loneliness
his childhood
warms him up
loneliness
he warms up to
his childhood
loneliness
childhood
his heaven
loneliness
his childhood
a repository of warmth
meditation
my heart on
a sea of sublimity
so lonely
a poem helps fill out
the emptiness
loneiness
the world
a graveyard
so lonely
i cheer up myself
writing a poem about loneliness
so lonely
i write a poem  to fill out
the emptiness
Sit in a chair
alone
People I thought were
friends
sit together but away from me.
Alone
I sit, wishing my
friends
would sit by me.
Alone
I get the urge to cry, for
friends
who don’t speak to strangers.
Alone
I sit, looking at the clock, seeing
friends
consider me as nothing.
Sit in a chair
alone
People I thought were
friends
sit together, but away from me.
Tell me why it has to be this way
why I must face this life alone
Sanctuaries I thought were strong
now lay crumbled around my kneeling form
tears that fall down my placid skin
hidden by the rain that falls from a broken sky
Behind blinded eyes I hear the echoes
of those I loved in days now past
taunting me and haunting me in the frozen air
Surrounding and slowly taking away a light forever dimmed
As lightning flashes I see the woman I was float away
leaving me withered and nothing more than an empty shell
as the ones I held dear one by one turn away from me
Tell me why it has to be this way
why I must face this life alone
condemed to walking in the blackness
until it finally consumes me and I fade to nothing.
A debtor to mercy alone, of covenant mercy I sing;
Nor fear, with Thy righteousness on, my person and off’ring to bring.
The terrors of law and of God with me can have nothing to do;
My Savior’s obedience and blood hide all my transgressions from view.
The work which His goodness began, the arm of His strength will complete;
His promise is Yea and Amen, and never was forfeited yet.
Things future, nor things that are now, nor all things below or above,
Can make Him His purpose forgo, or sever my soul from His love.
My name from the palms of His hands eternity will not erase;
Impressed on His heart it remains, in marks of indelible grace.
Yes, I to the end shall endure, as sure as the earnest is giv’n;
More happy, but not more secure, the glorified spirits in heav’n.
A year has been passed since I left home
Again my life become lonely in the military barracks
My life without you, left me with only tears
I know that you never want to see me in tears
But it's been so hard to be here without you
When I am away from you, there is part of me dying
and I don't know where to hide my tears
Although, the distance has kept us away
but your memories keep on speaks to me
Always, It tells me that our love is to be loved
No one makes me feel the way you do
No one loves me so much the way you love me
When I am stay at the door of your heart
then I feel your inside flames that's burns my soul
Oh my love, let God speed my love
and bring me again into your arms soon.
A heart breaks easier alone
When no one sees you crying
When no one notices at all
That inside you are dying
A heart breaks easier alone
When they all think you're crazy
That when you crawl back in your bed
The whole world thinks you're lazy
A heart breaks easier alone
And there's no way to mend it
To stop the heart from breaking more
You simply have to end it
A heart breaks easier alone
Without a love to heal it
And finally the breaking's done
When you no longer feel it
I.
Ah! wherefore by the Church-yard side,
Poor little LORN ONE, dost thou stray?
Thy wavy locks but thinly hide
The tears that dim thy blue-eye's ray;
And wherefore dost thou sigh, and moan,
And weep, that thou art left alone?
II.
Thou art not left alone, poor boy,
The Trav'ller stops to hear thy tale;
No heart, so hard, would thee annoy!
For tho' thy mother's cheek is pale
And withers under yon grave stone,
Thou art not, Urchin, left alone.
III.
I know thee well ! thy yellow hair
In silky waves I oft have seen;
Thy dimpled face, so fresh and fair,
Thy roguish smile, thy playful mien
Were all to me, poor Orphan, known,
Ere Fate had left thee--all alone!
IV.
Thy russet coat is scant, and torn,
Thy cheek is now grown deathly pale!
Thy eyes are dim, thy looks forlorn,
And bare thy bosom meets the gale;
And oft I hear thee deeply groan,
That thou, poor boy, art left alone.
V.
Thy naked feet are wounded sore
With thorns, that cross thy daily road;
The winter winds around thee roar,
The church-yard is thy bleak abode;
Thy pillow now, a cold grave stone--
And there thou lov'st to grieve--alone!
VI.
The rain has drench'd thee, all night long;
The nipping frost thy bosom froze;
And still, the yewtree-shades among,
I heard thee sigh thy artless woes;
I heard thee, till the day-star shone
In darkness weep--and weep alone!
VII.
Oft have I seen thee, little boy,
Upon thy lovely mother's knee;
For when she liv'd--thou wert her joy,
Though now a mourner thou must be!
For she lies low, where yon grave-stone
Proclaims, that thou art left alone.
VIII.
Weep, weep no more; on yonder hill
The village bells are ringing, gay;
The merry reed, and brawling rill
Call thee to rustic sports away.
Then wherefore weep, and sigh, and moan,
A truant from the throng--alone?
IX.
"I cannot the green hill ascend,
"I cannot pace the upland mead;
"I cannot in the vale attend,
"To hear the merry-sounding reed:
"For all is still, beneath yon stone,
"Where my poor mother's left alone!
X.
"I cannot gather gaudy flowers
"To dress the scene of revels loud--
"I cannot pass the ev'ning hours
"Among the noisy village croud--
"For, all in darkness, and alone
"My mother sleeps, beneath yon stone.
XI.
"See how the stars begin to gleam
"The sheep-dog barks, 'tis time to go;--
"The night-fly hums, the moonlight beam
"Peeps through the yew-tree's shadowy row--
"It falls upon the white grave-stone,
"Where my dear mother sleeps alone.--
XII.
"O stay me not, for I must go
"The upland path in haste to tread;
"For there the pale primroses grow
"They grow to dress my mother's bed.--
"They must, ere peep of day, be strown,
"Where she lies mould'ring all alone.
XIII.
"My father o'er the stormy sea
"To distant lands was borne away,
"And still my mother stay'd with me
"And wept by night and toil'd by day.
"And shall I ever quit the stone
"Where she is, left, to sleep alone.
XIV.
"My father died; and still I found
"My mother fond and kind to me;
"I felt her breast with rapture bound
"When first I prattled on her knee--
"And then she blest my infant tone
"And little thought of yon grave-stone.
XV.
"No more her gentle voice I hear,
"No more her smile of fondness see;
"Then wonder not I shed the tear
"She would have DIED, to follow me!
"And yet she sleeps beneath yon stone
"And I STILL LIVE--to weep alone.
XVI.
"The playful kid, she lov'd so well
"From yon high clift was seen to fall;
"I heard, afar, his tink'ling bell--
"Which seem'd in vain for aid to call--
"I heard the harmless suff'rer moan,
"And grieved that he was left alone.
XVII.
"Our faithful dog grew mad, and died,
"The lightning smote our cottage low--
"We had no resting-place beside
"And knew not whither we should go,--
"For we were poor,--and hearts of stone
"Will never throb at mis'ry's groan.
XVIII.
"My mother still surviv'd for me,
"She led me to the mountain's brow,
"She watch'd me, while at yonder tree
"I sat, and wove the ozier bough;
"And oft she cried, "fear not, MINE OWN!
"Thou shalt not, BOY, be left ALONE."
XXI.
"The blast blew strong, the torrent rose
"And bore our shatter'd cot away;
"And, where the clear brook swiftly flows--
"Upon the turf at dawn of day,
"When bright the sun's full lustre shone,
"I wander'd, FRIENDLESS--and ALONE!"
XX.
Thou art not, boy, for I have seen
Thy tiny footsteps print the dew,
And while the morning sky serene
Spread o'er the hill a yellow hue,
I heard thy sad and plaintive moan,
Beside the cold sepulchral stone.
XXI.
And when the summer noontide hours
With scorching rays the landscape spread,
I mark'd thee, weaving fragrant flow'rs
To deck thy mother's silent bed!
Nor, at the church-yard's simple stone,
Wert, thou, poor Urchin, left alone.
XXII.
I follow'd thee, along the dale
And up the woodland's shad'wy way:
I heard thee tell thy mournful tale
As slowly sunk the star of day:
Nor, when its twinkling light had flown,
Wert thou a wand'rer, all alone.
XXIII.
"O! yes, I was! and still shall be
"A wand'rer, mourning and forlorn;
"For what is all the world to me--
"What are the dews and buds of morn?
"Since she, who left me sad, alone
"In darkness sleeps, beneath yon stone!
XXIV.
"No brother's tear shall fall for me,
"For I no brother ever knew;
"No friend shall weep my destiny
"For friends are scarce, and tears are few;
"None do I see, save on this stone
"Where I will stay, and weep alone!
XXV.
"My Father never will return,
"He rests beneath the sea-green wave;
"I have no kindred left, to mourn
"When I am hid in yonder grave!
"Not one ! to dress with flow'rs the stone;--
"Then--surely , I AM LEFT ALONE!"
Sitting all alone in a boxed room
looking at the walls locking in on me
looking like they are about to fall in and 'BOOM'
wondering what my life is going to be.
thinking to myself should i take that step out of the door
or maybe just sit here and cry for myself
'but what is there to life for' i should just lay here on this cold floor
i can't even call for help because i am all by myslef.: (
SO many crosses,
so little hope, so many
puppets, praying for
some thing they dont
even believe in.where
is your devels, where are
your saints, where is your
GOD, when you fill your
body with drink, so many
crosses, so little faith,
so many puppets, waiting
for....what?
When I'm talking to you,
I am never alone.
You are there. Your voice,
My sanity.
Then, you are gone,
Leaving me in a terrifying silent darkness.
When you are gone, no matter who may be around me,
I am alone again.
-
He was writing his sermon.
He'd locked his room.
He wanted none to break his thoughts.
No one would ever disturb him.
He was alone, alone, alone.
He was fixing his false teeth,
behind closed doors.
He wanted none to peep in on his secret.
No one would want to know if he had teeth.
He was alone, alone, alone.
He was counting his coins,
in the darkness of his shabby hut.
He wanted none to know his wealth.
No one wanted his meager sum.
He was alone, alone, alone.
You and I are all like them,
locked behind our own doors,
not wanting to be pried into.
Not knowing how isolated we are.
We are just alone, alone, alone.
Alone in the dark room
No one cares about me
so Lonely that i don`t find one to say ' hey '
No one can understand my feelings, my pain
No one can satisfy my soul
My soul covered with Darkness
empty with the precious values
full of the nothingness of the world
the estrangement forms a pic, a wired pic
No one can see, except me
so frightened this world
trying to escape from the pic
no hope to make it a way
following me as myself
Have one aim is to kill
decide to stop running
to find away to hide
New feeling i got to release
For the first time iam ready for the fight
But, it`s not important who will win
What really matters that ' i tried to prove myself '
Im nothing without
you Im dead inside
I cant move on
I know cuz I've tried
You threw me out the door
Im a lost soul forever moor
These are my tears
My tears of pain
with out you my
world is constant rain
Love is a lie theres nosuch thing
all it is is a firey black ring
You have lied to me but worse
you've played with my heart
You tried explain just please
dont even start
You said you loved me
you said you cared
how could you dismiss
everything we shared
So the damage is done
and all you did was run
I will never love anyone but you
That day rain came and the wind just blew
When I saw you my heart was sold
but now I sit all alone and cold.
Amongst the flowers I
am alone with my pot of wine
drinking by myself; then lifting
my cup I asked the moon
to drink with me, its reflection
and mine in the wine cup, just
the three of us; then I sigh
for the moon cannot drink,
and my shadow goes emptily along
with me never saying a word;
with no other friends here, I can
but use these two for company;
in the time of happiness, I
too must be happy with all
around me; I sit and sing
and it is as if the moon
accompanies me; then if I
dance, it is my shadow that
dances along with me; while
still not drunk, I am glad
to make the moon and my shadow
into friends, but then when
I have drunk too much, we
all part; yet these are
friends I can always count on
these who have no emotion
whatsoever; I hope that one day
we three will meet again,
deep in the Milky Way.
A friend I possess, whose whispers just said,
"God's peace!" to my night-watching mind.
When daylight is gone and darkness brings dread,
He ever the way can find.
He utters no word to smite and to score;
He, too, has known sin and its grief.
He heals with his look the place that is sore,
And stays till I have relief.
He takes for his own the deed that is such
That sorrows of heart increase.
He cleanses the wound with so gentle a touch,
The pain must give way to peace.
He followed each hope the heights that would scale
Reproached not a hapless descent.
He stands here just now, so mild, but so pale;
In time he shall know what it meant.
Alone iam alone in alone island
Alone mew on alone palm tree in alone island
Alone shark surrounding alone island
Alone boat far away from alone island
Alone iam dying alone in alone island
Alone iam alone in alone island
298
Alone, I cannot be—
For Hosts—do visit me—
Recordless Company—
Who baffle Key—
They have no Robes, nor Names—
No Almanacs—nor Climes—
But general Homes
Like Gnomes—
Their Coming, may be known
By Couriers within—
Their going—is not—
For they've never gone—
Once there stood a castle,
With towers so tall of stone,
So strong and white
Glowing like ivory bone
In the castle lived a princess
So lovely and so kind
Many times she dreamt of him
The prince she'd someday find
When the time finally came
And they stood side by side
Her heart sang with beautiful feelings
That time could not abide
They spent all their time together
Until summer came to an end
He then kissed her and departed
Disappearing into the wind
At nights she stood and waited
But never once did he return
Her head was bent with sorrow
Her eyes swollen from tears
For she knew he would not return tomorrow
And she would be alone for all her years
She thought she had given him her heart
For what they shared was special and true
But when sorrow came he left her
For he knew nothing else to do
The princess had nothing left to hang onto
No tiny thread of hope
She had no one left to turn to
And no one to help her cope
She went to the places they had been
Yet it was not the same without him
The flowers no longer cheered her
And the bright sun had become dim
He hadn't meant to hurt her
But the princess was lost in her own woe
All she felt was betrayal
In knowing he had to go
But with time she came to realize
He did what he had to do
Although her pain was horrible
He felt that pain, too.
The two had shared so much
They had given all they had
And knowing it was truly over
Oh, how it made the princess sad
She hadn't thought she would truly lose him
No matter how bad it may have been
They were more than in love
He had been her one and only friend
One night she found a message
Scrawled on the castle wall.
It said only, 'I love you, '
And the princess's tears began to fall.
She knew she'd always miss him;
He'd remain forever in her heart,
And even if they weren't together,
They'd never truly be apart....
I walked alone
In Ann Arbor last night,
But you were
With me again on South Main
Among the college kids,
The restaurants and book stores,
Everyone moving around,
The folk music
Coming from the Ark;
Sweet Lady, you’ve won my heart,
Even though we continue to linger
So painfully apart.
Alone in crowds to wander on,
And feel that all the charm is gone
Which voices dear and eyes beloved
Shed round us once, where'er we roved --
This, this the doom must be
Of all who've loved, and loved to see
The few bright things they thought would stay
For ever near them, die away.
Though fairer forms around us throng,
Their smiles to others all belong,
And want that charm which dwells alone
Round those the fond heart calls its own,
Where, where the sunny brow?
The long-known voice -- where are they now?
Thus ask I still, nor ask in vain,
The silence answers all too plain.
Oh, what is Fancy's magic worth,
If all her art cannot call forth
One bliss like those we felt of old
From lips now mute, and eyes now cold?
No, no -- her spell in vain --
As soon could she bring back again
Those eyes themselves from out the grave,
As wake again one bliss they gave.
the clouds cover my heart,
I am alone in hospital,
nurses coming and out,
I feel I am alone.
Even nurses here and there,
I am out of the world,
sad and pain hit my face,
how bad to be alone.
The doctor whispered to me,
be brave, don, t afraid,
tomorrow will be better,
be strong as a stone.
My mind had been ruined,
i can, t thinking at all,
the sky seems hazy,
how sad to be alone.
........
Seconds seem ages;
the day a thousand year,
the fear inside my body,
told me, you are alone.
Suddenly I saw a shade,
could that be my wife?
Could sons come to see,
how sad I am alone.
The shade became too close,
O, God they are my sons,
my love is coming with them,
how bad I was alone.
By love they covered my sky,
by love returned my soul,
their love grant me the strength,
in front of being alone.
Tomorrow will repair my heart,
tomorrow is a biggest day,
even if I died that day.
By love I am not alone.
alone in my darknees
i was alone...
alone i live in my darkness..
no one share me..
no one considerated my feelings..
i was a human without sense...
without loving....
and i was without heart....
i wasn`t saw in my darknees, only myself..
and my blackest dark..
suddenly.. a light came to me from a far way..
yes, its come and be near and close to me..
its come and its lights my darkness..
its let me to see around me..
its knowing me who was near me...
then i became not alone
i am with others..
became a human shared in feelings with others..
i became a human with a feelings..
with a loving....
and i was with a heart....
suddenly agian, a lights wants to go...
after its lights my darkness..
and after its make my heart a white..
no, no, don`t let my heart become agian blackest..
and don`t let me be agian alone...
plz don`t do.....
I was walking alone in my forest one day,
Sleeping awake I went on my way,
And as I lookeed up the sun caught my face,
And my tears fell down in ribbons of lace.
The trees were entwined in the sky locked above,
In an extraordinary symbol of beautiful love,
And I walked all alone in my little wood,
And everything seemed just like it should,
Shafts of light stabbed all around,
Extending their arms straight to the ground,
Serene and peaceful the air hung in cloud,
Enveloping me in a wonderfull shrowd.
And all of this lay before me at hand,
Unfortunately though, no matter how grand
It all was a dream, it all was a fake,
Something I could never see awake.
I was walking alone in my forest one day,
Sleeping awake I went on my way,
And as I lookeed up the sun caught my face,
And my tears fell down in ribbons of lace.
I know a seraph who has golden eyes,
And hair of gold, and body like the snow.
Here in the wind I dream her unbound hair
Is blowing round me, that desire's sweet glow
Has touched her pale keen face, and willful mien.
And though she steps as one in manner born
To tread the forests of fair Paradise,
Dark memory's wood she chooses to adorn.
Here with bowed head, bashful with half-desire
She glides into my yesterday's deep dream,
All glowing by the misty ferny cliff
Beside the far forbidden thundering stream.
Within my dream I shake with the old flood.
I fear its going, ere the spring days go.
Yet pray the glory may have deathless years,
And kiss her hair, and sweet throat like the snow.
Alone in the woods I felt
The bitter hostility of the sky and the trees
Nature has taught her creatures to hate
Man that fusses and fumes
Unquiet man
As the sap rises in the trees
As the sap paints the trees a violent green
So rises the wrath of Nature's creatures
At man
So paints the face of Nature a violent green.
Nature is sick at man
Sick at his fuss and fume
Sick at his agonies
Sick at his gaudy mind
That drives his body
Ever more quickly
More and more
In the wrong direction.
perhaps im done.
with this world,
with this moment of my life.
my story is undone.
twisted and not fun.
mixed up in lies and crys.
you shall never see the real me inside.
i shall protect myself from any harm to be done.
no more, for i shall stand and be the only one.
ill start building my walls,
no gaps, no holes no nothing.
just me and these walls,
i will close myself off from the world.
its for the best i shall say.
its for the best.
babe, just know i love you so.
i just gotta let you go.
i guess, our time is not now.
maybe im just foolish and shouldn't have let you out
babe, you amazing.
lord, help her find true love, for i cant give that to her.
my lord, help her have strength and guide her to a good place.
lord, help all those lost souls, for they need more help then i.
i will survive.
with these walls i will.
i just need to be alone.
Common interests brought us together,
Conversations on which we could agree.
There has never been enough trust to discuss
Issues in which we'd disagree.
Our hearts don't have the magic connection
That allow our brains to share the same waves.
Cupid has not struck us with his arrows,
To each other's soul we are not slaves.
We occupy the same space, living in orbit.
Our eyes meet across silence the size of an ocean,
And while our intentions are in the right place,
Fear is the source of our eternal devotion.
You don't know how much I need you.
I don't know why I expect you to read my mind.
It is amazingly easy to feel alone in your arms;
The mystery is why romance is so hard to find.
'So round, so firm
So fully packed,
So free and easy.
(Well maybe not.)
The product regulated by both
The Food and Drug Administration
And the Department of Agriculture,
Is sold to anyone who can ante up the buck or so,
And it's addictive, just ask someone who knows.
The flip top package invites you in
And from there on, you're on your own.
Appearances are everything and
Madison Avenue has gone out of its way
To entice the unsuspecting to buy not
One but two or more.
Then there's the matter of the food companies
Actually being in this business,
Peddling taste, while ignoring
Additives that may get you in the end.
For those who are discerning,
The manufacturer offers different varieties.
So that if you tire of one,
Or perhaps are just adventuresome
You can choose.
Once hooked, there should always be a stash
Hidden somewhere for that moment when the pangs
Strike and shops are closed, and a long night
Awaits before the morn.
The parent company is one perhaps you recognize,
Kraft, Conagra, Tyson's, Smuckers,
No, not any of these but still
A name familiar in most households.
So in the privacy of your home,
Reach way back, behind all the other items
And choose that which for the moment
Promises to sate your lust.
Best to keep it to yourself
As some may make fun of you for
Being so entrapped in a web
From which there is no escape.
Your offer to share
Will go unappreciated and
You may suffer rejection
For simply trying to do a good deed,
Spreading the word,
Making the product more acceptable
To those that scorn something
That has been a pacifier
For generations.
But first let's consider the shortcomings
That which is so long and cool
Is spiced with flavorings and of course
Like all tobacco products has a fair amount of sugar
Either there originally or added for quality assurance.
Quality Assurance, Sure!
Pop the top and admire the way in which
Industry has met the challenge of putting the most
Of those buggers into an orderly display.
No space wasted here.
And the march of color across the tops
Of those you lust for,
Is enough to cause one to consider dumping
The whole of them on the counter so you can
Have your way with them.
But wait,
Place you nose up close
Close your eyes.
What aroma stirs the emotions?
Breath deeply
And exhale slowly
This is how it should be.
Ah! ! !
Now greedily take one and
Roll it between the thumb and forefinger.
Examine it carefully,
Caress it with you lips,
Let the tongue explore.
Aren't you glad you're alone
No one should share the
Ecstacy of the unknown.
The touch and the taste.
It's too late,
Emotions take control
The first is gone and
You are already reaching for another.
Before you know,
The pack is empty
And yet you are not satisfied,
What to do but open another,
Can of Hormel Vienna Sausages.
All the birds have flown up and gone;
A lonely cloud floats leisurely by.
We never tire of looking at each other -
Only the mountain and I.
The sorrow of riverside blossoms inexplicable,
And nowhere to complain -- I've gone half crazy.
I look up our southern neighbor. But my friend in wine
Gone ten days drinking. I find only an empty bed.
A thick frenzy of blossoms shrouding the riverside,
I stroll, listing dangerously, in full fear of spring.
Poems, wine -- even this profusely driven, I endure.
Arrangements for this old, white-haired man can wait.
A deep river, two or three houses in bamboo quiet,
And such goings on: red blossoms glaring with white!
Among spring's vociferous glories, I too have my place:
With a lovely wine, bidding life's affairs bon voyage.
Looking east to Shao, its smoke filled with blossoms,
I admire that stately Po-hua wineshop even more.
To empty golden wine cups, calling such beautiful
Dancing girls to embroidered mats -- who could bear it?
East of the river, before Abbot Huang's grave,
Spring is a frail splendor among gentle breezes.
In this crush of peach blossoms opening ownerless,
Shall I treasure light reds, or treasure them dark?
At Madame Huang's house, blossoms fill the paths:
Thousands, tens of thousands haul the branches down.
And butterflies linger playfully -- an unbroken
Dance floating to songs orioles sing at their ease.
I don't so love blossoms I want to die. I'm afraid,
Once they are gone, of old age still more impetuous.
And they scatter gladly, by the branchful. Let's talk
Things over, little buds ---open delicately, sparingly.
Alone...at birth
Alone...at death
Not alone...in the afterlife
oh, , sadness...
your circle killing me..
and your memories waves flooded me..
my life is a sky without lights..
where is your yelling o happiness..? ? ?
and in which wilderness, can i found you..? ? ?
i am a star without sense...
i am a candy without taste..
and here alone in that beach....
Alone i lay on a wooden raft
Alone i stay in the dark
Alone i pray to survive
Alone i may not survive
Alone i look out the sea
Alone i wake up on the sea
Alone i seek out for help
Alone i may not survive
Alone i eat my dry food
Alone i drink the salty water
Alone i sit in the cold
Alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i stare at the storm
Alone, yes, alone i live on the sea
Alone, yes, alone i wait for the rescue boat
Alone, yes, alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i pray to be safe
Alone, yes, alone i call out for help
Alone, yes, alone i get on the boat
Alone, yes, alone i was rescued
Alone, yes, alone i lived on sea for months
Alone, yes, alone i walk ashore unaided
Alone, yes, alone i continue to hold the
Guinness World Record for survival at sea
In contact, lo! the flint and steel,
By sharp and flame, the thought reveal
That he the metal, she the stone,
Had cherished secretly alone.
Alone I drift away,
Alone I walk a thousand miles,
Alone I fall asleep,
Alone I stare at the sky,
Alone I sit under a tree,
Alone I cry.
Alone I dream of you,
Alone I hope and pray,
to God who is oh so merciful and powerful
to let me find my way.
Alone I drift away,
Alone I live today,
and alone I'll die someday.
My friends.
Where are you?
I want you.
I need you.
I want to say
Something.
When you ask what’s wrong, I say
Nothing.
When you turn away, I whisper
Everything.
Over the fence, the dead settle in
for a journey. Nine o'clock.
You are alone for the first time
today. Boys asleep. Husband out.
A beer bottle sweats in your hand,
and sea lavender clogs the air
with perfume. Think of yourself.
Your arms rest with nothing to do
after weeks spent attending to others.
Your thoughts turn to whether
butter will last the week, how much
longer the car can run on its partial tank of gas.
Surrounded by people
But so all alone
Feeling so lonely
No place to call home
Does he love me
When he is so cold
Do I have purpose
Shall I let this go on
I have no purpose
I am totally numb
To think he loved me
I was totally dumb
Love doesn't exist
In this house anyway
Home is where the heart is
And I have none!
From childhood's hour I have not been
As others were; I have not seen
As others saw; I could not bring
My passions from a common spring.
From the same source I have not taken
My sorrow; I could not awaken
My heart to joy at the same tone;
And all I loved, I loved alone.
Then- in my childhood, in the dawn
Of a most stormy life- was drawn
From every depth of good and ill
The mystery which binds me still:
From the torrent, or the fountain,
From the red cliff of the mountain,
From the sun that round me rolled
In its autumn tint of gold,
From the lightning in the sky
As it passed me flying by,
From the thunder and the storm,
And the cloud that took the form
(When the rest of Heaven was blue)
Of a demon in my view.
The noon's greygolden meshes make
All night a veil,
The shorelamps in the sleeping lake
Laburnum tendrils trail.
The sly reeds whisper to the night
A name-- her name-
And all my soul is a delight,
A swoon of shame.
The day Caleb died
I was all alone
Lying in a hospital bed
So white and cold
Bleeding
Though I was all alone
The day Caleb died
I was all alone
Praying for someone to come
Watching the door
Hoping and praying
But I was all alone
The day Caleb died
I was all alone
I almost died too
Yet no one was around
And there was no one to hold
For I was all alone
The day Caleb died
I was all alone
I prayed for God to take me, too
But I didn't go
I prayed for someone to hold
But I was all alone
Alone in the world of writs
I stand alone
To mockery because my shoes are worn,
My suit torn.
Alone,
Because I refused to invest my time
In vanity of men’s wealth
The relentless treadmill of materialism.
The infinity of human thoughts are vital to me
While friends and colleagues
Constant in the mad rush for avarice
Alone,
When I speak against societal ills
Paid writers mock at me
And call me ‘fool’!
My mind, preaching constant messages of irrelevances
Because I will die a writer.
No money,
No friends,
No foe.
Alone,
When intelligent comrades backslide
into a reverse and praising of societal tyranny.
Alone,
When vanity of fame and temporal gain
Reduce men of honour
To a  loose dissolved state of lies.
Alone,
When the courage for truth
Falls to a beggarly withdrawal for fear
Alone,
When mass comrades reduce intelligence
To cheap Trade by Bata.
Alone,
When moneybags employ friends
In the service of sly.
Alone,
When kings and kingdom
Turn greater minds to lesser scribe.
Alone,
When hunger, pain, loneliness
Stare in the face
For uncommon stance.
Alone,
Let lies increase
Vanity multiply
Comrades compromise
Hunger kill
Clothes burnt
Impoverished me be
With no friends
No follower
And in the grave
Just like I came,
Alone, Alone.
Day by day, I wake alone, in a cold and empty bed,
Day by day, thoughts of you, keep running through my head.
I wake and wish this day would be the one I see your smile
I sit and wait to see your face, I'm living in denial.
Because I know that there's no way that I'll see you today,
And as the sun begins to set, my hopes will slip away.
As darkness covers this cruel world, my heart grows darker too,
And I will whisper to the night how much I long for you.
The stars begin to twinkle, lighting up the sky above,
But the only light I long to see is the light of your love.
I pray tomorrow is that day that I'm holding you tight,
As in my cold and empty bed, I stare alone into the night.
Lying, thinking
Last night
How to find my soul a home
Where water is not thirsty
And bread loaf is not stone
I came up with one thing
And I don't believe I'm wrong
That nobody,
But nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Alone, all alone
Nobody, but nobody
Can make it out here alone.
There are some millionaires
With money they can't use
Their wives run round like banshees
Their children sing the blues
They've got expensive doctors
To cure their hearts of stone.
But nobody
No, nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Alone, all alone
Nobody, but nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Now if you listen closely
I'll tell you what I know
Storm clouds are gathering
The wind is gonna blow
The race of man is suffering
And I can hear the moan,
'Cause nobody,
But nobody
Can make it out here alone.
Alone, all alone
Nobody, but nobody
Can make it out here alone.
alone
yes I am
alone i will be
give it time you will see
i drink alone
i sleep alone
i walk alone too
when you give up on me
i know what to do
i slice and I dice
i cut me to shreds
alone i tell i am
alone i am
What is the difference in being all alone over here by my self
Or all alone over there with people who don’t care
And could careless if I was there with them
Watching
Waiting
Not being spoken too
Waiting for the right moment to speak
Sneak a peak of what its like on the inside
I am all alone where ever I go
Whether I am alone in a room full of people
Or an empty field all by my self
I feel the feeling of wanting
Need and striving to be with you
With someone
Anyone at all
But I can’t
I am all ways alone
In the cold
On my own
Whether it be in a crowed room
Or in a field all of my own
I am all alone
What is the true difference between being alone on my own
Or with people who don’t care
It doesn’t matter anyways
Why make a false invite and
Try to be polite
When you just turn me away
I am alone whether it be in a room crowded with people
Or alone in an empty field
With no one around to hear me scream and bleed and cry
What really is the difference between
Being alone with a crowd of people who don’t care
And being all alone over there.
Alone on a bench to cry
All alone, no one here
Not even a soul is 5ft near
A 4 player game being played by one
And it is actually kinda fun
'I pick up my life and take it on a one way ticket
Wherever I go it's my path so I'll pick it'
Sitting here alone, by the windowsill
But the air is bored, it must be filled
One comes in, then comes three
They have all come to join me
But I was happy didn't own a bored bone
I was happy when I was alone
I am alone, in spite of love,
In spite of all I take and give—
In spite of all your tenderness,
Sometimes I am not glad to live.
I am alone, as though I stood
On the highest peak of the tired gray world,
About me only swirling snow,
Above me, endless space unfurled;
With earth hidden and heaven hidden,
And only my own spirit's pride
To keep me from the peace of those
Who are not lonely, having died.
I’ve listened: and all the sounds I heard
Were music,—wind, and stream, and bird.
With youth who sang from hill to hill
I’ve listened: my heart is hungry still.
I’ve looked: the morning world was green;
Bright roofs and towers of town I’ve seen;
And stars, wheeling through wingless night.
I’ve looked: and my soul yet longs for light.
I’ve thought: but in my sense survives
Only the impulse of those lives
That were my making. Hear me say
‘I’ve thought!’—and darkness hides my day.
The abode of the nightingale is bare,
Flowered frost congeals in the gelid air,
The fox howls from his frozen lair:
Alas, my loved one is gone,
I am alone:
It is winter.
Once the pink cast a winy smell,
The wild bee hung in the hyacinth bell,
Light in effulgence of beauty fell:
I am alone:
It is winter.
My candle a silent fire doth shed,
Starry Orion hunts o'erhead;
Come moth, come shadow, the world is dead:
Alas, my loved one is gone,
I am alone;
It is winter.
I, one who never speaks,
Listened days in summer trees,
Each day a rustling leaf.
Then, in time, my unbelief
Grew like my running -
My own eyes did not exist,
When I struck I never missed.
Noon, felt and far away -
My brain is a thousand bees.
I hang my head in my burning palms,
tears sting against my soul, searching
for the calm. Heartaches like never
before, broken, so lonely and torn.
Never to see the light, no tunnel to
be seen, sitting here alone, within my
silent screams. No hand to reach for, no
one to hold me close, I have never
felt so alone.
No one to pull me to safety, no one to
turn to, just broken hearted, searching
for life anew. No embrace, just tears
that fall down my face.
No guarantees on life or love, nothing
but dark clouds linger above. The world
tightens her grip with every breath I take,
making the next step impossible to take.
Alone in a world, the void is here, taking
over my being, taking my life, but in this
void I lose the strife. Haunting thoughts
consume me, just looking through these
tears, just wanting to be free.
the flesh covers the bone
and they put a mind
in there and
sometimes a soul,
and the women break
vases against the walls
and the men drink too
much
and nobody finds the
one
but keep
looking
crawling in and out
of beds.
flesh covers
the bone and the
flesh searches
for more than
flesh.
there's no chance
at all:
we are all trapped
by a singular
fate.
nobody ever finds
the one.
the city dumps fill
the junkyards fill
the madhouses fill
the hospitals fill
the graveyards fill
nothing else
fills.
Anonymous submission.
And I was alone with my thoughts.
Memories swirl in a unison of faith.
Change has been inevitably declined.
Passion bleeds from walls glittered gold.
And I was alone with my thoughts.
Recipe for destruction gilded on the page.
A gift purely given like forgotten trash.
Forever has no distinction beyond now.
And I was alone with my thoughts.
Authority is a prodigy of laziness.
Wealth measured by free-flowing barriers.
Sensuality is a brand no longer tangible.
And I was alone with my thoughts.
Swinging on a broken rope of promise.
The puddle is full of cracks.
Feminine impression embedded on the seat.
And I was alone with my thoughts.
Glistening prisms of a generation forgotten.
Barriers instilled on a broken mirror.
Reflections stagnant with happenstance.
And I was alone.
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
As she sits alone on the hillside watching the sunrise
Silence is golden, movement is absent
Upon the grassy fields she sees shadowing darkness
The freshness in the air surrounds her intensely
Silence is golden,  movement is absent
Dawn breaks, the skies come alive
The freshness in the air surrounds her intensely
Birds flutter freely tweetering 'good morning'
Dawn breaks, the skies come alive
Upon the grassy fields she sees shadowing darkness
Birds flutter freely tweetering 'good morning'
As she sits alone on the hillside watching the sunrise
AS I sat alone, by blue Ontario's shore,
As I mused of these mighty days, and of peace return'd, and the dead
that return no more,
A Phantom, gigantic, superb, with stern visage, accosted me;
Chant me the poem, it said, that comes from the soul of America--
chant me the carol of victory;
And strike up the marches of Libertad--marches more powerful yet;
And sing me before you go, the song of the throes of Democracy.
(Democracy--the destin'd conqueror--yet treacherous lip-smiles
everywhere,
And Death and infidelity at every step.)
A Nation announcing itself,
I myself make the only growth by which I can be appreciated,       10
I reject none, accept all, then reproduce all in my own forms.
A breed whose proof is in time and deeds;
What we are, we are--nativity is answer enough to objections;
We wield ourselves as a weapon is wielded,
We are powerful and tremendous in ourselves,
We are executive in ourselves--We are sufficient in the variety of
ourselves,
We are the most beautiful to ourselves, and in ourselves;
We stand self-pois'd in the middle, branching thence over the world;
From Missouri, Nebraska, or Kansas, laughing attacks to scorn.
Nothing is sinful to us outside of ourselves,                      20
Whatever appears, whatever does not appear, we are beautiful or
sinful in ourselves only.
(O mother! O sisters dear!
If we are lost, no victor else has destroy'd us;
It is by ourselves we go down to eternal night.)
Have you thought there could be but a single Supreme?
There can be any number of Supremes--One does not countervail
another, any more than one eyesight countervails another, or
one life countervails another.
All is eligible to all,
All is for individuals--All is for you,
No condition is prohibited--not God's, or any.
All comes by the body--only health puts you rapport with the
universe.                                                    30
Produce great persons, the rest follows.
America isolated I sing;
I say that works made here in the spirit of other lands, are so much
poison in The States.
(How dare such insects as we see assume to write poems for America?
For our victorious armies, and the offspring following the armies?)
Piety and conformity to them that like!
Peace, obesity, allegiance, to them that like!
I am he who tauntingly compels men, women, nations,
Crying, Leap from your seats, and contend for your lives!
I am he who walks the States with a barb'd tongue, questioning every
one I meet;                                                  40
Who are you, that wanted only to be told what you knew before?
Who are you, that wanted only a book to join you in your nonsense?
(With pangs and cries, as thine own, O bearer of many children!
These clamors wild, to a race of pride I give.)
O lands! would you be freer than all that has ever been before?
If you would be freer than all that has been before, come listen to
me.
Fear grace--Fear elegance, civilization, delicatesse,
Fear the mellow sweet, the sucking of honey-juice;
Beware the advancing mortal ripening of nature,
Beware what precedes the decay of the ruggedness of states and
men.                                                         50
Ages, precedents, have long been accumulating undirected materials,
America brings builders, and brings its own styles.
The immortal poets of Asia and Europe have done their work, and
pass'd to other spheres,
A work remains, the work of surpassing all they have done.
America, curious toward foreign characters, stands by its own at all
hazards,
Stands removed, spacious, composite, sound--initiates the true use of
precedents,
Does not repel them, or the past, or what they have produced under
their forms,
Takes the lesson with calmness, perceives the corpse slowly borne
from the house,
Perceives that it waits a little while in the door--that it was
fittest for its days,
That its life has descended to the stalwart and well-shaped heir who
approaches,                                                  60
And that he shall be fittest for his days.
Any period, one nation must lead,
One land must be the promise and reliance of the future.
These States are the amplest poem,
Here is not merely a nation, but a teeming nation of nations,
Here the doings of men correspond with the broadcast doings of the
day and night,
Here is what moves in magnificent masses, careless of particulars,
Here are the roughs, beards, friendliness, combativeness, the Soul
loves,
Here the flowing trains--here the crowds, equality, diversity, the
Soul loves.
Land of lands, and bards to corroborate!                           70
Of them, standing among them, one lifts to the light his west-bred
face,
To him the hereditary countenance bequeath'd, both mother's and
father's,
His first parts substances, earth, water, animals, trees,
Built of the common stock, having room for far and near,
Used to dispense with other lands, incarnating this land,
Attracting it Body and Soul to himself, hanging on its neck with
incomparable love,
Plunging his seminal muscle into its merits and demerits,
Making its cities, beginnings, events, diversities, wars, vocal in
him,
Making its rivers, lakes, bays, embouchure in him,
Mississippi with yearly freshets and changing chutes--Columbia,
Niagara, Hudson, spending themselves lovingly in him,        80
If the Atlantic coast stretch, or the Pacific coast stretch, he
stretching with them north or south,
Spanning between them, east and west, and touching whatever is
between them,
Growths growing from him to offset the growth of pine, cedar,
hemlock, live-oak, locust, chestnut, hickory, cottonwood,
orange, magnolia,
Tangles as tangled in him as any cane-brake or swamp,
He likening sides and peaks of mountains, forests coated with
northern transparent ice,
Off him pasturage, sweet and natural as savanna, upland, prairie,
Through him flights, whirls, screams, answering those of the fish-
hawk, mocking-bird, night-heron, and eagle;
His spirit surrounding his country's spirit, unclosed to good and
evil,
Surrounding the essences of real things, old times and present times,
Surrounding just found shores, islands, tribes of red aborigines,  90
Weather-beaten vessels, landings, settlements, embryo stature and
muscle,
The haughty defiance of the Year 1--war, peace, the formation of the
Constitution,
The separate States, the simple, elastic scheme, the immigrants,
The Union, always swarming with blatherers, and always sure and
impregnable,
The unsurvey'd interior, log-houses, clearings, wild animals,
hunters, trappers;
Surrounding the multiform agriculture, mines, temperature, the
gestation of new States,
Congress convening every Twelfth-month, the members duly coming up
from the uttermost parts;
Surrounding the noble character of mechanics and farmers, especially
the young men,
Responding their manners, speech, dress, friendships--the gait they
have of persons who never knew how it felt to stand in the
presence of superiors,
The freshness and candor of their physiognomy, the copiousness and
decision of their phrenology,                               100
The picturesque looseness of their carriage, their fierceness when
wrong'd,
The fluency of their speech, their delight in music, their curiosity,
good temper, and open-handedness--the whole composite make,
The prevailing ardor and enterprise, the large amativeness,
The perfect equality of the female with the male, the fluid movement
of the population,
The superior marine, free commerce, fisheries, whaling, gold-digging,
Wharf-hemm'd cities, railroad and steamboat lines, intersecting all
points,
Factories, mercantile life, labor-saving machinery, the north-east,
north-west, south-west,
Manhattan firemen, the Yankee swap, southern plantation life,
Slavery--the murderous, treacherous conspiracy to raise it upon the
ruins of all the rest;
On and on to the grapple with it--Assassin! then your life or ours be
the stake--and respite no more.                             110
(Lo! high toward heaven, this day,
Libertad! from the conqueress' field return'd,
I mark the new aureola around your head;
No more of soft astral, but dazzling and fierce,
With war's flames, and the lambent lightnings playing,
And your port immovable where you stand;
With still the inextinguishable glance, and the clench'd and lifted
fist,
And your foot on the neck of the menacing one, the scorner, utterly
crush'd beneath you;
The menacing, arrogant one, that strode and advanced with his
senseless scorn, bearing the murderous knife;
--Lo! the wide swelling one, the braggart, that would yesterday do so
much!                                                       120
To-day a carrion dead and damn'd, the despised of all the earth!
An offal rank, to the dunghill maggots spurn'd.)
Others take finish, but the Republic is ever constructive, and ever
keeps vista;
Others adorn the past--but you, O days of the present, I adorn you!
O days of the future, I believe in you! I isolate myself for your
sake;
O America, because you build for mankind, I build for you!
O well-beloved stone-cutters! I lead them who plan with decision and
science,
I lead the present with friendly hand toward the future.
Bravas to all impulses sending sane children to the next age!
But damn that which spends itself, with no thought of the stain,
pains, dismay, feebleness it is bequeathing.                130
I listened to the Phantom by Ontario's shore,
I heard the voice arising, demanding bards;
By them, all native and grand--by them alone can The States be fused
into the compact organism of a Nation.
To hold men together by paper and seal, or by compulsion, is no
account;
That only holds men together which aggregates all in a living
principle, as the hold of the limbs of the body, or the fibres
of plants.
Of all races and eras, These States, with veins full of poetical
stuff, most need poets, and are to have the greatest, and use
them the greatest;
Their Presidents shall not be their common referee so much as their
poets shall.
(Soul of love, and tongue of fire!
Eye to pierce the deepest deeps, and sweep the world!
--Ah, mother! prolific and full in all besides--yet how long barren,
barren?)                                                    140
Of These States, the poet is the equable man,
Not in him, but off from him, things are grotesque, eccentric, fail
of their full returns,
Nothing out of its place is good, nothing in its place is bad,
He bestows on every object or quality its fit proportion, neither
more nor less,
He is the arbiter of the diverse, he is the key,
He is the equalizer of his age and land,
He supplies what wants supplying--he checks what wants checking,
In peace, out of him speaks the spirit of peace, large, rich,
thrifty, building populous towns, encouraging agriculture,
arts, commerce, lighting the study of man, the Soul, health,
immortality, government;
In war, he is the best backer of the war--he fetches artillery as
good as the engineer's--he can make every word he speaks draw
blood;
The years straying toward infidelity, he withholds by his steady
faith,                                                      150
He is no argurer, he is judgment--(Nature accepts him absolutely;)
He judges not as the judge judges, but as the sun falling round a
helpless thing;
As he sees the farthest, he has the most faith,
His thoughts are the hymns of the praise of things,
In the dispute on God and eternity he is silent,
He sees eternity less like a play with a prologue and denouement,
He sees eternity in men and women--he does not see men and women as
dreams or dots.
For the great Idea, the idea of perfect and free individuals,
For that idea the bard walks in advance, leader of leaders,
The attitude of him cheers up slaves and horrifies foreign
despots.                                                    160
Without extinction is Liberty! without retrograde is Equality!
They live in the feelings of young men, and the best women;
Not for nothing have the indomitable heads of the earth been always
ready to fall for Liberty.
For the great Idea!
That, O my brethren--that is the mission of Poets.
Songs of stern defiance, ever ready,
Songs of the rapid arming, and the march,
The flag of peace quick-folded, and instead, the flag we know,
Warlike flag of the great Idea.
(Angry cloth I saw there leaping!                                 170
I stand again in leaden rain, your flapping folds saluting;
I sing you over all, flying, beckoning through the fight--O the hard-
contested fight!
O the cannons ope their rosy-flashing muzzles! the hurtled balls
scream!
The battle-front forms amid the smoke--the volleys pour incessant
from the line;
Hark! the ringing word, Charge!--now the tussle, and the furious
maddening yells;
Now the corpses tumble curl'd upon the ground,
Cold, cold in death, for precious life of you,
Angry cloth I saw there leaping.)
Are you he who would assume a place to teach, or be a poet here in
The States?
The place is august--the terms obdurate.                          180
Who would assume to teach here, may well prepare himself, body and
mind,
He may well survey, ponder, arm, fortify, harden, make lithe,
himself,
He shall surely be question'd beforehand by me with many and stern
questions.
Who are you, indeed, who would talk or sing to America?
Have you studied out the land, its idioms and men?
Have you learn'd the physiology, phrenology, politics, geography,
pride, freedom, friendship, of the land? its substratums and
objects?
Have you consider'd the organic compact of the first day of the first
year of Independence, sign'd by the Commissioners, ratified by
The States, and read by Washington at the head of the army?
Have you possess'd yourself of the Federal Constitution?
Do you see who have left all feudal processes and poems behind them,
and assumed the poems and processes of Democracy?
Are you faithful to things? do you teach as the land and sea, the
bodies of men, womanhood, amativeness, angers, teach?       190
Have you sped through fleeting customs, popularities?
Can you hold your hand against all seductions, follies, whirls,
fierce contentions? are you very strong? are you really of the
whole people?
Are you not of some coterie? some school or mere religion?
Are you done with reviews and criticisms of life? animating now to
life itself?
Have you vivified yourself from the maternity of These States?
Have you too the old, ever-fresh forbearance and impartiality?
Do you hold the like love for those hardening to maturity; for the
last-born? little and big? and for the errant?
What is this you bring my America?
Is it uniform with my country?
Is it not something that has been better told or done before?     200
Have you not imported this, or the spirit of it, in some ship?
Is it not a mere tale? a rhyme? a prettiness? is the good old cause
in it?
Has it not dangled long at the heels of the poets, politicians,
literats, of enemies' lands?
Does it not assume that what is notoriously gone is still here?
Does it answer universal needs? will it improve manners?
Does it sound, with trumpet-voice, the proud victory of the Union, in
that secession war?
Can your performance face the open fields and the seaside?
Will it absorb into me as I absorb food, air--to appear again in my
strength, gait, face?
Have real employments contributed to it? original makers--not mere
amanuenses?
Does it meet modern discoveries, calibers, facts face to face?    210
What does it mean to me? to American persons, progresses, cities?
Chicago, Kanada, Arkansas? the planter, Yankee, Georgian,
native, immigrant, sailors, squatters, old States, new States?
Does it encompass all The States, and the unexceptional rights of all
the men and women of the earth? (the genital impulse of These
States;)
Does it see behind the apparent custodians, the real custodians,
standing, menacing, silent--the mechanics, Manhattanese,
western men, southerners, significant alike in their apathy,
and in the promptness of their love?
Does it see what finally befalls, and has always finally befallen,
each temporizer, patcher, outsider, partialist, alarmist,
infidel, who has ever ask'd anything of America?
What mocking and scornful negligence?
The track strew'd with the dust of skeletons;
By the roadside others disdainfully toss'd.
Rhymes and rhymers pass away--poems distill'd from foreign poems pass
away,
The swarms of reflectors and the polite pass, and leave ashes;
Admirers, importers, obedient persons, make but the soul of
literature;                                                 220
America justifies itself, give it time--no disguise can deceive it,
or conceal from it--it is impassive enough,
Only toward the likes of itself will it advance to meet them,
If its poets appear, it will in due time advance to meet them--there
is no fear of mistake,
(The proof of a poet shall be sternly deferr'd, till his country
absorbs him as affectionately as he has absorb'd it.)
He masters whose spirit masters--he tastes sweetest who results
sweetest in the long run;
The blood of the brawn beloved of time is unconstraint;
In the need of poems, philosophy, politics, manners, engineering, an
appropriate native grand-opera, shipcraft, any craft, he or she
is greatest who contributes the greatest original practical
example.
Already a nonchalant breed, silently emerging, appears on the
streets,
People's lips salute only doers, lovers, satisfiers, positive
knowers; There will shortly be no more priests--I say their
work is done,                                               230
Death is without emergencies here, but life is perpetual emergencies
here,
Are your body, days, manners, superb? after death you shall be
superb;
Justice, health, self-esteem, clear the way with irresistible power;
How dare you place anything before a man?
Fall behind me, States!
A man before all--myself, typical before all.
Give me the pay I have served for!
Give me to sing the song of the great Idea! take all the rest;
I have loved the earth, sun, animals--I have despised riches,
I have given alms to every one that ask'd, stood up for the stupid
and crazy, devoted my income and labor to others,           240
I have hated tyrants, argued not concerning God, had patience and
indulgence toward the people, taken off my hat to nothing known
or unknown,
I have gone freely with powerful uneducated persons, and with the
young, and with the mothers of families,
I have read these leaves to myself in the open air--I have tried them
by trees, stars, rivers,
I have dismiss'd whatever insulted my own Soul or defiled my Body,
I have claim'd nothing to myself which I have not carefully claim'd
for others on the same terms,
I have sped to the camps, and comrades found and accepted from every
State;
(In war of you, as well as peace, my suit is good, America--sadly I
boast;
Upon this breast has many a dying soldier lean'd, to breathe his
last;
This arm, this hand, this voice, have nourish'd, rais'd, restored,
To life recalling many a prostrate form:)                         250
--I am willing to wait to be understood by the growth of the taste of
myself,
I reject none, I permit all.
(Say, O mother! have I not to your thought been faithful?
Have I not, through life, kept you and yours before me?)
I swear I begin to see the meaning of these things!
It is not the earth, it is not America, who is so great,
It is I who am great, or to be great--it is you up there, or any one;
It is to walk rapidly through civilizations, governments, theories,
Through poems, pageants, shows, to form great individuals.
Underneath all, individuals!                                      260
I swear nothing is good to me now that ignores individuals,
The American compact is altogether with individuals,
The only government is that which makes minute of individuals,
The whole theory of the universe is directed to one single
individual--namely, to You.
(Mother! with subtle sense severe--with the naked sword in your hand,
I saw you at last refuse to treat but directly with individuals.)
Underneath all, nativity,
I swear I will stand by my own nativity--pious or impious, so be it;
I swear I am charm'd with nothing except nativity,
Men, women, cities, nations, are only beautiful from nativity.    270
Underneath all is the need of the expression of love for men and
women,
I swear I have seen enough of mean and impotent modes of expressing
love for men and women,
After this day I take my own modes of expressing love for men and
women.
I swear I will have each quality of my race in myself,
(Talk as you like, he only suits These States whose manners favor the
audacity and sublime turbulence of The States.)
Underneath the lessons of things, spirits, Nature, governments,
ownerships, I swear I perceive other lessons,
Underneath all, to me is myself--to you, yourself--(the same
monotonous old song.)
O I see now, flashing, that this America is only you and me,
Its power, weapons, testimony, are you and me,
Its crimes, lies, thefts, defections, slavery, are you and me,    280
Its Congress is you and me--the officers, capitols, armies, ships,
are you and me,
Its endless gestations of new States are you and me,
The war--that war so bloody and grim--the war I will henceforth
forget--was you and me,
Natural and artificial are you and me,
Freedom, language, poems, employments, are you and me,
Past, present, future, are you and me.
I swear I dare not shirk any part of myself,
Not any part of America, good or bad,
Not the promulgation of Liberty--not to cheer up slaves and horrify
foreign despots,
Not to build for that which builds for mankind,                   290
Not to balance ranks, complexions, creeds, and the sexes,
Not to justify science, nor the march of equality,
Nor to feed the arrogant blood of the brawn beloved of time.
I swear I am for those that have never been master'd!
For men and women whose tempers have never been master'd,
For those whom laws, theories, conventions, can never master.
I swear I am for those who walk abreast with the whole earth!
Who inaugurate one, to inaugurate all.
I swear I will not be outfaced by irrational things!
I will penetrate what it is in them that is sarcastic upon me!    300
I will make cities and civilizations defer to me!
This is what I have learnt from America--it is the amount--and it I
teach again.
(Democracy! while weapons were everywhere aim'd at your breast,
I saw you serenely give birth to immortal children--saw in dreams
your dilating form;
Saw you with spreading mantle covering the world.)
I will confront these shows of the day and night!
I will know if I am to be less than they!
I will see if I am not as majestic as they!
I will see if I am not as subtle and real as they!
I will see if I am to be less generous than they!                 310
I will see if I have no meaning, while the houses and ships have
meaning!
I will see if the fishes and birds are to be enough for themselves,
and I am not to be enough for myself.
I match my spirit against yours, you orbs, growths, mountains,
brutes,
Copious as you are, I absorb you all in myself, and become the master
myself.
America isolated, yet embodying all, what is it finally except
myself?
These States--what are they except myself?
I know now why the earth is gross, tantalizing, wicked--it is for my
sake,
I take you to be mine, you beautiful, terrible, rude forms.
(Mother! bend down, bend close to me your face!
I know not what these plots and wars, and deferments are for;     320
I know not fruition's success--but I know that through war and peace
your work goes on, and must yet go on.)
.... Thus, by blue Ontario's shore,
While the winds fann'd me, and the waves came trooping toward me,
I thrill'd with the Power's pulsations--and the charm of my theme was
upon me,
Till the tissues that held me, parted their ties upon me.
And I saw the free Souls of poets;
The loftiest bards of past ages strode before me,
Strange, large men, long unwaked, undisclosed, were disclosed to me.
O my rapt verse, my call--mock me not!
Not for the bards of the past--not to invoke them have I launch'd you
forth,                                                      330
Not to call even those lofty bards here by Ontario's shores,
Have I sung so capricious and loud, my savage song.
Bards for my own land, only, I invoke;
(For the war, the war is over--the field is clear'd,)
Till they strike up marches henceforth triumphant and onward,
To cheer, O mother, your boundless, expectant soul.
Bards grand as these days so grand!
Bards of the great Idea! Bards of the peaceful inventions! (for the
war, the war is over!)
Yet Bards of the latent armies--a million soldiers waiting, ever-
ready,
Bards towering like hills--(no more these dots, these pigmies, these
little piping straws, these gnats, that fill the hour, to pass
for poets;)                                                 340
Bards with songs as from burning coals, or the lightning's fork'd
stripes!
Ample Ohio's bards--bards for California! inland bards--bards of the
war;)
(As a wheel turns on its axle, so I find my chants turning finally on
the war;)
Bards of pride! Bards tallying the ocean's roar, and the swooping
eagle's scream!
You, by my charm, I invoke!
Call me, when you are alone
You know your voice will make my day
You know how much I wait to hear your voice
You know how much I feel for you
You know you can shun my loneliness
You know I listen to you through my tears
You know my tears brings joy to me
You know my heart has grown big
You know your heart is pressed with me
You know I have so many wishes in my heart
You know I am sitting here and thinking how to start
You know I want to send my hugs to you
You know I love you forever in so many ways
call me again and again when you are lone
Don’t leave me alone,
This dark cold night,
Don’t leave me alone,
In this freezing fright,
Don’t leave me alone,
With only myself,
My sanity a fickle friend,
Who’ll soon leave,
And take my peace,
A peace, which only you restore,
So don’t leave me alone,
In the dark cold night,
Don’t leave me alone,
With this freezing fright,
Don’t leave me alone,
With what I behold in my sight,
A life with out you,
And many a freezing night.
I take my wine jug out among the flowers
to drink alone, without friends.
I raise my cup to entice the moon.
That, and my shadow, makes us three.
But the moon doesn't drink,
and my shadow silently follows.
I will travel with moon and shadow,
happy to the end of spring.
When I sing, the moon dances.
When I dance, my shadow dances, too.
We share life's joys when sober.
Drunk, each goes a separate way.
Constant friends, although we wander,
we'll meet again in the Milky Way.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Hamil
Like the lonely winter tree
Outstretched branches with never any leaves
Lonely skeletons, with lonely smiles
They look away while trying to hide
Their outstretched lonely eyes
I've pulled the last of the year's young onions.
The garden is bare now.  The ground is cold,
brown and old.  What is left of the day flames
in the maples at the corner of my
eye.  I turn, a cardinal vanishes.
By the cellar door, I wash the onions,
then drink from the icy metal spigot.
Once, years back, I walked beside my father
among the windfall pears.  I can't recall
our words.  We may have strolled in silence.  But
I still see him bend that way-left hand braced
on knee, creaky-to lift and hold to my
eye a rotten pear.  In it, a hornet
spun crazily, glazed in slow, glistening juice.
It was my father I saw this morning
waving to me from the trees.  I almost
called to him, until I came close enough
to see the shovel, leaning where I had
left it, in the flickering, deep green shade.
White rice steaming, almost done.  Sweet green peas
fried in onions.  Shrimp braised in sesame
oil and garlic.  And my own loneliness.
What more could I, a young man, want.
Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare.
Let all who prate of Beauty hold their peace,
And lay them prone upon the earth and cease
To ponder on themselves, the while they stare
At nothing, intricately drawn nowhere
In shapes of shifting lineage; let geese
Gabble and hiss, but heroes seek release
From dusty bondage into luminous air.
O blinding hour, O holy, terrible day,
When first the shaft into his vision shone
Of light anatomized! Euclid alone
Has looked on Beauty bare. Fortunate they
Who, though once only and then but far away,
Have heard her massive sandal set on stone.
Life is the cage
We are all born into
The zoo
Drives down the long
Snake in the rain,
Everyone sits alone
In the park
In the car
In the theatre
Everyone sits alone
And looks through bars
Of their flesh and bone
No eager hand
can grasp out of this
No willing hand has the
Reach,
We touch our flesh
To the flesh of our cages,
We lay down chained
And little birds sing
Beside others miles away
And barking
We touch steering wheels
As the lights cross our eyes
We learn to believe
The birth of shadows
We drive, a line of slaves,
Down the road
Everyone sits alone.
ONE face alone, one face alone,
These eyes require;
But, when that long’d-for sight is shown,
What fatal fire
Shoots through my veins a keen and liquid flame,
That melts each fibre of my wasting frame!
One voice alone, one voice alone,
I pine to hear;
But, when its meek mellifluous tone
Usurps mine ear,
Those slavish chains about my soul are wound,
Which ne’er, till death itself, can be unbound.
One gentle hand, one gentle hand,
I fain would hold;
But, when it seems at my command,
My own grows cold;
Then low to earth I bend in sickly swoon,
Like lilies drooping ’mid the blaze of noon.
The young maricones and the horny muchachas,
The big fat widows delirious from insomnia,
The young wives thirty hours' pregnant,
And the hoarse tomcats that cross my garden at night,
Like a collar of palpitating sexual oysters
Surround my solitary home,
Enemies of my soul,
Conspirators in pajamas
Who exchange deep kisses for passwords.
Radiant summer brings out the lovers
In melancholy regiments,
Fat and thin and happy and sad couples;
Under the elegant coconut palms, near the ocean and moon,
There is a continual life of pants and panties,
A hum from the fondling of silk stockings,
And women's breasts that glisten like eyes.
The salary man, after a while,
After the week's tedium, and the novels read in bed at night,
Has decisively fucked his neighbor,
And now takes her to the miserable movies,
Where the heroes are horses or passionate princes,
And he caresses her legs covered with sweet down
With his ardent and sweaty palms that smell like cigarettes.
The night of the hunter and the night of the husband
Come together like bed sheets and bury me,
And the hours after lunch, when the students and priests are masturbating,
And the animals mount each other openly,
And the bees smell of blood, and the flies buzz cholerically,
And cousins play strange games with cousins,
And doctors glower at the husband of the young patient,
And the early morning in which the professor, without a thought,
Pays his conjugal debt and eats breakfast,
And to top it all off, the adulterers, who love each other truly
On beds big and tall as ships:
So, eternally,
This twisted and breathing forest crushes me
With gigantic flowers like mouth and teeth
And black roots like fingernails and shoes.
Translated by Mike Topp
There was darkness under Heaven
For an hour's space--
Darkness that we knew was given
Us for special grace.
Sun and noon and stars were hid,
God had left His Throne,
When Helen came to me, she did,
Helen all alone!
Side by side (because our fate
Damned us ere our birth)
We stole out of Limbo Gate
Looking for the Earth.
Hand in pulling hand amid
Fear no dreams have known,
Helen ran with me, she did,
Helen all alone!
When the Horror passing speech
Hunted us along,
Each laid hold on each, and each
Found the other strong.
In the teeth of Things forbid
And Reason overthrown,
Helen stood by me, she did,
Helen all alone!
When, at last, we heard those Fires
Dull and die away,
When, at last, our linked desires
Dragged us up to day;
When, at last, our souls were rid
Of what that Night had shown,
Helen passed from me, she did,
Helen all alone!
Let her go and find a mate,
As I will find a bride,
Knowing naught of Limbo Gate
Or Who are penned inside.
There is knowledge God forbid
More than one should own.
So Helen went from me, she did,
Oh, my soul, be glad she did!
Helen all alone!
He stands alone now etched by time
As though was meant to be
His frame all bent and twisted
For all who pass to see
It wasn't always as it is
When children came around
To run and laugh and shriek with glee
He revelled in the sound
But age and weather took its toll
And disease had hit him hard
A surgeons cuts had saved his life
For which he didn't charge
And so he stands alone but proud
To survey what could be seen
The only oak for miles around
Upon the village green.
My family drove off mere hours ago
to visit Grandma on her birthday,
thus I am home and quite all alone.
First thing I undertook post-farewell
was doff my duds down to the undies,
hotter, t'was, than Homer Simpson's hell.
Ne'er may I dance to song as I please - -
tho' the spirit may often move me,
for my kin fling up arms, shriek and tease.
My feet like to dance, so, dance I did,
with the family van well out of view.
Sometimes you must blindly trust your id!
I danced like a fiend, singing along,
as graceful as Elaine on 'Seinfeld',
free as a bird both in movement and song...
Exhausted
at last,
I realized - -
a mite
too late
that
in my half-
sorrowful/
all-ecstatic
state
I'd undressed
while still
in front
of
the
house...
SOB (to say the least, eh?)
I fell dumbly to my knees,
clothes GONE from the grass!
Finding the door securely locked,
I spontaneously combusted into ash h h..........
Not really...
I'm hiding beneath
the deck until their
return in days three
using heretofore
unknown mental
powers to post this
poem on PH with glee!
So what - -
I'm
hungry.
Oh, once I walked in Heaven, all alone
Upon the sacred cliffs above the sky.
God and the angels, and the gleaming saints
Had journeyed out into the stars to die.
They had gone forth to win far citizens,
Bought at great price, bring happiness for all:
By such a harvest make a holier town
And put new life within old Zion's wall.
Each chose a far-off planet for his home,
Speaking of love and mercy, truth and right,
Envied and cursed, thorn-crowned and scourged in time,
Each tasted death on his appointed night.
Then resurrection day from sphere to sphere
Sped on, with all the POWERS arisen again,
While with them came in clouds recruited hosts
Of sun-born strangers and of earth-born men.
And on that day gray prophet saints went down
And poured atoning blood upon the deep,
Till every warrior of old Hell flew free
And all the torture fires were laid asleep.
And Hell's lost company I saw return
Clear-eyed, with plumes of white, the demons bold
Climbed with the angels now on Jacob's stair,
And built a better Zion than the old.
And yet I walked alone on azure cliffs
A lifetime long, and loved each untrimmed vine:
The rotted harps, the swords of rusted gold,
The jungles of all Heaven then were mine.
Oh mesas and throne-mountains that I found!
Oh strange and shaking thoughts that touched me there,
Ere I beheld the bright returning wings
That came to spoil my secret, silent lair!
I am much too alone in this world, yet not alone
enough
to truly consecrate the hour.
I am much too small in this world, yet not small
enough
to be to you just object and thing,
dark and smart.
I want my free will and want it accompanying
the path which leads to action;
and want during times that beg questions,
where something is up,
to be among those in the know,
or else be alone.
I want to mirror your image to its fullest perfection,
never be blind or too old
to uphold your weighty wavering reflection.
I want to unfold.
Nowhere I wish to stay crooked, bent;
for there I would be dishonest, untrue.
I want my conscience to be
true before you;
want to describe myself like a picture I observed
for a long time, one close up,
like a new word I learned and embraced,
like the everday jug,
like my mother's face,
like a ship that carried me along
through the deadliest storm.
I was born a wild child
a navigators son
from the slums I took my chances
and was always on the run
fought my way with others like me
and society who blamed
my behaviour on my parents
and misfortune on my name
I bled for my existence
and stole to feed my need
I would put on many faces
to extrapolate my breed
to defend the others round me
and provide some hopeful care
to the familys with broken hearts
and dreams that went nowhere
In the darkness of a thousand scars
that tore away my flesh
my hands would reach into
the soul and bones of what I'm worth
and though the sun was shining
trying to brighten up the day
in the poverty of mouths to feed
the slums are always grey
In a history of violence
and the screams that no-one heard
in a mothers tears and fathers fears
I learned every word
and paraded with a vengeance
on the streets of cobblestones
that my heart was independant
and I didn't stand alone.
Alone I set out on the road;
The flinty path is sparkling in the mist;
The night is still. The desert harks to God,
And star with star converses.
The vault is overwhelmed with solemn wonder
The earth in cobalt aura sleeps. . .
Why do I feel so pained and troubled?
What do I harbor: hope, regrets?
I see no hope in years to come,
Have no regrets for things gone by.
All that I seek is peace and freedom!
To lose myself and sleep!
But not the frozen slumber of the grave...
I'd like eternal sleep to leave
My life force dozing in my breast
Gently with my breath to rise and fall;
By night and day, my hearing would be soothed
By voices sweet, singing to me of love.
And over me, forever green,
A dark oak tree would bend and rustle.
I cry
On a remote mountainside,
Tears impossible to hide
From the mysterious, compassionate
Eyes of God;
I spend so much time alone,
But maybe I’m not alone.
In the beginning our Father was alone wanting company.
So to Himself said, 'I'll just create friends to suit my fancy.'
They will all be Holy angels having freedom of choice.
These Holy angels will be perfect in beauty having a voice.
All these angelic beings will have wings to fly away.
But I will set boundaries and limits where they are to stay.
They will also have eyes to see where to stop.
With ears to hear praises from the top.
By now the angels were given the sense of touch.
To the hierarchy in Heaven, was loved very much.
This sense of touch could be the feel of a wheel.
Boy what a deal.
And among other things could be pleasure,
With God's measure.
This pleasure with God's measure,
was their treasure.
All these spirits were given a mind.
To especially be kind.
Possessing abilities to voice their choice.
Think at a blink, even wink, not blind.
Hearing with ears even from behind.
The rank of the Cherubim was made of winged little girls and boys.
These Cherubs walked and talked with God who gave them toys.
The boys played with balls.
The girls played with dolls.
These Cherubs were happy, being content with all.
God was pleased with what He saw.
God gave all angels senses of smell and taste.
Instructing them they could lick in haste.
But never to taste paste or waste.
God gave angels given knowledge.
This sixth sense not taught in college.
The wisdom acquired,
Will be required.
If so desired.
So stay chaste.
For the chase.
Being eternally chased.
At this time there was no sin, which is vice.
Everything in Heavens chorus was joyous and nice.
Our Father is Perfect So He didn't have to think twice.
He made no mistakes that could not be corrected.
When creating He got exactly what He expected.
Through His Perfection is why God is always respected.
Every thing God created,
Never became outdated.
He could raise His finger,
To invent some timber.
Or blink an eye,
Creating the sky.
That Perfect magic Man could make something,
Simply out of nothing.
God created no two things exactly the same.
A female angel by nickname,
Was called a dame.
God could create showers,
For all the flowers.
What was left of the rain,
Ran down the drain.
After these showers.
The man took to the dame.
As a gift, these flowers.
For the main spirit game,
Was to win the dame.
Then your spirit life and her name.
Would never be the same.
I tell you that I see her still
At the dark entrance of the hall.
One gas lamp burning near her shoulder
Shone also from her other side
Where hung the long inaccurate glass
Whose pictures were as troubled water.
An immense shadow had its hand
Between us on the floor, and seemed
To hump the knuckles nervously,
A giant crab readying to walk,
Or a blanket moving in its sleep.
You will remember, with a smile
Instructed by movies to reminisce,
How strict her corsets must have been,
How the huge arrangements of her hair
Would certainly betray the least
Impassionate displacement there.
It was no rig for dallying,
And maybe only marriage could
Derange that queenly scaffolding -
As when a great ship, coming home,
Coasts in the harbor, dropping sail
And loosing all the tackle that had laced
Her in the long lanes...
I know
We need not draw this figure out
But all that whalebone came for whales
And all the whales lived in the sea,
In calm beneath the troubled glass,
Until the needle drew their blood.
I see her standing in the hall,
Where the mirror's lashed to blood and foam,
And the black flukes of agony
Beat at the air till the light blows out.
I THOUGHT I was not alone, walking here by the shore,
But the one I thought was with me, as now I walk by the shore,
As I lean and look through the glimmering light--that one has utterly
disappeared,
And those appear that perplex me.
I walk alone amongst the crowd
My heart still bleeding, pounding loud
Through darkened streets, I walk alone
I have no one to call my own
I need someone to ease the pain
To stop these tears that fall like rain
Alone I walk
To myself I talk
My teers tear apart
My broken heart
Charles R. Brunty
I woke alone,
ignorant of your absence.
I woke alone,
knowing what I can not have.
I will wake alone,
remembering what could have been.
Come, my darling, come away,
Take a pretty walk to-day;
Run along, and never fear,
I'll take care of baby dear:
Up and down with little feet,
That's the way to walk, my sweet.
Now it is so very near,
Soon she'll get to mother dear.
There she comes along at last:
Here's my finger, hold it fast:
Now one pretty little kiss,
After such a walk as this.
I’d like to awake
Without being woken
To just sit and think
With no word spoken
Allow me some time
To have on my own
When no one comes round
Or calls on the phone
I’d just like some space
Some privacy for me
I’d like to be left
With no company
To go to the bathroom
And not be disturbed
To put on my hairdryer
Without being heard
To lay in my bed
Minus the dogs
To cruise round the house
Without any tog’s
Let doors that I shut
Remain unopened
And none of my things
Be moved or broken
A special room
To call my own
A private place
To be alone
Lay back, relax
Chill out, just be
With no one else
Except for me.
If God has been good enough to give you a poet
Then listen to him. But for God's sake let him alone until he is dead;
no prizes, no ceremony,
They kill the man. A poet is one who listens
To nature and his own heart; and if the noise of the world grows up
around him, and if he is tough enough,
He can shake off his enemies, but not his friends.
That is what withered Wordsworth and muffled Tennyson, and would have
killed Keats; that is what makes
Hemingway play the fool and Faulkner forget his art.
826
Love reckons by itself—alone—
"As large as I"—relate the Sun
To One who never felt it blaze—
Itself is all the like it has—
Love walked alone.
The rocks cut her tender feet,
And the brambles tore her fair limbs.
There came a companion to her,
But, alas, he was no help,
For his name was heart's pain. .
It is yourself you seek
In a long rage,
Scanning through light and darkness
Mirrors, the page,
Where should reflected be
Those eyes and that thick hair,
That passionate look, that laughter.
You should appear
Within the book, or doubled,
Freed, in the silvered glass;
Into all other bodies
Yourself should pass.
The glass does not dissolve;
Like walls the mirrors stand;
The printed page gives back
Words by another hand.
And your infatuate eye
Meets not itself below;
Strangers lie in your arms
As I lie now.
*inspired when I was doing slavery in class
-------
These chains that bind my body,
Shall not bind my mind,
The skin taken from my flesh,
Shall not blind my sight,
These tears they shall not spill,
Till wrongs and rights are justed,
The dirt upon the my knees,
Is not my souls one colour,
My body you may own,
My mind is mine alone,
My soul it nests in His hands,
My life is mine alone.
My heart feels like an empty shell
Washed up from the sea
My mind feels like it's going mad
From trying to break free
And my tears seem like a thousand oceans
And they're drowning all the bliss
And my lips ache to be touched
By a true loves kiss
But I'm not alone
To be with people
Not feel lonely
To be with oneself
Not feel alone
ON the beach at night alone,
As the old mother sways her to and fro, singing her husky song,
As I watch the bright stars shining--I think a thought of the clef of
the universes, and of the future.
A VAST SIMILITUDE interlocks all,
All spheres, grown, ungrown, small, large, suns, moons, planets,
comets, asteroids,
All the substances of the same, and all that is spiritual upon the
same,
All distances of place, however wide,
All distances of time--all inanimate forms,
All Souls--all living bodies, though they be ever so different, or in
different worlds,
All gaseous, watery, vegetable, mineral processes--the fishes, the
brutes,                                                      10
All men and women--me also;
All nations, colors, barbarisms, civilizations, languages;
All identities that have existed, or may exist, on this globe, or any
globe;
All lives and deaths--all of the past, present, future;
This vast similitude spans them, and always has spann'd, and shall
forever span them, and compactly hold them, and enclose them.
ROOTS and leaves themselves alone are these;
Scents brought to men and women from the wild woods, and from the
pond-side,
Breast-sorrel and pinks of love--fingers that wind around tighter
than vines,
Gushes from the throats of birds, hid in the foliage of trees, as the
sun is risen;
Breezes of land and love--breezes set from living shores out to you
on the living sea--to you, O sailors!
Frost-mellow'd berries, and Third-month twigs, offer'd fresh to young
persons wandering out in the fields when the winter breaks up,
Love-buds, put before you and within you, whoever you are,
Buds to be unfolded on the old terms;
If you bring the warmth of the sun to them, they will open, and bring
form, color, perfume, to you;
If you become the aliment and the wet, they will become flowers,
fruits, tall blanches and trees.                             10
So alone in my bed
Alone listening to nightly whispers
Alone in my thoughts
Alone standing in court
Alone I stand and fight
Alone I pray for rainbow lights
Alone in the morning I awake
Alone I celebrate my joys
Alone I cry out my sadness
Alone I voice out my fears
Alone in strenght
Alone in wealth
Alone in good health
Alone I try to understand
Alone I seek knowledge
Alone I share what is mine
Alone I try not to be alone
Alone when my time has come, I pass away
Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,
But now my gracious numbers are decayed,
And my sick Muse doth give an other place.
I grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,
Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent
He robs thee of, and pays it thee again.
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word
From thy behaviour; beauty doth he give,
And found it in thy cheek; he can afford
No praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
Since what he owes thee, thou thyself dost pay.
You not alone, when you are still alone,
O God, from you that I could private be.
Since you one were, I never since was one;
Since you in me, my self since out of me,
Transported from my self into your being;
Though either distant, present yet to either,
Senseless with too much joy, each other seeing,
And only absent when we are together.
Give me my self and take your self again,
Devise some means but how I may forsake you;
So much is mine that doth with you remain,
That, taking what is mine, with me I take you;
You do bewitch me; O, that I could fly
From my self you, or from your own self I.
Sitting alone, Love bids me go and write;
Reason plucks back, commanding me to stay,
Boasting that she doth still direct the way,
Or else Love were unable to endite.
Love, growing angry, vexed at the spleen
And scorning Reason's maimed argument,
Straight taxeth Reason, wanting to invent,
Where she with Love conversing hath not been.
Reason, reproached with this coy disdain,
Despiteth Love, and laugheth at her folly;
And Love, condemning Reason's reason wholly,
Thought it in weight too light by many'a grain.
Reason, put back, doth out of sight remove,
And Love alone picks reason out of love.
When I go alone at night to my
love-tryst, birds do not sing, the wind
does not stir, the houses on both sides
of the street stand silent.
It is my own anklets that grow loud
at every step and I am ashamed.
When I sit on my balcony and listen
for his footsteps, leaves do not rustle
on the trees, and the water is still in
the river like the sword on the knees
of a sentry fallen asleep.
It is my own heart that beats wildly
--I do not know how to quiet it.
When my love comes and sits by
my side, when my body trembles and
my eyelids droop, the night darkens,
the wind blows out the lamp, and the
clouds draw veils over the stars.
It is the jewel at my own breast
that shines and gives light. I do not
know how to hide it.
Scarlet as the cloth draped over a sword,
white as steaming rice, blue as leschenaultia,
old curried towns, the frog in its green human skin;
a ploughman walking his furrow as if in irons, but
as at a whoop of young men running loose
in brick passages, there occurred the thought
like instant stitches all through crumpled silk:
as if he'd had to leap to catch the bullet.
A stench like hands out of the ground.
The willows had like beads in their hair, and
Peenemünde, grunted the dentist's drill, Peenemünde!
Fowls went on typing on every corn key, green
kept crowding the pinks of the peach trees into the sky
but used speech balloons were tacky in the river
and waterbirds had liftoff as at a repeal of gravity.
There is no place or grace, for all the human race
The race of will, to race and kill
As anger fills and kills the thrill
That we hold near and dear, we cherished children fear
The wraith of God, the wraith of man
The wraith of future shines the plan
That we can maul it all, from front to back we saw
The answer here, the answer there
And never thought to question where
Did anger’s state of hate, combined collaborate
That one is right, and powering
Then one will fight for might to sing
The battle long of song, dividing right from wrong
The death of you, the death of me
The death of us for all to see
No one can own this bone, together we’re alone
When I am alone, I think about you
I think how much we are close to each other
even we are far distance
I think our love is in our hearts
I think the good time we've shared together
I think how important you are
I think to share my ideas with you
I think my last dance with you
I think of my last kiss to you
I think your love on me
I think about you everyday
and wanted to let you know
I remember you when I am alone
When I walk alone, I think of you my love
When I walk alone, I walk with broken heart
When I walk alone, I walk with sadness
When I walk alone, I walk with my silent tears
When I walk alone, I walk with my sorrow
When I walk alone, I walk with my sad memories
When I walk alone, I walk with my shattered dream
When I walk alone, I walk with my hands lifeless
Love never walk alone but you made me walk alone
You promised me that you will walk with me forever
but you made me walk alone with my tears forever
When the heaven stolen you from me yesterday
All your promises are gone with the wind
Today, You made me walk alone with out you my love
and I promise you, I will walk alone till my journey ends
You alone I love, you alone I worship. [Poem]
Until I die my breath will guard you,
And my memories after.
In my death none I like to weep for me,
If you shed a dropp of tear, I will sprout again from the mud.
To love you to guard you to serve you.
I am born to love you alone
And I will die for your love too.
In the world here after, I will love, love you alone.
What else shall I say when my love for you is full?
What shall I think but you  when you are the truth.
I will but love you, Let them stone at me.
You alone I love, you alone I worship.
I m made to sing your melodies, care not the world hear or not.
Until I die my breath will guard you,
And my memories after.
In my death none I like to weep for me,
If you shed a dropp of tear, I will sprout again from the mud.
To love you to guard you to serve you.
Will a friend fly here
Among the gulls that glide and cry,
And erase all the mortification
Just to end this life's taxation?
Will a friend float here
Among the waves that rise and fall,
And break upon the rocks
To shatter lies that stand tall?
Will a friend walk here
Among the numerous passerbys
And fight for my rights
On all the days and nights?
Will a friend swim here
Among the sharks that create terror and fear
With strength and courage
Just to save my jagged life?
Or will I sit and sob
Among the winds that swirl and twirl
Only to unfurl
A life with beauty all around
But no human support to surround.
Does that mean all I can do is moan and groan
And nevertheless be on my own - ALL ALONE?
- (Written when in Std Xii)
Waxing Bodies,
Waning Minds,
Dried up Souls,
Ha...America!
China- section- eight as America!
China section eight is army home.
All committed are ill at houses to whom.
Views on ways are all as congress conga.
Leaders’ cons are all to make the crones.
Female sheep the herbs are sexes to eat.
Lucks at guesses are all for going at.
Sheep in males will drink the shower gold.
Shoulder come and bloods are both so cold.
Clouds to teach are Maoism giving girl.
Snows and winds are met but wrong with YMIR.
Lands of young have Maoism mad and old.
YOICKS my hounds will get the Maoism wolves.
---Cheung Shun Sang=Cauchy3---
Freedom, equality and justice
Had been the most valuable treasures
Cherished in the American hearts
And were the basis of their politics.
Religion also played its vital role,
Well among the American people,
But more than the spiritual progress,
Material value occupied the first place.
The reason was, the tremendous
Progress in technology and science,
That increased their prospects
Besides their rich life styles.
To give America a religious flavor,
Efforts were made thereafter.
As in the Parliament of Religion,
A forum to study all religions.
This forum gave a chance
For every religion to place
Their best religious practices
Before the learned audience.
Vivekananda scored high marks
In this evaluation process
To the credit of the Hindus,
With his thundering lectures.
He kept America in high esteem
For having extended this forum
To all the world religions
In the name of Parliament of Religions.
This forum proved that the success
Of technology and science
Responsible for material prosperity,
Couldn’t destroy any spiritual activity.
The result was, a closer contact
Between the East and the West
On the material platform
As well as in the spiritual forum.
In the eyes of America
The prestige of India
Shot up by leaps and bounds
Only after Swamiji’s lectures.
I.
ADIEU, New-England's smiling meads,
Adieu, the flow'ry plain:
I leave thine op'ning charms, O spring,
And tempt the roaring main.
II.
In vain for me the flow'rets rise,
And boast their gaudy pride,
While here beneath the northern skies
I mourn for health deny'd.
III.
Celestial maid of rosy hue,
O let me feel thy reign!
I languish till thy face I view,
Thy vanish'd joys regain.
IV.
Susanna mourns, nor can I bear
To see the crystal show'r,
Or mark the tender falling tear
At sad departure's hour;
V.
Not unregarding can I see
Her soul with grief opprest:
But let no sighs, no groans for me,
Steal from her pensive breast.
VI.
In vain the feather'd warblers sing,
In vain the garden blooms,
And on the bosom of the spring
Breathes out her sweet perfumes.
VII.
While for Britannia's distant shore
We sweep the liquid plain,
And with astonish'd eyes explore
The wide-extended main.
VIII.
Lo! Health appears! celestial dame!
Complacent and serene,
With Hebe's mantle o'er her Frame,
With soul-delighting mein.
IX.
To mark the vale where London lies
With misty vapours crown'd,
Which cloud Aurora's thousand dyes,
And veil her charms around.
X.
Why, Phoebus, moves thy car so slow?
So slow thy rising ray?
Give us the famous town to view,
Thou glorious king of day!
XI.
For thee, Britannia, I resign
New-England's smiling fields;
To view again her charms divine,
What joy the prospect yields!
XII.
But thou!  Temptation hence away,
With all thy fatal train,
Nor once seduce my soul away,
By thine enchanting strain.
XIII.
Thrice happy they, whose heav'nly shield
Secures their souls from harms,
And fell Temptation on the field
Of all its pow'r disarms!
America has traded in his Mercedes
For a beat up, General Motors car.
It has a fender and door of different colors.
It leaks water, burns oil and won’t go far.
America is standing at unemployment,
all morning, just to see the clerk.
Diligently, he pursues positions,
along with millions looking for work.
America is loading up a U-haul.
His wife and kids are moving to their aunt’s.
A sign in the yard says “For Sale - Bank Owned”.
When he bought it, he didn’t stand a chance.
America is standing at an off ramp,
wearing jeans he bought at Goodwill,
a cardboard sign saying “Help my Family”,
collecting dollars from passing automobiles.
I am a poet of the Hudson River and the heights above it,
the lights, the stars, and the bridges
I am also by self-appointment the laureate of the Atlantic
-of the peoples' hearts, crossing it
to new America.
I am burdened with the truck and chimera, hope,
acquired in the sweating sick-excited passage
in steerage, strange and estranged
Hence I must descry and describe the kingdom of emotion.
For I am a poet of the kindergarten (in the city)
and the cemetery (in the city)
And rapture and ragtime and also the secret city in the
heart and mind
This is the song of the natural city self in the 20th century.
It is true but only partly true that a city is a "tyranny of
numbers"
(This is the chant of the urban metropolitan and
metaphysical self
After the first two World Wars of the 20th century)
--- This is the city self, looking from window to lighted
window
When the squares and checks of faintly yellow light
Shine at night, upon a huge dim board and slab-like tombs,
Hiding many lives. It is the city consciousness
Which sees and says: more: more and more: always more.
Sing out! sing out! America,
''Sweet land of liberty;
Tell how we chased the red man
''From sea to shining sea''.
Be proud, stand tall America,
''Home of the free and brave'';
Ignore that angry black man,
Ancestored from a slave.
Sing out! ''This land is your land,
It was made for you and me'',
While toiling tenant farmers
Reside in poverty.
And sing about our many wars,
With them we must abide;
But tell the loyal citizens,
God was always on their side.
Corruption and intolerance
Defies our rule of law.
''America! America!
''God mend thine every flaw''.
The shadowy Daughter of Urthona stood before red Orc,
When fourteen suns had faintly journey'd o'er his dark abode:
His food she brought in iron baskets, his drink in cups of iron:
Crown'd with a helmet and dark hair the nameless female stood;
A quiver with its burning stores, a bow like that of night,
When pestilence is shot from heaven: no other arms she need!
Invulnerable though naked, save where clouds roll round her loins
Their awful folds in the dark air: silent she stood as night;
For never from her iron tongue could voice or sound arise,
But dumb till that dread day when Orc assay'd his fierce embrace.
'Dark Virgin,' said the hairy youth, 'thy father stern, abhorr'd,
Rivets my tenfold chains while still on high my spirit soars;
Sometimes an Eagle screaming in the sky, sometimes a Lion
Stalking upon the mountains, and sometimes a Whale, I lash
The raging fathomless abyss; anon a Serpent folding
Around the pillars of Urthona, and round thy dark limbs
On the Canadian wilds I fold; feeble my spirit folds,
For chain'd beneath I rend these caverns: when thou bringest food
I howl my joy, and my red eyes seek to behold thy face--
In vain! these clouds roll to and fro, and hide thee from my sight.'
Silent as despairing love, and strong as jealousy,
The hairy shoulders rend the links; free are the wrists of fire;
Round the terrific loins he seiz'd the panting, struggling womb;
It joy'd: she put aside her clouds and smiled her first-born smile,
As when a black cloud shews its lightnings to the silent deep.
Soon as she saw the terrible boy, then burst the virgin cry:
'I know thee, I have found thee, and I will not let thee go:
Thou art the image of God who dwells in darkness of Africa,
And thou art fall'n to give me life in regions of dark death.
On my American plains I feel the struggling afflictions
Endur'd by roots that writhe their arms into the nether deep.
I see a Serpent in Canada who courts me to his love,
In Mexico an Eagle, and a Lion in Peru;
I see a Whale in the south-sea, drinking my soul away.
O what limb-rending pains I feel! thy fire and my frost
Mingle in howling pains, in furrows by thy lightnings rent.
This is eternal death, and this the torment long foretold.'
In days of long ago,
how did Europeans enter America?
I read the history and now I know.
They arrived at Ellis Island
at the mouth of the Hudson River
often on a sunny day, but sometimes
they would shiver.
The Island was given a second name...
'Isle of Tears' as when immigrants
failed the acceptance test, they
cried away their fears.  But millions
of hopefuls were invited to set foot
in America, to live out their dreams
and fantasies forever and a day,
thankful for the gift which brought
success their way.
Beginning of the eighteenth century
Britain's Samuel Ellis gave his name
bringing more interest and immigrants
to an Island of prosperity and fame.
Mothers and fathers came with children,
I mention just a few... Irving Berlin,
Claudette Colbert, Sam Goldwyn,
Bob Hope, Al Johnson ~ and many more,
finding success through Ellis Island door.
Note: The Ellis Island is not used now,
having been declared a Natonal Historic
Site in 1965 by Johnson.
America, Europe and Asia are continents;
The first two interfere devastatingly in the third one's affairs;
Historical accidents helped
Traders turning to colonizers by interfering with Machiavellian tactics
In the local political matters of Asian nations
And settling as ‘rulers'
Being helped by egoistic and inefficient native rulers, gun powder and canons;
Europe waged two world wars
Drawing every nation into the conflicts and destruction;
America dominated world scene after II world war
Cold war divided Europe and the world into two camps, capitalist and communist;
Non-aligned nations were dubbed as developing or underdeveloped
Were laughed at for their sense of independence;
Heroes, heroines and villains are made
Depending on whether you are for CIA or for KGB,
Whole globe was converted into espionage see-saw;
Europe  and America
Facilitated the division of India, China, Korea, Vietnam, Yemen
Using religion and ideology as sharp knives,
Finally Israel was hoisted on Palestine;
The fires thus started are still claiming many  lives
Depriving the concerned nations of peace and well-being;
America and Europe practice and ‘preach' democracy;
On the other hand
Do not hesitate to side dictators to suit foreign policy and diplomacy;
The same dictator of Mesopotamia, pampered, cultivated and encouraged
To wage war with his neighboring nation in the eighties
Suddenly becomes accumulator of weapons of mass destruction;
False reports would be created and he would be hounded and executed
Under the pretext of war on terror and also to protect and install democracy there,
The real interest being to have free access to vast oil reserves available there;
Taliban is created with an ally to fight communists now becomes
Terrorists and are fought with the ‘help' of same ally against ‘terror';
Billions and billions of dollars are being spent to fight and eliminate their own creations
What a fine diplomacy and colossal waste of  money? !
America and Europe allowed terrorist organizations against Asian nations
To flourish on their soils as ‘freedom movements'
And gave asylum to many such in the name of protecting human rights
And allowed to collect funds for their ‘causes';
But 9/11 and 7/7 changed all that pampering and perception of ‘freedom movements',
And ‘liberal' attitude towards terrorists turned into fight against terrorism;
Rudely awakened the richest country
And its closest ally, the most successful colonizer and alter ego,
To the realities of terrorist attacks and terrorism;
Immediately wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are started to save America and Europe
From Osama bin laden and the Al-Qaeda
Despite their bitter experiences in Vietnam and Palestine;
Might be lives of citizens of ‘rich' nations are dearer and more valuable;
Hundreds of Asians have been getting killed daily and casualties to the redeemers too are mounting
Advocates of free society got caught in quagmire of their own creation;
Champions of human rights allowed rendition flights to land and refuel in their airports
Ran torture chambers in Guantanamo Bay;
If drones kill Taliban and innocent citizens daily, it is war on terror,
If an Asian air force bombs its terrorists
It is violation of human rights;
These very developed and civilized nations frisk travelers to their country based on their name,
Arrest and keep in detention without trial under draconian laws specially enacted,
Arrogantly complain that Asian countries are discriminating against their minority
And dub them as poor in maintaining human rights record;
Desire to be global instructor, human-rights' watcher, world police etc., can be understood
But the headmaster mentality of these two continents treating rest of the world
As their students is too much;
It is high time the 'rich' nations sign Kyoto protocol
And Europe does not put sanctions on free world trade
To protect the interests of nations of European Union;
Let the consumerist culture which plunged the world into worst
Economical disaster and depression not be spread;
Let the Asian nations maintain themselves based on their respective cultures and civilizations;
Nations where civilizations ancient flourished
When America and Europe were uninhabited wild forests,
Need not be instructed by starters of world wars
And droppers of atomic bombs;
Let charity begin at home;
Hurricane Katrina rehabilitation and Health Care Insurance imbroglio
Teen-age abortions and disturbed family relations
Tells the world about their abilities to take care of their citizens;
Let us all live in peace as equals;
Let the head masters leave the ‘pupils' to mend and manage themselves
Where their ancient civilizations are still alive
And can guide the world as a whole towards peace and prosperity in the real sense
'Tis fine to see the Old World and travel up and down
Among the famous palaces and cities of renown,
To admire the crumblyh castles and the statues and kings
But now I think I've had enough of antiquated things.
So it's home again, and home again, America for me!
My heart is turning home again and there I long to be,
In the land of youth and freedom, beyond the ocean bars,
Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
Oh, London is a man's town, there's power in the air;
And Paris is a woman's town, with flowers in her hair;
And it's sweet to dream in Venice, and it's great to study Rome;
But when it comes to living there is no place like home.
I like the German fir-woods in green battalions drilled;
I like the gardens of Versailles with flashing foutains filled;
But, oh, to take your had, my dear, and ramble for a day
In the friendly western woodland where Nature has her sway!
I know that Europe's wonderful, yet something seems to lack!
The Past is too much with her, and the people looking back.
But the glory of the Present is to make the Future free--
We love our land for what she is and what she is to be.
Oh, it's home again, and home again, America for me!
I want a ship that's westward bound to plough the rolling sea,
To the blessed Land of Room Enough, beyond the ocean bars,
Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars.
(America Conquers Europe.)
Foul shapes that hate the day, again grown bold,
Late driven hence, infested fane and court.
The laurels of our victory were amort.
Vile King-craft with his breed of blood and gold
Took heart to see the ancient wrongs infold
Our life, and childish figments which disport
I' that pale light whose essence mayn't support
Realities, in Freedom's hall to hold
Sick carnival did troop. But at the height
Of that debauch, while yet could be erased
The smut and spittle from the sacred chart,
Written in blood --a man whose soul gave light
Intolerable to kings, their power abased,
As he subdued the empire of the heart.
(Europe Conquers America.)
Strong for the strong and in his own conceit;
Half-boy, half-madman, playing with the fire;
Usurper, hoodlum, wed to his desire;
Loud in the hunt--afraid albeit to beat
The wolves which reared him--always with swift feet,
Booted and spurred to huddle in the mire
The malcontents, though Freedom die--no higher
Launching his truncheon; only to the street
Thundering at millionaires; unlearned, though read,
In human agony--surrendered up
To glory, war--of empty pomp the chief--
Europa, thou hast conquered! with bowed head
For Freedom slain (who prayed might pass the cup)
We pray, in faith, thy triumph may be brief!
America is America the land of the free, born in
the hope of a new world created, amongst men
who believed the vision of liberty and a freedom
to live in this glorious world
as inspired by valued people, created by its natural
landscaping, bounded by principles that to live in
harmony with nature has come to witness the wisdom
of our dear forefather the dignity of each man, living
in a time of what has been bless by the Almighty Father
perfected by His creation
as the spring birth the summer breeze, and the night
comes after the day, the morning has bless the loving
people of America, where respect and understanding
welcome all nation to shelter, the cheddar of Lebanon
Oh! America, where every hope comes in the most
expected ways, come swift it away for the day has given
to you to stay, Nay! America leaves us with pain, our
hearts echo it joy to renew the eternity bell, where you
always there to lend your hand, Alas! America, your
the answer of our call, the unity that we almost fall, the
clings of every nation souls to live freely as everybody
wants to be free
America is America, the journey that always there, the
step that make us well and the nation that takes you there
Viva America!
In the Rotations
of the Universe
periodically,
the Destiny Dial clicks
to that space
called Community.
Then all the world
celebrates
and weeps-
tears
which sparkle
and reflect
each hope,
each dream;
when we all plant
our Heart Flower Seeds
in the garden
hoping for the Future
which heals.
Not Miracles
but Peace,
not Riches;
but Shared Prosperity;
not no fear
but lessened anxiety.
America is an Ideal.
Every once in a while
She produces that hand
which re-lights the torch
of Lady Liberty
near extinguished by extremity;
a new hand which reaches out
to millions of other hands
which reach back
affirming the simple
retort:
Yes We Can.
Sing now
as others have sung
for phase, line and meter
bring back the music.
only America can sing,
of an era
which maybe,
just maybe
will crack that shut door,
where Hope's light will
shine through
upon child faces
where the children glimpse
new possibilities;
where new shinings
illuminate each child-face
bless each
and their progeny;
all bathed now in that precious prospect
where there is respect
for lives human and non-human.
Where peace is not extinguished
by flesh-mauling war machines.
American is an idea
that won't die;
an experiment
amid swarms of tyrannies;
where sometimes
the Universal Clock Pointer
swings round
to that wondrous space
we call
Liberty;
and Peace;
All this
signaled potentially
by a goat herder's son
who had that same dream.
Democracy is that system
best preserved
because no one knows
where Potential
emanates from;
or lessons that can be learned
from a goats herders son
and that Kansas wife
who had a different dream.
America Is In Intensive Care…….,
It’s just clinging to life……,
And its chances are slim and rare……,
Of coming out of the evil in there…..,
Looks like it might wind down……,
To that ‘two thousand twelve year’…….,
The year so many psychics have predicted……..,
And we all gravely fear……,
Still I doubt they’ll be a chance for more……,
The Mayans warned of this doomsday…….,
Thousands of years before…….,
Along with Nostradamus and the Bible
And though it may be a stretch……..,
Don’t forget the Pulitzer Prize winning, Al Gore……! ! !
So where do you think you’ll be……,
When this final devastating event….., i
Signals the absolute end……,
Of America, our planet and all humankind……,
As we know it, at the time….? ? ?
For it’s been warned that death and destruction……,
Will be the only remains on the Earth…….,
Distant alien civilizations may eventually find …! ! !
Kind of scary, isn’t it…..? ? ?
(I’m actually too optimistic to believe this or let it worry me……! ! !)
America is red, white, and blue,
the colors that stand so brave, and true.
Men in battle facing death,
Men in the world provoking crime, and theft.
America stand up on your feet,
Hold proudly out the flag, tenderly, and sweet.
America is home of the true,
Of people at peace like me, and you.
Red is for the blood in battle we do shed, white is for the peace we all share,
But sometimes we seldom even care.
Blue is for the sky where our fathers have gone, and stayed,
Watching us as we fight for peace both night, and day.
As I looked out the window
birds soar across the sky,
O how I envy their freedom,
their realm ever so high.
I remembered America's liberty,
and how this country began,
when settlers came and started
a new life with their clan.
And now, so many many years later,
this world a dark place.
But America is still shining,
with all it has to face.
America lives,
For you and for me,
With all she can give,
On land and on sea.
She has a grand flag of red white and blue,
She has her storms her droughts and her showers
She isn’t very old, in fact she’s quite new,
She’s even one of the world great powers.
We have been in many wars, yes so many,
Yet all through this America thrives,
Then in the end, we can give not a penny,
Yet we fight on and give up our lives.
Our lives that we love so dear, we give,
Just so that our great country,
America,
Can, and does live.
It's great to live in a country big and strong
It doesn't matter if you are young or old
Our thoughts are as good as gold
Where we go on land or sea
We can always be happy and free
Free to express our thoughts and then
Even express them over again
To different people no matter what color or race
In America for them there is always a place
To make a home
For their families to roam
The fields; the woods.
The countryside
Especially the young man and his bride
For seniors and teens
In formals or jeans
Who ever it may be
Remember we can always be free
Just like a bird chirping, singing happily.
Like chipmunks in the wood
Calling to his mate and being good.
Good to his family
And Grandpa talking to his Emily
Pondering over ideas and thoughts galore
And, off to bed and listen to him snore
Taken up in the morning early light
Whenever it is nice and bright
In America where we are always free
Where in New York Harbor stands the Statue of Liberty
Her hand raised high toward the sky
Where our planes in freedom fly
Where all of us want to be
America for you and me
Liberty and freedom will never end
I'll get down on both my knees and bend
To thank God I am an American
In a country great and grand
Who wants to be anywhere else
Except in America where we can do so much expand
America will always be my land.
wonderful land that makes
us one
fantastic place where
everyone chases
glorious as it is, a home
where everybody belongs
you have been the pot
of the potter hat
a dream that every race
has raised
alluring to the autumn spring,
where winter awaits the
crystal clear of summer
a beauty that my heart gives
the start of my journey's part
amusing, my soul rejoices
the scenery that offers me fall
let my life make the same
a moment where i remain
stand still,
dear America you await
me, till i meet
freedom that you give
life as we live, thing has
to believe, nation has to
live
cherish America
Although she feeds me bread of bitterness,
And sinks into my throat her tiger's tooth,
Stealing my breath of life, I will confess
I love this cultured hell that tests my youth!
Her vigor flows like tides into my blood,
Giving me strength erect against her hate.
Her bigness sweeps my being like a flood.
Yet as a rebel fronts a king in state,
I stand within her walls with not a shred
Of terror, malice, not a word of jeer.
Darkly I gaze into the days ahead,
And see her might and granite wonders there,
Beneath the touch of Time's unerring hand,
Like priceless treasures sinking in the sand.
Glorious daughter of time! Thou of the mild blue eye --
Thou of the virginal forehead --pallid, unfurrowed of tears--
Thou of the strong white hands with fingers dipped in the dye
Of the blood that quickened the fathers of thee, in the ancient years,
Leave thou the path of the beasts. Return thou again to the hills,
Forsake thou the deserts of death, where ever the burning thirst,
Flames in the throat for blood, for the vile desire that kills,
Where the treacherous sands by the rebel cerastes are cursed,
And the wastes are strewn with the bones of folly and hate.
Return! where the sunlight gladdens the places of green,
Where the stars comes forth, the heralds of faith and fate,
And the winds of eternity breathe from a day unseen.
Thou! what hast thou to do with a time burnt out and done?
With the old Serbonian bog-- the marshes where nations were lost?
Where wailings are heard of the dead, of the slaughtered Roman and Hun,
And phosphorent lights arise in the hands of a stricken ghost,
Dreaming of splendors of battle that glanced from a million shields,
When the C¾sars pillaged for lust of gold and hunger of power;
And the giants of Gothland festered and stank on the stretching fields,
And the gods of the living were cursed, too weak to reveal the hour,
When they should triumph and others should writhe in a dread defeat,
In the day of thy grace, O fair and false to thy fathers and time,
O thou whom the snares of kings already encompass thy feet,
With thy singing robes besprent with the old Egyptian slime.
But thou hast harkened to guile, to the cunning words of shame,
To the tempter with pieces of gold and the praise of the drunken throng.
Scornfully push from their hands the crown of a common fame,
Not made for thy peaceful brows, for thou wert not born for wrong.
Thou art the fruit of the groaning cycles of hope and love,
Told of by maddened prophets who never beheld thy face,
Who drew from the teeming earth and the fetterless sky above,
That man was made to be free, and to stamp under foot the mace.
How should thy innocent eyes ever leer with a reddened look?
Or thy hair be scented save of the measureless sea?
Or thy feet know the ways of deceit, wrote out in the murderous book,
By monarchs who shrank from the scourging and doom of thy strength and thee?
Beloved of time and of fate, cherished of justice and truth,
Yet thou art free to do, to choose the ill and to die;
To squander thy beauty for hire, to waste thy eternal youth --
For thou art eternal, if thou heedst them not, but pass by,
Pass and return to the mountains of freedom and peace,
Where heavenward flame the fires, where the torches may be relumed,
To girdle the world with the light that was kindled in olden Greece;
Or that the sparks may be scattered wherever injustice has doomed,
Darkness to be the portion of those who famish for light.
Be thou the great rock's shadow cast in a weary land,
Be thou a star of guidance true in a wintry night,
Be thou thyself, and thyself alone, as heaven hath planned.
Once in English they said America. Was it English to them.
Once they said Belgian.
We like a fog.
Do you for weather.
Are we brave.
Are we true.
Have we the national colour.
Can we stand ditches.
Can we mean well.
Do we talk together.
Have we red cross.
A great many people speak of feet.
And socks.
America, oh sweet home of mine
Glories beaconing fine
My heart longs for you
Your path way i dream to pass thru.
America, this dwelling of bountiful opportunities
Other lands merging for your treaties.
Beauty of all sought lies in your calling terrain
Eyes for glory can never look in vain.
America, these victors at battle field
All from God, you obey and yield.
you traces and fight the test of time,
And glance at echoes of time.
America, i accomodate you in my vacuum remaining
No way for others complaining.
Now, my muse waxing lyrica
All for you America
* I am not racist at all**This is how i feel about america**No disrespect to no body*
They call me second class
put chains on me mentally
America has treated me
like a slave
can't even LOVE her cause
she is WHITE
they hate OUR president
because he is BLACK
my own race is like crab in a barrel
mentally
when one of us gets a taste of success
the others get jelous envy and pull
the successful crab down
so it can never leave
America has put this image
that girls gotta be skinny to love
size two to be sexy
got these girls hating themselves
for who they are
America has also made
my race look dumb, ignorant, gangsta, never going to make it and down us
BUT LOOK we got
a black president and they dogging him
White boys wanna be down with bangers
be black now
America has raped us
of our rights
The white male has seprated my race
putting us in catergories house n field slaves
America robbed us blind
I just simply wanna be happy with
this girl
but America isnt going to
because they are cold
closed minded and in my opinion
scared
I love thine inland seas,
Thy groves of giant trees,
Thy rolling plains;
Thy rivers' mighty sweep,
Thy mystic canyons deep,
Thy mountains wild and steep,
All thy domains;
Thy silver Eastern strands,
Thy Golden Gate that stands
Wide to the West;
Thy flowery Southland fair,
Thy sweet and crystal air, --
O land beyond compare,
Thee I love best!
Additional verses for the
National Hymn,
March, 1906.
I
Where the wings of a sunny Dome expand
I saw a Banner in gladsome air-
Starry, like Berenice's Hair-
Afloat in broadened bravery there;
With undulating long-drawn flow,
As rolled Brazilian billows go
Voluminously o'er the Line.
The Land reposed in peace below;
The children in their glee
Were folded to the exulting heart
Of young Maternity.
II
Later, and it streamed in fight
When tempest mingled with the fray,
And over the spear-point of the shaft
I saw the ambiguous lightning play.
Valor with Valor strove, and died:
Fierce was Despair, and cruel was Pride;
And the lorn Mother speechless stood,
Pale at the fury of her brood.
III
Yet later, and the silk did wind
Her fair cold for;
Little availed the shining shroud,
Though ruddy in hue, to cheer or warm
A watcher looked upon her low, and said-
She sleeps, but sleeps, she is not dead.
But in that sleep contortion showed
The terror of the vision there-
A silent vision unavowed,
Revealing earth's foundation bare,
And Gorgon in her hidden place.
It was a thing of fear to see
So foul a dream upon so fair a face,
And the dreamer lying in that starry shroud.
IV
But from the trance she sudden broke-
The trance, or death into promoted life;
At her feet a shivered yoke,
And in her aspect turned to heaven
No trace of passion or of strife-
A clear calm look. It spake of pain,
But such as purifies from stain-
Sharp pangs that never come again-
And triumph repressed by knowledge meet,
Power delicate, and hope grown wise,
And youth matured for age's seat-
Law on her brow and empire in her eyes.
So she, with graver air and lifted flag;
While the shadow, chased by light,
Fled along the far-brawn height,
And left her on the crag.
America! God gave you broadful landings
Designated mountains, valleys, tropics.
With measures of shady green pastures
To keep the Promised Land, Showing. America! God gave you beautiful children
Different races, ethnicities, cultures.
With mixtures of created colors
To keep the Melting Pot, pouring. America! God gave you bountiful harvests
Delicate barley, whole wheat, grain.
With multiple rows of healthy sheaves
To keep the Milk and Honey, Flowing. America! God gave you blessedful knowledge
Diligent progress in technology.
With marketings of highest risings
To keep the American Dream, Growing. America! God made you the glory of all lands
Which HE searched out in pleasure.
Filled with insight into things unseen
To keep the Crown of Life, Glowing.
-for pilgrim sake,
and land once,  of 'Native' soil
Allegiance pledged, of
conquest gained, from
Earth's borne spirits' bold.
America,  Proud America
Our Earth, need not be harmed
when war tales are often told
and blood stained flags, unfold
America, we Love thee
of gifted Earth bequeathed
ne'er we forget, Democracy,
and all those enslaved, be free
America  America
May true freedom be our Quest
Of Womanhood and Brotherhood
from shore to ocean sea.
'With Love and Compassion,
Wherever Earth Be Shared'
Please; 'Support Peace'
Louie Levy
WW ll  Vet.
America the beautiful,
America the great,
America suits us all,
America I cannot hate
America we've come so far,
America the free,
If we wish upon a star,
Then that wish shall be
America, you ode for reality!
Give back the people you took.
Let the sun shine again
on the four corners of the world
you thought of first but do not
own, or keep like a convenience.
People are your own word, you
invented that locus and term.
Here, you said and say, is
where we are. Give back
what we are, these people you made,
us, and nowhere but you to be.
NOR force nor fraud shall sunder us! O ye
Who north or south, on east or western land,
Native to noble sounds, say truth for truth,
Freedom for freedom, love for love, and God
For God; O ye who in eternal youth
Speak with a living and creative flood
This universal English, and do stand
Its breathing book; live worthy of that grand
Heroic utterance—parted, yet a whole,
Far yet unsever’d,—children brave and free
Of the great Mother-tongue, and ye shall be
Lords of an empire wide as Shakespeare’s soul,
Sublime as Milton’s immemorial theme,
And rich as Chaucer’s speech, and fair as Spenser’s dream.
OH mother of a mighty race,
Yet lovely in thy youthful grace!
The elder dames, thy haughty peers,
Admire and hate thy blooming years.
With words of shame
And taunts of scorn they join thy name.
For on thy cheeks the glow is spread
That tints thy morning hills with red;
Thy step—the wild deer’s rustling feet
Within thy woods are not more fleet;
Thy hopeful eye
Is bright as thine own sunny sky.
Ay, let them rail—those haughty ones,
While safe thou dwellest with thy sons.
They do not know how loved thou art,
How many a fond and fearless heart
Would rise to throw
Its life between thee and the foe.
They know not, in their hate and pride,
What virtues with thy children bide;
How true, how good, thy graceful maids
Make bright, like flowers, the valley shades;
What generous men
Spring, like thine oaks, by hill and glen;—
What cordial welcomes greet the guest
By thy lone rivers of the West;
How faith is kept, and truth revered,
And man is loved, and God is feared,
In woodland homes,
And where the ocean border foams.
There ’s freedom at thy gates and rest
For Earth’s down-trodden and opprest,
A shelter for the hunted head,
For the starved laborer toil and bread.
Power, at thy bounds,
Stops and calls back his baffled hounds.
Oh, fair young mother! on thy brow
Shall sit a nobler grace than now.
Deep in the brightness of the skies
The thronging years in glory rise,
And, as they fleet,
Drop strength and riches at thy feet.
Thine eye, with every coming hour,
Shall brighten, and thy form shall tower;
And when thy sisters, elder born,
Would brand thy name with words of scorn,
Before thine eye,
Upon their lips the taunt shall die.
O this political air so heavy with the bells
and motors of a slow night, and no place to rest
but rain to walk—How it rings the Washington streets!
The umbrella’d congressmen; the rapping tires
of big black cars, the shoulders of lobbyists
caught under canopies and in doorways,
and it rains, it will not let up,
and meanwhile lame futurists weep into Spengler’s
prophecy, will the world be over before the races blend color?
All color must be one or let the world be done—
There’ll be a chance, we’ll all be orange!
I don’t want to be orange!
Nothing about God’s color to complain;
and there is a beauty in yellow, the old Lama
in his robe the color of Cathay;
in black a strong & vital beauty,
Thelonious Monk in his robe of Norman charcoal—
And if Western Civilization comes to an end
(though I doubt it, for the prophet has not
executed his prophecy) surely the Eastern child
will sit by a window, and wonder
the old statues, the ornamented doors;
the decorated banquet of the West—
Inflamed by futurists I too weep in rain at night
at the midnight of Western Civilization;
Dante’s step into Hell will never be forgotten by Hell;
the Gods’ adoption of Homer will never be forgotten by the Gods;
the books of France are on God’s bookshelf;
no civil war will take place on the fields of God;
and I don’t doubt the egg of the East its glory—
Yet it rains and the motors go
and continued when I slept by that wall in Washington
which separated the motors in the death-parlor
where Joe McCarthy lay, lean and stilled,
ten blocks from the Capitol—
I could never understand Uncle Sam
his red & white striped pants his funny whiskers his starry hat:
how surreal Yankee Doodle Dandy, goof!
American history has a way of making you feel
George Washington is still around, that is
when I think of Washington I do not think of Death—
Of all Presidents I have been under
Hoover is the most unreal
and FDR is the most President-looking
and Truman the most Jewish-looking
and Eisenhower the miscast of Time into Space—
Hoover is another America, Mr. 1930
and what must he be thinking now?
FDR was my youth, and how strange to still see
his wife around.
Truman is still in Presidential time.
I saw Eisenhower helicopter over Athens
and he looked at the Acropolis like only Zeus could.
OF THE PEOPLE is fortunate and select.
FOR THE PEOPLE has never happened in America or elsewhere.
BY THE PEOPLE is the sadness of America.
I am not politic.
I am not patriotic.
I am nationalistic!
I boast well the beauty of America to all the people in Europe.
In me they do not see their vision of America.
O whenever I pass an American Embassy I don’t know what to feel!
Sometimes I want to rush in and scream: “I’m American!”
but instead go a few paces down to the American Bar
get drunk and cry: “I’m no American!”
The men of politics I love are but youth’s fantasy:
The fine profile of Washington on coins stamps & tobacco wraps
The handsomeness and death-in-the-snow of Hamilton.
The eyeglasses shoe-buckles kites & keys of Ben Franklin.
The sweet melancholy of Lincoln.
The way I see Christ, as something romantic & unreal, is the way I see them.
An American is unique among peoples.
He looks and acts like a boyman.
He never looks cruel in uniform.
He is rednecked portly rich and jolly.
White-haired serious Harvard, kind and wry.
A convention man a family man a rotary man & practical joker.
He is moonfaced cunning well-meaning & righteously mean.
He is Madison Avenue, handsome, in-the-know, and superstitious.
He is odd, happy, quicker than light, shameless, and heroic
Great yawn of youth!
The young don’t seem interested in politics anymore.
Politics has lost its romance!
The “bloody kitchen” has drowned!
And all that is left are those granite
façades of Pentagon, Justice, and Department—
Politicians do not know youth!
They depend on the old
and the old depend on them
and lo! this has given youth a chance
to think of heaven in their independence.
No need to give them liberty or freedom
where they’re at—
When Stevenson in 1956 came to San Francisco
he campaigned in what he thought was an Italian section!
He spoke of Italy and Joe DiMaggio and spaghetti,
but all who were there, all for him,
were young beatniks! and when his car drove off
Ginsberg & I ran up to him and yelled:
“When are you going to free the poets from their attics!”
Great yawn of youth!
Mad beautiful oldyoung America has no candidate
the craziest wildest greatest country of them all!
and not one candidate—
Nixon arrives ever so temporal, self-made,
frontways sideways and backways,
could he be America’s against? Detour to vehicle?
Mast to wind? Shore to sea? Death to life?
The last President?
DEALS, DEALS, DEALS.
Small room, with twelve bathrooms.
Envelopes fill the baskets.
Mirrors with lipstick kisses.
In the small room - elbows bump.
In the office.
OCCUPIED - next bathroom.
Outside neighbors look.
Cesspool trucks arrive.
Dirt cover-up off lid.
Man preys lid open.
Next years news escapes.
CESSPOOL CLEAN and POLITICS AGAIN.
Well I tried to make it sunday, but I got so damn depressed
That I set my sights on monday and I got myself undressed
I ain’t ready for the altar but I do agree there’s times
When a woman sure can be a friend of mine
Well, I keep on thinkin’ ’bout you, sister golden hair surprise
And I just can’t live without you; can’t you see it in my eyes?
I been one poor correspondent, and I been too, too hard to find
But it doesn’t mean you ain’t been on my mind
Will you meet me in the middle, will you meet me in the air?
Will you love me just a little, just enough to show you care?
Well I tried to fake it, I don’t mind sayin’, I just can’t make it
Well, I keep on thinkin’ ’bout you, sister golden hair surprise
And I just can’t live without you; can’t you see it in my eyes?
Now I been one poor correspondent, and I been too, too hard to find
But it doesn’t mean you ain’t been on my mind
Will you meet me in the middle, will you meet me in the air?
Will you love me just a little, just enough to show you care?
Well I tried to fake it, I don’t mind sayin’, I just can’t make it
Who are these immigrants who mow all of this grass
in the medium strips and along the roadsides;
areas that pedestrians don’t use. Whose job is it to fertilize
and maintain this acreage; to kill the clover and dandelion
that constantly flowers. Why is it necessary to beautify
the tedious routes we take to and fro; the ones paved
over as a short cut between points A and B.
What about XYZ? ; out where expelled tire treads
litter the road and where a gallon of gas is not enough
to get you home…
Who are these immigrants who come here to mow America's lawn?
2008 © TS
O beautiful for spacious skies,
For amber waves of grain,
For purple mountain majesties
Above the fruited plain!
America! America!
God shed His grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea!
O beautiful for pilgrim feet,
Whose stern, impassioned stress
A thoroughfare for freedom beat
Across the wilderness!
America! America!
God mend thine every flaw,
Confirm thy soul in self-control,
Thy liberty in law!
O beautiful for heroes proved
In liberating strife,
Who more than self their country loved,
And mercy more than life!
America! America!
May God thy gold refine,
Till all success be nobleness,
And every gain divine!
O beautiful for patriot dream
That sees beyond the years
Thine alabaster cities gleam
Undimmed by human tears!
America! America!
God shed His grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea!
America The Beautiful
That what the song says
Those words ring loud and true
Every day that I’m alive
I see those words before my eyes
Anywhere I chance to look
In my heart this land will stay
America The Beautiful
Open meadows clear blue skies
Hills all covered green
I have been so many places
There’s much that I have seen
America The Beautiful
That’s what the song says
America The Beautiful
Will remain my home sweet home
If for some unknown reason
You’re unhappy with this land
You can always feel free to leave
But in a freer country you’ll never stand
9-20-77/RJH
© 8-14-10/RJH
It is time that I speak up for what they call America
for a people not appreciated much,
they are generous to all and help the needy near and far
millions gladly felt the good old Yankee touch.
There is Germany and Britain, and Japan and Italy
they were showered with those dollars and forgiven
many debts were cancelled all to end their self-caused misery
new investments, new economies were driven.
While some debts remained in place and should be honoured as of right
it is clear that not one country pays a dime,
you would think that just the interest would be given without fight
but the world does not regard this as a crime.
It was nineteen-fifty-six and Vive La France was near collapse
guess who came to prop her up in those dark days?
Yes it was the helpful Yankees, while De Gaulle was taking naps
but the money disappeared into the haze.
Look at earthquakes in those regions where the people are so poor
who will hurry to the places and assist,
yet tornadoes flatten cities in the homeland every year
any helpers must have faded in the mist.
When the Marshall Plan pumped billions into countries destitute
there were smiles of gratitude on every face
yet today their papers write about the decadent dispute
and are calling them the warring tyrant race.
Look at planes that fly those people in convenient and safe trips
to the places where the world looks not like home
should you hear the names of Boeing, DC-Ten on foreign lips
on the way to a now free and prosperous Rome?
When the railways broke in Germany, in France and India
they were rebuilt by Americans, my word,
when they did collapse at home, in Pennsylvania
and New York no single miracle occurred.
No one lend them even one lousy caboose.
I can name five thousand times when old America would act
while the rest of our great world were in a snooze.
Take an earthquake on the coast, and with little left intact
who of all the mentioned countries would be seen?
I could go and tell you more but maybe all will get the gist
that Americans have always been too keen
to be nurse and, yes policeman while the envious souls get pissed
so America, you ought to stand up tall.
No one stands with you in times when there is need for a strong shoulder
that could help you and prevent that some might fall
I have seen you go alone and with your goodness move the boulder
while the sneering and the whistling could be heard.
And today, courageous people, you are faced with a new foe
that will plant your precious boys deep in the dirt
once again the world is watching and enjoying their own show
screaming insults, throwing rocks at simple folks.
It is not the Ma's and Pa's or all their offspring that is bad
and there really is no room for your poor jokes.
It is George and Donald and some others who've gone mad
as the devil of Big Greed has grabbed their hand.
Uncle Sam and his mean henchmen need to go inside a cell
so the people can get back their promised land.
And I pray for my America, Get Well.
Note:  This was inspired by the radio address of Gordon Sinclair,
a Canadian, in the seventies. I kept the title as well
Their fruits proud and confident with their knowledge of modern technology but,
historically sleeping.  For some call America "The Heaven on Earth." This simply means, "As there are many
different ways of dying to go to heaven and so there are many different ways of entering
the United States of America. Since there are no differences in heaven between those
who died by road accidents and those who died in the Titanic, And so there are no
differences in America between their fruits, those with U.S. visas, those in stowaway
ships, those jumping over the fence or even bush roads. like heaven or one like America."  For some call America "The Land of Dreams." But in their restless sleep with only one
hour to sleep and go back to work, their nightmare dreams are "evictions, Insurance
Bills, Car notes, Tax bills, a dream no longer at ease - "The Bills."  Yet some call America "The Land of Opportunities." Indeed what wonderful
opportunities in the K.F.C. restaurants, Roy Rogers, Wendy's, McDonald's, the Great
Merrymaids Cleaning Companies. And what a smile the CVS drug store has for selling
Bengay Balsam, oops sleeping on a backache the next morning, a smile and everything is
fine.  As a poet I am reminding their historically sleeping fruits that this land, this beloved
country, this portion of God's created earth, "America the Melting Pot Land."  America the melting pot land is the only land on Earth folks flung and scattered from all
over the world with different backgrounds, colors, races, and languages and melted, and
blended, themselves never to be recognized.  Although sometimes their zig zag tongues make their fruits ask them - Where are you
from? - In this melting pot land "America," only God could save their proud fruits with
whom they melted and blended. Thus violence has no color or race in this melting pot
land.  I counted my blessing as ninth grade school drop out to be melting and blending myself
with intellectual poets in this melting pot land, "The United States of America."
1899
Who would trust England, let him lift his eyes
To Nelson, columned o'er Trafalgar Square,
Her hieroglyph of duty, written where
The roar of traffic hushes to the skies;
Or mark, while Paul's vast shadow softly lies
On Gordon's statued sleep, how praise and prayer
Flush through the frank young faces clustering there
To con that kindred rune of sacrifice.
O England, no bland cloud-ship in the blue,
But rough oak plunging on o'er perilous jars
Of reef and ice, our faith will follow you
The more for tempest roar that strains your spars
And splits your canvas, be your helm but true,
Your courses shapen by the eternal stars.
1900
The nightmare melts at last, and London wakes
To her old habit of victorious ease.
More men, and more, and more for over-seas,
More guns until the giant hammer breaks
That patriot folk whom even God forsakes.
Shall not Great England work her will on these,
The foolish little nations, and appease
An angry shame that in her memory aches?
But far beyond the fierce-contested flood,
The cannon-planted pass, the shell-torn town,
The last wild carnival of fire and blood,
Beware, beware that dim and awful Shade,
Armored with Milton's sword and Cromwell's frown,
Affronted Freedom, of her own betrayed!
AUGUST 5, 1866
THOUGH watery deserts hold apart
The worlds of East and West,
Still beats the selfsame human heart
In each proud Nation's breast.
Our floating turret tempts the main
And dares the howling blast
To clasp more close the golden chain
That long has bound them fast.
In vain the gales of ocean sweep,
In vain the billows roar
That chafe the wild and stormy steep
Of storied Elsinore.
She comes! She comes! her banners dip
In Neva's flashing tide,
With greetings on her cannon's lip,
The storm-god's iron bride!
Peace garlands with the olive-bough
Her thunder-bearing tower,
And plants before her cleaving prow
The sea-foam's milk-white flower.
No prairies heaped their garnered store
To fill her sunless hold,
Not rich Nevada's gleaming ore
Its hidden caves infold,
But lightly as the sea-bird swings
She floats the depths above,
A breath of flame to lend her wings,
Her freight a people's love!
When darkness hid the starry skies
In war's long winter night,
One ray still cheered our straining eyes,
The far-off Northern light.
And now the friendly rays return
From lights that glow afar,
Those clustered lamps of Heaven that burn
Around the Western Star.
A nation's love in tears and smiles
We bear across the sea,
O Neva of the banded isles,
We moor our hearts in thee!
America won't
Be the same anymore
Because they are fighting
In the Afghanistan
War
You have the grit and the guts, I know;
You are ready to answer blow for blow
You are virile, combative, stubborn, hard,
But your honor ends with your own back-yard;
Each man intent on his private goal,
You have no feeling for the whole;
What singly none would tolerate
You let unpunished hit the state,
Unmindful that each man must share
The stain he lets his country wear,
And (what no traveller ignores)
That her good name is often yours.
You are proud in the pride that feels its might;
From your imaginary height
Men of another race or hue
Are men of a lesser breed to you:
The neighbor at your southern gate
You treat with the scorn that has bred his hate.
To lend a spice to your disrespect
You call him the "greaser". But reflect!
The greaser has spat on you more than once;
He has handed you multiple affronts;
He has robbed you, banished you, burned and killed;
He has gone untrounced for the blood he spilled;
He has jeering used for his bootblack's rag
The stars and stripes of the gringo's flag;
And you, in the depths of your easy-chair --
What did you do, what did you care?
Did you find the season too cold and damp
To change the counter for the camp?
Were you frightened by fevers in Mexico?
I can't imagine, but this I know --
You are impassioned vastly more
By the news of the daily baseball score
Than to hear that a dozen countrymen
Have perished somewhere in Darien,
That greasers have taken their innocent lives
And robbed their holdings and raped their wives.
Not by rough tongues and ready fists
Can you hope to jilt in the modern lists.
The armies of a littler folk
Shall pass you under the victor's yoke,
Sobeit a nation that trains her sons
To ride their horses and point their guns --
Sobeit a people that comprehends
The limit where private pleasure ends
And where their public dues begin,
A people made strong by discipline
Who are willing to give -- what you've no mind to --
And understand -- what you are blind to --
The things that the individual
Must sacrifice for the good of all.
You have a leader who knows -- the man
Most fit to be called American,
A prophet that once in generations
Is given to point to erring nations
Brighter ideals toward which to press
And lead them out of the wilderness.
Will you turn your back on him once again?
Will you give the tiller once more to men
Who have made your country the laughing-stock
For the older peoples to scorn and mock,
Who would make you servile, despised, and weak,
A country that turns the other cheek,
Who care not how bravely your flag may float,
Who answer an insult with a note,
Whose way is the easy way in all,
And, seeing that polished arms appal
Their marrow of milk-fed pacifist,
Would tell you menace does not exist?
Are these, in the world's great parliament,
The men you would choose to represent
Your honor, your manhood, and your pride,
And the virtues your fathers dignified?
Oh, bury them deeper than the sea
In universal obloquy;
Forget the ground where they lie, or write
For epitaph: "Too proud to fight."
I have been too long from my country's shores
To reckon what state of mind is yours,
But as for myself I know right well
I would go through fire and shot and shell
And face new perils and make my bed
In new privations, if ROOSEVELT led;
But I have given my heart and hand
To serve, in serving another land,
Ideals kept bright that with you are dim;
Here men can thrill to their country's hymn,
For the passion that wells in the Marseillaise
Is the same that fires the French these days,
And, when the flag that they love goes by,
With swelling bosom and moistened eye
They can look, for they know that it floats there still
By the might of their hands and the strength of their will,
And through perils countless and trials unknown
Its honor each man has made his own.
They wanted the war no more than you,
But they saw how the certain menace grew,
And they gave two years of their youth or three
The more to insure their liberty
When the wrath of rifles and pennoned spears
Should roll like a flood on their wrecked frontiers.
They wanted the war no more than you,
But when the dreadful summons blew
And the time to settle the quarrel came
They sprang to their guns, each man was game;
And mark if they fight not to the last
For their hearths, their altars, and their past:
Yea, fight till their veins have been bled dry
For love of the country that WILL not die.
O friends, in your fortunate present ease
(Yet faced by the self-same facts as these),
If you would see how a race can soar
That has no love, but no fear, of war,
How each can turn from his private role
That all may act as a perfect whole,
How men can live up to the place they claim
And a nation, jealous of its good name,
Be true to its proud inheritance,
Oh, look over here and learn from FRANCE!
LEANDER.
No more of Memphis and her mighty kings,
Or Alexandria, where the Ptolomies.
Taught golden commerce to unfurl her falls,
And bid fair science smile: No more of Greece
Where learning next her early visit paid,
And spread her glories to illume the world,
No more of Athens, where she flourished,
And saw her sons of mighty genius rise
Smooth flowing Plato, Socrates and him
Who with resistless eloquence reviv'd
The Spir't of Liberty, and shook the thrones
Of Macedon and Persia's haughty king.
No more of Rome enlighten'd by her beams,
Fresh kindling there the fire of eloquence,
And poesy divine; imperial Rome!
Whose wide dominion reach'd o'er half the globe;
Whose eagle flew o'er Ganges to the East,
And in the West far to the British isles.
No more of Britain, and her kings renown'd,
Edward's and Henry's thunderbolts of war;
Her chiefs victorious o'er the Gallic foe;
Illustrious senators, immortal bards,
And wise philosophers, of these no more.
A Theme more new, tho' not less noble claims
Our ev'ry thought on this auspicious day
The rising glory of this western world,
Where now the dawning light of science spreads
Her orient ray, and wakes the muse's song;
Where freedom holds her sacred standard high,
And commerce rolls her golden tides profuse
Of elegance and ev'ry joy of life.
ACASTO.
Since then Leander you attempt a strain
So new, so noble and so full of fame;
And since a friendly concourse centers here
America's own sons, begin O muse!
Now thro' the veil of ancient days review
The period fam'd when first Columbus touch'd
The shore so long unknown, thro' various toils,
Famine and death, the hero made his way,
Thro' oceans bestowing with eternal storms.
But why, thus hap'ly found, should we resume
The tale of Cortez, furious chief, ordain'd
With Indian blood to dye the sands, and choak
Fam'd Amazonia's stream with dead! Or why,
Once more revive the story old in fame,
Of Atabilipa by thirst of gold
Depriv'd of life: which not Peru's rich ore,
Nor Mexico's vast mines cou'd then redeem.
Better these northern realms deserve our song,
Discover'd by Britannia for her sons;
Undeluged with seas of Indian blood,
Which cruel Spain on southern regions spilt;
To gain by terrors what the gen'rous breast
Wins by fair treaty, conquers without blood.
EUGENIO.
High in renown th' intreprid hero stands,
From Europes shores advent'ring first to try
New seas, new oceans, unexplor'd by man.
Fam'd Cabot too may claim our noblest song,
Who from th' Atlantic surge descry'd these shores,
As on he coasted from the Mexic bay
To Acady and piny Labradore.
Nor less than him the muse would celebrate
Bold Hudson stemming to the pole, thro' seas
Vex'd with continual storms, thro' the cold strains,
Where Europe and America oppose
Their shores contiguous, and the northern sea
Confin'd, indignant, swells and roars between.
With these be number'd in the list of fame
Illustrious Raleigh, hapless in his fate:
Forgive me Raleigh, if an infant muse
Borrows thy name to grace her humble strain;
By many nobler are thy virtues sung;
Envy no more shall throw them in the shade;
They pour new lustre on Britannia's isle.
Thou too, advent'rous on th' Atlantic main,
Burst thro' its storms and fair Virginia hail'd.
The simple natives saw thy canvas flow,
And gaz'd aloof upon the shady shore:
For in her woods America contain'd,
From times remote, a savage race of men.
How shall we know their origin, how tell,
From whence or where the Indian tribes arose?
ACASTO.
And long has this defy'd the sages skill
T' investigate: Tradition seems to hide
The mighty secret from each mortal eye,
How first these various nations South and North
Possest these shores, or from what countries came.
Whether they sprang from some premoeval head
In their own lands, like Adam in the East;
Yet this the sacred oracles deny,
And reason too reclaims against the thought.
For when the gen'ral deluge drown'd the world,
Where could their tribes have found security?
Where find their fate but in the ghastly deep?
Unless, as others dream, some chosen few
High on the Andes 'scap'd the gen'ral death,
High on the Andes wrapt in endless snow,
Where winter in his wildest fury reigns.
But here Philosophers oppose the scheme,
The earth, say they, nor hills nor mountains knew
E'er yet the universal flood prevail'd:
But when the mighty waters rose aloft
Rous'd by the winds, they shook their solid case
And in convulsions tore the drowned world!
'Till by the winds assuag'd they quickly fell
And all their ragged bed exposed to view.
Perhaps far wand'ring towards the northren pole,
The straits of Zembla and the Frozen Zone,
And where the eastern Greenland almost joins
America's north point, the hardy tribes
Of banish'd Jews, Siberians, Tartars wild
Came over icy mountains, or on floats
First reach'd these coasts hid from the world beside.
And yet another argument more strange
Reserv'd for men of deeper thought and late
Presents itself to view: In Pelag's days,
So says the Hebrew seer's inspired pen,
This mighty mass of earth, this solid globe
Was cleft in twain--cleft east and west apart
While strait between the deep Atlantic roll'd.
And traces indisputable remain
Of this unhappy land now sunk and lost;
The islands rising in the eastern main
Are but small fragments of this continent,
Whose two extremities were Newfoudland
And St. Helena.--One far in the north
Where British seamen now with strange surprise
Behold the pole star glitt'ring o'er their heads;
The other in the southern tropic rears
Its head above the waves; Bermudas and
Canary isles, Britannia and th' Azores,
With fam'd Hibernia are but broken parts
Of some prodigious waste which once sustain'd
Armies by lands, where now but ships can range.
LEANDER.
Your sophistry Acasto makes me smile;
The roving mind of man delights to dwell
On hidden things, merely because they're hid;
He thinks his knowledge ne'er can reach too high
And boldly pierces nature's inmost haunts
But for uncertainties; your broken isles,
You northern Tartars, and your wand'ring Jews.
Hear what the voice of history proclaims.
The Carthaginians, e'er the Roman yoke
Broke their proud spirits and enslav'd them too,
For navigation were renown'd as much
As haughty Tyre with all her hundred fleets;
Full many: league their vent'rous seamen sail'd
Thro' strait Gibraltar down the western shore
Of Africa, and to Canary isles
By them call'd fortunate, so Flaccus sings,
Because eternal spring there crowns the fields,
And fruits delicious bloom throughout the year.
From voyaging here this inference I draw,
Perhaps some barque with all her num'rous crew
Caught by the eastern trade wind hurry'd on
Before th' steady blast to Brazil's shore,
New Amazonia and the coasts more south.
Here standing and unable to return,
For ever from their native skies estrang'd,
Doubtless they made the unknown land their own.
And in the course of many rolling years
A num'rous progeny from these arose,
And spread throughout the coasts; those whom we call
Brazilians, Mexicans, Peruvians rich,
Th' tribes of Chili, Paragon and those
Who till the shores of Amazon's long stream.
When first the pow'rs of Europe here attain'd
Vast empires, kingdoms, cities, palaces
And polish'd nations stock'd the fertile land.
Who has not heard of Cusco, Lima and
The town of Mexico; huge cities form'd
From Europe's architecture, e're the arms
Of haughty Spain disturb'd the peaceful soil.
EUGENIO.
Such disquisition leads the puzzled mind
From maze to maze by queries still perplex'd.
But this we know, if from the east they came
Where science first and revelation beam'd,
Long since they've lost all memory, all trace
Of this their origin: Tradition tells
Of some great forefather beyond the lakes
Oswego, Huron, Mechigan, Champlaine
Or by the stream of Amazon which rolls
Thro' many a clime; while others simply dream
That from the Andes or the mountains north,
Some hoary fabled ancestor came down
To people this their world.
LEANDER.
How fallen, Oh!
How much obscur'd is human nature here!
Shut from the light of science and of truth
They wander'd blindfold down the steep of time;
Dim superstition with her ghastly train
Of dæmons, spectres and forboding signs
Still urging them to horrid rites and forms
Of human sacrifice, to sooth the pow'rs
Malignant, and the dark infernal king.
Once on this spot perhaps a wigwam stood
With all its rude inhabitants, or round
Some mighty fire an hundred savage sons
Gambol'd by day, and filled the night with cries;
In what superior to the brutal race
That fled before them thro' the howling wilds,
Were all those num'rous tawny tribes which swarm'd
From Baffin's bay to Del Fuego south,
From California to the Oronoque.
Far from the reach of fame they liv'd unknown
In listless slumber and inglorious ease;
To them fair science never op'd her stores,
Nor sacred truth sublim'd the soul to God;
No fix'd abode their wand'ring genius knew;
No golden harvest crown'd the fertile glebe;
No city then adorn'd the rivers bank,
Nor rising turret overlook'd the stream.
ACASTO.
Now view the prospect chang'd; far off at sea
The mariner descry's our spacious towns
He hails the prospect of the land and views
A new, a fair a fertile world arise;
Onward from India's isles far east, to us
Now fair-ey'd commerce stretches her white sails,
Learning exalts her head, the graces smile
And peace establish'd after horrid war
Improves the splendor of these early times.
But come my friends and let us trace the steps
By which this recent happy world arose,
To this fair eminence of high renown
This height of wealth, of liberty and fame.
LEANDER.
Speak then Eugenio, for I've heard you tell
The pleasing hist'ry, and the cause that brought
The first advent'rers to these happy shores;
The glorious cause that urg'd our fathers first
To visit climes unknown and wilder woods
Than e'er Tartarian or Norwegian saw,
And with fair culture to adorn that soil
Which never knew th' industrious swain before.
EUGENIO.
All this long story to rehearse would tire,
Besides the sun toward the west retreats,
Nor can the noblest tale retard his speed,
Nor loftiest verse; not that which sung the fall
Of Troy divine and smooth Scamander's stream.
Yet hear a part.--By persecution wrong'd
And popish cruelty, our fathers came
From Europe's shores to find this blest abode,
Secure from tyranny and hateful man.
For this they left their country and their friends
And plough'd th' Atlantic wave in quest of peace;
And found new shores and sylvan settlements
Form'd by the care of each advent'rous chief,
Who, warm in liberty and freedom's cause,
Sought out uncultivated tracts and wilds,
And fram'd new plans of cities, governments
And spacious provinces: Why should I name
Thee Penn, the Solon of our western lands;
Sagacious legislator, whom the world
Admires tho' dead: an infant colony
Nurs'd by thy care, now rises o'er the rest
Like that tall Pyramid on Memphis' stand
O'er all the lesser piles, they also great.
Why should I name those heroes so well known
Who peopled all the rest from Canada
To Georgia's farthest coasts, West Florida
Or Apalachian mountains, yet what streams
Of blood were shed! What Indian hosts were slain
Before the days of peace were quite restor'd.
LEANDER.
Yes, while they overturn'd the soil untill'd,
And swept the forests from the shaded plain
'Midst dangers, foes and death, fierce Indian tribes
With deadly malice arm'd and black design,
Oft murder'd half the hapless colonies.
Encourag'd too by that inglorious race
False Gallia's sons, who once their arms display'd
At Quebec, Montreal and farthest coasts
Of Labrador and Esquimaux where now
The British standard awes the coward host.
Here those brave chiefs, who lavish of their blood
Fought in Britannia's cause, most nobly fell.
What Heart but mourns the untimely fate of Wolf,
Who dying conquer'd, or what breast but beats
To share a fate like his, and die like him?
ACASTO.
And he demands our lay who bravely fell
By Monangahela and the Ohio's stream;
By wiles o'ercome the hapless hero fell,
His soul too gen'rous, for that dastard crew
Who kill unseen and shun the face of day.
Ambush'd in wood, and swamp and thick grown hill,
The bellowing tribes brought on the savage war.
What could avail O Braddock then the flame,
The gen'rous flame which fir'd thy martial soul!
What could avail Britannia's warlike troops,
Choice spirits of her isle? What could avail
America's own sons? The skulking foe,
Hid in the forest lay and sought secure,
What could the brave Virginians do o'erpower'd
By such vast numbers and their leader dead?
'Midst fire and death they bore him from the field,
Where in his blood full many a hero lay.
'Twas there O Halkut! thou so nobly fell,
Thrice valiant Halkut early son of fame!
We still deplore a fate so immature,
Fair Albion mourns thy unsuccesful end,
And Caledonia sheds a tear for him
Who led the bravest of her sons to war.
EUGENIO.
But why alas commemorate the dead?
And pass those glorious heroes by, who yet
Breathe the same air and see the light with us?
The dead, Acasto are but empty names
And he who dy'd to day the same to us
As he who dy'd a thousand years ago.
A Johnson lives, among the sons of same
Well known, conspicuous as the morning star
Among the lesser lights: A patriot skill'd
In all the glorious arts of peace of war.
He for Britannia gains the savage race,
Unstable as the sea, wild as the winds,
Cruel as death, and treacherous as hell,
Whom none but he by kindness yet could win,
None by humanity could gain their souls,
Or bring from woods and subteranean dens
The skulking crew, before a Johnson rose,
Pitying their num'rous tribes: ah how unlike
The Cortez' and Acosta's, pride of Spain
Whom blood and murder only satisfy'd.
Behold their doleful regions overflow'd
With gore, and blacken'd with ten thousand deaths
From Mexico to Patagonia far,
Where howling winds sweep round the southern cape,
And other suns and other stars arise!
ACASTO.
Such is the curse Eugenio where the soul
Humane is wanting, but we boast no seats
Of cruelty like Spain's unfeeling sons.
The British Epithet is merciful:
And we the sons of Britain learn like them
To conquer and to spare; for coward souls
Seek their revenge but on a vanquish'd foe.
Gold, fatal gold was the assuring bait
To Spain's rapacious mind, hence rose the wars
From Chili to the Caribbean sea,
O'er Terra-Firma and La Plata wide.
Peru then sunk in ruins, great before
With pompous cities, monuments superb
Whose tops reach'd heav'n. But we more happy boast
No golden metals in our peaceful land,
No flaming diamond, precious emerald,
Or blushing saphire, ruby, chrysolite
Or jasper red; more noble riches flow
From agriculture and th' industrious swain,
Who tills the fertile vale or mountain's brow,
Content to lead a safe, a humble life
'Midst his own native hills; romantic scenes,
Such as the muse of Greece did feign so well,
Envying their lovely bow'rs to mortal race.
LEANDER.
Long has the rural life been justly fam'd;
And poets old their pleasing pictures drew
Of flow'ry meads, and groves and gliding streams.
Hence old Arcadia, woodnymphs, satyrs, fauns,
And hence Elysium, fancy'd heav'n below.
Fair agriculture, not unworthy kings,
Once exercis'd the royal hand, or those
Whose virtue rais'd them to the rank of gods.
See old Laertes in his shepherd weeds,
Far from his pompous throne and court august,
Digging the grateful soil, where peaceful blows
The west wind murm'ring thro' the aged trees
Loaded with apples red, sweet scented peach
And each luxurious fruit the world affords,
While o'er the fields the harmless oxen draw
Th' industrious plough. The Roman heroes too
Fabricius and Camillus lov'd a life
Of sweet simplicity and rustic joy;
And from the busy Forum hast'ning far,
'Midst woods and fields spent the remains of age.
How grateful to behold the harvests rise
And mighty crops adorn the golden plains?
Fair plenty smiles throughout, while lowing herds
Stalk o'er the grassy hill or level mead,
Or at some winding river slake their thirst.
Thus fares the rustic swain; and when the winds
Blow with a keener breath, and from the North
Pour all their tempests thro' a sunless sky,
Ice, sleet and rattling hail, secure he sits
In some thatch'd cottage fearless of the storm;
While on the hearth a fire still blazing high
Chears every mind, and nature fits serene
On ev'ry countenance, such the joys
And such the fate of those whom heav'n hath bless'd
With souls enamour'd of a country life.
EUGENIO.
Much wealth and pleasure agriculture brings;
Far in the woods she raises palaces,
Puisant states and crowded realms where late
A desart plain or frowning wilderness
Deform'd the view; or where with moving tents
The scatter'd nations seeking pasturage,
Wander'd from clime to clime incultivate;
Or where a race more savage yet than these,
In search of prey o'er hill and mountain rang'd,
Fierce as the tygers and the wolves they flew.
Thus lives th' Arabian and the Tartar wild
In woody wastes which never felt the plough;
But agriculture crowns our happy land,
And plants our colonies from north to south,
From Cape Breton far as the Mexic bay
From th' Eastern shores to Missisippi's stream.
Famine to us unknown, rich plenty reigns
And pours her blessings with a lavish hand.
LEANDER.
Nor less from golden commerce flow the streams
Of richest plenty on our smiling land.
Now fierce Bellona must'ring all her rage,
To other climes and other seas withdraws,
To rouse the Russian on the desp'rate Turk
There to conflict by Danube and the straits
Which join the Euxine to th' Egean Sea.
Britannia holds the empire of the waves,
And welcomes ev'ry bold adventurer
To view the wonders of old Ocean's reign.
Far to the east our fleets on traffic sail,
And to the west thro' boundless seas which not
Old Rome nor Tyre nor mightier Carthage knew.
Daughter of commerce, from the hoary deep
New-York emerging rears her lofty domes,
And hails from far her num'rous ships of trade,
Like shady forests rising on the waves.
From Europe's shores or from the Caribbees,
Homeward returning annually they bring
The richest produce of the various climes.
And Philadelphia mistress of our world,
The seat of arts, of science, and of fame
Derives her grandeur from the pow'r of trade.
Hail happy city where the muses stray,
Where deep philosophy convenes her sons
And opens all her secrets to their view!
Bids them ascend with Newton to the skies,
And trace the orbits of the rolling spheres,
Survey the glories of the universe,
Its suns and moons and ever blazing stars!
Hail city blest with liberty's fair beams,
And with the rays of mild religion blest!
ACASTO.
Nor these alone, America, thy sons
In the short circle of a hundred years
Have rais'd with toil along thy shady shores.
On lake and bay and navigable stream,
From Cape Breton to Pensacola south,
Unnumber'd towns and villages arise,
By commerce nurs'd these embrio marts of trade
May yet awake the envy and obscure
The noblest cities of the eastern world;
For commerce is the mighty reservoir
From whence all nations draw the streams of gain.
'Tis commerce joins dissever'd worlds in one,
Confines old Ocean to more narrow bounds;
Outbraves his storms and peoples half his world.
EUGENIO.
And from the earliest times advent'rous man
On foreign traffic stretch'd the nimble sail;
Or sent the slow pac'd caravan afar
O'er barren wastes, eternal sands where not
The blissful haunt of human form is seen
Nor tree not ev'n funeral cypress sad
Nor bubbling fountain. Thus arriv'd of old
Golconda's golden ore, and thus the wealth
Of Ophir to the wisest of mankind.
LEANDER.
Great is the praise of commerce, and the men
Deserve our praise who spread from shore to shore
The flowing fall; great are their dangers too;
Death ever present to the fearless eye
And ev'ry billow but a gaping grave;
Yet all these mighty feats to science owe
Their rise and glory.--Hail fair science! thou
Transplanted from the eastern climes dost bloom
In these fair regions, Greece and Rome no more
Detain the muses on Cithæron's brow,
Or old Olympus crown'd with waving woods;
Or Hæmus' top where once was heard the harp,
Sweet Orpheus' harp that ravish'd hell below
And pierc'd the soul of Orcus and his bride,
That hush'd to silence by the song divine
Thy melancholy waters, and the gales
O Hebrus! which o'er thy sad surface blow.
No more the maids round Alpheus' waters stray
Where he with Arethusas' stream doth mix,
Or where swift Tiber disembogues his waves
Into th' Italian sea so long unsung.
Hither they've wing'd their way, the last, the best
Of countries where the arts shall rise and grow
Luxuriant, graceful; and ev'n now we boast
A Franklin skill'd in deep philosophy,
A genius piercing as th' electric fire,
Bright as the light'nings flash explain'd so well
By him the rival of Britannia's sage.
This is a land of ev'ry joyous sound
Of liberty and life; sweet liberty!
Without whose aid the noblest genius fails,
And science irretrievably must die.
ACASTO.
This is a land where the more noble light
Of holy revelation beams, the star
Which rose from Judah lights our skies, we feel
Its influence as once did Palestine
And Gentile lands, where now the ruthless Turk
Wrapt up in darkness sleeps dull life away.
Here many holy messengers of peace
As burning lamps have given light to men.
To thee, O Whitefield! favourite of Heav'n,
The muse would pay the tribute of a tear.
Laid in the dust thy eloquence no more
Shall charm the list'ning soul, no more
Thy bold imagination paint the scenes
Of woe and horror in the shades below;
Or glory radiant in the fields above;
No more thy charity relieve the poor;
Let Georgia mourn, let all her orphans weep.
LEANDER.
Yet tho' we wish'd him longer from the skies,
And wept to see the ev'ning of his days,
He long'd himself to reach his final hope,
The crown of glory for the just prepar'd.
From life's high verge he hail'd th' eternal shore
And, freed at last from his confinement, rose
An infant seraph to the worlds on high.
EUGENIO.
For him we sound the melancholy lyre,
The lyre responsive to each distant sigh;
No grief like that which mourns departing souls
Of holy, just and venerable men,
Whom pitying Heav'n sends from their native skies
To light our way and bring us nearer God.
But come Leander since we know the past
And present glory of this empire wide,
What hinders to pervade with searching eye
The mystic scenes of dark futurity?
Say shall we ask what empires yet must rise
What kingdoms pow'rs and states where now are seen
But dreary wastes and awful solitude,
Where melancholy sits with eye forlorn
And hopes the day when Britain's sons shall spread
Dominion to the north and south and west
Far from th' Atlantic to Pacific shores?
A glorious theme, but how shall mortals dare
To pierce the mysteries of future days,
And scenes unravel only known to fate.
ACASTO.
This might we do if warm'd by that bright coal
Snatch'd from the altar of seraphic fire,
Which touch'd Isaiah's lips, or if the spirit
Of Jeremy and Amos, prophets old,
Should fire the breast; but yet I call the muse
And what we can will do. I see, I see
A thousand kingdoms rais'd, cities and men
Num'rous as sand upon the ocean shore;
Th' Ohio then shall glide by many a town
Of note: and where the Missisippi stream
By forests shaded now runs weeping on
Nations shall grow and states not less in fame
Than Greece and Rome of old: we too shall boast
Our Alexanders, Pompeys, heroes, kings
That in the womb of time yet dormant lye
Waiting the joyful hour for life and light.
O snatch us hence, ye muses! to those days
When, through the veil of dark antiquity,
Our sons shall hear of us as things remote,
That blossom'd in the morn of days, alas!
How could I weep that we were born so soon,
In the beginning of more happy times!
But yet perhaps our fame shall last unhurt.
The sons of science nobly scorn to die
Immortal virtue this denies, the muse
Forbids the men to slumber in the grave
Who well deserve the praise that virtue gives.
EUGENIO.
'Tis true no human eye can penetrate
The veil obscure, and in fair light disclos'd
Behold the scenes of dark futurity;
Yet if we reason from the course of things,
And downward trace the vestiges of time,
The mind prophetic grows and pierces far
Thro' ages yet unborn. We saw the states
And mighty empires of the East arise
In swift succession from the Assyrian
To Macedon and Rome; to Britain thence
Dominion drove her car, she stretch'd her reign
Oer many isles, wide seas, and peopled lands.
Now in the West a continent appears;
A newer world now opens to her view;
She hastens onward to th' Americ shores
And bids a scene of recent wonders rise.
New states new empires and a line of kings,
High rais'd in glory, cities, palaces
Fair domes on each long bay, sea, shore or stream
Circling the hills now rear their lofty heads.
Far in the Arctic skies a Petersburgh,
A Bergen, or Archangel lifts its spires
Glitt'ring with Ice, far in the West appears
A new Palmyra or an Ecbatan,
And sees the slow pac'd caravan return
O'er many a realm from the Pacific shore,
Where fleets shall then convey rich Persia's silks,
Arabia's perfumes, and spices rare
Of Philippine, Coelebe and Marian isles,
Or from the Acapulco coast our India then,
Laden with pearl and burning gems and gold.
Far in the South I see a Babylon,
As once by Tigris or Euphrates stream,
With blazing watch towr's and observatories
Rising to heav'n; from thence astronomers
With optic glass take nobler views of God
In golden suns and shining worlds display'd
Than the poor Chaldean with the naked eye.
A Niniveh where Oronoque descends
With waves discolour'd from the Andes high,
Winding himself around a hundred isles
Where golden buildings glitter o'er his tide.
To mighty nations shall the people grow
Which cultivate the banks of many a flood,
In chrystal currents poured from the hills
Apalachia nam'd, to lave the sands
Of Carolina, Georgia, and the plains
Stretch'd out from thence far to the burning Line,
St Johns or Clarendon or Albemarle.
And thou Patowmack navigable stream,
Rolling thy waters thro' Virginia's groves,
Shall vie with Thames, the Tiber or the Rhine,
For on thy banks I see an hundred towns
And the tall vessels wafted down thy tide.
Hoarse Niagara's stream now roaring on
Thro' woods and rocks and broken mountains torn,
In days remote far from their antient beds,
By some great monarch taught a better course,
Or cleared of cataracts shall flow beneath
Unnumbr'd boats and merchandize and men;
And from the coasts of piny Labradore,
A thousand navies crowd before the gale,
And spread their commerce to remotest lands,
Or bear their thunder round the conquered world.
LEANDER.
And here fair freedom shall forever reign.
I see a train, a glorious train appear,
Of Patriots plac'd in equal fame with those
Who nobly fell for Athens or for Rome.
The sons of Boston resolute and brave
The firm supporters of our injur'd rights,
Shall lose their splendours in the brighter beams
Of patriots fam'd and heroes yet unborn.
ACASTO.
'Tis but the morning of the world with us
And Science yet but sheds her orient rays.
I see the age the happy age roll on
Bright with the splendours of her mid-day beams,
I see a Homer and a Milton rise
In all the pomp and majesty of song,
Which gives immortal vigour to the deeds
Atchiev'd by Heroes in the fields of fame.
A second Pope, like that Arabian bird
Of which no age can boast but one, may yet
Awake the muse by Schuylkill's silent stream,
And bid new forests bloom along her tide.
And Susquehanna's rocky stream unsung,
In bright meanders winding round the hills,
Where first the mountain nymph sweet echo heard
The uncouth musick of my rural lay,
Shall yet remurmur to the magic sound
Of song heroic, when in future days
Some noble Hambden rises into fame.
LEANDER.
Or Roanoke's and James's limpid waves
The sound of musick murmurs in the gale;
Another Denham celebrates their flow,
In gliding numbers and harmonious lays.
EUGENIO.
Now in the bow'rs of Tuscororah hills,
As once on Pindus all the muses stray,
New Theban bards high soaring reach the skies
And swim along thro' azure deeps of air.
LEANDER.
From Alleghany in thick groves imbrown'd,
Sweet music breathing thro' the shades of night
Steals on my ear, they sing the origin
Of those fair lights which gild the firmament;
From whence the gale that murmurs in the pines;
Why flows the stream down from the mountains brow
And rolls the ocean lower than the land.
They sing the final destiny of things,
The great result of all our labours here,
The last day's glory, and the world renew'd.
Such are their themes for in these happier days
The bard enraptur'd scorns ignoble strains,
Fair science smiling and full truth revealed,
The world at peace, and all her tumults o'er,
The blissful prelude to Emanuel's reign.
EUGENIO.
And when a train of rolling years are past,
(So sang the exil'd seer in Patmos isle,)
A new Jerusalem sent down from heav'n
Shall grace our happy earth, perhaps this land,
Whose virgin bosom shall then receive, tho' late,
Myriads of saints with their almighty king,
To live and reign on earth a thousand years
Thence call'd Millennium. Paradise a new
Shall flourish, by no second Adam lost.
No dang'rous tree or deathful fruit shall grow,
No tempting serpent to allure the soul,
From native innocence; a Canaan here
Another Canaan shall excel the old
And from fairer Pisgah's top be seen,
No thistle here or briar or thorn shall spring
Earth's curse before: the lion and the lamb
In mutual friendship link'd shall browse the shrub,
And tim'rous deer with rabid tygers stray
O'er mead or lofty hill or grassy plain.
Another Jordan's stream shall glide along
And Siloah's brook in circling eddies flow,
Groves shall adorn their verdant banks, on which
The happy people free from second death
Shall find secure repose; no fierce disease
No fevers, slow consumption, direful plague
Death's ancient ministers, again renew
Perpetual war with man: Fair fruits shall bloom
Fair to the eye, sweet to the taste, if such
Divine inhabitants could need the taste
Of elemental food, amid the joys
Fit for a heav'nly nature. Music's charms
Shall swell the lofty soul and harmony
Triumphant reign; thro' ev'ry grove shall sound
The cymbal and the lyre, joys too divine
For fallen man to know. Such days the world
And such America thou first shall have
When ages yet to come have run their round
And future years of bliss alone remain.
ACASTO.
This is thy praise America thy pow'r
Thou best of climes by science visited
By freedom blest and richly stor'd with all
The luxuries of life. Hail happy land
The seat of empire the abode of kings,
The final stage where time shall introduce
Renowned characters, and glorious works
Of high invention and of wond'rous art,
Which not the ravages of time shall wake
Till he himself has run his long career;
Till all those glorious orbs of light on high
The rolling wonders that surround the ball,
Drop from their spheres extinguish'd and consum'd;
When final ruin with her fiery car
Rides o'er creation, and all nature's works
Are lost in chaos and the womb of night.
Sunflower legions
lifted on green leafed shoulders
stare dark horizons.
'Tis the witching hour of night,
Orbed is the moon and bright,
And the stars they glisten, glisten,
Seeming with bright eyes to listen --
For what listen they?
For a song and for a charm,
See they glisten in alarm,
And the moon is waxing warm
To hear what I shall say.
Moon! keep wide thy golden ears --
Hearken, stars! and hearken, spheres! --
Hearken, thou eternal sky!
I sing an infant's lullaby,
A pretty lullaby.
Listen, listen, listen, listen,
Glisten, glisten, glisten, glisten,
And hear my lullaby!
Though the rushes that will make
Its cradle still are in the lake --
Though the linen that will be
Its swathe, is on the cotton tree --
Though the woollen that will keep
It warm, is on the silly sheep --
Listen, starlight, listen, listen,
Glisten, glisten, glisten, glisten,
And hear my lullaby!
Child, I see thee! Child, I've found thee
Midst of the quiet all around thee!
And thy mother sweet is nigh thee!
But a Poet evermore!
See, see, the lyre, the lyre,
In a flame of fire,
Upon the little cradle's top
Flaring, flaring, flaring,
Past the eyesight's bearing,
Awake it from its sleep,
And see if it can keep
Its eyes upon the blaze --
Amaze, amaze!
It stares, it stares, it stares,
It dares what no one dares!
It lifts its little hand into the flame
Unharm'd, and on the strings
Paddles a little tune, and sings,
With dumb endeavour sweetly --
Bard art thou completely!
Little child
O' th' western wild,
Bard art thou completely!
Sweetly with dumb endeavour,
A Poet now or never,
Little child
O' th' western wild,
A Poet now or never!
I HEAR CRY'S FOR HELP
AND BOMBS EXPLODE,
BUT IM SO FAR AWAY FROM HOME,
AMERICA I STAND HERE ALONE,
FIGHTING FOR PEACE
BUT SO FAR AWAY FROM HOME,
AMERICA I STAND WITH A GUN IN MY HAND,
FIGHTING FOR FREEDOM
WITH OUT A PLAN,
AMERICA DO YOU REALLY NEED ANOTHER WAR,
IM JUST A SOLDIER THAT COULDNT TAKE NO MORE...
7/28/09
Another beautiful day i thought as i arose from bed that day,
Not ever knowing things could turn out this distructive way.
As i entered the building with a smile on my face,
And i greeted the friends I, ve made in this place,
A glance at my watch made me quicken my pace.
Up in the elevator to floor 101,
My thoughts turned to pre - school & that of my son.
Grabbed a quick cuppa & settled at my desk,
File all the paperwork then tackle the rest.
All of a sudden without warning at all,
The whole building trembled & things began to fall.
At first we thought earth quake - get out fast,
But a look out the window confirmed a huge blast.
Something had crashed into the building we share,
With thousands of others - how would we fare?
We all started to panic, we screamed & yelled,
We knew this was bad & onto each other we held.
I grabbed my cell phone & dialed my love,
I asked him to pray to God above.
I asked him to kiss my little son,
And tell him his mummy, s number one.
People were jumping & taking thier lives,
We all knew we would never get out of here alive.
I got down on the floor & covered my face,
I didnt want to see what was about to take place.
Next thing i knew i was falling through concrete & steel,
This must be a nightmare, it just cant be real.
God how could they find me in all of this mess,
So many people - all in distress.
I, m feeling very tired, i ache & i bleed,
Im trapped in a concrete jungle
Can you not hear my plea, s.
I know feel peaceful, im drifting off to sleep,
Pray for the others with the tears you weep.
God bless America, my home sweet home,
Open up the stairway God -
This angel is commimg home...
Slowly the hours beyond the midnight crawl.
Far on the frozen night a train goes by.
I know there is no starlight in the sky,
But that concealing fog is over all,
Alike for stars and men a somber pall.
Remoter now, a cold, mechanic cry
Is signal, and the poplars stir and sigh,
As ranks that wait in vain the trumpet's call.
Now breaks the day on Belgium and France.
Over the shoulder of the world, I know
What rubrics gleam on the recording snow
(That page of Heaven's book that lay so pure!)
As, votive to the race's huge mischance,
Men die, O Liberty! that thou endure.
Life is cold
Life is shady
Ima Black in america
still getting treated like a second habd citizen
Life is so unfair
My flow is never heard
Never felt
Cause i am black in america
I study keeping flowing
creating styles
cause I cant stick with one style
But LIFE IS COLD
America still wont let me be happy
until they beat me
mentally
call me names
make me feel bad for being black
I am just going off
LIfe is shady
Ima done
with this
It’s all very well to dream of a dove that saves,
Picasso’s or the Pope’s,
The one that annually coos in Our Lady’s ear
Half the world’s hopes,
And the other one that shall cunningly engineer
The retirement of all businessmen to their graves,
And when this is brought about
Make us the loving brothers of every lout—
But in our part of the country a false dusk
Lingers for hours; it steams
From the soaked hay, wades in the cloudy woods,
Engendering other dreams.
Formless and soft beyond the fence it broods
Or rises as a faint and rotten musk
Out of a broken stalk.
There are some things of which we seldom talk;
For instance, the woman next door, whom we hear at night,
Claims that when she was small
She found a man stone dead near the cedar trees
After the first snowfall.
The air was clear. He seemed in ultimate peace
Except that he had no eyes. Rigid and bright
Upon the forehead, furred
With a light frost, crouched an outrageous bird.
Black Man In America for to long our chains held us so tight
beaten down as far as the dust chained to the night
Black Man In America can't you see
we free now at least physically
but freedom isn't free if we still enslaved mentally
Black Man In America stand up and let your voices be heard your families are calling you because they don't deserve to be deserted  or mistreated
let us be stronger than they because the greatest retalation is providing a successful way
for your black babies and mine to have a brighter day
they are calling out to you heed their cry and respond favorably to them saying here am I
Black Man In America we must continue to wage this fight and let our hands be strong and our fingers do the fightin'
Black Man In America a success you must become because without success our freedom wasn't really won
Black Man In America stand up and be heard its imperative for you to provide the light for a brighter day that your children so richly deserve
Black Man In America
A senseless act of hatred can change
Everything in a horrifying minute
It is impossible to understand
And so many lives are destroyed with it
Lives of wonderful cherished folks
Who tried to do what was right
And then it was suddenly over
There was never even a fight
We ask God to help us understand
What could bring about such hate
To someone they don’t even know
Who decides to change our fate
Oh, such hurt and unending pain
Is felt each and every day
Please, God, be with loved ones
And help in your unspoken way
The sadness is shared by so many
Giving things like flags and teddy bears
Loving notes to send their love
Brings forth so many tears
I have faith that God will help us
We will never forget what we saw
Forever strong and flowing
The precious blood of America!
Written in honor of the Oklahoma City bombing
My wish for today:
that poet friends were viewing
this, coffee in hand.
January
Vibrant cherries shine
ice covered branches glimmer
muted background same.
February
Sun swept red mountains
guard crowded boat marina
masts and poles worship.
March
Angry beach and sky
huge wave crashing red lighthouse
birds, helical fence.
April
Legions of sunflowers stare
lifted on green leafed shoulders
stormy horizon
May
Whimsical lighthouse
atop bouldered barren hill
flanked by two small sheds.
June
Last light of sunset
paints quiet water mosaic
small sailboat silent.
July
Chocolate mountain
snow sprinkles and pine tree stands
field of orange flowers.
August
Two wierd cacti hands
pierce upside down flaming pit
desert sunset awe.
September
Mountain, lake couple
reflecting one together
blue sky intrudes.
October
Inferno color
autumn trees dazzle senses
old fence and field yield.
November
Sheltering pine limbs
frame small misty lake island
morning's golden light.
December
Classic large red barn
pine and young elm trees surround
snow on roof and yard.
My poet friends
may you have all life's blessings
and enjoy nature.
Jim Norausky
Katy, Texas  January,2009
Against the eagled
Hemisphere
I lean my eager
Editorial ear
And what the devil
You think I hear?
I hear the Beat
No not of the heart
But the dull palpitation
Of the New Art
As, on the dead tread,
Mill of no mind,
It follows its leaders
Unbeaten behind.
O Kerouac Kerouac
What on earth shall we do
If a single Idea
Ever gets through?
. . . 1/2 an idea
To a hundred pages
Now Jack, dear Jack,
That ain't fair wages
For labouring through
Prose that takes ages
Just to announce
That Gods and Men
Ought all to study
The Book of Zen.
If you really think
So low of the soul
Why don't you write
On a toilet roll?
People united
To secure their liberty
Out of many, one
I've written a letter for anyone who cares where this great country of ours is heading.  It has bothered some on this poetry sight so much they have had it removed from the search engine, despite my many attempts at restoring it.  Why do they allow certain authors to lambaste our great country, while anyone trying to bring forth the truth is silenced?
The letter is entitled 'Our Liberty'
© 2011
America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America America freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom freedom haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku
Crossroads of this brave New World:
tiring - perhaps no longer young
Big city, rural city? central point -
refreshing - this nation's innovative belly
city of indigenous America, cosmopolitan
reflective - luminescent in waning light
hopeful in the new day dawning bright
still movement, raucous plains of crop
Gridded out on one mile square
soldiers and sailors commemorate
midpoint triumph at Monument Circle
no governor on this spot will reside
interstates intersect downtown - out of town;
glass-domed rotunda docile suspensions
champions cheer in the hall of White River
fast paced spin abouts at the Motor Speedway
To the eye of tourist local or overseas
- dimming star spangled glory revived
midway between coast to coast she lay
Who is there? Indianapolis, city fair.
1. ON A RHINE STEAMER.
Republic of the West,
Enlightened, free, sublime,
Unquestionably best
Production of our time.
The telephone is thine,
And thine the Pullman Car,
The caucus, the divine
Intense electric star.
To thee we likewise owe
The venerable names
Of Edgar Allan Poe,
And Mr. Henry James.
In short it's due to thee,
Thou kind of Western star,
That we have come to be
Precisely what we are.
But every now and then,
It cannot be denied,
You breed a kind of men
Who are not dignified,
Or courteous or refined,
Benevolent or wise,
Or gifted with a mind
Beyond the common size,
Or notable for tact,
Agreeable to me,
Or anything, in fact,
That people ought to be.
2. ON A PARISIAN BOULEVARD.
Britannia rules the waves,
As I have heard her say;
She frees whatever slaves
She meets upon her way.
A teeming mother she
Of Parliaments and Laws;
Majestic, mighty, free:
Devoid of common flaws.
For here did Shakspere write
His admirable plays:
For her did Nelson fight
And Wolseley win his bays.
Her sturdy common sense
Is based on solid grounds:
By saving numerous pence
She spends effective pounds.
The Saxon and the Celt
She equitably rules;
Her iron rod is felt
By countless knaves and fools.
In fact, mankind at large,
Black, yellow, white and red,
Is given to her in charge,
And owns her as a head.
But every here and there--
Deny it if you can--
She breeds a vacant stare
Unworthy of a man:
A look of dull surprise;
A nerveless idle hand:
An eye which never tries
To threaten or command:
In short, a kind of man,
If man indeed he be,
As worthy of our ban
As any that we see:
Unspeakably obtuse,
Abominably vain,
Of very little use,
And execrably plain.
And what of thee, O Lincoln's Land? What gloom
Is darkening above the Sunset Sea?
Vowed Champion of Liberty, deplume
Thy war-crest, bow thy knee,
Before God answer thee.
What talk is thine of rebels? Didst thou turn,
My very child, thy vaunted sword on me,
To scoff to-day at patriot fires that burn
In hearts unbound to thee,
Flames of the Sunset Sea?
god blessed america when he made the earth
god blessed america when he sent his son to sacrifise
god blessed america when he made us and
god blessed america when he made you
O Lord, our refuge and strength
When it's 'in God we trust'
The foe has struck your firstborn
With a great infamous thrust
Like history repeated
A Trojan Horse await
To massacre the blameless
A 'Nine-eleven' fate
They've dared defy an army
That does proclaim you Lord
Deliver US from their hand
Whet your glittering sword
Our Father who's in heaven
Shield US, your battle axe
Guard these in Thy replevin
Then Babylon do tax
Give US righteous victory
In Thy name, Lord of host
So that all the earth may know
'In God we trust' foremost
O Lord, our Rock and fortress
'Land of the Free' protect
Keep US strong 'til Shiloh come
Then on to Him collect
He maketh the wars to cease
Unto the end of earth
Breaketh bow, cut sunder spear
To chariots flame's birth
'Be calm, and know that I am God:
I will be exalted among the nations,
I will be exalted in the earth.'*
The Lord of hosts is with US
Our refuge we proclaim
Bless US in our endeavor
We ask in Jesus name
*Psalms 46: 10, Inspired by Jeremiah Chapters 50 and 51
© 2011
I Believe In America…., we’re a nation of hopes and dreams…..,
Sweet freedom will fill our needs…., I Believe In America.
I Believe In America…., I believe we must fight for peace….,
My faith in us will never cease…., I Believe In America.
With His strength from up above…,
We’ll prevail on our massive quest…,
Our nation breathes kindness and love…..,
We’ll lead our world to happiness.
I Believe In America…, we are united in democracy….,
Defeating evil and hypocrisy…., I Believe In America.
Our Lord is watching every move we make…..,
I know He’ll help us do our best….,
Guiding us with every step we take….,
Because our lives are truly blessed.
I Believe In America…., we’re a nation of hopes and dreams…..,
Sweet freedom will fill our needs…., I Believe In America.
Yes, I Believe In America.
I Hear America singing, the varied carols I hear;
Those of mechanics--each one singing his, as it should be, blithe and strong;
The carpenter singing his, as he measures his plank or beam,
The mason singing his, as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work;
The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat--the deckhand singing on the steamboat deck;
The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench--the hatter singing as he stands;
The wood-cutter's song--the ploughboy's, on his way in the morning, or at the noon intermission, or at sundown;
The delicious singing of the mother--or of the young wife at work--or of the girl sewing or washing--Each singing what belongs to her, and to none else;
The day what belongs to the day--At night, the party of young fellows, robust, friendly,
Singing, with open mouths, their strong melodious songs.
I know a dream called America -
That led to freedom - our precious -
freedom. That was won - That was won -
through - loneliness - hunger - blood-
Sweat - and tears. By your christian forefathers - who
Fought on with determination - through
The night - and through the day - till
The war was won. In the cold - cold - winter snow of
Seventeen-Seventy-Six - that won us
our freedom. Happy birthday America to everyone
Say a prayer for your country - everyone -
Give a helping hand - everyone - for the
Cause of freedom - everyone - let no one
take your freedom from this land - for
It is our hope - and our passport everyone -
And our golden gate - to the promised land -
Where our almighty God abides. - Happy birthday America - to everyone -
May we share - many many more. I know a dream called America -
That lead to Freedom - our precious Freedom. That was won - that was won -
Through loneliness - and hunger - blood -
Sweat - and tears Happy birthday America - to everyone -
Say a prayer for your country - everyone -
Give a helping hand - everyone - for the
Cause of Freedom from this land - for it's
Our hope - and your passport - everyone - and
Our golden gate - to the promised land -
Where Almighty God - abides.
I, too, sing America
The melody is quiet but still passes my lips
I am the elusive ingenue
The restless whisper of a wood nymph
You can hardly tell I'm there
Waiting quietly in my shell
For the right moment to emerge.
Baby boomers were cool;
Now Ninjas rule.
It’s America you fool.
Junk food;
Was cool dude.
Only joys no sorrow;
They consumed as if; no tomorrow.
Sub standard education;
In their social school.
Still; Its America you fool.
Dubya's wars;
Permanent scars.
Russia's gone;
Iraq stumped.
Against tough times;
Their economy bumped.
Its size aint miniscule;
It’s America you fool.
Big bangs;
Use of slangs.
Moral falls;
Haughty attitudes.
Roller coaster ride;
Changing vicissitudes.
On the top once;
Now at bottom they drool;
It’s America you fool..
No future in sight;
The corner's tight.
Their world’s dark;
Ours is bright.
They live on hopes;
Under Obama's rule;
Its America you fool.
Who knows from here;
Where they go?
The world debates the rates;
By which they shall grow.
Once fast; now very slow;
Shall they go.
Swelling debt, soaring crime;
Rest taken care by Subprime.
America aint no longer cool;
Its economics u fool.
Hybernate they shall, as I can see;
As there's no lunch that comes free.
An economy so agile;
Shall stay now low profile.
Till they rise and rise again;
After alleviation of their domestic pain
Hope and hope surely he brings;
After the fall as spring springs.
As he takes on the reigns today;
He knows the challenges that waylay.
New ties and new friends;
Hope with him the hostility ends;
Hope millions of hearts, he does rule;
It’s Obama, not bush u fool.
From the lectern;
As he speaks.
The floor under him firmly creaks;
Shake off the dust;
He says.
Expose yourself;
To sun's rays.
To work hard;
To save more;
So that one day;
America may again gleam.
With him he brings;
A new American dream.
First
one
foot
then gingerly
the other
steps
from
the swivel
chair
to the table top
where blindly you
fiddle with the slats
caught - now - un-caught -
still sleepy
I turn to see you
naked against
skyscrapers
& mewing like a kitty
stuck up a tree.
'Help ne... help me
down! '
as the swivel chair
spins around and
away.
You look so
good
I look
twice
before taking
your nakedness
in hand
lowering you
gently to the ground
& then ever more
gently to the bed.
You purr
Outside
New York
continues to be
New York.
Times Square
...Time Squares.
The sound
of kisses
overcoming
the traffic's
roar.
*******
The Sheraton New York & Towers Hotel...midnight...Christmas Eve's eve.2009
Let America be America again.
Let it be the dream it used to be.
Let it be the pioneer on the plain
Seeking a home where he himself is free.
(America never was America to me.)
Let America be the dream the dreamers dreamed--
Let it be that great strong land of love
Where never kings connive nor tyrants scheme
That any man be crushed by one above.
(It never was America to me.)
O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe.
(There's never been equality for me,
Nor freedom in this "homeland of the free.")
Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark?
And who are you that draws your veil across the stars?
I am the poor white, fooled and pushed apart,
I am the Negro bearing slavery's scars.
I am the red man driven from the land,
I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek--
And finding only the same old stupid plan
Of dog eat dog, of mighty crush the weak.
I am the young man, full of strength and hope,
Tangled in that ancient endless chain
Of profit, power, gain, of grab the land!
Of grab the gold! Of grab the ways of satisfying need!
Of work the men! Of take the pay!
Of owning everything for one's own greed!
I am the farmer, bondsman to the soil.
I am the worker sold to the machine.
I am the Negro, servant to you all.
I am the people, humble, hungry, mean--
Hungry yet today despite the dream.
Beaten yet today--O, Pioneers!
I am the man who never got ahead,
The poorest worker bartered through the years.
Yet I'm the one who dreamt our basic dream
In the Old World while still a serf of kings,
Who dreamt a dream so strong, so brave, so true,
That even yet its mighty daring sings
In every brick and stone, in every furrow turned
That's made America the land it has become.
O, I'm the man who sailed those early seas
In search of what I meant to be my home--
For I'm the one who left dark Ireland's shore,
And Poland's plain, and England's grassy lea,
And torn from Black Africa's strand I came
To build a "homeland of the free."
The free?
Who said the free? Not me?
Surely not me? The millions on relief today?
The millions shot down when we strike?
The millions who have nothing for our pay?
For all the dreams we've dreamed
And all the songs we've sung
And all the hopes we've held
And all the flags we've hung,
The millions who have nothing for our pay--
Except the dream that's almost dead today.
O, let America be America again--
The land that never has been yet--
And yet must be--the land where every man is free.
The land that's mine--the poor man's, Indian's, Negro's, ME--
Who made America,
Whose sweat and blood, whose faith and pain,
Whose hand at the foundry, whose plow in the rain,
Must bring back our mighty dream again.
Sure, call me any ugly name you choose--
The steel of freedom does not stain.
From those who live like leeches on the people's lives,
We must take back our land again,
America!
O, yes,
I say it plain,
America never was America to me,
And yet I swear this oath--
America will be!
Out of the rack and ruin of our gangster death,
The rape and rot of graft, and stealth, and lies,
We, the people, must redeem
The land, the mines, the plants, the rivers.
The mountains and the endless plain--
All, all the stretch of these great green states--
And make America again!
I
Now farewell to you! you are
One of my dearest, whom I trust:
Now follow you the Western star,
And cast the old world off as dust.
II
From many friends adieu! adieu!
The quick heart of the word therein.
Much that we hope for hangs with you:
We lose you, but we lose to win.
III
The beggar-king, November, frets:
His tatters rich with Indian dyes
Goes hugging: we our season's debts
Pay calmly, of the Spring forewise.
IV
We send our worthiest; can no less,
If we would now be read aright, -
To that great people who may bless
Or curse mankind: they have the might.
V
The proudest seasons find their graves,
And we, who would not be wooed, must court.
We have let the blunderers and the waves
Divide us, and the devil had sport.
VI
The blunderers and the waves no more
Shall sever kindred sending forth
Their worthiest from shore to shore
For welcome, bent to prove their worth.
VII
Go you and such as you afloat,
Our lost kinsfellowship to revive.
The battle of the antidote
Is tough, though silent: may you thrive!
VIII
I, when in this North wind I see
The straining red woods blown awry,
Feel shuddering like the winter tree,
All vein and artery on cold sky.
IX
The leaf that clothed me is torn away;
My friend is as a flying seed.
Ay, true; to bring replenished day
Light ebbs, but I am bare, and bleed.
X
What husky habitations seem
These comfortable sayings! they fell,
In some rich year become a dream:-
So cries my heart, the infidel! . . .
XI
Oh! for the strenuous mind in quest,
Arabian visions could not vie
With those broad wonders of the West,
And would I bid you stay? Not I!
XII
The strange experimental land
Where men continually dare take
Niagara leaps;--unshattered stand
'Twixt fall and fall;--for conscience' sake,
XIII
Drive onward like a flood's increase; -
Fresh rapids and abysms engage; -
(We live--we die) scorn fireside peace,
And, as a garment, put on rage,
XIV
Rather than bear God's reprimand,
By rearing on a full fat soil
Concrete of sin and sloth;--this land,
You will observe it coil in coil.
XV
The land has been discover'd long,
The people we have yet to know;
Themselves they know not, save that strong
For good and evil still they grow.
XVI
Nor know they us. Yea, well enough
In that inveterate machine
Through which we speak the printed stuff
Daily, with voice most hugeous, mien
XVII
Tremendous:- as a lion's show
The grand menagerie paintings hide:
Hear the drum beat, the trombones blow!
The poor old Lion lies inside! . . .
XVIII
It is not England that they hear,
But mighty Mammon's pipers, trained
To trumpet out his moods, and stir
His sluggish soul: HER voice is chained:
XIX
Almost her spirit seems moribund!
O teach them, 'tis not she displays
The panic of a purse rotund,
Eternal dread of evil days, -
XX
That haunting spectre of success
Which shows a heart sunk low in the girths:
Not England answers nobleness, -
'Live for thyself: thou art not earth's.'
XXI
Not she, when struggling manhood tries
For freedom, air, a hopefuller fate,
Points out the planet, Compromise,
And shakes a mild reproving pate:
XXII
Says never: 'I am well at ease,
My sneers upon the weak I shed:
The strong have my cajoleries:
And those beneath my feet I tread.'
XXIII
Nay, but 'tis said for her, great Lord!
The misery's there! The shameless one
Adjures mankind to sheathe the sword,
Herself not yielding what it won:-
XXIV
Her sermon at cock-crow doth preach,
On sweet Prosperity--or greed.
'Lo! as the beasts feed, each for each,
God's blessings let us take, and feed!'
XXV
Ungrateful creatures crave a part -
She tells them firmly she is full;
Lost sheared sheep hurt her tender heart
With bleating, stops her ears with wool:-
XXVI
Seized sometimes by prodigious qualms
(Nightmares of bankruptcy and death), -
Showers down in lumps a load of alms,
Then pants as one who has lost a breath;
XXVII
Believes high heaven, whence favours flow,
Too kind to ask a sacrifice
For what it specially doth bestow; -
Gives SHE, 'tis generous, cheese to mice.
XXVIII
She saw the young Dominion strip
For battle with a grievous wrong,
And curled a noble Norman lip,
And looked with half an eye sidelong;
XXIX
And in stout Saxon wrote her sneers,
Denounced the waste of blood and coin,
Implored the combatants, with tears,
Never to think they could rejoin.
XXX
Oh! was it England that, alas!
Turned sharp the victor to cajole?
Behold her features in the glass:
A monstrous semblance mocks her soul!
XXXI
A false majority, by stealth,
Have got her fast, and sway the rod:
A headless tyrant built of wealth,
The hypocrite, the belly-God.
XXXII
To him the daily hymns they raise:
His tastes are sought: his will is done:
He sniffs the putrid steam of praise,
Place for true England here is none!
XXXIII
But can a distant race discern
The difference 'twixt her and him?
My friend, that will you bid them learn.
He shames and binds her, head and limb.
XXXIV
Old wood has blossoms of this sort.
Though sound at core, she is old wood.
If freemen hate her, one retort
She has; but one!--'You are my blood.'
XXXV
A poet, half a prophet, rose
In recent days, and called for power.
I love him; but his mountain prose -
His Alp and valley and wild flower -
XXXVI
Proclaimed our weakness, not its source.
What medicine for disease had he?
Whom summoned for a show of force?
Our titular aristocracy!
XXXVII
Why, these are great at City feasts;
From City riches mainly rise:
'Tis well to hear them, when the beasts
That die for us they eulogize!
XXXVIII
But these, of all the liveried crew
Obeisant in Mammon's walk,
Most deferent ply the facial screw,
The spinal bend, submissive talk.
XXXIX
Small fear that they will run to books
(At least the better form of seed)!
I, too, have hoped from their good looks,
And fables of their Northman breed; -
XL
Have hoped that they the land would head
In acts magnanimous; but, lo,
When fainting heroes beg for bread
They frown: where they are driven they go.
XLI
Good health, my friend! and may your lot
Be cheerful o'er the Western rounds.
This butter-woman's market-trot
Of verse is passing market-bounds.
XLII
Adieu! the sun sets; he is gone.
On banks of fog faint lines extend:
Adieu! bring back a braver dawn
To England, and to me my friend.
Long, too long America,
Traveling roads all even and peaceful you learn'd from joys and prosperity only,
But now, ah now, to learn from crises of anguish, advancing, grappling with direst fate and recoiling not,
And now to conceive and show to the world what your children en-masse really are,
(For who except myself has yet conceiv'd what your children en-masse really are?)
'Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land,
Taught my benighted soul to understand
That there's a God, that there's a Saviour too:
Once I redemption neither sought nor knew.
Some view our sable race with scornful eye,
"Their colour is a diabolic die."
Remember, Christians, Negro's, black as Cain,
May be refin'd, and join th' angelic train.
ONE song, America, before I go,
I'd sing, o'er all the rest, with trumpet sound,
For thee--the Future.
I'd sow a seed for thee of endless Nationality;
I'd fashion thy Ensemble, including Body and Soul;
I'd show, away ahead, thy real Union, and how it may be accomplish'd.
(The paths to the House I seek to make,
But leave to those to come, the House itself.)
Belief I sing--and Preparation;
As Life and Nature are not great with reference to the Present
only,                                                        10
But greater still from what is yet to come,
Out of that formula for Thee I sing.
WITNESS FOR TROUT FISHING
IN AMERICA PEACE
In San Francisco around Easter time last year, they had a
trout fishing in America peace parade. They had thousands
of red stickers printed and they pasted them on their small
foreign cars, and on means of national communication like
telephone poles.
The stickers had WITNESS FOR TROUT FISHING IN AM-
ERICA PEACE printed on them.
Then this group of college- and high-school-trained Com-
munists, along with some Communist clergymen and their
Marxist-taught children, marched to San Francisco from
Sunnyvale, a Communist nerve center about forty miles away.
It took them four days to walk to San Francisco. They
stopped overnight at various towns along the way, and slept
on the lawns of fellow travelers.
They carried with them Communist trout fishing in Ameri-
ca peace propaganda posters:
"DON'T DROP AN H-BOMB ON THE OLD FISHING HOLE I"
"ISAAC WALTON WOULD'VE HATED THE BOMB!"
"ROYAL COACHMAN, SI! ICBM, NO!"
They carried with them many other trout fishing in Amer-
ica peace inducements, all following the Communist world
conquest line: the Gandhian nonviolence Trojan horse.
When these young, hard-core brainwashed members of
the Communist conspiracy reached the "Panhandle, " the
emigre Oklahoma Communist sector of San Francisco, thou-
sands of other Communists were waiting for them. These
were Communists who couldn't walk very far. They barely
had enough strength to make it downtown.
Thousands of Communists, protected by the police, marched
down to Union Square, located in the very heart of San Fran-
cisco. The Communist City Hall riots in 1960 had presented
evidence of it, the police let hundreds of Communists escape,
but the trout fishing in America peace parade was the final
indictment: police protection.
Thousands of Communists marched right into the heart of
San Francisco, and Communist speakers incited them for
hours and the young people wanted to blow up Colt Tower, but
the Communist clergy told them to put away their plastic
bombs.
"Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should
do to you, do ye even so to them . . . There will be no need
for explosives, " they said.
America needs no other proof. The Red shadow of the
Gandhian nonviolence Trojan horse has fallen across Ameri-
ca, and San Francisco is its stable.
Obsolete is the mad rapist's legendary piece of candy. At
this very moment, Communist agents are handing out Witness
for trout fishing in America peace tracts to innocent children
riding the cable cars.
THE COVER FOR
TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA
The cover for Trout Fishing in America is a photograph taken
late in the afternoon, a photograph of the Benjamin Franklin
statue in San Francisco's Washington Square.
Born 1706--Died 1790, Benjamin Franklin stands on a
pedestal that looks like a house containing stone furniture.
He holds some papers in one hand and his hat in the other.
Then the statue speaks, saying in marble:
PRESENTED BY
H. D. COGSWELL
TO OUR
BOYS AND GIRLS
WHO WILL SOON
TAKE OUR PLACES
AND PASS ON.
Around the base of the statue are four words facing the
directions of this world, to the east WELCOME, to the west
WELCOME, to the north WELCOME, to the south WELCOME.
Just behind the statue are three poplar trees, almost leafless
except for the top branches. The statue stands in front
of the middle tree. All around the grass is wet from the
rains of early February.
In the background is a tall cypress tree, almost dark like
a room. Adlai Stevenson spoke under the tree in 1956, before
a crowd of 40, 000 people.
There is a tall church across the street from the statue
with crosses, steeples, bells and a vast door that looks like
a huge mousehole, perhaps from a Tom and Jerry cartoon,
and written above the door is 'Per L'Universo.'
Around five o'clock in the afternoon of my cover for
Trout Fishing in America, people gather in the park across
the street from the church and they are hungry.
It's sandwich time for the poor.
But they cannot cross the street until the signal is given.
Then they all run across the street to the church and get
their sandwiches that are wrapped in newspaper. They go
back to the park and unwrap the newspaper and see what their
sandwiches are all about.
A friend of mine unwrapped his sandwich one afternoon
and looked inside to find just a leaf of spinach. That was all.
Was it Kafka who learned about America by reading the
autobiography of Benjamin Franklin..............
Kafka who said, 'I like the Americans because they are healthy
and optimistic.'
ANOTHER METHOD
OF MAKING WALNUT CATSUP
And this is a very small cookbook for Trout Fishing in America
as if Trout Fishing in America were a rich gourmet and
Trout Fishing in America had Maria Callas for a girlfriend
and they ate together on a marble table with beautiful candles.
Compote of Apples
Take a dozen of golden pippins, pare them
nicely and take the core out with a small
penknife; put them into some water, and
let them be well scalded; then take a little
of the water with some sugar, and a few
apples which may be sliced into it, and
let the whole boil till it comes to a syrup;
then pour it over your pippins, and garnish
them with dried cherries and lemon-peel
cut fine. You must take care that your
pippins are not split.
And Maria Callas sang to Trout Fishing in America as
they ate their apples together.
A Standing Crust for Great Pies
Take a peck of flour and six pounds of butter
boiled in a gallon of water: skim it off into
the flour, and as little of the liquor as you
can. Work it up well into a paste, and then
pull it into pieces till it is cold. Then make
it up into what form you please.
And Trout Fishing in America smiled at Maria Callas as
they ate their pie crust together.
A  Spoonful Pudding
Take a spoonful of flour, a spoonful of
cream or milk, an egg, a little nutmeg,
ginger, and salt. Mix all together, and
boil it in a little wooden dish half an hour.
If you think proper you may add a few
currants .
And Trout Fishing in America said, "The moon's coming
out." And Maria Callas said, "Yes, it is."
Another Method of Making Walnut Catsup
Take green walnuts before the shell is
formed, and grind them in a crab-mill,
or pound them in a marble mortar.
Squeeze out the juice through a coarse
cloth, and put to every gallon of juice
a pound of anchovies, and the same
quantity of bay-salt, four ounces of
Jamaica pepper, two of long and two of
black pepper; of mace, cloves, and
ginger, each an ounce, and a stick of
horseradish. Boil all together till
reduced to half the quantity, and then
put it into a pot. When it is cold, bottle
it close, and in three months it will be
fit for use.
And Trout Fishing in America and Maria Callas poured
walnut catsup on their hamburgers.
PROLOGUE TO GRIDER CREEK
Mooresville, Indiana, is the town that John Dillinger came
from, and the town has a John Dillinger Museum. You can
go in and look around.
Some towns are known as the peach capital of America or
the cherry capital or the oyster capital, and there's always
a festival and the photograph of a pretty girl in a bathing suit.
Mooresville, Indiana, is the John Dillinger capital of America.
Recently a man moved there with his wife, and he discovered
hundreds of rats in his basement. They were huge, slowmoving
child-eyed rats.
When his wife had to visit some of her relatives for a few
days, the man went out and bought a .38 revolver and a lot
of ammunition. Then he went down to the basement where
the rats were, and he started shooting them. It didn't bother
the rats at all. They acted as if it were a movie and started
eating their dead companions for popcorn.
The man walked over to a rat that was busy eating a friend
and placed the pistol against the rat's head. The rat did not
move and continued eating away. When the hammer clicked
back, the rat paused between bites and looked out of the corner
of its eye. First at the pistol and then at the man. It was a kind
of friendly look as if to say, "When my mother was young she
sang like Deanna Durbin. "
The man pulled the trigger.
He had no sense of humor.
There's always a single feature, a double feature and an
eternal feature playing at the Great Theater in Mooresville,
Indiana: the John Dillinger capital of America.
SEA, SEA RIDER
The man who owned the bookstore was not magic. He was not a
three-legged crow on the dandelion side of the mountain.
He was, of course, a Jew, a retired merchant seaman
who had been torpedoed in the North Atlantic and floated
there day after day until death did not want him. He had a
young wife, a heart attack, a Volkswagen and a home in
Marin County. He liked the works of George Orwell, Richard
Aldington and Edmund Wilson.
He learned about life at sixteen, first from Dostoevsky
and then from the whores of New Orleans.
The bookstore was a parking lot for used graveyards.
Thousands of graveyards were parked in rows like cars.
Most of the kooks were out of print, and no one wanted to
read them any more and the people who had read the books
had died or forgotten about them, but through the organic
process of music the books had become virgins again. They
wore their ancient copyrights like new maidenheads.
I went to the bookstore in the afternoons after I got off
work, during that terrible year of 1959.
He had a kitchen in the back of the store and he brewed
cups of thick Turkish coffee in a copper pan. I drank coffee
and read old books and waited for the year to end. He had a
small room above the kitchen.
It looked down on the bookstore and had Chinese screens
in front of it. The room contained a couch, a glass cabinet
with Chinese things in it and a table and three chairs. There
was a tiny bathroom fastened like a watch fob to the room.
I was sitting on a stool in the bookstore one afternoon
reading a book that was in the shape of a chalice. The book
had clear pages like gin, and the first page in the book read:
Billy
the Kid
born
November 23,
1859
in
New York
City
The owner of the bookstore came up to me, and put his
arm on my shoulder and said, "Would you like to get laid?"
His voice was very kind.
"No, " I said.
"You're wrong, " he said, and then without saying anything
else, he went out in front of the bookstore, and stopped a pair
of total strangers, a man and a woman. He talked to them for
a few moments. I couldn't hear what he was saying. He pointed
at me in the bookstore. The woman nodded her head and
then the man nodded his head.
They came into the bookstore.
I was embarrassed. I could not leave the bookstore because
they were entering by the only door, so I decided to go
upstairs and go to the toilet. I got up abruptly and walked
to the back of the bookstore and went upstairs to the bathroom,
and they followed after me. I could hear them on the stairs.
I waited for a long time in the bathroom and they waited
an equally long time in the other room. They never spoke.
When I came out of the bathroom, the woman was lying naked
on the couch, and the man was sitting in a chair with his
hat on his lap.
"Don't worry about him, " the girl said. "These things
make no difference to him. He's rich. He has 3, 859 Rolls
Royces." The girl was very pretty and her body was like a
clear mountain river of skin and muscle flowing over rocks
of bone and hidden nerves.
"Come to me, " she said. "And come inside me for we are
Aquarius and I love you."
I looked at the man sitting in the chair. He was not smiling
and he did not look sad.
I took off my shoes and all my clothes. The man did not
say a word.
The girl's body moved ever so slightly from side to side.
There was nothing else I could do for my body was like
birds sitting on a telephone wire strung out down the world,
clouds tossing the wires carefully.
I laid the girl.
It was like the eternal 59th second when it becomes a minute
and then looks kind of sheepish.
"Good, " the girl said, and kissed me on the face.
The man sat there without speaking or moving or sending
out any emotion into the room. I guess he was rich and owned
3, 859 Rolls Royces.
Afterwards the girl got dressed and she and the man left.
They walked down the stairs and on their way out, I heard
him say his first words.
"Would you like to go to Emie's for dinner?"
"I don't know, " the girl said. "It's a little early to think
about dinner. "
Then I heard the door close and they were gone. I got
dressed and went downstairs. The flesh about my body felt
soft and relaxed like an experiment in functional background
music.
The owner of the bookstore was sitting at his desk behind
the counter. "I'11 tell you what happened up there, " he said,
in a beautiful anti-three-legged-crow voice, in an anti-dandelion
side of the mountain voice.
"What?"I said.
"You fought in the Spanish Civil War. You were a young
Communist from Cleveland, Ohio. She was a painter. A New
York Jew who was sightseeing in the Spanish Civil War as if
it were the Mardi Gras in New Orleans being acted out by
Greek statues.
"She was drawing a picture of a dead anarchist when you
met her. She asked you to stand beside the anarchist and act
as if you had killed him. You slapped her across the face
and said something that would be embarrassing for me to
repeat.
You both fell very much in love.
"Once while you were at the front she read Anatomy of
Melancholy and did 349 drawings of a lemon.
"Your love for each other was mostly spiritual.Neither
one of you performed like millionaires in bed.
"When Barcelona fell, you and she flew to England, and
then took a ship back to New York. Your love for each other
remained in Spain. It was only a war love. You loved only
yourselves, loving each other in Spain during the war. On
the Atlantic you were different toward each other and became
every day more and more like people lost from each other.
"Every wave on the Atlantic was like a dead seagull dragging
its driftwood artillery from horizon to horizon.
"When the ship bumped up against America, you departed
without saying anything and never saw each other again. The
last I heard of you, you were still living in Philadelphia. "
"That's what you think happened up there?" I said.
"Partly, " he said. "Yes, that's part of it. "
He took out his pipe and filled it with tobacco and lit it.
"Do you want me to tell you what else happened up there?"
he said.
"Go ahead."
"You crossed the border into Mexico, " he said. "You
rode your horse into a small town. The people knew who
you were and they were afraid of you. They knew you had
killed many men with that gun you wore at your side. The
town itself was so small that it didn't have a priest.
"When the rurales saw you, they left the town. Tough as
they were, they did not want to have anything to do with you.
The rurales left.
You became the most powerful man in town.
You were seduced by a thirteen-year-old girl, and you
and she lived together in an adobe hut, and practically all
you did was make love.
"She was slender and had long dark hair. You made love
standing, sitting, lying on the dirt floor with pigs and chickens
around you. The walls, the floor and even the roof of the
hut were coated with your sperm and her come.
"You slept on the floor at night and used your sperm for
a pillow and her come for a blanket.
"The people in the town were so afraid of you that they
could do nothing.
"After a while she started going around town without any
clothes on, and the people of the town said that it was not a
good thing, and when you started going around without any
clothes, and when both of you began making love on the back
of your horse in the middle of the zocalo, the people of the
town became so afraid that they abandoned the town. It's
been abandoned ever since. "People won't live there.
"Neither of you lived to be twenty-one. It was not neces-
sary.
"See, I do know what happened upstairs, " he said. He
smiled at me kindly. His eyes were like the shoelaces of a
harpsichord.
I thought about what happened upstairs.
"You know what I say is the truth, " he said. "For you
saw it with your own eyes and traveled it with your own body.
Finish the book you were reading before you were interrupted.
I'm glad you got laid. "
Once resumed the pages of the book began to speed up
and turn faster and faster until they were spinning like wheels
in the sea.
THE AUTOPSY OF
TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA
This is the autopsy of Trout Fishing in America as if Trout
Fishing in America had been Lord Byron and had died in
Missolonghi, Greece, and afterward never saw the shores
of Idaho again, never saw Carrie Creek, Worsewick Hot
Springs, Paradise Creek, Salt Creek and Duck Lake again.
The Autopsy of Trout Fishing in America:
"The body was in excellent state and appeared as one that
had died suddenly of asphyxiation. The bony cranial vault
was opened and the bones of the cranium were found very
hard without any traces of the sutures like the bones of a
person 80 years, so much so that one would have said that
the cranium was formed by one solitary bone. . . . The
meninges were attached to the internal walls of the cranium
so firmly that while sawing the bone around the interior to
detach the bone from the dura the strength of two robust men
was not sufficient. . . . The cerebrum with cerebellum
weighed about six medical pounds. The kidneys were very
large but healthy and the urinary bladder was relatively
small. "
On May 2, 1824, the body of Trout Fishing in America
left Missolonghi by ship destined to arrive in England on the
evening of June 29, 1824.
Trout Fishing in America's body was preserved in a cask
holding one hundred-eighty gallons of spirits: 0, a long way
from Idaho, a long way from Stanley Basin, Little Redfish
Lake, the Big Lost River and from Lake Josephus and the
Big Wood River.
WORSEWICK
Worsewick Hot Springs was nothing fancy. Somebody put some
boards across the creek. That was it.
The boards dammed up the creek enough to form a huge
bathtub there, and the creek flowed over the top of the boards,
invited like a postcard to the ocean a thousand miles away.
As I said Worsewick was nothing fancy, not like the
places where the swells go. There were no buildings around.
We saw an old shoe lying by the tub.
The hot springs came down off a hill and where they flowed
there was a bright orange scum through the sagebrush. The
hot springs flowed into the creek right there at the tub and
that' s where it was nice.
We parked our car on the dirt road and went down and took
off our clothes, then we took off the baby's clothes, and the
deerflies had at us until we got into the water, and then they
stopped.
There was a green slime growing around the edges of the
tub and there were dozens of dead fish floating in our bath.
Their bodies had been turned white by death, like frost on
iron doors. Their eyes were large and stiff.
The fish had made the mistake of going down the creek too
far and ending up in hot water, singing, "When you lose your
money, learn to lose."
We played and relaxed in the water. The green slime and
the dead fish played and relaxed with us and flowed out over
us and entwined themselves about us.
Splashing around in that hot water with my woman, I began
to get ideas, as they say. After a while I placed my body in
such a position in the water that the baby could not see my
hard-on.
I did this by going deeper and deeper in the water, like a
dinosaur, and letting the green slime and dead fish cover me
over.
My woman took the baby out of the water and gave her a
bottle and put her back in the car. The baby was tired. It was
really time for her to take a nap.
My woman took a blanket out of the car and covered up the
windows that faced the hot springs. She put the blanket ontop
of the car and then lay rocks on the blanket to hold it in place.
I remember her standing there by the car.
Then she came back to the water, and the deerflies were
at her, and then it was my turn. After a while she said, "I
don't have my diaphragm with me and besides it wouldn't
work in the water, anyway. I think it's a good idea if you
don't come inside me. What do you think?"
I thought this over and said all right. I didn't want any
more kids for a long time. The green slime and dead fish
were all about our bodies.
I remember a dead fish floated under her neck. I waited
for it to come up on the other side, and it came up on the
other side.
Worsewick was nothing fancy.
Then I came, and just cleared her in a split secondlike
an airplane in the movies, pulling out of a nosedive and sail-
ing over the roof of a school.
My sperm came out into the water, unaccustomed to the
light, and instantly it became a misty, stringy kind of thing
and swirled out like a falling star, and I saw a dead fishcome
forward and float into my sperm, bending it in the middle.
His eyes were stiff like iron.
THE HUNCHBACK TROUT
The creek was made narrow by little green trees that grew
too close together. The creek was like 12, 845 telephone
booths in a row with high Victorian ceilings and all the doors
taken off and all the backs of the booths knocked out.
Sometimes when I went fishing in there, I felt just like a
telephone repairman, even though I did not look like one. I
was only a kid covered with fishing tackle, but in some
strange way by going in there and catching a few trout, I
kept the telephones in service. I was an asset to society.
It was pleasant work, but at times it made me uneasy.
It could grow dark in there instantly when there were some
clouds in the sky and they worked their way onto the sun.
Then you almost needed candles to fish by, and foxfire in
your reflexes.
Once I was in there when it started raining. It was dark
and hot and steamy. I was of course on overtime. I had that
going in my favor. I caught seven trout in fifteen minutes.
The trout in those telephone booths were good fellows.
There were a lot of young cutthroat trout six to nine inches
long, perfect pan size for local calls. Sometimes there
were a few fellows, eleven inches or so--for the long dis-
tance calls.
I've always liked cutthroat trout. They put up a good fight,
running against the bottom and then broad jumping. Under
their throats they fly the orange banner of Jack the Ripper.
Also in the creek were a few stubborn rainbow trout, sel-
dom heard from, but there all the same, like certified pub-
lic accountants. I'd catch one every once in a while. They
were fat and chunky, almost as wide as they were long. I've
heard those trout called "squire" trout.
It used to take me about an hour to hitchhike to that creek.
There was a river nearby. The river wasn't much. The creek
was where I punched in. Leaving my card above the clock
I'd punch out again when it was time to go home.
I remember the afternoon I caught the hunchback trout.
A farmer gave me a ride in a truck. He picked me up at
a traffic signal beside a bean field and he never said a word
to me.
His stopping and picking me up and driving me down the
road was as automatic a thing to him as closing the barn
door, nothing need be said about it, but still I was in motion
traveling thirty-five miles an hour down the road, watching
houses and groves of trees go by, watching chickens and
mailboxes enter and pass through my vision.
Then I did not see any houses for a while. "This is where
I get out, " I said.
The farmer nodded his head. The truck stopped.
"Thanks a lot, " I said.
The farmer did not ruin his audition for the Metropolitan
Opera by making a sound. He just nodded his head again.
The truck started up. He was the original silent old farmer.
A little while later I was punching in at the creek. I put
my card above the clock and went into that long tunnel of
telephone booths.
I waded about seventy-three telephone booths in. I caught
two trout in a little hole that was like a wagon wheel. It was
one of my favorite holes, and always good for a trout or two.
I always like to think of that hole as a kind of pencil
sharpener. I put my reflexes in and they came back out with
a good point on them. Over a period of a couple of years, I
must have caught fifty trout in that hole, though it was only
as big as a wagon wheel.
I was fishing with salmon eggs and using a size 14 single
egg hook on a pound and a quarter test tippet. The two trout
lay in my creel covered entirely by green ferns ferns made
gentle and fragile by the damp walls of telephone booths.
The next good place was forty-five telephone booths in.
The place was at the end of a run of gravel, brown and slip-
pery with algae. The run of gravel dropped off and disap-
peared at a little shelf where there were some white rocks.
One of the rocks was kind of strange. It was a flat white
rock. Off by itself from the other rocks, it reminded me
of a white cat I had seen in my childhood.
The cat had fallen or been thrown off a high wooden side-
walk that went along the side of a hill in Tacoma, Washing-
ton. The cat was lying in a parking lot below.
The fall had not appreciably helped the thickness of the
cat, and then a few people had parked their cars on the cat.
Of course, that was a long time ago and the cars looked dif-
ferent from the way they look now.
You hardly see those cars any more. They are the old
cars. They have to get off the highway because they can't
keep up.
That flat white rock off by itself from the other rocks
reminded me of that dead cat come to lie there in the creek,
among 12, 845 telephone booths.
I threw out a salmon egg and let it drift down over that
rock and WHAM! a good hit! and I had the fish on and it ran
hard downstream, cutting at an angle and staying deep and
really coming on hard, solid and uncompromising, and then
the fish jumped and for a second I thought it was a frog. I'd
never seen a fish like that before.
God-damn ! What the hell!
The fish ran deep again and I could feel its life energy
screaming back up the line to my hand. The line felt like
sound. It was like an ambulance siren coming straight at
me, red light flashing, and then going away again and then
taking to the air and becoming an air-raid siren.
The fish jumped a few more times and it still looked like
a frog, but it didn't have any legs. Then the fish grew tired
and sloppy, and I swung and splashed it up the surface of
the creek and into my net.
The fish was a twelve-inch rainbow trout with a huge hump
on its back. A hunchback trout. The first I'd ever seen. The
hump was probably due to an injury that occurred when the
trout was young. Maybe a horse stepped on it or a tree fell
over in a storm or its mother spawned where they were
building a bridge.
There was a fine thing about that trout. I only wish I could
have made a death mask of him. Not of his body though, but
of his energy. I don't know if anyone would have understood
his body. I put it in my creel.
Later in the afternoon when the telephone booths began to
grow dark at the edges, I punched out of the creek and went
home. I had that hunchback trout for dinner. Wrapped in
cornmeal and fried in butter, its hump tasted sweet as the
kisses of Esmeralda.
THE PUDDING MASTER OF
STANLEY BASIN
Tree, snow and rock beginnings, the mountain in back of the
lake promised us eternity, but the lake itself was filled with
thousands of silly minnows, swimming close to the shore
and busy putting in hours of Mack Sennett time.
The minnows were an Idaho tourist attraction. They
should have been made into a National Monument. Swimming
close to shore, like children they believed in their own im-
mortality .
A third-year student in engineering at the University of
Montana attempted to catch some of the minnows but he went
about it all wrong. So did the children who came on the
Fourth of July weekend.
The children waded out into the lake and tried to catch the
minnows with their hands. They also used milk cartons and
plastic bags. They presented the lake with hours of human
effort. Their total catch was one minnow. It jumped out of a
can full of water on their table and died under the table, gasp-
ing for watery breath while their mother fried eggs on the
Coleman stove.
The mother apologized. She was supposed to be watching
the fish --THIS IS MY EARTHLY FAILURE-- holding the
dead fish by the tail, the fish taking all the bows like a young
Jewish comedian talking about Adlai Stevenson.
The third-year student in engineering at the University of
Montana took a tin can and punched an elaborate design of
holes in the can, the design running around and around in
circles, like a dog with a fire hydrant in its mouth. Then he
attached some string to the can and put a huge salmon egg
and a piece of Swiss cheese in the can. After two hours of
intimate and universal failure he went back to Missoula,
Montana.
The woman who travels with me discovered the best way
to catch the minnows. She used a large pan that had in its
bottom the dregs of a distant vanilla pudding. She put the
pan in the shallow water along the shore and instantly, hun-
dreds of minnows gathered around. Then, mesmerized by
the vanilla pudding, they swam like a children's crusade
into the pan. She caught twenty fish with one dip. She put
the pan full of fish on the shore and the baby played with
the fish for an hour.
We watched the baby to make sure she was just leaning
on them a little. We didn't want her to kill any of them be-
cause she was too young.
Instead of making her furry sound, she adapted rapidly
to the difference between animals and fish, and was soon
making a silver sound.
She caught one of the fish with her hand and looked at it
for a while. We took the fish out of her hand and put it back
into the pan. After a while she was putting the fish back by
herself.
Then she grew tired of this. She tipped the pan over and
a dozen fish flopped out onto the shore. The children's game
and the banker's game, she picked up those silver things,
one at a time, and put them back in the pan. There was still
a little water in it. The fish liked this. You could tell.
When she got tired of the fish, we put them back in the
lake, and they were all quite alive, but nervous. I doubt if
they will ever want vanilla pudding again.
A RETURN TO THE COVER OF
THIS BOOK
Dear Trout Fishing in America:
I met your friend Fritz in Washington Square. He told me
to tell you that his case went to a jury and that he was acquit-
ted by the jury.
He said that it was important for me to say that his case
went to a jury and that he was acquitted by the jury,
said it again.
He looked in good shape. He was sitting in the sun. There's
an old San Francisco saying that goes: "It's better to rest in
Washington Square than in the California Adult Authority. "
How are things in New York?
Yours,
"An Ardent Admirer"
Dear Ardent Admirer:
It's good to hear that Fritz isn't in jail. He was very wor-
ried about it. The last time I was in San Francisco, he told
me he thought the odds were 10-1 in favor of him going away.
I told him to get a good lawyer. It appears that he followed
my advice and also was very lucky. That's always a good
combination.
You asked about New York and New York is very hot.
I'm visiting some friends, a young burglar and his wife.
He's unemployed and his wife is working as a cocktail wait-
ress. He's been looking for work but I fear the worst.
It was so hot last night that I slept with a wet sheet wrapped
around myself, trying to keep cool. I felt like a mental patient.
I woke up in the middle of the night and the room was filled
with steam rising off the sheet, and there was jungle stuff,
abandoned equipment and tropical flowers, on the floor and
on the furniture.
I took the sheet into the bathroom and plopped it into the
tub and turned the cold water on it. Their dog came in and
started barking at me.
The dog barked so loud that the bathroom was soon filled
with dead people. One of them wanted to use my wet sheet
for a shroud. I said no, and we got into a big argument over
it and woke up the Puerto Ricans in the next apartment, and
they began pounding on the walls.
The dead people all left in a huff. "We know when we're
not wanted, " one of them said.
"You're damn tootin'," I said.
I've had enough.
I' m going to get out of New York. Tomorrow I'm leaving for
Alaska. I'm going to find an ice-cold creek near the Arctic
where that strange beautiful moss grows and spend a week
with the grayling. My address will be, Trout Fishing in Ameri-
ca, c/o General Delivery, Fairbanks, Alaska.
Your friend,
Trout Fishing in America
THE LAKE JOSEPHUS DAYS
We left Little Redfish for Lake Josephus, traveling along the
good names--from Stanley to Capehorn to Seafoam to the
Rapid River, up Float Creek, past the Greyhound Mine and
then to Lake Josephus, and a few days after that up the trail
to Hell-diver Lake with the baby on my shoulders and a good
limit of trout waiting in Hell-diver.
Knowing the trout would wait there like airplane tickets
for us to come, we stopped at Mushroom Springs and had a
drink of cold shadowy water and some photographs taken of
the baby and me sitting together on a log.
I hope someday we'll have enough money to get those pic-
tures developed. Sometimes I get curious about them, won-
dering if they will turn out all right. They are in suspension
now like seeds in a package. I'll be older when they are de-
veloped and easier to please. Look there's the baby ! Look
there's Mushroom Springs ! Look there's me !
I caught the limit of trout within an hour of reaching Hell-
diver, and my woman, in all the excitement of good fishing,
let the baby fall asleep directly in the sun and when the baby
woke up, she puked and I carried her back down the trail.
My woman trailed silently behind, carrying the rods and
the fish. The baby puked a couple more times, thimblefuls
of gentle lavender vomit, but still it got on my clothes, and
her face was hot and flushed.
We stopped at Mushroom Springs. I gave her a small
drink of water, not too much, and rinsed the vomit taste out
of her mouth. Then I wiped the puke off my clothes and for
some strange reason suddenly it was a perfect time, there
at Mushroom Springs, to wonder whatever happened to the
Zoot suit.
Along with World War II and the Andrews Sisters, the
Zoot suit had been very popular in the early 40s. I guess
they were all just passing fads.
A sick baby on the trail down from Hell-diver, July 1961,
is probably a more important question. It cannot be left to
go on forever, a sick baby to take her place in the galaxy,
among the comets, bound to pass close to the earth every
173 years.
She stopped puking after Mushroom Springs, and I carried
her back down along the path in and out of the shadows and
across other nameless springs, and by the time we got down
to Lake Josephus, she was all right.
She was soon running around with a big cutthroat trout in
her hands, carrying it like a harp on her way to a concert--
ten minutes late with no bus in sight and no taxi either
SANDBOX MINUS JOHN
DILLINGER EQUALS WHAT?
Often I return to the cover of Trout Fishing in America. I
took the baby and went down there this morning. They were
watering the cover with big revolving sprinklers. I saw some
bread lying on the grass. It had been put there to feed the
pigeons.
The old Italians are always doing things like that. The
bread had been turned to paste by the water and was squashed
flat against the grass. Those dopey pigeons were waiting until
the water and grass had chewed up the bread for them, so
they wouldn't have to do it themselves.
I let the baby play in the sandbox and I sat down on a bench
and looked around. There was a beatnik sitting at the other
end -of the bench. He had his sleeping bag beside him and he
was eating apple turnovers. He had a huge sack of apple turn-
overs and he was gobbling them down like a turkey. It was
probably a more valid protest than picketing missile bases.
The baby played in the sandbox. She had on a red dress
and the Catholic church was towering up behind her red dress.
There was a brick john between her dress and the church. It
was there by no accident. Ladies to the left and gents to the
right.
A red dress, I thought. Wasn't the woman who set John
Dillinger up for the FBI wearing a red dress? They called
her "The Woman in Red. "
It seemed to me that was right. It was a red dress, but so
far, John Dillinger was nowhere in sight. my daughter
played alone in the sandbox.
Sandbox minus John Dillinger equals what?
The beatnik went and got a drink of water from the fountain
that was crucified on the wall of the brick john, more toward
the gents than the ladies. He had to wash all those apple turn-
overs down his throat.
There were three sprinklers going in the park. There was
one in front of the Benjamin Franklin statue and one to the
side of him and one just behind him. They were all turning in
circles. I saw Benjamin Franklin standing there patiently
through the water.
The sprinkler to the side of Benjamin Franklin hit the left-
hand tree. It sprayed hard against the trunk and knocked some
leaves down from the tree, and then it hit the center tree,
sprayed hard against the trunk and more leaves fell. Then it
sprayed against Benjamin Franklin, the water shot out to the
sides of the stone and a mist drifted down off the water. Ben-
jamin Franklin got his feet wet.
The sun was shining down hard on me. The sun was bright
and hot. After a while the sun made me think of my own dis-
comfort. The only shade fell on the beatnik.
The shade came down off the Lillie Hitchcock Colt statue
of some metal fireman saving a metal broad from a mental
fire. The beatnik now lay on the bench and the shade was two
feet longer than he was.
A friend of mine has written a poem about that statue. God-
damn, I wish he would write another poem about that statue,
SO it would give me some shade two feet longer than my body.
I was right about "The Woman in Red, " because ten min-
utes later they blasted John Dillinger down in the sandbox.
The sound of the machine-gun fire startled the pigeons and
they hurried on into the church.
My daughter was seen leaving in a huge black car shortly
after that. She couldn't talk yet, but that didn't make any dif-
ference. The red dress did it all.
John Dillinger's body lay half in and half out of the sand-
box, more toward the ladies than the gents. He was leaking
blood like those capsules we used to use with oleomargarine,
in those good old days when oleo was white like lard.
The huge black car pulled out and went up the street, bat-
light shining off the top. It stopped in front of the ice-cream
parlor at Filbert and Stockton.
An agent got out and went in and bought two hundred
double-decker ice-cream cones. He needed a wheelbarrow
to get them back to the car.
And now, when poets are singing
Their songs of olden days,
And now, when the land is ringing
With sweet Centennial lays,
My muse goes wandering backward,
To the groundwork of all these,
To the time when our Pilgrim Fathers
Came over the winter seas.
The sons of a mighty kingdom,
Of a cultured folk were they;
Born amidst pomp and splendor,
Bred in it day by day.
Children of bloom and beauty,
Reared under skies serene,
Where the daisy and hawthorne blossomed,
And the ivy was always green.
And yet, for the sake of freedom,
For a free religious faith,
They turned from home and people,
And stood face to face with death.
They turned from a tyrant ruler,
And stood on the new world's shore,
With a waste of waters behind them,
And a waste of land before.
O, men of a great Republic;
Of a land of untold worth;
Of a nation that has no equal
Upon God's round green earth:
I hear you sighing and crying
Of the hard, close times at hand;
What think you of those old heroes,
On the rock 'twixt sea and land?
The bells of a million churches
Go ringing out to-night,
And the glitter of palace windows
Fills all the land with light;
And there is the home and college,
And here is the feast and ball,
And the angels of peace and freedom
Are hovering over all.
They had no church, no college,
No banks, no mining stock;
They had but the waste before them,
The sea, and Plymouth Rock.
But there in the night and tempest,
With gloom on every hand,
They laid the first foundation
Of a nation great and grand.
There were no weak repinings,
No shrinking from what might be,
But with their brows to the tempest,
And with their backs to the sea,
They planned out a noble future,
And planted the corner stone
Of the grandest, greatest republic,
The world has ever known.
O women in homes of splendor,
O lily-buds frail and fair,
With fortunes upon your fingers,
And milk-white pearls in your hair:
I hear you longing and sighing
For some new, fresh delight;
But what of those Pilgrim mothers
On that December night?
I hear you talking of hardships,
I hear you moaning of loss;
Each has her fancied sorrow,
Each bears her self-made cross.
But they, they had only their husbands,
The rain, the rock, and the sea,
Yet, they looked up to God and blessed Him,
And were glad because they were free.
O grand old Pilgrim heroes,
O souls that were tried and true,
With all of our proud possessions
We are humbled at thought of you:
Men of such might and muscle,
Women so brave and strong,
Whose faith was fixed as the mountain,
Through a night so dark and long.
We know of your grim, grave errors,
As husbands and as wives;
Of the rigid bleak ideas
That starved your daily lives;
Of pent-up, curbed emotions,
Of feelings crushed, suppressed,
That God with the heart created
In every human breast;
We know of that little remnant
Of British tyranny,
When you hunted Quakers and witches,
And swumg them from a tree;
Yet back to a holy motive,
To live in the fear of God,
To a purpose, high, exalted,
To walk where martyrs trod,
We can trace your gravest errors;
Your aim was fixed and sure,
And e'en if your acts were fanatic,
We know your hearts were pure.
You lived so near to heaven,
You over-reached your trust,
And deemed yourselves creators,
Forgetting you were but dust.
But we with our broader visions,
With our wider realm of thought,
I often think would be better
If we lived as our fathers taught.
Their lives seemed bleak and rigid,
Narrow, and void of bloom;
Our minds have too much freedom,
And conscience too much room.
They over-reached in duty,
They starved their hearts for the right;
We live too much in the senses,
We bask too long in the light.
They proved by their clinging to Him
The image of God in man;
And we, by our love of license,
Strengthen a Darwin's plan.
But bigotry reached its limit,
And license must have its sway,
And both shall result in profit
To those of a latter day.
With the fetters of slavery broken,
And freedom's flag unfurled,
Our nation strides onward and upward,
And stands the peer of the world.
Spires and domes and steeples,
Glitter from shore to shore;
The waters are white with commerce,
The earth is studded with ore;
Peace is sitting above us,
And Plenty with laden hand,
Wedded to sturdy Labor,
Goes singing through the land.
Then let each child of the nation,
Who glories in being free,
Remember the Pilgrim Fathers
Who stood on the rock by the sea;
For there in the rain and tempest
Of a night long passed away,
They sowed the seeds of a harvest
We gather in sheaves to-day.
Once a shiny nation was established ‘cross the sea
Smelted out of blood and sweat, to guarantee all men be free
Escaping religious tyranny, they traveled to a new land so
That their future generations could worship God you know
As the promises of freedom did themselves unwind
The colonies together, forged a new documental mind
They appealed to the Supreme Judge, The Creator their fathers knew
Asking The Divine Providence, for the protection due
They sent to all concerned, a great message far and wide
Just how the King of Britain, was raping liberties for pride
They'd asked only for equality, entitled under Nature's God
Some Represent to Parliament, for laws considered odd
But when the document was given its final show
The Colonial Congress, decided compromise would flow
Stripping the Declaration of one, very justifiable act
To obtain unanimous vote, left slavery intact
The great Revolution, as it soon came to be called
Brought new hope to the free world, its being oceanic walled
But soon was the Confederation, in dire need of something new
A stronger central government, with constitution too
In The Constitution, many forefathers did frame
The working of government and our protection from the same
Being left within all there still stood, human slavery at the back
Which God himself would not approve, and no one would attack
Some would say it was strange, that fifty years to the day
Jefferson and Adams died, on the Fourth of July God's way
Be it eighty seven years later, Gettysburg Battlefield lay dead
Where many men consecrated, the land in their blood red
Since the fourth of sixty, our flag has carried fifty
The states in which we reside, twenty-twelve marks one-fifty
From the start of that great Civil War, that we here too must fight a new
Because injustice has been done, Rights for the unborn too
To compromise may seem the best to leave it lay at rest
But to The Lord of Heaven, He'll place you to His test
< br>
When reading The Declaration of Independence, I was amazed at the four references made to the Supreme Being. I found it quite interesting that this document written by Thomas Jefferson, with minor changes made by Benjamin Franklin and John Adams contained the words: Nature's God, Creator, Supreme Judge and Divine Providence (notice the capitalization referring to a specific one) . It was addressed to the world but made its appeal to the Supreme Judge (not the king of England nor The Pope, but someone higher) . After more minor changes by the delegates, including deleting a section condemning slavery, it was unanimously approved. Just think, thousands of lives could have been saved (i.e. no Civil War)      along with a totally free Union, if that section would have remained and not been compromised just to get a unanimous vote.
Does not the same thing happen today? Does not the party with morals continue to compromise with the idiots? If the idiots wish for chaos, welfare, etc... Let them do it elsewhere, No More Compromising!
< br>
america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america
All hail to thee, noble and generous Land!
With thy prairies boundless and wide,
Thy mountains that tower like sentinels grand,
Thy lakes and thy rivers of pride!
Thy forests that hide in their dim haunted shades
New flowers of loveliness rare—
Thy fairy like dells and thy bright golden glades,
Thy warm skies as Italy’s fair.
Here Plenty has lovingly smiled on the soil,
And ’neath her sweet, merciful reign
The brave and long suff’ring children of toil
Need labor no longer in vain.
I ask of thee shelter from lawless harm,
Food—raiment—and promise thee now,
In return, the toil of a stalwart arm,
And the sweat of an honest brow.
But think not, I pray, that this heart is bereft
Of fond recollections of home;
That I e’er can forget the dear land I have left
In the new one to which I have come.
Oh no! far away in my own sunny isle
Is a spot my affection worth,
And though dear are the scenes that around me now smile,
More dear is the place of my birth!
There hedges of hawthorn scent the sweet air,
And, thick as the stars of the night,
The daisy and primrose, with flow’rets as fair,
Gem that soil of soft verdurous light.
And there points the spire of my own village church,
That long has braved time’s iron power,
With its bright glitt’ring cross and ivy wreathed porch—
Sure refuge in sorrow’s dark hour!
Whilst memory lasts think not e’er from this breast
Can pass the fond thoughts of my home:
No! I ne’er can forget the land I have left
In the new one to which I have come!
McCain, McCain, you are running in vain!
And you are in this national drama,
how hillariously (!)  funny and a little insane,
cheer the pigmented warrior Obama.
In the background old Bill, who is over the hill
lusts to get a new student like 'winsky,
with a Cuban cigar and a muffin to fill
like a film by director Klaus Kinski.
And I say, take the lot and fly up to the moon
blast the gangsters into smithereens,
we don't need here on earth, a demented baboon
nor a humper who's searching for queens.
Let the first who has cast his own spell on the land
be the chief and commander for all
it won't matter a bit as we do understand
very soon this great country will fall.
The game players of America,
Are first bred in our neighborhoods.
They are conditioned to be gangsters,
Crooks and hoodlums.
And put on trial for their criminal denials.
The game players of America,
Are taught to deceive, lie and cheat.
Hussel stolen goods on urban streets.
Go to some church to pray and sing.
And on Wednesdays study Bible verse...
To enable them to be forgiven,
For the sins upon themselves they bring.
The game players of America,
Are part Hollywood mixed with truth.
Part naïve, innocent and uncouth.
And mentally driven to anything falsified that shines.
Conditioned with materialistic mindsets.
And quick to claim what is theirs...
With a factor that begins,
With a carelessness most times.
The game players of America,
Can be said to be thoughtless, rude and self indulgent.
But if they are not into the game to win...
Losing for them,
Becomes a taxpayers involvement.
And high are taxes found,
In cities or towns...
Where they are not known to go down!
Like the blood that's shed and spread on the ground.
However...
Rose colored glasses,
Are on the eyes of everyone.
Distributed free at birth!
And religiously worn.
Whether folks are conducting daily business...
Or hiding behind them hypocritically in some church!
This is the greatest thing in North America:
Europe is the greatest thing in North America!
High in the sky, dark in the heart, and always there
Among the natural powers of sunlight and of air,
Changing, second by second, shifting and changing the
light,
Bring fresh rain to the stone of the library steps.
Under the famous names upon the pediment:
Thales, Aristotle,
Cicero, Augustine, Scotus, Galileo,
Joseph, Odysseus, Hamlet, Columbus and Spinoza,
Anna Karenina, Alyosha Karamazov, Sherlock Holmes.
And the last three also live upon the silver screen
Three blocks away, in moonlight's artificial day,
A double bill in the darkened palace whirled,
And the veritable glittering light of the turning world's
Burning mind and blazing imagination, showing, day by
day
And week after week the desires of the heart and mind
Of all the living souls yearning everywhere
From Canada to Panama, from Brooklyn to Paraguay,
From Cuba to Vancouver, every afternoon and every night.
W orld renowned political figure
I ntellectual person, a vigorous leader
L eadership is the key to your success
L oving, caring, generous, a religious man
I ndustrious, incredibly lucky, great ability, a glorious victory
A lways a devoted man to your family and country
M an with guts, your dreams came true J ust only a man of integrity can make this nation great again
E nergetic, excellent achievements, a successful President
F reedom-fighter, man of the masses, pride of the west
F ormer youngest Governor in America, 1978, of Little Rock, Arkansas, a familiar figure in the political community
E ternal lover, husband, First Lady Madam Hillary Rodham Clinton, Chelsea, charming daughter
R esourceful, reserved, a dignified man
S axophonist, a talented, handsome musician, son of a humble mother, Virginia, a nurse
O nly a man like you can make America safe and a beautiful place to live in
N oble, magnificent, wonderful human being C ommander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, the most powerful nation in the world
L oyalty to your native land, may God bless you
I  nspiration of the younger generations
N othing is impossible for a man of high caliber like you
T oday, tomorrow and forever, your name, one of the great men in history
O utgoing personality, open and accessible, one of the most extraordinary persons in American history
N ever to forget a gentleman, trustworthy, with a Christian heart.
How would you have us, as we are?
Or sinking 'neath the load we bear?
Our eyes fixed forward on a star?
Or gazing empty at despair?
Rising or falling? Men or things?
With dragging pace or footsteps fleet?
Strong, willing sinews in your wings?
Or tightening chains about your feet?
I.
Brothers! between you and me
Whirlwinds sweep and billows roar:
Yet in spirit oft I see
On thy wild and winding shore
Freedom’s bloodless banners wave,--
Feel the pulses of the brave
Unextinguished in the grave,--
See them drenched in sacred gore,--
Catch the warrior's gasping breath
Murmuring 'Liberty or death!'
II.
Shout aloud! Let every slave,
Crouching at Corruption's throne,
Start into a man, and brave
Racks and chains without a groan:
And the castle's heartless glow,
And the hovel's vice and woe,
Fade like gaudy flowers that blow--
Weeds that peep, and then are gone
Whilst, from misery's ashes risen,
Love shall burst the captive's prison.
III.
Cotopaxi! bid the sound
Through thy sister mountains ring,
Till each valley smile around
At the blissful welcoming!
And, O thou stern Ocean deep,
Thou whose foamy billows sweep
Shores where thousands wake to weep
Whilst they curse a villain king,
On the winds that fan thy breast
Bear thou news of Freedom's rest!
IV.
Can the daystar dawn of love,
Where the flag of war unfurled
Floats with crimson stain above
The fabric of a ruined world?
Never but to vengeance driven
When the patriot's spirit shriven
Seeks in death its native Heaven!
There, to desolation hurled,
Widowed love may watch thy bier,
Balm thee with its dying tear.
Brothers in blood! They who this wrong began
To wreck our commonwealth, will rue the day
When first they challenged freeman to the fray,
And with the Briton dared the American.
Now are we pledged to win the Rights of man:
Labour and Justice now shall have their way,
And in a League of Peace -- God grant we may --
Transform the earth, not patch up the old plan.
Sure is our hope since he who led your nation
Spake for mankind, and ye arose in awe
Of that high call to work the world's salvation;
Clearing your minds of all estrangling blindness
In the vision of Beauty and the Spirit's law,
Freedom and Honour and sweet Lovingkindness.
Send but a song oversea for us,
Heart of their hearts who are free,
Heart of their singer, to be for us
More than our singing can be;
Ours, in the tempest at error,
With no light but the twilight of terror;
Send us a song oversea!
Sweet-smelling of pine-leaves and grasses,
And blown as a tree through and through
With the winds of the keen mountain-passes,
And tender as sun-smitten dew;
Sharp-tongued as the winter that shakes
The wastes of your limitless lakes,
Wide-eyed as the sea-line's blue.
O strong-winged soul with prophetic
Lips hot with the bloodheats of song,
With tremor of heartstrings magnetic,
With thoughts as thunders in throng,
With consonant ardours of chords
That pierce men's souls as with swords
And hale them hearing along,
Make us too music, to be with us
As a word from a world's heart warm,
To sail the dark as a sea with us,
Full-sailed, outsinging the storm,
A song to put fire in our ears
Whose burning shall burn up tears,
Whose sign bid battle reform;
A note in the ranks of a clarion,
A word in the wind of cheer,
To consume as with lightning the carrion
That makes time foul for us here;
In the air that our dead things infest
A blast of the breath of the west,
Till east way as west way is clear.
Out of the sun beyond sunset,
From the evening whence morning shall be,
With the rollers in measureless onset,
With the van of the storming sea,
With the world-wide wind, with the breath
That breaks ships driven upon death,
With the passion of all things free,
With the sea-steeds footless and frantic,
White myriads for death to bestride
In the charge of the ruining Atlantic
Where deaths by regiments ride,
With clouds and clamours of waters,
With a long note shriller than slaughter's
On the furrowless fields world-wide,
With terror, with ardour and wonder,
With the soul of the season that wakes
When the weight of a whole year's thunder
In the tidestream of autumn breaks,
Let the flight of the wide-winged word
Come over, come in and be heard,
Take form and fire for our sakes.
For a continent bloodless with travail
Here toils and brawls as it can,
And the web of it who shall unravel
Of all that peer on the plan;
Would fain grow men, but they grow not,
And fain be free, but they know not
One name for freedom and man?
One name, not twain for division;
One thing, not twain, from the birth;
Spirit and substance and vision,
Worth more than worship is worth;
Unbeheld, unadored, undivined,
The cause, the centre, the mind,
The secret and sense of the earth.
Here as a weakling in irons,
Here as a weanling in bands,
As a prey that the stake-net environs,
Our life that we looked for stands;
And the man-child naked and dear,
Democracy, turns on us here
Eyes trembling with tremulous hands
It sees not what season shall bring to it
Sweet fruit of its bitter desire;
Few voices it hears yet sing to it,
Few pulses of hearts reaspire;
Foresees not time, nor forehears
The noises of imminent years,
Earthquake, and thunder, and fire:
When crowned and weaponed and curbless
It shall walk without helm or shield
The bare burnt furrows and herbless
Of war's last flame-stricken field,
Till godlike, equal with time,
It stand in the sun sublime,
In the godhead of man revealed.
Round your people and over them
Light like raiment is drawn,
Close as a garment to cover them
Wrought not of mail nor of lawn;
Here, with hope hardly to wear,
Naked nations and bare
Swim, sink, strike out for the dawn.
Chains are here, and a prison,
Kings, and subjects, and shame;
If the God upon you be arisen,
How should our songs be the same?
How, in confusion of change,
How shall we sing, in a strange
Land, songs praising his name?
God is buried and dead to us,
Even the spirit of earth,
Freedom; so have they said to us,
Some with mocking and mirth,
Some with heartbreak and tears;
And a God without eyes, without ears,
Who shall sing of him, dead in the birth?
The earth-god Freedom, the lonely
Face lightening, the footprint unshod,
Not as one man crucified only
Nor scourged with but one life's rod;
The soul that is substance of nations,
Reincarnate with fresh generations;
The great god Man, which is God.
But in weariest of years and obscurest
Doth it live not at heart of all things,
The one God and one spirit, a purest
Life, fed from unstanchable springs?
Within love, within hatred it is,
And its seed in the stripe as the kiss,
And in slaves is the germ, and in kings.
Freedom we call it, for holier
Name of the soul's there is none;
Surelier it labours if slowlier,
Than the metres of star or of sun;
Slowlier than life into breath,
Surelier than time into death,
It moves till its labour be done.
Till the motion be done and the measure
Circling through season and clime,
Slumber and sorrow and pleasure,
Vision of virtue and crime;
Till consummate with conquering eyes,
A soul disembodied, it rise
From the body transfigured of time.
Till it rise and remain and take station
With the stars of the worlds that rejoice;
Till the voice of its heart's exultation
Be as theirs an invariable voice;
By no discord of evil estranged,
By no pause, by no breach in it changed,
By no clash in the chord of its choice.
It is one with the world's generations,
With the spirit, the star, and the sod;
With the kingless and king-stricken nations,
With the cross, and the chain, and the rod;
The most high, the most secret, most lonely,
The earth-soul Freedom, that only
Lives, and that only is God.
Wake up America, Why can’t you see,
An evil is pursuing both you and me,
We must wake up, I issue this plea,
Nations are falling, for all to see.
To conquer the world, is evils desire,
To take away freedoms, for all they acquire,
Not only for us, but their own they require,
To control your life, is their desire.
Wake up America, not later but now,
Religion is used, as their golden plow,
To take your freedoms, to make you bow,
The freedom that’s yours, they will not allow
A religion of many, it’s theirs to choose,
A right that’s fair which they should not loose,
The right to worship, but not to excuse,
A terrorist action and a religion they misuse
Wake up America, before it’s too late,
For one’s you love, and children’s fate,
To choose your life, you cannot abate,
For the sword is thrust, At America’s fate.
In America
we are about to vote
on what is to be our political Soul;
Will America finally become reconciled to
and surpass our past
move  through and beyond
20th century capitalism?
whether generations can meet
in between;
whether granddad's view of the past;
his dislikes and loyalties
predominate;
or whether the grandchildren will
say:
'I know granddad what you think
but I just don't think about it that way.'
In every town and hamlet
every suburb and city
the lines form
and the hearts vote
to express
what each soul believes
about what is the best for all of us.
What is Best America?
Or is it what is the best America
for me?
This is not the fork in the road;
this is the new road.
This is no disagreement;
it is a different brain thinking.
All the world is becoming joined.
All the world now
common crisis bound;
wondering
whether to cling to wallet issues
or the ideologue;
whether to accept change or
stay with the comfortable and the known;
whether to continence me and mine
or change to
or join
with those different than me,
those who march away
following that sign
ear-marked 'the future times.'
Demographics plus luck
determines all our fates;
How much progress is it to destroy the planet
for false security and baubles?
What is good a computer which
poisons the soil?
What price the comforts we crave
as we resist
the obvious;
which is we must re-learn simpler ways.
And we can.
Yes, we can.
We cannot afford to
can not
or not can.
The first area to look into is those pillars of American success I identified above: Cheap Labor, Cheap Energy, Cheap Food and a country filled with natural resources.
To this list I will now add, a decent birth rate or immigrant flow, small town and technical green enclave investment, income distribution reform, land distribution reforms, banking and financial reforms and a re-thinking of the purposes of an economy.
Cheap labor built this country, from the Chinese coming to lay the track for the railroads, to the Africans working the cotton in the South, to the immigrants from Europe who cleared the land in the west, who worked the factories, fought the wars and made America what it is today. Needless to say the labor scene is not the same today. Cheap labor has been outsourced to other countries.
The American middle class has not only been abandoned but 40% of American savings were taken from them and their homes, their major asset, are now selling for half the purchase price to those very same interests which took the savings and the land.
We are heading for a two class system, therefore, the rich and the poor. Certainly that is the pattern becoming evident in many of our cities. In addition, there is the lack of labor, cheap or otherwise, which is the demographic issue. Americans are not having children, nor are  Europeans and the demographics are becoming clear: By 2050, some demographic studies show, the reproducing populations of Russia, Britain, France and Italy will, in essence, cease to exist and the traditional populations will be replaced by immigrants from other countries. The same trends are evident in the United States as well. Latin American birth rates outstrip those of Americans and demography become destiny, in a flice.
So, as we age in this country, we see a younger population replacing an older one, of a very different stripe. Our children will learn more Spanish in the short-run but English will have resurgence in the next generation. What is to be done in this context is now our challenge.
The first issue in the short run is the economy. The country will, and already has, in certain communities become a two-economy society. Why should I, nor can I, compete for basic living necessities with individuals earning 2-3 times more than I do?
A two-economy solution, whether created or defacto-realized seems inevitable. The rich will likely not be allowed to shop in the second economy where the price of necessities can be artificially raised in a so-called 'free market.' This solution creates a low-cost economy of necessities for those who provide the labor. This makes sense and many do this to survive anyway today. Thrift shops, discount stores, Walmarts all attest to the fact that the middle class cannot afford middle class and upper middle class prices.
The second pillar of revamping the labor force (the one above creates an economy which works for them)  is to have that labor force become more self-sufficient and not be susceptible to being wiped out by Wall Street machinations and global trends in far away countries. This means the re-claiming of productive land and small towns where they can be supportive of a laboring population. Bartering, co-ops, low living costs, plus a land reform policy can make the country side more productive and sustainable especially in the context of greening these small towns to produce energy for re-sale to the grid.
Believe it or not Detroit is trying this approach. Tear the detoriated buildings down, down-size the city, allow for population loss, put in self-sufficient gardening and farming plots, bring in technological enclaves. This is an admission that the city model does not work, at least in Detroit.
Now you have idle workers in small towns all over the country. We can make those small towns productive with massive investments. How you say is that possible? More tomorrow.
February 18,2010 - Survival Chapter Three
As I have stated elsewhere our children, will not be able to afford the suburban home of the past.
In the cities they will be forced and are, already, living three to five a house or apartment. High unemployment will remain with us and a revamping of the economy from a service emphasis to a new high-tech, green emphasis will take time. What to do. Here are a few modest proposals about what to do with the labor force, idle out there and hurting.
1-Create a massive internal peace corp. Put people to work re-vamping small towns for their change-over to a more self-sustaining model. This includes local organic food stuffs, grown and consumed. Free up land for this purpose. People will grow gardens. Put money into green training and irrigation projects. Bring people languishing unproductively in the cities back into these very same small towns. Bring back and support local and regional banks and co-ops of various kinds, crops, loans, machinery, techno co-ops can work if local.
Remember what happens when we allow Wall Street to become our bankers? . Take those same highly educated city grads, currently living five to an apartment, and give them money to go back home to their own small towns, or others to help set up the infrastructure need to fuel this internal peace corp re-generation of America. Move people out of the cities with incentives to go back to the small town or the medium sized town. We have technology now where we don't need to congregate in cities to be productive, that was an industrial model where you needed the labor force close and available near ports and transportation hubs. We don't need this so much in this post industrial era. Has this model been tried? Sure. Dependent wage-earners in the city are an economic failure. We should admit it and go local and regional.
The poor won't be poor if they are given the means to access the basics of life. The middle class can revert to the community help model that is still in place in many small towns, and has been for centuries. After all, most of the world was a small town model until populations were forced into the cities to serve the needs of robber barons.
Now the second aspect of reform is to take the technological enclaves I have described and integrate them into what I have described above. I have noted that much of the information revolution is actually driven by a few high skilled enclaves around the world and by relatively few people. They are Silicon valley-like enclaves in California, China, Singapore, France, Germany, Hong-Kong etc. These enclaves are small towns where participants know one another and exchange ideas. This is the second model of small town regeneration. These type two small towns are to be in contact with type one small towns and can become training cadres for small town re-generation. How? Give them tax breaks to do so and guess what they will have at their disposal; cheap labor from the sources we identified above. That is what we need to do in the short run, town by town.
So we have a new source of cheap labor, idle now but can become productive again. Empty the cities, get people out of what are inefficient enclaves and get them to places where the population can begin to benefit itself not a few hundred thousand rich souls who control city life.
Ah, not possible you say? The choice here is stark: Either we organize this new re-generation by planful means or it will occur in an unplanned way, which is to say people abandoning the cities and invading the country side looking for the means to survive. Be mindful here that any disaster of any meaningful proportions will initiate this process anyway and we will not have planned for it
A last stark fact: The average grocer has three days worth of food on the shelves. People will invade the country side looking for food and this will be the plan I just discussed being initiated the hard way. And that is ugly.
The collapse of centralized authority, unplanned, happened with the collapse of the Roman Empire, initiating the Dark Ages, happened, in fact, in the bible as I have argued above, and happened with the collapse of Egyptian rule in Canaan. It happened with Katrina. Any breakdown from natural or man-made sources will create the pattern I describe above.
February 22,2010 'What Does America Need To Survive? ' Chapter 4
Have there been other examples of civilizations abandoning the city as unworkable; or central authority collasping, of abandoning empire as unworkable? The Mayans abandoned pyramid building, the Greeks, the Babylonians, the French, the British, the Romans, countless examples. Most large scale centralized authority systems fall down. They are not generally pulled down. The most recent example is that of the Russians who abandoned their empire as unworkable.
It is part of a normal pattern.
So now to get to the detail. Include the army in the small town regeneration project, along with the young and the college-educated. Many of them have ties to these small towns and it would be a home coming. Have the technological enclaves close by with small towns providing labor in exchange for training. Isn't that what the Army does anyway? Focus efforts in regeneration on greening and self-sufficiency. These would be key. This would mean small truck farms, wind, solar and the techno-enclave would be in proximity. And, ultimately, able to produce energy for the gird.
Of course, there will be a fight over the land. Currently developers, banks, railroads, utilities and the US government own most of the land in the country. There would have to be a new land use policy. Survival is at stake. But the fight could be won because small states dominate in the US Senate and a deal could be struck because their states would benefit from such a plan.
Think of it. Most of the wasted resources in this country are utilized keeping the cities afloat. They are not economic, crime ridden, have no real products they produce, have teeming unemployment looming and bound to get worse and net resource wasters. They demand massive investments in transportation, food, energy and give little back in terms of long-term sustainability. Young people, the idle, the technologically advanced are better utilized on the country-side landscape. Just a thought.
So cheap labor is possible to put back into the American equation. As I am fond of saying, this will happen well and planned or ill-planned and ugly.
February 26,2010 'Survive'
The next item in tandem is cheap energy. Above we have mentioned wind and solar. We add to the list battery power, and nuclear power. There are ideas around the idea of clean coal and cheap oil, but we are better off looking at fuel substitutes that include vegetable oils and other grain based fuels. At the very least stockpiles ought to be created for the emergencies which will surely come in the future. But will all this be enough, timely and efficient in the face of climate change, aging populations, declining incomes, looming depression, and political paralysis? Such timing is critical, the answer is unknown. However, we have no choice in the energy field; we must act as if we will succeed. The overall goal is clear; create a society which city and country-side produce net energy give-backs to the grid.
Friends of mine stated part of the problem succinctly, “Why re-build an outmoded infrastructure; build the new one directly.'
On the energy level the task is a delicate one: We have to build the boat we are sailing to Europe on while sailing to Europe. The reason that this is even to be looked at is that you can do this if you build the boat as a series of rafts strung together. Those rafts are small towns. Seen this way, it is possible to accomplish the task. Of course there is not enough money in the world to re-build the old infrastructure, but a green infra-structure is possible under scenarios I outline below. That structure is cheaper in the long run, more competitive, locally controlled and has cheaper labor costs, as I have outlined above.
The next issue is cheap food. America has long been the bread basket of the world but that small-farmer model of production has long been replaced by big agriculture which now means genetic farming where corn itself has reduced strains available and many of them owned, repeat, owned by the Monsanto's of the world. It is illegal to grow the corn without their permission. This, of course, changes the cheap food equation. If grain seed and indeed water, and the very air can become private property then the house of cards will collapse. Clearly this system is not sustainable and is not viable as a public good.
Re-generation will have to be accompanied by a re-thinking of who owns food grains. Who owns water, land, air? It is instructive to even have to discuss these issues this way. What hath progress wrought?
How can food be re-democratized? It will have to be. Hungry people will find a way to feed their families and Monsanto and their patents will have to stand aside and let people grow what ever they want.
Now a potential catalyst in all of this are returning veterans from our two wars. (War is a form of employment which is why it so easily becomes popular.)
These folks, having made sacrifices for the country will come home, assuming the wars end, will need jobs and there are none. They will need medical care, in a medical system which is broken. They will need re-training, in a country which is cutting college budgets. Something similar happened after World War one and those vets marched on Washington. It can happen again.  These might when they and their families find they cannot make a living once back home. They are good candidates for re-generation projects where living costs will be lower and green re-training possible.
But the potential volatility of that issue remains. The two economy solution will become more apparent with these veterans back home. After all we have an example of this with the military itself where the internal military economy runs on it own terms not those of the general American economy.
So what then is the next issue to be solved? We need to look at small town economic models and their regional counterparts. Tomorrow.
February 27,2010 'Survive'
The economic picture is glum, but things will sort themselves out well or badly. Let's concentrate on well. The first item many of you have mentioned is the issue of where will the money come from to institute many of the ideas I have outlined above. Bob mentioned the national debt, two wars, and a trillion dollar deficit. All true. The national debt is 12.4 trillion dollars and soon the interest payments against that debt will be the second largest item in the national budget.
What will happen? What can happen? Can we or our children pay this debt? No, not right now.
What will likely happen is either default or re-structuring. We owe the money to the Chinese and the Japanese mostly and we will likely simply restructure with both and create new lower payments. They might, and likely will agree, to the extent they can see their exports increase to us in our re-generation efforts here. They could get some debt funds paid back in that way, along with currency re-valuation in the Chinese example. And guess who will be in China, utilizing that cheap labor-US companies who can produce for the US market utilizing this foreign labor and also help create that green market back home as well. This has synergy. Sloppy synergy but yes synergy. Inevitable? No. But a logical path.
The two wars cost about 120 billion a year and have to be wound down slowly so as to not exacerbate all those towns dependent upon military contracts in the United States and all those countries dependent upon US military bases abroad. We are a war-dependent economy seeking to become a peace economy that will take time, say 20 years.
So the first step in economic re-generation will be the global changes described above from the perspective of the United States. We can't pay. Besides we need the money for the internal changes above or we pay in internal disruptions from economic chaos if we don't act. Think 20 rolling Katrina's due to water shortages in one case, food shortages in another case, rising inflation which make the dollar worth a lot less, transportation breakdowns, terrorist attacks etc.
We are a fragile over-technologized society, and so interdependent that five airplanes can bring our economy to its knees. This is not good.
Now the small town answer here is therefore a good idea not only for economic reasons but for strict military reasons as well. Ninety-five percent of the people living on one percent of the land is a bad idea militarily. Disbursement is a better idea.
Now the mix we are talking about here is one of small-town, regional and yes some cities where cities make sense. But the basis of the American future has to be local, upgraded with technology, not massed populations in vulnerable cities. Re-generation is re-building America from the bottom up and abandoning top-down systems.
So how much time will this all take and what are the barriers?
March 1,2010 'Survival'
A wise sage once said 'What to do is easy, but the first step of what to do is the problem.' The same is true here. The answer to the question of how long we have to accomplish certain critical first steps is a function of how long will the first steps take. And what are those first steps? Here we go:
The country has to be put on a disaster footing, whether that disaster is any of the calamities I have described above or some one not yet conceived. Here is what I think we have to do, over what time line, with what human power sources and at what cost:
1-Just as we have voting booths and places in every community in the United States we must do the same for the regeneration effort. We will need in an emergency, power, medical, housing food, water, and energy and ways to move people efficiently. We partially have this in place with F.E.M.A but I would not bet my life on their help, would you?
The first scenario is the three to-five day survival period. In a disaster we want people to be self-sufficient and be able to survive for at least three-to five days after an event or in general:
-That is every home must have five days of food, non-perishable (remember, we assume no power will be available)
-Each home must have or access to five days of clean water
-Each home must have access to an emergency medical kit
-Each home must have a shortwave radio kit or access to same
-Each home must have a fuel generation kit, assuming gasoline supplies will quickly become depleted
-Each home must have access to the ability to produce heat or fire
-Each home must have a tent for temporary shelter if necessary.
-Each home must have seed grains for a vegetable garden (yes, let's think ahead)
-Each home must have a 12 volt battery, an auto battery will do and, add two bicycles, and a crowbar and rope.
-Each block must have a disaster warden, someone who would get training in the above items and their use; a paid position.
Right now some homes have these items, most don't. Some communities have their processes in place, some don't.
Shopping list item one for the state and federal government: Have our re-generation work force, (remember these folks?)  create 'Survival Support Kits' on every block in America. Kit production will provide jobs; make survivability a real option for Americans not only for natural disasters but other kinds of slow degeneration from economic collapse as well.
These kits will be on every block, or within walking distance and supplement those home supplies I have described above. Why all this effort? The worse thing you can have is millions of people in the cities on the move after five days looking for food or trying to escape the chaos of the cities.
There are massive issues with this kind of movement. You want folks to hunker down in place and survive for at least five days to ten days until state or federal efforts can be mounted.
Hunkering down also makes security for these communities easier, rather than dealing with a scattered population on the move.
The details of how you get fuel without gasoline I will spare you but survivalists know them well.
How much will this effort cost? Unknown, but my guess is each kit and its mobile container will cost in materials about 750 dollars. Labor costs would be about 500 per kit, transportation, training and placement and after support: about 2,500 dollars per kit for the first year. Let's add contingency costs and the kit total is 5,000 per unit. How many units? Let's say a million units installed in each of five years: 25 billion.
Of course there are other costs as well. All we have here is survival days one through five. But what about after the five to ten day period I have postulated. More on that tomorrow.
March 2,2010 'Survival'
All of the above effort gets us five to ten days of sufficing, mostly in the city. Beyond the ten-day mark there is a lot more to do. Moreover, what I have described above is mostly related to the cities. The country side effort is presumed to be in place from the other efforts described above and will have similar outlines as the city effort except that the Army, state and federal forces will lead that effort.
After ten days cities will be out of food and masses of individuals will head toward the country-side to escape what will be an increasingly chaotic and dangerous city environment; people use guns to get what they need, looting, dogs running in packs, sanitation issues erupt right away. Terrible..
These patterns of behavior are not uncommon; we see them in every prolonged disaster or emergency.
Most of these ideas work in fire, earthquake, terrorist action, drought, power failure, water issues etc. They are not great for nuclear war. There all bets are off.
Now in the country side you have to have in place before the above disasters or slowly degenerating circumstances (the latter is more likely)  reception centers to receive the city dwellers. Housing, kits, medical attention, sustainability planning all will have to be done before hand. The kits I speak of have to be along major exit routes and highways out of the urban areas and final destination points have to be marked out before hand to handle millions of people.
Food stuffs, water purification, temporary governmental functioning, security issues, communication, transportation and mobility- all issues that this country has not acted upon and may have to. A slow moving degeneration of our financial systems in the easiest to deal with. But think back to October 1929. The collapse of the stock market put millions on the road looking for food and work. Then most people had country cousins who grew food. Today this is not the case today. This can happen again and we have done nothing to anticipate or prepare.
What will a truly national or even regional effort look like?  We build that infrastructure block by block, city by city, region by region focusing our effort based on what areas, cities or regions have the best sustainability components and spend money in those areas which do not. The have's are put to work creating sustainability for the have-nots.
But details and costs loom here. How can this be done in the next twenty years-an arbitrary time period, but one I think is the last window we have to have gotten much of this in place.
We create hubs, local and regional until a national network is in place. The jobs it will create will help. The products, all aligned with sustainability and green goals give the country a future in the global economy, and we come out if it stronger militarily and mentally.
But as always the question is what comes first, who does it, how much will it cost and how effective will this effort be?
March 3,2010 'Survival'
The mounting of a national effort encompassing a local, regional and country-wide effort will take twenty years. It will involve a simultaneous re-vamping of the American economy and political structure such that local self-sufficiency to the maximum degree possible is built into the new system. Our issues with infra-structure, energy, power, food etc are all based upon the assumption that the present system will be in place when clearly the present system needs to be totally re-conceptualized. The maxim is that with every complex system at some point there simply isn't enough brain power at the top to manage systems when they reach a certain size, no matter how much technology we throw at it.
The dream that we could automate our way to a well run system is a dream. It happens over and over again with empires, cities and even small regions. People run systems best who are close to the production of its basic outlines.
What if I were President? What would I do? Well the American people, and others in other countries, do not really believe that life can change from what it currently is. We are paralyzed into complacency, feel powerless to change anything and not sure if we really want to see much change. As one of my students said, 'Will I still be able to still play piano? '
Now the first thing I would do is to shake up the situation with new Federal law that would place in each American home the basic needs I have outlined above for the first line of defense in the event of an emergency in American cities. Each home or block would receive one of the kits I describe at a cost of five hundred per kit.
This is the 'wake-up call' approach.Things have to be shaken up. Kick the mule to get his attention.  This is a signal that we as Americans are vulnerable to various emergencies and must make preparations. I would bill it as the first steps toward local control and de-centralization, away from centralized banks and financial systems to more local ones, to more local political and social control, to a more self-sufficient country; re-building America from the bottom up and creating new self-sufficiency green and smart jobs. This is true re-organization and cheaper by far than the current centralized system which mostly benefit, life-time politicians, lobbyists and the rich.
That is America's future if America is going to survive and compete in the global economy of the future. If this is not done the current situation where the top five percent of the population has control over more wealth that the bottom ninety-five percent will create social unrest of enormous proportions and a re-alignment will occur through the messy method and social unrest, rather than through the ways I am proposing here. Let's hope we all come to our senses.
Update June 15,2010
An interesting question here is how do the re-generation principles above match up with an actual emergency, such as the BP oil spill? The above was written before the spill but it provides an example of what is happening and how, if a re-generation plan had been in place, things would be different.
First we have a spill, the largest in American history which will contaminate over 1/3 of the Gulf of Mexico, is an environmental disaster, will affect the livelihood of thousands along the coast and inland as well, among some some the poorest states in the Union. Unemployment, damaged tourism, and decay will be with the regions for years.
And to boot we are treated to a scene where politicians parade across our tv screens promising relief but delivering none, in it mainly to get their faces on TV and hoping thereby to get re-elected, no FEMA springs into action, and payments have to come from BP and meantime how are people going to feed themselves, and make boat and house payments? A mess.
Now under re-generation, first of all, BP would be required to click a computer screen and transfer a few billion dollars directly to local banks who where the individuals involved could draw upon. This would take a few minutes. Right now they are sending checks after a claims process.
But we have no local banks. Besides the politicians want credit for relief because that means votes for them. Too quick relief and they become irrelevant.
Local banking structures who have the house note and the boat note could and would be in place under regeneration. There is no subsitute for a local person who knows each individual in the community and their needs. If BP didn't transfer the money then the Federal Reserve or the Federal government should or under re-generation would be required to.. It is a down payment on ultimate claims but people in an emergency need money now, not later. Have I mentioned local co-ops. They are even better than local banks but many don't have the electronic transfer techology to handle some tranactions and don't hold the mortgages and boat notes. Credit unions are also good choices, but same problem. We have to build these under re-generation.
Second, given what is a slow moving disaster a livelihood for millions has now been destroyed. Where will they find work? Many, as was the case with Katrina will abandon the old jobs and livelihood and we will see decay, boarded up business and migration. Under re-generation a self-sufficient plan would be in place to have those unemployed be employed locally in techno and small town enclaves and available for disaster relief. There would have been a plan B. There is no plan B now in place in the Gulf and there was no plan B; and there is no plan B even being planned for the Hurricane season upcoming.
Hurricane season. Boy is there a need for plan B. When the winds arrive what hopes for a return to normalcy might be dashed and millions will be in need or at least on the move.
Are we preparing? Nope. The states say we have no money. The Fed says BP is going to pay, BP is going to say hey, the people responsible for rig safety are registered in the Marshall Islands and can't be touched. A court battle will take years and people will be long discouraged or gone and nobody will in the end  will take responsibility.
The moral of this tale is clear: Communities have to plan for self-sufficiency against man-made and natural disasters. Plan for food, energy, and the labor force to rebuild or sustain what is in place. The large enties, the government, BP etc can't and don't have an interest in helping. It is not profitable for the oil company to  give away too much money, and is useful to the politicians only in as much as they can get votes out of it for the next election. After that they move on to the next photo op.
We have to think that the self-sufficient frontier societies of 150 years ago have to be wedded to the techo innovations of today to keep this country going and for it to thrive. Be sure to write your congress person.
June 20,2010
Now that BP has come up with 20 billion the first interesting point is that it could not deliver the funds directly or quickly to the people who need it. No, they gave the money to the US government. Be prepared for a long wait while the state and local politicians hop a plane to washington to see if they can get their hands on that money and control of it's distribution so as to dole it out to friends, supporters who can help them get re-elected while the people in the gulf deplete their life savings, go into debt, search for other work, prepare for cleanup which might last years, contemplate that 1/3 of the gulf being poisioned, while the marshlands affected by the spill die and make the land areas more vunerable to hurricanes just months away.
Things ain't going so swell.
So what to do?
First get the money out of the US hands to local banks and /or co-ops formed by the communities themselves, composed of the members of that community. (A pipe dream I know)  But some people have formed communities and they ought to be encouraged.
Secondly, a regional disaster recovery plan ought to be instituted following the steps I have outlined above. (Has anyone heard from FEMA lately?)
We ought to be hiring the unemployed and the skilled to go down to institute the plan on a regional basis. First we need to implement the short term emergency plan I outlined about while simultaneouly instituting the long term plans I identified.Note here the the ability of residents in the area to earn a livelihood from the Gulf may be affected for many years. A new plan for the small towns in the area has to be created So what is to be the new self-sustaining model for the area? Obviously the last plan of depending upon the sea and tourism didn't work so well.
I like the idea of desalination of the sea, solar power and water power from the Gulf. Make the hurricanes pay from them selves by harnassing the wind to produce electricity. Just a thought. Here would be cheap energy, cheap labor and we could introduce elements of cheap food.
Will this happen? Only God knows, but I would not take odds on it.
I asked the Muse Whither America?
'I see millions in the broken cities
crowding debt,
unhappiness.
I see families un-affordable,
single parents struggling;
.
I see the children no longer able to afford the big houses
and the old ones abandon the homestead,
and crowd back to the cities.
The young ones can't find work;
its five to a house.
.
The Americans, the British, the Italians
the Russians, all of Western Europe
can not
duplicate themselves and they perish
replaced by the poor ones from the South
and the East.
All the world comes together to confront Destiny.
Whither the Planet?
But hope there is:
There will be in America
repatriation of the rural lands;
the abandonment of the cites
and massive building of rural technology-based enclaves;
smart technology driven, green based and self sufficient.
America's salvation there.
Economies will move toward barter exchange
because currency will fail,
replaced by new systems and gains in efficiency
Government will devolve to less control
less bureaucracy;
more local control
weak confederations instead.
The village life returns.
Crafts replace portions of profit-based technology.
Old skills of self-sufficiency revive.
Nation states are weakened,
and cross-national enclaves emerge
where ideas cross boundaries.
Real democracy will thrive in smaller settings.
This will be
whether there is disaster
or planning for this.
Disaster will give us small enclaves
but bands of mauraders
and bandit bands
who leave the cites
when the five day supply of food gives out;
their enclaves are forced and violent.
The better way is the one I describe.
In your life-time son
40 years hence
this will be
but which future.
will it be?
When will my angel come?
My breathing's coming so much harder
I think it's time for me to slip away
My soul is coming out my body
And darkness finds my eyes
But then your voice calls me back to light.
Chorus:
When my heart is gone
And my life means naught
And it's just an endless darkness that I trod
I have you
and that soothes my very soul
When I cannot live
And I'm too weak to go on
And there's nothing more that I feel I can do
I have you with me
And that's all I'll ever want
Verse 2:
Your hand is reaching out to catch me
To pull me up from this sea I'm drowning in
And now you put your arms around me
Which causes me to smile =)
Cause when the final blow was coming
You shielded me, you brought me back to health
And when I thought my story'd ended
You came and turned the page
And I am sure that I'll remember
(repeat C)
Shelter me with your wings
So I don't have to fear anything
(4 measures rest-awesome orchestral part =))
You'll never know how much you mean to me, baby.
You gave me love; that's all that I'll ever need
When tears are falling down my face,
you make it better when you hold me
You are my angel
(repeat C 2x)
I have you with me
And that's all I'll ever want
I have you
And that soothes my very soul
When I cannot live
And I'm too weak to go on
And there's nothing more that I feel I can do
I have you with me
And that's all I'll ever want...yeah.
Beyond every breath of heart
An angel draw a tear;
in her own way of sensing,
she gave the best of things.
She throw more bits of self
to satisfy her home at rest;
She gambled a bit of her own soul
staggered by the whims
of her own solace.
She recalled a covenant to him at best
to settle with her heart at rest.
A friend, yes am I to her from afar
who took her pains to find a peace impart!
Sometimes life gives us severe shock,
Undermines the plans and does block,
The ways of wisdom leading ahead,
Reveals the hands that secretly mock.
An artist thought to paint an angel,
To use the brush for the masterpiece,
But could not conceptualize the image,
Beauty combining innocence, purity.
One morn, at last, he luckily found,
A child playing on the grassy ground,
Having angelic countenance and grace,
Incarnation he was of sublime serenity.
Painted he the angel with skill utmost,
And earned he the world wide fame.
And he after three full fleeting decades,
Thought for the second master-sketch,
Now not of an angel, but of a devil.
He sought for the image far and wide,
But could not find corresponding one,
Fate then led him amid the prison walls,
There inside met he a young wretch man,
With a devilish nature, face and frame.
The master revealed his intent to paint,
Tears came in eyes of the devil formed,
Said he, “Oh! Master it is a matter of woe,
You sketched me an angel thirty years ago.”
I love to be free, among the clouds
And dancing,
It is here, where I meet with you,
Among the clouds romancing.
Unbinding are my hands,
As you set me free
You set my soul on fire
Enchanted, I climb high and higher
The pill, the coating
My angel, my plaything
Lighting flashes through the rain,
You come walking clearing the way
You move around me filling my chest, invoking emotions
An Aphrodite teasing priestess, and here in the heat of the night
And the light of the day, you remove everything
That ever stood in my way
The crash of confusion and the weight of dismay
Is halted, lifted and taken away
Replaced with enchantment and lyrical gift
Smoothing over the cracks of inner personal rift
The aches the pains, there all pulled away
By horse drawn chariots, made of gold clay
Enlightenment falls upon me, from emotional release
In this realm where I lay with ease,  surrounded by passionate love and harmonious peace
Your invoked emotions become entrancing
My analgesic angel, my psychedelic plaything
I take your hand, and you entwine with mine
The air falls silently still, seduction of my mind and will
I fall into you, you become one with me
You are my paradise shore, I’m you amorous sea
Frolicking in the surf with whispers of love,
Transfiguration of its purity into the whitest of doves
With exquisite form a launch from surf to sky
And now air born once more we fly, into tranquillity
Through the all Seeing Eye, a thunderous crash entering
The kaleidoscope sky, toward our final nirvana and our ultimate heights
As we now start the end of our heaven spent time in
The world, the realms and the clouds of the sky, the
Imprinted memories dress the sky as stars, and find the glowing
Sparkling spectacle further more enchants my mind
A roar thunder and a bolt of light the advancing
Waves of clouds unite, approaching faster then
A ferocious tide, time is almost up, on my
Analgesic angel and on the only world I dearly love
The air begins to whisper, a reduction of my mind and will
You hand slips go as you leave and untwines itself from me
My analgesic angel my psychedelic plaything
You revoke the emotions that are still entrancing
No more at ease, at a loss without the passionate love and harmonious peace
The enlightenment lifts from me, from emotional retreat
The horse drawn chariots made of gold clay
Pulling the return of the aches and the pains
Fracture again the surface of inner personal rift
Retracted and chained is the enchantment and lyrical gift
The crash of confusion and the weight of dismay
Is returning heavy and heading my way
Without the heat of the night and the light of the day
Everything that returns will remain in my way
Revoked emotions now fleeing my chest, from a retreating
Aphrodite teasing priestess
The pill, the coating
My angel, my plaything
Lighting flashes bringing the rain,
You go leaving and obscuring the way
Binding are my hands,
As without you I’m not free
Extinguish my burning soul
Disenchanted, I fall, fall and fall
I love to be free, among the clouds
And dancing,
And I will return in time, as this
World of realms and rhymes
Resides discreetly, somewhere in my mind
A small garden, lush with flowers
Pinks and whites and lavenders
Specked with candles in colored glass
Strolled two young and handsome lovers.
The moon was half a glass of wine,
The stars were shards of shattered glass.
The water tumbled through its bed
Where the gentleman walked beside his lass.
The grass wrapped around their ankles
As the candlelight dappled the stream
And the stones shone white in the moon
But none outshone the young girl’s beam.
And I sat on my windowsill,
Watching with a smile for the two,
As I picked up my rough wooden flute
And began to play a romantic tune.
Isn't is sad when an angel cries?
Small pearl drops fall from the skies,
holy water flows in tears,
human burdens their only fears.
They live among us everyday,
to help guide us on our way,
it upsets them to hear our lies,
Isn't it sad when an angel cries?
Everyday they absorb our pain,
in their tears it will remain,
we may ask what goods it for?
But everyday they are fighting our war.
Some battles won whilst others lost,
earth to be rebuilt at such a cost,
life streams are broken when they try,
isn't it sad for an angle to cry?
It is raining
Slowly
In Detroit tonight.
It makes you think
God has
No sense of time.
Somewhere in the world
There is a girl
Who should have
Her forehead kissed
Before she falls asleep
He walked away into the night,
His knuckles swollen from the fight,
A smile beneath his swollen eye,
Much satisfaction in his sigh.
He left behind a crumpled lump
A man who’d had a well-earned thump,
A bully belly filled with beer,
A crowd that had recoiled in fear.
He’d done his bit and saved the day,
Restored some order to the fray.
They watched him as went from view
Lost in the shadows he passed through.
“Forgive me, Lord”,  he stopped to pray,
“I know that’s not the angels’ way”.
The Lord said “When you deal with man,
You have to do the best you can..
I saw you really had no choice,
I saw those that you helped rejoice.
Now go and read the Holy Book
And do some work on that left hook.”
How sweet it were, if without feeble fright,
Or dying of the dreadful beauteous sight,
An angel came to us, and we could bear
To see him issue from the silent air
At evening in our room, and bend on ours
His divine eyes, and bring us from his bowers
News of dear friends, and children who have never
Been dead indeed,--as we shall know forever.
Alas! we think not what we daily see
About our hearths,--angels that are to be,
Or may be if they will, and we prepare
Their souls and ours to meet in happy air;--
A child, a friend, a wife whose soft heart sings
In unison with ours, breeding its future wings.
Maybe I have wings
That only need to stretch
For you to see them
The wings that you may see
Are not of the brightest white
But of black with hints of red
I’m not the fairy light of innocence
I don’t shine with unnatural brightness
My thoughts are not the purest
I’m an angel of a different kind
Not the one that sings glory in high or praises Halleluiah
You won’t meet me at St. Peters gates
I’m a dark sort of being
And I may not be the chosen guardian
But I will still guard from afar
Know that I will always be watching
And praying for your well being
And from me love will always be flowing
A dark angelic being
Misunderstood in living
An angel of a different kind
An angel of grace
With beauty to spare
Eyes of pure amber
And velvet soft hair
So lithe and so sleek
Her skin soft and white
A vision from heaven
A breath taking sight
Full of love and compassion
Faith and desire
She touches my heart
With fingers of fire
She harbours my soul
In sweet dreams of bliss
Awaiting with fervour
The touch of her kiss
To send me to heaven
Or condemn me to hell
This Russian roulette
Cast under her spell.
An Angel came one morning,
A visit he did pay.
That angel took my baby,
And tore my heart away.
So innocent was my baby,
An angel in my eye.
My baby didn't whimper,
Only gave a little sigh.
I truly love that baby,
More than words could ever say.
Lord, why did that angel come,
And take my babe away?
The answers, I will never know,
For it is your chosen way.
I know my babe's in heaven,
Safe in your arms, I pray.
Lord, help me to see that light,
So that I may understand.
And when I see my babe again,
It is in your promised land.
Love...  which love?
What this word mean?
What this word mean if you love someone you did not even see his face?
What this word mean if you love someone you did not even hear his voice?
You know him just by talking on glassy screen
You feel that you know him since long time
You feel that this one is the perfect person to be your best friend
You see him like an angel fall from the sky to take you to the heaven
But why?
Why you put your trust in this person
How do you know that he did not lie on you?
Also you can not confess that you can not believe that this person may be will lie on you
Or if he consider that you are just lie in his life
Because his friendship blinded you
You do not care what he believes in or what his ideas in this life
You know that you are in another life
But you have to know that you do the truth
Because you can not stop your heart of doing something
Angel angel, tell me true-
Is his heart as big and true
As his eyes make me believe?
Angel, angel, tell me please.
Angel, secret friends are rare;
Such kindly faces, liars wear-
But he's a different kind, I think-
Would he stay, if I should blink?
Angel angel, nights are long;
All for him, I'd write my songs;
Angel, whisper in his ear-
Tell him: 'Joy- when you are near.'
Look longingly,
eye on the prize,
distant horizon; whatever...
it is not enough to have
desire burning in your heart,
your loins aching for another...
what then does pain add
to th'equation? ? It is rooted
in trauma of forgotten years
now nightmares remember'd.
Stumbling towards
a new epiphany,
recognition of the Goddess
who inhabits you &
who you most truly are,
your tenderness makes
pain so fresh & new
it hurts just to think about it:
to remember movie images
slide show multimedia playing
in flickers your childhood shame...
Do not fear memory, let it go
release the pain in tears
in poetry any way you can.
Hold that wounded child.
Heal her.  Embrace her tenderly
& let her know she is strong enough,
good enough & she deserves:
just because she is...
& so do you:
angel dancer
spinner of light
mistress of the cool, dark night.
Hold th'evening star in hand,
lead singer of th'angel band,
dancing in a circle
you open your arms & embrace
a glittering, velvet expanse of sky...
(Copyright 11/21/05)
Angel eyes are colourblind,
On a whim she lost my mind,
Something's there I'll never find,
Angel eyes are colourblind.
Cigarettes and alcohol
Are all that I have now,
Still I ask and get answered how,
Cigarettes and alcohol.
The pain I feel I can't explain,
Blackened clouds with soaking rain,
She is not a word I'll name,
The pain I feel I can't explain.
Angel wings sing a song,
I know now they can't be wrong,
The path I walk is always long,
Angel wings sing a song.
I am broken I am torn,
I am a life left unborn,
I feel used I feel worn,
I am broken I am torn.
I lie bleeding on the floor,
I know not what this is for,
All I need is more more more,
I lie bleeding on the floor,
Angel eyes are colourblind,
On a whim she lost my mind,
Something's there I'll never find,
Angel eyes are colourblind.
An Angel passed my way today,
And left a feather just to say,
I’ll help you, watch you, be your guide,
I’m always with you by your side,
And all the times when you feel low,
I’ll be your strength and help you grow,
And as you take these things from me,
Your eyes will open and you’ll see,
A whole new world begin to form,
A whole new world a brand new dawn,
She's sweet as a honey on a bacon
fitted like icings on a cake;
So cloudy, bloomy, and easy
in her own world in calvary.
She seems confused of things can be
like a sunbeam hiding underneath a tree;
You would look at her in gloomy feather
never have gotten to fly on free!
She's sweet as a honey on a bacon
fitted like icings on a cake;
So intriguing, lighting, and melting
in her own world of flying.
She seems downed of things will be
like a skyhawk revving up a sea;
You would see her flirting the storm
never have gotten to land on free!
Oh sweet as it may my angel from home
The whole wide world is yours alone!
Have to carry it last deep in your heart
Your moment of happiness never go fast.
Love is some trick
You play on me,
Some sleight, some glance,
Tenacity!
You tumble the sheets
At my marriage bed
And ride with me, desperately
Angel Head.
Caught at your eyes,
Your thighs, your touch,
I ramp at your sighs
Your cries – Enough!
Then drown in lips
That would raise me, dead,
And sleep at you breathlessly,
Angel Head.
17 April 1987
You're my angel in disguise
You read my soul with your eyes
Your spirit has entered my heart
And it's my hope we never part
For you are so special to me,
Without you, my heart would weep bitterly.
You're my angel in disguise
Your love comforts my cries
At night you guide me through the strife
And it is for that, my dear angel,
I owe you my life.
There's an angel in my pocket
who is watching over me,
just a little voice down deep inside
that I can hear, not see.
I wish that I could let her out
so that everyone could see
'cause we have the greatest secrets,
many things she shares with me.
She whispers little things to do
to make my parents glad
and tells me when there's something
that I want to do that's bad.
Oh I wish that I could see her
not just hear her talk to me...
it's just a little voice down deep inside
that I can hear, not see.
There is an angel hiding in the dark
He is a sad one
Though he will not stop
Till he gets his mark
Though he still wont be done
Till he gets to the top
So there will be alot more deaths
Though he does get ticked
Cause his job will always go on
He will put to the tests
To measure how wicked
But that will not change the fact of him being a con
But be warned
For you will meet the fate
of all those mourned
This is in the Dark angels state
In the darkness of your sorrow
In the emptiness of grief
When the hope of understanding has gone dim,
From a realm beyond the senses
Comes a warmth beyond belief
As silent wings enfold  your troubled soul:
Let an angel work its wonder
Let it circle you with light
As you sacrifice the burdens of your heart,
Soon the fearfulness is lifted
With the darkness of the night
Let the wonders of your spirit be restored;
For an angel has embraced you
With a passion undefined,
An endless love surpassing time and space -
And once that love has touched you
You will know beyond the mind
That your soul has found a state of perfect grace.
May angels always care for you,
May they keep you standing tall,
May they whisper in your ears words of wisdom,
May they show you what you need to know
May you always have an angel,
Sent by God to your side,
Someone there to catch you fast,
If sometimes you were to fall
May you have someone wonderful to love,
May angels teach you love untold,
May you have hopes to keep you safe and warm,
And give you all the gifts of love and life
May they keep their lights on you,
To guide every step of your way,
And keep you from each and all harm,
Each and every new day
May you always have an angel,
That speaks through your heart,
To help you pick up the pieces,
When everything for you goes bad
Who cut your wings my angel?
Who destroyed your dreams today?
Who kneeled you down to humiliate you?
And who put your soul in a cage?
Let me cure you love
Let me give you my love
Angel of love don't fall down
Don't abandon yourself
Who tied your arms, tied your wish?
Who killed your smile, killed your life?
Who bled your lips and your creed?
Why did you let it happen angel of love?
Angel of love
Open your wings and let your dreams fly
Let me cure you love
I'll give you all my love
Angel of love please don't fall again
When you think you're all alone
and troubles come your way
There's an angel on your shoulder
To guide you everyday.
With a white light
Shining brightly
To protect you day and night
This angel on your shoulder.
Will never leave your sight.
You call me an angel of love and of light,
A being of goodness and heavenly fire,
Sent out from God’s kingdom to guide you aright,
In paths where your spirits may mount and aspire.
You say that I glow like a star on its course,
Like a ray from the alter, a spark from the source.
Now list to my answer; let all the world hear it;
I speak unafraid what I know to be true:
A pure, faithful love is the creative spirit
Which makes women angels! I live in but you.
We are bound soul to soul by life’s holiest laws;
If I am an angel – why, you are the cause.
As my ship skims the sea, I look up from the deck.
Fair, firm at the wheel shines Love’s beautiful form,
And shall I curse the barque that last night went to wreck,
By the Pilot abandoned to darkness and storm?
My craft is no stauncher, she too had been lost –
Had the wheelman deserted, or slept at his post.
I laid down the wealth of my soul at your feet
(Some woman does this for some man every day) .
No desperate creature who walks in the street,
Has a wickeder heart that I might have, I say,
Had you wantonly misused the treasures you woon,
-As so many men with heart riches have done.
This flame from God’s altar, this holy love flame,
That burns like sweet incense for ever for you,
Might now be a wild conflagration of shame,
Had you tortured my heart, or been base or untrue.
For angels and devils are cast in one mould,
Till love guides them upward, or downward, I hold.
I tell you the women who make fervent wives
And sweet tender mothers, had Fate been less fair,
Are the women who might have abandoned their lives
To the madness that springs from and ends in despair.
As the fire on the hearth which sheds brightness around,
Neglected, may level the walls to the ground.
The world makes grave errors in judging these things,
Great good and great evil are born in one breast.
Love horns us and hoofs us – or gives us our wings,
And the best could be worst, as the worst could be best.
You must thank your own worth for what I grew to be,
For the demon lurked under the angel in me.
I walked
upon
a
Darkened Path.
and
found there
an
Angel corpse
with rotting
flesh
and
plagued
with
Maggots
writhing
in it's
Skull...
It's
Wings
were
Ripped and
Torn
off
Leaving
Deep
Bloody
holes...
I squint through the keyhole,
Push open the door,
Pearly white feathers lie strewn on the floor.
From pigeons these feathers could well have been hacked,
But blood streams in rivers from a dark angel's back.
Who would have committed this hideous crime?
Pulled the wings off an angel and hurled her through time?
The knife in her grasp silently answers for me,
There's a reason she sits there, all naked and gory.
To be human's her wish,
Just one sacrifice.
Will grant her desire,
Her wings will suffice.
Her hair is all matted and her hand shakes with pain,
But her eyes show no loss,
Only sparkle with gain.
She's amazed at the knowledge that she's human at last,
Time to move on and invent a new past.
Her bright smile falters,
Her eyes show new fear.
No longer immortal,
Her blood debt's too dear.
I back through the feathers still scattered on the floor,
Take the key from the keyhole and pull shut the door.
angel
my baby
my little girl
a christmas baby
my little angel
It’s been five months since you went away
Left without a word and nothing to say
When I was the one who gave you my heart and soul
But it wasn’t good enough for you, no
So I asked god
God send me an angel
From the heavens above
Send me an angel to heal my broken heart
From being in love
’cause all I do is cry
God send me an angel
To wipe the tears from my eyes
And I know it might sound crazy
But after all that I still love you
You wanna come back in my life
But now there is something I have to do
I have to tell the one that I once adored
That they can’t have my love no more
Cause my heart can’t take no more lies
And my eyes are all out of cries
God send me an angel
From the heavens above
Send me an angel to heal my broken heart
From being in love
’cause all I do is cry
God send me an angel
To wipe the tears from my eyes
Now you had me on my knees
Begging God please to send you back to me
I couldn’t eat, I couldn’t sleep
You made me feel like I could not breathe
Now all I wanted to do was to feel your touch
And give you all my love
But you took my love for granted
Want my lovin’ now
But you can’t have it
God
God send me an angel
From the heavens above
Send me an angel to heal my broken heart
From being in love
’cause all I do is cry
God send me an angel
To wipe the tears from my eyes
Oh god, send me (God send me an angel)
An angel (wipe the tears from my eyes)  oh baby
Send me an angel from the heavens above
Send me an angel (God send me an angel)
From being in love (send me an angel)
Oh god, send me an angel
Send me an angel (send me an angel)
Ooohhhh..
I saw an angel with a broken wing
I saw an angel cry
I mended it with bits of string
And told her she could fly.
I handed her my handkerchief
To wipe the tear away
And told her all was well again
I think I made her day.
She thanked me with an angel's kiss
And like a butterfly
She closed her wings then opened them
And rose into the sky.
Now she is back in heaven
And I'm here on the ground
And I think somehow that we got
Our roles the wrong way round.
My sweet beautiful angel.
Sent to me from above.
I am so grateful to have found you,
and I give you all my love.
You must have come from heaven,
because you have pretty little angel eyes.
When you gaze at me with them,
my heart begins to fly.
Your sweet angelic voice,
continuously rings in my ears.
With you by my side,
there is nothing I fear.
Whenever we are together,
You shine with a heavenly glow.
Your beautiful angel face,
raises me up from feeling low.
Yes, heaven is missing an angel,
because you are here with me.
You're my sweet, beautiful angel,
and I'll love you for eternity!
Morning, evening, noon and night,
``Praise God!; sang Theocrite.
Then to his poor trade he turned,
Whereby the daily meal was earned.
Hard he laboured, long and well;
O'er his work the boy's curls fell.
But ever, at each period,
He stopped and sang, ``Praise God!''
Then back again his curls he threw,
And cheerful turned to work anew.
Said Blaise, the listening monk, ``Well done;
``I doubt not thou art heard, my son:
``As well as if thy voice to-day
``Were praising God, the Pope's great way.
``This Easter Day, the Pope at Rome
``Praises God from Peter's dome.''
Said Theocrite, ``Would God that I
``Might praise him, that great way, and die!''
Night passed, day shone,
And Theocrite was gone.
With God a day endures alway,
A thousand years are but a day.
God said in heaven, ``Nor day nor night
``Now brings the voice of my delight.''
Then Gabriel, like a rainbow's birth,
Spread his wings and sank to earth;
Entered, in flesh, the empty cell,
Lived there, and played the craftsman well;
And morning, evening, noon and night,
Praised God in place of Theocrite.
And from a boy, to youth he grew:
The man put off the stripling's hue:
The man matured and fell away
Into the season of decay:
And ever o'er the trade he bent,
And ever lived on earth content.
(He did God's will; to him, all one
If on the earth or in the sun.)
God said, ``A praise is in mine ear;
``There is no doubt in it, no fear:
``So sing old worlds, and so
``New worlds that from my footstool go.
``Clearer loves sound other ways:
``I miss my little human praise.''
Then forth sprang Gabriel's wings, off fell
The flesh disguise, remained the cell.
'Twas Easter Day: he flew to Rome,
And paused above Saint Peter's dome.
In the tiring-room close by
The great outer gallery,
With his holy vestments dight,
Stood the new Pope, Theocrite:
And all his past career
Came back upon him clear,
Since when, a boy, he plied his trade,
Till on his life the sickness weighed;
And in his cell, when death drew near,
An angel in a dream brought cheer:
And rising from the sickness drear
He grew a priest, and now stood here.
To the East with praise he turned,
And on his sight the angel burned.
``I bore thee from thy craftsman's cell
``And set thee here; I did not well.
``Vainly I left my angel-sphere,
``Vain was thy dream of many a year.
``Thy voice's praise seemed weak; it dropped---
``Creation's chorus stopped!
``Go back and praise again
``The early way, while I remain.
``With that weak voice of our disdain,
``Take up creation's pausing strain.
``Back to the cell and poor employ:
``Resume the craftsman and the boy!''
Theocrite grew old at home;
A new Pope dwelt in Peter's dome.
One vanished as the other died:
They sought God side by side.
i smile a fake smile
so no one can actually see
that my pain is over whelming
that i could never leave
if any one were to ask,
i would have to say
i'm a broken angel
or i could fly away
no one has ever noticed
my eyes are always filled with tears
my heart is always breaking
and i don't want to be here
i don't think i'm an angel
for i don't believe in it
but in some ways i'm a BROKEN angel
hoping to fly away
i sperad my wings
i try to fly
but my hope
has already died
i let tears fall
i yell to someone
i reach out my hand
i run down the hall
no one chases after me
no one screams my name
i'll try to fly
if my wings don't burn
i'm a broken angel
i WANT to fly away
this broken angel
has almost died
i can't go to heaven
i've sinned too much
i can't go to hell
i've sinned not enough
i'm a broken angel
i need to fly
THIS broken angel
has pretty much died
i was lost and alone, as I always am,
no one's around me nor understands
no one seems to care
I am waiting til it comes
they say its okay
and love me in some way
But just when I trust to love,
they forget what they say
i held the knife so close
as tears fall mixed with blood with purpose
began to fall slowly and lose
like a crazy crying  dead rose
i put the knife away and tried to wipe the blood,
that ran faster than I can describe.
an angel tapped my back
i saw him with wide open heart
thank you angel, my dear angel love
you took me out of the dark
and bring back my soul
you are angel, you are my all
- i love u my dark angel -
(Humbly dedicated to my only angel, my cricket angel, my dark angel)
As I woke up from dreaming
I quickly stood up scared and crying
Suddenly, I heard a whisper inviting
T’was a strange voice I was seeking
I looked around my dark lonely room
I find nothing and still all alone
Night was about to end that dawn
Hopeless, Yes! That’s my home
Sun started to rise in the morning
Someone touched me with an invisible wing
Wrapped with  his arms around my being
He was an angel, I was waiting!
Dark angel, my angel - you are amazing
Faith and love are just same things
For an angel like you, I received these blessings
I LOVE YOU my angel, you filled my soul with meaning
always,
(your butterfly angel)
As she walks through
the darkness
She feels the eyes
Burning a whole in her
She knows that its him
Her Dark Angel
Her protector
Her lover
Everything that she is
supposed to hate
But she cant help herself
Love is swelling inside of her
For her Dark Angel
Her handsome, sweet,
Dark Angel.
I see you now,
and it makes me cry in my heart,
one so beautiful, and yet,
so damaged and messed up inside.
The scars that line your arms,
look like the intricate artwork of a tattooist,
those razor cuts and puncture wounds,
signs of a desparate cry for help.
That vacant look upon your face,
the doctors miracle cure;
Prozac, takes all your troubles away,
but all it does is pushes them deeper inside.
I see you now,
and it makes me cry in my heart,
one so beautiful, and yet,
so damaged and messed up inside.
My dark angel...
guess what? other boys
ask god for heaven, holiday
and presents but i ask god
for an angel, white angel
with his big feathery wings
like what we see of gabriel
and guess what? yes, god did send
the angel to my dream one night
so huge were his wings
i found myself ruffling the feathers
as he stood tall
without even uttering a word
the strong feathers
which felt so warm
then the sudden fear
that he was coming
to take away mother
angel does this thing
says the bible
how i had cried
screamed that he would not
take mom away
the heaven reverberated
with my plea
i woke up tearsoaked
and glad that it was just a dream
glad that god had let me
see an angel
an angel with his large
feathery wings
that stands so tall
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
You leave a lasting impression,
to everyone you see and touch,
You do it at your own discretion, and
you do it oh so much.
You do not fly, you have no wings,
but you have so many other things.
You have that face of mellow, that
Melancholy way.  You have a smile
that lingers and the soft touch of
your fingers.
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
I long to be near you, to feel your warm
embrace.     I feel empowered when I look
into your face. I love to listen to your
inspiration and the wisdom of your years.
It is then when I feel the formation of
happy, flowing tears.
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
You have been given a very special job,
from the  master up  above, a job that
allows you to spread an array of fragrant
love.
You were born on this earth and given
a light within.  A light that shines bright
to friends, strangers and kin.  You have
the ability to give that peaceful essence,
to those that must give up their earthly
bodily presence.
Do you know who you are, earth angel.
You are a seed of nature, a glowing
earthly creature with gifts of heavenly
glints to bestow upon earths people. The
fathers and the mothers, the sisters and the
brothers, the aunts and the uncles, the
cousins and the friends. You have much
work to do with the enemies too.  You
won’t be afraid, to you it’s very clear, you
always knew there was a special reason for
your presence here.
Earth angel, this has become your passion.
You know now what to do, now is the time
to accept your blessings and see them
through.
Written:  July 21/2006
Being an earthbound angel
her wings curled up
enclosing her/cloaking her
parted letting him in
watching herself from afar
each time desiring/regretting the parting
lost in sensuous pleasures
feeding baser appetites
in the garden of earthly delights
in search of an unbounded love
seeking an Adonis
a satyr/a faun
who satisfies her desires
unable to see beyond the masks
willingly seduced
after a few drinks
the short lived affair
lasting a night or a weekend
left feeling confused
only to begin her search again -
From out of her eyes I see
a light shimmering
round about her body
shimmers
as she dips her wings in mud
the light fades
the burden too great
she goes on to fulfill her fate
trapped in an unending cycle
believing she can expect no more
of life than this
shapes her life to come
of an unending line of lovers
in the end all the same
all interchangeable -
Awakened from my apathetic cynical slumber
her angelic singing soothes
me for a moment /gives me hope
as her wings unfold
I desire to be enfolded
by the golden haired angel
her eyes innocent & forgiving
her face full of light
to be enfolded in her wings
of shimmering pure light
to soar above this city
bathed in her cool bluesy voice
before she becomes earthbound again -
How do I say this?
I guess I'll start out with 'thank you.'
It's always seemed that I was never really able to explain
How much you mean to me
How all those conversations that you probably didn't think twice about
Made me feel so blessed just to know you
You've been more than just a friend, you've been my guardian angel
Some of my other friends watch out for me
And they sometimes help me when I'm depressed
But you were always there to find out what was the matter even if no one else was
You were always so persistant, asking 'What's wrong? Is there anything I can do? '
Sometimes the answer was no, no one could help me
And yet you didn't give up. 'Please tell me if you're willing, I just want to make you feel better.'
You got annoying sometimes, you were so stubborn.
Thank you.
You weren't perfect, no, no one is, but it always seemed to me that you were so close.
I guess I wanted to be more like you, because you were such a wonderful person
Most friends don't last forever, I know,
But I've been praying that you and I stay friends for eternity
Because otherwise I don't think I can make it
Without you my life would be worthless
What would I do with myself? I wouldn't know where to go
But you've always been there to guide me, helping me even when you didn't realize it.
I could've sworn that your mere presence was slowly healing old wounds
You made me laugh, and you would have cried with me if I'd asked
I don't think I can express in words how grateful I am to you, just for putting up with me.
I know it must be hard.
Knowing you surely won't mind, I hope I can ask just one more favor?
Never stop being who you are
And never leave me. I know I drive you up the wall sometimes but I need you.
Thank you, my guardian angel.
My fallen angel.
I have fallen from sky,
Fallen to the ground,
I am the angel of sadness,
Angel of lost hopes,
Angel of lost dreams,
I am the fallen angel,
Fear me not,
I am here for reason,
That reason is to have a second chance in life,
That life I was given for a reason,
They took my wings,
They took me apart made me human,
I was the fallen angel,
But that fallen angel had one chance in life that she was given,
This angel won’t make the same mistakes she made before,
This angel will go down the right path that has been chosen for her,
This fallen angel know what she has to do to be forgiven.
Verse 1:
Life is like a broken dream
And I can't even feel you out there anymore
(No I can't, and it kills me)
Baby, yes I'm still your angel
But my wings fell out so long ago
And now flying o'er horizon's just a wistful stare
My Nirvana's shot to Hell
And I do not think that there
Will ever be a sanctuary here
A demon rages in my soul
My body longs for desecration
Though I know there's no light beyond the tunnel there
And Twilight calls to me
Bids me sleep endlessly
The halo from my hair
Falls to the floor.
Verse 2:
If you see my broken heart
Could you tell it where I am and where I'm gonna be
(It I've lost, and I'd like it back)
I'm consumed by flames of darkness
And my mind is cursed with fantasies
That I know will never be more than forgotten dreams
My Nirvana's shot to Hell
And I know for sure that there
Will never be a sanctuary here (in me)
That demon rages in my soul
A beast that I  still yearn to vanquish
But I've no strength to lift my hand and crush it there
The darkness calls to me
And now I cannot sleep
I'm begging baby save
Me from myself
(repeat section, humming first 6 bars and singing last 4)
And sunlight blinds my eyes
Catches me by surprise
I know I'll never see
That dawn again
Falling Angel
Thank you for saving me from falling once again
God send us some sunny days and cloudy days also
Good night falling angel
And see you again tomorrow morning
Go and fly high
Let it shine above the cloudy sky
Falling Angel
You are wearing that beautiful dress with gold rim
That dress looks beautiful on you
It is one of a kind
I never saw anything like that before
So sweet; so innocent, the child of heaven
Fallen into revulsion, called Earth
Calling out to the depraved to love
And be loved
Innocent child; you are a fatuous Angel
An Angel, who should have come
Long before the conception of aversion
You could have saved the lives
of the fools that have forsaken and
destroyed what was built for them
Angel Child, can you save the fallen world now?
I think not!
You have come much too late
Our salvation is lost!
Our hopes are dissolved in desolation
I was once a believer, Angel Child
But now I do not know what to believe in
I do not feel
And I fear I have lost myself
I envision that tomorrow will bring yet more sorrow
Why have you come now
when life has lost its continuum
I once dreamt of peace, purity, concord, entente
Now I dream of madness!
Madness that has invaded this world
Madness that dwells on war, violence, antipathy, perversion
And so on
I hate the way we die in bloodshed
On what was once the Promised Land
Is it a test that God is showering on us
to consummation
Ha! I laugh at you, because you finally made me doubt
And hope once more
Hope for change!
Hope for salvation!
Angel you give hope and abandon us
And leave us to the wrath of humanity
Don’t do this to me!
Not now; not ever
Go away and leave me alone
Change the world Angel; and I will venerate you!
January 1998 – ©Copyright Lynette Dias-Gouveia
I wish I knew an angel with a warm and tender soul.
One to send Uriah so his heart could then feel whole.
He's such a  sweet romantic and he knows just what to say.
I can't believe that ''Mrs. Right'' has never come his way.
It hurts to feel his lonliness and truly feel his need.
To find a woman for this man would be so great indeed.
His tenderness could soften the heart of any beast.
Let's get a thousand women to prepare a lovely feast.
He is the guest of honor and I hope you'll all attend.
Let's find this man an angel to be with him til the end.
What is love?
An abstract word thrown recklessly about,
in this modern age of chaos.
Uttered between emotionally charged individuals,
crying out to find a reason;
A reason for life, a meaning for existance.
Perhaps this is so;
But without love, this world would descend
Into the realm of hatred that entangles it.
To me, you embody love!
Despite the endless trials and turmoil,
Your tender heart breathes affection.
Your compassionate soul seeks to find
The feature of redemption in all.
No malice can survive the torrent of love,
That courses through your veins.
Encompassing your heart with a halo,
of breathtaking sparkles.
When you walk in a room, you radiate love,
The room becomes a spectrum of light;
Tendrils of light that unfurl blissfully,
And shed gold on the darkest of places.
The smile on your face, so pure and so kind,
Embodies the child within -
The irrational, unquestioning, bravest of love,
That dares to shine out in the dark.
You are my angel;
Never change.
Guardian angel
You came just
At the right time
Watching me is my guardian angel
You kept me alive all the time
I believe in my guardian angel
He watches me
There were times that were tough
There were days that I didn't know
If I would be alive
After all I've gone through this year
Guardian Angel
Stay and watch me
I like to have someone like you around
The light is shining
Twinkling, twinkling
Twinkling, star
Shining above
In the sky of
São Paulo
Guardian angel
Don't leave me lonely
Protect me and guide me
Against all evil things
I owe my every effort to
Her love, everlasting and true.
In her silence, I am able to speak
and see all things beautiful.
She never left me.
She isn't gone.
I walk in solitude,
but never alone.
The angel watches me.
And in my dreams
she visits me
with a smile that's comforting
And in the morning, when I wake
I have her song to sing.
You never stand alone
When your guardian angel is always near,
During the moments of trials and tribulation,
You will never be overcome with fear.
His presence may not be seen,
Regardless of where you are,
Rest assured that his halo is always shining
Like the brightest, heavenly star.
You never stand alone,
When in your heart you know,
Your guardian angel is your protectorate,
Who hovers over you and loves you so.
A PICTURE AT FANO.
I.
Dear and great Angel, wouldst thou only leave
That child, when thou hast done with him, for me!
Let me sit all the day here, that when eve
Shall find performed thy special ministry,
And time come for departure, thou, suspending
Thy flight, mayst see another child for tending,
Another still, to quiet and retrieve.
II.
Then I shall feel thee step one step, no more,
From where thou standest now, to where I gaze,
---And suddenly my head is covered o'er
With those wings, white above the child who prays
Now on that tomb---and I shall feel thee guarding
Me, out of all the world; for me, discarding
Yon heaven thy home, that waits and opes its door.
III.
I would not look up thither past thy head
Because the door opes, like that child, I know,
For I should have thy gracious face instead,
Thou bird of God! And wilt thou bend me low
Like him, and lay, like his, my hands together,
And lift them up to pray, and gently tether
Me, as thy lamb there, with thy garment's spread?
IV.
If this was ever granted, I would rest
My bead beneath thine, while thy healing hands
Close-covered both my eyes beside thy breast,
Pressing the brain, which too much thought expands,
Back to its proper size again, and smoothing
Distortion down till every nerve had soothing,
And all lay quiet, happy and suppressed.
V.
How soon all worldly wrong would be repaired!
I think how I should view the earth and skies
And sea, when once again my brow was bared
After thy healing, with such different eyes.
O world, as God has made it! All is beauty:
And knowing this, is love, and love is duty.
What further may be sought for or declared?
VI.
Guercino drew this angel I saw teach
(Alfred, dear friend!)---that little child to pray,
Holding the little hands up, each to each
Pressed gently,---with his own head turned away
Over the earth where so much lay before him
Of work to do, though heaven was opening o'er him,
And he was left at Fano by the beach.
VII.
We were at Fano, and three times we went
To sit and see him in his chapel there,
And drink his beauty to our soul's content
---My angel with me too: and since I care
For dear Guercino's fame (to which in power
And glory comes this picture for a dower,
Fraught with a pathos so magnificent)---
VIII.
And since he did not work thus earnestly
At all times, and has else endured some wrong---
I took one thought his picture struck from me,
And spread it out, translating it to song.
My love is here. Where are you, dear old friend?
How rolls the Wairoa at your world's far end?
This is Ancona, yonder is the sea.
limestone, with traces of polychromy, c. 1250
Point Dume was the point,
he said, but we never came close,
no matter how far we walked the shale
broken from California.
Someone's garden
had slipped, hanging itself by a vine
from the cliffs of some new Babylon
past Malibu.
Drowning the words,
the wind didn't fling back in our faces,
the Pacific washed up a shell:
around an alabastron
of salt water for the dead,
seaweed rustled its papers, drying them out,
until it died.  Waves kept crashing
into the heart
of each shell
I held to my ear like a phone,
but they were just the waves of my blood.
And through it all
I heard him say,
how could it be nine months ago
his grandson had taken his own life,
somewhere back east?
He was fifteen.
O Pacific, what good is our grief?
Something screamed at the sandy child
who poured seawater
into a hole.
Child, you'll never empty the ocean,
Augustine said.  How can I believe?
The wet fist of a wave
dissolved in sand.
Like a saint, a seagull flapped down the beach
in search of something raw—an angel
with an empty pail?
No, a teenage boy,
hands big as a man's, held a sea slug
quaking like an aspic.  Under a rock, another
drew into its body
a creature
larger than itself.  Live, said Death,
to child and childless alike, indifferently.
I am coming.
Actually, the whole entire poem's subject to change.  give tips if you want.  Dedicated to all the people I've ever cared about, even the ones who hurt me, played me, and lied to me.  They were my angels...once upon a time. Based on a painfully true story.
i still dream about it...
reaching across the chasm
to grasp your hand.
i didn't make it there,
but i did catch a glimpse
of your angelic face
and the smile that graced it;
a light  piercing through,
compassionate and pure-
it caused tears to flow down
from my eyes.
a whole world separates
us now...an entire destiny
graced by another
more capable goddess than i.
i am vexed, yet consoled for the moment
by this bittersweet phantasma-
the vision of you...
reaching out for my hand.
I heard an Angel singing
When the day was springing,
'Mercy, Pity, Peace
Is the world's release.'
Thus he sung all day
Over the new mown hay,
Till the sun went down
And haycocks looked brown.
I heard a Devil curse
Over the heath and the furze,
'Mercy could be no more,
If there was nobody poor,
And pity no more could be,
If all were as happy as we.'
At his curse the sun went down,
And the heavens gave a frown.
Down pour'd the heavy rain
Over the new reap'd grain ...
And Miseries' increase
Is Mercy, Pity, Peace.
"It was wrong to do this," said the angel.
"You should live like a flower,
Holding malice like a puppy,
Waging war like a lambkin."
"Not so," quoth the man
Who had no fear of spirits;
"It is only wrong for angels
Who can live like the flowers,
Holding malice like the puppies,
Waging war like the lambkins."
They were a soft kiss that he felt on his lips.
The kiss was gentle and made him fell warm.
The kiss made him fell safe and secure.
Just for the special seconds he had her in his arms.
Even then this angel who kiss him disappeared.
He knows that deep in his heart.
He had a kiss of an angel in his heart.
In the heaven above was a little horny Angel
Now this Angel had been naughty, very naughty
And was going to be sent down to earth as a penalty
The angel would have to stay until it had learned it's lesson
Now this little angel had to fix it's thorn, to get re-born
The Horny Angel decided to go to the heart of all evil
The angel flew down to the bad-est part of Amsterdam
In the middle of the red light district, were all the horny ladies are
The angel went from door to door, hoping to help someone
But to the angels astonishment all was great in the red-light?
The angel found that they helped people to be happy, release
built up pressure inside that would explode normally, and hurt someone
So the angel flew back up to see the main man and tell him all
The main man listened and took note, but now it was his call
Well Little horny angel, I see a lot of presure inside this heaven
The little horny angel said: ' thats all sorted I open at seven'
They met back when they were both young
She gave him the love and the hope that he
Needed to fulfill his dreams
Now she is the lost angel he misses at night
She watches over him day and night
Trying to keep him out of harms way
Never knowing if he'll listen to her whispers of
warning and love
A lost angel to him
Yet she's not so far away
Trying to get through to him
To let him know she's okay
'I'll never leave you
I'll never stop loving you
I'll always be here for you just call my name'
She is constantly whispering that to her lover
Letting him know that she hasn't left him
She will constantly be near in his heart to protect
and love him
He may think she is a lost angel but if he listens
to the wind she is talking to him constantly
A lost angel with a goal
To protect and love the one she loves
To guide him through until the right time
Always whispering and saying
'Call my name and I'll be there'
She doesn't want him to stop loving others
Actually she wants him to live his life
After all there is time for her to love and
protect him
'Wait until the time is right
You will know when it is time to come home to me
For I will be there with open arms
To hold you close and never let go'
'Always know that I love you
I will never leave you alone in this world
You'll find another love and give her your heart
While knowing that I am there with you'
A lost angel smiled for a change
When the man she loves listened to her advice
Now he knows his lost angel never left
She is always by his side
The love of his life
His lost angel
When the night comes then your voice calm down
When the moon begin to sail in the sky
then your eyes are closing down to sleep
You fall asleep while dim light illuminates your room
I love to watch you sleep my little girl
You sleep like a little angel within your dreams
Your hair falls both sides of your face and
your hands  folded in to the blanket
Your pillows and bunnies are speard around you
You breath soft and low while your innocent heart
beat slowly to the merry tune
I love to watch you sleep my little baby
When I want to kiss you to say good night in your sleep
then you toss your head and stretch your little body
and turn around sleep again while holding your pillow
God brought you to me and given you as his gift
and today you are the greatest treasure in my life
Someone to laugh and dance and sing in my home
I love to watch you sleep my angel
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2004 Ravi Sathasivam
I know I haven't really been a good friend,
and I know I could of tried a little harder,
but you see I can't tell you,
how I feel about you,
the world would reject me if I did,
but I'm willing to try,
and go over the edge,
and show you how I Feel about you,
when we meet,
I was in such bad shape,
my life was crumbling all around me,
until I meet you,
my life was engulfed in darkness,
I was engulfed in my own self-pity,
I had an inescapable demon,
living inside of my head,
I had pain inside of heart,
I felting nothing but pain,
for months and months,
I thought it was inedible,
until I meet you that day,
not really suspecting anyone that would,
really care about me,
not suspecting that anyone that would even love me,
love me,
like the way that you do,
My Angel (In The Darkness)
My Angel (In The Darkness)
My Angel (In The Darkness)
I couldn't believe what I was seeing,
nor what I was saying or what I was hearing,
the world had rejected you for what you are,
and what you've done,
but do they have the eyes that I do?
was it insane of me,
to see you as the angel,
that I know you are,
and not the demon that they all make you out to be,
was I insane to see the goodness inside of you,
and was it crazy that you took the darkness outside of me,
My Angel (In The Darkness)
My Angel (In The Darkness)
My Angel (In The Darkness)
We spent each day,
and we spent each know confessing,
our sins to each other,
like it was alright,
and we knew we'd listen to each other,
but I must confess,
that’s not all that I need,
that’s not all that I want,
all that I need,
and all that I want is your love,
and your sweet choice,
the way that you would look at me and smile,
and tell me everything was going to be alright,
and just help me hold on a little bit longer,
hold on a little bit longer,
My Angel (In The Darkness)
My Angel (In The Darkness)
My Angel (In The Darkness)
she told me its okay,
to let your feelings go,
and tell people how you feel,
and if you love them,
but I couldn't really do that,
there was only one person that I've loved,
one person I could only love unconditionally
and love without temptation,
She’s My Angel (In The Darkness) ,
The only Angel I'm going to love,
My Angel (In The Darkness) ,
the only Angel I trust
My Angel (In The Darkness)
as she was there for me,
I'm going to be there for her,
I'm know her Angel In the darkness,
I am know the one that will love her unconditionally
and without temptation,
I just wanted her to know,
how much I love her and cherish her,
I love you,
My Angel (In The Darkness)
His eyes,
They follow,
Expecting...
I touch his face-
Your innocent without
Knowing it.
My Angel
The shadows gather
And he warms me
Thrills,
Holds me,
His eyes are dark,
My Angel
My soul it trails,
hoping, expecting,
Dreaming...
My Angel
An angel floated overhead,
With such soft gentle eyes,
I lay entranced upon my bed,
'Is this like when one dies? ',
The notion flashed quick through my mind,
How was it he was here,
Why was he hovering, I was inclined,
To ask, but I in fear
Did not have courage to move or speak,
I seemed completely dumb,
There was no way that I could seek
An answer, I felt too numb.
He spread his wings and flew away,
The mists rolled in above,
And I sensed that I just had to pray,
My heart was filled with love.
I raised my head and looked around,
And then suddenly I knew
It was a dream and with awareness, found
My angel had been you!
©   Ernestine Northover
o my angel, whom is suspended, ..
suspended between the sky and the earth....
whom always, i wish to reach you, ...
whom always, i dream that i reached your heart, ...
don`t ask any one, whom is your beloved, ..
and don`t choose him, by how he looks like, ...
ask your heart, ..
just ask your heart, ...
only your heart, whom knows the answer, ..
and know, who is your beloved, ..
and know, whom is your man, ..
from between all men in the world....
i put my name in your list, ...
as any dress in your closet, ..
and maybe that to hesitate for, to choose, ..
between your dresses, ..
and i accept that, ..
to be chosen or not, ..
but i accept that, ...
and because i love you, ..
i accept to be in that, ..
and to be as a hostage..
the stars are in your eyes
the moon is in your lips
the sun is in your skin
it makes you glow...
just like an angel....
the angel in my heart
you keep it together when it starts fall apart.
cause your my angel..
my gaurdian angel...
your there through it all...
you catch me when i fall..
you never leave me behind
youre there waiting with me no matter the time...
There's an Angel within me who KNOWS what I need.
I can have what I ask for, if I only BELIEVE.
My Angel is with me where ever I go.
If there is DANGER ahead, my Angel will KNOW.
When I KNOW in my HEART, and can SEE with my mind,
I can have what I ask for. I'm a child of the DIVINE.
If I want something SPECIAL, I need only to THINK.
My Angel within me, creates, QUICK AS A WINK!
My Angel and I, are ONE of a kind.
When I want to SEE one, I can LOOK, with my MIND.
My fallen angel,
My blessing,
Your tragedy,
On your way to heaven,
I grabbed your wings,
And pulled you to me,
Seeped your warmth,
And left you cold,
My fallen angel,
Guide of beauty,
Fallen angel I'm sorry,
Your tragedies my blessing,
I can't let you go,
Heavens too far,
Fallen angel,
Stay where you fell.
Stay with me.
I was there when you were born,
everyone said that you looked like an angel.
For me you were an angel.
The nurse put you in my arms
and I was trembling..
I was afraid to hold you,
I was told that babies are fragile,
you only turn up to be fragile later on.
I watched you grow.
I was there when you said your first word,
when you took your first step,
when your first tooth appeared
and you smiled at me with a relief.
I knew you loved me..
I could see it in your eyes,
when you were looking at me
with all the innocence of the world.
I could feel it in your touch,
each time you held my hand
and hid behind me
when grownups were making fool of themselves
trying to make you smile.
Every afternoon,
after a tiring day,
when for everyone else
I had no time to spare,
I always had time for you,
my precious baby brother.
You drew a yellow circle,
with a few wavy lines
and you shouted with pride: Sun!
It was the prettiest sun I had ever seen.
At nights you liked bed time stories,
with mean dragons,
brave knights
and imprisoned princesses.
You said that when you grow up
you want to be a knight with a shiny panoply
or at least an astronaut.
Instead you became an angel
and you flew away one sunny afternoon..
Since then,
every time I feel sad,
I sense the warmth of my guardian angel's wings,
and I have no doubt that
they are your wings..
From the moment we met
Something felt right
You’ve been here through my problems
You have never once let me down
You have been my guardian angel
This I have to tell you
I feel as though you’re always near and watching over me
To take care of me when I needed it
Your light shines around you all day
When I need someone to lean on your always here
To be able to tell you something and have you understand
My lovely sweet guardian angel and friend
Having you as my guardian and friend
My life has come back together
Never have I had a best friend/guardian angel as you
So this is to let you now what I see you as
My guardian angel IS spazz
You will always be
Because I need you to watch over me
So please never leave me all together
When looking back I dimly see
The trails my feet have trod,
Some hand divine, it seems to me,
Has pulled the strings with God;
Some angel form has lifeward leaned
When hope for me was past;
Some love sublime has intervened
To save me at the last.
For look you! I was born a fool,
Damnation was my fate;
My lot to drivel and to drool,
Egregious and frutrate.
But in the deep of my despair,
When dark my doom was writ,
Some saving hand was always there
to pull me from the Pit.
A Guardian Angel - how absurd!
I scoff at Power Divine.
And yet . . . a someone spoke the word
That willed me from the swine.
And yet, despite my scorn of prayer,
My lack of love or friend,
I know a Presence will be there,
To save me at the end.
Empty and lost
in this nightmare,
Tears caress my cheeks,
crying for an angel's whisper
that will make me touch heaven.
I lie praying that i'll be saved,
Took away and freed from this pain,
Tears caress my cheeks,
Crying for an angel's whisper
that will make me touch heaven.
My praying was not in vain,
I'm now happy and at peace,
The tears that once caressed my cheeks have been dried away
by the angel's whisper,
That helped me touch heaven.
You are my angel-
My pretty angel.
Let me hold you tight,
Won't you love me tonight?
My angel,
My dear, sweet angel,
You make me feel so right.
My darling angel,
You are my destiny...
Let me be your fantasy.
Please show your heart to me.
My Angel, you mean so much to me....
I'd follow you across the sea.
Angel, please open your arms to me.
I'm hoping you will see,
Just what your love means to me.
My dearest angel,
Put desire in flight.
We'll soar like a kite,
For love is in sight.
My sweet angel,
Make me your lover.
We'll love each other....
For you are my angel,
And I'll love no other.
It was written in the stars
That she would be something special
She was an Angel
A musical entrepeneur
Off the past, present and the future
Her voice was real
There was no need to mimic
Her romantic musical lyrics
She was an Angel
People were always curious
About this musical genius
Many used to climb the hills
And stand still
Just to hear her making love
To the strings of her guitar
She belted out songs
Some in a whisper
While the crowd will chant away
Delighted to hear her play
She was an Angel
A profilic writer
An Angelic diva
A musical master
feeling the air with pure emotion
Music was her entire life's devotion
She was an Angel
Her words were magical
Always casting on the crowd a spell
Taking them momentarily
out of their troubled hell
Yes it was written in stars
That she would be something special
She was beautiful
She was wonderful
She was an Angel
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
I saw something white in the bushes
it was a bunch of angels
wings folded taking an
ambrosia break and
laughing gently over
the lies they hear most often
when they're passing over
they were saying that
apart from the old ones like
we must have lunch sometime and
the cheque's in the post and
I promise to take it out before.....
there's now I could do this with you
all day where's the remote
but then they got on to the
more serious ones like
we only ever wanted the best for you
so this is what we...
and their voices got quieter
so I crept away without their
looking my way
but I bet they knew I was
there listening and
I bet they knew
I'd tell you
Delivered out of raw continual pain,
smell of darkness, groans of those others
to whom he was chained--
unchained, and led
past the sleepers,
door after door silently opening--
out!
And along a long street's
majestic emptiness under the moon:
one hand on the angel's shoulder, one
feeling the air before him,
eyes open but fixed...
And not till he saw the angel had left him,
alone and free to resume
the ecstatic, dangerous, wearisome roads of
what he had still to do,
not till then did he recognize
this was no dream. More frightening
than arrest, than being chained to his warders:
he could hear his own footsteps suddenly.
Had the angel's feet
made any sound? He could not recall.
No one had missed him, no one was in pursuit.
He himself must be
the key, now, to the next door,
the next terrors of freedom and joy.
Sweet Angel in disguise
floated into sight one day.
Showed me how to live and die,
little peoples love and honest child thoughts,
understanding
life.
Whispering quietly to myself,
pretending that I knew.
How can I repay a
minds eye angel,
for eternity?
Go to sleep my angel and dream
Of heavenly places and heavenly faces
You shall be missed, my angel but rest in peace
In this world you could easily get hurt
Don't fret my angel you are safe in God's arms
He will take care of you
And will always be with you
Mortal dreams of riches, but my angel
You are rich for eternal life
So sleep now angel you are full of love and beauty
We will all be with you soon
Sweet dreams my angel
When you wake up you'll know that
Your dreams have come true
I saw wild domes and bowers
And smoking incense towers
And mad exotic flowers
In Illinois.
Where ragged ditches ran
Now springs of Heaven began
Celestial drink for man
In Illinois.
There stood beside the town
Beneath its incense-crown
An angel and a clown
In Illinois.
He was as Clowns are:
She was snow and star
With eyes that looked afar
In Illinois.
I asked, "How came this place
Of antique Asian grace
Amid our callow race
In Illinois?"
Said Clown and Angel fair:
"By laughter and by prayer,
By casting off all care
In Illinois."
LIFE’S Angel watched a happy child at play,
Wreathing the riches of the blushing May:
His eye was cloudless as the heavens above,
But there was pity in her look of love.
The flowers he gathered bloomed their brief bright hour,
Then rained their petals in a silent shower:
The boy looked up at her with strange surprise,
And sadder grew the pity in her eyes.
Angel, angel where did u go?
You know I can’t live without you
And that’s because I love u so
Why did this happen?
Why did it be?
All I wanted was to live happily ever after
Just you and me
The time has come
Where you want to say goodbye
But you told me that I was for you
And for your future, the perfect guy
Angel, angel of my dear heart
Please don’t let our love fall apart
The warmth of your flame
It keeps me alive
But I will take the blame
If it does not survive
It’s getting dimmer
Day by day
I think about you
And hope and pray
Angel, angel of my breaking heart
Please don’t let us fall apart
In times of good and bad
In times of pain
Please don’t throw away what we had
You know without you I’d go insane
Angel, angel can’t you see?
Keep fighting to hold on
Come back to me
Time is precious
It is passing fast
Give me another chance
For what happened in the past
I know you love me
I know it’s true
So don’t forget me
Angel, I love you
At midnight an angel was crossing the sky,
And quietly he sang;
The moon and the stars and the concourse of clouds
Paid heed to his heavenly song.
He sang of the bliss of the innocent souls
In heavenly gardens above;
Of almighty God he sang out, and his praise
Was pure and sincere.
He bore in his arms a young soul
To our valley of sorrow and tears;
The young soul remembered the heavenly song
So vivid and yet without words.
And long did it struggle on earth,
With wondrous desire imbued;
But none of the tedious songs of our earth
Could rival celestial song.
I dreamt a dream!  What can it mean?
And that I was a maiden Queen
Guarded by an Angel mild:
Witless woe was ne'er beguiled!
And I wept both night and day,
And he wiped my tears away;
And I wept both day and night,
And hid from him my heart's delight.
So he took his wings, and fled;
Then the morn blushed rosy red.
I dried my tears, and armed my fears
With ten-thousand shields and spears.
Soon my Angel came again;
I was armed, he came in vain;
For the time of youth was fled,
And grey hairs were on my head.
The Angel that presided o'er my birth
Said, 'Little creature, form'd of Joy and Mirth,
'Go love without the help of any Thing on Earth.'
1     When the last faint red of the day is dead,
2         And the dim, far heaven is lit
3             With the silvern cars
4             Of the orient stars,
5         And the winged winds whimper and flit;
6     Then I rise through the dome of my aerodrome,
7         Like a giant eagle in flight;
8             And I take my place
9             In the vengeful race
10       With the sinister fleets of night.
11   As I rise and rise in the cloudy skies,
12       No sound in the silence is heard,
13           Save the lonesome whirr
14           Of my engine's purr,
15       Like the wings of a monster bird.
16   And naught is seen save the vault, serene,
17       Of the vasty realms of night,
18           That vanish, aloof,
19           To eternity's roof,
20       As I mount in my ominous flight.
21   And I float and pause in the fleecy gauze,
22       Like a bird in a nest of down;
23           While 'neath me in deeps
24           Of blackness, sleeps
25       The far, vast London town.
26   But I am not here, like a silvern sphere,
27       To glory the deeps of space,
28           But a sentinel, I,
29           In this tower of the sky,
30       Scanning the dim deep's face.
31   For, sudden, afar, like a luminous star,
32       Or a golden horn of the moon,
33           Or a yellow leaf
34           Of the forest's grief,
35       When the autumn winds are atune;
36   There is borne on my sight, down the spaces of night,
37       By the engines of evilment sped,
38           That wonderful, rare,
39           Vast ship of the air,
40       Beautiful, ominous, dread.
41   One instant she floats, most magic of boats,
42       Illusive, implacable, there;
43           Throned angel of ill,
44           On her crystal-built hill,
45       O'er a people's defenceless despair.
46   Then sudden, I rise, like a bolt through the skies,
47       To the very dim roofs of the world;
48           Till down in the grey,
49           I see my grim prey,
50       Like a pallid gold leaf, uncurled.
51   And I hover and swing, until swiftly I spring,
52       And drop like a falling star;
53           And again and again,
54           My death-dealing rain,
55       Hurl to the deeps afar.
56   Then I hover and listen, till I see the far glisten
57       Of a flame-flash blanching the night;
58           And I know that my hate,
59           That has lain in wait,
60       Has won in the grim air-fight.
61   Then I curve and slant, while my engines pant,
62       And the wings of my great bird tame;
63           While the sinister Hun,
64           In his ill, undone,
65       Goes out in a blinding flame.
Morning, evening, noon and night,
``Praise God!; sang Theocrite.
Then to his poor trade he turned,
Whereby the daily meal was earned.
Hard he laboured, long and well;
O'er his work the boy's curls fell.
But ever, at each period,
He stopped and sang, ``Praise God!''
Then back again his curls he threw,
And cheerful turned to work anew.
Said Blaise, the listening monk, ``Well done;
``I doubt not thou art heard, my son:
``As well as if thy voice to-day
``Were praising God, the Pope's great way.
``This Easter Day, the Pope at Rome
``Praises God from Peter's dome.''
Said Theocrite, ``Would God that I
``Might praise him, that great way, and die!''
Night passed, day shone,
And Theocrite was gone.
With God a day endures alway,
A thousand years are but a day.
God said in heaven, ``Nor day nor night
``Now brings the voice of my delight.''
Then Gabriel, like a rainbow's birth,
Spread his wings and sank to earth;
Entered, in flesh, the empty cell,
Lived there, and played the craftsman well;
And morning, evening, noon and night,
Praised God in place of Theocrite.
And from a boy, to youth he grew:
The man put off the stripling's hue:
The man matured and fell away
Into the season of decay:
And ever o'er the trade he bent,
And ever lived on earth content.
(He did God's will; to him, all one
If on the earth or in the sun.)
God said, ``A praise is in mine ear;
``There is no doubt in it, no fear:
``So sing old worlds, and so
``New worlds that from my footstool go.
``Clearer loves sound other ways:
``I miss my little human praise.''
Then forth sprang Gabriel's wings, off fell
The flesh disguise, remained the cell.
'Twas Easter Day: he flew to Rome,
And paused above Saint Peter's dome.
In the tiring-room close by
The great outer gallery,
With his holy vestments dight,
Stood the new Pope, Theocrite:
And all his past career
Came back upon him clear,
Since when, a boy, he plied his trade,
Till on his life the sickness weighed;
And in his cell, when death drew near,
An angel in a dream brought cheer:
And rising from the sickness drear
He grew a priest, and now stood here.
To the East with praise he turned,
And on his sight the angel burned.
``I bore thee from thy craftsman's cell
``And set thee here; I did not well.
``Vainly I left my angel-sphere,
``Vain was thy dream of many a year.
``Thy voice's praise seemed weak; it dropped---
``Creation's chorus stopped!
``Go back and praise again
``The early way, while I remain.
``With that weak voice of our disdain,
``Take up creation's pausing strain.
``Back to the cell and poor employ:
``Resume the craftsman and the boy!''
Theocrite grew old at home;
A new Pope dwelt in Peter's dome.
One vanished as the other died:
They sought God side by side.
They clamour and fight, they doubt and despair, they know no end
to their wrangling.
Let your life come amongst them like a flame of light, my
child, unflickering and pure, and delight them into silence.
They are cruel in their greed and their envy, their words are like
hidden knives thirsting for blood.
Go and stand amidst their scowling hearts, my child, and let
your gentle eyes fall upon them like the forgiving peace of the
evening over the strife of the day.
Let them see your face, my child, and thus know the meaning
of all things; let them love you and thus love each other.
Come and take your seat in the bosom of the limitless, my
child. At sunrise open and raise your heart like a blossoming
flower, and at sunset bend your head and in silence complete the
worship of the day.
I dreamt a dream the other night
That an Angel appeared to me, clothed in white.
Oh! it was a beautiful sight,
Such as filled my heart with delight.
And in her hand she held a flaming brand,
Which she waved above her head most grand;
And on me she glared with love-beaming eyes,
Then she commanded me from my bed to arise.
And in a sweet voice she said, "You must follow me,
And in a short time you shall see
The destruction of all the public-houses in the city,
Which is, my friend, the God of Heaven's decree."
Then from my bed in fear I arose,
And quickly donned on my clothes;
And when that was done she said, " Follow me
Direct to the High Street, fearlessly."
So with the beautiful Angel away I did go,
And when we arrived at the High Street, Oh! what a show,
I suppose there were about five thousand men there,
All vowing vengeance against the publicans, I do declare.
Then the Angel cried with a solemn voice aloud
To that vast end Godly assembled crowd,
"Gentlemen belonging the fair City of Dundee,
Remember I have been sent here by God to warn ye.
"That by God's decree ye must take up arms and follow me
And wreck all the public-houses in this fair City,
Because God cannot countenance such dens of iniquity.
Therefore, friends of God, come, follow me.
"Because God has said there's no use preaching against strong drink,
Therefore, by taking up arms against it, God does think,
That is the only and the effectual cure
To banish it from the land, He is quite sure.
"Besides, it has been denounced in Dundee for fifty years
By the friends of Temperance, while oft they have shed tears.
Therefore, God thinks there's no use denouncing it any longer,
Because the more that's said against it seemingly it grows stronger."
And while the Angel was thus addressing the people,
The Devil seemed to be standing on the Townhouse Steeple,
Foaming at the mouth with rage, and seemingly much annoyed,
And kicking the Steeple because the public-houses wore going to be destroyed.
Then the Angel cried, " Satan, avaunt! begone!"
Then he vanished in the flame, to the amazement of everyone;
And waving aloft the flaming brand,
That she carried in her right hand
She cried, "Now, friends of the Temperance cause, follow me:
For remember if's God's high decree
To destroy all the public-houses in this fair City;
Therefore, friends of God, let's commence this war immediately."
Then from the High Street we all did retire,
As the Angel, sent by God, did desire;
And along the Perth Road we all did go,
While the Angel set fire to the public-houses along that row.
And when the Perth Road public-houses were fired, she cried, " Follow me,
And next I'll fire the Hawkhill public-houses instantly."
Then away we went with the Angel, without dread or woe,
And she fired the IEawkhill public-houses as onward we did go.
Then she cried, "Let's on to the Scouringburn, in God's name."
And away to the Scouringburn we went, with our hearts aflame,
As the destroying Angel did command.
And when there she fired the public-houses, which looked very grand.
And when the public-houses there were blazing like a kiln,
She cried, " Now, my friends, we'll march to the Bonnet Hill,
And we'll fire the dens of iniquity without dismay,
Therefore let's march on, my friends, without delay."
And when we arrived at the Bonnet Hill,
The Angel fired the public-houses, as she did well.
Then she cried, "We'll leave them now to their fate,
And march on to the Murraygate."
Then we marched on to the Murraygate,
And the Angel fired the public-houses there, a most deserving fate.
Then to the High Street we marched and fired them there,
Which was a most beautiful blaze, I do declare.
And on the High Street, old men and women were gathered there,
And as the flames ascended upwards, in amazement they did stare
When they saw the public-houses in a blaze,
But they clapped their hands with joy and to God gave praise.
Then the Angel cried, "Thank God, Christ's Kingdom's near at hand,
And there will soon be peace and plenty throughout the land,
And the ravages of the demon Drink no more will be seen."
But, alas, I started up in bed, and behold it was a dream!
Shall I move the flowers again?
Shall I put them further to the left
into the light?
Win that fix it, will that arrange the
thing?
Yellow sky.
Faint cricket in the dried-out bush.
As I approach, my footfall in the leaves
drowns out the cricket-chirping I was
coming close to hear
Yellow sky with black leaves rearranging it.
Wind rearranging the black leaves in it.
But anyway I am indoors, of course, and this is a pane, here,
and I have arranged the flowers for you
again. Have taken the dead cordless ones, the yellow bits past apogee,
the faded cloth, the pollen-free abandoned marriage-hymn
back out, leaving the few crisp blooms to swagger, winglets, limpid
debris
Shall I arrange these few remaining flowers?
Shall I rearrange these gossamer efficiencies?
Please don't touch me with your skin.
Please let the thing evaporate.
Please tell me clearly what it is.
The party is so loud downstairs, bristling with souvenirs.
It's a philosophy of life, of course,
drinks fluorescent, whips of syntax in the air
above the heads -- how small they seem from here,
the bobbing universal heads, stuffing the void with eloquence,
and also tiny merciless darts
of truth. It's pulled on tight, the air they breathe and rip.
It's like a prize the way it's stretched on tight
over the voices, keeping them intermingling, forcing the breaths to
marry, marry,
cunning little hermeneutic cupola,
dome of occasion in which the thoughts re-
group, the footprints stall and gnaw in tiny ruts,
the napkins wave, are waved , the honeycombing
thoughts are felt to dialogue, a form of self-
congratulation, no?, or is it suffering? I'm a bit
dizzy up here rearranging things,
they will come up here soon, and need a setting for their fears,
and loves, an architecture for their evolutionary
morphic needs -- what will they need if I don't make the place? --
what will they know to miss?, what cry out for, what feel the bitter
restless irritations
for? A bit dizzy from the altitude of everlastingness,
the tireless altitudes of the created place,
in which to make a life -- a liberty -- the hollow, fetishized, and starry
place,
a bit gossamer with dream, a vortex of evaporations,
oh little dream, invisible city, invisible hill
I make here on the upper floors for you --
down there, where you are entertained, where you are passing
time, there's glass and moss on air,
there's the feeling of being numerous, mouths submitting to air, lips
to protocol,
and dreams of sense, tongues, hinges, forceps clicking
in anticipation ofas if the moment, freeze-burned by accuracies--of
could be thawed open into life again
by gladnesses, by rectitude -- no, no -- by the sinewy efforts at
sincerity -- can't you feel it gliding round you,
mutating, yielding the effort-filled phrases of your talk to air,
compounding, stemming them, honeying-open the sheerest
innuendoes till
the rightness seems to root, in the air, in the compact indoor sky,
and the rest, all round, feels like desert, falls away,
and you have the sensation of muscular timeliness,and you feel the calligraphic in you reach out like a soul
into the midst of others, in conversation,
gloved by desire, into the tiny carnage
of opinionsSo dizzy. Life buzzing beneath me
though my feeling says the hive is gone, queen gone,
the continuum continuing beneath, busy, earnest, in con-
versation. Shall I prepare. Shall I put this further
to the left, shall I move the light, the point-of-view, the shades are
drawn, to cast a glow resembling disappearance, slightly red,
will that fix it, will that make clear the task, the trellised ongoingness
and all these tiny purposes, these parables, this marketplace
of tightening truths?
Oh knit me that am crumpled dust,
the heap is all dispersed. Knit me that am. Say therefore. Say
philosophy and mean by that the pane.
Let us look out again. The yellow sky.
With black leaves rearranging it
All this was written on the next day's list.
On which the busyness unfurled its cursive roots,
pale but effective,
and the long stem of the necessary, the sum of events,
built-up its tiniest cathedral...
(Or is it the sum of what takes place? )
If I lean down, to whisper, to them,
down into their gravitational field, there where they head busily on
into the woods, laying the gifts out one by one, onto the path,
hoping to be on the air,
hoping to please the children --
(and some gifts overwrapped and some not wrapped at all) -- if
I stir the wintered ground-leaves
up from the paths, nimbly, into a sheet of sun,
into an escape-route-width of sun, mildly gelatinous where wet, though mostly
crisp,
fluffing them up a bit, and up, as if to choke the singularity of sun
with this jubilation of manyness, all through and round these passers-by --
just leaves, nothing that can vaporize into a thought,
no, a burning bush's worth of spidery, up-ratcheting, tender-cling leaves,
oh if -- the list gripped hard by the left hand of one,
the busyness buried so deep into the puffed-up greenish mind of one,
the hurried mind hovering over its rankings,
the heart -- there at the core of the drafting leaves -- wet and warm at the
zero of
the bright mock-stairwaying-up of the posthumous leaves -- the heart,
formulating its alleyways of discovery,
fussing about the integrity of the whole,
the heart trying to make time and place seem small,
sliding its slim tears into the deep wallet of each new event
on the list
then checking it off -- oh the satisfaction -- each check a small kiss,
an echo of the previous one, off off it goes the dry high-ceilinged
obligation,
checked-off by the fingertips, by the small gust called done that swipes
the unfinishable's gold hem aside, revealing
what might have been, peeling away what should . . .
There are flowerpots at their feet.
There is fortune-telling in the air they breathe.
It filters-in with its flashlight-beam, its holy-water-tinted air,
down into the open eyes, the lampblack open mouth.
Oh listen to these words I'm spitting out for you.
My distance from you makes them louder.
Are we all waiting for the phone to ring?
Who should it be?  What fountain is expected to
thrash forth mysteries of morning joy?  What quail-like giant tail of
promises, pleiades, psalters, plane-trees,
what parapets petalling-forth the invisible
into the world of things,
turning the list into its spatial-form at last,
into its archival many-headed, many-legged colony . . .
Oh look at you.
What is it you hold back?  What piece of time is it the list
won't cover?  You down there, in the theater of
operations -- you, throat of the world -- so diacritical --
(are we all waiting for the phone to ring?) --
(what will you say? are you home? are you expected soon?) --
oh wanderer back from break, all your attention focused
-- as if the thinking were an oar, this ship the last of some
original fleet, the captains gone but some of us
who saw the plan drawn-out
still here -- who saw the thinking clot-up in the bodies of the greater men,
who saw them sit in silence while the voices in the other room
lit-up with passion, itchings, dreams of landings,
while the solitary ones,
heads in their hands, so still,
the idea barely forming
at the base of that stillness,
the idea like a homesickness starting just to fold and pleat and knot-itself
out of the manyness -- the plan -- before it's thought,
before it's a done deal or the name-you're-known-by --
the men of x, the outcomes of y -- before --
the mind still gripped hard by the hands
that would hold the skull even stiller if they could,
that nothing distract, that nothing but the possible be let to filter
through,
the possible and then the finely filamented hope, the filigree,
without the distractions of wonder --
oh tiny golden spore just filtering-in to touch the good idea,
which taking-form begins to twist,
coursing for bottom-footing, palpating for edge-hold, limit,
now finally about to
rise, about to go into the other room -- and yet
not having done so yet, not yet -- the
intake -- before the credo, before the plan --
right at the homesickness -- before this list you hold
in your exhausted hand. Oh put it down.
A PICTURE AT FANO.
I.
Dear and great Angel, wouldst thou only leave
That child, when thou hast done with him, for me!
Let me sit all the day here, that when eve
Shall find performed thy special ministry,
And time come for departure, thou, suspending
Thy flight, mayst see another child for tending,
Another still, to quiet and retrieve.
II.
Then I shall feel thee step one step, no more,
From where thou standest now, to where I gaze,
---And suddenly my head is covered o'er
With those wings, white above the child who prays
Now on that tomb---and I shall feel thee guarding
Me, out of all the world; for me, discarding
Yon heaven thy home, that waits and opes its door.
III.
I would not look up thither past thy head
Because the door opes, like that child, I know,
For I should have thy gracious face instead,
Thou bird of God! And wilt thou bend me low
Like him, and lay, like his, my hands together,
And lift them up to pray, and gently tether
Me, as thy lamb there, with thy garment's spread?
IV.
If this was ever granted, I would rest
My bead beneath thine, while thy healing hands
Close-covered both my eyes beside thy breast,
Pressing the brain, which too much thought expands,
Back to its proper size again, and smoothing
Distortion down till every nerve had soothing,
And all lay quiet, happy and suppressed.
V.
How soon all worldly wrong would be repaired!
I think how I should view the earth and skies
And sea, when once again my brow was bared
After thy healing, with such different eyes.
O world, as God has made it! All is beauty:
And knowing this, is love, and love is duty.
What further may be sought for or declared?
VI.
Guercino drew this angel I saw teach
(Alfred, dear friend!)---that little child to pray,
Holding the little hands up, each to each
Pressed gently,---with his own head turned away
Over the earth where so much lay before him
Of work to do, though heaven was opening o'er him,
And he was left at Fano by the beach.
VII.
We were at Fano, and three times we went
To sit and see him in his chapel there,
And drink his beauty to our soul's content
---My angel with me too: and since I care
For dear Guercino's fame (to which in power
And glory comes this picture for a dower,
Fraught with a pathos so magnificent)---
VIII.
And since he did not work thus earnestly
At all times, and has else endured some wrong---
I took one thought his picture struck from me,
And spread it out, translating it to song.
My love is here. Where are you, dear old friend?
How rolls the Wairoa at your world's far end?
This is Ancona, yonder is the sea.
Sooner or late--in earnest or in jest--
(But the stakes are no jest) Ithuriel's Hour
Will spring on us, for the first time, the test
Of our sole unbacked competence and power
Up to the limit of our years and dower
Of judgment--or beyond. But here we have
Prepared long since our garland or our grave.
For, at that hour, the sum of all our past,
Act, habit, thought, and passion, shall be cast
In one addition, be it more or less,
And as that reading runs so shall we do;
Meeting, astounded, victory at the last,
Or, first and last, our own unworthiness.
And none can change us though they die to save!
To ride upon the wings of an angel
Is something that would set most people's heart and soul aglow
But to ride upon the wings of an angel
We should live a good life in the world below.
Most people are sure they have a guardian angel
Watching over them from up in the sky
Because we have lived through so many sicknesses and injuries
There seems to be no other reason why.
When we have crossed that shining water
And our time on earth shall be no more
There we will meet our guardian angel
Waiting for us on the other shore.
Maybe then we will be a guardian angel
And watch over someone from up in the sky
Always ready to reach out the a help them
And never letting them know the reason why.
An angel was tired of heaven, as he lounged in the golden street;
His halo was tilted sideways, and his harp lay mute at his feet;
So the Master stooped in His pity, and gave him a pass to go,
For the space of a moon, to the earth-world, to mix with the men below.
He doffed his celestial garments, scarce waiting to lay them straight;
He bade good by to Peter, who stood by the golden gate;
The sexless singers of heaven chanted a fond farewell,
And the imps looked up as they pattered on the red-hot flags of hell.
Never was seen such an angel -- eyes of heavenly blue,
Features that shamed Apollo, hair of a golden hue;
The women simply adored him; his lips were like Cupid's bow;
But he never ventured to use them -- and so they voted him slow.
Till at last there came One Woman, a marvel of loveliness,
And she whispered to him: "Do you love me?" And he answered that woman, "Yes."
And she said: "Put your arms around me, and kiss me, and hold me -- so --"
But fiercely he drew back, saying: "This thing is wrong, and I know."
Then sweetly she mocked his scruples, and softly she him beguiled:
"You, who are verily man among men, speak with the tongue of a child.
We have outlived the old standards; we have burst, like an over-tight thong,
The ancient, outworn, Puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong."
Then the Master feared for His angel, and called him again to His side,
For oh, the woman was wondrous, and oh, the angel was tried!
And deep in his hell sang the Devil, and this was the strain of his song:
"The ancient, outworn, Puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong."
The first time we meet
in New York City
it will be snowing.
No one will stop
to take a picture
of us as we stand
inches apart and shake
hands on a busy street
corner.  Taxicabs
will continue to pass,
splattering dirty slush
onto our wool coats.
We will walk
in silence to a cafe
where we'll sit
for hours sipping
espresso, fingering sugar
packets.  The smoke
from your cigarette
will rise and hover
around your head
like mist in a grave-
yard covering
a tombstone at dawn,
the epitaph barely readable.
Just after midnight
you will lean forward,
your face-pale
and thin-emerges
from the haze, eyes
dark as skulls',
and slowly, unnoticed,
we will kiss.
We, unaccustomed to courage
exiles from delight
live coiled in shells of loneliness
until love leaves its high holy temple
and comes into our sight
to liberate us into life.
Love arrives
and in its train come ecstasies
old memories of pleasure
ancient histories of pain.
Yet if we are bold,
love strikes away the chains of fear
from our souls.
We are weaned from our timidity
In the flush of love's light
we dare be brave
And suddenly we see
that love costs all we are
and will ever be.
Yet it is only love
which sets us free.
You are my oldest angel.
Your name will go untold.
At first you were too young for this.
Now you are too old.
Just so you know I love you.
Your thoughts, your smile, your heart.
You've been with me through darker days,
but you loved me from the start.
It's strange to look you eye to eye
and see how much you've grown.
I wonder where we'll end this journey.
Will it be far that you will roam?
Even though you are much older
than a ''baby'' or a ''child''.
Don't go thinkin' you're all grown up.
The world out there is wild.
There's a white angel out there
Out there somewhere
It'll blow away the darkness
Let is bright light shine
There's a white angel out there
With gold encrested wings
A white halo of leaves
They only show certain people they're their angel
There's a white angel out there
One for each of us
Be they a friend to save you
Or a true being of Heaven
There's a white angel out there
Just let them find you please
They'll show you light
They'll save you from dark
There's a white angel out there
Just let them break through thier darkness
Let them gain those wings
And you'll see them waiting
There's a white angel out there
Just you wait and see
March 2006
(Dedicated to my Grandmother whom past away MAR.2003)
You are an Angel
Strong and smart
loving and sweet,
you are one of the
greatest people I ever
got to meet.
I’ll never forget you
your in my heart
and even though your
not with me
we’re not far apart.
You are an Angel
in everyone’s eyes
gentle and caring
for the good, you changed
everyone’s lives
You are an Angel
with a big heart and
a gentle smile.
When you’d do something
for someone you always went
that extra mile.
You are an Angel
always there to lend
a helping hand
you were always so loving
and would always understand
You are an Angel
strong and smart
loving and sweet
you are one of the greatest
people I ever
got to meet.
You Are My Angel
The Best Gift There Could Ever Be
Bringing Fresh Course To Life
You Truly Complete Me!
I got you, I think i was surely blessed upon
Though the wings you loved were gone
If you would still have had them
Our togetherness, How would it stem?
You Smile like the rising sun
You Cry like the rains
You Laugh like the cool air
Every Act of Yours is a Lovable Affair.
You carried my burden
And taught me they reduce when carried by two
Today when we both bid our adieus
I knew our lives would start anew.
You were my angel, need i say i really miss you?
But if you had stayed with me here any longer
Your friend's from Heaven would get eager
Cause they Would also be missing their 'ANGEL' and that's you.
(Written on November 11,2005)
PHYSICAL RESOLVES FOR ANGER:
Close your eyes,  Focus on breath
Ask, Am I right? , Affirm, I will not shout
Speak in lighter voice (Most  Impossible)
Take a bath, Listen to favorite music
Go for a long Walk or a Careful Drive
Clasp palms firmly or
Fold hands across chest
Be Aware of hands
Look above your head
Awareness means Anger is done away
Walk Left and Right, Walk in circles
Look at the mirror, Focus on your eyes
Smile a Bit, Laugh a Bit, Scribble something
Say, 'You are Bloody Punk, If you get Anger'
Say, ' I am Godlike, I won't get Anger'
Place finger on Mush Area Horizontally or Vertically,
It puts physical barrier on Shouting
Meditate, Practice Yoga, Exercise
Drink Cold Water, Say 'Cool Down'
Say 'Om Shanthi' or Amen
MENTAL RESOLVES FOR ANGER:
Think Anger is Animalistic, Anger is Fire, Anger is Health Hazard
Anger is Anti-Relation, Anger is weakness, Think End Result of Anger
Be willing to overcome Anger, Resolve to end Anger
Think, Should the Pot (Relationship)            be Broken?
FEAR, WORRIES, FRUSTRATION – ROOT CAUSE OF ANGER:
Fear of Loss is Anger's root cause
Physical or Emotional it may be
Take Five Slow Deep Breaths
Pray - 'God give me strength, this moment
Be with me and Lead me through this crisis'
Some Worries put You In Deep Frustration, Anger
Have faith in God, Faith can move Anger, if not Mountains
Believe God Leads You, Have Faith, Everything happens for a Reason
Worrying a bit helps, Worrying a lot spoils
Anger means, No Inner calm, No inner Peace
Hate, Fear, Worries, Frustration, Anger are compatriots in Hell
Love, Courage, Calmness, Peace, Joy are compatriots in Heaven
Hate and Love Can't co-exist as Fire and Water can't
Believing is half done winning all battles
Say, I choose Love and Joy, I don't get Anger
ANGER IN FAMILY:
After Angry Tussle is over, Reconcile your partner or children
'I Love You So much, That's why I get Anger towards you'
You are so dear; Can I get Anger towards, Bill Gates?
Tell something and cajole knowingly it is nonsense,
Kiss, come to terms saying let's go Hotel, Pay few 100 Bucks
Introspection and Analysis  help come over Anger
Accept when you get Anger, say, I am sorry
When in Good Mood, Tell your partner,
If I get Anger, I will put 25 Sit-ups clutching my Ears
Do Perform Sit-ups at least in isolation, closed doors, Nothing to be Ashamed
ANGER FOR GOOD PURPOSE:
Anger is not bad if it serves purpose
Sometimes you may have to Act with Anger (Acting)
Towards Your Employees, Sub ordinates, Children
You should know you act with Anger
Purposeful Anger is Reasonably Correct
TAIL PIECE ON ANGER:
If nothing works, keep a Mouthful of Water.
Advise others not to get Anger, At least you will follow a Bit,
Master should be at least a good student.
Pat yourself (Really) , Whenever you overcome Anger
Scribble something like this, Put a little Tom-Tom in Poem Hunter
A Research like this will help at least Author, Even if not Poetic.
(27-May-201, Chennai)
As Cloe came into the Room t'other Day,
I peevish began; Where so long cou'd You stay?
In your Life-time You never regarded your Hour:
You promis'd at Two; and (pray look Child) 'tis Four.
A Lady's Watch needs neither Figures nor Wheels:
'Tis enough, that 'tis loaded with Baubles and Seals.
A Temper so heedless no Mortal can bear—
Thus far I went on with a resolute Air.
Lord bless Me! said She; let a Body but speak:
Here's an ugly hard Rose-Bud fall'n into my Neck:
It has hurt Me, and vext Me to such a Degree—
See here; for You never believe Me; pray see,
On the left Side my Breast what a Mark it has made.
So saying, her Bosom She careless display'd.
That Seat of Delight I with Wonder survey'd;
And forgot ev'ry Word I design'd to have said.
you....!
issue ofmine
borne with love,
birthed with care;
i look at you now
the naughty gleam in your eye,
as your worrisome ministrations
wreck havoc with all order.
i look and marvel
at the miracle of your evolution..
from gurgles to mumbles
and thence to comprehensions;
the actions with anger
tempered by the pouts
which dissolve my resolution to be firm.
you, little bundle of joy and woe
all atwitter in a fit of
infantile anger..
i look at you, bewildered
marvelling, as a mother
at what God had me do!
inspired by my year half old daughter who has the strange power to drive me to tears and then be smiling thru them as she licks my face like a little loving poodle!
They are your own kids, cos,
They were conceived within you
They were nourished, nurtured,
fostered and brought up by you.
High time you realized that
these fiends are your own children
And still not too late to hold them by nose,
provided you have the desire, commitment ‘n courage.
They all are fiends within you
Controlling them, is your baby
No one else in the whole universe
Could or would do that for you.
When I am full of anger
I think in anger's terms
Part of my existing life
Is full of anger's germs
Nothing seems a perfect right
Most of things gone wrong
I get such vengeful feelings
When I carry anger along
When I think of forgiveness
I think in forgiveness' terms
My life is held in gentle hands
Softly in those twists and turns
Very few are perfect wrongs
So many things are right
Show me God forgiveness' face
So I can live in light
Sometimes we get angry
over the silliest of things,
but it is not anger,
but frustration
over something we cannot do.
If we could have done it,
there would have
been no anger there.
There is no easy solution
to get over it.
It is part of our nature
I am afraid to say.
The sad thing is
it will never go away.
We will always suffer the frustration
and the anger that goes with it.
9 May 2008
Anger and jealousy are siblings both self destructive in their own way
Of the damage they give rise to we hear and read of every day
In assaults and murder and every violent sort of crime
So many people because of them in prison serving time
Anger and jealousy to assertiveness different in every way
That only does seem a fair thing to say
Those who are assertive speak with a clear mind
To outbursts of anger they are not inclined
Jealousy and anger out of control
Blocks out the light from the windows of the soul
Non human friendly that cannot be denied
Worse flaws by far than even arrogance and pride
To violence and crimes against others they do lead
Anger and jealousy are siblings indeed
Anger is a form of fear
Anger is what I’m waiting to hear
Anger is deep down inside me
Anger drives me crazy
Anger is what turns me on
Anger is what turns me off
Anger is my enemy
Anger is my pal
Anger is gonna kill me
Anger is gonna save me
Anger might just help me
Find my true love.............
..........................Ma ybe?
Any time I don't understand something
Or feel unhappy with the way things are going,
Anger steps up, 'use me; let me help'
And I used to give Anger a lot of free rein,
Till I noticed Anger wasn't all that useful
And generally tended to only make things worse.
Now I try to rely more on 'Patience'
As Patience doesn't keep clicking that counter,
Adding up every resentment of the hour.
Besides, I can look straight into Patience's face
And not have one clue what Patience is thinking of.
You know, Anger could learn something from that.
A -All forms of vendetta
N -No stones left unturned
G -Gives infinite pressure...
E -Easy said than done! !
R -River of change focused!
My anger is angry.
Its pain.
Its frustration.
Its irritation.
My anger is angry.
My anger is confusion.
My anger is past, present and future.
My anger's disappointment.
My anger builds
up and explodes
like thunder on
a stormy day.
Its fiery red.
Its envy.
Its greed.
Its temptation.
My anger's TOO angry.
Won't you please help me stop?
I'm a blazing volcano
that's ready to pop.
Anger is red danger
But a familiar stranger
So It came as no surprise
At the times I have paid the price
More than the usual thrice
Before becoming very wise
The judge said
I should have been put in a cage
If one considers all the damage
I brought on with my rage
I knew
My anger was unreasonable
My anger was invincible
My anger was uncontrollable
But still very reversible
You see
In anger I always surrender
To the pressure I am under
In anger, I ungraciously lose
To the one I righteously accuse
In anger, I immoderately protest
Instead of letting things rest
Then trying responsibly to digest
And deal with issues best
So I say, So I say
Anger does not pay
Anger does not stay
Delay it from display
In time it will only go away
Now I know that
Anger does not pay
Anger does not stay
Calmness you should play
Before you begin to fall astray
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
Anger is a virus
That needs not even air
To propagate contagion
Whenever it is shared.
Anger can't be placed in quarantine
To contain its vicious spread
For anger feeds upon itself
And burns a flaming red.
Anger is all consuming
Anger does not desist
From destroying sensibilites
In that haze of its red mist.
Anger finds always its reasons to be,
And sometimes may use a more powerful voice
Than it really possesses; as birds fluff their feathers
In mock-deadly duels, when choosing a mate.
But anger too, has it's own place and time,
Though it is made weak, by continual use;
Like the hand always lingers, over the Queen
Feinting the win, in a tired game of chess.
If you would choose rightly, which to forget
And which to lose sleep, while it plots it's revenge,
The kind of anger that's best not ignored: the kind
Says no word; counting all your heartbeats.
Why must you torment me so?
Why do you want me to go?
Where am I so supposed to be?
With you all I want to do is scream
Why do you have to be so mean?
Well I don’t care anymore
I will hate you to the core
Can you handle my anger in my mind?
Or will it kill you as I watch you die
And I will never cry.
this anger burns deep within,
every minute the fire burns brighter,
time is ticking,
waiting to see who will be on the other side of this raging flame,
waiting to see what will happen to people who mess with me,
this fire is on raging so hot i cannot put it out,
only in your preasence does it fade away,
the lines in my heart break me,
the fires take me,
time can only tell what this great anger will cause me to do next,
even the best,
are no better than the rest,
you can wish for it to disapear all you like,
but nothing you try,
will even compare to the firery anger and deep dispair,
this anger inside me died today,
for i died with it,
it was controling me,
had me under a spell,
nows the time to,
with compell,
to release it into the pits of hell where it came from..
Anger lay by me all night long,
His breath was hot upon my brow,
He told me of my burning wrong,
All night he talked and would not go.
He stood by me all through the day,
Struck from my hand the book, the pen;
He said: ‘Hear first what I’ve to say,
And sing, if you’ve the heart to, then.’
And can I cast him from my couch?
And can I lock him from my room?
Ah no, his honest words are such
That he’s my true-lord, and my doom.
There is this angry place
she said
that's been inside me since
my earliest days.
And when I  need
I go there
for power
and resistance.
If ever
someone
hurts me
I let it out
to go free
and kill
or hurt back
and allow
it to take retribution.
It makes me feel strong
It makes me feel not so weak.
Only thing
is it is starting to get out of control.
After getting out
sometimes
it will not go back in
It remains out
and hurt
some people
it shouldn't.
That's the thing
about this Anger
thing
I'm afraid
most times now.
I am not in control.
It is.
Now it is Scary Anger
and I blank out at times
to wake up
shocked to see
what it has done.
I need help with it.
Anger is my enemy
There is a plenty of anger inside of me
I have to control it now but I don’t know how
My anger is part of my frustration
It fades my concentration in my ambition
It causes me plenty of trouble
It makes my life horrible
Anger form fears in my heart
It makes me broken apart
My body shakes with anger
It will not stop forever
I feel like I’m alone in this world
Nobody say to me any word
But the anger inside of me becomes my friend
It will never leave me till the end
My anger doesn’t leave me
It’s always there inside of me
Anger, my faithful friend, never relenting, embedded in the
pit of my soul, ready to strike when fate and foe deal
their dreaded blows. Embracing you I have, all of my
life, drawing courage and strength in the face of pain.
I’ve been shunned by some, chastised by many when you
reared your ugly little head, but if not for your defense I
would have surely drowned in self defeat. In lack of
self responsibilities when inflicting their pain, my
foes have said, (Anger managment is what she needs) .
I pushed you away my friend, accepting the guilt from
others when clinging to you in times of trouble, but
as I picked my beat and bloody self up one day I
realized it was not my guilt but theirs that I took that
pushed you away.
Many have said that my friend is bad, but I say that
my friend is a gift,  so I could stand with courage and defend.
For God told of the sorrows in this life and knew
you would sustain me till the end. I thank  you
my faithful Friend.
My angers still there,
its been building up inside,
do i step up or stand to the side,
which way should i turn?
left or right?
the air is getting colder,
as it turns from day to night,
i have no idea why you tried to ruin my life,
i thnak god,
i didnt get to be your wife,
why treat me so bad?
did you not know it was so wrong?
can't understand why,
i stayed with you so long!
my whole world shattered,
around my feet,
walking around in unbearable heat,
my heads mixed up,
trying to understand why,
you closed the door and said 'goodbye! '
how could you do that,
just stand there and break my heart,
i should have seen it coming,
you were messing me around,
with some worthless tart!
people can be so stupid
but think they are all that
when they're only fakes
who imitate celebrities
the complete perfectionists
the horrible hypocrits
i really dont like them
they have a forked tongue
they can lie 2 ur face
and talk crap behind ur back
i know most preps are this way
and most jocks 2
but i hate sterotypes
so i wont assume
i'm honest as i can be
and yes i've lied
just believe and be urself
and life wont be so bad
The anger that i feel seems to steal my only joy,
boy! i can't imagine another emotion that erupts into motion,
as quickly as eyes see a floppin' bee.
Anger is a traitor false like a frequent masturbator,
it hides between the lies that materialise between our lips,
if hips don't lie, than do eyes not cry?
Why I wonder do we anger ourselves in ways that prevent days from being ablazed with happy thoughts as preachers taught,
'the sinner will rot in a burning pot' so... is it anger or are we always in danger wether it is September or December?
Is it any wonder that we gather this useless treasure in banks and ignore the noisey tanks that run in Afghanistan or Iran.
Do we prefer to remain ablure of anger?
This emotion, the iron curtain that is certain to pain any person
that chooses to inherit it's possessions that of war, hunger and pestilence, that of scare, dishonor and sins.
So let anger not be amongst You for You will have no clue of how to unglue it's curse. It get's worse with every passing second,
minute and hour. Time takes no shower!
It is a constant power that blooms the flower and melts your butter, so let anger fly and send a taunt to it's reply, ' I, I will not die'
Anger builds up inside of me like a volcano ready to explode
The anger inside of me grows like cancer spreading fast and Destroying me
But that anger has to come out some how
Before it kills me and builds up inside of me
There are times that is not good for me to show my anger to myself And others because it is very destructive
Sometimes it is difficult for me to control my anger
anger is anger....
anger makes you scream
anger makes you hate
anger takes control
anger want let go
anger wants you to hurt
anger wants you to suffer
anger makes you mad
anger makes you cry
anger turns people against you
anger is anger...................
Anger is the Banyan seed
I secreted in the darkness of my heart
I thought I hid it well from everyone’s view
Until the day I woke up to find it fill
My heart mind and soul
Roots, branches, aerial roots to support
A thick trunk no reason could uproot
Anger was just a seed when I forgot
To forgive and hid in my heart!
Inexplainable is her mood
Undescribable is her mood
No smile, no frown
Never up and never down
She's merely a body taking up space
Sucking in air, never changing her face
Starring in plain dismay
Aloof
Whenever you look upon her face
Anger is what you think
She doesn't smile and she doesn't shout
She simply stares filled with doubt
Questions run through her mind
Am I happy or am I mad?
Anger is what she should feel
After all she's been through
Instead,
She's just here
Anger, a spark, within all of us.
There, anger is lurking, waiting to
ignite the dynamite, that will
cause an explosion of words,
and actions, that can not be taken back.
Anger, is the roadblock, to anything
and everything, worthwhile in life.
Anger, seemingly an involuntary reaction,
to rejection of thought or action.
Anger, an interpretation, of unacceptable behavior.
Anger, almost always followed by regret.
Anger, an emotion. who's children are,
anxiety, fear, frustration, animosity, passion,
outrage and a thousands of other, emotionally
affecting articulations.
Anger, the replacement of reason.
What is the enemy of anger? The
enemy of anger, is, patience, understanding
and love.
Anger, the emotion, the world would be
far better off, without.
© Joe Fazio
Anger in its time and place
May assume a kind of grace.
It must have some reason in it,
And not last beyond a minute.
If to further lengths it go,
It does into malice grow.
'Tis the difference that we see
'Twixt the serpent and the bee.
If the latter you provoke,
It inflicts a hasty stroke,
Puts you to some little pain,
But it never stings again.
Close in tufted bush or brake
Lurks the poison-swellëd snake
Nursing up his cherished wrath;
In the purlieux of his path,
In the cold, or in the warm,
Mean him good, or mean him harm,
Whensoever fate may bring you,
The vile snake will always sting you.
His anger is a hard summer storm,
Unpredictable and uncontrollable
Like the rain his anger falls upon countless victims.
Like the wind his anger lashes out upon the innocent
Like a summer storm his anger comes
And like a summer storm his anger goes.
It leaves behind destruction and kayos
Dismay and suffering.
His anger comes and it goes
And with all brings, It causes only pain.
It’s a source of revenge,
Master of destruction,
It brings separation,
Encourage discrimination,
The source of pain,
Brings slavery,
Yeah, mental slavery.
Emotion is the enemy of facts,
Feelings is the darkness of reality,
Emotions, feelings are the wrong way of decision,
Let Anger not be the source of decision making,
Focus on the truth, reality and facts.
ANGER
Anger,
is like,
having a  burning coal,
in his hands,
and burning himself,
it is a volcano,
destroys all the limbs,
it is an earthquake,
that shakes itself,
it is a bomb-blast,
that blasts its own body,
it is a bullet that kills himself,
drive away anger
Anger?
Don't languor
under the name of 'soft'
or 'sensitive.'
Just explode.
It's what you do best.
Curse and swear,
go spare,
put the dagger in
if you dare
(and you do) .
Don't spare the pain.
Do it again
and again
and AGAIN.
But not with me.......
This ill temper I have is making me mad
I blow up and I don’t know why
I wish for just a moment I could handle my anger right
I wish for just a moment I could love you right
I wish my attitude would just go away
I wish my anger would stay at bay
This outlook I have on life needs to change
This outlook I have you needs to say the same
I love you deep down inside
I wish you would see
That you’re the only princess for me
The anger I have deep in side
Comes out when I least expect it
This anger I have in me should just go away
This anger I have is an annoyance
This anger I have has messed my life up
This anger I have is stupid
Anger you have messed up my love for you
Anger you have messed up my life
Anger you have destroyed who I am inside and out
Anger you are the devil
Anger you are all that is bad
This anger I have in me has made me fight
A fight that was not worth it
Anger you made me hit the wrong person
Anger you made me do the wrong things
Anger you are the feeling that I would never miss
Anger you have caused me so much sorrow
Anger you have caused nothing but grief.
Anger just go away
Gavin Marshall 6/1/08
Corrupted vision under a swaddling blind
to things unable and things hard to find;
impatience is a virtue to its clogging kind
penetrating hearts of stone in boldness clime!
So much is painful in tumultous cover
where a depiction in eyes is hard to share;
all things but mellow of malicious iniquity
no wonder t’is world has its fullness agony.
A shaky change have its all-time poll
where swaggarts and mighty wolves enbrawl;
vultures feast its long time hunger’s fare
even those scattered bones in desert fire.
Or you may hear a shady battlecry from afar
Where brawling muscles smite a bloody howl;
No tempest wave can stop a sweltering blow
Only the noblest shadow hide a warrior show!
The zenith of fame serve a bounty swinger;
Killed a few but pain has its beehive’s anger
No love is felt nor a tortous whims appear,
hideous heart conquers an unwitting snare.
I am bottled anger.
Violence burns within me;
A potent drug, rage.
With it, I could topple
The mountain's height:
How much more could I destroy you,
Pitiful worm.
I am danger incarnate:
Death personified.
Be thankful I am sane,
And controlled;
-Bottled anger-
If I were not,
You would cease to be.
Anger is swelling up inside,
Nothing to do but let it ride,
Go on scream, kick and shout,
Everyone is looking let it all out,
Rampage about all day long and dont stop till its all gone!
anger is not love
anger is driking
anger is killing someone
anger one thing never do
love, anger love not anger
anger is ramming you head throug a glass door
when your  are man you do stupid things
stupid things that are stupid
when mad you dont feel nuthing
anger we all have
anger you cant change
when mad stays
stay away from everyone
anger can kill because you do stupid things
when mad sleep
anger just anger
ANGER
Shut up, go cry
I want you to fucking die
You cheat
You lied
F**k your life
We're through
I no longer give a s**t about you
Your pain
Is my pleasure
Your my worthless treasure
Your fake
You'll break
Now leave me
Never show your face again.
Anger threatens to steal me away
My soul burns with fire, my sanity strays
My heart beats faster, one single beat
My face reddens sudden from the intense heat
Anger came quickly
As quickly as can be
My thoughts think the worst just wanting to be free
It came so fast I can hardly remember
While my heart beats with rage and a sole burning ember
Anger fell upon me and tore me apart
My brain fries from the burn, from the hurt, from the start
I begin to wonder how much I can endure
As I ball up my hands struggling to gain composure
The storm swells up inside me and wears down everything like erosion
I know soon it will blow
Like a time bomb explosion
A giant volcano, about to blow up
The lava spilling over, ready to erupt
Anger reaches over to a boiling temperature
These feelings all too childish, irresponsible, immature
Anger threatens to take me away, my eyes now to blind
Everything seems red to me, the tint not all too kind
Anger spills out over, through every open space
Giving another memory, that never I can erase
Allowing
Nerves to
Get frayed
Escorting
Rage
Don't make a scene, Refrain
Angry words march through the brain
Mouth clamped shut as not to utter
Quivering body, quaking shutter
Rushing sound in the ears
Eyes blinded, wet hot tears
Furious fists, clench and flex
Out of control, mind forms the text
Pent up, overflowing, ready to implode
Rapid fire has them spent, now words reload
Body turns to walk away
Conscious of the futility to stay
The breath sucked in now released
Personal Power, tenfold increased
Anger tries to take its toll
Beaten by control
Your anger
Bursts like a thunderstorm,
And torrential rain,
And flashes like lightening.
And when its spent
And an uncanny calm descends.
I feel like an uprooted tree.
Sharp words
Can hurt,
Deeper than a wound
By a sword.
It takes time
Before a scab forms,
And you move on.
Don't fight it
Don't use it
With your thoughts
Don't amuse it
Don't feed it
You don't need it
Don't keep it
To the dark wells of your mind
You must lead it
Drown it
Supress it
Don't let it
Come up with
Mud and water
Don't let it closer.
You can't calm it
You can't teach it
Don't warm it
Burn it
When it hurts you
Hurt it
Reach it
But don't hold it
Try to fold it
Into shapes
Then throw it
In a jar
And brake it
Swallow the shreds
To taste it
Tastes better with your blood?
Waste it
Spit it out
And keep it out
Watch it
But don't touch it.
You can't bear it
You can't take it
You can't make it
Weaker.
It speaks for itself, speaker
It eats for itself, eater
Catcher and coveter
Not seeker.
anger is anger
anger makes you scream
anger makes you hate
anger takes control
anger want let go
anger wants you to hurt
anger wants you to sufer
anger makes you mad
anger makes you cry
anger turns people against you
anger is anger
Epictetus the stoic philosopher said
that anyone who angers you becomes your master
by disturbing you;
Well, that's me -
full of righteous and unrighteous anger;
on the other hand,
God gets pretty hot in the O.T. -
Are there different rules?
After all, we both know we're right.
And don't ask me what 'religion' I am, OK?
Or I could get really angry...
anger is a force that can never die
anger is a force that lies deep within us
anger is the force that can change a man life
anger is the force that can create a kill
anger is the force that can ruin your life
anger is the thing we all fear
anger is the force that will kill us all
anger is the force that we shall take to are grave
Anger spreads poison in mind
Destruction it leaves behind.
It snatches all our senses
And increases all our expenses.
Bloody sword in its hands it keeps
And climbs up on thoughts bulky heaps.
It becomes blind in its darkness
Hatred it can only express.
It cuts and bites with nails and teeth
Thorns ae spread  in flowery heath.
It casts eclipse to sun and moon
But when is punctured its baloon
Often it sits with head on knees
And is heard saying ' please, please, please.'
Anger is a hydra -headed demon
A demon beating its  furious wings
a volcano belching out  fiery lava
a gloomy sky cracking thunders
a CSTC bus rushing on a smoky road
in the wintry evening
Anger is emptiness or losing
A girl being robbed of her angelic infancy
a nonagenarian mother denied her home
a lost child crying for its parents in the crowded local train
a child that loses her doll
Anger is the foamy sea writhing with pain
The sea that rolls its waves to knock the barge
Or the sapless champak losing its  petals
Or a hilly town without the snowfall
Or on a fuzzy vista a lonely bird calls
Or when I cannot write a single line
Anger comes to me
I become really angry
How is anger escaped?
It stays deep within me.
I think about what is lost,
and the anger rises inside of me.
Every where I look,
I see what should be mine.
Envy turns to anger,
I think to myself 'who are these people? ,
they do not deserve such a thing I have lost'
I think about what is lost,
and the anger rises inside of me.
It rises to such a degree,
that anger turns to tears.
Anger threatens
and bursts throught fast.
The swelling breast
stretches the sinews
of all being.
With strife the builds
of some betrayel clings
to mind, a length
of memory springs
bringing into combat
all focuses of strength.
Restrained the sighing heart
descends the peak,
resting uneasily
and declaring weak.
Sally Plumb
Sally Plumb
Here I am again
having the same old pain
That same old Stupid Thing
Came along and started to Sting
Inside my room
I drowned in air of gloom
lost my self to the floor
Anger is kicking at my heart's door
The urge to break anything
whatever near me I'll start to swing
Hoping that I can Drive away
Whatever makes sadness song  play
How many time did I cry? ?
and hoped I could run away and fly? ?
Every time I spread my wings
That Horrible voice starts to sing
And it starts to pull me in
But I don't want to give in
Im Sick of Living like this
Taking Life the way it is
I don't want to lose my self anymore
I have the strength to fight im sure
I'll Hold my fists Tight
I will start the Fight
and I will Ride the Chances Flight
Anger irks me!
I abhor persons
who show tantrums!
Not that I don't get angry.
I too loose temper
at timid lambs
those who bend their heads
to butcher's knife,
without a fight! !
it boils within
slowly poisoning  all that it touches
corrupting all that is within
it has now reached a new level
a level I never thought existed
for it has boiled over everything
everything I have
everything I’ve worked to keep
for I am now totally corrupted
drowning in poison
the poison of my life
the poison you all help create
the poison that has been growing within me
anger
anger is that poison
anger is the poison within
the thing that is eating me alive
eating me from within
corrupting every cell of me
turning me in to a corruption
for now I am just a corruption
corruption...
Anger building up
So close to exploding
I am so close to the edge
No second thoughts before knowing
My body shakes with anger
The line is so close
Slowly starting to overstep that line
My eyes start to tear up
Softly falling down my cheeks
Anger invades me
Precisely and carefully taking over
Anger...Anger...Anger
The human passion that can help or destroy me
I feel like I'm alone in this small world
But the anger becomes my friend
My body crumbles to the ground
I wake up screaming
My mother comes to rock me to sleep.
My house, is burning under fire?
I’m gathering proof!
To accuse my neighbor
I scuffle I ruffle I shuffle the things!
Still I can’t get hold of my anger!
If someone could tell me
What should I do with my anger?
Those who saved the lives
The real heroes
Would they come back?
To tell the tale…
To tell what should we do?
To gather the proof or retaliate?
What should I do with my anger?
My house, my nation is burning under fire!
Anger
I keep it all inside
I keep it close to my side
For If I lose it all
Heaven knows I'll die
I let it go
I breathe it in
It keeps coming back
For it is my sin
It's burned in me
It haunts me day & night
Carved into my core
It is my only sight
It's the only thing I know
It's all that is me
It's the only emotion I show
I wish I could be free
Anger
Anger is the devil inside our locked up souls,
Anger is the spirit in which I with hold,
Angers the such demond who never is told,
Anger is which never ever grows old.
Anger is a lie when someone's in trouble,
Anger is always there on the double,
That's what anger is!
you make my so angry
i feel like you hate me
i want you to die
because you always make me cry
as i talk to you my anger begins to grow
and my love for you begins to slow
i hate when you ignore me
becasue thats when i get really angry
i hate when you act that way
i get mad at you every day
i dont know why i love you
sometimes i just wish i would say that we're threw
i hate you more than anything
take all your stuff especially this stupid ring
i dont want to deal with this anymore
why dont you just get out of my house walk through that door
A spark, a flame, a fireball,
Anger, borne of dry desire
Hurts and harms
Hearts and homes
Burns and breeds destruction
Of emotions, relations and creations.
When untamed, a wild weapon,
When tamed, a friendly flame
That fuels the vision
To fight for the right.
(22.06.2009)
Searing reason and rationale,
With the seething rage of rash,
Like the red blaze in wild jungle,
Anger, in its impulsive brash,
Melts all hope’s and dreams to ash;
deep, dark ocean
womb vortex of secrets
there lies a black pearl
reflecting ominously
the pure ivory
of its parent oyster
there in reign
I lie too
let me lie
disturb not my watery repose
for if i rise
i shall swallow you whole.
'ANGER IS WHEN YOU FEEL LIKE YOU WANT O PUNCH SOMEONE IN THE FACE
ANGER IS WHEN YOU TURN ALL RED
ANGER IS WHEN ALL SEEMS IS GOING WRONG
ANGER IS WHAT I FEEL WHEN I'M NEAR YOU'
Anger is bubbling away at me.
Burning a whole in my heart.
Making me burn with rage.
I have good reason to be angry.
I only wish
I could make them pay.
Put them through
What they did to me.
Anger is destroying me.
For Im hell bent on revenge..
I would love to dish out.
My own justice.
But I cant.
Anger Buabbles away.
Like a swishing sound
Of the waves.
Like a brook babbles
Anger takes ahold.
Anger is bubbling away at me.
Burning a whole in my heart.
Making me burn with rage.
I have good reason to be angry.
I only wish
I could make them pay.
Put them through
What they did to me.
Anger is destroying me.
For Im hell bent on revenge..
I would love to dish out.
My own justice.
But I cant.
Anger Buabbles away.
Like a swishing sound
Of the waves.
Like a brook babbles
Anger takes ahold.
Anger, a spark, within all of us.
There, anger is lurking, waiting to
ignite the dynamite, that will
cause an explosion of words,
and actions, that can not be taken back.
Anger, is the roadblock, to anything
and everything, worthwhile in life.
Anger, seemingly an involuntary reaction,
to rejection of thought or action.
Anger, an interpretation, of unacceptable behavior.
Anger, almost always followed by regret.
Anger, an emotion. who's children are,
anxiety, fear, frustration, animosity, passion,
outrage and a thousands of other, emotionally
affecting articulations.
Anger, the replacement of reason.
What is the enemy of anger? The
enemy of anger, is, patience, understanding
and love.
Anger, the emotion, the world would be
far better off, without.
© Joe Fazio
Why do I let you get to me?
I don't understand what you say -
One minute you're glad
The next one you're mad
I feel like I'm treading thin ice;
You constantly throw me off balance,
I hold my affection in check -
And then in a minute
You smile, and you win it
I feel like I'm losing my mind;
Why do you make me so angry?
Why do I feel so uptight?
I so want to please you
Instead I just tease you
And then we end up in a fight;
So why don't we just change the game plan,
Agree to be lovers instead -
And when there's an issue
We'll just grab the tissue
And make anger so sweetly in bed!
For my special friend - 'THANK YOU'
I'm not even going to say a word.
My mind compels me to speak, but for what?
So I can angrily express something absurd?
I can deal with it on my own instead of getting my throat cut.
I'm not even going to say a word.
Many thoughts of what to say spark here and there
Maybe if I try telling someone I can be heard.
If I don't react some way I won't get anywhere.
I'm not even going to say a word.
Yes, I make mistakes and I will own them
And time after time I'd correct them if I could
Because I know anger does not make them stem.
So now I'm saying this
For the simple fact for myself
All I need is to relax and rest
So I don't hurt myself or someone else.
1993
eating away at me
eating away at all I’ve worked to keep in control
letting lose all I’ve kept quiet
freeing everything I kept bottled up all these years
freeing the beast from within
eating away
eating away at all has been hidden through time
letting lose all that has been locked away
freeing everything that is kept within
calling the beast that lays within
Today I was angry with my friend
And I decided everything came to an end
I was irate for no reason
I acted as if my choice was treason
He sat with me like everyday
But today we did not talk or play
I avoided him as much as I could
Because I was angry with him, my friend
He tried to solve things out
By having a little spout
I turned my face away
Because I was angry with him, my friend
All his tries were in vain
He was true but I took it feign
Whatever so, I shunned him
Because I was angry with him, my friend
A friend or foe, now I thought
It baffled my mind, a doubt
But I bored him, ignored him
Because I was angry with him, my friend
What if I heard him through out?
Wouldn’t our fury be hindered?
Then we would still be friends
I should listen to him, my friend
He said words of fret and regret
He said of defense and confusion
He was a sad, mad lad
I forgave him all at once
He was my friend after all!
(WRITTEN FOR AND ABOUT MADDY....FOR A REASON I KEEP TO MYSELF)
OCTOBER 24,2008
Be slow to anger
And  much quicker to love.
God didn't make mankind
To hate, hurt and our neighbors begrudge.
He gave each of us the holiest of gifts
Something we all posses.
And in our hearts, is where God’s love does its best.
So when you feel your anger building up inside
Go and give it to God, let in Him there reside.
His love is sufficient for all you see
He lives inside of you and me.
To bring mankind hope, joy and love
He gives it freely, from His Father God above.
It will smoother out any of anger's wrath
He will beat it up with the Holiest of bats!
He will beat it down, deep into the ground
So far, that your anger my friend
Will never again, ever be found.
As i pase through the unrelaxing motion of hate.. I feel the blood in my body rising like a flood, The tears swelling down my face like unstoppable rain, The anger building up like a tornado and the Blood tricklings from my hands is the motion of an unsovled murder i commited.. i try to study these flash backs with an open steady mind, but then the pain is to deep to uncover the angry pictures i had in my mind.. It felt like i was going to blackout and lose my mind! then the aurguement flares up like a huge flame of fire, then i start to feel like an animal in the jungle looking for it's prey, then i instally attacked my deepest feeling and went out of my mind with an unbearble thrash to my life that i could'nt dare control.. closed my eyes to think deep within the mind and when i woke up i never fulfilled my unsolved nightmare?
When the clouds of anger
descend upon our mind
things are said in haste
which can hurt deeper
that the thrust of any sword
and will haunt us forever.
No amount of sorry
will ever take them back,
they will just live there
among our memories to haunt us
when things start bothering us again.
When toxic and volatile emotions
Are causing confusion and commotion,
Feelings are hijacked, hot thoughts race,
Mind gets enveloped in a rage.
As a consequence, visibility comes down,
It’s wise to shift gears and slow down.
Switch on the wipers
And clear the fog on the mind’s mirror.
Lest you forever live to regret
And wonder how I met with an accident.
Take few deep breaths, and count to ten,
As anger clouds the perception.
Your ability to discern goes haywire
So whatever you say backfires.
First deal with your inner pollution,
To stop firing deadly ammunition.
Remove yourself from the object of your ire
Lest you shoot arrows of fire
And give in to your primitive instinct,
Do something that your mood uplifts.
When the fog finally lifts
You’ll realise, perception does shift.
Then you’ll be glad
Things didn’t get out of hand.
Anger is our worst enemy
Causes havoc in our life and body chemistry.
Anger bestowed upon self
Is weight upon soul
If you cannot walk with rocks tied onto your feet
Why then would you put so much weight onto your soul
It hurts inside, and you know it
It burns inside, and you feel it
But you not listening to your reasoning
Nor paying attention to your past
Let go, would be easy
But you hold on, like its priceless
If there is anyone loosing
That person would be you
Common, enjoy the freedom
And see the people smiling
If the eye, a window to the soul
Then anger,  a veil over the eyes
Get those rocks off your feet
Lift up those veil off your eyes
Let your true self reveal
The beauty you hold inside
I read this quote
“Depression is anger without enthusiasm.”
I don’t believe that for a second,
I think depression is loneliness,
Feeling so lonely inside
Even if the world surrounds you
And knowing you cant blame anyone but yourself
But that’s just me.
And even worse
When the people you’d think know you best,
Don’t even notice.
Depression to me is
An overwhelming feeling
of defeat
Feeling that somehow,
In a game, you verses life
You lose
And there is no
Double or nothing
Or a such thing as re-do’s
Some of us accept it
And try other strategies
Others are left
Only to dwell
On what tactics they could have changed.
Whatever You do, Whatever You say,
Even if Your angry all day,
Even if You want quiet time alone,
Or possibly time away from home,
Don't Let the Sun go down on Your anger! ! !
Don't Let anger take hold of You,
That You don't know what You do!
Pray! Right away! Jesus is waiting to hear! !
Tell Him all about it! No Reason to fear!
Than all Your anger will disappear! ! !
Ask Jesus for Forgiveness Immediately! ! !
For the anger that You displayed
To No Longer have anger in Your Heart
So, It won't become a part of You, Everyday! ! !
When Jesus was Upon the Cross! ! !
He said 'Father Forgive Them!
For they do Not no what they do! '
Always Love One another! Forgive All Others!
Just Like Our Father Forgave Me and You! !
Follow Jesus Steps! It's God's Request! ! !
Patricia Grace Nicholson
Anger for injustice
Anger for violence
Beside us
Inside us
Kae manungsa golek upa angkara
Sesingidan mawuni
Nggawa bandha donya
Mbuwang rasa agama
Nyingkiri sesanti ati
Tan wedi dosa
Tan eling bakal mati
Anger for fighting
Against those criminals
Anger for defending
Those beloved creatures
Fathers anger you
But you love them
Fathers hurt you on the inside
But you love them
Fathers get drunk
But you love them
Fathers are always out with the ‘boys’
But you love them
My father is all ways there for me on one thing though
Wether angry, painful, drunk, or even out with the boys.
He is always there me when I need him the most.
She sat looking at me,
Not listening to a word.
Every time we talked, she
Said my opinion was absurd—
You should have seen my face;
The anger I showed was a disgrace.
For years, I have lived with such anger,
Gnawing anger, the kind that lingers
Like roadkill. To be sure, I am not stranger
To rage. Its long bony fingers
Have touched my heart many times,
Urging me to commit heinous crimes.
But to blame anyone for my rage is unjust.
No one is responsible for my fury,
Though I may think so, my eyesight is simply blurry
Anger is seeking a new slave;
As for me, I’d rather be brave,
Before anger puts me deep down in a grave.
One must find the power to harness any moments of
anger and remember that anger is the roadblock
to all that is worthwhile and meaningful in life.
© Joe Fazio
Incisions marked with skin of silk,
I am vulnerable,
true to flesh and bone,
I am human,
capable of making the light dissapear within my fingertips.
I love and hate,
as such reactions towards the darkness I look on knowing that I
just won't make it...
Cracked up smiles and blurry faces try to escape the side of your,
sweet prescence,
thinking that a girl so ignorant such as she could sustain her
anger much longer.
She must be human for she feels what she's been taught.
Self pity is what she wants,
so her selfishness she will get,
even if her veins burn with envy,
or tower over with regret.
You've tried so hard to stay so strong
but obviously not enough,
You know you can make it through to him
so act like you're tough.
These burned bridges are slowly finishing it's trail,
and silence will be joined at the end,
until then she'll stay a ruined creation of the world,
she'll live or make ammend.
There he was positioned in front of the
reflection and through the eyes he senses
the hint of anger.
As he stares he yells,
hands clenched and his voice booming
through the walls of his room.
He yells at his stupidity and his insanity,
of his depression restraining him whole,
he yells at the reflection that's in his way
of what he really was.
Every word he's yelled he's inflicted
on his kids,
every dropp of anger led from abuse he's installed
upon marks of misery on his own flesh and blood.
He points a finger at this madman that stands before him
pointing back,
and tells him that he's nothing,
that his anger is overpowering everything that
he use to be,
that with all the people he should blame
for his unhappiness it should be him
His eyes tell a story of a lonely little
boy inside his depressing heart,
now a grown man with kids of his own and still
he yells in fright.
This battle on his own is slowly wearing down,
because inside he's losing what he had,
that even his daughter at sixteen can't deal with his
prescence being around her because he's so sad.
So he looks with the anger through his eyes he's dead,
but inside he's still that little kid,
so when he burns all his bridges down,
he's gonna be by himself instead.
Touchy subject but I wrote it because of my father.
Thank you for reading.
Build me up
Tear me down
Say you love me
Think I cheat on you... F*** NO! ! !
I wanted to marry you
I saw something in you
I still do
I love you
Truly I still do
But I hope this guy was worth it
Now I'm pissed
Honestly if killing wern't illegal
WTF! ! !
One time you want to run away
To go and never look back
You feel that you hate people
And you hate yourself
You didn't make any mistake
But you want to punish yourself
To broke every thing that make you happy
And you want to be in the cage of sadness forever
You think all these things when you are angry
Your brain tell you that you are wrong but your heart want to explose...
But after few time you'll forget
And you'll be stronger than you were
And finally you realize that you learnt many things and your belief in God has increased
Which give you the power to fly...to reach be on the sky
And you'll know that everywhere you go God will protect you
Just trust...
A twisted fear of my own emotions, my tortured temper raises,
Piercing screams, contorted thoughts, haunted by angered faces.
They race around my confused mind, and strangle all that’s sane,
They take the anger to my hand and force me to inflict pain.
My anger feeds on my tears and when its full it is ready,
Racing through my pounding veins, taking over my body.
The screams are getting louder, my veins are pumping hard,
My anger is taking over, it leaves me feeling scared.
I take the blade to my sweating skin and slowly begin to cut,
Not deep enough to reach my veins, but deep enough to hurt.
I can feel the anger flowing, trickling down my arm,
Slowly cutting into my skin, I’m beginning to feel calm.
As my anger lessens, my head begins to ache,
This fully active anger is more than I can take.
My arms display my minds illness, and still no one can see,
What my haunted, twisted mind is forever doing to me.
Once the blood dries on my arms, my anger lays to rest,
Soaking up all my tears to once again put me to the test.
My mind is now hollow and empty, all has gone away,
Though my anger is no longer here, my thoughts are still astray.
Now I’m left with nothing, I feel so numb and alone,
Not having any thoughts at all, I lay here on my own.
Its going to come back and get me, I just don’t know when,
Its going to come and take over my mind and my arms again.
The anger is part of who I am and with me it wants to stay.
No one can make me better, no one can take it away,
It wont let you take it from me, it will hide from you, you’ll see,
Then when you think that I’m ok, it will come back for me.
Don’t try to understand me, I don’t expect you to,
I just want you to help me, be there when I need you,
Forgive me when I cannot smile, sit with me when I can’t speak,
Hold out your hand to me when I am feeling weak.
I understand if you cant do this, but please don’t then tell me its ok,
Because my anger is getting stronger and will get me for good one day.
Great buildings before her have toppled like dominos
She made them look as fragile as a castle of sand
Built on the beach by children in the morning
And washed out to sea when the tide floods the strand.
Anything humans do build cannot withstand her anger
The strongest of structures from their foundations she shake
Compared to her we are just tiny insects
There is nothing we can build that she cannot break.
We who are arrogant do not respect her
Though in her bosom we are destined to lay
There is no greater force than Mother Nature
On life and death she has the final say.
There is some price to pay for our pollutants
Our polluting of oceans, waterways and land
Little we seem to know of Mother Nature
And little of her ways we do understand.
On ourselves we invite the anger of Nature
She can shake to rubble our mightiest towers
Yet she can be gentle the one we live off of
And we see her great beauty in her blossoms and flowers.
Not from this anger, anticlimax after
Refusal struck her loin and the lame flower
Bent like a beast to lap the singular floods
In a land strapped by hunger
Shall she receive a bellyful of weeds
And bear those tendril hands I touch across
The agonized, two seas.
Behind my head a square of sky sags over
The circular smile tossed from lover to lover
And the golden ball spins out of the skies;
Not from this anger after
Refusal struck like a bell under water
Shall her smile breed that mouth, behind the mirror,
That burns along my eyes.
There is plenty of anger inside of me
It has to stop
Why is there so much anger inside of me?
My anger is part of my frustration
I have to control it now
My anger causes me plenty of trouble
There is plenty of anger inside of me
And what is anger do I know?
Anger is a strong feeling of displasure
It is a grief that I have inside of me
How can I control it?
What triggers my anger?
Can I recognize it?
THE lanky hank of a she in the inn over there
Nearly killed me for asking the loan of a glass of beer:
May the devil grip the whey-faced slut by the hair,
And beat bad manners out of her skin for a year.
That parboiled imp, with the hardest jaw you will see
On virtue’s path, and a voice that would rasp the dead,
Came roaring and raging the minute she looked on me,
And threw me out of the house on the back of my head!
If I asked her master he’d give me a cask a day;
But she, with the beer at hand, not a gill would arrange!
May she marry a ghost and bear him a kitten, and may
The High King of Glory permit her to get the mange.
Remember Man that Anger is futile!
Restrain your temper bad when ‘fumes’ arise;
Apologize if guilty, in high style,
And write your Anger off or play it nice.
Mere counting helps to dissipate Anger;
But slamming doors and raving mad aren’t right;
Poetry puts the ‘plane’ into hanger!
When Anger comes, Man loses his insight.
The more you write, the stinging tone gets less;
The balls you smash will fall away off-court;
Painting, cartooning help Anger harness;
Just hold your temper making it your forte!
An action rash in angry mood too fails;
When calm returns, a better sense prevails.
6-6-2001
This ill temper I have is making me mad
I blow up and I don’t know why
I wish for just a moment I could handle my anger right
I wish for just a moment I could love you right
I wish my attitude would just go away
I wish my anger would stay at bay
This outlook I have on life needs to change
This outlook I have you needs to say the same
I love you deep down inside
I wish you would see
That you’re the only princess for me
The anger I have deep in side
Comes out when I least expect it
This anger I have in me should just go away
This anger I have is an annoyance
This anger I have has messed my life up
This anger I have is stupid
Anger you have messed up my marriage
Anger you have messed up my life
Anger you have destroyed who I am inside and out
Anger you are the devil
Anger you are all that is bad
This anger I have in me has made me fight
A fight that was not worth it
Anger you made me hit the wrong person
Anger you made me do the wrong things
Anger you are the feeling that I would never miss
Anger you have caused me so much sorrow
Anger you have caused nothing but grief.
Anger just go away
I do not express my anger
I prefer to be at peace
I go away from present danger
and my problems begin to cease
But I grieve, for it cannot last
My anger refuses to be ignored
Painful memories from the past
Have become a ruler and a lord
They rule over my mind with brute force
I cannot help but to cry
Of actions they cause I have much remorse
Because of these crimes, I deserve to die
Anger trapped within
has become my torture, my sorrow, my sin
Know, O dear readers, that the medicine of a disease is to remove the
root cause of that disease. Isa (Jesus Christ) -peace be upon him-
was once asked: 'What thing is difficult?' He said: 'God's wrath.'
Prophet Yahya (John the Baptist) -peace be upon him- then asked:
'What thing takes near the wrath of God?' He said:'Anger'. Yahya -
peace be upon him- asked him:'What thing grows and increases anger?'
Isa -peace be upon him- said:'Pride, prestige, hope for honour and
haughtiness'
The causes which cause anger to grow are self-conceit, self-praise,
jests and ridicule, argument, treachery, too much greed for too much
wealth and name and fame. If these evils are united in a person, his
conduct becomes bad and he cannot escape anger.
So these things should be removed by their opposites. Self-praise is
to be removed by modesty. Pride is to be removed by one's own origin
and birth, greed is to be removed by remaining satisfied with
necessary things, and miserliness by charity.
The prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) said: 'A strong man is not
he who defeats his adversary by wrestling, but a strong man is he who
controls himself at the time of anger.'
We are describing below the medicines of anger after one gets angry.
The medicine is a mixture of knowledge and action. The medicine based
on knowledge is of six kinds:
(1) The first medicine of knowledge is to think over the rewards of
appeasing anger, that have come from the verses of the Quran and the
sayings of the Prophet (pbuh). Your hope for getting rewards of
appeasing anger will restrain you from taking revenge.
(2) The second kind of medicine based on knowledge is to fear the
punishment of God and to think that the punishment of God upon me is
greater than my punishment upon him. If I take revenge upon this man
for anger, God will take revenge upon me on the Judgement Day.
(3) The third kind of medicine of anger based on knowledge is to take
precaution about punishment of enmity and revenge on himself. You
feel joy in having your enemy in your presence in his sorrows, You
yourself are not free from that danger. You will fear that your enemy
might take revenge against you in this world and in the next.
(4) Another kind of medicine based on knowledge is to think about the
ugly face of the angry man, which is just like that of the ferocious
beast. He who appeases anger looks like a sober and learned man.
(5) The fifth kind of medicine based on knowledge is to think that the
devil will advise by saying: ' You will be weak if you do not get
angry!' Do not listen to him!
(6) The sixth reason is to think: ' What reason have I got to get
angry? What Allah wishes has occurred!'
Medicine based on action
When you get angry, say: I seek refuge in God from the accursed evil
(A'oudhou billaahi min as shaytaan ir rajeem). The prophet (pbuh)
ordered us to say thus.
When Ayesha (RA) got angry, he dragged her by the nose and said: ' O
dear Ayesha, say: O God, you are the Lord of my prophet Muhammad,
forgive my sins and remove the anger from my heart and save me from
misguidance.'
If anger does not go by this means, you will sit down if you are
standing, lie down if you are sitting, and come near to earth, as you
have been created of earth. Thus make yourself calm like the earth.
The cause of wrath is heat and its opposite is to lie down on the
ground and to make the body calm and cool.
The prophet (pbuh) said: Anger is a burning coal. Don't you see your
eyebrows wide and eyes reddish? So when one of you feels angry, let
him sit down if standing, and lie down if sitting.
If still anger does not stop, make ablution with cold water or take a
bath, as fire cannot be extinguished without water.
The prophet (pbuh) said : ' When one of you gets angry, let him make
ablution with water as anger arises out of fire.' In another
narration, he said:' Anger comes from the devil and the devil is made
of fire.'
Hazrat Ali (RA) said:
The prophet did not get angry for any action of the world. When any
true matter charmed him, nobody knew it and nobody got up to take
revenge for his anger. HE GOT ANGRY ONLY FOR TRUTH.
ur anger?
wat about mi anger?
wat about da fact,
i h8 mah life?
wat about touchin mah nerve?
da fact tat i miself,
from screamin out loud?
wat about me seein red?
wat about mi dissapointment,
me, shakin mah head,
sayin 'clean up UR act'
bcause ur selfish,
u care not 4 me, but
4 urself.....
wat about mah anger on tat? .....
I realized that you too get angry sometimes as human beings.
But you should serve a substitute instead of ferocious Quake.
The innocents poured precious tears in their lifetime
But no gratitude shown at all.
I won't blame you as I know since my childhood
Earth is a graveyard.
Listening to the storm
Seeing anger in your face
Stomping on the floor
As you start to make a disgrace
You fist against the wall
Forming cracks as you hit
Your temper isn't all
Your mind just seems to flip
You become a different person
A person who's unknown
You make people tense
Whenever you come to show
We would prefer to stay away
Not follow in your tracks
Your temper's not okay
Because your anger's in large stacks
This morning I’m a feline,
walking with grace.
Hips swaying side to side
Head held high, tilted slightly.
Slowly moving in to manipulate you.
This afternoon I’m a dog,
Needy, wanting, loving.
snuggling in your lap,
feeling the warmth of your body,
enjoying every precious moment.
Tonight I’m a tiger,
gracefully moving toward you
with great anticipation.
I’ll take you down,
you will be mine.
I’m an animal most of the time.
We’re marching for animal rights.
We have the right to fight.
Remember to hold you banners  high
As if they were going to touch the sky.
Walk with the turtles, especially old Myrtle.
She’s crawling slowly at the back.
Take Douglass the duck and Winslow the cat.
and push old Myrtle up the line,
She’s 102 ya know and still looking fine.
Today we march for all to see.
Come join with us, give us company.
We want to live and blend with you,
be your faithful companions too.
We live in a country of prosperity,
yet their are those  who treat us like dirt you see.
Give us what we deserve, we’ve paid our dues,
or we may take charge and turn on you.
We are your pets, should be your pride and joy.
Yet you treat us sometimes as if we were  toys.
We want our coats brushed, our wings fluffed
our backs shined, not all but most of the time.
Look those two old hens look like pretty good friends.
the dogs and cats are side by side,
three little mice are trying to hide.
The ducks and geese are walking proud,
and the monkeys are screeching out loud.
Pay attention to our demands,
We want love and gentle patting hands.
We want to be fed on time each day
and given attention while we play.
We want you to protect our right to live.
In turn we have much love to give.
Who is sexually interested much - guy or girl?
Guy says it openly but girl never though crazy!
Easiest way to pass time or forget oneself is sex!
Humans too are animals or human-animals ever!
Intellectually and spiritually human is far high;
But for procreation only animal way is for him!
Overcoming sexual desire is human's obligation;
Most of them have not transcended its realm ever;
Only then intellectual, intuitional powers work...!
Human body is a great wonder but it's finite ever;
Only human spirit is infinite on par with divinity
And that only can give eternal pleasure longer ever!
Knowing this why humans fail to overcome craziness?
Human is animal only though has mind and spirit ever!
Aimless animal
Tuesday,9th October 2018
it is better to die
than to live
as an aimless animal
Hasmukh Amathalal Mehta
Humans contrived weapons to help them survive,
Their spears and arrows kept them alive,
Eating just enough helped their prey to thrive,
Their numbers were relatively small.
As they evolved they became more diverse,
Across the planet they did disperse,
In taking control they did immerse,
Their progress no other could stall.
Their planet was rich in many resources,
For fuel they then searched other sources,
It’s from reality the unwise divorces,
Their behaviour began to appall.
There is no such thing as a precious metal,
What’s more valuable than gold, yes a petal,
Soon their ignorance would sting like a nettle,
Common sense they refused to install.
As a species they were only beginning to teethe,
But soon their incompetence made other life forms seethe,
With their fuels they poisoned the air they breathe,
In truth they knew bugger all.
Their weaponry if used would destroy their planet,
Even if they stopped now they’ll never ban it,
Their waste is fermenting under Earths granite,
They were heading for an almighty fall.
Extinctions under Humans became the norm,
With Mother Nature they refused to conform,
As they headed into the eye of the storm,
They continued having a ball.
Between them they became involved in a race,
To be the first to conquer outer space,
From what they encountered there’d be no hiding place,
When E.T. gave them a call.
What you have now is all you’ll ever get,
For your crass stupidity you will now pay the debt,
It’s far too late now to have any regret,
As all you ever did was brawl.
History will record that you tried and failed,
Your failure to help others has been unveiled,
On your own ineptitude you have been impaled,
Before you run you must learn to crawl.
Your arrogance made you think you were all seeing,
From reality you’ve been constantly fleeing,
You were never a superior intelligent being,
‘’ A More Dangerous Animal We Cannot Recall ‘’
Sahara desert
Rare oasis around
Hardly rain there
Dry leaves, dead sand
Some deadly herbs
As hot, hard stone;
The deathstalker
Namely scorpion,
The thorny devil,
The silver ant,
The scarab beetle,
The sand viper,
Horrible reptiles,
Desert hyenas,
Foxes, wild dogs;
Leopard, cheetahs;
And some hungry
Poisonous and
Ferocious beings
There live in;
Dry heart year round
No mercy in mind.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza | 8December,2017
When one is called simple
that may simply not be so.
A context in rhythm
is an arrogant conception,
a bereavement of solace
and an independent curator of time.
Hell hops the furry forward
and the breath of ones
own mother horn the adjunct.
A brazen blow to a humorous head
A jackal knightly; a usefull dish
among the kindled flame of orange hue.
Anticipate this. A brush with
the word; a coffin to suit the
most pleasurable death.
A just moment and a comprehensible
tip should not a hearty meal choke.
This is the metal, the straight
that bores the iron and shields man.
Copyright 12-19-2008©® Sarah Sisson
Animal is a creature:
A mammal,
Or beast,
Can be a brute,
Or a swine,
At best as a human being...
Known as... a living thing!
Animal is made of:
A flesh,
Some skeletons,
Litters of blood,
A weight of brain,
With gut of feelings...
Excited by... a sexual drive!
Animal is of all sort,
Has different breed,
But one thing is universal...
Survival...is an animal instinct!
In the Kingdom of animal royalty
Where cats and dogs would reign
There’d be no sign of cruelty
Nothing inhumane
To join, just sign the application
With paw-prints, you’ll prevail
Complete your obligation
With the wagging of your tail
You’ll never have to wear a leash
As humans are not allowed
Come and go, just as you please
T’would be the cat’s meow
Coyotes and wolves and dogs and cats
All creatures of the night
Like frogs and turtles and owls and bats
Deserve their Bill of Rights
Humans are so certain that
Our planet’s their domain
But they also thought the world was flat
How foolishly inane
So join with us in our freedom fight
For animal liberation
As we strive on earth to set things right
Against human domination
Animals are being abused everyday
And they are hopeless
They have nothing to say
What will you do if you were in there place?
When you have no voice to make them stop
Because some times they fight against you with no grace
And some of them after you gave them all that love
They don’t pay back enough
Because they consider animals as there own
But they belong to god, he gave them to us
So we won’t be alone
We can stop and never go back to the abuse again
We should start treating animals with kindness and respect
We can help them to make up for the pain
And we can also set them free to where they belong
Because we can’t lock them in cages
They didn’t do us any wrong
So tomorrow will be a fresh start with humans friends
And forget what we did for so long
Together we will stay tell the end.
As the warm weather heats the ground at my feet
Donkeys shaking at their knees
worked to death not given food to eat
as they carry the load from the work day full
on their backs across the mountains, all over the road
the grain is off to pakistan to be sold
a people lost selling their sole
I had some fun
With some deer
We made some runs
Not for beer
I collected nuts
With the squirrels
It's a lot of nuts
In this world
I fell asleep
Counting sheep
I know the wolves
Try to creep
Got a ride from a horse
Seen a cow
There's cattle in a church
Holy cow......
So I prayed with a mantis
I'm so lost like Atlantis
Then I spoke with a parrot
Raced a rabbit for a carrot
I bought a new raft
At the marina
Then shared a few laughs
With the hyenas
Due to heavy flooding
Had to tip toe
I also went mudding
With a hippo
Pigs in a blanket
Not hogs
Chow at the banquet
Hotdogs
Figuratively,
"It's a lot of d*mn buildings"
Literally......
Said, the beavers dam building
A kiss from a frog
A hiss from a snake
A lick from a dog
I get what it takes
I've bonded with animals
Just like the people
Our dependence on each other
Still remains equal
Read Animal Bonding Community 2 and look out for part 3
Quiero un amor feroz de garra y diente
Que me asalte a traición a pleno día
Y que sofoque esta soberbia mía
este orgullo de ser todo pudiente.
Quiero un amor feroz de garra y diente
Que en carne viva inicie mi sangría
A ver si acaba esta melancolía
Que me corrompe el alma lentamente.
Quiero un amor que sea una tormenta
Que todo rompe y lo renueva todo
Porque vigor profundo lo alimenta.
Que pueda reanimarse allí mi lodo,
Mi pobre lodo de animal cansado
Por viejas sendas de rodar hastiado.
Can you enjoy a meal,
If it ain't your Cat.
Is he mad as a Dog,
or blind as a Bat.
Could he be Chicken,
Doing a gig.
or
Roars  like a Lion;
and snorts  like a Pig.
Perhaps he's
Mean as a  Bear
Sly as a Fox
Quiet as a Mouse.
Or big as an Ox.
If I wonder anymore,
what he might be.
Would he fly like a Bird
or sting like a Bee
This has probably been done,
One way, or another.
Guess I better eat my words,
Before they turn to Butter,
Animal crackers and cocoa to drink,
That is the finest of suppers I think;
When I'm grown up and can have what I please
I think I shall always insist upon these.
What do YOU choose when you're offered a treat?
When Mother says, 'What would you like best to eat?'
Is it waffles and syrup, or cinnamon toast?
It's cocoa and animals that I love most!
The kitchen's the cosiest place that I know;
The kettle is singing, the stove is aglow,
And there in the twilight, how jolly to see
The cocoa and animals waiting for me.
Daddy and Mother dine later in state,
With Mary to cook for them, Susan to wait;
But they don't have nearly as much fun as I
Who eat in the kitchen with Nurse standing by;
And Daddy once said, he would like to be me
Having cocoa and animals once more for tea.
We are hell bent on committing animal cruelty
Thousands of unknown diseases emanate from poultry
They are culled in thousands under the pretext of containment
Have they just been remained as tools for entertainment?
Hundreds of slaughter houses are coming on day by day
Possibly we have no other option for extinction in any way
We are cutting our own roots to land in difficult situation
We may no alternative but go in for its continuation
Useful cattle parish in broad day light
They have lost the sympathy and rights
They are picked up and sent to slaughter houses
We watch it silently and no compassion arouse
Is there no enough food to last us long?
Do we have policies that are very wrong?
Cattle who have no further use may not outlive
What is the use of destroying precious lives?
They have served mankind well through out the centuries
They have saved them from great miseries
Nature too has provided enough to live on without their flesh
Why not to make right move and start from the fresh
They may last in few more years
We have profound interest and worst fears
We can’t allow them to disappear with pleasing eye
It is quite natural to raise the question and ask why?
No on has satisfactory answer or perfect solution
They are adding new dimension with enough ammunition
The population rise is thing of main concern
It may land us in major problem in turn
The natural source can’t be allowed to be used disproportionately
We have enough or in abundance fortunately
It must raise concern and worry even if lately
The solution must be found exactly and precisely
We have no right to go for complete annihilation
Nature and man kind has got direct relation
If nature is allowed to be finished so do we
It will then not be called world as free
Nature has never discouraged us from anything
It has offered us lot many things in form of something
It was always source of great satisfaction to us
We must preserve them at any cost and act thus
The world may still survive and so the cattle
The issue must be raise and allow it to settle
It is common cause that may take front seat
We are not here to challenge it completely beat
There may be some preventive laws
It lacks will power and has many flaws
We must try to reason out and draw
A complete full proof plan to show
Animal Farm
The news on papers, sites and yahoo
Politics as dirty as they’ve been forever
Comments, telescopes, microscopes give detail
See my Goosebumps, the hair standing on its tail
Is this a world we’re living in?
Are we in heaven or there’s nothing but a hell?
nice to be an animal
free from worry and care
no possessions
no clothes to wear
no toothbrush or comb
sleep anywhere
no clock to watch nor time to keep
sun and moon with you, awake or asleep
away from it all
enjoying woods and field
no rush hour to negotiate
your animal spirit healed
mate with whomever
no marriage endeavor
'poor' as you both are -
on a wild date - gaze at a falling star
never a need to cook
food from soil, stream or forest nook
eat your meat and veggies raw
no fork or knife - use your beak or paw
wild, surprising adventure
every challenging day
nature intended an interesting life
this natural way
Walking 'round my yard, I just wanted to see, if any
little friends wanted company..
I saw Mrs. Robin sitting in a tree, guarding her nest,
and her children three..
She was busy at the moment, and said, ' go visit Mr. Squirrel..
He just broke up with his cute little girl..'
I said, ' how do you do, Mr. Squirrel so blue, I
have some nuts, I'd like to share with you..'
He replied, 'keep the nuts, I don't want to be fed,
I'm feeling so sad, I'm going back to bed..
I left in a hurry to catch Mr. Rabbit, he was hopping along,
in his usual habit..  I said, 'hi Mr. Rabbit good to see you,
He replied, good to see you too but I got a lot of work to do..
As I strolled around the house, I saw the Groundhog,
and the Grouse..  The were both very busy, so I went
to see Mrs. Mouse..  Mrs. Mouse is usually home, 'cause
she rarely leaves the house..  She put a sign on the wall,
that was flapping in the breeze..  It read, ' Open House Today,
please bring your own cheese..' No one today wants to
talk or play.. I guess I'll read a book.. But first let me see,
if the Animals are all safe.. It's worth a second look..
That summer, we did not simply walk through
the valley of the shadow of death; we set up camp there,
orchestrating funerals for the anonymous,
found dead: a drowned mole—its small, naked palms
still pink—a crushed box turtle, green snake, even
a lowly toad. The last and most elaborate
of the burials was for a common jay,
identifiable but light and dry,
its eyes vacant orbits. We built a delicate
lichgate of willow fronds, supple, green—laced
through with chains of clover. Straggling congregation,
we recited what we could of the psalm
about green pastures as we lowered the shoebox
and its wilted pall of dandelions into the shallow
grave one of us had dug with a serving spoon.
That afternoon, just before September and school,
when we would again become children, and blind
to all but the blackboard's chalky lessons, the back
of someone's head, and what was, for a while longer,
the rarer, human death—there, in the heat-shimmered
trees, in the matted grasses where we stood,
even in the slant of humid shade—
we heard wingbeat, slither, buzz, and birdsong—
a green racket rising to fall as though
in a joyous dirge that was real,
and not part of our many, necessary rehearsals
A newborn bull calf
Being licked by its mother
Survival Instinct
Bite me
I will bite in return
Hurt me
I will hurt in return
Don't scare me
I will fill fear in you
Just once challenge me
I will bring you down
I like some thing
I will copy
You taunt me
I will simply deny
Accost me
I will tremble
Just once challenge me
I will bring you down
An animal is hidden
Inside this drape of humane
The instinct of a beast
Can never way out in feast
Let a moment trying appear
Restrain, humility disappear
Evil dances takes round
Revenge howls like hound
Trust and faith burn
Then Goodness in turn
Slumbers in this ground
Let that child wake
That hides in the rakes
Blow the whistle of peace
Hound in you can receive
Animal thus caged inside
Slowly love starts to ignite
The sweet smile upon your lips
Smooth movement of your hips
Charming gaze
Eyes ablaze
I see the animal in you
The softness of your skin
Your ever cheeky grin
Killer nails
Crazy tales
I feel the animal in you
The emotion in your tone
Intensely rich groan
Harsh speech
Now preach
I hear the animal in you
The fierce in your stroll
Kindness of your soul
Heart true
Destined view
I Love the animal in you
I've got this great kid who just loves all animals,
Cats, rabbits, dogs and ducks;
She wants to bring everything home
And it's getting rather tough -
If I'd let her
And she had her way,
She'd take in every wild critter
And each lost stray -
I'm running out of
Room and money,
Trying to house and feed
Ducks and bunnies -
I love my child dearly
And don't mean to complain,
But something's got to give
Before the whole farm goes down the drain!
I can't tell anymore
Who is running the place,
Us humans
Or those darn animals, for Pete's sake!
Plus my daughter's getting older now
And busier all the time,
So, it's dear old dad
Who's generally left with those critters to mind -
Looks like I'll just have to put my foot down
And let them all know,
In this little animal-kingdom
It is me who's King of the whole show!
Have you ever heard a giraffe laugh,
Or a chimpanzee go hee hee hee?
Have you happened to hear a rhino ho ho,
Or the goofy giggle of a happy little flea?
Animal lovers sit, with their exotic dogs,
at the trendy Cafe.
Pooch at feet, a smile
They ask what the Special for the day is.
Fresh catch? filet of baby cow? diced
young pigs, ? brutalized chickens? with
cheese and a very red whine...?
Puppies and kitties march in the street
holding signs that say, 'Paws For A Cause! '
Booths set up along side of the road
showing photos of Kitties without claws!
And puppies tales being snipped off
so that have that certain look.
And dog catchers wagons filled with unwanted dogs
all caught by that dog catchers hook!
Dogs barking out their discontent
of the treatment that they've received!
With the food and conditions they have to endure
so as to meet some human seen need!
Animals parade, 'Paws For A Cause! '
they don't seem to be willing to quit.
To bring attention to what humans are doing
Now take Paws to think about this!
Footsteps in the dark marching on the hearts
Of the stark winter terrain that was the family’s farm
Food shortage in the barn malnutrition starts to harm
No cream or proteins to stabilize their cells
Stomachs start to swell more than legends people tell
Frozen water in the well dehydration hits the lips
Rags clinging on to hips like rock climbers cling to cliffs
Brain damage then eclipse and then the focus shifts
The root cause of this strife fell down on these misfits
Because the regime that once deemed
Itself as for the people
Attained diplomatic status and a team
As secret as it was lethal
Predicated and dedicated to rooting out all foes
And enemies of state or anyone opposed
To their lavish lifestyles and constant talks of heroes
Zero tolerance for arguments on national policy
Broken promises the basis of this all-perfect polity
Sloppily take and take from the general public
Including any relatives who might have disrupted
Any luscious dinners with their cries of injustice
Crush peaceful marchers with tanks and sniper archers
Shoot into the crowd at anything moving around
In books and newspapers they write a different caption
Business as usual like the whole thing never happened
Dragged down to the ground with a shoulder out of place
A man struggles all about, anguish carved into his face
His attacker stands up, but only for a moment
He takes this time out to notice his blood roaming
A second later he feels a sharp pain in his back
His attacker brought his knee down with all the force he had
One, and two, and three times he fell
Screaming each time like the damned souls of hell
The man lay still, mind adrift in the wind
Sees the smiling faces and him amidst his kin
They reach out to him and he reaches in return
Only to return to a fire that’s started to burn
His attacker must’ve tired because it seemed like some time
Since he felt any blows manhandling his spine
He could be paralyzed, in any case
He couldn’t just lie there and die
His attacker stood at his head like one of prominence
Spit on the man and asserted his pure dominance
But suddenly dropped to the floor in agonizing pain
The man had cut a tendon and a very lively vein
Blade in hand and moving as fast as stone
The man crept to his attacker and brought the point home
Over and over as his eyes filled with tears
Collapsed on his attacker and let go of his shears
Barely breathing but alive he can hear the fans cheer
We
are animals.
Having the
same instincts
as any animal.
Law of the
jungle courses
through our
veins.
Hormones flush
clouding
judgement, wrecking
havoc on reason
and intellect.
Procreation,
self preservation
strongest of
animal
instincts.
Sex and violence
dominates
human culture.
We think
ourselves
superior
sophisticated.
Biology
millions
of years in
the making.
Civilization
thousands
of years in
the making.
Conflicting,
struggling
to peacefully
coexist.
clock o clock,
how could i be a diamond dog,
fox in the woods,
hunting for foods.
There are people I think who consider me friend,
But I don't know for sure that they're right,
I may walk like a duck, even quack like a duck,
But I doubt that that means we won't fight.
I bought animal crackers in box as a child,
But you can't purchase friendship that way,
I've found friendship is messy, can even be wild,
Ideology even holds sway.
So then how do you know if somebody's your friend?
ALL ARE BROTHERS if you honor Christ!
It's an unlikely outcome if you're slave to trend
That views friendship as way overpriced.
I think friendship means man must be Christian at heart,
God CAN'T care if he "knows" Christ or not,
Loving God and such man simply can't be apart,
If not true, then God's just tommyrot.
In this spirit let us love Republican queens,
Although Satan's grabbed them by their crotch,
For they seem to believe that end justifies means,
And take pride in each body, each notch!
Or let human race die but creation survive,
Man unworthy of Science or Grace?
Tooth and claw of the dinosaurs once again thrive,
And humanity's sin thus erase!
Long Tooth
February 23,2017
(Remember each plus+ prefixed line describes a diffrent animal. Try naming each different animal in the riddle. I've done these types of riddles on other sites and poets have so enjoyed doing them. So try solving and after sufficient answer attempts by diffrent poets I'll announce the 1st 3 winners along with my answers.)     ok try it.)
+Hooks and hangs itself prehensile style
+Paves the path with sticky glue slime
+Just watch a velvet moss covered branch that's mobile
+but watch out for that log-like predator's guile in the Nile
with a sly smile to beguile
+Nocturnal eyeballs move on baby face in the bush, oh my!
+Another a bird with the name of a flying toy in the sky.
+Its tongue that shoots out like a soft shooting arrow
+A winged biped one standing as upright as a human fellow.
+This one has the largest ears
+This one a little crown he wears
+A living teddybear gives its baby a piggy back ride.
+A young one who in its mommy's 'hide' pocket does hide
+Hardened skin house moving upon four wheels
+And another with a clothing that peels.
+Shakes its tail like a human baby's toy
+For safety in numbers this one's caravan convoy
Mention 3 animals who this method of travel employ.
Guess guess guess
animals have feelings
thoughts, needs, desires,
and emotions just as we do.
they're less likely to hide them,
or to lie about them...
and they love,
with undying hearts.
they have learned the beauty
of being who they are....
would that we could learn from them!
the next time someone tells you
that your dog or your cat,
your horse, or whatever,
doesnt have a soul,
slap them back into reality!
wolves pray when they howl.
whales talk across oceans.
birds define freedom with flight.
elephants teach us of family.
they are all a part of our families,
as we are of theirs...
we are responsible for each other.
let's live and love with respect!
we need each other!
Prevent the cruelty to animals
Animals are also entitled to live
To enjoy the life until the last
Save the animals for our own sake.
Human beings becomes so cruel
To the animals including wild ones
In fact the earth is common for all
Rights of animals are to be protected.
Observe the tendency of the humans
The rich history we have passed in centuries
In cultures, civilizations we followed
A thought of selfishness with animals.
Domesticated some of the animals from wild
They followed the commands we gave
We used them for travel, war, and milking
For its skins to make ourselves comfort.
Denied justice in its negative health
Even killed without hesitation at all
Animals are also bound to get justice
In this world of injustice sometimes.
Slowly and sluggishly humans accepts
They makes schemes for their protection
But still the road is far away to reach
Until there is the goal of security deserve.
Welfare of animals are a necessity
Surely for the development of human beings
They were with us from the beginning
Do not negate their rights and issues in blind.
Sacrifice unto me
The animal of thyself,
That tainted clothing
Of thy pride and flesh.
And…
With thy kneeling heart
And tears unfeigned,
Call upon the sword of truth
To cleave thy soul in twain.
To divide thy darkness
From thy light
And remove from thee
Thy sin
And sacrifice at last
Thy carnality
And the blackness
Of the beast within.
8-31-06
I am an animal
Proud to be one as I walk on the naked earth
My animal limbs and my whole  body free
Free from the constraints of human society
Free from the chains of cultural identity
Free from the guilt of the original sin
I am filled with the pleasure of being alive
I thus embrace all which is animal in me
On each breath I take I am one with animal nature
I cast aside all symbols that mankind  invented to enslave
And all the absurd religions and arrogant ceremonies
I live only to see my reflection on the purity of nature
I live to run, swim, or fly with all beasts
I rejoice as my feet sink in the primeval muck of existence
And exude the essence of all my ancestors
I sing with each breath I take
I sing to my own materiality
I am made of seas, clouds and mountains and all natural phenomena
I let extinguish forever all feelings of shame
The corrupting images of the supernatural
And the inherited instincts of cruelty and power
I reject the notion that heavy labor ennobles
When in fact was created to submit and humiliate
I bow or pray to no one.
I sing to nature and to my animal freedom.
I wish there was a cat in me
Giving love like a huge favour
But there's just a little puppy
Begging for it
A bird, a dog
and a croaking frog
sat in a barn
telling yarns
with a cow and a calf
just for a laugh;
oh, the tales they told
new stories and old
like the chicken who made it to the other side
and the rooster who tried but died
also the one about the long gone old goat
who chewed threw the rope around his throat;
they talked well past midnight
right up to first light
that is until a big ol' fox walked in
with a mile-wide grin, he said
I'll give you a tale to tell that's new
the one about the fox who ate every one of you;
but, that old fox was a real sap
he took one step forward then heard the trap go SNAP!
the farmer came on the run
in his hand a trusty old gun,
now the animals do have a new tale to tell
about the day an arrogant fox got blowed all to hell.
Day in day out i struggle
i have no future
None that i can see
nothing hopeful
nothing that can take from me this pain
nothing but one
death..
My life is one
uncaring
My life is one
ungrateful
my life is one
neglect
my life is one
death
Its difficult
for me to understand
its difficult
for me to
recall
If i had ever found out
why..
my life revolves in a cage
a cage of despair, death and steel
Yet i have it lucky
luckier than most
its painful
to see your own die
they don't care
they don't regret
my life consists
of no more than pain
helpless, hopeless pain
we never wronged them
we never interfered
we never hurt them
then why?
what..what did we do?
nothing...
Its hard to stay positive
its hard to remain hopeful
its hard to keep living
but we still do
and will do
until all hope is gone
Its difficult to live
When your life consists of nothing more than pain most days
Severe pain
It funny to know
the value of your life is nothing
nothing more than a beauty product
and perhaps for the lucky a cigarette.
Its painful to remember
the days strapped to the cold cold rack
while your eyes slowly melted away
wht coul you do but suffer
you could cry out but no one would come
Its tormenting to see
and feel your skin shrivel away
burnt and bloody
as the acid ate in
Its painful to know that you are slowly poisoned
and left to see whether you live of die
all that we could do was whimper
and some not even that
For us there is no hope
For us, no faith
For us, no remorse
only a slow painful death
This is no modern world
This is no intelligent race
This is no kind people
And we know
as we slowly crumble
the best part of it all is death...
It is not human trafficking.
The little hedgerow birds,
That peck along the roads, regard him not.
He travels on, and in his face, his step,
His gait, is one expression: every limb,
His look and bending figure, all bespeak
A man who does not move with pain, but moves
With thought.--He is insensibly subdued
To settled quiet: he is one by whom
All effort seems forgotten; one to whom
Long patience hath such mild composure given,
That patience now doth seem a thing of which
He hath no need. He is by nature led
To peace so perfect that the young behold
With envy, what the Old Man hardly feels.
Changes his color
Often like a chamelion
To intimidate
His rivals and the people
A vile political scheme.
Copyright 2020, Rose Marie Juan-Austin, All Rights Reserved poem
Have you ever thought you are a useless animal?
You do practically nothing or exceptionally well
You are bent upon creating nonsense and virtual hell
Who will come to you for all this things to tell?
It is not confined to one single person
We go on spoiling the things without any reason
When there can be vast sand timely change in the seasons?
Is there any scope for us to act different and commit arson?
We eat, indulge in marry making and spend the day
We are practically spent over and lost on the way
We simply look at the sky for help with bright ray
How can it happen when you are not sure of how to say?
It demands care all the time for relatives and friends
You can’t live in isolation only to meet ends
You love the dear ones at home and outside
Try to create close infinity with bond and confide
Love is seasonal fruit and in times available
If you show it with sincerity then you will be able to
Cultivate the friendship for all times to come
Praise from all quarters and you will be welcome
Try to reach out to each and every one in your circle
How flowers look beautiful in colors like red.pink and purple?
It is our duty to spread fragrance with some purpose
Life may look beautiful and meaningful thus
We can’t spent the life animals even though are quite useful
We should be free enough to think twice before being called fool
It is of no use that we are termed or called under that context
We got to prepare ourselves for the next possible test
We are human beings and may err sometimes
We may be cautioned and warned many times
It is quite natural to follow suit and amend
It may be nice to find us comfortable t the end
Throw open all the doors and wait for change
Face all the difficulties and possibly manage
Try for everything which you can have and arrange
It will be definitely a good beginning on your page
How can we make it worth while and enjoy?
Why not we render happiness and joy?
We are human beings so naturally react
It is not impossible for us to fairly act
We are social animal and have to live among
No one is perfect and we may sometime go wrong
It is still possible to compromise and act in fairness
Everything can be tackled with wisdom and coolness
A was an elegant Ape
Who tied up his ears with red tape,
And wore a long veil
Half revealing his tail
Which was trimmed with jet bugles and crape.
B was a boastful old Bear
Who used to say,--'Hoomh! I declare
I can eat--if you'll get me
The children, and let me--
Ten babies, teeth, toenails and hair!'
C was a Codfish who sighed
When snatched from the home of his pride,
But could he, embrined,
Guess this fragrance behind,
How glad he would be that he died!
D was a dandified Dog
Who said,--'Though it's raining like fog
I wear no umbrellah,
Me boy, for a fellah
Might just as well travel incog!'
E was an elderly Eel
Who would say,--'Well, I really feel--
As my grandchildren wriggle
And shout 'I should giggle'--
A trifle run down at the heel!'
F was a Fowl who conceded
_Some_ hens might hatch more eggs than _she_ did,--
But she'd children as plenty
As eighteen or twenty,
And that was quite all that she needed.
G was a gluttonous Goat
Who, dining one day, _table-d'hote,_
Ordered soup-bone, _au fait_,
And fish, _papier-mache_,
And a _filet_ of Spring overcoat.
H was a high-cultured Hound
Who could clear forty feet at a bound,
And a coon once averred
That his howl could be heard
For five miles and three-quarters around.
I was an Ibex ambitious
To dive over chasms auspicious;
He would leap down a peak
And not light for a week,
And swear that the jump was delicious.
J was a Jackass who said
He had such a bad cold in his head,
If it wasn't for leaving
The rest of us grieving,
He'd really rather be dead.
K was a profligate Kite
Who would haunt the saloons every night;
And often he ust
To reel back to his roost
Too full to set up on it right.
L was a wary old Lynx
Who would say,--'Do you know wot I thinks?--
I thinks ef you happen
To ketch me a-nappin'
I'm ready to set up the drinks!'
M was a merry old Mole,
Who would snooze all the day in his hole,
Then--all night, a-rootin'
Around and galootin'--
He'd sing 'Johnny, Fill up the Bowl!'
N was a caustical Nautilus
Who sneered, 'I suppose, when they've _caught_ all us,
Like oysters they'll serve us,
And can us, preserve us,
And barrel, and pickle, and bottle us!'
O was an autocrat Owl--
Such a wise--such a wonderful fowl!
Why, for all the night through
He would hoot and hoo-hoo,
And hoot and hoo-hooter and howl!
P was a Pelican pet,
Who gobbled up all he could get;
He could eat on until
He was full to the bill,
And there he had lodgings to let!
Q was a querulous Quail,
Who said: 'It will little avail
The efforts of those
Of my foes who propose
To attempt to put salt on my tail!'
R was a ring-tailed Raccoon,
With eyes of the tinge of the moon,
And his nose a blue-black,
And the fur on his back
A sad sort of sallow maroon.
S is a Sculpin--you'll wish
Very much to have one on your dish,
Since all his bones grow
On the outside, and so
He's a very desirable fish.
T was a Turtle, of wealth,
Who went round with particular stealth,--
'Why,' said he, 'I'm afraid
Of being waylaid
When I even walk out for my health!'
U was a Unicorn curious,
With one horn, of a growth so _luxurious_,
He could level and stab it--
If you didn't grab it--
Clean through you, he was so blamed furious!
V was a vagabond Vulture
Who said: 'I don't want to insult yer,
But when you intrude
Where in lone solitude
I'm a-preyin', you're no man o' culture!'
W was a wild _Wood_chuck,
And you can just bet that he _could_ 'chuck'
He'd eat raw potatoes,
Green corn, and tomatoes,
And tree roots, and call it all '_good_ chuck!'
X was a kind of X-cuse
Of a some-sort-o'-thing that got loose
Before we could name it,
And cage it, and tame it,
And bring it in general use.
Y is the Yellowbird,--bright
As a petrified lump of star-light,
Or a handful of lightning-
Bugs, squeezed in the tight'ning
Pink fist of a boy, at night.
Z is the Zebra, of course!--
A kind of a clown-of-a-horse,--
Each other despising,
Yet neither devising
A way to obtain a divorce!
& here is the famous--what-is-it?
Walk up, Master Billy, and quiz it:
You've seen the _rest_ of 'em--
Ain't this the _best_ of 'em,
Right at the end of your visit?
And now to what remains!- Since I've resolved
By what arrangements all things come to pass
Through the blue regions of the mighty world,-
How we can know what energy and cause
Started the various courses of the sun
And the moon's goings, and by what far means
They can succumb, the while with thwarted light,
And veil with shade the unsuspecting lands,
When, as it were, they blink, and then again
With open eye survey all regions wide,
Resplendent with white radiance- I do now
Return unto the world's primeval age
And tell what first the soft young fields of earth
With earliest parturition had decreed
To raise in air unto the shores of light
And to entrust unto the wayward winds.
In the beginning, earth gave forth, around
The hills and over all the length of plains,
The race of grasses and the shining green;
The flowery meadows sparkled all aglow
With greening colour, and thereafter, lo,
Unto the divers kinds of trees was given
An emulous impulse mightily to shoot,
With a free rein, aloft into the air.
As feathers and hairs and bristles are begot
The first on members of the four-foot breeds
And on the bodies of the strong-y-winged,
Thus then the new Earth first of all put forth
Grasses and shrubs, and afterward begat
The mortal generations, there upsprung-
Innumerable in modes innumerable-
After diverging fashions. For from sky
These breathing-creatures never can have dropped,
Nor the land-dwellers ever have come up
Out of sea-pools of salt. How true remains,
How merited is that adopted name
Of earth- "The Mother!"- since from out the earth
Are all begotten. And even now arise
From out the loams how many living things-
Concreted by the rains and heat of the sun.
Wherefore 'tis less a marvel, if they sprang
In Long Ago more many, and more big,
Matured of those days in the fresh young years
Of earth and ether. First of all, the race
Of the winged ones and parti-coloured birds,
Hatched out in spring-time, left their eggs behind;
As now-a-days in summer tree-crickets
Do leave their shiny husks of own accord,
Seeking their food and living. Then it was
This earth of thine first gave unto the day
The mortal generations; for prevailed
Among the fields abounding hot and wet.
And hence, where any fitting spot was given,
There 'gan to grow womb-cavities, by roots
Affixed to earth. And when in ripened time
The age of the young within (that sought the air
And fled earth's damps) had burst these wombs, O then
Would Nature thither turn the pores of earth
And make her spurt from open veins a juice
Like unto milk; even as a woman now
Is filled, at child-bearing, with the sweet milk,
Because all that swift stream of aliment
Is thither turned unto the mother-breasts.
There earth would furnish to the children food;
Warmth was their swaddling cloth, the grass their bed
Abounding in soft down. Earth's newness then
Would rouse no dour spells of the bitter cold,
Nor extreme heats nor winds of mighty powers-
For all things grow and gather strength through time
In like proportions; and then earth was young.
Wherefore, again, again, how merited
Is that adopted name of Earth- The Mother!-
Since she herself begat the human race,
And at one well-nigh fixed time brought forth
Each breast that ranges raving round about
Upon the mighty mountains and all birds
Aerial with many a varied shape.
But, lo, because her bearing years must end,
She ceased, like to a woman worn by eld.
For lapsing aeons change the nature of
The whole wide world, and all things needs must take
One status after other, nor aught persists
Forever like itself. All things depart;
Nature she changeth all, compelleth all
To transformation. Lo, this moulders down,
A-slack with weary eld, and that, again,
Prospers in glory, issuing from contempt.
In suchwise, then, the lapsing aeons change
The nature of the whole wide world, and earth
Taketh one status after other. And what
She bore of old, she now can bear no longer,
And what she never bore, she can to-day.
In those days also the telluric world
Strove to beget the monsters that upsprung
With their astounding visages and limbs-
The Man-woman- a thing betwixt the twain,
Yet neither, and from either sex remote-
Some gruesome Boggles orphaned of the feet,
Some widowed of the hands, dumb Horrors too
Without a mouth, or blind Ones of no eye,
Or Bulks all shackled by their legs and arms
Cleaving unto the body fore and aft,
Thuswise, that never could they do or go,
Nor shun disaster, nor take the good they would.
And other prodigies and monsters earth
Was then begetting of this sort- in vain,
Since Nature banned with horror their increase,
And powerless were they to reach unto
The coveted flower of fair maturity,
Or to find aliment, or to intertwine
In works of Venus. For we see there must
Concur in life conditions manifold,
If life is ever by begetting life
To forge the generations one by one:
First, foods must be; and, next, a path whereby
The seeds of impregnation in the frame
May ooze, released from the members all;
Last, the possession of those instruments
Whereby the male with female can unite,
The one with other in mutual ravishments.
And in the ages after monsters died,
Perforce there perished many a stock, unable
By propagation to forge a progeny.
For whatsoever creatures thou beholdest
Breathing the breath of life, the same have been
Even from their earliest age preserved alive
By cunning, or by valour, or at least
By speed of foot or wing. And many a stock
Remaineth yet, because of use to man,
And so committed to man's guardianship.
Valour hath saved alive fierce lion-breeds
And many another terrorizing race,
Cunning the foxes, flight the antlered stags.
Light-sleeping dogs with faithful heart in breast,
However, and every kind begot from seed
Of beasts of draft, as, too, the woolly flocks
And horned cattle, all, my Memmius,
Have been committed to guardianship of men.
For anxiously they fled the savage beasts,
And peace they sought and their abundant foods,
Obtained with never labours of their own,
Which we secure to them as fit rewards
For their good service. But those beasts to whom
Nature has granted naught of these same things-
Beasts quite unfit by own free will to thrive
And vain for any service unto us
In thanks for which we should permit their kind
To feed and be in our protection safe-
Those, of a truth, were wont to be exposed,
Enshackled in the gruesome bonds of doom,
As prey and booty for the rest, until
Nature reduced that stock to utter death.
But Centaurs ne'er have been, nor can there be
Creatures of twofold stock and double frame,
Compact of members alien in kind,
Yet formed with equal function, equal force
In every bodily part- a fact thou mayst,
However dull thy wits, well learn from this:
The horse, when his three years have rolled away,
Flowers in his prime of vigour; but the boy
Not so, for oft even then he gropes in sleep
After the milky nipples of the breasts,
An infant still. And later, when at last
The lusty powers of horses and stout limbs,
Now weak through lapsing life, do fail with age,
Lo, only then doth youth with flowering years
Begin for boys, and clothe their ruddy cheeks
With the soft down. So never deem, percase,
That from a man and from the seed of horse,
The beast of draft, can Centaurs be composed
Or e'er exist alive, nor Scyllas be-
The half-fish bodies girdled with mad dogs-
Nor others of this sort, in whom we mark
Members discordant each with each; for ne'er
At one same time they reach their flower of age
Or gain and lose full vigour of their frame,
And never burn with one same lust of love,
And never in their habits they agree,
Nor find the same foods equally delightsome-
Sooth, as one oft may see the bearded goats
Batten upon the hemlock which to man
Is violent poison. Once again, since flame
Is wont to scorch and burn the tawny bulks
Of the great lions as much as other kinds
Of flesh and blood existing in the lands,
How could it be that she, Chimaera lone,
With triple body- fore, a lion she;
And aft, a dragon; and betwixt, a goat-
Might at the mouth from out the body belch
Infuriate flame? Wherefore, the man who feigns
Such beings could have been engendered
When earth was new and the young sky was fresh
(Basing his empty argument on new)
May babble with like reason many whims
Into our ears: he'll say, perhaps, that then
Rivers of gold through every landscape flowed,
That trees were wont with precious stones to flower,
Or that in those far aeons man was born
With such gigantic length and lift of limbs
As to be able, based upon his feet,
Deep oceans to bestride; or with his hands
To whirl the firmament around his head.
For though in earth were many seeds of things
In the old time when this telluric world
First poured the breeds of animals abroad,
Still that is nothing of a sign that then
Such hybrid creatures could have been begot
And limbs of all beasts heterogeneous
Have been together knit; because, indeed,
The divers kinds of grasses and the grains
And the delightsome trees- which even now
Spring up abounding from within the earth-
Can still ne'er be begotten with their stems
Begrafted into one; but each sole thing
Proceeds according to its proper wont
And all conserve their own distinctions based
In Nature's fixed decree.
Butchering animal is said to be
the production of meat requires for good health.
Abortion and destruction of
productive power of man
is called family welfare and peace.
Licentious behavior of women, under the control of other
males besides husband, destruction of ethical propriety
is termed as freedom of women.
Moral degradation is named progress,
Beastly behavior is mark of civilization,
Righteousness is communalism.
Reading and writing and talking always
in other than mother-tongue, in foreign language
Contrary to own culture is called as wise and intelligent.
pressed against the glass
reflection from down
on the smooth surface
sitting like a cat
transparency turns the animal
into a small beautiful pet
opening the mouth for a miaow
no sound just a gesture
all perceptions have one meaning
without audible silent motion
expanding skin on the lucent wall
expressing the emotion
the dull kitten watched
the opposite side clueless
remaining air suffocated
pussy wanted to break open
filling the glazed space
with fears of demise
the fragile box could hardly resist
the puerile kid jumped out
ruptured into bits of crystal
there once was a crazy animal
that liked to roll in a ball
then one fall
there was a call
for the crazy animal
the call put the crazy animal was apauled
I'm writing to you from the loneliest, most
secluded island in the world. I mean,
the farthest away place from anything else.
There are so many fruits here growing on trees
or on vines that wrap and wrap. Fruits
like I've never seen except the bananas.
All night the abandoned dogs howled.
I wonder if one dog gives the first howl, and if
they take turns who's first like carrying
the flag in school. Carrying the flag
way out in front and the others
following along behind in two long lines,
pairs holding hands. Also the roosters here crow
from 4am onward. They're still crowing right now
and it's almost noon here on the island.
Noon stares back no matter where you are.
Today I'm going to hike to the extinct volcano
and balance on the rim of the crater. Yesterday
a gust almost blew me inside. I heard
that the black widows live inside the volcano
far down below in the high grasses that you can't
see from the rim. Well, I was going to tell you
that this morning the bells rang and I
followed them and at the source of the bells,
there I found so many animals
all gathered together in a room
with carved wooden statues
and wooden benches and low wooden slats
for kneeling. And the animals were there
singing together, all their voices singing,
with big strong voices rising from even
the filthiest animals. I mean, I've seen animals
come together and sing before, except in
high fancy vaults where bits of colored glass
are pieced together into stories. Some days
I want to sing with them.
I wish more animals sang together all the time.
But then I can't sing sometimes
because I think of the news that happens
when the animals stop singing.
And then I think of all the medications
and their side effects that are advertised
between the pieces of news. And then I think
of all the money the drug companies spent
to videotape their photogenic, well-groomed animals,
and all the money they spent to buy
a prime-time spot, and I think, what money
buys the news, and what news
creates the drugs, and what
drugs control the animals, and I get so
choked I can't sing anymore, Lonely Animal.
I can't sing with the other animals. Because it's
hard to know what an animal will do when it
stops singing. It's complicated, you know, it's just
complicated—
'Do vegetarians eat animal crackers? '
Was what I was asked one day.
It was a man on the street,
And that's all he would say.
My reply to him was,
'I do not know.
But I'll find out for you.
So now I will go.'
So I went to a center,
Where some vegee-heads ate.
And I asked them my question,
With no further delay.
Their answer to me,
Made me laugh close to dead.
'Of course we do silly,
We bite off their heads! '
Dreams I have we can stop animal cruelty.
Dear Lord, please will you grant me a wish that
the perpetrators of cruelty to twelve thousand caged bears in Asia will in the next life be born a bear,
put in a cage for life then drain their bile too from a stomach wound just as they are doing right now!
Thank you Dear God.
It is beautiful wish
That finishes
With welfare for people
Who daily struggle
There is no end to desires
Which sometimes misfire?
Catch us on wrong foot
And in misdirection shoot
To wish for all
And give lovely call
It is sign of good soul
That never smells foul
Let us all pray
For comfortable stay
And spend the rest of the journey
With nice feeling of being happy
Let us remain earthly animals
And call for good human
It is need of an hour
As this one is holy tour
They walk like a majestic, behave like gentle animals
Elephants are known as the biggest mammal on earth
Let it be cultural or any other ceremonies they continue to
play their common role in them.
Raise their trunk for trumpet
Weg their tail and ears to chase flies and squirt water
These gentle giants that tread the earth.
Always like to wallow in the mud and love to
immerse themselves in the water for long hours
They show great affection for one another and
take care of their young ones very dearly
Not only they are sensitive animals by nature
but also have a great memory
Although, they are useful to human in many ways
but also they are killed for their priceless tusks.
They are great animals in the jungle and parade like a majestic.
We are surely fool animal
If can't sense the downfall's arrival
Even insects and birds sense the danger
Why should we commit something in anger?
We can't resort to follow dangerous way
Addiction, if you consider, is all the way driving you away
From real life to that of artificial thinking
In fact taking you at the bottom and sinking
Consumption of alcohol can be legal
Some of its consequences may be illegal
Anything taken in excess is bad
That increases frustration and makes you sad
Inner consciousness is real reflection
That shall never allow you to for bad action
But since you are made slave of desires
Nothing good can be accepted by you to admire
It is wrong to assume about the winner
The chances of coming out it becomes thinner
It may certainly kill you from within
What will then be loss or gain?
It is time pass for pleasure
Certain quantities are allowed for sure
If you can control and drive your desires
Nothing may go into flames or on fire
Keep it to self and master the art
You are the person to have good start
Be not at its mercy and succumb
It may otherwise make you to jump
The day may end with tragic death
People may lament death and lay the wreath
For few days you may be remembered
Rest all may be the days to follow and numbered
A passion which refused to ache,
I found her shadow,
with all of its colors,
beneath my pillow.
A kiss made of memory,
a breath five decades long,
a distant stain upon the stars.
She is slowly becoming translucent.
Soon, she will be transparent.
This is no accident.
Eventually, we all disappear.
Please see her as
she truly is:
full of light
and illusion, like
an uncut diamond.
Her magical self
carries the knowledge
that death is not an injury.
She is the pause, the gasp,
the moment of wonder
between one incarnation
and the next.
animal joy
freedom from
all guilts
All the animals
trundle by
on a conveyor belt.
Adam feels
like a contestant
on a T.V.
Quiz Show.
Can get to keep
the things he names
there's heaps & heaps.
God beams
like he's Noel Edmonds.
Adam's nervous
sweats under the T.V. lights.
'Eh...bog...cog...eh...log
no.. .doy...yes...dog! '
'Yes...that's it! '
And so we barely get
man's best friend.
'That! ' Adam points at cat
and God(being hard of hearing)
gives him that.
Adam really messes up
when it gets to Pegasus, centaur,
unicorn and dragon.
*******
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
Adam laughs
when he sees his first giraffe.
Couldn't think
of a proper name
for
it.
'Go on...come on! '
God prods and prompts.
But all Adam
can do
is laugh...&...laugh.
So between them
they name it
Gir affe
meaning that
which makes one
laugh.
How shall my animal
Whose wizard shape I trace in the cavernous skull,
Vessel of abscesses and exultation's shell,
Endure burial under the spelling wall,
The invoked, shrouding veil at the cap of the face,
Who should be furious,
Drunk as a vineyard snail, flailed like an octopus,
Roaring, crawling, quarrel
With the outside weathers,
The natural circle of the discovered skies
Draw down to its weird eyes?
How shall it magnetize,
Towards the studded male in a bent, midnight blaze
That melts the lionhead's heel and horseshoe of the heart
A brute land in the cool top of the country days
To trot with a loud mate the haybeds of a mile,
Love and labour and kill
In quick, sweet, cruel light till the locked ground sprout
The black, burst sea rejoice,
The bowels turn turtle,
Claw of the crabbed veins squeeze from each red particle
The parched and raging voice?
Fishermen of mermen
Creep and harp on the tide, sinking their charmed, bent pin
With bridebait of gold bread, I with a living skein,
Tongue and ear in the thread, angle the temple-bound
Curl-locked and animal cavepools of spells and bone,
Trace out a tentacle,
Nailed with an open eye, in the bowl of wounds and weed
To clasp my fury on ground
And clap its great blood down;
Never shall beast be born to atlas the few seas
Or poise the day on a horn.
Sigh long, clay cold, lie shorn,
Cast high, stunned on gilled stone; sly scissors ground in frost
Clack through the thicket of strength, love hewn in pillars drops
With carved bird, saint, and suns the wrackspiked maiden mouth
Lops, as a bush plumed with flames, the rant of the fierce eye,
Clips short the gesture of breath.
Die in red feathers when the flying heaven's cut,
And roll with the knocked earth:
Lie dry, rest robbed, my beast.
You have kicked from a dark den, leaped up the whinnying light,
And dug your grave in my breast.
Animal is seen for animal
But human is for unknown
I ask you don't respond.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza | 31 October,2017
My children planned a visit to a zoo,
They invited me, I replied with a shoo,
I already have a zoo inside, within me,
I cannot show and you cannot see.
All the animals are present in a man,
You can see them with an honest scan.
Both for the friends and their enemies,
They have long, very long memories.
Like funny camels, like large elephants,
Whether old or youths or innocent infants.
They often behave like a beast so wild,
They don't hesitate to abuse a child.
For many centuries they've been killing fellow men,
They have misused their sword and their pen,
Most of their killings were in His religion and name,
Man was never shy of this bloody game.
Men cast their thinking in a too old mold.
Those adventurists seeking silver and gold,
Left footprints of animals in fact,
I see in the prints many criminals in fact.
On the other hand like birds they twit,
Under blue moons are lovely and sweet,
Loyal and faithful like horses and dogs,
Swim and jump just like the frogs,
Entertain the children like a dolphin or a monkey,
Before pretty women they flirt like a donkey,
Like a peacock they dance in a hall,
Like a sweet cuckoo, girlfriends they call.
They are handsome when they love fellow men,
Praise them with their words and use their pen.
I don't need to watch a zoo,
I am a man but an animal too.
Few things rules the world,
And all are, almost all are very keen to it,
Like removing the clothes; bit by bit,
Kiss- killing is so simple-
It is hiss,
Closed door love if unveiled,
Sex is a sonnet if made it an Ode,
Make a painting with molten wax,
That must symbolize sex,
Running sexual commentary is attention getter,
Let all the secrets must be opened,
Charm of sex will run away,
There will be no rape,
There will be no molestation,
No teasing on sexual basis,
Let us write -
All known secrets—
What harm in it?
Let human be animal-
I know animal instinct is still alive
©2014 Aftab Alam Khursheed. All rights reserved
Poets are imagery animals
Wait for thoughts arrival
Think a lot and then write
Use head more to ignite
Thoughts are burnt
Wish ashes to turn
Into new form to upraise
The status to be up and praised
But normally they are quiet
Allow things to let
Down at low level
With proper time to excel
Now millions come up like flowers
Even without rainy showers
They are product of fast age
Not much to impress with each page
One in million stars is praised
Taken to recognition and believed
Poets are known as star family
Twinkle little in their own capacity
Not all may be able to speak with authority
Some may define imagery love and some may praise almighty
Some may put with all the times to remember and some with variety
It is all about poets tenure and may not be remembered like deity
It is their job to create pure imagination
Sometimes to be painted with correct relation
Not all the incidences pure images
Some ideas are meant to take out souls from the cages
It is reasonable stand to expose
To be known as poet and pose
With whatever capacity and thrust
The poet's position is commendable and is must
Intelligent animal
Monday,4th May 2020
You could have been dog, cat or rat
but you were set
for noble mission
with the human creation
so special
and intelligent animal
who was given third sense to control
the rage, hate and prevent fall
universally considered as wild animal
but has enough of an opportunities to prove as good individual
full life to emerge as noble man
and prove as capable human beings
show your worth
and dare the death
with full faith
to have an easy and free breathe
you are born free
so don't flee
from the responsibilities
and shut the possibilities
life must be over
but after providing full cover
to expand the vast horizon
and make the life mission fully shown
Hasmukh Mehta
2)  In animal durbar aliens' teeter-tottering on dandle board in the middle sat some rats and jumping cats unsure of anything tried to jump in both ways but the result is they stayed at the same in the theatre of absurd, really buffoons! Abracadabra!  Politico-clowns wore psycho gowns in their hands, magic wands ready to offer some sops to the both dwellers of pandemonium and harmonium: Sponsoring free tickets to all galaxies with a bonus ambrosia, lifetime guarantee - arrangements meeting with aliens, robot slaves, free WiFi www connections even in hamlets,1 kg gold, to kids, some toys: cycles, cars, elephants, sickle, fans, etc. Special offers to little boys teddy bears with hands; to little girls supplying lotus flowers 24/7 are only few to name: Mania, mania, election mania election shouted modern soothsayers in hallucination.
Fisherman bought fishing net, put some bait to catch a fish sang fisher man waving his hands to his sweethearts; oh sorry they are just his voters. Holy-moly In the animal durbar, playing chess teeter-tottered aliens on the dandle board, in the middle meddled so dumping rats and jumping cats on either side but unsure of anything jumped in both ways but the result is stayed at the same place in the theatre of absurd, oh real buffoons!
Rattrap peddler, just a meddler bought a trap, added some cheese crop and dropped to trap some special rats: "on my shirt, on my sleeves, in my pockets and in my collar are my lovers, only just lotus flowers, April fool in the election school! Abracadabra!  Politico-clowns wore psycho gowns in their hands, magic wands ready to offer some sops to the both dwellers of pandemonium and harmonium: Sponsoring free tickets to all galaxies with a bonus ambrosia, lifetime guarantee - arrangements meeting with aliens, robot slaves, free WiFi www connections even in hamlets and 1 kg gold -
to kids, some toys: cycles, cars, elephants, sickle, fans, etc. Special offers to little boys teddy bears with 3 hands; to little girls supplying lotus flowers 24/7 are only few to name - sang Holly hock, holy cow, holy man, holy you and holy me and chanted modern soothsayers in hallucination: Mania, mania, election mania election!
Behind the smooth texture
Of my eyes, way inside me,
A part of me has died:
I move my bloody fingernails
Across it, hard as a blackboard,
Run my fingers along it,
The chalk white scars
That say I AM SCARED,
Scared of what might become
Of me, the real me,
Behind these prison walls.
It’s not MY idea for a poem title, but
my wife’s, whose got me in a bridal bridle.
She’s lived with an animal before, but
NOW, in ME, she’s got near-a-score!
A score of animals, like in a zoo;
I’m more of an animal than she or you.
It’s true, I really AM a True-human, .....but
animal traits in me are always bloomin’.
I’ve got a gorilla-sized head on my shoulders;
elephant-like hairs are on my broad back;
sometimes I smell nearly like a skunk;
like a penguin, in my feet, heat I lack.
I drink liquids like a humped-camel;
I eat like a pig at his last meal;
I pick scraps of meat from bones like a vulture;
like a lion, I lick my plate.  NO lie. That's for real!
I jump like a rabbit when suddenly startled;
up a tree like a squirrel, I can climb;
I walk like a monkey (or so my wife says):
I sleep like a bear-in-winter....., “OVERtime”.
I hear like an owl.  [well, this one’s a lie.];
when I howl like a wolf, my wife would like to bury (me):
at some movies I laugh like a crazy hyena;
I belch like a bison, long gone from the prairie.
I’m nearly as proud as a peacock.  Why not? I ask.
But I’m slow as a turtle at some chores I do.
At times I’m stubborn as a mule or wild ass,
but at times loving as a lovebird; this last is (ALMOST)  true.
(Feb.2013; revised July ’13)
MAN AND ANIMAL
Animal,
hunts,
To quench his thirst and hunger,
On the other hand,
Man hunts,
For amusement after driving away the hunger,
Animal never runs in the materialistic race,
One race never kills another,
But man kills man
Man, and animal
Confused, can't take a side
-like forward in football
-who shoots but is offside.
I have lived a long life
-have had, seen animals
-hugged, fed them as my dolls
-and for them have cried…
But also ate the meat
-of chicken, lambs, llamas
-as well as fish and cows.
My clothes from wool
-of skin have worn shoes.
How can I ever judge?
How can I be the right?
But questions I can have:
- "What should be relations
-with them as one and all? "
The Natives caught one and
-shared it; were satisfied.
Came Europe with the gun
-destroyed the wildlife
-said: "We are civilized! "
Others were savages! ! !
Now butchers, restaurants
-kill in mass, make kebab
-from pig, lamb, and cows
-but praise the pet dogs
-as was once, horse to ride.
Don't trust the mankind
-mostly if civilized…
- "He is most brutal! "
Neither a part of the teeming herds
nor a rebel without cause,
Not one who is driven solely by ego,
the need to slay others in insecure wars.
There's a new animal in the jungle,
A different sub-species of human,
Forged from fires of love, compassion & courage,
with purpose being the best & noblest in us to champion
He sees the pain, feels the sadness,
that permeates post modernity,
self-obsessed, prepossessing drive,
that's disguised as individuality.
This new animal's in the jungle,
Well-connected & concerned is he,
He seeks the best in himself,
to strive for the best of all humanity.
He is not indifferent
to negativity or sufferings,
Nor has he renounced this world,
Fed up of all material things,
This new animal rejoices in the jungle,
Leaps out of despair,
Born afresh as spirit, divinity,
Spurred by ambition & desire,
He is of great heart & vitality.
Swift as a tiger,
Like a lion, is he strong,
Freed from self-imposed shackles,
None external can do him wrong.
With a mighty roar, signals his arrival,
Of courage & conviction, there is no dearth.
This new animal's primed to take on,
Everything on this Earth.
O Love, dark animal,
With your strangeness go
Like any freak or clown:
Appease tee child in her
Because she is alone
Many years ago
Terrified by a look
Which was not meant for her.
Brush your heavy fur
Against her, long and slow
Stare at her like a book,
Her interests being such
No one can look too much.
Tell her how you know
Nothing can be taken
Which has not been given:
For you time is forgiven:
Informed by hell and heaven
You are not mistaken
Have you ever heard of a sheep-
that was a police officer?
arresting a lone wolf
for committing a murder
have you ever heard of a cow
that was a judge?
sentencing a pig
for stealing chocolate fudge
have you ever heard of an eagle-
that was a president?
flying above his subjects
watching over his residents
have you ever heard of a lion-
that was a wise king?
sitting on his majestic throne
looking after his surroundings
have you ever heard of a gorilla-
that was a government official?
serving for the common order
of the animal kingdom
have you ever heard of a monkey-
that was a published author?
writting in the news column
about this prevailing disorder
i've never seen any of that
thats why i say theres no order-
in the animal world,
and yet
they seem to have more order
than us humans...
ironic really
My dear Monsieur,
Which party,
Do you party with?
I fear it is all
You have done.
Party and rumble.
Your brain has slipped
From your pocket,
And your politics
Are long forgotten,
Sitting in a wine glass.
Some people say man is social animal
He has to act liberal and mix with people
He may be guided by some belief
As it may be providing some relief
The religion is separate thing
It is personal like thing
One should never discuss it in public
Whether idols, special items are called relic
Human mind has escape route
He may kill person or shoot
Yet he may bow down before god
And repent for whatever good or bad
It gives some solace
Person should bear no double face
It gives cruel impression of being bad
The face lines are easily read
So think whatever you feel like
But never express openly your dislike
It angers another person for harsh words
Even raising stick in air frightens the birds
The love is universal
It can not find immediate dismissal
It is reciprocated with equal zeal
As it speaks of good and senses real
There lived a girl called Lovina,
Whose animal-love was great;
Tall, she was and so much lean, ah!
She sang songs for a treat.
She had a sister, with whom she fought,
Right from her child-hood days!
Both were aged, a year’s diff’rence;
And so they fight-her mother says.
She did her home-work, in a short time,
Dreamt while her mother cooks!
In argument, she was so good,
And loved to read animal-books.
Once there fell down, a small Squirrel,
As she stood ‘neath a Mango-tree;
She laid it gently in a box,
The Squirrel-babe was no more free!
She fed the Squirrel, fruit and nut,
And lullabied it to a sleep;
The baby Squirrel loved her much,
Their friendship grew so deep.
She sang to it and fondled it,
And talked to it whenever free;
She kept it cosy, neat and clean;
Her holidays, went off in glee!
One day, the Squirrel fell so ill;
Perhaps, it thought of its mother!
So, you must set the Squirrel free;
Her doctor-uncle advised her.
With Squirrel ill, her heart  turned sad,
Poor Lovina, could not sleep well;
For long, she kept awake and cried;
Was the Squirrel ill ‘cause it fell?
The poor girl prayed, all night and day;
She prayed to God to make it well;
And wished, she could become a fay!
Her life now seemed to look like hell!
She kissed her Squirrel, one more time;
Her Uncle let it up a tree;
The Squirrel squeaked and wagged its tail;
And jumped with joy, away, afree!
Lovina too now wept with joy;
Her pet-Squirrel seemed quite alright!
Her heart leapt like the Squirrel, Boy!
Her Uncle’s words were quite correct.
But Lovina missed her Squirrel;
She visited the Mango-tree;
She hopes to meet her pet some day,
Her friend, never turned up to see!
Ye love your God through animals!
Ye love thy sister first, then else;
Man hath a soul, animals don’t,
“Love thy neighbour, ”the Poet tells!
specially dedicated to my neice Rubina, an animal-lover herself, a true incident in her life!
Blizzards, wildfires, Tsunamis and hurricanes caused no trauma
Nor earthquakes & erupted volcanoes did any catostopic drama
Bam, boom, bang, humanbomb blasted in a jungle causing death
With shuddering, trembling & tearing as a misery struck
Horrible horror, terrible terror, mass violence spread, yuck!
Unleashing death, havoc, riots, & unrest in the absolute mayhem
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Mountains of debris, seas of smoke, dust & rust burst over them
The harmless animals - ducks, chicks, goats're perplexed, o man!
Running, rushing, shouting, yelling, and fainting, they began
Watching at the heap of torn bodies, they forgot to take breath
Wars, massacres, and all forms of evil activities took place
Bullies, rowdies, ruffians, and hooligans ruled without grace
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Committed crimes, passed the buck on others with an attack
Mistreating, abusing, plotting made them hard nuts to crack
Conflicts on complex matters divided animals into entangled boughs
Corruption, injustice, rottenness and bloodshed are common shows
Virtues buried down in the sea and vices rose up to the sky
Barbarism and terrorism inflicted on them, oh it's not a lie
The poor animals lost peace & morals that ruled for centuries
All are caught in chains of iron rules enforced by all countries.
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm; an allegory!
Ferocious animals ran roughshod with bioweapons in Dragon-woods
Chancing to pounce on the lesser animals of neighboring woods
With veto power: Animalia, pigs violated rules in the pigtatorship
nursing venom in their bosom, commited monstrous harms with a whip
They know how to cook goose, take booze, kick those everywhere
And when and how to cast invisible nets to catch fish with a snare.
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Two small goats were quarreling in another animal farm for toys
Some hyenas of powerful forest rushed to spot rising noise
For their howling at high pitch, bleating became unheard song mime
Bovines, bisons, hippos & rhinos joined the feast with a cruel rhyme
Sheep, cattle, cat, deer & hare with tears ran out of the farm
Mass struggles, class clashes, dreadful ruckus ruled in the same farm
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
With the sudden demise of Napoleon: the pigtator, beasts cheered
Camels, zebras, dogs, monkeys, donkeys & ordinary ones reappeared
In ensuing battle for power, brutal lions emerged victorious
Shared power with wild boars, bears, chetahs & foxes atrocious
By defeating all farms, the bestial rules: animalia, are imposed
Ration's cut, spirit is crushed and to danger, beasts are exposed.
Amphigory, focus-refocus-defocus on the animal farm: an allegory!
Soon we got the answer.
Unable to find a man or animal
The king entered the forests
Where only sages lived.
To our ashram came the king
With his full retinue in attendance
Father did not break his silence
Mother fainted in his arms.
Asked the king, 'you have three sons
All bearing the sacred marks
Written in the holy scriptures
that qualify them as yajnapasu.
Sell me one; exchange for a thousand cows
For the land will perish otherwise
I will be obliged to you for ever
And you shall earn a place in the heavens.'
In full tears father said, 'I have
No sons to sell, even if it were
For sacrifice In the altar of Gods
My heaven is where my family is.'
But king and his sages preached
Of his duty to the king and Gods
But nobody dared to ask, 'what about Your son,
O king, is he not suited for the sacrifice? '
Finally father said, 'my elder son
Is dear to me, whom I shall not sell'
Mother, provoked, spoke 'so is Sunaka
The youngest one, to me, shall not be sold.
........That left me, the middle one.
I spoke, 'When in fear of danger, child
Looks for protection from parents.
When they disown, the king shall protect him.
Now, disowned by all, whom shall I appeal to? '
........I did not want to die.
Let God turn his merciful eyes
To make successful our tries
We shall always thank for mercy
From heart and shall not act dirty
It is difficult to transform
As weaknesses are inborn
We take birth with jealousy
Always look around for luxury
Influential and rich people
Face no difficulty or trouble
The children are brought up with care
Poor children stay neglected as they are
He is there to look after
Pardon any sin that is often practiced here
Make path smooth even for sinner
He is always here to offer
We are thankless animal
Always claim pardon with easy dismissal
We get unnatural happiness from fruitless drive
Keep no pure aim to sustain and survive
Still at an end time
We openly opine
Curse for wrong done in past
Pray for reprieve at the last
I.
Those human beings
who remain connected
to their inner animal:
loving it, nurturing it, freeing it
in the heart of Nature,
they are becoming less animal
and more humane;
Those who suppress the animal:
neglecting it, keeping it sleeping,
when it awakes, the human being
becomes a monster.
II.
Some can perceive with different eyes,
for they are not connected to
the power of biological love:
supremely imposed upon us—
to survive!
Survive, and perish
with not enough knowledge
of our reason for existence:
too short is the human life-span,
too limited are our senses
to comprehend
an ancient Universe!
Is it legal for me
To call myself an animal?
Whilst human is what I try to be
For the animal in me
Is transparent to see
If I get scared I plea or flee
Sometimes I show bravery like a lion
With nerves of steel made of iron
Sometimes I give off a scent
In the heat of the moment
As a woman I have my season
When you can capture me on the heat
Till today, I do not understand the reason
Why I hunt then, like an animal hunting for its meat
The animal in me is confused
The human in me is amused
Is it legal for me
To call myself an animal?
Without being a cannibal
I know my right from wrong
Taught by my guardians tongue
But even an animal knows where it belongs
Whilst trained with the right punishment song
The fact is actual
I am an animal
Being human is my identity
While the only difference of reality;
Is the language! Ah ha! The language!
The language in which we all engage
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
The world which was once beautiful,
Is now a dark blank scary place,
The memories which were treasured as life giving,
Are now haunting ghosts of the past,
Pushing me to sleepless nights.
Every day and  every moment,
I spent with you,
Are carved in my heart.
You said time will heal everything,
But it seems to carve those memories deeper.
Those eyes which were filled with love once,
Are now filled with hatred,
Since they saw that animal,
Which lurks within me
The Animal Planet
May 3, 2020
The animal planet
Wonderfully
Creator has created
Everywhere rightly
Things are set.
Thunder roars in the distance
His sense of loneliness deepens
He wishes he could feel emotion
But Animal knows only instinct
He senses the approaching storm
And with it, the wrath of God
The animal tries to escape from his fury
But instead
Is consumed in his own living hell
The Animal cannot stop
The rampage
It tries to survive
But cannot
It wants to end its hunger
But cannot catch its prey
It tries for love
But feels none
The clouds start to swell
With the sorrow of a thousand tears
She cries
She feels the mist in her heart
The ground at her feet
Her beauty is unmatched
But it will not save her
She turns around
And sees the storm coming
She knows she cannot escape her destiny
For she is destiny's child
The clouds roll over her
They embrace her
Consume her
From the darkness of the storm
The animal appears before her
And like the sun in all its fiery fury
He pulls her into the storm
Hoping to end the hunger
That consumes him
Into the darkness they go
Forevermore
They sink lower and lower
Forevermore
To the darkest region of the abyss
Forevermore
Into the heart of the storm
Forevermore
Their fates collide
Nevermore
The animal consumes her in his wrath
Sorrow meets with anger
She becomes part of the creature
Neither living, nor dying
The animal knows by instinct
The storm is almost over
He knows and embraces it
Lightning flares in the sky
As the Animal begins to die
A new life is created in the heavens
Dampening the wrath of God
The Animal senses his own destruction
And finally starts to feel her emotion
Her sorrow and his anger fuse
The beast beats upon the storm
Backing anger into a corner
The Animal beats upon the storm
And starts to fade
The creature beats upon the storm
And the clouds shatter into rain
The boy and her soul within beat upon
The last remaining tendrils of the storm
And reveal to the world
A light brighter than the fury of
"The Animal"
There is an animal, with ferocious
Eyes, tamed and beautiful;
Sturdy hands filled with strength
The body of a predator skilled
Yet he hides it, a mask,
Covers him and his instinct.
To let him mingle with the rest,
For the others are different than he
The dark animal is none other but me.
The feel to commit what is wrong
Burns with passion inside the brute.
Steal and kill and hurt and fulfill,
The condemned thirst.
The wrong is always right it thinks
What's the harm in wrong doing?
As long as it doesn't kill you
Be the brute, it tells you.
The dark animal is none other but me.
Ah! What lust for blood and bones?
To grind and ravish and consume,
The bones and blood of the one
Who is mine. To conquer and
Dominate and protect
Like an animal but I am a man?
Yet the instinct lives and grows,
To find the one who will be only mine.
The dark animal is none other but me.
I loose myself to the animal at times
And doom embraces me all the while,
Is there no one who can save me?
No, the animal laughs menacingly
I am done with my life
I do not want to live with the wildness inside of me
The gun points towards me
Yet I manage to survive
For I am too scared for my life.
It is precious to the animal
Equally treasured by me.
The dark animal is none other but me.
I try hard to control my beast,
Which craves to hurt and to kill,
The unjust, the cruel and the innocent!
At times for fun, at times to punish.
It bathes in the cries of the tortured,
And smiles when he sees their anguished faces.
It moves my limbs without my control,
And the next second, I'm me staring
At a face unknown, I try hard to win against.
The dark animal is none other but me.
The animal does not diminish
But grows and slowly I am disappearing.
I fight and fight but he is unnaturally strong
I cannot remove it, cannot throw it,
It is a part of me, which is right at times
And wrong too. I make agreements
With this beast to act when I want it to,
The altering animal is none other but me.
I work, I fight, I control, I rule
The animal lives inside me.
I have tamed the animal a little
The lust for blood and bones remain,
The mask hides his true nature,
The urge to kill has lessened,
A sense of morality is infested.
The animal is becoming into me
My part coming back to me.
The restrained animal is none other but me.
I’m the only elephant in Phnomh Penh
No more of my kind you’ll see
My wife ran off from the killing fields
She’s an animal refugee
I’m a Mekong crocodile from Vietnam
When the napalm scorched each tree
I swam to Laos at dead of night
I’m an animal refugee
I’m a slithery snake from Angkor Wat
Where the mountains churned the sea
Now tourists squat in my habitat
I’m an animal refugee
When people’s homes are ripped apart
There’s appeals on world TV
No one saves us. There’s little fuss
For an animal refugee.
No earthquake, no thunder, no volcanic eruption
Or even there was not any of other natural calamities,
A sudden loud sound broke out all through the bush
With whizzing, shuddering, cracking, tearing, echoing,
Fear, horror, dark, terror, misery and ill spirits spread
Committing destruction, death in a horrible situation,
Dust, dirt, smoke coiled over the whole atmosphere
The harmless animals are quite perplexed, helpless
They began crying, shouting, running, rushing, fainting
Seeing reddish spots and innumerable torn bodies.
They blamed one another for committing the crime,
Brawling, harming, plotting hardened in them,
A long conflict complicated and awful tangled
Loosing the worms of crime, injustice and corruption;
The virtues sunk and the vices rose everywhere
Envious state of barbarism, terrorism inflicted on them;
The poor animals lost peace and principles they had
Centuries curses engulfed all what was out of thought.
Ferocious animals are in the neighboring big forest
Who always wait for chances on the helpless ones;
They do not care for hesitating in violating terms
Committing all sorts of hyenas and monstrous harms;
They know how and when to cook poisonous broth
And how to throw an unseen net to catch the rest.
Once some cats were quarrelling nearby the bush
Some wild dogs of the big forest made an instant rush,
For repeated barking mewing was beyond of hearing
Foxes and monkeys also joined within a quick haste
Crows, kites and vultures started crowing for the feast
What more, rats and mice left the bush being frightened
Dreadful tumult, commotion, collision, conflict took place
At the arrival of buffalos, deer, bears, wolfs and hyenas;
But with sudden and unexpected appearance of
Jaguars, lions, tigers and some bears' rejoining to them
Returning from the herd of small and weak beasts
Consisting boars, wolfs, hyenas, wild pigs and dogs,
Though wolfs and hyenas started loudly barking
But came to no use and got chased, retreated soon,
All the surroundings became instant silent and isolated,
All went away murmuring without more looking back.
The victorious were excited having got all easy victory,
But they found troubles to enjoy the whole empire lonely,
So there were roaring, shouting, blustering, threatening
Of occupying empire, power, lordship and over lordship,
Finally, all the bestial rules with ‘Might is right' were
Established in rules and regulations less animal state.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza | 6 October, 2016
Here goes the tale
A man went to jungle
Unzipped and started to pee
Animals came and saw with glee
And wonder! Why he cut off the tail
Though he never threw the beast and remained an animal!
The Bloodthirsty More Than Ferocious Animal (Haiku Poetry)
January 28, 2020
▌
The bloodthirsty are
Sucking blood of human through,
Killing, massacring.
▌▌
They are ferocious
Lions, tigers, bears, hyenas
Blood sucking they go.
▌▌▌
They are always so!
Suck blood and laugh ho, ho, ho
Humans tremble, oh!
Like the easily startled deer,
A horse is prone to fear.
Millennia of being prey,
Has built an instinct to run away.
I'm sure you can understand,
That courage and fear go hand in hand.
In 2011, Tonk the stallion,
Was worthy of a medallion.
He ignored the call to flight,
And chose to stay and fight,
When a 700 pound grizzly bear,
Appeared out of thin air,
And chased an 8 year old boy,
His father's pride and joy.
Tonk's rider was Erin Bolster,
She had no weapon or holster.
Her last name means 'to support',
But you never would have thought,
She'd look the bear in the eye,
And let out a valiant cry,
"I'll not stand by,
And watch this boy die! "
Now Tonk was 18 hands in height,
An angel dressed in white.
He chose to stay and fight,
When other horses took flight.
Three times this brave pair,
Charged headlong at the bear,
Staring into his fearsome face,
Until at last he left the place.
Afterwards Tonk could not stop shaking,
He'd been so close to breaking.
Those scary looking jaws,
And mighty sharp claws,
Had made him so upset,
His coat was drenched with sweat.
So the bravest animal I know,
Is similar to a nervous doe,
It's a white Percheron draft horse,
Called Tonk of course!
David Letterman let the world know,
When our heroes appeared on his show.
This gentle giant made so many smile,
And forget their worries for quite a while.
we are never
quite immediately aware of what we know
deep in our bones and consciousness
it creeps slowly into little clues
details that finally come to mind and in the considering
of the jigsaw puzzle
premonitions that had escaped us but now
reveal their colors in the borders of
the whole image how we languish
between them and when the truth arrives with us
clutching at the falsehoods in the trick
routes of the mind not knowing that
a falseness can just as soon in another
light can seem to be the truth
but with all the frazzling of nerves and worry
and dementia and discontent one should
realize it is a waste of time deciding what
is true and not although with most
thinking beings it is not possible to escape that
we do so love to worry about ourselves
scared stiff at being outwitted being
laughed at for being such quickly gentle fools
of our imagination
and the fantasies we fill our empty lives with
even my laughter scares me sometimes like
it emanates from some deep euphoric cave
some ancient time complete with mythical dragons
meanwhile desertwise
like a cloud the camel floats
Animals don't lie,
So Why should we?
'Because we're very Sly,
And want everything for Free!
Conclusion,
Always fooling others,
Does not make us better brothers.
The nocturnal animal who feels alright to move
Into the middle of nowhere,
Underneath the bridge, the canal the cradle
For the lost bicycle—
As words ship out for other loves,
As I think about drinking again—Florida rum
In the sunlight of this new cold front—
My pregnant wife wants to sleep,
Like a fairy in the forest—
As I dream of a muse that doesn't exist—
My emotions becoming lost
In the cantankerous graveyards that look like
The rest of my relatives—
Until the simple thoughts beckon and all at once
Nothing has to be given or taken anymore.
To Whom …..at US Postal Service …….it may concern:
At a board meeting I was recently troubled to learn …..
that you've gotten credit for creating 'Snail Mail'.
Please cease and desist, …..'or else'……, without fail!
Your carriers are much larger than those we've got,
but to claim YOU created Snail Mail is a dirty shot ……at ….
our employees of the USSPS, human sir or human madam.
Why, we've been in the delivery service MUCH longer. Since Adam!
[USSPS is, of course, the United Snail and Slug Postal Service.]
Yes, we snails DO know about your Bible garden story.
One of our scholars read the book. [Some parts were gory.]
She, the scholar, munched her way from cover to cover,
and that night, in a dream, she claims she did discover …..
that she remembered each word!
You have trucks, and planes for Express mail shipment.
We snails have no such fancy and expensive equipment,
but WE deliver 365 days a year, to be sure, rain OR shine.
We deliver to high peaks and the bottom of at least one mine.
Oh, yes, we have perfected the REAL Snail Mail!
We may be slow, but our carriers RARELY do fail ……..
to deliver! !
And (with birds and snakes wanting a snack)  that's no small feat.
WE created THE real Snail Mail. That I WILL repeat:
WE DID IT FIRST, and the name belongs to USSPS. Yes, US!
NOT USPS, but US, the snails and slugs! ! There need be no fuss......
…….about this little misunderstanding. BUT I caution you:
We've outstanding staff attorneys, and......… NOT JUST A FEW!
Sincerely,
Slippery Sam Slug
Chief Legal Counsel
United Snail and Slug Postal Service
(December 14,  2015)
In order to make creation right,
in the beginning God said:
"Let there be light."
He said it like a man.
He didn't think it like a dog.
An animal that can speak is God-like.
The name of that animal is man.
Why won't the acclaimedly intelligent beings of the animal world,
Called the humans,
Eventually understand the language of their fellow creatures?
What for example the message of two cute icebears were,
Who, amidst the dreadful melting away,
From underneath their bear feet, of
Their ice-shaped habitat on the Polar Cap,
Experienced already for over two generations,
Took to such great pains as to
Embarking on a hazardous
Kind of last-chance kamikaze trip of
Hundreds of kilometers,
Partially swimming, partially afloat
Atop drifting ice blocks,
All the way from Greenland to Iceland:
'It is you, you presumptive two-legged lords on the planet,
None else but
You,
With these magic mirrors of your killer-blink-eye hanging
Around your proud necks,
Who art guilty of the reckless diminishing of
Our home in the polar ice!
Since you are ultimately bound for extinguishing us altogether:
Shorten this painful life now,
Shoot, if you can, now! '!
People's lives are led in this magic mix of our world,
So you say,
By intuitions from consequences
We choose to involuntarily take part in,
And you say,
For a major part
People's lives are led
By all these fair & unfair provisions of Providence
We inevitably take shares in,
And by intimidations and by acts of aggression for self-maintenance,
So you say, our lives are led, too.
I once asked a modern Socrates about this thing,
One bald-headed bold-hatted clear-minded thinker
With a prickly animal instinct in his head -
One also you might have met already once
In a tiny far away forest ville.
He remarked to my questions:
'But where is the will of the animal in this concept? '
Well, well  well, I said, and am pondering now:
'What makes any whale suffer to go back up the Thames again, after a lapse of 92 turns of the sun? '
I now feel the winds of the will in modern scientific man
When he spreads
'The life of a whale wistfully straying in people's waterways
Must be that of one misled! '
And this is a true story about
A baffling co-operation of
Three wild elephants in a remote
Village in India.
Whatever their reasons for doing that,
This is what they've done:
After nightfall, when all the villagers
Were already in their houses,
The Elephants marched up to the house of the wealthiest
Family of the village,
One of them posting itself at the main door,
The other at the back door,
While their third colleague stomped right
Through the door into the house,
To be then,
To the total bewilderment of the onlooking family members,
Raiding the house's food supply, carrying off
Sacks of rice along with vegetables,
Without but having hurt anyone of the family,
But having made sure
That none of them could have
Fled from that scene of terror,
Most probably an act of vengeance
On part of the animals
For being terrorized by the locals themselves,
Such as by denuding their forests.
The animals in the zoo must be taken care of,
but the Zoo Director who does it is not an animal.
He's studied the ideal diet of every species,
but he doesn't dine on hay or raw, red meat.
The animals roar or pace all day in their cages.
He too stays at the zoo, in his office,
but he has the run of the compound,
and at night goes home.
To sum up all, I'm old -- and that's
A fact the years decide;
It is a common thing with cats
And not a thing to hide.
But to feel what it is -- how kind
How true to love and law
For this you must be quite resigned
And not avoid its paw.
It does not come as reckless foe
A shrinking prey to take,
But with soft footstep that we know
By comfort in its wake.
Though it spoils something -- that is true,
Which we must learn to lack
And takes alike from me and you
What never does come back.
It caters for our failing strength
In many a dainty scrap,
And gently lays us at our length
In some secluded lap.
It may bless you -- (I think it should)
Beyond what I make out,
With things perhaps too great and good
For cats to talk about.
Since I find in it blessing free
From all it can destroy,
And so its progress is to me
A miracle of joy.
But my look out to occupy
And make the most of that.
You must be quite as old as I,
If not yourself a Cat!
Change of animal nature to human nature is needed
To aim for changing to divine nature finally sure!
Social animal to social human is what one needs to
Change first before one tries to become a divine one!
All religions preach about peace, love and divinity;
A religion may change a brute or an animal being into
A divine being, but it's not possible before one first
Turns into a human being imbibing tolerance, patience!
After one is well soaked in kindness, gentleness and
Love only, one can be a perfect human being before
One transforms into a divine being by mediation and
Mysticism of divinity in communion with Nature ever!
Sans becoming a human being, how can one ever become
A divine being even by religion sans first by human
Culture that prunes one to have best thoughts, best
Speech and best deeds as way of world life forever.?
Love is the most beautiful thing alive..
You might not think its alive, but it is.
Love is a living parasite who can make huge changes in their victim.
To notice infection you feel it, for example if your heart feels like clouds
and if your feets feel like they want to take air.
Love is known for its wonderful gift of corrupting humans.
It colour is red and blue. Soft colours that makes you calm.
There is no cure but as it is alive it also dies.
Man is basically wicked animal
No one can see his ideas even if naked
Either before computer or before sky
He will struggle with his mind and try
His brain is always matching with speed
So much eagerness with lots of greed
No stoppage over its planning and thoughts
Mind struggles and so many ways are sought
It will never satisfy his ego
Even if it requires to forgo
That is the mentality and real fact
It requires little restrain to act
It is good to have appetite for knowledge
It may then give enough time for leverage
With dedication and efforts it can give result
Only inner urge should be controlled and remain well built
The universe and nature has been unexplored
It is like digging of well in small hole of the bore
It may open earth's belt to give enough of water
That is all we want for need to cater
She looks straight into my brown eyes
And creeps so very near
She pulls my hair so very hard
That I say 'oh my dear! '
She crawls about and comes to me
And then she licks my face
Then she sits so quietly and
In her mouth is a lace
She makes noises when she drinks milk
She doesn’t like her food
And  when it comes to laughing
She is very very good
In Hindi we call this baby
Ek chamakta taara*
And the baby who we call that
is my cousin Zaara.
A shining star*
(she is one today.25/03/2007)
All babies are wonderful
When I see them I let out a squeak
But here is one baby that I know
Who is totally unique
He is my cousin Tauzi
And he is six months old
He has interest in everything
He snatches at chains of gold
He is the only baby I think
Who caresses you back
When people look at him they say
“He is an angelic pack”
He rubs his face onto yours
And he tickles your ears
His smile makes you feel happy
Especially, when you are in tears
He knows when you are leaving
And he’ll look with his sad little eyes
When you give him a last look and go
You want to look once, then twice, then thrice
But I never get to hold him
They snatch away the little lad
People say I am too young
To hold him, which makes me sad
When you want to kiss him
He understands and comes closer like a magnet
He is one of the cutest babies
Is on which I can surely bet
He is just irresistible
I want to see him again soon
Hey you know what, mom says
He is coming this afternoon!
We are waiting for the baby
To smile its sweet smiles
We are waiting for the baby
To touch the nursery tiles
We are waiting for the baby
To say its first word
We are waiting for the baby
To taste its first curd
we are waiting for the baby
To eat its first snack
We are waiting for the baby
To give us all a smack!
Her smile lit the night
Her laughter inspired angels
To sing and dance
Dorothy
Pregnant again she confides in a friend.
No where to go, no one will take her in.
Walking the streets in the dark of night.
Hiding in alleys, trying to stay out of sight.
She’s hurting and frustrated with  pain,
anxiety hits over and over again.
What will become of this new born babe,
a decision certainly must  be made.
Crack, heroin, marijuana, cocaine,
what will happen to the poor baby’s brain.
She carries this baby while drinking beer,
no one stops her, nobody cares.
In the eight month baby comes early,
a cute baby boy with hair very curly.
Doctor’s stand by, but baby won’t cry.
He looks at Mom, please say goodbye.
Written:  June 11,2007
As a drenched, drowned bee
Hangs numb and heavy from a bending flower,
So clings to me
My baby, her brown hair brushed with wet tears
And laid against her cheek;
Her soft white legs hanging heavily over my arm
Swinging heavily to my movements as I walk.
My sleeping baby hangs upon my life,
Like a burden she hangs on me.
She has always seemed so light,
But now she is wet with tears and numb with pain
Even her floating hair sinks heavily,
Reaching downwards;
As the wings of a drenched, drowned bee
Are a heaviness, and a weariness.
A baby boy is born, a sweet, innocent black baby boy.
comes to this world as a –child—not a toy.
His needs will be different for he is a black male.
Proper nurturing is crucial to keep him out of jail.
He must know society considers him a stereotype.
Lazy, drug user, sexually motivated, full of hype.
Speak gently with loving words for him to hear
Teach him to be strong, yet gentle enough to shed a tear
Put a smile on his face with your warm embrace.
Respect him, love him, teach him to have good taste
What you see is what you get in your baby boys eyes
He may follow in your footsteps, don’t be surprised
Teach him with patience, no need for raised voices
He must know how to make all the right choices
The word “no” is prevalent when raising a boy.
He must know what it means when he seeks a certain joy.
A mama is put on a pedestal from a male perspective
when she falls, it shatters his number one directive
Let him know on a daily basis that he is your special joy
a gift from God, a blessed black baby boy.
I knew that a baby was hid in that house,
Though I saw no cradle and heard no cry;
But the husband was tip-toeing 'round like a mouse,
And the good wife was humming a soft lullaby;
And there was a look on the face of the mother,
That I knew could mean only one thing, and no other.
The mother, I said to myself, for I knew
That the woman before me was certainly that;
And there lay in a corner a tiny cloth shoe,
And I saw on a stand such a wee little hat;
And the beard of the husband said, plain as could be,
'Two fat chubby hands have been tugging at me.'
And he took from his pocket a gay picture-book,
And a dog that could bark, if you pulled on a string;
And the wife laid them up with such a pleased look;
And I said to myself, 'There is no other thing
But a babe that could bring about all this, and so
That one thing is in hiding somewhere, I know.'
I stayed but a moment, and saw nothing more,
And heard not a sound, yet I know I was right;
What else could the shoe mean that lay on the floor,
The book and the toy, and the faces so bright;
And what made the husband as still as a mouse?
I am sure, very sure, there's a babe in that house.
A baby lay forgotten
In the womb of the dead mother;
Still breathing the last few breathes
The remaining of the mother’s last air.
The ravaging war has killed the breast to feed
Leaving the unfulfilled infant trapped alone
Unless someone do something to support the life
The baby’s scream will never be heard across the stream.
Amidst of the rattling guns and battling man
There lies the woman with her hand holding the tummy
Lying still on the ground colored red
The last wish was only to protect the life within the womb.
Until a medic see the predicament
The baby's last breath was almost unheard within
Quickly the life saving team rushed
Knowing they have nothing but only the grace of god.
Each said their prayers while cesarean performed
Hoping desperately to hear a little voice loud and clear
To add music to the ransacked villages made unto a battlefield
Due to atrocities blinded the humanity.
Suddenly, in the middle of the rattling machine guns
And blaring sounds of grenade explosions
The surgeon proudly lifted the newborn high
Poking his fingers gently to clear the throat
So, the baby will one day stand tall to speak with right choice.
Thank god, the whole team prayed
A little late, we wouldn’t have seen another life
Imbued with hope in the middle of the battle
The medical van paved through the war
Bringing news to others around
That today in the battlefield
A baby was born to a dead mother
To tell the world, that life is still far from death.
When the bare feet of the baby beat across the grass
The little white feet nod like white flowers in the wind,
They poise and run like ripples lapping across the water;
And the sight of their white play among the grass
Is like a little robin’s song, winsome,
Or as two white butterflies settle in the cup of one flower
For a moment, then away with a flutter of wings.
I long for the baby to wander hither to me
Like a wind-shadow wandering over the water,
So that she can stand on my knee
With her little bare feet in my hands,
Cool like syringa buds,
Firm and silken like pink young peony flowers.
This is my First Baby
Even though I'm still young
My life is not really stopping
Even if I have done wrong.
There's a lot of things in life,
That I may not have seen or done.
Even though a child is being born,
My life must still go on.
My child will come first in my new life,
School, Education, to prepare for it a home,
Friends and relatives may want me to come and go,
Many times must I tell them I have to stay home.
I don't want to burden my parents
This responsibility is now my own
Even though I am still young
Just think, someday I will be grown.
It's not my mother or father's fault
As a child I knew right from wrong
I will love and cherish every moment
Because someday it will have a life of its own.
Acts on me my baby
Don’t let yourself stand there
I am here for you
My mind is blank at the moment
I have close my eyes
I am here so you can act on me
Don’t let my imagination runs wild
I don’t have an energy left for that kind of exercise
Please my baby
Acts on me now
I am here for you
And I am waiting for you to act on me my baby.
www.frederickyamusangie.org.uk
Baby sleeping now
at her breast
self satisfied grin
upon her face.
She calls her husband over
complains of how
heavy & hurting
her breasts
are
She offers him
a breast
and gently he
suckles her
as demanding
as any baby
weeping with milk
she weeps with pleasure
as her left nipple
stiffens.
A little baby girl screams out her silent cry
Knowing that her mother may chose for her to die
Abortion is a word she never wants to hear
As she gasps in her mother's womb so still and filled with fear.
A little baby girl screams out her silent cry
While thinking to herself and wondering why
How could her mother have chose this terrible choice
Does she not hear her baby crying with her tiny little voice?
'I tell her to be strong and not to let me go,
I love her so mush, and I just want her to know.
Why doesn't she listen to me? Doesn't she care?
It's my life too! What if I want to live, it's just not fair! '
A little baby girl screams out her silent cry
And much too soon among the angels she will fly
Her life is ending, even though it has truly not begun
Due to her mother's choice she will miss out on everything fun.
A little baby girl screams out her silent cry
Now only after a few weeks of life it's her time to die
Her life is slowly ending as her limbs are ripped apart
How could people get an abortion, don't they have a heart?
A little baby girl no longer screams out her silent cry
She now resides in heaven so high up in the sky
She sweetly smiles down at her mother and bows her head
As she sees her praying for forgiveness at the foot of her bed
This is your mother’s kiss, my child!
Don’t you worry: things will be fine;
Just eat and sleep and play awhile.
You’ve had your birth on lovely earth;
You’ll take your time to grow up tall;
Soon you’ll become a long-necked beast!
Wait till your legs get strength to stand;
Wait till your bones can make you walk;
Wait till your mouth reaches tree-leaves!
And when you’re tall as your mother,
And children look at you in awe,
You will feel truly, very great!
This is your mother’s kiss of love;
This is your mother’s kiss of pride;
For when you match her neck and stride,
You must bend low too, from above!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 22-9-2005
Beautiful as a rose
Lovely as a tune,
I meet you up close
In the first days of June;
Baby blue eyes
Turning on blue skies,
What have you seen?
Where have you been?
I was turned on
In the early of spring,
With the summer sun
The heart would sing:
'Love is so true
When its all new,
Sweet as the days
It longs for and plays'.
Love is like trust
That comes and goes,
Falling down star dust
That for a time glows;
Longings and beauties
Imprisons and frees,
Inside a young heart
Right from the start.
Night and young days
We must go on,
Tide's turning ways
Almost nearly done;
The garden's so young
With all what we long,
The seeds in the earth
There in their first birth.
Baby blue eyes
Beginning to glow,
After winter's goodbyes
And old frosty snow;
I feel so lucky
With what comes to be,
Knowing new life
When the colors arrive.
They are the Baby Boomers
Born to reunited families
Split by the war
A baby boom
Felt around the World
They were to change humanity
1955 started a revolution
Their parent's music was boring
New music was jumping
They turned up the volume
Hips started to gyrate
Rock 'n' Roll was Satan's music
Slick hair swivelling hips
A southern boy from Tennessee
Was every father's nightmare
He was everywhere
Records TV and movies
Elvis Presley was king
Baby boomers and their music
Changed the world forever
Children of the revolution
Starting to ask why
Growing beards and long hair
All roads led to San Francisco
Sex drugs and rock 'n' roll
Boomers were very different
Never to get old
Their parents always looked old
The World changed for them
Catering their every need
Trying not to sound like parents
Boomers invented living together
Kids without weddings
Naming them Sky and Summer
Maturing into jobs
Responsible and hard working
Spoilt their kids with
Stereos TVs and phones
Most forgot the sixties
Short hair suit and tie
Making a corporate fortune
To support the new lifestyle
Don't have to grow old
First generation not to
Women wear girls clothes
Fathers and sons t shirt and jeans
Radio stations play their music
Discos for the over 40's
Sports activities and clothes
Have aged with them
Once sport finished at thirty
Now we have over sixty's sport
Never too old for anything
Boomer will always be young
Baby boy, you’re all I ever think about.
Your there, stuck in my head
I see you… I see you in my mind
And I feel you in my heart
Baby boy, I need you here by my side
Thinking about you just isn’t enough
I want you… Not only in my dreams
But in reality as well
Baby boy, Come to me
Make love to me
Stay here… with me
Baby boy, open up your heart to me
Tell me you feel for me,
The way I feel for you
Let me know that you love me, too
Baby boy…
I’m still waiting..
Waiting here for you…
My baby brother falls a lot.
I see how sad he feels.
Why don't baby brothers
come with training wheels?
He's fast asleep.  See how, O Wife,
Night's finger on the lip of life
Bids whist the tongue, so prattle-rife,
Of busy Baby Charley.
One arm stretched backward round his head,
Five little toes from out the bed
Just showing, like five rosebuds red,
-- So slumbers Baby Charley.
Heaven-lights, I know, are beaming through
Those lucent eyelids, veined with blue,
That shut away from mortal view
Large eyes of Baby Charley.
O sweet Sleep-Angel, throned now
On the round glory of his brow,
Wave thy wing and waft my vow
Breathed over Baby Charley.
I vow that my heart, when death is nigh,
Shall never shiver with a sigh
For act of hand or tongue or eye
That wronged my Baby Charley!
A baby soon will sleep in that crib
He will have lots of dreams
Soon you will have those sweet dreams baby
And in your dreams you will be able to count the ships baby
While the angels come down from haven and watch out for you baby
That crib will be the place where he will go to sleep
That crib belongs to him
That crib is an old one
It is one of a kind
You don’t see it anymore
That crib will be nice and warm for him to sleep in the winter nights
And cool in the summer for him to sleep
My mother gave me a baby doll,
And said it was my own to keep,
But something is wrong with this doll,
Because it ''baahs'' like a sheep,
I told my mother what it''s doing,
And she said not to worry,
Then I went back up to my room,
And my baby doll was furry,
I looked at it closely,
And what comes to my surprise,
The baby doll, is not a baby doll no more,
It''s a sheep with kitty eyes.
The next day my dad came home with a doll,
He said it is mine to keep,
Something was wrong with this doll,
It didnt look the same, As all the other dolls I see,
Because it''s cry was pretty lame,
And it had no clothes to wear,
But I put it underneath my bed,
and I still think it''s under there.
Large Baby eyes smiling joyfully at me,
Baby eyes as brown as can be.
Two deep pools most innocent and bright,
To me are symbols of sheer delight.
May I greet you every single day?
For you are sunshine on my way.
Other people see you smile so sweet,
All are happier when you they meet.
Eyes are the windows to the soul,
No difficulties for you reaching your goal.
So sweet baby go on life's way,
Those Baby eyes have much to say.
Everything has turned upside down,
but when ur around,
all my fears r gone,
I would wake up at 3 in the morning just to talk to u,
that’s how madly im in love with u,
ur what I love most about my day,
when ur gone my sky turns grey,
hoping that you’ll return to me in some way,
everyday I pray at night that ur gonna be mines for valentine,
I don’t know why but ur always on my mind,
as much as u push me way,
I will still be there by ur side,
I just want u to know how much I love u so,
if only u could see it through my eyes
baby u will find that
what I’ve told u
are not just a bunch of lies
baby u got to no the I love u so,
I need u near
need u close,
u make all the clouds go away on a grey day
baby u r what I need and want,
baby if only u could hear me say
baby please don’t leave,
baby I love u I need u,
ur what I live for,
if only u see through my eyes
then u will find that I haven’t done wrong,
all I did was love u strong,
baby u gotta hear me when I say
baby come back to me I don’t care in what way just come bac,
baby u just gotta no I need u so
He was such a tiny little man
Held in his mothers arms
Just starting life’s huge journey
Developing some early charms
The world so wide with wonder
So much there was to see
A family that gathered ‘round
Loving him so tremendously
The country was the perfect place
For the baby to discover and grow
Animals to tend and pet
And he learned to love them so
A sister and a brother too
Were amidst his world as well
He was close to his grand parents
More to catch him when he fell
Each and every experience
Added to his changing life
Eventually getting married
And adding some kids and wife
But looking back at pictures now
It’s hard to realize how strong
This man would become over time
Starting out as Baby John!
Each day I listen to my heart
Mapping a path for our possible love start
My head speaks and so does my heart
Feelings of mine for you wish not to depart
With millions of gadgets
Spread across the planet
None of them can measure the way
My heart feels about you each day
Baby, Listen to my heart!
Will you be my sweetheart?
Baby, Listen to my heart!
Our heartbeats shouldn't be beating apart
Heart to heart
We can build us bridges of love
Heart to heart
We can sing our songs of love
Heart to heart
We can trust in this thing called love
Each day I listen to my heart
My heart has constantly infinitely spoken
Each time it beats for you a work of art
Only you can heal parts that are broken
Baby, Listen to my heart!
Will you be my sweetheart?
Listen to its instant drumming
Glisten to its constant humming
Baby, Listen to my heart!
Our heartbeats shouldn't be beating apart
(2007) - Copyright Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
so there you are in
your pram or kiddikarria
nicely tucked up,
being talked to in that
singysongylingo
that grown-ups grow down to
when that tingylingy, like
that stoopid thingy
dangling on your cot that
doesn't do anything else
goes hissdidahdidah
and she switches her attention instantly
from who's mommy's little treasure then,
sticks this silver thing to block her ear
and starts talking to thin air
it must be either the fairies
who don't seem to be very helpful -
'oh darling don't say you forgot I
asked you specially...'
or she's going doolally and
the adult world's not
what it's cracked up to be
I'll give her two minutes no more
or else
Baby Love, walk with me
Hold my hand
Set me free
With a single red rose, under a tree
I love your big beautiful blue eyes
And the way you wriggle those thighs
In the middle of the night I endlessly fantasize
Kisses, touches, moans - my dream comprises
Baby Love, walk with me
Please!
Baby Love, talk to me
Please!
Every single elegant day
Your centre stage is on display
In my own loving Romeo play
They say dreams do come true
Will you appear suddenly out of the blue?
I love your long beautiful smile
Long and beautiful as the River Nile
Your mesmerizing face tells many a tale
With successful conquests I wish to hail
When is it time for us to set sail
Baby Love, walk with me
Please!
Rock me gently
Please!
I love your dazzling strong hands
Kisses, laughter, adventures - the whole brand
It is this love of you I softly demand
Your eyes speak, they understand
Walk with me
Please!
Baby Love, walk with me
Kiss my lips
As I close my eyes
Unlock my heart with your key
Set me free
With a single red rose, under a tree
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
She was a precious little angel that
Came into their lives one wonderful day
Nothing could have made them happier
Or delighted that she came to stay
Beautiful sweet smile on her face
That came almost immediately
Their hearts were filled to the brim
Their lives changed so drastically
Her family all surrounded her
For much love and pride they felt
They couldn’t get enough of her
As in their arms this child they held
And as she grew and changed
Her personality was so unique
Her talent for drawing obvious
Their praise she loved to receive
And of course their love continues
Though she’s not Baby Marcia anymore
But their lives changed very quickly
When she came through their front door!
Baby sweet, baby mine,
King of Kings, so sublime,
Born for us on Christmas Day,
Master of all that you'll survey.
Baby dear, baby fine,
Lord of Lords, so divine,
Your birth we celebrate, and share
Our lives with you, as we say your prayer.
Baby loved, baby shine,
God, Creator, we are thine,
Be our Father, dwell within
Our souls, and let our praise begin.
©   Ernestine Northover
O precious newborn in our home
Gift of God's great love divine.
May caring angels smile on you
Baby mine, O Baby mine.
Then as you walk the path of life,
May God's grace on your path shine
and keep you ever in his will
Baby mine, O, Baby mine.
We were driving along the bay
My girl friend really needed a pee
I said go over that way
Squat down behind that tree
Coming form a very good family
Baby had never done it before
But she needed to go so badly
She nearly did it on the car floor
As she came out for behind the big tree
And stood in the long grass looking free
My darling looked so beautiful
Still pulling her pants up after the pee
All refreshed and joyful
She ran to hold me
Darling seemed so grateful
And all she did was pee
Out come two tiny feet
Mum wails
The head follows to complete
Mums face pales
And baby newborn is born!
Tiny hands and tiny feet
Innocent look of sweet
A mild scent
Of sweet present
And baby newborn is born!
Is it a he?
Is it a she?
I knew mum and dad were on a mission
All the Os and As were mums screaming made-up television
'Spread wide open'
I often heard dads tone
A common nomination of repetition
With the bed singing a song of cracking bones
Did either of them ever have any inclination or vision
That of me they were producing another clone!
Baby on my mind
I can’t stop to think about you
It was hard for me to lose you
Half of me have died with you
But I know that you are free in heaven
Walking around
Being happy
Baby on my mind
I grieve the lose of you
Baby on my mind
In my dreams
I see you clear
You had blond hair and green eyes
You were a chubby baby
I hold you in my arms
In real life I will never see you
Or I will never know you
But I guess God was testing me for this
I’ve lost this battle this time
Baby on my mind
I hope I win the next battle
It is almost like being in a war
Lot’s of worries goes through my mind
Baby on my mind
I will provide you with every thing you need when you come
Baby on my mind
I want to be your mother
Forever
And be around to see you grow strong
Baby on my mind
I worried right now if you are going to be healthy?
I hope so
Baby on my mind
I don’t have the right to judge
Only God does
It's in the heart of the grape
where that smile lies.
It's in the good-bye-bow in the hair
where that smile lies.
It's in the clerical collar of the dress
where that smile lies.
What smile?
The smile of my seventh year,
caught here in the painted photograph.
It's peeling now, age has got it,
a kind of cancer of the background
and also in the assorted features.
It's like a rotten flag
or a vegetable from the refrigerator,
pocked with mold.
I am aging without sound,
into darkness, darkness.
Anne,
who are you?
I open the vein
and my blood rings like roller skates.
I open the mouth
and my teeth are an angry army.
I open the eyes
and they go sick like dogs
with what they have seen.
I open the hair
and it falls apart like dust balls.
I open the dress
and I see a child bent on a toilet seat.
I crouch there, sitting dumbly
pushing the enemas out like ice cream,
letting the whole brown world
turn into sweets.
Anne,
who are you?
Merely a kid keeping alive.
Baby let me tell u how I feel
Baby let me love u till the end
Baby my heart is urs
Baby let me touch u all over
Baby can I kiss ur lips
Baby can I rub ur feet
Baby look me in my eyes and don't blink
Baby when the sun goes down will u be around
Baby let's walk the hall of love
Baby when I look at u I see another world in ur eyes
Baby I'm tha man that can take u where u need and want to go
Baby please let's go and don't say no
Baby this is my last cry
Baby make love to me till the end of time
Baby
I asked you, if you liked me, you said no.
i asked you if i was pretty, you said no.
i asked if i was in your heart, u said no.
i asked if you would cry if i walked away, you said no.
so i walked away,
but......
you grabbed my arm and said...
i don't like you, i love you!
you are not pretty, you are beautiful!
you are not in my heart, you ARE my heart.! !
And i wouldn't cry if you walked away, i would die!
By hazem02
Baby oh baby
That's it yeah baby
Watch out baby
Here it comes!
Baby cute baby
Give me a cuddle
Googa goo
Aren't you so cute!
baby do you kno how i fill
since you always want to keep it real
maybe we can do it this one time
you tell me your secret
and i'll tell you mine
wat happin then
we will now leave that behind
as long as your mine
will always have good times...
When you were created, I knew I had found it.
The angel face, and beauty all around it.
Your heart is a creation of wonder.
And, how you came to be, I still ponder.
But, Lilly, you are the joy of my day.
A miracle, in each and every way.
With a beautiful light to your eyes,
like your mother's: stars in the skies.
Like the flower you are named,
may you never be tamed.
Your life is too free.
Like your love from me.
NO!
I dont want her to grow up to be like me,
after all I have ever done and the only thing she has ever seen
is mom and me fighting, Tim and me fighting, or mom and Tim
fighting. Not once has she seen us as a whole family.
Knowing she is growing up and beginning to look like
me and all I want is her to grow up oppisite of me.
I dont want her to be like me and break down and cut,
I know she can't handle pain to well and hopefully she grows
out of it and does not become the person I did and make the
same mistakes I did. I'm not going to try and fix my mistakes through
her but I just want her to be the better side of me.
Knowing I can't change what she has seen and knowing
that nothing I do can change her way of thinking,
she's  as stubborn as me, that could be a good thing
or bad. No one knows, no one will ever know the deep secrets
that i hold within and I pray to God that she does not do the
same. Never again would I be able to live with myself knowing
I gave that knowledge to my little sister and she turns around
and uses it against me. I don't want my little baby sister to
become my enemy. Having to fight her every day about shit
that I did in the past and screwed up badly.
One night she will turn against the entire family and once
again I will be left alone. Just as Tim did.
From torrid heat to frigid cold
I've rovered land and sea;
And now, with halting heart I hold
My grandchild on my knee:
Yet while I've eighty years all told,
Of moons she has but three.
She sleeps, that fragile miniature
Of future maidenhood;
She will be wonderful, I'm sure,
As over her I brood;
She is so innocent, so pure,
I know she will be good.
My way I've won from woe to weal,
And hard has been the fight;
Yet in my ingle-nook I feel
A wondrous peace to-night;
And over me serenely steal
Warm waves of love and light.
"What sloppy stuff!" I hear you say.
"Give us a lusty song."
Alas! I'm bent and gnarled and grey,--
My life may not be long:
Yet let its crown of glory be
This child upon me knee.
Baby baby
Smile making
Laksh of refresh...
Smile the baby
With...
Rose flower...
Sun flower...
Loutes flower...
All are funney for
A little milkey baby
Smile...
Smile...
With love too
Looted...
Refersh kisses
Fly with come too
Faithfully your heart...
A baby simply smile...
Enjoy it...
Enjoy...!
Baby tomorrow I wonder
Where my thoughts shall be
Oceans afar - asunder
Where doubtful questions flee
Try not to long too much
Feelings aside those play
Controls so out of touch
Into sallow fall's ray
Maybe tomorrow will give
What got lost right now?
And we could both live
Through this torment somehow
Yesterdays don’t come back
Only their memories
What each reality lack
An instant of actuality never sees
You are still steps missing
Where I'm reaching to
Though your lips I’ll be kissing
In my dreams untrue
What did drive us apart?
Was it the differences we are?
Lacking a beat from the start
Our inside feelings of war
Chorus
Maybe tomorrow will give
What got lost right now?
And we could both live
Through this torment somehow
Yesterdays don’t come back
Only their memories
What each reality lack
An instant of actuality never sees
Baby tomorrow I wonder
Baby is dumb
Adult has wisdom
Babies are small and crawl
Adults are tall and fall
Baby demands
Adult commands
Baby yearns to walk
Adult learns to work
Baby weeps
Adult sleeps
You carry a baby
You marry an adult
Baby chokes
Adult smokes
Baby stays at home to play
Adult brings home the pay
Baby cries
Adult sighs
Baby spikes milk
Adults like silk
And I saved this for the last
Baby at birth
Adult at death
Baby vs Adult becomes a thing of the  past
Blue Baby, we love you alot
Yup Baby, even though you're gone
Loca's Baby, like your other sibling
Blue Baby, your memory will go on
God Baby, I was to be your godmother
Sweet Baby, I'll still love you the same
Man Baby, were so sad that you left us
Blue Baby, I will never forget your name
Were you born
ever to be a burden.
Then for your mom,
at her lap.
Now for me
in my heart.
A bush baby baby am I,
Bouncing 'neath the baobob tree.
Not sure I'm a gal or guy,
But Lincoln Park Zoo's home to me.
Mom and Dad are teaching me bunch,
How to super jump all about,
Snatching insects to have for lunch,
My night vision helping, no doubt.
I'm full of life - eat, sleep and play.
Good grooming is a fam'ly art.
I watch what the folks do and say,
Cuz both of them are just so smart.
At the Zoo, come visit. You must
Look for me till your eyes adjust.
hello world
you may not know me
but I know you
my name is Caroline
and I am only four
I am their baby girl
I have only seen part of you world
but for form what I see
I see there are problems
problems in my world
people are in a battle
a battle over my future
a battle for how I will live
where I will live
there are two sides
my mothers
and
my fathers
there are pros and cons of both
my mothers side
pro- she is my mother and every girl needs a mother
pro- she has money so I can live a easy life.
con- from what I see she does not want me she just want my father not to have me.
con- from what I see she would just hand me over to hired help, so that she can be with her true love. her wine.
my fathers side
pro- he fights for me and from what for I can see that he wants me, he doesn't just want me so that my mother will not have me. he wants me, for he loves me.
pro- I can see he will me there for me, for I can be daddy's little girl
con- he does not have the money my mom has, but money isn't everything. he has the love my mother doesn't.
con- I just don't understand why,  why everyone else thinks I should not  be with him. what do they see wrong with him, for I do not see one fault. am I missing something or are they wrong?
for this is what I have seen
for this is my world
so far
I don't know which side will win
will the battle
the battle for my future
for all I can do
is sit and watch this world go by
for this world doesn't know me
so  I will just has to watch and see
watch and hope
hope the best side wins
for I can not do anything else
for I am only four
for I am Caroline
for I am just their baby girl
come baby...
come sweetheart...
let us change the classic way...
and break all rules...
come and don`t care about all..
ignore them...
don`t be shame...
there is no shameful with a feelings..
and let us feel the happiness...
the happiness which we created for...
come to give each other a love...
come to taste me as always you wished me..
come and let our bodies become as a one..
come and let me go so deep inside you..
come let us make a love..
Dearest Baby,
My heart is broken.
Something terrible has happened,
And as a result, you have died.
I loved you so much;
I wanted you so much...
From the minute,
I knew of your existence,
I had special plans for us.
I imagined what you may have looked like,
And all the happy things we might have done.
You were SO special to me...
My heart cries out from the loss of you.
I relive that moment again and again
In my mind's eye,
And I cringe...
Because it was so horrible.
No one knew of your existence....
You were even more special to me,
Because of my secret.
I kept you to myself and it seemed,
As though we were one.
Only I knew of you....
Only I loved you.
Then that awful day came,
When my world was shattered,
And you died.
All at once,
My world came crashing down.
You died and there was not a thing,
I could have done to have stopped it.
Losing my precious baby boy,
Rips through me like a knife.
Now my baby boy is gone...
I'll never hold him...
I'll never sing him quiet lullabies...
My arms will be empty without him.
Baby, you were so special to me.
You grew beneath my heart
And I felt such a closeness to you.
Now all that is gone...
I cry so many tears
Because I lost you.
I ache for all that cannot be.
I often wish there was a way...
To have my baby boy back-
But he is gone - forever lost to me.
I'll say a prayer for you, baby boy,
And ask God to keep you safe.
I'll never hold you,
But I would have loved you.
My heart swells with the love,
I still carry for you.
I must say goodbye, Baby.
Know that a part of me,
Remains with you always,
For I loved you so greatly,
And once you and I were one.
And I will always remember,
That once you were mine,
My Baby Son.
(January 19,1998)
A hot day in mid January and scarce a puff of breeze
And John and Dave in cherry picker up by power line trimming trees
The cut back from the line three metres and the order cut to code
A mile out of olinda just off mount Dandy Road.
They were trimming branch of liquid ambar close to spotted dove's nest
And two small baby spotted doves at noise of saw distressed
One of them backed off stick made home and toppled to the ground
And lay there dying by base of tree and uttered not a sound.
A two week old bird covered in down and unable yet to fly
And i powerless to save his life could only watch him die
The luckless baby spotted dove did not live to enjoy
The happiness that wings can bring, the freedom of the sky.
As the cherry picker moved down road mother dove returned to nest
And she fed her one remaining babe and then cloaked him neath her breast
One spotted dove less in the world it really seemed a shame
But accidents cannot be helped and life goes on the same.
Fate is a baby young eyes
In to a morning daybreak
How in the truth you rise
Always yourself no fake
Give it your trying worth
Everything you have got
You came of this earth
What you are - what you are not
The days are ahead for free
Bring them to destiny
Be what you want to be
Most of it's had for free
Occupy dreams come true
Everywhere you go
You will be always you
Walking it to and fro
Something you can live
Is always worth its while
What you know to give
Each of your footstep's trial
Nothing is nothing still
So please give of your love
Others may find their hill
The dales have them plenty of
*Sorry about the Blue versus Young, - the word is Young, not Blue; and the fault is ours. The word got somehow scrambled through the cell phone…
The Crew
Covered in cake and icing,
Your smile stretched ear to ear.
Two candles celebrates,
The joy of your second year.
We sing Happy Birthday,
You play midst wrap and bows.
We marvel at how you touched our lives,
Just two years ago.
I remember the first time I held you,
whispered your sweet precious name.
You've changed our lives forever,
Our hearts will never be the same.
As a child you'll love this day,
For all the sweets and presents too.
As parents we'll love your day,
For the gift we got was you.
Each year we'll add another candle,
So proud to see you grow.
But always with the memory,
Of your first day long ago.
On your birthday, special one,
I wish that all your dreams come true.
May your day be filled with joy,
Wonderful gifts and goodies, too.
On your day I wish for you
Favorite people to embrace,
Loving smiles and caring looks
That earthly gifts cannot replace.
I wish you fine and simple pleasures.
I wish you many years of laughter.
I wish you all of life’s best treasures.
I wish you happily ever after!
When your heart is lost
I will be your world map
and take you to the top
When pain veils your vision
I will be your contact lens
with the utmost precision
When tears happen to flow
I will be your 3-ply tissues
and bring back your glow
When they hurt and let you down
I will be your psycho killer
and shoot them all without a sound
Happy Valentine's Baby!
Hey baby. It’s me.
We need to talk.
Things aren’t right
Between
Us.
No. Too casual.
We’re over? Through?
You’re history? Gone?
I’m not ready for this?
No. too heavy.
I don’t know.
I don’t know anything anymore
Ignore me.
Hey baby. It’s me.
We need to talk.
But I don’t know how.
Liner Notes - (from No More Mister Nice Girl)
I was having a foul day. Some geezer harrassed me on the street and I got completely bent out of shape, but the guy was huge so I just stuffed my retort. Went home to drink coffee. No milk. I ripped through the cupboards and found Non Dairy Creamer. It tasted like shit. I got into one of those senseless rages where you throw stuff. I hurled the Non Dairy Creamer and it fell into the tub where I was running some bath water. The creamer erupted and made this bathing gel of Non Dairy Creamer. I was ready to kill myself. Instead I wrote Hey Baby.
So I'm walking down the street
minding my own business
when this guy starts with me
he's suckin' his lips goin'
Hey Baby
Yo Baby
Hey Baby
Yo
and I get a little tense and nervous
but I keep walking
but the guy, he's dogging my every move
hey Miss, he says,
Don't miss this!
And he grabs his crotch and sneers ear to ear
so finally, I turn around
Hey Buddy, I say
I'm feelin' kinda tense, Buddy
I got a fuckin' song in my heart
so come on,
Let's go
I got a huge bucket of non-dairy creamer
and some time to kill
so let's do it
we'll make some foul-smelling artifical milk
and drink gallons and gallons and gallons of it
Get our bladders exceedingly full then
sit on the toilet together and let
the water run in the shower
and torture ourselves by not letting ourselves urinate
as the water rushes loudly
into the bathrub, okay?
We'll do it together
writhe in utter agony
Just you and me
and I'll even spring for some of that blue shit
for the toilet bowl, all right?
I mean, that's my idea of a good time
so how bout it, you wanna?
The guy backs up a bit
Whatsa matter, Baby?
You got somethin' against men?, he says
No, I say
I don't have anything against men
Just STUPID men
In the lone place of the leaves,
Where they touch the hanging eaves,
There sprang a spray of joyous song that sounded sweet and sturdy;
And the baby in the bed
Raised the shining of his head,
And pulled the mother's lids apart to wake and watch the birdie.
She kissed lip-dimples sweet,
The red soles of his feet,
The waving palms that patted hers as wind-blown blossoms wander;
He twined her tresses silk
Round his neck as white as milk­
'Now, baby, say what birdie sings upon his green spray yonder.'
'He sings a plenty things­
Just watch him wash his wings!
He says Papa will march to-day with drums home through the city.
Here, birdie, here's my cup.
You drink the milk all up;
I'll kiss you, birdie, now you're washed like baby clean and pretty.'
She rose, she sought the skies
With the twin joys of her eyes;
She sent the strong dove of her soul up through the dawning's glory;
She kissed upon her hand
The glowing golden band
That bound the fine scroll of her life and clasped her simple story.
Little girl
only three
bouncing on her Mummy's knee
in perfect pitch & key
sings perfectly:
Britney's 'HIT ME
BABY ONE MORE TIME! '
We all smile.
Her Mummy
bounces her
up & down
so that the sound
goes slightly wobbly.
We smile all the more.
Hush-a-by Baby
On the tree top,
When the wind blows
The cradle will rock;
When the bough breaks
The cradle will fall,
Down tumbles baby,
Cradle, and all.
I know a baby, such a baby, -
Round blue eyes and cheeks of pink,
Such an elbow furrowed with dimples,
Such a wrist where creases sink.
‘Cuddle and love me, cuddle and love me,’
Crows the mouth of coral pink:
Oh, the bald head, and, oh, the sweet lips,
And, oh, the sleepy eyes that wink!
“I love you baby”
I whisper
As you leave for work.
“I love you too, darlin”
You reply.
“I love you baby”
I whisper
When we make love.
“I love you too, darlin”
You reply.
“I miss you, baby…”
I whisper
“…When you’re gone.”
“I miss you more, darlin”
You reply.
“I love you baby”
I whisper
Each night, and kiss your cheek
“And I love you, darlin”
You reply,
And kiss my face
Before I dream.
“I love you baby”
You whisper
In my dreams
“I love you too, darlin”
I reply
Come and lay beside me
and kiss me my Baby..
Kiss me like only you can
Softly brush my lips
with yours
Let me feel your warmth,
your femininity
Put your arms round me
and kiss me Baby
Let my body brush against yours
feeling your passion,
my body hearing your call
Kiss me, kiss me Baby
so that I can submit to you,
my body in rythym with yours
bound in this kiss.
Kiss me my Baby
so that I can know
that i'm alive
You flew in softly and tiptoed in my life
My parched soul got a reprieve
My heart is now your permanent home
We shall play with elves and gnomes
The moon will sing with me a lullaby
The stars do a slow tambourine dance in the sky
My blurred vision suddenly got a divine sight
You are the soul of my soul, my eternal light
There is a river gushing inside me
You are the fountain, you are my chi
I hear nothing but your sweet voice
You shimmer, you glisten and I rejoice
You, my darling are my inner sun
You are the song that I will hum
Today, tomorrow and forever
Your inner light I shall devour
You are the ink on my heart that will never blur
The calligraphy etched deep inside
You have fulfilled a deep void
You are my baby, my love, my joy, my pride
As the nightingale sings its song
And the serpent slides into where it belongs
The fox after its feast gets up and yawns
The cuckoo croons and sings to the swans
I walk in the woods where the spring has awakened
The wild flowers blossom and threaten to apprehend
I ask myself, what did I do to have found you
What will I have to do to keep you, my dew
To have luck continue my way
You are my love, you are my jay
I dreamed of you and made you my reality
And then put an end to my duality
I love the sight of you
You have made my life anew
I live to see you laugh, to hold your hand
To see you sleep, to be your magic wand
You please me more everyday
Life has shown me a new way
O Wind, please continue to blow my way
Life without her will be dark and gray
She is like a vision to the blind
Solution to all riddles you will find
My love for her is as measureless as the sky
Will never let you go or I shall die
Lets do it again baby
Because I need
To prove
My love to you
And I want to show
What love is
Your voice
soft as a sea
washing me
in sound
leaving little
seashells in my mind.
I see you upon a breath of light
Lying downward on this night
You are so small and sweet it seems
Beginning to dream infant dreams
Pony rides and puppy dogs
Gigantic slides and Lincoln Logs
Now you relax upon the sheet
Envision, life, so very sweet
Chocolate sundae, Maraschino cherry
The town of Taipei, the Tooth fairy
So lie down and snooze upon the bed
Rest that enormous baby head
Acrobats and bumper cars
Kitty cats and movie stars
Dream and wonder, free and wild
Nap and marvel, now, young child
Moving Streetcars and big biceps
Ringo Starr and Johnny Depp
This you will know of come, someday
But sleep now and dream the night away
Quite child, do not scream
Now is the time to dream
Pony rides and Puppy dogs
Real big slides and Lincoln logs
Take and rest upon the sheet
And may all your dreams be sweet
Lollipops and golden hen
Robots and army men
So lay down upon the bed
While these tings dance in your head
Acrobats and kitty cats
Bumper cars and movie stars
All these things you do not know
Spaghetti O’s and play dough
You will someday
So sleep and grow
Little brown baby wif spa'klin' eyes,
Come to yo' pappy an' set on his knee.
What you been doin', suh -- makin' san' pies?
Look at dat bib -- you's es du'ty ez me.
Look at dat mouf -- dat's merlasses, I bet;
Come hyeah, Maria, an' wipe off his han's.
Bees gwine to ketch you an' eat you up yit,
Bein' so sticky an sweet -- goodness lan's!
Little brown baby wif spa'klin' eyes,
Who's pappy's darlin' an' who's pappy's chile?
Who is it all de day nevah once tries
Fu' to be cross, er once loses dat smile?
Whah did you git dem teef? My, you's a scamp!
Whah did dat dimple come f'om in yo' chin?
Pappy do' know you -- I b'lieves you's a tramp;
Mammy, dis hyeah's some ol' straggler got in!
Let's th'ow him outen de do' in de san',
We do' want stragglers a-layin' 'roun' hyeah;
Let's gin him 'way to de big buggah-man;
I know he's hidin' erroun' hyeah right neah.
Buggah-man, buggah-man, come in de do',
Hyeah's a bad boy you kin have fu' to eat.
Mammy an' pappy do' want him no mo',
Swaller him down f'om his haid to his feet!
Dah, now, I t'ought dat you'd hug me up close.
Go back, ol' buggah, you sha'n't have dis boy.
He ain't no tramp, ner no straggler, of co'se;
He's pappy's pa'dner an' play-mate an' joy.
Come to you' pallet now -- go to yo' res';
Wisht you could allus know ease an' cleah skies;
Wisht you could stay jes' a chile on my breas'--
Little brown baby wif spa'klin' eyes!
life without regrets,
you only get one chance.
try your best,
it might be the last.
breathe without skipping a second,
laugh with all your heart.
life may be a nightmare,
take some action and change it.
change it into a dream,
the most magical one it can be.
stop for a second,
just to smell the roses.
jump on your bed,
look at the clouds.
dance like no one is watching,
sing and dance in the rain.
let your mascara run,
smile about your screwups.
dress to be different,
only to express yourself.
smile to make someone else smile,
laugh at a joke you heard yesterday.
draw a picture,
even if you're horrible.
sing out loud like an idiot,
help someone random.
cry when you laugh,
laugh when you're alone.
live like there's no tomorrow,
even when you feel like hopeless.
love someone without trying,
smile at everyone in sight.
take things slow,
remember everything.
walk in the rain,
kiss in the rain.
have a snowball fight,
with styrofoam.
buy a new cd,
of a band you never heard of.
try something new,
no matter how daring.
heartbreaks don't matter,
he never did care.
trust people you love,
love the trust that is given.
watch the clouds float by,
as if you had the time.
By day he was a plumber, a regular one of the boys,
But by night he ran Ladies Parties, selling fantasy sex-toys.
And when a plumbing he did go, the ladies liked his tools for sure
Which explains all his discount rates, when being paid behind the door.
One customer seemed quite nervous, when she got her boiler serviced
Unknown to him, amused herself, with rampant rabbits or anything else!
His bag that day was choc-a-block with wrenches for wenches and sex-party stock.
And as he worked, behind his back, she secretly rummaged in his sack.
His work was interrupted, while adjusting his tape measure,
From the room along the hall he heard her moans and screams of pleasure.
“I love this tartan dildo, and this kinky rubber mask! ”
He said, “I can sell you the mask, my dear. But not my thermos flask! ”
Maybe I love someone, and maybe I don’t
Maybe il tell him so, and maybe I wont.
Maybe im heartbroken, and he doesn’t see
That I need to leave him if il ever be free.
Maybe he’s all I think about, all day long.
And maybe without him I just don’t belong
Maybe these words are lies, and im just a whore,
Maybe im love-struck and nothing more
Maybe im the pretty girl you see on tv,
Maybe im the stalker that you wont ever see
Maybe you love me too, and I should tell you
But you kissed me and I knew…
I'm your trophy.
i read in the newspaper about
a young woman raped
by an aquaintance;
she decided not to press charges,
she had his baby. i realized that person
was my sister.
the baby's name is Charity.
though she looks like her father,
Charity will never be ours. She will never
be Lillian's, or even Robert's.
she will always
be the fruit of something
beyond comprehension as a civilized world.
Charity belongs
to the nameless
overpowering
need.
It looked like a storm was brewing
Dark clouds were ominous, it’s true
Such stillness was in the air as well
And I think you would feel it too
Poor little Mollie was very scared
Not sure what would happen to her
Mom was standing near, of course
Mollie pressed closely against her fur
The sky grew darker by the minute
Only a little purple and pink could be seen
The night was changing to a nightmare
Looking so angry and utterly mean
Thank goodness Mollie had Mom
And as time went on through the night
Mollie had a little bit to eat
It was a pleasant and wonderful sight
The sky continued to build its storm
But there wasn’t a thing could be done
Of course tomorrow is another day
And I’m sure it’ll bring out the sun!
Walking through the house
doing the usual cleaning
I begin to wonder
who are these kids living in my house?
I see the MP3 player on the table.
The cell phone on top of the T.V.,
Kids are so much more
technologically advanced than we were
(and wasn't I just their age? ?)
As I toss their electronic devices
into their room
I feel an emptiness for them
wondering if they'll ever be able
to receive comfort
outside the electronic age.
Before I turn around to leave
I see a hand-written note
done with bright purple magic marker
left by my thirteen year old daughter.
''Mom, Please wash Baby Ducky!
Love, Charity''
''Baby Ducky'' is the blanket
she's had since she was a baby.
It is a twin sized comforter
with a picture of a little girl and a duck
(which explains the name...Baby Ducky) .
It was her older sisters until the new baby
(Charity)     came along
and she decided to pass it down as a gift.
When Charity's baby brother came along
she tried so hard
to keep up the tradition
and give it to him...
it lasted about 2 days.
She just couldn't bare life without it.
We gave it back to her
and it hasn't left her possession since.
Her note reminds me
that no matter what joy they get
from electronic toys and gadgets...
nothing can replace the pure comfort
you get from an old blanket
given to you with love.
Together, my man and I
Lie together to join my baby and I.
The gracious Lord, how can this be?
God's creation bonds my baby and I.
Time is awaiting those tiny eyes,
Forming my fetus, my baby and I.
My man, so tense at times, Tanya, don't stress
Yourself out with our baby, you see.
What a joy when my little one arrives
Into this cold, scary, confused world.
My baby and I . . . I will teach my baby well
To understand this scary world.
Life is our baby and my man.
Tis is our first, don't you see—
Time awaits my baby and I.
so excited that this man of mine is holding me closely
Each night after a long day at my busiest job.
My baby, my man, and I,
Our beautiful baby will be born soon.
This bonds us closer, my man and I.
My mother . . . his mother as proud as can be for him,
And me, my mom, my baby, and me, Tanya . . .
Thank you, God's blessing to you.
Peace be unto you, your man, and your unborn child.
Your the baby girl that brightened our world,
a suprise in a way,
and now that we have you here with us,
we're gonna make you stay.
You look so pretty in the dresses you wear,
and the tiny little bows,
clasped in your hair.
Its about time you came!
What took you so long?
You growing so big,
and getting so strong.
Im your favorite big cousin,
Duh! Why wouldnt I be?
I'll keep it a secret,
but eventually they'll see!
Beautiful little girl
That's what you are
With that cute little curl
Im glad we came this far
You were inside of me
I can't believe this is real
This was mean't to be
And i can't explain how i feel
I love your sweet smile
And that little face you make
It was all worth the while
Like when you awake
Now you are leaving
Leaving me all alone
I know i'll be greiving
But, we can talk on the phone
Beautiful little girl
That's what you are
With that cute little curl
Im glad we came this far
(Written for a Friend)
The long nights are never much boring
my dear hubby takes care of that
playing simple tunes to 'amuse'
me, tho' sadly the notes fall flat
Animal, veggie and mineral
these nocturnal notes awaken
as I lie there ears and nose plugged
while his farts and snores are a quakin'
Lest you regard this poem as unkind,
rude or crude, from an ill-bred mind
please notice my predicament for
this music is not heaven-sent
*    *    *    *    *
But honey, you know that I love you
and something this bad ain't all bad:
your noises and fumes repel ver-
min, and for that I'm very glad
my baby is in heaven above.
i knew god will give him lots of love.
god took my baby from me.
i cried a deep blue sea.
he can never be replaced.
the truth might as well be faced.
His name was sox
he looked so cute in his box.
he was my best friend
he was there tell the end
my dog was the night and day of my life.
i still cry in the night
i just need some light.
My sweet little baby, when you were born into my life
you made me to forget my worries and strife
I can recollect the day your mother and me met
and we prayed God to have a lovely little baby like you
Our God pleased with our prayers and given you to us
Now, I daily thank God and forever will be in his debt
Today you are such a precious child who bright our home
I see your two tiny feet that cycle in the air and
your tiny hands are pulling your hair.
Your sweet little face brings joy to us and we forget the world
When I get up in the morning then you are fastest sleep
When I say good night then you don't allow me to sleep
You want me to hold and tucked up against my chin
Your mother wants me to write a poem about you
but what can I write about you when you are the poem
You are my shining star I reach to hold you around
and hugs you with my love that I have blessed for.
That's the joy of parenthood we have for while.
Softly comes the night,
Moon Woman walks the land.
Rest well, my little one,
Member of a proud band.
And in Dream Catcher's web,
Eagle Soars, Bison runs free,
Thunderbird calls,
Wolf sings high and sweet.
Rest well, my little one.
Ancient legends guard your sleep.
Nature Baby as free as a bird
Nature Baby not speaking a word
Nature Baby living day by day
Nature Baby always floating away. Feeling the soil around my feet
The sun rays beating down with heat
My being feeling like I'm not physically here
And when I look around I'm so much more aware. The energy keeps coming my way
As I buzz through life and play
Nature Baby being free
Nature Baby that is me
That is what is meant to be. Nature Baby gave the garden lots of love and energy
And now the gardens have surrounded me with beauty
And the heavenly scents from each flower in bloom
As we share the space within this big room. Nature Baby as free as a bird
Nature Baby not speaking a word.
You listen
with twisting awkwardness
squirming in
my remembrances
of you
as I tell you
of you
at 2
And oh...the things that you
would do!
Oh you...
a tentative teenager now
embarrassed at
your recent past
which seems so far removed from you
but not for me
You trying to be
cool & sophisticated like
a Spice Girl
Girl power!
Years later you will have changed again
and deny you ever were:
'No…I never!'
but ah…yes you were!
You take
your grinning boyfriend
by the hand
imploring him:
“Don’t listen to my old man! ”
Ode to baby
In some small ways when you think about it
How much happiness he will give you when he arrives
But as we look around everything will change when he will be here
The baby will need my attention than
He will need me there to take care of him
And I will give him all my love
I will than hear just a whisper of what the heart of this baby needs to say
It will make a difference in some small ways
In that baby’s heart will lay the key
That unlocks his destiny
You will be a miracle baby
You will sleep tight my precious one
In that crib
Beautiful Baby
Every day
Will get better
Lullabies I will sing to you
And you will sleep tight every night
And when you come we will share that beautiful world together
That baby will live with the one he loves
And I hope one day when that baby is grown up we can be all proud of him
Of course we will be proud of his parents also
And I will be proud to be your uncle always
This baby’s spirit will always be alive
For now I just have to wait for you first to come to my world
And than to be a part of my life
Baby you are in my prayers
Every day
I believe that this baby will be my future
I will teach him well
I will teach him what is right and what is wrong
I will belong to you once you will arrive
When your mother was crying in pain,
I took her to hospital, then I heard your
mother's loud scream along with your soft cry
Your mother brought you into this world as an angel.
You were lying next to your mother innocently
My son, your cry brought tears of love in my eyes
When I looked at you first my heart filled with happiness
You were looking very healthy boy
You were trying to look at me through your fresh new eyes
I saw your tiny legs were rocking in the air
and your tiny hands were clapping for me
I gave one of my fingers to you to hold and you held me tightly
and you want to kiss my finger too
When I wrap you in my arms I felt that my dream come true
We waited for you so long and your arrival made our house lighten
God has listen to our prayers and given you as his gift.
I will be watching you growing up and teach you all the good things
You will be learning all the best and I am sure that you will show me
your best when you wear your cap and gown on your graduation day.
We're gonna have a baby!
Daddy told me yesterday.
A baby brother or a sister,
Mommy's growing it each day.
It's right there in her tummy.
Can you see it?  It's right there.
I can hold my hand and feel it move
'cause Mommy doesn't care.
I wonder, does it like the things
that Mommy has to eat?
All those yucky vegetables?
All that hard to chew up meat?
I hope that it comes out of there
before I get too old...
Uh oh, Mommy's eating ice cream.
Will that make the baby cold?
They emerge; and as they do,
your whole world is re-shaped;
you’re stunned - as Adam must have been -
with the miracle of birth;
They come as miniature perfection –
who reads the small-print warning clause?
‘These goods come without a life-time guarantee…’
But you don’t pause to dream their own world for them –
except to count, in wonder, fingers, toes;
they come as answer to your whole life up to now;
right now, they laugh and cry as Love itself;
poems as babies in the heart and mind.
He lay within a warm, soft world
Of motion. Colors bloomed and fled,
Maroon and turquoise, saffron, red,
Wave upon wave that broke and whirled
To vanish in the grey-green gloom,
Perspectiveless and shadowy.
A bulging world that had no walls,
A flowing world, most like the sea,
Compassing all infinity
Within a shapeless, ebbing room,
An endless tide that swells and falls . . .
He slept and woke and slept again.
As a veil drops Time dropped away;
Space grew a toy for children's play,
Sleep bolted fast the gates of Sense --
He lay in naked impotence;
Like a drenched moth that creeps and crawls
Heavily up brown, light-baked walls,
To fall in wreck, her task undone,
Yet somehow striving toward the sun.
So, as he slept, his hands clenched tighter,
Shut in the old way of the fighter,
His feet curled up to grip the ground,
His muscles tautened for a bound;
And though he felt, and felt alone,
Strange brightness stirred him to the bone,
Cravings to rise -- till deeper sleep
Buried the hope, the call, the leap;
A wind puffed out his mind's faint spark.
He was absorbed into the dark.
He woke again and felt a surge
Within him, a mysterious urge
That grew one hungry flame of passion;
The whole world altered shape and fashion.
Deceived, befooled, bereft and torn,
He scourged the heavens with his scorn,
Lifting a bitter voice to cry
Against the eternal treachery --
Till, suddenly, he found the breast,
And ceased, and all things were at rest,
The earth grew one warm languid sea
And he a wave. Joy, tingling, crept
Throughout him. He was quenched and slept.
So, while the moon made broad her ring,
He slept and cried and was a king.
So, worthily, he acted o'er
The endless miracle once more.
Facing immense adventures daily,
He strove still onward, weeping, gaily,
Conquered or fled from them, but grew
As soil-starved, rough pine-saplings do.
Till, one day, crawling seemed suspect.
He gripped the air and stood erect
And splendid. With immortal rage
He entered on man's heritage!
I was hoping to find you there
But you are gone
My heart is in tatters
Completely torn!
Be for real, wont you baby
Why dont you just talk to me
Lets sail out in our boat
Into the open, in the high sea
Was it just my imagination
Or was it just your cold?
You seemed so far away
What we felt, doesnt hold?
Be for real, wont you baby
Why dont you just talk to me
Lets sail out in our boat
Into the open, in the high sea
I miss the crinkling dimple
I miss the warm spark
You have gone missing
Loneliness hits me stark
Be for real, wont you baby
Wont you just talk to me
Lets  sail out in our boat
Into the open, in the high sea
I try and rise above the fear-induced fog in my mind
Above the lemon-rind bitterness that loving and leaving
Leaves behind, residual regret resounds off the walls
Of my aching but throbbingly alive consciousness
Cool clear skies beckon with the promise of freedom
Of clarity, peace of mind, rare insight and flight
But my attachment to the past is cemented
Like the stubborn slivers that truss the clam to its shell
And the barnacle to its rock, calm reason and stock taking
Do not help sever these ties that bind and gag but only drag
Me deeper down into the morass – steaming, fuming
With noxious odors and malodorous vapors
That simply swell the fog to cumbersome proportions
Rise I will though, buoyed by the spirit within my very cells
Ringing with life and the promise that the future holds many surprises
“The universe is filled with magical things waiting for us mortals to sharpen our wits”
(28th April,2001)
$5000.00 for every new baby born in America
They heard your promise and they will come in droves
With pregnant underbelly and ovens warm
They will come to collect their share of our wealth
The ignorant and unskilled
The poor and the down trodden
The uneducated migrant working masses
An invasion is inevitable
America is for sale
If we elect Hillary Clinton
Baby, sweet baby, with tears in your eyes
Rest your head gently, there's no need to cry,
Come let me sing you a soft lullaby
The sandman is coming and dreamland is nigh;
Baby, sweet  baby, with skin soft and fair
And little pink ribbons done up in your hair,
In your tiny world there should not be a care
May angels surround you and send you a prayer;
Baby, sweet baby, your cute button nose
Your soft tiny fingers and sweet baby toes
Have truly bewitched me and nobody knows
How the depth of my love for you just grows and grows;
So precious and tender  your love is to me,
Until I first held you, I never could see
How wonderfully magical my life could be -
You've opened my heart and my spirit is free!
For my sweet little angel Shelby Lynn
the time i dropped your almost body down
down to meet the waters under the city
and run one with the sewage to the sea
what did i know about waters rushing back
what did i know about drowning
or being drowned
you would have been born in winter
in the year of the disconnected gas
and no car
we would have made the thin walk
over the genecy hill into the canada winds
to let you slip into a stranger's hands
if you were here i could tell you
these and some other things
and if i am ever less than a mountain
for your definite brothers and sisters
let the rivers wash over my head
let the sea take me for a spiller of seas
let black men call me stranger always
for your never named sake
An elderly person - a prophet by trade -
With his quips and tips
On withered old lips,
He married a young and a beautiful maid;
The cunning old blade!
Though rather decayed,
He married a beautiful, beautiful maid.
She was only eighteen, and as fair as could be,
With her tempting smiles
And maidenly wiles,
And he was a trifle past seventy-three:
Now what she could see
Is a puzzle to me,
In a prophet of seventy - seventy-three!
Of all their acquaintances bidden (or bad)
With their loud high jinks
And underbred winks,
None thought they'd a family have - but they had;
A dear little lad
Who drove 'em half mad,
For he turned out a horribly fast little cad.
For when he was born he astonished all by,
With their "Law, dear me!"
"Did ever you see?"
He'd a pipe in his mouth and a glass in his eye,
A hat all awry -
An octagon tie -
And a miniature - miniature glass in his eye.
He grumbled at wearing a frock and a cap,
With his "Oh, dear, oh!"
And his "Hang it! 'oo know!"
And he turned up his nose at his excellent pap -
"My friends, it's a tap
Dat is not worf a rap."
(Now this was remarkably excellent pap.)
He'd chuck his nurse under the chin, and he'd say,
With his "Fal, lal, lal" -
"'Oo doosed fine gal!"
This shocking precocity drove 'em away:
"A month from to-day
Is as long as I'll stay -
Then I'd wish, if you please, for to toddle away."
His father, a simple old gentleman, he
With nursery rhyme
And "Once on a time,"
Would tell him the story of "Little Bo-P,"
"So pretty was she,
So pretty and wee,
As pretty, as pretty, as pretty could be."
But the babe, with a dig that would startle an ox,
With his "C'ck!  Oh, my! -
Go along wiz 'oo, fie!"
Would exclaim, "I'm afraid 'oo a socking ole fox."
Now a father it shocks,
And it whitens his locks,
When his little babe calls him a shocking old fox.
The name of his father he'd couple and pair
(With his ill-bred laugh,
And insolent chaff)
With those of the nursery heroines rare -
Virginia the Fair,
Or Good Goldenhair,
Till the nuisance was more than a prophet could bear.
"There's Jill and White Cat" (said the bold little brat,
With his loud, "Ha, ha!")
"'Oo sly ickle Pa!
Wiz 'oo Beauty, Bo-Peep, and 'oo Mrs. Jack Sprat!
I've noticed 'oo pat
MY pretty White Cat -
I sink dear mamma ought to know about dat!"
He early determined to marry and wive,
For better or worse
With his elderly nurse -
Which the poor little boy didn't live to contrive:
His hearth didn't thrive -
No longer alive,
He died an enfeebled old dotard at five!
MORAL.
Now, elderly men of the bachelor crew,
With wrinkled hose
And spectacled nose,
Don't marry at all - you may take it as true
If ever you do
The step you will rue,
For your babes will be elderly - elderly too.
Little baby firefly
when your night is through
does your mommy tuck you in
and tell you she loves you?
Does she kiss your forehead
and say in morning's light...
'Day-day little sleepyhead,
close your eyes, put out your light.'
volanic eruption
baby turtles flocks
out of the sand
It is like an volcanic eruption when you view baby turtles coming out of the sand after they are hatched. Most of them by instinct would move out to sea. Despite the large number of turtles - at least a hundred of them -  from each mother turtle, very few actually live up to be adults as pollution and poaching kill many of them. The best place to view turtles now is in Pulau Redang, and its surrounding islands.
fengshui master
hatched turtles know instantly
the direction to head for
baby leatherbacks
the little big eyed all head
towards sea
baby leatherbacks
see you in 30 years
at this same beach
instinct instinct
incubated baby leatherbacks
but the sea is in their genes
humans make all the difference
giant sea turtle hurled out
for a land burial
l
Two days ago, I watched baby leatherbacks being released into sea. They all went on direction with a single will. None headed the other way. It made me realise that the sea must be in their genes. Baby turtles' eyes are large in comparison to their size. However on the same day, a dead giant green turtle was hurled out of the sea. It was decomposing, perhaps dead for three weeks. They buried it on Tioman Marine Park beach. Tioman Island is among the top 10 world's most beautiful islands.
Clouds gather
as we gather
cloudberries
the hidden
secret
precious patches
of fruit.
My wife
smiles
ripens
to my touch.
* * *
Finns treat cloudberries as precious...the sun made flesh. They have their own secret stashes in forests that they hope no one else will discover and go to elaborate lenghts and suberfuge to keep their stash secret.  They glow in bottles as if they were captured sunlight.
My wife was becoming unknowingly pregnant and this too was our hidden secret soon to be revealed to us.  The sun made flesh.
Wava is the Finnish for baba and I use to call her this 'cos I loved the way the sound caressed her and loved her like I did.
There the kites come
Head grasped in the children’s hands
Looking for wind
While their tails get tickled by sand
Ah, there comes the wind
And the kites soar into the sky
The children let out more rope
To see the kites go high high high
They flew hither and thither
Twisting their long necks
The passing by birds
Gave them loving pecks
They swished their magnificent tails
Hugging each other again and again
They danced to the beat of the wind
Even when started had the rain
Later they  stopped playing
The sea was crashing, forming foam
As a child said to the others
“We’ve played enough, lets go home”.
Walking Along The Beach In Nova Scotia
Walking barefoot  in the sand
on a quiet Sunday morning
at peace with natures surroundings.
A warm sunny day with
a faint scent of fish filtering through the air.
The ocean breeze caressing my body,
giving me a tranquil feeling,
in this awesome atmosphere.
At peace with nature,
enjoying every moment,
I heard the cry of the loon.
I saw him standing at the waters edge
as if to say, good morning.
He spread his wings to a full span,
held it there awhile.
I watched with anticipation
wondering what was yet to come
from this magnificent creature
of the wild.
He stood like a king looking at me,
took flight and soared through the sky.
The sand dollars were plentiful,
displaying their artistic designs.
I continued to walk as
the sand massaged my feet.
It was a joyous morning
walking along the
beach.
Written:  August 31,2007
1. The Public Pier
Here beyond the screaming beach,
the volleyball and surfers,
the fishers try
to pull something
alive from the veiled
depths, and some succeed.
Fearless pre-teens
leap off the railing,
then bob like seals
amid the light beams
dancing on the green surface.
Ruby’s Diner, at the far end,
half a mile toward Catalina,
gets $8 a cheeseburger.
and the trash boat
gurgling away from its dock
seems to signify that some,
at least, have taken that bait.
We’re neither land nor sea here,
neither fish nor fowl,
though both fish and fowl
are all around  us
out on this
island in the sky,
this bridge
to nowhere
and everywhere
2. The Poets’ Pier
The poets line the pier,
pens dangling out
over the green depths.
Poker-faced, they stand
or sit on benches.
Every now and then
a line tugs,
a pen dips,
a poet
pulls something up
and over the rail.
Shining, exotic,
the poem flops on the deck.
The poet smiles,
and the others,
not so fortunate
yet today,
keep their watch
out toward the sea.
FAT dragons spoil the
fitches, plead says
john, before i take the
beach boys away.
FAT dragons put on a
suit, wash teath, and
drive away, into his
own private hell.
PLEAD says john, before
i take the beach boys
away.
FAT dragon gets old, have
some kids, goes to work,
comes home with his hands
on fire, and repeats what
his father did to him.
PLEAD says john, before
i take the beach boys away.
FAT dragon silently flys
away...
Sun soaked revelations
on a patio deck.
I had long forgotten
the simple joys
Of returning to origin.
In its bosom,
the well worn comfort
Of familiarity,
combined with the
clear remembrance
Of lake breeze air.
Every milestone,
And accomplishment,
All seen by the unending tide
Of water in motion.
From the eyes of my window:
the first breath of my brother
and the last sight of my cousin.
The first taste of a woman
and my last meeting with her.
All trials,
Tribulations,
And friendships
Have come, gone
and began again
here.
Lonely winter nights,
The ferocity of the wind off the beach
almost too much to bear.
Nowhere to go,
Except the solace of a guitar,
You taught yourself well back then.
My first car,
Driving around in circles,
a “summer town” deserted in the winter,
And a father
Eager to pass this rite to his son.
Later,
Cracks in a marriage,
like holes in a wall,
and a lonely teenager hoping for the best.
Ultimately,
reconciliation.
My first taste of addiction.
Parents out of town,
I wanted to be the “cool kid”.
A party remembered,
The stench of cigarettes,
Never
Again
Forgotten.
All within these walls.
Outside,
Clear hot air.
I lay back
And gaze deeply
Into the trunk,
of the tree,
I have seen all
My life.
My great aunt used to tell me
that on the branches,
Of this particular tree
Sits a wise old owl.
He will watch over you
During this life.
To a child
An owl shaped branch,
Can give breath quite easily.
Yet I never truly understood
Her message.
Now
That branch is long since gone,
As is she.
And at times when I need her wisdom
Most
I remember the owl.
Today it is clear to me.
Just as the roots
Of a tree anchor
mighty oak,
My home
Anchors me.
I lay back
In my chair.
Feet up,
exhalation.
I am home,
Rooted once again.
Copyright (c)           David DeSantis
While children playing
And parents walking along
Beach is playground now!
Golden Moon has appeared high above the night Sea;
Heavy wind is blowing fast after a long spell of heat;
Sea looks beautiful enticing new comers to swim soon!
But the 2004 Tsunami has changed the nature of Sea
From harmless beach into dangerous beach of beauty!
Swayed by beauty swimmers have drowned to death
By sudden high tides that develop now and then there!
River tributaries joining the Sea mouth has created island
Where many go for boating seeing the beauty wonderful
And also swim long swayed by the enjoyment soothing;
Then the tragedy occurs by sudden current in the Sea!
Warning boards are displayed here and there for all to see;
But who cares at them while enjoying comforts and beauty!
Alertness when let loose men of ease can’t escape tight noose!
The two of us alone on that stony Cheathrú Rua beach
On a July evening that almost seemed like my reason for being.
It was our last day together and the sun was burning strong.
The coral tucked snugly in under tranquil lapping waves
Like a well fitted carpet – well, at least in appearance –
For its prickle could ignite fires on tender bare feet.
But this day grit between my toes was of little pertinence
As we talked of life and our paths here, sharing tales,
Sharing moments that made us laugh until we cried.
And then you paused, a serious stare. An instant frozen forever:
Your golden hair blew gently in the passing sea breeze,
You looked at me intensely and said simply, “I’ll miss you.”
I could not speak, my throat was blocked.
I spoke only with my eyes when ours locked.
Our faces were ones that only a coral Connemara beach could remember.
The sea it glistened.
I sit here in my cups wondering
where it all went and why.
Fishermen cleaning their wares along
the decrepit pier seem to sigh with each
careless toss, unwanted refuse, fit only
for seagulls and pelicans, viciously
vying for their day’s sustenance.
Blue and white sails, reflecting the morose
sea, up and down the shore, remind me of the way
the wharf smelt the day my sun went down:
decaying fish pickled in brine and all around
the moaning of a ship far out on the horizon.
One summer's day, with nothing better to do,
I went to the beach to enjoy the view.
Lots of cute babes lying around in the sand
Trying their best to improve their tan.
Others strutting around, showing off their stuff
With swimwear so small, almost in the buff.
One gal, probably from Bimini
Wore a very teeny, weeny Bikini,
Very daring, three slices of zucchini.
Her costume was so very spare
Almost like it wasn't there.
Another beauty, this one from New York
Wore only two Band-Aids and a cork.
Very innovative, I'll have to say
Anyway, it really made my day.
Even if you're almost over the hill
Your inner passions are with you still.
I find great pleasure just being a fan
Even if they call me a dirty old man.
I really did enjoy my day
And for tomorrow—?
It's the topless beach down the way!
An umbrella being dragged at the day's end.
A seagull churns its wings,
avoiding sunlight,
the hard flight of Icarus.
Pink swimsuits blown in the wind,
in search of due course.
Time is needy, a bronzed babe walks by, a regular
statue of Liberty, her flesh turning to
green palor as the water cools.
In this empty beach dream of deepening sky,
the wet Kremlin and White House
are eroded as our childless hopes.
An old woman collects
seashells-caverns of poverty
to be sold to our deaf ears.
The ocean roars of stolen property.
My owners they took me to the beach
They parked facing the sea it was in reach
But I was ready to make my escape
As the whole journey a plan I did make
My owners they opened the car door
And I lept and shot out quickly before
They could do anything to stop me
I was cleverer than they thought they see
My owners they stood there staring in disbelief
They hadn't time to even clip on my leash
I charged happily up and down the sand
Lucky for them it was a beach with dogs not banned
My owners they decided to ignore me
It was easier to leave me play by the sea
I barked at the waves telling them not to taunt
They kept coming then going they me did haunt
My owners they just watched from afar
I knew however I was still under their radar
Sea gulls they rose to the skies when I approached
Waving their wings screeching at me they reproached
My owners they started call me back
I noticed a picnic they'd started to unpack
I headed their way hoping for food
That exercise had got me in that hungry mood
My owners heads turned as I just shot past
They tried to catch me but I was too fast
For I had seen something better you see
It was over the road and meant just for me
My owners now they shot up shouting running after me
But I was too fast and enjoying things you see
For in the garden just over the road
Lots of holes rabbits had burrowed
My owners now however much they did shout
My temporary deafness had just broken out
I shot in and out of the holes oh what fun
As from different holes appeared my head and my bum
My owners were now getting cross
Why I don't understand I'm still at a loss
But eventually as I shot out a hole
Strong hands caught me my fun they had stole
My owners put me on my long lead
And muttered because I was very dirtied
But I will always remember my day of great fun
My time at the seaside and what I had done.
oh, , sadness...
your circle killing me..
and your memories waves flooded me..
my life is a sky without lights..
where is your yelling o happiness..? ? ?
and in which wilderness, can i found you..? ? ?
i am a star without sense...
i am a candy without taste..
and here alone in that beach....
I’ll go among the dead to see my friend.
The place I leave is beautiful: the sea
Repeats the winds’ far swell in its long sound,
And, there beside it, houses solemnly
Shine with the modest courage of the land,
While swimmers try the verge of what they see.
I cannot go, although I should pretend
Some final self whose phantom eye could see
Him who because he is not cannot change.
And yet the thought of going makes the sea,
The land, the swimmers, and myself seem strange,
Almost as strange as they will someday be.
Let’s talk while we walk on the sandy beach
The moon kissed sand cold under our feet
Makes our feeling’s warm, desires hot
Twosome we make a nice pair
Let me hold your hands and kiss you
My dear on your lascivious lips
Let’s  club our feelings and make it one
We have lot to know and lot to do
My dear come close to me be by my side
The surf is sweeping  under our feet
Let me lift you and smooch you
To my hearts content
Lets enjoy this evening
And make a day to remember
In the days and years to come
She sits on the arenaceous beach
with her legs extended out in front
and her hands behind her back
as she takes in the glorious day.
The borrowed ocean slides off
of her glistening bronze stature
as the sand cushions her long legs
and penetrates her curling toes.
I'd give just about everything I had
just to shrink down to one foot tall;
So I could sit on her luxurious lap
and admire her beauty forever!
I don't know if Poetry Lover
(hereafter called plover,
a shore bird with short tail)
aspires to become a poet
or is your run-of-the-mill
poetaster (google it)
A bird that runs and hides
when it doesn't comprehend
a simple poem like a haiku
and pipes deleted words
like someone demented
come out, plover!
I stood on a sandy beach
on an April weekend.
The sun was shining bright
on each wave
that carried its reflection in.
The sky in the west
was filled with mottled clouds
and on occasional breaks;
the sun’s rays peaked through.
An easterly breeze
lifted the sand into little swirls
and carried them a short while
before depositing them down again,
as I walked along a sandy beach in April.
5 April 2008
Why not long walks on the beach
Whispering sweet nothings to each
Walking bare foot in the sand
Walking together hand in hand
Watching the waves come crashing in
Feeling the dampness on my skin
Feeling the gentle breeze on my face
One of god's beauties, what a wonderful place
Looking up towards all the stars
On this magic night, this will be all ours
Love the ocean once in a while
Forgetting your problems and making you smile!
At The Beach
You roll down the window
And even before you see it
You smell that salty, ocean scent
You already know your there
At the beach
Where the breeze is best
Where the sun is most powerful
Mother Nature’s birthplace
At the beach
There so much to do
Starting from building sand castles
To finding shells so odd looking
To riding tsunami on your surfboard
To tanning yourself like bread in the toaster
To fishing with your grandpa
To snorkeling with fish
To going on cruises
To riding a dolphin
Just so much to do
The list is as big as space
As long as infinity
At the beach
As you walk on the shore
You see the sky red as the sun sits on the water
You feel the sand filling the gaps between your toes
You hear the soothing sounds of the waves
At the beach
Some claim to see the most wondrous things
Like beautiful mermaids sitting on rocks
Or the mysterious Loch Ness Monster
And even the lost city of Atlantis
At the beach
There nothing better than the beach
Where beauty was given its name
Where Happiness cannot be expressed
At the beach
By: Khalid
Many have trod
this sandy beach
seeking for shells.
Along the shore
their footprints merge
in shifting sands.
Rising and falling
the ocean sighs
and washes all.
I stand alone
at water's edge.
I have no shells.
Looking back
I cannot tell
the way I came.
at the beach
building castles
all of sand
summer dusk
a mockingbird mimics
Debussy's l'après-midi
both of these were published by paper wasp, a journla of haiku, in the summer 2009 issue
At your side, I will stand, together we'll walk, through the sand. With the setting sun, and a summer breeze, reflecting our love, on the open seas. A walk on the beach, I will share, hand in hand, we walk with care. Making our hearts, strong and brave, along with the passions, of thee ocean waves. Together in love, our souls will teach, and guide our future, as we walk on the beach. For I am in love...
The largest stones are piled against the sea-wall
since that huge storm, a hundred years ago.
For the sea will never leave the beach alone –
might you think it would fling
the smallest stones the furthest?
No – to re-assert its power,
it challenges the heftiest resistance,
with inexhaustible, ruthless determination
rolling, thrusting, flinging in impatient storm
the largest, furthest; then grading with such patient delicacy
over the years, the smooth but fine-scratched stones
of so many colours – how can it have found,
how long for it to find, so many lucent colours of wet stone?
These sometime finds – searching with a child’s fine eye –
of purest  pebbled marble - how many thousand miles
has the sea rolled these from southern shores?
And these smooth stones of reddest brick,
or rubbed, etched glass? Or ancient serpentine,
bright green?
Then after a night of wildest storm,
the air intoxicating with its ozone,
new treasures thrown up on the beach:
green glass globes from fishing nets,
cork mats, boat wood, torn seaweed
in thick chunks like beached, exhausted octopods;
the beach re-shaped; even some parabolas of sand
while the seethe… keesh… of the dying storm
draws incessantly, then spews the finest shingle
in its maw like a hungry concrete-mixer.
The beach spreads out its shining, wet
new treasure for the child-bright eye.
This afternoon, the rock pools will be full;
all will be new; sea-god a child again.
Pebbles on the beach
Pierce through our heels as we walk
A mild price to pay
For the damage we subject
It to by littering waste.
18th October 2006
7.14 pm
Beach, beach,
Here is Puri
Here is Lord of all
Here is humanity
Here is shortage of time.
Beach, beach,
Here on this beach
See so many shops,
Camel, horse
Here see shopkeepers.
I like this beach
I like as because
Beach is here within
My own life swallowed by rivers.
Softly and humbly to the Gulf of Arabs
The convoys of dead sailors come;
At night they sway and wander in the waters far under,
But morning rolls them in the foam.
Between the sob and clubbing of the gunfire
Someone, it seems, has time for this,
To pluck them from the shallows and bury them in burrows
And tread the sand upon their nakedness;
And each cross, the driven stake of tidewood,
Bears the last signature of men,
Written with such perplexity, with such bewildered pity,
The words choke as they begin -
'Unknown seaman' - the ghostly pencil
Wavers and fades, the purple drips,
The breath of wet season has washed their inscriptions
As blue as drowned men's lips,
Dead seamen, gone in search of the same landfall,
Whether as enemies they fought,
Or fought with us, or neither; the sand joins them together,
Enlisted on the other front.
_______________________________________ ______
German Translation
Strandbegräbnis
Ergeben und sanft zum Golf der Araber
Kommen die Konvois der toten Matrosen;
Nachts irren sie schwankend im Wasser tief unten,
Doch der Morgen läßt sie im Schaum rollen.
Zwischen dem Schluchzen und Knüppeln von Geschützen
Hat jemand, so scheint es, die Zeit gefunden,
Sie an seichten Stellen aufzusammeln und in Reihen zu begraben
Und den Sand über ihrer Nacktheit festzutreten;
Und jedes Kreuz, ein getriebener Pfahl aus Treibholz,
Trägt die letzte Unterschrift eines Mannes,
Geschrieben mit solcher Bestürzung, mit solch verwirrtem Mitleid,
Die Worte ersticken, sobald sie beginnen -
“Unbekannter Seemann“ - der gespenstische Stift
Zittert und verblaßt, das Purpur tropft,
Der Atem der nassen Jahreszeit hat jede Inschrift
Blau wie die Lippen der Ertrunkenen gefärbt,
Tote Seemänner, fort, denselben Landfall zu suchen,
Wo sie sich als Feinde bekämpft,
Oder mit uns kämpften, oder keines davon, im Sand jetzt zusammen,
Angeworben an der anderen Front.
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the setting sun
holding hands and reminiscing
how it all begun
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the ships out on the sea
holding hands and smiling
together we're meant to be
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching people walking past
holding hands and knowing
that our love will always last
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the waves along the shore
holding hands we realize
our love is stronger than before
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the changing tide
holding hands with happiness
to be by each others side
Sitting on the beach chairs
watching the sunrise
holding hands with tears of joy
there are no more good-byes
footprints of sandpipers
were so transient
the sea a sandwiper
where it came and went
Silver white sands spill from my hands
As they flow the grip tightening shows
They cannot be contained, they cant be owned
Each individual, yet collectively as one
Stand and be judged under the conceited sun
Cast no shadow on the beach of doubt
There are always answers all about
Try as you may some will only dismay
There is no easy in this world so queasy
Let not pride wash with the foregoing tide
While you dwell.. find the hidden prize shell
A memory, a keepsake for not to forsake
The past is spent, the future is in the ever-present
Hesitate and all is lost, make haste at all cost
The world for the living awaits no one
When all is said and done…..
(C)  Damien D
While you walk the water's edge,
turning over concepts
I can't envision, the honking buoy
serves notice that at any time
the wind may change,
the reef-bell clatters
its treble monotone, deaf as Cassandra
to any note but warning. The ocean,
cumbered by no business more urgent
than keeping open old accounts
that never balanced,
goes on shuffling its millenniums
of quartz, granite, and basalt.
It behaves
toward the permutations of novelty—
driftwood and shipwreck, last night's
beer cans, spilt oil, the coughed-up
residue of plastic—with random
impartiality, playing catch or tag
ot touch-last like a terrier,
turning the same thing over and over,
over and over. For the ocean, nothing
is beneath consideration.
The houses
of so many mussels and periwinkles
have been abandoned here, it's hopeless
to know which to salvage. Instead
I keep a lookout for beach glass—
amber of Budweiser, chrysoprase
of Almadén and Gallo, lapis
by way of (no getting around it,
I'm afraid)  Phillips'
Milk of Magnesia, with now and then a rare
translucent turquoise or blurred amethyst
of no known origin.
The process
goes on forever: they came from sand,
they go back to gravel,
along with treasuries
of Murano, the buttressed
astonishments of Chartres,
which even now are readying
for being turned over and over as gravely
and gradually as an intellect
engaged in the hazardous
redefinition of structures
no one has yet looked at.
On the beach of dreams, we sit
watching a never setting sun.
Never wondering how long
our love will last,
or how much time, we have.
Our dreams stretch out forever
like our love my dear.
Our hearts beat as one
whenever you are near.
Each day as the sun rises,
I want to return to the beach.
The beach of dreams,
which both of us share.
17 March 2008
Beach
Sunny, warm
Quiet, calm, wonderful
A place to think
Vacation
Fine, warm sand under the skin;
breeze playing with the long hair;
seagull`s yells and distant babel;
she feels invisible - stretched
on the overcrowded beach;
innocent, bare-back Eve
from the holy Bible.
As I walk along the deserted beach
I feel the damp sand surronding my feet
I feel the cool relaxing breeze creep up upon me with ease
As I look out at the restless waves my thoughts unwind like restless days
The beach is a very quiet and calming place
beach volleyball today.
you wear your cap
to protect you from the sun.
you wear your beach shorts
blue shorts with big white flowers
prints.
you walk barefoot.
and then you decide to walk straight
to the internet cafe.
and you are here now.
you do not like
anybody else.
cruel world. hot sun. your flight
is still tomorrow morning.
another loud night.
an impatient self trying to be
completely silent.
shut.
there is something about the ocean
that brings out the earth-mother in me
it is a place i love to go to write or
to ponder life's mysteries
being out in the ocean with
the waves spraying over me
feels something of a baptism
a cleansing of my soul's debris
the beach has a magnificent beauty
that never ceases to amaze me
and makes me feel one with the earth
in rhythmn and harmony
i realize as i look out to sea
how very small i really must be
in the overall scheme of things
i love the sea for it brings
out the spirituality in me
the feeling of being totally free
like seagulls overhead and
the sand underneath my feet
or the engulfing sun warming me
to get down to the nitty-gritty
the sea is a poet's paradise to me
Paradise is the word,
no other to be called,
a beach like no other
The Sun here is to Shy
Shy! My SunShine
Delray, Delray Beach!
The Paradise...So easy to find...
So dear to me, for so long in my past,
You the Beach I desired...
And there you Are,
Always, day and night,
Beautiful Delray,
Open as no other heart
Safe, protected, Welcoming...
Love, My Beach, My Delray,
The City I call Home!
I am walking along a street, on soft asphalt,  and
I am sticking heels  into the zebra.
of the marquise on the other side firmly heated up.
the crescent shaped  bun stuffed with the chocolate
is swimming in the shop, from the warmth,
one moment, and I will  wet my legs  at the edge,
and then, I will catch myself crests of wave
swimming of up on down, and  I will  feel  blissful chill.
now, one bend and...welcomes me auriferous familiar
sand.your glasses, are covering with half a face.
but I can see the smile, from a distance,  it is not...
a duplicate...
One of my fav poemzz.......
The sea is calm to-night.
The tide is full, the moon lies fair
Upon the straits; on the French coast the light
Gleams and is gone; the cliffs of England stand;
Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay.
Come to the window, sweet is the night-air!
Only, from the long line of spray
Where the sea meets the moon-blanched land,
Listen! you hear the grating roar
Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling,
At their return, up the high strand,
Begin, and cease, and then again begin,
With tremulous cadence slow, and bring
The eternal note of sadness in.
Sophocles long ago
Heard it on the A gaean, and it brought
Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow
Of human misery; we
Find also in the sound a thought,
Hearing it by this distant northern sea.
The Sea of Faith
Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore
Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furled.
But now I only hear
Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar,
Retreating, to the breath
Of the night-wind, down the vast edges drear
And naked shingles of the world.
Ah, love, let us be true
To one another! for the world, which seems
To lie before us like a land of dreams,
So various, so beautiful, so new,
Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light,
Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain;
And we are here as on a darkling plain
Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight,
Where ignorant armies clash by night.
The sea is calm to-night.
The tide is full, the moon lies fair
Upon the straits; - on the French coast the light
Gleams and is gone; the cliffs of England stand,
Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay.
Come to the window, sweet is the night-air!
Only, from the long line of spray
Where the sea meets the moon-blanch'd land,
Listen! you hear the grating roar
Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling,
At their return, up the high strand,
Begin, and cease, and then again begin,
With tremulous cadence slow, and bring
The eternal note of sadness in.
Sophocles long ago
Heard it on the {AE}gean, and it brought
Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow
Of human misery; we
Find also in the sound a thought,
Hearing it by this distant northern sea.
The Sea of Faith
Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore
Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd.
But now I only hear
Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar,
Retreating, to the breath
Of the night-wind, down the vast edges drear
And naked shingles of the world.
Ah, love, let us be true
To one another! for the world, which seems
To lie before us like a land of dreams,
So various, so beautiful, so new,
Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light,
Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain;
And we are here as on a darkling plain
Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight,
Where ignorant armies clash by night.
As shingle slides upon the shore
this gentle summer night, we stroll,
the great bear pointing to the pole
as if to prove what stars are for.
A far light winks once then is gone
as shingle slides upon the shore;
impermanence we know is law
and, hand in hand, we wander on
bemused by moonlight on the sea
and troubled by a distant war;
as shingle slides upon the shore
I turn to you and you to me
and though, above, the jet-planes roar,
the universe has come to be
a moon that's mirrored in the sea
as shingle slides upon the shore.
Come praise unnecessary wars, although
Videos and narratives must disprove
Theses of  conspiracy theorists, who
Govern us from their pretended love
Of Freedom, and Democracy.  Rhetoric
Trumps reality, no facts must interfere
With their Dominion.   Never dare connect
Belief with fact, lest then there should appear
Black helicopters, agents unidentified
Who confiscate your dreams, and then deride
Plain evidence.  Time is not on your side,
You poets!   Write of waves and tides
That echo on some distant, white-cliffed shore -
Rattling pebbles,  gestures, winds -  no more.
2006
Down to the beach
Down to the beach
On a sunny day we go
Beach bags packed with sun screen lotions
Hands rubbing people’s backs in slow motion
Glistening oily bodies radiating with sensation
Down to the beach
Down to the beach
Where a chilly sea breeze blows
Let’s have some fun
In the red-hot sun
Down to the beach
Only there the ladies reveal saucy behinds
Whenever the raging sun is still kind
Down to the beach
As never-ceasing waves play across the shores
People happily play dreading any rainy downpour
Down to the beach
Where young lovers closely nestle
As sand creatures cause the sand to bristle
Seagulls gliding in the air with screams and whistles
Kids picking up shells and building stormy sand castles
Down to the beach
Where mostly good vibes flow
Down to the beach
We go whilst there is still sun without snow
Sylviachidi.com
Little surfer chic
Cleaning out my clock.
Including a schematic,
Of your sensory socks.
Please care to move your foot
While
Rubbing round my leg,
Like a little surfer chic
Stroking it again.
Your sitting on a wave
Or riding my surf board
And I’m a shark in your ocean
While you swim from the shore.
Little hippy chic
I’ll rest my jaws on you
A playful bite
Of  a white
Whose ballast
Floats here too.
So little surfer girl
take a trip to your beach
And I’ll dig your hole
With my shovel
Until the ocean I’ve reached.
Copyright (c)       David DeSantis
IT is a beauteous evening, calm and free,
The holy time is quiet as a Nun
Breathless with adoration; the broad sun
Is sinking down in its tranquillity;
The gentleness of heaven broods o'er the sea:
Listen! the mighty Being is awake,
And doth with his eternal motion make
A sound like thunder--everlastingly.
Dear Child! dear Girl! that walkest with me here,
If thou appear untouch'd by solemn thought,
Thy nature is not therefore less divine:
Thou liest in Abraham's bosom all the year;
And worshipp'st at the Temple's inner shrine,
God being with thee when we know it not.
In his tenth July some instinct
taught him to arm the waiting wave,
a giant where its mouth hung open.
He rode on the lip that buoyed him there
and buckled him under. The beach was strung
with children paddling their ages in,
under the glare od noon chipping
its light out. He stood up, anonymous
and straight among them, between
their sand pails and nursery crafts.
The breakers cartwheeled in and over
to puddle their toes and test their perfect
skin. He was my brother, my small
Johnny brother, almost ten. We flopped
down upon a towel to grind the sand
under us and watched the Atlantic sea
move fire, like night sparklers;
and lost our weight in the festival
season. He dreamed, he said, to be
a man designed like a balanced wave…
how someday he would wait, giant
and straight.
Johnny, your dream moves summers
inside my mind.
He was tall and twenty that July,
but there was no balance to help;
only the shells came straight and even.
This was the first beach of assault;
the odor of death hung in the air
like rotting potatoes, the junkyard
of landing craft waited open and rusting.
The bodies were strung out as if they were
still reaching for each other, where they lay
to blacken, to burst through their perfect
skin. And Johnny Pole was one of them.
He gave in like a small wave, a sudden
hole in his belly and the years all gone
where the Pacific noon chipped its light out.
Like a bean bag, outflung, head loose
and anonymous, he lay. Did the sea move fire
for its battle season? Does he lie there
forever, where his rifle waits, giant
and straight?…I think you die again
and live again,
Johnny, each summer that moves inside
my mind.
(Nonasyllabics)
In retrospect the tragic nature
of sea is a taste wept too daily,
too depleted by freedom's rupture;
the eyes have other secrets to see
and deeper use for the detritus
within us: the bright effluvium
of ego dries up, mired as it is
in wealth, that remedial medium.
Blame it on fate, on beach memories--
pebble put in the pocket or shell
fragments; any memento carries
us as much as we it. Time capsule
contains every evening's interval.
The ocean observes its own puddle.
Palilan, Jimenez, Misamis Ocidental
circa 1996
here
sit on this shore
watch the silver tips
of the rumbling waves
pushed by the wind
who do not hold back
their wings
and forever bidding goodbyes
and forever abandoning my old blues
and are probably concerned
THE SUNLIGHT glitters keen and bright,
Where, miles away,
Lies stretching to my dazzled sight
A luminous belt, a misty light,
Beyond the dark pine bluffs and wastes of sandy gray.
The tremulous shadow of the Sea!
Against its ground
Of silvery light, rock, hill, and tree,
Still as a picture, clear and free,
With varying outline mark the coast for miles around.
On—on—we tread with loose-flung rein
Our seaward way,
Through dark-green fields and blossoming grain,
Where the wild brier-rose skirts the lane,
And bends above our heads the flowering locust spray.
Ha! like a kind hand on my brow
Comes this fresh breeze,
Cooling its dull and feverish glow,
While through my being seems to flow
The breath of a new life, the healing of the seas!
Now rest we, where this grassy mound
His feet hath set
In the great waters, which have bound
His granite ankles greenly round
With long and tangled moss, and weeds with cool spray wet.
Good-by to Pain and Care! I take
Mine ease to-day
Here where these sunny waters break,
And ripples this keen breeze, I shake
All burdens from the heart, all weary thoughts away.
I draw a freer breath, I seem
Like all I see—
Waves in the sun—the white-winged gleam—
Of sea-birds in the slanting beam—
And far-off sails which flit before the south-wind free.
So when Time’s veil shall fall asunder,
The soul may know
No fearful change, nor sudden wonder,
Nor sink the weight of mystery under,
But with the upward rise, and with the vastness grow.
And all we shrink from now may seem
No new revealing;
Familiar as our childhood’s stream,
Or pleasant memory of a dream
The loved and cherished Past upon the new life stealing.
Serene and mild the untried light
May have its dawning;
And, as in summer’s northern night
The evening and the dawn unite,
The sunset hues of Time blend with the soul’s new morning.
I sit alone; in foam and spray
Wave after wave
Breaks on the rocks which, stern and gray,
Shoulder the broken tide away,
Or murmurs hoarse and strong through mossy cleft and cave.
What heed I of the dusty land
And noisy town?
I see the mighty deep expand
From its white line of glimmering sand
To where the blue of heaven on bluer waves shuts down!
In listless quietude of mind,
I yield to all
The change of cloud and wave and wind
And passive on the flood reclined,
I wander with the waves, and with them rise and fall.
But look, thou dreamer! —wave and shore
In shadow lie;
The night-wind warns me back once more
To where, my native hill-tops o’er,
Bends like an arch of fire the glowing sunset sky.
So then, beach, bluff, and wave, farewell!
I bear with me
No token stone nor glittering shell,
But long and oft shall Memory tell
Of this brief thoughtful hour of musing by the Sea.
As we walked along the beach, crashing waves
thundered in our ears and a light, salted mist,
dampened our lips.
The sun began to set and the voice of the beach,
traveled across the ocean waves.
'I am the beach, and here you shall find peace.
I am the beach, here you shall find love.
In this domain, my beach, the answers you
search for, could very well be found here.
For at this beach, there is much,
that has been revealed.
The sparkled, white grains of sand, that blanket
this beach, has been a bed of comfort, to many.
Pause, as you come upon this beach, and listen
to the symphony of waves and the chorus of
birds, singing their song, as they glide in the wind.
Feel the power of this beach, as it seems to
renew your inner being. You need not question
the beach and its mystical powers. For as
millions before you have found, the beach...
and its magical transference to one...have
existed, since the beginning of time.
Be not troubled, for the beach is close at
hand. You need only to deliver your strife,
to the tranquility of the beach and it shall
be exercised from you.
When you go from this beach...leave with
the peace that you have found here.'
© Joe Fazio
somewhere in my darkness there was a spark
today it ignited rare thoughts of you
only seconds before....
I had stuck the cold barrel of a gun
directly beneath the gap in my front teeth
and into the far reaches of my
ninety proof alcohol drenched mouth
squeezing the cheeks of my ass tighter
so as not to blow my brains onto the floor
I steadied my trembling hand
wishing instead
to paint the walls and ceiling
with all that remained of my love
___a masterpiece for martyrs
my humanity
I had drained with my last piss
death was inviting me over
for one last drink of my own self pity
I was ready to accept its invitation
when somewhere in my darkness
there was that tiny little spark
which ignited rare thoughts of you
.....it was then I knew I didn't want to die
without you Bitch
On a summer break
Do not read your law books
It is a chance for you
To the see the moon
In boracay beach
I saw from the beach, when the morning was shining,
A bark o'er the waters move gloriously on;
I came when the sun o'er that beach was declining,
The bark was still there, but the waters were gone.
And such is the fate of our life's early promise,
So passing the spring-tide of joy we have known;
Each wave that we danced on at morning ebbs from us,
And leaves us, at eve, on the bleak shore alone.
Oh, who would not welcome that moment's returning
When passion first waked a new life through his frame,
And his soul, like the wood that grows precious in burning,
Gave out all its sweets to love's exquisite flame.
Plash…keesh… plash…keesh
the waves throw themselves
onto the pebbly beach,
but as if they regret their own angry generosity,
pull back a sieved undertow of finer pebbles
mixed with rogh toe-grating sand;
their generosity the swathe of larger pebbles
which gleam like jewels, before the salt-water
dries them into centuries of scratched, scoured surface,
dull as familiarity.
That swathe of jewels – magic to a child;
but now I’m older, yields a mental miracle
of nature ceaselessly at work:
green bottle-glass pebble –  rounded to a smooth, safe shape
for the child to spot and pick up –
that’s easy to trace:  from fishermen’s magic globes, the net-floats,
or bottles thrown  carelessly overboard
on some romantic cruise..
white chalk – that’s easy too: final shape
whose roundness may resist at last the restless sea
chewing away at Dover’s so emotive cliffs;
just the right size for a tiny fist
to write on concrete; it could write but scratch
that slate or blackboard with its ABC.
a gorgeous mottled red: as if from pillar
of some exotic Eastern temple; a closer look
suggests some mighty compression of the earth
that’s left a substance just about halfway
between soft Devon clay and harder granite;
and here a softer red; shaped from some brick
the sea has stolen from some poor defence;
but that will write too, stir a first artistic effort
setting off the white; but leave a trace of itself
on that small, tight fist;
now the shades of green – the hardest stone,
serpentine, which glows when wet or waxed:
how long did this stone take
to shape – and then to roll on ocean floor
from distant shore and ancient mountain range?
a whole range of semi-transparent yellow-browns,
agate and suchlike, best when wet; their structure
easily breaks down, too small for fun;
but here’s a slatey grey, veined with white, as if
some modern sculptor had seen its possible potential,
smoothed it with a loving hand; nature,
says the aesthete, meeting art..
the occasional alabaster sparkler just survives;
so dull now, that you’ll need to smash it first;
but here’s the pride of all this sea-tossed mile of treasure trove:
a ravishing, smooth, moon-white marble, maiden aristocrat;
how long, how far, to roll and sieve this
like some ageless prospector sieving for gold or diamond?
what Greek palace tipped by an earthquake
into a blue Aegean sea? Into the crummy pocket of the shorts
that one goes, to line up with its kinsfolk
on the window-sill..
a sea-shore (you can hear it in the word itself..) ,
a beach, a child with blowing hair and eager eyes;
these two spell happiness; live nature’s most compatible.
"Tie stille, barn min!
Imorgen kommer Fin,
Fa'er din,
Og gi'er dich Esbern Snares öine og hjerte at lege med!"
Zealand Rhyme.
"BUILD at Kallundborg by the sea
A church as stately as church may be,
And there shalt thou wed my daughter fair,"
Said the Lord of Nesvek to Esbern Snare.
And the Baron laughed. But Esbern said,
"Though I lose my soul, I will Helva wed!"
And off he strode, in his pride of will,
To the Troll who dwelt in Ulshoi hill.
"Build, O Troll, a church for me
At Kallundborg by the mighty sea;
Build it stately, and build it fair,
Build it quickly," said Esbern Snare.
But the sly Dwarf said, "No work is wrought
By Trolls of the Hills, O man, for naught.
What wilt thou give for thy church so fair?"
"Set thy own price," quoth Esbern Snare.
"When Kallundborg church is builded well,
Thou must the name of its builder tell,
Or thy heart and thy eyes must be my boon."
"Build," said Esbern, "and build it soon."
By night and by day the Troll wrought on;
He hewed the timbers, he piled the stone;
But day by day, as the walls rose fair,
Darker and sadder grew Esbern Snare.
He listened by night, he watched by day,
He sought and thought, but he dared not pray;
In vain he called on the Elle-maids shy,
And the Neck and the Nis gave no reply.
Of his evil bargain far and wide
A rumor ran through the country-side;
And Helva of Nesvek, young and fair,
Prayed for the soul of Esbern Snare.
And now the church was wellnigh done;
One pillar it lacked, and one alone;
And the grim Troll muttered, "Fool thou art!
To-morrow gives me thy eyes and heart!"
By Kallundborg in black despair,
Through wood and meadow, walked Esbern Snare,
Till, worn and weary, the strong man sank
Under the birches on Ulshoi bank.
At his last day's work he heard the Troll
Hammer and delve in the quarry's hole;
Before him the church stood large and fair:
"I have builded my tomb," said Esbern Snare.
And he closed his eyes the sight to hide,
When he heard a light step at his side:
"O Esbern Snare! a sweet voice said,
"Would I might die now in thy stead!"
With a grasp by love and by fear made strong,
He held her fast, and he held her long;
With the beating heart of a bird afeard,
She hid her face in his flame-red beard.
"O love!" he cried, "let me look to-day
In thine eyes ere mine are plucked away;
Let me hold thee close, let me feel thy heart
Ere mine by the Troll is torn apart!
"I sinned, O Helva, for love of thee!
Pray that the Lord Christ pardon me!"
But fast as she prayed, and faster still,
Hammered the Troll in Ulshoi hill.
He knew, as he wrought, that a loving heart
Was somehow baffling his evil art;
For more than spell of Elf or Troll
Is a maiden's prayer for her lover's soul.
And Esbern listened, and caught the sound
Of a Troll-wife singing underground:
"To-morrow comes Fine, father thine:
Lie still and hush thee, baby mine!
"Lie still, my darling! next sunrise
Thou'lt play with Esbern Snare's heart and eyes!"
"Ho! ho!" quoth Esbern, "is that your game?
Thanks to the Troll-wife, I know his name!"
The Troll he heard him, and hurried on
To Kallundborg church with the lacking stone.
"Too late, Gaffer Fine!" cried Esbern Snare;
And Troll and pillar vanished in air!
That night the harvesters heard the sound
Of a woman sobbing underground,
And the voice of the Hill-Troll loud with blame
Of the careless singer who told his name.
Of the Troll of the Church they sing the rune
By the Northern Sea in the harvest moon;
And the fishers of Zealand hear him still
Scolding his wife in Ulshoi hill.
And seaward over its groves of birch
Still looks the tower of Kallundborg church
Where, first at its altar, a wedded pair,
Stood Helva of Nesvek and Esbern Snare!
just hold my hand, love
lead me to heaven
under the stars
by the side of the sea,
just sit by my side, love
and let our eyes say our thoughts
fingers in the sand
spell out your love for me
listen to the waves, love
as they strike against the rocks
they drum out a message
of your love just for me
just hold my hand tightly love
lead me to the cove
our special secret place
for all eternity
just hold me in your arms, love
let my ears hear your heart
it beats strong and loud
it beats for only me
just gaze at the stars, love
as they twinkle in the twilight
they fllash a special morse code
that sings your love for me
as the shadows lengthen, love
and the sun enters the sea
your fingers in my hair
love me warm and tenderly
the moon has risen high, love
your beloved face so silvery
joy shines out from within your eyes
as my lashes close langourously
just you and me love
no one else, only the warm blue sea
golden sands, swaying palms
only you and only me
just hold my hand, love
lead me to heaven
under the stars
by the side of the sea,
just sit by my side, love
and let our eyes say our thoughts
fingers in the sand
spell out your love for me
listen to the waves, love
as they strike against the rocks
they drum out a message
of your love just for me
just hold my hand tightly love
lead me to the cove
our special secret place
for all eternity
just hold me in your arms, love
let my ears hear your heart
it beats strong and loud
it beats for only me
just gaze at the stars, love
as they twinkle in the twilight
they fllash a special morse code
that sings your love for me
as the shadows lengthen, love
and the sun enters the sea
your fingers in my hair
love me warm and tenderly
the moon has risen high, love
your beloved face so silvery
joy shines out from within your eyes
as my lashes close langourously
just you and me love
no one else, only the warm blue sea
golden sands, swaying palms
only you and only me
< br>
just hold my hand, love
lead me to heaven
under the stars
by the side of the sea,
just sit by my side, love
and let our eyes say our thoughts
fingers in the sand
spell out your love for me
listen to the waves, love
as they strike against the rocks
they drum out a message
of your love just for me
just hold my hand tightly love
lead me to the cove
our special secret place
for all eternity
just hold me in your arms, love
let my ears hear your heart
it beats strong and loud
it beats for only me
just gaze at the stars, love
as they twinkle in the twilight
they fllash a special morse code
that sings your love for me
as the shadows lengthen, love
and the sun enters the sea
your fingers in my hair
love me warm and tenderly
the moon has risen high, love
your beloved face so silvery
joy shines out from within your eyes
as my lashes close langourously
just you and me love
no one else, only the warm blue sea
golden sands, swaying palms
only you and only me
just hold my hand, love
lead me to heaven
under the stars
by the side of the sea,
just sit by my side, love
and let our eyes say our thoughts
fingers in the sand
spell out your love for me
listen to the waves, love
as they strike against the rocks
they drum out a message
of your love just for me
just hold my hand tightly love
lead me to the cove
our special secret place
for all eternity
just hold me in your arms, love
let my ears hear your heart
it beats strong and loud
it beats for only me
just gaze at the stars, love
as they twinkle in the twilight
they fllash a special morse code
that sings your love for me
as the shadows lengthen, love
and the sun enters the sea
your fingers in my hair
love me warm and tenderly
the moon has risen high, love
your beloved face so silvery
joy shines out from within your eyes
as my lashes close langourously
just you and me love
no one else, only the warm blue sea
golden sands, swaying palms
only you and only me
Cloudless the day with blue vaulting it's way
Into the air and sea. Running the length
Of the cove and foaming at breakpoint, swaying
Wavelets, their cotton-wool edgings resenting
Speed, shushed by the tide, begin gentle ride
To shore with lullaby sound, they reach ground
And flatten, soundlessly. Canoes come gliding
The length of the shimmering bay, around
Yachts, tacking in breeze, and all become one
With the flickering diamond-struck cove, millpond
Still, and quiet today, Meadfoot beach shone.
Cafe' chairs askew, we laughed as fondly,
Owners training young dog tried practising
Alongside sandy waves, but puppy,  foam-
Struck, chased away when called, and came back
Dancing wet delight,  so was taken home.
As children battled to keep castles dry
From tide, I head home, whispering goodbye.
We went to the beach to get wind in our hair
to stand on the sand and simply to stare.
To let the surf tickle toes and dampen our clothes
as we played 'run away'
from the wavelets at play.
We went to the beach to climb on the rocks
find cool shallow pools where we'd take of our socks,
and peer in the waters to see what we might find
that the waves of the sea,
had last left behind.
We went to the beach to find coloured shells
the kind that when placed to our ears
make the sound of the ocean appear,
and gathered rocks that we never would find
in the places we walked,
for most of the time.
We went to the beach and all that, we did find
and the smell of the salt refreshed our tired minds.
I'll never forget the laughter and sounds
and the freedom to run,
on that wet sandy ground.
We went to the beach my family and I
and there we were one,
with the ocean, the beach, and the sky.
To the beach, my dog and I run,
Play catch frisbees, just for fun.
Umbrella's to block the sun,
Waves crash upon the sand.
My dog chases gulls that try to land. Sky so blue, sand so white,
My dog and I, were up at daylight.
Winds are warm and blowing slight,
Ocean sprays, dog strays,
Sand blows, through our toes. It gets cool, the sun goes down,
My dog and I, head back to town.
It's time we leave the beach to rest.
After all, we were just a guest.
All the birds have flown away.
We will come back, another day.
Just me and my dog, to play.
When Mother was a young girl,
what would she have felt
to be shown how her life would turn out—
her husband and sons,
and how things went with the family,
later a grandchild dead at 13,
four surviving to bring in
still another generation?
When she was on the beach, say,
in Atlantic City in that picture from the'30s,
skin fair and fresh as apple flesh,
looking into the camera
like a comet at a sky
it's about to cross?
Could she have seen
the crone she is at 85,
Or leaving her beloved east coast
for a life in the midwest?
I don't think so. Nor
the dignity life has conferred upon her
through hard choices
and tears.
My Garden—like the Beach—
Denotes there be—a Sea—
That's Summer—
Such as These—the Pearls
She fetches—such as Me
Along side the sea shore I walk,
Alone, none by my side to talk,
Every evening in the Juhu Beach,
Very near my house to reach.
On the sands, Policemen in the jeep,
A vigil, up and down, they keep,
For the safety, in their daily rounds,
Of the visiting tourists.
The hot spicy fast food vendors,
Sell the food to their customers,
With pungent smell of different sorts,
From their glass case moving carts,
Some kids build a sand castle.
Some dig deep pits with a tussle.
Some play cricket, the players
Unmindful of the beach walkers.
Some, for a swim, jump into the sea,
Some stand, with fear, near the sea,
Some pick up fresh shells in the water
And yet others throw rubbish into the water.
Young couples hug each other,
As they move, step by step, closer,
Into their own imaginary paradise,
Not caring for other's prejudice.
Fishermen with their pricy catch,
Looking for a fair price to fetch,
Dock their boats on the pitch,
Marked reserved for them each.
A group of retired old men,
Busy on subjects in common,
Talk about their days bygone,
And pristine glories one by one.
I, for one, go on my own way,
On the wet side of the bay,
Keeping my view on the seaside,
And the landside panorama aside.
The red ball of the setting sun,
Descending slowly into the horizon,
Appear to drown itself in the sea, Arabian,
Before the eyes of men and women.
For a moment my imagination,
Runs riot now and then,
To the sea what'll happen
When this scene becomes a real one?
Then will there be a sea
For any one of us to see?
Or will the earth survive
For any one of us to live?
What is seen goes unbelievable!
What is unseen is believable!
The ways of nature are quite funny
And appear to be deceptive really!
Early one evening
I caught the lore
Of the fresh air
From the calm sea shore
I crept out of bed
Then out of the house
I made not a sound
Just like a mouse
I walked down the path
On to the sand
Loving the sea
And the layer of the land
I walked to the water
My feet felt it splash
I listen to the birds
And the waves crash
I looked in the distance
The suns going down
I backed from the water
And sat on the ground
The skies changing colors
From purple violet to red
I sat back resting
Relaxing my head
The sky continued to change
Every color shades
Every color bright and vivid
Not a one cascades
Orange yellow white
To gray
Theses beautiful colors
End another day
I watch the night
Slowly enter
Feeling as though
I’m in the center
I feel relaxed
Fully at peace
Watching the night
Fully increase
The colors are gone
The night is now black
I can’t wait till tomorrow
When the colors come back
I lay there awhile
Then get up and start walking
Stars shining bright
The crickets now talking
Of the sun setting colors I think
As I lay back in my bed
Their beauty their shade and their life
All relaxing inside of my head
Hmm... such a fresh air I smell
On the beach of the dreamland,
Hmm… the sun seems to fit so well,
On the mantel of the golden sand.
Look… the sea is inviting me,
To bath in the kingdom of mermaids,
This is the only place it seems to be
The perfect spot for lovers and their maids.
Oh… I can see a couple having fun,
And I can see the children stand,
Under the hot and shiny sun,
Building lovely castles from the sand.
And as for me, I’ll let them be,
I’m going to have another peach,
My piña colada is waiting for me,
While I’ll write my poem on the Negrils beach.
27/02/08
a nude beach
looks like fun
yet my pale moon
should never see the sun
but to my pleading wife
I gave in at last
and now my life
is a pain in the ass.
Omaha Beach.
Who fought for freedom there?
Was there a single coward
or were they all like me?
La Liberté, they sang,
as bullets from those Mausers
brought their own deadly welcome.
What if they gave a war
a question full of logic,
and not a single soul
would show his frightened face.
On A Far Away Beach At Dawn
Your face is etched in the stars that dot a sky about to lose its black
Mirrored as a reflection on a luminous sheet of sea at low tide
The image skittered like sand pipers dissolving as the first rays
Of an impatient sun scattered light on the slate gray sand
A harsh westerly blew to shore and slapped my face
Assails my nose with the briny redolence of shoreline waste
From afar clam diggers sat on empty pails digging and
Poking with bamboo spatulas the water logged sand
I heard your voice mingle with the twittering of the shore birds
As they skipped and darted leaving their v marks on the glistening sand
I thought of my easy chair, my garden, I thought of your smile...of home
A harsh westerly slapped my face, a briny redolence assailed my nose.
On a rocky beach
I fished my fresh fish
From that rocky beach
Some time ago
Wind whines and whines the shingle,
The crazy pierstakes groan;
A senile sea numbers each single
Slimesilvered stone.
From whining wind and colder
Grey sea I wrap him warm
And touch his trembling fineboned shoulder
And boyish arm.
Around us fear, descending
Darkness of fear above
And in my heart how deep unending
Ache of love!
ON the beach at night alone,
As the old mother sways her to and fro, singing her husky song,
As I watch the bright stars shining--I think a thought of the clef of
the universes, and of the future.
A VAST SIMILITUDE interlocks all,
All spheres, grown, ungrown, small, large, suns, moons, planets,
comets, asteroids,
All the substances of the same, and all that is spiritual upon the
same,
All distances of place, however wide,
All distances of time--all inanimate forms,
All Souls--all living bodies, though they be ever so different, or in
different worlds,
All gaseous, watery, vegetable, mineral processes--the fishes, the
brutes,                                                      10
All men and women--me also;
All nations, colors, barbarisms, civilizations, languages;
All identities that have existed, or may exist, on this globe, or any
globe;
All lives and deaths--all of the past, present, future;
This vast similitude spans them, and always has spann'd, and shall
forever span them, and compactly hold them, and enclose them.
ON the beach, at night,
Stands a child, with her father,
Watching the east, the autumn sky.
Up through the darkness,
While ravening clouds, the burial clouds, in black masses spreading,
Lower, sullen and fast, athwart and down the sky,
Amid a transparent clear belt of ether yet left in the east,
Ascends, large and calm, the lord-star Jupiter;
And nigh at hand, only a very little above,
Swim the delicate brothers, the Pleiades.                          10
From the beach, the child, holding the hand of her father,
Those burial-clouds that lower, victorious, soon to devour all,
Watching, silently weeps.
Weep not, child,
Weep not, my darling,
With these kisses let me remove your tears;
The ravening clouds shall not long be victorious,
They shall not long possess the sky- shall devour the stars only in
apparition:
Jupiter shall emerge- be patient- watch again another night- the
Pleiades shall emerge,
They are immortal- all those stars, both silvery and golden, shall
shine out again,                                             20
The great stars and the little ones shall shine out again- they
endure;
The vast immortal suns, and the long-enduring pensive moons, shall
again shine.
Then, dearest child, mournest thou only for Jupiter?
Considerest thou alone the burial of the stars?
Something there is,
(With my lips soothing thee, adding, I whisper,
I give thee the first suggestion, the problem and indirection,)
Something there is more immortal even than the stars,
(Many the burials, many the days and nights, passing away,)
Something that shall endure longer even than lustrous Jupiter,     30
Longer than sun, or any revolving satellite,
Or the radiant brothers, the Pleiades.
The waves race up the shore,
and then retreat quickly.
It’s hard to tell what they seek
or what they leave behind.
Children paddle at the waters edge
and then scramble to higher ground.
Making believe each in coming wave
is chasing after them.
Seagulls fly overhead,
looking down upon it all,
waiting to swoop down,
should any child let his ice cream fall.
The parents with newspapers sheltering their heads
are so unaware of the dramas played out there,
as children play,
happily on the beach.
(29 May 2007)
At dawn, bare footed, viewing as far as eyes can reach,
the water's edge advances and recedes along the beach.
Before me I see a carpet of half-buried shells of sea-creatures,
tide washed and rippled in sodden sand along the beach.
I move, exploring, sodden sand oozing between my toes,
beyond me the wavelets breaking on the sand along the beach.
Behind me, my wandering trail is blurred and indistinct,
as the water's edge advances and recedes along the beach.
At mid-day, on the soft dry sand behind the water's edge,
undressed worshippers lie in the sun that beats down along the beach.
At night, the moon's reflection at the water's edge
resembles sea serpents playing in the wavelets along the beach.
Please don't tie me up in a relation,
please don't ask me silly questions,
please don't take away me freedom,
please don't sweet talk,
i know without you I'd have to walk.
Please don't buy me flowers,
please don't light up like a tower,
please don't make promises,
please don't make my heart who misses,
fake hugs and fake kisses,
please get out of my life when it's all over,
please don't look for me like a rover,
please don't let me be your lover,
please don't get emotional,
i won't cry coz i am rational,
please don't look like i betrayed you,
who said i ever loved you? ,
please don't try to negotiate,
please stop pretending and don't agitate,
please don't take my heart away,
please let the sand slip away,
please don't behave like a leech,
am only asking for *** on the beach.
Waves crashing on the beach
Sand in my toes
Sun setting
Trees swaying
Throwing rounds rocks in the water
Lying in each others arms
Birds on a log
Crabs crawling along the waters edge
Our footprints through the sand
Scattered like the stars in the sky
It is always the dispossessed—
someone driving a huge rusted Dodge
that’s burning oil, and must cost
twenty-five dollars to fill.
Today before seven I saw, through
the morning fog, his car leave the road,
turning into the field. It must be
his day off, I thought, or he’s out
of work and drinking, or getting stoned.
Or maybe as much as anything
he wanted to see
where the lane through the hay goes.
It goes to the bluff overlooking
the lake, where we’ve cleared
brush, swept the slippery oak
leaves from the path, and tried to destroy
the poison ivy that runs
over the scrubby, sandy knolls.
Sometimes in the evening I’ll hear
gunshots or firecrackers. Later a car
needing a new muffler backs out
to the road, headlights withdrawing
from the lowest branches of the pines.
Next day I find beer cans, crushed;
sometimes a few fish too small
to bother cleaning and left
on the moss to die; or the leaking
latex trace of outdoor love....
Once I found the canvas sling chairs
broken up and burned.
Whoever laid the fire gathered stones
to contain it, like a boy pursuing
a merit badge, who has a dream of work,
and proper reward for work.
There are things in life that everybody wants….
She believes that in order to find the perfect shell
one has to comb a lot of beaches; walking for miles
barefoot in the foamy wash, with the sun by your side
and the past behind you for better or worse. She believes
perfection exists as with sand and water, sun and sky;
certain things like us are meant to grow old together,
once having discovered one another. For it is
in those moments, when the sun and sky close their eyes.
that the moon will ebb the tide and the water will depart
from the sandy shore leaving behind for our discovery
that perfect shell. The one everybody wants…..
2008 © TS
a mother tells a story to her son
'there are three men
one of them went to the beach
and found a beautiful shell in the beach
then he showed it to another man
a beautiful shell he discovered
the last one heard from others
that there's beautiful shell in the beach.'
the mother looks to her son then smiles
'now my child,
from three of them
which one who really knows
the beauty of the shell in the beach? '
from C.M.B.
Oh they won't let us show it at the beach no they won't let us show it at the beach
They think we're gonna grab it if it gets within our reach
And they won't let us show it at the beach
But you can show it in your parlor to most anyone you choose
You can show it at a party with your second shot of booze
You can show it on the corner wearin' overcoat and shoes
But they won't let us show it at the beach
No they won't let us show it at the beach friends
Ah they won't us show it at the beach
Oh they're sure we're gonna grab it if it gets within our reach
So they won't let us show it at the beach
But you can show it in the movies on the cineramic screen
You can show it in the most sophisticated magazine
You can show it while you're bouncing on the high school trampoline
But they won't let us show it at the beach
But if you've got a gun it's legal to display it on your hip
You can show your butcher knives to any interested kid
But if it's made for lovin' then you'd better keep it hid
And they won't let us show it at the beach
Standing On The Beach
We are standing on the beach
Watching the sunset slowly go down
With  this slow blowing breeze
and waves rolling across our feet
With you standing so ever close
You in front and me just behind
With our hands so ever inter twined
With your hair blowing in my face
It smelling so ever saccharine
I loosen one hand reach up
And pull your hair aside
Then I lean my head so ever slightly
Towards your sweet smell neck
Then I begin to lightly kiss it
from top to bottom
I can notice the chill bumps
Across your exposed skin
You moan so ever slightly
As to give your approval
You softly curse my head
As to want me to continue
This so ever lightly kissing of the neck
Birds swimming in the sky
Colours blended with the kite
Beach's gleaming in sandy white
Sun shining a beauty in my eye.
Boats sliding pass sunbather's row
As they gaze up the sky so blue
Images painted on clouds so white
A background to my imaginary flight.
I was there and where were you
Nowhere to perceive but just a shadow,
In the shades of trees and sandy beaches
An image reflected on water's surface,
A mirage of you lost in the shady trees
Lost in the sky's white coloured shades.
In nature and in man's work of wonder
We get lost to find and discover
The truth an image in our mind reveals
As we fly up high and come down our heels.
Out here we lay by the sun's rays,
Counting footsteps on the sandy beaches.
that beach where we sit together
beside the sea
where our hands stretch out
to be held again
like yesterday
is actually a vow, a promise
that never shall again
the sea and the earth part
like two lovers taking opposite ways
the sea licks the thighs of the earth
and the earth surrenders
in utter pleasure
I'd like to return to the world again,
To the dutiful, work-a-day world of men, -
For I'm sick of the beach-comber's lot,
Of the one volcano flaming hot,
With the snow round its edge and the fire in its throat,
And the tropical island that seems a-float
Like a world set in space all alone in the sea . . .
How I wish that a ship, it would stop for me.
I'm sick of the brown girl that loves me, I'm sick
Of the cocoanut groves, - you can't take me too quick
From this place, though it's rich in all nature can give . . .
For I want to return where it's harder to live,
Where men struggle for life, where they work and find sweet
Their rest after toil, and the food that they eat . . .
What? A ship's in the offing? . . . dear God, let me hide, -
They're in need of a sailor, are waiting for the tide
To put off? . . . I will hide where the great cliff hangs sheer -
Give 'em mangoes and goats, and don't tell 'em I'm here!
The summer we spent at the beach
left us far from where we started.
You were content to spend your days,
nights, in quiet somnambulism.
Spending endless days without
waking or caring or seeing the
turbulent waves slowly pulling
the sand from under our feet.
While I spent my days walking the dunes
looking for driftwood and shells,
sweet pea flowers and scrub pines.
The days were cool and the seagulls
called their warning.
They should have been whispering
my name, that and goodbye.
The beach is where I want to go,
To listen to the ocean voices ebb and flow.
Lather on the sun block,
And come near the shore and take a walk.
The athletes playing beach volleyball,
And listen to the seagulls call.
The seagulls chasing after bread,
Beach-goers ducking and covering thier heads.
The ocean breeze going through my hair.
Children throwing sand everywhere.
Playing in the cerulean tide,
Watching the sun behind the horizon, so wide.
People on thier stomachs to get brown and tan,
Getting thier bronzer all over thier hands.
Getting a whiff of the salty spray,
The beach is the place to get away.
Salt spray on your lips
crashing waves crescendo in your ears
breaking upon cragged rocks
of ancient fears
until a gentle mist
from the distance falls
subduing sound and wind
and wafting on the air
the sound of tranquil music
as shadows dance
and the sun drifts out of sight
the sand warm beneath your feet
wind gentle in your hair
scented spray takes your senses
into raptures no one but you could know
and as you open your eyes
I fill them with my soft deep blueness
arms entwine your body
with such embrace as moonlight
has for snow capped mountains
and as your head swirls
you are lost in the sweetest wine
of such deep kisses
made of some magic time
when lips could only utter
such loving tenderness
that makes hearts melt
into one another.
I'll walk beside you hand in hand
Where the golden surf cries out for land.
With every dream within our reach
Where the sea comes in to kiss the beach.
I once ate a peach on the beach.
Louder than gulls the little children scream
Whom fathers haul into the jovial foam;
But others fearlessly rush in, breast high,
Laughing the salty water from their mouthes-
Heroes of the nursery.
The horny boatman, who has seen whales
And flying fishes, who has sailed as far
As Demerara and the Ivory Coast,
Will warn them, when they crowd to hear his tales,
That every ocean smells of tar.
Squat, unshaven, full of gas,
Joseph Samuels, former clerk
in four large cities, out of work,
waits in the darkened underpass.
In sanctuary, out of reach,
he stares at the fading light outside:
the rain beginning: hears the tide
that drums along the empty beach.
When drops first fell at six o'clock,
the bathers left. The last car's gone.
Sun's final rays reflect upon
the streaking rain, the rambling dock.
He takes an object from his coat
and holds it tightly in his hand
(eyes on the stretch of endless sand) .
And then, in darkness, cuts his throat.
FOR the fairest maid in Hampton
They needed not to search,
Who saw young Anna favor
Come walking into church,--
Or bringing from the meadows,
At set of harvest-day,
The frolic of the blackbirds,
The sweetness of the hay.
Now the weariest of all mothers,
The saddest two years' bride,
She scowls in the face of her husband,
And spurns her child aside.
"Rake out the red coals, goodman,--
For there the child shall lie,
Till the black witch comes to fetch her
And both up chimney fly.
"It's never my own little daughter,
It's never my own," she said;
"The witches have stolen my Anna,
And left me an imp instead.
"Oh, fair and sweet was my baby,
Blue eyes, and hair of gold;
But this is ugly and wrinkled,
Cross, and cunning, and old.
"I hate the touch of her fingers,
I hate the feel of her skin;
It's not the milk from my bosom,
But my blood, that she sucks in.
"My face grows sharp with the torment;
Look! my arms are skin and bone!
Rake open the red coals, goodman,
And the witch shall have her own.
"She'll come when she hears it crying,
In the shape of an owl or bat,
And she'll bring us our darling Anna
In place of her screeching brat."
Then the goodman, Ezra Dalton,
Laid his hand upon her head:
Thy sorrow is great, O woman!
I sorrow with thee," he said.
"The paths to trouble are many
And never but one sure way
Leads out to the light beyond it:
My poor wife, let us pray."
Then he said to the great All-Father,
"Thy daughter is weak and blind;
Let her sight come back, and clothe her
Once more in her right mind.
"Lead her out of this evil shadow,
Out of these fancies wild;
Let the holy love of the mother
Turn again to her child.
"Make her lips like the lips of Mary
Kissing her blessed Son;
Let her hands, like the hands of Jesus,
Rest on her little one.
"Comfort the soul of thy handmaid,
Open her prison-door,
And thine shall be all the glory
And praise forevermore."
Then into the face of its mother
The baby looked up and smiled;
And the cloud of her soul was lifted,
And she knew her little child.
A beam of the slant west sunshine
Made the wan face almost fair,
Lit the blue eyes' patient wonder
And the rings of pale gold hair.
She kissed it on lip and forehead,
She kissed it on cheek and chink
And she bared her snow-white bosom
To the lips so pale and thin.
Oh, fair on her bridal morning
Was the maid who blushed and smiled,
But fairer to Ezra Dalton
Looked the mother of his child.
With more than a lover's fondness
He stooped to her worn young face,
And the nursing child and the mother
He folded in one embrace.
"Blessed be God!" he murmured.
"Blessed be God!" she said;
"For I see, who once was blinded,--
I live, who once was dead.
"Now mount and ride, my goodman,
As thou lovest thy own soul!
Woe's me, if my wicked fancies
Be the death of Goody Cole!"
His horse he saddled and bridled,
And into the night rode he,
Now through the great black woodland,
Now by the white-beached sea.
He rode through the silent clearings,
He came to the ferry wide,
And thrice he called to the boatman
Asleep on the other side.
He set his horse to the river,
He swam to Newbury town,
And he called up Justice Sewall
In his nightcap and his gown.
And the grave and worshipful justice
(Upon whose soul be peace!)
Set his name to the jailer's warrant
For Goodwife Cole's release.
Then through the night the hoof-beats
Went sounding like a flail;
And Goody Cole at cockcrow
Came forth from Ipswich jail.
.
Upon a lonely desart Beach
Where the white foam was scatter'd,
A little shed uprear'd its head
Though lofty Barks were shatter'd.
The Sea-weeds gath'ring near the door,
A sombre path display'd;
And, all around, the deaf'ning roar,
Re-echo'd on the chalky shore,
By the green billows made.
Above, a jutting cliff was seen
Where Sea Birds hover'd, craving;
And all around, the craggs were bound
With weeds- for ever waving.
And here and there, a cavern wide
Its shad'wy jaws display'd;
And near the sands, at ebb of tide,
A shiver'd mast was seen to ride
Where the green billows stray'd.
And often, while the moaning wind
Stole o'er the Summer Ocean;
The moonlight scene, was all serene,
The waters scarce in motion:
Then, while the smoothly slanting sand
The tall cliff wrapp'd in shade,
The Fisherman beheld a band
Of Spectres, gliding hand in hand-
Where the green billows play'd.
And pale their faces were, as snow,
And sullenly they wander'd:
And to the skies with hollow eyes
They look'd as though they ponder'd.
And sometimes, from their hammock shroud,
They dismal howlings made,
And while the blast blew strong and loud
The clear moon mark'd the ghastly croud,
Where the green billows play'd!
And then, above the haunted hut
The Curlews screaming hover'd;
And the low door with furious roar
The frothy breakers cover'd.
For, in the Fisherman's lone shed
A MURDER'D MAN was laid,
With ten wide gashes in his head
And deep was made his sandy bed
Where the green billows play'd.
A Shipwreck'd Mariner was he,
Doom'd from his home to sever;
Who swore to be thro' wind and sea
Firm and undaunted ever!
And when the wave resistless roll'd,
About his arm he made
A packet rich of Spanish gold,
And, like a British sailor, bold,
Plung'd, where the billows play'd!
The Spectre band, his messmates brave
Sunk in the yawning ocean,
While to the mast he lash'd him fast
And brav'd the storm's commotion.
The winter moon, upon the sand
A silv'ry carpet made,
And mark'd the Sailor reach the land,
And mark'd his murd'rer wash his hand
Where the green billows play'd.
And since that hour the Fisherman
Has toil'd and toil'd in vain!
For all the night, the moony light
Gleams on the specter'd main!
And when the skies are veil'd in gloom,
The Murd'rer's liquid way
Bounds o'er the deeply yawning tomb,
And flashing fires the sands illume,
Where the green billows play!
Full thirty years his task has been,
Day after day more weary;
For Heav'n design'd, his guilty mind
Should dwell on prospects dreary.
Bound by a strong and mystic chain,
He has not pow'r to stray;
But, destin'd mis'ry to sustain,
He wastes, in Solitude and Pain-
A loathsome life away.
Oh, how I missed you, Lonely Beach,
Where I have left my soul,
The rugged rocks surround me,
I sit there, lost, alone.
Before me is the ocean,
The stormy Irish Sea,
It comes to me, I’m part of you,
And know, you’re part of me.
You send a wave to kiss my feet,
And then you back away,
You tantalise, you hypnotise,
You hold me, make me sway.
I grip the rock to steady me,
Lest I fall in too deep,
I’m lost in love for you now,
The way back now, so steep.
Another wave comes crashing,
Bestows a gentle kiss,
And now I get to taste you,
You linger on my lips.
I’m filled now with a passion,
For you, I can’t ignore,
I’m satisfied, contented,
And leave you on the shore.
lift your skirt
thump your feet to the waves
a flamenco at beach
flamenco beach
the waves
a flamenco outing
lulling me to sleep
a rolling flamenco at sea
flamenco beach
April Cannon Beach
the sea lions too taken up
by the sights
April Cannon Beach
we join the sea lions
in their songs of praise
Oregan Coast March
a fountain of
whales
Every spring, gray whales make their way north from the breeding grounds of Baja California to the summer playground of the Bering Sea. Traveling about five miles per hour, it takes the whale some three weeks to make the journey, passing the scenic Oregon coast in late March and April. Stop in Cannon Beach to see Haystack Rock, the artsy little hamlet of Yachats, backed by verdant Cape Perpetua, and Sea Lion Caves, where you take an elevator down 200 feet to view hundreds of sea lions squawking on the rocks.
We walked on the beach
my shadow and I.
Rocks protruded
out of the sand
and a big ship passed by.
The tide was high
and the angry sea crashed
and slapped spray
upon the rocks.
a Strong wind scratched
me with buckets full of sand
and I wondered what had happened
to a perfect day at the beach,
but later the wind died down.
a Single gull surfed the air
and suddenly it wasn’t there
and only the green sea,
the white-hot sun,
surf crashing on the beach
and I remained.
When I walk om Margate’s beach
something is caught,
in the sound of the breaking waves
and it echoes there forever more.
The beach is wiped clear
by the rushing waters
of the high tide,
but somehow footprints
walk the beach
as if they were just set there.
In the pleasant summer
golden bodies spreads
right around me
and the waves,
are filled with children
splashing and laughing
at the joy of living.
We would climb the highest dune,
from there to gaze and come down:
the ocean was performing;
we contributed our climb.
Waves leapfrogged and came
straight out of the storm.
What should our gaze mean?
Kit waited for me to decide.
Standing on such a hill,
what would you tell your child?
That was an absolute vista.
Those waves raced far, and cold.
'How far could you swim, Daddy,
in such a storm?'
'As far as was needed,' I said,
and as I talked, I swam.
I dreamed about an Easterbunny
on Zuma Beach, where it was sunny.
She would have graced big city malls
and told me she liked Matzo Balls.
By which she meant those oval eggs
that hang off males, between the legs.
Though dark of skin her real home
was not the Southern town of Rome.
Hugh Hefner was her dear old dad
he'd started this attractive fad.
Down in Australia they have bunnies
surrounding little shacks called dunnies.
They are the ones whose nether hole
has been designed the novel role
of laying eggs, some green some yellow
for white man and the coloured fellow.
Back to the bunny at my feet,
she said that she was glad to meet
a hunk like me, so well endowed
and might she, kindly, be allowed
to cuddle up close to my skin
where we could share in wicked sin.
I saw the sadness in her eyes
and, being better than those guys
who would have jumped at this small chance
I did remain in  mental trance
until those bunnyhands caressed
the little curlies on my chest.
Such loneliness and such despair
it was so cruel and unfair,
of God to make her in creation
and then prevent all fornication,
thus someone had to give her aid
that's how on Zuma I got laid.
young women, old women
in their heart
despite the years
the yearning to be beautiful
young women, old women
they look at each other
one with envy
the other with fear and contempt (of the wrinkles, old age)
young women, old women
they look into each other
one for amother
the other for a daughter
Standing on the edge of nothingness
the wind of regret blowing through me
as my deamons dance the ring of deception
that I'm becoming more tempted to join
'Come, ' I hear them say as they weave
'You belong to us, don't you see?
The dreams that make you scream,
the Dark Mistress that forever stands beside you,
everything that makes you who you are
is nothing but a beautiful lie to keep you alive.'
How do you fight a shadow when you are weak;
when misery is engraved into your soul?
How do you resist the urge to fade away
when all your heart ever feels is pain?
Love has long since abanonded me
Happiness stopped coming to my door years ago
and I have fallen from Grace since the day my heart broke
So with nothing to lose
and nothing to gain
I take my deamons' hand and dance...
And the lie takes my life.
All my days before yesterday
Were for me just a joke…
My heart is bouncing inside me now
Like nice music of the type of rock…
I wish it can express itself
And frankly can wake up out of its shock…
I am afraid you become too proud of yourself
And hesitate telling me:
“I do like you also Doc”! ! !
Wael Karameh Karameh
July 11,2009.
I walked to the cliff top to watch the sunset
thinking of you and the time that we met
I watched as the sun drifted down from the sky
a reminding reflection of light in your eyes
A myriad birds flocked from over the hill
returning to roost as the world stood still
their fawning and waving high up in the air
brought memories to me how you unfurl your hair
The sea seemed to amble as if in a trance
when reaching the rocks leaping into a dance
its light sparking rainbows in fine misty haze
a lasting encounter of how we embrace
The sun kissed the horizon like I kiss your lips
it was saying goodnight with its light fingertips
caressing the ocean and stretching my way
a beautiful end to a beautiful day.
When the sun rise in the morning
then you shine like a brighten lady
When the moon set in the evening
then you look like a beautiful lady
When I go to bed in the night
then you twinkle like stars
When the cool breeze touches me
then I take care of your love
When you are under my arms
then I tell you how much I love you
When I say my night prayers
then I thank God for giving you to me
When I close my eyes to sleep
then you rest your head on my chest
and listen to my heart beat says you are mine.
you appear there
in front of me
very nearly transparent
your presence looking like a reflection
in a mist shrouded mirror
so hazy a strong puff
might blow you away like fog
yet this Love is not the memory
of a beautiful dream...
when I reach out
you are there
The stars glisten……,
Around the moon…..,
Like the eyes of angels…,
That hail the soon….,
Coming birth….,
Of the Savior….,
Who will rid the world….,
Of all its sin…..,
Yes, Jesus Christ will be born….,
On A Beautiful Night Of Christmas Silence….,
Hail the Lord, Jesus Christ….,
On A Beautiful Night Of Christmas Silence….! ! !
.......................................Tr ade Martin,  2011.
When you smile:
Your eyes shine so bright,
you get this grin on your face that could melt ice
your cheeks get rosy
you are a beautiful sight
When you laugh:
Your eyes get a sparkle in them
You get this grin on your face that
will make others laugh with you
Your entire body starts to shake
You are a beautiful sight
When you lay sleeping:
Your brows draw together
Your lips pucker up
You will tense up, then relax
You are so peaceful
You are a beautiful sight
When you are just you:
You have the most beautiful eyes
Your face is so express full
You make the person you are with relax
You are there for me always
You are a Beautitiful Person
Corinna, Pride of Drury-Lane,
For whom no Shepherd sighs in vain;
Never did Covent Garden boast
So bright a batter'd, strolling Toast;
No drunken Rake to pick her up,
No Cellar where on Tick to sup;
Returning at the Midnight Hour;
Four Stories climbing to her Bow'r;
Then, seated on a three-legg'd Chair,
Takes off her artificial Hair:
Now, picking out a Crystal Eye,
She wipes it clean, and lays it by.
Her Eye-Brows from a Mouse's Hide,
Stuck on with Art on either Side,
Pulls off with Care, and first displays 'em,
Then in a Play-Book smoothly lays 'em.
Now dextrously her Plumpers draws,
That serve to fill her hollow Jaws.
Untwists a Wire; and from her Gums
A Set of Teeth completely comes.
Pulls out the Rags contriv'd to prop
Her flabby Dugs and down they drop.
Proceeding on, the lovely Goddess
Unlaces next her Steel-Rib'd Bodice;
Which by the Operator's Skill,
Press down the Lumps, the Hollows fill,
Up hoes her Hand, and off she slips
The Bolsters that supply her Hips.
With gentlest Touch, she next explores
Her Shankers, Issues, running Sores,
Effects of many a sad Disaster;
And then to each applies a Plaster.
But must, before she goes to Bed,
Rub off the Daubs of White and Red;
And smooth the Furrows in her Front,
With greasy Paper stuck upon't.
She takes a Bolus e'er she sleeps;
And then between two Blankets creeps.
With pains of love tormented lies;
Or if she chance to close her Eyes,
Of Bridewell and the Compter dreams,
And feels the Lash, and faintly screams;
Or, by a faithless Bully drawn,
At some Hedge-Tavern lies in Pawn;
Or to Jamaica seems transported,
Alone, and by no Planter courted;
Or, near Fleet-Ditch's oozy Brinks,
Surrounded with a Hundred Stinks,
Belated, seems on watch to lie,
And snap some Cull passing by;
Or, struck with Fear, her Fancy runs
On Watchmen, Constables and Duns,
From whom she meets with frequent Rubs;
But, never from Religious Clubs;
Whose Favour she is sure to find,
Because she pays them all in Kind.
CORINNA wakes. A dreadful Sight!
Behold the Ruins of the Night!
A wicked Rat her Plaster stole,
Half eat, and dragged it to his Hole.
The Crystal Eye, alas, was miss'd;
And Puss had on her Plumpers piss'd.
A Pigeon pick'd her Issue-Peas;
And Shock her Tresses fill'd with Fleas.
The Nymph, tho' in this mangled Plight,
Must ev'ry Morn her Limbs unite.
But how shall I describe her Arts
To recollect the scatter'd Parts?
Or show the Anguish, Toil, and Pain,
Of gath'ring up herself again?
The bashful Muse will never bear
In such a Scene to interfere.
Corinna in the Morning dizen'd,
Who sees, will spew; who smells, be poison'd.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
Beautiful is the 'thank you'
Wrapped with gratitude,
Offered to peace prone people
Who offer what is real-themselves
To nurse  with love and humility
napalm asphyxiated victims
in our stained world
veiling ambition with face of
humanity.Beautiful is the moment
when sunlit world fades away
And with it mind made mirror
While look inward drawn, sight insight led,
and heart shuts out desire to let in
consciousness.
O beautiful for spacious skies,
For amber waves of grain,
For purple mountain majesties
Above the fruited plain!
America! America!
God shed His grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea!
O beautiful for pilgrim feet,
Whose stern, impassioned stress
A thoroughfare for freedom beat
Across the wilderness!
America! America!
God mend thine every flaw,
Confirm thy soul in self-control,
Thy liberty in law!
O beautiful for heroes proved
In liberating strife,
Who more than self their country loved,
And mercy more than life!
America! America!
May God thy gold refine,
Till all success be nobleness,
And every gain divine!
O beautiful for patriot dream
That sees beyond the years
Thine alabaster cities gleam
Undimmed by human tears!
America! America!
God shed His grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea!
The mountains and glens of Aberfoyle are beautiful to sight,
Likewise the rivers and lakes are sparkling and bright;
And its woods were frequented by the Lady of the Lake,
And on its Lakes many a sail in her boat she did take.
The scenery there will fill the tourist with joy,
Because 'tis there once lived the bold Rob Roy,
Who spent many happy days with his Helen there,
By chasing the deer in the woods so fair.
The little vale of Aberfoyle and its beautiful river
Is a sight, once seen, forget it you'll never;
And romantic ranges of rock on either side
Form a magnificent background far and wide.
And the numerous lochs there abound with trout
Which can be had for the taking out,
Especially from the Lochs Chon and Ard,
There the angler can make a catch which will his toil reward.
And between the two lochs the Glasgow Water Works are near,
Which convey water of Loch Katrine in copious streams clear
To the inhabitants of the Great Metropolis of the West,
And for such pure water they should think themselves blest.
The oak and birch woods there are beautiful to view,
Also the Ochil hills which are blue in hue,
Likewise the Lake of Menteith can be seen far eastward,
Also Stirling Castle, which long ago the English beseiged very hard.
Then away to Aberfoyle, Rob Roy's country,
And gaze on the magnificent scenery.
A region of rivers and mountains towering majestically
Which is lovely and fascinating to see.
But no words can describe the beautiful scenery.
Aberfoyle must be visited in order to see,
So that the mind may apprehend its beauties around,
Which will charm the hearts of the visitors I'll be bound.
As for the clachan of aberfoyle, little remains but a hotel,
Which for accomodation which will suit the traveller very well.
And the bedding thereis clean and good,
And good cooks there to cook the food.
Then away to the mountains and lakes of bonnie Aberfoyle,
Ye hard-working sons and daughters of daily toil;
And traverse its heathery mountains and viewits lakes so clear,
When the face of Nature's green in the spring of the year.
I suppose we start with Lipstick
Red, Cherrie, spread on nice and Thick
Then a hair piece, or a Wig
The best that they can Rig
Now we come to lots of Jewelry
Fake diamonds, rubies are Tom-Foolery
Or things hanging from there Ears
That look like Chandeliers
Also nail polish, perfume, fancy Soap
With all this stuff I don't know how they Cope
I really know that women are beautiful on any given Day
But no make-up, no fake-up, would be the best Way
Beautiful
This world,
Beautiful
This life.
Beautiful
And
Beautiful
Everyth ing
Including
The sunrise
And also
The sunset.
Beautiful
And
Beautiful,
The sky
And
The sea,
The air
And
The water.
Beautiful
This life
And
Beautiful
This earth,
Where we are.
Beautiful Balmermo on the bonnie banks of Tay,
It's a very bonnie spot in the months of June or May;
The scenery there is charming and fascinating to see,
Especially the surroundings of the old Abbey,
Which is situated in the midst of trees on a rugged hill,
Which visitors can view at their own free will;
And the trees and shrubberies are lovely to view,
Especially the trees on each side of the avenue
Which leads up to the Abbey amongst the trees;
And in the summer time it's frequented with bees,
And also crows with their unmusical cry,
Which is a great annoyance to the villagers that live near by.
And there in the summer season the mavis sings,
And with her charming notes the woodland rings;
And the sweet-scented zephyrs is borne upon the gale,
Which is most refreshing and invigorating to inhale.
Then there's the stately Castle of Balmerino
Situated in the midst of trees, a magnificent show,
And bordering on the banks o' the silvery Tay,
Where visitors can spend a happy holiday.
As they view the castle and scenery around
It will help to cheer their spirits I'll be bound;
And if they wish to view Wormit Bay
They can walk along the braes o' the silvery Tay.
Ye lovers of the picturesque, away and see
Beautiful Balmoral, near by the River Dee;
There ye will see the deer browsing on the heathery hills,
While adown their sides run clear sparkling rills.
Which the traveller can drink of when he feels dry,
And admire the dark River Dee near by,
Rolling smoothly and silently on its way,
Which is most lovely to see on a summer day.
There the trout do sport and play
During the live-long summer day;
Also plenty of salmon are there to be seen,
Glittering like silver in the sun's sheen.
And the mountains are rugged and wild to be seen,
But the woodlands are beautiful when Nature's face is green;
There numerous rabbits do gambol all day
Amongst the green scrubbery all lively and gay.
There's one charming spot most magnificent to be seen,
'Tis Balmoral Castle, the Highland Home of our Queen;
The surrounding scenery is enchanting to see,
While near by rolls past the lovely River Dee.
Therefore, ye lovers of the picturesque, away and see
Beautiful Balmoral Castle and its grand scenery,
And the sight will fill your hearts with glee,
As ye walk along the bonnie banks o' the River Dee.
Really beautiful,
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful,
Nothing but beautiful.
Your eyes, Your hand-less hand,
Your presence, Your leg-less leg,
And Your doing all action
Without any presentation.
Really beautiful, and one who
Is not able to recognized You
Is really a fool and see
That fool himself is also beautiful.
A shimmering of your hair
As I glance in awe
A quiver of your lips
As I swallow in anticipation
A flashing of your eyes
As I stand near not far
A movement of your hips
As I watch you walk
A gesture of your hand
As I lower my lips
A laughter in the air
As I make another quip
A sigh from deep within
As I tell you my intent
A gasp from tender breast
As I look so deep within
A tremble in your legs
As I make you remember
And you have absolutely no doubt
Beauty is in the making
Through each breath
Each of us are together taking.
How Beautiful of birds
of the air,
seeing their awesome
wonderful flair.
So quiet it would be
without their sound
watching them as they
fly all around.
Sweet harmony do they make.
A lonesome world this would be,
for no birds making flight
these wonderful creatures I see.
Beautiful birds of nature
wonderful sounds to my ear
touching me with wonder,
so gentle with serenity
and so dear.
wrote 4-28-07
I never knew the beauty was there.
I was a little girl with curvaceous hips, and thighs.
I was perfect in size.
I was young, tender, and firm.
I remember a little pudgy girl.
Fat hips and thighs.
Only a love saw the good in what I despised.
Then a look back, showed all the beauty in me.
I‘ve grown into a
Beautiful Black Woman
I have full breast, hips and thighs.
I’m a voluptuous full figured woman.
I’m beautiful, strong, intelligent, and independent.
I’ve brought beauty to the world.
I ‘m proud and not ashamed
I shall not apologize for who I’ve become.
I’m a sexy brown thick sista (sister) .
Finer than the rarest bottle of wine
I’m good to you, and for you
I know now the beauty is in me
I’m a Beautiful Black Woman
Blue eyes so full of life
A wonder all of their own
So beautiful and precious
Oh to see those eyes smile
Such a beautiful sight
How I love to look into those eyes
When I look into them
A kind of peace comes over me
Beautiful blue eyes
Always haunting me
...teasing me
Reminding me of what I want...can't have
Why do they haunt me so
When will I be free of them
Constantly held captive by those blue eyes
Beautiful blue eyes
Always there
A reminder of what I want...can't have
Such beautiful blue eyes
Beautiful blue eyes...
Beautiful city
Beautiful city, the centre and crater of European confusion,
O you with your passionate shriek for the rights of an equal
humanity,
How often your Re-volution has proven but E-volution
Roll’d again back on itself in the tides of a civic insanity!
Ye lovers of the picturesque, away, away!
To beautiful Comrie and have a holiday;
Aud bask in the sunahine and inhale the fragrant air
Emanating from the woodlands and shrubberies there.
The charming village of Comrie is most lovely to be seen,
Especially in the summer season when the trees are green;
And near by is Loch Earn and its waters sparkling clear,
And as the tourist gazes thereon his spirits it will cheer.
Then St. Fillans is a beautiful spot, I must confess,
It is really a picture of rural loveliness;
Because out of the quiet lake the river ripples merrily,
And all round are hills beautiful in shape and nothing uncomely.
The rocky knoll to the south is a most seductive place,
And in the hotel there visitors will find every solace;
And the flower-decked cottages are charming to see,
Also handsome villas suitable for visitors of high and low degree.
Then there's St. Fillan's Hill, a prehistoric fort,
And visitors while there to it should resort;
And to the tourist the best approach is from the west,
Because in climbing the hill his strength it will test.
And descending the hill as best one may,
The scene makes the tourist's heart feel gay;
And by the west side is reached a wooded deli,
And about two hundred yards from that there's St. Fillan's Well.
Oh, charming Comrie! I must conclude my lay,
And to write in praise of thee I virtually do say
That your lovely mountains and silver birches will drive dull care away:
Therefore lovers of the picturesque, away, away!
To beautiful Comrie end have a holidoy,
And I'm sure you will return with spirits, light and gay,
After viewing the Sylvan beauties and hoary beeches there,
Also pines, ferns, and beautiful oaks, I do declare.
Ye lovers of the picturesque, if ye wish to drown your grief,
Take my advice, and visit the ancient town of Crieff;
The climate is bracing, and the walks lovely to see.
Besides, ye can ramble over the district, and view the beautiful scenery.
The town is admirably situated from the cold winter winds,
And the visitors, during their stay there, great comfort finds,
Because there is boating and fishing, and admission free,
Therefore they can enjoy themselves right merrily.
There is also golf courses, tennis greens, and good roads,
Which will make the travelling easier to tourists with great loads,
And which will make the bicyclists' hearts feel gay,
Because they have everything there to make an enjoyable holiday.
The principal river there is the Earn, rolling on its way,
And which flows from Loch Earn, and joins the silvery Tay
Above Newburgh, after a course of more than thirty miles;
And as the tourist views the scene with joy he smiles.
The princely domain of Drummond Castle is most beautiful to be seen,
Especially when the woody landscape is blown full green,
And from the entrance gate to the castle an avenue extends all the way,
And to view the branches of the frees interlacing makes the heart feel gay.
Drummond Castle's flowery gardens are really very grand;
They cannot be surpassed in Great Britain,
And in the summer-time the bee and the butterfly are there on the wing,
And with the carolling of birds the gardens doth ring.
And from Knock Hill on the north and west,
The view from its summit is considered the best;
Because the Grampians and the Ochils can be seen,
While the beautiful rich fertile valley lies between.
And there are many seats where the weary traveller can rest,
And there is also a fountain of water, the very best,
While visitors can drink of while resting there,
And gaze on the magnificent scenery and inhale the pure air.
Then there's Lady Mary's Walk near the Bridge of Turret,
Which I hope visitors will go and see and not forget,
Because near by grows a magnificent oak most lovely to see,
Which is known by the name of Eppie Callum's Tree.
And at each end of this walk the visitors can ascend Laggan Hill,
And as they view the woods and fields with joy their hearts
And they will find seats plenteous on this elevated bower,
On which they may rest and wile away the hour.
The Hydropathic is situated on an eminence most grand,
And is one of the largest buildings in fair Scotland;
And capable of accommodating five hundred visitors, who often call there,
To recuperate their health and breathe the fragrant air.
Then there's Abercairny, which is most beautiful to view,
And Her Majesty the Queen visited the grounds in 1842;
And the park and the trees has the aspect of a southern scene,
And the lovely appearance of it gladdened the heart of our Queen.
Then there's the village of Foulis, which tourists ought to see,
Because the scenery there is charming and pretty;
And there's a sycamore tree there that was planted 300 years ago,
And I'm sure the sight thereof will please both high and low.
Therefore, in conclusion, to all lovers of the beautiful I will say,
If ye really wish to spend an enjoyable holiday,
I would recommend Crieff for lovely scenery and pure air;
Besides, the climate gives health to many visitors during their stay there.
Roll on, roll on, and stare!
Beautiful daughters of heaven
Three-sixty-five, Twenty-four-seven
Roll on, roll on, and beware!
Beautiful daughters of hell
With eyes of an angel
But beautiful daughters I praise thee
Praise be onto mothers that raise thee
For when a child is born a sweet girl
Heaven itself is raised from hell
Beautiful daughters are the seeds of peace
Their instinctive love we need not decrease
Bearing along the humane fruit of compassion
The golden qualities of a cherished companion
Beautiful daughters I praise thee
Praise be onto thy mothers that raise thee
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
frost bitten rain drop
watched by crystal eyes
spinning in whirl-winds
dancing across still skies
loved by many
across the feilds it flies
but even with the beauty
a broken heart dies
1     Beautiful dreamer, wake unto me,
2     Starlight and dewdrops are waiting for thee;
3     Sounds of the rude world heard in the day,
4     Lull'd by the moonlight have all pass'd a way!
5     Beautiful dreamer, queen of my song,
6     List while I woo thee with soft melody;
7     Gone are the cares of life's busy throng, --
8     Beautiful dreamer, awake unto me!
9     Beautiful dreamer awake unto me!
10   Beautiful dreamer, out on the sea
11   Mermaids are chaunting the wild lorelie;
12   Over the streamlet vapors are borne,
13   Waiting to fade at the bright coming morn.
14   Beautiful dreamer, beam on my heart,
15   E'en as the morn on the streamlet and sea;
16   Then will all clouds of sorrow depart, --
17   Beautiful dreamer, awake unto me!
18   Beautiful dreamer, awake unto me!
Beautiful city of Edinburgh, most wonderful to be seen,
With your ancient palace of Holyrood and Queen's Park Green,
And your big, magnificent, elegant New College,
Where people from all nations can be taught knowledge.
The New College of Edinburgh is certainly very grand
Which I consider to be an honour to fair Scotland,
Because it's the biggest in the world, without any doubt,
And is most beautiful in the inside as well as out.
And the Castle is wonderful to look upon,
Which has withstood many angry tempests in years bygone;
And the rock it's built upon is rugged and lovely to be seen
When the shrubberies surrounding it are blown full green.
Morningside is lovely and charming to be seen;
The gardens there are rich with flowers and shrubberies green
And sweet scented perfumes fill the air,
Emanating from the sweet flowers and beautiful plants there.
And as for Braidhill, it's a very romantic spot,
But a fine place to visit when the weather is hot;
There the air is nice and cool, which will help to drive away sorrow
When ye view from its summit the beautiful city of Edinburgh.
And as for the statues, they are very grand-
They cannot be surpassed in any foreign land;
And the scenery is attractive and fascinating to the eye,
And arrests the attention of tourists as they pass by.
Lord Melville's Monument is most elegant to be seen,
Which is situated in St. Andrew's Square, amongst shrubberies green,
Which seems most gorgeous to the eye,
Because it is towering so very high.
The Prince Albert Consort Statue looks very grand,
Especially the granite blocks whereon it doth stand,
Which is admired by all tourists as they pass by,
Because the big granite blocks seem magnificent to the eye.
Princes Street West End Garden Is fascinating to be seen,
With its beautiful big trees and shrubberies green,
And its magnificent water fountain in the valley below
Helps to drive away from the tourist all care and woe.
The Castle Hotel is elegant and grand,
And students visit it from every foreign land,
And the students of Edinburgh often call there
To rest and have luncheon, at a very cheap fare.
Queen Street Garden seems charming to the eye,
And a great boon it is to the tenantry near by,
As they walk along the grand gravel walks near there,
Amongst the big trees and shrubberies, and inhale pure air.
Then, all ye tourists, be advised by me,
Beautiful Edinburgh ye ought to go and see.
It's the only city I know of where ye can wile away the time
By viewing its lovely scenery and statues fine.
Magnificent city of Edinburgh, I must conclude my muse,
But to write in praise of thee I cannot refuse.
I will tell the world boldly without dismay
You have the biggest college in the world at the present day.
Of all the cities in the world, Edinburgh for me;
For no matter where I look, some lovely spot I see;
And for picturesque scenery unrivalled you do stand.
Therefore I pronounce you to be the Pride of Fair Scotland.
We loved eachother
Our hearts were warm
You loved me
I loved you back
But the sands of time
Made our love lack
I needed you
And hated you also
We screamed, we yelled
Our mutual hatred swelled
The day finally came
When you handed back your token
The emotion inside had finally woken
My spirit was broken
I became a shell
Wishing you would burn in hell
I wanted so bad to scream and yell
My mind has been set up after all
I swallow my demon, and then I fall
Inner voice
straining to be heard
Evincing what I already
know to be true
Yet your web of lies
Is so beautifully spun
before me that
I so want to find
even the tiniest glimmer
of truth in those lies
Convincing myself that
those beautiful lies
originated from some
beautiful truth
As I walked down the steps,
my eyes caught your innocence.
The moisture on your lips
inviting to be kissed.
Your firm suple breast
could not make me rest;
And as you walked towards me
all I wanted was us to be alone.
As I see you bid farewell,
I wish to see you again.
But in my mind you shall remain forever
as my beautiful little stranger
BEAUTIFUL lofty things:  O'Leary's noble head;
My father upon the Abbey stage, before him a raging crowd:
'This Land of Saints,' and then as the applause died out,
'Of plaster Saints'; his beautiful mischievous head thrown back.
Standish O'Grady supporting himself between the tables
Speaking to a drunken audience high nonsensical words;
Augusta Gregory seated at her great ormolu table,
Her eightieth winter approaching:  'Yesterday he threatened my life.
I told him that nightly from six to seven I sat at this table,
The blinds drawn up'; Maud Gonne at Howth station waiting a train,
Pallas Athene in that straight back and arrogant head:
All the Olympians; a thing never known again.
They look at my dark complexion and they laugh.
But that don’t bother me.
For I’m beautiful.
Beautiful me.
I love my wide nose,
and thick lips.
I’m beautiful.
Beautiful me.
Now, my hips are wide,
and I got a lot of junk in my trunk.
But I’m beautiful.
Beautiful me.
My hair may be coarse,
And my breast are not enhance.
But I’m still beautiful.
Beautiful me.
So they may point, and laugh if they want too.
They may even call me names because of my
dark skin.  I won’t cry because beauty is in
the eye of the beholder.  And in my eyes
I’m beautiful.
Beautiful me.
Beautiful Monikie! with your trees and shrubberies green
And your beautiful walks, most charming to be seen:
'Tis a beautiful place for pleasure-seekers to resort,
Because there they can have innocent sport,
taking a leisure walk all round about,
And see the ang1ers fishing in the pand for trout.
Besides, there's lovely white swans swimming on the pond,
And Panmure Monument can be seen a little distance beyond;
And the scenery all round is enchanting I declare,
While sweet-scented fragrance fills the air.
Then away, pleasure-seekers of bonnie Dundee,
And have a day's outing around Monikie,
And inhale the pure air, on a fine summer day,
Which will help to drive dull care away;
As ye gaze on the beautiful scenery there,
Your spirits will feel o'erjoyed and free frozen care.
Then near to the pond there's a beautiful green sward,
Where excursionists can dance until fatigue does them retard;
And if they feel thirsty, the Monikie water's near by,
Where they can quench their thirst if very dry.
Then, after that, they can have a walk at their ease,
Amongst the green shrubbery and tall pine trees;
And in the centre of the pand they can see
Three beautiful little islets dressed in green livery.
Monikie is as bonnie a place as ye could wish to see,
And about eleven or twelve miles from bonnie Dundee;
It's the only place I know of to enjoy a holiday,
Because there's a hall of shelter there to keep the rain away.
Then there's a large park, a very suitable place,
For the old and the young, if they wish to try a race;
It's there they can enjoy themselves during the live-long summmer day,
Near to the little purling burn, meandering on its way,
And emptying itself into the pond of Monikie,
Which supplies the people with water belonging to Dundee.
All ye tourists who wish to be away
From the crowded city for a brief holiday;
The town of Nairn is worth a visit, I do confess,
And it's only about fifteen miles from Inverness.
And in the summer season it's a very popular bathing-place,
And the visitors from London and Edinburgh finds solace,
As they walk along the yellow sand beach inhaling fresh air;
Besides, there's every accommodation for ladies and gentlemen there.
Then there's a large number of bathing coaches there,
And the climate is salubrious, and very warm the air;
And every convenience is within the bathers' reach,
Besides, there's very beautiful walks by the sea beach.
The visitors to Nairn can pass away the time agreeably,
By viewing Tarbetness, which slopes downwards to the sea;
And Queen Street is one of the prettiest thoroughfares,
Because there's splendid shops in it, and stocked with different wares.
And there's ornamental grounds, and lovely shady nooks,
Which is a great advantage to visitors while reading their books;
And there's a certain place known as the Ladies' Beach,
So private that no intruder can them reach.
And there's many neat cottages with gardens very nice,
And picturesque villas, which can be rented at a reasonable price;
Besides, there's a golf course for those that such a game seeks,
Which would prove a great attraction to the knights of clubs and cleeks.
The surrounding scenery of Nairn is magnificent to be seen,
Especially its fertile fields and woodlands so green;
Besides, not far from Nairn, there's Cawdor Castle, the ancient seat
Of the noble Thanes of Cawdor, with its bold turrets so neat.
And its massive proportions is very imposing to see,
Because the arched entrance is secured by a drawbridge and a fosse;
And visitors will be allowed all over the grounds to roam,
Besides shown over the castle if the Earl is not at home.
The scenery surrounding the castle is charming in the summertime,
And the apples in the orchard there is very fine,
Also the flower-beds are most beautiful to see,
Especially in the month of June, when the birds sing merrily.
Then there's the ancient stronghold of the Bays of Lochloy,
And visitors when they see it will it heartily enjoy;
And a little further on there's the blasted heath of Macbeth,
And a hillock where the witches are wont to dance till out of breath.
And as the visitors to Nairn walk along the yellow sand,
They can see, right across the Moray Firth, the Black Island so grand,
With its productive fields and romantic scenery,
And as the tourist gazes thereon his heart fills with ecstasy.
And Darnaway Castle is well worthy of praise,
And to oblige all visitors there are open days,
When they can see the castle where one thousand warriors in all
Oft have assembled in the Earl of Randolph's Hall.
And in conclusion I will say for good bathing Nairn is the best,
And besides its pleasant scenery is of historical interest;
And the climate gives health to many visitors while there,
Therefore I would recommend Nairn for balmy pure air.
Bonnie Mary, the Maid o' the Tay,
Come! Let's go, and have a holiday
In Newport, on the braes o' the silvery Tay,
'Twill help to drive dull care away.
The scenery there is most enchanting to be seen,
Especially the fine mansions with their shrubbery green;
And the trees and ivy are beautiful to view
Growing in front of each stately home in the avenue.
There the little birds and beautiful butterflies
Are soaring heavenwards almost to the skies,
And the busy bees are to be seen on the wing,
As from flower to flower they hummingly sing,
As they gather honey all the day,
From flowery gardens of Newport on the braes o' the Tay.
And as we view the gardens our hearts will feel gay
After being pent up in the workshop all the day.
Then there's a beautiful spot near an old mill,
Suitable for an artist to paint of great skill,
And the trees are arched o'erhead, lovely to be seen,
Which screens ye from the sunshine's glittering sheen.
Therefore, holiday makers, I'd have ye resort
To Newport on the braes o' the Tay for sport,
And inhale the pure air with its sweet perfume,
Emanating from the flowery gardens of Newport and the yellow broom.
And when bright Sol sinks in the West
You'll return home at night quite refreshed,
And dream in your beds of your rambles during the day
Along the bonnie braes o' the silvery Tay.
North Berwick is a watering-place with golfing links green,
With a fine bathing beach most lovely to be seen;
And there's a large number of handsome villas also,
And often it's called the Scarborough of Scotland, as Portobello.
The greatest attraction is Tantallon Castle, worthy of regard,
About three miles distant to the eastward;
Which in time of war reoeived many a shock,
And it's deemed impregnable and built on a perpendicular rock
The castle was built in times unknown to history,
But 'tis said it belonged to the Douglas family;
And the inside is a labyrinth of broken staircases,
Also ruined chambers and many dismal places.
Then there's the Berwick Law Hill, 612 feet high,
Which no doubt is very attractive to the eye,
And skirted with a wood and a public walk,
Where visitors can enjoy themselves and have a social talk.
The wood is really lovely and enchanting to be seen,
In the spring or summer season when the trees are green;
And as ye listen to the innocent birds singing merrily there,
'Twill help to elevate your spirits and drive away dull care.
Then near by Tantallon is the fishing village of Canty Bay,
Where boats can be hired to the Bass Rock, about two miles away;
And the surrounding scenery is magnificent to see,
And as the tourists view the scene it fills their hearts with glee.
Then away! then away! pleasure-seekers in bands,
And view Gullane with its beautiful sands,
Which stretch along the sandy shores of Fife,
Where the tourist can enjoy himself and be free from strife.
It ought to be lovely to be old
to be full of the peace that comes of experience
and wrinkled ripe fulfilment.
The wrinkled smile of completeness that follows a life
lived undaunted and unsoured with accepted lies
they would ripen like apples, and be scented like pippins
in their old age.
Soothing, old people should be, like apples
when one is tired of love.
Fragrant like yellowing leaves, and dim with the soft
stillness and satisfaction of autumn.
And a girl should say:
It must be wonderful to live and grow old.
Look at my mother, how rich and still she is! -
And a young man should think: By Jove
my father has faced all weathers, but it's been a life!
Don’t cover your face with your long bangs;
Try to hide your figure with your hands.
Look away when eyes lock into yours
Because you feel
They’ll cringe at the sight.
Don’t converse with the floor when you walk;
Avoid all the people that pass.
Slouch down, hunchbacked, in a crowd
Desperately, trying hard
To merge with the ground.
Don’t tell yourself you won’t pass;
Talk in a whisper.
Contract your open hand, fist it,
Drawing in,
Clutched tightly with your heart.
Don’t frown at your image on the tainted glassframe;
Look at me- I mean what I say.
Stand tall. Chest up. Look straight.
I twirled you around.
Tucked a stray hair gently behind your ear,
Wiped off the tears with my hands
And stared.
You’re beautiful.
So many have yet to see, my friend.
When our world and views are so blemished;
Superficial reigning like an implorable mountain,
Where minds cannot compass through the mists
To find the unsullied hearts below.
But even if this unwinding path continues
Let time not wait, and pass,
But mine voice to you
Past your teary eyes,
Gaze upon you, and whisper:
Beautiful.
Grace Tan
25 Jan ‘07
The grass is green
I can be seen,
I am so mean
That's why I'm mean
Look at me
I'm full of glee,
I love the sea
like a buzzy bee
I love you too
That's what I do,
I go to the zoo
To see you!
Honesty is beautiful
Kindness is beautiful
Intelligence is beautiful
Talent is beautiful
Beautiful is a romance with such abundance
Beautiful are the flowers that roam the earth
Beautiful is awaking to the sound of singing birds
Beautiful is a disguise
Playing hide and seek inside and outside
Beautiful is as naked as the rising sun
Beautiful is delightful and truthful
Beautiful is the golden daylight that shines
And the taste of sweet colored red wine
Beautiful was never ever created by mistake
Beautiful is the ingredient we bake life's cake
When all or nothing is at stake
I am beautiful
You are beautiful
We are beautiful
Beautiful is great
Beautiful is sweet
Beautiful is love
Beautiful is power
Come to me Mr. & Mrs. Beautiful
Let me into your little secret
Of why you are so obedient and dutiful
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
Check out my bestseller Alien book from Amazon in September 2012. (Only Trees Live Forever)
All my books are available on Amazon
Your so beautiful
Beautiful to me
Your so beautiful
God sent you here for me
How could I have known my love for you
Would grow into something so beautiful
My love to you I found
So sacred and so true
I promised all my love to only you
At night I pray weýll meet and always stay
And when I say ýi love youý
In a special way,
I wanna spend my life with only you
Your so beautiful
Beautiful to me
I just love the way you make me feel
I just wanna listen to the music
And think about your pretty smile
I just think about you and only you
Your so special to me
I just love you
Please, donýt you go nowhere
Your so beautiful
Beautiful to me
Your so beautiful
God sent you here for me
And he showed me a pure River of Water of Life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the Throne of God and of the Lamb." -- Rev. xxii. 1
Shall we gather at the river
Where bright angel feet have trod;
With its crystal tide forever
Flowing by the throne of God?
CHORUS.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
On the margin of the river,
Washing up its silver spray,
We will walk and worship ever,
All the happy, golden day.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
On the bosom of the river,
Where the Saviour-king we own,
We shall meet, and sorrow never
'Neath the glory of the throne. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
Ere we reach the shining river,
Lay we every burden down;
Grace our spirits will deliver,
And provide a robe and crown. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
At the smiling of the river,
Rippling with the Saviour's face,
Saints, whom death will never sever,
Lift their songs of saving grace. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
Soon we'll reach the shining river,
Soon our pilgrimage will cease,
Soon our happy hearts will quiver
With the melody of peace. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
Off on the prairie, where the balmy air
Kisses the waving corn,
There lives a farmer, with a daughter fair--
Fair as a summer's morn!
She has a nature gentle as a dove,
Pure as the mountain snows;
Say! is it strange that everyone should love--
Love such a girl as Rose?
Beautiful Rose! lovely Rose!
Pride of the prairie bower!
Everybody loves her--everybody knows
She is the fairest flower.
Rose is a lady yet from early dawn,
Labors her skillful hand;
She is the housewife, now her mother's gone--
Gone to the better land.
Rose has the beauty--father has the gold--
Both will be hers one day;
For she is young, while he is growing old--
Old people pass away.
Clerks from the city, plowmen from the field,
Lords from a foreign land;
Each in their turn have very humbly kneeled--
Kneeled for her heart and hand.
But to them all she made the same reply--
Kindly but firmly, "No!"
And none but I can tell the reason why--
Why she should treat them so.
Beautiful Rothesay, your scenery is most grand,
You cannot be surpassed in fair Scotland.
Tis healthy for holiday makers, to go there,
For the benefit of their health, by inhaling the pure air
And to hear the innocent birds, on a fine Summer day,
Carolling their sweet songs, so lively and gay,
Therefore, holiday makers, be advised by me,
And visit beautiful Rothesay, by the side of the Sea.
Then sweet Jessie, let us go,
To Scotland's garden of Eden O!
And spend the lovely Summer day,
In the beautiful village of Rothesay.
There you can see the ships, passing to and fro,
Which will drive away dull care, and woe,
And, the heavens breath smells wooingly there,
Therefore, let's away dear Jessie, to inhale the balmy air.
The mansions, there, are most beautiful to be seen,
Likewise the trees, and shrubberies, green.
Therefore, we will feel happy and gay,
Walking hand in hand, together the live long day.
Along the beautiful walks with our hearts fu' cheerie,
My dear love! Until we grow weary.
Then, return home at night, with our spirits light and gay,
After viewing the beautiful scenery of Rothesay.
All ye lovers of the picturesque, away
To beautiful Torquay and spend a holiday
'Tis health for invalids for to go there
To view the beautiful scenery and inhale the fragrant air,
Especially in the winter and spring-time of the year,
When the weather is not too hot, but is balmy and clear.
Torquay lies in a very deep and well-sheltered spot,
And at first sight by strangers it won't be forgot;
'Tis said to be the mildest place in ah England,
And surrounded by lofty hills most beautiful and grand.
Twas here that William of Orange first touched English ground,
And as he viewed the beautiful spot his heart with joy did rebound;
And an obelisk marks the spot where he did stand,
And which for long will be remembered throughout England.
Torquay, with its pier and its diadem of white,
Is a moat beautiful and very dazzling sight,
With its white villas glittering on the sides of its green hills,
And as the tourist gases thereon with joy his heart fills.
The heights around Torquay are most beautiful to be seen,
Especially when the trees and shrubberies are green,
And to see the pretty houses under the cliff is a treat,
And the little town enclosed where two deep valleys meet.
There is also a fine bathing establishment near the pier,
Where the tourist can bathe without any fear;
And as the tourists there together doth stroll,
I advise them to visit a deep chasm called Daddy's Hole.
Then there's Bablicome, only two miles from Torquay,
Which will make the stranger's heart feel gay,
As he stands on the cliff four hundred feet above the sea,
Looking down,'tis sure to fill his heart with ecstasy.
The lodging-houses at Bablicome are magnificent to be seen,
And the accommodation there would suit either king or queen,
And there's some exquisite cottages embowered in the woodland,
And sloping down to the sea shore, is really very grand.
You do not wonder at Napoleon's exclamation
As he stood on the deck of the "Bellerophon," in a fit of admiration,
When the vessel was lying to windbound,
He exclaimed - "Oh, what a beautiful country!" his joy was profound.
And as the tourist there in search of beautiful spots doth rove,
Let them not forget to enquire for Anstey's Cove,
And there they will see a beautiful beach of milky white,
And the sight will fill their hearts with delight.
Oh! beautiful Torquay, with your lovely scenery,
And your magnificent cottages sloping down to the sea,
You are the most charming spot in all England,
With your picturesque bay and villas most grand.
And, in conclusion, to tourists I will say,
Off! off to Torquay and make no delay,
For the scenery is magnificent, and salubrious the air,
And 'tis good for the health to reside there.
To Original Music
The people in this nation,
Have kept for many years,
February twenty-second,
That day we love it dear.
It's our forefather's birthday,
Brave, noble Washington;
And may we ever keep it,
Through all the years to come.
CHORUS:
Beautiful twenty-second,
Beautiful twenty-second,
May the people ever keep it,
Beautiful twenty-second.
One of the constitution builders,
Was that brave, noble man,
He fought under that dear flag
That's loved throughout our land.
He went through many battles,
He fought for liberty,
That this glorious republic
A nation great may be.
Chorus --
Oh, keep the twenty-second,
In honor to his name,
Who fought to gain our freedom
From England's British chains.
Now he is sweetly sleeping,
Brave, noble Washington,
May the people not forget him,
Columbia's noblest son.
The village of Penicuik, with its neighbouring spinning mills,
Is most lovely to see, and the Pentland Hills;
And though of a barren appearance and some parts steep,
They are covered with fine pasture and sustain flocks of sheep.
There, tourists while there should take a good look,
By viewing the surrounding beauties of Penicuik;
About three miles south-west is the romantic locality
Of Newhall, which is most fascinating and charming to see.
Then about half a mile above Newhall the River Esk is seen,
Which sparkles like crystal in the sun's sheen;
And on the Esk there's a forking ridge forming a linn
Betwixt two birch trees, which makes a noisy din.
And on a rocky protuberance close by is Mary Stuart's bower
Where Scotland's ill-starred Queen spent many an hour,
Which is composed of turf and a nice round seat
Commanding a full view of the linn- the sight is quite a treat.
Then there's Habbie's Howe, where the beauties of summer grow,
Which cannot be excelled in Scotland for pastoral show;
Tis one of the most beautiful landscapes in fair Scotland,
For the scenery there is most charming and grand.
Then ye tourists to the village of Penicuik haste away,
And there spend the lovely summer day
By climbing the heathy, barren Pentland Hills,
And drink the pure water from their crystal rills.
WOMEN sit, or move to and fro- some old,
some young;
The young are beautiful- but the old are more beautiful than the
young.
Young lovers entwined on the grass
On a beautiful hot summer's day;
Weary new parents breaking into a smile
As they watch their kids giggle and play.
The excited shriek of a bubbling child
As Christmas Day dawns clear;
Old grannies bumbling and grumbling
About all those 'prices so dear! '
The peaceful look on a wrinkled man's face
As he reminisces on times gone past;
The perfect layer of untrodden snow
And the prisms of light that it casts.
The purpley orange setting sun -
Sure to rise pure and bright in the morn;
The cloudless night sky, embedded with stars
That will last from dusk until dawn.
The crystalline tears of a beautiful girl
On receiving a much adored gift;
An undisturbed lake, a shimmering blue,
With only pure white swans adrift.
The flight of confetti that sways in the wind
As the cheerful wedding bells chime;
The gleeful mirth of the poetry fan
When a poet contrives a bad rhyme!
The delicious intensity leading up
To a newly found couple's first kiss;
An unsure child beaming, fully content
Due to a compliment not gone amiss.
The merrily burning, friendly log fire,
By which a tired cat has curled;
I truly believe, and i tell you all now -
We live in a beautiful world!
Beauty is not a superficial form
Each has their own in essential nature
And in the actions they perform
Until the dissolution of their life
To leave beauty’s impressions in our hearts
Yesterdays beauty never leaves or departs.
Beauty is all around
Each and every place it may be found
As you look with open eyes
Upon the forms that nature makes
Then man seeks to imitate
Yearning to match that beauty all around.
Beauty if you cannot find
Beauty must be in mind
Beauty is in purity
Beauty of simplicity
Beauty runs right through and through
Beauty in me, and them, and you.
Beauty, beauteous, beautiful
Beauty in heaven
Beauty in fire
Beauty in earth
And finally beauty in a simple verse.
Because you’re Beautiful
This poem’s addressed
To you
Because you’re beautiful
No matter what
You do
Because you’re beautiful
The sun rises
Every day
Because you’re beautiful
The mist shrouds a
Dreamy day
Because you’re beautiful
A blossom blooms and holds
Its scent
Because you’re beautiful
Songs sung in your heart
Are meant
Because you’re beautiful
Reflections shine
And glint
Because you’re beautiful
Poems are written
Heaven sent
Because you are beautiful
This is all that this
Poem’s said
Just in case you may have
Any doubt
This poem's heaven sent
To tell you
You are beautiful
And that is what this poem
Is about.
It is raining again
In Detroit tonight, Susan.
I happen to think
It is pretty,
As pretty as you,
As pretty
As a hundred girls
Laughing in the park.
Pink’s pretty passion, Red’s re-revelries
Blue’s babbling brook, Green’s gracefully glee
Purple’s past presence, Orange's overseas
Yellow’s young yearning, your Love sets me free
Beautiful ranting, of rain color sill
Colors a picture, as image stands still
Full of all fullness, my heart’s past its fill
Loving you darling, with all of my will
Crazy Loneliness Hijacks Memory of a Beautiful Girl
Last night
I missed you so much
I made love to
your nightdress
... passionately.
Now your nightdress
hides from me
slinks under covers and pillows
avoids my eyes.
I can't take another night  without you!
Your nightie can't take another night with me!
I am holding your dresses hostage
threatening them with kisses...caresses
if they make one false move.
Your other clothes
tremble in the wardrobe
...come back to me!
Tears are falling,
From beautiful eyes.
Tears are falling,
Because of beautiful lies.
Tears are falling,
Because of what you said.
Tears are falling,
Onto a beautiful bed.
Tears are falling,
In a beautiful stream.
Tears are falling,
Because of a beautiful dream.
Tears are falling,
Because of your lies.
Tears are falling,
As beautiful dies.
If you see me roaming Woodward Avenue
Down by the Majestic Theater,
I’ll be humming a song and digging the homeless,
Taking in the delicious aroma of pizza
Baking in the storefront,
Gazing at the young women and men
Drinking beer at outdoor tables
As conversations filter from the bowling alley.
I’ll laugh my ass off if a fight breaks out,
Everything is beautiful and cool on a Friday night,
Even the paramedics and cops smile
As their sirens wail and flash,
An old man takes his cane and smacks another
And it is all divine hi jinks
That a fun-loving God condones.
This city has been in decline for some time,
Dirty buildings and streets that often seem
Like a lonely ghost town,
But I can find just enough life around the corner
From the college to make it all sparkle
With the excitement of music and poetry
Interwoven with the inexhaustive heartbeats of desire.
Oh, Marcia,
I want your long blonde beauty
to be taught in high school,
so kids will learn that God
lives like music in the skin
and sounds like a sunshine harpsicord.
I want high school report cards
to look like this:
i woke up
my body was cold
i climbed off the bed
i tried not to fall
i couldnt see
everything was a blur
i remember being beat
before i reached unconciesness
i heard them speak
they talked of blood
and the next chapter to
the book of shadows
i felt the blade
but it didnt hurt
i couldnt speak
maybe i couldnt even breathe
all i know is right now im in the hospital
laying in the bed
i hear the breathing machine behind me buzz inside my head
who makes the decision?
God's beautiful sky
you hold the earth in place
your friends surround your beautiful face
Your friends the clouds are your beard long
The birds fly through your white fluffy hair
and sing to you a song
You hold the heavens above
and the earth below
I can see you
wherever I go
Your friends the sun and moon
are your eyes and ears
the moon shines bright through the night
to sooth a child's fears
A tree starts as a seed
and grows up really high
but never get to touch their friend
the sky
Your friends the stars above
are your tokens of love
that sometimes shoot across your beautiful face
You can see them up in space
Look at the sky
Cause it is watching you
and when you see a rainbow
Your wishes will come true
You shape my bones into your hunting coat.
Rain slants like needles through the falling air.
The field is vast with the old blood of leaves.
Fire in the windows warms my eyes to sleep.
Trees interlace the hills with gray patchwork.
I feel your fingers mend my broken wings.
Wind fades your name into a thread of smoke.
I cry its incandescence through my dreams.
We must believe that gray is beautiful,
East still exists although its outlines dim.
I feel the wind of dawn upon my face.
Put your hand there, and you will feel it too.
Previously published, Auraq, Pakistan
Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful World,
With the wonderful water round you curled,
And the wonderful grass upon your breast--
World, you are beautifully drest.
The wonderful air is over me,
And the wonderful wind is shaking the tree,
It walks on the water, and whirls the mills,
And talks to itself on the tops of the hills.
You friendly Earth! how far do you go,
With the wheat-fields that nod and the rivers that flow,
With cities and gardens, and cliffs, and isles,
And people upon you for thousands of miles?
Ah, you are so great, and I am so small,
I tremble to think of you, World, at all;
And yet, when I said my prayers to-day,
A whisper inside me seemed to say,
"You are more than the Earth, though you are such a dot:
You can love and think, and the Earth cannot!"
How beautiful
is the morning,
when the sun
rapes the darkness
and steals the virginity of the day,
spilling red across the sky.
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would write it special and only to you
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
So that we will forever remain so very very true
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
With more than a goodness like something new
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
Like the everlasting stay of the sky so blue
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would pray to God
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would work very hard for the Lord
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
With happiness the remain all through the year
f only I could write a beautiful love poem
Knowing that you will be very near
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
One so very very true
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would write it just for you
We were both sitting
In a little non-descript bar
Where the loneliness
Hung heavily in the air
Like cigarette smoke.
In nearly drunken conversation,
You said you were
Sadly obsessed
By girl named Erica
Who turned into
A mythical dream and disappeared
Like Daphne into a laurel tree.
And I felt
Like we were brothers
In a world of beautiful women
Who fly away
Like untamed exotic birds
Which men can never cage.
And the bartender
Turned up the radio:
“The trouble is,
That you’re in love
With someone else,
It should be me,
It should be me! ”*
Beautiful - beautiful morning outside,
Bright with the sunshine and glows in the sky.
Birdies are singing and dewdrops are falling:
It's a beautiful morning outside.
Day after day in this wonderful way,
Nature is showing its wonderful face,
With sunshine at mornings, and cheers every where;
It is morning again in this world.
I was eager in heaven to go on a stroll;
It was mother who who showed me this wonderful world,
With radiance and sunshine and glory to all;
I forgot the heavens the place of my soul.
Now that I am grown up a man in this world,
I will sing to the glory of God's given love.
I will look to the sunshine for youth and for joy,
For sunshine brings morning to all.
If you choose it, no one can get any...but lose a lot
When a flower was faded
You needn't to die
When the sun was down
You needn't to die
So why you want to choose another way to live?
You don't know that world is perfect or evil!
When you die
You can't see another beautiful flower in bloom
When you die
You can't see the red hot sun's out
Yes, you can't see it~because you die
No one wants to abandon you
And god loves you too
But  all of this
It's you abandon yourself
you thought that death can remove all of your pain.
But you don't understand
The biggest misery is live in beauty but you don't know it!
Before your mind controled by devil
Before you come to another world with 'Hello'
Think about
Life is beautiful
Dear Johnny, I return my thanks to you;
But more than thanks is your due
For publishing the scurrilous poetry about me
Leaving the Ancient City of Dundee.
The rhymster says, we'll weary for your schauchlin' form;
But if I'm not mistaken I've seen bonnier than his in a field of corn;
And, as I venture to say and really suppose,
His form seen in a cornfield would frighten the crows.
But, dear Johnny, as you said, he's just a lampoon,
And as ugly and as ignorant as a wild baboon;
And, as far as I can judge or think,
He is a vendor of strong drink.
He says my nose would make a peasemeal warrior weep;
But I've seen a much bonnier sweep,
And a more manly and wiser man
Than he is by far, deny it who can!
And, in conclusion, I'd have him to beware,
And never again to interfere with a poet's hair,
Because Christ the Saviour wore long hair,
And many more good men, I do declare.
Therefore I laugh at such bosh that appears in print.
So I hope from me you will take the hint,
And never publish such bosh of poetry again,
Or else you'll get the famous Weekly News a bad name.
On a warm sultry night last August,
I went to a rock concert featuring Liz Phair
And several other female artists.
A male friend of mine couldn’t go with me,
But I didn’t really mind, I love music so much
That I never want to talk or think about anything but the show.
Once I was there, though, I ran into three female friends:
Erica, Diana, and Soha!
I was as nearly as exited to see them as Liz;
If I had been a puppy,
My little tail would have been
Ecstatically wagging!
I was in the front row and toward the end of the show,
I reached my hand toward Liz Phair wanting
To slightly touch her, but she placed a guitar pick
Into my outstretched hand, I thought I might have a heart attack!
My three friends were cheering me on like perfect angels!
When the show was over, I walked out with my three friends.
The concert was promoted by a makeup company,
And they were giving out free packets of makeup.
My three friends, all beautiful ladies, took one;
Being right on their heels, I also took one.
The woman handing out the makeup gave me a peculiar look,
But I never thought about it, but Erica, being the most wonderfully
Outspoken and lovely woman, asked me almost accusingly,
“Are you going to use that, Uriah? ” Innocently I replied,
“What is it? ” Soha joined in, “Eyeliner. Can I have it? ”
I had never used eyeliner before and had no real intentions to start,
So I was quite happy to give it to Soha!
But on the way home from the show I thought,
I’m glad they weren’t giving out tampons,
I probably would have taken a handful of those, too!
All things bright and beautiful,
All creatures great and small,
All things wise and wonderful,
The Lord God made them all.
Each little flower that opens,
Each little bird that sings,
He made their glowing colours,
He made their tiny wings.
The rich man in his castle,
The poor man at his gate,
God made them, high or lowly,
And ordered their estate.
The purple-headed mountain,
The river running by,
The sunset, and the morning,
That brightens up the sky;
The cold wind in the winter,
The pleasant summer sun,
The ripe fruits in the garden,
He made them every one.
The tall trees in the greenwood,
The meadows where we play,
The rushes by the water,
We gather every day;--
He gave us eyes to see them,
And lips that we might tell,
How great is God Almighty,
Who has made all things well.
I have two beautiful children
Was it excellent? A daughter and a son
The chubby twelve yrs old is Pim
The younger 9 is a bit slim, Pete is the other one
Pim is a lovely funny girl
Her hair is a bit curly curl, she said like her mom
She loves to go to school
And she is very cool, telling me she wants to drum
She has a lot of good friends
Like a choo choo train, her friends at school
B, Manao, Fon, Puen, Tob, Deer and Dae
It’s enough for today, they all are wonderful
Pim is a big fan of MTV
I always see she listens to the song
When she’s home, she turns Television on
MTV of course, cos she loves to sing along
She likes to do some art works
Painting, drawing the bird, folding some origami
Making me lots of beautiful card
Coming straight from her heart, they’re very pretty
Oh dear, saying a lot about Pim
Pete loves to swim and he likes to play
He stays with Ed his father
He has a little brother from his stepmother A
Japanese super heroes he likes
The ones with the light, he loves the most
V 8 I chose for his birthday present
When he turned to 7, n I also gave him some clothes
Pete is a very sweet boy
He keeps his toys very nice on the shelf
He does not look like his sister
But looks like his mother, he’s charming by himself
I love very much my two kids
I try to be strict for their good manners
I hope to see both of them grow
Hoping time pass a bit slow, they can make me pleasure
I have to end my poem right now
I hope they both proud having me as their mother
Teaching them for me is difficult some time
Getting help from Khun Ta Khun Yai, as they called my mother & father
My dove, my beautiful one,
Arise, arise!
The night-dew lies
Upon my lips and eyes.
The odorous winds are weaving
A music of sighs:
Arise, arise,
My dove, my beautiful one!
I wait by the cedar tree,
My sister, my love,
White breast of the dove,
My breast shall be your bed.
The pale dew lies
Like a veil on my head.
My fair one, my fair dove,
Arise, arise!
In a world of barbies, implants and a size 26 waist
heartache's no more prevalent than in her with a beautiful face.
No more wanted for her looks than her heart
her persona fades as soon as puberty starts.
She screams celebrity in a small town manner
In a world that passes judgement by how much you achieve
she must use her 'talents' as the world perceives.
As years go by her beauty's but a nuisance
to the person inside made up of more substance.
She SCREAMS celebrity in a small town manner
There's no plastic surgery to alter your soul
no place for outward beauty in the world of good will.
To wed true love's but a leap of trust
so she squanders her beauty as a matter of must.
For small town love in true Hollywood fashion.
Beautiful landscape! I could look on thee
For hours,--unmindful of the storm and strife,
And mingled murmurs of tumultuous life.
Here, all is still as fair--the stream, the tree,
The wood, the sunshine on the bank: no tear
No thought of time's swift wing, or closing night
Which comes to steal away the long sweet light,
No sighs of sad humanity are here.
Here is no tint of mortal change--the day
Beneath whose light the dog and peasant-boy
Gambol with look, and almost bark, of joy--
Still seems, though centuries have passed, to stay.
Then gaze again, that shadowed scenes may teach
Lessons of peace and love, beyond all speech.
A Brother and Sister
O I admire and sorrow! The heart’s eye grieves
Discovering you, dark tramplers, tyrant years.
A juice rides rich through bluebells, in vine leaves,
And beauty’s dearest veriest vein is tears.
Happy the father, mother of these! Too fast:
Not that, but thus far, all with frailty, blest
In one fair fall; but, for time’s aftercast,
Creatures all heft, hope, hazard, interest.
And are they thus? The fine, the fingering beams
Their young delightful hour do feature down
That fleeted else like day-dissolvèd dreams
Or ringlet-race on burling Barrow brown.
She leans on him with such contentment fond
As well the sister sits, would well the wife;
His looks, the soul’s own letters, see beyond,
Gaze on, and fall directly forth on life.
But ah, bright forelock, cluster that you are
Of favoured make and mind and health and youth,
Where lies your landmark, seamark, or soul’s star?
There’s none but truth can stead you. Christ is truth.
There ’s none but good can bé good, both for you
And what sways with you, maybe this sweet maid;
None good but God—a warning wavèd to
One once that was found wanting when Good weighed.
Man lives that list, that leaning in the will
No wisdom can forecast by gauge or guess,
The selfless self of self, most strange, most still,
Fast furled and all foredrawn to No or Yes.
Your feast of; that most in you earnest eye
May but call on your banes to more carouse.
Worst will the best. What worm was here, we cry,
To have havoc-pocked so, see, the hung-heavenward boughs?
Enough: corruption was the world’s first woe.
What need I strain my heart beyond my ken?
O but I bear my burning witness though
Against the wild and wanton work of men.
. . . . . . .
Simplicity is beauty,
Purity, divinity;
The virtue of quality
Excels that of quantity.
Beauty that pleases the sense is good,
Beauty and vitue are good,
Seek for things simple but noble,
Virtue alone can ennoble.
True beauty is simply graceful,
The graceful are beautiful,
There's beauty that's deceitful,
Nature itself is beautiful,
Beauty is perfection of form,
Virtue and good sense conforms,
Beautiful things may deform,
But virtue act in good form.
a Korean woman
had been sitting
in my cultural awareness class,
for an hour,
and couldn’t understand
how African-Americans
had so much trouble
getting along with whites.
She never had trouble until,
we started talking about stereotypes
that included Asians.
They are always sneaky looking,
shrewd businessmen,
have exotic women
can’t drive well,
but know karate
and they all have slanted eyes.
She almost cried,
before she stammered,
“Slanted eyes are beautiful! '
'Slanted eyes are beautiful! '
and for the first time
everyone in the room
understood
why
Something beautiful
You gave me,
Alive and
Needing care,
And though I tried
To nurture it,
It wound up
Dead and bare.
Something in me
Strangled it,
Crushed its frail
Life out,
And having sought
To love it
I felt shame
And guilt
And doubt.
You gave me then
Another gift,
Beautiful and fresh.
Again I snuffed its spirit out.
Again I brought it death,
For something in me murderous
Upon it took its toll
As I tried to nourish it
With all my heart and soul.
And now I stand
Beside my life
Of painful memories.
Don't let this happen
Any more. Oh, don't
Allow it, please!
Send me to the Grower's School,
To learn to nurture free
The precious gifts You send my way —
To let them grow and be,
To join them in a love song
Ever beautiful and new,
Full of joyous spirit
Of gratitude to You.
IF when the sun at noon displays
His brighter rays,
Thou but appear,
He then, all pale with shame and fear,
Quencheth his light,
Hides his dark brow, flies from thy sight,
And grows more dim,
Compared to thee, than stars to him.
If thou but show thy face again,
When darkness doth at midnight reign,
The darkness flies, and light is hurl'd
Round about the silent world :
So as alike thou driv'st away
Both light and darkness, night and day.
X
Yet, love, mere love, is beautiful indeed
And worthy of acceptation. Fire is bright,
Let temple burn, or flax; an equal light
Leaps in the flame from cedar-plank or weed:
And love is fire. And when I say at need
I love thee . . . mark! . . . I love thee—in thy sight
I stand transfigured, glorified aright,
With conscience of the new rays that proceed
Out of my face toward thine. There's nothing low
In love, when love the lowest: meanest creatures
Who love God, God accepts while loving so.
And what I feel, across the inferior features
Of what I am, doth flash itself, and show
How that great work of Love enhances Nature's.
Gloomy faces in grocery stores
Traverse the aisles of the vegetables.
No one seems happy plotting out
And paying for their sustenance,
But personally, I adore
Every bag of gorgeously orange carrots
And the lovely dark green broccoli.
And how divine to see Italian wine
Or recently baked apple pies,
Sometimes I can’t believe my eyes
To be in such a beautiful place!
In reverence I bow my head,
I can’t wait to go home and say my prayers
And break my bread.
The beautiful American word, Sure,
As I have come into a room, and touch
The lamp's button, and the light blooms with such
Certainty where the darkness loomed before,
As I care for what I do not know, and care
Knowing for little she might not have been,
And for how little she would be unseen,
The intercourse of lives miraculous and dear.
Where the light is, and each thing clear,
separate from all others, standing in its place,
I drink the time and touch whatever's near,
And hope for day when the whole world has that face:
For what assures her present every year?
In dark accidents the mind's sufficient grace.
Beautiful, black-eyed boy,
O lithe-limbed Beeshareen!
Face that finds no maid coy,
Page for some peerless queen:
Some Orient queen of old,
Sumptuous in woven gold,
Close-clinging fold on fold,
Lightning, with gems between.
Bred in the desert, where
Only to breathe and be
Alive in living air
Is finest ecstasy;
Where just to ride or rove,
With sun or stars above,
Intoxicates like love,
When love shall come to thee.
Thy lovely limbs are bare;
Only a rag, in haste,
Draped with a princely air,
Girdles they slender waist.
And gaudy beads and charms,
Dangling from neck and arms,
Ward off dread spells and harms
Of Efreets of the waste.
Caressed of wind and sun,
Across the white-walled town
Fawnlike we saw thee run,
Light Love in Mocha brown!
Wild Cupid, without wings,
Twanging thy viol strings;
With crocodiles and rings
Bartered for half a crown.
Spoilt darling of our bark,
Smiling with teeth as white
As when across the dark
There breaks a flash of light.
And what a careless grace
Showed in thy gait and pace;
Eyes starlike in a face
Sweet as a Nubian night!
Better than Felt or Fez,
High on thy forehead set,
Countless in lock and tress,
Waved a wild mane of jet.
Kings well might envy thee
What courts but rarely see,
Curls of rich ebony
Coiled in a coronet.
Lo--in dim days long since--
The strolling Almehs tell,
Thou shouldst have been a prince,
Boy of the ebon fell!
If truth the poet sings,
Thy tribe, oh Beduin, springs
From those lost tribes of Kings,
Once Kings in Israel.
Ah me! the camp-fires gleam
Out yonder, where the sands
Fade like a lotos dream
In hollow twilight lands.
Our sail swells to the blast,
Our boat speeds far and fast,
Farewell! And to the last
Smile, waving friendly hands.
* * * * * *
From England's storm-girt isle,
O'er seas where seagulls wail,
Rocked on the rippling Nile,
We drift with drooping sail.
On waters hushed at night,
Where stars of Egypt write
In hieroglyphs of light
Their undeciphered tale.
Forlorn sits Assouan;
Where is her boy, her pride?--
Now in the lamplit Khan,
Now by the riverside,
Or where the Soudanese,
Under mimosa trees,
Chaunt mournful melodies,
We've sought him far and wide.
Oh, desert-nurtured Child,
How dared they carry thee,
Far from thy native Wild,
Across the Western Sea?
Packed off, poor boy, at last,
With many a plaster cast
Of plinth and pillar vast,
And waxen mummies piled!
Ah! just like other ware,
For a lump sum or so
Shipped to the World's great Fair--
To big Chicago Show!
With mythic beasts and things,
Beetles and bulls with wings,
And imitation Sphinx,
Ranged row on curious row!
Beautiful, black-eyed boy;
Ah me! how strange it is
That thou, the desert's joy,
Whom heavenly winds would kiss,
With Ching and Chang-hwa ware,
Blue pots and bronzes rare,
Shouldst now be over there
Shown at Porkopolis.
Gone like a lovely dream,
Child of the starry smile;
Gone from the glowing stream
Glassing its greenest isle!
We've sought, but sought in vain;
Thou wilt not come again,
Never for bliss or pain,
Home to thy orphaned Nile.
They drift down the hall together;
He smiles in her lifted eyes.
Like waves of that mighty river
The strains of the ‘Danube’ rise.
They float on its rhythmic measure,
Like leaves on a summer stream;
And here, in this scene of pleasure,
I bury my sweet dead dream.
Through the cloud of her dusky tresses,
Like a star, shines out her face;
And the form of his strong arm presses
Is sylph-like in its grace.
As a leaf on the bounding river
Is lost in the seething sea,
I know that for ever and ever
My dream is lost to me.
And still the viols are playing
That grand old wordless rhyme;
And still those two are swaying
In perfect tune and time.
If the great bassoons that mutter,
If the clarinets that blow,
Were given the chance to utter
The secret things they know.
Would the lists of the slain who slumber
On the Danube’s battle-plains
The unknown hosts outnumber
Who die ‘neath the ‘Danube’s’ strains?
Those fall where the cannons rattle,
‘Mid the rain of shot and shell;
But these, in a fiercer battle,
Find death in the music’s swell.
With the river’s roar of passion
Is blended the dying groan;
But here, in the halls of fashion,
Hearts break, and make no moan.
And the music, swelling and sweeping,
Like the river, knows it all;
But none are counting or keeping
The lists of those who fall.
One wading a Fall meadow finds on all sides
The Queen Anne's Lace lying like lilies
On water; it glides
So from the walker, it turns
Dry grass to a lake, as the slightest shade of you
Valleys my mind in fabulous blue Lucernes.
The beautiful changes as a forest is changed
By a chameleon's tuning his skin to it;
As a mantis, arranged
On a green leaf, grows
Into it, makes the leaf leafier, and proves
Any greenness is greener than anyone knows.
Your hands hold roses always in a way that says
They are not only yours; the beautiful changes
In such kind ways,
Wishing ever to sunder
Things and Thing's selves for a second finding, to lose
For a moment all that it touches back to wonder.
Beautiful Ancient City of Perth,
One of the grandest on the earth,
With your stately mansions and streets so clean,
And situated between two Inches green,
Which are most magnificent to be seen
The North Inch is beautiful to behold,
Where the daisies and butter-cups their petals unfold,
In the warm summer time of the year,
While the clear silvery Tay rolls by quite near,
And such a scene will your spirits cheer.
The South Inch is lovely, be it said,
And a splendid spot for military parade,
While along the highway there are some big trees,
Where the soldiers can rest or stand at ease,
Whichever way their commanders please.
The surrounding woodland scenery is very grand,
It cannot be surpassed in fair Scotland,
Especially the elegant Palace of Scone, in history renowned,
Where some of Scotland's kings were crowned.
And the Fair Maid of Perth's house is worthy to be seen,
Which is well worth visiting by Duke, Lord, or Queen;
The Fair Maid of Perth caused the battle on the North Inch
'Twixt the Clans Chattan and Kay, and neither of them did flinch,
Until they were cut up inch by inch.
The scenery is lovely in the month of June,
When trees and flowers are in full bloom,
Especially near by the Palace of Scone,
Where the blackbird is heard whistling all day
While near by rolls on the clear silvery Tay.
Of all the cities in Scotland, beautiful Perth for me,
For it is the most elegant city that ever I did see,
With its beautiful woodland scenery along the river Tay,
Which would make the tourist's heart feel gay,
While fishing for trout on a fine summer day.
There, the angler, if he likes to resort
For a few day's fishing, can have excellent sport,
And while he is fishing during the day,
He will feel delighted with the scenery along the river Tay.
And the fish he catches will drive dull care away,
And his toil will be rewarded for the fatigues of the day.
Beautiful city of Perth, magnificent to be seen,
With your grand statues and Inches green,
And your lovely maidens fair and gay,
Which, in conclusion, I will venture to say,
You cannot be surpassed at the present day.
I love you more than my old soccer cleats,
The ones I’ll never give up.
I love you more than the perfect field,
The one I use to warm up.
I love you more than my soccer ball,
The one that’s perfect for amazing passes.
I love you more than me running along those different types of grasses.
I love you more than the cheering crowds,
The stands made out of plaster.
I love you more than that perfect kick,
That I have yet to master.
I love you more than my soccer cleats the ones that hold all reason.
I love you more than my coach, my soccer team and my season.
I love you more than winning that world cup,
That we have yet to reclaim.
I can’t believe I love you more than the beautiful game.
Come, cuddle your head on my shoulder, dear,
Your head like the golden-rod,
And we will go sailing away from here
To the beautiful land of Nod.
Away from life’s hurry, and flurry, and worry,
Away from earth’s shadows and gloom,
To a world of fair weather we’ll float off together
Where the roses are always in bloom.
Just shut up your eyes, and fold your hands,
Your hands like the leaves of a rose,
And we will go sailing to those fair lands
That an atlas never shows.
On the North and the West they are bounded by rest,
On the South and the East by dreams;
‘Tis the country ideal, where nothing is real,
But everything only seems.
Just dropp down the curtains of your dear eyes,
Those eyes like a bright blue-bell,
And we will sail out under starlit skies
To the land where the fairies dwell.
Down the river of sleep our barque  shall sweep,
Till it reaches the mystical isle
Which no man has seen, but where all have been,
And there we will pause for awhile.
I will croon you a song as we float along,
To that shore that is blessed of God,
Then ho! for that fair land, we’re off for that rare land,
That beautiful Land of Nod.
What gives it power makes it change its mind
At each extreme, and lean its rising rain
Down low, first one and then the other way;
In which exchange humility and pride
Reverse, forgive, arise, and die again,
Wherefore it holds at both ends of the day
The rainbow in its scattering grains of spray.
Anonymous submission.
The mountain valley is the place of nature's gift
Through out the season it shower with beautiful nature
When you stand in between the mountain valley
You feel that the heaven blesses you dearly
You feel that the greenery hug you tightly
You feel that the cool breeze touches you tenderly
You see that the water falls roll over violently
You see that the trees dance to the tune of wind smoothly
You hear that the birds sing nature choir happily
You watch that the animals walk freely
When the nature open its heart widely
It gives everyone a chance to be with nature closely.
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright ©2004 Ravi Sathasivam
Now I leave this cottage lowly,
Where my love hath made her home,
And with silent footstep slowly
Through the darksome forest roam,
Luna breaks through oaks and bushes,
Zephyr hastes her steps to meet,
And the waving birch-tree blushes,
Scattering round her incense sweet.
Grateful are the cooling breezes
Of this beauteous summer night,
Here is felt the charm that pleases,
And that gives the soul delight.
Boundless is my joy; yet, Heaven,
Willingly I'd leave to thee
Thousand such nights, were one given
By my maiden loved to me!
I go to bed in Los Angeles thinking
about you.
Beautiful Sun! with thy golden rays,
To God, the wise Creator, be all praise;
For thou nourisheth all the creation,
Wherever there is found to be animation.
Without thy heat we could not live,
Then praise to God we ought to give;
For thou makest the fruits and provisions to grow,
To nourish all creatures on earth below.
Thou makest the hearts of the old feel glad,
Likewise the young child and the lad,
And the face of Nature to look green and gay,
And the little children to sport and play.
Thou also givest light unto the Moon,
Which certainly is a very great boon
To all God's creatures here below,
Throughout the world where'er they go.
How beautiful thou look'st on a summer morn,
When thou sheddest thy effulgence among the yellow corn,
Also upon lake, and river, and the mountain tops,
Whilst thou leavest behind the most lovely dewdrops!
How beautiful thou seem'st in the firmament above,
As I gaze upon thee, my heart fills with love
To God, the great Creator, Who has placed thee there,
Who watches all His creatures with an eye of care!
Thou makest the birds to sing on the tree,
Also by meadow, mountain, and lea;
And the lark high poised up in air,
Carolling its little song with its heart free from care.
Thou makest the heart of the shepherd feel gay
As he watches the little lambkins at their innocent play;
While he tends them on the hillside all day,
Taking care that none of them shall go astray.
Thou cheerest the weary traveller while on his way
During the livelong summer day,
As he admires the beautiful scenery while passing along,
And singing to himself a stave of a song.
Thou cheerest the tourist while amongst the Highland hills,
As he views their beautiful sparkling rills
Glittering like diamonds by the golden rays,
While the hills seem to offer up to God their praise.
While the bee from flower to flower does roam
To gather honey, and carry it home;
While it hums its little song in the beautiful sunshine,
And seemingly to thank the Creator divine --
For the honey it hath gathered during the day,
In the merry month of May,
When the flowers are in full bloom,
Also the sweet honeysuckle and the broom.
How beautiful thy appearance while setting in the west,
Whilst encircled with red and azure, 'tis then thou look'st best!
Then let us all thank God for thy golden light
In our prayers every morning and night!
Take the showers of April
The roses of June
The lazy sun of August
For an October honeymoon
Take the autumn leaves
Turning green to brown
The snows of winter
That will soon cover the ground
Take all these beauties
And the seven wonders of the world
Wrap them and tie them with a bow
So I can give them to my girl
She could shame any wonder
No doubt them all
For she is
The most beautiful wonder of all
(Date written unknown)
Two genii are there, from thy birth through weary life to guide thee;
Ah, happy when, united both, they stand to aid beside thee?
With gleesome play to cheer the path, the one comes blithe with beauty,
And lighter, leaning on her arm, the destiny and duty.
With jest and sweet discourse she goes unto the rock sublime,
Where halts above the eternal sea the shuddering child of time.
The other here, resolved and mute and solemn, claspeth thee,
And bears thee in her giant arms across the fearful sea.
Never admit the one alone!--Give not the gentle guide
Thy honor--nor unto the stern thy happiness confide!
The world is a beautiful place
to be born into
if you don't mind happiness
not always being
so very much fun
if you don't mind a touch of hell
now and then
just when everything is fine
because even in heaven
they don't sing
all the time
The world is a beautiful place
to be born into
if you don't mind some people dying
all the time
or maybe only starving
some of the time
which isn't half bad
if it isn't you
Oh the world is a beautiful place
to be born into
if you don't much mind
a few dead minds
in the higher places
or a bomb or two
now and then
in your upturned faces
or such other improprieties
as our Name Brand society
is prey to
with its men of distinction
and its men of extinction
and its priests
and other patrolmen
and its various segregations
and congressional investigations
and other constipations
that our fool flesh
is heir to
Yes the world is the best place of all
for a lot of such things as
making the fun scene
and making the love scene
and making the sad scene
and singing low songs and having inspirations
and walking around
looking at everything
and smelling flowers
and goosing statues
and even thinking
and kissing people and
making babies and wearing pants
and waving hats and
dancing
and going swimming in rivers
on picnics
in the middle of the summer
and just generally
'living it up'
Yes
but then right in the middle of it
comes the smiling
mortician
If I am not in your life, do not mind
However, I will come in your dreams every night
Every night I will come and sit, in front of you
Touching you and feeling your soft breaths
Hold your hand and looking into your lake eyes
You are singing and I am listening your sweet voice
My head on your sky laps
You rolling your fingers into my hairs
You dropping your love on me as a rain
Moreover, I play with like a little kid games
And the time is come.......
The moon completed his journey
Stars are going his home
We waked up and came out of the dreams
Here we saw beautiful morning scene
Sun is red and bright birds are singing
Cold polite wind flow, flowers are laughing
Moreover, we both are thinking
About this beautiful dream
Weary not of us, for we are very beautiful; it is out of very jealousy and proper pride that we entered the veil.
On the day when we cast of the body’s veil from the soul, you will see that we are the envy of despair of man and the Polestars.
Wash your face and become clean for beholding us, else remain afar, for we are beloveds of ourselves.
We are not that beauty who tomorrow will become a crone; till eternity we are young and heart-comforting and fair of stature.
If that veil become worn out, the beauty has not grown old; the life of the Veil is transient, and we are boundless life.
When Eblis saw the veil of Adam, he refused; Adam called to him, “You are the rejected one, not I.”
The rest of the angels fell down prostrate, saying as they bowed themselves, “We have encountered a beauty:
“Beneath the veil is an idol who by his qualities robbed us of reason, and we, prostrate, fell.”
If our reason does not know the forms of the foul old men from those of the beauties, we are apostates from love.
What place is there for a beauty? For he is the Lion of God. Like a child we prattled, for we are children of the alphabet.
Children are beguiled with nuts and raisins, else, how are we meet for nuts and sesame-grains?
When an old woman is hidden in helmet and chainmail, she says, “I am the illustrious Rostam of the battle ranks.”
By her boast all know that she is a woman; how should we make a mistake, seeing that we are in the light of Ahmad?
“The believer is discriminating” - so said the Prophet; now close your mouth, for we are guided rightly without speech.
Hear the rest of from Shams the Pride of Tabiz for we did not take the end of the story from that king.
You are beautiful
Your love shines right through me
Every time I hear your name
It makes my cheeks red with shame
You are beautiful
And I love you
Like I love music
But you much more boldly
How about you and I go down to the park?
It makes this love more mysterious and dark
You are beautiful
Your red lips make my cheeks red
Your flowing hair makes mine stand on end
Jealousy, envy, love, and lust
You cannot be more robust
You are beautiful
Now I have described it as best I can
I should be done talking to myself now
And I think I should talk to the beautiful stranger before me
Or maybe the beautiful you is not man but is this-
Poetry
Yes I believe I will go down to the park
So it is mysterious and dark
And write about you Poetry
For I realize that Poetry is far more beautiful than thee
Walk straight into the blissful arms
Of a new day,
Create an invigorating mindset
And devote your dreams
To an exquisite fate.
Be conscientious in following paths
Of illumination and self-realization:
Every moment is the death
Of a disappointing past
With the reassuring promise of rebirth.
Discover the immensity of your self-worth:
Unseen gods and goddesses
Are awaiting your arrival;
Deities in secret galaxies
Offer incense for your survival
And compose verses for your soul’s protection.
We can appreciate the energy in art
and feel strong in the transfusion,
but then time keeps dripping,
the curse of the beauty drinker.
Surrogate life,
virtual, safe, mediocre.
Looking in the usual wrong places,
we´ll never get to know
what we want.
I am able to believe anything,
to deceive myself once more.
Do we need a miracle?
In the meantime,
silently,
the mysterious order of truth
moves forward.
The beauty of a ruin may be best
appreciated by a rank outsider,
observing it as uninvited guest,
without the context of a view that’s wider.
Behind the fallen walls there often lie
sad stories of inhabitants who perished
in homes that once abandoned now supply
the ruins travelers long have cherished.
The pleasure coming from the accidental
beauty, burgeoning till it decays,
appeals to anyone who’s sentimental
when seeing signs of others’ judgment days.
Ah whither, Love, wilt thou now carry me?
What wontless fury dost thou now inspire
Into my feeble breast, too full of thee?
Whilst seeking to aslake thy raging fire,
Thou in me kindlest much more great desire,
And up aloft above my strength dost raise
The wondrous matter of my fire to praise.
That as I erst in praise of thine own name,
So now in honour of thy mother dear,
An honourable hymn I eke should frame,
And with the brightness of her beauty clear,
The ravish'd hearts of gazeful men might rear
To admiration of that heavenly light,
From whence proceeds such soul-enchanting might.
Thereto do thou, great goddess, queen of beauty,
Mother of love, and of all world's delight,
Without whose sovereign grace and kindly duty
Nothing on earth seems fair to fleshly sight,
Do thou vouchsafe with thy love-kindling light
T' illuminate my dim and dulled eyne,
And beautify this sacred hymn of thine:
That both to thee, to whom I mean it most,
And eke to her, whose fair immortal beam
Hath darted fire into my feeble ghost,
That now it wasted is with woes extreme,
It may so please, that she at length will stream
Some dew of grace into my withered heart,
After long sorrow and consuming smart.
WHAT time this world's great Workmaster did cast
To make all things such as we now behold,
It seems that he before his eyes had plac'd
A goodly pattern, to whose perfect mould
He fashion'd them as comely as he could;
That now so fair and seemly they appear,
As nought may be amended anywhere.
That wondrous pattern, wheresoe'er it be,
Whether in earth laid up in secret store,
Or else in heaven, that no man may it see
With sinful eyes, for fear it to deflore,
Is perfect Beauty, which all men adore;
Whose face and feature doth so much excel
All mortal sense, that none the same may tell.
Thereof as every earthly thing partakes
Or more or less, by influence divine,
So it more fair accordingly it makes,
And the gross matter of this earthly mine,
Which clotheth it, thereafter doth refine,
Doing away the dross which dims the light
Of that fair beam which therein is empight.
For, through infusion of celestial power,
The duller earth it quick'neth with delight,
And lifeful spirits privily doth pour
Through all the parts, that to the looker's sight
They seem to please. That is thy sovereign might,
O Cyprian queen, which flowing from the beam
Of thy bright star, thou into them dost stream.
That is the thing which giveth pleasant grace
To all things fair, that kindleth lively fire,
Light of thy lamp, which, shining in the face,
Thence to the soul darts amorous desire,
And robs the hearts of those which it admire;
Therewith thou pointest thy son's poison'd arrow,
That wounds the life, and wastes the inmost marrow.
How vainly then do idle wits invent,
That beauty is nought else but mixture made
Of colours fair, and goodly temp'rament
Of pure complexions, that shall quickly fade
And pass away, like to a summer's shade;
Or that it is but comely composition
Of parts well measur'd, with meet disposition.
Hath white and red in it such wondrous power,
That it can pierce through th' eyes unto the heart,
And therein stir such rage and restless stour,
As nought but death can stint his dolour's smart?
Or can proportion of the outward part
Move such affection in the inward mind,
That it can rob both sense and reason blind?
Why do not then the blossoms of the field,
Which are array'd with much more orient hue,
And to the sense most dainty odours yield,
Work like impression in the looker's view?
Or why do not fair pictures like power shew,
In which oft-times we nature see of art
Excell'd, in perfect limning every part?
But ah, believe me, there is more than so,
That works such wonders in the minds of men;
I, that have often prov'd, too well it know,
And whoso list the like assays to ken,
Shall find by trial, and confess it then,
That beauty is not, as fond men misdeem,
An outward shew of things, that only seem.
For that same goodly hue of white and red,
With which the cheeks are sprinkled, shall decay,
And those sweet rosy leaves, so fairly spread
Upon the lips, shall fade and fall away
To that they were, even to corrupted clay;
That golden wire, those sparkling stars so bright,
Shall turn to dust; and lose their goodly light.
But that fair lamp, from whose celestial ray
That light proceeds, which kindleth lovers' fire,
Shall never be extinguish'd nor decay;
But when the vital spirits do expire,
Unto her native planet shall retire;
For it is heavenly born and cannot die,
Being a parcel of the purest sky.
For when the soul, the which derived was,
At first, out of that great immortal Spright,
By whom all live to love, whilom did pass
Down from the top of purest heaven's height
To be embodied here, it then took light
And lively spirits from that fairest star,
Which lights the world forth from his fiery car.
Which power retaining still or more or less,
When she in fleshly seed is eft enraced,
Through every part she doth the same impress,
According as the heavens have her graced,
And frames her house, in which she will be placed,
Fit for herself, adorning it with spoil
Of th' heavenly riches which she robb'd erewhile.
Thereof it comes that these fair souls, which have
The most resemblance of that heavenly light,
Frame to themselves most beautiful and brave
Their fleshly bower, most fit for their delight,
And the gross matter by a sovereign might
Tempers so trim, that it may well be seen
A palace fit for such a virgin queen.
So every spirit, as it is most pure,
And hath in it the more of heavenly light,
So it the fairer body doth procure
To habit in, and it more fairly dight
With cheerful grace and amiable sight.
For of the soul the body form doth take:
For soul is form, and doth the body make.
Therefore wherever that thou dost behold
A comely corpse, with beauty fair endued,
Know this for certain, that the same doth hold
A beauteous soul, with fair conditions thewed,
Fit to receive the seed of virtue strewed.
For all that fair is, is by nature good;
That is a sign to know the gentle blood.
Yet oft it falls that many a gentle mind
Dwells in deformed tabernacle drown'd,
Either by chance, against the course of kind,
Or through unaptness in the substance found,
Which it assumed of some stubborn ground,
That will not yield unto her form's direction,
But is deform'd with some foul imperfection.
And oft it falls, (ay me, the more to rue)
That goodly beauty, albe heavenly born,
Is foul abus'd, and that celestial hue,
Which doth the world with her delight adorn,
Made but the bait of sin, and sinners' scorn,
Whilst every one doth seek and sue to have it,
But every one doth seek but to deprave it.
Yet nathëmore is that fair beauty's blame,
But theirs that do abuse it unto ill:
Nothing so good, but that through guilty shame
May be corrupt, and wrested unto will:
Natheless the soul is fair and beauteous still,
However flesh{"e}s fault it filthy make;
For things immortal no corruption take.
But ye fair dames, the world's dear ornaments
And lively images of heaven's light,
Let not your beams with such disparagements
Be dimm'd, and your bright glory dark'ned quite;
But mindful still of your first country's sight,
Do still preserve your first informed grace,
Whose shadow yet shines in your beauteous face.
Loathe that foul blot, that hellish firebrand,
Disloyal lust, fair beauty's foulest blame,
That base affections, which your ears would bland,
Commend to you by love's abused name,
But is indeed the bondslave of defame;
Which will the garland of your glory mar,
And quench the light of your bright shining star.
But gentle Love, that loyal is and true,
Will more illumine your resplendent ray,
And add more brightness to your goodly hue,
From light of his pure fire; which, by like way
Kindled of yours, your likeness doth display;
Like as two mirrors, by oppos'd reflection,
Do both express the face's first impression.
Therefore, to make your beauty more appear,
It you behoves to love, and forth to lay
That heavenly riches which in you ye bear,
That men the more admire their fountain may;
For else what booteth that celestial ray,
If it in darkness be enshrined ever,
That it of loving eyes be viewed never?
But, in your choice of loves, this well advise,
That likest to yourselves ye them select,
The which your forms' first source may sympathize,
And with like beauty's parts be inly deckt;
For, if you loosely love without respect,
It is no love, but a discordant war,
Whose unlike parts amongst themselves do jar.
For love is a celestial harmony
Of likely hearts compos'd of stars' concent,
Which join together in sweet sympathy,
To work each other's joy and true content,
Which they have harbour'd since their first descent
Out of their heavenly bowers, where they did see
And know each other here belov'd to be.
Then wrong it were that any other twain
Should in love's gentle band combined be
But those whom Heaven did at first ordain,
And made out of one mould the more t' agree;
For all that like the beauty which they see,
Straight do not love; for love is not so light
As straight to burn at first beholder's sight.
But they, which love indeed, look otherwise,
With pure regard and spotless true intent,
Drawing out of the object of their eyes
A more refined form, which they present
Unto their mind, void of all blemishment;
Which it reducing to her first perfection,
Beholdeth free from flesh's frail infection.
And then conforming it unto the light,
Which in itself it hath remaining still,
Of that first Sun, yet sparkling in his sight,
Thereof he fashions in his higher skill
An heavenly beauty to his fancy's will;
And it embracing in his mind entire,
The mirror of his own thought doth admire.
Which seeing now so inly fair to be,
As outward it appeareth to the eye,
And with his spirit's proportion to agree,
He thereon fixeth all his fantasy,
And fully setteth his felicity;
Counting it fairer than it is indeed,
And yet indeed her fairness doth exceed.
For lovers' eyes more sharply sighted be
Than other men's, and in dear love's delight
See more than any other eyes can see,
Through mutual receipt of beam{"e}s bright,
Which carry privy message to the spright,
And to their eyes that inmost fair display,
As plain as light discovers dawning day.
Therein they see, through amorous eye-glances,
Armies of loves still flying to and fro,
Which dart at them their little fiery lances;
Whom having wounded, back again they go,
Carrying compassion to their lovely foe;
Who, seeing her fair eyes' so sharp effect,
Cures all their sorrows with one sweet aspect.
In which how many wonders do they rede
To their conceit, that others never see,
Now of her smiles, with which their souls they feed,
Like gods with nectar in their banquets free;
Now of her looks, which like to cordials be;
But when her words' embássade forth she sends,
Lord, how sweet music that unto them lends.
Sometimes upon her forehead they behold
A thousand graces masking in delight;
Sometimes within her eyelids they unfold
Ten thousand sweet belgards, which to their sight
Do seem like twinkling stars in frosty night;
But on her lips, like rosy buds in May,
So many millions of chaste pleasures play.
All those, O Cytherea, and thousands more
Thy handmaids be, which do on thee attend,
To deck thy beauty with their dainties' store,
That may it more to mortal eyes commend,
And make it more admir'd of foe and friend:
That in men's hearts thou may'st thy throne install,
And spread thy lovely kingdom over all.
Then Iö, triumph! O great Beauty's Queen,
Advance the banner of thy conquest high,
That all this world, the which thy vassals bene,
May draw to thee, and with due fealty
Adore the power of thy great majesty,
Singing this hymn in honour of thy name,
Compil'd by me, which thy poor liegeman am.
In lieu whereof grant, O great sovereign,
That she whose conquering beauty doth captive
My trembling heart in her eternal chain,
One drop of grace at length will to me give,
That I her bounden thrall by her may live,
And this same life, which first fro me she reaved,
May owe to her, of whom I it received.
And you, fair Venus' darling, my dear dread,
Fresh flower of grace, great goddess of my life,
When your fair eyes these fearful lines shall read,
Deign to let fall one drop of due relief,
That may recure my heart's long pining grief,
And shew what wondrous power your beauty hath,
That can restore a damned wight from death.
Rapt with the rage of mine own ravish'd thought,
Through contemplation of those goodly sights,
And glorious images in heaven wrought,
Whose wondrous beauty, breathing sweet delights
Do kindle love in high-conceited sprights;
I fain to tell the things that I behold,
But feel my wits to fail, and tongue to fold.
Vouchsafe then, O thou most Almighty Spright,
From whom all gifts of wit and knowledge flow,
To shed into my breast some sparkling light
Of thine eternal truth, that I may show
Some little beams to mortal eyes below
Of that immortal beauty, there with thee,
Which in my weak distraughted mind I see;
That with the glory of so goodly sight
The hearts of men, which fondly here admire
Fair seeming shews, and feed on vain delight,
Transported with celestial desire
Of those fair forms, may lift themselves up higher,
And learn to love, with zealous humble duty,
Th' eternal fountain of that heavenly beauty.
Beginning then below, with th' easy view
Of this base world, subject to fleshly eye,
From thence to mount aloft, by order due,
To contemplation of th' immortal sky;
Of the soare falcon so I learn to fly,
That flags awhile her fluttering wings beneath,
Till she herself for stronger flight can breathe.
Then look, who list thy gazeful eyes to feed
With sight of that is fair, look on the frame
Of this wide universe, and therein reed
The endless kinds of creatures which by name
Thou canst not count, much less their natures aim;
All which are made with wondrous wise respect,
And all with admirable beauty deckt.
First th' earth, on adamantine pillars founded,
Amid the sea engirt with brazen bands;
Then th' air still flitting, but yet firmly bounded
On every side, with piles of flaming brands,
Never consum'd, nor quench'd with mortal hands;
And last, that mighty shining crystal wall,
Wherewith he hath encompassed this All.
By view whereof it plainly may appear,
That still as every thing doth upward tend,
And further is from earth, so still more clear
And fair it grows, till to his perfect end
Of purest beauty it at last ascend;
Air more than water, fire much more than air,
And heaven than fire, appears more pure and fair.
Look thou no further, but affix thine eye
On that bright, shiny, round, still moving mass,
The house of blessed gods, which men call sky,
All sow'd with glist'ring stars more thick than grass,
Whereof each other doth in brightness pass,
But those two most, which ruling night and day,
As king and queen, the heavens' empire sway;
And tell me then, what hast thou ever seen
That to their beauty may compared be,
Or can the sight that is most sharp and keen
Endure their captain's flaming head to see?
How much less those, much higher in degree,
And so much fairer, and much more than these,
As these are fairer than the land and seas?
For far above these heavens, which here we see,
Be others far exceeding these in light,
Not bounded, not corrupt, as these same be,
But infinite in largeness and in height,
Unmoving, uncorrupt, and spotless bright,
That need no sun t' illuminate their spheres,
But their own native light far passing theirs.
And as these heavens still by degrees arise,
Until they come to their first Mover's bound,
That in his mighty compass doth comprise,
And carry all the rest with him around;
So those likewise do by degrees redound,
And rise more fair; till they at last arrive
To the most fair, whereto they all do strive.
Fair is the heaven where happy souls have place,
In full enjoyment of felicity,
Whence they do still behold the glorious face
Of the divine eternal Majesty;
More fair is that, where those Ideas on high
Enranged be, which Plato so admired,
And pure Intelligences from God inspired.
Yet fairer is that heaven, in which do reign
The sovereign Powers and mighty Potentates,
Which in their high protections do contain
All mortal princes and imperial states;
And fairer yet, whereas the royal Seats
And heavenly Dominations are set,
From whom all earthly governance is fet.
Yet far more fair be those bright Cherubins,
Which all with golden wings are overdight,
And those eternal burning Seraphins,
Which from their faces dart out fiery light;
Yet fairer than they both, and much more bright,
Be th' Angels and Archangels, which attend
On God's own person, without rest or end.
These thus in fair each other far excelling,
As to the highest they approach more near,
Yet is that highest far beyond all telling,
Fairer than all the rest which there appear,
Though all their beauties join'd together were;
How then can mortal tongue hope to express
The image of such endless perfectness?
Cease then, my tongue, and lend unto my mind
Leave to bethink how great that beauty is,
Whose utmost parts so beautiful I find;
How much more those essential parts of his,
His truth, his love, his wisdom, and his bliss,
His grace, his doom, his mercy, and his might,
By which he lends us of himself a sight.
Those unto all he daily doth display,
And shew himself in th' image of his grace,
As in a looking-glass, through which he may
Be seen of all his creatures vile and base,
That are unable else to see his face,
His glorious face which glistereth else so bright,
That th' Angels selves cannot endure his sight.
But we, frail wights, whose sight cannot sustain
The sun's bright beams when he on us doth shine,
But that their points rebutted back again
Are dull'd, how can we see with feeble eyne
The glory of that Majesty Divine,
In sight of whom both sun and moon are dark,
Compared to his least resplendent spark?
The means, therefore, which unto us is lent
Him to behold, is on his works to look,
Which he hath made in beauty excellent,
And in the same, as in a brazen book,
To read enregister'd in every nook
His goodness, which his beauty doth declare;
For all that's good is beautiful and fair.
Thence gathering plumes of perfect speculation,
To imp the wings of thy high-flying mind,
Mount up aloft through heavenly contemplation,
From this dark world, whose damps the soul so blind,
And, like the native brood of eagles' kind,
On that bright Sun of Glory fix thine eyes,
Clear'd from gross mists of frail infirmities.
Humbled with fear and awful reverence,
Before the footstool of his majesty
Throw thyself down, with trembling innocence,
Ne dare look up with corruptible eye
On the dread face of that great Deity,
For fear, lest if he chance to look on thee,
Thou turn to nought, and quite confounded be.
But lowly fall before his mercy seat,
Close covered with the Lamb's integrity
From the just wrath of his avengeful threat
That sits upon the righteous throne on high;
His throne is built upon eternity,
More firm and durable than steel or brass,
Or the hard diamond, which them both doth pass.
His sceptre is the rod of righteousness,
With which he bruiseth all his foes to dust,
And the great Dragon strongly doth repress,
Under the rigour of his judgement just;
His seat is truth, to which the faithful trust,
From whence proceed her beams so pure and bright
That all about him sheddeth glorious light:
Light far exceeding that bright blazing spark
Which darted is from Titan's flaming head,
That with his beams enlumineth the dark
And dampish air, whereby all things are read;
Whose nature yet so much is marvelled
Of mortal wits, that it doth much amaze
The greatest wizards which thereon do gaze.
But that immortal light, which there doth shine,
Is many thousand times more bright, more clear,
More excellent, more glorious, more divine,
Through which to God all mortal actions here,
And even the thoughts of men, do plain appear;
For from th' eternal truth it doth proceed,
Through heavenly virtue which her beams do breed.
With the great glory of that wondrous light
His throne is all encompassed around,
And hid in his own brightness from the sight
Of all that look thereon with eyes unsound;
And underneath his feet are to be found
Thunder and lightning and tempestuous fire,
The instruments of his avenging ire.
There in his bosom Sapience doth sit,
The sovereign darling of the Deity,
Clad like a queen in royal robes, most fit
For so great power and peerless majesty,
And all with gems and jewels gorgeously
Adorn'd, that brighter than the stars appear,
And make her native brightness seem more clear.
And on her head a crown of purest gold
Is set, in sign of highest sovereignty;
And in her hand a sceptre she doth hold,
With which she rules the house of God on high,
And manageth the ever-moving sky,
And in the same these lower creatures all
Subjected to her power imperial.
Both heaven and earth obey unto her will,
And all the creatures which they both contain;
For of her fullness which the world doth fill
They all partake, and do in state remain
As their great Maker did at first ordain,
Through observation of her high behest,
By which they first were made, and still increast.
The fairness of her face no tongue can tell;
For she the daughters of all women's race,
And angels eke, in beauty doth excel,
Sparkled on her from God's own glorious face,
And more increas'd by her own goodly grace,
That it doth far exceed all human thought,
Ne can on earth compared be to aught.
Ne could that painter (had he lived yet)
Which pictured Venus with so curious quill,
That all posterity admired it,
Have portray'd this, for all his mast'ring skill;
Ne she herself, had she remained still,
And were as fair as fabling wits do feign,
Could once come near this beauty sovereign.
But had those wits, the wonders of their days,
Or that sweet Teian poet, which did spend
His plenteous vein in setting forth her praise,
Seen but a glimpse of this which I pretend,
How wondrously would he her face commend,
Above that idol of his feigning thought,
That all the world should with his rhymes be fraught.
How then dare I, the novice of his art,
Presume to picture so divine a wight,
Or hope t' express her least perfection's part,
Whose beauty fills the heavens with her light,
And darks the earth with shadow of her sight?
Ah, gentle Muse, thou art too weak and faint
The portrait of so heavenly hue to paint.
Let angels, which her goodly face behold
And see at will, her sovereign praises sing,
And those most sacred mysteries unfold
Of that fair love of mighty heaven's King;
Enough is me t' admire so heavenly thing,
And being thus with her huge love possest,
In th' only wonder of herself to rest.
But whoso may, thrice happy man him hold,
Of all on earth whom God so much doth grace
And lets his own beloved to behold;
For in the view of her celestial face
All joy, all bliss, all happiness, have place;
Ne aught on earth can want unto the wight
Who of herself can win the wishful sight.
For she, out of her secret treasury,
Plenty of riches forth on him will pour,
Even heavenly riches, which there hidden lie
Within the closet of her chastest bower,
Th' eternal portion of her precious dower,
Which mighty God hath given to her free,
And to all those which thereof worthy be.
None thereof worthy be, but those whom she
Vouchsafeth to her presence to receive,
And letteth them her lovely face to see,
Whereof such wondrous pleasures they conceive,
And sweet contentment, that it doth bereave
Their soul of sense, through infinite delight,
And them transport from flesh into the spright.
In which they see such admirable things,
As carries them into an ecstasy,
And hear such heavenly notes, and carollings
Of God's high praise, that fills the brazen sky;
And feel such joy and pleasure inwardly,
That maketh them all worldly cares forget,
And only think on that before them set.
Ne from thenceforth doth any fleshly sense,
Or idle thought of earthly things, remain;
But all that erst seem'd sweet seems now offence,
And all that pleased erst now seems to pain;
Their joy, their comfort, their desire, their gain,
Is fixed all on that which now they see;
All other sights but feigned shadows be.
And that fair lamp, which useth to inflame
The hearts of men with self-consuming fire
Thenceforth seems foul, and full of sinful blame;
And all that pomp to which proud minds aspire
By name of honour, and so much desire,
Seems to them baseness, and all riches dross,
And all mirth sadness, and all lucre loss.
So full their eyes are of that glorious sight,
And senses fraught with such satiety,
That in nought else on earth they can delight,
But in th' aspect of that felicity,
Which they have written in their inward eye;
On which they feed, and in their fastened mind
All happy joy and full contentment find.
Ah, then, my hungry soul, which long hast fed
On idle fancies of thy foolish thought,
And, with false beauty's flatt'ring bait misled,
Hast after vain deceitful shadows sought,
Which all are fled, and now have left thee nought
But late repentance through thy follies prief;
Ah cease to gaze on matter of thy grief:
And look at last up to that sovereign light,
From whose pure beams all perfect beauty springs,
That kindleth love in every godly sprite,
Even the love of God, which loathing brings
Of this vile world and these gay-seeming things;
With whose sweet pleasures being so possest,
Thy straying thoughts henceforth for ever rest.
For Ann London
As you described your mastectomy in calm detail
and bared your chest so I might see
the puckered scar,
"They took a hatchet to your breast!" I said. "What an
Amazon you are."
When we were girls we climbed Mt. Tamalpais
chewing bay leaves we had plucked
along the way;
we got high all right, from animal pleasure in each other,
shouting to the sky.
On your houseboat we tried to ignore the impossible guy
you had married to enrage your family,
a typical ploy.
We were great fools let loose in the No Name bar
on Sausalito's bay.
In San Francisco we'd perch on a waterfront pier
chewing sourdough and cheese, swilling champagne,
kicking our heels;
crooning lewd songs, hooting like seagulls,
we bayed with the seals.
Then you married someone in Mexico,
broke up in two weeks, didn't bother to divorce,
claimed it didn't count.
You dumped number three, fled to Albany
to become a pedant.
Averse to domesticity, you read for your Ph.D.
Your four-year-old looked like a miniature
John Lennon.
You fed him peanut butter from your jar and raised him
on Beowulf and Grendal.
Much later in New York we reunited;
in an elevator at Sak's a woman asked for
your autograph.
You glowed like a star, like Anouk Aimee
at forty, close enough.
Your pedantry found its place in the Women's Movement.
You rose fast, seen suddenly as the morning star;
wrote the ERA
found the right man at last, a sensitive artist;
flying too high
not to crash. When the cancer caught you
you went on talk shows to say you had no fear
or faith.
In Baltimore we joked on your bed as you turned into
a witty wraith.
When you died I cleaned out your bureau drawers:
your usual disorder; an assortment of gorgeous wigs
and prosthetic breasts
tossed in garbage bags, to spare your gentle spouse.
Then the bequests
you had made to every friend you had!
For each of us a necklace or a ring.
A snapshot for me:
We two, barefoot in chiffon, laughing amid blossoms
your last wedding day.
The perfect American Beauty Rose,
is it diminished
by the slag heaps on Rt. 11, just west
of Scranton, or by the dark cloud
that seems to have settled an inch or so
beneath the surface of Lake Naomi,
or even the swell of soot that hangs
like a troubling thought over the town
on the other side of the river?
Is the rose there any less beautiful?
Or this woman here; right now
she is standing in the impatient way
women have, a hip thrust out,
a shoulder let low?  She is casual
this Sunday morning, in jeans
and a simple top, and she stands
at the top of the hill holding a cigarette
and a leash, waiting for her dog to return.
You'll have to take my word for this:
she is as lovely as any rose
you'll ever find on those long walks you take
into the mountains, and nothing about her
is diminished by the bombs that are falling
this very moment on Afghanistan, the lies
packed tight and neat into cartons
and stacked with the rest in basements,
warehouses and storage rentals
throughout Washington, the three point shot
dropping like a rock short of the basket
in the final seconds of an important moment
in someone's life.  In fact, it is just the opposite:
the grays around us fade—not reduced, no,
nor chased away—but lost to the flush
beauty of the red rose, of the women,
in a moment appreciated.
Anonymous submission.
The sovereign beauty which I do admire,
Witness the world how worthy to be praised:
The light whereof hath kindled heavenly fire
In my frail spirit, by her from baseness raised;
That being now with her huge brightness dazed,
Base thing I can no more endure to view;
But looking still on her, I stand amazed
At wondrous sight of so celestial hue.
So when my tongue would speak her praises due,
It stopped is with thought's astonishment:
And when my pen would write her titles true,
It ravish'd is with fancy's wonderment:
Yet in my heart I then both speak and write
The wonder that my wit cannot endite.
In vain, poor Nymph, to please our youthful sight
You sleep in cream and frontlets all the night,
Your face with patches soil, with paint repair,
Dress with gay gowns, and shade with foreign hair.
If truth in spight of manners must be told,
Why, really fifty-five is something old.
Once you were young; or one, whose life's so long
She might have born my mother, tells me wrong.
And once (since Envy's dead before you die,)
The women own, you play'd a sparkling eye,
Taught the light foot a modish little trip,
And pouted with the prettiest purple lip --
To some new charmer are the roses fled,
Which blew, to damask all thy cheek with red;
Youth calls the Graces there to fix their reign,
And airs by thousands fill their easy train.
So parting Summer bids her flow'ry prime
Attend the sun to dress some foreign clime,
While with'ring seasons in succession, here,
Strip the gay gardens, and deform the year.
But thou (since Nature bids) the world resign,
'Tis now thy daughter's daughter's time to shine.
With more address, (or such as pleases more)
She runs her female exercises o'er,
Unfurls or closes, raps or turns the Fan,
And smiles, or blushes at the creature Man.
With quicker life, as guilded coaches pass,
In sideling courtesy she drops the glass.
With better strength, on visit-days she bears
To mount her fifty flights of ample stairs.
Her mein, her shape, her temper, eyes and tongue
Are sure to conquer. -- for the rogue is young;
And all that's madly wild, or oddly gay,
We call it only pretty Fanny's way.
Let time that makes you homely, make you sage,
The sphere of wisdom is the sphere of age.
'Tis true, when beauty dawns with early fire,
And hears the flatt'ring tongues of soft desire,
If not from virtue, from its gravest ways
The soul with pleasing avocation strays.
But beauty gone, 'tis easier to be wise;
As harper better, by the loss of eyes.
Henceforth retire, reduce your roving airs,
Haunt less the plays, and more the publick pray'rs,
Reject the Mechlin Head, and gold brocade,
Go pray, in sober Norwich Crape array'd.
Thy pendent diamonds let thy Fanny take,
(Their trembling lustre shows how much you shake;)
Or bid her wear thy necklace row'd with pearl,
You'll find your Fanny an obedient girl.
So for the rest, with less incumbrance hung,
You walk thro' life, unmingled with the young;
And view the shade and substance as you pass
With joint endeavour trifling at the glass,
Or Folly drest, and rambling all her days,
To meet her counterpart, and grow by praise:
Yet still sedate your self, and gravely plain,
You neither fret, nor envy at the vain.
'Twas thus (if Man with Woman we compare)
The wise Athenian crost a glittering fair,
Unmov'd by tongues and sights, he walk'd the place,
Thro' tape, toys, tinsel, gimp, perfume, and lace;
Then bends from Mars's Hill his awful eyes,
And "What a world I never want?" he cries;
But cries unheard: For Folly will be free.
So parts the buzzing gaudy crowd, and he:
As careless he for them, as they for him;
He wrapt in wisdom, and they whirl'd by whim.
AH whither, Love, wilt thou now carry me?
What wontless fury dost thou now inspire
Into my feeble breast, too full of thee?
Whilst seeking to aslake thy raging fire,
Thou in me kindlest much more great desire,
And up aloft above my strength dost raise
The wondrous matter of my fire to praise.
That as I erst in praise of thine own name,
So now in honour of thy mother dear,
An honourable hymn I eke should frame,
And with the brightness of her beauty clear,
The ravish'd hearts of gazeful men might rear
To admiration of that heavenly light,
From whence proceeds such soul-enchanting might.
Thereto do thou, great goddess, queen of beauty,
Mother of love, and of all world's delight,
Without whose sovereign grace and kindly duty
Nothing on earth seems fair to fleshly sight,
Do thou vouchsafe with thy love-kindling light
T' illuminate my dim and dulled eyne,
And beautify this sacred hymn of thine:
That both to thee, to whom I mean it most,
And eke to her, whose fair immortal beam
Hath darted fire into my feeble ghost,
That now it wasted is with woes extreme,
It may so please, that she at length will stream
Some dew of grace into my withered heart,
After long sorrow and consuming smart.
WHAT time this world's great Workmaster did cast
To make all things such as we now behold,
It seems that he before his eyes had plac'd
A goodly pattern, to whose perfect mould
He fashion'd them as comely as he could;
That now so fair and seemly they appear,
As nought may be amended anywhere.
That wondrous pattern, wheresoe'er it be,
Whether in earth laid up in secret store,
Or else in heaven, that no man may it see
With sinful eyes, for fear it to deflore,
Is perfect Beauty, which all men adore;
Whose face and feature doth so much excel
All mortal sense, that none the same may tell.
Thereof as every earthly thing partakes
Or more or less, by influence divine,
So it more fair accordingly it makes,
And the gross matter of this earthly mine,
Which clotheth it, thereafter doth refine,
Doing away the dross which dims the light
Of that fair beam which therein is empight.
For, through infusion of celestial power,
The duller earth it quick'neth with delight,
And lifeful spirits privily doth pour
Through all the parts, that to the looker's sight
They seem to please. That is thy sovereign might,
O Cyprian queen, which flowing from the beam
Of thy bright star, thou into them dost stream.
That is the thing which giveth pleasant grace
To all things fair, that kindleth lively fire,
Light of thy lamp, which, shining in the face,
Thence to the soul darts amorous desire,
And robs the hearts of those which it admire;
Therewith thou pointest thy son's poison'd arrow,
That wounds the life, and wastes the inmost marrow.
How vainly then do idle wits invent,
That beauty is nought else but mixture made
Of colours fair, and goodly temp'rament
Of pure complexions, that shall quickly fade
And pass away, like to a summer's shade;
Or that it is but comely composition
Of parts well measur'd, with meet disposition.
Hath white and red in it such wondrous power,
That it can pierce through th' eyes unto the heart,
And therein stir such rage and restless stour,
As nought but death can stint his dolour's smart?
Or can proportion of the outward part
Move such affection in the inward mind,
That it can rob both sense and reason blind?
Why do not then the blossoms of the field,
Which are array'd with much more orient hue,
And to the sense most dainty odours yield,
Work like impression in the looker's view?
Or why do not fair pictures like power shew,
In which oft-times we nature see of art
Excell'd, in perfect limning every part?
But ah, believe me, there is more than so,
That works such wonders in the minds of men;
I, that have often prov'd, too well it know,
And whoso list the like assays to ken,
Shall find by trial, and confess it then,
That beauty is not, as fond men misdeem,
An outward shew of things, that only seem.
For that same goodly hue of white and red,
With which the cheeks are sprinkled, shall decay,
And those sweet rosy leaves, so fairly spread
Upon the lips, shall fade and fall away
To that they were, even to corrupted clay;
That golden wire, those sparkling stars so bright,
Shall turn to dust; and lose their goodly light.
But that fair lamp, from whose celestial ray
That light proceeds, which kindleth lovers' fire,
Shall never be extinguish'd nor decay;
But when the vital spirits do expire,
Unto her native planet shall retire;
For it is heavenly born and cannot die,
Being a parcel of the purest sky.
For when the soul, the which derived was,
At first, out of that great immortal Spright,
By whom all live to love, whilom did pass
Down from the top of purest heaven's height
To be embodied here, it then took light
And lively spirits from that fairest star,
Which lights the world forth from his fiery car.
Which power retaining still or more or less,
When she in fleshly seed is eft enraced,
Through every part she doth the same impress,
According as the heavens have her graced,
And frames her house, in which she will be placed,
Fit for herself, adorning it with spoil
Of th' heavenly riches which she robb'd erewhile.
Thereof it comes that these fair souls, which have
The most resemblance of that heavenly light,
Frame to themselves most beautiful and brave
Their fleshly bower, most fit for their delight,
And the gross matter by a sovereign might
Tempers so trim, that it may well be seen
A palace fit for such a virgin queen.
So every spirit, as it is most pure,
And hath in it the more of heavenly light,
So it the fairer body doth procure
To habit in, and it more fairly dight
With cheerful grace and amiable sight.
For of the soul the body form doth take:
For soul is form, and doth the body make.
Therefore wherever that thou dost behold
A comely corpse, with beauty fair endued,
Know this for certain, that the same doth hold
A beauteous soul, with fair conditions thewed,
Fit to receive the seed of virtue strewed.
For all that fair is, is by nature good;
That is a sign to know the gentle blood.
Yet oft it falls that many a gentle mind
Dwells in deformed tabernacle drown'd,
Either by chance, against the course of kind,
Or through unaptness in the substance found,
Which it assumed of some stubborn ground,
That will not yield unto her form's direction,
But is deform'd with some foul imperfection.
And oft it falls, (ay me, the more to rue)
That goodly beauty, albe heavenly born,
Is foul abus'd, and that celestial hue,
Which doth the world with her delight adorn,
Made but the bait of sin, and sinners' scorn,
Whilst every one doth seek and sue to have it,
But every one doth seek but to deprave it.
Yet nathëmore is that fair beauty's blame,
But theirs that do abuse it unto ill:
Nothing so good, but that through guilty shame
May be corrupt, and wrested unto will:
Natheless the soul is fair and beauteous still,
However flesh{"e}s fault it filthy make;
For things immortal no corruption take.
But ye fair dames, the world's dear ornaments
And lively images of heaven's light,
Let not your beams with such disparagements
Be dimm'd, and your bright glory dark'ned quite;
But mindful still of your first country's sight,
Do still preserve your first informed grace,
Whose shadow yet shines in your beauteous face.
Loathe that foul blot, that hellish firebrand,
Disloyal lust, fair beauty's foulest blame,
That base affections, which your ears would bland,
Commend to you by love's abused name,
But is indeed the bondslave of defame;
Which will the garland of your glory mar,
And quench the light of your bright shining star.
But gentle Love, that loyal is and true,
Will more illumine your resplendent ray,
And add more brightness to your goodly hue,
From light of his pure fire; which, by like way
Kindled of yours, your likeness doth display;
Like as two mirrors, by oppos'd reflection,
Do both express the face's first impression.
Therefore, to make your beauty more appear,
It you behoves to love, and forth to lay
That heavenly riches which in you ye bear,
That men the more admire their fountain may;
For else what booteth that celestial ray,
If it in darkness be enshrined ever,
That it of loving eyes be viewed never?
But, in your choice of loves, this well advise,
That likest to yourselves ye them select,
The which your forms' first source may sympathize,
And with like beauty's parts be inly deckt;
For, if you loosely love without respect,
It is no love, but a discordant war,
Whose unlike parts amongst themselves do jar.
For love is a celestial harmony
Of likely hearts compos'd of stars' concent,
Which join together in sweet sympathy,
To work each other's joy and true content,
Which they have harbour'd since their first descent
Out of their heavenly bowers, where they did see
And know each other here belov'd to be.
Then wrong it were that any other twain
Should in love's gentle band combined be
But those whom Heaven did at first ordain,
And made out of one mould the more t' agree;
For all that like the beauty which they see,
Straight do not love; for love is not so light
As straight to burn at first beholder's sight.
But they, which love indeed, look otherwise,
With pure regard and spotless true intent,
Drawing out of the object of their eyes
A more refined form, which they present
Unto their mind, void of all blemishment;
Which it reducing to her first perfection,
Beholdeth free from flesh's frail infection.
And then conforming it unto the light,
Which in itself it hath remaining still,
Of that first Sun, yet sparkling in his sight,
Thereof he fashions in his higher skill
An heavenly beauty to his fancy's will;
And it embracing in his mind entire,
The mirror of his own thought doth admire.
Which seeing now so inly fair to be,
As outward it appeareth to the eye,
And with his spirit's proportion to agree,
He thereon fixeth all his fantasy,
And fully setteth his felicity;
Counting it fairer than it is indeed,
And yet indeed her fairness doth exceed.
For lovers' eyes more sharply sighted be
Than other men's, and in dear love's delight
See more than any other eyes can see,
Through mutual receipt of beam{"e}s bright,
Which carry privy message to the spright,
And to their eyes that inmost fair display,
As plain as light discovers dawning day.
Therein they see, through amorous eye-glances,
Armies of loves still flying to and fro,
Which dart at them their little fiery lances;
Whom having wounded, back again they go,
Carrying compassion to their lovely foe;
Who, seeing her fair eyes' so sharp effect,
Cures all their sorrows with one sweet aspect.
In which how many wonders do they rede
To their conceit, that others never see,
Now of her smiles, with which their souls they feed,
Like gods with nectar in their banquets free;
Now of her looks, which like to cordials be;
But when her words' embássade forth she sends,
Lord, how sweet music that unto them lends.
Sometimes upon her forehead they behold
A thousand graces masking in delight;
Sometimes within her eyelids they unfold
Ten thousand sweet belgards, which to their sight
Do seem like twinkling stars in frosty night;
But on her lips, like rosy buds in May,
So many millions of chaste pleasures play.
All those, O Cytherea, and thousands more
Thy handmaids be, which do on thee attend,
To deck thy beauty with their dainties' store,
That may it more to mortal eyes commend,
And make it more admir'd of foe and friend:
That in men's hearts thou may'st thy throne install,
And spread thy lovely kingdom over all.
Then Iö, triumph! O great Beauty's Queen,
Advance the banner of thy conquest high,
That all this world, the which thy vassals bene,
May draw to thee, and with due fealty
Adore the power of thy great majesty,
Singing this hymn in honour of thy name,
Compil'd by me, which thy poor liegeman am.
In lieu whereof grant, O great sovereign,
That she whose conquering beauty doth captive
My trembling heart in her eternal chain,
One drop of grace at length will to me give,
That I her bounden thrall by her may live,
And this same life, which first fro me she reaved,
May owe to her, of whom I it received.
And you, fair Venus' darling, my dear dread,
Fresh flower of grace, great goddess of my life,
When your fair eyes these fearful lines shall read,
Deign to let fall one drop of due relief,
That may recure my heart's long pining grief,
And shew what wondrous power your beauty hath,
That can restore a damned wight from death.
Rapt with the rage of mine own ravish'd thought,
Through contemplation of those goodly sights,
And glorious images in heaven wrought,
Whose wondrous beauty, breathing sweet delights
Do kindle love in high-conceited sprights;
I fain to tell the things that I behold,
But feel my wits to fail, and tongue to fold.
Vouchsafe then, O thou most Almighty Spright,
From whom all gifts of wit and knowledge flow,
To shed into my breast some sparkling light
Of thine eternal truth, that I may show
Some little beams to mortal eyes below
Of that immortal beauty, there with thee,
Which in my weak distraughted mind I see;
That with the glory of so goodly sight
The hearts of men, which fondly here admire
Fair seeming shews, and feed on vain delight,
Transported with celestial desire
Of those fair forms, may lift themselves up higher,
And learn to love, with zealous humble duty,
Th' eternal fountain of that heavenly beauty.
Beginning then below, with th' easy view
Of this base world, subject to fleshly eye,
From thence to mount aloft, by order due,
To contemplation of th' immortal sky;
Of the soare falcon so I learn to fly,
That flags awhile her fluttering wings beneath,
Till she herself for stronger flight can breathe.
Then look, who list thy gazeful eyes to feed
With sight of that is fair, look on the frame
Of this wide universe, and therein reed
The endless kinds of creatures which by name
Thou canst not count, much less their natures aim;
All which are made with wondrous wise respect,
And all with admirable beauty deckt.
First th' earth, on adamantine pillars founded,
Amid the sea engirt with brazen bands;
Then th' air still flitting, but yet firmly bounded
On every side, with piles of flaming brands,
Never consum'd, nor quench'd with mortal hands;
And last, that mighty shining crystal wall,
Wherewith he hath encompassed this All.
By view whereof it plainly may appear,
That still as every thing doth upward tend,
And further is from earth, so still more clear
And fair it grows, till to his perfect end
Of purest beauty it at last ascend;
Air more than water, fire much more than air,
And heaven than fire, appears more pure and fair.
Look thou no further, but affix thine eye
On that bright, shiny, round, still moving mass,
The house of blessed gods, which men call sky,
All sow'd with glist'ring stars more thick than grass,
Whereof each other doth in brightness pass,
But those two most, which ruling night and day,
As king and queen, the heavens' empire sway;
And tell me then, what hast thou ever seen
That to their beauty may compared be,
Or can the sight that is most sharp and keen
Endure their captain's flaming head to see?
How much less those, much higher in degree,
And so much fairer, and much more than these,
As these are fairer than the land and seas?
For far above these heavens, which here we see,
Be others far exceeding these in light,
Not bounded, not corrupt, as these same be,
But infinite in largeness and in height,
Unmoving, uncorrupt, and spotless bright,
That need no sun t' illuminate their spheres,
But their own native light far passing theirs.
And as these heavens still by degrees arise,
Until they come to their first Mover's bound,
That in his mighty compass doth comprise,
And carry all the rest with him around;
So those likewise do by degrees redound,
And rise more fair; till they at last arrive
To the most fair, whereto they all do strive.
Fair is the heaven where happy souls have place,
In full enjoyment of felicity,
Whence they do still behold the glorious face
Of the divine eternal Majesty;
More fair is that, where those Ideas on high
Enranged be, which Plato so admired,
And pure Intelligences from God inspired.
Yet fairer is that heaven, in which do reign
The sovereign Powers and mighty Potentates,
Which in their high protections do contain
All mortal princes and imperial states;
And fairer yet, whereas the royal Seats
And heavenly Dominations are set,
From whom all earthly governance is fet.
Yet far more fair be those bright Cherubins,
Which all with golden wings are overdight,
And those eternal burning Seraphins,
Which from their faces dart out fiery light;
Yet fairer than they both, and much more bright,
Be th' Angels and Archangels, which attend
On God's own person, without rest or end.
These thus in fair each other far excelling,
As to the highest they approach more near,
Yet is that highest far beyond all telling,
Fairer than all the rest which there appear,
Though all their beauties join'd together were;
How then can mortal tongue hope to express
The image of such endless perfectness?
Cease then, my tongue, and lend unto my mind
Leave to bethink how great that beauty is,
Whose utmost parts so beautiful I find;
How much more those essential parts of his,
His truth, his love, his wisdom, and his bliss,
His grace, his doom, his mercy, and his might,
By which he lends us of himself a sight.
Those unto all he daily doth display,
And shew himself in th' image of his grace,
As in a looking-glass, through which he may
Be seen of all his creatures vile and base,
That are unable else to see his face,
His glorious face which glistereth else so bright,
That th' Angels selves cannot endure his sight.
But we, frail wights, whose sight cannot sustain
The sun's bright beams when he on us doth shine,
But that their points rebutted back again
Are dull'd, how can we see with feeble eyne
The glory of that Majesty Divine,
In sight of whom both sun and moon are dark,
Compared to his least resplendent spark?
The means, therefore, which unto us is lent
Him to behold, is on his works to look,
Which he hath made in beauty excellent,
And in the same, as in a brazen book,
To read enregister'd in every nook
His goodness, which his beauty doth declare;
For all that's good is beautiful and fair.
Thence gathering plumes of perfect speculation,
To imp the wings of thy high-flying mind,
Mount up aloft through heavenly contemplation,
From this dark world, whose damps the soul so blind,
And, like the native brood of eagles' kind,
On that bright Sun of Glory fix thine eyes,
Clear'd from gross mists of frail infirmities.
Humbled with fear and awful reverence,
Before the footstool of his majesty
Throw thyself down, with trembling innocence,
Ne dare look up with corruptible eye
On the dread face of that great Deity,
For fear, lest if he chance to look on thee,
Thou turn to nought, and quite confounded be.
But lowly fall before his mercy seat,
Close covered with the Lamb's integrity
From the just wrath of his avengeful threat
That sits upon the righteous throne on high;
His throne is built upon eternity,
More firm and durable than steel or brass,
Or the hard diamond, which them both doth pass.
His sceptre is the rod of righteousness,
With which he bruiseth all his foes to dust,
And the great Dragon strongly doth repress,
Under the rigour of his judgement just;
His seat is truth, to which the faithful trust,
From whence proceed her beams so pure and bright
That all about him sheddeth glorious light:
Light far exceeding that bright blazing spark
Which darted is from Titan's flaming head,
That with his beams enlumineth the dark
And dampish air, whereby all things are read;
Whose nature yet so much is marvelled
Of mortal wits, that it doth much amaze
The greatest wizards which thereon do gaze.
But that immortal light, which there doth shine,
Is many thousand times more bright, more clear,
More excellent, more glorious, more divine,
Through which to God all mortal actions here,
And even the thoughts of men, do plain appear;
For from th' eternal truth it doth proceed,
Through heavenly virtue which her beams do breed.
With the great glory of that wondrous light
His throne is all encompassed around,
And hid in his own brightness from the sight
Of all that look thereon with eyes unsound;
And underneath his feet are to be found
Thunder and lightning and tempestuous fire,
The instruments of his avenging ire.
There in his bosom Sapience doth sit,
The sovereign darling of the Deity,
Clad like a queen in royal robes, most fit
For so great power and peerless majesty,
And all with gems and jewels gorgeously
Adorn'd, that brighter than the stars appear,
And make her native brightness seem more clear.
And on her head a crown of purest gold
Is set, in sign of highest sovereignty;
And in her hand a sceptre she doth hold,
With which she rules the house of God on high,
And manageth the ever-moving sky,
And in the same these lower creatures all
Subjected to her power imperial.
Both heaven and earth obey unto her will,
And all the creatures which they both contain;
For of her fullness which the world doth fill
They all partake, and do in state remain
As their great Maker did at first ordain,
Through observation of her high behest,
By which they first were made, and still increast.
The fairness of her face no tongue can tell;
For she the daughters of all women's race,
And angels eke, in beauty doth excel,
Sparkled on her from God's own glorious face,
And more increas'd by her own goodly grace,
That it doth far exceed all human thought,
Ne can on earth compared be to aught.
Ne could that painter (had he lived yet)
Which pictured Venus with so curious quill,
That all posterity admired it,
Have portray'd this, for all his mast'ring skill;
Ne she herself, had she remained still,
And were as fair as fabling wits do feign,
Could once come near this beauty sovereign.
But had those wits, the wonders of their days,
Or that sweet Teian poet, which did spend
His plenteous vein in setting forth her praise,
Seen but a glimpse of this which I pretend,
How wondrously would he her face commend,
Above that idol of his feigning thought,
That all the world should with his rhymes be fraught.
How then dare I, the novice of his art,
Presume to picture so divine a wight,
Or hope t' express her least perfection's part,
Whose beauty fills the heavens with her light,
And darks the earth with shadow of her sight?
Ah, gentle Muse, thou art too weak and faint
The portrait of so heavenly hue to paint.
Let angels, which her goodly face behold
And see at will, her sovereign praises sing,
And those most sacred mysteries unfold
Of that fair love of mighty heaven's King;
Enough is me t' admire so heavenly thing,
And being thus with her huge love possest,
In th' only wonder of herself to rest.
But whoso may, thrice happy man him hold,
Of all on earth whom God so much doth grace
And lets his own beloved to behold;
For in the view of her celestial face
All joy, all bliss, all happiness, have place;
Ne aught on earth can want unto the wight
Who of herself can win the wishful sight.
For she, out of her secret treasury,
Plenty of riches forth on him will pour,
Even heavenly riches, which there hidden lie
Within the closet of her chastest bower,
Th' eternal portion of her precious dower,
Which mighty God hath given to her free,
And to all those which thereof worthy be.
None thereof worthy be, but those whom she
Vouchsafeth to her presence to receive,
And letteth them her lovely face to see,
Whereof such wondrous pleasures they conceive,
And sweet contentment, that it doth bereave
Their soul of sense, through infinite delight,
And them transport from flesh into the spright.
In which they see such admirable things,
As carries them into an ecstasy,
And hear such heavenly notes, and carollings
Of God's high praise, that fills the brazen sky;
And feel such joy and pleasure inwardly,
That maketh them all worldly cares forget,
And only think on that before them set.
Ne from thenceforth doth any fleshly sense,
Or idle thought of earthly things, remain;
But all that erst seem'd sweet seems now offence,
And all that pleased erst now seems to pain;
Their joy, their comfort, their desire, their gain,
Is fixed all on that which now they see;
All other sights but feigned shadows be.
And that fair lamp, which useth to inflame
The hearts of men with self-consuming fire
Thenceforth seems foul, and full of sinful blame;
And all that pomp to which proud minds aspire
By name of honour, and so much desire,
Seems to them baseness, and all riches dross,
And all mirth sadness, and all lucre loss.
So full their eyes are of that glorious sight,
And senses fraught with such satiety,
That in nought else on earth they can delight,
But in th' aspect of that felicity,
Which they have written in their inward eye;
On which they feed, and in their fastened mind
All happy joy and full contentment find.
Ah, then, my hungry soul, which long hast fed
On idle fancies of thy foolish thought,
And, with false beauty's flatt'ring bait misled,
Hast after vain deceitful shadows sought,
Which all are fled, and now have left thee nought
But late repentance through thy follies prief;
Ah cease to gaze on matter of thy grief:
And look at last up to that sovereign light,
From whose pure beams all perfect beauty springs,
That kindleth love in every godly sprite,
Even the love of God, which loathing brings
Of this vile world and these gay-seeming things;
With whose sweet pleasures being so possest,
Thy straying thoughts henceforth for ever rest.
These evil days require you to grit your teeth in misery to survive,
But you have to realize life is more
Than staying alive:
You have to create magical kindness in the heart,
Follow the skyscraper skyline
While in ecstasy pursuing art;
But still, I grow weary of cops kicking the homeless
Down heartless streets,
I’ll have to go out west and live in the sand,
Dance at dusk upon the beach,
Later, on midnight dunes I’ll sleep.
Living out your Divinity involves a philosophy of beauty
And refusing to hurt anyone.
If this our little life is but a day
In the Eternal, - if the years in vain
Toil after hours that never come again, -
If everything that hath been must decay,
Why dreamest thou of joys that pass away,
My soul, that my sad body doth restrain?
Why of the moment’s pleasure art thou fain?
Nay, thou hast wings, - nay, seek another stay.
There is the joy whereto each soul aspires,
And there the rest that all the world desires,
And there is love, and peace, and gracious mirth;
And there in the most highest heavens shalt thou
Behold the Very Beauty, whereof now
Thou worshippest the shadow upon earth.
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever:
Its lovliness increases; it will never
Pass into nothingness; but still will keep
A bower quiet for us, and a sleep
Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing.
Therefore, on every morrow, are we wreathing
A flowery band to bind us to the earth,
Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth
Of noble natures, of the gloomy days,
Of all the unhealthy and o'er-darkn'd ways
Made for our searching: yes, in spite of all,
Some shape of beauty moves away the pall
From our dark spirits. Such the sun, the moon,
Trees old and young, sprouting a shady boon
For simple sheep; and such are daffodils
With the green world they live in; and clear rills
That for themselves a cooling covert make
'Gainst the hot season; the mid-forest brake,
Rich with a sprinkling of fair musk-rose blooms:
And such too is the grandeur of the dooms
We have imagined for the mighty dead;
An endless fountain of immortal drink,
Pouring unto us from the heaven's brink.
I was a 20 year old unemployed receptionist with dyed orange dreadlocks sprouting out of my skull. I needed a job, but first, I needed a haircut.
So I head for this beauty salon on Avenue B.
I'm gonna get a hairdo.
I'm gonna look just like those hot Spanish haircut models, become brown and bodacious, grow some 7 inch fingernails painted bitch red and rake them down the chalkboard of the job market's soul.
So I go in the beauty salon.
This beautiful Puerto Rican girl in tight white spandex and a push-up bra sits me down and starts chopping my hair:
"Girlfriend," she says, "what the hell you got growing outta your head there, what is that, hair implants? Yuck, you want me to touch that shit, whadya got in there, sandwiches?"
I just go: "I'm sorry."
She starts snipping my carefully cultivated Johnny Lydon post-Pistols hairdo. My foul little dreadlocks are flying around all over the place but I'm not looking in the mirror cause I just don't want to know.
"So what's your name anyway?" My stylist demands then.
"Uh, Maggie."
"Maggie? Well, that's an okay name, but my name is Suzy."
"Yeah, so?"
"Yeah so it ain't just Suzy S.U.Z.Y, I spell it S.U.Z.E.E, the extra "e" is for extra Suzee."
I nod emphatically.
Suzee tells me when she's not busy chopping hair, she works as an exotic dancer at night to support her boyfriend named Rocco. Suzee loves Rocco, she loves him so much she's got her eyes closed as she describes him:
"6 foot 2, 193 pounds and, girlfriend, his arms so big and long they wrap around me twice like I'm a little Suzee sandwich."
Little Suzee Sandwich is rapt, she blindly snips and clips at my poor punk head. She snips and clips and snips and clips, she pauses, I look in the mirror: "Holy shit, I'm bald."
"Holy shit, baby, you're bald." Suzee says, finally opening her eyes and then gasping.
All I've got left is little post-nuke clumps of orange fuzz. And I'll never get a receptionist job now.
But Suzy waves her manicured finger in my face: "Don't you worry, baby, I'm gonna get you a job at the dancing club."
"What?"
" ;Baby, let me tell you, the boys are gonna like a bald go go dancer."
That said, she whips out some clippers, shaves my head smooth and insists I'm gonna love getting naked for a living.
None of this sounds like my idea of a good time, but I'm broke and I'm bald so I go home and get my best panties. Suzee lends me some 6 inch pumps, paints my lips bright red, and gives me 7 shots of Jack Daniels to relax me.
8pm that night I take the stage.
I'm bald,
I'm drunk,
and by god,
I'm naked.
HOLY SHIT I'M NAKED IN A ROOM FULL OF STRANGERS THIS IS NOT ONE OF THOSE RECURRING NIGHTMARES WE ALL HAVE ABOUT BEING BUTT NAKED IN PUBLIC, I AM NAKED, I DON'T KNOW THESE PEOPLE, THIS REALLY SUCKS.
A few guys feel sorry for me and risk getting their hands bitten off by sticking dollars in my garter belt. My disheveled pubic hairs stand at full attention, ready to poke the guys' eyes out if they get too close.
Then I notice this bald guy in the audience, I've got a new empathy for bald people, I figure maybe it works both ways, maybe this guy will stick 10 bucks in my garter.
I saunter over.
I'm teetering around unrhythmically, I'm the surliest, unsexiest dancer that ever go-go across this hemisphere. The bald guy looks down into his beer, he'd much rather look at that than at my pubic mound which has now formed into one vicious spike so it looks like I've got a unicorn in my crotch.
I stand there weaving through the air.
The strobe light is illuminating my pubic unicorn. Madonna's song Borderline is pumping through the club's speaker system for the 5th time tonight: "BORDERLINE BORDERLINE BORDERLINE/LOVE ME TIL I JUST CAN'T SEE." And suddenly, I start to wonder: What does that mean anyway?
"LOVE ME TIL I JUST CAN'T SEE"
What?
Screw me so much my eyes pop out, I go blind, end up walking down 2nd Avenue crazy, horny, naked and blind? What?
There's a glitch in the tape and it starts to skip.
"Borderl...ooop.....Borderl.... ooop...Borderlin.....ooop"
I stumble and twist my ankle. My g-string rides between my buttcheeks making me twitch with pain. My head starts spinning, my knees wobble, I go down on all fours and puke all over the bald guy's lap.
So there I am. Butt naked on all fours. But before I have time to regain my composure, the strip club manager comes over, points his smarmy strip club manager finger at me and goes:
"You're bald, you're drunk, you can't dance and you're fired."
I stand up.
"Oh yeah, well you stink like a sneaker, pal." I peel off one of my pumps and throw it in the direction of his fat head then I get the hell out of there.
A few days later I run into Suzee on Avenue A. Turns out she got fired for getting me a job there in the first place. But she was completely undaunted, she dragged me up to this wig store on 14th Street, bought me a mouse brown shag wig, then got us both telemarketing jobs on Wall Street.
And I never went to a beauty salon again.
Squire Adam had two wives, they say,
Two wives had he, for his delight,
He kissed and clypt them all the day
And clypt and kissed them all the night.
Now Eve like ocean foam was white
And Lilith roses dipped in wine,
But though they were a goodly sight
No lady is so fair as mine.
To Venus some folk tribute pay
And Queen of Beauty she is hight,
And Sainte Marie the world doth sway
In cerule napery bedight.
My wonderment these twain invite,
Their comeliness it is divine,
And yet I say in their despite,
No lady is so fair as mine.
Dame Helen caused a grievous fray,
For love of her brave men did fight,
The eyes of her made sages fey
And put their hearts in woeful plight.
To her no rhymes will I indite,
For her no garlands will I twine,
Though she be made of flowers and light
No lady is so fair as mine.
L'Envoi
Prince Eros, Lord of lovely might,
Who on Olympus dost recline,
Do I not tell the truth aright?
No lady is so fair as mine.
When Beauty and Beauty meet
All naked, fair to fair,
The earth is crying-sweet,
And scattering-bright the air,
Eddying, dizzying, closing round,
With soft and drunken laughter;
Veiling all that may befall
After -- after --
Where Beauty and Beauty met,
Earth's still a-tremble there,
And winds are scented yet,
And memory-soft the air,
Bosoming, folding glints of light,
And shreds of shadowy laughter;
Not the tears that fill the years
After -- after --
there is something about the ocean
that brings out the earth-mother in me
it is a place i love to go to write or
to ponder life's mysteries
being out in the ocean with
the waves spraying over me
feels something of a baptism
a cleansing of my soul's debris
the beach has a magnificent beauty
that never ceases to amaze me
and makes me feel one with the earth
in rhythmn and harmony
i realize as i look out to sea
how very small i really must be
in the overall scheme of things
i love the sea for it brings
out the spirituality in me
the feeling of being totally free
like seagulls overhead and
the sand underneath my feet
or the engulfing sun warming me
to get down to the nitty-gritty
the sea is a poet's paradise to me
Beauty arise, show forth thy glorious shining,
Thine eyes feed love, for them he standeth pining ;
Honor and youth attend to do their duty
To thee, their only sovereign, Beauty.
Beauty arise, whilst we, thy servants, sing
Io to Hymen, wedlock's jocund king.
Io to Hymen, Io, Io, sing ;
Of wedlock, love, and youth is Hymen king.
Beauty arise, Beauty arise, thy glorious lights display,
Whilst we sing Io, glad to see this day.
Io, Io, to Hymen, Io, Io, sing ;
Of wedlock, love, and youth is Hymen king.
BEAUTY clear and fair,
Where the air
Rather like a perfume dwells;
Where the violet and the rose
Their blue veins and blush disclose,
And come to honour nothing else:
Where to live near
And planted there
Is to live, and still live new;
Where to gain a favour is
More than light, perpetual bliss--
Make me live by serving you!
Dear, again back recall
To this light,
A stranger to himself and all!
Both the wonder and the story
Shall be yours, and eke the glory;
I am your servant, and your thrall.
Beauty imposes reverence in the Spring,
Grave as the urge within the honeybuds,
It wounds us as we sing.
Beauty is joy that stays not overlong.
Clad in the magic of sincerities,
It rides up in a song.
Beauty imposes chastenings on the heart,
Grave as the birds in last solemnities
Assembling to depart.
Theres a poem in every flower,
a sonnet in every tree,
a tale in every lifetime
its just for you to see...
theres a lyric in every brook
as it rushes over rocks,
theres  an ode in every nuance,
as loves wonder unlocks,
theres rhythm in every sound,
every beating of a heart,
theres poetry in every union
and every couple who are apart
and just as there is wonder
in every new life created
there is sadness and regret,
for the unsaid and unfeted
just listen for the music
that your ears cannot hear,
just strain yourself for the melody
thats so far and yet so near
the wonder of the creator,
the magic of the divine
is there to feel, for all of us,
to soon be yours and mine
I am black
I am beautiful
inside and out
I am black
I am beautiful
my voice is medium toned, I try not to shout
I am black
I am beautiful
I don't let anyone put me down
I am black
I am beautiful
Though sometimes I may act as a clown
I am black
I am beautiful
I'm filled with such pride
I am black
I am beautiful
I'll make such a wonderful bride
Black and Beauty
that describes the outside of me
Nice or mean, you have to decide
To me and most people I am nice inside
I am beautiful, I am black
I am black, I am beautiful
Beauty marks are meant for kissing...
This girl's are found in places pleasing:
On her neck, scented and lissome,
On rounded cheek with smile so teasing.
Another hides where seldom seen
By curious eyes in day or dark;
Yet when she dresses privately
That curve 'bove breast shows beauty's mark.
These sweet signs of Venus's blessing
Are meant for enlightened men of earth
Who ken that women crave much kissing
for their beauty and inner worth.
516
Beauty—be not caused—It Is—
Chase it, and it ceases—
Chase it not, and it abides—
Overtake the Creases
In the Meadow—when the Wind
Runs his fingers thro' it—
Deity will see to it
That You never do it—
The beautiful, the fair, the elegant,
Is that which pleases us, says Kant,
Without a thought of interest or advantage.
I used to watch men when they spoke of beauty
And measure their enthusiasm. One
An old man, seeing a ( ) setting sun,
Praised it ( ) a certain sense of duty
To the calm evening and his time of life.
I know another man that never says a Beauty
But of a horse; ( )
Men seldom speak of beauty, beauty as such,
Not even lovers think about it much.
Women of course consider it for hours
In mirrors; ( )
A shrapnel ball -
Just where the wet skin glistened when he swam -
Like a fully-opened sea-anemone.
We both said 'What a beauty! What a beauty, lad'
I knew that in that flower he saw a hope
Of living on, and seeing again the roses of his home.
Beauty is that which pleases and delights,
Not bringing personal advantage - Kant.
But later on I heard
A canker worked into that crimson flower
And that he sank with it
And laid it with the anemones off Dover.
The beauty of a Summer's day begins
Watching the bright, morning sun rise,
Dew upon the lawn and roses,
And the early flight of colorful butterflies.
The beauty of a Summer's day
Is an attractive and picturesque one,
A sky of a variable color of pale to light blue,
And sport and entertainment for everyone.
The beauty of a Summer's day
Is stetched with green foliage on the hill,
And colorful wildflowers bordering the roadway,
The water wheel turning at the grist mill.
The beauty of a Summer's day increases
Watching the rolling waves of the ocean,
Sea shells washing upon the sandy shore,
And gazing at the sea gulls gliding in slow motion.
The finality of a Summer's day
Is depicted with memorable scenes
Of picnicking, camping, swimming, and traveling,
Reserved for Summer enthusiasts for future dreams.
I don’t desire to wear a sad face too long
When I know I live in a world of flowers and birds
And that the evening will usher in a sky of scattered stars,
When I know hopeful prayers and songs
Can find you wherever you are.
I’m going to peruse the Psalms and the Dhammapada,
Find encouraging light in the Bhagavad-Gita
Until my breath is one with gratitude
And forever connected to the beauty of life.
Age is just a state of mind
And this we know for sure -
It isn't like some rare disease
For which there is no cure;
It creeps upon us silently
To catch us unaware
And while we worry about getting old
We're already getting there;
But there's a consolation
To this thing called getting old -
Our hair will turn to silver
And our teeth will turn to gold;
Age is just a state of mind
A case of brain and brawn -
Before we realize the body is shot
The mind will already be gone!
WHAT does it mean? Tired, angry, and ill at ease,
No man, woman, or child alive could please
Me now. And yet I almost dare to laugh
Because I sit and frame an epitaph-
'Here lies all that no one loved of him
And that loved no one.' Then in a trice that whim
Has wearied. But, though I am like a river
At fall of evening when it seems that never
Has the sun lighted it or warmed it, while
Cross breezes cut the surface to a file,
This heart, some fraction of me, hapily
Floats through a window even now to a tree
Down in the misting, dim-lit, quiet vale;
Not like a pewit that returns to wail
For something it has lost, but like a dove
That slants unanswering to its home and love.
There I find my rest, and through the dusk air
Flies what yet lives in me. Beauty is there
Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder
Beauty is in all things.
Beauty is in the sky.
Beauty is in the water ever so blue.
Beauty is the winter when trees are covered with snow.
Beauty is the summer when you smell and see the flowers grow.
Beauty is all things big and little.
Beauty is in all things,
Black and white.
Beauty is in all things, you and me.
Beauty is all around us...can't you see?
Say not of beauty she is good,
Or aught but beautiful,
Or sleek to doves' wings of the wood
Her wild wings of a gull.
Call her not wicked; that word's touch
Consumes her like a curse;
But love her not too much, too much,
For that is even worse.
O, she is neither good nor bad,
But innocent and wild!
Enshrine her and she dies, who had
The hard heart of a child.
Even as on some black background full of night
And hollow storm in cloudy disarray,
The forceful brush of some great master may
More brilliantly evoke a higher light;
So beautiful, so delicately white,
So like a very metaphor of May,
Your loveliness on my life's sombre grey
In its perfection stands out doubly bright.
And yet your beauty breeds a strange despair,
And pang of yearning in the helpless heart;
To shield you from time's fraying wear and tear,
That from yourself yourself would wrench apart,
How save you, fairest, but to set you where
Mortality kills death in deathless art?
Look in my eyes, what do you see,
Beauty of the inner me.
Deep down in your heart, what do you feel,
The beauty of a love that is real.
Touch my hand soft and tender
Is a beauty that makes you surrender.
Listen to my words, what do you hear,
Beauty flowing through the air
Look around you to your left and right
All you'll see is beauty tonight
Kiss my lips, what do you taste
A beauty that would never waste
Run your hands down my body
While looking into my eyes
Listen to my loving words
As my beauty conceals no lies
beauty is a gift of god
love and affection
beauty and warmth
pleasure and comfort
beauty is a desire
of lovely face and heart
beauty is a melodious tune
beauty is art
what is beauty
without love and affection
beauty is happiness
of a kind nature
such a beauty aishwarya rai has
impressive and bold eyes
if she can be beautiful
so can u be
be gud and have some fun
being beautiful is a kind of a duty
beauty is of love and affection
not any kind of rejection
Most people find beauty in looks,
But I find beauty from the written words in books.
I find beauty in the sun set and sun rise.
I find beauty in three small dog's eyes.
I find beauty in the motion of the sea.
The green fingers of mother nature are very beautiful to me.
I find beauty in my friends laughter.
I find beauty in stories that end happily ever after.
Beauty comes within.
Not within the heart
But further, beauty within the soul.
If you look deep inside the soul
That beauty will be there.
It's a beautiful thing to see
If you're lucky enough to see it.
It's not on my face.
Not in the eyes.
Nor on the body.
The beauty is in my soul.
Always remember that.
I may not be pretty
nor skinny.
My beauty is below my heart, in my soul.
So if you take the time
And look depper
You'll see the beauty I see!
The beautiful, the fair, the elegant,
Is that which pleases us, says Kant,
Without a thought of interest or advantage.
I used to watch men when they spoke of beauty
And measure their enthusiasm. One
An old man, seeing a ()  setting sun,
Praised it ()  a certain sense of duty
To the calm evening and his time of life.
I know another man that never says a Beauty
But of a horse; ()
Men seldom speak of beauty, beauty as such,
Not even lovers think about it much.
Women of course consider it for hours
In mirrors; ()
A shrapnel ball -
Just where the wet skin glistened when he swam -
Like a fully-opened sea-anemone.
We both said 'What a beauty! What a beauty, lad'
I knew that in that flower he saw a hope
Of living on, and seeing again the roses of his home.
Beauty is that which pleases and delights,
Not bringing personal advantage - Kant.
But later on I heard
A canker worked into that crimson flower
And that he sank with it
And laid it with the anemones off Dover.
You say that you can picture me sitting in my chair.
What is it that you picture when you look from over there?
Do you envision beauty or an ugly, wrinkled hag?
Does my skin give off a glow or do my wrinkles sag?
It's strange to think you picture someone you've never seen.
I could be short and squatty or maybe tall and lean.
What is the face that's given to represent this poem?
Is it of a beauty queen or just a garden gnome?
There was in her face,
in the contours of her
beauty lines
a past smoothing out
which I could see
would match
her older photographs.
The older her
only hinted at
that prior
state.
But I took my time
to look at her
now past 55
to see
in that older landscape
what my eye
sought
in her face at twenty and five..
Could not the face
before me
be seen
on its own terms?
Where is that beauty
line between
beauty and non-beauty?
Is it the tightness of the skin
the twinkle in the eye,
healthy look or
non-healthy look?
What's true is that
my own Western
eye
can only see age;
not nobility;
only TV screen beauty-
not maturity.
But you know
there are a myriad of exceptions;
children don't see age
the same way we do
nor does most of the world.
What is going on here?
I
FAIR is my Love and cruel as she 's fair;
Her brow-shades frown, although her eyes are sunny.
Her smiles are lightning, though her pride despair,
And her disdains are gall, her favours honey:
A modest maid, deck'd with a blush of honour,
Whose feet do tread green paths of youth and love;
The wonder of all eyes that look upon her,
Sacred on earth, design'd a Saint above.
Chastity and Beauty, which were deadly foes,
Live reconciled friends within her brow;
And had she Pity to conjoin with those,
Then who had heard the plaints I utter now?
For had she not been fair, and thus unkind,
My Muse had slept, and none had known my mind.
II
My spotless love hovers with purest wings,
About the temple of the proudest frame,
Where blaze those lights, fairest of earthly things,
Which clear our clouded world with brightest flame.
My ambitious thoughts, confined in her face,
Affect no honour but what she can give;
My hopes do rest in limits of her grace;
I weigh no comfort unless she relieve.
For she, that can my heart imparadise,
Holds in her fairest hand what dearest is;
My Fortune's wheel 's the circle of her eyes,
Whose rolling grace deign once a turn of bliss.
All my life's sweet consists in her alone;
So much I love the most Unloving one.
III
And yet I cannot reprehend the flight
Or blame th' attempt presuming so to soar;
The mounting venture for a high delight
Did make the honour of the fall the more.
For who gets wealth, that puts not from the shore?
Danger hath honour, great designs their fame;
Glory doth follow, courage goes before;
And though th' event oft answers not the same--
Suffice that high attempts have never shame.
The mean observer, whom base safety keeps,
Lives without honour, dies without a name,
And in eternal darkness ever sleeps.--
And therefore, Delia, 'tis to me no blot
To have attempted, tho' attain'd thee not.
IV
When men shall find thy flow'r, thy glory, pass,
And thou with careful brow, sitting alone,
Received hast this message from thy glass,
That tells the truth and says that All is gone;
Fresh shalt thou see in me the wounds thou mad'st,
Though spent thy flame, in me the heat remaining:
I that have loved thee thus before thou fad'st--
My faith shall wax, when thou art in thy waning.
The world shall find this miracle in me,
That fire can burn when all the matter 's spent:
Then what my faith hath been thyself shalt see,
And that thou wast unkind thou may'st repent.--
Thou may'st repent that thou hast scorn'd my tears,
When Winter snows upon thy sable hairs.
V
Beauty, sweet Love, is like the morning dew,
Whose short refresh upon the tender green
Cheers for a time, but till the sun doth show,
And straight 'tis gone as it had never been.
Soon doth it fade that makes the fairest flourish,
Short is the glory of the blushing rose;
The hue which thou so carefully dost nourish,
Yet which at length thou must be forced to lose.
When thou, surcharged with burthen of thy years,
Shalt bend thy wrinkles homeward to the earth;
And that, in Beauty's Lease expired, appears
The Date of Age, the Calends of our Death--
But ah, no more!--this must not be foretold,
For women grieve to think they must be old.
VI
I must not grieve my Love, whose eyes would read
Lines of delight, whereon her youth might smile;
Flowers have time before they come to seed,
And she is young, and now must sport the while.
And sport, Sweet Maid, in season of these years,
And learn to gather flowers before they wither;
And where the sweetest blossom first appears,
Let Love and Youth conduct thy pleasures thither.
Lighten forth smiles to clear the clouded air,
And calm the tempest which my sighs do raise;
Pity and smiles do best become the fair;
Pity and smiles must only yield thee praise.
Make me to say when all my griefs are gone,
Happy the heart that sighed for such a one!
VII
Let others sing of Knights and Paladines
In aged accents and untimely words,
Paint shadows in imaginary lines,
Which well the reach of their high wit records:
But I must sing of thee, and those fair eyes
Authentic shall my verse in time to come;
When yet th' unborn shall say, Lo, where she lies!
Whose beauty made him speak, that else was dumb!
These are the arcs, the trophies I erect,
That fortify thy name against old age;
And these thy sacred virtues must protect
Against the Dark, and Time's consuming rage.
Though th' error of my youth in them appear,
Suffice, they show I lived, and loved thee dear.
And a poet said, 'Speak to us of Beauty.'
Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide?
And how shall you speak of her except she be the weaver of your speech?
The aggrieved and the injured say, 'Beauty is kind and gentle.
Like a young mother half-shy of her own glory she walks among us.'
And the passionate say, 'Nay, beauty is a thing of might and dread.
Like the tempest she shakes the earth beneath us and the sky above us.'
The tired and the weary say, 'beauty is of soft whisperings. She speaks in our spirit.
Her voice yields to our silences like a faint light that quivers in fear of the shadow.'
But the restless say, 'We have heard her shouting among the mountains,
And with her cries came the sound of hoofs, and the beating of wings and the roaring of lions.'
At night the watchmen of the city say, 'Beauty shall rise with the dawn from the east.'
And at noontide the toilers and the wayfarers say, 'we have seen her leaning over the earth from the windows of the sunset.'
In winter say the snow-bound, 'She shall come with the spring leaping upon the hills.'
And in the summer heat the reapers say, 'We have seen her dancing with the autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of snow in her hair.'
All these things have you said of beauty.
Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied,
And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy.
It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth,
But rather a heart enflamed and a soul enchanted.
It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear,
But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears.
It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw,
But rather a garden forever in bloom and a flock of angels for ever in flight.
People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face.
But you are life and you are the veil.
Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror.
But you are eternity and you are the mirror.
One heavy day I ran away from the grim face of society and the dizzying clamor of the city and directed my weary step to the spacious alley. I pursued the beckoning course of the rivulet and the musical sounds of the birds until I reached a lonely spot where the flowing branches of the trees prevented the sun from the touching the earth.
I stood there, and it was entertaining to my soul - my thirsty soul who had seen naught but the mirage of life instead of its sweetness.
I was engrossed deeply in thought and my spirits were sailing the firmament when a hour, wearing a sprig of grapevine that covered part of her naked body, and a wreath of poppies about her golden hair, suddenly appeared to me. As she she realized my astonishment, she greeted me saying, 'Fear me not; I am the Nymph of the Jungle.'
'How can beauty like yours be committed to live in this place? Please tell me who your are, and whence you come? ' I asked. She sat gracefully on the green grass and responded, 'I am the symbol of nature! I am the ever virgin your forefathers worshipped, and to my honor they erected shrines and temples at Baalbek and Jbeil.' And I dared say, 'But those temples and shrines were laid waste and the bones of my adoring ancestors became a part of the earth; nothing was left to commemorate their goddess save a pitiful few and the forgotten pages in the book of history.'
She replied, 'Some goddesses live in the lives of their worshippers and die in their deaths, while some live an eternal and infinite life. My life is sustained by the world of beauty which you will see where ever you rest your eyes, and this beauty is nature itself; it is the beginning of the shepherds joy among the hills, and a villagers happiness in the fields, and the pleasure of the awe filled tribes between the mountains and the plains. This Beauty promotes the wise into the throne the truth.'
Then I said, 'Beauty is a terrible power! ' And she retorted, 'Human beings fear all things, even yourselves. You fear heaven, the source of spiritual peace; you fear nature, the haven of rest and tranquility; you fear the God of goodness and accuse him of anger, while he is full of love and mercy.'
After a deep silence, mingled with sweet dreams, I asked, 'Speak to me of that beauty which the people interpret and define, each one according to his own conception; I have seen her honored and worshipped in different ways and manners.'
She answered, 'Beauty is that which attracts your soul, and that which loves to give and not to receive. When you meet Beauty, you feel that the hands deep within your inner self are stretched forth to bring her into the domain of your heart. It is the magnificence combined of sorrow and joy; it is the Unseen which you see, and the Vague which you understand, and the Mute which you hear - it is the Holy of Holies that begins in yourself and ends vastly beyond your earthly imagination.'
Then the Nymph of the Jungle approached me and laid her scented hands upon my eyes. And as she withdrew, I found me alone in the valley. When I returned to the city, whose turbulence no longer vexed me, I repeated her words:
'Beauty is that which attracts your soul, and that which loves to give and not to receive.'
Beauty is warm and cold
Beauty is black and bold
Beauty is different for us all I am told
Beauty I would love a chance to mould
Beauty gives the finest pleasure I am told
Beauty can be bought and sold
To the one and only highest bidder
While it graciously glitters like gold
I adore beauty
Oh! How I adore beauty with a passion
I adore beauty with every last breath
Beauty itself is not exempt
From the laws of birth and death
It experiences the joys of being young and old
Blossoming each day in early youth
Maturing adoringly each day with age
Behold, I adore beauty
Oh! How I adore beauty with a passion
Beauty is something I would like to hold
Where there is too much ugly
I can bring it out of a drawer and unfold
Spread it around the entire household
Without worrying about getting a scold
Behold, I adore beauty
Oh! How I adore beauty
When out on a nightie
Quite hungry and thirsty
And you drink the last drops of milk
From a beautiful chest that is busty
I would say, that itself is a faculty of beauty
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Consider
a girl who keeps slipping off,
arms limp as old carrots,
into the hypnotist's trance,
into a spirit world
speaking with the gift of tongues.
She is stuck in the time machine,
suddenly two years old sucking her thumb,
as inward as a snail,
learning to talk again.
She's on a voyage.
She is swimming further and further back,
up like a salmon,
struggling into her mother's pocketbook.
Little doll child,
come here to Papa.
Sit on my knee.
I have kisses for the back of your neck.
A penny for your thoughts, Princess.
I will hunt them like an emerald.
Come be my snooky
and I will give you a root.
That kind of voyage,
rank as a honeysuckle.
Once
a king had a christening
for his daughter Briar Rose
and because he had only twelve gold plates
he asked only twelve fairies
to the grand event.
The thirteenth fairy,
her fingers as long and thing as straws,
her eyes burnt by cigarettes,
her uterus an empty teacup,
arrived with an evil gift.
She made this prophecy:
The princess shall prick herself
on a spinning wheel in her fifteenth year
and then fall down dead.
Kaputt!
The court fell silent.
The king looked like Munch's Scream
Fairies' prophecies,
in times like those,
held water.
However the twelfth fairy
had a certain kind of eraser
and thus she mitigated the curse
changing that death
into a hundred-year sleep.
The king ordered every spinning wheel
exterminated and exorcised.
Briar Rose grew to be a goddess
and each night the king
bit the hem of her gown
to keep her safe.
He fastened the moon up
with a safety pin
to give her perpetual light
He forced every male in the court
to scour his tongue with Bab-o
lest they poison the air she dwelt in.
Thus she dwelt in his odor.
Rank as honeysuckle.
On her fifteenth birthday
she pricked her finger
on a charred spinning wheel
and the clocks stopped.
Yes indeed. She went to sleep.
The king and queen went to sleep,
the courtiers, the flies on the wall.
The fire in the hearth grew still
and the roast meat stopped crackling.
The trees turned into metal
and the dog became china.
They all lay in a trance,
each a catatonic
stuck in a time machine.
Even the frogs were zombies.
Only a bunch of briar roses grew
forming a great wall of tacks
around the castle.
Many princes
tried to get through the brambles
for they had heard much of Briar Rose
but they had not scoured their tongues
so they were held by the thorns
and thus were crucified.
In due time
a hundred years passed
and a prince got through.
The briars parted as if for Moses
and the prince found the tableau intact.
He kissed Briar Rose
and she woke up crying:
Daddy! Daddy!
Presto! She's out of prison!
She married the prince
and all went well
except for the fear -
the fear of sleep.
Briar Rose
was an insomniac...
She could not nap
or lie in sleep
without the court chemist
mixing her some knock-out drops
and never in the prince's presence.
If if is to come, she said,
sleep must take me unawares
while I am laughing or dancing
so that I do not know that brutal place
where I lie down with cattle prods,
the hole in my cheek open.
Further, I must not dream
for when I do I see the table set
and a faltering crone at my place,
her eyes burnt by cigarettes
as she eats betrayal like a slice of meat.
I must not sleep
for while I'm asleep I'm ninety
and think I'm dying.
Death rattles in my throat
like a marble.
I wear tubes like earrings.
I lie as still as a bar of iron.
You can stick a needle
through my kneecap and I won't flinch.
I'm all shot up with Novocain.
This trance girl
is yours to do with.
You could lay her in a grave,
an awful package,
and shovel dirt on her face
and she'd never call back: Hello there!
But if you kissed her on the mouth
her eyes would spring open
and she'd call out: Daddy! Daddy!
Presto!
She's out of prison.
There was a theft.
That much I am told.
I was abandoned.
That much I know.
I was forced backward.
I was forced forward.
I was passed hand to hand
like a bowl of fruit.
Each night I am nailed into place
and forget who I am.
Daddy?
That's another kind of prison.
It's not the prince at all,
but my father
drunkeningly bends over my bed,
circling the abyss like a shark,
my father thick upon me
like some sleeping jellyfish.
What voyage is this, little girl?
This coming out of prison?
God help -
this life after death?
Can beauty remain beauty without light?
No beauty survives without light in sight
To endure the pangs sharp of age in flight,
For fair with folly dead plunges at night.
When beauty blooms into beauty divine,
Showered with wisdom married to light to shine,
To border of no ending on the line,
Lifted is beauty's life onto cloud nine.
Life valued more in thought than gold man eyes,
Beats thrones, castles held in esteem that dies.
Vessels with covetousness, wrath, spite, lust, pride,
Greed, sloth do sink into oblivion wide.
Life is nature, who stores light in sublime.
Such beauty saved as truth lives on with time.
The falling of snowflakes coming down
Making a blanket of white on the ground.
Autumn with red and gold-leaves,
Falling to the ground, in a cool breeze.
The rising of the sun of crimson,
A buzzing of the Bees,
As they go on their mission.
A cool-breese blowing in the trees.
The beautiful- flowers of red, yellow, and blue.
The sparkling of grass, with morning-dew.
The sea is beautiful, with Blue-sky above.
The flying of sea-gulls and of doves.
The birds singing up in the trees,
As a gentle-wind blows the green-leaves.
Beautiful-butterflies going their way.
The beauty of nature, really make my day!
As if chiseled, a fruit-laden branch
Hangs in my garden, asleep - so low...
The trees sleep - and dream? - in moonlight;
And the mystery of their life is near, near...
Even if we cannot grasp it,
The mute language is still intelligible:
They use our beauty to express
How we are one amidst rays and spots of light.
And the tremor of any life's creation
Reveals itself in a lovely form;
And the variance of different things is sweetened
By shared beauty. Multiply it!
And the world will be like this unstirring garden,
Where everything heeds a harmonious silence:
Both stem and flower yield to the dear Earth;
Both flower and stem listen to the Moon.
Drunken mystics
Reveal simple truths
Like the fragility
Of child-like hearts;
But if you shun
Broken, street poets
For a penthouse view
And the Arts and Entertainment section
Of the Wall Street Journal,
You will never perceive
The delicate beauty
Of humanity in decline.
I went for a walk with my love
down to an old vacant lot she took me
littered, and broken up
it made me sad,
made me think of myself
I asked why she took me there
she silently smiled
and took my hand
led me to a place
The pavement was cracked
the ground heaped with garbage
old and new
near a makeshift shelter
that some one had left
She kissed my tears away
told me to smile
when I asked why
she told me to open my eyes
leaving me confused
she said to look at the beauty
surrounding us
then began to point
the doorway of the crude shack
was open, and the was a spiderweb
moist with the morning dew
small dropp formed at it ran down
and it was beautiful
A few feet away
there was a daffodil
growing, thriving
despite the battered tarmac
through which it found a way
standing tall and proud
as well it should
and it was beautiful
Just then we looked up
and what did we see
a blue jay landing atop the roof
and began singing it's song
The sun was rising
peaking over the horizon
painting it red, orange,
yellow, and even violet
the sky was it's canvas
and it was beautiful
She took me home
pointing at many other things
while we strolled home
when we got there
I thanked her
told her she was beautiful
she stood me in front a mirror
telling me to find the beauty
there we stood for many long minutes
I looked, I saw, I contemplated
the sorrow carved into my features
the gentle wonder in my eyes
the scars life has left upon me
and it was beautiful
For beauty I am not a star,
There are others more perfect by far,
But my face I don't mind it,
For I am behind it,
It is those in front that I jar.
'Twas at that hour of beauty when the setting sun
squandereth his cloudy bed with rosy hues, to flood
his lov'd works as in turn he biddeth them Good-night;
and all the towers and temples and mansions of men
face him in bright farewell, ere they creep from their pomp
naked beneath the darkness;- while to mortal eyes
'tis given, ifso they close not of fatigue, nor strain
at lamplit tasks-'tis given, as for a royal boon
to beggarly outcasts in homeless vigil, to watch
where uncurtain's behind the great windows of space
Heav'n's jewel'd company circleth unapproachably-
'Twas at sunset that I, fleeing to hide my soul
in refuge of beauty from a mortal distress,
walk'd alone with the Muse in her garden of thought,
discoursing at liberty with the mazy dreams
that came wavering pertinaciously about me; as when
the small bats, issued from their hangings, flitter o'erhead
thru' the summer twilight, with thin cries to and fro
hunting in muffled flight atween the stars and flowers.
Then fell I in strange delusion, illusion strange to tell;
for as a man who lyeth fast asleep in his bed
may dream he waketh, and that he walketh upright
pursuing some endeavour in full conscience-so 'twas
with me; but contrawise; for being in truth awake
methought I slept and dreamt; and in thatt dream methought
I was telling a dream; nor telling was I as one
who, truly awaked from a true sleep, thinketh to tell
his dream to a friend, but for his scant remembrances
findeth no token of speech-it was not so with me;
for my tale was my dream and my dream the telling,
and I remember wondring the while I told it
how I told it so tellingly.  And yet now 'twould seem
that Reason inveighed me with her old orderings;
as once when she took thought to adjust theology,
peopling the inane that vex'd her between God and man
with a hierarchy of angels; like those asteroids
wherewith she later fill'd the gap 'twixt Jove and Mars.
Verily by Beauty it is that we come as WISDOM,
yet not by Reason at Beauty; and now with many words
pleasing myself betimes I am fearing lest in the end
I play the tedious orator who maundereth on
for lack of heart to make an end of his nothings.
Wherefor as when a runner who hath run his round
handeth his staff away, and is glad of his rest,
here break I off, knowing the goal was not for me
the while I ran on telling of what cannot be told.
For not the Muse herself can tell of Goddes love;
which cometh to the child from the Mother's embrace,
an Idea spacious as the starry firmament's
inescapable infinity of radiant gaze,
that fadeth only as it outpasseth mortal sight:
and this direct contact is 't with eternities,
this springtide miracle of the soul's nativity
that oft hath set philosophers adrift in dream;
which thing Christ taught, when he set up a little child
to teach his first Apostles and to accuse their pride,
saying, 'Unless ye shall receive it as a child,
ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven.'
So thru'out all his young mental apprenticehood
the child of very simplicity, and in the grace
and beauteous attitude of infantine wonder,
is apt to absorb Ideas in primal purity,
and by the assimilation of thatt immortal food
may build immortal life; but ever with the growth
of understanding, as the sensible images
are more and more corrupt, troubled by questioning thought,
or with vainglory alloy'd, 'tis like enought the boy
in prospect of his manhood wil hav cast to th' winds
his Baptism with his Babyhood; nor might he escape
the fall of Ev'ryman, did not a second call
of nature's Love await him to confirm his Faith
or to revoke him if he is whollylapsed therefrom.
And so mighty is this second vision, which cometh
in puberty of body and adolescence of mind
that, forgetting his Mother, he calleth it 'first Love';
for it mocketh at suasion or stubbornness of heart,
as the oceantide of the omnipotent Pleasur of God,
flushing all avenues of life, and unawares
by thousandfold approach forestalling its full flood
with divination of the secret contacts of Love,--
of faintest ecstasies aslumber in Nature's calm,
like thought in a closed book, where some poet long since
sang his throbbing passion to immortal sleep-with coy
tenderness delicat as the shifting hues
that sanctify the silent dawn with wonder-gleams,
whose evanescence is the seal of their glory,
consumed in self-becoming of eternity;
til every moment as it flyeth, cryeth 'Seize!
Seize me ere I die!  I am the Life of Life.'
'Tis thus by near approach to an eternal presence
man's heart with divine furor kindled and possess'd
falleth in blind surrender; and finding therewithal
in fullest devotion the full reconcilement
betwixt his animal and spiritual desires,
such welcome hour of bliss standeth for certain pledge
of happiness perdurable: and coud he sustain
this great enthusiasm, then the unbounded promise
would keep fulfilment; since the marriage of true minds
is thatt once fabled garden, amidst of which was set
the single Tree that bore such med'cinable fruit
that if man ate thereof he should liv for ever.
Friendship is in loving rather than in being lov'd,
which is its mutual benediction and recompense;
and tho' this be, and tho' love is from lovers learn'd,
it springeth none the less from the old essence of self.
No friendless man ('twas well said) can be truly himself;
what a man looketh for in his friend and findeth,
and loving self best, loveth better than himself,
is his own better self, his live lovable idea,
flowering by expansion in the loves of his life.
And in the nobility of our earthly friendships
we hav al grades of attainment, and the best may claim
perfection of kind; and so, since ther be many bonds
other than breed (friendships of lesser motiv, found
even in the brutes) and since our politick is based
on actual association of living men, 'twil come
that the spiritual idea of Friendship, the huge
vastidity of its essence, is fritter'd away
in observation of the usual habits of men;
as happ'd with the great moralist, where his book saith
that ther can be no friendship betwixt God and man
because of their unlimited disparity.
From this dilemma of pagan thought, this poison of faith,
Man-soul made glad escape in the worship of Christ;
for his humanity is God's Personality,
and communion with him is the life of the soul.
Of which living ideas (when in the struggle of thought
harden'd by language they became symbols of faith)
Reason builded her maze, wherefrom none should escape,
wandering intent to map and learn her tortuous clews,
chanting their clerkly creed to the high-echoing stones
of their hand-fashion'd temple: but the Wind of heav'n
bloweth where it listeth, and Christ yet walketh the earth,
and talketh still as with those two disciples once
on the road to Emmaus-where they walk and are sad;
whose vision of him then was his victory over death,
thatt resurrection which all his lovers should share,
who in loving him had learn'd the Ethick of happiness;
whereby they too should come where he was ascended
to reign over men's hearts in the Kingdom of God.
Our happiest earthly comradeships hold a foretaste
of the feast of salvation and by thatt virtue in them
provoke desire beyond them to out-reach and surmount
their humanity in some superhumanity
and ultimat perfection: which, howe'ever 'tis found
or strangeley imagin'd, answereth to the need of each
and pulleth him instinctivly as to a final cause.
Thus unto all who hav found their high ideal in Christ,
Christ is to them the essence discern'd or undeiscern'd
of all their human friendships; and each lover of him
and of his beauty must be as a bud on the Vine
and hav participation in him; for Goddes love
is unescapable as nature's environment,
which if a man ignore or think to thrust it off
he is the ill-natured fool that runneth blindly on death.
This Individualism is man's true Socialism.
This is the rife Idea whose spiritual beauty
multiplieth in communion to transcendant might.
This is thatt excelent way whereon if we wil walk
all things shall be added unto us-thatt Love which inspired
the wayward Visionary in his doctrinal ode
to the three christian Graces, the Church's first hymn
and only deathless athanasian creed,--the which
'except a man believe he cannot be saved.'
This is the endearing bond whereby Christ's company
yet holdeth together on the truth of his promise
that he spake of his grat pity and trust in man's love,
'Lo, I am with you always ev'n to the end of the world.'
Truly the Soul returneth the body's loving
where it hath won it...and God so loveth the world...
and in the fellowship of the friendship of Christ
God is seen as the very self-essence of love,
Creator and mover of all as activ Lover of all,
self-express'd in not-self, mind and body, mother and child,
'twixt lover and loved, God and man: but ONE ETERNAL
in the love of Beauty and in the selfhood of Love.
Beauty like hers is genius. Not the call
Of Homer's or of Dante's heart sublime, --
Not Michael's hand furrowing the zones of time, --
Is more with compassed mysteries musical;
Nay, not in Spring's Summer's sweet footfall
More gathered gifts exuberant Life bequeaths
Than doth this sovereign face, whose love-spell breathes
Even from its shadowed contour on the wall.
As many men are poets in their youth,
But for one sweet-strung soul the wires prolong
Even through all change the indomitable song;
So in likewise the envenomed years, whose tooth
Rends shallower grace with ruin void of truth,
Upon this beauty's power shall wreak no wrong.
God scatters beauty as he scatters flowers
O'er the wide earth, and tells us all are ours.
A hundred lights in every temple burn,
And at each shrine I bend my knee in turn.
When my arms wrap you round I press
My heart upon the loveliness
That has long faded from the world;
The jewelled crowns that kings have hurled
In shadowy pools, when armies fled;
The love-tales wrought with silken thread
By dreaming ladies upon cloth
That has made fat the murderous moth;
The roses that of old time were
Woven by ladies in their hair,
The dew-cold lilies ladies bore
Through many a sacred corridor
Where such grey clouds of incense rose
That only God's eyes did not close:
For that pale breast and lingering hand
Come from a more dream-heavy land,
A more dream-heavy hour than this;
And when you sigh from kiss to kiss
I hear white Beauty sighing, too,
For hours when all must fade like dew.
But flame on flame, and deep on deep,
Throne over throne where in half sleep,
Their swords upon their iron knees,
Brood her high lonely mysteries.
O CLOUD-PALE eyelids, dream-dimmed eyes,
The poets labouring all their days
To build a perfect beauty in rhyme
Are overthrown by a woman's gaze
And by the unlabouring brood of the skies:
And therefore my heart will bow, when dew
Is dropping sleep, until God burn time,
Before the unlabouring stars and you.
The awful shadow of some unseen Power
Floats through unseen among us, -- visiting
This various world with as inconstant wing
As summer winds that creep from flower to flower, --
Like moonbeams that behind some piny mountain shower,
It visits with inconstant glance
Each human heart and countenance;
Like hues and harmonies of evening, --
Like clouds in starlight widely spread, --
Like memory of music fled, --
Like aught that for its grace may be
Dear, and yet dearer for its mystery.
Spirit of Beauty, that dost consecrate
With thine own hues all thou dost shine upon
Of human thought or form, -- where art thou gone?
Why dost thou pass away and leave our state,
This dim vast vale of tears, vacant and desolate?
Ask why the sunlight not for ever
Weaves rainbows o'er yon mountain-river,
Why aught should fail and fade that once is shown,
Why fear and dream and death and birth
Cast on the daylight of this earth
Such gloom, -- why man has such a scope
For love and hate, despondency and hope?
No voice from some sublimer world hath ever
To sage or poet these responses given --
Therefore the names of Demon, Ghost, and Heaven,
Remain the records of their vain endeavour,
Frail spells -- whose uttered charm might not avail to sever,
From all we hear and all we see,
Doubt, chance, and mutability.
Thy light alone -- like mist oe'er the mountains driven,
Or music by the night-wind sent
Through strings of some still instrument,
Or moonlight on a midnight stream,
Gives grace and truth to life's unquiet dream.
Love, Hope, and Self-esteem, like clouds depart
And come, for some uncertain moments lent.
Man were immortal, and omnipotent,
Didst thou, unknown and awful as thou art,
Keep with thy glorious train firm state within his heart.
Thou messgenger of sympathies,
That wax and wane in lovers' eyes --
Thou -- that to human thought art nourishment,
Like darkness to a dying flame!
Depart not as thy shadow came,
Depart not -- lest the grave should be,
Like life and fear, a dark reality.
While yet a boy I sought for ghosts, and sped
Through many a listening chamber, cave and ruin,
And starlight wood, with fearful steps pursuing
Hopes of high talk with the departed dead.
I called on poisonous names with which our youth is fed;
I was not heard -- I saw them not --
When musing deeply on the lot
Of life, at that sweet time when winds are wooing
All vital things that wake to bring
News of birds and blossoming, --
Sudden, thy shadow fell on me;
I shrieked, and clasped my hands in ecstasy!
I vowed that I would dedicate my powers
To thee and thine -- have I not kept the vow?
With beating heart and streaming eyes, even now
I call the phantoms of a thousand hours
Each from his voiceless grave: they have in visioned bowers
Of studious zeal or love's delight
Outwatched with me the envious night --
They know that never joy illumed my brow
Unlinked with hope that thou wouldst free
This world from its dark slavery,
That thou - O awful Loveliness,
Wouldst give whate'er these words cannot express.
The day becomes more solemn and serene
When noon is past -- there is a harmony
In autumn, and a lustre in its sky,
Which through the summer is not heard or seen,
As if it could not be, as if it had not been!
Thus let thy power, which like the truth
Of nature on my passive youth
Descended, to my onward life supply
Its calm -- to one who worships thee,
And every form containing thee,
Whom, Spirit fair, thy spells did bind
To fear himself, and love all human kind.
I died for beauty but was scarce
Adjusted in the tomb,
When one who died for truth was lain
In an adjoining room.
He questioned softly why I failed?
'For beauty,' I replied.
'And I for truth,--the two are one;
We brethren are,' he said.
And so, as kinsmen met a night,
We talked between the rooms,
Until the moss had reached our lips,
And covered up our names.
I died for beauty, but was scarce
Adjusted in the tomb,
When one who died for truth was lain
In an adjoining room.
He questioned softly why I failed?
"For beauty," I replied.
"And I for truth - the two are one;
We brethren are," he said.
And so, as kinsmen met a-night,
We talked between the rooms,
Until the moss had reached our lips,
And covered up our names.
Looking over the fields towards the Sun,
Observing that the rain had just begun,
A freshness seemed to permeate the air,
And all that one could do was, stand and stare,
As something magical crept across the skies,
A vision that was reflected in my eyes.
A sight of infinite beauty, there to see,
One of the wonders given to us, for free.
Lovely colours blending, like a dream,
In subtle hues, an arched rainbow supreme.
©   Ernestine Northover
Know Celia, since thou art so proud,
'Twas I that gave thee thy renown;
Thou hadst, in the forgotten crowd
Of common beauties, liv'd unknown,
Had not my verse exhal'd thy name,
And with it imp'd the wings of fame.
That killing power is none of thine,
I gave it to thy voice, and eyes;
Thy sweets, thy graces, all are mine;
Thou art my star, shin'st in my skies;
Then dart not from thy borrow'd sphere
Lightning on him that fix'd thee there.
Tempt me with such affrights no more,
Lest what I made, I uncreate;
Let fools thy mystic forms adore,
I'll know thee in thy mortal state;
Wise poets that wrapp'd Truth in tales,
Knew her themselves, through all her veils.
It is not Beauty I demand,
A crystal brow, the moon's despair,
Nor the snow's daughter, a white hand,
Nor mermaid's yellow pride of hair.
Tell me not of your starry eyes,
Your lips that seem on roses fed,
Your breasts where Cupid trembling lies,
Nor sleeps for kissing of his bed.
A bloomy pair of vermeil cheeks,
Like Hebe's in her ruddiest hours,
A breath that softer music speaks
Than summer winds a-wooing flowers.
These are but gauds; nay, what are lips?
Coral beneath the ocean-stream,
Whose brink when your adventurer sips
Full oft he perisheth on them.
And what are cheeks but ensigns oft
That wave hot youth to fields of blood?
Did Helen's breast though ne'er so soft,
Do Greece or Ilium any good?
Eyes can with baleful ardor burn,
Poison can breath that erst perfumed,
There's many a white hand holds an urn
With lovers' hearts to dust consumed.
For crystal brows--there's naught within,
They are but empty cells for pride;
He who the Syren's hair would win
Is mostly strangled in the tide.
Give me, instead of beauty's bust,
A tender heart, a loyal mind,
Which with temptation I could trust,
Yet never linked with error find.
One in whose gentle bosom I
Could pour my secret heart of woes.
Like the care-burdened honey-fly
That hides his murmurs in the rose.
My earthly comforter! whose love
So indefeasible might be,
That when my spirit won above
Hers could not stay for sympathy.
There is a power whose inspiration fills
Nature's fair fabric, sun- and star-inwrought,
Like airy dew ere any drop distils,
Like perfume in the laden flower, like aught
Unseen which interfused throughout the whole
Becomes its quickening pulse and principle and soul.
Now when, the drift of old desire renewing,
Warm tides flow northward over valley and field,
When half-forgotten sound and scent are wooing
From their deep-chambered recesses long sealed
Such memories as breathe once more
Of childhood and the happy hues it wore,
Now, with a fervor that has never been
In years gone by, it stirs me to respond, --
Not as a force whose fountains are within
The faculties of the percipient mind,
Subject with them to darkness and decay,
But something absolute, something beyond,
Oft met like tender orbs that seem to peer
From pale horizons, luminous behind
Some fringe of tinted cloud at close of day;
And in this flood of the reviving year,
When to the loiterer by sylvan streams,
Deep in those cares that make Youth loveliest,
Nature in every common aspect seems
To comment on the burden in his breast --
The joys he covets and the dreams he dreams --
One then with all beneath the radiant skies
That laughs with him or sighs,
It courses through the lilac-scented air,
A blessing on the fields, a wonder everywhere.
Spirit of Beauty, whose sweet impulses,
Flung like the rose of dawn across the sea,
Alone can flush the exalted consciousness
With shafts of sensible divinity --
Light of the World, essential loveliness:
Him whom the Muse hath made thy votary
Not from her paths and gentle precepture
Shall vulgar ends engage, nor break the spell
That taught him first to feel thy secret charms
And o'er the earth, obedient to their lure,
Their sweet surprise and endless miracle,
To follow ever with insatiate arms.
On summer afternoons,
When from the blue horizon to the shore,
Casting faint silver pathways like the moon's
Across the Ocean's glassy, mottled floor,
Far clouds uprear their gleaming battlements
Drawn to the crest of some bleak eminence,
When autumn twilight fades on the sere hill
And autumn winds are still;
To watch the East for some emerging sign,
Wintry Capella or the Pleiades
Or that great huntsman with the golden gear;
Ravished in hours like these
Before thy universal shrine
To feel the invoked presence hovering near,
He stands enthusiastic. Star-lit hours
Spent on the roads of wandering solitude
Have set their sober impress on his brow,
And he, with harmonies of wind and wood
And torrent and the tread of mountain showers,
Has mingled many a dedicative vow
That holds him, till thy last delight be known,
Bound in thy service and in thine alone.
I, too, among the visionary throng
Who choose to follow where thy pathway leads,
Have sold my patrimony for a song,
And donned the simple, lowly pilgrim's weeds.
From that first image of beloved walls,
Deep-bowered in umbrage of ancestral trees,
Where earliest thy sweet enchantment falls,
Tingeing a child's fantastic reveries
With radiance so fair it seems to be
Of heavens just lost the lingering evidence
From that first dawn of roseate infancy,
So long beneath thy tender influence
My breast has thrilled. As oft for one brief second
The veil through which those infinite offers beckoned
Has seemed to tremble, letting through
Some swift intolerable view
Of vistas past the sense of mortal seeing,
So oft, as one whose stricken eyes might see
In ferny dells the rustic deity,
I stood, like him, possessed, and all my being,
Flooded an instant with unwonted light,
Quivered with cosmic passion; whether then
On woody pass or glistening mountain-height
I walked in fellowship with winds and clouds,
Whether in cities and the throngs of men,
A curious saunterer through friendly crowds,
Enamored of the glance in passing eyes,
Unuttered salutations, mute replies, --
In every character where light of thine
Has shed on earthly things the hue of things divine
I sought eternal Loveliness, and seeking,
If ever transport crossed my brow bespeaking
Such fire as a prophetic heart might feel
Where simple worship blends in fervent zeal,
It was the faith that only love of thee
Needed in human hearts for Earth to see
Surpassed the vision poets have held dear
Of joy diffused in most communion here;
That whomsoe'er thy visitations warmed,
Lover of thee in all thy rays informed,
Needed no difficulter discipline
To seek his right to happiness within
Than, sensible of Nature's loveliness,
To yield him to the generous impulses
By such a sentiment evoked. The thought,
Bright Spirit, whose illuminings I sought,
That thou unto thy worshipper might be
An all-sufficient law, abode with me,
Importing something more than unsubstantial dreams
To vigils by lone shores and walks by murmuring streams.
Youth's flowers like childhood's fade and are forgot.
Fame twines a tardy crown of yellowing leaves.
How swift were disillusion, were it not
That thou art steadfast where all else deceives!
Solace and Inspiration, Power divine
That by some mystic sympathy of thine,
When least it waits and most hath need of thee,
Can startle the dull spirit suddenly
With grandeur welled from unsuspected springs, --
Long as the light of fulgent evenings,
When from warm showers the pearly shades disband
And sunset opens o'er the humid land,
Shows thy veiled immanence in orient skies, --
Long as pale mist and opalescent dyes
Hung on far isle or vanishing mountain-crest,
Fields of remote enchantment can suggest
So sweet to wander in it matters nought,
They hold no place but in impassioned thought,
Long as one draught from a clear sky may be
A scented luxury;
Be thou my worship, thou my sole desire,
Thy paths my pilgrimage, my sense a lyre
Aeolian for thine every breath to stir;
Oft when her full-blown periods recur,
To see the birth of day's transparent moon
Far from cramped walls may fading afternoon
Find me expectant on some rising lawn;
Often depressed in dewy grass at dawn,
Me, from sweet slumber underneath green boughs,
Ere the stars flee may forest matins rouse,
Afoot when the great sun in amber floods
Pours horizontal through the steaming woods
And windless fumes from early chimneys start
And many a cock-crow cheers the traveller's heart
Eager for aught the coming day afford
In hills untopped and valleys unexplored.
Give me the white road into the world's ends,
Lover of roadside hazard, roadside friends,
Loiterer oft by upland farms to gaze
On ample prospects, lost in glimmering haze
At noon, or where down odorous dales twilit,
Filled with low thundering of the mountain stream,
Over the plain where blue seas border it
The torrid coast-towns gleam.
I have fared too far to turn back now; my breast
Burns with the lust for splendors unrevealed,
Stars of midsummer, clouds out of the west,
Pallid horizons, winds that valley and field
Laden with joy, be ye my refuge still!
What though distress and poverty assail!
Though other voices chide, yours never will.
The grace of a blue sky can never fail.
Powers that my childhood with a spell so sweet,
My youth with visions of such glory nursed,
Ye have beheld, nor ever seen my feet
On any venture set, but 'twas the thirst
For Beauty willed them, yea, whatever be
The faults I wanted wings to rise above;
I am cheered yet to think how steadfastly
I have been loyal to the love of Love!
Beauty is the sensation of your heart skipping a beat,
when eyes full of mischief glance at you...
Beauty is the smile which appears on your lips, when you think of the way he smiles at you...
Beauty is in the heart which touches another
Beauty is tender hands holding each other
Beauty is strong arms holding you warm
Beauty is in water, beauty is in weather,
beauty is in air, beauty is in life
Beauty is in love, beauty is in wind...
Beauty surrounds you days and nights
yet no one knows beauty's heights...
O beauty, passing beauty! Sweetest sweet!
How can thou let me waste my youth in sighs?
I only ask to sit beside thy feet.
Thou knowest I dare not look into thine eyes.
Might I but kiss thy hand! I dare not fold
My arms about thee--scarcely dare to speak.
And nothing seems to me so wild and bold,
As with one kiss to touch thy blessed cheek.
Methinks if I should kiss thee, no control
Within the thrilling brain could keep afloat
The subtle spirit. Even while I spoke,
The bare word "kiss" hath made my inner soul
To tremble like a lute string, ere the note
Hath melted in the silence that it broke.
EXULTING BEAUTY,­phantom of an hour,
Whose magic spells enchain the heart,
Ah! what avails thy fascinating pow'r,
Thy thrilling smile, thy witching art?
Thy lip, where balmy nectar glows;
Thy cheek, where round the damask rose
A thousand nameless Graces move,
Thy mildly speaking azure eyes,
Thy golden hair, where cunning Love
In many a mazy ringlet lies?
Soon as thy radiant form is seen,
Thy native blush, thy timid mien,
Thy hour is past! thy charms are vain!
ILL-NATURE haunts thee with her sallow train,
Mean JEALOUSY deceives thy list'ning ear,
And SLANDER stains thy cheek with many a bitter tear.
In calm retirement form'd to dwell,
NATURE, thy handmaid fair and kind,
For thee, a beauteous garland twin'd;
The vale-nurs'd Lily's downcast bell
Thy modest mien display'd,
The snow-drop, April's meekest child,
With myrtle blossoms undefil'd,
Thy mild and spotless mind pourtray'd;
Dear blushing maid, of cottage birth,
'Twas thine, o'er dewy meads to stray,
While sparkling health, and frolic mirth
Led on thy laughing Day.
Lur'd by the babbling tongue of FAME,
Too soon, insidious FLATT'RY came;
Flush'd VANITY her footsteps led,
To charm thee from thy blest repose,
While Fashion twin'd about thy head
A wreath of wounding woes;
See Dissipation smoothly glide,
Cold Apathy, and puny Pride,
Capricious Fortune, dull, and blind,
O'er splendid Folly throws her veil,
While Envy's meagre tribe assail
Thy gentle form, and spotless mind.
Their spells prevail! no more those eyes
Shoot undulating fires;
On thy wan cheek, the young rose dies,
Thy lip's deep tint expires;
Dark Melancholy chills thy mind;
Thy silent tear reveals thy woe;
TIME strews with thorns thy mazy way,
Where'er thy giddy footsteps stray,
Thy thoughtless heart is doom'd to find
An unrelenting foe.
'Tis thus, the infant Forest flow'r
Bespangled o'er with glitt'ring dew,
At breezy morn's refreshing hour,
Glows with pure tints of varying hue,
Beneath an aged oak's wide spreading shade,
Where no rude winds, or beating storms invade.
Transplanted from its lonely bed,
No more it scatters perfumes round,
No more it rears its gentle head,
Or brightly paints the mossy ground;
For ah! the beauteous bud, too soon,
Scorch'd by the burning eye of day;
Shrinks from the sultry glare of noon,
Droops its enamell'd brow, and blushing, dies away.
Who gave thee, O Beauty!
The keys of this breast,
Too credulous lover
Of blest and unblest?
Say when in lapsed ages
Thee knew I of old;
Or what was the service
For which I was sold?
When first my eyes saw thee,
I found me thy thrall,
By magical drawings,
Sweet tyrant of all!
I drank at thy fountain
False waters of thirst;
Thou intimate stranger,
Thou latest and first!
Thy dangerous glances
Make women of men;
New-born we are melting
Into nature again.
Lavish, lavish promiser,
Nigh persuading gods to err,
Guest of million painted forms
Which in turn thy glory warms,
The frailest leaf, the mossy bark,
The acorn's cup, the raindrop's arc,
The swinging spider's silver line,
The ruby of the drop of wine,
The shining pebble of the pond,
Thou inscribest with a bond
In thy momentary play
Would bankrupt Nature to repay.
Ah! what avails it
To hide or to shun
Whom the Infinite One
Hath granted his throne?
The heaven high over
Is the deep's lover,
The sun and sea
Informed by thee,
Before me run,
And draw me on,
Yet fly me still,
As Fate refuses
To me the heart Fate for me chooses,
Is it that my opulent soul
Was mingled from the generous whole,
Sea valleys and the deep of skies
Furnished several supplies,
And the sands whereof I'm made
Draw me to them self-betrayed?
I turn the proud portfolios
Which hold the grand designs
Of Salvator, of Guercino,
And Piranesi's lines.
I hear the lofty Pæans
Of the masters of the shell,
Who heard the starry music,
And recount the numbers well:
Olympian bards who sung
Divine Ideas below,
Which always find us young,
And always keep us so.
Oft in streets or humblest places
I detect far wandered graces,
Which from Eden wide astray
In lowly homes have lost their way.
Thee gliding through the sea of form,
Like the lightning through the storm,
Somewhat not to be possessed,
Somewhat not to be caressed,
No feet so fleet could ever find,
No perfect form could ever bind.
Thou eternal fugitive
Hovering over all that live,
Quick and skilful to inspire
Sweet extravagant desire,
Starry space and lily bell
Filling with thy roseate smell,
Wilt not give the lips to taste
Of the nectar which thou hast.
All that's good and great with thee
Stands in deep conspiracy.
Thou hast bribed the dark and lonely
To report thy features only,
And the cold and purple morning
Itself with thoughts of thee adorning,
The leafy dell, the city mart,
Equal trophies of thine art,
E'en the flowing azure air
Thou hast touched for my despair,
And if I languish into dreams,
Again I meet the ardent beams.
Queen of things! I dare not die
In Being's deeps past ear and eye,
Lest there I find the same deceiver,
And be the sport of Fate forever.
Dread power, but dear! if God thou be,
Unmake me quite, or give thyself to me.
Is that the only way we can become like Indians, like Rhinoceri,
like Quartz Crystals, like organic farmers, like what we imagine
Adam & Eve to’ve been, caressing each other with trembling limbs
before the Snake of Revolutionary Sex wrapped itself round
The Tree of Knowledge? What would Roque Dalton joke about lately
teeth chattering like a machine gun as he dabated mass tactics
with his Companeros? Necessary to kill the Yanquis with big bomb
Yes but don’t do it by yourself, better consult your mother
to get the Correct Line of Thought, if not consult Rimbaud once he got his leg cut off
or Lenin after his second stroke sending a message thru Mrs Krupskaya
to the rude Georgian, & just before his deathly fit when the Cheka aides
outside
his door looked in coldly assuring him his affairs were in good hands no need to move - What sickness at the
pit of his stomach moved up to
his brain?
What thought Khlebnikov on the hungry train exposing his stomach to the
sun?
Or Mayakovsky before the bullet hit his brain, what sharp propaganda for
action
on the Bureaucratic Battlefield in the Ministry of Collective Agriculture in
Ukraine?
What Slogan for Futurist architects or epic hymn for masses of Communist
Party Card holders in Futurity
on the conduct of the world seeking beauty against Government?
Glory be to God for dappled things --
For skies of couple-colour as a brinded cow;
For rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim;
Fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls; finches' wings;
Landscape plotted |&| pieced -- fold, fallow, |&| plough;
And {'a}ll trades, their gear |&| tackle |&| trim.
All things counter, original, sp{'a}re, strange;
Whatever is fickle, freckl{`e}d, (who knows how?)
With sw{'i}ft, sl{'o}w; sweet, s{'o}ur; ad{'a}zzle, d{'i}m;
He fathers-forth whose beauty is p{'a}st change:
Pr{'a}ise h{'i}m.
Blest be the dawn, the luminous blue-slate,
the arch transfused by the glorious sun,
and blackbirds chanting hymnals in prickly bushes,
and rooks high over fields coughing up love.
Blest be the winds about the furrowed brow,
and the joyful whispers of dying leaves,
the maples staggered blissfully behind barbed fences
above the tombs of the newly redeemed.
Blest be pain that comes like a stark beggar,
the thorn-tree that has its roots in a star,
the sweet massacred gourds tethered to the rusting gate,
the apples heaped on the agonized floor.
Some say beauty is only skin deep, and to some this may apply.
Outward appearance is not real beauty, I'll tell you the reason why.
For true beauty lies within the soul, and comes from the heart.
It comes not from what can be seen of us, but what we may impart.  True beauty is not how we may adorn ourselves, others to impress.
The true beauty of each of us, lies deep within our breast.
If we let Jesus Christ dwell in our heart, and evermore abound.
Peace, Love, and beauty that comes from the Lord, will everywhere be found.
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.
Only your word will heal the injury
To my hurt heart, while yet the wound is clean -
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene.
Upon my word, I tell you faithfully
Through life and after death you are my queen;
For with my death the whole truth shall be seen.
Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;
Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;
Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen.
Cold winds can never freeze, nor thunder sour
The cup of cheer that Beauty draws for me
Out of those Azure heavens and this green earth --
I drink and drink, and thirst the more I see.
To see the dewdrops thrill the blades of grass,
Makes my whole body shake; for here's my choice
Of either sun or shade, and both are green --
A Chaffinch laughs in his melodious voice.
The banks are stormed by Speedwell, that blue flower
So like a little heaven with one star out;
I see an amber lake of buttercups,
And Hawthorn foams the hedges round about.
The old Oak tree looks now so green and young,
That even swallows perch awhile and sing:
This is that time of year, so sweet and warm,
When bats wait not for stars ere they take wing.
As long as I love Beauty I am young,
Am young or old as I love more or less;
When Beauty is not heeded or seems stale,
My life's a cheat, let Death end my distress.
It's unlikely but true -
Your physical attraction
Entertains me
On so many levels.
Your voice as smooth as slate
But subtle - soft and subtle -
And untarnished by locality
Draws my soul.
You utter practical nothings
Statistical representations
Cardboard cut-out numbers
Meaningless drivel;
I want to hear you speak
Of more important things -
Of life and loves and instincts
But am denied.
©2005 Jon Lloyd
She lay safe in my arms
her eyes closed  in sleep,
I gazed  at her beautiful features
to me they are certainly unique.
Her lovely long eye lashes,
her complexion  like a rose,
and that irresistible cute shaped nose.
I bent over to kiss her soft velvet like skin,
the aroma that exuded from her body made
me feel really good within.
I am  a lucky guy to have such a
beauty  lying by my side.
I drifted of to sleep feeling a certain amount of pride.
I was awakened in the night by an almighty yell,
it was my beauty crying like hell.
I jumped up startled, and looked around
And found her dummy lying on the ground.
I'LL gaze no more on her bewitching face,
Since ruin harbours there in every place ;
For my enchanted soul alike she drowns
With calms and tempests of her smiles and frowns.
I’ll love no more those cruel eyes of hers,
Which, pleased or anger’d, still are murderers :
For if she dart, like lightning, through the air
Her beams of wrath, she kills me with despair :
If she behold me with a pleasing eye,
I surfeit with excess of joy, and die.
O, how much more doth beauty beauteous seem
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odour which doth in it live.
The canker blooms have full as deep a dye
As the perfumèd tincture of the roses,
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly
When summer's breath their maskèd buds discloses;
But, for their virtue only is their show,
They live unwooed and unrespected fade,
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so;
Of their sweet deaths are sweetest odours made.
And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
When that shall vade, by verse distills your truth.
The flesh gets beauty, when draped by its skin;
The soul loses beauty, when filled by sin;
The beauty of things is seen when revealed;
The beauty of unseen things is concealed.
Woman! Thy beauty is in concealment;
Nature, thy beauty is the Firmament;
O Man! Thy beauty is by revealing;
Heart, Thy beauty is in deep feeling.
The Grace of God is the dress of the soul!
The Stars, Sun and Moon- the dress of the ‘bowl’! ’
Just as how skin protects the body’s flesh,
Good deeds make a soul beautiful and fresh.
Doing good in life is most important;
Avoiding harm is more significant.
3-1-2000
Bright star of beauty, on whose eyelids sit
A thousand nymph-like and enamour'd Graces,
The Goddesses of Memory and Wit,
Which there in order take their several places;
In whose dear bosom sweet delicious Love
Lays down his quiver, which he once did bear,
Since he that blessed Paradise did prove,
And leaves his mother's lap to sport him there.
Let others strive to entertain with words;
My soul is of a braver metal made;
I hold that vile which vulgar wit affords;
In me's that faith which Time cannot invade.
Let what I praise be still made good by you;
Be you most worthy, whilst I am most true.
Beauty, sweet love, is like the morning dew
Whose short refresh upon the tender green
Cheers for a time but till the Sun doth show,
And straight 'tis gone as it had never been.
Soon doth it fade that makes the fairest flourish;
Short is the glory of the blushing Rose,
The hue which thou so carefully dost nourish
Yet which at length thou must be forc'd to lose.
When thou surcharg'd with burden of thy years
Shalt bend thy wrinkles homeward to the earth,
When Time hath made a passport for thy fears,
Dated in age the Kalends of our death--
But, ah, no more: this hath been often told,
And women grieve to think they must be old.
Snowdrop of dogs, with ear of brownest dye,
Like the last orphan leaf of naked tree
Which shudders in black autumn; though by thee,
Of hearing careless and untutored eye,
Not understood articulate speech of men
Nor marked the artificial mind of books,
-The mortal's voice eternized by the pen,-
Yet hast thou thought and language all unknown
To Babel's scholars; oft intensest looks,
Long scrutiny over some dark-veined stone
Dost thou bestow, learning dead mysteries
Of the world's birth-day, oft in eager tone
With quick-tailed fellows bandiest prompt replies,
Solicitudes canine, four-footed amities.
If Beauty thus be clouded with a frown,
That pity shines no comfort to my bliss,
And vapors of disdain so overfrown,
That my life's light thus wholy darken'd is,
Why should I more molest the world with cries,
The air with sighs, the earth below with tears?
Since I live hateful to those ruthless eyes,
Vexing with untun'd moan her dainty ears;
If I have lov'd her dearer than my breath,
My breath that calls the heav'ns to witness it,
And still must hold her dear till after death;
And if that all this cannot move a whit,
Yet let her say that she hath done me wrong,
To use me thus and know I lov'd so long.
Under the arch of Life, where love and death,
Terror and mystery, guard her shrine, I saw
Beauty enthroned; and though her gaze struck awe,
I drew it in as simply as my breath.
Hers are the eyes which, over and beneath,
The sky and sea bend on thee,—which can draw,
By sea or sky or woman, to one law,
The allotted bondman of her palm and wreath.
This is that Lady Beauty, in whose praise
Thy voice and hand shake still,—long known to thee
By flying hair and fluttering hem,—the beat
Following her daily of thy heart and feet,
How passionately and irretrievably,
In what fond flight, how many ways and days!
It's early autumn
The Fort Worth International Airport
Waiting with her every beauty
In a cowboy country, where
The vast lone star state stands
Around there, somewhere you smiling,
My beloved!
The beauty hidden in a beauty
Part One - The Calling
Let me sleep, for my soul is intoxicated with love and
Let me rest, for my spirit has had its bounty of days and nights;
Light the candles and burn the incense around my bed, and
Scatter leaves of jasmine and roses over my body;
Embalm my hair with frankincense and sprinkle my feet with perfume,
And read what the hand of Death has written on my forehead.
Let me rest in the arms of Slumber, for my open eyes are tired;
Let the silver-stringed lyre quiver and soothe my spirit;
Weave from the harp and lute a veil around my withering heart.
Sing of the past as you behold the dawn of hope in my eyes, for
It's magic meaning is a soft bed upon which my heart rests.
Dry your tears, my friends, and raise your heads as the flowers
Raise their crowns to greet the dawn.
Look at the bride of Death standing like a column of light
Between my bed and the infinite;
Hold your breath and listen with me to the beckoning rustle of
Her white wings.
Come close and bid me farewell; touch my eyes with smiling lips.
Let the children grasp my hands with soft and rosy fingers;
Let the ages place their veined hands upon my head and bless me;
Let the virgins come close and see the shadow of God in my eyes,
And hear the echo of His will racing with my breath.
Part Two - The Ascending
I have passed a mountain peak and my soul is soaring in the
Firmament of complete and unbound freedom;
I am far, far away, my companions, and the clouds are
Hiding the hills from my eyes.
The valleys are becoming flooded with an ocean of silence, and the
Hands of oblivion are engulfing the roads and the houses;
The prairies and fields are disappearing behind a white specter
That looks like the spring cloud, yellow as the candlelight
And red as the twilight.
The songs of the waves and the hymns of the streams
Are scattered, and the voices of the throngs reduced to silence;
And I can hear naught but the music of Eternity
In exact harmony with the spirit's desires.
I am cloaked in full whiteness;
I am in comfort; I am in peace.
Part Three - The Remains
Unwrap me from this white linen shroud and clothe me
With leaves of jasmine and lilies;
Take my body from the ivory casket and let it rest
Upon pillows of orange blossoms.
Lament me not, but sing songs of youth and joy;
Shed not tears upon me, but sing of harvest and the winepress;
Utter no sigh of agony, but draw upon my face with your
Finger the symbol of Love and Joy.
Disturb not the air's tranquility with chanting and requiems,
But let your hearts sing with me the song of Eternal Life;
Mourn me not with apparel of black,
But dress in color and rejoice with me;
Talk not of my departure with sighs in your hearts; close
Your eyes and you will see me with you forevermore.
Place me upon clusters of leaves and
Carry my upon your friendly shoulders and
Walk slowly to the deserted forest.
Take me not to the crowded burying ground lest my slumber
Be disrupted by the rattling of bones and skulls.
Carry me to the cypress woods and dig my grave where violets
And poppies grow not in the other's shadow;
Let my grave be deep so that the flood will not
Carry my bones to the open valley;
Let my grace be wide, so that the twilight shadows
Will come and sit by me.
Take from me all earthly raiment and place me deep in my
Mother Earth; and place me with care upon my mother's breast.
Cover me with soft earth, and let each handful be mixed
With seeds of jasmine, lilies and myrtle; and when they
Grow above me, and thrive on my body's element they will
Breathe the fragrance of my heart into space;
And reveal even to the sun the secret of my peace;
And sail with the breeze and comfort the wayfarer.
Leave me then, friends - leave me and depart on mute feet,
As the silence walks in the deserted valley;
Leave me to God and disperse yourselves slowly, as the almond
And apple blossoms disperse under the vibration of Nisan's breeze.
Go back to the joy of your dwellings and you will find there
That which Death cannot remove from you and me.
Leave with place, for what you see here is far away in meaning
From the earthly world. Leave me.
I am the beauty
The beauty in the summer *the heat*
We ignore it
.
I am the beauty
The beauty in the winter *frozen cold*
We ignore it
.
I am the beauty
The beauty in the fall *dying life*
We ignore it
.
I am the beauty
The beauty in the spring *birth of nature*
We ignore it
.
I am earth
I bare all seasons
And you ignore me
988
The Definition of Beauty is
That Definition is none—
Of Heaven, easing Analysis,
Since Heaven and He are one.
Beauty no other thing is, than a beam
Flash'd out between the middle and extreme.
Krishna passed that mountain many times;
and yet his followers observed that day
that all his mind was filled with fresh delight
as if he'd never walked, nor seen, that way;
the beauty of the mountain ever new,
the moment of its sight, the world reborn;
the mind surprised by what it always knew:
the beauty past all beauty's name and form.
This is true beauty, in ourself revealed:
a sight that's ever fresh, yet ever known;
which eye sees pure, yet mind too oft conceals:
God's unity, in beauty seen; all, One;
The moment's grace of beauty, ours all day;
from outward eye the sight of inward Way.
Brittle beauty, that nature made so frail,
Whereof the gift is small, and short the season;
Flow'ring today, tomorrow apt to fail,
Tickle treasure, abhorrèd of reason;
Dangerous to deal with, vain, of none avail,
Costly in keeping, past not worth two peason;
Slipper in sliding, as is an eelës tail,
Hard to obtain, once gotten, not geason;
Jewel of jeopardy that peril doth assail,
False and untrue, enticèd oft to treason,
Enemy to youth; that most may I bewail.
Ah, bitter sweet, infecting as the poison,
Thou farest as fruit that with the frost is taken,
Today ready ripe, tomorrow all to-shaken.
Don’t go downward
Into dark sunless thoughts;
Don’t remove tenderness
From your plans
Or from your heart;
Don’t be afraid
Of being fragile and child-like
As you wind your way
Through minefields and snares
Along prickly emotional paths
Of the social landscape.
It is impossible to escape
Loneliness and heartbreak,
But you have to celebrate
The immense, poignant beauty
Of your fears, flaws, and mistakes;
You have to relish every avenue
Your human life does take.
I BADE, because the wick and oil are spent
And frozen are the channels of the blood,
My discontented heart to draw content
From beauty that is cast out of a mould
In bronze, or that in dazzling marble appears,
Appears, but when wc have gone is gone again,
Being more indifferent to our solitude
Than 'twere an apparition.  O heart, we are old;
The living beauty is for younger men:
We cannot pay its rribute of wild tears.
There was intoxication in the air;
The wind, keen blowing from across the seas,
O'er leagues of new-ploughed land and heathery leas,
Smelt of wild gorse whose gold flamed everywhere.
And undertone of song pulsed far and near,
The soaring larks filled heaven with ecstasies,
And, like a living clock among the trees,
The shouting cuckoo struck the time of year.
For now the Sun had found the earth once more,
And woke the Sleeping Beauty with a kiss;
Who thrilled with light of love in every pore,
Opened her flower-blue eyes, and looked in his.
Then all things felt life fluttering at their core--
The world shook mystical in lambent bliss.
WHEN from my cheek I lift my veil,
The roses turn with envy pale,
And from their pierced hearts, rich with pain,
Send forth their fragrance like a wail.
Or if perchance one perfumed tress
Be lowered to the wind's caress,
The honeyed hyacinths complain,
And languish in a sweet distress.
And, when I pause, still groves among,
(Such loveliness is mine) a throng
Of nightingales awake and strain
Their souls into a quivering song.
HE that loves a rosy cheek,
Or a coral lip admires,
Or from star-like eyes doth seek
Fuel to maintain his fires:
As old Time makes these decay,
So his flames must waste away.
But a smooth and steadfast mind,
Gentle thoughts and calm desires,
Hearts with equal love combined,
Kindle never-dying fires.
Where these are not, I despise
Lovely cheeks or lips or eyes.
DEAR fellow-artist, why so free
With every sort of company,
With every Jack and Jill?
Choose your companions from the best;
Who draws a bucket with the rest
Soon topples down the hill.
You may, that mirror for a school,
Be passionate, not bountiful
As common beauties may,
Who were not born to keep in trim
With old Ezekiel's cherubim
But those of Beauvarlet.
I know what wages beauty gives,
How hard a life her setvant lives,
Yet praise the winters gone:
There is not a fool can call me friend,
And I may dine at journey's end
With Landor and with Donne.
To what serves mortal beauty ' —dangerous; does set danc-
ing blood—the O-seal-that-so ' feature, flung prouder form
Than Purcell tune lets tread to? ' See: it does this: keeps warm
Men’s wits to the things that are; ' what good means—where a glance
Master more may than gaze, ' gaze out of countenance.
Those lovely lads once, wet-fresh ' windfalls of war’s storm,
How then should Gregory, a father, ' have gleanèd else from swarm-
ed Rome? But God to a nation ' dealt that day’s dear chance.
To man, that needs would worship ' block or barren stone,
Our law says: Love what are ' love’s worthiest, were all known;
World’s loveliest—men’s selves. Self ' flashes off frame and face.
What do then? how meet beauty? ' Merely meet it; own,
Home at heart, heaven’s sweet gift; ' then leave, let that alone.
Yea, wish that though, wish all, ' God’s better beauty, grace.
May I find a woman fair,
And her mind as clear as air,
If her beauty go alone,
'Tis to me as if't were none.
May I find a woman rich,
And not of too high a pitch;
If that pride should cause disdain,
Tell me, lover, where's thy gain?
May I find a woman wise,
And her falseliood not disguise;
Hath she wit as she hath will,
Double arm'd she is to ill.
May I find a woman kind,
And not wavering like the wind:
How should I call that love mine,
When 'tis his, and his, and thine?
May I find a woman true,
There is Bettutv's fairest hue,
There is Beauty, Love, and Wit:
Happy he can compass it.
The bleak of winter leaves me among despair
Thier is only anger and chill in the air
No happiness or laughing
Just grey clouds and bleak white sky
Dont let it all take hold of you for it has a strange beauty within.
A cold beauty
Like a beautiful woman with an empty soul.
In the winter I walk the slushy streets alone
I see the children play
Making angels and happy as if it were May
They seem to love the cold
But oh how this changes when you get old
Winter is still beautiful
In that strange cold way
Everytime it comes around thou
I feel I'm going to fade
Your beauty makes my heart skip a beat...
from the anticipation of when we meet,
Your beauty knows no height,
Your beauty is my delight,
Your beauty is in your eyes...
under the southern skies,
Your beauty is in the smile on your lips,
Your beauty is in the curve of your hips,
Your beauty should be in my arms...
until the morning sun warms
I bought a dishmop--
having no daughter--
for they had twisted
fine ribbons of shining copper
about white twine
and made a tousled head
of it, fastened it
upon a turned ash stick
slender at the neck
straight, tall--
when tied upright
on the brass wallbracket
to be a light for me
and naked
as a girl should seem
to her father.
If you believe in God
God must have made us all
Out of whatever God is
Unless God borrowed something small
From some other God, perhaps a friend of his
Or, he may have had a brother or a sister or two
Though this is unlikely and probably not true
Because it would mean, that he was in that case
Just one of  two or three Gods out there in space
Raising the question of who was there first
Where did the others come from?
Perhaps near Chislelhurst?
And then one could ask, where did the others go?
But that's a very difficult question to answer, you know
Which means in the end  you surely must perceive
If you believe in one God
He is in you and me
For whatever God is
You is a part
(Actually, ... I think, ....he lives in your heart)
Everyone needs a reason to believe.
To believe in God,
their family and friends,
their wife and their life.
Without having a reason,
life could never carry on,
but having a reason to believe
means anything you want,
you can go out and achieve.
(7 October 2007)
If you believe in what you do
you will succeed in it
come today or tomorrow.
Success is always something
everyone else seems to have,
but if you believe in yourself
then you will succeed.
Whether it be money or friends
or whatever you want.
To succeed you must first believe.
31 January 2008
Believe half of what you read in magazines and newspapers for journalists and reporters tend to exaggerate
And don't believe one word that a politician utters for out of lies success they can create
And some people of course are so very gullible and they tend to believe all they hear and read
They do not seem to see through the power hungry who by their ambiguity mislead.
Believe all you read and hear in the media and you won't have opinions of your own
For to bend the truth one might say more than slightly the newsbreakers have become quite well known
The ruling Government give them false information and the truth a thing the legislators fear
And the lies they broadcast are followed by more lies and they only tell us what we wish to hear.
Believe half of what you read in the newspapers that's how it is and it's always been that way
And one lie always leads on to another that's what wise people have been known to say
And many people only want to hear what suits them of which the media magnates seem aware
And falsehoods can keep Governments in office and falsehoods can create a billionaire
Believe in Angels
even if their wings are black
believe in the Devil
even if over his horns
you see a burning halo
Believe in Love that’s blind
and equally blind Hatred
Believe in words sneered by time
believe in Fear
Believe with your eyes and longing palms
pictures filled with colours and magical
Silence
Believe in touch, in music and in voice,
And in Quietness
Believe in thousands of everyday matters
One day just believe
In me
Do not kill dreams you believe in,
Embrace it
Even if some just have gone
Let moments of joy to fill you all
And relish it
Caress your mind by beauty and smile
And live by this every day
Do not murder hope
For something special which will come
Soon
Just believe and smile
And wait a while
And you will have it
You can dance
Like a drunk
In the summer night,
Laugh with strangers
In the moonlight,
Gaze at girls
That walk in the red light,
Say prayers at hillside shrines
To Shinto Deities
That your parents
Never knew.
Everything is a combination
Of misery and poetry.
You have to swim
In a lake of suffering
To reach the shore
Of self-knowledge
About the reason
You’re living for.
I’m living to sing
A tender song at dawn
That will break God’s heart:
I want to make him
Linger here in tears
Until he helps us along
This sad journey
That we’re traveling upon.
I believe in Divinity
And I need for Divinity
To believe in humanity.
Believe in me, believe in a Poet Seer!
Belief as assertion be and as assertion
Power has.
Believe in me, or at least in my heart!
My heart be large and wants to embrace
All!
And yet independence to all
Individual Sovereign Wills
Leave.
What have I done this time,
to deserve your wrath?
What infraction have I violated,
causing this kink in our path?
Where did I go wrong,
I really have to know.
Please tell me what I did,
don't just get up and go.
Don't shut me out again,
don't close every door.
Don't use silence as a weapon,
to justify settling a score.
Please talk to me, I'll listen,
to every word you have to say.
I'm your lover and your friend,
so please don't treat me this way.
Please tell me with words,
what has made you retreat,
into the darkness of solitude,
feeling defeated and beat.
It can't be what you think,
that would mean I had purpose.
Dig deeper for your answers,
don't just scratch on the surface.
Give me the benefit of your doubt,
and choose to trust and believe.
It takes far less energy to love,
than it does to practice to deceive.
2004
The sun will shine on you again,
Your spirit will be lifted from within,
Beyond dark clouds, thunder and rain,
You'll rise up with new strength
To bounce back again.
For you are a somebody
On God's treasured shelf.
Some roads may be rough,
Some hours may be lonely,
Some moments may be painful,
Some tears may be silent,
Some tasks may be heavy,
Some days may be long,
But don't go without a day.
To give your heart a happy song.
Go ahead...believe in yourself.
Believe me, if all those endearing young charms,
Which I gaze on so fondly to-day,
Were to change by to-morrow, and fleet in my arms,
Live fairy-gifts fading away,
Thou wouldst still be adored, as this moment thou art,
Let thy loveliness fade as it will,
And around the dear ruin each wish of my heart
Would entwine itself verdantly still.
It is not while beauty and youth are thine own,
And thy cheeks unprofaned by a tear,
That the fervor and faith of a soul may be known,
To which time will but make thee more dear!
No, the heart that has truly loved never forgets,
But as truly loves on to the close,
As the sunflower turns on her god when he sets
The same look which she turned when he rose!
I've fallen in love very deeply with someone
i guess it just didn't show
'cause he told me he doesn't believe my love
but believe me, it's hard to let go...
I've prayed for him each night before sleeping
but i've never let him know
i'm trying very hard to get over him
but believe me, it's hard to let go...
I've shared my joys, i've shared my sorrows
and best friends we have been though
with each passing day my pain has increased
but believe me, it's hard to let go...
I've even thought of saying goodbye
though out of it he made me grow
and with time going by, i'm dependant i feel
but believe me, it's hard to let go...
I've now got control of my life
still the tears in my eyes continue to flow
i don't know how to live my life wiothout him
but believe me, it's hard to let go...
do you believe that,
you became every thing in my life..
do you believe that,
i care about you and missed you every moment..
do you believe that,
i need and want to be near to you every night..
do you believe that,
i love every one who is like you in face and a voice and a smile...
do you believe that,
i suffer so much in your leaving and never to take a breathe well...
do you believe that,
i afraid from my eyes to show up me that i love you...
do you believe that,
i become jealous from any air goes around your neck...
do you believe that,
i loved you and never loved one as you..
believe me that,
i love you...
Believe Me - God gave us the wisdom to know
Believe Me - His wisdom is far greater than gold
Believe Me - Our Creator knew us before we were born
Believe Me - By grace we are linked to divinity
Believe Me - His divine beings are there for you and me Believe Me - There is one Creator in the universe
Believe Me - He is Father of the human race
Believe Me - When the world proclaims and honors his name
Believe Me - The world will be rich with compassion and fame Believe Me - When our relationship with God is A-1
Believe Me - God told us I take care of my own
Believe Me - I know that I know that I know
Believe Me - Believe me - Believe me
I don't believe in love
I don't believe in fairy tales
I believe in heartbreak
I believe in sad endings
I don't believe in happy endings
I don't believe in dreams
I believe in pain
I believe dreams are for sleeping
Just as the river
flows to the sea
All things will come easy
if they are meant to be
All you have to do is just believe
it does not matter what anyone say
No one's going to rain
on your parade
Some may believe that life has to be hard
but, their belief you can disregard
you don't have to swim up stream
that is how you kill a dream
All you have to do is let it flow
Just believe and let it go
Your dreams child will grow
Just believe in what you know
There is more to life,
everything isn't rife
with pain and suffering, we have a purpose, believe
Its already been Christmas eve,
believe... in something greater!
Believe in the Lord God our Creator
why some ask?
to me its still a simple task
and i have my reason, this joy, new life, and purpose all
the fact that with him i do not fall
Believe for your own sake!
He gives generously, the Lord giveth and taketh away
but I have a speical joy! that no man nor creature may ever take
this joy does not simply last for a day
The Lord has blessed me with his joy, one that i cannot explain
one that no other man could copy or feign
a joy that people search their whole lives for....
trying any human activity, any pleasure anything to find looking i became sore
but now God has graciously given it to me asking almost nothing in return
He just asked me to believe, now i ask you,
that you might believe too
If you read any of my poems you'll see i WAS a suicidal kid
i wanted to take my life and i hid from
it, now i do not want to take my life i love being alive
i beg all of you believe it does not mattter of my good works or a chide
or rebuke of a brother Christianity is not rules!
Faith, Love, and Joy, that is what it is, and a Lord who chases away ghouls
and problems and helps me defeat sin, thats what my faith is!
my life is His
and Because of that pledge i go from suicidal to a feeling i cannot explain
even if i try its so wonderful words do not do it justice
so i simply ask you believe it is not your deeds that save you no ordain
ordained destiny for burn or for salvation no.... it is
John 14: 6 'I am the Way the truth and the light and no one gets to the Father except through me. Jesus declared.' This is why we celebrate Christmas
its for Him! so lets take this time to Believe
I know its not Christmas eve
its Christmas day
do not let this chance fly away
Please i ardently desire you to feel this Joy! God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit
are calling i beg that you answer but if nothing else feel the joy and love
Believe
With the power of my thoughts I summoned you;
With a blink I made you vanish.
On a dark trip your spirit shall wander
and as it gets darker you shall believe in me.
Ungrateful creature, I am your heaven and haven;
Ingratitude is a sin, and sinners live an eternity in hell.
In mazes of confusion your spirit shall wander;
In utter darkness demons of the past shall haunt you;
Of happiness you are incapable
then you shall dwell in misery and isolation.
Have I not tried to befriend you?
Have I not held you and healed you?
But alas, you are just another ungrateful creature;
Reside in darkness and dwell in fear.. I thee curse.
Know me or know me not... I am a collector;
for when you were not looking,
in your core, I planted my seed.
Before you know it,
I shall grow in your soul
like a leafy tree of a hundred years.
I wake in the night and let out a sigh,
And whisper your name and wonder why;
I'm not in your arms, while your holding me tight,
I should be there with you tonight.
Look into your heart and tell me what you see,
When you think of me, is there possibility?
Take me in your arms, and please don't leave;
I'll hold on to you tight, and hope that you believe.
Believe in love, always and forever.
Believe in us, you and I together.
I'm not like other girls, I won't just leave.
When you look into my eyes...Do you believe?
Believe me when I say, for your love, I'll wait forever.
With all my heart, I believe that we belong together.
Believe me when I say, I've given you my heart,
You should've known that from the very start.
Tell me, you believe that my hearts true,
Tell me, you believe that I love you.
Now, answer me one question, before I leave....
Tell me, do you believe?
I believe
I believe in a lot
I believe in music
I believe in writing
I believe in listing
I believe in mankind
I believe in work
I believe in love
I believe in laughing
I believe in paradise
I believe in safety
I believe in light
I believe in entertainment
I believe in history
I believe in time
I believe in survival
I believe in change
I believe in luck
What do you believe in?
To tell the truth...
None of us is promised tomorrow
Live your life as if the last.
Believe
if you think
then you will be
you are what you believe
so believe what you want
and what you want will come true
just believe
just think
make your own fate
forge your own path
carve your own destiny
dont be held back by barriers
your small dreams are your barriers
your doubts are your barriers
dont be held back
anything is possible...
Believe in the purpose
Understand it's meaning
And wait for the results
Believe in yourself
Understand that you can't be perfect
And wait for your reaction
Believe in the truth
Understand the lie
And wait to fit them together
Believe in what you see
Understand what you hear
And wait to judge
It's the process of thinking
Believe and understand
Speak and wait for results
Believe what you believe because what you believe is what you believe. - Joshua Aaron Guillory
Believe your hesitations
Don’t hesitate over your beliefs
You will find your way
The way of Lord whom you pray
(2008/1/23)
Show me that you love me
But do not speak a word
Show me that you long for me
Without a sound being heard
Let your eyes seduce me
Entice me with your stare
Lovingly caress me
Let you hands show you care
Show me that you love me
Let your body language talk
Anyone can speak the words
But can you walk the walk?
Let your passion connect me
To the love your offering tonight
Share your true intentions
Baby, let’s do this right
Show me that you love me
Wear your heart upon your sleeve
Silent without words
Can you make me believe?
Scattered dreams
Dispersed like motes of dust
Came together
Highlighted by shaft of light
A grain of sand brought about
Dust dared to be sand
Sand dared to be brick,
Brick dared to be wall
High above the clouds,
Together they stood up tall
Do not believe, my dearest, when I say
That I no longer love you.
When the tide ebbs do not believe the sea -
It will return anew.
Already I long for you, and passion fills me,
I yield my freedom thus to you once more.
Already the waves return with shouts and glee
To fill again that same belovèd shore.
Do you believe in fairies?
Could fairies really exist?
Do they live in flowers & gardens?
Do they play in the morning mists?
Do they tend to nature
With loving healing care
Do they fly through the forests
Would we see them there?
Are they oh so gentle?
Are they Heaven sent?
Do they fly  with the butterflies
until the day is spent?
Oh I would love to see them
To catch sight of them at play
Dancing around the flowers
just going about their day
BTW-My sister (Eryka)    and I wrote this. I got some ideas from Cassie and her really weird poem. So here it is! ! !
Do you believe in God?
Let the heavens above
Blend the spirits together
Once fallen, no one saved
Do you believe in God?
Let the heavens above
Give us the feeling to live
Once fallen, no one saved
Fire, blood, & water rain on you
Fire, blood, & water rain on you
Don't forget give half the credit to my sister Eyrka. Thanks! ! ! !
I'm down on my knees thanking You
My palms and my eyes facing the sky
You proved to me once again
You were right here with me
Listening to my prayers.
You have sent me signs before
Some call them internal signs
Little do they know of Your existence
When others state that You have died
You are proving to me,
coincidence after coincidence,
that You are listening.
That You will have the whole universe
conspire on my behalf
to satisfy, not just a caprice,
but to only get what I've earned
by investing my soul for months.
I know what to do with this now.
Enlightenment and health is all I'm asking
Not wealth or beauty or career
Enlightenment to make wise choices in life.
When all else fails,
I treasure Your gifts:
my three angels
and You in my heart.
Do you Believe In God?
The question remains
Yes or No?
Say no to save the life
Or yes to take it
But there's a question
In that question
Do you believe in God?
Say yes to pull the trigger
And I will pull the trigger
Please bow your heads in silence
And remeber those last words
Do you believe in God?
She said yes
And pulled the trigger
-Janelle Morehart-
Do you believe in you and me
Do you believe we'll live happily
Forever
Together
Do you believe in love
That will always stand above
Almost anything
And everything
Do you believe in love
I wonder what she thinks right now,
As she sits in the shadows alone,
She has touched a deeper part of me,
A part that is yet unshown.
I wonder if she even knows,
The truth hidden deep inside,
Does she think me the lamb for slaughter,
Or some wolf of howling pride.
Does she care, the feeling, locked so deep
Does she care, her touch, has stopped the weep,
Does she know, her whisper, sparks the flame,
Life moves on, wonder not, I have no name.
Are there truly Angels that live among us,
And if they stood beside us, would we know,
Is there a safe harbour to lay our trust,
A fertile ground to make love grow.
Yet she be an angel if I have ever met,
Though in physical form she be not,
Her gentle caress, my safest bet,
With sweetest touch, my heart she has bought.
A gray haired scraggly looking fellow is all you can see
But I am not what you think I am when looking at me
You cannot look into the thoughts of my mind
Like you I too have a soul and I too can be kind.
A young person in life you have some way to go
And little of others you hardly would know
You seem to dismiss me as a crabbedy old man
But I too can be judgemental believe me I can.
I'm too old for playing mind games those days with me long gone
I feel happy enough just to be living on
Just one more mere mortal who was born to die
None do live forever the facts never lie.
The stuff that I write I cannot hope to sell
I'm just one more ageing poetaster who pens doggerel
I am not what you think I am for looks can deceive
And that too is a fact and facts you should believe.
Girl, do not believe his stories
They are all full of lies
Keep standing up for him
Tears will fall from your eyes
Remove yourself from him
That is what you need to do
He does not really love you
He just thrives on using you
Heart, believe me.
That was just a night...
How fool it is for my mind
to linger his words this way;
to trace every curve of his lips
and to flip a shadow of his pretty hair.
Oh, how fool it is for my mind
to think of him this way.
Heart, believe me.
That was just a night;
and I became a fool forever.
He said he would love me
He said he would always be there for me
He said that he would stay with me forever
How do I believe him
He said that the distance doesn't matter
He said we would be together one day
He said he would never hurt me
How do I believe him
He said love is forever
He said things were really good
He said that I was his everything
How do I believe him
Im so stupid to believe
That you actually liked me
Im so stupid to believe
That you actually wanted to be with me
Im so stupid to believe
All those words you said to me
Im so stupid to believe
That we'd last forever
Im so stupid to believe
That you still had feelings for me
Im so stupid to believe
That you'd actually take me back
And most of all
Im so stupid to believe
That i would never care enough
to be heartbroken again
But here i am
Writing this poem
You never liked me
You never wanted to be with me
We'd never last forever
You'd never take me back
And i'll always be heartbroken!
I believe everyone has an urge to want to believe,
even if they are agnostic or sceptical about God
and in each human being He does create that ability,
where we want to go to someone with our own destiny,
even if a person do only come to a sense of belonging,
where organized systems do make people anxious,
it's to an Upper-Being that everyone does long,
somebody to talk to, who could give protection,
where there is a yearning for someone who do understand,
where we want to come to God without any fear,
to someone that stands between man and dilapidation,
where people want to be free from myths and icons:
do want to know a God, who is sincere with us,
in a world full of pain and darkness.
© Gert Strydom
I believe i am wise enuff 2 amke my own choices
i believe i can speak my mind n nt listen 2 other voices
i believe i am nice enuff 2 forgive n forget
i believe can do thins i wont regret
i believe i am better person that i was las year
i believe i can face all my fears
i believe i am a lot neater cents i ben n AVID
i believe i can break all my bad habbits
i believe i am better that i intended to be
i believe i can do all things through Christ wit Strength in me.(PHILLIPANS 4: 13)
I Believe In America…., we’re a nation of hopes and dreams…..,
Sweet freedom will fill our needs…., I Believe In America.
I Believe In America…., I believe we must fight for peace….,
My faith in us will never cease…., I Believe In America.
With His strength from up above…,
We’ll prevail on our massive quest…,
Our nation breathes kindness and love…..,
We’ll lead our world to happiness.
I Believe In America…, we are united in democracy….,
Defeating evil and hypocrisy…., I Believe In America.
Our Lord is watching every move we make…..,
I know He’ll help us do our best….,
Guiding us with every step we take….,
Because our lives are truly blessed.
I Believe In America…., we’re a nation of hopes and dreams…..,
Sweet freedom will fill our needs…., I Believe In America.
Yes, I Believe In America.
Sometimes at night across the sky.
I see the silver dragons fly.
Although not everyone can see
the dragons dancing gracefully.
My friends think I have lost the plot
but I assure them I have not.
I don’t know why they cannot see
what is so very clear to me.
Perhaps I have an open mind
and they do not, so they are blind.
Moonlight reflecting on their scales.
This is a sight that never fails
to make me stop and realise.
Some cannot see though they have eyes.
They don’t believe the evidence
of their own eyes. It makes no sense.
Because they can’t believe it’s true
and won’t adjust their point of view.
But I believe and I can see
the dragons flying easily.
When twilight falls if you just try,
you too will see them fly
Unless you too, have closed your
mind and don’t believe in dragon kind.
2-Jul-08
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
Riding on the backs of giant snails
Ships with cotton candy sails
Iridescent castles, bubble blown
Mountains made of chocolate scones
Pigs that fly upside down in the sky
The moon at night made of cream pie
Riding through the sky on dragon tails
Sunbathing on the backs of whales
I believe in all these things
Even the lullabies a unicorn sings
i believe in love letters and red roses
but i dont believe in us touching noses
i believe in those cheesy lines from those hollywood flicks
but i dont believe in us stealing kisses on the cheeks
i believe in things such as rules of engagement
but i dont believe in us building firm attachment
i believe in the pair of Mickey and Minnie mouse
but i dont belive in you being my spouse
i believe in sweethearts running on the shore
but i dont believe in us cuddling on the floor
i believe in blind dates and chemistry
but i dont believe in going out with you on the 14th of february
i believe in teddy bears and lipstick stains on the collar
but i dont believe in our relationship would go as far
i believe in carving names on the backyard tree
but i dont believe in the future of you and me
coz we once allowed ourselves to hold on and try
but you lose your grip easily and always turn out to goodbye
all those candy-coated things that love has
perhaps will never be applicable to us
i do have faith on paraphernalias of affection
just like i do have faith on divine intervention
i believe in forever and heartaches too
coz i believe in love but i dont believe in loving you
I believe in rainbows and golden sunbeams
i believe in hopes and dreams
i believe in that old fable always told of old
That at the rainbows end there's a pot of gold
i believe there's some place beyond the blue
Where the promise of Love and Peace is forever true
i believe in me and you
i believe in miracles, for i have known a few
i believe in me and you
i believe in miracles, for i have known a few
i believe in me and you
I believe in having good friends
They keep you up to date
With the latest fashion trends
I believe in telling jokes
I want to laugh regularly
Until I choke
I believe in being serious
There is always an air
Of you being mysterious
Even if there is nothing there
I believe in good sex
It is a good form of exercise
Even though it can be complex
I believe in love
Be it from down below
Or heaven-sent from above
I believe in fate
It is not something you create
It just happens out of the sudden
I believe in luck
But only when it works
When it doesn’t I just mock
I believe in hard work
Not only talk, talk, talk
It is work that earns you the buck
I believe in you
But sometimes do wonder
If all the things you say are true
I believe in good food
Spiced with romance after
To lighten up the mood
I believe in making babies
Then turning them
To gentlemen and ladies
I believe in courage
Strength with sense and not rage
I believe in dreams
But not the ones that make you scream
I believe in God
No ones knowledge and power
Is that vastly broad
And last of all
I believe in me
If I stopped believing
Then life’s wonderful gifts
Would not be worth receiving
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I believe in yesterdays with fine tunes
Where new spring came through in fineness's touch
Where love song were sung 'I love you so much'
And feelings meant all in its afternoons
Sweet summer come back with those pretty things
That filled my longings in its stillness time
With inspirational blossoms in their prime
And still to my heart for always here sings
Rain is now outside and dripping all wet
Filling my emotions with a sullen sky
That never seems ending - day after day
Where are the red flowers my heart once met?
Give me back the dreams of blue darling's sky
Those only are memories - still far away
I believe in your rising and falling
I believe in your smiles and tears
i believe  in your joys and pains
i believe in your seed  and name
i believe in your sunrise and sunset
i believe in your clouds and raindrops
i believe in your moon and galaxy of stars
i believe  in you struggles and hopes
i believe in your desires and angels
i believe in your soil
i believe  in your future
i believe in your generation
'cos i believe in you
I never believed in magic...
until u came into my life;
then all have been magical in my eyes.
I never believed that dreams come true;
till u made them real for me..
then all I see with you is just reality.
I never believed that love could move mountains...
till u moved one for me;
and then i knew that love could set me free.
And i never believed that one could die of a broken heart.
I believe it now- when you left me...
when you left me helplessly.
: -(
I believe
in one who sets me free
I believe
in one who heals me
I believe
in one who comforts me
I believe
in one who gives me joy
I believe
in one who softens my heart
I believe
in one who gives me everything
I believe
in one who leads me
I believe
in one who speaks to me
I believe
in one who gives me life
I believe
in one who shows me mercy
I believe
in one who prays for me
I believe
in one who is wonderful
I believe
in one who died for me
Now who do you believe in?
When I wake up every morn,
Its with the awe of jus being alive
and being with you,
To reach out for that specialness,
Which the almighty has bestowed upon me,
And rouse those around me
to the potential of each new morn.
I am not afraid to admit,
That often, I am less than perfect.
Life is nothing but trial and error,
I believe in my heart
And my powers,
That something great is about to happen.
This keeps the sun - all time shining,
and the Rainbows that  we built together.
With every breath that I take,
Mystery lies deep within.
Your voice resonating,
Like seagulls on the shore.
Your wavy essence washes over me,
Flooding me with emotions.
Tosses me into that special place-
I long to be.
You are the diamonds of my night sky,
You are the sparkling  crystals of grainy  dust,
in the desert of my solitude.
Your serene face draws me to tranquility,
That’s where I long to belong for eternity.
Yes I believe in miracles,
All my avenues and possibilities are open.,
And look with hope to the horizon of  today,
For Today is truly all that I really have.
For the morrow I cannot say.
26-07-2008
1I believe in god
2I believe that there is a fish called cod
3I believe in creation
4I believe in graduation
5I believe in the lord
6I believe that I am bored
7I believe in life after death
8I believe that Shakespeare wrote Macbeth
9I believe in the odd more than even
10I believe in my middle name being Steven
I believe in love
I believe in the Ones high Above
I believe in death
I believe in eternal life, even after my final breath
I believe in being crazy
I believe in you and me
I believe in miracles
I believe anyone can make a difference, even if it's little
I believe that dreams do come true
I believe you can do whatever you set your heart and mind to
I believe that nothing is impossible for God
I believe everyone is great, even people who can't even nod
I believe that I have a purpose in life
I believe that my parents wisdom is as sharp as a knife
I believe in Hell
I believe that Hell is a terrible place, I can tell
I believe in second chances
I believe in magical dances
I believe in my friends and family
I believe that with God, I can see
I believe in the Bible
I believe that It is wonderful
I believe that the Truth will set you free
I believe you can be whoever you want to be
But I don't believe in being perfect, there is no way, no how
You're not even perfect when Jesus is in your life, at least not for now...
'God loved the world so much that he gave his one and only Son. Anyone who believes in him will not die but have eternal life.'
-John 3: 16
I believe in friendship
And love at first sight
I believe in happiness
For which we should fight
I believe in tic-tacs
And rock and roll
I believe in magic
And achieving any goal
I believe in true love
And the right to breathe
But above all things
I believe in you and me
In my heart you are always there
You lead me thru the darkness
Of painful memories
And walk me out into the light again
Where I can see you smiling at me
All it takes is just a word
A gentle touch from your soul
And I believe........
You take away my pain
You make me feel whole again
When I don't know where to turn
I turn around and there you are
You are the moon up in my sky
You are my shining star
You are everything to me
And I believe........
You're love will get me thru
And lead me back home to you
Where all the world just slips away
And my fears you hold at bay
You turn my darkness into light
And keep me strong thru out the night
And I believe........
Without you here with me
I'd be lost forever more
I'd stay locked behind my heart
And throw away the key to that door
You bring peace back to my nights
Because of you my eyes shine bright
And I believe........
Because of you and your love
The way you've helped me to be strong
Helped me to sort out right from wrong
I can take back the night
Make my world turn out right
So my path will lead me back
Straight into your arms at last
To go forward in my life
And let go of my past
Because of you
I believe........
I believe that there are times when no one person is wrong or right.
I believe that there are things in this world that are less important then holding your children tight.
I believe in love that is true.
I believe that all love has it's struggles but we make it through.
I believe that my children and yours are here to do wonderous things.
I believe that we should not hinder them but give them hope and wings.
I believe that God will see me through any storm.
I believe that every disfunctional family is the Norm.
I believe that death will greet us all one day.
I believe that I will not be scared and LIVE along the way.
I believe that life can pass us by unexpectedly.
I believe that some people will let it pass unemotionally.
I believe that there is always a way to get through.
But most of all I believe in Me as well as You.
“I could write the saddest poems tonight”
A stolen verse from the saddest poem I ever read
And think once he was mine
And now that is in the past
That He left my soul destroyed
Now I don’t believe in love
Once I was in love, and it was nice
A consolation prize the memories
Of the sweetest kiss I had received
The day he stole one from me
Only God knows if he loves me once?
I simply have the anguish to figure out
Whether once he loves me or not
The sun sees me and hides from me
I only get thistle from the field
The same field that gave me roses
When I proposed to him
Countless stars on that ebony sky
The only thing that now I have
Meanwhile I’m lost in this fogy land
I’m starting to believe:
That no one ever will love to me
Spanish, Creo
I believe.
I believe that He was born for me.
I believe that He forgave me long ago.
I believe.
I believe that I will grow stronger with each passing day.
I believe that my soul is worthy, of the love that we have, should we pray.
I believe that His spirit is within me.
Lest I should falter or fall,
I believe that He rose again to save,
not only for you but for us all.
I believe that my life is precious,
one worth saving, no matter the cost.
I believe He came to save my soul,
no matter the things that I have lost.
I believe in His love.
I believe in His spirit.
I believe in His grace.
I believe in His holiness.
I believe.
I believe in miracles.
and dreams that will come true.
I believe in tender moments.
I believe in reaching out,
and touching from the heart.
I believe that if we touch,
a gift we can pass on.
I believe that if you cry
your tears are not in vain.
when you're sad and lonely,
others know your pain.
I believe that when we laugh
a sparkle starts to shine,
and I just know that spark will spread
from more hearts than just mine.
I believe the gifts you have,
are there for you to share.
and when you give from the heart,
the whole world knows you care.
I believe that comfort comes
from giving part of me.
and if I share with others,
there's more for all to see.
I believe that love is still
the greatest gift of all.
and when it's given from the heart,
then not one of us will fall.
I believe I shall succeed
I believe I shall be an inspiration
I believe my troubles are temporary
I believe I shall be rich
I believe I shall swell wide
I believe I shall take on the world
I believe I shall speak of wealth
I believe I shall carry sufferers along
I believe I shall show how I made it from nothing
I believe in God
I believe that he is taking me somewhere
I believe that the darkness of today gives way
I believe, I believe, I believe.
His spirit moves across the waters,
His word is knocking on my heart,
His joy rising like the waters,
His endless love is the best part.
I see the cross on Calvary hill,
I see redemption in its shine,
I see his suffering in the turmoil,
I see the truth that made him mine.
The beauty’s real and I can hold it,
The water stretches sky to meet,
The grace of God an endless washing,
The nails piercing hands and feet.
And there’s forgiveness in the beauty,
And as I sit here on this eve,
He is my God and I his daughter
He is my life and I believe.
I believe that the sun shines after the rain
I believe if you don't get hurt you'll never gain
I believe in not doing things the easy way
I believe that being selfish doesn’t pay
I believe in a second chance
I believe in a life long romance
I believe there is life after death
And standing up to a life of mess
I believe in love at first sight
I believe that revenge isn’t right
I believe that first impressions last
And there is nothing better then a good laugh
I believe that dreams do come true
I believe there's destiny for me and you
I believe that good things come to those who wait
I believe love never arrives too late
I believe something good comes from something bad
I believe that for tears of happiness there are tears of sad
I believe everyone has a guardian angel
And the good you do will be rewarded well
I believe sometimes there is no explanation
I believe money can't buy people's affection
I believe you don't know what you've got until it's gone
I believe a new day arrives with every dawn
I believe a smile can be contagious
I believe in being very outrageous
I believe in living with no regrets
I believe that life is as good as it gets
I believe that God watches over us
I believe the little things are worth the fuss
I believe you have each friend for a reason
I believe you will get punished for treason
I believe that what comes first is family
I believe we should all live in harmony
I believe in making the most of a beautiful day
And it's not the end until everything's okay
I believe absence makes the heart grow fonder
I believe you will lose if you sit and wonder
I believe every experience teaches you a lesson
And nothing cures better then a drinking session
I believe everyone has one true love
I believe sometimes we need a little shove
I believe the whole world is a stage
I believe we only get better with age
I believe that to learn you have to live
I believe that to love someone you have to give
I believe one moment can change your life
And there's still help when you’re in strife
I believe everyone has one true friend
I believe love helps a broken heart mend
I believe in the power of a song
And things will change before too long
I believe living is the best experience
I believe in not laughing at other people’s expense
I believe it’s hard to watch a lover leave
And when they’re gone all you can do is breath
I believe to always look on the bright side
I believe that life is just one big ride
I believe when I die people will grieve
But it’s ok because I believe
Lord give me faith and hope cuz Im in need
and my bodies waiting oh so patiently
cuz I believe in you indeed
Is there someone imitating me
bring her back because I'm jealous please
cuz I believe in you indeed
searching deep down trying to find and see
see the life that's right in front of me
cuz I believe in you indeed
find that person that I want to be
find her deep down way inside of me
cuz I believe in you indeed
doesn't take a miracle you'll see
there's that sweet person inside of me just waiting
cuz I believe in you indeed
who's the person that I claim to be
a mere glimpse of the past of me
cuz I believe in you indeed
All night all day I have been thinking this way
Then I hear my thoughts in your lyrics today
Faith we have when two hearts can perceive
In love like this, how can we not believe
I don’t know what to do with out you …. But
I believe that you will guide me to finish my work
I believe that you will take me back to my home
I believe if I hurt you then you will forgive me
I believe you will sweet like my sugar candy
I don’t know what to do with out you …. But
I believe that u will light my dark nights by ur moon
I believe u will relief my thirsty by ur rain
I believe u will send me ur sun when I need him
I believe u will always flow ur cool wind that I can take breath
I don’t know what to do with out you …. But
I believe u will always watching me from ur place
I believe u will lift up me when I will fall down
I believe  u will make me that strong that I can lift up other
I believe u help me to let know other that u are with me
i hold this piture in my time of sorrow,
death is walking aamounst my heart,
ripping,
taring,
till my life falls apart,
remorts of shame,
scar through pain,
the little emo girl to take the blame,
love is to death,
leaveing this life is the only thing i have left,
she dug a hole in my paper heart,
cutting hopes and dream,
ripping them apart,
how much more of this can i take,
till i fall down on the floor and break,
i remeber the very first time,
inside my mind,
i felt comforted like i had a sence of meaning,
love and hate,
deeath in debait,
holding my razor,
till the sorrow shall left,
i cant believe its back again from the place i had left,
remembering death,
my dreams are night marees,
slowly killing some,
for this i write to you,
my mom
I Can't Believe
'I can't believe'
I can't believe, I can't believe
this is so not happen to me
everything in my world is dark
and never gray
i could ask for help
but we all know
help never finds its way
only power and money
can do as they please
so i ask why is this
so happen to me
will the greedy
and the bad
some day go to hell
or will the evil ones
find a way to pay
their way out of
going to sinners jail
I can't believe~
I can't believe  that you're single
Your personality blooms like a flower
And your face is so beautiful
That you cause mirrors to grow legs
Just so that they can be a reflection of you
did they really think they could just take it all away
with just one word
did they think I would not fight
do they really think I gave a shit what they thought?
can they really be that stupid
do they really want me to be unhappy for the rest of my life?
cause that is what would happen if I listen to them
I can't believe it
I’ve suffered for 4 years
I now found happiness
do they think I wouldn't fight to keep it
how could they think that?
are they really that blind
do they not see I’m happier than I’ve ever been
truth is I’ve never been happy
until now
and I don't want to lose it
especial because they don't like the way I found it
can't they just be happy?
can't they just let me be happy?
apparently not
some family
they don't want me happy
they fucking want me trapped
trapped in the darkness
trapped with them
trapped is a state of numbness
How could you do that to me?
I can't believe you..........
How could you say that to me?
I can't believe you.............
How could you look at me like that?
I can't believe you..............
How could you make me cry like that?
I can't believe you.............
How could you make me feel so loved?
I can't believe you.............
Again my car is back to the mechanic,
To see what is wrong once more,
Will he rip me off and begin to laugh?
As I’m making my way out the door?
The teacher who's handling thirty students,
Robert’s still failing and unlikely to pass,
This time will she listen to God's word?
And do her part tutoring him after class?
If you found an Indian head nickel,
Laying on God's beautiful green earth,
Judging by your skin at a coin collector’s,
Would you still receive what's it's worth?
More often than not in our lifetime,
A fair shake we will not receive,
It really doesn’t matter what the reason,
Only that someone is going to deceive.
The adulteress was brought to Jesus,
Caught in the act she had to be stoned,
Let him among you is without sin do it,
In the end she was left standing alone.
We can’t be caught up with how others treat,
Be sure the road’s straight in placing your feet,
Let misguided feelings constantly linger on,
You’ll become the one who is in the wrong.
While we were warming up in rehearsal,
A half hour before the radio broadcast,
Mrs. Lowe criticizes our choir on a song,
They had just sung it way too fast.
Saying, we're not going to do this song,
Sounds like you're singing out of a trunk,
With a stern look in her eye Debbie say’s,
'I Don't Believe In Giving God Junk'.
What’s wrong with you people today choir?
You don’t drink so you cannot be drunk,
That song sounded so bad if it was a smell,
I would have to say you are a Skunk.
Shake off whatever is stuck in your mind,
Just kick it in the butt and leave it behind,
We’re singing in praise to our Lord & Savior,
I will not stand for this kind of behavior.
Sharpen up those voices and clear your throat,
I refuse to be held by you as a scapegoat,
Pay close attention because I want all to know,
Don’t ever bring that jack near Debbie Lowe.
w/Jeff Ricky Cheeks
I don't believe it,
But it's true.
Seems like a bad dream,
But it's real.
A child's body burnt.
A spouse's limbs
Scattered all over.
People jumping out of windows.
Screams heard because
Of a great ball of fire.
I don't believe it,
But it's true.
Seems like a bad dream,
But it's real.
I don’t believe you
When you say you care
I don’t believe you
When you say you’ll be there
I don’t believe you
When you say I should live
Why would you want me
When I have nothing to give
I just can’t believe
You want me in your life
Some messed up little girl
Who cuts herself with a knife
I don’t believe you
When you say you care
I don’t believe you
Or that you’ll be there.
music blasted in the air.
birds are flyin every where.
can you feel the love tonight
or is it just in my sight?
she loves me..
ohh.. yes she does..
can the moon not be brighter to match that smile on her face.
could the sun dim just a bit so i can look up and look back at her and say damn your hot.
she is my world.
nothing can compare to how im feeling.
this is just the way i wanna tell her.
i love her.
if only she knew.
i would write my heart out to her.
i would sing her a song.
i would tell her stories.
i would look her in the eyes and say,
babe i love you.
if only she believe the words coming out of my mouth.
she would know,
im lost in her eyes,
i wont find my way out.
im lost in her world,
i gotta stay somehow.
i love her.
if only she knew.
if only she believed.
i love her.
If you believe that black is white
Do you know that you'd never be right
If you believe that short is long
Do you know that you'd always be wrong
If you believe that left is right
You might give yourself a great big fright
If you believe that front is back
You might give yourself a heart attack
If you believe that in is in fact out
You'd spend all your life living in doubt
If you believe that up is really down
You'd probably wear a puzzled frown
If you believe with all of your heart
That there is only one way you could possibly start
The day, with a lungful of tobacco smoke
Do you know you'd be part of a very sad joke?
If you believe you will receive, the greatest gift of all
you can conquer highest mountain tops,
they will look very small If You Believe . . .  The dark cloud hanging on the day,
will very quickly pass away If You Believe . . .  Problems surmount in all degrees,
but you can discharge it as you please If You Believe . . . Reality helps pave the way,
to lighten burdens sent each day If You Believe . . . The rising sun, the evening moon, denotes a message too,
that all above can be resolved, it just depends on you If You Believe . . .
then,
you will point to me where my hidden mole continues to grow,
where is my
secret wart that nobody has ever seen
then, you will love the scent of my armpit unwashed for
ten days and you will sleep soundly on my
arms
then you will like my callous hands rough to your lovely face,
you will clean my teeth with the licking tongue of yours,
you will love to breathe my breathe though i have not brushed
for days,
you will love everything in me
everything foul and even dirty, and you still love to be caressed by my bare hands
even if these hands too touched
another body last night when you were there patiently waiting
when i did not come on time
when you were sleeping
and your tears dried
on a loveless mattress on a bed where the sheets are not crumpled
where i may say that i
have never for once ever loved you
i have tried blocking my ears
while he called you things you were not,
but the epithets were heart-rending
i have tried looking away
while he beat you up
but your doleful screams of help
held me back
i have tried calling 10111
but the line just went dead
i have tried defending you
but my arms just went numb
i have tried callind 10177
but they were out of ambulances
i have tried calling your neighbour, too
but he went fishing that day
and the lads across the street
they went boozing
i have tried reasoning with him
but he called me an outsider
your sister was in labour
your mother lay sick abed
your brother ducking and diving in Darfur
your father partying at club Numbers
so i locked myself in my room
hoping that God's mercy would intervene
and now as i stand above
your lifeless body bathed in blood
i curse myself for my helplessness
but believe me, i have tried!
I now understand but still I can't believe,
the things I hear or see
I jus don't know what to do,
the things I hear and see
my eyes still won't let my heart believe,
I've opened up but I now I think I should close her down,
she can't go threw anymore pain...
I now understand but still I can't believe,
that everything I've been threw
and u really don't care about me
I jus don't know why are u here if ur not here for me,
maybe its jus to toy with me heart and see how much it bleeds
I've been throw to much to jus let u run all over my heart like that....
I now understand but still can't believe,
why no how could u do this to me
I've given u my all and this is how u say thanks
by crushing my heart and soul,
by leaving them to bleed so that some other person can't save them...
I now understand but still can't believe,
that it was never only me....it was she..her but never we........
I want – I wish to believe
The old tale’s – the ballad’s words,
How the sunny knight cuts
The monsters nine heads off…
Just at one stroke of his sword!
I stand just inches away from you but
i feel like i am half way around the world from you
and i can't get any closer to you
@ that moment i run my hand through your hair
In life i've battled through obstacles and huurls
but i dont care i will tell you til my face is blue
i'll fight anything for you, i'm sorry i thought you knew
even if the pain is too much to bare
i've been with a lot of gurls
but none of them compare to you
if you ever doubt how much i love you
let me tell you this i wont promise i will love you for the rest of your life
but i can love you for the rest of mine & i can promise i will try to make you happy to the best of my abilities
Angellica, i love you more than life itself. believe me i'll love you until time stands still. just believe it.
j.v.boyd
In  our todays  yesterday looms large
The present isn’t the past;
In other words, the past is still omnipresent
Steering sometimes unskillfully like a barge
Sometimes disaster looms
Unannounced, uncalled for;
A wreck that lies on a shore.
The saddest of songs and the most ancient of wrongs
Can bring on the tears;
We are all equal before our fears.
Today has the faint tinge of bitterness
Tomorrow will come, with the steepest of slopes
To climb, to pause, to think
That you can stumble on the brink:
Just believe that in life, something is taken
Something is given
All is forgiven: tomorrow will come
That the gift of words that you have
Will remain articulate: you will inspire
Like the tallest of spires
Your words will remain in many hearts
Just believe, you are not forgotten
Not by man or deity or life begotten
Words of consequence and comfort
And love and life will come back again.
Sometimes I live in
my own little world of make believe.
Where the character in my stories
do the things, I wish I could.
They live out my fantasies some good some bad.
I am every character come what may.
They take me away from the real world that we live in.
Into the land of my dreams
into my own little world of make believe.
28 May 2008
Life is full of make believe,
dreams of earnest topping fame.
Gilded Lilies spring up everywhere
as if in some dark nightmare.
We look with weary eyes
at temples we want to climb.
The shrines we want to spell out our name,
but with heavy sighs, we heave,
knowing our dreams are but make believe.
Each hill we climb
brings us closer,
to our vacant dreams departed.
Still we strive towards them,
hoping one day to catch a glimpse,
of what our heart wants most,
the dreams that will not fade,
in the hollow halls,
of the land of make believe.
She is Beyond
Good and Evil now
living in a world
of fantasy
where she cannot see
what reality
is telling her
In her make-believe world
there are only
her fundamentalist church
her literal Biblical belief
and her saintly self
figting in victory
against everybody else
because they refuse
to give up
the demons
only she
can see
They ate from the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge in the Garden of Eden, but God forgot to plant the Tree of Wisdom, and we have been struggling ever since.
Only believe
That Jesus can save.
Only believe
The Promise he gave.
A home in heaven
Is waiting for you.
A home in heaven,
Believe, it is true.
Jesus has died
To save you from sin.
Jesus has died
That you may come in.
Believing in Christ
You'll help spread the news.
Believing in Christ
You'll change peoples views.
Believing you'll work
To save some each day.
Believing you'll work,
And meet Him one day.
Give thanks to Him
For all that He's done.
Give thanks To Him
In prayer everyone.
Who will believe my verse in time to come
If it were filled with your most high deserts?
Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
Which hides your life, and shows not half your parts:
If I could write the beauty of your eyes,
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
The age to come would say, "This poet lies,
Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces."
So should my papers, yellowed with their age,
Be scorned like old men of less truth than tongue,
And your true rights be termed a poet's rage,
And stretchèd metre of an antique song.
But were some child of yours alive that time,
You should live twice, in it and in my rhyme.
Oh, let me not believe in any man,
For men are undependable creatures;
'Tis God who gives each man life's unique span;
So, let me not believe in false preachers.
Oh, let me put my trust in God all life;
His love for man has no limits, I know;
And let my love for God increase in strife;
To my Redeemer, huge a debt, I owe.
Oh, let me not believe in earth's Masters;
They are as sinful as everyone else;
Let me avoid the gullible Pastors;
They are like poison- flowers with sweet smells!
Let me have faith in God alone always;
Let me in prayers pass my earthly days.
You think that I just love to mope,
To mope, despond, cry & grieve.
But I see just you as my hope,
I trust you – yet do not believe.
You tell me a regular story –
Too fabulous for to perceive,
Too fabulous for me, I’m sorry…
I trust you but cannot believe.
Though I cannot call you a liar
Per se I expect you to leave
In doubts my soul, my fen-fire,
I trust you but hardly believe.
I used to rise then break in flinders,
I wear my heart on my sleeve.
Is it your or my flame that cinders?
I trust you but should I believe?
A hedgehog am I – cut my stickers
For waves in my hot chest to heave
So calm while my butterfly flickers,
I trust you and want to believe!
To believe this thing isn't perfect is to believe it never was perfect! And to believe it never was perfect or is perfect is to believe it never could be, will be, would be, and to some degree, should be! Believe in the perfection of life! Peace, love, joy, goodness, grace, tender-mercy etc. Life, Peace, Nature, You, Me, All is and or are perfect forever! Health and or the universe is perfect! You know peace because you experience peace and are peace! What you discover you are, what you are you discover and or know already to be true! same is true with finding! and love! Peace is everything! Everything is peace! To believe that it isn't or never was perfect but that it will be perfect is to believe in something other than nature and or to believe deceptively or double-mindedly in the truth! It is to fall away from nature relatively and or absolutely! What is new is truly old! What is truly old is new! What is truly new is old! What is truly old is new.. forever! Life is, was, should be, will continue to be perfect forever! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
To not believe this thing is perfect is to believe it never was perfect! And to not believe it was perfect or is perfect is to believe it never could be, will be, would be, and to some degree, should be perfect! Believe in the perfection of life! Peace, love, joy, goodness, grace, tender-mercy etc. Life, Peace, Nature, You, Me, All is and are perfect forever! Health and or the universe is perfect! You know peace because you experience peace and are peace! What you discover you are, what you are you discover and or know already to be true! same is true with finding! and love! Peace is everything! Everything is peace! To believe that it isn't or never was perfect but that it will be perfect is to believe in something other than nature and or to believe deceptively or double-mindedly in the truth! It is to fall away from nature relatively and or absolutely! What is new is truly old! What is truly old is new! forever! Life is perfect, it is [was] and should be forever! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
What do you believe in, when you wake up to the dawn?
What do you believe in, when you hear a birds gift of song?
What do you hope for, when all hope is lost?
What do you believe in, and what now was the cost?
What do you dream of, when the world tells you, 'you've failed? '
What treasures do you search for, if only to fill some empty pails?
What will you leave for time, but mans garbage and endtrails?
What should one seek after, when all else is gone?
What did God show man in Proverbs,
and from the nails placed into His palms?
What was the meaning of the words, this Man of God did speak?
What were the Commandments for, if man refuses them to keep?
What will the end be, for it will come in the twinkling of an eye?
When will the world hear of God, in the 'Sweet by and by? '
It is a natural fact of life that we human beings believe in
one thing or another – either tangible or intangible
The belief system of individual is sometimes determined by
parental heritage, place of birth, religion and societal values
We all grow up believing in many things our parents believe in
By the time we finish high school, our belief system transforms
The transformation occurs through our perception of the society
as influenced by our daily contact with classmates and neighbors
By the time we graduate from colleges and universities
Our belief system metamorphosed to a new level
through our interactions and relationships with the society
What do you really believe?
It is a known fact that many people believe in a Supreme Being
Different names are attributed to this Supreme Being
The name varies from one geographical location to another
The name also differs from one religion to another
To several people, the Supreme Being in known as God
To many mystics, the Supreme Being is called Universal Intelligence
What do you really believe?
Numerous people believe it is allright to eat all kinds of foods
While some believe it is wrong to eat animals and animal products
These people called vegans say that all animals are our friends
Therefore, nobody has the right to slaughter their friends for food
What do you really believe?
Almost everybody believe in the power of money
to solve all their problems and end their difficulties
Some say, even if money cannot make you happy
at least, money will give you peace of mind
What do you really believe?
It is true that what we believe influences our overall perception
Our belief system affects our approach to work ethics
Our belief system shapes our attitude to friends and neighbors
It is right time to search your conscience and ask yourself
What do I really believe?
Whatever may be your beliefs, please enjoy yourself
because you may never pass this road again.
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing?
When I say you have the most handsome face?
Why don’t believe me when I tell you I dream of it?
When I say its your lines, with my finger, I trace?
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing?
When I say your smile lights up my day?
Why don’t you believe me when I tell you its sexy?
When I tell you how you smile my troubles away?
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing?
When I say you have the goldenest hair?
Why don’t you believe me when I tell you it warms me?
When I say how I sit and stare?
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing?
When I say you have the softest skin?
Why don’t you believe me when I try to describe it?
When I don’t even know where to begin?
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing?
When I genuinely tell you I love you?
Why don’t you believe me when I tell you I need you?
When I say this is all so new?
Why don’t you believe me when I say you’re amazing?
Why do you suggest I lie?
I hope you’ll soon believe me when I say you’re amazing,
because I’ll say it till the day I die.
If I speak of love, it is because love speaks
To me, like we are having this conversation
About love itself, and I ask love that if I speak
Of love, will love believe me?
And love sighed, and finds this question
Too self-serving for itself, for love could
Be biased too, telling me that if I speak
Of her, she will believe me, oh, that would
Be too unnecessary of love, to speak about itself,
For love to believe in love from love itself
Who is asking about love,
About me and telling me, she will believe me,
In fact, this would be too confusing, too confusing,
But I speak of her today, and I speak of myself
Too, believing about this love of mine,
And so confused we see each other eye to eye,
The eye of love to my eye of true love,
Talking heart to a true heart,
The heart of love talking to the heart of true love,
and finally, though confused, and still taking breaths,
love, she finally,
Said, yes, love believes me, love believes my love,
love speaks of love, love believes in love,
In my love, and there is no other. Love begets love.
That is what human history had always told to itself.
Christ is coming again to bring Judgment on the unruly and defiant,
But He's given Grace to all who believe The Word and don't deny it.
God will continue to show Mercy to Believers, who won't be denied,
But His Grace which He's displayed this age will be soon put aside.
Then God's Wrath will be poured on those, by whom Christ was denied,
And when He comes they'll cry for the rocks to fall on them to hide.
This will be during Jacob's Trouble, which is also The Tribulation,
Not only will God Judge Israel, but each and every wicked nation.
Although it's a time of Judgment as people seek Satan's exaltation,
God will have witnesses present at this time imparting His Salvation.
Now with the Age of Grace over, many Believers will face martyrdom,
But Christ will say to them this is My Kingdom in which you can come.
As for the men left on the earth, as they continue working in pairs,
One will be taken in God's Judgment, while the other one is spared.
With the increase of wickedness because man's heart is so depraved,
Unless those days are shortened, no flesh on the earth will be saved.
The Tribulation will be the darkest time ever experienced on earth,
And the only sure way to avoid it is through God's spiritual rebirth.
Friend the days are getting darker and Satan only wants to deceive,
With the Age of Grace still upon us, won't you take time to believe?
(Copyright © 04/2003)
You don't believe -- I won't attempt to make ye:
You are asleep -- I won't attempt to wake ye.
Sleep on! sleep on! while in your pleasant dreams
Of Reason you may drink of Life's clear streams.
Reason and Newton, they are quite two things;
For so the swallow and the sparrow sings.
Reason says `Miracle': Newton says `Doubt.'
Aye! that's the way to make all Nature out.
`Doubt, doubt, and don't believe without experiment':
That is the very thing that Jesus meant,
When He said `Only believe! believe and try!
Try, try, and never mind the reason why!'
Four elements, fire, earth, air and water,
Each on the calendar takes a quarter.
Fire and water together do not mix,
Fire always needs air, for that is its fix.
Earth, air and water that is a trio.
In what section would we find our Leo.
Horoscopes are some peoples obsession,
All the forecasts would give one depression.
You may believe them or you may not,
But quite frankly, I do not care a jot.
I’m an Aries and I’m a fiery one.
A Ram, well Ewe, when all is said and done.
Whatever prediction, for good or ill,
Will on a few occasions fit the bill.
Astrology will continue to lure,
All who feel readings can foretell  ‘Amour’.
©   Ernestine Northover
Comfortable, oh yes comfortable
but how to explain
the other things
the warnings
that there were to be
others like and not like me
that I was not the only one;
even if I would be the light
of all their hopes, they who
will lean over me with
my light on their eyes
and strange human sounds
and there were promises to be made with
the warnings: that
I’d forget all this
and would have to, must
remember with such help
as I might have; so
three solemn promises,
to try to remember
where I come from,
which I need to return to,
and also why; for there may be
little help in this from them
strange, that all this
which is born into me
and which my first smile
tells those who will lean over me,
how could I forget
all this? No wonder
some turn back;
it’s braver, more courageous,
more loving, more adventurous,
than any of you remember,
to be born
so wish me luck of it
She'll love you 'til her dying day,
and just to prove it
she'll take it out regularly on her Mom,
frequently on her sisters,
and later, sometimes on her partner.
You got yourself a deal.
SAINT THYAGARAJA
BRIEF INTRODUCTION
The Saint Thyagaraja was born on the 4th May,1767
at Tiruvarur, Tanjore District, South India. He came to
lead the mankind in the spiritual path through the medium
of Classical Music, purely devoted to Lord Rama.  He had
composed classical songs in thousands during his life time,
which are still very popular through out the world.
During the period of Vijayanagar Empire in the Central India,
which broke down due to frequent invasions from the North
India, his ancestors took asylum in the Kingdom ruled by
Maratha Nayak in South India. With this brief introduction
his life story follows:
SAINT THYAGARAJA
(04-05-1767 to 06-01-1847)
The year seventeen-sixty-seven,
Witnessed the divine sanction
From the Merciful Heaven
For a great saint, who was born.
It was on the fourth day,
In the month of May,
This saint took his birth
On this mundane earth.
The Temple Town Tiruvarur,
Of the District Thanjavur,
Became the chosen land,
To welcome this child.
True to their own custom
He was given the name
Thyagaraja, the Lord
Of this Temple God.
‘Thyaga, ’ a word for ‘sacrifice’
‘Raja’ for ‘King or Prince, ’
Thyagaraja, as his name stood,
Lived in austerity till his end.
He was the third son,
The most illustrious one,
Of Ramabrahmam, his father,
And Seethamma, his mother.
The King of Thanjavur
Patronized his father,
A story teller by profession,
And an exponent of Ramayan.
As a daughter of a Veena player,
Kalahastayya, a royal court performer,
Music was in Seethamma's blood
And he grew up in this background.
(Thanjavur, a place in South India)
SWAMI VIVEKANANDA (A brief introduction)
Swami Vivekananda (Narendranath Datta)    was born on 12-01-1863 at Kolkata and died on 04-07-1902 at 39 years of age.  He was a disciple of Guru Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, who worshiped Mother Kali. Swamiji was the first religious ambassador to America, in which land he was recognized for his talents and deep knowledge in the Hindu ancient scriptures and religion.  He was advocating for Universal Religion.  Every world citizen should read his speeches in 9 Volumes released by the Ramakrishna Mission Association..   His life story starts with the Birth of Hinduism.
THE BIRTH OF HINDUISM
When did Hinduism begin?
Still, the exact date is unknown.
It’s such an ancient religion,
Grown on a solid foundation.
It’s a religion of tolerance,
And with all its patience,
It respects other religions,
For their religious doctrines.
In Bhagavad-gita Krishna says
“There may be many ways,
But all the paths lead to me,
Whatever path it may be.”
Religion is the backbone
Of national life of Indian,
And was nurtured by Great Sages
From time immemorial, of all ages.
At every time of spiritual crisis,
In this Indian soil, there arose
An Ascetic, a Sage, or a Saint,
From the danger, to protect it.
Rama, Krishna, Buddha,
Adi Sankara, Nanak, Chaitanya,
Like this, came messengers, one by one,
All of them sent by the Heaven.
Names many, there may be,
But the Hindus ever see
God as one Supreme,
Not many, but as same.
A man is not only a father,
But also a son to his father,
A teacher, when he teaches,
A customer, when he buys.
He’s a seller, when he sells.
A preacher, when he tells.
When he sails, he’s a sailor.
When he stitches, he’s a tailor.
As a King, he’s a ruler,
As a mendicant, a beggar,
When he wins, a winner,
When he sins, a sinner.
This one man, who’s the same
Takes up many karmic names,
Thus, Gods many have come
But they’re one and the same.
Brahma is the creator,
Vishnu is the protector,
Siva is the destroyer,
*Karmic names, they bear.
(*Karmic = action)
Just like one Sun reflects,
And shines in all reflectors,
God is one, but projects,
All o’er, as various objects.
A compendium of Truths,
The Hinduism gave as Vedas,
Which lead one to the goal,
That is sacred and spiritual.
This is the salient truth
That exists from its birth,
Which had no beginning,
Nor will it have an ending.
(Born on 12-1-1863)
The Land of Bengal is famous
For all kinds of noble causes,
Affecting social, political, religious,
Arts, cultural and trade interests.
In all these fields, there arose
Great many reformers, leaders,
Artists, poets, entrepreneurs,
As the top most sons of its soils.
As the heart of Indian Nation,
It rose up to all the occasions,
With its mighty contributions,
In the nation building functions.
Its abundant natural resources,
The perennial flow of rivers,
The deep sea coastal borders,
They added to its rich treasures.
As God’s gift, this mother soil
Gave birth to a great soul,
Narendranath Datta by name,
Later Vivekananda, he became.
In the year eighteen sixty three,
On the twelfth day of January,
He was born at Calcutta,
Now known as Kolkata.
Bhuvaneswari Devi, his mother,
Viswanath Datta, his father,
Both were proud of this son
For his nature more divine.
Lord Siva of Varanasi came,
Once in his mother’s dream,
Granting her wishful boon,
“I’ll be your son soon.”
True to her dream, her son
Proved himself more divine
In his every word and action,
That enhanced his reputation.
Who know thee, love: thy life be such
That, ere the year be o'er,
Each one who loves thee now so much,
Even God, may love thee more!
oh! wake up my lovely princess,
allow the sun to rise for you,
and sprinkle its golden rays,
with all its effulgence in, bright
golden hue and sparkle! .
let flowers of all hues and colors,
size, shape, layers and fragrance,
jasmine, rose, lilies, lotus, dahlia,
iris, tulips and daffodils vie each
other to decorate your lovely
hair in plates, layers and multi
layers, and  let the sheen in your
eyes brighten up the beauty of
the jewels and silks you  wear
and let the fragrance of lowers
enhance your mood fly high and
spread joy and happiness for
you, family and friends and let
me hold your hands and wish
a happy and joyful birthday! .
-o0o-
The Child is rocked on Mary's knee,
Cold in the stall this bitter night,
And 'Lullalay-loo,' soft singeth she,
'My little Boy and Heaven's Delight!'
When singing stars went up the sky
The Prince of Peace oped a sweet eye.
His Highness now how small He lies!
He to be God and Very God!
A Jacob's ladder spans the skies
Whereof each rung is angel-trod,
And all their carols are of Peace,
Though the sick world hath little ease.
Come in, poor war-worn folk, and rest;
Kneel where the sinless creatures kneel;
The Babe snugged warm in Mother's breast,
He is your Wound-Wort, your All-Heal
Balsam for hurts that throb and smart,
Small Rose of Love on Mary's heart.
Shut close within His hand so small
The sick heart's medicine; not a sword.
Come in, come in, sad people all,
Here is your ancient peace restored!
'Lullalay-loo,' sings Mary mild,
Kissing her God, her Lamb, her Child.
… a birth of a day
an endless - gifted
wrapped in maddening passion
to make love to the presence of such enormity of littleness…
moments wanted to be married
but time not yet born…
thirst frozen-steaming cup of coffee
time alive-the clock on the wall dead
so many tomorrows- today has for us
A new moon day …
…in the nights of these -each living…
Dear endless sky-never shall you be walking in the dark
Without the stars-
Has any one thought over?
Almighty has given gift to him or her
How does the ideas emanate from void mind?
Music in action and feelings very kind
The ideas to role out for vicious world
Happiness and joy for all to hold
Can poetry exist without impetus?
The writer can exist by his status
God might have given special third sense
Free flow of thoughts even without being tense
This is how the journey has begun with birth of poet
Love to all in his imagery world and keep quiet
He does nothing special for performance
He certainly weighs facts at once
Leaving all worries for the common cause
Forgetting for self and think what he was?
This is how he has come in to being
World at his feet without being called a king
What makes water to fall in from of raining?
It doesn’t require any guidance or proper training
His heart pains for others agony
H doesn’t work it for gain or money
He has the mighty thoughts to work as key
No slavery in his world and to make all free
In the State of Kerala,
South-west of India,
There exists a town,
As Kaladi, it’s known.
As a famous pilgrim center,
At the bank of Purna River,
There lived in this Town
Many Namboodri Brahmins.
Among them was one,
Sivaguru, a poor Brahmin,
Who led a spiritual life,
With Aryambal, his wife.
They had no children.
To beget a pious one
They prayed daily the Lord,
Shiva, the most merciful God.
One day, in his dream,
The Lord, Shiva came,
And told him like this
To fulfill the wish of his.
“Do you want a son,
The most intelligent one,
With less years of age
But will live like a sage? ”
“Or, many sons you need,
With their sins and greed?
You’ve your option,
And choose any one.”
He told this to Aryambal.
Next day, in the temple,
Before Shiva, the Lord
They earnestly prayed.
“Oh Lord, What’s good
To serve this world
You know it well.
This how can we tell? ”
“Despite short-lived-one,
Let us have a good son,
Who’ll bring us credit
With his every noble act.”
In the Month of Vaikasi,
Under the star Tiruvathirai,
Shiva himself was born
As Sankara, their only son.
He came to destroy adharma,
And well establish dharma
As their son, Sankara,
In this miserable Kali Yuga.
In numbers, and but these few,
I sing thy birth, oh JESU!
Thou pretty Baby, born here,
With sup'rabundant scorn here;
Who for thy princely port here,
Hadst for thy place
Of birth, a base
Out-stable for thy court here.
Instead of neat enclosures
Of interwoven osiers;
Instead of fragrant posies
Of daffadils and roses,
Thy cradle, kingly stranger,
As gospel tells,
Was nothing else,
But, here, a homely manger.
But we with silks, not cruels,
With sundry precious jewels,
And lily-work will dress thee;
And as we dispossess thee
Of clo}ts, we'll make a chamber,
Sweet babe, for thee,
Of ivory,
And plaster'd round with amber.
The Jews, they did disdain thee;
But we will entertain thee
With glories to await here,
Upon thy princely state here,
And more for love than pity:
From year to year
We'll make thee, here,
A free-born of our city.
Flower buds sleep,
hiding dreams inside.
Universe rests in grain of pollen.
When dawn touches,
by golden quill dipped in dew,
life wakes up afresh.
Divine breeze kisses soft,
Lips slight apart aghast.
Heaven slides down,
tongue twists exotic.
Drama of life unfolds,
as sun wakes up full.
Five petals spread far n’ wide,
trek every nook n’ corner,
acts in scenes of desire.
Time sinks in ocean infinite,
fishing out dead hopes.
Sun dives down in coma.
Mind floats dead in dead-sea.
Retirement arrives unaware.
Lying on a rickety cot,
life unknown, stretches frozen.
Day falls deep into nightmare.
faded petals retreat to dust.
One by one teeth fall.
Skin wrinkles. Tongue bites.
Eyes closes, as ears go blank.
Body remains among discarded flowers.
Life stinks, delves deep into abysses,
Off to another birth another time.
into dirt and filths again.
________________
DAVID.
What means yon apparition in the sky,
Thirsis, that dazzles every shepherd's eye?
I slumbering was when from yon glorious cloud
Came gliding music heavenly, sweet, and loud,
With sacred raptures which my bosom fires,
And with celestial joy my soul inspires;
It soothes the native horrors of the night,
And gladdens nature more than dawning light.
THIRSIS.
But hold, see hither through the yielding air
An angel comes: for mighty news prepare.
ANGEL GABRIEL.
Rejoice, ye swains, anticipate the morn
With songs of praise; for lo! a Saviour's born.
With joyful haste to Bethlehem repair,
And you will find the almighty infant there;
Wrapp'd in a swaddling band you'll find your king,
And in a manger laid, to him your praises bring.
CHORUS OF ANGELS.
To God who in the highest dwells,
Immortal glory be;
Let peace be in the humble cells
Of Adam's progeny.
DAVID.
No more the year shall wintry horrors bring;
Fix'd in the indulgence of eternal spring,
Immortal green shall clothe the hills and vales,
And odorous sweets shall load the balmy gales;
The silver brooks shall in soft murmurs tell
The joy that shall their oozy channels swell.
Feed on, my flocks, and crop the tender grass,
Let blooming joy appear on every face;
For lo! this blessed, this propitious morn,
The Saviour of lost mankind is born.
THIRSIS.
Thou fairest morn that ever sprang from night,
Or deck'd the opening skies with rosy light,
Well mayst thou shine with a distinguish'd ray,
Since here Emmanuel condescends to stay.
Our fears, our guilt, our darkness to dispel,
And save us from the horrid jaws of hell.
Who from his throne descended, matchless love!
To guide poor mortals to bless'd seats above:
But come without delay, let us be gone,
Shepherd, let's go, and humbly kiss the Son.
'Tis fit SERENA shou'd be sung.
High-born SERENA, Fair and Young,
Shou'd be of ev'ry Muse and Voice
The pleasing, and applauded Choice.
But as the Meanest of the Show
Do First in all Processions go:
So, let my Steps pursue that Swain
The humblest of th' inspired Train;
Whose well-meant Verse did just appear,
To lead on the preceding Year:
So let my Pen, the next in Fame,
Now wait on fair SERENA's Name;
The second Tribute gladly pay,
And hail this blest returning Day.
But let it not attempt to raise
Or rightly speak SERENA's Praise:
Since with more ease we might declare
How Great her Predecessors were;
How Great that more distinguish'd Peer,
To whom she owes her Being here;
In whom our Britain lets us see
What once they were, and still shou'd be;
As, when the earliest Race was drown'd,
Some Patterns, from amongst them found,
Were kept to shew succeeding Times
Their Excellence without their Crimes:
More easily we might express
What Vertues do her Mother dress;
What does her Form and Mind adorn,
Of whom th' engaging Nymph was born;
What Piety, what generous Love,
Does the enlarged Bosom move
Of Her, whose Fav'rite she appears,
Who more than as a Niece endears.
Such full Perfections obvious lie,
And strike, at first, a Poet's Eye.
Deep Lines of Honour all can hit,
Or mark out a superior Wit;
Consummate Goodness all can show,
And where such Graces shine below:
But the more tender Strokes to trace,
T' express the Promise of a Face,
When but the Dawnings of the Mind
We from the Air unripen'd find;
Which alt'ring, as new Moments rise,
The Pen or Pencil's Art defies;
When Flesh and Blood in Youth appears,
Polish'd like what our Marble wears;
Fresh as that Shade of op'ning Green,
Which first upon our Groves is seen;
Enliven'd by a harmless Fire,
And brighten'd by each gay Desire;
These nicer Touches wou'd demand
A Cowley's or a Waller's Hand,
T'explain, with undisputed Art,
What 'tis affects th'enlighten'd Heart,
When ev'ry darker Thought gives way,
Whilst blooming Beauty we survey;
To shew how All, that's soft and sweet,
Does in the fair SERENA meet;
To tell us, with a sure Presage,
The Charms of her maturer Age.
When Hothfeild shall (as heretofore {4}
From its far-sought and virtuous Store
It Families of great Renown
Did with illustrious Hymens crown)
When Hothfeild shall such Treasure know,
As fair SERENA to bestow:
Then shou'd some Muse of loftier Wing
The Triumphs of that Season sing;
Describe the Pains, the Hopes, the Fears
Of noble Youths, th'ambitious Cares
Of Fathers, the long-fram'd Design,
To add such Splendour to their Line,
Whilst all shall strive for such a Bride
So Educated, and Ally'd.
I'm a disgrace to the life
I lived as a girl—
she would be ashamed
to have me in the world.
But there's no turning back;
it's time to pay the price
for selfish pride
and evil vice.
Or pack up my things
and leave this great earth—
would you put in place
a rose in birth.
Cause thorns I've got
it's the petals I lack;
beauty should unfold:
this is no unknown fact.
With this request I must be going—
please all take care,
boys and girls
handsome and fair.
You that on Stars do look,
Arrest not there your sight,
Though Natures fairest Book,
And signed with propitious light;
Our Blessing now is more Divine,
Then Planets that at Noon did shine.
To thee alone be praise,
From whom our Joy descends,
Thou Chearer of our Days,
Of Causes first, and last of Ends;
To thee this May we sing, by whom
Our Roses from the Lilies bloom.
Upon this Royal Flower,
Sprung from the chastest Bed,
Thy glorious sweetness shower,
And first let Myrtles Crown his Head;
Then Palms and Lawrels wreath'd between;
But let the Cypress late be seen.
And so succeeding men,
When they the fulness see
Of this our Joy, shall then
In consort joyn as well as we,
To celebrate his Praise above,
That spreads our Land with fruits of Love.
This day, dear Bec, is thy nativity;
Had Fate a luckier one, she'd give it ye.
She chose a thread of greatest length,
And doubly twisted it for strength:
Nor will be able with her shears
To cut it off these forty years.
Then who says care will kill a cat?
Rebecca shows they're out in that.
For she, though overrun with care,
Continues healthy, fat, and fair.
As, if the gout should seize the head,
Doctors pronounce the patient dead;
But, if they can, by all their arts,
Eject it to the extremest parts,
They give the sick man joy, and praise
The gout that will prolong his days.
Rebecca thus I gladly greet,
Who drives her cares to hands and feet:
For, though philosophers maintain
The limbs are guided by the brain,
Quite contrary Rebecca's led;
Her hands and feet conduct her head;
By arbitrary power convey her,
She ne'er considers why or where:
Her hands may meddle, feet may wander,
Her head is but a mere by-stander:
And all her bustling but supplies
The part of wholesome exercise.
Thus nature has resolved to pay her
The cat's nine lives, and eke the care.
Long may she live, and help her friends
Whene'er it suits her private ends;
Domestic business never mind
Till coffee has her stomach lined;
But, when her breakfast gives her courage,
Then think on Stella's chicken porridge:
I mean when Tigerhas been served,
Or else poor Stella may be starved.
May Bec have many an evening nap,
With Tiger slabbering in her lap;
But always take a special care
She does not overset the chair;
Still be she curious, never hearken
To any speech but Tiger's barking!
And when she's in another scene,
Stella long dead, but first the Dean,
May fortune and her coffee get her
Companions that will please her better!
Whole afternoons will sit beside her,
Nor for neglects or blunders chide her.
A goodly set as can be found
Of hearty gossips prating round;
Fresh from a wedding or a christening,
To teach her ears the art of listening,
And please her more to hear them tattle,
Than the Dean storm, or Stella rattle.
Late be her death, one gentle nod,
When Hermes, waiting with his rod,
Shall to Elysian fields invite her,
Where there will be no cares to fright her!
All things within this fading world hath end,
Adversity doth still our joys attend;
No ties so strong, no friends so dear and sweet,
But with death's parting blow are sure to meet.
The sentence past is most irrevocable,
A common thing, yet oh, inevitable.
How soon, my Dear, death may my steps attend,
How soon't may be thy lot to lose thy friend,
We both are ignorant, yet love bids me
These farewell lines to recommend to thee,
That when the knot's untied that made us one,
I may seem thine, who in effect am none.
And if I see not half my days that's due,
What nature would, God grant to yours and you;
The many faults that well you know I have
Let be interred in my oblivious grave;
If any worth or virtue were in me,
Let that live freshly in thy memory
And when thou feel'st no grief, as I no harmes,
Yet love thy dead, who long lay in thine arms,
And when thy loss shall be repaid with gains
Look to my little babes, my dear remains.
And if thou love thyself, or loved'st me,
These O protect from stepdame's injury.
And if chance to thine eyes shall bring this verse,
With some sad sighs honor my absent hearse;
And kiss this paper for thy dear love's sake,
Who with salt tears this last farewell did take.
(written when i was 12)
nobody tells us
where they go to
nobody tells us
where they come from
in darkness
we live and die
Birth and death, twin-sister and twin-brother,
Night and day, on all things that draw breath,
Reign, while time keeps friends with one another
Birth and death.
Each brow-bound with flowers diverse of wreath,
Heaven they hail as father, earth as mother,
Faithful found above them and beneath.
Smiles may lighten tears, and tears may smother
Smiles, for all that joy or sorrow saith:
Joy nor sorrow knows not from each other
Birth and death.
Death is certain for birth.
Is birth certain for death?
Post-birth is pre-death.
It is like go around and return.
Post-death is pre-birth.
It is like stay and remain.
Birth and death is better
Than no birth at all.......
I who have known thee, Birth, must know Death too:
As old, old men their children's children fold
In their gaunt arms, and though their blood be cold
Feel their own youth burn in them as they view
The features that were theirs — each sign so true
To their own breath and blood, 'tis as retold
Their very youth was, when they are so old,
By those who nothing of their childhood knew.
So even Death but a new birth may be,
And in some other star beyond to-day,
When we have put the use of Earth away,
E'en like those old men's children's children we
May see ourselves rise from our own decay,
The very offspring of our verity.
(Dedictaed to Unborn Sufferers and Victims)
Who stopped my pulsation
In first days of life exaltation?
Who ended His Blessed Plan?
Intruded with bloody hand
In the realm beyond man?
What savage craze dared to defy His Plan?
What gory hand put an end to a tiny man?
Intruding with bloody plan
On a powerless... vulnerable man?
What savage craze dared to defy His Holy Plan?
Who dares to slaughter His costly creation?
Tear into pieces! ... burn! ...
Do the grisly, damnable mutilation? !
Who would do this to an innocent, tiny man?
Defying His Hallowed Plan?
Barbarism!
Beneath man!
Who stopped my pulsation?
As savage beast terminated
My maturation, and exaltation?
Who ended His Blessed Plan?
Intruded with bloody hand
In the realm beyond man?
Barbarism!
Beneath man!
Satanic barbarism!
Unspeakably lower
Than any living thing!
Beneath! Underneath!
Way behind man!
Unrepentant killers!
Bearing the weight of the slaughter
Dare not! call yourselves 'men'!
But a savage, untamable beast!
Unrepentant slaughterers!
And, all bearing the weight of the slaughter!
At the End...
You will be called
Among creatures 'the least'!
......................................... ................................................. ..........
BEWARE... 'Christ's Blood enters into human parenthood...'
I don't care what you say
I don't care how much you deny it
You can't dance your wicked way around the truth anymore
More and more everyday
A crime is being committed
No use in lying, crying or pretending that it ain't happening
Birth control is murder
There!
I said it!
And no way will I take it back
Smothering God's plans for your body beneath your own selfish will is just not right
It's just not holy
It's a sin
That's what it really is
Plain and simple
If you don't want a baby, then for sure there must be something wrong with you
Cos no normal woman would want to take wait or take the chance that never have another shot at that dream
A dream that so many women scream, cry and would even die for
That's why I can't
I just can't understand how so many of you young women can be so selfish
So selfish and cruel that you would't give up a mere 9 months to carry a baby for another woman
No, instead you want to keep that perfect body for your own purposes
No, you would rather spit upon the hopes and dreams of your fellow childless women
Birth control is................MURDER!
Tell me ladies
Just when you are gonna get that through your thick selfish heads?
2008 Ramona Thompson
Birth Day....(my friend's birth day)
shiddath se tha muntazir voh apne janam din ka,
milega kuch aisa thohfa, hoga farhat e jan o dil ka...
baharon ke vo din  aakhir khushee khushee aaj aahigaya,
aaya ek lifafa break up likha huva aur tasveer toote huve dil ka....
qismat e bashar salamath, dekho vo kaisey khushee manaye,
youm e viladath jis kee banjaye youm e tafreeq dil ka...
O my faithful Friend!
O early chosen, ever found the same,
And trusted and beloved! once more the verse
Long destin'd, always obvious to thine ear,
Attend indulgent.
Small is the new-born plant scarce seen
Amid the soft encircling green,
Where yonder budding acorn rears,
Just o'er the waving grass, its tender head:
Slow pass along the train of years,
And on the growing plant, their dews and showers they shed.
Anon it rears aloft its giant form,
And spreads its broad-brown arms to meet the storm.
Beneath its boughs far shadowing o'er the plain,
From summer suns, repair the grateful village train.
Nor BEDFORD will my friend survey
The book of Nature with unheeding eye;
For never beams the rising orb of day,
For never dimly dies the refluent ray,
But as the moralizer marks the sky,
He broods with strange delight upon futurity.
And we must muse my friend! maturer years
Arise, and other Hopes and other Fears,
For we have past the pleasant plains of Youth.
Oh pleasant plains! that we might stray
For ever o'er your faery ground--
For ever roam your vales around,
Nor onward tempt the dangerous way--
For oh--what numerous foes assail
The Traveller, from that chearful vale!
With toil and heaviness opprest
Seek not the flowery bank for rest,
Tho' there the bowering woodbine spread
Its fragrant shelter o'er thy head,
Tho' Zephyr there should linger long
To hear the sky-lark's wildly-warbled song,
There heedless Youth shalt thou awake
The vengeance of the coiling snake!
Tho' fairly smiles the vernal mead
To tempt thy pilgrim feet, proceed
Hold on thy steady course aright,
Else shalt thou wandering o'er the pathless plain,
When damp and dark descends the night
Shivering and shelterless, repent in vain.
And yet--tho' Dangers lurk on every side
Receive not WORLDLY WISDOM for thy guide!
Beneath his care thou wilt not know
The throb of unavailing woe,
No tear shall tremble in thine eye
Thy breast shall struggle with no sigh,
He will security impart,
But he will apathize thy heart!
Ah no!
Fly Fly that fatal foe,
Virtue shall shrink from his torpedo grasp--
For not more fatal thro' the Wretches veins
Benumb'd in Death's cold pains
Creeps the chill poison of the deadly asp.
Serener joys my friend await
Maturer manhood's steady state.
The wild brook bursting from its source
Meanders on its early course,
Delighting there with winding way
Amid the vernal vale to stray,
Emerging thence more widely spread
It foams along its craggy bed,
And shatter'd with the mighty shock
Rushes from the giddy rock--
Hurl'd headlong o'er the dangerous steep
On runs the current to the deep,
And gathering waters as it goes
Serene and calm the river flows,
Diffuses plenty o'er the smiling coast,
Rolls on its stately waves and is in ocean lost.
And wouldst thou seek the low abode
Where PEACE delights to dwell?
Pause Traveller on thy way of life!
With many a snare and peril rife
Is that long labyrinth of road:
Dark is the vale of years before
Pause Traveller on thy way!
Nor dare the dangerous path explore
Till old EXPERIENCE comes to lend his leading ray.
Not he who comes with lanthorn light
Shall guide thy groping pace aright
With faltering feet and slow;
No! let him rear the torch on high
And every maze shall meet thine eye,
And every snare and every foe;
Then with steady step and strong,
Traveller, shalt thou march along.
Tho' POWER invite thee to her hall,
Regard not thou her tempting call
Her splendors meteor glare;
Tho' courteous Flattery there await
And Wealth adorn the dome of State,
There stalks the midnight spectre CARE;
PEACE, Traveller! does not sojourn there.
If FAME allure thee, climb not thou
To that steep mountain's craggy brow
Where stands her stately pile;
For far from thence does PEACE abide,
And thou shall find FAME'S favouring smile
Cold as the feeble Sun on Heclas snow-clad side,
And Traveller! as thou hopest to find
That low and loved abode,
Retire thee from the thronging road
And shun the mob of human kind.
Ah I hear how old EXPERIENCE schools,
"Fly fly the crowd of Knaves and Fools
"And thou shalt fly from woe;
"The one thy heedless heart will greet
"With Judas smile, and thou wilt meet
"In every Fool a Foe!"
So safely mayest thou pass from these,
And reach secure the home of PEACE,
And FRIENDSHIP find thee there.
No happier state can mortal know,
No happier lot can Earth bestow
If LOVE thy lot shall share.
Yet still CONTENT with him may dwell
Whom HYMEN will not bless,
And VIRTUE sojourn in the cell
Of HERMIT HAPPINESS.
as i remember my day
with the angel by the side
embracing the time unstocked
as resourced from the womb
with the verses by the heart well-define
as i share those when mutterings
yet the whispers of solemn river
when curved over cravings undiscovered
yet sweet words in mute undertones
crystals of the glass dazzling
quite breakable as nobody knows
even may cruise and handle with care
still it ripples from the skin
from the temple’s stone
the birds chirrups over the tree
nest when hanging by hinges of the breeze
my moments of the time peeling off
ravings when melting slowly by the hours
i look back as the leaf falling apart
from its core i look forward with anger.
For Alexandra, born May 17, 1999
Armored in red, her voice commands
every corner. Bells gong on squares,
in steeples, answering the prayers.
Bright tulips crown the boulevards.
Pulled from the womb she imitates
that mythic kick from some god's head.
She roars, and we are conquered.
Her legs, set free, combat the air.
Naked warrior: she is our own.
Entire empires are overthrown.
Joy is a trick in the air; pleasure is merely
contemptible, the dangled
Carrot the ass follows to market or precipice;
But limitary pain -- the rock under the tower
and the hewn coping
That takes thunder at the head of the turret-
Terrible and real. Therefore a mindless dervish
carving himself
With knives will seem to have conquered the world.
The world's God is treacherous and full of
unreason; a torturer, but also
The only foundation and the only fountain.
Who fights him eats his own flesh and perishes
of hunger; who hides in the grave
To escape him is dead; who enters the Indian
Recession to escape him is dead; who falls in
love with the God is washed clean
Of death desired and of death dreaded.
He has joy, but Joy is a trick in the air; and
pleasure, but pleasure is contemptible;
And peace; and is based on solider than pain.
He has broken boundaries a little and that will
estrange him; he is monstrous, but not
To the measure of the God.... But I having told
you--
However I suppose that few in the world have
energy to hear effectively-
Have paid my birth-dues; am quits with the
people.
Submitted by Holt
BIRTH IS BEGINNING
Birth is beginning,
Hope is its name-
A child gives meaning to the world.
Behold her,
Running through the waves
Eager to reach the land;
The water laps her,
Sun and wind are on her,
Healthy, brine-drenched and young,
Behold Desire new-born;-
Desire on first fulfillment's radiant edge,
Love at miraculous moment of emergence,
This is she,
Who running,
Hastens, hastens to the land.
Look. . Look. .
Her blown gold hair and lucent eyes of youth,
Her body rose and ivory in the sun. .
Look,
How he hastens,
Running, running to the land.
Her hands are yearning and her feet are swift
To reach and hold
She knows not what
Yet knows that it is life;
Need urges her,
Self, uncomprehended but most deep divined,
Unwilled but all-comprelling, drives her on.
Life runs to life.
She who longs,
But hath not yet accepted or bestowed,
All virginal dear and bright,
Runs, runs to reach the land.
And she who runs shall be
married to blue of summer skies at noon,
companion to green fields,
held bride to subtle fragrance and of all sweet sound,
beloved of the stars,
and wanton priestess to the veering winds.
Oh breathless space between:
Womb-time just passed,
Dark-hidden, chaotic formative, unpersonal,
And individual life of fresh-created force
Not yet begun:
One moment more
Before desire shall meet desire
And new creation start.
Oh breathless space,
While she,
Just risen from the waves,
Runs, runs to reach the land.
(Ah, keenest personal moment
When mouth unkissed turns eager-slow and tremulous
Toward lover's mouth,
That tremulous and eager-slow
Droops down to it:
But breathless space of breath or two
Lies in between
Before the mouth upturned and mouth down-drooped
Shall meet and make the kiss.)
Look. . Look. .
She runs. .
Love fresh-emerged,
Desire new-born. .
Blown on by wind,
And shone on by the sun,
She rises from the waves
And running,
Hasten, hastens to the land.
Belove'd and Belove'd and Belove'd,
Even so right
And beautiful and
Is my desire;
Even so longing-swift
I run to your receiving arms.
O Aphrodite!
O Aphrodite hear!
Hear my wrung cry flame upward poignant-glad…
This is my time for me.
I too am young;
I too am all of love!
… birth of a day
An endlessness, gifted:
maddening passion
wrapped in blue, red and green
to make love to the  enormity of littleness…[]
moments wanted to be married  [moments which…]
but time not yet born…
thirst frozen-steaming cup of coffee
time alive-the clock on the wall dead
so many tomorrows- today has for us
A new moon day …
…in the nights of these -each living…
Dear endless sky-never shall you be walking in the dark
Without the stars-
…so far gone…
…still the fragrance from the empty bottle of perfume lingering in and around
Wherever I go…
I tried and tried again
To write a poem from beginning to end.
Though this is what I planned at first.
The night goes on and my writing gets worse.
I decided to print during the night.
It's the only thing that seems to look right.
I know I'll be marked from one to ten,
Are they my teacher's or  my friend.
Crumbled papers gather around my knees,
A glass of water is all I really need.
Laundry's done,  and I had my bath,
Back again, quick as a flash.
Fearful that I'll write a bummer,
Time slips by as I sit and wonder,
Who ever thought that writing a verse,
Would be so hard,  Though math is worse.
Twelve o'clock and all is well,
My head's getting big,  It's starting to swell.
A pen in hand felt like my only friend.
Before I realized it,  I reached the end.
a prisoner
of my own wish,
for loneliness.
my soul seperates
to another world,
when myraid thoughts,
make entry,
into my mind.
spearing through
in fast speed,
an idea promptly
developing,
into a poem.
at other times,
all my thoughts,
form into a knotted ball,
and fall into,
a dark abyss
of blackness.
but when i climb,
the staircase of darkness
suddenly a light reveals
to show me, that
i belong to another world
and a new poem is born.
As women are full with their
unborn children, so it is that
I am filled with my unborn words.
As a mother who loves her child
that is yet to be seen, so to, do I
yearn for words which are unborn
and lie in darkness.
I say to myself, 'come to the light,
come forth from me, that I might
see you...so that I might see my
child that is born of thought.
©Joe Fazio
In the aqueous placenta
Of Psychological
Feminine vitality,
The shapeless feotus
Of my virgin desire
Begins to materialize
Nourished by the
Quintessential love
Flowing from your verse!
Heart oozes sensuality,
Throbbing emotions,
Pigmented with Passion.
Infantile Stumbling
In my composition
Of Illegible words,
And I recline in your
Adoring arms
To learn love’s first alphabets!
no religion will bring it to you
no merchant can supply it.
no king may decree it.
no empire implores it
it cannot exist until they are gone
it will not be born until the will of Man is broken
when religion becomes the tool of nature
when merchants live with the forest.
when kings hear the song of the Earth
when empires dance to the rhythms of the people
it cannot live until all we know is dead
it will not know the light until the long Day is done.
peace
The dark hour.
Pitch black.
The night sparks,
with sudden stars.
With a glory unattained,
the night-shroud whispers
to the tumultuous ocean,
a longing unknown.
Breaks from the unfathomable darkness,
chaos of a roaring dawn.
stamping its thump
in this lonely night sky.
An endeavour
to sweep the earth off its feet.
Leaps of joy,
in the boundless ocean.
the cumulative sorrow, a burden unshed,
smothered in a second.
All that was,
vanishes…
for all that is, to come.
and thus ends a creation,
to create the uncreated.
It was quiet
as bone.
I felt I was
in a cage.
I was a curve
lost in space
not thinking
thinking of nothing
in particular
or perhaps 'Man...
I so want to be
outta here! '
Next minute
I was being
fashioned into
WOMAN.
My own
person
no longer just
part of him.
Even God had to admit
I was an immense
improvement
(I think he fancied
me himself)
on old Adam.
I thought the world
was my oyster
sent out for
some Chinese
spare ribs
smoothered in a black bean sauce.
Then I got on
with the business
of making
the world.
Oh happy days, we chide the voluptuous
memories began by youthful inclinations
the gleeful hours not wasted beyond,
easy way nor hard-knocked plays.
The temblor matters not, terribly
shaken by promiscuous advances:
the lust within not abandoned
by whims burst into ventured array!
Ah! It sets out free the weight bounded
on and on, closer than it were old.
On days of labor, she cried the unwilling
song began by moans and censures-
but, it was too late looking back
behind the closed curtains of woes.
The pains never cease at will nor ordered
by the command of nature or so-
thus, the expected cried hard
and embroiled ceasing silence by cant.
Oh, why this beauty of procreation
hound every way of living days beyond!
On days of growth and trimming by
the whims began to show alluring-
the painful days forgotten and faded
another plant cropped in tow...
When will this trade of angels come not
this material world turning and glow?
Even those at odds giving their share
and every thing are tremored disarray!
No wonder, the plentiful harvest drained
no share given nor share to behold.
On days of compunction, we chant by
the hyperbole of songs and praises-
and hysterious hygiene of woes
stalked the hustles and panting prays...
Thence, the culprit of it all shied away
hostily humming in cheerful quest
and tearing down the torrid walls
with a pinch of dusts blown instead!
No reasons of thoughts can allure
the nature's gallows, a galant stand fall.
In an open field I sit,
my life has turned to shit;
as I take this blade,
and I make my slit.
In the light of the moon.
I'll end my life here tonight;
enthralled to watch my blood flow,
under pale moonlight, at midnight.
A deep angled cut,
to make things right,
as I see this blade,
reflecting the light.
Staring up at the moon,
my mind will depart soon;
it's almost time for me to go,
soothing feelings of vertigo.
May my blood...
seep back into this earth;
ending my life...
returning me back to birth...
You can never lose that part of you
Our hearts were beating as one
You nourished me made a home for me
When I gazed upon you I cried
For a moment I needed to return inside
Bringing comfort
So much to teach
Longing for speech
You make me stand tall even when I fall
Our lives together
Eternal connection
That cannot be broken even in separation
Not just for set backs
You are my inspiration
Through my creation
Though I fail often to show it
You are my devotion
Before we knew
anything at all about sex
we knew
all about our birth
stories.
Our Mam
would recall & regale us all
(setting the table...peeling spuds...sweeping out the hall)
with the intimate
details
of all
our births.
“Tell us of US again...Mam...tell of us again! ”
I was small
(2lbs 2 ounces)
hardly anything
at all.
A mere scrap of
human being.
Blathin Ashling
was even smaller
(1 lb something or other)
...a little miracle.
Was it Deirdre
with the cord wrapped
around her neck
fighting both
Life & Death
‘til she was blue
In the face
Or Grainne
with the cord so thin
she was born just in
the nick of time
& the cord(just a hair’s
breath)
floats eternally now
(in a glass of formaldehyde  still)
for doctors to astonish
& marvel at.
And how
there being no incubators
when I came into being
they had to wrap
me up
in cotton wool
(as if I were a
precious thing)
in order to keep
me warm
but I wasn’t having
any of it
kicking my way
out of the stuff
only for them
to repackage
me again!
And again...& again.
And here(in 1956)
I arrive on the scene
tip toeing out into
Life
with cool coal black
full length sideburns
ready to rock
& roll man
as the labour ward radio
played
the hit
of the day
“CE SERA...SERA! ”
It’s almost as if
I can still hear
Doris singing
our whatevers
will bes.
Our birth
story
each our
first fairy story
& we
the Prince & Princesses
of it
all.
Blind from my birth,
Where flowers are springing
I sit on earth
All dark.
Hark! hark!
A lark is singing.
His notes are all for me,
For me his mirth: -
Till some day I shall see
Beautiful flowers
And birds in bowers
Where all Joy Bells are ringing.
Our vows are heard betimes, and heaven takes care
To grant, before we can conclude the prayer;
Preventing angels met it half the way,
And sent us back to praise, who came to pray.
Just on the day, when the high-mounted sun
Did farthest in his northern progress run,
He bended forward, and even stretched the sphere
Beyond the limits of the lengthened year,
To view a brighter sun in Britain born;
That was the business of his longest morn;
The glorious object seen, 'twas time to turn.
Departing spring could only stay to shed
Her bloomy beauties on the genial bed,
But left the manly summer in her stead,
With timely fruit the longing land to cheer,
And to fulfil the promise of the year.
Betwixt two seasons comes the auspicious heir,
This age to blossom, and the next to bear.
Last solemn Sabbath saw the Church attend,
The Paraclete in fiery pomp descend;
But when his wondrous octave rolled again,
He brought a royal infant in his train:
So great a blessing to so good a king,
None but the Eternal Comforter could bring.
Or did the mighty Trinity conspire,
As once in council to create our sire?
It seems as if they sent the new-born guest,
To wait on the procession of their feast;
And on their sacred anniverse decreed
To stamp their image on the promised seed.
Three realms united, and on one bestowed,
An emblem of their mystic union showed;
The Mighty Trine the triple empire shared,
As every person would have one to guard.
Hail, son of prayers! by holy violence
Drawn down from heaven; but long be banished thence,
And late to thy paternal skies retire!
To mend our crimes, whole ages would require;
To change the inveterate habit of our sins,
And finish what thy godlike sire begins.
Kind heaven, to make us Englishmen again,
No less can give us than a patriarch's reign.
The sacred cradle to your charge receive,
Ye seraphs, and by turns the guard relieve;
Thy father's angel, and thy father join,
To keep possession, and secure the line;
But long defer the honours of thy fate;
Great may they be like his, like his be late,
That James this running century may view,
And give this son an auspice to the new.
Our wants exact at least that moderate stay;
For, see the dragon winged on his way,
To watch the travail, and devour the prey:
Or, if allusions may not rise so high,
Thus, when Alcides raised his infant cry,
The snakes besieged his young divinity;
But vainly with their forked tongues they threat,
For opposition makes a hero great.
To needful succour all the good will run,
And Jove assert the godhead of his son.
O still repining at your present state,
Grudging yourselves the benefits of fate;
Look up, and read in characters of light
A blessing sent you in your own despite!
The manna falls, yet that celestial bread,
Like Jews, you munch, and murmur while you feed.
May not your fortune be, like theirs, exiled,
Yet forty years to wander in the wild!
Or, if it be, may Moses live at least,
To lead you to the verge of promised rest!
Though poets are not prophets, to foreknow
What plants will take the blight, and what will grow,
By tracing heaven, his footsteps may be found;
Behold, how awfully he walks the round!
God is abroad, and, wondrous in his ways,
The rise of empires, and their fall, surveys;
More, might I say, than with an usual eye,
He sees his bleeding Church in ruins lie,
And hears the souls of saints beneath his altar cry.
Already has he lifted high the sign,
Which crowned the conquering arms of Constantine,
The moon grows pale at that presaging sight,
And half her train of stars have lost their light.
Behold another Sylvester, to bless
The sacred standard, and secure success;
Large of his treasures, of a soul so great,
As fills and crowds his universal seat.
Now view at home a second Constantine;
(The former too was of the British line,)
Has not his healing balm your breaches closed,
Whose exile many sought, and few opposed?
O, did not Heaven, by its eternal doom,
Permit those evils, that this good might come?
So manifest, that even the moon-eyed sects
See whom and what this Providence protects.
Methinks, had we within our minds no more
Than that one shipwrack on the fatal Ore,
That only thought may make us think again,
What wonders God reserves for such a reign.
To dream, that chance his preservation wrought,
Were to think Noah was preserved for nought;
Or the surviving eight were not designed
To people earth, and to restore their kind.
When humbly on the royal babe we gaze,
The manly lines of a majestic face
Give awful joy; 'tis paradise to look
On the fair frontispiece of nature's book:
If the first opening page so charms the sight,
Think how the unfolded volume will delight!
See how the venerable infant lies
In early pomp; how through the mother's eyes
The father's soul, with an undaunted view,
Looks out, and takes our homage as his due!
See on his future subjects how he smiles,
Nor meanly flatters, nor with craft beguiles;
But with an open face, as on his throne,
Assures our birthrights, and assumes his own.
Born in broad day-light, that the ungrateful rout
May find no room for a remaining doubt;
Truth, which itself is light, does darkness shun,
And the true eaglet safely dares the sun.
Fain would the fiends have made a dubious birth,
Loath to confess the godhead clothed in earth;
But, sickened, after all their baffled lies,
To find an heir apparent of the skies,
Abandoned to despair, still may they grudge,
And, owning not the Saviour, prove the judge.
Not great Æneas stood in plainer day,
When the dark mantling mist dissolved away;
He to the Tyrians showed his sudden face,
Shining with all his goddess mother's grace;
For she herself had made his countenance bright,
Breathed honour on his eyes, and her own purple light.
If our victorious Edward, as they say,
Gave Wales a prince on that propitious day,
Why may not years revolving with his fate
Produce his like, but with a longer date;
One, who may carry to a distant shore
The terror that his famed forefather bore?
But why should James, or his young hero, stay
For slight presages of a name or day?
We need no Edward's fortune to adorn
That happy moment when our prince was born;
Our prince adorns this day, and ages hence
Shall wish his birthday for some future prince.
Great Michael, prince of all the ethereal hosts,
And whate'er inborn saints our Britain boasts;
And thou, the adopted patron of our isle,
With cheerful aspects on this infant smile!
The pledge of heaven, which, dropping from above,
Secures our bliss, and reconciles his love.
Enough of ills our dire rebellion wrought,
When to the dregs we drank the bitter draught;
Then airy atoms did in plagues conspire,
Nor did the avenging angel yet retire,
But purged our still-increasing crimes with fire.
Then perjured plots, the still impending test,
And worse—but charity conceals the rest.
Here stop the current of the sanguine flood;
Require not, gracious God! thy martyrs' blood;
But let their dying pangs, their living toil,
Spread a rich harvest through their native soil;
A harvest ripening for another reign,
Of which this royal babe may reap the grain.
Enough of early saints one womb has given,
Enough increased the family of heaven;
Let them for his and our atonement go,
And, reigning blest above, leave him to rule below.
Enough already has the year foreslowed
His wonted course, the sea has overflowed,
The meads were floated with a weeping spring,
And frightened birds in woods forgot to sing;
The strong-limbed steed beneath his harness faints,
And the same shivering sweat his lord attaints.
When will the minister of wrath give o'er?
Behold him at Araunah's threshing-floor!
He stops, and seems to sheathe his flaming brand,
Pleased with burnt incense from our David's hand;
David has bought the Jebusite's abode,
And raised an altar to the living God.
Heaven, to reward him, makes his joys sincere;
No future ills nor accidents appear,
To sully and pollute the sacred infant's year.
Five months to discord and debate were given;
He sanctifies the yet remaining seven.
Sabbath of months! henceforth in him be blest,
And prelude to the realms perpetual rest!
Let his baptismal drops for us atone;
Lustrations for offences not his own:
Let conscience, which is interest ill disguised,
In the same font be cleansed, and all the land baptized.
Unnamed as yet; at least unknown to fame;
Is there a strife in heaven about his name,
Where every famous predecessor vies,
And makes a faction for it in the skies?
Or must it be reserved to thought alone?
Such was the sacred Tetragrammaton.
Things worthy silence must not be revealed;
Thus the true name of Rome was kept concealed,
To shun the spells and sorceries of those
Who durst her infant majesty oppose.
But when his tender strength in time shall rise
To dare ill tongues, and fascinating eyes,
This isle, which hides the little Thunderer's fame,
Shall be too narrow to contain his name:
The artillery of heaven shall make him known;
Crete could not hold the god, when Jove was grown.
As Jove's increase, who from his brain was born,
Whom arms and arts did equally adorn,
Free of the breast was bred, whose milky taste
Minerva's name to Venus had debased;
So this imperial babe rejects the food,
That mixes monarch's with plebeian blood:
Food that his inborn courage might control,
Extinguish all the father in his soul,
And for his Estian race, and Saxon strain,
Might reproduce some second Richard's reign.
Mildness he shares from both his parents' blood;
But kings too tame are despicably good:
Be this the mixture of this regal child,
By nature manly, but by virtue mild.
Thus far the furious transport of the news
Had to prophetic madness fired the muse;
Madness ungovernable, uninspired,
Swift to foretell whatever she desired.
Was it for me the dark abyss to tread,
And read the book which angels cannot read?
How was I punished, when the sudden blast
The face of heaven, and our young sun, o'ercast!
Fame, the swift ill increasing as she rolled,
Disease, despair, and death, at three reprises told:
At three insulting strides she stalked the town,
And, like contagion, struck the loyal down.
Down fell the winnowed wheat; but, mounted high,
The whirlwind bore the chaff, and hid the sky.
Here black rebellion shooting from below,
(As earth's gigantic brood by moments grow,)
And here the sons of God are petrified with woe:
An apoplex of grief! so low were driven
The saints, as hardly to defend their heaven.
As, when pent vapours run their hollow round,
Earthquakes, which are convulsions of the ground,
Break bellowing forth, and no confinement brook,
Till the third settles what the former shook;
Such heavings had our souls, till, slow and late,
Our life with his returned, and faith prevailed on fate.
By prayers the mighty blessing was implored,
To prayers was granted, and by prayers restored.
So, ere the Shunamite a son conceived,
The prophet promised, and the wife believed;
A son was sent, the son so much desired,
But soon upon the mother's knees expired.
The troubled seer approached the mournful door,
Ran, prayed, and sent his pastoral staff before,
Then stretched his limbs upon the child, and mourned,
Till warmth, and breath, and a new soul returned.
Thus Mercy stretches out her hand, and saves
Desponding Peter, sinking in the waves.
As when a sudden storm of hail and rain
Beats to the ground the yet unbearded grain,
Think not the hopes of harvest are destroyed
On the flat field, and on the naked void;
The light, unloaded stem, from tempest freed,
Will raise the youthful honours of his head;
And, soon restored by native vigour, bear
The timely product of the bounteous year.
Nor yet conclude all fiery trials past,
For heaven will exercise us to the last;
Sometimes will check us in our full career,
With doubtful blessings, and with mingled fear,
That, still depending on his daily grace,
His every mercy for an alms may pass;
With sparing hands will diet us to good,
Preventing surfeits of our pampered blood.
So feeds the mother bird her craving young
With little morsels, and delays them long.
True, this last blessing was a royal feast;
But where's the wedding-garment on the guest?
Our manners, as religion were a dream,
Are such as teach the nations to blaspheme.
In lusts we wallow, and with pride we swell,
And injuries with injuries repel;
Prompt to revenge, not daring to forgive,
Our lives unteach the doctrine we believe.
Thus Israel sinned, impenitently hard,
And vainly thought the present ark their guard;
But when the haughty Philistines appear,
They fled, abandoned to their foes and fear;
Their God was absent, though his ark was there.
Ah! lest our crimes should snatch this pledge away,
And make our joys the blessings of a day!
For we have sinned him hence, and that he lives,
God to his promise, not our practice, gives.
Our crimes would soon weigh down the guilty scale,
But James and Mary, and the Church prevail.
Nor Amalek can rout the chosen bands,
While Hur and Aaron hold up Moses' hands.
By living well, let us secure his days,
Moderate in hopes, and humble in our ways.
No force the free-born spirit can constrain,
But charity, and great examples gain.
Forgiveness is our thanks for such a day;
'Tis godlike God in his own coin to pay.
But you, propitious queen, translated here,
From your mild heaven, to rule our rugged sphere,
Beyond the sunny walks, and circling year;
You, who your native climate have bereft
Of all the virtues, and the vices left;
Whom piety and beauty make their boast,
Though beautiful is well in pious lost;
So lost as star-light is dissolved away,
And melts into the brightness of the day;
Or gold about the royal diadem,
Lost, to improve the lustre of the gem,—
What can we add to your triumphant day?
Let the great gift the beauteous giver pay;
For should our thanks awake the risingsun,
And lengthen, as his latest shadows run,
That, though the longest day, would soon, too soon be done.
Let angels' voices with their harps conspire,
But keep the auspicious infant from the choir;
Late let him sing above, and let us know
No sweeter music than his cries below.
Nor can I wish to you, great monarch, more
Than such an annual income to your store;
The day, which gave this unit, did not shine
For a less omen, than to fill the trine.
After a prince, an admiral beget;
The Royal Sovereign wants an anchor yet.
Our isle has younger titles still in store,
And when the exhausted land can yield no more,
Your line can force them from a foreign shore.
The name of Great your martial mind will suit;
But justice is your darling attribute:
Of all the Greeks, 'twas but one hero's due,
And, in him, Plutarch prophesied of you.
A prince's favours but on few can fall,
But justice is a virtue shared by all.
Some kings the name of conquerors have assumed,
Some to be great, some to be gods presumed;
But boundless power, and arbitrary lust,
Made tyrants still abhor the name of Just;
They shunned the praise this godlike virtue gives
And feared a title that reproached their lives.
The power, from which all kings derive their state,
Whom they pretend, at least, to imitate,
Is equal both to punish and reward;
For few would love their God, unless they feared.
Resistless force and immortality
Make but a lame, imperfect deity;
Tempests have force unbounded to destroy,
And deathless being even the damned enjoy;
And yet heaven's attributes, both last and first;
One without life, and one with life accurst;
But justice is heaven's self, so strictly he,
That could it fail, the godhead could not be.
This virtue is your own; but life and state
Are, one to fortune subject, one to fate:
Equal to all, you justly frown or smile;
Nor hopes nor fears your steady hand beguile;
Yourself our balance hold, the world's our isle.
Gautama Buddha was the founder of Buddhism Religion.  He was born in 560 BC and died at the age of 80 in 480 BC.  His life story is known to the world as a popular reformer in the spiritual world. His life story goes:
GAUTAMA BUDDHA
Before the Christian era,
In the 6th century, in India,
The religion was forgotten.
To winds, it was thrown.
It was a period of chaos,
None cared for the Vedas,
When the priests dictated,
And on religion, they traded.
In many unscrupulous ways,
They all amassed riches.
In exploiting their followers,
They were totally irreligious.
They performed those rituals,
Which were so meaningless,
Like killing dumb animals,
As part of cruel sacrifices.
Righteousness was nowhere.
Degeneration was everywhere.
In this irreligious background,
The priest-craft well flourished.
When the virtue subsides
And the vice prevails,
Himself, God descends,
Or messengers, He sends.
To set right this disorder,
There came a reformer,
As Godsend messenger
To spread love everywhere.
For this divine reason,
Although out of season,
To indicate his arrival sign,
There fell a gentle rain.
The flowers bloomed well,
Spreading delicious smell,
That filled the air around,
As one more sign, it was found.
In this holy atmosphere,
Amidst joy everywhere,
Gautama Buddha was born,
As a Savior from the heaven.
Siddhartha loved his wife
More than his own life.
In the pleasure palace,
He enjoyed music and dance.
Some time he was restless
Yashodhara noticed this.
But she couldn’t guess,
The reason for his worries.
Though physically he was
With her in their palace,
He was elsewhere mentally.
Like this, she felt naturally.
Outside the pleasure palace,
There was something else,
Which he had never seen.
To see it, he was so keen.
But he couldn’t go out
As the security was tight.
To go out of the palace
He waited for a chance.
She delivered, one fine morn,
As expected, a beautiful son.
A messenger made a mention
“Oh prince, a son is born.”
“Rahula! ” Said the prince,
In a low whispering voice,
“Obstacle, ” what it meant.
The messenger mistook it.
It’s a name, what he thought.
To the King, he conveyed it.
So, they named the child
“Rahula, ” as the prince told.
As an obstacle, any day,
Never Rahula was on his way.
He too wasn’t bound,
By the new born child.
Before his love developed,
He had left the child,
But was happy, he had a son,
As an heir to the throne.
Years later, Rahula was one,
Among the main disciples ten,
So, the word ‘obstacle’ lost
What it signified, at last.
At this glad Triumph, when most Poets use
Their quill, I did not bridle up my Muse
For sloth or less devotion. I am one
That can well keep my Holy-dayes at home;
That can the blessings of my King and State
Better in pray'r then poems gratulate;
And in their fortunes bear a loyal part,
Though I no bone-fires light but in my heart.
Truth is, when I receiv'd the first report
Of a new Starre risen and seen at Court;
Though I felt joy enough to give a tongue
Unto a mute, yet duty strook me dumb:
And thus surpriz'd by rumour, at first sight
I held it some allegiance not to write.
For howere Children, unto those that look
Their pedigree in God's, not the Church book,
Fair pledges are of that eternitie
Which Christians possess not till they die;
Yet they appear view'd in that perspective
Through which we look on men long since alive,
Like succours in a Camp, sent to make good
Their place that last upon the watches stood.
So that in age, or fate, each following birth
Doth set the Parent so much neerer earth:
And by this Grammar we our heirs may call
The smiling Preface to our funerall.
This sadded my soft sense, to think that he
Who now makes Lawes, should by a bold decree
Be summon'd hence to make another room,
And change his Royal Palace for a tomb.
For none ere truly lov'd the present light,
But griev'd to see it rivall'd by the night:
And if't be sin to wish that light extinct,
Sorrow may make it treason but to think't.
I know each male-content or giddy man,
In his religion with the Persian,
Adores the rising Sun; and his false view
Best likes not what is best, but what is new.
O that we could these gangrenes so prevent
(For our own blessing and their punishment)
That all such might, who for wild changes thirst,
Rack't on a hopeless expectation, burst,
To see us fetter time, and by his stay
To a consistence fix the flying day;
And in a Solstice by our prayers made,
Rescue our Sun from death or envies shade.
But here we dally with fate, and in this
Stern Destiny mocks and controules our wish;
Informing us, if fathers should remain
For ever here, children were born in vain;
And we in vain were Christians, should we
In this world dream of perpetuitie.
Decay is natures Kalendar; nor can
It hurt the King to think he is a man;
Nor grieve, but comfort him, to hear us say
That his own children must his Scepter sway.
Why slack I then to contribute a vote
Large as the Kingdoms joy, free as my thought?
Long live the Prince, and in that title bear
The world long witness that the King is here:
May he grow up till all that good he reach
Which we can wish, or his Great Father teach:
Let him shine long a mark to Land and Mayn,
Like that bright Spark plac't neerest to Charles Wayn,
And like him lead successions golden Teame,
Which may possess the Brittish Diademe.
But in the mean space, let his Royal Sire,
Who warmes our hopes with true Promethean fire,
So long his course in time and glory run,
Till he estate his vertue on his son.
So in his Fathers dayes this happy One
Shall crowned be, yet not usurp the Throne;
And Charles reign still, since thus himself will be
Heir to himself through all Posteritie.
‘... unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it dies, it produces many seeds.’
(Jesus Christ)
I won´t forget the day
I stumbled on a pearl
On my way to the graveyard.
Since then our roads
Have drifted apart.
You tell me
I  died from  a gush of water
Sprayed out of the fountain,
Others  say I  choke to death
From a gust of fresh wind.
As I walked up that  road
Your laughter was everything I heard,
Since then our paths have slowly blurred.
You wonder why I ´ve been
Prospecting  for gold
Just to  load my  gilt gun
To shoot me dead.
Yes, you are right!
I started to see the day I became blind.
I started to live the day I died.
Death and birth should dwell not near together:
Wealth keeps house not, even for shame, with dearth:
Fate doth ill to link in one brief tether
Death and birth.
Harsh the yoke that binds them, strange the girth
Seems that girds them each with each:  yet whether
Death be best, who knows, or life on earth?
Ill the rose-red and the sable feather
Blend in one crown's plume, as grief with mirth:
Ill met still are warm and wintry weather,
Death and birth.
'Tis the midnight hour; I heard
The Abbey-bell give out the word.
Seldom is the lamp-ray shed
On some dwarfed foot-farer's head
In the deep and narrow street
Lying ditch-like at my feet
Where I stand at lattice high
Downward gazing listlessly
From my house upon the rock,
Peak of earth's foundation-block.
There her windows, every story,
Shine with far-off nebulous glory!
Round her in that luminous cloud
Stars obedient press and crowd,
She the centre of all gazing,
She the sun her planets dazing!
In her eyes' victorious lightning
Some are paling, some are brightening:
Those on which they gracious turn,
Stars combust, all tenfold burn;
Those from which they look away
Listless roam in twilight gray!
When on her my looks I bent
Wonder shook me like a tent,
And my eyes grew dim with sheen,
Wasting light upon its queen!
But though she my eyes might chain,
Rule my ebbing flowing brain,
Truth alone, without, within,
Can the soul's high homage win!
He, I do not doubt, is there
Who unveiled my idol fair!
And I thank him, grateful much,
Though his end was none of such.
He from shapely lips of wit
Let the fire-flakes lightly flit,
Scorching as the snow that fell
On the damned in Dante's hell;
With keen, gentle opposition,
Playful, merciless precision,
Mocked the sweet romance of youth
Balancing on spheric truth;
He on sense's firm set plane
Rolled the unstable ball amain:
With a smile she looked at me,
Stung my soul, and set me free.
Welcome, friend! Bring in your bricks.
Mortar there? No need to mix?
That is well. And picks and hammers?
Verily these are no shammers!-
There, my friend, build up that niche,
That one with the painting rich!
Yes, you're right; it is a show
Picture seldom can bestow;
City palaces and towers,
Terraced gardens, twilight bowers,
Vistas deep through swaying masts,
Pennons flaunting in the blasts:
Build; my room it does not fit;
Brick-glaze is the thing for it!
Yes, a window you may call it;
Not the less up you must wall it:
In that niche the dead world lies;
Bury death, and free mine eyes.
There were youths who held by me,
Said I taught, yet left them free:
Will they do as I said then?
God forbid! As ye are men,
Find the secret-follow and find!
All forget that lies behind;
Me, the schools, yourselves, forsake;
In your souls a silence make;
Hearken till a whisper come,
Listen, follow, and be dumb.
There! 'tis over; I am dead!
Of my life the broken thread
Here I cast out of my hand!-
O my soul, the merry land!
On my heart the sinking vault
Of my ruining past makes halt;
Ages I could sit and moan
For the shining world that's gone!
Haste and pierce the other wall;
Break an opening to the All!
Where? No matter; done is best.
Kind of window? Let that rest:
Who at morning ever lies
Pondering how to ope his eyes!
I bethink me: we must fall
On the thinnest of the wall!
There it must be, in that niche!-
No, the deepest-that in which
Stands the Crucifix.
You start?-
Ah, your half-believing heart
Shrinks from that as sacrilege,
Or, at least, upon its edge!
Worse than sacrilege, I say,
Is it to withhold the day
From the brother whom thou knowest
For the God thou never sawest!
Reverently, O marble cold,
Thee in living arms I fold!
Thou who art thyself the way
From the darkness to the day,
Window, thou, to every land,
Wouldst not one dread moment stand
Shutting out the air and sky
And the dayspring from on high!
Brother with the rugged crown,
Gently thus I lift thee down!
Give me pick and hammer; you
Stand aside; the deed I'll do.
Yes, in truth, I have small skill,
But the best thing is the will.
Stroke on stroke! The frescoed plaster
Clashes downward, fast and faster.
Hark, I hear an outer stone
Down the rough rock rumbling thrown!
There's a cranny! there's a crack!
The great sun is at its back!
Lo, a mass is outward flung!
In the universe hath sprung!
See the gold upon the blue!
See the sun come blinding through!
See the far-off mountain shine
In the dazzling light divine!
Prisoned world, thy captive's gone!
Welcome wind, and sky, and sun!
Urg'd by the warmth of Friendship's sacred flame,
But more by all the glories of thy fame;
By all those offsprings of thy learned mind,
In judgment solid, as in wit refin'd,
Resolv'd I sing: Tho' lab'ring up the way
To reach my theme, O Swift, accept my lay.
Rapt by the force of thought, and rais'd above,
Thro' Contemplation's airy fields I rove;
Where pow'rful Fancy purifies my eye,
And lights the beauties of a brighter sky;
Fresh paints the meadows, bids green shades ascend,
Clear rivers wind, and op'ning plains extend;
Then fills its landscape thro' the vary'd parts
With Virtues, Graces, Sciences, and Arts:
Superiour Forms, of more than mortal air,
More large than mortals, more serenely fair.
Of these two Chiefs, the guardians of thy name,
Conspire to raise thee to the point of fame.
Ye Future Times, I heard the silver sound!
I saw the Graces form a circle round!
Each, where she fix'd, attentive seem'd to root,
And all, but Eloquence herself, was mute.
High o'er the rest I see the Goddess rise,
Loose to the breeze her upper garment flies:
By turns, within her eyes the Passions burn,
And softer Passions languish in their turn:
Upon her tongue Persuasion, or Command;
And decent Action dwells upon her hand.
From out her breast ('twas there the treasure lay)
She drew thy labours to the blaze of day.
Then gaz'd, and read the charms she could inspire,
And taught the list'ning audience to admire,
How strong thy flight, how large thy grasp of thought,
How just thy schemes, how regularly wrought;
How sure you wound when Ironies deride,
Which must be seen, and feign to turn aside.
'Twas thus exploring she rejoic'd to see
Her brightest features drawn so near by thee:
Then here, she cries, let future ages dwell,
And learn to copy where they can't excel.
She spake. Applause attended on the close:
Then Poesy, her sister-art, arose;
Her fairer sister, born in deeper ease,
Not made so much for bus'ness, more to please.
Upon her cheek sits Beauty, ever young;
The Soul of Music warbles on her tongue;
Bright in her eyes a pleasing Ardour glows,
And from her heart the sweetest Temper flows:
A laurel-wreath adorns her curls of hair,
And binds their order to the dancing air:
She shakes the colours of her radiant wing,
And, from the Spheres, she takes a pitch to sing.
Thrice happy Genius his, whose Works have hit
The lucky point of bus'ness and of wit.
They seem like show'rs, which April months prepare
To call their flow'ry glories up to air:
The drops descending, take the painted bow,
And dress with sunshine, while for good they flow.
To me retiring oft, he finds relief
In slowly-wasting care, and biting grief:
From me retreating oft, he gives to view
What eases care and grief in others too.
Ye fondly grave, be wise enough to know,
'Life ne'er unbent were but a life of woe.'
Some full in stretch for greatness, some for gain,
On his own rack each puts himself to pain.
I'll gently steal you from your toils away,
Where balmy winds with scents ambrosial play;
Where, on the banks as crystal rivers flow,
They teach immortal amarants to grow:
Then, from the mild indulgence of the scene,
Restore your tempers strong for toils again.
She ceas'd: Soft music trembled in the wind,
And sweet delight diffus'd thro' ev'ry mind:
The little Smiles, which still the Goddess grace,
Sportive arose, and ran from face to face.
But chief (and in that place the Virtues bless)
A gentle band their eager joys express:
Here Friendship asks, and Love of Merit longs
To hear the Goddesses renew their songs;
Here great Benevolence to Man is pleas'd;
These own their Swift, and grateful hear him prais'd.
You gentle band, you well may bear your part,
You reign Superior Graces in his heart.
O swift! if fame be life, (as well we know
That Bards and Heroes have esteem'd it so)
Thou canst not wholly die; thy works will shine
To future times, and Life in Fame be thine.
You made pasta for you and the kids
I looked on longingly; pasta looks good,
so very good, it is comfort food
I dished up potatoes for myself, some
meat, that was that – while you lot tucked
into your great-looking pasta dish
Too wonderful to describe – afterwards
I promised myself just a very small
bite, just to taste
Just to remind me of what it’s like
one bite led to another and another and
another - I fell into temptation
It was amazing… This morning I sit
at my desk, doing my best to concentrate,
but pain is taking my thoughts away
You did not make the rule no pasta
for me; you found it necessary to help
me survive to keep pasta out of my life
But I had to indulge, had to find out for
myself; now once again, all the symptoms
are back; stomach burning, ears aching
Barbed wire in my head; a heart full of
fears… the bane of my life is food, bread,
the staple of life, pasta, fish, everything good
I have to insist that I’m an alien life form,
my digestive system was not  made for this
world, and I want to go back
To wherever I came from, feeling so terribly
sick, feeling so bad, feeling so guilty and sad;
simply because I desired a morsel of
Your lovely, lovely food; it must be a sign
that I don’t belong on this earth; I must find the
place of origin before my birth…
my birth
unplanned
unwanted
my growth
unacknowledged
unnoticed
my achievements
unseen
unnoticed
me
unnoticed
unwanted
my cries
unheard
unanswered
my tears
unseen
undried
my pain
unacknowledged
unhealed
my suffering
unnoticed
unacknowledged
my attemptes
unseen
unnoticed
my heart
unloved
unwarmed
my soul
un cared for
unloved
my life
unneeded
unwanted
my existence
unwanted
unacknowledged
my blood
undried
unseen
my scars
unhealed
unseen
my death
unacknowledged
unnoticed
Beyond the long and often lonely wait,
Beset  by urges strange from deep within
Pulsate demands to culminate
In Motherhood
The gasping presence fights with strength supreme,
And bursting bonds of month-long celled restraint
Brings birth power, awesome yet serene
To Motherhood
Wakes new a love unique, and all=consumes
The momentary fret at life's emerge.
Repays with joy in hearts attuned
With Motherhood.
Never cell so warm or sweet the chains
Of jailor's irresistable commands.
Crying everlasting claims
On Motherhood.
Offspring of love, and herald of yet more.
Bequething back inherited content.
Open wide this most rewarding door
Of Motherhood.
Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth,
Love is like a rose the joy of all the earth;
Faith is like a lily lifted high and white,
Love is like a lovely rose the world's delight;
Harebells and sweet lilies show a thornless growth,
But the rose with all its thorns excels them both.
I
This morning I thought how easy
it must have been for you
to have copied your genetic code
in the form of flesh, dated randomly
on that bleak day in December
when the light had the dull luster
of pewter and the blinds had to be drawn.
The day ended my tenancy
in the womb which you otherwise
ripped out of your daily planner,
and being the unwanted, the mistake,
had given up in offering
like the body and blood of Christ.
Every day I struggled
to carry the weight of a lesson,
a refugee of abandonment, reading
through the pages of Catechism books
just before the Crucifixion,
practicing forgiveness.
Now, I must live with the side effects
of an uncommon childhood
like an addiction: a returned identity card,
the genetic code lost in the blood of the unborn―
those blueprints of family history
that build the strong bones of a monument,
revised by the thin scrawl of your signature
on a line that forever divides.
II
If to gaze into that mirror
as though the glass is convex―
if we could first look inward,
then outward―
if we could study profile like the face
of a moon in each of its phases―
would we find our identity?
How much of you would I see
at each angle― full, half, quartered―
that I would not have seen
in the mirror handed me
had its glass not been convex?
What do I know of you
in my arched brow?
In the discharged turmoil
of my eye?  In a single gesture?
What do I know
in learning to give up, give back, give away,
that I would not have known
had I been of the same will?
III
I cannot find you
down those stairways
that lead into the deepest catacombs
of family history, buried treasure,
a chest sealed years ago
in the shadow of your footprints;
in the dust of light beams
through the windows in the hall of records.
Nor can I see you in the genetic code
that cannot be deciphered―
those diseases that will torment the blood,
and in the pain that encapsules
our time-released lives―
although
that is where I will find you.
As women are full with their
unborn children, so it is that
I am filled with my unborn words.
As a mother who loves her child
that is yet to be seen, so to, do I
yearn for words which are unborn
and lie in darkness.
I say to myself, 'come to the light,
come forth from me, that I might
see you...so that I might see my
child that is born of thought.'
© Joe Fazio
You gave me love,
you breathed life into me.
After I found you,
I've found all hapiness.
Ever since my heart found shelter in your eyes,
I felt as if I really live,
I really exist,
I was a dream,
I've become real for you.
No more grouse I hold agaisnt destiny,
now that I've known you from so close.
Now that I have you,
I've found a world of joy.
In your eyes I have seen myself in this world.
I really live,
I really exist,
I was a dream,
I've become real for you.
I love you
MY UNENDING BIRTH AND DEATH
esspeecee… 27.10.96.
Birth,
Death-
I take:
In million ways,
In million forms,
In million places,
In million times.
Born:
As aquatic,
Thousand leagues under-
Serene Sea bed.
Born:
As bacteria, parasite,
A vexing guest-
In living flesh.
Born:
As plants,
In cozy darkness-
Rooted deep under earth.
Born:
As Homo sapiens,
In the snug shelter-
Mothers’ womb.
Born and die-
In mega form,
In micro form,
And in every shape
and size,
Imaginable,
Unimaginable,
Tangible,
Intangible,
Cognizable,
In-cognizable and so on…
I born and die
Every second,
In infinitesimal
Fraction of time.
Time fails
To restrict me.
I rejoice
The ‘Omni-Oneness’
Both in
Ecstasy of birth,
Dulcet of death.
Know well
Destined to
Die and born
Again and again,
In unending cycle
In ever new cycle.
Copyright reserved by the Author
I.
1 .
The fading beam of parting day
Forsakes the western sky,
Now shines Diana's gentler ray
With virgin majesty;
Her face with milder glory bright
Illumes the dusky shades of night,
And brings the varied scene to view.
The glassy lake, and bubbling stream,
Again reflect the borrow'd beam,
And take a silver hue.
2 .
From the deep shade of yonder trees
The screaming night-birds call,
While floats on Zephyr's balmy breeze
The distant waterfall:
Sad Philomela's warbling throat
Pours to the moon her plaintive note
And charms the lay-resounding grove,
Where, trembling at the gentle gale,
The verdant beech, and poplar pale,
With rustling murmurs move.
3 .
What dreadful sounds arise?—
These notes of rural music sink
And shrill-ton'd clarions rend the skies;
The air a voice of triumph chears,
And lo! a form divine appears
On Cherwell's sedgy brink.
His azure length of robe behind
Loosely wantons in the wind;
Glowing like the vernal morning
Beams benign his eye-balls shed;
Ceres' wealth his brows adorning
Shades his venerable head.
Say heavenly vision what these notes portend?
Sits white-wing'd Victory on Britannia's arms?
Does proud Iberia to her legions bend,
Or flies the Gaul at Granby's dread alarms,
Or stalks on India's sun-burn'd coasts afar
The force of conflict keen, and giant rage of war?
II.
1.
‘Far hence,’ he cried, ‘the tumult's roar
‘To distant realms shall fly:
‘Mirth revels now on Albion's shore
‘With blythe festivity.
‘Ye Muses twine each fragant flower
‘To crown the day, to crown the hour,
‘Which gave to George a blooming heir;
‘Ye Guardians of this favor'd isle
‘On this your future monarch smile,
‘Ye Nymphs your wreaths prepare.
2 .
‘Come happy child! delight the land
‘Where time shall fix thy throne:
‘O come, and take from Freedom's hand
‘A sceptre all her own:
‘And when the sacred lore of truth
‘Display'd, shall form thy ripening youth,
‘May every joyful Briton find
‘The soul of George's godlike race,
‘With lovely Charlotte's softer grace,
‘Attemper'd, in thy mind.
3 .
‘For thee on Afric's sultry coast
‘The British ensign proudly waves;
‘For thee by distant tempests tost
‘Our navies awe the Gallic pride
‘On every shore, whose hostile side
‘The boundless Ocean laves.—
‘With nobler skill, and fiercer fire,
‘Strike the rapture-breathing lyre.—
‘Hark!—from Cambria's cloud-top'd mountains
‘Music winds her stream along,
‘As they flow the crystal fountains
‘Listen to the jocund song,
‘Lo radiant forms and glorious shades appear,
‘Fair as the morn in saffron mantle dight;
‘But strains divine ill suit the human ear,
‘And fleeting visions mock the mortal sight.’—
He said, and rushing from my wondering eyes,
On volley'd lightening borne, he sought his native skies.
'Tis Nancy's birth-day--raise your strains,
Ye nymphs of the Parnassian plains,
And sing with more than usual glee
To Nancy, who was born for me.
Tell the blythe Graces as they bound,
Luxuriant in the buxom round;
They're not more elegantly free,
Than Nancy, who was born for me.
Tell royal Venus, tho' she rove,
The queen of the immortal grove,
That she must share her golden fee
With Nancy, who was born for me.
Tell Pallas, tho' th'Athenian school,
And ev'ry trite pedantic fool,
On her to place the palm agree,
'Tis Nancy's, who was born for me.
Tell spotless Dian, tho' she range,
The regent of the up-land grange,
In chastity she yields to thee,
O Nancy, who was born for me.
Tell Cupid, Hymen, and tell Jove,
With all the pow'rs of life and love,
That I'd disdain to breathe or be,
If Nancy was not born for me.
Stella this Day is thirty four,
(We shan't dispute a Year or more)
However Stella, be not troubled,
Although thy Size and Years are doubled,
Since first I saw Thee at Sixteen
The brightest Virgin on the Green,
So little is thy Form declin'd
Made up so largely in thy Mind.
Oh, woud it please the Gods to split
Thy Beauty, Size, and Years, and Wit,
No Age could furnish out a Pair
Of Nymphs so graceful, Wise and fair
With half the Lustre of your Eyes,
With half your Wit, your Years and Size:
And then before it grew too late,
How should I beg of gentle Fate,
(That either Nymph might have her Swain,)
To split my Worship too in twain.
While yet it was the Empire of the Night,
And Stars still check'r'd Darkness with their Light,
From Temples round the cheerful Bells did ring,
But with the Peales a churlish Storm did sing.
I slumbr'd; and the Heavens like things did show,
Like things which I had seen and heard below.
Playing on Harps Angels did singing fly,
But through a cloudy and a troubl'd Sky,
Some fixt a Throne, and Royal Robes display'd,
And then a Massie Cross upon it laid.
I wept: and earnestly implor'd to know,
Why Royal Ensigns were disposed so.
An Angel said, The Emblem thou hast seen,
Denotes the Birth-Day of a Saint and Queen.
Ah, Glorious Minister, I then reply'd,
Goodness and Bliss together do reside
In Heaven and thee, why then on Earth below
These two combin'd so rarely do we know?
He said, Heaven so decrees: and such a Sable Morne
Was that, in which the Son of God was borne.
Then Mortal wipe thine Eyes, and cease to rave,
God darkn'd Heaven, when He the World did save.
Mark the day white, on which the Fates have smiled:
Eugenio and Egeria have a child.
On whom abundant grace kind Jove imparts
If she but copy either parent's parts.
Then, Muses! long devoted to her race,
Grant her Egeria's virtues and her face;
Nor stop your bounty there, but add to it
Eugenio's learning and Eugenio's wit.
Families, when a child is born
Want it to be intelligent.
I, through intelligence,
Having wrecked my whole life,
Only hope the baby will prove
Ignorant and stupid.
Then he will crown a tranquil life
By becoming a Cabinet Minister.
His father's sense, his mother's grace,
In him I hope, will always fit so;
With--still to keep him in good case--
The health and appetite of Rizzo.
Climbing a path which leads back never more
We heard behind his footsteps and his cheer;
Now, face to face, we greet him standing here
Upon the lonely summit of Fourscore
Welcome to us, o'er whom the lengthened day
Is closing and the shadows colder grow,
His genial presence, like an afterglow,
Following the one just vanishing away.
Long be it ere the table shall be set
For the last breakfast of the Autocrat,
And love repeat with smiles and tears thereat
His own sweet songs that time shall not forget.
Waiting with us the call to come up higher,
Life is not less, the heavens are only higher!
I am not yet born; O hear me.
Let not the bloodsucking bat or the rat or the stoat or the
club-footed ghoul come near me.
I am not yet born, console me.
I fear that the human race may with tall walls wall me,
with strong drugs dope me, with wise lies lure me,
on black racks rack me, in blood-baths roll me.
I am not yet born; provide me
With water to dandle me, grass to grow for me, trees to talk
to me, sky to sing to me, birds and a white light
in the back of my mind to guide me.
I am not yet born; forgive me
For the sins that in me the world shall commit, my words
when they speak me, my thoughts when they think me,
my treason engendered by traitors beyond me,
my life when they murder by means of my
hands, my death when they live me.
I am not yet born; rehearse me
In the parts I must play and the cues I must take when
old men lecture me, bureaucrats hector me, mountains
frown at me, lovers laugh at me, the white
waves call me to folly and the desert calls
me to doom and the beggar refuses
my gift and my children curse me.
I am not yet born; O hear me,
Let not the man who is beast or who thinks he is God
come near me.
I am not yet born; O fill me
With strength against those who would freeze my
humanity, would dragoon me into a lethal automaton,
would make me a cog in a machine, a thing with
one face, a thing, and against all those
who would dissipate my entirety, would
blow me like thistledown hither and
thither or hither and thither
like water held in the
hands would spill me.
Let them not make me a stone and let them not spill me.
Otherwise kill me.
How long can stay the happiness?
How long can stay the sadness?
Nothing in this world can go always up
Nothing in this world can go only down.
Nothing in this world remains the same forever.
As the day changes to night,
And the night changes to day.
As the cold changes to warm,
and warm changes to cold.
As this natural law always changes everything,
up to down and down to up.
So long as there is nothing without an opposite, smile...
The Death will change to Birth!
Not in this chamber only at my birth—
When the long hours of that mysterious night
Were over, and the morning was in sight—
I cried, but in strange places, steppe and firth
I have not seen, through alien grief and mirth;
And never shall one room contain me quite
Who in so many rooms first saw the light,
Child of all mothers, native of the earth.
So is no warmth for me at any fire
To-day, when the world's fire has burned so low;
I kneel, spending my breath in vain desire,
At that cold hearth which one time roared so strong,
And straighten back in weariness, and long
To gather up my little gods and go.
Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,
Some in their wealth, some in their body's force,
Some in their garments though new-fangled ill,
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse;
And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,
But these particulars are not my measure;
All these I better in one general best.
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' costs,
Of more delight than hawks and horses be;
And having thee, of all men's pride I boast—
Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take,
All this away and me most wretched make.
As when desire, long darkling, dawns, and first
The mother looks upon the newborn child,
Even so my Lady stood at gaze and smiled
When her soul knew at length the Love it nurs'd.
Born with her life, creature of poignant thirst
And exquisite hunger, at her heart Love lay
Quickening in darkness, till a voice that day
Cried on him, and the bonds of birth were burst.
Now, shadowed by his wings, our faces yearn
Together, as his full-grown feet now range
The grove, and his warm hands our couch prepare:
Till to his song our bodiless souls in turn
Be born his children, when Death's nuptial change
Leaves us for light the halo of his hair.
This starry dawn – the wise men yet afar –
the shepherds are abed, their night’s task done.
Is Mary tired? Or, as one untouched?
All birth’s a miracle; no less this one.
The cattle have bestirred at hint of morn,
the thought of feeding making moist their muzzle;
straw is rustling as they, manger-drawn,
find unfamiliar form – so warm – to nuzzle.
What were the first words Joseph softly said
to Mary, as dawn broke, this day of days?
And who, sent from the inn to cattle-shed,
to feed and lay fresh straw, fell still in praise?
How long, this morn, before the murmured sound
of voices in the street, as Word gets round?
Have you not noted, in some family
Where two were born of a first marriage-bed,
How still they own their gracious bond, though fed
And nursed on the forgotten breast and knee?—
How to their father's children they shall be
In act and thought of one goodwill; but each
Shall for the other have, in silence speech,
And in a word complete community?
Even so, when first I saw you, seemed it, love,
That among souls allied to mine was yet
One nearer kindred than life hinted of.
O born with me somewhere that men forget,
And though in years of sight and sound unmet,
Known for my soul's birth-partner well enough!
When you were born, beloved, was your soul
New made by God to match your body's flower,
And were they both at one same precious hour
Sent forth from heaven as a perfect whole?
Or had your soul since dim creation burned,
A star in some still region of the sky,
That leaping earthward, left its place on high
And to your little new-born body yearned?
No words can tell in what celestial hour
God made your soul and gave it mortal birth,
Nor in the disarray of all the stars
Is any place so sweet that such a flower
Might linger there until thro' heaven's bars,
It heard God's voice that bade it down to earth.
All travellers at first incline
Where'er they see the fairest sign
And if they find the chambers neat,
And like the liquor and the meat,
Will call again, and recommend
The Angel Inn to every friend.
And though the painting grows decay'd,
The house will never lose its trade:
Nay, though the treach'rous tapster, Thomas,
Hangs a new Angel two doors from us,
As fine as daubers' hands can make it,
In hopes that strangers may mistake it,
We think it both a shame and sin
To quit the true old Angel Inn.
Now this is Stella's case in fact,
An angel's face a little crack'd.
(Could poets or could painters fix
How angels look at thirty-six
This drew us in at first to find
In such a form an angel's mind;
And every virtue now supplies
The fainting rays of Stella's eyes.
See, at her levee crowding swains,
Whom Stella freely entertains
With breeding, humour, wit, and sense,
And puts them to so small expense;
Their minds so plentifully fills,
And makes such reasonable bills,
So little gets for what she gives,
We really wonder how she lives!
And had her stock been less, no doubt
She must have long ago run out.
Then, who can think we'll quit the place,
When Doll hangs out a newer face?
Nail'd to her window full in sight
All Christian people to invite.
Or stop and light at Chloe's head,
With scraps and leavings to be fed?
Then, Chloe, still go on to prate
Of thirty-six and thirty-eight;
Pursue your trade of scandal-picking,
Your hints that Stella is no chicken;
Your innuendoes, when you tell us,
That Stella loves to talk with fellows:
But let me warn you to believe
A truth, for which your soul should grieve;
That should you live to see the day,
When Stella's locks must all be gray,
When age must print a furrow'd trace
On every feature of her face;
Though you, and all your senseless tribe,
Could Art, or Time, or Nature bribe,
To make you look like Beauty's Queen,
And hold for ever at fifteen;
No bloom of youth can ever blind
The cracks and wrinkles of your mind:
All men of sense will pass your door,
And crowd to Stella's at four-score.
As when a beauteous nymph decays,
We say she's past her dancing days;
So poets lose their feet by time,
And can no longer dance in rhyme.
Your annual bard had rather chose
To celebrate your birth in prose:
Yet merry folks, who want by chance
A pair to make a country dance,
Call the old housekeeper, and get her
To fill a place for want of better:
While Sheridan is off the hooks,
And friend Delany at his books,
That Stella may avoid disgrace,
Once more the Dean supplies their place.
Beauty and wit, too sad a truth!
Have always been confined to youth;
The god of wit and beauty's queen,
He twenty-one and she fifteen,
No poet ever sweetly sung,
Unless he were, like Phoebus, young;
Nor ever nymph inspired to rhyme,
Unless, like Venus, in her prime.
At fifty-six, if this be true,
Am I a poet fit for you?
Or, at the age of forty-three,
Are you a subject fit for me?
Adieu! bright wit, and radiant eyes!
You must be grave and I be wise.
Our fate in vain we would oppose:
But I'll be still your friend in prose:
Esteem and friendship to express,
Will not require poetic dress;
And if the Muse deny her aid
To have them sung, they may be said.
But, Stella, say, what evil tongue
Reports you are no longer young;
That Time sits with his scythe to mow
Where erst sat Cupid with his bow;
That half your locks are turn'd to gray?
I'll ne'er believe a word they say.
'Tis true, but let it not be known,
My eyes are somewhat dimmish grown;
For nature, always in the right,
To your decays adapts my sight;
And wrinkles undistinguished pass,
For I'm ashamed to use a glass:
And till I see them with these eyes,
Whoever says you have them, lies.
No length of time can make you quit
Honour and virtue, sense and wit;
Thus you may still be young to me,
While I can better hear than see.
O ne'er may Fortune show her spite,
To make me deaf, and mend my sight!
The words
come to me
demanding to be
written
& are bitterly
disappointed
to find that I am
me
not
you.
Somehow, they had managed to
turn up in the wrong head
mistaking me for you
because I was thinking
so much
of you.
Too late now
they come to realise
their mistake.
Reluctantly they
agree to stay & be
this
poem.
I can see they are not
impressed.
Missing Bulgaria & ending up
in England in an Irish head
is bad but badder still
geting the sex wrong
& being this guy!
A word breaks down
begins to cry.
'She's got what the Arabs call tarab! '
one word is heard to remark.
Yes...yes it's that  intoxication of the senses
beyond all reason! '
another word elucidates....almost hallucinates.
'Hey shit for brains! '
a bunch of words cruelly calls
'Onelia would have written us
better than this! '
Some words try to hide
in the space between the lines.
Some words hide
in the surrounding empty space
refusing to come out
or even talk about
...'it! '
Some words live lives
of quiet desperation
silently
erasing themselves.
Some words hijack
this page
& turning it into
a paper aeroplane
demand to be
taken to Sofia.
They are already incensed
to have missed your birthday.
So, if by your dreaming head
a paper aeroplane appears
full of frustrated distraught
words
take them
they are yours.
You the better poet
than I could ever be.
You... the great you
me...merely me.
I.
Mark this holy chapel well!
The birth-place, this, of William Tell.
Here, where stands God's altar dread,
Stood his parent's marriage-bed.
II.
Here, first, an infant to her breast,
Him his loving mother prest;
And kissed the babe, and blessed the day,
And prayed as mothers used to pray.
III.
'Vouchsafe him health, O God! and give
The child thy servant still to live!'
But God had destined to do more
Through him than through an armed power.
IV.
God gave him reverence of laws,
Yet stirring blood in Freedom's cause--
A spirit to his rocks akin,
The eye of the hawk and the fire therein!
V.
To Nature and to Holy Writ
Alone did God the boy commit:
Where flashed and roared the torrent, oft
His soul found wings, and soared aloft!
VI.
The straining oar and chamois chase
Had formed his limbs to strength and grace:
On wave and wind the boy would toss,
Was great, nor knew how great he was!
VII.
He knew not that his chosen hand,
Made strong by God, his native land
Would rescue from the shameful yoke
Of Slavery -- the which he broke!
The Angel that presided o'er my birth
Said, 'Little creature, form'd of Joy and Mirth,
'Go love without the help of any Thing on Earth.'
From The Birth Canal of The Womb
The Lifeblood Flowed and Zoomed
The Umbilical Stretched From The Navel
Twisted, Like Some Undersea Cable
Forty-Two Hours In Hard Labor
The Mother Begged For GOD’s Favor
To Help Deliver This Child
And Please Shorten This Pain Trial
The Enfant Kicked  1 … 2 … 3
So Impatient To Be Set Free
The Woman Was Bent On Being Brave
Until There Came The Next Big Wave
1 … 2 … 3 … Breathe, Breathe
Her Husband Coached So Tenderly
He Could Only Watch Helplessly
… It Humbled Him Mightily
1 … 2 … 3 …  Breathe,  Breathe
Still No Sign From Between Her Knees
1 … 2 … 3 … Push, Push
She Yelled So Loud, She Couldn’t Hush
“Inside, The Child Surged Strongly
It’s As Though, It Fought Knowingly
It Was Now Or Never
To Not Be Prematurely Severed”
1 … 2 … 3 … Push, Push
Finally The Head Began To Gush
One, Two …  and One Big Push
What A Relief and What A Rush!
* * * * *
They Named Their Baby, Bravura
Their Image In A Miniature Mirror
Eight Pounds Of A Cuddly Doll Toy
A Beautiful, Tiny Bundle Of Joy
A Thatch Of Black Curls On Her Head
Yeah, She Got That From Her Dad
Red Splotched Skin Like A Little Tomato
And That’s Her Mama’s Nose, You Know
Smallest fingers and Toes Complete
Yawning Toothless, But Looks So Sweet
But The Breath-Catching Thrill and Prize …
Was The Moment She Opened Her Eyes
And Looked At Mommie As Tho She Knew
She Was Safe and Much Loved Too
Wrapped In A Pink Blanket and Hugs
Daddy Beamed When She Gave Thumb A Tug …
The First Touch With Her Father
Eyes Swam As He Kissed His Daughter
Young Couple Gazed With Fervor
They Reveled In The Birth Of Bravura
Forgotten, Was The Prior Terror
Forgotten Was The Painful Error
They Could Laugh At Any Furor
As They Held Their Baby, Bravura
Proud Parents Of Baby Bravura
Were Determined To Be Good Mentors
Tho’ Doc Said Ischemia Disease
They Just Held Each Other and Squeezed …
The Girl, Was Named Bravura
No Child Could Be Any Dearer
She Held All Their Hopes and Dreams
This Little, Living Precious Being
So Pretty and Such A Darling
Hoped She’d Aspire To Great Things
They Named The Baby …  Bravura
‘Cause Need For Courage Couldn’t Be Any Clearer
Written & ©:  6/29/10
By:    The  MoonBee
Muse of my Spenser, who so well could sing
The passions all, their bearings and their ties;
Who could in view those shadowy beings bring,
And with bold hand remove each dark disguise,
Wherein love, hatred, scorn, or anger lies:
Guide him to Fairy-land, who now intends
That way his flight; assist him as he flies,
To mark those passions, Virtue's foes and friends,
By whom when led she droops, when leading she ascends.
Yes! they appear, I see the fairy train!
And who that modest nymph of meek address?
Not vanity, though loved by all the vain;
Not Hope, though promising to all success;
Not Mirth, nor Joy, though foe to all distress;
Thee, sprightly syren, from this train I choose,
Thy birth relate, thy soothing arts confess;
'Tis not in thy mild nature to refuse,
When poets ask thine aid, so oft their meed and muse.
---------------------
In Fairy-land, on wide and cheerless plain,
Dwelt, in the house of Care a sturdy swain;
A hireling he, who, when he till'd the soil,
Look'd to the pittance that repaid his toil,
And to a master left the mingled joy
And anxious care that follow'd his employ.
Sullen and patient he at once appear'd,
As one who murmur'd, yet as one who fear'd;
Th'attire was coarse that clothed his sinewy frame,
Rude his address, and Poverty his name.
In that same plain a nymph, of curious taste,
A cottage (plann'd, with all her skill) had placed;
Strange the materials, and for what design'd
The various parts, no simple man might find;
What seem'd the door, each entering guest withstood,
What seem'd a window was but painted wood;
But by a secret spring the wall would move,
And daylight drop through glassy door above:
'Twas all her pride, new traps for praise to lay,
And all her wisdom was to hide her way;
In small attempts incessant were her pains,
And Cunning was her name among the swains.
Now, whether fate decreed this pair should wed,
And blindly drove them to the marriage bed;
Or whether love in some soft hour inclined
The damsel's heart, and won her to be kind,
Is yet unsung: they were an ill-match'd pair,
But both disposed to wed--and wed they were.
Yet, though united in their fortune, still
Their ways were diverse; varying was their will;
Nor long the maid had bless'd the simple man,
Before dissensions rose, and she began: -
'Wretch that I am! since to thy fortune bound,
What plan, what project, with success is crown'd?
I, who a thousand secret arts possess,
Who every rank approach with right address;
Who've loosed a guinea from a miser's chest,
And worm'd his secret from a traitor's breast;
Thence gifts and gains collecting, great and small,
Have brought to thee, and thou consum'st them all;
For want like thine--a bog without a base -
Ingulfs all gains I gather for the place;
Feeding, unfill'd; destroying, undestroy'd;
It craves for ever, and is ever void: -
Wretch that I am! what misery have I found,
Since my sure craft was to thy calling bound!'
'Oh! vaunt of worthless art,' the swain replied,
Scowling contempt, 'how pitiful this pride!
What are these specious gifts, these paltry gains,
But base rewards for ignominious pains?
With all thy tricking, still for bread we strive,
Thine is, proud wretch! the care that cannot thrive;
By all thy boasted skill and baffled hooks,
Thou gain'st no more than students by their books.
No more than I for my poor deeds am paid,
Whom none can blame, will help, or dare upbraid.
'Call this our need, a bog that all devours, -
Then what thy petty arts, but summer-flowers,
Gaudy and mean, and serving to betray
The place they make unprofitably gay?
Who know it not, some useless beauties see, -
But ah! to prove it was reserved for me.'
Unhappy state! that, in decay of love,
Permits harsh truth his errors to disprove;
While he remains, to wrangle and to jar,
Is friendly tournament, not fatal war;
Love in his play will borrow arms of hate,
Anger and rage, upbraiding and debate;
And by his power the desperate weapons thrown,
Become as safe and pleasant as his own;
But left by him, their natures they assume,
And fatal, in their poisoning force, become.
Time fled, and now the swain compell'd to see
New cause for fear--'Is this thy thrift?' quoth he,
To whom the wife with cheerful voice replied: -
'Thou moody man, lay all thy fears aside;
I've seen a vision--they, from whom I came,
A daughter promise, promise wealth and fame;
Born with my features, with my arts, yet she
Shall patient, pliant, persevering be,
And in thy better ways resemble thee.
The fairies round shall at her birth attend,
The friend of all in all shall find a friend,
And save that one sad star that hour must gleam
On our fair child, how glorious were my dream?'
This heard the husband, and, in surly smile,
Aim'd at contempt, but yet he hoped the while;
For as, when sinking, wretched men are found
To catch at rushes rather than be drown'd;
So on a dream our peasant placed his hope,
And found that rush as valid as a rope.
Swift fled the days, for now in hope they fled,
When a fair daughter bless'd the nuptial bed;
Her infant-face the mother's pains beguiled,
She look'd so pleasing and so softly smiled;
Those smiles, those looks, with sweet sensations moved
The gazer's soul, and as he look'd he loved.
And now the fairies came with gifts, to grace
So mild a nature, and so fair a face.
They gave, with beauty, that bewitching art,
That holds in easy chains the human heart;
They gave her skill to win the stubborn mind,
To make the suffering to their sorrows blind,
To bring on pensive looks the pleasing smile,
And Care's stern brow of every frown beguile.
These magic favours graced the infant-maid,
Whose more enlivening smile the charming gifts repaid.
Now Fortune changed, who, were she constant long,
Would leave us few adventures for our song.
A wicked elfin roved this land around,
Whose joys proceeded from the griefs he found;
Envy his name: --his fascinating eye
From the light bosom drew the sudden sigh;
Unsocial he, but with malignant mind,
He dwelt with man, that he might curse mankind;
Like the first foe, he sought th' abode of Joy
Grieved to behold, but eager to destroy;
Round blooming beauty, like the wasp, he flew,
Soil'd the fresh sweet, and changed the rosy hue;
The wise, the good, with anxious heart he saw,
And here a failing found, and there a flaw;
Discord in families 'twas his to move,
Distrust in friendship, jealousy in love;
He told the poor, what joys the great possess'd;
The great, what calm content the cottage bless'd:
To part the learned and the rich he tried,
Till their slow friendship perish'd in their pride.
Such was the fiend, and so secure of prey,
That only Misery pass'd unstung away.
Soon as he heard the fairy-babe was born,
Scornful he smiled, but felt no more than scorn:
For why, when Fortune placed her state so low,
In useless spite his lofty malice show?
Why, in a mischief of the meaner kind,
Exhaust the vigour of a ranc'rous mind;
But, soon as Fame the fairy-gifts proclaim'd,
Quick-rising wrath his ready soul inflamed
To swear, by vows that e'en the wicked tie,
The nymph should weep her varied destiny;
That every gift, that now appear'd to shine
In her fair face, and make her smiles divine,
Should all the poison of his magic prove,
And they should scorn her, whom she sought for love.
His spell prepared, in form an ancient dame,
A fiend in spirit, to the cot he came;
There gain'd admittance, and the infant press'd
(Muttering his wicked magic) to his breast;
And thus he said: --'Of all the powers who wait
On Jove's decrees, and do the work of fate,
Was I, alone, despised or worthless, found,
Weak to protect, or impotent to wound?
See then thy foe, regret the friendship lost,
And learn my skill, but learn it at your cost.
'Know, then, O child! devote to fates severe,
The good shall hate thy name, the wise shall fear;
Wit shall deride, and no protecting friend
Thy shame shall cover, or thy name defend.
Thy gentle sex, who, more than ours, should spare
A humble foe, will greater scorn declare;
The base alone thy advocates shall be,
Or boast alliance with a wretch like thee.'
He spake, and vanish'd, other prey to find,
And waste in slow disease the conquer'd mind.
Awed by the elfin's threats, and fill'd with dread
The parents wept, and sought their infant's bed;
Despair alone the father's soul possess'd;
But hope rose gently in the mother's breast;
For well she knew that neither grief nor joy
Pain'd without hope, or pleased without alloy;
And while these hopes and fears her heart divide,
A cheerful vision bade the fears subside.
She saw descending to the world below
An ancient form, with solemn pace and slow.
'Daughter, no more be sad' (the phantom cried),
'Success is seldom to the wise denied;
In idle wishes fools supinely stay,
Be there a will, and wisdom finds a way:
Why art thou grieved? Be rather glad, that he
Who hates the happy, aims his darts at thee,
But aims in vain; thy favour'd daughter lies
Serenely blest, and shall to joy arise.
For, grant that curses on her name shall wait,
(So Envy wills, and such the voice of Fate,)
Yet if that name be prudently suppress'd,
She shall be courted, favour'd, and caress'd.
'For what are names? and where agree mankind,
In those to persons or to acts assign'd?
Brave, learn'd, or wise, if some their favourites call,
Have they the titles or the praise from all?
Not so, but others will the brave disdain
As rash, and deem the sons of wisdom vain;
The self-same mind shall scorn or kindness move,
And the same deed attract contempt and love.
'So all the powers who move the human soul,
With all the passions who the will control,
Have various names--One giv'n by Truth Divine,
(As Simulation thus was fixed for mine,)
The rest by man, who now, as wisdom's prize
My secret counsels, now as art despise;
One hour, as just, those counsels they embrace,
And spurn, the next, as pitiful and base.
Thee, too, my child, those fools as Cunning fly,
Who on thy counsel and thy craft rely;
That worthy craft in others they condemn,
But 'tis their prudence, while conducting them.
'Be FLATTERY, then, thy happy infant's name,
Let Honour scorn her and let Wit defame;
Let all be true that Envy dooms, yet all,
Not on herself, but on her name, shall fall;
While she thy fortune and her own shall raise,
And decent Truth be call'd, and loved as, modest Praise.
'O happy child! the glorious day shall shine,
When every ear shall to thy speech incline,
Thy words alluring and thy voice divine:
The sullen pedant and the sprightly wit,
To hear thy soothing eloquence shall sit;
And both, abjuring Flattery, will agree
That Truth inspires, and they must honour thee.
'Envy himself shall to thy accents bend,
Force a faint smile, and sullenly attend,
When thou shalt call him Virtue's jealous friend,
Whose bosom glows with generous rage to find
How fools and knaves are flatter'd by mankind.
'The sage retired, who spends alone his days,
And flies th' obstreperous voice of public praise;
The vain, the vulgar cry,--shall gladly meet,
And bid thee welcome to his still retreat;
Much will he wonder, how thou cam'st to find
A man to glory dead, to peace consign'd.
O Fame! he'll cry (for he will call thee Fame),
From thee I fly, from thee conceal my name;
But thou shalt say, though Genius takes his night,
He leaves behind a glorious train of light,
And hides in vain: --yet prudent he that flies
The flatterer's art, and for himself is wise.
'Yes, happy child! I mark th'approaching day,
When warring natures will confess thy sway;
When thou shalt Saturn's golden reign restore,
And vice and folly shall be known no more.
'Pride shall not then in human-kind have place,
Changed by thy skill, to Dignity and Grace;
While Shame, who now betrays the inward sense
Of secret ill, shall be thy Diffidence;
Avarice shall thenceforth prudent Forecast be,
And bloody Vengeance, Magnanimity;
The lavish tongue shall honest truths impart,
The lavish hand shall show the generous heart,
And Indiscretion be, contempt of art;
Folly and Vice shall then, no longer known,
Be, this as Virtue, that as Wisdom, shown.
'Then shall the Robber, as the Hero, rise
To seize the good that churlish law denies;
Throughout the world shall rove the generous band,
And deal the gifts of Heaven from hand to hand.
In thy blest days no tyrant shall be seen,
Thy gracious king shall rule contented men;
In thy blest days shall not a rebel be,
But patriots all and well-approved of thee.
'Such powers are thine, that man by thee shall wrest
The gainful secret from the cautious breast;
Nor then, with all his care, the good retain,
But yield to thee the secret and the gain.
In vain shall much experience guard the heart
Against the charm of thy prevailing art;
Admitted once, so soothing is thy strain,
It comes the sweeter, when it comes again;
And when confess'd as thine, what mind so strong
Forbears the pleasure it indulged so long?
'Softener of every ill! of all our woes
The balmy solace! friend of fiercest foes!
Begin thy reign, and like the morning rise!
Bring joy, bring beauty, to our eager eyes;
Break on the drowsy world like opening day,
While grace and gladness join thy flow'ry way;
While every voice is praise, while every heart is gay.
'From thee all prospects shall new beauties take,
'Tis thine to seek them and 'tis thine to make;
On the cold fen I see thee turn thine eyes,
Its mists recede, its chilling vapour flies;
Th'enraptured Lord th'improving ground surveys,
And for his Eden asks the traveller's praise,
Which yet, unview'd of thee, a bog had been,
Where spungy rushes hide the plashy green.
'I see thee breathing on the barren moor,
That seems to bloom although so bleak before;
There, if beneath the gorse the primrose spring,
Or the pied daisy smile below the ling,
They shall new charms, at thy command disclose,
And none shall miss the myrtle or the rose.
The wiry moss, that whitens all the hill,
Shall live a beauty by thy matchless skill;
Gale from the bog shall yield Arabian balm,
And the gray willow give a golden palm.
'I see thee smiling in the pictured room,
Now breathing beauty, now reviving bloom;
There, each immortal name 'tis thine to give,
To graceless forms, and bid the lumber live.
Should'st thou coarse boors or gloomy martyrs see,
These shall thy Guidos, these thy Teniers be;
There shalt thou Raphael's saints and angels trace,
There make for Rubens and for Reynolds place,
And all the pride of art shall find, in her disgrace.
'Delight of either sex? thy reign commence;
With balmy sweetness soothe the weary sense,
And to the sickening soul thy cheering aid dispense.
Queen of the mind! thy golden age begin;
In mortal bosoms varnish shame and sin;
Let all be fair without, let all be calm within.'
The vision fled, the happy mother rose,
Kiss'd the fair infant, smiled at all her foes,
And FLATTERY made her name: --her reign began.
Her own dear sex she ruled, then vanquished man:
A smiling friend, to every class she spoke,
Assumed their manners, and their habits took;
Her, for her humble mien, the modest loved;
Her cheerful looks the light and gay approved:
The just beheld her, firm: the valiant, brave:
Her mirth the free, her silence pleased the grave:
Zeal heard her voice, and, as he preach'd aloud,
Well pleased he caught her whispers from the crowd,
(Those whispers, soothing-sweet to every ear,
Which some refuse to pay, but none to hear):
Shame fled her presence, at her gentle strain,
Care softly smiled, and Guilt forgot its pain:
The wretched thought, the happy found, her true,
The learn'd confess'd that she her merits knew:
The rich--could they a constant friend condemn?
The poor believed--for who should flatter them?
Thus on her name though all disgrace attend,
In every creature she beholds a friend.
When Love was born of heavenly line,
What dire intrigues disturbed Cythera's joy!
Till Venus cried, 'A mother's heart is mine;
None but myself shall nurse my boy,'
But, infant as he was, the child
In that divine embrace enchanted lay;
And, by the beauty of the vase beguiled,
Forgot the beverage--and pined away.
'And must my offspring languish in my sight?'
(Alive to all a mother's pain,
The Queen of Beauty thus her court addressed)
'No: Let the most discreet of all my train
Receive him to her breast:
Think all, he is the God of young delight.'
Then TENDERNESS with CANDOUR joined,
And GAIETY the charming office sought;
Nor even DELICACY stayed behind:
But none of those fair Graces brought
Wherewith to nurse the child--and still he pined.
Some fond hearts to COMPLIANCE seemed inclined;
But she had surely spoiled the boy:
And sad experience forbade a thought
On the wild Goddess of VOLUPTUOUS JOY.
Long undecided lay th' important choice,
Till of the beauteous court, at length, a voice
Pronounced the name of HOPE:--The conscious child
Stretched forth his little arms, and smiled.
'Tis said ENJOYMENT (who averred
The charge belonged to her alone)
Jealous that HOPE had been preferred
Laid snares to make the babe her own.
Of INNOCENCE the garb she took,
The blushing mien and downcast look;
And came her services to proffer:
And HOPE (what has not Hope believed!)
By that seducing air deceived,
Accepted of the offer.
It happened that, to sleep inclined,
Deluded HOPE: for one short hour
To that false INNOCENCE'S power
Her little charge consigned.
The Goddess then her lap with sweetmeats filled
And gave, in handfuls gave, the treacherous store:
A wild delirium first the infant thrilled;
But soon upon her breast he sunk--to wake no more.
A Legend of the Talmud.
I.
When angels visit earth, the messengers
Of God's decree, they come as lightning, wind:
Before the throne, they all are living fire.
There stand four rows of angels-to the right
The hosts of Michael, Gabriel's to the left,
Before, the troop of Ariel, and behind,
The ranks of Raphael; all, with one accord,
Chanting the glory of the Everlasting.
Upon the high and holy throne there rests,
Invisible, the Majesty of God.
About his brows the crown of mystery
Whereon the sacred letters are engraved
Of the unutterable Name. He grasps
A sceptre of keen fire; the universe
Is compassed in His glance; at His right hand
Life stands, and at His left hand standeth Death.
II.
Lo, the divine idea of making man
Had spread abroad among the heavenly hosts;
And all at once before the immortal throne
Pressed troops of angels and of seraphim,
With minds opposed, and contradicting cries:
'Fulfill, great Father, thine exalted thought!
Create and give unto the earth her king!'
'Cease, cease, Almighty God! create no more!'
And suddenly upon the heavenly sphere
Deep silence fell; before the immortal throne
The angel Mercy knelt, and thus he spoke:
'Fulfill, great Father, thine exalted thought!
Create the likeness of thyself on earth.
In this new creature I will breathe the spirit
Of a divine compassion; he shall be
Thy fairest image in the universe.'
But to his words the angel Peace replied,
With heavy sobs: 'My spirit was outspread,
Oh God, on thy creation, and all things
Were sweetly bound in gracious harmony.
But man, this strange new being, everywhere
Shall bring confusion, trouble, discord, war.'
'Avenger of injustice and of crime,'
Exclaimed the angel Justice, 'he shall be
Subject to me, and peace shall bloom again.
Create, oh Lord, create!' 'Father of truth,'
Implored with tears the angel Truth, 'Thou bring'st
Upon the earth the father of all lies!'
And over the celestial faces gloomed
A cloud of grief, and stillness deep prevailed.
Then from the midst of that abyss of light
Whence sprang the eternal throne, these words rang forth:
'Be comforted, my daughter! Thee I send
To be companion unto man on earth.'
And all the angels cried, lamenting loud:
'Thou robbest heaven of her fairest gem.
Truth! seal of all thy thoughts, Almighty God,
The richest jewel that adorns thy crown.'
From the abyss of glory rang the voice:
'From heaven to earth, from earth once more to heaven,
Shall Truth, with constant interchange, alight
And soar again, an everlasting link
Between the world and sky.'
And man was born.
The Sunbeam loved the Moonbeam,
And followed her low and high,
But Moonbeam fled and hid her head,
She was so shy – so shy.
The Sunbeam wooed with passion;
Ah, he was a lover bold!
And his heart was afire with mad desire
For the moonbeam pale and cold.
She fled like a dream before him,
Her hair was a shining sheen,
And oh, that Fate would annihilate
The space that lay between!
Just as the day lay panting
In the arms of the twilight dim,
The Sunbeam caught the one he sought
And drew her close to him.
But out of his warm arms, startled
And stirred by Love’s first shock,
She sprang afraid, like a trembling maid,
And hid in the niche of a rock.
And the Sunbeam followed and found her
And led her to Love’s own feast;
And they were wed on that rocky bed,
And the dying day was priest.
And lo! the beautiful Opal –
That rare and wondrous gem –
Where the moon and the sun blend into one,
Is the child that was born to them.
At the creation of the Earth
Pleasure, that divinest birth,
From the soil of Heaven did rise,
Wrapped in sweet wild melodies--
Like an exhalation wreathing
To the sound of air low-breathing
Through Aeolian pines, which make
A shade and shelter to the lake
Whence it rises soft and slow;
Her life-breathing [limbs] did flow
In the harmony divine
Of an ever-lengthening line
Which enwrapped her perfect form
With a beauty clear and warm.
he was born on a dark lonely night
and not a soul was in sight.
his mother was driving home
on that starry night, when she started
to feel the contractions.
she knew right then that she would
have to take action.
she pulled alongside that old country road
and her stomach she did hold
.
when she felt that waterbag bust
and in GOD she put her trust.
she asked the LORD what she should do
for she knew not what to do.
she heard a voice so soft and gentle
that told her to stay calm.
for this was a special child
that would be born this night
and that everything was  going
to be allright.
she pushed the front seat back
as far as it would go
and took off her clothing so
that she could see.
the pains became so severe
and a head did appear.
she pushed with all her might
so that this child could be free.
for this was the way
it was meant to be.
as the child started to come out
from her lungs came a shout.
this child came out with such ease
and she felt a gentle breeze
as if it was a whisper upon her face
and she knew it was through GODS grace.
with a penknife she cut the cord.
and cleaned him up the best she could.
she wrapped him within her coat
and put the heater on
and drove back to a distant farm.
when she got to the farm
and banged upon the door.
when no one answered
she knealt down on the floor.
again she called upon the LORD
and asked what she should do.
he told her to look towads the barn
for there was a light as bright as day
and the farmer was baling hay.
as she got to the barn door
she collapsed in sheer exhaustion.
when she finally opened up her eyes
on the hay she did lay.
and  beside her lay her child.
and the farmer told her she was
out for quite a while.
but the ambulance was on the way
and that he could not move her
in fear of jeopardizing her life
and that she was cleaned up
by his lovely wife.
now the farmers wife was
a religious woman
who believed that nothing
happens by chance.
and at this child she did glance.
she said that he had an aura
of light above his head
just like the bible which she had read.
she looked at this childs mother
and asked her this:
'is this coincidence or is this
a sign from above
that he would be in a barn
like christ was in the manger?
she recalled that gentle voice and
what it had said.
that a special child would be born on this night.
now you tell me.
was she wrong, or was she right?
a new life;--thoughts move not as they did
With slow uncertain steps across my mind,
In thronging haste fast pressing on they bid
The portals open to the viewless wind
That comes not save when in the dust is laid
The crown of pride that gilds each mortal brow,
And from before man's vision melting fade
The heavens and earth;--their walls are falling now.--
Fast crowding on, each thought asks utterance strong;
Storm-lifted waves swift rushing to the shore,
On from the sea they send their shouts along,
Back through the cave-worn rocks their thunders roar;
And I a child of God by Christ made free
Start from death's slumbers to Eternity.
Bright glittering lights are gleaming in yonder mansion proud,
And within its walls are gathered a gemmed and jewelled crowd;
Robes of airy gauze and satin, diamonds and rubies bright,
Rich festoons of glowing flowers—truly ’tis a wondrous sight.
Time and care and gold were lavished that it might be, every way,
The success of all the season—brilliant fashionable gay.
’Tis the birth night of the heiress of this splendor wealth and state,
The sole child, the only darling, of a household of the great.
Now the strains of the fast galop on the perfumed air arise,
Rosy cheeks are turning carmine, brighter grow the brightest eyes,
As the whirling crowds of dancers pass again and yet again—
Girls coquettish, silly women, vapid and unmeaning men.
’Tis a scene to fill the thoughtful with a silent, vague dismay,
And from its unholy magic we are fain to steal away;
Out here in the quiet moonlight we may pause awhile and rest,
Whilst the solemn stars of heaven bring back peace unto our breast.
Soft! who is the fair young being—she who nightly joins us now,
In a robe of airy lightness, and with jewels on her brow,
Fair as the most fair ideal dreaming poet e’er inspired,
Or as lover, charmed by beauty, ever worshipped and admired.
Strange! what means that look so weary, that long-drawn and painful sigh;
And that gaze, intense and yearning, fixed upon the starlit sky?
Is she not the child of fortune, fortune’s pet and darling bright,
Yes, the beauteous, courted heiress—heroine of the gala night?
From the crowds of ardent lovers, who would beset her way,
Sickened by their whispered flatt’ries, she has coldly turned away;
And, as now the thrilling music falls upon her wearied ear,
She cannot resist a shudder, caused by mingled hate and fear.
“This is pleasure, then,” she murmurs; this is what the world calls bliss,
Oh! for objects less unworthy, for a holier life than this!
I am weary of its folly. O, Great Father, grant my boon:
“From its sinful, silken meshes, I pray Thee, free me soon!”
Did He answer? Now another year has passed with rapid flight,—
O’er the crowded, silent city broods the spirit of the night;
In the sick wards of the convent, fever-stricken, gasping, lies,
One with death’s damps on his brow, and its film o’er his eyes.
There beside him kneels a Sister, in coarse dusky robe and veil,
And with gentle care she moistens those poor lips so dry and pale;
Now she whispers hope and courage, now she tells of Heaven bright—
Thus it is the gentle heiress celebrates her next birth-night.
Not a trace of weary languor rests upon that ivory brow,
No vague sigh of restless yearning e’er escapes her bosom now;
Yet more fair and happy looks she, in that simple garb I ween,
Than when, robed in lace and jewels, she was called a ballroom’s queen.
Young mother! proudly throbs thine heart, and well may it rejoice,
Well may’st thou raise to Heaven above in grateful prayer thy voice:
A gift hath been bestowed on thee, a gift of priceless worth,
Far dearer to thy woman’s heart than all the wealth of earth.
What store of deep and holy joy is opened to thy thought—
Glad, sunny dreams of future days, with bliss and rapture fraught;
Of hopes as varied, yet as bright, as beams of April sun,
And plans and wishes centred all within thy darling one!
While others seek in changing scenes earth’s happiness to gain,
In fashion’s halls to win a joy as dazzling as ’tis vain—
A bliss more holy far is thine, far sweeter and more deep,
To watch beside thine infant’s couch and bend above his sleep.
What joy for thee to ling’ring gaze within those cloudless eyes,
Turning upon thee with a glance of such sweet, strange surprise,
Or press a mother’s loving kiss upon that fair, white brow,
Of all earth’s weight of sin and care and pain unconscious now.
Then, as thy loved one’s sleeping breath so softly fans thy cheek,
And gazing on that tiny form, so lovely, yet so weak,
A dream comes o’er thee of the time when nobly at thy side
Thy cherished son shall proudly stand, in manhood’s lofty pride.
Yet a sad change steals slowly o’er thy tender, loving eye,
Thou twin’st him closer to thy heart, with fond and anxious sigh,
Feeling, however bright his course he too must suff’ring know,
Like all earth’s children taste alike life’s cup of care and woe.
But, oh! it lies within thy power to give to him a spell
To guard him in the darkest hour from sorrow safe and well;
Thou’lt find it in the narrow path the great and good have trod—
And thou thyself wilt teach it him—the knowledge of his God!
Resign'd to live, prepar'd to die,
With not one sin, but poetry,
This day Tom's fair account has run
(Without a blot) to eighty-one.
Kind Boyle, before his poet, lays
A table, with a cloth of bays;
And Ireland, mother of sweet singers,
Presents her harp still to his fingers.
The feast, his tow'ring genius marks
In yonder wild goose and the larks!
The mushrooms shew his wit was sudden!
And for his judgement, lo a pudden!
Roast beef, tho' old, proclaims him stout,
And grace, altho' a bard, devout.
May Tom, whom heav'n send down to raise
The price of prologues and of plays,
He ev'ry birth-day more a winner,
Digest his thirty thousandth dinner;
Walk to his grave without reproach,
And scorn a rascal and a coach.
While, Stella, to your lasting praise
The Muse her annual tribute pays,
While I assign myself a task
Which you expect, but scorn to ask;
If I perform this task with pain,
Let me of partial fate complain;
You every year the debt enlarge,
I grow less equal to the charge:
In you each virtue brighter shines,
But my poetic vein declines;
My harp will soon in vain be strung,
And all your virtues left unsung.
For none among the upstart race
Of poets dare assume my place;
Your worth will be to them unknown,
They must have Stellas of their own;
And thus, my stock of wit decay'd,
I dying leave the debt unpaid,
Unless Delany, as my heir,
Will answer for the whole arrear.
May each new Year some new Perfection give,
Till all the Mother in the Daughter live!
May'st Thou her Virtues to the World restore!
And be what Henrietta was before!
And when revolving Years mature thy Charms,
When Pride of Conquest thy fair Bosom warms,
May some great Youth, for ev'ry Grace renown'd,
With Taste and Science bless'd, by Virtue crown'd;
By Virtue guarded from Ambition's Wiles,
Superior both to Fortune's Frowns and Smiles;
Who wears the Honours of a glorious Name,
Yet to Distinction bears a nobler Claim;
Like a new Star, in native Lustre bright,
That boasts no Radiance from reflected Light:
Allow'd the rising Genius of his Age;
By ev'ry Excellence thy Heart engage;
Like Him who bless'd thy Mother's Nuptial State;
But O! may Heav'n give Thine a longer Date.
we may be the same in face and needs
but! i am different in value and deeds.
while you love to flaunt your looks
i love to sit and read books.
you want to be the center of the crowd.
'i just look at you and frown'
you want to show people that.you are
the better of the twin
because you are happy and carefree.
but this is not what all people see.
there are times in life that
we are alike.
but! we are both seperate individuals
with different personalities.
i believe in the goodness in life
having children and a wife.
while you believe in the party rule.
in my eyes you are such a fool.
when it is time and the lord
calls our name.
will you still feel the same.
we are twins this i can see
but you are not the same as me.
so when you see that it's time for change
i will love you just the same.
I celebrate
my lover's birthday
glorying in her
body
ravishing her senses
(she relishing my ravishing)
until her soul
lies naked before me
I making her anew
shaping her molecule by molecule
touch upon touch
creating her
kiss by kiss
until she exists
clothed in my love
dressed in her joy
this day of her
birth.
All is still and silent now
The world is at peace with man
The terrors of day are quiet now
Peace reigns throughout the land
Thin shades of night come creeping
slowly over the earth
Now in awesome stillness Earth lies
Like a woman awaiting the moment of birth
Remembering now, in fleeting moments last
too soon forgotten lessons
of a day almost past
If it were possible she’d sigh
‘Perhaps ‘tis best this way’
Dark battles for one last moment
... then the birth of a new day!
Mary Havran
(Written when poet was ten years old)
A note to the reader: I have recently spent some time revisiting my earliest poetic efforts and upon
Reflection have decided to post some on this sit. Poems whose titles are prefixed with the designation “zPt”  are poems written during my preteen years.  I hope you find them interesting.
Terrorists struck without warning!
Coming out of a clear blue sky
On a beautiful cool morning,
Leaving us to wonder why
They’d kill women and children,
Muslim, Buddhist and Jew,
Hindu, Shinto and Christian,
To name only a few...
One brother against another,
We aren’t so different at birth
Teaching makes us hate each other
And lessens our own self worth...
Hatred begets hatred,
Your victory is to make more like you,
But in the end you’re dead
And “Victory” is dust and ashes, too
Yes, terrorists struck without seeing,
Killing all in their blindness,
But the most meaningful responses
Were random acts of kindness....
>^.Karl! (12/02/01)
The first day you woke me up,
did you open the door
or did I leave it open?
How could you know?
There were blinds
on the windows
and yet you knew
that was the first snow
of a long winter,
“it´s a clear winter morning,
let´s go and enjoy the snow”.
You knew
when to touch my hand
to tell me
life is waiting
let´s go play.
You knew
the best definition
for happiness.
Open your eyes and enjoy.
Let´s go play.
You knew
the exact measure
of truth,
of danger.
The secret
must be
the smell.
Brother Rabbit and Brother Terrapin wanted to run round a tree.
They went to Brother Bear and asked him to be the referee.
He said to Brother Terrapin, “You win if you’re the first to take the stone! ”
Brother Rabbit ran and won as Brother Terrapin could only go,
He cried, “Brother Rabbit has run, but has he really won?
Look here, my stone’s on me, so I’m number one! ”
When Brother Fox and Brother Rabbit meet,
Brother Fox always tries to eat
Brother Rabbit who often thinks how
To laugh at Brother Fox. Now
Brother Rabbit said, “Have we met, Brother? Hi! ”
“Oh! I haven’t had lunch”, Brother Fox replied.
“But when we yesterday met,
You also said that.
Poor Brother Fox had no lunch,
Then have for it grass or a branch”.
Brother Rabbit’s taught Brother Wolf a lesson.
He’s done it to amuse his little son.
Now, Brother Wolf’s in a cage.
Nothing he can change.
Yesterday he ate meat in a trap,
And Brother Rabbit didn’t let
Him run out, he locked him then,
He taught him and needn’t teach again.
Abuse
He was little at the time,
She was only a child,
But both were abused,
And had been for a while.
Their father was cruel,
Mean and heartless.
The way he hurt them,
Made it look effortless.
He locked her up,
In a room up the stair.
And left the house drunk,
Leaving her there.
He was hit from the mum,
A blow to the face.
The way they were treated,
Was an utter disgrace.
He couldn't get up,
He couldn't fight back.
For food to get stronger,
Was something he lacked.
The little girl was left,
Alone in the dark.
Cradling her arm,
On which was a mark.
Her wrist had been used,
To put out a cigarette stump.
Buring through the skin,
Leaving her with a lump.
He had been kicked,
When he was down.
Kicked for just being there,
Kicked down to the ground.
She had been someone,
For her parents alone,
To personally hurt,
When they were at home.
These children were hurt,
Outside and in.
They'd been physically abused,
And hurt right within.
Their pride had been banished,
Long, long ago.
They couldn't stand up,
And simply say, 'No! '
The children died,
Not older than three.
The boy protecting his sister,
The girl clutching her teddy.
They had bruises,
Up and down their arms.
But they had escaped,
Escaped from further harm.
I wish that I could have,
Had the courage to speak.
To tell someone of this abuse,
That happened each week.
I could have made a difference,
For this little boy and girl,
I could have made a difference,
That they could mean the whole world.
So if you know of any,
Type of abuse.
Tell the helpline to today,
Before someones life is what we loose.
Frank, wil't live unhandsomely? trust not too far
Thy self to waving seas: for what thy star,
Calculated by sure event, must be,
Look in the glassy-epithete, and see.
Yet settle here your rest, and take your state,
And in calm halcyon's nest ev'n build your fate;
Prethee lye down securely, Frank, and keep
With as much no noyse the inconstant deep
As its inhabitants; nay, stedfast stand,
As if discover'd were a New-found-land,
Fit for plantation here.  Dream, dream still,
Lull'd in Dione's cradle; dream, untill
Horrour awake your sense, and you now find
Your self a bubbled pastime for the wind;
And in loose Thetis blankets torn and tost.
Frank, to undo thy self why art at cost?
Nor be too confident, fix'd on the shore:
For even that too borrows from the store
Of her rich neighbour, since now wisest know
(And this to Galileo's judgement ow),
The palsie earth it self is every jot
As frail, inconstant, waveing, as that blot
We lay upon the deep, that sometimes lies
Chang'd, you would think, with 's botoms properties;
But this eternal, strange Ixion's wheel
Of giddy earth ne'er whirling leaves to reel,
Till all things are inverted, till they are
Turn'd to that antick confus'd state they were.
Who loves the golden mean, doth safely want
A cobwebb'd cot and wrongs entail'd upon't;
He richly needs a pallace for to breed
Vipers and moths, that on their feeder feed;
The toy that we (too true) a mistress call,
Whose looking-glass and feather weighs up all;
And cloaths which larks would play with in the sun,
That mock him in the night, when 's course is run.
To rear an edifice by art so high,
That envy should not reach it with her eye,
Nay, with a thought come neer it.  Wouldst thou know,
How such a structure should be raisd, build low.
The blust'ring winds invisible rough stroak
More often shakes the stubborn'st, prop'rest oak;
And in proud turrets we behold withal,
'Tis the imperial top declines to fall:
Nor does Heav'n's lightning strike the humble vales,
But high-aspiring mounts batters and scales.
A breast of proof defies all shocks of Fate,
Fears in the best, hopes in worser state;
Heaven forbid that, as of old, time ever
Flourish'd in spring so contrary, now never.
That mighty breath, which blew foul Winter hither,
Can eas'ly puffe it to a fairer weather.
Why dost despair then, Frank?  Aeolus has
A Zephyrus as well as Boreas.
'Tis a false sequel, soloecisme 'gainst those
Precepts by fortune giv'n us, to suppose
That, 'cause it is now ill, 't will ere be so;
Apollo doth not always bend his bow;
But oft, uncrowned of his beams divine,
With his soft harp awakes the sleeping Nine.
In strictest things magnanimous appear,
Greater in hope, howere thy fate, then fear:
Draw all your sails in quickly, though no storm
Threaten your ruine with a sad alarm;
For tell me how they differ, tell me, pray,
A cloudy tempest and a too fair day?
Who was the villain
When it all began
Some fair-haired stranger
From a faraway land
Or the African brother
Selling his neighbor away
In exchange of whatever
The fair-haired stranger would pay
For the brutal betrayal
Of his own damned kin
Has anything changed
Since the original sin
Who was the villain
........When it all...began
I was groping for a friend
in a net of eyes by the tube;
I was looking for a brother
in a heart of dearness as old;
I am sharing for a life
to a friend not yet known;
I am trusting a brother
at a distance my dreams've shown.
I am talking to a friend
in a net of dearness by the tube;
I am looking at his eyes
seemed like Moses of old.
I am sharing for a life
to a friend now yet called
at a distance shared a promise
for a newfound life yet assured;
for at a distance, a friend
and a brother, now behold;
he's there, I'm here yet embracing
in this little lovely world.
Traumatized, by life's indiscretions
Submerged in stereotypical
contradictions
caught up in the mix
Can you fix, what's not broke?
The token mentality of the man
disparity is his plan
A thousand faces and, no place
to call your own
You're trapped in a world
taught to hide and divide
victimized by a crime
you didn't commit
you ask the question
Will I ever be free
to just be me
And...
walk the streets
though unknown, be left alone?
Can i drive my car
no matter how far
And...
not get stopped
because, my skin color
Is not like the other?
Will they discover
the other side of prejudice
or just, continue to suffer
the consequences of circumstance?
Is there a chance to enhance
the mind of the man
And...
make him understand
that, not all brothers
are the same?
The game remains
But...
the players
do change
To tribute to your kindness
In words is not enough
To tell of your caring
For me and others is wasting time
To a dear brother of mine
To bridge a gap so wide
As to let me into your heart
When I don’t even know mine
This tribute to you
My brother
My friend
My family
In love you conquer hate
And within these ugly times
You conquer them with beauty
This tribute to my brother ends
But always will remain true
My heart feels so troubled by the things that fate has done,
I love you dear brother, to me you're number one.
I set here by myself, your picture in my hand,
thinking about you living in another land.
You my dear, sweet brother, are everything to me,
My heart, my life, my happiness all the good I see.
Though you're ill, and feeling sad I want you to know,
If life were to take you away,  my love for you wont go.
I'll remember all the days we shared as little children having fun,
Jumping, climbing, birthdays from now back to when we where young.
Dear brother you'll never really leave me, no you wont depart,
and if, God, saw fit to take you, I'll forever keep you in my heart.
My baby brother falls a lot.
I see how sad he feels.
Why don't baby brothers
come with training wheels?
His ears are ever vigilant be careful of what you do say
Big Brother he is listening from you he's never far away
Your words he may put a slant on and one word in the wrong place
Could see you in deep trouble the court you might have to face.
The Government allows free speech free to a point maybe
But when mere words can land you in trouble that does not seem free to me
And big brother is listening and he hears what he wants to hear
The best way of freedom curtailment is the weapon known as fear
And big brother he takes note every time you speak your mind
And if he sees something he does not like in trouble yourself you will find
He is the Government watchdog your words can see you in jail
Big brother is always watching you he even checks your mail.
Big brother he is listening even when your friends you phone
And even those who live on their own in truth are not alone
For big brother is with them though him they cannot see
He remains as invisible and few as treacherous as he.
When I look upon a photograph.
Not so long ago, not so faded.
A picture of my beloved big brother.
The memories had filled my mind.
The times we cried and the times we laughed.
How brother watches over me,
Makes sure I'm not hurt.
When I was sick, he made my lunch.
We'd go on shopping trips.
We thought we would grow old together.
Through the years we thought it was true.
Brother and I worked on model trains.
Then time had come to call.
My big brother had to go.
He passed away, he went to eternal sleep.
God is holding him as he sleeps.
Until he comes to call.
All I have are memories and a photograph.
In memory of big brother Paul.
Humankind has come far in technology so very far 'twould seem
Back in the nineteen fifties of such achievements we dared not dream
In this age of the computer Big Brother reigns supreme
To him we have become as visible as fish in a clear pool of a sunlit stream.
Big Brother knows more about you now than he has ever known before
And he watches every move you make even from a distant shore
He knows your inner secrets into your soul he see
With the aid of the computer and modern technology.
Big Brother not a benign character he has never been that way
He judge you for your opinions and everything you say
Goes into his computer a dossier on you he create
For Government Bureaucrats for to use against you in some future date.
The pinnacle of human achievements we are told we have not seen
And Big Brother is more powerful now than he has ever been
With the aid of modern technology he looks into your soul
And the loss to us of privacy is beyond our control.
I have a friend far across the sea.
We have never met,
but she is never far away.
Our hands have never touched,
but our hearts have,
through our words
that bring comfort and console.
We are not related,
but a big brother she thinks I am.
She is always writing
about this distant friend.
So now is my chance
to write one for her.
I hope when she reads it
she will get a silly grin.
29 June 2007
Big Brother he is always watching you
And nothing unbeknown to him you do
Of his attentions none of us are free
We never can escape his scrutiny.
Big Brother is one we never get to know
Though he spies on us where ever to we go
Our sixth sense tells us he is never far away
He never cease to watch us night and day.
Big Brother is an agent of the State
And few would wish to have him as a mate
No respect for your privacy he show
And due to him the Government about you most thing know.
A faceless soul he is one we never see
And of his attentions we cannot be free
A silent spy he never makes a sound
And unbeknown to us he follows us around.
Along the street as by houses you walk by
From behind curtained windows on you he does spy
Big Brother watches you by night and day
And from you he is never far away.
Burning! Burning! Whole world is burning
Erased ghettos, razing down skyscrapers
Mowed out farms, fields and meadows
Smoldering woods, thickets and vines
Thawing glaciers and boiling polar waters
War-fire far and wide; wild and torrid
Melting earth into oceans
Asia and Australia in shambles
Africa reduced to hot ashes
And South America under mercenary cap
Screaming, shouting and crying everywhere
Whole human world looking like God’s acre
In the bloody gore, pillage, mire and pyre
Scurrying kith and kin, in rubble, gathering
Scattered limbs of their near and dear ones
Tragedy reigning; hungry cinders remaining
In ravaged homes and ruined lives
“Ha! Ha! Ha! What a scene! How picturesque! ”
Dream broke! Big Brother awoke!
With cold sweat on his face and
Cold feeling sweeping his fetish mind
Smiled he in wild ‘sadist’faction at his reverie
Muttered he to himself in glee
“I will! I will! Fulfill this dream!
And slake this thirst! This hunger and this lust!
With hysterical urge reach those orgasmic crests
And stand there laughing my heart out
And shout, shout and shout like a lunatic
I am Lord! I am God! I am the Almighty! ! ! ”
The first born of the family
Brought happiness and prosperity
Even his name represents that
“Aklil” means “crown” in Tigrinya
He paid his life with no doubt
Stood for his people for his home land
Such a good brother and son
So young and a sweet one
Too unfair to be gone
How can I forget his smiley face
So cute and decent our family’s grace
Life has been too mean to you
Beloved brother I miss you
While I’m obsess through sadness
Realize if it weren’t you and the others
Paid life and brought this peace
We wouldn’t live and blithe
Not even be able to breath
Beloved brother, we all are proud of you
Even though we crazily missing you
The short good times we shared
Is what I deeply engraved
And I always miss that
“Aklilu” your memory is in my heart
Never thought life could be that short
You deserve to live and it really hurt
My beloved “Aklil” this poem is for you
I wanted the whole world to know you
I love you and I really miss you! ! ! !
N.B I wrote this poem for my brother who martyrs at the war between Eritrea and Ethiopia On May 17 2000 at the age of 24 in a specific place named Adi-rakba
thank you for reading it
He lies near to death
Dying in the dust
Broken and forgot.
Now his children
Once mighty tribes
Fall before the setting sun.
His women - - young and old
Dead and dying
Host the killer AIDS.
He calls for help
To rich brothers in the West
But his cries fall upon stone-deaf ears.
For they find no profit
Supplying HIV drugs
To those who cannot pay.
I know so well I have made a big sin
When having said something that has hurt you.
But I came to you apologizin',
Beging your pardon with what I can do.
I let myself in the class where you are,
I spoke to you about the event;
You have shoken your head not to go far
And you have only spelled the two words «  I can't. »
I asked you then about the pledge for your sake;
You replied you accepted only the words,
And the pledge is just only a sort of fake;
With which you can only trap the stupid birds.
Once again I gave you a tell-tale poem
About our own four years buddihood story:
I reconciled myself to your blues,
And at the end, I implicited « I'm Sorry! ».
Tonight, the poem here is to you written.
And I pray it would set you out of fury.
You're my elder sister; I'm your brother
And this what really made our own glory.
"SISTER, sister, go to bed!
Go and rest your weary head."
Thus the prudent brother said.
"Do you want a battered hide,
Or scratches to your face applied?"
Thus his sister calm replied.
"Sister, do not raise my wrath.
I'd make you into mutton broth
As easily as kill a moth"
The sister raised her beaming eye
And looked on him indignantly
And sternly answered, "Only try!"
Off to the cook he quickly ran.
"Dear Cook, please lend a frying-pan
To me as quickly as you can."
And wherefore should I lend it you?"
"The reason, Cook, is plain to view.
I wish to make an Irish stew."
"What meat is in that stew to go?"
"My sister'll be the contents!"
"Oh"
"You'll lend the pan to me, Cook?"
"No!"
Moral: Never stew your sister.
Brother, Brother
thank you for being there
for me
I know sometimes I want
to help you but I'm a
girl! ! !
Brother, Brother
thank you for helping me
through my life! ! !
Brother, Brother
you graduated
in high school
You are moving on..
I will miss
you with all of my
HEART! ! !
Brother, Brother
thank you  for
giving what I want.
Also thanks for being
the best brother
cause I have only
1 brother thats
you! !
Brother Brother
Please Come Back Home
I Wish We All Would Have Known
Brother Brother
Why Arent You Here?
You Diddnt Have Anything To Fear
Things Would Have Gotten Better
Throught This Past Painful Year
You Took Your Own Life Brother
Just Like So Many Others
Your Family Just Looks At Pictures And Has To Stare
Thats The Only Way We See You And Its Just  Not Fair
We All Miss Your Big Smile
That You Had On Your Face Every Day
I Love You Sister
The Words You Said Every Single Day
I Miss The Way You HUgged Me
The Way You Would Always Be There
Now Once Again All I Do Is sit and Stare
“Brother Brother a long time has past 15 years since I’ve seen you last
Your laughter and smile will never die like your spirit that fills the sky
We have to look for your signs ever present in our lives
Your voice echoes in the wind like a whisper from a friend
A shooting star from above a little sign to show me your love
Brother I’m there watching over you like a Guardian Angel
Talk to me I will listen I hear your thoughts and your worries
I feel your pain and your joy my soul has never died
Always keep me in your heart and my memory alive
I will be there to greet you on the other side
Eternal love and friendship “
The magical song birds flew away from the uncle's orchard without informing him.
The trees some were uprooted and old as same as uncle's gray beard.
I remember the bygone days when the fruits were laden and ripen on the tree tops how they danced merrily?
But now no more any singsong or a friendly chat and only you hear is the faint whisper of decaying leaves over his pet dog 'Marco's' silent tomb.
*Hey! My dear friend nothing could be hold firmly as everything disappears like in a sad dream.
This poem is a dedication to my friend George.Murdock in gratitude.
My brother Jim's a millionaire,
while I have scarce a penny;
His face is creased with lines of care,
While my mug hasn't any.
With inwardness his eyes are dim,
While mine laugh out in glee,
And though I ought to envy him,
I think he envies me.
He has a chateau, I a shack,
And humble I should be
To see his stately Cadillac
Beside my jalopy.
With chain of gold his belly's girt,
His beard is barber trim;
Yet bristle-chinned with ragged shirt,
I do not envy Jim.
My brother is a man of weight;
For every civic plum
He grabs within one pie of state,
While I am just a bum.
Last Winter he was near to croak
With gastric ulcers grim. . . .
And no! although I'm stony broke
I will not envy Jim
He gets the work, I get the fun;
He has no tie for play;
Whereas with paddle, rod and gun
My life's a holiday.
As over crabbed script he pores
I can the sky's blue rim. . . .
Oh boy! While I have God's outdoors
I'll never envy Jim.
SHE has gone,-- she has left us in passion and pride,--
Our stormy-browed sister, so long at our side!
She has torn her own star from our firmament's glow,
And turned on her brother the face of a foe!
Oh, Caroline, Caroline, child of the sun,
We can never forget that our hearts have been one,--
Our foreheads both sprinkled in Liberty's name,
From the fountain of blood with the finger of flame!
You were always too ready to fire at a touch;
But we said, "She is hasty,-- she does not mean much."
We have scowled, when you uttered some turbulent threat;
But Friendship still whispered, "Forgive and forget!"
Has our love all died out? Have its altars grown cold?
Has the curse come at last which the fathers foretold?
Then Nature must teach us the strength of the chain
That her petulant children would sever in vain.
They may fight till the buzzards are gorged with their spoil,
Till the harvest grows black as it rots in the soil,
Till the wolves and the catamounts troop from their caves,
And the shark tracks the pirate, the lord of the waves:
In vain is the strife! When its fury is past,
Their fortunes must flow in one channel at last,
As the torrents that rush from the mountains of snow
Roll mingled in peace through the valleys below.
Our Union is river, lake, ocean, and sky:
Man breaks not the medal, when God cuts the die!
Though darkened with sulphur, though cloven with steel,
The blue arch will brighten, the waters will heal!
Oh, Caroline, Caroline, child of the sun,
There are battles with Fate that can never be won!
The star-flowering banner must never be furled,
For its blossoms of light are the hope of the world!
Go, then, our rash sister! afar and aloof,
Run wild in the sunshine away from our roof;
But when your heart aches and your feet have grown sore,
Remember the pathway that leads to our door!
my brother he is lost to me,
grew up and he out grew me.
moved away to hide from dad,
left me all alone and sad.
now he's forced to live a lie,
scared away by one big cry.
he wrecked the car so dad wrecked him,
kicked him out and forced hate in.
he's run away many times before,
but now he's allowed in no more.
pretend like and fake love,
my dad is now so filled of.
they can be together for just mere minutes,
then the fight begins before us.
hide the pain, we try to do,
but once again it just breaks through.
way to young to be on his own,
but he's still left alone.
now all i have left to say,
is i hope to see him free one day.
free of pain, and free to hope,
and free for him and his love to elope.
BROTHER of all, with generous hand,
Of thee, pondering on thee, as o'er thy tomb, I and my Soul,
A thought to launch in memory of thee,
A burial verse for thee.
What may we chant, O thou within this tomb?
What tablets, pictures, hang for thee, O millionaire?
--The life thou lived'st we know not,
But that thou walk'dst thy years in barter, 'mid the haunts of
brokers;
Nor heroism thine, nor war, nor glory.
Yet lingering, yearning, joining soul with thine,                  10
If not thy past we chant, we chant the future,
Select, adorn the future.
Lo, Soul, the graves of heroes!
The pride of lands--the gratitudes of men,
The statues of the manifold famous dead, Old World and New,
The kings, inventors, generals, poets, (stretch wide thy vision,
Soul,)
The excellent rulers of the races, great discoverers, sailors,
Marble and brass select from them, with pictures, scenes,
(The histories of the lands, the races, bodied there,
In what they've built for, graced and graved,                      20
Monuments to their heroes.)
Silent, my Soul,
With drooping lids, as waiting, ponder'd,
Turning from all the samples, all the monuments of heroes.
While through the interior vistas,
Noiseless uprose, phantasmic (as, by night, Auroras of the North,)
Lambent tableaux, prophetic, bodiless scenes,
Spiritual projections.
In one, among the city streets, a laborer's home appear'd,
After his day's work done, cleanly, sweet-air'd, the gaslight
burning,                                                     30
The carpet swept, and a fire in the cheerful stove.
In one, the sacred parturition scene,
A happy, painless mother birth'd a perfect child.
In one, at a bounteous morning meal,
Sat peaceful parents, with contented sons.
In one, by twos and threes, young people,
Hundreds concentering, walk'd the paths and streets and roads,
Toward a tall-domed school.
In one a trio, beautiful,
Grandmother, loving daughter, loving daughter's daughter, sat,     40
Chatting and sewing.
In one, along a suite of noble rooms,
'Mid plenteous books and journals, paintings on the walls, fine
statuettes,
Were groups of friendly journeymen, mechanics, young and old,
Reading, conversing.
All, all the shows of laboring life,
City and country, women's, men's and children's,
Their wants provided for, hued in the sun, and tinged for once with
joy,
Marriage, the street, the factory, farm, the house-room, lodging-
room,
Labor and toil, the bath, gymnasium, play-ground, library,
college,                                                     50
The student, boy or girl, led forward to be taught;
The sick cared for, the shoeless shod--the orphan father'd and
mother'd,
The hungry fed, the houseless housed;
(The intentions perfect and divine,
The workings, details, haply human.)
O thou within this tomb,
From thee, such scenes--thou stintless, lavish Giver,
Tallying the gifts of Earth--large as the Earth,
Thy name an Earth, with mountains, fields and rivers.
Nor by your streams alone, you rivers,                             60
By you, your banks, Connecticut,
By you, and all your teeming life, Old Thames,
By you, Potomac, laving the ground Washington trod--by you Patapsco,
You, Hudson--you, endless Mississippi--not by you alone,
But to the high seas launch, my thought, his memory.
Lo, Soul, by this tomb's lambency,
The darkness of the arrogant standards of the world,
With all its flaunting aims, ambitions, pleasures.
(Old, commonplace, and rusty saws,
The rich, the gay, the supercilious, smiled at long,               70
Now, piercing to the marrow in my bones,
Fused with each drop my heart's blood jets,
Swim in ineffable meaning.)
Lo, Soul, the sphere requireth, portioneth,
To each his share, his measure,
The moderate to the moderate, the ample to the ample.
Lo, Soul, see'st thou not, plain as the sun,
The only real wealth of wealth in generosity,
The only life of life in goodness?
I think of you and shed a tear
I'd cry a million if they could bring you back here
That night when you left and said goodbye,
I did not know the next morning you would die.
Now that your gone, god how I wish,
I’d stop that night to give you a kiss.
It always felt safe there in your arms,
None could match your beauty and charms
I love you brother and the world should know;
That you were not meant to grow old,
As young as you were and as smart as I am
I know you were not part of a long life’s plan.
To bright before us you shone from afar,
I knew somehow you would be killed by a car.
Fast to exit, too fast for me,
but long will you be remembered you see.
For you were the one that everyone liked,
my brother, my friend, up to mischief and strife,
For some reason a wife was not part of your life’s plan,
no children were sired to add to our clan
My brother, how proud I am to say,
that you were my brother,
I miss you today.
Your wit and your charm, your style and grace
you were too good for this human race
You died so long ago, when we  were both young,
we thought our lives had only just begun,
It is sad and I just want you to know
I wish you'd had  the chance to see my boy grow,
I am married now you see,
with a son and two daughters living happily.
You are often in my thoughts as I watch my Blake grow;
I see his spark, and cheeky grin,
the shape of his eye and the angle of his chin.
I watch his smile; I sit and think of you awhile.
I hope you see me from above,
and know I am sending you all my love
Jeannie ©
please make comments. this is my second poem submitted, feedback greatly appreciated
We all make our mistakes in life and for that payment is always in full,
Regardless of our actions our decisions leads us to either victory or defeat;
A learning proccess that as humans we all must pass, even at our childhood we gain experience with hard knocks;
Having sometimes a blind eye to the truths or deaf to our conscious of a fool,
Hoping that as we proceed in life the past stays in the past and doesn’t hunt us;
Not realizing that we involve people that love us;
Consequences that influence many of those who are constantly in our minds,
Separation of a love one is a difficult task; Regardless whether is a mother, brother, son or daughter;
Waking up to an empty soul feels like an ocean with a bottomless floor,
Like darkness not knowing whether your next step is forward or stumble into the unknown,
Now we must part you must go one way as I must remain,
A brother I never new must part his own way,
Soon we’ll be together I understand, soon we share a laughter once again;
I’ll remain your brother thru thick and thin; you must pay for your action as they say,
Don’t worry; for brood is thicker than water and no matter what you will always be my brother.
Why dont you come home at nights?
Why are you always getting into fights?
Why are your eyes always so red?
Why do you seem like your hanging by a thread?
Why are you always in a bad mood?
Why dont you come home....except for food?
Why dont I hear from you? Your always with your friends.
Please, tell me what we did wrong, I'll gladly make amends.
Where does all your money go?
Wait...dont tell me...I dont want to know.
Please pull yourself together. Make something of your life
Buy a house, settle down, have children with a wife...
Please stop doing all this foolishness you do.
But remember, no matter what. I will always love you.
Brother, dear brother
whatever you choose.
whatever you lose
I wont abandon you,
never....I refuse
I'll be by your side to the very end.
When all your friends leave, I'll be your best friend
Just please let me help you fix your bad choices.
When choosing your path...let your family be the voices.
We'll guide you to life
We'll guide you to hope
We'll guide you away
from the booze and the dope
So please make room in your heart for the ones who love you.
We'll be with you forever. We love you through and through.
I can still hear your voice
although decades have passed—
the baritone of a man
who is approaching fifteen.
Knees and knuckles numb,
you stand on the snowy bank
of the Shenango river,
pulling an angry muskrat
from an old steel trap.
Like a eucharist
you hold it up against
the Pennsylvania sky,
its only remaining paw
bleeding, almost severed,
dangling in the sun.
Blue-lipped and barely eight,
I shiver in the wind,
and almost weep for home.
“It made it all this way”—
you say—“on three raw bones,
and still defies its death,
just like we must the cold.”
Someone who wants to be a rocker
Known as my brother
Always playing guitar.
So annoying
Drives me crazy
Tell him to get up
Because he's lazy.
Pretending to be
Someone he's not
Nothing wrong with that
But please at eleven at night
Let's get some shut eye
And turn off the light.
*(For you my brother, For there is no other) *
I love you
Can't you see
How I care
Can't you see
How I die
Die there with you
Can't you see
My pain
Cause it hurts
Yes it hurts
To see you hurt
Yourself
So bad
I love you
Brother to brother
I know that I can always coun on you
Because you are my brther
And I am your brother also
Brother to brother
Your life is different than mine
You live in Brazil
I live in Canad a country that is more advanced in technology
Brother to brother
I will pray for you
Eventhough you don't believe in God
Brother to brother I will email you more frequently
Brother to brother I will sing you a song
Brother to brother I hope the saints will go to Sao paulo and watch you While you are sleeping
Tell me something my Cyber Lover,
do you happen to have a brother?
It's just I have a Cyber Friend out there,
and for her welfare I really care
He must of course be the perfect man,
and write like you, tell me he can?
For I cannot possibly share you,
my heart would simply break in two!
(LOL - for 'L')
dear brother
will i ever see you again?
or have i lost another friend?
i know you had to go
but i want you to know
that i miss you more than i can show
dear brother
it's been a while
since you last made me smile
and i know you had to leave
but i want you here with me
because i miss you terribly
dear brother
will you ever come home?
or am i never to know?
and i wish you didn't have to go
but i want you to know
that i miss you more than i can show
Oh brother of mine, why don't you just die tonight.
oh brother, oh brother, oh brother... just  die tonight.
i can see it now your lying in the snow,
blood red all aroung,
from your head down to you toes.
Oh brother of mine, why don't you just die tonight.
Nobodys around, it will be a sweet sound.
good bye Good Bye GOOD BYE! ! !
theres joy in my face,
i'll put you in that place,
not heven but hell,
where you've always belonged.
oh brother, oh brother, oh brother... just  die tonight.
nobody would care,
your just a piece of air,
everything will be sweet,
it will be neat,
the my best treat
Its amazing, i know this is ture,
its all gonna come after you,
its all gonna come, come when your gone
Oh brother just die just die just DIE tonight
You'll be on the missing person list,
for a min, or two,
untill we realize this,
NOBODY LIKES YOU!
Oh brother of mine, why don't you just die tonight.
oh brother, oh brother, oh brother... just  die tonight.
i can see it now your lying in the snow,
blood red all aroung,
from your head down to you toes.
you'll do us a favor, so put that to your head,
and wish for your sweet death.
Say your good byes, though nobody will cry
just pull that God damn trigger and just die.
Oh brother of mine why don't you just die.
JUST FCUKING DIE! ! !
***(i don't accually wish death on my brother, i was just very angry at him at the time. but hay... you would too if you were the only girl in the family of 6 children....yes that means i have 5 older brothers. it sucks major ass.)  ****
There’s a mirror likeness between those two
shining, youthfully-fledged figures, though
one seems paler than the other and more austere,
I might even say more perfect, more distinguished,
than he, who would take me confidingly in his arms –
how soft then and loving his smile, how blessed his glance!
Then, it might well have been that his wreath
of white poppies gently touched my forehead, at times,
and drove the pain from my mind with its strange scent.
But that is transient. I can only, now, be well,
when the other one, so serious and pale,
the older brother, lowers his dark torch. –
Sleep is so good, Death is better, yet
surely never to have been born is best.
Let us pray to
the demons of time
and old age.
Let us beg absolution
from our wrinkled skins,
and our hair, the color
of cremated doves.
Let us beseech the heavens
to stop this constant loss
of joy, this slow dulling
of the heart.
We are
silent old soldiers
alone with our terror.
Full many a dreary hour have I past,
My brain bewildered, and my mind o'ercast
With heaviness; in seasons when I've thought
No spherey strains by me could e'er be caught
From the blue dome, though I to dimness gaze
On the far depth where sheeted lightning plays;
Or, on the wavy grass outstretched supinely,
Pry 'mong the stars, to strive to think divinely:
That I should never hear Apollo's song,
Though feathery clouds were floating all along
The purple west, and, two bright streaks between,
The golden lyre itself were dimly seen:
That the still murmur of the honey bee
Would never teach a rural song to me:
That the bright glance from beauty's eyelids slanting
Would never make a lay of mine enchanting,
Or warm my breast with ardour to unfold
Some tale of love and arms in time of old.
But there are times, when those that love the bay,
Fly from all sorrowing far, far away;
A sudden glow comes on them, nought they see
In water, earth, or air, but poesy.
It has been said, dear George, and true I hold it,
(For knightly Spenser to Libertas told it,)
That when a Poet is in such a trance,
In air her sees white coursers paw, and prance,
Bestridden of gay knights, in gay apparel,
Who at each other tilt in playful quarrel,
And what we, ignorantly, sheet-lightning call,
Is the swift opening of their wide portal,
When the bright warder blows his trumpet clear,
Whose tones reach nought on earth but Poet's ear.
When these enchanted portals open wide,
And through the light the horsemen swiftly glide,
The Poet's eye can reach those golden halls,
And view the glory of their festivals:
Their ladies fair, that in the distance seem
Fit for the silv'ring of a seraph's dream;
Their rich brimmed goblets, that incessant run
Like the bright spots that move about the sun;
And, when upheld, the wine from each bright jar
Pours with the lustre of a falling star.
Yet further off, are dimly seen their bowers,
Of which, no mortal eye can reach the flowers;
And 'tis right just, for well Apollo knows
'Twould make the Poet quarrel with the rose.
All that's revealed from that far seat of blisses
Is the clear fountains' interchanging kisses,
As gracefully descending, light and thin,
Like silver streaks across a dolphin's fin,
When he upswimmeth from the coral caves,
And sports with half his tail above the waves.
These wonders strange he sees, and many more,
Whose head is pregnant with poetic lore.
Should he upon an evening ramble fare
With forehead to the soothing breezes bare,
Would he nought see but the dark, silent blue
With all its diamonds trembling through and through?
Or the coy moon, when in the waviness
Of whitest clouds she does her beauty dress,
And staidly paces higher up, and higher,
Like a sweet nun in holy-day attire?
Ah, yes! much more would start into his sight—
The revelries and mysteries of night:
And should I ever see them, I will tell you
Such tales as needs must with amazement spell you.
These are the living pleasures of the bard:
But richer far posterity's reward.
What does he murmur with his latest breath,
While his proud eye looks though the film of death?
"What though I leave this dull and earthly mould,
Yet shall my spirit lofty converse hold
With after times.—The patriot shall feel
My stern alarum, and unsheath his steel;
Or, in the senate thunder out my numbers
To startle princes from their easy slumbers.
The sage will mingle with each moral theme
My happy thoughts sententious; he will teem
With lofty periods when my verses fire him,
And then I'll stoop from heaven to inspire him.
Lays have I left of such a dear delight
That maids will sing them on their bridal night.
Gay villagers, upon a morn of May,
When they have tired their gentle limbs with play
And formed a snowy circle on the grass,
And placed in midst of all that lovely lass
Who chosen is their queen,—with her fine head
Crowned with flowers purple, white, and red:
For there the lily, and the musk-rose, sighing,
Are emblems true of hapless lovers dying:
Between her breasts, that never yet felt trouble,
A bunch of violets full blown, and double,
Serenely sleep:—she from a casket takes
A little book,—and then a joy awakes
About each youthful heart,—with stifled cries,
And rubbing of white hands, and sparkling eyes:
For she's to read a tale of hopes, and fears;
One that I fostered in my youthful years:
The pearls, that on each glist'ning circlet sleep,
Must ever and anon with silent creep,
Lured by the innocent dimples. To sweet rest
Shall the dear babe, upon its mother's breast,
Be lulled with songs of mine. Fair world, adieu!
Thy dales, and hills, are fading from my view:
Swiftly I mount, upon wide spreading pinions,
Far from the narrow bound of thy dominions.
Full joy I feel, while thus I cleave the air,
That my soft verse will charm thy daughters fair,
And warm thy sons!" Ah, my dear friend and brother,
Could I, at once, my mad ambition smother,
For tasting joys like these, sure I should be
Happier, and dearer to society.
At times, 'tis true, I've felt relief from pain
When some bright thought has darted through my brain:
Through all that day I've felt a greater pleasure
Than if I'd brought to light a hidden treasure.
As to my sonnets, though none else should heed them,
I feel delighted, still, that you should read them.
Of late, too, I have had much calm enjoyment,
Stretched on the grass at my best loved employment
Of scribbling lines for you. These things I thought
While, in my face, the freshest breeze I caught.
E'en now I'm pillowed on a bed of flowers
That crowns a lofty clift, which proudly towers
Above the ocean-waves, The stalks, and blades,
Chequer my tablet with their quivering shades.
On one side is a field of drooping oats,
Through which the poppies show their scarlet coats;
So pert and useless, that they bring to mind
The scarlet coats that pester human-kind.
And on the other side, outspread, is seen
Ocean's blue mantle streaked with purple, and green.
Now 'tis I see a canvassed ship, and now
Mark the bright silver curling round her prow.
I see the lark dowm-dropping to his nest,
And the broad winged sea-gull never at rest;
For when no more he spreads his feathers free,
His breast is dancing on the restless sea.
Now I direct my eyes into the west,
Which at this moment is in sunbeams drest:
Why westward turn? 'Twas but to say adieu!
'Twas but to kiss my hand, dear George, to you!
whenever ur running out of time,
to complete your assignments,
you see no hope of getting on time,
but then u realize that there is someone,
who will surely help, no matter what time it is,
you always come to me for help,
and i may refuse but God u r so sure,
that i won't let you down,
i will help you out inspite of anything,
to make your assignment the best of all,
and there are conditions that i put you on,
to buy me the chocos and icecreams i want,
and you have no choice but to say yes,
but you know brother that i will always be there,
because you are special and i will always care.
Who was aged five when I was born
My brother
Who hid my toys and broke my dolls
My brother
Who avoided his sister at school all day
My brother
Who tolerated my teenage years
My brother
Who as an adult became a friend
My brother
Who mellowed with each passing year
My brother
Who supported my desire to immigrate
My brother
Who was there when others weren't
My brother
Who buried our parents while I was gone
My brother
Who cherished every visit I made
My brother
Who had his ticket to visit me here
My brother
Who unexpectedly died this year
My brother
You were still my brother
no matter what you did
or how you lived
and I loved you.
We were not as close
in latter years
as we were
when we were younger.
I wish you were here
so I could hold you
one last time
before you had to go.
The last time I saw you
you looked so very cold.
(Dedicated To The Memory Of my Brother
Who Died Last Year)
(2000)
sirloin over an open flame
lost its flavor when I went broke
but this handful of coins insists
a hot bowl of soup
will get you where you need to be
I am one of the least of your brothers.
I am neither your son or your lover.
I am just another.
I am just a face in the crowd.
Neither silent or loud.
I just need your love and support
People are my court.
They decide whether I should live or die
Or sit on the pavement and cry.
Give me faith give me hope
Because I cannot cope.
I have no distinctive features
I am no street preacher
Sometimes I am a wretched creature.
I have no money I am poor
Siting with my begging bowl on the floor.
Knocking on your door
For shelter on your floor!
I have no girlfriend I cannot score
No one cares for me anymore.
I stink but I try not to think
I try not to think
I try not to think that I wish I hadn't been born.
I have a yawn…..
Then I sleep on a park bench till dawn.
If God could give us a new brother?
What type of broyher would he give us?
Would he be a very friendly brother?
If God could give us a new brother?
It would be nice to have a brother that listens to us
If God could give us a new brother?
Could he be our friend?
Could he share his feelings with us?
If God could give us a new brother?
Could he stop to put us down?
Could he show us his love?
If God could give us a new brother?
It would be impossible
Because there would had to be our mother and father
They would be the ones that could do it through God
Now it is history for us
Unless it is a friend that is humble
A friend that has some feelings and understanding
He could be our new brother
Brothers we can never change
Or get rid of
They are a part of us
Weather we like it or not
In hte ghetto you'll never know when it's gonna be your time.
sitten here in the ghetto thinken about time we had,
gawd damn i miss my brother Janus Warbus.
How could it be somebody took my bro from me
my funny brother is gone and now o feel all alone
I really miss my brother Janus Eugene Warbus.
Even though he's gone away i know he's in a better place,
and i hope to see him some day.
I used to ahng my bro
even slang with my bro
gawd damn i miss my bro
it's so hard to see my brother in the dirt that's ten feet under.
His kids are so adoreable
they start to look like him each and mintue of there life's
it's so hard to see my brother riden in that black car,
man i miss my brother
Janus Eugene Warbus
O mother mine, Dau (Balram)forever teases me.
you never gave birth to me,
and I was bought in the market.
this is what he tells me
o mother mihne, Dau forever teases me.
fed up of his teasing ways,
I don't go out to play.
who is your mother?
and who is your father?
again and again he says.
Yasoda's fair, so also Nanda,
how come you're so dark?
Dau provokes, the gopas laugh,
and all have such a lark.
me, mother, you want to beat,
but Dau you never even scold,
seeing the anger on Mohan's face
Yasoda's joy was untold,
listen Kanha, Balbhadra is naughty,
wicked from his birth,
you're my son, and I your mother,
I swear by mother cows worth!
Little brother, can’t you see
You follow me around like a bumble bee
Taking and using all my toys
You cry so much, its too much noise
Little sister, can’t you tell
You’re perfume has a very strange smell
Dancing and singing, then you weep
Stop coming in my room so I may sleep
But wait!  I love you two
Without your company there’s nothing to do
My Little Brother…You grew up so promisingly
I glad I had you as a brother as you will have my back
I’m so proud of you!
As you getting straight A’s in your classes
You told me that you wished you was me but
You shouldn’t! I want you to be yourself
Show this world how it should be run
I read your poetry with great pride
I wish you would see through my eyes
But don’t worry my words will speak it for me
I think you are a king in the making.
You read about our black leaders and always
Striving for knowledge just like me and the scholars
You are the lion of the family as you let our enemies
Hear you roar with your fists and your remarks
Brother don’t worry life will get easy for you
As your hard work will pay as a special girl
Will notice you from a distance and hunt you down
You have you as her king and you will have a queen
People will follow your greatness and your footsteps
You are destined for great things as God foresee this fate
As I am proud to say I am your big brother I can look at you
Become the world’s next big thing I lay back in my
Vault of poetry to write on until my heart stops beating
And have the future generation to found my poetry and say
“A genius wrote this” I love you bro. Live free and lead on!
Wars have been and wars will be
Till the human race is run;
Battles red by land and sea,
Never peace beneath the sun.
I am old and little care;
I'll be cold, my lips be dumb:
Brother mine, beware, beware . . .
Evil looms the wrath to come.
Eastern skies are dark with strife,
Western lands are stark with fear;
Rumours of world-war are rife,
Armageddon draweth near.
If your carcase you would save,
Hear, oh hear, the dreadful drum!
Fly to forest, cower in cave . . .
Brother, heed the wrath to come!
Brother, you were born too late;
Human life is but a breath.
Men delve deep, where darkly wait
Sinister the seeds of death,
There's no moment to delay;
Sorrowing the stars are blind.
Little Brother, how I pray
You may sanctuary find.
Peoples of the world succumb . . .
Fly, poor fools, the WRATH TO COME!
I've always wanted to play the part
of that puckish pubescent Filipino boy
in those John Wayne Pacific-War movies.
Pepe, Jose, or Juanito would be smiling,
bare-chested and eager to please
for most of the steamy jungle scenes.
I'd be the one who would cross
the Japanese lines and ask for tanks,
air support, or more men. I'd miraculously
make it back to the town where John Wayne
is holding his position against the enemy
with his Thompson machine-gun. As a reward,
he'd rub that big white hand on my head
and he'd promise to let me clean
his Tommy gun by the end of the night. But
then, a Betty Grable look-a-like love
interest would divert him by sobbing
into his shoulder, saying how awfully scared
she is about what the "Japs" would do
to her if she were captured. In one swift
motion, John Wayne would sweep her off
her feet to calm her fears inside his private quarters.
Because of my Hollywood ability
to be anywhere, I'd be under the bed
watching the woman roll down her stockings
as my American hero unbuckles his belt.
I'd feel the bottom of the bed bounce off my chest
as small-arms fire explodes outside the walls.
Submitted by Samuel Hamada
the sound of your poetry is just perfect,
in fact more than perfect, it has the tongue of the witch in mindanao
with the lenght covering the distance between the roof and the floor
and it knows well how to tickle
the numbness of nerves in my mind
it knows how to deal with words, it is bilingual, it is piercing
it creates the labyrinths of mystery
and marvel and wonder and amazement
it know where to start
from the very ordinary handle of a kettle
to the face of the laddle to the the tails and ways of those grinning cats
looking for love on the roof that night
it has a way of making the ash so significant
from ordinariness
to the metaphysical
from the usual hello to the
surprising goodbye
giving  life from the fire that i have long forgotten
it is perfect, more than perfect
i am amazed
there are more meanings that i can attach too
under my skin
and then i am lost
to be candid, after reading them, i have convinced myself
yes i like it
not the tongue, but the words shaped by the  tongue
but i cannot really remember what was said
i have not understood what you pointed out with your hand
forgive me
but i am going to the next page
the one that speaks about love to the heart
without so much sophistication
the one that simply says: i like you let us talk.
On a special delayed morning
When I was still snoring
My mom was taken to the hospital
For she was a very pregnant lady
She returned home with a gift
A gift I still cherish
For she brought home for me, a brother
A cute and cuddly li’l baby you
Your baby steps trodden my mind
And each time you trip,
I made sure to catch you
Your blinking eyes were baby blue
Scribbled with many forget-me-nots
Your hugs were tempting
It comforted me
Your soft kisses
Were heavenly sent!
I stayed by you
In the days you grew
I gazed to see
What a man you’ll be
I walked like a shadow
Tracing your each step
I wanted to guide you
Through your wrongs and mistakes
I’ll miss this angel
In years to come
For you’ll be busy
With work to do
I write this poem here, right now
‘Coz this is my only way
To show how much I love you
To prove that I care!
(WRITTEN FOR A BROTHER I ALWAYS WISHED TO HAVE)
Falling through memory's wide open window,
Hitherto kept tightly closed.
I'm flying away into chilhood experience
Where, brother and I were supposed
To be good, while parental strife, flaring
Brightly, would envelope us nightly,
As arms flung round each other
We struggled to sleep,
Despite shouting and fighting
Downstairs, we said pleading prayers
And, always tearful goodnights.
We often cried quietly
Into the darkness my brother and I.
Orphaned from love, we grew close
Together, and clung to each other
Over the ensuing years.
Losing my only beautiful brother
To cancer has emptied and drained
My  lonely heart, despite
Crying rivers of tears.
I reluctantly close that window again
But never will close on my brother, Den.
I was here thinking about way back when
I guess maybe when I was seven or eight, or maybe ten.  Thinking about the time when we still lived back on the farm,
Recalling my thoughts of all the fun we always had in the barn.  We made tunnels in the loose hay from one end to the other,
Then in the bales was our hideaway, "for me and my brother"  There was a pig shed, chicken house, and cattle barn a metal top,
A smoke house, car shed, and holler where we went to shop.  But one of the things I seem to remember most of all,
Was that big old cottonwood in the pasture, it must have been a mile tall.  We could see it from the house looming out there above all the other trees,
With the top sticking way up there moving to and fro in the breezes.  If daddy was going out to work and not going to be gone all day,
Like, when he was going out to mend fence or to get a load of hay.  Daddy would us off by this tree so could play, "my brother and me",
He would tell us to stay close and play near this big old cottonwood tree.  The limbs were too huge for us to get a hold of and too far off the ground.
Its trunk looked so big, I bet it would take forty kids to reach 'round.  Then that fatal day during a tremendous rain and lighting storm,
Lightning struck so hard, bark and fire flew, the next day it was still warm.  This grand old tree had survived hundreds of lighting bolts before,
But after daddy had inspected it, he said "it just can't any more"!  The day came when daddies friends came with their axes, mauls, and wedges,
I recall the men stopping often with their axes to sharpen their edges.  Each time the ax would swing, a big hunk of the tree would fly from the tree,
When the men rested wo would pick up the chips, "my bother and me"!  Then down to business, one-man on each handle, no fooling around now,
They traded off one after another, non stop, back and forth, oh wow!  Along about ten mom arrived with some home made rolls, coffee, and iced tea.
At noon, back with chicken, bread, cole slaw, and salad of bean and pea.  Soon there was some creaking, cracking and groaning, daddy said "RUN!"
He pointed the way and began gathering sledges, wedges and said "its done."  Every body just stopped and waited, someone said "its gonna be a winner!"
Then every one took a deep breath and said "all together now"
T---III-NNN---BB-UURRRRR--!!!
She’s lying on the bed, comatose
No familiar faces around, she could stare
Ironic, there was a smell of calitos
Rising up breezily into the air
Somewhere, a patient has died
Of drug overdose
Superstition belief, is to bear
The curse’s door, is to close
Yesterday someone knocked her down
Whilst she was walking down the road
But no one could be found
As who to blame for the sin load
My brother, a sister and me
Watching helplessly
A mother’s love is about to cease
Taste of life will be bitter
God, help us please
You too have taken away our father
My brother, a sister and me
Will life be better?
Those we loved are no longer here
Eternal pains will be forever
My brother, a sister and me
Living in naive, poverty and fear
Thinking who will be
In the next tier,
Climbs to You
To be with our father
And…probably our mother
Too
08/01/2008
Re public of Singapore
My brother has cancer
He’s four years older than me
He’s all that I have left
Of my original family
Medicine freaks him out
So in the hospital he goes
He’s also got dementia
How long he has, know one knows
So I’ve been thinkin’ quite a lot
About our childhood together
It was just he and I
And our dad and our mother
We played games constantly
Got in trouble when we’d fight
But that was a game as well
Our young world seemed so bright
Mom was sick a lot it seemed
I learned to cook quite young
I remember when my brother
Wouldn’t eat the gravy I spun
“I can’t eat this” he would say
“It’s got lots of lumps in there”
But now it makes me smile
So many memories we share.
But his mind is going quickly
I have to visit while it lasts
Chat about the happy times
Of our wonderful childhood past!
My brother in law, AL
Is such a wonderful guy.
He doesn't walk on water...
But if he thought he could,
We would all watch him try!
A great brother and father...
And grandfather too!
There is nothing he would stop
For someone else to do!
He works like a team of horses...
Even when he is sick!
And when he takes time for himself,
We all worry about it!
'He's doing what? ? ?
NOTHING?
What's the matter with him? '
He is 'always' so positive.
Although my sister Mim says,
'Oh, no he's not.
He can give much attitude!
And that's why I love him a lot! '
She 'is' his better half!
They are a match.
That's why they remain attached!
My brother in law, AL...
Is a pal and a friend! I
I often ask him how he does it?
And he just laughs...
Or quietly grins!
He knows who he is.
And those who are blessed...
Have much respect and appreciate him!
But don't call him Alfred Lee...
Geeesshh!
A raised eyebrow to you he will send!
And even then...
He has a smile or a grin to show again.
My brother
Is a part of my family
Because
My mother gave birth to us
Also
And
My brother
Belongs to my family
And he will always be
We all have the same flesh
my brother julian is weird,
but hes not one to be feared,
burgers and fries is all he eats,
loves video games
but he always cheats,
sleeps all night sleeps all day,
he goes to church but i never heard him  pray,
but his nose is special it could smell food a mile away,
he gets crazy and physco thats why i call him violent j,
he loves food like they aint no tommorow,
he eats so fast i sometimes wonder if he swallowed,
hes always first in line to order,
hes favorite food is the ultimate cheeseburger,
hes cool but mostly rude,
but show him your food and violent j will druel.
1/05/2008
Copyright ©2009  Jose Murguia
After I returned from the nursing home,
My Bumped head looked like a dome..
My Brother not giving me a moment of peace,
Started jumping around me like a tease,
How I wished I could beat him then!
But then I remembered my previous happenings again,
The moment I recovered fully,
My brother pinched me and called me a bully!
Suddenly, a plan struck my head!
'Will you play with me? ' to my brother I said
My Brother in reply said'Great! '
And was not a bit afraid!
As he didn't know what I was going to do with him,
He was completely unaware, as to me it seemed.
Then our Great Playing started,
My Brother always dodged me and darted,
Winning the game everytime,
Then I thought of doing my crime!
My plan was to hold him by his knee
And tickle him till he cried, you see,
But with my blasted luck!
I was the Sitting duck,
'cause soon my brother heart his nose
And I was full of remose
I never wanted gom to hurt that way,
But my mom didn't listen to what I had to say,
She thought that I was taking revenge,
And scolded me like a savage,
So you now see what kind of a boy my brother is,
So my request Is stay away from him please!
My Brother is very bad
He always makes my mother sad
By complaining about me to her
And sometimes to my big fat sir
Never you would suspect him
of doing the smallest bad thing
But as his elder brother I know
How he will be when he grows!
Once He tore my science book
And gave me a wicked look
After I complained to my mother
My cute little brother,
Clasped my mom by her neck
And began to sob, which was(of course)   fake
'Come on, now look at his face
He can't do such a thing'she says
This was much a disgrace,
So I ran to hit his face,
But as I tried to beat him, I slipped,
And on the Ground Tripped,
Then Against the floor I bumped my head,
And Opened my eyes in the hospital bed!
My Brother is ther one who helps me up when i have fallen.
My brother is the one who is always saying no he cant be your boyfriend.
My brother is the one who sticks up for me.
My brother is the first one to fight for me.
My brother the one I love with all my heart.
My brother the strong one.
my brother is my everthing
Thank you brother
My brother
Is my son
He is my elder brother
And yet
He is
My smallest
Brother
Still!
my brother's so sweet
in times of need he is there
my brother's so responsible
he taught me a lot of things
my brother's so funny
we even teared from laughing
my brother's so fierce
don't mess with him when his angry
my brother fell inlove
and he's very very happy
my brother made up his mind
and had a nice sweet family
my brother is away
i'm sad when i think of it
but my brother's heart is good
and i know he will never forget me.
a big brother
is a guy i love to be around
he is a very close friend i found
a big brother
is a guy who always seems
to care and is always there
a big brother
is a guy that i can look up to
because he always knows what to do
a big brother
is a guy i want to see
he will always understand me
that guy i talk about
is not my big brother
he is just a brother
i wish i had
My brother
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
To take life
To have life
My brother did both
He is the source of all evil
The good in every evil
He lay down at let life fly
When he arise he wants to die
To take life to a new heights
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
He does things that hurt me so bad
That I wish he would die
He punishes me for the simplest thing
That’s when I turn mean
He tells on me to mother
When I do nothing at all
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
He is my best friend
My friend that would do anything for me
From taking a life
To giving CPR
Stand next to me from thick and thin
Until the end of our time
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
He is my keeper
My keeper that feeds me
That helps me make decisions
He is were my home is
He will take a bullet, or knife
To throat
He is my and all ways will be my keeper
My brother Lamont
My brother is my keeper
My brother is my best friend
My brother is my pain
My brother is my hero
My Brother is so annoying
My Brother is so sad
My Brother drives me crazy
it makes me wanna go mad.
My Brother makes my father constantly yell
My Brother makes my mother cry
My Brother makes me wanna go die, sometimes...
My Brother is crazy
My Brother is nuts
Sometimes I want to grab him and choke him til' he goes nuts
Someday I won't have my brother
and I wish that day will never come
because surely without him
I will nor be the same
The moment you were born
We were all happy to see you
You were precious gift to us from God
My mother held you in her arms
You were charming and we named you Deva
We hugged you a sign of affection and love
We hugged you a sign of little loving baby
You were growing up as special person
We took so much care about you
But your death brought us a great shock
I asked God why did my brother have to die
Our tears of sadness still roll over our eyes
And sad for our mother who believes you are still alive
I know when nature calls one has to leave this world
On that day I will meet you in the same world where you are
But till then my tears will not stop for you.......
My ever loving brother Deva.
My favorite brother is really helpful and even funny. He's really great at  making friends, better than me ill say. My brother is always there for me and hes almost never annoying. My brother loves me and I love him too. Because he's my favorite brother, because he's my only brother.
Dedicated to my favorite brother
Regi
My little brother is full of joy
One of the few things in life that I enjoy
He always loves to go to the park
But he’s still afraid of the dark
My little brother knows I go to school
But for this he thinks I’m cool
He always loves to smile
To see this smile, would be worthwhile.
My little brother has a big heart
My little brother is pure art.
Sticky fingers and a chocolate face
Broken toys and a broken vase
Cars and trucks here and there
Boats and crayons everywhere
Bats and balls strewn in the yard
Sweaty face from playing hard
Broken bones and bloody knees
Stings from ants and wasps and bees
Feet stomping on the floor
Fingerprints on the sliding door
A painful cry and a whimpering whine
A mischevious smile that seems to shine
Face being licked by the dog
Rolling around in the mud like a hog
Housing reptiles of all shapes and sizes
Always full of odd surprises
Tracking mud from shoes and clothes
Yet another bloody nose
Sneaking cookies from the cookie jar
Face streaked black with mud and tar
Ketchup stains on your new shirt
Brand new shoes covered with dirt
Sometimes you can be quite a bother
But I love you anyways because you're my little brother
Rebekah J (age 12)  © May 2008
I sometimes get angry at my mother,
For giving birth to such a naughty brother!
He'll never be my kind of lover,
Mostly because he scribbled on my favourite magazine cover.
'He is such a brat. I'll never love him! ' I say,
My mother replies, 'You never know, one day you may.'
In front of my parents he'll act very sweet,
They call him, 'Our Little Parakeet'.
Behind their back, he makes faces at me,
And if I shout, he'll start crying so my mom can see!
I'm really tired of him hanging around,
More so, I'm tired of hearing his stupid sound.
I've got to put up a board in the backyard without telling my mother,
It says in red ink, 'Adopt a brother'!
My sister and brother grew up without their dad
though they wouldn't admit it, I knew it made them sad
Our mom always did the best that she could
for she knew he was out of their lives for good
It was his choice to stay out of their lives
it was the love of his children himself he did deprive
Now they are older and off on their own
His rejection of them he could never atone
out stepdad has been a better father then, their dad could ever be
Our stepdad has been our constant our solid oak tree
written by: Denise Girod 1-18-05
My sweet brother…! ! !
I am blessed with a sweet little brother,
And I am thankful to god that he didn’t give me someone other,
We went to the same school,
And had our food in the same dining room,
Books had been his greatest enemies,
But he had to study because there was no other remedy,
Red marks were prominent in his result,
But still he never took them as an insult,
He believed in being playful,
And this was the only thing which he considered to be useful…! !
But now he is a grown up guy,
Who doesn’t like toys and is not shy,
He is the one with whom I can share,
And he listens to me and never ever stares,
He cannot see a tear in my eye,
And this makes me feel not to give up and to try forever,
He has now become very responsible,
And I know if he gets the support he is very capable,
He is self obsessed with his looks,
And convinces us either by hook or by crook…! !
I am gonna get married in a while,
And I know he has already decided about the style,
As he is there I am not worried about my mom,
Because I know his care and love will make her strong,
I am sorry for my mistakes,
But I love you to the core and this is one thing which no one can
take…! !
Love you bhai….thanks for supporting me….! !
Oh, brother, my brother
Don't weep;
Though dark clouds
hid the day
and dark clay
filled the roofs;
it will come to pass- soon!
God will see you through.
He left Ireland in nineteen fifty two
Our brother John the man I barely knew
He was the eldest of the family
And the Homeland he was never more to see.
In life our brother John he journeyed far
He lived through peace time and he lived through war
In Korea with the Air Force of the U.S.A.
Far distant from the fields of Claraghatlea.
One of my sisters Mary wrote to me
She said our brother died with dignity
In death as in his life he showed his bravery
And at least now of his sufferings he's free.
Our brother John left two sons and a wife
And he worked hard all of his working life
Only in his sixties he seemed young to die
He was my hero when I was a boy.
From Millstreet thousands of sea miles away
Our brother John in a distant graveyard lay
And though I'd not seen him for more than thirty years
The news of his passing reduced me to tears.
He was the quiet man never spoke too loud
And of our brother John we felt so proud
In his death from his sufferings he found his release
And may he rest forevermore in peace.
Behold! three sister-wonders, in whom met,
Distinct and chast, the splendrous counterfeit
Of Juno, Venus and the warlike Maid,
Each in their three divinities array'd;
The majesty and state of Heav'ns great Queen,
And when she treats the gods, her noble meen;
The sweet victorious beauties and desires
O' th' sea-born princess, empresse too of fires;
The sacred arts and glorious lawrels torn
From the fair brow o' th' goddesse father-born;
All these were quarter'd in each snowy coat,
With canton'd honours of their own, to boot.
Paris, by fate new-wak'd from his dead cell,
Is charg'd to give his doom impossible.
He views in each the brav'ry of all Ide;
Whilst one, as once three, doth his soul divide.
Then sighs so equally they're glorious all:
WHAT PITY THE WHOLE WORLD IS BUT ONE BALL!
a gentle breeze blows ocean side
the easter lilies usher in the spring
and there you are with your guitar
won*t you play a song for me
cat sang about a peace train and
john imagined the world living
together in harmony but oh how now
world peace seems a far gone thing
there are so many questions
unanswered so it seems to me
while i remember days gone by
when we sang songs of love and peace
a small naked boy - holding a hose
blond hair smooth
mine was always fizzy
a curly-headed girl running,
running, face white as linen
'Mummy, David's stuck in the drain! '
mucking around - down the river
on Christmas holidays in the boat
pinching apples from Wagner's orchard
always too slow - running away
from mum, armed with a gumboot
God, she could be fierce!
dangerous folly - towing me in the A30
on your Harley Davidson
with only two meters of rope
so creative, lighting my shows
sliding the dimmers, never fazed
when things went wrong - ever
teasing me - first dinner with Roddy
my creme caramel like
'pieces of broken tile'
Christmases at Manningtree Road
where all the crockery matched
and the grand piano needed tuning
passionate dog lover
thumping Nicholas
tenderly when he was very old
the spare bed you made up
for Jerry and me to share
when I left Bellbird Lane
sitting beside my hospital bed
when I had pneumonia
holding my hand - every day
my dear and only brother
sensuous and compassionate
lover of beauty, I offer you
these lines with sisterly affection
Follow the ravens who gather
in the weeping willows.
Silent and starving
near the bank. Dusk curls at
your feet. You watch the busy
hands of trees
pointing toward the river, divided
by an island. A dead ash stands
like a bone knife
Plunged into its chest. Black
swans swimming in it's stomach.
You whisper a prayer for the dying.
River bleeds over stone, smoothes
away rough edges. While the
moon perches on edge of some
unseen horizon.  You wonder if
stars seek a sense of place. Step
over things as not to invade shadows.
You are certain they know the river
is bleeding. Know that you are the
one story that began out of place.
You are the best I have, my brother nice!
I know so well you suffer too like me;
Your heart is honest, broadminded, and wise;
I pray God must bless you quite soon surely.
You have a mind well-read, of course and sane;
I know that life has been to you unkind!
You are a boon, the elder son not bane;
Do continue your good work, I remind.
You are the one in whom I can confide;
Ever ready to help others always;
Don’t worry much, be brave; in God abide;
They are so nigh, your lucky, happy days.
So far, you have done well in life, don’t brood;
Be undeterred and never spoil your mood!
3-6-2001by Dr John Celes
dedicated to my most belov’d, elder brother
Er. A. Joebert Selvan B.E., M.E., Chennai, T.N., INDIA
My brother's in a wheelchair
and he can't jump or run
but I can throw a ball to him
to catch and we have fun.
He can't do a lot of things
that other kids can do.
He needs help getting dressed
and he can't tie his shoes.
Mommy told me it's called 'special'
when a child is born that way.
I said I could have told her that...
My brother's special every day.
I remember that dreadful morning,
Waking to the beast,
Time had stopped, the news reckless
A beautiful boy amazing but deceased
I heard my heart shatter  and my soul screamed a cry
The couler the detail I remember like yesterday
But I just wished I’d I said a final goodbye,
Ruthless pain i hide so deep inside,
I wish I could take you just once
With me for a ride,
Because I don’t remember if I even held you,
And now I cant even call you, or even hear your voice,
But I need to tell you i still love you
And yes I know I need to let go, but I know I cant just let you go
I need to hold you in my arms, in my life
Just one more time
Because my heart is broken from not saying good bye
Im sorry I never said goodbye or held you the day you died
WHY OH WHY
Did I not say good bye
But my love is here with the tears
I miss you my brother dear,
I love you
I figured I should call you
Before I started drinking again.
Because you don’t answer,
I started without you
Since last night I had a vision
In which the planes were falling,
Again, a kind of religious silver rain.
And you became the lucky number
That slipped from the pant’s pocket
Of my childhood while incest was
Dug up behind the tomato vines
And all the flesh and bones bathed
In the hot south Florida sunlight
As the trailer with the holes in the
Floor was locked tightly before they
Began the raid on the immigrant workers.
They are advertising human sacrifice
On the billboards down Military Trail,
As people pass on from high-school
Forgetting such detritus as their locker
Numbers and first loves,
The way the shadows pooled under
The overgrown hollies in the early morning
Beside the bus-stop as the mist rose up
And the lions roared down the street.
And driving with ex-relatives barking
At the side of my face only to recede into
The hills where the snow is quickly melting,
The world turns old and further away
From the life gained from the sun
From which the old god walks away,
Leaving his destroyed garden to his bastards sons
Who perpetuate themselves through
Our sick games played out between the
Battlefields of eyes upon which even
The fly experiences strangulation on the
Dying eyelid of Cain’s unfortunate brother.
None lives for ever, brother, and
nothing lasts for long. Keep that in
mind and rejoice.
Our life is not the one old burden,
our path is not the one long
journey.
One sole poet has not to sing one
aged song.
The flower fades and dies; but he
who wears the flower has not to
mourn for it for ever.
Brother, keep that in mind and
rejoice.
There must come a full pause to
weave perfection into music.
Life droops toward its sunset to be
drowned in the golden shadows.
Love must be called from its play
to drink sorrow and be borne to the
heaven of tears.
Brother, keep that in min and
rejoice.
We hasten to gather our flowers lest
they are plundered by the passing
winds.
It quickens our blood and brightens
our eyes to snatch kisses that would
vanish if we delayed.
Our life is eager, our desires are keen,
for time tolls the bell of parting.
Brother, keep that in mind and
rejoice.
There is not time for us to clasp a
thing and crush it and fling it away to
the dust.
The hours trip rapidly away, hiding
their dreams in their skirts.
Our life is short; it yields but a
few days for love.
Were it for work and drudgery it
would be endlessly long.
Brother, keep that in mind and
rejoice.
Beauty is sweet to us, because she
dances to the same fleeting tune with
our lives.
Knowledge is precious to us, because
we shall never have time to
complete it.
All is done and finished in the eternal
Heaven.
But earth's flowers of illusion are
kept eternally fresh by death.
Brother, keep that in mind and
rejoice.
He stands at a Roundabout,
A white placard of black letters
And with a strap around his neck
It exhibits an advertisement of a new pay loan Center.
The poor chap's dance is very attractive
And I approached him pussyfoot.
I called him; 'Brother, for three things I came to you,
Firstly, you resemble my deceased loving brother once the bread-winner of our poor family.
Secondly, I am very inquisitive about the loan.
Thirdly, I am jobless and seeking a position to survive.
But I cannot dance like you and I am not belong to your soil; a different planet
Where I have come from?
So my dance would be typical and I am scared even to my oblique shadow.
Just imagine dear, when somebody is in hunger what about his dance? '
* my humble dedication to the poetess Dove Allen
And we shall not leave
This country we shall build
Because it is ours
Throughout the golden hours
Here we belong
For quite long
Our great forefather
Was buried here
And though in poverty
We must stay
As we enjoy what we have
Under the sun we love
The coolness of the moon
We all swoon and don
We shall be proud as a tree
We enjoy our liberty
We shall live we shall die
There is no reason to cry
I.
If teares could wash the ill away,
A pearle for each wet bead I'd pay;
But as dew'd corne the fuller growes,
So water'd eyes but swell our woes.
II.
One drop another cals, which still
(Griefe adding fuell) doth distill;
Too fruitfull of her selfe is anguish,
We need no cherishing to languish.
III.
Coward fate degen'rate man
Like little children uses, when
He whips us first, untill we weepe,
Then, 'cause we still a weeping keepe.
IV.
Then from thy firme selfe never swerve;
Teares fat the griefe that they should sterve;
Iron decrees of destinie
Are ner'e wipe't out with a wet eye.
V.
But this way you may gaine the field,
Oppose but sorrow, and 'twill yield;
One gallant thorough-made resolve
Doth starry influence dissolve.
Life of my life, take not so soon thy flight,
But stay the time till we have bade good-night.
Thou hast both wind and tide with thee; thy way
As soon dispatch'd is by the night as day.
Let us not then so rudely henceforth go
Till we have wept, kiss'd, sigh'd, shook hands, or so.
There's pain in parting, and a kind of hell
When once true lovers take their last farewell.
What? shall we two our endless leaves take here
Without a sad look, or a solemn tear?
He knows not love that hath not this truth proved,
Love is most loth to leave the thing beloved.
Pay we our vows and go; yet when we part,
Then, even then, I will bequeath my heart
Into thy loving hands; for I'll keep none
To warm my breast, when thou, my pulse, art gone,
No, here I'll last, and walk, a harmless shade,
About this urn, wherein thy dust is laid,
To guard it so, as nothing here shall be
Heavy, to hurt those sacred seeds of thee.
to my baby brother on the anniversary of your birth,
to my little brother your make my world spin, my earth,
20th june 07-
As school drew to a close i ran to get to you,
On the way to the hospital, the moment becoming true,
arrival around 4pm and found mum in the room,
she looked like she was all drugged up no element of gloom,
I had to leave for home about 5 o'clock, didnt want to go,
I was so excited to be told the information written below;
Thomas
8lb 1oz
52cm
Healthy boy
7: 35pm - 20/06/2007
little did i know he would now become the most precious thing in my life,
that he would nag, moan, groan and whine at me until he had his own wife,
T is for Terrific
H is for Huggable
O is for rOund xx
M is for Mine!
A is for Awwwwwww....
S is for Something unique
That something unique is a brother/sister bond,
When i say a word his laughter responds,
He brings an extra meaning into my busy world,
But somehow theres always time for him my boy, my brother, my whole entire world! ! x
Many the wonders I this day have seen:
The sun, when first he kissed away the tears
That filled the eyes of Morn;—the laurelled peers
Who from the feathery gold of evening lean;—
The ocean with its vastness, its blue green,
Its ships, its rocks, its caves, its hopes, its fears,
Its voice mysterious, which whoso hears
Must think on what will be, and what has been.
E'en now, dear George, while this for you I write,
Cynthia is from her silken curtains peeping
So scantly, that it seems her bridal night,
And she her half-discovered revels keeping.
But what, without the social thought of thee,
Would be the wonders of the sky and sea?
Brother, today I sit on the brick bench of the house,
where you make a bottomless emptiness.
I remember we used to play at this hour, and mama
caressed us: "But, sons..."
Now I go hide
as before, from all evening
lectures, and I trust you not to give me away.
Through the parlor, the vestibule, the corridors.
Later, you hide, and I do not give you away.
I remember we made ourselves cry,
brother, from so much laughing.
Miguel, you went into hiding
one night in August, toward dawn,
but, instead of chuckling, you were sad.
And the twin heart of those dead evenings
grew annoyed at not finding you. And now
a shadow falls on my soul.
Listen, brother, don't be late
coming out. All right? Mama might worry.
Give me your hand, my brother, search my face;
Look in these eyes lest I should think of shame;
For we have made an end of all things base.
We are returning by the road we came.
Your lot is with the ghosts of soldiers dead,
And I am in the field where men must fight.
But in the gloom I see your laurell’d head
And through your victory I shall win the light.
People wish to be settled. Only as long as they are unsettled is there any hope for them.
-- Thoreau
My life has been
the instrument
for a mouth
I have never seen,
breathing wind
which comes
from I know not
where,
arranging and changing
my moods,
so as to make
an opening
for his voice.
Or hers.
Muse, White Goddess
mother with invisible
milk,
androgynous god
in whose grip
I struggle,
turning this way and that,
believing that I chart
my life,
my loves,
when in fact
it is she, he,
who charts them--
all for the sake
of some
as yet unwritten poem.
Twisting in the wind,
twisting like a pirate
dangling in a cage
from a high seawall,
the wind whips
through my bones
making an instrument,
my back a xylophone,
my sex a triangle
chiming,
my lips stretched tight
as drumskins,
I no longer care
who is playing me,
but fear
makes the hairs
stand up
on the backs
of my hands
when I think
that she may stop.
And yet I long
for peace
as fervently as you do--
the sweet connubial bliss
that admits no
turbulence,
the settled life
that defeats poetry,
the hearth before which
children play--
not poets' children,
ragtag, neurotic, demon-ridden,
but the apple-cheeked children
of the bourgeoisie.
My daughter dreams
of peace
as I do:
marriage, proper house,
proper husband,
nourishing dreamless
sex,
love like a hot toddy,
or an apple pie.
But the muse
has other plans
for me
and you.
Puppet mistress,
dangling us
on this dark proscenium,
pulling our strings,
blowing us
toward Cornwall,
toward Venice, toward Delphi,
toward some lurching
counterpane,
a tent upheld
by one throbbing
blood-drenched pole--
her pen, her pencil,
the monolith
we worship,
underneath
the gleaming moon.
The first time, we met; you treated me,
Like a sibling, like a brother.
It was friendship; it was love at first sight;
In a very short time, you became my faithful mentor,
The good shepherd despite your prestigious might.
You do not discriminate against anybody;
You are the man that I yearn to emulate:
The consummate professional, the prelate,
Who fights the right battle, and who, eventually,
Won justice for your sanity and for others.
When we worked together, you were not perfect,
However, I could rely in you and trusted your ways;
You had a way of dealing with the imperfect
World, you had a way to warn me of the dangers.
A man can love another man for his good character,
For good morale, and unblemished behaviors.
Even now, you are still a brother, not an actor;
You remain frank and truthful with me all the time.
My brother, you were the perfect employer,
You stood by me in good time and in bad time.
When things got tough with the impostors,
I stood by you, because I knew that you were innocent;
Because I knew that you had strong work ethics
.
God has a way of protecting people, who are decent;
Family men like you and me,
Quality men like you and me.
Even though that we look very different
From each other;
You will forever
Remain my beloved brother.
I thank you for your understanding,
You are my star; I thank you for everything.
Copyright © February 2009 Hebert Logerie, All rights reserved
Hebert Logerie is the author of two poetry books: “Sparkles of Love” and “Etincelles de l’Amour”
Hébert Logerie is the author of “Mounts And Valleys of Love”
https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359
PLEASE ORDER AT ORDERS@XLIBRIS.COM OR CALL 1-866-957-5010!
What is a brother?
Someone who is there
when you are hurting
He picks you up
and dusts you off again
What is a brother?
Someone who sees you are without a smile
And he gives you one of his
and gives you a hug too
just especially for you
What is a brother?
Someone who stands by your side
and holds your hand
when things don’t go well
He helps you understand
What is a brother?
A cherished friend for life
a brother by blood
A cousin or friend
But always by love
As butterflies with beauty grace the air,
so love cannot be lazy in its love;
true love brings lovely energies to bear;
love's actions grace the true contemplative.
devoted action is the path we tread
when stirred at first by love of love's first  cause;
to purge our souls of that we wish us rid;
such tasks may grace our caterpillar days.
humility - which is to know pure self,
seen clearly as the light of bad and good -
brings contemplation's share in godly wealth;
those shining works which are love's neighbourhood;
then we God's goodness, truth and beauty share;
as butterflies with beauty grace the air.
In elegant dress
Blue-Winged butterfly poses
Jeweled in Saphire Lace
Dorothy Alves Holmes
A Poet Who Loves...
The darned life crawls through the smooth & silky roads
But rival thorns; And he feels the fragrance of a distant Gypsy flower
But his patchy lungs won't keep enough breath for the tiresome journey.
*To my first kind critic of the site
poetess Amanda. Lukas
........................It’s a butterfly day.
...............Not yet what color can I say.
.................The rain has just subsided.
...............The rainbow no longer abides.
.......................Yet its colors are
...........................spilling still
....................on the window sill
..................from flower to flower.
.......I found some algae in my aqua today
and didn’t know whether to be happy or sad.
............Then alit on it some butterflies.
.............Later came some dragonflies
..................depositing their secrets
.........-they caught me holding my breath -
...................momentarily we all met
.....................as if only passing by
................searching over the waters
..................for reflections of the sky
Tell me what's happening to me?
Why is my heart beating so fervently?
why has this madness, like a wave,
Broken through the rock of habit?
Is it my strength or just my torment
I'm too disturbed to tell:
From the shimmering lines of life
I extract a forgotten phrase...
Is it a thief who turns his lantern
Upon the crowd of dreary letters?
I can't help reading the phrase,
But haven't the strength to go back...
It really had to flare up,
But it only harries the darkness;
All night, like a gas-flame butterfly
It trembles, but cannot escape...
I.
Wonder winged luminous in my eyes.
Elegance sheer I perceive and prize
On a flower who plays the sun of skies.
What psyche fair in colours does rise
In flight of swerve and curve amid ease?
It my eyes trail wherever to please
Me to relish harmony it frees
Through me as my heart awes in its choice.
My heart sings of its hush to rejoice
On its coaxing wings of love as its voice
Drenched in rhythm to flutter with grace,
Sends its charm my ardour does embrace.
Seeming emitted from its wings' base,
Are bubbles leaping for bliss my eyes face.
II.
Bliss viewed from its pride glowing in flight.
What muse fuelled it to fill the air with light?
Air groomed as spanking breeze to incite
Scenery refreshed with humour bright
Like the ocean of tune in my thought,
Alp's summit in my spirit it wrought,
Joy in its ripened bloom I have sought.
Gladness indispensable is found,
As the place whole revolving around
Me glistens with colours bright abound.
How the colours blaze as bright as gold,
My survey of such is turning bold.
Of my being it inclines to mold,
Description is arduous to be told.
III.
Influences me its aplomb calm,
To rise from seat to be nigh its charm.
Magnetised I extend my right arm
To induce it to float in my palm.
Tenderness on my palm it does stream,
Of experience this touch is a dream.
Filled is my soul with the summer's gleam,
Delectation my soul such will own.
Splendid grandeur in its beam is shown.
Spring of roses in my heart is grown.
Lavishing me with boon stark like the sun
In its giving of joy firm to run.
What enthusiasm star-like in one,
Who has fetched at its very best, fun.
My butterfly is no longer mine,
I wonder if she ever really was;
When she alights on my shoulder
I know she wants me to hold her -
Flies off and she's mine no longer.
My butterfly so frail and fine,
I wonder if hers I ever was;
When she returns to kiss me again
I know she's more than just a friend -
Flies off and gone forever more.
`
A beautiful butterfly flies high above.
It gracefully emits, warm rays of love.
flies &  swings its wings, like a dove.
beautiful colours, it glitters like  gold
Sweet, calm, sweet message it holds
Warm, tender it’s lights never grow old.
It opens it wings & makes day brighter.
It sends sweet rays, makes heart lighter.
it breathes love, to make faces softer.
It warmly charms hearts, soul & minds,
cheerful smile, merit in it wing you’ll find.
The purest flush in it’s eyes wink so kind.
7/28/2006 John Nelson
A butterfly
Sleeping
With grass...
Grass is
Butterfly bed...?
I'm a bleeding butterfly.
My wings are made of glass but are strong enough to carry me.
My spirit glides like the summer breeze..
Fragile yet untouched.
I'm a bleeding butterfly,
I will leave a rainbow in your sky
with a trail of tears behind me.
To love me is fatal,
To feel me is toxic.
To touch me would break me.
The thought is too much.
A Romantic Dialogue
The Butterfly:
"O Bright Sunflower! How handsome you are!
Can I come and sit on your yellow petals?
Your sparkling luminosity makes me bounce with happiness,
Your golden hue makes me fly in circles with joyfulness,
Your symmetrical centre filled with seeds is, verily, blessedness! "
The Sun Flower:
"O Beautiful Butterfly! You are my muse!
No! Not the dazzling Sun who dazzles from a distant,
But You! My pretty Butterfly!
You are flitting around me all the time,
Playing and parading your shining wings,
Swinging and springing like a belly dancer!
Come! Let us dance and waltz around!
Or would you prefer to dance the Tango?
There is not much time for us to waste,
The sun will set by evening! Make haste!
You are here only for a day! Not more!
We are a perfect match,
Attired in glowing yellow shades,
Before the Sun drops his curtain,
Embrace me with your golden wings.! "
The cat is fascinated!
Stares in wonderment,
Still and silent,
With amazing rounded eyes,
With golden brown hair,
At a pretty butterfly
A rare black and white combination with
An ochre yellow border,
so elegantly shaped,
So artistically decorated,
Searching for a flower
In the grassy bower!
The cat watches in a trance!
The cat debates: "Should she pounce on the butterfly?
Or just chase her around for fun!
Or Should she quietly watch its enchanting movements
Sucking the honey from the flowers? Indeed!
Sensational play of nature's allurement! "
I wonder! Who is more fascinating?
The butterfly or the cat?
I am at a loss! For I love them both!
They are both fabulous creations of God!
Amazing lives that gladdens your heart,
Attractive beings of this beautiful planet!
BUTTERFLY
As born with Spring, with roses born away,
Breasting breeze’s wing to swing on high,
Upon bright buds’ breasts balanced, trembling play,
To drink and drown in perfume, light and sky.
To dust wings’ powder while still young and spry;
Earth flee, fly like a sigh the Milky Way, -
Rare fate, enchanted, of the Butterfly!
Fli[r]t, restless, like Desire, by night and day,
Loving all things, who none may satisfy,
Yearn ecstasy? - then seek in Heaven, .... good-bye!
Acrostic A BUTTERFLY
19 August 1991
Acrostic Translation Alphonse de LAMARTINE – Le Papillon
robi03_0449_lama01_0001
IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII
PAPILLON
Naître avec le printemps, mourir avec les roses,
Sur l’aile du zéphyr nager dans un ciel pur;
Balancé sur le sein des fleurs à peine écloses,
S’enivrer de parfums, de lumière et d’azur;
Secouant, jeune encor, la poudre de ses ailes,
S’envoler comme un souffle aux voûtes éternelles;
Voilà du papillon le destin enchanté:
Il ressemble au désir, qui jamais ne se pose,
Et sans se satisfaire, effleurant toute chose,
Retourne enfin au ciel chercher la volupté.
Extrait de “Méditations” Alphonse de Lamartine 1790_1869
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I met someone somewhere out there
One angel, with eyes that dare
I saw him sent from the sky
Oh, he’s an angel, an angel of a butterfly
Dark angel, cricket angel, my only angel
You had no idea what is heaven and what is hell
Gazing into your blue eyes when we first met
Wow, I knew then, you were a heaven sent
Dark angel, you are a white angel
You lighted my path when dark days prevail
Now I know, you didn’t walk away
Stay with me, is all I pray
Dark angel, oh my angel
Cover me, fly beside me
I love you, I need you with me
All I wanted is only you and me
I  love you
-your butterfly angel-
butterfly, butterfly
fly in the sky
butterfly, butterfly
flies so high
butterfly, butterfly
lands on my thigh
butterfly, butterfly
motionlessly lies
butterfly, butterfly
gracefully dies
Butterfly, Butterfly
flew so high.
Butterfly, Butterfly
caught my eye.
Eyes were a glisten,
wings winked in delight.
Sought such a current
so as he could drift
in warm summer's night.
But as the days shorten
he sags in the air.
Gracefully curves
downwards,
until he lies
motionless
so calm and fair.
Hoping to catch your eye
Circling around you, oh my
Butterfly, butterfly, come into the light
Oh, what a beautiful sight
Flying so gracefully
Into the sky, the butterfly
Trying to catch a butterfly
Fly, fly, fly, butterfly
There he sets upon the mums
I'm having so much fun
Here's another on the sill
Your standing so still
You go to touch him
There he goes, the butterfly
I hear a tapping on the window
It's the butterfly, fly, fly, fly
There he goes into the sky
Flying so high, the butterfly
I'll see you another day
Butterfly, butterfly, away
hormonal soup
pulsing, congealing;
chrysalis carapace
throbbing, cracking;
unknown muscles
struggling, jerking
through paper jaws...
exhausted, immobile,
transformed, transfigured -
let me dry my wings.
She stood crookedly at the desk
on that first day.
‘I’m Jasmine.’
(Surely Kate or Jane would have suited her better)
Forty-something and heavy,
with a body
that had rarely moved,
and a sad pigtail
that hung down her back
like Eeyore’s tail.
I wondered how she’d go -
If she’d turn up again
next week.
And was pleasantly surprised
when she did.
Even more so
as the weeks
turned into months -
and the butterfly
that had been for so long
cramped in its lumpy chrysalis,
began to emerge.
Seems she’s doing something else
on Tuesday nights now.
Pity.
The dreams
of my heart
my mind
doth pass
In my dream
of butterflys
for they
hug me
without
sound
Nothing stays
with me to long
In my dream of
butterflys
they lift me
from this ground
But I have
had from
since as a
child
In my dream
of butterflys
they so still
my mind
The deep solace
of song
In my dream
of butterflys
they flutter for they
are posied
In my dream
of butterflys
my daughter
now is four
In my dream of
butterflys
such delight
to my eyes
forever
may roam
Let me find life
and stay
In my dream of
butterflys
Soft weaved wings
they always have
of which we sing
With wings whoms
tunes
are played
out and not
forgotten
In my dream of
butterflys
linen in does
my neice now
lay
Like the rain
of yesterday
rainbow weaved
it is
thus so
In my dream of
butterflys
heavens light
doth shine
so true
In my dream of
butterflys
no cut
nor sting
for all
will sing
for the
beauty with
out flowers
no dream
Oh to be a butterfly and flutter my wings by your check
To have you admire me as I glide by your beautiful smile
To land upon your shoulder and watch you breathe
Oh to hear your voice sweetly recite
as you versed with magic tones
I would fly within your view
And from your sweet, sweet lips you would say,
Beautiful butterfly how I wish this night  you were real
So I could hold you in my arms and love you always
Then the words would spin
My wings caught up in the twirl
And before your eyes…
I would be in human form
in your arms, forever more
The dreams of my heart
my mind doth pass
In my dream of butterflys
for they hug me
without sound
Nothing stays with me to long
In my dream of butterflys
they lift me from this ground
But I have had from
since as a child
In my dream of butterflys
they so still my mind
The deep solace of song
In my dream of butterflys
they flutter for there posied.
In my dream of butterflys
my daughter now is four
If that should ever leave me
In my dream of butterflys
such delight my eyes
forever roam
Let me find life and stay
In my dream of butterflys
soft weaved wings
they always have
With wings whose tunes
are played out and not
forgotten
In my dream of butterflys
linen is does my neice now lay.
Like the rain of yesterday
rainbow weaved it is
thus so
In my dream of butterflys
heavens light doth shine
so true.
In my dream of butterflys
no cut nor sting
for all will sing
for the beauty with
out flowers no dream.
I strongly believe
With all my heart
That everything happens
For a reason.
One can hardly
Take a breath
Without some form of
Consequence,
Whether good or bad,
Even if you
Are not the one
To experience it.
Butterfly Effect
My very birth sent forth a tremor
through the earth and heavens,
that unique frisson caused a stir
across the whole universe,
In the mosaic stretching
from the north-pole to the south-pole
it keeps engraved the perpetual hallmark
with great grace,
In the seamless muslin of the blowing
air tier by tier
is laced precisely the adroit tapestry
of that solitary resonance,
It's trace is held with the fragrance
emanating from the florescence of time,
All over the ever-expanding space
its blooming buds are strewn
delineated with the streaks of lightning,
In all the organisms of the ocean
and every fold of the brine
the exact graphic grandeur of its culmination
is drawn exquisitely with subtle touch.
Once just the first breath of mine
growing into a turbulent typhoon
swept across the wide continent
with its boisterous billow...
But today how do you show
such sardonic bravado to deny me
in immense ignorance,
Want to flout my abiding impulse
in a sheer negligence
as the trivial flutter of a trifling butterfly?
Without my hues the azure
would not have grown so cerulean
or the fauna verdant as much-
Despite knowing all these
should you have the audacity
to negate my distinct contributions
in the vibrant soiree of this colorful world,
shall I understand,
you want the drab and dreary wilderness
to reign over the entire creation.
Look, Have I not been here,
the visage of this vast landscape
kissing the sky-line
have never turned out to be as such,
in no way.
Who knows not that my arrival
has totally changed the panorama
of the operations of nature time and again?
But for my emergence,
the propelling tempo of the world
would have fallen into a stupor
and the wheel of eternity
would have come to a grinding halt.
The butterfly was young
Her vibrant wings of delicate lace
Such grace such poise
A hcarming butterfly
The cricket was slick thicket
Moving quick but swift
Yet smart somewhat wise
Proud of his chirp
Hopping through the grass
Butterfly fluttered by till upon a rose
Spreading her wings a dainty show
Slowly sipping sweet
Hopping skipping
Cricket saw
Butterfly glanced
The cricket saw butterfly
The butterfly looked yonder
Cricket hopped and chirped
A jumpety crickety song
Butterfly sighed
And rolled her eyes
Cricket hopped closer
Butterfly laughed
Silly cricket trying hard
Butterfly cared less
Poor cricket hopped and hopped
Butterfly sipping nectar sweet
Cricket sang sonfter sweeter
Butterfly stopped
A song so sweet
Too lovely than nectar
Cricket hopped upon a rose
Butterfly jumped
Almost to fly away
Cricket song too lovely to fly away
Butterfly in a trance
Fluttering her wings lovely
Too charming
Too tempting
Crickect sang
Butterfly in a spell
Too late to break
Lovers forever
Strange couple though
Yet lovely
Yet happy
Suave cricket, Princess Butterfly
Flutterby, flutterby.......
The little wings,
Bearing the colors,
Moving around the flower,
Charming her,
Kissing the petals,
Taking all the honeys,
Again forget her,
Leave her alone,
Take shelter of another,
Again making love,
The consequences are same,
May be he is the beauty,
But he is the fortune hunter,
The little butterfly...
Butterfly, Butterfly; so awsome and free, spread your wings and fly to me, ever so gracefull and full of love, you shine like the sun above, Butterfly, Butterly, so awsome and free
, I wishfor the true love you, d bring me to see, Butterfly, Butterfly, so full of color and chear, when I see you, I feel you so near, Butterfly, Butterfly, you lighten my day, and hope in my life you will stay.................
There’s one thing I know,
That I hold close to me
My dreams are drifting
Off and onto the sea
I stand at the shore
The cool wind in my hair
And I remember one spring
You were here then
I felt your butterfly kisses
Shining over me
My butterfly kisses mean so much to me
I promise that I
Shall never let go.
My butterfly kisses
I love you so.
The waves crash on the rocks
The white twirling waves
You hold me so close
So I never stray
So close to the edge,
And I hold on tight
Knowing you’re my anchor
My anchor
On this cold spring night
I felt your butterfly kisses
Shining over me
My butterfly kisses mean so much to me
I promise that I
Shall never let go.
My butterfly kisses
I love you so.
Oh my butterfly kisses
On the cold stormy nights
Oh my butterfly kisses
Feel like home
You’re butterfly kisses
Warm me to the core
And our butterfly kisses will last
On and on
No matter if the world may stop
No matter if I’m in L.A or
Somewhere you can’t reach me
Remember, my darling
I will always love your
Butterfly kisses
In the middle of our porridge plates
There was a blue butterfly painted
And each morning we tried who should reach the
butterfly first.
Then the Grandmother said:  "Do not eat the poor
butterfly."
That made us laugh.
Always she said it and always it started us laughing.
It seemed such a sweet little joke.
I was certain that one fine morning
The butterfly would fly out of our plates,
Laughing the teeniest laugh in the world,
And perch on the Grandmother's lap.
Butterflies flitter about, some fly by rapidly, and others seem to just float past your eye.  I often wonder at their beauty of flight and feel quite envious that I cannot do the same.  Life I suppose can be a little like that; sometimes events go by rapidly, while others, they seem to meander up and down flying slowly through our minds.  It is the rapidly moving ones that irritate me; most events come and go so quickly.  You look forward to something for months and when it eventually arrives it is over in a tick of the clock.  Leaves you sometimes to wonder why it happened and why you looked forward to it so much.  The slower events in time, which are really the ones we experience everyday can be so beautiful and thought provoking, that they last for a longer period of time.  Then we have the earth shattering events that come like the butterfly you have never seen in your garden before that grabs your interest.  These can grip you so strongly, that eventually it dawns on you that this is something worthwhile pursuing.  The idea grows and grows, before you know it, you are on a different path in life, which is hopefully leading you to a better one.  This can be very exciting and fulfilling.  It is the same as when all those years ago, a lady showed my wife and I a paradise flycatcher; we have been bird watching ever since.
It is amazing how we quietly go about our affairs from day to day, and the time slips by quickly month-by-month, then year-by-year, before we know it, we are nearly at the end of our time.  We look back and wonder how we really got, to this moment in time, without an honest thought, to what we are actually doing, with this wonderful life we have been given.  Surely it is better to stop and think about our life now, take notice of what is actually going on, what we are doing, how we think, and where we are actually going.  I don’t know, but it seems so logical, to have a thought or sight which is so inspiring, it makes us change our attitude, our life.  After all we only have one life that we know of, having a second one would be wonderful, but surely it is better to enjoy this one now, than hope for another one that could be better.  We are good at making our own hell on earth, surely it is better to enjoy the world for the heaven that it is.
A butterfly’s life is so short, I wonder if the ones that fly fast have as good a time as the ones that float slowly past our eyes.  The slower ones would certainly see more than the fast ones.  More flowers and their nectar are spotted.  They can stop more often to enjoy life’s garden, it makes sense to be slower I suppose.  Less haste more speed they say, I believe less speed then more understanding comes.  Take your time you’ll find it will last longer and mean more.  A very useful exercise is the one that makes you slow down to a rest in order to experience the present.
When we take time to listen to our own true self, life-changing miracles can happen.  We are so busy listening to our own thoughts about the past and future that we miss the joy that is present now.  We have beauty all around us, why not stop, and see, how happy you can be.
Butterflies cannot think so they are always in the present.  This means they have no thoughts of past or future, to spoil their lives.  Yet I expect it would be nice if they could think and talk.  They are so beautiful to see, I am sure their thoughts will be just as beautiful.  “What did you see today butterfly”?  “I noticed a beautiful bird drinking from my flower; it was so pretty that I forgot it was supposed to be mine”.  This made me think that the bird, the flower, and everything else in this wonderful world are here for us all to enjoy.  It’s a pity we as people cannot see this.  We do not share amongst ourselves, never mind the other inhabitants of the planet!
Butterflies are real; they have beauty with a purpose, to help provide for other lives.  Butterflies are also quiet; they do not make a noise, so why do we notice them?  Their colour draws our attention to them.  They announce their presence by simply being here, and because of their beauty we notice them.  A tiny seed grows into an exquisite flower, quietly without noise, when it blooms, no trumpet call to announce its presence; once again it is its beauty, which makes us take note.
This is true of all of nature’s remarkable surprises.  If we remain silent like a butterfly or seed, amazing things will also happen to us.  Also by being quiet, we will be able to listen for and not miss, the opportunities life gives us.  It is in this silence, this Golden Silence; we will realise that our constant thoughts of past and present just, confuse our view of life.  A Butterflies life from birth to death
is programmed, it has sight so it can see the way, but it lives unselfishly spreading pollen the seed of love, to germinate the other flowers.  By doing this it ensures a food source for other butterflies and creatures.  Provisions for the future lives to come, ensures food source continues.   Surely we can learn from such intelligent banking?   Butterflies are clever!
Butterflies you might say do not have a choice; they have only one way of life.  This is true, but their impact on our world though small, is wanted.  However we have many, many, choices, but it is how and what we choose, that determines what our worth will be.
By choosing right, your role in life becomes worthwhile, your help is needed, your love respected, and your effect upon our world is like a butterflies visit to many flowers, it’s good.
By choosing wrong, you do harm, damage self, harm others, you give no love, and your effect upon our world is bad.   A lone Butterflies visit to just one flower has more worth than you.
Surely it is better to be like a butterfly, spreading love, sharing happiness, giving life, sharing beauty, and giving lessons on how to lead a happy life.
Sitting here, writing down,
words that come to me,
I wonder why, they come to me.
They should be here for all to see.
Butterfly moon of a flightless dawn.
Marching softly with a rhythm gone.
Angels coming in a darkened morn.
Demons ascending in a vertical form.
Found again from a wanton wish.
Lost eternity in a broken kiss.
Seas of destruction branding my mind.
Pounding relentlessly as the clock unwinds.
The way and beyond from a fluttered wing.
Dancing joyously as my soul sings.
Breathing again from a wound once clean.
Broken strength begs for thought unseen.
Deception expired as dreams ring clear.
Awareness dawns as the butterfly moon nears.
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
Quill me in heart and I'll lose my breath,
Pen me in soul and I'm heaven-bound,
Dip me in ink and I'll revel in you
Til stars
Fall
In stellar rain
Butterfly; butterfly fly away,
teach me how to be as free as free can be.
Butterfly; butterfly I see you there,
its beautiful the way your wings caress the air.
Butterfly; butterfly go as high as you can go,
show me the things that I don't yet know.
Butterfly; butterfly fly into the sky,
dropp down and land yourself by my side.
Butterfly; butterfly I see you kiss a flower,
my eyes fill and I begin to ponder.
Butterfly; butterfly your beauty soars,
I see the beauty in you and I see the beauty within me.
Butterfly; butterfly show me the way,
For beauty is beautiful but there's more to me.
Butterfly; butterfly show yourself,
I see your colors and I see your shimmer, is there anything else?
Butterfly; butterfly what is the matter?
can't you give me an answer for the questions I desire?
Butterfly; butterfly I see you dying,
life is far too short to sit around crying.
Butterfly; butterfly don't you go,
for your goal has not yet been accomplished.
Butterfly; butterfly let me lift you,
I peer into your eyes and see that there's a secret inside.
Butterfly; butterfly let it out,
your secret could hold great things, give me the secret to life.
Butterfly; butterfly let me know,
before you take your last breath; show me what you hold.
Butterfly; butterfly there you go...
You twitch away letting me that the secret to life is having the courage...
to just let go.
A butterfly can fly away,
A butterfly can be a kiss,
A butterfly can be such a gaze,
A butterfly can die just like that.
That's what happened to you.
God took you,
Turned you into a butterfly,
And you flew away.
Dedicated to Civanna Carlene Christian.
Ur My Butterfly Princess,
Rest in peace.
By: Kelsey Barnett
there in the sky you see a butterfly
fly little one fly
if is beautiful with a purple and black color
would you do me a favor
bring me my butterfly into my heart
I want to make it into art
I don't think god think's butterflys are bad
if he did then thats sad
I wish that they did not have sixs dots
I like them lots
I hate hannha monntana she give's butterflys a bad name
she's not the same
butterfly might tell your future in your life
maybe become husband and wife
butterfly is beautiful I wish it had eight dots
very lots
Butterfly, the wind blows sea-ward,
strong beyond the garden-wall!
Butterfly, why do you settle on my
shoe, and sip the dirt on my shoe,
Lifting your veined wings, lifting them?
big white butterfly!
Already it is October, and the wind
blows strong to the sea
from the hills where snow must have
fallen, the wind is polished with
snow.
Here in the garden, with red
geraniums, it is warm, it is warm
but the wind blows strong to sea-ward,
white butterfly, content on my shoe!
Will you go, will you go from my warm
house?
Will you climb on your big soft wings,
black-dotted,
as up an invisible rainbow, an arch
till the wind slides you sheer from the
arch-crest
and in a strange level fluttering you go
out to sea-ward, white speck!
Anonymous submission.
Flying high, being a butterfly
sings aloud in deep forests
let me drink the nector to my full
seems which is made just for me!
When I open my Rainbow wings
smiles, feeling elated
heights of that high sky
its that, Now I want to touch! !
~~5/5/08~~
This is the literal translation of my 'Titali'.. for the ones who cannot understand hindi.
Nobody knows this little butterfly,
who wanders and roams
who seeks for the senses of love,
Nobody knows her, so tender so pure,
little butterfly, her colors are baby pastels
like new souls and holy spirits of bliss.
Every petal touched by her caterpillars
become an essences to the touch, her
ultraviolet sight that only she can posses,
The wonder of her unique little body and
sense, nobody knows her, nobody
sees the beauty in her.
Only the blissful only the lovers
of love, nobody knows her,
nobody sees her, because those who see
are blind to her colors and soul,
I am a butterfly
Feel like a butterfly; mostly
half finished
still clinging to the
umbilical cord of the Palette
replaced
before drying
Flippy flip butterfly
Merry merry
As you fly
Merry merry butterfly
Over bright roses and daisies
As you drink your share and fly
Every dropp you do enjoy
Merry merry butterfly
The breath of dead man winter’s
Swirling vapors of the frozen -
Forging dendrites in the splinters,
Bringing rains, the rivers run.
Along those swollen banks we stroll,
To take account of winter’s toll -
Eviscerated, but his ghostly grip still lingers
In the frost that splits the soil.
Then amongst last season’s damage,
Rustling in decaying twigs,
Are little nests defying carnage,
Writhing in the planting sun.
And there I pause, to which they say,
‘let’s go, so what? ’
Because it’s all so annual,
So unspectacular -
‘But, ’ I argue, ‘that’s the reason
To enjoy this observation! ’
It’s a not-too-distant season
When these things will metamorphose -
Bursting from
Their bound-up selves
To migrate far away.
Breath of dead man winter’s faded -
Smelt of purpose as he’d fasted,
Now the milkweed’s in the sun -
And that caterpillar’s fatted, feasting -
‘Think I’ll stay, you run along.’
You're pathetically ugly,
thats what they all say.
As they frolic together,
in the summer and play.
And I'm all alone,
all by myself.
Here in my tree,
with nobody else.
But the jokes on them,
and soon they will see.
All of this beauty,
that lives inside me.
For my time will come,
and some day real soon.
When I step outside,
of my self woven room.
In my beautiful colors,
so pleasing to eyes.
Kaleidoscopical beauty alive in the sky...K
butterfly
I stopped to look at a butterfly-then it flew away.
Yet! -left me with an impression.
With me it will always stay.
Its wings were a beautiful brown-with polka dots you see.
I had wanted to grab it-but I knew it had to be free.
They only have a short life span
But in their life -they live an eternity.
They have no worries or cares-but in their life they share
All the joys of yesteryear…
If man could be as a butterfly-and enjoy and share life.
we would not have to go through, all our struggles and strife.
Went down to the garden
and see a Caterppilar
Crawling struggling on the earth
In reality she is a butterfly
Working out for her rebirth,
and after her rebirth,
She's going to fly.
She is going to shed
that heavy coat and bounded
chain and take on her new wings.
and fly high above the sky.
If we are a worm
covered with the dust,
trying hard to please
but afraid to fail
and feel like
having nailed.
Remember we are a butterfly inside.
and he is going to shed the coat
and his nailed had set us free.
If we hang in there
You'll see, we are a butterfly
we are going to shed the coat
and someday reach,
Reach for the sky.
6. January 2008
Butterfly
Will your wings curl up at the first sign of frost
Butterfly?
Will you hide away when the winter comes
Retreat into your  cocoon
Butterfly?
Will you come when spring dawns?
Will you pretend like you never left?
Butterfly
I want you to remain here with me
Forever
And don't let me be lonely
Don't let me be sad
Because if you must leave me
I'll never find another
Butterfly
You flap your wings in the breeze
Make me oh so happy
Please flap those wings for me
Please stay here with me
And when winter comes
I will keep your wings warm
Butterfly
Butterfly
Beautiful, Colourful, Graceful
Flies, Flutters, Dances, Sings, Lands
Purple, Blue, Green
Butterfly
Im homeless
As wonderer as dandelion
Lead me, butterfly!
Over the rainbow gate
Where my lover lives
Among roses
Waiting for me
when its lonesome
its alone
perhaps
i live in a cage
it was forced on me
by and by
it grew on me
i liked it
or not
encased
secure
but
caged
one day i chanced
upon life
metamorphosed
my cage
my case
in a shackle
no more my
anchor
i try
i cry
i moan
to breakfree
alone me
from lonliness.....................
A butterfly dances in my garden.
I don’t know its colour.
I don’t know its location.
I don’t know its name.
I know where it came from,
and she may look at me again,
just a glance and my butterfly
takes off once again.
Wearied by loneliness
And grasping at straws
In the tidal wave of emotions,
We agree to meet at the city zoo,
The butterfly room summer Sunday.
As she talks affectionately about the poetry of life
And points to all the colorful creatures,
I slightly touch her elbow
And tremble more excitedly
Than a younger man making love.
A tendril of her black hair,
Flirts with her shoulder,
And I fall into a dream
Where I push back her hair
And kiss her neck for eternity.
Does she have an inner awareness
About my intense but tender longing
When she smiles that winsome smile of innocence?
Does she know I want to caress her arms
In a garden of lilacs and roses?
I’m a melancholy romantic
And overwhelmingly frantic
To submerge my being
Into the feminine charm of her essence,
To linger forever with her
Like the sweet perfume on her delicate wrists.
Allow me
To push back your hair
And kiss the butterfly tattoo
On the nape of your neck
As we walk in the summer rain.
We may face death
By tomorrow dawn,
But today we have
Excited breaths
And yearnings
That cannot be suppressed.
If you fail to grasp love
In the heat of this moment,
Nothing will matter later
If you’re unhappy and alone.
I grow,
I struggle,
I am not nurtured,
Nor cared for,
I learn the harsh lessons,
Of Life,
Alone.
Then,
Satisfied in my growth,
Having learnt my lessons,
I gain maturity,
I am ready,
For change.
I build walls,
Around myself,
To protect,
This change,
For change I must.
I hang,
Waiting patiently,
Change must occur,
For what else is left?
I push now,
I am impatient,
I have waited,
Long enough,
It is time.
I’ll show this world,
That I can survive.
One side of me,
Is exposed to the world,
Then another,
Slowly at first,
For I do not wish to shock,
Only to dazzle.
Released am I,
Free,
Free to show myself,
In all my glory,
In all my splendor.
For I have changed,
I am now,
Who I’m meant to be,
I am finally me.
So, fear not change,
It comes naturally,
Be brave,
Learn well,
And when,
The time comes,
Be free.
A butterfly flew to my window pane
Beautifully black spotted and big
I could see it through the glass
It was not aware of my presence
As the Glass was tinted in black
Took some shots and done a video
Of my guest on the Window pane
Still stationing there for long
Then on a sudden it was gone
Into the vast chest of nature
Blessed and Beautiful are they
Though their lives are short
Am excited about my Guest
On my black window pane
Charmed by it's beautifully
Spread and decorated wings
God must have sent it to me
Like an angel from the heaven
To give some solace from
Otherwise, a tension full life.
© Sasidharan T. Vellat
Butterfly wings.
Dancing, shimmering lights.
They are the northern lights
of the south during the day.
Beautiful lime green.
Flash and flutter.
Dancing upon the walls.
Making such a clutter.
Those butterfly wings.
A light periwinkle blue.
As blue as the ocean.
Mysterious as the moon.
Reminds  me of that sky, full of clouds.
Those butterfly wings.
A deep blood red.
So vibrant and full of life.
A deep, swirling crimson.
So loyal and true.
Those butterfly wings.
A sparkling sunny yellow.
So bright and cheerful.
Almost like a lighter gold.
So friendly and caring.
Those butterfly wings.
Those wings hold character.
Opposites they hold as well as mystery.
So dark but light and sure.
Are those butterfly wings.
Butterfly, flutterby
Come to me
Take me to Mexico
On your delicate wing.
Butterfly, flutterby
It is early fall
I want to escape from here
To you I call.
Butterfly, flutterby
Be with me tonight
I’ll be ready in a minute
Ready for take-off; ready for flight.
Butterfly, flutterby
How gorgeous your face
Yellow, black, stained-glass wings
I see your mysterious smile and dainty grace.
Butterfly, flutterby
I’m waiting; I’ll stay
Please don’t forget me
But look! Now you’re going, going, gone, away.
Butterfly, flutterby
How can this be?
You said good bye
Now what about me?
Butterfly, flutterby
You could have come to me
Could have taken me to Mexico
On your delicate wing.
Butterfly, flutterby
This is not the end
Return for me next year
I will be waiting and watching, again and again.
Vulnerable, soft and fragile
Delicate to the touch
Dodging, ducking, evading
Every attempt to clutch
Indian lore has told me
A butterfly can grant a wish
But first it must be captured
And my desire whispered to it
For the whisper to be granted
The butterfly must be set free
A difficult choice I ponder
Will my butterfly come back me?
Perhaps it had arrived undercover
between the rich dark green leaves
of the organic cabbage which from
the huge holes in its tough outer leaves
had brought it up so lively – perhaps
reared in some protected warmth, mimicking
the months when ‘ small cabbage whites’
are supposed to live – July to September.
Or had it flown in or been shipped in
from some warmer clime?
Christmas Day – was that the kitchen ceiling light
about to go? No, it was a butterfly,
frantically circling round and round
the low-energy bulb, not hot enough
to make an Icarus of its daring; always
clockwise round the bulb, I thought;
palest green to grey to white; frenzied; delicate..
At night, the light switched off, it rested somewhere;
then at evening, resumed its mad dance,
ceaseless lover, love unconsummated…
paid no attention to its cabbage home
there in the vegetable rack; only the light, the light…
Butterflies do not hear; it did not heed
my cries increasing in despair –
nothing like a  butterfly net to hand;
I tried to bring it lower with a gentle spray
so that I could catch it; too wild its Maenad dance,
too high, too frenzied..
Two, three days passed; so much strength,
determination, endurance, in such a tiny thing;
no longer garden’s scourge; now a holy thing,
in which I saw myself; even wished to love;
we became of equal size, in the eyes of God…
as were we not always, from Creation’s birth?
The fourth morning, I caught it in a cut-glass tumbler
against the window pane – the open window
had not tempted it – myself now talking to its unhearing,
as I did my father on his way to death…
it settled in the glass, still moist inside
with orange juice; did you know,
butterflies taste with their feet…
they so quick to land and then take off…
such discrimination in those tiny feet,
that tiny brain, those tiny,
heroic muscles, devoted to its life and love…
It flew across the cold and winter garden
at such speed, I chose to see it joy or gratitude..
and then, was quiet for a time.
*
Tiny thing,
holy thing,
as near to God
as angel's wing.
Chuang Tzu in dream became a butterfly,
And the butterfly became Chuang Tzu at waking.
Which was the real—the butterfly or the man ?
Who can tell the end of the endless changes of things?
The water that flows into the depth of the distant sea
Returns anon to the shallows of a transparent stream.
The man, raising melons outside the green gate of the city,
Was once the Prince of the East Hill.
So must rank and riches vanish.
You know it, still you toil and toil,—what for?
Clap your wings
Butterfly, Butterfly
Clap your wings
Flutter by and fly
Your rainbow flower skin.
Strikes out glaringly beautiful in the sun
Whenever you take off the land and run
Your delicate beauty alone is breathtaking
Beautiful feelings inside of me keep awaking
When you clap your wings and fly
Butterfly sing with me
Beneath any tree
Clap your wings
Flap your wings
Flutter by and fly
Let's look up to the skies
Together on a lovely summer day
Before you decide to say goodbye!
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
730
Defrauded I a Butterfly—
The lawful Heir—for Thee—
The white butterfly
Hiding in petals
In the garden
Of roses
And magnolia
In her flight
Through
Open window
Came
To see
If
I was not blind
7/4/2009
354
From Cocoon forth a Butterfly
As Lady from her Door
Emerged—a Summer Afternoon—
Repairing Everywhere—
Without Design—that I could trace
Except to stray abroad
On Miscellaneous Enterprise
The Clovers—understood—
Her pretty Parasol be seen
Contracting in a Field
Where Men made Hay—
Then struggling hard
With an opposing Cloud—
Where Parties—Phantom as Herself—
To Nowhere—seemed to go
In purposeless Circumference—
As 'twere a Tropic Show—
And notwithstanding Bee—that worked—
And Flower—that zealous blew—
This Audience of Idleness
Disdained them, from the Sky—
Till Sundown crept—a steady Tide—
And Men that made the Hay—
And Afternoon—and Butterfly—
Extinguished—in the Sea—
I built my life with muddy bricks and a tin sheet for the roof,
My history teacher suggests the name; poverty
But it's weather-beaten knows everybody.
Am I heavy to carry on your soft wings?
If you prefer I could have join your pilgrimage
Leaving all my burdens aside
I was carrying since my childhood.
I see the outer world through my little window, nothing; but gloomy.
Only I hear the secret murmur of the souls.
Red ants on the window sill very busy and I heard a butterfly's crying.
Sweet, bide with me and let my love
Be an enduring tether;
Oh, wanton not from spot to spot,
But let us dwell together.
You've come each morn to sip the sweets
With which you found me dripping,
Yet never knew it was not dew
But tears that you were sipping.
You gambol over honey meads
Where siren bees are humming;
But mine the fate to watch and wait
For my beloved's coming.
The sunshine that delights you now
Shall fade to darkness gloomy;
You should not fear if, biding here,
You nestled closer to me.
So rest you, love, and be my love,
That my enraptured blooming
May fill your sight with tender light,
Your wings with sweet perfuming.
Or, if you will not bide with me
Upon this quiet heather,
Oh, give me wing, thou beauteous thing,
That we may soar together.
I captured a butterfly in a jar
I danced around in the grass for hours
Chasing it down stumbling falling laughing
Making the chase the most rewarding
I captured a butterfly in a jar
There it was for me to hold and keep forever
Anytime I wanted to relish in the joy of life
There it was for me to look upon
I captured a butterfly in a jar
Time eroded on and all things change
The butterfly became just another bug
Trapped in a glass cage
I captured a butterfly in a jar
And saw how sad it truly was
A prisoner and I the jailer
I had to let it go
I captured a butterfly in a jar
I opened that lid and allowed it to go
And it flew away far from me
It left me yearning for that summer day
I captured a butterfly in a jar
But maybe it captured me
Because ever since that butterfly flew away
I have never again felt free
If I were a butterfly
I would fly to your garden
Through smoky glasses
Watch with baleful inquisitive eyes
Till with an impatient sigh
You my fluttering presence spy....
If you would just open your window
I would my presence keep sweeping low
Find an inconspicuous corner
In your flower vase
imbibing with pleasure
memories to treasure
Your casual time of leisure...........
When you threw down  your car keys
and kicked off your shoes
All the tiredness let
Trickle off with water
Splashed with a gusto!
You relax
l too relax with  you..................
The poise and tranquility
that we as a pair
to this four walled confines bring
No man and woman can............
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Malinikadir
spring butterfly
that drunken dance
spring too much for you?
spring butterfly
the only time that matches up
to your colours
spring butterly
this party, such a colourful spread
i would too be drunken
spring butterfly
every colourful cup
a drink from heaven
I saw a butterfly
I saw him well
The tears were in his eyes
They burned like hell
He looked like just the strongest one in this world
but if you touched him he could die
This lovely butterfly who dreamed of life
As he spread his wings to fly beyond the skies
He wished the world would see him for who he is
A lovely butterfly, not an eagle
The butterfly I saw
I saw a butterfly today
Small and green with no wings
Crawlsing into shadows\hiding from a world who ignores it's subtle beauty
Afraid to never be noticed...appreciated
I saw a butterfly today
Camoflauged and shielded in self-made walls
Neglecting the world of it's gentle touch
Afraid to be met with a forceful hand
I saw a butterfly today
Wings new and fresh
Excited with exhileration
Facing a world with new courage
Knowing it can not be harmed
I saw a butterfly today
Blue and gold streaked the sky
embracing the sunlight's rays
Fluttering around my head
Carring my heart on her flight
I saw a butterfly today
I saw a beautiful butterfly in flight
And how it enlightened my life.
For one bright, fleeting instant,
I forgot about my problems and strife.
It hovered over the succulent vegetation
Until its wings began to spread,
And then it glided toward the bed of flowers
Of orange, pink, and red.
I thought how fragile this butterfly -
The same is true of life
which comes and goes so quickly
When we become entangled in wordly strife.
Take time to enjoy the offerings of nature,
Make the best of each emerging day,
For life lingers like the delicate butterfly,
It sort of silently flutters away.
Little butter fly
Fly up to the sky
Go into the clouds
hide away your wings
Once you where a catapiler
Ugly as can be
Now you fly on silver wings
In a clear blue sky
Fying down to greet a flower
land on a pretty petal
CHOMP!
Little butterfly becomes
lunch for the cat...
Hold it gently
let it fly
Beautiful little butterfly
squeeze it tightly
make it die
Poor little butterfly
06/1988
Love is like a butterfly
never here nor there
high or low
not really watching where to go.
A first love is like a butterfly
hatching out of a cocoon
we are amazed by the beauty
of this new feeling.
True love is like a butterfly
spreading its wings
and starting towards the sky
knowing that they want to have this forever.
Loosing love is like a butterfly
laying its eggs then flying away to die
leaving them in this big world all alone
knowing nothing familiar only home.
Wanting for love is like a butterfly
still as a caterpillar
wanting those wings
to be just like his friends.
Love is like a butterfly
Trying to spread its wing and fly
Love is like a butterfly
It can stay or it can die.
please rate or leave comments i do appretiate
i know, that you always asked about me...
and know that, to my talks you missed...
do you know..? ? ?
that you owned me..? ?
and waiting you with a thirst...
and miss your missing to me...
and my ear loving your whispers..
read me, ...
and write me, ...
as i am a white butterfly in your hands...
and draw me, ..
and give me a nicest colors..
which you have...
and in your heart hug me...
love you more, .. when you remembered me..
love you, even when you forgot me, ...
i forgot my soul, between your hands..
and come down to you, ..
to let me fly again from your hands...
Some time ago,
while on my run
I came to the old weir.
And, as I passed
a butterfly
flew up to greet me here.
She went around in circles then
and looked me over well,
I thought perhaps she just liked men,
that's when I almost fell.
I'd kept my eyes on her too much
and didn't see the rock of ages.
And so my bare foot's painful touch
now caused the mother of all rages.
But she stayed with me for a mile,
then daintily said her goodbye.
And I enjoyed her all the while:
She was a pretty butterfly.
One hundred days I met her daily,
each morning she seemed more delicious.
She'd always look a bit capricious
but fluttered happily and gaily.
One day she didn't keep our date,
at first I didn't worry.
Quite simply she just could be late
or p'haps had met a lorry.
I never found out what occurred
and still am sadly bent.
I wonder whether you had heard
what happened to my friend.
You are my butterfly
So graceful and beautiful
You are my loving butterfly
I'm so glad that I have you as my butterfly
I love you so much and that will never change
You are my butterfly
But not only are you my butterfly....
You are my special mother.
Thine emulous fond flowers are dead, too,
And the daft sun-assaulter, he
That frighted thee so oft, is fled or dead:
Save only me
(Nor is it sad to thee!)
Save only me
There is none left to mourn thee in the fields.
The gray grass is not dappled with the snow;
Its two banks have not shut upon the river;
But it is long ago-
It seems forever-
Since first I saw thee glance,
With all the dazzling other ones,
In airy dalliance,
Precipitate in love,
Tossed, tangled, whirled and whirled above,
Like a limp rose-wreath in a fairy dance.
When that was, the soft mist
Of my regret hung not on all the land,
And I was glad for thee,
And glad for me, I wist.
Thou didst not know, who tottered, wandering on high,
That fate had made thee for the pleasure of the wind,
With those great careless wings,
Nor yet did I.
And there were other things:
It seemed God let thee flutter from his gentle clasp:
Then fearful he had let thee win
Too far beyond him to be gathered in,
Snatched thee, o'er eager, with ungentle grasp.
Ah! I remember me
How once conspiracy was rife
Against my life-
The languor of it and the dreaming fond;
Surging, the grasses dizzied me of thought,
The breeze three odors brought,
And a gem-flower waved in a wand!
Then when I was distraught
And could not speak,
Sidelong, full on my cheek,
What should that reckless zephyr fling
But the wild touch of thy dye-dusty wing!
I found that wing broken to-day!
For thou are dead, I said,
And the strange birds say.
I found it with the withered leaves
Under the eaves.
Butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you hide in the shadows?
Spread wide your wings, let your heart sing
And come dance with me in the meadow
Butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you fear?
You'll never stray, I'll lead the way
Just follow the path, I'll be near
Butterfly, oh butterfly, have you no hope?
Drink of the sun, our life's just begun
Thro time's hills and valleys we'll lope
Butterfly, oh butterfly, dare you to dream?
On our hearts we depend, shall we follow the wind
And consign to the fates grander scheme?
Behold, how eager this our little boy
Is for a butterfly, as if all joy,
All profits, honours, yea, and lasting pleasures,
Were wrapped up in her, or the richest treasures
Found in her would be bundled up together,
When all her all is lighter than a feather.
He halloos, runs, and cries out, 'Here, boys, here!'
Nor doth he brambles or the nettles fear:
He stumbles at the molehills, up he gets,
And runs again, as one bereft of wits;
And all his labour and his large outcry
Is only for a silly butterfly.
Comparison
This little boy an emblem is of those
Whose hearts are wholly at the world's dispose.
The butterfly doth represent to me
The world's best things at best but fading be.
All are but painted nothings and false joys,
Like this poor butterfly to these our boys.
His running through nettles, thorns, and briers,
To gratify his boyish fond desires,
His tumbling over molehills to attain
His end, namely, his butterfly to gain,
Doth plainly show what hazards some men run
To get what will be lost as soon as won.
Once you touch a butterfly
it often, flustered, fails to flutter,
and cannot soar into the sky
without a sputter and may splutter,
because for butterflies the touch
of humans, friend or enemy,
can be calamitous, the clutch
of humankind’s hegemony.
When touching those whom we befriend,
no less than those whom we betroth,
we must take care lest we offend,
for, whether butterfly or moth,
the ones for whom we care may find
it hard to soar if we should brush
the dust, though trying to be kind,
from wings that, having touched, we crush.
8/3/00
One day I saw a sweet butterfly
Just as pretty as can be
My coal black tomcat, Sam
Was walking next to me
A beautiful summer day
I smiled and hummed a song
Enjoying this flitting butterfly
As Sam and I walked along
And suddenly, you’ll not believe
Without a single sound
Sam swiped his paw into the air
Knocking this butterfly to the ground!
541
Some such Butterfly be seen
On Brazilian Pampas—
Just at noon—no later—Sweet—
Then—the License closes—
Some such Spice—express and pass—
Subject to Your Plucking—
As the Stars—You knew last Night—
Foreigners—This Morning—
Long, long ago,
There was a tale of a blue butterfly,
That live in a silvery cage,
Up at the cold attic,
Silhouetted against the wall,
Surrounded by eerie silent,
Lost in the unknown time.
It flapped its wings hopelessly,
Around the dusty cage,
Its magnificent colour getting paler and fader,
Under the screened window,
And its spirit slipped away,
Inch by inch into the thin air.
But I do not know,
The ending of this tale,
And only the blue butterfly,
And HE who know it to the very end.
UPON a garden's perfum'd bed
With various gaudy colours spread,
Beneath the shelter of a ROSE
A BUTTERFLY had sought repose;
Faint, with the sultry beams of day,
Supine the beauteous insect lay.
A BEE, impatient to devour
The nectar sweets of ev'ry flow'r,
Returning to her golden store,
A weight of fragrant treasure bore;
With envious eye, she mark'd the shade,
Where the poor BUTTERFLY was laid,
And resting on the bending spray,
Thus murmur'd forth her drony lay:­
"Thou empty thing, whose merit lies
In the vain boast of orient dies;
Whose glittering form the slightest breath
Robs of its gloss, and fades to death;
Who idly rov'st the summer day,
Flutt'ring a transient life away,
Unmindful of the chilling hour,
The nipping frost, the drenching show'r;
Who heedless of "to-morrow's fare,"
Mak'st present bliss thy only care;
Is it for THEE, the damask ROSE
With such transcendent lustre glows?
Is it for such a giddy thing
Nature unveils the blushing spring?
Hence, from thy lurking place, and know,
'Tis not for THEE her beauties glow."
The BUTTERFLY, with decent pride,
In gentle accents, thus reply'd:
"'Tis true, I flutter life away
In pastime, innocent and gay;
The SUN that decks the blushing spring
Gives lustre to my painted wing;
'Tis NATURE bids each colour vie,
With rainbow tints of varying die;
I boast no skill, no subtle pow'r
To steal the balm from ev'ry flow'r;
The ROSE, that only shelter'd ME,
Has pour'd a load of sweets on THEE;
Of merit we have both our share,
Heav'n gave thee ART, and made me FAIR;
And tho' thy cunning can despise
The humble worth of harmless flies;
Remember, envious, busy thing,
Thy honey'd form conceals a sting;
Enjoy thy garden, while I rove
The sunny hill, the woodbine grove,
And far remov'd from care and THEE,
Embrace my humble destiny;
While in some lone sequester'd bow'r,
I'll live content beyond thy pow'r;
For where ILL-NATURE holds her reign
TASTE, WORTH, and BEAUTY, plead in vain;
E'en GENIUS must to PRIDE submit
When ENVY wings the shaft of WIT.
The Butterfly and the Lark (Shakespearan Sonnet)
Much like a painted picture taken flight,
With wings wearing yellows, pinks and blues,
A butterfly on Flora did alight,
His thirst to satiate with nect'rous juice.
Admiring him, upon a nearby tree,
Behind the foliage-screen a lark did hide.
The former froze with fear when, suddenly,
The ominous bird with oggling eyes he spied.
'Too small a prey I am; do pity me'
He begged.  Then came a song-like sweet reply:
'Feast enough for me has been your beauty;
I've had my fill; for food no need have I.
But, whilst I sing, will you not display
Your glorious hues in all their bright array?
when you swat a fly
another glacier crumbles
to the bottom of the sea
another cruise ship sinks
when you slap a servant
another economic system in Europe collapses
millions will be jobless
when you abort an innocent fetus
another unknown virus plagues
with no known cure
in China, Africa and India
but if you are kind and compassionate
to the ant carrying a morsel of bread
global warming becomes another myth
there will be sufficient rice and wheat
there will be so much food to eat.
As love falls down from the sky,
It lands on the wings of a butterfly.
The butterfly sings it's songs and rhymes,
And flies through the air, No concept of time.
It is the messenger of patience and change,
From flower to flower, it's odd and it's strange.
The butterfly can transform it's world.
And give way to new beginnings, unfurled,
It is the keeper of transformation,
And flies on faith and imagination.
The butterfly as no fear of change,
It bravely escapes it's homemade cage.
To change, it knows is necessary,
For all the burdens we need not carry.
The butterfly soars, and merrily sings,
For, without change, it could never grow wings.
The butterfly from flower to flower
The urchin chas’d; and, when at last
He caught it in my lady’s bower,
He cried, “Ha, ha!” and held it fast.
Awhile he laugh’d, but soon he wept,
When looking at the prize he’d caught
He found he had to ruin swept
The very glory he had sought
Look, a butterfly. Did you make a wish?
You don't wish on butterflies.
You do so. Did you make one?
Yes.
It doesn't count.
there was once a beautiful butterfly,
it would flutter its perfectly patterned,
wings high in the blue open sky.
every other butterfly would cry out,
'how pretty you are'
and even from afar only he was seen,
delicately dancing in the breeze.
yet this poor butterfly was not at ease.
it was lonely for its beauty isolated it,
alone it would fly alone it would cry,
butterfly tears dropping down upon,
the jealous land below.
even with its beauty,
it was not happy,
and craved to return to its original self,
a catterpillar, anomonoyous and free
from natures vanity.
and so one day it flew away from
its little leaf,
to find the forest queen,
and enable its dream of exceptance
come true.
after many miles of blue sky,
the butterfly came to the forests queen tree,
after hearing the butterfly's plea,
the queen grantted its anomonity,
and the butterfly was free,
for it was now a catterpillar,
and as it crawled away,
slowly,
a beetle said hello,
and a ant said hello,
and the catterpillar cried
catterplillar tears of happiness.
There was never a Queen like Balkis,
From here to the wide world's end;
But Balkis talked to a butterfly
As you would talk to a friend.
There was never a King like Solomon
Not since the world began;
But Solomon talked to a butterfly
As a man would talk to a man.
She was Queen of Sabea--
And he was Asia's Lord--
But they both of 'em talked to butterflies
When they took their walks abroad!
The dawn is smiling on the dew that covers
The tearful roses; lo, the little lovers
That kiss the buds, and all the flutterings
In jasmine bloom, and privet, of white wings,
That go and come, and fly, and peep and hide,
With muffled music, murmured far and wide.
Ah, the Spring time, when we think of all the lays
That dreamy lovers send to dreamy mays,
Of the fond hearts within a billet bound,
Of all the soft silk paper that pens wound,
The messages of love that mortals write
Filled with intoxication of delight,
Written in April and before the May time
Shredded and flown, playthings for the wind's playtime,
We dream that all white butterflies above,
Who seek through clouds or waters souls to love,
And leave their lady mistress in despair,
To flit to flowers, as kinder and more fair,
Are but torn love-letters, that through the skies
Flutter, and float, and change to butterflies
I'VE watched you now a full half-hour,
Self-poised upon that yellow flower;
And, little Butterfly! indeed
I know not if you sleep or feed.
How motionless!---not frozen seas
More motionless! and then
What joy awaits you, when the breeze
Hath found you out among the trees,
And calls you forth again !
This plot of orchard-ground is ours;
My trees they are, my Sister's flowers;
Here rest your wing when they are weary;
Here lodge as in a sanctuary!
Come often to us, fear no wrong;
Sit near us on the bough!
We'll talk of sunshine and of song,
And summer days, when we were young;
Sweet childish days, that were as long
As twenty days are now.
STAY near me---do not take thy flight!
A little longer stay in sight!
Much converse do I find I thee,
Historian of my infancy !
Float near me; do not yet depart!
Dead times revive in thee:
Thou bring'st, gay creature as thou art!
A solemn image to my heart,
My father's family!
Oh! pleasant, pleasant were the days,
The time, when, in our childish plays,
My sister Emmeline and I
Together chased the butterfly!
A very hunter did I rush
Upon the prey:---with leaps and spring
I followed on from brake to bush;
But she, God love her, feared to brush
The dust from off its wings.
682
'Twould ease—a Butterfly—
Elate—a Bee—
Thou'rt neither—
Neither—thy capacity—
But, Blossom, were I,
I would rather be
Thy moment
Than a Bee's Eternity—
Content of fading
Is enough for me—
Fade I unto Divinity—
And Dying—Lifetime—
Ample as the Eye—
Her least attention raise on me—
I think I was on a balcony
overlooking the whole thing.
--Yusef Komunyakaa
"April Fool's Day"
No soon, no hard loan, no geometric woodwork
to make you feel at home. No soap, no anonymous
bourbon, no portrait or copy of a portrait painted
by some writer or star or family member or any
other-than-artist person. No short drop
(you were fifteen floors up), no secret way
out, no voice of self-hatred (which you are at least
used to). No past tense. Sometimes no tense at all.
Sometimes not even an all or nothing. Sometimes
not even a real estate dream, not even a frame,
not even a framework. A balcony but not a back
kitchen porch. A woman hanging out her laundry
but not hanging out. Railroad tracks and motor-
cycle gang around the corner but not a ticket
or a destination. Not even the sense of a weird
dead end. Not a lemon or a sun. No children.
No stories about children, no crooked arrow.
No ghost named Leslie or Vallejo. No C. No M.
No J.
Fair Child of Sun and Summer! we behold
With eager eyes thy wings bedropp'd with gold;
The purple spots that o'er thy mantle spread,
The sapphire's lively blue, the ruby's red,
Ten thousand various blended tints surprise,
Beyond the rainbow's hues or peacock's eyes:
Not Judah's king in eastern pomp array'd,
Whose charms allur'd from far the Sheban maid,
High on his glitt'ring throne, like you could shine
(Nature's completest miniature divine):
For thee the rose her balmy buds renews,
And silver lillies fill their cups with dews;
Flora for thee the laughing fields perfumes,
For thee Pomona sheds her choicest blooms,
Soft Zephyr wafts thee on his gentlest gales
O'er Hackwood's sunny hill and verdant vales;
For thee, gay queen of insects! do we rove
From walk to walk, from beauteous grove to grove;
And let the critics know, whose pedant pride
And awkward jests our sprightly sport deride:
That all who honours, fame, or wealth pursue,
Change but the name of things--they hunt for you.
Will you even notice when I'm gone?
The space no longer occupied by me
My existence fragments of a broken memory within your mind
And my hunger for you will go unfed
I am no longer there
I am a trapped butterfly that has broken free
And yet wherever I go, you are haunting me
I am damaged: my wings have been broken
You are crushing the butterfly that has been given to you
However loud I scream, you don't hear me
You have turned your back
When I am no longer here, you will mourn your love for me
Or will you even notice I'm gone?
The stars
finding it hard
to keep their eyes
open.
Moon
tucked up
in a comfortable cloud
already fast
asleep
turns & smiles.
Even the dark
is nodding off
dreaming of
...light
Even the cricket
has gone
asleep
even the fire
sleeps
in a nightdress
of ashes
all this
dreamy night.
Only the baby
(our little sweetie)
lies awake
playing with
the bright butterfly
dancing in her
dress of brilliant colour
bobbing
on the string
before her.
She tells the butterfly
delightedly
over & over
that she is
beauty
but the butterfly
doesn’t understand
the language of gurgle.
Somewhere
in the dark
Da da
snores
Ma ma
sleeps quiet.
*******
XUEXI HAN YU
(LEARNING CHINESE)
Shao hudie! Shao hudie! Shao hudie! Shao hudie!
your fingertips fluttering
all over my body
Little butterflies! Little butterflies! Little butterflies! Little butterflies!
Hey my Girlie! the nursery teacher
you taught me to spell love
and how to love smoothly
instead of nursery rhymes.
It's all over like in a movie.
I am a desperado in a nursing home.
Sitting on an isolated bench
And I recognized you from afar,
Your exceptional smile.
Oh! you are designated as a new Matron to this desperate home.Anyway I hope that you will teach me
Your Toy boy, again the spelling of love
And how to love politely not smoothly as earlier?
I'm always getting this junky mail
plopping through the door
inviting me to a 'car boot sale' -
but I never wear boots in the car!
A car is a car
If it can ride you nearby or far
A car is a car
When it gets you in time to the bar
A car is a car
When you are addressed as Madam or Sir
But for some
A car is not just a car
It is a home
After a daylight roam
It is a home
After a nightly roam
Kind of like a homelessness
Reoccurring syndrome
Now give me any banger of a car
I'll give it hotly showers of a sauna
Play sweet tunes to it from a guitar
By the time you watch me stand by it
And pose with an exotic cigar
Waiting to take you out to dinar
You may even prefer it to a modernised jaguar
You see, to me
A car is just a car
Be it in a new silver shining coat
Or one decorated with tarnished scars
The simple reality
Is they all have similar
Passenger capacity
Whether be it a personalised 8 seater stretch limousine
Or a Ferrari with an exploding roaring engine
A car is a car
A vehicle of motion
A medium of transportation
Even when it shows signs of erosion
As long as it can move from junction to junction
I personally sanction
A car is just a car
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
Che ck out my latest 'Justice & If I were a girl'
A car is a car.
Two days ago while Ringo was crossing the street into the sidewalk Suddenly a careless driver ran over the little kitten Ringo,        His mom called Possy did not about that accident, but                She gave birth to four little kittens in the same day Ringo had that Accident,                                                           Possy cared about Ringo, but                                         His fate was not a matter of questioning,                               We all felt sorry for Ringo's death, but                            We can not do anything,                                             Ringo rests in his tomb for ever, so                                 No fear about him anymore.
The rain's cold grains are silver-gray
Sharp as golden sands,
A bell is clanging, people sway
Hanging by their hands.
Supple hands, or gnarled and stiff,
Snatch and catch and grope;
That face is yellow-pale, as if
The fellow swung from rope.
Dull like pebbles, sharp like knives,
Glances strike and glare,
Fingers tangle, Bluebeard's wives
Dangle by the hair.
Orchard of the strangest fruits
Hanging from the skies;
Brothers, yet insensate brutes
Who fear each other's eyes.
One man stands as free men stand,
As if his soul might be
Brave, unbroken; see his hand
Nailed to an oaken tree.
A fun fill ride it was
though it scare the hell out of us
Bumping up and down in the car
Stopping and going so suddenly
But still fun we had though
you can hear swearing everywhere
Everyone swearing i would not
get in the car again if there a next time
Lucky it was late late in the night
and not many cars in sight
most lucky no police car  (hehehe)
and we did all got back safe and sound
He spoke of Burns: men rude and rough
Pressed round to hear the praise of one
Whose heart was made of manly, simple stuff,
As homespun as their own.
And, when he read, they forward leaned,
Drinking, with thirsty hearts and ears,
His brook-like songs whom glory never weaned
From humble smiles and tears.
Slowly there grew a tender awe,
Sun-like, o'er faces brown and hard,
As if in him who read they felt and saw
Some presence of the bard.
It was a sight for sin and wrong
And slavish tyranny to see,
A sight to make our faith more pure and strong
In high humanity.
I thought, these men will carry hence
Promptings their former life above,
And something of a finer reverence
For beauty, truth, and love.
God scatters love on every side
Freely among his children all,
And always hearts are lying open wide,
Wherein some grains may fall.
There is no wind but soweth seeds
Of a more true and open life,
Which burst, unlooked for, into high-souled deeds,
With wayside beauty rife.
We find within these souls of ours
Some wild germs of a higher birth,
Which in the poet's tropic heart bear flowers
Whose fragrance fills the earth.
Within the hearts of all men lie
These promises of wider bliss,
Which blossom into hopes that cannot die,
In sunny hours like this.
All that hath been majestical
In life or death, since time began,
Is native in the simple heart of all,
The angel heart of man.
And thus, among the untaught poor,
Great deeds and feelings find a home,
That cast in shadow all the golden lore
Of classic Greece and Rome.
O mighty brother-soul of man,
Where'er thou art, in low or high,
Thy skyey arches with exulting span
O'er-roof infinity!
All thoughts that mould the age begin
Deep down within the primitive soul,
And from the many slowly upward win
To one who grasps the whole:
In his wide brain the feeling deep
That struggled on the many's tongue
Swells to a tide of thought, whose surges leap
O'er the weak thrones of wrong.
All thought begins in feeling,-wide
In the great mass its base is hid,
And, narrowing up to thought, stands glorified,
A moveless pyramid.
Nor is he far astray, who deems
That every hope, which rises and grows broad
In the world's heart, by ordered impulse streams
From the great heart of God.
God wills, man hopes: in common souls
Hope is but vague and undefined,
Till from the poet's tongue the message rolls
A blessing to his kind.
Never did Poesy appear
So full of heaven to me, as when
I saw how it would pierce through pride and fear
To the lives of coarsest men.
It may be glorious to write
Thoughts that shall glad the two or three
High souls, like those far stars that come in sight
Once in a century;-
But better far it is to speak
One simple word, which now and then
Shall waken their free nature in the weak
And friendless sons of men;
To write some earnest verse or line,
Which, seeking not the praise of art,
Shall make a clearer faith and manhood shine
In the untutored heart.
He who doth this, in verse or prose,
May be forgotten in his day,
But surely shall be crowned at last with those
Who live and speak for aye.
The simple joys of life are nicer
A rose, a rain or a river
They're natural thus beautiful
Uncorrupted, pristine, eternal
They're the life and so pure
To any mental ailing perfect cure.
The cashew nut, the cigar, the car
In the hands of a dictator they affiliate more.
Artificiality and sophistry
In revival of fortunes they cause only melancholy
At last beyond the influence
They 're confined, socio phobic, so artificial
All true pleasures, delight, happiness of life forever denied.
I knew that
was a slow car
because it was not
going fast
see the snail trail
S shaped wandering
all over the road
see the knuckles
gripping the wheel
straight rigid ram rod
driving position
The railroad dick looked straight at him, eyes unwavering, beady-eyed, menacing, and Harry counted his change to see if there was enough for a bribe; searched his thoughts for an escape route, but he was not as young as he used to be and the dick was young, legs like a deer.
He tussled Barney’s hair and said:
“Go there in that thar car and wait for me, got to dump the dick. Wait for my whistle.”
Barney looked up him hesitantly and Harry stammered hoarsely
“Go! ”
Barney scrambled on all fours the way Harry had taught him and quickly disappeared under cover of the dark Chicago night.
Always, the dick against the Bos, the rich against the poor was Harry’s thought, been that way since her was born, the wanders, the lose, the lose people on the road trying to find an odd job and a meal, against the railroad fat cats trying to exterminate the railroad people, who what was just trying to get by.
Harry held his breath and told himself to concentrate and finally turned back to the dick and showed himself, full on so as the dick could get a good look at him. The dick wide-eyed and incredulous stared hard at Harry surprised by the brazenness of the tramp and stood stock still for a moment, prey in the eyes of the predator.
Harry swayed a little left and then a little right like a running back taunting the linebacker, which way boy, am I going to bolt, which way is the question. Harry feinted a dash to the right and the dick crouched right ready for the chase, Harry smiled and then feinted to the left, testing the dick’s reflexes. The dick danced to the left enjoying the thrilling moment before the chase.
Harry guessed Barney had had time to secure himself in the car and then dashed straight toward the dick, who was thoroughly surprised and steeled himself for what he thought would be a crash between the two men. But Harry at the last minute slanted right allowing the dick to remain close behind but not enough to lay hand on him.
He headed for track 13 for the Great Northern line car.
The dick was breathing behind him; Harry could hear his labored breaths, close enough but not close enough to grab, what was what Harry wanted.
He hit the Northern line yard and saw number 13 looming. The dick was laughing behind him yelping with the sheer joy of it all, feeling he had Harry cornered because the Northern lot was a closed in one, a big wall in the back, a closed station and of course cars, most closed.
But Harry was aiming toward 13 and left up into the car and waited for the dick to catch up and see him. Harry looked down at the man’s heaving chest smiling his best Harry smile.
To be Continued
Suddenly accelerating the running state
The leaders unexpectedly braked hard
As they treat it a bus old and unrepaired
The passengers like citizens got jerked
Some died, some wounded, some injured
Fortunately the state was not crushed
But stopped partly for a few days
The citizens sighed through sufferings.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |12/11/2016
I wanted a car when I wearied of walking.
With savings in hand, I left home to peruse.
The dealer was helpful, bright-eyed and fast-talking.
He offered two models from which I could choose.
The first looked immaculate, surfaces gleaming,
compared to the other, defaced by a scratch.
"The price is the same", said the car dealer, beaming.
I deemed him unscheming, so asked "What's the catch"?
He mumbled and hemmed as he opened each bonnet.
I missed all his words, for the squeak of the hood.
While first engine, seamless, had no mark upon it,
the other was patchwork of iron and wood.
The first car, he promised, would cause me no worry,
the makers long trusted with local renown.
He offered a test drive, said "No need to hurry,
as long as you stay within limits of town".
I took up the offer and signed on a paper.
The engine was purring and swift to respond.
But being a person who's fond of a caper,
I passed the town's limits and ventured beyond.
From then on the engine desisted from purring.
It coughed a smoke hairball and came to a halt.
The dealer arrived with a tow-truck, incurring
a fee charged to me since he judged it my fault.
He frowned and seemed puzzled, said "If you must ramble,
the other car's needed for leaving our town.
I have to inform, you'd be taking a gamble.
It's not a smooth ride and it sometimes breaks down".
I nodded and said "I accept the conditions",
then paid him in dollars and signed in the space.
And that was beginning of my expeditions
which took me here, there and all over the place.
The dealer told true, there are frequently glitches
with rattles and rumbles and things that go ping.
Mechanics repair it with staples and stitches,
or bright shiny gadgets or widgets or string.
I sometimes pass towns where the locals are driving
their own perfect models which never give strife.
Though bound to their towns, they appear to be thriving,
but this car will do, for a wandering life.
Cars and donkey carts, dust and noise, heat and mob
of humanity in a narrow street...Shoving and pushing
yet affable, of peoples who share a common bond.
A sharp flash that for a moment blinds the sun, then
the blast of an explosion, a shocked silence one can
hear a ticking clock, miles away.
Ambulance, police, screams and blood, when chaos
has abated, what’s left in the street are sandals that
belonged to those in the morgue...
Walls of white surround
Constant beeping is the only sound
Can’t move, I cry out in pain
Then they sedate me again
Lights are flashing
The ambulance is arriving
I can see the sympathetic looks of the crowd
My eyes close, and I pass out
I’m flying backward
A door bends inward
There’s a deafening sound in my ear
The car is impossible to steer
“Watch out! ” I scream
But my dad did not heed
My cry, he just drove ahead
To the crash that awaited
We were on the way
On the road for the day
Driving to the end of the path
With a weeks worth of luggage in tow
“Are you ready? Let’s go! ”
My dad’s face glowed
As we ran out the door
Hoping excitement was in store
I close my eyes
And it pops in my head
Now im wishing i was dead
For all i hear is hold on
Whike the white flys far
I cant think or breath
I cant even move my feet
The pain shoots through me
While my organs bleed
I guess you never know
When im going to leave
Now i no longer want to sleep
For as far as i can see
You already did the dirty deed
Now im stuck right here
In the pain of this day
Police lights
Oil leaks
I guess its a surprise
That we are even alive.
June-July with its divine hues comes every year;
Bringing car festival of its kind very rare,
Heaven of earth as people call it is Puri Dham,
Becomes lively, vibrant and colourful,
When Gods from heaven up above
Descend here to share joys with devotees so rare.
Three deities in three colourful and huge wooden Chariots;
Thousands of people pulling them to a distance of three furlongs,
From Srimandira to Gundicha Temple under scorching sun,
Ecstatic are devotees beating sun and pulling chariots,
And screaming Oh Lord, stay with us, don't go away,
Let thy presence be always felt by us and not shine away,
And the Chariots roll down the grand road to destination not far away.
Millions of pilgrims throng the grand road;
To have darshan (Holy view)   of our beloved lords,
Passing by in Chariots, touching our body, mind and soul,
Cleansing thousand births' sins just on viewing our Lords,
Devotees beating drums, dancing, singing in praise of Gods,
And the air filled with divine ecstasies, loves and sounds of choirs,
Seemingly mesmerizing Gods in heaven up above,
To descend on hallowed grand road to mingle with devotees-behold.
Embrace all, enthral all, love all and mingle with all;
Irrespective of castes, creeds and religions,
Our lords are symbolic of Brahma, Bishnu and Maheswara,
Stand for Sanatana Dharma as universal God or religion,
They are Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra,
Adoring the Chariots over the grand road pulled toward destination,
And as life's chariot o'er Time's grand road is drawn,
Our Lord Jagannath knows the way and destination,
While the rumbling wheels go on.
Car is here and I am in the car
Car is here and car is within me
Car is useless if I left the car
Car is here and I am going and coming.
Neither the car nor I
Who can be termed self-sufficient
Inter-linking system is there
And I trust the car being my best friend.
Car is taking me,
whose car? I feel
not necessary to know,
it is not mine, I am sure.
To truth, I want to go,
with the car but where the truth is,
that is not known to me,
and the car is taking me on its own.
Is the car under my control?
I am putting this question to myself
and the car is dithering
and the company is taking steps
for servicing and replacing the parts
damaged so far.
Combination of attractive physique and comfort
a medium of connectivity and economic growth
a mixture of technical innovation& development
undoubtedly owner’s pride and little bit matter of envy.
Numerous  design, make, color and shine
Automatic system make it more attractive
Huge space inside give feeling of comfort
Forced to say I should have company of car.
Car is a time saving medicine, which is need of the hour
One city to another city, even one country to another country
Play important role in tourism of country
Of course car relate to economic growth.
From noise   to noise free car
From hand to automatic and remote control system
From heated and low speed to air-condition and high speed car
A result of technical know and development.
It’s owner always feel themselves special
Keep body and mind refresh as well as active
Still many don’t have car comfort
Car is a symbol & status of hi-fi society.
Four wheels to take you anywhere.
Upon it you bestow loving care.
But woe be tide,
if anything goes wrong.
Its grace falls foul,
and you sing another song.
Just like a woman,
I’ve often heard this said.
For on frosty nights,
you’ve got to wrap it up warm for bed.
14 Nov 1978
some people male female
get out of cars slam doors
like throwing heavy boulders
the entire car shock wave rocks
goes through surprised heads
like elephants crushing egg shells
zen is tranquil quiet calm patient
sudden head bouncing on shoulders
earth is like this when nuclear tests
massive are exploded beneath surface
shock waves ripple in ground swells
earth quiet tested in ant mind experiments
relax rocked people car door is still on hinges
it is not nuclear tests just slamming doors
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Every morning I have to drive towards the sun
just as the sun is about to rise.
You pull down the car sun visor,
but it is always too short
and the sun gets in your eyes.
You cannot see the road ahead,
just yellow blobs before your eyes.
You keep blinking until they fade away.
One day I wish car manufactures
would road test their cars in the morning sun.
They then might make
the car sun visors a little larger
to stop the sun getting in your eyes.
11 February 2008
Drivin' away in my automobile,
taking a corner a little too fast
chuckling loudly about the great deal
300 horses oh what a sweet blast.
Coppers are hanging on to my tail,
ought to be chasin' the crooks in town,
planting my foot, stay out of jail
what's going up surely comes down.
God gave me this Daimler Benz
ain't my corned beef if laws of the land
do not conform, I have great friends,
up there in heaven where Jesus blends
fuel made for racing, sends it to me
nothing they have will keep up the pace.
I will prevail,  be homebound  for tea
pigs of the world, give up your chase.
Drivin'   away in my automobile
writing my laws as I want them to read,
no one but I would know how to steal
modern fast cars, it's a definite need.
Once apon a time, long, long ago
Daddy's car broke down when he bumped into a doe.
Mummy got her mobile, and called it to get towed
But when the fella came he said it was too big a load.
Brother bought an Ipod and listened all the while
Sister in the back put all her toys into a pile.
Daddy had a little fight with big man with a truck,
Mummy held a little tight to sisters toy pet duck.
Brother started singing when his favorite tune came on,
Daddy got a bruise when he said big man wieghed a tonne.
Mummy in the back looking for a big band-aid,
Sister saying help as she got on her knees and prayed.
i live in a family of nuts, so what more can i say
Other than i was surprised when that dead doe ran away.
Well, I should be sittin in an air conditioned office in a swivel chair
Talkin some trash to the secretaries
Sayin, here, now mama, come on over here.
Come summer the work gets kind a hard
This ain't no place to be if ya planned on being a star.
Let me tell you it's always cool
And the boss don't mind sometimes if ya act a fool.
Did a dentist named Dr. George Trusty could have done it?
Did dentist don the disco dance that put Brandy Fanning singin’ the blues?
Did the dentist know what has he done, his moves of body that do not quite fit,
His moves that would jeopardize his patients health as I heard today on the news?
Croce wouldn’t have done this, neither Rose Royce,
Kickin’ their songs about car washes,
But Trusty knew he had choice,
About doctoring the person in his chair,
About being serious, when you drill in to their mouth,
It is though he couldn’t care,
About his dentistry, may all his patient, beware.
He cracked a bit in nasal cavity,
He told her to sneeze,
He said something gone wrong,
She should blow out with ease.
NOT! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
It not snot! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
May Brandy get more than 600k that is hers rightly so,
May you not have a dentist tell “It’s going to be alright if you blow”.
(11-4-2007)
You pull into a car park
and they spring out of nowhere.
“Do you want your car washed
while you’re doing your shopping?
We do not charge a lot.”
My answer is no.
“Sorry mate but my car is under scientific study.
I am an insect- ornithologist.
I study bird droppings and insect splatters.
I get out every night with my tweezers,
take the remaining bits off,
and put them in a specimen jar.
I am also going in for
the dirtiest car of the year award.
I have won it three times already.
So you see my car does not need a wash thank you.”
They look at me somewhat strangely
before they go on their merry way.
Therefore, the next time you pull into a car park
and someone wants to wash your car.
Just tell them you are an insect-ornithologist
engaged in a scientific study.
They will never understand what you mean.
They might think you are somewhat strange,
but you will save yourself a packet.
Now that ain’t strange, that is wise.
(22 July 2007)
The most humorous
Car wreck I witnessed
Was on the old coast road.
I had returned to my cabana at dusk
After observing a hilarious shark attack
From the bluff above the beach.
The clouds were a smooch of pink.
I'd just sat down with my book,
Canterbury Tales, which
I was reading for the fourth time.
What an underrated book, I remember thinking.
Yes, I know it’s famous, but
You don’t usually find it on
Anyone’s top ten.
Not even top twenty.
You probably read it back in your
Treasure Island years.
If you read it again, I’m sure you’ll
Discover new insights swooshing off the page
Like little geysers.
Savoring the rich language that careens towards you with
Bright headlights while you’re crossing the Old Coast Road,
I’m sure you’ll move it up a few notches,
Maybe even into your twenty.
The leather upholstery and walnut dash
Nothing plastic looking cheap or brash
The shiny chrome and deep rug pile
Just sitting in it brings a smile
To clean for hours on weekend day
Then fill with petrol and drive away
To country place with airs and grace
This big old beauty has such pace
To see the many admiring stares
As they hurl past in their look-alike wares
Of modern age with designer fashion
All quiet the same, but no real passion
As hobbies go its not so cheap
Yet then again the joy you reap
Makes pure indulgence so worthwhile
As the whole 4 litre echoes such style
It’s old yet ageless none the less
With uneconomical thirst and zest
Then as you drive it all the while
Consider its journey mile on mile
Throughout its years and ownerships
What places has it been?
I wonder was it loved in early days
And by its then owner cleaned
Or did the staff just do the chore
And fetch it round to large front door
With owner sitting in the back
Just being chauffeured, prestige and that!
Copyright © 2007 Ray Feasey
Don’t try to take the driver’s wheel
When someone is spinning out of control.
Just let them make their own wrong turns
And… let the wheel go!
If we’re always sitting in the drivers seat
One will never know how to drive.
Just sit and be God’s passenger…and pray
And allow that driver to drive.
They’re in the best of hands you know
God is sitting in the back.
He oversees just what we need
So just enjoy the trip…relax!
By: Linda Winchell
Copyright: 2009
The price of gasoline at the pump jumped so high;
therein robbing me of my play money, forcing me to eat
peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, brown bagged
like an immature child enrolled in secondary school economics.
But being an older white male as I am, successful but
with only an average vertical jump; below that of four dollars a gallon.
I decided to turn in my gas guzzling and expensively leased SUV’s
to drive my aged mother’s old car that had been parked
as she can no longer benefit from the use of its
six cylinder and more efficient to operate, classic styling.
And when I say classic, I mean damn old.
This car is so old that in the year in which it was built
I not only had plenty of hair but my sperm count was still
much higher than the balance in my bank account.
The old car’s paint still shines like diamonds, the leather upholstery
maintains its new car smell; everything works and the engine runs well.
Driving around town with my brown bagged lunch on the
passenger’s seat, I can fully appreciate the appeal of quality
and old time luxury….and the fact that the gas gauge hardly moves…
I think back on a time when mother had two good knees,
two good hips, and two good eyes and she could drive
to the store on her own; where she could buy bread for under
a dollar a loaf, or milk for less than two dollars a gallon. Turkey
was ninety eight cents a pound and ham costs no more than Spam.
Those were the days when the dollar was worth a dollar
and a gallon of gas was cheap….before it made this crazy leap
above and beyond my ability to keep up with the Jones’s.
Reflecting on those good old days when my mom
was just mom and not some old woman who stares out the window
trying to remember where she left her keys….
I am reminded of the two lane streets with their blinking caution lights
as I now look at ten lanes of bumper to bumper, people cussing,
flipping you off at every red and slow changing traffic light
all fully equipped with a camera and a computer’s brain
that will take your picture and promptly mail it to your wife....
if that isn’t a peanut butter sandwich sitting next to you
in the front seat of your mother's old retired car….
2008 © T Sheridan
Like the car he drives,
He will pass you in the fast lane of life,
Like the blaring music from his car,
He loves life and a good joke,
Like the roaring engine of his car,
His temper will take off like a racer to the finish line,
With his fast car he ran straight through everyones heart,
When his engine went he went along with his fast car to heaven,
Going fast as he could down the road of eternal sleep,
While he lies in his eternal sleep never to wake his fast
car lies with him!
R.I.P Javier Solis Medina
From Deniliquin to Jerilderie paddocks gray and bare and brown
On to Narrandera and West Wyalong and many smaller country town,
To Forbes and Parkes and on through Dubbo, Gilgandra and Coonabarabran
Miles and miles of weary travel through the world of outback man.
On to Narribri and then to Moree on the north bound Newell highway
Through New South Wales the country's first State on a sunny April day
And we cross the Queensland border just after the sun go down
And we spend our first night in the Sunshine State in Goondiwindi Town.
Lettered signboards along the highway 'stop and rest for to survive'
From Victoria to South Queensland it's a long and tiring drive
For to see all of Australia it might take a century
It's a vast and open country and a lot of land to see.
Miles and miles of sunburnt country here and there a patch of green
Flocks of sheep and herds of cattle in the brownest land I've seen,
Kangaroos victims of traffic ravens pecking at their eyes
Here and there along the highway left as fodder for the flies.
This vast land of wondrous beauty is too big for man to tame
It's a wild and rugged country for want of a better name
Just a small part of Australia but the journey seems quite far
If you travel from Victoria to south Queensland in a car.
From the wooded hills of Sherbrooke to Echuca's border Town
On through New South Wales and northwards though a country wild and brown
On beyond South Queensland border to rest after tiring day
Just a small part of Australia but it seems a long, long way.
There are ghosts inside of the engine of my car
And while I am driving my car
I hear some funny noises that the engine of my car is making
Come you, cartoonists,
Hang on a strap with me here
At seven o’clock in the morning
On a Halsted street car.
Take your pencils
And draw these faces.
Try with your pencils for these crooked faces,
That pig-sticker in one corner—his mouth—
That overall factory girl—her loose cheeks.
Find for your pencils
A way to mark your memory
Of tired empty faces.
After their night’s sleep,
In the moist dawn
And cool daybreak,
Faces
Tired of wishes,
Empty of dreams.
Exceptions are there are none.
Why there are none but after that being done unto me even the headlong car is not feared, my race was half ran before it was over.
As for fear of rape inside by men is it different than for woman?
Which is Kanpuu who is it to know and blows time over everything;
As for the body left by they whom know to wander aimlessly for there transgressions in my mind, unorthodox never to walk the road.
Of the sand which you can stoop down to gather up through open hands, independently through the pine forest.
My road was not of such to rise to the road which crosses over the mountain of which becomes bald.
Forever is ever when that aluminum of the mouth, there is no I,
that person looking at it that it rises to my your the one.
When never to open the door to the knock, spearing the throat there is no pointed razor which eats off the pasture.
The rear seat of fear,
and the front of the car can be dark each aspect of both applying, haunted house of the sky and others farming it out and others as for the key which makes sucking wet sounds snake' You like;
The warning is.
I have fear of that person of no smile.
If my body was a car,
I'd trade it in for a newer model.
For I think I need a towbar,
From the dents I've endured in battle.
My paint job is a little dull,
My headlights are out of focus.
I'm no longer very mobile,
My body's an old aged carcass.
My bodywork's full of varicose scratches,
I'm in need of cosmetic work.
My brakes make nasty screeches,
That stops me with a jerk.
My traction is not as graceful,
I slip and slide and skid.
I have to drive quite careful,
Never mind what weather I'm in.
It takes me hours to reach a speed,
My fuel rate burns inefficiently.
I need some TLC to succeed,
And nice accessories that are costly.
Every time I sneeze or cough,
My radiator leaks.
My exhaust backfires a lot,
And my tires now tend to squeak.
Yes, if my body was a car,
I'd trade it in for sure.
I think I'd choose a jaguar,
With a body all slick and grandeur!
I have bought this car
By my own money
I am driving my own car
Under the control of material nature.
My wife my son my daughter
All are here helping me
In this life-driving, my dear
Let me be a free driver.
O my dear, You have given me the licence
To drive this car here and there
You have given me the chance
To fight with water and fire.
I know it is I who is responsible for the accident if any
I know my car my licence are subject to seize for reckless drive.
I don’t know sh^t: I studied enough to learn
The job,
But I forgot everything:
In the new continent where I watched my peers
Kill Christians;
But all I killed was a dancing chicken,
And the trees went forever upwards, haven’t
Being used: Fry the meat, live in waddle and daub,
Steal the girl: get a good paying job,
Tie your shoes:
This is what they sang to me from their cars,
Going up the hills with ease, graveyard shopping,
going fast and clean
And surreal, Catholic injuns- the feather light professional Christians
With new tongues and tickets to ride the ski lift:
Odin said kill them all, but
All I could do was fall in love with her at the university.
I lived in a hole like a rabbit:
I had a red lizard’s soul, and I sharpened my knife
On her wet stone heart,
But she was thoroughly petrified and I broke my
Gift on her and it didn‘t come back,
Like a dog would, or that careless, captured sea:
I wrote a worthy thesis and climbed some mountains
As an exegesis, and no one cared:
They moved in together and shared, and I lived in my
Hole in the earth, strange erotic dreams of bright teal
Tennis courts where my papers flew like late blooming  moths:
All over the place, restive and reasoning under her leaping tennis skirts.
The housewives loved me, molted the exoskeletons
Of their insouciant habits: Those auto grazers
Were giant and had so many legs, and ate themselves
With afforested tongue, and then laughed about it
Going to the tanning salon in their blazers:
She changed her name and forgot how I’d showed her
The tattoo south of my navel I got in Spain:
I forgot everything I learned about her,
My comrades forsaking me thinking I was dead,
A consumptive pickle-faced Mary Jane, I drank alone in my
Pine-needle bed- my toes peeking out of the covers to
Check the weather, and continued to worship the reindeers I could
No longer raise with my impotent necromancy
Stuffing my head.
inside the car one rainy day
one sees the scattering of people
who do not have anything
tears fall on your cheeks thinking
that you are miserable
you finally wipe them and look
at those other miseries of
children pushing carts to
hide their wares
of drivers looking
for their hard earned money
of women disappointed for
loss of customers
tonight
this damn rainy day that finally
gives you the comfort that
at least despite all your
self-invented sorrows
your
own chaos
you are still one
God damn lucky guy
The eyelids meet. He'll catch a little nap.
The grizzled, crew-cut head drops to his chest.
It shakes above the briefcase on his lap.
Close voices breathe, "Poor sweet, he did his best."
"Poor sweet, poor sweet," the bird-hushed glades repeat,
Through which in quiet pomp his litter goes,
Carried by native girls with naked feet.
A sighing stream concurs in his repose.
Could he but think, he might recall to mind
The righteous mutiny or sudden gale
That beached him here; the dear ones left behind . . .
So near the ending, he forgets the tale.
Were he to lift his eyelids now, he might
Behold his maiden porters, brown and bare.
But even here he has no appetite.
It is enough to know that they are there.
Enough that now a honeyed music swells,
The gentle, mossed declivities begin,
And the whole air is full of flower-smells.
Failure, the longed-for valley, takes him in.
I ran my car into God today;
I thought I had the right of way.
He says He’s suing after all;
Can you believe the Almighty gall.
“What happened to your spiel on Love? ”
“Not right now, Ms. Gilles Villeneuve!
I’ve been trying to get your whole attention;
I’m tired of your so-called good intention! ”
But I have things to do, a schedule to keep;
That Sunday check, it is not cheap!
Clients, family, even a yard,
And a shoddy attempt to be a bard.
But He tells me He’s feeling quite neglected;
Always the last one to be selected.
So I’m thinking “a little TLC”
And, just maybe, I could go scott-free.
I suggest coffee in a couple of days.
“I’m giving up caffeine! ”, so He says.
“So, what are my options? ” I almost yell.
“I thought you’d never ask to tell.
Take Me with you. I’ll ride along! ”
“A ride along? Now that's just wrong!
Will You pick the radio stations too? ”
“Is that too much to ask of you? ”
I threatened I would write about this…
“Go ahead! Won’t be your first hit-and-miss! ”
“Alright! Alright! Just come along,
But don’t say much and don’t sing that song! ”
So in order to prevent litigation,
I’m taking Him along…even on vacation!
So, it’s just a silly car wash?
My friend, it’s so much more!
It’s an opportunity to help—
A noble cause now at your door.
You say she’s not that dirty
And that you can’t afford to stop;
I say just think of the purpose
And let us wash her, bottom to top.
Let the volunteers of this good cause
Wash away the filth and slime.
Would you give a nice donation?
Would you make a little time?
Remember, Jesus taught us
“’Tis better to give than receive.”
May we wash your car today?
Help us, our goal to achieve.
English professor and poet Narayana Kasturi
was an employee of All India Radio.
He had in an Indian humor magazine
made fun of Sathya Sai Baba. After
a series of miracles involving his
family, he became a devout follower
and editor of Baba's magazine
Sanathana Sarathi (eternal charioteer,
a reference to Krishna who would not
fight in the Mahabharata war but instead
was charioteer for Arjuna.)
One day a car caravan as often happened
was following Baba's car to a destination.
One after another, parts fell off of Kasturi's
car. When they arrived Kasturi took the car
to a mechanic who said it was physically
impossible for the car to have arrived.
Kasturi went to Baba and asked 'Was it
because we are good devotees that you
did this miracle for us? ' and Baba replied
'The car, the car is a great devotee.'
To the memory of the Rhodesian Helicopter Pilots and
the 20mm cannon Gunner.Two men one helicopter;
known as K-car…..Killer-car.
A formidable force in the Rhodesian Bush War.
RHODESIAN K-CAR
‘Chopper’ pilot calmness,
Cannon gunner’s skill,
Two minds in perfect harmony,
Flew in now for the kill,
Ten comrades in arms,
Pinned down by enemy fire,
Ambushed and compromised,
Their backs now to the wire.
One pilot and one gunner,
Men who knew no fear,
S.O.S. came through to them,
Urgent… but so clear,
“K-car, Call sign Bravo, ”
“Contact, contact, contact”!
Pilot with nerves of steel,
And veraciously exact,
“We have you visual, four o’clock”,
Crackled in the pilot’s ear
He responded calmly “Roger
Call sign Bravo… illuminate a flare”
Flare lit up and in they flew,
Oblivious of the danger;
Twas deaths turn to roll the dice,
With life their coin of wager.
Two hands upon the cannon grips,
One finger on the trigger,
Gunner’s eye took a site,
Through peep site to the jigger;
Bullets ripped into the cockpit,
Of that killer-car machine,
Barely two year out of school,
K-car gunner… aged nineteen
Fire Force airborne pilot,
Turned cannon to the smoke,
Gunner pressed the trigger,
And the dragon now awoke;
Twenty millimeter cannon,
Boomed forth volcanic life
Spewing deadly rounds,
Of instant death and strife.
No place for enemy to hide,
From this matchless opponent;
Terrorists now in full flight,
Were gunned down in a moment.
The Kill-car hovered overhead,
Just six foot off the ground,
Two enemy lay screaming,
But from thirty dead…no sound.
Most men of war, whom I knew then,
Have turned now to the Lord,
They have turned into plow shears,
Their weapons and their sword.
Lord please teach us here in Africa,
Love for one another;
Take xenophobic intolerance from us,
Teach us to love our brother.
Alone rides slap of rails
to jerk, down and up, are
lights move away, seen
hand in hair, sweet lap.
Peach clouds my head.
Last night I drove a car
not knowing how to drive
not owning a car
I drove and knocked down
people I loved
...went 120 through one town.
I stopped at Hedgeville
and slept in the back seat
...excited about my new life.
By stuffing newspaper up the exhaust of my car
Somebody I do not know have taken their fun too far
I do not have a known enemy and I'm new to this Town
Why is someone I do not know trying to drag me down?
My car it felt sick and I rang the R A C V
And what the mechanic discovered a huge surprise to me
A newspaper rolled up blocked the exhaust pipe rear
By some not too nice person it was pushed in there.
I am not without sin I will not cast the stone
But if you do not like the look of me leave my car alone
You do unto others what you'd like them do to you
Those words not by me but those words seem so true.
Against the person who did this I could not hold a grudge
And since I am not meant to be anyone's judge
Of that karma will surely take care
What goes around comes around that does seem fair.
Some non thinking person with low self esteem
Could only do something like this it would seem
And I would like to say to this person leave my old car be
You should not harm my car if you do not like me.
I am new to this Town here not many I know
And all I ask of anyone is a fair go
I am not without sin I will not cast the stone
And if you do not like the look of me leave my car alone.
How I adore a bright sunny morn
Glorious summer glistening with light
Reminiscent of days in the blue Ford Anglia
When we travelled the road ~ love at its height.
Again I can see the whole picture
Of the hills and heather so sweet,
The scenery resembling an island of dreams
As our blue Ford Anglia made happiness complete.
Secretly, I offer a silent prayer
Those bygone days still live in my heart.
Just we two, in that little car of blue
Admiring the magnificence of God's works of art.
A thousand children. How could I remember
all of them? I was the teacher; they were there
to learn. Those were our roles; that was the contract.
They would move up and I move on, for all of us
always a new beginning.
But now and then
one will return to haunt me, like the girl
whose secret friend drove a red plastic car.
I have it still. He was a tiny version
of myself.
The boy, his skin flaking
and cracked with eczema, trying to resist
the urge to scratch. How could he bear to wake
each day to face that life? Yet I was proud
he claimed me for his brother.
Another girl,
seventeen, crossing the Alps, moved beyond tears
by her first sight of mountains.
Do they remember?
Maybe they do. A young man in the street
I met by chance surprised me by recalling
how I read Winnie-the-Pooh when he was small
and did the animals in different voices.
So many children, so many years have gone,
but memories, like hope, can linger on.
« prev. song
next song »
Fast Car
You got a fast car
I want a ticket to anywhere
Maybe we make a deal
Maybe together we can get somewhere
Anyplace is better
Starting from zero got nothing to lose
Maybe we'll make something
But me myself I got nothing to prove
You got a fast car
And I got a plan to get us out of here
I been working at the convenience store
Managed to save just a little bit of money
We won't have to drive too far
Just 'cross the border and into the city
You and I can both get jobs
And finally see what it means to be living
You see my old man's got a problem
He live with the bottle that's the way it is
He says his body's too old for working
I say his body's too young to look like his
My mama went off and left him
She wanted more from life than he could give
I said somebody's got to take care of him
So I quit school and that's what I did
You got a fast car
But is it fast enough so we can fly away
We gotta make a decision
We leave tonight or live and die this way
I remember we were driving driving in your car
The speed so fast I felt like I was drunk
City lights lay out before us
And your arm felt nice wrapped 'round my shoulder
And I had a feeling that I belonged
And I had feeling I could be someone, be someone, be someone
You got a fast car
And we go cruising to entertain ourselves
You still ain't got a job
And I work in a market as a checkout girl
I know things will get better
You'll find work and I'll get promoted
We'll move out of the shelter
Buy a big house and live in the suburbs
You got a fast car
And I got a job that pays all our bills
You stay out drinking late at the bar
See more of your friends than you do of your kids
I'd always hoped for better
Thought maybe together you and me would find it
I got no plans I ain't going nowhere
So take your fast car and keep on driving
You got a fast car
But is it fast enough so you can fly away
You gotta make a decision
You leave tonight or live and die this way
Chapman Tracy Lyrics: 14 / 42 « prev. song
The Christmas tree has dried to brittle green
Gifts are stacked within the bedroom closet
Santa’s visit costs more than children glean
Money runs free like water from faucet
My car is broke again I must repair
Damages to plug, pump and oil pan
Now in the season of excessive care
My mechanic made a lucrative plan
The elves inside your engine must be quelled
With regular maintenance and good gas
Visit me once a month he smiled and yelled
While I walked away frowning, one sad lass
Find a new car - a good resolution
One that runs is a better solution
Of Morris Motors fame,
William Richard was his name
William Richard Morris Nuffield
Viscount Baron, born in Britain
eighteen seventy-seven...died
in Britain nineteen sixty-three.
His success story began with
a humble cycle repair shop,
but there, business did not stop as
eventually Morris Motors did thrive
and in nineteen-twenty, the Morris
Cowley was a popular car to drive.
What could be finer than a black
Morris Minor...I once owned one myself
and happy was I.  In later years
Morris and Austin 'merged' as part of
British Leyland. William was made
Viscount ~ the founder of a motor
car empire, giving his millions to
Medical Research, and setting
hearts afire.  He was Founder of the
Nuffield College and the Nuffield
Foundation, bringing a touch of magic
to our striving nation.  Britain will
ever remember this interesting and
important step in industrial salvation.
Driving on a cold winter night,
drove with tears drowning my sight.
Didnt know where to turn
Drove into a ditch and felt a burn.
Lights blinding me in my eyes,
You could see the fears i tried to disguise.
I never thought i would make it out alive,
but God was there to help me strive.
So many thoughts going through my brain
I loved you once, but not again.
If i didnt get out of the car soon
I wouldnt live to see the shiny moon.
I was hospitalized for 2 weeks, in a coma for one of those weeks.
You never would have none, because you didnt ask,
While you forgot my name,
I forgot how much i cared about you.
But while in the hospital, i was thinking about dying,
I was thinking about you, and how you forgot everything you shared,
i got in a real car accident, but in the end, the only accident i got in, was letting you in to my heart and life.
Decided are my ways;
Altered are my days,
for I know where to move;
For I know the way to reach.
My destination is too far to being seen.
With a map set in my mind,
With a slow speed I will start,
the engine of my car.
Well I am the lone driver,
I am the lone traveller;
Gear is set.
Mind is set right.
Mirror is well set up,
So that I get the three dimensional view.
Slowly I accelerated the speed,
Now I know the ABC of life,
I know when to apply break,
I know when to accelerate the speed
I know when to use clutch.
Here I am set to go!
I have to keep on moving,
On the same speed,
With my eyes and ears open,
My mind should work in coordination with,
My eyes, ears and hands.
My wonder car started,
Moving ahead all way.
It will wait for none,
Till my brain is in gear.
I will not turn back.
In between I will put a break
To give a pause to my brain too.
My wonder car started
Its moving towards a new way.
Through the path that seemed to be rough and smooth.
Today, Nothing matters me much.
I have to move ahead through unknown path.
With a steering controlled by my hand and mind.
I will move ahead with thrill and reach my destination.
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY GEETHA JAYAKUMAR 2014
© 2014.
Geetha Jayakumar.
A fool stole my car and damaged it!
And, when he was caught,
A wise man said he will pay twice as much for my car;
Hoping to repair my care and take care ofthe thief.
Then i said: ' I will give this care for free to the thief'!
The thief then answered: 'Oh! If i knew then that, this care will be mine as a gift, i will not have stolen it in the first place';
However, in this life, 'It is better to ask than, to steal'.
So, i got the value of my car being paid twice as much from the wise man;
And, he took the damaged car and the thief away.
Here is my car
The driver sits in the car
And moves as he desires.
My body is a car
The car-body is moving
By the control of material nature.
My body is a railway train
The railway train-body is moving
Under the direction of the controller.
But I am a spiritual spark
Part and parcel of You, my dear
It is Your kindness that I am here.
I love my
Car...
My car...
Is only
Two weels...
No want petrole...
No want Bio- gas...
Two member only
Travel my car...
Every wear...
Every side...
My car move and move...
Run and run...
with my leg speed...
I was play my car...
Each every day...
Another's called my car name
Was cycle...
I was lovengely calling car...
Yes...
Cycle is my car...
What is your car...!
My brakes won't applicable to these mockery roads
As it's too old they say.
I keep my both hands on the steering wheel
But it goes to its own consent.
I am scared if it stops on a hill side
As my poor torn wallet doesn't contains
Those tricky notes to refuel.
I will never forget the day I bought my first new car,
And had a date with a girl that lived not too far,
We drove out into the suburbs and parked under a full moon,
And listened to the car radio play a brand new tune,
And if my neighbour would ever ask who the girl was,
That was in the car,
I will tell them it was my late mother
who's on her way to heavenly abode,
The day I bought the car.
I have a little red car,
that fits five quite comfortably,
but members of my family
when shopping think I drive a lorry.
The thing is that they think
it will take them as well,
would you believe.
I do not know where they got the notion
that if you push the back seat down
you can carry triple the amount.
In a minute if they keep going
I will be driving through the sunroof
as there will not be any room
for me in my little red car.
(7 July 2007)
You are a brown dumpster
With wheels. And me smiling,
Wearing my new sunglasses
Driving you crazy sitting on
Your rubber wobbly
Roof.
I drink another diet coke
And throw it in the back
With the other 500 cans
And the papers, and the gum
Stuck to the carpet like it’s
Got teeth.
Burrito bell smell attacks!
68 empty mickie D bags.
You can slide your steel
Door to let out the animals
And insects that call you
Home.
Sitting on a trash receptacle
I chuckle as people stare
At us scraping up the road,
Chewing concrete like cupcakes,
Our sparks screaming bloody
Murder.
I throw a half a Whopper
Into the back seat as we
Pull up to the drive (threw)
And you, monster dumpster,
Breathing heavy @ doesn’t fit.
Too rusty.
The lady screams at us.
Get the hell out of dodge!
Gotta make it to hardy’s
Though. Need some lipids.
You’re a brown rubbish bin.
Overflowing.
I go and get my new car today, boy I'm so excited
I chose it yesterday, I can't wait to be reunited
It's shiny and black with alloy wheels and a spoiler on the back.
I go and get my new car today, boy I just can't wait
I said I'd be back at four today, I don't want to be late
It's got leather trim on the inside and clips for a roof rack.
I go and get my new car today, boy I'm all jumbly inside
I know it runs well because I took it for a drive
It's got electric headlamps and the interior is black.
I go and get my new car today, boy it's nearly time
only thirty minutes left to go before that car is mine
It's fast and tricky to steer but I'll soon get the knack.
I go and get my new car today, boy it's really great
I just can't wait to show it to my mate
It's just the best car ever on my toy racing track!
inside the nice brand new luxury car
(and hence very expensive)  rides a body that drives smoothly on the
road to the sin city,
inside the tinted glass window with a remote control
screams his rotten soul....
He ran
Fast as anyone can
Away from home
He chose to roam
Didn’t get along
But he took his song
He ran far
Now living in a car
Not much company
Such an epiphany
Freedom rang
Every time he sang
Sleeping in his car
His pillow his guitar
Song his creation
The road his destination
Dreams he has many
Doubts, no room for any
His heart so large
His soul in charge
Living in a car
Guided by a star
As if blind
He left so much behind
Stubbornly he wanted more
Wind beneath his wings to soar
Fast foods, fast times
Hard hills, hard climbs
Living in a car
Healing of a scar
Like a baby bird has flown
Alone into a zone unknown
Why he made a dash
Was he headed for a crash?
He made a hard choice
Hoping for one to hear his voice
Can this boy sing?
To him it’s everything
And it will do him good
He’s going to Hollywood
Child, a moment of love ago
you danced in the eye of the woman
who made you. When another moment
like the innocent wheat that made the loaf
of bread she sent you for
in this field of the heart's ploughed land
you were threshed!
I had a dream: you came to me
on purple car, as in a childhood.
Only one driver had a seat -
you gave to me the place of driver.
and then we both went for a walk -
rather, I was driving, you - on foot.
you could say nothing for so long,
watched as a kid, with speechless look.
Once we had a car,
that was the colour of silver grey.
Now this little car, who we called our jam jar,
just loved a rainy day.
She would drive around for hour's,
with her wiper's turned on,
they would race back and forwards,
until the rain had compleatly gone.
Her brakes were truely majic,
when pulled up at a halt.
Then a funny sort of sound would come,
as if she was saying' that ain't my fault!
This lovely little car of our's,
was just a little dream,
driving down the highway,
with her headlights on full beam.
Everytime it rained, she always looked bright,
even if we were driving,
all through the night.
The crome on her bumper,
shone like stars in the sky.
Then everything seemed to change,
when the weather turned dry.
The jam jar, would not start,
because her battery woulden't charge,
so jump leads were needed,
with a push, shuve and a barge.
If we went on our holidays,
and the weather was fine,
we always prayed for rain,
so we would reach there on time.
In seventy six, there came a heatwave,
and the weather was boiling hot.
The same thing happened to our jam jar,
then she gave her last breath,
and died there on the spot.
Parked at the curb,
The Petaluma Police could not observe,
The car their sarge had parked;
Not very far,
I found me that car,
And quickly thereto embarked;
While I approached the police cruiser,
I viewed the 'soon to be' accuser,
Yet continued on with my plan;
Two tires were popped,
As downward they dropped,
I fled in my sedan;
A laughing desire,
Brought a slash to each tire,
Done in full brightness of the day;
There I lurked,
Around the corner the cops worked,
And with them came my chance to play;
;
From each tire's quick blow,
Came the thrill hearing the air let flow,
And to the ground them rims did go;
By the knife's quick swing,
Came laughter from the hiss sound of air leaking,
While leaving the surprise of needing a tow;
No, 'Candid Camera' wasn't there,
To capture the officer's expression or glare,
When he viewed the car he left so careless;
Did he first move his car,
To discover that he couldn't drive far? ,
Did he hear the hiss or were they flat and airless?
Oh, what a dare,
For me to hear that gush sound of air,
Then escape, without being caught;
But with a short quiz,
The accuser said, 'I know who it is! ',
Well, my sedan, the police then sought;
My laughter was hard,
While I headed for my yard,
Though trouble was coming my way;
All patrol units looked about,
To search me out,
For the trouble that I now must pay,
While homeward I scoot,
Came a Sonoma County sheriff's deputy in pursuit,
Riding his cruiser close to my rear;
Bright red lights flashed on,
The fun was gone,
But still, I had no fear;
The joy it brought,
Was lost when caught,
And the laughter vanished away;
Very few people knew,
About the other police tires I blew,
And now just caught this day;
Stopped outside my home gate,
Came red lights  to wait,
The identification of who they caught;
Patrol units swarmed about,
It was me, they had no doubt,
They've captured who they sought;
Police car hysteria,
Was swarming the area,
Oh, it was boiling hot;
Like a beehive ready,
With a sting so steady,
A large police force quickly was brought;
'Put cuffs on them hands...'
As the police sergeant commands,
'...then take 'em in for lockup...'
With two flats on the cruiser,
The joke was a doozer,
As the number of times, years over, buildup;
I was brought before a judge,
But really...I had no grudge,
Gave forty dollars to the bondsman to bail;
As the jail door opened wide,
Quickly, I dashed outside,
Now released from the Sonoma County Jail;
I appeared in court again and again,
But a plea bargain made that end,
And no more jail time had I to pay;
Made unhappy, I was,
But that could be because,
'Pay for two tires and don't do it again', heard I, the court say;
Other police agencies know,
Twenty-eight of their tires went low,
The Cotati police headquarters suffered the worst;
Well, with two tires to buy,
My score remains still very high,
Considering the others I prior had burst;
If it ever happens again,
It won't be me, though I'll still grin.
I've retired, finally, from this crime;
The memory I still  bare,
The laughter, its thrill and dare;
And the story turned now into rhyme;
I. CHICKENS
I am The Great White Way of the city:
When you ask what is my desire, I answer:
"Girls fresh as country wild flowers,
With young faces tired of the cows and barns,
Eager in their eyes as the dawn to find my mysteries,
Slender supple girls with shapely legs,
Lure in the arch of their little shoulders
And wisdom from the prairies to cry only softly at
the ashes of my mysteries."
II. USED UP
Lines based on certain regrets that come with rumination
upon the painted faces of women on
North Clark Street, Chicago
Roses,
Red roses,
Crushed
In the rain and wind
Like mouths of women
Beaten by the fists of
Men using them.
O little roses
And broken leaves
And petal wisps:
You that so flung your crimson
To the sun
Only yesterday.
III. HOME
Here is a thing my heart wishes the world had more of:
I heard it in the air of one night when I listened
To a mother singing softly to a child restless and angry
in the darkness.
My car has broken down.
I have a comfortable feeling
That the future will be better,
Having had a car,
Than it would have been,
Had I never had one at all.
Like that old adage about love:
That, without it,
Expect no comfort from the past.
Gordon Loft was a traffic officer working radar duty
Whose wife and daughter was in a family beauty
His crew were operating the radar on Gorge road
And detected an offender in speeding car mode
So Gordon walked out on the hot bitumen
To indicate to this driver who was without acumen
The driver swerved into Gordon knocking him down
And he was killed lying broken on the ground
His mates quickly ran to his aid
And the driver in his escape made
There was nothing left to be done
Except find the driver who had run
So they found and charged him for Gordon's death
And he was jailed but it did not diminish tragedy's breath
So again a family was left to carry on without a father
To compound the mess in a final grief to gather
Was the death of the wife in a crash which appalled
And we wonder how the daughter survived in justice called
© Paul Warren Poetry
IT'S a lean car ... a long-legged dog of a car ... a gray-ghost eagle car.
The feet of it eat the dirt of a road ... the wings of it eat the hills.
Danny the driver dreams of it when he sees women in red skirts and red sox in his sleep.
It is in Danny's life and runs in the blood of him ... a lean gray-ghost car.
Pretty Girl in a shitty car
Headliner hanging
Tailpipe dragging
Beauty Queen of broken dreams
Had the world on string
Or so it seemed
Growing up pretty
Doesn’t create pity
It creates a single road
No one informed you
That a good life is earned
Not owed
Needed to be a Mrs
Afraid to be missed
You gave your only quality
Didn’t think you had a mind to share
But your pretty self alone
Couldn’t keep “him” there.
Made babies born with a Job
Mixing “him” and Pretty you
Instead of fulfilling your purpose
The babies became discarded trash too.
Pretty Girl now a waitress
Cleaning up other peoples messes
Cant clean up your own
Feet hurt
Ass hanging out of a small skirt
Get in your shitty car
Hoping it will start
Hoping you still have a home
Princess just wants a new car.
I have told her that hers will go far.
''Oh, it's really not cool
driving this crap to school.''
''Do I need that emotional scar? ''
''The kids will all laugh at the rust.
When we race, I'll be left in the dust!
I will save up some cash
then we'll make a mad dash
to the car dealer surely you trust''.
''He will make us a wonderful deal
and I'm sure you will know how I feel.
I will love you so much,
My siblings... I won't touch.
Just get me behind a new wheel! ''
Now she'll be cruisin in style.
She'll be happy for only awhile.
There will always be better
and we'll try hard to get her
a car that will make princess smile.
I was born for driven dirt race car's
I'm not made for pavin long roads
I ain't cut out to climb high line poles
But I'm pretty good at driven my race car's
I'm not the type to work in a bank
I'm no good at slappin on things
Do have a knack for makin motors crank, no
But I'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car's
So give  me one more lap
That's what I'm here for
I'm built for having a ball
I love the dirt race track's
'I love my rocket race car
I like it 25 laps or more
I like staring way in the back
It give me more time to come up fast
I'm too slow for workin' too fast
I don't do windows so honey don't ask
But I'm pretty good at driven my race car's
A go getter maybe I'm not
I'm not known for doin' a lot
But I do my best work out on the track
I'm pretty good at driven my race car
So give me one more lap
That's what I'm here for
I'm built for having a ball
I love the dirt race track's
I love my rocket race car
I like it 25 laps or more
I like to staring way in the back
It give me more time to come up fast
I was born for driven dirt race car's
I'm not made for pavin long roads
I aint cut out to climb high line poles
But I'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car
pretty good at driven my dirt race car's
I wasn born for driven rocket race car's
I'm not made for pavin long roads
I ain't cut out to climb high line poles
But I'm pretty good at driven my race car's
I'm not the type to work in a bank
I'm no good at slappin on things
Do have a knack for makin motors crank, no
But I'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car's
So give  me one more lap
That's what I'm here for
I'm built for having a ball
I love the dirt race track's
'I love my rocket race car
I like it 25 laps or more
I ain't much for mowin thick grass
I'm too slow for workin' too fast
But I'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car's
A go getter maybe I'm not
I'm not known for doin' a lot
But I do my best work out on the track
I'm pretty good at driven my race car
So give me one more lap
That's what I'm here for
I'm built for having a ball
I love the dirt race track's
I love my rocket race car
I like it 25 laps or more
I was born for driven rocket race car's
I'm not made for pavin long roads
I aint cut out to climb high line poles
But I'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car
pretty good at driven dirt race car's
See my car,
I am driving the car
Ask not its name and number
I have already mentioned elsewhere here.
See my car,
I am driving the car,
Controlling the steering wheel
I am driving the car,
Giving due respect to
Accelerator and brake,
I know here in this car
There is the truth called engine,
Passion and action are there
In fuel and I know all knowledge
And everything is there in tool box
Provided by the company itself.
See my car
I am going with my car
To the service center
As it is not running well
As it met an accident
Though no fault of mine,
All of a sudden it met an accident
With the rain and the sun.
Selling a Car.
When I bought the car
the dealer pointed out its good features.
Now that I’m selling the car
the dealer points out all its flaws.
My Alto looks superb and majestic,
From Maruti Udyog- ‘The talk of town! ”
With color, silky silver metallic;
My dignity will escalate on own.
Even the rich appear to go for it;
Five-geared, with mileage almost twenty-two;
And ample space for luggage; five can sit;
It is the car that every heart can woo!
It stands so splendidly in front of house,
And glows with beauty- all appreciate;
It is the car that’s loved by any spouse;
Perhaps, its cost can’t much depreciate!
With Alto, any distance, you can go;
No wonder ’tis India’s foremost car, oh!
dirt track slopes to sky
penning five hundred horses
running with thunder.
A car quite big and yet so small!
A car that’s meant for people all;
More than a two-wheeler in cost,
The Tata Nano is quite fast.
A magic car that’s safe on road;
A car that all can well afford;
Small family norm car today,
The Tata Nano’s on its way!
A car that’s caught the eyes of all;
A car that none could ever stall;
A car that’s found a place in hearts;
A car that easily too starts!
A beauty that all wish to drive,
The little car has come alive;
The Tata Nano is famous,
And modern car for all of us!
Dream-car of many that’s come true;
The car for young, old, me and you;
The car that could be number one,
The Tata Nano is great fun!
Dedicated to Mr. Rattan Tata
Copyright by Dr John Celes 4-12-2009
We came out early on that Tuesday afternoon
I didn't want to part just yet for you to be gone so soon
A cable car ride suggested, it quickly took your mind
We took a tube to Greenwich and traced around O2
No sooner than we knew it we were at the ticket office
And with oyster discounts in our hand and wristbands strapped on tight
It was not long before we took off upon our circular flight
Enclosed in glass we swept up to greyed out skies
The wind picked up and swayed us on our cable
I hoped that one such gust would place your hand in mind
But you proved to be the braver one you never moved a finger
I desperately wanted to put my hand in yours but was frightened still to do it
But it wasn't' the wind but love youknow that made we want to do it
The moment passed with a GPS joke and then onto costa coffee
I went to a party
just the other night.
The meal was atrocious
and a bad time was had.
Just to add insult to injury,
the car didn’t like it neither
being left alone out in the cold.
Therefore, when I went to start it,
it didn’t want to go.
The protest was duly noted
and a jump-start was given.
Finally, we got home
cold, tired and weak.
Went straight to bed
and could have slept for a week.
Unfortunately, I had
to get up early the next morning
for work I had to go.
I think I’ll treat the car
to a new battery this year,
so it will start first time
if the weather gets severe.
The car moved ahead
At its steady pace
One meter in front of the other
It is amazing to know
How Pierre can survive for so many years
In the middle of uncertainty if it was love or hate
The sky had begun to threaten
Very early in the morning
And the rain was pouring so strange
(dedicated to a great poet, Mark Strand)
Smokes
The driver
Smokes
The air
Feels
So fresh
With their
Smokes ;)
(Theme: Satire)
Written after seeing a man smoking while driving his car.
Obviously we all know that vehicles do contribute to air and sound pollution with their smokes and horns ;)
Time, health and weather permitting, we should always opt for walking instead of taking our car / bike / scooter or public transport esp. if the distance is short and walkable. I've always loved walking and even in freezing, pouring UK weather, I've ventured out on errands without depending on cars or buses though at times, when my health plays truant, I pamper myself with some vehicular luxury :)
You are gone. The car radio is a curse.
Hundreds of  songs, especially our
songs... remind me of you.
© Joe Fazio
The Lady of the Motor-car she stareth straight ahead;
Her face is like the stone, my friend, her face is like the dead;
Her face is like the stone, my friend, because she is “well-bred”—
Because her heart is dead, my friend, as all her life was dead.
The Lady of the Motor-car she speaketh like a man,
Because her girlhood never was, nor womanhood began.
She says, “To the Aus-traliah, John!” and “Home” when she hath been.
And to the husband at her side she says, “Whhat doo you mean?”
The Lady of the Motor-car her very soul is dead,
Because she never helped herself nor had to work for bread;
The Lady of the Motor-car sits in her sitting-room,
Her stony face has never changed though all the land is gloom.
Her motor-car hath gone to hell—the hell that man hath made;
She sitteth in her sitting-room, and she is not afraid;
Nor fear of life or death, or worse, could change her well-bred mien;
She knits socks in a stony way, and says, “Whhat doo they mean?”
The lady in her carriage sits, with cushions turning green—
And once it was a mourning-coach, and once it held a queen.
Behind a coachman and a horse too old to go to war,
She driveth to her “four o’clocks” and to her sick and poor.
And when the enemy bombards and walls begin to fall,
The Lady of the Motor-car shall stand above you all;
Amongst the strong and silent brave, and those who pray or shriek,
She’ll nurse the wounded from the grave and pacify the weak.
And if the enemy prevails, with death on every side,
The Lady of the Car shall die as heroines have died,
But if the victory remains, she’ll be what she hath been,
And, sitting in her motor-car, shall say: “
Whhat doo you mean?
”
We're away! and the wind whistles shrewd
In our whiskers and teeth;
And the granite-like grey of the road
Seems to slide underneath.
As an eagle might sweep through the sky,
So we sweep through the land;
And the pallid pedestrians fly
When they hear us at hand.
We outpace, we outlast, we outstrip!
Not the fast-fleeing hare,
Nor the racehorses under the whip,
Nor the birds of the air
Can compete with our swiftness sublime,
Our ease and our grace.
We annihilate chickens and time
And policemen and space.
Do you mind that fat grocer who crossed?
How he dropped down to pray
In the road when he saw he was lost;
How he melted away
Underneath, and there rang through the fog
His earsplitting squeal
As he went -- Is that he or a dog,
That stuff on the wheel?
The motor car is sullen, like a thing that should not be;
The motor car is master of Smart Society.
’Twas born of sweated genius and collared by a clown;
’Twas planned by Retribution to ride its riders down.
And straight for Caesar’s Column,
It runs to Caesar’s Column,
Last section, Caesar’s Column
To ride its riders down!
The motor car is shame-struck, for greed and misery,
For mad and hopeless self-lust, and the sins that need not be.
The motor car is vicious, for its conscience makes it so,
It aye would smash the victims while it runs the riders low.
And straight for Caesar’s Column,
Its goal is Caesar’s Column,
It longs for Caesar’s Column
To lay its riders low.
The motor car is maddened like a horse that’s had a fright,
The shameful day behind it and the Coming of the Night!
It flees across the country and it flees back to the town
And straight for Caesar’s Column to run its riders down.
And straight for Caesar’s Column,
What ho! for Caesar’s Column!
Hurrah! for Caesar’s Column!
To seal its riders down.
The motor car is reckless like a gambler losing fast;
The motor car’s in terror of the Future—and the Past;
The motor car is worn out and has passed Sin’s boundary by,
And is bound for Caesar’s Column where to pile its riders high.
It’s bound for Caesar’s Column
And marked for Caesar’s Column,
And doomed for Caesar’s Column
To pile its riders high.
The motor car is brainless, and scornful of all tears,
Its dust is in our faces, its giggle in our ears,
Its harsh laugh is the last laugh of the last lost soul alone,
’Tis nearing Caesar’s Column to set self-damned in stone.
Change here for Caesar’s Column!
All out for Caesar’s Column!
Past Hope—and Caesar’s Column
To lodge self-damned in stone.
I don’t know how ’twill happen, or when ’twill come to pass,
But folk shall yet pass sanely by river, tree and grass;
By homesteads and farm wagons, they’ll ride each pleasant mile,
And back from Caesar’s Column where the world went mad awhile.
And back from Caesar’s Column
With lessons from the Column;
Grown sane at Caesar’s Column
To save the world awhile.
'But do not come to Daddy,
crying, come Monday morning
expecting to pay what I offer you
right here and now, so come,
do sign the papers if you know
what's good for you and me.'
'I want to shop  around to see
what deal can be arranged
to suit me best, I must look out
for number one, surely you know,
a customer does have the right? '
'Well, once again, this deal is,
to put it bluntly, for today, and not
for any other time that follows.
I'm in a mood to help you out,
I like you, frankly and I know
that you will send me all your friends,
so trust me, Sir, I'm doing what is best
for all of us, and also, I could tell....
the truth is, that you may be, so I notice
a bit embarrassed with that old jalopy.'
'So what is the exact and final figure,
counting the trade of Cedric here,
and all the costs on road and for the Kaiser,
insurance which you kindly offered,
in other words, how much will be enough? '
'Now that's more like it, the thinking man,
you know, so many of my customers are,
to put it mildly, so ignorant, don't get me wrong,
I like them all, but it is always such a pleasure
to deal with someone who can think like you.
So, I suggest we get the papers done right now,
I'll call your banker with the final figures then,
and you go home and celebrate the deal,
no need to worry, I will handle it from here.'
Are you born to be a race car driver?
Even if not, many of you are a race traveler.
Many are ambitious, would like to beat the other,
On any cost became a winner.
When one is a winner, there are many loser,
Competition, hatred, anger & jealousy, but never laughter.
Is it worth to push for winning?
And became the most envied hated being.
how I wonder what you are.
Leaking oil everyday
being unruly going your way.
Going uphills real slow
don't pester me any more.
Am toiling as if your slave
don't forget I am so brave.
Better leave me you dude
don't fry any more my mood.
Love's fiery chariot, Delia, take
Which Vulcan wrought for Venus' sake.
Wings shall not waft thee, but a flame
Hot as my heart--as nobly tame:
Lit by a spark, less bright, more wise
Than linked lightnings of thine eyes!
Seated and ready to be drawn
Come not in muslins, lace or lawn,
But, for thy thrice imperial worth,
Take all the sables of the North,
With frozen diamonds belted on,
To face extreme Euroclydon!
Thus in our thund'ring toy we'll prove
Which is more blind, the Law or Love;
And may the jealous Gods prevent
Our fierce and uncontrouled descent!
With the gift of the gab they would talk their way out of hell
These used car sales people they know how to sell
On their selling ability their jobs are at stake
The more cars they do sell the more commission they do make
On any deals they clinch they have never lost
And your trust on such people can come at a cost
The more cars they sell the more money they get paid
A hard job to succeed in the used car trade,
Shy and sensitive used car sales people one might say are rare
To sell one a car no effort they do spare
They have to sell cars or their boss them will fire
And other used car yard owners as car sales people them will not hire
The more cars they sell the greater is their pay
So to sell you a car they try every which way.
while driving my car late evening
from school
when the rains fall heavily
on the streets
looking like deserted
i talk to myself
unceasingly
like we are very close friends
and now for the first
time in 20 years meet
for this historic reunion
i greet myself with such a warm
hello ric
this is ric meet ric
how you have not changed for years
you still look wonderful tonight
and how are things doing with you?
i am fine and doing well
and i am at home with myself
progressing in my career
and happy with what
i have and what i am
looking forward
to more excitements
of my life
like you do too
with your life
ric to ric
the talk goes on and on
and then the rain stops
and then i finally arrive
and honk my car
to this house
where the gate opens
all too quickly
with anticipation
like this joy
of an emotion
the lights are all on
brightly they shine
on the glass
of the car
i am home
at last
The window's blurry,
The odometer's broke,
​The tires are bare;
Who's driving this car?
The seats are saggy
From long time use,
The rear-view's broken;
Who's driving this car?
It knocks down the road
Toward the next bone yard,
And it can't get far;
Who's driving this car?
Once it was new,
Best thing on the road,
But now it's just old;
So who's driving this car?
I'M driving this thing,
And this car is ME,
And it's all worn out,
But I make it work.
If I didn't have it,
I'd be a-foot,
A fool on the pavement;
In fact, just stuck.
So I praise this car
And it's wobbly ride-
And I'm gosh darn grateful
That I'm still inside.
But yet I don't think women truly like it
when another woman speaks her mind.
because part of her wishes she had done it-
and the other part is envious of the affection
she receives, the respect, more frankly given
from the opposite sex.
There are few things that bother as much
as to look for you car
and almost to count the other car’s,
when you come round a corner
and to be without a car in Pretoria
and to know the fear
that it is stolen.
There are fewer things that bother as much
as when two of your cars get stolen
and something is wrong with the insurance of both
and to be without any car in Pretoria
and to tell everyone that you call
of your predicament
and no Police ever being able to find any car
and every similar car that drives by
looks to you like the stolen one
and the robbers are now much better off than you.
There are few things that bother as much
as to walk
and stand with a hand stretched out
and the worst is to tell other people
and to be without a car in Pretoria
and to read comprehension in their eyes.
you sit inside the car
as i drive on this busy road
in the city, on some dangerous
intersections, and you hold your hair
with your left hand
leaning on the mirror
seeing the flow of people
on the pedestrian lane
and you quip,
why do you love a stupid
woman like me?
i focus myself on the road
and it begins to rain
and people are running
everywhere seeking
for shelter
you ask,
do you really love me?
i am sorry
putting you on this mess.
i am really sorry,
tears begin to roll
from your eyes
the rain goes heavily on
the glass and i cannot clearly
see the road
it is dark and i turn on the
front lights and drive
the car slowly on the side
of the road. I stop
for a while,
it is hazy, i said.
and i just love to kiss you.
Leuconoë, don’t ask, we never know, what fate the gods grant us,
whether your fate or mine, don’t waste your time on Babylonian,
futile, calculations. How much better to suffer what happens,
whether Jupiter gives us more winters or this is the last one,
one debilitating the Tyrrhenian Sea on opposing cliffs.
Be wise, and mix the wine, since time is short: limit that far-reaching hope.
The envious moment is flying now, now, while we’re speaking:
Seize the day, place in the hours that come as little faith as you can.
CARPE DIEM spells MAD RECIPE,
DREAM EPIC to PIERCE DAM, mind's waters flow
as DICE REMAP REMADE PIC, help to see
how anagrams shift focus, need to grow.
Thus what to some 'improvement' may appear
is but perspective, glass half empty, filled,
or hardships role reversed by change of gear,
self-pity sapped, snapped, joy mapped: beans are spilled.
So seize the day, in tune with all around,
both silence, sound, 'hope, faith and trust' are bars
to open mind that fain would leave the ground
of caterpillar, butterfly the stars.
True happiness turns yen of citizen
to zen, yins yang, yangs yin, springs flow from pen.
morrow is a promise
today is here
seize it, seize it, seize it
should I live or hope to live?
every man dies, not everyman lives
in living, we fail to live
nature offers  day
so it's lived, not preserved
oh come dearest chums!
gather moola
this night
every other night, let's
sip jiggles of scotch, fume cigars
pluck damsels
oh come sweetest!
let's cover the skies, oceans too
canoodle come dusk
delay not, our stuff will not endure
embrace morrow's promise
but celebrate now's joy
life well lived is suffice
savour life's minutes
dwell in the moment
NOW is everything
Carpe diem CNY
Looking forward to celebrate
This blissful year of the dog
Another Chinese New Year
Is round the corner
Happy
Joyful
There could be no tomorrow if...
But our theme; 'No Limit.'
Free to celebrate
Cheers everybody
Next CNY?
Maybe, maybe not.
Apollo plays his golden flute,
While children play in the trees, and we celebrate nature.
While children play in the trees, and we love every creature.
Here 'Carpe Diem' is the law, here 'Carpe Diem' is absolute.
A toast to us! Today is all that we have.
A toast to us! Human life is a fragile noon.
A toast to us! We will die soon.
A toast to us! From eternity we're save.
Apollo plays a sad serenade
Finally, eternal sleep came
There is no one to blame,
'Cause our lives shine and now they fade!
somewhere cancer is lurking
cancer is eating its way
where or when
don't know
caire pe diem is the theme.
It was a very long journey
Long enough to make one sleep on the way
But as brave as I was, I didn’t have a nap
Guess why? I walked it till my legs ached to my laps
I became so tired and exhausted
Behold, the journey was not over yet
I decided to do otherwise
By crossing the road to the other side
Immediately, a car parked at my front
I didn’t hesitate, so I entered
I alone at the back seat and no one else
“Alas! A transformation has taken place”, I said to myself
In a commanding but polite way, I uttered
“Please, take me to so and so”
The driver ignited the engine in haste
And zoomed off with the speed of my taste
I noticed someone else in front
Definitely he wasn’t the driver
He was putting on a uniform
An army officer he is with a gun
Someone driving me?
With an army officer in front?
And I alone at the back seat?
I must be a very prominent personnel then!
As we drove by the road
Pedestrians waved their hands at me
But their faces were not familiar at all
It was the driver who then waved in return
I still felt like a super star going fot a show
Or rather, crème de la crème  of the society
This mustn’t be a dream, I prayed
But the journey was still not over yet
All of a sudden, the car halted
I was puzzled, for this wasn’t my destination
I said nothing so as to maintain decorum
Then, someone walked to the door and opened it
For me? I thought
My ego began to bloom
Immediately, he jumped in with others
I became perplexed with my mouth open
The seat became so tight, but the journey continued
Was I day-dreaming or what?
Attacked by mobs or a gang robbery?
With a security officer in the car?
No, they were minding their own business
Suddenly the car stopped for a second time
The driver turned to me and asked for my fare
I was still contemplating if or if not to pay
Till the officer gave me a scary look
I quickly complied, dipped my hand into my pocket and paid
Hurriedly, I jumped out
I peered at the top of the car
Lo and behold, it was a taxi
Indeed I was dreaming
A dream I longed for to come true
And the journey continued.
Carpe diem __ life of a butterfly.
A butterfly with broken wings still flapping.
On the ground, another rotting.
Carpe diem, brief, briefness of life.
Carpe diem life of butterflies.
Such briefness, a butterfly would not know.
Butterfly is the reason.
Think of butterflies
Think carpe diem.
CARPE DIEM
L.E.S - Live Every Second
One life -
Enjoy it or suffer
Destroy it or prosper
Follow your internal passion, live out every second
Swallow your mental prison, love without any dead-end
Treasure what's precious, pressure away what's malicious
Measure your worth, through your eyes
Seek pleasure on earth, know what's true from the lies
Peace, be with, your mind
Release, to its pith, what's keepin' you blind
Forgive your mistakes, sieve away past aches
You are not perfect, yet, you are not a reject
Be positive, estrange hatred from reality
Act causative, be the change in society
Smile, sadness is futile, life goes a long mile
Do not despair, prepare for fear to disappear
Grow old and watch the beauty of life unfold
Live in harmony, communally, maintain autonomy
Control your destiny, write your own history
The world is yours
Carpe Diem, seize the moment.
I am not a Prince Hamlet
And you must not leave me
Like an Ophelia.
I am not an Othello, the Moor,
And you must not die
Like a Desdemona.
Rather with a Carpe Diem love
I am here to you.
Like a Coy Mistress do not delay
Because my heart is aching for you.
Carpe diem makes my heart race
Carpe diem drives me to pursue
Carpe diem chases me on with reigns
This 'carpe diem' is driving me crazy
keeps me in a daze, that rat race
I must race.
Carpe diem reminds me
the light will soon be no more.
I looked around and it was the day,
That again will never come;
I could not help it but to sway,
Away from what would make me glum.
I thought that I've been granted life,
And so did life take but for granted;
I thought that time was yet rife,
And had my soul by life enchanted.
My life has passed before my eyes,
As what's alive was just no more;
I've never thought of any goodbyes,
And still of faith was but unsure.
I've seen the green swiftly fly,
As did the gray and too the blue;
I've felt all beauty at once die,
And couldn't stand that morbid view!
I've looked above and did scream,
At a god that there might not be:
'Look down on this scarlet stream,
And speak but of immortality! '
Though life may but immortal seem,
Whilst everything else ceases to be;
It could be nothing more but a dream,
And on the waking verge's just uncertainty!
I woke up thinking of:
'What if the world ends today?
You've had much mirth but it's not enough! '
Then hoped more mirth won't make me stray!
AD LEUCONOEN
Horace: Book I, Ode 13.
_'Tu ne quoesieris, scire nefas-'_
It is not right for you to know, so do not ask,
Leuconoe,
How long a life the gods may give or ever we
are gone away;
Try not to read the Final Page, the ending
colophonian,
Trust not the gypsy's tea-leaves, nor the
prophets Babylonian.
Better to have what is to come enshrouded
in obscurity
Than to be certain of the sort and length of
our futurity.
Why, even as I monologue on wisdom and
longevity
How Time has flown! Spear some of it!
The longest life is brevity.
Tick tock, how time does fly,
slipping through my fingers;
wasting my days till I die.
The morning tides, a blessing;
I should seize the day.
Another day leaving me guessing,
if time itself would stray.
Yet my hours foretold of that of bore;
I lose myself within.
Many times of yore.
Many times of then.
So I gaze upon the clock;
the hands slowly pass,
slower with the hours flock.
I without a cause;
I feel lost with time
For me, time does not pause-
when I long for sublime.
I admit I am weak,
I am only a man;
whom were as bleak,
whom without a plan.
Lost in life and in time,
without a reason for a reason;
the only truest crime.
The echo of the ticking clock-
cries out, mocking me;
grasping time by the stock,
yet still I refuse to see.
Confusion reigns over me,
I know not my desire;
whether to die or to see,
whether time cast out my fire.
My fire, the urge to live on,
through the days of down;
the hours marks my dawn.
I am blessed with a gift of a new day;
it should not go to waste.
Being as it may,
I shouldn't have haste.
I've taken life for granted,
it is just that;
this life I lived is canted,
like time itself begat.
Life is fragile, I shall not stray;
time is only a memory;
I should seized the day.
Carpe diem
Has long gone today
Another day will be born
Tomorrow
Carpe diem
Sieze the day
As I meditate
Things appears to be out of control
Yet, I shall still pursue and overtake
Anyway
Carpe diem
Is what I say
After all
Saper vedere
As I realize
that it is
mind over matter
Which helps
along the way?
I hope you remember
This pretty life’s rule
Carpe Diem,
Mon Amour
Because everything
What exists between
Such a whiles as this
With you and me
Is just an empty space
To fill and feed our souls
By memories and hopes
For the next
Miracle of love
Maybe these are just a few
Whiles like this
Which makes us to believe
That it’s really worth to live
Our bodies are too tight
And minds are far apart
You can't depend just on dread
You'd better open up your heart instead
Carpe Diem - that's what you need
You won't have the same happy days indeed
Each second lost will cost you a lot
You want to have fun but cannot
Carpe diem means to pluck the day,
cherish it as a flower so lovely
Then share it or just give it away
to a human in great need of beauty:
A bit nicer gets that little life of mine
Whenever i manage to give away some time
Carpe diem 'Seize the Day' How bold...
Seize The Day. How does one do that?
Carpe diem, there are days, that like a
thief in the night, sneak up behind me,
and SEIZE ME!
Carpe diem...Seize The Day, how wonderful,
when there are days, that are within my
grasp...and then...I seize them!
Ahhh, now that I have them, I sometimes wonder,
what the hell do I do with that sized day, now?
I always was of the opinion that one should only
size the days, that they have a purpose for.
Now if I planed to stay indoors all day, what
would be the point of seizing the day?
On the other hand, to plan a lovely day, with
someone you care about-now that's a day to size!
Trust me, do not size any day, that you know not
what to do with. For if you do, you're dragging this
day around with you, not knowing what the hell
to do with it.
In all respects to the latins, who coined that
phrase, Carpe Diem, 'size the day, ' most of
them had no idea, what to do, with the day they sized!
Now the next time, someone utters those famous
words, Carpe Diem, 'size the day, ' look them
square in the eye and ask,
'If you size this day, what are you going to do
with it?
© Joe Fazio
Yesterday is missing,
Like a lost treasure in a city,
The dancefloor I tread in a pity.
Forgetting that I am in Philly,
My thoughts wander in a beating,
Time passes and it is but fleeting,
But still, yesterday is missing.
This life has become a blur,
Remind me, did I not come from far?
Wasn't yesterday to my life a support bar?
I feel lost, my mind tossed, like a deluded sir.
My life wagon forgot where it has come from so far,
Who I was, today tries but to mar,
Everything said to me now will be a slur.
Should I think of it as for the best?
Perfection is what my life has had as quest.
Stranded in who I am, should I think of this as a test?
Or should I fight from this trough to the crest?
My east is lost; how should I find my west?
I am being told my present I should not detest,
And while I think I can, I still think it not the best
A fly passes by and its minuteness I see,
To me it speaks of how to be,
"My dear to your status I advise you cling,
Before long, riddled your shape will seem,
Ductility soon your bones will feel,
And yesterday not being here will not like a worry,
But here is today and now, you are in it.
Life is so Precarious...
So Tenuous...
So Fleeting...
I would be happy right  now...
Just to open my eyes...
And SEIZE the Day...
(November 11,2010 Wausau, Wisconsin)
(c)  Copyright 2010 by Christine A Kysely, All Rights Reserved
The first night, the best night,
you had me at hello.
We went to your room,
and it was like I'd been there before.
My heart raced, my smile glowed.
We pulled out the cards,
and opened a beer.
Strip poker was not my strength.
Behind a pillow I hid,
behind my wall.
Your lips, my lips,
touched, my heart raced, beating louder then a drum.
I wanted your hands on me,
my hands on you.
We layed on your bed,
and talked long into the morning.
Our bodies embracing,
rubbing.
We didn't need sex,
to enjoy ourselves.
You sparked my heart strings that night,
my walls shifted.
Each time, everytime,
they come down a little more.
Yours are high,
but crumbling along side mine.
Don't let go my friend.
You and I are quite the pair, you know.
I would not shower with just anyone,
nor would I whisper my sweet nothings.
The things I do with you,
I hardly ever share.
If I was willing to try, are you?
If i put my heart on my sleeve,
would you take care?
How am I to believe you, how am I to love you,
and not think you'll be the same, as my first love?
My first love, my hardest love,
my deepest love.
I've never felt such pain,
I could not bare another such as that.
But for you, I'd be willing to try.
Do you believe me when I say, I care for you?
I do.
More then anything, I want to love you,
I want to be there for you.
Can I have your heart?
Share your thoughts with me.
My hearts racing,
Carpe Diem.
Leuconoe
do not put the questions and look out to find
when it is to come my or yours end of life
that which Gods have given us.
It is impossible to find out.
So do not try even to tell it through the babylonian zodiacs.
It is better to endure whatever is to come,
the many winters or this only one
if it is the last  Jupiter has prescribed us,
the one just now turbulenting the thyrrenean sea.
Be wise, prepare the mixture of wine,
dwindle the great hopes
to be analogous to the short time in front
pick up each day
[like picking flowers up]
and do not trust the day to come after.
Seize the moment when the sun shines,
When people ccan only think of happy times.
Birds are singing,
Babies laughing,
Everythings calm and stays in line.
Cherish this moment, fore when it ends,
The world is broken and filled with sin.
People dying,
Babies crying.
The war continues and there's pain again.
Come stroll with me to the top of Blue Jay hill
Escort me upon this adventurous journey now
We will waltz on the platform of that ancient mill
Free yourself from the city, I can show you how
I will name a creek and a flower or two just for you
This will be our enchanted land, if only for a day
Rule one in this land is to do as you wish to do
Rule two in the kingdom is to cast your cares away
That burden that you carry simply must be tossed
The weight of pain and regret is too heavy here
We will find ourselves by deliberately getting lost
Use a Sycamore branch to joust away your fears
Greet your first sunrise through your watering eyes
Your warming cheeks caressed by those welcoming rays
Surrender to your passions and you will be surprised
The time is now and not just 'one of these days'.
Go on and forth,  seize the day.
When the tongue is afraid to say.
At that time to take an extra mile,
Let yourself out,  for that little while.
There's no harm in taking a leap downward, .
When it acts as your force to go on, forward.
When the world is trying to pull you down,
Be oblivion,  cause it's the fight for the crown.
The crown,  carved for the greatest glory.
When you get there, writing your own heroic story,
You will be the pronounced winner of the game called life,
As,  to get there, you have fought the battle,  to end the deadliest strife.
And that day,  you shall be called the true winner,
For truly interpreting the words of the leader.
And, so,  shall the honor of the greatest never fade away,
As all shall hail,  Carpe Diem, Seize the day! !
Seize the day and do not delay
Or else there be a worse price to pay
For it is your life to waste not mine
I am but a man nothing divine
Be prepared to bear the worst
But just remember to be stronger then curse
I will live my life by this motto
From this day forth and tomorrow
Carpe Diem be the phrase
If every man lived by that we'd know the way
Life is meant to live in the ''moment'',
tomorrow will arrive if tomorrow should,
yesterday are moments lost in real time.
Memories are images for Life's fortress,
re-runs from times non-negotiable motion,
running fast, and never looking back.
Carpe-diem, a mantra so despised by they-
who prioritize possessions over providence,
and mock the Kind in Heart as ignorants.
Life, in the scope of length and worth-
nary be measured...by guess or presage;
all we have is all that's meant to be,
in moments to cherish till death be ours.
Time no longer recalls past dreams
Now all memories in purple hazes
Time continues in it's chosen way
A crystal ball won't turn the pages.
Comfort empty spaces in your heart
Time does not' wait, seize the chance
Golden opportunity will wait for none
Life's journey can be a merry dance.
The time to do and be is always now
Let fate decide be it north or south
Regard the future with anticipation
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Be swayed not by the highest bidder
On your life's trek, long or short
You'll find chances flowing at random
Carpe diem success can't be bought.
Don't dwell in shadows of discontent
Dreams come true to those that will
Questions asked should be answered
Yours will be if you climb that hill.
Useless ash upon the hearth
That looks out on my soul.
The life, the light, the cheery warmth,
Expires and now lays cold.
That pleasant snap, that glowing flame,
Passed warmth to reverie.
And though my life may seem the same,
It’s not the same to me.
The flame is gone, the fuel is spent,
As embers fade away.
We sadly wonder where it went,
Our youth and blissful days.
3/14/05
Get up! , Get up! ,
Outta the old fart sack!
Too long have you been
Lying on your back.
Arise, arise and meet the sun
You lazy stupid son of a gun.
You’ve been loafing there
Four hours or more
No wonder your back
Is getting sore.
Do you want to sleep
Your life away?
Get up, get up,
And greet the day.
No more rolling in the hay
There’s beer to drink
And bills to pay.
Let me take another tack
Drag your ass out of that rack.
Don’t stay there another minute
The day is yours and you can win it.
So up, up, up and carpe some diem
It’s time to cause a bit of mayhem.
Do not linger any more
Time to be up and out the door.
It’s reveille, reveille,
Up all hands!
When you sail to foreign lands
Get on your hocks and grab your socks
Is what they used to say to me
When sailing on the deep blue sea.
But that was in the days of yore
And now I’m beached and on the shore.
And have to make a decent  living
Life can be so unforgiving.
So it’s up, up, up,
And off to work
The daily grind
I dare not shirk
I have to make a lot of money
To buy some nice things for my honey.
Life is such a cruel rat race
It’s hard to keep up with the pace,
Time to set the world on fire
If it’s to greatness you aspire.
Another day, another dollar
Will have to wait
Til I hear you holler,
Get up you lazy Ess Oh Bee
There’s worlds to conquer
Things to see.
But all that stuff won’t go away
That is all I have to say.
It will wait another day.
I’ll just have to flunk this test
So it’s back to bed
To get more rest
So I say, to my great sorrow
Maybe I’ll get up tomorrow
I will not prevaricate
I will just procrastinate
As already it is way too late
So I’ll just lie here, don’t have a doubt
And don’t let the door hit you in the ass
On your way out!
As the sun heads south
Go to the beach
Swim in the ocean
Build big sand castles
Cos summer and its shadow
Will soon be erased by time
Like words written
On sandy beaches
© 2016
Behind every goodbye there is a hope of new hi and
Behind every hi there is a pain of bidding bye sooner or later
The moments of life lies in between that short span
Spread your arms if you long for a hug
Open your heart if it aches for love
Dance and sing until the rain stops
Kiss passionately, if not your beloved at least the wind
Enjoy the beauty of nature in countless ways
Take chances and dare to fail, you will have the second
Forever and never-ending too comes to an end, Wait not
Until the moment arrives, seize and live it.
Ephemeral eyes of the Eternal soul
Never cease to seek that goal
Whether it be on Mount Olympus' zenith
Or in the depths of Hades' lair just beyond the river Styx.
How could it, something momentary
Strive for something that's wanted by so many?
How could I reach that lofty peak
Without performing an impossible feat?
I guess it all ends in faith, belief in the absurd
I think I just have to want it bad enough
To make the whole cosmos revolve
And make me realize, do what I Could.
There is so little time to spare
In a world that whizzes round
At the speed of light, the giddy light
Blinding the eyes and mind.
Snatch each moment of the day;
Steal each breath from the night
Before death comes on silent feet
And sweeps you out of sight.
There’s no longer even one of Carpe Diem’s rosebuds for you and me,
time made it into dust, and nothing;
I don’t know where your youth or beauty might wander now,
or your lovely smile, the lily color of your look,
no one will tell you where in the universe I live,
but in your moments of serenity perhaps,
after a pleasure or other,
a speeding image will pass by
of what you and I had together in an already distant time:
that feeling,
illusory and entranced, where the past seems to come alive again
ah, it’ll be so fast that sleep will close your eyes,
because dawn will make you again young and happy,
and that rose transformed into dust,
frozen flame, or fragrance just gone
will be the forgetting.
(Translated from Spanish by Nick W. Hill)
When you expected the sun to shine but the rain poured instead do not feel frustrated, seize the moment to take respite from the burdens of the day. Be delighted that the foilage are happy to be sprinkled freely;
When you feel old and notice the luster of youth lacks sparkle, don't worry be happy.
Seize the moment and take pride that aging is rewarded with wisdom which the young ones will achieve many years far away;
When you failed to achieve something you thought was designed for you, do not regret or be weary. Destiny had align you for what you are today, seize the moment and shout
victory;
When you drop or forget your shopping list, do not attempt to make another one. Seize the moment and enjoy a shopping spree once in a blue moon while you can;
When you think you are strange or eccentric person, do not feel outcast. There are
millions of us with oddity who are kind hearted free spirited Homo Sapiens. Seize the moment and wear your crown as King or Queen of Oddballs Par Excecellence;
CARPE DIEM, Seize the moment whatever life confronts you. For this moment is like a river you can never step twice. Treat your moments like a poetry in motion where into the depthness of your heart and soul, you and only you, can decipher the meaning behind the rhymes and rhythm.
As we grow up, we learn that even like one person that wasnt
suppose to even not let you down probably will. You will have
your heart broken probably more then once and its harder every time.
You'll break hearts too, so remember how it felt wen urs was broken.
You'll fight wi your best friend, You; ll blame a new love for things an
old one did. You'll cry cuz time is passing by too fast, and you'll eventually lose someone youe love. So take too many pictures, laugh
too much, and love like you never been hurt because every sixty seconds you spend upset is a minute of happiness you; ll
never get back! ! ! !
At any moment in this lifetime,
There’s a tragedy ahead.
We don’t know where each path will lead,
In mere seconds, we could be dead.
There’ll be surprises around every corner,
And of course there’ll be wrong turns and dead-ends.
Data won’t help us in the future,
It merely tells us where we’ve been.
With so many people around you,
There will be no certainty.
All it will take is just one person,
To redirect history.
We must live each day like it’s our last;
We mustn’t stop and ask ourselves “why? ”
Do whatever your heart desires,
And in your dreams, reach toward the sky.
Don’t waste one single instant,
Valuable that they are.
But most of all, though it may seem far off,
It may not be all that far.
Ever so slowly the great wheel of life turns
Mother Earth smiles as we all scurry about
Searching for this and that
But what is it that we want….
A bigger Teepee?
Or another concrete road
or maybe a larger TV
Some even refuse to keep score
While others long for what they had
Yet most keep thinking they want more
jasmine sends
its mindblowing
fragrance, allure
before it drops
to the ground
stepped on
and crushed
the pretty lass
picks her best
to cloth her years
colouring them with
dreams, excitements,
love, heartbreaks and all
before she loses her greatest asset
lined with lines that spread cancerous like spears
to stab at the heart
grandma's wedding pic
so dreamy her eyes
the man holding tight at the waist
beefing up her best years
jasmine sends its scent to the wind
an innocent pretty lass praying for love to come
inspired by
Carpe Diem
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
O stay and hear! your true-love's coming
That can sing both high and low;
Trip no further, pretty sweeting,
Journey's end in lovers' meeting-
Every wise man's son doth know.
What is love? 'tis not hereafter;
Present mirth hath present laughter;
What's to come is still unsure:
In delay there lies no plenty, -
Then come kiss me, Sweet and twenty,
Youth's a stuff will not endure.
William Shakespeare
Inspiration's spent cartridge, having shot its insight bolt from out of the blue out of sight, hangs, bridge ridge ego echo kidding between indifferent and indignant, apparently almost borderline indigent in suspended animation, arrested as if Time and Space had conspired to offset kinetic energy oversight aspiring to fire the Ages, to dissolve need for conceptual anchors and thereby solve descriptions of descriptions of inside/outside interdependant fractal interface tracings pacing the space outline of straight line meta-mode mind-sets while awaiting the meeting mutating mate to mating with itself.
Pivot and pillow wo[l]rd challenge tenets of Ti[m]e and P[l]ace, ful[l]crum[b]s of the soul's immortality, seeking to block the spirit's fleeting winking inking thinking linking greeting shrinking within itself.
A state me[a]ntal line, desperate to [t]race light, as if its existence depended upon its s[p]eed, soars, curving, arching through the marching universe attempting to reach, underscore, and underline itself.  Light quark sparks affect all levels of cosmic consciousness until the circle reforms an image impression expression of universal harmony.
Emotions long to [l]ink the pages of the Present, intertwining Past and Future, and, in letters large as life, decipher themselves, decode the genius or gene I us emoticons so near, and yet so far. The door of insight and enlightenment is ever ajar, although it often seems too narrow to those who ephemerally flicker through their three score years and ten.
Up and over, to where, hitting, the lead layers of primary consciousness, 'wait' changed state as weight dissolved, and led away from the temptation of falling back on the memory's backwash flashback switchbacking and side tracking up and down upon a semi colon black background, back to and from basics, a-muse-sing contradiction in terms, as the bridge between Whence and Wither, Cause and Effect suddenly spanned the echo relay race of Eternity's comings and goings, ebbings and flowings, knowing and unknowing as the cycle geared up and peered/appeared over hair-splitting layers of primary unconsciousness.
The sleeper seeks to wake, awakening unlooked for in this temporal  continuum. Fake break takes time out for its own sake without making flaking rhyme. The chronological water shed the logical and fed from Chronos' legendary meal, taking from the Gods from which he himself once partook while spinning topsy-turvy among the blue and green rings around Saturn's void.
Kernel, unrooted from the inner recesses of the mind, that dark fertile area where creativity restlessly and relentlessly anticipates release, bursts into nut gut activity.  Nevertheless, innovation is considered cancerous by those who their inner selves refute, or fear to know.
The universal soul awaits inspiration to send sap soaring, outpouring from core ring at all levels.  Tendrils tentatively touch, tenderly tease to deracinate, sensate and sate the tortured synapses of the spirit. Explosion of consciousness calls all, especially itself, into question.
Warp and weft, bereft of references, dance a double helix under the sum of understanding, st[r]anding both apart from and a part of the hole that leads the whole into and out from itself.
Truth's essential essence reflects prismatically and chromatically upon all aspects of awareness, the soul works on the Will to redefine the Way as harmony and chaos complete each other as cosmic and karmic interplay evolve revolving around each other.
The sleeper wakes, works on the Will, finds, refines, redefines and realigns the Way, which, in its turn, underlines individual inability to assign its paradoxical convergent_seas to seize the day, given that among the English anagrams for CARPE DIEM include PRICE MADE, PRIME ACED, EPIC DREAM, ACME PRIDE, to DIME CAPER? MAD RECIPE, I MAP CREED, AM PIERCED, REMAP DICE!
Borderline inspiration bridges ego echo… nowhere, everywhere, wear the same surround.
Seize the Day
Use it well
Join the fray
Be compelled
Add some color
Make it glow
Give a holler
Let it show
Avoid the hearse
Don’t give up
Be the first
At sun up
it’s that
sweat soaked
moment
gripped in
the firm fist
of apprehension
when everything
seems equally
insignificant
except for the
heart in her chest
that moves you
in torrents
and
that burning heart
in your chest that
has finally finished
convalescing
and is ready
to be conquered
again
Life is a grab bag,
Never asks that it be fair.
There are no guarantees
anywhere.
Plus and minus, a measure
of talent
And perhaps you make it
on balance.
As for the good life
syndrome,
You lose some; you win some.
Life is a grab bag
No refund, no exchange,
Just a self limited range.
Born into a time a place,
You consume time, expand
space,
Grabbing all you can
of life's repast.
Carpe Diem while the
daylight lasts.
when you spend your life fearing death
you'll spend your death hating life
carpe diem
drunk and alone
puts me in a zone
story of my life
being born
bordem
complication growing
medication
mutilation
marijuana< br>long rides in a worn out car
not knowing where you are
confusion
love
hate
finding my gate
traveling
welcome home... get out of my house
trailer park fun
waiting for the sun
debts and bets
walking the line
insanity is yours
but freedom is mine
Forgetting it all
Flying away
Standing tall
Going my own way
To not have a name
To not have a thought
To stop playing the game
To never get caught
Escape the world and fly away
Carpe Diem
Seize the day
The cool breeze of the dawn
with the slim sunlight,
Followed by the glaring sunshine
the chirping of birds, the song of cuckoo,
What a fresh morning sight to view!
The silent afternoon,
The calm warm air,
The noise of the swaying leaves
A subtle song heard from a far off place
What a peaceful noon away from the usual rat race!
Seated by the seashore
The sight of the fishing boats and ships in the middle of the sea
The waves trying to get on the land, retrace and come again
The sea shells coming along with the water to the shore
Worth an evening to adore!
A gaze at the night sky
The crescent moon
The twinkling stars
If a shooting star also gives way
What a pleasant sight to end the day!
I would long to have a day like this
The soft haze of a spring day
The red fire on a long winters evening
To submerge in this dream land
For a day be freed from the routine errand!
So Come, Lets sing our songs
Dream our dreams
Hope our hope and
Pray our prayer
with a sense of Carpe Diem.
As we live, day by day
Our hopes, our dream’s slip away,
Why not seize the day?
And say goodbye to yesterday,
Grab hold its time to fly!
Take your dreams and let them shine
“So take too many pictures,
Laugh too much,
Forgive freely and love like you’ve never been hurt”
There is only so much time,
To say what needs to be said,
But you don’t have forever
No matter how much you may pray
So live every moment of this day,
Say goodbye to your lifelong fears
“Because every second you spend angry,
Or upset is a moment of happiness you can never get back”
So live with no excuses,
And love with no regrets
Just do what your heart says.
Its carpe deim baby
Why not give it a try?
Seize the day, for yesterdays are gone
And tomorrows are yet to be
Seize the day, for you are here
Grasp the treasure that you see
Seize the day, seize the day
Before it vanishes in the mists of yore
Seize the day for once it goes
It won’t come back no more
All these voices, where do they come from?
The wind blows, and I do not now your source.
You take me with you in spite of my will
On each journey, who directs my course?
Not love, not life, not even death itself
Like a fallen feather death slowly unfolds.
I am here today but gone tomorrow
Where to, and who cast the final moulds?
Some high flyers, the spine from their back disappears,
While others come crashing down in pieces and die.
I know fate does not wait on my acts or me,
Who writes this final verse -is it really I?
"Carpe diem quam minimum credula postero"
Horace words fall silent on my deaf ears
Youth ambition blinds the daylight bats
And lonely nights are doubts fallen fears.
I leave the Gods out from this equation
Math and algebra are not my strongest token.
My beating heart is my rhyming in question
My heart's harp strings are old but not broken.
"What remains of us is love'" I wholeheartedly embrace,
Such love foretold is for some is a fool's gold
They went searching for love but found its doors
Locked behind triple chains blackened with mould.
I fess up, I confess, this was their test, not my test,
And they failed miserably to find true love and to recover.
Seize the moment and go for the pot of gold - is their gold standard-
But not my cup of tea, I prefer to be content as a poetry lover.
January 10,2013-
Copyright Leaking Pen 2013
Rev Nov 10th   2014
Blow high, blow low!
No longer borrow
Care of tomorrow:
Take joy of life, and let care go!
Daar ginds staat een roos
stom en dor en boos
haar bladeren verdord
de wind die haar wat port.
Je kunt het haast horen
de doornen van venijn
daar staat ze wat verloren
verdoofd  en niet te smoren.
maar binnen daar klopt
nog een hart rood en klein
dat zou nog wel even
een bloem willen zijn.
Madrason 10-11-2013
**************
Today is a day like no-other
Today is a very special day
So what ever you do
be it the dream you pursue
don't let it slip away
Never again will this day commence
And will be hence forth known in the past of tense.
Fide Literis
Why live today for a better after life?
Why waste moments for a fate uncertain?
We've been granted  this existence.
So shall we bow out before the final curtain?
Live today like there is no tomorrow.
For tomorrow does not promise heaven or hell.
There is no paradise or lakes of fire.
And if there was how can you tell?
Live with pride, realise your dreams
and don't waste time on foolish fate.
Because if you die before your wake
are you sure you'll see a pearly gate?
For those who dedicate to follow
rules in the tomes of the manipulative
even if you live in sin
does your God not promise to forgive?
So are we to dine with Gods?
Well I don't not know.
But I refuse to pay pennance
to a landlord who does not show.
I am only assured one life to live
and waste it I shall never.
For I chose to be great today
a goal from which I will not sever.
You can keep Gods and Allah's
You can pray to your invisible friends.
You can prepare for a mythical tomorrow.
But it's in today I shall ascend.
Years've passed. Hate and distrust expired.
Your synapses turn to something akin to wood.
You motor's slowing nicely, as it should-
Frankly, you're more or less healthy, love, but tired
Tired having seen so many kinds of folly, learning as you
Did, all spring from the same rood:
Genuine Greed, imaginary Need-
Awful, loving, now, all points of view
Awful, loving all, now, clothed or nude.
Necessary, illness, now, and good-
Even your teeth's, which presently grow forward!
God, an indemnity, as you trudge death's doorward.
All you had you now admit, indeed,
But having, now, admit no longer need.
Swift comes the opportunity
On wings of chance sublime
We ought not to waste it in vain
May it not come again, the other time?
So grab it by any luck
Let it not be slipped loose
Master your fear, hone your senses
Moment you wait for, comes true.
That red carpet half-way between
my lip and desire,
a bunch of stars at e'ery step of the way
to collect by the sea ashore;
of laurel wreath thy myrtle crown
that crow's quill beside,
of plumed hat on knees in ruffled feathers,
a phantom of chalice wings
under the canopy of a hut:
this world in thy presence alone
to a land of fairies abides,
along the pavement of cow parsley;
a foul fawning bay at my door
of unnerved blood in vein,
oft bewails the night through hurtlings of past woe:
e'ery flower upon a barren heath of ages that are dead
from out of the blues in still waters,
agoing, agoing to that day of unaltered eye,
thy gilded monument astounds in modern electra.
(C)     Naveed Khalid
Copy Rights (C)     2014.
All Rights Reserved.
Date Created: Saturday, December 27,2014 1: 19: 33 PM
A certain formula on Carpe Diem’s site
gives some swain people a fright,
with its might and frank right
and wrongs, it seems it belongs
to the realm of erroneous thoughts,
false like a healthy day’s snorts
it haunts its twisted creator, a traitor
of academia, with Mediterranean athymia
and psychophemia, he should be ostracised
to that despised space of disgrace.
But yourselves embrace, for the truth’s far more funny,
cause for love or money the equation was a farce
to parse the shallow minds in their disguise,
to separate the fools from the wise,
and what a surprise that must be
when their plea becomes a meaningless decree
and their ludicrous spree nothing but a hollow prize.
Carpe Diem
they said
as they carpe'd Diem.
Like all beings
he was
expendable to them.
*
(Diem of Vietnam, murdered
in a coup, one of 16,000 assassinations
arranged by the CIA with military
escort teams.) .
O beautiful you in garden's heart
From point where tomorrow shall start
Playfully giving and receiving
In all this of going amending
Lasting futures impending
When flowers seeds are reviving
The love that comes into night
And sets out its feelings on flight
Where garden roses are true:
In each their approval and lore -
When love gives to become more
Of all that is to renew
Carpe Diem
Seize the day
Let no hour, minute or second pass
Without living it to the fullest and the best that you can
Linger and breath not where there is no fun to be had
Shed your tears not over regrets and time misspent
Rather weep with joy
For those joyous, wonderous years spent
Gathering forth memories and tidings of good cheer
To comfort you in the days of old that will all too soon come your way
Remember, always remember my friends to
Carpe Diem
2008 Ramona Thompson
different shades of smog lift up to the misty sky
steamy breaths trail from shivering lips.
complains find their place rooted dip into ghetto minds
my spirit is part of this.
I crave for more than just the rising sun
to paint the morning light
the heaven's eye shine with a shy embrace
there has to be more to life than meets the eye.
The circle of life is like a flower,
like people they live then die by the hour.
Live life, use all your powers,
until there are no more hours.
Life is short and filled with fears,
and there's no need to spend it on tears.
Live life - seize the day,
and most likely your visit on earth will be worth the stay.
actually my dear, the most that matters is
now. This is the moment. There is no other.
what is inside my palm is not yours to guess
for i may not follow your wish
your dream, what is here inside me is alive
but only for this moment, there is no time to think
or imagine. This is only the moment. The now.
This is the only moment. It is now.
Hold my hand. As we pass the river of our lives.
Do not look back, as the rush of the water may be
too harsh. Look at my eyes. This is the only moment.
Do not look down at your feet. The water is flowing.
And flowing. There is nothing that you can hold
with your fingers and drink. It is and it will be impossible
to grasp, a past reality, a future possibility.
This is the only moment.This is the only truth. Grab it
with both hands and tell me. Now, is the only truth. This
moment of our lives. You hear the sound of a cascade.
That is what we are now.
Seize the day
This moment
That moment
Every
Such moment
This morning
Sun shining
Positive
Mood swinging
Afternoon
Such delight
In the park
After dark
Late in night
Stars shining
Brainstorming
Life planning
Upon hearing the Nature's frequent call,
I went to attend the glory of nearby Spectacular Fall.
Away from the mundane and factitious world of living,
In the heart of the nature so replenishing.
There from a height water took its steep down pour,
So natural and captivating  cascade it wore.
Soothing rhythms welcomed me unlike it's summer growl,
With mildness to make me count it wasn't playing a foul.
Right in the midst of the fall a Rainbow rose,
Bestowing me  an ideal  setting for a pose,
Carpe Diem! Right then and there seized my day,
To drop few lines of  my living to portray.
Age saw two quiet children
Go loving by at twilight,
He knew not whether homeward,
Or outward from the village,
Or (chimes were ringing) churchward,
He waited, (they were strangers)
Till they were out of hearing
To bid them both be happy.
'Be happy, happy, happy,
And seize the day of pleasure.'
The age-long theme is Age's.
'Twas Age imposed on poems
Their gather-roses burden
To warn against the danger
That overtaken lovers
From being overflooded
With happiness should have it.
And yet not know they have it.
But bid life seize the present?
It lives less in the present
Than in the future always,
And less in both together
Than in the past. The present
Is too much for the senses,
Too crowding, too confusing-
Too present to imagine.
the shadow of today
clouds our minds
forgotten thoughts
of yesterday
hopes of tomorrow
crushed today
memories of todays yesterday
quickly fading away
lessons learned
lost by the time of a new day
every day has its own pain
todays different than tomorrows
the shadow of today
covers our souls in deep gray
for today will just be another
forgotten yesterday
O forlorn heart, so pure and unstained, yet so wary to commit,
Like the pensive bee that hovers over the flower, hesitant,
To seal the deal, burying deep his head in the arms of delight,
Cautious to approach, murmurs his annoyance in quiet.
What holds you back? What question plays on your mind?
An answering smile, to reciprocate?  An acceptance of arms
That carries the burden of your heavy heart? A subtle reprimand
At the dalliance that threw you in the way of harms? What qualms!
The same question plays on my heart. Am I worthy of this Adonis?
Ungrateful, rich at heart. Answer the stony years through which flows
Love’s justification, I draw my strength from that same love,
To stand guilty before you, my witness, stars that the steady sky tows.
My penitence, excuses, to cover your absences at the altar of love,
Shielding you from the sting of those sighing years, her angels
Kept appeased with my songs, its melody to your steady pace impart,
My pulse toiling harder to keep up with the largesse of your heart.
Watchful and guarded against the penetrating intensity of my eyes
Afraid to reveal too much too soon, what veil of words I spy.
As your warm eyes, to contain their depths desperately throw
Shadows, still the hungry eyes devour every emotion on my brow.
Come, seize the moment,
For when I faltered your torch has lit my way in the dark,
If you falter, trust me, pearls of my ardor shall light the spark,
Throw a smile to deter any doubts lurking around,
With a sign of recognition abound,
Wait till the glow hits my heart,
Give me time, for my sense have grown numb in your absence
Then let our understanding hands join in silence,
To finish God’s work, guided by God’s hands through the years.
Awake.
Four in the morning.
Stretch,
Wiggle your toes,
Snuggle under the covers.
Yesterday, is yes; yesterday.
Tomorrow may not be.
This is the way
To live today!
I belong -
By your side.
Carpe diem!
s
From my study window
I see you
below in the garden, a hand
here pruning
or leaning across to snip
a wayward shoot;
a daub of powder-blue in a
profusion of green,
then next moment, you are
no longer there -
only to reappear, this time
perfectly framed
in dappling sunlight, with
an armful of ivy
you've trimmed, topped by
hyacinth blooms,
fragrant survivors of last
night's frost.
And my heart misses a beat
at love for you,
knowing a time will come
when you are
no longer there, nor I here
to watch you
on a day of such simplicity.
Meantime let us
make sure we clasp each
shared moment
in cupped hands, like water
we dare not spill.
Carpe Diem
Today
I live today
Glad, I'm still alive
Please do not curse me
For I might die because of your cursing
I wish I can live many more full days
And God, I want to live till ninety-four
Because, I do not know about tomorrow.
Carpe diem, seize the day,
Let's drink and flirt our lives away!
Pinch the bottoms of the girls,
Kiss their necks and pull their curls,
Party, riot, dance and sing,
Who knows what tomorrow brings?
Decay, dementia, syphilis -
Horace never mentioned this!
Clock strikes 12.
There is no past nor future only the present.
The precious minutes we’ve wasted we can’t get back.
But knowing that I wasted them with you, keeps me here.
Stops time and sticks us together, frozen.
A picture.
A memory.
And you melt into me like candle wax until we can no longer determine where I end and you begin.
But I know that TIME begins and ends inside of you.
When I’m with you I forget about time but years from now I’ll sit back and say 'DO YOU REMEMBER THE TIME, WHEN WE... FELL IN LOVE? '
In fraction of second you consecrate me.
I want you to wake up in the morning right next to me.
It feels like there’s not enough time in the day, though of it we have plenty.
And when I don’t have the time I make it for you.
Every single appointment.
Even when I’m early its too late.
On my calendar your epoch is special event. My time I’ll take it for you.
As short as the time we’ve shared it’s cherished like eternity.
You are the era of horology.
The time flies when we’re having fun but it feels like an eon.
In a matter of days you give me countless infinities.
I will never miss you because of what we do but what we are together.
You gave me the time of day, way past due. The timing is right, and that’s my cue.
On my clock you are the TICK and the TOCK.
And yes there were other times but this time it's you.
All the TIME.
And all we have is right NOW!
Carpe Diem
Sunrise, Carpe Diem, seize the day
Life is like a play, so find your way
An infinite maze this reality seems to be
Locked up in your mind, warden you have the key
Fly high in the sky, free as a bird
Life is what you make it, have you heard
Open your ears open your eyes, blinded by the light
Know yourself and rise to a much greater height
Raise the bar, We are cheering you on
Someday both you and I will be gone
Maybe death is an illusion and we'll still be here
Hold your loved ones and friends ever so near
You never know when they'll have to go
Part of this awesome infinite show
So just play your role and play your role well good human
Create as you go, this is your divine plan
You're the artist do you understand
Forward thinking, what do you have planned
Just learn to enjoy yourself today, words of wisdom
Like basic math, add the numbers, what's the sum?
Counting numbers till the end of time
Keep counting till you hear the clock chime
Time a tool for reality, what is your goal?
In this life you must experience depth of soul.
Around we go, The lord of the ring
Flower of life, All of the birds sing
Like our great sun, circling our serene planet Earth
Watching the sunset will help you find your worth
Oh, seize this day, lads and loves!
Take it by the
scruff of the neck and yank
until your spirit lights a fire
that cannot be put out.
Mere flames
burn the heart that
is determined and ready.
Shout, my earthbound friends,
to the rooftops of encouragement! (YES!)
Eager ladies and gentlemen
dash out of prison work…
and into the freedom weekend.
Seize the day and
waste the infidel night!
Raise your voice!
Get your point across!
We have a choice!
Life beats loss!
Seize the final day!
April 20,2011
Published in Harbinger Asylum
As I sit
Seeping tea
Eating my favorite biscuit
And a bowl of noodle
Crowded afternoon tea house
Seize the moment
And the warm breeze
Friends, one by one gathers
Delightful cherry blossoms conversation
Carpe Diem, seize the day.
‘Carpe diem! ’
a father snapped at his idle son
who was still languishing
in bed at noon.
‘I deem crap –
(anagram) ’ the lad fired back
quick as a flash
across the room.
Wander not dear- blow with the fair breeze & fly the high seas,
All the fretting & sulking stoked, to find an enduring harmony in me,
Wander not into sounds that trick, with their spirited agonies,
Come seize the day, for we shall speak in the melody, God meant for you & me.
Look into my eyes; you shall reach the end of all your journeys,
Place your hand over my beating heart, & find it surpass yours in all degrees,
Like the butterfly, in a God endowed span, enjoys itself thoroughly,
Seeking nothing from flower to flower, save the sweetest of honey,
Live the joy & exuberance as God meant it, rest all must be memory,
Like the sweetness cast by the meekest flower, on a winter day, on a bended knee.
*             *             *
Let the cuckoos sing their sweetest,
Where lovers with a heavy heart rest,
Let the winds blow their trumpets
Where a lone candle burns in earnest.
Let the stars burn their brightest,
Let the darkest hour put them through the harshest test,
Let the coy flowers wistful in sobs of dew throw a riot,
In half shut eye, in half a dream reach their height.
Let the sunbeams open vaults of lit treasures,
And from each casement poet’s thought & sigh come together,
Let the moon in amorous pursuits,
In dew locks of the night, break into cold sweat.
With too great a capacity for joy,
When the world has little occasion for it.
Tarry not- for here I stand in abated breath,
Patient as the ants in your spell, I lie sedate,
When each moment pricks, like a thorn-embedded & plucked,
Before, in brooding fears & doubts, I drown,
Release me from this anguish, gently, to be reborn.
*                   *                   *
When the river persists the hills bow,
When the fruits heave the branches bestow,
Come monsoons the wind must with all his might blow,
Out on errands, the waning moon must return in her full halo.
Come the season, every tree pledges to burst into her splendor,
All entrusted with a purpose, a task to accomplish,
A soul to save, a heart to give away, a time to grant a wish,
For what do you wait- when God’s work lies incomplete at your door?
My time stands encased in a dew dropp in mid-air,
Holding my share of turmoil’s in sighs & cares,
While I knit verses in the trails of the birds & the bees,
Impart some sustaining truths that good things
come to those who wait on destiny, in a fighting frenzy.
Let's lend our heart's and spirits to light a hearth
And thereon, find new ways to measure our heart's girth.
6th Nov-2010
Having a night without sleep.
What a day, I cannot think right.
I need to boost some thoughts and clear my mind with a cuppa.
Another precious day wasted.
Sleeplessness is such a threat.
I know, not much left.
I try to recall that Carpe diem philosophy.
I must walk around the rose garden again.
Imagine a must, lying down under the gentle moon on the softest grasses.
Get away.
Now I 've got it.
I must sit down and write.
I must be away and free.
God sings Carpe Diem.
God provided manna for one day.
Provided it won't rain, God, we'll rise early and pick.
He said, 'It is for today
..Just enough for a day..
Tomorrow, I'll send again.'
'Yesterday's ration turns mouldy.'
'Carpe Diem seize the day', sings the Lord.
'Live aday at a time.'
Carpe Diem!
I see everything so clear
Here in grass mowed over
My tender steps fill time
like an fountain of deep darkness
Hear Stars emanates from roots
Gushing from the pale cheek
The Moon my steps free vote passes
Without chains through
Enchanted Forest soon
subjecting
death and
Then I burn the words thousands of shards
Sparking the churches with winged fingers touch you
Knights are heads of Steel
Will unveil the helmet
And the clay banks
Desferecate will quiver
Bringing us meals
Trees of quiet blue: Carpe Diem, souls! I'll scream
Here in dislodging of bones
Trăiește clipa!
Văd totul atât de clar
Aici, în iarba cosită
Pașii mei buni îți umple timpul
Ca o fântână de întuneric adânc
Ascultați stelele emană din rădăcini
Se mișcă din obrazul palid
Luna mea trece pasul meu liber
Fără lanțuri prin
Pădurea fermecată
supunând
Moarte și
Atunci ard mii de cioburi
Bătălia bisericilor cu degete înaripate vă atinge
Cavaleri cu capete de oțel
Va dezvălui căștile
Și băncile de lut
Desferecate se vor trezi
Adu-ne mese
Copaci de albastru liniștit: Carpe Diem, suflete!
Vreau să țip
Aici, în dislocarea oaselor
Seize
Treat each day like gold
Now, life is like the setting Sun
Time is as precious as gold
Tomorrow is not important anymore
The Sun is setting
With beautiful golden rays.
Come on! seize that hard fought road!
That steady stained and chiselled path,
Scratched out from our chalk filled thoughts
Which touches on our naked dreams.
For it is the here, and that ever now
That desperately pleads to be run upon.
So Let us run!
Run with all our bloody heart's desire
and all our open worth;
Before times iron scythe slips
and casts its cold lot against us.
For the day is not as young,
with an ever eager pumping breast,
It tends to wander without rest.
Come on! let us seize this day!
For destiny is on the horizon,
And the shades are very close
I can sense their bated breath,
That hints of rare design upon the line.
With her flag raised,
Fate reaches out and begs for us
To reach for the that sacred open door.
So finally let us note,
that a pen stands,
where a sacred sword once stood,
Yet it renders and cleaves better,
than any solid weapon ever could.
There's lots of celebration round
Christmas holidays are here
Take walk 'bout town
Have fun!
Because again the Christmas season has arrived
Enjoy
Just everything
Even there isn't cash or gifts
Be cheerful and have lots of laughs
Be merry be happy just shake those blues.
The river will never catch you
if you understand white water.
Lightening will never strike you
if you heed to distant thunder.
Symbols can never haunt you
if your third-eye eschews them.
Death ne'er be yours to beckon
by year, day, hour, or second.
So go sail a raft, ignore the sky,
as cloud formations symbolize,
before your eyes...as you and I
have finally come to realize...
no matter where your logic lies
we were all born to live and die.
Frank J. Ryan, Jr.
All Rights Reserved
______MMXVII_____
What better day to be alive
To search for treasure in the heart
Why with heartache's memory strive
If Cupid's arrow missed the mark
Time never waits for sorrow's grave
Or asks the rain to take a pause
Not every road through life is paved
Kept manicured to hide the flaws
Dare not allow failed love to anchor
Kept in harbor, dreams unfulfilled
Refuse all thoughts prone to rancor
Press through each day with stronger will
Time's too precious for deep sorrow
Live for today, dream tomorrow.
Here, my heart is for you to see,
My soul is for you to burn,
Til no one can catch me,
Even the world stop to turn.
My Love, My lips is for you to kiss inside darkness,
And I will wait you for thousands of sadness,
Come and hold me, i'm your sweetness,
Here i sing for you and your happiness,
For you, i can die;
I swear, i will not lie;
Bring my soul where ever you go,
For my love, i can't say no.
I intend to live out the rest of my days
By rejoicing in every fleeting moment;
By courting love & beauty not dark despair;
By praying that vital gods will bless me.
For I know not the day nor the hour
When death will hover over me and beat
Its terrible wings and it will all end.
In a heartbeat; in the twinkling of an eye.
Life is nothing but one, a day
Fraught with moments eclectic be.
A breath, a whiff, frittered away
'Midst the drudgeries etched O Ye!
Surly snail, shell of oblivion
Retract you so swift, to flee life;
A shiny arrow quiver-sworn
Shoot forth like a skylark from strife.
What have thee to live for? Today!
Till thy morrow(s)  run dry wastrel
Unthrifty happiness waylay
To love, to live, mournful minstrel.
Seize the day, languishing flower.
Be grateful for every moment.
Carpe diem! Seize thy hour.
Bewail not thy lot ne'er for wont.
Hold the last moment
Fleeting, drifting snowflakes melt
Eternity's heart
Release, flee the great design
and live life as a banquet
Thinking of God makes me happy
Writing poetry and drawing too
It makes heart glad
Happy
Thinking positive thoughts in one's head is great
Because
All start with thoughts
When I think of good things
It heals body and spirit faster
Faith and trust in my God keep me strong too.
A corpse condemned to live
I long was lost
somewhere in my painful years
of grief, of doubts, of fears.
Ghost of my own memory
I long was dragged...
trapped inside my overt pain,
isolated, I ever been;
tied by threads unseen
I stay unmoved -
bound by fate unrest
I deem to stoop.
To live a life with life
I long did dream;
to dream to never drown
in woe, in qualms, in tears.
Prisoner of my own history
I long be freed
from ones my soul
played havoc with.
I long to feel my blood to rush
to feel, to touch... be felt, be touched.
Oh how I dream [and wake in it]
to live a life with life.
True, I have always been happy that all the things that are inside
the body are inside the body, and that all things outside
the body, are out
I'm glad to find my lungs on the inside of my chest, for example;
if they were outside, they'd keep getting in the way,
those two great incipient angel wings; besides,
it would be messy
I mean, how would it be if your reached out to shake someone's hand
and there, in the palm, were a kidney and a liver complete with
spleen?
Can you imagine standing at 5 PM in a crowded subway car full of
empty stomachs?
What if a nice, nearsighted old lady were knitting socks and suddenly
her veins fell out? How would she avoid creating a substance
full of strangeness and pain? To the barefoot country boy
sitting on the edge of the bed in the morning and opening
Aunt Minnie's gift box, the sight of those socks would be
what he'd call "a real eye-opener!"
And what if our voices touched? If our mouths went out, instead of in?
If you were inside of me; or, at least, if I were inside of you?
Now I have to cope
With all of this
And i´m losing hope
on the one I miss
He must not know
so I´ll go with the flow
they must not notice
that I´m feeling like this
´cause I want to forget it all
and wait for my curtain call
but she comes into scene
and takes my spotlight
with 'no intentions mean'
like 'it´s all right'
but i won´t buy it,
So here comes Pete
who says, 'love the brotherhood'
so, I bought her food.
But, ah! it makes me sick
to see this freak
all around him
preaching so rich
´bout high esteem
when she can´t reach
the least of it
He is her ticket in
to the high seam,
he´s the prize to win,
to get out of her ruin;
and she doesn´t dare
doesn´t have the nerve
to confess in my face
she got us into a maze
And so nice with her lace
puts on her show
but when i come,
apparently the foe
was just with her mum,
and took off the paw.
Now I wonder:
where he stands?
will he go yonder
into this sinking sands?
I know  they will lead him
away from his dream
´cause we broke up
so we could go higher
we ended it up
to be even wiser
Don´t want him to fall
want him to follow his call
God please let him be
the best he can be
´cause this crazy girl
and her never-grown mum
want to posses the pearl
to the cost of some rum
And this heart still aches
my blood fills the lakes
rivers, and the seas
But he doesn´t notice
doesn´t see the red in water
So this people walk by
and I say, oh my!
I´ll give it a try
I´ll open myself up
But they believe
they´re on top
who could relieve
such a behaviour?
Just do me a favor
Stop saying
You´re something
you´ll never be
I just make this plea
don´t accept me
don´t understand me
just be yourself
and don´t put people on a shelf
you can puke on me
but don´t dare pretend
you´re a honey bee
´cause this signs you send
make me puke
and the shot you took
will make you suffer
´cause you got nothing to offer
and you´ll be cryin'
when you see me flyin'
This is gonna be fun
since you´re only a pawn
who was feeling bad and sad
while I was playing with the lad
I really don´t care
and I know it´s not fair
but how can I help it?
You´re the perfect target
you gave me the weapon
so this game is on
This is so much fun!
You´re the little pawn
and I´m on the throne!
So off with your head
I´ll fight and defend
Yeah, that´s what I said!
he´ll reach his best
without your fest
So now it´s over
no need for cover
you´ve given me peace
and this, this is
what I need:
be close to you
like when I was a kid
no longer blue
not needing to hide,
just standing by your side.
To those who sing carpe diem everyday
I hope they would live long to unprove carpe diem or life of a lizard
I hope they would smell flowers, big and rosy one
lotuses too.
To some who sing carpe diem all the time
I hope they will forget to sing and by God's grace live on to ninety ormore, with vigor and good health.
To those who are dogged by carpe diem all the time, I hope they will forget one day about carpe diem and live on, free
knowing life, knowing more and wise.
I pray God blesses them with accomplishments.
This is life!
Λευκονόη,
μην το ψάχνεις και το ρωτάς.
Είν' αδύνατο να μάθεις
ποιο θά ' ναι για μένα, ποιο για σένα
το τέλος που μας εδώσαν οι θεοί.
Μήτε στα ζώδια της Βαβυλώνας οφελεί
να μπεις στον πειρασμό ν' αναζητήσεις.
Καρτέρα υπομονετικά καλλίτερα
ό, τ' είναι να συμβεί,
τους πολλούς χειμώνες
ή μονάχα αυτόν εδώ, αν τελευταίον
μας τον προόρισεν ο Δίας,
αυτόν π' αναταράζει μ΄ανεμοθύελες
το πέλαγο το τυρρηνικό.
Λογικέψου, ετοίμασε τα κρασάκια,
περιόρισε τις μακραίωνες ελπίδες.
Ακόμα και τούτην  ώρα  που τα λέμε
δραπετεύ' η κακόζηλη ζωή.
[Σα λουλούδι λοιπόν]
δρέψε την κάθε σου μέρα.
΄Οσο λιγότερο έλπιζε στην υστεραία.
It's creeping slowly into my blood
This feeling of desolation and madness
Swirling inside my voids when I look at you
Confused as to why my mind is fantasizing
Why my body is materializing
Why my emotions are stabilizing...
Has this been here all along or just began?
Have I always longed for you or only now?
Did I wish for this forever or did it start today?
Was I supposed to take this forbidden step over you
Make that fateful choice into the unknown
Open myself to breaking completely again
With you I have no ideas
No where to run to
No place to hide...
So maybe I'll just lay my head on your shoulder
Or whisper that I'm looking at you
In a light that only now appeared to my eyes
And it's beautiful.
Oh my it’s blistering hot. please, please stop.
I feel like I’m standing over a steaming pot.
Beads of sweat pouring down my face,
Inopportune times embarrassing place.
I’m fed up with this inward inferno.
Burning, burning from the inside out.
Wake  during the night soaking wet.
listless, tired, out of bed I get
How long will it last,10 years you say,
Oh no Lord, take this misery away.
Good news, good news, help on the way,
Books and products line the shelves today.
I sit and ponder about the women of yesteryear.
Why the mental institutions kept them there.
Menopause, a change of life,
educate yourself, eliminate the strife.
A change is what everybody dreams and wants to see
The change we see – is it better or bad? It’s the question!
Every morning the colourful Sun rise is beautiful to see!
The singing birds inspire us to be free and happy in life!
The jolly good squirrels kindle us too to play as they do!
We can see crows and sparrows all around our houses!
We see beautiful clouds of colour changes at the Sunset,
Night sky full of countless Stars and Moon shining bright!
All these things are Nature at its best nobody can neglect!
Now those things we cannot see and enjoy anymore so!
Morning and evening twilights are beautifully all right;
Stars and Moon in the night times are as usual perfect.
But Nature on the Earth has changed without any doubt!
Farming lands have turned into Satellite towns around town;
Crows, sparrows have disappeared with the destruction of trees!
Farmers have come to towns to work as masons and mill workers;
Population, traffic, pollution have increased with food grain price!
Money is not enough to buy all people need as rain in summer!
Men drink and talk themselves and lie on the pavements;
At night it is common they sleep where dogs and pigs frequent;
All have become one according to socialism politics advocates!
Swine flu, bird flu and SARS are spreading the entire world now!
And Stars and Moon wink eyes at this big farce of society so!
Now, a man in Oodnadatta
He grew fat, and he grew fatter,
Though he hardly had a thing to eat for dinner;
While a man in Booboorowie
Often sat and wondered how he
Could prevent himself from growing any thinner.
So the man from Oodnadatta
He came down to Booboorowie,
Where he rapidly grew flatter;
And the folk will tell you how he
Urged the man from Booboorowie
To go up to Oodnadatta -
Where he lived awhile, and now he
Is considerably fatter.
I'm full of joy and richly blessed
Of Christ I'm never shy
I'll journey through this world as guest
Until the day I die
Though old, grey near worldly dead
The grave my flesh may see
But souls who've eaten Heaven's Bread
Will rise complete and free
Free of sin of eternal wrath
Free through innocent blood
Free to travel Christ's trodden path
And live the way I should
It's not too late to change your ways
Seek Jesus' help on high
Fix on Him your fervent gaze
Or least of all to try
For God can see a troubled soul
The heart of those still blind
Seeking someone to make them whole
Searching for peace of mind
God sees the filth that keeps us bound
Lost, through satanic lies
He sees who seek the higher ground
In righteousness to rise
He sees who kill, rape, cheat, connive
Deceivers greedy for gain
Liars, thieves believing to thrive
Hoping with Christ to reign
Only who turn to live anew
Washed clean in Heaven's Flame
As virgin bride God's chosen few
Receive The Bride-Groom's name......
It is said that a four leafed clover
Brings good luck to those that find
In the middle summer I looked all over
For a magic leaf of four… a rare kind
Then one day I discovered a quad-leaf
Inconspicuously growing in the lawn
Good luck would mine… this was my belief
Tomorrow will improve starting at dawn
The next morning I brushed my teeth
Then splashed warm water on my face
I did not notice the cat beneath my feet
Tripped and fell with no time to brace
Standing with bruised knees I wondered
How can this happen, how is it possible?
What twist of chance caused this blunder?
In too much haste… I was accountable
Then I realized that maybe I was fortunate
It least I did not break my bones in the fall
Hope for luck, turned out to be a distraction
Maybe an uneventful day is the luckiest of all…
2/6/08
Now the new chum loaded his three-nought-three,
It's a small-bore gun, but his hopes were big.
"I am fed to the teeth with old ewe," said he,
"And I might be able to shoot a pig."
And he trusted more to his nose than ear
To give him warning when pigs were near.
Out of his lair in the lignum dark.
Where the wild duck nests and the bilbie digs,
With a whoof and a snort and a kind of bark
There rose the father of all the pigs:
And a tiger would have walked wide of him
As he stropped his tusks on a leaning limb.
Then the new chum's three-nought-three gave tongue
Like a popgun fired in an opera bouffe:
But a pig that was old when the world was young
Is near as possible bullet-proof.
(The more you shoot him the less he dies,
Unless you catch him between the eyes.)
So the new chum saw it was up to him
To become extinct if he stopped to shoot;
So he made a leap for a gidgee limb
While the tusker narrowly missed his boot.
Then he found a fork, where he swayed in air
As he gripped the boughs like a native bear.
The pig sat silent and gaunt and grim
To wait and wait till his foe should fall:
For night and day were the same to him,
And home was any old place at all.
"I must wait," said he, "till this sportsman drops;
I could use his boots for a pair of strops."
The crows that watch from the distant blue
Came down to see what it all might mean;
An eaglehawk and a cockatoo
Bestowed their patronage on the scene.
Till a far-off boundary rider said
"I must have a look -- there is something dead."
Now the new chum sits at his Christmas fare
Of a dried-up chop from a tough old ewe.
Says he, "It's better than native bear
And nearly as tender as kangaroo.
An emu's egg I can masticate,
But pork," says he, "is the thing I hate."
Autumnal winds caress my face
as summer's heated breeze expires.
The years have quickened in their pace,
foregoing my misplaced desires.
As winter lurks not far ahead
my memory drifts to warmer days,
where on a greener grass I tread
absorbing love's adoring rays.
Beneath the August moon we'd dance,
embracing 'til the blaze of dawn,
but violent gusts would steal my chance
and whisk away the dreams I'd drawn.
Through fallen leaves of yesteryears
I sift for blades of thriving hope,
to help me cool these caustic tears
and find the strength and will to cope.
For in the autumn of my life
is when I'll gain a peace within,
discarding weights of pain and strife
and letting reigns of joy begin.
Then when the days of fall conclude
and winter takes its turn on stage,
I know my soul will be renewed
as life records my final page.
Sometimes I wake up hating the world
Caring for no one in it
Doing only what stress reviled
And ignoring what isn’t
Pain flows through my body
Quite often, frequently
Sulking becomes a hobby
And draws attention to me unpleasantly
Regretting my decisions
Wishing I were someone else
Somebody with vision
Anyone but myself
Hating everything about me
Wishing I were done
Leave my past behind me
And just, run
Hiding forever behind every tree
So I blend in with the shadows
Enabling you to see
How I scandal
Ripping at my hair
Pinching at my chest
Unable to bare
Till my last breath
Waiting for another place
Of which you can roam
Wishing for a teary face
When I'm gone
I’ll just let you know
You have no idea
The things I wish to let go
Are STILL right here
As children of the universe
Our destination earth,
We ride upon the solar winds
Until the hour of birth
When scattered, weary travlers
Who've journeyed from afar
Begin their incarnation
On this cold and dying star;
What used to be so beautiful,
So vibrant green and blue
An oasis for the many
Has been wasted by the few,
What purpose in this torture
Of the motherhood of man?
What evil child will desecrate
His home because he can?
We've overstayed our welcome
It's time for us to leave
And after our destruction
Will no man be left to grieve?
Sweet children of the universe
With hearts so pure and free
Release this star from bondage
With love's celestial key!
Return these souls to heaven
Wrap this earth in slumber deep,
Awaken us with dreaming,
Let your love inside  us creep
Then as buds upon the branches
Of Life's tree on some spring morn'
We shall blossom into beauty
And this earth shall be reborn.
To everything there is a season,
A time of gladness, grief and cheer,
Smiles of laughter, sadness of tears,
For every sunset there's a sunrise,
There is no rainbow without the rain,
No summer time without the spring,
Golden days and frosty nights,
Icy winds thoughout the days,
With winters newly fallen snows,
Whose years are like the seasons,
Let the future hold no doubt,
There'll come a change of scene,
With rain bound skies of hope and love,
I have seen your different faces,
Life is like the changing seasons,
Upward always climb,
As the seasons change as we.
I grow,
I struggle,
I am not nurtured,
Nor cared for,
I learn the harsh lessons,
Of Life,
Alone.
Then,
Satisfied in my growth,
Having learnt my lessons,
I gain maturity,
I am ready,
For change.
I build walls,
Around myself,
To protect,
This change,
For change I must.
I hang,
Waiting patiently,
Change must occur,
For what else is left?
I push now,
I am impatient,
I have waited,
Long enough,
It is time.
I’ll show this world,
That I can survive.
One side of me,
Is exposed to the world,
Then another,
Slowly at first,
For I do not wish to shock,
Only to dazzle.
Released am I,
Free,
Free to show myself,
In all my glory,
In all my splendor.
For I have changed,
I am now,
Who I’m meant to be,
I am finally me.
So, fear not change,
It comes naturally,
Be brave,
Learn well,
And when,
The time comes,
Be free.
i walk in clothes you don't like,
i hangout with friends you don't like,
why can't you just excpet the way i am,
i can't not change, its who i am,
this is who i am,
the person i am growing up to be,
don't you understand,
i am who i want to be,
can't you just let it go,
because this is who i am,
you can't change a thing.
you let her walk in skimpy clothes,
when all i want to wear is black,
she goes and dates older men,
when i only date guys my age and you still won't let it go.
you don't have to worry,
don't you want me to be happy?
if you do then let it be.
this is who i am,
the person i am growing up to be,
don't you understand,
i am who i want to be,
can't you just let it go,
because this is who i am,
you can't change a thing.
For one ruined in love, the old status quo
Offers comfort of a kind tho' cold.
Suffering neglect, your heart is a wreck,
Yet one's vow demands payment of debt.
Honorbound to see old promises through,
Despite the cost and the loss, you do.
For years it's been wrong, and forever's so long,
Wanting to be held, to be known, to belong.
Chances to let go, to be free and to know
How good it feels as love flowers and grows
Have come and gone just as dusk chases dawn,
Like pretty dreams light a world dark and wan.
Change is a Chance taken - - not another need
Forsaken to spare one whose tight heart will bleed.
Don't fear that long leap o'er the abyss of trust,
Just close your eyes... life without love is but dust.
We build but for change and for death,
To whom a like homage pay glory and shame;
For something must pass to give being to both.
All things are rounded by change, and are perishing—
Even the God-builded frame of the world.
The glories of life, as they shine,
But illumine a path to the gloom of the grave,
And the winter of shame is soon over and gone!
Of all we inherit, behold the inheritors!
Throned on the endless successions of Time.
Change,
When change comes, it should enlighten the eye
Change is sometimes painful and especially when
without warning,
Leaving one wondering and questioning just why?
Regarding of the nature of a matter, in time change shall surely come
Most of the times there's a significant  purpose in change,
A long tough battle won.
change!  change!  change!
everybody talkin' about change.
change your look,
change your luck,
change your politics,
change your religion...
change the country,
change the world....
change the day!
change your underwear!
loose change, pocket change,
winds of change, march for change....
but all real change begins within...
let's work on that,
and then everything else
will change in turn!
The more that some Christians change, the more they remain the same,
For many people who claim to be saved, are only Christians in name.
Christianity is not simply a religion for man to deal with strife,
But it's God personally reaching down to man to offer him new life.
Change in one's life is not simply an option for each Child of God,
For we were commanded to leave behind the path we once had trod.
Although we live in the world, we're not to be of the world we're in,
For God's desire for us would be hindered if we get entangled in sin.
Christians are sealed by The Holy Spirit until the day of redemption,
You are then set apart for the work of The Lord, with no Exemption.
Our lives belong to God, as He purchased us with the blood of Christ,
Christ is where we place our trust, as we become a living sacrifice.
And it's to the patterns of this world we are not to be conformed,
Instead it's through the Word that renews, we are to be transformed.
For all in Christ, the old passes away as we become a New Creation,
And God, who has reconciled us, give us a ministry of reconciliation.
So our lives should now be used to reach others with God's Salvation,
It should be our compassion to reach every tribe, tongue and nation.
So today is the day to let The Lord inside and really make a change,
And just like John the Baptist my friend, you will never be the same.
(Copyright © 03/2003)
When I was younger
I wanted to go out like Morrison.
Life lived at
break neck speed
Debauched
High
Dead in Paris
at age 28.
Nowadays
I just want to be
Tom Waits
Sat on a porch
with a glass of wine
in my hand
And my cat's
asleep at my feet.
It's funny,
as each passing year
drags you one step
closer to death
your priorities seem
to
change.
Change is a God thing God
God teach me to become a better christian
God teach me to love you
Change my heart O God
Make me a righteous person like You
Change my mind O God
Let me think wise in everything I do
Change my eyes O God
Give me a sight to see the light in You
Change my hands O God
Make me a fisher of man for You
Change my feet O God
Make me walk upright like You
Change my lips O God
And let me speak Your word of truth
Come and cleanse me O God
Make me whiter than the December snow
Come and forgive me O God
For all the wrong things I’ve done, and the lie words I’ve told
Oh, how I love it
When I have a change of address
And I have to tell everybody
That I have just moved
And you have to leave
The friends that you have
But, you do find new ones
At your new address
Me, being me
I always wore
My heart
on my sleeve
But now...
no more.
I asked the assistant
if I could see
“...some new hearts
...please? ”
(that would suit
my change of heart) .
“Why, certainly sir! ”
(he smiled sycophantically) .
He showed me
a heart
“...in light pain.”
“Or, if Sir
may not mind me commenting
this deep purple pain
... suits you Sir! ”
“Don’t you have any
...in bright joy? ”
“Or at best
...partial happiness? ”
“Or at least
...contentment? ”
The assistant smirked:
“...at what one must assume
is Sir’s...little joke? ”
“Happiness is so...old hat! ”
“Happiness is...how you say
... so passé! ”
I left the shop
clutching an expensive
purple heart
knowing I would never
wear it
And that it would
hang in the wardrobe
Mocking
My predicament.
So, now
I don’t have a mind
to have a heart.
Get by
(somehow)
... without
...one.
The Summer season gradually fades away,
Nature's way of bidding a humble farewell to all.
A change is seen as the leaves fade in unison
As the beautiful Autumn season comes to call.
September - the sounds in the garden are quiet now,
The song birds are no longer to be found.
Flying high up in the cloudy sky,
Many feathered friends are southward bound.
October - the trees are covered with tantalizing colors
Of red and gold and yellow and even brown,
And crimson, too, in a multitude of fashion
The leaves come wafting down.
November - fringed with frost and nippy cold,
The fading days of Autumn are everywhere.
A quiet state of melancholy days
With signs of a changing season in the air.
December - All of a sudden the winds of winter blow,
The falling snow begins to pile high.
We are delighted for the bounty Autumn has provided,
Uttering words of thank you - with an appreciative sigh.
Change is hard
i try to change
Sorry im such a disapointment
I show great deplore
Couldn't live up to your excpectations
I try to change for the nation
Even tried consultation
there is no short cut
Gotta take the long road
So your probably fed-up
my heart has been cut up
there isn't much more i can do
tried everything for you
thats cause change is hard
feels like i've been hung out to dry
In front of a hundred eyes
I do try
but thats not enough
not enough for change
But now life's face beholden
Seemed bright as heaven's bare brow
With hope of gifts withholden
But now.
From time's full-flowering bough
Each bud spake bloom to embolden
Love's heart, and seal his vow.
Joy's eyes grew deep with olden
Dreams, born he wist not how;
Thought's meanest garb was golden;
But now!
Our world forever changes every second every day.
Nothing halts the pass of time; old age will have its way.
each mighty cliff or ancient tree will suffer the same fate
life seems just an experiment, a transitory state.
The planet earth its fertile soil, the mysteries of heaven,
all forever changing in more ways  known to man.
From the wonder of first breath to surrender of the last,
Time becomes the enemy devours all moments past.
Nothing is more fragile than the spirit of mankind,
as good and evil battle in each subconscious mind.
change is hardly noticed until friends or lover’s die,
then we weep and fear mortality while we say goodbye.
Change has made us who we are, a visitor, a guest
we dine on nature’s beauty babies suckle at the breast.
A child will learn and grow maybe someday take my place
But In very different world, for I alone lived in this space.
Roan Nov 2007
change can happen when you get the chance
change can happen without  a passing glance
change can change everything in your path
change is the resistance to the things in the past
change is what people have to do to make theyre lives good
Thoughts broke down from my dreams demise
As I shut my dreaming eyes
Stars flickered out
My wish lost truth
As I cried in a phone booth
The string untied
Memories faded away
I cried all night and I cried all day
Missing you
And you haven't even left me
Missing who
You used to be
I'm missing you
And I wish
That you'd leave me,
Just wish
That you'd leave me alone
Knowledge broke through
Hope lost touch
I cried too much
Just thinking of you
The pain came down
My smile turned to frown
And I wish I could walk away
I just with that I could walk away
Missing you
And you haven't even left me
Missing who
You used to be
I'm missing you
And I wish
That you'd leave me,
Just wish
That you'd leave me alone
Changed?  Yes, I will confess it – I have changed.
I do not love you in the old fond way.
I am your friend still – time has not estranged
One kindly feeling of that vanished day.
But the bright glamour which made life a dream,
The rapture of that time, its sweet content,
Like visions of a sleeper’s brain they seem –
And yet I cannot tell you how they went.
Why do you gaze with such accusing eyes
Upon me, dear?  It is so very strange
That hearts, like all things underneath God’s skies,
Should sometimes feel the influence of change?
The birds, the flowers, the foliage of the trees,
The stars which seem so fixed, and so sublime,
Vast continents, and the eternal seas, -
All these do change, with ever-changing time.
The face our mirror shows us year on year
Is not the same; our dearest aim, or need,
Our lightest thought, or feeling hope, or fear,
All, all the law of alternation heed.
How can we ask the human heart to stay,
Content with fancies of Youth’s earliest hours?
The year outgrows the violets of May,
Although, maybe, there are no fairer flowers.
And life may hold no sweeter love than this,
Which lies so cold, so voiceless, and so dumb,
And will I miss it, dear?  Why, yes, we miss
The violets always – till the roses come!
It is a perilous venture to an unknown
where the living world is limitless
like weeds from a faraway land
dreaming...and hoping...
It is a desert where the woes tremble
like a torch's sparkle at night
and the origin is not known yet
chanting...and lifting...
But, it has wings that can endure
even swallow those that are bigger;
It has eyes that can examine
even those who do not deserve it.
Most of all, it begins everything new!
Change
Said the sun to the moon,
You cannot stay.
Change
Says the moon to the waters,
All is flowing.
Change
Says the fields to the grass,
Seed-time and harvest,
Chaff and grain.
You must change said,
Said the worm to the bud,
Though not to a rose,
Petals fade
That wings may rise
Borne on the wind.
You are changing
said death to the maiden, your wan face
To memory, to beauty.
Are you ready to change?
Says the thought to the heart, to let her pass
All your life long
For the unknown, the unborn
In the alchemy
Of the world's dream?
You will change,
says the stars to the sun,
Says the night to the stars.
It seems right now no one has the time
When I’m about to lose my mind
My sadness makes me write
But sometimes I want to fight
Everything has to change
But it all seems so strange
When I talk
All you do is mock
CHANGE shall accustom me in after years
To kingdom's builded on life's overthrow;
Onward with other poets I shall go,
Unpraised of thee. though praised of all my peers,
Until the vine that thou hast quckened, bears
Its fruit in others' hands; until I grow
So different from myself I shall not know
This poor young desperate heart, nor these wild tears.
But though I change, thou shalt not change with me,
Thy shrine shall stand unaltered and unmoved,
And if we meet again I shall but see
The features of a stranger, thou wilt be
Wholly what once thou wert to me, Beloved
And not what time and men have made of thee
Change is
Change...
Time to time...
All are change...
Change is...
Permenent...
Not tempervory
With out change is
Any thing...
Nothing is in  world...
Their fake smiles surround me.
I’m on the outside looking in.
Because I didn’t take wear the right clothes.
Well I think its time to spread these wings.
You never helped me.
You never listened to what I had to say.
You never made me feel good.
You made me feel like dirt.
But still I call you my friend.
I’m going through this with you.
But it feels as though I’m alone.
I can’t call you when he’s leaving.
His bags all packed.
Because he has found a better more perfect family.
So as tears flood my eyes.
They pour down my cheeks leaving puddles on the floor.
Barely being able to speak.
I reach for the phone.
Dialing your number.
Trying to reach someone to tell me everything will be fine.
Reaching out before I die.
Pulling that trigger with the barrel pressed against my head.
I finally get you.
And yet you tell me just to go to bed.
Pain and hurt rushes over.
I’m alone.
There’s no one here to talk me to sleep.
No one to help me through.
I’m stuck here in hell.
To never return back.
Can’t you just lend a hand.
Someone please help.
As I think that it is over.
I’ve watched betrayal from my father.
And I don’t want you do to the same.
Finding a more perfect and better friend.
Because I was there for you when your grandma died.
Now I’m dying but your not here.
I need you to be here.
Beside me.
Making me feel better.
But no your not.
Because I’m your old friend.
Im sorry that I didn’t wear the right clothes.
I didn’t have the ins.
I’m not sorry that I was your friend.
You were like a sister.
But now you won’t even open up your arms to me.
I feel hopeless.
This trigger is pressed even harder to my skull.
Just.Pull.The.Trigger.
This house has come crashing down.
The lies.
The tears.
The screams.
Why won’t you just say 3 little words.
Everything.
Is.
Ok.
This is my last cry for help.
Just reach out.
As I’m reaching out now.
I’ve given you all the signs.
And you know too.
But you won’t reach for me.
I’m going.
Slowly I’m going further to that black hole.
Why can’t you just help?
Goodbye.
1     I shall not wonder more, then,
2     But I shall know.
3     Leaves change, and birds, flowers,
4     And after years are still the same.
5     The sea's breast heaves in sighs to the moon,
6     But they are moon and sea forever.
7     As in other times the trees stand tense and lonely,
8     And spread a hollow moan of other times.
9     You will be you yourself,
10   I'll find you more, not else,
11   For vintage of the woeful years.
12   The sea breathes, or broods, or loudens,
13   Is bright or is mist and the end of the world;
14   And the sea is constant to change.
15   I shall not wonder more, then,
16   But I shall know.
Feel the chillness,
lying wrapped against your skin?
Remember, quite soon,
Once again,
Spring will begin.
Bloom will come,
As always; again.
R.
Open your life and accept change;
Its like a flower in midst fo a mountain range.
blooming and shining unconditionally;
spreading its fragrance and hue in the valley.
Changes teach us that there is more to life,
It shows us our goals and the way to strive.
Its like a dropp of golden Sun in the darkness
Illuminating the thoughts and directing it to harness.
Accelarating and enlightening as it comes;
Failures and sucess all it sums.
Providing an intermediary betwixt past disappointments and future aspirations;
Welcoming change is the only way to reach the life's destination.
Life and its ways are truly very strange;
The key is to accept what you cannot change.
you have changed
and it's not for the better
all of the sudden
your different
and it's no good.
What's with you lately
I know you want to fit in
or impress a girl
but please dont change. not for her.
Standing from the outside I can see it.
you're different, not the same,
I'm not too sure about this new person
please change back.
The Autumn morn' awakes
leaves vibrantly cloth himself
taking chance upon winds
searching for new
breath
In the journey unto
the winds of chance
each touch
then flow apart
then touch again
Yet in each touch
something new
something old
something peculiar
never the same
Each time the winds of chance
blows a leaf
from it's branch
has a dance
then takes it's prance
life has a kiss....
NEW doth the sun appear,
The mountains' snows decay,
Crown'd with frail flowers forth comes the baby year.
My soul, time posts away;
And thou yet in that frost
Which flower and fruit hath lost,
As if all here immortal were, dost stay.
For shame! thy powers awake,
Look to that Heaven which never night makes black,
And there at that immortal sun's bright rays,
Deck thee with flowers which fear not rage of days!
Change is to one man the death of a friend,
To another the birth of a child.
Change is the shifting of soft winds of spring,
to a hurricane deadly and wild.
Change is the moving of the hourglass sands,
It's the coming of dawn after dark.
Change is taking one step at a time,
The emotion in each persons heart.
But change in the end, will not change at all
The one constant in everyone's lives
Change is the light at the end of the tunnel
The healer who opens our eyes.
Change the N-word now
Change it forever
Make the world better
change the world, change me!
the revolution reaches autumn.
the wings of my dreams join the birds,
preparing to fly south.
the fireflies of my passion,
lay down the final gauntlet.
i let go of my thoughts,
and listen, just listen!
we walk a thousand miles,
to become seed and dirt.
the world that was distant,
now the sweat on my brow.
for i am the world...
change me, change the world!
Five months ago the stream did flow,
The lilies bloomed within the sedge,
And we were lingering to and fro,
Where none will track thee in this snow,
Along the stream, beside the hedge.
Ah, Sweet, be free to love and go!
For if I do not hear thy foot,
The frozen river is as mute,
The flowers have dried down to the root:
And why, since these be changed since May,
Shouldst thou change less than they.
And slow, slow as the winter snow
The tears have drifted to mine eyes;
And my poor cheeks, five months ago
Set blushing at thy praises so,
Put paleness on for a disguise.
Ah, Sweet, be free to praise and go!
For if my face is turned too pale,
It was thine oath that first did fail, --
It was thy love proved false and frail, --
And why, since these be changed enow,
Should I change less than thou.
Who am I now
I have lost my way
the hours go faster somehow
and months past before the days
at an incredible speed
I follow instead of lead
so many choices are before me
which path will make me happy
Copyright @ Aqua Flower
i set in this house away frim everything
clearing my head from everything at home
and the rest of my life
looking at everything i have done and i'm doing now
somethings i wish i could change something i don't
knowing nothing can be i have to deal with it
deal with the choices i have made
but i can from here on out
NO!
i will, i will change
change everything about me
they all will seea new me forever
good bye to the old and hello to the new
I wrote a poem on the wind
with raindrops in my hand
and heard a forest sigh in pain
in Amazon's deep land.
COULD this early bliss but rest
Constant for one single hour!
But e'en now the humid West
Scatters many a vernal shower.
Should the verdure give me joy?
'Tis to it I owe the shade;
Soon will storms its bloom destroy,
Soon will Autumn bid it fade.
Eagerly thy portion seize,
If thou wouldst possess the fruit!
Fast begin to ripen these,
And the rest already shoot.
With each heavy storm of rain
Change comes o'er thy valley fair;
Once, alas! but not again
Can the same stream hold thee e'er.
And thyself, what erst at least
Firm as rocks appear'd to rise,
Walls and palaces thou seest
But with ever-changing eyes.
Fled for ever now the lip
That with kisses used to glow,
And the foot, that used to skip
O'er the mountain, like the roe.
And the hand, so true and warm,
Ever raised in charity,
And the cunning-fashion'd form,--
All are now changed utterly.
And what used to bear thy name,
When upon yon spot it stood,
Like a rolling billow came,
Hast'ning on to join the flood.
Be then the beginning found
With the end in unison,
Swifter than the forms around
Are themselves now fleeting on!
Thank the merit in thy breast,
Thank the mould within thy heart,
That the Muses' favour blest
Ne'er will perish, ne'er depart.
Don't change me
But change the world around you
My friend
Although thy hand and faith, and good works too,
Have seal'd thy love which nothing should undo,
Yea though thou fall back, that apostasy
Confirm thy love; yet much, much I fear thee.
Women are like the Arts, forc'd unto none,
Open to'all searchers, unpriz'd, if unknown.
If I have caught a bird, and let him fly,
Another fouler using these means, as I,
May catch the same bird; and, as these things be,
Women are made for men, not him, nor me.
Foxes and goats; all beasts change when they please,
Shall women, more hot, wily, wild then these,
Be bound to one man, and did Nature then
Idly make them apter to endure than men?
They are our clogges, not their owne; if a man be
Chain'd to a galley, yet the galley is free;
Who hath a plow-land, casts all his seed corn there,
And yet allows his ground more corn should bear;
Though Danuby into the sea must flow,
The sea receives the Rhene, Volga, and Po.
By nature, which gave it, this liberty
Thou lov'st, but Oh! canst thou love it and me?
Likeness glues love: Then if so thou do,
To make us like and love, must I change too?
More than thy hate, I hate it, rather let me
Allow her change, then change as oft as she,
And so not teach, but force my opinion
To love not any one, nor every one.
To live in one land is captivity,
To run all countries, a wild roguery;
Waters stink soon, if in one place they bide,
And in the vast sea are worse putrified:
But when they kiss one bank, and leaving this
Never look back, but the next bank do kiss,
Then are they purest; Change is the nursery
Of music, joy, life, and eternity.
I want to remember the world this way:
The light, steadfast on the windowsill,
a breathless sky and the autumn as beautiful
as it is bitter.
The way it was just yesterday
when you held me against your chest, against
a backdropp of sunset: so many colors
evolving into darkness- rearranging themselves
into the first evening shadows.
I want to sleep with the memory of you
still fresh inside of my head, and the scent
of your kisses still clinging to my lips.
Your eyes: cathartic pools I wish I could dive into,
to drown myself in their prismatic vision.
How does it feel to see the world, to see life
through a third eye?
I wish I could see beyond my sorrow and live
beyond my darkness- then I’d see myself
not entirely unraveled, but tearing at the seams
to become something more, something other than
the girl with a big smile to sacrifice to the world,
who will always be just a little bit sad.
Today the summer sun beats down on me like it did when I was back in Nam
Making me crazy with a touch of the malaria......making me
mad enough to overreact to the slightest breeze
exhaled from the painted lips of a one legged diseased ridden concubine
Like the one that cleaned the hooch when I was back in Nam.....
She had a way of setting me off....flapping those lips....kind of like Madonna does.....
With all her Al Gore Global warming crap....
If she wanted to truly save the planet....she'd close her mouth and legs.....
I cannot change, as others do,
Though you unjustly scorn;
Since that poor swain that sighs for you,
For you alone was born.
No, Phyllis, no, your heart to move
A surer way I'll try:
And to revenge my slighted love,
Will still love on, will still love on, and die.
When, killed with grief, Amintas lies
And you to mind shall call,
The sighs that now unpitied rise,
The tears that vainly fall,
That welcome hour that ends this smart
Will then begin your pain;
For such a fauthful tender heart
Can never break, can never break in vain.
If trust were a material thing,
solid and concrete,
there would be huge
boxes of it in the attic
that you have given me.
I build a nest in your words
everytime you say you love me.
I am at a loss, for the words to say,
for the pain you feel today.
I know this loss is harder then,
most difficult times along lifes way.
For if I could change things
please know I surely would...
for this great Man your grieving for,
the woman you called Dad; grandpa,
will remain in your hearts for good.
He is not really gone...
keep him alive in your memory,
til you meet again, many years from now,
in another land, a better place, In heaven.
(Written May 18th 2007.)
I love the way you talk to anyone, do you have to talk to her
I love the way you love animals, you know I’m allergic to fur
I love the way you are different, you’re not going out in that hat
I love the way you dance, do you have to embarrass me like that
I love the way you are well read, you gonna waste money on that book
I love the way you think I’m beautiful, why’d you give me that leering look
I love the way you’ll help anyone, bet it’s just to fuel your ego
I love the way you’re spontaneous, this isn’t where I wanted to go
I love the way I fill you with desire, I told you I’m not in the mood
I love the way you’re relaxed about your body, do you really need all that food
I love the way you are still fun, do you really need that toy
I love the way you still act young, sometimes you’re like a little boy
I love the way you collect me from work, isn’t it time you got a new car
I love the way I feel natural around you, stop looking while I’m only in my bra
I love the way you always have a smile, why’d you have to wear that silly grin
I love that you just let yourself go, do you really have to try to sing
And if you keep on with that annoying laugh I don’t think I’ll last another day
I’m so glad we met ‘cos I think that you’re perfect … why you walking away?
why change
after so long
we had thought
we have been made
for each other?
yes, you can go
to your new heart
i will beat my old one
the path you walk
i pray will be strewn
with roses
the ones
you sent
at the first valentine
you got me
my heart
i would have done
anything for you
for your happiness
why change?
if it is that is what you have chosen
with full blessing
i let you walk your path
but remember
my love still accompanies
each of your steps
my tears
each of my fingers
inspired by
'It Will Not Change'
It will not change now
After so many years;
Life has not broken it
With parting or tears;
Death will not alter it,
It will live on
In all my songs for you
When I am gone.
Sarah Teasdale
It will not change now
After so many years;
Life has not broken it
With parting or tears;
Death will not alter it,
It will live on
In all my songs for you
When I am gone.
I wish it would change.
The urge to cut my self.
I wish it would change.
This pain that is felt.
I wish it would change.
So i write it all down.
I wish it would change.
Wearing my blank lifeless frown.
I wish it would change.
Crying everyday.
I wish it would change.
Not having any thing to say.
I wish it would change.
So I don't have to write poems.
I wish it would change.
And wish everbody knew them.
I wish it would change.
I'm just trying to fight it.
I wish it would change.
Everyday trying to hide it.
I wish it would change.
My sorrow, My pain.
I wish it would change.
It's getting worst everday.
Keep your change for a rainy day
Because when it is raining outside
You won't like to walk outside
Because you will get wet if you walk ouside
And if you have some money in your pocket
You will be able to ride on the bus
Without geting wet
Just as I believe that autumn's gone,
left bare branches dressed in shades of grey,
melted the glowing leaves to muddy slime,
stealing sunlight, shortening my day –
just  as I prepare to go to ground,
to tell myself to close my eyes,
accept the long dark cell
where I must make my home till spring –
I turn a corner on the narrow track and reach
the downward slope.
And here time’s slowed  it seems.
Still, in this one place,
slim beech trunks, green velvet covered,
scattered with gold and bronze, stand warm
against dark thickets in the forest.
And though the sky outside is grey
this tunnel, where the trees protect their own,
holds autumn’s final breath
before December's sterile chill comes down.
the fireworks have flown,
the wishes have been welcomed,
the booze has reached the brain,
yet everything still seems the same,
alhtough one year has bid us farewell,
and a new year has arrived.
on the acid crystal drops of the rain.
a heavy head greets my morning,
just as it has always done,
as sure as the sky and the sun,
The coffee still tastes as bitter as i,
like it did last year,
and the year before,
the Car refuses to wake from its mechanical sleep,
the Radio showers my ears with static,
just as it did last year.
the date may have changed,
but life's enduring pains,
simply move with the years
268
Me, change! Me, alter!
Then I will, when on the Everlasting Hill
A Smaller Purple grows—
At sunset, or a lesser glow
Flickers upon Cordillera—
At Day's superior close!
But where began the change; and what's my crime?
The wretch condemned, who has not been arraigned,
Chafes at his sentence. Shall I, unsustained,
Drag on Love's nerveless body thro' all time?
I must have slept, since now I wake. Prepare,
You lovers, to know Love a thing of moods:
Not like hard life, of laws. In Love's deep woods,
I dreamt of loyal Life:--the offence is there!
Love's jealous woods about the sun are curled;
At least, the sun far brighter there did beam.
My crime is, that the puppet of a dream,
I plotted to be worthy of the world.
Oh, had I with my darling helped to mince
The facts of life, you still had seen me go
With hindward feather and with forward toe,
Her much-adored delightful Fairy Prince!
In days of yore men preened and posed like peacocks to impress
the haute monde with their quality: Put on a brave display,
although often a hollow sham. Which only served to say.
Fine feathers do not make the man, although they may express.
His vapid personality and general uselessness
Today image is everything, it is the modern way.
We kow tow to celebrities, a silly game we play
We have not learnt lessons from history. That image matters less
Than well proven ability and sterling honesty.
We let ourselves be taken in by what spin doctors say.
We are to ready to accept as truth, the clever lies
Which at first glance appear to be completely bias free.
Well designed publicity by those who earn high pay.
by portraying as honest men: Thieving rogues in disguise.
804
No Notice gave She, but a Change—
No Message, but a Sigh—
For Whom, the Time did not suffice
That She should specify.
She was not warm, though Summer shone
Nor scrupulous of cold
Though Rime by Rime, the steady Frost
Upon Her Bosom piled—
Of shrinking ways—she did not fright
Though all the Village looked—
But held Her gravity aloft—
And met the gaze—direct—
And when adjusted like a Seed
In careful fitted Ground
Unto the Everlasting Spring
And hindered but a Mound
Her Warm return, if so she chose—
And We—imploring drew—
Removed our invitation by
As Some She never knew—
Why do people change?
What is the problem with being yourself?
Are you scared of ruining your image?
Is that more important?
Why do people change?
Can’t they just be themselves?
Why do they go away?
Do they think they’re cool because they wear the same jeans?
Why do people change?
Can’t the world just stay the same?
Who cares if you hair isn’t straight?
Who cares if your mouth isn't always open?
Why do people change?
Why do people hide under a mask?
Are they afraid they won't be accepted anymore?
Who do people shun others who are unlike?
Why do people change?
Is the change for the good of the world?
Or is it for the need to feel wanted?
Why do people feel they aren't good enough?
Are you?
Will you change?
Poets today in what so ever land
Can be agent to inspire anybody
That today we need to understand,
Changes changed us into mediocrity.
Our good values of sharing a hand
To those who need our sympathy,
Like the poor and needy of the land
Who  never had behold the beauty
Of living a life without strife upon
Had turn into a deaf advocacy.
Useless war against humanity,
Erred by poverty across every land,
And the burning fire of other's tyranny,
besets nations to remain us one
Need to be stop to save humanity.
In our own little way, we can be
Agent of change with a conviction
that by the power of our poetry
We can bring peace, love and union
across every land in our world today.
First,  of nature's course, it was the birds;
for theirs the air, above and over all;
knowing by intuition without need of words
as providential, seasoned, sure
as sparrow's fall;
and knowing too
how much to trust to men
who do not even trust each other.
It was, of nature's course, the snowy eagle
entrusted with the task:
the only bird who may look straight into the sun; and thus
to whom that message might be given, to ask,
to pass on to his lord; the only bird
whose plumage may reflect the sun's majestic rays,
and live; perhaps to bring a message back.
As to the message - was it just a sprig
of leaves from tallest tree - polluted, withered, black as crow?
or was it something inner in the words
as spoken on the flight from wintry sun to warmth, or
warmth to Northern spring?
They watched, the conference of the silent birds,
while snowy eagle, like the teepee's early morning smoke,
ascended higher, higher, into the sun's great eye,
which never man - eagle alone - may see;
and... do birds hope?
Or as the twilight falls upon the earth, accept
that what shall be, shall be?
I saw a Priest in beetle black
Come to our golden beach,
And I was taken sore aback
Lest he should choose to preach
And chide me for my only wear,
A "Gee" string and a brassière.
And then I saw him shyly doff
And fold his grim soutane,
And one by one his clothes take off,
Until like any man
He stood in bathing trunks, a sight
To thrill a maiden with delight.
For he was framed and fashioned like
Apollo Belvedere;
I felt my heart like cymbal strike
Beneath my brassière.
And then the flounce of foam he broke,
And disappeared with flashing stroke.
We met. 'Twas in the billows roll.
Oh how he sang with joy;
But not a hymn, - a merry troll
With gusto of a boy.
I looked, and lo! the priest was gone,
And in his place a laughing faun. . . .
Today confession I have made.
The Father's face was stern,
And I was glad that in the shade
Mine he could not discern . . .
He gave me grace - but oh the bliss,
The salty passion of his kiss!
There is a wistfulness in the breeze
That caresses my hair
And the warmth of the autumn sun
Stirs a longing in my soul -
Where did the time go?
I recall days of endless wonder
Never at a loss for adventure
Experience filled my days
With joy and sorrow -
I never thought it would end;
Now I treasure every moment
Holding them close to my heart
Making deep impressions
To last me through the winter
For spring may never come;
And you will be the one thought
That will carry me through the night
Stay close, my love,
Whisper soft and sweet
The words I'll always remember.
There was a sound upon the wind
A joyous melody
Which sang a tune of gratitude
Spiced with a hint of glee
It whispered with the breath of spring
Come to empower soul
For all who cared to listen to
Its satisfying toll
Sweet as bells on Sunday
Announcing heavens berth
Sailing past on golden rays
To sing of Peace on Earth
Angelic annotation
Delivered with the rain
Transported via rainbows
Has set us free again
With just one note…
On a lazy Sunday afternoon,
the sun shone so brightly...
appearing like a large blazing
iridescent quarter.
.
Hovering over the quiet city,
the glowing sphere gave so much,
life to the dull muted blue sky,
so much warmth-and promise!
To the old woman whose body
earlier had been aching...
and whose mind was sluggish...
this was just what she needed.
The sun and the feeling that summer
was arriving soon whisked away
the memory of her 'Winter' days,
suspended in mid-air-it gave her Joy!
While Glistening into the windows
of her tired and weary soul...
she stood up in one brisk move
on the rickety weathered balconey.
Although Her perennials had not yet
surfaced, Myra began removing foliage
from her cracked chipped window box...
all while smiling and singing happily.
Taking it all in...breathing deeply,
yet softly, the old woman  realized,
she had made it through again,
another year passed-without her late friend.
Written on February 28th 2008.
Broken indifference, traded for a whisper of defiance
A marginal decline in the pressure applied
Freedom, a memory enhanced with a casing of non truth
Equality, the right to die extended to all
Raise your voice and lift your glass
sip the poison of the past
Union tyranny, sweetened with conformity
A blend compelling, to the core of your ignorance
Cease now your flamboyant posturing and pause
Enchant me with chains in the name of your cause
Sleepless nights I offer to you
How long can stay the happiness?
How long can stay the sadness?
Nothing in this world can go always up
Nothing in this world can go only down.
Nothing in this world remains the same forever.
As the day changes to night,
And the night changes to day.
As the cold changes to warm,
and warm changes to cold.
As this natural law always changes everything,
up to down and down to up.
So long as there is nothing without an opposite, smile...
The Death will change to Birth!
No, Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change.
Thy pyramids built up with newer might
To me are nothing novel, nothing strange;
They are but dressings of a former sight.
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire
What thou dost foist upon us that is old,
And rather make them born to our desire
Than think that we before have heard them told.
Thy registers and thee I both defy,
Not wond'ring at the present, nor the past,
For thy records, and what we see doth lie,
Made more or less by thy continual haste:
This I do vow and this shall ever be:
I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.
Change you can your hair color, not your skin;
Change you can your smile and grin: not your eyes;
Change you can your sex partners, not your kin;
Change you can your sinful life: Be soul-wise!
Change you can your friends and foes, not parents;
Change you can your teacher/guide, not your brain;
Change you can your exam-marks, not talents;
Change you can your habits bad and be sane.
Change you can the environment, not the sun;
Change you can the landscape old, not the soil;
Change you can your temperament and not run;
Change you can your heart and mind: you must toil.
Change you can your ambitions but be brave;
Change you can your life-styles much but behave!
6-3-2001
The world of men, women and children, change;
Their food-habits and dressing styles may change;
Their ways of talking, walking, laughing, change;
But Bible’s words are true and never change!
Man’s outlook and his sense of values change;
The weather, climate, seasons also change;
The water of rivers and seas may change,
But Scripture’s words are true and never change!
Man’s needs in life and ambitions may change
Man’s occupations, moral values, change
Man’s goals and approaches also may change,
But Holy Scripture’s words will never change.
The devils too, their tempting tactics, change;
God’s love for man is same and will not change.
POOR River, now thou'rt almost dry,
What Nymph, or Swain, will near thee lie?
Since brought, alas! to sad Decay,
What Flocks, or Herds, will near thee stay?
The Swans, that sought thee in thy Pride,
Now on new Streams forgetful ride:
And Fish, that in thy Bosom lay,
Chuse in more prosp'rous Floods to play.
All leave thee, now thy Ebb appears,
To waste thy sad Remains in Tears;
Nor will thy mournful Murmurs heed.
Fly, wretched Stream, with all thy speed,
Amongst those solid Rocks thy Griefs bestow;
For Friends, like those alas! thou ne'er did'st know.
And thou, poor Sun! that sat'st on high;
But late, the Splendour of the Sky;
What Flow'r, tho' by thy Influence born,
Now Clouds prevail, will tow'rds thee turn?
Now Darkness sits upon thy Brow,
What Persian Votary will bow?
What River will her Smiles reflect,
Now that no Beams thou can'st direct?
By watry Vapours overcast,
Who thinks upon thy Glories past?
If present Light, nor Heat we get,
Unheeded thou may'st rise, and set.
Not all the past can one Adorer keep,
Fall, wretched Sun, to the more faithful Deep.
Nor do thou, lofty Structure! boast,
Since undermin'd by Time and Frost:
Since thou canst no Reception give,
In untrod Meadows thou may'st live.
None from his ready Road will turn,
With thee thy wretched Change to mourn.
Not the soft Nights, or chearful Days
Thou hast bestow'd, can give thee Praise.
No lusty Tree that near thee grows,
(Tho' it beneath thy Shelter rose)
Will to thy Age a Staff become.
Fall, wretched Building! to thy Tomb.
Thou, and thy painted Roofs, in Ruin mixt,
Fall to the Earth, for That alone is fixt.
The same, poor Man, the same must be
Thy Fate, now Fortune frowns on thee.
Her Favour ev'ry one pursues,
And losing Her, thou all must lose.
No Love, sown in thy prosp'rous Days,
Can Fruit in this cold Season raise:
No Benefit, by thee conferr'd,
Can in this time of Storms be heard.
All from thy troubl'd Waters run;
Thy stooping Fabrick all Men shun.
All do thy clouded Looks decline,
As if thou ne'er did'st on them shine.
O wretched Man! to other World's repair;
For Faith and Gratitude are only there.
She leaned out into the soft June weather,
With her long loose tresses the night breeze played;
Her eyes were as blue as the bells on the heather:
Oh, what is so fair as a fair young maid!
She folded her hands, like the leaves of a lily,
'My life, ' she said, 'is a night in June,
Fair and quiet, and calm and stilly;
Bring me a change, O changeful moon!
'Who would drift on a lake forever?
Young hearts weary - it is not strange,
And sigh for the beautiful bounding river;
New moon, true moon, bring me a change! '
The rose that rivalled her maiden blushes
Dropped from her breast, at a strangers feet;
Only a glance; but the hot blood rushes
To mantle a fair face, shy and sweet.
To and fro, while the moon is waning,
They walk, and the stars shine on above;
And one is in earnest, and one is feigning -
Oh, what is so sweet as a sweet young love?
A young life crushed, and a young heart broken,
A bleak wind blows through the lovely bower,
And all that remains of the love vows spoken -
Is the trampled leaf of a faded flower.
The night is dark, for the moon is failing -
And what is so pale as a pale old moon?
Cold is the wind through the tree tops wailing -
Woe that the change should come so soon.
Time or fate may separate friends, lovers,
But friendship or love that's true will ever
Thenceforth continue to live forever,
True love conquers the odd with its power.
As time passes by, things change with the time,
Every moment, hour, day, month, and year,
All things have their turn to change with the time,
Life, time, and events change with the years.
Everyone, everything, have a time and day,
A time to change, end, begin a new day,
Change is life, the course of life everyday,
All things change, and we change with them all days.
Only the Eternal one is constant,
All things in the universe, inconstant,
But despite it all, love is important,
The world may change, but true love is constant.
How bless'd Thy creature is, O God,
When with a single eye,
He views the lustre of Thy Word,
The dayspring from on high!
Through all the storms that veil the skies
And frown on earthly things,
The Sun of Righteousness he eyes,
With healing on His wings.
Struck by that light, the human heart,
A barren soil no more,
Sends the sweet smell of grace abroad,
Where serpents lurk'd before.
The soul, a dreary province once
Of Satan's dark domain,
Feels a new empire form'd within,
And owns a heavenly reign.
The glorious orb whose golden beams
The fruitful year control,
Since first obedient to Thy WOrd,
He started from the goal,
Has cheer'd the nations with the joys
His orient rays impart;
But, Jesus, 'tis Thy light alone
Can shine upon the heart.
time and fate may separate friends and lovers
but friendship or love that's true will live forever
true love conquers all odds with patience
and hope keeps them alive forever
Grandma used to tell us all
things of this world will change with time
since all things have their turn to change
the sick has a time to heal
while the poor will come to wealth with time
in this world events change with the years
and the seasons will surely come and go
so everything has its time and day
so wait on time to begin a new day
to change the course of your life
for if you look around you
nothing in the universe is constant,
only true love is forever faithful
So life has handed you  sour grapes,
They're bitter and hard to swallow -
But you'll be just fine
Sour grapes make good wine
If you throw in enough sweet sugar;
So lemons are the fruit of the day,
So sour your lips start to pucker -
Just make lemonade
A tall glass in the shade
Will refresh on a hot summer day;
So your garden has grown green tomatoes,
That just won't turn red in the sun -
Fry them up in a pan
Make some relish to can
What a wonderful change of taste!
Whenever life throws you a curve ball
When you were expecting a hit -
Then you should be guessin'
You're learning a lesson................................
It's time for a change of scenery.
The face I see
In the looking glass
Is not the face I see
In my heart.
The woman I see
In the mirror now
Is not the girl I see
In my heart.
The face I see
In the looking glass
Is lined with the cares
Of the world,
The hair is silver,
The eyes dimmed,
The face is aged,
And the mouth is thin.....
But the face I see
In heart and memory
Is as radiant, as youthful,
As the day I met you.
Scarlett Treat
January 25,2008
I thank you profusely,
From the depths of my heart,
For promoting me, at last,
To Professor cadre.
If it had been earlier,
It would have been better;
It could have been better,
But it doesn’t matter.
Yet, was it in my fate?
I’as unique till date;
Was it because of others?
Whom I thought were brothers!
What’s past is past;
When things looked aghast;
But we know truth will last;
Though the world is fast.
But I am very glad,
That I’m no longer sad;
My image that seemed bad,
Is better now on pad.
Not a visit, I’ad made;
I call a spade a spade;
And I’as ne’er afraid,
Nor did I look for aid.
And all I know is this,
‘A man aright has bliss’
Though cruel be world’s kiss;
And things do go amiss.
When God is by my side;
And I in Him abide;
And truth is my great pride;
The stormy waves, I ride!
But why such things happen?
And why men jump the fen?
All fruits one day ripen;
All wells, one must deepen.
Why men choose easy routes?
Can one wear always boots?
We eat our parent’s fruits;
And go about in suits!
But shouldn’t we change for good?
Too much is poison-food;
And why to fret and brood?
And why to wear a hood?
Our stay on earth is short;
And life can well abort;
Lets change our minds and heart;
And practice genuine art.
All men are just brothers;
Lets think about others;
Some beasts do need feathers;
A thing with time weathers.
Don’t believe what some say;
Each man will have his day;
We go in God’s way;
Or for our blunders pay!
Lets make this world of men,
And things uneven, even;
Lets make the earth, Heaven;
In time that’s God-given!
A very wise person once wrote that it’s
The choices we make that define the person we are.
The decision you’ve made to change your name
Is one of the most important choices you’ll ever make —
Something no one else can do for you.
Just like the butterfly that emerges from the chrysalis,
Changing your name heralds a new stage in your life.
Like the butterfly, may you go out into this world
With pride, with courage, and with the certain knowledge that
Your new name has added meaning and purpose to your life.
Since Persia fell at Marathon,
The yellow years have gathered fast:
Long centuries have come and gone.
And yet (they say) the place will don
A phantom fury of the past,
Since Persia fell at Marathon;
And as of old, when Helicon
Trembled and swayed with rapture vast
(Long centuries have come and gone),
This ancient plain, when night comes on,
Shakes to a ghostly battle-blast,
Since Persia fell at Marathon.
But into soundless Acheron
The glory of Greek shame was cast:
Long centuries have come and gone,
The suns of Hellas have all shone,
The first has fallen to the last: --
Since Persia fell at Marathon,
Long centuries have come and gone.
Change is inevitable,
But yet we fight it, just the same.
Change is essential to our evolution.
Change is going to happen,
In fact, it happens every day,
Maybe it is too small to see, or perhaps we would rather not see it.
We fight change, because we fight the unknown,
We fight the unknown, because we are scared,
Scared of change, scared of the unknown.
If we were to allow change to happen freely,
We might find solutions to the problems that exist around us,
But instead, we are hung - up on controlling everything around us.
Maybe this is the problem with the world today.
Everyone assumes control of everything and does not allow nature to run her course.
Maybe this is why, we have devastating fall out from Nature,
Natural catastrophic disasters, such as fire and flooding.
We fight change, therefore we are fighting nature and her natural being and her existence
in the world that she has created by God's hand and has graciously allowed us to be a
part of.
We should welcome change and allow nature to control our destiny.
Change is uncontrollable,
Change is inevitable,
Change is the unknown.
Nature takes pride in being one of life's illusive wonders, the unknown.
Near to the ocean
Close to my heart
Calm one day
Cyclone another
The waves with regularity
crash
break
spraying spray
Day after day
Near to the ocean
Close to my heart
"Welcome" change... but then
Everything resumes its course
These fresh beauties, we can prove,
Once were virgins, sick of love,
Turn'd to flowers: still in some,
Colours go and colours come.
1.
What will happen to change?
Will change change as all things?
Or will it develop immunity
And embrace hypocrisy?
Will change resist change
And go against its doctrinaire?
Why, will change change not
Should nothing be permanent, even change?
Since change is also a thing.
2.
Our world changes daily by seconds
Our lives in the roller-coaster of time
The noon gives way to the moon
The dawn turns dusk
At intersections of these:
One enters, another exits
One moans, another mourns
One rejoices, one regrets
In the spate and space of time;
A jungle becomes a haven
The oblivious became renowned
Riches become ruins
All on the altar of change
The wind of change
Blows through our days
Sometimes can leave
Our minds with haze
When thinks do not
Go as expected
It is easy to feel
Quite dejected
If we live
With love inside
And never faith
We compromise
We can bring
Our dreams to reality
Transform that haze
Into clarity
Wind of change
Can be uplifting
Promising
And also gifting
A chance for
Love and new beginnings
When you believe
You end up winning
A solitary stunted bud
In a barren garden
Of repressed desires
Parched to the core
And in need of love
To rejuvenate its being
Blossomed at the very hint
Of the touch
Of the friendly West Wind
Trumpeting the arrival of Spring
In its seemingly eternal
Autumnal existence.
Imagine this,
If a single hint of breeze
Could bring to life
This long dead bud
What would an Eternal Spring
Do to it?
Caress it out of its
Vegetative existence?
Fill it with fragrance?
Promise that it would never ever
Let autumn set in?
Or is it too early for the hopeful bud
To surmise the intent of Spring?
(16th April,2007)
Nothing will stay forev’r the same:
Sky, earth, land, sea, vale, mountain, air;
The honest souls, why should all blame?
Let things happen, why should we care?
The sky will change and come will rain;
The soil with seed will sprout again;
A plant will grow quite speedily;
A mighty tree will stand truly!
With roots so deep, good fruits to reap;
And branches stout and strong will peep; .
And it will live a hundred years,
And lauded be, much more than peers.
And give all shade, yet not be paid;
While birds build nest and gladly rest.
The world will say on its D-Day:
Oh, what a tree and go away!
Yeah, things are done by word of God
In heaven, earth by same one Lord;
The world today though unfair be,
Cannot stay so for long surely.
For, winds of change will blow some day,
And truth will have its final say;
And acknowledge will people all:
’Tis best to heed to Maker’s call.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 12-8-2001
You cannot change the past 'tis gone forever
And worrying only turns your hair to gray
And remember 'tis the future's all that matter
For we cannot change what happened yesterday.
Don't harbour grudges for grudges only harm you
For a grudge like a cancer only grow
ill feeling on you can become a burden
And you'll feel happier when you leave your grudges go.
Karma will take care of all wrongdoers
And all of those who harm others in any way
Will one day for their mistakes feel regretful
When to karma they will have a price to pay.
You cannot change the past what's done is over
Before we walked we had to learn to crawl
And from the book of life we're always learning
And the future's all that matter after all.
The past is gone and the past is past changing
And let bygones be bygones so it has been said
And put more of your thought energy into your future
For your happier days for you might be ahead.
Your love
was worth millions
but as the Royal Mint
admitted
it is like the lost loose change
of Britain
(apparently there's
£26 million of it)
just lying about
... out there
... somewhere.
So far, I have picked up
£6 and nine pence worth of you.
Swami Vivekananda’s train
Reached Chicago Station
Late in the evening time.
None came to receive him.
He had lost the address
Of the head of delegates,
And there was no one
To give him information.
In that strange foreign land,
None gave a helping hand.
As his dress appeared peculiar,
They took him as a wanderer.
On the sidewalk, he sat.
A lady saw his pitiable plight
Gave him food and shelter,
As her guest of honor.
Mrs. George W. Hale was
That kind lady, his hostess,
Who took him to the Office
Of Parliament of Religions.
Dr. J.H. Barrows was
One of her friends.
As well as the President
Of that Parliament.
The President invited him
To represent Hinduism
And he was then free from
The admission problem
Both the kind hearted families
Of Hale and John B Lyons
Became his lifelong friends
And he stayed in their house.
It was the mercy of God
That, in fact, guided
This well deserving soul,
For his ‘ever-sincere’ role.
Amidst all his difficulties
There came many helpers
As if it was pre-planned
Always by the will of God.
Thursday night basketball at a south side Chicago park,
Gunfire amidst chaos as shots echoed loudly in the dark,
Our culprits? DreadLocked men in a dark colored sedan,
The tally would have been even greater had some not ran.
Mr. George Zimmerman did not get dressed up in a wig,
Isn’t this incident & those like it worse than what he did?
How many Black Entertainers boycott Chicago, Illinois?
And why wasn’t this 3-year old home playing with toys?
Ok, Chicago’s the, “Murder Capital” of our society but alas,
Is there any truth to less gun violence if certain bills pass?
Tougher sentences & extended penalties with stiffer fines,
Enough of time off for good-behavior do every bit of time.
Julian Harris told the Sun-Times culprits shot at him first,
He escaped unharmed while his nephew received the worst,
3 are in critical condition with 10 reported serious or fair,
So late at night what in the heck was a toddler doing there?
Looking back at Delbert (88)     Belton and Christopher (22)     Lane,
In a car, jogging alongside a road now playing a basketball game,
All innocent victims to say the least but notice it is not confined,
First offense or not, a conviction of CCW requires serious time.
A gun’s no more dangerous than a car when the vehicle’s parked,
An idiot behind the wheel is dangerous in daylight & in the dark,
Police officials declined to discuss details of the investigation so far,
One thing’s certain, it involves 2 deadly instruments, a gun & a car.
Shooting hoops at, “Back Of The Yards” before this incident begins,
Was there anyone in Chicago on the lookout for George Zimmerman?
The city’s, “Labor Day Weekend” 20 were injured while 8 fell dead,
NAACP is still crying foul about Sanford, Fla. I’m shaking my head.
AND so one day he got fed up
Worrying about his bills
Light, cell phones,
Apartment rents
Meals and what to eat
Next month
No money to
Send to the
Philippines
There is no work coming
And the old man he took care of
Died a month ago
Bad luck
He is vacant
He could not go to the malls
There is no money left for the week
And there is no work coming
No one is offering to help
And he worries
About his telephone bills
His credit card
His rent
His SSS
His unrenewed passport
His expiring visa
His debts
One day he goes outside
It is quite cold
Colder now
The snow is coming
He smokes his cigarette packs on the park
A middle-aged American woman stares and tells her
“Smoking is bad for your health
You are polluting the earth”
Just a little advice
But his head is hot and
Hot temper is what is steaming inside
He is fuming mad to that middle aged American woman
He is also fuming mad about
Himself to be honest
About it
“Shit shit shit, I smoke if I want to
I use my own money to kill myself
F###k YOU!
Mind your own American business
In this free country I can smoke anytime I want! ”.
He knows how to curse now
In the most American way
For just a year or two
he was a timid Filipino
he was the meek citizen
of this world
And he smokes all day in the park
his packs of cigarettes in the park
Puffing and puffing and breathing and breathing
Releasing all his dismays in cold air
He can see his bleeding heart
His cursing
“f##k you! ”
'f$$k you! '
in the freezing air
his cursing is a big bold font
in the atmosphere
His cell phone does not have any load
And he cannot call anybody
And he remembers well the latest old
Jewish rich man which he took care of
who died a month ago
One day the old man fell on the floor
The one who shitted him all day
he still could remember
fully well
all the old man's yell
spell: F$$K YOU! '
The old man could not stand
back
He was big, fat, and dying
He did not help him stand
He merely stood there askance
And the old man shouted and growled
“Shit shit you Filipino
Help me stand from here”
'F$$K YOU FILIPINO! '
And he said
WITH ALL STRICT COMPOSURE
SO SURE OF HIMSELF NOW
with a little authoritative
moral advice
like he was a wise man
“Rich American now is the time
for you to
Command all your mighty dollars
your mighty dollars
your mighty dollars
your mighty dollars
To help you rise and make
You, young and strong again! ”
The old Jewish rich man died
Due to cardiac arrest.
And now he is out of job
No money
No promises
And one day now
He finds himself smoking himself to death
On this cold dark wildlife park south of
Chicago.
Dear Juana,
I am here in Chicago
And I have to wear a thicker jacko
It is very cold here you know
Even without the snow
I am staying with another cousin
In his apartment I chip in
As he is also renting
And I am simply gallivanting
It will take me time
To find work this time
To find work here is still hard
I have to stay longer in the pad
Could be next month perhaps
When cousin Rey gets some mishaps
I will have his work
And hold his fork
I could be working
Probably working
In the home of a Jewish American
Taking care of their old man
I have to tell you
I have to hold his big thing
While He is urinating
I have to wash his anus
And chop his huge “pus”
So it would
In the toilet flush
Just imagine how
The American dung would smell somehow
It wouldn’t smell chocolaty
As you would think it to be
I wish to come back
And forget this life’s lack
But who would pay
My debts in our country?
I wish you all well there
I will have my deals here
To earn for my dollars
And pay for my scholars.
Pray in Jesus name,
It‘s me your only flame.
on a cold winter
a friend in Chicago finally
opens up like
a clam and grabs
a sand that pricks
his tongue
so he can make a
pearl
this Christmas
i ask two questions
which i think are
intrusions to his
privacy
honestly, i am not
interested
he's happy and it is
enough to know
that
what i realize is that
he is happy and he is
no longer interested
about what i ask
or what i say
i quit.
In the mid-city, under an oiled sky,
I lay in a garden of such dusky green
It seemed the dregs of the imagination.
Hedged round by elegant spears of iron fence
My face became a moon to absent suns.
A low heat beat upon my reading face;
There rose no roses in that gritty place
But blue-gray lilacs hung their tassels out.
Hard zinnias and ugly marigolds
And one sweet statue of a child stood by.
A gutter of poetry flowed outside the yard,
Making me think I was a bird of prose;
For overhead, bagged in a golden cloud,
There hung the fatted souls of animals,
Wile at my eyes bright dots of butterflies
Turned off and on like distant neon signs.
Assuming that this garden still exists,
One ancient lady patrols the zinnias
(She looks like George Washington crossing the Delaware),
The janitor wanders to the iron rail,
The traffic mounts bombastically out there,
And across the street in a pitch-black bar
With midnight mirrors, the professional
Takes her first whiskey of the afternoon--
Ah! It is like a breath of country air.
Just for a moment, I visited you in my imagination.
Words of edification swayed my soul, and drew me into your destine place.
I took in the brisk, soft, smooth wind on my face.
I enjoyed imagining being at your lake.
Snow wraps around you, and the air sings to you.
The trees are bare, however my southern soul longs to be there.
A visit is fine with me.
I heard a lot about you, can I get to know you?
Power is your song for people to be reborn.
Thanks for letting me get to know you a little bit,
I'll check with the airlines, and make sure my mind stays sharp, smart, and fit.
OH! My heart you have lit,
Brisk wind in Chicago...
Sallie Marie Tompkins Copyright 2008
Chosen Poetess...
Left my dump, off to the cafe
Ankling it, no need for a hack
I'm a johnnie walker
Stopped a bit to jaw a little
With two wiseheads before work
As we discuss how one of their coffee-and-donut doble
Keep klunking out on them
When I arrived
I poured me a cup of joe
Then took a powder
To find me an ameche
To arrange a get together for tonight
With my tight squeeze
I get back and drink the joe
Shortly afterwards I get jingle-brained
Then I threw a joe
I wake to find me in this heap
Someplace in a back of alley
And was being pulled out by three goons
I recognize them
Once they get me inside their hideout
I'm still jingle-brained
I realized I drunk a mickey finn
Now I'm in a jam
I recognize the butter and egg man
As the baddest gangster in upstate New York
I also recognize the rest of the chopper squad
Who I use to drink out of the same bottle with
Don sends one of his hatchmen to get the seventh
Each one of these numbers were well-heeled
With  Chicago typewriters
Couple of them had dinchers in there kissers
Another asks for one of their ciggies
The big cheese, that comes off as a nance
Tosses his deck to him and tells him to pipe down
Then he slaps my lid of my keyster
I know I'll be grilled about dust I know about
I can see by their get-ups
They have heavy sugar
The hard-boiled gimp tells me to level with him
He thinks I know alot the couple I'm working with
He mentions they're his biggest rival
Who don't want to play ball with him
All I am is a pearl diver in their restaurant
I don't know their potatoes of capers
I tell him he's tooting the wrong ringer
'All I do is wash dishes.'
They don't seem to be in that type of racketeering
Then two bins ankles in
He tells them get in the back
Few minutes later two skirts arrive
'Keep those other two company'
'This is business'
He tells me once he was left holding the bag
He never got his dib from my big cheese
My big cheese according to the head gangster
Gave him the Chinese squeeze
He apparently became my big cheese's patsy
And refered him as a smooth
Need to bring this chin to a conclusion with me still intact
At this time, the gals in the back were giggling
Maybe this joint is wet with giggle water
Mr. Levy then says
'I'll have one of my goons sock your scnozzle, savvy? '
He wants me to rat out
If there were anyone planted on the inside of his operations
As if a pearl diver, like myself know anything
Then a dish with a pretty pan enters
Don then asks her
'Why do you gals always come when I'm doing business
He takes out his bank roll
Which seems to be at least a pair of Cs
Or possibly more
He places some lettuce in her hands
Then suggests she take the other gals out and dry up
She has these big bubs
Which i'd like to put my flippers on
Just then she puts her lips upon his
Then i realize she's his moll
Knowing I shouldn't get dizzy with this dame
I tell him don't get ing bing
Then confess ish kabibble
About neither his nor his rival's bee's wax
Well, jeepers creepers
It's not getting duck soup
In convincing him I know nothing
I believe soon he'll be gashouse with me
Sure enough he put his paws upon my pipes
Which sent my pump to leap out of my pipes
From the heebie jeepies
He pours himself some yack yack bourbon
And then takes a snort of it
He says 'Says you'
'Now start singing, tell me who's the inside guy'
'Or I'll have one of my goons put the broderick on you'
I've remembered I've had sap poison upon my head before
He orders one of his goons to sock my peeper
I get dry gulched
It was so hard I know I have a goog
One of the fellas asks
If he should take me for a one way ride
Then I see him jerking a nod
Just then a Chicago pineapple flys through the window
I think I'll be out of this dump in a Chicago overcoat
One of the goons grabs the Chicago pineapple
Tosses it out of another window
They all begin to burn powder
I duck to stay out of the Chicago lightning
I see lead smashing into everything in sight
One of the fellas takes a shiv to me
Once the Chicago lightning ends
Mr. Levy and his goons are nowheres to be seen
I take to the air
Covering up the Harlem sunset
With a rag that was by the door
Today hasn't been much of a cat's pajamas
I get outside find myself in front of an old hash house
Then I hear 'Grab a little air'
I look around and see buttons
Waving their buzzers at me in one hand
And the other their pieces
Trying to find my roost
one lidded, late afternoon,
the consolation of color
worked up like neediness,
like craving chocolate,
I'm at Art Institute favorites:
Velasquez's "Servant,"
her bashful attention fixed
to place things just right,
Beckmann's "Self-Portrait,"
whose fishy fingers seem
never to do a day's work,
the great stone lions outside
monumentally pissed
by jumbo wreaths and ribbons
municipal good cheer
yoked around their heads.
Mealy mist. Furred air.
I walk north across
the river, Christmas lights
crushed on skyscraper glass,
bling stringing Michigan Ave.,
sunlight's last-gasp sighing
through the artless fog.
Vague fatigued promise hangs
in the low darkened sky
when bunched scrawny starlings
rattle up from trees,
switchback and snag
like tossed rags dressing
the bare wintering branches,
black-on-black shining,
and I'm in a moment
more like a fore-moment:
from the sidewalk, watching them
poised without purpose,
I feel lifted inside the common
hazards and orders of things
when from their stillness,
the formal, aimless, not-waiting birds
erupt again, clap, elated weather-
making wing-clouds changing,
smithereened back and forth,
now already gone to follow
the river's running course.
Chicago Bean
I finally captured
smiles please
it is a wonderful sculpture
worth seeing
You can hear the excitement start to linger as the early morning train departs.
Finally at the station everyone rushes toward the exit like Kaner on a breakaway to the goal.
We all walked to Grant Park like little kids running after an ice cream truck.
You are a part of the sea of red walking through the gates surrounded by police.
Finally, we made it. We are inside the park.
We ran through huge crowds pushing and shoving trying to get to the corner of the street like Andrew Shaw searching for the puck in front of the net.
We all waited anxiously to see our favorite players.
There it is, it’s the Stanley Cup. I can see it shining like the pregame ice on “The Madhouse on Madison”.
You try to take pictures as people scream and jump to get a closer look.
It’s “The” Jonathan Toews, captain of The Chicago Blackhawks, raising ‘The Cup’ to kiss it.
You can see the pride of the 3 million fans as confetti is shot when the players drive by celebrating.
It’s over and you try to get out of the park like Marian Hossa skating out of the penalty box.
You’re stuck in the train station not able to move, surrounded by smelly loud fans for two hours.
Finally the doors open and people push and shove like they are in a hockey fight.
You run onto the train weaving through people to try and save a seat for your friends just as Patrick sharp weaves through players to score goals.
As you leave the station you see everyone slip down into their seats like they just got hit in the face with a puck.
Sing the Chicago
Blues
Sing the Chigago
Blues
Chigago is the windy city
Demons must follow
straight path
through the silver poplar grove-
wise villagers contrive twists
Lo! sacred precincts
'big smelly swamp'
Potawatomi name for place
near hardwood forest-
dinosauer gingko and winged monarchs
thrive next to the swamp
walking the dog
she pauses to look up at me-
a blizzard of scarlet and gold
autumn's splendid death-
master and canine gape in awe
Through all the moving thoroughfares
And in the contending marts of trade;
Within the babbling magazines and
Even as I rode the surcharged vehicles
Which rolled at dizzy onwardness
Without the impulse of the harnessed steed;
During the waking hours, bewhiles
I battled with the reckless wind
And closed my eyes against the tossing clouds
Of vitrified disturbance, soot, dust,
Tattered papyrus and all the medleyed rubbish
Of the city's ways;
All this time, as I again declare,
And likewise in the night, when I,
In company with highty-ti revelers,
Did run with bunches of anticipation
Toward the gleaming letters far above
The portals of Thespis' temple;
And later yet, when all we creatures of the night
Did seek our warm retreats
To feast on rabbits, explosive salads
And the clammy crabmeat of commerce;
All during this long while, as I do now
Most solemnly and fearfully asseverate,
There came to my ear, with never pause,
A soft and hollow rattle.
At times, methought, 'twas like the
Spilling of many dead men's bones
In the adjoining vault. Again,
It seemed more like the tapping '
Of distant castanets — a dream
Of dark-eyed Spanish women, soiled and superb,
Who moved in jerky measures while
The yellow dust rose to obscure
The fierce colors. But, truth to tell,
'Twas neither. Clickety-click, clickety-click,
I heard it yet again, and I asked:
' Is this some dread distemper of the brain,
Some fungus growth in my imaginings?
Do I alone of mortal men distinguish
This smothered clatter, hidden, elusive ?'
When I did full relate my fears
To the good y Esculapius, he said:
' Fear not; 'twas actual sound you heard,
And you are not, as you might well suppose,
Entirely separated from your trolley.'
Continuing, then, with kindly air, he told:
' The tiny rattling sounds which do attend
You and all others in this wintry clime,
Are the concussions of the quinine pellet
Tossing within its pasteboard cage;
For know you well that all men,
Likewise the women and the tender young,
The aged and infirm no more than those
Who claim youth's lusty strength,
The plain and eke the fair,
The rich and humble, frugal and
Improvident, all, all, carry concealed
The potent ammunition of the season;
And as they move upon their daily
Occupations, you hear from underneath
Their woolen garments, toward the Jaeger depths,
Muffled and yet distinct, and always rhythmical,
' Clickety-click, clickety-click, clickety-click,'
The tattoo of the quinine pellet.
Join all the others — take my solemn tip,
Prepare to meet thine enemy, the grip.'
The Chicago style hot dog is
An all beef frankfurter cooked done,
Steamed, boiled or grilled the vendors' biz,
Then put on a poppy seed bun.
Yellow mustard is put on top,
With green sweet pickle relish near.
Then add some white onions, chop, chop,
Tomato slice, dill pickle spear,
Just a dash of celery salt.
Dragged through the garden, so to speak.
But use ketchup, and face the fault
For react havoc that would wreak.
One is living high on the hog,
Chowing down a Chicago dog.
With you,
With, with you,
You,
Only you,
Saw I,
Saw I Chicago dreams,
Chicago dreams
With you,
With, with you,
You,
Only you, you,
You, you,
Only you, only you
Chicago,
Chicago dreams,
Chicago dreams,
My love,
Love,
You holding my hand,
I, I holding yours,
going,
Going around
Chicago,
Chicago,
My love,
Love,
Dreaming
And dreaming,
You and I,
You an I,
I and you,
I and you,
My love,
My love,
I, I with you,
You,
You with me, me,
My love
Going,
Going with
Chicago,
Chicago dreams,
Dreams
And dreaming,
Dreaming together,
Together
Holding the hands,
Holding
The hands,
My love.
Columbia, all hail!
May thy banner ne'er be furled
Till Liberty, with her beauteous rays,
Enlighten all the world.
Columbia, to thee
From every clime we come,
To lay our trophies at thy feet-
Our sunbright, glorious home.
'Twas a lovely autumn morn,
And the leaves were turning red,
And the sturdy oaks and graceful pines
Their branches over-spread;
And the breezes softly swept
The hills and valleys o'er;
And the dew-kissed earth with incense sweet,
Crowned forest, grove and flower.
On a grassy knoll near by
Where the rustling leaves were piled,
Knelt a mighty chief of a mighty tribe,
And his band of warriors wild.
For the rising sun had shown
To the trained eyes of that band,
That vessels three, like white-winged birds,
Were steering straight for land.
Whence comes this stranger fleet?
Whence hails this Pale Face crew?
And the chieftain's brow was wrapped in pain
As his tomahawk he drew.
Then, with quivering voice, he said
Some evil may betide;
From the land of the sky this host has come-
Let's haste to the river side.
And the warriors started forth
Like fawns through the forest trees;
When lo! what a wondrous, solemn sight-
'Pale Faces' on their knees!
Before the Holy Cross,
Each with uncovered brow,
Prayed the mighty God, that His blessings e'er
Might this fair land endow.
And the stalwart braves-awe-struck-,
With heads bowed low on breast
As the veteran sailor proudly cried
San Salvador, the blest!
And this first, grand solemn act
Has been chronicled in heaven;
For, from East to West of this broad, fair land,
Has God's benison been given.
Then hail! bright, sunny land!
Home of the free, the brave!
From the eastern shores to the western plains,
Let thy banner proudly wave.
Nations beyond the seas
Shall worship at thy shrine,
Honor and wealth, and matchless power,
Columbia! be thine.
On October 8th at 9 pm a fire flared from O’Leary’s farm,
In the city of Chicago, fires from hell raged at 9: 40 am when someone pulled the alarm,
Firefighters were sent out to the left when the fires flared to the right,
One flame caught onto another where screams were heard from fright,
The fires spread to houses and sheds from superheated winds,
Winds so powerful it burned through human skin,
From the West of the Chicago River it burned down the local church,
The house of God lit up in flames that in rapid pace flared and lurched,
Until it swarmed southbound to the branch of the river,
Reality was hell on earth the devastation it delivered,
With firewood packed closely next to wooden buildings the storm never calmed,
From Sunday night through Monday morning hell raged fury in napalm,
The flame got bigger and spread across the land,
While the city burned hundreds fell into the fire that ran,
A catastrophe that will forever scar Chicago land,
Fires that grabbed hundreds of innocent lives from hells hand,
Embers from the fire flooded the city streets,
Burned down buildings, houses, and the grounds beneath,
Hell on Earth the fires burned everything in sight,
The sky burned above fires that lit the night,
Firefighters tried to wash it away but couldn’t,
A natural disaster from hell that could cease but wouldn’t,
For two days the Chicago land was lit in flames,
The Great Chicago fire that destroyed the city and took names,
It was until later Monday night that drizzles from the tears in sky calmed the storm,
The beautiful Chicago city to destruction and ruin was the aftermath of transform,
The causalities claimed about 300 lives,
Where fires caught the 300 in a natural disaster comprised,
Never will Chicago forget the flames the scourged the land,
A false tale of a cow kicking over a lantern from the barn that was a scam,
The lives that ate the superheated winds when they ran,
Never will Chicago forget when hell won over the 300 lives of man.
I took you back to my poem
we made words all night long
to the rhythm of the trains
on the track by my window
and the gunshots below
until the sirens were still
and the bag ladies
buried in bags in the snow
Chicago, Chicago
I took you back to my poem
and we rhymed
the whole night through
I feel the tug of life
on my apron strings
the ebb and flow
of the big city.
I feel the wilderness
letting go.
I feel awakening
a ferocity of my own.
I feel the pull of the world
on my bootstraps.
the sites I've yet to see.
I feel my skin
settling in to the skin
of the big city.
I feel my veins pumping with the life
of this new city.
I feel my tissues revitalized,
I feel the virtigo of life
swarming around me.
I feel the call
of the city
even now.
And I must go, to this new place,
and feel life, at a new pace.
11-4-03
Even the skyscrapers
on Lake Shore Drive
somehow look
desolate and desperate
as they peer across
ice floes in the lake
toward April blossoms
somewhere in the neighborhood
of southern Mississippi
My body has changed forever,
The needle piercing my skin,
Making forth an image, the art so clever,
Ink marking my heritage, and my kin.
The needle piercing my skin,
It forms a four-leaved shamrock,
Ink marking my heritage, and my kin,
Watching the clock slowly clicking, tick-tock, tick-tock.
It forms a four-leaved shamrock,
Now forming an orange, white, and green flag,
Watching the clock slowly clicking, tick-tock, tick-tock,
Marking my body, as if it were an Irish tag.
Now forming an orange, white, and green flag,
My body,17 years old, but feeling a new,
Marking my body, as if it were an Irish tag,
For now I’m a walking art, with this new tattoo.
In August,1868,
Was started the Lincoln Park Zoo.
A gift of mute swans did create
The time and place, and did accrue
Gifts of other animals that
Led to the public to support
A safe, protected habitat -
An ark for animals - all sort.
Millions of visitors each year
Come to the Zoo to hear and see
Wonders of wildlife living near.
The visit to the Zoo is free.
The Zoo that's found in Lincoln Park,
Still time and place of wildlife ark.
We're twins - and the most famous in
Downtown Chicago River side.
Sixty story tower - each twin.
Half minute elevator ride.
A corn cob appearance times two.
Apartments - cut pieces of pie,
Each one having a stunning view
Of the Windy City nearby.
Many movies and T.V. shows
Have featured us in varied scene.
Most famous is the car that goes
River splash with us 'twixt and 'tween.
Both of us still sitting pretty,
Rise above Marina City.
the aura of dusk
it walks alone at
segregated paths
you walk
towards a room
which can never
be your home
for your home is here
and there is no
promise
that you will come
back
no one figures out
the reason
for this self
ostracism
if you ask me there
are designs for
happy shapes which
time in some ways
shall teach
us
how to mold and cut
and finally
show
you walk away and
that is the end of
how we can think of you
what we have is a mist
and then
the morning light
takes it
away
i know how cold it is
there
but what can we really do?
Shikaakwa was a stinky plant
In Miami/Illinois land.
When other food sources were scant,
'Twas eaten by the tribal band.
The plants did grow abundantly
Along the shores of a great lake.
When there the natives had to be,
'Twould hold noses for stinky sake.
There was a large river nearby.
Natives could leave fast in canoes.
While being there, most would ask why.
'Twas not the place that most would choose.
This place native wild onions grow,
Grew the city of Chicago.
In Chicago, I am O'Hare,
The international airport.
I am reached by the world by air.
Biggest, busiest - brags I court.
My worst year was '79,
Taking off, Flight One Ninety One
Crashed into a runway of mine.
Hundreds on board - surviving none.
I got my name from a hero,
'Butch' O'Hare, the first flying ace
Who during World War II did go
To destiny in time and place.
ORD about me is what you see,
Cuz ORcharD Field I used to be.
I stand in Chicago's Gold Coast,
1340 North State Parkway.
Hugh Hefner (Hef)  liked me the most,
And bought me for Playboys to stray.
70 rooms for frolic fun,
With the skimpily clad bunnies,
In a classical French mansion,
A basement 'grotto, ' if you please.
I was filled with pleasures galore,
A Playboy could get anything.
Etched in Latin on the front door,
Saying, 'If you don't swing, don't ring.'
Hef left me for lure of L.A.
I'm a bunch of condos today.
I've dreampt of living in Chicago all my life.
I'd roam around and do what I please,
not thinking about yesterday's problem or tomorrow's tasks.
I'd sulk in the energy just thinking about here and now,
not about what's to come or what has passed.
I'd just be in Chicago free and at peace.
Hog Butcher for the World,
Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat,
Player with Railroads and the Nation's Freight Handler;
Stormy, husky, brawling,
City of the Big Shoulders:
They tell me you are wicked and I believe them, for I
have seen your painted women under the gas lamps
luring the farm boys.
And they tell me you are crooked and I answer: Yes, it
is true I have seen the gunman kill and go free to
kill again.
And they tell me you are brutal and my reply is: On the
faces of women and children I have seen the marks
of wanton hunger.
And having answered so I turn once more to those who
sneer at this my city, and I give them back the sneer
and say to them:
Come and show me another city with lifted head singing
so proud to be alive and coarse and strong and cunning.
Flinging magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on
job, here is a tall bold slugger set vivid against the
little soft cities;
Fierce as a dog with tongue lapping for action, cunning
as a savage pitted against the wilderness,
Bareheaded,
Shoveling,
Wrecking,
Planning,
Building, breaking, rebuilding,
Under the smoke, dust all over his mouth, laughing with
white teeth,
Under the terrible burden of destiny laughing as a young
man laughs,
Laughing even as an ignorant fighter laughs who has
never lost a battle,
Bragging and laughing that under his wrist is the pulse,
and under his ribs the heart of the people,
Laughing!
Laughing the stormy, husky, brawling laughter of
Youth, half-naked, sweating, proud to be Hog
Butcher, Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat, Player with
Railroads and Freight Handler to the Nation.
with redded toes, she's
jumping on the lake.
with steeled smoke, she
chokes the jumped rope and the
seen saw.
with a million downtown-
ish eyes, she marries Apathetic
Smile to Prejudiced Laugh.
with a heart blossomed
from a hellflower, she pats each
holying Church on the head.
with her lamp bragging,
she tiptoes to a basket noisemuchly
under its placing.
with her slip showing, she
makes loving seem no word
but
i remember softly my city
is no bigger than
my star
(May 9,1965)
Call on me! !
Here in the garden of love;
In the land of the living.
Colours of love and life!
Accepting all mankind without racism;
Gains of righteous morals,
Offering peace to the World.
Chicago why do you have to change?
chicago acting so plan
chicago your better than what the people
say your the first thing that comes to mind
chicago is a place being with all kinds
of faces learning about new cases to in
brace the mistakes that people make like acting
fake why chicago?
I watched the Chicago skyline
Become bright at the height of twilight
On a rooftop twenty-nine flights
I felt the daily fight
Die down as the world around
Changed from day to night.
The darkness fell
But failed to consume.
The lights were on with
Humans in full-bloom.
The drinks then poured
That freedom to assume.
On that lonely walk home
You just whistled a pleasant tune.
We watched the Chicago skyline
Until dawn switched on the metro lines
And a million people began moving in time
To their improvised versions of life
Their life, their lives.
Follow the rhythms throughout the day
but only in it's time should you ever stay
Otherwise create one all your own and
prepare to dance with a few or to just dance alone.
Men said at vespers: 'All is well!'
In one wild night the city fell;
Fell shrines of prayer and marts of gain
Before the fiery hurricane.
On threescore spires had sunset shone,
Where ghastly sunrise looked on none.
Men clasped each other's hands, and said
'The City of the West is dead!'
Brave hearts who fought, in slow retreat,
The fiends of fire from street to street,
Turned, powerless, to the blinding glare,
The dumb defiance of despair.
A sudden impulse thrilled each wire
That signalled round that sea of fire;
Swift words of cheer, warm heart-throbs came;
In tears of pity died the flame!
From East, from West, from South and North,
The messages of hope shot forth,
And, underneath the severing wave,
The world, full-handed, reached to save.
Fair seemed the old; but fairer still
The new, the dreary void shall fill
With dearer homes than those o'erthrown,
For love shall lay each corner-stone.
Rise, stricken city! from thee throw
The ashen sackcloth of thy woe;
And build, as to Amphion's strain,
To songs of cheer thy walls again!
How shrivelled in thy hot distress
The primal sin of selfishness!
How instant rose, to take thy part,
The angel in the human heart!
Ah! not in vain the flames that tossed
Above thy dreadful holocaust;
The Christ again has preached through thee
The Gospel of Humanity!
Then lift once more thy towers on high,
And fret with spires the western sky,
To tell that God is yet with us,
And love is still miraculous!
Your violet eyes, your black hair flying in the wind. I glance out the window and see the highway we're on. I wonder when we'll get there. to the city I've choosen to stay for college.
You spoke to me, saying we'll be there soon. You hold my hand on the seat of your truck. The truck you'll be selling, for a motorcycle. i smile, remembering how excited he was when he told me.
Chicago, that's where we're headed. It's where I need to be for college. He parks the truck finally in front of our new apartment. My other roomates aren't there yet, but they will be soon.
Chicago is gorgeous, but I'm not staying long.
Just four years and I'm gone.
There is a place not far from here
A place that I must go
A place to escape all my troubles
The city of Chicago
The place I am right now
Is quite simply a living hell
But I never went to Chicago
So i guess it may be as well
But from What I've heard
It's a very exciting spot
And the place I am right now
Most definitely is not
I need to leave this aria
And I have to make it there
To create a brand new life for myself
And find a person who will care
Yes, I must go to Chicago
To get away from all my deceptions
For I have lead good people to believe
My many misconceptions
Votre foi c'est en ce que vous tenez,
Monstre, le dos tourne aux lacs.
Vous recueillez les villes serrees, aux brides de fer
Noueuses a votre prise gelee.
Mais vos yeux somniferes et sauvages, comme ceux d'un taureau blanc,
Ne se tournent ni a l'Est ni a l' Ouest.
Quelquefois une maladie vous emprend-
Des mouvements convulsifs se passent le long de vous....
Je crois qu'ily ait un enfant geant qui regimbe en vous,
La ou votre sang s'ecoule comme un fleuve sous sa glace.
-'Chicago'.  Lola Ridge.  1924.
I'm goin' to Chicago
I'm goin' back that way, someday
I'm headin' back to Chicago.
I'm goin back to Chicago
And you know I mean to stay
At the Hotel Blackstone when I go.
Though winds may winge and blow
Off th' lake and freeze my face;
Though it may heavily snow
Sideways and hit ten below,
It'll be warm at my baby's place-
That much I do know.
I'm gonna' ride that old Metro
To th' museum down the way-
See Mista's Wood and Georgie Bellows, too.
There I'll sip pernod
All day
And watch the icicles grow
When I go back to Chicago.
Going home
means
warmth and
family and
work and
friends
since childhood
It means
being someplace
that
never changes
at least
in my mind
But in
my haste
I sold
the house
and
gave up
the job
The childhood
friends all
grew up
and
the family
died off
Now
there is
no home
to go to
Narendranath Dutta was born in Calcutta
Chicago brought forth Swami Vivekananda.
Chicago ice nights
on the Loop
peering into windows
of great steaks & chops
smelling glorious
bread & butter
melting in the snowdrifts
tasting frostbitten salads
of the South Side
& warming in the glow
of a Greyhound’s exhaust
drinking steamy coffee
over gloomy
manhole covers
& sampling
apple pie in
dark alleys
of Cicero.
frozen stars crackling
in December wind
snowflakes covering
the very moon-
i head west
I saluted a nobody.
I saw him in a looking-glass.
He smiled--so did I.
He crumpled the skin on his forehead, frowning--so did I.
Everything I did he did.
I said, "Hello, I know you."
And I was a liar to say so.
Ah, this. looking-glass man!
Liar, fool, dreamer, play-actor,
Soldier, dusty drinker of dust--
Ah! he will go with me
Down the dark stairway
When nobody else is looking,
When everybody else is gone.
He locks his elbow in mine,
I lose all--but not him.
The Lincoln Park Zoo reaches out
'Round the Chicago neighborhood,
To share of nature all about,
How human connect can be good,
Ever growing in time and place,
Spreading the truth of nature's worth,
Made better by the human race,
'Round the neighborhood, 'round the Earth.
Within the beauty of Zoo grounds,
Or in endeavors far and wide,
Bettering nature knows no bounds,
Lincoln Park Zoo is filled with pride.
Lincoln Park Zoo phenomenon,
The Pride of Chicago thrives on.
I  live in chicago
A very windy city
But tonight I will dance the Chicago samba
Once again
But when I dance the chicago blues
I sweat like crazy
And I feel like a kid again
But when I hear the chicago samba being played by the local musiciams
In the streets of chicago I get very excited
Because I know that their music cam be  heard also from faraway
And bring me back memories of home
I am surprised by the streets of Chicago
when the palm of winter grips them with snow
as if to forgive the city’s mistakes
and give it a canvas that’s new, white, and clean–
its fingers, the branches on all of the trees
kneading the air that blows in from the lake.
I’ve never lived next to the pulse of the lake
(until I set foot down the side of Chicago)
breathing in through the streets and out through the trees
welcoming the cool of the wet, numbing snow.
It lets my mind slip into thinking it’s clean
as if to personally forgive my mistakes.
“But what have you done to forgive your mistakes? ”
Did I ask this? Or is that the voice of the lake?
Some days, not even does it appear clean,
worn down from its tall standing neighbor, Chicago.
It scrapes at the sky, asking it for more snow
to stick to and freeze the trunks of the trees.
If I were a branch on one of these trees
incapable of making a single mistake,
I’d grab at the sky as it shook out the snow
and grow my roots thick till they tasted the lake.
But I wouldn’t bend to the force of Chicago
that’s constantly keeping me from being clean.
And what does it mean to try to be clean?
I don’t understand the stillness of the trees
when they’re being attacked by the size of Chicago
as if to glorify the city’s mistakes
that glisten like stars at night on the lake
before it all froze and was covered with snow.
Ah! To imagine how long there’s been snow.
How can something this old still feel so clean
and dance through the wind that swoops in from the lake?
Is it the kneading by the spiny branches on trees
trusting that there will be no more mistakes
that leaves these the only pure thing in Chicago?
Here comes the snow that seeks out the trees
Am I now clean? Where are my mistakes?
Chicago belongs where it lay with the lake.
If we tear it apart and I hug you too hard
maybe we can go
back to that Chicago skyline
and not worry about all the monsters and mountains we've seen here.
I'm made of feathers when you breathe out
words I've never wanted to hear
so I am crying out the dust you've left in my chest
I want to catch what you want between my teeth and give it to you
I want to dance until I can build myself back into stone
but I have never been able to dance
when you're not here.
Now I can see how we are so good at failing.
All I want is to go
back to Chicago
so we can be the girls standing where the earth meets the water,
so the tide will never rise if you stand so still,
close your eyes,
only open your mouth
to tell me this is where we belong
and I will clutch your pieces even if they draw blood from my hands,
make me believe we are surviving and
you will never fade again.
If I can't take you with me
I will paint you into the Chicago skyline.
I’m keeping it smooth, stepping so tight,
a Chicago Stepper’s in the house tonight.
It’s the end of the day, I’ve been patiently waiting.
Now I’m headed home to shower and change.
Looking at the guys in their fly gear, checking out
themselves in the mirror.  I see you ladies in your
high stepping heels and you’re looking as good as you feel.
I don’t have to wait until Friday to find what I seek,
In Chi-town there’s a steppers set every day of the week.
I’m haunting the clubs looking for the crowd
to hit the floor, stepping proud.
All the heavy hitters out to shine,
if you want to step with them you gotta get in line.
I don’t even play and I can’t rest
as I’m taking notes from the best of the best.
I feel the beat of the music as I stay on count,
when it’s all done right there’s no coming down.
I’m keeping it smooth, footwork is tight,
‘cause Chicago steppers are out tonight.
Bert Alward
The brawling voices babble as before
Though one is hushed : the noblest and the best
Is taken from our midst, and yet the rest
Still fight, and shout and wrangle on the floor.
But we shall never feel his presence more.
Nor hear his merry laugh and constant jest :
The Shades have welcomed an unwilling guest,
And darkness hides him on the farther shore.
Ah, cruel Death, why dost thou joy to show
Thy power by striking down the young and fair,
Letting the weak and old escape the blow ?
Restore thy victim we so ill can spare !
Nay, for 'tis best, and thus he shall not know
Old age, disease or poverty or care.
So good to be home
and out of the heat.
All those excess people reminded I'm alone
as I explored the busy Chicago streets.
So good to be mild
and not full of heat.
All those old buildings reminded I'm only a child
as I explored the ancient Chicago streets.
So good to be recognized
and not sweating in the heat.
All those dollars spent reminded me of the love I'm still denied.
as I explored the poor Chicago streets.
So good to be back from running away
and back from the heavy, humid heat.
All of the luggage and vacations reminded me problems come to stay.
as I left, for a long time, those Chicago streets.
Living a dream,
watching as the days go by.
The boys up the street watching,
as another drug buy goes down.
Everyone sharing in its poison.
Needles on the ground.
Heaven is one step from excepting,
another high flyer.
Powder, pills, liquer, its all the same.
One person will hit his knees tonight,
enjoying the rush and pain.
Remember it's not the price you pay,
but rather the enjoyment of the chase.
Go ahead and dream my borthers and sisters.
Because one day is coming,
that is never forgotten.
The day we all cry when you pass away.
I was travelling the new world
and on my way from north to south
I found myself in Chicago
I saw the sunrise and forgot about you
It shone a different light
and I escaped you - there is someone else on my mind for now
It brought to light the windy city,
cold and bleak,
like the embers of you and me
I knew I was off to a better places
where the sun shines, clearing my head
there you fade with the setting sun
First of all, did not 3 Black teens savagely beat & stomp a kid who is White?
On a Public School Bus no less in Florida while the driver watched the fight?
This innocent 13 year old kid received two black eyes and a fractured hand,
No Al Sharpton, no Jesse Jackson but the march on D.C they helped plan.
Of all indignities, The Chicago Teachers Union is going in unified support,
The Travyon killing but not Black murders in Chicago, they should abort,
Because for every 1 young Martin since that fateful Sanford, Florida day,
Hundreds of Blacks in their city have been shot close to 100 passed away.
Does Al’s, “National Action Network” & Jesse’s, “Rainbow Coalition, ”
Really have a united cause or do they only supply Racist ammunition?
Whereas, this White youth viciously attacked by three older Black teens,
Sparked very little if any outrage by these guys seeking support in green.
Donations to the cause are sought online, in church, in person, at rallies,
Nationally, Blacks killing Blacks in the thousands, the death toll tallies,
The four children of Martin Luther King Jr. also will be hosting as well,
Wondering if the senseless beating by 3 Blacks on 1 White any will tell?
August 21-28, is celebrating 50 years since MLK’s, “I Have A Dream, ”
Would Martin not berate those responsible for killing and beating a teen?
The Chicago Labor Freedom Riders bus trip is merely a slap in the face,
School begins August 26, yet some teachers are absent, what a disgrace.
A mass email sent to the entire Chicago Teachers Union, urges a protest,
Attend the march for foreclosures, the verdict, not students doing their best?
“We are marching for Trayvon, jobs, schools, health care, justice & dignity, ”
Ok, should not these educators begin not in D.C. but their own community?
A Black Cleveland RTA Bus Driver left his seat when a girl spit in his face,
But the Black school bus driver sat on his butt in Florida, what a disgrace,
This driver in Cleveland stood up for his rights and he should be rehired,
Yet the coward in Florida who barely raised his voice needs to be fired.
“Highlights the structural racism in our society, ” the email beseeches as well,
May they be referring to the continued attack on the White teen after he fell?
“Mass incarceration of our youth, ” is another of the Teachers Union concerns,
Possibly they’ll begin by teaching respect is only given after it’s been earned.
I got my name, most people say,
Cuz el train tracks went round and round.
And so tiz just a friendly way
To reference me where I be ground.
But my boundaries really bode
From Lake Michigan on the east,
And then south to Roosevelt Road.
On north and west my sides are creased
By the Chicago River flow.
I'm filled with lots of old and new
Fact and fiction the world does know.
There is no end to points of view.
I am the home to quite a group -
Downtown Chicago in The Loop.
The Yards was what the world called me.
Where Chicago did meet the meat,
Packed in over a century,
Butchered for all the world to eat.
The Chicago River did pump
Half a million gallons per day.
Loads of beast decay I did dump.
I did smell bad from long away.
Sinclair's 'The Jungle' gave me shame.
Sinatra's 'My Kind of Town' sang.
Sandburg's 'Chicago' gave me fame.
Tourists came to me, just to hang.
I was torn down in progress fate.
All that remains is my main gate.
1893 was the year.
October 28th the night.
The Chicago World's Fair was near
Ending as a great success bright.
Mayor Carter Harrison prepared
A closing speech, wise and witty.
Thanks to the speeches he had aired,
Chicago dubbed the Windy City.
No more would the Mayor speechify.
A deranged assassin did shoot
Three bullets, and the Mayor did die.
The World's Fair's grand ending went mute.
This World's Fair closed on a sad note.
The long speech unheard the Mayor wrote.
Chicago was once
A city of strong shoulders
Times of strong,long gone
© 2018.M.N. Hopkins
To-day, fair Thisbe, winsome girl!
Strays o'er the meads where daisies blow,
Or, ling'ring where the brooklets purl,
Laves in the cool, refreshing flow.
To-morrow, Thisbe, with a host
Of amorous suitors in her train,
Comes like a goddess forth to coast
Or skate upon the frozen main.
To-day, sweet posies mark her track,
While birds sing gayly in the trees;
To-morrow morn, her sealskin sack
Defies the piping polar breeze.
So Doris is to-day enthused
By Thisbe's soft, responsive sighs,
And on the morrow is confused
By Thisbe's cold, repellent eyes.
I was built in 1914
On a Chicago city block.
Wrigley Field had come to the scene,
Where Cubs baseball fever would rock.
Some decades later, ivy grew
Famously on my outfield walls.
Baseball officials made me do
Lights later for the night game balls.
Corner of Clark and Addison,
My main entry marquee does call
Of welcome to some magic fun,
The Friendly Confines beckon all.
Oh when, oh when will ever be
A World Series be played in me?
I
Now tidy your house,
dust especially your living room
and do not forget to name
all your children.
II
Watch your step. Sight may strike you
blind in unexpected places.
The traffic light turns orange
on 57th and Dorchester, and you stumble,
you fall into a vision of forest fires,
enter a frothing Himalayan river,
rapid, silent.
On the 14th floor,
Lake Michigan crawls and crawls
in the window. Your thumbnail
cracks a lobster louse on the windowpane
from your daughter's hair
and you drown, eyes open,
towards the Indies, the antipodes.
And you, always so perfectly sane.
III
Now you know what you always knew:
the country cannot be reached
by jet. Nor by boat on jungle river,
hashish behind the Monkey-temple,
nor moonshot to the cratered Sea
of Tranquillity, slim circus girls
on a tightrope between tree and tree
with white parasols, or the one
and only blue guitar.
Nor by any
other means of transport,
migrating with a clean valid passport,
no, not even by transmigrating
without any passport at all,
but only by answering ordinary
black telephones, questions
walls and small children ask,
and answering all calls of nature.
IV
Watch your step, watch it, I say,
especially at the first high
threshold,
and the sudden low
one near the end
of the flight
of stairs,
and watch
for the last
step that's never there.
With all the violence going on in the world there is one controversy,
And it is not about an Alderman's or Chicago Mayor's idiosyncrasy,
It has to do with all pertinent things notwithstanding, a Chick-Fill-A,
The denial of opening an eatery because of what the owner had to say.
Mind you, this is Chicago where gang violence is on par with Iraq,
Going to public school is like Afghanistan as you might come back,
Certified dead, not from RPG's or IED's but from gunshot wounds,
7 year-old Heaven Sutton killed selling lemonade was way too soon.
Rham Emanuel lashed out at thugs responsible, "Who raised you? "
Well, actually Mr. Mayor, the exact same question is proposed too,
For your agreeing with Alderman Proco "Joe" Moreno on this ban,
As company President Dan Cathy agrees with God & not with man.
'Chick-Fil-A values are not Chicago values, ' this mayor has said,
I should hope so, imagine eating chicken fingers ending up dead,
While drug transactions, car jacking & all felonies continue to rise,
I've never heard of death by gunshot for not turning over your fries.
16 year-old Shakaki Aspy sitting on her porch, shot thrice in her chest,
If this was on the battlefield in a war zone, maybe a bulletproof vest?
Also shot was Leon Cunningham 18, who had been wounded before,
Already confined to a wheelchair no longer able to walk out the door.
First Amendment concerns aren't being violated yet zoning is not a right,
However, "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness is, " so why the fight?
Anyone who finds quoting the bible offensive may they not eat elsewhere?
Mr. Mayor, Mr. Alderman aren't there more serious issues for you to care?
dear mama,
today is your 78th birthday
i can't join you but i am sending a little money
for your party
do not forget to invite our tenants
feed them well
how can i ever forget your birthday?
i am very sorry
i may have quarelled with you
but deep in my heart
mama
i love you very much.
may all sons remember this
as i will always remember it
there is no mother who wishes harm to her children
like you mama
thank you for giving me life
thank you for all the good things
i love you mama
may you have more birthdays to come.
love,
dodong
She participated in the inaugural festivities in Washington, D.C.,
15 years old, King College Prep Marching Band, she would see,
President Barrack Obama & history in the making for a 2nd time,
Back home in Chicago, dismissed from school early, all was fine.
Finished with her exams, huddled under a canopy, avoiding rain,
A local park,2: 30 P.M. with a dozen others, then the shots came,
As a lone gunman jumped a fence then opened fire in the crowd,
And like the aftermath at Sandy Hook, parents weeping out loud.
2 more were shot, probably rival gang members, aimed & missed,
While this scenario has and will play out again, an innocent kiss,
Kiss of death that is, once again the intended only suffer wounds,
The vibrancy of preciousness coupled with promise ends too soon.
Although Pendleton didn't have gang affiliation they were on scene,
Association with the wrong put an end to Hadiya's hopes & dreams,
Some in the group were fellow student members of the volleyball team,
Gunshots sent everyone running from the park amid panic and screams.
Armed with deadly force the gangbanger had no consciousness of life,
Hit or miss, for whatever reason, someone had to pay, wrong or right,
'All of it makes no sense, ' Lakeisha Stewart told the Chicago Tribune,
'She was following (her parents)   rules' but it didn't make her immune.
Very well liked honor student, athlete, majorette at King College Prep,
And yet there is one major factor in these incidents all tend to forget,
Bullets don't have feelings you'll be killed as the target or by chance,
1st The Capital, next on her agenda a trip with classmates to Paris France.
There were 500 known murders in Chicago last year with 42 as of 1/29/13,
Statistics can sometimes be misleading so elaborate exactly what it means,
Well, we can talk about, make and pass however many laws on gun control,
Effect will be minimal if we continue to release convicted killers on parole.
Jay Carney said, 'Obama's prayers are with the family it's a terrible tragedy, '
Here is a better idea, get with Congress and come up with a better strategy,
'She was an amazing person -  always positive, ' classmate Bria Carter said,
So were the 20 elementary kids at Sandy Hook however, they too are dead.
In Germany due to no speed limits it takes 6 months to get a license to drive,
Imagine if it took that long to get gun permits how many more might be alive,
Through proper training and learning of firearms rules along with procedures,
Municipalities could safely arm private citizens and most importantly teachers.
The poetry of the Americas,
Democrat and republican
New York,
Chicago,
Philadelphia,
Write I
The poetry of
Los Angeles,
Washington,
Boston,
New Orleans,
Las Vegas,
Write I.
American vibes and Americanism,
Americas and Americanness,
Write I of
Seattle,
Miami,
Atlanta,
Savannah,
Detroit,
Baltimore,
Portland,
Oklahoma,
Cincinnati,
Write I.
Their vibes, life and culture,
Urbanity and modernity,
Dress and city culture,
Idiosyncrasies and nuances
Of the language,
Styles and manners,
Etiquette and behaviour,
Take I a note of
While striding,
Passing through,
Viewing them,
For my poetic medium
Of expression,
Catching the rhythm of life,
Venting my feelings.
O GOD! in danger's darkest hour,
In battle's deadliest field,
Thy name has been our Nation's tower,
Thy truth her help and shield.
Our lips should fill the air with praise,
Nor pay the debt we owe,
So high above the songs we raise
The floods of mercy flow.
Yet Thou wilt hear the prayer we speak,
The song of praise we sing,--
Thy children, who thine altar seek
Their grateful gifts to bring.
Thine altar is the sufferer's bed,
The home of woe and pain,
The soldier's turfy pillow, red
With battle's crimson rain.
No smoke of burning stains the air,
No incense-clouds arise;
Thy peaceful servants, Lord, prepare
A bloodless sacrifice.
Lo! for our wounded brothers' need,
We bear the wine and oil;
For us they faint, for us they bleed,
For them our gracious toil!
O Father, bless the gifts we bring!
Cause Thou thy face to shine,
Till every nation owns her King,
And all the earth is thine.
Of forthcoming weather no prophet have they,
For the ground hog is there to be seen every day.
People walking, freely talking of many happy days.
But then the wind begins to blow,
and all the angels let down holy snow.
City filled with children playing in the snow,
with twinkles in their eyes as they begin to throw.
Said one kid to another, 'say your prayers my dear brother.'
'Lord, ' said the kid all dressed in red,
'my name lord is, Jimmy George Fred.
Make these things which roam the streets, nice, and sweet,
or freeze off their toes, and hurt their feet. Amen! ! '
Would McDonald be alive if he
were white named John
and not black named Laquan
on his third marriage
he still has preschoolers
at an age where
he is supposed to go
on a Caribbean cruise
or a getaway in the
Bahamas
his first marriage
was a case of betrayal
while he works away
from him
his wife invited her man
in the marital bedroom
his second marriage was
worst
the woman turns out to
be a lesbian
his third marriage is a kind
of suspense
ten years younger than
his actual age
and bearing him
for now three children
and he is looking still
for more spills
on his third marriage
he still has preschoolers
at an age where
he is supposed to go
on a Caribbean cruise
or a getaway in the
Bahamas
his first marriage
was a case of betrayal
while he works away
from home
his wife invited her man
in the marital bedroom
his second marriage was
worst
the woman turns out to
be a lesbian
his third marriage is a kind
of suspense
ten years younger than
his actual age
and bearing him
for now three children
and he is looking still
for more thrill
Where will the lovely lady go
on her diurnal walk?
One child in 30 years she bore,
now they do not talk.
Supple, firm, her lithe legs are,
young men wheel and gawk.
A husband left her money, though,
a poodle, too, to walk.
know what?
to have my own baby
is really an obsession
i made an attempt
w/ a young puerto rican
(now in her 37 yrs)
divorcee in 2006;
she got preggy in 2008
but had a miscarriage after 12 wks! ;
Felt proud but angry!
We ended up the affair last 2009 Feb;
Moved to Chicago Aug 24/10;
filed divorce in Jan/11/11(WIsconsin):
Final judgment last June 10/11;
Now back to solo flight....
(oh the pangs of pride and anger!)
...I want my life to be an open book;
some kind of legacy to
and for the coming generation -
religious and otherwise;
the 'don't follow' kind of thing;
I have an 'open secret' hurting
and disgusting experience
w/c affected my self-formation
and outlooks!
It's an open secret because
the last to know about it is my family!
Not even my own deceased father (6/5/2005)
knew about what happened to me
after they sent me to the parochial high school
in nearby town!
It's what I called a 'betrayal of trust! '
Of Compton I'm not the least bit afraid!
To the thought of Chicago I drink cool aide or lemonade!
Cosa Nostra, by them I could never die!
The FBI, like standing next to a fly
Harmless! No chess move! Truth is, I'm immortal peace!
My life, like the universe, will never decease! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
Of Compton I'm not the least bit afraid!
To the thought of Chicago I drink Kool-Aid or lemonade!
Cosa Nostra, by them I could never die!
The FBI, like standing next to a fly
Harmless! No chess move! Truth is, I'm immortal peace!
My life, like the universe, will never decease! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
I sit on the Water Tower waiting
chapped hands in a visor over my eyes
looking toward Durham
hoping I see
you in that gossamer gown
on the road to Chicago.
I don't care if you stop
by Confederate streams
to pick phallic rocks
so long as you rise
release all your hair
and float on to Chicago.
No more will I sit
on the Water Tower waiting.
I'd rather go blind
than see through the sun
you in that gown
ascend in the air
pirouette in the wind
giggle again and
float back to Durham.
'My age, my beast!' - Osip Mandelstam
On the lips a taste of tolling we are blind
The light drifts like dust over faces
We wear masks on our genitals
You've heard of lighting cigarettes with banknotes we used to light ours with Jews
History is made of bricks you can't go through it
And bricks are made of bones and blood and
Bones and blood are made of little tiny circles that nothing can go through
Except a piano with rabies
Blood gushes into, not from, our wounds
Vietnamese Cuban African bloods
Constellations of sperm upon our bodies
Drunk as dogs before our sons
The bearded foetus lines up at the evolution-trough
Swarmy bloods in the rabid piano
The air over Chicago is death's monogram
This is the Were-Age rushing past
Speed: 10,000 men per minute
This is the species bred of death
The manshriek of flesh
The lifeless sparks of flesh
Covering the deep drums of vision
O new era race-wars jugular-lightning
Dark glance bursting from the over-ripe future
Know we are not the smilelines of dreams
Nor the pores of the Invisible
Piano with rabies we are victorious over
The drum and the wind-chime
We bite back a voice that might have emerged
To tame these dead bodies aid wet ashes
'My age, my beast!' - Osip Mandelstam
On the lips a taste of tolling we are blind
The light drifts like dust over faces
We wear masks on our genitals
You've heard of lighting cigarettes with banknotes we used to light ours with Jews
History is made of bricks you can't go through it
And bricks are made of bones and blood and
Bones and blood are made of little tiny circles that nothing can go through Except a piano with rabies
Blood gushes into, not from, our wounds
Vietnamese Cuban African bloods
Constellations of sperm upon our bodies
Drunk as dogs before our sons
The bearded foetus lines up at the evolution-trough
Swarmy bloods in the rabid piano
The air over Chicago is death's monogram
This is the Were-Age rushing past
Speed: 10,000 men per minute
This is the species bred of death
The manshriek of flesh
The lifeless sparks of flesh
Covering the deep drums of vision
O new era race-wars jugular-lightning
Dark glance bursting from the over-ripe future
Know we are not the smilelines of dreams
Nor the pores of the Invisible
Piano with rabies we are victorious over
The drum and the wind-chime
We bite back a voice that might have emerged
To tame these dead bodies aid wet ashes
1
“Limon tree very pretty
And the limon flower is sweet
But the fruit of the poor lemon
Is impossible to eat”
In Riverside we saved the oranges first (by smudging) and left
the lemons last to fend for them selves. They didn’t usually
A no good crop. Smudge-pots
Didn’t rouse them. The music
Is right though. The lemon tree
Could branch off into real magic. Each flower in place. We
Were sickened by the old lemon.
2
Pieces of the past arising out of the rubble. Which evokes Eliot
and then evokes Suspicion. Ghosts all of them. Doers of no
good.
The past around us is deeper than.
Present events defy us, the past
Has no such scruples. No funeral processions for him. He died
in agony. The cock under the thumb.
Rest us as corpses
We poets
Vain words.
For a funeral (as I live and breathe and speak)
Of good
And impossible
Dimensions.
3
In the far, fat Vietnamese jungles nothing grows.
In Guadacanal nothing grew but a kind of shrubbery that was
like the bar-conversation of your best friend who was
not able to talk.
3
Sheets to the wind. No
Wind being present.
No
Lifeboats being present. A jungle
Can’t use life-boats. Dead
From whatever bullets the snipers were. Each
Side of themselves. Safe-
Ly delivered.
4
The rind (also called the skin) of the lemon is difficult to
understand
It goes around itself in an oval quite unlike the orange which, as
anyone can tell, is a fruit easily to be eaten.
It can be crushed in canneries into all sorts of extracts which are
still not lemons. Oranges have no such fate. They’re pretty
much the same as they were. Culls become frozen orange
juice. The best oranges are eaten.
It’s the shape of the lemon, I guess that causes trouble. It’s
ovalness, it’s rind. This is where my love, somehow, stops.
5
A moment’s rest. I can’t get a moment’s rest without sleeping
with you. Yet each moment
Seems so hard to figure. Clocks
Tell time. In elaborate ceremonial they tick the seconds off
what was to come.
Wake us at six in the morning with messages someone had given
them the night before.
To pierce the darkness you need a clock that tells good time.
Something in the morning to hold on to
As one gets craftier in poetry one sees the obvious messages
(cocks for clocks) but one forgets the love that gave them
Time.
6
The moment’s rest. And the bodies entangled and yet not
entangled in sleeping. Could we get
Out of our skins and dance? The bedclothes
So awry that they seem like two skins.
Or all the sorts of skins that we wore, wear (the orgasm),
wanted to wear, or would be wearing. So utterly tangled.
A bad dream.
A moment’s rest. The skins
All of them
Near.
I saw the ghost of myself and the ghost of yourself dancing
without music.
With
Out
Skin.
A good dream. The
Moment’s rest.
health care is not in danger
not affected by recession
because the white people and the black people
all level up
to old age and no child shall ever have the time
to care for each of them
and so here you are
too confident about your future
cleaning the sheets
administering the medication
taking and throwing shits.
Stumbled out of bed this mornin'
Don't know where I been.
Don't know what the haps last night
But it must have been a sin.
‘Cause today I got the lowdown blues,
The Southside Chicago mind-numbin' blues
I know my baby left me
That much I will confess.
Said I was a no-good worthless bum
And my life was in a mess.
Gave me the sorrowful blues,
The Southside Chicago pate-scramblin' blues.
Got out the frying pan
Made me some eggs and ham.
What a miserable life you lead
When you're livin' on the lam.
It's enough to give an old ex-con the lowlife blues
The Southside Chicago brain-dead blues.
Got to get my act together
Got to get my baby back
‘Cause I'm no good without her
And that's a goddurn fact.
Got to shake these dreadful blues,
These Southside Chicago drivin'-me-crazy blues.
Called her on the phone today
Begged her come on home
Promised I would shape up good
And never more to roam.
These awful blues are killin' me
These Southside Chicago ball-breakin' blues
She said Don't call me up no more
You're just a no-good cheatin' liar
I wouldn't even piss on you
If you was caught afire
I hope you keep your freakin' blues
Those Southside Chicago pot-smokin' blues.
Please don't give up on me
Try to show some pity
‘Cause without you life is empty
In this lonely windy city
While I suffer with these desolation blues
These Southside Chicago mind-numbin',
Pate-scramblin' brain-dead, drivin'-me-crazy,
Ball-breakin', pot-smokin' BLUES!
Rows of blankly box-like buildings
Raise their sodden architecture
Into the poised lyric of the sky.
At their feet, pawn-shops and burlesque theatres
Yawn beneath their livid confetti.
In the pawn-shop windows, violins,
cut-glass bowls and satchels mildly blink
Upon the mottled turbulence outside,
And sit with that detached assurance
Gripping things inanimate.
Near them, slyly shaded cabarets
Stand in bland and ornate sleep,
And the glassy luridness
Of penny-arcade flays the eyes.
The black crowd clatters like an idiot's wrath.
II
Wander with me down this street
Where the spectral night is caught
Like moon-paint on a colourless lane . . .
On this corner stands a woman
sleekly, sulkily complacent
Like a tigress nibbling bits of sugar.
At her side, a brawny, white-faced man
Whose fingers waltz upon his checkered suit,
Searches for one face amidst the crowd.
(His smile is like a rambling sword.)
His elbows almost touch a snowy girl
Whose body blooms with cool withdrawal.
From her little nook of peaceful scorn
She casts unseeing eyes upon the crowd.
Near her stands a weary newsboy
With a sullenly elfin face.
The night has leaned too intimately
On the frightened scampering of his soul.
But to this old, staidly patient woman
With her softly wintry eyes,
Night bends down in gentle revelation
Undisturbed by joy or hatred.
At her side two factory girls
In slyly jaunty hats and swaggering coats,
Weave a twinkling summer with their words:
A summer where the night parades
Rakishly, and like a gold Beau Brummel.
With a gnome-like impudence
They thrust their little, pink tongues out
At men who sidle past.
To them, the frantic dinginess of day
Has melted to caressing restlessness
Tingling with the pride of beasts and hips.
At their side two dainty, languid girls
Playing with their suavely tangled dresses,
Touch the black crowd with unsearching eyes.
But the old man on the corner,
Bending over his cane like some tired warrior
Resting on a sword, peers at the crowd
With the smouldering disdain
Of a King whipped out of his domain.
For a moment he smiles uncertainly.
Then wears a look of frail sternness.
Musty. Rabelaisian odours stray
From this naïvely gilded family-entrance
And make the body of a vagrant
Quiver as though unseen roses grazed him.
His face is blackly stubbled emptiness
Swerving to the rotted prayers of eyes.
Yet, sometimes his thin arm leaps out
And hangs a moment in the air,
As though he raised a violin of hate
And lacked the strength to play it.
A woman lurches from the family-entrance.
With tense solicitude she hugs
Her can of beer against her stunted bosom
And mumbles to herself.
The trampled blasphemy upon her face
Holds up, in death, its watery, barren eyes.
Indifferently, she brushes past the vagrant:
Life has peeled away her sense of touch.
III
With groping majesty, the endless crowd
Pounds its searching chant of feet
Down this tawdrily resplendent street.
People stray into a burlesque theatre
Framed with scarlet, blankly rotund girls.
Here a burly cattle-raiser walks
With the grace of wind-swept prairie grass.
Behind him steps a slender clerk
Tendering his sprightly stridency
to the stolid, doll-like girl beside him.
At his side a heavy youth
Dully stands beneath his swaggering mask;
And a smiling man in black and white
Walks, like some Pierrot grown middle-aged.
Mutely twinkling fragments of a romance:
Tiny lights stand over this cabaret.
Men and women jovially emboldened
Stroll beneath the curtained entrance,
And their laughs, like softly brazen cow-bells,
Change the scene to a strange Pastoral.
Hectic shepherdesses drunk with night,
Women mingle their coquettish colours. . . .
Suddenly, a man leaps out
From the doorway's blazing pallor,
Smashing into the drab sidewalk.
His drunken lips and eyelids break apart
Like a clown in sudden suicide.
Then the mottled nakedness
Of the scene comes, like a blow.
Stoically crushed in hovering grey
Night lies coldly on this street.
Momentary sounds crash into night
Like ghostly curses stifled in their birth. . . .
And over all the blankly box-like buildings
Raise their sodden architecture
Into the poised lyric of the sky.
This red hush toppling over the sky,
Wanders one step toward the stars
And dies in a questioning shiver.
The steel-mill chimneys fling their gaunt seeking
A little distance into the red
That softly combs their smoky hair.
The steel-mill chimneys only live at night
When crimson light makes love to them
And star-light trickles through the red,
Like glimpses of some far-off fairy tale.
Throughout the day the steel-mill chimneys stand
Rigidly within the wind-whirled glare:
Only night can bring them supple straightness.
II
From the little, brown gate that does not see them
Because its eyes are blind with wooing soot,
An endless stream of men scatters out
Into the cool bewilderment of morning.
Upon their lips a limply child-like surrender
Curves out to the light, as though they felt
The presence of an unassuming strangeness.
The morning hides from their eyes:
They walk on, in great strides,
Like blind men swinging over a well-known scene.
Their faces twitch with echoes of iron fists:
Their faces hold a swarthy stupor
Loosened by little fingers of morning light
Until it droops into reluctant life.
And then their eyes, made flat by night,
Swell into a Madonna-like surprise
At children trooping back in huge disguise.
the oranges in lunch-room windows change
To sleek suns dipped in sleepy light,
And rounded tarts in china plates
Are like red heart-beats, resting but not dead.
A trolley-car speeds by
And seems a strident lyric of motion.
Wagons rumble down the street
Like drums enticing weariness to step. . . .
The hearts of these steel-striding men
Ascend and blend within their eyes,
And yet, these men are unaware of this.
They only feel a fluid relief
Voicing, in a clustered roar,
The cries of struggling thoughts unshaped by words.
But there are some who break forth from the rest.
This old Hungarian strides along
And binds naïvely-winged prayer-sandals
Upon the heavy feet of shuffling loves.
Gently, he plays with his beard
As though his fingers touched a woman's hair.
And this young Slav whose surly blasphemy
Curls his face into a simple hate,
Has taken iron into his laugh
And uses it to hew his stony mind.
While this Italian whose deep olive skin
Shines like sunlight groping through dense leaves,
Forgets his battered happiness
And bows with mock grace to his shouting day.
Beside him is a fellow-countryman
Walking aimless, dazed with joy of motion.
Upon his face a glistening vacancy
Lights the mildly querying thoughts
That seek each other but never meet.
Behind him steps a stalwart Pole
Whose rhythmic, stately insolence
Turns the sidewalk into a grey carpet,
Grey as the shades that race across his face
And show the savage squalor of his soul.
Night has broken her heart upon him,
Only scarring his bitter smile.
A street of little, jack-o'-lantern houses
Veering into leering saloons,
Where the night, a crazy child,
Dips herself in sallow rouge
And chases oaths and heavy mirth
And even human beings:
Where the smoky sadness of the steel-mills
Wanders hesitantly into death
And drops a ghostly blur upon this girl.
Her numbly waxen, cherub face
Emerges gently from the doorway's blackness
As though the dark had given birth to it.
And then the falling light reveals
That something of a village hangs about her:
Something slumbering and ample.
The doorway is too small to hold
Her shoulders that are like a hill's broad curves
Dwindled in the distance. . . .
She is one of many earth-curved girls
Who listened to the insistent tinkle
Of wind-winged music from a far-off land:
Listened and knew not
That their own hearts faintly played.
So she ran to this far phantom,
Only finding it within herself
When the city's sly fists rained upon it.
Then once more she fled
With a dead heart whose restless pallor
Crept to squalid wantonness, for refuge.
And now she stands within this doorway,
Uttering muffled innuendos
To the drained men of her race.
Yet, something of a village hangs about her:
Something slumbering and ample
Stealing from the earth curves of her shoulders.
III
The steel-mill workers straggle down this street,
Clanging shut the doorways of their souls,
And the sound rips their lips open.
The steel-mill workers do not know of this:
They only seek something that will sweeten
The dirt that has eaten into their flesh
And change it to raw music.
They straggle down this street,
Their faces slack and oiled with amorousness.
Like cats they play with their desires,
Biting them with little laughs
Until the sallow houses draw them in.
And then the night pursues their revelry:
Echoes from the shut doors of their souls.
IV
Three bent women and a child
Stoop before the steel-mill gate
As though the morning's ghastly murmur
Washed against them in a wave
Stiffening them into resisting curves.
One is old and floridly misshapen.
Years have melted out within her frame,
Flooding her with lukewarm loves.
The wrinkles on her flabby face
Are like a faded scrawl of pain
Scattered by the flesh on which it rests.
Her frayed shawl hanging unaware of her
Is a symbol of her heart.
The woman standing at her side
Is tall and like a slanting scarecrow
Coldly jerking in the morning's glare.
Only when she lifts a bony hand
Tapping life against her face,
Does the image disappear.
Dead dreams dangle in her heart,
Limply hanging from their rainbow sashes,
And whenever one sash trembles,
Then, she lifts a gnarled hand to her face
And tastes a moment of departing life.
Near her stands a slimly rigid woman
With an iron fear upon her bones.
A worn straight-jacket of lines
Cuts the dying youth upon her face.
The slender child beside her,
Buried within staidly murky clothes,
Glances frightenedly up at her mother:
Glances as one who dances to a gate
And fumbles for a latch that hides itself.
Then from the rusty-reveried steel-mill gate
An endless stream of men scatter out
Into the cool bewilderment of morning.
Upon their lips a limply child-like surrender
Curves out to the light, as though they felt
The presence of an unassuming strangeness.
Showering down an arc of meteors as it clacks across an off-kilter joint,
The 'L' grumbles above Lake Street,
Smearing early morning as the Kosher butchers trundle their loads up ramps into the hungering maw of road behemoths snoring in anticipation.
The sky moves from bruised to blue.
There's chocolate in the air at the corner of Halsted
Inviting me to cross the backward flow of home's river rushing toward the glacial scar the city embraces.
The spider web of streets converge at Grand Avenue
As diesel-spewing buses, empty for a few more hours, huff
And a bowler-hatted Buddha smiles and invites all comers in for patchouli and jasmine tea at a bistro down the block.
Taxis chuff quietly in queues as do their Babel of drivers at Finkel's Deli at North Branch.
No fares to collect until the third edition wheels out of the Tribune's presses just up the road
Even though the bulldog is already scattered and tattered in the parking lot.
Teeter tottering above the canal as a mast makes its way past at road level,
An exclamation point slowly passing while the bridge stands at attention,
The roadway rumbles as the steel slowly lowers to kiss the further shore.
Such is the greeting Sol gets each Chicago morning as I saunter through the core
And it climbs from floor to floor up the gaudy Hancock with its pronged crown.
Sinatra said its all razzmatazz, but I know it really rumbles at dawn.
Hey, you sittin' over there by yourself...
Are ya playin' wit yerself, or a handy mini pocket elf, offa yer homely home's bookshelf?
EyE Said, it's time yew hid and resume playin' wit yerself! !
Whut, yew kinnot here mey?
Well, just yew go down to frickin' Hell! ...
Don't mind me, I will not tell.
Hey Tinkle Bell, Yew fuckin' Fairy...
If looks were gay, Yew'd be fuckin' scarey!
Nobody ever said anythin when i was just a fuckin' law breakin' teen...
When i said to a wandering by woman, Hey, can i sample and feel yer twin boxes.
Or every bi-stander was silent when i ran between the movin' cars on the Chicago El....
Iffin dey did, i'd tell em ta just go on deep into Hell.
Ah yes! I do miss those long ago days of teen days.
The End.
Born into freedom,
at liberty to roam,
explore all things.
Young, no skill to elude hunters.
Pod terrorized, futile attempts to protect younglings.
Noises, ropes, cries of cetaceans,
two-legged creatures leaping into water,
binding two young females, children of others.
Placed in a sling, heavy, heavy
out of liquid element, entreaties
mouths opening, closing, gasping,
conveyed by a clanging, fetid vehicle
to a place of unknown water,
pumped in from a polluted lake,
an "oceanarium" far from oceanic waters.
Now, two-legged creatures feed, touch,
teach them tricks to amuse schoolchildren,
rewarding with dead fish.
They swim, dive, in a concrete pond,
flailing flukes helplessly,
singing sad songs no one hears.
the bridges of Chicago
are not the bridges of Paris
or the bridges of Amsterdam
except they are a definition
almost no one bothers to define
like life full of surprises
in what now looks to be the oldest
modern American city
o apparition of the movie version of
the future circa 1931
the bridges soon filled with moving lines
of people workers' armies
in the darkness of first December visit
along the water
bend of the Chicago River
the cliffs of architecture like palisades
at night the stars in windows
stars in the poem you wrote a sky
through which the el train pulls its lights
in New York streets of childhood
is like a necklace (necktie) in the language of
old poems old memories
old Fritz Lang visions of the night before
the revolution the poor souls
of working people we all love
fathers or uncles
lost to us in dreams & gauze
of intervening 1960s
there are whole tribes of Indians
somewhere inhabiting
a tunnel paradise
they will wait it out still
with a perfect assurance of things to come
everyone so well read in old novels
maybe the economics of disaster Ted
depressions of the spirit
so unlike the bright promise of
the early years
gloss of the young life easing death
atop a hill in Lawrence Kansas
the afternoon sky became aluminum
(illumination)
played on a tambourine to calm
the serpent fear
the material corpse that leaves us vulnerable
everyone will come to it I think
I do not think you dig it
getting so out of hand so far away
but we remain & I will
make another visit soon
hope we can take a walk
together it is night & we are
not so bad off have turned forty
like poets happy with our sadness
we are still humans in a city overhung
with ancient bridges
you pop your pill I laugh
look back upon the future of
America & remember
when we both wrote our famous poems called
Modern Times
The great Chicago Fire, friends,
Will never be forgot;
In the history of Chicago
It will remain a darken spot.
It was a dreadful horrid sight
To see that City in flames;
But no human aid could save it,
For all skill was tried in vain.
In the year of 1871,
In October on the 8th,
The people in that City, then
Was full of life, and great.
Less than four days it lay in ruins,
That garden City, so great
Lay smouldering in ashes,
In a sad and pitiful state.
It was a sad, sad scene indeed,
To see the fire arise,
And hear the crackling of the flames
As it almost reached the skies,
And sadder still, to hear the moans,
Of people in the flames
Cry for help, and none could get,
Ah, die where they remained.
To see the people run for life;
Up and down the blazing streets,
To find then, their escape cut off
By the fiery flaming sheets,
And others hunting for some friend
That perhaps they never found,
Such weeping, wailing, never was known,
For a thousands miles around.
Some people were very wealthy
On the morning of the 10th.
But at the close of the evening,
Was poor, but felt content,
Glad to escape from harm with life
With friends they loved so well,
Some will try to gain more wisdom,
By the sad sight they beheld.
Five thousand people were homeless,
Sad wanderers in the streets,
With no shelter to cover them,
And no food had they to eat.
They wandered down by the lake side,
Lay down on the cold damp ground,
So tired and weary and homeless,
So the rich, the poor, was found.
Mothers with dear little infants,
Some clinging to the breast.
People of every description
All laid down there to rest,
With the sky as their covering,
Ah, pillows they had none.
Sad, oh sad, it must have been,
For those poor homeless ones.
Neighboring Cities sent comfort,
To the poor lone helpless ones,
And God will not forget them
In all the years to come.
Now the City of Chicago
Is built up anew once more,
And may it never be visited
With such a great fire no more.
she wears
two platinum bracelets
on her
wrists
dressed in golden
yellow
her reading glasses
on
she poses as he takes her
picture
against the yellow leaves
falling
the wind passes
another year is marked
in the autumn of
their years
''The South Side of Chicago'' by David Hart
The South Side of Chicago
Whence those childhood years were spent
Skip-walking upon grimacing cracked sidewalks
Hastening through filth floored garbage canned
flanked alleyways to-
The forlorn house-windows weeping chrystalline shards-
cascading glass tears
'Property Condemned' blared in scarlet on the door.
'Someone lives there' it was said,
'the man who gathers things from the garbage cans'
The pebble strewn church yard, where, in prickly winter,
scarved boys coerce the bell to toll with swift flung
snowballs catapaulted to a shivering bell tower.
The South Side of Chicago,
The year of the big church fire
That day it did burn and claw
At the hot black night sky.
People gathered, assembled in solemnity
Aghast, huddled and shoving to see
That hallowed place whose torrents
Of Sunday's serenities and dressups
Now would no longer be.
The South Side of Chicago
There, the swill darkened tavern
That nightly gulped down shadow faced spectres
A lad cries out, 'the bar, someone stabbed in the
head, come and see'.
'Not I', I said, 'not a sight I'd care to see',
as an acidic sadness enveloped me.
The boys came together wearing their
jackets and coats-symbols affixed, emblems
proudly donned-so they knew who they were.
'Wanna join? '  'No thanks', I said, 'Glad to be
just solitary me'.
I watched them, fighting their rivals
With chains, steel pipes and knives
Fearing their bloody deeds.
Content to be alone
Alone and free
The South Side of Chicago
In cramped classrooms scented in
soap and sawdust
Mostly attentive I would be
Amidst tatterly clothed children
-waiting for recess, lunch or
time to go home.
At recess, the garbage men came
And roused a battalion of rats
That scattered pell-mell
Amidst little girl shrieks
and screams
Little boys chortling
Chased those rats frightened
away
Far away
On the South Side of Chicago
2001DHartUSA
They can be Ph.D. guides or supervisors
But I cannot be
As it is not in my lot,
They can be Ph.D. guides or supervisors
But I cannot
As because they in universities
And I in a small town but govt.-salaried college.
They without the research experience can be
But I cannot be a Ph.D. guide
And even if, I shall have to be in a look out
For probable research candidates
And they too like to approach those
Who have a control over the university staff
Otherwise the technicalities will prove burdensome
Than their Ph.D. guidance.
Even after writing a few, many have moved to foreign
As for guest faculties,
Fellowship programmes and teaching  assignments
But they are not the best,
As something depends on one's good luck too,
Something as destiny too draws it close,
You may call it fate too.
What do you want from me, what to give, you say it,
I worked on Nissim Ezekiel, Jayanta Mahahpatra and Adil Jussawalla,
I worked on Khushwant singh's columns,
I worked on the novels and short stories of D.H.Lawrence,
On his sketches, letters, prose-pieces and reviews,
I worked on contemporary Indian English poetry
And the history and tradition of it,
I worked on the terracotta temples of Chandrakona,
Dilapidating and falling, the limsestone powder and small brick built
And what do you want me to do?
i may neglect
you for a while
my friend
for i am speaking to
a neighbor
just a stone throw away
from where
i am standing
it is different
when i speak using
my native tongue
i feel my roots down
under my feet
on the other hand
how it feels is like
seeing my old mother
again
back in the house of
our childhood
outside the guava
trees are bearing so
much fruits
heavy on its branches
tomorrow perhaps all
will be ripe
but the sad thing is
this: there is no child
anymore here
who is for the picking
In your hands you have the sun
In my heart I have the moon & stars
We fold this wide distance like
A paper, a letter where we have once written
Words that rekindle some old fires
Long, long time ago
I sleep in the dark and there you are
Lost and finding your way out
From so much light
hello mawe, if you are stil there
alive and listening
if you still have the shadow of
autumn and spring
if you still stand there beside the glass
walls of malls
staring at the thick snow beyond you
mawe, my friend, please tell me
'what does the snow of chicago tell you? '
please tell me what is it
that still bothers
the calm waters of your heart?
merry christmas.
happy new year.
why are you more silent than the snow?
Tough streets of Chicago, you made me who I am.
Tough streets of Chicago, for me you had a plan.
You forced me to observe, what kids my age did not.
You taught me to look and see, always looking for a plot.
You taught me to react, and kept me on my toes.
You taught me to examine, the actions of my foes.
You forced me to react, in situations dire.
You made sure I would function, when I came under fire.
You made sure I was tough, made sure I'd understand,
the skills that I would need, when I joined uncle Sam.
Tough streets of Chicago, I almost went insane.
Tough streets of Chicago, you caused me so much pain.
You made me grow up fast, always dodging death.
You made me run from danger, could hardly catch my breath.
You took most of my friends, why, I'll never understand.
You made it possible to count, all my friends on one hand.
You took them in their teens, you took them very young.
You took them way before, to live they had begun.
Tough streets of Chicago, my tour is almost up.
Tough streets of Chicago, with your gangster posting up.
Tough streets of Chicago, can't get you off my mind.
Tough streets of Chicago, I miss those streets of mine.
Tough streets of Chicago...............................
Chicago
this other
Paris
With first-rate museums, a world-famous aquarium, and miles of bike paths and trails along Lake Michigan, any time is the right time to visit the Windy City, even winter. See Chicago's forest of skyscrapers from the observation deck of the 110-story-high Sears Tower, the tallest building in North America. On the Loop's streets, find sculptures by Picasso, Miró, Chagall, and other masters, as well as cafes serving some of the country's best deep-dish pizza. At Millennium Park, a 24.5-acre urban oasis, take a spin on the skating rink and see 'Cloud Gate, ' an impressive jelly bean sculpture reflecting the city’s famed skyline.
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
our cameras freeze
a part of the millennium
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
coming out of my mouth
the millennium inside me
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
the millennium inside me cheers
on the millennium outisde
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
we freeze the millennium
with a click of our cameras
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
we stop the millennium
for a friendship picture
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
grinning at the fists
at our own faces
he throws a millenium joke
as she takes his picture
'that's the smartest guy on earth'
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
we take fist at own face pictures
in  the steel mirror
Millennium Park Cloud Gate
scowling our faces
for the picture of the millennium
Cloud Gate Steel Mirror
raising my hand up ala
statues of liberty
Chicago
With world-class museums, unparalleled food, and first-rate theater, Chicago's got a legit claim to fame. Check out one of the city's newer additions, Millennium Park, with its quirky public art and fun, warm weather activities. Start off the weekend with yoga in the park and cool off in the fountains, or catch an evening music or dance performance after eating some authentic Chicago deep dish pizza on nearby Michigan Avenue.
Drive! !
Arrive,
Dive into the truth;
Trump-Tower in Chicago!
Live,
Alive! ! !
Facing the facts of life.
January 14, 1880
CHICAGO sounds rough to the maker of verse;
One comfort we have--Cincinnati sounds worse;
If we only were licensed to say Chicago!
But Worcester and Webster won't let us, you know.
No matter, we songsters must sing as we can;
We can make some nice couplets with Lake Michigan,
And what more resembles a nightingale's voice,
Than the oily trisyllable, sweet Illinois?
Your waters are fresh, while our harbor is salt,
But we know you can't help it--it is n't your fault;
Our city is old and your city is new,
But the railroad men tell us we're greener than you.
You have seen our gilt dome, and no doubt you've been told
That the orbs of the universe round it are rolled;
But I'll own it to you, and I ought to know best,
That this is n't quite true of all stars of the West.
You'll go to Mount Auburn,--we'll show you the track,--
And can stay there,--unless you prefer to come back;
And Bunker's tall shaft you can climb if you will,
But you'll puff like a paragraph praising a pill.
You must see--but you have seen--our old Faneuil Hall,
Our churches, our school-rooms, our sample-rooms, all;
And, perhaps, though the idiots must have their jokes,
You have found our good people much like other folks.
There are cities by rivers, by lakes, and by seas,
Each as full of itself as a cheese-mite of cheese;
And a city will brag as a game-cock will crow
Don't your cockerels at home--just a little, you know?
But we'll crow for you now--here's a health to the boys,
Men, maidens, and matrons of fair Illinois,
And the rainbow of friendship that arches its span
From the green of the sea to the blue Michigan!
Waiting patiently a quarter to one,
we heard the whistle blow.
I looked at the others, took deep breaths,
it’s almost time to go.
The train approached, there it was
bigger than life in front of me.
my first time to jump the coal train
and take that coal for free.
We ran with strength and agility,
sprung like jumping jacks.
Took our places a top the car,
zooming along the railroad tracks.
Quickly with all the strength we had,
we threw coal to the ground.
The next task was to bag it up
and sell it in our town.
The coal train came everyday
at a quarter to one,
my first day would be my last,
I put my coal bag down.
Another true story of my childhood in Sydney Nova
Scotia.  Jumping the old coal train to make a few cents,
very little gain indeed.  Looking back once again, I see
the danger of the act, for what was profited certainly
wasn’t worth all that.  A word to the young, “stay out
of harms way, remain honest and true,  the coal train
was not for me and certainly not for you.
Written:  March 27/2007
[NOTE: THIS POEM IS NOT TO BE USED ANYWHERE WITHOUT MY CONCENT. PLEASE USE THE LINKS IN MY BIOGRAPHY OR MESSAGES ON THIS SITE TO CONTACT ME. THANKS.]
I can't remember,
Skipping rocks on the pond,
My childhoods forgotten,
My Childhoods lost,
Going to the lake,
Sitting on the beach,
Playing with friends,
or dancing in the streets,
I can't remember,
The crash in the fog,
My childhood was forgotten,
My childhood was lost,
The doctor doing surgery,
Me getting pills,
I can't remember any of it,
None of it's clear,
I still can't remember,
How it is gone,
My childhood forgotten,
My childhood's lost!
Well I'm gonna end it right now,
I gonna kill myself off,
A childhood Forgotten,
A childhood lost
Hear someone giggle,
Peer out, there is no one... puzzled;
am here smiled drizzle.
Some call it checkers,
I call it draughts.
Don't play with me
If you think it's just a game
And you don't mind losing.
I play a mean game. I play to win.
Old Peter Salaveros taught me
When I was a boy.
We played on a scrubbed table
In the seamen's mess,
Just him and me.
We played seriously.
Neither of us smiled.
I am glad I met you on the edge
Of your barbarous childhood
In what purity of pleasure
You danced alone like a peasant
For the stamping joy's own sake!
How, set in their sandy sockets,
Your clear, truthful, transparent eyes
Shone out of the black frozen landscape
Of those gray-clothed schoolboys!
How your shy hand offered
The total generosity
Of original unforewarned fearful trust,
In a world grown old in iron hatred!
I am glad to set down
The first and ultimate you,
Your inescapable soul. Although
It fade like a fading smile
Or light falling from faces
Which some grimmer preoccupation replaces.
This happens everywhere at every time:
Joy lacks the cause for joy,
Love the answering love,
And truth the objectless persistent loneliness,
As they grow older,
To become later what they were
In childhood earlier,
In a world of cheating compromise.
Childhood, its own flower,
Flushes from the grasses with no reason
Except the sky of that season.
But the grown desires need objects
And taste of these corrupts the tongue
And the natural need is scattered
In satisfactions which satisfy
A debased need.
Yet all prayers are on die side of
Giving strength to naturalness,
So I pray for nothing new,
I pray only, after such knowledge,
That you may have the strength to be you.
And I shall remember
You who, being younger,
Will probably forget.
A COUPLET OF PABLO NERUDA HAD INSPIRED ME TO COMPOSE THIS POEM. COMPOSED ON 8TH OCTOBER 1980.
**************************************** *************************************
Oh beauty! Thy face is
Slumber and pale so deep
In the smalt of night,
In this silent hour.
Oh dreams! Thy rainbow feathers
I saw in my bed
Void of that golden hue
That once my years filled.
Oh song! So echoing thy strings-
Was so enchanting once.
Now with tears engrave on thy grave
An ode in this silhouette.
Oh sweet days! Why now weep
Fondling in silence with candid feelings?
That quiet little brook whispers unto me
Of our childhood avenues so sacred.
Oh my soul! Thou from the distant past
Bring me a faint whiff of my childhood.
You were my first delight, you gifted me
Umpteen poems to light my solemn hours.
My mother stands at the screen door, laughing.
“Out out damn Spot,” she commands our silly dog.
I wonder what this means. I rise into adult air
like a hollyhock, I’m so proud to be loved
like this. The air is tight to my nervous body.
I use new clothes and shoes the way the corn-studded
soil around here uses nitrogen, giddily.
Ohio, Ohio, Ohio. Often I sing
to myself all day like a fieldful of August
insects, just things I whisper, really,
a trance in sneakers. I’m learning
to read from my mother and soon I’ll go to school,
I hate it when anyone dies or leaves and the air
goes slack around my body and I have to hug myself,
a cloud, an imaginary friend, the stream in the road-
side park. I love to be called for dinner.
Spot goes out and I go in and the lights
in the kitchen go on and the dark,
which also has a body like a cloud’s,
leans lightly against the house. Tomorrow
I’ll find the sweat stains it left, little grey smudges.
Here’s a sky no higher than a street lamp,
and a stack of morning papers cinched by wire.
It’s 4:00 A.M. A stout dog, vaguely beagle,
minces over the dry, fresh-fallen snow;
and here’s our sleep-sodden paperboy
with his pliers, his bike, his matronly dog,
his unclouding face set for paper route
like an alarm clock. Here’s a memory
in the making, for this could be the morning
he doesn’t come home and his parents
two hours later drive his route until
they find him asleep, propped against a street lamp,
his papers all delivered and his dirty paper-
satchel slack, like an emptied lung,
and he blur-faced and iconic in the morning
air rinsing itself a paler and paler blue
through which a last few dandruff-flecks
of snow meander casually down.
The dog squeaks in out of the dark,
snuffling me too me too. And here he goes
home to memory, and to hot chocolate
on which no crinkled skin forms like infant ice,
and to the long and ordinary day,
school, two triumphs and one severe
humiliation on the playground, the past
already growing its scabs, the busride home,
dinner, and evening leading to sleep
like the slide that will spill him out, come June,
into the eye-reddening chlorine waters
of the municipal pool. Here he goes to bed.
Kiss. Kiss. Teeth. Prayers. Dark. Dark.
Here the dog lies down by his bed,
and sighs and farts. Will he always be
this skinny, chicken-bones?
He’ll remember like a prayer
how his mother made breakfast for him
every morning before he trudged out
to snip the papers free. Just as
his mother will remember she felt
guilty never to wake up with him
to give him breakfast. It was Cream
of Wheat they always or never had together.
It turns out you are the story of your childhood
and you’re under constant revision,
like a lonely folktale whose invisible folks
are all the selves you’ve been, lifelong,
shadows in fog, grey glimmers at dusk.
And each of these selves had a childhood
it traded for love and grudged to give away,
now lost irretrievably, in storage
like a set of dishes from which no food,
no Cream of Wheat, no rabbit in mustard
sauce, nor even a single raspberry,
can be eaten until the afterlife,
which is only childhood in its last
disguise, all radiance or all humiliation,
and so it is forfeit a final time.
In fact it was awful, you think, or why
should the piecework of grief be endless?
Only because death is, and likewise loss,
which is not awful, but only breathtaking.
There’s no truth about your childhood,
though there’s a story, yours to tend,
like a fire or garden. Make it a good one,
since you’ll have to live it out, and all
its revisions, so long as you all shall live,
for they shall be gathered to your deathbed,
and they’ll have known to what you and they
would come, and this one time they’ll weep for you.
The map in the shopping center has an X
signed “you are here.” A dream is like that.
In a dream you are never eighty, though
you may risk death by other means:
you’re on a ledge and memory calls you
to jump, but a deft cop talks you in
to a small, bright room, and snickers.
And in a dream, you’re everyone somewhat,
but not wholly. I think I know how that
works: for twenty-one years I had a father
and then I became a father, replacing him
but not really. Soon my sons will be fathers.
Surely, that’s what middle-aged means,
being father and son to sons and father.
That a male has only one mother is another
story, told wherever men weep wholly.
Though nobody’s replaced. In one dream
I’m leading a rope of children to safety,
through a snowy farm. The farmer comes out
and I have to throw snowballs well to him
so we may pass. Even dreaming, I know
he’s my father, at ease in his catcher’s
squat, and that the dream has revived
to us both an old unspoken fantasy:
we’re a battery. I’m young, I’m brash,
I don’t know how to pitch but I can
throw a lamb chop past a wolf. And he
can handle pitchers and control a game.
I look to him for a sign. I’d nod
for anything. The damn thing is hard to grip
without seams, and I don’t rely only
on my live, young arm, but throw by all
the body I can get behind it, and it fluffs
toward him no faster than the snow
in the dream drifts down. Nothing
takes forever, but I know what the phrase
means. The children grow more cold
and hungry and cruel to each other
the longer the ball’s in the air, and it begins
to melt. By the time it gets to him we’ll be
our waking ages, and each of us is himself
alone, and we all join hands and go.
Toward dawn, rain explodes on the tin roof
like popcorn. The pale light is streaked by grey
and that green you see just under the surface
of water, a shimmer more than a color.
Time to dive back into sleep, as if into
happiness, that neglected discipline ....
In those sixth-grade book reports
you had to say if the book was optimistic
or not, and everyone looked at you
the same way: how would he turn out?
He rolls in his sleep like an otter.
Uncle Ed has a neck so fat it’s funny,
and on the way to work he pries the cap
off a Pepsi. Damn rain didn’t cool one weary
thing for long; it’s gonna be a cooker.
The boy sleeps with a thin chain of sweat
on his upper lip, as if waking itself,
becoming explicit, were hard work.
Who knows if he’s happy or not?
A child is all the tools a child has,
growing up, who makes what he can.
On that November noon, as we drove in
To my home town, at the foot of Shivalik hills.
I realised, why it is so close to my heart,
This is where my parents gave me a start.
So many fond memories come rushing in.
It seems yesterday I was a kid creating din.
My nephew who had got posted to my town,
Urged me, Aunt why don’t you come down.
Saying, he had waited to see the city,
And through my eyes, built memories
I recall he was tall, lanky and all of ten,
When he came for my wedding celebrations.
Now he is a renowned heart surgeon,
Kind, compassionate and a genial person.
I rang him when a family wedding took me there,
Well son, let me show you around now that I am here.
So we drove into the city beautiful.
For mid November it was pretty cool.
My heart was swelling with pride,
As I pointed to him different sights.
Rose garden here is best you will find
In entire Asia, don’t look surprised.
Big, small, frail, exotic, pale multi hued,
Flowers were covered with droplets of dew.
Later we drove to my sprawling alma mater
And showed him where I got my love for literature
Recounting tales of our famous escapades
How my bespectacled professor regaled
Us while teaching us in his inimitable style Yeats.
Oh, how overwhelmed I felt once inside the gates.
Later I told him lets just park the Chevrolet,
And pay some money to the attendant.
We walked at a leisurely pace, and I pointed out,
Library, auditorium and canteen- our favourite haunt
Steaming hot cups of tea and samosas
Can you believe all for just thirty paise?
The avenue was lined with eucalyptus trees,
Birds were chirping flitting about free.
As we caught with each others lives,
We realised we had come far and walked miles.
We had reached a village with dense mango groves
We lingered and amused watched cocks and crows
As we drove back home, I said much hasn’t changed,
Although I have been away from here for decades…
This is an affair that began in childhood
i would like to settle here if i could...
City Beautiful- Chandigarh
Mamta
26.11.08
Tangled in thought am I,
Stumble in speech do I?
Do I blunder and blush for the reason why?
Wander aloof do I,
Lean over gates and sigh,
Making friends with the bee and the butterfly?
If thus and thus I do,
Dazed by the thought of you,
Walking my sorrowful way in the early dew,
My heart cut through and through
In this despair of you,
Starved for a word or a look will my hope renew:
give then a thought for me
Walking so miserably,
Wanting relief in the friendship of flower or tree;
Do but remember, we
Once could in love agree,
Swallow your pride, let us be as we used to be.
light. strikes
a silver hand
outstreached
waving goodbye
to the sounds of life
to butterflies
and ice cream
frozen
in the moment
light.
creeps down
the gleeming figure
tracing childhood's
outline
every band-aid covered
elbow
kissing memories
goodbye
I missed out on having a childhood
went from a little girl to womanhood.
I think the way my parents raised their children
was only the best of what they're parents could.
I always felt like their Cinderella
always cleaning, ironing and straightening up it seemed.
Taking care of my little sisters and brother
never spending time to be just that child which I need.
I always felt that I had missed out on something
and searched for that missing link throughout my life.
Been married too many times to speak of
been a mother to two sons and a loving wife.
I always promised myself not to repeat
what and how I had been raised.
But to give my sons all of my love
with Respect and Love and Praise.
To allow them to be a child
the best child that they could be.
And always keep myself in check
remembering that missing part of that child in me.
If I don't
go and
go
when I need to
go
I still
go
anyway
without
going there
The sun would volley
Live coals on bodies
In threadbare clothes
The sun would blink
Through the meager waters
That’s left of a river
Sand dunes with scanty vegetation
Scattered all over
The small raft wouldn’t move
On thin layer of water
Where did the fish disappear?
Bedrooms shifted to isolated
Shades under trees
Leaves perspiring and choking
Under the smarting sun
The fires set ablaze to settle scores
Around the town increased
The mercury in the thermometer
Where’s water to put off the fires
On all the four sides of the town
With three intersecting canals
And the mighty Krishna
Coming to a halt?
We longingly would look
Towards the west
For the sun to set
When did the sun really ‘set? ’
The sun would always be
In the middles of the sky
Day in and day out
In the nights he would be
Substituted by hot gales
Which mom would counter
By placing raw onions on
Our skimpy beds and replenishing
Our thin tongues with water
Waking us up from the sun-laden sleep
Afternoons were time for fighting out
The live-coal sun with games under the
Scattered shades emitting the rawness of
Flower-laden mango trees
And biting into tender mangoes
For a moment the sun would take a retreat
Looking at the faces reflecting the sourness
Somehow the birds never really left
The nests they wove for the season to follow
They would wake us early in the morning
And in the mornings all we saw of them would be
By way of droppings on our heads
Sometimes they would swoop down
To take a sip from the flat earthen plates
Dad filled with water exclusively for them
They would even balance on the edge
Of a small vessel he would place
Filling it up with grains…
It was sapping heat
But never did it sap us
It was mercury at its high
But never disturbed us
We countered all
As if it’s just another
Season to live through
We would be habituated
To every facet by draping
Ourselves in damp clothing
And drawing long sips of water
From the fresh earthen pots
Sun is so much part of our day
Sun is our day!
02dec2010
12.45hrs
There is a place from our childhood;
we like to visit now and then,
to recapture our youth,
through the years that has slipped away.
A place that has a magic touch,
even through the years it has changed.
A place where sunshine,
still dances on the water
of rippling waves.
Where the wildlife still gather,
free from harm.
A place of solitude,
where you can find
a little peace of mind.
A place within a city that has not
been strangled by any human hand.
Somewhere you can while time away,
with dreams of another day.
And as we grew older
Childhood became so distant
We were too busy being
great, being brilliant
That we stopped seeing
But were we ever young and crazy
What were our teenage years
But the yearn to be older
To be established, free from fears
We just kept getting colder
Youth is not a matter of age
But a state of mind
Fully live each day
or soon you'll find
You can't honestly say
'It's not yet too late'
Just lately I went walking
On the roads of yesteryear;
I went walking through my childhood,
When the air was crisp and pure.
I could see the old house standing
And the smokehouse, and the well;
I could still see my dear mother.
As she rang the dinner bell.
I could see my mother's garden
And beyond, the briar patch.
Oh! Those juicy, ripe blackberries
Were well worth each itch and scratch.
In the meadows were the pastures,
Where the cows were gently lowing,
Where the butterflies were wafting
And the thick wildflowers growing.
In the grain field stood my father,
He, with others threshing wheat;
And I saw a small lad toting
Water, for them, in the heat.
Oft, we'd walk the pike to Grandpa's;
It was just a mile or two,
Past the stream where we went fishing;
It was there the willows grew.
Further on the little church stood,
Where the parson would expound;
Then we'd go into the church yard,
To have dinner on the ground.
These scenes, just some of many,
In my memories still endure,
As I go walking through my childhood
On the roads of yesteryear.
OH there is blessing in this gentle breeze,
A visitant that while it fans my cheek
Doth seem half-conscious of the joy it brings
From the green fields, and from yon azure sky.
Whate'er its mission, the soft breeze can come
To none more grateful than to me; escaped
From the vast city, where I long had pined
A discontented sojourner: now free,
Free as a bird to settle where I will.
What dwelling shall receive me? in what vale
Shall be my harbour? underneath what grove
Shall I take up my home? and what clear stream
Shall with its murmur lull me into rest?
The earth is all before me. With a heart
Joyous, nor scared at its own liberty,
I look about; and should the chosen guide
Be nothing better than a wandering cloud,
I cannot miss my way. I breathe again!
Trances of thought and mountings of the mind
Come fast upon me: it is shaken off,
That burthen of my own unnatural self,
The heavy weight of many a weary day
Not mine, and such as were not made for me.
Long months of peace (if such bold word accord
With any promises of human life),
Long months of ease and undisturbed delight
Are mine in prospect; whither shall I turn,
By road or pathway, or through trackless field,
Up hill or down, or shall some floating thing
Upon the river point me out my course?
Dear Liberty! Yet what would it avail
But for a gift that consecrates the joy?
For I, methought, while the sweet breath of heaven
Was blowing on my body, felt within
A correspondent breeze, that gently moved
With quickening virtue, but is now become
A tempest, a redundant energy,
Vexing its own creation. Thanks to both,
And their congenial powers, that, while they join
In breaking up a long-continued frost,
Bring with them vernal promises, the hope
Of active days urged on by flying hours,--
Days of sweet leisure, taxed with patient thought
Abstruse, nor wanting punctual service high,
Matins and vespers of harmonious verse!
Thus far, O Friend! did I, not used to make
A present joy the matter of a song,
Pour forth that day my soul in measured strains
That would not be forgotten, and are here
Recorded: to the open fields I told
A prophecy: poetic numbers came
Spontaneously to clothe in priestly robe
A renovated spirit singled out,
Such hope was mine, for holy services.
My own voice cheered me, and, far more, the mind's
Internal echo of the imperfect sound;
To both I listened, drawing from them both
A cheerful confidence in things to come.
Content and not unwilling now to give
A respite to this passion, I paced on
With brisk and eager steps; and came, at length,
To a green shady place, where down I sate
Beneath a tree, slackening my thoughts by choice
And settling into gentler happiness.
'Twas autumn, and a clear and placid day,
With warmth, as much as needed, from a sun
Two hours declined towards the west; a day
With silver clouds, and sunshine on the grass,
And in the sheltered and the sheltering grove
A perfect stillness. Many were the thoughts
Encouraged and dismissed, till choice was made
Of a known Vale, whither my feet should turn,
Nor rest till they had reached the very door
Of the one cottage which methought I saw.
No picture of mere memory ever looked
So fair; and while upon the fancied scene
I gazed with growing love, a higher power
Than Fancy gave assurance of some work
Of glory there forthwith to be begun,
Perhaps too there performed. Thus long I mused,
Nor e'er lost sight of what I mused upon,
Save when, amid the stately grove of oaks,
Now here, now there, an acorn, from its cup
Dislodged, through sere leaves rustled, or at once
To the bare earth dropped with a startling sound.
From that soft couch I rose not, till the sun
Had almost touched the horizon; casting then
A backward glance upon the curling cloud
Of city smoke, by distance ruralised;
Keen as a Truant or a Fugitive,
But as a Pilgrim resolute, I took,
Even with the chance equipment of that hour,
The road that pointed toward the chosen Vale.
It was a splendid evening, and my soul
Once more made trial of her strength, nor lacked
Aeolian visitations; but the harp
Was soon defrauded, and the banded host
Of harmony dispersed in straggling sounds,
And lastly utter silence! 'Be it so;
Why think of anything but present good?'
So, like a home-bound labourer, I pursued
My way beneath the mellowing sun, that shed
Mild influence; nor left in me one wish
Again to bend the Sabbath of that time
To a servile yoke. What need of many words?
A pleasant loitering journey, through three days
Continued, brought me to my hermitage.
I spare to tell of what ensued, the life
In common things--the endless store of things,
Rare, or at least so seeming, every day
Found all about me in one neighbourhood--
The self-congratulation, and, from morn
To night, unbroken cheerfulness serene.
But speedily an earnest longing rose
To brace myself to some determined aim,
Reading or thinking; either to lay up
New stores, or rescue from decay the old
By timely interference: and therewith
Came hopes still higher, that with outward life
I might endue some airy phantasies
That had been floating loose about for years,
And to such beings temperately deal forth
The many feelings that oppressed my heart.
That hope hath been discouraged; welcome light
Dawns from the east, but dawns to disappear
And mock me with a sky that ripens not
Into a steady morning: if my mind,
Remembering the bold promise of the past,
Would gladly grapple with some noble theme,
Vain is her wish; where'er she turns she finds
Impediments from day to day renewed.
And now it would content me to yield up
Those lofty hopes awhile, for present gifts
Of humbler industry. But, oh, dear Friend!
The Poet, gentle creature as he is,
Hath, like the Lover, his unruly times;
His fits when he is neither sick nor well,
Though no distress be near him but his own
Unmanageable thoughts: his mind, best pleased
While she as duteous as the mother dove
Sits brooding, lives not always to that end,
But like the innocent bird, hath goadings on
That drive her as in trouble through the groves;
With me is now such passion, to be blamed
No otherwise than as it lasts too long.
When, as becomes a man who would prepare
For such an arduous work, I through myself
Make rigorous inquisition, the report
Is often cheering; for I neither seem
To lack that first great gift, the vital soul,
Nor general Truths, which are themselves a sort
Of Elements and Agents, Under-powers,
Subordinate helpers of the living mind:
Nor am I naked of external things,
Forms, images, nor numerous other aids
Of less regard, though won perhaps with toil
And needful to build up a Poet's praise.
Time, place, and manners do I seek, and these
Are found in plenteous store, but nowhere such
As may be singled out with steady choice;
No little band of yet remembered names
Whom I, in perfect confidence, might hope
To summon back from lonesome banishment,
And make them dwellers in the hearts of men
Now living, or to live in future years.
Sometimes the ambitious Power of choice, mistaking
Proud spring-tide swellings for a regular sea,
Will settle on some British theme, some old
Romantic tale by Milton left unsung;
More often turning to some gentle place
Within the groves of Chivalry, I pipe
To shepherd swains, or seated harp in hand,
Amid reposing knights by a river side
Or fountain, listen to the grave reports
Of dire enchantments faced and overcome
By the strong mind, and tales of warlike feats,
Where spear encountered spear, and sword with sword
Fought, as if conscious of the blazonry
That the shield bore, so glorious was the strife;
Whence inspiration for a song that winds
Through ever-changing scenes of votive quest
Wrongs to redress, harmonious tribute paid
To patient courage and unblemished truth,
To firm devotion, zeal unquenchable,
And Christian meekness hallowing faithful loves.
Sometimes, more sternly moved, I would relate
How vanquished Mithridates northward passed,
And, hidden in the cloud of years, became
Odin, the Father of a race by whom
Perished the Roman Empire: how the friends
And followers of Sertorius, out of Spain
Flying, found shelter in the Fortunate Isles,
And left their usages, their arts and laws,
To disappear by a slow gradual death,
To dwindle and to perish one by one,
Starved in those narrow bounds: but not the soul
Of Liberty, which fifteen hundred years
Survived, and, when the European came
With skill and power that might not be withstood,
Did, like a pestilence, maintain its hold
And wasted down by glorious death that race
Of natural heroes: or I would record
How, in tyrannic times, some high-souled man,
Unnamed among the chronicles of kings,
Suffered in silence for Truth's sake: or tell,
How that one Frenchman, through continued force
Of meditation on the inhuman deeds
Of those who conquered first the Indian Isles,
Went single in his ministry across
The Ocean; not to comfort the oppressed,
But, like a thirsty wind, to roam about
Withering the Oppressor: how Gustavus sought
Help at his need in Dalecarlia's mines:
How Wallace fought for Scotland; left the name
Of Wallace to be found, like a wild flower,
All over his dear Country; left the deeds
Of Wallace, like a family of Ghosts,
To people the steep rocks and river banks,
Her natural sanctuaries, with a local soul
Of independence and stern liberty.
Sometimes it suits me better to invent
A tale from my own heart, more near akin
To my own passions and habitual thoughts;
Some variegated story, in the main
Lofty, but the unsubstantial structure melts
Before the very sun that brightens it,
Mist into air dissolving! Then a wish,
My last and favourite aspiration, mounts
With yearning toward some philosophic song
Of Truth that cherishes our daily life;
With meditations passionate from deep
Recesses in man's heart, immortal verse
Thoughtfully fitted to the Orphean lyre;
But from this awful burthen I full soon
Take refuge and beguile myself with trust
That mellower years will bring a riper mind
And clearer insight. Thus my days are past
In contradiction; with no skill to part
Vague longing, haply bred by want of power,
From paramount impulse not to be withstood,
A timorous capacity, from prudence,
From circumspection, infinite delay.
Humility and modest awe, themselves
Betray me, serving often for a cloak
To a more subtle selfishness; that now
Locks every function up in blank reserve,
Now dupes me, trusting to an anxious eye
That with intrusive restlessness beats off
Simplicity and self-presented truth.
Ah! better far than this, to stray about
Voluptuously through fields and rural walks,
And ask no record of the hours, resigned
To vacant musing, unreproved neglect
Of all things, and deliberate holiday.
Far better never to have heard the name
Of zeal and just ambition, than to live
Baffled and plagued by a mind that every hour
Turns recreant to her task; takes heart again,
Then feels immediately some hollow thought
Hang like an interdict upon her hopes.
This is my lot; for either still I find
Some imperfection in the chosen theme,
Or see of absolute accomplishment
Much wanting, so much wanting, in myself,
That I recoil and droop, and seek repose
In listlessness from vain perplexity,
Unprofitably travelling toward the grave,
Like a false steward who hath much received
And renders nothing back.
Was it for this
That one, the fairest of all rivers, loved
To blend his murmurs with my nurse's song,
And, from his alder shades and rocky falls,
And from his fords and shallows, sent a voice
That flowed along my dreams? For this, didst thou,
O Derwent! winding among grassy holms
Where I was looking on, a babe in arms,
Make ceaseless music that composed my thoughts
To more than infant softness, giving me
Amid the fretful dwellings of mankind
A foretaste, a dim earnest, of the calm
That Nature breathes among the hills and groves.
When he had left the mountains and received
On his smooth breast the shadow of those towers
That yet survive, a shattered monument
Of feudal sway, the bright blue river passed
Along the margin of our terrace walk;
A tempting playmate whom we dearly loved.
Oh, many a time have I, a five years' child,
In a small mill-race severed from his stream,
Made one long bathing of a summer's day;
Basked in the sun, and plunged and basked again
Alternate, all a summer's day, or scoured
The sandy fields, leaping through flowery groves
Of yellow ragwort; or, when rock and hill,
The woods, and distant Skiddaw's lofty height,
Were bronzed with deepest radiance, stood alone
Beneath the sky, as if I had been born
On Indian plains, and from my mother's hut
Had run abroad in wantonness, to sport
A naked savage, in the thunder shower.
Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up
Fostered alike by beauty and by fear:
Much favoured in my birth-place, and no less
In that beloved Vale to which erelong
We were transplanted;--there were we let loose
For sports of wider range. Ere I had told
Ten birth-days, when among the mountain slopes
Frost, and the breath of frosty wind, had snapped
The last autumnal crocus, 'twas my joy
With store of springes o'er my shoulder hung
To range the open heights where woodcocks run
Along the smooth green turf. Through half the night,
Scudding away from snare to snare, I plied
That anxious visitation;--moon and stars
Were shining o'er my head. I was alone,
And seemed to be a trouble to the peace
That dwelt among them. Sometimes it befell
In these night wanderings, that a strong desire
O'erpowered my better reason, and the bird
Which was the captive of another's toil
Became my prey; and when the deed was done
I heard among the solitary hills
Low breathings coming after me, and sounds
Of undistinguishable motion, steps
Almost as silent as the turf they trod.
Nor less, when spring had warmed the cultured Vale,
Moved we as plunderers where the mother-bird
Had in high places built her lodge; though mean
Our object and inglorious, yet the end
Was not ignoble. Oh! when I have hung
Above the raven's nest, by knots of grass
And half-inch fissures in the slippery rock
But ill sustained, and almost (so it seemed)
Suspended by the blast that blew amain,
Shouldering the naked crag, oh, at that time
While on the perilous ridge I hung alone,
With what strange utterance did the loud dry wind
Blow through my ear! the sky seemed not a sky
Of earth--and with what motion moved the clouds!
Dust as we are, the immortal spirit grows
Like harmony in music; there is a dark
Inscrutable workmanship that reconciles
Discordant elements, makes them cling together
In one society. How strange, that all
The terrors, pains, and early miseries,
Regrets, vexations, lassitudes interfused
Within my mind, should e'er have borne a part,
And that a needful part, in making up
The calm existence that is mine when I
Am worthy of myself! Praise to the end!
Thanks to the means which Nature deigned to employ;
Whether her fearless visitings, or those
That came with soft alarm, like hurtless light
Opening the peaceful clouds; or she would use
Severer interventions, ministry
More palpable, as best might suit her aim.
One summer evening (led by her) I found
A little boat tied to a willow tree
Within a rocky cave, its usual home.
Straight I unloosed her chain, and stepping in
Pushed from the shore. It was an act of stealth
And troubled pleasure, nor without the voice
Of mountain-echoes did my boat move on;
Leaving behind her still, on either side,
Small circles glittering idly in the moon,
Until they melted all into one track
Of sparkling light. But now, like one who rows,
Proud of his skill, to reach a chosen point
With an unswerving line, I fixed my view
Upon the summit of a craggy ridge,
The horizon's utmost boundary; far above
Was nothing but the stars and the grey sky.
She was an elfin pinnace; lustily
I dipped my oars into the silent lake,
And, as I rose upon the stroke, my boat
Went heaving through the water like a swan;
When, from behind that craggy steep till then
The horizon's bound, a huge peak, black and huge,
As if with voluntary power instinct,
Upreared its head. I struck and struck again,
And growing still in stature the grim shape
Towered up between me and the stars, and still,
For so it seemed, with purpose of its own
And measured motion like a living thing,
Strode after me. With trembling oars I turned,
And through the silent water stole my way
Back to the covert of the willow tree;
There in her mooring-place I left my bark,--
And through the meadows homeward went, in grave
And serious mood; but after I had seen
That spectacle, for many days, my brain
Worked with a dim and undetermined sense
Of unknown modes of being; o'er my thoughts
There hung a darkness, call it solitude
Or blank desertion. No familiar shapes
Remained, no pleasant images of trees,
Of sea or sky, no colours of green fields;
But huge and mighty forms, that do not live
Like living men, moved slowly through the mind
By day, and were a trouble to my dreams.
Wisdom and Spirit of the universe!
Thou Soul that art the eternity of thought
That givest to forms and images a breath
And everlasting motion, not in vain
By day or star-light thus from my first dawn
Of childhood didst thou intertwine for me
The passions that build up our human soul;
Not with the mean and vulgar works of man,
But with high objects, with enduring things--
With life and nature--purifying thus
The elements of feeling and of thought,
And sanctifying, by such discipline,
Both pain and fear, until we recognise
A grandeur in the beatings of the heart.
Nor was this fellowship vouchsafed to me
With stinted kindness. In November days,
When vapours rolling down the valley made
A lonely scene more lonesome, among woods,
At noon and 'mid the calm of summer nights,
When, by the margin of the trembling lake,
Beneath the gloomy hills homeward I went
In solitude, such intercourse was mine;
Mine was it in the fields both day and night,
And by the waters, all the summer long.
And in the frosty season, when the sun
Was set, and visible for many a mile
The cottage windows blazed through twilight gloom,
I heeded not their summons: happy time
It was indeed for all of us--for me
It was a time of rapture! Clear and loud
The village clock tolled six,--I wheeled about,
Proud and exulting like an untired horse
That cares not for his home. All shod with steel,
We hissed along the polished ice in games
Confederate, imitative of the chase
And woodland pleasures,--the resounding horn,
The pack loud chiming, and the hunted hare.
So through the darkness and the cold we flew,
And not a voice was idle; with the din
Smitten, the precipices rang aloud;
The leafless trees and every icy crag
Tinkled like iron; while far distant hills
Into the tumult sent an alien sound
Of melancholy not unnoticed, while the stars
Eastward were sparkling clear, and in the west
The orange sky of evening died away.
Not seldom from the uproar I retired
Into a silent bay, or sportively
Glanced sideway, leaving the tumultuous throng,
To cut across the reflex of a star
That fled, and, flying still before me, gleamed
Upon the glassy plain; and oftentimes,
When we had given our bodies to the wind,
And all the shadowy banks on either side
Came sweeping through the darkness, spinning still
The rapid line of motion, then at once
Have I, reclining back upon my heels,
Stopped short; yet still the solitary cliffs
Wheeled by me--even as if the earth had rolled
With visible motion her diurnal round!
Behind me did they stretch in solemn train,
Feebler and feebler, and I stood and watched
Till all was tranquil as a dreamless sleep.
Ye Presences of Nature in the sky
And on the earth! Ye Visions of the hills!
And Souls of lonely places! can I think
A vulgar hope was yours when ye employed
Such ministry, when ye, through many a year
Haunting me thus among my boyish sports,
On caves and trees, upon the woods and hills,
Impressed, upon all forms, the characters
Of danger or desire; and thus did make
The surface of the universal earth,
With triumph and delight, with hope and fear,
Work like a sea?
Not uselessly employed,
Might I pursue this theme through every change
Of exercise and play, to which the year
Did summon us in his delightful round.
We were a noisy crew; the sun in heaven
Beheld not vales more beautiful than ours;
Nor saw a band in happiness and joy
Richer, or worthier of the ground they trod.
I could record with no reluctant voice
The woods of autumn, and their hazel bowers
With milk-white clusters hung; the rod and line,
True symbol of hope's foolishness, whose strong
And unreproved enchantment led us on
By rocks and pools shut out from every star,
All the green summer, to forlorn cascades
Among the windings hid of mountain brooks.
--Unfading recollections! at this hour
The heart is almost mine with which I felt,
From some hill-top on sunny afternoons,
The paper kite high among fleecy clouds
Pull at her rein like an impetuous courser;
Or, from the meadows sent on gusty days,
Beheld her breast the wind, then suddenly
Dashed headlong, and rejected by the storm.
Ye lowly cottages wherein we dwelt,
A ministration of your own was yours;
Can I forget you, being as you were
So beautiful among the pleasant fields
In which ye stood? or can I here forget
The plain and seemly countenance with which
Ye dealt out your plain comforts? Yet had ye
Delights and exultations of your own.
Eager and never weary we pursued
Our home-amusements by the warm peat-fire
At evening, when with pencil, and smooth slate
In square divisions parcelled out and all
With crosses and with cyphers scribbled o'er,
We schemed and puzzled, head opposed to head
In strife too humble to be named in verse:
Or round the naked table, snow-white deal,
Cherry or maple, sate in close array,
And to the combat, Loo or Whist, led on
A thick-ribbed army; not, as in the world,
Neglected and ungratefully thrown by
Even for the very service they had wrought,
But husbanded through many a long campaign.
Uncouth assemblage was it, where no few
Had changed their functions: some, plebeian cards
Which Fate, beyond the promise of their birth,
Had dignified, and called to represent
The persons of departed potentates.
Oh, with what echoes on the board they fell!
Ironic diamonds,--clubs, hearts, diamonds, spades,
A congregation piteously akin!
Cheap matter offered they to boyish wit,
Those sooty knaves, precipitated down
With scoffs and taunts, like Vulcan out of heaven:
The paramount ace, a moon in her eclipse,
Queens gleaming through their splendour's last decay,
And monarchs surly at the wrongs sustained
By royal visages. Meanwhile abroad
Incessant rain was falling, or the frost
Raged bitterly, with keen and silent tooth;
And, interrupting oft that eager game,
From under Esthwaite's splitting fields of ice
The pent-up air, struggling to free itself,
Gave out to meadow grounds and hills a loud
Protracted yelling, like the noise of wolves
Howling in troops along the Bothnic Main.
Nor, sedulous as I have been to trace
How Nature by extrinsic passion first
Peopled the mind with forms sublime or fair,
And made me love them, may I here omit
How other pleasures have been mine, and joys
Of subtler origin; how I have felt,
Not seldom even in that tempestuous time,
Those hallowed and pure motions of the sense
Which seem, in their simplicity, to own
An intellectual charm; that calm delight
Which, if I err not, surely must belong
To those first-born affinities that fit
Our new existence to existing things,
And, in our dawn of being, constitute
The bond of union between life and joy.
Yes, I remember when the changeful earth,
And twice five summers on my mind had stamped
The faces of the moving year, even then
I held unconscious intercourse with beauty
Old as creation, drinking in a pure
Organic pleasure from the silver wreaths
Of curling mist, or from the level plain
Of waters coloured by impending clouds.
The sands of Westmoreland, the creeks and bays
Of Cumbria's rocky limits, they can tell
How, when the Sea threw off his evening shade,
And to the shepherd's hut on distant hills
Sent welcome notice of the rising moon,
How I have stood, to fancies such as these
A stranger, linking with the spectacle
No conscious memory of a kindred sight,
And bringing with me no peculiar sense
Of quietness or peace; yet have I stood,
Even while mine eye hath moved o'er many a league
Of shining water, gathering as it seemed,
Through every hair-breadth in that field of light,
New pleasure like a bee among the flowers.
Thus oft amid those fits of vulgar joy
Which, through all seasons, on a child's pursuits
Are prompt attendants, 'mid that giddy bliss
Which, like a tempest, works along the blood
And is forgotten; even then I felt
Gleams like the flashing of a shield;--the earth
And common face of Nature spake to me
Rememberable things; sometimes, 'tis true,
By chance collisions and quaint accidents
(Like those ill-sorted unions, work supposed
Of evil-minded fairies), yet not vain
Nor profitless, if haply they impressed
Collateral objects and appearances,
Albeit lifeless then, and doomed to sleep
Until maturer seasons called them forth
To impregnate and to elevate the mind.
--And if the vulgar joy by its own weight
Wearied itself out of the memory,
The scenes which were a witness of that joy
Remained in their substantial lineaments
Depicted on the brain, and to the eye
Were visible, a daily sight; and thus
By the impressive discipline of fear,
By pleasure and repeated happiness,
So frequently repeated, and by force
Of obscure feelings representative
Of things forgotten, these same scenes so bright,
So beautiful, so majestic in themselves,
Though yet the day was distant, did become
Habitually dear, and all their forms
And changeful colours by invisible links
Were fastened to the affections.
I began
My story early--not misled, I trust,
By an infirmity of love for days
Disowned by memory--ere the breath of spring
Planting my snowdrops among winter snows:
Nor will it seem to thee, O Friend! so prompt
In sympathy, that I have lengthened out
With fond and feeble tongue a tedious tale.
Meanwhile, my hope has been, that I might fetch
Invigorating thoughts from former years;
Might fix the wavering balance of my mind,
And haply meet reproaches too, whose power
May spur me on, in manhood now mature
To honourable toil. Yet should these hopes
Prove vain, and thus should neither I be taught
To understand myself, nor thou to know
With better knowledge how the heart was framed
Of him thou lovest; need I dread from thee
Harsh judgments, if the song be loth to quit
Those recollected hours that have the charm
Of visionary things, those lovely forms
And sweet sensations that throw back our life,
And almost make remotest infancy
A visible scene, on which the sun is shining?
One end at least hath been attained; my mind
Hath been revived, and if this genial mood
Desert me not, forthwith shall be brought down
Through later years the story of my life.
The road lies plain before me;--'tis a theme
Single and of determined bounds; and hence
I choose it rather at this time, than work
Of ampler or more varied argument,
Where I might be discomfited and lost:
And certain hopes are with me, that to thee
This labour will be welcome, honoured Friend!
You'll never have
another chance
as good
as this
you'll never be
more bolder
more able to
than this
so have your mid-life crisis
when you're 7 or  8
(don't leave it too late)
so that
you can get on
&
grow up to be
the self that you
should be.
Among the things enriching,
That helped to shape my life,
Was the county fair
With fond memories in rife.
October of each year,
The fair would come to town.
The rides were fun, and the air cool—
With temperatures way down.
Hotdog, soda, candy apple—
There was much to eat.
But popcorn and cotton candy
Were my favorite treats.
Neon signs. Booming music.
Electrifying atmosphere.
Rides. Zoo. And exhibits.
Haunted houses—if you'd dare.
Ferris wheel for the sedentary.
Roller coaster for the brave.
Merry-go-round for the toddler.
The bumper car was raved.
A chance to win stuffed animals,
Dinnerware, and all else.
Just play the game, and hit it right;
Then choose the prize yourself.
The crowds were huge and excited,
Folks from everywhere.
‘Twas hard to find a parking space
At the county fair.
Life can be so much fun,
In spite of everything else.
So, take time to smell the roses,
And enjoy yourself.
Most of us had childhood books
The meant so much to us long ago
We can remember the story if not the words
It seems we cannot let it go
That’s the way I feel about my favorite
Called Poppy the Four Inch Fairy
I’ve looked and looked on the internet
I’ve sent out so many queries
But nothing, my friend, have I gotten
For feedback of my favorite book
Little Poppy is lost forever
She is nowhere that I look
So I guess she will live only in my memory
I can picture her with her light brown curls
Investigating a dollhouse because
Into the world of giants she was hurled
I’ll bet you have special memories too
Of childhood books from long ago
That will stay in your mind forever
And you too cannot let them go!
It would be good to reminisce
of all that's lost from childhood afternoons,
can they return to me, I miss
those endless hours that are now in ruins.
It does return now, gently, still
perhaps in all the drops of a warm rain
yet we've forgotten what it will
remind us now of riches and no bane
of seeing and just living without care
like creatures yet as humans with no fear
and filled up to the locks of children's hair
a figure of a Thing, it would appear.
The shepherd's loneliness then, in the end
weighed down with endless distances today
and called as if ordained, touched by a friend
a lengthy thread of images, astray
in which it is no use simply to dwell
there is no memory for us to know
and to a stranger, childhood thoughts will tell
of afternoons, where life itself was slow.
Written 1906 in Paris
My version of a translation.
The sharp, irregular knock of wooden
brush’s shoulder against skirting-board,
punctuated with the lighter tap
of brush on pan, the contents neatly
tapped back into its metal or plastic maw;
the knocks, sometimes gentle
with the happiness of home and heart;
sometimes, sharper, as if they carry
unspoken messages of time too short,
and tempers too..
not today the hoovering intake of that continuous
indrawn mechanical breath that so disturbs
domestic pets; that brings unease to the couch potato,
a guilt just short of offer to assist…
these unexpected  memories stirred
of simpler times and childhood’s unappreciated
securities, then taken so for granted..
how sweet, nostalgia’s evocations of the so selective heart…
fact is, there comes a time when wisdom’s word
is that it's now the time of life when one would be advised
to risk no longer, the pythonic entanglements,
the tempted fate, Miltonic fall,
domestic heaven turned disjointed hell,
of vacuuming the stairs…
*   [and a Betjemanesque coda for Dan Tyler: ]
Time now to cease unequal fight;
Nor trip on cord - Satanic the machine;
Hoover no longer to dust-free Jerusalem
In England's suburbs, leafy, green...
When I was very little
I use to dream that I could fly.
I'd put some rubber bans around my shoes
leaped up and I was flying in the sky!
Flying over hill and dale
looking down on those I knew.
They would look up at me in wonder
all wondering how I flew.
I'm older now and don't seem to dream that way
was that only for that time?
How complex the human brain can be
all those thoughts trapped in our minds.
I dream today, that is for certain
but some I can't recall.
And then there are days, they all go away
before I awake I've lost them all.
Where do these dreams originate?
Are they coming from another place and time?
Or are they just the brains way of escaping
the daily stresses of my mind?
For now I'll just have to sleep and dream
dream what my mind has in store.
But I hope one day, Childhood dreams of flight
of jumping high in the sky to sore!
Sunlight peeps thru closed curtains
like a sleepy child, nodding in - out
yet you sleep. the wave of pre-dawn
passion, renaming lost childhood dreams
I often wonder about some childhood friend,
how at the time we were pardners, for life
what has become of him? is he sitting
somewhere with a cup of coffee?
I touch your skin, to gently introduce you
to a new day, and you with a smile, say
'I was just dreaming about you' thus
leaving my thoughts of childhood friends
Childhood Faded away,
to a far away land,
simple, so simple were we,
Days of Play,
Going our Way,
Having fun, no care,
for another day,
time for us stood still,
playing king of the hill
Childhood Faded away
thinking of another day,
summer time was fine,
when friends were kind,
swiming holes were filled,
our hearts were thrilled
Childhood Faded Away
to a time that makes me sway
many years have passed away,
since childhood faded to another day,
Childhood Faded to places,
UNKNOWN TO US
floating somewhere in time.
wrote 1-15-07
Cheap and charming items
Settle on the numerous tables
Of my grandparents' customary yard sale.
Bugs visit them all on this hot but vital weekend.
One object stands out in somewhat of a spotlight.
The item is a pink dollhouse full of memory-rooms.
Once I explored it with youthful eyes –
Now that type of immature play I despise.
If I could put a price on Childhood – what would it be?
A penny or two – at the most – three.
Rummaging our way,
Through the school backyard,
Borrowing chalks, the ball, and
The bun from Mrs.Cook...
(But we ain't asking permission)
I never felt sorry...
Because she was with me...
Jumping over the stone fence
Into Old Mr.Grumpy's orchard...
Stealing oranges and hurling grapes at him...
When he chases us around....the shivering creature...
I never felt any pity...
When she was near me....
Sticking out our tongues at minors...
Grabbing lollipops off their hands...
Handing them a candy,
We smirk round the corner...
(A wrap around a stone...Hehe)
I never felt culpable...
Indeed, she was with me...
Blaming each other when caught...
So elders might confuse...
Hiding their keys,
For a day and a night....
I never felt guilty,
When she was with me....
There was a time when I was very small,
When my whole frame was but an ell in height;
Sweetly, as I recall it, tears do fall,
And therefore I recall it with delight.
I sported in my tender mother's arms,
And rode a-horseback on best father's knee;
Alike were sorrows, passions and alarms,
And gold, and Greek, and love, unknown to me,
Then seemed to me this world far less in size,
Likewise it seemed to me less wicked far;
Like points in heaven, I saw the stars arise,
And longed for wings that I might catch a star.
I saw the moon behind the island fade,
And thought, 'Oh, were I on that island there,
I could find out of what the moon is made,
Find out how large it is, how round, how fair!'
Wondering, I saw God's sun, through western skies,
Sink in the ocean's golden lap at night,
And yet upon the morrow early rise,
And paint the eastern heaven with crimson light;
And thought of God, the gracious Heavenly Father,
Who made me, and that lovely sun on high,
And all those pearls of heaven thick-strung together,
Dropped, clustering, from his hand o'er all the sky.
With childish reverence, my young lips did say
The prayer my pious mother taught to me:
'O gentle God! oh, let me strive alway
Still to be wise, and good, and follow Thee!'
So prayed I for my father and my mother,
And for my sister, and for all the town;
The king I knew not, and the beggar-brother,
Who, bent with age, went, sighing, up and down.
They perished, the blithe days of boyhood perished,
And all the gladness, all the peace I knew!
Now have I but their memory, fondly cherished;--
God! may I never lose that too!
So good being a happy kid,
playing with your kit,
even producing sound in a pot,
when the country's in peace actually.
having someone to rely on,
Elder ones tells you come on,
you feel like flying on,
you with confidence of protection.
Dreams of being high,
everything becomes possible,
even escaping to die,
fighting Ghost your capable.
Dreaming being in the middle of every things,
sometimes on merry-go-round,
or in the middle of the foods you like to eat,
even finding money on every step you're stepping.
Acting your Father if he isn't scary,
running to mama when you are scared,
hiding you body putting your hands on your eyes
every thing's possible with simple formula r.
I lay my head sideways on the desk,
My fingers interlocked under my cheekbones,
My eyes closed. It was a three-room schoolhouse,
White, with a small bell tower, an oak tree.
From where I sat, on still days, I'd watch
The oak, the prisoner of that sky, or read
The desk carved with adults' names: Marietta
Martin, Truman Finnell, Marjorie Elm;
The wood hacked or lovingly hollowed, the flies
Settling on the obsolete & built-in inkwells.
I remember, tonight, only details, how
Mrs. Avery, now gone, was standing then
In her beige dress, its quiet, gazelle print
Still dark with lines of perspiration from
The day before; how Gracie Chin had just
Shown me how to draw, with chalk, a Chinese
Ideogram. Where did she go, white thigh
With one still freckle, lost in silk?
No one would say for sure, so that I'd know,
So that all shapes, for days after, seemed
Brushstrokes in Chinese: countries on maps
That shifted, changed colors, or disappeared:
Lithuania, Prussia, Bessarabia;
The numbers four & seven; the question mark.
That year, I ate almost nothing.
I thought my parents weren't my real parents,
I thought there'd been some terrible mistake.
At recess I would sit alone, seeing
In the print of each leaf shadow, an ideogram—
Still, indecipherable, beneath the green sound
The bell still made, even after it had faded,
When the dust-covered leaves of the oak tree
Quivered, slightly, if I looked up in time.
And my father, so distant in those days,
Where did he go, that autumn, when he chose
The chaste, faint ideogram of ash, & I had
To leave him there, white bones in a puzzle
By a plum tree, the sun rising over
The Sierras? It is not Chinese, but English—
When the past tense, when you first learn to use it
As a child, throws all the verbs in the language
Into the long, flat shade of houses you
Ride past, & into town. Your father's driving.
On winter evenings, the lights would come on earlier.
People would be shopping for Christmas. Each hand,
With the one whorl of its fingerprints, with twenty
Delicate bones inside it, reaching up
To touch some bolt of cloth, or choose a gift,
A little different from any other hand.
You know how the past tense turns a sentence dark,
But leaves names, lovers, places showing through:
Gracie Chin, my father, Lithuania;
A beige dress where dark gazelles hold still?
Outside, it's snowing, cold, & a New Year.
The trees & streets are turning white.
I always thought he would come back like this.
I always thought he wouldn't dare be seen.
In a land far far away
Lived pixies
and elves
and fairies
and goblins
A fantasy which I had fallen in love with.
In a deep dark cave
Lived a huge, dangerous
Monster
That was loud and ferocious
And that was an example of
What scared little children like me.
In the mysterious blue sea
Lived a beautiful mermaid
She was so pretty
That whoever set sight on her
Was mesmerized
How I wished to have had her beauty.
In an eerie, weird forest
Hid a sly, wicked witch
Who casts evil spells
Who abducts naughty children
And locks them up in a cell.
How frightening it was!
In the bizarre outer space...
Come on people move
For childhood is calling
time to get up and groove
there is no time for stalling
Enjoy the warm sunny day
and chase all of your blues away
this is a day that is so enthralling
listen, as your childhood is calling
old men sit and are soon recalling
and slowly as their hair is graying
they hear the siren song of youth playing
saying that their childhood is calling
the time is slipping away so quickly,
so run fast and catch the dying sun
for childhood is calling
and your life has just begun
JPM 1/4/2008 - 1/11/2008
down the rabbit hole
of childhood memories
we tumble into lost world
watching Tobby Grandma’s dog
leap with incredible canine joy
baited by tumbling flowing water
of garden hose patterned fountains
my Father makes beside the path above
grass to entice Tobbies aerial antics
somersaults all viewing smile must
delight in, like magic, Tobby appears
across paddock with elfin liquid speed
always seeming to know when Father
waters the vegetable garden with sixth
dog sense following nose on summer
days yesteryear breezes leaps small boys
also into a myriad of adventures running
in fleeting moccasin grasses like an Indian
running playing chase in tall tree branches
with imaginative spirit that knew Great Spirit
despite an ocean of time and cultural difference
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Back when I was a kid at play,
we played  games throughout the day,
Telephone wires that snapped on the ground,
were our skipping ropes we had found.
Stilts were made from wood poles so grand,
Walked my brother from a roof tops  across the land.
Back yard swamps were cleared during autumn rush,
Which made winter skating go from Dawn to Dusk.
An important  roll my big brother did play,
Tying a rope around me,  on hot swimming days,
Someone would ask,  'What good will that do.'
-'Just pull me up,  if I  should turn blue.'
Needing some money,  we walked the ditch,
looking for pop bottles to make our pitch.
Our crew hiked to town,  It was our only way,
To see a good movie on a free Saturday.
Now the woods was a place of wonder
Rocking ourselves from one pine tree  to another.
Forts were built,  and hide and seek  played.
From the house,  the cars horn blew by end of day.
Oh how  I miss the days as a kid
When your imagination ran wild through your head
Friendships held strong,  throughout the years
The trust has remained,  as we laugh with tears.
CHILDHOOD MEMORIES
I still remember my childhood,
Love, affection and chide of my mother,
Weeping in a false manner,
Playing in the moonlight,
Struggles with cousins and companions,
Psuedo-chide of my father,
I still have everything with me,
But i miss,
Those childhood memories
I use to sharpen the teacher's pencils
I erased the chalk from our classroom boards.
I always waited for you out at recess
by the swing sets or under a sliding board.
I carried your books for you to class
like any good friend would do.
But one day you forgot, of who I was
in that time that I knew of you.
My name is of no importance now
I'm a face you wouldn't even know.
But as children sharing cookies and milk
these are those Childhood Memories I hold.
Your desk was right in front of mine
I remember the smell, of your braided shampooed hair.
And when you were home, with some sickness unknown
I made sure to go sit in your chair.
I carved my initials in the top of your desk
and surrounded it with a heart.
Was hoping one day, while you were away
to give your initials their beginning, their start.
I was moved and never got my chance
to finish what was I had started.
But one day I hope, to send you this note
Telling you how sad, that are lives have parted.
Maybe you'll find, some memories of mine
in a moment you bring to thought.
Then you will see, what your memories have meant to me
in a childhood memory of me you lost.
Rays of light flow through the glass,
Flittering memories of the past.
Of happy times and playful things,
like a baby bird spreading its wings.
Flying through the sunlit air,
without worries without cares.
Its simple nature so soft and calm,
Beckons everyone like a charm.
A little fox running through the trees,
fields of flowers and their bees.
So close to heart and yet so far,
A child's life is like a shining star.
Some people have a childhood garden
Filled with green and growing things
Some people have a childhood garden
Filled with purple peonies
Mine is sere
Throughout the year
Nothing grows here
Some people have a childhood rainbow
A sea of colors all aglow
Some people have a childhood rainbow
Red to violet in a row
Mine is gray
Bow of clay
Without a ray
Some people have a childhood temple
Covered with a million treasured dreams
Some people have a childhood temple
A sunny Wat of Gods and kings
Mine is plain
Squats in the rain
Functional 'n sane
Where childhood memories abound
Life flows vividly around
Where childhood memories have fled
Hearts lie dead
I become stronger when I am in her presence
For even she knows that she is my quintessence
I watch her sleep trying to unveil her identity
As those pretty coloured eyes open to greet me
A smile forms on her beautiful face
Unsurprisingly sleep hasn't left it's trace
My lips met her lips to greet them to a new day
Eyes lingering on her wrists as I pull away
I can feel her heart beginning to race
As I see the aching pain on her innocent face
Fresh scars that I never knew exist
Have taken their place on her fragile wrist
Taking her hands in mine I kiss the scars on her wrist
Tears rolled from her eyes the moment I had kissed
I whisper in her ears that everything will be fine
Whilst wishing all of her pain becomes mine
Watching her suffer continues to tear me apart
Will her childhood memories ever depart
She cuts herself to ease the unbearable pain
No matter how hard she tries it's all in vain
My mind asks how long will this pain go on for?
Common sense tells me I can't take no more
Instinct reassures me that I will make it through
After all the advice I still don’t know what to do
I wonder when the healing process will start
So that her past and present can drift apart
Will pain take mercy on her innocent soul
Or will it crush her wings causing her to fall
I wait for her pain to be washed away by the rain
So that she can forget her past to start all over again
The most enjoying period in one's life,
Is the exciting childhood life.
There is so much time for play,
And also make things with clay.
We make many friends,
And chat away to no ends.
There is no need to worry,
Or to be in a hurry.
There are no tensions,
For we do'nt look for pensions.
Such a quiet, pleasant life,
Is the wonderful Childhood life.
There is no need to carry loads,
Or work day in and out laying roads.
But a much simpler job-Studying,
Which is the only short cut for prospering.
Oh! childhood, how I wish to get it back,
But could recollect memories preserved in a rack.
So friend, enjoy the childhood to the content of the heart,
But without neglecting the studies part.
Ah me! conceiv'd in sin, and born in sorrow,
A nothing, here to day, but gone to morrow,
Whose mean beginning, blushing can't reveal,
But night and darkness must with shame conceal.
My mother's breeding sickness, I will spare,
Her nine months' weary burden not declare.
To shew her bearing pangs, I should do wrong,
To tell that pain, which can't be told by tongue.
With tears into this world I did arrive;
My mother still did waste, as I did thrive,
Who yet with love and all alacrity,
Spending was willing to be spent for me.
With wayward cries, I did disturb her rest,
Who sought still to appease me with her breast;
With weary arms, she danc'd, and By, By, sung,
When wretched I (ungrate) had done the wrong.
When Infancy was past, my Childishness
Did act all folly that it could express.
My silliness did only take delight
In that which riper age did scorn and slight,
In Rattles, Bables, and such toyish stuff.
My then ambitious thoughts were low enough.
My high-born soul so straitly was confin'd
That its own worth it did not know nor mind.
This little house of flesh did spacious count,
Through ignorance, all troubles did surmount,
Yet this advantage had mine ignorance,
Freedom from Envy and from Arrogance.
How to be rich, or great, I did not cark,
A Baron or a Duke ne'r made my mark,
Nor studious was, Kings favours how to buy,
With costly presents, or base flattery;
No office coveted, wherein I might
Make strong my self and turn aside weak right.
No malice bare to this or that great Peer,
Nor unto buzzing whisperers gave ear.
I gave no hand, nor vote, for death, or life.
I'd nought to do, 'twixt Prince, and peoples' strife.
No Statist I: nor Marti'list i' th' field.
Where e're I went, mine innocence was shield.
My quarrels, not for Diadems, did rise,
But for an Apple, Plumb, or some such prize.
My strokes did cause no death, nor wounds, nor scars.
My little wrath did cease soon as my wars.
My duel was no challenge, nor did seek.
My foe should weltering, with his bowels reek.
I had no Suits at law, neighbours to vex,
Nor evidence for land did me perplex.
I fear'd no storms, nor all the winds that blows.
I had no ships at Sea, no fraughts to loose.
I fear'd no drought, nor wet; I had no crop,
Nor yet on future things did place my hope.
This was mine innocence, but oh the seeds
Lay raked up of all the cursed weeds,
Which sprouted forth in my insuing age,
As he can tell, that next comes on the stage.
But let me yet relate, before I go,
The sins and dangers I am subject to:
From birth stained, with Adam's sinful fact,
From thence I 'gan to sin, as soon as act;
A perverse will, a love to what's forbid;
A serpent's sting in pleasing face lay hid;
A lying tongue as soon as it could speak
And fifth Commandment do daily break;
Oft stubborn, peevish, sullen, pout, and cry;
Then nought can please, and yet I know not why.
As many was my sins, so dangers too,
For sin brings sorrow, sickness, death, and woe,
And though I miss the tossings of the mind,
Yet griefs in my frail flesh I still do find.
What gripes of wind, mine infancy did pain?
What tortures I, in breeding teeth sustain?
What crudities my cold stomach hath bred?
Whence vomits, worms, and flux have issued?
What breaches, knocks, and falls I daily have?
And some perhaps, I carry to my grave.
Sometimes in fire, sometimes in water fall:
Strangely preserv'd, yet mind it not at all.
At home, abroad, my danger's manifold
That wonder 'tis, my glass till now doth hold.
I've done: unto my elders I give way,
For 'tis but little that a child can say.
I.
That idol, black eyes and yellow mop, without parents or court,
nobler than Mexican and Flemish fables;
his domain, insolent azure and verdure,
runs over beaches called by the shipless waves,
names ferociously Greek, Slav, Celt.
At the border of the forest-- dream flowers tinkle, flash, and flare,--
the girl with orange lips, knees
crossed in the clear flood that gushes from the fields,
nakedness shaded, traversed, dressed by rainbow, flora, sea.
Ladies who stroll on terraces adjacent to the sea;
baby girls and giantesses,
superb blacks in the verdigris moss,
jewels upright on the rich ground
of groves and little thawed gardens,--
young mothers and big sisters with eyes full of pilgrimages,
sultanas, princesses tyrannical of costume and carriage,
little foreign misses and young ladies gently unhappy.
What boredom, the hour of the 'dear body' and 'dear heart.'
II.
It is she, the little girl, dead behind the rosebushes. --
The young mamma, deceased, comes down the stoop.--
The cousin's carriage creaks on the sand.--
The little brother (he is in India!) there,
before the western sky in the meadow of pinks.
The old men who have been buried upright
in the rampart overgrown with gillyflowers.
Swarms of golden leaves surround the general's house.
They are in the south.--
You follow the red road to reach the empty inn.
The chateau is for sale; the shutters are coming off.
The priest must have taken away the key of the church.
Around the park the keepers' cottages are uninhabited.
The enclosures are so high that nothing
can be seen but the rustling tree tops.
Besides, there is nothing to be seen within.
The meadows go up to the hamlets without anvils or cocks.
The sluice gate is open.
O the Calvaries and the windmills of the desert,
the islands and the haystacks!
Magic flowers droned.
The slopes cradled him.
Beasts of a fabulous elegance moved about.
The clouds gathered over the high sea,
formed of an eternity of hot tears.
III.
In the woods there is a bird;
his song stops you and makes you blush.
There is a clock that never strikes.
There is a hollow with a nest of white beasts.
There is a cathedral that goes down and a lake that goes up.
There is a little carriage abandoned in the copse
or that goes running down the road beribboned.
There is a troupe of little actors in costume, glimpsed on the road
through the border of the woods.
And then, when you are hungry and thirsty,
there is someone who drives you away.
IV.
I am the saint at prayer on the terrace
like the peaceful beasts
that graze down to the sea of Palestine.
I am the scholar of the dark armchair.
Branches and rain hurl themselves at the windows of my library.
I am the pedestrian of the highroad by way of the dwarf woods;
the roar of the sluices drowns my steps.
I can see for a long time the melancholy wash of the setting sun.
I might well be the child abandoned on the jetty
on its way to the high seas, the little farm boy following the lane,
its forehead touching the sky. The paths are rough.
The hillocks are covered with broom.
The air is motionless. How far away are the birds and the springs!
It can only be the end of the world ahead.
V.
Let them rent me this whitewashed tomb, at last,
with cement lines in relief,-- far down under ground.
I lean my elbows on the table,
the lamp shines brightly on these newspapers
I am fool enough to read again, these stupid books.
An enormous distance above my subterranean parlor,
houses take root, fogs gather.
The mud is red or black.
Monstrous city, night without end!
Less high are the sewers. At the sides,
nothing but the thickness of the globe.
Chasms of azure, wells of fire perhaps.
Perhaps it is on these levels that moons and comets meet,
fables and seas. In hours of bitterness,
I imagine balls of sapphire, of metal.
I am master of silence.
Why should the semblance of an opening
pale under one corner of the vault?
Memories of childhood prattle sweet,
Strange, funny utterances incomplete;
Toddling walk on the faltering feet,
Falling down, the same to repeat.
The fondly fight among the siblings,
Pulling one another's strings,
Shielding us to mom we cling,
Affectionately she sweet kisses flings.
Later through sweet sour we wade,
Asking mom for sweet lemonade;
Never bothered about sun and shade,
All the day with friends we played.
When came back in game hurt,
With all sort of soil on shirt;
Silently and stealthily came in home
Dad's scolding on us large loom.
Passing away of grandpas
Of great grief it was a cause,
Of saving grace they were straws,
That day our grief we couldn't gauze.
The memories of childhood sweet or sour,
Make a person bloom as crimson flower;
When I think of the affectionate bower,
I feel as fresh as if I just had a shower.
Childhood, sweet and sunny childhood,
With its careless, thoughtless air,
Like the verdant, tangled wildwood,
Wants the training hand of care.
See it springing all around us --
Glad to know, and quick to learn;
Asking questions that confound us;
Teaching lessons in its turn.
Who loves not its joyous revel,
Leaping lightly on the lawn,
Up the knoll, along the level,
Free and graceful as a fawn?
Let it revel; it is nature
Giving to the little dears
Strength of limb, and healthful features,
For the toil of coming years.
He who checks a child with terror,
Stops its play, and stills its song,
Not alone commits an error,
But a great and moral wrong.
Give it play, and never fear it --
Active life is no defect;
Never, never break its spirit --
Curb it only to direct.
Would you dam the flowing river,
Thinking it would cease to flow?
Onward it must go forever --
Better teach it where to go.
Childhood is a fountain welling,
Trace its channel in the sand,
And its currents, spreading, swelling,
Will revive the withered land.
Childhood is the vernal season;
Trim and train the tender shoot;
Love is to the coming reason,
As the blossom to the fruit.
Tender twigs are bent and folded --
Art to nature beauty lends;
Childhood easily is moulded;
Manhood breaks, but seldom bends.
She does not know that rooms are bleak and bare,
That poverty dwells with us all the while;
It is enough for her that I am there
To praise her little deeds, to sing and smile.
She does not know that heartache hovers near
Above the place where lie her dolls asleep,
That eyes grow wide and dark with naked fear
And life seems such a tired trust to keep.
Sunlight to her is earth's most precious gold,
Daisies and buttercups are jewels rare,
A clump of mignonette is wealth untold,
Her crown a wreath of flowers in her hair.
No banquet hall in all the bounteous land
Has half the glory of a picnic spread
Out on a shining beach, with sun and sand,
Wind in her face, and seagulls overhead.
Oh, may our hearts be glad for common things,
Whitecaps at sea and tattered driftwood piled,
Finding in these the peace that Heaven brings.
Grant us the simple wisdom of a child.
I was unable to read and understand
What were papa up to and his stand?
When he will be angry or loose temper?
When he will embrace me or pamper?
I was feeling secure and happy as child
Mother was always very kind and mild
She looked to me as ocean of love
Ready with delicious food and serve
In her warmth I could feel bright day
She was almost there to show the way
She may forgo her comfort of sleep and say
I must be good boy and attention must pay
Her words are stored as unforgettable memory
When she is not seen around I feel so sorry
I search her here and there with utmost concern
So many things I had yet to follow and learn
Papa sometimes come heavily on me and scolds
Mother at the same time come and warmly holds
What a greatness to shower love with difference?
One must understand and draw lesson with inference
Papa seemed to me very harsh as head of family
He used to hold my hand firmly for mistakes silly
Mother may not interfere and make father angry
She may feed me with love when I felt hungry
Still I felt immense love for father
He was determined to take me further
He made me to look different from others
So I should be of my own and needn’t bother
As parent they taught me lesson with high morality
They did all they could do as per their ability
How to express why I hold then in high esteem? |
May be their intense love which to me possibly seem
Many children may not find situation like this
They might have lost parents and surely miss
Childhood is most important thing to cherish
Their sweet memories remain and don’t vanish
I cannot reach it; and my striving eye
Dazzles at it, as at eternity.
Were now that chronicle alive,
Those white designs which children drive,
And the thoughts of each harmless hour,
With their content, too, in my power,
Quickly would I make my path even,
And by mere playing go to heaven.
Why should men love
A wolf more than a lamb or dove?
Or choose hell-fire and brimstone streams
Before bright stars and God's own beams?
Who kisseth thorns will hurt his face,
But flowers do both refresh and grace,
And sweetly living - fie on men! -
Are, when dead, medicinal then;
If seeing much should make staid eyes,
And long experience should make wise,
Since all that age doth teach is ill,
Why should I not love childhood still?
Why, if I see a rock or shelf,
Shall I from thence cast down myself?
Or by complying with the world,
From the same precipice be hurled?
Those observations are but foul
Which make me wise to lose my soul.
And yet the practice worldlings call
Business, and weighty action all,
Checking the poor child for his play,
But gravely cast themselves away.
Dear, harmless age! the short, swift span
Where weeping Virtue parts with man;
Where love without lust dwells, and bends
What way we please without self-ends.
An age of mysteries! which he
Must live twice that would God's face see;
Which angels guard, and with it play,
Angels! which foul men drive away.
How do I study now, and scan
Thee more than e'er I studied man,
And only see through a long night
Thy edges and thy bordering light!
Oh for thy center and midday!
For sure that is the narrow way!
These recollections with the scent of ferns
Are the idyll of early years
(Gregorio Gutierrez González)
Accompanying the hazy memories
Time so generously glorifies,
Returning to a welcoming heart
And flocking like white butterflies,
Come fantasies of happy childhood days.
Blue Beard, Little Red Ridinghood,
Lilliputians and the giant Gulliver,
All of you, floating in the mist of dreams,
Spread your wings, fly,
So I, the happy journeyer
Through storybooks, may summon you
To join with other, beloved characters.
O blessed youth! Eyes aglimmer
With dawning discovery
Follow the weary teacher’s hand
Across the big red figures
In the tattered primer,
Where traces of vague recognition,
Rewarding periods of youthful despondency,
Beneath indifferent shadows
Begin forming letters into words
On a dewy, white,
Luminous, restless August morning,
Helping a blazing sun rise
On wings of the breeze
Toward skies dotted with drifting clouds;
Listening to a grandmother’s
Exemplary fairy tales;
Skipping school
To organize a clamorous battle
In which rocks rattle like bullets
And a rumpled kerchief becomes a flag.
Constructing a manger scene
Of materials gathered from the woods,
Then, after the long, rowdy outing
Arranging the grasses,
Coral twigs, and treasured mosses,
And on strange and alien landscapes,
Perspectives never seen or dreamed,
Creating roads of golden sand
And waterfalls of gleaming tinsel.
Positioning the Wise Men on the hill
And overhead
The star that led them from afar;
In the crib, the laughing Baby Jesus
In his bed of
Softest mosses and leafy ferns.
Pristine soul, blush-pink cheeks,
Skin like ermine on the snow,
Flaxen curls,
Sparkling yet peaceful eyes, how fair
In memory the innocent babe!
Childhood, hallowed valley
Of blessed calm and coolness,
Where rays that will later blast our days
So softly shine,
How saintly your pure innocence,
How fleeting your brief happiness,
How sweet in hours of bitterness
To turn back to the past
And call upon those memories!
Childhood is rare
Unlike a bear
Childhood is fun
Unlike eating a bun
Childhood is like fire
Like the excitment of getting hired
Childhood is like honey
Like a hopping bunny
Appreciate childhood
Like when you first stood
Appreciate childhood...
At the height of sun-pressed summer
the tar on the seaside pavement
stuck to the Start-Rite sandals
with a sound like half-dried glue.
Gg-luck, went each step. Bliss.
Life needed nothing else.
Because we have not yet lived our life
we do not know - to grasp, or hoard -
that this - to live in the present with every sense,
without a thought, without a care -
is a totality of happiness
we may yearn for later
but may remember
properly
without sentiment,
without regret;
and thus,
forever.
Childhood is not a real hood.
Childhood...
Childhood...
Childhood...
C hildhood...
everyone will always remember there
past times..
we share them with our
friends and family
I sometimes wish
im still in my childhood year
it was so much fun,
playing with my cousins
going to fun places.
Childhood...
Ederley people share it with
the grandkids
I miss my childhood year: (
although i'll never forget it
it'll always be in my heart were
it would never go away.
Listen to their laughter
Listen to them sing
Watch them on the roundabout
Watch them on the swings
See them playing football
See them beam and glow
Innocence of childhood
Why does it not show…
Us … as we get older
How sweet life could be
If … just now and then
We could look and see …
The child … still deep within us
Gentle simplicity
That years and years obliterate
As we become less free
So caught up in the world
It’s complications too…
Wouldn’t it be nicer
If our childhood lasted through….
All our life upon this earth
It’s gentle innocence
Making mankind kinder………
And maybe have more sense…..
It would be good to give much thought, before
you try to find words for something so lost,
for those long childhood afternoons you knew
that vanished so completely -and why?
We're still reminded-: sometimes by a rain,
but we can no longer say what it means;
life was never again so filled with meeting,
with reunion and with passing on
as back then, when nothing happened to us
except what happens to things and creatures:
we lived their world as something human,
and became filled to the brim with figures.
And became as lonely as a sheperd
and as overburdened by vast distances,
and summoned and stirred as from far away,
and slowly, like a long new thread,
introduced into that picture-sequence
where now having to go on bewilders us.
I
The bitterness. the misery, the wretchedness of childhood
Put me out of love with God.
I can't believe in God's goodness;
I can believe
In many avenging gods.
Most of all I believe
In gods of bitter dullness,
Cruel local gods
Who scared my childhood.
II
I've seen people put
A chrysalis in a match-box,
"To see," they told me, "what sort of moth would come."
But when it broke its shell
It slipped and stumbled and fell about its prison
And tried to climb to the light
For space to dry its wings.
That's how I was.
Somebody found my chrysalis
And shut it in a match-box.
My shrivelled wings were beaten,
Shed their colours in dusty scales
Before the box was opened
For the moth to fly.
III
I hate that town;
I hate the town I lived in when I was little;
I hate to think of it.
There wre always clouds, smoke, rain
In that dingly little valley.
It rained; it always rained.
I think I never saw the sun until I was nine --
And then it was too late;
Everything's too late after the first seven years.
The long street we lived in
Was duller than a drain
And nearly as dingy.
There were the big College
And the pseudo-Gothic town-hall.
There were the sordid provincial shops --
The grocer's, and the shops for women,
The shop where I bought transfers,
And the piano and gramaphone shop
Where I used to stand
Staring at the huge shiny pianos and at the pictures
Of a white dog looking into a gramaphone.
How dull and greasy and grey and sordid it was!
On wet days -- it was always wet --
I used to kneel on a chair
And look at it from the window.
The dirty yellow trams
Dragged noisily along
With a clatter of wheels and bells
And a humming of wires overhead.
They threw up the filthy rain-water from the hollow lines
And then the water ran back
Full of brownish foam bubbles.
There was nothing else to see --
It was all so dull --
Except a few grey legs under shiny black umbrellas
Running along the grey shiny pavements;
Sometimes there was a waggon
Whose horses made a strange loud hollow sound
With their hoofs
Through the silent rain.
And there was a grey museum
Full of dead birds and dead insects and dead animals
And a few relics of the Romans -- dead also.
There was a sea-front,
A long asphalt walk with a bleak road beside it,
Three piers, a row of houses,
And a salt dirty smell from the little harbour.
I was like a moth --
Like one of those grey Emperor moths
Which flutter through the vines at Capri.
And that damned little town was my match-box,
Against whose sides I beat and beat
Until my wings were torn and faded, and dingy
As that damned little town.
IV
At school it was just as dull as that dull High Street.
The front was dull;
The High Street and the other street were dull --
And there was a public park, I remember,
And that was damned dull, too,
With its beds of geraniums no one was allowed to pick,
And its clipped lawns you weren't allowed to walk on,
And the gold-fish pond you mustn't paddle in,
And the gate made out of a whale's jaw-bones,
And the swings, which were for "Board-School children,"
And its gravel paths.
And on Sundays they rang the bells,
From Baptist and Evangelical and Catholic churches.
They had a Salvation Army.
I was taken to a High Church;
The parson's name was Mowbray,
"Which is a good name but he thinks too much of it --"
That's what I heard people say.
I took a little black book
To that cold, grey, damp, smelling church,
And I had to sit on a hard bench,
Wriggle off it to kneel down when they sang psalms
And wriggle off it to kneel down when they prayed,
And then there was nothing to do
Except to play trains with the hymn-books.
There was nothing to see,
Nothing to do,
Nothing to play with,
Except that in an empty room upstairs
There was a large tin box
Containing reproductions of the Magna Charta,
Of the Declaration of Independence
And of a letter from Raleigh after the Armada.
There were also several packets of stamps,
Yellow and blue Guatemala parrots,
Blue stags and red baboons and birds from Sarawak,
Indians and Men-of-war
From the United States,
And the green and red portraits
Of King Francobello
Of Italy.
V
I don't believe in God.
I do believe in avenging gods
Who plague us for sins we never sinned
But who avenge us.
That's why I'll never have a child,
Never shut up a chrysalis in a match-box
For the moth to spoil and crush its brght colours,
Beating its wings against the dingy prison-wall.
I miss my old home
It had a broken mirror
I couldn't see my face
I miss my childhood
It had a broken memory
It was a lonely place
But it felt comforting
We have one childhood
Whether it's good or bad
We remember those days
and all the fun we had
But it could also be ugly
The way it was for me
I was picked on alot
They made fun of me
Now I'm getting older
But, I'm still a child
This world gets colder
For each and every child.
The younger years may fade but childhood remains within
Like a constant trace which can never be erased by time.
Always bound to a paradise that is evergreen
Where all poets never lose any enchanting rhyme.
I remember the time when the glow calls attention
As the nightingale and robin join in one chorus,
The sea reflects the glory of the blue horizon
And the harmony combines with no one to refuse.
The energy I spent in games has never been lost.
Everything I did rewinds unto me like a dream.
I have gained experiences that I can proudly boast,
For they are treasures to keep when comes the moonlight gleam.
O my friends! I can never forget those faithful years,
The times we wished upon the stars as we share our joys!
I cherish the times we group to dry each other’s tears
And satisfy the mute and silent with friendly voice.
Rest assured, all these things I can never forget,
For they are simple precious gems unworthy of trade.
Childhood sings with me in a legendary duet
Like the old times when history is perfectly made.
Thanks to Him who taught me to live and gave what I need.
Now I bear the fruits of summer from being a seed!
(Here's a version with Mr. Luke Easter)
Childhood Remains Within
Where are he younger years and how dare they not remain?
Fleeting, as the flowerbed seems like it went before it came,
Usually a constant traced that can never be erased by time,
Until black/brown turns to gray, clouds covering up my mind.
The juvenile days of marshmallow roasts abandon the stream,
From a paradise bound to be a forest forever no longer green,
Where poets remain like Anacondas, silent enchanting rhyme,
Yet everything must yield to Mother Nature, even Father Time,
As nightingale and robin join in one chorus to usher the moon,
Ocean’s reflect the glory of a blue horizon the sun is too soon,
Their harmony combines where no other species might refuse,
If it was downtown Chicago you would swear it was the blues.
The energy I spent in games never won has never been lost,
Everything I did rewinds with me like a dream there is a cost,
Gained experiences from childhood that I can proudly boast,
At a midnight sandbox I repelled Casper the Friendly Ghost.
Who ever heard of Witch’s and Goblins not making you fear?
O my friends! I’ll never forget those faithful childhood years,
One night we wished upon the stars in the middle of a storm,
Because good friends huddle together & everyone was warm.
Rest assured that all of these friendly memories I shall forget,
They are special precious gems unworthy of trading and yet,
For one more childhood hoop and holler in a legendary duet,
Would I relinquish my wealth for old times, hell yeah you bet.
Thanks to Him who taught me to live and giving what I need,
Now I shall plant the summer fruits for my coming little seed,
To satisfy vicariously from daddy’s offspring one day I’ll see,
Spirit joy filled laughter my parents experienced through me.
Is that not how growth begins and expands within the earth?
Nothing begets anything unless a seed of life is planted first,
Only what is planted will regenerate and determine it’s worth,
Silent darkness of the underground or warmth of the hearth?
Seasons oh seasons, dragging on forever, fall, winter, spring,
As ushering in the summer seemed like your only good thing,
Will always remember my first little league homerun I was 10,
No matter how many years flee, “Childhood Remains Within.”
memories of childhood...
such a wonderful, hazy, warm feeling,
special memories, filled with love
come welling up, and send my senses reeling,
aromatic fragrance, wafting up from the kitchen,
aroma of my mothers cooking,
father getting ready for work,
how handome he is looking,
I'm ready for school., hair plaited,
clutch my little, sisters hand tightly
bags perched securely on our backs
and off we go, skipping lightly,
lessons and studies, dilligently done,
supervised by dad, but always fun,
carefree, happy times were those
one could do, what one chose....
the familiar house, and the close kinship
so many friends, and closely knit friendship,
no cares, no worries, they were not for us,
only love and protection, and a special fuss,
what wonderful years I can never forget
a happy childhood is an important asset
and now we are grown........
only memories are left....
when we are feeling down, or nostalgic,
just go back to those magical years...
relive those times, that sparkling innocence,
that time, devoid of from doubt and fears
oh childhood...so quickly did you fly
your very memory makes us sigh...
and remember.and smile, and feel content
for the Godgiven wonderful years, so well spent...
oh childhood, I hope I have been a good mother,
what I learnt from you, I hope I have given another,
a treasure for my children, to recall, and  to cherish
a treasure to revel in and sustain, when we perish.
CHIPS OFF THE OLD BLOKE
This face(our face)    is
passed amongst us three...brothers.
Each of us wearing
it as our own. Only Dad
owning the original.
********
FIRST LOVE
My name scrawled in chalk
coloured with the confines
of a big red heart.
Your name now...entwined with mine.
Sunlight glints off our glasses.
********
AND THE FIRST SHALL BE LAST
Winning...the sack race!
Me out on my own...winning
by a smile...easy!
Take pity on poor struggling
No.2...ahhh...let him win!
********
L’ÉTRANGER
He re, everything is
foreign...strange...unknown to him
lost now as he...is
in the streets of his childhood.
Everything...as it was...no more.
Written all over my face.
********
DÓNALL’S TRAVELS
Here, his big bedroom
shrunk to tiny box room.
His lake...a mere pond.
He now a giant among things
in the lost land of his childhood.
How advanced they are, these children of the future,
Like small adults, within their tiny frames,
They grow up in a fast 'speed driven' culture,
Where 'learning pressures' change their kind of games,
Where is their childhood, in all this hurly burly,
Where is their pure untainted view of things,
Why do they have to grow so old, so early,
And lose the joy that only childhood brings.
Our childhood was filled with thoughts of joy and gladness,
We lived our lives, oblivious to the world
And all the hardships, wars, the grief and sadness,
We stood, waiting for our lives to be unfurled.
We had time to grow, and gain an understanding,
Of each new phase, each change along the way,
As we grew slowly, our senses all expanding,
So with clarity, we slowly changed our play.
We had a framework on which to build and flourish,
Slow and steady, this was no rushed affair,
Taking each step, then step by step to nourish,
Our childhood, so finally adulthood we would share.
What will become, of these 'New Century' learners,
I doubt if they, a dreamy childhood see,
Will they then tell to all those bright discerners
Of their own, how they remembered their childhood to be.
I used to be
in the Girl Guides
but I was thrown out
when it was found out
...I was a boy!
I mean...why?
I had the girls tied up
in knots of laugter
& always won the contest to see
who could pee the furtherest!
Underground, down in the dugout
when during the second world war
a siren wailed a last warning
before the darkest pall... plunging;
insecurity;  screaming soon commenced
higher;  higher it seemed to climb
human fear greeting the silence.
As hunger gnawed at his belly
a youngster decided to run
away up out of the shelter
in search of action and fun.
Wow!  It was just so exciting
watching war planes in the night sky
as the enemy passed over
left behind, their lethal bye-bye's.
Far better than the cinema!
For these were Hitler's men!  Pow! Pow!
And were really up above... BOOM!
With searchlights;  chaos and mayhem.
He could see Britain was fighting
and his Dad was a soldier too
but Mum was down in the dugout...
from here;  such a fantastic view!
When they got back he'd be for it!
Oh but couldn't care less right now
when the bombing left off in a
moment... get up, out on patrol.
As hunger gnawed at his belly
recalling the meal from last night;
that cat was really quite tasty
but what could they all eat tonight?
Taking off into the distance
with nothing to wear on his feet;
perhaps the house was still upright
people started to pass on the street.
As hunger gnawed at his belly
slowly turning to where he thought:
Was it here our home had been standing?
Must tell Mum we've been bombed out!
I thought I was prepared.
People asked
''Are you excited? ''
I always answered
''Heck yes I am! ''
My ''baby-girl''
heading off to college
to become a police officer
filled me with more pride than I ever imagined.
But-
also never imagined...
the emptiness left
in her absence.
Felt immediately.
After the truckload of
''college essentials''
were carried to her tiny dorm room
we said our goodbyes
and it hit me...
her childhood is over!
There is no more time
to schedule those
''One day we'll take the kids there...''trips.
No more
''When we get the money we'll do this...''.
Broken promises
flooded my ears.
All I heard was my own voice
reassuring her that ''One day we'll....''.
The tears have dried over the past 3 weeks.
But the lesson learned
will stay forever.
I will not mourn
the death of a childhood,
I will celebrate the life
of a beautiful young woman.
Outside the house an ash-tree hung its terrible whips,
And at night when the wind arose, the lash of the tree
Shrieked and slashed the wind, as a ship’s
Weird rigging in a storm shrieks hideously.
Within the house two voices arose in anger, a slender lash
Whistling delirious rage, and the dreadful sound
Of a thick lash booming and bruising, until it drowned
The other voice in a silence of blood, ’neath the noise of the ash.
'lie still, and be forevermore a child'  Christopher Dowson
Your remote beauty is impressive
but not lovely.
I fear, the sudden aloof awareness
of these barren heights to which
no longer child you foolishly aspire -
and ruthlessly descend -
self banished from your elfin realm;
In which you dwelt and frolicked.
How we loved them.
In an otherwise grey world
These blinkered, patient creatures
Gave us such delight as
Massive, sinewy strong, they pulled the carts
Piled high with metal parts
Over the cobbled streets
To the docks and back.
Gentle giants, with gleaming coats
Friendly, allowing us to stroke them and call their names.
These huge horses trudging along
Proud, strong workers.
Once each year-the annual fair-
They came in procession,
Bedecked in leather, silver and brass.
Garlands and roses entwined in their hair.
Like the war-horses of old
They stood stately and proud
Caparaisoned in all their finery,
Heads high, knightly in bearing,
Magnificent to behold.
One day they were gone.
The shipyards closed-
Orders gone to Japan.
They had become 'economically unviable',
An anachronism in our brave new post-war world.
But we children missed them;
They'd been our friends.
And when our eyes met theirs
We had understood each other.
Up on the hill
In the posh areas
Where the Victorian villas
Were set back from tree lined roads,
The gas lamps in the streets were
Wrought iron, carved and elegant.
The lampleerie would open them
And light each lamp
One by one.
As each glowed with a warm soft light
They seemed like necklaces;
Shining jewels beading
Their way around the night.
Down near the docks
The tenements were dark and dank.
Their closes shadowed
With children's ghostly fears.
But every night at twilight
Our leerie came down from the hill.
With his long pole
He stretched up, turned on the taps.
Spluttering flames first blue
Then coming to brilliant life,
Spreading wide arcs of welcoming light.
And all our  bogeymen took flight.
An open space, pitted with ditches,
Jagged places, filled with debris.
We were warned not to play there
But what child could resist it?
There we built palaces
From which princesses were rescued;
Plains where cowboys fought indians.
Among the ruins we played hide and seek,
Cops and robbers, kick the can,
And other childhood  games.
In summer we climbed mountains,
Explored new continents,
Hacked our way through jungles.
In winter we sledged on icy slopes,
Had vicious snowball battles.
And when it rained we made paper boats
That sailed a brief moment,
Then sank in muddy puddles.
Happy childhood memories the best memories of all
And my younger years in Millstreet I will always recall
On evenings in Summer up to the mid Fall
In the Townpark at the West End we played gaelic football
My friends of my youth where might they be today
Like me have the years left them balder and gray
Though some of them in the home Parish did stay
In life one might say we just went our own way
Since those days so many years have come and gone
And time does not wait it just ticks on and on
Many of the friends of my youth I may not see again
Though good memories of them with me does remain
And in fancy I chase the football up and down
With my happy young friends in the Park of the Town.
Downward through the evening twilight,
In the days that are forgotten,
In the unremembered ages,
From the full moon fell Nokomis,
Fell the beautiful Nokomis,
She a wife, but not a mother.
She was sporting with her women,
Swinging in a swing of grape-vines,
When her rival the rejected,
Full of jealousy and hatred,
Cut the leafy swing asunder,
Cut in twain the twisted grape-vines,
And Nokomis fell affrighted
Downward through the evening twilight,
On the Muskoday, the meadow,
On the prairie full of blossoms.
"See! a star falls!" said the people;
"From the sky a star is falling!"
There among the ferns and mosses,
There among the prairie lilies,
On the Muskoday, the meadow,
In the moonlight and the starlight,
Fair Nokomis bore a daughter.
And she called her name Wenonah,
As the first-born of her daughters.
And the daughter of Nokomis
Grew up like the prairie lilies,
Grew a tall and slender maiden,
With the beauty of the moonlight,
With the beauty of the starlight.
And Nokomis warned her often,
Saying oft, and oft repeating,
"Oh, beware of Mudjekeewis,
Of the West-Wind, Mudjekeewis;
Listen not to what he tells you;
Lie not down upon the meadow,
Stoop not down among the lilies,
Lest the West-Wind come and harm you!"
But she heeded not the warning,
Heeded not those words of wisdom,
And the West-Wind came at evening,
Walking lightly o'er the prairie,
Whispering to the leaves and blossoms,
Bending low the flowers and grasses,
Found the beautiful Wenonah,
Lying there among the lilies,
Wooed her with his words of sweetness,
Wooed her with his soft caresses,
Till she bore a son in sorrow,
Bore a son of love and sorrow.
Thus was born my Hiawatha,
Thus was born the child of wonder;
But the daughter of Nokomis,
Hiawatha's gentle mother,
In her anguish died deserted
By the West-Wind, false and faithless,
By the heartless Mudjekeewis.
For her daughter long and loudly
Wailed and wept the sad Nokomis;
"Oh that I were dead!" she murmured,
"Oh that I were dead, as thou art!
No more work, and no more weeping,
Wahonowin! Wahonowin!"
By the shores of Gitche Gumee,
By the shining Big-Sea-Water,
Stood the wigwam of Nokomis,
Daughter of the Moon, Nokomis.
Dark behind it rose the forest,
Rose the black and gloomy pine-trees,
Rose the firs with cones upon them;
Bright before it beat the water,
Beat the clear and sunny water,
Beat the shining Big-Sea-Water.
There the wrinkled old Nokomis
Nursed the little Hiawatha,
Rocked him in his linden cradle,
Bedded soft in moss and rushes,
Safely bound with reindeer sinews;
Stilled his fretful wail by saying,
"Hush! the Naked Bear will hear thee!"
Lulled him into slumber, singing,
"Ewa-yea! my little owlet!
Who is this, that lights the wigwam?
With his great eyes lights the wigwam?
Ewa-yea! my little owlet!"
Many things Nokomis taught him
Of the stars that shine in heaven;
Showed him Ishkoodah, the comet,
Ishkoodah, with fiery tresses;
Showed the Death-Dance of the spirits,
Warriors with their plumes and war-clubs,
Flaring far away to northward
In the frosty nights of Winter;
Showed the broad white road in heaven,
Pathway of the ghosts, the shadows,
Running straight across the heavens,
Crowded with the ghosts, the shadows.
At the door on summer evenings
Sat the little Hiawatha;
Heard the whispering of the pine-trees,
Heard the lapping of the waters,
Sounds of music, words of wonder;
'Minne-wawa!" said the Pine-trees,
Mudway-aushka!" said the water.
Saw the fire-fly, Wah-wah-taysee,
Flitting through the dusk of evening,
With the twinkle of its candle
Lighting up the brakes and bushes,
And he sang the song of children,
Sang the song Nokomis taught him:
"Wah-wah-taysee, little fire-fly,
Little, flitting, white-fire insect,
Little, dancing, white-fire creature,
Light me with your little candle,
Ere upon my bed I lay me,
Ere in sleep I close my eyelids!"
Saw the moon rise from the water
Rippling, rounding from the water,
Saw the flecks and shadows on it,
Whispered, "What is that, Nokomis?"
And the good Nokomis answered:
"Once a warrior, very angry,
Seized his grandmother, and threw her
Up into the sky at midnight;
Right against the moon he threw her;
'T is her body that you see there."
Saw the rainbow in the heaven,
In the eastern sky, the rainbow,
Whispered, "What is that, Nokomis?"
And the good Nokomis answered:
"'T is the heaven of flowers you see there;
All the wild-flowers of the forest,
All the lilies of the prairie,
When on earth they fade and perish,
Blossom in that heaven above us."
When he heard the owls at midnight,
Hooting, laughing in the forest,
'What is that?" he cried in terror,
"What is that," he said, "Nokomis?"
And the good Nokomis answered:
"That is but the owl and owlet,
Talking in their native language,
Talking, scolding at each other."
Then the little Hiawatha
Learned of every bird its language,
Learned their names and all their secrets,
How they built their nests in Summer,
Where they hid themselves in Winter,
Talked with them whene'er he met them,
Called them "Hiawatha's Chickens."
Of all beasts he learned the language,
Learned their names and all their secrets,
How the beavers built their lodges,
Where the squirrels hid their acorns,
How the reindeer ran so swiftly,
Why the rabbit was so timid,
Talked with them whene'er he met them,
Called them "Hiawatha's Brothers."
Then Iagoo, the great boaster,
He the marvellous story-teller,
He the traveller and the talker,
He the friend of old Nokomis,
Made a bow for Hiawatha;
From a branch of ash he made it,
From an oak-bough made the arrows,
Tipped with flint, and winged with feathers,
And the cord he made of deer-skin.
Then he said to Hiawatha:
"Go, my son, into the forest,
Where the red deer herd together,
Kill for us a famous roebuck,
Kill for us a deer with antlers!"
Forth into the forest straightway
All alone walked Hiawatha
Proudly, with his bow and arrows;
And the birds sang round him, o'er him,
"Do not shoot us, Hiawatha!"
Sang the robin, the Opechee,
Sang the bluebird, the Owaissa,
"Do not shoot us, Hiawatha!"
Up the oak-tree, close beside him,
Sprang the squirrel, Adjidaumo,
In and out among the branches,
Coughed and chattered from the oak-tree,
Laughed, and said between his laughing,
"Do not shoot me, Hiawatha!"
And the rabbit from his pathway
Leaped aside, and at a distance
Sat erect upon his haunches,
Half in fear and half in frolic,
Saying to the little hunter,
"Do not shoot me, Hiawatha!"
But he heeded not, nor heard them,
For his thoughts were with the red deer;
On their tracks his eyes were fastened,
Leading downward to the river,
To the ford across the river,
And as one in slumber walked he.
Hidden in the alder-bushes,
There he waited till the deer came,
Till he saw two antlers lifted,
Saw two eyes look from the thicket,
Saw two nostrils point to windward,
And a deer came down the pathway,
Flecked with leafy light and shadow.
And his heart within him fluttered,
Trembled like the leaves above him,
Like the birch-leaf palpitated,
As the deer came down the pathway.
Then, upon one knee uprising,
Hiawatha aimed an arrow;
Scarce a twig moved with his motion,
Scarce a leaf was stirred or rustled,
But the wary roebuck started,
Stamped with all his hoofs together,
Listened with one foot uplifted,
Leaped as if to meet the arrow;
Ah! the singing, fatal arrow,
Like a wasp it buzzed and stung him!
Dead he lay there in the forest,
By the ford across the river;
Beat his timid heart no longer,
But the heart of Hiawatha
Throbbed and shouted and exulted,
As he bore the red deer homeward,
And Iagoo and Nokomis
Hailed his coming with applauses.
From the red deer's hide Nokomis
Made a cloak for Hiawatha,
From the red deer's flesh Nokomis
Made a banquet to his honor.
All the village came and feasted,
All the guests praised Hiawatha,
Called him Strong-Heart, Soan-ge-taha!
Called him Loon-Heart, Mahn-go-taysee!
I am a lot wiser now than in my childhood
Because in my childhood I always wanted my way
And sometimes in my childhood I used to get my way
I look through my childhood as if I were there,
but yet remain in this grown up body, which in life is not fair,
I have forgotten the good times in my past,
I can't believe that my childhood moved on very fast,
I thought it would last, and last forever,
but I was wrong, it did not last, it never.
but all happens for the best,
so that I could grow up to be a man and experience life
which comes in han 'd'.
I look through my childhood.
things don't die or remain damaged
but return: stumps grow back hands,
a head reconnects to a neck,
a whole corpse rises blushing and newly elastic.
Later this vision is not True:
the grandmother remains dead
not hibernating in a wolf's belly.
Or the blue parakeet does not return
from the little grave in the fern garden
though one may wake in the morning
thinking mother's call is the bird.
Or maybe the bird is with grandmother
inside light. Or grandmother was the bird
and is now the dog
gnawing on the chair leg.
Where do the gone things go
when the child is old enough
to walk herself to school,
her playmates already
pumping so high the swing hiccups?
I remember my childhood
Whenever I am in the mood
I remember my childhood
With the bad and the good
I remember my childhood
With the variety of available junk food
Funny, the old want to be young
While kids endeavour to be old and strong
Girls wanted to grow up fast as women
Boys wanted to grow up fast as men
Before they could walk right or learn
Those were good times
With very little crime
We had fun with little a dime
How is that for a rhyme?
Mum would call us for biscuits and cakes
While we played games and learnt from mistakes
We all went anxiously to school
To see what best pranks any of us could pull
I remember my childhood
I was always polite and not rude
I remember my childhood
If I could then you should
We as kids all had dreams
Which we shared as a team
We all loved to rock but hated homework
I mean what was the point of so much paperwork
And what is really bizarre
Is that I was always after
The bedtime stories from Mama and Papa
I also enjoyed the view of the nightly stars from afar
Same way I loved presents at Christmas and Easter
Mama always used to say
A gift no matter how little will lift anyone's spirit any day
I remember my childhood
And the adventures in the woods
I remember my childhood
With all the includes and excludes
I remember my childhood
And till today there are still things I've never understood
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
I find myself praying to Jesus
When once again
I’m lost in an unsympathetic city
Feeling lovelorn and alone
Or utterly disgusted with myself
For some abandonment or abuse
Of a fragile and beautiful friend.
Certain days are drunk in the daylight,
Certain attitudes are vile and disgraceful,
Certain failures in matters of faithfulness
Destroy the soul.
I’m walking by a park where I played
When I had an innocent heart.
Drifting back to a happier time,
I’ve got tears in both my eyes
And I’m praying to the Jesus of my childhood
Ice-cold fear has slowly decreased
As my bones have grown, my height increased.
Though I shiver in snow of dreams, I shall never
Freeze again in a noonday terror.
I shall never break, my sinews crumble
As God-the-headmaster's fingers fumble
At the other side of unopening doors
Which I watch for a hundred thousand years.
I shall never feel my thin blood leak
While darkness stretches a paw to strike
Or Nothing beats an approaching drum
Behind my back in a silent room.
I shall never, alone, meet the end of my world
At the bend of a path, the turn of a wall:
Never, or once more only, and
That will be once and an end of end.
L'enfant chantait; la mère au lit, exténuée,
Agonisait, beau front dans l'ombre se penchant ;
La mort au-dessus d'elle errait dans la nuée ;
Et j'écoutais ce râle, et j'entendais ce chant.
L'enfant avait cinq ans, et près de la fenêtre
Ses rires et ses jeux faisaient un charmant bruit ;
Et la mère, à côté de ce pauvre doux être
Qui chantait tout le jour, toussait toute la nuit.
La mère alla dormir sous les dalles du cloître ;
Et le petit enfant se remit à chanter...
La douleur est un fruit ; Dieu ne le fait pas croître
Sur la branche trop faible encor pour le porter.
Childhood
The Child was singing, and the Mother lay
Stretched on the bed which pain and anguish throng,
Death's cloud fast closing on her parting day:
I heard her laboring breath, I heard the song.
The Child its gambols by the lattice plied;
Its sport, its laughter, sounded glad and bright;
And the poor Mother by her darling's side,
Who sang all day, coughed through the painful night.
The Mother sleeps the cloister's stones below;
The Child sings, heedless of its orphan state:
Grief is a fruit that God forbids to grow
On boughs too feeble to support its weight.
Childhood Is
when the world to come
is an adventure to be met
Childhood Is
running and hiding
peeking around blind corners
hoping you have been followed
Childhood Is
ducking and diving
dreaming of being in the best
football team in the world
and scoring the winning goal
in the Cup FInal
Childhood Is
being the perfect person
(or not being caught out
when you're not being
the perfect person)
Childhood Is
a mass of contradictions
you don't want to unravel
Childhood Is
a nice cosy bed,
clean sheets
and Mummy's kisses
We were little girls
Living next door to one another
I was an only child
She had three younger brothers
We became close friends
We pedaled together on a bike ride
We liked singing with songs on the radio
We did our homework side by side
Skillfully we climbed an old fruit tree
And sat on branches with legs dangling
We’d snatch apples and eat them green…
Our throats were gripped by tart strangling
We were actresses without a written script
What a story our young minds could weave…
When our imaginations convincingly took over
the roles we played truly made us believe
Many years have passed since we kept company
We both grew older and went our separate ways
Only today... I thought back to that carefree time
I wonder now, if she ever thinks of those days
(6/29/07)
my childhood garden
my childhood garden
lush and green
it was so happy it made me scream
my joy and hopes
and all my mopes
my childhood garden
my childhood garden
with the ups and downs
when i jumped i could not touch the ground
with my purle ponys
it made it homey
my childhood garden
my childhood garden
flying high
with the little lies
the grass fine
up in the sky my kite
my childhood garden
my childhood garden
now in the past
i now know that it can never last
now as i get taller
it was differnt when i was smaller
my childhood garden
I
My childhood's home I see again,
And sadden with the view;
And still, as memory crowds my brain,
There's pleasure in it too.
O Memory! thou midway world
'Twixt earth and paradise,
Where things decayed and loved ones lost
In dreamy shadows rise,
And, freed from all that's earthly vile,
Seem hallowed, pure, and bright,
Like scenes in some enchanted isle
All bathed in liquid light.
As dusky mountains please the eye
When twilight chases day;
As bugle-tones that, passing by,
In distance die away;
As leaving some grand waterfall,
We, lingering, list its roar--
So memory will hallow all
We've known, but know no more.
Near twenty years have passed away
Since here I bid farewell
To woods and fields, and scenes of play,
And playmates loved so well.
Where many were, but few remain
Of old familiar things;
But seeing them, to mind again
The lost and absent brings.
The friends I left that parting day,
How changed, as time has sped!
Young childhood grown, strong manhood gray,
And half of all are dead.
I hear the loved survivors tell
How nought from death could save,
Till every sound appears a knell,
And every spot a grave.
I range the fields with pensive tread,
And pace the hollow rooms,
And feel (companion of the dead)
I'm living in the tombs.
II
But here's an object more of dread
Than ought the grave contains--
A human form with reason fled,
While wretched life remains.
Poor Matthew! Once of genius bright,
A fortune-favored child--
Now locked for aye, in mental night,
A haggard mad-man wild.
Poor Matthew! I have ne'er forgot,
When first, with maddened will,
Yourself you maimed, your father fought,
And mother strove to kill;
When terror spread, and neighbors ran,
Your dange'rous strength to bind;
And soon, a howling crazy man
Your limbs were fast confined.
How then you strove and shrieked aloud,
Your bones and sinews bared;
And fiendish on the gazing crowd,
With burning eye-balls glared--
And begged, and swore, and wept and prayed
With maniac laught[ter?] joined--
How fearful were those signs displayed
By pangs that killed thy mind!
And when at length, tho' drear and long,
Time smoothed thy fiercer woes,
How plaintively thy mournful song
Upon the still night rose.
I've heard it oft, as if I dreamed,
Far distant, sweet, and lone--
The funeral dirge, it ever seemed
Of reason dead and gone.
To drink it's strains, I've stole away,
All stealthily and still,
Ere yet the rising God of day
Had streaked the Eastern hill.
Air held his breath; trees, with the spell,
Seemed sorrowing angels round,
Whose swelling tears in dew-drops fell
Upon the listening ground.
But this is past; and nought remains,
That raised thee o'er the brute.
Thy piercing shrieks, and soothing strains,
Are like, forever mute.
Now fare thee well--more thou the cause,
Than subject now of woe.
All mental pangs, by time's kind laws,
Hast lost the power to know.
O death! Thou awe-inspiring prince,
That keepst the world in fear;
Why dost thos tear more blest ones hence,
And leave him ling'ring here?
Childhood memories are often steeped in mystery.
The older we get the memories exclude
sometimes things we might find painful as we journeyed on.
I tried to visualise my childhood as a happy one,
though I know in my heart it was a very much lonely one.
Not only was I shy, but I never mixed very well.
I spent so much of my time nearly always on my own.
The only exciting time I can remember
was one summer I spent with friends of my father
whom I referred to as Aunt Elsie and Uncle Jim.
For the two months I spent with them
in a small town called Allison
hold some of the best memories of my childhood.
It was away from my parents
and into someone’s house that cared.
I went fishing every day
in the stream at the end of the garden,
made many friends
and had one of the most enjoyable times
of my childhood
that will always live within me.
5-6 June 2008
My mother tells me about it,
And I also remember a bit,
The time when I was too innocent,
The time which was superb and excellent.
I used to play with my toys,
And my life filled with happiness and joy,
Life was then exciting and alluring,
But now, it is becoming boring,
I cant't forget those days of mine,
In darkness of my life, like the jewels, they all shine,
By chance, due to good deeds of mine,
If God will ask me for my wish at any time,
I will wish to become smart and good,
But my first preference will be my Childhood.
my childhood was the time when i was innocent
when the world seemed to be fair
when my universe was around my toys
my childhood was the time when 9i lived in dreams
when everyone was selfless
when everyone appeared to be a friend
my childhood was the time when my life was full of colours
when sorrows never knocked my door
when smile was gift presented to everyone
my childhood was the time when love was pure
when there were no obligations
when tenderness prevailed
my childhood was the time which is long gone
tears flow from my eyes when i go back in my childhood
my childhood will never come back but
the child in me will never go
My childhood was fun,
tough and exciting.
My childhood was one
where there wasn't much fighting.
This was my childhood.
My childhood was filled
with family and friends.
My childhood was filled
with love that tied up loose ends.
This was my childhood.
My childhood came
with a grandmother that cared.
When she left me
I remembered all the times we shared.
This was my childhood.
My childhood was filled
with classwork and homework.
My childhood was filled
with parents who hated work.
This was my childhood.
My childhood was filled
with fun in the hood,
and food that tasted like Campbell's,
'Umm Umm Good! '
This was my childhood.
My childhood was filled
with tricycles and bicycles.
My childhood was filled
with popsicles and Dill pickles.
This was my childhood.
My childhood was filled
with lots of happy holidays.
Holidays that aren't
just the same nowadays.
This was my childhood.
Now my childhood
has become nothing but memories,
But all the good times
will live on within me.
This was my childhood.
Homework, said my teacher,
Is to write a poem,
About your fondest
Childhood memory
Immediately, I began to shake
And within minutes
A cold sweat had
Come over me
I had dreaded,
Absolutely dreaded,
This day,
This moment in time.
I thought perhaps
I might find an excuse
Such as dogs dying
Or broken water pipes
I wondered
If I dropped the course
Would I get
A rebate?
And then
It dawned on me
The perfect line...
I'm afraid
I've had amnesia
All these years.
soil soil and soil, , playing in the soil,
No fear of disease, no fear of toil.
What a wonderful days that was,
i always remember my childhood, my innocent childhood..
Only friend no foes,
no thinking of what dont and what does.
No fear of future, no thinking of present,
i always remember my childhood, my innocent childhood..
What was the past, leave it, it surpassed,
what has to happen, lets face when it comes.
Future planning! What is this?
i always remember my childhood, my innocent childhood..
Play was religion and play was God,
only thing which gave fear, was my fathers rod.
Crying crying crying a lot, then said love you pappa,
i always remember my childhood, my innocent childhood..
The Child is father of the Man;
And I could wish my days to be
Bound each to each by natural piety.
I
There was a time when meadow, grove, and stream,
The earth, and every common sight,
To me did seem
Apparelled in celestial light,
The glory and the freshness of a dream.
It is not now as it hath been of yore; -
Turn wheresoe'er I may,
By night or day,
The things which I have seen I now can see no more.
II
The Rainbow comes and goes,
And lovely is the Rose,
The Moon doth with delight
Look round her when the heavens are bare;
Waters on a starry night
Are beautiful and fair;
The sunshine is a glorious birth;
But yet I know, where'er I go,
That there hath past away a glory from the earth.
III
Now, while the birds thus sing a joyous song,
And while the young lambs bound
As to the tabor's sound,
To me alone there came a thought of grief:
A timely utterance gave that thought relief,
And I again am strong:
The cataracts blow their trumpets from the steep;
No more shall grief of mine the season wrong;
I hear the Echoes through the mountains throng,
The Winds come to me from the fields of sleep,
And all the earth is gay;
Land and sea
Give themselves up to jollity,
And with the heart of May
Doth every Beast keep holiday; -
Thou Child of Joy,
Shout round me, let me hear thy shouts, thou happy Shepherd-boy!
IV
Ye blesse`d Creatures, I have heard the call
Ye to each other make; I see
The heavens laugh with you in your jubilee;
My heart is at your festival,
My head hath its coronal,
The fulness of your bliss, I feel- I feel it all.
Oh evil day! if I were sullen
While the Earth herself is adorning,
This sweet May-morning,
And the Children are culling
On every side,
In a thousand valleys far and wide,
Fresh flowers; while the sun shines warm,
And the Babe leaps up on his Mother's arm:-
I hear, I hear, with joy I hear!
- But there's a Tree, of many, one,
A single Field which I have looked upon,
Both of them speak of something that is gone:
The Pansy at my feet
Doth the same tale repeat:
Whither is fled the visionary gleam?
Where is it now, the glory and the dream?
V
Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting:
The Soul that rises with us, our life's Star,
Hath had elsewhere its setting,
And cometh from afar:
Not in entire forgetfulness,
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory do we come
From God, who is our home:
Heaven lies about us in our infancy!
Shades of the prison-house begin to close
Upon the growing Boy,
But He beholds the light, and whence it flows,
He sees it in his joy;
The Youth, who daily farther from the east
Must travel, still is Nature's Priest,
And by the vision splendid
Is on his way attended;
At length the Man perceives it die away,
And fade into the light of common day.
VI
Earth fills her lap with pleasures of her own;
Yearnings she hath in her own natural kind,
And, even with something of a Mother's mind,
And no unworthy aim,
The homely Nurse doth all she can
To make her Foster-child, her Inmate Man,
Forget the glories he hath known,
And that imperial palace whence he came.
VII
Behold the Child among his new-born blisses,
A six years' Darling of a pigmy size!
See, where 'mid work of his own hand he lies,
Fretted by sallies of his mother's kisses,
With light upon him from his father's eyes!
See, at his feet, some little plan or chart,
Some fragment from his dream of human life,
Shaped by himself with newly-learned art;
A wedding or a festival,
A mourning or a funeral;
And this hath now his heart,
And unto this he frames his song:
Then will he fit his tongue
To dialogues of business, love, or strife;
But it will not be long
Ere this be thrown aside,
And with new joy and pride
The little Actor cons another part;
Filling from time to time his 'humorous stage'
With all the Persons, down to palsied Age,
That Life brings with her in her equipage;
As if his whole vocation
Were endless imitation.
VIII
Thou, whose exterior semblance doth belie
Thy Soul's immensity;
Thou best Philosopher, who yet dost keep
Thy heritage, thou Eye among the blind,
That, deaf and silent, read'st the eternal deep,
Haunted for ever by the eternal mind,-
Might Prophet! Seer blest!
On whom those truths do rest,
Which we are toiling all our lives to find,
In darkness lost, the darkness of the grave;
Thou, over whom thy Immortality
Broods like the Day, a Master o'er a Slave,
A Presence which is not to be put by;
[To whom the grave
Is but a lonely bed without the sense or sight
Of day or the warm light,
A place of thought where we in waiting lie; ]
Thou little Child, yet glorious in the might
Of heaven-born freedom on thy being's height,
Why with such earnest pains dost thou provoke
The years to bring the inevitable yoke,
Thus blindly with thy blessedness at strife?
Full soon thy Soul shall have her earthly freight,
And custom lie upon thee with a weight,
Heavy as frost, and deep almost as life!
IX
O joy! that in our embers
Is something that doth live,
That nature yet remembers
What was so fugitive!
The thought of our past years in me doth breed
Perpetual benediction: not indeed
For that which is most worthy to be blest;
Delight and liberty, the simple creed
Of Childhood, whether busy or at rest,
With new-fledged hope still fluttering in his breast:-
Not for these I raise
The song of thanks and praise;
But for those obstinate questionings
Of sense and outward things,
Fallings from us, vanishings;
Blank misgivings of a Creature
Moving about in worlds not realised,
High instincts before which our mortal Nature
Did tremble like a guilty Thing surprised:
But for those first affections,
Those shadowy recollections,
Which, be they what they may,
Are yet the fountain-light of all our day,
Are yet a master-light of all our seeing;
Uphold us, cherish, and have power to make
Our noisy years seem moments in the being
Of the eternal Silence: truths that wake,
To perish never;
Which neither listlessness, nor mad endeavor,
Nor Man nor Boy,
Nor all that is at enmity with joy,
Can utterly abolish or destroy!
Hence in a season of calm weather
Though inland far we be,
Our Souls have sight of that immortal sea
Which brought us hither,
Can in a moment travel thither,
And see the Children sport upon the shore,
And hear the mighty waters rolling evermore.
X
Then sing, ye Birds, sing, sing a joyous song!
And yet the young Lambs bound
As to the tabor's sound!
We in thought will join your throng,
Ye that pipe and ye that play,
Ye that through your hearts to-day
Feel the gladness of the May!
What though the radiance which was once so bright
Be now for ever taken from my sight,
Though nothing can bring back the hour
Of splendour in the grass, of glory in the flower;
We will grieve not, rather find
Strength in what remains behind;
In the primal sympathy
Which having been must ever be;
In the soothing thoughts that spring
Out of human suffering;
In the faith that looks through death,
In years that bring the philosophic mind.
XI
And O, ye Fountains, Meadows, Hills, and Groves,
Forebode not any severing of our loves!
Yet in my heart of hearts I feel your might;
I only have relinquished one delight
To live beneath your more habitual sway.
I love the Brooks which down their channels fret,
Even more than when I tripped lightly as they;
The innocent brightness of a new-born Day
Is lovely yet;
The Clouds that gather round the setting sun
Do take a sober colouring from an eye
That hath kept watch o'er man's mortality;
Another race hath been, and other palms are won.
Thanks to the human heart by which we live,
Thanks to its tenderness, its joys, and fears,
To me the meanest flower that blows can give
Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears.
[comp. 1802-1804(?): publ. 1807]
We shall not ever meet them bearded in heaven
Nor sunning themselves among the bald of hell;
If anywhere, in the deserted schoolyard at twilight,
forming a ring, perhaps, or joining hands
In games whose very names we have forgotten.
Come memory, let us seek them there in the shadows.
Elbowing our way, we run.
Someone is being beaten up in the market.
You wouldn’t want to miss it!
We pick up speed, racing to the uproar,
scooping up water in our felt boots
and forgetting to wipe our sniffles.
And stood stock-still. In our little hearts something tightened,
when we saw how the ring of sheepskin coats,
fur coats, hooded coats, was contracting,
how he stood up near the green vegetable stall
with his head pulled into his shoulders from the hail
of jabs, kicks, spitting, slaps in the face.
Suddenly someone from the right by the handcart
pushed his teeth in,
Suddenly someone from the left bashed his forehead with a
chunk of ice.
Blood appeared-and then they started in, in earnest.
All piled up in a heap they began to scream together,
pounding with sticks, reins,
and linchpins out of wheels.
In vain he wheezed to them: 'Mates,
you’re my mates-what’s the matter? '
The mob wanted to settle accounts fully.
The mob was deaf with rage.
The mob grumbled at those who weren’t putting their boots in,
and they trampled something that looked like a body
into the spring snow that was turning into mud.
They beat him up with relish. With ingenuity. Juicy.
I saw how skillfully and precisely
one man kept putting the boots in,
boots with greasy flaps on them,
right under the belt of the man who was down,
smothered in mud and dungy water.
Their owner, a guy with an honest enough mug,
very proud of his high principles,
was saying with each kick: 'Don’t try your tricks with us! '
booting him deliberately, with the utmost conviction,
and, sweat pouring, with a red face, he jovially called to me:
'Come on, youngster, get in it! '
I can’t remember-how many there were, making a din,
beating him up.
It may have been a hundred, it may have been more,
but I, just a boy, wept for shame.
And if a hundred are beating somebody up,
howling in a frenzy-even if for a good cause-
I will never make one hundred and one!
1963
Translated by Tina Tupikina-Glaessner, Geoffrey Dutton, and Igor Mezhakoff-Koriakin (revised)
when u once lived here
life was so much different
life was fun and kewl
life was always an adventure for me & u
Taylor & I are always gonna be
childhood besties
we're frens till the end
I got your back, you got mine
till the end of our life time
your my ride or die gurl
my smile or cry gurl
your always my gurl
Taylor M. Boyd
I maybbe here, your lyke way over there
I will always call you
my childhood bestie
you & I have so much in common
wow....think of us as a mystery
we we're always together
never apart
until the day my bestie tay moved away
she left me all alone & sad
she didnt even come see me and say goodbye
she left me at a bad time
she left when I needed her so bad
I was sad, lonely, and depressed
for the longest time I will admit
taylor your lyke my lil sister
I will no matter what always envy you
you where there when I needed you
I was always there for you
and you broke my heart
when you left me behind
but no worries TAY...
I will always think of you
as my best
childhood BESTIE =)
If I get a chance to bargain
Will ask the Almighty again;
‘O God! If thy really could
Give me back my childhood.
I want back my those days,
Innocent acts and plays,
Tricky games and cycle race,
Showing friends masked face,
Digging pits in soil of land,
Drawing sketches in the sand,
Running after the butterflies,
Watching planes in the sky,
Playing  with  the  puppy,
In parties becoming happy,
Hopping  in  the  streets
Going   to  buy   sweets,
Doing things not known to me,
At times crawling on knees,
After school watching cartoons,
Little sleeps in the afternoons,
Doing independent activities,
Free from all responsibilities,
Free from all kind of tensions,
Asking confound questions.’
Childhood is morning of life
From here life begins thrive;
No hardness, no tough heat,
Childhood is innocent n neat.
‘Return my childhood,
O God! if thy could.’
(c)  S. D. Tiwari
Some deem I'm gentle, some I'm kind:
It may be so,--I cannot say.
I know I have a simple mind
And see things in a simple way;
And like a child I love to play.
I love to toy with pretty words
And syllable them into rhyme;
To make them sing like sunny birds
In happy droves with silver chime,
In dulcet groves in summer time.
I pray, with hair more white than grey,
And second childhood coming on,
That yet with wonderment I may
See life as in its lucent dawn,
And be by beauty so beguiled
I'll sing as sings a child.
I was not born with a fortune wholesome;
Born nor was I, as the only son-child;
Who cares if you are learned and handsome?
This world cares for only wealth that is piled!
Eighth son I’ as born of a teacher father;
Honest, he was but never worldly-wise!
So lucky was I, having a good mother;
The best education, they gave as prize.
I loved to work hard and do my duty;
Rest was assured; God only was my Friend;
I could not become rich- what a beauty!
This was the way, my life I yearned to end.
God gave me a great reward- that’s His Lute!
I was to play it like a Bard so cute.
Can I forget my mother’s cooking skills,
Her punishments and kind advice at times?
Can I forget the games at school and drills,
My kindergarten teacher who taught rhymes?
Can I forget my siblings and my friends,
My father’s knowledge great that goaded me?
Can I forget my sins and my amends,
And how I asked God’s forgiveness dearly?
Can I forget the mosquitoes and ants,
That bit each one of us in yester-life?
Can I forget my hunger-pangs, half-pants,
My walks to school in rain and sun and strife?
My childhood years were filled with sadness, joys,
Innocent mistakes, tears and not much toys!
Dedicated to all today, on Mother Mary’s birthday
Copyright by Dr John Celes 9-8-2005
Isn't it enough for me to be a blossom of humanity
to breath the beauty that is meant for a being
standing all alone in the rain of sorrow
walking all alone in the breeze of sighs
waiting all alone in the hope of escape
seeing silently the stealing of unseen childhood,
ain't enough time to let the words from wounded heart to depart
so my weary fate decided to wear the unheard words to impart
in an appearance of unasked yet unanswered questions:
Why I am painted with pain?
Why I am tagged with tradition?
Why I am extinct while existing?
For what reason? I have to keep the imposed treaty?
And for what reason? I have to veil my soul from equality?
and for how long the unknown heartache will be hidden from unknown reality?
wait a minute my stolen childhood, to whom am I speaking?
to this world where life is sold on conditions
Down the dimpled green-sward dancing
Bursts a flaxen-headed bevy,
Bud-lipt boys and girls advancing
Love's irregular little levy.
Rows of liquid eyes in laughter,
How they glimmer, how they quiver!
Sparkling one another after,
Like bright ripples on a river.
Tipsy band of rubious faces,
Flushed with joy's etheral spirit,
Make your mocks and sly grimaces
At Love's self, and do not fear it!
--Was it for this
That one, the fairest of all Rivers, lov'd
To blend his murmurs with my Nurse's song,
And from his alder shades and rocky falls,
And from his fords and shallows, sent a voice
That flow'd along my dreams? For this, didst Thou,
O Derwent! travelling over the green Plains
Near my 'sweet Birthplace', didst thou, beauteous Stream
Make ceaseless music through the night and day
Which with its steady cadence, tempering
Our human waywardness, compos'd my thoughts
To more than infant softness, giving me,
Among the fretful dwellings of mankind,
A knowledge, a dim earnest, of the calm
That Nature breathes among the hills and groves.
When, having left his Mountains, to the Towers
Of Cockermouth that beauteous River came,
Behind my Father's House he pass'd, close by,
Along the margin of our Terrace Walk.
He was a Playmate whom we dearly lov'd.
Oh! many a time have I, a five years' Child,
A naked Boy, in one delightful Rill,
A little Mill-race sever'd from his stream,
Made one long bathing of a summer's day,
Bask'd in the sun, and plunged, and bask'd again
Alternate all a summer's day, or cours'd
Over the sandy fields, leaping through groves
Of yellow grunsel, or when crag and hill,
The woods, and distant Skiddaw's lofty height,
Were bronz'd with a deep radiance, stood alone
Beneath the sky, as if I had been born
On Indian Plains, and from my Mother's hut
Had run abroad in wantonness, to sport,
A naked Savage, in the thunder shower.
Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up
Foster'd alike by beauty and by fear;
Much favour'd in my birthplace, and no less
In that beloved Vale to which, erelong,
I was transplanted. Well I call to mind
('Twas at an early age, ere I had seen
Nine summers) when upon the mountain slope
The frost and breath of frosty wind had snapp'd
The last autumnal crocus, 'twas my joy
To wander half the night among the Cliffs
And the smooth Hollows, where the woodcocks ran
Along the open turf. In thought and wish
That time, my shoulder all with springes hung,
I was a fell destroyer. On the heights
Scudding away from snare to snare, I plied
My anxious visitation, hurrying on,
Still hurrying, hurrying onward; moon and stars
Were shining o'er my head; I was alone,
And seem'd to be a trouble to the peace
That was among them. Sometimes it befel
In these night-wanderings, that a strong desire
O'erpower'd my better reason, and the bird
Which was the captive of another's toils
Became my prey; and, when the deed was done
I heard among the solitary hills
Low breathings coming after me, and sounds
Of undistinguishable motion, steps
Almost as silent as the turf they trod.
Nor less in springtime when on southern banks
The shining sun had from his knot of leaves
Decoy'd the primrose flower, and when the Vales
And woods were warm, was I a plunderer then
In the high places, on the lonesome peaks
Where'er, among the mountains and the winds,
The Mother Bird had built her lodge. Though mean
My object, and inglorious, yet the end
Was not ignoble. Oh! when I have hung
Above the raven's nest, by knots of grass
And half-inch fissures in the slippery rock
But ill sustain'd, and almost, as it seem'd,
Suspended by the blast which blew amain,
Shouldering the naked crag; Oh! at that time,
While on the perilous ridge I hung alone,
With what strange utterance did the loud dry wind
Blow through my ears! the sky seem'd not a sky
Of earth, and with what motion mov'd the clouds!
The mind of Man is fram'd even like the breath
And harmony of music. There is a dark
Invisible workmanship that reconciles
Discordant elements, and makes them move
In one society. Ah me! that all
The terrors, all the early miseries
Regrets, vexations, lassitudes, that all
The thoughts and feelings which have been infus'd
Into my mind, should ever have made up
The calm existence that is mine when I
Am worthy of myself! Praise to the end!
Thanks likewise for the means! But I believe
That Nature, oftentimes, when she would frame
A favor'd Being, from his earliest dawn
Of infancy doth open out the clouds,
As at the touch of lightning, seeking him
With gentlest visitation; not the less,
Though haply aiming at the self-same end,
Does it delight her sometimes to employ
Severer interventions, ministry
More palpable, and so she dealt with me.
One evening (surely I was led by her)
I went alone into a Shepherd's Boat,
A Skiff that to a Willow tree was tied
Within a rocky Cave, its usual home.
'Twas by the shores of Patterdale, a Vale
Wherein I was a Stranger, thither come
A School-boy Traveller, at the Holidays.
Forth rambled from the Village Inn alone
No sooner had I sight of this small Skiff,
Discover'd thus by unexpected chance,
Than I unloos'd her tether and embark'd.
The moon was up, the Lake was shining clear
Among the hoary mountains; from the Shore
I push'd, and struck the oars and struck again
In cadence, and my little Boat mov'd on
Even like a Man who walks with stately step
Though bent on speed. It was an act of stealth
And troubled pleasure; not without the voice
Of mountain-echoes did my Boat move on,
Leaving behind her still on either side
Small circles glittering idly in the moon,
Until they melted all into one track
Of sparkling light. A rocky Steep uprose
Above the Cavern of the Willow tree
And now, as suited one who proudly row'd
With his best skill, I fix'd a steady view
Upon the top of that same craggy ridge,
The bound of the horizon, for behind
Was nothing but the stars and the grey sky.
She was an elfin Pinnace; lustily
I dipp'd my oars into the silent Lake,
And, as I rose upon the stroke, my Boat
Went heaving through the water, like a Swan;
When from behind that craggy Steep, till then
The bound of the horizon, a huge Cliff,
As if with voluntary power instinct,
Uprear'd its head. I struck, and struck again
And, growing still in stature, the huge Cliff
Rose up between me and the stars, and still,
With measur'd motion, like a living thing,
Strode after me. With trembling hands I turn'd,
And through the silent water stole my way
Back to the Cavern of the Willow tree.
There, in her mooring-place, I left my Bark,
And, through the meadows homeward went, with grave
And serious thoughts; and after I had seen
That spectacle, for many days, my brain
Work'd with a dim and undetermin'd sense
Of unknown modes of being; in my thoughts
There was a darkness, call it solitude,
Or blank desertion, no familiar shapes
Of hourly objects, images of trees,
Of sea or sky, no colours of green fields;
But huge and mighty Forms that do not live
Like living men mov'd slowly through the mind
By day and were the trouble of my dreams.
Wisdom and Spirit of the universe!
Thou Soul that art the eternity of thought!
That giv'st to forms and images a breath
And everlasting motion! not in vain,
By day or star-light thus from my first dawn
Of Childhood didst Thou intertwine for me
The passions that build up our human Soul,
Not with the mean and vulgar works of Man,
But with high objects, with enduring things,
With life and nature, purifying thus
The elements of feeling and of thought,
And sanctifying, by such discipline,
Both pain and fear, until we recognize
A grandeur in the beatings of the heart.
Nor was this fellowship vouchsaf'd to me
With stinted kindness. In November days,
When vapours, rolling down the valleys, made
A lonely scene more lonesome; among woods
At noon, and 'mid the calm of summer nights,
When, by the margin of the trembling Lake,
Beneath the gloomy hills I homeward went
In solitude, such intercourse was mine;
'Twas mine among the fields both day and night,
And by the waters all the summer long.
And in the frosty season, when the sun
Was set, and visible for many a mile
The cottage windows through the twilight blaz'd,
I heeded not the summons:--happy time
It was, indeed, for all of us; to me
It was a time of rapture: clear and loud
The village clock toll'd six; I wheel'd about,
Proud and exulting, like an untired horse,
That cares not for its home.--All shod with steel,
We hiss'd along the polish'd ice, in games
Confederate, imitative of the chace
And woodland pleasures, the resounding horn,
The Pack loud bellowing, and the hunted hare.
So through the darkness and the cold we flew,
And not a voice was idle; with the din,
Meanwhile, the precipices rang aloud,
The leafless trees, and every icy crag
Tinkled like iron, while the distant hills
Into the tumult sent an alien sound
Of melancholy, not unnoticed, while the stars,
Eastward, were sparkling clear, and in the west
The orange sky of evening died away.
Not seldom from the uproar I retired
Into a silent bay, or sportively
Glanced sideway, leaving the tumultuous throng,
To cut across the image of a star
That gleam'd upon the ice: and oftentimes
When we had given our bodies to the wind,
And all the shadowy banks, on either side,
Came sweeping through the darkness, spinning still
The rapid line of motion; then at once
Have I, reclining back upon my heels,
Stopp'd short, yet still the solitary Cliffs
Wheeled by me, even as if the earth had roll'd
With visible motion her diurnal round;
Behind me did they stretch in solemn train
Feebler and feebler, and I stood and watch'd
Till all was tranquil as a dreamless sleep.
Ye Presences of Nature, in the sky
And on the earth! Ye Visions of the hills!
And Souls of lonely places! can I think
A vulgar hope was yours when Ye employ'd
Such ministry, when Ye through many a year
Haunting me thus among my boyish sports,
On caves and trees, upon the woods and hills,
Impress'd upon all forms the characters
Of danger or desire, and thus did make
The surface of the universal earth
With triumph, and delight, and hope, and fear,
Work like a sea?       Not uselessly employ'd,
I might pursue this theme through every change
Of exercise and play, to which the year
Did summon us in its delightful round.
We were a noisy crew, the sun in heaven
Beheld not vales more beautiful than ours,
Nor saw a race in happiness and joy
More worthy of the ground where they were sown.
I would record with no reluctant voice
The woods of autumn and their hazel bowers
With milk-white clusters hung; the rod and line,
True symbol of the foolishness of hope,
Which with its strong enchantment led us on
By rocks and pools, shut out from every star
All the green summer, to forlorn cascades
Among the windings of the mountain brooks.
--Unfading recollections! at this hour
The heart is almost mine with which I felt
From some hill-top, on sunny afternoons
The Kite high up among the fleecy clouds
Pull at its rein, like an impatient Courser,
Or, from the meadows sent on gusty days,
Beheld her breast the wind, then suddenly
Dash'd headlong; and rejected by the storm.
Ye lowly Cottages in which we dwelt,
A ministration of your own was yours,
A sanctity, a safeguard, and a love!
Can I forget you, being as ye were
So beautiful among the pleasant fields
In which ye stood? Or can I here forget
The plain and seemly countenance with which
Ye dealt out your plain comforts? Yet had ye
Delights and exultations of your own.
Eager and never weary we pursued
Our home amusements by the warm peat-fire
At evening; when with pencil and with slate,
In square divisions parcell'd out, and all
With crosses and with cyphers scribbled o'er,
We schemed and puzzled, head opposed to head
In strife too humble to be named in Verse.
Or round the naked table, snow-white deal,
Cherry or maple, sate in close array,
And to the combat, Lu or Whist, led on
thick-ribbed Army; not as in the world
Neglected and ungratefully thrown by
Even for the very service they had wrought,
But husbanded through many a long campaign.
Uncouth assemblage was it, where no few
Had changed their functions, some, plebeian cards,
Which Fate beyond the promise of their birth
Had glorified, and call'd to represent
The persons of departed Potentates.
Oh! with what echoes on the Board they fell!
Ironic Diamonds, Clubs, Hearts, Diamonds, Spades,
A congregation piteously akin.
Cheap matter did they give to boyish wit,
Those sooty knaves, precipitated down
With scoffs and taunts, like Vulcan out of Heaven,
The paramount Ace, a moon in her eclipse,
Queens, gleaming through their splendour's last decay,
And Monarchs, surly at the wrongs sustain'd
By royal visages. Meanwhile, abroad
The heavy rain was falling, or the frost
Raged bitterly, with keen and silent tooth,
And, interrupting oft the impassion'd game,
From Esthwaite's neighbouring Lake the splitting ice,
While it sank down towards the water, sent,
Among the meadows and the hills, its long
And dismal yellings, like the noise of wolves
When they are howling round the Bothnic Main.
Nor, sedulous as I have been to trace
How Nature by extrinsic passion first
Peopled my mind with beauteous forms or grand,
And made me love them, may I well forget
How other pleasures have been mine, and joys
Of subtler origin; how I have felt,
Not seldom, even in that tempestuous time,
Those hallow'd and pure motions of the sense
Which seem, in their simplicity, to own
An intellectual charm, that calm delight
Which, if I err not, surely must belong
To those first-born affinities that fit
Our new existence to existing things,
And, in our dawn of being, constitute
The bond of union betwixt life and joy.
Yes, I remember, when the changeful earth,
And twice five seasons on my mind had stamp'd
The faces of the moving year, even then,
A Child, I held unconscious intercourse
With the eternal Beauty, drinking in
A pure organic pleasure from the lines
Of curling mist, or from the level plain
Of waters colour'd by the steady clouds.
The Sands of Westmoreland, the Creeks and Bays
Of Cumbria's rocky limits, they can tell
How when the Sea threw off his evening shade
And to the Shepherd's huts beneath the crags
Did send sweet notice of the rising moon,
How I have stood, to fancies such as these,
Engrafted in the tenderness of thought,
A stranger, linking with the spectacle
No conscious memory of a kindred sight,
And bringing with me no peculiar sense
Of quietness or peace, yet I have stood,
Even while mine eye has mov'd o'er three long leagues
Of shining water, gathering, as it seem'd,
Through every hair-breadth of that field of light,
New pleasure, like a bee among the flowers.
Thus, often in those fits of vulgar joy
Which, through all seasons, on a child's pursuits
Are prompt attendants, 'mid that giddy bliss
Which, like a tempest, works along the blood
And is forgotten; even then I felt
Gleams like the flashing of a shield; the earth
And common face of Nature spake to me
Rememberable things; sometimes, 'tis true,
By chance collisions and quaint accidents
Like those ill-sorted unions, work suppos'd
Of evil-minded fairies, yet not vain
Nor profitless, if haply they impress'd
Collateral objects and appearances,
Albeit lifeless then, and doom'd to sleep
Until maturer seasons call'd them forth
To impregnate and to elevate the mind.
--And if the vulgar joy by its own weight
Wearied itself out of the memory,
The scenes which were a witness of that joy
Remained, in their substantial lineaments
Depicted on the brain, and to the eye
Were visible, a daily sight; and thus
By the impressive discipline of fear,
By pleasure and repeated happiness,
So frequently repeated, and by force
Of obscure feelings representative
Of joys that were forgotten, these same scenes,
So beauteous and majestic in themselves,
Though yet the day was distant, did at length
Become habitually dear, and all
Their hues and forms were by invisible links
Allied to the affections.       I began
My story early, feeling as I fear,
The weakness of a human love, for days
Disown'd by memory, ere the birth of spring
Planting my snowdrops among winter snows.
Nor will it seem to thee, my Friend! so prompt
In sympathy, that I have lengthen'd out,
With fond and feeble tongue, a tedious tale.
Meanwhile, my hope has been that I might fetch
Invigorating thoughts from former years,
Might fix the wavering balance of my wind,
And haply meet reproaches, too, whose power
May spur me on, in manhood now mature,
To honorable toil. Yet should these hopes
Be vain, and thus should neither I be taught
To understand myself, nor thou to know
With better knowledge how the heart was fram'd
Of him thou lovest, need I dread from thee
Harsh judgments, if I am so loth to quit
Those recollected hours that have the charm
Of visionary things, and lovely forms
And sweet sensations that throw back our life
And almost make our Infancy itself
A visible scene, on which the sun is shining?
One end hereby at least hath been attain'd,
My mind hath been revived, and if this mood
Desert me not, I will forthwith bring down,
Through later years, the story of my life.
The road lies plain before me; 'tis a theme
Single and of determined bounds; and hence
I chuse it rather at this time, than work
Of ampler or more varied argument.
When he asked about my childhood
I knew not where to start.
The scents began to flood my head
while strangling my heart.
My mind has instant recall
on those certain horrid scents.
Like overflowing ashtrays
in a car with blowing vents.
The smell of all night parties
mixed with the scent of a strangers love.
The sour stench of sweat and tears
it's hard to rise above.
The pungent smell of beer breath
in a young girls sleeping face.
The memories of childhood
are not so easily erased.
Some things are burnt in memory
no matter how we fight.
He quietly put a scented candle
on the table in plain sight
Today I found a can of paint.
The paintbrush was there, too.
Mommy must have left it
when her painting was all through.
It was such a pretty color,
I learned you call it 'red'.
It made me think of pretty things
that same color in my head.
I painted rainbows from the sky,
and hearts, and bows for hair.
When Mommy saw it, she got mad
and sat me in a chair.
She told me I was naughty
and to think of what I’d done.
While I thought, she scrubbed and scrubbed
and cleaned off all my fun.
I’ll never understand my mom,
why she laughed when we were through...
I only said I wished
the pretty color had been blue.
When I think of the many people
who privately despise children,
I can't say I'm completely shocked,
having been one. I was not
exceptional, uncomfortable as that is
to admit, and most children are not
exceptional. The particulars of
cruelty, sizes Large and X-Large,
memory gnawing it like
a fat dog, are ordinary: Mean Miss
Smigelsky from the sixth grade;
the orthodontist who
slapped you for crying out. Children
frighten us, other people's and
our own. They reflect
the virused figures in which failure
began. We feel accosted by their
vulnerable natures. Each child turns
into a problematic ocean, a mirrored
body growing denser and more
difficult to navigate until
sunlight merely bounces
off the surface. They become impossible
to sound. Like us, but even weaker.
It comes in many flavors.
It comes in lots of smells.
It can keep a secret
and never, ever tell.
You'll know it when you hear it.
If you look, you'll see it, too.
It's everywhere around outside,
even there, inside of you.
It can turn a sad day happy.
It can turn a mad day glad.
It will even be there
when you've been really bad.
It's something in both day and night,
every second, every minute.
It's right there in your family
and everyone who's in it.
Did you guess my riddle?
Just a few things left to say -
If you want a lot of it,
then give it ALL away!
It's left and right.  It's all around.
It's under and above.
I think you've guessed the answer!
It's   L - O - V - E    love.
I gotta play by myself today
cause Mommy is cleaning and mopping.
Then she’ll be calling a sitter
for when she goes grocery shopping.
The sitter, she’s really boring.
She’s always on the dumb phone,
or painting her nails or combing her hair
so I guess I’ll be playing alone …
I think I will get out my play dough
and make a spaghetti pie.
Or maybe, I'll feed all my dollies
so they won't be fussy and cry.
At two, I’ll watch my TV shows.
Till then, I'll build with my blocks.
When I'm done, I'll pick them all up
(if I can get 'em all back in the box) .
Maybe after, my secret friend and I
will draw a picture or two
with all my favorite crayons,
specially the reds greens and blues.
I really like my toys and games
and my other good stuff … but gee,
I think ALL playing is funner
when Mommy is here beside me.
I walk among the rows of bowed heads--
the children are sleeping through fourth grade
so as to be ready for what is ahead,
the monumental boredom of junior high
and the rush forward tearing their wings
loose and turning their eyes forever inward.
These are the children of Flint, their fathers
work at the spark plug factory or truck
bottled water in 5 gallon sea-blue jugs
to the widows of the suburbs. You can see
already how their backs have thickened,
how their small hands, soiled by pig iron,
leap and stutter even in dreams. I would like
to sit down among them and read slowly
from The Book of Job until the windows
pale and the teacher rises out of a milky sea
of industrial scum, her gowns streaming
with light, her foolish words transformed
into song, I would like to arm each one
with a quiver of arrows so that they might
rush like wind there where no battle rages
shouting among the trumpets, Hal Ha!
How dear the gift of laughter in the face
of the 8 hour day, the cold winter mornings
without coffee and oranges, the long lines
of mothers in old coats waiting silently
where the gates have closed. Ten years ago
I went among these same children, just born,
in the bright ward of the Sacred Heart and leaned
down to hear their breaths delivered that day,
burning with joy. There was such wonder
in their sleep, such purpose in their eyes
dosed against autumn, in their damp heads
blurred with the hair of ponds, and not one
turned against me or the light, not one
said, I am sick, I am tired, I will go home,
not one complained or drifted alone,
unloved, on the hardest day of their lives.
Eleven years from now they will become
the men and women of Flint or Paradise,
the majors of a minor town, and I
will be gone into smoke or memory,
so I bow to them here and whisper
all I know, all I will never know.
I WALK through the long schoolroom questioning;
A kind old nun in a white hood replies;
The children learn to cipher and to sing,
To study reading-books and histories,
To cut and sew, be neat in everything
In the best modern way -- the children's eyes
In momentary wonder stare upon
A sixty-year-old smiling public man.
I dream of a Ledaean body, bent
Above a sinking fire.  a tale that she
Told of a harsh reproof, or trivial event
That changed some childish day to tragedy --
Told, and it seemed that our two natures blent
Into a sphere from youthful sympathy,
Or else, to alter Plato's parable,
Into the yolk and white of the one shell.
III
And thinking of that fit of grief or rage
I look upon one child or t'other there
And wonder if she stood so at that age --
For even daughters of the swan can share
Something of every paddler's heritage --
And had that colour upon cheek or hair,
And thereupon my heart is driven wild:
She stands before me as a living child.
Her present image floats into the mind --
Did Quattrocento finger fashion it
Hollow of cheek as though it drank the wind
And took a mess of shadows for its meat?
And I though never of Ledaean kind
Had pretty plumage once -- enough of that,
Better to smile on all that smile, and show
There is a comfortable kind of old scarecrow.
What youthful mother, a shape upon her lap
Honey of generation had betrayed,
And that must sleep, shriek, struggle to escape
As recollection or the drug decide,
Would think her Son, did she but see that shape
With sixty or more winters on its head,
A compensation for the pang of his birth,
Or the uncertainty of his setting forth?
Plato thought nature but a spume that plays
Upon a ghostly paradigm of things;
Solider Aristotle played the taws
Upon the bottom of a king of kings;
World-famous golden-thighed Pythagoras
Fingered upon a fiddle-stick or strings
What a star sang and careless Muses heard:
Old clothes upon old sticks to scare a bird.
VII
Both nuns and mothers worship images,
But thos the candles light are not as those
That animate a mother's reveries,
But keep a marble or a bronze repose.
And yet they too break hearts -- O presences
That passion, piety or affection knows,
And that all heavenly glory symbolise --
O self-born mockers of man's enterprise;
VIII
Labour is blossoming or dancing where
The body is not bruised to pleasure soul.
Nor beauty born out of its own despair,
Nor blear-eyed wisdom out of midnight oil.
O chestnut-tree, great-rooted blossomer,
Are you the leaf, the blossom or the bole?
O body swayed to music, O brightening glance,
How can we know the dancer from the dance?
There's an angel in my pocket
who is watching over me,
just a little voice down deep inside
that I can hear, not see.
I wish that I could let her out
so that everyone could see
'cause we have the greatest secrets,
many things she shares with me.
She whispers little things to do
to make my parents glad
and tells me when there's something
that I want to do that's bad.
Oh I wish that I could see her
not just hear her talk to me...
it's just a little voice down deep inside
that I can hear, not see.
Angels all around me.
Angels high above.
Pretty angels everywhere
guarding me with love.
Angels at my bedside
help me start my prayers
while other angels hurry
mom and daddy up the stairs.
When it’s time to say night-night
the angels’ jobs aren’t through.
When I close my eyes to sleep,
they watch me all night, too.
Angels all around me.
Angels high above.
Pretty angels everywhere
guarding me with love.
133
As Children bid the Guest "Good Night"
And then reluctant turn—
My flowers raise their pretty lips—
Then put their nightgowns on.
As children caper when they wake
Merry that it is Morn—
My flowers from a hundred cribs
Will peep, and prance again.
Our neighbor, Mr. Brown,
came over yesterday.
He was yelling at my daddy
about the pothole in our lane.
'Surely the city should fix it!
Surely they know it's there.
It's the widest, deepest pothole!
Surely the city must care! '
I know Mr. Brown was angry,
and he's really a very nice man,
but why'd he call Daddy Shirley?
Some things I don't understand...
My baby brother falls a lot.
I see how sad he feels.
Why don't baby brothers
come with training wheels?
So, this is Christmas morning...
everyone is here.
I don't really understand it
cause it isn't very clear,
but Mom and Dad are happy,
there's pretty ribbons everywhere,
lots of things that they call presents
and even paper I can tear.
They keep showing me this new stuff,
balls and books and even soxes...
they don't seem to know how fun it is
just playing with these boxes.
Hush now, barking spiders,
please don’t make a sound.
I’m at my birthday party.
I don’t need you guys around.
All my friends are here.
It’s important that you know
you didn’t get invited
so I wish that you’d just go.
I’m wearing all my birthday stuff,
shirt, pants and my new sandals.
If you won’t go, then please hush up
when I blow out my candles.
The barking spiders all march in
just past dinner time.
Some big, some small, they come to call
floating on the wind behind.
Each is clearly noticed,
although they can't be seen.
You're positive they're there, though,
'cause your nose is very keen.
You know you can't outrun them
and a net won't get them caught.
Your friends laugh 'cause they're funny,
but your mom yells 'cause they're not.
So open all the windows!
Crack the vents, real fast!
'Cause these aren't normal spiders -
BARKING spiders are just gas.
Those pesky barking spiders
followed me to church Sunday.
I tried to make them stay at home,
but they came anyway.
Then I did something naughty
'cause they were being bad.
When people turned and looked at me,
- I pointed at my dad.
Bats can hit a baseball.
Girls can bat their eyes.
But the bats I want to talk about
fly with radar in the skies.
Bats are cute and furry.
I think bats are cool
and if I could only catch one
I’d bring it into school.
I’m sure you think they’re creepy.
They might even make you scream.
But where would we be without a bat
on scary Halloween?
I know it’s hard to like them.
It isn’t automatic.
Mom and dad don’t mind them though
IF... they don’t live in our attic.
All things within this fading world hath end,
Adversity doth still our joys attend;
No ties so strong, no friends so dear and sweet,
But with death's parting blow are sure to meet.
The sentence past is most irrevocable,
A common thing, yet oh, inevitable.
How soon, my Dear, death may my steps attend,
How soon't may be thy lot to lose thy friend,
We both are ignorant, yet love bids me
These farewell lines to recommend to thee,
That when the knot's untied that made us one,
I may seem thine, who in effect am none.
And if I see not half my days that's due,
What nature would, God grant to yours and you;
The many faults that well you know I have
Let be interred in my oblivious grave;
If any worth or virtue were in me,
Let that live freshly in thy memory
And when thou feel'st no grief, as I no harmes,
Yet love thy dead, who long lay in thine arms,
And when thy loss shall be repaid with gains
Look to my little babes, my dear remains.
And if thou love thyself, or loved'st me,
These O protect from stepdame's injury.
And if chance to thine eyes shall bring this verse,
With some sad sighs honor my absent hearse;
And kiss this paper for thy dear love's sake,
Who with salt tears this last farewell did take.
Wake up, Mom and Daddy.
We’ve got a BIG surprise.
Me and Sissy made you breakfast.
Please, open up your eyes.
Here’s the paper from the porch,
Just in case you want to read.
Please wake up and put your glasses on
so you guys can see.
There’s cereal with milk on it
and toast with butter, too.
(Sissy scraped the black stuff off) .
We made this ALL for you.
We didn’t make the coffee,
but, Mommy, that’s okay
‘cause me and Sissy found some
in the pot from yesterday.
The eggs look kind of funny,
not like the ones you make.
Ours are way too slickery.
They keep sliding off the plate.
We’re sorry there’s no muffin,
but there weren’t any more.
Well... the one that was left over
got smushed on the kitchen floor.
There used to be a donut, too,
and it was on the plate.
Me and Sissy got real hungry,
but it’s the only thing we ate.
When it comes to making breakfast,
there's a lot of work to do,
but we made it just to show you
Mom and Daddy, we love you.
Children imitating cormorants
are even more wonderful
than cormorants.
Translated by Robert Hass
Our fathers wrung their bread from stocks and stones
And fenced their gardens with the Redmen's bones;
Embarking from the Nether Land of Holland,
Pilgrims unhouseled by Geneva's night,
They planted here the Serpent's seeds of light;
And here the pivoting searchlights probe to shock
The riotous glass houses built on rock,
And candles gutter by an empty altar,
And light is where the landless blood of Cain
Is burning, burning the unburied grain.
I talked to Grammy yesterday
about a girl I know.
Her skin’s a different color
but I like her, even though
the other children tease her
and it makes her run away
because she looks so different
and they never let her play.
I think she looks just beautiful!
Her skin is chocolate brown.
She’s the nicest girl I’ve ever met
and it’s sad to see her frown.
Grammy held me on her lap
and told me she was proud.
She said that’s what’s important
and then my gram allowed
that children are life's rainbow,
black and yellow, red and white,
but the colors aren't what matter,
it's what's down deep inside.
I asked her if that’s what it means
when we say we’re colorblind.
She smiled and said it should mean that
in all hearts and in all minds.
Children love, they laugh, they care.
Children, bless them, they know how to share.
Children try hard to be what you want,
Sometimes they can't and they start
To cry, that's when a hug or a
Kiss is the tool, no not a spanking
That's not the rule.
Children do good and children do bad,
Children are happy and children are sad.
Children must walk before they
Can run, all of us wake to the
Bright morning sun.
So cherish the children these
Treasures from God, for without
Them the Earth would be nothing
But water and sod.
Come to me, O ye children!
For I hear you at your play,
And the questions that perplexed me
Have vanished quite away.
Ye open the eastern windows,
That look towards the sun,
Where thoughts are singing swallows
And the brooks of morning run.
In your hearts are the birds and the sunshine,
In your thoughts the brooklet's flow,
But in mine is the wind of Autumn
And the first fall of the snow.
Ah! what would the world be to us
If the children were no more?
We should dread the desert behind us
Worse than the dark before.
What the leaves are to the forest,
With light and air for food,
Ere their sweet and tender juices
Have been hardened into wood, --
That to the world are children;
Through them it feels the glow
Of a brighter and sunnier climate
Than reaches the trunks below.
Come to me, O ye children!
And whisper in my ear
What the birds and the winds are singing
In your sunny atmosphere.
For what are all our contrivings,
And the wisdom of our books,
When compared with your caresses,
And the gladness of your looks?
Ye are better than all the ballads
That ever were sung or said;
For ye are living poems,
And all the rest are dead.
With beasts and gods, above, the wall is bright.
The child's head, bent to the book-colored shelves,
Is slow and sidelong and food-gathering,
Moving in blind grace ... yet from the mural, Care
The grey-eyed one, fishing the morning mist,
Seizes the baby hero by the hair
And whispers, in the tongue of gods and children,
Words of a doom as ecumenical as dawn
But blanched like dawn, with dew.
The children's cries
Are to men the cries of crickets, dense with warmth
-- But dip a finger into Fafnir, taste it,
And all their words are plain as chance and pain.
Their tales are full of sorcerers and ogres
Because their lives are: the capricious infinite
That, like parents, no one has yet escaped
Except by luck or magic; and since strength
And wit are useless, be kind or stupid, wait
Some power's gratitude, the tide of things.
Read meanwhile ... hunt among the shelves, as dogs do, grasses,
And find one cure for Everychild's diseases
Beginning: Once upon a time there was
A wolf that fed, a mouse that warned, a bear that rode
A boy. Us men, alas! wolves, mice, bears bore.
And yet wolves, mice, bears, children, gods and men
In slow preambulation up and down the shelves
Of the universe are seeking ... who knows except themselves?
What some escape to, some escape: if we find Swann's
Way better than our own, an trudge on at the back
Of the north wind to -- to -- somewhere east
Of the sun, west of the moon, it is because we live
By trading another's sorrow for our own; another's
Impossibilities, still unbelieved in, for our own ...
"I am myself still?" For a little while, forget:
The world's selves cure that short disease, myself,
And we see bending to us, dewy-eyed, the great
CHANGE, dear to all things not to themselves endeared.
Christmas is really
for the children.
Especially for children
who like animals, stables,
stars and babies wrapped
in swaddling clothes.
Then there are wise men,
kings in fine robes,
humble shepherds and a
hint of rich perfume.
Easter is not really
for the children
unless accompanied by
a cream filled egg.
It has whips, blood, nails,
a spear and allegations
of body snatching.
It involves politics, God
and the sins of the world.
It is not good for people
of a nervous disposition.
They would do better to
think on rabbits, chickens
and the first snowdrop
of spring.
Or they'd do better to
wait for a re-run of
Christmas without asking
too many questions about
what Jesus did when he grew up
or whether there's any connection.
I cry when I am hurting
and sometimes when I'm sad.
I cry when I get punished
'cause I've done something bad.
I cry when I am angry
(that means when I'm mad) ,
but grownups sure are funny...
Mommy cries when she is glad.
Daddy left his boots for me
and here I have to stay
‘cause Daddy is a soldier,
I’m in charge while he’s away.
In Daddy’s boots I can pretend
that now I am the man
who does the things that Daddy does
as only Daddy can.
I help with little brother,
I help with folding clothes,
I help to set the table,
and I hope Daddy knows
that every day I wear his boots
so I’ll feel close to him
and I try to keep Mom happy
till he comes home again.
I know that he’s protecting us.
That’s what soldiers do,
but his boots are way too big for me
and my job, being him, is too.
Mom, when is Daddy coming home?
I miss him all the time.
She said Daddy would be proud of me
and his boots... fit me just fine.
(For my grandson, Will Jr., with love.  His daddy is in Iraq)
On warm dark nights I think I see
beneath the weeping willow tree,
the fairies dancing in the grass
on tiny feet that fly so fast.
The music is the wind that blows
while fairies spin on bare tiptoes,
and fireflies jewel up the night
reflecting fairies in their light.
Round and round the fairies dance!
On bitsy feet they skip and prance
through tiny dew drops to and fro,
til morning comes, and then they go.
I wonder where the fairies live
and do they know what fun they give
to little girls and boys that see
beneath the weeping willow tree?
Dear God,
I dreamed I came to Heaven
to have a talk with You.
I climbed right up some puffy clouds
til Heaven was in view.
It looked just like a castle!
It was high with many floors
and it seemed a million windows
overlooked the one huge door.
The door was gold and silver
and bright lights shined within.
Two boxes hung suspended there,
“Take a Prayer” and “Leave a Sin”.
Everywhere around me,
I saw people with white wings
and when I pushed the doorbell,
I heard angel voices sing.
Then the big door opened.
The kindest man stood there.
He said he’d be my tour guide
and to follow him upstairs.
Right inside the great big door,
I saw a handmade sign.
The lettering was very old
on wood of weathered pine.
The message was so simple.
It said only, “Welcome Home”
but that was enough to tell me,
here you'd never feel alone.
Each floor throughout the castle
was filled with happiness.
From the bottom to the top one,
I saw nothing but kindness.
Angels standing near the windows
stopped to hug and welcome me.
Others passing in the hallways
smiled and whispered quietly.
Each room on every floor there
had a sign above its door,
carved in ancient lettering
which said, “Always Room For More”.
When my tour was finished
and it was time to go,
I still had some questions left
that weren’t answered though.
Do just good kids go to Heaven?
Sometimes, I do naughty things.
Am I still a good girl, too?
Will I have angel’s wings?
My tour guide hugged me gently.
He said he thought I would
‘cause Heaven has so many rooms
and every child is good.
When I left the castle
and turned to wave goodbye,
an angel told me You had been
my Heavenly Tour Guide.
Dear Mommy up in heaven,
you’re always in my mind.
I wish that you could tell me
why you left so much behind.
You left your bunny slippers,
fuzzy pink with big long ears,
and when Daddy holds your picture
he’s sad and cries real tears.
Your clothes are in the bedroom,
you left your perfume, too,
and when I need you close to me
I go there - it smells like you.
You must hum a lot in heaven.
Daddy says he thinks you might.
Sometimes I think I hear you
when I shut my eyes real tight.
I miss your hugs and kisses,
you took most of them with you,
but I’m glad you made me save some
in my jammy pockets, too.
Me and Daddy miss and love you
and we don’t mean to make a fuss.
I guess you loved us both so much
that you left your stuff for us.
Did you ever wonder about dreaming?
How the pictures get in your head?
Why they’re only there when you’re sleeping?
Why they’re only there in your bed?
You can fly anywhere that you want to.
You can soar above houses and cars.
You can even go higher than that, if you want,
way, way up to the moon and the stars.
You can be someone great, someone special
who has magical powers to use
to save your brother from monsters -
or NOT save, if that’s what you choose.
Dreaming is different from movies.
You don’t get dressed up and go out.
And a dream can be different every night -
you make up what the dream is about.
It’s too bad dreaming's for bedtime,
but I guess that’s just how it must be.
If we walked around dreaming in daylight,
why would we ever need sleep?
Blame us for these who were cradled and rocked in our chaos;
Watching our sidelong watching, fearing our fear;
Playing their blind-man's-bluff in our gutted mansions,
Their follow-my-leader on a stair that ended in air.
Submitted by Stephen Fryer
Little Indian, Sioux, or Crow,
Little frosty Eskimo,
Little Turk or Japanee,
Oh! don't you wish that you were me?
You have seen the scarlet trees
And the lions over seas;
You have eaten ostrich eggs,
And turned the turtle off their legs.
Such a life is very fine,
But it's not so nice as mine:
You must often as you trod,
Have wearied NOT to be abroad.
You have curious things to eat,
I am fed on proper meat;
You must dwell upon the foam,
But I am safe and live at home.
Little Indian, Sioux or Crow,
Little frosty Eskimo,
Little Turk or Japanee,
Oh! don't you wish that you were me?
Little shadows, little shadows
Dancing on the chamber wall,
While I sit beside the hearthstone
Where the red flames rise and fall.
Caps and nightgowns, caps and nightgowns,
My three antic shadows wear;
And no sound they make in playing,
For the six small feet are bare.
Dancing gayly, dancing gayly,
To and fro all together,
Like a family of daisies
Blown about in windy weather;
Nimble fairies, nimble fairies,
Playing pranks in the warm glow,
While I sing the nursery ditties
Childish phantoms love and know.
Now what happens, now what happens?
One small shadow's tumbled down:
I can see it on the carpet
Softly rubbing its hurt crown.
No one whimpers, no one whimpers;
A brave-hearted sprite is this:
See! the others offer comfort
In a silent, shadowy kiss.
Hush! they're creeping; hush! they're creeping,
Up about my rocking-chair:
I can feel their loving fingers
Clasp my neck and touch my hair.
Little shadows, little shadows,
Take me captive, hold me tight,
As they climb and cling and whisper,
"Mother dear, good night! good night!"
Give Love to the children Children need love everyday
Give love to the children Guide them on their way
Love's like a burning flame consumes all that stands in the way
Love is the only power on earth to take all the hatred away
GIVE LOVE TO THE CHILDREN set the children free
To make their own decisions then they will clearly see
Love is the sun the moon and the stars love is a golden ring
Love is the one thing the whole world desires be it beggar or king
GIVE LOVE TO THE CHILDREN youth has not long to stay
Love is a long term investment the best you will find any day
Love like the rising sun takes all the darkness away
Our children will tell their children and their childrens children will say
Give love to the children they are our crock of gold
and if perchance they ever stray they will come back to the fold
Give love to the children the children of today
Give love to the children and love will come to stay.
Being glad is simple
and sometimes glad is great.
Sometimes glad is liking
almost everything on my plate.
I feel that way with birthdays.
Birthdays make me glad.
I like writing “I love you”
in cards for Mom and Dad.
But sometimes glad is hard to find,
like when angry came last week.
Glad was no where, pushed away,
and sad ran down my cheek.
Angry didn’t stay too long,
that’s good cause it felt bad...
when it was gone, then it made room
to put back my friend, glad!
God has pity on kindergarten children,
He pities school children -- less.
But adults he pities not at all.
He abandons them,
And sometimes they have to crawl on all fours
In the scorching sand
To reach the dressing station,
Streaming with blood.
But perhaps
He will have pity on those who love truly
And take care of them
And shade them
Like a tree over the sleeper on the public bench.
Perhaps even we will spend on them
Our last pennies of kindness
Inherited from mother,
So that their own happiness will protect us
Now and on other days.
Children, you are very little,
And your bones are very brittle;
If you would grow great and stately,
You must try to walk sedately.
You must still be bright and quiet,
And content with simple diet;
And remain, through all bewild'ring,
Innocent and honest children.
Happy hearts and happy faces,
Happy play in grassy places--
That was how in ancient ages,
Children grew to kings and sages.
But the unkind and the unruly,
And the sort who eat unduly,
They must never hope for glory--
Theirs is quite a different story!
Cruel children, crying babies,
All grow up as geese and gabies,
Hated, as their age increases,
By their nephews and their nieces.
There's a dear little home in Good-Children street -
My heart turneth fondly to-day
Where tinkle of tongues and patter of feet
Make sweetest of music at play;
Where the sunshine of love illumines each face
And warms every heart in that old-fashioned place.
For dear little children go romping about
With dollies and tin tops and drums,
And, my! how they frolic and scamper and shout
Till bedtime too speedily comes!
Oh, days they are golden and days they are fleet
With little folk living in Good-Children street.
See, here comes an army with guns painted red,
And swords, caps, and plumes of all sorts;
The captain rides gaily and proudly ahead
On a stick-horse that prances and snorts!
Oh, legions of soldiers you're certain to meet -
Nice make-believe soldiers - in Good-Children street.
And yonder Odette wheels her dolly about -
Poor dolly! I'm sure she is ill,
For one of her blue china eyes has dropped out
And her voice is asthmatic'ly shrill.
Then, too, I observe she is minus her feet,
Which causes much sorrow in Good-Children street.
'T is so the dear children go romping about
With dollies and banners and drums,
And I venture to say they are sadly put out
When an end to their jubilee comes:
Oh, days they are golden and days they are fleet
With little folk living in Good-Children street!
But when falleth night over river and town,
Those little folk vanish from sight,
And an angel all white from the sky cometh down
And guardeth the babes through the night,
And singeth her lullabies tender and sweet
To the dear little people in Good-Children Street.
Though elsewhere the world be o'erburdened with care,
Though poverty fall to my lot,
Though toil and vexation be always my share,
What care I - they trouble me not!
This thought maketh life ever joyous and Sweet:
There's a dear little home in Good-Children street.
Gramma's gone but not forgotten,
that's her apron hanging there.
It still hangs in Grampa's kitchen
sometimes he looks at it and stares.
When Gramma wore her apron
it was magical to see.
The pockets held such treasures
for the grandkids just like me.
Saw it shine up Grampa's fender once,
just as pretty as you please,
and it wiped my brother's cheek off
one time when he sneezed.
It took cookies from the oven
and it rushed to wipe a tear.
Got a grain of sand out of your eye,
and made a lap for the stories we'd hear.
It wiped spills up from the countertop
when she was baking pies,
a symbol of her love and care
and it showed, too, in her eyes.
Sometimes I'm sad to look at it
when I see my Grampa stare.
Gramma's gone but not forgotten.
That's her apron hanging there.
Daddy planted grass seeds
and up popped new green grass.
When mommy planted flower seeds,
pretty flowers came up fast.
I don’t understand it.
I planted my seeds too.
My spot has lots of sunshine.
I watered, but nothing grew.
I guess it’s something grownups know,
maybe kids just can’t plant seeds,
‘cause the bird seed that I planted
didn’t grow any birds for me.
A long time ago, a little girl
believed that she could fly.
She saw the movie, 'Peter Pan'
and decided she would try.
She thought her happy thoughts,
let out a rooster's crow,
and as she shouted, 'I believe! '
she crashed to the floor below.
She woke up in a hospital.
Mom and dad were by the bed.
It took six stitches to sew up
where she had conked her head.
The little girl learned a lesson.
Be careful in what you believe -
some things will always be pretend.
The little girl?  Yeah, it was me.
I love teeny tiny ants
and itchy bitsy fleas,
spiders, big and little,
and grouchy grumble bees,
butterflies that flutter by
and beetles when they run
from marching caterpillars.
I think bugs are fun.
Skeeters like to bite me,
but lightning bugs, they don’t,
and flies that get inside the house
could bite, but they won’t.
Silly racing centipedes
and slow and slimy slugs
are my very special favorites.
I
love
bugs.
I’m just going to sit here.
I won’t say a word.
I’ll be like the children
who are seen and not heard.
If I talk I’ll say something
I know I’ll regret,
‘cause I’m so mad at Sissy,
I may never forget.
She broke all my crayons,
then she threw them away,
and she blamed me for spilling
her milk yesterday.
I keep thinking about
what I learned when just small:
either say something nice,
or say nothing at all.
If I say what I want to say,
I might be heard,
so I’m just going to sit here
and not say a word.
I had eight birds hatched in one nest,
Four cocks there were, and hens the rest.
I nursed them up with pain and care,
Nor cost, nor labour did I spare,
Till at the last they felt their wing,
Mounted the trees, and learned to sing;
Chief of the brood then took his flight
To regions far and left me quite.
My mournful chirps I after send,
Till he return, or I do end:
Leave not thy nest, thy dam and sire,
Fly back and sing amidst this choir.
My second bird did take her flight,
And with her mate flew out of sight;
Southward they both their course did bend,
And seasons twain they there did spend,
Till after blown by southern gales,
They norward steered with filled sails.
A prettier bird was no where seen,
Along the beach among the treen.
I have a third of colour white,
On whom I placed no small delight;
Coupled with mate loving and true,
Hath also bid her dam adieu;
And where Aurora first appears,
She now hath perched to spend her years.
One to the academy flew
To chat among that learned crew;
Ambition moves still in his breast
That he might chant above the rest
Striving for more than to do well,
That nightingales he might excel.
My fifth, whose down is yet scarce gone,
Is 'mongst the shrubs and bushes flown,
And as his wings increase in strength,
On higher boughs he'll perch at length.
My other three still with me nest,
Until they're grown, then as the rest,
Or here or there they'll take their flight,
As is ordained, so shall they light.
If birds could weep, then would my tears
Let others know what are my fears
Lest this my brood some harm should catch,
And be surprised for want of watch,
Whilst pecking corn and void of care,
They fall un'wares in fowler's snare,
Or whilst on trees they sit and sing,
Some untoward boy at them do fling,
Or whilst allured with bell and glass,
The net be spread, and caught, alas.
Or lest by lime-twigs they be foiled,
Or by some greedy hawks be spoiled.
O would my young, ye saw my breast,
And knew what thoughts there sadly rest,
Great was my pain when I you fed,
Long did I keep you soft and warm,
And with my wings kept off all harm,
My cares are more and fears than ever,
My throbs such now as 'fore were never.
Alas, my birds, you wisdom want,
Of perils you are ignorant;
Oft times in grass, on trees, in flight,
Sore accidents on you may light.
O to your safety have an eye,
So happy may you live and die.
Meanwhile my days in tunes I'll spend,
Till my weak lays with me shall end.
In shady woods I'll sit and sing,
And things that past to mind I'll bring.
Once young and pleasant, as are you,
But former toys (no joys) adieu.
My age I will not once lament,
But sing, my time so near is spent.
And from the top bough take my flight
Into a country beyond sight,
Where old ones instantly grow young,
And there with seraphims set song;
No seasons cold, nor storms they see;
But spring lasts to eternity.
When each of you shall in your nest
Among your young ones take your rest,
In chirping language, oft them tell,
You had a dam that loved you well,
That did what could be done for young,
And nursed you up till you were strong,
And 'fore she once would let you fly,
She showed you joy and misery;
Taught what was good, and what was ill,
What would save life, and what would kill.
Thus gone, amongst you I may live,
And dead, yet speak, and counsel give:
Farewell, my birds, farewell adieu,
I happy am, if well with you.
Get your ice cold glass of lemonade!
Hurry, before it's gone.
We made it just this morning.
See the table that it's on?
We promise that you'll like it
and there's sugar in it, too -
not like it was the other day
when mom and dad said Ewww.
Get your ice cold glass of lemonade!
Boy grownups sure are funny -
they smile a lot at little kids
who are trying to make money.
Thank you, maam, and thank you, sir,
you've helped us out a bunch.
Sissy, let's go make some more.
It's almost time for lunch.
Get your ice cold glass of lemonade!
Only fifteen cents a glass!
We've got to make more money
and we've got to make it fast.
Daddy said it wouldn't work,
that people wouldn't stop.
They'd hurry right on past us
and then they'd laugh a lot.
One last glass of lemonade!
This was so much fun!
Let's get this table put away
and then we've got to run.
Sissy look!  It's snowing!
But that will be all right...
now we have money for presents
and Santa Claus comes tonight.
Mommy, Daddy, how I miss you
and I know you're missing me.
There are windows here in heaven
and every day I look and see
my toys all in the toybox
and my dolls up on the shelf
but I can't pull them in my wagon now
nor hold them to myself.
My little rocker's empty
and your arms feel empty too.
I can see the sadness in your face.
Mommy, Daddy, I love you.
My music box is quiet
but I don't need to hear it play.
Mommy, Daddy, it's not needed now -
angels here sing every day.
Please don't worry that I'm lonely,
there are children everywhere.
We are all His little angels
and there's so much love up here.
Mommy, Daddy, please don't cry for me,
heaven's such a lovely place.
God says you did your very best
and your love shows in my face.
Mommy, Daddy, when you need me
just look up and say a prayer.
I will see you through the windows
and I'll hear your voice up here.
listen children
keep this in the place
you have for keeping
always
keep it all ways
we have never hated black
listen
we have been ashamed
hopeless tired mad
but always
all ways
we loved us
we have always loved each other
children all ways
pass it on
Little ants marching in single file
crossing my smooth window pane.
How do they know who to follow?
Do they each have their own name?
Where are they going in such a rush?
Have they nothing else better to do?
I watch them, my nose to the window,
and it looks like they’re watching me, too.
In my world, everyone’s different
and most people go their own way.
In their world, they follow a leader
and the little guys all look the same.
I like making choices in my life
not following someone all the time.
I wouldn’t like living in their world.
Are they wondering if they would like mine?
I love jelly beans,
all but the black ones, they’re yucky.
Red ones trade best.
Orange is good.
Green tastes even better!
(all but the black ones, they’re yucky) .
White is like vanilla.
Sissy likes the white.
Purples bite, but I still like,
all but the black ones, they’re yucky.
I like pink, but it’s for girls.
Yellow is my favorite.
I love jelly beans,
all but the black ones, they’re yucky.
Little sisters are adorable.
We've tried to tell ours, though...
you can have a lot of 'clothes',
but one dress is not a 'clo'.
Mama, am I pretty?
'Why do you ask', she said.
She held me gently to her,
and kissed me lightly on my head.
'Your clothes are neatly ironed.
Your face and hands are clean.
You’re such a sweet child, little one,
what does your question mean? '
Mama, am I pretty?
I really need to know.
Am I pretty like the other girls
at school where we all go?
'You have a very loving heart,
You’re gentle, kind and good.
Your friends all think the world of you,
anybody would.'
But, Mama, am I pretty?
Sometimes kids point or stare.
I’ve got these real thick glasses
that I wish I didn’t wear.
Mama said my time would come,
be patient and I’d see.
The things that really matter
were there, inside of me.
But, Mama!  Am I pretty?
(I didn’t mean to shout) .
Then Mama smiled and told me,
'Sweetheart, yes, inside and out.'
An old broken doll
remembers her first Christmas
many children ago.
Now, only the rain
plays with her hair.
(Christmas Poem for Tilly)
My daddy calls me Will-dog.
PaPa calls me chief.
I’m always baby brother
to my sister - oh, good grief!
My Nana calls me punkin’.
Mama calls me little man.
I’m boo-boo bear to Grammy,
geez, I wonder WHO I am.
The mailman says, “Hey, sport! ”
Auntie calls me precious lamb
and when I act real silly,
MiMi says I’m quite a ham.
I guess it’s like my sneakers.
Some call them tennis shoes.
Both names mean the same thing.
It doesn’t matter which I use.
Or maybe like a puppy dog,
some people call them hounds.
It doesn’t really matter,
‘cause they both make barking sounds.
Maybe it’s not so awful
they don’t all call me the same.
I feel kinda-sorta special
that I have so many names!
There once was a monkey named Mike
who headed out west on his bike.
He soon was stopped cold
with no token for toll
and the tollkeeper said, “Take a hike.”
But the monkey named Mike didn’t hike
and took a new route with his bike.
When one tire went flat,
a mechanic saw that
and told Mike his bike found a spike.
The mechanic then fixed the bike
and said to the monkey named Mike,
“Hey, Mike, you should FLY
and never again try
to ride your bike, Mike.  See the spike? ”
Monkey see,
monkey do,
I used to want
to be one, too.
He doesn't have a bedtime.
Bet he doesn't eat green beans!
Monkeys get to play around
the whole day long, it seems.
He doesn't have to brush his teeth
or have to comb his hair.
If he had toys I'll bet his dad
wouldn't make him have to share.
Bet he doesn't 'scuse me'
after each and every sneeze.
And you won't hear him 'thank you'
after every single 'please'.
But Mommy said that monkeys
don't ever watch TV...
that's when I decided
I'd rather just stay me.
There's a monster in my house!
It came in a great big box.
Mommy says it isn't so,
but something ate my socks.
I used to have a full sock drawer,
with red ones and some blue.
I even had some white ones,
'cause I wear white socks, too.
There's a monster in my house!
It came in a great big box
and I must make it angry
or it wouldn't eat my socks.
It lives around here, somewhere.
(whisper)    Shhhh!  I hope it's not around!
'Cause if you ever wake it up,
it makes such awful sounds.
Most times, it says, 'Yum-Yum! Yum-Yum! '
Sometimes, it just goes 'swish'.
But, I know it eats my socks up
without a spoon or dish.
Mom says they're underneath the bed
or spread around the floor.
(well the monster musta' burped 'em there
when she opened up the door) .
There's a monster in my house!
It came in a great big box!
Mom says it's just the washer...
but it's a monster that eats my socks!
Today I'm cookin' the dinner.
I stir in all the stuff that I should
'cause I know just how to make it
so EVERYthing I cook tastes good.
I'm smushin' meatloaf without any onions
and veggies without any beans.
See how I squished the smashed 'tatoes?
Right by the macaronis and cheese.
Next I will make ice cream salad.
(Cookin' dinner is really fun work) .
Here's shovels and buckets of jello
and marshmallow pies for dessert.
Uh oh... it's startin' to rain.
Now mom will bring me inside...
The rain sure is wreckin' my cookin'
but rain will make MORE mud outside!
My friend, Sherla, was hard to see
for Mom and Dad, not me.
My imaginary friend was all I had.
I’m an only child, you see.
Most times Sherla was really good.
We did puzzles, read, and played.
We made our beds and cleaned our room
ALMOST every single day.
But sometimes Sherla spilled my milk,
sometimes she wrote on walls,
sometimes she told me not to come
when Mom and Daddy called.
I had to have a talk with her
about being a naughty kid,
cause I’m the one who got time out
for all the things she did.
It’s different now, I go to school
and I have friends everywhere.
Sherla doesn’t come here now
and I thought I she didn’t care.
Mom told me Sherla’s ‘special’
cause only I could see,
but now she lives with someone else
who needs her more than me.
I have a shadow hooked to me.
Sometimes he's big.
Sometimes he's small.
Sometimes he isn't there at all.
He doesn't seem to like the rain.
(Maybe thunder scares him, too) .
He's gone from me on days like that
'cause there isn't much to do.
But if it's really sunny out,
he doesn't like to hide.
He's hooked right there beside me
and we play all day outside.
The toothfairy took my tooth lath night
and left thome money, too.
But now I can't thay wordth too well
and I don't know what I'll do.
What if my friendth all laugh at me
becauth I thpeak like thith?
What if they won't come over
and thereth no one to play with?
Hey gueth what?  My friend juth called.
He lotht hith tooth today!
You know what elth?  He thoundth like me
and he wanth to come and play!
Night-night moon
Night-night stars
Night-night noisy
trucks and cars.
Night-night sand box
Night-night toys
Night-night other
girls and boys.
Night-night mom
Night-night dad
Night-night Boogie Man
who's not bad.
It's time to go to sleep now,
most all my night nights said.
Night-night blankie
Night-night bed.
I made a paper Valentine
all red and edged with lace.
And on my paper Valentine,
I drew a pretty face.
I painted on two big blue eyes
and then a great big grin
and knew it wouldn't be complete
without a dimpled chin.
I love you, paper valentine,
and just between us two,
I hope someday when I grow up
I'll look as sweet as you.
I don't have a little brother.
I don't have a sister, too.
It's just me and Mom and Daddy
but there's lots of things to do.
Sometimes we go on picnics
and play ball until it's dark.
Sometimes we play on slides and swings
when we go to the park.
We can go and see a movie,
other days go to the beach
where I can get sand dollars
and Daddy helps when I can't reach.
I wish I had a brother.
I'd like a sister, too,
but it's me and Mom and Daddy
and there's lots of things to do.
Mom’s car has three foot pedals.
I think I’m gonna ask her -
Since daddy’s car has only two,
does her car pedal faster?
Mommy's on the couch.
Daddy's in his chair.
I'm sitting in a corner on a stool...
they put me here
'cause I did something naughty
that I'm not supposed to do.
I invented Permagosh
mixing things with their shampoo.
First, a real long worm of toothpaste,
then then a cloud of shaving cream,
then two glugs of mouthwash
('cause I like the color, green) .
I stirred it in a mixing bowl.
Boy, it smelled real good!
It was even looking better
than I ever thought it would.
... could it be a cure for cancer?
... take the itch from skeeter bites?
... or maybe heal a sunburn
when it hurts to sleep at night?
Two shakes of baby powder
made it way too hard to stir,
so I added Mommy's perfume.
Permagosh smelled just like her!
Then the bowl tipped over...
Permagosh was on the floor,
and when I turned around,
Mom and Dad were by the door.
Now Mommy's on the couch.
Daddy's in his chair.
I'm sitting in a corner on a stool...
they put me here.
I love to be a cowboy
and ride my horse around the room.
He's black and white and he won't bite
(he's really Mommy's broom) .
I shoot my guns at bad guys
when I ride down the trail.
(they're really just my dog and cat
and my closet is the jail) .
I ride and rope wild horses, too,
and bring them to my camp
(it's really just the 'lectric cord)
...uh oh, I broke a lamp!
Oops!  Here comes the Sheriff
and it looks like he is mad!
I'd better clean this mess up!
('cause the Sheriff's really Dad) .
I think of all the things I have,
I like my pockets best.
Pockets hold just everything
and they give your hands a rest.
I never know just what I'll find,
what special things I'll see
to put inside my pockets ~~
these are treasures, just for me.
When Mommy's doing laundry though,
she says sometimes it's scary
finding rocks and frogs and beetles
and my spiders that are hairy.
I like saying, spring has sprung.
I like the way it sounds.
And spring brings with it lots of rain,
(God's wringing out his clouds) .
Yay, rain means puddle stompin'!
After rain, they're everywhere.
No shoes or socks, I'm barefoot!
I get wet, but I don't care.
I don't think Mommy likes it
'cause I get muddy (ewwww) ,
but puddles just can't help it,
somehow mud gets in there, too.
Uh oh... here comes Mommy.
Hey, look at Mommy run!
Mommy's puddle stompin', too?
Now it's REALLY fun!
Accursed from their birth they be
Who seek to find monogamy,
Pursuing it from bed to bed-
I think they would be better dead.
Parents sure have lots of rules,
things to do and not do.
I’ll be glad when I get big
and growing up is gone through.
I won’t need a dentist
or a barber for my hair,
and I’ll go buy a chocolate cake
that I won’t have to share.
Maybe, I’ll stay up all night,
eat junk and watch TV.
If I want, I’ll sleep all day.
No more rules for me!
“How will you get up for work?
You might get fired”, Mom said.
“You won’t make any money
by sleeping late in bed.”
Why would I need money?
Who needs money anyway?
Rules are bad.  When I grow up
I’ll do fun things all day.
How would you pay your rent?
How will you buy a car?
How would you buy your big-boy clothes?
(you’ll be bigger than you are) .
You’ll have to buy the food you eat.
You’ll have to have a phone.
How will you pay the heating bill?
‘Cause surely you’ll buy a home.
I hadn’t thought of all of that.
I can’t do that stuff.
It doesn’t sound like fun at all
and I don’t know enough.
Mom said as I get bigger,
the rules get bigger, too,
but when we start at my age,
growing up is fun to do.
She said people grow like houses,
step by step and brick by brick.
That’s the way we all grow up
and having rules is part of it.
I'm not afraid of thunder storms.
I've figured it out, you see.
I even smile when lightning comes
'cause God's taking a picture of ME.
Today I found some scissors
by my Mommy's sewing chair.
I learned scissors can cut paper
and scissors can cut hair...
I learned scissors can cut many things,
lots of things you shouldn't oughta.
But the best thing that I learned today
is scissors can't cut water.
My heart leaps up when I behold
A rainbow in the sky;
Contrariwise, my blood runs cold
When little boys go by.
For little boys as little boys,
No special hate I carry,
But now and then they grow to men,
And when they do, they marry.
No matter how they tarry,
Eventually they marry.
And, swine among the pearls,
They marry little girls.
Oh, somewhere, somewhere, an infant plays,
With parents who feed and clothe him.
Their lips are sticky with pride and praise,
But I have begun to loathe him.
Yes, I loathe with loathing shameless
This child who to me is nameless.
This bachelor child in his carriage
Gives never a thought to marriage,
But a person can hardly say knife
Before he will hunt him a wife.
I never see an infant (male),
A-sleeping in the sun,
Without I turn a trifle pale
And think is he the one?
Oh, first he'll want to crop his curls,
And then he'll want a pony,
And then he'll think of pretty girls,
And holy matrimony.
A cat without a mouse
Is he without a spouse.
Oh, somewhere he bubbles bubbles of milk,
And quietly sucks his thumbs.
His cheeks are roses painted on silk,
And his teeth are tucked in his gums.
But alas the teeth will begin to grow,
And the bubbles will cease to bubble;
Given a score of years or so,
The roses will turn to stubble.
He'll sell a bond, or he'll write a book,
And his eyes will get that acquisitive look,
And raging and ravenous for the kill,
He'll boldly ask for the hand of Jill.
This infant whose middle
Is diapered still
Will want to marry My daughter Jill.
Oh sweet be his slumber and moist his middle!
My dreams, I fear, are infanticiddle.
A fig for embryo Lohengrins!
I'll open all his safety pins,
I'll pepper his powder, and salt his bottle,
And give him readings from Aristotle.
Sand for his spinach I'll gladly bring,
And Tabasco sauce for his teething ring.
Then perhaps he'll struggle though fire and water
To marry somebody else's daughter.
My brother's in a wheelchair
and he can't jump or run
but I can throw a ball to him
to catch and we have fun.
He can't do a lot of things
that other kids can do.
He needs help getting dressed
and he can't tie his shoes.
Mommy told me it's called 'special'
when a child is born that way.
I said I could have told her that...
My brother's special every day.
On the unbreathing sides of hills
they play, a specklike girl and boy,
alone, but near a specklike house.
The Sun's suspended eye
blinks casually, and then they wade
gigantic waves of light and shade.
A dancing yellow spot, a pup,
attends them. Clouds are piling up;
a storm piles up behind the house.
The children play at digging holes.
The ground is hard; they try to use
one of their father's tools,
a mattock with a broken haft
the two of them can scarcely lift.
It drops and clangs. Their laughter spreads
effulgence in the thunderheads,
Weak flashes of inquiry
direct as is the puppy's bark.
But to their little, soluble,
unwarrantable ark,
apparently the rain's reply
consists of echolalia,
and Mother's voice, ugly as sin,
keeps calling to them to come in.
Children, the threshold of the storm
has slid beneath your muddy shoes;
wet and beguiled, you stand among
the mansions you may choose
out of a bigger house than yours,
whose lawfulness endures.
It's soggy documents retain
your rights in rooms of falling rain.
I know our tongues have jobs to do,
licking lips or tasting food.
They also help us say our words
and see if our teeth are smooth.
After that, a tongue gets stupid,
stupid, stupid tongue...
Tongues don't seem to listen
and tongues act really dumb.
When we have a sharp loose tooth,
we tell our tongue to stay away
because it's really sharp right there
but tongues just won't behave.
Your tongue gets sore and it hurts to talk.
Your brain says, 'Tongue, don't take that walk! '
but tongues won't listen (or tongues don't care) ,
and pretty soon it goes back there,
the more it does, the more it hurts.
It just won't listen and I don't know
why it sneaks right back
when your brain says 'No'.
I know my tongue is helpful
and I'm glad I do have one...
but why are tongues so stupid?
Why are tongues so dumb?
Thank God for little children,
Bright flowers by earth's wayside,
The dancing, joyous lifeboats
Upon life's stormy tide.
Thank God for little children;
When our skies are cold and gray,
They come as sunshine to our hearts,
And charm our cares away.
I almost think the angels,
Who tend life's garden fair,
Drop down the sweet wild blossoms
That bloom around us here.
It seems a breath of heaven
Round many a cradle lies,
And every little baby
Brings a message from the skies.
Dear mothers, guard these jewels.
As sacred offerings meet,
A wealth of household treasures
To lay at Jesus' feet.
In Daddy's bedroom down the hall,
there's a special place, The Birthday Wall.
Every year about this time,
he hugs me then he draws my line.
We look at where I used to be
when I was small and only three.
Much higher, then, the one for four,
then five, then six, and now one more.
On the wall two names I see,
my little sister's, then there's me.
Sissy's line comes to my nose.
To look at mine, she's on tiptoes.
Sometimes when I am feeling small,
I go down to see The Birthday Wall
to see how big I'll be next time
Daddy hugs me and he draws my line.
Out upon the sand-dunes thrive the coarse long grasses;
Herons standing knee-deep in the brackish pool;
Overhead the sunset fire and flame amasses
And the moon to eastward rises pale and cool.
Rose and green around her, silver-gray and pearly,
Chequered with the black rooks flying home to bed;
For, to wake at daybreak, birds must couch them early:
And the day's a long one since the dawn was red.
On the chilly lakelet, in that pleasant gloaming,
See the sad swans sailing: they shall have no rest:
Never a voice to greet them save the bittern's booming
Where the ghostly sallows sway against the West.
'Sister,' saith the gray swan, 'Sister, I am weary,'
Turning to the white swan wet, despairing eyes;
'O' she saith, 'my young one! O' she saith, 'my dearie !'
Casts her wings about him with a storm of cries.
Woe for Lir's sweet children whom their vile stepmother
Glamoured with her witch-spells for a thousand years;
Died their father raving, on his throne another,
Blind before the end came from the burning tears.
Long the swans have wandered over lake and river;
Gone is all the glory of the race of Lir:
Gone and long forgotten like a dream of fever:
But the swans remember the sweet days that were.
Hugh, the black and white swan with the beauteous feathers,
Fiachra, the black swan with the emerald breast,
Conn, the youngest, dearest, sheltered in all weathers,
Him his snow-white sister loves the tenderest.
These her mother gave her as she lay a-dying;
To her faithful keeping; faithful hath she been,
With her wings spread o'er them when the tempest's crying,
And her songs so hopeful when the sky's serene.
Other swans have nests made 'mid the reeds and rushes,
Lined with downy feathers where the cygnets sleep
Dreaming, if a bird dreams, till the daylight blushes,
Then they sail out swiftly on the current deep.
With the proud swan-father, tall, and strong, and stately,
And the mild swan-mother, grave with household cares,
All well-born and comely, all rejoicing greatly:
Full of honest pleasure is a life like theirs.
But alas ! for my swans with the human nature,
Sick with human longings, starved for human ties,
With their hearts all human cramped to a bird's stature.
And the human weeping in the bird's soft eyes.
Never shall my swans build nests in some green river,
Never fly to Southward in the autumn gray,
Rear no tender children, love no mates for ever;
Robbed alike of bird's joys and of man's are they.
Babbles Conn the youngest, 'Sister, I remember
At my father's palace how I went in silk,
Ate the juicy deer-flesh roasted from the ember,
Drank from golden goblets my child's draught of milk.
Once I rode a-hunting, laughed to see the hurry,
Shouted at the ball-play, on the lake did row;
You had for your beauty gauds that shone so rarely.'
'Peace' saith Fionnuala, 'that was long ago.'
'Sister,' saith Fiachra, 'well do I remember
How the flaming torches lit the banquet-hall,
And the fire leapt skyward in the mid-December,
And among the rushes slept our staghounds tall.
By our father's right hand you sat shyly gazing,
Smiling half and sighing, with your eyes a-glow,
As the bards sang loudly all your beauty praising. '
'Peace,' saith Fionnuala, 'that was long ago.'
'Sister,' then saith Hugh 'most do I remember
One I called my brother, one, earth's goodliest man,
Strong as forest oaks are where the wild vines clamber,
First at feast or hunting, in the battle's van.
Angus, you were handsome, wise, and true, and tender,
Loved by every comrade, feared by every foe:
Low, low, lies your beauty, all forgot your splendour.'
'Peace,' saith Fionnuala, 'that was long ago.'
Dews are in the clear air and the roselight paling;
Over sands and sedges shines the evening star;
And the moon's disc lonely high in heaven is sailing;
Silvered all the spear-heads of the rushes are.
Housed warm are all things as the night grows colder,
Water-fowl and sky-fowl dreamless in the nest;
But the swans go drifting, drooping wing and shoulder
Cleaving the still water where the fishes rest.
For those that never know the light,
The darkness is a sullen thing;
And they, the Children of the Night,
Seem lost in Fortune's winnowing.
But some are strong and some are weak, --
And there's the story. House and home
Are shut from countless hearts that seek
World-refuge that will never come.
And if there be no other life,
And if there be no other chance
To weigh their sorrow and their strife
Than in the scales of circumstance,
'T were better, ere the sun go down
Upon the first day we embark,
In life's imbittered sea to drown,
Than sail forever in the dark.
But if there be a soul on earth
So blinded with its own misuse
Of man's revealed, incessant worth,
Or worn with anguish, that it views
No light but for a mortal eye,
No rest but of a mortal sleep,
No God but in a prophet's lie,
No faith for "honest doubt" to keep;
If there be nothing, good or bad,
But chaos for a soul to trust, --
God counts it for a soul gone mad,
And if God be God, He is just.
And if God be God, He is Love;
And though the Dawn be still so dim,
It shows us we have played enough
With creeds that make a fiend of Him.
There is one creed, and only one,
That glorifies God's excellence;
So cherish, that His will be done,
The common creed of common sense.
It is the crimson, not the gray,
That charms the twilight of all time;
It is the promise of the day
That makes the starry sky sublime;
It is the faith within the fear
That holds us to the life we curse; --
So let us in ourselves revere
The Self which is the Universe!
Let us, the Children of the Night,
Put off the cloak that hides the scar!
Let us be Children of the Light,
And tell the ages what we are!
Down inside this grownup
lives the child that used to be.
When I look in my mirror,
she stares right back at me.
Now that I’m a grownup,
it’s an older face I see,
but the child’s still there, just hiding,
way down deep inside of me.
Sometimes we work together,
that little girl and me.
She comes up from her hiding place
and we write poetry.
I like being grownup
and I wouldn’t wanna swap.
Well... maybe a little younger face
with no grey hair on top.
The day the circus came to town,
my favorite was the circus clown
with his great big shoes
and funny clothes,
a painted face,
and a big red nose.
A giant smile was painted there,
with children laughing, everywhere.
I wondered as I
looked at him,
was he frowning 'neath
his painted grin?
Now when I am feeling down,
I think about that circus clown
with his great big shoes
and funny clothes,
a painted face,
and big red nose.
I put a smile on, anyway
and soon, my frown just fades away
like the day the circus
came to town
and I learned it watching
the circus clown.
Do ye hear the children weeping, O my brothers,
Ere the sorrow comes with years?
They are leaning their young heads against their mothers---
And that cannot stop their tears.
The young lambs are bleating in the meadows;
The young birds are chirping in the nest;
The young fawns are playing with the shadows;
The young flowers are blowing toward the west---
But the young, young children, O my brothers,
They are weeping bitterly!---
They are weeping in the playtime of the others
In the country of the free.
Do you question the young children in the sorrow,
Why their tears are falling so?---
The old man may weep for his to-morrow
Which is lost in Long Ago---
The old tree is leafless in the forest---
The old year is ending in the frost---
The old wound, if stricken, is the sorest---
The old hope is hardest to be lost:
But the young, young children, O my brothers,
Do you ask them why they stand
Weeping sore before the bosoms of their mothers,
In our happy Fatherland?
They look up with their pale and sunken faces,
And their looks are sad to see,
For the man's grief abhorrent, draws and presses
Down the cheeks of infancy---
'Your old earth,' they say, 'is very dreary;'
'Our young feet,' they say, 'are very weak!
Few paces have we taken, yet are wearyÑ
Our grave-rest is very far to seek.
Ask the old why they weep, and not the children,
For the outside earth is cold,---
And we young ones stand without, in our bewildering,
And the graves are for the old.
'True,' say the young children, 'it may happen
That we die before our time.
Little Alice died last year---the grave is shapen
Like a snowball, in the rime.
We looked into the pit prepared to take her---
Was no room for any work in the close clay:
From the sleep wherein she lieth none will wake her
Crying, 'Get up, little Alice! it is day.'
If you listen by that grave, in sun and shower,
With your ear down, little Alice never cries!---
Could we see her face, be sure we should not know her,
For the smile has time for growing in her eyes---
And merry go her moments, lulled and stilled in
The shroud, by the kirk-chime!
It is good when it happens,' say the children,
'That we die before our time.'
Alas, alas, the children! they are seeking
Death in life, as best to have!
They are binding up their hearts away from breaking,
With a cerement from the grave.
Go out, children, from the mine and from the city---
Sing out, children, as the little thrushes do---
Pluck your handfuls of the meadow-cowslips pretty---
Laugh aloud, to feel your fingers let them through!
But they answer, 'Are your cowslips of the meadows
Like our weeds anear the mine?
Leave us quiet in the dark of the coal-shadows,
From your pleasures fair and fine!
'For oh,' say the children, 'we are weary,
And we cannot run or leap---
If we cared for any meadows, it were merely
To drop down in them and sleep.
Our knees tremble sorely in the stooping---
We fall upon our faces, trying to go;
And, underneath our heavy eyelids drooping,
The reddest flower would look as pale as snow.
For, all day, we drag our burden tiring,
Through the coal-dark, underground---
Or, all day, we drive the wheels of iron
In the factories, round and round.
'For, all day, the wheels are droning, turning,---
Their wind comes in our faces,---
Till our hearts turn,---our head, with pulses burning,
And the walls turn in their places---
Turns the sky in the high window blank and reeling---
Turns the long light that droppeth down the wall---
Turn the black flies that crawl along the ceiling---
All are turning, all the day, and we with all.---
And, all day, the iron wheels are droning;
And sometimes we could pray,
'O ye wheels,' (breaking out in a mad moaning)
'Stop! be silent for to-day!' '
Ay! be silent! Let them hear each other breathing
For a moment, mouth to mouth---
Let them touch each other's hands, in a fresh wreathing
Of their tender human youth!
Let them feel that this cold metallic motion
Is not all the life God fashions or reveals---
Let them prove their inward souls against the notion
That they live in you, os under you, O wheels!---
Still, all day, the iron wheels go onward,
Grinding life down from its mark;
And the children's souls, which God is calling sunward,
Spin on blindly in the dark.
Now, tell the poor young children, O my brothers,
To look up to Him and pray---
So the blessed One, who blesseth all the others,
Will bless them another day.
They answer, 'Who is God that He should hear us,
White the rushing of the iron wheels is stirred?
When we sob aloud, the human creatures near us
Pass by, hearing not, or answer not a word!
And we hear not (for the wheels in their resounding)
Strangers speaking at the door:
Is it likely God, with angels singing round Him,
Hears our weeping any more?
'Two words, indeed, of praying we remember,
And at midnight's hour of harm,---
'Our Father,' looking upward in the chamber,
We say softly for a charm.
We know no other words except 'Our Father,'
And we think that, in some pause of angels' song,
God may pluck them with the silence sweet to gather,
And hold both within His right hand which is strong.
'Our Father!' If He heard us, He would surely
(For they call Him good and mild)
Answer, smiling down the steep world very purely,
'Come and rest with me, my child.'
'But no!' say the children, weeping faster,
'He is speechless as a stone;
And they tell us, of His image is the master
Who commands us to work on.
Go to!' say the children,---'Up in Heaven,
Dark, wheel-like, turning clouds are all we find.
Do not mock us; grief has made us unbelieving---
We look up for God, but tears have made us blind.'
Do you hear the children weeping and disproving,
O my brothers, what ye preach?
For God's possible is taught by His world's loving---
And the children doubt of each.
And well may the children weep before you;
They are weary ere they run;
They have never seen the sunshine, nor the glory
Which is brighter than the sun:
They know the grief of man, but not the wisdom;
They sink in man's despair, without its calm---
Are slaves, without the liberty in Christdom,---
Are martyrs, by the pang without the palm,---
Are worn, as if with age, yet unretrievingly
No dear remembrance keep,---
Are orphans of the earthly love and heavenly:
Let them weep! let them weep!
They look up, with their pale and sunken faces,
And their look is dread to see,
For they mind you of their angels in their places,
With eyes meant for Deity;---
'How long,' they say, 'how long, O cruel nation,
Will you stand, to move the world, on a child's heart,
Stifle down with a mailed heel its palpitation,
And tread onward to your throne amid the mart?
Our blood splashes upward, O our tyrants,
And your purple shows yo}r path;
But the child's sob curseth deeper in the silence
Than the strong man in his wrath!'
There's a lighthouse on an island
built on boulders in the sea.
A home to no one anymore,
and it's beautiful to me.
The waves come crashing, sending spray.
their salty drops rain down
blessing me and other people
and the buildings in the town.
The lighthouse wakes at evening time
and its beacon comes around
protecting all the ships out there
so they don't run aground.
I sit and send my wishes
way up high on seagull wings
and then pretend that they'll come true
on notes the lighthouse sings.
That lighthouse must be magic.
I hear it call to me
from its bed of boulders
on an island in the sea.
I dreamed I grew a money tree
outside in my yard.
My job was to care for it
and I worked very hard.
I saw that it was watered.
It grew so straight and tall
and when the money ripened
I picked it in the fall.
The flowers were green dollar bills,
the seeds inside were coins,
and others grew and glittered
where all the branches joined.
On windy days I stood below
and held a great big bucket.
Other days I climbed right up
to find one ripe and pluck it.
People say that money
doesn't really grow on trees.
I know. I only wish it did
just like in my dreams.
Today I saw a rainbow
with bright colors in the sky.
I couldn’t see its start or end,
just its middle, way up high.
Mom said that it’s God’s promise,
that the world will still go on,
and He always will forgive us
though sometimes we do wrong.
I guess I understand it
and I’m glad He thinks that way.
I just wish He’d paint His rainbows
up there every single day.
Gee, Great Grampa was an artist.
We have his paintings everywhere.
He died a long, long time ago.
Is he helping God up there?
That rainbow sure was pretty
and they mostly look the same,
but Great Grampa should tell God...
He should always sign His name.
Daddy said to Mom and me,
'Good night, I'm going to bed.
I'm sleepy and the Sandman
has been dancing on my head.'
(I don't think I like this Sandman.
Why'd he do that to my dad?)
and then I asked my mommy,
'Is the Sandman someone bad? '
Mom smiled and said, 'Don't worry.
The Sandman's just pretend.'
...but I'll sleep with one eye open
just in case he comes again.
Snow was flaking all around
then gently piling on the ground.
Just tiny puffs when floating free,
but stuck together, I could see
it's like one voice that singing for us
or a lot, like in a chorus.
I rolled some up and stacked it high
to make a happy snowman guy.
I'm glad it's that way just with snow
and that's not how we children grow,
'cause on a warm and sunny day,
my snowman slowly melts away.
As he melts, he gets so thin.
I wish, like me, that he had skin.
O'erwhelming sorrow now demands my song:
From death the overwhelming sorrow sprung.
What flowing tears? What hearts with grief opprest?
What sighs on sighs heave the fond parent's breast?
The brother weeps, the hapless sisters join
Th' increasing woe, and swell the crystal brine;
The poor, who once his gen'rous bounty fed,
Droop, and bewail their benefactor dead.
In death the friend, the kind companion lies,
And in one death what various comfort dies!
Th' unhappy mother sees the sanguine rill
Forget to flow, and nature's wheels stand still,
But see from earth his spirit far remov'd,
And know no grief recalls your best-belov'd:
He, upon pinions swifter than the wind,
Has left mortality's sad scenes behind
For joys to this terrestrial state unknown,
And glories richer than the monarch's crown.
Of virtue's steady course the prize behold!
What blissful wonders to his mind unfold!
But of celestial joys I sing in vain:
Attempt not, muse, the too advent'rous strain.
No more in briny show'rs, ye friends around,
Or bathe his clay, or waste them on the ground:
Still do you weep, still wish for his return?
How cruel thus to wish, and thus to mourn?
No more for him the streams of sorrow pour,
But haste to join him on the heav'nly shore,
On harps of gold to tune immortal lays,
And to your God immortal anthems raise.
In the land of Wu the mulberry leaves are green,
And thrice the silkworms have gone to sleep.
In East Luh where my family stay,
I wonder who is sowing those fields of ours.
I cannot be back in time for the spring doings,
Yet I can help nothing, traveling on the river.
The south wind blowing wafts my homesick spirit
And carries it up to the front of our familiar tavern.
There I see a peach tree on the east side of the house
With thick leaves and branches waving in the blue mist.
It is the tree I planted before my parting three years ago.
The peach tree has grown now as tall as the tavern roof,
While I have wandered about without returning.
Ping-yang, my pretty daughter, I see you stand
By the peach tree and pluck a flowering branch.
You pluck the flowers, but I am not there
How your tears flow like a stream of water!
My little son, Po-chin, grown up to your sister's shoulders,
You come out with her under the peach tree,
But who is there to pat you on the back?
When I think of these things, my senses fail,
And a sharp pain cuts my heart every day.
Now I tear off a piece of white silk to write this letter,
And send it to you with my love a long way up the river.
Jaya Surya
GOLDEN sun of victory, born
In my life's unclouded morn,
In my lambent sky of love,
May your growing glory prove
Sacred to your consecration,
To my heart and to my nation.
Sun of victory, may you be
Sun of song and liberty.
Padmaja
Lotus-maiden, you who claim
All the sweetness of your name,
Lakshmi, fortune's queen, defend you,
Lotus-born like you, and send you
Balmy moons of love to bless you,
Gentle joy-winds to caress you.
Lotus-maiden, may you be
Fragrant of all ecstasy.
Ranadheera
Little lord of battle, hail
In your newly-tempered mail!
Learn to conquer, learn to fight
In the foremost flanks of right,
Like Valmiki's heroes bold,
Rubies girt in epic gold.
Lord of battle, may you be,
Lord of love and chivalry.
Lilamani
Limpid jewel of delight
Severed from the tender night
Of your sheltering mother-mine,
Leap and sparkle, dance and shine,
Blithely and securely set
In love's magic coronet.
Living jewel, may you be
Laughter-bound and sorrow-free.
Two children (small), one Four, one Five,
Once saw a bee go in a hive,
They'd never seen a bee before!
So waited there to see some more.
And sure enough along they came
A dozen bees (and all the same!)
Within the hive they buzzed about;
Then, one by one, they all flew out.
Said Four: 'Those bees are silly things,
But how I wish I had their wings!'
Children, if you dare to think
Of the greatness, rareness, muchness
Fewness of this precious only
Endless world in which you say
You live, you think of things like this:
Blocks of slate enclosing dappled
Red and green, enclosing tawny
Yellow nets, enclosing white
And black acres of dominoes,
Where a neat brown paper parcel
Tempts you to untie the string.
In the parcel a small island,
On the island a large tree,
On the tree a husky fruit.
Strip the husk and pare the rind off:
In the kernel you will see
Blocks of slate enclosed by dappled
Red and green, enclosed by tawny
Yellow nets, enclosed by white
And black acres of dominoes,
Where the same brown paper parcel -
Children, leave the string alone!
For who dares undo the parcel
Finds himself at once inside it,
On the island, in the fruit,
Blocks of slate about his head,
Finds himself enclosed by dappled
Green and red, enclosed by yellow
Tawny nets, enclosed by black
And white acres of dominoes,
With the same brown paper parcel
Still untied upon his knee.
And, if he then should dare to think
Of the fewness, muchness, rareness,
Greatness of this endless only
Precious world in which he says
he lives - he then unties the string.
Mommy's sick in bed today.
Doctor says she has the flu.
Sissy's got a stuffy nose
and she might get it, too.
When Mommy's sick it makes us sad
she doesn't feel so good.
She's having juice and medicine
like the doctor said she should.
It's not the same when Mommy's sick,
our hugs are all sick, too,
and kisses for our boo-boo's
also have the flu.
Our sads are even sadder
so our happy's aren't as glad
and when we're being naughty,
that even feels more bad.
Let's get her better, Sissy!
Get some more juice in her
'cause I remember something else,
ewwww... Daddy's cooking dinner...
On a lonely selection far out in the West
An old woman works all the day without rest,
And she croons, as she toils 'neath the sky's glassy dome,
`Sure I'll keep the ould place till the childer come home.'
She mends all the fences, she grubs, and she ploughs,
She drives the old horse and she milks all the cows,
And she sings to herself as she thatches the stack,
`Sure I'll keep the ould place till the childer come back.'
It is five weary years since her old husband died;
And oft as he lay on his deathbed he sighed
`Sure one man can bring up ten children, he can,
An' it's strange that ten sons cannot keep one old man.'
Whenever the scowling old sundowners come,
And cunningly ask if the master's at home,
`Be off,' she replies, `with your blarney and cant,
Or I'll call my son Andy; he's workin' beyant.'
`Git out,' she replies, though she trembles with fear,
For she lives all alone and no neighbours are near;
But she says to herself, when she's like to despond,
That the boys are at work in the paddock beyond.
Ah, none of her children need follow the plough,
And some have grown rich in the city ere now;
Yet she says:  `They might come when the shearing is done,
And I'll keep the ould place if it's only for one.'
A child should always say what's true
And speak when he is spoken to,
And behave mannerly at table;
At least as far as he is able.
I know sometimes that clouds bring rain,
in wintertime it's snow,
and spring is good because it makes
the pretty flowers grow.
I know that God is everywhere
and angels all have wings,
that dogs can't talk and bunnies hop
I know so many things.
But why do daddies go away?
It makes kids and mommies sad.
Are there windows up in Heaven?
Did I do something bad?
My Mommy said it's not like that...
that children all are good.
Sometimes daddies just can't stay
even though we wish they could.
She said Daddy loves me most of all,
not to think he doesn't care
... and he sees me from the windows.
God just needs him more up there.
Mommy's getting wrinkles.
Daddy has grey hair.
It wasn't very long ago
when those things weren't there.
Wish I could smooth the wrinkles out
and darken Daddy's hair
to stop the changes going on.
It makes me feel so scared.
Grampa, does it mean they'll die?
They have wrinkles and grey hair!
I never used to worry
before those things were there.
Grampa said to look at him.
There were lots of wrinkles there,
and on his head, a snowstorm
was the color of his hair.
'Wrinkles only come to point
where smiles were, here and there.
It's your mommy's turn to get some
for the happy times you've shared.'
His white, and Daddy's grey hair
well, it was there to show
who had lived the longest time
so everyone could know!
Grampa said it's part of life.
We love, we learn, we live.
We earn grey hair and wrinkles,
they're prizes only God can give.
I like words like 'yes' and 'no'
they mean just what they say.
They either mean you can or can't
do what you want today.
Other words like 'maybe'
or even like 'we'll see'
make me feel like crying
'cause that isn't answering me.
'Someday' isn't too bad
'cause it still means we will...
but 'later' is even better
'cause it's waiting just until.
Christmas, a joyful time of year.
Fun-filled days, lots of holiday cheer.
Children all over the world, year after year,
Wait for this special day in the hopes
of many gifts to open and play.
How soon we forget, the true
meaning of Christmas.
Sweet Jesus was born on this joyous day.
In a manger in Bethlehem oh, so far away.
No pillow for his head.
No blanket for his bed.
A true gift from God, our Father
Let us praise him instead.
Written:  Dec.2/06
All you little children gather round.
Let’s sing beautiful Christmas songs.
Take your bells and chime away,
we celebrate Christmas here today.
Now raise your hands if you know the reason,
we celebrate this colorful season.
One, two, three, four, oh my, more and more.
You all deserve a great big score.
Now, let’s think a moment of our sweet Jesus.
Why we know he’ll never leave us.
He gave his life upon the cross,
we would live,  not become lost.
Today we celebrate his precious birth,
while he watches over us here on earth.
Clap your hands rejoice for all to see.
Keep Jesus in your hearts infin-ite-ly.
Written:  Dec.10/06
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree.
Lush, green ambiance standing before me.
Mesmerized by childhood memories.
I smile and ponder of which I see.
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree,
That precious time of year upon us,
to embrace our family and friends.
To share, care and make amends.
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree.
The time to think of Jesus Christ,
what his life for all has given.
Rejoice, praise, worship and sing.
His Father in heaven is our true King.
Oh Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree.
Away you’ll go for another year,
With glowing memories packed inside.
Fresh in our minds, we shall not hide.
Our living savior, Jesus Christ.
Gives much love, and an abundance of pride.
Written:  Dec.2/06
Snowflakes fall elegantly,
Ice glints glow for all to see.
Lights of red, yellow, blue and green,
are all a part of the Christmas scene.
Clap your hands sing out loud,
Rejoice in the name of Jesus.
Tis his birth we celebrate,
knowing he’ll never leave us.
Gather round one and all,
It’s time to create a memory.
Stand proud, stand tall,
allow everyone to see.
The happiness and joy you possess,
will fall upon those, without rest.
A beautiful gift to share,
at this brilliant time of year.
Written:  Dec.7/06
Merry Christmas to you all,
no matter where the snow shall fall.
With or without, Christmas is here.
Enjoy this precious time of year.
God gave Mary a joyous gift.
Allowing her to conceive his son.
Dec.25, Mary gave birth.
Sweet Baby Jesus joins us on earth.
Glory be to God in Heaven,
Thankyou for this precious gift
A gift of life, love and light
Jesus shall remain always in sight.
Written:  Dec.3/06
One Christmas was so much like another, in those years around the sea-town corner now and out of all sound except the distant speaking of the voices I sometimes hear a moment before sleep, that I can never remember whether it snowed for six days and six nights when I was twelve or whether it snowed for twelve days and twelve nights when I was six.
All the Christmases roll down toward the two-tongued sea, like a cold and headlong moon bundling down the sky that was our street; and they stop at the rim of the ice-edged fish-freezing waves, and I plunge my hands in the snow and bring out whatever I can find. In goes my hand into that wool-white bell-tongued ball of holidays resting at the rim of the carol-singing sea, and out come Mrs. Prothero and the firemen.
It was on the afternoon of the Christmas Eve, and I was in Mrs. Prothero's garden, waiting for cats, with her son Jim. It was snowing. It was always snowing at Christmas. December, in my memory, is white as Lapland, though there were no reindeers. But there were cats. Patient, cold and callous, our hands wrapped in socks, we waited to snowball the cats. Sleek and long as jaguars and horrible-whiskered, spitting and snarling, they would slink and sidle over the white back-garden walls, and the lynx-eyed hunters, Jim and I, fur-capped and moccasined trappers from Hudson Bay, off Mumbles Road, would hurl our deadly snowballs at the green of their eyes. The wise cats never appeared.
We were so still, Eskimo-footed arctic marksmen in the muffling silence of the eternal snows - eternal, ever since Wednesday - that we never heard Mrs. Prothero's first cry from her igloo at the bottom of the garden. Or, if we heard it at all, it was, to us, like the far-off challenge of our enemy and prey, the neighbor's polar cat. But soon the voice grew louder.
"Fire!" cried Mrs. Prothero, and she beat the dinner-gong.
And we ran down the garden, with the snowballs in our arms, toward the house; and smoke, indeed, was pouring out of the dining-room, and the gong was bombilating, and Mrs. Prothero was announcing ruin like a town crier in Pompeii. This was better than all the cats in Wales standing on the wall in a row. We bounded into the house, laden with snowballs, and stopped at the open door of the smoke-filled room.
Something was burning all right; perhaps it was Mr. Prothero, who always slept there after midday dinner with a newspaper over his face. But he was standing in the middle of the room, saying, "A fine Christmas!" and smacking at the smoke with a slipper.
"Call the fire brigade," cried Mrs. Prothero as she beat the gong.
"There won't be there," said Mr. Prothero, "it's Christmas."
There was no fire to be seen, only clouds of smoke and Mr. Prothero standing in the middle of them, waving his slipper as though he were conducting.
"Do something," he said. And we threw all our snowballs into the smoke - I think we missed Mr. Prothero - and ran out of the house to the telephone box.
"Let's call the police as well," Jim said. "And the ambulance." "And Ernie Jenkins, he likes fires."
But we only called the fire brigade, and soon the fire engine came and three tall men in helmets brought a hose into the house and Mr. Prothero got out just in time before they turned it on. Nobody could have had a noisier Christmas Eve. And when the firemen turned off the hose and were standing in the wet, smoky room, Jim's Aunt, Miss. Prothero, came downstairs and peered in at them. Jim and I waited, very quietly, to hear what she would say to them. She said the right thing, always. She looked at the three tall firemen in their shining helmets, standing among the smoke and cinders and dissolving snowballs, and she said, "Would you like anything to read?"
Years and years ago, when I was a boy, when there were wolves in Wales, and birds the color of red-flannel petticoats whisked past the harp-shaped hills, when we sang and wallowed all night and day in caves that smelt like Sunday afternoons in damp front farmhouse parlors, and we chased, with the jawbones of deacons, the English and the bears, before the motor car, before the wheel, before the duchess-faced horse, when we rode the daft and happy hills bareback, it snowed and it snowed. But here a small boy says: "It snowed last year, too. I made a snowman and my brother knocked it down and I knocked my brother down and then we had tea."
"But that was not the same snow," I say. "Our snow was not only shaken from white wash buckets down the sky, it came shawling out of the ground and swam and drifted out of the arms and hands and bodies of the trees; snow grew overnight on the roofs of the houses like a pure and grandfather moss, minutely -ivied the walls and settled on the postman, opening the gate, like a dumb, numb thunder-storm of white, torn Christmas cards."
"Were there postmen then, too?"
"With sprinkling eyes and wind-cherried noses, on spread, frozen feet they crunched up to the doors and mittened on them manfully. But all that the children could hear was a ringing of bells."
"You mean that the postman went rat-a-tat-tat and the doors rang?"
"I mean that the bells the children could hear were inside them."
"I only hear thunder sometimes, never bells."
"There were church bells, too."
"Inside them?"
"No, no, no, in the bat-black, snow-white belfries, tugged by bishops and storks. And they rang their tidings over the bandaged town, over the frozen foam of the powder and ice-cream hills, over the crackling sea. It seemed that all the churches boomed for joy under my window; and the weathercocks crew for Christmas, on our fence."
"Get back to the postmen"
"They were just ordinary postmen, found of walking and dogs and Christmas and the snow. They knocked on the doors with blue knuckles ...."
"Ours has got a black knocker...."
"And then they stood on the white Welcome mat in the little, drifted porches and huffed and puffed, making ghosts with their breath, and jogged from foot to foot like small boys wanting to go out."
"And then the presents?"
"And then the Presents, after the Christmas box. And the cold postman, with a rose on his button-nose, tingled down the tea-tray-slithered run of the chilly glinting hill. He went in his ice-bound boots like a man on fishmonger's slabs. "He wagged his bag like a frozen camel's hump, dizzily turned the corner on one foot, and, by God, he was gone."
"Get back to the Presents."
"There were the Useful Presents: engulfing mufflers of the old coach days, and mittens made for giant sloths; zebra scarfs of a substance like silky gum that could be tug-o'-warred down to the galoshes; blinding tam-o'-shanters like patchwork tea cozies and bunny-suited busbies and balaclavas for victims of head-shrinking tribes; from aunts who always wore wool next to the skin there were mustached and rasping vests that made you wonder why the aunts had any skin left at all; and once I had a little crocheted nose bag from an aunt now, alas, no longer whinnying with us. And pictureless books in which small boys, though warned with quotations not to, would skate on Farmer Giles' pond and did and drowned; and books that told me everything about the wasp, except why."
"Go on the Useless Presents."
"Bags of moist and many-colored jelly babies and a folded flag and a false nose and a tram-conductor's cap and a machine that punched tickets and rang a bell; never a catapult; once, by mistake that no one could explain, a little hatchet; and a celluloid duck that made, when you pressed it, a most unducklike sound, a mewing moo that an ambitious cat might make who wished to be a cow; and a painting book in which I could make the grass, the trees, the sea and the animals any colour I pleased, and still the dazzling sky-blue sheep are grazing in the red field under the rainbow-billed and pea-green birds. Hardboileds, toffee, fudge and allsorts, crunches, cracknels, humbugs, glaciers, marzipan, and butterwelsh for the Welsh. And troops of bright tin soldiers who, if they could not fight, could always run. And Snakes-and-Families and Happy Ladders. And Easy Hobbi-Games for Little Engineers, complete with instructions. Oh, easy for Leonardo! And a whistle to make the dogs bark to wake up the old man next door to make him beat on the wall with his stick to shake our picture off the wall. And a packet of cigarettes: you put one in your mouth and you stood at the corner of the street and you waited for hours, in vain, for an old lady to scold you for smoking a cigarette, and then with a smirk you ate it. And then it was breakfast under the balloons."
"Were there Uncles like in our house?"
"There are always Uncles at Christmas. The same Uncles. And on Christmas morning, with dog-disturbing whistle and sugar fags, I would scour the swatched town for the news of the little world, and find always a dead bird by the Post Office or by the white deserted swings; perhaps a robin, all but one of his fires out. Men and women wading or scooping back from chapel, with taproom noses and wind-bussed cheeks, all albinos, huddles their stiff black jarring feathers against the irreligious snow. Mistletoe hung from the gas brackets in all the front parlors; there was sherry and walnuts and bottled beer and crackers by the dessertspoons; and cats in their fur-abouts watched the fires; and the high-heaped fire spat, all ready for the chestnuts and the mulling pokers. Some few large men sat in the front parlors, without their collars, Uncles almost certainly, trying their new cigars, holding them out judiciously at arms' length, returning them to their mouths, coughing, then holding them out again as though waiting for the explosion; and some few small aunts, not wanted in the kitchen, nor anywhere else for that matter, sat on the very edge of their chairs, poised and brittle, afraid to break, like faded cups and saucers."
Not many those mornings trod the piling streets: an old man always, fawn-bowlered, yellow-gloved and, at this time of year, with spats of snow, would take his constitutional to the white bowling green and back, as he would take it wet or fire on Christmas Day or Doomsday; sometimes two hale young men, with big pipes blazing, no overcoats and wind blown scarfs, would trudge, unspeaking, down to the forlorn sea, to work up an appetite, to blow away the fumes, who knows, to walk into the waves until nothing of them was left but the two furling smoke clouds of their inextinguishable briars. Then I would be slap-dashing home, the gravy smell of the dinners of others, the bird smell, the brandy, the pudding and mince, coiling up to my nostrils, when out of a snow-clogged side lane would come a boy the spit of myself, with a pink-tipped cigarette and the violet past of a black eye, cocky as a bullfinch, leering all to himself.
I hated him on sight and sound, and would be about to put my dog whistle to my lips and blow him off the face of Christmas when suddenly he, with a violet wink, put his whistle to his lips and blew so stridently, so high, so exquisitely loud, that gobbling faces, their cheeks bulged with goose, would press against their tinsled windows, the whole length of the white echoing street. For dinner we had turkey and blazing pudding, and after dinner the Uncles sat in front of the fire, loosened all buttons, put their large moist hands over their watch chains, groaned a little and slept. Mothers, aunts and sisters scuttled to and fro, bearing tureens. Auntie Bessie, who had already been frightened, twice, by a clock-work mouse, whimpered at the sideboard and had some elderberry wine. The dog was sick. Auntie Dosie had to have three aspirins, but Auntie Hannah, who liked port, stood in the middle of the snowbound back yard, singing like a big-bosomed thrush. I would blow up balloons to see how big they would blow up to; and, when they burst, which they all did, the Uncles jumped and rumbled. In the rich and heavy afternoon, the Uncles breathing like dolphins and the snow descending, I would sit among festoons and Chinese lanterns and nibble dates and try to make a model man-o'-war, following the Instructions for Little Engineers, and produce what might be mistaken for a sea-going tramcar.
Or I would go out, my bright new boots squeaking, into the white world, on to the seaward hill, to call on Jim and Dan and Jack and to pad through the still streets, leaving huge footprints on the hidden pavements.
"I bet people will think there's been hippos."
"What would you do if you saw a hippo coming down our street?"
"I'd go like this, bang! I'd throw him over the railings and roll him down the hill and then I'd tickle him under the ear and he'd wag his tail."
"What would you do if you saw two hippos?"
Iron-flanked and bellowing he-hippos clanked and battered through the scudding snow toward us as we passed Mr. Daniel's house.
"Let's post Mr. Daniel a snow-ball through his letter box."
"Let's write things in the snow."
"Let's write, 'Mr. Daniel looks like a spaniel' all over his lawn."
Or we walked on the white shore. "Can the fishes see it's snowing?"
The silent one-clouded heavens drifted on to the sea. Now we were snow-blind travelers lost on the north hills, and vast dewlapped dogs, with flasks round their necks, ambled and shambled up to us, baying "Excelsior." We returned home through the poor streets where only a few children fumbled with bare red fingers in the wheel-rutted snow and cat-called after us, their voices fading away, as we trudged uphill, into the cries of the dock birds and the hooting of ships out in the whirling bay. And then, at tea the recovered Uncles would be jolly; and the ice cake loomed in the center of the table like a marble grave. Auntie Hannah laced her tea with rum, because it was only once a year.
Bring out the tall tales now that we told by the fire as the gaslight bubbled like a diver. Ghosts whooed like owls in the long nights when I dared not look over my shoulder; animals lurked in the cubbyhole under the stairs and the gas meter ticked. And I remember that we went singing carols once, when there wasn't the shaving of a moon to light the flying streets. At the end of a long road was a drive that led to a large house, and we stumbled up the darkness of the drive that night, each one of us afraid, each one holding a stone in his hand in case, and all of us too brave to say a word. The wind through the trees made noises as of old and unpleasant and maybe webfooted men wheezing in caves. We reached the black bulk of the house. "What shall we give them? Hark the Herald?"
"No," Jack said, "Good King Wencelas. I'll count three." One, two three, and we began to sing, our voices high and seemingly distant in the snow-felted darkness round the house that was occupied by nobody we knew. We stood close together, near the dark door. Good King Wencelas looked out On the Feast of Stephen ... And then a small, dry voice, like the voice of someone who has not spoken for a long time, joined our singing: a small, dry, eggshell voice from the other side of the door: a small dry voice through the keyhole. And when we stopped running we were outside our house; the front room was lovely; balloons floated under the hot-water-bottle-gulping gas; everything was good again and shone over the town.
"Perhaps it was a ghost," Jim said.
"Perhaps it was trolls," Dan said, who was always reading.
"Let's go in and see if there's any jelly left," Jack said. And we did that.
Always on Christmas night there was music. An uncle played the fiddle, a cousin sang "Cherry Ripe," and another uncle sang "Drake's Drum." It was very warm in the little house. Auntie Hannah, who had got on to the parsnip wine, sang a song about Bleeding Hearts and Death, and then another in which she said her heart was like a Bird's Nest; and then everybody laughed again; and then I went to bed. Looking through my bedroom window, out into the moonlight and the unending smoke-colored snow, I could see the lights in the windows of all the other houses on our hill and hear the music rising from them up the long, steady falling night. I turned the gas down, I got into bed. I said some words to the close and holy darkness, and then I slept.
So now is come our joyful'st feast,
Let every man be jolly.
Each room with ivy leaves is drest,
And every post with holly.
Though some churls at our mirth repine,
Round your foreheads garlands twine,
Drown sorrow in a cup of wine,
And let us all be merry.
Now all our neighbors' chimneys smoke,
And Christmas blocks are burning;
Their ovens they with bak'd-meats choke,
And all their spits are turning.
Without the door let sorrow lie,
And if for cold it hap to die,
We'll bury 't in a Christmas pie,
And evermore be merry.
Now every lad is wondrous trim,
And no man minds his labor;
Our lasses have provided them
A bag-pipe and a tabor.
Young men and maids and girls and boys
Give life to one another's joys,
And you anon shall by their noise
Perceive that they are merry.
Rank misers now do sparing shun,
Their hall of music soundeth,
And dogs thence with whole shoulders run,
So all things there aboundeth.
The country folk themselves advance,
For crowdy-mutton's come out of France.
And Jack shall pipe and Jill shall dance,
And all the town be merry.
Ned Swash hath fetch'd his bands from pawn,
And all his best apparel;
Brisk Nell hath bought a ruff of lawn
With droppings of the barrel;
And those that hardly all the year
Had bread to eat or rags to wear,
Will have both clothes and dainty fare,
And all the day be merry.
Now poor men to the justices
With capons make their arrants,
And if they hap to fail of these
They plague them with their warrants.
But now they feed them with good cheer,
And what they want they take in beer,
For Christmas comes but once a year,
And then they shall be merry.
Good farmers in the country nurse
The poor, that else were undone.
Some landlords spend their money worse,
On lust and pride at London.
There the roisters they do play,
Drab and dice their land away,
Which may be ours another day;
And therefore let's be merry.
The client now his suit forbears,
The prisoner's heart is eased,
The debtor drinks away his cares,
And for the time is pleased.
Though others' purses be more fat,
Why should we pine or grieve at that?
Hang sorrow, care will kill a cat,
And therefore let's be merry.
Hark how the wags abroad do call
Each other forth to rambling;
Anon you'll see them in the hall
For nuts and apples scrambling.
Hark how the roofs with laughters sound!
Anon they'll think the house goes round,
For they the cellar's depth have found,
And there they will be merry.
The wenches with their wassail bowls
About the streets are singing,
The boys are come to catch the owls,
The wild mare in is bringing.
Our kitchen boy hath broke his box,
And to the dealing of the ox
Our honest neighbors come by flocks,
And here they will be merry.
Now kings and queens poor sheepcotes have,
And mate with everybody;
The honest now may play the knave,
And wise men play at noddy.
Some youths will now a-mumming go,
Some others play at rowlandhoe,
And twenty other gameboys moe,
Because they will be merry.
Then wherefore in these merry days
Should we, I pray, be duller?
No, let us sing some roundelays
To make our mirth the fuller.
And, whilst thus inspir'd we sing,
Let all the streets with echoes ring,
Woods and hills and everything,
Bear witness we are merry.
Welcome, sweet Christmas, blest be the morn
That Christ our Saviour was born!
Earth's Redeemer, to save us from all danger,
And, as the Holy Record tells, born in a manger.
Chorus --
Then ring, ring, Christmas bells,
Till your sweet music o'er the kingdom swells,
To warn the people to respect the morn
That Christ their Saviour was born.
The snow was on the ground when Christ was born,
And the Virgin Mary His mother felt very forlorn
As she lay in a horse's stall at a roadside inn,
Till Christ our Saviour was born to free us from sin.
Oh! think of the Virgin Mary as she lay
In a lowly stable on a bed of hay,
And angels watching O'er her till Christ was born,
Therefore all the people should respect Christmas morn.
The way to respect Christmas time
Is not by drinking whisky or wine,
But to sing praises to God on Christmas morn,
The time that Jesus Christ His Son was born;
Whom He sent into the world to save sinners from hell
And by believing in Him in heaven we'll dwell;
Then blest be the morn that Christ was born,
Who can save us from hell, death, and scorn.
Then he warned, and respect the Saviour dear,
And treat with less respect the New Year,
And respect always the blessed morn
That Christ our Saviour was born.
For each new morn to the Christian is dear,
As well as the morn of the New Year,
And he thanks God for the light of each new morn.
Especially the morn that Christ was born.
Therefore, good people, be warned in time,
And on Christmas morn don't get drunk with wine
But praise God above on Christmas morn,
Who sent His Son to save us from hell and scorn.
There the heavenly babe He lay
In a stall among a lot of hay,
While the Angel Host by Bethlehem
Sang a beautiful and heavenly anthem.
Christmas time ought to be held most dear,
Much more so than the New Year,
Because that's the time that Christ was born,
Therefore respect Christmas morn.
And let the rich be kind to the poor,
And think of the hardships they do endure,
Who are neither clothed nor fed,
And Many without a blanket to their bed.
Chorus.
What sweeter music can we bring,
Than a Carol, for to sing
The Birth of this our heavenly King?
Awake the Voice! Awake the String!
Heart, Ear, and Eye, and every thing
Awake! the while the active Finger
Runs division with the Singer.
From the Flourish they came to the Song.
Voice 1:
Dark and dull night, fly hence away,
And give the honor to this Day,
That sees December turn'd to May.
Voice 2:
If we may ask the reason, say:
The why, and wherefore all things here
Seem like the Spring-time fo the year?
Voice 3:
Why does the chilling Winter's morn
Smile, like a field beset with corn?
Or smell, like to a mead new-shorn,
Thus, on the sudden?
Voice 4:
Come and see
The cause, why things thus fragrant be:
'Tis He is born, whose quick'ning Birth
Gives life and luster, public mirth,
To Heaven and the under-Earth.
Chorus:
We see Him come, and know Him ours,
Who, with His Sun-shine, and His Showers,
Turns all the patient ground to flowers.
Voice 1:
The Darling of the World is come,
And fit it is, we find a room
To welcome Him.
Voice 2:
The nobler part
Of all the house here, is the Heart,
Chorus:
Which we will give Him; and bequeath
This Holly and this Ivy Wreath,
To do Him honor; who's our King,
And Lord of all this Revelling.
GOOD fellows are laughing and drinking
(To-night no heart should grieve),
But I am of old days thinking,
Alone, on Christmas Eve.
Old memories fast are springing
To life again; old rhymes
Once more in my brain are ringing—
Ah, God be with old times!
There never was man so lonely
But ghosts walked him beside,
For Death our spirits can only
By veils of sense divide.
Numberless as the blades of
Grass in the fields that grow,
Around us hover the shades of
The dead of long ago.
Friends living a word estranges;
We smile, and we say “Adieu!”
But, whatsoever else changes,
Dead friends are faithful and true.
An old-time tune, or a flower,
The simplest thing held dear
In bygone days has the power
Once more to bring them near.
And whether it be through thinking
Of memories sad and sweet,
Or hearing the cheery clinking
Of glasses across the street,
I know not; but this is certain
That, here in the dusk, I view
Like shadows seen through a curtain,
The shades of the friends I knew.
Methinks that I hear their laughter—
An echo of ghostly mirth,
As if in the dim Hereafter
They jest as they did on earth.
The fancy possibly droll is,
And yet it relieves my mind
To think the enfranchised soul is
So humorously inclined.
But hark! whose steps in the glancing
Moonbeams are these I hear,
That sound as if timed to dancing
Music of gallant cheer!
Half Galahad, half Don Juan,
His head full of wild romance;
’Twas thus that of old would Spruhan
Come lilting, “We met by chance.”
Sure never a spirit lighter
At heart quaffed mountain dew;
Never was goblin brighter
That Oberon’s kingdom knew.
And though at this season yearly
I miss the grasp of his hand,
I know that Spruhan has merely
Gone back to Fairyland.
.     .     .     .     .
The shades grow dimmer and dimmer,
And now they fade from view,
I see in the East the glimmer
Of dawn. Old friends, adieu!
Sitting here, lonely hearted,
Writing these random rhymes.
I drink to the days departed,—
Ah, God be with old times!
Early on Christmas Day,
Love, as awake I lay,
And heard the Christmas bells ring sweet and clearly,
My heart stole through the gloom
Into your silent room,
And whispered to your heart, `I love you dearly.'
There, in the dark profound,
Your heart was sleeping sound,
And dreaming some fair dream of summer weather.
At my heart's word it woke,
And, ere the morning broke,
They sang a Christmas carol both together.
Glory to God on high!
Stars of the morning sky,
Sing as ye sang upon the first creation,
When all the Sons of God
Shouted for joy abroad,
And earth was laid upon a sure foundation.
Glory to God again!
Peace and goodwill to men,
And kindly feeling all the wide world over,
Where friends with joy and mirth
Meet round the Christmas hearth,
Or dreams of home the solitary rover.
Glory to God! True hearts,
Lo, now the dark departs,
And morning on the snow-clad hills grows grey.
Oh, may love's dawning light
Kindled from loveless night,
Shine more and more unto the perfect day!
South of the Line, inland from far Durban,
A mouldering soldier lies--your countryman.
Awry and doubled up are his gray bones,
And on the breeze his puzzled phantom moans
Nightly to clear Canopus:  "I would know
By whom and when the All-Earth-gladdening Law
Of Peace, brought in by that Man Crucified,
Was ruled to be inept, and set aside?
And what of logic or of truth appears
In tacking 'Anno Domini' to the years?
Near twenty-hundred livened thus have hied,
But tarries yet the Cause for which He died."
In presence of the multitude,
I have shown barring no gift,
For what hath I worth thy child......
In glance of many gifts bestowen,
Frankensence, Muir, Silver, Gold,
For I posses nothing worth Lord......
In tater clothes I bow Mother Mary,
And confess the birth of virgin son,
Yet words fall short of glory be.....
As thy man Joseph smiles upon,
Watching o'er thy babe Jesus,
I surrender in humilitance unto my lack.....
In moment chance hold thy hand,
of the child that taketh my place,
For this tiny babe shall wash me clean.....
In this childs eyes my saving grace,
In his fathers hand thy mercy proclaims......
IT was the calm and silent night!
Seven hundred years and fifty-three
Had Rome been growing up to might,
And now was Queen of land and sea.
No sound was heard of clashing wars;
Peace brooded o’er the hush’d domain;
Apollo, Pallas, Jove and Mars,
Held undisturb’d their ancient reign,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.
’T was in the calm and silent night!
The senator of haughty Rome
Impatient urged his chariot’s flight,
From lordly revel rolling home.
Triumphal arches gleaming swell
His breast with thoughts of boundless sway;
What reck’d the Roman what befell
A paltry province far away,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago!
Within that province far away
Went plodding home a weary boor:
A streak of light before him lay,
Fall’n through a half-shut stable door
Across his path. He pass’d—for nought
Told what was going on within;
How keen the stars! his only thought;
The air how calm and cold and thin,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago!
O strange indifference!—low and high
Drows’d over common joys and cares:
The earth was still—but knew not why;
The world was listening—unawares.
How calm a moment may precede
One that shall thrill the world for ever!
To that still moment none would heed,
Man’s doom was link’d, no more to sever,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.
It is the calm and solemn night!
A thousand bells ring out, and throw
Their joyous peals abroad, and smite
The darkness, charm’d and holy now.
The night that erst no name had worn,
To it a happy name is given;
For in that stable lay new-born
The peaceful Prince of Earth and Heaven,
In the solemn midnight
Centuries ago.
’T IS Christmas, and the North wind blows; ’t was two years yesterday
Since from the Lusitania’s bows I looked o’er Table Bay,
A tripper round the narrow world, a pilgrim of the main,
Expecting when her sails unfurled to start for home again.
’T is Christmas, and the North wind blows; to-day our hearts are one,
Though you are ’mid the English snows and I in Austral sun;
You, when you hear the Northern blast, pile high a mightier fire,
Our ladies cower until it ’s past in lawn and lace attire.
I fancy I can picture you upon this Christmas night,
Just sitting as you used to do, the laughter at its height:
And then a sudden, silent pause intruding on your glee,
And kind eyes glistening because you chanced to think of me.
This morning when I woke and knew ’t was Christmas come again,
I almost fancied I could view white rime upon the pane,
And hear the ringing of the wheels upon the frosty ground,
And see the drip that downward steals in icy casket bound.
I daresay you ’ll be on the lake, or sliding on the snow,
And breathing on your hands to make the circulation flow,
Nestling your nose among the furs of which your boa ’s made,—
The Fahrenheit here registers a hundred in the shade.
It is not quite a Christmas here with this unclouded sky,
This pure transparent atmosphere, this sun midheaven-high;
To see the rose upon the bush, young leaves upon the trees,
And hear the forest’s summer hush or the low hum of bees.
But cold winds bring not Christmastide, nor budding roses June,
And when it ’s night upon your side we ’re basking in the noon.
Kind hearts make Christmas—June can bring blue sky or clouds above;
The only universal spring is that which comes of love.
And so it ’s Christmas in the South as on the North-Sea coasts,
Though we are starved with summer-drouth and you with winter frosts.
And we shall have our roast beef here, and think of you the while,
Though all the watery hemisphere cuts off the mother isle.
Feel sure that we shall think of you, we who have wandered forth,
And many a million thoughts will go to-day from south to north;
Old heads will muse on churches old, where bells will ring to-day—
The very bells, perchance, which tolled their fathers to the clay.
And now, good-night! and I shall dream that I am with you all,
Watching the ruddy embers gleam athwart the panelled hall;
Nor care I if I dream or not, though severed by the foam,
My heart is always in the spot which was my childhood’s home.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
With dark green needled memories
Of childhood dreams and mysteries
Wrapped present-like in front of me.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
I glimpse a past wherein i see
The child that then grew into me
Not forward fast but haltingly.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
A time for being with family
A time that's gone so fleetingly
Yet lives for always deep in me.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
When twelfth night comes whole hauntingly
One lingered look and then i see
No Christmas tree where it would be.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
With feelings now felt longingly
No corner in my house to see
The magic of that Christmas tree.
This Christmas
No greater gift
Could come to me
Than just
For once
For once
To see
My own children
Just being happy.
God had a plan for Christmas
A plan that could not fail
Rather then indulgences
He went straight into retail
Positioned presents as a blessing
And to keep the whole thing green
Decided that we all should have
Those jolly Christmas trees
When he phoned Sears and K Mart
On his celestial phone
The response was overwhelming
And they changed their budgets when
He had explained the concept
To these quite commercial men
Lord Jesus said the salesmen
Who then took back their words
This concept is amazing
How do we start
And when?
Ahah said God quite gently
Its not that easy mate
The condition of your entry
Is that you should celebrate
The goodness thats amongst us
And not just profits seek
For while valued is the businessman
The world belongs unto the meek
At this point there was silence
I think a pin was dropped
So the businessmen decided
On a Christmas without God.
Sitting in front of the fire, Auntie Flo's reciting a story,
it's one about her first Christmas as a newly wed,
the same one she broadcasts every year,
but no one is listening.
Uncle Fred, 'out to the world' snores rhythmically
on the sofa.
Mother exhausted, having cooked the lunch,
without help, as usual,
stifles a yawn.
Dad, brow furrowed, is trying to piece together
Eddy's lego set,
whilst Eddy glowers,
after all, it was 'his' present.
Joe, playing with a set of 'disco lights'
is sending flashes of colour across the room,
straight into Grandpa's eyes,
making him feel even more bilious
after having consumed too many chocolates.
Grandma's knitting.
Grandma always knits on Christmas Day,
and every other day, come to that,
probably yet another scarf for what she believes is
still the war effort.
The cat, curled up on her lap, purrs contently,
oblivious of the knitting needles, waving precariously
in front of his sleepy eyes.
Susan is gazing at the TV screen, .
glued, for the umpteenth time to, 'The Sound of Music' movie,
singing every song, word for word,
at the top of her voice.
'Turkey was nice', said Auntie,
'I was given too much', moaned Grandpa, belching loudly.
'Your problem is, you never can refuse a second helping', said Grandma, 'so it's your own fault'.
Mother grins and asks,
'Would anybody like another mince pie? '
Almighty Framer of the Skies!
O let our pure devotion rise,
Like Incense in thy Sight!
Wrapt in impenetrable Shade
The Texture of our Souls were made
Till thy Command gave light.
The Sun of Glory gleam'd the Ray,
Refin'd the Darkness into Day,
And bid the Vapours fly;
Impell'd by his eternal Love
He left his Palaces above
To cheer our gloomy Sky.
How shall we celebrate the day,
When God appeared in mortal clay,
The mark of worldly scorn;
When the Archangel's heavenly Lays,
Attempted the Redeemer's Praise
And hail'd Salvation's Morn!
A Humble Form the Godhead wore,
The Pains of Poverty he bore,
To gaudy Pomp unknown;
Tho' in a human walk he trod
Still was the Man Almighty God
In Glory all his own.
Despis'd, oppress'd, the Godhead bears
The Torments of this Vale of tears;
Nor bade his Vengeance rise;
He saw the Creatures he had made,
Revile his Power, his Peace invade;
He saw with Mercy's Eyes.
How shall we celebrate his Name,
Who groan'd beneath a Life of shame
In all Afflictions tried!
The Soul is raptured to concieve
A Truth, which Being must believe,
The God Eternal died.
My Soul exert thy Powers, adore,
Upon Devotion's plumage sar
To celebrate the Day;
The God from whom Creation sprung
Shall animate my grateful Tongue;
From him I'll catch the Lay!
'Twas Christmastide in Germany,
And in the year of 1850,
And in the city of Berlin, which is most beautiful to the eye;
A poor boy was heard calling out to passers-by.
"Who'll buy my pretty figures," loudly he did cry,
Plaster of Paris figures, but no one inclined to buy;
His clothes were thin and he was nearly frozen with cold,
And wholly starving with hunger, a pitiful sight to behold.
And the twilight was giving place to the shadows of approaching night,
And those who possessed a home were seeking its warmth and light;
And the market square was dark and he began to moan,
When he thought of his hungry brother and sisters at home.
Alas! The poor boy was afraid to go home,
Oh, Heaven! hard was his lot, for money he'd none;
And the tears coursed down his cheeks while loudly he did cry,
"Buy my plaster of Paris figures, oh! please come buy."
It was now quite dark while he stood there,
And the passers-by did at the poor boy stare,
As he stood shivering with cold in the market square;
And with the falling snow he was almost frozen to the bone.
And what would it avail him standing there alone,
Therefore he must make up his mind to return home.
Then he tried to hoist the board and figures on to his head,
And for fear of letting the board fall he was in great dread;
Then he struggled manfully forward without delay,
But alas! He fell on the pavement, oh! horror and dismay.
And his beautiful figures were broken and scattered around him,
And at the sight thereof his eyes grew dim;
And when he regained his feet he stood speechless like one bowed down,
Then the poor boy did fret and frown.
Then the almost despairing boy cried aloud,
And related his distress to the increasing crowd;
Oh! What a pitiful sight on a Christmas eve,
But the dense crowd didn't the poor boy relieve,
Until a poor wood-cutter chanced to come along,
And he asked of the crowd what was wrong;
And twenty ready tongues tells him the sad tale,
And when he heard it the poor boy's fate he did bewail.
And he cried, "Here! Something must be done and quickly too,
Do you hear! Every blessed soul of you;
Come, each one give a few pence to the poor boy,
And it will help to fill his heart with joy."
Then the wood-cutter gave a golden coin away,
So the crowd subscribed largely without delay;
Which made the poor boy's heart feel gay,
Then the wood-cutter thanked the crowd and went away.
So the poor boy did a large subscription receive,
And his brother, mother, and sisters had a happy Christmas eve;
And he thanked the crowd and God that to him the money sent,
And bade the crowd good-night, then went home content.
'Twas the night before christmas.
With a blanket of white.
That covered the earth all through the night.
The trees sparkled like diamonds.
With a glitter so bright.
That each little twinkle made its own christmas light.
A hope and a prayer a white christmas would be.
Awaiting the dawn so all could see.
The beauty and joy a white christmas does bring.
To the holiday season as carolers sing.
For twas the night before Christmas.
God answered your prayer.
With a blanket of white.
Placed with God's loving care."
So, this is Christmas morning...
everyone is here.
I don't really understand it
cause it isn't very clear,
but Mom and Dad are happy,
there's pretty ribbons everywhere,
lots of things that they call presents
and even paper I can tear.
They keep showing me this new stuff,
balls and books and even soxes...
they don't seem to know how fun it is
just playing with these boxes.
When the December comes
When the white snow cover our lands
My heart is filled with joy
because this is the month for Christmas
When the carols are being sung
When the Christmas trees are brighten the house
When the stockings are overflowing under the tree
When everyone's face is glowing to open the gifts
My heart is filled with joy
When the cities are decorated with lights
When the snow flakes are softly falling on my head
When my family dance and walk around streets
When our friends visit our home for dinner
My heart is filled with joy
This blessed Christmas joy within our hearts
and celebrate throughout the world
to observe the birth of Christ
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright ©2004 Ravi Sathasivam
In the darkness of the winter
in the evening of the day
Bethlehem was full of wonder
tears of truth you heard them say
in a manger in a stable
at the feet where Mary lay
choirs of Angels started singing
Christ lives on, it's christmas day
Wise men cried he is the saviour
stars were shining clear and bright
heralds spread the birth of Jesus
people came from far and wide
gifts of joy the people praised him
tears of grace you heard them pray
Angels singing in the heavens
Christ lives on, it's christmas day
Hallelujah bells are ringing
hallelujah it's today
we'll rejoice in all the pleasure
as he washed our sins away
we'll take love and understanding
faith and hope and charity
tell the children of the future
Christ lives on, it's christmas day.
Christmas is a-comin’ – but
this goose is gettin’ thin…
why do I feel  I’m in the dock
of some unauthorised court of moral judgment
with the prospect of spending New Year
in some condemned cell of
personal opinion remarkably similar to
a Dickensian prison now electrified  in just one wing…?
Forget the whole giving-presents thing – that’s
relatively simple – it’s those bloody
Christmas cards. Sent yours yet?
I’m with the angels on this one –
peace on earth and goodwill to all, uh,
persons… I’m fully paid up on
this one – so – can we stick with that?
or do we have to prove it with
a ready-printed message once a year?
It’s Christmas, dammit – maybe my year-round goodwill
is equalled by the whole other lot of you out there?
in which case, can we just take that as read,
a universal love-in on a level playing field?
It’s the subtext – ‘I’ve forgotten your personal existence
all the year, but look – Goody Two-Shoes is sending this
to show you up – and I’m posting it
so late that short of posting in the press
one of those announcements that say
‘This year Mr and Mrs Smith are sending
a donation to charity in place of the many Christmas cards
they would have sent to their many friends…’ – or
a postcard,
‘Now we’re back from our Antarctic trip,
Happy New Year! ’ you’re too late to reply…’
which means?
Or there's the subtext
'We're sending you a very
religious card with just the faintest hint that
although you may not have noticed it
when we had that blazing row
across the fence which has
simmered on all year, nevertheless
we're really more - well, everything -
than you bastards - however
this puts us, spiritually,
one up...'
‘Darling, Christmas cards – who sent us one
last year? ’ – say no more…
Would
‘No, we hadn’t quite forgotten you
in case you thought we had, and
I bet it’s mutual? ’ cards, tastefully
designed, be more fun? or
'Why should we even know your
name and address if we
hadn't once thought you worth loving and
if so, why should that change? '
I reckon one acid test for those you love
is, only think of sending cards to
those you’d think of phoning on
Christmas Eve or Christmas Day – and then,
do just that – no need to send a card as well?
Oh well, any excuse to say, I love you.. especially
if we mean it...
so, anyone who reads this (apart from those
who only read to check whether they’d
sent us one too)   –
If an individual can claim to share
that universal love which, do we need reminding,
should live our lives for us all the year round,
please feel my universal love
blazing, blazing, towards you…
…‘what’s that, darling? Oh yes, I suppose
we’d better send them one, in case
they think we’d forgotten them… which evidently
we had, hadn’t we…? ’
Have a happy holiday and
a loving New Year full of peace
No really I mean it
Are you...........
ready for Christmas? , to decorate the tree,
The sparkling baubles that shine with glee,
The shops are filled with Christmas galore,
But the people are shouting, 'We want more',
Each and every leaf, is covered in snow,
We're still waiting for Santa's Ho! Ho! Ho! ,
The Christmas lights, light up the street,
Presents to open, people to greet,
Look what's under the tall green tree,
Are these presents all for me?
I -- In Church
Thou whose birth on earth
Angels sang to men,
While thy stars made mirth,
Saviour, at thy birth,
This day born again;
As this night was bright
With thy cradle-ray,
Very light of light,
Turn the wild world's night
To thy perfect day.
God whose feet made sweet
Those wild ways they trod,
From thy fragrant feet
Staining field and street
With the blood of God;
God whose breast is rest
In the time of strife,
In thy secret breast
Sheltering souls opprest
From the heat of life;
God whose eyes are skies
Love-lit as with spheres
By the lights that rise
To thy watching eyes,
Orbed lights of tears;
God whose heart hath part
In all grief that is,
Was not man's the dart
That went through thine heart,
And the wound not his?
Where the pale souls wail,
Held in bonds of death,
Where all spirits quail,
Came thy Godhead pale
Still from human breath -
Pale from life and strife,
Wan with manhood, came
Forth of mortal life,
Pierced as with a knife,
Scarred as with a flame.
Thou the Word and Lord
In all time and space
Heard, beheld, adored,
With all ages poured
Forth before thy face,
Lord, what worth in earth
Drew thee down to die?
What therein was worth,
Lord, thy death and birth?
What beneath thy sky?
Light above all love
By thy love was lit,
And brought down the Dove
Feathered from above
With the wings of it.
From the height of night,
Was not thine the star
That led forth with might
By no worldly light
Wise men from afar?
Yet the wise men's eyes
Saw thee not more clear
Than they saw thee rise
Who in shepherd's guise
Drew as poor men near.
Yet thy poor endure,
And are with us yet;
Be thy name a sure
Refuge for thy poor
Whom men's eyes forget.
Thou whose ways we praised,
Clear alike and dark,
Keep our works and ways
This and all thy days
Safe inside thine ark.
Who shall keep thy sheep,
Lord, and lose not one?
Who save one shall keep,
Lest the shepherds sleep?
Who beside the Son?
From the grave-deep wave,
From the sword and flame,
Thou, even thou, shalt save
Souls of king and slave
Only by thy Name.
Light not born with morn
Or her fires above,
Jesus virgin-born,
Held of men in scorn,
Turn their scorn to love.
Thou whose face gives grace
As the sun's doth heat,
Let thy sunbright face
Lighten time and space
Here beneath thy feet.
Bid our peace increase,
Thou that madest morn;
Bid oppressions cease;
Bid the night be peace;
Bid the day be born.
II--OUTSIDE CHURCH
We whose days and ways
All the night makes dark,
What day shall we praise
Of these weary days
That our life-drops mark?
We whose mind is blind,
Fed with hope of nought;
Wastes of worn mankind,
Without heart or mind,
Without meat or thought;
We with strife of life
Worn till all life cease,
Want, a whetted knife,
Sharpening strife on strife,
How should we love peace?
Ye whose meat is sweet
And your wine-cup red,
Us beneath your feet
Hunger grinds as wheat,
Grinds to make you bread.
Ye whose night is bright
With soft rest and heat,
Clothed like day with light,
Us the naked night
Slays from street to street.
Hath your God no rod,
That ye tread so light?
Man on us as God,
God as man hath trod,
Trod us down with might.
We that one by one
Bleed from either's rod.
What for us hath done
Man beneath the sun,
What for us hath God?
We whose blood is food
Given your wealth to feed,
From the Christless rood
Red with no God's blood,
But with man's indeed;
How shall we that see
Nightlong overhead
Life, the flowerless tree,
Nailed whereon as we
Were our fathers dead -
We whose ear can hear,
Not whose tongue can name,
Famine, ignorance, fear,
Bleeding tear by tear
Year by year of shame,
Till the dry life die
Out of bloodless breast,
Out of beamless eye,
Out of mouths that cry
Till death feed with rest -
How shall we as ye,
Though ye bid us, pray?
Though ye call, can we
Hear you call, or see,
Though ye show us day?
We whose name is shame,
We whose souls walk bare,
Shall we call the same
God as ye by name,
Teach our lips your prayer?
God, forgive and give,
For His sake who died?
Nay, for ours who live,
How shall we forgive
Thee, then, on our side?
We whose right to light
Heaven's high noon denies,
Whom the blind beams smite
That for you shine bright,
And but burn our eyes,
With what dreams of beams
Shall we build up day,
At what sourceless streams
Seek to drink in dreams
Ere they pass away?
In what street shall meet,
At what market-place,
Your feet and our feet,
With one goal to greet,
Having run one race?
What one hope shall ope
For us all as one
One same horoscope,
Where the soul sees hope
That outburns the sun?
At what shrine what wine,
At what board what bread,
Salt as blood or brine,
Shall we share in sign
How we poor were fed?
In what hour what power
Shall we pray for morn,
If your perfect hour,
When all day bears flower,
Not for us is born?
III--BEYOND CHURCH
Ye that weep in sleep,
Souls and bodies bound,
Ye that all night keep
Watch for change, and weep
That no change is found;
Ye that cry and die,
And the world goes on
Without ear or eye,
And the days go by
Till all days are gone;
Man shall do for you,
Men the sons of man,
What no God would do
That they sought unto
While the blind years ran.
Brotherhood of good,
Equal laws and rights,
Freedom, whose sweet food
Feeds the multitude
All their days and nights
With the bread full-fed
Of her body blest
And the soul's wine shed
From her table spread
Where the world is guest,
Mingling me and thee,
When like light of eyes
Flashed through thee and me
Truth shall make us free,
Liberty make wise;
These are they whom day
Follows and gives light
Whence they see to slay
Night, and burn away
All the seed of night.
What of thine and mine,
What of want and wealth,
When one faith is wine
For my heart and thine
And one draught is health?
For no sect elect
Is the soul's wine poured
And her table decked;
Whom should man reject
From man's common board?
Gods refuse and choose,
Grudge and sell and spare;
None shall man refuse,
None of all men lose,
None leave out of care.
No man's might of sight
Knows that hour before;
No man's hand hath might
To put back that light
For one hour the more.
Not though all men call,
Kneeling with void hands,
Shall they see light fall
Till it come for all
Tribes of men and lands.
No desire brings fire
Down from heaven by prayer,
Though man's vain desire
Hang faith's wind-struck lyre
Out in tuneless air.
One hath breath and saith
What the tune shall be -
Time, who puts his breath
Into life and death,
Into earth and sea.
To and fro years flow,
Fill their tides and ebb,
As his fingers go
Weaving to and fro
One unfinished web.
All the range of change
Hath its bounds therein,
All the lives that range
All the byways strange
Named of death or sin.
Star from far to star
Speaks, and white moons wake,
Watchful from afar
What the night's ways are
For the morning's sake.
Many names and flames
Pass and flash and fall,
Night-begotten names,
And the night reclaims,
As she bare them, all.
But the sun is one,
And the sun's name Right;
And when light is none
Saving of the sun,
All men shall have light.
All shall see and be
Parcel of the morn;
Ay, though blind were we,
None shall choose but see
When that day is born.
Sadie slumped in the chair
at her favorite table at Mel's.
Merry Christmas.  Yeah, so what?
Six empty glasses were lined up
in front of her on the chipped Formica.
The glass that was still in her hand she
studied with the same intensity
a demented gypsy might upon seeing
her favorite crystal ball suddenly deflated.
The lines in her face met in an intricate pattern
just above her penciled brows as she pondered
her situation through the booze fog.
Damn barkeep.  Damn twinkle lights hurt my eyes.
He had to put twinkle lights in here
as if anyone wants to see the graffiti better,
she cackled to herself.  She watched the room
with its new look, blink red, then green, then yellow
through the gently swirling cigarette smoke.
She threw back another drink.
Made her want to puke, that's all it did.
Who cares if it's Christmas Eve?
Every day is the same to me, she thought.
Just a workin' woman tryin' to make a buck.
Bad enough, everywhere you go bells ringin’
on corners, snow and slush in every step,
and all that fancy decoratin' to remind you you’re alone.
Mer-ry Christ-my-ass.
Cash registers ringin' big time, too,
she thought with a bitter smile.
Damn.  Business was slow this time of year.
Every john she knew was home
playing Santy Claus with the kiddies
and Husband Of The Year with the wife.
What a joke, she thought.  What they really want,
I give 'em.  What they really need, I give 'em.
They're all the same.  What a friggin' joke, she thought.
Yeah, only the joke’s on me.
She raised a finger at the barkeep for another drink.
A shadow fell through the swirling smoke
to settle eerily on the table, blinking through
the empty glasses in front of her.
She looked up to see one of her regulars standing there.
Finally!  She thought to herself.  'Bout time, too.
Already a plan had formed in her mind
to do him fast and then get some shut-eye.
She gave him her best crimson smile.
The john leaned down and handed her a folded bill.
With a sad smile he said, 'Go home, Sadie.
This one's on me, and, Merry Christmas to you.'
Then he turned and walked back through
the swirled and blinking smoke and out
into the street with her staring slack-jawed
at the closing door behind him.
Damn.  If that don't beat all.
As she unfolded the fifty dollar bill,
she pushed back her chair, got up
from the table and for the first time in years,
Sadie’s face softened into a genuine smile.
But if they'd give us toys and twice the stuff most
parents splurge on the average kid, orphans, I submit, need more than enough;
in fact, stacks wrapped with our names nearly hid
the tree: these sparkling allotments yearly
guaranteed a lack of--what?--family?--
I knew exactly what it was I missed as we were lined up number rank and file:
to share my pals' tearing open their piles
meant sealing the self, the child that wanted
to scream at all You stole those gifts from me;
whose birthday is worth such words? The wish-lists
they'd made us write out in May lay granted
against starred branches. I said I'm sorry.
"I heard the bells on Christmas Day
Their old familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet
The words repeat
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along
The unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Till, ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day,
A voice, a chime
A chant sublime
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
Then from each black accursed mouth
The cannon thundered in the South,
And with the sound
The carols drowned
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
It was as if an earthquake rent
The hearth-stones of a continent,
And made forlorn
The households born
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!
And in despair I bowed my head;
"There is no peace on earth," I said;
"For hate is strong,
And mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good-will to men!"
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
"God is not dead; nor doth he sleep!
The Wrong shall fail,
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men!"
I don't
(normally)
do this
you understand
but I am
staring at her
chest
in particular
where her ample breasts
meet in a more than ample
cleavage.
Did not this
awesome architecture
of female flesh this
confluence of mammaries
just go
...tweet?
Yes...there
it is
for all to see
in a daring low-cut top
a robin redbreast
in her cleavage
making all who see it
...smile.
A tiny broken
robin
with an injured wing
(poor thing)
nestling between
her breasts
(well it is
Christmas after all) .
She feeds it
every hour
with a tiny
dropper
as it nestles
snuggily.
'Peep...peep! '
it pipes up
every so
often.
Come Christmas
she gives it
the gift
of its
freedom
nothing but
blue skies
all day long
it returns
to its
human
as if it were
a living
Christmas  card.
The kings they came from out the south,
All dressed in ermine fine;
They bore Him gold and chrysoprase,
And gifts of precious wine.
The shepherds came from out the north,
Their coats were brown and old;
They brought Him little new-born lambs--
They had not any gold.
The wise men came from out the east,
And they were wrapped in white;
The star that led them all the way
Did glorify the night.
The angels came from heaven high,
And they were clad with wings;
And lo, they brought a joyful song
The host of heaven sings.
The kings they knocked upon the door,
The wise men entered in,
The shepherds followed after them
To hear the song begin.
The angels sang through all the night
Until the rising sun,
But little Jesus fell asleep
Before the song was done.
What sudden blaze of song
Spreads o'er th' expanse of Heaven?
In waves of light it thrills along,
Th' angelic signal given -
"Glory to God!" from yonder central fire
Flows out the echoing lay beyond the starry choir;
Like circles widening round
Upon a clear blue river,
Orb after orb, the wondrous sound
Is echoed on for ever:
"Glory to God on high, on earth be peace,
And love towards men of love--salvation and release."
Yet stay, before thou dare
To join that festal throng;
Listen and mark what gentle air
First stirred the tide of song;
'Tis not, "the Saviour born in David's home,
To Whom for power and health obedient worlds should come:" -
'Tis not, "the Christ the Lord:"
With fixed adoring look
The choir of Angels caught the word,
Nor yet their silence broke:
But when they heard the sign where Christ should be,
In sudden light they shone and heavenly harmony.
Wrapped in His swaddling bands,
And in His manger laid,
The Hope and Glory of all lands
Is come to the world's aid:
No peaceful home upon his cradle smiled,
Guests rudely went and came, where slept the royal Child.
But where Thou dwellest, Lord,
No other thought should be,
Once duly welcomed and adored,
How should I part with Thee?
Bethlehem must lose Thee soon, but Thou wilt grace
The single heart to be Thy sure abiding-place.
Thee, on the bosom laid
Of a pure virgin mind,
In quiet ever, and in shade,
Shepherd and sage may find;
They, who have bowed untaught to Nature's sway,
And they, who follow Truth along her star-paved way.
The pastoral spirits first
Approach Thee, Babe divine,
For they in lowly thoughts are nursed,
Meet for Thy lowly shrine:
Sooner than they should miss where Thou dost dwell,
Angela from Heaven will stoop to guide them to Thy cell.
Still, as the day comes round
For Thee to be revealed,
By wakeful shepherds Thou art found,
Abiding in the field.
All through the wintry heaven and chill night air,
In music and in light Thou dawnest on their prayer.
O faint not ye for fear -
What though your wandering sheep,
Reckless of what they see and hear,
Lie lost in wilful sleep?
High Heaven in mercy to your sad annoy
Still greets you with glad tidings of immortal joy.
Think on th' eternal home,
The Saviour left for you;
Think on the Lord most holy, come
To dwell with hearts untrue:
So shall ye tread untired His pastoral ways,
And in the darkness sing your carol of high praise.
Christmas is so merry, at this special time of year
Christmas is extraordinary, as long as you are here
Inside my heart I’ll jump and dance, excited just to see
The sparkling beauty in your glance, upon this Christmas eve
We’ll cuddle tight and wait the night, for Santa Clause to come
We’ll hope and dream a million dreams, and wake up with the sun
Then Christmas I will look at you, and that’s when I will say
“Oh darling all my dreams came true, with you on Christmas day! ”
So hang the holly and the lights, let out your Christmas cheer
And stack the presents to new heights, it comes but once a year
Alone--with one fair star for company,
The loveliest star among the hosts of night,
While the grey tide ebbs with the ebbing light--
I pace along the darkening wintry sea.
Now round the yule-log and the glittering tree
Twinkling with festive tapers, eyes as bright
Sparkle with Christmas joys and young delight,
As each one gathers to his family.
But I--a waif on earth where'er I roam--
Uprooted with life's bleeding hopes and fears
From that one heart that was my heart's sole home,
Feel the old pang pierce through the severing years,
And as I think upon the years to come
That fair star trembles through my falling tears.
Oh sharp diamond, my mother!
I could not count the cost
of all your faces, your moods-
that present that I lost.
Sweet girl, my deathbed,
my jewel-fingered lady,
your portrait flickered all night
by the bulbs of the tree.
Your face as calm as the moon
over a mannered sea,
presided at the family reunion,
the twelve grandchildren
you used to wear on your wrist,
a three-months-old baby,
a fat check you never wrote,
the red-haired toddler who danced the twist,
your aging daughters, each one a wife,
each one talking to the family cook,
each one avoiding your portrait,
each one aping your life.
Later, after the party,
after the house went to bed,
I sat up drinking the Christmas brandy,
watching your picture,
letting the tree move in and out of focus.
The bulbs vibrated.
They were a halo over your forehead.
Then they were a beehive,
blue, yellow, green, red;
each with its own juice, each hot and alive
stinging your face. But you did not move.
I continued to watch, forcing myself,
waiting, inexhaustible, thirty-five.
I wanted your eyes, like the shadows
of two small birds, to change.
But they did not age.
The smile that gathered me in, all wit,
all charm, was invincible.
Hour after hour I looked at your face
but I could not pull the roots out of it.
Then I watched how the sun hit your red sweater, your withered neck,
your badly painted flesh-pink skin.
You who led me by the nose, I saw you as you were.
Then I thought of your body
as one thinks of murder-
Then I said Mary-
Mary, Mary, forgive me
and then I touched a present for the child,
the last I bred before your death;
and then I touched my breast
and then I touched the floor
and then my breast again as if,
somehow, it were one of yours.
When Christmas bells are swinging above the fields of snow,
We hear sweet voices ringing from lands of long ago.
And etched on vacant places,
Are half forgotten faces
Of friends we used to cherish, and loves we used to know –
When Christmas bells are swinging above the fields of snow.
Uprising from the ocean of the present surging near,
We see, with strange emotion that is not free from fear,
That continent Elysian
Long vanished from our vision,
Youth’s lovely lost Atlantis, so mourned for and so dear,
Uprising from the ocean of the present surging near.
When gloomy gray Decembers are roused to Christmas mirth,
The dullest life remembers there once was joy on earth,
And draws from youth’s recesses
Some memory it possesses,
And, gazing through the lens of time, exaggerates its worth,
When gloomy gray December is roused to Christmas mirth.
When hanging up the holly or mistletoe, I wis
Each heart recalls some folly that lit the world with bliss.
Not all the seers and sages
With wisdom of the ages
Can give the mind such pleasure as memories of that kiss
When hanging up the holly or mistletoe, I wis.
For life was made for loving, and love alone repays,
As passing years are proving for all of Time’s sad ways.
There lies a sting in pleasure,
And fame gives shallow measure,
And wealth is but a phantom that mocks the restless days,
For life was made for loving, and only loving pays.
When Christmas bells are pelting the air with silver chimes,
And silences are melting to soft, melodious rhymes,
Let Love, the worlds beginning,
End fear and hate and sinning;
Let Love, the God Eternal, be worshipped in all climes
When Christmas bells are pelting the air with silver chimes.
Along the Woodford road there comes a noise
Of wheels, and Mr. Rounding's neat post-chaise
Struggles along, drawn by a pair of bays,
With Reverend Mr. Crow and six small boys,
Who ever and anon declare their joys
With trumping horns and juvenile huzzas,
At going home to spend their Christmas days,
And changing learning's pains for pleasure's toys.
Six weeks elapse, and down the Woodford way
A heavy coach drags six more heavy souls,
But no glad urchins shout, no trumpets bray,
The carriage makes a halt, the gate-bell tolls,
And little boys walk in as dull and mum
As six new scholars to the Deaf and Dumb!
O DAY, the crown and crest of all the year!
Thou comest not to us amid the snows,
But midmost of the reign of the red rose;
Our hearts have not yet lost the ancient cheer
That filled our fathers’ simple hearts when sere
The leaves fell, and the winds of Winter froze
The waters wan, and carols at the close
Of yester-eve sang the Child Christ anear.
And so we hail thee with a greeting high,
And drain to thee a draught of our own wine,
Forgetful not beneath this bluer sky
Of that old mother-land beyond the brine,
Whose gray skies gladden as thou drawest nigh,
O day of God’s good-will the seal and sign!
Dim dawn behind the tamerisks -- the sky is saffron-yellow --
As the women in the village grind the corn,
And the parrots seek the riverside, each calling to his fellow
That the Day, the staring Easter Day is born.
Oh the white dust on the highway! Oh the stenches in the byway!
Oh the clammy fog that hovers
And at Home they're making merry 'neath the white and scarlet berry --
What part have India's exiles in their mirth?
Full day begind the tamarisks -- the sky is blue and staring --
As the cattle crawl afield beneath the yoke,
And they bear One o'er the field-path, who is past all hope or caring,
To the ghat below the curling wreaths of smoke.
Call on Rama, going slowly, as ye bear a brother lowly --
Call on Rama -- he may hear, perhaps, your voice!
With our hymn-books and our psalters we appeal to other altars,
And to-day we bid "good Christian men rejoice!"
High noon behind the tamarisks -- the sun is hot above us --
As at Home the Christmas Day is breaking wan.
They will drink our healths at dinner -- those who tell us how they love us,
And forget us till another year be gone!
Oh the toil that knows no breaking! Oh the
Heimweh,
ceaseless, aching!
Oh the black dividing Sea and alien Plain!
Youth was cheap -- wherefore we sold it.
Gold was good -- we hoped to hold it,
And to-day we know the fulness of our gain.
Grey dusk behind the tamarisks -- the parrots fly together --
As the sun is sinking slowly over Home;
And his last ray seems to mock us shackled in a lifelong tether.
That drags us back how'er so far we roam.
Hard her service, poor her payment -- she is ancient, tattered raiment --
India, she the grim Stepmother of our kind.
If a year of life be lent her, if her temple's shrine we enter,
The door is hut -- we may not look behind.
Black night behind the tamarisks -- the owls begin their chorus --
As the conches from the temple scream and bray.
With the fruitless years behind us, and the hopeless years before us,
Let us honor, O my brother, Christmas Day!
Call a truce, then, to our labors -- let us feast with friends and neighbors,
And be merry as the custom of our caste;
For if "faint and forced the laughter," and if sadness follow after,
We are richer by one mocking Christmas past.
Christmas is really
for the children.
Especially for children
who like animals, stables,
stars and babies wrapped
in swaddling clothes.
Then there are wise men,
kings in fine robes,
humble shepherds and a
hint of rich perfume.
Easter is not really
for the children
unless accompanied by
a cream filled egg.
It has whips, blood, nails,
a spear and allegations
of body snatching.
It involves politics, God
and the sins of the world.
It is not good for people
of a nervous disposition.
They would do better to
think on rabbits, chickens
and the first snowdrop
of spring.
Or they'd do better to
wait for a re-run of
Christmas without asking
too many questions about
what Jesus did when he grew up
or whether there's any connection.
Dear, look to the Christmas angel
atop your Christmas tree.
Then all your wishes will come true,
When she smiles down on you.
Listen to the bells of Christmas
ringing throughout the land
The church, the school, and sleigh bells, too,
sounds of love...old...yet...new.
In the middle of falling snow and sparkling crystal rain
when winds blow cold against the frosted window pane
there's a pleasant warmth felt everywhere in the merry Christmas glow
Since all your Christmas blessings dwell
as spirits in your heart;
become as Santa full of mirth.
Spread peace and joy on earth.
Coloured lights and tinsel.
Hang from almost every branch.
Card with little jingles.
Also make their stance.
An angel stands on the top.
Looks down with peace and good will.
The tree is almost ready now.
To stand by the window sill.
14 Nov 1978
Christmas day arrives.
Stockings are first to be explored.
Oranges, apples and sweets.
On their beds adorn.
Mum and Dad are awoke,
at some early hour.
By children’s faces,
filled with laughter and smile.
Saying their presents,
they wish to explore.
Coloured paper and ribbons,
scattered here and there across the floor.
Boys with cars and girls with dolls,
seem to be everywhere.
As for the toys in the shops,
that were wanted, but not bought.
In the excitement of it all.
They are not missed
and very soon forgot.
14 Nov 1978
December twenty-first
we gather at the white Church festooned
red and green, the tree flashing
green-red lights beside the altar.
After the children of Sunday School
recite Scripture, sing songs,
and scrape out solos,
they retire to dress for the finale,
to perform the pageant
again: Mary and Joseph kneeling
cradleside, Three Kings,
shepherds and shepherdesses. Their garments
are bathrobes with mothholes,
cut down from the Church's ancestors.
Standing short and long,
they stare in all directions for mothers,
sisters and brothers,
giggling and waving in recognition,
and at the South Danbury
Church, a moment before Santa
arrives with her ho-hos
and bags of popcorn, in the half-dark
of whole silence, God
enters the world as a newborn again.
christmas list
and christmas wish
all apart of the christmas theme
without any of it its like there is no meaning
but im here to tell
im here to yell
that christmas is not all about you
christmas she get you in the spirit for what you need to do
help the poor
help the needy
help the ones that dont get this or that
help the ones that have that and this
christmas is not all about you
if i need to yell or scream
to tell you what christmas means
i will
i promise
because christmas is not all about me
its not all about you
just what you need to do
How grace this hallowed day?
Shall happy bells, from yonder ancient spire,
Send their glad greetings to each Christmas fire
Round which the children play?
Alas! for many a moon,
That tongueless tower hath cleaved the Sabbath air,
Mute as an obelisk of ice, aglare
Beneath an Arctic noon.
Shame to the foes that drown
Our psalms of worship with their impious drum,
The sweetest chimes in all the land lie dumb
In some far rustic town.
There, let us think, they keep,
Of the dead Yules which here beside the sea
They've ushered in with old-world, English glee,
Some echoes in their sleep.
How shall we grace the day?
With feast, and song, and dance, and antique sports,
And shout of happy children in the courts,
And tales of ghost and fay?
Is there indeed a door,
Where the old pastimes, with their lawful noise,
And all the merry round of Christmas joys,
Could enter as of yore?
Would not some pallid face
Look in upon the banquet, calling up
Dread shapes of battles in the wassail cup,
And trouble all the place?
How could we bear the mirth,
While some loved reveler of a year ago
Keeps his mute Christmas now beneath the snow,
In cold Virginian earth?
How shall we grace the day?
Ah! let the thought that on this holy morn
The Prince of Peace -- the Prince of Peace was born,
Employ us, while we pray!
Pray for the peace which long
Hath left this tortured land, and haply now
Holds its white court on some far mountain's brow,
There hardly safe from wrong!
Let every sacred fane
Call its sad votaries to the shrine of God,
And, with the cloister and the tented sod,
Join in one solemn strain!
With pomp of Roman form,
With the grave ritual brought from England's shore,
And with the simple faith which asks no more
Than that the heart be warm!
He, who, till time shall cease,
Will watch that earth, where once, not all in vain,
He died to give us peace, may not disdain
A prayer whose theme is -- peace.
Perhaps ere yet the Spring
Hath died into the Summer, over all
The land, the peace of His vast love shall fall,
Like some protecting wing.
Oh, ponder what it means!
Oh, turn the rapturous thought in every way!
Oh, give the vision and the fancy play,
And shape the coming scenes!
Peace in the quiet dales,
Made rankly fertile by the blood of men,
Peace in the woodland, and the lonely glen,
Peace in the peopled vales!
Peace in the crowded town,
Peace in a thousand fields of waving grain,
Peace in the highway and the flowery lane,
Peace on the wind-swept down!
Peace on the farthest seas,
Peace in our sheltered bays and ample streams,
Peace wheresoe'er our starry garland gleams,
And peace in every breeze!
Peace on the whirring marts,
Peace where the scholar thinks, the hunter roams,
Peace, God of Peace! peace, peace, in all our homes,
And peace in all our hearts!
Christmas is come and every hearth
Makes room to give him welcome now
E'en want will dry its tears in mirth
And crown him wi' a holly bough
Tho tramping 'neath a winters sky
O'er snow track paths and rhymey stiles
The huswife sets her spining bye
And bids him welcome wi' her smiles
Each house is swept the day before
And windows stuck wi' evergreens
The snow is beesom'd from the door
And comfort crowns the cottage scenes
Gilt holly wi' its thorny pricks
And yew and box wi' berrys small
These deck the unus'd candlesticks
And pictures hanging by the wall
Neighbours resume their anual cheer
Wishing wi smiles and spirits high
Clad christmass and a happy year
To every morning passer bye
Milk maids their christmass journeys go
Accompanyd wi favourd swain
And childern pace the crumping snow
To taste their grannys cake again
Hung wi the ivys veining bough
The ash trees round the cottage farm
Are often stript of branches now
The cotters christmass hearth to warm
He swings and twists his hazel band
And lops them off wi sharpend hook
And oft brings ivy in his hand
To decorate the chimney nook
Old winter whipes his ides bye
And warms his fingers till he smiles
Where cottage hearths are blazing high
And labour resteth from his toils
Wi merry mirth beguiling care
Old customs keeping wi the day
Friends meet their christmass cheer to share
And pass it in a harmless way
Old customs O I love the sound
However simple they may be
What ere wi time has sanction found
Is welcome and is dear to me
Pride grows above simplicity
And spurns it from her haughty mind
And soon the poets song will be
The only refuge they can find
The shepherd now no more afraid
Since custom doth the chance bestow
Starts up to kiss the giggling maid
Beneath the branch of mizzletoe
That neath each cottage beam is seen
Wi pearl-like-berrys shining gay
The shadow still of what hath been
Which fashion yearly fades away
And singers too a merry throng
At early morn wi simple skill
Yet imitate the angels song
And chant their christmass ditty still
And mid the storm that dies and swells
By fits-in humings softly steals
The music of the village bells
Ringing round their merry peals
And when its past a merry crew
Bedeckt in masks and ribbons gay
The 'Morrice danse' their sports renew
And act their winter evening play
The clown-turnd-kings for penny praise
Storm wi the actors strut and swell
And harlequin a laugh to raise
Wears his hump back and tinkling bell
And oft for pence and spicy ale
Wi winter nosgays pind before
The wassail singer tells her tale
And drawls her christmass carrols oer
The prentice boy wi ruddy face
And ryhme bepowderd dancing locks
From door to door wi happy pace
Runs round to claim his 'christmass box'
The block behind the fire is put
To sanction customs old desires
And many a faggots bands are cut
For the old farmers christmass fires
Where loud tongd gladness joins the throng
And winter meets the warmth of may
Feeling by times the heat too strong
And rubs his shins and draws away
While snows the window panes bedim
The fire curls up a sunny charm
Where creaming oer the pitchers rim
The flowering ale is set to warm
Mirth full of joy as summer bees
Sits there its pleasures to impart
While childern tween their parents knees
Sing scraps of carrols oer by heart
And some to view the winter weathers
Climb up the window seat wi glee
Likening the snow to falling feathers
In fancys infant extacy
Laughing wi superstitious love
Oer visions wild that youth supplyes
Of people pulling geese above
And keeping christmass in the skyes
As tho the homstead trees were drest
In lieu of snow wi dancing leaves
As. tho the sundryd martins nest
Instead of ides hung the eaves
The childern hail the happy day
As if the snow was april grass
And pleasd as neath the warmth of may
Sport oer the water froze to glass
Thou day of happy sound and mirth
That long wi childish memory stays
How blest around the cottage hearth
I met thee in my boyish days
Harping wi raptures dreaming joys
On presents that thy coming found
The welcome sight of little toys
The christmass gifts of comers round
'The wooden horse wi arching head
Drawn upon wheels around the room
The gilded coach of ginger bread
And many colord sugar plumb
Gilt coverd books for pictures sought
Or storys childhood loves to tell
Wi many a urgent promise bought
To get tomorrows lesson well
And many a thing a minutes sport
Left broken on the sanded floor
When we woud leave our play and court
Our parents promises for more
Tho manhood bids such raptures dye
And throws such toys away as vain
Yet memory loves to turn her eye
And talk such pleasures oer again
Around the glowing hearth at night
The harmless laugh and winter tale
Goes round-while parting friends delight
To toast each other oer their ale
The cotter oft wi quiet zeal
Will musing oer his bible lean
While in the dark the lovers steal
To kiss and toy behind the screen
The yule cake dotted thick wi plumbs
Is on each supper table found
And cats look up for falling crumbs
Which greedy childern litter round
And huswifes sage stuffd seasond chine
Long hung in chimney nook to drye
And boiling eldern berry wine
To drink the christmas eves 'good bye'
Hail the coming holiday,
With a hearty joyous feast,
And drive away sorrow, friends,
For a day or two at least;
Lay all business cares aside,
And make the world resound,
With music and festivals
Throughout our merry town.
May every person in our land
A voice to heaven raise,
And welcome in Christ's birthday,
With everlasting praise;
Praise Him who died upon the cross,
Our sinning souls to save,
The great Redeemer, Christ our lord,
That dwells beyond the grave.
We should meet in reverence,
And God's commands obey,
And make each other happy
Throughout the holiday;
And not forget the orphans,
The aged or the blind,
The rich, the poor and needy,
To each one pray be kind.
May every parent in the land,
Hail Christmas day with joy,
And not forget a present for
Their little girls and boys;
They are looking forth anxiously,
For Santa Claus to come
And fill their little stockings,
With toys and sugar-plumbs.
God grant a merry Christmas eve
And happy Christmas day,
To every person in the land,
At home or far away.
That festive day will soon be here,
Alas, will soon be o'er;
Welcome, welcome the coming of
Christmas day once more.
My goodness, my goodness,
It's Christmas again.
The bells are all ringing.
I do not know when
I've been so excited.
The tree is all fixed,
The candles are lighted,
The pudding is mixed.
The wreath's on the door
And the carols are sung,
The presents are wrapped
And the holly is hung.
The turkey is sitting
All safe in its pan,
And I am behaving
As calm as I can.
I try not to think about June
In December,
I try not to remember
People and places, beautiful faces
That have escaped my view.
Christmas presents
Given without love
Become landfill sadness;
And I feel, this year,
Every emotion
Is being discarded en masse.
You gave me a gift of tears,
That one I’m still holding onto.
Christmas roses white as milk,
Petals soft, and smooth as silk,
Adding charm to Christmas Fare
Your beauty is beyond compare.
Christmas roses sweet and white
Look exquisite by candlelight.
Standing by the Christmas tree
Beautiful, pure, simplicity.
Christmas is coming
We will buy presents galore
The bailiffs might call.
Silent, Holy Night
Sing this Carol, for it rhymes
Carol said no thanks!
A Christmas Turkey
It's Gobble, gobble, gobble
A very tasty meal.
©   Ernestine Northover
Put up a splash of Christmas spirit
Put in a dash of love
Stir up the sounds ‘till you can hear it
Sing out to those you love
Christmas, Christmas, you can fill me
Up with Christmas cheer
Christmas, Christmas, you fulfill my
Spirit every year
Toss up a mash of extra magic
Toss in a batch of love
Let up the lights with random logic
Look out for sleighs above
Santa, Santa, can I have it
Please I’ve been so good
Santa, Santa, please I beg you
Please oh if you would
Get up a clash of Christmas color
Get in a catch of love
Set up and show the shiny decor
Shout out with Christmas love
Listen, listen, you can see it
Spirit everywhere
Listen, listen, you can do it
Spread it out and share
Put up a splash of Christmas spirit
Put in a dash of love
Stir up the sounds ‘till you can hear it
Sing out to those you love
Christmas, Christmas, you can fill me
Up with Christmas cheer
Christmas, Christmas, you fulfill my
Spirit every year
Cars and bustle, rush and hustle,
trolley dashing tempers clashing
Christmas cheer to much beer
mistletoe, plastic snow
christmas holly 'lets be jolly'
christmas pud, do you think we should?
Turkey, stuffing, granny puffing,
fairy lights, men in tights
pantomimes, palour games
christmas cake, belly ache
as yet another piece you take!
Boxing day, in-laws stay!
Endless repeats on the telly, and again from your belly!
No more hassle...the odd brussel!
christmas farce....
A pain in the arse!
'Christmas cheer
is not found here,
children, we are too poor.
What's left instead,
moldy and stale bread,
and no fancy wreaths on our door.
We'll have no tree
but something came to me
and it'll cure those blues of yours.'
Then Mother took lights,
and at tree height,
afixed them from ceiling to floor
Criss-crossed and V-ed
yes, it turned out to be
the most beautiful tree evermore...
And with that act,
I knew for a fact,
Mother deserved to be adored!
Then Father came in
reeking of his gin
looked upon this and was floored!
His face ghastly,
turned bitter and nasty,
Christmas lights from the wall he tore
'I'll have none of this! '
and he said with a hiss,
'Woman, you are a stupid wh*re.'
And he left a mess
kinda like us, I guess
as we all cried of Christmas's of yore
Still, as Mother was blue
She said, 'This was meant for you'
And the lights went on the wall once more
She said, 'Don't hate,
Father's anger will abate...
He is only sad that we are so poor.'
This happened to be,
Christmas of 1983,
the saddest of that I am sure.
But what I've learned...
love given is love returned
and happiness is something to fight for.
It seems the theme this yuletide.
As thought up by some folks,
Is "Let's keep Christ in Christmas",
Say, are they making jokes?
I've always thought from childhood,
That this was his birth date,
Or so that's why my mother said,
Our folks did celebrate,
Am I all wrong? Is this all new?
Or are we coming back,
From down the road where we turned off,
And maybe lost some track.
I find that if I close my mind,
To worldly pleasures here,
That Christ IS Christmas all the time,
Each day throughout each year.
But if by chance you've lost your way,
Then wash the slate up clean,
Give credit to those folks who thought,
Of this years, "Yuletide theme."
But when all of this is over,
And yuletide lights go out,
Let's NOT keep CHRIST in Christmas,
But each day from here on out.
I hung the decorations
and I trimmed the christmas tree.
What really means the most of all
is that you're here with me.
You make the season special
without spending lots of dough.
Your neverending friendship
means more than you could know.
I can't say what it means to me
to share this special time.
I thank God for another year
that He's let you be mine.
Let's deck the halls and celebrate
with family and friends.
But, lets take time for you and me
before the season ends.
I count my treasures o'er with care.--
The little toy my darling knew,
A little sock of faded hue,
A little lock of golden hair.
Long years ago this holy time,
My little one--my all to me--
Sat robed in white upon my knee
And heard the merry Christmas chime.
"Tell me, my little golden-head,
If Santa Claus should come to-night,
What shall he bring my baby bright,--
What treasure for my boy?" I said.
And then he named this little toy,
While in his round and mournful eyes
There came a look of sweet surprise,
That spake his quiet, trustful joy.
And as he lisped his evening prayer
He asked the boon with childish grace;
Then, toddling to the chimney-place,
He hung this little stocking there.
That night, while lengthening shadows crept,
I saw the white-winged angels come
With singing to our lowly home
And kiss my darling as he slept.
They must have heard his little prayer,
For in the morn, with rapturous face,
He toddled to the chimney-place,
And found this little treasure there.
They came again one Christmas-tide,--
That angel host, so fair and white!
And singing all that glorious night,
They lured my darling from my side.
A little sock, a little toy,
A little lock of golden hair,
The Christmas music on the air,
A watching for my baby boy!
But if again that angel train
And golden-head come back for me,
To bear me to Eternity,
My watching will not be in vain!
1879.
'Tis true, of old the unchanging sun
His daily course refused to run,
The pale moon hurrying to the west
Paused at a mortal's call, to aid
The avenging storm of war, that laid
Seven guilty realms at once on earth's defiled breast.
But can it be, one suppliant tear
Should stay the ever-moving sphere?
A sick man's lowly-breathed sigh,
When from the world he turns away,
And hides his weary eyes to pray,
Should change your mystic dance, ye wanderers of the sky?
We too, O Lord, would fain command,
As then, Thy wonder-working hand,
And backward force the waves of Time,
That now so swift and silent bear
Our restless bark from year to year;
Help us to pause and mourn to Thee our tale of crime.
Bright hopes, that erst the bosom warmed,
And vows, too pure to be performed,
And prayers blown wide by gales of care; -
These, and such faint half-waking dreams,
Like stormy lights on mountain streams,
Wavering and broken all, athwart the conscience glare.
How shall we 'scape the o'erwhelming Past?
Can spirits broken, joys o'ercast,
And eyes that never more may smile:  -
Can these th' avenging bolt delay,
Or win us back one little day
The bitterness of death to soften and beguile?
Father and Lover of our souls!
Though darkly round Thine anger rolls,
Thy sunshine smiles beneath the gloom,
Thou seek'st to warn us, not confound,
Thy showers would pierce the hardened ground
And win it to give out its brightness and perfume.
Thou smil'st on us in wrath, and we,
E'en in remorse, would smile on Thee,
The tears that bathe our offered hearts,
We would not have them stained and dim,
But dropped from wings of seraphim,
All glowing with the light accepted love imparts.
Time's waters will not ebb, nor stay;
Power cannot change them, but Love may;
What cannot be, Love counts it done.
Deep in the heart, her searching view
Can read where Faith is fixed and true,
Through shades of setting life can see Heaven's work begun.
O Thou, who keep'st the Key of Love,
Open Thy fount, eternal Dove,
And overflow this heart of mine,
Enlarging as it fills with Thee,
Till in one blaze of charity
Care and remorse are lost, like motes in light divine;
Till as each moment wafts us higher,
By every gush of pure desire,
And high-breathed hope of joys above,
By every secret sigh we heave,
Whole years of folly we outlive,
In His unerring sight, who measures Life by Love.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King,
Peace on earth and mercy mild,
God and sinner reconcil'd.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Joyful all ye nations rise,
Join the triumph of the skies,
With the angelic host proclaim,
Christ is born in Bethlehem.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Christ by highest Heaven ador'd,
Christ the everlasting Lord!
Late in time behold him come,
Offspring of a virgin's womb.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Veiled in flesh the Godhead see,
Hail, the incarnate Deity,
Pleased as Man with man to dwell,
Jesus our Immanuel!
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Hail the Heaven-born Prince of Peace!
Hail the Sun of Righteousness!
Light and life to all he brings,
Risen with healing in his wings.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
Mild he lays his glory by,
Born that man no more may die,
Born to raise the sons of earth,
Born to give them second birth.
Hark! the herald Angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King.
The first Nowell the Angel did say
Was to three poor Shepherds in the fields as they lay;
In fields where they lay keeping their sheep
In a cold winter's night that was so deep.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
They looked up and saw a Star
Shining in the East beyond them far,
And to the earth it gave great light,
And so it continued both day and night.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
And by the light of that same Star,
Three Wise Men came from country far;
To seek for a King was their intent,
And to follow the Star wherever it went.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
This Star drew nigh to the North West,
O'er Bethlehem it took its rest,
And there it did both stop and stay
Right over the place where Jesus lay.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
Then did they know assuredly
Within the house the King did lie:
One entered in then for to see,
And found the Babe in poverty.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
Then enter'd in those Wise Men three
Most reverently upon their knee,
And offer'd there in his presence,
Both gold, and myrrh, and frankincense.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
Between an ox stall and an ass,
This Child truly there born he was;
For want of clothing they did him lay
All in the manger, among the hay.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
Then let us all with one accord
Sing praises to our heavenly Lord,
That hath made heaven and earth of nought,
And with his blood mankind hath bought.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
If we in our time shall do well,
We shall be free from death and Hell,
For God hath prepared for us all
A resting place in general.
Nowell, Nowell, Nowell, Nowell,
Born is the King of Israel.
Hark, how all the welkin rings,
"Glory to the King of kings;
Peace on earth, and mercy mild,
God and sinners reconcil'd!"
Joyful, all ye nations, rise,
Join the triumph of the skies;
Universal nature say,
"Christ the Lord is born to-day!"
Christ, by highest Heaven ador'd,
Christ, the everlasting Lord:
Late in time behold him come,
Offspring of a virgin's womb!
Veil'd in flesh, the Godhead see,
Hail th' incarnate Deity!
Pleas'd as man with men to appear,
Jesus, our Immanuel here!
Hail, the heavenly Prince of Peace,
Hail, the Sun of Righteousness!
Light and life to all he brings,
Risen with healing in his wings.
Mild he lays his glory by,
Born that man no more may die;
Born to raise the sons of earth;
Born to give them second birth.
Come, desire of nations, come,
Fix in us thy humble home;
Rise, the woman's conquering seed,
Bruise in us the serpent's head.
Now display thy saving power,
Ruin'd nature now restore;
Now in mystic union join
Thine to ours, and ours to thine.
Adam's likeness, Lord, efface,
Stamp thy image in its place.
Second Adam from above,
Reinstate us in thy love.
Let us thee, though lost, regain,
Thee, the life, the inner man:
O, to all thyself impart,
Form'd in each believing heart.
From our happy home
Through the world we roam
One week in all the year,
Making winter spring
With the joy we bring
For Christmas-tide is here.
Now the eastern star
Shines from afar
To light the poorest home;
Hearts warmer grow,
Gifts freely flow,
For Christmas-tide has come.
Now gay trees rise
Before young eyes,
Abloom with tempting cheer;
Blithe voices sing,
And blithe bells ring,
For Christmas-tide is here.
Oh, happy chime,
Oh, blessed time,
That draws us all so near!
"Welcome, dear day,"
All creatures say,
For Christmas-tide is here.
After dark
Near the South Dakota border,
The moon is out hunting, everywhere,
Delivering fire,
And walking down hallways
Of a diamond.
Behind a tree,
It ights on the ruins
Of a white city
Frost, frost.
Where are they gone
Who lived there?
Bundled away under wings
And dark faces.
I am sick
Of it, and I go on
Living, alone, alone,
Past the charred silos, past the hidden graves
Of Chippewas and Norwegians.
This cold winter
Moon spills the inhuman fire
Of jewels
Into my hands.
Dead riches, dead hands, the moon
Darkens,
And I am lost in the beautiful white ruins
Of America.
I heard the bells on Christmas day
Their old familiar carols play,
And wild and sweet the words repeat
Of peace on earth, good will to men.
I thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom
Had rolled along th'unbroken song
Of peace on earth, good will to men.
And in despair I bowed my head:
'There is no peace on earth, ' I said
'For hate is strong, and mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good will to men.'
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
'God is not dead, nor doth He sleep;
The wrong shall fail, the right prevail,
With peace on earth, good will to men.'
Till, ringing, singing on its way,
The world revolved from night to day
A voice, a chime, a chant sublime,
Of peace on earth, good will to men.
Dear Mum,
Sitting here I wondered why I won't be home for Christmas
the lads and me in company C feel sorry for those who'll miss us
on far off shores we'll keep the peace with hope and understanding
but God can sometimes make his lost son's birthday quite demanding,
The captain said the new year looks good for some recreation
the Scots lads hope he means going home for new year celebrations
they're not a bad bunch, sometimes rough, but hearts in the right places
I miss you all and love you, hope you have a merry Christmas,
Tell the folks I miss them say I'll get there when I can
but I've got work to do here I'm sure they'll understand
the Holy lands not far away just now from where I'm sitting
and the distant gunfire sounds like the christmas crackers I'll be missing,
The desert stars are so bright you'd believe there's peace on earth
and I feel like a hypocrite with guns on Jesus's birth
tomorrow we go on patrol in search of insurrection
I'm sure if Jesus had his say, he'd have plenty of objections,
The lads and me are doing what we can with what we've got
we even made a Christmas tree from an axle and some pots
on Christmas day we have a service in the padre's tent
Christmas dinner is provided in a tin the army sent,
When you hand out your presents we'll pass round the ammunition
the Santa outfit dad wears is nothing like the one I'm wearing
give my sister all my love and smother her with kisses
but I'm sorry to inform you that I won't be home for Christmas.
Father calls me William, sister calls me Will,
Mother calls me Willie, but the fellers call me Bill!
Mighty glad I ain't a girl - ruther be a boy,
Without them sashes, curls, an' things that's worn by Fauntleroy!
Love to chawnk green apples an' go swimmin' in the lake -
Hate to take the castor-ile they give for bellyache!
'Most all the time, the whole year round, there ain't no flies on me,
But jest 'fore Christmas I'm as good as I kin be!
Got a yeller dog named Sport, sick him on the cat;
First thing she knows she doesn't know where she is at!
Got a clipper sled, an' when us kids goes out to slide,
'Long comes the grocery cart, an' we all hook a ride!
But sometimes when the grocery man is worrited an' cross,
He reaches at us with his whip, an' larrups up his hoss,
An' then I laff an' holler, "Oh, ye never teched me!"
But jest 'fore Christmas I'm as good as I kin be!
Gran'ma says she hopes that when I git to be a man,
I'll be a missionarer like her oldest brother, Dan,
As was et up by the cannibuls that lives in Ceylon's Isle,
Where every prospeck pleases, an' only man is vile!
But gran'ma she has never been to see a Wild West show,
Nor read the Life of Daniel Boone, or else I guess she'd know
That Buff'lo Bill an' cow-boys is good enough for me!
Excep' jest 'fore Christmas, when I'm good as I kin be!
And then old Sport he hangs around, so solemn-like an' still,
His eyes they seem a-sayin': "What's the matter, little Bill?"
The old cat sneaks down off her perch an' wonders what's become
Of them two enemies of hern that used to make things hum!
But I am so perlite an' 'tend so earnestly to biz,
That mother says to father: "How improved our Willie is!"
But father, havin' been a boy hisself, suspicions me
When, jest 'fore Christmas, I'm as good as I kin be!
For Christmas, with its lots an' lots of candies, cakes, an' toys,
Was made, they say, for proper kids an' not for naughty boys;
So wash yer face an' bresh yer hair, an' mind yer p's and q's,
An' don't bust out yer pantaloons, and don't wear out yer shoes;
Say "Yessum" to the ladies, an' "Yessur" to the men,
An' when they's company, don't pass yer plate for pie again;
But, thinkin' of the things yer'd like to see upon that tree,
Jest 'fore Christmas be as good as yer kin be!
Hvo minnes ikke
et vær, han tror, ei himlen mer kan skikke?
et vær som om hver sjel, fra Kains til den,
Gud sist fordømte,
den jord forbannet, fra helvete rømte,
som fristet dem å svike himmelen?....
Et vær, hvis stemmes
forferdelser ei mere kan forglemmes?
Thi alle tenkte: det må være sendt
for min skyld ene;
orkanens tordner meg kun meg de mene;
min synd er blitt åndene bekjent...
Et vær, hvis styrke
kan lære prest og troende å dyrke
demoner i det element, hvis brak
den gamle høre
fra barnsben kan i sitt bemoste øre
et skyens jordskjelv, luftens dommedag?
Et vær, som rystet
den sterkes hjerte i dets skjul i brystet,
et himmelvær, hvori sitt eget navn
han påropt hørte
av ånder, stormene forbi ham førte,
mens hver en tretopp hylte som en ravn?  Men ravnen gjemte
seg selv i klippen, ulven sulten temte,
og reven våget seg ikke ut.
I huset sluktes
hvert lys, og lenkehunden inneluktes....
I slikt vær, da får du bønner, Gud!
I slikt vær - det var en juleaften -
da natt det ble før dagens mål var fullt,
befant en gammel jøde, nær forkommen,
seg midt i Sverigs ørken, Tivedskogen.
Han ventedes til bygden denne side
fra bygdene på hin, for julens skyld,
av pikene med lengsel, thi i skreppen
lå spenner, bånd og alt hva de behøvde
for morgendagen, annen dag og nyttår.
Det gjorde lengselen spent, men ikke bange;
thi ennu hadde "Gamle-Jakob" aldri
dem sviktet noen jul: Han kom så visst
som juleaftenen selv.
"Tyss! var det atter stormen,
som hylte gjennom grenene? Det skrek.
Nu skriker det igjen." Og Gamle-Jakob
fluks stanser lyttende for annen gang.
Nu tier det. Thi stormen øker på,
som fossen drønner over den, der drukner.
Han vandrer atter. "Tyss! igjen en lyd!"
- en lyd, som skar igjennom skogens brusen.
"Den falske hubro skriker som et barn.
Hvo slipper barn vel ut i sådant vær?
Det gjør ei selv ulven selv med sine." Og
den gamle stolper atter frem i sneen.
Da skrek det atter, så han mer ei tviler;
thi dette stormkast, som borte alt
et snoet snetårn hvirvler over skogen,
har ført et ord, et enkelt ord forbi;
og fluks han dreier dit hvorfra det kom,
arbeidende seg dypere i skogen
og dypere i sneen og i natten,
der som en kullsort fjellvegg reiste seg
mot hvert kans skritt, av fyk kun gjennomlyst,
som om den ene hele vide skog var full
av flyvende slørhyllete gespenster,
der hylende seg stillet ham i veien,
på luftig tå seg hvirvlet, vokste reddsomt,
og så forsvant imellom stammene.
Dog kjempet oldingen seg frem mot stormen.
Han vandrer når den vokser, når den saktner
og drager ånde, lytter han på kne.
Men fluks han springer opp, og går i mulmet,
som dvergen trenger gjennom, sorte, muld.
.... Han hører intet mer. Den gamle skjelver
ved tanken, at ham onde ånder gjekker,
og mumler frem de bønner, som han vet.
Da klynker det igjen, og ganske nær;
hans eget rop mot stormen vender kun
tilbake i hans munn. Men hist, ja hist!
Ti skritt ennu! Der rører noe mørkt seg
på sneen, som om stormen lekte med
en stubbe, der var løsnet litt i roten.
"O Herre! en arm! O Herre!
et barn, et barn! Men dødt! - "
Akk, tenkte stjernene i denne natt,
da Betlehemsstjernen lyste mellom dem,
og intet godt på jorden kunne skje?
Thi ingen av dem så, at Gamle Jakob,
så glad som om en skatt han hadde funnen,
fluks kastet bort sin hele rikdom: Skreppen,
trakk av sin knappe kjole, hyllet den
om barnets lemmer, blott sitt bryst,
og la så dets kolde kinn derved
inntil det våknet av hans hjertes slag.
Da sprang han opp. Men nu hvorhen? Thi stormen
har blåst hans spor igjen. Det ei bekymret.
Thi han I tordenen i skogens topper
nu hørte Davids jubelharper kun;
ham fykene nu syntes som kjerurber,
der viste vei på svanehvite vinger,
og i det må og få, han fulgte, følte
han Herrens eget sterke fingertrekk.
Men hus på ville Tiveden å finne
I slik en natt, da lys ei turde brennes?
Og midtveis lå der kun en enkelt plass;
det lave tak ei skilles kan fra sneen,
den sorte vegg ei fra et klippestykke.
Dog stanstes ved et under han av den.
Der sank han ned. Han maktet ikke mere;
og mange vindstøt for før med sin byrde
han orkede å slepe seg til døren.
Han banket sakte først, thi barnet sov;
og nu først savnet han sin tapre skreppe,
fordi han intet eiede å give
de gode arme folk, som snarlig ville
med gjestfri hasten åpne døren. Akk,
han banket mange ganger før det svarte:
"I Jesu navn, hvem kommer der i slik en natt?"
"Den gamle Jakob. Kjenner i meg ei?
den gamle jøde?" "Jøde!" skrek forferdet
en manns- og kvinnerøst. "Da blir du ute!
Vi eier ingenting å kjøpe for,
og blott ulykke vil du bringe huset
i denne natt, da han ble født, du drepte."
"Jeg?"
"Ja, ditt folk, og det er synden, som
igjennom tusen ledd skal straffes."
"Akk!
I natt da hunden lukkes inn?"
"ja, hunden,
men ingen jøde i et kristent hus."
Han hørte ikke mer. De hårde ord
ham koldere enn vinden gjennomhvinte,
og slengte, sterkere enn dem, ham ned
i sneen, bøyet over barnets slummer.
Da syntes ham, mens han mot vinduet stirret,
om ei det hvite ansikt atter kom
til syne dog, som om han sank i dun,
at liflig varme gjennomfløt hans årer,
og at bekjente vesner, hviskende
som sommervindens eolsspill i gresset,
omsvevede hans leie, inntil en
med løftet finger sa: kom! han sover.
Og i en opplyst sal ved siden av
forsvant de alle; barnet kun forble der
ved foten av hans leie, dragende
hans puter stetse bedre om ham, til
det forekom ham selv, at han sov inn.
- Der sneen var, som vokste om den døde.
"O Jesus! Jøden sitter der ennu!"
skrek mannen, da han så om morgnen ut.
"Så jag ham bort! Det er jo juledag,"
falt konen inn. "Og se den jødeskjelm,
hvor fast han holder bylten klemt til brystet!"
"Han er påtrengende med sine varer.
Med stive blikk han ser herinn, som om
vi hadde penger nok å kjøpe for."
"Dog gadd jeg se hva han i bylten har."
"Vis frem da, jøde!"
Begge tren de ut.
Den frosne glans de så I likets øyne.
De bleknet mer enn det, de skrek av skrekk,
og skalv av angrens slag.
"O Jemini!
Hva uhell her er hendt!"
De opp ham reiste,
og bylten fulgte med. De åpnet kjolen.
Der hang, med armene om jødens hals,
Margrethe, deres barn - et lik som han.
Så slår ei lyn, så rappe orm ei biter,
som skrekk og smerte ekteparet slo.
Så blek som faderen var ei sneen,
så hylte stormen ei som moderen.
"O Gud har straffet oss! Ei stormens kulde,
vår egen grusomhet har drept vårt barn!
Forgjeves! akk, som jøden på vår dør
på nådens ville vi forgjeves banke."
Da skogen veibar ble, kom bud fra gården,
hvor lille Gretha fostredes i legd,
og hvorfra hun, da helgen inn ble ringet,
før været kom, var vandret av seg selv,
foreldrene å gjeste juleaften.
Dog kom det ei å spørre efter barnet,
men efter jøden fra bygdens piker,
hvis håp nu til å kunne gjeste kirken
kun stod til nyttårsdagen, om han fantes.
Der lå han død I stuen foran arnen,
hvor mannen med et blikk som jødens frosne,
og I en stilling krum som likets, satt,
I bålets røde aske stirrende
og stetse økende dets brann, at liket
dog kunne blive strakt og hånden korslagt.
Men foran lå på kne Margrethes moder,
sin lilles stive armer bøyende
bestandig fastere om likets hals.
"Hun ei tilhører mere oss" hun hulket,
"Han har vårt barn seg tilkjøpt for sin død.
Vi tør ei skille liten Greta fra ham;
thi hun for oss må bede Jesus om
hans forbønn hos sin fader; thi for ham
vil arme jøde klage - -"
May all my enemies go to hell,
Noel, Noel, Noel, Noel.
'Tis Christmas weather, and a country house
Receives us: rooms are full: we can but get
An attic-crib. Such lovers will not fret
At that, it is half-said. The great carouse
Knocks hard upon the midnight's hollow door,
But when I knock at hers, I see the pit.
Why did I come here in that dullard fit?
I enter, and lie couched upon the floor.
Passing, I caught the coverlet's quick beat:--
Come, Shame, burn to my soul! and Pride, and Pain--
Foul demons that have tortured me, enchain!
Out in the freezing darkness the lambs bleat.
The small bird stiffens in the low starlight.
I know not how, but shuddering as I slept,
I dreamed a banished angel to me crept:
My feet were nourished on her breasts all night.
Music I love -­ but never strain
Could kindle raptures so divine,
So grief assuage, so conquer pain,
And rouse this pensive heart of mine -­
As that we hear on Christmas morn,
Upon the wintry breezes borne.
Though Darkness still her empire keep,
And hours must pass, ere morning break;
From troubled dreams, or slumbers deep,
That music kindly bids us wake:
It calls us, with an angel's voice,
To wake, and worship, and rejoice;
To greet with joy the glorious morn,
Which angels welcomed long ago,
When our redeeming Lord was born,
To bring the light of Heaven below;
The Powers of Darkness to dispel,
And rescue Earth from Death and Hell.
While listening to that sacred strain,
My raptured spirit soars on high;
I seem to hear those songs again
Resounding through the open sky,
That kindled such divine delight,
In those who watched their flocks by night.
With them, I celebrate His birth -­
Glory to God, in highest Heaven,
Good-will to men, and peace on Earth,
To us a Saviour-king is given;
Our God is come to claim His own,
And Satan's power is overthrown!
A sinless God, for sinful men,
Descends to suffer and to bleed;
Hell must renounce its empire then;
The price is paid, the world is freed,
And Satan's self must now confess,
That Christ has earned a Right to bless:
Now holy Peace may smile from heaven,
And heavenly Truth from earth shall spring:
The captive's galling bonds are riven,
For our Redeemer is our king;
And He that gave his blood for men
Will lead us home to God again.
Acton
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
With dark green needled memories
Of childhood dreams and mysteries
Wrapped present-like in front of me.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
I glimpse a past wherein i see
The child that then grew into me
Not forward fast but haltingly.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
A time for being with family
A time that's gone so fleetingly
Yet lives for always deep in me.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
When twelfth night comes whole hauntingly
One lingered look and then i see
No Christmas tree where it would be.
A Christmas tree! A Christmas tree!
With feelings now felt tearfully
No home, no kids surrounding me
No corner in my house to see
The magic of that Christmas tree.
Once upon a Christmas Day,
A sense of cheer and  joy  were in the air,
Music aroused the spirit everywhere.
Decorated trees and colorful lights strung,
On the mantel the children's stockings hung.
Once upon a Christmas Day,
Greetings were extended with smiling faces,
Fond thoughts that my memory embraces,
Many wrapped gifts in full array,
An annual tradition on this Holy Day.
Once upon a Christmas Day,
Carolers were singing from afar,
While in the heaven appeared a bright star.
This Christmas came on a snowy day
Leaving memories that will forever stay.
In byre and barn the mows are brim with sheaves,
Where stealeth in with phosphorescent tread
The glimmering moon, and, ’neath his wattled eaves,
The kennelled hound unto the darkness grieves
His chilly straw, and from his gloom-lit shed,
The wakeful cock proclaims the midnight dread.
With mullioned windows, ’mid its skeleton trees,
Beneath the moon the ancient manor stands,
Old gables rattle in the midnight breeze,
Old elms make answer to the moaning seas
Beyond the moorlands, on the wintry sands,
While drives the gust along the leafless lands.
Our Christmas tree, stood straight and tall,
We had it standing in the hall,
With decorations, sparkling bright,
And baubles, glittering in the light,
Rich tinsel laced around branches wide,
With bells and bows, that could be spied
Hiding among the dark green pine,
In silver and gold, boldly they did shine,
And at the very top, such a wondrous sight,
A star was placed there, which gave delight.
The whole effect so pleasured the eye.
We planted it outside, now it's 18 feet high.
This year it will once again, be a thrill,
Hung with big coloured lights, in the crisp winter chill.
©   Ernestine Northover
They let the children out of school too early.
I left the Christmas shopping till too late.
Each day we had a holiday excursion,
Which gave us the entire week to wait in line for
Movies by Disney,
Gift-wrapping by Lord & Taylor,
And everyone's restrooms.
On Christmas Eve we started to assemble
The easy-to-assemble telescope
And fire truck with forty-seven pieces.
By midnight it was plain there was no hope without
An astronomer,
A mechanical engineer,
And two psychiatrists.
We rose at dawn to three boys singing Rudolph.
We listened numbly to their shouts of glee.
The kitten threw up tinsel on the carpet.
The fire truck collided with the tree, requiring
One rug shampoo,
Several Band-aids,
And Scotch before breakfast.
I bought my husband shirts - wrong size, wrong colors,
And ties he said he couldn't be caught dead in.
I'd hinted Saint Laurent or something furry.
He bought me flannel gowns to go to bed in, also
A Teflon frying pan,
A plaid valise,
And The Weight Watchers Cook Book.
The turkey was still frozen at eleven.
At noon my eldest boy spilled Elmer's glue.
At five I had a swell Excedrin headache,
The kind that lasts till January two...but
Merry Christmas
And Happy New Year,
I think.
It was Christmas Day in the trenches
In Spain in Penninsular War,
And Sam Small were cleaning his musket
A thing as he'd ne're done before.
They'd had 'em inspected that morning
And Sam had got into disgrace,
For when sergeant had looked down the barrel
A sparrow flew out in his face.
The sergeant reported the matter
To Lieutenant Bird then and there.
Said Lieutenant 'How very disgusting'
The Duke must be told of this 'ere.'
The Duke were upset when he heard
He said, 'I'm astonished, I am.
I must make a most drastic example
There'll be no Christmas pudding for Sam.'
When Sam were informed of his sentence
Surprise, rooted him to the spot.
'Twas much worse than he had expected,
He though as he'd only be shot.
And so he sat cleaning his musket
And polishing barrel and butt.
While the pudding his mother had sent him,
Lay there in the mud at his foot.
Now the centre that Sam's lot were holding
Ran around a place called Badajoz.
Where the Spaniards had put up a bastion
And ooh...! what a bastion it was.
They pounded away all the morning
With canister, grape shot and ball.
But the face of the bastion defied them,
They made no impression at all.
They started again after dinner
Bombarding as hard as they could.
And the Duke brought his own private cannon
But that weren't a ha'pence o' good.
The Duke said, 'Sam, put down thy musket
And help me lay this gun true.'
Sam answered, 'You'd best ask your favours
From them as you give pudding to.'
The Duke looked at Sam so reproachful
'And don't take it that way,' said he.
'Us Generals have got to be ruthless
It hurts me more than it did thee.'
Sam sniffed at these words kind of sceptic,
Then looked down the Duke's private gun.
And said 'We'd best put in two charges,
We'll never bust bastion with one.'
He tipped cannon ball out of muzzle
He took out the wadding and all.
He filled barrel chock full of powder,
Then picked up and replaced the ball.
He took a good aim at the bastion
Then said 'Right-o, Duke, let her fly.'
The cannon nigh jumped off her trunnions,
And up went the bastion, sky high.
The Duke, he weren't 'alf elated
He danced around trench full of glee.
And said, 'Sam, for this gallant action.
You can hot up your pudding for tea.'
Sam looked 'round to pick up his pudding
But it wasn't there, nowhere about.
In the place where he thought he had left it,
Lay the cannon ball he'd just tipped out.
Sam saw in a flash what 'ad happened:
By an unprecedented mishap.
The pudding his mother had sent him,
Had blown Badajoz off map.
That's why fuisilliers wear to this moment
A badge which they think's a grenade.
But they're wrong... it's a brass reproduction,
Of the pudding Sam's mother once made.
And wilt thou hear the fevered heart
To Thee in silence cry?
And as th' inconstant wildfires dart
Out of the restless eye,
Wilt thou forgive the wayward though
By kindly woes yet half untaught
A Saviours right, so dearly bought,
That Hope should never die?
Thou wilt:  for many a languid prayer
Has reached Thee from the wild,
Since the lorn mother, wandering there,
Cast down her fainting child,
Then stole apart to weep and die,
Nor knew an angel form was nigh,
To show soft waters gushing by,
And dewy shadows mild.
Thou wilt--for Thou art Israel's God,
And Thine unwearied arm
Is ready yet with Moses' rod,
The hidden rill to charm
Out of the dry unfathomed deep
Of sands, that lie in lifeless sleep,
Save when the scorching whirlwinds heap
Their waves in rude alarm.
These moments of wild wrath are Thine -
Thine, too, the drearier hour
When o'er th' horizon's silent line
Fond hopeless fancies cower,
And on the traveller's listless way
Rises and sets th' unchanging day,
No cloud in heaven to slake its ray,
On earth no sheltering bower.
Thou wilt be there, and not forsake,
To turn the bitter pool
Into a bright and breezy lake,
This throbbing brow to cool:
Till loft awhile with Thee alone
The wilful heart be fain to own
That He, by whom our bright hours shone,
Our darkness best may rule.
The scent of water far away
Upon the breeze is flung;
The desert pelican to-day
Securely leaves her young,
Reproving thankless man, who fears
To journey on a few lone years,
Where on the sand Thy step appears,
Thy crown in sight is hung.
Thou, who did sit on Jacob's well
The weary hour of noon,
The languid pulses Thou canst tell,
The nerveless spirit tune.
Thou from Whose cross in anguish burst
The cry that owned Thy dying thirst,
To Thee we turn, our Last and First,
Our Sun and soothing Moon.
From darkness, here, and dreariness
We ask not full repose,
Only be Thou at hand, to bless
Our trial hour of woes.
Is not the pilgrim's toil o'erpaid
By the clear rill and palmy shade?
And see we not, up Earth's dark glade,
The gate of Heaven unclose?
It is the longest night in all the year,
Near on the day when the Lord Christ was born;
Six hours ago I came and sat down here,
And ponder'd sadly, wearied and forlorn.
The winter wind that pass'd the chapel door,
Sang out a moody tune, that went right well
With mine own thoughts: I look'd down on the floor,
Between my feet, until I heard a bell
Sound a long way off through the forest deep,
And toll on steadily; a drowsiness
Came on me, so that I fell half asleep,
As I sat there not moving: less and less
I saw the melted snow that hung in beads
Upon my steel-shoes; less and less I saw
Between the tiles the bunches of small weeds:
Heartless and stupid, with no touch of awe
Upon me, half-shut eyes upon the ground,
I thought: O Galahad! the days go by,
Stop and cast up now that which you have found,
So sorely you have wrought and painfully.
Night after night your horse treads down alone
The sere damp fern, night after night you sit
Holding the bridle like a man of stone,
Dismal, unfriended: what thing comes of it?
And what if Palomydes also ride,
And over many a mountain and bare heath
Follow the questing beast with none beside?
Is he not able still to hold his breath
With thoughts of Iseult? doth he not grow pale
With weary striving, to seem best of all
To her, "as she is best," he saith? to fail
Is nothing to him, he can never fall.
For unto such a man love-sorrow is
So dear a thing unto his constant heart,
That even if he never win one kiss,
Or touch from Iseult, it will never part.
And he will never know her to be worse
Than in his happiest dreams he thinks she is:
Good knight, and faithful, you have 'scaped the curse
In wonderful-wise; you have great store of bliss.
Yea, what if Father Launcelot ride out,
Can he not think of Guenevere's arms, round
Warm and lithe, about his neck, and shout
Till all the place grows joyful with the sound?
And when he lists can often see her face,
And think, "Next month I kiss you, or next week,
And still you think of me": therefore the place
Grows very pleasant, whatsoever he seek.
But me, who ride alone, some carle shall find
Dead in my arms in the half-melted snow,
When all unkindly with the shifting wind,
The thaw comes on at Candlemas: I know
Indeed that they will say: "This Galahad
If he had lived had been a right good knight;
Ah! poor chaste body!" but they will be glad,
Not most alone, but all, when in their sight
That very evening in their scarlet sleeves
The gay-dress'd minstrels sing; no maid will talk
Of sitting on my tomb, until the leaves,
Grown big upon the bushes of the walk,
East of the Palace-pleasaunce, make it hard
To see the minster therefrom: well-a-day!
Before the trees by autumn were well bared,
I saw a damozel with gentle play,
Within that very walk say last farewell
To her dear knight, just riding out to find
(Why should I choke to say it?) the Sangreal,
And their last kisses sunk into my mind,
Yea, for she stood lean'd forward on his breast,
Rather, scarce stood; the back of one dear hand,
That it might well be kiss'd, she held and press'd
Against his lips; long time they stood there, fann'd
By gentle gusts of quiet frosty wind,
Till Mador de la porte a-going by,
And my own horsehoofs roused them; they untwined,
And parted like a dream. In this way I,
With sleepy face bent to the chapel floor,
Kept musing half asleep, till suddenly
A sharp bell rang from close beside the door,
And I leapt up when something pass'd me by,
Shrill ringing going with it, still half blind
I stagger'd after, a great sense of awe
At every step kept gathering on my mind,
Thereat I have no marvel, for I saw
One sitting on the altar as a throne,
Whose face no man could say he did not know,
And though the bell still rang, he sat alone,
With raiment half blood-red, half white as snow.
Right so I fell upon the floor and knelt,
Not as one kneels in church when mass is said,
But in a heap, quite nerveless, for I felt
The first time what a thing was perfect dread.
But mightily the gentle voice came down:
"Rise up, and look and listen, Galahad,
Good knight of God, for you will see no frown
Upon my face; I come to make you glad.
"For that you say that you are all alone,
I will be with you always, and fear not
You are uncared for, though no maiden moan
Above your empty tomb; for Launcelot,
"He in good time shall be my servant too,
Meantime, take note whose sword first made him knight,
And who has loved him alway, yea, and who
Still trusts him alway, though in all men's sight,
"He is just what you know, O Galahad,
This love is happy even as you say,
But would you for a little time be glad,
To make ME sorry long, day after day?
"Her warm arms round his neck half throttle ME,
The hot love-tears burn deep like spots of lead,
Yea, and the years pass quick: right dismally
Will Launcelot at one time hang his head;
"Yea, old and shrivell'd he shall win my love.
Poor Palomydes fretting out his soul!
Not always is he able, son, to move
His love, and do it honour: needs must roll
"The proudest destrier sometimes in the dust,
And then 'tis weary work; he strives beside
Seem better than he is, so that his trust
Is always on what chances may betide;
"And so he wears away, my servant, too,
When all these things are gone, and wretchedly
He sits and longs to moan for Iseult, who
Is no care now to Palomydes: see,
"O good son, Galahad, upon this day,
Now even, all these things are on your side,
But these you fight not for; look up, I say,
And see how I can love you, for no pride
"Closes your eyes, no vain lust keeps them down.
See now you have ME always; following
That holy vision, Galahad, go on,
Until at last you come to ME to sing
"In Heaven always, and to walk around
The garden where I am." He ceased, my face
And wretched body fell upon the ground;
And when I look'd again, the holy place
Was empty; but right so the bell again
Came to the chapel-door, there entered
Two angels first, in white, without a stain,
And scarlet wings, then, after them, a bed
Four ladies bore, and set it down beneath
The very altar-step, and while for fear
I scarcely dared to move or draw my breath,
Those holy ladies gently came a-near,
And quite unarm'd me, saying: "Galahad,
Rest here awhile and sleep, and take no thought
Of any other thing than being glad;
Hither the Sangreal will be shortly brought,
"Yet must you sleep the while it stayeth here."
Right so they went away, and I, being weary,
Slept long and dream'd of Heaven: the bell comes near,
I doubt it grows to morning. Miserere!
[Enter Two Angels in white, with scarlet wings; also, Four Ladies in gowns of red and green; also an Angel, bearing in his hands a surcoat of white, with a red cross.]
AN ANGEL
O servant of the high God, Galahad!
Rise and be arm'd: the Sangreal is gone forth
Through the great forest, and you must be had
Unto the sea that lieth on the north:
There shall you find the wondrous ship wherein
The spindles of King Solomon are laid,
And the sword that no man draweth without sin,
But if he be most pure: and there is stay'd,
Hard by, Sir Launcelot, whom you will meet
In some short space upon that ship: first, though,
Will come here presently that lady sweet,
Sister of Percival, whom you well know,
And with her Bors and Percival: stand now,
These ladies will to arm you.
[FIRST LADY, putting on the hauberk]
Galahad,
That I may stand so close beneath your brow,
Margaret of Antioch, am glad.
[SECOND LADY, girding him with the sword.]
That I may stand and touch you with my hand,
O Galahad, I, Cecily, am glad.
[THIRD LADY, buckling on the spurs.]
That I may kneel while up above you stand,
And gaze at me, O holy Galahad,
I, Lucy, am most glad.
[FOURTH LADY, putting on the basnet.]
O gentle knight,
That you bow down to us in reverence,
We are most glad, I, Katherine, with delight
Must needs fall trembling.
[ANGEL, putting on the crossed surcoat.]
Galahad, we go hence,
For here, amid the straying of the snow,
Come Percival's sister, Bors, and Percival.
[The Four Ladies carry out the bed, and all go but Galahad.]
GALAHAD.
How still and quiet everything seems now:
They come, too, for I hear the horsehoofs fall.
[Enter Sir Bors, Sir Percival and his Sister.]
Fair friends and gentle lady, God you save!
A many marvels have been here to-night;
Tell me what news of Launcelot you have,
And has God's body ever been in sight?
SIR BORS.
Why, as for seeing that same holy thing,
As we were riding slowly side by side,
An hour ago, we heard a sweet voice sing,
And through the bare twigs saw a great light glide,
With many-colour'd raiment, but far off;
And so pass'd quickly: from the court nought good;
Poor merry Dinadan, that with jape and scoff
Kept us all merry, in a little wood
Was found all hack'd and dead: Sir Lionel
And Gauwaine have come back from the great quest,
Just merely shamed; and Lauvaine, who loved well
Your father Launcelot, at the king's behest
Went out to seek him, but was almost slain,
Perhaps is dead now; everywhere
The knights come foil'd from the great quest, in vain;
In vain they struggle for the vision fair.
There is something about Christmas,
In Santa Claus and twinkling trees,
In the joy and laughter of every child,
People kneeling in prayer on arthritic knees.
There is something about Christmas,
Though many wishes and dreams may fail.
It is something we have learned to accept
Through each Yuletide trail.
There is something about Christmas,
Something that overwhelms the heart,
And it is displayed in every household
Of thoughtful and gentle people miles apart.
There is something about Christmas,
A magnificent day for old and young,
For it seems that people are more pleasant
When the traditional carols are sung.
There is something about Christmas,
A day of grace and visions of peace
And nothing on earth can destroy it.
Joy and peace on earth will never cease.
There is something about Christmas
When church bells ring and candles glow,
Signaling that Christ was born in a manger
In the holy city of Bethlehem - years ago.
Take the wise men to the Emperor's palace.
Wash their hands in water.
Get them to say something about truth.
Does anyone know any good Jewish jokes?
The one about a carpenter
who thought he was a King?
The one about the Saviour
who couldn't save himself?
The shepherds should stand with the chorus.
They have a big production number -
'Barabbas, We Love You Baby'.
Mary? She can move to the front.
We have a special section reserved
for family and close friends.
Tell her that we had to cut the manger up.
We needed the wood for something else.
The star I'm afraid I can't use.
There are no stars in this show.
The sky turns black with sorrow.
The earth shakes with terror.
Hold on to the frankincense.
We'll need that for the garden scene.
Angels? He could do with some angels.
Avenging angels.
Merciful angels.
He could really do with some angels.
Baby Jesus.
Step this way please.
My! How you've grown!
When Christmas comes the  Christmas heat'll
bring once more the Christmas Beetle
The first inflammatory breeze'll
set him buzzing like a diesel.
Hear him open up his throttle
as he hums above the wattle!
Hear him zoom, and snarl and rattle
Like a fighter plane in battle!
Watch him dive to sink and settle-
Folding up his wings of metal -
Cutting off the engines sound
as quietly as he comes to ground.
Then watch some sparrows, frail and lowly,
Strike him swiftly, rend him wholly.
THIS box, mine own sweet darling, thou wilt find
With many a varied sweetmeat's form supplied;
The fruits are they of holy Christmas tide,
But baked indeed, for children's use design'd.
I'd fain, in speeches sweet with skill combin'd,
Poetic sweetmeats for the feast provide;
But why in such frivolities confide?
Perish the thought, with flattery to blind!
One sweet thing there is still, that from within,
Within us speaks,--that may be felt afar;
This may be wafted o'er to thee alone.
If thou a recollection fond canst win,
As if with pleasure gleam'd each well-known star,
The smallest gift thou never wilt disown.
Mr. Smiggs was a gentleman,
And he lived in London town;
His wife she was a good kind soul,
And seldom known to frown.
'Twas on Christmas eve,
And Smiggs and his wife lay cosy in bed,
When the thought of buying a goose
Came into his head.
So the next morning,
Just as the sun rose,
He jump'd out of bed,
And he donn'd his clothes,
Saying, "Peggy, my dear.
You need not frown,
For I'll buy you the best goose
In all London town."
So away to the poultry shop he goes,
And bought the goose, as he did propose,
And for it he paid one crown,
The finest, he thought, in London town.
When Smiggs bought the goose
He suspected no harm,
But a naughty boy stole it
From under his arm.
Then Smiggs he cried, "Stop, thief!
Come back with my goose!"
But the naughty boy laugh'd at him,
And gave him much abuse.
But a policeman captur'd the naughty boy,
And gave the goose to Smiggs,
And said he was greatly bother'd
By a set of juvenile prigs.
So the naughty boy was put in prison
For stealing the goose.,
And got ten days' confinement
Before he got loose.
So Smiggs ran home to his dear Peggy,
Saying, "Hurry, and get this fat goose ready,
That I have bought for one crown;
So, my darling, you need not frown."
"Dear Mr Smiggs, I will not frown:
I'm sure 'tis cheap for one crown,
Especially at Christmas time --
Oh! Mr Smiggs, it's really fine."
"Peggy. it is Christmas time,
So let us drive dull care away,
For we have got a Christmas goose,
So cook it well, I pray.
"No matter how the poor are clothed,
Or if they starve at home,
We'll drink our wine, and eat our goose,
Aye, and pick it to the bone."
The Christmas homes of England!
How far-famed and how dear;
In bright array they ever stand,
That glad day of the year;
When gathered round the hearth-stone,
The loved ones joyful meet,
With one accord from far and near,
The circle glad to greet.
The Christmas homes of England!
O, many a joyous brow,
Which ever yet hath hailed that day,
Will sorrowfully bow,
When this one now returneth;
For they look, but look in vain,
The pride and joy of that glad home,
They ne'er shall see again!
The Christmas homes of England!
In manhood's noblest bloom,
On Alma's bloody fields thy lords
Have found their lowly tomb;
The warrior grey, whose stalwart arm
Had prostrate laid the foe;
And gallant sons of noble sires,
By them in death lie low!
The Christmas homes of England!
Alike in peasant's cot,
Where hath the death-wail not been heard,
Where hath it entered not?
And the widowed mother silent weeps,
And sheds the bitter tear,
As fancy sees her gallant boy,
The cold ground for his bier!
The Christmas homes of England!
In that far-off Eastern land,
What thoughts will be awakened
Among that gallant band?
How from scenes so dark and fearful,
Their spirit will take flight
To the bright home of their childhood,
And the happy Christmas night!
The Christmas homes of England!
The love of many years
Is turned into a ceaseless fount
Of bitterness and tears;
The mother and the widow,
The maiden and the child,
They call; but none shall answer,
Those loving accents mild!
O, Christmas homes of England!
There's One, the widow's God!
Who, while He chastens, pitieth
The sad ones 'neath His rod;
His arm beneath supported
Thy loved ones in the field,
And whispered, "Leave thy little ones
To me, their God, their shield!
O, Christmas homes of England!
Let all unite in prayer,
That He, the widow's God, may take
Such to His special care;
And we to whom he spareth
Our hearts best treasure yet;
The widow and the orphan,
O let us not forget!
Wrapped was the world in slumber deep,
By seaward valley and cedarn steep,
And bright and blest were the dreams of its sleep;
All the hours of that wonderful night-tide through
The stars outblossomed in fields of blue,
A heavenly chaplet, to diadem
The King in the manger of Bethlehem.
Out on the hills the shepherds lay,
Wakeful, that never a lamb might stray,
Humble and clean of heart were they;
Thus it was given them to hear
Marvellous harpings strange and clear,
Thus it was given them to see
The heralds of the nativity.
In the dim-lit stable the mother mild
Looked with holy eyes on her child,
Cradled him close to her heart and smiled;
Kingly purple nor crown had he,
Never a trapping of royalty;
But Mary saw that the baby's head
With a slender nimbus was garlanded.
Speechless her joy as she watched him there,
Forgetful of pain and grief and care,
And every thought in her soul was a prayer;
While under the dome of the desert sky
The Kings of the East from afar drew nigh,
And the great white star that was guide to them
Kept ward o'er the manger of Bethlehem.
In the dark and damp of the alley cold,
Lay the Christmas tree that hadn't been sold;
By a shopman dourly thrown outside;
With the ruck and rubble of Christmas-tide;
Trodden deep in the muck and mire,
Unworthy even to feed a fire...
So I stopped and salvaged that tarnished tree,
And thus is the story it told to me:
"My Mother was Queen of the forest glade,
And proudly I prospered in her shade;
For she said to me: 'When I am dead,
You will be monarch in my stead,
And reign, as I, for a hundred years,
A tower of triumph amid your peers,
When I crash in storm I will yield you space;
Son, you will worthily take my place.'
"So I grew in grace like a happy child,
In the heart of the forest free and wild;
And the moss and the ferns were all about,
And the craintive mice crept in and out;
And a wood-dove swung on my highest twig,
And a chipmunk chattered: 'So big! So big!'
And a shy fawn nibbled a tender shoot,
And a rabbit nibbled under my root...
Oh, I was happy in rain and shine
As I thought of the destiny that was mine!
Then a man with an axe came cruising by
And I knew that my fate was to fall and die.
"With a hundred others he packed me tight,
And we drove to a magic city of light,
To an avenue lined with Christmas trees,
And I thought: may be I'll be one of these,
Tinselled  with silver and tricked with gold,
A lovely sight for a child to behold;
A-glitter with lights of every hue,
Ruby and emerald, orange and blue,
And kiddies dancing, with shrieks of glee -
One might fare worse than a Christmas tree.
"So they stood me up with a hundred more
In the blaze of a big department store;
But I thought of the forest dark and still,
And the dew and the snow and the heat and the chill,
And the soft chinook and the summer breeze,
And the dappled deer and the birds and the bees...
I was so homesick I wanted to cry,
But patient I waited for someone to buy.
And some said 'Too big,' and some 'Too small,'
And some passed on saying nothing at all.
Then a little boy cried: Ma, buy that one,'
But she shook her head: 'Too dear, my son."
So the evening came, when they closed the store,
And I was left on the littered floor,
A tree unwanted, despised, unsold,
Thrown out at last in the alley cold."
Then I said: "Don't sorrow; at least you'll be
A bright and beautiful New Year's tree,
All shimmer and glimmer and glow and gleam,
A radiant sight like a fairy dream.
For there is a little child I know,
Who lives in poverty, want  and woe;
Who lies abed from morn to night,
And never has known an hour's delight..."
So I stood the tree at the foot of her bed:
"Santa's a little late," I said.
"Poor old chap! Snowbound on the way,
But he's here at last, so let's be gay."
Then she woke from sleep and she saw you there,
And her eyes were love and her lips were prayer.
And her thin little arms were stretched to you
With a yearning joy that they never knew.
She woke from the darkest dark to see
Like a heavenly vision, that Christmas Tree.
Her mother despaired and feared the end,
But from that day she began to mend,
To play, to sing, to laugh with glee...
Bless you, O little Christmas Tree!
You died, but your life was not in vain:
You helped a child to forget her pain,
And let hope live in our hearts again.
You were never told, Mother, how old Illyawas drunk
That last holiday, for five days and nights
He stumbled through Petersburg forming
A choir of mutes, he dressed them in pink ascension gowns
And, then, sold Father's Tirietz stallion so to rent
A hall for his Christmas recital: the audience
Was rowdy but Illya in his black robes turned on them
And gave them that look of his; the hall fell silent
And violently he threw his hair to the side and up
Went the baton, the recital ended exactly one hour
Later when Illya suddenly turned and bowed
And his mutes bowed, and what applause and hollering
Followed.
All of his cronies were there!
Illya told us later that he thought the voices
Of mutes combine in a sound
Like wind passing through big, winter pines.
Mother, if for no other reason I regret the war
With Japan for, you must now be told,
It took the servant, Illya, from us. It was confirmed.
He would sit on the rocks by the water and with his stiletto
Open clams and pop the raw meats into his mouth
And drool and laugh at us children.
We hear guns often, now, down near the village.
Don't think me a coward, Mother, but it is comfortable
Now that I am no longer Czar. I can take pleasure
From just a cup of clear water. I hear Illya's choir often.
I teach the children about decreasing fractions, that is
A lesson best taught by the father.
Alexandra conducts the French and singing lessons.
Mother, we are again a physical couple.
I brush out her hair for her at night.
She thinks that we'll be rowing outside Geneva
By the spring. I hope she won't be disappointed.
Yesterday morning while bread was frying
In one corner, she in another washed all of her legs
Right in front of the children. I think
We became sad at her beauty. She has a purple bruise
On an ankle.
Like Illya I made her chew on mint.
Our Christmas will be in this excellent barn.
The guards flirt with your granddaughters and I see...
I see nothing wrong with it. Your little one, who is
Now a woman, made one soldier pose for her, she did
Him in charcoal, but as a bold nude. He was
Such an obvious virgin about it; he was wonderful!
Today, that same young man found us an enormous azure
And pearl samovar. Once, he called me Great Father
And got confused.
He refused to let me touch him.
I know they keep your letters from us. But, Mother,
The day they finally put them in my hands
I'll know that possessing them I am condemned
And possibly even my wife, and my children.
We will drink mint tea this evening.
Will each of us be increased by death?
With fractions as the bottom integer gets bigger, Mother, it
Represents less. That's the feeling I have about
This letter. I am at your request, The Czar.
And I am Nicholas.
'Glory to God in the highest
And on earth peace good will toward men'
Born unto a virgin was God's only begotten Son
Emmanuel (God with us)   is the title of The One
Mary's father was of Judah, the linage of a king
Mary's mother was a Levite, from Aaron's priestly string
The world beheld a brilliant star a shining in the east
The sign of Christ, The King of Kings, Lord of Lords, and High Priest
'Glory to God in the highest
And on earth peace good will toward men'
Shepherds in the field keeping watch over their flock at night
The angel of the Lord appeared and gave them such a fright
'Fear not: for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy'
For unto you is born this day, a Saviour, Christ the Roi
The Babe is wrapped in swaddling clothes, a lying in the hay
Heavenly host gave praise to God on the greatest birthday
'Glory to God in the highest
And on earth peace good will toward men'
(Luke 1: 5-36,2: 6-14,3: 23-38)
© 2011
There fared a mother driven forth
Out of an inn to roam;
In the place where she was homeless
All men are at home.
The crazy stable close at hand,
With shaking timber and shifting sand,
Grew a stronger thing to abide and stand
Than the square stones of Rome.
For men are homesick in their homes,
And strangers under the sun,
And they lay on their heads in a foreign land
Whenever the day is done.
Here we have battle and blazing eyes,
And chance and honour and high surprise,
But our homes are under miraculous skies
Where the yule tale was begun.
A Child in a foul stable,
Where the beasts feed and foam;
Only where He was homeless
Are you and I at home;
We have hands that fashion and heads that know,
But our hearts we lost - how long ago!
In a place no chart nor ship can show
Under the sky's dome.
This world is wild as an old wives' tale,
And strange the plain things are,
The earth is enough and the air is enough
For our wonder and our war;
But our rest is as far as the fire-drake swings
And our peace is put in impossible things
Where clashed and thundered unthinkable wings
Round an incredible star.
To an open house in the evening
Home shall men come,
To an older place than Eden
And a taller town than Rome.
To the end of the way of the wandering star,
To the things that cannot be and that are,
To the place where God was homeless
And all men are at home.
The greatest gift of God to man is Christ!
The love for creature man that God displayed;
Born in a manger of Virgin Mary,
By the power of the Holy Spirit,
To redeem mankind from the wages of sin,
So that, ev’n sinners can go to Heaven.
The birth of baby Jesus is Christmas.
Heaven and earth rejoiced when he arrived;
“He would be named Emmanuel! ” said God.
And grow up wise with knowledge of scriptures;
And suffer for no sin or faults of his;
But die by crucifixion at young age,
Resurrect on third day, defeating death!
His sacred blood-shed wipes out any sin;
All sins confessed are forgiven by God;
He would die for all mankind, present, past;
He brought both peace and joy to life on earth;
He was a Prophet, miracle-worker;
He was God’s son in whom God was well pleased!
Christmas gave new hope to human beings;
God could forgive all mortal sins of man;
Hell was for devils; not for every man;
All those who repented would see God’s face;
Jesus was Messiah, God’s begotten son;
God so loved the world, He gave his one son!
Christmas is in giving;
Christmas is in sharing;
Christmas is in loving;
Christmas is in caring;
Christmas is in humbling;
Christmas is in suffering
For others, for Christ’s sake!
Christmas is in repenting;
Christmas is in praying;
Christmas is in forgiving;
Christmas is in keeping
Our souls sinless and pure;
Christmas is in bringing
Back Christ into our hearts!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 12-7-2006
A farmer's wife, both young and gay,
And fresh as op'ning buds of May;
Had taken to herself, a Spouse,
And plighted many solemn vows,
That she a faithful mate would prove,
In meekness, duty, and in love!
That she, despising joy and wealth,
Would be, in sickness and in health,
His only comfort and his Friend--
But, mark the sequel,--and attend!
This Farmer, as the tale is told--
Was somewhat cross, and somewhat old!
His, was the wintry hour of life,
While summer smiled before his wife;
A contrast, rather form'd to cloy
The zest of matrimonial joy!
'Twas Christmas time, the peasant throng
Assembled gay, with dance and Song:
The Farmer's Kitchen long had been
Of annual sports the busy scene;
The wood-fire blaz'd, the chimney wide
Presented seats, on either side;
Long rows of wooden Trenchers, clean,
Bedeck'd with holly-boughs, were seen;
The shining Tankard's foamy ale
Gave spirits to the Goblin tale,
And many a rosy cheek--grew pale.
It happen'd, that some sport to shew
The ceiling held a MISTLETOE.
A magic bough, and well design'd
To prove the coyest Maiden, kind.
A magic bough, which DRUIDS old
Its sacred mysteries enroll'd;
And which, or gossip Fame's a liar,
Still warms the soul with vivid fire;
Still promises a store of bliss
While bigots snatch their Idol's kiss.
This MISTLETOE was doom'd to be
The talisman of Destiny;
Beneath its ample boughs we're told
Full many a timid Swain grew bold;
Full many a roguish eye askance
Beheld it with impatient glance,
And many a ruddy cheek confest,
The triumphs of the beating breast;
And many a rustic rover sigh'd
Who ask'd the kiss, and was denied.
First MARG'RY smil'd and gave her Lover
A Kiss; then thank'd her stars, 'twas over!
Next, KATE, with a reluctant pace,
Was tempted to the mystic place;
Then SUE, a merry laughing jade
A dimpled yielding blush betray'd;
While JOAN her chastity to shew
Wish'd "the bold knaves would serve her so,"
She'd "teach the rogues such wanton play!"
And well she could, she knew the way.
The FARMER, mute with jealous care,
Sat sullen, in his wicker chair;
Hating the noisy gamesome host
Yet, fearful to resign his post;
He envied all their sportive strife
But most he watch'd his blooming wife,
And trembled, lest her steps should go,
Incautious, near the MISTLETOE.
Now HODGE, a youth of rustic grace
With form athletic; manly face;
On MISTRESS HOMESPUN turn'd his eye
And breath'd a soul-declaring sigh!
Old HOMESPUN, mark'd his list'ning Fair
And nestled in his wicker chair;
HODGE swore, she might his heart command--
The pipe was dropp'd from HOMESPUN'S hand!
HODGE prest her slender waist around;
The FARMER check'd his draught, and frown'd!
And now beneath the MISTLETOE
'Twas MISTRESS HOMESPUN'S turn to go;
Old Surly shook his wicker chair,
And sternly utter'd--"Let her dare!"
HODGE, to the FARMER'S wife declar'd
Such husbands never should be spar'd;
Swore, they deserv'd the worst disgrace,
That lights upon the wedded race;
And vow'd--that night he would not go
Unblest, beneath the MISTLETOE.
The merry group all recommend
An harmless Kiss, the strife to end:
"Why not ?" says MARG'RY, "who would fear,
"A dang'rous moment, once a year?"
SUSAN observ'd, that "ancient folks
"Were seldom pleas'd with youthful jokes;"
But KATE, who, till that fatal hour,
Had held, o'er HODGE, unrivall'd pow'r,
With curving lip and head aside
Look'd down and smil'd in conscious pride,
Then, anxious to conceal her care,
She humm'd--"what fools some women are!"
Now, MISTRESS HOMESPUN, sorely vex'd,
By pride and jealous rage perplex'd,
And angry, that her peevish spouse
Should doubt her matrimonial vows,
But, most of all, resolved to make
An envious rival's bosom ache;
Commanded Hodge to let her go,
Nor lead her to the Mistletoe;
"Why should you ask it o'er and o'er?"
Cried she, "we've been there twice before!"
'Tis thus, to check a rival's sway,
That Women oft themselves betray;
While VANITY, alone, pursuing,
They rashly prove, their own undoing.
It's mighty lonesome-like and drear.
Above the Wild the moon rides high,
And shows up sharp and needle-clear
The emptiness of earth and sky;
No happy homes with love a-glow;
No Santa Claus to make believe:
Just snow and snow, and then more snow;
It's Christmas Eve, it's Christmas Eve.
And here am I where all things end,
And Undesirables are hurled;
A poor old man without a friend,
Forgot and dead to all the world;
Clean out of sight and out of mind . . .
Well, maybe it is better so;
We all in life our level find,
And mine, I guess, is pretty low.
Yet as I sit with pipe alight
Beside the cabin-fir
take to-night
The backward trail of fifty year.
The school-house and the Christmas tree;
The children with their cheeks a-glow;
Two bright blue eyes that smile on me . . .
Just half a century ago.
Again (it's maybe forty years),
With faith and trust almost divine,
These same blue eyes, abrim with tears,
Through depths of love look into mine.
A parting, tender, soft and low,
With arms that cling and lips that cleave . . .
Ah me! it's all so long ago,
Yet seems so sweet this Christmas Eve.
Just thirty years ago, again . . .
We say a bitter, last good-bye;
Our lips are white with wrath and pain;
Our little children cling and cry.
Whose was the fault? it matters not,
For man and woman both deceive;
It's buried now and all forgot,
Forgiven, too, this Christmas Eve.
And she (God pity me) is dead;
Our children men and women grown.
I like to think that they are wed,
With little children of their own,
That crowd around their Christmas tree . . .
I would not ever have them grieve,
Or shed a single tear for me,
To mar their joy this Christmas Eve.
Stripped to the buff and gaunt and still
Lies all the land in grim distress.
Like lost soul wailing, long and shrill,
A wolf-howl cleaves the emptiness.
Then hushed as Death is everything.
The moon rides haggard and forlorn . . .
"O hark the herald angels sing!"
God bless all men -- it's Christmas morn.
Just once before I die I would
so love to see a lot of smiling faces,
each morning when I board the city bus.
Mind you, there is no pressing need
for outright reverence or admiration.
I am completely able to interpret all
nuances of your now familiar lines
crows' feet and ordinary wrinkles are,
what I have stared into, each working day.
So let me draw conclusions as I wish
as I lean back against the grimy, shiny  seat,
wrapped like a Christmas gift from God
inside my salt and pepper London-tailored suit.
This section is a Christmas tree:
Loaded with pretty toys for you.
Behold the blocks, the Noah's arks,
The popguns painted red and blue.
No solemn pine-cone forest-fruit,
But silver horns and candy sacks
And many little tinsel hearts
And cherubs pink, and jumping-jacks.
For every child a gift, I hope.
The doll upon the topmost bough
Is mine. But all the rest are yours.
And I will light the candles now.
'Tis winter-time as snow-flakes fall;
'Tis Christmas-time for all;
And Christmas eve has come at last,
A time to enjoy fast.
A winding lane leads to a door,
A dainty cottage door;
Where baby Jesus will be born,
In freezing cold, one morn!
A Christmas tree is all alit,
With gifts and festoons nice;
As Santa's sledge moves bit by bit,
With gifts, over the ice.
Oh, what a wondrous night indeed!
What Christmas joy's reborn!
And peace will come upon the earth,
With boy-child Savior's birth!
Once again it's Christmas Time,
time for us to be,
Busy wrapping presents
and setting up the tree.
It seems we have so many things,
to think of and to do,
We may forget that Christmas,
has a deeper meaning too.
A meaning that goes far beyond,
the things the eye can see,
Such as Holly wreaths, Mistletoe,
and Gifts beneath the tree.
For these are only Symbols,
of what happened Christmas morn,
When in a little manger,
GOD's only Son was born.
GOD put HIM here upon this Earth,
with one idea in mind.
To put New Hope around the World,
and LOVE in all Mankind.
So even though we're busy,
and have many things to do,
Let's not forget that Christmas,
has a deeper Meaning too.
A holly wreath hung on the door,
Or presents strewn across the floor,
Tall Christmas tree with baubles bright,
Which fills our hearts with such delight.
Carols sung out in the snow,
A Snowman built with eyes aglow,
Crackers pulled, a song to sing,
Candles lit, and bells that ring.
Roasted turkey, which tastes divine,
Rich, fruit cake, with an iced design,
No, the most important reminder of all,
Is the birth of a babe in an Ox's stall.
©   Ernestine Northover
Running towards her pumpkin
At the stroke of midnight
Her lost slipper upon the stair
In the silver majestic moonlight
The fairytale turns to dust
As the witching hour begins
Down in the forgotten cellar
Her sorrow and pain she sings
So not to loose her memories of this night’s enchantment
She tearfully produces ink of thoughts onto peasant parchment
Recumbent but weary on her bed of mice invested hay
Crying her self to sleep still and alone Cinderella lay
The next morning prince charming comes round
With the clear glass slipper he had found
A gentleman he lowers down on one knee, while Cinderella sits
Drawing eloquent smiles as the slipper perfectly fits
Like a broken Cinderella,
She turns in the jewellery box,
There is no exit, no escape, no hope,
And she is hanging from a noose rope.
Broken Cinderella, broken Cinderella,
You're over; a broken record,
That cannot play, pain here to stay,
No prettiness to escape to,
No moving forward, only moving back,
Trapped, dead, deceased, over and broken,
With a torn dress, a torn gown,
That is ripped at the seams,
Ripped in her agony, she searches,
But can find no one with a solution.
Her shoes, long since worn out,
Leave her walking a lonely road,
Almost crawling on the ground,
Her heart an empty, cold stone,
With many heavy stones in the load.
She wishes for mercy from the hot sun,
She wished for mercy from the cold snow,
Where is the window? she asks,
Where is my future? A broken Cinderella,
Broken, down and out,
Living all by herself,
With no helping hand,
With no friend or stranger to understand.
And she yearns to be fixed,
She hopes to replace those bricks,
That will make her a new home,
A world where her heart carries no stone,
And leaves her to fly in the blue sky,
Her wings carrying her,
From the unforgiving ground.
Cinderella was a nice gal
Always did what she was told
Put others before herself
Cinderella had lots of hopes and dreams
One day in the town she heard of the ball
CInderella wanted to go
Really really bad
Her step mom gave her touble
Her sisters were ok
But she never went
Beucase no one cared
Poor cinderella cried
Dreams really don't come true
Fairytales are fake
Cinderella never found her prince
She never really went to any ball
She lost all her hopes and dreams in life
Cinderella never got a granted wish
Poor cinderella
True love never found her
When she was old
Cinderella died an old maid
When Cinderella went to heaven
She was treated like a real princess
Angels planed a ball for her
And made her a pretty white gown
Jesus danced with her
Then he took her by the hand
And led her to her handsome chosen prince
It was all worth the shattered hopes
And dreams in life
To have a fairytale ending in heaven
When we first met it was at  a mask dance party
We only dance once
but last a lifetime
It was a magical time
Even thought we never saw each other face
But you remember how beautiful I dance
I know I left without saying goodbye
And I'm glad you've been looking for me since
Because one song bring two strangers together
And one dance make two stranger fall in love with each other
Baby You are my Cinderella
And I can tell you if we can find each other after all those years
And if one dance make us fall in love
We are going to live happily ever after
The truth is that it wasn't just a dance It  was
A Cinderella Dance
There is a girl and a boy,
Connected only in cyber,
Never met,
Never phoned,
How long can it last?
It is like in the movie ‘A Cinderella Story’,
Her friend said.
The girl loves him so much,
She cannot took her mind off him,
She waits in front of computer every night,
Waiting for her Prince Charming to greet.
They have known each other a year,
They lived very far apart,
It is like one is up there,
One is down the globe,
Can it last?
She wondered.
One day,
Her Prince Charming said those magical words to her,
She was barely able to breathe,
She was the happiest person on Earth,
But Prince Charming loves her as…?
On one beautiful night,
As usual,
She spent almost hours and hours in front of the computer,
Wait till Prince Charming to come,
But he did not,
She was a bit upset,
She wrote to Prince Charming,
‘You love me as what? ’
Prince Charming replied her the next day,
‘I love you as my girlfriend’,
‘Will you be mine? ’
For God’s sake,
She was absolutely wanted to be his,
‘I sure will’,
It was the best day of her life.
So, there it was,
For her,
She hopes her story does not end just like that,
She will wait for her Prince Charming,
To come to her,
In reality,
Not just in cyber,
Even if it take 100 years.
She wanted them to see,
She wanted him to take her hands,
She wanted to dance in the rain with him,
She wanted to feel his warm,
She wanted him for sure,
She will wait, she swore.
A Cinderella Story?
It is different with her story, she thought,
It is just the same,
When it comes to how they stay connected.
Adelaida: A Cuban Cinderella
Written by Ana Monnar
{PAGE 1}
Once upon a time, on the island of Cuba lived two sisters named Adelaida and Marisol. Although identical twins in appearance, their personalities were as different as night and day. Adelaida was noble and loved to help others. She understood that the situation at home was not easy. Their father worked 14 hours a day and their mother was frail and very ill. So Adelaida would wake up very early every morning to cook breakfast and have it ready for her father before he’d go to work. They would eat together while they talked about many different matters.
{PAGE 2}
Adelaida would then prepare a tray for her mother; with love and tenderness she fed her each meal of the day. She also insisted on helping the nurse care for her much-loved mother. She spent time brushing her mami’s hair and would take pleasure in it.
{PAGE 3}
On the other hand, Marisol believed that the world revolved around her. After sleeping until noon, she expected a breakfast menu. From the moment that she stepped out of her bed, she would holler, “Adelaida, bring me my breakfast! ”
Adelaida would serve her sister bacon, eggs, toast, juice, and milk. She would hurry to take the plate to the table and cater to her sister. But Marisol always complained that the food was not hot enough, or the drinks not cold enough. No matter how much Adelaida would try to please her, it never seemed to be enough. Marisol often wanted favors during the very moment that her sister was caring for their mother, and so Adelaida would ignore her sister’s whining and tend to her mother first.
{PAGE 4}
During the long hours of each day Adelaida would sweep the floor, wash, iron, and do the dishes. In between chores, she would hurry each time Marisol rang a bell demanding her services. Marisol would command, “Curl my hair! ” “Wash and iron my clothes! ” “Make my bed! ” “I’m hungry! ” “I want chicken and yellow rice, salad, and custard for dinner! ”
Adelaida would just give in to her sister’s demands to avoid confrontations that would disturb their mother’s peace. Luckily Adelaida had dogs, cats, and birds that adored her and followed her around. Even the mice would come to keep her company and help out. Little Maria the mouse carried the napkin on top of her head to set the table. Sometimes Adelaida and her critters would have fun together carving a giant pumpkin to make pumpkin soup, pumpkin pie, and pumpkin custard.
{PAGE 5}
One evening when their father came home from work he called both of his daughters. Adelaida and Marisol both kissed him and listened to what he had to say. With a frown, he mumbled, “My boss is having a dinner at his mansion and he wants our family to attend. Mr. Perez wishes to reward me for being the employee of the year. He also is very proud of his son who just finished his internship and graduated as a doctor. He is coming home just in time for the Christmas holidays and he would like for us to meet him.' In his mind he was thinking, ‘How am I going to get my wife to go? She is so weak and frail.’
{Page 6}
Adelaida, who felt and shared her father’s concern and sorrow, read his mind and replied, “Papi, you go ahead and enjoy the party and take Marisol with you. I will stay home with Mami and I promise to call the nurse if I need the extra help.”
Marisol leaped and yelped, “It sounds like a great plan to me! Take me shopping for a new dress, shoes, purse, and jewelry.” Deep in her mind she was scheming to snatch the young doctor. If she married rich she could have servants, a chef, and a chauffeur.
Their father tried to coax Adelaida into going with them. He said, “Adelaida, please come along with us and I will call the nurse to care for your mother during the few hours that we will be gone.” Adelaida gently but firmly begged her dad to let her stay. He finally agreed.
{Page 7}
The dinner was only two weeks away and Marisol continued nagging about a dress, pair of shoes, purse, jewelry, and now even added perfume to her inventory. Finally, even after working 14-hour shifts, Papi took Marisol out on several occasions to buy her luxuries. If Adelaida, their mother, or the nurse tried to reason with her insistent demands, Marisol would weep and whine until she got her way. Their father looked fatigued and could barely keep his feet firmly on the ground. Adelaida hugged her father and whispered, “Papi, I love you.” He cracked a slight grin and kissed her on the top of her head.
{Page 8}
Adelaida felt sorry for her father and hoped her sister would grow up and mature someday. They were both 23 years old and even though they were twins, their actions and values were poles apart. Adelaida often proved to be as wise as an owl perched up high in a tree as the moon glistened and sparkled above.
{Page 9}
Finally the day of the invitation arrived and Marisol was ecstatic. This would be her big break for securing her future husband! She just wanted to get away from their home, which reeked of medicines, antiseptic, and illness. Adelaida helped Marisol into her gown, but instead of showing gratitude, Marisol's whimpering continued. Marisol applied globs of make-up. If someone were to wet a couple of fingers and roll them against her foundation, rouge, and eye shadow, they would have enough watercolors to cover a canvas with frolicking ocean waves. When she put on her big gold hoop earrings and dabbed on cologne, Marisol was thrilled by the look and smell created by these finishing touches.
{Page 10}
Marisol scurried to her mother’s room and waved good-bye from the door. The nurse could have been knocked over by a feather after observing such selfishness from Marisol. She pondered how one sister could be so kind, loving, and gentle, while the other was egotistical and self-centered. The nurse had been coming to the house for weeks, having been hired when the mother began to feel weaker and was confined to bed. She was a dutiful and observant nurse who continuously nourished those who needed her help. When the nurse went home for the evening, Adelaida would sit by her mother and hold her hand as she sang to her. Her soothing voice would help her mother fall asleep.
{Page 11}
Adelaida’s father kissed his wife’s forehead and then thanked Adelaida for being so caring and devoted. Marisol yelled from across the corridor, “Papi, hurry up or we’ll be late! ” Although he loved both his daughters equally and played no favorites, he could clearly see the difference in their behaviors.
{Page 12}
Marisol and her father arrived at the mansion. The butler greeted them and announced their appearance. Mr. Garcia’s gentle boss, wife, and son welcomed them. Mr. and Mrs. Perez inquired about the whereabouts of his wife and his other twin daughter. The humble Mr. Garcia replied softly with sad and shameful eyes, “My wife is ill, weak, frail, and bedridden so my other daughter Adelaida stayed home caring for her. She insisted that we come and have an evening out.” Young Dr. Perez did not even glance at Marisol. He just thought it odd that one sister was out partying, while the other was looking after her mother. Mr. and Mrs. Perez felt sorry for the family’s suffering and offered to take the meal to the Garcias’ home and eat there instead. Marisol was flabbergasted! ‘This can’t be happening! I must be having a nightmare! ’ she thought.
{Page 13}
Both families drove to the Garcia residence. The servants and chauffeur carried the meal inside. The Perez family members were guided to the master bedroom where Adelaida was brushing her mother’s hair as she sang so sweetly. Although Adelaida had no make-up and was wearing simple clothes, she looked cool, calm, collected, and as faithful as a saint. Young Dr. Perez looked at Adelaida’s emerald-green eyes and realized that this was one young lady that he would love to befriend. At the end of the corridor Marisol’s green eyes displayed her jealousy and envy.
They sat down around the ill Mrs. Garcia, spoke softly, and ate holding their plates with one hand and their forks with the other. They ate black beans, rice, pork, and fried plantains. Adelaida did not begin eating until she slowly and gently fed her mother first. By this point Marisol was starving, so she devoured her food.
After this very enlightening visit, the young doctor asked Mr. Garcia if he could come regularly to check up on Mrs. Garcia and visit Adelaida. Mr. Garcia was very grateful for his interest and agreed.
{Page 14}
The next day the young doctor appeared at the Garcias’ home. He read the chart with the diagnosis of the illness and then examined Mrs. Garcia. Dr. Perez wrote a prescription for a medication that had been tested and approved in the United States, but was not yet that well known in Cuba. He asked the twin young ladies to go to the pharmacy. Adelaida without hesitation obeyed and was ready to walk a mile and a half to buy the medication. Marisol, however, refused to go with the excuse that she was too tired. She thought that if she stayed while Adelaida was absent, perhaps the doctor would notice her instead.
As Adelaida walked the distance, she took joy in observing the squirrels climb the trees. In the meantime, Marisol, without any concern for her mother, just batted her eyes at the doctor and continued her selfish ways.
Each day Dr. Perez would come to check on their mother. It was very clear that he had compassion for the poor suffering woman. He also fell in love with Adelaida and her good deeds.
Marisol tried every trick in the book to split them up. But the more she tried, the more love bonded her twin sister with her new-found love.
{Page 15}
The nurse, an observant witness to Marisol’s selfish actions, was astounded. She waited until the doctor left one day and led the twins to the garden. She did not wish to upset the lady of the house.
As all three stood outside, the nurse said in a very sweet voice, “You, Adelaida, are sincere, kind, loyal, and nurturing, and for that I will grant that every time you speak, good things will come out of your mouth! ”
Then the nurse turned to Marisol and with a harsh tone of voice said, 'You, Marisol, are so selfish, self-centered, mean, and manipulating that each time you open your mouth to speak, only bad things will come out! ”
Adelaida quietly pleaded, “Please don’t hurt my sister, she is just immature and will one day change.” When pearls, rubies, and diamonds suddenly came out of Adelaida's mouth, Marisol was amazed and looked frightened but thought, ‘I wonder, what if I speak and get riches also.’ So she dared say, “Now what sort of bad things could really happen? ”
A snake slithered out of her mouth and she looked petrified. Marisol, without thinking, squealed, “Stop it! ” Before she even finished speaking, a crocodile dashed out of her mouth. Adelaida, being a kind soul, begged the magical nurse to forgive her sister. She cried, “Please take my riches away each time I speak, and remove the curse from my sister’s tongue, ” while more jewels spilled from her mouth and onto the floor.
For the first time, Marisol was enlightened by her sister’s love for her. Deeply touched, Marisol felt sincere remorse. The nurse could sense both sisters’ love for each other, and love conquered evil. The spell was broken, ending after 23 minutes had elapsed. One minute for each year of their lives,23 minutes that seemed like an eternity.
When their father returned that evening, he saw that both sisters were waiting hand and foot on their mother.
{Page 16}
The young doctor returned each day and their mother grew stronger and healthier. Once her health improved miraculously, he continued visiting Adelaida every single day. He asked her parents for her hand in marriage and they were pleased. His parents were very happy for their son and blessed him for choosing such a nice and noble girl.
The next day he surprised Adelaida by knocking at her door. On her front lawn was the most elegant elephant. The circus was in town and young Dr. Perez hired the ringmaster to assist with the elephant as a unique surprise.Riding it was the cutest mouse holding a sparkling diamond ring. Adelaida was in awe as she accepted his proposal. This time around both sisters’ emerald-green eyes shimmered. Marisol was very happy for her sister and gave her a big hug full of love.
{Page 17}
The wedding took place in Varadero Beach under the sunset. Only the immediate family attended. But off in the distance the magical nurse observed the scene and smiled. She knew that the Garcia family would not need her services anymore and it was time to move on to help another family.
The seagulls glided and flew in sweet harmony as the breeze broke the waves along the shoreline. The young doctor and Adelaida decided to make their home in Havana, Cuba, near their parents, where they lived happily ever after.
I still believe in Cinderella story.
And I am even worse.
There's no concept of time.
When your heart strikes '12 o'clock',
There will be a new pair of shoes for you.
Waiting for you to shine again.
There's no concept of time.
There will always be a new pair of shoes,
No matter how old you are, how ugly you are,
how unhappy you are.
Waiting for you to shine again.
Cinderella!
I need your crummy clothes cleaned.
First, make sure you have every stain off them.
You need to look decent tonight for the guests.
Next, Hang dry them so that they do not bleed into the other clothes.
I do not need you to have anymore bright blue shirts.
Last, Put them away.
Flor them so that the creeses match up.
And place them into your drawers
Cinderella and her dog
sat at home on the old log.
Sisters had gone to the dance
homely ones did have no chance.
Said the dog 'my Cinderella,
may I be this evening's fella,
we could wash and dress with care
and could make a handsome pair.'
She had raised her bushy brow,
asked the clever dog just how
they would get into the castle
while avoiding a big hassle.
'You are nothing but a mutt,
always scratching your big butt,
full of craziness and fleas
barely reach up to my knees.'
Dog had motives quite ulterior,
said 'I'm not at all inferior,
every dog, on the inside
hides a man beneath his hide.
All it needs is one French Kiss,
which in turn produces bliss,
makes me into your own prince
(turns away and quickly grins) ,
Bravely Cinderella acts,
knowing only half the facts.
Kisses him for one whole hour
to release that magic power.
But no miracle breaks free,
dog lifts leg now, just to pee,
doesn't seem the least surprised,
she has still not realised
that the dog has pulled her leg.
So she now begins to beg:
'I will kiss you one more time,
please come out, man in your prime.
Let me tell you that your breath
is far worse than Father Death.'
So, they kiss again and linger
as the Emperor's own singer
happens to be wand'ring by,
carrying a rhubarb pie.
'Sir', pleads pretty Cinderella,
you, the singer Pico Bella,
can you give us some advice? '
Pico says 'You have nice eyes,
but a mutt will stay a mutt,
into man a mutt cannot
metamorph through simple kissing,
since he has genetics missing.'
Well, she turned now to the critter,
hot, enraged and really bitter,
'How could  YOU,  a lowly dog
who sleeps in a hollow log
trick me into kissing French
with your halitosis stench? '
'Look', he answered, 'truly sorry,
first, I had to have a story,
all my life I've not been kissed,
but I am a journalist.
Hired by the King's own wife,
never gotten into strife.
Learned that one can grab a chance
if the lady likes to dance.'
Cinderella a woman of thoughts
A woman of brave and questioning mind
Stood for education and empowerment
Never brawled but a bravura in actions.
Cinderella had grown to woman hood
Facing all challenges to the girls
Still faced them in her style of brave
No one had courage to face her challenges.
She was not a bravado someone suspected
She was a hero in circumstances warranted
A valiant girl fought for justice
Never she minded the cowards opposing progress.
My outstretched arms surpass the point
Of normal, taxing every joint
By reaching, gasping, pulling in
The cloistered thoughts that lie within.
We meet in quiet, swathed in night,
Our bodies bathed in candlelight,
As words are whispered, sparsely spread
Between the bureau and the bed,
Where, skin-on-soul, our friction roars
While each of us, in turn, explores—
The vastness shuts—a shrink-wrapped world
Containing two, enclosed and curled
Together in contented bliss,
A rhythm set, no breath amiss
Within the syncopated shell
Of our imagined wishing well,
Which shimmers not with silver coins,
But softly gleams, as love enjoins,
With eyes awash in dancing hues,
A flashing mesh of browns and blues.
Our funneled gazes turn the lock
On earthly cares, to catch the clock—
11: 59—pre-chime,
Before it strikes our ending time—
Instead, we claim the lives we know,
The challenges, the chores, although
One day, with limitations gone,
Perhaps our dream will sidle on
Beyond the Cinderella toll,
Where, unencumbered, we could roll
Towards a truth, on steady wheels,
Of freer time, and new ideals.
On the memory of seeing Mary Pickford's 'Cinderella or the Little Glass Slipper' on a children's toy projector one silent film childhood Christmas; the companion piece was a Mickey Mouse short feature; my father was driven to desperation every time he was asked to thread that impossibly small machine (and we asked him a lot) .
to my mother and father for separate beautiful reasons -
feather-stitching these glass shadows
silent frame by frame
how could you help but wonder
later on
what all the shattering was for?
then you were telling us stories
in the dark green garden chair…
let it not be said
that is where the story ends…
Cinderella.  Cendrillon.
though it may not be magic-
you can't be blamed for
storms on a distant sun
am I the only one who sees
those
sunspots seeping through
the mystical rustling in the orchards-
where did they come from?
where did you?
here are the crystals, sequined- still-
in my lost hand- you may find missing
from your gown, your head, your heart
soft lemon afternoons like the ones in Renoir.
somehow, it all gets scattered in the dark
and you wonder where to stand
in a flickering brilliant language seldom used
except in a few newsreel half-projections
on the wall-the year in semi-review-
whose year was that?
it wasn't mine-
though it might be said
and surely was, that
music was her last diadem,
even when she fled
leaving all Enchantment behind her-
so they said-
and her bright skirts swirling
like the dream of Light itself
in a receding universe
and tearing her pale
raspberry satin hem-
it must have been that colour…
on every hazel twig in sight
barely above ground...
God lives in the remnants
so she smiles, opening her birthday gifts
of clocks that never chime;
putting in water the bunches of violets
that last and last...
you cannot fail to notice, even now,
that earliest sparkling is best and the
last to leave the party under the trees she says to
her crystal children on the breeze
the one with the paper lanterns
no longer living.
my darlings, don't get lost
beyond the pink glass frosted
fawn on the walnut what-not…
so we promised not to-
and to live on where rose curtains swayed
Cinderella.  Cendrillon…
shine out of sight, yourself, alone-
you'll know more than angels in
the end for you are good-
the best clue in all the kingdom
after a lifetime spent
rinsing out your pale peach
print again and again
hoping not to be found but just to be left
here dreaming…
and slipping the slipper carefully
into an apron of cloud…
mary angela douglas 9 april 2012
Note to Reader:  It has come to my embarrassed attention that I
have pronounced the word 'Cendrillon' in an imaginary accent
but I am leaving it that way because I cannot hope to duplicate the
coincidental special effects in the video.  Does it help if I listen to Debussy and Ravel continually? I hope so...
Behold the beauteous maiden... ill-fitted to those rags...
And quite often heavy laden... as on and on life drags...
Yet despite her heart now broken... by others and their spite,
All her sighs were gently spoken... though she still prayed each night...
For sorrows had not crushed her soul... nor tempered female dreams...
Nor overcome her self-control... as others planned their schemes...
She scrubbed the floors, watched others smile... and took life in her stride...
As if she sought to pass each trial... with gratitude not pride...
For she was not the owner here... and that she knew full well...
The others made that crystal clear... what more was there to tell?
But Fate is known to intervene... to lend a helping hand...
Arranging things as yet unseen... with purposes still planned...
And so it was, one night love came... when she went to a ball...
The Prince's heart no more the same... she was his miracle...
When found at home, his heart was glad... his love he could not hide...
With Cinderella no more sad... the day she was his bride...
Denis Martindale March 2019.
The birthing of articulated expression
will always find its means of entering
into the world outside and beyond
the inner recesses of our awareness.
I love the wee and trippy hours of the
after midnight when the glass slipper
lay glimmering aloof in the moonlight
and the weary dreamer sets some
ink of thoughts onto the parchment
of a woozy head - too early in the day
to be about one's inescapable routines
too late in the night to do but dream
This is the witching hour in a life
where most everything is transfixed
in the baffling clarity of cerebration
the muses dancing in glad celebration
[to my Grandmother, with love]
we are the queen of nooks and crannies,
she sparkled, pulling a raisin bun from the air
with pink frosting on it?
you have to come prepared, she said
then a can of pink frosting appeared
on a lower shelf with a butter knife
I never saw before in my life.
and we had tea, deliciously who cares
what anyone else thinks.
plenty to drink of cherry fizz
or raspberry glitz or anything else
if you think of it, chilled, on chipped ice;
be nice and don't dawdle.
but dawdling is what the day is for
we both agree when it's green outdoors;
an April green and a wind that blows
and we are the very rose that blows
my fairy Goddear and I;
two twinkles in God's eye.
mary angela douglas 9 april 2016
A Prince's Dream
Slender slipper
Of a slippery antelope
Heart elopes
Sentience
Tiny toes
And heeled soles
A tinge of toe jam
Feet and Play
Tender soles
Woven in Assam silk
A prince's foot fetish
Smells Like Halloween
A slipper
Made of glass
Smelling of pumpkin
A Slipper Made Of Glass
Beyond misty mountains
Beyond the cover of oceans
Rests a transparent love
Cinderella got lost
somewhere in between
the countryside and palace
that she'd never seen.
Walking through mud,
face streaked with tears
still clearly so beautiful,
the slippers were clear.
But soon she got covered
in the worst kinds of things
and she didn't understand
what marriage would mean.
She had no conception
of being the queen,
so she met a young beggar
and settled, for him.
They lived in a hovel
right outside town;
she'd watch the processions
of royals going down.
She often wondered
how it might feel
to sit on a throne
(it gave her a thrill!) .
As she tended the fire
and sat in the cinders
she would dream of a life
with riches unending.
The end.
Cinderella the beautiful girl
I saw in my dreams
she was flying in a flying saucer
Looking the universe in curiosity
Striking the events of universe
From star to star she tried to reach
The flying saucer glittered in nights
That I saw in my eyes
Cinderella looking the planets
The beautiful earth, mars and all
The life breath facility in saucer
Technology were so superior to man
She felt no thirst or hunger in journey
She was blessed with gods will
Beautiful cinderella always prayed
In journeys she remembered the humans
The fellow people who loved her
The affection of her beloved mother
The fairy made problems to her
The lovable prince's charm she thought
The well ridden poems in human mind
Cinderella can read the minds prettily
Just like human computers in action
The stars, moons of different types
Different worlds, different live systems
Poor cinderella became blessed one
She got a place near the planets
For ever she looks to the earth she came
She shined and glittered like jewels
Where there is no prince, or paupers
The world of contentment only there
Where material gain is not a concern
In fact cinderella is a great enlightened
The nobility of a great human being
And an Angel's beauty and clarity in her
The flying saucer ever ready to carry
Cinderella the beautiful girl ever ready
To go from planets to planets and stars
Above oceans, mountains, and hillocks
To proclaim the noble feelings of love
The essential teachings of love she carries
The flying saucer superior to all
The loving mind ever superior to all
We can farewell cinderella for her journey
Till attaining the kindness in all creatures.
cinderella lied,
she never lost her glass slipper
only her virginity...
and so did he,
(the prince, i mean)
he lost himself inside her,
somewhere deep between the sheets
(between the lines)
and between the sheets
he read her passion
felt her lust
grasped her thrust
cinderella lied
Cinderella was a good girl who went with the flow;
When the clock struck twelve, she knew she must go,
As she followed the good godmothers advice
And she never even had to think twice:
'Don't stay out after midnight, or you'll turn to a Ho.'
Cinderella got kissed by the prince;
There was magic involved, before the kiss:
A pumpkin became a coach
And a cigarette, a roach
And then this whiskey turned into piss.
When the countdown's over
I won't be disappeared
I still want to meet you
If I could
If it's still the same
If the time stops
I don't need pumpkin cart
I don't need glittering gown
And I don't need glass shoes
Till midnight
Stop the needle of clock
from cyber idol mink
You are the Cinderella and
I want to be the man  to take your hand and help
you stand to be your man in all the land
the glass has fallen from your foot and
when I find it that’s when I find you to make it fit
I hope it do to hold you I want to but to lose
you is coming too I know its life
and that for me is almost through
but once it’s over I hope that you are happy too,
when you leave me I will know it’s through and
all I will have left to say to you is
I bid you a due and I love you to
the clock will chime and you'll
remember what she said.
your dress will turn to sand;
your ribbands dissolving...
and criss-cross in the stars
you see your future, marred
and the diamond ships wavering.
it's time for walking home at
a fast pace leaving no trace
but you don't realize yet
(your heart is dazed)
one slipper still remains,
its own constellation
in plain view.
so drenched in evening dews
that even in rags, you'll
still sparkle,
vanishing from his sight;
oh, that you could take flight
from your own grieving;
singing, the world is sand
and the Hour glass, God;
forgetting a dream's
a bit opaque, at best.
but something at the gate's behest
gleams, try to understand... the rest!
says wait, oh wait, while from
the shimmering tree in the garden
slips mellifluously;
in gold array,
another day.
mary angela douglas 9 january 2016
You always read about it:
the plumber with the twelve children
who wins the Irish Sweepstakes.
From toilets to riches.
That story.
Or the nursemaid,
some luscious sweet from Denmark
who captures the oldest son's heart.
from diapers to Dior.
That story.
Or a milkman who serves the wealthy,
eggs, cream, butter, yogurt, milk,
the white truck like an ambulance
who goes into real estate
and makes a pile.
From homogenized to martinis at lunch.
Or the charwoman
who is on the bus when it cracks up
and collects enough from the insurance.
From mops to Bonwit Teller.
That story.
Once
the wife of a rich man was on her deathbed
and she said to her daughter Cinderella:
Be devout. Be good. Then I will smile
down from heaven in the seam of a cloud.
The man took another wife who had
two daughters, pretty enough
but with hearts like blackjacks.
Cinderella was their maid.
She slept on the sooty hearth each night
and walked around looking like Al Jolson.
Her father brought presents home from town,
jewels and gowns for the other women
but the twig of a tree for Cinderella.
She planted that twig on her mother's grave
and it grew to a tree where a white dove sat.
Whenever she wished for anything the dove
would dropp it like an egg upon the ground.
The bird is important, my dears, so heed him.
Next came the ball, as you all know.
It was a marriage market.
The prince was looking for a wife.
All but Cinderella were preparing
and gussying up for the event.
Cinderella begged to go too.
Her stepmother threw a dish of lentils
into the cinders and said: Pick them
up in an hour and you shall go.
The white dove brought all his friends;
all the warm wings of the fatherland came,
and picked up the lentils in a jiffy.
No, Cinderella, said the stepmother,
you have no clothes and cannot dance.
That's the way with stepmothers.
Cinderella went to the tree at the grave
and cried forth like a gospel singer:
Mama! Mama! My turtledove,
send me to the prince's ball!
The bird dropped down a golden dress
and delicate little slippers.
Rather a large package for a simple bird.
So she went. Which is no surprise.
Her stepmother and sisters didn't
recognize her without her cinder face
and the prince took her hand on the spot
and danced with no other the whole day.
As nightfall came she thought she'd better
get home. The prince walked her home
and she disappeared into the pigeon house
and although the prince took an axe and broke
it open she was gone. Back to her cinders.
These events repeated themselves for three days.
However on the third day the prince
covered the palace steps with cobbler's wax
and Cinderella's gold shoe stuck upon it.
Now he would find whom the shoe fit
and find his strange dancing girl for keeps.
He went to their house and the two sisters
were delighted because they had lovely feet.
The eldest went into a room to try the slipper on
but her big toe got in the way so she simply
sliced it off and put on the slipper.
The prince rode away with her until the white dove
told him to look at the blood pouring forth.
That is the way with amputations.
They just don't heal up like a wish.
The other sister cut off her heel
but the blood told as blood will.
The prince was getting tired.
He began to feel like a shoe salesman.
But he gave it one last try.
This time Cinderella fit into the shoe
like a love letter into its envelope.
At the wedding ceremony
the two sisters came to curry favor
and the white dove pecked their eyes out.
Two hollow spots were left
like soup spoons.
Cinderella and the prince
lived, they say, happily ever after,
like two dolls in a museum case
never bothered by diapers or dust,
never arguing over the timing of an egg,
never telling the same story twice,
never getting a middle-aged spread,
their darling smiles pasted on for eternity.
Regular Bobbsey Twins.
That story.
The clock strikes midnight
and the magic ends:
the fairy tale is over
and the truth offends.
The coronet, the necklace and the gown
and shawl of ermine trimmed with eider down
to tinsel and to ashen rags have turned;
only a slipper, left in haste
upon the stairway, overturned,
remains unchanged and fancy chaste.
The streets are all deserted, save for mice
scuttling for safety through a broken wall
as Cinderella draw her tattered shawl
around her shoulders'
but she feels at once that this will not suffice
to warm her body or to quell her beating heart
which is as cold as ice!
Back to the ashes of her fireplace
back to the dust from which she came
before her fairy touched her with her wand
and put a blush of beauty on her face,
changed all her drabness to magnificence,
set magic to her name
so that no longer could she be the same
she goes and crouches trembling in a corner!
Than she, what other soul could be forlorner!
O, frightened soul, my little Cinderella,
don't you remember that you left behind'
a slipper onto the stair?
You did not disappear
and leave no telltale sign to show
that you were really there:
the lovely maiden of the fairy tale!
Even now, the heavenly prince
is out in search of you,
your slipper in his hand,
to slip upon your foot
and take you back with him
to his own land!
This week I ran,
I ran from home.
My father was cruel,
He treated me like,
A simple slave child.
I ran to a friends,
Trying to leave town.
We almost escaped,
Then he saw us,
He took me straight home.
Once we arrived,
I packed all my things.
As he begged me to stay,
He said something was wrong,
He wasn't sure what.
He went to the phone,
I ran out the back.
To my friends once more,
The cops have soon come,
They said, 'we can do not'.
So know here I am,
A run away girl.
No more treated as if,
I am Cinderella,
Without a kind prince.
But a prince I need not,
For I have many friends.
With many a true,
I hold them all close,
For I am Cinderella.
And one day I'll have my Prince.
It's raining out there, would you mind to join me?
Lets play in the rain, we'll laugh and dance till the rain's over.
It's 11: 16 pm right now, the clock will strikes to 12 soon.
Oh, I wish I'm Cinderella, I just need to end all this stupid act.
Come on, let dance with me till the song's over.
Before the rains stop, please can you be my prince?
I just love to dance in the rain, because in that way, you'll never notice me crying.
Am, amalgam!
With the ways of life;
Proof, roof!
With the ways of mankind;
Love!
Very sensible and very careful;
But, with the sweet muse of peace and joy.
Cinderella, real, dear, ear, read, deal, lead, led, lad, near, cine, line, den, era, dine;
Prove, rove!
Playing along in the garden of love to discover the sweet muse of peace.
Cover, discover!
With the muse of the joy in your heart;
And, into the forest of peace to rest your mind in the land of your muse.
Hoe, how!
To inspire and be inspired;
By the ways of peace and the ways of sweet love,
In the land of beautiful flowers whare joy reigns.
Love!
Quite safe with the laws;
Life!
Reluctantly agreeing to love;
And, for a better tomorrow in the land of peace.
I wish I could be you're Cinderella
I wish I could meet you at a ball and
You find my glass slipper and bring it back
Then sweep me off my feet
Take me away in that carriage
Let it just be you and I
Let me be your one and only princess
I want to be your Cinderella
Oh please let me be your one and only Cinderella
September 13,2007
I used to think that beauty is for the roses
I used to think that elegance is for the gazelle
Now I discovered that Cinderella is beauty
Now I discovered that Cinderella is elegance
I have seen humility with great height
I have met respect with enormous length
But take it from me; Cinderella is the peak of humility
Yes! Believe me, Cinderella is the end of respect.
I am surely not sinking behind
Neither am I standing by myself
This is not a daydreaming
Certainly, it is not fantasizing
Cinderella, how graceful with your pose
Cinderella, how beautiful with your beauty
Cinderella, how elegant with your steps
Cinderella, how queenly with your look
Cinderella, though black and shining
Is the light in the darkness?
Cinderella, though living and bubbling
Is the dream of any man?
You are the world's greatest, Cinderella
You are like living in the fairly tales
Someone very rare to come by
Only just with a stroke of luck
You beat my imaginations, Cinderella
You confound my expectations, Cinderella
You are a dream come true, Cinderella
Your foot fits the lost shoe, Cinderella
Oh! Cinderella the beautiful girl
Perhaps we are not knowing each other
But trying to remember always
But forgot to achieve my memory
Oh! Cinderella the little one
The hardships you faced well known
The crooked mind tried to destroy
The hook nose of your enemy there
Whom you fear for your ill fortune.
Oh! Cinderella a noble minded girl
Ever we are for your support here
Never mind of the devils attempts
The world is always love with you.
On the white sheet you lie stretched out,
your hot breath is caressing my cheek softly,
with the yellow-peach rain you did come
when the thunder hangs grey-white curtains.
The deep smell of your perfume overwhelms me,
lingers in clothes as it sometimes do,
we become part of each other, time passes,
when dreams and reality meet
and on the morning I find your lost shoe.
Father met a lovely lady,
She had two daughters one
was crazy
Father and daughter went
to stay
In a mansion far away
Father turned ill one cold
day
everyone bowed their heads
to pray
Stepmother turned into a
witch
along with daughters became
a bitch
Cinderella was their slave
She stood tall tired and
brave
Cinderella's friends were very
few
she knew exactly what to do
Take care of stepmother
sister too
work and work till day is
thru
One day a messenger came to
call
inviting all girls to a ball
The prince was home it was
getting late
girls meet him at the kingdoms
gate
He was looking for his wife to
be
the King also wanted to see
The ugly sisters gowns were
fine
Cinderella thought where is
mine
Her little friends and two
field mice
thought about her problem
twice
We'll make a gown for our
friend to wear
she'll be beautiful ever so
fair
So the friendly sewing circle
began
sewing A lovely satin band
stepsisters started to contrive
to destroy her gown never to
arrive
Her fairy Godmother came in
view
She knew exactly what to do
Touched her with a magic wand
a fabulous gown she put on
Dressed in her stunning gown
of white
Cinderella was a pure delight
Waiting for her carriage of
gold
her future was about to unfold.
to be continue
A lonely child with toil o’ertaxed,
Sits Cinderella by the fire;
Her limbs in weariness relaxed,
And in her eyes a sad desire.
But soon a wreath is on her brow;
A bonny prince has claimed her hand;
And she’s as proud and happy now
As any lady in the land.
Ah, then to see a fairy bright,
And to have granted what you would,
You only needed to do right,
You only needed to be good.
But this was in the days of old,
When man to wiser folk would bow;
And though you were as good as gold
You’d never see a fairy now.
And yet they must have managed well
If only half the tales are true,
The wondrous tales the writers tell
Of what the fairies used to do.
But now the world has grown so wise
It does without the fairies’ aid;
And who can find a prince that tries
The shoe upon a beggar maid?
It must have been a better time
When virtue always met its due,
And “wicked men who dealt in crime”
Were punished by the fairies, too.
But never more they’ll come again
To give the good what they desire;
And Cinderellas wait in vain,
And weep beside the kitchen fire.
She takes in a breath as the roaring sun sets
And watch shadows fade into faint silhouettes
The smell of melted pink candles filled the air
As she sat beside Zeus in His mighty chair
The burning cold air caressed her long, black hair
Unraveling a night so mysteriously fair
As she takes a last sip from her iced champagne
She felt the forsaken blood run through her vein
Foolishly struggling and trying to keep sane
From all the anxiousness it cannot contain
She will try to set her tainted spirit free
She will try to find the secret garden's key
And sail briskly amidst the Aegean sea
Though trapped within William Shakespeare's tragedy
~ming
The clock has just struck one.
Have you seen Cinderella tonight?
Was she ever real?
Lost in the mist
Of lies and deception,
Hidden in the shadows
Where she used to feel safe,
With the aid of a secret Godmother,
Her ghost tries to find the light.
And as the moon is chased by the sun
Magic is replaced by reality
And all again are plain
And ordinary
And lifeless.
Tomorrow night
Her withered spirit
Will try once more to find her prince.
She believes that dreams are
Our pathway to magic
And I am definite that
Fairy tales end only when
We allow them to.
How my mother treats me, sweeping out the golden straw.
Only can it tilt us and it's us it can when only,
deeply in the girls our clear feelings show the crimson heels.
Arrows point out the doubts of what has yet to come.
Mask of crimson, the pupils of her green the silver hair,
made up is fate, face is fair the which she burns it up.
Just as suddenly like the wind when he arrives with fans,
and as I climb up the carriage steps it tilts.
He moves away now it retracts and it then begins again.
Each movement of the hand and arm sweet violin.
I am shy the palace is a worm like my dark hole.
Where I was kept like sour wine it can't be slipped.
Pinks and yellows red the rose from back to front.
Chalice like my being climbs the wall of sweet lilacs.
Grace this state I shine and the coming stars and years,
I hope each revolution yet to come slides up as night
must bring me down to what I am and my guilt for what was done.
The sound draws near the sound it is I wish corrosiveness.
Two arms one second hand of the clock which never heard.
Is Cinderella leading a happy life with her dearest prince still,
hand in hand, heading towards the same destination?
She knows how to eat with a fork made of gold?
She finds the silver cup to heavy to hold?
She ever fails to meet his expectation?
Can the loneliness her happiness kill?
She has a friend to talk to?
......
Yes, she should be happy,
she must be happy,
for I have provided her the best life a girl can possibly have,
and I have given her my every care to turn her into a real princess.
The prince said with confidence.
But is she still Cinderella?
I’m standing on the stairs in a magnificent hall
Wearing the dress that I bought for the ball
It’s long and flowing, sparkling white
My tiara of diamonds shines in the light
At the bottom of the stairs you’re waiting for me
And I gracefully float down for all to see
You take my hand and touch my face
You’re the only one I notice in the expansive space
We’re now dancing in shadows of flickering light
Holding each other close, holding each other tight
You kiss my neck and then touch my face
Then kiss my lips in a loving embrace
Time stands still whilst we are together
Feels so good, it seems like forever
I look at the clock, that cannot be right
But the bells start to chime, confirming midnight
But there’s no need to leave
From the ball tonight
I’ll be with you my prince
For the rest of our life.
Cinderella means the personality or beauty of a person,
Or things remain unrecognized in real and in version.
In our society there are some talented and wise people,
Some of them come to the knowledge of nation in ample.
There are some extraordinary children in our society,
Who can dance, sing and play on music in variety
Of course mass media brings some to our eyes,
Till in remote area few lads are left in rise.
There are some medicinal plants till now unrecognized,
Animals cure themselves by using these plants recognized.
Society develops through the person with strong personality,
They must come to our eyes that have the perfect morality.
Let's try to find them and to vanish of Cinderella,
Make hay while the sun shines or keeps in rain an umbrella.
My name's not Cinderella,
I don't need to be saved.
I don't have a wicked step mom,
My father's not away.
I don't sleep in the attic
I don't clean the fire place.
My name's not Cinderella
Now get out of my face!
I don't cook all the dinners
the breakfast, or the lunch
if I get in a fight, it's safe to assume
that I threw the first punch.
I'm not your Cinderella.
I don't need to be set free.
But if i did, I hope you'd play
The prince who rescued me! ♥
If my name was Cinderella
You could be the prince
I could wear my sparkling prom dress
We could fall in love the moment our eyes meet
If my name was Cinderella
If my name was Cinderella
We could have a song
And dance in the silver moonlight
You could hold me tight and spin me in the air
If my name was Cinderella
If my name was Cinderella
You could pick me up
In your gold and diamond carriage
You could be the hero of this fairytale
And I could be the one
If my name was Cinderella
But I can’t breathe, whenever you’re with me.
Can you feel my heartbeat in my chest
It’s getting faster every second
Time slows down,  you are better than the best
But would you feel the same
If my name was Cinderella
I can’t breathe
‘Cause I’m not Cinderella
Until you’re here with me
I’m not Cinderella
You touch my lips
I’m not Cinderella
Then you show me with a kiss
That I’m your Cinderella
A light like yours can lead me home.
A body warm inside my arms.
A fantasy so alive, made of flesh and bone.
A voice of warmth, a scent of light.
The taste of sunshine and the sound of your sight.
Might just be enough to save my mind.
If only once again I can find.
Cinderella dressed in white.
Standing next to me tonight
Why looking blue today
What’s the matter with you?
Where is Prince Charming?
Who are looking for now?
How you could have done this?
The teardrops fall tonight
Lost without a care to fight
Blowing in the wind now
Are the dreams you left
Your hearts in you hands
Slipping away till falls
Shattered it to pieces
Trying to put it back
With what is left of you
Thinking is there anything else
That I could do now
I wished it all a way
Here I am sitting here
Looking at shooting stars
Getting lost as I am
Cinderella, why do you wish to be like anyone else?
Your fine by yourself.
People notice you because your different
Cinderella, why do you wish to be pretty?
What you have is called inner beauty
I’m not giving you my pity
Cinderella, Why don’t you stand up to those snobs?
They are garbage compared to you
The people who rob
End up blue
Cinderella, Why don’t you take what’s yours?
And not just dust either
Stop doing those chores
Cinderella, Why don’t you go out?
Not as a maid but who you really are
Go a different route
You will shine like a star
Cinderella, why don’t you let the beauty out?
The prince will like you for you
Go out and about
Forget the glass shoe
Cinderella, why don’t you forget its midnight?
Show the prince who you really are
You wont win without a fight
I’m telling you shine like star
Be yourself not someone else
Descend from the foothill and don't you feel the humidity?
Dew drops scattered all over the meadow as pearls.
Give me your hand; hand-in-hand we can pick them before the sun rise.
The flowers forget-me-knots & chrysanthemums were in bloom next to Midwife's yard.
Do not forget to bring your cane basket.
Hand-in-hand; we can collect them before the sunrise.
Please bring your home work book too,
On the way we can do some corrections & fill in the blanks
In the moonlight before the teacher comes.
Cinderella, please give my lost childhood.
Dreaming
Every night
About holding you
In my arms
Your lips touching mine
In a never ending kiss
A promise of forever
With you by my side
My Prince Charming
That never did I think
In this world I would find
Flesh not fantasy anymore
That is my secret longing
To know you
To be held by you
Whispering
I love you and will never stop
Even after death
Nothing shall part us
If only
Fate would allow
I would be your Cinderella tonight
It's true
Yes, I have fallen in love with you
Sight unseen
Voice unheard
Heart and soul
How I long for you to be mine always
Praying
That soon we two shall find
The one thing we have always
Needed and hungered for
Tonight please lover come to your Cinderella
Writing this
So that you will know
I am here and I am waiting for you
Forever if I have to
I swear
Never will I stop trying to find you
The other half of my soul
The only man who can make me complete
God and I know you are out there
It is only a matter of time and fate before
Face to face we meet
Cinderella and her prince
Forever more
2008 Ramona Thompson
Her imaginary playmate was a grown-up
In sea-coal satin. The flame-blue glances,
The wings gauzy as the membrane that the ashes
Draw over an old ember --as the mother
In a jug of cider-- were a comfort to her.
They sat by the fire and told each other stories.
"What men want..." said the godmother softly--
How she went on it is hard for a man to say.
Their eyes, on their Father, were monumental marble.
Then they smiled like two old women, bussed each other,
Said, "Gossip, gossip"; and, lapped in each other's looks,
Mirror for Mirror, drank a cup of tea.
Of cambric tea. But there is a reality
Under the good silk of the good sisters'
Good ball gowns. She knew... Hard-breasted, naked-eyed,
She pushed her silk feet into glass, and rose within
A gown of imaginary gauze. The shy prince drank
A toast to her in champagne from her slipper
And breathed, "Bewitching!" Breathed, "I am bewitched!"
--She said to her godmother, "Men!"
And, later, looking down to see her flesh
Look back up from under lace, the ashy gauze
And pulsing marble of a bridal veil,
She wished it all a widow's coal-black weeds.
A sullen wife and a reluctant mother,
She sat all day in silence by the fire.
Better, later, to stare past her sons' sons,
Her daughters' daughter, and tell stories to the fire.
But best, dead, damned, to rock forever
Beside Hell's fireside-- to see within the flames
The Heaven to whosee gold-gauzed door there comes
A little dark old woman, the God's Mother,
And cries, "Come in, come in! My son's out now,
Out now, will be back soon, may be back never,
Who knows, eh? We know what they are--men, men!
But come, come in till then! Come in till then!
Pretty as a flower. Wild as a rose. Free as
a raven, off into the skies she goes. Dancing
until midnight. Till her eyes tire and close.
Then off into wonderful dreams, she does dose.
Cheerful and bright. A little bit too daring,
compassionate and caring. Her dinners are a
delight. As she slips into her ball gown, her
carriage awaits out under the, moonlight. And
any man would be lucky, to be her knight! ! !
We, the students do feel
That literature is a big deal
It is full of nonsense, 'tis true
But we can make lively and nice too
I believe in you, my friends
That you can achieve your ends
In understanding literature and its aims
And knowing all its titles and great names
Some poets can be role models for us
Others' idoicy we can laugh at and discuss
We may learn from some historic events
And take the morals behind what is meant
Some plays can be a source of inspiration
For students' great works and innovation
With this, my friends I end my song
Hopefully, nothing in it is at all wrong
I guess you think you know this story.
You don't. The real one's much more gory.
The phoney one, the one you know,
Was cooked up years and years ago,
And made to sound all soft and sappy
just to keep the children happy.
Mind you, they got the first bit right,
The bit where, in the dead of night,
The Ugly Sisters, jewels and all,
Departed for the Palace Ball,
While darling little Cinderella
Was locked up in a slimy cellar,
Where rats who wanted things to eat,
Began to nibble at her feet.
She bellowed 'Help!' and 'Let me out!
The Magic Fairy heard her shout.
Appearing in a blaze of light,
She said: 'My dear, are you all right?'
'All right?' cried Cindy .'Can't you see
'I feel as rotten as can be!'
She beat her fist against the wall,
And shouted, 'Get me to the Ball!
'There is a Disco at the Palace!
'The rest have gone and I am jealous!
'I want a dress! I want a coach!
'And earrings and a diamond brooch!
'And silver slippers, two of those!
'And lovely nylon panty hose!
'Done up like that I'll guarantee
'The handsome Prince will fall for me!'
The Fairy said, 'Hang on a tick.'
She gave her wand a mighty flick
And quickly, in no time at all,
Cindy was at the Palace Ball!
It made the Ugly Sisters wince
To see her dancing with the Prince.
She held him very tight and pressed
herself against his manly chest.
The Prince himself was turned to pulp,
All he could do was gasp and gulp.
Then midnight struck. She shouted,'Heck!
I've got to run to save my neck!'
The Prince cried, 'No! Alas! Alack!'
He grabbed her dress to hold her back.
As Cindy shouted, 'Let me go!'
The dress was ripped from head to toe.
She ran out in her underwear,
And lost one slipper on the stair.
The Prince was on it like a dart,
He pressed it to his pounding heart,
'The girl this slipper fits,' he cried,
'Tomorrow morn shall be my bride!
I'll visit every house in town
'Until I've tracked the maiden down!'
Then rather carelessly, I fear,
He placed it on a crate of beer.
At once, one of the Ugly Sisters,
(The one whose face was blotched with blisters)
Sneaked up and grabbed the dainty shoe,
And quickly flushed it down the loo.
Then in its place she calmly put
The slipper from her own left foot.
Ah ha, you see, the plot grows thicker,
And Cindy's luck starts looking sicker.
Next day, the Prince went charging down
To knock on all the doors in town.
In every house, the tension grew.
Who was the owner of the shoe?
The shoe was long and very wide.
(A normal foot got lost inside.)
Also it smelled a wee bit icky.
(The owner's feet were hot and sticky.)
Thousands of eager people came
To try it on, but all in vain.
Now came the Ugly Sisters' go.
One tried it on. The Prince screamed, 'No!'
But she screamed, 'Yes! It fits! Whoopee!
'So now you've got to marry me!'
The Prince went white from ear to ear.
He muttered, 'Let me out of here.'
'Oh no you don't! You made a vow!
'There's no way you can back out now!'
'Off with her head!'The Prince roared back.
They chopped it off with one big whack.
This pleased the Prince. He smiled and said,
'She's prettier without her head.'
Then up came Sister Number Two,
Who yelled, 'Now I will try the shoe!'
'Try this instead!' the Prince yelled back.
He swung his trusty sword and smack
Her head went crashing to the ground.
It bounced a bit and rolled around.
In the kitchen, peeling spuds,
Cinderella heard the thuds
Of bouncing heads upon the floor,
And poked her own head round the door.
'What's all the racket? 'Cindy cried.
'Mind your own bizz,' the Prince replied.
Poor Cindy's heart was torn to shreds.
My Prince! she thought. He chops off heads!
How could I marry anyone
Who does that sort of thing for fun?
The Prince cried, 'Who's this dirty slut?
'Off with her nut! Off with her nut!'
Just then, all in a blaze of light,
The Magic Fairy hove in sight,
Her Magic Wand went swoosh and swish!
'Cindy! 'she cried, 'come make a wish!
'Wish anything and have no doubt
'That I will make it come about!'
Cindy answered, 'Oh kind Fairy,
'This time I shall be more wary.
'No more Princes, no more money.
'I have had my taste of honey.
I'm wishing for a decent man.
'They're hard to find. D'you think you can?'
Within a minute, Cinderella
Was married to a lovely feller,
A simple jam maker by trade,
Who sold good home-made marmalade.
Their house was filled with smiles and laughter
And they were happy ever after.
Cinderella in the street
In a ragged gown,
Sloven slippers on her feet,
Shames our tidy town;
Harsh her locks of ashen grey,
Vapour vague her stare,
By the curb this bitter day
Selling papers there.
Cinderella once was sweet,
Fine and lily fair,
Silver slippers on her feet,
Ribands in her hair;
Solid men besought her hand,
Tart was she as quince,
Living in a fairy land,
Waiting for a Prince.
Days went by and years went by,
Wistful wan was she;
Heedless of a mother's sigh,
Of a lover's plea;
On her lips a carol gay,
In her heart a dream -
Soon the Prince would come her way,
Gallant and agleam.
Then at last she learned the truth,
How her hope was vain;
Gone her beauty, gone her youth,
Leaving want and pain.
See! she's waiting all alone;
Hark! you hear her cry
Papers by the cold curb-stone,
Begging you to buy.
Winter winds are waxing chill,
Clouds rack overhead;
Cinderella will be ill,
Bye and bye be dead.
Yet she kept her vision clear,
To Romance was true,
Holding him forever dear
Whom she never knew.
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
Cinderellas of to-day
Take no chance of loss;
When a good guy comes your way,
Nail him to the cross.
Let some ordinary cuss
Your coy heart convince;
Never miss the nuptial bus
Waiting for a Prince.
Cinderella was quite a nice girl, at the start
Then her mother passed away, which broke Daddy’s heart
But “Time heals all wounds”, and again he did marry
Of Daddy’s second wife, Cindy was wary.
For the woman was vain, most jealous and proud
“I’ll make this girl suffer! ” the old hag vowed
She and her two daughters, whenever Dad was away
Made Cin sleep in the cellar – that was on a good day!
Came a time when the heir to the throne (the prince)
Sent out invites to a ball (though at some girls he did wince)
For the ball was intended to find his fair bride
Kind, caring, princessy and not stuffed with pride
Cinder’s stepsisters were ooh! so very excited
She’d never seen them more distracted, disguised and delighted
All week, in Dad’s absence, she slaved to prepare
Scrubbed their dresses, ironed scarves and dreadlocked their hair
On the night of the ball Cinders eagerly did say
“So what do you think? Purple? Light grey? ”
“But you’re not going! Her stepmother cried from chambers within
And dragged to the cellar, Cindy’s stepsissies shoved her in
Off they went to the ball in a Ferrari F5
Leaving Cin alone in the cellar to scream, rant and rave
Just as she, in her anger, was about  to hurl a chair
“Do put that down, dear” a fairy said  and appeared from thin air
“Oh god-ma, do you really think you could? ”
She could and she did, with the warning she would
Have to be back by midnight, that’s all, off you go!
In no time at all a Merc dropped her off, “Oh! Thanks, Bozo! ”
Well, what a shock she got when she stepped in to the ballroom
She cried” I don’t want HIM to be my bridegroom! ”
For the prince was not tall, dashing, dot dot dot
On the contrary, he was speckled with spots and quite short
Cindy had a perfectly horrible night
Once home, she pleaded with all of her might
“Oh god-ma, I’ve learned a jolly good lesson”,
“D’ya think you could find me a nice man…like your grandson? ”
In no time, Cindy and god-ma’s grandson were wed
He was a kind boy, caring and very well-bred
And the prince? He  still scours the whole kingdom for feet
To match a glass slipper what Cindy lost at the palace in her hurried retreat.
It’s Midnight my love
Its time for me to disappear
And leave behind my
Golden slipper
For you to find
Making sure that
There will be another
Evening of pure delight
Don’t stop me my love
It’s a written rule from above
That your Cinderella
Must leave no matter what
At midnight on the dot
For if she does not
Yours will not
Be a happy lot
Please turn around my love
Cast a glance at the
Beauty that abounds
In this lovely gathering
Of dolled up ladies waiting
To play the game of mating
While you do that
Like lightening
I will be gone
For now
but I promise
I will come back again
She was the Cinderella
waiting for her prince charming,
but soon enough
she finallly found him.
She always doubted
he was the one,
and that he would leave her
for someone better,
even when he called her perfect
and that there was no one else
to take her place.
He was the prince charming
looking for his Cinderella
and he found her.
He would give her a look
followed by a gentle smile,
then a kiss.
He loved her
no matter how much she doubted him.
He knew they would be together forever.
Pierced the Rays of mighty sun-
To wake her up from slumber.
With head weighing like a ton,
She awaited for the thunder.
Shouts came, heavy steps in follow
Cleared her face, as slept near hearth.
Prepared she for yet another blow,
Calmness and patience she taught
And everyone called her Cinderella.
Amidst a darkened night
lay a dreadful sight,
inside a pumpkin;
she made her home.
Abandoned by her family
a stray in society.
She wears a torn, blue dress
her body- now straw
with stiches tearing apart her sides.
Once she was beautiful,
a prince would marry her any day.
But poor Cinder's never got the chance
Cinderella missed the dance.
Her fairy god mother was a deceiver
now only a rat would kiss her.
Her glass slippers full of cracks
her smile is cracked.
She missed the deadline as the clock struck ten.
Cinder's thought she had till twelve,
but the doors where closed, of the house she used to call home.
Her  eye's turned to buttons, all on their own
Cinderella had the pay the price.
So the fairy took her soul
she became a doll with a story- she was a so called fairy tale.
Used to wreak havoc on us humans and to manipulate our dreams.
-06/04/2015-
there was once a girl I knew
Her name was Cinderella
But Cinderella is way too long
We'll call her just Ella
Ella was a spoilt kid
Oh yes, she was
She rather barks than talks
not someone to cross
Then Gloomy air Spread everywhere
As her mother died with heart attack
All relatives cried at the news
Ella also did, but it was fake
His father married again
The lady had daughters of her own
Beautiful they were, oh yes
Names: Isabella and Sharon
Our Cinderella was very jealous
girls had taken her place, not one but two
Ella wanted to take revenge
From the girls, and their mother too!
But before she could do anything
The handsome prince called a ball
All the maidens were invited
It was to take place in the castle's hall
Excitement arose everywhere
Beautiful looked our Cinderella
But her stepsisters were their too
And their was no match for Isabella
The prince walked in the room
His eyes fell on Isabella
He asked her for a dance
And not our Cinderella
Soon the news spread through the kingdom
Prince and Isabella were to marry, no pretend
But then something happened
The prince chose Cinderella instead!
on the marriage day, bells rang
Ella and prince were coupled
But prince looked so forlorn and sad
As though he had just been crumpled
And as the carriage went, people wondered
What was it, that had dejected him
But we know the truth, that
Cinderella had a revolver to torture him!
'Oh I so...love to go
to balls! '
she laughed
as he gasped
clutching him
through his Armani trousers
kicking off her
what looked for all the world
glass slippers.
She smiled
(to hereslef)
unzipped and held him
stiffly
dangerously
like a bomb
that could go off
at any given moment
she the trigger
he pulsating
gorgeously in her hand
'Ah...this I love
this the best part
of a man! '
'I lost in lust
loving
the beauty of
the beast! '
The party is over,
the last dance is playing,
and soon you’ll be going home,
and once again hanging up,
your Cinderella shoes.
(8 August 2007)
Cinderella a great social symbol
Stood for service to fellow humans
Family woman stood with her
Rights issues took by Cinderella
Took the cases to courts of justice.
Organised the woman for empowerment
Education were her favorite theme
The little girl she persuaded to school
The Poor girls she gave books and bags
Cinderella the great girl of friendship
The neighbors respected ever in pride
She was a brave, had strong will power
Seldom shown mercy to the abusers.
Cinderella herself had a chosen carrier
The human psychology she graduated
Counselling made to the woman in village
Where she tried her best to raise the respect
That deserved the woman in public life.
The sky is watching
As the night is listening
She stares out the window
her eyes glistening
As she awaits in her castle
Waiting for her prince charming…
Every girl has once fell victim
Of the Cinderella Syndrome
Where her dreams and fantasies wonder around
And have a tendency to roam.
She dreams of a life with a step-mother and sisters
Who treat her so cruel and mean
But then she’s saved by a magic Godmother
And becomes the most beautiful ever seen.
With a gown so beautiful and slippers of glass
She quickly heads out to the ball
And there she dreams the Prince will see her
And think she’s the fairest of all.
And then she’ll dream of dancing with the Prince
And be in treasured bliss
Knowing that their love will soon come true
Once they share that infamous kiss.
Yet midnight strikes and now the carriage
Is a pumpkin from the change
But she knows the ending of this fairytale
And knows her dream won’t rearrange.
But she does not have that glass slipper
To prove the shoe did fit
And her dream of ever being with the Prince
Is now only a counterfeit.
And yet young girls keep dreaming on
Without knowing the actuality
That glass slippers, and Princes and true loves
Will never be a reality.
i have this disease, it
makes you think there
is happiness and that
there is no wrong done i the
world
it makes you belive that
you can be happy all the
time
that someome will take
you away from this hell hole
that your asleep and
just having a bad dream, and
that youll wake up and
everything will be perfect.
i have this disease
and its called
Cinderella-syndrom.
Cinderella the cute girl
Cinderella the poor girl
The kind full heart there have
The noble thoughts always
Still there were enemies
The poor Cinderella wandered
Chased by the devils
Grace of god protected
Demons made there traps
God saved from dangers
Poor Cinderella have no death
Wandering for well being
Of the living Cinderellas
In countries beyond her reach
Warning to safety ways she cares
Cinderella a symbol of love
Cinderella a sign of hardship
Cinderella a victim always
Still triumphed on her love
Faced the life challenges
And got married to the prince.
Cinderella the dear girl
The fondness of love you gave
The unselfish gestures to guests
The great wishes of you
Ever it is pleasure to remember
Curses followed you but never minded
Attempts to destroy the future
Never minded, but always cried
The god saved you at last
You got your loved one the prince
The great achievement for your life
Cinderella the kindness in your heart
Love the children and the world
Humanity in your words always
Pleasantness in your feelings followed
Ignorance never minded
Attentive to the  people whom you care
The world is with you poor girl
Not as a victim but a successful heart.
Delight you cinderella
The world of joy there we see
The world of hope we expect
The world of peace there will be
Rejoice, my sister cinderella
Never we desperate and disillusioned
There is glittering shines ahead
There is helping hands surrounded
There we see the lifeboats when drowns
The needy man have no pride at all
The needy hand always never tires
Cinderella the little one
The great human heart god's bless
Ever you will win never fail
You are the hope, you are genuine
The symbol of unity oh! Cinderella.
There I saw a beautiful girl
In the little street of the town
In shabby dressed, the girl seen
In speedy steps she was walking
But somewhere in fear she seemed
The time was evening nearing dark
The night was slowly taking place
The girl was in busy walk in street
The girl is beyond the reach of eye
Where I mistaken for cinderella the girl.
Cinderella the young one
Her story a tragic one
written by hearsay
Turned to be a moral one.
Cinderella the beautiful
Cinderella the marvelous
Cinderella have no comparison
Gods grace showered in her
But tested with bad events.
Cinderella the luckier one
Saved from the wicked ones
Got one the great prince
The prince himself charming
The prince himself good looking
Ever pride to the dignified girl
Cinderella the young girl
From curse to blessing she became.
Once upon a time there was a daughter,
In family of merchant she was in laughter.
The time came she lost her both parents,
Thirteen brothers left one sister tenants.
All brothers were happy with sister-in-laws,
Family fell in maintenance of their clause.
Brothers were affectionate towards sister,
Love was unbending and love was their factor.
One day brothers went for business far place,
Sister played with friends to win life's race.
Sister-in-laws planned and tortured her more,
In absence of brothers she cried from her core.
Brother's wives sent her to forest with goats,
On grazing one was missed she fell in notes.
She cried in deep forest due to tiger lion fear,
Forgetting in path in pain she searched in cheer.
Soon she surrendered before supreme God,
In God's feet she poured devotion and did nod.
Fear went away; obstacles broke at a moment,
With courage moving in forest got goat comment.
Prayed God to forgive them to her sister-in-laws,
She urged God to free all from illusion's claws.
Victory of Cinderella, daughter of dead merchant
Even today people sing Gog's glory, verses chant.
So this is love?
Is this what they told me of?
Because I don't feel the connection
And where it is going, which direction
So this is what makes life worth while?
Has it always been this style?
How is it to fill the empty spaces
If I cannot even see its true faces
So this is love?
I don't feel that it is enough
Because my heart can't fly with wings
And my heart hasn't found the song its to sing
So this s the warmth of aglow?
Well, I don't think that I know
That Heaven is as divine
And I can tell that it will never be mine
So this...
Is the miracle that I've been dreaming of?
So this...
Is love? ...
My biggest fear since I was small has
ever been fear of boring nothingness
I commiserated with the animals for
their confinement to the here and now
and their enslavement to nature’s cycles
desperately seeking my own escape
through mind- power and ethereal
thoughts, but today I realize BEING is
JOY –only I am bereft of that privilege
of joyful being through my allergy…
I’m so glad to know the goodness of
the universe, but my question is
why was I born without the ability
to enjoy being ‘per se’, confined
to discomfort and pain – why was
I left out of everything? And will
this Cinderella ever get to go
to the ball?
where are her little helpers
those nice little mice
why is she so alone in it all
where is her fairy god mother
to say 'poof' and it all be gone
she needs a break
she needs for once to care for herself
when will she get to meet her prince
one that will sweeep her off her feet
will love her for who she is
she may not have to ugly step sisters
or a evil step mom
but she has an evil step dad
and distant mother
both with anger problems
i would call it even
she fights to calm her mind
as she dreams of the singing butterflies
she needs to escape
she needs to get away
that is it magic or not
she is packing up her pumpkin
and leaving
good bye
farewell
have a nice life
she cries
with an evil grin
as she rides away
in her half broken pumpkin
The vainest girls in forty states
Were Gwendolyn and Gladys Gates;
They warbled slightly off the air,
Romantic German songs,
And each of them upon her hair
Employed the curling tongs,
And each with ardor most intense
Her buxom figure laced,
Until her wilful want of sense
Procured a woeful waist:
For bound to marry titled mates
Were Gwendolyn and Gladys Gates.
Yet, truth to tell, the swains were few
Of Gwendolyn (and Gladys, too).
So morning, afternoon, and night
Upon their sister they
Were wont to vent their selfish spite,
And in the rudest way:
For though her name was Leonore,
That's neither there nor here,
They called her Cinderella, for
The kitchen was her sphere,
Save when the hair she had to do
Of Gwendolyn (and Gladys, too).
Each night to dances and to fetes
Went Gwendolyn and Gladys Gates,
And Cinderella watched them go
In silks and satins clad:
A prince invited them, and so
They put on all they had!
But one fine night, as all alone
She watched the flames leap higher,
A small and stooping fairy crone
Stept nimbly from the fire.
Said she: 'The pride upon me grates
Of Gwendolyn and Gladys Gates.'
'I'll now,' she added, with a frown,
'Call Gwendolyn and Gladys down!'
And, ere your fingers you could snap,
There stood before the door
No paltry hired horse and trap,
Oh, no! - a coach and four!
And Cinderella, fitted out
Regardless of expense,
Made both her sisters look about
Like thirty-seven cents!
The prince, with one look at her gown,
Turned Gwendolyn and Gladys down!
Wall-flowers, when thus compared with her,
Both Gwendolyn and Gladys were.
The prince but gave them glances hard,
No gracious word he said;
He scratched their names from off his card,
And wrote hers down instead:
And where he would bestow his hand
He showed them in a trice
By handing her the kisses, and
To each of them an ice!
In sudden need of fire and fur
Both Gwendolyn and Gladys were.
At ten o'clock, in discontent,
Both Gwendolyn and Gladys went.
Their sister stayed till after two,
And, with a joy sincere,
The prince obtained her crystal shoe
By way of souvenir.
'Upon the bridal path,' he cried,
'We'll reign together! Since
I love you, you must be my bride!'
(He was no slouch, that prince!)
And into sudden languishment
Both Gwendolyn and Gladys went.
The Moral: All the girls on earth
Exaggerate their proper worth.
They think the very shoes they wear
Are worth the average millionaire;
Whereas few pairs in any town
Can be half-sold for half a crown!
I am not Cinderella
I am not beautiful in every way
I do not have malevolent family members
I do not have a prince
I do not have a fairy god-mother
I am not a silent, graceful girl
I am exceptional
I have my disfigurements
I have kindhearted family members
I have a bread boy
I have a guardian spirit
I am a clamorous, unrefined woman
I am not Cinderella
For me, I am unique.
She is my Cinderella                                                  And I am her prince for ever,                                        We were born to be like this                                          Cinderella and the prince,                                           Our hearts got united with the                                        Bond of love and in the kingdom                                       Of love for ever and ever,                                           I can not live away from her and                                      She can not live away from me,                                       Our love is pretty and unique in                                      All of its aspects anytime,                                          Our dreams are the same and our                                       Hearts unite to have a strong love,                                  She is my hope and my life and                                        I am her guy who dwells in her heart, so                              We were born to be pretty lovers and                                  To be together for ever and ever.                                    انها سندريلا                                                            و انا اميرها الى الابد                                                   ولدنا لنكون هكدا                                                      سندريلا و الامير                                                         اتحدت قلوبنا برباط الحب                                                 و في مملكة الحب                                                          لااستطيع العيش بعيدا عنها و                                            لاتستطيع العيش بعيدا عني                                                حبنا رائغ و فريد في                                                    كل اوجهه في اي وقت                                                     احلامنا ذاتها و                                                         تتحد قلوبنا ليكون هناك حبا قويا                                       هي املي و حياني و                                                     و انا الرجل الذي يسكن في قلبها, و لذلك                                فنحن ولدنا لنكون حبيبن و                                               لنكون معا الى ابد الابدين.
This bell ring spread a beautiful memories
About a girl who tried to catch a little dream
Unfortunely she found herself in a middle of
Life that she couldn’t spend without perseverance
She now close her heart to anybody else
Then a charming prince come to lend a hand
To a poor little girl who couldn’t feel
Love or happiness she’s hard to believe in
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
She said
I’m not live or wait for white horse mounts
I’m not want to love or be loved
That’s not a thing like I could hand on
Everyday till past I live in the heavy rain
And I don’t need you to give me a sunshine
I’m not cry or hurt at night
Don’t stand on your own mind! ! ! !
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
Not that time or this time
Waiting for true love?
Don’t say a mess
But yes she used to dream as one
Wear a white dress with a man who stand
Right beside her
Carrying her hand
Then they kissed
Live happy ever after
But
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
I will love without be loved
And only lost
To a beauty dream like you just appear
And if I give you my heart you will tear it apart
But
I’m not Cinderella or any princess else
No love story will tell in my midnight tale
I'm not that Cinderella, ,
I’m not right all the time,
And I’m not gonna sit in a cold, dusty old attic,
Just Waiting and waiting for that someone to come and find me.
And then one day I realized,
The fariytale life just isnt the life for me.
I'm not that Cinderella.
I know that one day will be the day I'll find someone who loves me,
who needs me,
Who wants me for my heart and soul,
and not just a pretty face,
and he’s isn’t scared to show that he loves me.
A one who will see
that I’m pleased who I am,
I’m not that Cinderella.
I can chase my own Monsters,
Out of my room.
I Can dream my own dreams,
But maybe not accomplish them.
And my knight in shining armour,
Is upto me.
I'm not that Cinderella.
I don't wanna be like anyone else,
I wanna be an individual,
Not like the pretty girls you see in the story books,
JUST ME (:
I'm not that Cinderella.
Don't be afraid of, cinderella
The girl of truth, and nicety
The little one, the joyful one
Where innocence in mind
Energetic in actions
Cinderella, the girl loved by all.
But poor cinderella the poor girl
The devils always followed her
Tried to do damages in full spirit
But her faith always stood with her
She got her prince the most loved one
The noble hearts always wins.
From dusk to dawn,
From town to town,
Without a single clue,
I seek the tender, slender foot
To fit this crystal shoe.
From dusk to dawn,
I try it on
Each damsel that I meet.
And I still love her so, but oh,
I've started hating feet.
I spend my days like Cinderella
I want a prince of America
I love to dance like Cinderella
I want to live in America
I squeeze my pillow at night
Thinking of holding him tight
In my arms and in my bed
Why God acts like He is dead
I change the channel of TV
May be He is in the movie
I look for him in the web
But I find nowhere my babe
I have waited for so long
To write and sing a love song
Only for him for the dance
So no one else stand a chance
If I was Cinderella would you love me?
Would you pick me up in a gold carriage and dance with me till midnight?
When I run, will you never give up, and chase after me just to give me a passionate kiss?
Will you marry me the next day, saying that you found your one and true love?
Will you make me feel special, and shower me with love and support that any man should give to his women?
But, that won't happen.
Because I'm not Cinderella. I'm not Cinderella, because I won't have anyone that will love me enough to drive me in a golden carriage, or chase after me when I get to scared to commit to anyone. I won't have anyone that will marry me the next day, because they know that I'm their one and true love. I won't have anyone who will dance with me till midnight, because I'm just that special.
I wont have anyone to give me that passionate kiss.
To give me, that passionate kiss.
Cinderella the girl
The village grown
Neither fairy nor devilish
Only a village girl
An innocent human girl.
Cinderella a serious student
Tried hard to achieve goals
To make herself to become a hero
In studies, sports, and arts
In singing her sound so melancholy
Our cinderella never failed.
Cinderella the girl pubescent
The mother told to neighbors
The women loved her very much
The beauty queen of the village
Cinderella never prided herself.
A humble and lovable human being
Cinderella helped the people
To make the illiterate literate
The inhuman  as a human being
Tried her best for welfare measures.
Still people cursed each other
Still people quarreled themselves
Tried to harm others feelings
Poor cinderella failed her attempts.
Then came a marriage proposal
The beauty of cinderella spread around
The prince came in picture
The devil made to block the proposal
But the prince adamant and decides
To marry the poor cinderella the humble.
She enjoyed the life with humility
Never boasted for her wealth or husband
Tried her best to do services
Liked the people rich or poor no matter.
A successful journey of life she followed.
Look me over, kid!
I know I’m neat, -
Little Cinderella from head to feet.
Drinks all night at Club Alabam, -
What comes next I don’t give a damn!
Daddy, daddy,
You sho looks keen!
I likes men that are long and lean.
Broad Street ain’t got no brighter lights
Than your eyes at pitch midnight.
Once some children
Said to Grandmother,
"Please tell us a story
We are in wait no bother."
Grandmother with a smile
In her rosy lip,
Began to tell a fairy tale
She sat on a chair hip.
She said about Cinderella
Whom people do ignore,
"Here is a story of orphan girl
She never feels bore."
Her name was Lucy
She had four brothers,
She had moral qualities
She was helping to others.
The brothers went on
A long journey for trade,
The wives ordered Lucy
To went with goats to glade.
There Lucy made the goats
Grazing, she was about to ruin,
A prince came near her
And he made her queen.
They took farewell from sisters-in laws
And they came back to kingdom,
There with all Lucy lived happily
She did get more freedom.
Lucy was moral in character
She was praying God,
God helps those creatures
Who pray him and nod.
Prince recognized the quality
And inner beauty of her,
Here Cinderella vanished
And they lived like Zur.
This is one of my poems in my current erotic poem book I am writing to publish later this year. And please it is all based on imagination!
The smell of her strong musky fragrance
Imposed on me a certain disturbance
Clearly in the air there was no romance
Perhaps that was a sign of its entrance
That night I slept but a little
My fingers in a constant fiddle
Tossing and turning
My imagination running
Wow! She was stunning
Her lips alone I couldn’t dismiss
Even with a single kiss
I simply do not know how to ‘take the piss’
Those delicate rosy cushy red lips
Needed seven times seven daily kiss trips
With special tantalizing nurturing from my lips
Her large beautiful breasts
Lay hidden beneath her blouse
She was not yet my spouse
Yet every part of me was aroused
I’ll like to grind my body upon her thighs
Feed her lips with laughter and moaning cries
Share intimacy with her below the midnight skies
Someday maybe together we may fly
Who knows how high if we try!
And when she spoke
Her words alone were electrifying
While I listened mesmerising
Memorising every word she spoke
Until my brain was literally soaked
I like to kiss her body inch by inch
Tease her with every flinch and with soft pinches
Touch and caress her smooth black ebony skin
Taste her breasts as our love manifest at a love nest
Pin her to the bedroom wall and make love to her gently
Talk to her beautiful body all night tenderly
Her juicy pie will get wetter than wet
So she will never forget the day we met
On a beautiful night of poetry
With women writers making history
Her thoughts were with another
At first I thought her poem
Was about her sister or her mother
Never guessed it was her ex-lover
It seems Miss Cinderella
Is still hanging on to what is gone
Miss Cinderella
Sometime, I’ll like to take you out for some fun
The wonderful night past
She vanished so fast
No phone calls, just occasion text and emails
Where have I failed, or have I failed
Before I even started to set sail?
I can’t call now, Life’s pressure is written on my wall
I’m not entitled to pleasure in my crystal ball
But it seems Miss Cinderella
Is still hanging on to what is gone
Miss Cinderella
Sometime, I’ll like to take you out for some fun
Take a walk with you under the sun
Massage your body beautifully as we take turns
Play hide and seek as we take shelter and run
I could bake you one of my delicate buns
Miss Cinderella
Stop hanging to what is gone
All that is past and done
My passion for you is about to be born
My feeling for you is better than none
I invite you to sing with me my song
There is this feeling I have
We cannot be wrong!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I'm a modern Cinderella.
I wish I was more like Twighlight's Bella.
But i'm locked away.
It's like that everyday.
I'm the modern Cinderella.
I wish I was the Enchanted Ella.
My family wants to get rid of me.
This no one really sees.
I'm the Modern Cinderella.
Never mind Bella.
I'm meeting you for the very first time.
This the day I challenge my self to sing 'The Climb.'
I'm the modern Cinderella
Never mind Ella.
We feel in love at first sight.
Now the clock strikes midnight.
I'm the modern Cinderella.
Never the orginal.
Never mind Bella.
Never mind Ella.
I don't run in flight.
I'm prepared to fight.
I'm the modern Cinderella.
See me as I am.
See the real me.
Not the person I pretened to be.
I'm the modern Cinderella.
Nothing like the original.
Not like Bella.
Not like Ella.
Now i've found my modern Prince.
I am me.
I'm the Modern Cinderella....
We used to love, we used to dance.
But something happened to make the love vanish.
The dance ended as my Cinderella left me, slipping through my hands like the sands of time.
Now I'm hiding all my pain as I wonder if she's doing the same. Everyone asks if I'm fine, and that I'll move on someday, and I know this is true, but for now, I want my Cinderella back.
It hurts to think about it, no matter what I do, the dreams of the past haunt me.The laughs, smiles, hugs, dates, and kisses. They all won't leave me alone, as I keep wanting her back, nights of restless sleep for a few weeks.
I act like I'm fie, but in reality, I just want her to give me one more chance, perhaps a dance. We would dance slowly, just like before, and I would smile, because I would have my Cinderella back.
Gently into the bright future I sway;
Then I met her so fair on my way and
To her beauty a gaze I never say nay. For
In her I see the face of my Cinderella.
Her fairness no comparism, my confession-
Be of the damsel who in heart is full of passion. That
My desire of her I cannot hold back my emotion'
To call her my Cinderella.
The dance of her beauty leaves no measure.
Capturing my fantasy in great pleasure;
Forever with her be my time leisure
To always have a dance with her, my Cinderella.
Round in the shadowy whirl wind of fantasy;
Goes a great sense of me ecstasy-
With streams of passionate intimacy
To always behold her so pretty- my Cinderella.
Behold! Illusions now come to reality.
Imagination in great confidence calleth opportunity
Featuring the heart in that sense of utility'
Of having the one who shall be my Cinderella.
Shall I not look upon your beauty, that
Like a dance in the Milky Way
With heart full of appreciation of
Your majestic effervescence
Say… You are MY CINDERELLA.
You seemed like a really good catch
until that night at your place
dollar store votive candles
boxed wine
and for dinner
frozen lasagna
you picked up at the drug store
when you got your industrial
size bottle of opiates
now my good catch
began to rot
Mom always told me about
how many
fish there where in
the sea
and I had to land you
the cheap
broke
slimy
bottom feeder
Mom also said it's just
as easy to fall in
love with a rich man
most millionaires
avoid cheap dates
dull and dusty
conversations
and dollar stores
So I dream of
my knight in
shining armor
and pray he
doesn't
rust before
I find him.
I'm suffering through
a Cinderella story
on hold.
Wrongs to commit them.
Are wrongs to commit. Period!
And there is no Cinderella slipper,
Going to fit the magnitude of that foot.
No matter who attempts to push,
That agenda.
In the hope the misdeeds done,
Will minimize the size of what has happened.
To depict the doer,
As a victim of mistaken identity.
Maybe in another fairytale to tell.
And that slipper is replaced,
With a distribution of medication...
To erase all misdeeds,
Witnessed to have taken place.
Deluding a sunken boat rises to the surface.
With no one to remember,
The many moons and midnights to pass.
Hoping to convince what is observed,
Rising to float upon the surface...
Is nothing more,
Than an innocent empty pumpkin.
To have been accused for horrendous activities.
And...
Leaving this deception,
Bought and sold.
By those on the highest of 'highs',
The telling to accept lies will get them!
In the glaring sun on the melting sand
She  marches from near by souk
Pushing a shopping cart to noble palace
Where she slaves for the day and night
As usual pulling air into empty lungs
Agape mouthed open eyed
At a hot summer noon
Nightmares of life 'Cinderella' dreams
She gifts fake legs to loving soul mate
Lost his legs in a minefield
Delays father's death swallowing by a cancer
She dives into the sea in search of elixir
Lights lavender candles on mother's tomb
Before she bore in mind died in a flood
Sends three brothers back school again
She wants to give them what she missed in life
Smiles like a heroine murmurs to herself
Wiping sweat off 'Cinderella' sighs
Whole three years she saved a bit
Flies soon back to her homeland
No wonder everybody in her village
Gather round to listen her adventures
Of the magic land where she lived
She remembers all 'Cinderella' witnesses
With a one pat of the magic wand
A mountain of money creates from oil
All rights of humans vanish in a minute
Generosity, kindness change to sandstorm
For a slight mishap downpour of abuses
Colourful apparels raise from heaven
Mock at her peeping into her wallet
Skyscrapers make necks ache
Glittering wealth makes eyes blurred
Cars as arrows pass blasting honks
Carrying princesses of her same age
All these to her just another mirage
'Cinderella' giggles
From far she sees ' Lady' at the gate
Shining shela and abaya in black
Wiping tears off she speeds up
Ten metres per second
'Cinderella' awakes
souk = Arab bazaar
shela =  a kind of scarf Arab ladies cover their heads
abaya = a kind of knee lengthed  black robe Arab ladies wear over casual dress
(Note: I wrote this poem as a tribute to underprivileged young maids who work in rich Arab countries sacrificing their  youthfulness to support  families in their homelands.)
Once there was a gal named Priscilla,
'Pon wedding, she was called Cinderella.
But she was heard in a room
Just a fussing at her groom,
And her name was quickly changed to Bridezilla.
(Limerick)
From dawn till dusk,
from land to land,
without too much ado,
I'd seek the perfect ankle,
From dawn til dusk
I'd stretch my hand
to virgin, husk, not you!
perceptions change, oh dear, they do!
perfection minds must rankle
In Search of Cinderella
From dusk to dawn,
From town to town,
Without a single clue,
I seek the tender, slender foot
To fit this crystal shoe.
From dusk to dawn,
I try it on
Each damsel that I meet.
And I still love her so, but oh,
I've started hating feet.
Shel Silverstein
I would fade away if you pass me over
You’re making me walk through a broken glass
I ‘m getting more comprised in your love as the day passes
You’re not a fantasy, myth or an illusion
You’re the predicament of hopelessness in my story
The prologue starts off in a Cinderella story scene
With riots, masquerade, jamboree and parade
This was the dawn of love era in the century
As I marched your path at the time of misfortune
I got lost with no direction, no map and no one to mascot
The Cinderella scene seems to fade out in the darkness of catastrophe
All the pigments of bliss is no longer in the arena
You change it all for your egoism not knowing I was waning
Now I m standing in inertia with my hope failing
You’re forbidding me in every possible way
And abandoning me in the middle of nowhere
The situation so perilous is digging me into anesthesia
I m falling, failing, crying, stumbling but you never seem to care
This is not what was meant to be in the act
It’s an inevitable site where I m forced down
This insanity is just too factual to rely on
You could stab me or slay me into million pieces
The wind of agony is passing me over with constant might
But it’s not bothering me in anyway I m still standing in inertia
After a while I start to comprehend what the reality is
Promises are always made to be broken without justification
Tears don’t always make thing the way it should be
Cinderella story can end up without any prince charming showing up
Love always ends up with hurt, pain, misery and an unhappy ending
Pigments of bliss is just a faint beam in the darkness
And the most hurtful and agonizing fact is that
Goodbye is a word that is used to go away and it really is forever
Do you remember the Ball, Cinderella, do you recall the Ball?
And the prancing, glancing, dancing
of blissed eyes Do you remember the Ball, Cinderella, do you recall the Ball?
And the prancing, glancing, dancing
of blissed eyes Chance kissed romancing;
and the breeeze teasing sneeze when I fell to my knees with a bawl,
winter freezing causing wheezing,  seizing me just when advancing,
causing you to forestall!
shining goblets fine wine full, lining guzzling gullets, free for all,
the vicious suspicious looks of ambitious
matrons with delicious daughters on call!
supercallifragilisticexpialidocious withal!
Do you remember the Ball, Cinderella, do you recall the free-for-all brawl?
Then the clock that twelve struck when luck ran amuck
when the slipper slipped ‘mid many
that it didn’t fit, - not any, neither Terri, Tonie, Jenny, -
And the hammering on the doors and the din?
And the hip! hop! hap! of the clap
of the reins on the rump on the pump-
kin’s horses clancing, prancing, fading hooves distancing.
Waiting not, with forceful trot they went, with wings lent,
and tlic! tloc! knock echoed far...
Do you remember the Ball, Cinderella, do you recall the Ball?
Never more, Cinderella, what a bore!  Only the fairy foresaw
the slipper left standing at the door.  No trace! – none at all,
in the walls of the Hall where falls the face
of the Prince rincing eyes, for the foot-falls
echo like the boom of doom in an empty room
while the footman horsing around with the kitchen maid
made merry with the sherry on the fly which wasn't very
prim and proper till p'lice copper came and played
on his whistle calling order be obeyed
with his siren shrilling, silver badge displayed.
In this New Year now I'm chasing shadows everywhere retracing
Cinderella's steps my heart can't bear replacing,
pacing here and there and up and down unlacing
treasured slipper pleasure's promise acts as casing,
spacing out without her footloose pulse a-racing,
only pain remains it seems, vain dreams embracing...
There was a letter in the mail,
I dreamed that night about
a woman named Tara McHale.
Although there were those lips that pout,
it was the presence of  a breeze
made up of warmth and intellect,
she stopped for just a minute, just to tease
yet it was futile and I was not able to detect
more than the pheromones of something great,
of youth and fresh  aroma, passing through,
of silent whispers knitting silk for a debate
she left behind for me her cinderella shoe.
Fancy clothes, tiara like a queen
Why can't I come in my jeans?
Manicured nails, skin like a dove
Why can't I wear my baseball glove?
Jewellery from head to toe
Even though I don't wanna go
Don't need my hair curled or any more make-up
So much 'girlishness' I think I might just throw up
Do I really have to go to the ball
And no lets NOT head to the mall
'Cause all this princess stuff is making me wince
And I certainly not marrying any prince
'Cause all I wanna do is watch wrestling on TV
So stop trying to make a Cinderella out of me! ! !
I want to drink the ocean to come to you
I want to give you the kiss the one you need
I want to wake you up from endless sleep
To teach you Poisoned apples not to eat
I m in love with the powers of your words
Climbing in my desert like gorgious dolls
I don't know the colour of your eyes
But when I see the moon I feel their light
Spring it is! Bouncy and crisp.
Sunshine, cheerful and sparkling.
The almond blossoms, as pretty as pink,
Why mustn't Cinderella dance again!
Out of bed from one more winter,
Her bosom rises to the sinless breeze.
Pensive yet lavish like a dream,
A born Eden, she fancies one more ball.
The tales of oppression are no fable
Her rags are real and sorrow acute.
Beset with a curse, dyed in her own blood
Every spring, she wakens to live some more.
It is time! Tulips bejewel her emerald frock,
And the falls frame glass slippers on her feet.
A snug shikara is her golden carriage,
And the depths of the Lake, her loyal coachmen.
Ah! She dances like she has never danced before
For, who knows, how distant the next spring is!
Her summers are timid and autumns cold
Thus, she dances like she has never danced before.
Her moves in meadows, firm and tireless,
Cinderella waltzes like a Queen of resilience.
Her pace through Boulevard, smooth and sensuous,
Cinderella swans like a native enchantress.
Every spring, she readies for the ball
Every spring, she loses a glass slipper.
No Prince has come in search yet,
No vows of peace and passion held.
Thence, in her fields and on her streets,
Beside the tulips and by the Lake,
Like a Tsarina of a charmed kingdom,
This spring, why mustn't Cinderella dance again!
in my heart
a river runs
alluvial, fishes,
leaves, flowers and all
a catfish winds
its way up to the surface
shows its pinkish whiskers
and round mouth
and down in a fleet second
puyu splash
their way down
after a fall
bubble, splash, bubble, splash,
big fish, small fish,
breakdance
down the river
their only way to show
joy and gratitude
for nature's care
like a gymnast
they turn their tails up
bend and sweep
the water swivels
and down they go
head plunging
the river a stage
of tail splashing game
how the world has changed since
thirty years the sweep of  a puyu's tail
i could still collect that childhood heart
that had gone afflutter
the river that has changed course
to run through my heart
calming nerves and evoking childhood joy
the river now buried deep
in the town's memory
the river now imprisoned
caged between cement walls
no more fishes, no more splashdance, breakdance
red water, blooms and leaves!
the river that now only has me as its fish
splashing every now and then
to let its sweetness flow forth
the river now buried deep in the earth
in the city's mind
inspired by
A Brook In The City
The farmhouse lingers, though averse to square
With the new city street it has to wear
A number in. But what about the brook
That held the house as in an elbow-crook?
I ask as one who knew the brook, its strength
And impulse, having dipped a finger length
And made it leap my knuckle, having tossed
A flower to try its currents where they crossed.
The meadow grass could be cemented down
From growing under pavements of a town;
The apple trees be sent to hearth-stone flame.
Is water wood to serve a brook the same?
How else dispose of an immortal force
No longer needed? Staunch it at its source
With cinder loads dumped down? The brook was thrown
Deep in a sewer dungeon under stone
In fetid darkness still to live and run -
And all for nothing it had ever done
Except forget to go in fear perhaps.
No one would know except for ancient maps
That such a brook ran water. But I wonder
If from its being kept forever under,
The thoughts may not have risen that so keep
This new-built city from both work and sleep.
Robert Frost
The farmhouse lingers, though averse to square
With the new city street it has to wear
A number in. But what about the brook
That held the house as in an elbow-crook?
I ask as one who knew the brook, its strength
And impulse, having dipped a finger length
And made it leap my knuckle, having tossed
A flower to try its currents where they crossed.
The meadow grass could be cemented down
From growing under pavements of a town;
The apple trees be sent to hearth-stone flame.
Is water wood to serve a brook the same?
How else dispose of an immortal force
No longer needed? Staunch it at its source
With cinder loads dumped down? The brook was thrown
Deep in a sewer dungeon under stone
In fetid darkness still to live and run --
And all for nothing it had ever done
Except forget to go in fear perhaps.
No one would know except for ancient maps
That such a brook ran water. But I wonder
If from its being kept forever under,
The thoughts may not have risen that so keep
This new-built city from both work and sleep.
Unlovely city, to which few tourists come
With squinting cameras and alien hats;
Left under a cloud by those who love the sun
And can afford to marry – a cloud of bits
Of soot more myriad than gnats, a cloud
Of smoke and rain, an insubstantial threat
Whose colour is the pigment of long wrath,
I think of you, surprised to find my blood
Warmed by a wry desire, a kind of love.
I see the trams, like galleons at night,
Go rocking with their golden cargo down
The iron hills; then hearing that bold din
My other senses frolic at a fête
Of phantom guests – the smells of fish and chips,
Laborious smoke, stale beer and autumn gusts,
The whispering shadows and the winking hips,
The crack of frosty whips, brief summer"s dust.
And in that city through a forked November
Love, like a Catherine-wheel, delighted me
And when it sputtered out, hung charred and sombre,
The city flavoured my delicious misery.
And so I guess that any landscape"s beauty
Is fathered by associative joys
Held in a shared, historic memory,
For beauty is the shape of our desires.
My northern city, then, by many called
Ugly or worse, much like an aged nurse
Tender yet stern who taught one how to walk,
Is dear to me, and it will always have
A desolate enchantment that I"ll love.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
There’s a constant rumble
To the pounding beat
Of the people’s hearts
As the rhythm of the street.
There's a constant rhythm
In the rolling of their feet.
There’s a constant thunder
To the dancing on the street.
There’s a roaring tide
In the people that I meet.
There’s a constant tremble
Of marching on the street.
There’s a blast of soul
Of the music on the street.
There’s a newborn rhythm
Of humanities' heat.
It’s the constant shouting,
And the constant heat,
It’s life’s own anthem
In the raging of the street.
There’s a constant rumble
Of people’s rolling feet.
There’s a constant thumping
Of the streets' heart beat.
There’s a new soul’s rhythm
Of the angles and the heat
Of the people and the buildings
Being the rhythm of the street.
It’s an ancient hold,
It’s a new world beat.
It’s the never-ending rhythm
Of the singing of the street.
1
I understand the boredom of the clerks
fatigue shifting like dunes within their eyes
a frightful nausea gumming up the works
that once was thought aggression in disguise.
Do you remember? then how lightly dead
seemed the moon when over factories
it languid slid like a barrage of lead
above the heart, the fierce inventories
of desire. Now women wander our dreams
carrying money and to our sleep's shame
our hands twitch not for swift blood-sunk triremes
nor languorous white horses nor ill fame,
but clutch the groin that clouds a pallid sky
where tow'rs are sinking in their common eye.
2
My ship is flung upon the gutter's wrist
and cries for help of storm to violate
that flesh your curiosity too late
has flushed. The stem your garter tongue would twist
has sunk upon the waveless bosom's mist,
thigh of the city, apparition, hate,
and the tower whose doves have, delicate,
fled into my blood where they are not kissed.
You have left me to the sewer's meanwhile,
and I have answered the sea's open wish
to love me as a bonfire's watchful hand
guards red the shore and guards the hairy strand,
our most elegant lascivious bile,
my ship sinking beneath the gutter's fish.
3
How can I then, my dearest winter lay,
disgorge the tasty worm that eats me up
falling onto the stem of a highway
whose ardent rainbow is the spoon's flat cup
and in the vilest of blue suited force
enamored of the heated needle's arm
finds the ministrant an own tongue's remorse
so near the blood and still so far from harm,
thus to be eaten up and gobbled down
volcanoes of speedometers, the strike
that heats the iris into flame and flow'rs
the panting chalice so a turning pike:
you are not how the gods refused to die,
and I am scarred forever neath the eye.
4
What are my eyes? if they must feed me, rank
with forgetting, in the jealous forest
of lustrous blows, so luminously blank
through smoke and in the light. All faint, at rest,
yet I am racing towards the fear that kills
them off, friends and lovers, hast'ning through tears
like alcohol high in the throat of hills
and hills of night, alluring! their black cheers
falling upon my ears like nails. And there
the bars grow thick with onanists and camps
and bivouacs of bears with clubs, are fair
with their blows, deal death beneath purple lamps
and to me! I run! closer always move,
crying my name in fields of dead I love.
5
I plunge deep within this frozen lake
whose mirrored fastnesses fill up my heart,
where tears drift from frivolity to art
all white and slobbering, and by mistake
are the sky. I'm no whale to cruise apart
in fields impassive of my stench, my sake,
my sign to crushing seas that fall like fake
pillars to crash! to sow as wake my heart
and don't be niggardly. The snow drifts low
and yet neglects to cover me, and I
dance just ahead to keep my heart in sight.
How like a queen, to seek with jealous eye
the face that flees you, hidden city, white
swan. There's no art to free me, blinded so.
Careful Observers may fortel the Hour
(By sure Prognosticks) when to dread a Show'r:
While Rain depends, the pensive Cat gives o'er
Her Frolicks, and pursues her Tail no more.
Returning Home at Night, you'll find the Sink
Strike your offended Sense with double Stink.
If you be wise, then go not far to Dine,
You spend in Coach-hire more than save in Wine.
A coming Show'r your shooting Corns presage,
Old Aches throb, your hollow Tooth will rage.
Sauntring in Coffee-house is Dulman seen;
He damns the Climate, and complains of Spleen.
Mean while the South rising with dabbled Wings,
A Sable Cloud a-thwart the Welkin flings,
That swill'd more Liquor than it could contain,
And like a Drunkard gives it up again.
Brisk Susan whips her Linen from the Rope,
While the first drizzling Show'r is born aslope,
Such is that Sprinkling which some careless Quean
Flirts on you from her Mop, but not so clean.
You fly, invoke the Gods; then turning, stop
To rail; she singing, still whirls on her Mop.
Not yet, the Dust had shun'd th'unequal Strife,
But aided by the Wind, fought still for Life;
And wafted with its Foe by violent Gust,
'Twas doubtful which was Rain, and which was Dust.
Ah! where must needy Poet seek for Aid,
When Dust and Rain at once his Coat invade;
Sole Coat, where Dust cemented by the Rain,
Erects the Nap, and leaves a cloudy Stain.
Now in contiguous Drops the Flood comes down,
Threat'ning with Deloge this Devoted Town.
To Shops in Crouds the dagled Females fly,
Pretend to cheapen Goods, but nothing buy.
The Templer spruce, while ev'ry Spout's a-broach,
Stays till 'tis fair, yet seems to call a Coach.
The tuck'd-up Sempstress walks with hasty Strides,
While Streams run down her oil'd Umbrella's Sides.
Here various Kinds by various Fortunes led,
Commence Acquaintance underneath a Shed.
Triumphant Tories, and desponding Whigs,
Forget their Fewds, and join to save their Wigs.
Box'd in a Chair the Beau impatient sits,
While Spouts run clatt'ring o'er the Roof by Fits;
And ever and anon with frightful Din
The Leather sounds, he trembles from within.
So when Troy Chair-men bore the Wooden Steed,
Pregnant with Greeks, impatient to be freed,
(Those Bully Greeks, who, as the Moderns do,
Instead of paying Chair-men, run them thro'.)
Laoco'n struck the Outside with his Spear,
And each imprison'd Hero quak'd for Fear.
Now from all Parts the swelling Kennels flow,
And bear their Trophies with them as they go:
Filth of all Hues and Odours seem to tell
What Streets they sail'd from, by the Sight and Smell.
They, as each Torrent drives, with rapid Force
From Smithfield, or St.Pulchre's shape their Course,
And in huge Confluent join at Snow-Hill Ridge,
Fall from the Conduit prone to Holborn-Bridge.
Sweepings from Butchers Stalls, Dung, Guts, and Blood,
Drown'd Puppies, stinking Sprats, all drench'd in Mud,
Dead Cats and Turnips-Tops come tumbling down the Flood.
I stand upon a hill and see
A luminous country under me,
Through which at two the drunk sailor must weave;
The transient's pause, the sailor's leave.
I notice, looking down the hill,
Arms braced upon a window sill;
And on the web of fire escapes
Move the potential, the grey shapes.
I hold the city here, complete;
And every shape defined by light
Is mine, or corresponds to mine,
Some flickering or some steady shine.
This map is ground of my delight.
Between the limits, night by night,
I watch a malady's advance,
I recognize my love of chance.
By the recurrent lights I see
Endless potentiality,
The crowded, broken, and unfinished!
I would not have the risk diminished.
Crash, smash a flying bottle
Enters my back yard at full throttle
I missed the little blighters which is more than a pity
But thats just simple run of the mill when you live in ASBO City
The party starts at twelve a.m. the music plays til three
I wouldnt really mind so much
But THE WOMBLES aint for me!
Up pulls a local taxi van
Intoxicated youths on board
They've hopped over next doors garden gate
Coz the fare they cant afford
The impatient taxi driver rings on the neighbours bell
Until he finally realises a rat he starts to smell
'Hey mate' he says 'I dont suppose'
'You've nine unruley sons'
'They owe me ten quid taxi fare and have left their bag of guns'
'I'll sue the little buggers if my boss gives me the boot
And what the hell am I meant to do, with their bloody bag of loot'! !
Already I am no longer looked at with lechery or love.
My daughters and sons have put me away with marbles and dolls,
Are gone from the house.
My husband and lovers are pleasant or somewhat polite
And night is night.
It is a real chill out,
The genuine thing.
I am not deceived, I do not think it is still summer
Because sun stays and birds continue to sing.
It is summer-gone that I see, it is summer-gone.
The sweet flowers indrying and dying down,
The grasses forgetting their blaze and consenting to brown.
It is a real chill out. The fall crisp comes
I am aware there is winter to heed.
There is no warm house
That is fitted with my need.
I am cold in this cold house this house
Whose washed echoes are tremulous down lost halls.
I am a woman, and dusty, standing among new affairs.
I am a woman who hurries through her prayers.
Tin intimations of a quiet core to be my
Desert and my dear relief
Come: there shall be such islanding from grief,
And small communion with the master shore.
Twang they. And I incline this ear to tin,
Consult a dual dilemma. Whether to dry
In humming pallor or to leap and die.
Somebody muffed it?? Somebody wanted to joke.
I am really shocked to behold the pink city
Blood when flows near by  the green field
From the ill fatted souls of their mother’s womb
Tear when turns red eyes yet steeped in sorrows
Serial blast such brutal act against humanity
in this maddened world by this mankind
fire when burns the love in men innocent
peace and care when waned by evil insane
should we still  call them homosapiens, perhaps no
unwanted rogues resourced by their own ill design
society still seems wild by the doings of paranoia
yet we call upon justice knocking the door of divine
barbarism still plays  by the laughter of wickedness
slanting across the door of terrorism when befuddled
as when wrought by the minds of ill born dunderheads
can we not classify them in between man and killer giant
still they seem to be more severe and wild by the death
even more dangerous than wild and insane of the jungles
the crown when worn by the heinous world of terrorism
the cruelty has already infiltrated to our blood
yet not the last massacre of trade centre or else where
that has not yet been blotted out from our mind,
still we remember that horrific moments by the death
the process of annihilation when starts
sun may disappear from east or west
man when counts his age by the void in darkness
heart still bleats and blurs  by the hope against hope
and we condemns this domestic terrorism by monsters
God might be feeling pity for those Frankenstein
who never think of their own grave.hanging on their heads
I sill remember the inch cape rock against the storm
Ralf the Rover when embraced the deadly death
I still pray God never allows these heartless worms
to be here again or to grow some where on this earth,
lest the tears may not fall again in the furrows of remorse and sorrows
Beautiful city
Beautiful city, the centre and crater of European confusion,
O you with your passionate shriek for the rights of an equal
humanity,
How often your Re-volution has proven but E-volution
Roll’d again back on itself in the tides of a civic insanity!
I have read, in some old, marvellous tale,
Some legend strange and vague,
That a midnight host of spectres pale
Beleaguered the walls of Prague.
Beside the Moldau's rushing stream,
With the wan moon overhead,
There stood, as in an awful dream,
The army of the dead.
White as a sea-fog, landward bound,
The spectral camp was seen,
And, with a sorrowful, deep sound,
The river flowed between.
No other voice nor sound was there,
No drum, nor sentry's pace;
The mist-like banners clasped the air,
As clouds with clouds embrace.
But when the old cathedral bell
Proclaimed the morning prayer,
The white pavilions rose and fell
On the alarmed air.
Down the broad valley fast and far
The troubled army fled;
Up rose the glorious morning star,
The ghastly host was dead.
I have read, in the marvellous heart of man,
That strange and mystic scroll,
That an army of phantoms vast and wan
Beleaguer the human soul.
Encamped beside Life's rushing stream,
In Fancy's misty light,
Gigantic shapes and shadows gleam
Portentous through the night.
Upon its midnight battle-ground
The spectral camp is seen,
And, with a sorrowful, deep sound,
Flows the River of Life between.
No other voice nor sound is there,
In the army of the grave;
No other challenge breaks the air,
But the rushing of Life's wave.
And when the solemn and deep churchbell
Entreats the soul to pray,
The midnight phantoms feel the spell,
The shadows sweep away.
Down the broad Vale of Tears afar
The spectral camp is fled;
Faith shineth as a morning star,
Our ghastly fears are dead.
T-day paper,
Little color bits fuel
A hunger never filled
Something precious dies.
Preface
Perhaps this is my task in life
To filter things that touch a soul
And to hold the strains till a pen can mold
Feeling into form.
What are you able to build with your blocks?
Castles and palaces, temples and docks.
Rain may keep raining, and others go roam,
But I can be happy and building at home.
Let the sofa be mountains, the carpet be sea,
There I'll establish a city for me:
A kirk and a mill and a palace beside,
And a harbor as well where my vessels may ride.
Great is the palace with pillar and wall,
A sort of a tower on top of it all,
And steps coming down in an orderly way
To where my toy vessels lie safe in the bay.
This one is sailing and that one is moored:
Hark to the song of the sailors on board!
And see on the steps of my palace, the kings
Coming and going with presents and things!
In back streets dark, cold and wet
Forgotten figures in corners slept
Ragged figures of human debris
Regrets and rats for company
Cardboard city land of the lost
Afraid of the living, in fear of the frost
Surviving on wits a day at a time
Circumstance their only crime
If fate decreed that they should die
In passing without a single cry
Alone for company only fear
Who alone would shed a tear?
There by fate, and not by choice
Souls in torment, with common voice
Drunks and addicts, so absurd
Vanish daily, their pleas unheard
So spare a thought as you sit to dine
Gulp your beer, or sip your wine
Things taken for granted, as we often do
But for the grace of God, it could be you.
City-bus is crawling one zone to another
Someone is recalling somebody silently
Entering into the dustless cool mall
I may dare to tell all the senior ladies love
May open the cellular phone.
Yellow champak smelling the teen-age
Passerby may suffer from unknown blunder
It's really an untold epic
Somebody feels someone
I may redesign my attributes
May write some lines on the corpuscles.
City-bus is entering into the yesterdays
Yellow neon-evening is moving from tomorrows
I may fall down to the stoppage
May kiss the air might touch your lips someday.
City-bus can't cross the globe
Can't find your cyber destination!
Poem 05
Book 'Beckoning Jade-Dreams' April 2007
Copyright Musharrat Mahjabeen
Mizan Publishers, Dhaka, Bangladesh
ISBN 984-8700-82-X
On my desk, a set of labels
or a synopsis of leeks,
blanched by the sun
and trailing their roots
like a watering can.
Beyond and below,
diminished by distance,
a taxi shivers at the lights:
a shining moorhen
with an orange nodule
set over the beak,
taking a passenger
under its wing.
I turn away, confront
the cuckold hatstand
at bay in the corner,
and eavesdrop (bless you!)
on a hay-fever of brakes.
My Caran d'Ache are sharp
as the tips of an iris
and the four-tier file
is spotted with rust:
a study of plaice
by a Japanese master,
ochres exquisitely bled.
Instead of office work,
I fish for complements
and sport a pencil
behind each ear,
a bit of a devil,
or trap the telephone
awkwardly under my chin
like Richard Crookback,
crying, A horse! A horse!
My kingdom for a horse!
but only to myself,
ironically: the tube
is semi-stiff with stallion whangs,
the chairman's Mercedes
has windscreen wipers
like a bird's broken tongue,
and I am perfectly happy
to see your head, quick
round the door like a dryad,
as I pretend to be Ovid
in exile, composing Tristia
and sad for the shining,
the missed, the muscular beach.
Once, there was a girl,
She lived in the city.
She is precious like a pearl,
She grew up to be smart and witty.
She was always happy,
She was sometimes, sad.
She was always laughing,
Her laugh was bad. XD
She loves to study,
She loves to write.
She loved to dress oddly,
She loved to dress in white.
These are some of the things,
The things about her I can see.
Of course, I can see them,
Cause this girl is me.
Night is lively.
Night is stunning
Night is pleasurable.
Night is sugary like apple pie.
Night is walking towards with hobo.
Night will never end.
Night is dark.
Night is now simple, sweet, calm, amusing.
I am in love with this city night.
City is covered with this pleasant night.
Night is having the shine of city.
Night is getting wilder.
Night is getting cruel.
Time will never stop running.
Night will over with the time.
Another night will come in this city.
I am waiting for the night.
Here city shed tears
Here city chuckle like a little kid.
Here city dance with the mysterious wind.
I am in love with this city night.
Night never stops coming.
Night will never break its rule.
It will come over and over in this cold blooded city.
But I will never stop loving this city night.
Night is resting.
It will come again into my little black book.
Imprisoned in squalor, like a rat in a cage
A hopeless ignition explodes into rage
Poverty's chains cut with mocking intent
Desensitized humans with anger to vent
To offer a dream, but a nightmare provide
To build up hope then strip away pride
To trample the weak into the dust
Is to set a foundation for greed and lust
The rat is a fighter, the worm always turns
Where once there was apathy, pride now returns
The lesser will rise with fear as their friend
From the sewer of life you can only ascend
To offer no dream, and nowhere to run
To Build up hope in the form of a gun
To trample the good and the decent within
Is to set up a struggle that no one can win
Man is a lover and killer entwined
To be an extreme is to conquer the blind
Where one man falls another now stands
Ready for death with blood on his hands
Music is like a city
The genres are the suburbs
The bands, the streets
The albums, the buildings
And the songs, the apartments
The streets get inspiration from other streets
They duplicate then alter them slightly.
The city is very busy and there are always
People driving through looking and listening
The city is growing every day.
The suburbs larger and larger
And some join together.
The streets longer and longer
And some old and tattered.
The building will always stay the same
But they will always be new.
The city will always keep growing
As the music goes on.
CITY of orgies, walks and joys!
City whom that I have lived and sung in your midst will one day make
you illustrious,
Not the pageants of you--not your shifting tableaux, your spectacles,
repay me;
Not the interminable rows of your houses--nor the ships at the
wharves,
Nor the processions in the streets, nor the bright windows, with
goods in them;
Nor to converse with learn'd persons, or bear my share in the soiree
or feast;
Not those--but, as I pass, O Manhattan! your frequent and swift flash
of eyes offering me love,
Offering response to my own--these repay me;
Lovers, continual lovers, only repay me.
CITY of ships!
(O the black ships! O the fierce ships!
O the beautiful, sharp-bow'd steam-ships and sail-ships!)
City of the world! (for all races are here;
All the lands of the earth make contributions here;)
City of the sea! city of hurried and glittering tides!
City whose gleeful tides continually rush or recede, whirling in and
out, with eddies and foam!
City of wharves and stores! city of tall façades of marble and iron!
Proud and passionate city! mettlesome, mad, extravagant city!
Spring up, O city! not for peace alone, but be indeed yourself,
warlike!                                                     10
Fear not! submit to no models but your own, O city!
Behold me! incarnate me, as I have incarnated you!
I have rejected nothing you offer'd me--whom you adopted, I have
adopted;
Good or bad, I never question you--I love all--I do not condemn
anything;
I chant and celebrate all that is yours--yet peace no more;
In peace I chanted peace, but now the drum of war is mine;
War, red war, is my song through your streets, O city!
WHO KNOW LONDON
CITY OF  IMMORTAL HISTORY
CITY ON THE MID SEA CAN`T
FALL IN    A LOVELY AUTUMN
LIKE LURID  BEAUTY
the delphian rock
UNDER FULL MOON
OF DECEMBER
WAEL MOREICHEH
This new software is great.
I have the power to remove
homeless people by clicking
on the shopping cart icon.
I can remove intrusive new
mega-developments by clicking on
that pile of developer’s money on
the mayor’s desk.
And look: You can give the crooks
in jail the punishment they deserve
by clicking on the torch-wielding mob.
You may be wondering what happened
to that homeless lady I removed. Don’t
worry, I didn’t kill her. I simply removed
her. And the mayor’s payola? I didn’t
take it for myself. It’s just gone. Poof!
And that rapist? Don’t cry for him, he’s
getting what he deserves.
You could at least thank me for all my
good Works instead of blah blah orwell
and blah blah brave new world. As
long as you stay out of trouble, you
have nothing to worry about.
City
Plastic flowers
Lipstick lovers
Replica races,
Lip service glitters!
City is a ‘concrete’ jungle
Where mass will not mingle!
City is so selfish
you will be like fish without water
City always runs for money
Never finds time to enjoy nature’s honey
City fixes price on every thing
Crux is to make profit on every thing.
City is cultural interference
City’s life is social indifference
It’s pity
Village trying to imitate city
This is my final inference
Roof-tops, roof-tops, what do you cover?
Sad folk, bad folk, and many a glowing lover;
Wise people, simple people, children of despair --
Roof-tops, roof-tops, hiding pain and care.
Roof-tops, roof-tops, O what sin you're knowing,
While above you in the sky the white clouds are blowing;
While beneath you, agony and dolor and grim strife
Fight the olden battle, the olden war of Life.
Roof-tops, roof-tops, cover up their shame --
Wretched souls, prisoned souls too piteous to name;
Man himself hath built you all to hide away the stars --
Roof-tops, roof-tops, you hide ten million scars.
Roof-tops, roof-tops, well I know you cover
Many solemn tragedies and many a lonely lover;
But ah, you hide the good that lives in the throbbing city --
Patient wives, and tenderness, forgiveness, faith, and pity.
Roof-tops, roof-tops, this is what I wonder:
You are thick as poisonous plants, thick the people under;
Yet roofless, and homeless, and shelterless they roam,
The driftwood of the town who have no roof-top and no home!
The gaudy glow of neon lights
dispels the darkness of the nights
on city streets.
They pop and fizzle noisily
creating a cacophony
on city streets.
The sober folks walk warily
and drunks stagger uncaringly
on city streets.
The ladies of the night parade
for there is money to be made
on city streets.
Drug dealers ready to retreat
if they should hear a  coppers feet
on city streets.
The night shift workers wend their way
towards their work to start their day
on city streets.
The noisy revellers thin out
as one by one the signs go out
on city streets.
The gradually noises abate
and ghostly shadow congregate
on city streets.
For some few hours peace will reign
before the noise will start again
on city streets.
The early morning traffic sounds
start with the milkmen on their rounds
on city streets.
This builds up to an angry roar
as cars and lorries inward pour
on city streets
then when at last rush hour has passed
noise levels will subside at last
on city streets
I thank the lord that I am free
to leave this noise far behind me
on city streets.
I walked my beat the whole night
through exactly as I’m paid to do
on city streets.
I choose to live outside the town
where constant noise won’t get me down
on city streets.
My village is a quiet place
A haven where I need not face
the noisy streets.
8-Jun-07
poeticpiers
In the sky there is nobody asleep. Nobody, nobody.
Nobody is asleep.
The creatures of the moon sniff and prowl about their cabins.
The living iguanas will come and bite the men who do not dream,
and the man who rushes out with his spirit broken will meet on the
street corner
the unbelievable alligator quiet beneath the tender protest of the
stars.
Nobody is asleep on earth. Nobody, nobody.
Nobody is asleep.
In a graveyard far off there is a corpse
who has moaned for three years
because of a dry countryside on his knee;
and that boy they buried this morning cried so much
it was necessary to call out the dogs to keep him quiet.
Life is not a dream. Careful! Careful! Careful!
We fall down the stairs in order to eat the moist earth
or we climb to the knife edge of the snow with the voices of the dead
dahlias.
But forgetfulness does not exist, dreams do not exist;
flesh exists. Kisses tie our mouths
in a thicket of new veins,
and whoever his pain pains will feel that pain forever
and whoever is afraid of death will carry it on his shoulders.
One day
the horses will live in the saloons
and the enraged ants
will throw themselves on the yellow skies that take refuge in the
eyes of cows.
Another day
we will watch the preserved butterflies rise from the dead
and still walking through a country of gray sponges and silent boats
we will watch our ring flash and roses spring from our tongue.
Careful! Be careful! Be careful!
The men who still have marks of the claw and the thunderstorm,
and that boy who cries because he has never heard of the invention
of the bridge,
or that dead man who possesses now only his head and a shoe,
we must carry them to the wall where the iguanas and the snakes
are waiting,
where the bear's teeth are waiting,
where the mummified hand of the boy is waiting,
and the hair of the camel stands on end with a violent blue shudder.
Nobody is sleeping in the sky. Nobody, nobody.
Nobody is sleeping.
If someone does close his eyes,
a whip, boys, a whip!
Let there be a landscape of open eyes
and bitter wounds on fire.
No one is sleeping in this world. No one, no one.
I have said it before.
No one is sleeping.
But if someone grows too much moss on his temples during the
night,
open the stage trapdoors so he can see in the moonlight
the lying goblets, and the poison, and the skull of the theaters.
The trees along this city street,
Save for the traffic and the trains,
Would make a sound as thin and sweet
As trees in country lanes.
And people standing in their shade
Out of a shower, undoubtedly
Would hear such music as is made
Upon a country tree.
Oh, little leaves that are so dumb
Against the shrieking city air,
I watch you when the wind has come,—
I know what sound is there.
I
As the blind Milton's memory of light,
The deaf Beethoven's phantasy of tone,
Wroght joys for them surpassing all things known
In our restricted sphere of sound and sight,--
So while the glaring streets of brick and stone
Vix with heat, noise, and dust from morn till night,
I will give rein to Fancy, taking flight
From dismal now and here, and dwell alone
With new-enfranchised senses. All day long,
Think ye 't is I, who sit 'twixt darkened walls,
While ye chase beauty over land and sea?
Uplift on wings of some rare poet's song
Where the wide billow laughs and leaps and falls,
I soar cloud-high, free as the winds are free.
II
Who grasps the substance? who 'mid shadows strays?
He who within some dark-bright wood reclines,
'Twixt sleep and waking, where the needled pines
Have cushioned al his couch with soft brown sprays?
He notes not how the living water shines,
Trembling along the cliff, a flickering haze,
Brimming a wine-bright pool, nor lifts his gaze
To read the ancient wonders and the signs.
Does he possess the actual, or do I,
Who paint on air more than his sense receives,
The glittering pine-tufts with closed eyes behold,
Breathe the strong resinous perfume, see the sky
Quiver like azure flame between the leaves,
And open unseen gates with key of gold?
There's no green nor any blue
No sea nor a hill of hue
Our eyes gain no tranquil glory
Finding there no prairie
A street of houses
A road of pits and manholes
Departmentally concaved
By chasing vehicles goaded-
Doddering, tottering, walk-smitten
As per the doctor's advice driven
Bathing in sweat and dust
Panting laboriously but adjusting to ingest
People of sixty plus quality
Walking along with hoofing activity
Under the sun up once down once
Fitness oohing amid the dissonance, smogginess....
Oh Dhanvantri, God of health!
Born on earth, grown to aged stealth
You too do this city 'go-go'?
COME, here is adieu to the city
And hurrah for the country again.
The broad road lies before me
Watered with last night's rain.
The timbered country woos me
With many a high and bough;
And again in the shining fallows
The ploughman follows the plough.
The whole year's sweat and study,
And the whole year's sowing time,
Comes now to the perfect harvest,
And ripens now into rhyme.
For we that sow in the Autumn,
We reap our grain in the Spring,
And we that go sowing and weeping
Return to reap and sing.
Like a long arrow through the dark the train is darting,
Bearing me far away, after a perfect day of love's delight:
Wakeful with all the sad-sweet memories of parting,
I lift the narrow window-shade and look out on the night.
Lonely the land unknown, and like a river flowing,
Forest and field and hill are gliding backward still athwart my dream;
Till in that country strange, and ever stranger growing,
A magic city full of lights begins to glow and gleam.
Wide through the landscape dim the lamps are lit in millions;
Long avenues unfold clear-shining lines of gold across the green;
Clusters and rings of light, and luminous pavilions, --
Oh, who will tell the city's name, and what these wonders mean?
Why do they beckon me, and what have they to show me?
Crowds in the blazing street, mirth where the feasters meet, kisses and wine:
Many to laugh with me, but never one to know me:
A cityful of stranger-hearts and none to beat with mine!
Look how the glittering lines are wavering and lifting, --
Softly the breeze of night, scatters the vision bright: and, passing fair,
Over the meadow-grass and through the forest drifting,
The Fire-Fly City of the Dark is lost in empty air!
Girl of the golden eyes, to you my heart is turning:
Sleep in your quiet room, while through the midnight gloom my train is whirled.
Clear in your dreams of me the light of love is burning, --
The only never failing light in all the phantom world.
Faraway city
Castles in the clouds and mist
Your dreams will come true
Harichandran had to leave
Ayodhya, once he gave
All his wealth to the Sage
To cool him from his rage
He gave up his throne,
Took his wife and son,
Moved out of the palace
To an unknown place.
Aloud the people wept,
Beating their faces, chests,
To show their distress,
As they were helpless.
The three went in bear foot,
On the route that was hot.
The people couldn’t bear it,
And felt very much hurt.
“The King was liberal
In giving charity to all.
Why a noble soul is driven
To this sad situation? ”
“The Sage is so merciless
Not even a small house
He gave to this family
To stay here comfortably.”
“Can we believe the Sage,
Who’s ever in a fit of rage,
That he’ll take care of us
In the King’s absence.”
Like this, people were talking,
As the three were walking,
With their heads down
To a destination unknown.
In the west the sun set,
As if it was quite upset
With their bear foot
Minding not its heat.
What all people said,
Secretly the Sage heard,
To know their reaction
On his cunning action.
Tears the ministers shed
When the King said,
“Here I’ll never return
To the land that is given.”
Openly some shouted out,
“We’ll throw the Sage out.
Oh King, we want you here.”
They said this with tears.
“How can a Sage handle
A spear in a battle?
As he cannot fight,
He’s fit to live in forest.”
From the hiding spot,
The Sage came out,
The King fell on his feet
With due humble respect.
The Sage said, “I’ll give
Back what all you gave.
If you don’t take them
You’ll cause me harm.”
He replied, “Once given,
The kingdom is not mine.
Oh Sage, I’ll never take,
Even if you give it back.”
For all the tricks played
The King never yielded.
Yet, the sage did his best
And continued his test.
The Sage said, “I doubt
How you’ll now treat
Your previous tall promise
Of help for my fire sacrifice? ”
The King fell at his feet
And said, “I’ll send it
Thro’ your messenger.
I’ll cheat you never.”
The Sage sent Sukran
Behind Harichandran,
To collect the dues
In the next few days.
He also told Sukran
“You take your commission
From this Harichandran
Besides the dues of mine.”
“If he fails within time
You just make him
Tell a lie, at least one,
And leave him then.”
Saying this, the Sage left.
The King made a request
To the guards and ministers,
“Don’t fail in your duties.”
“You serve the Sage well.
Take care of the people.
Now, go to your place
And live in peace.”
Tears Minister Sathyakeerthi shed.
With folded hands he said,
“Let me also come with you
And serve as I served you.”
Saying this, he fainted.
His loyalty, it showed.
The King felt for him
And agreed to take him.
Chandramathi shed tears
Before leaving the borders
Of the great Ayodhya City
While the people felt pity.
Their life became tough.
The paths were rough.
The heat of the desert
Scorched their bare foot.
On the way, rain or sun,
They had to run
For shelter in caves
Or under giant trees.
Sathyakeerthi carried the son
O’er his shoulders in the sun
When walking in desert
That burnt his tender foot.
Chandramathi refused
When the King offered
Just to carry her
O’er his shoulder.
She said, “It is a sin,
To cause you pain,
And when you suffer
Let me also suffer.”
Poisonous Cobras
Besides scorpions
Crossed their paths
Nights and days.
For Chandramathi,
It was so uneasy
To see them on the way
Almost every day.
River Gomathi, they crossed.
In the sands they rested.
Sathyakeerthi brought
Some fresh fruits to eat.
For the dues, Sukran asked.
To go further, he refused.
The King then promised
Soon, the dues would be paid.
Sathyakeerthi brought fruits
Which they all ate,
But Sukran did protest
That it wasn’t sufficient.
He said, “I don’t eat
Mere fruits and nuts,
I need regular food
The one nicely cooked.”
Harichandran said,
“No other good food
Except fruits and nuts
We can find in forests.”
“This now you take,
Please, for my sake,
When we reach the city
We’ll get food plenty.”
“I’ll see that you get
Cooked food to eat
Also the dues are paid.”
This much he assured.
The Sage Viswamithra sent
Fearful devils and ghosts
Just to terrorize them
Without killing them.
They moved on and on
Despite storm or rain,
Until they reached near
The holy Ganges River.
It gave them little pleasure,
To take bath in the river.
For rest, they went then
To a nice flower garden.
It was time for the sunset.
They stayed there for rest
And quiet that night went
With no unusual event.
The sound of tigers
Lions and elephants,
Disturbed not their sleep
As it was so deep.
Next day, Sukran said,
“Further tortures to avoid,
Better, take back your land
Forget your promise, friend.”
He tried to tempt the King,
Who was not yielding
To such temptations
As a man of principles.
They crossed the River Sona.
And then the River Yamuna.
Moving from place to place
Gave them tiresome experience.
Suddenly, the Sage appeared.
To the King, he said,
“Out of pity, I came here.
Yes, it’s too late never.”
“Say you didn’t give free
Any of your lands to me,
Then they become yours.
Be free from such ordeals.”
The King said, “Never I’ll say
Today or any other day,
Just to satisfy you, a lie
Despite troubles I may buy.”
“Such an act would mean,
Take back the alms given
From a beggar and then eat
Without shame or self-respect.”
“At least, marry my two girls
And go free from such ordeals.
You’ll then be happy
And make me also happy.”
He replied, “Desire on gold,
Land and maid is no good,
And it shall be, to anyone
Never on other’s compulsion.”
“Will anyone vomit
And then back eat it?
Such a disgusting act
It’ll be, back if I take it.”
The Sage said, “Twice
You must think, not once,
When you give alms,
To win or lose others.”
The King replied, “Throw me
In fire or into pieces cut me,
Still I’ll not take back again
What was once given.”
The hot sage shouted,
“For this, be prepared
To face further ordeals
And serious troubles.”
He thought of Sukran,
Who came there then.
He gave him instructions
To give them more pains.
He asked the Fire God
Around them to spread
And create more fear
Without going near.
Fire God replied,
“I’m so afraid
Of Chandramathi
For her chastity.”
“Yet, I must obey you,
To avoid curse from you, ”
Near them fire came
But didn’t burn them.
When asked, Sukran said,
“Fire will not subside
Until a royal body it eats
This is what I forecast.”
The minister offered first,
The king offered second,
The mother came third,
And the son, as the last.
But the fire didn’t go near,
As it had its own fear
Against the heat of chastity,
That came from Chandramathi.
With all their anxiety,
They reached Kasi City,
Where they could find
A new life of some kind.
Kasi was a well known city,
Noted for its culture and beauty.
The bees hummed in the fields.
Honey flowed from flowers.
Hearing the songs of parrots
The trees gave their fruits.
The plants in the gardens
In the air, shook their heads.
The faces, hands, legs, of girls
Resembled more like lotus,
Their mouths, like lilies,
With their blue-lily eyes.
Circling o’er them, the bees
Mistook them all for lotus,
They added more beauty
To this beautiful city.
For the dues outstanding,
Sukran was after the King.
How to settle the same?
And that too in short time?
The King told Sathyakeerthi
“In the market, sell me
And pay Sukran the dues.
Now, I’ve no other clues.”
The minister said like this:
“Sell me and pay the dues.
How can I sell my master?
You’re more like my mother.”
The King said, “I should suffer,
As that was the Sage’s desire.”
He appreciated the minister
And rejected his offer.
In Viswanath temple, they prayed.
Then in an inn, they stayed.
Chandramathi cooked food.
Sumptuous food everyone had.
Sukran was so vehement
He insisted on the payment.
Of dues, the same day
With no further delay.
He had nothing to pay
On the very same day,
And helpless he was
To settle the dues.
Chandramathi said then,
“Sell me with my son,
For a reasonable sum
And this day, pay him.”
He said, “Oh God,
How can I sell my kid
With his dear mother?
I’ll do this never.”
“For a king, duty is first,
And his love comes next.
It’s the fate that rules us.”
She consoled him like this.
Tears rolled in his eyes,
When for a fair price,
He tried to sell them,
Cursing his bad time.
As none could afford,
No one came forward
To buy mother and kid,
For such a heavy bid.
Though the price was high,
A Brahmin came to buy.
He paid the fixed sum
To his house took them.
Before leaving she cried,
Devadasan cried aloud.
Harichandran swooned
When they both departed.
To pacify, the minister tried,
But still the king cried,
Sukran got the full amount,
But demanded his payment.
After a long persuasion
Minister took Harichandran
To the market place near
And waited for a buyer.
One Veeravagu by name,
To buy him, he came.
He wanted a servant
In his own burning ghat.
Minister sold Harichandran
For ten thousand gold coins.
Veeravagu posted him to the ghat
Where dead bodies were burnt.
Sukran got his payment.
To meet the sage he went.
The King turned servant
To the burning ghat went.
His wage was, mouthful-rice
That came with dead bodies
For him to cook and eat
After burning the bodies out.
The cloth covering the dead
With a quarter piece of gold
Was taken by his master,
As the burning ghat owner.
.
A great king of the past
Later became a servant.
What was its root cause?
It was the Sage’s curse.
What a pathetic scene
To see this king, the one
Reduced to a menial state?
Was it due to his “Fate”?
We have a small sculpture of Henry James on our terrace in New York City.
Nothing would surprise him.
The beast in the jungle was what he saw--
Edith Wharton's obfuscating older brother. . .
He fled the demons
of Manhattan
for fear they would devour
his inner ones
(the ones who wrote the books)
& silence the stifled screams
of his protagonists.
To Europe
like a wandering Jew--
WASP that he was--
but with the Jew's
outsider's hunger. . .
face pressed up
to the glass of sex
refusing every passion
but the passion to write
the words grew
more & more complex
& convoluted
until they utterly imprisoned him
in their fairytale brambles.
Language for me
is meant to be
a transparency,
clear water gleaming
under a covered bridge. . .
I love his spiritual sister
because she snatched clarity
from her murky history.
Tormented New Yorkers both,
but she journeyed
to the heart of light--
did he?
She took her friends on one last voyage,
through the isles of Greece
on a yacht chartered with her royalties--
a rich girl proud to be making her own money.
The light of the Middle Sea
was what she sought.
All denizens
of this demonic city caught
between pitch and black
long for the light.
But she found it
in a few of her books. . .
while Henry James
discovered
what he had probably
started with:
that beast, that jungle,
that solipsistic scream.
He did not join her
on that final cruise.
(He was on his own final cruise).
Did he want to?
I would wager yes.
I look back with love and sorrow
at them both--
dear teachers--
but she shines like Miss Liberty
to Emma Lazarus' hordes,
while he gazes within,
always, at his own
impenetrable jungle.
Not in the solitude
Alone may man commune with heaven, or see
Only in savage wood
And sunny vale, the present Deity;
Or only hear his voice
Where the winds whisper and the waves rejoice.
Even here do I behold
Thy steps, Almighty!--here, amidst the crowd,
Through the great city rolled,
With everlasting murmur deep and loud--
Choking the ways that wind
'Mongst the proud piles, the work of humankind.
Thy golden sunshine comes
From the round heaven, and on their dwellings lies,
And lights their inner homes;
For them thou fill'st with air the unbounded skies,
And givest them the stores
Of ocean, and the harvests of its shores.
Thy spirit is around,
Quickening the restless mass that sweeps along;
And this eternal sound--
Voices and footfalls of the numberless throng--
Like the resounding sea,
Or like the rainy tempest, speaks of thee.
And when the hours of rest
Come, like a calm upon the mid-sea brine,
Hushing its billowy breast--
The quiet of that moment too is thine;
It breathes of him who keeps
The vast and helpless city while it sleeps.
How strange that here is nothing as it was!
The sward is young and new,
The sod there shapes a different mass,
The random trees stand other than I knew.
No, here the Past has left no residue,
No aftermath!
By a new path
The workmen homeward in the city twilight pass.
Yet was this willow here.
It hung as now its olive skeins aloft
Into the sky, then blue and clear,--
And yonder pair of poplar trees
Rose also, soft
And sibilant in the glory of the breeze.
It's early dark. One scarce distinguishes
Their sullen feathering in the autumn sky.
'Tis warm and still.
Dull o'er the town the vapours lie.
Innumerable
And dodging the uncertain stare,
The small, shrewd lampions dot the air.
Many like me
Loiter perhaps as I in after years,
As looking here to see
Some vestige of the living that was theirs,
Some trace of yesterday,
Somae hint or remnant, echo, clue--some thing,
Some very little thing of what was they.
Sure such are near! Else were it not so still
This evening,
So human-still and warm and kind.
'Tis as of many moved
In unison of will and mind to sing
Low litanies to that which they had wholly loved.
How sweet it is
Under the perishable trees
To hear the wings of the one human soul
Fluttering up
In Time's dark branches to the lucid stars.
More than Despair is Hope,
And more than Hope is the Hope that despairs,
And more than all
Is Love that disbelieves the real years.
Here in this place
One August morning--when the earlier crowd,
Showmen or populace,
From many a region and of curious face,
Abroad the holiday
Quaint in the sun with garb and gesture glowed,
And, speaking grave or gay
The various accent of their lonely race,
Between the shadowy gold bazars idled away--
She, as a cloud
All sunrise-coloured and alone,
Thro' the blue summer tremblin came to me.
I dried her tears and here we sat us down.
Little by little, as tripping oversea
On flame-tipped waves the daylight's long surprise
Sweeps world and heaven in one,
So love across our eyes
Broke with the sun.
Happy we walked away. The fairy sight
Untangling shook a thousand chequered fires.
Low under scarlet awnings rung on rung,
Copper and bronze and azurite,
Ranged on the sagging wires
The trifles clinked in the red light.
From beam and niche vendors in strange attires,
Slipping dark hands along,
Unhooked the quiet wool, the gaudy chintz,
Or, precious where it hung,
Long fluid jewels of auroral silk:
And dryly to the sense
Their attars old and dusty powders clung.
Still passed the weavers and the dyers
Many a jar, a bowl
Turned as of water or of milk--
Glazen and jade and porcelain--
Far down the shadows colouring stole.
As one had shook a jungle after rain
And basketing the drops at random spilled
Their red and green, their topaz and sapphires,
All were here piled.--
And wandering out we smiled
To see across the glowing noon so high,
So high and far,
The incandescent minarets and domes and spires
Lifting the fusion of the coloured choirs
To the sky
Softly--save only where
A flag or pennant fallen slack
Shotted the dazzling air.
I came to-day to find her, I came back
Humble with sweet desires
Across this dun September atmosphere
To her.
I came, I knew she was not here:
Now let me go.
I came, I come because I love her so.
Not in the acres of the Soul
Does Nature drive the ploughshare of her change.
It is not strange
That here in part and whole
The faithful eye sees all things as before.
For past the newer flowers,
Above the recent trees and clouds come o'er,
Love finds the other hours
Once more.
LONDON, thou art of townes A per se.
Soveraign of cities, seemliest in sight,
Of high renoun, riches and royaltie;
Of lordis, barons, and many a goodly knyght;
Of most delectable lusty ladies bright;
Of famous prelatis, in habitis clericall;
Of merchauntis full of substaunce and of myght:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Gladdith anon, thou lusty Troynovaunt,
Citie that some tyme cleped was New Troy;
In all the erth, imperiall as thou stant,
Pryncesse of townes, of pleasure and of joy,
A richer restith under no Christen roy;
For manly power, with craftis naturall,
Fourmeth none fairer sith the flode of Noy:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Gemme of all joy, jasper of jocunditie,
Most myghty carbuncle of vertue and valour;
Strong Troy in vigour and in strenuytie;
Of royall cities rose and geraflour;
Empress of townes, exalt in honour;
In beawtie beryng the crone imperiall;
Swete paradise precelling in pleasure;
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Above all ryvers thy Ryver hath renowne,
Whose beryall stremys, pleasaunt and preclare,
Under thy lusty wallys renneth down,
Where many a swan doth swymme with wyngis fair;
Where many a barge doth saile and row with are;
Where many a ship doth rest with top-royall.
O, towne of townes! patrone and not compare,
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Upon thy lusty Brigge of pylers white
Been merchauntis full royall to behold;
Upon thy stretis goeth many a semely knyght
In velvet gownes and in cheynes of gold.
By Julyus Cesar thy Tour founded of old
May be the hous of Mars victoryall,
Whose artillary with tonge may not be told:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Strong be thy wallis that about thee standis;
Wise be the people that within thee dwellis;
Fresh is thy ryver with his lusty strandis;
Blith be thy chirches, wele sownyng be thy bellis;
Rich be thy merchauntis in substaunce that excellis;
Fair be their wives, right lovesom, white and small;
Clere be thy virgyns, lusty under kellis:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Thy famous Maire, by pryncely governaunce,
With sword of justice thee ruleth prudently.
No Lord of Parys, Venyce, or Floraunce
In dignitye or honour goeth to hym nigh.
He is exampler, loode-ster, and guye;
Principall patrone and rose orygynalle,
Above all Maires as maister most worthy:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
In the city of sorrows
Is where we see so much
Racism
Against
Men and women
In the city of sorrows
There are so much injustice
Some have told me the city will ruin me
Some said the city is an ugly place
The city has marred better men than me
I hadn’t lived in the city for quite some time,
But living there again was an amazing experience
The city glowed with a dazzling beauty,
Pumping a vitality in my veins
Through my heart, an exuberant,
Youthful feeling of excitement
I let the city have my heart.
I thought the city gave me hers.
This love was not meant to last.
I had to leave the city for a little while.
The city couldn’t handle the distance,
Provoking the city to eject me from
The city’s heart, ripping and tearing
Until I was only a memory, a fling
So I left the city in search of a new life.
I found myself alone in the desert.
I convinced myself the city was only
A memory locked away
The days were sweltering and arduous,
The nights were frigid and excruciating
These times were spent alone, in silence
Where almost no life is sustainable,
And I ignored the ghosts which
Maliciously brought about vibrant,
Heartwarming thoughts of the city
I turned North, the city far passed
The horizon, though its glimmer
Reaches me still
Its lights do nothing but illuminate
The darkness this desert has
Brought into my heart
And the damage my lungs have
Sustained as they drown in my
Quiet tears
In this moment, I unleashed
An ugly, primal scream
From the depths of my marred soul,
The waves traveling through miles of
Nothingness
It was then when I realized
I still love the city.
But the city doesn’t love me.
Las Vegas, Las Vegas, the city of dreams,
The city of triumph and utter disaster.
For you can win and gain a most vast amount,
But you can also loose without a count.
I advise you my friend, to watch yourself
With the up most of care and thought.
Stay away from the one arm bandits
And be careful of the thieves and
Hustlers which rob you in vain.
Stroll the streets for a meal which is cheap,
But I am sure sure that the food will be
Cut back, for then you will have more money
To play Black Jack.
I know that you cannot resist the temptation
Of having a bit of a gamble, but in order
To not appear like a spanner, be sure
To place your wages in a casual manner.
I am sure that the gambling will carry on
Throughout the dead of night, and no
one will stop your addiction, not even
Your wife!
So you are flat-broke and you are on your
Flight home, at least you have enjoyed
your time, but remember my friend, Las
Vegas is an ultimate unknown; for
It is the city of triumph and utter
Disaster.
White King City I left at dawn
in the morning-glow of the clouds;
The thousand miles to Chiang-ling
we sailed in a single day.
On either shore the gibbons' chatter
sounded without pause
While my light boat skimmed past
ten thousand sombre crags.
You are my city
the gaudy glow of neon light
that dispels the darkness of the night
Enhailing this dust flying smells ands feels like home
the cloudy weather, the dim trees, the city looked like and open book.
with nature bringing a colourful beauty to ones heart
Alone i lay on a wooden raft
my breath is void of oxygen
my heart is scribbled without rythm
to the beautiful change made by ur smiling culture
The shimmers of the moon made the rest of the city glimmer
now its clear why ure a symbol of pride
The lullaby tunes of the mocking bird awakenes momments of passion
My head speaks and so does my heart
am lost in the beautiful city and for ever i want to be
Here, laughter is a pleasant sound
it spreads joy all around
flushing out every despairs of the heart
Just for this city
i will open my eyes and ask the creator for one more day
this are my praises 4 the city in u.
You are my city
The gaudy glow of neon light
that dispels the darkness of the night
Enhaling the smell of dust makes it feel like home
The cloudy weather, the dim trees, you look like an open book.
with nature bringing a colourful beauty to ones' heart
Alone i lay on a wooden raft
My breath is void of oxygen
My heart is scrambled without rythm
to the beautiful change made by ur smiling culture
The shimmers of the moon made the rest of the city glimmer
Now its clear why ure a symbol of pride
The lullaby tunes of the mocking bird awakens moments of passion
My head speaks and so does my heart
am lost in this beautiful city and for ever i want 2 b
Here, laughter is a pleasant sound
It spreads joy all around
flushing out every despair of the heart
Just for this city
i will open my eyes and ask the creator for one more day
one more day to discover the city in you and you in the city
let this be my praise of you, my beautiful city
SEE how the speckled sky burns like a pigeon's throat,
Jewelled with embers of opal and peridote.
See the white river that flashes and scintillates,
Curved like a tusk from the mouth of the city-gates.
Hark, from the minaret, how the muezzin's call
Floats like a battle-flag over the city wall.
From trellised balconies, languid and luminous
Faces gleam, veiled in a splendour voluminous.
Leisurely elephants wind through the winding lanes,
Swinging their silver bells hung from their silver chains.
Round the high Char Minar sounds of gay cavalcades
Blend with the music of cymbals and serenades.
Over the city bridge Night comes majestical,
Borne like a queen to a sumptuous festival.
The sluggish clouds hang low upon the town,
And from yon lamp in chilled and sodden rays
The feeble light gropes through the heavy mist
And dies, extinguished in the stagnant maze.
From moisty eaves the drops fall slowly down
To strike with leaden sound the walk below,
And in dark, murky pools upon the street
The water stands, as lacking life to flow.
With hopeless brain, oppressed and sad at heart,
Toil's careworn slave turns out his flickering light
And treads in dreams his dulling round again,
Where weary day succeeds to dismal night.
O CITY, look the Eastward way!
Beyond thy roofs of shadowy red and grey
Floats like a lily on the airy stream,
Radiant and vast, a cloud,
Around whose billowy head
Splendour from out the glooming West is shed
As if it were not ever to take flight,—
And on its edge of gleam
In the clear blue of waning afternoon,
Faint as a spirit slipping from the shroud,
Faint, and yet gathering light,
The Moon.
O city, dream and pray!
This is thy evensong at close of day.
We couldn’t believe what we were hearing
It just couldn’t be true we thought
How could anyone be this cruel?
We hoped they would quickly be caught
A bombing of the worse kind had occurred
It just didn’t seem real or seem fair
Could there be a mistake we asked
Could it have really happened there?
But it was true, we soon discovered
It was announced all over the world
Pain and suffering, the loss of life
Anger of a huge magnitude was hurled
And so on April nineteenth of each year
We honor the loss of precious lives
It’s still so difficult to imagine
And the pain still cuts like a knife
The memorial defines each person
Who lost their life in vain
For family and friends alike
Would give anything to see them again
So let’s all close our eyes for a moment
Pray for those who are hurting still
Hope that the hurt will someday subside
And the ache inside them will heal!
ONCE I pass'd through a populous city, imprinting my brain, for
future use, with its shows, architecture, customs, and
traditions;
Yet now, of all that city, I remember only a woman I casually met
there, who detain'd me for love of me;
Day by day and night by night we were together,--All else has long
been forgotten by me;
I remember, I say, only that woman who passionately clung to me;
Again we wander--we love--we separate again;
Again she holds me by the hand--I must not go!
I see her close beside me, with silent lips, sad and tremulous.
The white woman across the aisle from me says 'Look,
look at all the history, that house
on the hill there is over two hundred years old, '
as she points out the window past me
into what she has been taught. I have learned
little more about American history during my few days
back East than what I expected and far less
of what we should all know of the tribal stories
whose architecture is 15,000 years older
than the corners of the house that sits
museumed on the hill. 'Walden Pond, '
the woman on the train asks, 'Did you see Walden Pond? '
and I don't have a cruel enough heart to break
her own by telling her there are five Walden Ponds
on my little reservation out West
and at least a hundred more surrounding Spokane,
the city I pretended to call my home. 'Listen, '
I could have told her. 'I don't give a shit
about Walden. I know the Indians were living stories
around that pond before Walden's grandparents were born
and before his grandparents' grandparents were born.
I'm tired of hearing about Don-fucking-Henley saving it, too,
because that's redundant. If Don Henley's brothers and sisters
and mothers and father hadn't come here in the first place
then nothing would need to be saved.'
But I didn't say a word to the woman about Walden
Pond because she smiled so much and seemed delighted
that I thought to bring her an orange juice
back from the food car. I respect elders
of every color. All I really did was eat
my tasteless sandwich, drink my Diet Pepsi
and nod my head whenever the woman pointed out
another little piece of her country's history
while I, as all Indians have done
since this war began, made plans
for what I would do and say the next time
somebody from the enemy thought I was one of their own.
. . .telling those who swarm around him his desire
is that an appendage from each of them
fill, invade each of his orifices,--
repeating, chanting
Oh yeahOh yeahOh yeahOh yeahOh yeah
until, as if in darkness he craved the sun, at last he reached
consummation.
Until telling those who swarm around him begins again
(we are the wheel to which we are bound).
Too old to carry arms and fight like the others -
they graciously gave me the inferior role of chronicler
I record - I don't know for whom - the history of the siege
I am supposed to be exact but I don't know when the invasion began
two hundred years ago in December in September perhaps yesterday at dawn
everyone here suffers from a loss of the sense of time
all we have left is the place the attachment to the place
we still rule over the ruins of temples spectres of gardens and houses
if we lose the ruins nothing will be left
I write as I can in the rhythm of interminable weeks
monday: empty storehouses a rat became the unit of currency
tuesday: the mayor murdered by unknown assailants
wednesday: negotiations for a cease-fire the enemy has imprisoned our messengers
we don't know where they are held that is the place of torture
thursday: after a stormy meeting a majority of voices rejected
the motion of the spice merchants for unconditional surrender
friday: the beginning of the plague saturday: our invincible defender
N.N. committed suicide sunday: no more water we drove back
an attack at the eastern gate called the Gate of the Alliance
all of this is monotonous I know it can't move anyone
I avoid any commentary I keep a tight hold on my emotions I write about the facts
only they it seems are appreciated in foreign markets
yet with a certain pride I would like to inform the world
that thanks to the war we have raised a new species of children
our children don’t like fairy tales they play at killing
awake and asleep they dream of soup of bread and bones
just like dogs and cats
in the evening I like to wander near the outposts of the city
along the frontier of our uncertain freedom.
I look at the swarms of soldiers below their lights
I listen to the noise of drums barbarian shrieks
truly it is inconceivable the City is still defending itself
the siege has lasted a long time the enemies must take turns
nothing unites them except the desire for our extermination
Goths the Tartars Swedes troops of the Emperor regiments of the Transfiguration
who can count them
the colours of their banners change like the forest on the horizon
from delicate bird's yellow in spring through green through red to winter's black
and so in the evening released from facts I can think
about distant ancient matters for example our
friends beyond the sea I know they sincerely sympathize
they send us flour lard sacks of comfort and good advice
they don’t even know their fathers betrayed us
our former allies at the time of the second Apocalypse
their sons are blameless they deserve our gratitude therefore we are grateful
they have not experienced a siege as long as eternity
those struck by misfortune are always alone
the defenders of the Dalai Lama the Kurds the Afghan mountaineers
now as I write these words the advocates of conciliation
have won the upper hand over the party of inflexibles
a normal hesitation of moods fate still hangs in the balance
cemeteries grow larger the number of defenders is smaller
yet the defence continues it will continue to the end
and if the City falls but a single man escapes
he will carry the City within himself on the roads of exile
he will be the City
we look in the face of hunger the face of fire face of death
worst of all - the face of betrayal
and only our dreams have not been humiliated
I once walked by the saddest city lane
And saw an old man there, all ragged and plain.
He sat alone by a glowing fires flaring light
An empty wine bottle before him, a sorry, sorry sight.
All he wanted was some shelter and to forget pain,
But the night would spite him that, all it’d bring is cold rain.
And I just walked on, on in wonder, on towards home
Remembering fire in his eyes with mine on the gloam.
There's a lobby by my study where my visitors may enter
which, since we got the kittens, has a dirtbox at the centre.
They're still too young to go outside, that's why I ask for pity:
they've turned my quiet oasis into Shitty Kitty City.
Pity, pity, isn't it a pity?
They've turned my quiet oasis into Shitty Kitty City.
Their mother trained them very well to go into the tray.
They do their stuff and cover it - that's fair enough, you say;
but litter gets flicked everywhere, so underfoot is gritty:
you need your wellies on indoors for Shitty Kitty City.
Pity, pity, isn't it a pity?
You need your wellies on indoors for Shitty Kitty City.
Mind the crap... Mind the crap... Stand clear of the turds, please.
I scoop the jobbies off the floor: the cats think I collect 'em,
so each one keeps on squeezing me a present from its rectum.
There's steaming heaps all over, and it isn't smelling pretty -
it's best to wear a gasmask when in Shitty Kitty City.
Pity, pity, isn't it a pity?
It's best to wear a gasmask when in Shitty Kitty City.
Ip dip dog shit, you are not it.
But soon they will be big enough to do it in the garden.
I'm putting out my begging bowl, for which I beg your pardon.
And now you see, good people all, the reason for my ditty -
a whipround for a catflap door for Shitty Kitty City.
Pity, pity, isn't it a pity?
I need to buy a catflap door for Shitty Kitty City.
Down at suicide city,
Null of pride and past all pity.
Suicide city:
A stressed out Walter Mitty,
I'm at suicide city,
And I've maxed out my last chitty.
Suicide city, for my crime.
It's the dreaming and aphasic snow,
The white noise of this constant go.
And frozen in the cauldron's glow,
Of demons and my fears of woe;
The neediness of knee-jerk foe,
Who'd stand and fight them toe to toe,
Toe to toe, toe to toe...
Down at suicide city,
With nothing in the kitty.
Suicide city:
My life has got so shitty.
I'm at suicide city,
Waist deep in nitty-gritty.
Suicide city. In the slime.
It's the waking and the finding,
Of the ties, no longer binding,
In a white light: burning, blinding,
That no-one wants to know.
It's the grating and the grinding,
Of my teeth and nerves unwinding.
It's the brazen lies, reminding me
Of a dog and pony show!
Down at suicide city,
There ain't no joke so witty.
Suicide city:
The outcome won't be pretty.
I'm at suicide city,
Where I'll sing my final ditty.
Suicide city. Done my time.
I've done my time!
To live between terms, to live where death
has his loud picture in the subway ride,
Being amid six million souls, their breath
An empty song suppressed on every side,
Where the sliding auto's catastrophe
Is a gust past the curb, where numb and high
The office building rises to its tyranny,
Is our anguished diminution until we die.
Whence, if ever, shall come the actuality
Of a voice speaking the mind's knowing,
The sunlight bright on the green windowshade,
And the self articulate, affectionate, and flowing,
Ease, warmth, light, the utter showing,
When in the white bed all things are made.
WHO remains in London,
In the streets with me,
Now that Spring is blowing
Warm winds from the sea;
Now that trees grow green and tall,
Now the sun shines mellow,
And with moist primroses all
English lanes are yellow?
Little barefoot maiden,
Selling violets blue,
Hast thou ever pictur’d
Where the sweetlings grew?
Oh, the warm wild woodland ways,
Deep in dewy grasses,
Where the windblown shadow strays,
Scented as it passes!
Pedlar breathing deeply,
Toiling into town,
With the dusty highway
You are dusky brown;
Hast thou seen by daisied leas,
And by rivers flowing,
Lilac-ringlets which the breeze
Loosens lightly blowing?
Out of yonder wagon
Pleasant hay-scents float,
He who drives it carries
A daisy in his coat:
Oh, the English meadows, fair
Far beyond all praises!
Freckled orchids everywhere
Mid the snow of daisies!
Now in busy silence
Broods the nightingale,
Choosing his love’s dwelling
In a dimpled dale;
Round the leafy bower they raise
Rose-trees wild are springing;
Underneath, thro’ the green haze,
Bounds the brooklet singing.
And his love is silent
As a bird can be,
For the red buds only
Fill the red rose-tree;
Just as buds and blossoms blow
He ’ll begin his tune,
When all is green and roses glow
Underneath the moon.
Nowhere in the valleys
Will the wind be still,
Everything is waving,
Wagging at his will:
Blows the milkmaid’s kirtle clean,
With her hand press’d on it;
Lightly o’er the hedge so green
Blows the ploughboy’s bonnet.
Oh, to be a roaming
In an English dell!
Every nook is wealthy,
All the world looks well,
Tinted soft the Heavens glow,
Over Earth and Ocean,
Waters flow, breezes blow,
All is light and motion!
Across the bridge, where in the morning blow
The wrinkled tide turns homeward, and is fain
Homeward to drag the balck sea-goer's chain,
And the long yards by Dowgate dipping low;
Across dispeopled ways, patient and slow,
Saint Magnus and Saint Dunstan call in vain:
>From Wren's forgotten belfries, in the rain,
Down the blank wharves the dropping octaves go.
Forbid not these! Tho' no man heed, they shower
A subtle beauty on the empty hour,
>From all their dark throats aching and outblown;
Aye in the prayerless places welcome most,
Like the last gull that up a naked coast
Deploys her white and steady wing, alone.
My window shews the travelling clouds,
Leaves spent, new seasons, alter'd sky,
The making and the melting crowds:
The whole world passes; I stand by.
They do not waste their meted hours,
But men and masters plan and build:
I see the crowning of their towers,
And happy promises fulfill'd.
And I - perhaps if my intent
Could count on prediluvian age,
The labours I should then have spent
Might so attain their heritage,
But now before the pot can glow
With not to be discover'd gold,
At length the bellows shall not blow,
The furnace shall at last be cold.
Yet it is now too late to heal
The incapable and cumbrous shame
Which makes me when with men I deal
More powerless than the blind or lame.
No, I should love the city less
Even than this my thankless lore;
But I desire the wilderness
Or weeded landslips of the shore.
I walk my breezy belvedere
To watch the low or levant sun,
I see the city pigeons veer,
I mark the tower swallows run
Between the tower-top and the ground
Below me in the bearing air;
Then find in the horizon-round
One spot and hunger to be there.
And then I hate the most that lore
That holds no promise of success;
Then sweetest seems the houseless shore,
Then free and kind the wilderness,
Or ancient mounds that cover bones,
Or rocks where rockdoves do repair
And trees of terebinth and stones
And silence and a gulf of air.
There on a long and squared height
After the sunset I would lie,
And pierce the yellow waxen light
With free long looking, ere I die.
Beautiful Ancient City of Perth,
One of the grandest on the earth,
With your stately mansions and streets so clean,
And situated between two Inches green,
Which are most magnificent to be seen
The North Inch is beautiful to behold,
Where the daisies and butter-cups their petals unfold,
In the warm summer time of the year,
While the clear silvery Tay rolls by quite near,
And such a scene will your spirits cheer.
The South Inch is lovely, be it said,
And a splendid spot for military parade,
While along the highway there are some big trees,
Where the soldiers can rest or stand at ease,
Whichever way their commanders please.
The surrounding woodland scenery is very grand,
It cannot be surpassed in fair Scotland,
Especially the elegant Palace of Scone, in history renowned,
Where some of Scotland's kings were crowned.
And the Fair Maid of Perth's house is worthy to be seen,
Which is well worth visiting by Duke, Lord, or Queen;
The Fair Maid of Perth caused the battle on the North Inch
'Twixt the Clans Chattan and Kay, and neither of them did flinch,
Until they were cut up inch by inch.
The scenery is lovely in the month of June,
When trees and flowers are in full bloom,
Especially near by the Palace of Scone,
Where the blackbird is heard whistling all day
While near by rolls on the clear silvery Tay.
Of all the cities in Scotland, beautiful Perth for me,
For it is the most elegant city that ever I did see,
With its beautiful woodland scenery along the river Tay,
Which would make the tourist's heart feel gay,
While fishing for trout on a fine summer day.
There, the angler, if he likes to resort
For a few day's fishing, can have excellent sport,
And while he is fishing during the day,
He will feel delighted with the scenery along the river Tay.
And the fish he catches will drive dull care away,
And his toil will be rewarded for the fatigues of the day.
Beautiful city of Perth, magnificent to be seen,
With your grand statues and Inches green,
And your lovely maidens fair and gay,
Which, in conclusion, I will venture to say,
You cannot be surpassed at the present day.
A sad tale of the sea I will relate, which will your hearts appal
Concerning the burning of the steamship "City of Montreal,"
Which had on board two hundred and forty-nine souls in all,
But, alas! a fearful catastrophe did them befall.
The steamer left New York on the 6th August with a general cargo,
Bound for Queenstown and Liverpool also;
And all went well until Wednesday evening the 10th,
When in an instant an alarming fire was discovered at length.
And most of the passengers had gone to their berths for the night,
But when the big bell rang out, oh! what a pitiful sight;
To see mothers and their children crying, was most heartrending to behold,
As the blinding smoke began to ascend from the main hold.
And the smoke before long drifted down below,
Which almost choked the passengers, and filled their hearts with woe;
Then fathers and mothers rushed madly upon the deck,
While the crew were struggling manfully the fire to check.
Oh, it was a soul-harrowing and horrible sight,
To see the brave sailors trying hard with all their might;
Battling furiously with the merciless flames --
With a dozen of hose, but still the fire on them gains.
At length it became apparent the steamer couldn't be saved,
And the passengers were huddled together, and some of them madly raved;
And the family groups were most touching to see,
Especially husbands and wives embracing each other tenderly.
The mothers drew their little ones close to them,
Just like little lambs huddled together in a pen;
While the white foaming billows was towering mountains high,
And one and all on God for protection did cry.
And when the Captain saw the steamer he couldn't save,
He cried, come men, prepare the boats to be launched on the briny wave;
Be quick, and obey my orders, let each one bear a hand-
And steer the vessel direct for Newfoundland.
Then the men made ready the boats, which were eight on board,
Hurriedly and fearlessly with one accord;
And by eight o'clock on Thursday morning, everything was ready
For the passengers to leave the burning steamer that was rolling unsteady.
Then Captain Land on his officers loudly did call,
And the cheery manliness of him inspired confidence in all;
Then he ordered the men to lower the boats without delay,
So the boats were launched on the stormy sea without dismay.
Then women and children were first put into them,
Also a quantity of provisions, then followed the men;
And as soon as the boats were loaded they left the steamer's side,
To be tossed to and fro on the ocean wide.
And just as they left the burning ship, a barque hove in sight,
Which filled the poor creatures' hearts with delight;
And the barque was called the "Trebant," of Germany,
So they were all rescued and conveyed to their homes in safety.
But before they left the barque, they thanked God that did them save
From a cold and merciless watery grave;
Also the Captain received their thanks o'er and o'er,
Whilst the big waves around the barque did sullenly roar.
So good people I warn ye ail to be advised by me,
To remember and be prepared to meet God where'er ye may be;
For death claims his victims, both on sea and shore,
Therefore be prepared for that happy land where all troubles are o'er.
I
To none the city bends a servile knee;
Purse-proud and scornful, on her heights she stands,
And at her feet the great white moaning sea
Shoulders incessantly the grey-gold sands,--
One the Almighty's child since time began,
And one the might of Mammon, born of clods;
For all the city is the work of man,
But all the sea is God's.
II
And she--between the ocean and the town--
Lies cursed of one and by the other blest:
Her staring eyes, her long drenched hair, her gown,
Sea-laved and soiled and dank above her breast.
She, image of her God since life began,
She, but the child of Mammon, born of clods,
Her broken body spoiled and spurned of man,
But her sweet soul is God's.
Beside the pounding cataracts
Of midnight streams unknown to us
'Tis builded in the leafless tracts
And valleys huge of Tartarus.
Lurid and lofty and vast it seems;
It hath no rounded name that rings,
But I have heard it called in dreams
The City of the End of Things.
Its roofs and iron towers have grown
None knoweth how high within the night,
But in its murky streets far down
A flaming terrible and bright
Shakes all the stalking shadows there,
Across the walls, across the floors,
And shifts upon the upper air
From out a thousand furnace doors;
And all the while an awful sound
Keeps roaring on continually,
And crashes in the ceaseless round
Of a gigantic harmony.
Through its grim depths re-echoing
And all its weary height of walls,
With measured roar and iron ring,
The inhuman music lifts and falls.
Where no thing rests and no man is,
And only fire and night hold sway;
The beat, the thunder and the hiss
Cease not, and change not, night nor day.
And moving at unheard commands,
The abysses and vast fires between,
Flit figures that with clanking hands
Obey a hideous routine;
They are not flesh, they are not bone,
They see not with the human eye,
And from their iron lips is blown
A dreadful and monotonous cry;
And whoso of our mortal race
Should find that city unaware,
Lean Death would smite him face to face,
And blanch him with its venomed air:
Or caught by the terrific spell,
Each thread of memory snapt and cut,
His soul would shrivel and its shell
Go rattling like an empty nut.
It was not always so, but once,
In days that no man thinks upon,
Fair voices echoed from its stones,
The light above it leaped and shone:
Once there were multitudes of men,
That built that city in their pride,
Until its might was made, and then
They withered age by age and died.
But now of that prodigious race,
Three only in an iron tower,
Set like carved idols face to face,
Remain the masters of its power;
And at the city gate a fourth,
Gigantic and with dreadful eyes,
Sits looking toward the lightless north,
Beyond the reach of memories;
Fast rooted to the lurid floor,
A bulk that never moves a jot,
In his pale body dwells no more,
Or mind or soul,—an idiot!
But sometime in the end those three
Shall perish and their hands be still,
And with the master's touch shall flee
Their incommunicable skill.
A stillness absolute as death
Along the slacking wheels shall lie,
And, flagging at a single breath,
The fires shall moulder out and die.
The roar shall vanish at its height,
And over that tremendous town
The silence of eternal night
Shall gather close and settle down.
All its grim grandeur, tower and hall,
Shall be abandoned utterly,
And into rust and dust shall fall
From century to century;
Nor ever living thing shall grow,
Nor trunk of tree, nor blade of grass;
No drop shall fall, no wind shall blow,
Nor sound of any foot shall pass:
Alone of its accursèd state,
One thing the hand of Time shall spare,
For the grim Idiot at the gate
Is deathless and eternal there.
It was pleasant up the country, City Bushman, where you went,
For you sought the greener patches and you travelled like a gent;
And you curse the trams and buses and the turmoil and the push,
Though you know the squalid city needn't keep you from the bush;
But we lately heard you singing of the `plains where shade is not',
And you mentioned it was dusty -- `all was dry and all was hot'.
True, the bush `hath moods and changes' -- and the bushman hath 'em, too,
For he's not a poet's dummy -- he's a man, the same as you;
But his back is growing rounder -- slaving for the absentee --
And his toiling wife is thinner than a country wife should be.
For we noticed that the faces of the folks we chanced to meet
Should have made a greater contrast to the faces in the street;
And, in short, we think the bushman's being driven to the wall,
And it's doubtful if his spirit will be `loyal thro' it all'.
Though the bush has been romantic and it's nice to sing about,
There's a lot of patriotism that the land could do without --
Sort of BRITISH WORKMAN nonsense that shall perish in the scorn
Of the drover who is driven and the shearer who is shorn,
Of the struggling western farmers who have little time for rest,
And are ruined on selections in the sheep-infested West;
Droving songs are very pretty, but they merit little thanks
From the people of a country in possession of the Banks.
And the `rise and fall of seasons' suits the rise and fall of rhyme,
But we know that western seasons do not run on schedule time;
For the drought will go on drying while there's anything to dry,
Then it rains until you'd fancy it would bleach the sunny sky --
Then it pelters out of reason, for the downpour day and night
Nearly sweeps the population to the Great Australian Bight.
It is up in Northern Queensland that the seasons do their best,
But it's doubtful if you ever saw a season in the West;
There are years without an autumn or a winter or a spring,
There are broiling Junes, and summers when it rains like anything.
In the bush my ears were opened to the singing of the bird,
But the `carol of the magpie' was a thing I never heard.
Once the beggar roused my slumbers in a shanty, it is true,
But I only heard him asking, `Who the blanky blank are you?'
And the bell-bird in the ranges -- but his `silver chime' is harsh
When it's heard beside the solo of the curlew in the marsh.
Yes, I heard the shearers singing `William Riley', out of tune,
Saw 'em fighting round a shanty on a Sunday afternoon,
But the bushman isn't always `trapping brumbies in the night',
Nor is he for ever riding when `the morn is fresh and bright',
And he isn't always singing in the humpies on the run --
And the camp-fire's `cheery blazes' are a trifle overdone;
We have grumbled with the bushmen round the fire on rainy days,
When the smoke would blind a bullock and there wasn't any blaze,
Save the blazes of our language, for we cursed the fire in turn
Till the atmosphere was heated and the wood began to burn.
Then we had to wring our blueys which were rotting in the swags,
And we saw the sugar leaking through the bottoms of the bags,
And we couldn't raise a chorus, for the toothache and the cramp,
While we spent the hours of darkness draining puddles round the camp.
Would you like to change with Clancy -- go a-droving? tell us true,
For we rather think that Clancy would be glad to change with you,
And be something in the city; but 'twould give your muse a shock
To be losing time and money through the foot-rot in the flock,
And you wouldn't mind the beauties underneath the starry dome
If you had a wife and children and a lot of bills at home.
Did you ever guard the cattle when the night was inky-black,
And it rained, and icy water trickled gently down your back
Till your saddle-weary backbone fell a-aching to the roots
And you almost felt the croaking of the bull-frog in your boots --
Sit and shiver in the saddle, curse the restless stock and cough
Till a squatter's irate dummy cantered up to warn you off?
Did you fight the drought and pleuro when the `seasons' were asleep,
Felling sheoaks all the morning for a flock of starving sheep,
Drinking mud instead of water -- climbing trees and lopping boughs
For the broken-hearted bullocks and the dry and dusty cows?
Do you think the bush was better in the `good old droving days',
When the squatter ruled supremely as the king of western ways,
When you got a slip of paper for the little you could earn,
But were forced to take provisions from the station in return --
When you couldn't keep a chicken at your humpy on the run,
For the squatter wouldn't let you -- and your work was never done;
When you had to leave the missus in a lonely hut forlorn
While you `rose up Willy Riley' -- in the days ere you were born?
Ah! we read about the drovers and the shearers and the like
Till we wonder why such happy and romantic fellows strike.
Don't you fancy that the poets ought to give the bush a rest
Ere they raise a just rebellion in the over-written West?
Where the simple-minded bushman gets a meal and bed and rum
Just by riding round reporting phantom flocks that never come;
Where the scalper -- never troubled by the `war-whoop of the push' --
Has a quiet little billet -- breeding rabbits in the bush;
Where the idle shanty-keeper never fails to make a draw,
And the dummy gets his tucker through provisions in the law;
Where the labour-agitator -- when the shearers rise in might --
Makes his money sacrificing all his substance for The Right;
Where the squatter makes his fortune, and `the seasons rise and fall',
And the poor and honest bushman has to suffer for it all;
Where the drovers and the shearers and the bushmen and the rest
Never reach the Eldorado of the poets of the West.
And you think the bush is purer and that life is better there,
But it doesn't seem to pay you like the `squalid street and square'.
Pray inform us, City Bushman, where you read, in prose or verse,
Of the awful `city urchin who would greet you with a curse'.
There are golden hearts in gutters, though their owners lack the fat,
And we'll back a teamster's offspring to outswear a city brat.
Do you think we're never jolly where the trams and buses rage?
Did you hear the gods in chorus when `Ri-tooral' held the stage?
Did you catch a ring of sorrow in the city urchin's voice
When he yelled for Billy Elton, when he thumped the floor for Royce?
Do the bushmen, down on pleasure, miss the everlasting stars
When they drink and flirt and so on in the glow of private bars?
You've a down on `trams and buses', or the `roar' of 'em, you said,
And the `filthy, dirty attic', where you never toiled for bread.
(And about that self-same attic -- Lord! wherever have you been?
For the struggling needlewoman mostly keeps her attic clean.)
But you'll find it very jolly with the cuff-and-collar push,
And the city seems to suit you, while you rave about the bush.
.    .    .    .    .
You'll admit that Up-the Country, more especially in drought,
Isn't quite the Eldorado that the poets rave about,
Yet at times we long to gallop where the reckless bushman rides
In the wake of startled brumbies that are flying for their hides;
Long to feel the saddle tremble once again between our knees
And to hear the stockwhips rattle just like rifles in the trees!
Long to feel the bridle-leather tugging strongly in the hand
And to feel once more a little like a native of the land.
And the ring of bitter feeling in the jingling of our rhymes
Isn't suited to the country nor the spirit of the times.
Let us go together droving, and returning, if we live,
Try to understand each other while we reckon up the div.
BY the City Dead-House, by the gate,
As idly sauntering, wending my way from the clangor,
I curious pause--for lo! an outcast form, a poor dead prostitute
brought;
Her corpse they deposit unclaim'd--it lies on the damp brick
pavement;
The divine woman, her body--I see the Body--I look on it alone,
That house once full of passion and beauty--all else I notice not;
Nor stillness so cold, nor running water from faucet, nor odors
morbific impress me;
But the house alone--that wondrous house--that delicate fair house--
that ruin!
That immortal house, more than all the rows of dwellings ever built!
Or white-domed Capitol itself, with majestic figure surmounted--or
all the old high-spired cathedrals;                          10
That little house alone, more than them all--poor, desperate house!
Fair, fearful wreck! tenement of a Soul! itself a Soul!
Unclaim'd, avoided house! take one breath from my tremulous lips;
Take one tear, dropt aside as I go, for thought of you,
Dead house of love! house of madness and sin, crumbled! crush'd!
House of life--erewhile talking and laughing--but ah, poor house!
dead, even then;
Months, years, an echoing, garnish'd house--but dead, dead, dead.
Lo! Death has reared himself a throne
In a strange city lying alone
Far down within the dim West,
Where the good and the bad and the worst and the best
Have gone to their eternal rest.
There shrines and palaces and towers
(Time-eaten towers that tremble not!)
Resemble nothing that is ours.
Around, by lifting winds forgot,
Resignedly beneath the sky
The melancholy waters he.
No rays from the holy heaven come down
On the long night-time of that town;
But light from out the lurid sea
Streams up the turrets silently-
Gleams up the pinnacles far and free-
Up domes- up spires- up kingly halls-
Up fanes- up Babylon-like walls-
Up shadowy long-forgotten bowers
Of sculptured ivy and stone flowers-
Up many and many a marvellous shrine
Whose wreathed friezes intertwine
The viol, the violet, and the vine.
Resignedly beneath the sky
The melancholy waters lie.
So blend the turrets and shadows there
That all seem pendulous in air,
While from a proud tower in the town
Death looks gigantically down.
There open fanes and gaping graves
Yawn level with the luminous waves;
But not the riches there that lie
In each idol's diamond eye-
Not the gaily-jewelled dead
Tempt the waters from their bed;
For no ripples curl, alas!
Along that wilderness of glass-
No swellings tell that winds may be
Upon some far-off happier sea-
No heavings hint that winds have been
On seas less hideously serene.
But lo, a stir is in the air!
The wave- there is a movement there!
As if the towers had thrust aside,
In slightly sinking, the dull tide-
As if their tops had feebly given
A void within the filmy Heaven.
The waves have now a redder glow-
The hours are breathing faint and low-
And when, amid no earthly moans,
Down, down that town shall settle hence,
Hell, rising from a thousand thrones,
Shall do it reverence.
And when, in the city in which I love you,
even my most excellent song goes unanswered,
andI mount the scabbed streets,
the long shouts of avenues,
and tunnel sunken night in search of you...
That I negotiate fog, bituminous
rain rining like teeth into the beggar's tin,
or two men jackaling a third in some alley
weirdly lit by a couch on fire, that I
drag my extinction in search of you...
Past the guarded schoolyards, the boarded-up churches, swastikaed
synagogues, defended houses of worship, past
newspapered windows of tenements, along the violated,
the prosecuted citizenry, throughout this
storied, buttressed, scavenged, policed
city I call home, in which I am a guest...
a bruise, blue
in the muscle, you
impinge upon me.
As bone hugs the ache home, so
I'm vexed to love you, your body
the shape of returns, your hair a torso
of light, your heat
I must have, your opening
I'd eat, each moment
of that soft-finned fruit,
inverted fountain in which I don't see me.
My tongue remembers your wounded flavor.
The vein in my neck
adores you. A sword
stands up between my hips,
my hidden fleece send forth its scent of human oil.
The shadows under my arms,
I promise, are tender, the shadows
under my face. Do not calculate,
but come, smooth other, rough sister.
Yet, how will you know me
among the captives, my hair grown long,
my blood motley, my ways trespassed upon?
In the uproar, the confusion
of accents and inflections
how will you hear me when I open my mouth?
Look for me, one of the drab population
under fissured edifices, fractured
artifices. Make my various
names flock overhead,
I will follow you.
Hew me to your beauty.
Stack in me the unaccountable fire,
bring on me the iron leaf, but tenderly.
Folded one hundred times and
creased, I'll not crack.
Threshed to excellence, I'll achieve you.
but in the city
in which I love you,
no one comes, no one
meets me in the brick clefts;
in the wedged dark,
no finger touches me secretly, no mouth
tastes my flawless salt,
no one wakens the honey in the cells, finds the humming
in the ribs, the rich business in the recesses;
hulls clogged, I continue laden, translated
by exhaustion and time's appetite, my sleep abandoned
in bus stations and storefront stoops,
my insomnia erected under a sky
cross-hatched by wires, branches,
and black flights of rain. Lewd body of wind
jams me in the passageways, doors slam
like guns going off, a gun goes off, a pie plate spins
past, whizzing its thin tremolo,
a plastic bag, fat with wind, barrels by and slaps
a chain-link fence, wraps it like clung skin.
In the excavated places,
I waited for you, and I did not cry out.
In the derelict rooms, my body needed you,
and there was such flight in my breast.
During the daily assaults, I called to you,
and my voice pursued you,
even backward
to that other city
in which I saw a woman
squat in the street
beside a body,
and fan with a handkerchief flies from its face.
That woman
was not me. And
the corpse
lying there, lying there
so still it seemed with great effort, as though
his whole being was concentrating on the hole
in his forehead, so still
I expected he'd sit up any minute and laugh out loud:
that man was not me;
his wound was his, his death not mine.
and the soldier
who fired the shot, then lit a cigarette:
he was not me.
And the ones I do not see
in cities all over the world,
the ones sitting, standing, lying down, those
in prisons playing checkers with their knocked-out teeth:
they are not me. Some of them are
my age, even my height and weight;
none of them is me.
The woman who is slapped, the man who is kicked,
the ones who don't survive,
whose names I do not know;
they are not me forever,
the ones who no longer live
in the cities in which
you are not,
the cities in which I looked for you.
The rain stops, the moon
in her breaths appears overhead.
the only sound now is a far flapping.
Over the National Bank, the flag of some republic or other
gallops like water on fire to tear itself away.
If I feel the night
move to disclosures or crescendos,
it's only because I'm famished
for meaning; the night
merely dissolves.
And your otherness is perfect as my death.
Your otherness exhausts me,
like looking suddenly up from here
to impossible stars fading.
Everything is punished by your absence.
Is prayer, then, the proper attitude
for the mind that longs to be freely blown,
but which gets snagged on the barb
called world, that
tooth-ache, the actual? What prayer
would I build? And to whom?
Where are you
in the cities in which I love you,
the cities daily risen to work and to money,
to the magnificent miles and the gold coasts?
Morning comes to this city vacant of you.
Pages and windows flare, and you are not there.
Someone sweeps his portion of sidewalk,
wakens the drunk, slumped like laundry,
and you are gone.
You are not in the wind
which someone notes in the margins of a book.
You are gone out of the small fires in abandoned lots
where human figures huddle,
each aspiring to its own ghost.
Between brick walls, in a space no wider than my face,
a leafless sapling stands in mud.
In its branches, a nest of raw mouths
gaping and cheeping, scrawny fires that must eat.
My hunger for you is no less than theirs.
At the gates of the city in which I love you,
the sea hauls the sun on its back,
strikes the land, which rebukes it.
what ardor in its sliding heft,
a flameless friction on the rocks.
Like the sea, I am recommended by my orphaning.
Noisy with telegrams not received,
quarrelsome with aliases,
intricate with misguided journeys,
by my expulsions have I come to love you.
Straight from my father's wrath,
and long from my mother's womb,
late in this century and on a Wednesday morning,
bearing the mark of one who's experienced
neither heaven nor hell,
my birthplace vanished, my citizenship earned,
in league with stones of the earth, I
enter, without retreat or help from history,
the days of no day, my earth
of no earth, I re-enter
the city in which I love you.
And I never believed that the multitude
of dreams and many words were vain.
God sits up in Heaven and laughs as the nations imagine a vain thing,
For the internationalism of Jerusalem, is the song they seem to sing.
And it is far from an original song that all the nations are singing,
For God made Jerusalem the center of this world before their being.
For God Himself purged the land of Canaan to be the land of the Jew,
And He told Moses to prepare to worship at a place I will show you.
But Moses never crossed the Jordan and was buried by God's own Hand,
And Joshua took over to lead the Israelites into The Promised Land.
And from the time of Moses through the Judges wherever the Jews went,
The Ark of God's Covenant and the Glory of God remained under a tent.
It was not until God gave Israel rest under King David their leader,
That in the City God chose, he desired to make God a house of cedar.
The City that God chose was Jerusalem, on which He placed His Name,
For it is The City of David, and on it God's Name will always remain.
God remembered His Promise to David, and his desire was not ignored,
For God had told David's son Solomon to build a temple for The Lord.
Then God consecrated this temple by putting His Name on it forever,
And this promise to Solomon by God, He can not and He will not sever.
So even though things look quite gloomy in Jerusalem today my friend,
Zechariah says The Lord will inherit Judah to choose Jerusalem again.
(Copyright © 06/2002)
Per me si va nella citta dolente.
--Dante
Poi di tanto adoprar, di tanti moti
D'ogni celeste, ogni terrena cosa,
Girando senza posa,
Per tornar sempre la donde son mosse;
Uso alcuno, alcun frutto
Indovinar non so.
Sola nel mondo eterna, a cui si volve
Ogni creata cosa,
In te, morte, si posa
Nostra ignuda natura;
Lieta no, ma sicura
Dell' antico dolor . . .
Pero ch' esser beato
Nega ai mortali e nega a' morti il fato.
--Leopardi
PROEM
Lo, thus, as prostrate, "In the dust I write
My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears."
Yet why evoke the spectres of black night
To blot the sunshine of exultant years?
Why disinter dead faith from mouldering hidden?
Why break the seals of mute despair unbidden,
And wail life's discords into careless ears?
Because a cold rage seizes one at whiles
To show the bitter old and wrinkled truth
Stripped naked of all vesture that beguiles,
False dreams, false hopes, false masks and modes of youth;
Because it gives some sense of power and passion
In helpless innocence to try to fashion
Our woe in living words howe'er uncouth.
Surely I write not for the hopeful young,
Or those who deem their happiness of worth,
Or such as pasture and grow fat among
The shows of life and feel nor doubt nor dearth,
Or pious spirits with a God above them
To sanctify and glorify and love them,
Or sages who foresee a heaven on earth.
For none of these I write, and none of these
Could read the writing if they deigned to try;
So may they flourish in their due degrees,
On our sweet earth and in their unplaced sky.
If any cares for the weak words here written,
It must be some one desolate, Fate-smitten,
Whose faith and hopes are dead, and who would die.
Yes, here and there some weary wanderer
In that same city of tremendous night,
Will understand the speech and feel a stir
Of fellowship in all-disastrous fight;
"I suffer mute and lonely, yet another
Uplifts his voice to let me know a brother
Travels the same wild paths though out of sight."
O sad Fraternity, do I unfold
Your dolorous mysteries shrouded from of yore?
Nay, be assured; no secret can be told
To any who divined it not before:
None uninitiate by many a presage
Will comprehend the language of the message,
Although proclaimed aloud for evermore.
I
The City is of Night; perchance of Death
But certainly of Night; for never there
Can come the lucid morning's fragrant breath
After the dewy dawning's cold grey air:
The moon and stars may shine with scorn or pity
The sun has never visited that city,
For it dissolveth in the daylight fair.
Dissolveth like a dream of night away;
Though present in distempered gloom of thought
And deadly weariness of heart all day.
But when a dream night after night is brought
Throughout a week, and such weeks few or many
Recur each year for several years, can any
Discern that dream from real life in aught?
For life is but a dream whose shapes return,
Some frequently, some seldom, some by night
And some by day, some night and day: we learn,
The while all change and many vanish quite,
In their recurrence with recurrent changes
A certain seeming order; where this ranges
We count things real; such is memory's might.
A river girds the city west and south,
The main north channel of a broad lagoon,
Regurging with the salt tides from the mouth;
Waste marshes shine and glister to the moon
For leagues, then moorland black, then stony ridges;
Great piers and causeways, many noble bridges,
Connect the town and islet suburbs strewn.
Upon an easy slope it lies at large
And scarcely overlaps the long curved crest
Which swells out two leagues from the river marge.
A trackless wilderness rolls north and west,
Savannahs, savage woods, enormous mountains,
Bleak uplands, black ravines with torrent fountains;
And eastward rolls the shipless sea's unrest.
The city is not ruinous, although
Great ruins of an unremembered past,
With others of a few short years ago
More sad, are found within its precincts vast.
The street-lamps always burn; but scarce a casement
In house or palace front from roof to basement
Doth glow or gleam athwart the mirk air cast.
The street-lamps burn amid the baleful glooms,
Amidst the soundless solitudes immense
Of ranged mansions dark and still as tombs.
The silence which benumbs or strains the sense
Fulfils with awe the soul's despair unweeping:
Myriads of habitants are ever sleeping,
Or dead, or fled from nameless pestilence!
Yet as in some necropolis you find
Perchance one mourner to a thousand dead,
So there: worn faces that look deaf and blind
Like tragic masks of stone. With weary tread,
Each wrapt in his own doom, they wander, wander,
Or sit foredone and desolately ponder
Through sleepless hours with heavy drooping head.
Mature men chiefly, few in age or youth,
A woman rarely, now and then a child:
A child! If here the heart turns sick with ruth
To see a little one from birth defiled,
Or lame or blind, as preordained to languish
Through youthless life, think how it bleeds with anguish
To meet one erring in that homeless wild.
They often murmur to themselves, they speak
To one another seldom, for their woe
Broods maddening inwardly and scorns to wreak
Itself abroad; and if at whiles it grow
To frenzy which must rave, none heeds the clamour,
Unless there waits some victim of like glamour,
To rave in turn, who lends attentive show.
The City is of Night, but not of Sleep;
There sweet sleep is not for the weary brain;
The pitiless hours like years and ages creep,
A night seems termless hell. This dreadful strain
Of thought and consciousness which never ceases,
Or which some moments' stupor but increases,
This, worse than woe, makes wretches there insane.
They leave all hope behind who enter there:
One certitude while sane they cannot leave,
One anodyne for torture and despair;
The certitude of Death, which no reprieve
Can put off long; and which, divinely tender,
But waits the outstretched hand to promptly render
That draught whose slumber nothing can bereave
II
Because he seemed to walk with an intent
I followed him; who, shadowlike and frail,
Unswervingly though slowly onward went,
Regardless, wrapt in thought as in a veil:
Thus step for step with lonely sounding feet
We travelled many a long dim silent street.
At length he paused: a black mass in the gloom,
A tower that merged into the heavy sky;
Around, the huddled stones of grave and tomb:
Some old God's-acre now corruption's sty:
He murmured to himself with dull despair,
Here Faith died, poisoned by this charnel air.
Then turning to the right went on once more
And travelled weary roads without suspense;
And reached at last a low wall's open door,
Whose villa gleamed beyond the foliage dense:
He gazed, and muttered with a hard despair,
Here Love died, stabbed by its own worshipped pair.
Then turning to the right resumed his march,
And travelled street and lanes with wondrous strength,
Until on stooping through a narrow arch
We stood before a squalid house at length:
He gazed, and whispered with a cold despair,
Here Hope died, starved out in its utmost lair.
When he had spoken thus, before he stirred,
I spoke, perplexed by something in the signs
Of desolation I had seen and heard
In this drear pilgrimage to ruined shrines:
Where Faith and Love and Hope are dead indeed,
Can Life still live? By what doth it proceed?
As whom his one intense thought overpowers,
He answered coldly, Take a watch, erase
The signs and figures of the circling hours,
Detach the hands, remove the dial-face;
The works proceed until run down; although
Bereft of purpose, void of use, still go.
Then turning to the right paced on again,
And traversed squares and travelled streets whose glooms
Seemed more and more familiar to my ken;
And reached that sullen temple of the tombs;
And paused to murmur with the old despair,
Here Faith died, poisoned by this charnel air.
I ceased to follow, for the knot of doubt
Was severed sharply with a cruel knife:
He circled thus forever tracing out
The series of the fraction left of Life;
Perpetual recurrence in the scope
Of but three terms, dead Faith, dead Love, dead Hope. [ 1]
LXX
[1] Life divided by that persistent three = --- = .210.
333
III
Although lamps burn along the silent streets,
Even when moonlight silvers empty squares
The dark holds countless lanes and close retreats;
But when the night its sphereless mantle wears
The open spaces yawn with gloom abysmal,
The sombre mansions loom immense and dismal,
The lanes are black as subterranean lairs.
And soon the eye a strange new vision learns:
The night remains for it as dark and dense,
Yet clearly in this darkness it discerns
As in the daylight with its natural sense;
Perceives a shade in shadow not obscurely,
Pursues a stir of black in blackness surely,
Sees spectres also in the gloom intense.
The ear, too, with the silence vast and deep
Becomes familiar though unreconciled;
Hears breathings as of hidden life asleep,
And muffled throbs as of pent passions wild,
Far murmurs, speech of pity or derision;
but all more dubious than the things of vision,
So that it knows not when it is beguiled.
No time abates the first despair and awe,
But wonder ceases soon; the weirdest thing
Is felt least strange beneath the lawless law
Where Death-in-Life is the eternal king;
Crushed impotent beneath this reign of terror,
Dazed with mysteries of woe and error,
The soul is too outworn for wondering.
IV
He stood alone within the spacious square
Declaiming from the central grassy mound,
With head uncovered and with streaming hair,
As if large multitudes were gathered round:
A stalwart shape, the gestures full of might,
The glances burning with unnatural light:--
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: All was black,
In heaven no single star, on earth no track;
A brooding hush without a stir or note,
The air so thick it clotted in my throat;
And thus for hours; then some enormous things
Swooped past with savage cries and clanking wings:
But I strode on austere;
No hope could have no fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: Eyes of fire
Glared at me throbbing with a starved desire;
The hoarse and heavy and carnivorous breath
Was hot upon me from deep jaws of death;
Sharp claws, swift talons, fleshless fingers cold
Plucked at me from the bushes, tried to hold:
But I strode on austere;
No hope could have no fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: Lo you, there,
That hillock burning with a brazen glare;
Those myriad dusky flames with points a-glow
Which writhed and hissed and darted to and fro;
A Sabbath of the Serpents, heaped pell-mell
For Devil's roll-call and some fete of Hell:
Yet I strode on austere;
No hope could have no fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: Meteors ran
And crossed their javelins on the black sky-span;
The zenith opened to a gulf of flame,
The dreadful thunderbolts jarred earth's fixed frame;
The ground all heaved in waves of fire that surged
And weltered round me sole there unsubmerged:
Yet I strode on austere;
No hope could have no fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: Air once more,
And I was close upon a wild sea-shore;
Enormous cliffs arose on either hand,
The deep tide thundered up a league-broad strand;
White foambelts seethed there, wan spray swept and flew;
The sky broke, moon and stars and clouds and blue:
Yet I strode on austere;
No hope could have no fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: On the left
The sun arose and crowned a broad crag-cleft;
There stopped and burned out black, except a rim,
A bleeding eyeless socket, red and dim;
Whereon the moon fell suddenly south-west,
And stood above the right-hand cliffs at rest:
Yet I strode on austere;
No hope could have no fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: From the right
A shape came slowly with a ruddy light;
A woman with a red lamp in her hand,
Bareheaded and barefooted on that strand;
O desolation moving with such grace!
O anguish with such beauty in thy face!
I fell as on my bier,
Hope travailed with such fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: I was twain,
Two selves distinct that cannot join again;
One stood apart and knew but could not stir,
And watched the other stark in swoon and her;
And she came on, and never turned aside,
Between such sun and moon and roaring tide:
And as she came more near
My soul grew mad with fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: Hell is mild
And piteous matched with that accursed wild;
A large black sign was on her breast that bowed,
A broad black band ran down her snow-white shroud;
That lamp she held was her own burning heart,
Whose blood-drops trickled step by step apart:
The mystery was clear;
Mad rage had swallowed fear.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: By the sea
She knelt and bent above that senseless me;
Those lamp-drops fell upon my white brow there,
She tried to cleanse them with her tears and hair;
She murmured words of pity, love, and woe,
Shee heeded not the level rushing flow:
And mad with rage and fear,
I stood stonebound so near.
As I came through the desert thus it was,
As I came through the desert: When the tide
Swept up to her there kneeling by my side,
She clasped that corpse-like me, and they were borne
Away, and this vile me was left forlorn;
I know the whole sea cannot quench that heart,
Or cleanse that brow, or wash those two apart:
They love; their doom is drear,
Yet they nor hope nor fear;
But I, what do I here?
V
How he arrives there none can clearly know;
Athwart the mountains and immense wild tracts,
Or flung a waif upon that vast sea-flow,
Or down the river's boiling cataracts:
To reach it is as dying fever-stricken
To leave it, slow faint birth intense pangs quicken;
And memory swoons in both the tragic acts.
But being there one feels a citizen;
Escape seems hopeless to the heart forlorn:
Can Death-in-Life be brought to life again?
And yet release does come; there comes a morn
When he awakes from slumbering so sweetly
That all the world is changed for him completely,
And he is verily as if new-born.
He scarcely can believe the blissful change,
He weeps perchance who wept not while accurst;
Never again will he approach the range
Infected by that evil spell now burst:
Poor wretch! who once hath paced that dolent city
Shall pace it often, doomed beyond all pity,
With horror ever deepening from the first.
Though he possess sweet babes and loving wife,
A home of peace by loyal friendships cheered,
And love them more than death or happy life,
They shall avail not; he must dree his weird;
Renounce all blessings for that imprecation,
Steal forth and haunt that builded desolation,
Of woe and terrors and thick darkness reared.
VI
I sat forlornly by the river-side,
And watched the bridge-lamps glow like golden stars
Above the blackness of the swelling tide,
Down which they struck rough gold in ruddier bars;
And heard the heave and plashing of the flow
Against the wall a dozen feet below.
Large elm-trees stood along that river-walk;
And under one, a few steps from my seat,
I heard strange voices join in stranger talk,
Although I had not heard approaching feet:
These bodiless voices in my waking dream
Flowed dark words blending with sombre stream:--
And you have after all come back; come back.
I was about to follow on your track.
And you have failed: our spark of hope is black.
That I have failed is proved by my return:
The spark is quenched, nor ever more will burn,
But listen; and the story you shall learn.
I reached the portal common spirits fear,
And read the words above it, dark yet clear,
"Leave hope behind, all ye who enter here:"
And would have passed in, gratified to gain
That positive eternity of pain
Instead of this insufferable inane.
A demon warder clutched me, Not so fast;
First leave your hopes behind!--But years have passed
Since I left all behind me, to the last:
You cannot count for hope, with all your wit,
This bleak despair that drives me to the Pit:
How could I seek to enter void of it?
He snarled, What thing is this which apes a soul,
And would find entrance to our gulf of dole
Without the payment of the settled toll?
Outside the gate he showed an open chest:
Here pay their entrance fees the souls unblest;
Cast in some hope, you enter with the rest.
This is Pandora's box; whose lid shall shut,
And Hell-gate too, when hopes have filled it; but
They are so thin that it will never glut.
I stood a few steps backwards, desolate;
And watched the spirits pass me to their fate,
And fling off hope, and enter at the gate.
When one casts off a load he springs upright,
Squares back his shoulders, breathes will all his might,
And briskly paces forward strong and light:
But these, as if they took some burden, bowed;
The whole frame sank; however strong and proud
Before, they crept in quite infirm and cowed.
And as they passed me, earnestly from each
A morsel of his hope I did beseech,
To pay my entrance; but all mocked my speech.
No one would cede a little of his store,
Though knowing that in instants three or four
He must resign the whole for evermore.
So I returned. Our destiny is fell;
For in this Limbo we must ever dwell,
Shut out alike from heaven and Earth and Hell.
The other sighed back, Yea; but if we grope
With care through all this Limbo's dreary scope,
We yet may pick up some minute lost hope;
And sharing it between us, entrance win,
In spite of fiends so jealous for gross sin:
Let us without delay our search begin.
VII
Some say that phantoms haunt those shadowy streets,
And mingle freely there with sparse mankind;
And tell of ancient woes and black defeats,
And murmur mysteries in the grave enshrined:
But others think them visions of illusion,
Or even men gone far in self-confusion;
No man there being wholly sane in mind.
And yet a man who raves, however mad,
Who bares his heart and tells of his own fall,
Reserves some inmost secret good or bad:
The phantoms have no reticence at all:
The nudity of flesh will blush though tameless
The extreme nudity of bone grins shameless,
The unsexed skeleton mocks shroud and pall.
I have seen phantoms there that were as men
And men that were as phantoms flit and roam;
Marked shapes that were not living to my ken,
Caught breathings acrid as with Dead Sea foam:
The City rests for man so weird and awful,
That his intrusion there might seem unlawful,
And phantoms there may have their proper home.
VIII
While I still lingered on that river-walk,
And watched the tide as black as our black doom,
I heard another couple join in talk,
And saw them to the left hand in the gloom
Seated against an elm bole on the ground,
Their eyes intent upon the stream profound.
"I never knew another man on earth
But had some joy and solace in his life,
Some chance of triumph in the dreadful strife:
My doom has been unmitigated dearth."
"We gaze upon the river, and we note
The various vessels large and small that float,
Ignoring every wrecked and sunken boat."
"And yet I asked no splendid dower, no spoil
Of sway or fame or rank or even wealth;
But homely love with common food and health,
And nightly sleep to balance daily toil."
"This all-too-humble soul would arrogate
Unto itself some signalising hate
From the supreme indifference of Fate!"
"Who is most wretched in this dolorous place?
I think myself; yet I would rather be
My miserable self than He, than He
Who formed such creatures to His own disgrace.
"The vilest thing must be less vile than Thou
From whom it had its being, God and Lord!
Creator of all woe and sin! abhorred
Malignant and implacable! I vow
"That not for all Thy power furled and unfurled,
For all the temples to Thy glory built,
Would I assume the ignominious guilt
Of having made such men in such a world."
"As if a Being, God or Fiend, could reign,
At once so wicked, foolish and insane,
As to produce men when He might refrain!
"The world rolls round for ever like a mill;
It grinds out death and life and good and ill;
It has no purpose, heart or mind or will.
"While air of Space and Time's full river flow
The mill must blindly whirl unresting so:
It may be wearing out, but who can know?
"Man might know one thing were his sight less dim;
That it whirls not to suit his petty whim,
That it is quite indifferent to him.
"Nay, does it treat him harshly as he saith?
It grinds him some slow years of bitter breath,
Then grinds him back into eternal death."
IX
It is full strange to him who hears and feels,
When wandering there in some deserted street,
The booming and the jar of ponderous wheels,
The trampling clash of heavy ironshod feet:
Who in this Venice of the Black Sea rideth?
Who in this city of the stars abideth
To buy or sell as those in daylight sweet?
The rolling thunder seems to fill the sky
As it comes on; the horses snort and strain,
The harness jingles, as it passes by;
The hugeness of an overburthened wain:
A man sits nodding on the shaft or trudges
Three parts asleep beside his fellow-drudges:
And so it rolls into the night again.
What merchandise? whence, whither, and for whom?
Perchance it is a Fate-appointed hearse,
Bearing away to some mysterious tomb
Or Limbo of the scornful universe
The joy, the peace, the life-hope, the abortions
Of all things good which should have been our portions,
But have been strangled by that City's curse.
X
The mansion stood apart in its own ground;
In front thereof a fragrant garden-lawn,
High trees about it, and the whole walled round:
The massy iron gates were both withdrawn;
And every window of its front shed light,
Portentous in that City of the Night.
But though thus lighted it was deadly still
As all the countless bulks of solid gloom;
Perchance a congregation to fulfil
Solemnities of silence in this doom,
Mysterious rites of dolour and despair
Permitting not a breath or chant of prayer?
Broad steps ascended to a terrace broad
Whereon lay still light from the open door;
The hall was noble, and its aspect awed,
Hung round with heavy black from dome to floor;
And ample stairways rose to left and right
Whose balustrades were also draped with night.
I paced from room to room, from hall to hall,
Nor any life throughout the maze discerned;
But each was hung with its funereal pall,
And held a shrine, around which tapers burned,
With picture or with statue or with bust,
all copied from the same fair form of dust:
A woman very young and very fair;
Beloved by bounteous life and joy and youth,
And loving these sweet lovers, so that care
And age and death seemed not for her in sooth:
Alike as stars, all beautiful and bright,
these shapes lit up that mausolean night.
At length I heard a murmur as of lips,
And reached an open oratory hung
With heaviest blackness of the whole eclipse;
Beneath the dome a fuming censer swung;
And one lay there upon a low white bed,
With tapers burning at the foot and head:
The Lady of the images, supine,
Deathstill, lifesweet, with folded palms she lay:
And kneeling there as at a sacred shrine
A young man wan and worn who seemed to pray:
A crucifix of dim and ghostly white
Surmounted the large altar left in night:--
The chambers of the mansion of my heart,
In every one whereof thine image dwells,
Are black with grief eternal for thy sake.
The inmost oratory of my soul,
Wherein thou ever dwellest quick or dead,
Is black with grief eternal for thy sake.
I kneel beside thee and I clasp the cross,
With eyes forever fixed upon that face,
So beautiful and dreadful in its calm.
I kneel here patient as thou liest there;
As patient as a statue carved in stone,
Of adoration and eternal grief.
While thou dost not awake I cannot move;
And something tells me thou wilt never wake,
And I alive feel turning into stone.
Most beautiful were Death to end my grief,
Most hateful to destroy the sight of thee,
Dear vision better than all death or life.
But I renounce all choice of life or death,
For either shall be ever at thy side,
And thus in bliss or woe be ever well.--
He murmured thus and thus in monotone,
Intent upon that uncorrupted face,
Entranced except his moving lips alone:
I glided with hushed footsteps from the place.
This was the festival that filled with light
That palace in the City of the Night.
XI
What men are they who haunt these fatal glooms,
And fill their living mouths with dust of death,
And make their habitations in the tombs,
And breathe eternal sighs with mortal breath,
And pierce life's pleasant veil of various error
To reach that void of darkness and old terror
Wherein expire the lamps of hope and faith?
They have much wisdom yet they are not wise,
They have much goodness yet they do not well,
(The fools we know have their own paradise,
The wicked also have their proper Hell);
They have much strength but still their doom is stronger,
Much patience but their time endureth longer,
Much valour but life mocks it with some spell.
They are most rational and yet insane:
And outward madness not to be controlled;
A perfect reason in the central brain,
Which has no power, but sitteth wan and cold,
And sees the madness, and foresees as plainly
The ruin in its path, and trieth vainly
To cheat itself refusing to behold.
And some are great in rank and wealth and power,
And some renowned for genius and for worth;
And some are poor and mean, who brood and cower
And shrink from notice, and accept all dearth
Of body, heart and soul, and leave to others
All boons of life: yet these and those are brothers,
The saddest and the weariest men on earth.
XII
Our isolated units could be brought
To act together for some common end?
For one by one, each silent with his thought,
I marked a long loose line approach and wend
Athwart the great cathedral's cloistered square,
And slowly vanish from the moonlit air.
Then I would follow in among the last:
And in the porch a shrouded figure stood,
Who challenged each one pausing ere he passed,
With deep eyes burning through a blank white hood:
Whence come you in the world of life and light
To this our City of Tremendous Night?--
From pleading in a senate of rich lords
For some scant justice to our countless hordes
Who toil half-starved with scarce a human right:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From wandering through many a solemn scene
Of opium visions, with a heart serene
And intellect miraculously bright:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From making hundreds laugh and roar with glee
By my transcendent feats of mimicry,
And humour wanton as an elvish sprite:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From prayer and fasting in a lonely cell,
Which brought an ecstasy ineffable
Of love and adoration and delight:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From ruling on a splendid kingly throne
A nation which beneath my rule has grown
Year after year in wealth and arts and might:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From preaching to an audience fired with faith
The Lamb who died to save our souls from death,
Whose blood hath washed our scarlet sins wool-white:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From drinking fiery poison in a den
Crowded with tawdry girls and squalid men,
Who hoarsely laugh and curse and brawl and fight:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From picturing with all beauty and all grace
First Eden and the parents of our race,
A luminous rapture unto all men's sight:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From writing a great work with patient plan
To justify the ways of God to man,
And show how ill must fade and perish quite:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
From desperate fighting with a little band
Against the powerful tyrants of our land,
To free our brethren in their own despite:
I wake from daydreams to this real night.
Thus, challenged by that warder sad and stern,
Each one responded with his countersign,
Then entered the cathedral; and in turn
I entered also, having given mine;
But lingered near until I heard no more,
And marked the closing of the massive door.
XIII
Of all things human which are strange and wild
This is perchance the wildest and most strange,
And showeth man most utterly beguiled,
To those who haunt that sunless City's range;
That he bemoans himself for aye, repeating
How Time is deadly swift, how life is fleeting,
How naught is constant on the earth but change.
The hours are heavy on him and the days;
The burden of the months he scarce can bear;
And often in his secret soul he prays
To sleep through barren periods unaware,
Arousing at some longed-for date of pleasure;
Which having passed and yielded him small treasure,
He would outsleep another term of care.
Yet in his marvellous fancy he must make
Quick wings for Time, and see it fly from us;
This Time which crawleth like a monstrous snake,
Wounded and slow and very venomous;
Which creeps blindwormlike round the earth and ocean,
Distilling poison at each painful motion,
And seems condemned to circle ever thus.
And since he cannot spend and use aright
The little time here given him in trust,
But wasteth it in weary undelight
Of foolish toil and trouble, strife and lust,
He naturally claimeth to inherit
The everlasting Future, that his merit
May have full scope; as surely is most just.
O length of the intolerable hours,
O nights that are as aeons of slow pain,
O Time, too ample for our vital powers,
O Life, whose woeful vanities remain
Immutable for all of all our legions
Through all the centuries and in all the regions,
Not of your speed and variance WE complain.
WE do not ask a longer term of strife,
Weakness and weariness and nameless woes;
We do not claim renewed and endless life
When this which is our torment here shall close,
An everlasting conscious inanition!
We yearn for speedy death in full fruition,
Dateless oblivion and divine repose.
XIV
Large glooms were gathered in the mighty fane,
With tinted moongleams slanting here and there;
And all was hush: no swelling organ-strain,
No chant, no voice or murmuring of prayer;
No priests came forth, no tinkling censers fumed,
And the high altar space was unillumed.
Around the pillars and against the walls
Leaned men and shadows; others seemed to brood
Bent or recumbent in secluded stalls.
Perchance they were not a great multitude
Save in that city of so lonely streets
Where one may count up every face he meets.
All patiently awaited the event
Without a stir or sound, as if no less
Self-occupied, doomstricken while attent.
And then we heard a voice of solemn stress
From the dark pulpit, and our gaze there met
Two eyes which burned as never eyes burned yet:
Two steadfast and intolerable eyes
Burning beneath a broad and rugged brow;
The head behind it of enormous size.
And as black fir-groves in a large wind bow,
Our rooted congregation, gloom-arrayed,
By that great sad voice deep and full were swayed:--
O melancholy Brothers, dark, dark, dark!
O battling in black floods without an ark!
O spectral wanderers of unholy Night!
My soul hath bled for you these sunless years,
With bitter blood-drops running down like tears:
Oh dark, dark, dark, withdrawn from joy and light!
My heart is sick with anguish for your bale;
Your woe hath been my anguish; yea, I quail
And perish in your perishing unblest.
And I have searched the highths and depths, the scope
Of all our universe, with desperate hope
To find some solace for your wild unrest.
And now at last authentic word I bring,
Witnessed by every dead and living thing;
Good tidings of great joy for you, for all:
There is no God; no Fiend with names divine
Made us and tortures us; if we must pine,
It is to satiate no Being's gall.
It was the dark delusion of a dream,
That living Person conscious and supreme,
Whom we must curse for cursing us with life;
Whom we must curse because the life he gave
Could not be buried in the quiet grave,
Could not be killed by poison or the knife.
This little life is all we must endure,
The grave's most holy peace is ever sure,
We fall asleep and never wake again;
Nothing is of us but the mouldering flesh,
Whose elements dissolve and merge afresh
In earth, air, water, plants, and other men.
We finish thus; and all our wretched race
Shall finish with its cycle, and give place
To other beings with their own time-doom:
Infinite aeons ere our kind began;
Infinite aeons after the last man
Has joined the mammoth in earth's tomb and womb.
We bow down to the universal laws,
Which never had for man a special clause
Of cruelty or kindness, love or hate:
If toads and vultures are obscene to sight,
If tigers burn with beauty and with might,
Is it by favour or by wrath of Fate?
All substance lives and struggles evermore
Through countless shapes continually at war,
By countless interactions interknit:
If one is born a certain day on earth,
All times and forces tended to that birth,
Not all the world could change or hinder it.
I find no hint throughout the Universe
Of good or ill, of blessing or of curse;
I find alone Necessity Supreme;
With infinite Mystery, abysmal, dark,
Unlighted ever by the faintest spark
For us the flitting shadows of a dream.
O Brothers of sad lives! they are so brief;
A few short years must bring us all relief:
Can we not bear these years of laboring breath?
But if you would not this poor life fulfil,
Lo, you are free to end it when you will,
Without the fear of waking after death.--
The organ-like vibrations of his voice
Thrilled through the vaulted aisles and died away;
The yearning of the tones which bade rejoice
Was sad and tender as a requiem lay:
Our shadowy congregation rested still
As brooding on that "End it when you will."
XV
Wherever men are gathered, all the air
Is charged with human feeling, human thought;
Each shout and cry and laugh, each curse and prayer,
Are into its vibrations surely wrought;
Unspoken passion, wordless meditation,
Are breathed into it with our respiration
It is with our life fraught and overfraught.
So that no man there breathes earth's simple breath,
As if alone on mountains or wide seas;
But nourishes warm life or hastens death
With joys and sorrows, health and foul disease,
Wisdom and folly, good and evil labours,
Incessant of his multitudinous neighbors;
He in his turn affecting all of these.
That City's atmosphere is dark and dense,
Although not many exiles wander there,
With many a potent evil influence,
Each adding poison to the poisoned air;
Infections of unutterable sadness,
Infections of incalculable madness,
Infections of incurable despair.
XVI
Our shadowy congregation rested still,
As musing on that message we had heard
And brooding on that "End it when you will;"
Perchance awaiting yet some other word;
When keen as lightning through a muffled sky
Sprang forth a shrill and lamentable cry:--
The man speaks sooth, alas! the man speaks sooth:
We have no personal life beyond the grave;
There is no God; Fate knows nor wrath nor ruth:
Can I find here the comfort which I crave?
In all eternity I had one chance,
One few years' term of gracious human life:
The splendours of the intellect's advance,
The sweetness of the home with babes and wife;
The social pleasures with their genial wit:
The fascination of the worlds of art,
The glories of the worlds of nature, lit
By large imagination's glowing heart;
The rapture of mere being, full of health;
The careless childhood and the ardent youth,
The strenuous manhood winning various wealth,
The reverend age serene with life's long truth:
All the sublime prerogatives of Man;
The storied memories of the times of old,
The patient tracking of the world's great plan
Through sequences and changes myriadfold.
This chance was never offered me before;
For me this infinite Past is blank and dumb:
This chance recurreth never, nevermore;
Blank, blank for me the infinite To-come.
And this sole chance was frustrate from my birth,
A mockery, a delusion; and my breath
Of noble human life upon this earth
So racks me that I sigh for senseless death.
My wine of life is poison mixed with gall,
My noonday passes in a nightmare dream,
I worse than lose the years which are my all:
What can console me for the loss supreme?
Speak not of comfort where no comfort is,
Speak not at all: can words make foul things fair?
Our life's a cheat, our death a black abyss:
Hush and be mute envisaging despair.--
This vehement voice came from the northern aisle
Rapid and shrill to its abrupt harsh close;
And none gave answer for a certain while,
For words must shrink from these most wordless woes;
At last the pulpit speaker simply said,
With humid eyes and thoughtful drooping head:--
My Brother, my poor Brothers, it is thus;
This life itself holds nothing good for us,
But ends soon and nevermore can be;
And we knew nothing of it ere our birth,
And shall know nothing when consigned to earth:
I ponder these thoughts and they comfort me.
XVII
How the moon triumphs through the endless nights!
How the stars throb and glitter as they wheel
Their thick processions of supernal lights
Around the blue vault obdurate as steel!
And men regard with passionate awe and yearning
The mighty marching and the golden burning,
And think the heavens respond to what they feel.
Boats gliding like dark shadows of a dream
Are glorified from vision as they pass
The quivering moonbridge on the deep black stream;
Cold windows kindle their dead glooms of glass
To restless crystals; cornice dome and column
Emerge from chaos in the splendour solemn;
Like faery lakes gleam lawns of dewy grass.
With such a living light these dead eyes shine,
These eyes of sightless heaven, that as we gaze
We read a pity, tremulous, divine,
Or cold majestic scorn in their pure rays:
Fond man! they are not haughty, are not tender;
There is no heart or mind in all their splendour,
They thread mere puppets all their marvellous maze.
If we could near them with the flight unflown,
We should but find them worlds as sad as this,
Or suns all self-consuming like our own
Enringed by planet worlds as much amiss:
They wax and wane through fusion and confusion;
The spheres eternal are a grand illusion,
The empyrean is a void abyss.
XVIII
I wandered in a suburb of the north,
And reached a spot whence three close lanes led down,
Beneath thick trees and hedgerows winding forth
Like deep brook channels, deep and dark and lown:
The air above was wan with misty light,
The dull grey south showed one vague blur of white.
I took the left-hand path and slowly trod
Its earthen footpath, brushing as I went
The humid leafage; and my feet were shod
With heavy languor, and my frame downbent,
With infinite sleepless weariness outworn,
So many nights I thus had paced forlorn.
After a hundred steps I grew aware
Of something crawling in the lane below;
It seemed a wounded creature prostrate there
That sobbed with pangs in making progress slow,
The hind limbs stretched to push, the fore limbs then
To drag; for it would die in its own den.
But coming level with it I discerned
That it had been a man; for at my tread
It stopped in its sore travail and half-turned,
Leaning upon its right, and raised its head,
And with the left hand twitched back as in ire
Long grey unreverend locks befouled with mire.
A haggard filthy face with bloodshot eyes,
An infamy for manhood to behold.
He gasped all trembling, What, you want my prize?
You leave, to rob me, wine and lust and gold
And all that men go mad upon, since you
Have traced my sacred secret of the clue?
You think that I am weak and must submit
Yet I but scratch you with this poisoned blade,
And you are dead as if I clove with it
That false fierce greedy heart. Betrayed! betrayed!
I fling this phial if you seek to pass,
And you are forthwith shrivelled up like grass.
And then with sudden change, Take thought! take thought!
Have pity on me! it is mine alone.
If you could find, it would avail you naught;
Seek elsewhere on the pathway of your own:
For who of mortal or immortal race
The lifetrack of another can retrace?
Did you but know my agony and toil!
Two lanes diverge up yonder from this lane;
My thin blood marks the long length of their soil;
Such clue I left, who sought my clue in vain:
My hands and knees are worn both flesh and bone;
I cannot move but with continual moan.
But I am in the very way at last
To find the long-lost broken golden thread
Which unites my present with my past,
If you but go your own way. And I said,
I will retire as soon as you have told
Whereunto leadeth this lost thread of gold.
And so you know it not! he hissed with scorn;
I feared you, imbecile! It leads me back
From this accursed night without a morn,
And through the deserts which have else no track,
And through vast wastes of horror-haunted time,
To Eden innocence in Eden's clime:
And I become a nursling soft and pure,
An infant cradled on its mother's knee,
Without a past, love-cherished and secure;
Which if it saw this loathsome present Me,
Would plunge its face into the pillowing breast,
And scream abhorrence hard to lull to rest.
He turned to grope; and I retiring brushed
Thin shreds of gossamer from off my face,
And mused, His life would grow, the germ uncrushed;
He should to antenatal night retrace,
And hide his elements in that large womb
Beyond the reach of man-evolving Doom.
And even thus, what weary way were planned,
To seek oblivion through the far-off gate
Of birth, when that of death is close at hand!
For this is law, if law there be in Fate:
What never has been, yet may have its when;
The thing which has been, never is again.
XIX
The mighty river flowing dark and deep,
With ebb and flood from the remote sea-tides
Vague-sounding through the City's sleepless sleep,
Is named the River of the Suicides;
For night by night some lorn wretch overweary,
And shuddering from the future yet more dreary,
Within its cold secure oblivion hides.
One plunges from a bridge's parapet,
As if by some blind and sudden frenzy hurled;
Another wades in slow with purpose set
Until the waters are above him furled;
Another in a boat with dreamlike motion
Glides drifting down into the desert ocean,
To starve or sink from out the desert world.
They perish from their suffering surely thus,
For none beholding them attempts to save,
The while thinks how soon, solicitous,
He may seek refuge in the self-same wave;
Some hour when tired of ever-vain endurance
Impatience will forerun the sweet assurance
Of perfect peace eventual in the grave.
When this poor tragic-farce has palled us long,
Why actors and spectators do we stay?--
To fill our so-short roles out right or wrong;
To see what shifts are yet in the dull play
For our illusion; to refrain from grieving
Dear foolish friends by our untimely leaving:
But those asleep at home, how blest are they!
Yet it is but for one night after all:
What matters one brief night of dreary pain?
When after it the weary eyelids fall
Upon the weary eyes and wasted brain;
And all sad scenes and thoughts and feelings vanish
In that sweet sleep no power can ever banish,
That one best sleep which never wakes again.
XX
I sat me weary on a pillar's base,
And leaned against the shaft; for broad moonlight
O'erflowed the peacefulness of cloistered space,
A shore of shadow slanting from the right:
The great cathedral's western front stood there,
A wave-worn rock in that calm sea of air.
Before it, opposite my place of rest,
Two figures faced each other, large, austere;
A couchant sphinx in shadow to the breast,
An angel standing in the moonlight clear;
So mighty by magnificence of form,
They were not dwarfed beneath that mass enorm.
Upon the cross-hilt of the naked sword
The angel's hands, as prompt to smite, were held;
His vigilant intense regard was poured
Upon the creature placidly unquelled,
Whose front was set at level gaze which took
No heed of aught, a solemn trance-like look.
And as I pondered these opposed shapes
My eyelids sank in stupor, that dull swoon
Which drugs and with a leaden mantle drapes
The outworn to worse weariness. But soon
A sharp and clashing noise the stillness broke,
And from the evil lethargy I woke.
The angel's wings had fallen, stone on stone,
And lay there shattered; hence the sudden sound:
A warrior leaning on his sword alone
Now watched the sphinx with that regard profound;
The sphinx unchanged looked forthright, as aware
Of nothing in the vast abyss of air.
Again I sank in that repose unsweet,
Again a clashing noise my slumber rent;
The warrior's sword lay broken at his feet:
An unarmed man with raised hands impotent
Now stood before the sphinx, which ever kept
Such mien as if open eyes it slept.
My eyelids sank in spite of wonder grown;
A louder crash upstartled me in dread:
The man had fallen forward, stone on stone,
And lay there shattered, with his trunkless head
Between the monster's large quiescent paws,
Beneath its grand front changeless as life's laws.
The moon had circled westward full and bright,
And made the temple-front a mystic dream,
And bathed the whole enclosure with its light,
The sworded angel's wrecks, the sphinx supreme:
I pondered long that cold majestic face
Whose vision seemed of infinite void space.
XXI
Anear the centre of that northern crest
Stands out a level upland bleak and bare,
From which the city east and south and west
Sinks gently in long waves; and throned there
An Image sits, stupendous, superhuman,
The bronze colossus of a winged Woman,
Upon a graded granite base foursquare.
Low-seated she leans forward massively,
With cheek on clenched left hand, the forearm's might
Erect, its elbow on her rounded knee;
Across a clasped book in her lap the right
Upholds a pair of compasses; she gazes
With full set eyes, but wandering in thick mazes
Of sombre thought beholds no outward sight.
Words cannot picture her; but all men know
That solemn sketch the pure sad artist wrought
Three centuries and threescore years ago,
With phantasies of his peculiar thought:
The instruments of carpentry and science
Scattered about her feet, in strange alliance
With the keen wolf-hound sleeping undistraught;
Scales, hour-glass, bell, and magic-square above;
The grave and solid infant perched beside,
With open winglets that might bear a dove,
Intent upon its tablets, heavy-eyed;
Her folded wings as of a mighty eagle,
But all too impotent to lift the regal
Robustness of her earth-born strength and pride;
And with those wings, and that light wreath which seems
To mock her grand head and the knotted frown
Of forehead charged with baleful thoughts and dreams,
The household bunch of keys, the housewife's gown
Voluminous, indented, and yet rigid
As if a shell of burnished metal frigid,
The feet thick-shod to tread all weakness down;
The comet hanging o'er the waste dark seas,
The massy rainbow curved in front of it
Beyond the village with the masts and trees;
The snaky imp, dog-headed, from the Pit,
Bearing upon its batlike leathern pinions
Her name unfolded in the sun's dominions,
The "MELENCOLIA" that transcends all wit.
Thus has the artist copied her, and thus
Surrounded to expound her form sublime,
Her fate heroic and calamitous;
Fronting the dreadful mysteries of Time,
Unvanquished in defeat and desolation,
Undaunted in the hopeless conflagration
Of the day setting on her baffled prime.
Baffled and beaten back she works on still,
Weary and sick of soul she works the more,
Sustained by her indomitable will:
The hands shall fashion and the brain shall pore,
And all her sorrow shall be turned to labour,
Till Death the friend-foe piercing with his sabre
That mighty heart of hearts ends bitter war.
But as if blacker night could dawn on night,
With tenfold gloom on moonless night unstarred,
A sense more tragic than defeat and blight,
More desperate than strife with hope debarred,
More fatal than the adamantine Never
Encompassing her passionate endeavour,
Dawns glooming in her tenebrous regard:
To sense that every struggle brings defeat
Because Fate holds no prize to crown success;
That all the oracles are dumb or cheat
Because they have no secret to express;
That none can pierce the vast black veil uncertain
Because there is no light beyond the curtain;
That all is vanity and nothingness.
Titanic from her high throne in the north,
That City's sombre Patroness and Queen,
In bronze sublimity she gazes forth
Over her Capital of teen and threne,
Over the river with its isles and bridges,
The marsh and moorland, to the stern rock-ridges,
Confronting them with a coeval mien.
The moving moon and stars from east to west
Circle before her in the sea of air;
Shadows and gleams glide round her solemn rest.
Her subjects often gaze up to her there:
The strong to drink new strength of iron endurance,
The weak new terrors; all, renewed assurance
And confirmation of the old despair.
The stranger came from Narromine and made his little joke--
"They say we folks in Narromine are narrow-minded folk.
But all the smartest men down here are puzzled to define
A kind of new phenomenon that came to Narromine.
"Last summer up in Narromine 'twas gettin' rather warm--
Two hundred in the water bag, and lookin' like a storm--
We all were in the private bar, the coolest place in town,
When out across the stretch of plain a cloud came rollin' down,
"We don't respect the clouds up there, they fill us with disgust,
They mostly bring a Bogan shower -- three raindrops and some dust;
But each man, simultaneous-like, to each man said, 'I think
That cloud suggests it's up to us to have another drink!'
"There's clouds of rain and clouds of dust -- we've heard of them before,
And sometimes in the daily press we read of 'clouds of war':
But -- if this ain't the Gospel truth I hope that I may burst--
That cloud that came to Narromine was just a cloud of thirst.
"It wasn't like a common cloud, 'twas more a sort of haze;
It settled down about the streets, and stopped for days and days,
And now a drop of dew could fall and not a sunbeam shine
To pierce that dismal sort of mist that hung on Narromine.
"Oh, Lord! we had a dreadful time beneath that cloud of thirst!
We all chucked up our daily work and went upon the burst.
The very blacks about the town that used to cadge for grub,
They made an organised attack and tried to loot the pub.
"We couldn't leave the private bar no matter how we tried;
Shearers and squatters, union men and blacklegs side by side
Were drinkin' there and dursn't move, for each was sure, he said,
Before he'd get a half a mile the thirst would strike him dead!
"We drank until the drink gave out, we searched from room to room,
And round the pub, like drunken ghosts, went howling through the gloom.
The shearers found some kerosene and settled down again,
But all the squatter chaps and I, we staggered to the train.
"And, once outside the cloud of thirst, we felt as right as pie,
But while we stopped about the town we had to drink or die.
But now I hear it's safe enough, I'm going back to work
Because they say the cloud of thirst has shifted on to Bourke.
"But when you see these clouds about -- like this one over here--
All white and frothy at the top, just like a pint of beer,
It's time to go and have a drink, for if that cloud should burst
You'd find the drink would all be gone, for that's a cloud of thirst!"
We stood the man from Narromine a pint of half-and-half;
He drank it off without a gasp in one tremendous quaff;
"I joined some friends last night," he said, "in what they called a spree;
But after Narromine 'twas just a holiday to me."
And now beyond the Western Range, where sunset skies are red,
And clouds of dust, and clouds of thirst, go drifting overhead,
The railway train is taking back, along the Western Line,
That narrow-minded person on his road to Narromine.
Would you like to see a city given over,
Soul and body, to a tyrannising game?
If you would, there's little need to be a rover,
For St. Andrews is the abject city's name.
It is surely quite superfluous to mention,
To a person who has been here half an hour,
That Golf is what engrosses the attention
Of the people, with an all-absorbing power.
Rich and poor alike are smitten with the fever;
Their business and religion is to play;
And a man is scarcely deemed a true believer,
Unless he goes at least a round a day.
The city boasts an old and learned college,
Where you'd think the leading industry was Greek;
Even there the favoured instruments of knowledge
Are a driver and a putter and a cleek.
All the natives and the residents are patrons
Of this royal, ancient, irritating sport;
All the old men, all the young men, maids and matrons --
The universal populace, in short.
In the morning, when the feeble light grows stronger,
You may see the players going out in shoals;
And when night forbids their playing any longer,
They tell you how they did the different holes.
Golf, golf, golf -- is all the story!
In despair my overburdened spirit sinks,
Till I wish that every golfer was in glory,
And I pray the sea may overflow the links.
One slender, struggling ray of consolation
Sustains me, very feeble though it be:
There are two who still escape infatuation,
My friend M'Foozle's one, the other's me.
As I write the words, M'Foozle enters blushing,
With a brassy and an iron in his hand ....
This blow, so unexpected and so crushing,
Is more than I am able to withstand.
So now it but remains for me to die, sir.
Stay! There is another course I may pursue --
And perhaps upon the whole it would be wiser --
I will yield to fate and be a golfer too!
Over the edge of the purple down,
Where the single lamplight gleams,
Know ye the road to the Merciful Town
That is hard by the Sea of Dreams--
Where the poor may lay their wrongs away,
And the sick may forget to weep?
But we--pity us! Oh, pity us!
We wakeful; ah, pity us! --
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Weary they turn from the scroll and crown,
Fetter and prayer and plough--
They that go up to the Merciful Town,
For her gates are closing now.
It is their right in the Baths of Night
Body and soul to steep,
But we--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Over the edge of the purple down,
Ere the tender dreams begin,
Look--we may look--at the Merciful Town,
But we may not enter in!
Outcasts all, from her guarded wall
Back to our watch we creep:
We--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We that go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Yesterday I drew myself from the noisome throngs and proceeded into the field until I reached a knoll upon which Nature had spread her comely garments. Now I could breathe.
I looked back, and the city appeared with its magnificent mosques and stately residences veiled by the smoke of the shops.
I commenced analyzing man's mission, but could conclude only that most of his life was identified with struggle and hardship. Then I tried not to ponder over what the sons of Adam had done, and centered my eyes on the field which is the throne of God's glory. In one secluded corner of the field I observed a burying ground surrounded by poplar trees.
There, between the city of the dead and the city of the living, I meditated. I thought of the eternal silence in the first and the endless sorrow in the second.
In the city of the living I found hope and despair; love and hatred, joy and sorrow, wealth and poverty, faith and infidelity.
In the city of the dead there is buried earth in earth that Nature converts, in the night's silence, into vegetation, and then into animal, and then into man. As my mind wandered in this fashion, I saw a procession moving slowly and reverently, accompanied by pieces of music that filled the sky with sad melody. It was an elaborate funeral. The dead was followed by the living who wept and lamented his going. As the cortege reached the place of interment the priests commenced praying and burning incense, and musicians blowing and plucking their instruments, mourning the departed. Then the leaders came forward one after the other and recited their eulogies with fine choice of words.
At last the multitude departed, leaving the dead resting in a most spacious and beautiful vault, expertly designed in stone and iron, and surrounded by the most expensively-entwined wreaths of flowers.
The farewell-bidders returned to the city and I remained, watching them from a distance and speaking softly to myself while the sun was descending to the horizon and Nature was making her many preparations for slumber.
Then I saw two men laboring under the weight of a wooden casket, and behind them a shabby-appearing woman carrying an infant on her arms. Following last was a dog who, with heartbreaking eyes, stared first at the woman and then at the casket.
It was a poor funeral. This guest of Death left to cold society a miserable wife and an infant to share her sorrows and a faithful dog whose heart knew of his companion's departure.
As they reached the burial place they deposited the casket into a ditch away from the tended shrubs and marble stones, and retreated after a few simple words to God. The dog made one last turn to look at his friend's grave as the small group disappeared behind the trees.
I looked at the city of the living and said to myself, "That place belongs to the few." Then I looked upon the trim city of the dead and said, "That place, too, belongs to the few. Oh Lord, where is the haven of all the people?"
As I said this, I looked toward the clouds, mingled with the sun's longest and most beautiful golden rays. And I heard a voice within me saying, "Over there!"
What shall we do, my soul, to please the King?
Seeing he hath no pleasure in the dance,
And hath condemned the honeyed utterance
Of silver flutes and mouths made round to sing.
Along the wall red roses climb and cling,
And oh! my prince, lift up thy countenance,
For there be thoughts like roses that entrance
More than the languors of soft lute-playing.
Think how the hidden things that poets see
In amber eves or mornings crystalline,
Hide in the soul their constant quenchless light,
Till, called by some celestial alchemy,
Out of forgotten depths, they rise and shine
Like buried treasure on Midsummer night.
Cruising these residential Sunday
streets in dry August sunlight:
what offends us is
the sanities:
the houses in pedantic rows, the planted
sanitary trees, assert
levelness of surface like a rebuke
to the dent in our car door.
No shouting here, or
shatter of glass; nothing more abrupt
than the rational whine of a power mower
cutting a straight swath in the discouraged grass.
But though the driveways neatly
sidestep hysteria
by being even, the roofs all display
the same slant of avoidance to the hot sky,
certain things:
the smell of spilled oil a faint
sickness lingering in the garages,
a splash of paint on brick surprising as a bruise,
a plastic hose poised in a vicious
coil; even the too-fixed stare of the wide windows
give momentary access to
the landscape behind or under
the future cracks in the plaster
when the houses, capsized, will slide
obliquely into the clay seas, gradual as glaciers
that right now nobody notices.
That is where the City Planners
with the insane faces of political conspirators
are scattered over unsurveyed
territories, concealed from each other,
each in his own private blizzard;
guessing directions, they sketch
transitory lines rigid as wooden borders
on a wall in the white vanishing air
tracing the panic of suburb
order in a bland madness of snows
When, sick of all the sorrow and distress
That flourished in the City like foul weeds,
I sought blue rivers and green, opulent meads,
And leagues of unregarded loneliness
Whereon no foot of man had seemed to press,
I did not know how great had been my needs,
How wise the woodland's gospels and her creeds,
How good her faith to one long comfortless.
But in the silence came a Voice to me;
In every wind it murmured, and I knew
It would not cease though far my heart might roam.
It called me in the sunrise and the dew,
At noon and twilight, sadly, hungrily,
The jealous City, whispering always -- "Home!"
You said, "I will go to another land, I will go to another sea.
Another city will be found, a better one than this.
Every effort of mine is a condemnation of fate;
and my heart is -- like a corpse -- buried.
How long will my mind remain in this wasteland.
Wherever I turn my eyes, wherever I may look
I see black ruins of my life here,
where I spent so many years destroying and wasting."
You will find no new lands, you will find no other seas.
The city will follow you. You will roam the same
streets. And you will age in the same neighborhoods;
and you will grow gray in these same houses.
Always you will arrive in this city. Do not hope for any other --
There is no ship for you, there is no road.
As you have destroyed your life here
in this little corner, you have ruinded it in the entire world.
Climbing the heights of Berkeley
Nightly I watch the West.
There lies new San Francisco,
Sea-maid in purple dressed,
Wearing a dancer's girdle
All to inflame desire:
Scorning her days of sackcloth,
Scorning her cleansing fire.
See, like a burning city
Sets now the red sun's dome.
See, mystic firebrands sparkle
There on each store and home.
See how the golden gateway
Burns with the day to be —
Torch-bearing fiends of portent
Loom o'er the earth and sea.
Not by the earthquake daunted
Nor by new fears made tame,
Painting her face and laughing
Plays she a new-found game.
Here on her half-cool cinders
'Frisco abides in mirth,
Planning the wildest splendor
Ever upon the earth.
Here on this crumbling rock-ledge
'Frisco her all will stake,
Blowing her bubble-towers,
Swearing they will not break,
Rearing her Fair transcendent,
Singing with piercing art,
Calling to Ancient Asia,
Wooing young Europe's heart.
Here where her God has scourged her
Wantoning, singing sweet:
Waiting her mad bad lovers
Here by the judgment-seat!
'Frisco, God's doughty foeman,
Scorns and blasphemes him strong.
Tho' he again should smite her
She would not slack her song.
Nay, she would shriek and rally —
'Frisco would ten times rise!
Not till her last tower crumbles,
Not till her last rose dies,
Not till the coast sinks seaward,
Not till the cold tides beat
Over the high white Shasta,
'Frisco will cry defeat.
God loves this rebel city,
Loves foemen brisk and game,
Tho', just to please the angels,
He may send down his flame.
God loves the golden leopard
Tho' he may spoil her lair.
God smites, yet loves the lion.
God makes the panther fair.
Dance then, wild guests of 'Frisco,
Yellow, bronze, white and red!
Dance by the golden gateway —
Dance, tho' he smite you dead!
DARK to me is the earth. Dark to me are the heavens.
Where is she that I loved, the woman with eyes like stars?
Desolate are the streets. Desolate is the city.
A city taken by storm, where none are left but the slain.
Sadly I rose at dawn, undid the latch of my shutters,
Thinking to let in light, but I only let in love.
Birds in the boughs were awake; I listen'd to their chaunting;
Each one sang to his love; only I was alone.
This, I said in my heart, is the hour of life and of pleasure.
Now each creature on earth has his joy, and lives in the sun,
Each in another's eyes finds light, the light of compassion,
This is the moment of pity, this is the moment of love.
Speak, O desolate city! Speak, O silence in sadness!
Where is she that I loved in my strength, that spoke to my soul?
Where are those passionate eyes that appeal'd to my eyes in passion?
Where is the mouth that kiss'd me, the breast I laid to my own?
Speak, thou soul of my soul, for rage in my heart is kindled.
Tell me, where didst thou flee in the day of destruction and fear?
See, my arms still enfold thee, enfolding thus all heaven,
See, my desire is fulfill'd in thee, for it fills the earth.
Thus in my grief I lamented. Then turn'd I from the window,
Turn'd to the stair, and the open door, and the empty street,
Crying aloud in my grief, for there was none to chide me,
None to mock my weakness, none to behold my tears.
Groping I went, as blind. I sought her house, my beloved's.
There I stopp'd at the silent door, and listen'd and tried the
latch.
Love, I cried, dost thou slumber? This is no hour for slumber,
This is the hour of love, and love I bring in my hand.
I knew the house, with its windows barr'd, and its leafless fig-tree,
Climbing round by the doorstep, the only one in the street;
I knew where my hope had climb'd to its goal and there encircled
All that those desolate walls once held, my beloved's heart.
There in my grief she consoled me. She loved me when I loved not.
She put her hand in my hand, and set her lips to my lips.
She told me all her pain and show'd me all her trouble.
I, like a fool, scarce heard, hardly return'd her kiss.
Love, thy eyes were like torches. They changed as I beheld them.
Love, thy lips were like gems, the seal thou settest on my life.
Love, if I loved not then, behold this hour thy vengeance;
This is the fruit of thy love and thee, the unwise grown wise.
Weeping strangled my voice. I call'd out, but none answer'd;
Blindly the windows gazed back at me, dumbly the door;
See whom I love, who loved me, look'd not on my yearning,
Gave me no more her hands to kiss, show'd me no more her soul.
Therefore the earth is dark to me, the sunlight blackness,
Therefore I go in tears and alone, by night and day;
Therefore I find no love in heaven, no light, no beauty,
A heaven taken by storm, where none are left but the slain!
I know a girl from Cebu City
I have never met her but I know of her
through her lover… a much older man
who lives in my city.
She is much younger
very beautiful… a bit like a child
He has arranged for her to come for an
extended visit
He is worried that people might think
he has bought and paid for her, lest
her feelings be hurt
I say she is too young to understand…
He says he will throw money at the problem
and take her here and there, spoil her,
buy her things…
only to take her mind off things, of course…
I think it is ironic that this girl will go back
to Cebu City with more possessions
thinking herself richer for the experience –
not having been bought and paid for, of course…
and that this man from my city will be
all the poorer for his judgment….
for buying the paper queen
a heart of stone.
Over the darkened city, the city of towers,
The city of a thousand gates,
Over the gleaming terraced roofs, the huddled towers,
Over a somnolent whisper of loves and hates,
The slow wind flows, drearily streams and falls,
With a mournful sound down rain-dark walls.
On one side purples the lustrous dusk of the sea,
And dreams in white at the city's feet;
On one side sleep the plains, with heaped-up hills.
Oaks and beeches whisper in rings about it.
Above the trees are towers where dread bells beat.
The fisherman draws his streaming net from the sea
And sails toward the far-off city, that seems
Like one vague tower.
The dark bow plunges to foam on blue-black waves,
And shrill rain seethes like a ghostly music about him
In a quiet shower.
Rain with a shrill sings on the lapsing waves;
Rain thrills over the roofs again;
Like a shadow of shifting silver it crosses the city;
The lamps in the streets are streamed with rain;
And sparrows complain beneath deep eaves,
And among whirled leaves
The sea-gulls, blowing from tower to lower tower,
From wall to remoter wall,
Skim with the driven rain to the rising sea-sound
And close grey wings and fall . . .
. . . Hearing great rain above me, I now remember
A girl who stood by the door and shut her eyes:
Her pale cheeks glistened with rain, she stood and shivered.
Into a forest of silver she vanished slowly . . .
Voices about me rise . . .
Voices clear and silvery, voices of raindrops,—
'We struck with silver claws, we struck her down.
We are the ghosts of the singing furies . . . '
A chorus of elfin voices blowing about me
Weaves to a babel of sound.  Each cries a secret.
I run among them, reach out vain hands, and drown.
'I am the one who stood beside you and smiled,
Thinking your face so strangely young . . . '
'I am the one who loved you but did not dare.'
'I am the one you followed through crowded streets,
The one who escaped you, the one with red-gleamed hair.'
'I am the one you saw to-day, who fell
Senseless before you, hearing a certain bell:
A bell that broke great memories in my brain.'
'I am the one who passed unnoticed before you,
Invisible, in a cloud of secret pain.'
'I am the one who suddenly cried, beholding
The face of a certain man on the dazzling screen.
They wrote me that he was dead.  It was long ago.
I walked in the streets for a long while, hearing nothing,
And returned to see it again.  And it was so.'
Weave, weave, weave, you streaks of rain!
I am dissolved and woven again . . .
Thousands of faces rise and vanish before me.
Thousands of voices weave in the rain.
'I am the one who rode beside you, blinking
At a dazzle of golden lights.
Tempests of music swept me: I was thinking
Of the gorgeous promise of certain nights:
Of the woman who suddenly smiled at me this day,
Smiled in a certain delicious sidelong way,
And turned, as she reached the door,
To smile once more . . .
Her hands are whiter than snow on midnight water.
Her throat is golden and full of golden laughter,
Her eyes are strange as the stealth of the moon
On a night in June . . .
She runs among whistling leaves; I hurry after;
She dances in dreams over white-waved water;
Her body is white and fragrant and cool,
Magnolia petals that float on a white-starred pool . . .
I have dreamed of her, dreaming for many nights
Of a broken music and golden lights,
Of broken webs of silver, heavily falling
Between my hands and their white desire:
And dark-leaved boughs, edged with a golden radiance,
Dipping to screen a fire . . .
I dream that I walk with her beneath high trees,
But as I lean to kiss her face,
She is blown aloft on wind, I catch at leaves,
And run in a moonless place;
And I hear a crashing of terrible rocks flung down,
And shattering trees and cracking walls,
And a net of intense white flame roars over the town,
And someone cries; and darkness falls . . .
But now she has leaned and smiled at me,
My veins are afire with music,
Her eyes have kissed me, my body is turned to light;
I shall dream to her secret heart tonight . . . '
He rises and moves away, he says no word,
He folds his evening paper and turns away;
I rush through the dark with rows of lamplit faces;
Fire bells peal, and some of us turn to listen,
And some sit motionless in their accustomed places.
Cold rain lashes the car-roof, scurries in gusts,
Streams down the windows in waves and ripples of lustre;
The lamps in the streets are distorted and strange.
Someone takes his watch from his pocket and yawns.
One peers out in the night for the place to change.
Rain . . . rain . . . rain . . . we are buried in rain,
It will rain forever, the swift wheels hiss through water,
Pale sheets of water gleam in the windy street.
The pealing of bells is lost in a drive of rain-drops.
Remote and hurried the great bells beat.
'I am the one whom life so shrewdly betrayed,
Misfortune dogs me, it always hunted me down.
And to-day the woman I love lies dead.
I gave her roses, a ring with opals;
These hands have touched her head.
'I bound her to me in all soft ways,
I bound her to me in a net of days,
Yet now she has gone in silence and said no word.
How can we face these dazzling things, I ask you?
There is no use: we cry: and are not heard.
'They cover a body with roses . . . I shall not see it . . .
Must one return to the lifeless walls of a city
Whose soul is charred by fire? . . . '
His eyes are closed, his lips press tightly together.
Wheels hiss beneath us.  He yields us our desire.
'No, do not stare so—he is weak with grief,
He cannot face you, he turns his eyes aside;
He is confused with pain.
I suffered this.  I know.  It was long ago . . .
He closes his eyes and drowns in death again.'
The wind hurls blows at the rain-starred glistening windows,
The wind shrills down from the half-seen walls.
We flow on the mournful wind in a dream of dying;
And at last a silence falls.
A BROADSIDE DISTRIBUTED IN SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS
Censers are swinging,
Over the town;
Censers are swinging,
Look overhead!
Censers are swinging,
Heaven comes down.
City, dead city,
Awake from the dead!
Censers, tremendous,
Gleam overhead.
Wind-harps are ringing,
Wind-harps unseen—
Calling and calling:—
"Wake from the dead.
Rise, little city,
Shine like a queen."
Soldiers of Christ
For battle grow keen.
Heaven-sent winds
Haunt alley and lane.
Singing of life
In town-meadows green
After the toil
And battle and pain.
Incense is pouring
Like the spring rain
Down on the mob
That moil through the street.
Blessed are they
Who behold it and gain
Power made more mighty
Thro' every defeat.
Builders, toil on.
Make all complete.
Make Springfield wonderful.
Make her renown
Worthy this day,
Till, at God's feet,
Tranced, saved forever,
Waits the white town.
Censers are swinging
Over the town,
Censers gigantic!
Look overhead!
Hear the winds singing:—
"Heaven comes down.
City, dead city,
Awake from the dead."
I will not toy with it nor bend an inch.
Deep in the secret chambers of my heart
I muse my life-long hate, and without flinch
I bear it nobly as I live my part.
My being would be a skeleton, a shell,
If this dark Passion that fills my every mood,
And makes my heaven in the white world's hell,
Did not forever feed me vital blood.
I see the mighty city through a mist--
The strident trains that speed the goaded mass,
The poles and spires and towers vapor-kissed,
The fortressed port through which the great ships pass,
The tides, the wharves, the dens I contemplate,
Are sweet like wanton loves because I hate.
You can rock to Elvis Presley,
You can Jam to ZZ top, you can bop
To Carl Perkins, you can dance to
Credence and rock. But when it comes
To music this city boy loves country.
You can make love to the platters,
You can croon with Franky boy.
You can shake with little Richard,
Or sing the blues with Benny King.
But when it comes to music,
This city boy loves country.
You can cry to Barbara Streisand,
You can laugh to Roger Miller,
You can go way back with Jolson
Or keep up with M.T.V.
But when it comes to music
This city boy loves country.
This city
Is vastly plagued with loneliness.
I’m looking for Van Morrison’s
Brown-eyed girl
And I cry at the sight
Of every ponytail.
I believe in a higher love
But everyone
Is too busy seeking
Money pursuits on glittering streets
Of superficiality.
Where is the delicate hand
That will hold mine and pray with me
By the mountain’s waterfall
Which weeps for genuine kindness?
To one who has been long in city pent,
'Tis very sweet to look into the fair
And open face of heaven,--to breathe a prayer
Full in the smile of the blue firmament.
Who is more happy, when, with heart's content,
Fatigued he sinks into some pleasant lair
Of wavy grass, and reads a debonair
And gentle tale of love and languishment?
Returning home at evening, with an ear
Catching the notes of Philomel,--an eye
Watching the sailing cloudlet's bright career,
He mourns that day so soon has glided by:
E'en like the passage of an angel's tear
That falls through the clear ether silently.
The Cities are full of pride,
Challenging each to each --
This from her mountain-side,
That from her burthened beach.
They count their ships full tale --
Their corn and oil and wine,
Derrick and loom and bale,
And rampart's gun-flecked line;
City by City they hail:
"Hast aught to match with mine?"
And the men that breed from them
They traffic up and down,
But cling to their cities' hem
As a child to their mother's gown.
When they talk with the stranger bands,
Dazed and newly alone;
When they walk in the stranger lands,
By roaring streets unknown;
Blessing her where she stands
For strength above their own.
(On high to hold her fame
That stands all fame beyond,
By oath to back the same,
Most faithful-foolish-fond;
Making her mere-breathed name
Their bond upon their bond.)
So thank I God my birth
Fell not in isles aside --
Waste headlands of the earth,
Or warring tribes untried --
But that she lent me worth
And gave me right to pride.
Surely in toil or fray
Under an alien sky,
Comfort it is to say:
"Of no mean city am I!"
(Neither by service nor fee
Come I to mine estate --
Mother of Cities to me,
For I was born in her gate,
Between the palms and the sea,
Where the world-end steamers wait.)
Now for this debt I owe,
And for her far-borne cheer
Must I make haste and go
With tribute to her pier.
And she shall touch and remit
After the use of kings
(Orderly, ancient, fit)
My deep-sea plunderings,
And purchase in all lands.
And this we do for a sign
Her power is over mine,
And mine I hold at her hands!
London, thou art of town{.e}s A per se.
Soveraign of cities, semeliest in sight,
Of high renoun, riches, and royaltie;
Of lordis, barons, and many goodly knyght;
Of most delectable lusty ladies bright;
Of famous prelatis in habitis clericall;
Of merchauntis full of substaunce and myght:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Gladdith anon, thou lusty Troy Novaunt,
Citie that some tyme cleped was New Troy,
In all the erth, imperiall as thou stant,
Pryncesse of townes, of pleasure, and of joy,
A richer restith under no Christen roy;
For manly power, with craftis naturall,
Fourmeth none fairer sith the flode of Noy:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Gemme of all joy, jasper of jocunditie,
Most myghty carbuncle of vertue and valour;
Strong Troy in vigour and in strenuytie;
Of royall cities rose and geraflour;
Empresse of town{.e}s, exalt in honour;
In beawtie beryng the crone imperiall;
Swete paradise precelling in pleasure:
London, thow art the floure of Cities all.
Above all ryvers thy Ryver hath renowne,
Whose beryall stremys, pleasaunt and preclare,
Under thy lusty wallys renneth down,
Where many a swanne doth swymme with wyngis fare;
Where many a barge doth saile, and row with are,
Where many a ship doth rest with toppe-royall.
O! towne of townes, patrone and not-compare:
London, thou art the floure of Cities all.
Upon thy lusty Brigge of pylers white
Been merchauntis full royall to behold;
Upon thy stretis goth many a semely knyght
In velvet gownes and cheyn{.e}s of fyne gold.
By Julyus Cesar thy Tour founded of old
May be the hous of Mars victoryall,
Whos artillary with tonge may not be told:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
Strong be thy wallis that about the standis;
Wise be the people that within the dwellis;
Fresh is thy ryver with his lusty strandis;
Blith be thy chirches, wele sownyng be thy bellis;
Riche be thy merchauntis in substaunce that excellis;
Fair be thy wives, right lovesom, white and small;
Clere be thy virgyns, lusty under kellis:
London, thow art the flour of Cities all.
Thy famous Maire, by pryncely governaunce,
With swerd of justice the rulith prudently.
No Lord of Parys, Venyce, or Floraunce
In dignytie or honoure goeth to hym nye.
He is exampler, lood{.e}-ster, and guye;
Principall patrone and roose orygynalle,
Above all Maires as maister moost worthy:
London, thou art the flour of Cities all.
New York City Central Park
on the ice skating rink
two  teenage girls steal the show
Modeled after the gardens and parks of Paris and London, New York City's Central Park was the country's first landscaped public park when it opened in 1859. A welcome breather from the bustling, crowded city streets, the 843-acre park is home to a zoo, boathouse, carousel, outdoor theater, wildlife sanctuary, and two ice-skating rinks—all among picturesque fountains, bridges, statues, and ponds. Get active and go climbing on the schist boulders throughout the park; jog, bike, or rollerblade along six-mile Park Drive; or get a game going at the tennis courts, basketball courts, or baseball fields.
Had I but plenty of money, money enough and to spare,
The house for me, no doubt, were a house in the city-square;
Ah, such a life, such a life, as one leads at the window there!
Something to see, by Bacchus, something to hear, at least!
There, the whole day long, one's life is a perfect feast;
While up at a villa one lives, I maintain it, no more than a beast.
Well now, look at our villa! stuck like the horn of a bull
Just on a mountain-edge as bare as the creature's skull,
Save a mere shag of a bush with hardly a leaf to pull!
--I scratch my own, sometimes, to see if the hair's turned wool.
But the city, oh the city--the square with the houses! Why?
They are stone-faced, white as a curd, there's something to take the eye!
Houses in four straight lines, not a single front awry;
You watch who crosses and gossips, who saunters, who hurries by;
Green blinds, as a matter of course, to draw when the sun gets high;
And the shops with fanciful signs which are painted properly.
What of a villa? Though winter be over in March by rights,
'Tis May perhaps ere the snow shall have withered well off the heights:
You've the brown ploughed land before, where the oxen steam and wheeze,
And the hills over-smoked behind by the faint gray olive-trees.
Is it better in May, I ask you? You've summer all at once;
In a day he leaps complete with a few strong April suns.
'Mid the sharp short emerald wheat, scarce risen three fingers well,
The wild tulip, at end of its tube, blows out its great red bell
Like a thin clear bubble of blood, for the children to pick and sell.
Is it ever hot in the square? There's a fountain to spout and splash!
In the shade it sings and springs: in the shine such foambows flash
On the horses with curling fish-tails, that prance and paddle and pash
Round the lady atop in her conch--fifty gazers do not abash,
Though all that she wears is some weeds round her waist in a sort of sash.
All the year long at the villa, nothing to see though you linger,
Except yon cypress that points like death's lean lifted forefinger.
Some think fireflies pretty, when they mix in the corn and mingle,
Or thrid the stinking hemp till the stalks of it seem a-tingle.
Late August or early September, the stunning cicala is shrill,
And the bees keep their tiresome whine round the resinous firs on the hill.
Enough of the seasons,--I spare you the months of the fever and chill.
Ere you open your eyes in the city, the blessed church-bells begin:
No sooner the bells leave off than the diligence rattles in:
You get the pick of the news, and it costs you never a pin.
By and by there's the travelling doctor gives pills, lets blood, draws teeth;
Or the Pulcinello-trumpet breaks up the market beneath.
At the post-office such a scene-picture--the new play, piping hot!
And a notice how, only this morning, three liberal thieves were shot.
Above it, behold the Archbishop's most fatherly of rebukes,
And beneath, with his crown and his lion, some little new law of the Duke's!
Or a sonnet with flowery marge, to the Reverend Don So-and so,
Who is Dante, Boccaccio, Petrarca, Saint Jerome and Cicero,
"And moreover," (the sonnet goes rhyming,) "the skirts of Saint Paul has reached,
Having preached us those six Lent-lectures more unctuous than ever he preached."
Noon strikes,--here sweeps the procession! our Lady borne smiling and smart
With a pink gauze gown all spangles, and seven swords stuck in her heart!
Bang-whang-whang goes the drum, tootle-te-tootle the fife.
No keeping one's haunches still: it's the greatest pleasure in life.
But bless you, it's dear--it's dear! fowls, wine, at double the rate.
They have clapped a new tax upon salt, and what oil pays passing the gate
It's a horror to think of. And so, the villa for me, not the city!
Beggars can scarcely be choosers: but still--ah, the pity, the pity!
Look, two and two go the priests, then the monks with cowls and sandals,
And the penitents dressed in white shirts a-holding the yellow candles;
One, he carries a flag up straight, and another a cross with handles.
And the Duke's guard brings up the rear, for the better prevention of scandals:
Bang-whang-whang goes the drum, tootle-te-tootle the fife;
Oh, a day in the city-square, there is no such pleasure in life!
Could I walk this city
every day
and never find the same place twice?
Could I find myself in that
new location?
Take the risk
you remember forever.
The significant moment.
The highlighted text.
Light drunkenly reels into shadow;
Blurs, slurs uneasily;
Slides off the eyeballs:
The segments shatter.
Tree-branches cut arc-light in ragged
Fluttering wet strips.
The cup of the sky-sign is filled too full;
It slushes wine over.
The street-lamps dance a tarentella
And zigzag down the street:
They lift and fly away
In a wind of lights.
The tired cars go grumbling by,
The moaning, groaning cars,
And the old milk carts go rumbling by
Under the same dull stars.
Out of the tenements, cold as stone,
Dark figures start for work;
I watch them sadly shuffle on,
'Tis dawn, dawn in New York.
But I would be on the island of the sea,
In the heart of the island of the sea,
Where the cocks are crowing, crowing, crowing,
And the hens are cackling in the rose-apple tree,
Where the old draft-horse is neighing, neighing, neighing,
Out on the brown dew-silvered lawn,
And the tethered cow is lowing, lowing, lowing,
And dear old Ned is braying, braying, braying,
And the shaggy Nannie goat is calling, calling, calling
From her little trampled corner of the long wide lea
That stretches to the waters of the hill-stream falling
Sheer upon the flat rocks joyously!
There, oh, there! on the island of the sea,
There would I be at dawn.
The tired cars go grumbling by,
The crazy, lazy cars,
And the same milk carts go rumbling by
Under the dying stars.
A lonely newsboy hurries by,
Humming a recent ditty;
Red streaks strike through the gray of the sky,
The dawn comes to the city.
But I would be on the island of the sea,
In the heart of the island of the sea,
Where the cocks are crowing, crowing, crowing,
And the hens are cackling in the rose-apple tree,
Where the old draft-horse is neighing, neighing, neighing
Out on the brown dew-silvered lawn,
And the tethered cow is lowing, lowing, lowing,
And dear old Ned is braying, braying, braying,
And the shaggy Nannie goat is calling, calling, calling,
From her little trampled corner of the long wide lea
That stretches to the waters of the hill-stream falling
Sheer upon the flat rocks joyously!
There, oh, there! on the island of the sea,
There I would be at dawn.
Captain, or colonel, or knight in arms,
Whose chance on these defenceless doors may seize,
If deed of honour did thee ever please,
Guard them, and him within protect from harms.
He can requite thee, for he knows the charms
That call fame on such gentle acts as these,
And he can spread thy name o’er lands and seas,
Whatever clime the sun’s bright circle warms.
Lift not thy spear against the Muse’s bower;
The great Emathian conqueror bid spare
The house of Pindarus, when temple and tower
Went to the ground; and the repeated air
Of sad Electra’s Poet had the power
To save the Athenian walls from ruin bare.
The snow is yellow
round the doorway to the pub;
gone, the sound of 'Aaaahh...'
20 seconds of courage is all we need to change the world. Maybe if we all had a little more courage the world would be a happier place.
20 seconds of courage is all we need to tell that someone what you feel for them
20 seconds of courage is all we need to have a happy life
20 seconds of courage is all we need to change the world.
If I had the courage to
Stand tall I would
If I had the courage to
Speak with my tongue freely
Speak of utter truth
I would
If I had the courage to
Fight for my nation
I would
If I had the courage to
Amend broken bridges
I would
If I had the courage to
Deny all false allegations against my bones
I would
I would if I had a chance to
Without being brutally attacked
I would
I'm scared of taking chances,
i'm scared of taking risks,
but a little courage, is all it takes!
i'm afraid of making new friends, thinking they will hurt me, but a little courage is all it takes!
i'm scared of finding love, and get hurt inside, but a little courage is all it takes!
i'm terribly scared of loosing my friends, because they are all i have, all i need, all i ever wanted, all i ever dreamed of, but in this, i don't need courage, because i know that they will always be beside me! ! !
THANKS FRIENDS! !
(this poem is for my friends: Doha, Omar, Nathalie, Dina, Sara, Mohamed, Joseph, Ahmed, Nadine, farah, Alia, Cherifa, Noura, Hossam, Yassin...THANKS FOR BEING MY FRIENDS GUYS! ! !)
Courage is something any one can achieve
It can happen so fast if you just believe
Believe in yourself and you'll be suprised
your more brave then you ever realized
Courage is something hidin inside
It makes you stronger than the highest tide
Courage means you can face your fears
That you're not afraid to shed some tears
In life without fear you can never be brave
You can't rescue a princess if there's no one to save
Life is a balance, like dark and light
There can be no wrong if there is no right
Getting courage isn't to hard to do
Look deep inside and you'll find it too
Courage is standing in the middle of a war zone
Not knowing if you’ll be making it back home
Courage is leaving your loved ones behind
Not knowing for sure if you were seeing them for the last time
Courage is holding the weapon in your hand in a do or die place
Not showing the enemy traces of your fear and despair on your face
Courage is able to sleep at night with one eye open and eye closed
Not knowing if tomorrow, you’ll be the next one not coming home
Courage is reading a letter from a loved one holding back the tears
Remaining strong is your mission and survival becomes your darkest fears
Courage is seeing soldiers die right in front of you
While you are aware that your life is at risk for a mission you were born to do
Courage is being a hero in everyone’s eyes
Whether or not you come out alive
There, you will always and forever remain; a Soldier’s War of Courage…
a thing called courage
it will only open a new page
if i did not cross the oceans
i would have been left alone
i would have been lost
and i wouldn't have seen
what lies beyond the oceans
the road to heaven
is paid with righteousness
for i was lost in the wildness
a thing called courage
that which unleashes you from the cage
the body is just a vehicle
transporting the soul
for there was nobody to love
nobody to console
nobody to talk to
wondering what to do
a thing called courage
it will only open a new page
Why are the woods so alluring? A forest appears
to a young girl one morning as she combs
the dreams out of   her hair. The trees rustle
and whisper, shimmer and hiss. The forest
opens and closes, a door loose on its hinges,
banging in a strong wind. Everything in the dim
kitchen: the basin, the jug, the skillet, the churn,
snickers scornfully. In this way a maiden
is driven toward the dangers of a forest,
but the forest is our subject, not this young girl.
She's glad to lie down with trees towering all around.
A certain euphoria sets in. She feels molecular,
bedeviled, senses someone gently pulling her hair,
tingles with kisses she won't receive for years.
Three felled trees, a sort of chorus, narrate
her thoughts, or rather channel theirs through her,
or rather subject her to their peculiar verbal
restlessness ...    our deepening need for non-being intones
the largest and most decayed tree, mid-sentence.
I'm not one of you squeaks the shattered sapling,
blackened by lightning. Their words become metallic
spangles shivering the air. Will I forget the way home?
the third blurts. Why do I feel like I'm hiding in a giant's nostril?
the oldest prone pine wants to know. Are we being   freed
from matter? the sapling asks. Insects are well-intentioned,
offers the third tree, by way of consolation. Will it grow
impossible to think a thought through to its end? gasps the sapling,
adding in a panicky voice, I'm becoming spongy! The girl
feels her hands attach to some distant body. She rises
to leave, relieved these trees are not talking about her.
Tell me how to overcome this fear
And I will listen and memorise every word.
Point to me the easy solution
But remind me that all great things need courage.
I am afraid of rejection,
Please say that I might be missing True love
And that access to happiness
is not given with out a struggle.
Convince me to hear the weak voice inside me
And not the loud one that is always there,
Help me to become a better listener of myself.
Protect me from comments that
I really don’t need to hear,
Teach me not to be influenced
By people that are more willing to judge
Than understand,
Take my hand and lead me to the pathway
That deep inside I know I should follow.
Blow courage into my face
Until I open my eyes..
Ce qui doit m'étonner excite mon courage,
Et ma témérité me conduit au cercueil ;
Je sers une beauté plus dure qu'un écueil,
Et l'amour se conserve où l'espoir fait naufrage.
Aveugle passion, fureur, manie et rage,
Vous faites que j'adore un insensible orgueil.
Le plus cruel abord est comme un doux accueil,
Et j'appelle un mépris un agréable outrage.
J'ai pour toute faveur, et pour rigueur du sort,
Une peine charmante, une amoureuse mort,
Et je fonde la vie en ce qu'elle a de pire.
Mon astre me réduit à la nécessité
De ne respirer point, alors que je soupire,
Et ma seule douleur est ma félicité.
C for cosmos
C for Christ
C for cerebellum
C for coffin
C for holy Cross
C for clouds
C for courage
April one Cinderella
April 7,2010
The bitter coffee kicked;
I shook and then I licked
My lips and gave a sigh.
Shattered eyes encouraged,
I nearly had envisaged
Waking up an eye.
Another sip; a jolt –
Not unlike a bolt
Of wattage from the mains.
My sockets under strain,
I tried it once again:
Aha! The light, the searing white –
My God, the bloody pain!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
< br>
Courage, courage, coffee courage,
Courage, courage, courage,
Courage, courage, coffee courage,
Courage, courage, courage,
Courage, courage, coffee courage,
Courage, courage, courage,
Courage, courage, coffee courage,
Courage, courage, courage,
baffled, where should i go?
used to be so strong.
used to know what's right from wrong.
gobbled the poison, fought my own premonitions.
how i stayed on track with my faith and my reasons.
The less traveled road is where I am on.
rough and narrow from dusk till dawn.
Stunned by an unforeseen path,
tempting beauty, an extremely fortuitous find..I'm distraught.
Bones shall rest in peace like a stone.
which one shall lead me to thy throne?
i hunger for an unfading glee,
suffocated by the air of melancholy.
Ten little brown chicks scattered and scuffled,
Under the blue-berries hiding in fear;
Mother-grouse cackling, feathers all ruffled,
Dashed to defend them as we drew near.
Heart of a heroine, how I admired her!
Of such devotion great poets have sung;
Homes have been blest by the love that inspired her,
Risking her life for the sake of her young.
Ten little chicks on her valour reliant,
Peered with bright eyes from the bilberry spray;
Fiercely she faced us, dismayed but defiant,
Rushed at us bravely to scare us away.
Then my companion, a crazy young devil
(After, he told me he'd done it for fun)
Pretended to tremble, and raised his arm level,
And ere I could check him he blazed with his gun.
Headless she lay, from her neck the blood spouted,
And dappled her plumage, the poor, pretty thing!
Ten little chicks - oh, I know for I counted,
Came out and they tried to creep under her wing.
Sickened I said: 'Here's an end to my killing;
I swear, nevermore bird or beast will I slay;
Starving I may be, but no more blood-spilling . . .'
That oath I have kept, and I keep it to-day.
God has given courage and boldness
That must certainly be reflected on face
Women of today are by all means capable
Handle the situation and come out as successful
In any situation charm must be retained
Smile on face should never be deserted
If that is allowed then wolves may simply not pounce
Take away flash and enjoy their yield of an ounce
World as such is no safe heaven
For a lady and staying as single woman
People may try to take advantage
Try to inflict injury that may not be worth to mention on page
So it is nice to defend self and get prepared
So no one comes and simply dared
Someone has to take lead and show courage
Whole of the community then may show comeback on stage
Female today is not helpless animal
She has teeth to bite and stand for real trial
What else is needed in real time?
Bit courage, self confidence and presence of mind sometimes
At about 0100 hours,
While I was sleeping,
My phone rang,
A naughty girl asked,
Is your refrigerator running?
I was not fully awaken,
I replied, let me check,
It's running, I said,
Please lock the doors,
Otherwise it will run away.
At this stage I was fully awaken,
I checked the number,
It was stranger to me,
Next day I tried to find out,
As to who was she,
But I failed.
During the night,
I called on that number,
At 1300 hours,
It was busy,
I tried a few more times,
It was busy every time.
Next day in the morning
At 1100 hours,
I dialed that number,
After continuous rings for a few minutes,
The girl attended the call and said,
Hell with Alexander Graham Bell,
You awoke me at the odd hours,
I remained awaken for the whole night,
And now you disturbed me,
Well, who are you?
The same man,
Whom you disturbed,
Yesterday, at 1300 hours,
The real odd hours!
I am sorry.
She disconnected the phone.
The same night,
At 1300 hours,
I received another call,
Budha ghar per hay?
(Is the old man at home?)
Yes but he doesn't want to talk to you,
Why?
He likes to talk with the girls,
Having beauty and charms.
Your complexion is dark,
You are fat like an elephant,
You are too ugly.
How dare you? I am beautiful.
Impossible, a beautiful girl,
Instead of talking on phones,
Talks face to face,
Because she possesses,
Courage and confidence,
That you don't have.
No more calls.
When the burden grows heavy, and rough is the way,
When you falter and slip, and it isn't your day,
And your best doesn't measure to what is required,
When you know in your heart that you're fast growing tired,
With the odds all against you, there's one thing to do:
That is, call on your courage and see the thing through.
Who battles for victory ventures defeat.
Misfortune is something we all have to meet ;
Take the loss with the grace you would take in the gain.
When things go against you, don't whine or complain;
Just call on your courage and grin if you can.
Though you fail to succeed, do not fail as a man.
There are dark days and stormy, which come to us all,
When about us in ruin our hopes seem to fall.
But stand to whatever you happen to meet—
We must all drink the bitter as well as the sweet.
And the test of your courage is: What do you do
In the hour when reverses are coming to you.
Never changed is the battle by curse or regret,
Though you whimper and whine, still the end must be met
And who fights a good fight, though he struggle in vain,
Shall have many a vict'ry to pay for his pain.
So take your reverses as part of the plan
Which God has devised for creating a man.
Fear is imagined spirits
Fear cripples the bold
Fear maligns weak spirits
Fear kills the very soul
Fear breeds more fear
Fear breeds lies
Cowards are born by fear
Fear make dreams die
Courage overcomes fear
Fear accomplishes nothing
Faith stands in the face of fear
The brave make things happen!
5.6.2016
Courage fully
How does only smile?
When you are troubled for a while
You are like any other man
No superman but only human'
You may keep happiness
And show it on face
But no one may notice
As you have your own voice
You may not love
And believe
In exposing woes
As life has many ways
It shows how to live
What to believe
And what to avoid
You can only add woes
So you have to make human efforts
With reports
To almighty daily
To encourage and grant courage fully
ULYSSES, debarking in the Lotos Land,
Struck the one note that the hapless Ithacans
Travel-sick, mazed, bemused, could understand,
And understanding, follow.
'Courage,' he said, 'remember, is not Hope!'
He left the worn, safe ship, spume-stained and hollow.
'To be courageous is to face despair.'
And through the groves and 'thwart the ambient air
Resounded reedy echoes:
'Face despair!'
But this they understood.
And plunging on prepared for best, and most prepared
For worst, found only in their stride
A deep umbrageous wood,
And grassy plains where they disported; eased
And bathed lame feet within a purling stream
And murmured: 'Here, Odysseus, would we fain abide!'
But neither the stream's sweet ease
Nor the shade of the vast beech-trees,
Nor the blessed sense
Of the sweet, sweet soil
Beneath feet salt-cracked and worn
Brought to them even then,
(Still fainting and frayed and forlorn),
Such complete recompense
As the knowledge that once again
Facing the new and untried,
They had kept the courage of men!
Courage in a wheelchair
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
So wonderful this world is
So strange the life is
And so good God is
Her broad smile lights up the stage
Where she dances without legs
Not a story but a fact of one’s life’s page
People say this world is pitiful
But she says it beautiful
On her world frowns
But she takes it smiles of crown
Her hands are now legs
Her body she whirls, curves and shakes
With living music when plays
Looks like lilies in the dew
And daffodils at play
Rain, hail and snow
Will never turn aside
And my disability, she says
Through dance and smile
I can turn aside
Live a graceful life
And God’s judgement I abide
This is courage, very inspiring
Springing forth from great suffering
For after every sunset there’s a dawn fair
And I call it courage in a wheelchair…………..
COURAGE IN OLD AGE IS DIFFICULT
Courage in old age is difficult
But Courage is always difficult
Hope in old age is also difficult
Happiness in old age is not so difficult at times
Courage in old age is what is most needed
Courage against the pain the illness the loss of friends and loved ones
The disabilities
Courage in old age to keep on going
To not lose oneself in depression
Courage to try and not become a burden
Courage to go on as if one were alright
When one knows one is really not
Courage in old age is difficult
But courage we all need
And must try to have.
She kneels, unable to move
As she watches the warm red pour from him
She fights back the tears
But she cannot stop the brewing brim
Eventually the floodgates open
And out rushes the blue
When his heart is finally empty
She thinks what she sees can't be true
She holds her head up high
Resolution in her eye
She leaves him to rest peacefully
In the pool of purple
COURAGE IS HOPE'S LAST FRIEND
Courage is Hope's last  friend
Against all the fear and failing that we know
The inevitable declines and losses of Old Age-
Courage alone
Indifferent to odds and probabilities
Scorning terrible certainties
Can lift us from Doom and Depression
To carrying on for those we love
With dignity
Through the difficult end.
OUT OF COURAGE                                                           A LOT OF BOLD THINGS                                                      COME.                                                                    I DARE TO SAY                                                            THAT'S EVERYTHING                                                          NEEDS A LITTLE BIT                                                         OF COURAGE.                                                               IT'S TO OVERCOME                                                                 ONE'S SELFISH DRIVES.                                                   FIRST AND MOST                                                             COURAGE IS NEEDED.
When Christ prayed in Gethsemane,
His cup to be removed,
He still prayed with humility,
In hope that God approved...
Yet God saw Christ's disciples,
For whom their Lord must die,
With Christ's Scriptures in the Bibles
On which we all rely...
How could He then release His Son
From suffering and death?
How could He stop what must be done
To halt Christ's final breath?
God sent an angel, one alone,
To strengthen Christ again,
That He, by grace, could thus be known
As Christ, the Light of Men...
And thus, the Saviour's tears were wept,
Unseen by friend or foe,
Until He woke the ones who slept,
Fatigued and slow to go...
But then marched Judas, kissed the Lord,
Betrayed Him in that hour,
Despite the folly of reward
That brought no peace or power...
Thus Jesus judged by mortal souls,
Faced persecution's claws,
Submitting to its cruel controls,
Its twisted thoughts and flaws...
To feel the lash repeatedly
Upon His fragile frame,
Delivered then to Calvary
To bear our sinful shame...
The hours passed and darkness fell,
Men cowered in their fear,
As if the whole world went to Hell
With God's wrath oh so near...
Then death for Jesus came at last,
With victory assured,
While those who loved Him looked aghast
As blood from Him outpoured...
His lifeless body taken down,
His eyes closed in respect,
Then they removed the thorny crown,
The symbol of neglect...
Laid in a tomb as prophesied,
Awaiting Sunday's dawn,
God's precious promise, if Christ died,
Salvation would be born...
Fear not, believers, in the know,
God's promises come true,
Though into Earth each man must go,
God's grace is ever new...
The dead shall rise again one day,
The Rapture makes this known,
Then living saints are snatched away,
No more to stand alone...
That's why disciples preach God's grace,
Forgiveness here and now,
If we but look upon Christ's face,
The crown upon His brow...
His battered back, His hands, His feet,
His bloodstained lips and eyes,
We know God's pardon stands complete
If we would just be wise...
Denis Martindale, copyright, May 2013.
.....This is an open statement in response to the recent PoemHunter postings by the anonymous 'Black Alex.'
As a person of color, I've known the ignominy, the humiliation, the vitriolic pain of racism, both in statement and deed.   My years have taught me acceptance, understanding the valued principle of free-speech. However, I do believe that writers..spewing venom..such as this...should dare exercise courage of his/her convictions, and leave  free-speech...unfettered.....by the cowardly cloak of.....anonymity!
Courage is Love
Courage is Strength
The one thing that gives Life more length
Brave as a Knight
Brave as a Mouse
Courage is what gives family more Unity
You do not need a large quantity
But show it protect
Loved ones from fright
Courage is Love
Courage is Strength
Courage is the Light of a Dove
Courage to reason second place must take.
For valour should not balanced judgment shake.
But if both in a hard soul united are,
Then Glory's realms their own demesne shall make.
It was said that courage is the mastery of fear…
But not the total absence of it…
I was afraid to love,
I was afraid of pain.
I was afraid of big responsibilities,
I was afraid of having serious priorities…
I was totally afraid to fall for you.
But I need the guts; I need the courage because I do.
I need the courage to be brave,
To learn to face my life ahead…
The courage to learn to live with you…
And I know…
That the courage and the strength that I need would really comes from you!
-aira
Where do I get the courage?
Where do I get the courage to go on living again?
To come out of my shell?
To pray again?
To smile?
Where do I get the courage to sing again?
Or laugh?
Where do I get the courage to go out again?
To relax again?
To breathe?
Where do I get the courage to love again?
To be free again?
To cook again?
Or look at the blue sky again?
Where do I get the courage to write again?
To wipe out the bad memories?
And put the past behind?
Where do I get the courage to make new friends?
Or watch flowers grow in the garden?
Where do I get the courage to write a letter to you?
To save money again?
Or read books?
I find it
Day by day.
Courage is the price that Life exacts
for granting peace.
The soul that knows it not
Knows no release from little things:
Knows not the livid loneliness of fear,
Nor mountain heights where bitter
joy can hear
The sound of wings.
How can life grant us boon of living,
compensate
For dull gray ugliness and pregnant
hate
Unless we dare
The soul's dominion? Each time we
make a choice, we pay
With courage to behold the resistless
day,
And count it fair.
It is in the small things we see it.
The child's first step,
as awesome as an earthquake.
The first time you rode a bike,
wallowing up the sidewalk.
The first spanking when your heart
went on a journey all alone.
When they called you crybaby
or poor or fatty or crazy
and made you into an alien,
you drank their acid
and concealed it.
Later,
if you faced the death of bombs and bullets
you did not do it with a banner,
you did it with only a hat to
comver your heart.
You did not fondle the weakness inside you
though it was there.
Your courage was a small coal
that you kept swallowing.
If your buddy saved you
and died himself in so doing,
then his courage was not courage,
it was love; love as simple as shaving soap.
Later,
if you have endured a great despair,
then you did it alone,
getting a transfusion from the fire,
picking the scabs off your heart,
then wringing it out like a sock.
Next, my kinsman, you powdered your sorrow,
you gave it a back rub
and then you covered it with a blanket
and after it had slept a while
it woke to the wings of the roses
and was transformed.
Later,
when you face old age and its natural conclusion
your courage will still be shown in the little ways,
each spring will be a sword you'll sharpen,
those you love will live in a fever of love,
and you'll bargain with the calendar
and at the last moment
when death opens the back door
you'll put on your carpet slippers
and stride out.
Courage is the strength to stand up
When it's easier to fall down and lose hold.
It is the conviction to explore new horizons
When it's easier to believe what we've been told.
Courage is the desire to maintain our integrity
When it's easier to look the other way.
It is feeling happy and alive, and moving forward
When it's easier to feel sorry for ourselves and stay.
Courage is the will to shape our world
When it's easier to let someone else do it for us.
It is the recognition that none of us are perfect
When it's easier to criticize others and fuss.
Courage is the power to step forward and lead
When it's easier to follow the crowd; their pleas resound.
It is the spirit that places you on top of the mountain
When it's easier to never leave the ground.
The foundation of courage is solid,
The rock that doesn't roll.
Courage is the freedom
Of our mind, body, and soul!
courage gives you the strength to all weakenesses
courage gives you  a very postive look out on life
courage gives you the strength to move on when you dont know how too
courage what you have when someone tries to bring you down
courage is like a big strength you have to have it in order to live life
Courage to stand out.
Courage to be me.
This courage I wish I had so drastically!
Courage to laugh.
The feeling to be free.
Oh I wish I wish I had this courage inside of me.
Courage to love.
Courage to trust.
To have this courage would be a plus.
Courage to accept I have courage.
This is proven to be;
The hardest courage their could be.
O lonely heart so timid of approach,
Like the shy tropic flower that shuts its lips
To the faint touch of tender finger tips:
What is your word? What question would you broach?
Your lustrous-warm eyes are too sadly kind
To mask the meaning of your dreamy tale,
Your guarded life too exquisitely frail
Against the daggers of my warring mind.
There is no part of the unyielding earth,
Even bare rocks where the eagles build their nest,
Will give us undisturbed and friendly rest.
No dewfall softens this vast belt of dearth.
But in the socket-chiseled teeth of strife,
That gleam in serried files in all the lands,
We may join hungry, understanding hands,
And drink our share of ardent love and life.
Courage is what makes us
Courage is what divides us
Courage is what drives us
Courage is what stops us
Courage creates news
Courage demands more
Courage creates blame
Courage brings shame
Courage shows in school
Courage determines the cool
Courage divides the weak
Courage pours out like a leak
Courage puts us on a knee
Courage makes us free
Courage makes us plea
Courage helps us flee
The courage I need
I need the courage to control my instincts
The courage I need to face my fears
I need the courage to see the future
The courage I need to compare facts and opinion
I need the courage to think right
The courage I need to see if my friends trust me
I need the courage to ask questions
The courage I need to survive
I need the courage to convince myself to do something
I have to prepare myself for any thing that comes up!
Courage isn't a brilliant dash,
A daring deed in a moment's flash;
It isn't an instantaneous thing
Born of despair with a sudden spring
It isn't a creature of flickered hope
Or the final tug at a slipping rope;
But it's something deep in the soul of man
That is working always to serve some plan.
Courage isn't the last resort
In the work of life or the game of sport;
It isn't a thing that a man can call
At some future time when he's apt to fall;
If he hasn't it now, he will have it not
When the strain is great and the pace is hot.
For who would strive for a distant goal
Must always have courage within his soul.
Courage isn't a dazzling light
That flashes and passes away from sight;
It's a slow, unwavering, ingrained trait
With the patience to work and the strength to wait.
It's part of a man when his skies are blue,
It's part of him when he has work to do.
The brave man never is freed of it.
He has it when there is no need of it.
Courage was never designed for show;
It isn't a thing that can come and go;
It's written in victory and defeat
And every trial a man may meet.
It's part of his hours, his days and his years,
Back of his smiles and behind his tears.
Courage is more than a daring deed:
It's the breath of life and a strong man's creed.
It's hard to translate one's feelings into speech,
It takes time to overcome the obstacles we meet.
Don't live life scared of what your words will bring,
Even if you fail, at least you attempted to do something.
In this life I would rather fail everyday,
And tell my stories of the one's that got away...
Then sit alone with my regrets always haunting me...
'I could have been, but I never had the courage to be.'
There is a courage, a majestic thing
That springs forth from the brow of pain, full-grown,
Minerva-like, and dares all dangers known,
And all the threatening future yet may bring;
Crowned with the helmet of great suffering;
Serene with that grand strength by martyrs shown,
When at the stake they die and make no moan,
And even as the flames leap up are heard to sing:
A courage so sublime and unafraid,
It wears its sorrows like a coat of mail;
And Fate, the archer, passes by dismayed,
Knowing his best barbed arrows needs must fail
To pierce a soul so armored and arrayed
That Death himself might look on it and quail.
Courage
Let our misfortune be a
runing water!
Our courage borrow
a lava from the wild
Volcano even though
some of our rivers are destined to flow
after we have gone.
We made life precious
we can also turn death
into diamonds, if only
we can let our soul be
a wind far from the eyes
of men.
It is the courage of the human being
That made the world so beautiful to live with
Through his hard work and intelligence
Made wonderful achievements for human sake
The first set of courageous men's desires
Taught them how to hunter using the stones
They studied the necessity on events
And sharpening the stone articles used for hunting
Their strong courage and determination
Made them active to face the challenges
It is the courage of men in earlier eras
Invented the wind ridden ships and vessels
Through their courage and wisdom
Together with the determination and skills
They found new worlds and new people
They ascertained new avenues of gains
But for the invasions of fight in new places
The stiff competitions the real successors
Survived the fittest among them
It is through the courage adopted from footsteps
Of our bygone era of forefathers
That we learnt the qualities of courage
New inventions now continuing and ongoing
New planets are imminent to conquer
New places we aspire to be conquered
Where human beings will make their new homes
Provided water sources and breathing air is there
It is our courage and wisdom that follows
Through the intelligence and decisiveness
That we gain for a better future
Where the world will be better for tomorrow.
Give me a spirit that on this life's rough sea
Loves to have his sails filled with a lusty wind
Even till his sailyards tremble, his masts crack,
And his rapt ship runs on her side so low
That she drinks water, and her keel ploughs air;
There is no danger to a man that knows
What life and death is, - there is no law
Exceeds his knowledge: neither is it lawful
That he should stoop to any other law.
Courage is what it takes to stand up to others
Courage is what it takes to make your own decisions
Courage is what it takes to succeed
But it also takes courage to sit down and listen
It also takes courage to admit a loss
It will take courage to respect someone others don't
Courage is needed to withstand peer pressure
So what does this mean?
Courage is essential in your journey through life.
When first I jumped it did not take persuasion,
much stronger forces needed fighting 'til they quit.
One trusts a parachute on only one occasion
until the next time when they ask for Agent Grit.
To overcome the inner guardian and succeed
in hairy matters that are threatening to life
it is essential that one recognize the need
to substitute BIG for a smaller strife.
And so it was when I was sitting on the bench,
with Magdalena from the Catholic Lycée,
we had progressed to kissing longer, and in French,
but my left hand,  perched on her knee, would not obey.
It took an hour of the strongest concentration.
And only promises of later, greater pleasures
at last allowed me to give in to motivation
to roam around and find the greatest of all treasures.
It takes courage to admit defeat
to lay the weapons down
to declare oneself unarmed
before anyone else gets hurt
it takes courage to succumb
to ones fear to overcome it
to surrender to the frankness
of the unknown you know don't
want to be held prisoner exactly
perhaps someone will just kill me
then it won't really matter anymore
2005
CARELESSLY over the plain away,
Where by the boldest man no path
Cut before thee thou canst discern,
Make for thyself a path!
Silence, loved one, my heart!
Cracking, let it not break!
Breaking, break not with thee!
Tap in, Tap in
Yeah, tap into my sharpened senses
I have the courage to speak
I have the courage to think
I am me, today and tomorrow
With courage we engage
Bringing new things to life's stage
We remove excessive baggage
As we try hard to be above average
Tap in, Tap in
Yeah, tap into my sharpened senses
Don't attempt to break down my defences
I have the courage to encourage
I rage upon those who discourage
For those who clap their hands in pretence
At my courageous expenses give out only offense
Courage has built me a new image
I feel as if I have entered a new age
I stand out now as I have come out of my cage
Making a difference as I get rid of blockages
Tap in, Tap in
Yeah, tap into my sharpened senses
Courage is great
Courage is the way forward
Courage sets the stage for change
Today is only today because of the courage of others
'I brought some flowers'
I said to the nurse at the desk
She told me to take them home
Saying they weren't usually left
I said I'd like them in the room
Left up high out of the way
I said it was important
To have flowers during the stay
The next day on my visit
I spotted my bunch of flowers
They'd been placed in an old carton
The flower heads were drooping down
The hospital, like the carton
Was unsuitable, drab and old
The patients seemed like wilting flowers
They were sedated, sad and bored
I wrote a letter of complaint
Saying conditions there were cramped
The atmosphere there was despondent
Personal things got lost
There was little stimulation
No calm place to relax
Little chance to go outside
The grounds were even stark
Always try to find the courage
To speak up if there's a need
Stand up for what is right
Force authorities to take heed
We all have power to change things
To demand what is right
Keep in mind the wilting flowers
Don't give up the fight
Courage is doing what is right,
Courage it takes to speak the,
truth
Courage it takes to be yourself
Corage to stand out
Courage to be me
Courage is love,
It brings hope
Courage gives you the strenght,
To all weakenesses
Courage is something any,
one can achieve
The heart of love is,
Courage
Don't close your eyes on the wolrd,
There are many wo cares for you,
Face your life and its trials with,
a quiet mind and courageous,
Smile
Courage is my last name
Smile upon winning
but, smile still when you lost...
it marks true courage!
What does courage mean to me?
What does it mean to you?
To some, a single attribute, others, quite a few,
For courage is a lack of fear, inspired by faith and love,
Love of a person, place, or thing, faith in "our Lord" above.
In time of stress, the "Lord" provides, the strength to overcome,
It's courage! giving special drive! until the goal is won.
When danger threatens life or limb, it's courage to the fore,
A courage known by many names, as: daring! guts! and more.
Whatever name we give this trait, it's valiant! stout! and bold!
In action, it is fortitude, a wonder! to behold.
Today I opened wide my eyes,
And stared with wonder and surprise,
To see beneath November skies
An apple blossom peer;
Upon a branch as bleak as night
It gleamed exultant on my sight,
A fairy beacon burning bright
Of hope and cheer.
'Alas! ' said I, 'poor foolish thing,
Have you mistaken this for Spring?
Behold, the thrush has taken wing,
And Winter's near.'
Serene it seemed to lift its head:
'The Winter's wrath I do not dread,
Because I am,' it proudly said,
'A Pioneer.
'Some apple blossom must be first,
With beauty's urgency to burst
Into a world for joy athirst,
And so I dare;
And I shall see what none shall see -
December skies gloom over me,
And mock them with my April glee,
And fearless fare.
'And I shall hear what none shall hear -
The hardy robin piping clear,
The Storm King gallop dark and drear
Across the sky;
And I shall know what none shall know -
The silent kisses of the snow,
The Christmas candles' silver glow,
Before I die.
'Then from your frost-gemmed window pane
One morning you will look in vain,
My smile of delicate disdain
No more to see;
But though I pass before my time,
And perish in the grale and grime,
Maybe you'll have a little rhyme
To spare for me.'
To speak ill of the world
Needs courage,
But fortunately or unfortunately
Everybody has that courage.
To love the world
As one's own,
Very own,
Needs courage.
Unfortunately, most of us are wanting
In that courage.
The courage of the heart,
The courage of the soul
We badly need,
And not the courage
Of the unruly,
Aggressive,
Impure,
Demanding vital.
There were many who went in huddled procession,
They knew not whither;
But, at any rate, success or calamity
Would attend all in equality.
There was one who sought a new road.
He went into direful thickets,
And ultimately he died thus, alone;
But they said he had courage.
It Found me
In the deep recesses
Close to
Where
My information
Is stored
TMI  OVERLOAD!
Overwhelms!
Adrenalin fueled
Deep seated NEED
To  RIGHT  the Many
WRONGS
It  BURNS  COURAGEI
Into these bones
All Life Long
It takes courage to change yourself
It takes courage to reach out to someone
To admit that you can't do it by yourself.
It takes courage to change
Change the way you looked at yourself
Change the way you react to situations
Change the way you view life itself.
Change the way you look at yourself
Recognize that you are a good person
Recognize that you have needs too
Recognize that you have feelings and that you hurt.
Change the way you react to situations
Look at the other person's side, not just yours
Look at the whole picture - know that all is not as it seems
Don't prejudge because you don't want others to prejudge you.
Change the way you view life
Learn that you cannot control things
Take chances, even when you are scared
Realize that life is an adventure - treat it as such.
Water and air, finds the way,
Disturb not, otherwise you've to pay,
So the dream of ours,
Let them fly high,
Disturb not, otherwise unattended you'll lay,
Ah! One must have courage to dream,
Like a river that flows stream
they'll
fall away
one by one
as strands of you
milk the moments
you had
for what they were worth,
still smouldering
in the hand
even though
you knew
in your hearts mind
that
it was pretence
as they smiled
behind soft
contemptuous lips
that offer you
quiet resentment
instead of love
just because
you breathe
and are
uniquely you,
and that
makes them
uncomfortable
against their
square jawed
perfect,
materialistic plan
that can't afford
you
but can
their every whim
which makes them
sorely aware
of their
superlative selves
so they
push you away
thinking
you are less
then them
because
you don't fit
but you keep
steering steadfast
in the sanctity
of truth
inside of trust
as the most valuable
integer
and they fear
''your being''
because
through you
they see
themselves
impoverished,
and their superior
ways collapse
in blind belief
as they continue
to make spaces
''for time''
more than sharing
or listening
or caring
for anyone else
because
what they want
is never enough-
so let them fall away
to be left
as dust
when matter
does not matter
and when you are
feeling raw and
naked and
real
then you can
afford
the comfort
of being
with another
and that is
what is true
and right
and real
and what you
are all about.
Copyright ©2005
Why do I think of Michael....
He came to my fiction class
as a man (dressed in men's
clothes) : then he came
to my poetry class
as a woman (dressed in women's
clothes, but he was still
a man under the clothes) .
Was I moved in the face of
such courage (man/woman
woman/man) ....
Was I moved by the gentleness
of his masculinity; the strength
of his femininity....
His presence at the class poetry
reading, dressed in a miniskirt,
high boots, bright purple tights,
a scooped-neck blouse, carrying
a single, living, red rose, in a
vase, to the podium (the visitors
not from the class, shocked-
the young, seen-it-all MTV crowd-
into silence as he's introduced,
'Michael....')   And what it was, I think,
was his perfect dignity, the offering
of his living, red rose to the perceptive,
to the blind, to the amused, to the impressed,
to those who would kill him, and
to those who would love him.
And of course I remember the surprise
of his foamy breasts as we hugged
goodbye, his face blossomed
open, set apart, the pain of it,
the joy of it (the crazy courage
to be whole, as a rose is
whole, as a child is
whole before they're
punished for including
everything in their
innocence.)
To Michael B.
What am I to do
when even eternally
I'm shivering from fright,
instead of from the wind?
Am I to draw close
to flames that shimmer
in crackling darkness
on a night like this?
Or shall I lean into you
while dreaming of the
summers days of the old-
times when I was self assured?
With sadness I walk
this plank through valleys,
though I have not yet expired.
I plead...is this my last mile?
For I do not wish to exit
this lonely passage way, while
feeling all I knew was survival.
Dear Courage...will you visit again?
Written on February 26th 2008.
a blue flying butterfly a brown squirrel ferns
berries violet yellow daffodils blue bird flies
bright sharp inked tapestry in rainbow colours
tattoos enclosed in chain graphic bra designs
courage etched in hues takes multiple forms
trauma has mind splinter many edged facets
behold a statement of courage written in art
honour courage honour all who need support
after surviving cruel breast cancer drastic measures?
would you still feel be a beautiful sensual woman?
after losing shock womanhood cut off bresasts nipples?
is surviving is woman's courage worthy of admiration?
would you hide in a corner hide from world?
could you naked new figure mirror face behold?
how will you face pity in old friends family?
how will you face horror in eyes of scrutiny?
flickering looks casual glances turn back faces?
leading to searching examinations investigations?
how will you deal with surveillance close continuous?
how will you deal with close searching stranger looks?
will you be watching guarding against minute inquiry?
post scapel mastectomy disfiguring prophylactic surgery?
post removed both breasts would you face public scrutiny?
would you hide in your house seeking shadow security?
would you need decide to endue new breast reconstruction?
would you breast shape decide upon breast form prosthesis?
breast prostheses bewilders in many shapes sizes materials?
choice heavy silicone gel lightweight foam fiberfill interiors?
choice face society with tattooed bra harsh labelled pornography?
support from other woman would you expect to find post surgery?
women unkind attack tattooed bra with facebook condemnation?
can you endure slung verbal attacks insults from healthy women?
why is choice no boobs nipples offensive if survivor public shown?
is not facing illustrating need for self breast cancer checks necessary?
is it not offensive to ignore life threating problems cancer full blown?
what's the problem? promoting safety? promote cancer checks daily?
so what do we do about the woman with the breast cancer warning?
addressing seriously urgently need problem now should be dawning?
so promote this awesome tattoo celebrate women cancer surviving?
your one amazing lady be strong admire courage or keep scrolling?
courage takes many forms this is a statement of courage written
in art, honour courage, honour all women, who need support!
after surviving breast cancer drastic measures; is this woman's
courage worthy of admiration or sensor facebook condemnation!
Life is beautiful...
and ugly
Life is a gift....
we cruise and unleash our potentials...
waits...are the....scrap metals......or diamonds....
Passion is like rivers
water flowing endlessly
You can swim
but don't get drowned.....
Those who struggles gravely in early life
Would comes out a winner
In later life
Caught in the crossfire of.....
entangled past....
you deliberately diminish the agony and pain...
with dignity
A home is a home for the homeless
a great place to live
This whole big things........
living is an illusions..
it will vanished
when we're no longer here
Free flow of passionate ideas that calm a troubled heart....
charming thinking
I’ve the courage...
to write it so great
read...
before going to bed........
before dead..
make it a date....
not too late
.
Horatio, of ideal courage vain,
Was flourishing in air his father's cane,
And, as the fumes of valour swelled his pate,
Now thought himself this hero, and now that:
'And now,' he cried, 'I will Achilles be;
My sword I brandish; see, the Trojans flee.
Now I'll be Hector, when his angry blade
A lane through heaps of slaughtered Grecians made!
And now by deeds still braver I'll evince
I am no less than Edward the Black Prince.-
Give way, ye coward French-' As thus he spoke,
And aimed in fancy a sufficient stroke
To fix the fate of Cressy or Poictiers
(The Muse relates the hero's fate with tears);
He struck his milk-white hand against a nail,
Sees his own blood, and feels his courage fail.
Ah! where is now that boasted valour flown,
That in the tented field so late was shown!
Achilles weeps, Great Hector hangs the head,
And the Black Prince goes whimpering to bed.
Gather courage
There is no another chance
Once missed means lost at once
Love is no commodity
So you go for exchange everyday
If you have done any mistake
That can't be retaken
Once you have hurt someone
That shall not be forgotten
At no stage you have shown regret
Or cause for bad fate
You might have gone too far
So is the result leading to fear?
Make no love bid again
Else it may add pain
She shall be troubled often
And life shall be turned into hell from heaven
Accept the fate
As it is still not late
You are responsible for mess
So gather courage to face
Give me the courage to seek the truth.
For often in its discovery, there
will be disappointment, pain and despair
© Joe Fazio
Off the boat - -
See Ocean is wriggling
Don't be fool to play with mighty
In the most painful situations of life,
at the moments of terrible rejection,
of being cheated mercilessly by loved ones,
even when I am physically abused
I promise to myself to keep calm
and to keep my spirits high
deep-rooted in my faith
that there is a God
who looks at me.
God loves me. It is my faith.
He guards me; God comforts me.
God is with me always,
and much more inmy terrible moments.
Have you got the courage?
To deal with personal baggage
Have you got the courage?
To embark on a new voyage
It is crystalline common knowledge
Many a woman born with courage
Has had piffling or no privileges
To travel through life’s hideous passage
And stand stubbornly by her message
Highs but not the lows, If you one of those
Have you got the courage, to end your marriage?
Have you got the courage, to face your fears?
Or experiment with new ideas
Have you got the courage, to say you love me?
And maturely accept if I glee or flee
Have you got the courage, to repair all self inflicted damage
Before your life becomes wastage
Have you got the courage, to learn a new language?
Can you manage with new knowledge?
Have you got the courage, to admit your gruesome rage?
Instead of acting like an actress on stage
Courage comes with age
When priority is no more image
Courage comes with change
Evolving from leadership shortage
In life, at this stage
Courage is something you must engage
It must be clearly visible in every page
In Japan, they write on rice paper,
In America, we write on the sides of buildings.
In Japan they honor their elders,
In America, we rob them on buses,
And abuse them.
In Japan there is great love for their country.
In America, people are refusing to stand,
For the national anthem.
In Japan, men are volunteering to die,
Without a second thought,
To give up their lives,
To save their fellow citizens.
Oh yes, you'll say, the Japanese are great,
At dying, at suicide missions.
But is that the point?
Shouldn't the point be,
The Japanese love their homeland,
The Japanese love their own people,
The Japanese love their way of life,
The Japanese love their traditions,
Love, honor, respect, courage,
Nobody writes on Japanese walls.
Offenders are quickly and severely dealt with.
Wouldn't you volunteer also?
Maybe not.
Honor, and courage,
Seem to be,
In short supply,
Stateside.
3/26/11 Alton Texas
It's been eleven years,
since I first met you.
I know that the blessed,
are far and few.
I wish I saved myself
just for you.
As I write this poem,
only for you.
Something I thought,
I could never do.
I hope you accept this poem,
from me to you.
Times have seemed to change,
yet so many things remain the same.
There are so many things I have learned,
and so many pages that I have turned.
People are always changing,
trying to play the part.
Yet the only movement I felt,
is the one inside my heart.
The Gods have shined down on me,
to give me the courage to write to thee.
Yes or no, right or wrong,
my faith in us, will be forever strong.
Although my will was not enough,
to share my feelings before you left.
I respect our friendship the way it exists,
I can't help wondering if more could exist.
I think of the good times that we shared,
I never knew the burdens you bared.
I really wish I knew your pain,
I'd have done anything to take it all away.
There were so many things I wanted to say;
but here I am writing so far away.
Thousands of miles and an ocean away,
my feelings for you will always remain.
I haven't much to give,
only one life to live.
So little money and so few possessions,
a simple man with no obsessions.
For my hope carries me on,
and my faith makes me strong.
My heart and soul and love for you,
these are what I offer you.
With a soul,
as stong as you;
when I sleep,
I dream of you.
My faith and thoughts of happiness,
you're my sanity in this world of madness.
You remain in my thoughts everyday,
and I hope we will meet another day.
In courage-you find
no fear
and in courage-no weakness
does appear
In courage-steps toward
danger taken
and in courage-strength
within awaken
In courage- a hero
takes shape
and in courage- the villain
can't escape
In courage-there is a call
to duty
and in courage-out of ugliness
comes beauty
To refrain from gossip
When others delight in it,
To stand up for the absent person
Who is being abused.
It takes courage
To live honestly
Within your means,
And not dishonestly
On the means of others.
It takes courage
To be a real man or a true woman,
To hold fast to your ideals
When it causes you
To be looked upon
As strange and peculiar.
It takes courage
To be talked about,
And remain silent;
When a word would justify you
In the eyes of others,
But which you dare not speak
Because it would injure another.
It takes courage
To refuse to do something
That is wrong
Although everyone else
May be doing it
With attitudes as carefree
As a summer song.
It takes courage
To live according
To your own convictions,
To deny yourself
What you cannot afford.
To love your neighbor
As yourself!
it takes courage to say life goes on
without knowing where you might end
it takes a lot of courage to achieve what
you want to be in life
it takes more courage to forgive
someone that hurt you
it takes more courage to make a tough decision
when you know you might end up  paying consequences
it take more than courage
to be responsible and honest
it takes more than what you call courage
to be a real man! !
Most days I feel
Like I am
Losing so much time
Sitting
Waiting
Hoping
For you to change
Never knowing quite for sure
If it is me or you that must change
Always believed that by
Not moving
Making no decision
Is the same as making one
Wondering if it is due to my lack of strength
Or no courage
To take those hits
That will happen if I choose
To move
Now
Wish I knew if this was truly my choice
Or one made only by lack of my courage
Courage to do something extraordinary,
Courage to fight with diseases,
Courage to make people stand on their own,
Courage to believe in someone,
Courage to fight against all odds
Brave Ben dreamt he was drowning in the sea
From killer waves, he struggled to be free
He woke up in fright
In the dead of the night
His wife asked- "What made you pee"
Past memory
Make you feel sorry
For misdeeds
Or wrong feeds
It has deep impact
For acts
In mind
Forces to think as blind
It pinches
And reaches
To make you restless
With gloom on face
As rivers are now added with dirt
It has only bad odor to be smelt
Chemical waste adds woe
Where human beings can go?
Everything is polluted
Human values are diluted
Riots, unrest and murders are common
Not to speak of rapes on women
You cry in wilderness
No one hear even hiss
You curse but have no courage
Life shall move on with little courage
Politicians do not have what it takes
Moral courage they will rather forsake
Their only interest is sharing the cake
But those who have it do not politicians make
Supposing that I should have the courage
To let a red sword of virtue
Plunge into my heart,
Letting to the weeds of the ground
My sinful blood,
What can you offer me?
A gardened castle?
A flowery kingdom?
What? A hope?
Then hence with your red sword of virtue.
The Poles rode out from Warsaw against the German
Tanks on horses.  Rode knowing, in sunlight, with sabers,
A magnitude of beauty that allows me no peace.
And yet this poem would lessen that day. Question
The bravery. Say it's not courage. Call it a passion.
Would say courage isn't that. Not at its best.
It was impossible, and with form. They rode in sunlight,
Were mangled. But I say courage is not the abnormal.
Not the marvelous act. Not Macbeth with fine speeches.
The worthless can manage in public, or for the moment.
It is too near the whore's heart: the bounty of impulse,
And the failure to sustain even small kindness.
Not the marvelous act, but the evident conclusion of being.
Not strangeness, but a leap forward of the same quality.
Accomplishment.  The even loyalty.  But fresh.
Not the Prodigal Son, nor Faustus. But Penelope.
The thing steady and clear. Then the crescendo.
The real form. The culmination. And the exceeding.
Not the surprise. The amazed understanding. The marriage,
Not the month's rapture.  Not the exception.  The beauty
That is of many days. Steady and clear.
It is the normal excellence, of long accomplishment.
The courage of the shut mouth, in spite of artillery!
The line pink and quiet, a worm, basking.
There are black disks behind it, the disks of outrage,
And the outrage of a sky, the lined brain of it.
The disks revolve, they ask to be heard—
Loaded, as they are, with accounts of ****ies.
****ies, usages, desertions and doubleness,
The needle journeying in its groove,
Silver beast between two dark canyons,
A great surgeon, now a tattooist,
Tattooing over and over the same blue grievances,
The snakes, the babies, the tits
On mermaids and two-legged dreamgirls.
The surgeon is quiet, he does not speak.
He has seen too much death, his hands are full of it.
So the disks of the brain revolve, like the muzzles of cannon.
Then there is that antique billhook, the tongue,
Indefatigable, purple. Must it be cut out?
It has nine tails, it is dangerous.
And the noise it flays from the air, once it gets going!
No, the tongue, too, has been put by,
Hung up in the library with the engravings of Rangoon
And the fox heads, the otter heads, the heads of dead rabbits.
It is a marvelous object—
The things it has pierced in its time.
But how about the eyes, the eyes, the eyes?
Mirrors can kill and talk, they are terrible rooms
In which a torture goes on one can only watch.
The face that lived in this mirror is the face of a dead man.
Do not worry about the eyes—
They may be white and shy, they are no stool pigeons,
Their death rays folded like flags
Of a country no longer heard of,
An obstinate independency
Insolvent among the mountains.
The courage that my mother had
Went with her, and is with her still:
Rock from New England quarried;
Now granite in a granite hill.
The golden brooch my mother wore
She left behind for me to wear;
I have no thing I treasure more:
Yet, it is something I could spare.
Oh, if instead she'd left to me
The thing she took into the grave!—
That courage like a rock, which she
Has no more need of, and I have.
When old and gray
on a sleepful day
dozing at fire's side
near the finish of life's long ride,
will your soul once more awake
with a bitter remembrance of heart's break
to find the last thing tenderly true
is that little spark of love yet smoldering deep within you;
Stoop and stir the fire
those final embers of sweet desire
which are still aglow
burning on through the years of long ago,
with this concluding passion of a former time
you shall come to find
love is after all truly the bravest of the brave
the only one with enough courage to forever follow, even into
the grave.
THE martial courage of a day is vain,
An empty noise of death the battle's roar,
If vital hope be wanting to restore,
Or fortitude be wanting to sustain,
Armies or kingdoms. We have heard a strain
Of triumph, how the labouring Danube bore
A weight of hostile corses; drenched with gore
Were the wide fields, the hamlets heaped with slain.
Yet see (the mighty tumult overpast)
Austria a daughter of her Throne hath sold!
And her Tyrolean Champion we behold
Murdered, like one ashore by shipwreck cast,
Murdered without relief. Oh! blind as bold,
To think that such assurance can stand fast!
When our free land's great captain, Washington,
Was colonel in Virginia, ere the war
He led for Independence had begun,
A passing cloud obscured his rising star:
His sometimes frightful passions woke, and they,
Then unbroke coursers, had their fiery way.
For while between opposing factions there
The bloodless battle by the ballot rolled,
Into one's pride whem he had found unfair
He plunged a speech-wrought weapon, keen and cold;
And the hurt voter, with a blow unmeet,
Stretched his insulter senseless at his feet.
Forth hied the dread news, waxing as it went,
Fed by the food it gave to every tongue;
Uprose, wild-eyed, the wrathful regiment,
And idle swords and flintlocks were unhung,
And marshaled to the drum, whose speedy call
Was like the beating of the hearts of all.
When grief has rage soft pity turns to stone.
These loved their leader as they loved their land;
Aslant, like shining rain, their muskets shone,
And harsh the voice of vengeance pealed command:
'All foully slain our colonel lies, struck down!
On, comrades! Give no quarter! Burn the town!'
Meanwhile, the stricken was made whole again,
And, hurried by the townsfolk, rode to meet
The armed, excited torrent of fierce men
Advancing toward the small, elect'ral street;
And gladly holden in their wond'ring sight,
They pressed around him with unfeigned delight.
But vengeance is so inconsiderate,
Shorn of excuse it yet pursues its prey;
And all the soldiers, filled with gathered hate,
Were willed to leave black ruin on their way.
He charged them, lest the love he bore should cease,
To bate their wrath, and turn again in peace.
So they went back; and slowly he returned,
Chastising his quick passions ruthlessly;
For who, that with a foolish rage has burned,
Knows blame as bitter as his own may be?
But when red morn rolled up its splendid wheel,
Joy followed close on Sorrow's fleeing heel.
For then betimes, a lark-blithe letter flew
Out of a heart where kindness brooded warm;
But to the voter's short and narrow view
It was the white-winged augury of storm;
It asked a meeting only, yet he heard
Of challenge and of duel in the word.
For who could know that one would be so bold
To face and brave the time?-in that it meant
That each his honor on his sword should hold?
The voter straightway to the other went,
And Washington, with courage strong and grand,
Held forth his prudent and heroic hand.
And in his love of truth, sublime and glad,
To him who struck him down he made amends:
'If with the satisfaction you have had
You are content, oh, let us then be friends!
For, looking back on our affray with shame,
I feel that I alone have been to blame.'
Black trees against an orange sky,
Trees that the wind shook terribly,
Like a harsh spume along the road,
Quavering up like withered arms,
Writhing like streams, like twisted charms
Of hot lead flung in snow. Below
The iron ice stung like a goad,
Slashing the torn shoes from my feet,
And all the air was bitter sleet.
And all the land was cramped with snow,
Steel-strong and fierce and glimmering wan,
Like pale plains of obsidian.
-- And yet I strove -- and I was fire
And ice -- and fire and ice were one
In one vast hunger of desire.
A dim desire, of pleasant places,
And lush fields in the summer sun,
And logs aflame, and walls, and faces,
-- And wine, and old ambrosial talk,
A golden ball in fountains dancing,
And unforgotten hands. (Ah, God,
I trod them down where I have trod,
And they remain, and they remain,
Etched in unutterable pain,
Loved lips and faces now apart,
That once were closer than my heart --
In agony, in agony,
And horribly a part of me. . . .
For Lethe is for no man set,
And in Hell may no man forget.)
And there were flowers, and jugs, bright-glancing,
And old Italian swords -- and looks,
A moment's glance of fire, of fire,
Spiring, leaping, flaming higher,
Into the intense, the cloudless blue,
Until two souls were one, and flame,
And very flesh, and yet the same!
As if all springs were crushed anew
Into one globed drop of dew!
But for the most I thought of heat,
Desiring greatly. . . . Hot white sand
The lazy body lies at rest in,
Or sun-dried, scented grass to nest in,
And fires, innumerable fires,
Great fagots hurling golden gyres
Of sparks far up, and the red heart
In sea-coals, crashing as they part
To tiny flares, and kindling snapping,
Bunched sticks that burst their string and wrapping
And fall like jackstraws; green and blue
The evil flames of driftwood too,
And heavy, sullen lumps of coke
With still, fierce heat and ugly smoke. . . .
. . . And then the vision of his face,
And theirs, all theirs, came like a sword,
Thrice, to the heart -- and as I fell
I thought I saw a light before.
I woke. My hands were blue and sore,
Torn on the ice. I scarcely felt
The frozen sleet begin to melt
Upon my face as I breathed deeper,
But lay there warmly, like a sleeper
Who shifts his arm once, and moans low,
And then sinks back to night. Slow, slow,
And still as Death, came Sleep and Death
And looked at me with quiet breath.
Unbending figures, black and stark
Against the intense deeps of the dark.
Tall and like trees. Like sweet and fire
Rest crept and crept along my veins,
Gently. And there were no more pains. . . .
Was it not better so to lie?
The fight was done. Even gods tire
Of fighting. . . . My way was the wrong.
Now I should drift and drift along
To endless quiet, golden peace . . .
And let the tortured body cease.
And then a light winked like an eye.
. . . And very many miles away
A girl stood at a warm, lit door,
Holding a lamp. Ray upon ray
It cloaked the snow with perfect light.
And where she was there was no night
Nor could be, ever. God is sure,
And in his hands are things secure.
It is not given me to trace
The lovely laughter of that face,
Like a clear brook most full of light,
Or olives swaying on a height,
So silver they have wings, almost;
Like a great word once known and lost
And meaning all things. Nor her voice
A happy sound where larks rejoice,
Her body, that great loveliness,
The tender fashion of her dress,
I may not paint them.
These I see,
Blazing through all eternity,
A fire-winged sign, a glorious tree!
She stood there, and at once I knew
The bitter thing that I must do.
There could be no surrender now;
Though Sleep and Death were whispering low.
My way was wrong. So. Would it mend
If I shrank back before the end?
And sank to death and cowardice?
No, the last lees must be drained up,
Base wine from an ignoble cup;
(Yet not so base as sleek content
When I had shrunk from punishment)
The wretched body strain anew!
Life was a storm to wander through.
I took the wrong way. Good and well,
At least my feet sought out not Hell!
Though night were one consuming flame
I must go on for my base aim,
And so, perhaps, make evil grow
To something clean by agony . . .
And reach that light upon the snow . . .
And touch her dress at last . . .
So, so,
I crawled. I could not speak or see
Save dimly. The ice glared like fire,
A long bright Hell of choking cold,
And each vein was a tautened wire,
Throbbing with torture -- and I crawled.
My hands were wounds.
So I attained
The second Hell. The snow was stained
I thought, and shook my head at it
How red it was! Black tree-roots clutched
And tore -- and soon the snow was smutched
Anew; and I lurched babbling on,
And then fell down to rest a bit,
And came upon another Hell . . .
Loose stones that ice made terrible,
That rolled and gashed men as they fell.
I stumbled, slipped . . . and all was gone
That I had gained. Once more I lay
Before the long bright Hell of ice.
And still the light was far away.
There was red mist before my eyes
Or I could tell you how I went
Across the swaying firmament,
A glittering torture of cold stars,
And how I fought in Titan wars . . .
And died . . . and lived again upon
The rack . . . and how the horses strain
When their red task is nearly done. . . .
I only know that there was Pain,
Infinite and eternal Pain.
And that I fell -- and rose again.
So she was walking in the road.
And I stood upright like a man,
Once, and fell blind, and heard her cry . . .
And then there came long agony.
There was no pain when I awoke,
No pain at all. Rest, like a goad,
Spurred my eyes open -- and light broke
Upon them like a million swords:
And she was there. There are no words.
Heaven is for a moment's span.
And ever.
So I spoke and said,
"My honor stands up unbetrayed,
And I have seen you. Dear . . ."
Sharp pain
Closed like a cloak. . . .
I moaned and died.
Here, even here, these things remain.
I shall draw nearer to her side.
Oh dear and laughing, lost to me,
Hidden in grey Eternity,
I shall attain, with burning feet,
To you and to the mercy-seat!
The ages crumble down like dust,
Dark roses, deviously thrust
And scattered in sweet wine -- but I,
I shall lift up to you my cry,
And kiss your wet lips presently
Beneath the ever-living Tree.
This in my heart I keep for goad!
Somewhere, in Heaven she walks that road.
Somewhere . . . in Heaven . . . she walks . . . that . . . road. . . .
The least because he trembles to grey fear
That man should call courage to conquer fright,
Fine if a man at times should frightened be,
Not if he should flight from fear’s bleary blight,
Howso brave, a man needs courage no mean
To face, fight, and conquer what he does fear,
And he needs to fear first— courage to win,
That dwells yon fear, yet close enough and near.
King Odysseus, who this truth knew just fine,
Reasoned Achilles to fight the Trojan War:
If ye should fear no one, problem ‘tis thine,
Do keep fear close to thy courageous shore.
Ah, soothing most words these I’ve ever heard:
No man courageous is that hath ne’er feared.
______________________________________ __________________
1. The poem uses the dialogue of the movie, Troy. The words
used therein are: ‘You don’t fear anyone, that’s your problem.
Sometimes fear is useful’.
_____________________________________ ____________________
- Sonnets | 02.09.10 |
THE WORLD NEEDS COURAGE AND HOPE
The world needs Courage and Hope
It needs voices that believe-
It needs kindness and caring and love
But also the strength of conviction
The world needs so much
My own doubting and questioning voice lacks
What I have to give
Is not what Humanity most needs.
More questions, more self- obsessions
The endless example of the single individual
Striving to create what he may never be able to.
God of  Love of Goodness and of Kindness
I am afraid You need a lot stronger servants than I.
to still have the courage
to go on living
despite
all the odds of a life
that seems
to refuse life's
limited offers
of survival
to dream of you
and still keep on dreaming
of you
when reality
on the other hand
flatly tells
that you were gone
that in fact
you were gone
23 years ago
i wake up
only to  find out that
life is cruel
and insensitive
courage tells
to go on
living life
both as a duty
and a right
that life is beautiful
that  courage
is indefatigable
Courage is doing what is right
Without having to be told
Courage is manning up
When you know you've done something wrong
Courage is looking the enemy in the eye
And telling them to just bring it
Courage is having fear
But still staying strong
Courage is facing adversity
But being able to overcome it
Courage is leaving your family behind
To defend the country you love
Courage is being a soldier
In the greatest army in the world
Thank you for this courage
That lets us live free
May God bless you
And come home safely to your families
Let me tell you a story,
A story of 28 great lives,
Of hope, of enterprise,
An inspiring story,
Of adventure, of glory
Clark, hero of Kentucky
Lewis, loyal to the President
With a melancholic strain,
Sallied into the unknown
The Corps of Discovery’s
Body and brain.
Commanded by
The Son of America
Equipped with bravery,
A Giant,
Who dared throw off
The yoke of King’s slavery.
Lured by a dream
Of the virgin land,
Set forth to discover
The Northwest Passage,
This ragtag band.
Armed with
Gifts, guns, stores
And Rush’s thunderbolt,
Barrels of Whiskey
To quell shiphand revolt.
They sailed
The mighty Mississippi
Christening from the start,
Madison, Gallatin, Jefferson
A young republic
Honored from their heart.
The journey into the unknown
Was fraught with surprise,
Would they ever win
And claim their prize?
The west was
Pristinely beautiful
Rockies, Prairies, Great Plains,
With death as their friend
Persevered without complaints.
Many a times voted
In American tradition,
Strengthened by discipline
Their leaders’ demanding condition.
Enriched science with
Idyllic flora and fauna,
Won over the
Mandans, Lakotas, Crows
With their gentle persona.
Sacagawea, the Shoshonee
Stood with many a males,
York, the slave
Was devoted to the cause
Of keeping the Corps a-sail.
After long patient winter
And portage over their backs,
They finally stood atop
The Continental Divide
Gauging their stocks.
Dumbstruck
At the expanse ahead,
They pressed on
Into the unknown
And chose starvation instead.
Finally, at Fort Clatsop
In misty Columbia Gorge
The  Shangri-La was claimed,
Thanks to the defiant few
The Wild West had been tamed
It took 4 years
For this momentous journey,
Of adventure, of enterprise,
Of great lives,
Of glory,
That inspires
With its singular story.
To read about this glorious adventure, visit: http: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_and_Clark
Refere nce:
1.	Undaunted Courage: the title has been borrowed from Stephen Ambrose’s book of the same
2.	28 lives: I am unable to confirm the number. They lost only one member of the expedition, to a burst appendicitis
3.	Loyal to the President: Lewis was part of President Jefferson’s staff
4.	Melancholic strain: Lewis was plagued with depression all his life and committed suicide after completion of the expedition
5.	Corps of Discovery: The just name given to the expedition
6.	Son of America: President Jefferson who fulfilled his long cherished dream of exploring the west
7.	Ragtag band: The expedition comprised of soldiers, civilian volunteers, frontiersmen, gentlemen’s sons, one slave and one Indian woman with a child
8.	Rush’s thunderbolt: A potent purgative prescribed by famous Philadelphia doctor, Benjamin Rush, as a cure-all
9.	Whiskey: An essential part of everyday ration, to be drunk instead of un-potable water
10.	Madison, Gallatin, Jefferson: Lewis and Clark named rivers, hills, plains in the virgin land after the President’s cabinet and other American ideas. My favorite: Independence
11.	 Sacagawea: The wife of a French trapper, more intrepid and resourceful than many male members of the expedition
12.	York: Clark’s inherited slave, baffled the Indians who had never seen a black man before
13.	Gauging their stocks: With no wildlife in the high Rockies, the expedition faced starvation. Many even ate their shoes to keep hunger at bay
14.	In progress…………………………………………………
Without fear there cannot be courage
Fear drives the unthinkable out of us
What gives you courage when there is none?
What gives you courage to get out of bed?
What gives you courage to drive when you know it's dangerous?
What gives you courage to succeed?
What gives you courage to survive?
What gives you courage to strive?
People have courage to live for their children
People have courage to live for themselves
People have courage to live for hope
People have courage because they believe
People have courage to not give up
Fear is not the essence of life
But a free soul not tamed
Courage is the journey of your heart
Guided by strength
On a path of untamed obstacles
Let courage guide you
As you begin your quest
Here's a question thats always on the back of your mind
With an answer nearly impossible to find
What is courage?
People often mistake courage for bravery
Like sumone that looks like a celeberity
Bravery is having little or no fear
Like a dying person knowing the end is near
Courage is overcoming what makes you tremble and shiver
Like knowing you might die and still donating your liver
But courage wouldn't exist without fear
Like intoxication wouldn't exist without beer
So I guess now the REAL question is clear
Not What's Courage but What's Fear?
-Casper
With courage
I don't know more
But adore
In heart
As fact of religion art
It is matter of faith
And shall remain in each count of breathe
With cruel joke of death
But where is remedy o sooth?
I bow down my head
And read
In recognition
Only one name for excitation
I feel happiness
On face
With so much of satisfaction
To have read about it in religion
I fear nothing
When remember something
The Kara stone fills me with courage
I live cheerfully with an age
Women of courage, women of strength ,
Women of faith and devotion.
Mothers of children with spirits so strong
Who may have unbridled imaginations.  REFRAIN: They are women, women of courage
They are Christians, towers of strength.
They are women who put Jesus first in life
Show’ ring His love on all those they greet.  Women with losses, women who love,
Whose strength and whose courage comes from above,
Whether they're mothers; or loving Aunties,
It's plain to see Jesus’ love shines through them.  REFRAIN: They are women, women of courage
They are Christians, towers of strength.
They are women who put Jesus first in life
Show’ring His love on all those they greet.  Women I work with, women I know,
Whether at church, or other places I go.
Women whose spirits are battered by pain,
But Christ lifts them up, and they go on again.  REFRAIN: They are women, women of courage
They are Christians, towers of strength.
They are women who put Jesus first in life
Show’ring His love on all those they greet.
(A tribute to the late Pres. Cory Aquino
1933-2009)
In ev’ry light post on an avenue
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry tree along the hi-way
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry edifice high or low
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry single family home
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
In ev’ry private or public vehicle
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
And in ev’ry soul rich or poor on the street
instead of an ol’ oak tree
as it used to be,
One could see a yellow ribbon
big and small tied around it.
symbol of someone returning
in one piece, in triumph but tragic
Comes latitudinarian woman
moxie to fight against tyranny and oppression
Unite Now! Victory is ours!
The obstreperous people power cry
Twenty six years after ubiquitous yellow ribbons
sprouted once more
only to bid farewell to her chanting people
a lasting adieu never to return
Quietus ol’ woman left a legacy
No one could ever forget in every one’s occiput
Keep the corvine neighbors away
Let peace and democracy flourish forever
A shadow with me all day
No body
This is crazy, this is crazy
Notes of a scintillating flute
No flutist
This is crazy, this is crazy
Breathtaking verse on paper
I was sleeping
This is crazy, this is crazy
Vermilion laden sky
Sunrise or sunset?
This is crazy, this is crazy
Dishevelled clothes, swollen lips
You came in my dream
I am crazy, I am crazy
Or is this the only sanity? ?
When I am crazy and insane
as said by the critics
how can I be a poet.
I do not know
how to praise God
God has not taught me
the language of praise
and pleasant words.
I do not fear my God unseen
I have not learnt how to fear
gods on earth
who loves death
instead of life.
Who loves people of power
hoping for a reward.
I prefer chain and punishment
instead of flowers
How can I be a poet of honour
when I am with undressed
and unhonoured people.
Forrest's foliage flourishes as branches
out...The wild animals hide and peek their
heads all about.Forrest trees can turn
ablaze...From this smoke, eyes can be singed
within the blinding haze.Aft' the smoke
finally does abate...This evidenced damage
of this imaged bad state.The removal of
all it's pride from this infernal's sad
fate.Cleanup and replanting may take
awhile...Restoring it's beauty from man's
careless defile! 01-09-2006'.
2006 Michael Jeffrey Gale
Uncontrollably weeping I reach for my phone
I ring him up and get an out of service tone
I know he's away and that's all I'll hear
But somehow when I call him I feel he's near
I write him a message that he'll never read
I have this crazy impulse, this urgent need
I know its irrational, I know its insane
But it helps me through the day and eases the pain
One night, in the dead of night
Seven girls, one guy
Watched the torture of a girl on TV
The most disturbing, terrifying horror movie
When the film reached the end
Three girls and the guy got up and left
Way past curfew, to the park
With hopes to get scared in the dark
While the other four girls' stayed at home
Trying to figure out where to go
Something else was happening...
Shallow, low, and backstabbing
The one guy in the group stole a bottle of brandy
From my, one of the girls', kitchen pantry
Did I mention I was his girlfriend?
Having said that, you would think that would have stopped him!
They passed it around
As they sat at the playground
Got a warm, fuzzy tingle
And started to mingle
So I guess,
We'll call her 'S'
And he,
Will be called 'D'
Apparently neither were thinking of me
D licked candy off S's chest
'D' then played with S's breasts
They knew it was wrong, at least she did
But the crime was done, lied and cheated
When they got home and asked if they had fun
They glanced at each other and said 'Uh huh.'
From the guilty look in their twinkling eyes
I had a gut a feeling something wasn't right
Did they really think they would get away with this?
Sweep it under the rug? Throw a blanket over it?
Well in my book those aren't the rules
I don't play like that, you fools
As the night went on
Tears were shed
Trust was gone
Apologies made
Sincere hugs gave
The love had stayed
At least some, anyway
D never made an apology
D never kissed and made up with me
He just grinned and held his head high
He just stuck his chest to the sky
Pretending everything was just alright
Not even thinking of this crazy night
In the end, I thought long and hard
Gave him a second chance for a new start
But he never did clean up his act
So eventually I told him,
'Hit the road Jack! '
A little word called crazy
Which people use when they are being lazy.
The word crazy covers a multi of goods and ills
Mad, bad, sad, cool
or even acting the fool.
It's used in our everyday language
But it's often misunderstood
But it fits into sentences so well (and so good)
Sometimes you can't seem to see the origins for this word
it sounds so absurd the way its used and abused
like crazy baby, crazy sin, a crazy outer and a crazy in!
Crazy actually means mad insane or foolish
so says the dictionary
but you can be crazy in love with someone
perhaps we are all crazy to be using this word
maybe it's so absurd that you can use it in so many ways
in everyday life.
But the English language is good like that!
Why do I feel so down and alone?
My heart is so cold and icy
like icebergs in the Atlantic
and it's frozen fingers
touch and chill me to the bone.
Am I crazy or am I sane?
Got these depressing thoughts
circling like angry sharks in my brain
Is it false or is it true?
Can I really believe what i'm told by you?
my mind is going cookcoo,
And it is all because of the stupid un-thinking things you do.
30/12/05
Am I crazy?
Yes, i'm crazy
The craziness flow
in my heart
Through the darkness
in your eyes
I'm crazy
in you
This is a poem that for me elaborates a little about the thought-provoking word ‘crazy’.
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Stop!
They all look at me
With words spelling ‘Crazy’
Stop! Stop! Stop! Am I crazy?
I forever rant my thoughts to my daisy,
She stands in a vase all day playing lazy
Stop! Does this make me crazy?
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
An adult who still sleeps fondly with a doll
Is usually described ‘a screwball’
Stop! So am I crazy?
So what is crazy?
Talking to yourself alone on the day bus
Walking the street naked without a just cause
Sleeping under your bed daily without giving a toss
Speaking to the mirror, stating you are the boss
shitting in public, wondering why they are making such a fuss
Walking and talking like a man, instead of a lady
This poem is crazy
Stop! So am I crazy?
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Ranting away in my new mental home
Doctors have labeled me half-baked
Simply because of a normal mistake
I stopped acting normal
First lost all my pals, labeling me ‘Animal’
When I’m only a meat and fish cannibal
I'm accused of being mentally deranged
Because I shouted in the supermarket
as I was dollar short-changed
They say I’m mentally unstable
Pump me up daily with drugs
While tied to the bed with crazy cables
Now who is the vicious thug?
But my thoughts are still perfectly capable
Of comprehending the new meaning of crazy
What is normal?
What is crazy?
How are we so damn sure, normal is not crazy?
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Blah, Blah, Blah, the Blah!
Stop! Stop! Stop! Am I crazy?
Not have another cigarette, you surely must be jesting
It is my sense of humour that you can only be testing
You obviously don't realise that without them I cannot function
I must have them before breakfast, after dinner and after luncheon
I must have them when I'm anxious and have them when relaxed
I must have them when I'm on the phone and when I smell a rat
I must have them when I concentrate and have them when I rest
I must have them watching television and have them on a quest
I must have them in the daylight and have them when night falls
I must have them when a short time passes or even no time passing at all
I must have them when I see them or when they're out of sight
I must have them first thing in the morning and the very last thing at night
I must have them when I'm talking and have them when I'm breathing
I must have them when I'm walking and have them when I'm sneezing
Do you understand what I am trying to tell you?
I must have them
(Sydney, Australia - 2003)
Call me crazy,
But I’m beginning to think that maybe,
Maybe she was right.
Perhaps it’s time for you to take flight,
Leave me sitting here, cursed,
So you can be with the friend who comes first.
I defended you, said you were a friend,
But I think it’s time for those words to come to an end.
I once heard: “Love many, trust few”
I thought I trusted you, but now I see that this friendship isn’t true.
I waved to you and said “Hi, ”
Now I’m waving, but this time saying “Bye.”
Soon, I’ll cry and make a big deal,
I’ll cry, but I’ll keep this promise sealed.
Just like Taylor said, “I can’t breath without you,
But I have too.”
It’s beginning to get cold
It feels like, to you, my heart’s been sold.
I go sit on the cold ground out side,
And abide for you to choose your side.
Have you ever thought that maybe, your wrong, not me?
Perhaps that’s the key.
Now you can say you’re sorry all you want,
But know she was right again, you’re not.
You’re not Sorry.
What about tonight I said?
The big box in the window
My mum is short on money again
I feel that it's a sin though
We'll go tonight,
Stand outside shops
You’re on guard
Incase of cops
I burst through the door
Elderly couple, surprise
Fall from step what a blunder
Grab the box noise like thunder
Turn to see if couples gaining
Disbelief, faces remaining
Turn handle wrong way
Fight with it until I stray
Where's my school friend lookout
Half way up the hill
Wait for me I start to shout
Couple, still at till
We ran and ran, fools us both, up hill
Regret and relief set in
My Mothers Birthday tomorrow
Regret and relief turn to sorrow
Next morning I awake
To see mum eat evidence
How could you afford such a gift?
I feel it’s far from providence
Oh if I could turn back the clock
And tell that boy 'No Way'
Or teach about a conscience
That might keep him from going astray.
Crazy 'bout a Mercury
That's what Alan Jackson means
Willie Nelson and Sheryl Crowe
Are pimping new blue jeans
They must think we're idiots
And don't know how to think
Aerosmith is selling Buicks
Britney's telling me what to drink
Frank Sinatra wants me
To use my Visa card again
Chris Isaak thinks I need
Yet another Heineken
Lynyrd Skynyrd says Busch beer
Is what a simple man should find
Wait a minute...a simple man?
Is there any other kind?
Madonna knows which make-up
I should always use
The Beach Boys wanna send me
On a Carnival Cruise
Shania has a Chevy for me
Now her I'd like to please
Or buy an Apple computer
From the Black-Eyed Peas
Do these people use these products?
Do they even give a hoot?
Will they sell their songs to anyone?
Like a musical prostitute
You ought to use the stuff you're selling
Take the time to get to know 'em
Hmmm...I wonder if the Zoloft folks
Would want to buy a poem?
there once was a crazy animal
that liked to roll in a ball
then one fall
there was a call
for the crazy animal
the call put the crazy animal was apauled
The party was great
I was having a good time
Laughing and dancing
I was coming up for air
From the life of the party
Standing on the balcony
In the fresh autumn air
It seemed to penetrate my skin
Leaving me refreshed
I stepped back inside
Smiling at my many friends
I’m watching the couples
Decide and others wait
I’m pouring myself
Another absolut vodka
When it hits my lips
My personal anguish
Comes through the door
With the bearded man
On a short leash of course
It only brings back
Awful moments
What is in her face?
That is so familiar
Is her face
From another life?
I look the other way
Having out grown her
We have the same friends
Which makes awkward meets?
I shake hands
With the bearded man
Thinking what does she see in that?
Cause I’m like Brad Pitt
Compared to that
Maybe it’s the pocket
Full of coke
As she smiles at me
She sniffles a little
I hug her
And kiss her on the lips
Just so the bearded man
Gets unglued for a moment
And doubts himself
She sends her pet
For a couple of beers
My crazy beach of an ex-wife
Looks pretty hot
In the little black dress
But I’m sure
That is part of the plan
She looks me in the eyes
And says our fifteen years
Wasn’t so bad
Maybe for her, not me!
The bearded man then appears
Wearing a frown
But she jerks his leash
Making him heel
Just then, Megan my date
Rescues me with a hug
And a juicy kiss
Now the bearded man smiles
And crazy beach of an ex-wife
Is frowning
I just tip my head
Grin and pull Megan
Towards the door
Wanting to Make-Love
Not Strife anymore
Crazy boy
Is acting strange
This days
I think
Crazy boy
Is loosing his mind
Bright skin tight
a crazy canary yellow
jeans
my pride & joy
(my first Versace)
took a lot
of balls
to wear ‘em
but then
I got
‘em!
My mother hated
(with a vengeance)   them
(hated to pieces)
them
until one morning early
up with the crow of the cock
I cut them
myself to pieces
“Snick snack! ” sniggered
the scissors
(good for a laugh)
threw the shreds of the threads
up upon the roof
let an hour or so
pass
and then discovering
my own(the devil’s)   handiwork
accused her
of the dastardly deed.
Who else(I said)
wanted the jeans dead?
Who hated them
with such a passion
to do such...such
a thing.
Maybe she thought...
“I did it in my(God forgive)   sleep.”
“Although I know
I didn’t do it
it’s what I would have wanted done.”
After hours
struggling like a worm
I let her off the hook
confess it was I
that done them
(the jeans)    in.
She annoyed at the spoof
that took her in
but delighted at the demise
of those damn things.
The hearty laugh of then
the feeble smile of now
as she(here is this hospital)
tries not to die.
Crazy Circus (just a wrap)
We’re runnin’ like chickens with our heads cut off,
Squealing like piggies round the old food trough,
Stuck on a treadmill and we can’t get off,
It’s a crazy circus
Lost and confused, walkin in a trance,
Common sense needs a second chance,
But time is runnin out gotta change our stance,
Such a crazy circus
Just lookin’ for respect we think we know
But the real truth is you reap what you sow
Under the bigtop we’re up on the stage
Spillin’ and killin’ lost in a rage
Why can’t we just turn the page
Of this crazy circus
Strutin’ our stuff actin’ real cool
Posin’ in the mirror ready for a duel
Now who do you think is the real fool
What a crazy circus
The old ringmaster we’re the main attraction
Always lookin’ for some kind of action
Spinnin’ our wheels losin’ our traction
In this crazy circus
Just lookin’ for respect we act like we know
But the real truth is you reap what you sow
Gomer LePoet...
Explaining language rules to a five year old,
Can certainly be brain hacking.
I tried and cajoled,
But it only got more whacking.
I got real exasperated;
And Joan, more aggravated.
Why ‘Hand’ is singular, plural ‘Hands’
So are Trains, Cars and Trams.
But why Joan’s pretty Foot
Is not ‘Foots’ but Feet?
I’m vexed to answer why-
When I purchase, I Buy.
When tears roll, I cry.
But it is still incorrect;
If  ‘Buies’  appear in a sentence;
But ‘Cries’ is correct in presence.
Anne’s dog barks and she can hear it loud and clear;
But the tree barks, is not the same to hear.
‘Bite’ is a verb and so is a ‘bark’
So here is a new saying for Bill Gates dog.
“His bark is worse than his Byte! ’
But I cannot voice why, to a learner;
The day is cold, wet, or hot.
What a hot sun! ! Is never taught!
Nor the snow is cold, or the rain is wet.
You can get into a fit, and is totally silly.
‘Cause it is true in a Simile.
Ann spelt   S-I-G-H; She wrote  C-L-O-N-E
But went through a storm
Explaining the norm
Cyclone is not Sighclone.
The phone is an instrument
An electronic one as that.
Then should I write a ‘Pre’ or a ‘Post’
To reschedule my plans?
Goose is to Gander, Berry is to fruit.
Gooseberry now, has a gender issue?
And so it can be true
To say Bananaberry and Grapeberry,
Because they are berries too.
I sat finally perplexed, when she asked
“Did you see a Mango on a Coconut tree! ? ”
Yes of course! She said with glee.
A Man go on a coconut tree is possible!
In India everything is adorable! !
I am crazy enough to jump off a bridge for you
Even when i have seen you only ounce.
I am crazy enough to still be thining about you
Even when i know nohting of you at all
crazy enough to build castles in the sky
crazy enough to imagine you and me
crazy enoughto never see
the lie of you
I am crazy enough to stand in the rain
so i might see you once more
crazy enough to follow you home
so i can see you for a while
and i am crazy enough to want to be your
sickness so that you might go unhindered
crazy enough that no pain hurts me deeply
crazy enough that i cant let go
i am crazy enough to want to die for you
and there is nothing known about you
i am crazy enoughto want to kidnap you
and watch you gorw old in the cupboard of my mind
crazy enough to kill you so i might have you forever
crazy enough to only think
' if not mine no one else's'
crazy enouhg that i might want to haunt you
I am crazy enough to hear what i want
crazy enough to hurt you so i might love you more
crazy enough to offer my soul
for you
crazy enouhg to want to
be you
i am crazy enough to say that
i dont know you except by sight
but i love you all the same
I wrote this poem when a girl at my school got beaten up by other girls after daring to go for a night out to another village near her own.
I left the house looking for fun
My mum shouted out 'Don't be long.'
I'd suffered before,
Echoes in my head:
'You don't belong! ! you don't belong.! ! '
Love and Hate, do they equate?
I sat on the form, doing the norm:
drinking cider and beer,
unleashing the fear.
Love and Hate, Love and Hate.
Then they arrived, full of pride,
Crazy eyes,
Chanting ' You don't belong! ! you don't belong! ! '
I tried to negate,
I could taste their hate.
'You don't belong, you don't belong.'
The boots went in,
Head started to spin,
'You don't belong, you don't belong.'
When I awoke  mum was there,
Full of despair,
All she said  'I told you don't be long.'
Love and Hate, do they equate?
'Don't be long.' 'You Don't belong.'
Am I crazy, for feeling the way
that I do?
For every waking moment my
thoughts are all of you.
If I lost the bliss of your sweet
kiss, I know not what i'd do.
I would pine away in just one day.
This I know is true.
~
Am I crazy, when this is the way
I feel?
Should I pinch myself to find out
if this feeling is really real? The
beauty of your love has my head
all in a spin. As my heart beats
mellifluously and deep for you
within.
~
Am I crazy, for craving your love
that's so divine?
For needing to hold you closely
in these loving arms of mine.
Darling if i'm crazy for loving you
the way that I do. If I am my love
please keep it, our little secret.
Just between me and you....
********************************** ******
~TJW~
A perfect man?
Is there such a thing?
Have you fallen off a bin?
One with lot's of money
and lips as sweet as honey.
Everything he says, seem so funny
with a desirable chest, flat tummy.
You must be delusional
because these requests are quite unusual.
A perfect man?
Don't you dare say that again.
I got a friend,
who's not cruel
to the mirrors only,
but...
to me,
to my eyes,
to my soul,
and to my heart too
with sweet gestures
and killing smiles
like Mona Liza
© Afzal Shauq
Succulent chicken
roasting on the barbeque
is turned as we turn
and tan ourselves golden brown.
Soon...chicken in you...me too!
*******
Kamikaze gnat
in crazy attack up my
left nostril...I....sneeze
repelling his invasion.
No! It's not...a pretty sight
Crazy was he,
As crazy as can be!
No one else was crazier than he,
No one was that crazy for me!
In his eyes was adoration,
From his lips was admiration.
But, in his heart there was LOVE!
And that was a problem never to be solved.
For he kept on coming,
While I kept on running.
He kept on trying,
While I kept on lying.
Yes, it was a problem without a solution,
But he took the risk of this situation.
To me, I salute this young man honestly,
For all the effort he's put in for me!
! ! ! CRAZY HAPPY! ! !
Little butterflies
flutter
from flower to flower
hour after hour.
! ! ! FENG KUANG GAO XING! ! !
Shao hudie
fei wu fei wu fei wu
yu hua yu hua
xiao shi    hou    xiao shi
I spin around with may arms stretched,
Focused on the star lit sky,
Memories of an amazing night etched,
Fresh in my optimistic mind,
Just hoping, preying nothing will go wrong,
Scared of being in my past,
For now just an actress playing right along,
I just wanna wear a mask,
To hide the terror that over takes my bravery,
What if? What if? ? What if? !
Will it happen? Or will I be sold back into slavery?
No? Then here I go off the cliff,
Yes? Then I will have 'died and gone to heaven'
I'll I can do is hope, please?
Will never believe, if ever, until exactly When,
I discover if I have a neurological disease,
Or if this is for real, and I'm not crazy.
Yes, I am THAT kid...
The crazy kid...
The kid who says whatever they want
Without thought to anyone
Get in my way,
I'll spit on your shoe!
There's nothing I care about when it comes to you...
Or is there?
Because behind every person there is a soul
And some of us are leaders,
And some of us are lost
Me?
I'm a lost leader!
Leading others into lost with me,
Like getting lost is the new trend
Don't know who you are?
No ambition?
That's cool.
Because that seems to be the 'in' thing these days...
Getting lost...
It's cool
Cool to be stupid, cool to be confused,
Cool to look to something outside yourself
Something else to abuse
Something to set. you. straight.
To make your head EXPLODE!
Cause that's what it's all about.
Making the next big bang
Without no one seeing it
Then crying how no one notices you
You know what you do then?
Ask for a pill
Go ahead.
Ask.
They're everywhere!
You can't stop in the street
Without a pill beneath your feet
Or a heart that doesn't beat
With a medicated meat
So desert your dreams
Let go of ambition
To become lost and crazy
Is today's only mission
The phone rings
I jump
Is it him?
It’s him!
Finally
I take a deep breath
And flip open my phone
Hello?
I ask casually
Smiling sweetly
He answers
Hey, it’s me
My heart skips a beat
When I hear his voice
His beautiful baritone voice
When he tells me he misses me
I feel chills through my spine
In my mind
I can see
His chocolate brown eyes
Twinkling, shining as he looks my way
His gorgeous grin
His every little move
Drives me crazy
Everything about him
Makes me crazy
So guess I must be
Crazy
Crazy in love
YOUR ALWAYS ON MIND
BECAUSE YOUR SO KIND
I LOVE YOU SO
WHEN WE'RE APART
YOU SHOULD KNOW
I MISS YOU SO
CRAZY IN LOVE
THAT'S WHO YOU THINK I AM
BUT WHAT I DON'T CARE
BECAUSE LOVE IS WHAT I SHARE
CRAZY IN LOVE
BABY YOUR ALWAYS ON MY MIND
I GUESS I'M
CRAZY IN LOVE
all alone in this crazy home trapped in this room
no one here to talk too
but what i hear a whisperin soul
i am not crazy
the walls begin to make strange faces the devil itself
no i am not crazy
where did these scars come from i didnt do this
it was that shadow of darkness
no i'm definitely not crazy
who is dat woman in the bloody white gown
a slit at the throat the fire in her eyes
i am not crazy
docters come to give me my dosage
dead
cut to pieces
blood every where
my insides are my outsides
they said i was crazy
but i'm not i'm insane
I know, although when looks meet
I tremble to the bone,
The more I leave the door unlatched
The sooner love is gone,
For love is but a skein unwound
Between the dark and dawn.
A lonely ghost the ghost is
That to God shall come;
I - love's skein upon the ground,
My body in the tomb -
Shall leap into the light lost
In my mother's womb.
But were I left to lie alone
In an empty bed,
The skein so bound us ghost to ghost
When he turned his head
passing on the road that night,
Mine must walk when dead.
Bring me to the blasted oak
That I, midnight upon the stroke,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
May call down curses on his head
Because of my dear Jack that's dead.
Coxcomb was the least he said:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Nor was he Bishop when his ban
Banished Jack the Journeyman,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor so much as parish priest,
Yet he, an old book in his fist,
Cried that we lived like beast and beast:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
The Bishop has a skin, God knows,
Wrinkled like the foot of a goose,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor can he hide in holy black
The heron's hunch upon his back,
But a birch-tree stood my Jack:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Jack had my virginity,
And bids me to the oak, for he
(all find safety in the tomb.)
Wanders out into the night
And there is shelter under it,
But should that other come, I spit:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
I found that ivory image there
Dancing with her chosen youth,
But when he wound her coal-black hair
As though to strangle her, no scream
Or bodily movement did I dare,
Eyes under eyelids did so gleam;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
When She, and though some said she played
I said that she had danced heart's truth,
Drew a knife to strike him dead,
I could but leave him to his fate;
For no matter what is said
They had all that had their hate;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
Did he die or did she die?
Seemed to die or died they both?
God be with the times when I
Cared not a thraneen for what chanced
So that I had the limbs to try
Such a dance as there was danced -
Love is like the lion's tooth.
That lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go;
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.
'Love is all
Unsatisfied
That cannot take the whole
Body and soul';
And that is what Jane said.
'Take the sour
If you take me
I can scoff and lour
And scold for an hour.'
"That's certainly the case,' said he.
'Naked I lay,
The grass my bed;
Naked and hidden away,
That black day';
And that is what Jane said.
'What can be shown?
What true love be?
All could be known or shown
If Time were but gone.'
'That's certainly the case,' said he.
I AM tired of cursing the Bishop,
(Said Crazy Jane)
Nine books or nine hats
Would not make him a man.
I have found something worse
To meditate on.
A King had some beautiful cousins.
But where are they gone?
Battered to death in a cellar,
And he stuck to his throne.
Last night I lay on the mountain.
(Said Crazy Jane)
There in a two-horsed carriage
That on two wheels ran
Great-bladdered Emer sat.
Her violent man
Cuchulain sat at her side;
Thereupon'
Propped upon my two knees,
I kissed a stone
I lay stretched out in the dirt
And I cried tears down.
I care not what the sailors say:
All those dreadful thunder-stones,
All that storm that blots the day
Can but show that Heaven yawns;
Great Europa played the fool
That changed a lover for a bull.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
To round that shell's elaborate whorl,
Adorning every secret track
With the delicate mother-of-pearl,
Made the joints of Heaven crack:
So never hang your heart upon
A roaring, ranting journeyman.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
I met the Bishop on the road
And much said he and I.
'Those breasts are flat and fallen now,
Those veins must soon be dry;
Live in a heavenly mansion,
Not in some foul sty.'
'Fair and foul are near of kin,
And fair needs foul,' I cried.
'My friends are gone, but that's a truth
Nor grave nor bed denied,
Learned in bodily lowliness
And in the heart's pride.
'A woman can be proud and stiff
When on love intent;
But Love has pitched his mansion in
The place of excrement;
For nothing can be sole or whole
That has not been rent.'
What is it that you see, when you
look across your life through the
debris?  Do you see your ideas,
memories and dreams or do you
see what you still could be?
What of the places you once
longed to go or the love you
thought you would now know?
Are you filled with regret in
constant lament or are you still
trying to grow?  When you close
your eye’s at night in gentle sleep
do you still see me?
I am holding a knife
By which to end my life
Driving it through my guts
You may consider me nuts
But i dare to swear
That i`ll be there
Meeting in paradise
Life would be fair
Following you to hell
Shows you how much i care
Please, end your life
I know we will survive
Use the same knife
So love can bring us alive
Crazy Loneliness Hijacks Memory of a Beautiful Girl
Last night
I missed you so much
I made love to
your nightdress
... passionately.
Now your nightdress
hides from me
slinks under covers and pillows
avoids my eyes.
I can't take another night  without you!
Your nightie can't take another night with me!
I am holding your dresses hostage
threatening them with kisses...caresses
if they make one false move.
Your other clothes
tremble in the wardrobe
...come back to me!
Every time when you talk to me,
I feel you love me.
Every time when you look at me,
I feel you love me.
Every time when you be with me,
I feel you love me.
Though,
When I want to be with you,
You go away.
When I want to look at you,
You look away.
When I want to talk to you,
You dont talk.
This makes me think..
Why you care for me,
Why you need me,
Why you miss me,
If you don't love,
Why you cry for me? ? ?
this feels awful
i'm not sure loving you
is worth the pain
you can either make
or break my day
by your attention
or lack of it
you are quickly
becoming something
close to an obsession
i like everything there
is about you
your eyes say it all
you move about zombie-like
my enchanted master
deep down i know
you lack the courage to
tell it like it is
so instead you stare
sometimes winking
at your love slave
willing to risk nothing
you can keep your
hungry eyes and empty arms
your well-kept secrets
i'll keep my fantasies
and shattered dreams
then crawl back into my shell
and silently mourn for
the love which is just
out of my reach
A guy came to me the other day saying some crazy stuff
He said he hate what  I do  and what i stand for, to not hit him was ruff
Why do people tend to not look from outside of the boots
I say they need to read a history book on american roots
Some of the comments I hear, I see people can be very crazy
They dont see the pride in the soldiers I fight with daily
Out here where Im at, we are all we got
Even tho we know americans back home got our back
I wish that guy could have seen the day a lil iraqi boy gave me a flower
He said thank you america for your courage and power
His english was kind of broken but I knew what he ment to say
We made it so at least that one lil boy can come back out and play
At my level we dont see saving the world
All we see is making a way for some little boy or little girl
So think twice when you approach me with somthing crazy to say
I fight for so much more than what you saw on the news today
So go have sweet dreams and sleep peaceful tonite
All will be secure, cause american soldiers will continue to fight
I see a crazy man by the door,
He is old and worn.
He wears a blanket over his head,
Likes to be unknown.
He looks up and above,
Glancing far and wide,
He is the man everyone frights.
I see a crazy man by the door,
And out of sight.
He yells and screams till dawn,
And retreats once we are gone.
For he is the crazy man I see by the door every night.
You just don't relies how greatly I do care
Or maybe you do
I want to tell you things I shouldn't feel or that's what they say
I can bight my tongue
And hold back
The things we both feel
I want to tell you there is someone out there that really does care
I will just tell you that you are the man that makes me
A lost of words
‘Cause I know words will never be enough to give to you
You are the person that I look forward to each day,
The one that makes my day smile again even though my tears
Just to hear your voice makes my worries melt away
Your not just a man in first or second your the man.
The man of my waves and my fire
Will you be the one man to finally tame the restless storm?
Shall I kiss all my crazy immature nights’ goodbye?
Do I have to grow up drastically again?
Will I live and breathe within your eyes?
Like all my hope has desired
My heart flutters and may belong to you but only time will tell
How do I hang something up
When it's all that I know
As I see my crazy nights’ turn gray and disappearing in
The shadows of the last foot steps I take
The person I am stepping towards pulls too hard at times
Makes the brave turn weak
But maybe that’s what I need
Only time will tell
I got to thinking about all those people
who do crazy things! ! ! You know,
the ones that make the
news and the magazines
for that CRAZY
STUFF they do?
Well, I figured it out!
They are all crazy people!
Yeah the real nutz!
So does it work in reverse?
So do crazy things happen
that make people crazy?
Or, do crazy people make
crazy things happen?
Yeah, how crazy is that?
My babe thinks I'm crazy
Crazy for feeling this way
Thinking she's the best thing in the world
Wanting to spend the rest of my life with her
Crazy for looking at her certain ways
Like shes the only one in the room
Crazy for dazing of into her eyes
Or looking at her like shes a goddess
Crazy for loving her so much
Crazy for constantly writing her poems
Crazy for asking her to marry me
My fiance thinks I'm crazy
You’ve helped me through rough times
I can’t believe you are mine
But still I can’t get out of my depressed state
I want death to be my fate
You say to stop my pessimistic view of life
You say you want me to be your wife
But I can’t, unless I change
I want to be myself, no more shall I act strange.
“Crazy”
Is it just me?
Or am I just crazy?
Where did I go?
That I don’t know
Alone in the darkness
Nothing but sadness
Crying dirty tears
It seems like my eyes never clear
No hope!
Nope
No faith!
Can’t take
No happiness!
Nothing but sadness
No love!
I know it’s only coming from above
No life
No life
Am I crazy?
Or is it just me?
crazy
1.
Oh yes, friend! I'm crazy-
that's just the way I am.
2.
I see sounds,
I hear sights,
I taste smells,
I touch not heaven but things from the underworld,
things people do not believe exist,
whose shapes the world does not suspect.
Stones I see as flowers
lying water-smoothed by the water's edge,
rocks of tender forms
in the moonlight
when the heavenly sorceress smiles at me,
putting out leaves, softening, glistening,
throbbing, they rise up like mute maniacs,
like flowers, a kind of moon-bird's flowers.
I talk to them the way they talk to me,
a language, friend,
that can't be written or printed or spoken,
can't be understood, can't be heard.
Their language comes in ripples to the moonlit Ganges banks,
ripple by ripple-
oh yes, friend! I'm crazy-
that's just the way I am.
3.
You're clever, quick with words,
your exact equations are right forever and ever.
But in my arithmetic, take one from one-
and there's still one left.
You get along with five senses,
I with a sixth.
You have a brain, friend,
I have a heart.
A rose is just a rose to you-
to me it's Helen and Padmini.
You are forceful prose
I liquid verse.
When you freeze I melt,
When you're clear I get muddled
and then it works the other way around.
Your world is solid,
mine vapor,
yours coarse, mine subtle.
You think a stone reality;
harsh cruelty is real for you.
I try to catch a dream,
the way you grasp the rounded truth of cold, sweet coin.
I have the sharpness of the thorn,
you of gold and diamonds.
You think the hills are mute-
I call them eloquent.
Oh yes, friend!
I'm free in my inebriation-
that's just the way I am.
4.
In the cold of the month of Magh
I sat
warming to the first white heat of the star.
the world called me drifty.
When they saw me staring blankly for seven days
after I came back from the burning ghats
they said I was a spook.
When I saw the first marks of the snows of time
in a beautiful woman's hair
I wept for three days.
When the Buddha touched my soul
they said I was raving.
They called me a lunatic because I danced
when I heard the first spring cuckoo.
One dead-quite moon night
breathless I leapt to my feet,
filled with the pain of destruction.
On that occasion the fools
put me in the stocks,
One day I sang with the storm-
the wise men
sent me off to Ranchi.
Realizing that same day I myself would die
I stretched out on my bed.
A friend came along and pinched me hard
and said, Hey, madman,
your flesh isn't dead yet!
For years these things went on.
I'm crazy, friend-
that's just the way I am.
5.
I called the Navab's wine blood,
the painted whore a corpse,
and the king a pauper.
I attacked Alexander with insults,
and denounced the so-called great souls.
The lowly I have raised on the bridge of praise
to the seventh heaven.
Your learned pandit is my great fool,
your heaven my hell,
your gold my iron,
friend! Your piety my sin.
Where you see yourself as brilliant
I find you a dolt.
Your rise, friend-my decline.
That's the way our values are mixed up,
friend!
Your whole world is a hair to me.
Oh yes, friend, I'm moonstruck through and through-
moonstruck!
That's just the way I am.
6.
I see the blind man as the people's guide,
the ascetic in his cave a deserter;
those who act in the theater of lies
I see as dark buffoons.
Those who fail I find successful,
and progress only backsliding.
am I squint-eyed,
Or just crazy?
Friend, I'm crazy.
Look at the withered tongues of shameless leaders,
The dance of the whores
At breaking the backbone on the people's rights.
When the sparrow-headed newsprint spreads its black lies
In a web of falsehood
To challenge Reason-the hero in myself-
My cheeks turn red, friend,
red as molten coal.
When simple people drink dark poison with their ears
Thinking it nectar-
and right before my eyes, friend! -
then every hair on my body stands up stiff
as the Gorgon's serpent hair-
every hair on me maddened!
When I see the tiger daring to eat the deer, friend,
or the big fish the little,
then into my rotten bones there comes
the terrible strength of the soul of Dadhichi
and tries to speak, friend,
like the stormy day crashing down from heaven with the lightning.
When man regards a man
as not a man, friend,
then my teeth grind together, all thirty-two,
top and bottom jaws,
like the teeth if Bhimasena.
And then
red with rage my eyeballs rool
round and round, with one sweep
like a lashing flame
taking in this inhuman human world.
My organs leap out of theirs frames-
uproar! Uproar!
my breathing becomes a storm,
my face distorted, my brain on fire, friend!
with a fire like those that burn beneath the sea,
like the fire that devours the forests,
frenzied, friend!
as one who would swallow the wide world raw.
Oh yes, my friend,
the beautiful chakora am I,
destroyer of the ugly,
both tender and cruel,
the bird that steals the heaven's fire,
child of the tempest,
spew of the insane volcano,
terror incarnate.
Oh yes, friend,
my brain is whirling, whirling-
that's just the way I am.
Published.1953.
(Translated from original Nepali version)
Can’t help, starin’ at you
Wonderin’ what the hell is on you
Can’t help, lookin’ at you
Your thoughtful eyes
Is all I’m thinkin’ of
Refrain:
Boy, you got me on my feet
You make my heart skip a beat
Can you tell me what I feel
Is this love that I’m feeling
Chorus:
Boy, I’m crazy
Tell me, am I crazy
When I let myself fall
When I hardly even know you
Boy, I’m crazy
Tell me that I’m crazy
When I said that love
Won’t have a chance
But why the hell did I give you
The chance of a lifetime
(To love me)
Ooh…
Crazy
Can’t help, fallin’ for you
With just one smile
You melt my worries away
Can’t help, wonderin’ to myself
Why I’m feeling so in love with you
Refrain 2:
Boy, you’re not everything
That I’ve always dreaming
Can you give me all the reasons
Why my heart should feel this way
For you
(Repeat Chorus)
0oh woah
Bridge:
I can’t understand myself
I can’t understand this heart
So why don’t you just
Prove it all to me
That you deserve my everything
When I said that I wouldn’t love again
But now my heart is screaming your name
Every time you yell,
It's almost like a bridge collapsing.
Every time I cry,
It's like I'm about to reach my breaking point.
These scars on my arms aren't just scars.
They tell stories.
When you get in my face.
I'll make sure I will punch you.
Get too close
I'll shove you away
Break my heart
I'll just walk away.
You see...
You don't scare me.
You don't frighten me.
You don't intimidate me.
So just walk away and forget.
Nothing happened you see.
You are just going crazy..
Thoughts are jumbled in my mind as they roll and tumble undefined......CRAZY
< br>
Copyright 2009 OneLine Poet
I made you crazy
I drove a man crazy
and yet I dont know how I made him crazy
it wasnt fair for him to be crazy
Im sorry for making you crazy
I wish I could take your place and I be crazy
tell me a way show me a way and make me crazy
my heart hurts cause I made my friend crazy
Please change I dont want you to be crazy
Someone help him, help him, he's crazy
take away his pain that made him crazy
I dont like how I made him crazy
I didnt do it on purpose, I didnt even know I was making him crazy
I wish I could take it all back and he leave me crazy
When darkness spread
All were dead,
Animals, freedom and all.
Terrain was moved
The sky was grooved,
The earth started to call.
Crazy crazy life is lest
Once thou, the best of best,
Now we shall never rest,
Crazy crazy is the crest.
When darkness spread
All were dead,
Animals, freedom and all.
The earth in despair
Will take the share,
For CRAZY is the fall.
Have you ever
Stood for one moment
Stopped everything
And gave a thought
About today?
Have you ever
For one minute
Stopped  everything
And looked round you
And appreciated the view?
Have you ever
For an instant
Stopped everything
And felt bright
That you are part of this planet?
Have you ever
For a second
Stopped everything you do
And felt proud
Cus you are you?
Have you ever
For a trice
Stopped everything you do
And thought about
The people around and
Figured what a helleven hell
It would have been
If they were not around you?
Have you?
Have you?
May be 'yes'
May be 'no'
May be 'I don't care'
May be 'I don’t know'.
18/10/2002
We come from miles away to see you,
For us it is our dream come true….
We feel content after taking a snap with you
We try our best to smile like you….
In this world, you are the most passionate lady
Your simple smile makes the whole world crazy….
Your smile is simple, honest and bright
You are attracting people day and night…
Today, the whole world smiles with you
But, I feel scared to think
What will happen if you cry?
Will you get anybody beside you?
Sometimes when the pain from your absence
Reaches in my body and heart the level ten
I don’t know what to do…
I start hallucinating, shouting, and calling your name
Even I cry silently
Without caring that this is in our eastern society
Is considered a big shame…
What should I do?
Should I call your mobile phone even if you don’t answer?
Should I go to your flat and knock on the door even if you don’t open?
Should I send you an e-mail even if you will not read?
Should I go to the pub and drink till I loose my consciousness?
Should I dance in the middle of the street and sleep all night on the beach?
Should I contact my previous girlfriend and apologize for quitting her?
Should I throw myself in the bed of the first prostitute I will meet?
How should react to all my crazy thoughts?
You know what is best to do
When the pain from your absence
Reaches in my body and heart the level ten…
Is simply to calm down
And leave the speech to my sincere mirror...
To my best friend…
My lovely pen…
Wael Karameh.
October 25,2008.
This world is insane
Now nothing is ever the same
We all playing this vicious game
Of hide and seek without shame
WW3 is about to begin maliciously
As I bleed black fuel
This war game is intelligently cruel
They are nuclear bombing so graciously
the Big-Boss is withdrawing
The underdog is cheering
I tell you people that the world is ending
So get up and run all blaming
This is a chaotic and a crazy world
I conclude in cuffs and chains
As I repent, spin, and twirl
If only the authorities had some brains
The world is upside down
Why are Christians without a sound
While Islam is with a big crown
WW3 is the start of h***
As we burn constantly we all yell
Ring-a-ding I can hear a bell
but we can't hide for we are in a cell
When she talks about love
Does she talk about you
When you feel alive
When you feel unseen
The world is blue
It's raining, so you walk
It's raining, so you talk
Thoughts are the walls
That close your mind down
Your heart once full of love
But shes not around
Maybe you're meant to be alone
In this crazy world
Everyone is on their own
Not everybody is happy
Yet we seem that way
Not everybody is lonely
Yet we seem that way
So when she talks about you
Does she talk about love.
Im Starting to live my life,
Im dancing my crazy dance!
Im singing my favourite song like no one is listening
Im shouting to Rock songs like its how im meant to
Im moshing with no one else around
Join me
Love Life
DANCE that crazy dance,
SING that song out loud
Shout to that Rock song
Mosh like your in a pit
Live Life
Love Life
Going crazy right now
Need some help real bad
He wont leave my mind
And I dont know why
Even after he cheated and lied
No guy could replace this
His causing me so much pain
Yet I know I love him
He plays me like a fool
Says we're over
Than wants a cuddle
It's driving me up the wall
I need to lose him
Get him outta my mind
This just isn't right
I love him to dearly
He doesnt love me
Thats for sure
Im going crazy
He just wont leave
My heart or mind
I go crazy now a day
To esteem you my dear Sun
Your shine, your rays
Hot.. Pierce my skin
Sweat me and drench even
I go crazy now a day
To worship you my dear Moon
Your milky shine, your smiling face
Make me gaze and gaze at you
And lost at you in merry thoughts
I go crazy now a day
To adore you my blue sky
Your sight, you void, beloved plane
Make me feel floating with
Foamy white, and grey folks
Brewing out of frisky frost
I go crazy now a day
To admire you my dear stars
Twinkling with frolic comets
Make me feel jealous of you
To be there, there in glee
Do you know it? why I am
Feeling crazy on you, dear
You only could see my love
Day and night n’ round the clock
So what if I see things?
These hallucinations as you call them,
How are they a big deal?
Maybe it is for real.
And I might be right this time.
Maybe, this is actually happening.
I hope these talking ducks will let me out.
I don't like these ducks.
They wear ugly white coats.
And they try to find out what is wrong with me.
Maybe the world will end today.
Or tomorrow.
And Maybe you will all see that I am not crazy.
I swear I was abducted by aliens the other day.
They had little orange polka-dots.
And they tried to eat my brain.
Maybe I will find a way out of this asylum.
Then I can live a normal life.
A life without any ducks in white coats.
Because I am not insane,
I do not have mental problems,
I have not lost my mind.
So what if i am weird sometimes?
Aren't we all weird,
Inside somewhere?
I might even be more weird than most people are.
But I can assure you,
I am not the least bit crazy!
I am not crazy.
Especially when I am writing.
I get lost in my own world.
A world where everybody is as unique as I am.
So maybe I do imagine things.
Like getting turned into a rhinoceros.
Or flying in the sky.
But am I all that crazy?
No. I am not.
Why not have a little bit of fun?
After all, we are flowers.
How quickly we can fade away.
And eventually, all of our perkiness is gone.
This is true for everybody.
So really, I assure you,
I am perfectly sane.
But I have one question.
When can I leave this asylum?
If the world was crazy, you know what I'd eat?
A big slice of soup and a whole quart of meat,
A lemonade sandwich, and then I might try
Some roasted ice cream or a bicycle pie,
A nice notebook salad, and underwear roast,
An omelet of hats and some crisp cardboard toast,
A thick malted milk made from pencils and daisies,
And that's what I'd eat if the world was crazy.
If the world was crazy, you know what I'd wear?
A chocolate suit and a tie of eclair,
Some marshmallow earmuffs, some licorice shoes,
And I'd read a paper of peppermint news.
I'd call the boys 'Suzy' and I'd call the girls 'Harry,'
I'd talk through my ears, and I always would carry
A paper unbrella for when it grew hazy
To keep in the rain, if the world was crazy.
If the world was crazy, you know what I'd do?
I'd walk on the ocean and swim in my shoe,
I'd fly through the ground and I'd skip through the air,
I'd run down the bathtub and bathe on the stair.
When I met somebody I'd say 'G'bye, Joe,'
And when I was leaving - then I'd say 'Hello.'
And the greatest of men would be silly and lazy
So I would be king... if the world was cazy.
If you think i'm crazy
You should meet my friend
When my madness it is over
She continues to the end
I stand there open speechless
And wondering at times
Whether it is me or she or it
Who have lost their minds
If you think i'm crazy
Then i'd ask you for a while
To put false dreams behind you
And take the time to smile
For if you think i'm crazy
Then there's only one thing left
To reassure your sanity
And always always let
The providence of madness
Strike deep inside your core
For in a mad mad mad mad world
Who could want for more?
I believed you, every word you said
I believed, how stupid I must have been
Didn't my mother tell me that guys always lie
I didn't want to believe it, especially looking into your eyes
the most honest face, who wouldn't trust you
your were like every girls dream come true
We had the makings of something great
but believing in you was just another mistake
I knew it somehow, even in all my doubt
that the guy I knew had not really come out
you were just another guy who lies to get what they want
luckily for me, I woke up
just in time, to correct my mistake
before I made a decision that would make it too late
I could have changed my life for you
rearranged it all
but thankfully I recieved my wake up call
You played with me like the other's, your just about the same
But I'm thankful to you because now I know the game
I'll go crazy
If I have to wait
Much longer for the rain to stop
why does it hurt when i smile?
cut when i call your name?
i think i'll sit alone a while,
and dream of life without pain.
why am i better depressed?
it seems to fit so well.
my fresh cuts still undressed,
high from the bloods smell.
why do you run from me?
i'm really not that bad.
open your heart and now see,
there's a reason that i'm sad.
i'm sorry i cant tell you,
but please don't run away!
don't you know what its like to be hated too?
to fear each second of the day?
you act like i'm a killer,
and like i'm after you.
its just like in a thriller,
your the perfect victim too.
Every since the day I went away and left you
So lonely and cold
What could I do?
I thought about myself
I never meant to hurt you
I had to go away to see if love was through
One day you send me a letter
Telling me that you loved me
And you still care
I broke down and cried
What did I do?
I left a love so true
I’m going crazy
Out my mind, yeah
Don’t think that I’m lazy
To come back to you, girl
I want you to be my lady
I’m so sorry
For leaving me you my baby
Please forgive me
I’ve been so naïve
I’m going crazy
Every word I say is hard to express myself
I have to start somewhere, baby
Can help me?
Save me from myself
I just want to let you know that I love you too
Or else my heart gets broken
What a fool I’ve been
What else can I do?
One day you send me a letter
Telling me that you loved me
And you still care
I broke down and cried
What did I do?
I left a love so true
I’m going crazy
Out my mind, yeah
Don’t think that I’m lazy
To come back to you, girl
I want you to be my lady
I’m so sorry
For leaving me you my baby
Please forgive me
I’ve been so naïve
I’m going crazy
I have to let you I need you so very much
I have to let you I need to feel your touch
I have to let you the things I done was so wrong
I just don't know
But I realize I need your love
Every since you wrote to me
I cannot speak
My eyes are gonna leak
I my heart’s getting so weak
Everything I do
I think of you
What am I gonna do
Tell me if this love is true
One day you send me a letter
Telling me that you loved me
And you still care
I broke down and cried
What did I do?
I left a love so true
I’m going crazy
Out my mind, yeah
Don’t think that I’m lazy
To come back to you, girl
I want you to be my lady
I’m so sorry
For leaving me you my baby
Please forgive me
I’ve been so naïve
I’m going crazy
I have a premonition in my heart
A little touch of a feeling
You'll end up with me
No way have we spent time in anyway
You passing me by changed my life
(Saturday night, under dimmed light, your eyes so shimmering in a crowd of a thousand)
Your going to end up with me
and no, I'm not crazy.
You said you saw something in me
you've never wanted so bad in your life
Everyone thinks I've gone crazy
My heart tells me no, I'm not.
Your hug goodbye made me believe
Your going to fall in love with me with someday
Now that I've made my dream come true
It's only a matter of time you follow my footsteps
and surprise me when I turn around
You said to me, you loved me
and I knew I wasn't crazy...
{Copyright © 2009 by Ice}
I Must be Crazy..Am I?
I was looking for my eyeglasses
Thought i have to go upside down
And not to pick it up
In a normal way
but my knees just wobble
I dont wanna dilly dabble
Think i must be crazy..am i?
My  neighbors just laugh at me, he he he
Seeing me in this position
Nahh, dont mind really
I  am comfortable here  swinging down
They think  i must be crazy
and so am i. LOL.
isn't it crazy how
you cant see things right in front of your eyes
isn't it crazy how
love always seems to slowly die
isn't it crazy how
i fell for you and then fell right back out
isn't it crazy how
your something i can live without
isn't it crazy how
how you put me through a lot
isn't it crazy how
your something i just forgot
It's like I'm going crazy out of my mind
Cause images of you holding my waist from behind
It's crazy how fast I fell in LOVE
Knowing that you're far away I'm missing your kisses and hugs
It's crazy how I can't do any of my work in my classes
Cause the whole time I'm thinking how you keep me laughin
It's crazy how I want to be your wifey
Cause your time is worth more than anything you can buy me
It's crazy how I know we can make sweet music together
And I'll lock you in my heart always and forever.
It's crazy how a person changes,
after you knew them so well.
It's crazy how fast feelings can change,
from heaven into hell.
It's crazy how I thought I knew you,
and you changed right before my eyes.
It's crazy how I thought you were the real thing,
then you pulled on a deceiving disguise.
Forgive me please, I've been a fool.
None other than a fool for you.
Your not the person I once knew,
but I refuse to change myself for you.
I am me and that's all that matters to me.
Now how long will it take you to see,
that i'm done with all the tears I cry.
This is 'i'm sorry' for the last time.
How can you make me feel the worst I
have ever felt in my life and be the
same person that makes me feel
as though I own the world?
© Joe Fazio
In this room right now
There's only me and you
It's just us
No one's around
Smiling to one another
We say the things we want to do
So let's be in love
Let's go insane, let's go crazy
We're only holding out for each other
We're not trying to fall in vain
I'll take your hand and place it over my heart
You take mine and place it over yours
Tonight the candles will burn
Tonight our love will be born
Tonight our love will fall over
And all around us
Tonight our love will not be torn
As we fall in love
As we go insane and go crazy
I am not Emo
I’m not a Goth
I’m perfectly normal
But I know what it feels to be lost
Stuck in the crowd
Can’t hear a sound
Feels like I’m pushed back in the distance
Can’t come out
Do people see?
Do they believe?
Or am I just crazy from being lonely?
The words burst from my lips as I scream
But the people around me don’t seem to hear a thing
Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?
The world is acting like they don’t know about me
Am I forgotten? Am I just crazy?
Am I just lost? Am I just lonely?
Somebody hear me
Somebody save me
I check my phone, nobody calls
I can’t help, but feeling so forgot
I put on a show, nobody knows
Where did all the people I used to love, go?
I see a face, forgot its name
But they don’t seem to recognize me, anyway
All of my friends are with somebody else
And now I’m sitting here all by myself
(All by myself)
The words burst from my lips as I scream
(From my lips, as I scream)
But the people around me don’t seem to hear a thing
(But the people, don’t hear a thing)
Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?
(Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?)
The world is acting like they don’t know about me
(Acting like, don’t know about me)
Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?
(Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?)
Am I just lost? Am I just lonely?
(Am I just lost, maybe I’m lonely)
Somebody hear me
(Somebody near me)
Somebody save me
(Somebody save me)
Or am I just crazy?
Or am I just crazy?
(Maybe, oh maybe)
I took a chance, got sick of the burn
There’s no need of me, to feel so undeserved
People walk by, I try to say hi
But they even try to talk to me, why?
Is it my face? Is it my name?
Or am I just overreacting, and going insane?
I know they see me, I know they see me
So why are they leaving?
Why did they leave me?
The words burst from my lips as I scream
(From my lips, as I scream)
But the people around me don’t seem to hear a thing
(People around me, don’t hear a thing)
Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?
(Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?)
The world is acting like they don’t know about me
(Acting like, don’t know about me)
Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?
(Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?)
Am I just lost? Am I just lonely?
(Am I? , maybe I’m lonely)
Somebody hear me
(Somebody near me)
Somebody save me
(Somebody please save me)
Or am I just crazy?
Or am I just crazy?
(Maybe, oh just maybe)
Live life they say, it’s the only you’ve got
But how can you live? How can you give?
If there’s nothing you’ve got
Well I’ve got myself, and I’ve got my dreams
But I guess I’ll just have to live them separately
Stuck in the shadow, I need someone else
How can I get them to notice me, so I won’t be by myself?
Do you hear?
Do you see?
Or am I just another nobody, who has nothing? (nothing)
The words burst from my lips as I scream
(From my lips, as I scream)
But the people around me don’t seem to hear a thing
(People around me, don’t hear a thing)
Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?
(Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?)
The world is acting like they don’t know about me
(Acting like, they don’t know me)
Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?
(Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?)
Am I just lost? Am I just lonely?
(Am I just lost, maybe I’m lonely)
Somebody hear me
(Somebody near me)
Somebody save me
(Somebody save me)
Or am I just crazy?
Or am I just crazy?
(Maybe, oh maybe just maybe)
When I cry, I only cry to myself
I’m alone; I wish I had somebody else
Oh
When I cry, I only cry to myself
I’m alone; I wish I had somebody else
Oh
When I cry, I only cry to myself
I’m alone; I wish I had somebody else
The words burst from my lips as I scream
(From my lips, as I scream)
But the people around me don’t seem to hear a thing
(People around me, don’t hear a thing)
Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?
(Am I invisible? Am I going crazy?)
The world is acting like they don’t know about me
(Acting like, they don’t know me)
Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?
(Am I forgotten? Am I going crazy?)
Am I just lost? Am I just lonely?
(Am I just lost, maybe I’m lonely)
Somebody hear me
(Somebody near me)
Somebody save me
(Somebody save me)
Or am I just crazy?
(Am I crazy?)
Or am I just crazy?
(Maybe, oh maybe)
Just maybe
Maybe I’m crazy
(Save me)
Maybe I’m crazy
(Don’t forget me)
Maybe I’m crazy
(Don’t go baby no)
Maybe I’m crazy
Just maybe
Maybe
moon, moon, crazy moon
natural moon
torn apart and snoozing moon;
lovely moon, romantic moon
poor poor moon
the romance
plucked out of its drab surface;
moon moon going wild
moon moon running away
from the earth -
O moon, why do you run away from the earth?
does earth touch you in the wrong places
and you've got no Body
to which one could lodge
a complaint about sexual harassment? ?
ah, moon moon, temperamental moon
dark moon
glowing moon;
sexy moon
and old-woman hag of a moon;
moon moon with the best views of the earth
moon moon moon
puts me to sleep and wakes me up
in the middle of nights;
and one day we'll sleep in the moon
and produce babies there
and we'll have the first moon-ish boys and girls
and moon-ly families;
but meanwhile
moon moon driving fanatics
and inspiring love and romance and myths
moon moon eerie moon
moon moon that presides over love and horrors
and evil and good
and naked witches dancing in moonlit groves;
pooor moon moon the earth moon
not as interesting and dramatic as other moons;
don't get too friendly and dropp in -
oh, never dropp in, no one invited you
silly mooonn, no no, you're not invited home to earth
moon moon cheese moon eaten by mice;
but still our dear moon darling moon
moon mooon
our very own earth's moon
as we moo moo like cows
moo moo moo mooo
at our own moon moon moon
MY LAGAN LOVE
Snow falls
in the outside world
flake after flake
clinging for dear life
to the window pane
as it softly
erases our gazes
stuck
upon the glass
the fire
roaring behind us
with all the gusto
of past Christmases
two worlds
existing at once
separated only
by the mind
of the little boy
for whom
it was
always forever
the first time
as if the world
was being
created for him
just that second
as if God had said:
“Look…I have this
idea? ”
sketching it quickly
in white
asking: “Well, …
what do ya think? ”
And then impatiently
rubbing it out
and then
drawing it again
in snow & always
his father’s voice
singing somewhere
in the darkness
MY LAGAN LOVE.
******
C R A Z Y   M A N   M I C H A E L
Unknown woman
lost in the darkness
of an enormous
fireplace
black hair
framing a death
pale face
her dark dress
making her almost
invisible
a singing
floating head
hands
white doves
taking flight in gesture
almost mythical
your voice
tells the tale
of CRAZY MAN MICHAEL
each breath
almost magical
as your voice
shapes his fate
& he kills his own true love
by mistake.
“For his true love
is flown
into every flower grown
& he must be keeper of the garden, ”
Unknown woman
singing in the darkness
always your voice
the tears in my eyes.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
These are two beautiful songs that have stayed with me all through my life…I wouldn’t be without them.
MY LAGAN LOVE would have been first heard on the radio program SUNDAY MISCELENY again and again as an ancient air or sung by man or woman or transformed by Horslips into an electric guitar fantasia.
I loved all versions.
The favorite one being my Dad going out to get coal one childhood Chrsitmas singing a wordless version to himself…his voice hanging in the darkness as bright as any star.
A thing of beauty and my joy for ever.
CRAZY MAN MICHAEL seems like an eternally old ballad dragged back into the future but was actually written by Richard Thompson and sung by the incomparable Sandy Denny. I went to the Grapevine Arts Centre for a folk session and as I entered the door framed in this magnificent fireplace this vision sang this version from her darkness. It was as if LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI had come alive and could sing me to death with her song.
I was stunned and in love with the song ever since!
The bear has received the inheritance,
The grandfather his was richer;
Slept clumsy on a pillow...
The Pillow  probably, not as all…
Yesterday a bear the dream has dreamt,
Thought does not take out, thought will be lost
Bees did not give something sweet
The bear became crazy - a syndrome caries
The bear has jumped out of dens …
The bear runs with a pillow,
And it is a pillow uneasy!
This the inheritance - Pandora's box...
Tbilisi  -  2008
I'm crazy, crazy to write at leisure.
Working, only working will end never.
To serve family, to make all happy
I'm busy with caring for all but me.
Day passes quickly; night comes silently.
Midnight appears and I feel so crazy.
No sleep as 'tis leisure to love my heart.
I leave my pen when sunshine falls on earth.
I'm crazy, crazy to create a new earth.
As my Love is so to caress my heart.
I am crazy, crazy only to fly
On the wings of poesy in a new sky.
No matter if others call me crazy.
For my Love, for my poetry I'm crazy.
By Dipankar Sadhukhan
Kolkata, India.
'Beauty and Truth in Love', No: 61
Copyrights@October23,2014.
All the Sioux were defeated. Our clan
got poor, but a few got richer.
They fought two wars. I did not
take part. No one remembers your vision
or even your real name. Now
the children go to town and like
loud music. I married a Christian.
Crazy Horse, it is not fair
to hide a new vision from you.
In our schools we are learning
to take aim when we talk, and we have
found out our enemies. They shift when
words do; they even change and hide
in every person. A teacher here says
hurt or scorned people are places
where real enemies hide. He says
we should not hurt or scorn anyone,
but help them. And I will tell you
in a brave way, the way Crazy Horse
talked: that teacher is right.
I will tell you a strange thing:
at the rodeo, close to the grandstand,
I saw a farm lady scared by a blown
piece of paper; and at that place
horses and policemen were no longer
frightening, but suffering faces were,
and the hunched-over backs of the old.
Crazy Horse, tell me if I am right:
these are the things we thought we were
doing something about.
In your life you saw many strange things,
and I will tell you another: now I salute
the white man's flag. But when I salute
I hold my hand alertly on the heartbeat
and remember all of us and how we depend
on a steady pulse together. There are those
who salute because they fear other flags
or mean to use ours to chase them:
I must not allow my part of saluting
to mean this. All of our promises,
our generous sayings to each other, our
honorable intentions—those I affirm
when I salute. At these times it is like
shutting my eyes and joining a religious
colony at prayer in the gray dawn
in the deep aisles of a church.
Now I have told you about new times.
Yes, I know others will report
different things. They have been caught
by weak ways. I tell you straight
the way it is now, and it is our way,
the way we were trying to find.
The chokecherries along our valley
still bear a bright fruit. There is good
pottery clay north of here. I remember
our old places. When I pass the Musselshell
I run my hand along those old grooves in the rock.
I promised to write you a poem
Every day in a year.
Every day a new flower.
I promised to write flowers for you
I promised to write you a fairy tale
Every day in a year.
I promised something new
And I promised to collect it.
I promised to keep you high—
You were afraid you might fall.
I promised my words to your throne
To keep the foundation strong
I promised to write your memory,
And rewrite your thoughts.
I promised not to let you fall,
For my words keep the throne.
And after every promise delivered
We were crazier and did not believe
How easy it was to keep promises
And how easy it is to be crazy.
And after every word became a bird,
And every word became a flower,
We knew how good it is to be crazy—
And you loved my madness
Your fear had no basis.
You were comfortable
In your magnificent role.
We promised we would not stop.
We promised never to stop writing poems.
We promised to keep the words flying.
We promised to keep the throne fresh and alive.
We promised to stay crazy.
Riding in the Park, or down town shopping
At the Matinee, or singing in the choir
Everywhere a dazzling blaze of beauty
Blinds my eyes and sets my soul afire
How my heart thumps and how my head whirls!
Don't you look this way, beautiful girls!
Oh, take them away, they'll drive me crazy!
Oh! the saucy, pretty, winnning, witty, mischief-loving girls!
How my heart thumps and how my head whirls!
Don't you look this way, beautiful girls!
Oh, take them away, they'll drive me crazy!
Oh! the saucy, pretty, winnning, witty, mischief-loving girls!
As I sit beside them, charming creatures,
Little do they know how I tempted to
Throw my arms around their necks, and kiss them!
Though, of course, I know it wouldn't do.
Gliding through the gateway, there they go! there they go!
Don't they make you think of broken string of pearls?
Tripping up the stairway, here they come! here they come!
While the zephyrs frolic in their curls.
Every day so near, and yet so distant--
Everywhere so plenty, yet so little mine--
Doubtless they are angels wrongly labelled,
Angels made in other spheres to shine.
I know that loud music
Drives you crazy
My lady
But todays new generation of young
People listen to music very loud
Drooling mouth,
he dropped the juices so earthshaking,
so sweet, too wet and
made that tight, choking door open wide
for him to come momentous
and swallow, sip the juices out.
So sweet, so wet, the man turns delirious
and the woman is delighted.
go ridicule me,
that's your happiness
go laugh with it,
I know it's your true color
go now jump with it,
it's always your pleasure
for I will never cry,
ever since I know who you are
you are the lamb cloth
that's worn by that crazy wolf
I shall not sing a May song.
A May song should be gay.
I'll wait until November
And sing a song of gray.
I'll wait until November
That is the time for me.
I'll go out in the frosty dark
And sing most terribly.
And all the little people
Will stare at me and say,
"That is the Crazy Woman
Who would not sing in May."
Anonymous submission.
THE WORLD did say to me,
‘My bread thou shalt not eat,
I have no place for thee
In house nor field nor street.
‘I have on land nor sea
For thee nor home nor bread,
I scarce can give to thee
A grave when thou art dead.’
‘O crazy World,’ said I,
‘What is it thou canst give,
Which wanting, I must die,
Or having, I shall live?
‘When thou thy all hast spent,
And all thy harvests cease,
I still have nutriment
That groweth by decrease.
‘Thy streets will pass away,
Thy towers of steel be rust,
Thy heights to plains decay,
Thyself be wandering dust;
‘But I go ever on
From prime to endless prime,
I sit on Being’s throne,
A lord o’er space and time.
‘Then, crazy World,’ said I,
‘What is it thou canst give,
Which wanting, I must die,
Or having, I shall live?’
I ran up the door, closed the stairs
Said my pajamas, put on my prayers
Turned off my bed and jumped in the light
All because you kissed me goodnight
The Next morning, I woke and scrambled my shoes,
Polished my eggs, and toasted the news,
I couldn't tell my left from my right,
All because you kissed me goodnight
She loved
the flowers, the trees.
She kissed
the poppies, the lilies.
She played
with animals, like a child.
She adored
the humans, the birds.
She would sacrifice herself
for the life and love.
They called her crazy!
But why?
Tae pick up a stick an' chase a wee ba'
I jist canna see the sense in it ava'
Hittin' a ba' roond a park full o' holes
ye'd think t'wis a new wey tae kill a ' the moles
But they tell me it's golf - it's the "IN" game the noo
It swackens ye up withoot hae' in tae bou'
Bit if yon's meant tae swacken ye? - Hodgin' aboot
Aff o' ae fit on' till't ither, o' this there's nae doot
Yer banes are mair like tae seize up than tae swacken
Bit golfin' freends say "Fresh air is nae lackin'"
"Jist think o't yer lungs are gettin' a treat"
Bit wi' the win' there is here ye'd be blawn aff yer feet
An faur's the fresh air, faur's the sport faur's the tricks
Fin the rain's poorin oot o' the doup o' yer breeks
An' syne come the winter, it's nae eese ava'
Lookin' for holes amon' sax fit o' snaw
So takkin't a' roond, ye'd be better by far,
Tae stick tae the nineteenth - an' bide in the bar!
What a crazy world we live in,
and you can say that again.
For when we open up, ours mouths
sometimes the words we say,
just come out all wrong.
A Scottish friend of my wife
went to see the Doctor
as her pregnancy was over due.
The Doctor told her
he would give it another week
and then he would have to induce her.
When she went, home
and her husband asked how it went.
What she said next must
have come as a big surprise.
The Doctor said if I haven’t had it
in another week,
he was going to seduce me.
Another friend of Vera’s
went to the Doctor one day.
He asked, have you come on your cycle?
She quickly replied,
no my husband brought me in his car.
Vera must be learning from them.
When we were engaged,
my mother gave her
a large bunch of peonies.
She went to work the next day
and told all her friends about the flowers.
She then wondered why
they were curled up with laughter.
She told them about the flowers OK,
but her tongue couldn’t get a grip on peonies
and something else came out instead.
What a crazy world we live in
and I wouldn’t change it in anyway.
21 February 2008
They found me one day
wandering the wilderness,
hearing voices.
They found me one day
saying 'I hear voices
as clearly as you hear my voice
in this room
yet no one else hears
so that makes me crazy?
The voices denigrate me.
They deny me
and what I want is for them to go away.
Yet, when they speak
they mock me
saying
'they can't hear us because we are blocking them'
and they think you are crazy- this is what makes
us strong
and you weak.'
I hear these voices
and have to drown them out
so I don't hear.
So I don't hear
So I can sleep.
What I need is someone
who believes me:
they know if someone does
their power
is gone.
Does that make me crazy?
I don't think so..
Yes its Crazy Love and Yes I am Crazy
Crazy not because I lost my mind, it's because you  steal my mind
Crazy not because of psychological disorder, it's because you  effect  on my mood
Crazy not because I transmigrate(Majnoon)  personality, it's because you  make me 2nd (Majnoon)
Crazy not because I forget all the world except  u, it's because you  make me to forget
Crazy not because I see everything  green n blue, it's because you  make me see everything in different color
Crazy not because I forget how to smile r laugh, it's because you  took all my happiness
Crazy not because I lost the test r feeling, it's because you  control on my all  sensors
Crazy not because I forget how to live, it's because you  took all my life
Yes I am Crazy and Yes its Crazy love
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
Say...
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
All day long...
I knock my head against the wall.
Holding on...
To nothing that I own at all.
When night falls...
I need some time to just relax.
And not be nit picked behind my back.
With a nagging done by a maniac.
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
Say...
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
All day long...
I knock my head against the wall.
Holding on...
To nothing that I own at all.
When night falls...
I need some time to just relax.
And not be nit picked behind my back.
With a nagging done by a maniac.
Who greets me with verbal attacks.
And saps my energy like that.
Why can't I get my baggage packed.
And leave this scene before I scream.
All day long...
I knock my head against the wall.
Holding on...
To nothing that I own at all.
Why can't I get my baggage packed.
And leave this scene before I scream.
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
Say...
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
All day long...
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
Something's wrong...
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
You drive me crazy.
You drive me crazy.
And I must,
Like...
The craze.
Globalization.................................... ..............
Flowers are the smiles of plants and trees
Like the morning Sunshine creates brightness!
Sweet smiles of everyone is the bright side of one
That should not be hidden from the public's eye;
For, that brightness spreads through all everywhere.
Culture is to greet all with a smile despite difficulty
Thereby sorrowfulness of one can be transformed
And the ideas got out of conversation may change all;
Gloominess can be turned into brightness in life.
The purpose of festivals and celebrations do that well!
Love of kind words brings about change unprecedented
Whose influence begins with a smile at first to influence all
To smile too and whose infection increases health of life;
This is the culture humanity needs to be nurtured ever!
When a snowman winks his eyes of coal,
And from their windows children know...
Magic's in the air.
And they wish they are on Santa's list.
As children everywhere wish this.
The Christmas Trees that are trimmed with them,
Excites with the bright lights shining.
Dining festively on treats...
Will be remembered year to year.
This and every Christmas.
Joyous Eid al-Adha (The Festival of Sacrifice)
'A Celebration of Family, Community and Culture'
Merry Christmas...
'A Celebration of Family, Community and Culture'
Happy Chanukah...
'A Celebration of Family, Community and Culture'
Happy Kwanzaa...
'A Celebration of Family, Community and Culture'
And...The Best of New Years to Come,
To ALL in Celebration of United Humanity.
Best knowledge,
Thoughts, words and deeds
Constitute culture!
Any culture that teaches tolerance is great
Their back ground and heritage may clearly state
The excavations may lead to some clue
It is remnant of national treasure and venue
No one can simply boost of culture without any back ground
It has to be worked out on certain theory and must be found
All revelations that may come to the fore and in light
It may have to be preserved as asset and declared as monument or site
National achieve is full of ancient gadgets
They are provided with special budget
They are not made to suffer for the want of fund
It is preference for national pride for the land
When we speak highly of achieves?
We clearly see what that stand to achieve?
How national sentiments bring them together in the time of crisis?
There is no special thinking or thesis
We are full aware that national moral should stand all the time very high
National flag should be seen all over and fly
It is not mere piece of cloth but heart of millions
It must send clear waves to the heart of aliens
Many countries are known for their known loyalty
The people have also proved it number of times by remaining loyal
They had deep regard for the ruler of the land
They stood fast for the country with hand to hand
Nothing can compare when it comes to the question of devotion
It is the duty of all population to keep the wheels in motion
Nation may survive only when there is complete faith and awareness
It is necessary to maintain that level with solidarity and oneness
Nobody can afford to be less vigilant
There may still be danger from distant
It is not that only neighbors may prove hostile
Big powers may interfere and watch for while
Natural resources are always power of strength
Country can afford to go to any length
It may not have self sufficiency in all the fields
It may still have the courage to garner more yields
Country may stand fast against foreign pressure
It can carve out honorable path and assure
Nothing can be compromised at the cost of pride
It can’t be bartered or attempts be made to hide
We hold honor and pride if remain attached to motherland
We can work hard and make it as wonderland
It may be so that it has its existence not because of present
It may have  deep roots with people’s consent
Just economy, science and technology can't make society progress;
Knowledge of economy and technology can't make education complete
Sans humanities like literature, arts, history and religion anywhere!
Globalization of economy of nations has started financial competition;
Sophistication, comfort and luxury need more money to maintain;
Economic development at the cost of social development brings all ills!
Modern world by technological advancement has made civilized society;
Civilized world is a farce due to hunger, poverty, unemployment and ills;
Materialistic pursuit to become rich has made man into machine-beast-man!
Reforms are needed in education and governance to promote human culture;
Real civilization can be built only by fostering human culture from the start
For harmonious human development towards perfection desirable and healthy.
Today's industrialized world society is heading towards dystopia only sure
As was depicted by Aldous Huxley in his Brave New World to warn world
And by George Orwell in his novels like Animal Farm or 1984 in 1930s itself!
Technologically brainwashing the people as was envisaged by T S Eliot......
The world can be turned only as The Waste Land sans human sense and feeling
Driving the world to the brink of destruction with people having death wish ever!
Technological supremacy and terrorism threatening world peace as two forces
Opposing each other like the fight between civilization and fanaticism show
Very clearly underscoring the need for harmonious human perfect in society!
To change people with indifferent attitude, insensible nature and inhuman mind
Only the education that kindles individuals to aspire for cultural advancement
Can enrich human value leading towards human perfection that has power
To appreciate beauty and bring out truth in all to disseminate love and joy!
1 'Culture only provides power to understand and enjoy best things in life
Like books, pictures and music connecting work and play into one piece'
And is the best way of life for best thoughts, talks and deeds in the world!
2“Culture lies in the love for and study of and pursuit of human perfection; '
This is the harmonious expansion of all the powers that certainly make
The beauty and the worth of human nature possible to realize in life……!
2“Pursuit of human perfection is the pursuit of beauty and truth, and….
Hellenistic knowledge of Greek Classical beauty for achieving excellence
In human nature and Hebraic idea of Jewish action of fulfilling will of God! ”
2“Human spirit behind all the great works of literature, arts, science and religion
Aims at the harmonious human perfection leading towards the development of
All the sides of humanity, ” which is the job of human culture in the world ever!
3Philosophy is the love of, study of and pursuit of knowledge, wisdom and truth;
Knowledge is acquired by hearsay, experience, reasoning and intuition and also,
It is obtained by sense experience, mind, ideas out of impression and reason!
3Mental stimulus is transformed into perception to conception or ideas;
Perception is disordered stimulus and conception is ordered perception;
Science is ordered conception and wisdom is ordered life in the world!
Education that does not provide philosophic touch and human culture
But only civilization by science and technology will make the world a hell
That destroys art, literature and nature leading to the extinction of humans!
References:
I The Creation of One World by T A Ramesh
II 1. Does Culture Matter Today? by E M Foster
II 2. Culture and Anarchy by Matthew Arnold
II 3. History of World Philosophy by Will Duran
You are 20 miles away from wisdom and,
I am 60 miles awy from you with the facts of life;
And like the little doctrines and the rules which may delay a culture,
For hatred is also in our own rooms and on our own tables.
Real or artificial to you may sound as if to crown the muse,
But do walk around the town to see things for yourselves;
And of an education of words without the broom!
Let wisdom reign to the charging of mankind.
You are satisfied with yourself and i am with my muse also,
But a culture of value is what i need;
For you've been delayed by the doctrines of your culture in this life!
They were indeed simple people
the people of the east
A FINE CULTURE they did have
the people of the east
A FINE CULTURE
the east should have given the rest
when the west brought out the 'machine'
the east brought out the 'human'
Today's world  is not lacking in machine
Today's world is lacking in human
Today's east is sending 'productive men' all over
the east should have sent 'human men' all over
How did the east stray?
when did it loose it's way?
The east then found everything in simplicity
simplicity was it's strength and beauty
simplicity gave the east it's integrity
simplicity never ever gave the east an inferiority
Today the east mocks the west
the 'material' wealth of the west..has
put to rest...the
true spirit of the east
We blame it on simplicity
we say we were plundered due to our simplicity
a handed down book on simplicity
only became a liability..we say
What the west had gained
everybody did gain...the 'machine'
what the east had lost
everbody did loose...the 'human'
Today what are we in
an 'un human' man is managing a dangerous dumb 'machine'...and
THAT'S THE DANGER WE ARE IN...without
a fine culture
O you were once wild and beautiful
When summer's rays reclined in your hair
And your Being blazed in valleys and hills.
O you were a force so vital and rare
When brief flashes and fragments of Grace
Pierced the warm, feathered air
And the light of love lit up your face.
When crude flesh and fiery spirit were
Wedded in deepest communal bliss
And your youth's blood morphed into roses
In the sweet Garden of Promise
That once seemed so fruitful and endless.
O you were once wild and beautiful
But now you're a ragged recluse
Degraded by the needle chill;
Lost in a twilight world of absence;
Removed from a world you once infused
With colour and art and consciousness.
Now Innocence has been badly wounded
And Despair corrupts our Sacredness.
Yet I still cling tightly to the vast scope
Of your Vision; in the spectral seas
Of prayer; in the righteous rage of hope
In plagued streets placated by prophecy
Amidst the glitter, neon and concrete;
Amidst bleached ruins of modernity.
Humans don't like terrorism, violence and war, but only peace;
Peace needs to be promoted by the efforts of people of all creeds;
Creeds or religions are not for imposing on all but for peace only;
Only by betraying, banishing and extraditing outfits, it is possible!
Possibly people of terrorist's religion should betray them sure;
Sure that is the best way to send them out of place in the world;
World doesn't need such kind of beings for world unity and peace;
Peace lies in oneness of God for all religions by fraternity ever!
Ever more than preaching practice is most important to achieve all;
All are for love, joy, peace and development to live as one family;
Family is way of one world life possible only by unity in diversity;
Diversity of all things can't be ironed out by dictatorial command!
Command of military dictator has not achieved anything in history;
History reveals the truth that only by human culture all is possible!
Tuesday evening, January 15,2019 at 9: 10 p.m.
"Your silence will not protect you."
- Audre Lorde, Sister Outsider: Essays and Speeches
Ours is a culture of silent fear—
no one need look far to understand this.
No one discusses politics seriously in public
anymore except at election time, nor anything
else of national importance for that matter
from year to year.Americans know their
opinions don't count, that the government will
do what it wants to do when it wants to do it,
and they fear drawing attention to themselves,
to their opinions, being branded "troublemakers",
so they remain silent.The silent collective—
almost everyone wants to belong, to conform,
to fit in, to live in a white house in the suburbs,
have their two kids play in local little leagues.
The sweet smell of...The demographic runs
like this: the more people, the fewer individuals—
they get absorbed within the mass.
Protests die fast for lack of persons
who fear to care, and the national television
networks turn to hollywood entertainment news.
"Let's get serious, folks."The silent collective—
everything, everyone everywhere is disconnected;
we're out of touch with ourselves, the next person.
We don't want to know.Leave us alone with our...
here in the suburbs, with anyone else who moves in,
figurin' it's better here than where they came from.
Modern gadgets are eating away vitals of health;
Many have become victims of video games long!
One in England dies playing game for 12 hours
Though sitting in one place to do so before it!
Too much mental energy is needed to deal with it;
Otherwise one's energy will be sucked by gadget!
My eyes have become sensitive to TV tube rays;
So also Computer tube rays are v. bright to eyes!
These rays increase body heat heating eyes first;
Mental tiredness makes one unable to be creative!
I am a lover of Nature to enjoy its joy outside ever;
But to express our experience we approach PC!
Creative work indeed evolves better by this device;
But the gadget swallows up health to sickness ever!
It unites people,
Creates friendships
And develops love!
It makes publication of
Articles, short stories,
Novels and poems
Easier than before!
It makes impossible things possible
And makes talents never go waste in life!
Internet culture has made the big world
Into small village within the palm of man!
The development of this culture
Will make life better than before!
Pictures,
Structures,
Art and culture!
Going along with my mind,
Going along with my works,
Going my own way! !
Painting with the tip of the pen,
And writing my poetry with the muse of my mind.
Art and culture!
With the muse of my tradition;
Born in Africa! !
Identified in Ghana,
Growing up in Ghana,
Art and culture!
Going along with life,
Facing the odds along the line.
Pure with the truth,
Sure with my works,
To secure my love,
To cure my heart with righteous morals!
Insight and wisdom,
Facing the world with my works.
Strucure,
Art and culture!
Picture,
With endurance;
Growing up as an African child.
My heart,
My mind,
My love to the world so sweet! !
Enter in,
Taste my love,
My inner world;
Art and culture!
With my works to the world.
My identity,
My muse,
Coming from Africa!
Birth,
My birth;
Growing up,
To meet the muse of this world!
With the fragrance of life and the romance of nature.
Art and culture!
Joy to the world with the style of my works;
Creativity! ! ! !
With the aroma of my talent;
Art and culture!
Facing the odds of life along the line.
Art and culture,
Going my own way;
With my imagination,
With my style,
With my innovation,
With my works,
With my words,
With my mind,
Respecting my culture!
And, touching the world with my muse.
Art and culture!
The muse of life;
With the ways of nature,
Resting on mankind,
In every land.
My imgination!
My nation;
The place of my birth,
With my works to the world.
A mystic's vision is
enlarged by Asian wisdom
and it deepens this insight
into life's mystery
just as anyone who
gets a chance of deep
encounter with another
culture gets changed
in his vision
and thinking.
Hear the steak sizzle
And the beer fizzle,
A hit of beach cricket
Oh, what a wicket!
Under the burning sun
We’ll have a lot of watery fun
A cricket, AFL or Rugby game
Players celebrated in a hall of fame
All cultures together as one
Yet, individual until the game is won.
The days of old
Like the rush for gold
The love of everyone
After wars and battles
The drovers with cattle
The brumbies in the mountains high
With all our dreams to fly
Enticing sounds luring my mind down avenues of another
culture, seeing fascinating colors and festivities
happening all around.
Arousing curiosity even more than usual, going into the
midst of all that is seen and heard, while a proportionate
amount of time is being relayed in thought processes of
imagination.
Basic culture
What type of empowerment?
What shall we talk at resent?
That shall be merely lips service
With hollow words and promises
We frequently talk of mother
Own daughters and sisters
But forget about the fact outside
We openly lay a seize on them outside
What kind of criminal mentality we have?
How cruelly we behave?
Pick four or five year's girl and molest
As if that work is considered best
We are sick minded people
Adding more woe and troubles
We talk of granting more powers
But at the real time retrace the steps or shiver
No amount of legal immunity shall work
No good lecture or seminars with sweet words
The judiciary has to be strong enough to deter everyone
And come down heavily with strong message on
Crying inside
But smiling outside is
Best culture!
A singer of heart
Of love and joy
Setting words to music,
Giving music to words
By strumming,
Strumming and plucking
And plucking
The wires,
Wires of the guitar,
Bob,
Bob Dylan
A singer of heart,
A guitarist
Pop, jazz and blue
Remixing it all
In the tradition,
Symbolic of the great tradition
Of the American music
Folksy, remixes of the modern and the contemporary
And experimental
Bodily or soul-alluring,
Mundane nor transcendental,
Metaphysical or romantic.
The earth has been shaped and forged
For over 4.5 billion years, there is no hurry
Ice formed and shaped the valley,
Plates collided, they were in no hurry.
Mountains climbed, some would say 7
7 culture mountains, they'd be business,
Government, media, arts, and entertainment,
Education - the family and religion.
7 mountains sitting on the throne
On the throne of the earth,6 chess pieces
6 physical 3D realms… 1 spiritual
Now, this is a battlefield for change agents.
This calling and a catalyst for change!
They want you to infiltrate the mountains.
To be their salt and light a mustard seed
For change and build a new earth.
In 4.5 billion years man might just be a fish.
Good for nothing on some distant frozen planet
But on a hook still where there's no hurry
Swallowing orbs golden of starlight.
Ye are the salt of the earth:
But if the salt has lost its savour,
Wherewith shall it be salted?
"Can strategies cause a tipping point in culture? "
Their argument is it has before.
~ Cell ~ Soul ~ Culture ~ [1+26 words poetry]
Ms. Nivedita
UK.
21 November 2012
Cell ~ Culture
Is mundane splendor.
Soul ~ Culture
Is self unfolder.
Discover Soul
In unique unison
With ev'ry being
Identify
E'er new Whole
Thro' wizardry of
Omnipresent oxyopia!
==
Glossary: Humbly given for what I tried to express: ~
[1] Oxyopia: Acute vision
~~~~~
Copyright reserved by author
Best way of living is called culture varying from place to place;
Based on experience knowledge of better living helps a way
To be followed for living a satisfied and lasting life of fun here!
Modern life based on civilisation allows much room for freedom;
But lack of culture only classifies them under gypsy category!
Modern people rely on money believing it as a mark of civilisation
To live independently without giving importance to human beings!
But by the very nature of birth man is incomplete without company
And that makes man live in family rather than alone as an animal
That roams about in search of food and mate to satisfy its needs!
However many go by money to live mechanical life without risks
That helps one as long as health and strength are in good state;
But once they become weak by age and can’t manage alone
They long for love, family and children by their side till the end!
Tip-top! Club culture!
Ball and pub culture, hip-hop!
All fools culture, boo-boo!
Take a risk
Assess the right and the wrong of it
The pleasure over happiness
The rules over responsibility
What risk to the public
If they knew
They could be poor
And happy too
Alienation what's it all mean?
Okay to show off your latest machine
Don’t mention your need
For the love that could feed you
Such sentiment fool is obscene
It’s okay to talk of the needs
which it gives you
To buy
Keep up with the trend
Keep your end up
In the virtual eyes of
A world which doesn’t exist
For when have you ever
Been invited
To say what you feel
By an 'all powerful'
Ephemeral A- list?
Seen through watery eyes the image distorted
Urban paradise
Staking out a place in heaven
Argue over seats
Tut at the rudeness
Annoying -like a one-sided mobile phone chat
An animated face gripping earnestly
To handset
Coffee long gone in home from home position
Tut inward and out as little kid shouts
And the computer with its upward crescendo
Does musical pap
Alone you may think
But never so alone as when trapped with others
Into chain of thought and command
You alone as a body
But together linked up in your soul with others of Your kind
And others all prey
To supply and demand
'Dear animals of prey
To protect the delicacy of our sanity
We ask you not to hit and run with our souls '
As you look for your fun
It’s the home from home
where you bring your own mates
Out of bounds to make new friends
If  no one communicates
The thin girl enjoyed eating what she yacked up
Before meeting
The new love
She’s greeting
With air kisses
He misses
the qualities she’s barely revealing
Unlike the umbilical he finds so appealing
Pack your own sandwich.
Make your own love
Culture based on listless lackeys tries
exploiting basic instincts, fails to thrive.
Conniving skyvers harm harmonious hive,
antagonistic feast, with furtive eyes
divided between jealousy, surprise.
Mediocrity sets goals but can't survive,
stagnating or backtracking, must contrive
expedience, manipulation, lies,
losing face, disgrace must realize
that fragile struggles, space to stay alive,
depends much less on effort or on drive
than selflessness that spurns sly compromise.
Priorities protecting selfish rights
sacrifice ethics, signal sleepless nights.
Fragility in public sphere is found
duplicated in the population;
lopsided give and take's mistaken, bound
to fail time's test upon examination.
Temptation stretches tentacles across
vital societal fabric, leaves one wan,
alone to draw protective veil while boss
whips wealth, strips health from poor, whose tale's soon done.
Persuasion's kin is rank manipulation
of mind or vote.  Too few intact remain.
Who'd rock the boat's confined in isolation,
cost high, salvation lost, what salves their pain?
Vulnerable today, tomorrow seems
to rend men mediocre from spent dreams.
I ask,
What culture do we have?
Cool is not a culture
We have become accustom to non-sense
Violence, Hopelessness, Horrors
And it all breeds disillusionment
Fantasies swell
You not a man,
You not a part of the human continuum
You something else, something less,
Less in-tune with reality
The people talk about real everyday
What’s real, what’s more real?
Who’s the realest?
Because the people aren’t real
Their values aren’t real
Their priorities aren’t real
Their real culture is
Deception, Destruction
Self-destruction and it’s all self-inflicted
We’re trained to hate ourselves
And taught to love our enemies
In fear is how we receive each other
Danger is how we perceive the world
Where everything is uncertainty
Unstable, No Security, No Protection
Other than what destroys first ourselves
And then our communities
And no one has immunity
No foundation
Under educated, Misinformed
Ignorance by design
Dying without a cause
Living with no purpose
Wandering souls
Curious conditions
Where every dream is fleeting
The young don’t acknowledge the old
The old don’t acknowledge the young
The young are the old and no one knows it
The young show no respect
The old don’t pass down knowledge
They allow generation after generation
After generation to fail
Until failure is in our genetic code
And failure is the code we live by
Our culture isn’t success
It’s not love, it’s not understanding
It’s not progress
It’s regression, regrets,
The false hope of promise
And the pain of un-fulfillment
It’s power,
The exploitations of the weak
Preying on the weaker
It’s paper
Both the chase and the waste
It’s plastic
A mold, a façade we all fake
It’s majority rule
With only the minority thinking
Minds aligned with the elite
Who want our rapid decline
Clearly visible to those awake
But our culture keeps us unconscious
And at too many wakes
Kept from the desire for justice
Our culture dismisses
It can’t  swallow the truth
In a belly of lies
Because our culture is miserable
It’s cynical, it’s loyalty to death
Mentally castrating
Bastard making
Family devastating
With no accountability
No plan, no purpose on the planet
Our culture, this cult
Comes from nothing
It is nothing
Those who follow are nothing,
Yet we follow it blindly,
We follow it in full
Down a fool’s path
Towards a path of oblivion
Where the wrath of a million,
Sons and Daughters
Fathers and Mothers
Explode to reach something colder
But cool is not a culture
So what culture do we have?
At this beautiful morning now,
We are cultivating culture of light,
This light is gift of God is adorable,
Beauty has defined justice of joy.
Cultivating culture we learn art,
From past history to present day,
At each moment at present in fortune,
Sun sprinkles rays of mercy of God.
Culture of light is light of wisdom,
Practicing awakening of self is nice,
Justice of love is revived with trust,
Culture of light is eternal and infinite.
We live in this garden of God in truth,
We obey his command everyday in heart,
Perceiving light we perceive his mercy,
Light sings his glory guiding us ever.
Five nights agone I lay at rest
On my suburban couch.
My trousers on the bedpost hung,
Red gold within their pouch.
The twin-gods Law and Order seemed
To me all powerful as I dreamed.
My life was staid, my rates were paid,
And peace was in my mind.
Nor recked I of unruly men
To evil deeds inclined
Strange, primal atavistic men
Who shock the peaceful citizen.
But all the same by stealth he came,
A man of vile intent.
What cared he that my life was pure,
Or that I paid my rent?
He willed to violate my shrine
For household treasures that were mine.
He planned to thieve my household goods,
Heirlooms of divers kinds.
(I cannot understand such men,
Nor fathom their dark minds.
Why cannot they abjure all vice,
And be respectable and nice?)
With purpose vile and with a file
My window he attacked.
A stealthy scratch upon the catch
Awoke me to the fact.
Softly, with sudden fear amazed,
A corner of the blind I raised.
I saw his face!...Oh, what a man
His manhood should degrade,
And seek to rob (I checked a so
Except in honest trade!
A predatory face I saw
That showed no reverence for Law.
With whirring head I slid from bed,
Crept from my peaceful couch;
Forsook my trousers hanging there,
Red gold within their pouch.
Out through my chamber door I fled
And up the hallway softly sped.
Into the murky night I stole
To see a certain cop,
Whose forthright feet patrol the beat
A stone's throw from my shop.
In my pyjama suit went I....
Across the moon dark clouds swept by.
I saw him draped upon a post,
Like someone in a swoon.
His buttons gleamed what time the clouds
Released the troubled moon.
He gazed upon the changing sky,
A strange light in his dreamy eye.
'Now, haste thee cop!' I called aloud,
And seized him by the arm.
'There is a wretch without my house
Who bodes my treasure harm' ....
Toward the sky he waved a hand
And answered, 'Ain't that background grand?'
'Nay, gentle John,' said I, 'attend
A thief my goods and gold
Seeks to purloin.  Go, seize the man
Before the trail is cold!'
'Those spires against the sky,' said he,
'Surcharged with beauty are to me.'
'I give the man in charge!' I cried,
'He is on evil bent!
He seeks of all its treasured art
To strip my tenement!'
He answered, as one in a dream,
'Ain't that a bonzer colour-scheme?
'Them tortured clouds agen the moon,'
The foolish cop pursued,
'Remind me of some Whistler thing;
But I prefer the nood.'
Said I, 'Arrest this man of vice!'
Said he, 'The nood is very nice.'
'My pants,' cried I, 'unguarded lie
Beside my peaceful couch
My second-best pair, with the stripes,
Red gold within their pouch!
Thieves!  Murder!  Burglars!  FIRE!' cried I.
Sighed he, 'Oh, spires against the sky!'
Then, in my pink pyjamas clad,
I danced before his eyes.
In anger impotent I sought
His car with savage cries.
He pushed me from him with a moan.
'Go 'way!' he said.  'You're out of tone.'
'Why do I pay my rates?' I yelled -
'What are policemen for?
Come, I demand, good cop, demand
Protection from the law!'
'You're out of drorin', too,' said he.
'Still, s'pose I better go an' see.'
I guided him a-down the street;
And now he stayed to view
The changing sky, and now he paused
Before some aspect new.
And thus, at length, we gained my gate.
'Too late!' I cried.  'Alas, too late!'
Too late to save my household gods,
My treasures rich and rare.
My ransacked cupboards yawned agape,
My sideboard, too, was bare.
And there, beside my tumbled couch,
My trousers lay with rifled pouch.
'Now, haste thee, cop!' I called again,
'Let not thy footsteps lag!
The thief can not be far away.
Haste to regain the swag!' ...
His arms I saw him outward fling.
He moaned, 'Where did you get that thing?'
With startled state I looked to where
His anguished gaze was bent,
And, hanging by my wardrobe, was
A Christmas Supplement
A thing I'd got for little price
And framed because I thought it nice.
It was a Coloured Supplement
(The frame, I thought, was neat).
It showed a dog, a little maid
Whose face was very sweet
A kitten, and some odds and ends.
The title, rather apt, was 'Friends.'
'Accursed Philistine!' I heard
The strange policeman hiss
Between his teeth.  'O wretched man,
Was I hired here for this?
O Goth!  Suburbanite!  Repent!
Tear down that Christmas Supplement!'
And, as athwart my burgled pane
The tortured storm-wrack raced,
He bowed his head upon his hands,
And wept and wept and wept....
So, on the whole, it seems to me,
Art and policemen don't agree.
Lease,
Release!
Please,
With your works;
Culture and Creative Arts!
In your land;
With your style,
With your mind,
Attached with words of peace and love.
Creativity is the key!
With imaginations;
Into another realm with your inner self,
Bringing out surprises! !
Touching the hearts of the people around you.
Living,
The culture and the style of the people over here are very different;
And, the society is not much open to all,
With full of doculments needed here and there to proceed on a matter.
Living,
Here on earth with a different society around me;
All in the name of culture and custom,
However, the foreigners among them are really suffering!
All in the name of intergration.
Living,
In the land of papers;
With headaches and depression,
Of talents and time being wasted due to the number of years taken to understand a language.
Walking across the land;
Dancing and drumming,
And, speaking with the muse of their language.
The festival,
The people of the village;
Speaking their own language as,
They danced along with the muse of the drummers.
Culture and the people,
With the high tone of their voices! !
In joy with the muse of the festival.
We’re all lashed
to Cultural Helms
besodden
ingrained eyes
narrowed to squinty plane
seeing;
not seeing
only mine;
and not mine
blind.
Culture is the Gardener's Death
who’s kind to only one flower;
other's bloom in the garden darkened
by blindness over-powered.
Strain some may
against the mast
yet they most times
cultivate only their own gardens;
time and the past
cause other flowers
to bloom and wither
before our very countenance.
Tempted we may be
by soul's desire
to look beyond the garden walls:
But few cannot,
but lift the spade
and plow the same furrows,
which etch our brow
contain our lives
until our death
we having known
only one garden flower:
grown beautifully
in straight
and narrow furrows.
A few sometimes
smell other blooms
thereby open up
genius
which is
simply
being willing
to sip and know
Not Like We-Ness.
Culture of India varies from states to states,
the culture  may be dance, music, religion.
The culture originate from past people,
but modern people changing its style.
People are ignoring their culture,
with getting involved in different activities.
They may be great in their job but not in their respect.
This creates bad impact on future,
with irrespective and indiscipline.
Please..have respect to our cultures,
have respect to  mother India.
respect your parents and elders
as they are greater and experienced then us.
Be disciplined man of this world and the life of cave
TO ALL READERS
God has given us chance to prove ourself good not bad.
Please be proud of your country.
India has its culture
Displayed in customs & traditions
India is known for it's unique
Festivals & celebrations
India has its specialized Arts
From Taj Mahal at Agra
And India Gate at India's Heart
The Beauty of Indian Culture
Whether Folk or Tribal Art
Even the wall paintings & Sculpture
Has its own learning Embarked
An Expression of culture
In its dignified dance
And its melodious music
You should listen; if you get a chance
The Clothing in India
Differs with its geographical base
Every ornament with its traditional wear
Has its own amazing grace
India has its unity
Whenever there's a need
Sharing at times of crises
It's a value sown indeed
they
told me that walking to the shop was best
done using a pair of old trainers.
that way I’d be able to walk with
a nice mold surrounding my feet.
I wouldn’t stumble and it wouldn’t hurt
to try and break them in.
much in the same way,
they
told me that
art is best with its first sketch, it’s pristine
raw drawing. that way the intentions
are clear and the emotions
are wild.
they
told me that to perfect a poem, you must first
start with a word you dislike, then build up, build up
build up, create the building, sculpt the sculpture.
they
told me that I’m a madman living in a madman’s
world. maybe they’re right, but my feet didn’t hurt when
I walked to the shop. my art has been perfected and
I passed. this poem wasn’t perfected – and opinion
will divide it like a pizza.
but as for being a madman –
be careful what they tell you or you might
end up sane like me. unless you are,
in fact,
they
,
in which case – carry on spurting out
your madman perfectionist lies –
the madman world might listen.
Sandwiched between feelings and emotions are rhythms
of our lives, regulating what we do and how we react
to situations.
Living in the disassociation of human beings towards
their inner universes, knowing that they don't alter
their attitudes or opinions towards anything.
Welcoming and participating in a culture of new be-
ginnings and endings, totally appeals to intellect
and my mind.
Watching how things sway us one way or another, being
enthralled with what people do in different situations
and environments.
What is culture?
Culture is refinement and polish,
Is inherited rather than attained
Though can be
If one tries to perfect.
Culture is society, heritage and tradition,
The family you are from,
The heritage you have got,
Tradition carried forward.
Sometimes culture destroys in absence
Of nurturing,
But instead of the things can be envisaged
In the ruins and rubble.
If we put closure to culture
Then in isolated torture
We suffer as human creatures
So shall we remain cultured?
And mature slowly in grace
Or attempt losing face
At a certain time or a place!
Even the scriptures and sculptures
Historical or man-made
That we rely upon with to trade
Are not exempt from culture
So what is it about culture?
That makes a pleasant picture
This cultivated feature
Inspiring us to venture into adventures
Nod our heads in distasteful gestures
At certain unpleasant natures
For the values a society captures
With or without structure
Right now or in the future
If I may have to lecture
Is acknowledged as culture!
★ Culture
☆ by Ralph Waldo Emerson
Can rules or tutors educate
The semigod whom we await?
He must be musical,
Tremulous, impressional,
Alive to gentle influence
Of landscape and of sky,
And tender to the spirit-touch
Of man's or maiden's eye:
But, to his native centre fast,
Shall into Future fuse the Past,
And the world's flowing fates in his own mould recast.
▲ Chinese Translation
★ 文化
☆ [美] 拉尔夫•瓦尔多•爱默生 (1803 - 1882)   诗
☆ [中] 罗志海  译
规则或导师教育
我们等待的神人合一？
他一定是音乐的
颤抖，印象
活得文雅去影响
天空景色
温柔地触摸
男人或处女眼睛里的魂魄< br>同时，快速去他的市区中心点
进入未来与过去交界的熔点
改写他自己陶冶的尘世间的厄 运流年
北京时间2015年2月20日翻译
Beijing time on February 20,2015, Translation
what inflicts itself
on groups or people when in-
novation ceases
Education is good, learning is great
One day everyone will have
A University degree but the academia
Will not be so happy
Street cleaners with letters after their name
Cooks with literary degrees,
And the status University gives will mean
Little, everyone is intellectually equal
Something must be done to stop this rot,
Perhaps wood carving will do,
And leave the education to the masses.
Can rules or tutors educate
The semigod whom we await?
He must be musical,
Tremulous, impressional,
Alive to gentle influence
Of landscape and of sky,
And tender to the spirit-touch
Of man's or maiden's eye:
But, to his native centre fast,
Shall into Future fuse the Past,
And the world's flowing fates in his own mould recast.
I know its summer,
But all i can think is fall.
In the yard there is no lumber,
And on the trees the leaves are there in all.
All i see are fallen leaves:
Of yellow, orange, and red.
Yet the wind never heaves
And the birds still aren't fed
School isn't in yet
But it's just round the corner,
So I have a lot to fret
At the school where I'll be a foreigner.
I feel the rush,
And all the kids in the hall,
A pretty girl with a brush
And a nerd about to fall.
Sitting all alone,
Surrounded by strangers
I'm not accident prone,
Yet all around dangers
Not a familiar face in sight,
Or an inside joke to tell,
I look everywhere and see fright
All people have are lies to sell.
They feed off fear.
And inhale the pain.
They give you an evil lear.
Say your resilience is in vain.
No sympathaty at all,
Or even mercy,
Although I stand tall
But they're all bloodthirsty.
They look at me and whisper,
Ugly things they say.
Hatred inside her
I try to say I'm okay.
Power in numbers,
Yet im all alone.
While the great beast slumbers,
I look at my phone.
Nothing.
Its the way it is.
Coping.
But I still fizz.
After an absence of...
four years intensely immersed;
in a foreign country
culture cuisine employment.
Sometimes the greatest
culture shock;
is coming back
to your home country.
Sometimes then
you do not belong;
in either country
ever ever again.
This is definitely true
when you never;
belonged in your home
country to begin with.
Bicultural people
can however;
be an insightful gift
to both cultures.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Tibetan monasteries falling in ruin, weathered,
beaten down by the Chinese, to provoke a life
long tomb.
Destroying culture, trying to bury and forget,
allowing for the insane jealousy.
What will be the end of it all, when one day,
nothing is left standing.
English culture is English,
Typically British, American,
European and Christian,
Let it be British,
Let it be American,
Let the spirit not die,
Leaving no room,
Making no scope for multi-culti
As it cannot be multi-cultural,
Asiatic and aboriginal,
Exotic and diverse,
Ismic and conflicting.
England is England,
America America,
Let them be
With their cultures,
O Asians, destroy it not!
Krishna dancers, singing to a steady, low beat with a lively
spirit, showing the beauty that is of India.
A tangent feeling of incessant beating of hearts, taking care
to become a part of nature as one in diversity.
Beautiful language being sung instrumentally with a fortitude
of inner energy and a placid sense of desire.
All culminating in the essence of a culture that I have never
really known about.
look
like click
face book culcture
Tuscan folk verses were such emotional
Inspired and made the folks anyway quite active
To lead honest, happy life as usual
Helping one another is danger and need;
In the farm land the peasants sang while working
Gossiped ancient tales at leisure spending
Even at present recall the generations
Them through Rispetto and various occasions.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza | 3 February,2018
A global culture is closing up on us,
But with lustful minds to kill mankind;
Yet still, they take up the Bible to calm us down.
When it is not a coup, it is war! !
And like what is now going on in Libya;
But with lustful minds to kill mankind!
Of a global culture,
But little things do mean a lot when you know the value;
And check out the life styles around you today,
For it si a mixture of righteous and evil!
The oil reserves are being bombed today in Libya,
And the dark mushroom clouds bring sadness on our faces;
But how many dead bodies are already recorded?
Of human beings and human identities,
But the global culture is what we know;
With global villages in the state ot our minds,
But quote it from the Torah and compare it with the modernizations around you.
Oh mankind! ! What have we done to ourselves on this earth?
Where is the missing link and, why the hatred? ! !
But the positive ones are never heard in times like this;
With the magnitudes of the negative one crowning the day!
But let us sit down and talk about it.
Help yourself to the sun
There’s a bite taken out of it already
The only thing that you’ll become
Serenades to my porch while burning a cross in my backyard
Mother Nature is a cruel cruel soul
Even when your best friend is a tree
The less you hear, well, the better off you are
‘Cause from nine-to-five you’re just part of the machine
And this is the lifetime
You woke up in it just yesterday
And you just want to walk along
Side of a boxed-up mannequin in a chain store
Blending colors in conformity
Does nothing but make a mess for someone else to clean
But if you believe in the other side
You will make it past the dirty grip of society
So do your own thing, and be just who you are
And don’t let anyone tell you that it’s wrong
‘Cause when you’re doing the right thing and doing it your own way
You just might flourish in this land that you can see
Culture’s growth in leaps and bounds,
Must bring it out of its own cage or shell,
To adapt itself to environs new,
Taking the warning of self-destruction,
And relinquish its innate demerits
And primitive principles that elude
Its metamorphosis, remaining fresh
Like a jewel upon the keeper’s hand.
Gun culture
Life is moving very fast
We don't know when will it last
but it is going to mushroom
we will watch growing crime in our room
yes drug trafficking is on
daily new methods are thrust on
the kids are inducted
for trade to be facilitated
they get killed or kill
this is not their will
but new style is added
the crime has flourished
soon you will witness
and find gloom on face
to find our dear one is shot dead
the culprits have then fled
you have new culture
to the future scene
the kids will be seen
yielding and showing gun
Interest born of curiosity kindles love of all subjects
To have deep knowledge to know whole and ultimate truth;
That's human culture helping harmonious self development!
Human culture promotes love of arts, science, literature,
history, poetry and philosophy to have complete education
Leading to spiritual fulfilment in Nature to enjoy bliss!
Knowledge of Self, world, Nature and Universe so gained
By love leads to the clear understanding of ultimate one
Revealing the beginning and end in one all pervading God!
Love and knowledge give perfection and freedom to one to
Enjoy happiness by communion of mind with Nature to feel
Heavenly bliss and peace with satisfaction in human life!
Mind and heart in union by love makes it joyful to indulge
In spiritual pursuit of ultimate reality of Universal Spirit!
Let us come together,
Let us work together,
Let us love each other.
We are one and one,
We should rise and shine
At a time here.
This is our earth, my dear,
We all the creatures are
Living here with light
With air and water,
From up above the sky
We should wait for nectar.
Mutual growth should be
our aim and we should go
To achieve this giving
Support to each other.
As human beings we should
Take more responsibilities
To deliver all good to all.
The earth is our mother,
We are all one family members,
Let us come together,
Let us keep connection to each other,
Let us contribute for better future,
Let us go upward with humanity and culture.
Humanity and culture
Yes, father wants someone to take care
Look after
And ask or offer glass of water
That only can done be by daughter
This is an attachment
That is with parents
They want lovely daughter
With some smile on her face
Daughter is most beautiful
In the eyes of painful parents
When they have no one to confide
Daughter rushes to take care of dad
Daughter is first choice
As she keeps promise
Mother too wants daughter
To be always by the side of her
So daughter must follow
And grow
With father's guidance
And take chance
Be poetess
With lovely face
And access
To humanity and culture
Holiday mood in West and festival mood in East
Begin with the last phase of August till September!
Then Winter mood of festivals continue on starting
With Ganesh Chadhurthi, Krishna Jayanthi and on
Continuing with Navrathri, Diwali, Christmas & N Year!
So all the years go on and on in the world life cycle ever
Like the seasons changing from Spring to Summer and
Then to Autumn to Winter to say Good bye to the year!
But fun mood in all seasons connected with festivals and
Holidays to enjoy life in various ways we live life long....!
What a fun enjoying holidays with family and friends
Going to places in the South sea beaches and North
To have relaxation in hill station resorts in Summer!
In Winter palying Cards, Carrom, Chess and Billiards
We manage ourselves against all kinds of weathers...!
Best way of life we have discovered is human culture
We all like to live in the names of national and festival
Holidays we cherish most in heart to have joy and all
Kinds of fulfilment possible to live a complete life we love
Wishing best wishes sending greeting cards and all ever!
We cannot change this even the climate changes often!
Whether the weather is good or bad we have fun in all!
Life to be cheerful we drink to the health of all forever
Gathering friends we love and loving souls to enjoy life!
This is human culture to make even worst as best so...!
In a certain culture,
People do eat and drink blood;
In a certain culture,
People wake up early to eat before they brush their teeth;
In a certain culture,
People eat animals already found dead;
In a certain culture,
People wake up early to eat before they bath;
In a certain culture,
People eat snakes and dogs;
In a certain culture,
People wake up to brush their teeth before eating;
In a certain culture,
People eat monkeys and crocodiles;
In a certain culture,
People wake up in the morning to bath before they eat;
In a certain culture,
To be naked at the beachside is okay;
In a certain culture,
It is a taboo to be naked at the beachside;
And this is all about life on this earth!
Because what is sweeter on your lips is bitter on mine;
And it is very strange to experience all these facts around the world.
Indian culture is the best like gold.
India  hath  need of  cultured men.
A gun or bomb may convert into a pen.
Educated  men  have  a  royal  hold.
All women must be literate and bold.
And all dress as  per  their  religions.
Way of living depends upon their regions.
Old is  gold  as  we have  been  told.
We all live here with our fore - fathers!
But  we  think  as  lucky  and  blessed.
AS the citizen of India we are addressed.
By humanity sake we Indian help to others.
So as  all  the  states  are  our  brothers.
In the golden words Indian culture is expressed.
Indian thought and culture and tradition,
Try I to charter their course
From the very beginning to down the ages
Going in my own way
Of dwelling upon the topic
And deliberating upon.
What it is Indian culture, the ingredients of it,
How is it one from Mount Kailash and Mansarovar
To the fringe of Tamil Nadu,
What to include, what to exclude,
Why not to be incorporating of all,
Indian and non-Indian, Aryan and non-Aryan?
Indian thought and culture is like the Ganges
Flowing down to
From the place of origin which lies it into the Himalayas
To the Gangasagar Islands,
An amalgamation of different cultures,
Creeds and sects
Aligning in the end.
We must all stay aware…..,
Of the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder….,
It’s been increasing for years….,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Can’t dare turn our backs….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
It’ll sneak up and kill us…,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
It’s hard to believe and conceive….
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
That’s why so many are blind….,
To the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder …! ! !
We’ve seen the bloody attacks…..,
Of the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
So we must face the facts….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Yes they’re after us all…,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
Their radical religion condones it….,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Can we control it or stop it….,
So it won’t go any further….? ? ?
That’s the billion-dollar question….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder …! ! !
To lay blame on another,
Is part of the culture.
Very few will admit that sat,
They resolved their own problems...
With a doing not to have them come back.
Who has not told a lie,
As if for them a truth existed.
And who has not involved someone else,
They knew had been innocent.
Denials are seldom put on trial.
To be judged by a jury interpreting laws.
To then convict someone with a sentence given.
And too many prevail to sit confined in prisons or jails,
Later to be released because of a flaw in a 'system' fails.
It is the culture that feeds delusions that exist.
It is the culture that permits mental illness that exists.
It is the culture many define as not being the way it is.
But its 'is' a culture of self righteous conformists,
And their addiction to conflicts and hypocritical beliefs.
It is the culture that feeds, permits and defines!
All the time.
And it is the culture that defies with excuses made,
To rely on alibis to defend, whether wrong or right...
The actions of its people inside and under church steeples.
Or on the streets where hidden crimes reside to protect,
The ones who lie and try to defect with kept imperfections.
As if not to reflect to affect effectively.
It is in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
Everyday it's there and in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
And to reject...
The telling of truth.
It's...
In the culture.
A feeding to accept,
Deception.
Oh,
And...
Everyone expects to be deceived.
And...
Everyone expects they should believe in lies.
And despise...
Believers and the tellers of truth.
It is in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
Everyday it's there and in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
And to reject...
The telling of truth.
Oh yes it's there and everywhere,
In the culture.
A feeding to accept,
Deception.
Everywhere and there to believe,
A feeding of deception to receive.
Everyday it's there and in the culture.
Fed to accept,
Deception.
And to reject and disrespect...
The telling of truth.
Booted or diluted is the truth.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
Oh...
It's in the culture.
And...
The telling of the truth,
Few people do.
summer kiwi wine festival season
chasing fans on Classic Hits Winery Tour
singers centre stage in wine paradise
singers also sing warm ups at All Black games
All Blacks pose as men drinking beer not wine
poets drink wine but poets are missing
apparently no All Blacks write poetry?
apparently no wine makers read poetry?
kiwi culture has not discovered poetry?
When I have returned to dust,
recall me, but not the genuine me;
no, leave that shrinking, purple-
prosing violet be. Instead visit
the giddy governess of Cagliari,
permit her pie-eyes to expound
upon our bacchic escapades,
my shelfworn banalities
and grey-whiskered anecdotes.
She'll recount in platitudes with her
characteristic twists on them.
Arouse my drinking buddies
to spew about my pseudo-impressions.
Dig up the groundskeeper
and he'll likely kick up the dust
of how we conversed on a daily basis.
Let everyone know how I pretended
to enjoy the company of that charlatan
novelist who resided down the street.
But most importantly, tell them
about the overzealous scarecrow
attendants during Long Beach
retreats with accents as flat as tortillas,
tailored in high-strung fashions, relating
all those Sunday afternoons that I
compared notes with the likes
of Leonard Cohen, John Updike,
S. J. Perelman, and Groucho Marx
at the famous Chelsea Hotel.
Speak about my wild, unkempt
hair, garish garb and ecclectic
taste in music and art; however,
never mention in Montréal nor
in Athens that you annoyed me
on more than one occasion
with your sycophantic behaviour,
so I repeatedly kicked your shin..
When I have indeed departed,
far beyond all this earthly misery,
allow just about anything to be
said, everything  except the truth.
No one ever got to know the real me.
I was the jester of no one.
Delinquency gave me daring
on the wrong side of forty-five,
and cowardice in my greener days.
rev.02/07/08
I am the cradle of all civilizations
In my veins I run
The seed of human history
In my chest I carry the grandeur of Taj-Mahal
the wonder of hanging garden of Babylon
Ten thousand years of old blood
Sweetened with human struggle
I pump in my heart
How a slap or two from a brute power or a beast
Could ensure a defeat of a man whose
Roots of achievements go down
To the nether land below
And up into the sky!
Men are men
And beasts are beasts
Without reason and logic they attack
And in front of their brute power
A man from the race of culture and art
Always get a defeat physically
But artistically, he never
And does not
Migrated Culture
In me there is something like blood
I brought in my heart after the flood
Next visit I searched, was not found
Sample of what I know deepen fond
Was removed and buried under mud
In me but it remains forever, is alive
The changes in old way, not in mind
Old is fresh till I live, in bones, heart.
Modern Indian English poetry represents it not
India,
Indian thought, culture and philosophy,
Myth and mysticism,
Metaphysics, spirituality and metaphysics,
Faith, belief and doubt.
Modern Indian English poetry represents it not
India,
The India of the countryside,
The villages, thorps and hamlets of it,
Meadows, pastures, deserts and hilly terrains,
The exotic flora and fauna of it,
The hills, vales and dales.
But the modern men the hollow men doing tidbits,
Trifle and trivial things,
The modern hollow men,
The modern city men of the city culture and living,
The modern urban men of the cityscape
For whom life is a visit to the bazaar
And men as market-goers, shoppers.
Pizzas, plazas, parks, pubs, picnics, parties,
Malls, cafes, coffee houses, restaurants,
Multi-complexes, gyms, over bridges, jams, flyovers,
Tours and travels,
Style, fashion and designing,
Tension and stress management,
The talks of the modern poets as the modern men,
The modern city men living in towns and cities,
Mega cities and metropolitan towns.
Greeds for power have built some ancient towers
Located at different territories called main centers,
Greeds for interests have strengthened those towers
Allocating the each room to their each owner
Where with family power holders live without fear
And practise the systems of power capturing culture,
The citizens debate on power holders and power
Some praise, some criticize and lament the others.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |  08/21/2017
More POP is the culture.
Given more significance to it meant.
And getting more POP is a culture,
Feasting on decadence.
And 'blinging' things that make no sense.
Getting more POP is a culture,
And given more significance.
But,
Losing ground is sanity,
Invented to dispense.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
Fed to deadened heads.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
And given more significance.
But,
Losing ground is sanity,
Invented to dispense.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
Worship it or leave.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
In heads to believe.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
Fed to deadened heads.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
And given more significance.
But,
Losing ground is sanity,
Invented to dispense.
More POP is the culture.
And given a significance meant.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
And 'blinging' things that make no sense.
More more more POP is the culture.
And given a significance meant.
Oh yes more POP is the culture.
And 'blinging' things that make no sense.
More POP as a culture.
I want it as a need.
More more more POP as a culture.
I need it give it please.
Give me more POP as a culture.
I want it as a need.
More more more POP as a culture.
I need it give it please.
Inherent of heredity as heritage
like ants gathering in heap
And cultural feeling dressed us
All with spirit of ubuntu
Its inheritance is our strength
Our whereabouts and our which is which
Our breakthrough and our future
Our undivided tension
and our nation in colors
Custodians of clear custom
Traditionalists of tradition
Even Life is traditional
I see a happy compatriot here
Stubborn conventional conventionalist
It the pulse of every nation
It makes wind to blow world with excitement
and It has water of life.
Our language outline ourselves
We to talk to ourselves with it.
Culture is an intergalactic of our generosity
We are united in drums and trumpets
singing like the birds in the morning
with hope and passion
and ancestor joining us in tune
Cultural day will make us one
and life joined us with happiness
It’s wonderful to watch the performance
As Native American’s show us all
How it was in the old days
Standing so proud and tall
They wear their brilliant costumes
Just like they did long ago
The traditions brought before us
Because they love them so
The music and the dancing
The beads and the attire
Really do take you back
And the meanings also inspire
They feel it from their hearts
And bring the truth to us as well
You can see it in their eyes
And in their actions you can tell
I hope you get to observe some time
The Native American’s as they bring
Their culture to Oklahoma
Watch their dance and hear them sing!
Let us not become bigotry
That shall pain with past history
We need to learn and move
Along peaceful path to prove
See the result of intolerance
Blood flows with no patience
Now men want god's supremacy
As if crown is in danger by almighty
Have we gone mad?
Have we feeling of dead?
Why do we misadventure?
We have lovely future
Tolerance has no option
It has to be strengthened with relation
Human being is to be respected
The tolerance is to be acted
No other culture can replace
If humanity is to win the race
Let people go and profess
The way they like to chase
Is it modern culture to
Unclothe and denude?
Where are we going to
With our nude photographs?
Have we gone blue
With the blue films?
Do we want to import
The bar culture?
We are all just
Just here looking all around
Around the world, we have come
Come to a land
Land of fortune
Fortune to all, we are all different
Different we dare, show us your culture
Culture is all around us
Us be taught, us be educated
Educated we will survive
Survive as many peoples
Peoples are very dear
Dear to our country
Country is our home
Home to very many
Many different cultures
Australian culture, of course.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With not a poop to stop.
They peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There is a peep on pop and culture,
Without a poop to stop.
Lady Gaga got that pop.
People peep on pop and culture.
Taylor Swift's got Country Rock.
People peep on pop and culture.
And Kanye's a social poppa.
People peep on pop and culture.
With Beyonce and Jay-Z,
Seen on top in magazines.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With no poop to stop.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With no poop to stop.
We feed on Beatles.
Those songs of Beatles.
We feed on Beatles.
And...
Prince is there with beats.
And Michael Jackson's Pop is sweet.
We feed on Beatles.
Those songs of Beatles.
We feed on Beatles.
And Lady Gaga just rocks.
We feed on Beatles.
And they introduced this culture shock.
Peeps peep on pop and culture.
People peep on pop and culture.
There's a peep on pop and culture,
With not a poop to stop.
construction workers
across the street
listening to
Diana Ross'
can I get a chain reaction.
We must be aware…..,
Of the Culture Of Racism….,
It’s a slur and a swear….,
The Culture Of Racism….! ! !
Can’t turn your back….,
On the Culture Of Racism….,
Or you’ll feel the whack…,
Of the Culture Of Racism….! ! !
It’s hard to believe….
The Culture Of Racism….,
That’s why we all grieve….,
The Culture Of Racism…! ! !
We must face the facts….,
On the Culture Of Racism ….! ! !
Cause we’ve seen the attacks…..,
Of the Culture Of Racism….,
It follows us all…,
The Culture Of Racism….,
But we must stand tall….,
Against the Culture Of Racism….! ! !
Can we control or stop it….,
As long as it’s been livin’….? ? ?
That’s the priceless question….,
On the Culture Of Racism…! ! !
.............Trade Martin,  2008 & 2013
A fascinating idea in terms of humanity I try to define,
Either by Scriptural songs or scientific forms in rhyme,
Religion is centralistic repetition through cultural style,
A consolation of horrid temptations run mile after mile.
Shaping a pattern untold in ancient Hebrew Scriptural text,
Veil of divine sensation for years to bless might we regret?
Sweetly it retains a shape molded by life’s string we stand,
Indus to the Nile, Euphrates to Olympus & woman to man.
Deeper and dense this troubled world fades from the word,
Without guidance, morality, compassion they never heard,
Scriptures via sacred submissions so, who made a change?
Highly synchronized, structured biblical text is not a game.
Old Testament dreams, visions in current forms are fractured,
Knowledge and Wisdom the beginning of God manufactured,
Rituals surround such feelings where sacrifices are no longer,
Immorality! A gateway to doom fells us weaker not stronger.
Neither heaven nor hell by today’s mysteries will ever surmise,
While the Armageddon doomsday will catch many by surprise,
All fancies and scribble that fret are played out by Satan’s lies,
Awaken brethren the end of days will not be delayed by alibis.
Human’s, our own worst enemy as we have free will to decide,
Yielding a perilous journey should you mount the reapers ride?
A fierily pit, eternal damnation, worse than the fiercest Vulture,
Where to put your wager in the battle of  Scripture vs. Culture?
w/Gulsher John
A fascinating idea
if defines divinity in terms of humanity,
either by scriptural songs or
in scientific norms-
we see, religions are cultures` repetition,
veil in divine sensations.
Graciously it shaped and retains the life`s string:
from Indus to Nile and from Euphrates to Olympus.
For ages it has blessed this savage creature with faith,
morality and compassion, And consoles human temptations.
Scriptures, though sacred (but fishy too) , surely yielded  from old folk's rhymes.
A highly affected mechanism, that synced
our dreams with rituals, that heals.(believers claim)
Neither hell nor heaven, and no
Armageddon nor any doomsday,
But all are fancies and scribbles
that surely fret if you gonna play.
Living in clusters begot societies,
Which bred cultures which in turn bred ethics.
Defiance is shame, which rules one’s conduct.
The stronger the shame, the richer the culture.
27.08.2010
Have no doubt
When we talk about
Death is certain
We want it to come without pain
Each soul has to depart
As we are part
Of the divine theory
And put in motion already
Whether you like it or not
The solution has to be sought
The life is to be spent in orderly manner
Not to side with evil or sin culture
You shall have choice
When raise voice
About your past and present
You acted as messenger sent from above
Such belief makes you carefree
You have no reason to worry
As each passenger has to get down
When the destination is already known
The death may knock
In the early morning when warned by cock
As raising alarm over the appearance of death God
To take you away and free from load
Himalayan mountains the snow ranges
In heights stands there in pride
Makes a strong wall to my country
A natural safety and boundary always
People came for commerce and knowledge
They studied here the great things
Thakshasila and Nalanda universities
Which were the great knowledge centers
Sanskrit texts the source of knowledge
Various subject they dealt with
The dedicated sages written the texts
The depth of knowledge about the universe
The stars, countries, people, seas
They made their subjects for writing
Ayruveda the knowledge of natural medicine
Yoga and meditation a unique experience
Scholars on poetry, dramas, and dances
Abundant they written in texts
The great text of economics that written
Chanakya  the genius lived here
The Centers of learning Budha Monastries
Professed religion of peace and non violence
May be the influence of snow mountains
The calmful climate that gave inspiration
Himalaya stands ever in heights and proud
As a silent witness of world happenings.
Open your naive eyes…..,
To the Culture Of Stupidity….,
It’s all around you….,
The Culture Of Stupidity ….! !
No way to escape….,
From the Culture Of Stupidity ….,
It haunts and stalks you…,
The Culture Of Stupidity ….! !
It’s hard to believe it….,
The Culture Of Stupidity ….,
That so many can’t see it….,
The Culture Of Stupidity …! !
As liberals keep shying away…..,
From the overwhelming threat…..,
Of radical terrorism today…..,
How long will The Culture Of Stupidity go on….? ?
My answer is as simple as this….,
The Culture Of Stupidity shall live on…..,
As long as humankind and liberalism will exist…! !
Violence has become the common feature of stories
And movies to thrill the audience with actions..!
Nonviolence in stories and movies are boring to
Read and see according to the audience everywhere!
In reality too, violence seems to be impossible to
Bring to an end to the world starving for peace and
Love everywhere as mechanical money making life is
Full of tension and danger in busymetro cities..!
Love, joy and peace are out of place everywhere now
As thrilling action and pleasure after action are
The regular features of everyday life and movies
That seem to be all right in the world life of all!
This kind of culture-less world is a great jungle...,
But not an Utopian civilization that solves all ills!
We proud of our nation and our culture
we proud we have great history
we have gifted with great knowledge
we had great leaders
And proud with great Budha
and his sacrifice
The great Gandhi
A gifting, shared as a broken heart
The great old leaders
Each carrying one with our heart of heart
And wings in perfect harmony  of music
and great musicians
Untouched and beautiful.
Lifts from the soul heavenly
Bhagat Sing
Feather fans of sacrifice
When we visit Rajghat in respectful ritual.
we flies to an ending  now?
Miss  to the lights  to a darken age
A prayer for the light to shine to us
The Indian culture is very sound,
it is based upon the family background.
The bond of their relationship is such found,
that we can smell the presence like the hounds.
The Indian families are generally spiritual,
living in a joint family is traditional.
Love among each other is proportional,
the partition of property makes them emotional.
The support of the members is generous,
their affection towards us is precious,
their devotion towards us is fabulous,
these things make me feel very specious.
The strength of the family can even fight with the tide,
where sadness goes away and hide.
Where even obstacles give them the side,
being the member of such a family is my pride.
Underage minors take care
To brush your teeth and comb you hair
One hundred times before you go out
For sacrifice to the dragon’s lair
useless exuberance is dead
it died in the winter of America
the age of Aquarius is lost
it sold out on bargain day at Macy's
culture has been auctioned
education yielded to profit
buy a degree with debt
you get a scroll but no job
a consumer economy rules
production is outsourced
elections are bought
corporate personhood is law
pay as you go for congress
attack ads and lying campaigns
pout and shut the government down
forget what the people need
screw it all and cash your check
no one resists television
the epitome of mindlessness
no news on cable news
biased viewpoints of lunacy
hours of talking heads
the country and the world rots
our infrastructure crumbles
commercials push drugs
antacids for an acrid mentality
commercials prey on fear
cure your induced addictions
lose your belly fat
we cling to a cancerous life
new apps and video games
literature is unreality
reality TV is literature
poetry is prose
books are obsolete
newspapers are pamphlets
music is processed like cheese
organic music is the local bar
a dance beat and video visuals rule
lyricism is dead
racism is dumbed down to code
hatred sells like cheap wine
elections reveal transparent xenophobia
bitterness has replaced solutions
communication is babble
heads bowed to the eye phone religion
reading text messages
avoiding conversation
facebook has replaced face time
the timeline is for dogs and babies
the news infiltrated with ads
malware sprouts like weeds
the revolution will not be televised*
culture was sold to the highest bidder
The celebration is on
For simple man
And really remembered as human
Who helped villagers as headman?
No one remembers
And offers
So much of respect
But for noble acts
The story might have remained untold
But whole of the village was told and retold
About great man every year
His loss was felt very dearly
The village culture is different
Even today it is present
The activity of head man is seen with keen interest
Ashe tries his level best
Only good people are remembered
So the great tribute is offered
On his death anniversary
To remember his contribution and carry the impression
Many guests filling home with talk and Tibetan
culture.
A beautiful dog, tail wagging, hoping to greet
each one personally.
Being frustrated behind a screen door, pacing
excitedly back and forth with each new arrival.
Never having a chance to even say hello to one.
Tradition & culture- Moroccan way
Thursday,14th May 2020
As Moroccan kingdom of an ancient culture
it has all the rights to take precautions for he future
to preserve language, heritage
and equally manage the relations with outside world
it is good to learn more languages
and manage or compete with an out side countries
but not at the cost of local languages
one must hold the pride and prestige
if Arabic language is not given importance
it will loose its chance
as unique kingdom
who has held the tradition and customs
if there is western leaning
it has got some meaning
the world has opened many fields
but tradition and cultural bonds should be definitely held
any nation shall feel proud
and Moroccans should say it loud
here we are and going to stay
for our traditions, religion along with the humanitarian way
Hasmukh Mehta
Install any dishonest man
To look after and protect the humans
He shall oblige
Improve conduct and change
People were stunned
When saw a shepherd
Giving justice on the spot
People dug out place and found holy crown seat
People believed in his words
As holy as from that of lord
No one questioned his wisdom
He was acting as if king of mighty kingdom
It is place
That puts him above race
He feels holder of divine spirit
Improves his behavior and greets
Today scenario has changed
Leaders have poisoned
The ears of the people by telling lies
And filling their own bellies
Justice is sold in market
Many agents make it convenient
You need to spend money or bribe
We are returning old culture of tribes
All the time, such a temperament
Cannot take us far away
In the mission and vision of life,
I do not ask you to be a moral policeman,
The local guardian of morality,
But at least think you womankind,
Writhing under domestic violence and bruises,
Flesh trade and woman trafficking,
Slavery and kitchen work
And from these, there is no escape from
And above all, the birth pangs intolerable,
I mean the creational pangs!
What have I understood
And they taught me not too,
I know nothing about India,
The impregnable northeast of,
Their multi-ethnicity and diverse cultural ethos,
The linguistic variety?
The Bodos, the ethnic and linguistic tribe, of the Brahmaputra valley,
You do not destroy the culture and tradition
Of the Bodos of the Bodoland,
The sons of Bodo,
Making them embroiled in a plot
As for the north Indians' strategic conspiracy.
Their life-style, art of living, health and hygiene,
Let them continue with
Heir own tradition,
The Bodods of the Bodoland,
Living in harmony,
Not with demands
For a separate homeland.
One of the Tibeto-Burmese family, Bodo language
Takes us to across the borders and its fringes,
Crossing over to
The domains far flung, over to
With Brahmoism as
The of faith of the people
Rearing and sustaining them so long.
Their Bagurumba, the traditional dance style,
We still admire the traditional folk dance,
Their weaving and keeping of the loom,
Their art and craft,
Their love of fishing, farming,
Cattle-rearing and piggery.
Assam and its beauty
One can mark it through the note of diversity,
Thesis and anti-thesis,
A hub of inflection and intermixing,
Opening avenues and canopies beyond
Lading to the borders
Far across into Central Asia.
When we lose our culture
We lose our identity
Green was culture, Green were you.
After a revolt, after a red,
You have become black,
Your culture black.
Perhaps, I will write in black.
Hip pop, hip hop, Bi pop,
Jockey tight, body loose.
Loose is the costume,
Loose is your future.
It is thy culture.
I get up in heat,
Tightening my feet,
Empty heat, Empty Zest.
I am thirsty to change you.
Can you give me some water?
You too get up in heat,
Posing your fittings,
Around your settings.
I am thirsty for water,
You are thirsty for culture.
You forgot your origin and seed,
While you are busy to feed need.
You want a trend,
You want a mixture,
Thinking change is must.
I see a mass culture building,
At the outdoors you are kneeling.
You are kneeling with feeling,
Begging for hybridity,
For a culture of santry.
I was not a poet,
But your condition made me.
I have a query for your culture,
Will this continue in future?
I think yes; what you say?
.
One Two Three Four
One Two Three Four
Forwards. Sideways.
Sideways. Back...
Victor Sylvester, Victor Sylvester,
I thought of you yester-
day, white tie and tails,
trousers as tight
as a ball without a ballroom,
Cuban Romeo moustache and
patent leather hair...
drumming out strict tempo
the tempo of our lives
learning to dance girlfriends
into bed or into wives...
do they still teach ballroom
to your hissing records,
down in Cheam or Purley,
head up, shiny shoes,
pressed tight, breast to breast,
adolescents wondering
if a jockstrap would be best?
now it's coming back, I see,
One Two One Two
swing her round and pronto,
but watch, don't dropp her onto
that shiny shellacked floor...
Ou sont les disques d'antan, je me demande?
....gone and played, the yesteryears..
our sweaty-sweet Sylvester years..
one two, one two,
our memory's locked embrace...
You walk up to me
those blue oceans of yours twinkling
as you take my hand
and lead me towards the crowded room...
As your arm goes around me I smile
while we begin to drift away
into our own little fantasy world
that only the two of us can occupy...
You slowly move in closer
until you're inches away from my eyes
the essence of you going through me
as you softly speak into my mind...
The music has ended now
back to reality we stand
looking at each other with a new light
wondering what will happen the next time we dance...
a dance?
a candle flame
courting
faint breeze
to and fro
to and fro
slender
shadows
the autumn leaf
twists,  twists
on  a twig
eve of separation
lovers refusing
each other go
red and brown maple
swirl in unison
beat their last drum
then let themselves
free from hangers
trail the breeze
swirl, twirl,
somersault,
jump over each other
hip hop dancers
in maddening mood
the two parter
floral crepe curtain
at the open  window
springs a solitary flight
up down,  down up,  twists
her fair and frail physique
over the field
a pink lotus in lake
gently, gently
a darting shadow
over the blazing sky
the ants on a
floating leaf
run round the edge
cross to the other edge
run round the edge
cross to the other edge
rain
under the streetlamp
swarm of insects
drunken, in their last frenzy
over elixir of light
joining the fiesta
in the streets
reflected in carlight
a million girls jump
flaunt their skirts
and well honed postures
heels over heads
Could I ask you to dance, madam?
Let’s go to dance to this music.
You mustn’t be a lonely woman
When everything is so rhythmic.
Why do you lower your eyes?
Why do you blush and tremble?
I see disbelief on your face...
Your touch is timid and gentle.
I feel your heart beat like a bell.
You speed up though music is slow.
What happened, my dear dancer?
Is there a trouble or sorrow?
I ask you, but you keep silent.
I give a tighter hug to you.
What a dance! I love this movement.
I dream it will begin anew…
All work is over at the farm
And men and maids are ripe for glee;
Love slips among them sly and warm
Or calls them to the chestnut-tree.
As Colin looks askance at Jane
He draws his hand across his mouth;
She understands the rustic pain,
And something of the tender south
About her milkmaid beauty flits.
Her dress of lilac print for guide
Draws shepherd Colin where she sits,
Who, faring to her lovely side
To snatch his evening pension tries,
But skimming like a bird from clutch
The maid escapes his Cupid touch,
And speeding down a passage flies
Not fast enough to cheat his eyes.
Ah, sweet-lip ways and sweet-lip days,
And sweetheart captures of the waist,
How swiftly still the virgin runs
She's sure at last to be embraced!
Now Colin fires at kiss delayed,
And faster flits the red stone floor
Till Fortune yields the tricky maid
A captive at the pantry door!
The farmer with his fifty years
Is not too old to join the fun;
He pulls the milkmaids' pinky ears
And bids a likely stripling run
To find the fiddlers for a dance:
And in the cherry orchard there
A tune shall mingle with romance,
And love be brave in open air.
The village wakens to the bliss,
The crones and gaffers crawl to see
The country game of step and kiss
Beneath the laden cherry-tree.
The chairs and benches now are set,
Old John is wheedled from his pet,
The cider cup with beady eyes
Responds to winkings of the skies.
The farmer, burly in his chair,
Now claps for ev'ry fond and fair
To foot it on the grassy patch
While rustic violinists snatch
From out those varnished birds of wood
A tune to jink it in the blood.
Now Jane and Colin in a trice
Float sweetly round not less than thrice
Before their motion draws a pair
To revel with the dancing air.
The thrush, that on his velvet wipes
His juicy bill, protesting pipes,
And, somewhat as a piccolo,
Doth race the concord of the bow.
A virgin yonder by the tree
Rejects a mate who saucily
Would press, if she might only start,
Her modest homespun to his heart.
Ah, sweet-lip ways and sweet-lip days,
And sweetheart captures of the waist,
Though like a finch the maiden flies
She's sure at last to be embraced.
The orchard now is in full bloom
With rosy cheek and snowdrop throat;
The stars invade the growing gloom,
And rarelier sounds the blackbird's note.
But in this dewy little park
Love burns the brighter for the dark,
And till he use a stricter rule
Dear Cicely's cheek shall never cool!
The fiddlers storm a tomboy tune,
The shepherds closer clasp the girls
While skirts the more desert the shoon,
And rebel leap the loely curls.
The farmer glows within his chair
And muses on the dancing time
When he and she--a matchless pair--
Were warm and nimble in their prime.
God bless the man who, duller grown,
Can feel the younger heaven anew
By granting to his maids and men
A romp by starlight in the dew!
Ah, greenwood ways and greenwood days,
And soft pursuings of the waist,
The cheek must yellow out of praise,
And bent be those who once embraced!
And now they pant against the trees,
And, using darkness for their plan,
Girls loose the garters at their knees
And mend the clumsiness of man.
One virgin, thankful for the dance,
About the music shyly trips--
Her Love's a fiddler, and her love
Pops fruit in Paganini's lips;
Or finding on the starlit tree
The wife and husband cherry there,
She hangs the couple at his cheek
And hides the stalk with tufts of hair.
The girls are at the cider-cup,
And shepherds tilt the yellow base
Until a giddy amber flood
Runs, kissing, over Cicely's face,
And Dora's upper lip doth shine
With winking beads of apple-wine.
The fiddlers scrape a farewell tune,
The dancers dwindle in the dusk
While summer puffs of easy wind
Bring hints of cottage garden musk.
And thus the revel dearly ends
With milkmaid's palm in shepherd's hand,
And lovers grow from only friends
Where plum and pear and apple stand.
Ah, sweet-lip ways and sweet-lip days,
And sweetheart captures of the waist,
How fast so-e'er the virgin flies
She's sure at last to be embraced!
I dance alone in the shadows
My feet barely touching the ground
Walzing through the night
Lightly thinking, lightly stepping,
Hardley breathing at all.
My heart beat echos through the darkness
Singing with the beat
tarrump tarrump tarrump
My eyes glisten as i hear a voice
perhaps one that has come to save me from my lonliness.
It draws nearer by the second
yet with each passing breath it sounds farther away
Have you come to dance with me?
Or have you brought with you some light?
my home is in the darkness.
in the shadows of the night.
My tears have become my blanket
they keep me safe and warm.
the thunder, my companion
my friend the cold winter storm.
This is the world i live in.
do not judge me for what i am
Once strong and proud and hopeful.
now weak and worthless and damned.
my mirror of truth is broken
i once saw a healthy face
now cracked and scarred and starven
ugly with discrace.
so if, you, voice have come to save me
there is one thing that i must warn
the task you take is not easy:
Save my life, no matter how tattered, broken, or worn.
And you shall be my savior...
I'm sitting here at home
trying to write a simple poem
I'm staring at the floor
Not knowing whats in store
I see a trail of ants
then I try and take a stance
To get a closer look
and that was all it took...
I watched with fascination
One of the tiniest of creations
Communicate to each other
To their sisters and their brothers
It was funny at first glance
As it seemed to be a dance
They weren't using hands like us
It was a different kind of trust
They were using their antennas
To show what was on their new agenda
They would walk up to each other
Face to face but not to smother
Then their antennas start to fly
As they tickle in the sky
Passing along the information
On from station to new station
The words they passed along
Must have been so very strong
Because in their antenna dance
The ants seemed to be in such a trance
Even all the younger
seemed to have a little hunger
Every word was understood
To follow if they could
'Please, all step in line
and you'll find a place to dine! '
21 March 2007
Autumn.
Fall.
Leaves drop. Cranberry, gold, chocolate, and rust.
Twitter and giggle as the wind blows them about.
Black birds glide through the air with a graceful ebb and flow.
Breathing in and out.
Confused, perhaps, on which way to fly.
The weather, sweet Mother, taunting us with warm days and cold nights.
Swift breezes.
Sweet hot cocoa kisses.
Gleam in the eye's of babes, tossing leaves up and out of their grasp. Only to watch them glide back down to the starting position.
Hot teas, warm soups, crusty breads, melted butter.
Shawls wrapped around chilly shoulders.
Warm arms nestling you into love.
Snuggling under blankets.
This is the season to Fall.
Fall into dreams, kisses, love, and joy.
Hibernation begins.
The season of hearty living, warm embraces and joyful awareness in ones own self.
Welcome Autumn.
Welcome to the Fall of life.
A time when maturity has reached it's peak and spirals back down to rest before beginning again.
The Spiral dance has begun.
We decline, to ascend.
We bow down, to rise again.
We ebb and flow to the rhythm of life.
Inhale and exhale.
We all dance to this beat.
We dance with quiet feet.
Welcome, Welcome, I welcome you with warmth and gratefulness.
Come, and begin the dance with us.
We have been waiting.
Dance!
Dance!
The priest is yellow with sunflower meal,
He is yellow with corn-meal,
He is yellow as the sun.
Dance!
Dance!
His little bells are ringing,
The bells tinkle like sunlight,
The sun is rising.
Dance!
Dance!
Perhaps I will throw you a basket,
Perhaps I will throw you my heart.
Lift the baskets, dancing,
Lower the baskets, dancing,
We have raised fruits,
Now we dance.
Our shadows are long,
The sunlight is bright between our shadows.
Do you want my basket?
Catch it!
Catch it!
But you cannot catch me,
I am more difficult.
At first I thought she waltzed,
but then I saw the error of
my observation powers.
She waddled, all that blubber,
garnished with shoulder pads,
covert suspenders and duct tape,
size called 'infinity', a wave
of air preceded the mass,
mostly the temperature was high
but in the noise of raucous laughter
it was hard to tell what happened.
Yes, men were at her feet, all over
the dancing hall, though hardwood
on a polished floor is without comfort.
No one was able to keep standing,
it was too much to grin and bear.
Majestic gestures emanated, clearly,
there was confusion as to the identity
and origin, was this thing human then?
And, in the end it was decided that
it had been good to have this episode,
though fleeting pay its short visit,
although the most intriguing part
about the thing, consisted of its skills
to speak of things that human beings
hold dear, some raunchy stuff included.
And all were shocked, though pretty glad
when hardwood planks did give and cracked,
and Blubber sank to vanish through the hole,
from where some devils must have grabbed
to commandeer the energy, all the triglycerides,
not food for thought but something quite substantial.
But in the Wine-presses the human grapes sing not nor dance:
They howl and writhe in shoals of torment, in fierce flames consuming,
In chains of iron and in dungeons circled with ceaseless fires,
In pits and dens and shades of death, in shapes of torment and woe:
The plates and screws and racks and saws and cords and fires and cisterns
The cruel joys of Luvah's Daughters, lacerating with knives
And whips their victims, and the deadly sport of Luvah's Sons.
They dance around the dying and they drink the howl and groan,
They catch the shrieks in cups of gold, they hand them to one another:
These are the sports of love, and these the sweet delights of amorous play,
Tears of the grape, the death sweat of the cluster, the last sigh
Of the mild youth who listens to the luring songs of Luvah.----
amber light
falling sand
dancers move
with efforless grace
afterwards
a lone dancer
rakes a spiral
to a Gregorian chant
Come dance with me and find release,
howl to the moon, with wild wolves run,
no nightmares now as heart finds peace, -
a stellar future crowned with fun
shall underwrite harvest increase
two reap together, story spun
from morn to night as worries cease,
while one and one at last make one.
Come dance we'll circumnavigate
the seven seas as zephyr’s breeze
anticipates and may translate
past cares to luck which soul strings frees.
Harp, Terpsichore shall play as Fate
unwinds past phantom_mime banshees,
life’s letter stamps ‘reciprocate’
inventing new realities.
Come dance with me, unlearn life’s woe
owe only to your inner voice
as chivalry and honour flow -
no need to justify your choice.
Slow motion – Time stood still – will throw
away wait’s weights as both rejoice
in unexpected overthrow
of anchors as trim sails we hoist.
Come dance with me, no strings attached –
except of harp or violin -
devotion, eloquence unmatched,
will shed all lies of ties that sin.
Thus inner doors may be unlatched,
as new dimensions open in
embracing wave which saves unscratched
soul stirred from hibernation’s bin.
Come dance with me, endearing smile
will echo caring, sharing, joy,
while Lara’s theme will reconcile
true love to trust, no wiles employ.
Tiara  crowned Princess no guile
may meet who, sweet, greets verse employ
as an expression timed to dial
away Time’s hands all else destroy.
Come dance with me, no judgment blind
will claim, will, blame, will shame, reject, -
all icicles soon left behind
Spring’s robin sings you’re soul elect.
From past which could be less unkind
we’ll destination fly direct
where all but lines are underlined,
no need for conduct circumspect.
Come dance, together we’ll unlearn
the past’s mistakes, to future fair
to promised land hand, hand, will turn
with light and laughter everywhere.
The seasons slip by, none return,
yet bird’s song echoes, in your hair
may make its nest, chirp soft, not spurn,
and answer questions pondered there.
Come dance with me, I’ll hold you tight,
In tenderness which knows no bounds,
Restoring hidden wings for flight
Tears soon shall ceasee, – for fears no grounds.
Here magic, comfort, and respite,
there melody received resounds,
acceptance and contentment quite
unmeasured pleasure ache impounds.
Come dance with me, and we will learn
what makes lips tingle, goose-bumps rise,
what makes spine shiver, plush blush burn
each day will bring some fresh surprise.
Eyes Isis envies will discern
from green to blue each spark that flies,
as touch, from glitter fairy’s fern
may guide, not steer, still share concern.
Come dance with me, I’ll always keep,
my word - a promise from my heart -
integrity runs very deep,
each part of each need never part.
Thus whether way is slope or steep
Until Earth’s end – which sings fresh start –
alert I’d watch awake, asleep,
protecting dreams from sudden start.
Come dance, from trap or golden cage,
forever free to spread your wings
in harmony which knows nor rage,
nor stings nor slaps, - where spirit sings
in ecstasy as, turning page,
we’ll Autumn sage and Summer’s swings
unite as, taking center stage,
Spring warmth from Winter’s tumult springs.
Come dance, your silent grace shall show
how one above, below, unique
shines out, from shadows free, whose glow
pre-empts necessity to speak.
From yesterdays the future’s flow
shall still remember tender cheek,
yet turn towards joy’s overflow,
life liberate from sadness, pique.
Come dance to tune which wounded heart
returns to health and inspiration
we’ll reel, we’ll heal, real hopes may chart
beyond old altar’s altercation.
Past struggles’ tide and tears depart,
as sun and moon anticipation
eliminate invasive dart,
while heralding emancipation.
Come dance with me, we’ll share the key
that opens inspiration’s portal
uncover wellspring’s latency -
spirit infinite, immortal, -
find answers to eternity
withheld from passing shadow mortal
as soul’s connection as one we
establish, spurn deceptions’ maw well.
Come dance with me, I’ve said before, -
who twice ten thousand lines could add, -
and here repeat for one time more
ambition plain: to turn sad glad.
If this sweet song your pleasure move
this greeting was inscribed Above
all let and hindrance swift remove –
come live with me and be my love …
3 February 2007
robi03_1600_marl01_0002 PXX_LXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
THE PASSIONATE SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE
Come live with me and be my love,
And we will all the pleasures prove
That hills and valleys, dales and fields,
Or woods or steepy mountain yields.
And we will sit upon the rocks,
And see the shepherds feed their flocks
By shallow rivers, to whose falls
Melodious birds sing madrigals.
And I will make thee beds of roses
And a thousand fragrant posies,
A cap of flowers, and a kittle
Embroider’d all with leaves of myrtle,
A gown made of the finest wool
Which from our pretty lambs we pull.
Fair-lined slippers for the cold,
With buckles of the purest gold.
A belt of straw and ivy-buds
With coral clasps and amber studs:
And if these pleasures may thee move,
Come live with me and be my love.
Thy silver dishes for thy meat
As precious as the gods do eat,
Shall on an ivory table be
Prepared each day for thee and me.
The shepherd swains shall dance and sing
For thy delight each My morning,
If these delights thy mind may move,
then live with me and be my love.
Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593 Published 1592
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
COME LIVE WITH ME - THE NYMPH'S REPLY
If all the world and love were young,
And truth in every shepherd's tongue,
These pretty pleasures might me move
To live with thee and be thy Love.
But Time drives flocks from field to fold;
When rivers rage and rocks grow cold;
And Philomel becometh dumb;
The rest complains of cares to come.
The flowers do fade, and wanton fields
To wayward Winter reckoning yields:
A honey tongue, a heart of gall,
Is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall.
Thy gowns, thy shoes, thy beds of roses,
Thy cap, thy kirtle, and thy posies,
Soon break, soon wither - soon forgotten,
In folly ripe, in reason rotten.
Thy belt of straw and ivy-buds,
Thy coral clasps and amber studs, -
All these in me no means can move
To come to thee and be thy Love.
But could youth last, and love still breed,
Had joys no date, nor age no need,
Then these delights my mind might move
To live with thee and be thy Love.
Sir Walter RALEIGH 1552_1618 rale02_0001_marl01_0002 PXX_LXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE The Passionate Shepherd to His Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
THE BAIT
Come live with me, and be my love,
And we will some new pleasures prove
Of golden sands, and crystal brooks,
With silken lines, and silver hooks.
There will the river whispering run
Warmed by thy eyes, more than the sun.
And there th'enamoured fish will stay,
Begging themselves they may betray.
When thou wilt swim in that live bath,
Each fish, which every channel hath,
Will amorously to thee swim,
Gladder to catch thee, than thou him.
If thou, to be so seen, be'st loth,
By sun, or moon, thou darkenest both,
And if myself have leave to see,
I need not their light, having thee.
Let others freeze with angling reeds,
And cut their legs, with shells and weeds,
Or treacherously poor fish beset,
With strangling snare, or windowy net:
Let coarse bold hands, from slimy nest
The bedded fish in banks out-wrest,
Or curious traitors, sleave silk flies
Bewitch poor fishes' wandering eyes.
For thee, thou need'st no such deceit,
For thou thyself art thine own bait,
That fish, that is not catched thereby,
Alas, is wiser far than I.
John DONNE 1572_1631 donn02_0003_marl01_0002 PXX_JMX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
THE SHEPHERD TO HIS FAIR ONE
To Phillis, to love and live with him
Live, live with me, and thou shalt see
The pleasures I'll prepare for thee:
What sweets the country can afford
Shall bless thy bed, and bless thy board.
The soft sweet moss shall be thy bed,
With crawling woodbine over-spread:
By which the silver-shedding streams
Shall gently melt thee into dreams.
Thy clothing next, shall be a gown
Made of the fleeces' purest down.
The tongues of kids shall be thy meat;
Their milk thy drink; and thou shalt eat
The paste of filberts for thy bread
With cream of cowslips buttered:
Thy feasting-table shall be hills
With daisies spread, and daffadils;
Where thou shalt sit, and Red-breast by,
For meat, shall give thee melody.
I'll give thee chains and carcanets
Of primroses and violets.
A bag and bottle thou shalt have,
That richly wrought, and this as brave;
So that as either shall express
The wearer's no mean shepherdess.
At shearing-times, and yearly wakes,
When Themilis his pastime makes,
There thou shalt be; and be the wit,
Nay more, the feast, and grace of it.
On holydays, when virgins meet
To dance the heys with nimble feet,
Thou shalt come forth, and then appear
The Queen of Roses for that year.
And having danced ('bove all the best)
Carry the garland from the rest,
In wicker-baskets maids shall bring
To thee, my dearest shepherdling,
The blushing apple, bashful pear,
And shame-faced plum, all simp'ring there.
Walk in the groves, and thou shalt find
The name of Phillis in the rind
Of every straight and smooth-skin tree;
Where kissing that, I'll twice kiss thee.
To thee a sheep-hook I will send,
Be-prank'd with ribbands, to this end,
This, this alluring hook might be
Less for to catch a sheep, than me.
Thou shalt have possets, wassails fine,
Not made of ale, but spiced wine;
To make thy maids and self free mirth,
All sitting near the glitt'ring hearth.
Thou shalt have ribbands, roses, rings,
Gloves, garters, stockings, shoes, and strings
Of winning colours, that shall move
Others to lust, but me to love. -
These, nay, and more, thine own shall be,
If thou wilt love, and live with me.
Robert HERRICK 1591_1674 herr01_0007_marl01_0002 PXX_LXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
COME LIVE WITH ME AND BE MY LOVE
Come, live with me and be my love,
And we will all the pleasures prove
Of peace and plenty, bed and board,
That chance employment may afford.
I’ll handle dainties on the docks
And thou shalt read of summer frocks:
At evening by the sour canals
We’ll hope to hear some madrigals.
Care on thy maiden brow shall put
A wreath of wrinkles, and thy foot
Be shod with pain: not silken dress
But toil shall tire thy loveliness.
Hunger shall make thy modest zone
And cheat fond death of all but bone –
If these delights thy mind may move,
Then live with me and be my love.
Cecil Day LEWIS 1904_1972  lewi2_0001_marl01_0002 PXX_JLX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
ATLANTIC CITY IDYLL
Come bet with me and be my luck
and bring me gimlets tart with lime.
We’ll chase the wily holy buck
and toss the dice and sneer at time.
And we will dazzle in our clothes
and neon dazzle us as well.
We’ll strike a sleek and moneyed pose,
we’ll yell a blithe, ecstatic yell
until at last we’ve squandered all,
shot the wad and maxed the cards,
until we’ve quaffed till dawns appall
and hoarse are velvet-throated bards.
Come stroll with me and be my muse
of feckless hope and vain desire.
On the boardwalk the huckster woos
and Armless Annie tongues her lyre.
Kate BENEDICT 19xx_20xx bene02_0001_marl01_0002 PWX_JXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
THE DISPASSIONATE SHEPHERDESS
Do not live with me, do not be my love.
And yet I think we may some pleasures prove
That who enjoy each other, in the haste
Of their most inward kissing, seldom taste.
Being absent from me, you shall still delay
To come to me, and if another day,
No matter, so your greeting burn as though
The words had all the while been picked in snow.
No other gift you'll offer me but such
As I can neither wear, nor smell, nor touch -
No flowers breathing of evening, and no stones
Whose chilly fire outlasts our skeletons.
You'll give me once a thought that stings, and once
A look to make my blood doubt that it runs.
You'll give me rough and sharp perplexities,
And never, never will you give me ease.
For one another's blessing not designed,
Marked for possession only of the mind,
And soon, because such cherishing is brief,
To ask whereon was founded our belief.
That there was anything at all uncommon
In what each felt for each as man and woman -
If this then be our case, if this our story,
Shall we rail at heaven? Shall we, at the worst, be sorry?
Heaven's too deaf, we should grow hoarse with railing,
And sorrow never quickened what was failing.
But if you think we thus may pleasures prove,
Do not live with me, do not be my love.
Babette DEUTSCH 1895_1982 deut01_0001_marl01_0002 PXX_LXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
BACCHANAL
“Come live with me and be my love, ”
He said, in substance.  “There’s no vine
We will not pluck the clusters of,
Or grape we will not turn to wine.”
It’s autumn of their second year.
Now he, in seasonal pursuit,
With rich and modulated cheer,
Brings home the festive purple fruit;
And she, by passion once demented,
- That woman out of Botticelli –
She brews and bottles, unfermented,
The stupid and abiding jelly.
VRIES Peter de 1910_19 vrie01_0001_marl01_0002 PWX_LJX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
LOVE UNDER THE REPUBLICANS (OR DEMOCRATS)
Come live with me and be my love
And we will all the pleasures prove
Of a marriage conducted with economy
In the Twentieth Century Anno Donomy.
We’ll live in a dear little walk-up flat
With practically room to swing a cat
And a potted cactus to give it hauteur
And a bathtub equipped with dark brown water.
We’ll eat, without undue discouragement,
Foods low in cost but high in nouragement
And quaff with pleasure, while chatting wittily,
The peculiar wine of Little Italy.
We’ll remind each other it’s smart to be thrifty
And buy our clothes for something-fifty.
We’ll bus for miles on holidays
For seas at depressing matinees,
And every Sunday we’ll have a lark
And take a walk in Central Park.
And one of these days not too remote
You’ll probably up and cut my throat.
Ogden NASH 1902_1971 - Verses from 1929 On
Nash01_0011_marl01_0002 PWX_DJL
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
THE PASSIONATE PROFITEER TO HIS LOVE
Come feed with me and be my love,
And pleasures of the table prove,
Where Prunier and The Ivy yield
Choice dainties of the stream and field.
At Claridge thou shalt duckling eat,
Sip vintages both dry and sweet,
And thou shalt squeeze between thy lips
Asparagus with buttered tips.
On caviare my love shall graze,
And plump on salmon mayonnaise,
And browse at Scott’s beside thy swain
On lobster Newburg with champagne.
Between hors d’oeuvres and canapés
I’ll feast thee on poularde soufflé
And every day within thy reach
Pile melon, nectarine and peach.
Come share at the Savoy with me
The menu of austerity;
If in these pastures thou wouldst rove
Then feed with me and be my love.
« Sagittarius » Targets 1942
KATZIN Olga Miller 1896_1987 katz01_0009_marl01_0002 PXX_JLX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
THE PASSIONATE SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE
I love thee - I love thee!
'Tis all that I can say;
It is my vision in the night,
My dreaming in the day;
The very echo of my heart,
The blessing when I pray:
I love thee - I love thee!
Is all that I can say.
I love thee - I love thee!
Is ever on my tongue;
In all my proudest poesy
That chorus still is sung;
It is the verdict of my eyes,
Amidst the gay and young:
I love thee - I love thee!
A thousand maids among.
I love thee - I love thee!
Thy bright and hazel glance,
The mellow lute upon those lips,
Whose tender tones entrance;
But most, dear heart of hearts, thy proofs
That still these words enhance.
I love thee - I love thee!
Whatever be thy chance.
Thomas Hood 1799_1845
Hood01_0008_marl01_0002 PXX_LXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
A MICROSCOPIC SERENADE
“Oh come, my love, and seek with me
A realm by grosser eye unseen,
Where fairy forms will welcome thee,
And dainty creatures hail thee queen.
In silent pools the tube I’ll ply,
Where green conferva-threads lie curled,
And proudly bring to thy bright eye
The trophies of the protist world.
We’ll rouse the stentor from his lair,
And gaze into the cyclops ’ eye;
In chara and nitella hair
The protoplasmic stream descry,
For ever weaving to and fro
With faint molecular melody,
And curious rotifers I’ll show,
And graceful vorticellidae.
Where melicertae ply their craft
We’ll watch the playful water-bear,
And no envenomed hydra’s shaft
Shall mar our peaceful pleasure there;
But while we whisper love’ssweettale
We’ll trace, with sympathetic cart,
Within the embryonic snail
The growing rudimental heart.
Where rolls the volvox sphere of green,
And plastids move in Brownian dance -
If, wandering ‘mid that gentle scene,
Two fond amoebae shall perchance
Be changed to one beneath our sight
By process of biocrasis,
We’ll recognise, with rare delight,
A type of our prospective bliss.
Or dearer thou by far to me
In thy sweet maidenly estate
Than any seventy-fifth could be,
Of aperture however great!
Come, go with me and we will stray
Through realm by grosser eye unseen,
Where protophytes shall homage pay,
And protozoa hail thee queen.”
“Jacob HENRICI” Scribners November 1879
PSsc01_0001_marl01_0002 PXX_LXX
Parody Christopher MARLOWE 1564_1593
The Passionate Shepherd to His Love – Come Live with Me and Be my Love
THE PASSIONATE HOUSEHOLDER TO HIS LOVE
A little ray of hope across a midnight sky
A time for all time, a light to shine
Sunrise and sunset caught in one net
For ever fighting to stay one.
A moon and a sun wanting to be as one
To set together, in a time lost in forever
Earth moon and stars fade together
A longing that fades into forever
The Alpha and Omega fading in and out
Longing to be together but always in doubt
A rainbow brings hope,
A new way to cope
We all need thathope
To stop salt filled tears from falling
Oiling the way for another day
Nearly reached your hand this time;
I know if you’re there,
it has to be a good place.
If we’d touched,
would you have danced with me?
I’ve danced with babies on my hip,
and on stages just
out of reach of finger tips;
danced on daddy’s feet.
I’ve lost my breath,
drowning and it hurts so.
Daddy, dance me
through this darkness into luminescence.
You once saved me
from that beautiful obsidian man,
who cut me to the bone;
now save me from myself.
Crash through my palisade again
and rescue me daddy,
waltz me to freedom.
Dance for Nataraja before you,
Dance for the Gods around you,
Dance for the knowledge bestowed on you,
Dance for the divinity blessed on you,
Dance for the goodness and joy spread before you,
Dance for the spirit hidden within you!
Words can fail like magnets not sticking to the fridge
and we all complain when the rent is due again.
Pay your bills and meet the obligations of
the world, never mind attending to the
payment of your soul.
The new voice is speaking, the new religion
has been announced. We are to celebrate
everything and tradition we are to renounce.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
We are to ignore the truth of the Gospel
for too many find that it offends.  We must
not have complaining and so we must merge
into one blend. Let the fires burn so
brightly as we burn away the words
we do not like. Dance a multi-coloured
dance of rainbow prisms and
inter-faith delusions.
Men should not sleep with women, for
that is not the way the new voices want
it to be. Instead they should seek male
partners and live in illusions of
conformity. We must not call a spade
a spade for in doing so we ignore
the new mindset.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
No need to wave flags for we must
not cause nationalism to exist. Only
one nation is right and that is the
propaganda we must believe. So we
watch our televsions and rejoice
in the latest American war.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
The parade has begun, and the marchers
have lined up like soliders in a drill.
The banners are ready ot wave, the
sound of music will soon flood the
streets. We will march for equality
and conform ourselves to a plastic
sheeted state of being.  Dance a
multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
And though the old ways will not die,
we will pretend they do not matter.
We will surrender ourselves to
immoral methods of existing. We
will speak only of politically correct
topics and we shall never disagree.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
Dance, dance and dance
Dance at once
If you get chance
To celebrate joy
With intention to enjoy
Keep cool
Even if someone calls you fool
Keeps you on target
And tries to seal your fate
Loose no patience
And keep silence
With no reaction
For alter action
I am not worried
And carried
By simple accusation
That spoils good relation
Be in joyous mood
With nutritious food
That may be simple
But rich in contents for individual
Dance in the moon light with,
All the stars in sight
Dance to the smiles
Dance in the shadows my love
Dance dance dance.
You may think I'm crazy
I'd dance in the moonlight
I'll dance when I want to
Please let me dance
Dance dance dance
Dancer take my hand to your,
Hand
I need to dance
Close your blue eyes,
Hold me in your arms and,
Dance dance dance.
As I drove 'cross town today
To get my Holiday shopping under way
With my car radio tuned in
Classic Rock - - let the dance begin
On comes a Don Henley from 1985
- -'All She Wants to Do Is Dance'- -
Up comes the volume
Down comes all four car windows
Take that you hip-hoppers
Wish I had my old speakers
From my '66 Malibu
Then the lyrics struck me
Maybe I've been watchin'
Too many presidental debates
Maybe just too much CNN
Twenty-four hours a day
I have no idea if this is what
Henley was trying to say
But given the state of America's
Foreign and energy policies
Our refusal to sign
The Kyoto Protocol
Ratified by 170 other countries
To reduce greehouse gases
And our nonplused reaction to that
And the six-year Iraq War
THE IRAQ WAR - -? ? ?
It's our war
Bought and
Paid for
Its cost to date in U.S. dollars
If relevant to you $469,509,480,910
U.S. troups dead
A very relevant 3,865
I said  I'm no sure who Henley
Had on his mind
When he wrote and sang
'All she wants to do is dance'
All I could see in my minds eye
As I drove on
Was my Uncle Sam in a dress
Dancing and wantin' to party
Thats' what Don's song was saying to me
War's in a Surge mode
Demos first 100 days
Are long gone
'And all she wants to do is dance
Rebels being rebels
Since I don't know when
And all she wants to do is dance
Molotov cocktails the local drink
They make 'em up right
In the kitchen sink
Carzy people walkin' 'round with blood in their eyes
And all she wants to do
is dance, dance, dance'
We're busy getting ready
To dance through the Holidays
Macy's and Wall Mart
Already playing Siren's song
And all we want to do is dance
'Never mind the heat
Comin' off the street'
All we want to do is dance
And make romance
We want to party
How did Don know
He'd make me pull over
Park my car and listen
To his refrian
And suddenly
Not feel like dancing
**November 17,2007**
Dance, Dance  Dance
everywhere,
When I look at the sky,
I see the clouds dance
Into steps of winds
My heart dance when I watch clouds dance!
How it can make me dance?
Without any tune or beats,
Its own beats me my heart dance.
Some strange tune it sings in silence and dance!
When I see at shore of ocean waves that dance,
Some birds in sky fly and dance,
On the waves boats that to the tune of waves, dance,
My mind sing lyricless
music to which it dance!
When I walk along the beach,
The headless crown of palm trees with wide open hands dance,
Watching them dance trees start their dance!
When I on countryside, green paddy  fields dance,
Looking at them, the bird on the branch dance!
When walk along, trees with fruits dance,
And to its own rustling music,  leaves dance!
When I walk in the park,
Plants  with flowers dance!
Looking at the graceful dance flowerless  dance,
When I move on street, hope and hap dance,
Seeing at them even hopeless an hapless to dance!
Smile on faces with hope dance,
Wrinkles on the forehead of hapless dance!
When I look at people in them mind dance,
In some happiness dance,
In some sorrowfulness dance,
Some I found with desperation dance
In some their laziness dance,
In some saintliness dance,
Most of the time wickedness dance,
And in some other dreams that dance!
Success that dance with some,
Distress that in unsuccessful dance,
In some hearts mercy that dance
Together with love and kindness dance!
Some where cookedness dance,
And some where innocence dance,
In every nation either hunger dance,
Or in people's mind anger that dance,
Either corruption in corrupt mind dance,
Or those systems on the heart of people dance!
Dance, dance, dance everywhere,
It is time for my soulful dance,
If you see somewhere some other type of dance
Just sing it dance
and let no other see the pain in your heart dance
Hide it with that unfailable lips on which smile may dance
Dance, Dance, dance,
Tune your steps with eternal dance!
Dance, Dance
To the music
Dance, Dance
To the beat
Dance, Dance
To the rhythm
Stomp your feet
Dance, Dance
Even though
Your tune they don't hear
Dance, Dance
For yourself
Have no fear
Dance, Dance
If you're alive
You're doing well
Dance, Dance
And grin
So the world can tell
You know you've got
A life to live
And you're looking at the joy
This world can give
And you're dancing and laughing,
You won't be dragged down
You'd rather keep moving
Than wear a deep frown
Dance, Dance
Til it's played to the end
Dance, Dance
With a smile
My truly brave friend
Dance through life
Dance through time
Dance around the felings
You don't want to be mine
You are dancing through a world
You don't want to see
You are beating to a rhythm
That doesn't lift you free
From this headbang
You are performing
Slow down your pace
Recollect your mind
Stop all the things
You never wanted to find
Make peace with your song
Go ahead and dance away life
Find your true inside
And make peace with your strife
Dance around those feelings
Dance around the world
Dnace straight to your heart
And what you want to make yours.
Dance, dance
Thursday,28th February 2019
We always dance
and take the chance
to enjoy and satisfy
with enough of the joy
it takes place in the social gathering
and really pleasing
one's self while someone is praising
and applauding your skill
it is getting lost
in the noisy atmosphere
the loud sound and so many voices around
the real joy is never found
Your combine and dance
when inner joy wants to take a chance
your mind and heart is tuned
and you go for it to define
there is no mismatch
you are trying to catch the real pulse
that emanates from the deep inside
and without losing the time, you decide to dance
Hasmukh Mehta
Courtesy: Aboriginal Dance art
Are you angry
so you are now hermit
under the guise of a crab.
Come out and blow your pipe
to make me dance.
You know, your silence, I
can't withstand.
come on and dance, dance
with me just now.
Without you I can't even stand.
For the Marriage in Cana of Galilee
Dark-eyed,
O woman of my dreams,
Ivory sandalled,
There is none like thee among the dancers,
None with swift feet.
I have not found thee in the tents,
In the broken darkness.
I have not found thee at the well-head
Among the women with pitchers.
Thine arms are as a young sapling under the bark;
Thy face as a river with lights.
White as an almond are thy shoulders;
As new almonds stripped from the husk.
They guard thee not with eunuchs;
Not with bars of copper.
Gilt turquoise and silver are in the place of thy rest.
A brown robe, with threads of gold woven in
patterns, hast thou gathered about thee,
O Nathat-Ikanaie, 'Tree-at-the-river'.
As a rillet among the sedge are thy hands upon me;
Thy fingers a frosted stream.
Thy maidens are white like pebbles;
Their music about thee!
There is none like thee among the dancers;
None with swift feet.
The clouds are a skimming
Over the tops of the trees.
The birds are all chirping
Announcing a dawn symphony.
The world is a turning
In a heaven that’s spinning.
The traffic is moving
In a flow that’s confusing.
And heads are all nodding
In one single motion,
These words that are dancing are free!
And the clouds are a skimming
Over the tops of the trees.
Where are the dames I used to know
In Dawson in the days of yore?
Alas, it's fifty years ago,
And most, I guess, have "gone before."
The swinging scythe is swift to mow
Alike the gallant and the fair;
And even I, with gouty toe,
Am glad to fill a rocking chair.
Ah me, I fear each gaysome girl
Who in champagne I used to toast,
or cozen in the waltz's whirl,
In now alas, a wistful ghost.
Oh where is Touch The Button Nell?
Or Minnie Dale or Rosa Lee,
Or Lorna Doone or Daisy Bell?
And where is Montreal Maree?
Fair ladies of my lusty youth,
I fear that you are dead and gone:
Where's Gertie of the Diamond Tooth,
And where the Mare of Oregon?
What's come of Violet de Vere,
Claw-fingered Kate and Gumboot Sue?
They've crossed the Great Divide, I fear;
Remembered now by just a few.
A few who like myself can see
Through half a century of haze
A heap of goodness in their glee
And kindness in their wanton ways.
Alas, my sourdough days are dead,
Yet let me toss a tankard down . . .
Here's hoping that you wed and bred,
And lives of circumspection led,
Gay dance-hall girls o Dawson Town!
Though the times be rough
No need to complain
Pick yourself up
And try it again
Put a smile on your face
For there’s nothing to gain
When you can’t win the race
Dance in the rain
Dance me to your beauty with a burning violin
Dance me through the panic 'til I'm gathered safely in
Lift me like an olive branch and be my homeward dove
Dance me to the end of love
Dance me to the end of love
dance, my little puppets
dance for me
dance, my little puppets
and you shall see
dance, my little puppets
the truth you seek
dance, my little puppets
the truth i will speak
dance, my little puppets
set your soul free
dance, my little puppets
dance for me
dance, my little puppets
the truth you find
dance, my little puppets
do not hide
dance, my little puppets
dance for me
dance, my little puppets
truth is a lie, cant you see
dance, my little puppets
dance for me
dance, my little puppets
dance to see
dance, my little puppets
start to begin
dance, my little puppets
this is the end
Sometimes we do the rumba,
a foxtrot or a jive,
as we dance through our life,
each and every day.
We dance and we dance,
each day through.
Everyday to a different tune,
just to get us through.
In all our loving moments,
we waltz through life,
and in those complicated moments,
we will twist the whole night through.
For everything we do,
there is a dance to get us through.
For every day,
we dance our life away.
17 June 2007
With tender looks
you fall into one another’s arms
the warm embrace
turns into passion there
as two hearts now beat as one.
Then the passion overflows
and the dance of love starts to begin.
did you leave me here alone
to face this world of emptiness
while i wanted to have the dance of love with you
did you leave me here alone
to face this silence
i wanted to whisper the song of love, into your ears
while my hands were dancing on your skin
feeling the warmth of your inside
did you leave me here alone
to face this dark night alone
while i need the candle of hope, burning
with  warmth and light
in our all cold and dark nights.
Is the Dance Of Romance….,
Sometimes you’re not sure….,
But you must take the chance….,
For it may last forever….,
The Dance Of Romance….! ! !
Can you remember…..,
When you could not conceal….,
The passion, the emotion….,
That you would feel….? ? ?
It’s a wondrous state of mind….,
Only time can enhance…..,
Of course that’s only…..,
If you discover love is real….! ! !
The Dance Of Romance….,
The beautiful Dance Of Romance….! ! !
dance dance dance
it's time for
a little romance
chance chance chance
catch my eye
and return my glance
dance dance dance
the music puts
me in a trance
do the mambo
with me baby
come on baby
let's dance
I'm thinking hard,
But my mind should be empty.
I practice the movements,
But they come out all wrong.
When I stop,
And think,
I concentrate,
On one thing,
Dance.
And I dance.
And it's graceful,
When you think.
Be passionate
With your movements,
Listen to the song,
The beats,
the rhythyms,
And flow.
And dance.
Dance.
Smile.
Be.
I'll dance all night
I'll dance the pain away
I'll dance until the morning sun
Graces us with day
I'll dance until I'm numb
Until I don't feel anymore
I'll dance until I'm gone
And don't remember what I'm dancing for
I'll dance until you love me
I'll dance the rest of my life
I'll dance until you return
By the moon's gentle light
I'll dance to the music
Of my shattering heart
I'll dance until it doesn't hurt
As you tear me apart
-
Dance, I said to the boy in the glass
Staring back at me with a darkening mask
Dance, I begged, with love and pain
Dance, please dance, oh dance again
-
Dance with the moon in the child’s eye
Circling the middle as black as coal
Dance quickly now, its leaving soon
Light of the moon and the child’s soul
Dance with the sun in the child’s laugh
Bouncing round off sinister things
Dance quickly now, with crystal prism
Scattering wisdom, melting wings
Dance with the rain in the child’s tear
Watching the clouds attack then stop
Dance quickly now, the storm has shattered
All that mattered, with a single drop
Dance with the hope in his stuttered speech
Holding it close for a later year
Dance quickly now, before he serves
Nonsense words, in a busted mirror
-
Though the moon may spin and the sun revolve
Though love still waits and the rain still falls
Though the child may laugh he glares inside
Exhaling life with a sudden sigh
-
Im Starting to live my life,
Im dancing my crazy dance!
Im singing my favourite song like no one is listening
Im shouting to Rock songs like its how im meant to
Im moshing with no one else around
Join me
Love Life
DANCE that crazy dance,
SING that song out loud
Shout to that Rock song
Mosh like your in a pit
Live Life
Love Life
Dance unto the light,
Sway to the sounds of time,
Watch the angels bright,
As they dance within your mind.
Dance my friends and sway,
To beauty, to laughter, to love,
For this is the most perfect day,
A perfect gift from above!
Dance unto the light,
Catch the stars bright,
For perfect are the angels love,
From the One Most High above!
Dance, dance, dance
As the music plays on,
Dance, Dance, Dance,
As we listen to their song.
Dance unto the light,
Star light, star bright,
Watch as the baby is born,
On a most glorious morn?
Dance unto the light,
Catch the stars so bright,
Yes He died on a tree,
But He died for Victory!
dance unto the light,
We dance unto the night,
The song has been sung,
For He has finally won!
Holding the strings of vibes
We move to dance of life
When I look I see your essence
In space now empty
Quiet where the shout of whisper
Voice unheard in heart beats
Come here and dance
Hear the song of my mind
Dance to my beat in life
Let me hold you close to me
I feel my song is you
I want to sing you play to you
My beautiful song you be
Let me turn you
In step with my life
Move with me to music of life
Dance to pain of life
To joy of reality
The song for us to dance
Your moans of pleasure
Move me to love you
I now want to dance with you
Our finger touch our lip meet
Kissing to beats of jazz before
The blue come down on my soul
On I am coming to be true
To need what you be for me
Let just dance to our song
What the matter I’m the same as
Before your beats is my beat
Come dance with me come need me
I wait for you to know
I am for you only
Dance come dance your story with me
Move to life up and down
Dance with me I need you to dance
The dance of life in song of love
Dance with me
Beauty angel
Dance with me
In the sky...
Dance in the ocean hearts
Dance in the white minds
Dance with me, honey
Dance in the shine
Dance with me
Oh honey......
Make Light's imagine with your Dance
Dance with me
Dance with me in angel's city
Alight fire of love with your dance, honey
Dance with me, dance
Dance with me in our skins
Dance with me
Angel of beauty
Look at me....
Give your hand
Stand up...
Pull out my minds
Come to my real world
Exude your love for me
Come to this world
Dance with me
Again....
Again....
Again....
Dance with me
My heart is alive, again
When you come to my heart
Dance with me
Touch my heart
Feel my silent cry
Please Disencumber mine by my dark prison
I come with you in your paradise
Dance with me
Just for five minute, please
Dance with me
Through the rest of my years
Through the happiness
And the sorrows that bring tears
Dance with me
Consent to be my wife
And we’ll dance together
For the rest of our lives
9 May 2007
Dance with me
Take my hand  pull me close
caress my body with your
warm embrace
As the music plays
press your lips upon mine
Let the music take control
dance with  passion
As our body's become
entwine
Feel the fire of desire
that burns within
Move with the music
let it slowly guide
your hands
The  music controls
are bodies
Our passions begging
to be released
Will you dance with
me
What if tomorrow doesn’t come?
Where then shall you go?
When your life on earth is done
What happens to your soul?
You can take a gamble
And live like there’s no God
And later have to scramble
For you’ve played against the odds
Why go and do the devil’s dance
When the victory’s been won
Why leave eternity to chance
Believe in the Father’s Son
Did she ever dance the tango
On those clear and cloudless nights?
Did she ever wash the dishes?
While I was wondering what might
Time have made of our new loving
Or was it moving out of sight?
Did she ever fully love you?
Or did she merely say she did?
Did she sometimes feel too tired?
Or did she not have any kids?
Did you simply just forget me?
Why did you let my passion die?
Why did you never ever let me
Just be me so i could fly?
Can you feel it?  Can you sense it?
You know the rhythm
Sinking into your Dancing Feet?
Spiriting you up on the dance floor 'of life'
Moving your entire body, to the living beat -
Can you hear those Rocking Drums Beating?
And the Electric from Jimi's guitar?
Isn't it, simply amazing -
Middle-aged-and here we are, dancin' stars?
It's in our bodies and our souls -
From our Analytical Heads to our Movin' Feet
Its the 'Music of our Lifetime'
As we pass our days, to its beat -
Perhaps, to that of a different drummer -
But that is, what makes each of us, unique -
The Music, it spirits each of our lives along -
Dance, dance, dancing, are Our Musical Feet!
Dedicated to: Nancy Grace and Tristan McManus (Dancing With The Stars-Season 13)   October 17,2011-Nancy and Tristan dance the Rumba-tune in everyone!
I have been touched
By Loves hand
If but one moment in time
And it's feeling
Wheat fields harvest
Can not compare in value or worth
I have felt inside
It's mystical spell
And it's dance upon a thin line so fair
If but for a moment
one small stitch of time
Two souls reached the promise of the rainbow
'Twas late August eve
Beneath full moon sky
She placed her heart in my soulful hand
To this very day
Somewhere deep within
The magic has home to which it resides
That one dreamers dance
We did share long ago
Now holds my heart never letting go
As the sun sinks upon the horizon,
As the dark night creeps in,
The dead dance.
On the streets they roam,
Silent,
Alone.
Everybody dances,
The saints and the sinners,
Everybody dances,
To the sound of the rhythm,
Everybody dances,
The dance of the dead.
The dance of the dead goes on,
And on,
Never stops,
Never slows,
Time does not matter to the dead.
Everybody dances,
The poor and the rich,
Everybody dances,
To the cries to the babies,
Everybody dances,
The dance of the dead.
As your time goes up,
The dead dance into your room,
Filled with silent movements,
They twirl with grace,
And style
And ease.
They reach out their hands,
And you take it,
And join the dance of the dead.
Everybody dance,
The young and the old,
Everybody dance,
The music is playing,
Everybody dance,
To the dance of the dead.
C’mon,
Everybody dance,
Soldiers and lovers,
Oh,
Everybody dance,
To sound they cry,
So,
Everybody dance,
To the dance of the dead,
The dance of the dead.
Oh,
Everybody dances,
Because the dance never stops.
6/05/06
Like an infant in the cradle
I rocked in his arms and penned this fable
The sweet lucid lyrics of the song
Made me forget right and wrong
He looked at me as if a rainbow in the sky
My heart skipped a beat and I felt so shy
My silky black hair acted as a veil
But his one touch and I let myself sail
He held me close and his lips touched mine
As if a thirsty soul tasted french wine
My fingers then reached his curly hair
Ang got entwined without care
I envisioned our future in those moments so pure
He is my soulmate my heart said for sure
The time should stand still was my wish
I know I was acting childish
One last embrace and that will be all
For I have to rush back before my dad's call
Mesmerized by the thought of that beautiful evening
I am writing this while his intoxicatins smell still lingering..
1. My Criterion For Success
You say you find merit in a theory that is based
on a meaningless universe, created by chaos -
quite by chance, inadvertently spawning life,
then intelligence; now that life is self-aware and
clever enough to study itself and realise it is
caught in a meaninglessness in a random universe
that will be destroyed one day, all life will become
extinct - leaving no trace of its passing in a material
universe – pray tell, what merit did you find? It
sounds like living hell… Is this theory the reason
for your defeatist attitude, calling the world bad,
society at large is going to pieces and life is not
worthwhile – and where’s the merit in that?
Why is it meritorious to think life horrible, to be
destroyed one day, having flickered just for a
short while in eternity? Is that why you wear
negativity like a black mantle around you? You
won’t take any chances, you say, you fear
taking risks, you made your philosophical bed
long ago – and now mean to sleep on it –
come what may – where’s the merit in that?
I prefer to know that all we think is based on
assumptions that one day will be overthrown,
therefore I choose the best theories and make
hope my own, I trust in tomorrow and expect
non-physical life after death, and should it not
happen, can’t cause me sorrow; I will have
had the happiest life that could be – and
that is my criterion for success!
2. I Will Try To
I did not expect to see a second-hand book-
shop in the latest new centre of shops but
suddenly – what should I see;
“The Atlantis Blueprint” A book written by
Rand Flem-Ath and Colin Wilson – the very
same subject I had settled upon as one for
my December Holiday – it gives me goose-
bumps – did the gods listen to my request –
they must have, to answer so literally.
I shall rewrite or summarise in long-hand all
holiday-long; I’m overjoyed, singing a song;
I’m so happy, you forgave me for being
obnoxious all week-end; I can dream my own
dreams, I have been given a second chance
to try and improve, and I will try to!
3. Karl Maria von Weber – Invitation to the Dance
And I couldn’t withstand it, the invitation to the
dance, I had to join in, dancing in my baggy pants
and I became the different characters, called
forth by every change of phrase, the pretty ladies
with wide dresses, the men with scabbards dancing
in a row, the flowers twirling slowly, the fairies
dancing in a circle, it was an operetta, I realised,
presented by young children - all dressed up and
dancing with their props, all was twirling, whirling,
then the short, strong movements of the “men”
advancing in aggression, the ladies with their elegant
strides, all turning circles, gliding round the stage –
then the stage became the kitchen, and I was back
again, happier than before, sure life must hold
some deeper meaning which I would find someday…
4. To A Special Friend
Thank you for listening
to me when the vastness
of space is spinning
such a fastness –
spinning in my head;
when I’m balanced
on a tightrope between
grey realities and colourful
eternities, living the
bubbles of fantasy;
your gaze steadies
my tread, helps me
to slow down, to stop
the kaleidoscope moving
in my Head,
to pull out a picture and
describe the view to you,
afford me a chance to see
the sights I always miss in
my fast flight between images…
5. A God On Earth…
I have always looked up to my big brother
to me he has always been a god on earth,
not grown-up, yet capable of doing everything
long before I could master it - he was
Different from everybody else – when he
consented to play with us, the younger ones,
the sun came out, the world felt safe, all
was right, and it happened so few times
My brother is more talented than others
and I’m scared of him, he knows my weak
points, my juvenile sins, he sees me within
a cloud of childhood sorrows and guilt
And I still see him as a god on earth...
our thoughts are the blooms
and the wind our admirers
in so many ways it blows
and each time it does
the petals put on a different dance
into the world we dance
with friends
for each friend a different attire
i put on to show my appreciation
for every friend a different step
in my dance to show my love
As in the desert,
A sand blows,
It's eastward wings carrying it's wonderous jewels
A lady, dancing no less, her face that of a thousand queens,
Drawing all those about into her deep cavern of mystery,
Her fiery presence both a blessing and a curse,
For there before you now stands the dancer of life.
No lines shall be cut, No rules shall be decided
A wind shall shape the gentle curves,
And water shall give it's shine
As the fire within glows brightly, herself a lady of time
Swords flash in the setting sun,
And veils twirl around her,
A commotion caused over her openess, her trueness
A woman, a woman, not to be free
Not to be opened, not to be seen
No, No, this is not how to be!
She shall not hidden, nor given as a bride
But open her soul, and hold out her pride
There is a dance, a dance to be free
I speak of this dance,
Because between you and me,
It's the dance of the ancients, and the dance of the new
Of the old and the young,
It's the dance of many a tongue,
For this is my dance, my chance to be free
And open and happy, and truely be me
Long ago a prophet appeared,
A Piute Medicine Chief known as Wovoka.
He spoke to the Lakota people and others,
Of how to banish the white man.
They knew not they faced such great numbers.
This Messiah taught the Ghost Dance,
And promised come next spring,
New soil would smother all white men,
Sweet grass would cover the land,
Wild horses & buffalo would return,
All who danced the Ghost Dance,
Would be taken up into the air,
Suspended while new earth was laid down.
Kicking Bear assured Sitting Bull that,
If their people wore Ghost Dance shirts,
White mans bullets could not strike them so,
They painted their shirts with sacred symbols.
Indian agents grew nervous, moved quickly,
Telegraphing Washington for more troops.
Soldiers surrounded Sitting Bulls camp,
A fight ensued and many were killed.
Ghost Dance was thwarted,
before magic could fulfill...
'The Second Coming” prophecy belonged to the white man,
For they worshiped 'A Most Jealous god”
autumn dance
a leaf drops,   spirals,
sommersaults on ground
My April dance dance
spring is coming young again
- Hope in every chance
I don't remember a witch
...but there was a black cat,
who sat down beside me
and told me that -
'This cat has strong legs, and the love of thrills'
'I like to climb things - including hills'
The story smelled fishy, not what it seemed
Truth better than fiction, who would have dreamed?
'A lovely wee cat, a lovely wee kitty
so kind and so playful, but most of all pretty'
Have you ever seen a cat that could dance?
to writhe and wrigge, wiggle and prance?
What a sight to see, for you or for me
my eyes became locked and wouldn't come free.
But that was the plan, from start until end
to hook me with dance to make me a friend.
This cat was not mean, this cat was not cruel
this cat was amazing, pretty and kewl!
Now the plan has succeded,
and we are together.
The pup and the kitty,
forever and ever.
326
I cannot dance upon my Toes—
No Man instructed me—
But oftentimes, among my mind,
A Glee possesseth me,
That had I Ballet knowledge—
Would put itself abroad
In Pirouette to blanch a Troupe—
Or lay a Prima, mad,
And though I had no Gown of Gauze—
No Ringlet, to my Hair,
Nor hopped to Audiences—like Birds,
One Claw upon the Air,
Nor tossed my shape in Eider Balls,
Nor rolled on wheels of snow
Till I was out of sight, in sound,
The House encore me so—
Nor any know I know the Art
I mention—easy—Here—
Nor any Placard boast me—
It's full as Opera—
Life is a dance which leads each one of us to the ultimate truth-Death. Here I am traveling towards my coffin, not walking but dancing. Without music, without obliged to any defined rhythm, I am inching towards it, towards my coffin. Throughout my dancing once again I am watching everything...
I am dancing without music
Dancing without definite steps
Without a rhythm and melody
Dancing towards the coffin
Daylight creeping away streets
Through the deserted ferries
Windless deserts and silence
I am dancing without music
Through colorless dreams
Through unspoken whispers
Through cemeteries
I am dancing without music
I am dancing without music
Dancing without definite steps
without a rhythm and melody
Dancing towards the coffin
Without wearing glass shoes
Without a stockings
Without feeling bleeding feet
I am dancing without music
Through burned gardens
Through spring never visited valleys
Through silence filled emptiness
I am dancing without music
I am dancing without music
Dancing without definite steps
Without a rhythm and melody
Dancing towards the coffin
I’d dance in the morning
When the world has begun
I’d dance in the moonlight
For the glory of His Son
I’d dance for Heaven, dearly on earth
Sweet of frankincense, and gifts, from birth
I’d dance for Father, Son, and even the Holy Ghost
I would love to dance for he who loves me most
I dance for the God's fishermen
Of the Gospel clan and Redemption's plan
As I’m sure, they’d all come with along me
We'd dance, together, on humanity's great sea
I’d dance on Sabbath, the Religionist to distain
I’d cure all the wounded, blind, and also the lame
I tell you: I dance in the Cross, for Victory so bright
For what's central to beauty and void envy's flight
If given a chance~ I’d even dance on the devil’s grave
For oh, I do love dancing for my Lord God and KING
I'm awesomely restored; how can I not but dance and sing
ill dance 4 luv
ill dance 4 pain
i dance hopeing theres still luv 2 gain
ill dance for them
ill dance for me
ill dance just to let the emotion see
ill dance in rain
ill dance in shine
ill dance hopeing youll be mine
ill dance
then ask dance with me?
dont go just say
we'll dance on this day
then you'll leave
ill danc and still beilive
ill dance 4 luv
ill dance 4 pain
ill dance hopeing theres still love 2 gain
How does it feel to be?
On the floor with all eyes on you?
To move so swiftly and gracefully
To be loved
What is it like to dance?
What is it like to feel your partner?
And when do you start
Before the song ends and all you’ve
Hoped for comes to a halt
And time seems to stand still
Leaving you lost
Standing alone with your partner still in motion
How does it feel to be in love?
How does it feel to cry of a broken heart?
How does it feel to know stop from start?
What is it like to dance?
I want to know
I want to feel
I want to be able to cry
I want to love
I want to move
I want to sing like you
I want to breathe
Can you give me one last chance?
Can you teach me?
Can I learn?
That is what I want
That is what I need
Help me to Dance
To live life as it is unfolding
under my nose
Right now
To accept myself as I really am
in the core of my being
Right now
To let go of the need to change the way I am
and love myself warts and all
Right now
To move to the rhythms of my true self
and allow myself to feel the tenderness within me
Right now
Life - I offer you my hand
Let's dance...
This poem is inspired by The Dance by Oriah Mountain Dreamer.
gotta big johnson
gotta big johnson
here in my pants
here in my pants
come on and dance
come on and dance
wid my big johnson
wid my big johnson
Life is every where
Life
Life is a challenge
Life is a gift
Life is a chance
Life is a tragedy
Life is lonely
Life is pain
Life is full of frustration
Life is a mystery
Life is love
Life is made of hurt
Life is not a bed of roses
Life is a dance for you to dance
Life is every state of mind
What is life?
Life is a puzzle, solve it
Life is full of unexpected
Life is unexplainable
Life.
Maria Luisa Taylor...
2....2011
...Deep in the after glow...
We swayed in the mid-night mist...
Totally enamoured in our Rainbow of love...
...Frozen in time is your kiss...
Four white roses all abloom
'Neath our summer shelter of romance...
Embrace we-'Our Together' Forever attitudes
...At home in one anothers arms...
...In the sands of Alkai Point, we dance...
Any boy can dance
even for girls harbouring
ill jested kabuki livery
men never opt pretty
quintessent revelry
spending time under vague
worldly xanadic yearning zeugma.
But in the Wine-presses the human grapes sing not nor dance:
They howl and writhe in shoals of torment, in fierce flames consuming,
In chains of iron and in dungeons circled with ceaseless fires,
In pits and dens and shades of death, in shapes of torment and woe:
The plates and screws and racks and saws and cords and fires and cisterns
The cruel joys of Luvah's Daughters, lacerating with knives
And whips their victims, and the deadly sport of Luvah's Sons.
They dance around the dying and they drink the howl and groan,
They catch the shrieks in cups of gold, they hand them to one another:
These are the sports of love, and these the sweet delights of amorous play,
Tears of the grape, the death sweat of the cluster, the last sigh
Of the mild youth who listens to the luring songs of Luvah.
HER EYES WERE VACANT,
HER MIND BARREN, HER
FRUSTRATIONS CLOUTHED
IN BLOOD, AND HER BODY,
THROWN TO THE CURVE.
HER HANDS TREMBLE,
HER WORDS SPIT,
HER KNEES BREAK ,
AND THE DRUGS  SETTLE
IN HER BLUE  VEINS.
HER EYES  FIND A SMILE,
HER HEART FINDS  LOVE,
HER HANDS BECOME STRONG,
AND THE MOMENT OF UNCERTAINY
IS OVER, NOW ITS TIME FOR
MUSIC AND DANCE.
The phone rang after 2: 00 am.
Taking the steps in pairs
my legs faltered at his door -
paralyzed by denial.
Forcing myself inside,
I saw father's lifeless frame,
wired to synthetic everything -
a cold white line
still against the black.
My aching soul
railed at that liar screen,
knowing his true lifeline
danced with passion  -
precision cutting with his lathe,
strumming passing chords
on his Gibson Les Paul.
That morning I knocked a ball
through a neighbor’s glass
I learned what honor meant.
With dad's steady hand
on my  shoulder,
I stammered  apologies
and learned to glaze a window.
We'd play catch after supper.
or down franks and pop
at Briggs where the Tigers played.
Detroit is flying high this year:
God, how I wish
I could give the old man a call.
September,  2006
The shell of objects inwardly consumed
Will stand, till some convulsive wind awakes;
Such sense hath Fire to waste the heart of things,
Nature, such love to hold the form she makes.
Thus, wasted joys will show their early bloom,
Yet crumble at the breath of a caress;
The golden fruitage hides the scathèd bough,
Snatch it, thou scatterest wide its emptiness.
For pleasure bidden, I went forth last night
To where, thick hung, the festal torches gleamed;
Here were the flowers, the music, as of old,
Almost the very olden time it seemed.
For one with cheek unfaded, (though he brings
My buried brothers to me, in his look,)
Said, `Will you dance? ' At the accustomed words
I gave my hand, the old position took.
Sound, gladsome measure! at whose bidding once
I felt the flush of pleasure to my brow,
While my soul shook the burthen of the flesh,
And in its young pride said, `Lie lightly thou! '
Then, like a gallant swimmer, flinging high
My breast against the golden waves of sound,
I rode the madd'ning tumult of the dance,
Mocking fatigue, that never could be found.
Chide not,- it was not vanity, nor sense,
(The brutish scorn such vaporous delight,)
But Nature, cadencing her joy of strength
To the harmonious limits of her right.
She gave her impulse to the dancing Hours,
To winds that sweep, to stars that noiseless turn;
She marked the measure rapid hearts must keep
Devised each pace that glancing feet should learn.
And sure, that prodigal o'erflow of life,
Unvow'd as yet to family or state,
Sweet sounds, white garments, flowery coronals
Make holy, in the pageant of our fate.
Sound, measure! but to stir my heart no more-
For, as I moved to join the dizzy race,
My youth fell from me; all its blooms were gone,
And others showed them, smiling, in my face.
Faintly I met the shock of circling forms
Linked each to other, Fashion's galley-slaves,
Dream-wondering, like an unaccustomed ghost
That starts, surprised, to stumble over graves.
For graves were 'neath my feet, whose placid masks
Smiled out upon my folly mournfully,
While all the host of the departed said,
`Tread lightly- thou art ashes, even as we.'
Men with picked voices chant the names
of cities in a huge gallery: promises
that pull through descending stairways
to a deep rumbling.
The rubbing feet
of those coming to be carried quicken a
grey pavement into soft light that rocks
to and fro, under the domed ceiling,
across and across from pale
earthcolored walls of bare limestone.
Covertly the hands of a great clock
go round and round! Were they to
move quickly and at once the whole
secret would be out and the shuffling
of all ants be done forever.
A leaning pyramid of sunlight, narrowing
out at a high window, moves by the clock:
disaccordant hands straining out from
a center: inevitable postures infinitely
repeated--
two--twofour--twoeight!
Porters in red hats run on narrow platforms.
This way ma'am!
--important not to take
the wrong train!
Lights from the concrete
ceiling hang crooked but--
Poised horizontal
on glittering parallels the dingy cylinders
packed with a warm glow--inviting entry--
pull against the hour. But brakes can
hold a fixed posture till--
The whistle!
Not twoeight. Not twofour. Two!
Gliding windows. Colored cooks sweating
in a small kitchen. Taillights--
In time: twofour!
In time: twoeight!
--rivers are tunneled: trestles
cross oozy swampland: wheels repeating
the same gesture remain relatively
stationary: rails forever parallel
return on themselves infinitely.
The dance is sure.
Poets Dance in the heart of rhythms
Discussion spoken in the pen
Energy being tampered with in the music
Limitations rarely occur in audio-silence
Artist writes from the heart of rhythms
The Poets are dancing
Flaming hot ink drips from the pen
The paper it's a sacrificial victim
It just seems to lay still
there's no escape when the Poets Dance
Rhythmic heartbeats offset the confrontation
of clumsy feet
To tap dance on paper is a joy one must experience
to fully appreciate
It’s not for the faint-hearted
THE INDIFFERENT.
COME to the dance with me, come with me, fair one!
Dances a feast-day like this may well crown.
If thou my sweetheart art not, thou canst be so,
But if thou wilt not, we still will dance on.
Come to the dance with me, come with me, fair one!
Dances a feast-day like this may well crown.
THE TENDER.
Loved one, without thee, what then would all feast be?
Sweet one, without thee, what then were the dance?
If thou my sweetheart wert not, I would dance not.
If thou art still so, all life is one feast.
Loved one, without thee, what then would all feasts be?
Sweet one, without thee, what then were the dance?
THE INDIFFERENT.
Let them but love, then, and leave us the dancing!
Languishing love cannot bear the glad dance.
Let us whirl round in the waltz's gay measure,
And let them steal to the dim-lighted wood.
Let them but love, then, and leave us the dancing!
Languishing love cannot bear the glad dance.
THE TENDER.
Let them whirl round, then, and leave us to wander!
Wand'ring to love is a heavenly dance.
Cupid, the near one, o'erhears their deriding,
Vengeance takes suddenly, vengeance takes soon.
Let them whirl round, then, and leave us to wander!
Wand'ring to love is a heavenly dance.
Looked forward to the Saturday Night dance
We did, all dressed up to 'shine',
With winkle picker shoes, and layers of net
In our petticoats.  We felt divine.
The 'hair do' backcombed to perfection,
The lipstick a bright Roman Pink,
The 10 denier stockings, were totally great,
And, that handsome Teddy Boy's wink!
Rock and roll, The Twist, The Locomotion,
Were the favourites of the day,
And then there was the 'smoochy' waltz,
When cheek to cheek, we could 'swoon' away.
You sat, until some bold young fella,
Would have the courage to ask you up,
To do 'The Jive' or the 'Cha Cha Cha',
Or to fetch you some wine to sup.
Some lads were delightful to dance with,
While others had two left feet,
But one would have to suffer them gladly,
If you wanted to, leave your seat.
Politeness would rule the evening,
And courtesy was really great,
When someone would give you a lift back home,
If the dance, went on too late.
Gone are those days of feeling feminine,
With the boys, debonair and bold,
But, Oh, it was so romantic then,
When you had a 'strong' hand to hold.
There was fun with the band playing loudly.
When being female, we dressed to 'kill',
And when men were Gents and treated us girls,
With, respect.  Now that was definitely 'BRILL'!
©   Ernestine Northover
This poem was written by a terminally
ill young girl in a New York Hospital.
It was sent by a doctor -
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
Have you ever watched kids
On a merry-go-round?
Or listened to the rain
Slapping on the ground?
Ever followed a butterfly's erratic
flight? Or gazed at the sun into
the fading night?
You better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Do you run through each day
On the fly?
When you ask How are you?
Do you hear the reply?
When the day is done
Do you lie in your bed
With the next hundred chores
Running through your head?
You'd better slow down
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Ever told your child,
We'll do it tomorrow?
And in your haste,
Not see his sorrow?
Ever lost touch,
Let a good friendship die
Cause you never had time
To call and say hi
You'd better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
When you run so fast to get somewhere
You miss half the fun of getting there.
When you worry and hurry through your
day, It is like an unopened
gift....
Thrown away.
Life is not a race.
Do take it slower
Hear the music
Before the song is over.
Have you ever watched kids
On a merry-go-round?
Or listened to the rain
slapping on the ground?
Ever followed a butterfly's erratic flight?
Or gazed at the sun into the fading night?
You better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Do you run through each day
On the fly?
When you ask How are you?
Do you hear the reply?
When the day is done
Do you lie in your bed
With the next hundred chores
Running through your head?
You'd better slow down
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
Ever told your child,
We'll
do it tomorrow?
And in your haste,
Not see his sorrow?
Ever lost touch,
Let a good friendship die
Cause you never had time
To call and say, 'Hi'
You'd better slow down.
Don't dance so fast.
Time is short.
The music won't last.
When you run so fast to get somewhere
You miss half the fun of getting there.
When you worry and hurry through your day,
It is like an unopened gift....
Thrown away.
Life is not a race.
Do take it slower
Hear the
music
Before the song is over.
Pillowy powder
Falls from the sky,
I gaze in wonder,
As the white flakes fly.
Dancing and swirling,
Through the air,
Like an aerial ballerina,
Without a care.
It lands on the leaves,
On the trees and the grass,
It is silently pretty,
But I know it won’t last.
But just for the moment,
I am taken away,
By the still quiet beauty,
That is here for the day.
12/25/04
Today was perfect...
allegro
Bach's oboe
ribbons dancing
oranges and lemons
vivace
feet flying
faces bubbling
eager arms outstretched
adagio
soft circle
candle dancing
supple bodies stretching
presto
in the air
donkey kicks
higher and higher
God I love doing this...
Dance little baby, dance up high,
Never mind baby, mother is by;
Crow and caper, caper and crow,
There little baby, there you go;
Up to the ceiling, down to the ground,
Backwards and forwards, round and round;
Dance little baby, and mother shall sing,
With the merry coral, ding, ding, ding.
Take a dance with me
Up the old banana tree
- Where we used to be!
- from, The Crew -
(There was a man from Banana Tree,
That wanted the whole world to see
His newest dance,
- So he took the chance:
'Come dance the Banana with me')
TO Jenny came a gentle youth
From inland leazes lone;
His love was fresh as apple-blooth
By Parrett, Yeo, or Tone.
And duly he entreated her
To be his tender minister,
And call him aye her own.
Fair Jenny's life had hardly been
A life of modesty;
At Casterbridge experience keen
Of many loves had she
From scarcely sixteen years above:
Among them sundry troopers of
The King's-Own Cavalry.
But each with charger, sword, and gun,
Had bluffed the Biscay wave;
And Jenny prized her gentle one
For all the love he gave.
She vowed to be, if they were wed,
His honest wife in heart and head
From bride-ale hour to grave.
Wedded they were. Her husband's trust
In Jenny knew no bound,
And Jenny kept her pure and just,
Till even malice found
No sin or sign of ill to be
In one who walked so decently
The duteous helpmate's round.
Two sons were born, and bloomed to men,
And roamed, and were as not:
Alone was Jenny left again
As ere her mind had sought
A solace in domestic joys,
And ere the vanished pair of boys
Were sent to sun her cot.
She numbered near on sixty years,
And passed as elderly,
When, in the street, with flush of fears,
On day discovered she,
From shine of swords and thump of drum,
Her early loves from war had come,
The King's Own Cavalry.
She turned aside, and bowed her head
Anigh Saint Peter's door;
"Alas for chastened thoughts!" she said;
"I'm faded now, and hoar,
And yet those notes--they thrill me through,
And those gay forms move me anew
As in the years of yore!"...
--'Twas Christmas, and the Phoenix Inn
Was lit with tapers tall,
For thirty of the trooper men
Had vowed to give a ball
As "Theirs" had done (fame handed down)
When lying in the self-same town
Ere Buonaparté's fall.
That night the throbbing "Soldier's Joy,"
The measured tread and sway
Of "Fancy-Lad" and "Maiden Coy,"
Reached Jenny as she lay
Beside her spouse; till springtide blood
Seemed scouring through her like a flood
That whisked the years away.
She rose, and rayed, and decked her head
To hide her ringlets thin;
Upon her cap two bows of red
She fixed with hasty pin;
Unheard descending to the street,
She trod the flags with tune-led feet,
And stood before the Inn.
Save for the dancers', not a sound
Disturbed the icy air;
No watchman on his midnight round
Or traveller was there;
But over All-Saints', high and bright,
Pulsed to the music Sirius white,
The Wain by Bullstake Square.
She knocked, but found her further stride
Checked by a sergeant tall:
"Gay Granny, whence come you?" he cried;
"This is a private ball."
--"No one has more right here than me!
Ere you were born, man," answered she,
"I knew the regiment all!"
"Take not the lady's visit ill!"
Upspoke the steward free;
"We lack sufficient partners still,
So, prithee let her be!"
They seized and whirled her 'mid the maze,
And Jenny felt as in the days
Of her immodesty.
Hour chased each hour, and night advanced;
She sped as shod with wings;
Each time and every time she danced--
Reels, jigs, poussettes, and flings:
They cheered her as she soared and swooped
(She'd learnt ere art in dancing drooped
From hops to slothful swings).
The favorite Quick-step "Speed the Plough"--
(Cross hands, cast off, and wheel)--
"The Triumph," "Sylph," "The Row-dow dow,"
Famed "Major Malley's Reel,"
"The Duke of York's," "The Fairy Dance,"
"The Bridge of Lodi" (brought from France),
She beat out, toe and heel.
The "Fall of Paris" clanged its close,
And Peter's chime told four,
When Jenny, bosom-beating, rose
To seek her silent door.
They tiptoed in escorting her,
Lest stroke of heel or chink of spur
Should break her goodman's snore.
The fire that late had burnt fell slack
When lone at last stood she;
Her nine-and-fifty years came back;
She sank upon her knee
Beside the durn, and like a dart
A something arrowed through her heart
In shoots of agony.
Their footsteps died as she leant there,
Lit by the morning star
Hanging above the moorland, where
The aged elm-rows are;
And, as o'ernight, from Pummery Ridge
To Maembury Ring and Standfast Bridge
No life stirred, near or far.
Though inner mischief worked amain,
She reached her husband's side;
Where, toil-weary, as he had lain
Beneath the patchwork pied
When yestereve she'd forthward crept,
And as unwitting, still he slept
Who did in her confide.
A tear sprang as she turned and viewed
His features free from guile;
She kissed him long, as when, just wooed.
She chose his domicile.
Death menaced now; yet less for life
She wished than that she were the wife
That she had been erstwhile.
Time wore to six. Her husband rose
And struck the steel and stone;
He glanced at Jenny, whose repose
Seemed deeper than his own.
With dumb dismay, on closer sight,
He gathered sense that in the night,
Or morn, her soul had flown.
When told that some too mighty strain
For one so many-yeared
Had burst her bosom's master-vein,
His doubts remained unstirred.
His Jenny had not left his side
Betwixt the eve and morning-tide:
--The King's said not a word.
Well! times are not as times were then,
Nor fair ones half so free;
And truly they were martial men,
The King's-Own Cavalry.
And when they went from Casterbridge
And vanished over Mellstock Ridge,
'Twas saddest morn to see.
THE warder looks down at the mid hour of night,
On the tombs that lie scatter'd below:
The moon fills the place with her silvery light,
And the churchyard like day seems to glow.
When see! first one grave, then another opes wide,
And women and men stepping forth are descried,
In cerements snow-white and trailing.
In haste for the sport soon their ankles they twitch,
And whirl round in dances so gay;
The young and the old, and the poor, and the rich,
But the cerements stand in their way;
And as modesty cannot avail them aught here,
They shake themselves all, and the shrouds soon appear
Scatter'd over the tombs in confusion.
Now waggles the leg, and now wriggles the thigh,
As the troop with strange gestures advance,
And a rattle and clatter anon rises high,
As of one beating time to the dance.
The sight to the warder seems wondrously queer,
When the villainous Tempter speaks thus in his ear:
"Seize one of the shrouds that lie yonder!"
Quick as thought it was done! and for safety he fled
Behind the church-door with all speed;
The moon still continues her clear light to shed
On the dance that they fearfully lead.
But the dancers at length disappear one by one,
And their shrouds, ere they vanish, they carefully don,
And under the turf all is quiet.
But one of them stumbles and shuffles there still,
And gropes at the graves in despair;
Yet 'tis by no comrade he's treated so ill
The shroud he soon scents in the air.
So he rattles the door--for the warder 'tis well
That 'tis bless'd, and so able the foe to repel,
All cover'd with crosses in metal.
The shroud he must have, and no rest will allow,
There remains for reflection no time;
On the ornaments Gothic the wight seizes now,
And from point on to point hastes to climb.
Alas for the warder! his doom is decreed!
Like a long-legged spider, with ne'er-changing speed,
Advances the dreaded pursuer.
The warder he quakes, and the warder turns pale,
The shroud to restore fain had sought;
When the end,--now can nothing to save him avail,--
In a tooth formed of iron is caught.
With vanishing lustre the moon's race is run,
When the bell thunders loudly a powerful One,
And the skeleton fails, crush'd to atoms.
See how, like lightest waves at play, the airy dancers fleet;
And scarcely feels the floor the wings of those harmonious feet.
Ob, are they flying shadows from their native forms set free?
Or phantoms in the fairy ring that summer moonbeams see?
As, by the gentle zephyr blown, some light mist flees in air,
As skiffs that skim adown the tide, when silver waves are fair,
So sports the docile footstep to the heave of that sweet measure,
As music wafts the form aloft at its melodious pleasure,
Now breaking through the woven chain of the entangled dance,
From where the ranks the thickest press, a bolder pair advance,
The path they leave behind them lost--wide open the path beyond,
The way unfolds or closes up as by a magic wand.
See now, they vanish from the gaze in wild confusion blended;
All, in sweet chaos whirled again, that gentle world is ended!
No!--disentangled glides the knot, the gay disorder ranges--
The only system ruling here, a grace that ever changes.
For ay destroyed--for ay renewed, whirls on that fair creation;
And yet one peaceful law can still pervade in each mutation.
And what can to the reeling maze breathe harmony and vigor,
And give an order and repose to every gliding figure?
That each a ruler to himself doth but himself obey,
Yet through the hurrying course still keeps his own appointed way.
What, would'st thou know?  It is in truth the mighty power of tune,
A power that every step obeys, as tides obey the moon;
That threadeth with a golden clue the intricate employment,
Curbs bounding strength to tranquil grace, and tames the wild enjoyment.
And comes the world's wide harmony in vain upon thine ears?
The stream of music borne aloft from yonder choral spheres?
And feel'st thou not the measure which eternal Nature keeps?
The whirling dance forever held in yonder azure deeps?
The suns that wheel in varying maze?--That music thou discernest?
No! Thou canst honor that in sport which thou forgettest in earnest.
Take the name of the swain, a forlorn witless elf
Who was chang'd to a flow'r for admiring himself.
A part deem'd essential in each lady's dress
With what maidens cry when they wish to say yes.
A lullabye carriage, soft, cozy and light
With the name of the Poet who sang on the night.
The queen of Cairo, all lovely and winning
Whose blandishments ever kept Antony grinning.
The flow'r whose odors unremittingly please:
With the glory of forests, the king of the trees.
To the prince of the fairies, a jealous old knave,
Put the name of the tree that undid Mother Eve.
To finish the whole, add that period of day
When the linnet and thrush to repose hie away.
The initials of these, if adjusted with care.
Will show you the fairest where thousands are fair.
The sweet, pretty graces still hover about her
And Cupid would die with vexation without her.
When she swims in the dance or wherever she goes
She's crowded by witlings, plain-fellows, and beaux
Who throng at her elbow and tread on her toes.
If a pin or a hankerchief happen to fall
To seize on the prise fills with uproar the ball;
Such pulling and hawling & shoving & pushing
As rivals the racket of 'key and the cushion; '
And happy- thrice happy! too happy! the swain
Who can replace the pin or bandana again.
Tho the fellows surround & so humbly adore her
The girls on the contrary cannot endure her;
Her beauty their beauty forever disgraces
And her sweeter face still eclipses their faces-
For no lov'ly girl can a lov'ly girl bear
And fair ones are ever at war with the fair.
(Nancy Crooke)
Andre fell in love with her beauty,
her royal elegant appearance.
She carried herself proud, purring
like a kitten, never boisterous or loud.
Stroking her perfect body, touching
her curves oh so gently.
He felt like the king of the ball, stood
handsome and so very tall.
Together they made their royal entrance,
totally captivating the audience.
Proud as can be,
they danced- for all to see.
Screams of elation filled the crowd,
while this royal couple took their bows.
A dance performed with perfection,
no need for criticism or direction.
An applaud broke out, a standing ovation.
Smiles laughter an awesome celebration.
The competition ended in glory,
now on with that fairy tale story.
In Breughel's great picture, The Kermess,
the dancers go round, they go round and
around, the squeal and the blare and the
tweedle of bagpipes, a bugle and fiddles
tipping their bellies, (round as the thick-
sided glasses whose wash they impound)
their hips and their bellies off balance
to turn them. Kicking and rolling about
the Fair Grounds, swinging their butts, those
shanks must be sound to bear up under such
rollicking measures, prance as they dance
in Breughel's great picture, The Kermess
What do you think I saw to-day when I arose at dawn?
Blue Wrens and Yellow-tails dancing on the lawn!
Bobbing here, and bowing there, gossiping away,
And how I wished that you were there to see the merry play!
But you were snug abed, my boy, blankets to your chin,
Nor dreamed of dancing birds without or sunbeams dancing in.
Grey Thrush, he piped the tune for them. I peeped out through the glass
Between the window curtains, and I saw them on the grass -
Merry little fairy folk, dancing up and down,
Blue bonnet, yellow skirt, cloaks of grey and brown,
Underneath the wattle-tree, silver in the dawn,
Blue Wrens and Yellow-tails dancing on the lawn.
Decades faded
Remembering
Old school
Mates,
With whom
I had spent
So much time
But who never
Really knew me
The old neighborhoods,
That taught me
To sail away on
Skate boards
While holding on
To billowing
White sheets
As
Those summer storms
Approached
And
How to fly away
On
The highest kite
Or
To design
Private worlds
Reading
Robinson Crusoe
A favorite aunt,
Much beloved
Who sometimes
Wore her sunglasses
In the dark
A generous grandmother
Who always
Saw my needs
Because she
Herself
Had walked
Eons ago in
Shoes not unlike
My own
My lab partners
Always the perfect
Second calls
And
Wonderful mentors,
Like dear old Dr. Bach
Whose grace irrigated
Hopes …his were
So sadly
Left over
In the Fall of Saigon
But
He never fail-ed
In his care, and
Continually,
Coached me
To reach
A bit higher
Bringing
Belief in self
A wonderful
Salesman
Was he
Selling
Goals beyond
The plates
Filled with day
Old scraps
Of lifetimes
Presented
By
Worldly lamenters
Who constantly
Whispered
In our ear
Faded dirty
Hand–me-downs
Tagged with
Ragged beliefs
That it was ok to
Look the other way
Waging
Ideas of old
Those were never
Good
For me
Let alone
Any small soul
I wonder,
What
Happened
To each of them
And, too
Are they
Aware
Of how they
Shaped the
Hills I now
Dance upon?
(Mountaintop Cottage, Tennessee
August 1,2006)
You have no dance item to do
Barring this lungi dance,
Taking full air,
The lungi dance is
But a loafer's dance
And the lungi cannot come to anyone's rescue
During the chilly winter.
The lungi dance, the lungi dance
The loafer saying and whistling it
And dancing in his go as you like style,
Dancing and whistling,
The lungi no dress is it,
But the loafer's dance.
A chant to which it is intended a group of children shall dance and improvise pantomime led by their dancing-teacher.
A master deep-eyed
Ere his manhood was ripe,
He sang like a thrush,
He could play any pipe.
So dull in the school
That he scarcely could spell,
He read but a bit,
And he figured not well.
A bare-footed fool,
Shod only with grace;
Long hair streaming down
Round a wind-hardened face;
He smiled like a girl,
Or like clear winter skies,
A virginal light
Making stars of his eyes.
In swiftness and poise,
A proud child of the deer,
A white fawn he was,
Yet a fwn without fear.
No youth thought him vain,
Or made mock of his hair,
Or laughed when his ways
Were most curiously fair.
A mastiff at fight,
He could strike to the earth
The envious one
Who would challenge his worth.
However we bowed
To the schoolmaster mild,
Our spirits went out
To the fawn-looted child.
His beckoning led
Our troop to the brush.
We found nothing there
But a wind and a hush.
He sat by a stone
And he looked on the ground,
As if in the weeds
There was something profound.
His pipe seemed to neigh,
Then to bleat like a sheep,
Then sound like a stream
Or a waterfall deep.
It whispered strange tales,
Human words it spoke not.
Told fair things to come,
And our marvellous lot
If now with fawn-steps
Unshod we advanced
To the midst of the grove
And in reverence danced.
We obeyed as he piped
Soft grass to young feet,
Was a medicine mighty,
A remedy meet.
Our thin blood awoke,
It grew dizzy and wild,
Though scarcely a word
Moved the lips of a child.
Our dance gave allegiance,
It set us apart,
We tripped a strange measure,
Uplifted of heart.
II
We thought to be proud
Of our fawn everywhere.
We could hardly see how
Simple books were a care.
No rule of the school
This strange student could tame.
He was banished one day,
While we quivered with shame.
He piped back our love
On a moon-silvered night,
Enticed us once more
To the place of delight.
A greeting he sang
And it made our blood beat,
It tramped upon custom
And mocked at defeat.
He builded a fire
And we tripped in a ring,
The embers our books
And the fawn our good king.
And now we approached
All the mysteries rare
That shadowed his eyelids
And blew through his hair.
That spell now was peace
The deep strength of the trees,
The children of nature
We clambered her knees.
Our breath and our moods
Were in tune with her own,
Tremendous her presence,
Eternal her throne.
The ostracized child
Our white foreheads kissed,
Our bodies and souls
Became lighter than mist.
Sweet dresses like snow
Our small lady-loves wore,
Like moonlight the thoughts
That our bosoms upbore.
Like a lily the touch
Of each cold little hand.
The loves of the stars
We could now understand.
O quivering air!
O the crystalline night!
O pauses of awe
And the faces swan-white!
O ferns in the dusk!
O forest-shrined hour!
O earth that sent upward
The thrill and the power,
To lift us like leaves,
A delirious whirl,
The masterful boy
And the delicate girl!
What child that strange night-time
Can ever forget?
His fealty due
And his infinite debt
To the folly divine,
To the exquisite rule
Of the perilous master,
The fawn-looted fool?
III
Now soldiers we seem,
And night brings a new thing,
A terrible ire,
As of thunder awing.
A warrior power,
That old chivalry stirred,
When knights took up arms,
As the maidens gave word.
THE END OF OUR WAR,
WILL BE GLORY UNTOLD.
WHEN THE TOWN LIKE A GREAT
BUDDING ROSE SHALL UNFOLD!
Near, nearer that war,
And that ecstasy comes,
We hear the trees beating
Invisible drums.
The fields of the night
Are starlit above,
Our girls are white torches
Of conquest and love.
No nerve without will,
And no breast without breath,
We whirl with the planets
That never know death!
Strike the gay harp! see the moon is on high,
And, as true to her beam as the tides of the ocean,
Young hearts, when they feel the soft light of her eye,
Obey the mute call, and heave into motion.
Then, sound notes -  the gayest, the lightest,
That ever took wing, when heaven look'd brightest
Again! Again!
Oh! could such heart-stirring music be heard
In that City of Statues described by romancers,
So wakening its spell, even stone would be stirr'd,
And statues themselves all start into dancers!
Why then delay, with such sounds in our ears,
And the flower of Beauty's own garden before us -
While stars overhead leave the song of their spheres,
And, listening to ours, hang wondering o'er us?
Again, that strain! -  to hear it thus sounding
Might set even Death's cold pulses bounding -
Again! Again!
Oh, what delight when the youthful and gay
Each with eye like a sunbeam and foot like a feather,
Thus dance, like the Hours to the music of May,
And mingle sweet song and sunshine together.
In twilight days of half meals
We gathered weapons in, anger
Long stilled into vaporous ether
Whisked away unseen, a constant
Blown clear off these curled brows
For it had finally been enough
This unfathomable loss of us
The fighting of flesh, the torn minds
Ripping and flailing about of limbs, acts
Against greater odds, desperate thoughts
Lingering for eternity between hot breaths
Sweat of common and high ranking
Mingled with battle fluids crushed
Beneath wild gaze and maiden strengths
Slipping about every heart, our fallen
Purged to the surface in anguish
Unblemeshed ghost fathers
Nagging the mete of our worth
Dispatched at ever more familiar foe
Pressing fate amid this clumsy waltz
Of true victory none, then weary home
(A Poem Game.)
I
"Down cellar," said the cricket,
"Down cellar," said the cricket,
"Down cellar," said the cricket,
"I saw a ball last night,
In honor of a lady,
In honor of a lady,
In honor of a lady,
Whose wings were pearly-white.
The breath of bitter weather,
The breath of bitter weather,
The breath of bitter weather,
Had smashed the cellar pane.
We entertained a drift of leaves,
We entertained a drift of leaves,
We entertained a drift of leaves,
And then of snow and rain.
But we were dressed for winter,
But we were dressed for winter,
But we were dressed for winter,
And loved to hear it blow
In honor of the lady,
In honor of the lady,
In honor of the lady,
Who makes potatoes grow,
Our guest the Irish lady,
The tiny Irish lady,
The airy Irish lady,
Who makes potatoes grow.
II
"Potatoes were the waiters,
Potatoes were the waiters,
Potatoes were the waiters,
Potatoes were the band,
Potatoes were the dancers
Kicking up the sand,
Kicking up the sand,
Kicking up the sand,
Potatoes were the dancers
Kicking up the sand.
Their legs were old burnt matches,
Their legs were old burnt matches,
Their legs were old burnt matches,
Their arms were just the same.
They jigged and whirled and scrambled,
Jigged and whirled and scrambled,
Jigged and whirled and scrambled,
In honor of the dame,
The noble Irish lady
Who makes potatoes dance,
The witty Irish lady,
The saucy Irish lady,
The laughing Irish lady
Who makes potatoes prance.
III
"There was just one sweet potato.
He was golden brown and slim.
The lady loved his dancing,
The lady loved his dancing,
The lady loved his dancing,
She danced all night with him,
She danced all night with him.
Alas, he wasn't Irish.
So when she flew away,
They threw him in the coal-bin,
And there he is today,
Where they cannot hear his sighs
And his weeping for the lady,
The glorious Irish lady,
The beauteous Irish lady,
Who
Gives
Potatoes
Eyes."
We are Americans went nuke in 41
We are Americans we have the biggest gun
We now fight a war of attrition
We underestimate all our competition
We fight to maintain our hegemonious crime
We really don't care if we get there in time
We build a new weapon that kills before threat
We send in a soldier who isn't dead yet
We send in a soldier who comes back to life
We send home an alien to impregnate his wife
Visions of Terrorists soon walking our streets
Visions of Terrorists soon buying our meats
Visions of Terrorists dance in my head
Clinton and Rushdie will leave us for dead
Visions of Terrorists torture my brain
America, the collective, is going insane
(written June 10,1995)
You are growing old,
And your mind is aging too.
Your eyes are nearly closed,
And your moves are slowing, slowing...
But I still see the beauty
every time you show your dance,
For the ocean,
vast and blue.
I see the history of the world
in every twirl or dive,
It's there - almost gone -
fading, fading...
You seem to know the world,
All emotions and their ways,
For I see it in your dance,
For the ocean,
vast and blue.
So show it,
One more time, your dance,
For the ocean,
vast and blue.
Will you dance with me again?
Like we danced beneath the stars
Swaying in each others arms
To the music of a thousand guitars.
Will you dance with me again?
Like we danced the first time around
When breaths mingled and cheeks caressed
And all we heard was the heartbeat loud.
Will you dance with me again?
Like we did when we kissed
Gently first, and then with passion
When two lives got woven into one.
Will you dance with me again?
Just this one last time
For I want to feel loved
Before the end of lifetime!
(29 May 2007)
Dancing out of rhyme and reason.
Lacking rhythm with a pace too aged,
For the times you are behind.
And yet you request your steps be followed.
No one seems to have the nerve or courage,
To tell you...
Nothing you do nourishes to flourish!
They would rather watch you in the spotlight...
With efforts that make them sick to their stomachs,
Instead of telling you...
Not only are you out of your mind,
But the time you waste is no longer ours to give.
You dance...
Although the melody in your head has to stop!
We're just waiting for someone with heart enough...
To drag you off the floor!
You think you can
Dance
Let me see your dance
Show me
Show me
Girl
Because I want to see your dance
I am ready for it
Those words, life in peace,
A compass in the storm,
Light for closed eyes.
Tic, tac...
An old poet is speaking
And his harmony offers hope
And you feel like
Taking a look again
Without clouds,
Without winds,
One more chance
Before making the decission
shot in the eye
shot in the brain
shot in the ****
shot like a flower in the dance
amazing how death wins hands down
amazing how much credence is given to idiot forms of life
amazing how laughter has been drowned out
amazing how viciousness is such a constant
I must soon declare my own war on their war
I must hold to my last piece of ground
I must protect the small space I have made that has allowed me life
my life not their death
my death not their death…
night is a un explained song,
when my dreams let me
venture out and cross
the darkened borders.
at night it came,
darkness in the river,
in the jungle,
in the sky
inside my body,
opening the window
of fog,
i looked at him,
who held me in my dreams.
night passed in a trance
as i opened my eyes
to see the early morning  sunrise,
saying adieu,
to the vanishing moon.!
,
The poppies bow in honour of the fallen,
Swaying in the breeze, in fear of time,
Red gaping wounds upon the planets corpse,
Each scarlet petal a tear shed for our crimes,
Worn in remembrance of our shame…
Storm clouds gather, predicting repetition,
The starless grey sky prepares to weep
It’s bitter flood upon the sighing earth,
The murky light its secret tries to keep,
Believing its disgrace can be disguised…
A waning line of light takes one last breath,
Choking on blood the lonely flowers shed,
Heaven laments the passing of their bloom,
Angels and artists cry requiem for the dead,
Silence descends upon a once bright evening…
Ah, yesterday was dark and drear,
My heart was deadly sore;
Without thy love it seemed, my Dear,
That I could live no more.
And yet I laugh and sing to-day;
Care or care not for me,
Thou canst not take the love away
With which I worship thee.
And if to-morrow, Dear, I live,
My heart I shall not break:
For still I hold it that to give
Is sweeter than to take.
It's dark outside
But I see the light
Then darkness
I see the light again
And here comes dark
It's dark outside
I am lonely and sad
But I see the light
You ask my name
Then darkness
You take my hand
I see the light again
We fall in love
And here comes dark
It's dark outside
I can't find you
But I see the light
You were right there
Then darkness
I have my doubts
I see the light again
You say I'm wrong
And here comes dark
It's dark outside
I reach for you
But I see the light
You don't reach for me
Then darkness
I feel alone
I see the light again
I read your face
And here comes dark
It's dark outside
I want to leave
But I see the light
You're come to me
Then darkness
I feel your grip
I see the light
You're hurting me
And here comes dark
It's dark outside
I try to scream
But I see the light
You have my throat
Then darkness
I can not breath
I see the light
For the last time
And here comes dark
Think not, because I wonder where you fled,
That I would lift a pin to see you there;
You may, for me, be prowling anywhere,
So long as you show not your little head:
No dark and evil story of the dead
Would leave you less pernicious or less fair—
Not even Lilith, with her famous hair;
And Lilith was the devil, I have read.
I cannot hate you, for I loved you then.
The woods were golden then. There was a road
Through beeches; and I said their smooth feet showed
Like yours. Truth must have heard me from afar,
For I shall never have to learn again
That yours are cloven as no beech’s are.
BEHOLD, as goblins dark of mien
And portly tyrants dyed with crime
Change, in the transformation scene,
At Christmas, in the pantomime,
Instanter, at the prompter's cough,
The fairy bonnets them, and they
Throw their abhorred carbuncles off
And blossom like the flowers in May.
- So mankind, to angelic eyes,
So, through the scenes of life below,
In life's ironical disguise,
A travesty of man, ye go:
But fear not: ere the curtain fall,
Death in the transformation scene
Steps forward from her pedestal,
Apparent, as the fairy Queen;
And coming, frees you in a trice
From all your lendings - lust of fame,
Ungainly virtue, ugly vice,
Terror and tyranny and shame.
So each, at last himself, for good
In that dear country lays him down,
At last beloved and understood
And pure in feature and renown.
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Book shop.
(Lady, make your mind up, and wait your life away.)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Crap game.
(He said he'd come at moonrise, and here's another day!)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Bar-room.
(Wait about, and hang about, and that's the way it goes.)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Woman.
(Heaven never send me another one of those!)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Golf course.
(Read a book, and sew a seam, and slumber if you can.)
Some men, some men
Cannot pass a
Haberdasher's.
(All your life you wait around for some damn man!)
I.
My first thought was, he lied in every word,
That hoary cripple, with malicious eye
Askance to watch the working of his lie
On mine, and mouth scarce able to afford
Suppression of the glee, that pursed and scored
Its edge, at one more victim gained thereby.
II.
What else should he be set for, with his staff?
What, save to waylay with his lies, ensnare
All travellers who might find him posted there,
And ask the road? I guessed what skull-like laugh
Would break, what crutch 'gin write my epitaph
For pastime in the dusty thoroughfare,
III.
If at his counsel I should turn aside
Into that ominous tract which, all agree,
Hides the Dark Tower. Yet acquiescingly
I did turn as he pointed: neither pride
Nor hope rekindling at the end descried,
So much as gladness that some end might be.
IV.
For, what with my whole world-wide wandering,
What with my search drawn out thro' years, my hope
Dwindled into a ghost not fit to cope
With that obstreperous joy success would bring,
I hardly tried now to rebuke the spring
My heart made, finding failure in its scope.
V.
As when a sick man very near to death
Seems dead indeed, and feels begin and end
The tears and takes the farewell of each friend,
And hears one bid the other go, draw breath
Freelier outside, (``since all is o'er,'' he saith,
``And the blow falIen no grieving can amend;'')
VI.
While some discuss if near the other graves
Be room enough for this, and when a day
Suits best for carrying the corpse away,
With care about the banners, scarves and staves:
And still the man hears all, and only craves
He may not shame such tender love and stay.
VII.
Thus, I had so long suffered in this quest,
Heard failure prophesied so oft, been writ
So many times among ``The Band''---to wit,
The knights who to the Dark Tower's search addressed
Their steps---that just to fail as they, seemed best,
And all the doubt was now---should I be fit?
VIII.
So, quiet as despair, I turned from him,
That hateful cripple, out of his highway
Into the path he pointed. All the day
Had been a dreary one at best, and dim
Was settling to its close, yet shot one grim
Red leer to see the plain catch its estray.
IX.
For mark! no sooner was I fairly found
Pledged to the plain, after a pace or two,
Than, pausing to throw backward a last view
O'er the safe road, 'twas gone; grey plain all round:
Nothing but plain to the horizon's bound.
I might go on; nought else remained to do.
X.
So, on I went. I think I never saw
Such starved ignoble nature; nothing throve:
For flowers---as well expect a cedar grove!
But cockle, spurge, according to their law
Might propagate their kind, with none to awe,
You'd think; a burr had been a treasure-trove.
XI.
No! penury, inertness and grimace,
In some strange sort, were the land's portion. ``See
``Or shut your eyes,'' said nature peevishly,
``It nothing skills: I cannot help my case:
``'Tis the Last judgment's fire must cure this place,
``Calcine its clods and set my prisoners free.''
XII.
If there pushed any ragged thistle-stalk
Above its mates, the head was chopped; the bents
Were jealous else. What made those holes and rents
In the dock's harsh swarth leaves, bruised as to baulk
All hope of greenness?'tis a brute must walk
Pashing their life out, with a brute's intents.
XIII.
As for the grass, it grew as scant as hair
In leprosy; thin dry blades pricked the mud
Which underneath looked kneaded up with blood.
One stiff blind horse, his every bone a-stare,
Stood stupefied, however he came there:
Thrust out past service from the devil's stud!
XIV.
Alive? he might be dead for aught I know,
With that red gaunt and colloped neck a-strain,
And shut eyes underneath the rusty mane;
Seldom went such grotesqueness with such woe;
I never saw a brute I hated so;
He must be wicked to deserve such pain.
XV.
I shut my eyes and turned them on my heart.
As a man calls for wine before he fights,
I asked one draught of earlier, happier sights,
Ere fitly I could hope to play my part.
Think first, fight afterwards---the soldier's art:
One taste of the old time sets all to rights.
XVI.
Not it! I fancied Cuthbert's reddening face
Beneath its garniture of curly gold,
Dear fellow, till I almost felt him fold
An arm in mine to fix me to the place,
That way he used. Alas, one night's disgrace!
Out went my heart's new fire and left it cold.
XVII.
Giles then, the soul of honour---there he stands
Frank as ten years ago when knighted first.
What honest man should dare (he said) he durst.
Good---but the scene shifts---faugh! what hangman hands
Pin to his breast a parchment? His own bands
Read it. Poor traitor, spit upon and curst!
XVIII.
Better this present than a past like that;
Back therefore to my darkening path again!
No sound, no sight as far as eye could strain.
Will the night send a howlet or a bat?
I asked: when something on the dismal flat
Came to arrest my thoughts and change their train.
XIX.
A sudden little river crossed my path
As unexpected as a serpent comes.
No sluggish tide congenial to the glooms;
This, as it frothed by, might have been a bath
For the fiend's glowing hoof---to see the wrath
Of its black eddy bespate with flakes and spumes.
XX.
So petty yet so spiteful! All along,
Low scrubby alders kneeled down over it;
Drenched willows flung them headlong in a fit
Of route despair, a suicidal throng:
The river which had done them all the wrong,
Whate'er that was, rolled by, deterred no whit.
XXI.
Which, while I forded,---good saints, how I feared
To set my foot upon a dead man's cheek,
Each step, or feel the spear I thrust to seek
For hollows, tangled in his hair or beard!
---It may have been a water-rat I speared,
But, ugh! it sounded like a baby's shriek.
XXII.
Glad was I when I reached the other bank.
Now for a better country. Vain presage!
Who were the strugglers, what war did they wage,
Whose savage trample thus could pad the dank
Soil to a plash? Toads in a poisoned tank,
Or wild cats in a red-hot iron cage---
XXIII.
The fight must so have seemed in that fell cirque.
What penned them there, with all the plain to choose?
No foot-print leading to that horrid mews,
None out of it. Mad brewage set to work
Their brains, no doubt, like galley-slaves the Turk
Pits for his pastime, Christians against Jews.
XXIV.
And more than that---a furlong on---why, there!
What bad use was that engine for, that wheel,
Or brake, not wheel---that harrow fit to reel
Men's bodies out like silk? with all the air
Of Tophet's tool, on earth left unaware,
Or brought to sharpen its rusty teeth of steel.
XXV.
Then came a bit of stubbed ground, once a wood,
Next a marsh, it would seem, and now mere earth
Desperate and done with; (so a fool finds mirth,
Makes a thing and then mars it, till his mood
Changes and off he goes!) within a rood---
Bog, clay and rubble, sand and stark black dearth.
XXVI.
Now blotches rankling, coloured gay and grim,
Now patches where some leanness of the soil's
Broke into moss or substances like boils;
Then came some palsied oak, a cleft in him
Like a distorted mouth that splits its rim
Gaping at death, and dies while it recoils.
XXVII.
And just as far as ever from the end!
Nought in the distance but the evening, nought
To point my footstep further! At the thought,
great black bird, Apollyon's bosom-friend,
Sailed past, nor beat his wide wing dragon-penned
That brushed my cap---perchance the guide I sought.
XXVIII.
For, looking up, aware I somehow grew,
'Spite of the dusk, the plain had given place
All round to mountains---with such name to grace
Mere ugly heights and heaps now stolen in view.
How thus they had surprised me,---solve it, you!
How to get from them was no clearer case.
XXIX.
Yet half I seemed to recognize some trick
Of mischief happened to me, God knows when---
In a bad dream perhaps. Here ended, then,
Progress this way. When, in the very nick
Of giving up, one time more, came a click
As when a trap shuts---you're inside the den!
XXX.
Burningly it came on me all at once,
This was the place! those two hills on the right,
Crouched like two bulls locked horn in horn in fight;
While to the left, a tall scalped mountain ... Dunce,
Dotard, a-dozing at the very nonce,
After a life spent training for the sight!
XXXI.
What in the midst lay but the Tower itself?
The round squat turret, blind as the fool's heart,
Built of brown stone, without a counter-part
In the whole world. The tempest's mocking elf
Points to the shipman thus the unseen shelf
He strikes on, only when the timbers start.
XXXII.
Not see? because of night perhaps?---why, day
Came back again for that! before it left,
The dying sunset kindled through a cleft:
The hills, like giants at a hunting, lay,
Chin upon hand, to see the game at bay,---
``Now stab and end the creature---to the heft!''
XXXIII.
Not hear? when noise was everywhere! it tolled
Increasing like a bell. Names in my ears
Of all the lost adventurers my peers,---
How such a one was strong, and such was bold,
And such was fortunate, yet, each of old
Lost, lost! one moment knelled the woe of years.
XXXIV.
There they stood, ranged along the hill-sides, met
To view the last of me, a living frame
For one more picture! in a sheet of flame
I saw them and I knew them all. And yet
Dauntless the slug-horn to my lips I set,
And blew. ``_Childe Roland to the Dark Tower came._''
Come and play with me it whispers,
Its child like fingers clutching our own,
Come and play my game it pleads,
I will never leave you on your own,
I am not like the rest of humanity,
I am not fickle or consumed by worthless greed,
It entices us laughing sweetly in the night,
It chases us through the stars crying when we bleed,
Come and play with me it calls,
It runs on ahead playing a hungry little game,
It giggles in ecstasy as children run to it,
It wraps its arms around them staking its claim,
You are mine now, it tells the children,
You are my own flesh and blood,
Spread my message to the others of your kind,
Tell them it’s a reward for being good,
It claws at our skin, ripping away our flesh,
I like to play this game it laughs gaily,
I have new victims every night,
I birth new children daily,
It spreads its black wings towards the midnight sky,
It causes every murder while its eyes glint like a dying fire spark,
Go my children tell them to run,
Tell them to come and play in the dark…
Your belongings are meager
As you wander loveless streets,
And the sidewalks kill your soul
When you have no place to sleep.
For a young child,
Life should be visionary dreams,
Not drug dens of demise
Where everyman has a predator’s eyes.
Life unravels for everyone in time,
But there should be happiness and joy
Intermingled in-between birth
And the onset of the inevitable obscene,
But some people get cast aside
The moment they leave their mother’s breast.
As far as I remembered,
We were friends since forever,
Each other we never hated
Because we controlled our temper
But slowly we separated
And our laughter slowly faded
Our communication failed to start
Birthday cards became belated
And although we are apart
You are still in my heart
But for our friendship I hold fear
It’s going down hill in a wheeled cart
I hope someday you will reappear
And someday that you’ll be near
For every night I cry tears
For every night I cry tears
skimming stones,
into a dirty english sea,
bieng my big strong dad,
you would always beat me,
by a skim or two,
you were the Atlas of my world,
and i adored you.
watching me proudly.
playing football on a cold winters day,
i was rubbish,
yet always would you say,
great game son,
holding me tight,
soothing the nightmares frights,
singing me songs your dad sung to you,
the way great dads always do.
holding me hand, high up on the mountain side,
your strong reassuring grip
your face smoothed with pride.
these are the memories i treasure,
i will keep them with me forever,
these are the times when the family was one,
and you was daddy and i was son,
so simple it was back then,
i do love you dad,
but dark demons,
have built high thorny walls,
and neither of us can hear our calls,
of forgivness
I see you now,
and it makes me cry in my heart,
one so beautiful, and yet,
so damaged and messed up inside.
The scars that line your arms,
look like the intricate artwork of a tattooist,
those razor cuts and puncture wounds,
signs of a desparate cry for help.
That vacant look upon your face,
the doctors miracle cure;
Prozac, takes all your troubles away,
but all it does is pushes them deeper inside.
I see you now,
and it makes me cry in my heart,
one so beautiful, and yet,
so damaged and messed up inside.
My dark angel...
thick dark Crows circling to land.
at dusk with brown leaves swirling-
-It's true. I am the black crow-
and the bare tree waiting.
Uneasy darkness envelopes me.
Blinding moments
of mood disorient
this creature of melancholy.
A great saddness
my constant
companion.
My family is
moving away.
They haven't  left yet,
but oh they are going...
yes, they are going,
far away,
far away.
An uneasy foreboding
catches me unawares,
a premonition of tenebrous days ahead...
Questions thrown
to the ether...
Will I see you again?
Will fate take me away
before we can reunite?
A great saddess yes indeed,
yes indeed...
Dark, dark, dark...
10/4/09
O dark, dark, dark, amid the blaze of noon,
Irrecoverably dark, total eclipse
Without all hope of day!
As I enter the dark world of this online poetry site
(Darker than the darkest night)
I feel that I should abandon all hope
(Is this the gate of hell?
Have they cast a witch's spell
Over all who enter here?
Vague forms dangling from ropes,
Shapeless figures drowning in overheated sludge.
They're mucking about, each one a hypocritical drudge.
I smell fear and despair
In the noxious asphyxiating air.
I see sentences hacked to death,
And stanzas swooning (out of breath) .
The complete absence of punctuation marks
Makes the poems ooze with slime
(There's not even a trace of rhyme!) .
I feel I am drowning in some deep dark well.
Am I in the nethermost chambers of hell?
I've lost my sight, but not my smell
(These poetic hacks cannot even spell!)
What makes things worse is the way
They butter one another up
With gushing praise and false accolades,
Every one of them, with failed grades,
Unable to write a poem that's tolerable,
Though I must say their versions
Are hideously ‘holler'-able!
In my haunting dark, dark dream of scare
Into the depths where none dare
In the darkness of this night mare
The place where I live with fear in the air
Who would dream to venture there
In this dream of darkness despair
I go there without a living care
With nothing at all I wear
No weight upon me to tare
There's no light to see anything anywhere
Yet I travel there carrying burdens, I'm aware
Though my spirit and soul does that tear
I go there without any beware
A place where nothing is fair
Spiralling down an endless set of stair
On my neck, upright stands my hair
With my mind open wide, all of me I bare
To find that I am torn wide open in my lair
Until I'm nothing but blood on a chair
Until I wake with an open eyed stare…
Dark girl so filled with strife
Dark Dark girl she'll take your life
Dark girl stay for a while
Dark Dark girl she makes me smile
Dark girl she shows no fear
Dark Dark girl is always near
Dark girl wont see her cry
Dark Dark girl just wants to die
But Dark girl lives in the dark
so you dont see her painfull mark
Dark Dark girl may never know
just how much the light can show
Dark dark moon
Dark dark moon
No no no no no, don't show me your face...!
Dark dark moon
Dark dark moon
No no no no no, no my eyes won't turn...!
Dark dark moon
Dark dark moon
No no no no no, please don't talk to me...!
Dark dark moon
Dark dark moon
No no no no no, please please don't go away....!
I'm blinded
When I scream
As I tumble through the darkness
Of my dream
Lost and lonely
But nobody knows
I'm surrounded by pain
And I'm all alone
Frightened and afraid
Full of fear
I reach out to escape
My eyes open with tears
One day,
Dogs will laugh
In the streets,
And we’ll kiss wildly
Like lunatics
Escaping the asylum.
You’re a dark girl
So I’m painting
My roses black,
And I’ll murder the sun
If he ever turns his back.
I would rather
Enter the palace of your pain
Than continue to exist
In the prison cell of my loneliness.
Sweet maiden, why disguise
The beauty of your eyes
With glasses black?
Although I'm well aware
That you are more than fair,
Allure you lack.
For as I stare at you
I ask if brown or blue
Your optics are?
But though I cannot see,
I'm sure that each must be
Bright as a star.
That may be green or grey,
'Tis very hard to say,
Or violet;
The lovelight in their glow
Alas, I'll never know,
To my regret.
In some rhyme-book I've read,
A lady bard has said,
And deemed it true,
Men will not bite the necks
Of sweeties who wear specs,--
Young man, would you?
But though they balk romance,
Columbus took a chance,
And so would I;
Even with orbs unseen
I'd fain make you my queen
And you en-sky.
Alas I see you go,
And I will never know
Your pupils tint;
So o'er a lonely drink
I force myself to think:
Damsel, you squint!
Welcome to my haunted house
Dare to see the dark in me
Suits of armor wait to joust
Eyes in portraits move to see
Stroke my ego, don't be shy
Give my id his equal pay
Watch the serpent slither by
My alter ego's chance to play
In the dungeon sleeps the creature
Securely cuffed in mounted chains
Disregard his ragged features
Please excuse the carpet stains
Behind the bookcase hides my secrets
Discretion swept up under rugs
The dark in me you haven't met
Struggles loose in warring tugs
Tempting me in carnal pleasure
Rewarding me if I dare
Accolades in grand measure
Disposing me in deep despair
Dark is dark, let it be,
Dark is dark, let it be,
What it was dark, is still now and will
Continue to be so in future,
Dark is dark, let it be,
What it was, what it is,
Dark is dark,
Dark the myths of life,
Dark the tales of the Creation,
Darker the ways of the world
Taking to which man comes here,
Taking to that man goes out.
The dark moon is rising
No silver left to see
The crone has awakened
Her power flows in me
The dark storm is coming
The rain pouring down
The thunder raises power
As lightening takes ground
The dark Queen is walking
Her whispers call to me
Ancient wisdom flowing
Circling energies flow free
The dark night is waiting
Its lure a sweet bane
Stepped through my shadow
And I am forever changed
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
Dark, more dark,
See the days here.
And in dark
They play.
Dark has no death.
If you are ready to
Love the dark,
Dark may kiss you,
And you may see
Yourself half.
Ask not for
Other half, my dear,
Since the sun is
Before you, nothing is to utter.
For I have seen dark mountains in the sky,
More Himalayan to the naked eye,
Than any reason for our where or why.
Hands clasp to lift a measure of that height.
The gesture is as fragile as a kite
Against the massive, polarizing night.
And yet, my friend, I am content to be
A little part of that entirety.
All space my hands can hold belongs to me.
In a dark night, when the light
burning was the burning of love (fortuitous
night, fated, free,--)
as I stole from my dark house, dark
house that was silent, grave, sleeping,--
by the staircase that was secret, hidden,
safe: disguised by darkness (fortuitous
night, fated, free,--)
by darkness and by cunning, dark
house that was silent, grave, sleeping--;
in that sweet night, secret, seen by
no one and seeing
nothing, my only light or
guide
the burning in my burning heart,
night was the guide
to the place where he for whom I
waited, whom I had long ago chosen,
waits: night
brighter than noon, in which none can see--;
night was the guide
sweeter than the sun raw at
dawn, for there the burning bridegroom is
bride
and he who chose at last is chosen.
*
As he lay sleeping on my sleepless
breast, kept from the beginning for him
alone, lying on the gift I gave
as the restless
fragrant cedars moved the restless winds,--
winds from the circling parapet circling
us as I lay there touching and lifting his hair,--
with his sovereign hand, he
wounded my neck-
and my senses, when they touched that, touched nothing...
In a dark night	(there where I
lost myself,--) as I leaned to rest
in his smooth white breast, everything
ceased
and left me, forgotten in the grave of forgotten lilies.
Dying Romantic says:
I walk these streets all alone,
the sound of your voice still ringing on my phone.
You just couldn't leave our past behind,
why must I be the one that's always kind?
Your face haunts my nightmares,
and you always leave me something on the stairs.
I burn it with glee,
and yet you send more to pester me.
This heart can't take any more abuse,
so let me cut you loose.
This is goodbye...
-Dying Romantic
July 20th 2006
Dark is a shade of my heart.
When I close my eyes I see a ray of light in dark.
It gives me pleasure of finding you in dark.
It gives me life of your existence.
It gives me passion of your adorable touches.
I always want to close my eyes to see u in dark.
This is the way I want you.
When I open my eyes you are not in my mind.
It gives me sorrow of losing you in dark.
It gives me confusion of your existence.
It gives me loneliness when I am surrounding with people.
I never wanted to open my eyes cause I love you.
This is the way I love you.
This poem bleeds dysfunctional desire,
Blood stains through the dirty streets
Mark the paths we trod,
Urban avenues of despair,
But I was still romantic for you,
Your thin unattractive body
And unwashed stringy blond hair,
Your ghost stare in the headlights’ glare,
Your wish to blend into streetlamps
Of non-existence,
Romantic for your perishing soul
Looking for a ride home from strangers
at 2: 00AM,
Something about drugs and tortured eyes
On a lost waif and her pointless life
Was registering as meaningful
In my dark poetic mind,
You offered me the best sex I could ever have,
But I thought, I better let it slide,
Just let you talk about it,
Not put those skinny bones to the test,
Not be one more creep killing a girl
And getting a disease.
O MY Dark Rosaleen,
Do not sigh, do not weep!
The priests are on the ocean green,
They march along the deep.
There 's wine from the royal Pope,
Upon the ocean green;
And Spanish ale shall give you hope,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My own Rosaleen!
Shall glad your heart, shall give you hope,
Shall give you health, and help, and hope,
My Dark Rosaleen!
Over hills, and thro' dales,
Have I roam'd for your sake;
All yesterday I sail'd with sails
On river and on lake.
The Erne, at its highest flood,
I dash'd across unseen,
For there was lightning in my blood,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My own Rosaleen!
O, there was lightning in my blood,
Red lightning lighten'd thro' my blood.
My Dark Rosaleen!
All day long, in unrest,
To and fro, do I move.
The very soul within my breast
Is wasted for you, love!
The heart in my bosom faints
To think of you, my Queen,
My life of life, my saint of saints,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My own Rosaleen!
To hear your sweet and sad complaints,
My life, my love, my saint of saints,
My Dark Rosaleen!
Woe and pain, pain and woe,
Are my lot, night and noon,
To see your bright face clouded so,
Like to the mournful moon.
But yet will I rear your throne
Again in golden sheen;
'Tis you shall reign, shall reign alone,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My own Rosaleen!
'Tis you shall have the golden throne,
'Tis you shall reign, and reign alone,
My Dark Rosaleen!
Over dews, over sands,
Will I fly, for your weal:
Your holy delicate white hands
Shall girdle me with steel.
At home, in your emerald bowers,
From morning's dawn till e'en,
You'll pray for me, my flower of flowers,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My fond Rosaleen!
You'll think of me through daylight hours,
My virgin flower, my flower of flowers,
My Dark Rosaleen!
I could scale the blue air,
I could plough the high hills,
O, I could kneel all night in prayer,
To heal your many ills!
And one beamy smile from you
Would float like light between
My toils and me, my own, my true,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My fond Rosaleen!
Would give me life and soul anew,
A second life, a soul anew,
My Dark Rosaleen!
O, the Erne shall run red,
With redundance of blood,
The earth shall rock beneath our tread,
And flames wrap hill and wood,
And gun-peal and slogan-cry
Wake many a glen serene,
Ere you shall fade, ere you shall die,
My Dark Rosaleen!
My own Rosaleen!
The Judgement Hour must first be nigh,
Ere you can fade, ere you can die,
My Dark Rosaleen!
indulge my observation
while fusion warms the days
counting micro-Einsteins
(sounds funny to say)
with sunlight overhead
my instrument won't play
excuse me, please
but can't you see
you're standing
in my rays?
A poor chap is digging trenches
in the frontier beneath the Sungod.
He is not in regular army
who enrol voluntarily.
Like an arrow he has fallen to the earth
who cannot read and write.
For the daily wage he press his thumb mark
on the matt finished wages sheet
but his cataract blurred the notes.
He scorch like charcoal
and he sweats like an ocean.
During the short interval he take a catnap
and he dreams who became the Major General.
He is bit unhappy when he come to the reality
But this brave soul's smile covers all  his mentality.
My mother
Foresaw deaths
And walked among
Chrysanthemums,
Winecolored,
Withe red rose,
The earthy blossoms.
My very breath
Disowned
In nights of study,
And page by page
I came on spring.
The rats run on the roof,
These words come hard---
Sadder than cockcrow
In a dreamless, earthen sleep.
The Christ, eternal
In the scented cold; my love,
Her hand on the sill
White, as if out of earth;
And spring, the sleep of the dead.
Urgency of frantic desire
Requires witchcraft
Or that I become
A mystical gypsy
Reading fortunes and the future
By tea leaves or the alignment of the stars
In the cryptic and magical sky.
I have already read my misfortune in your eyes,
And that my every fragile hope to be with you
Flees like a frightened child,
That the path is mapped
For me to become a man of your distant past,
Driven further and further
From your memories.
If I could only learn
Dark supernatural skills
That could transform fate
Into ardent dreams,
Then you would linger here
In a blissful embrace.
Beware ye
The violent tempests of the heart
That rage through the flesh
Among men,
To thunder and hail
Upon the fields
And, render
Each harvest thin.
Then shall
The flood waters rise
Upon Virtue’s plains
To choke the humble and meek,
Drowning the memory
Of my name
Through tyranny and oppression
Unto the weak.
8-03-2006
Said I to Pain: "You would not dare
Do ill to me."
Said Pain: "Poor fool! Why should I care
Whom you may be?
To clown and king alike I bring
My meed of bane;
Why should you shirk my chastening?"
Said Pain.
Said I to Grief: "No tears have I,
Go on your way."
Said Grief: "Why should I pass you by,
While others pay?
All men must know the way of woe,
From saint to thief,
And tears were meant to overflow,"
Said Grief.
Said I to Death: "From ail and fret
Grant me relief."
Said Death: "I know you are beset
By Pain and Grief.
But my good will you must await
Since human breath
To suffering is consecrate,"
Said Death.
Said I to God: "Pale Sister Grief,
Bleak Brother Pain,
Bedevil me beyond belief,
And Death's unfain . . ."
Said God: "Curse not that blessed Three,
Poor human clod!
Have faith! Believe the One with Me,"
Said God.
Birds have no consciousness of doom:
Yon thrush that serenades me daily
From scented snow of hawthorn bloom
Would not trill out his glee so gaily,
Could he foretell his songful breath
Would sadly soon be stilled in death.
Yon lambs that frolic on the lea
And incarnate the joy of life,
Would scarce disport them could they see
The shadow of the butcher's knife:
Oh Nature, with your loving ruth,
You spare them knowledge of Dark Truth.
To sad humanity alone,
(Creation's triumph ultimate)
The grimness of the grave is known,
The dusty destiny await . . . .
Oh bird and beast, with joy, elance
Effulgently your ingorance!
Oh man, previsioning the hearse,
With fortitude accept your curse!
This wood burns a dark
Incense. Pale moss drips
In elbow-scarves, beards
From the archaic
Bones of the great trees.
Blue mists move over
A lake thick with fish.
Snails scroll the border
Of the glazed water
With coils of ram's-horn.
Out in the open
Down there the late year
Hammers her rare and
Various metals.
Old pewter roots twist
Up from the jet-backed
Mirror of water
And while the air's clear
Hourglass sifts a
Drift of goldpieces
Bright waterlights are
Sliding their quoits one
After the other
Down boles of the fir.
GOD with His million cares
Went to the left or right,
Leaving our world; and the day
Grew night.
Back from a sphere He came
Over a starry lawn,
Looked at our world; and the dark
Grew dawn.
As his mind weaves
A spiderweb on the wall
Of his heart
I silently watch
Bemused
Admiring the intricate web
So light
Beguiling in its softness
And watch the hovering bees
Slowly becoming a prisoner
Caught in its beauty
And
The spider mind
Already moved
To a new wall
To make
Its next masterpiece
As the girdle of time
digs sharply into my flesh
As the black veil of my existence
hides the impermeable Truth
As the flame of my thoughts move in
rapid circles and become a mere line
As the vulture of pervading questions
devour my almost dead body
As the furnace of my yearning
bakes it into a solemn comprehension
That this is the Enddddddddddd.
Driving on the nights highway
Deep into the dark night that swells
Scorched by the moonlight gone astray
The wind laments, the devils dwell
The dark blanket of the night enshrouds
A sudden chill, a gust of fog envelops
Sensing a bad omen, together we all crowd
The car sputters, the engine goes bust
The spirits rise from the ashes
Chanting ha ho, ha ho
A searing bolt of lightning lashes
Will there be no dawn tomorrow
The wolves huddle, stalking around our door
We could hear the beats of our heart
Whimpering with fear, crouching on the floor
As they lunge....I wake up with a start.
The abyss yawns and beckons....
Its so easy to dropp in
To just give up the resistance
And get drawn
by the magnetic force within....
Feel the joy of the sheer slide
as you go deep down
Did you indulge in all sins?
Did you revere the demons?
Just close your eyes
and enjoy the slide
Listen to the sound
of your soul's laughter
mocking you.....
Make the soul flee
from your body
Revel in it
Dwell in it
Celebrate your freedom
Now no need to abstain from
any form of sin
Let the journey begin....
****** Inspired by Jim Morrison ******
Why is tonight such a dark night
What is it trying to hide?
Sweeping a dark velvet shroud shutting all light
Invoking the restful spirits to rise
Rise, rise, slowly they rise
Mortals like us standing in a hush
The shaman suddenly lets out a cry
His chants gone awry in a sudden rush
They swoop, they circle, they speak without words
A sudden breeze blows, an icy shudder flows
The owl lets out a shriek, so do other birds
The demons in the mortals sneak out in rows
The wolves come out from the men
To join the dance of its hosts
Circling over the body of the shaman
Being feasted by the ghosts
The men stand rooted in a respectful trance
The moon slides in to watch casting its silvery light
To see this orgy of the dark, to see them all dance
As the fog creeps in and then out, they have floated out of sight
A deep dark night
Clutching like a parasite
Strange dark woods
Throwing its hoods
Refusing to let go
Howling winds blow
Threatening whirlpools
Demons rule
Tentacles and vines
circle and entwine
your dark mind
Raging tempest
Anguished quest
Died a thousand deaths
Trying to set love on the breath
Deep cloud cover
O seething lover
Dont burn so bright
In your own light
Slide out from the side
Do it now
Before you die
Run, escape
Before you get raped
By your own mind
Thats made you blind
With its simmering steam
can hear your soul scream
Soar up to the sky
Along the length of my thigh
Wings of your fancy and fly
Up, up, high, high
Join me inside
Inside my love, Die.....
Suspended by his wrath
A mind that is fraught
With delusions about his genius
And a sea of dissatisfaction
Yearning to reach a bliss
Hanging by his dark desires
Burning in his blazing fire
The Vampire lurks.....
Led by a belief
That he will get his release
Riding on her dreams
As he spots her, his inner eye gleams
He gets a whiff of the expanded soul
And he wants ALL of it to make him whole
The light that will glorify him
The Vampire strikes.....
We shall not always plant while others reap
The golden increment of bursting fruit,
Not always countenance, abject and mute,
That lesser men should hold their brothers cheap;
Not everlastingly while others sleep
Shall we beguile their limbs with mellow flute,
Not always bend to some more subtle brute;
We were not made to eternally weep.
The night whose sable breast relieves the stark,
White stars is no less lovely being dark,
And there are buds that cannot bloom at all
In light, but crumple, piteous, and fall;
So in the dark we hide the heart that bleeds,
And wait, and tend our agonizing seeds.
I want to sleep the dream of the apples,
to withdraw from the tumult of cemetries.
I want to sleep the dream of that child
who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas.
I don't want to hear again that the dead do not lose their blood,
that the putrid mouth goes on asking for water.
I don't want to learn of the tortures of the grass,
nor of the moon with a serpent's mouth
that labors before dawn.
I want to sleep awhile,
awhile, a minute, a century;
but all must know that I have not died;
that there is a stable of gold in my lips;
that I am the small friend of the West wing;
that I am the intense shadows of my tears.
Cover me at dawn with a veil,
because dawn will throw fistfuls of ants at me,
and wet with hard water my shoes
so that the pincers of the scorpion slide.
For I want to sleep the dream of the apples,
to learn a lament that will cleanse me to earth;
for I want to live with that dark child
who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas.
jazz club
three african men talk about
the jewel in the dark
In a dark time, the eye begins to see,
I meet my shadow in the deepening shade;
I hear my echo in the echoing wood--
A lord of nature weeping to a tree.
I live between the heron and the wren,
Beasts of the hill and serpents of the den.
What's madness but nobility of soul
At odds with circumstance? The day's on fire!
I know the purity of pure despair,
My shadow pinned against a sweating wall.
That place among the rocks--is it a cave,
Or a winding path? The edge is what I have.
A steady storm of correspondences!
A night flowing with birds, a ragged moon,
And in broad day the midnight come again!
A man goes far to find out what he is--
Death of the self in a long, tearless night,
All natural shapes blazing unnatural light.
Dark, dark my light, and darker my desire.
My soul, like some heat-maddened summer fly,
Keeps buzzing at the sill. Which I is I?
A fallen man, I climb out of my fear.
The mind enters itself, and God the mind,
And one is One, free in the tearing wind.
I felt her smile like the rays of the sun
approaching me I almost felt she would run
calling my name with a pleasuring glee
excitingly glorious she came to me
We talked and we laughed holding hands in the park
a crisp winters morning we felt the ice crack
old friends and old lovers like we just met
remembering times we could never forget
Back in our teens we ran wild through the streets
with friends in a gang and the world at our feet
mischief and trouble were things we knew well
trust was a byword for love that we felt
We became closer and needed more time
exploring emotions we just had to find
that first teenage kiss in the dark alleyway
still with us eternal remembered today
The broken Coke sign flickering in the cafe
we nervously laughed as it flashed Cok each day
all through the winter we huddled and talked
encouraging moments that we couldn't stop
Our friends drifted off somewhere in the unknown
as we bonded closer in love on our own
enjoying the pleasures of body and mind
as teenagers do as they grow through that time
We tried to make plans for the future I guess
but we were just amateurs out of our depth
as the spring came it melted the snow and our dreams
and we stretched our wings seeking different things
Forty years on at the roadside cafe
the Coke sign still flickers as we nervously
smile at each other and remember the day
of that first teenage kiss in the dark alleyway.
IN THE DARK MIRROR
in the dark mirror
where no light can reach
I see her still face
radiant with a smile
her passion frozen
in the dark mirror
- Mirrors,2008 -
In the dark pine-wood
I would we lay,
In deep cool shadow
At noon of day.
How sweet to lie there,
Sweet to kiss,
Where the great pine-forest
Enaisled is!
Thy kiss descending
Sweeter were
With a soft tumult
Of thy hair.
O unto the pine-wood
At noon of day
Come with me now,
Sweet love, away.
I see thee better—in the Dark—
I do not need a Light—
The Love of Thee—a Prism be—
Excelling Violet—
I see thee better for the Years
That hunch themselves between—
The Miner's Lamp—sufficient be—
To nullify the Mine—
And in the Grave—I see Thee best—
Its little Panels be
Aglow—All ruddy—with the Light
I held so high, for Thee—
What need of Day—
To Those whose Dark—hath so—surpassing Sun—
It deem it be—Continually—
At the Meridian?
I wake and feel the fell of dark, not day,
What hours, O what black hours we have spent
This night! what sights you, heart, saw; ways you went!
And more must, in yet longer light's delay.
With witness I speak this. But where I say
Hours I mean years, mean life. And my lament
Is cries countless, cries like dead letters sent
To dearest him that lives alas! away.
I am gall, I am heartburn. God's most deep decree
Bitter would have me taste: my taste was me;
Bones built in me, flesh filled, blood brimmed the curse.
Selfyeast of spirit a dull dough sours. I see
The lost are like this, and their scourge to be
As I am mine, their sweating selves; but worse.
I am living in the darkness
I feel so scared
I feel unsafe
I dont know what to do
I cry everyday and night
And I feel that I want to cry more and more
Non stop
It really dark here
I hear my mom voice
But I cant reach her
And I hear my friends calling me
But they cant hear me
I dont know what to do
I start screaming and screaming
But suddenly their voices r gone
They leave me all alone in the darkness
I start crying again and again
And suddenly
A light so weak appears, shivering in the dark
I didnt know what it was
I feel so endangered
I saw an extended hand
That wants to grab me towards its unrevealed body
I ran away
I hear a male vioce
Calling my name
Telling me that he wants to save me
I turn and look at him
I thought he was just like an angel
Just like an angel in a human body
With flesh and blood
He took my hand
To show me the way
When I was out of the dark
He gave me a butterfly
He gave me a butterfly
And with it
He filled my heart with hope
Gave me a reason to never give up
Just knowing that some one,
Somewhere
Actually cared about me,
Loved me
That will give me all the strength i need to live
To survive
Here in my bedroom deprived of all light
My senses reach out to the blackness of night
How heightened they are… no need to see
The sounds of our home give comfort to me
My wife lies beside me… I Love her so much
My mind reels with passion at the thought of her touch….
She is so angelic in the embrace of her sleep
Her spirit exploring other worlds strange and deep…
The smell of perfume like flowers of spring
Fills me with warmth and contentment within
The sound of her breathing… steady and slow
She feels safe and cosy I’m happy to know..
The taste of her lips still fresh in my mind
The touch of her skin as it pressed against mine….
As she gently drew me…. my passions alight
Into her warm body where our spirits unite
Oh! What a dream has this reality become..
Living and loving.. a couple as one…
The reason I came here to this mortal life..
Is now so apparent
To experience my wife
From the shadows his hand took a hold of my wrist,
I panicked and struggled to escape his tight grip,
I heard his footsteps creep behind mine
the sweat dripped and tears filled my eyes,
I ran
until reaching an empty road dead as the night,
It scared me the most.
I didn't look behind
he may be ready to attack at any time,
I regained my courage and turned to see if he would show,
His where abouts I did not know,
There I was
Standing alone,
Surrounded by mist and the trees that spoke,
The sun started to fall
my heart beat began to rise,
As once again
I felt his hand touch mine.
My soul is dark - Oh! quickly string
The harp I yet can brook to hear;
And let thy gentle fingers fling
Its melting murmurs o'er mine ear.
If in this heart a hope be dear,
That sound shall charm it forth again:
If in these eyes there lurk a tear,
'Twill flow, and cease to burn my brain.
But bid the strain be wild and deep,
Nor let thy notes of joy be first:
I tell thee, minstrel, I must weep,
Or else this heavy heart will burst;
For it hath been by sorrow nursed,
And ached in sleepless silence, long;
And now 'tis doomed to know the worst,
And break at once - or yield to song.
10
My wheel is in the dark!
I cannot see a spoke
Yet know its dripping feet
Go round and round.
My foot is on the Tide!
An unfrequented road—
Yet have all roads
A clearing at the end—
Some have resigned the Loom—
Some in the busy tomb
Find quaint employ—
Some with new—stately feet—
Pass royal through the gate—
Flinging the problem back
At you and I!
Not quite dark yet
and the stars shining
above the withered fields.
Translated by Robert Hass
Th'imprison'd winds slumber within their caves
Fast bound: the fickle vane, emblem of change,
Wavers no more, long-settling to a point.
All nature nodding seems compos'd: thick steams
From land, from flood up-drawn, dimming the day,
"Like a dark ceiling stand:" slow thro' the air
Gossamer floats, or stretch'd from blade to blade
The wavy net-work whitens all the field.
Push'd by the weightier atmosphere, up springs
The ponderous Mercury, from scale to scale
Mounting, amidst the Torricellian tube.
While high in air, and pois'd upon his wings
Unseen, the soft, enamour'd wood-lark runs
Thro' all his maze of melody; -- the brake
Loud with the black-bird's bolder note resounds.
Sooth'd by the genial warmth, the cawing rook
Anticipates the spring, selects her mate,
Haunts her tall nest-trees, and with sedulous care
Repairs her wicker eyrie, tempest torn.
The plough-man inly smiles to see upturn
His mellow glebe, best pledge of future crop:
With glee the gardener eyes his smoking beds:
E'en pining sickness feels a short relief.
The happy school-boy brings transported forth
His long-forgotten scourge, and giddy gig:
O'er the white paths he whirls the rolling hoop,
Or triumphs in the dusty fields of taw.
Not so the museful sage: -- abroad he walks
Contemplative, if haply he may find
What cause controuls the tempest's rage, or whence
Amidst the savage season winter smiles.
For days, for weeks, prevails the placid calm.
At length some drops prelude a change: the sun
With ray refracted bursts the parting gloom;
When all the chequer'd sky is one bright glare.
Mutters the wind at eve: th' horizon round
With angry aspect scowls: down rush the showers,
And float the delug'd paths, and miry fields.
But may a Rural Pen try to set forth
Such a Great Fathers Ancient Grace and worth
I undertake a no less Arduous Theme
Then the Old Sages found the Chaldae Dream
'Tis more then Tythes of a profound respect
That must be paid such a Melchizedeck
Oxford this light with tongues and Arts doth trim
And then his Northern Town doth Challeng him
His Time and Strength he Center'd there in this
To do good works, and be what now he is.
His fulgent Virtues there and learned Strains
Tall comely Presence, Life unsoil'd with Stains
Things most on WORTHIES in their Stories writ
Did him to move in Orbs of Service fitt
Things more peculiar yet, my muse intend
Say stranger things then these, so weep and End
When he forsook first his Oxonian Cell
Some Scores at once from Popish darkness fell
So this Reformer studied! rare first fruits!
Shakeing a Crab-tree thus by hot disputes
The acid juice by miracle turn'd wine
And rais'd the Spirits of our young Divine
Hearers like Doves flock'd with contentios wing
Who should be first, feed most: most homeward bring
Laden with honey like Hyblaean Bees
They knead it into combs upon their knees.
Why he from Europes pleasant Garden fled
In the Next Age will be with horrour said
Braintree was of this Jewel then possest
Untill himself he labour'd into Rest
His Inventory then with Johns was took
His rough Coat, Girdle with the Sacred Book
When Reverend Knowles and he sail'd hand in hand
To Christ, Espousing the Virginian Land
Upon a ledge of Craggy Rocks near stav'd
His Bible in his bosome thrusting sav'd
The Bible, the best cordial of his Heart
Come floods, come flames (cry'd he) we'l never part
A constellation of great converts there
Shone round him and his Heav'nly Glory where
With a Rare Skill in hearts, this Doctor cou'd
Steal into them words that should do them good
His Balsom's from the Tree of Life distill'd
Hearts cleans'd and heal'd, and with rich comforts fill'd
But here's the wo! Balsoms which others cur'd
Would in his Own Turn hardly be endur'd
Apollyon Owing him a cursed Spleen
Who an Apollos in the Church had been
Dreading his Traffick here would be undone
By Numerous proselites he daily won
Accus'd him of Imaginary faults
And push'd him down so into dismal Vaults
Vaults where he kept long Ember weeks of grief
'Till Heav'n alarm'd sent him in relief
Then was a Daniel in the lyons Den
A man, oh how belov'd of God and men
By his beds-side an Hebrew sword there lay
With which at last he drove the Devil away.
Quaker's too durst not bear his keen replies
But fearing it half drawn the trembler flyes
Like Lazarus new rais'd from Death appears
The Saint that had been dead for many years
Our Nehemiah said, shall such as I
Desert my flock, and like a Coward fly
Long had the Churches begg'd the Saints release
Releas'd at last, he dies in Glorious peace
The Night is not so long, but phosphors ray
Approaching Glories doth on high display
Faith's Eye in him discern'd the Morning Star
His heart leap'd; Sure the Sun cannot be far
In Extasies of Joy, he Ravish'd Cryes
Love, Love the Lamb, the Lamb, in whome he dies.
1
Senlin sits before us, and we see him.
He smokes his pipe before us, and we hear him.
Is he small, with reddish hair,
Does he light his pipe with meditative stare,
And a pointed flame reflected in both eyes?
Is he sad and happy and foolish and wise?
Did no one see him enter the doors of the city,
Looking above him at the roofs and trees and skies?
'I stepped from a cloud', he says, 'as evening fell;
I walked on the sound of a bell;
I ran with winged heels along a gust;
Or is it true that I laughed and sprang from dust? . . .
Has no one, in a great autumnal forest,
When the wind bares the trees,
Heard the sad horn of Senlin slowly blown?
Has no one, on a mountain in the spring,
Heard Senlin sing?
Perhaps I came alone on a snow-white horse,--
Riding alone from the deep-starred night.
Perhaps I came on a ship whose sails were music,--
Sailing from moon or sun on a river of light.'
He lights his pipe with a pointed flame.
'Yet, there were many autumns before I came,
And many springs. And more will come, long after
There is no horn for me, or song, or laughter.
The city dissolves about us, and its walls
Become an ancient forest. There is no sound
Except where an old twig tires and falls;
Or a lizard among the dead leaves crawls;
Or a flutter is heard in darkness along the ground.
Has Senlin become a forest? Do we walk in Senlin?
Is Senlin the wood we walk in, --ourselves,--the world?
Senlin! we cry . . . Senlin! again . . . No answer,
Only soft broken echoes backward whirled . . .
Yet we would say: this is no wood at all,
But a small white room with a lamp upon the wall;
And Senlin, before us, pale, with reddish hair,
Lights his pipe with a meditative stare.
2
Senlin, walking beside us, swings his arms
And turns his head to look at walls and trees.
The wind comes whistling from shrill stars of winter,
The lights are jewels, black roots freeze.
'Did I, then, stretch from the bitter earth like these,
Reaching upward with slow and rigid pain
To seek, in another air, myself again?'
(Immense and solitary in a desert of rocks
Behold a bewildered oak
With white clouds screaming through its leafy brain.)
'Or was I the single ant, or tinier thing,
That crept from the rocks of buried time
And dedicated its holy life to climb
From atom to beetling atom, jagged grain to grain,
Patiently out of the darkness we call sleep
Into a hollow gigantic world of light
Thinking the sky to be its destined shell,
Hoping to fit it well!--'
The city dissolves about us, and its walls
Are mountains of rock cruelly carved by wind.
Sand streams down their wasting sides, sand
Mounts upward slowly about them: foot and hand
We crawl and bleed among them! Is this Senlin?
In the desert of Senlin must we live and die?
We hear the decay of rocks, the crash of boulders,
Snarling of sand on sand. 'Senlin!' we cry.
'Senlin!' again . . . Our shadows revolve in silence
Under the soulless brilliance of blue sky.
Yet we would say: there are no rocks at all,
Nor desert of sand . . . here by a city wall
White lights jewell the evening, black roots freeze,
And Senlin turns his head to look at trees.
3
It is evening, Senlin says, and in the evening,
By a silent shore, by a far distant sea,
White unicorns come gravely down to the water.
In the lilac dusk they come, they are white and stately,
Stars hang over the purple waveless sea;
A sea on which no sail was ever lifted,
Where a human voice was never heard.
The shadows of vague hills are dark on the water,
The silent stars seem silently to sing.
And gravely come white unicorns down to the water,
One by one they come and drink their fill;
And daisies burn like stars on the darkened hill.
It is evening Senlin says, and in the evening
The leaves on the trees, abandoned by the light,
Look to the earth, and whisper, and are still.
The bat with horned wings, tumbling through the darkness,
Breaks the web, and the spider falls to the ground.
The starry dewdrop gathers upon the oakleaf,
Clings to the edge, and falls without a sound.
Do maidens spread their white palms to the starlight
And walk three steps to the east and clearly sing?
Do dewdrops fall like a shower of stars from willows?
Has the small moon a ghostly ring? . . .
White skeletons dance on the moonlit grass,
Singing maidens are buried in deep graves,
The stars hang over a sea like polished glass . . .
And solemnly one by one in the darkness there
Neighing far off on the haunted air
White unicorns come gravely down to the water.
No silver bells are heard. The westering moon
Lights the pale floors of caverns by the sea.
Wet weed hangs on the rock. In shimmering pools
Left on the rocks by the receding sea
Starfish slowly turn their white and brown
Or writhe on the naked rocks and drown.
Do sea-girls haunt these caves--do we hear faint singing?
Do we hear from under the sea a faint bell ringing?
Was that a white hand lifted among the bubbles
And fallen softly back?
No, these shores and caverns are all silent,
Dead in the moonlight; only, far above,
On the smooth contours of these headlands,
White amid the eternal black,
One by one in the moonlight there
Neighing far off on the haunted air
The unicorns come down to the sea.
4
Senlin, walking before us in the sunlight,
Bending his small legs in a peculiar way,
Goes to his work with thoughts of the universe.
His hands are in his pockets, he smokes his pipe,
He is happily conscious of roofs and skies;
And, without turning his head, he turns his eyes
To regard white horses drawing a small white hearse.
The sky is brilliant between the roofs,
The windows flash in the yellow sun,
On the hard pavement ring the hoofs,
The light wheels softly run.
Bright particles of sunlight fall,
Quiver and flash, gyrate and burn,
Honey-like heat flows down the wall,
The white spokes dazzle and turn.
Senlin, walking before us in the sunlight,
Regards the hearse with an introspective eye.
'Is it my childhood there,' he asks,
'Sealed in a hearse and hurrying by?'
He taps his trowel against a stone;
The trowel sings with a silver tone.
'Nevertheless I know this well.
Bury it deep and toll a bell,
Bury it under land or sea,
You cannot bury it save in me.'
It is as if his soul had become a city,
With noisily peopled streets, and through these streets
Senlin himself comes driving a small white hearse . . .
'Senlin!' we cry. He does not turn his head.
But is that Senlin?--Or is this city Senlin,--
Quietly watching the burial of the dead?
Dumbly observing the cortège of its dead?
Yet we would say that all this is but madness:
Around a distant corner trots the hearse.
And Senlin walks before us in the sunlight
Happily conscious of his universe.
5
In the hot noon, in an old and savage garden,
The peach-tree grows. Its cruel and ugly roots
Rend and rifle the silent earth for moisture.
Above, in the blue, hang warm and golden fruits.
Look, how the cancerous roots crack mould and stone!
Earth, if she had a voice, would wail her pain.
Is she the victim, or is the tree the victim?
Delicate blossoms opened in the rain,
Black bees flew among them in the sunlight,
And sacked them ruthlessly; and no a bird
Hangs, sharp-eyed, in the leaves, and pecks the fruit;
And the peach-tree dreams, and does not say a word.
. . . Senlin, tapping his trowel against a stone,
Observes this tree he planted: it is his own.
'You will think it strange,' says Senlin, 'but this tree
Utters profound things in this garden;
And in its silence speaks to me.
I have sensations, when I stand beneath it,
As if its leaves looked at me, and could see;
And those thin leaves, even in windless air,
Seem to be whispering me a choral music,
Insubstantial but debonair.
"Regard," they seem to say,
"Our idiot root, which going its brutal way
Has cracked your garden wall!
Ugly, is it not?
A desecration of this place . . .
And yet, without it, could we exist at all?"
Thus, rustling with importance, they seem to me
To make their apology;
Yet, while they apologize,
Ask me a wary question with their eyes.
Yes, it is true their origin is low--
Brutish and dull and cruel . . . and it is true
Their roots have cracked the wall. But do we know
The leaves less cruel--the root less beautiful?
Sometimes it seems as if there grew
In the dull garden of my mind
A tree like this, which, singing with delicate leaves,
Yet cracks the wall with cruel roots and blind.
Sometimes, indeed, it appears to me
That I myself am such a tree . . .'
. . . And as we hear from Senlin these strange words
So, slowly, in the sunlight, he becomes this tree:
And among the pleasant leaves hang sharp-eyed birds
While cruel roots dig downward secretly.
6
Rustling among his odds and ends of knowledge
Suddenly, to his wonder, Senlin finds
How Cleopatra and Senebtisi
Were dug by many hands from ancient tombs.
Cloth after scented cloth the sage unwinds:
Delicious to see our futile modern sunlight
Dance like a harlot among these Dogs and Dooms!
First, the huge pyramid, with rock on rock
Bloodily piled to heaven; and under this
A gilded cavern, bat festooned;
And here in rows on rows, with gods about them,
Cloudily lustrous, dim, the sacred coffins,
Silver starred and crimson mooned.
What holy secret shall we now uncover?
Inside the outer coffin is a second;
Inside the second, smaller, lies a third.
This one is carved, and like a human body;
And painted over with fish and bull and bird.
Here are men walking stiffly in procession,
Blowing horns or lifting spears.
Where do they march to? Where do they come from?
Soft whine of horns is in our ears.
Inside, the third, a fourth . . . and this the artist,--
A priest, perhaps--did most to make resemble
The flesh of her who lies within.
The brown eyes widely stare at the bat-hung ceiling.
The hair is black, The mouth is thin.
Princess! Secret of life! We come to praise you!
The torch is lowered, this coffin too we open,
And the dark air is drunk with musk and myrrh.
Here are the thousand white and scented wrappings,
The gilded mask, and jeweled eyes, of her.
And now the body itself, brown, gaunt, and ugly,
And the hollow scull, in which the brains are withered,
Lie bare before us. Princess, is this all?
Something there was we asked that is not answered.
Soft bats, in rows, hang on the lustered wall.
And all we hear is a whisper sound of music,
Of brass horns dustily raised and briefly blown,
And a cry of grief; and men in a stiff procession
Marching away and softly gone.
7
'And am I then a pyramid?' says Senlin,
'In which are caves and coffins, where lies hidden
Some old and mocking hieroglyph of flesh?
Or am I rather the moonlight, spreading subtly
Above those stones and times?
Or the green blade of grass that bravely grows
Between to massive boulders of black basalt
Year after year, and fades and blows?
Senlin, sitting before us in the lamplight,
Laughs, and lights his pipe. The yellow flame
Minutely flares in his eyes, minutely dwindles.
Does a blade of grass have Senlin for a name?
Yet we would say that we have seen him somewhere,
A tiny spear of green beneath the blue,
Playing his destiny in a sun-warmed crevice
With the gigantic fates of frost and dew.
Does a spider come and spin his gossamer ladder
Rung by silver rung,
Chaining it fast to Senlin? Its faint shadow
Flung, waveringly, where his is flung?
Does a raindrop dazzle starlike down his length
Trying his futile strength?
A snowflake startle him? The stars defeat him?
Through aeons of dusk have birds above him sung?
Time is a wind, says Senlin; time, like music,
Blows over us its mournful beauty, passes,
And leaves behind a shadowy reflection,--
A helpless gesture of mist above the grasses.
8
In cold blue lucid dusk before the sunrise,
One yellow star sings over a peak of snow,
And melts and vanishes in a light like roses.
Through slanting mist, black rocks appear and glow.
The clouds flow downward, slowly as grey glaciers,
Or up to a pale rose-azure pass.
Blue streams tinkle down from snow to boulders,
From boulders to white grass.
Icicles on the pine tree melt
And softly flash in the sun:
In long straight lines the star-drops fall
One by one.
Is a voice heard while the shadows still are long,
Borne slowly down on the sparkling air?
Is a thin bell heard from the peak of silence?
Is someone among the high snows there?
Where the blue stream flows coldly among the meadows
And mist still clings to rock and tree
Senlin walks alone; and from that twilight
Looks darkly up, to see
The calm unmoving peak of snow-white silence,
The rocks aflame with ice, the rose-blue sky . . .
Ghost-like, a cloud descends from twinkling ledges,
To nod before the dwindling sun and die.
'Something there is,' says Senlin, 'in that mountain,
Something forgotten now, that once I knew . . .'
We walk before a sun-tipped peak in silence,
Our shadows descend before us, long and blue.
The lights are silenced....,
The shades are drawn...,
While waiting impatiently....,
For the dawn....,
I'm Shivering In The Dark...,
Lonely and scared....,
Shivering In The Dark...,
In the far distance...,
I hear a faint siren....,
Unlike the siren in my heart...,
Calling for you....,
While I'm shivering....,
Shivering In The Dark...,
Waiting, wondering, quivering...,
And Shivering In The Dark.
I am sitting here in the dark
I am thinking of all the pain
Forgetting all the happiness
I keep thinking that if I do it
Then I wont have to worry anymore
But then I think of why I haven’t done it
My mind searching for the answer
I find it
I haven’t done it because of people
I want to do it because of them
But they are what is keeping me alive
I feel it eating away more and more
Every time I sit here
I feel as if I can’t get out
Of this black hole of pain
I feel the cuts getting deeper
I am sitting here in the dark
Should I pull the trigger
If those dark eyes have gazed on me,
Unconscious of their power—
The glance in secret ecstasy
I've treasured many an hour.
If that soft voice, a single word
Has breathed for me to hear,
Like Heaven's entrancing airs, the chord
Resounded on my ear.
And yet, alas! too well I knew
That love—or hope—was vain,
The fountain whence delight I drew
Would end in yielding pain!
My folly and my peace at once
A moment could destroy;
It bade me every wish renounce,
And broke my dream of joy
That dark Dweller in Braj
Is my only refuge.
O my companion,
Worldly comfort is an illusion,
As soon you get it, it goes.
I have chosen the Indestructible for my refuge,
Him whom the snake of death
Will not devour.
My Beloved dwells in my heart,
I have actually seen that Abode of Joy.
Mira's Lord is Hari, the Indestructible.
My Lord, I have taken refuge with Thee,
Thy slave.
The bird with the dark plumes in my blood,
That never for one moment however I patched my truces
Consented to make peace with the people,
It is pitiful now to watch her pleasure In a breath of
tempest
Breaking the sad promise of spring.
Are these that morose hawk's wings, vaulting, a mere
mad swallow's,
The snow-shed peak, the violent precipice?
Poor outlaw that would not value their praise do you
prize their blame?
"Their liking" she said "was a long creance,
But let them be kind enough to hate me that opens the
sky."
It is almost as foolish my poor falcon
To want hatred as to want love; and harder to win.
Submitted by Holt
Im lost in my own dark little world,
it has four walls,
a window,
& a door,
Its forever 3am and sleep escapes me once more,
Im doomed to lie here,
with only my conscious as comfort,
& the dark as my friend,
Only i know whats said in the dark,
whats done in the dark,
Im left to myself in the dark,
The sandman,
he is no saviour,
for he has not come tonight,
now i must seek the safety of day,
of light,
Only hell is alike,
with purgatory for dessert,
I can only hope,
for sweet somnium,
Tonight...
The dark cloud.
It sits around your head
or inside it, more like.
Around your mind,
or inside it.
Around your heart,
or inside it.
Does it reach your knees?
Seems like it, some days.
Your toenails perhaps?
If you let it, it has a voice.
Please don’t listen to it;
that’s really dangerous;
it makes general statements
as if it knows you better than you know yourself
like, ‘your…’ - no, it claims to  BE you -
so, it’s ‘MY life is pointless..’
Have you noticed, it’s
never in front of you,
always somewhere behind you,
whispering over your shoulder
so on a bad day, it’s there in the bed with you
the moment you awake; not of course
in kissing range, that might be fun – but behind you,
murmuring in a bedly voice
‘WE are really down this morning aren’t WE? ’
or it catches up with you in the bathroom
or a bit later, like when you review the day’s appointments
or start out for work.
The First Aid for depression is of course well known
(to everyone else, at some other time…) :
put some music on, sing in the shower,
sit in the brightest light,
toast your hidden beautiful self
in orange juice; take some vigorous exercise,
seek out good company in
someone or something; be
good company yourself, for someone else..
they all work, for a time; but don’t you wish
for the classic fairy tale encounter –
there you are walking through the dark wood
of the dark cloud, and suddenly
the monster springs out in front of you
in all its horror; for the first time
you meet it face to face; it’s
terrifying, but a curious relief:
now you know it’s not you after all,
but something else; you look it in the eye,
you don’t retreat, but march towards it,
say Boo (for linguistic reasons, rather abstruse)
and as you get nearer and nearer to it, the monster
gets smaller and smaller, until…
and then, marching back
triumphant with a spring in your step,
you may feel like
nailing it with a poem, to say
wow I’ve survived;
have a great day!
There is an orb that mocked the lore of sages
Long time with mystery of strange unrest;
The steadfast law that rounds the starry ages
Gave doubtful token of supreme behest.
But they who knew the ways of God unchanging,
Concluded some far influence unseen --
Some kindred sphere through viewless ethers ranging,
Whose strong persuasions spanned the void between.
And knowing it alone through perturbation
And vague disquiet of another star,
They named it, till the day of revelation,
"The Dark Companion" -- darkly guessed afar.
But when, through new perfection of appliance,
Faith merged at length in undisputed sight,
The mystic mover was revealed to science,
No Dark Companion, but -- a speck of light.
No Dark Companion, but a sun of glory;
No fell disturber, but a bright compeer;
The shining complement that crowned the story;
The golden link that made the meaning clear.
Oh, Dark Companion, journeying ever by us,
Oh, grim Perturber of our works and ways --
Oh, potent Dread, unseen, yet ever nigh us,
Disquieting all the tenor of our days --
Oh, Dark Companion, Death, whose wide embraces
O'ertake remotest change of clime and skies --
Oh, Dark Companion, Death, whose grievous traces
Are scattered shreds of riven enterprise --
Thou, too, in this wise, when, our eyes unsealing,
The clearer day shall change our faith to sight,
Shalt show thyself, in that supreme revealing,
No Dark Companion, but a thing of light.
No ruthless wrecker of harmonious order;
No alien heart of discord and caprice;
A beckoning light upon the Blissful Border;
A kindred element of law and peace.
So, too, our strange unrest in this our dwelling,
The trembling that thou joinest with our mirth,
Are but thy magnet-communings compelling
Our spirits farther from the scope of earth.
So, doubtless, when beneath thy potence swerving,
'Tis that thou lead'st us by a path unknown,
Our seeming deviations all subserving
The perfect orbit round the central throne.
The night wind moans. The Austral wilds are round me.
The loved who live -- ah, God! how few they are!
I looked above; and heaven in mercy found me
This parable of comfort in a star.
A three-day-long rain from the east--
an terminable talking, talking
of no consequence--patter, patter, patter.
Hand in hand little winds
blow the thin streams aslant.
Warm. Distance cut off. Seclusion.
A few passers-by, drawn in upon themselves,
hurry from one place to another.
Winds of the white poppy! there is no escape!--
An interminable talking, talking,
talking . . .it has happened before.
Backward, backward, backward.
Dark is the forest and deep, and overhead
Hang stars like seeds of light
In vain, though not since they were sown was bred
Anything more bright.
And evermore mighty multitudes ride
About, nor enter in;
Of the other multitudes that dwell inside
Never yet was one seen.
The forest foxglove is purple, the marguerite
Outside is gold and white,
Nor can those that pluck either blossom greet
The others, day or night.
Who was there had seen us
Wouldn't bid him run?
Heavy lay between us
All our sires had done.
There he was, a-springing
Of a pious race,
Setting hags a-swinging
In a market-place;
Sowing turnips over
Where the poppies lay;
Looking past the clover,
Adding up the hay;
Shouting through the Spring song,
Clumping down the sod;
Toadying, in sing-song,
To a crabbed god.
There I was, that came of
Folk of mud and name-
I that had my name of
Them without a name.
Up and down a mountain
Streeled my silly stock;
Passing by a fountain,
Wringing at a rock;
Devil-gotten sinners,
Throwing back their heads,
Fiddling for their dinners,
Kissing for their beds.
Not a one had seen us
Wouldn't help him flee.
Angry ran between us
Blood of him and me.
How shall I be mating
Who have looked above-
Living for a hating,
Dying of a love?
Dark hills at evening in the west,
Where sunset hovers like a sound
Of golden horns that sang to rest
Old bones of warriors under ground,
Far now from all the bannered ways
Where flash the legions of the sun,
You fade--as if the last of days
Were fading, and all wars were done.
And now, when merry winds do blow,
And rain makes trees look fresh,
An overpowering staleness holds
This mortal flesh.
Though well I love to feel the rain,
And be by winds well blown --
The mystery of mortal life
Doth press me down.
And, In this mood, come now what will,
Shine Rainbow, Cuckoo call;
There is no thing in Heaven or Earth
Can lift my soul.
I know not where this state comes from --
No cause for grief I know;
The Earth around is fresh and green,
Flowers near me grow.
I sit between two fair rose trees;
Red roses on my right,
And on my left side roses are
A lovely white.
The little birds are full of joy,
Lambs bleating all the day;
The colt runs after the old mare,
And children play.
And still there comes this dark, dark hour --
Which is not borne of Care;
Into my heart it creeps before
I am aware.
Where a faint light shines alone,
Dwells a Demon I have known.
Most of you had better say
"The Dark House," and go your way.
Do not wonder if I stay.
For I know the Demon's eyes
And their lure that never dies.
Banish all your fond alarms,
For I know the foiling charms
Of her eyes and of her arms,
And I know that in one room
Burns a lamp as in a tomb;
And I see the shadow glide,
Back and forth, of one denied
Power to find herself outside.
There he is who was my friend,
Damned, he fancies, to the end--
Vanquished, ever since a door
Closed, he thought, for evermore
On the life that was before.
And the friend who knows him best
Sees him as he sees the rest
Who are striving to be wise
While a Demon's arms and eyes
Hold them as a web would flies.
All the words of all the world,
Aimed together, and then hurled,
Would be stiller in his ears
Than a closing of still shears
On a thread made out of years.
But there lives another sound,
More compelling, more profound;
There's a music, so it seems,
That assuages and redeems,
More than reason, more than dreams.
There's a music yet unheard
By the creature of the word,
Though it matters little more
Than a wave-wash on the shore--
Till a Demon shuts a door.
So, if he be very still
With his Demon, and one will,
Murmurs of it may be blown
To my friend who is alone
In a room that I have known.
After that from everywhere
Singing life will find him there;
And my friend, again outside,
Will be living, having died.
Dusk in the rain-soaked garden,
And dark the house within.
A door creaked: someone was early
To watch the dawn begin.
But he stole away like a thief
In the chilly, star-bright air:
Though the house was shuttered for slumber,
He had left one wakeful there.
Nothing moved in the garden.
Never a bird would sing,
Nor shake and scatter the dew from the boughs
With shy and startled wing.
But when that lover had passed the gate
A quavering thrush began...
‘Come back; come back!’ he shrilled to the heart
Of the passion-plighted man.
I am a boy with mix emotion
I have no friends
I have parents but they don't want me
As I stay in the shadows no one to guide me
I want to have a future only for me
So if you think I am crazy let me be
My life is filled with sorrow and anger
No good memories to remember
Life is a wondeful thing brought to you and me
But for me it's a burden that will not be taken
A burden that I will carry from this day forward
My life is really not worth telling
So please let me be
I am a boy with no family
Just a dark life and me
So if you think im crazy let me be
This is my life story
Not for you but for me
Thick overhead
clouds of the monsoon,
a delight to this feverish heart.
Season of rain,
season of uncontrolled whispers---the Dark One's returning!
O swollen heart,
O sky brimming with moisture---
tongued lightning first
and then thunder,
convulsive spatters of rain
and then wind, chasing the summertime heat.
Mira says: Dark One,
I've waited---
it's time to take my songs
into the street.
Everything looks different in the dark
Sometimes I imagine that things that are standing still are moving
And they are not; it is only in my mind
The dark sometimes can be frightening
The dark is like a burned paint
The dark must grieve alone for its lost friend
No one around to hear its silence
But the silence so peaceful that tears the heart
I look back as I am walking to see if anyone is following me
But thanks god no one is
Only the sound of my footsteps I hear
The trees in the dark looks strange to me, I only see a dark shadow
The dark is here
I like the dark
The dark comes and goes
The darl is good
The dark is dark
Like I like it
When the dark is here
I am happy
The dark is here
in a village
soldiers have hunted,
borne behind doors
that have been kicked open
to drain the blood and flesh
of its nutrients, its life,
has left me
in this home of captive breeding,
stripped in the buffer zone of womanhood.
But thinking
that on that day,
I could have also died by a bullet,
I crawled and crawled
away from that house
to the foot of a cypress,
as desperate as one was,
to be left for dead.
____________________
It's borne in that room
where one woman lies
in a marshland of linens, and bedsprings
that poke through the mattress
like stalks of cattail;
borne in a runoff
of placenta and amniotic fluid,
tainting her own milk and blood.
But on that day,
she had taken the infant
from her womb, brushed his head
with fingers as light as feathers,
and snapped it back
like the cattail dies back in autumn
with thousands of seeds
blown to the wind—
thousands more
than deemed too many.
1       A startled stag, the blue-grey Night,
2           Leaps down beyond black pines.
3       Behind--a length of yellow light--
4           The hunter's arrow shines:
5       His moccasins are stained with red,
6           He bends upon his knee,
7       From covering peaks his shafts are sped,
8       The blue mists plume his mighty head,--
9           Well may the swift Night flee!
10     The pale, pale Moon, a snow-white doe,
11         Bounds by his dappled flank:
12     They beat the stars down as they go,
13         Like wood-bells growing rank.
14     The winds lift dewlaps from the ground,
15         Leap from the quaking reeds;
16     Their hoarse bays shake the forests round,
17     With keen cries on the track they bound,--
18         Swift, swift the dark stag speeds!
19     Away! his white doe, far behind,
20         Lies wounded on the plain;
21     Yells at his flank the nimblest wind,
22         His large tears fall in rain;
23     Like lily-pads, small clouds grow white
24         About his darkling way;
25     From his bald nest upon the height
26     The red-eyed eagle sees his flight;
27     He falters, turns, the antlered Night,--
28         The dark stag stands at bay!
29     His feet are in the waves of space;
30         His antlers broad and dun
31     He lowers; he turns his velvet face
32         To front the hunter, Sun;
33     He stamps the lilied clouds, and high
34         His branches fill the west.
35     The lean stork sails across the sky,
36     The shy loon shrieks to see him die,
37         The winds leap at his breast.
38     Roar the rent lakes as thro' the wave
39         Their silver warriors plunge,
40     As vaults from core of crystal cave
41         The strong, fierce muskallunge;
42     Red torches of the sumach glare,
43         Fall's council-fires are lit;
44     The bittern, squaw-like, scolds the air;
45     The wild duck splashes loudly where
46         The rustling rice-spears knit.
47     Shaft after shaft the red Sun speeds:
48         Rent the stag's dappled side,
49     His breast, fanged by the shrill winds, bleeds,
50         He staggers on the tide;
51     He feels the hungry waves of space
52         Rush at him high and blue;
53     Their white spray smites his dusky face,
54     Swifter the Sun's fierce arrows race
55         And pierce his stout heart thro'.
56     His antlers fall; once more he spurns
57         The hoarse hounds of the day;
58     His blood upon the crisp blue burns,
59         Reddens the mounting spray;
60     His branches smite the wave--with cries
61         The loud winds pause and flag--
62     He sinks in space--red glow the skies,
63     The brown earth crimsons as he dies,
64         The strong and dusky stag.
They see you as they see you,
A poor farmer with no name,
Ploughing cloudward, sowing the wind
With squalls of gulls at the day's end.
To me you are Prytherch, the man
Who more than all directed my slow
Charity where there was need.
There are two hungers, hunger for bread
And hunger of the uncouth soul
For the light's grace. I have seen both,
And chosen for an indulgent world's
Ear the story of one whose hands
Have bruised themselves on the locked doors
Of life; whose heart, fuller than mine
Of gulped tears, is the dark well
From which to draw, drop after drop,
The terrible poetry of his kind.
There is a dark cloud over my head
With every move i make, every step i take
It keeps following me
Lord you know i want to free
Dark clouds, dark clouds, dark clouds
Now as the rain begins to fall, i feel so small
I'm always getting wet with the rain of prejudice
Look there is a mist of discrimation
And the fog of injustice
Dark clouds, dark clouds, dark clouds hanging over my head
Lord you know i want to be free
It's hard to look through the thickness of the clouds
Standing under the dark clouds the sun never shines
As my eyes glist for a brighter tomorrow
My sisters and brothers are filled with sorrow
Dark clouds, dark clouds, dark clouds
Why do they keep following me
Lord you know i want to be free
This cloud kept many of our people down
This cloud has kept us bound
Our head hanging to the ground
A cloud of sorrow and pain
A cloud of loneiness and despair
Wondering does anyone care
Now as i look beyond the horizon with the telescope
Of my mind
It was fantastic what i've found
If you can look beyond your dark cloud, sorrow and pain
You will see a star shining so near, yet it seems so far
Beyond your dark clouds, there is a galaxy of deterination
There is a star of i am somebody and it's shining
For the whole world to see
Let's load up our spaceship of education
Put our satellite into orbit, let's speed on to culture
Proudness
Gravitation of ignorance will never hold me down
There's no time for malfunction in our dreams
For many years our focus was ecliped
Eclipse we were inferior, eclipse we couldn't make it
Couldn't go to the same school
We can see clearly now my sisters and brothers
Let's walk in the light, let's fuel up with knowledge
Independence, awareness
Yes use the telescope of your mind
The satellite of youe soul
The orbit of your heart
To reach that certain star, no matter how near or far
Through the Dark Sod—as Education—
The Lily passes sure—
Feels her white foot—no trepidation—
Her faith—no fear—
Afterward—in the Meadow—
Swinging her Beryl Bell—
The Mold-life—all forgotten—now—
In Ecstasy—and Dell—
you are the one
i am lit for.
Come with your rod
that twists
and is a serpent.
i am the bush.
i am burning
i am not consumed.
Traveling through the dark I found a deer
dead on the edge of the Wilson River road.
It is usually best to roll them into the canyon:
that road is narrow; to swerve might make more dead.
By glow of the tail-light I stumbled back of the car
and stood by the heap, a doe, a recent killing;
she had stiffened already, almost cold.
I dragged her off; she was large in the belly.
My fingers touching her side brought me the reason--
her side was warm; her fawn lay there waiting,
alive, still, never to be born.
Beside that mountain road I hesitated.
The car aimed ahead its lowered parking lights;
under the hood purred the steady engine.
I stood in the glare of the warm exhaust turning red;
around our group I could hear the wilderness listen.
I thought hard for us all--my only swerving--,
then pushed her over the edge into the river.
Under her dark veil she wrung her hands.
"Why are you so pale today?"
"Because I made him drink of stinging grief
Until he got drunk on it.
How can I forget? He staggered out,
His mouth twisted in agony.
I ran down not touching the bannister
And caught up with him at the gate.
I cried: 'A joke!
That's all it was. If you leave, I'll die.'
He smiled calmly and grimly
And told me: 'Don't stand here in the wind.' "
We grow accustomed to the Dark -
When light is put away -
As when the Neighbor holds the Lamp
To witness her Goodbye -
A Moment -  We uncertain step
For newness of the night -
Then -  fit our Vision to the Dark -
And meet the Road -  erect -
And so of larger -  Darknesses -
Those Evenings of the Brain -
When not a Moon disclose a sign -
Or Star -  come out -  within -
The Bravest -  grope a little -
And sometimes hit a Tree
Directly in the Forehead -
But as they learn to see -
Either the Darkness alters -
Or something in the sight
Adjusts itself to Midnight -
And Life steps almost straight.
When the dark comes down, oh, the wind is on the sea
With lisping laugh and whimper to the red reef's threnody,
The boats are sailing homeward now across the harbor bar
With many a jest and many a shout from fishing grounds afar.
So furl your sails and take your rest, ye fisher folk so brown,
For task and quest are ended when the dark comes down.
When the dark comes down, oh, the landward valleys fill
Like brimming cups of purple, and on every landward hill
There shines a star of twilight that is watching evermore
The low, dim lighted meadows by the long, dim-lighted shore,
For there, where vagrant daisies weave the grass a silver crown,
The lads and lassies wander when the dark comes down.
When the dark comes down, oh, the children fall asleep,
And mothers in the fisher huts their happy vigils keep;
There's music in the song they sing and music on the sea,
The loving, lingering echoes of the twilight's litany,
For toil has folded hands to dream, and care has ceased to frown,
And every wave's a lyric when the dark comes down.
Wings of dark evenly spread,
Flatter slowly around my head.
Everything is deepening gloom
A Foreboding of my very doom.
Falling deeper every day,
Unable to see my weary way.
Sinking slowly into the mires,
No warmth from earthly fires.
No hope as darkness takes it hold,
Squeezed into this my depressive mould.
I see no light in this perpetual dark,
Utter sadness has cancelled my human spark.
Please put an end to this bitter struggle,
I can no longer with life's hopes juggle,
Leave me to my self-pity and despair.
A ghost of myself I am no longer there.
o
Huge vapours brood above the clifted shore,
Night on the ocean settles dark and mute,
Save where is heard the repercussive roar
Of drowsy billows on the rugged foot
Of rocks remote; or still more distant tone
Of seamen in the anchored bark that tell
The watch relieved; or one deep voice alone
Singing the hour, and bidding "Strike the bell!"
All is black shadow but the lucid line
Marked by the light surf on the level sand,
Or where afar the ship-lights faintly shine
Like wandering fairy fires, that oft on land
Misled the pilgrim--such the dubious ray
That wavering reason lends in life's long darkling way.
o
solitude stands in the bar door
the place i go to find her
her lips like wine
why don't i love you more?
i could answer you call everyday
but i fear you
your dark side
the last few trists have been wonderful
your dark side
but we've never talked this much before
perhaps i only had to strike up the conversation
or listen to your thoughts
your dark side
She'll love you 'til her dying day,
and just to prove it
she'll take it out regularly on her Mom,
frequently on her sisters,
and later, sometimes on her partner.
You got yourself a deal.
A tattered coolie who was born in a leap year that comes home after a strenuous day's work?
He loves his coquetry daughter.
Her mother has disappeared when she was an infant.
He thinks that he has to make a cordon to protect her from the ruffian the apothecary's son.
His wife eloped through this rickety fence and he is scared of his precious daughter's future.
He dreams one day his daughter goes right of the passage with rituals.
But who knows and how long this skeleton survives with his sing-song?
Although she is moving out
She'll never be far away
She'll always live here with me
In my heart each day
Hopefully I taught her
The right things along the way
To help her make the right decisions
Each and every day
The most important thing
That she should know
That if things don't work out
She always has a place to go
Though she no longer lives here
This will always be her home
The warm and kindest place
Her heart has ever known
A place where the welcome mat
Is always put out
A place that she can run to
When she's filled with doubt
It's so very hard to let her go
But I know that I must
I have so much faith in her
And a world of trust
I know she's smart enough
To make it on her own
It's hard to admit
My little girl has finally grown
I hope she knows in her heart
Just how much I care
Because  every time she needed me
I always tried to be there
I hope she knows if life gets tough
And she should need a friend
That she can always count on me
Until the very end
It's never very easy
Watching someone you love leave
I know that I must be strong
But silently I'll grieve
Someone who's been around
Morning, noon and night
No longer having her here
Just will not seem right
But she knows I love her
With all of my heart
And it's that love
That will never let us part
12-16-08/RJH
A fool I was to sleep at noon,
And wake when night is chilly
Beneath the comfortless cold moon;
A fool to pluck my rose too soon,
A fool to snap my lily.
My garden-plot I have not kept;
Faded and all-forsaken,
I weep as I have never wept:
Oh it was summer when I slept,
It's winter now I waken.
Talk what you please of future spring
And sun-warm'd sweet to-morrow:
Stripp'd bare of hope and everything,
No more to laugh, no more to sing,
I sit alone with sorrow.
(Dedicated to Bww and his 7 yr. Old daughter)
A daughter is beauty at its finest.
Heart of an angel, soul so pure, and sweet.
Daughters are one of God's most precious gifts that he has bestowed upon the world.
Angels in Heaven do not compare to thine beauty, and grace my ever so beautiful, and lovely  daughter.
Seeing you at birth brought more joy to me
than all the money in the world could ever do.
You are morning, bright, and shining,
you are noon, you reside at the highest point in my heart,
you are the dew kissed night.
You are my daughter, heart, and soul.
That evening jogging on the beach with my friends
miles and miles away from home i was alone
the sea was rolling and unrolling its carpet of blue and grey
with what was a milk-border of foam
rolling and unrolling it endlessly or so it seemed
a score of seagulls on the shore flapped their wings
starchwhite some picking morsels from the sand
jogging on the beach that evening miles and miles
away from home i ran into a dream
a little challenged girl in knickers and sportshirt
was carried by the waves to the shore
and as she stepped on the beach i held her hand
she walked with me her puny feet at every step
battling with the sand her head swayed sideward
with the breeze.
she clapped her hands now and then and broke
into an incoherent song seemingly happy walking the beach
i was happy too holding her hand that evening
jogging on the beach till the shout of friends behind
woke me up
alone in my room that night i felt disturbed
sleep was long in coming... waking up at morn
i learnt my TV had been on whole night!
Frail the white rose and frail are
Her hands that gave
Whose soul is sere and paler
Than time's wan wave.
Rosefrail and fair -- yet frailest
A wonder wild
In gentle eyes thou veilest,
My blueveined child.
Your late kind Gift let me restore;
For I must never wear it more.
My Mother cries, ``What's here to do?
``A Crimson Velvet Cap for you!
``If to these Heights so soon you climb,
``You'll wear a Coachman's Cap in time:
``Perhaps on Palfry pace along,
``With ruffled Shirt, and Tete--Moutton;
``Banish the Woman from your Face,
``And let the Rake supply the Place;
``Delighted see the People stare,
``And ask each other what you are?
If she goes on to this dull Tune,
Poor I must be a Quaker soon.
She'll scarcely let me wear a Knot;
But keeps me like a Hottentot;
Says, Dressing plain, at small Expence,
Shews better Taste, and better Sense.
I'd take her Judgment, I confess,
Sooner in any Thing, than Dress;
A Science, which she little knows,
Who only huddles on her Cloaths.
This Day, to please my Brother Con.
She let me put your Present on;
And when she saw me very glad,
Cry'd out, She looks like one that's mad!
``Know, Girl, (says she) that Affectation
``Suits only those in higher Station;
``Who plead Prescription for their Rule,
``Whene'er they please to play the Fool:
``But that it best becomes us Cits,
``To dress like People in their Wits.''
Having a new friend in our
land,
To her, we extend our hand.
My family, is waiting, to see
you there
To place a flower, in your
hair..
Your house, number one, in
the row,
Surrounded by lots of mistletoe.
Decorated with candy kisses,
For a special little misses.
You'll meet Snow White,
Tinker Bell too,
They'll come out, and play,
with you.
You can join our fairy clan
Play in our family band.
Dance around our fairy ring,
Enjoy yourself, laugh and
sing.
Yarrow, will help you too,
Make sure your dreams
come true.
So welcome to our fairy
land,
Little Princess, from far
away land..
TO
SWEET DAUGHTER OF AFZAL SHAUQ
© Heather Burns
Note of thanks of Afzal Shauq to Heather wilkins
Thanks dear heather for your love tribute to my litle Tiny daughter Hadeel Breshna afzal Khan (Sakani Hadeel) ... afzal shauq
At 15, taking a stroll with my mother
On a cool summer night after dinner,
Ma, one question always nags my mind
What is it she softly asked, my child?
How can one spend a life time with one man?
Doesn’t it get boring after a short span?
As we sat on the bench, she looked at me
Yes, it needs commitment we don’t foresee.
In the first flush of love when you are getting acquainted
You love everything as you are smitten and infatuated.
But slowly it begins to sink that nobody is perfect
We have feet of clay, disillusioned you come to accept.
But as you come to know each other better,
And are growing up and raising a family together.
You are overcome with love, respect and acceptance
And enjoy each other’s company even in silence.
Her words resound, although she is no more,
As I wait for my man to come through the door.
I owe her my life and celebrate each and everyday
To this day, she soothes and shows me the way.
This is so beautiful-whether your MOM is with you or not.
Your Mother is always with you.
She's the whisper of the leaves as you walk down the street,
she's the smell of certain foods you remember,
flowers you pick and perfume that she wore,
she's the cool hand on your brow when you're not feeling well,
she's your breath in the air on a Cold winter's day.
She is the sound of the rain that lulls you to sleep,
the colors of a rainbow, she is Christmas morning.
Your Mother lives inside your laughter.
And she's crystallized in every tear drop.
A mother shows every emotion...........
Happiness, sadness, fear, jealousy, love, hate, anger,
helplessness, excitement, joy, sorrow.....
and all the while, hoping and praying you will only know
the Good feelings in life.
She's the place you came from, your first home,
and she's the map you follow with every step you take.
She's your first love, your first friend, even your first enemy,
but nothing on earth can separate you.
Not time, not space.......not even death!
made by Tempestt Cole
Is she not lovely!  Oh! when, long ago,
My own dead mother gazed upon my face,
As I stood blushing near in bridal snow,
I had not half her beauty and her grace.
Yet that fond mother praised, the world caressed,
And ONE adored me -- how shall HE who soon
Shall wear my gentle flower upon his breast,
Prize to its utmost worth the priceless boon?
Shall he not gird her, guard her, make her rich,
(Not as the world is rich, in outward show,)
With all the love and watchful kindness which
A wise and tender manhood may bestow?
Oh! I shall part from her with many tears,
My earthly treasure, pure and undefiled!
And not without a weight of anxious fears
For the new future of my darling child.
And yet -- for well I know that virgin heart --
No wifely duty will she leave undone;
Nor will her love neglect that woman's art
Which courts and keeps a love already won.
In no light girlish levity she goes
Unto the altar where they wait her now,
But with a thoughtful, prayerful heart that knows
The solemn purport of a marriage vow.
And she will keep, with all her soul's deep truth,
The lightest pledge which binds her love and life;
And she will be -- no less in age than youth
My noble child will be -- a noble wife.
And he, her lover! husband! what of him?
Yes, he will shield, I think, my bud from blight!
Yet griefs will come -- enough! my eyes are dim
With tears I must not shed -- at least, to-night.
Bless thee, my daughter! --  Oh! she is so fair! --
Heaven bend above thee with its starriest skies!
And make thee truly all thou dost appear
Unto a lover's and thy mother's eyes!
i hear the name
and my world revolves
a name for angels
beautiful beyond imagining
a name of goddesses
dressed in  silk clothes
the name of my angel
wonderful beyond creation
a name for my daughter
if ever i have one
to light my world
as it does at the moment
for truly its a name for angels
Thou's welcome, wean; mishanter fa' me,
If thoughts o' thee, or yet thy mammie,
Shall ever daunton me or awe me,
My sweet wee lady,
Or if I blush when thou shalt ca' me
Tyta or daddie.
Tho' now they ca' me fornicator,
An' tease my name in countra clatter,
The mair they talk, I'm kend the better,
E'en let them clash;
An auld wife's tongue's a feckless matter
To gie ane fash.
Welcome! my bonie, sweet, wee dochter,
Tho' ye come here a wee unsought for,
And tho' your comin' I hae fought for,
Baith kirk and queir;
Yet, by my faith, ye're no unwrought for,
That I shall swear!
Sweet fruit o' monie a merry dint,
My funny toil is no a' tint,
Tho' thou cam to the warl' asklent,
Which fools may scoff at;
In my last plack thy part's be in't
The better ha'f o't.
Tho' I should be the waur bestead,
Thou's be as braw and bienly clad,
And thy young years as nicely bred
Wi' education,
As onie brat o' wedlock's bed,
In a' thy station.
Wee image o' my bonie Betty,
As fatherly I kiss and daut thee,
As dear and near my heart I set thee
Wi' as gude will
As a' the priests had seen me get thee
That's out o' hell.
Lord grant that thou may aye inherit
Thy mither's person, grace, an' merit,
An' thy poor, worthless daddy's spirit,
Without his failins,
'Twill please me mair to see thee heir it,
Than stockit mailens.
For if thou be what I wad hae thee,
And tak the counsel I shall gie thee,
I'll never rue my trouble wi' thee -
The cost nor shame o't,
But be a loving father to thee,
And brag the name o't.
ONCE more the storm is howling, and half hid
Under this cradle-hood and coverlid
My child sleeps on.  There is no obstacle
But Gregory's wood and one bare hill
Whereby the haystack- and roof-levelling wind.
Bred on the Atlantic, can be stayed;
And for an hour I have walked and prayed
Because of the great gloom that is in my mind.
I have walked and prayed for this young child an hour
And heard the sea-wind scream upon the tower,
And-under the arches of the bridge, and scream
In the elms above the flooded stream;
Imagining in excited reverie
That the future years had come,
Dancing to a frenzied drum,
Out of the murderous innocence of the sea.
May she be granted beauty and yet not
Beauty to make a stranger's eye distraught,
Or hers before a looking-glass, for such,
Being made beautiful overmuch,
Consider beauty a sufficient end,
Lose natural kindness and maybe
The heart-revealing intimacy
That chooses right, and never find a friend.
Helen being chosen found life flat and dull
And later had much trouble from a fool,
While that great Queen, that rose out of the spray,
Being fatherless could have her way
Yet chose a bandy-legged smith for man.
It's certain that fine women eat
A crazy salad with their meat
Whereby the Horn of plenty is undone.
In courtesy I'd have her chiefly learned;
Hearts are not had as a gift but hearts are earned
By those that are not entirely beautiful;
Yet many, that have played the fool
For beauty's very self, has charm made wisc.
And many a poor man that has roved,
Loved and thought himself beloved,
From a glad kindness cannot take his eyes.
May she become a flourishing hidden tree
That all her thoughts may like the linnet be,
And have no business but dispensing round
Their magnanimities of sound,
Nor but in merriment begin a chase,
Nor but in merriment a quarrel.
O may she live like some green laurel
Rooted in one dear perpetual place.
My mind, because the minds that I have loved,
The sort of beauty that I have approved,
Prosper but little, has dried up of late,
Yet knows that to be choked with hate
May well be of all evil chances chief.
If there's no hatred in a mind
Assault and battery of the wind
Can never tear the linnet from the leaf.
An intellectual hatred is the worst,
So let her think opinions are accursed.
Have I not seen the loveliest woman born
Out of the mouth of plenty's horn,
Because of her opinionated mind
Barter that horn and every good
By quiet natures understood
For an old bellows full of angry wind?
Considering that, all hatred driven hence,
The soul recovers radical innocence
And learns at last that it is self-delighting,
Self-appeasing, self-affrighting,
And that its own sweet will is Heaven's will;
She can, though every face should scowl
And every windy quarter howl
Or every bellows burst, be happy Still.
And may her bridegroom bring her to a house
Where all's accustomed, ceremonious;
For arrogance and hatred are the wares
Peddled in the thoroughfares.
How but in custom and in ceremony
Are innocence and beauty born?
Ceremony's a name for the rich horn,
And custom for the spreading laurel tree.
this dream is beginning in the street when at night
carefully I am looking at the more and more dark sky
and suddenly I see creatures some strange are flying
degenerated though similar to reptile-birds
there is a season starting from today, a strange man is saying,
of bats which, here are just arriving
I am looking with fear, when are landing on the pavement
it looks like the blooming lawn now with May
only there are completely different flowers here
abdomens from the thin cuticle slippery pale
they are a matter of concern - not harmless associations
and backs covered with shining feathers
black and are gleaming the same as shoes applied shoe polish to
one of them is trying already to attack me
kind of I was sentenced to the eternal penance
but my subconscious ordered me to plan
the one, entire slimy covered with thick glue
it wants to me probably to stick already forever
violently I am  pushing out and I am making a success of it
the coating on my forearm is staying
of still shining of his black wing
this situation transfixed me and  become repulsive
when with morning dawn then again I am looking into the mirror
into the window - I am pale, still empty street
-
Maria Barbara Korynt  -  Daga dream (from 09 IV/2009)
It was Earl Haldan's daughter,
She looked across the sea;
She looked across the water;
And long and loud laughed she:
'The locks of six princesses
Must be my marriage fee,
So hey bonny boat, and ho bonny boat!
Who comes a wooing me?'
It was Earl Haldan's daughter,
She walked along the sand;
When she was aware of a knight so fair,
Came sailing to the land.
His sails were all of velvet,
His mast of beaten gold,
And 'Hey bonny boat, and ho bonny boat!
Who saileth here so bold?'
'The locks of five princesses
I won beyond the sea;
I clipt their golden tresses,
To fringe a cloak for thee.
One handful yet is wanting,
But one of all the tale;
So hey bonny boat, and ho bonny boat!
Furl up thy velvet sail!'
He leapt into the water,
That rover young and bold;
He gript Earl Haldan's daughter,
He clipt her locks of gold:
'Go weep, go weep, proud maiden,
The tale is full to-day.
Now hey bonny boat, and ho bonny boat!
Sail Westward ho! away!'
Devonshire, 1854
From Westward Ho!
There was such speed in her little body,
And such lightness in her footfall,
It is no wonder her brown study Astonishes us all
Her wars were bruited in our high window.
We looked among orchard trees and beyond
Where she took arms against her shadow,
Or harried unto the pond
The lazy geese, like a snow cloud
Dripping their snow on the green grass,
Tricking and stopping, sleepy and proud,
Who cried in goose, Alas,
For the tireless heart within the little
Lady with rod that made them rise
From their noon apple-dreams and scuttle
Goose-fashion under the skies!
But now go the bells, and we are ready,
In one house we are sternly stopped
To say we are vexed at her brown study,
Lying so primly propped.
Too soon you wearied of our tears.
And then you danced with spangled feet,
Leading Belshazzar's chattering court
A-tinkling through the shadowy street.
With mead they came, with chants of shame.
DESIRE'S red flag before them flew.
And Istar's music moved your mouth
And Baal's deep shames rewoke in you.
Now you could drive the royal car;
Forget our Nation's breaking load:
Now you could sleep on silver beds.—
(Bitter and dark was our abode.)
And so, for many a night you laughed,
And knew not of my hopeless prayer,
Till God's own spirit whipped you forth
From Istar's shrine, from Istar's stair.
Darling daughter of Babylon—
Rose by the black Euphrates flood—
Again your beauty grew more dear
Than my slave's bread, than my heart's blood.
We sang of Zion, good to know,
Where righteousness and peace abide. . . .
What of your second sacrilege
Carousing at Belshazzar's side?
Once, by a stream, we clasped tired hands—
Your paint and henna washed away.
Your place, you said, was with the slaves
Who sewed the thick cloth, night and day.
You were a pale and holy maid
Toil-bound with us. One night you said:—
"Your God shall be my God until
I slumber with the patriarch dead."
Pardon, daughter of Babylon,
If, on this night remembering
Our lover walks under the walls
Of hanging gardens in the spring,
A venom comes from broken hope,
From memories of your comrade-song
Until I curse your painted eyes
And do your flower-mouth too much wrong.
Daughter of Africa
You are walking now
And tread the path
Away from me
Daughter of Africa
You are touching now
While my body is
Away from you
Daughter of Africa
You are moist now
Not knowing the stranger
Who enters you
Daughter of Africa
You sleep now
While my heart
Yearns for you
Daughter of Africa
You are dying now
And you finally remember
Me
Who cried for you.
She was seven feet tall,
with a seventeen shoe.
One eye was brown and the other blue.
Her hair was all the colours of the rainbow.
She had ruby red lips,
and a waxy complexion.
She looked like something,
the cat had dragged in,
after a bad night on the tiles.
She had a double chin,
that wobbled a bit.
Her nose looked like,
it was glued into place.
She had a pin in her ear
with a bell on the end.
It played a tune
whenever she did a whirl,
while doing the twist.
She was some girl and unfortunately for me.
She was my blind date you see.
I was glad when the evening was over,
and the band played the last tune.
I walked her home,
and watched her climb into her tomb.
We had so much fun,
scaring everyone out of their wits.
Next week we are going to do it all again.
Me and that girl, the daughter of Frank-enstein.
9 August 1995
Pair of warmest, shiny, amber eyes.
See through deceit and alluring lies.
Fairest damsel in rank and file.
A gem, a jewel, the daughter of Nile.
Cultured, enigmatic, vivacious smile.
Ready to help and go that mile.
The Nile inside dances and bubbles a song.
Like its water that means no wrong.
Deep springs well inside, twitter the birds.
The depth of heart not given to words.
Her demeanor; brings forth many a sighs.
Knows the darkest spots on MRIs.
For millennia the sphinx, a muted guard!
Patiently waited for bint e Ra'ad.
Glides the corridors and keeps her own.
In the finest tradition to pick no bone.
Skewered aside, chivalrous nouveau-riche,
Sends them packing without a glitch.
Knows her radiology and her place.
Unarmingly detaches from creed or race.
The Arabian Oryx walks the shifting dune.
A hope for the traveler is the desert moon;
that rises by the sea, in Domyat's fold.
Spreading its color in charming gold.
Ya! aiyoun'el Maha wa ghina ‘el bahar.
Aj'ab-nee ghareeb wa ghalafnee bis s'har.
Aariftee wa fahamtee qooaat'el saba.
Mawjooda fi aayee tareek wa qullo rehaa.
Qutulnee ba ayoonukee bedoon'er rehma.
Ishh hina qalm, jaamid...heeya ma fehma.!
(From the few words u spoke to me….
The few looks you sent my way….
And many many times when my eyes followed you….silently….surely…!)
Original.
Buraidah- Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
April 10,2010
(For a new found friend…. Who thinks every thing is fair in love and war….and thinks nothing of plagiarism…  ;)    ….)
DAUGHTER
A POEM BY DR. RAM SHARMA
The affection of a father is, daughter,
Sweet melody of a song is, daughter,
Live dream of every passionis, daughter,
A unique gift of universe is, daughter
Dear of dearest face is, daughter,
Don`t pluck these flowers,
Let them blossom
I AM RAISING THE THE PROBLEM OF FOETICIDE THROUGH MY POEM. WE HAVE TO PROTECT GIRLS INPLACE OF KILLING THEM
God created daughter,
With special love and care.
She is a precious treasure,
Ushers in our life luck and flair.
HE blesses them with divine nectar,
To bloom them with laugh and laughter,
Arrival of a daughter,
Showers divine pleasure.
Love and happiness she showers,
Towering Druga in her grandeur,
Vibrant preserver and protector of culture,
Future mother, wife and sister,
In all the wonders, she is the best,
Mother earth is too short to give her rest.
FROM:
DR. YOGESH SHARMA
Why is the world at peace.
This may astonish you a little but when you realise how
easily Mrs. Charles Bianco sells the work of American
painters to American millionaires you will recognize that
authorities are constrained to be relieved.  Let me tell you a
story.  A painter loved a woman.  A musician did not sing.
A South African loved books.  An American was a woman
and needed help.  Are Americans the same as incubators.
But this is the rest of the story.  He became an authority.
and some other father at the club
says, has she flown the nest yet?
and it sounds so crude
you don’t want to answer.
You’re sitting on the sofa,
she’s behind you at the table,
she’s silent, you can feel her
growing up inside. You know
you mustn’t turn and look at her –
she’ll hate you for looking her dream
in the face.
Two years ago, she’d have come to sit
beside you on the sofa,
say nothing, put her head
on your shoulder.
Now, she’s in that between place, that place between.
In the between, she lives all the opposites. Simultaneously.
The world’s never been so exciting, all-possible,
or so scary, void; and these together;
she’s never felt so strong, or so vulnerable; both;
she knows she will be somebody; feels like nobody;
she’d like to have every boy, throw them away
to prove her power; yet wait to find if
there’s just the one; she wants both of these
(she, girl to goddess, Princess now a Queen,
she owns all men, yet gives herself to one) .
She’s living simultaneously in dreams
and chill realities.
You know all this,
and cannot, must not interfere.
This morning, you felt like the ideal family,
held in a golden glow of understanding.
Tonight, she’ll dress up for the boy and the dance, gloriously,
and you’ll be torn between fatherly pride
and the feeling that you’ve never, ever known her;
share that terrible place between
where there are only opposites.
For the love of daughter
That I cherish as a father
The daughter I prayed to God for
Those many years ago
My heart is sad and lonely
In this place that I call home
We have experienced some good times
We have gone through some bad times too
For the love of a daughter
The girl I always wanted
The daughter that I love so
The one who filled my life with joy
The one that filled my heart with pride
The one who has no way of knowing
The tears that I have shed
I can only wonder what I have done
That has turned her heart so cold
For the love of a daughter
There will be forgiveness
As precious as she is
To this Father’s heart
I can only love her
As much as I can
With a convulsed help me,
she collapsed to the floor
filthy and stinking.
I'd seen it all before.
With pleading eyes and
outstreched arms she;
Urinated, deficated,
vomited and died.
(The final moments of an 18 year old heroin addict.)
Do it as daddy says,
Do that even without ask,
Do it with high expectation,
Do it better, do to… perfection.
With mouth shut,
And feet patting silently,
On these cold tiled floors.
Do it for daddy. And when asked what you’re doing?
Answer exactly as daddy asked?
But never speak up over your whisper,
Or look up at the stars,
Princess, time for bed now,
Do as you’re told.
Ok… ok… goodnight dad.
Father and daughter spend some quiet time together in the living room
Shining through the curtain is the sun
And outside is the glorious afternoon
Father reads to his daughter the poetry she loves
Father and daughter enjoy each other's company
Father takes his daughter by the hand
As they take a walk outside
Father cares for his daughter
And always wishes the very best to happen for her
I never thought I'd live
One day to see my daughter be
A Human Resources Policy Executive.
But then perhaps
My daughter’d rather
Not have a would-be poet for a father.
My daughter said something the other day
We were sitting on the front steps, talking
Someone wanted to enter the building, she stood up and said 'we're just having a father daughter moment'
My daughter is still young, only 27
And hearing her say that, my heart swelled with pride
She still wants to have moments with her father
My adult daughter still needed me
So much is said about the mother-daughter bond
But there's an even stronger bond between a father and a daughter
No matter how old she is, she's still daddy's little girl
And he always wants to be there for her
Father daughter moments last a lifetime
From playground accidents to a broken heart
You do your best to help her pain go away
Because when she's in pain, you are too
Audacious smiles
laughter ringing clear-
warm hugs and
little sudden pecks on my cheeks!
A whirlwind of a girl;
now here, gone in a flash!
endearing entreaties-
unquestioning love!
Long long hours of girlish talk-
boys, books, heroes and men!
Life, love, trust and THAT!
Confiding giggles-
while ogling the boys... ;)
summing them up, then
walking by in disdain! !
Cheering her up
when sadness strikes-
being there for her...
just in case, she asks!
Holding her hand-
without her knowing..
as only moms can do;
though she, being mine,
would know it too...! ! !
Sharing myself with her-
my fears, my joys
my secrets, and my ploys-
Ending the day in warmth
so wonderful
so fierce and filling..
Wishing each mother had
a daughter..
so like mine! !
19 June, '07
A woman weaves
her daughter's wedding
slippers that will carry
her steps into a new life.
The mother weeps alone
into her jeweled sewing box
slips red thread
around its spool,
the same she used to stitch
her daughter's first silk jacket
embroidered with turtles
that would bring luck, long life.
She remembers all the steps
taken by her daughter's
unbound quick feet:
dancing on the stones
of the yard among yellow
butterflies and white breasted sparrows.
And she grew, legs strong
body long, mind
independent.
Now she captures all eyes
with her hair combed smooth
and her hips gently
swaying like bamboo.
The woman
spins her thread
from the spool of her heart,
knotted to her daughter's
departing
wedding slippers.
When I die choose a star
and name it after me
that you may know
I have not abandoned
or forgotten you.
You were such a star to me,
following you through birth
and childhood, my hand
in your hand.
When I die
choose a star and name it
after me so that I may shine
down on you, until you join
me in darkness and silence
together.
Looking into my daughter’s eyes I read
Beneath the innocence of morning flesh
Concealed, hintings of death she does not heed.
Coldest of winds have blown this hair, and mesh
Of seaweed snarled these miniatures of hands;
The night’s slow poison, tolerant and bland,
Has moved her blood. Parched years that I have seen
That may be hers appear: foul, lingering
Death in certain war, the slim legs green.
Or, fed on hate, she relishes the sting
Of others’ agony; perhaps the cruel
Bride of a syphilitic or a fool.
These speculations sour in the sun.
I have no daughter. I desire none.
It has been ordained
and inscription etched
in bloodlines
that I transport all your dreams
through arguing rigmarole
of veins
Verandah of my days
filled with giggles of your dolls
unbought unsold
all of you is so much
all of me
Gigantic daughter of the West,
We drink to thee across the flood,
We know thee most, we love thee best,
For art thou not of British blood?
Should war's mad blast again be blown,
Permit not thou the tyrant powers
To fight thy mother here alone,
But let thy broadsides roar with ours.
Hands all round!
God the tyrant's cause confound!
To our great kinsmen of the West, my friends,
And the great name of England, round and round.
'O rise, our strong Atlantic sons,
When war against our freedom springs!
O speak to Europe through your guns!
They can be understood by kings.
You must not mix our Queen with those
That wish to keep their people fools;
Our freedom's foemen are her foes,
She comprehends the race she rules.
Hands all round!
God the tyrant's cause confound!
To our dear kinsmen of the West, my friends,
And the great cause of Freedom, round and round.'
How I loved you the day you were born
How I loved you growing into a beautiful woman
How much I wanted the best for you
Now I love what you have become
I watched you bloom like a beautiful flower
You nourished my life with your presence
You made me feel secure in my love
I am so proud of who you are
You taught me so much
Often it was not easy
We suffered in sorrow together
I was the tree…you were the strong branch
Now you have become the tree
Now, you are a mother yourself
Now a mother’s love you can see
I thank God you are a part of me forever
You are only one day older than you were yesterday
Your birthday reminds us to celebrate your life
Be joyful, be fruitful, be peaceful, and be healthy
Happy Birthday daughter…and many more to come
i looked into my daughters eyes
love and affection i could not hide.
while explaining to her what life meant to me
the tears started to roll very freely.
choked up with emotion that i could not stop
i told her what i struggled for and what i got.
the two most beautiful women in my life
my brown eyed daughter and my wife.
this is what part of life means to me
having my child and my family.
although at times i may not seem to care
for my thoughts may be elsewhere.
my ears may be deaf, and my mind far away
but my love is here to stay.
so when i hear GODS beckoning call
let it be said to one and all.
my indian spirit is with me, 'i will not fall'.
my body may die, but not my soul
for that is something that can't be put in a hole.
my body may die, but not my mind
for that will live throughout all time.
so my daughter, don't you despair
for i will always be right here.
and when you're feeling down and out
think of today and what we talked about.
let your thoughts run free and clear
and you'll feel my presence near.
' from one heart touching another.'
Shall I woo the one or other?
Both attract me--more's the pity!
Pretty is the widowed mother,
And the daughter, too, is pretty.
When I see that maiden shrinking,
By the gods I swear I'll get 'er!
But anon I fall to thinking
That the mother 'll suit me better!
So, like any idiot ass
Hungry for the fragrant fodder,
Placed between two bales of grass,
Lo, I doubt, delay, and dodder!
I want no more
Nothing
I want no more
Anything from you
Just let me be
I will not fight to please you
I just want to be me
I will not copy you
And make your same mistakes
For I have already learned from them
I want to be myself
I want to be free
I ask nothing of you
Please can you do the same
If a daughter you have, she's the plague of your life,
No peace shall you know, tho' you've buried your wife,
At twenty she mocks at the duty you taught her,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
Sighing and whining,
Dying and pining,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
When scarce in their teens, they have wit to perplex us,
With letters and lovers for ever they vex us,
While each still rejects the fair suitor you've brought her,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
Wrangling and jangling,
Flouting and pouting,
O, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
Since our Country, our God -- Oh, my Sire!
Demand that thy Daughter expire;
Since thy triumph was brought by thy vow--
Strike the bosom that's bared for thee now!
And the voice of my mourning is o'er,
And the mountains behold me no more:
If the hand that I love lay me low,
There cannot be pain in the blow!
And of this, oh, my Father! be sure--
That the blood of thy child is as pure
As the blessing I beg ere it flow,
And the last thought that soothes me below.
Though the virgins of Salem lament,
Be the judge and the hero unbent!
I have won the great battle for thee,
And my Father and Country are free!
When this blood of thy giving hath gush'd,
When the voice that thou lovest is hush'd,
Let my memory still be thy pride,
And forget not I smiled as I died!
A tar, but poorly prized,
Long, shambling, and unsightly,
Thrashed, bullied, and despised,
Was wretched JOE GOLIGHTLY.
He bore a workhouse brand;
No Pa or Ma had claimed him,
The Beadle found him, and
The Board of Guardians named him.
P'r'aps some Princess's son -
A beggar p'r'aps his mother.
HE rather thought the one,
I rather think the other.
He liked his ship at sea,
He loved the salt sea-water,
He worshipped junk, and he
Adored the First Lord's daughter.
The First Lord's daughter, proud,
Snubbed Earls and Viscounts nightly;
She sneered at Barts. aloud,
And spurned poor Joe Golightly.
Whene'er he sailed afar
Upon a Channel cruise, he
Unpacked his light guitar
And sang this ballad (Boosey):
Ballad
The moon is on the sea,
Willow!
The wind blows towards the lee,
Willow!
But though I sigh and sob and cry,
No Lady Jane for me,
Willow!
She says, "'Twere folly quite,
Willow!
For me to wed a wight,
Willow!
Whose lot is cast before the mast";
And possibly she's right,
Willow!
His skipper (CAPTAIN JOYCE),
He gave him many a rating,
And almost lost his voice
From thus expostulating:
"Lay aft, you lubber, do!
What's come to that young man, JOE?
Belay! - 'vast heaving! you!
Do kindly stop that banjo!
"I wish, I do - O lor'! -
You'd shipped aboard a trader:
ARE you a sailor or
A negro serenader?"
But still the stricken lad,
Aloft or on his pillow,
Howled forth in accents sad
His aggravating "Willow!"
Stern love of duty bad
Been JOYCE'S chiefest beauty;
Says he, "I love that lad,
But duty, damme! duty!
"Twelve months' black-hole, I say,
Where daylight never flashes;
And always twice a day
A good six dozen lashes!"
But JOSEPH had a mate,
A sailor stout and lusty,
A man of low estate,
But singularly trusty.
Says he, "Cheer hup, young JOE!
I'll tell you what I'm arter -
To that Fust Lord I'll go
And ax him for his darter.
"To that Fust Lord I'll go
And say you love her dearly."
And JOE said (weeping low),
"I wish you would, sincerely!"
That sailor to that Lord
Went, soon as he had landed,
And of his own accord
An interview demanded.
Says he, with seaman's roll,
"My Captain (wot's a Tartar)
Guv JOE twelve months' black-hole,
For lovering your darter.
"He loves MISS LADY JANE
(I own she is his betters),
But if you'll jine them twain,
They'll free him from his fetters.
"And if so be as how
You'll let her come aboard ship,
I'll take her with me now."
"Get out!" remarked his Lordship.
That honest tar repaired
To JOE upon the billow,
And told him how he'd fared.
JOE only whispered, "Willow!"
And for that dreadful crime
(Young sailors, learn to shun it)
He's working out his time;
In six months he'll have done it.
Like mother, like
daughter...
We have so much
in common.
We have so much
fun together....
I enjoyed shopping
with you.
I enjoy talking
to you....
Now that you’re
gone...
There’s a lot of
things that I miss.
But one thing is
Like mother, like daughter.
A chieftain, to the Highlands bound,
Cries, ``Boatman, do not tarry!
And I'll give thee a silver pound
To row us o'er the ferry!''--
``Now, who be ye, would cross Lochgyle,
This dark and stormy weather?''
``O, I'm the chief of Ulva's isle,
And this, Lord Ullin's daughter.--
``And fast before her father's men
Three days we've fled together,
For should he find us in the glen,
My blood would stain the heather.
``His horsemen hard behind us ride;
Should they our steps discover,
Then who will cheer my bonny bride
When they have slain her lover?''--
Out spoke the hardy Highland wight,--
``I'll go, my chief--I'm ready:--
It is not for your silver bright;
But for your winsome lady:
``And by my word! the bonny bird
In danger shall not tarry;
So, though the waves are raging white,
I'll row you o'er the ferry.''--
By this the storm grew loud apace,
The water-wraith was shrieking;
And in the scowl of heaven each face
Grew dark as they were speaking.
But still as wilder blew the wind,
And as the night grew drearer,
Adown the glen rode armèd men,
Their trampling sounded nearer.--
``O haste thee, haste!'' the lady cries,
``Though tempests round us gather;
I'll meet the raging of the skies,
But not an angry father.''--
The boat has left a stormy land,
A stormy sea before her,--
When, O! too strong for human hand,
The tempest gather'd o'er her.
And still they row'd amidst the roar
Of waters fast prevailing:
Lord Ullin reach'd that fatal shore,--
His wrath was changed to wailing.
For, sore dismay'd through storm and shade,
His child he did discover:--
One lovely hand she stretch'd for aid,
And one was round her lover.
``Come back! come back!'' he cried in grief
``Across this stormy water:
And I'll forgive your Highland chief,
My daughter!--O my daughter!''
'Twas vain: the loud waves lash'd the shore,
Return or aid preventing:
The waters wild went o'er his child,
And he was left lamenting.
A DAUGHTER IS  SPECIAL
A DAUGHTER IS DEAR
A PRECIOUS GIFT FROM ABOVE
A DAUGHTER IS A TREASURE
TO FOREVER HOLD NEAR AND LOVE
Linda, you are leaving
your old body now,
It lies flat, an old butterfly,
all arm, all leg, all wing,
loose as an old dress.
I reach out toward it but
my fingers turn to cankers
and I am motherwarm and used,
just as your childhood is used.
Question you about this
and you hold up pearls.
Question you about this
and you pass by armies.
Question you about this -
you with your big clock going,
its hands wider than jackstraws -
and you'll sew up a continent.
Now that you are eighteen
I give you my booty, my spoils,
my Mother & Co. and my ailments.
Question you about this
and you'll not know the answer -
the muzzle at the oxygen,
the tubes, the pathways,
the war and the war's vomit.
Keep on, keep on, keep on,
carrying keepsakes to the boys,
carrying powders to the boys,
carrying, my Linda, blood to
the bloodletter.
Linda, you are leaving
your old body now.
You've picked my pocket clean
and you've racked up all my
poker chips and left me empty
and, as the river between us
narrows, you do calisthenics,
that womanly leggy semaphore.
Question you about this
and you will sew me a shroud
and hold up Monday's broiler
and thumb out the chicken gut.
Question you about this
and you will see my death
drooling at these gray lips
while you, my burglar, will eat
fruit and pass the time of day.
Mother and daughter,
Are very close,
They are best friends,
And can be enemy's sometimes,
They laugh and cry,
Call each other names,
And mess around,
And there still as close as ever,
Nothing will ruin their mother and daughter relationship,
Not even boys,
They may keep secrets,
From one another, but there still there,
to care and help,
their still mother and daughter.
Wrote about a mother and daughter love
I
Young laughters, and my music! Aye till now
The voice can reach no blending minors near;
'Tis the bird's trill because the spring is here
And spring means trilling on a blossomy bough;
'Tis the spring joy that has no why or how,
But sees the sun and hopes not nor can fear--
Spring is so sweet and spring seems all the year.
Dear voice, the first-come birds but trill as thou.
Oh music of my heart, be thus for long:
Too soon the spring bird learns the later song;
Too soon a sadder sweetness slays content
Too soon! There comes new light on onward day,
There comes new perfume o'er a rosier way:
Comes not again the young spring joy that went.
ROME, November 1881.
II
That she is beautiful is not delight,
As some think mothers joy, by pride of her,
To witness questing eyes caught prisoner
And hear her praised the livelong dancing night;
But the glad impulse that makes painters sight
Bids me note her and grow the happier;
And love that finds me as her worshipper
Reveals me each best loveliness aright.
Oh goddess head! Oh innocent brave eyes!
Oh curved and parted lips where smiles are rare
And sweetness ever! Oh smooth shadowy hair
Gathered around the silence of her brow!
Child, I'd needs love thy beauty stranger-wise:
And oh the beauty of it, being thou!
III
I watch the sweet grave face in timorous thought
Lest I should see it dawn to some unrest
And read that in her heart is youth's ill guest,
The querulous young sadness, born of nought,
That wearies of the strife it has not fought,
And finds the life it has not had unblest,
And asks it knows not what that should be best,
And till Love come has never what it sought.
But she is still. A full and crystal lake
So gives it skies their passage to its deeps
In an unruffled morn where no winds wake,
And, strong and fretless, 'stirs not, nor yet sleeps.
My darling smiles and 'tis for gladness' sake;
She hears a woe, 'tis simple tears she weeps.
IV
'Tis but a child. The quiet Juno gaze
Breaks at a trifle into mirth and glow,
Changed as a folded bud bursts into blow,
And she springs, buoyant, on some busy craze,
Or, in the rhythm of her girlish plays,
Like light upon swift waves floats to and fro,
And, whatsoe'er's her mirth, needs me to know,
And keeps me young by her young innocent ways.
Just now she and her kitten raced and sprang
To catch the daisy ball she tossed about;
Then they grew grave, and found a shady tree,
And kitty tried to see the notes she sang:
Now she flies hitherward--'Mother! Quick! Come see!
Two hyacinths in my garden almost out!'
V
Last night the broad blue lightnings flamed the sky;
We watched, our breaths caught as each burst its way,
And through its fire out-leaped the sharp white ray,
And sudden dark re-closed when it went by:
But she, that where we are will needs be nigh,
Had tired with hunting orchids half the day.
Her father thought she called us; he and I,
Half anxious, reached the bedroom where she lay.
Oh lily face upon the whiteness blent!
How calm she lay in her unconscious grace!
A peal crashed on the silence ere we went;
She stirred in sleep, a little changed her place,
'Mother,' she breathed, a smile grew on her face:
'Mother,' my darling breathed, and slept content.
VI
Sometimes, as young things will, she vexes me,
Wayward, or too unheeding, or too blind.
Like aimless birds that, flying on a wind,
Strike slant against their own familiar tree;
Like venturous children pacing with the sea,
That turn but when the breaker spurts behind
Outreaching them with spray: she in such kind
Is borne against some fault, or does not flee.
And so, may be, I blame her for her wrong,
And she will frown and lightly plead her part,
And then I bid her go. But 'tis not long:
Then comes she lip to ear and heart to heart.
And thus forgiven her love seems newly strong,
And, oh my penitent, how dear thou art!
VII
Her father lessons me I at times am hard,
Chiding a moment's fault as too grave ill,
And let some little blot my vision fill,
Scanning her with a narrow near regard.
True. Love's unresting gaze is self-debarred
From all sweet ignorance, and learns a skill,
Not painless, of such signs as hurt love's will,
That would not have its prize one tittle marred.
Alas! Who rears and loves a dawning rose
Starts at a speck upon one petal's rim:
Who sees a dusk creep in the shrined pearl's glows,
Is ruined at once: 'My jewel growing dim!'
I watch one bud that on my bosom blows,
I watch one treasured pearl for me and him.
VIII
A little child she, half defiant came
Reasoning her case--'twas not so long ago--
'I cannot mind your scolding, for I know
However bad I were you'd love the same.'
And I, what countering answer could I frame?
'Twas true, and true, and God's self told her so.
One does but ask one's child to smile and grow,
And each rebuke has love for its right name.
And yet, methinks, sad mothers who for years,
Watching the child pass forth that was their boast,
Have counted all the footsteps by new fears
Till even lost fears seem hopes whereof they're reft
And of all mother's good love sole is left--
Is their Love, Love, or some remembered ghost?
IX
Oh weary hearts! Poor mothers that look back!
So outcasts from the vale where they were born
Turn on their road and, with a joy forlorn,
See the far roofs below their arid track:
So in chill buffets while the sea grows black
And windy skies, once blue, are tost and torn,
We are not yet forgetful of the morn,
And praise anew the sunshine that we lack.
Oh, sadder than pale sufferers by a tomb
That say 'My dead is happier, and is more'
Are they who dare no 'is' but tell what's o'er--
Thus the frank childhood, those the lovable ways--
Stirring the ashes of remembered days
For yet some sparks to warm the livelong gloom.
X
Love's Counterfeit.
Not Love, not Love, that worn and footsore thrall
Who, crowned with withered buds and leaves gone dry,
Plods in his chains to follow one passed by,
Guerdoned with only tears himself lets fall.
Love is asleep and smiling in his pall,
And this that wears his shape and will not die
Was once his comrade shadow, Memory--
His shadow that now stands for him in all.
And there are those who, hurrying on past reach,
See the dim follower and laugh, content,
'Lo, Love pursues me, go where'er I will!'
Yet, longer gazing, some may half beseech,
'This must be Love that wears his features still:
Or else when was the moment that Love went?'
XI
Love's Mourner.
'Tis men who say that through all hurt and pain
The woman's love, wife's, mother's, still will hold,
And breathes the sweeter and will more unfold
For winds that tear it, and the sorrowful rain.
So in a thousand voices has the strain
Of this dear patient madness been retold,
That men call woman's love. Ah! they are bold,
Naming for love that grief which does remain.
Love faints that looks on baseness face to face:
Love pardons all; but by the pardonings dies,
With a fresh wound of each pierced through the breast.
And there stand pityingly in Love's void place
Kindness of household wont familiar-wise,
And faith to Love--faith to our dead at rest.
XII
She has made me wayside posies: here they stand,
Bringing fresh memories of where they grew.
As new-come travellers from a world we knew
Wake every while some image of their land,
So these whose buds our woodland breezes fanned
Bring to my room the meadow where they blew,
The brook-side cliff, the elms where wood-doves coo--
And every flower is dearer for her hand.
Oh blossoms of the paths she loves to tread,
Some grace of her is in all thoughts you bear:
For in my memories of your homes that were
The old sweet loneliness they kept is fled,
And would I think it back I find instead
A presence of my darling mingling there.
XIII
My darling scarce thinks music sweet save mine:
'Tis that she does but love me more than hear.
She'll not believe my voice to stranger ear
Is merely measure to the note and line;
'Not so,' she says; 'Thou hast a secret thine:
The others' singing's only rich, or clear,
But something in thy tones brings music near;
As though thy song could search me and divine.'
Oh voice of mine that in some day not far
Time, the strong creditor, will call his debt,
Will dull--and even to her--will rasp and mar,
Sing Time asleep because of her regret,
Be twice thy life the thing her fancies are,
Thou echo to the self she knows not yet.
CASERTA, April, 1882.
XIV
To love her as to-day is so great bliss
I needs must think of morrows almost loth,
Morrows wherein the flower's unclosing growth
Shall make my darling other than she is.
The breathing rose excels the bud I wis,
Yet bud that will be rose is sweet for both;
And by-and-by seems like some later troth
Named in the moment of a lover's kiss.
Yes, I am jealous, as of one now strange
That shall instead of her possess my thought,
Of her own self made new by any change,
Of her to be by ripening morrows brought.
My rose of women under later skies!
Yet, ah! my child with the child's trustful eyes!
XV
That some day Death who has us all for jest
Shall hide me in the dark and voiceless mould,
And him whose living hand has mine in hold,
Where loving comes not nor the looks that rest,
Shall make us nought where we are known the best,
Forgotten things that leave their track untold
As in the August night the sky's dropped gold--
This seems no strangeness, but Death's natural hest.
But looking on the dawn that is her face
To know she too is Death's seems mis-belief;
She should not find decay, but, as the sun
Moves mightier from the veil that hides his place,
Keep ceaseless radiance. Life is Death begun:
But Death and her! That's strangeness passing grief.
XVI
She will not have it that my day wanes low,
Poor of the fire its drooping sun denies,
That on my brow the thin lines write good-byes
Which soon may be read plain for all to know,
Telling that I have done with youth's brave show;
Alas! and done with youth in heart and eyes,
With wonder and with far expectancies,
Save but to say 'I knew such long ago.'
She will not have it. Loverlike to me,
She with her happy gaze finds all that's best,
She sees this fair and that unfretted still,
And her own sunshine over all the rest:
So she half keeps me as she'd have me be,
And I forget to age, through her sweet will.
XVII
And how could I grow old while she's so young?
Methinks her heart sets tune for mine to beat,
We are so near; her new thoughts, incomplete,
Find their shaped wording happen on my tongue;
Like bloom on last year's winterings newly sprung
My youth upflowers with hers, and must repeat
Old joyaunces in me nigh obsolete.
Could I grow older while my child's so young?
And there are tales how youthful blood instilled
Thawing frore Age's veins gave life new course,
And quavering limbs and eyes made indolent
Grew freshly eager with beginning force:
She so breathes impulse. Were my years twice spent,
Not burdening Age, with her, could make me chilled.
XVIII
'Tis hard that the full summer of our round
Is but the turn where winter's sign-post's writ;
That to have reached the best is leaving it;
That final loss bears date from having found.
So some proud vessel in a narrow sound
Sails at high water with the fair wind fit,
And lo! the ebb along the sandy spit,
Lower and lower till she jars, aground.
'Tis hard. We are young still but more content;
'Tis our ripe flush, the heyday of our prime;
We learn full breath, how rich of the air we are!
But suddenly we note a touch of time,
A little fleck that scarcely seems to mar;
And we know then that some time since youth went.
XIX
Life on the wane: yes, sudden that news breaks.
And yet I would 'twere suddenly and less soon;
Since no forewarning makes loss opportune.
And now I watch that slow advance Time makes:
Watch as, while silent flow spreads broad the lakes
Mid the land levels of a smooth lagoon,
One waiting, pitiful, on a tidal dune,
Aware too long before it overtakes.
Ah! there's so quick a joy in hues and sun,
And will my eyes see dim? Will vacant sense
Forget the lark, the surges on the beach?
Shall I step wearily and wish 'twere done?
Well, if it be love will not too go hence,
Love will have new glad secrets yet to teach.
XX
There's one I miss. A little questioning maid
That held my finger, trotting by my side,
And smiled out of her pleased eyes open wide,
Wondering and wiser at each word I said.
And I must help her frolics if she played,
And I must feel her trouble if she cried;
My lap was hers past right to be denied;
She did my bidding, but I more obeyed.
Dearer she is to-day, dearer and more;
Closer to me, since sister womanhoods meet;
Yet, like poor mothers some long while bereft,
I dwell on toward ways, quaint memories left,
I miss the approaching sound of pit-pat feet,
The eager baby voice outside my door.
XXI
Hardly in any common tender wise,
With petting talk, light lips on her dear cheek,
The love I mean my child will bear to speak,
Loth of its own less image for disguise;
But liefer will it floutingly devise,
Using a favourite jester's mimic pique,
Prompt, idle, by-names with their sense to seek,
And takes for language laughing ironies.
But she, as when some foreign tongue is heard,
Familiar on our lips and closely known,
We feel the every purport of each word
When ignorant ears reach empty sound alone,
So knows the core within each merry gird,
So gives back such a meaning in her own.
XXII
The brook leaps riotous with its life just found,
That freshets from the mountain rains have fed,
Beats at the boulders in its hindered bed,
And fills the valley with its triumphing sound.
The strong unthirsty tarn sunk in deep ground
Has never a sigh wherewith its wealth is said,
Has no more ripples than the May-flies tread:
Silence of waters is where they abound.
And love, whatever love, sure, makes small boast:
'Tis the new lovers tell, in wonder yet.
Oh happy need! Enriched stream's jubilant gush!
But who being spouses well have learned love's most,
Being child and mother learned not nor forget,
These in their joyfulness feel the tarn's strong hush.
XXIII
Birds sing 'I love you, love' the whole day through,
And not another song can they sing right;
But, singing done with, loving's done with quite,
The autumn sunders every twittering two.
And I'd not have love make too much ado
With sweet parades of fondness and delight,
Lest iterant wont should make caresses trite,
Love-names mere cuckoo ousters of the true.
Oh heart can hear heart's sense in senseless nought,
And heart that's sure of heart has little speech.
What shall it tell? The other knows its thought.
What shall one doubt or question or beseech
Who is assured and knows and, unbesought,
Possesses the dear trust that each gives each.
XXIV
'You scarcely are a mother, at that rate.
Only one child!' The blithe soul pitied loud.
And doubtless she, amid her household crowd,
When one brings care in another's fortunate;
When one fares forth another's at her gate.
Yea, were her first-born folded in his shroud,
Not with a whole despair would she be bowed,
She has more sons to make her heart elate.
Many to love her singly, mother theirs,
To give her the dear love of being their need,
To storm her lap by turns and claim their kiss,
To kneel around her at their bed-time prayers;
Many to grow her comrades! Some have this.
Yet I, I do not envy them indeed.
RAMSGATE, 1886.
XXV
You think that you love each as much as one,
Mothers with many nestlings 'neath your wings.
Nay, but you know not. Love's most priceless things
Have unity that cannot be undone.
You give the rays, I the englobed full sun;
I give the river, you the separate springs:
My motherhood's all my child's with all it brings--
None takes the strong entireness from her: none.
You know not. You love yours with various stress;
This with a graver trust, this with more pride;
This maybe with more needed tenderness:
I by each uttermost passion of my soul
Am turned to mine; she is one, she has the whole:
How should you know who appraise love and divide?
XXVI
Of my one pearl so much more joy I gain
As he that to his sole desire is sworn,
Indifferent what women more were born,
And if she loved him not all love were vain,
Gains more, because of her--yea, through all pain,
All love and sorrows, were they two forlorn--
Than whoso happiest in the lands of morn
Mingles his heart amid a wifely train.
Oh! Child and mother, darling! Mother and child!
And who but we? We, darling, paired alone?
Thou hast all thy mother; thou art all my own.
That passion of maternity which sweeps
Tideless 'neath where the heaven of thee hath smiled
Has but one channel, therefore infinite deeps.
XXVII
Since first my little one lay on my breast
I never needed such a second good,
Nor felt a void left in my motherhood
She filled not always to the utterest.
The summer linnet, by glad yearnings pressed,
Builds room enough to house a callow brood:
I prayed not for another child--nor could;
My solitary bird had my heart's nest.
But she is cause that any baby thing
If it but smile, is one of mine in truth,
And every child becomes my natural joy:
And, if my heart gives all youth fostering,
Her sister, brother, seems the girl or boy:
My darling makes me mother to their youth.
Among the daisies
sat the child,
looking so ever
meek and mild.
Mother sat down
by the child,
looked at her daughter
and sweetly smiled.
Picking the daisies
with the child,
from those gathered
a chain was stylized.
Around the neck
of the child,
she placed the chain
of daisies wild.
Touching the daisies
the deaf child,
looked at her mother
and sweetly smiled.
The place was buzzing, the scene was set,
People were pouring in, everything was perfect,
The decorations were delightful, the food looked appetising,
The groom was handsome, and the bride was blushing,
The father spoke so before the bride was going away,
'I want to share some thoughts and have something to say,
To the groom of how lucky you are going to be,
As you are going to spend your life with someone so dear to me,
I swear to god the day I saw her,
I knew I had an angel for a daughter,
She is so precious, the apple of my eye,
That I can’t stand to see her cry,
So special her presence has made everyday of mine,
That I wonder how fast has passed so much of time,
I still remember her first step,
And she falling asleep peacefully on my leg,
I remember watching cricket matches with her till midnight,
And how in every word of mine she took delight,
I remember her massaging my hair with oil,
I repairing the electronic instruments which she would spoil,
Our talks about income taxes and share markets,
And she seeking my advice to achieve her targets,
She trying to make her first cup of coffee,
And eagerly waiting for an approval from me,
All that’s over its hard to believe,
She is all grown up and ready to leave,
So because you are everything to her from now on,
Let me tell you she was my princess from the day she was born,
I am giving you a piece of my heart,
Take good care of her like she were your body part,
That’s all I would say before my eyes start to water,
I am giving you the sunshine of my life, my darling daughter',
After saying this the bride’s whisper he heard,
'Papa you are always my hero and the in best in the world.
A naked girl in the bath
Suds floating, eyes shining
A BIG girl riding Mr. Horsy-bike
Birthday party, green balloon
A special girl grooming Sheike
Sweat streaming, cheeks flaming
A Co-op girl in the kitchen
Baking sponges with her friend Rosie
A magic girl playing Ariel,
'Merrily, merrily shall I live now'
A gentle girl at my bedside
When I was sick with pneumonia
A grown-up girl working hard
Errol Street, massage
A beautiful thirty year old girl
Ready to fly
My daughter’s new daughter
How precious and sweet
Beautifully perfect
From her head to her feet
Ten tiny fingers
And ten tiny toes
All dressed up in lace
With a cute button nose
I look at her face
And I see her bright smile
I have to admit
Takes me back quite awhile
I remember the day
Brought my own daughter home
More precious than anything
I’d ever known
My daughter’s new daughter
How precious and sweet
Beautifully perfect
From her head to her feet
A treasure and blessings for us from our God
to have you as a  wonderful and sweet daughter
You bring us a special joy and charm
and fills happiness around our home
Your smile does brighten our days and set us free
Your hugs and kisses make our hearts melt
There is no life without you and you are everything to us
Years have gone so quickly and brought so much changes in you
But your every experiences have left us to remember you forever
We are proud to be your parents and its the best ever we have felt
Sometime you make naughtiness and we go crazy
but silently we enjoy when you tease us and others
You are the beautiful child we brought you on this world for reason
To love and teach you right from wrong and protect from sins
No matter what, God will keep us together forever
That will be the best of our family can be.
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2009 Ravi Sathasivam
my sunshine,
came to me
on a day that it poured with rain,
a little bundle so beautiful, so defenseless,
that it took my breath away,
dark grey blue eyes, that looked at me and,
wisely seemed to say,
i am here now, yours alone,
life will never be the same.
little hands that clutched my finger,
and wrenched my heart away
defiant mouth, and pink shell like lips,
always knew what to say,
through difficult times and trials,
my sunshine has spread her light,
been a little friend to me,
loved me day and night,
she sailed through life bravely and well,
God 's child she surely must be,
if ever I love someone too much
no doubt its only she
Little thought itself disturbs the mind
Thoughts of leaving dear ones or something of that kind
Shakes whole body in disbelief and remain perturbed
What would be the fate? Condition so disturbed
May it be the case of bidding farewell?
News from relatives for being unwell
Exact nature of it can’t express or tell
News so shocking …………..
It is human nature to react or forecast
Counter future plans before it takes off or blast
Well neat thinking or envisage safety plans
Relax and heaving sighs with casual glance
It augurs well with non sentimental issues
Some times we fail to catch its proper dues
May catch us unaware and off the guard
We feel being cheated of praise or reward
We are so touchy about grown up daughters
Situation remains tense when plan alters
Parent remain shocked with thought of departure
Think always of her well being and future
Tears gush almost breaking the flood gate
Uncontrolled emotions with cursing the fate
Think helplessly about the necessity of sacred bond
Waters can’t remain calm with fishes in the pond
Heart misses the beats with sad situation
Life time stay together is ruled out or out of question
She has to go with saying good bye to all
No regrets in life but respond to the call
Mothers my face and feel very lonely
Females adore more and make it homely
It is pleasant at home and one feels so lovely
Departure may be painful but must be faced bravely
This picture does the story express
Of Moses in the bulrushes.
How livelily the painter's hand
By colours makes us understand!
Moses that little infant is.
This figure is his sister. This
Fine stately lady is no less
A personage than a princess,
Daughter of Pharaoh, Egypt's king;
Whom Providence did hither bring
This little Hebrew child to save.
See how near the perilous wave
He lies exposëd in the ark,
His rushy cradle, his frail bark!
Pharaoh, king of Egypt land,
In his greatness gave command
To his slaves, they should destroy
Every new-born Hebrew boy.
This Moses was an Hebrew's son.
When he was born, his birth to none
His mother told, to none revealed,
But kept her goodly child concealed.
Three months she hid him; then she wrought
With bulrushes this ark, and brought
Him in it to this river's side,
Carefully looking far and wide
To see that no Egyptian eye
Her ark-hid treasure should espy.
Among the river-flags she lays
The child. Near him his sister stays.
We may imagine her affright,
When the king's daughter is in sight.
Soon the princess will perceive
The ark among the flags, and give
Command to her attendant maid
That its contents shall be displayed.
Within the ark the child is found,
And now he utters mournful sound.
Behold he weeps, as if he were
Afraid of cruel Egypt's heir!
She speaks, she says, 'This little one
I will protect, though he the son
Be of an Hebrew.' Every word
She speaks is by the sister heard.-
And now observe, this is the part
The painter chose to show his art.
Look at the sister's eager eye,
As here she seems advancing nigh.
Lowly she bends, says, 'Shall I go
And call a nurse to thee? I know
A Hebrew woman liveth near,
Great lady, shall I bring her here?'
See! Pharaoh's daughter answers, 'Go.'-
No more the painter's art can show.
He cannot make his figures move.-
On the light wings of swiftest love
The girl will fly to bring the mother
To be the nurse, she'll bring no other.
To her will Pharaoh's daughter say,
'Take this child from me away:
For wages nurse him. To my home
At proper age this child may come.
When to our palace he is brought,
Wise masters shall for him be sought
To train him up, befitting one
I would protect as my own son.
And Moses be a name unto him,
Because I from the waters drew him.'
Here lies, to each her parents' ruth,
Mary, the daughter of their youth;
Yet all heaven's gifts being heaven's due,
It makes the father less to rue.
At six months' end she parted hence
With safety of her innocence;
Whose soul heaven's queen, whose name she bears,
In comfort of her mother's tears,
Hath placed amongst her virgin-train:
Where, while that severed doth remain,
This grave partakes the fleshly birth;
Which cover lightly, gentle earth!
See, in the Temple rais'd by Harley's Hand,
His beauteous Off--spring at the Altar stand:
There Mortimer resigns his darling Care;
To happy Portland gives the blooming Fair.
Where had the Parent's Pray'r like Favour found?
Where soar'd so high, as from that sacred Ground?
What Bosom, but Devotion's Ardor feels,
When, at the Shrine he hallow'd, Harley kneels?
At such a Sight superior Beings pleas'd,
To higher Notes their Hallelujahs rais'd.
Who will wed the Dowager’s youngest daughter,
The Captain? filled with ale?
He moored his expected boat to a stake in the water
And stumbled on sea-legs into the Hall for mating,
Only to be seduced by her lady-in-waiting,
Round-bosomed, and not so pale.
Or the thrifty burgher in boots and fancy vest
With considered views of marriage?
By the tidy scullery maid he was impressed
Who kept that house from depreciation and dirt,
But wife does double duty and takes no hurt,
So he rode her home in his carriage.
Never the spare young scholar antiquary
Who was their next resort;
They let him wait in the crypt of the Old Library
And found him compromised with a Saxon book,
Claiming his truelove Learning kept that nook
And promised sweet disport.
Desirée (of a mother’s christening) never shall wed
Though fairest child of her womb;
“We will have revenge,” her injured Ladyship said,
“Henceforth the tightest nunnery be thy bed
By the topmost stair! When the ill-bred lovers come
We’ll say, She is not at home.”
Four-and-twenty bonny boys
Were playing at the ba,
And by it came him sweet Sir Hugh,
And he playd o'er them a'.
He kickd the ba with his right foot
And catchd it wi his knee,
And throuch-and-thro the Jew's window
He gard the bonny ba flee.
He's doen him to the Jew's castell
And walkd it round about;
And there he saw the Jew's daughter,
At the window looking out.
'Throw down the ba, ye Jew's daughter,
Throw down the ba to me!'
'Never a bit,' says the Jew's daughter,
'Till up to me come ye.'
'How will I come up? How can I come up?
How can I come to thee?
For as ye did to my auld father,
The same ye'll do to me.'
She's gane till her father's garden,
And pu'd an apple red and green;
'Twas a' to wyle him sweet Sir Hugh,
And to entice him in.
She's led him in through ae dark door,
And sae has she thro nine;
She's laid him on a dressing-table,
And stickit him like a swine.
And first came out the thick, thick blood,
And syne came out the thin;
And syne came out the bonny heart's blood;
There was nae mair within.
She's rowd him in a cake o lead,
Bade him lie still and sleep;
She's thrown him in Our Lady's draw-well,
Was fifty fathom deep.
When bells were rung, and mass was sung,
And a' the bairns came hame,
When every lady gat hame her son,
The Lady Maisry gat nane.
She's taen her mantle her about,
Her coffer by the hand,
And she's gane out to seek her son,
And wandered o'er the land.
She's doen her to the Jew's castell,
Where a' were fast asleep:
'Gin ye be there, my sweet Sir Hugh,
I pray you to me speak.'
'Gae hame, gae hame, my mither dear,
Prepare my winding-sheet,
And at the back o merry Lincoln
The morn I will you meet.'
Now Lady Maisry is gane hame,
Make him a winding-sheet,
And at the back o merry Lincoln,
The dead corpse did her meet.
And a the bells o merry Lincoln
Without men's hands were rung,
And a' the books o merry Lincoln
Were read without man's tongue,
And neer was such a burial
Sin Adam's days begun.
To the Lady Margaret Ley
Daughter to that good Earl, once President
Of England's Council, and her Treasury,
Who lived in both, unstained with gold or fee,
And left them both, more in himself content,
Till sad the breaking of that Parliament
Broke him, as that dishonest victory
At Chaeronea, fatal to liberty,
Killed with report that old man eloquent.
Though later born than to have known the days
Wherein your father flourished, yet by you,
Madam, methinks I see him living yet;
So well your words his noble virtues praise,
That all both judge you to relate them true,
And to possess them, honoured Margaret.
You are the daughter of the sea, oregano's first cousin.
Swimmer, your body is pure as the water;
cook, your blood is quick as the soil.
Everything you do is full of flowers, rich with the earth.
Your eyes go out toward the water, and the waves rise;
your hands go out to the earth and the seeds swell;
you know the deep essence of water and the earth,
conjoined in you like a formula for clay.
Naiad: cut your body into turquoise pieces,
they will bloom resurrected in the kitchen.
This is how you become everything that lives.
And so at last, you sleep, in the circle of my arms
that push back the shadows so that you can rest--
vegetables, seaweed, herbs: the foam of your dreams.
Translated by Stephen Tapscott
Submitted by Hen
You always bring me that special joy
That comes from deep inside
That every year that passes by
Your more special than before
Through every stage through every age
I love you even more.
Your a very special daughter to me
That words can describe
And I know sometimes Im so hard on you
And it hurts me to see you cry.......
I have always tried to be there for you
In every way
I'am the proudest mom by far to say.
My how the years have flown
Now look my little angel your all grown
No matter what happens
You will always be my only little girl.
Written in Illustration of a Tableau Vivant
Is she not lovely! Oh! when, long ago,
My own dead mother gazed upon my face,
As I stood blushing near in bridal snow,
I had not half her beauty and her grace.
Yet that fond mother praised, the world caressed,
And ONE adored me -- how shall HE who soon
Shall wear my gentle flower upon his breast,
Prize to its utmost worth the priceless boon?
Shall he not gird her, guard her, make her rich,
(Not as the world is rich, in outward show,)
With all the love and watchful kindness which
A wise and tender manhood may bestow?
Oh! I shall part from her with many tears,
My earthly treasure, pure and undefiled!
And not without a weight of anxious fears
For the new future of my darling child.
And yet -- for well I know that virgin heart --
No wifely duty will she leave undone;
Nor will her love neglect that woman's art
Which courts and keeps a love already won.
In no light girlish levity she goes
Unto the altar where they wait her now,
But with a thoughtful, prayerful heart that knows
The solemn purport of a marriage vow.
And she will keep, with all her soul's deep truth,
The lightest pledge which binds her love and life;
And she will be -- no less in age than youth
My noble child will be -- a noble wife.
And he, her lover! husband! what of him?
Yes, he will shield, I think, my bud from blight!
Yet griefs will come -- enough! my eyes are dim
With tears I must not shed -- at least, to-night.
Bless thee, my daughter! -- Oh! she is so fair! --
Heaven bend above thee with its starriest skies!
And make thee truly all thou dost appear
Unto a lover's and thy mother's eyes!
My daughter is God's gift to me,
Her father in the Lord.
She's my great joy, my ecstasy,
My loving God's reward.
She stands alone in her own faith,
The gift God gave to her,
From Christ the Saviour, strong to save,
Our Jesus, Yeshua...
My daughter prays by day and night,
Although some choose to laugh.
For me, such prayers are my delight
And may God light her path.
I've seen my daughter grow and grow,
This rose before my eyes.
I thank God for each truth she'll know
From God alone, who's wise.
She trusts God's Son once sacrificed...
Round to its point of view.
The Spirit who was once in Christ,
Lives in my daughter, too.
My daughter's taught God's prophecies
Are true in every part.
She's learnt that life's great mysteries
Are found within Christ's heart.
She's born of God, she's born again,
She's living in His grace.
She walks in light before all men,
Yet always seeks His face.
The Way of the Master blesses!
So many souls are won!
More blessed if each confesses
Salvation in God's Son!
Through discipline, disciples teach.
We train a child with love.
My daughter's love helps her to preach
And reach out like a dove.
I'm proud of her! She seeks the lost!
She witnesses worldwide...
The Bible matters! Count the cost
When Christ was crucified...
Denis Martindale, copyright, April 2009.
Part the First
Itt was a blind beggar, had long lost his sight,
He had a faire daughter of bewty most bright;
And many a gallant brave suiter had shee,
For none was soe comelye as pretty Bessee.
And though shee was of favor most faire,
Yett seing shee was but a poor beggars heyre,
Of ancyent housekeepers despised was shee,
Whose sonnes came as suitors to prettye Bessee.
Wherefore in great sorrow faire Bessy did say,
'Good father, and mother, let me goe away
To seeke out my fortune, whatever itt bee.'
This suite then they granted to prettye Bessee.
Then Bessy, that was of bewtye soe bright,
All cladd in gray russett, and late in the night
From father and mother alone parted shee,
Who sighed and sobbed for prettye Bessee.
Shee went till shee came to Stratford-le-Bow,
Then knew shee not whither, nor which way to goe;
With teares shee lamented her hard destinie,
So sadd and soe heavy was pretty Bessee.
Shee kept on her journey untill it was day,
And went unto Rumford along the hye way;
Where at the Queenes Armes entertained was shee,
Soe faire and wel favoured was pretty Bessee.
Shee had not beene there a month to an end,
But master and mistres and all was her friend;
And every brave gallant that once did her see
Was straight-way enamoured of pretty Bessee.
Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold,
And in their songs daylye her love was extold;
Her beawtye was blazed in every degree,
Soe faire and soe comelye was pretty Bessee.
The young men of Rumford in her had their joy;
Shee shewed herself courteous, and modestlye coye,
And at her commandment still wold they bee,
Soe fayre and so comelye was pretty Bessee.
Foure suitors att once unto her did goe,
They craved her favor, but still she sayd noe;
'I wild not wish gentles to marry with mee,-'
Yett ever they honored pretty Bessee.
The first of them was a gallant young knight,
And he came unto her disguisde in the night;
The second a gentleman of good degree,
Who wooed and sued for prettye Bessee.
A merchant of London, whose wealth was not small,
He was the third suiter, and proper withall;
Her masters owne sonne the fourth man must bee,
Who swore he would dye for pretty Bessee.
'And, if thou wilt marry with mee,' quoth the knight,
'Ile make thee a ladye with joy and delight;
My hart's so enthralled by thy bewtie,
That soone I shall dye for prettye Bessee.'
The gentleman sayd, 'Come marry with mee,
As fine as a ladye my Bessy shal bee;
My life is distressed, O heare me,' quoth hee,
'And grant me thy love, my prettye Bessee.'
'Let me bee thy husband,' the merchant cold say,
'Thou shalt live in London both gallant and gay;
My shippes shall bring home rych jewells for thee,
And I will for ever love pretty Bessee.'
Then Bessy shee sighed, and thus shee did say;
'My father and mother I meane to obey;
First gett their good will, and be faithfull to me,
And you shall enjoye your prettye Bessee.'
To every one this answer shee made;
Wherfore unto her they joyfullye sayd,
'This thing to fulfill we all doe agree;
But where dwells thy father, my prettye Bessee?'
'My father,' shee said, 'is soone to be seene;
The seely blind beggar of Bednall-greene,
That daylye sits begging for charitie,
He is the good father of pretty Bessee.
'His markes and his tokens are knowen very well;
He always is led with a dogg and a bell;
A seely olde man, God knoweth, is hee,
Yet hee is the father of pretty Bessee.'
'Nay then,' quoth the merchant, 'thou art not for mee;'
'Nor,' quoth the innholder, 'my wiffe thou shalt bee;'
'I lothe,' sayd the gentle, 'a beggars degree,
And therefore, adewe, my pretty Bessee!'
'Why then,' quoth the knight, 'hap better or worse,
I waighe not true love by the waight of the pursse,
And bewtye is bewtye in every degree;
Then welcome unto me, my pretty Bessee.
'With thee to thy father forthwith I will goe.'
'Nay soft,' quoth his kinsmen, 'it must not be soe:
A poor beggars daughter noe ladye shal bee;
Then take thy adew of pretty Bessee.'
But soone after this, by breake of the day,
The knight had from Rumford stole Bessy away;
The younge men of Rumford, as thicke might bee,
Rode after to feitch againe pretty Bessee.
As swifte as the winde to ryde they were seene,
Until they came neare unto Rednall-greene,
And as the knight lighted most courteouslie,
They all fought against him for pretty Bessee.
But rescew came speedilye over the plaine,
Or else the young knight for his love had been slaine;
This fray being ended, then straitway he see
His kinsmen come rayling at pretty Bessee.
Then spake the blind beggar, 'Although I bee poore,
Yett rayle not against my child at my own doore;
Though shee be not decked in velvett and pearle,
Yet will I dropp angells with you for my girle;
'And then if my gold may better her birthe,
And equall the gold that you lay on the earth,
Then neyther rayle nor grudge you to see
The blind beggars daughter a lady to bee.
'But first you shall promise, and have itt well knowne,
The gold that you drop shall all be your owne.'
With that they replyed, 'Contented bee wee.'
'Then here's,' quoth the beggar, 'for pretty Bessee.'
With that an angell he cast on the ground,
And dropped, in angels, full three thousand pound;
And oftentimes itt was proved most plaine,
For the gentlemens one, the beggar droppt twayne:
Soe that the place wherin they did sitt
With gold it was covered every whitt;
The gentlemen then having dropt all their store,
Sayd, 'Now, beggar, hold, for wee have noe more.
'Thou hast fulfilled thy promise arright;'
'Then marry,' quoth he, 'my girle to this knight;
And heere,' added hee, 'I will now throwe you downe,
A hundred pounds more to buy her a gowne.'
The gentlemen all, that this treasure had seene,
Admired the beggar of Bednall-greene.
And all those that were her suitors before,
There fleshe for very anger they tore.
Thus was faire Besse matched to the knight,
And then made a ladye in others despite:
A fairer ladye there never was seene,
Than the blind beggars daughter of Bednall-greene.
But of their sumptuous marriage and feast,
What brave lords and knights thither were prest,
The Second Fitt shall set forth to your sight,
With marveilous pleasure, and wished delight.
Part the Second
Off a blind beggars daughter most bright,
That late was betrothed unto a younge knight,
All the discourse therof you did see,
But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessee.
Within a gorgeous palace most brave,
Adorned with all the cost they cold have,
This wedding was kept most sumptuouslie,
And all for the creditt of pretty Bessee.
All kind of dainties and delicates sweete
Were bought for the banquet, as it was most meete;
Partridge, and plover, and venison most free,
Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee.
This marriage through England was spread by report,
Soe that a great number thereto did resort,
Of nobles and gentles in every degree,
And all for the fame of prettye Bessee.
To church then went this gallant younge knight;
His bride followed after, an angell most bright,
With troopes of ladyes, the like nere was seene
As went with sweete Bessy of Bednall-greene.
This marryage being solempnized then,
With musicke performed by the skilfullest men,
The nobles and gentles sate downe at that tyde,
Each one admiring the beautifull bryde.
Now, after the sumptuous dinner was done,
To talke and to reason a number begunn,
They talkt of the blind beggars daughter most bright,
And what with his daughter he gave to the knight.
Then spake the nobles, 'Much marveil have wee
This jolly blind beggar wee cannot here see.'
'My Lords,' qouth the bride, 'my father's so base
He is loth with his presence these states to disgrace.'
'The prayse of a woman in questyon to bringe,
Before her own face, were a flattering thinge;
But wee thinke thy father's baseness,' quoth they,
'Might by thy bewtye be cleane put away.'
They had noe sooner these pleasant words spoke,
But in comes the beggar cladd in a silke cloke,
A faire velvet capp and a fether had hee,
And now a musicyan, forsooth, he wold bee.
He had a daintye lute under his arme,
He touched the strings, which made such a charme;
Saies, 'Please you to heare any musicke of mee,
Ile sing you a song of pretty Bessee.'
With that his lute he twanged straightway,
And thereon begann most sweetlye to play,
And after that lessons were playd two or three,
He strayn'd out this song most delicatlie:
'A poore beggars daughter did dwell on a greene,
Who for her fairenesse might well be a queene,
A blithe bonny lasse, and a daintye was shee,
And many one called her pretty Bessee.
'Her father hee had noe goods, nor noe land,
But beggd for a penny all day with his hand,
And yett to her marriage hee gave thousands three,
And still he hath somewhat for pretty Bessee.
'And if any one here her berth doe disdaine,
Her father is ready, with might and with maine,
To proove shee is come of noble degree,
Therfore never flout att prettye Bessee.'
With that the lords and the companye round
With harty laughter were readye to swound;
Att last said the lords, 'Full well wee may see,
The bride and the beggar's behoulden to thee.'
On this the bride all blushing did rise,
The pearlie dropps standing within her faire eyes;
'O pardon my father, grave nobles,' quoth shee,
'That throughe blind affection thus doteth on mee.'
'If this be thy father,' the nobles did say,
'Well may he be proud of this happy day,
Yett by his countenance well may wee see,
His birth and his fortune did never agree.
'And therfore, blind man, we pray thee bewray,
(And looke that the truth thou to us doe say),
Thy birth and thy parentage what itt may bee,
For the love that thou bearest to pretty Bessee.'
'Then give me leave, nobles and gentles, each one,
One song more to sing and then I have done;
And if that itt may not winn good report,
Then doe not give me a Groat for my sport:
'[Sir Simon de Montfort my subject shal bee;
Once chiefe of all the great barons was hee,
Yet fortune so cruelle this lorde did abase,
Now loste and forgotten are hee and his race.
'When the barons in armes did King Henrye oppose,
Sir Simon de Montfort their leader they chose;
A leader of courage undaunted was hee,
And oft-times he made their enemyes flee.
'At length in the battle on Evashame plaine
The barons were routed, and Montfort was slaine;
Most fatall that battel did prove unto thee,
Thoughe thou wast not borne then, my prettye Bessee!
'Along with the nobles that fell at that tyde,
His eldest son Henrye, who fought by his side,
Was fellde by a blowe he receivde in the fight!
A blowe that deprivde him for ever of sight.
'Among the dead bodyes all lifelesse he laye,
Till evening drewe on of the following daye,
When by a yong ladye discoverd was hee;
And this was thy mother, my prettye Bessee!
'A barons faire daughter stept forth in the nighte
To search for her father who fell in the fight,
And seeing yong Montfort, where gasping he laye,
Was moved with pitye and brought him awaye.
'In secrette she nurst him and swaged his paine,
While he throughe the realme was beleevd to be slaine;
At lengthe his faire bride she consented to bee,
And made him glad father of prettye Bessee.
'And nowe lest oure foes our lives sholde betraye,
We clothed ourselves in beggars arraye;
Her jewelles shee solde, and hither came wee;
All our comfort and care was our prettye Bessee.]
'And here have wee lived in fortunes despite,
Thoughe poore, yet contented, with humble delighte:
Full forty winters thus have I beene
A silly blind beggar of Bednall-greene.
'And here, noble lordes, is ended the song
Of one that once to your own ranke did belong;
And thus have you learned a secrette from mee,
That ne'er had beene knowne but for prettye Bessee.'
Now when the faire companye everye one
Had heard the strange tale in the song he had showne,
They all were amazed, as well they might bee,
Both at the blinde beggar and pretty Bessee.
With that the faire bride they all did embrace,
Saying, 'Sure thou art come of an honourable race;
Thy father likewise is of noble degree,
And thou art well worthy a lady to bee.'
Thus was the feast ended with joye and delighte;
A bridegroome most happy then was the young knighte,
In joy and felicitie long lived hee,
All with his faire ladye, the pretty Bessee.
In the taxi alone, home from the airport,
I could not believe you were gone. My palm kept
creeping over the smooth plastic
to find your strong meaty little hand and
squeeze it, find your narrow thigh in the
noble ribbing of the corduroy,
straight and regular as anything in nature, to
find the slack cool cheek of a
child in the heat of a summer morning—
nothing, nothing, waves of bawling
hitting me in hot flashes like some
change of life, some boiling wave
rising in me toward your body, toward
where it should have been on the seat, your
brow curved like a cereal bowl, your
eyes dark with massed crystals like the
magnified scales of a butterfly's wing, the
delicate feelers of your limp hair,
floods of blood rising in my face as I
tried to reassemble the hot
gritty molecules in the car, to
make you appear like a holograph
on the back seat, pull you out of nothing
as I once did—but you were really gone,
the cab glossy as a slit caul out of
which you had slipped, the air glittering
electric with escape as it does in the room at a birth.
Anonymous submission.
Nature, when she made thee, dear,
Begged the treasures of the year.
For thy cheeks, all pink and white,
Spring gave apple blossoms light;
Summer, for thy matchless eyes,
Gave the azure of her skies;
Autumn spun her gold and red
In a mass of silken thread—
Gold and red and sunlight rare
For the wonder of thy hair!
Surly Winter would impart
But his coldness, for thy heart.
Dearest, let the love I bring
Turn thy Winter into Spring.
What are Summer, Spring and Fall,
If thy Winter chills them all?
I
He who has looked upon Earth
Deeper than flower and fruit,
Losing some hue of his mirth,
As the tree striking rock at the root,
Unto him shall the marvellous tale
Of Callistes more humanly come
With the touch on his breast than a hail
From the markets that hum.
II
Now the youth footed swift to the dawn.
'Twas the season when wintertide,
In the higher rock-hollows updrawn,
Leaves meadows to bud, and he spied,
By light throwing shallow shade,
Between the beam and the gloom,
Sicilian Enna, whose Maid
Such aspect wears in her bloom
Underneath since the Charioteer
Of Darkness whirled her away,
On a reaped afternoon of the year,
Nigh the poppy-droop of Day.
O and naked of her, all dust,
The majestic Mother and Nurse,
Ringing cries to the God, the Just,
Curled the land with the blight of her curse:
Recollected of this glad isle
Still quaking. But now more fair,
And momently fraying the while
The veil of the shadows there,
Soft Enna that prostrate grief
Sang through, and revealed round the vines,
Bronze-orange, the crisp young leaf,
The wheat-blades tripping in lines,
A hue unillumined by sun
Of the flowers flooding grass as from founts:
All the penetrable dun
Of the morn ere she mounts.
III
Nor had saffron and sapphire and red
Waved aloft to their sisters below,
When gaped by the rock-channel head
Of the lake, black, a cave at one blow,
Reverberant over the plain:
A sound oft fearfully swung
For the coming of wrathful rain:
And forth, like the dragon-tongue
Of a fire beaten flat by the gale,
But more as the smoke to behold,
A chariot burst. Then a wail
Quivered high of the love that would fold
Bliss immeasurable, bigger than heart,
Though a God's: and the wheels were stayed,
And the team of the chariot swart
Reared in marble, the six, dismayed,
Like hoofs that by night plashing sea
Curve and ramp from the vast swan-wave:
For, lo, the Great Mother, She!
And Callistes gazed, he gave
His eyeballs up to the sight:
The embrace of the Twain, of whom
To men are their day, their night,
Mellow fruits and the shearing tomb:
Our Lady of the Sheaves
And the Lily of Hades, the Sweet
Of Enna: he saw through leaves
The Mother and Daughter meet.
They stood by the chariot-wheel,
Embraced, very tall, most like
Fellow poplars, wind-taken, that reel
Down their shivering columns and strike
Head to head, crossing throats: and apart,
For the feast of the look, they drew,
Which Darkness no longer could thwart;
And they broke together anew,
Exulting to tears, flower and bud.
But the mate of the Rayless was grave:
She smiled like Sleep on its flood,
That washes of all we crave:
Like the trance of eyes awake
And the spirit enshrouded, she cast
The wan underworld on the lake.
They were so, and they passed.
IV
He tells it, who knew the law
Upon mortals: he stood alive
Declaring that this he saw:
He could see, and survive.
V
Now the youth was not ware of the beams
With the grasses intertwined,
For each thing seen, as in dreams,
Came stepping to rear through his mind,
Till it struck his remembered prayer
To be witness of this which had flown
Like a smoke melted thinner than air,
That the vacancy doth disown.
And viewing a maiden, he thought
It might now be morn, and afar
Within him the memory wrought
Of a something that slipped from the car
When those, the august, moved by:
Perchance a scarf, and perchance
This maiden. She did not fly,
Nor started at his advance:
She looked, as when infinite thirst
Pants pausing to bless the springs,
Refreshed, unsated. Then first
He trembled with awe of the things
He had seen; and he did transfer,
Divining and doubting in turn,
His reverence unto her;
Nor asked what he crouched to learn:
The whence of her, whither, and why
Her presence there, and her name,
Her parentage: under which sky
Her birth, and how hither she came,
So young, a virgin, alone,
Unfriended, having no fear,
As Oreads have; no moan,
Like the lost upon earth; no tear;
Not a sign of the torch in the blood,
Though her stature had reached the height
When mantles a tender rud
In maids that of youths have sight,
If maids of our seed they be:
For he said: A glad vision art thou!
And she answered him: Thou to me!
As men utter a vow.
VI
Then said she, quick as the cries
Of the rainy cranes: Light! light!
And Helios rose in her eyes,
That were full as the dew-balls bright,
Relucent to him as dews
Unshaded. Breathing, she sent
Her voice to the God of the Muse,
And along the vale it went,
Strange to hear: not thin, not shrill:
Sweet, but no young maid's throat:
The echo beyond the hill
Ran falling on half the note:
And under the shaken ground
Where the Hundred-headed groans
By the roots of great AEtna bound,
As of him were hollow tones
Of wondering roared: a tale
Repeated to sunless halls.
But now off the face of the vale
Shadows fled in a breath, and the walls
Of the lake's rock-head were gold,
And the breast of the lake, that swell
Of the crestless long wave rolled
To shore-bubble, pebble and shell.
A morning of radiant lids
O'er the dance of the earth opened wide:
The bees chose their flowers, the snub kids
Upon hindlegs went sportive, or plied,
Nosing, hard at the dugs to be filled:
There was milk, honey, music to make:
Up their branches the little birds billed:
Chirrup, drone, bleat and buzz ringed the lake.
O shining in sunlight, chief
After water and water's caress,
Was the young bronze-orange leaf,
That clung to the tree as a tress,
Shooting lucid tendrils to wed
With the vine-hook tree or pole,
Like Arachne launched out on her thread.
Then the maiden her dusky stole
In the span of the black-starred zone,
Gathered up for her footing fleet.
As one that had toil of her own
She followed the lines of wheat
Tripping straight through the fields, green blades,
To the groves of olive grey,
Downy-grey, golden-tinged: and to glades
Where the pear-blossom thickens the spray
In a night, like the snow-packed storm:
Pear, apple, almond, plum:
Not wintry now: pushing, warm!
And she touched them with finger and thumb,
As the vine-hook closes: she smiled,
Recounting again and again,
Corn, wine, fruit, oil! like a child,
With the meaning known to men.
For hours in the track of the plough
And the pruning-knife she stepped,
And of how the seed works, and of how
Yields the soil, she seemed adept.
Then she murmured that name of the dearth,
The Beneficent, Hers, who bade
Our husbandmen sow for the birth
Of the grain making earth full glad.
She murmured that Other's: the dirge
Of life-light: for whose dark lap
Our locks are clipped on the verge
Of the realm where runs no sap.
She said: We have looked on both!
And her eyes had a wavering beam
Of various lights, like the froth
Of the storm-swollen ravine stream
In flame of the bolt. What links
Were these which had made him her friend?
He eyed her, as one who drinks,
And would drink to the end.
VII
Now the meadows with crocus besprent,
And the asphodel woodsides she left,
And the lake-slopes, the ravishing scent
Of narcissus, dark-sweet, for the cleft
That tutors the torrent-brook,
Delaying its forceful spleen
With many a wind and crook
Through rock to the broad ravine.
By the hyacinth-bells in the brakes,
And the shade-loved white windflower, half hid,
And the sun-loving lizards and snakes
On the cleft's barren ledges, that slid
Out of sight, smooth as waterdrops, all,
At a snap of twig or bark
In the track of the foreign foot-fall,
She climbed to the pineforest dark,
Overbrowing an emerald chine
Of the grass-billows. Thence, as a wreath,
Running poplar and cypress to pine,
The lake-banks are seen, and beneath,
Vineyard, village, groves, rivers, towers, farms,
The citadel watching the bay,
The bay with the town in its arms,
The town shining white as the spray
Of the sapphire sea-wave on the rock,
Where the rock stars the girdle of sea,
White-ringed, as the midday flock,
Clipped by heat, rings the round of the tree.
That hour of the piercing shaft
Transfixes bough-shadows, confused
In veins of fire, and she laughed,
With her quiet mouth amused
To see the whole flock, adroop,
Asleep, hug the tree-stem as one,
Imperceptibly filling the loop
Of its shade at a slant of sun.
The pipes under pent of the crag,
Where the goatherds in piping recline,
Have whimsical stops, burst and flag
Uncorrected as outstretched swine:
For the fingers are slack and unsure,
And the wind issues querulous:- thorns
And snakes!--but she listened demure,
Comparing day's music with morn's.
Of the gentle spirit that slips
From the bark of the tree she discoursed,
And of her of the wells, whose lips
Are coolness enchanting, rock-sourced.
And much of the sacred loon,
The frolic, the Goatfoot God,
For stories of indolent noon
In the pineforest's odorous nod,
She questioned, not knowing: he can
Be waspish, irascible, rude,
He is oftener friendly to man,
And ever to beasts and their brood.
For the which did she love him well,
She said, and his pipes of the reed,
His twitched lips puffing to tell
In music his tears and his need,
Against the sharp catch of his hurt.
Not as shepherds of Pan did she speak,
Nor spake as the schools, to divert,
But fondly, perceiving him weak
Before Gods, and to shepherds a fear,
A holiness, horn and heel.
All this she had learnt in her ear
From Callistes, and taught him to feel.
Yea, the solemn divinity flushed
Through the shaggy brown skin of the beast,
And the steeps where the cataract rushed,
And the wilds where the forest is priest,
Were his temple to clothe him in awe,
While she spake: 'twas a wonder: she read
The haunts of the beak and the claw
As plain as the land of bread,
But Cities and martial States,
Whither soon the youth veered his theme,
Were impervious barrier-gates
To her: and that ship, a trireme,
Nearing harbour, scarce wakened her glance,
Though he dwelt on the message it bore
Of sceptre and sword and lance
To the bee-swarms black on the shore,
Which were audible almost,
So black they were. It befel
That he called up the warrior host
Of the Song pouring hydromel
In thunder, the wide-winged Song.
And he named with his boyish pride
The heroes, the noble throng
Past Acheron now, foul tide!
With his joy of the godlike band
And the verse divine, he named
The chiefs pressing hot on the strand,
Seen of Gods, of Gods aided, and maimed.
The fleetfoot and ireful; the King;
Him, the prompter in stratagem,
Many-shifted and masterful: Sing,
O Muse! But she cried: Not of them
She breathed as if breath had failed,
And her eyes, while she bade him desist,
Held the lost-to-light ghosts grey-mailed,
As you see the grey river-mist
Hold shapes on the yonder bank.
A moment her body waned,
The light of her sprang and sank:
Then she looked at the sun, she regained
Clear feature, and she breathed deep.
She wore the wan smile he had seen,
As the flow of the river of Sleep,
On the mouth of the Shadow-Queen.
In sunlight she craved to bask,
Saying: Life! And who was she? who?
Of what issue? He dared not ask,
For that partly he knew.
VIII
A noise of the hollow ground
Turned the eye to the ear in debate:
Not the soft overflowing of sound
Of the pines, ranked, lofty, straight,
Barely swayed to some whispers remote,
Some swarming whispers above:
Not the pines with the faint airs afloat,
Hush-hushing the nested dove:
It was not the pines, or the rout
Oft heard from mid-forest in chase,
But the long muffled roar of a shout
Subterranean. Sharp grew her face.
She rose, yet not moved by affright;
'Twas rather good haste to use
Her holiday of delight
In the beams of the God of the Muse.
And the steeps of the forest she crossed,
On its dry red sheddings and cones
Up the paths by roots green-mossed,
Spotted amber, and old mossed stones.
Then out where the brook-torrent starts
To her leap, and from bend to curve
A hurrying elbow darts
For the instant-glancing swerve,
Decisive, with violent will
In the action formed, like hers,
The maiden's, ascending; and still
Ascending, the bud of the furze,
The broom, and all blue-berried shoots
Of stubborn and prickly kind,
The juniper flat on its roots,
The dwarf rhododaphne, behind
She left, and the mountain sheep
Far behind, goat, herbage and flower.
The island was hers, and the deep,
All heaven, a golden hour.
Then with wonderful voice, that rang
Through air as the swan's nigh death,
Of the glory of Light she sang,
She sang of the rapture of Breath.
Nor ever, says he who heard,
Heard Earth in her boundaries broad,
From bosom of singer or bird
A sweetness thus rich of the God
Whose harmonies always are sane.
She sang of furrow and seed,
The burial, birth of the grain,
The growth, and the showers that feed,
And the green blades waxing mature
For the husbandman's armful brown.
O, the song in its burden ran pure,
And burden to song was a crown.
Callistes, a singer, skilled
In the gift he could measure and praise,
By a rival's art was thrilled,
Though she sang but a Song of Days,
Where the husbandman's toil and strife
Little varies to strife and toil:
But the milky kernel of life,
With her numbered: corn, wine, fruit, oil
The song did give him to eat:
Gave the first rapt vision of Good,
And the fresh young sense of Sweet
The grace of the battle for food,
With the issue Earth cannot refuse
When men to their labour are sworn.
'Twas a song of the God of the Muse
To the forehead of Morn.
IX
Him loved she. Lo, now was he veiled:
Over sea stood a swelled cloud-rack:
The fishing-boat heavenward sailed,
Bent abeam, with a whitened track,
Surprised, fast hauling the net,
As it flew: sea dashed, earth shook.
She said: Is it night? O not yet!
With a travail of thoughts in her look.
The mountain heaved up to its peak:
Sea darkened: earth gathered her fowl;
Of bird or of branch rose the shriek.
Night? but never so fell a scowl
Wore night, nor the sky since then
When ocean ran swallowing shore,
And the Gods looked down for men.
Broke tempest with that stern roar
Never yet, save when black on the whirl
Rode wrath of a sovereign Power.
Then the youth and the shuddering girl,
Dim as shades in the angry shower,
Joined hands and descended a maze
Of the paths that were racing alive
Round boulder and bush, cleaving ways,
Incessant, with sound of a hive.
The height was a fountain-urn
Pouring streams, and the whole solid height
Leaped, chasing at every turn
The pair in one spirit of flight
To the folding pineforest. Yet here,
Like the pause to things hunted, in doubt,
The stillness bred spectral fear
Of the awfulness ranging without,
And imminent. Downward they fled,
From under the haunted roof,
To the valley aquake with the tread
Of an iron-resounding hoof,
As of legions of thunderful horse
Broken loose and in line tramping hard.
For the rage of a hungry force
Roamed blind of its mark over sward:
They saw it rush dense in the cloak
Of its travelling swathe of steam;
All the vale through a thin thread-smoke
Was thrown back to distance extreme:
And dull the full breast of it blinked,
Like a buckler of steel breathed o'er,
Diminished, in strangeness distinct,
Glowing cold, unearthly, hoar:
An Enna of fields beyond sun,
Out of light, in a lurid web;
And the traversing fury spun
Up and down with a wave's flow and ebb;
As the wave breaks to grasp and to spurn,
Retire, and in ravenous greed,
Inveterate, swell its return.
Up and down, as if wringing from speed
Sights that made the unsighted appear,
Delude and dissolve, on it scoured.
Lo, a sea upon land held career
Through the plain of the vale half-devoured.
Callistes of home and escape
Muttered swiftly, unwitting of speech.
She gazed at the Void of shape,
She put her white hand to his reach,
Saying: Now have we looked on the Three.
And divided from day, from night,
From air that is breath, stood she,
Like the vale, out of light.
X
Then again in disorderly words
He muttered of home, and was mute,
With the heart of the cowering birds
Ere they burst off the fowler's foot.
He gave her some redness that streamed
Through her limbs in a flitting glow.
The sigh of our life she seemed,
The bliss of it clothing in woe.
Frailer than flower when the round
Of the sickle encircles it: strong
To tell of the things profound,
Our inmost uttering song,
Unspoken. So stood she awhile
In the gloom of the terror afield,
And the silence about her smile
Said more than of tongue is revealed.
I have breathed: I have gazed: I have been:
It said: and not joylessly shone
The remembrance of light through the screen
Of a face that seemed shadow and stone.
She led the youth trembling, appalled,
To the lake-banks he saw sink and rise
Like a panic-struck breast. Then she called,
And the hurricane blackness had eyes.
It launched like the Thunderer's bolt.
Pale she drooped, and the youth by her side
Would have clasped her and dared a revolt
Sacrilegious as ever defied
High Olympus, but vainly for strength
His compassionate heart shook a frame
Stricken rigid to ice all its length.
On amain the black traveller came.
Lo, a chariot, cleaving the storm,
Clove the fountaining lake with a plough,
And the lord of the steeds was in form
He, the God of implacable brow,
Darkness: he: he in person: he raged
Through the wave like a boar of the wilds
From the hunters and hounds disengaged,
And a name shouted hoarsely: his child's.
Horror melted in anguish to hear.
Lo, the wave hissed apart for the path
Of the terrible Charioteer,
With the foam and torn features of wrath,
Hurled aloft on each arm in a sheet;
And the steeds clove it, rushing at land
Like the teeth of the famished at meat.
Then he swept out his hand.
XI
This, no more, doth Callistes recall:
He saw, ere he dropped in swoon,
On the maiden the chariot fall,
As a thundercloud swings on the moon.
Forth, free of the deluge, one cry
From the vanishing gallop rose clear:
And: Skiegeneia! the sky
Rang; Skiegeneia! the sphere.
And she left him therewith, to rejoice,
Repine, yearn, and know not his aim,
The life of their day in her voice,
Left her life in her name.
XII
Now the valley in ruin of fields
And fair meadowland, showing at eve
Like the spear-pitted warrior's shields
After battle, bade men believe
That no other than wrathfullest God
Had been loose on her beautiful breast,
Where the flowery grass was clod,
Wheat and vine as a trailing nest.
The valley, discreet in grief,
Disclosed but the open truth,
And Enna had hope of the sheaf:
There was none for the desolate youth
Devoted to mourn and to crave.
Of the secret he had divined
Of his friend of a day would he rave:
How for light of our earth she pined:
For the olive, the vine and the wheat,
Burning through with inherited fire:
And when Mother went Mother to meet,
She was prompted by simple desire
In the day-destined car to have place
At the skirts of the Goddess, unseen,
And be drawn to the dear earth's face.
She was fire for the blue and the green
Of our earth, dark fire; athirst
As a seed of her bosom for dawn,
White air that had robed and nursed
Her mother. Now was she gone
With the Silent, the God without tear,
Like a bud peeping out of its sheath
To be sundered and stamped with the sere.
And Callistes to her beneath,
As she to our beams, extinct,
Strained arms: he was shade of her shade.
In division so were they linked.
But the song which had betrayed
Her flight to the cavernous ear
For its own keenly wakeful: that song
Of the sowing and reaping, and cheer
Of the husbandman's heart made strong
Through droughts and deluging rains
With his faith in the Great Mother's love:
O the joy of the breath she sustains,
And the lyre of the light above,
And the first rapt vision of Good,
And the fresh young sense of Sweet:
That song the youth ever pursued
In the track of her footing fleet.
For men to be profited much
By her day upon earth did he sing:
Of her voice, and her steps, and her touch
On the blossoms of tender Spring,
Immortal: and how in her soul
She is with them, and tearless abides,
Folding grain of a love for one goal
In patience, past flowing of tides.
And if unto him she was tears,
He wept not: he wasted within:
Seeming sane in the song, to his peers,
Only crazed where the cravings begin.
Our Lady of Gifts prized he less
Than her issue in darkness: the dim
Lost Skiegencia's caress
Of our earth made it richest for him.
And for that was a curse on him raised,
And he withered rathe, dry to his prime,
Though the bounteous Giver be praised
Through the island with rites of old time
Exceedingly fervent, and reaped
Veneration for teachings devout,
Pious hymns when the corn-sheaves are heaped
And the wine-presses ruddily spout,
And the olive and apple are juice
At a touch light as hers lost below.
Whatsoever to men is of use
Sprang his worship of them who bestow,
In a measure of songs unexcelled:
But that soul loving earth and the sun
From her home of the shadows he held
For his beacon where beam there is none:
And to join her, or have her brought back,
In his frenzy the singer would call,
Till he followed where never was track,
On the path trod of all.
O thou, the wonder of all days!
O paragon, and pearl of praise!
O Virgin-martyr, ever blest
Above the rest
Of all the maiden-train!  We come,
And bring fresh strewings to thy tomb.
Thus, thus, and thus, we compass round
Thy harmless and unhaunted ground;
And as we sing thy dirge, we will
The daffadil,
And other flowers, lay upon
The altar of our love, thy stone.
Thou wonder of all maids, liest here,
Of daughters all, the dearest dear;
The eye of virgins; nay, the queen
Of this smooth green,
And all sweet meads, from whence we get
The primrose and the violet.
Too soon, too dear did Jephthah buy,
By thy sad loss, our liberty;
His was the bond and cov'nant, yet
Thou paid'st the debt;
Lamented Maid!  he won the day:
But for the conquest thou didst pay.
Thy father brought with him along
The olive branch and victor's song;
He slew the Ammonites, we know,
But to thy woe;
And in the purchase of our peace,
The cure was worse than the disease.
For which obedient zeal of thine,
We offer here, before thy shrine,
Our sighs for storax, tears for wine;
And to make fine
And fresh thy hearse-cloth, we will here
Four times bestrew thee every year.
Receive, for this thy praise, our tears;
Receive this offering of our hairs;
Receive these crystal vials, fill'd
With tears, distill'd
From teeming eyes; to these we bring,
Each maid, her silver filleting,
To gild thy tomb; besides, these cauls,
These laces, ribbons, and these falls,
These veils, wherewith we use to hide
The bashful bride,
When we conduct her to her groom;
All, all we lay upon thy tomb.
No more, no more, since thou art dead,
Shall we e'er bring coy brides to bed;
No more, at yearly festivals,
We, cowslip balls,
Or chains of columbines shall make,
For this or that occasion's sake.
No, no; our maiden pleasures be
Wrapt in the winding-sheet with thee;
'Tis we are dead, though not i' th' grave;
Or if we have
One seed of life left, 'tis to keep
A Lent for thee, to fast and weep.
Sleep in thy peace, thy bed of spice,
And make this place all paradise;
May sweets grow here, and smoke from hence
Fat frankincense;
Let balm and cassia send their scent
From out thy maiden-monument.
May no wolf howl, or screech owl stir
A wing about thy sepulchre!
No boisterous winds or storms come hither,
To starve or wither
Thy soft sweet earth; but, like a spring,
Love keep it ever flourishing.
May all shy maids, at wonted hours,
Come forth to strew thy tomb with flowers;
May virgins, when they come to mourn,
Male-incense burn
Upon thine altar; then return,
And leave thee sleeping in thy urn.
Seven stars in the still water,
And seven in the sky;
Seven sins on the King's daughter,
Deep in her soul to lie.
Red roses are at her feet,
(Roses are red in her red-gold hair)
And O where her bosom and girdle meet
Red roses are hidden there.
Fair is the knight who lieth slain
Amid the rush and reed,
See the lean fishes that are fain
Upon dead men to feed.
Sweet is the page that lieth there,
(Cloth of gold is goodly prey,)
See the black ravens in the air,
Black, O black as the night are they.
What do they there so stark and dead?
(There is blood upon her hand)
Why are the lilies flecked with red?
(There is blood on the river sand.)
There are two that ride from the south and east,
And two from the north and west,
For the black raven a goodly feast,
For the King's daughter rest.
There is one man who loves her true,
(Red, O red, is the stain of gore!)
He hath duggen a grave by the darksome yew,
(One grave will do for four.)
No moon in the still heaven,
In the black water none,
The sins on her soul are seven,
The sin upon his is one.
The Farmer quit what he was at,
The bee-hive he was smokin':
He tilted back his old straw hat--
Says he, 'Young man, you're jokin'!
O Lordy! (Lord, forgive the swar,)
Ain't ye a cheeky sinner?
Come, if I give my gal thar,
Where would _you_ find her dinner?
'Now look at _me_; I settl'd down
When I was one and twenty,
Me, and my axe and Mrs. Brown,
And stony land a plenty.
Look up thar! ain't that homestead fine,
And look at them thar cattle:
I tell ye since that early time
I've fit a tidy battle.
'It kinder wrestles down a man
To fight the stuns and mire:
But I sort of clutch'd to thet thar plan
Of David and Goliar.
Want was the mean old Philistine
That strutted round the clearin',
Of pebbles I'd a hansum line,
And flung 'em nothin' fearin'.
'They hit him square, right whar they ought,
Them times I _had_ an arm!
I lick'd the giant and I bought
A hundred acre farm.
My gal was born about them days,
I was mowin' in the medder;
When some one comes along and says--
'The wife's gone thro' the shadder!'
'Times thought it was God's will she went--
Times thought she work'd too slavin'--
And for the young one that was sent,
I took to steady savin'.
Jest cast your eye on that thar hill
The sugar bush just tetches,
And round by Miller Jackson's mill,
All round the farm stretches.
''Ain't got a mind to give that land
To any snip-snap feller
That don't know loam from mud or sand,
Or if corn's blue or yaller.
I've got a mind to keep her yet--
Last Fall her cheese and butter
Took prizes; sakes! I can't forget
Her pretty pride and flutter.
'Why, you be off! her little face
For me's the only summer;
Her gone, 'twould be a queer, old place,
The Lord smile down upon her!
All goes with her, the house and lot--
You'd like to get 'em, very!
I'll give 'em when this maple bears
A bouncin' ripe-red cherry!'
The Farmer fixed his hat and specks
And pursed his lips together,
The maple wav'd above his head,
Each gold and scarlet feather:
The Teacher's Honest heart sank down:
How could his soul be merry?
He knew--though teaching in a town,
No maple bears a cherry.
Soft blew the wind; the great old tree,
Like Saul to David's singing,
Nodded its jewelled crown, as he
Swayed to the harp-strings' ringing;
A something rosy--not a leaf
Stirs up amid the branches;
A miracle _may_ send relief
To lovers fond and anxious!
O rosy is the velvet cheek
Of one 'mid red leaves sitting!
The sunbeams played at hide-and-seek
With the needles in her knitting.
'O Pa!' The Farmer prick'd his ears,
Whence came that voice so merry?
(The Teacher's thoughtful visage clears)
'The maple bears a cherry!'
The Farmer tilted back his hat:
'Well, gal--as I'm a human,
I'll always hold as doctrine that
Thar's nothin' beats a woman!
When crown'd that maple is with snow,
And Christmas bells are merry,
I'll let you have her, Jack--that's so!
Be sure you're good to Cherry!'
I met her on the Lachlan Side --
A darling girl I thought her,
And ere I left I swore I'd win
The free-selector's daughter.
I milked her father's cows a month,
I brought the wood and water,
I mended all the broken fence,
Before I won the daughter.
I listened to her father's yarns,
I did just what I `oughter',
And what you'll have to do to win
A free-selector's daughter.
I broke my pipe and burnt my twist,
And washed my mouth with water;
I had a shave before I kissed
The free-selector's daughter.
Then, rising in the frosty morn,
I brought the cows for Mary,
And when I'd milked a bucketful
I took it to the dairy.
I poured the milk into the dish
While Mary held the strainer,
I summoned heart to speak my wish,
And, oh! her blush grew plainer.
I told her I must leave the place,
I said that I would miss her;
At first she turned away her face,
And then she let me kiss her.
I put the bucket on the ground,
And in my arms I caught her:
I'd give the world to hold again
That free-selector's daughter!
The dusky warriors stood in groups around the funeral pyre,
The scowl upon their knotted brows betrayed their vengeful ire.
It needed not the cords, the stake, the rites so stern and rude,
To tell it was to be a scene of cruelty and blood.
Yet ’mid those guilt-stained men could any vile enough be found
To harm the victim who there stood, in helpless thraldom bound?
A girl of slight and fragile form, of gentle child-like grace,
Though woman’s earnest thoughtfulness beamed in that sweet young face.
Oh! lovely was that winsome child of a dark and rugged line,
And e’en mid Europe’s daughters fair, surpassing might she shine:
For ne’er had coral lips been wreathed by brighter, sunnier smile,
Or dark eyes beamed with lustrous light, more full of winsome wile.
With glowing cheek and curving lip, she stood, in silent pride,
A queen in simple majesty, though captive bound and tied,
Nor could that sight of death, though fit to turn a strong heart weak,
Chase back the deep scorn from her brow, the color from her cheek.
And, yet, it was not wonderful, that haughty, high-born grace,
She stood amid her direst foes, a Princess of her race;
Knowing they’d met to wreak on her their hatred ’gainst her name,
To doom her to a fearful death, to pangs of fire and flame.
But, mindful of the teachings stern of childhood’s early years,
She had firmly vowed no plaints of hers, or womanish weak tears
Would glad her foes but, as became her rank and lineage high,
That she would, like a Huron maid, nobly and bravely die.
One moment,—then her proud glance fled, her form she humbly bowed,
A softened light stole o’er her brow, she prayed to heaven aloud:
“Hear me, Thou Great and Glorious One, Protector of my race,
Whom, in the far-off Spirit land, I’ll soon see face to face!
”Pour down Thy blessings on my tribe, may they triumphant rise
Above the guileful Iroquois—Thine and our enemies;
And give me strength to bear each pang with courage high and free,
That, dying thus, I may be fit to reign, oh God! with Thee.“
Her prayer was ended, and again, like crowned and sceptred Queen,
She wore anew her lofty smile, her high and royal mien,
E’en though the Chief the signal gave, and quick two warriors dire,
Sprang forth to lead the dauntless girl to the lit funeral pyre.
Back, with an eye of flashing scorn, recoiled she from their grasp,
”Nay, touch me not, I’d rather meet the coil of poisoned asp!
My aged sire, and all my tribe will learn with honest pride
That, as befits a Huron’s child, their chieftain’s daughter died!“
She dashed aside her tresses dark with bright and fearless smile,
And like a fawn she bounded on the fearful funeral pile;
And even while those blood-stained men fulfilled their cruel part
They praised that maiden’s courage rare, her high and dauntless heart.
The rain rins doun through Mirry-land toune,
Sae dois it doune the Pa:
Sae dois the lads of Mirry-land toune,
Quhan they play at the ba'.
Than out and cam the Jewis dochter,
Said, 'Will ye cum in and dine?'
'I winnae cum in, I cannae cum in,
Without my play-feres nine.'
Scho powd an apple reid and white,
To intice the zong thing in:
Scho powd an apple white and reid,
And that the sweit bairne did win.
And scho has taine out a little penknife,
And low down by her gair;
Scho has twin'd the zong thing and his life;
A word he nevir spak mair.
And out and cam the thick, thick, bluid,
And out and cam the thin;
And out and cam the bonny herts bluid:
Thair was nae life left in.
Scho laid him on a dressing borde,
And drest him like a swine,
And laughing said, 'Gae nou and pley
With zour sweit play-feres nine.'
Scho rowd him in a cake of lead,
Bade him lie stil and sleip;
Scho cast him in a deip draw-well,
Was fifty fadom deip.
Quhan bells wer rung, and mass was sung,
And every lady went hame:
Than ilka lady had her zong sonne,
Bot Lady Helen had none.
Scho rowd hir mantil hir about,
And sair, sair gan she weip,
And she ran into the Jewis castel,
Quhan they were all asleip.
'My bonny Sir Hew, my pretty Sir Hew,
I pray thee to me speik:'
'O lady, rinn to the deip draw-well,
Gin ze zour zonne wad seik.'
Lady Helen ran to the deip draw-well,
And knelt upon her kne:
'My bonny Sir Hew, an ze be here,
I pray thee speik to me.'
'The lead is wondrous heavy, mither,
The well is wondrous deip;
A keen pen-knife sticks in my hert,
A word I dounae speik.
'Gae hame, gae hame, my mither deir,
Fetch me my windling sheet,
And at the back o' Mirry-land toun
Its thair we twa sall meet.'
WE WERE ten maidens in the green corn,
Small red leaves in the mill-water:
Fairer maidens never were born,
Apples of gold for the king’s daughter.
We were ten maidens by a well-head,
Small white birds in the mill-water:
Sweeter maidens never were wed,
Rings of red for the king’s daughter.
The first to spin, the second to sing,
Seeds of wheat in the mill-water;
The third may was a goodly thing,
White bread and brown for the king’s daughter.
The fourth to sew and the fifth to play,
Fair green weed in the mill-water;
The sixth may was a goodly may,
White wine and red for the king’s daughter.
The seventh to woo, the eighth to wed,
Fair thin reeds in the mill-water;
The ninth had gold work on her head,
Honey in the comb for the king’s daughter.
The ninth had gold work round her hair,
Fallen flowers in the mill-water;
The tenth may was goodly and fair,
Golden gloves for the king’s daughter.
We were ten maidens in a field green,
Fallen fruit in the mill-water;
Fairer maidens never have been,
Golden sleeves for the king’s daughter.
By there comes the king’s young son,
A little wind in the mill-water;
“Out of ten maidens ye’ll grant me one,”
A crown of red for the king’s daughter.
“Out of ten mays ye’ll give me the best,”
A little rain in the mill-water;
A bed of yellow straw for all the rest,
A bed of gold for the king’s daughter.
He’s ta’en out the goodliest,
Rain that rains in the mill-water;
A comb of yellow shell for all the rest,
A comb of gold for the king’s daughter.
He’s made her bed to the goodliest,
Wind and hail in the mill-water;
A grass girdle for all the rest,
A girdle of arms for the king’s daughter.
He’s set his heart to the goodliest,
Snow that snows in the mill-water;
Nine little kisses for all the rest,
An hundredfold for the king’s daughter.
He’s ta’en his leave at the goodliest,
Broken boats in the mill-water;
Golden gifts for all the rest,
Sorrow of heart for the king’s daughter.
“Ye’ll make a grave for my fair body,”
Running rain in the mill-water;
“And ye’ll streek my brother at the side of me,”
The pains of hell for the king’s daughter.
There was a shepherds daughter
Came tripping on the waye,
And there by chance a knighte shee mett,
Which caused her to staye.
'Good morrowe to you, beauteous maide,'
These words pronounced hee;
'O I shall dye this daye,' he sayd,
'If Ive not my wille of thee.'
'The Lord forbid,' the maide replyde,
'That you shold waxe so wode!'
But for all that shee could do or saye,
'He wold not be withstood.'
'Sith you have had your wille of mee,
And put me to open shame,
Now, if you are a courteous knighte,
Tell me what is your name?'
'Some do call mee Jacke, sweet heart,
And some do call me Jille;
But when I come to the kings fair courte,
They calle me Wilfulle Wille.'
He sett his foot into the stirrup,
And awaye then he did ride;
She tuckt her girdle about her middle,
And ranne close by his side.
But when she came to the brode water,
She sett her brest and swamme;
And when she was got out againe,
She tooke to her heels and ranne.
He never was the courteous knighte,
To saye, 'Faire maide, will ye ride?'
'And she was ever too loving a maide
To saye, 'Sir Knighte, abide.''
When she came to the kings faire courte,
She knocked at the ring:
So readye was the king himself
To let this faire maid in.
'Now Christ you save, my gracious liege,
Now Christ you save and see;
You have a knighte within your courte
This daye hath robbed mee.'
'What hath he robbed thee of, sweet heart?
Of purple or of pall?
Or hath he took thy gaye gold ring
From off thy finger small?'
'He hath not robbed mee, my liege,
Of purple nor of pall;
But he hath gotten my maiden-head,
Which grieves mee worst of all.'
'Now if he be a batchelor,
His bodye Ile give to thee;
But if he be a married man,
High hanged he shall bee.'
He called downe his merrye men all,
By one, by two, by three;
Sir William used to bee the first,
But nowe the last came hee.
He brought her downe fulle fortye pounde,
Tyed up withinne a glove:
'Faire maid, Ile give the same to thee;
Go seeke thee another love.'
'O Ile have none of your gold,' she sayde,
'Nor Ile have none of your fee;
But your faire bodye I must have,
The king hath granted mee.'
Sir William ranne and fetchd her then
Five hundred pound in golde,
Saying, 'Faire maide, take this to thee,
Thy fault will never be tolde.'
'Tis not the gold that shall mee tempt,'
These words then answered shee,
'But your own bodye I must have,
The king hath granted mee.'
'Would I had dranke the water cleare,
When I did drink the wine,
Rather than any shepherds brat
Shold bee a ladye of mine!
'Would I had drank the puddle foule,
When I did drink the ale,
Rather that ever a shepherds brat
Shold tell me such a tale!'
'A shepherds brat even as I was,
You mote have let mee bee;
I never had come to the kings faire courte,
To crave any love of thee.'
He sett her on a milk-white steede,
And himself upon a graye;
He hung a bugle about his necke,
And soe they rode awaye.
But when they came unto the place,
Where marriage-rites were done,
She proved herself a dukes daughter,
And he but a squires sonne.
'Now marrye me, or not, Sir Knight,
Your pleasure shall be free:
If you make me ladye of one good towne,
Ile make you lord of three.'
'Ah! cursed bee the gold;' he sayd,
'If thou hadst not been trewe,
I shold have forsaken my sweet love,
And have changed her for a newe.'
And now their hearts being linked fast,
They joyned hand in hande:
Thus he had both purse, and person too,
And all at his commande.
I.
IN old Shuil Donald's cottage there are many voices weeping,
And stifled sobs, and murmurings of sorrow wild and vain,
For the old man's cherish'd blessing on her bed of death lies sleeping,--
The sleep from which no human wish can rouse her soul again.
Oh, dark are now those gentle eyes which shone beneath their lashes
So full of laughter and of love--it seems but yesterday--
Well may Shuil Donald mourn beside his hearth's forsaken ashes,
His lily of the valley is wither'd away!
II.
The spring shall come to other hearts with breezes and with showers,
But lonely winter still shall reign in old Shuil Donald's home;
Others may raise the song of joy, and laugh away the hours,
But he--oh! never more may joy to his lone dwelling come.
Her name shall be an empty sound, in idle converse spoken,
Forgotten shall she be by those who mourn her most to-day--
All, all but one, who wanders with his Highland spirit broken,
His lily of the valley is wither'd away!
III.
And he--long, long, at even-tide, when sunset rays are gleaming,
That sad old man shall sit within his lonely cottage door,
Desolate, desolate shall sit, and muse with idle dreaming
On days when her returning step came quick across the moor.
Oh! never more her quiet smile, her cheerful voice of greeting,
Shall rouse to warmth his aged heart, when darkly sinks the day--
Never, oh! never more on earth those loved ones may be meeting--
His lily of the valley is wither'd away!
Es heult der Sturm, die Nacht ist graus,
Die Lampe schimmert im Müllerhaus.
Da schleichen drei Räuber wild und stumm -
Husch, husch, pist, pist! - ums Haus herum.
Die Müllerstochter spinnt allein,
Drei Räuber schaun zum Fenster herein.
Der zweite will Blut, der dritte will Gold,
Der erste, der ist dem Mädel hold.
The storm wind howls - a grisly night;
The lamp in the mill is twinkling bright.
Three robbers are sneaking, wild and still -
hush, hush, whist, whist! - around the mill.
The miller's daughter sits and spins.
There! In the window - three evil grins!
The second wants blood, the third wants gold,
The first is after the maiden bold.
It is the miller's daughter,
And she is grown so dear, so dear,
That I would be the jewel
That trembles in her ear:
For hid in ringlets day and night,
I'd touch her neck so warm and white.
And I would be the girdle
About her dainty dainty waist,
And her heart would beat against me,
In sorrow and in rest:
And I should know if it beat right,
I'd clasp it round so close and tight.
And I would be the necklace,
And all day long to fall and rise
Upon her balmy bosom,
With her laughter or her sighs:
And I would lie so light, so light,
I scarce should be unclasp'd at night.
SHE is yet a child in years,
Twelve springs are on her face,
Yet in her slender form appears
The woman's perfect grace.
Her silken hair, that glossy black,
But only to be found
There, or upon the raven's back,
Falls sweeping to the ground.
'Tis parted in two shining braids
With silver and with gold,
And one large pearl by contrast aids
The darkness of each fold.
And for she is so young, that flowers
Seem natural to her now,
There wreaths the champac's snowy showers
Around her sculptured brow.
Close to her throat the silvery vest
By shining clasps is bound,
Scarce may her graceful shape be guest,
Mid drapery floating round.
But the small curve of that veined throat,
Like marble, but more warm,
The fairy foot and hand denote
How perfect is the form.
Upon the ankle and the wrist
There is a band of gold,
No step by Grecian fountain kiss'd,
Was of diviner mould.
In the bright girdle round her waist,
Where the red rubies shine,
The kandjar's glittering hilt is placed,
To mark her royal line.
Her face is like the moonlight pale,
Strangely and purely fair,
For never summer sun nor gale
Has touched the softness there.
There are no colours of the rose,
Alone the lip is red;
No blush disturbs the sweet repose
Which o'er that cheek is shed.
And yet the large black eyes, like night,
Have passion and have power;
Within their sleepy depths is light
For some wild wakening hour.
A world of sad and tender dreams
'Neath those long lashes sleep,
A native pensiveness that seems
Too still and sweet to weep.
Of such seclusion know we nought:
Yet surely woman here
Grows shrouded from all common thought,
More delicate and dear.
And love, thus made a thing apart,
Must seem the more divine,
When the sweet temple of the heart
Is a thrice-veiled shrine.
King’s daughter sitting in tower so high,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Why weepest thou as the clouds go by?
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Why weepest thou in the window-seat
Till the tears run through thy fingers sweet?
The King’s Daughter.
I weep because I sit alone
Betwixt these walls of lime and stone.
Fair folk are in my father’s hall,
But for me he built this guarded wall.
And here the gold on the green I sew
Nor tidings of my true-love know.
The Raven.
King’s daughter, sitting above the sea,
I shall tell thee a tale shall gladden thee.
Yestreen I saw a ship go forth
When the wind blew merry from the north.
And by the tiller Steingrim sat,
And O, but my heart was glad thereat!
For ’twixt ashen plank and dark blue sea
His sword sang sweet of deeds to be.
The King’s Daughter.
O barren sea, thou bitter bird,
And a barren tale my ears have heard.
The Raven.
Thy father’s men were hard thereby
In byrny bright and helmet high.
The King’s Daughter.
O worser waxeth thy story far,
For these drew upon me bolt and bar.
Fly south, O fowl, to the field of death
For nothing sweet thy grey neb saith.
The Raven.
O, there was Olaf the lily-rose,
As fair as any oak that grows.
The King’s Daughter.
O sweet bird, what did he then
Among the spears of my father’s men?
The Raven.
’Twixt ashen plank and dark blue sea,
He sang: My true love waiteth me.
The King’s Daughter.
As well as this dull floor knows my feet,
I am not weary yet, my sweet.
The Raven.
He sang: As once her hand I had,
Her lips at last shall make me glad.
The King’s Daughter.
As once our fingers met, O love,
So shall our lips be fain thereof.
The Raven.
He sang: Come wrack and iron and flame,
For what shall breach the wall but fame?
The King’s Daughter.
Be swift to rise and set, O Sun,
Lest life ’twixt hope and death be done.
The Raven.
King’s daughter sitting in tower so high,
A gift for my tale ere forth I fly,
The gold from thy finger fair and fine,
Thou hadst it from no love of thine.
The King’s Daughter.
By my father’s ring another there is,
I had it with my mother’s kiss.
Fly forth, O fowl, across the sea
To win another gift of me.
Fly south to bring me tidings true,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Of the eve grown red with the battle-dew,
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
The Raven.
King’s daughter sitting in tower so high,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Tidings to hearken ere thou die,
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
In the Frankish land the spear points met,
And wide about the field was wet.
And high ere the cold moon quenched the sun,
Blew Steingrim’s horn for battle won.
The King’s Daughter.
Fair fall thee fowl! Tell tidings true
Of deeds that men that day did do.
The Raven.
Steingrim before his banner went,
And helms were broke and byrnies rent.
The King’s Daughter.
A doughty man and good at need;
Tell men of any other’s deed?
The Raven.
Where Steingrim through the battle bore
Still Olaf went a foot before.
The King’s Daughter.
O fair with deeds the world doth grow!
Where is my true-love gotten now?
The Raven.
Upon the deck beside the mast
He lieth now, and sleepeth fast.
The King’s Daughter.
Heard’st thou before his sleep began
That he spake word of any man?
The Raven.
Methought of thee he sang a song,
But nothing now he saith for long.
The King’s Daughter.
And wottest thou where he will wend
With the world before him from end to end?
The Raven.
Before the battle joined that day
Steingrim a word to him did say:
“If we bring the banner back in peace,
In the King’s house much shall my fame increase;
Till there no guarded door shall be
But it shall open straight to me.
Then to the bower we twain shall go
Where thy love the golden seam doth sew.
I shall bring thee in and lay thine hand
About the neck of that lily-wand.
And let the King be lief or loth
One bed that night shall hold you both.”
Now north belike runs Steingrim’s prow,
And the rain and the wind from the south do blow.
The King’s Daughter.
Lo, fowl of death, my mother’s ring,
But the bridal song I must learn to sing.
And fain were I for a space alone,
For O the wind, and the wind doth moan.
And I must array the bridal bed,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
For O the rain, and the rain drifts red!
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Before the day from the night was born,
Fair summer is on many a shield.
She heard the blast of Steingrim’s horn,
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Before the day was waxen fair
Were Steingrim’s feet upon the stair.
“O bolt and bar they fall away,
But heavy are Steingrim’s feet to-day.”
“O heavy the feet of one who bears
The longing of days and the grief of years!
Lie down, lie down, thou lily-wand
That on thy neck I may lay his hand.
Whether the King be lief or loth
To-day one bed shall hold you both.
O thou art still as he is still,
So sore as ye longed to talk your fill.
And good it were that I depart,
Now heart is laid so close to heart.
For sure ye shall talk so left alone
Fair summer is on many a shield.
Of days to be below the stone.”
Fair sing the swans ’twixt firth and field.
Could the creatures help or ease us
Seldom should we think of prayer;
Few, if any, come to Jesus,
Till reduced to self-dispair:
Long we either slight or doubt him,
But when all the means we try,
Prove we cannot do without him,
Then at last to him we cry.
Thus the ruler when his daughter
Suffered much, though Christ was nigh,
Still deferred it, till he thought her
At the very point to die:
Though he mourned for her condition,
He did not entreat the Lord,
Till he found that no physician
But himself, could help afford.
Jesus did not once upbraid him,
That he had no sooner come;
But a gracious answer made him,
And went straitway with him home:
Yet his faith was put to trial
When his servants came, and said,
Though he gave thee no denial,
'Tis too late, the child is dead.
Jesus; to prevent his grieving,
Kindly spoke and eased his pain;
Be not fearful, but believing,
Thou shalt see her live again:
When he found the people weeping,
Cease, he said, no longer mourn;
For she is not dead, but sleeping,
Then they laughed him to scorn.
O thou meek and lowly Savior,
How determined is thy love!
Not this rude unkind behavior,
Could thy gracious purpose move:
Soon as he the room had entered,
Spoke, and took her by the hand;
Death at once his prey surrendered,
And she lived at his command.
Fear not then, distressed believer,
Venture on his mighty name;
He is able to deliver,
And his love is still the same
Can his pity or his power,
Suffer thee to pray in vain;
Wait but his appointed hour,
And thy suit thou shalt obtain.
It was the pleasant harvest time,
When cellar-bins are closely stowed,
And garrets bend beneath their load,
And the old swallow-haunted barns -
Brown-gabled, long, and full of seams
Through which the moted sunlight streams,
And winds blow freshly in, to shake
The red plumes of the roosted cocks,
And the loose hay-mow's scented locks -
Are filled with summer's ripened stores,
Its odorous grass and barley sheaves,
From their low scaffolds to their eaves.
On Esek Harden's oaken floor,
With many an autmn threshing worn,
Lay the heaped ears of unhusked corn.
And thither came young men and maids,
Beneath a moon that, large and low,
Lit that sweet eve of long ago.
They took their places; some by chance,
And others by a merry voice
Or sweet smile guided to their choice.
How pleasantly the rising moon,
Between the shadow of the mows,
Looked on them through the great elm-boughs! -
On sturdy boyhood sun-embrowned,
On girlhood with its solid curves
Of healthful strength and painless nerves!
And jests went round, and laughs that made
The house-dog answer with his howl,
And kept astir the barn-yard fowl;
And quaint old songs their fathers sung
In Derby dales and Yorkshire moors,
Ere Norman William trod their shores;
And tales, whose merry license shook
The fat sides of the Saxon thane,
Forgetful of the hovering Dane,—­
Rude plays to Celt and Cimbri known,
The charms and riddles that beguiled
On Oxus’ banks the young world’s child,—­
That primal picture-speech wherein
Have youth and maid the story told,
So new in each, so dateless old,
Recalling pastoral Ruth in her
Who waited, blushing and demure,
The red-ear’s kiss of forfeiture.
But still the sweetest voice was mute
That river-valley ever heard
From lips of maid or throat of bird;
For Mabel Martin sat apart,
And let the hay-mow’s shadow fall
Upon the loveliest face of all.
She sat apart, as one forbid,
Who knew that none would condescend
To own the Witch-wife’s child a friend.
The seasons scarce had gone their round,
Since curious thousands thronged to see
Her mother at the gallows-tree;
And mocked the prison-palsied limbs
That faltered on the fatal stairs,
And wan lip trembling with its prayers!
Few questioned of the sorrowing child,
Or, when they saw the mother die;
Dreamed of the daughter’s agony.
They went up to their homes that day,
As men and Christians justified
God willed it, and the wretch had died!
Dear God and Father of us all,
Forgive our faith in cruel lies,—­
Forgive the blindness that denies!
Forgive thy creature when he takes,
For the all-perfect love Thou art,
Some grim creation of his heart.
Cast down our idols, overturn
Our bloody altars; let us see
Thyself in Thy humanity!
Poor Mabel from her mother’s grave
Crept to her desolate hearth-stone,
And wrestled with her fate alone;
With love, and anger, and despair,
The phantoms of disordered sense,
The awful doubts of Providence!
The school-boys jeered her as they passed,
And, when she sought the house of prayer,
Her mother's curse pursued her there.
And still o'er many a neighboring door
She saw the horseshoe's curved charm,
To guard against her mother's harm; -
That mother, poor, and sick, and lame,
Who daily, by the old arm-chair,
Folded her withered hands in prayer; -
Who turned, in Salem's dreary jail,
Her worn old Bible o'er and o'er,
When her dim eyes could read no more!
Sore tried and pained, the poor girl kept
Her faith, and trusted that her way,
So dark, would somewhere meet the day.
And still her weary wheel went round
Day after day, with no relief
Small leisure have the poor for grief.
So in the shadow Mabel sits;
Untouched by mirth she sees and hears,
Her smile is sadder than her tears.
But cruel eyes have found her out,
And cruel lips repeat her name,
And taunt her with her mother's shame.
She answered not with railing words,
But drew her apron o'er her face,
And, sobbing, glided from the place.
And only pausing at the door,
Her sad eyes met the troubled gaze
Of one who, in her better days,
Had been her warm and steady friend,
Ere yet her mother's doom had made
Even Esek Harden half afraid.
He felt that mute appeal of tears,
And, starting, with an angry frown,
Hushed all the wicked murmurs down.
'Good neighbors mine,' he sternly said,
'This passes harmless mirth or jest;
I brook no insult to my guest.
'She is indeed her mother's child;
But God's sweet pity ministers
Unto no whiter soul than hers.
'Let Goody Martin rest in peace;
I never knew her harm a fly,
And witch or not, God knows - not I.
'I know who swore her life away;
And as God lives, I'd not condemn
An Indian dog on word of them.'
The broadest lands in all the town,
The skill to guide, the power to awe,
Were Harden's; and his word was law.
None dared withstand him to his face,
But one sly maiden spake aside
'The little witch is evil-eyed!
'Her mother only killed a cow,
Or witched a churn or dairy-pan;
But she, forsooth, must charm a man!'
Poor Mabel, in her lonely home,
Sat by the window's narrow pane,
White in the moonlight's silver rain.
The river, on its pebbled rim,
Made music such as childhood knew;
The door-yard tree was whispered through
By voices such as childhood's ear
Had heard in moonlights long ago;
And through the willow-boughs below.
She saw the rippled waters shine;
Beyond, in waves of shade and light,
The hills rolled off into the night.
She saw and heard, but over all
A sense of some transforming spell,
The shadow of her sick heart fell.
And still across the wooded space
The harvest lights of Harden shone,
And song and jest and laugh went on.
And he, so gentle, true, and strong,
Of men the bravest and the best,
Had he, too, scorned her with the rest?
She strove to drown her sense of wrong,
And, in her old and simple way,
To teach her bitter heart to pray.
Poor child! the prayer, begun in faith,
Grew to a low, despairing cry
Of utter misery: 'Let me die!
'Oh! take me from the scornful eyes,
And hide me where the cruel speech
And mocking finger may not reach!
'I dare not breathe my mother's name
A daughter's right I dare not crave
To weep above her unblest grave!
'Let me not live until my heart,
With few to pity, and with none
To love me, hardens into stone.
'O God! have mercy on Thy child,
Whose faith in Thee grows weak and small,
And take me ere I lose it all!'
A shadow on the moonlight fell,
And murmuring wind and wave became
A voice whose burden was her name.
Had then God heard her? Had He sent
His angel down? In flesh and blood,
Before her Esek Harden stood!
He laid his hand upon her arm
'Dear Mabel, this no more shall be;
Who scoffs at you must scoff at me.
'You know rough Esek Harden well;
And if he seems no suitor gay,
And if his hair is touched with gray,
'The maiden grown shall never find
His heart less warm than when she smiled,
Upon his knees, a little child!'
Her tears of grief were tears of joy,
As, folded in his strong embrace,
She looked in Esek Harden's face.
'O truest friend of all'' she said,
'God bless you for your kindly thought,
And make me worthy of my lot!'
He led her through his dewy fields,
To where the swinging lanterns glowed,
And through the doors the huskers showed.
'Good friends and neighbors!' Esek said,
'I'm weary of this lonely life;
In Mabel see my chosen wife!
'She greets you kindly, one and all;
The past is past, and all offence
Falls harmless from her innocence.
'Henceforth she stands no more alone;
You know what Esek Harden is: -
He brooks no wrong to him or his.'
Now let the merriest tales be told,
And let the sweetest songs be sung
That ever made the old heart young!
For now the lost has found a home;
And a lone hearth shall brighter burn,
As all the household joys return!
Oh, pleasantly the harvest-moon,
Between the shadow of the mows,
Looked on them through the great elm-boughs!
On Mabel's curls of golden hair,
On Esek's shaggy strength it fell;
And the wind whispered, 'It is well!'
In Gerald's Cottage by the hill,
Old Gerald and his child,
Innocent Maud, dwelt happily;
He toil'd, and she beguiled
The long day at her spinning-wheel,
In the garden now grown wild.
At Gerald's stroke the jay awoke;
Till noon hack follow'd hack,
Before the nearest hill had time
To give its echo back;
And evening mists were in the lane
Ere Gerald's arm grew slack.
Meanwhile, below the scented heaps
Of honeysuckle flower,
That made their simple cottage-porch
A cool, luxurious bower,
Maud sat beside her spinning-wheel,
And spun from hour to hour.
The growing thread thro' her fingers sped;
Round flew the polish'd wheel;
Merrily rang the notes she sang
At every finish'd reel;
From the hill again, like a glad refrain,
Follow'd the rapid peal.
But all is changed. The rusting axe
Reddens a wither'd bough;
A spider spins in the spinning-wheel,
And Maud sings wildly now;
And village gossips say she knows
Grief she may not avow.
Her secret's this: In the sweet age
When heaven's our side the lark,
She follow'd her old father, where
He work'd from dawn to dark,
For months, to thin the crowded groves
Of the old manorial Park.
She fancied and he felt she help'd;
And, whilst he hack'd and saw'd,
The rich Squire's son, a young boy then,
Whole mornings, as if awed,
Stood silent by, and gazed in turn
At Gerald and on Maud.
And sometimes, in a sullen tone,
He offer'd fruits, and she
Received them always with an air
So unreserved and free,
That shame-faced distance soon became
Familiarity.
Therefore in time, when Gerald shook
The woods, no longer coy,
The young heir and the cottage-girl
Would steal out to enjoy
The sound of one another's talk,
A simple girl and boy.
Spring after Spring, they took their walks
Uncheck'd, unquestion'd; yet
They learn'd to hide their wanderings
By wood and rivulet,
Because they could not give themselves
A reason why they met.
Once Maud came weeping back. ‘Poor Child!’
Was all her father said:
And he would steady his old hand
Upon her hapless head,
And think of her as tranquilly
As if the child were dead.
But he is gone: and Maud steals out,
This gentle day of June;
And having sobb'd her pain to sleep,
Help'd by the stream's soft tune,
She rests along the willow-trunk,
Below the calm blue noon.
The shadow of her shame and her
Deep in the stream, behold!
Smiles quake over her parted lips:
Some thought has made her bold;
She stoops to dip her fingers in,
To feel if it be cold.
'Tis soft and warm, and runs as 'twere
Perpetually at play:
But then the stream, she recollects,
Bears everything away.
There is a dull pool hard at hand
That sleeps both night and day.
She marks the closing weeds that shut
The water from her sight;
They stir awhile, but now are still;
Her arms fall down; the light
Is horrible, and her countenance
Is pale as a cloud at night.
Merrily now from the small church-tower
Clashes a noisy chime;
The larks climb up thro' the heavenly blue,
Carolling as they climb:
Is it the twisting water-eft
That dimples the green slime?
The pool reflects the scarlet West
With a hot and guilty glow;
The East is changing ashy pale;
But Maud will never go
While those great bubbles struggle up
From the rotting weeds below.
The light has changed. A little since
You scarcely might descry
The moon, now gleaming sharp and bright,
From the small cloud slumbering nigh;
And, one by one, the timid stars
Step out into the sky.
The night blackens the pool; but Maud
Is constant at her post,
Sunk in a dread, unnatural sleep,
Beneath the skiey host
Of drifting mists, thro' which the moon
Is riding like a ghost.
Yes, we get blasé and dismissive on this site –
reading in the reams of Poemhunter posts
‘yet another poem of teenage angst’,
we say, scanning the raw wounds
too rough for poetry – but what else
will ease the pain?
‘I thought we loved each other for ever –
how could you do this to me? …’
we nod our older heads, remembering
just slightly, as if it doesn’t really matter now,
how it was for us…
but then, who writes of happiness,
when happiness seems eternal, hope untested,
and life is to be lived?
that first heartbreak … it seems
there has to be a first one;
a worst one; and only poetry
can begin to salve the wound..
at least you’ve got your poetry..
yes, reams of poems, and all much the same –
but this time, it’s from someone that I know,
and that – that really hurts.. it’s almost worse
than if it happened to me myself – in that
there’s nothing I can say, that’s not been said
a million times.. and a million times, she's said
‘You just don’t understand…’ and of course, she’s right –
it’s the first time in the world, her world,
that this has ever happened…
I’ll say nothing more than what I’ve said;
than what your parents and your sisters say; for,
how can time heal, when there’s no time for time?
(and how could I dare to voice to you the thought –
your poetry will deepen when your heartbreak heals? ...)
All night long the hockey pictures
gaze down at you
sleeping in your tracksuit.
Belligerent goalies are your ideal.
Threats of being traded
cuts and wounds
--all this pleases you.
O my god! you say at breakfast
reading the sports page over the Alpen
as another player breaks his ankle
or assaults the coach.
When I thought of daughters
I wasn't expecting this
but I like this more.
I like all your faults
even your purple moods
when you retreat from everyone
to sit in bed under a quilt.
And when I say 'like'
I mean of course 'love'
but that embarrasses you.
You who feel superior to black and white movies
(coaxed for hours to see Casablanca)
though you were moved
by Creature from the Black Lagoon.
One day I'll come swimming
beside your ship or someone will
and if you hear the siren
listen to it. For if you close your ears
only nothing happens. You will never change.
I don't care if you risk
your life to angry goalies
creatures with webbed feet.
You can enter their caves and castles
their glass laboratories. Just
don't be fooled by anyone but yourself.
This is the first lecture I've given you.
You're 'sweet sixteen' you said.
I'd rather be your closest friend
than your father. I'm not good at advice
you know that, but ride
the ceremonies
until they grow dark.
Sometimes you are so busy
discovering your friends
I ache with loss
--but that is greed.
And sometimes I've gone
into my purple world
and lost you.
One afternoon I stepped
into your room. You were sitting
at the desk where I now write this.
Forsythia outside the window
and sun spilled over you
like a thick yellow miracle
as if another planet
was coaxing you out of the house
--all those possible worlds!--
and you, meanwhile, busy with mathematics.
I cannot look at forsythia now
without loss, or joy for you.
You step delicately
into the wild world
and your real prize will be
the frantic search.
Want everything. If you break
break going out not in.
How you live your life I don't care
but I'll sell my arms for you,
hold your secrets forever.
If I speak of death
which you fear now, greatly,
it is without answers.
except that each
one we know is
in our blood.
Don't recall graves.
Memory is permanent.
Remember the afternoon's
yellow suburban annunciation.
Your goalie
in his frightening mask
dreams perhaps
of gentleness.
When you were born it was an instant love affair
I rocked you, swaddled you, sang to you,
Read to you and walked you round and round
We played and learned together.
I held your little hands from your first steps
To the back of the bicycle seat on your first ride
Doctored up scraped knees and bruised egos
Played the Tooth fairy, Easter Bunny and Santa Claus
When life took you through a challenge
I held you in my arms as you cried
We wiped the tears and stood up tall
Ready to face the world again
Late one night when I was awakened by the sounds
Of giggles coming from the adjacent room
I could've be upset that you had woken me
But the sound of your laughter made me smile
You were so late coming home one night
I cried at the thought of something happening to you
I was so angry that you hadn’t called
But upon seeing your beautiful face, all I could be was grateful
Now you’re ready to spread your wings
All of our trials and tribulations are ancient history
Go now my love into the world
Make your mark and shine your light
You have been the source of my greatest joy
From your baby coos to your big girl shoes
Always remember who you are
You have always been my brightest star
O little one, daughter, my dearest,
With your smiles and your beautiful curls,
And your laughter, the brightest and clearest,
O gravest and gayest of girls;
With your hands that are softer than roses,
And your lips that are lighter than flowers,
And that innocent brow that discloses
A wisdom more lovely than ours;
With your locks that encumber, or scatter
In a thousand mercurial gleams,
And those feet whose impetuous patter
I hear and remember in dreams;
With your manner of motherly duty,
When you play with your dolls and are wise;
With your wonders of speech, and the beauty
In your little imperious eyes;
When I hear you so silverly ringing
Your welcome from chamber or stair.
When you run to me, kissing and clinging,
So radiant, so rosily fair;
I bend like an ogre above you;
I bury my face in your curls;
I fold you, I clasp you, I love you.
O baby, queen-blossom of girls!
My child! thou seest me content to lead
A lonely life. Do thou, in imitation,
Not happy, nor triumphant, learn the need
Of resignation.
All guileless be, commercing with the skies,
And as a sun to glorify the whole;
My child, within the azure of thine eyes,
Put thou thy soul.
For none are happy, none triumphant here;
To all their little span is incomplete.
Our life is but a shadow, and, my dear,
The shadows fleet.
Yes! of their weary lot all men complain.
To happiness, oh! strange and cruel fate,
All things are wanting, all! we seek in vain,
Or find too late.
What are the boons we crave, each for his part,
The hope of which doth still our hearts beguile?
Renown and wealth, a word, a woman’s heart,
A loving smile.
Mirth, to the unloved king, is wanting still;
A drop of water to Sahara’s plain;
Man’s heart is like a well, which, as we fill,
But dries again.
Behold those thinkers whom we idolize,
Those heroes whose command we gladly own,
Whose names illuminate our somber skies—
Where are they flown?
They rose like meteors through the wintry air,
And dazzled for a moment every eye;
Then sunk into the careless grave, and there
In darkness lie.
Kind Heaven, that knows our bitter griefs and fears,
Takes pity on our vain and empty days,
And bathes each morning with refreshing tears
Our dusty ways.
One only law there is, so just and mild,
Of which each honest heart must own the sway:
To pity, nothing hate, and, oh! my child,
To love alway.
WHILE deep you mourn beneath the cypress-shade
The hand of Death, and your dear daughter
laid
In dust, whose absence gives your tears to flow,
And racks your bosom with incessant woe,
Let Recollection take a tender part,
Assuage the raging tortures of your heart,
Still the wild tempest of tumultuous grief,
And pour the heav'nly nectar of relief:
Suspend the sigh, dear Sir, and check the groan,
Divinely bright your daughter's Virtues shone:
How free from scornful pride her gentle mind,
Which ne'er its aid to indigence declin'd!
Expanding free, it sought the means to prove
Unfailing charity, unbounded love!
She unreluctant flies to see no more
Her dear-lov'd parents on earth's dusky shore:
Impatient heav'n's resplendent goal to gain,
She with swift progress cuts the azure plain,
Where grief subsides, where changes are no more,
And life's tumultuous billows cease to roar;
She leaves her earthly mansion for the skies,
Where new creations feast her wond'ring eyes.
To heav'n's high mandate cheerfully resign'd
She mounts, and leaves the rolling globe behind;
She, who late wish'd that Leonard might return,
Has ceas'd to languish, and forgot to mourn;
To the same high empyreal mansions come,
She joins her spouse, and smiles upon the tomb:
And thus I hear her from the realms above:
"Lo! this the kingdom of celestial love!
"Could ye, fond parents, see our present bliss,
"How soon would you each sigh, each fear dismiss?
"Amidst unutter'd pleasures whilst I play
"In the fair sunshine of celestial day,
"As far as grief affects an happy soul
"So far doth grief my better mind controul,
"To see on earth my aged parents mourn,
"And secret wish for T-----! to return:
"Let brighter scenes your ev'ning-hours employ:
"Converse with heav'n, and taste the promis'd joy"
Bles't bee thy Name, who did'st restore
To health my Daughter dear
When death did seem ev'n to approach,
And life was ended near.
Gravnt shee remember what thov'st done,
And celebrate thy Praise;
And let her Conversation say,
Shee loues thee all thy Dayes.
She’s a joy she’s an angel’ well that’s what she thinks
She clings on to your heart like a plug to a sink
She drives you all crazy with make believe games
She’ll have you believe that fairies fly planes
She often comes in with imaginary friends
And can draw on their dads with permanent pens
She has pretty parties with dolls as her mates
But then runs straight out and she swings on the gate
She listens to stories of love and romance
Then shoves a live frog in her best friends pants
At night when asleep the angels go quiet
I often do think that she could start a riot
She looks like a princess all said and done
And Uses mums lipstick to draw a big sun
All over the walls and down the settee
Her face is alive and she giggles with glee
Its then that you have to be strong and quite firm
For if you stand back she will never quite learn
And learn things she does most every day
She learns how to get thing her very own way
She came into your life and captured your heart
And then from that time you won’t stay apart
You may keep your son till he finds a good wife
But your daughters your daughter for all of her life
She turns 11 tomorrow.
and she says to me:
'Do babies come really
from there? '
That finger was much too low;
not my belly
but way below
and I froze-
between the lie
and her need to know
truth.
She,
eyes wide
'do they really come
from your thingie? '
I said
'yes, but...'
She interrupted
eyes wide
'but that's too small'
I could she her measuring
a little baby
with her tiny thingie
and she asked
'how can it come out?
'
'It'll stretch' I said
'don't worry
people have babies every day.'
'Did you stretch? ' she said.
'Yes, I did and you came out fine.'
Her eyes darted low
trying to visualize.
'Did it hurt? '
'Well yes but you know dear
I had some drugs and it was ok.
'
'Like aspirin? '
'Yes, sort of like aspirin but
much stronger.'
'So is there is pain..nnn? '
She stretched the word out.
'Yes, there is
but aspirin drugs
make it so it is not so bad.'
She said
'And that's because it goes inside? '
'What? '
'The baby comes because the boy's
thingie
goes inside your thingie? '
'Goes inside? '
I said
'Yes, does the boy thingie go inside the girl's thingie?
Inside' she repeated for emphasis.
'Well yes, if they are in love. That should only happen if they
are in love and married.'
'Oh.'
'If they are not married or in love does that mean a baby won't come? '
'Well, yes a baby can come even if they are not married or in love.'
'Mom' she said her eyes really wide. It goes inside? '
'Yes, '
'Does it hurt? '
'Well at first, it does hurt but after a while it feels good.'
'After a while-'
You mean you have to do it again so as to make it stop hurting? '
No, not exactly, I mean after a while you get used to it and it doesn't hurt.'
'What does it feel like? '
Huh? Feel like?
'Feel like, you know, feel like.'
'Oh, ' I said 'that is very private.
Only you and your husband should know
what it feels like but I can tell you it is very special.
A very special feeling
unlike any thing in the world.'
'Anything in the world? '
Yes, very special. It is God's way of making a baby and you know how
special babies are.'
She nodded.
And so my daughter learned from me
what her biology was telling her,
what those feelings inside meant
and I pray she has her special day,
her special tomorrow
with something special
that she will recall from me.
The moment you were born, you announced
Your arrival in our family, screaming out loud
Now that I am here, attention is my birth right.
Of course, we catered to you day and night.
No sooner had the nurse brought you
And put you in my arms, I knew
As you looked at me from your yellow
Bonnet, you were going to be a handful.
Once you brought the roof down
At midnight, and just to drown
Your screams, your dad put on rock music
To our surprise you slept looking cherubic.
That morning thoughtfully, I dispensed with
DR Spock and other self help books, I think.
As I realised that night, you were unique
Divine guidance I will have to seek.
You rejected all canned baby food
And threw tantrums, had mercurial moods.
Unpredictable, assertive even as a child
Felt at loss whether to be strict or mild.
Early on, I had to my dismay found
Life was not going to be a merry go round
I hoped with time, you would mellow down,
Hopeless, I would feel drained by Sun down.
Thus the years… not exactly flew.
And before, I knew
You brought home a guy
Grinning broadly saying Hi.
We didn’t snigger, just kept quiet
No point to reason, resist or fight.
Looking us in the eye, you said trust my instincts,
Folks just hurry and send cards for print.
Born rebel, we just had no choice but to accept
Angry, I thought she belong in a home for delinquents.
And to maintain peace at all costs
We blessed the couple and raised a toast.
For once she proved to be right
The guy turned out to be quite bright.
Now she has a one year old baby
Who like little Denise drives her crazy.
One day on a visit, she quizzed
Mom, how did you put up with me?
Darling, we mothers survive,
Just enjoy and let her thrive.
She asked, her eyes filled with a plea
i hope you didn't ask God to punish me?
where did you get this idea, my dear
i know i know, i troubled you for years.
A little soul scarce fledged for earth
Takes wing with heaven again for goal
Even while we hailed as fresh from birth
A little soul.
Our thoughts ring sad as bells that toll,
Not knowing beyond this blind world's girth
What things are writ in heaven's full scroll.
Our fruitfulness is there but dearth,
And all things held in time's control
Seem there, perchance, ill dreams, not worth
A little soul.
The little feet that never trod
Earth, never strayed in field or street,
What hand leads upward back to God
The little feet?
A rose in June's most honied heat,
When life makes keen the kindling sod,
Was not so soft and warm and sweet.
Their pilgrimage's period
A few swift moons have seen complete
Since mother's hands first clasped and shod
The little feet.
The little hands that never sought
Earth's prizes, worthless all as sands,
What gift has death, God's servant, brought
The little hands?
We ask:  but love's self silent stands,
Love, that lends eyes and wings to thought
To search where death's dim heaven expands.
Ere this, perchance, though love know nought,
Flowers fill them, grown in lovelier lands,
Where hands of guiding angels caught
The little hands.
The little eyes that never knew
Light other than of dawning skies,
What new life now lights up anew
The little eyes?
Who knows but on their sleep may rise
Such light as never heaven let through
To lighten earth from Paradise?
No storm, we know, may change the blue
Soft heaven that haply death descries
No tears, like these in ours, bedew
The little eyes.
Was life so strange, so sad the sky,
So strait the wide world's range,
He would not stay to wonder why
Was life so strange?
Was earth's fair house a joyless grange
Beside that house on high
Whence Time that bore him failed to estrange?
That here at once his soul put by
All gifts of time and change,
And left us heavier hearts to sigh
'Was life so strange?'
Angel by name love called him, seeing so fair
The sweet small frame;
Meet to be called, if ever man's child were,
Angel by name.
Rose-bright and warm from heaven's own heart he came,
And might not bear
The cloud that covers earth's wan face with shame.
His little light of life was all too rare
And soft a flame:
Heaven yearned for him till angels hailed him there
Angel by name.
The song that smiled upon his birthday here
Weeps on the grave that holds him undefiled
Whose loss makes bitterer than a soundless tear
The song that smiled.
His name crowned once the mightiest ever styled
Sovereign of arts, and angel:  fate and fear
Knew then their master, and were reconciled.
But we saw born beneath some tenderer sphere
Michael, an angel and a little child,
Whose loss bows down to weep upon his bier
The song that smiled.
Kneel down, fair Love, and fill thyself with tears,
Girdle thyself with sighing for a girth
Upon the sides of mirth,
Cover thy lips and eyelids, let thine ears
Be filled with rumour of people sorrowing;
Make thee soft raiment out of woven sighs
Upon the flesh to cleave,
Set pains therein and many a grievous thing,
And many sorrows after each his wise
For armlet and for gorget and for sleeve.
O Love's lute heard about the lands of death,
Left hanged upon the trees that were therein;
O Love and Time and Sin,
Three singing mouths that mourn now underbreath,
Three lovers, each one evil spoken of;
O smitten lips wherethrough this voice of mine
Came softer with her praise;
Abide a little for our lady's love.
The kisses of her mouth were more than wine,
And more than peace the passage of her days.
O Love, thou knowest if she were good to see.
O Time, thou shalt not find in any land
Till, cast out of thine hand,
The sunlight and the moonlight fail from thee,
Another woman fashioned like as this.
O Sin, thou knowest that all thy shame in her
Was made a goodly thing;
Yea, she caught Shame and shamed him with her kiss,
With her fair kiss, and lips much lovelier
Than lips of amorous roses in late spring.
By night there stood over against my bed
Queen Venus with a hood striped gold and black,
Both sides drawn fully back
From brows wherein the sad blood failed of red,
And temples drained of purple and full of death.
Her curled hair had the wave of sea-water
And the sea's gold in it.
Her eyes were as a dove's that sickeneth.
Strewn dust of gold she had shed over her,
And pearl and purple and amber on her feet.
Upon her raiment of dyed sendaline
Were painted all the secret ways of love
And covered things thereof,
That hold delight as grape-flowers hold their wine;
Red mouths of maidens and red feet of doves,
And brides that kept within the bride-chamber
Their garment of soft shame,
And weeping faces of the wearied loves
That swoon in sleep and awake wearier,
With heat of lips and hair shed out like flame.
The tears that through her eyelids fell on me
Made mine own bitter where they ran between
As blood had fallen therein,
She saying; Arise, lift up thine eyes and see
If any glad thing be or any good
Now the best thing is taken forth of us;
Even she to whom all praise
Was as one flower in a great multitude,
One glorious flower of many and glorious,
One day found gracious among many days:
Even she whose handmaiden was Love--to whom
At kissing times across her stateliest bed
Kings bowed themselves and shed
Pale wine, and honey with the honeycomb,
And spikenard bruised for a burnt-offering;
Even she between whose lips the kiss became
As fire and frankincense;
Whose hair was as gold raiment on a king,
Whose eyes were as the morning purged with flame,
Whose eyelids as sweet savour issuing thence.
Then I beheld, and lo on the other side
My lady's likeness crowned and robed and dead.
Sweet still, but now not red,
Was the shut mouth whereby men lived and died.
And sweet, but emptied of the blood's blue shade,
The great curled eyelids that withheld her eyes.
And sweet, but like spoilt gold,
The weight of colour in her tresses weighed.
And sweet, but as a vesture with new dyes,
The body that was clothed with love of old.
Ah! that my tears filled all her woven hair
And all the hollow bosom of her gown--
Ah! that my tears ran down
Even to the place where many kisses were,
Even where her parted breast-flowers have place,
Even where they are cloven apart--who knows not this?
Ah! the flowers cleave apart
And their sweet fills the tender interspace;
Ah! the leaves grown thereof were things to kiss
Ere their fine gold was tarnished at the heart.
Ah! in the days when God did good to me,
Each part about her was a righteous thing;
Her mouth an almsgiving,
The glory of her garments charity,
The beauty of her bosom a good deed,
In the good days when God kept sight of us;
Love lay upon her eyes,
And on that hair whereof the world takes heed;
And all her body was more virtuous
Than souls of women fashioned otherwise.
Now, ballad, gather poppies in thine hands
And sheaves of brier and many rusted sheaves
Rain-rotten in rank lands,
Waste marigold and late unhappy leaves
And grass that fades ere any of it be mown;
And when thy bosom is filled full thereof
Seek out Death's face ere the light altereth,
And say "My master that was thrall to Love
Is become thrall to Death."
Bow down before him, ballad, sigh and groan.
But make no sojourn in thy outgoing;
For haply it may be
That when thy feet return at evening
Death shall come in with thee.
860
Absence disembodies—so does Death
Hiding individuals from the Earth
Superposition helps, as well as love—
Tenderness decreases as we prove—
After that hot gospeller has levelled all but the churched sky,
I wrote the tale by tallow of a city's death by fire;
Under a candle's eye, that smoked in tears, I
Wanted to tell, in more than wax, of faiths that were snapped like wire.
All day I walked abroad among the rubbled tales,
Shocked at each wall that stood on the street like a liar;
Loud was the bird-rocked sky, and all the clouds were bales
Torn open by looting, and white, in spite of the fire.
By the smoking sea, where Christ walked, I asked, why
Should a man wax tears, when his wooden world fails?
In town, leaves were paper, but the hills were a flock of faiths;
To a boy who walked all day, each leaf was a green breath
Rebuilding a love I thought was dead as nails,
Blessing the death and the baptism by fire.
1918
This is the State above the Law.
The State exists for the State alone."
[This is a gland at the back of the jaw,
And an answering lump by the collar-bone.]
Some die shouting in gas or fire;
Some die silent, by shell and shot.
Some die desperate, caught on the wire -
Some die suddenly. This will not.
"Regis suprema voluntas Lex"
[It will follow the regular course of--throats.]
Some die pinned by the broken decks,
Some die sobbing between the boats.
Some die eloquent, pressed to death
By the sliding trench as their friends can hear
Some die wholly in half a breath.
Some--give trouble for half a year.
"There is neither Evil nor Good in life
Except as the needs of the State ordain."
[Since it is rather too late for the knife,
All we can do is to mask the pain.]
Some die saintly in faith and hope--
One died thus in a prison-yard--
Some die broken by rape or the rope;
Some die easily. This dies hard.
"I will dash to pieces who bar my way.
Woe to the traitor! Woe to the weak! "
[Let him write what he wishes to say.
It tires him out if he tries to speak.]
Some die quietly. Some abound
In loud self-pity. Others spread
Bad morale through the cots around .
This is a type that is better dead.
"The war was forced on me by my foes.
All that I sought was the right to live."
[Don't be afraid of a triple dose;
The pain will neutralize all we give.
Here are the needles. See that he dies
While the effects of the drug endure. . . .
What is the question he asks with his eyes?--
Yes, All-Highest, to God, be sure.]
816
A Death blow is a Life blow to Some
Who till they died, did not alive become—
Who had they lived, had died but when
They died, Vitality begun.
"O day! he cannot die
When thou so fair art shining!
O Sun, in such a glorious sky,
So tranquilly declining;
He cannot leave thee now,
While fresh west winds are blowing,
And all around his youthful brow
Thy cheerful light is glowing!
Edward, awake, awake -
The golden evening gleams
Warm and bright on Arden's lake -
Arouse thee from thy dreams!
Beside thee, on my knee,
My dearest friend! I pray
That thou, to cross the eternal sea,
Wouldst yet one hour delay:
I hear its billows roar -
I see them foaming high;
But no glimpse of a further shore
Has blest my straining eye.
Believe not what they urge
Of Eden isles beyond;
Turn back, from that tempestuous surge,
To thy own native land.
It is not death, but pain
That struggles in thy breast -
Nay, rally, Edward, rouse again;
I cannot let thee rest!"
One long look, that sore reproved me
For the woe I could not bear -
One mute look of suffering moved me
To repent my useless prayer:
And, with sudden check, the heaving
Of distraction passed away;
Not a sign of further grieving
Stirred my soul that awful day.
Paled, at length, the sweet sun setting;
Sunk to peace the twilight breeze:
Summer dews fell softly, wetting
Glen, and glade, and silent trees.
Then his eyes began to weary,
Weighed beneath a mortal sleep;
And their orbs grew strangely dreary,
Clouded, even as they would weep.
But they wept not, but they changed not,
Never moved, and never closed;
Troubled still, and still they ranged not -
Wandered not, nor yet reposed!
So I knew that he was dying -
Stooped, and raised his languid head;
Felt no breath, and heard no sighing,
So I knew that he was dead.
I DREAMED that one had died in a strange place
Near no accustomed hand,
And they had nailed the boards above her face,
The peasants of that land,
Wondering to lay her in that solitude,
And raised above her mound
A cross they had made out of two bits of wood,
And planted cypress round;
And left her to the indifferent stars above
Until I carved these words:
i{She was more beautiful than thy first love,}
i{But now lies under boards.}
Now while my lips are living
Their words must stay unsaid,
And will my soul remember
To speak when I am dead?
Yet if my soul remembered
You would not heed it, dear,
For now you must not listen,
And then you could not hear.
Through airy roads he wings his instant flight
To purer regions of celestial light;
Enlarg'd he sees unnumber'd systems roll,
Beneath him sees the universal whole,
Planets on planets run their destin'd round,
And circling wonders fill the vast profound.
Th' ethereal now, and now th' empyreal skies
With growing splendors strike his wond'ring eyes:
The angels view him with delight unknown,
Press his soft hand, and seat him on his throne;
Then smilling thus: 'To this divine abode,
'The seat of saints, of seraphs, and of God,
'Thrice welcome thou.'  The raptur'd babe replies,
'Thanks to my God, who snatch'd me to the skies,
'E'er vice triumphant had possess'd my heart,
'E'er yet the tempter had beguil d my heart,
'E'er yet on sin's base actions I was bent,
'E'er yet I knew temptation's dire intent;
'E'er yet the lash for horrid crimes I felt,
'E'er vanity had led my way to guilt,
'But, soon arriv'd at my celestial goal,
'Full glories rush on my expanding soul.'
Joyful he spoke: exulting cherubs round
Clapt their glad wings, the heav'nly vaults resound.
Say, parents, why this unavailing moan?
Why heave your pensive bosoms with the groan?
To Charles, the happy subject of my song,
A brighter world, and nobler strains belong.
Say would you tear him from the realms above
By thoughtless wishes, and prepost'rous love?
Doth his felicity increase your pain?
Or could you welcome to this world again
The heir of bliss? with a superior air
Methinks he answers with a smile severe,
'Thrones and dominions cannot tempt me there.'
But still you cry, 'Can we the sigh borbear,
'And still and still must we not pour the tear?
'Our only hope, more dear than vital breath,
'Twelve moons revolv'd, becomes the prey of death;
'Delightful infant, nightly visions give
'Thee to our arms, and we with joy receive,
'We fain would clasp the Phantom to our breast,
'The Phantom flies, and leaves the soul unblest.'
To yon bright regions let your faith ascend,
Prepare to join your dearest infant friend
In pleasures without measure, without end.
749
All but Death, can be Adjusted—
Dynasties repaired—
Systems—settled in their Sockets—
Citadels—dissolved—
Wastes of Lives—resown with Colors
By Succeeding Springs—
Death—unto itself—Exception—
Is exempt from Change—
And death shall have no dominion.
Dead man naked they shall be one
With the man in the wind and the west moon;
When their bones are picked clean and the clean bones gone,
They shall have stars at elbow and foot;
Though they go mad they shall be sane,
Though they sink through the sea they shall rise again;
Though lovers be lost love shall not;
And death shall have no dominion.
And death shall have no dominion.
Under the windings of the sea
They lying long shall not die windily;
Twisting on racks when sinews give way,
Strapped to a wheel, yet they shall not break;
Faith in their hands shall snap in two,
And the unicorn evils run them through;
Split all ends up they shan't crack;
And death shall have no dominion.
And death shall have no dominion.
No more may gulls cry at their ears
Or waves break loud on the seashores;
Where blew a flower may a flower no more
Lift its head to the blows of the rain;
Though they be mad and dead as nails,
Heads of the characters hammer through daisies;
Break in the sun till the sun breaks down,
And death shall have no dominion.
Good people all, of every sort,
Give ear unto my song;
And if you find it wondrous short,
It cannot hold you long.
In Islington there was a man
Of whom the world might say,
That still a godly race he ran—
Whene'er he went to pray.
A kind and gentle heart he had,
To comfort friends and foes;
The naked every day he clad—
When he put on his clothes.
And in that town a dog was found,
As many dogs there be,
Both mongrel, puppy, whelp, and hound,
And curs of low degree.
This dog and man at first were friends;
But when a pique began,
The dog, to gain some private ends,
Went mad, and bit the man.
Around from all the neighbouring streets
The wond'ring neighbours ran,
And swore the dog had lost its wits
To bite so good a man.
The wound it seemed both sore and sad
To every Christian eye;
And while they swore the dog was mad,
They swore the man would die.
But soon a wonder came to light
That showed the rogues they lied,—
The man recovered of the bite,
The dog it was that died!
A poet is born
A poet dies
And all that lies between
is us
and the world
And the world lies about it
making as if it had got his message
even though it is poetry
but most of the world wishing
it could just forget about him
and his awful strange prophecies
Along with all the other strange things
he said about the world
which were all too true
and which made them fear him
more than they loved him
though he spoke much of love
Along with all the alarms he sounded
which turned out to be false
if only for the moment
all of which made them fear his tongue
more than they loved him
Though he spoke much of love
and never lived by ‘silence exile & cunning’
and was a loud conscientious objector to
the deaths we daily give each other
though we speak much of love
And when such a one dies
even the agents of Death should take note
and shake the shit from their wings
in Air Force One
But they do not
And the shit still flies
And the poet now is disconnected
and won’t call back
though he spoke much of love
And still we hear him say
‘Do I not deal with angels
when her lips I touch’
And still we hear him say
‘0 my darling troubles heaven
with her loveliness’
And still we hear him say
‘As we are so wonderfully done with each other
We can walk into our separate ‘sleep
On floors of music where the milkwhite cloak
of childhood lies’
And still we hear him saying
‘Therefore the constant powers do not lessen
Nor is the property of the spirit scattered
on the cold hills of these events’
And still we hear him asking
‘Do the dead know what time it is?’
He is gone under
He is scattered
undersea
and knows what time
but won’t be back to tell it
He would be too proud to call back anyway
And too full of strange laughter
to speak to us anymore anyway
And the weight of human experience
lies upon the world
like the chains of the ‘sea
in which he sings
And he swings in the tides of the sea
And his ashes are washed
in the ides of the sea
And ‘an astonished eye looks out of the air’
to see the poet singing there
And dusk falls down a coast somewhere
where a white horse without a rider
turns its head
to the sea
I KNOW that I shall meet my fate
Somewhere among the clouds above;
Those that I fight I do not hate,
Those that I guard I do not love;
My county is Kiltartan Cross,
My countrymen Kiltartan's poor,
No likely end could bring them loss
Or leave them happier than before.
Nor law, nor duty bade me fight,
Nor public men, nor cheering crowds,
A lonely impulse of delight
Drove to this tumult in the clouds;
I balanced all, brought all to mind,
The years to come seemed waste of breath,
A waste of breath the years behind
In balance with this life, this death.
Lured by the wall, and drawn
To stare below the roof,
Where pigeons nest aloof
From prowling cats and men,
I count the sash and bar
Secured to granite stone,
And note the daylight gone,
Supper and silence near.
Close to the wall inside,
Immured, empty of love,
A man I have wondered of
Lies patient, vacant-eye.
A month and a day ago
He stopped his car and found
A girl on the darkening ground,
And killed her in the snow.
Beside his cell, I am told,
Hardy perennial bums
Complain till twilight comes
For hunger and for cold.
They hardly know of a day
That saw their hunger pass.
Bred to the dark, their flesh
Peacefully withers away.
The man who sits alone,
He is the one for wonder,
Who sways his fingers under
The cleanly shaven chin,
Who sees, in the shaving mirror
Pinned to the barren wall,
The uprooted ghost of all:
The simple, easy terror.
Caught between sky and earth,
Poor stupid animal,
Stripped naked to the wall,
He saw the blundered birth
Of daemons beyond sound.
Sick of the dark, he rose
For love, and now he goes
Back to the broken ground.
Now, as he grips the chain
And holds the wall, to bear
What no man ever bore,
He hears the bums complain;
But I mourn no soul but his,
Not even the bums who die,
Nor the homely girl whose cry
Crumbled his pleading kiss.
The dark wings of night enfolded the city upon which Nature had spread a pure white garment of snow; and men deserted the streets for their houses in search of warmth, while the north wind probed in contemplation of laying waste the gardens. There in the suburb stood an old hut heavily laden with snow and on the verge of falling. In a dark recess of that hovel was a poor bed in which a dying youth was lying, staring at the dim light of his oil lamp, made to flicker by the entering winds. He a man in the spring of life who foresaw fully that the peaceful hour of freeing himself from the clutches of life was fast nearing. He was awaiting Death's visit gratefully, and upon his pale face appeared the dawn of hope; and on his lops a sorrowful smile; and in his eyes forgiveness.
He was poet perishing from hunger in the city of living rich. He was placed in the earthly world to enliven the heart of man with his beautiful and profound sayings. He as noble soul, sent by the Goddess of Understanding to soothe and make gentle the human spirit. But alas! He gladly bade the cold earth farewell without receiving a smile from its strange occupants.
He was breathing his last and had no one at his bedside save the oil lamp, his only companion, and some parchments upon which he had inscribed his heart's feeling. As he salvaged the remnants of his withering strength he lifted his hands heavenward; he moved his eyes hopelessly, as if wanting to penetrate the ceiling in order to see the stars from behind the veil clouds.
And he said, "Come, oh beautiful Death; my soul is longing for you. Come close to me and unfasten the irons life, for I am weary of dragging them. Come, oh sweet Death, and deliver me from my neighbors who looked upon me as a stranger because I interpret to them the language of the angels. Hurry, oh peaceful Death, and carry me from these multitudes who left me in the dark corner of oblivion because I do not bleed the weak as they do. Come, oh gentle Death, and enfold me under your white wings, for my fellowmen are not in want of me. Embrace me, oh Death, full of love and mercy; let your lips touch my lips which never tasted a mother's kiss, not touched a sister's cheeks, not caresses a sweetheart's fingertips. Come and take me, by beloved Death."
Then, at the bedside of the dying poet appeared an angel who possessed a supernatural and divine beauty, holding in her hand a wreath of lilies. She embraced him and closed his eyes so he could see no more, except with the eye of his spirit. She impressed a deep and long and gently withdrawn kiss that left and eternal smile of fulfillment upon his lips. Then the hovel became empty and nothing was lest save parchments and papers which the poet had strewn with bitter futility.
Hundreds of years later, when the people of the city arose from the diseases slumber of ignorance and saw the dawn of knowledge, they erected a monument in the most beautiful garden of the city and celebrated a feast every year in honor of that poet, whose writings had freed them. Oh, how cruel is man's ignorance!
WEEP, maiden, weep here o'er the tomb of Love;
He died of nothing--by mere chance was slain.
But is he really dead?--oh, that I cannot prove:
A nothing, a mere chance, oft gives him life again.
Never until the mankind making
Bird beast and flower
Fathering and all humbling darkness
Tells with silence the last light breaking
And the still hour
Is come of the sea tumbling in harness
And I must enter again the round
Zion of the water bead
And the synagogue of the ear of corn
Shall I let pray the shadow of a sound
Or sow my salt seed
In the least valley of sackcloth to mourn
The majesty and burning of the child's death.
I shall not murder
The mankind of her going with a grave truth
Nor blaspheme down the stations of the breath
With any further
Elegy of innocence and youth.
Deep with the first dead lies London's daughter,
Robed in the long friends,
The grains beyond age, the dark veins of her mother,
Secret by the unmourning water
Of the riding Thames.
After the first death, there is no other.
"His Grace! impossible! what, dead!
Of old age too, and in his bed!
And could that mighty warrior fall,
And so inglorious, after all?
Well, since he's gone, no matter how,
The last loud trump must wake him now;
And, trust me, as the noise grows stronger,
He'd wish to sleep a little longer.
And could he be indeed so old
As by the newspapers we're told?
Threescore, I think, is pretty high;
'Twas time in conscience he should die!
This world he cumber'd long enough;
He burnt his candle to the snuff;
And that's the reason, some folks think,
He left behind so great a stink.
Behold his funeral appears,
Nor widows' sighs, nor orphans' tears,
Wont at such times each heart to pierce,
Attend the progress of his hearse.
But what of that? his friends may say,
He had those honours in his day.
True to his profit and his pride,
He made them weep before he died
Come hither, all ye empty things!
Ye bubbles rais'd by breath of kings!
Who float upon the tide of state;
Come hither, and behold your fate!
Let pride be taught by this rebuke,
How very mean a thing's a duke;
From all his ill-got honours flung,
Turn'd to that dirt from whence he sprung"
AS at thy portals also death,
Entering thy sovereign, dim, illimitable grounds,
To memories of my mother, to the divine blending, maternity,
To her, buried and gone, yet buried not, gone not from me,
(I see again the calm benignant face fresh and beautiful still,
I sit by the form in the coffin,
I kiss and kiss convulsively again the sweet old lips, the cheeks,
the closed eyes in the coffin;)
To her, the ideal woman, practical, spiritual, of all of earth, life,
love, to me the best,
I grave a monumental line, before I go, amid these songs,
And set a tombstone here.                                          10
IF God compel thee to this destiny,
To die alone, with none beside thy bed
To ruffle round with sobs thy last word said
And mark with tears the pulses ebb from thee,--
Pray then alone, ' O Christ, come tenderly !
By thy forsaken Sonship in the red
Drear wine-press,--by the wilderness out-spread,--
And the lone garden where thine agony
Fell bloody from thy brow,--by all of those
Permitted desolations, comfort mine !
No earthly friend being near me, interpose
No deathly angel 'twixt my face aud thine,
But stoop Thyself to gather my life's rose,
And smile away my mortal to Divine ! '
Because I could not stop for Death-
He kindly stopped for me-
The Carriage held but just Ourselves-
And Immortality.
We slowly drove- He knew no haste
And I had put away
My labor and my leisure too,
For His Civility-
We passed the School, where Children strove
At Recess- in the Ring-
We passed the Fields of Gazing Grain-
We passed the Setting Sun-
Or rather- He passed us-
The Dews drew quivering and chill-
For only Gossamer, my Gown-
My Tippet- only Tulle-
We paused before a House that seemed
A Swelling of the Ground-
The Roof was scarcely visible-
The Cornice- in the Ground-
Since then- 'tis Centuries- and yet
Feels shorter than the Day
I first surmised the Horses' Heads
Were toward Eternity-
645
Bereavement in their death to feel
Whom We have never seen—
A Vital Kinsmanship import
Our Soul and theirs—between—
For Stranger—Strangers do not mourn—
There be Immortal friends
Whom Death see first—'tis news of this
That paralyze Ourselves—
Who, vital only to Our Thought—
Such Presence bear away
In dying—'tis as if Our Souls
Absconded—suddenly—
When I die
I don't care what happens to my body
throw ashes in the air, scatter 'em in East River
bury an urn in Elizabeth New Jersey, B'nai Israel Cemetery
But l want a big funeral
St. Patrick's Cathedral, St. Mark's Church, the largest synagogue in
Manhattan
First, there's family, brother, nephews, spry aged Edith stepmother
96, Aunt Honey from old Newark,
Doctor Joel, cousin Mindy, brother Gene one eyed one ear'd, sister-
in-law blonde Connie, five nephews, stepbrothers & sisters
their grandchildren,
companion Peter Orlovsky, caretakers Rosenthal & Hale, Bill Morgan--
Next, teacher Trungpa Vajracharya's ghost mind, Gelek Rinpoche,
there Sakyong Mipham, Dalai Lama alert, chance visiting
America, Satchitananda Swami
Shivananda, Dehorahava Baba, Karmapa XVI, Dudjom Rinpoche,
Katagiri & Suzuki Roshi's phantoms
Baker, Whalen, Daido Loorie, Qwong, Frail White-haired Kapleau
Roshis, Lama Tarchen --
Then, most important, lovers over half-century
Dozens, a hundred, more, older fellows bald & rich
young boys met naked recently in bed, crowds surprised to see each
other, innumerable, intimate, exchanging memories
"He taught me to meditate, now I'm an old veteran of the thousand
day retreat --"
"I played music on subway platforms, I'm straight but loved him he
loved me"
"I felt more love from him at 19 than ever from anyone"
"We'd lie under covers gossip, read my poetry, hug & kiss belly to belly
arms round each other"
"I'd always get into his bed with underwear on & by morning my
skivvies would be on the floor"
"Japanese, always wanted take it up my bum with a master"
"We'd talk all night about Kerouac & Cassady sit Buddhalike then
sleep in his captain's bed."
"He seemed to need so much affection, a shame not to make him happy"
"I was lonely never in bed nude with anyone before, he was so gentle my
stomach
shuddered when he traced his finger along my abdomen nipple to hips-- "
"All I did was lay back eyes closed, he'd bring me to come with mouth
& fingers along my waist"
"He gave great head"
So there be gossip from loves of 1948, ghost of Neal Cassady commin-
gling with flesh and youthful blood of 1997
and surprise -- "You too? But I thought you were straight!"
"I am but Ginsberg an exception, for some reason he pleased me."
"I forgot whether I was straight gay queer or funny, was myself, tender
and affectionate to be kissed on the top of my head,
my forehead throat heart & solar plexus, mid-belly. on my prick,
tickled with his tongue my behind"
"I loved the way he'd recite 'But at my back allways hear/ time's winged
chariot hurrying near,' heads together, eye to eye, on a
pillow --"
Among lovers one handsome youth straggling the rear
"I studied his poetry class, 17 year-old kid, ran some errands to his
walk-up flat,
seduced me didn't want to, made me come, went home, never saw him
again never wanted to... "
"He couldn't get it up but loved me," "A clean old man." "He made
sure I came first"
This the crowd most surprised proud at ceremonial place of honor--
Then poets & musicians -- college boys' grunge bands -- age-old rock
star Beatles, faithful guitar accompanists, gay classical con-
ductors, unknown high Jazz music composers, funky trum-
peters, bowed bass & french horn black geniuses, folksinger
fiddlers with dobro tamborine harmonica mandolin auto-
harp pennywhistles & kazoos
Next, artist Italian romantic realists schooled in mystic 60's India,
Late fauve Tuscan painter-poets, Classic draftsman Massa-
chusets surreal jackanapes with continental wives, poverty
sketchbook gesso oil watercolor masters from American
provinces
Then highschool teachers, lonely Irish librarians, delicate biblio-
philes, sex liberation troops nay armies, ladies of either sex
"I met him dozens of times he never remembered my name I loved
him anyway, true artist"
"Nervous breakdown after menopause, his poetry humor saved me
from suicide hospitals"
"Charmant, genius with modest manners, washed sink, dishes my
studio guest a week in Budapest"
Thousands of readers, "Howl changed my life in Libertyville Illinois"
"I saw him read Montclair State Teachers College decided be a poet-- "
"He turned me on, I started with garage rock sang my songs in Kansas
City"
"Kaddish made me weep for myself & father alive in Nevada City"
"Father Death comforted me when my sister died Boston l982"
"I read what he said in a newsmagazine, blew my mind, realized
others like me out there"
Deaf & Dumb bards with hand signing quick brilliant gestures
Then Journalists, editors's secretaries, agents, portraitists & photo-
graphy aficionados, rock critics, cultured laborors, cultural
historians come to witness the historic funeral
Super-fans, poetasters, aging Beatnicks & Deadheads, autograph-
hunters, distinguished paparazzi, intelligent gawkers
Everyone knew they were part of 'History" except the deceased
who never knew exactly what was happening even when I was alive
February 22, 1997
There’s a mirror likeness between those two
shining, youthfully-fledged figures, though
one seems paler than the other and more austere,
I might even say more perfect, more distinguished,
than he, who would take me confidingly in his arms –
how soft then and loving his smile, how blessed his glance!
Then, it might well have been that his wreath
of white poppies gently touched my forehead, at times,
and drove the pain from my mind with its strange scent.
But that is transient. I can only, now, be well,
when the other one, so serious and pale,
the older brother, lowers his dark torch. –
Sleep is so good, Death is better, yet
surely never to have been born is best.
Death be not proud, though some have called thee
Mighty and dreadfull, for, thou art not soe,
For, those, whom thou think'st, thou dost overthrow,
Die not, poore death, nor yet canst thou kill mee.
From rest and sleepe, which but thy pictures bee,
Much pleasure, then from thee, much more must flow,
And soonest our best men with thee doe goe,
Rest of their bones, and soules deliverie.
Thou art slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men,
And dost with poyson, warre, and sicknesse dwell,
And poppie, or charmes can make us sleepe as well,
And better then thy stroake; why swell'st thou then?
One short sleepe past, wee wake eternally,
And death shall be no more; death, thou shalt die.
I see the death everyday
Death in relations
Death in religion and faith
Death of man in man
Everyday, everywhere, every moment
Death, death and death.
I experience the death around me
Millions and billions of ceremonies
The smoke on maps of mankind
Death in temple and streets
Death in clubs and parties
Death, death and death.
I foresee the death of humanity
Harassment, discrimination and hatred
Death in purity and sacredness
Death in broken mirrors and home
Death in king, death in masses
Death, death and death.
Black milk of daybreak we drink it at sundown
we drink it at noon in the morning we drink it at night
we drink it and drink it
we dig a grave in the breezes there one lies unconfined
A man lives in the house he plays with the serpents
he writes
he writes when dusk falls to Germany your golden
hair Margarete
he writes it and steps out of doors and the stars are
flashing he whistles his pack out
he whistles his Jews out in earth has them dig for a
grave
he commands us strike up for the dance
Black milk of daybreak we drink you at night
we drink you in the morning at noon we drink you at
sundown
we drink and we drink you
A man lives in the house he plays with the serpents
he writes
he writes when dusk falls to Germany your golden hair
Margarete
your ashen hair Sulamith we dig a grave in the breezes
there one lies unconfined
He calls out jab deeper into the earth you lot you
others sing now and play
he grabs at the iron in his belt he waves it his
eyes are blue
jab deper you lot with your spades you others play
on for the dance
Black milk of daybreak we drink you at night
we drink you at at noon in the morning we drink you
at sundown
we drink and we drink you
a man lives in the house your golden hair Margarete
your ashen hair Sulamith he plays with the serpents
He calls out more sweetly play death death is a master
from Germany
he calls out more darkly now stroke your strings then
as smoke you will rise into air
then a grave you will have in the clouds there one
lies unconfined
Black milk of daybreak we drink you at night
we drink you at noon death is a master from Germany
we drink you at sundown and in the morning we drink
and we drink you
death is a master from Germany his eyes are blue
he strikes you with leaden bullets his aim is true
a man lives in the house your golden hair Margarete
he sets his pack on to us he grants us a grave in
the air
He plays with the serpents and daydreams death is
a master from Germany
your golden hair Margarete
your ashen hair Shulamith
Translated by Michael Hamburger
976
Death is a Dialogue between
The Spirit and the Dust.
"Dissolve" says Death—The Spirit "Sir
I have another Trust"—
Death doubts it—Argues from the Ground—
The Spirit turns away
Just laying off for evidence
An Overcoat of Clay.
I.
Death is here and death is there,
Death is busy everywhere,
All around, within, beneath,
Above is death—and we are death.
II.
Death has set his mark and seal
On all we are and all we feel,
On all we know and all we fear,
...
III.
First our pleasures die—and then
Our hopes, and then our fears—and when
These are dead, the debt is due,
Dust claims dust—and we die too.
IV.
All things that we love and cherish,
Like ourselves must fade and perish;
Such is our rude mortal lot--
Love itself would, did they not.
Death is nothing at all.
I have only slipped away to the next room.
I am I and you are you.
Whatever we were to each other,
That, we still are.
Call me by my old familiar name.
Speak to me in the easy way
which you always used.
Put no difference into your tone.
Wear no forced air of solemnity or sorrow.
Laugh as we always laughed
at the little jokes we enjoyed together.
Play, smile, think of me.  Pray for me.
Let my name be ever the household word
that it always was.
Let it be spoken without effect.
Without the trace of a shadow on it.
Life means all that it ever meant.
It is the same that it ever was.
There is absolute unbroken continuity.
Why should I be out of mind
because I am out of sight?
I am but waiting for you.
For an interval.
Somewhere. Very near.
Just around the corner.
All is well.
Nothing is past; nothing is lost. One brief moment and all will be as it was before only better, infinitely happier and forever we will all be one together with Christ.
548
Death is potential to that Man
Who dies—and to his friend—
Beyond that—unconspicuous
To Anyone but God—
Of these Two—God remembers
The longest—for the friend—
Is integral—and therefore
Itself dissolved—of God—
Death leaves Us homesick, who behind,
Except that it is gone
Are ignorant of its Concern
As if it were not born.
Through all their former Places, we
Like Individuals go
Who something lost, the seeking for
Is all that's left them, now—
Yet at the last, ere our spearmen had found him,
Yet at the last, ere a sword-thrust could save,
Yet at the last, with his masters around him,
He spoke of the Faith as a master to slave.
Yet at the last, though the Kafirs had maimed him,
Broken by bondage and wrecked by the reiver,
Yet at the last, tho' the darkness had claimed him,
He called on Allah, and died a Believer!
I opened wide the bath-room door,
And all at once switched on the light,
When moving swift across the floor
I saw a streak of ebon bright:
Then quick, with slipper in my hand,
Before it could escape,--I slammed.
I missed it once, I missed it twice,
But got it ere it gained its lair.
I fear my words were far from nice,
Though d----s with me are rather rare:
Then lo! I thought that dying roach
Regarded me with some reproach.
Said I: "Don't think I grudge you breath;
I hate to spill your greenish gore,
But why did you invite your death
By straying on my bath-room floor?"
"It is because," said he (or she),
"Adventure is my destiny.
"By evolution I was planned,
And marvellously made as you;
And I am led to understand
The selfsame God conceived us two:
Sire, though the coup de grâce you give,
Even a roach has right to live."
Said I: "Of course you have a right,--
But not to blot my bath-room floor.
Yet though with slipper I may smite,
Your doom I morally deplore . . .
From cellar gloom to stellar space
Let bards and beetles have their place.
Laid now on his smooth bed
For the last time, watching dully
Through heavy eyelids the day's colour
Widow the sky, what can he say
Worthy of record, the books all open,
Pens ready, the faces, sad,
Waiting gravely for the tired lips
To move once -- what can he say?
His tongue wrestles to force one word
Past the thick phlegm; no speech, no phrases
For the day's news, just the one word ‘sorry';
Sorry for the lies, for the long failure
In the poet's war; that he preferred
The easier rhythms of the heart
To the mind's scansion; that now he dies
Intestate, having nothing to leave
But a few songs, cold as stones
In the thin hands that asked for bread.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
Going to sleep, I cross my hands on my chest.
They will place my hands like this.
It will look as though I am flying into myself.
Our death is in the cool of night,
our life is in the pool of day.
The darkness glows, I’m drowning,
the day has tired me with light.
Over my head in leaves grown deep,
sings the young nightingale.
It only sings of love there,
I hear it in my sleep.
Death is a road our dearest friends have gone;
Why with such leaders, fear to say, "Lead on?"
Its gate repels, lest it too soon be tried,
But turns in balm on the immortal side.
Mothers have passed it: fathers, children; men
Whose like we look not to behold again;
Women that smiled away their loving breath;
Soft is the travelling on the road to death!
But guilt has passed it? men not fit to die?
O, hush -- for He that made us all is by!
Human we're all -- all men, all born of mothers;
All our own selves in the worn-out shape of others;
Our used, and oh, be sure, not to be ill-used brothers!
Come thou, thou last one, whom I recognize,
unbearable pain throughout this body's fabric:
as I in my spirit burned, see, I now burn in thee:
the wood that long resisted the advancing flames
which thou kept flaring, I now am nourishinig
and burn in thee.
My gentle and mild being through thy ruthless fury
has turned into a raging hell that is not from here.
Quite pure, quite free of future planning, I mounted
the tangled funeral pyre built for my suffering,
so sure of nothing more to buy for future needs,
while in my heart the stored reserves kept silent.
Is it still I, who there past all recognition burn?
Memories I do not seize and bring inside.
O life! O living! O to be outside!
And I in flames. And no one here who knows me.
It is not death, that sometime in a sigh
This eloquent breath shall take its speechless flight;
That sometime these bright stars, that now reply
In sunlight to the sun, shall set in night;
That this warm conscious flesh shall perish quite,
And all life's ruddy springs forget to flow;
That thoughts shall cease, and the immortal sprite
Be lapped in alien clay and laid below;
It is not death to know this,--but to know
That pious thoughts, which visit at new graves
In tender pilgrimage, will cease to go
So duly and so oft,--and when grass waves
Over the past-away, there may be then
No resurrection in the minds of men.
NOR dread nor hope attend
A dying animal;
A man awaits his end
Dreading and hoping all;
Many times he died,
Many times rose again.
A great man in his pride
Confronting murderous men
Casts derision upon
Supersession of breath;
He knows death to the bone --
Man has created death.
Death sets a thing significant
The eye had hurried by,
Except a perished creature
Entreat us tenderly
To ponder little workmanships
In crayon or in wool,
With 'This was last her fingers did,'
Industrious until
The thimble weighed too heavy,
The stitches stopped themselves,
And then 't was put among the dust
Upon the closet shelves.
A book I have, a friend gave,
Whose pencil, here and there,
Had notched the place that pleased him,--
At rest his fingers are.
Now, when I read, I read not,
For interrupting tears
Obliterate the etchings
Too costly for repairs.
DEATH is stronger than all the governments because
the governments are men and men die and then
death laughs: Now you see 'em, now you don't.
Death is stronger than all proud men and so death
snips proud men on the nose, throws a pair of
dice and says: Read 'em and weep.
Death sends a radiogram every day: When I want
you I'll drop in--and then one day he comes with a
master-key and lets himself in and says: We'll
go now.
Death is a nurse mother with big arms: 'Twon't hurt
you at all; it's your time now; just need a
long sleep, child; what have you had anyhow
better than sleep?
Death stands above me, whispering low
I know not what into my ear:
Of his strange language all I know
Is, there is not a word of fear.
Death! that struck when I was most confiding
In my certain faith of joy to be -
Strike again, Time's withered branch dividing
From the fresh root of Eternity!
Leaves, upon Time's branch, were growing brightly,
Full of sap, and full of silver dew;
Birds beneath its shelter gathered nightly;
Daily round its flowers the wild bees flew.
Sorrow passed, and plucked the golden blossom;
Guilt stripped off the foliage in its pride;
But, within its parent's kindly bosom,
Flowed for ever Life's restoring-tide.
Little mourned I for the parted gladness,
For the vacant nest and silent song -
Hope was there, and laughed me out of sadness;
Whispering, ' Winter will not linger long!'
And, behold! with tenfold increase blessing,
Spring adorned the beauty-burdened spray;
Wind and rain and fervent heat, caressing,
Lavished glory on that second May!
High it rose - no winged grief could sweep it;
Sin was scared to distance with its shine;
Love, and its own life, had power to keep it
From all wrong - from every blight but thine!
Cruel Death! The young leaves droop and languish;
Evening's gentle air may still restore -
No! the morning sunshine mocks my anguish -
Time, for me, must never blossom more!
Strike it down, that other boughs may flourish
Where that perished sapling used to be;
Thus, at least, its mouldering corpse will nourish
That from which it sprung - Eternity.
The glories of our blood and state
Are shadows, not substantial things;
There is no armour against Fate;
Death lays his icy hand on kings:
Sceptre and Crown
Must tumble down,
And in the dust be equal made
With the poor crookèd scythe and spade.
Some men with swords may reap the field,
And plant fresh laurels where they kill:
But their strong nerves at last must yield;
They tame but one another still:
Early or late
They stoop to fate,
And must give up their murmuring breath
When they, pale captives, creep to death.
The garlands wither on your brow,
Then boast no more your mighty deeds!
Upon Death's purple altar now
See where the victor-victim bleeds.
Your heads must come
To the cold tomb:
Only the actions of the just
Smell sweet and blossom in their dust.
death wants more death, and its webs are full:
I remember my father's garage, how child-like
I would brush the corpses of flies
from the windows they thought were escape-
their sticky, ugly, vibrant bodies
shouting like dumb crazy dogs against the glass
only to spin and flit
in that second larger than hell or heaven
onto the edge of the ledge,
and then the spider from his dank hole
nervous and exposed
the puff of body swelling
hanging there
not really quite knowing,
and then knowing-
something sending it down its string,
the wet web,
toward the weak shield of buzzing,
the pulsing;
a last desperate moving hair-leg
there against the glass
there alive in the sun,
spun in white;
and almost like love:
the closing over,
the first hushed spider-sucking:
filling its sack
upon this thing that lived;
crouching there upon its back
drawing its certain blood
as the world goes by outside
and my temples scream
and I hurl the broom against them:
the spider dull with spider-anger
still thinking of its prey
and waving an amazed broken leg;
the fly very still,
a dirty speck stranded to straw;
I shake the killer loose
and he walks lame and peeved
towards some dark corner
but I intercept his dawdling
his crawling like some broken hero,
and the straws smash his legs
now waving
above his head
and looking
looking for the enemy
and somewhat valiant,
dying without apparent pain
simply crawling backward
piece by piece
leaving nothing there
until at last the red gut sack
splashes
its secrets,
and I run child-like
with God's anger a step behind,
back to simple sunlight,
wondering
as the world goes by
with curled smile
if anyone else
saw or sensed my crime
Then Almitra spoke, saying, "We would ask now of Death."
And he said:
You would know the secret of death.
But how shall you find it unless you seek it in the heart of life?
The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind unto the day cannot unveil the mystery of light.
If you would indeed behold the spirit of death, open your heart wide unto the body of life.
For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one.
In the depth of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond;
And like seeds dreaming beneath the snow your heart dreams of spring.
Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity.
Your fear of death is but the trembling of the shepherd when he stands before the king whose hand is to be laid upon him in honour.
Is the shepherd not joyful beneath his trembling, that he shall wear the mark of the king?
Yet is he not more mindful of his trembling?
For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun?
And what is to cease breathing, but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek God unencumbered?
Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing.
And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb.
And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance.
Don't fear death in earthly travels.
Don't fear enemies or friends.
Just listen to the words of prayers,
To pass the facets of the dreads.
Your death will come to you, and never
You shall be, else, a slave of life,
Just waiting for a dawn's favor,
From nights of poverty and strife.
She'll build with you a common law,
One will of the Eternal Reign.
And you are not condemned to slow
And everlasting deadly pain.
.  When first, descending from the moorlands,
I saw the Stream of Yarrow glide
Along a bare and open valley,
The Ettrick Shepherd was my guide.
When last along its banks I wandered,
Through groves that had begun to shed
Their golden leaves upon the pathways,
My steps the Border-minstrel led.
The mighty Minstrel breathes no longer,
'Mid mouldering ruins low he lies;
And death upon the braes of Yarrow,
Has closed the Shepherd-poet's eyes:
Nor has the rolling year twice measured,
From sign to sign, its stedfast course,
Since every mortal power of Coleridge
Was frozen at its marvellous source;
The rapt One, of the godlike forehead,
The heaven-eyed creature sleeps in earth:
And Lamb, the frolic and the gentle,
Has vanished from his lonely hearth.
Like clouds that rake the mountain-summits,
Or waves that own no curbing hand,
How fast has brother followed brother,
From sunshine to the sunless land!
Yet I, whose lids from infant slumber
Were earlier raised, remain to hear
A timid voice, that asks in whispers,
"Who next will drop and disappear?"
Our haughty life is crowned with darkness,
Like London with its own black wreath,
On which with thee, O Crabbe! forth-looking,
I gazed from Hampstead's breezy heath.
As if but yesterday departed,
Thou too art gone before; but why,
O'er ripe fruit, seasonably gathered,
Should frail survivors heave a sigh?
Mourn rather for that holy Spirit,
Sweet as the spring, as ocean deep;
For Her who, ere her summer faded,
Has sunk into a breathless sleep.
No more of old romantic sorrows,
For slaughtered Youth or love-lorn Maid!
With sharper grief is Yarrow smitten,
And Ettrick mourns with her their Poet dead.
Hey Father Death, I'm flying home
Hey poor man, you're all alone
Hey old daddy, I know where I'm going
Father Death, Don't cry any more
Mama's there, underneath the floor
Brother Death, please mind the store
Old Aunty Death Don't hide your bones
Old Uncle Death I hear your groans
O Sister Death how sweet your moans
O Children Deaths go breathe your breaths
Sobbing breasts'll ease your Deaths
Pain is gone, tears take the rest
Genius Death your art is done
Lover Death your body's gone
Father Death I'm coming home
Guru Death your words are true
Teacher Death I do thank you
For inspiring me to sing this Blues
Buddha Death, I wake with you
Dharma Death, your mind is new
Sangha Death, we'll work it through
Suffering is what was born
Ignorance made me forlorn
Tearful truths I cannot scorn
Father Breath once more farewell
Birth you gave was no thing ill
My heart is still, as time will tell.
In the cold, cold parlor
my mother laid out Arthur
beneath the chromographs:
Edward, Prince of Wales,
with Princess Alexandra,
and King George with Queen Mary.
Below them on the table
stood a stuffed loon
shot and stuffed by Uncle
Arthur, Arthur's father.
Since Uncle Arthur fired
a bullet into him,
he hadn't said a word.
He kept his own counsel
on his white, frozen lake,
the marble-topped table.
His breast was deep and white,
cold and caressable;
his eyes were red glass,
much to be desired.
"Come," said my mother,
"Come and say good-bye
to your little cousin Arthur."
I was lifted up and given
one lily of the valley
to put in Arthur's hand.
Arthur's coffin was
a little frosted cake,
and the red-eyed loon eyed it
from his white, frozen lake.
Arthur was very small.
He was all white, like a doll
that hadn't been painted yet.
Jack Frost had started to paint him
the way he always painted
the Maple Leaf (Forever).
He had just begun on his hair,
a few red strokes, and then
Jack Frost had dropped the brush
and left him white, forever.
The gracious royal couples
were warm in red and ermine;
their feet were well wrapped up
in the ladies' ermine trains.
They invited Arthur to be
the smallest page at court.
But how could Arthur go,
clutching his tiny lily,
with his eyes shut up so tight
and the roads deep in snow?
382
For Death—or rather
For the Things 'twould buy—
This—put away
Life's Opportunity—
The Things that Death will buy
Are Room—
Escape from Circumstances—
And a Name—
With Gifts of Life
How Death's Gifts may compare—
We know not—
For the Rates—lie Here—
Every year without knowing it I have passed the day
When the last fires will wave to me
And the silence will set out
Tireless traveller
Like the beam of a lightless star
Then I will no longer
Find myself in life as in a strange garment
Surprised at the earth
And the love of one woman
And the shamelessness of men
As today writing after three days of rain
Hearing the wren sing and the falling cease
And bowing not knowing to what
Black milk of daybreak we drink it at nightfall
we drink it at noon in the morning we drink it at night
we drink it and drink it
we are digging a grave in the sky it is ample to lie there
A man in the house he plays with the serpents he writes
he writes when the night falls to Germany your golden
hair Margarete
he writes it and walks from the house the stars glitter he
whistles his dogs up
he whistles his Jews out and orders a grave to be dug in
the earth
he commands us strike up for the dance
Black milk of daybreak we drink you at night
we drink you in the morning at noon we drink you at
nightfall
drink you and drink you
A man in the house he plays with the serpents he writes
he writes when the night falls to Germany your golden
hair Margarete
Your ashen hair Shulamith we are digging a grave in the
sky it is
ample to lie there
He shouts stab deeper in earth you there and you others
you sing and you play
he grabs at the iron in his belt and swings it and blue are
his eyes
stab deeper your spades you there and you others play on
for the dancing
Black milk of daybreak we drink you at nightfall
we drink you at noon in the mornings we drink you at
nightfall
drink you and drink you
a man in the house your golden hair Margarete
your ashen hair Shulamith he plays with the serpents
He shouts play sweeter death's music death comes as a
master from Germany
he shouts stroke darker the strings and as smoke you
shall climb to the sky
then you'll have a grave in the clouds it is ample to lie
there
Black milk of daybreak we drink you at night
we drink you at noon death comes as a master from
Germany
we drink you at nightfall and morning we drink you and
drink you
a master from Germany death comes with eyes that are
blue
with a bullet of lead he will hit in the mark he will hit
you
a man in the house your golden hair Margarete
he hunts us down with his dogs in the sky he gives us a
grave
he plays with the serpents and dreams death comes as a
master from Germany
your golden hair Margarete
your ashen hair Shulamith.
I want to sleep the dream of the apples,
to withdraw from the tumult of cemetries.
I want to sleep the dream of that child
who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas.
I don't want to hear again that the dead do not lose their blood,
that the putrid mouth goes on asking for water.
I don't want to learn of the tortures of the grass,
nor of the moon with a serpent's mouth
that labors before dawn.
I want to sleep awhile,
awhile, a minute, a century;
but all must know that I have not died;
that there is a stable of gold in my lips;
that I am the small friend of the West wing;
that I am the intense shadows of my tears.
Cover me at dawn with a veil,
because dawn will throw fistfuls of ants at me,
and wet with hard water my shoes
so that the pincers of the scorpion slide.
For I want to sleep the dream of the apples,
to learn a lament that will cleanse me to earth;
for I want to live with that dark child
who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas.
Weep not, weep not,
She is not dead;
She's resting in the bosom of Jesus.
Heart-broken husband--weep no more;
Grief-stricken son--weep no more;
Left-lonesome daughter --weep no more;
She only just gone home.
Day before yesterday morning,
God was looking down from his great, high heaven,
Looking down on all his children,
And his eye fell of Sister Caroline,
Tossing on her bed of pain.
And God's big heart was touched with pity,
With the everlasting pity.
And God sat back on his throne,
And he commanded that tall, bright angel standing at his right hand:
Call me Death!
And that tall, bright angel cried in a voice
That broke like a clap of thunder:
Call Death!--Call Death!
And the echo sounded down the streets of heaven
Till it reached away back to that shadowy place,
Where Death waits with his pale, white horses.
And Death heard the summons,
And he leaped on his fastest horse,
Pale as a sheet in the moonlight.
Up the golden street Death galloped,
And the hooves of his horses struck fire from the gold,
But they didn't make no sound.
Up Death rode to the Great White Throne,
And waited for God's command.
And God said: Go down, Death, go down,
Go down to Savannah, Georgia,
Down in Yamacraw,
And find Sister Caroline.
She's borne the burden and heat of the day,
She's labored long in my vineyard,
And she's tired--
She's weary--
Do down, Death, and bring her to me.
And Death didn't say a word,
But he loosed the reins on his pale, white horse,
And he clamped the spurs to his bloodless sides,
And out and down he rode,
Through heaven's pearly gates,
Past suns and moons and stars;
on Death rode,
Leaving the lightning's flash behind;
Straight down he came.
While we were watching round her bed,
She turned her eyes and looked away,
She saw what we couldn't see;
She saw Old Death.She saw Old Death
Coming like a falling star.
But Death didn't frighten Sister Caroline;
He looked to her like a welcome friend.
And she whispered to us: I'm going home,
And she smiled and closed her eyes.
And Death took her up like a baby,
And she lay in his icy arms,
But she didn't feel no chill.
And death began to ride again--
Up beyond the evening star,
Into the glittering light of glory,
On to the Great White Throne.
And there he laid Sister Caroline
On the loving breast of Jesus.
And Jesus took his own hand and wiped away her tears,
And he smoothed the furrows from her face,
And the angels sang a little song,
And Jesus rocked her in his arms,
And kept a-saying: Take your rest,
Take your rest.
Weep not--weep not,
She is not dead;
She's resting in the bosom of Jesus.
'TWAS a death-bed summons, and forth I went
By the way of the Western Wall, so drear
On that winter night, and sought a gate--
The home, by Fate,
Of one I had long held dear.
And there, as I paused by her tenement,
And the trees shed on me their rime and hoar,
I thought of the man who had left her lone--
Him who made her his own
When I loved her, long before.
The rooms within had the piteous shine
The home-things wear which the housewife miss;
From the stairway floated the rise and fall
Of an infant's call,
Whose birth had brought her to this.
Her life was the price she would pay for that whine--
For a child by the man she did not love.
"But let that rest forever," I said,
And bent my tread
To the chamber up above.
She took my hand in her thin white own,
And smiled her thanks--though nigh too weak--
And made them a sign to leave us there;
Then faltered, ere
She could bring herself to speak.
"'Twas to see you before I go--he'll condone
Such a natural thing now my time's not much--
When Death is so near it hustles hence
All passioned sense
Between woman and man as such!
"My husband is absent. As heretofore
The City detains him. But, in truth,
He has not been kind.... I will speak no blame,
But--the child is lame;
O, I pray she may reach his ruth!
"Forgive past days--I can say no more--
Maybe if we'd wedded you'd now repine!...
But I treated you ill. I was punished. Farewell!
--Truth shall I tell?
Would the child were yours and mine!
"As a wife I was true. But, such my unease
That, could I insert a deed back in Time,
I'd make her yours, to secure your care;
And the scandal bear,
And the penalty for the crime!"
--When I had left, and the swinging trees
Rang above me, as lauding her candid say,
Another was I. Her words were enough:
Came smooth, came rough,
I felt I could live my day.
Next night she died; and her obsequies
In the Field of Tombs, by the Via renowned,
Had her husband's heed. His tendance spent,
I often went
And pondered by her mound.
All that year and the next year whiled,
And I still went thitherward in the gloam;
But the Town forgot her and her nook,
And her husband took
Another Love to his home.
And the rumor flew that the lame lone child
Whom she wished for its safety child of mine,
Was treated ill when offspring came
Of the new-made dame,
And marked a more vigorous line.
A smarter grief within me wrought
Than even at loss of her so dear;
Dead the being whose soul my soul suffused,
Her child ill-used,
I helpless to interfere!
One eve as I stood at my spot of thought
In the white-stoned Garth, brooding thus her wrong,
Her husband neared; and to shun his view
By her hallowed mew
I went from the tombs among
To the Cirque of the Gladiators which faced--
That haggard mark of Imperial Rome,
Whose Pagan echoes mock the chime
Of our Christian time:
It was void, and I inward clomb.
Scarce had night the sun's gold touch displaced
From the vast Rotund and the neighboring dead
When her husband followed; bowed; half-passed,
With lip upcast;
Then, halting, sullenly said:
"It is noised that you visit my first wife's tomb.
Now, I gave her an honored name to bear
While living, when dead. So I've claim to ask
By what right you task
My patience by vigiling there?
"There's decency even in death, I assume;
Preserve it, sir, and keep away;
For the mother of my first-born you
Show mind undue!
--Sir, I've nothing more to say."
A desperate stroke discerned I then--
God pardon--or pardon not--the lie;
She had sighed that she wished (lest the child should pine
Of slights) 'twere mine,
So I said: "But the father I.
"That you thought it yours is the way of men;
But I won her troth long ere your day:
You learnt how, in dying, she summoned me?
'Twas in fealty.
--Sir, I've nothing more to say,
"Save that, if you'll hand me my little maid,
I'll take her, and rear her, and spare you toil.
Think it more than a friendly act none can;
I'm a lonely man,
While you've a large pot to boil.
"If not, and you'll put it to ball or blade--
To-night, to-morrow night, anywhen--
I'll meet you here.... But think of it,
And in season fit
Let me hear from you again."
--Well, I went away, hoping; but nought I heard
Of my stroke for the child, till there greeted me
A little voice that one day came
To my window-frame
And babbled innocently:
"My father who's not my own, sends word
I'm to stay here, sir, where I belong!"
Next a writing came: "Since the child was the fruit
Of your passions brute,
Pray take her, to right a wrong."
And I did. And I gave the child my love,
And the child loved me, and estranged us none.
But compunctions loomed; for I'd harmed the dead
By what I'd said
For the good of the living one.
--Yet though, God wot, I am sinner enough,
And unworthy the woman who drew me so,
Perhaps this wrong for her darling's good
She forgives, or would,
If only she could know!
Death, be not proud, though some have callèd thee
Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so;
For those whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow
Die not, poor death, nor yet canst thou kill me.
From rest and sleep, which yet thy pictures be,
Much pleasure, then from thee much more, must low
And soonest our best men with thee do go,
Rest of their bones and soul's delivery.
Thou art slave to fate, chance, kings and desperate men
And dost with poison, war and sickness dwell,
And poppy or charms can make us sleep as well
And better than thy stroke; why swell'st thou then ?
One short sleep past, we wake eternally,
And death shall be no more; death, thou shalt die.
Longing for Death
Into the bosom of the earth,
Out of the Light's dominion,
Death's pains are but a bursting forth,
Sign of glad departure.
Swift in the narrow little boat,
Swift to the heavenly shore we float.
Blessed be the everlasting Night,
And blessed the endless slumber.
We are heated by the day too bright,
And withered up with care.
We're weary of a life abroad,
And we now want our Father's home.
What in this world should we all
Do with love and with faith?
That which is old is set aside,
And the new may perish also.
Alone he stands and sore downcast
Who loves with pious warmth the Past.
The Past where the light of the senses
In lofty flames did rise;
Where the Father's face and hand
All men did recognize;
And, with high sense, in simplicity
Many still fit the original pattern.
The Past wherein, still rich in bloom,
Man's strain did burgeon glorious,
And children, for the world to come,
Sought pain and death victorious,
And, through both life and pleasure spake,
Yet many a heart for love did break.
The Past, where to the flow of youth
God still showed himself,
And truly to an early death
Did commit his sweet life.
Fear and torture patiently he bore
So that he would be loved forever.
With anxious yearning now we see
That Past in darkness drenched,
With this world's water never we
Shall find our hot thirst quenched.
To our old home we have to go
That blessed time again to know.
What yet doth hinder our return
To loved ones long reposed?
Their grave limits our lives.
We are all sad and afraid.
We can search for nothing more --
The heart is full, the world is void.
Infinite and mysterious,
Thrills through us a sweet trembling --
As if from far there echoed thus
A sigh, our grief resembling.
Our loved ones yearn as well as we,
And sent to us this longing breeze.
Down to the sweet bride, and away
To the beloved Jesus.
Have courage, evening shades grow gray
To those who love and grieve.
A dream will dash our chains apart,
And lay us in the Father's lap.
Perhaps if Death is kind, and there can be returning,
We will come back to earth some fragrant night,
And take these lanes to find the sea, and bending
Breathe the same honeysuckle, low and white.
We will come down at night to these resounding beaches
And the long gentle thunder of the sea,
Here for a single hour in the wide starlight
We shall be happy, for the dead are free.
Submitted by Venus
I have a rendezvous with Death
At some disputed barricade,
When Spring comes back with rustling shade
And apple-blossoms fill the air—
I have a rendezvous with Death
When Spring brings back blue days and fair.
It may be he shall take my hand
And lead me into his dark land
And close my eyes and quench my breath—
It may be I shall pass him still.
I have a rendezvous with Death
On some scarred slope of battered hill,
When Spring comes round again this year
And the first meadow-flowers appear.
God knows 'twere better to be deep
Pillowed in silk and scented down,
Where love throbs out in blissful sleep,
Pulse nigh to pulse, and breath to breath,
Where hushed awakenings are dear . . .
But I've a rendezvous with Death
At midnight in some flaming town,
When Spring trips north again this year,
And I to my pledged word am true,
I shall not fail that rendezvous.
I wage not any feud with Death
For changes wrought on form and face;
No lower life that earth's embrace
May breed with him, can fright my faith.
Eternal process moving on,
From state to state the spirit walks;
And these are but the shatter'd stalks,
Or ruin'd chrysalis of one.
Nor blame I Death, because he bare
The use of virtue out of earth:
I know transplanted human worth
Will bloom to profit, otherwhere.
For this alone on Death I wreak
The wrath that garners in my heart;
He put our lives so far apart
We cannot hear each other speak.
Let me die a youngman's death
not a clean and inbetween
the sheets holywater death
not a famous-last-words
peaceful out of breath death
When I'm 73
and in constant good tumour
may I be mown down at dawn
by a bright red sports car
on my way home
from an allnight party
Or when I'm 91
with silver hair
and sitting in a barber's chair
may rival gangsters
with hamfisted tommyguns burst in
and give me a short back and insides
Or when I'm 104
and banned from the Cavern
may my mistress
catching me in bed with her daughter
and fearing for her son
cut me up into little pieces
and throw away every piece but one
Let me die a youngman's death
not a free from sin tiptoe in
candle wax and waning death
not a curtains drawn by angels borne
'what a nice way to go' death
it sits outside my window now
like and old woman going to market;
it sits and watches me,
it sweats nevously
through wire and fog and dog-bark
until suddenly
I slam the screen with a newspaper
like slapping at a fly
and you could hear the scream
over this plain city,
and then it left.
the way to end a poem
like this
is to become suddenly
quiet.
Submitted by .eve.
Shall we, too, rise forgetful from our sleep,
And shall my soul that lies within your hand
Remember nothing, as the blowing sand
Forgets the palm where long blue shadows creep
When winds along the darkened desert sweep?
Or would it still remember, tho' it spanned
A thousand heavens, while the planets fanned
The vacant ether with their voices deep?
Soul of my soul, no word shall be forgot,
Nor yet alone, beloved, shall we see
The desolation of extinguished suns,
Nor fear the void wherethro' our planet runs,
For still together shall we go and not
Fare forth alone to front eternity.
There are cemeteries that are lonely,
graves full of bones that do not make a sound,
the heart moving through a tunnel,
in it darkness, darkness, darkness,
like a shipwreck we die going into ourselves,
as though we were drowning inside our hearts,
as though we lived falling out of the skin into the soul.
And there are corpses,
feet made of cold and sticky clay,
death is inside the bones,
like a barking where there are no dogs,
coming out from bells somewhere, from graves somewhere,
growing in the damp air like tears of rain.
Sometimes I see alone
coffins under sail,
embarking with the pale dead, with women that have dead hair,
with bakers who are as white as angels,
and pensive young girls married to notary publics,
caskets sailing up the vertical river of the dead,
the river of dark purple,
moving upstream with sails filled out by the sound of death,
filled by the sound of death which is silence.
Death arrives among all that sound
like a shoe with no foot in it, like a suit with no man in it,
comes and knocks, using a ring with no stone in it, with no
finger in it,
comes and shouts with no mouth, with no tongue, with no
throat.
Nevertheless its steps can be heard
and its clothing makes a hushed sound, like a tree.
I'm not sure, I understand only a little, I can hardly see,
but it seems to me that its singing has the color of damp violets,
of violets that are at home in the earth,
because the face of death is green,
and the look death gives is green,
with the penetrating dampness of a violet leaf
and the somber color of embittered winter.
But death also goes through the world dressed as a broom,
lapping the floor, looking for dead bodies,
death is inside the broom,
the broom is the tongue of death looking for corpses,
it is the needle of death looking for thread.
Death is inside the folding cots:
it spends its life sleeping on the slow mattresses,
in the black blankets, and suddenly breathes out:
it blows out a mournful sound that swells the sheets,
and the beds go sailing toward a port
where death is waiting, dressed like an admiral.
Translated by Robert Bly
O Death, O Death, rock me asleep,
Bring me to quiet rest;
Let pass my weary guiltless ghost
Out of my careful breast.
Toll on, thou passing bell;
Ring out my doleful knell;
Thy sound my death abroad will tell,
For I must die,
There is no remedy.
My pains, my pains, who can express?
Alas, they are so strong!
My dolours will not suffer strength
My life for to prolong.
Toll on, thou passing bell;
Ring out my doleful knell;
Thy sound my death abroad will tell,
For I must die,
There is no remedy.
Alone, alone in prison strong
I wail my destiny:
Woe worth this cruel hap that I
Must taste this misery!
Toll on, thou passing bell;
Ring out my doleful knell;
Thy sound my death abroad will tell,
For I must die,
There is no remedy.
Farewell, farewell, my pleasures past!
Welcome, my present pain!
I feel my torment so increase
That life cannot remain.
Cease now, thou passing bell,
Ring out my doleful knoll,
For thou my death dost tell:
Lord, pity thou my soul!
Death doth draw nigh,
Sound dolefully:
For now I die,
I die, I die.
'Twas on a lofty vase's side,
Where China's gayest art had dy'd
The azure flow'rs that blow;
Demurest of the tabby kind,
The pensive Selima, reclin'd,
Gazed on the lake below.
Her conscious tail her joy declar'd;
The fair round face, the snowy beard,
The velvet of her paws,
Her coat, that with the tortoise vies,
Her ears of jet, and emerald eyes,
She saw: and purr'd applause.
Still had she gaz'd; but 'midst the tide
Two angel forms were seen to glide,
The Genii of the stream;
Their scaly armour's Tyrian hue
Thro' richest purple to the view
Betray'd a golden gleam.
The hapless Nymph with wonder saw:
A whisker first and then a claw,
With many an ardent wish,
She stretch'd in vain to reach the prize.
What female heart can gold despise?
What cat's averse to fish?
Presumptuous Maid! with looks intent
Again she stretch'd, again she bent,
Nor knew the gulf between.
(Malignant Fate sat by, and smil'd)
The slipp'ry verge her feet beguil'd,
She tumbled headlong in.
Eight times emerging from the flood
She mew'd to ev'ry wat'ry god,
Some speedy aid to send.
No Dolphin came, no Nereid stirr'd;
Nor cruel Tom, nor Susan heard.
A Fav'rite has no friend!
From hence, ye Beauties, undeceiv'd,
Know, one false step is ne'er retriev'd,
And be with caution bold.
Not all that tempts your wand'ring eyes
And heedless hearts is lawful prize,
Nor all, that glisters, gold.
Tell me thou safest End of all our Woe,
Why wreched Mortals do avoid thee so:
Thou gentle drier o'th' afflicteds Tears,
Thou noble ender of the Cowards Fears;
Thou sweet Repose to Lovers sad dispaire,
Thou Calm t'Ambitions rough Tempestuous Care.
If in regard of Bliss thou wert a Curse,
And then the Joys of Paradise art worse;
Yet after Man from his first Station fell,
And God from Eden Adam did expel,
Thou wert no more an Evil, but Relief;
The Balm and Cure to ev'ry Humane Grief:
Through thee (what Man had forfeited before)
He now enjoys, and ne'r can loose it more.
No subtile Serpents in the Grave betray,
Worms on the Body there, not Soul do prey;
No Vice there Tempts, no Terrors there afright,
No Coz'ning Sin affords a false delight:
No vain Contentions do that Peace annoy,
No feirce Alarms break the lasting Joy.
Ah since from thee so many Blessings flow,
Such real Good as Life can never know;
Come when thou wilt, in thy afrighting'st Dress,
Thy Shape shall never make thy Welcome less.
Thou mayst to Joy, but ne'er to Fear give Birth,
Thou Best, as well as Certain'st thing on Earth.
Fly thee? May Travellers then fly their Rest,
And hungry Infants fly the profer'd Brest.
No, those that faint and tremble at thy Name,
Fly from their Good on a mistaken Fame.
Thus Childish fear did Israel of old
From Plenty and the Promis'd Land with-hold;
They fancy'd Giants, and refus'd to go,
When Canaan did with Milk and Honey flow.
The pale, the cold, and the moony smile
Which the meteor beam of a starless night
Sheds on a lonely and sea-girt isle,
Ere the dawning of morn's undoubted light,
Is the flame of life so fickle and wan
That flits round our steps till their strength is gone.
O man! hold thee on in courage of soul
Through the stormy shades of thy wordly way,
And the billows of clouds that around thee roll
Shall sleep in the light of a wondrous day,
Where hell and heaven shall leave thee free
To the universe of destiny.
This world is the nurse of all we know,
This world is the mother of all we feel,
And the coming of death is a fearful blow
To a brain unencompass'd by nerves of steel:
When all that we know, or feel, or see,
Shall pass like an unreal mystery.
The secret things of the grave are there,
Where all but this frame must surely be,
Though the fine-wrought eye and the wondrous ear
No longer will live, to hear or to see
All that is great and all that is strange
In the boundless realm of unending change.
Who telleth a tale of unspeaking death?
Who lifteth the veil of what is to come?
Who painteth the shadows that are beneath
The wide-winding caves of the peopled tomb?
Or uniteth the hopes of what shall be
With the fears and the love for that which we see?
We lack all knowledge of this parting. Death
does not deal with us. We have no reason
to show death admiration, love or hate;
his mask of feigned tragic lament gives us
a false impression. The world's stage is still
filled with roles which we play. While we worry
that our performances may not please,
death also performs, although to no applause.
But as you left us, there broke upon this stage
a glimpse of reality, shown through the slight
opening through which you dissapeared: green,
evergreen, bathed in sunlight, actual woods.
We keep on playiing, still anxious, our difficult roles
declaiming, accompanied by matching gestures
as required. But your presence so suddenly
removed from our midst and from our play, at times
overcomes us like a sense of that other
reality: yours, that we are so overwhelmed
and play our actual lives instead of the performance,
forgetting altogehter the applause.
Translated by Albert Ernest Flemming
THERE 's little joy in life for me,
And little terror in the grave ;
I 've lived the parting hour to see
Of one I would have died to save.
Calmly to watch the failing breath,
Wishing each sigh might be the last ;
Longing to see the shade of death
O'er those belovèd features cast.
The cloud, the stillness that must part
The darling of my life from me ;
And then to thank God from my heart,
To thank Him well and fervently ;
Although I knew that we had lost
The hope and glory of our life ;
And now, benighted, tempest-tossed,
Must bear alone the weary strife.
WHO taught thee conflict with the pow'rs of night,
To vanquish satan in the fields of light?
Who strung thy feeble arms with might unknown,
How great thy conquest, and how bright thy crown!
War with each princedom, throne, and pow'r is o'er,
The scene is ended to return no more.
O could my muse thy seat on high behold,
How deckt with laurel, how enrich'd with gold!
O could she hear what praise thine harp employs,
How sweet thine anthems, how divine thy joys!
What heav'nly grandeur should exalt her strain!
What holy raptures in her numbers reign!
To sooth the troubles of the mind to peace,
To still the tumult of life's tossing seas,
To ease the anguish of the parents heart,
What shall my sympathizing verse impart?
Where is the balm to heal so deep a wound?
Where shall a sov'reign remedy be found?
Look, gracious Spirit, from thine heav'nly bow'r,
And thy full joys into their bosoms pour;
The raging tempest of their grief control,
And spread the dawn of glory through the soul,
To eye the path the saint departed trod,
And trace him to the bosom of his God.
FROM dark abodes to fair etherial light
Th' enraptur'd innocent has wing'd her flight;
On the kind bosom of eternal love
She finds unknown beatitude above.
This known, ye parents, nor her loss deplore,
She feels the iron hand of pain no more;
The dispensations of unerring grace,
Should turn your sorrows into grateful praise;
Let then no tears for her henceforward flow,
No more distress'd in our dark vale below,
Her morning sun, which rose divinely bright,
Was quickly mantled with the gloom of night;
But hear in heav'n's blest bow'rs your Nancy fair,
And learn to imitate her language there.
"Thou, Lord, whom I behold with glory crown'd,
"By what sweet name, and in what tuneful sound
"Wilt thou be prais'd?  Seraphic pow'rs are faint
"Infinite love and majesty to paint.
"To thee let all their graceful voices raise,
"And saints and angels join their songs of praise."
Perfect in bliss she from her heav'nly home
Looks down, and smiling beckons you to come;
Why then, fond parents, why these fruitless groans?
Restrain your tears, and cease your plaintive moans.
Freed from a world of sin, and snares, and pain,
Why would you wish your daughter back again?
No--bow resign'd.  Let hope your grief control,
And check the rising tumult of the soul.
Calm in the prosperous, and adverse day,
Adore the God who gives and takes away;
Eye him in all, his holy name revere,
Upright your actions, and your hearts sincere,
Till having sail'd through life's tempestuous sea,
And from its rocks, and boist'rous billows free,
Yourselves, safe landed on the blissful shore,
Shall join your happy babe to part no more.
THROUGH thickest glooms look back, immortal
shade,
On that confusion which thy death has made:
Or from Olympus' height look down, and see
A Town involv'd in grief bereft of thee.
Thy Lucy sees thee mingle with the dead,
And rends the graceful tresses from her head,
Wild in her woe, with grief unknown opprest
Sigh follows sigh deep heaving from her breast.
Too quickly fled, ah! whither art thou gone?
Ah! lost for ever to thy wife and son!
The hapless child, thine only hope and heir,
Clings round his mother's neck, and weeps his sorrows
there.
The loss of thee on Tyler's soul returns,
And Boston for her dear physician mourns.
When sickness call'd for Marshall's healing hand,
With what compassion did his soul expand?
In him we found the father and the friend:
In life how lov'd! how honour'd in his end!
And must not then our AEsculapius stay
To bring his ling'ring infant into day?
The babe unborn in the dark womb is tost,
And seems in anguish for its father lost.
Gone is Apollo from his house of earth,
But leaves the sweet memorials of his worth:
The common parent, whom we all deplore,
From yonder world unseen must come no more,
Yet 'midst our woes immortal hopes attend
The spouse, the sire, the universal friend.
We shall not ever meet them bearded in heaven
Nor sunning themselves among the bald of hell;
If anywhere, in the deserted schoolyard at twilight,
forming a ring, perhaps, or joining hands
In games whose very names we have forgotten.
Come memory, let us seek them there in the shadows.
No more the flow'ry scenes of pleasure rife,
Nor charming prospects greet the mental eyes,
No more with joy we view that lovely face
Smiling, disportive, flush'd with ev'ry grace.
The tear of sorrow flows from ev'ry eye,
Groans answer groans, and sighs to sighs reply;
What sudden pangs shot thro' each aching heart,
When, Death, thy messenger dispatch'd his dart?
Thy dread attendants, all-destroying Pow'r,
Hurried the infant to his mortal hour.
Could'st thou unpitying close those radiant eyes?
Or fail'd his artless beauties to surprise?
Could not his innocence thy stroke control,
Thy purpose shake, and soften all thy soul?
The blooming babe, with shades of Death o'erspread,
No more shall smile, no more shall raise its head,
But, like a branch that from the tree is torn,
Falls prostrate, wither'd, languid, and forlorn.
"Where flies my James?" 'tis thus I seem to hear
The parent ask, "Some angel tell me where
"He wings his passage thro' the yielding air?"
Methinks a cherub bending from the skies
Observes the question, and serene replies,
"In heav'ns high palaces your babe appears:
"Prepare to meet him, and dismiss your tears."
Shall not th' intelligence your grief restrain,
And turn the mournful to the cheerful strain?
Cease your complaints, suspend each rising sigh,
Cease to accuse the Ruler of the sky.
Parents, no more indulge the falling tear:
Let Faith to heav'n's refulgent domes repair,
There see your infant, like a seraph glow:
What charms celestial in his numbers flow
Melodious, while the foul-enchanting strain
Dwells on his tongue, and fills th' ethereal plain?
Enough--for ever cease your murm'ring breath;
Not as a foe, but friend converse with Death,
Since to the port of happiness unknown
He brought that treasure which you call your own.
The gift of heav'n intrusted to your hand
Cheerful resign at the divine command:
Not at your bar must sov'reign Wisdom stand.
CONDEMN'D to Hope's delusive mine,
As on we toil from day to day,
By sudden blasts or slow decline
Our social comforts drop away.
Well tried through many a varying year,
See Levet to the grave descend,
Officious, innocent, sincere,
Of every friendless name the friend.
Yet still he fills affection's eye,
Obscurely wise and coarsely kind;
Nor, letter'd Arrogance, deny
Thy praise to merit unrefined.
When fainting nature call'd for aid,
And hov'ring death prepared the blow,
His vig'rous remedy display'd
The power of art without the show.
In Misery's darkest cavern known,
His useful care was ever nigh,
Where hopeless Anguish pour'd his groan,
And lonely Want retired to die.
No summons mock'd by chill delay,
No petty gain disdained by pride;
The modest wants of every day
The toil of every day supplied.
His virtues walk'd their narrow round,
Nor made a pause, nor left a void;
And sure th' Eternal Master found
The single talent well employ'd.
The busy day, the peaceful night,
Unfelt, uncounted, glided by;
His frame was firm--his powers were bright,
Though now his eightieth year was nigh.
Then with no fiery throbbing pain,
No cold gradations of decay,
Death broke at once the vital chain,
And freed his soul the nearest way.
HAIL, happy saint, on thine immortal throne,
Possest of glory, life, and bliss unknown;
We hear no more the music of thy tongue,
Thy wonted auditories cease to throng.
Thy sermons in unequall'd accents flow'd,
And ev'ry bosom with devotion glow'd;
Thou didst in strains of eloquence refin'd
Inflame the heart, and captivate the mind.
Unhappy we the setting sun deplore,
So glorious once, but ah! it shines no more.
Behold the prophet in his tow'ring flight!
He leaves the earth for heav'n's unmeasur'd height,
And worlds unknown receive him from our sight.
There Whitefield wings with rapid course his way,
And sails to Zion through vast seas of day.
Thy pray'rs, great saint, and thine incessant cries
Have pierc'd the bosom of thy native skies.
Thou moon hast seen, and all the stars of light,
How he has wrestled with his God by night.
He pray'd that grace in ev'ry heart might dwell,
He long'd to see America excell;
He charg'd its youth that ev'ry grace divine
Should with full lustre in their conduct shine;
That Saviour, which his soul did first receive,
The greatest gift that ev'n a God can give,
He freely offer'd to the num'rous throng,
That on his lips with list'ning pleasure hung.
"Take him, ye wretched, for your only good,
"Take him ye starving sinners, for your food;
"Ye thirsty, come to this life-giving stream,
"Ye preachers, take him for your joyful theme;
"Take him my dear Americans, he said,
"Be your complaints on his kind bosom laid:
"Take him, ye Africans, he longs for you,
"Impartial Saviour is his title due:
"Wash'd in the fountain of redeeming blood,
"You shall be sons, and kings, and priests to God."
Great Countess,* we Americans revere
Thy name, and mingle in thy grief sincere;
New England deeply feels, the Orphans mourn,
Their more than father will no more return.
But, though arrested by the hand of death,
Whitefield no more exerts his lab'ring breath,
Yet let us view him in th' eternal skies,
Let ev'ry heart to this bright vision rise;
While the tomb safe retains its sacred trust,
Till life divine re-animates his dust.
*The Countess of Huntingdon, to whom Mr. Whitefield was
Chaplain.
(Español)
Mueran contigo, Laura, pues moriste,
los afectos que en vano te desean,
los ojos a quien privas de que vean
hermosa luz que a un tiempo concediste.
Muera mi lira infausta en que influiste
ecos, que lamentables te vocean,
y hasta estos rasgos mal formados sean
lágrimas negras de mi pluma triste.
Muévase a compasión la misma muerte
que, precisa, no pudo perdonarte;
y lamente el amor su amarga suerte,
pues si antes, ambicioso de gozarte,
deseó tener ojos para verte,
ya le sirvieran sólo de llorarte.
(English)
Let them die with you, Laura, now you are dead,
these longings that go out to you in vain,
these eyes on whom you once bestowed
a lovely light never to gleam again.
Let this unfortunate lyre that echoes still
to sounds you woke, perish calling your name,
and may these clumsy scribblings represent
black tears my pen has shed to ease its pain.
Let Death himself feel pity, and regret
that, bound by his own law, he could not spare you,
and Love lament the bitter circumstance
that if once, in his desire for pleasure,
he wished for eyes that they might feast on you,
now weeping is all those eyes could ever do.
Ere yet the morn its lovely blushes spread,
See Sewell number'd with the happy dead.
Hail, holy man, arriv'd th' immortal shore,
Though we shall hear thy warning voice no more.
Come, let us all behold with wishful eyes
The saint ascending to his native skies;
From hence the prophet wing'd his rapt'rous way
To the blest mansions in eternal day.
Then begging for the Spirit of our God,
And panting eager for the same abode,
Come, let us all with the same vigour rise,
And take a prospect of the blissful skies;
While on our minds Christ's image is imprest,
And the dear Saviour glows in ev'ry breast.
Thrice happy faint! to find thy heav'n at last,
What compensation for the evils past!
Great God, incomprehensible, unknown
By sense, we bow at thine exalted throne.
O, while we beg thine excellence to feel,
Thy sacred Spirit to our hearts reveal,
And give us of that mercy to partake,
Which thou hast promis'd for the Saviour's sake!
"Sewell is dead." Swift-pinion'd Fame thus cry'd.
"Is Sewell dead," my trembling tongue reply'd,
O what a blessing in his flight deny'd!
How oft for us the holy prophet pray'd!
How oft to us the Word of Life convey'd!
By duty urg'd my mournful verse to close,
I for his tomb this epitaph compose.
"Lo, here a man, redeem'd by Jesus's blood,
"A sinner once, but now a saint with God;
"Behold ye rich, ye poor, ye fools, ye wise,
"Not let his monument your heart surprise;
"Twill tell you what this holy man has done,
"Which gives him brighter lustre than the sun.
"Listen, ye happy, from your seats above.
"I speak sincerely, while I speak and love,
"He sought the paths of piety and truth,
"By these made happy from his early youth;
"In blooming years that grace divine he felt,
"Which rescues sinners from the chains of guilt.
"Mourn him, ye indigent, whom he has fed,
"And henceforth seek, like him, for living bread;
"Ev'n Christ, the bread descending from above,
"And ask an int'rest in his saving love.
"Mourn him, ye youth, to whom he oft has told
"God's gracious wonders from the times of old.
"I too have cause this mighty loss to mourn,
"For he my monitor will not return.
"O when shall we to his blest state arrive?
"When the same graces in our bosoms thrive."
To be absent from the body
Is to be present with the Lord
The dust returns to earth
The spirit returns to God Who gave it
(2 Cor 5: 8, Eccl 12: 7)
© 2011
death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death
Tired with all these, for restful death I cry,
As to behold desert a beggar born,
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
And strength by limping sway disablèd
And art made tongue-tied by authority,
And folly doctor-like controlling skill,
And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
And captive good attending captain ill.
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
Save that to die, I leave my love alone.
Part One - The Calling
Let me sleep, for my soul is intoxicated with love and
Let me rest, for my spirit has had its bounty of days and nights;
Light the candles and burn the incense around my bed, and
Scatter leaves of jasmine and roses over my body;
Embalm my hair with frankincense and sprinkle my feet with perfume,
And read what the hand of Death has written on my forehead.
Let me rest in the arms of Slumber, for my open eyes are tired;
Let the silver-stringed lyre quiver and soothe my spirit;
Weave from the harp and lute a veil around my withering heart.
Sing of the past as you behold the dawn of hope in my eyes, for
It's magic meaning is a soft bed upon which my heart rests.
Dry your tears, my friends, and raise your heads as the flowers
Raise their crowns to greet the dawn.
Look at the bride of Death standing like a column of light
Between my bed and the infinite;
Hold your breath and listen with me to the beckoning rustle of
Her white wings.
Come close and bid me farewell; touch my eyes with smiling lips.
Let the children grasp my hands with soft and rosy fingers;
Let the ages place their veined hands upon my head and bless me;
Let the virgins come close and see the shadow of God in my eyes,
And hear the echo of His will racing with my breath.
Part Two - The Ascending
I have passed a mountain peak and my soul is soaring in the
Firmament of complete and unbound freedom;
I am far, far away, my companions, and the clouds are
Hiding the hills from my eyes.
The valleys are becoming flooded with an ocean of silence, and the
Hands of oblivion are engulfing the roads and the houses;
The prairies and fields are disappearing behind a white specter
That looks like the spring cloud, yellow as the candlelight
And red as the twilight.
The songs of the waves and the hymns of the streams
Are scattered, and the voices of the throngs reduced to silence;
And I can hear naught but the music of Eternity
In exact harmony with the spirit's desires.
I am cloaked in full whiteness;
I am in comfort; I am in peace.
Part Three - The Remains
Unwrap me from this white linen shroud and clothe me
With leaves of jasmine and lilies;
Take my body from the ivory casket and let it rest
Upon pillows of orange blossoms.
Lament me not, but sing songs of youth and joy;
Shed not tears upon me, but sing of harvest and the winepress;
Utter no sigh of agony, but draw upon my face with your
Finger the symbol of Love and Joy.
Disturb not the air's tranquility with chanting and requiems,
But let your hearts sing with me the song of Eternal Life;
Mourn me not with apparel of black,
But dress in color and rejoice with me;
Talk not of my departure with sighs in your hearts; close
Your eyes and you will see me with you forevermore.
Place me upon clusters of leaves and
Carry my upon your friendly shoulders and
Walk slowly to the deserted forest.
Take me not to the crowded burying ground lest my slumber
Be disrupted by the rattling of bones and skulls.
Carry me to the cypress woods and dig my grave where violets
And poppies grow not in the other's shadow;
Let my grave be deep so that the flood will not
Carry my bones to the open valley;
Let my grace be wide, so that the twilight shadows
Will come and sit by me.
Take from me all earthly raiment and place me deep in my
Mother Earth; and place me with care upon my mother's breast.
Cover me with soft earth, and let each handful be mixed
With seeds of jasmine, lilies and myrtle; and when they
Grow above me, and thrive on my body's element they will
Breathe the fragrance of my heart into space;
And reveal even to the sun the secret of my peace;
And sail with the breeze and comfort the wayfarer.
Leave me then, friends - leave me and depart on mute feet,
As the silence walks in the deserted valley;
Leave me to God and disperse yourselves slowly, as the almond
And apple blossoms disperse under the vibration of Nisan's breeze.
Go back to the joy of your dwellings and you will find there
That which Death cannot remove from you and me.
Leave with place, for what you see here is far away in meaning
From the earthly world. Leave me.
THE warder looks down at the mid hour of night,
On the tombs that lie scatter'd below:
The moon fills the place with her silvery light,
And the churchyard like day seems to glow.
When see! first one grave, then another opes wide,
And women and men stepping forth are descried,
In cerements snow-white and trailing.
In haste for the sport soon their ankles they twitch,
And whirl round in dances so gay;
The young and the old, and the poor, and the rich,
But the cerements stand in their way;
And as modesty cannot avail them aught here,
They shake themselves all, and the shrouds soon appear
Scatter'd over the tombs in confusion.
Now waggles the leg, and now wriggles the thigh,
As the troop with strange gestures advance,
And a rattle and clatter anon rises high,
As of one beating time to the dance.
The sight to the warder seems wondrously queer,
When the villainous Tempter speaks thus in his ear:
"Seize one of the shrouds that lie yonder!"
Quick as thought it was done! and for safety he fled
Behind the church-door with all speed;
The moon still continues her clear light to shed
On the dance that they fearfully lead.
But the dancers at length disappear one by one,
And their shrouds, ere they vanish, they carefully don,
And under the turf all is quiet.
But one of them stumbles and shuffles there still,
And gropes at the graves in despair;
Yet 'tis by no comrade he's treated so ill
The shroud he soon scents in the air.
So he rattles the door--for the warder 'tis well
That 'tis bless'd, and so able the foe to repel,
All cover'd with crosses in metal.
The shroud he must have, and no rest will allow,
There remains for reflection no time;
On the ornaments Gothic the wight seizes now,
And from point on to point hastes to climb.
Alas for the warder! his doom is decreed!
Like a long-legged spider, with ne'er-changing speed,
Advances the dreaded pursuer.
The warder he quakes, and the warder turns pale,
The shroud to restore fain had sought;
When the end,--now can nothing to save him avail,--
In a tooth formed of iron is caught.
With vanishing lustre the moon's race is run,
When the bell thunders loudly a powerful One,
And the skeleton fails, crush'd to atoms.
When Peter Wanderwide was young
He wandered everywhere he would:
All that he approved was sung,
And most of what he saw was good.
When Peter Wanderwide was thrown
By Death himself beyond Auxerre,
He chanted in heroic tone
To priests and people gathered there:
"If all that I have loved and seen
Be with me on the Judgment Day,
I shall be saved the crowd between
From Satan and his foul array.
"Almighty God will surely cry,
'St. Michael! Who is this that stands
With Ireland in his dubious eye,
And Perigord between his hands,
"'And on his arm the stirrup-thongs,
And in his gait the narrow seas,
And in his mouth Burgundian songs,
But in his heart the Pyrenees?'
"St. Michael then will answer right
(And not without angelic shame),
'I seem to know his face by sight:
I cannot recollect his name . . . . ?'
"St. Peter will befriend me then,
Because my name is Peter too:
'I know him for the best of men
That ever walloped barley brew.
"'And though I did not know him well
And though his soul were clogged with sin,
I hold the keys of Heaven and Hell.
Be welcome, noble Peterkin.'
"Then shall I spread my native wings
And tread secure the heavenly floor,
And tell the blessed doubtful things
Of Val d'Aran and Perigord."
_________
This was the last and solemn jest
Of weary Peter Wanderwide.
He spoke it with a failing zest,
And having spoken it, he died.
He drowsed and was aware of silence heaped
Round him, unshaken as the steadfast walls;
Aqueous like floating rays of amber light,
Soaring and quivering in the wings of sleep.
Silence and safety; and his mortal shore
Lipped by the inward, moonless waves of death.
Someone was holding water to his mouth.
He swallowed, unresisting; moaned and dropped
Through crimson gloom to darkness; and forgot
The opiate throb and ache that was his wound.
Water—calm, sliding green above the weir.
Water—a sky-lit alley for his boat,
Bird- voiced, and bordered with reflected flowers
And shaken hues of summer; drifting down,
He dipped contented oars, and sighed, and slept.
Night, with a gust of wind, was in the ward,
Blowing the curtain to a glimmering curve.
Night. He was blind; he could not see the stars
Glinting among the wraiths of wandering cloud;
Queer blots of colour, purple, scarlet, green,
Flickered and faded in his drowning eyes.
Rain—he could hear it rustling through the dark;
Fragrance and passionless music woven as one;
Warm rain on drooping roses; pattering showers
That soak the woods; not the harsh rain that sweeps
Behind the thunder, but a trickling peace,
Gently and slowly washing life away.
He stirred, shifting his body; then the pain
Leapt like a prowling beast, and gripped and tore
His groping dreams with grinding claws and fangs.
But someone was beside him; soon he lay
Shuddering because that evil thing had passed.
And death, who'd stepped toward him, paused and stared.
Light many lamps and gather round his bed.
Lend him your eyes, warm blood, and will to live.
Speak to him; rouse him; you may save him yet.
He's young; he hated War; how should he die
When cruel old campaigners win safe through?
But death replied: 'I choose him.' So he went,
And there was silence in the summer night;
Silence and safety; and the veils of sleep.
Then, far away, the thudding of the guns.
When reeds are dead and a straw to thatch the marshes,
And feathered pampas-grass rides into the wind
Like aged warriors westward, tragic, thinned
Of half their tribe, and over the flattened rushes,
Stripped of its secret, open, stark and bleak,
Blackens afar the half-forgotten creek,—
Then leans on me the weight of the year, and crushes
My heart. I know that Beauty must ail and die,
And will be born again,—but ah, to see
Beauty stiffened, staring up at the sky!
Oh, Autumn! Autumn!—What is the Spring to me?
They put a leather belt around her
13 feet of tape and bound her
Handcuffs to secure her
And only God knows what else,
She's illegal, so deport her
Said the Empire that brought her
She died,
Nobody killed her
And she never killed herself.
It is our job to make her
Return to Jamaica
Said the Alien Deporters
Who deports people like me,
It was said she had a warning
That the officers were calling
On that deadly July morning
As her young son watched TV.
An officer unplugged the phone
Mother and child were now alone
When all they wanted was a home
A child watch Mummy die,
No matter what the law may say
A mother should not die this way
Let human rights come into play
And to everyone apply.
I know not of a perfect race
I know not of a perfect place
I know this is not a simple case
Of Yardies on the move,
We must talk some Race Relations
With the folks from immigration
About this kind of deportation
If things are to improve.
Let it go down in history
The word is that officially
She died democratically
In 13 feet of tape,
That Christian was over here
Because pirates were over there
The Bible sent us everywhere
To make Great Britain great.
Here lies the extradition squad
And we should all now pray to God
That as they go about their job
They make not one mistake,
For I fear as I walk the streets
That one day I just may meet
Officials who may tie my feet
And how would I escape.
I see my people demonstrating
And educated folks debating
The way they're separating
The elder from the youth,
When all they are demanding
Is a little overstanding
They too have family planning
Now their children want the truth.
As I move around I am eyeing
So many poets crying
And so many poets trying
To articulate the grief,
I cannot help but wonder
How the alien deporters
(As they said to press reporters)
Can feel absolute relief.
He's had the chest pains for weeks,
but doctors don't make house
calls to the North Pole,
he's let his Blue Cross lapse,
blood tests make him faint,
hospital gown always flap
open, waiting rooms upset
his stomach, and it's only
indigestion anyway, he thinks,
until, feeding the reindeer,
he feels as if a monster fist
has grabbed his heart and won't
stop squeezing. He can't
breathe, and the beautiful white
world he loves goes black,
and he drops on his jelly belly
in the snow and Mrs. Claus
tears out of the toy factory
wailing, and the elves wring
their little hands, and Rudolph's
nose blinks like a sad ambulance
light, and in a tract house
in Houston, Texas, I'm 8,
telling my mom that stupid
kids at school say Santa's a big
fake, and she sits with me
on our purple-flowered couch,
and takes my hand, tears
in her throat, the terrible
news rising in her eyes.
From my mother's sleep I fell into the State,
And I hunched in its belly till my wet fur froze.
Six miles from earth, loosed from its dream of life,
I woke to black flak and the nightmare fighters.
When I died they washed me out of the turret with a hose.
The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year,
Of wailing winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere.
Heaped in the hollows of the grove, the autumn leaves lie dead;
They rustle to the eddying gust, and to the rabbit's tread;
The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrubs the jay,
And from the wood-top calls the crow through all the gloomy day.
Where are the flowers, the fair young flowers, that lately sprang and stood
In brighter light and softer airs, a beauteous sisterhood?
Alas! they all are in their graves, the gentle race of flowers
Are lying in their lowly beds, with the fair and good of ours.
The rain is falling where they lie, but the cold November rain
Calls not from out the gloomy earth the lovely ones again.
The wind-flower and the violet, they perished long ago,
And the brier-rose and the orchis died amid the summer glow;
But on the hills the golden-rod, and the aster in the wood,
And the yellow sun-flower by the brook in autumn beauty stood,
Till fell the frost from the clear cold heaven, as falls the plague on men,
And the brightness of their smile was gone, from upland, glade, and glen.
And now, when comes the calm mild day, as still such days will come,
To call the squirrel and the bee from out their winter home;
When the sound of dropping nuts is heard, though all the trees are still,
And twinkle in the smoky light the waters of the rill,
The south wind searches for the flowers whose fragrance late he bore,
And sighs to find them in the wood and by the stream no more.
And then I think of one who in her youthful beauty died,
The fair meek blossom that grew up and faded by my side.
In the cold moist earth we laid her, when the forests cast the leaf,
And we wept that one so lovely should have a life so brief:
Yet not unmeet it was that one, like that young friend of ours,
So gentle and so beautiful, should perish with the flowers.
Mary sat musing on the lamp-flame at the table
Waiting for Warren. When she heard his step,
She ran on tip-toe down the darkened passage
To meet him in the doorway with the news
And put him on his guard. "Silas is back."
She pushed him outward with her through the door
And shut it after her. "Be kind," she said.
She took the market things from Warren's arms
And set them on the porch, then drew him down
To sit beside her on the wooden steps.
"When was I ever anything but kind to him?
But I'll not have the fellow back," he said.
"I told him so last haying, didn't I?
'If he left then,' I said, 'that ended it.'
What good is he? Who else will harbour him
At his age for the little he can do?
What help he is there's no depending on.
Off he goes always when I need him most.
'He thinks he ought to earn a little pay,
Enough at least to buy tobacco with,
So he won't have to beg and be beholden.'
'All right,' I say, 'I can't afford to pay
Any fixed wages, though I wish I could.'
'Someone else can.' 'Then someone else will have to.'
I shouldn't mind his bettering himself
If that was what it was. You can be certain,
When he begins like that, there's someone at him
Trying to coax him off with pocket-money,--
In haying time, when any help is scarce.
In winter he comes back to us. I'm done."
"Sh! not so loud: he'll hear you," Mary said.
"I want him to: he'll have to soon or late."
"He's worn out. He's asleep beside the stove.
When I came up from Rowe's I found him here,
Huddled against the barn-door fast asleep,
A miserable sight, and frightening, too--
You needn't smile--I didn't recognise him--
I wasn't looking for him--and he's changed.
Wait till you see."
"Where did you say he'd been?"
"He didn't say. I dragged him to the house,
And gave him tea and tried to make him smoke.
I tried to make him talk about his travels.
Nothing would do: he just kept nodding off."
"What did he say? Did he say anything?"
"But little."
"Anything? Mary, confess
He said he'd come to ditch the meadow for me."
"Warren!"
" ;But did he? I just want to know."
"Of course he did. What would you have him say?
Surely you wouldn't grudge the poor old man
Some humble way to save his self-respect.
He added, if you really care to know,
He meant to clear the upper pasture, too.
That sounds like something you have heard before?
Warren, I wish you could have heard the way
He jumbled everything. I stopped to look
Two or three times--he made me feel so queer--
To see if he was talking in his sleep.
He ran on Harold Wilson--you remember--
The boy you had in haying four years since.
He's finished school, and teaching in his college.
Silas declares you'll have to get him back.
He says they two will make a team for work:
Between them they will lay this farm as smooth!
The way he mixed that in with other things.
He thinks young Wilson a likely lad, though daft
On education--you know how they fought
All through July under the blazing sun,
Silas up on the cart to build the load,
Harold along beside to pitch it on."
"Yes, I took care to keep well out of earshot."
"Well, those days trouble Silas like a dream.
You wouldn't think they would. How some things linger!
Harold's young college boy's assurance piqued him.
After so many years he still keeps finding
Good arguments he sees he might have used.
I sympathise. I know just how it feels
To think of the right thing to say too late.
Harold's associated in his mind with Latin.
He asked me what I thought of Harold's saying
He studied Latin like the violin
Because he liked it--that an argument!
He said he couldn't make the boy believe
He could find water with a hazel prong--
Which showed how much good school had ever done him.
He wanted to go over that. But most of all
He thinks if he could have another chance
To teach him how to build a load of hay----"
"I know, that's Silas' one accomplishment.
He bundles every forkful in its place,
And tags and numbers it for future reference,
So he can find and easily dislodge it
In the unloading. Silas does that well.
He takes it out in bunches like big birds' nests.
You never see him standing on the hay
He's trying to lift, straining to lift himself."
"He thinks if he could teach him that, he'd be
Some good perhaps to someone in the world.
He hates to see a boy the fool of books.
Poor Silas, so concerned for other folk,
And nothing to look backward to with pride,
And nothing to look forward to with hope,
So now and never any different."
Part of a moon was falling down the west,
Dragging the whole sky with it to the hills.
Its light poured softly in her lap. She saw
And spread her apron to it. She put out her hand
Among the harp-like morning-glory strings,
Taut with the dew from garden bed to eaves,
As if she played unheard the tenderness
That wrought on him beside her in the night.
"Warren," she said, "he has come home to die:
You needn't be afraid he'll leave you this time."
"Home," he mocked gently.
"Yes, what else but home?
It all depends on what you mean by home.
Of course he's nothing to us, any more
Than was the hound that came a stranger to us
Out of the woods, worn out upon the trail."
"Home is the place where, when you have to go there,
They have to take you in."
"I should have called it
Something you somehow haven't to deserve."
Warren leaned out and took a step or two,
Picked up a little stick, and brought it back
And broke it in his hand and tossed it by.
"Silas has better claim on us you think
Than on his brother? Thirteen little miles
As the road winds would bring him to his door.
Silas has walked that far no doubt to-day.
Why didn't he go there? His brother's rich,
A somebody--director in the bank."
"He never told us that."
"We know it though."
"I think his brother ought to help, of course.
I'll see to that if there is need. He ought of right
To take him in, and might be willing to--
He may be better than appearances.
But have some pity on Silas. Do you think
If he'd had any pride in claiming kin
Or anything he looked for from his brother,
He'd keep so still about him all this time?"
"I wonder what's between them."
"I can tell you.
Silas is what he is--we wouldn't mind him--
But just the kind that kinsfolk can't abide.
He never did a thing so very bad.
He don't know why he isn't quite as good
As anyone. He won't be made ashamed
To please his brother, worthless though he is."
"I can't think Si ever hurt anyone."
"No, but he hurt my heart the way he lay
And rolled his old head on that sharp-edged chair-back.
He wouldn't let me put him on the lounge.
You must go in and see what you can do.
I made the bed up for him there to-night.
You'll be surprised at him--how much he's broken.
His working days are done; I'm sure of it."
"I'd not be in a hurry to say that."
"I haven't been. Go, look, see for yourself.
But, Warren, please remember how it is:
He's come to help you ditch the meadow.
He has a plan. You mustn't laugh at him.
He may not speak of it, and then he may.
I'll sit and see if that small sailing cloud
Will hit or miss the moon."
It hit the moon.
Then there were three there, making a dim row,
The moon, the little silver cloud, and she.
Warren returned--too soon, it seemed to her,
Slipped to her side, caught up her hand and waited.
"Warren," she questioned.
"Dead," was all he answered.
I woke in a place that was dark
The air was spicy and still
I was bandaged from head to foot
The morning that death was killed.
I rose from a mattress of stone
I folded my clothes on the sill
I heard the door rolling open
The morning that death was killed.
I walked alone in the garden
The birds in the branches trilled
It felt like a new beginning
The morning that death was killed.
Mary, she came there to find me
Peter with wonder was filled
And John came running and jumping
The morning that death was killed.
My friends were lost in amazement
My father, I knew, was thrilled
Things were never the same again
After the morning that death was killed.
GRIM monarch! see, depriv'd of vital breath,
A young physician in the dust of death:
Dost thou go on incessant to destroy,
Our griefs to double, and lay waste our joy?
Enough thou never yet wast known to say,
Though millions die, the vassals of thy sway:
Nor youth, nor science, not the ties of love,
Nor ought on earth thy flinty heart can move.
The friend, the spouse from his dire dart to save,
In vain we ask the sovereign of the grave.
Fair mourner, there see thy lov'd Leonard laid,
And o'er him spread the deep impervious shade.
Clos'd are his eyes, and heavy fetters keep
His senses bound in never-waking sleep,
Till time shall cease, till many a starry world
Shall fall from heav'n, in dire confusion hurl'd
Till nature in her final wreck shall lie,
And her last groan shall rend the azure sky:
Not, not till then his active soul shall claim
His body, a divine immortal frame.
But see the softly-stealing tears apace
Pursue each other down the mourner's face;
But cease thy tears, bid ev'ry sigh depart,
And cast the load of anguish from thine heart:
From the cold shell of his great soul arise,
And look beyond, thou native of the skies;
There fix thy view, where fleeter than the wind
Thy Leonard mounts, and leaves the earth behind.
Thyself prepare to pass the vale of night
To join for ever on the hills of light:
To thine embrace this joyful spirit moves
To thee, the partner of his earthly loves;
He welcomes thee to pleasures more refin'd,
And better suited to th' immortal mind.
WHILE deep you mourn beneath the cypress-shade
The hand of Death, and your dear daughter
laid
In dust, whose absence gives your tears to flow,
And racks your bosom with incessant woe,
Let Recollection take a tender part,
Assuage the raging tortures of your heart,
Still the wild tempest of tumultuous grief,
And pour the heav'nly nectar of relief:
Suspend the sigh, dear Sir, and check the groan,
Divinely bright your daughter's Virtues shone:
How free from scornful pride her gentle mind,
Which ne'er its aid to indigence declin'd!
Expanding free, it sought the means to prove
Unfailing charity, unbounded love!
She unreluctant flies to see no more
Her dear-lov'd parents on earth's dusky shore:
Impatient heav'n's resplendent goal to gain,
She with swift progress cuts the azure plain,
Where grief subsides, where changes are no more,
And life's tumultuous billows cease to roar;
She leaves her earthly mansion for the skies,
Where new creations feast her wond'ring eyes.
To heav'n's high mandate cheerfully resign'd
She mounts, and leaves the rolling globe behind;
She, who late wish'd that Leonard might return,
Has ceas'd to languish, and forgot to mourn;
To the same high empyreal mansions come,
She joins her spouse, and smiles upon the tomb:
And thus I hear her from the realms above:
"Lo! this the kingdom of celestial love!
"Could ye, fond parents, see our present bliss,
"How soon would you each sigh, each fear dismiss?
"Amidst unutter'd pleasures whilst I play
"In the fair sunshine of celestial day,
"As far as grief affects an happy soul
"So far doth grief my better mind controul,
"To see on earth my aged parents mourn,
"And secret wish for T-----! to return:
"Let brighter scenes your ev'ning-hours employ:
"Converse with heav'n, and taste the promis'd joy"
WHISPERS of heavenly death, murmur'd I hear;
Labial gossip of night--sibilant chorals;
Footsteps gently ascending--mystical breezes, wafted soft and low;
Ripples of unseen rivers--tides of a current, flowing, forever
flowing;
(Or is it the plashing of tears? the measureless waters of human
tears?)
I see, just see, skyward, great cloud-masses;
Mournfully, slowly they roll, silently swelling and mixing;
With, at times, a half-dimm'd, sadden'd, far-off star,
Appearing and disappearing.
(Some parturition, rather--some solemn, immortal birth:            10
On the frontiers, to eyes impenetrable,
Some Soul is passing over.)
Stab me with your rusty knives
I don't care
I've given up my quest for acceptance
Left my dream of peace
Cut me all your evil mind wants
I beg you to let me die
I want to lie here on the floor
Bleed to nothingness in the night
Perhaps then my soul will fly
Unite with the wind and muggy air
Feel the warmth of joy's arms
So do what you want to my useless heart
Chop me to pieces or burn me alive
If death is my only way to salvation
Then I want to open the darkened door now.
Trapped in this field of sonic agression
Unable to distinquish rhythm from rhyme
Urban style freak contemplatin loose ends
Alienated in this hardcore river of  trends
Speak louder to be friendly
2 cups of depression
all he has
2 cups of depression
all fake colours of expression
Oh my God the pain
of desperation
within the walls
of my depression...
the greyness of it all
a world awash in muted tones,
blandness as its epitome
blocking life's rainbows
from existence within my memory
reaching deeply with suffocating tendrils
that wrap my soul in confusion
and disgrace...
a great sadness
abounds here, locked
behind closed doors, awaiting
loves anxious arms
that come no more...
Shirley Hanley  9/15/09
A POEM OF FRUSTRATION, RAGE, BITTERNESS, RESENTMENT, DISAPPOINTMENT, ENVY, SADNESS, SICKNESS, DEPRESSION, FEAR
A poem of frustration, rage, bitterness, resentment, disappointment, envy, sadness, sickness, despair, depression, fear-
All feelings of down and darkness and shame and lust and emptiness
A poem of ugliness inside and anger which has no goodness in it
A poem to blame myself and the world
A poem of guilt and loneliness and nothingness and sadness again and again
A poem no one ever needs to feel
A bad poem on bad things
Ugly ugly ugly
As if even the earth were made in the image of darkness and death
Such a sad bad poem and such inner anger and sickness and sadness
What can it all mean?
When I am a person of such good intention
Who wants the best for us all?
What can it all mean
When God wants us to be better and better and good?
I don’t know.
I am just a little complaining discontent not yet at the end of my road perhaps.
God help me out of this again, please.
I am a slave
To depression
Because I have to live with it
And that is a hard thing to do
Also that is a hard thing to keep under control
For me
Speak out my dear
Why hath thou in a state of depression?
Speak out my dear
I stand here waiting for thy confession
Depression is not a sign of weakness
Neither an indication of madness
I stand here not to judge you
Simply to take heed to what is true
Depression is not a crime
It only calls for love through time
Depression is a silent voice
Rooted deep inside to stop a crying noise
Speak out my dear
Why hath thou in a state of depression?
Speak out my dear
I stand here waiting for thy confession
What have you lost along the way?
Retrace your steps, I say
Who have you lost?
Take heart, everything in life must rust
What is it you want?
Grant me a permit in your hunt
But first of all let me be blunt
Condemn yourself not for your mistakes
That is what it takes for you to be awake
Life is meant to be messy and greasy
The road is not meant to be easy
Speak out my dear
Why hath thou in a state of depression?
Speak out my dear
I stand here as a friend
My compassionate heart is yours to lend
Merely to give you inspiration
And redeem you of your depression
Thus, speak out my dear!
Why hath thou in a state of depression?
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
Many ask, if I'm high,
Many ask, if I'm low,
Many ask, why are you so happy?
And many ask, why are you so sad?
Many questions asked, and I don't answer,
Many don't ask questions, and I'm left to question myself,
Many ask, what's wrong with you?
And many ask, what's wrong?
Many seem confused, but I don't care,
Many don't care, and now I'm confused.
Many wonder,
Many care,
Many laugh,
As I breathe for air.
Many know me, and I couldn't care less,
Many don't know me, and now I couldn't care more.
For those who don't know me,
I'm full of ups and downs,
Twists and turns,
Lefts and rights,
Many roller coaster rides.
My energy goes up and down,
My brain twists and turns,
My mood swings from left to right,
And then from right to left,
And then once more just a couple more times,
It's like a never-ending pendulum.
I think of life as an emotional roller coaster ride,
That has no beginning,
And has no middle,
And most of all has no ending.
Confused much?
I would think so...
But do you understand...
...What it's like to live with Bipolar Depression? ...
Depression is being lonely in a room full of people
Depression is being constantly tired but never able to sleep
Depression is longing to be with others yet not being able to cope with company
Depression makes you lose your appetite and eat yourself fat
Depression is smiling to hide the pain inside
Depression is when the soul dies but the body keeps on living
Depression is forgetting who you used to be
Depression is not knowing if you could survive without it
Depression is being sad when nothing is wrong
Depression is not caring whether you live or die
Depression is having no interest in the things you used to love
Depression is lying awake for hours in bed at night contemplating the best way to kill yourself only to realise that you can’t be bothered.
I remember as a child I had a deep seeded fear of heights
I would envision my demise long prior to even a possible fall
Once as a teenage boy I knocked a front tooth from my mouth
When I jumped twenty feet into a drainage ditch next to our house
My mother rushed me to the dentist with my tooth in milk
He soon restored my youthful smile
But did little if any at all to replace my fear of falling
As I still panicked whenever I even stood close to a ledge....
For the last sixty years I have managed to cope more or less
Always waking up before any tragedy occurred
But last night upon being led to this cliff in my life
I jumped and have not landed yet
as I knew it was a bottomless pit I was entering....
Staring at the walls...at the pictures that hang there
each photo...of it all
each step of our relationship..that started, with lust, wanting and care
the last picture that is hung
showing the ultimate happiness, of us being in love
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
just staring at these things...
the photos on the wall
and the finger that holds my engagement ring
looking around the room, looking at it all
now just filled with dread, n, doom
the dieing roses in the crystal vase
marks the symbol..of the day
when it all was lost, n, went away
the photo album that we made
starts with the pictures of our 1st date, where it started
the last picture is of us, in love
3 days, b4 love was departed
is of the day you proposed, look at it, we are so in love
a red box that had matched
the teddy bear with the red herat attached
in which you gave to me b4 the proposal, inside it held the ring
to unite our love, to bring
us 2gether, from now til 4ever
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
JUST LOOKING AT THESE THINGS
the 2 wine glasses,4m which we drank, sealing the deal
a begining to our new fate
n to our proposal, we gave, love cheers, and thanks
the card thats hung,4m the dieing flowers in theyre crystal vase
that you gave.....to me..b4 you kneeled onto 1 knee
uttering the most 4 words a man can say...
all of it is now gonn..just taken away
just in such a short time....3 damn days
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
JUST HOLDING THESE THINGS....
the pictures, the wine glass
the teddy bear with the red heart attached
the photo album, the 1st photo, in which we started
the courtship, that blossomed into a beautiful relationship
the last photo, hung on the wall...its left me so broken hearted
the cards i kept in a shoe box, from you, giving to me through
no reason @ all, my birthday, holidays, n anniversary
each card filled with words of love, each card, having its own diversity
I GET THE DEEPEST DEPRESSION
JUST HOLDING, N, TOUCHING, OR LOOKING AT ALL OUR THINGS
to the life we had, the home we made
that just vanished...poof, went away.....
DEEPEST DEPRESSION OVER EVERYTHING....
ESPECIALIALLY THE FINGER THAT WEARS MY ENGAGEMENT RING.....
A wind blows across your face, leaving a itch on your nose.
You reach up to scratch it, but your arm doesn't move.
You look down only to see your skin is made of glass.
You panic, and suddenly feel out of breath.
Taking shallow breaths you begin to worry.
You know that the slightest movement will cause you to shatter into pieces
The wind continues, making your itch worse.
You know your going to sneeze, but what can you do?
Then it happens, your body brakes into pieces, but the pain never comes though, why?
Because you woke up.
You remember a summer as a little kid, playing hide and go seek with your parents.
You decide to go hide in the barn.
Hiding behind the haystack there you wait.
Sometime later, the stale smell of hay is replaced by a rancid sticky smell that you remember but can't place.
When you emerge, you've discovered your parents laying across the barn floor.
Their throats have been ripped out.
You scream and try to run.
But it's to late, they rise and bring you into their dark embrace.
Then you wait for the inevitable, for the pain of the teeth sinking into you skin.
But it never came, you know why?
Because you woke up.
One day you look into the mirror, sadness and frustration pour out of you eyes.
You want it all to go away.
And yet you find yourself thinking of everyone around you, your friends who care about.
And somehow I'm put into the mix, mabye it's because deep down you could possible know that I love you.
Then with an anger you rip your wrists apart with your nails.
Locking your bathroom door, you whisper something.
It sounded like “I'm sorry”
Then you get in your tub of ice water.
An hour later your still there, your cloths stained by your own blood.
The tub doesn't seem to be full of water anymore…
You wait for the hypothermia, but it never came.
You know why?
Because you died forty-five minutes ago from blood loss.
So, if anyone knows the answer, how can you survive depression and abuse, but not yourself?
Depression is a fight
Depression is a flight
Depression is a thief
That should be locked up
Depression steals your view on life
And even your very life
It brings to you seclusion
Worse than that of a grave
And darkness
Worse than that of a cave
It keeps you away
It doesn’t allow you to be gay
It keeps you back
It doesn’t allow any comeback
It keeps you pressured
It keeps you shattered
It brings to you tearing tears
With depression there is no in-between
You’re in a dark tunnel
With no light to be seen
Depression we say is a selfish state of mind
But when we get depressed there is no other we can find
Depression is predator and we’re all its prey
Tick tock tick tock goes the clock
Its only a matter of time
Before the ultimate climb
Depression isnt just something you get over eventually
depression stays with you till the end
depression is my best friend
and sorrow my main man
they never leave my side even if i want them to
my world is covered in black and there is no way to see the light
so might as well end it now
and shove a rusty knife through my heart
Depression results
When ideas are supressed
and feelings ignored
There was a time not too long afar,
Where life was the norm;  mortgage, partner, dog and car.
The journey of life has no set plan,
It may seem to be traveling straight and narrow,
But against all wishes it may unexpectedly fan.
During this voyage we all aim to seek,
For many a person their vision is cloudy, and bleak.
When your life begins to deviate from this norm,
Your minds response is governed by an instinctive form.
To do or die, to fight or flight, if the mind is not of health,
There is no defense that can be bought by wealth.
The mind is powerful we all know,
In times of crisis it is its own foe.
When your head hits the pillow late at night,
All you crave is some respite.
Your thoughts won’t shut down to give you rest,
This will eventually delet your smile, to a frown at best.
When your thoughts are foggy amongst a cloud you can’t fathom,
You begin to spiral down this unwarranted chasm.
The fog is a black dog.
It roams freely and bites at will, without intervention and self preservation.
Its bite will inevitably kill.
The black dog is a clone of ones’ mind, open for all to see,
Allow it to roam and it will devour you, as it has to me.
One out of four, this dog will seek.
Its jaws are too powerful for the emotionally meek.
I have been bitten by this indiscriminant and unforgiving beast.
I thought I alone could conquer and resist its total debilitating feast.
I chose to ignore its prior warnings of desire.
My conscious mind made me a liar.
How naive I was, to reason,
That I alone could defeat my own minds’ treason.
We start to deflate in mood and aspiration,
Like an unloved child’s toy we end up in misery and condemnation.
The isolation is a factor that affects all bitten.
Yet we are told, we will improve, because, it is written.
To those who are bitten, and have become infected,
We succumb to dark desires, without being detected.
The black dog hides behind many masks,
This temporarily allows us to perform our daily tasks.
With the duration of time and self denial,
There comes a point where no mask can be retrieved, from an endless file.
Tired, weary and socially inept,
The ever tightening hold, will never ease, until you accept.
We all try to escape and ignore the realism of today, (whether through the use of masks, alcohol or drugs) ,
We all visibly start to self decay.
Ownership of the problem is the first step to take,
Discard these masks, they are an emotional fake.
See your doctor, search on the net,
Just ensure you are informatively well kept.
Seek a referral for specialist care,
The first meeting will seem daunting, but it will confront the dog, in an emotional dare.
The journey to improvement requires time and fare,
It hastens when we are amongst those, who truly show care.
A simple hug, a little smile,
Will work miracles to exhaust the internal fire.
Once all the masks are gone and you are finally self aware,
Always be true to your heart, and refute, any potential dare.
Depression destroyed my life.
It told me I was no good.
It told me I was all bad.
It told me I was not loved.
It told me I didn't deserve treatment.
It told me I deserved to die.
Depression destroyed my life.
I listened to what it was saying.
I told myself I was no good.
I told myself I wasn't loved because I was bad.
I didn't seek treatment to feel better.
I tried to kill myself for his entertainment.
Depression destroyed me.
I am left picking up the pieces.
He has left me alone.
He said it was to late for help now.
He left me scared and confused.
He is still here.
He wants to keep me.
And he will keep me.
Depression destroyed my life.
All I am asking is that it does not destroy yours.
Depression hurts when you grow old
And life  has passed you by
No more dreams to think about
Or even wishes to come true
You lose a friend and then another and
There's no past to talk about
No laughter, only tears to shed
That others cannot see
Depression hurts no matter what you try
It breaks you down till nothing matters
Life doesn't matter either
You come or go, who cares
No one that really cares too much
No friend thats left to tell your troubles to
No love that puts its arms around you
And holds you close.
Why stay and sit in this old chair
With nothing to do day after day
Smoke cigarettes, why not
Its too late now to care
Goodbye to this life I would gladly say
Why God won't take me now
I do not know because he knows I want to go
Home with others that I love
There's more up there than down here
More love from friends in heaven
No friends do I count down here
Depression hurts, it hurts down deep inside
It breaks your heart and destroys your mind
Your thoughts are eratic and blown
Until the thoughts that used to come
Are gone forever,  depression hurts
I read this quote
“Depression is anger without enthusiasm.”
I don’t believe that for a second,
I think depression is loneliness,
Feeling so lonely inside
Even if the world surrounds you
And knowing you cant blame anyone but yourself
But that’s just me.
And even worse
When the people you’d think know you best,
Don’t even notice.
Depression to me is
An overwhelming feeling
of defeat
Feeling that somehow,
In a game, you verses life
You lose
And there is no
Double or nothing
Or a such thing as re-do’s
Some of us accept it
And try other strategies
Others are left
Only to dwell
On what tactics they could have changed.
Depression is raging.
In the mist of its anger.
It eats my happiness.
Fasting on my sadness.
Depression has its hold on me.
Throwing me into despair.
Making me more and more insane
As my mind it drains.
Depression'll take me all the more
It dosent care so long as it has its hit.
It hates me every single bit.
Every day it kills me a bit more.
It wont stop till its had its frill
It wont stop till its got me dead.
Depression is a world
Depression leaves you lost
Depression drops you into a never ending black hole
You want to get help
But you can't
When you do
You wish you didn't
Depression leaves you numb
With fear
Depression leaves you no hope
No ambition
Nothing to look forward to
Tears well in your eyes
Depression leaks out
Out into the open
Depression isn't obvious but suicide is.
My pain nobody sees.
My my mangled body they shall see.
My head was all but a mess.
Depression overtaking me.
Suicide was to be my bid for freedom.
Becuase deppression isn't obvious but suicide is.
Depression is never obvious even when its staring them in the face.
But now suicide will be obvious  how can it not?
Now my life is too much to bear.
Suicide I shall commit.
Now its obvious but its all too late.
Depression is Loving someone with nothing in return,
Depression is Slowly living instead of jumping head first,
Depression is Acknowledging the mistake but without learn,
Depression is Not trying, giving into your lifes curse.
Depression is Cutting and cutting thinking you cant stop,
Depression is Staying quiet thinking no-one will care,
Depression is Floating around with the desire to drop,
Depression is Ignoring the people who always seem to be there.
Depression is Trying to end the life youve been given,
Depression is Watching other people watch you,
Depression is Giving up instead of being hard driven,
Depression is Depression, do you feel it too?
Depression hits you
Like a ten-ton truck.
One minute you are down
Then you are up.
With depression
there is no in-between.
You are in a dark tunnel
with no light to be seen.
You try to pull through
Try to cheer up.
You are sick of people
telling you:
'Enough is enough.'
It's energy-sapping
And you're always feeling rough.
When you're feeling worthless
friends and family you can't trust.
They are hanging around
Making a scene.
You know that they are worried -
still - you want them to leave.
Depression
is a very selfish
'State of Mind'.
But when you got Depression
no other 'State' can you find
When people say to you:
'It's time to cheer up.'
That is when it hits you
Like a ten-ton truck...
Depression makes me feel pain
Depression makes me stupid
Depression makes me feel low
Depression makes me mad
Depression makes me sad
Depression makes me forget world
Depression makes me tensed
Depression makes me lose self control
Depression makes me hate everyone
Depression makes me think over and over
Depression makes me feel lonely
Depression makes me think wild
Depression makes me worthless
Depression makes me sick
What does Depression give me?
When it runs high…
It will make me Die - REST IN PEACE…
Spinning faster and faster, spiraling down, down,
Depression creates a suffocating heaviness
which consumes and smothers your entire being.
As i recall this space in time,
it seems as though viewing an experience that belongs
to a stranger.
My physical body defeated,
so tired there is no movement.
Eratic thought patterns that make no sense.
Who is controlling these thoughts?
My mind is in control,
which now belongs to the very dark powerful emotion of
Depression.
This emotion gathers together, confusion, negativity, loss,
misery, self hatred, guilt, and doubt,
all joining forces and circling faster, causing dizziness
and taking me down to a cold, dark place full of sadness.
This sadness so overwhelming it comes crashing,
over and over like pounding waves,
its too dark to see anything,
the next wave crashes over with no time for a breath
before the next wave floods tears that fall
as though they will never stop falling.
Nothing makes any sense -
I am lost, it is dark, it is cold, I am scared,
in this darkness i fall deeper into this nightmare.
1st September 2003
My life seemed picture perfect with a loving wife and son, with a bun in the oven my life had just begun.
But my head couldn’t leave the pillow, getting out seemed too hard to swallow, I knew something major in my life really needed to be done.
When the warm embrace of death surrounds your tired soul.
My mind was outside my body and my head was full of fog.
I went to the doctor, I went to the shrink, and every one of them told me that I had to have a long think.
Do I want a life of shallow thoughts that were hidden by beer and pain, or do I want to be the person that I used to be again?
Strangers thought that I was self centred and emotionally inept. But what it was I really desired was love and self respect.
For so long I endeavoured to wear an emotional mask but the duration of time has eroded the comfort of this façade.
My persona had vanished, I was unable to make a decision. This uncontrollable process, devoured me of fulfilling my vision.
If I wanted to help my family, then first I needed to help myself, I checked into a specialised clinic, ashamed, disillusioned, and under a wrath of stealth.
I found the counselling a godsend, the nurses full of wit and charm, this empathy had a positive effect and restored my former humility and calm.
The loved ones in my life couldn’t understand and see, that at this point in my life the focus had to be me.
You don’t have to feel this way, you don’t have to feel like you can’t get help. You don’t have to wallow in your own misery just to find a sense of self. Help is available  in many different ways. Ownership of your state of mind, is the most difficult step to take.
Take pleasure in life’s subtle things, and acknowledge every success, place your self in the hands of experts, and you will benefit without duress.
I learned that life really was worth living, no matter what my state of mind. The deeper I looked inside myself the more demons I would find.
My thoughts were full of paranoia, of hatred and of fear, all my thoughts came from a cloud that was lodged between my ears.
When you’ve lost your job or can’t go to work and there is nothing to look forward too, when you’re too anxious just to leave the house and there is nothing you feel you can do. The future feels so helpless it seems like nothing could make it right. If sleep is non-existent and your thoughts keep you up all night.
I promise you will get better, just give help a chance, you may not see it clearly now but soon you’ll get up and dance. Dance with all your family, dance with all your friends but more important than anyone else dance within your self.
By Peter Bouboulos and Nathan Lea
Depression is being lonely in a room full of people
Depression is being constantly tired but never able to sleep
Depression is longing to be with others yet not being able to cope with company
Depression makes you lose your appetite and eat yourself fat
Depression is smiling to hide the pain inside
Depression is when the soul dies but the body keeps on living
Depression is forgetting who you used to be
Depression is not knowing if you could survive without it
Depression is being sad when nothing is wrong
Depression is not caring whether you live or die
Depression is having no interest in the things you used to love
Depression is lying awake for hours in bed at night contemplating the best way to kill yourself only to realise that you can’t be bothered.
Oh horid ways of emotions.
All actions tryed are of no use.
All actions acted are usless.
No matter the action its all in vain.
I cant go anywhere
Running is usless and of no point.
I cant go no where.
Even if the option were open.
Oh depression horrible depression
Hold me back ever more
Pin me down with the force of your grace.
Depression my one true friend.
A sad dark and lonely place.
Sit upon the walls.
Its so sad and vacant.
Vacant like my happy days.
Depression takes me
More and more each day.
Feeding on my sadness.
This is an everelasting scar
A scar not to heal
A scar not to mend.
It will bring me to my end
Oh horid ways of emotions.
All actions tryed are of no use.
All actions acted are usless.
No matter the action its all in vain.
I cant go anywhere
Running is usless and of no point.
I cant go no where.
Even if the option were open.
Oh depression horrible depression
Hold me back ever more
Pin me down with the force of your grace.
Depression my one true friend.
A sad dark and lonely place.
Sit upon the walls.
Its so sad and vacant.
Vacant like my happy days.
Depression takes me
More and more each day.
Feeding on my sadness.
This is an everelasting scar
A scar not to heal
A scar not to mend.
It will bring me to my end
The unnamed feelings
Eating me alive, and depression
Is lying inside....
As the thin dark ropes falling from the sky
The brown knots are dancing in front of my eyes
I quickly closed them and pray
'God, am I losing my mind? '
I hold my blade and cut my unloved wrist
It's bleeding still but I can't feel relief yet
I ran to the balcony as am looking down and wondering
If the height is enough to smash my head over the floor?
Will it be enough to break my out through this door?
The monster inside my head is calling my name
And asking me to suicide...
It screams inside and then orders me to die
Die dying...
You are not alive
Just cut it deeper and die...you don't want to survive
'God, I'm screaming for your help
I'm begging for a relief
A moment of inner peace
Did you forget me I'm still here living in this empty shell f grief
Can't you remember me....?
A black hole, closes in
Blocking the light, cold within.
A swallowing mass, empty and black
Tears me apart, supermassive attack.
Icy hands rip out my heart
I’m so messed up, i’m torn apart.
I cannot breathe, it’s suffocation
I’m on my own, in isolation.
The darker it gets, the less I see,
I’m trapped, there’s no way out for me.
Behind a smile, in me hide,
No-one knows, i’m dying inside.
Yet I wake each morning and carry on
I will not cry, i must be strong!
depression is not what you want in your life
depression is not the answer to your problems
depression effects your mind and your thoughts
depression is anger and lashing out at people
depression is something you feel when no else cares about you
A period of crying can betray the soul
Showing the pain that makes us whole.
Without pain what would happiness be?
Would it be there for us to see.
Would we not know happiness
Without pain how could you tell what was best?
Is our pain in a way needed?
Is it somehow misleading?
Trying to show us, yet we get caught,
Too selfish to busy with my own thought.
But when you are happy think of the pain,
Oh think how good it is to be happy again.
Be not depressed. Depression, is the thief of happiness.
Like all thieves', he must be combated and defeated.
Like all thieves', depression must be fought with great
vigor and resolve.
Depression, the dark cloak of reason, that blocks most
rational thought and any chance of happiness.
Depression, an emotional straight jacket, confining the
depressed to an infusion of negativity and haplessness.
Depression, withdrawal of social interaction and an
elongated state of sadness.
Depression, a disease that like a cancer, eats away
at your very being.
Depression, a desperate battle between living...and
merely existing.
Depression, an enemy, that one must seek help
to do battle with.
Do not stand ideally by, for depression, will steal your
very soul.
The enemies of depression, are social interaction, happiness, love, understanding and seeking medication or help in some form. DO IT!
© Joe Fazio
Depression is …
Feeling alone
Depression is …
Knowing this will never change
Depression is …
Knowing your best isn’t good enough
Depression is…
Knowing nothing you do matters
Depression is …
Realizing your best days have gone
Depression is …
Looking forward to the end
Depression is…
Knowing no one really cares that you are looking forward to the end
Depression is…
Is knowing no one cares if you take your own life
Depression is my life without you,
Depression is the darkness taking over the light,
Depression is the thoughts of suiside
Depression is islolation from the outside world
Depression is where no one loves me
Depression is where i have no friends
Depression is where every looks at me and rools there eyes
Depression is.......
Depression
Hurt very much
I feel it when someone break my heart
I feel down and be by myself
You can't focus
You can't do anything
Don't you see baby
What you done to me
Depression
Can be when one of your family or relatives die
It's hard to face it
We have to deal with it and move on with our life
It going take one step at time
We can think back on good memerioes
Don't let this get to you too much
Depression
Depression
Depression depression,
Gets to us all,
We don't know why?
But it's always there,
At some point in our lives,
All we want is for our depression to go away,
The types we have are all different,
But we all wish that the depression would fly away just like angels would!
Depression takes hold
losing all control
fake a smile
act for a while
cant make you sad
please don't worry
no need to hurry
cant see me this way
I'm so scared
please go, PLEASE STAY
lost in confusion
i feel me losing
every-things gone wrong
and its all my fault
how can you act OK
I'm such a fool
to think you were true
depression takes hold
losing all control
so i take a knife
my last GOODBYE
Depression is running through my head,
These thoughts make me think of death,
A darkness which blanks my mind,
A walk through the graveyard, what can I find?
Black shadows walk in between the graves,
How many lives have not been saved?
Six feet under if not more,
How I’d like to go down and explore,
The feeling of lying in a box,
I can’t get out, is it locked?
Is it day or is it night?
Are birds singing or have bats taken to flight?
I know one day this is where I’ll go,
Am I afraid? I don’t think so!
Will I be able to explore the feeling of death?
After I’ve taken my last breath?
Or will I be a shadow in between the graves?
Will I know how many lives have not been saved?
After this life is there another one?
With a different moon and a different sun,
I won’t go to hell as I’m already there,
A place full of sadness, a place full of despair,
So there’s nothing to live for, no future no past,
So I might as well end it, end this life at last.
I got these pills for christmas
but not from santa claus
i got them from the pharmacy
with the greengrocer next door.
They're really very nice pills
i take them all the time
and even when its raining
i say the weather's fine.
They're very cost effective
about ten bucks a week
and for all the good they do for me
they're really very cheap.
I have to say i'm nervous
each time i get a scrip
i whisper what i'm buying
they often have to read my lips.
You see i suffer from depression
and i'm scared if people know
they think i'm all peculiar
and say 'sorry gotta go'.
It's quite lonely being lonely
it's lonely by myself
it's lonely being a victim
of imperfect mental health.
Don't want to live
Don't want to die
Sometimes I just need to cry
So I get out paper and pen
Once again depression sneaking in
I'm so lost within my soul
Pain from the past, trying to control
Darkness trying to steal my light
Trying to turn my day, into night
Got myself a brand new life
Need to bury the past, keep out the strife
My mind I struggle with from day to day
Please make the bad stuff, go away
They say that time heals all pain
Will my day come, or is it all in vain?
So once more I need to write
And maybe later, my day turn bright.
i can't stop wondering why
i sit still and cry
hoping everyday
i change my destructive way
preventing others in
but yet commiting my on sin
thinking everthing is immoral
because i am drowned in sorrow
no one knows the tears i shed
while lying in my bed
every night i prey
to feel better the next day
but never stopping to think
maybe this is my way
depression is when you are sucked into a cold lonely world
where you don't have anyone to love
no one by you're side
you wish you could die
cutting with tears
you want help but no one can say anything right
you're words are cold
depression leads you down a broken road
you keep walking forever down that road
you're heart is bleeding from all the pain people has caused
its a disease from people you love
they hurt you so bad and they act like they care
they don't know what its like being you
they never dealt with anything like this
depression pulls you under
drowning in you're own tears and blood
not even a single rose can fix whats been broken
you're so alone so far away from paradise
wishing that death would soon arrive
depression hurts like hell
There is a rat
I call Depression
Inside me,
Eating at my innards.
The pain goes to my throat
So I am choking on my tears
My tears of blood.
Would that I could
Write of something else,
Would that I could.
And I am so very tired
If I could only end it all
Looking at words on the page
that reflect back to me
my misery.
And where am I?
Life is all lies
Borrowed for cries
Tears are all shy
Like wings that won't fly
Like eyes that won't see
Like lips that won't speak
Like lungs that won't breathe
Like freedom that's not free
It won't just pass through
It is really stuck on you
Like glue
Like gum on a shoe
It's like an eclipse
Let the words pass through your lips
Let the tears in your eyes stick
Making the stress in your mind slip
I know it's like being raped
Like all your thoughts are being taped
Like you have to keep your fists shaped
Like the tears in you have turned to rain
Well this whole thing is not your fault
Your life is not at a stop
There is a way to crack this vault
There is a word you could call
Your life is not all flat
There's a chance you could catch
There is a way, that is a fact
Depression is what caused all that
I no longer know me
I don't want to be
I look in the mirror
and a stranger looks back at me
She too is in a bad dream
No one can hear her scream
Her eyes blindfolded and her hands tied
Her voice is muted and her mouth open wide
Strangers all around her
A stranger by her side
She stands in the middle and has nowhere to hide
She's shaking and trembling like a terrified child
She's half crazed, animal like, out of control and wild
Alright, I'm depressed!
You'd be too given my circumstances.
I'm told its (normal?)  to feel like this,
but its bloody depressing nevetheless.
everyone sufers from it
which makes us feel like sh.t
there r different kinds
some some people lose their minds
some people no how to handle it
and then don't think and end it
people that have depression
may make pain an obsession
its something u can't run away from
suicide is the way for some
people take their lives
because suicide thrives
some can't take it so they take a gun
im surprised it don't ruin everyone
depression it hurts
and the pain just exerts
Depression is when you hate everyone around
Depression is when you don't want to make a sound
Depression is when all you want to do is cry
Depression is when you feel like your dying inside
Depression is when you thoughts wonder all the time
Depression is when you can't sleep even though your tired
Depression is when you don't want to go on
Depression is when you can't stop shaking outside
Depression is when you hide who you are
Depression is when you put on a mask to hide what you feel
Depression is when you feel weak all the time
Depression is when you give in to everything around
Depression is when you don't care what happens anymore
Depression is just another day in my life
written 29/03/2010
Depression.  Not darkness of living,
but absolute absence of motivation
weighed down by stark self examination -
neither blame nor call for self forgiving.
Mistake.  Little take and far less giving.
Life lead as conditional probation -
sentence to be served, with condemnation
implicit self-destruction.  Misgiving
lies leitmotif, lost life light, life, t[h]rust thieving
til one’s ends met bear no perceived relation
to pain's sharp stings, while alter[c]ation
is seen upon reflection as outliving
hope's scope in time, as atrophy begins
to paralyse - no roses, violins...
18 June 2005 revised 12 November 2008
robi03_1279_robi03_0000 SXX_JUX
For previous version see below
DEPRESSION
Depression.  Not darkness of living,
but utter absence of motivation
combined with stark self examination, -
neither blame nor call for self forgiving.
Little take, and even less giving,
with life as conditional probation -
sentence to be served, with condemnation
implicit self-destruction.  Misgiving
leitmotif, leit, light and life, soul sieving
til one’s ends met bear no perceived relation
to pain endured by friends as alter(c)    ation
is seen upon reflection as outliving
a given time, as atrophy begins
to paralyse, - no roses, violins...
Some one is hiding her depression
She smiles and shows good impressions
Never does she show her depression
And to fake good impressions
Even though her smiles are fake
She still hides her mistakes
Depression is like a wave pulling you further in
You don't feel up to facing anyone or anything
Depression is a huge emphasis on feeling sad and low
You feel like you're in a dark place with no where else to go
Depression is like you're falling deeper into a blackhole
Your mind feels violated and as though you have no control
Depression is having little energy and lack of motivation
you feel tired and don't want to engage in conversation
Depression is used in the wrong context by naive people
They don't understand the seriousness of how it affects people
Depression is isolation, withdrawl, low self-esteem, and much more
You will never understand it unless you've been through it before
Depression sets in
When you wanna die
You're not willing to try
Depression sets in
When you cant take it
And all you wanna do is cry
You're seventeen
And all you can think
Is this life is long and hard.
There's gotta be something
There's gotta be a way
To stay happy
And never have to cry
Never have to be so upset
Where you just wanna die
But nothing is like that
Nothing can make you happy
And depression sets in
Depression is like a tidal wave pulling you further in
You don't feel upto facing anyone or anything
Depression is a huge emphasis on feeling sad and low
You feel like you're in a dark place with nowhere else to go
Depression is like you're falling deeper into a black hole
Your mind feels violated and as though you have no control
Depression is having little energy or lack of motivation
You feel tired and don't want to engage in conversation
Depression is used in the wrong context by naive people
They dont understand the seriousness of how it affects people
Depression is isolation, withdrawel, low self-esteem and more
You will never understand it unless you've been through it before
sitting at home in deep thought
medical help i had sought.
a case of depression is what they said
so i went home and went to bed.
i refused to believe that's what it could be
but denial is always first, as was told to me.
how is that possible? how can it be?
i've always been happy and carefree.
he had said:
i keep my anger bottled up inside
it is something which i learned to hide.
no two cases are ever the same
and there's no reason to feel ashamed.
depression is a state of mind
which affects your body all the time.
it will make me sluggish and tired
and wanting to hide.
i won't want to talk to anyone.
that is when depression has begun.
i may sit in a corner all by myself
wondering if i'm living in hell.
i feel as if life has turned its back on me.
but in my heart thats not what i see.
i start to ignore the way i look
and the toll that its took.
then i take a good look in the mirror
'and what do i see'
everything that was told to me.
i see my face completly withdrawn
and the appearance that i formed.
i see all my loved ones that i've hurt
including the wife that's giving birth.
i realize then that i can not do it alone.
that i must seek the help that i need
to stop this inner bleed.
i fell down to my knees
and asked the LORD to hear my pleas
to give me the strength to do my best
and for him to do the rest.
as i got up from my short prayer
i heard a voice say in my ear.
'help yourself and i will help you'
thats all you have to do.
I'm scared that I have fallen,
into that rift yet once again.
The black hole that I had feared,
the one i rotted in as I lain.
Even worse to me is the thought,
that I never did ever climb out.
And all that I have been,
is merely a voiceless shout.
From a depth too far to reach,
in a land too far below.
A place I tried to run from,
Yet is a place I always go.
Depression makes you mad
Depression makes you sad
Depressions leaves you in pain
Depression is deadly
Depression is like a drug
it gets you high then you die
No outward sign for you to see,
I try acting as normal as one can be,
Desperation is my call,
Suddenly I've had enough of it all,
The tears, the moods, the ups and downs,
What is happening with me,
Leave me alone I say, let me be,
Everything gets to me this misery,
I must divert my thought on the good things when negativity pulls me down,
I must think positive and redesign my life,
Yes, this is what I must do,
Burying my head under covers is not the way for me or you,
I am aware this won't be easy,
It all takes some time,
But before you know it things will work out just fine.
There was thunder in the hut
teeth clattered under the ground.
Handcuffed you walk in inequality
to qualify for hanging till dead.
I may not tell myself
what was happening to me.
Moving in opposite direction
the bird was able to catch the smell.
My stance was always making a stroke
in the canvas of a tormentor
abbreviated in a muscular arm
starting violences of sleep.
Corralled in doorframes, keeping
the lights off, this was the nemesis
for asking for the change. Haungered, the
human being, absorbed by the
absence of chains which were not
coming in sight.
*On the fate of Kanu Sanyal, founder of naxalite movement, who hanged himself to death on 23th March 2010.
dissolve the life from within me
you crawl inside of my mind
you want everything
you took the little i had left
you left me with nothing
you left me feeling empty
feeling used
and abused
you left me worse off then when you found me
and the worse part is
i know you will never be gone
for you are just hidden in my mind
wait for a perfect time to attack
to take all i will have worked to gain back
i hear you in the back of my mind
whenever i am stressed or angry
i feel you grow
when is it i will finally lose control
and you will rob me of it
when...
The world is falling
I can't seem to keep in reality
my life is growing dim
I can't see from behind me
My thoughts race
All I feel is pain
and of course parents say
no pain no gain
but this pain is different
it hurts my heart
it has and it hurts
inside my heart
What is this pain
that I feel inside
that is called depression
and that's what you are trying to hide
I constantly think of bad things
like sadness and lonlyness
but that isn't the word
the right word is depressed
but why am I depressed
I am as happy as I can be
but on the inside you hurt
and it's depression you see
The only way out
of this dreadful hell
is to try and heal
what is making you dwell
But I don't know
what could it be?
well it could be
my father drinking?
yes that's it
I have found the key
to me being depressed is my dad
and his drinking
so now what do I do
Hell is so bad
well you need to go
and talk to your dad
I know it seems hard
and you are scared
but don't be afraid
if he loves you then he cares
So that's what I did
and I am no longer sad
but I can tell you one thing
I am no longer in hell... and no longer sad
so now I feel better
and you should to
and when you find out why
what are you going to do?
Do what's right
it comes out for the best
and then you feel happy
and no longer a mess
Oh!  Depression!
I love you
And you love me
You are my life and my need
You are my love and passion too
You are my soul
The light through which I see this dreary world
Oh! Depression, Depression!
Together we shall die.
All at once, jostled by a thunderbolt
Lo! Behold! A ray of light
GOD said, Do not fret my child
What my child want, I give
Tears of joy and ecstasy streamed down my eyes,
My prayers were answered.
Depression has taken over me..
Gobbled up my soul..
Will I ever be happy again? ..
Will I ever be whole?
Why can't it just leave me alone?
Why can't it just go away?
I just want to be happy again...
Leave me depression, so I can feel again today...
I don't want you here anymore..
Dont want you hear to stay!
Go!
Just Go Away!
I scream but there's no sound,
I cry but there's no tears,
Is this life,
Or am i isolated with emotion.
No one is listening,
I dont think anyone cares,
Is this life,
Or hell with normal people.
I try to act normal,
But no one know's the thoughts inside my head,
My so called life,
Filled with thoughts of being better off dead.
it tortures and consumes me
I can not see a way out
I scream and shout
It dwells within me
How can I stop this insanity
This truly dark thinking
I always end up drinking
Myself away
or is this just some weird vanity?
Darkness consumes
I feel used
the dark hand looms
Depression will it ever end?
Depression is the sorrow in your heart…
Depression is the feeling of being alone…
Depression is knowing your best isn’t enough…
Depression is knowing no one cares if your dead or alive…
Depression is the hate and anger you get when life is too hard…
Depression is when you feel like the worlds on your shoulders…
Depression is the feeling that you get when you get when you know
That what ever you do no one cares and it doesn’t matter…
Depression is knowing when you tried tried and tried again but failed…
Depression is knowing that when you are dead no one will even remember your name…
Depression hits hard and harder every day…
Depression is the feeling of dying slowly every day…
By: Tou Yang
Depression in so many
It's always so sad to see
The numbers are uncanny
Just take a look at me
So many in pain unseen
As depression numbers rise
Sometimes life can be so mean
Just look into my eyes
Afraid to go home
Don't know how to deal
You're feeling so alone
This is how I feel
Do you no who I am?
I am no saint I am no lamb.
I make you live in terror.
This you can not sever.
I live in your head.
I must be fed.
I need the taste of your blood.
Filling me like a flood.
I love how it flows like a river.
Always making you quiver.
You thought you were so stroung.
But you couldnt of been any more wrong.
I am your soul.
I am keeping you whole.
I love to watch you drool.
You are nothing but a fool.
I will never go.
This you must know.
I am your history your now and I am the futer.
I am your second minute and hour.
I am an insane cannibal.
Just like a crazed animal.
I will eat you from the inside out.
This you will have no doubt.
Do you know who I am?
I am no saint I am no lamb.
Have you become wise?
That I am the devil in diguise.
My knees are so weak
Yet running
Running
For what?
Does it worth all that?
Why should I spent my years
Working
Learning
Searching for means to live
If I know
Inside me
I won't enjoy living it
Running, running...
For what I'm searching?
For cure?
I enjoy being sick!
For happiness?
It will never exist
For the reason that I'm still here?
I cannot find it out yet
What am I doing?
Why am still running
It's the time, to be selfish
To think of my own
Way
To live!
I'm still here?
Why should I care again for this life?
So many chances I gave
But it just won't get better...
Why am I still asking for help?
Why am still seeking it from this mortal world?
It won't give me the answer,
It won't give me a a damn
Why am I still trying to come back upon my feet?
For that I'm sick to seek
Why should I go on with  it
When I know that it is just a half empty pot of blood?
If it won't hurt you
It will just break upon the floor
Why should I even keep on repeating
The same everyday?
I'm sick of u!
you call ur self life? ?
You are just one big lie
This perfect solution...
The words upon my body..
I engrave, razor and pain
A perfect poem to write...
words,
are bleeding
till the last word
the last dropp of blood, falls
it will hit the floor
to draw the last line of this image
that is showing  the opposite of what u see
the choice that was hidden for many years
I'll  remove it to the surface
for others to see it, to realize
happiness is by..
Living our own death everyday,
D is for Down days
E is for Escaping when you want to cry
P is for Pressure whereever you go
R is for Romance which everyone finds
E is for Expressing to others that we need help
S is for Sweet dreams in our head
S is for Saying I love you to a partner who really cares
I is for Injuring yourself when you are really feeling low
O is for Overdose which you don't really want to do
N is for Nice sunny days with a smile
I just feel so down
I only frown
I have no smile left
Depression is a theft
I hate that I feel this way
I wish my feelings will go away
But I guess they're here to stay
I feel like I don't care
But I swear
That I can't bare
To be without feelings
And my heart isn't healing
Like it should
But I would
Do anything to take the pain away
I'd do it today
I wish I could talk about it
But my parent's would throw a fit
If they found out my reasons
It's just not the right season
To tell them how I feel
But I'll make you a deal
I'll tell you
If you believe it's true
Do you?
Good because you should
Now I could
Tell you all about it
But please don't throw a fit
It's because of my dad
He makes me so sad
And then he gets mad
At me for nothing
And I'd do anything
To make him proud of me
But he can't see
That I try too hard
I play the wrong card
Because he has no clue
That I'm sick with the depression flu
And my mom
Tries to play dumb
She says she'll love me no matter what
But she still treats me like a mut
I still have feelings
Even if my heart isn't healing
I can still feel the pain
That they're making me gain
I want you to accept me
But you can't see
That I am what I am
And you side with them
And you don't accept me
I just want to be me
And I want them to love me
I wanna make them proud of me!
*(A poem that tells so many secrets of mine, A poem where my parents wished they weren't mine, A poem that proves I'm not fine.) *
D EATH
E MPTINESS
P AIN
R EMORSE
E RROR
S ORROW
S EVERE
I NSANITY
O RDEAL
N EGLECT
When you try to make it better
With the truths you hold so close
And the lies made up apart of you
To the ones you hate the most
Something screams inside I'll never change
When your thoughts are painted black
Someone chose for me to be this way...
And there's only me to thank
And when your heart falls in the way you think
There's really no turning back
And the ones you think you thought you loved
Could never judge the way you act
You've played this part for way to long
Now the center stage is clear
Grab my wrist and hold it tight
Tell me nothing's left to fear...
I thought words could explain the way I feel
But now I know that's just a lie
Grab my wrist and hold it tight
I'm coming home tonight
When I go just leave the door unlocked
I'll make it worth my while
When the high gets low
And my conviction stands
Just look at me and smile...
My heart askew and my brain out of place
I narrowly escape insanity on a daily basis
fuzzy clouds of sorrow and regret
that I lay my head on each night
unable to concentrate on anything but my pulse
I will myself to numbness, nothingness
in a walking coma, I hear voices but no words
I see faces but don’t recognize my reflection.
I want to scream but haven’t the energy,
so instead I bury myself under my blankets of despair
and pray that the world will go away.
12-23-07
by shannon flanders
'Just get over it, ' they say
I wish I could find a way
Living with it day by day
Memories won't go away
Medication helps to sway
Many feelings of dismay
But they do fail to decay
The loss that one does survey
Let the Lord of All
Show me The Way
© 2011
I am loosed, I am free
I have no responsibility
No longer to be found
The shackles and chains that had me bound
A new life waits ahead
It is the unknown what I most dread
Though I'm free as a dove
I'd surrender if bound by your love
Let not go is my plea
Please bring again my captivity
Without you I am lost
Hold onto me no matter the cost
© 2011
Liquid Depression
A state of agitated depression
Now facing the liquid depression
Like a closed session
Needing medical attention
Making my agitated confession
Liquid depression my obsession
Liquid depression my only material possession
Years of oppression before the recession
See the expression of my depression
Liquid depression leaving a facial impression
At it's own discretion
Like a rapper at a rap session
And a singer in a jam session
Or a poet at the blog talk radio session
You can't forget the internal impression
The repossession of my liquid depression
It's a new life I'm now facing without question
You have an empty feeling that comes from within
You long to share your feelings but no one will listen
You reach out for open arms, but nobody is there
Your tears fall to the ground, but nobody cares
You pick up the phone, but have no one to call
You feel overwhelmed; your mind is a crawl
You lay in your bed in the light of the moon
Just so you don't see those who aren't there for you
The flames spark inside you and heat up your fear
Your thoughts are suicidal, your days are so drear
Emotional fires burn up in your head
Fires of love and pain and regret
Consumed in your own darkness, you slowly fade away
Your once blue and sunny sky has turned to clouds of gray
©Rebekah Johnson,12   May 2008
Tears on my pillow,
cuts on my wrist,
use a razor,
if bleeding resists...
Resist temptation,
to seek help and advice,
let pain be your friend,
let pain be your life.
Don't eat food at all,
become fragile and weak,
self mutilation,
forget how to speak...
Listen to the voices,
the ones in your head,
they say they hate you and want you dead!
Finally through the darkness,
you see hope,
a closet, a chair,
a short length of rope...
After you fall your painful life ends,
Manic depression your only true friend! !
when the brain feels out of whack
a blown fuse
a hacker's hack
every thought under attack
mental abuse
a sacker's sack
all interests seems to lack
colors might as well be black
I'm worried about you
You want to be like me
Why? Don't you want to live?
It's very sacred up here
It controls your fear
It controls your pain
You'll look for help right away
Depression puts up a shield
You'll become what I am
If this is what you want
Join me and leave yourself behind
On second thought
It's crowded, stay where you are
Do not commit this sin
Think about Mount Depression
Now fall back to nowhere
I never want to see your face
Find yourself first
Everything else will fall into place.
Our lives avoided tragedy
Simply by going on and on,
Without end and with little apparent meaning.
Oh, there were storms and small catastrophes.
Simply by going on and on
We managed. No need for the heroic.
Oh, there were storms and small catastrophes.
I don't remember all the particulars.
We managed. No need for the heroic.
There were the usual celebrations, the usual sorrows.
I don't remember all the particulars.
Across the fence, the neighbors were our chorus.
There were the usual celebrations, the usual sorrows
Thank god no one said anything in verse.
The neighbors were our only chorus,
And if we suffered we kept quiet about it.
At no time did anyone say anything in verse.
It was the ordinary pities and fears consumed us,
And if we suffered we kept quiet about it.
No audience would ever know our story.
It was the ordinary pities and fears consumed us.
We gathered on porches; the moon rose; we were poor.
What audience would ever know our story?
Beyond our windows shone the actual world.
We gathered on porches; the moon rose; we were poor.
And time went by, drawn by slow horses.
Somewhere beyond our windows shone the actual world.
The Great Depression had entered our souls like fog.
And time went by, drawn by slow horses.
We did not ourselves know what the end was.
The Great Depression had entered our souls like fog.
We had our flaws, perhaps a few private virtues.
But we did not ourselves know what the end was.
People like us simply go on.
We had our flaws, perhaps a few private virtues,
But it is by blind chance only that we escape tragedy.
And there is no plot in that; it is devoid of poetry.
Anonymous submission.
I fear my little child.
I fear that she will not feed and grow strong and healthy,
I fear that she will stop breathing when I am out of the room or selfishly asleep,
I fear that she will become ill because of something I have done or did not do,
I fear that she will be in pain and I will not know why.
I fear that her father will reject her,
I fear that her father will reject me,
I fear that her father will compete for her love and that she will love him more,
I fear that her father will be distant and that she will not love him enough.
I fear that others will think that I am incompetent,
I fear that others will assume that I am capable,
I fear that others will force upon me unhelpful or unwanted advice,
I fear that others will believe I can cope.
I fear the loneliness of endless days without contact,
I fear the emptiness of endless nights without love,
I fear the weakness of endless days without proper meals,
I fear the weariness of endless nights without sleep.
I fear inexperience.
I fear uncertainty.
I fear guilt.
I fear despair.
I fear my little child.
I have an alco friend who tried strangling himself
He also attempted to poison himself
After consuming a bottle of Beam
He swallowed painkillers and nearly died.
I know a bulimic girl who wants to kill herself
She thinks of jumping into a pool
With a heavy brick tied to her neck
After she eats - she always throws up.
I know a girl who cuts herself, so her legs hurt
In the blood she finds relief
She doesn't know the other way
To help her deal with emotional pain
He thinks he is too ugly and will never change
So he's depressed
She thinks she is too fat
So she's depressed
She thinks that her parents don't love her
So she's depressed
Their solutions are worse than their problems...
Which makes me depressed.
Shackled to depression
Intertwined, amongst my veins
Self worth, self love
Are lost, within the pain
Anguish and shattered dreams
Lie embedded in my heart
A glimpse of personal torture
Revealed, within the art
A medicated mind
Does it offer resolution?
Candy coated prescriptions
Swallowed, without solution
Blind to the rising sun
Of opportunity, to thrive
Another breath inhaled
Without purpose, without drive
Shackled to depression
Consumed by failure, and disgrace
A crying soul unseen
I walk invisible, without face
Copyright 2007  W. Bureau
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
She broke my heart
And it won't mend
I say please Lord God
Let it end
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
Was it all
Just a lie
I say please Lord God
Let it die
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
Why she left
I don't know
I say please Lord God
Let it go
Take me home
Take me home
Take me home Lord God
Take me home
< br>
© 2011
depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression depression song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song song home home home home home home home home home home home God God God God God God God God God
There’s a black dog scratching at my door - demanding he come in
Although I try to ignore him - the black dog always wins.
Once inside he haunts my soul and dictates my thoughts and deeds
and like a fool I heed him and I pander to his greed.
Those who’ve never met him would doubt his presence here
They scoff his very mention and scold my tears and fears.
Little do they realise that my world is falling down
and they just dismiss my feelings and ignore that I’m around
Late at night the black dog lurks and hinders me from rest
depression overwhelms me and my heart sinks in my chest
the tears I cry are done alone - and pray - never in a crowd
for a man to cry its just not done - such weakness - not allowed
Get a grip the wise ones cry - grow up and act your age
Only you can fix it – just turn another page!
If was that simple then it would be done and dusted
but the black dog says pay no heed - no ones to be trusted.
So on it goes each dreary day - this world of pain and sorrow,
I just wish I could go to sleep and not awake tomorrow
but the black dogs bark will bring me back to endure another day
where my sun has lost its wondrous shine and my sky is dank and grey
I have a sinking feeling that the black dog has a plan
that will test the very fibre of this backward sliding man
he will of course suggest that I just end this stupid life
and he will then simply wander off and destroy another’s life
until then I must pay him heed and succumb to his demands
and resign myself to tears and fears and make no worthwhile plans
and when my time on earth is done and my wasted life’s gone cold
you’ll have no need to feed my dog - he has feasted on my soul.
The dark cloud.
It sits around your head
or inside it, more like.
Around your mind,
or inside it.
Around your heart,
or inside it.
Does it reach your knees?
Seems like it, some days.
Your toenails perhaps?
If you let it, it has a voice.
Please don’t listen to it;
that’s really dangerous;
it makes general statements
as if it knows you better than you know yourself
like, ‘your…’ - no, it claims to  BE you -
so, it’s ‘MY life is pointless..’
Have you noticed, it’s
never in front of you,
always somewhere behind you,
whispering over your shoulder
so on a bad day, it’s there in the bed with you
the moment you awake; not of course
in kissing range, that might be fun – but behind you,
murmuring in a bedly voice
‘WE are really down this morning aren’t WE? ’
or it catches up with you in the bathroom
or a bit later, like when you review the day’s appointments
or start out for work.
The First Aid for depression is of course well known
(to everyone else, at some other time…) :
put some music on, sing in the shower,
sit in the brightest light,
toast your hidden beautiful self
in orange juice; take some vigorous exercise,
seek out good company in
someone or something; be
good company yourself, for someone else..
they all work, for a time; but don’t you wish
for the classic fairy tale encounter –
there you are walking through the dark wood
of the dark cloud, and suddenly
the monster springs out in front of you
in all its horror; for the first time
you meet it face to face; it’s
terrifying, but a curious relief:
now you know it’s not you after all,
but something else; you look it in the eye,
you don’t retreat, but march towards it,
say Boo (for linguistic reasons, rather abstruse)
and as you get nearer and nearer to it, the monster
gets smaller and smaller, until…
and then, marching back
triumphant with a spring in your step,
you may feel like
nailing it with a poem, to say
wow I’ve survived;
have a great day!
If you say you're upset because you're tired....
At least you're not depressed.
If you say you're upset because you're depressed...
At least you're not in physical pain.
If you're upset because you're in physical pain...
At least you have your mind.
If you're upset because you're tired, depressed, in physical pain, and in danger of losing your mind...
At least you're alive.
And, if you're upset because you're dying...
At least when you're dead you won't have to worry about all of the above.
The depression of the 1930's was the time of my childhood days,
There were a lot of worries and hardships in many ways.
Whatever time people could spare, they would help each other out,
Bad times also came when there was a draught.
The depression of the 1930's our parents would help make quilts of all kinds,
They would work long hours, day and night, it was alot on their minds.
Fathers would work on the W.P.A. just to make ends meet,
Breaking stones was very hard work, some of them fell to their feet.
The depression of the 1930's there were problems about work, severe
winters and war,
People never know from day to day what may be in store,
There were children of all ages, sick with an illness,
Some of them passed away with the long nights of stillness.
The depression of the 1930's made it bad for all ages,
Work was scare, there was pay of low wages.
During the depression, we all learned how to survive,
A lot of people shared the hardships by showing love and being alive.
The depression of the 1930's will be in my heart for the rest of my life,
I, Margaret L. Hockenberry, now Margaret l. Rodkey lived in those hardships
of struggle and strife
My parents were loving and caring in every way,
They taught me to respect people and show them we care.
Depression takes over my body.
making me dizzy, sick, and sad.
as i walk the halls with a blank face
i'm dieing inside with so many thoughts it takes over my body.
i walk the halls with tears running down my cheek.
with black merky makeup running down my blank expressionless face.
i woundered if anyone noticed
whenever my teacher sounds my name, my heart starts to ache, surprised someone actually knows i exist.
i wounder if anyone notices the depression taking over.
i smile blankly but crying endlessly inside.
no one knows 'me'.
all those lies catch up with me.
all those memories haunt me.
there's just so much that time cannot erase.
i wounder if it'll ever change.
i pray but then what happens?
Depression is my disease that doesn't go away.
i've tried many times to get rid of it but never did go away.
so i listen to music to get the pain away....tempararily.
here i sit, and here i cry
my life has gone down the black hole of deep depression
my life has gone down to hell
so now i lie me, down to die
i have no reason to keep on suffering
my life is not worth living
i shall walk into the shadows and leave the sunshine deserted like me
you shall not find me amoung the others
for i shall be in the dark ally's of confused beings and far away
i shall join my fellow destroyed soul's
like the man whose feelings were swallowed by the dark black moon
this depression has caught me
like a cat with a bird in its claws of dispair
sometimes i feel like a disease is haunting me inside
i feel like a squashed soul-; shattered
happiness and joy gone forever
my life revolves around pain and sorrow
that's all i have to live by
my eyes are being deceived
the sun has disapeared
or did it never exist?
darkness summonds me out to do its will
never freeing these souls and i
soon i shall come out and seek revenge
on those who sent me down into depression
death so powerful
once you have it
you can't give it back
lost forever in an unknown universe
with the man on the moon
This feeling of derpression
i tell you it's just this
a feeling is that which never was
a thought one day you'll miss
this feeling of depression
i tell you i'm alright
now leave me be and go away
lets put off this fight
this feeling of depression
i tell you i'm ok
now close your eyes and rest your head
lets wake to a brand new day
this feeling of depression
i tell you i control
with every ounce and every bit
held deep within my soul
this feeling of depression
will go away someday
untill then i'll bide my time
perhaps to god i'll pray
this feeling of depression
i tried to tell you, why?
are you never here to hear me ever
not even when i die
this is a horrible attempt to remember the origonal i wrote a long time ago terribly sorry to anyone who reads this
Depression is a fact of life for me.
As much a part of life as food and air,
It hovers like a dreaded entity.
It scatters joys like useless stale debris,
And sews the ashes of my dreams in gloom.
Depression is a fact of life for me.
It poises like a shadowing banshee
With somber wings just waiting to enshroud.
It hovers like a dreaded entity,
And I can almost always guarantee
Secreted in my spectral holidays
Depression is a fact of life for me.
My life becomes a frequent abductee
Purloined by mirthless bird of prey
It hovers like a dreaded entity..
A vulture pouncing when my back is turned,
But hidden, and not easily discerned.
Depression is a fact of life for me
It hovers like a dreaded entity.
Depression is a fight
Or a flight
Depression is a theif
That should be locked up
Depression steals...
Happiness
Motivation
Sleep
Your appetite
It steals your view on life
It steals how you view yourself
Sometimes it even steals your life
.......It's a depression so deep it finds a way into the Soul,
traveling through every pore of your Heart.
A depression so enlarged, it encompasses every bit
of your Reality,
leaving that Reality, a mere cloudy memory.
A depression so dense, it compresses every will
you once had,
bowing you down to accept that will, as it's own.
A depression so devious it takes you piece by piece,
consuming, each piece,
day by day.
A depression so truly disheartening,
it Leaves You,
with no other emotions.
A depression so dangerous,
it slaughters,
Everything.
Inside.
Of You.
Twilight declares its arrival
The waves crash against the rocks
The traffic moves slowly
The crowds buzz by
We can't look eye to eye.
The mood was light
Now silence hangs low
Thoughts create a tornado
From him to her and her to him
Suddenly melancholy spurts
And words follow.
The winds of depression
From the fathoms of the ocean
Swayed-
Our mood
Our talks
Our thoughts
Our love
For a while
And no more.
Lights glowed bright
Waves calmed
Traffic smoothed
Crowds did not bother
Luckily,
Oceans have a shore
Winds changes course
The winds died down
Depression sucked out
Eyes found the strength
To look at another of their kind
Only you were around
With a heart full of love.
(28 April 2008)
Yolinda often was depressed
she then stayed home, inside her nest.
To help her illness she used gin
it quickly did restore her grin
but alcohol's welcome effect
was not expected to correct
her melancholy disposition
thus it required repetition.
She managed thus for many years
depression and some other fears.
And on her deathbed she required
the liquid she so much admired.
It helped, this time she drank a quart
before she left for God's resort.
Periwinkle blues, vibrant violets blend together creating an atmosphere
only beholding to the most beautiful creatures ever seen on the earths
ball-room of forever living.  A defiance of immortality, living with the masters
of the dark.
Veils of black dust, streamers of grey silk torment while flowing over the
dark, still waters.  Charcoal eyes seen beneath the quite mirrors of the
ocean sink deep.  Climb in if you dare, enter the world of desperate
measures and despair.
Wait! ! !  Suddenly, an enormous hand appears through the  sky and sends
shades of yellows with silver glints shining through.  Ahhh the sound of
Music began to play, while the angles appear, they dance and dance through
the warm  soothing air.
The ocean begins to ripple and the musical notes fall quietly through the
mirrored water taking their places beneath the still waters.  Angels hover
over the window-like bed and the tears of glory fall through that oceanic
bed.  No more heartbreak or fear.   The master of miracles is here.
The invitation to visit the dark and dismal places of the deep, shall not be
accepted after-all.  For this creature is covered by the hand of God and
Shall live in the land of peace and love, and forever be blessed  by the master
Of good who rules and shines from above.
Jan.12,2008
Being alone as always,
This pain is consuming me,
No one to care for me,
In this empty world alone.
This darkness is all I feel,
All that I can see,
It makes me want to go,
To die and say goodbye,
To everyone that ever cared.
I feel so alone,
Late up at night holding myself,
Well I cry myself to sleep,
Know that no one cares.
A day of despair,
I despise everyday that I am here,
Living this life of mine,
Hurting endlessly,
By people I once thought cared,
Always betrayed,
Feeling a stab in the back,
Friends I once thought cared about me,
But what now.
Turn on me as usual,
I can't trust anyone but myself,
Yes I am alone,
Having to endure this pain,
All I do is suffer anymore.
AS evening shaped I found me on a moor
Which sight could scarce sustain:
The black lean land, of featureless contour,
Was like a tract in pain.
"This scene, like my own life," I said, "is one
Where many glooms abide;
Toned by its fortune to a deadly dun--
Lightless on every side.
I glanced aloft and halted, pleasure-caught
To see the contrast there:
The ray-lit clouds gleamed glory; and I thought,
"There's solace everywhere!"
Then bitter self-reproaches as I stood
I dealt me silently
As one perverse--misrepresenting Good
In graceless mutiny.
Against the horizon's dim-descernèd wheel
A form rose, strange of mould:
That he was hideous, hopeless, I could feel
Rather than could behold.
"'Tis a dead spot, where even the light lies spent
To darkness!" croaked the Thing.
"Not if you look aloft!" said I, intent
On my new reasoning.
"Yea--but await awhile!" he cried. "Ho-ho!--
Look now aloft and see!"
I looked. There, too, sat night: Heaven's radiant show
Had gone. Then chuckled he.
I shall call on you not out of despair
I will be there when it has gone beyond repair
It won’t look in niceites and fair
It is definitely blown over  by air
I shall be on your side for all the times
It has been  witnessed  in recent times
You too stood for values and principles
I was always there as staunch disciples
The clouds were gathering storms
The relation was strained and not remaining warm
I could see great difficulty and  danger
It should not have been spoiled with anger
The shadow looming large over our relation
There was going to be big mark in question
How could I thwart off the situation?
It  still needed  some solace or evaluation
I was not expecting to do a wonder
But still I had many questions to ponder
I had lot more to do the good to the friendship
It was to remain in tact as companionship
I could emotionally hide my feeling
It was inwardly pinching and killing
I had earnest try to keep it in tact
This was to be the  centre core in fact
I would love to be on his side
The speculation was very wide
I had nothing to hold back or hide
There might have been some deviation slidr
I shall strive for nice spot
It may not be considered than big blot
We may blow some times cold or hot
The wordy dual is unnecssarily fought
I may still go for fair name
People may have no chance to blame
It will be nice and pefect bond
I always stood for it and was very much fond
The memory of you emerges from the night around me.
The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one!
Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.
Oh pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked.
In you the wars and the flights accumulated.
From you the wings of the song birds rose.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver,
turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank!
In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded.
Lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire,
sadness stunned you, in you everything sank!
I made the wall of shadow draw back,
beyond desire and act, I walked on.
Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost,
I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you.
Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.
and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.
There was the black solitude of the islands,
and there, woman of love, your arms took me in.
There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.
There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle.
Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me
in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!
How terrible and brief my desire was to you!
How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid.
Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs,
still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.
Oh the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs,
oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.
Oh the mad coupling of hope and force
in which we merged and despaired.
And the tenderness, light as water and as flour.
And the word scarcely begun on the lips.
This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing,
and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!
Oh pit of debris, everything fell into you,
what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned!
From billow to billow you still called and sang.
Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel.
You still flowered in songs, you still brike the currents.
Oh pit of debris, open and bitter well.
Pale blind diver, luckless slinger,
lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour
which the night fastens to all the timetables.
The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore.
Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.
Oh farther than everything. Oh farther than everything.
It is the hour of departure. Oh abandoned one!
The night rain sing the song
To benumb my soul all along.
Grief breaks heart's fence
Over the hills of silence
The song of despair!
Floats everywhere in air
The song of despair
Floats everywhere;
Till the depth of heart's creek
To cascade tears through the cheek.
One's heart becomes stone-dead
When their most loved left its stead.
Eyes then lost fore'er its shine,
Nothing will follow there but a shadow;
The only crony I've to say as mine
To walk with me in this despair-meadow.
Once in a medow of love I walked
With my lover and we stalked
Holding her hand in my wrist,
Holding my hand around her waist.
We woven the wings of dreams
And built castles on streams
Life was an ever opened book
Where the moments of love we took,
To draw the most beautiful pictures on its pages
As our hearts were one as a land with no rages
Everytime the hands of destiny write its word
The golden pages of life was engulfed by rust
That made the glitter of love blurred,
Eyes scatter the seeds of despair in dust
No one knows what's destiny,
Until they feel what's despair!
we say we will
spend some time
for the season
take a walk in
the autumn groove
enjoy the trees
the leaves and
the soft rustle
at our feet
that gently bids
goodbye to another
season of gold and amber
we never let it
dig our heart
to catch a leaf or two
they fall, resigned
to the fact that
we will never
have time
trail the last wind
and listlessly
to the ground
like jilted lovers
soon the snow will
bury them and our wish
to explore the season
Spring will see us
caught up with another year
like fish in a net with the water
just inches away
I love the hours of misty morn
When clouds descend and kiss with dew
Lilac, verbena, rose bud and thorn.
In perfumed morn, I think of you.
I love the hours of warm sunlight.
Your beauty is everything I see
And I feel you almost in my sight;
But your spectrum is a mystery.
I love the hour of magic light.
All colors are pleasing to the eye
While I think of you in seraph flight
Aureole, wings, in chromatic sky.
I love the hours of blissful night
And I feel you close in candlelight.
When I fall asleep you hold me tight.
With your love and hope, I greet the light.
I am a man of Poland, man in a land invaded.
I am but content, that my house has not been raided.
I walk up, to my silent home, why does my wife ignore me.
I see my wife and son dead on the floor before me.
JEW, JEW, on the wall in blood like a damned profanity
I look in fear at the madness and insanity.
Two months I have walked the earth and no relief I have yet found.
One day, I saw soldier push a Rabbi to the ground.
He sees the symbol on my neck and puts the rifle to my head.
I now know he wants to make me like the poor Rabbi, Dead.
I wrestle him and put his own bullet through his Heart.
He writhes in pain and hit the dirt, like a twisted work of art.
I know and fear that in hell, I shall soon sit.
But I am more surprised that I was good at it.
So that day, I sold my soul to the dark.
And longer can I walk amongst, the free and lark.
The kraut soldier walks down the street, I crouch down in the Dairy.
He gets a bullet through his head, first to fall to the Mercenary.
Despair, if you must –
But how's it going to pull you through?
Despair, when you trust
Naught since then there's naught to do.
Despair, should you thrust
Aside your pride, your self-esteem.
And so despair, if it's dust,
The only substance that you deem.
Despair, when a gust
Of slightly breeze can break your stance.
And do despair, when lust
Is your interpretation of romance.
But don't despair, if you can care
About the plight of any other being.
And you can focus on the help,
Support, and altruistic further actions
For the seeing.  Be believing,
As despair will start receding
All around – simply since you found
A way to steer you clear
From this: the very cause of your despair!
So give to others; give them all a helping lift:
Despair, you'll find will disappear –
And that has got to be a well-deserved
And saintly gift!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
Rain of despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
despair despair despair despair despair despair despair
Sharon tells me she's thrilled
when she sees her skins peeled
From the scrapes of Tommy's fist
bruised from docking with her lip
But she says there always kindred
Infiltrated through her affection
When she gets him cornered down,
Like a housefly on her heel
Counter clockwise in his groin
Which thrills his pupils to counter twitch
On the chessboard colour floor
Where he moans with satisfaction
to be her incandescent whor-
And Even tells me that its heaven
When it's a quarter pass eleven
And little Sara's got him toped,
From an altitude that makes him drop
With her firm technicians grip
That has him writhing into fits
Raptures abound this tender bull
Bandaging him with a tumble fall
And stencils blue onto his neck
It's the comforts of her molesting
His inhibited recluse affections
The best attention always granted
when empathies contracted herpes
Malice quills the confines
of the insipidness of  yuppies
Directing our destruction
In Mutually Assured Romantic Violence
So Bon appetite
We're coinsures of despair
Eloping debacles whenever we dare
To pour gasoline on our match lit embraces
Hiding in desserts to prowl long spaces
Dancing synchronous in a voodoo oasis
Never leaving the affliction of what we call each other
Because we are reflections of the same broken mirror
Entwined in web of malevolent luminescence
From which we cannot so soon depart
It was too soon to dance,
now it's too late to leave
Because Charon drives our four heeled steed
Towards our suicide ménage a trios
Me and her with, a friendly loaded gun
To fill the time with our immortal fun
We're an attractive duet, in Western stand off
Combating the silence, as two warheads in deadlock
So we celebrate the decent
in this tableaux baroque chaos
Trapped in the Kennel where the beggars languish
The starving enchantment of long distant anguish
Drinking the cognac as the connoisseur of despair
So we'll tie my arms in copper knots,
that scratch the veins with clever dots
Please make me crawl until I'm numb,
Stick the rattle in my palm
Than tie the chain around my neck
Make me bleed until I'm strong
Enthralled to burns of your lighter pen
Without your spit Ill fly long gone
Into the bayou of the rusted steam
To dream of teeth in my Capillaries
By the laurel tree that cries to leave
One night stands of archetype tragedies
Bliss is the sunshine at the end of a war
When we learn to walk the trenches of insuperable hell
And realise it's us who we will always drag down
Because we've opened these doors which will never close
Were refugees from some disease
Mad, Corrupt, and spoiled sl-+$
Incarcerated to each other's needs
And always insisting on sipping that substance
Which invalidates reason of proportioned justice
Because we think were suitably happy
when the bed sheets pillar with a companions body
But there is only one black flower who satisfies my hobby
Drinking the wine
as Connoisseurs of Despair
An empty feeling
like confusion would compare
cries, my world called fear
So sick of it all….
The trust of it all vanished in the wind…
The truth may it be was all a pack of lies…
It was only the path to achieve your ways…
So angry you’ll never know…
So hurt, I can never say…
The words I want to say just can’t come out…
The tears I shed are no longer for you…
You took it to the limit, knowing how gullible I would be.
The fool you played me for, you knew me so well.
You manipulated you smile just at the right moment…
You shed your tears when you thought I would walk away.
So easy it was for you to tell me you cared…
So blind I was to see you were never really there…
The times of the moment, the belief in you…
Led me down your path, to see me be an ass…
I can’t say it was your entire fault…
So much I have myself to blame…
I think you must have sat up in your room…
Alone in the dark
figuring how you could pull my strings…
Listen to me sit here and complain…
I should have opened my eyes to what was around…
I should have been more careful to control my emotions…
Just by chance I learned of what you were planning of me…
So expendable I was to become,
it was all in good time.
A use for me, as you drained the blood from my veins…
Too much it is all for me, a breach of my mind and soul…
Both have been so tainted and so diseased…
I tried and tried to stay here with you…
As I learned it was only a façade created by you…
I looked into the mirror; only to see my dead eyes…
My face so pale and white, you sucked the life out of me…
You sold yourself to me, only it wasn’t what I really saw.
The game you played ever so perfect, such poise and balance…
I saw it all too late, the damage being done…
Leaving me so hurt and so cold, sitting in my dark despair….
How can we affirm our own existence?
Cogito ergo sum, Descartes said,
I think therefore I am.
But wait!
Who is doing the thinking?
The body?
Am I my body?
Well, Descartes explained, we are talking about
Two incompatible substances:
The unextended and indivisible mind
In contrast with the extended and divisible matter,
Res cogitans versus res extensa.
Yes, but am I my body?
How is the contact created
Between the mental
And the physical worlds?
Princess Elizabeth of the Palatinate asked.
Well, somewhere at the base of the brain,
In the pineal gland, replied the philosopher.
Oh, I have a problem with that,
The princess remarked.
For, if the brain exists in space,
How can the non-spatial mind dwell in it?
And Descartes threw up his hands
In despair.
As the waves vanish
At the shores
The new ones rise
and stretch their wings
Am keen to count them
For a while
Though in vain
As the companion abandons
The new one is quick to embrace
Its heavenly bliss
To witness the sight
A magical touch
To forget the rest
Let,
The bygone footprints be bygone
Crumbled Abodes be orphaned
It's an infinite search
On an orbit of canvas
So much to unlearn
So much to unburden
Just in case,
Got queries to pose
Please reserve them for
The desert of despair
Desire and despair
Are two sides
Of the same coin
We dream of stars
And moon
And never reach
Anywhere
Every day we deposit
Our collection
Of despair
In the accounts
Of our mind
But never get
Any interest for it
Yet we try hard to
Increase our deposits
And never try
To admit desire
Is the cause of all despairs
Desire and sufferings - The Buddhist theory.  By watching people Buddha found out that the causes of suffering are craving and desire, and ignorance. The power of these things to cause all suffering is what Buddhists call ''The Second Noble Truth''.
Losers in a row about to die
corks that pop from the other side.
People have come from all over
the country just to watch them cry.
Haughty looks aristocrats
pulled from homes that are now forfeit.
Children that can't be saved.
Better thee than me a father says.
Walk me home I hear one mother.
Dancing in the streets unpaved.
Distant future from the past in the dawn I hide.
Rhyme or reason treasonous tounge
from the land scape and you can never see.
Unrelated events that came together here.
No warning came to they.
Corks that pop as guns go off and oddly
from the corner of my eye.
I see the rest of them come from the forest
their on fire.
When despair comes knocking
There’s no one home
Gone out shopping
And not alone
Despair comes knocking
Every damn week
I try not to care
But he still leaves me weak
But despair comes knocking
Every single day
I keep shooing him off
And sending him away
Despair comes knocking
But what does he want?
Is he here to stay?
Or just here to taunt?
(Itajaí - 27 February,2009)
DESPAIR IN OLD AGE
Despair in old age
Dead friends
Friends sick and dying
The choice between the treatment
That draws the suffering out
And the sooner and more painful death
The boredom
The sense of one’s own uselessness
The futile striving to not be a hindrance to others
The vain effort not to look like a shipwreck
The sick smell of oneself
The loss of power in so many ways
The small naps in public places
The sense of one’s own uselessness
The understanding one has done what one could
And not done enough
And not done the best
The regret
The hatred of having others doing simple things for you
You can no longer do for yourself
The weakness
The aching
The pain
The boredom
The slowness of mind
The loss of interest
The feeling of oneself as a burden a disappointment
To others
The despair
The hopelessness
The wishing were all over
And the understanding that to finish it
Is to be a coward and leave a horrible legacy
The having too much time and remembering when one never had enough
The feeling of one’s own uselessness
The letting loved ones down
The loneliness
The boredom
The sadness
The hatred and contempt for oneself
And what one has against one’s every wish, become.
The long drawn-out never ending hopelessness of it all.
after three days, despair has become an unwanted company,
i begin to joke,
i do not choke, i smoke.
its clothes do not fit for my new occasion
its doomed color is irrelevant
my true friends shall detest it
and shall surely vomit it
like a bacteria infected
spaghetti
i like to wear the robe of a happy emerald life,
shiny black shoes that exudes dignity and propriety
there must be extra  pockets to keep some allowances for
the coming excitements, the unexpected joys of living,
i tell despair  to leave me, and it is just as simple at that
and it did.
despair is a bad joke,
in essence just a joke,
it does not please us,
so why should we let it  stay?
DESPAIR IS DARKNESS
Despair is darkness-
Despair is death inside and death in the world and death in one’s own sad soul-
Despair is no way out -
Despair is the place where one is forever stuck -
Despair is the realization that one has done what one could – and one is not going anywhere else-
Despair is the admission of failure-
Despair is no sign of help anywhere around-
Despair is so much lost-
Despair is one‘s life is over-
Despair is regret-
Despair is the sense that one will never have the time to have another chance -
Despair is ‘it’s finished’-
Despair is no way out-
Despair is going down and more down and more dark and more afraid all the time -
Despair is the scream which hurts and does not stop the hurting -
Despair is the understanding that even Death will not save one -
Despair is that the pain will never end-not even with death.
Despair is no way out again and again and again- without end.
I see u everyday in my dream,
'lost' in the shallowy depths of imagination.
i try my best not too scream,
as my heart had known nothin but elation.
i see u taking shade under a tree,
am not sure whether the drops comin out are your tears.
and i wish the one you were waiting for was me,
so that i can come and throw away your fears.
i wish i could come and stand by your side,
and make sure that you will never cry.
not taking care whether i am swept by any tide,
and makin sure that am always there to standing by.
am staring at the moon in the sky so blue,
am feeling that cold mist blowing on my face.
i wish the one next to me was you
right now and right here at this place
i want us to jump and soar the sky,
hand in hand watching the stars go by.
then i want to gift u that big fat moon,
not caring even if its a dumb stupid noon.
my love for u is like a chest made of gold,
i see your eyes ah! they're so bold.
when i think of you my heart's so cold.
these feelings i think i cant fold
i sometimes wish that i could feel your hand,
and before i realise they slip off like sand.
my dreams revolve around a person no matter what i do,
oh my love! that person is you.
this feeling i have never throws me down,
i have lost a heart that was never found.
long back i knew you as a good friend,
i knew you since i dont know when.
i sometimes find words hard to find,
thats probably because you are always on my mind
i think of you each and everyday,
i dont know why we are so far away.
thats probably why i hate god so much,
now you're someone i cant even touch.
the only thing i request you is to wait
i'll come and lift you before its too late
so what i say is when i dream,
i almost see you everywhere.
but when i wake up i often scream,
as i see you nowhere there.
(dedicated to all the people there who have their loved ones far away)
DESPAIR OF THE EARLY MORNING
Despair of the early morning
Despair of the darkness
Despair of the Despair
Despair of Old Age
Despair of the road closed
Despair of nothing to do
Despair of nowhere to go
Despair of endless errands
Despair of money running out
Despair of the message of Despair
One transmits to those one loves.
Despair that has to be resisted
Despair that the light of the day
Will help me overcome
Despair I will pray my way out of
Despair I will in the course of the day
Sometime overcome.
Not the great Despair
The unending Despair
The final Despair.
The small Despair of who I am and where I am now.
The Despair that still can be resisted,
By the writing of a few awkward lines
Early in the morning.
The shadows of sunshine cross my desk,
work like a prison surrounds me.
Whom do I turn to? To unlock the discord,
of the depressive uncertainty that surround me.
Millions line the dole queues,
as jobs fall daily to accounting cuts.
Life becomes a struggle for daily bread;
bills grow like mountains,
assaulting the conscious brain.
Fists hammer on front doors for monies owing,
disturbances cause neighbours
to look through corners of curtains,
gossip is rife on family’s shame.
Millions spent of foreign aid,
but what about our own impoverished land?
Who is going to give our own a helping hand?
The sad look pleading, in hungry despair.
Who hears these voices call,
only the unfortunate such as they.
Alone! Alone! No beacon, far or near!
No chart, no compass, and no anchor stay!
Like melting fog the mirage melts away
In all-surrounding darkness, void and clear.
Drifting, I spread vain hands, and vainly peer
And vainly call for pilot, -- weep and pray;
Beyond these limits not the faintest ray
Shows distant coast whereto the lost may steer.
O what is life, if we must hold it thus
As wind-blown sparks hold momentary fire?
What are these gifts without the larger boon?
O what is art, or wealth, or fame to us
Who scarce have time to know what we desire?
O what is love, if we must part so soon?
.    Despair
When I walked daily in despair,
How fickled spirits fly
When hope became a daily pain -
Despair a nightly sty.
Until a bridge loomed up ahead -
I dared to walk across
And leave my heart there on the bank
Contented with the loss.
Despair, pain, sadness, heartache
I’m dying inside
Can anyone hear me?
I’m aching to be loved and heard,
Yet everyone seems so oblivious to it
They treat love as if it were a scrawny little string
Why can’t I just get a single thread from that string?
Why can’t I get anything other than deaf ears to hear me cry out in pain?
Where’s my one-and-only?
When will I be someone’s one-and-only?
Time is ticking, yet its holding still for me,
Imprisoning me in a jail of sadness and no love
I dream of love every night, why can’t these dreams come true?
Can anyone hear me?
I’m dying inside, so emotionally dead
So dead inside
I’m just a shell of what used to be a happy and delightful girl
Can anyone hear me?
I said I’m dying inside!
Who is he?
A railroad track toward hell?
Breaking like a stick of furniture?
The hope that suddenly overflows the cesspool?
The love that goes down the drain like spit?
The love that said forever, forever
and then runs you over like a truck?
Are you a prayer that floats into a radio advertisement?
Despair,
I don't like you very well.
You don't suit my clothes or my cigarettes.
Why do you locate here
as large as a tank,
aiming at one half of a lifetime?
Couldn't you just go float into a tree
instead of locating here at my roots,
forcing me out of the life I've led
when it's been my belly so long?
All right!
I'll take you along on the trip
where for so many years
my arms have been speechless
No longer believe in hopes
I breathe the air of numbness
When my cold heart melts
Aches shall crush it in pieces.
Despair outloud
Despair and fear
Its all despair when noone hears
My soul is screaching
It mouns to you
Its like a whisper, its like a flute
The midnight fence, that holds me back
It aches my heart with metal bars
Despair is all i know
Despair its lonely yet its my home
Despair is simple, it holds 7 words
Despair
come join me
We wont die alone
I look around me, and I'm in despair.
I glance at each and every corner
I feel so alone.
My wants and dreams for my children
Just one, be not in despair
Yet I see another one of my children
falling thoughts of my deadly despair,
getting nowhere, going nowhere.
This same vicious cycle.
Oh! Lord I must change this hurt that I have given
my children.
Lord! Help, help them to break this inheritance
to not fall upon their children.
Help me! for I'm in despair for happiness and
peace for my children.
They have tried to make a change,
from this grieving and despair, a peace of mind,
a will to make my days upon this grieving world
better.
If I could just make that one difference, I would
live much happier and peaceful.
SMILE on me, mouth of red--so much too red,
Shine on me, eyes which darkened lashes shade,
Turn, turn my way, oh glorious golden head,
My soul is lost, then let the price be paid!
Amid rich flowers your rosy lamplight gleams,
Amid rich hangings pass your scented hours,
And woods and fields are green but in my dreams,
And only in my dreams grow meadow-flowers.
I have forgotten everything but you--
The apple orchard where the whitethroat sings,
The quiet fields, the moonlight, and the dew,
The virgin's bower that in wet hedgerow clings.
I have forgotten how the cool grass waves
Where clean winds blow, and where good women pray
For happy, honest men, safe in their graves;
And--oh, my God! I would I were as they!
Distraught
That's what I am
Why does the world
have to be like this?
Why can't things ever
work out for me?
Crying
That's what I'm doing
Crying out tears that drag out
my sadness, my pain, my confusion
Stop
That's what I want to do
Cease feeling the wrongs of the world
All weighing down on me
Until I feel I am crushed
How?
How can I forget the sadness?
How can I stop the pain?
How can I heal these scars
left on my heart?
Never
Never will I be able to rid my life
of all it's troubles
Never can I heal my heart
The wounds may heal
But the scars will remain
Escape
That's what I must do
But where?
Where is there a place safe from all the pain,
all the sadness, the confusion
I must go
I will never survive another day like this
Now
I must be rid of this
It's eating away at my insides
It's slowly causing me to fade
I'm growing weaker, and weaker
The sadness, the pain, the confusion
Despair
That's what this is
I am distraught and in despair
and I can never be rid of it
It is destroying me
Slowly, but surely
I am fading
hope dies hard, it is said
always I agreed
knowing this truth for myself
but
comes a point in the
scheme of things when
the strangling is complete
and so
hope expires because the
subject herself is dead
whether she breathes or
not is beside the point
(7.5.06 - Live on in hope, Little Spirit)
O'er the midnight moorlands crying,
Thro' the cypress forests sighing,
In the night-wind madly flying,
Hellish forms with streaming hair;
In the barren branches creaking,
By the stagnant swamp-pools speaking,
Past the shore-cliffs ever shrieking,
Damn'd demons of despair.
Once, I think I half remember,
Ere the grey skies of November
Quench'd my youth's aspiring ember,
Liv'd there such a thing as bliss;
Skies that now are dark were beaming,
Bold and azure, splendid seeming
Till I learn'd it all was dreaming -
Deadly drowsiness of Dis.
But the stream of Time, swift flowing,
Brings the torment of half-knowing -
Dimly rushing, blindly going
Past the never-trodden lea;
And the voyager, repining,
Sees the wicked death-fires shining,
Hears the wicked petrel's whining
As he helpless drifts to sea.
Evil wings in ether beating;
Vultures at the spirit eating;
Things unseen forever fleeting
Black against the leering sky.
Ghastly shades of bygone gladness,
Clawing fiends of future sadness,
Mingle in a cloud of madness
Ever on the soul to lie.
Thus the living, lone and sobbing,
In the throes of anguish throbbing,
With the loathsome Furies robbing
Night and noon of peace and rest.
But beyond the groans and grating
Of abhorrent Life, is waiting
Sweet Oblivion, culminating
All the years of fruitless quest.
We catch a glimpse of it, gaunt and gray,
When the golden sunbeams are all abroad;
We sober a moment, then softly say:
The world still lies in the hand of God.
We watch it stealthily creeping o'er
The threshold leading to somebody's soul;
A shadow, we cry, it cannot be more
When faith is one's portion and Heaven one's goal.
A ghost that comes stealing its way along,
Affrighting the weak with its gruesome air,
But who that is young and glad and strong
Fears for a moment to meet Despair?
To this heart of ours we have thought so bold
All uninvited it comes one day-
Lo! faith grows wan, and love grows cold,
And the heaven of our dreams lies far away.
Move away - from me, the form
Is parabolic in isolation, I’ll vet
The consequence and despair, despair
Will serve my hunger –
- Later -
And I’ll wait, wait for something,
Something greater -
Wait and I’ll wait
And I will have no pride -
The clouds will cast their twisted shadows
Over silver stallions that we ride.
The move away from - the publicans, the executors;
The prophets of destruction - shall we
Raise our crystal glasses, shall we
Utter bitter curses - curses
On the pain.
I’ll wipe away the tears - I’ll brush aside her hair;
It rains in these – this paradise -
A torrent of despair.
From where I stand I have no faith,
I look around and see only hate.
Stuck in pain I cannot wake,
From this nightmare that is my fate.
All around me darkness lies,
From which I see not beyond my eyes.
I met this one who shown a light,
Only to have them turn into my plight.
Such hurt, such pain inside of me,
Ever enduring it always seems.
I'm told 'Have faith, I will be saved, '
I think to myself, you're all insane.
For all and all I am alone,
Left in this darkness that I must roam.
From these pits of my despair,
I have learned to never care.
Alone in the dark, the blood of blackberries
dripping down his shins, the morning star
looking back in the mirror through which he gazes,
moon-eyed and at odds with himself, he presses
his palms, but the nightmare doesn’t stop.
The sky turns and nothing this moment matters.
Not even the cold thorns of the blind wind
blowing hellward, not even the poisoned rainbow
that lights his prayers can give meaning to doubt.
The sullen belladonna that pricks his mind
will not comfort him in this final hour
and no guardian angel will come to touch his brow.
The darkness of the night bewildering
Falls on a world of chaos, and alone
I lie, and listen for the single string
Of Hope, with strainèd ears, but hear no moan
Nor any sound, save only the dull beat
Of my starved heart, that totters on the brink
Of abjectness, reason dethroned, her seat
Usurped by folly. Dear God! let me sink
Forever out of sight in nothingness,
As crazed stars fall from heaven. Woe is me!
Is death too merciful for my distress?
Or does my pain mean nothing unto Thee?
Life's stony road I've suffered passing well,
Now its lone sign-post points to my soul's hell.
I search the world for answers
to the questions in my mind.
Although, it seems those answers
are the ones I'll never find.
In dark despair I call out.
I scream for help and light.
The source of deep depression
is something I must fight.
I try to ''keep my chin up''
and ''focus on the ball'',
but everytime I take a step
I also take a fall.
For those of us who fight them,
the demons in our head,
we have to force ourselves to sleep
each time we go to bed.
Without my faith in Jesus
and my love of family,
I don't know where I would end up
but I know I wouldn't be free.
Thy wings swoop darkening round my soul, Despair!
And on my brain thy shadow seems to brood
And hem me round with stifling solitude,
With chasms of vacuous bloom which are thy lair.
No light of human joy, no song or prayer,
Breaks ever on this chaos, all imbrued
With heart's-blood trickling from the multitude
Of sweet hopes slain, or agonising there.
Lo, wilt thou yield thyself to grief, and roll
Vanquished from thy high seat, imperial brain,
And abdicating turbulent life's control,
Be dragged a captive bound in sorrow's chain?
Nay! though my heart is breaking with its pain,
No pain on earth has power to crush my soul.
Despise poetry, and you'll be named to office.
But to love poetry is like clinging to a mountain:
frozen, holding tight, facing death,
days of sorrow followed by sorrow.
The bourgeoisie are jealous of those
who love poetry: they flash teeth like knives.
All the old sages are long since dead,
but bureaucrats still gnaw their bones.
Now I'm frail, dying like a frond.
All my life I sought a noble calm,
a calm I could never achieve.
And the noisy rabble mocked me.
LET me close the eyes of my soul
That I may not see
What stands between thee and me.
Let me shut the ears of my heart
That I may not hear
A voice that drowns yours, my dear.
Let me cut the cords of my life,
Of my desolate being,
Since cursed is my hearing and seeing.
And canst thou mock mine agony, thus calm
In cloudless radiance, Queen of silver night?
Can you, ye flow'rets, spread your perfumed balm
Mid pearly gems of dew that shine so bright?
And you wild winds, thus can you sleep so still
Whilst throbs the tempest of my breast so high?
Can the fierce night-fiends rest on yonder hill,
And, in the eternal mansions of the sky,
Can the directors of the storm in powerless silence lie?
Hark! I hear music on the zephyr’s wing,
Louder it floats along the unruffled sky;
Some fairy sure has touched the viewless string--
Now faint in distant air the murmurs die.
Awhile it stills the tide of agony.
Now--now it loftier swells--again stern woe
Arises with the awakening melody.
Again fierce torments, such as demons know,
In bitterer, feller tide, on this torn bosom flow.
Arise ye sightless spirits of the storm,
Ye unseen minstrels of the aereal song,
Pour the fierce tide around this lonely form,
And roll the tempest's wildest swell along.
Dart the red lightning, wing the forked flash,
Pour from thy cloud-formed hills the thunder’s roar;
Arouse the whirlwind--and let ocean dash
In fiercest tumult on the rocking shore,--
Destroy this life or let earth's fabric be no more.
Yes! every tie that links me here is dead;
Mysterious Fate, thy mandate I obey,
Since hope and peace, and joy, for aye are fled,
I come, terrific power, I come away.
Then o'er this ruined soul let spirits of Hell,
In triumph, laughing wildly, mock its pain;
And though with direst pangs mine heart-strings swell,
I’ll echo back their deadly yells again,
Cursing the power that ne’er made aught in vain.
Go ahead and laugh in my despair.
When im sitting in the corner with a sad glare.
Nothing matters to my opinions.
The world is drowning me in their evil words and their dirty looks.
No one gets me and neither do they care.
Go ahead and laugh in my despair.
A baby snow Leopard
searching for its mother
at the snow covered forest
Finding its mother dead
I have experienc'd
The worst, the World can wreak on me--the worst
That can make Life indifferent, yet disturb
With whisper'd Discontents the dying prayer--
I have beheld the whole of all, wherein
My Heart had any interest in this Life,
To be disrent and torn from off my Hopes
That nothing now is left. Why then live on ?
That Hostage, which the world had in it's keeping
Given by me as a Pledge that I would live--
That Hope of Her, say rather, that pure Faith
In her fix'd Love, which held me to keep truce
With the Tyranny of Life--is gone ah ! whither ?
What boots it to reply ? 'tis gone ! and now
Well may I break this Pact, this League of Blood
That ties me to myself--and break I shall !
I'm tired now,
I've had enough,
Of this weird Life,
So full of stuff,
You toil and sweat,
You take all bets,
And at the End,
It's all regrets,
The empty hands,
The loveless nights,
The chilling fog,
'Turn off the Lights'
Today there will be no killing or blood spilling well none coming from you
I'll kill your friends, parents, and siblings to
I will frame you so your locked up for life
I'll pay the judge so your locked up all alone
You'll be driven right into despair
You shall rot in prison
You'll wither down there
Now you want to vanish into thin air
I'm making you feel as I do
So lonely and bare
Why doesn't anyone care
As I myself is living in despair.
Despair's cruel fingertips crawl over the heart of my church.
I witness it's demise as my world crumbles.
When all hope is locked up in enemy dungeons, I pray.
With a hand of faith that proudly stood by my side,
I pray, for the weak, to make them stronger,
For the scared, to make them fearsome
And for all that remains pure...
Such hope, as is the sick despair of good,
Such fear, as is the certainty of ill,
Such doubt, as is pale Expectation’s food
Turned while she tastes to poison, when the will
Is powerless, and the spirit...
From the depth of despair
You can only whimper and cry
All the pain you feel drowns your very soul
You become encumbered by all that has been
A nightmare, a hell hole…there's nothing no one can do
You have to live through all this…just to stay alive
The outcome is horrific as you feel rendered by the past
You feel crushed, forsaken, yet your heart still beats so fast
Life is something special never let it go
Make every moment count, from this moment on
Frozen tears fall to the ground,
covering up this weeping sound.
Of lamenting throughout the land.
Seeping through like grains of sand.
It penertrates our very hearts,
paper thin hit with poison darts.
The darkness grows and closes in,
crying out its resounding win.
Fallen hopes and fallen dreams,
deathly cries and chilling screams.
Not a single soul is spared the pain,
We only wait for the Winter's wane.
Dying here....inch by inch.....
A sense of guilt has struck me somewhere
Whereas I have done no wrong to feel so.....
Hdidng in these shadows of regret and scare
Feels like I do not exist....
A lost friendship is hard to bare.....
But replaced with a kind of hope and sense that- she will tell 'Why do you regret? It is I who has done wrong not you.'
But replaced with a kind of hope and sense that she will realise the deep truth beneath all these lies.......
At the present, I am dying here....inch by inch......
- Kalyani Prakash
Haiku-Despair
- - - - - - - - - -
Despair despair despair
Why despair, act and see
How it disappears
Hope and despair
Overlooking each other's cries
Cruise along the path of goal
While happiness is the twin sibling of
despair, it is despair that is
the stronger of the two.
In life. happiness are but fleeting moments.
Despair lurks forever in the shadows
of our mind and our hearts...until the
final darkness.
© Joe Fazio
Oh, heavy, heavy my despair,
Because, because of One so fair.
My misery knows no allay,
Although my heart has come away.
Although my heart, although my soul,
Have fled the fatal One's control.
My misery knows no allay,
Although my heart has come away.
My heart, the too, too feeling one,
Says to my soul, 'Can it be done,
'Can it be done, too feeling heart,
That we from her shall live apart?'
My soul says to my heart, 'Know I
What this strange pitfall should imply,
'That we, though far from her, are near,
Yea, present, though in exile here?'
Said God, 'You sisters, ere ye go
Down among men, my work to do,
I will on each a badge bestow:
Hope I love best, and gold for her,
Yet a silver glory for Despair,
For she is my angel too.'
Then like a queen, Despair
Put on the stars to wear.
But Hope took ears of corn, and round
Her temples in a wreath them bound.--
Which think ye lookt the more fair?
Lose not faith in your hour of despair.
Since the beginning of man, the
darkness has always been followed
by the light.
© Joe Fazio
Lose not faith in your hour of despair.
Since the beginning of man, the
darkness has always been followed
by the light.
© Joe Fazio
In grayish doubt and black despair,
I drafted hymns to the earth and the air,
pretending to joy, although I lacked it.
The age had made lament redundant.
So here's the question -- who can answer it --
Was he a brave man or a hypocrite?
He has lost him completely.     And now he is seeking
on the lips of     every new lover
the lips of his beloved;     in the embrace
of every new lover     he seeks to be deluded
that he is the same lad,     that it it to him he is yielding.
He has lost him copmletely,     as if he had never been at all.
For he wanted -- so he said --     he wanted to be saved
from the stigmatized,     the sick sensual delight;
from the stigmatized,     sensual delight of shame.
There was still time --     as he said -- to be saved.
He has lost him completely,     as if he had never been at all.
In his imagination,     in his delusions,
on the lips of others     it is his lips he is seeking;
he is longing to feel again     the love he has known.
What is the world coming to?
Though carrying weapons is taboo
Children are happy totting the gun,
Whether to settle scores or just for fun.
When did innocence get lost and things changed?
It some how seems shocking and strange.
Too much T V, films is the reason
Reason elders for this violence and aggression.
Isn’t there lack of communication?
This has had deeper ramifications.
The young yearn for someone to share
Their confusion, but no one has time to spare.
If you are not there when your child needs you,
You will be the last to know what he brews
When he turns to his peers
To share his angst and fears.
A child is born out of a moment of ecstasy,
It is sad then you become too busy
To teach your child right from wrong,
And make him morally strong
Did you consider the likelihood
Of sacrifices you’ll have to make for parenthood?
And teach him to stand his ground
And not be bullied by any hound.
It is time to figure out
How to bring a turnabout.
In order to sort out this mess
Everyone has to try to impress
That none is above the law.
We have to overcome our flaws,
So our kids do not go astray.
Good sense prevails, I hope and pray.
Its already late
Don’t leave their future to chance and fate.
i always see to it
that i understand what a family is
when we went to a trip
we make the pact
inside the plane that moment when
we step upon the plastic floors of the tarmac
i have already seen the hint
we understand i repeat we always understand
when we were there at the saigon shopping complex
we too understand
the family segregates as one block
shields itself from our interference
we understand that
and so we too have to create our own path
go somewhere else
to the market to the park to the palace of the president
we must learn to enjoy things by ourselves
we are not really a family
but splinters of dreams
one must realize
to each his own no dependence
one makes a story
fabricates the rest of the characters
develops the plot
complicate matters and then
arrive at the resolution of the big conflict
finally i decide
a poem is better this way
intrepid, limpid, crisscross,
wanting to open but must only show the closed door
to reveal but only to arrive at the consensus
that it is better concealed
mouths silent, lips sealed
hands that dance in the sky enclosing the fingers
with the sun
When things have reached the point of no return;
When life's nadir is reached and you can't climb;
When future looks uncertain gloomy, dark;
When bridge to safety is not tread-worthy;
When things have gone beyond the salvage stage;
When odds are pitted heavily against;
When all attempts for success were futile,
When life looks dreary, meaningless to eke;
When truth and facts can't help us anyway;
When stage of verdict frightens and threatens;
When things have gone too far to broker peace;
When dialog was a wasted time and sums;
Then hope still glimmers like a fading star;
Only recourse is pray, plead to the Lord;
For He can do miracles if faith stays,
As nothing's impossible to our God.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 18-12-2014
There was an old man whose despair
Induced him to purchase a hare:
Whereon one fine day,
He rode wholly away,
Which partly assuaged his despair.
i still remember being in depth of despair
when i had lost da loved once and those who care
when di mind shutter givin nothin but suffer
nd when evry breath is a gasp for air thinking life is just unfair
i got to hold tied to da ropes of light
wer ill find hope and gain sight
from what i didnt see and try to fight
regainin all dat i had lost
and making up 4 all faults
so i had to hold tight to the ropes of light changin sorrow to delight
givin my self anotherday and looking for a brighter day
ma god its hard to say many are livin it 2 day
No ones knows just how I feel,
Or what pain I hold inside.
Know one knows just how bad,
I wish I could hide.
This person walking towards me,
Must think they know it all,
I said hello but all I got
Was a laugh because I’m tall.
This man behind the counter
He hasn’t stopped to think,
That he doesn’t even know me,
Yet he laughs at how I drink.
This driver with the temper,
Must be really sure,
That he knows my reason,
Of how I got this poor.
The girls with fancy clothes on,
They just laugh and grin.
But do they ever look deeper,
At the person I am within?
The workers at the work site
They joke and joke away,
But if they only understood
Or hear what I had to say.
Maybe they’d speak different,
Maybe they’d feel shame,
Maybe they would realize,
That I too, can feel pain.
Maybe if the world knew me,
Or even seemed to care,
I would not be forced to be this way,
Living in despair.
My Despair comes and goes
It is not the ultimate despair,
The despair of those who have forever lost hope
The despair of those who have lost what they never will regain
The despair of those for whom there is no way out
No way to begin again
No hope in any way forever
My Despair comes and goes
It is a small Despair compared to many others
When I am in it of course
I believe it like theirs Hopeless forever hopeless
But then a new day begins,
Or a friendly voice says a friendly word
Or something good and positive happens
Or the weather changes
Or some hurt goes away
Some sign comes
And slowly slowly
I am not there anymore.
My Despair comes and goes
It is not the worst Despair
Not yet-
Yesterday I was in Despair
Today I am almost already not
I pray my writing this
Will  help some despairing reader feel
They too will hope again.
477
No Man can compass a Despair—
As round a Goalless Road
No faster than a Mile at once
The Traveller proceed—
Unconscious of the Width—
Unconscious that the Sun
Be setting on His progress—
So accurate the One
At estimating Pain—
Whose own—has just begun—
His ignorance—the Angel
That pilot Him along—
FROM THE NOVEL OF EMMELINE.
THOU spectre of terrific mien!
Lord of the hopeless heart and hollow eye,
In whose fierce train each form is seen
That drives sick Reason to insanity!
I woo thee with unusual prayer,
'Grim visaged, comfortless Despair:'
Approach; in me a willing victim find,
Who seeks thine iron sway--and calls thee kind!
Ah! hide for ever from my sight
The faithless flatterer Hope--whose pencil, gay,
Portrays some vision of delight,
Then bids the fairy tablet fade away;
While in dire contrast, to mine eyes,
Thy phantoms, yet more hideous, rise,
And Memory draws from Pleasure's wither'd flower,
Corrosives for the heart--of fatal power!
I bid the traitor Love adieu!
Who to this fond believing bosom came,
A guest insidious and untrue,
With Pity's soothing voice--in Friendship's name;
The wounds he gave, nor Time shall cure,
Nor Reason teach me to endure.
And to that breast mild Patience pleads in vain,
Which feels the curse--of meriting its pain.
Yet not to me, tremendous Power!
Thy worst of spirit-wounding pangs impart,
With which, in dark conviction's hour,
Thou strik'st the guilty unrepentant heart;
But of illusion long the sport,
That dreary, tranquil gloom I court,
Where my past errors I may still deplore,
And dream of long-lost happiness no more!
To thee I give this tortured breast,
Where Hope arises but to foster pain;
Ah! lull its agonies to rest!
Ah! let me never be deceived again!
But callous, in thy deep repose,
Behold, in long array, the woes
Of the dread future, calm and undismay'd,
Till I may claim the hope--that shall not fade!
TERRIFIC FIEND! thou Monster fell,
Condemn'd in haunts profane to dwell,
Why quit thy solitary Home,
O'er wide Creation's paths to roam?
Pale Tyrant of the timid Heart,
Whose visionary spells can bind
The strongest passions of the mind,
Freezing Life's current with thy baneful Art.
Nature recoils when thou art near,
For round thy form all plagues are seen;
Thine is the frantic tone, the sullen mien,
The glance of petrifying fear,
The haggard Brow, the low'ring Eye,
The hollow Cheek, the smother'd Sigh,
When thy usurping fangs assail,
The sacred Bonds of Friendship fail.
Meek-bosom'd Pity sues in vain;
Imperious Sorrow spurns relief,
Feeds on the luxury of Grief,
Drinks the hot Tear, and hugs the galling Chain.
AH! plunge no more thy ruthless dart,
In the dark centre of the guilty Heart;
The POW'R SUPREME, with pitying eye,
Looks on the erring Child of Misery;
MERCY arrests the wing of Time;
To expiate the wretch's crime;
Insulted HEAV'N consign'd thy brand
To the first Murd'rer's crimson hand.
Swift o'er the earth the Monster flew,
And round th' ensanguin'd Poisons threw,
By CONSCIENCE goaded­driven by FEAR,
Till the meek Cherub HOPE subdued his fell career.
Thy Reign is past, when erst the brave
Imbib'd contagion o'er the midnight lamp,
Close pent in loathsome cells, where poisons damp
Hung round the confines of a Living Grave; *
Where no glimm'ring ray illum'd
The flinty walls, where pond'rous chains
Bound the wan Victim to the humid earth,
Where VALOUR, GENIUS, TASTE, and WORTH,
In pestilential caves entomb'd,
Sought thy cold arms, and smiling mock'd their pains.
THERE,­each procrastinated hour
The woe-worn suff'rer gasping lay,
While by his side in proud array
Stalk'd the HUGE FIEND, DESPOTIC POW'R.
There REASON clos'd her radiant eye,
And fainting HOPE retir'd to die,
Truth shrunk appall'd,
In spells of icy Apathy enthrall'd;
Till FREEDOM spurn'd the ignominious chain,
And roused from Superstition's night,
Exulting Nature claim'd her right,
And call'd dire Vengeance from her dark domain.
Now take thy solitary flight
Amid the turbid gales of night,
Where Spectres starting from the tomb,
Glide along th' impervious gloom;
Or, stretch'd upon the sea-beat shore,
Let the wild winds, as they roar,
Rock Thee on thy Bed of Stone;
Or, in gelid caverns pent,
Listen to the sullen moan
Of subterranean winds;­or glut thy sight
Where stupendous mountains rent
Hurl their vast fragments from their dizzy height.
At Thy approach the rifted Pine
Shall o'er the shatter'd Rock incline,
Whose trembling brow, with wild weeds drest,
Frowns on the tawny EAGLE's nest;
THERE enjoy the 'witching hour,
And freeze in Frenzy's dire conceit,
Or seek the Screech-owl's lone retreat,
On the bleak rampart of some nodding Tow'r.
In some forest long and drear,
Tempt the fierce BANDITTI's rage,
War with famish'd Tygers wage,
And mock the taunts of Fear.
When across the yawning deep,
The Demons of the Tempest sweep,
Or deaf'ning Thunders bursting cast
Their red bolts on the shivering mast,
While fix'd below the sea-boy stands,
As threat'ning Death his soul dismays,
He lifts his supplicating hands,
And shrieks, and groans, and weeps, and prays,
Till lost amid the floating fire
The agonizing crew expire;
THEN let thy transports rend the air,
For mad'ning Anguish feeds DESPAIR.
When o'er the couch of pale Disease
The MOTHER bends, with tearful eye,
And trembles, lest her quiv'ring sigh,
Should wake the darling of her breast,
Now, by the taper's feeble rays,
She steals a last, fond, eager gaze.
Ah, hapless Parent! gaze no more,
Thy CHERUB soars among the Blest,
Life's crimson Fount begins to freeze,
His transitory scene is o'er.
She starts­she raves­her burning brain,
Consumes, unconscious of its fires,
Dead to the Heart's convulsive Pain,
Bewilder'd Memory retires.
See! See! she grasps her flowing hair,
From her fix'd eye the big drops roll,
Her proud Affliction mocks controul,
And riots in DESPAIR,
Such are thy haunts, malignant Pow'r,
There all thy murd'rous Poisons pour;
But come not near my calm retreat,
Where Peace and holy FRIENDSHIP meet;
Where SCIENCE sheds a gentle ray,
And guiltless Mirth beguiles the day,
Where Bliss congenial to the MUSE
Shall round my Heart her sweets diffuse,
Where, from each restless Passion free,
I give my noiseless hours, BLESS'D POETRY, TO THEE.
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF DESPAIR
On the other side of despair
When the worst has gone
For this time
Life begins to smile at me slightly again-
An old friend
There is certainly
No reason to sadly wander
On these broken lonely streets
Except for the purpose,
The desperate prayer,
Of seeing her again,
My precious friend
Of the alienated boulevards.
It’s been four years
Since we’ve kissed,
I was a small boy then
Who didn’t know
Anything about love
And I know less than ever now.
Romantic heartbreak
Has always been
My only destination,
My crestfallen relationship
To the universe
Is to be a weeping star
Revolving around
A planet of despair.
Sometimes on a high tide
certain rules might not abide
returned from land again to ocean
one does not see any plausible reason
In the very first observation
arguably one sees no pattern
with the moving of time
somewhere in mind there strikes a rhyme
a flash of light
a glow of hope
to lay things straight
with a constant hope
the pattern is figured
the purpose served
still looms the uncertainty
observed pattern fails at infinity
Despair seeps in, one looses the power of will
Sinking in the past, making time to go standstill
imagining life to be some unbroken seal
however strong, time shall always heal
Shall I wasting in despair
Die because a woman's fair?
Or make pale my cheeks with care
'Cause another's rosy are?
Be she fairer than the day,
Or the flow'ry meads in May,
If she be not so to me,
What care I how fair she be?
Shall my heart be griev'd or pin'd
'Cause I see a woman kind?
Or a well-disposed nature
Joined with a lovely feature?
Be she meeker, kinder, than
Turtle dove or pelican,
If she be not so to me,
What care I how kind she be?
Shall a woman's virtues move
Me to perish for her love?
Or her well-deserving known
Make me quite forget mine own?
Be she with that goodness blest
Which may gain her name of best
If she be not such to me,
What care I, how good she be?
'Cause her fortune seems too high
Shall I play the fool and die?
Those that bear a noble mind,
Where they want of riches find,
Think what with them they would
That without them dare to woo;
And unless that mind I see,
What care I how great she be?
Great, or good, or kind, or fair,
I will ne'er the more despair;
If she love me, this believe,
I will die ere she shall grieve;
If she slight me when I woo,
I can scorn and let her go;
For if she be not for me,
What care I for whom she be?
Everyday I wrap
Old skeleton of despair
With thin skin of hope
for Sonja Broderick
'...the nameless pain from which one feels there can be no way out,
and one knows despair is absolute.'
- from The Mimic Men by V. S. Naipaul
1.
As I wait for the return of hopes and grace,
always I feel I shake with fears copulating
with each other faster than atoms in a chain reaction,
and all the nightmares of mimicry I have reaped
and stored so far in the granary of my mind
must have been planted
by the long lineage of my ancestors.
It's not that I am always up against them,
but I think I could have assured you:
I must be shopping around despair.
It seems as if it were made sure
the seedlings of despair I saw growing faster
get proper fertilizers and the rain.
I will reap a good harvest of despair soon.
2.
Life's not what it was before any more,
and could even be rejected by freshers
as something that only brings grief to the eager eyes -
no permanent release from all of my sighs.
It brings nothing but endless good-byes.
I know I won't stand up on the ground again.
3.
I wonder what the hell we always do
in living out our life like rats in the graveyard
or cockroaches in the discarded loft.
Every chance there is to fumble around despair.
Yes, I do feel despair is absolute,
aspirations never spill over into reality
as you might have seen from a glass
cold babbling wine falling onto the tablecloth.
4.
Rabbits we are in the roughest valley
where doom itself thrives,
always trying to scuttle far away,
feeling coldness rushing in our channels of blood,
just when hungry eagles swoop down on them
like the monsoon wind upon thatched cottages.
5.
Always we hear ear-blasting clatters of cars
clumsily crashing on the streets,
and terrific screams do chloroform us.
Yet, we all wake to another disaster
and find it's dark all around.
As darkness with the nightfall does
rain upon the life we make, I wonder
if such hours of dark luminosity
much longer than necessary
could measure the worth we bring
out of our conviction that's been
drab as a long-used copper coin,
a farrago of a Shakespearean clown's
nervous sanity and nonsense,
a kind of somber procrastination -
ghosts yet to be exorcized from a pristine chapel.
You know there's no ‘only other way around.'
This is simply our life in a snarl
where often dreams are deported
as if convicts of an old dynasty,
later guillotined before the party of nightmares,
where frailty and fright fraternize,
making our gaze shift from one muddy scene to another,
where downright convulsion is the whole caboodle.
Now curious news for numerous others:
in the abyss of deepest darkness
we are fighting this monstrous hybrid of despair
born not from a mother's womb;
and, of course, will wide jaws of the monster
be closing over us straight off;
later at dawn, we will soon be a lump of excrement
stinking among clusters of dewy grass.
from IN LOVE WITH A GORGON (2010)
Ask not the pallid stranger's woe,
With beating heart and throbbing breast,
Whose step is faltering, weak, and slow,
As though the body needed rest.--
Whose 'wildered eye no object meets,
Nor cares to ken a friendly glance,
With silent grief his bosom beats,--
Now fixed, as in a deathlike trance.
Who looks around with fearful eye,
And shuns all converse with man kind,
As though some one his griefs might spy,
And soothe them with a kindred mind.
A friend or foe to him the same,
He looks on each with equal eye;
The difference lies but in the name,
To none for comfort can he fly.--
'Twas deep despair, and sorrow’s trace,
To him too keenly given,
Whose memory, time could not efface--
His peace was lodged in Heaven.--
He looks on all this world bestows,
The pride and pomp of power,
As trifles best for pageant shows
Which vanish in an hour.
When torn is dear affection's tie,
Sinks the soft heart full low;
It leaves without a parting sigh,
All that these realms bestow.
JUNE, 1810.
The memory of you emerges from the night around me.
The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one!
Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.
Oh pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked.
In you the wars and the flights accumulated.
From you the wings of the song birds rose.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver,
turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank!
In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded.
Lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire,
sadness stunned you, in you everything sank!
I made the wall of shadow draw back,
beyond desire and act, I walked on.
Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost,
I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you.
Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.
and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.
There was the black solitude of the islands,
and there, woman of love, your arms took me in.
There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.
There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle.
Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me
in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!
How terrible and brief my desire was to you!
How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid.
Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs,
still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.
Oh the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs,
oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.
Oh the mad coupling of hope and force
in which we merged and despaired.
And the tenderness, light as water and as flour.
And the word scarcely begun on the lips.
This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing,
and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!
Oh pit of debris, everything fell into you,
what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned!
From billow to billow you still called and sang.
Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel.
You still flowered in songs, you still brike the currents.
Oh pit of debris, open and bitter well.
Pale blind diver, luckless slinger,
lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour
which the night fastens to all the timetables.
The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore.
Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.
Oh farther than everything. Oh farther than everything.
It is the hour of departure. Oh abandoned one!
Like the colors of your cheek in prism
The dew of my love on the colors
Before the Time rings the bell
Is this Time flowing like river
In flow but the rainbow of colors
I steal from your cheek in wonder
Call the people with loud voices
Is it that I show them my love
Nay in secrete shall I burn to ashes
I shall rise like amber in glow
Time is my rival and leaves me not
What of love and longing and from the dark
Hairs of beloved to the color of the cheek
In sensuous love know ye Time
I cherish my love in her manifestation
Glory be to the sculptor for the creation
Is nothing but His reflection
You think with wine I am drunk like Hafiz
Into those eyes I have drowned in love
Behold the scene when my love shall sing
The laments of existence and of the age cruel
Like lark thou sing with melodies of nature
What ails thy heart my love in the end
Let me finish this song eternal to begin anew
Yet another fine evening when the roses in bloom
A goblet of wine, butterflies in friends facing the sun
Setting behind the horizon welcoming the moon
Long nights of separation shall then follow
O heart dear what have thou stored
For devastation so long when shall moments
Turn into centuries but the aroma of her passion
Shall never leave you for a song of despair
3/1/2009
Two loves I have, of comfort and despair,
Which like two spirits do suggest me still:
The better angel is a man right fair,
The worser spirit a woman coloured ill.
To win me soon to hell, my female evil
Tempteth my better angel from my side,
And would corrupt my saint to be a devil,
Wooing his purity with her foul pride.
And whether that my angel be turned fiend,
Suspect I may, yet not directly tell;
But being both from me both to each friend,
I guess one angel in another's hell.
Yet this shall I ne'er know, but live in doubt,
Till my bad angel fire my good one out.
When things beyond my control do occur,
And fortune favors just the evil minds:
When my own people with me don’t concur,
My remnant patience to a halt well grinds.
The world is inimical to my deeds,
And evil seems to win Tho’ just for now;
When God has forgotten my long-felt needs,
My ignominy, I must undergo.
Though Hope may be replaced by Despair, still
The turning point of life for me is near;
Success is nigh and I’ll go for the kill;
My savior keeps me confident sans fear.
Nothing’s achieved when despair rules our hearts;
Impatience only ruins all our arts.
7-8-2002
The pain crashes to the depth of my soul
Just another feeling of sorrow
Another flinch from pain
Just like yesterday, it'll be there tomorrow
Wounds healing slowly
So slow, it seems not at all
I want it gone tonight
But still and fast I fall
Where does it go from here?
Does it end?
Will it continue?
When did it begin?
But you don't care, do you?
I don't know why I even bother
You will never be what I need
Why should you try now to be the father?
Are you done hurting me?
Are you finished yet?
You enjoy it, don't you?
You have not one regret.
You took away my pride,
My joy, and my brother.
You avoided talking of things I needed to hear
Such as my mother
I just needed you
The love of a father
But I don't want it anymore because
I was never your daughter.
I read them
read them all
the unbelievable human heart
so easily hurt
yearning, always the yearning
for breath
simply
without pain.
No willow tree to toss his hair
no paloma bianca in white to clad
this is the bench seated in despair
of creatures upon the earth widespread
of features upon the surface unsaid
he smiles at the crowds
the crowds go mad
he laughs at the clouds
in white to clad
and it's  a smile no one can bear
horrible laughter of a mutant pain
the customs at which there's nothing to declare
no belief no relief no grief
just a sky and a grin
despair is his sin
Beneath this gloomy shade,
By Nature only for my sorrows made,
I'll spend this voyce in crys,
In tears I'll waste these eyes
By Love so vainly fed;
So Lust of old the Deluge punished.
Ah wretched youth! said I,
'Ah, wretched youth!' twice did I sadly cry:
'Ah, wretched youth!' the fields and floods reply.
When thoughts of Love I entertain,
I meet no words but 'Never,' and 'In vain.'
'Never' alas that dreadful name
Which fuels the infernal flame:
'Never,' My time to come must waste;
'In vain,' torments the present and the past.
'In vain, in vain!' said I;
'In vain, in vain!' twice did I sadly cry;
'In vain, in vain!' the fields and floods reply.
No more shall fields or floods do so;
For I to shades more dark and silent go:
All this world's noise appears to me
A dull ill-acted comedy:
No comfort to my wounded sight,
In the suns busy and imperti'nent Light.
Then down I laid my head;
Down on cold earth; and for a while was dead,
And my freed soul to a strange somewhere fled.
'Ah, sottish Soul' said I,
When back to its cage again I saw it fly;
'Fool to resume her broken chain!
And row her galley here again!'
'Fool, to that body to return
Where it condemn'd and destin'd is to burn!
Once dead, how can it be,
Death should a thing so pleasant seem to thee,
That thou should'st come to live it o're again in me?'
305
The difference between Despair
And Fear—is like the One
Between the instant of a Wreck
And when the Wreck has been—
The Mind is smooth—no Motion—
Contented as the Eye
Upon the Forehead of a Bust—
That knows—it cannot see—
Sweet bard, whose tones great Milton might approve,
And Shakspeare, from high Fancy's sphere,
Turning to the sound his ear,
Bend down a look of sympathy and love;
Oh, swell the lyre again,
As if in full accord it poured an angel's strain!
But oh! what means that look aghast,
Ev'n whilst it seemed in holy trance,
On scenes of bliss above to glance!
Was it a fiend of darkness passed!
Oh, speak--
Paleness is upon his cheek--
On his brow the big drops stand,
To airy vacancy
Points the dread silence of his eye,
And the loved lyre it falls, falls from his nerveless hand!
Come, peace of mind, delightful guest!
Oh, come, and make thy downy nest
Once more on his sad heart!
Meek Faith, a drop of comfort shed;
Sweet Hope, support his aged head;
And Charity, avert the burning dart!
Fruitless the prayer--the night of deeper woes
Seems o'er the head even now to close;
In vain the path of purity he trod,
In vain, in vain,
He poured from Fancy's shell his sweetest hermit strain--
He has no hope on earth: forsake him not, O God!
the silence breaks the noise;
dark and fearful
as shadows consume the light
and the sun that shown with radiance;
bright and guiding
has been swallowed by the night
tears stream from eyes;
sad and lonely
she reaches for the gun
screams are muted for the silence;
long and hopeless
made her decide her life was done
the single bullet in hand;
cold and silver
thinking the choice she's making is right
looking for the second bullet;
hurriedly and desperate
she thinks for a second: she never thought she might...
placing the pistol at her neck;
scared and shaking
soon of her life there would be none
the gun shot breaks the silence;
loud and echoing
with this, out from behind a cloud peeks the sun.
Somehow you are missing from my memory.
The night falls slowly, coming with tranquillity.
Deserted is our once happy home as you are gone,
my whole life has turned into stone.
You swallowed all our possessions, left an open door,
and only empty spaces on the wooden floor.
In your love I once was lost,
but your betrayal came at an extremely high cost.
You wanted me only for the body’s bliss
and went to a lover and that is the way that it is.
Too many times I had to draw curtains back,
in life and coming death change the ways that you did act.
Too many times as my wife
you were part of me, were too important in my life.
Now what was once ours fades to oblivion,
as life not ending just moves on and on.
This is the time of departure
when birds go to their nests in nature,
when to ashes wood in the fireplace burn,
when you left on a journey of no return.
Much too slowly this night moves on, once happy one.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time.
In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of a blind diver,
turbulent drunkenness of love,
in you everything sank!
Lost and trapped in the valley of nothing but despair
Hands held high for help and grasping nothing but air
Alone and much abandoned no one knows you're there
All have turned their backs and none seems to care
You can choose to stay down and wallow in your sorrow
Or speak words that says there is always a tomorrow
Then you will see the sunshine on a bright new day
Rise up from the valley no matter what they say
When others try their best to keep you burdened down
Rise high above their heads with a smile and not a frown
The life that you want to live is solely up to you
So get up shake off the dust and start your life anew
Despair like a vine can creep back into your life again
Loosen its hold and see the sunshine and not the rain
If you know of someone else whose back is to the ground
Take their hands and lift them up for you was also down
Copyright 2013
Triangles of half-open doors
Reveal all the truth that is hidden:
Just condoms and cans on the floor,
Black papers with verses, forbidden -
Unfinished remakes of the song,
Deprived of the right to speak loud
Of wicked intentions gone wrong -
Erasers have muffled the shout.
The only illusion-proof mind -
A poet, the voice of despair,
Sincere, the one of this kind
Throws verses far into the air
Right there, in a dirty old flat
Among once great talents, now rotten.
They all have deserved more than that,
But even their names are forgotten.
Thou'rt my hope, Thou'rt my despair,
Thou my hope,
Thou my despair,
Thou the candle burning,
Thou the light dazzling
Emitted by,
It is my prayer to Thee,
Thou leavest me not,
Thou leavest me not,
Where to go leaving Thee,
Thou my sole hope?
'Tis not too late to build our young land right,
Cleaner than Holland, courtlier than Japan,
Devout like early Rome, with hearths like hers,
Hearths that will recreate the breed called man.
It really bothers me when someone doesn't conclude their thought,
their eyes following something I can't quite make out yet.
From my vantage point, it's still up there somewhere, over the trees-
or caught up in them- something they deemed it necessary that I should know-
But then they stop, and they close their mouths; all unknowing,
or else in denial, that they left that kite just hanging uselessly
somewhere in the still opaque skies.
Children are pointing somewhere now, as it floats overhead,
an unmanned kite, of home and duration unknown.
The sun reflects mutely off it's bare bones and tensile membranes;
in imagination, an unseated kite can go on flying forever,
but like a blind or unpiloted aircraft, even its seconds
must be numbered.
And the unknown colors and possible direction haunts me,
like a deathbed confession, that never made it out
before the tongue froze forever to the palate.
Somewhere it's burning now, with a low flash of flame,
it's small jettison of fuel only a black smudge, against the horizon-
The treasure is lost; the disclosure never came-
no one was saved.
No one was saved.
I still love you,
You abandoned me,
When I was too young,
I was taught to hate you,
I could not, though I did try,
I still love you,
Crave for your love too,
You did not even tell me,
Why you did, what you did to me,
Was I wrong in being what I was to you?
I still love you,
I was born to you,
It was your choice, to bring me in,
I had not asked for it,
But you still did, what you did to me,
I still love you,
Will you ever come back to take me,
I am growing up neglected,
I wish I survive that wait till eternity,
And you get back to me, your destiny.
horrid Fates!
i Fated fear that
beholding my Fate's
hapless Fate
is my eternal Fate.
Destiny hopefully knocks on our door at the right time
because I know I missed the train and forgotten my ticket
when it has tried to give me a chance
I have become ecstatic and full of light
ever since destiny came together
like a puzzle
I had the box and the pieces in my possession
but I guess it took a little bit of time
because I over think
I over analyze
I have this unbeatable streak
of missing destiny's knock on the door
Well finally I answered and
everything is coming together
No missing pieces no bent
or child manipulated pieces
Just a brand new box with
the plastic wrapping right next to it
with the steep price tag of 31 years
The pieces are all out
like my exposed heart
Everything is there
Everything is fastened together
Everything is great
I apologize to myself
for wasting so many years
before I found my destiny
A bumblebee had hitched a ride
by hanging on the starboard side
of Russia's pride, the Aeroflot
right near the engine where it's hot.
The captain got her in the air,
flew straight into the sun's hot glare.
And then they climbed into the sky
to heights where normal creatures die.
The bumblebee had been a shade
of gray and black, like gatorade.
But soon, when covered with fine ice
resembled modified white rice.
The frost cut into his thin skin
and quickly travelled further in.
And once the plane reached  altitude
the stowaway, still cold and nude
pledged to his God that he would be,
if saved, a better bumblebee.
But God had heard this song before
and did not trust them anymore,
regardless of their place of birth
or what their role was on this earth.
They lied, all critters and their masters
in peace and threatening disasters.
Please save me, was the standard plea
it was to be or not to be.
But after God had done his deed
they all returned to human need
who  would forget their obligation
and practice wanton fornication.
The bumblebee who had good ears
still hung there, though consumed by fears,
when engine trouble hit the Boeing
it was a question now of knowing
what happens when they all just die.
The bee then heard the pilot cry.
And soon, the bird had to descend
no power meant a bitter end.
The bumblebee let go and flew
right past (he saw the frantic crew) .
With wings designed for tempered flight
he soared, it really was a sight!
But when he reached four hundred knots
he heard, and felt the heat of shots,
He saw them now, all hunting duck
well, I'll be damned, they've gone amuck,
they might just hit me in the head
and I will surely be quite dead.
His wings were burning from the speed
the belly skin  began to bleed.
So in an act of desperation
he used some clever gravitation
and grabbed a bullet, thirty-eight.
It was in an ascending state
and hit its target in the chest,
right through the mallard's silver crest.
Inside the heart it was quite pleasant,
it smelled of duck, perhaps of pheasant.
The bumblebee revived its blood
and then they landed, with a thud.
He stood, expelled by the contraction
called ventricle ejection fraction.
And as he stretched he heard a noise
and then a hunter's frightened voice.
The plane was now a fireball
and passengers and crew, they all
just perished in a blessed minute.
'Thank  Destiny, I wasn't in it.'
As you can see, this tale is odd.
The bee, rejected by his God
had found a friend in destiny
and God had lost a bumblebee.
I.
THERE was a lady, who had early wed
One whom she saw and lov'd in her bright youth,
When life was yet untried--and when he said
He, too, lov'd her, he spoke no more than truth;
He lov'd as well as baser natures can,--
But a mean heart and soul were in that man.
II.
And they dwelt happily, if happy be
Not with harsh words to breed unnatural strife:
The cold world's Argus-watching failed to see
The flaw that dimm'd the lustre of their life;
Save that he seem'd tyrannical, tho' gay,
Restless and selfish in his love of sway.
III.
The calm of conscious power was not in him;
But rather, struggling into broader light,
The secret sense, they feel, however dim,
Whose chance position gives a sort of right
(As from the height of a prescriptive throne,)
To govern natures nobler than their own.
IV.
And as her youth waned slowly on, there fell
A nameless shadow on that lady's heart;
And those she lov'd the best (and she lov'd well),
Had of her confidence nor share, nor part;
Her thoughts lay folded from Life's lessening light,
Like the sweet flowers which close themselves at night.
V.
And men began to whisper evil things
Against the honour of her wedded mate;
That which had pass'd for youth's wild wanderings,
Showed more suspicious in his settled state;
Until at length,--he stood, at some chance game,
Discover'd,--branded with a Cheater's name.
VI.
Out, and away he slunk, with felon air;
Then, calling to him one who was his friend,
Bid him to that unblemish'd wife repair
And tell her what had chanced, and what the end;
How they must leave the country of their birth,
And hide,--in some more distant spot of earth.
VII.
It was a coward's thought: he could not bear
Himself to be narrator of his shame;
He that had trampled oft, now felt in fear
Of her who still must keep his blighted name,--
And shrank in fancy from that steadfast eye,
The window to a soul so pure and high.
VIII.
She heard it. O'er her brow there pass'd a flush
Of sunset red; and then so white a hue,
So deadly pale, it seem'd as if no blush
Through that transparent cheek should shine anew;
As if the blood had frozen in that hour,
And her check'd pulse for ever lost its power.
IX.
And twice and once did she essay to speak;
And with a gesture almost of command,
(Though in its motion it was deadly weak)
She faintly lifted up her graceful hand:--
But then her soul came back to her, strength woke,
And with a low but even voice, she spoke:
X.
'Go! say to him who dream'd of other chance,
That HERE none sit in judgment on his sin;
That to his door the world's scorn may advance,
And cloud his path, but doth not enter in.
Here dwell his Own: to share, to soothe disgrace;'--
Which having said, she cover'd up her face,
XI.
And, as he left her, sank in bitter prayer,--
If prayer that may be term'd which comes to all,
That sudden gushing of our vain despair,
When none but God can hear or heed our call;
And the wreck'd soul feels, in its helpless hour,
Where only dwells full mercy with full power.
XII.
And he came home, a crush'd and humbled wretch;
Whom when she saw, she but this comfort found,
In her kind arms that shrinking form to catch,
Which tenderly about his neck she wound,
As in the first proud days of love and trust,
E'er yet his reckless head was bow'd in dust!
XIII.
And they departed to a distant shore;
But wheresoe'er they dwelt, however lone,
Shame, like a marble statue at his door,
Flung her 'thwart shadow o'er his threshold stone;
Still darken'd all their daylight hours, and kept
Cold watch above them even while they slept.
XIV.
And there was no more love between those two!
It died not in the shock of that dark hour--
Such shocks destroy not love, whose purple hue
Fades rather, like some autumn-wither'd flower,
Which day by day along the ruin'd walk
We see--then miss it from the sapless stalk;
XV.
And, while it fadeth, oft with gentle hand
Doth memory turn to life's dark journal-book;
And, passing foul misdeeds, intently stand
On its first page of glorious hope to look;
Weeping she reads,--and, seeing all so fair,
Pleads hard for what we are, by what we were!
XVI.
So through that hour love lived; and, though in part
'Twas one of most unutterable pain,
It had its sweetness too, and told her heart
All she could do, and all she could sustain;
The holy love of woman buoy'd her up,
And God gave strength to drink the bitter cup.
XVII.
But when, as days crept on, she saw him still
Less grateful than abash'd beneath her eye,
And studying not how best to banish ill,
But what he might conceal and what deny,
Her soul revolted, and conceived a scorn,
Sinful and harsh, although of virtue born.
XVIII.
And oft she pray'd, with earnestness and pain,
That heaven would bid that proud contempt depart,
And wept to find the prayer and effort vain,
Though it was breathed in agony of heart--
Vain as the murmur of 'Thy will be done,'
Breathed by the death-bed of an only son!
XIX.
For when her children err'd (as children will)
A sickening terror smote her heart with fears,
And scarce she measured the degree of ill,
Or made indulgence for their tender years;
They were HIS children; and the chance of shame
Kept watch for those who bore that father's name.
XX.
And, thinking thus, reproof would take a tone
So strangely passionate, severe, and wild--
So deeply alter'd,--so unlike her own,--
It stung and terrified her startled child,
Whose innate sense of justice seem'd to show
Him over-chidden, being chidden so.
XXI.
And then a gush of mother's love would swell
Her grieving heart,--and she would fondly press
The young offending head she loved so well
Close to her own, with many a soft caress,
Whose reconciling sweetness all in vain
Stopp'd her boy's tears, while her's ran down like rain.
XXII.
The world (which still pronounces from the show
Of outward things) whisper'd and talk'd of this;
Erring and obstinate, its crowds ne'er know
How much in judging they may judge amiss,
Or how much agony and broken peace
May lie beneath the seeming of caprice!
XXIII.
But he, her husband (for he was not dull),
Saw through these workings of a troubled mind,
And, that her cup of sorrow might be full,
He taunted her with words and looks unkind,
Which with a patient bowing of the heart
She took--like one resolved to do her part.
XXIV.
And years stole on (for years go by like days,
Leaving but scatter'd hours to mark their course),
And brightness faded from that lady's gaze,
And her cheek hollow'd, and her step lost force,
Till it was plain to even a careless eye
That she was doom'd, before her time, to die.
XXV.
She died, as she had lived, her secret soul
Shut from the sweet communion of true friends;
Her words, though not her thoughts, she could control,
And still with calm respect his name she blends:
They all stood round her whom she call'd her Own,
And saw her die--yet was that death-bed lone!
XXVI.
But in its darkest hour her thoughts were stirr'd,
And something falter'd from her dying tongue,
Mournful and tender--half pronounced, half heard--
For which he was too base--his boys too young;
So whatso'er the warning faintly given,
It lay between her parting soul and Heaven.
XXVII.
He wept for her--ah! who would not have wept
To see that worn face in its pallid shroud,
Proving how much she suffer'd ere she slept
At peace for ever! Violent and loud
Was the outbreaking of his sudden grief,
And, like all feelings in that heart, 'twas brief.
XXVIII.
And something strange pass'd o'er his soul instead,
When thinking upon her whom he had lost,
Almost like a relief that she was dead:--
She, whose high nature scorn'd his fault the most,
And show'd it least,--had vanish'd from the earth,
And none could check his sin, or shame his mirth.
XXIX.
So he return'd to many an evil way,
Like one who strays when guiding light is gone;
And mid the profligate, miscall'd 'the gay,'
Crept to a slippery place--his tale half known--
Ill look'd on, yet endured--the useful tool
Of every bolder knave, or richer fool.
XXX.
And his two sons in careless beauty grew,
Like wild-flowers in his path: he mark'd them not,
Nor reck'd he what they needed, learnt, or knew,
Or what might be on earth their future lot;
But they died young--which is a thought of rest!
Unscorn'd, untempted, undefiled--so best.
The voices of hope......
Screaming for lives..
Were not fulfilled
The truth is
We can't handle the truth
Take me to the place...
Where the weather
Is fine all around
We could live
Till the world
Is no longer exists...
and remember
The arts of love
Implies to flirtation
Your longing....
Is descriptive
Well painted
onto the canvas of psychopath
A journey without destiny...
Is a long lost destination
Only the determined
Would understand
and nodded
A Thought
Leads to,
A Desire.
A Desire,
Leads to,
An Action.
An Action,
Leads to,
A Habit.
A Habit,
Leads to,
A Character.
A Character,
Leads to,
A Destiny.
A bad thought,
Nip it,
At its bud.
A good thought,
Nurture it,
As I said.
Your thought of a drink,
Kindles a desire,
For a peg.
Your desire for a peg,
Takes you,
To the bar.
Your visit to the bar,
Leads you,
Drink a peg.
Your first peg in the bar,
Makes you,
A habitual visitor.
Your character,
As a regular visitor,
Names you, a drunkard.
As a drunkard you're,
The day isn't far,
For your rest in the grave.
A thought of the Lord,
Creates a desire,
To see Jesus.
A desire to see Jesus,
Leads you,
To the nearest Church.
Your visit to the Church,
Makes you,
A habitual visitor.
Your habitual visit to the Church,
Converts you,
A devotee of the Lord.
You're, as a servant of the Lord,
Destined to His abode,
On the day of judgment.
Now, you know the recipe,
Of your own destiny,
To keep you ever happy.
There is always a choice to make
When two paths merge and life takes a break
For a split second, all things are one
As destiny and chaos collide once more
When two paths merge and life takes a break
No one will warn you that it is already to late
To change the path you have taken
As destiny and chaos collide once more
For a split second, all things are one
In that moment, you realize God will not be outdone
This place and time will no longer exist
As destiny and chaos collide once more
No one will warn you it is already too late
The first man and woman sealed your fate
Nothing can stop what was meant to be
As destiny and chaos collide once more
To change the path you have taken
The original spirit must reawaken
To be forsaken was never part of the master plan
As destiny and chaos collide once more
In that moment, you realize God will not be outdone
By now you realize that life is not a dry run
No second chances are guaranteed
As destiny and chaos collide once more
This place and time will no longer exist
And mankind is summarily dismissed
For failing to exercise discipline and reproof
As destiny and chaos collide once more
The first man and woman sealed your fate
The choice is no longer yours to make
What you do now is fruit of the poisonous tree
As destiny and chaos collide once more
Nothing can stop what was meant to be
Two paths have merged into life’s potpourri
The world is filled with to much hate
As destiny and chaos collide once more
The original spirit must reawaken
Or those waiting for the rapture will not be taken
It will all be for not in the end
As destiny and chaos collide once more
To be forsaken was never part of the master plan
The time has come to take a stand
What you do now repeats the past of long ago
As destiny and chaos collide once more
By now you realize that life is not a dry run
What has been will always return
As it was in ancient times, so it will be
As destiny and chaos collide once more
No second chances are guaranteed
No end in sight, no need to proceed
Since all you know will be forgotten
As destiny and chaos collide once more
And mankind is summarily dismissed
Because he labors for vanity
His soul adrift in a sea of confusion
As destiny and chaos collide once more
My impuissance always haunted me like a nightmare,
I always stood alone even in a busy fair
My thoughts ghosted me like a vulture looking for its prey,
Even my spirit was bemused when indulged with life in a woozy fray
Life always seemed to be a tyranny,
With happiness peeping in my life occasionally, as an irony
Winds of lust and anger swayed my thoughts to everywhere,
I neglected my friends and kin and even forgot my prayer
The path of desperate desires where pleasing my eyes,
I buried the essence of my soul for a life full of spice
Then came the irruption of thoughts out from the convoluted mind,
Those were nothing but the poisons hived in handsome rind
I left my kingdom of desires, as I lost my assailable world of fantasy,
Colours of joy withered and life turned out to be a bitter legacy
Sooner my spirit languished and then grief followed felicity,
And life’s lancinating experiences even bewildered me without pity
In this whole turmoil my love was lost and my whole world went in a toss,
Valley of distress was now my abode, I sought the shrouded and obscured cause
Soon I agnised, my thoughts were no more my allies,
That sole thought made my stout frame paralyse
My spirit was now longing to live a life of solitude,
A life of hermit, so I could stand from my vicious thoughts at an altitude
Meditation and contemplation became the wings of my spirit,
My thoughts sublimated and mind stood there as an obedient valet
I am now the master and he is my dutiful servant,
I subdued him with my spiritual power though he was egotist and arrogant
Days have passed when I was a mere puppet in the hands of life,
Now I choose the course of life frivolously without any strife
Life has now bestowed me with all the blessings,
I could see today the compassion of all beings
Life is only meant for love and sharing,
This is the only testament that could free the spirit from wearing
At this moment I am overwhelmed with joy and ecstasy,
The umpteen invaluable benedictions, cosmos showering, I could see
Inner realm of my heart is rejoicing with blissful delight,
I am no more in fright with life, though I am still a child of destiny.
Sreejith
What is a child’s destiny?
Is it our corrupt family structure, politics, prices, poverty, poor housing or our social condition?
Is it fair to let him face such a world?
Why create a generation and let them die in no time
Is it fair to let him face such a world?
Why create a child without a destiny.
Don’t do it for fun or for a pastime,
A child is important
Never create a being without a purpose
Think about the destiny of a child.
Cruel destiny that cursed me
To the sky I’m wondering
How could it be?
Without love do I have to live?
One day the sun came into my door
His beauty face made me fall
But In the shadows I got lost
The truth that I ignored
Twice I think I loved someone
But no one ever love me that much
This cruel destiny had been so mean
Putting this curse on me
Spanish, Destino cruel
Agony entangles me and around my soul
Fire storms down on a winter night
Moonlight shines its glorious light
Signs of the battle for what witch will be right
Open the gates and carry away there fright
Through the valley of the thunder
Deep in stormy winter ice
Its time now so roll the dice
Is this the old mans advice
Suffering this agony is this the price
To stand up for glorious freedom
Or fall down in shame
You cant fly away
You will have to stand up and face thus
Brothers of fallen swords
Rise tonight
Past agony, and despair
Fighting onwards but can not fight away
Destiny awaits thee
Open the gates
Forevermore we fight
Fighting for freedom
Till the sword frees thus
Open the gates
As we walk through with honor
For freedom we fight
Freedom of personal will
Our souls will carry out another day
It will shine and raise past the universe
Forevermore we stay free
Forevermore we will fight for freedom
Till sword have free thus
For the sword I live
And by the sword I will fight to I die
For eternity I'll fight onwards even if I cant fight away
Ill rise again for Valhalla will await me and I will be immortal
For destiny will come as my time to stand by Odin's will come forth
As I walk through the gates
I walk through with honor
Freedom I fight to the end
for now destiny lays greater then kings and hummed lands
Fighting onwards but can not fight away
For freedom I fight
For freedom I lost sight
But my soul carries on
For now I'm immortal
As I stand side by side
destiny I ride
So open up the gates
As I walk thought with honor
Oh I awaited thee
The day when the sword would free
So destiny could be
To open the gates,
and walk through with honor
As i stand side by side with Odin
I am now immortal
Destiny and love
Are the two things
That connect me to my life
If you read between the lines
You will see it or you will find it
Written there
What determines our destiny to be?
What we become, futures predestined to see.
Where will roads lead untill it all ends?
Destiny calling, live's for some predestined to spend.
Why do our lives, create a passion for some?
And then for others, there seems to be none?
Struggling to be what is too far from fingers reach,
Never accomplishing, what it is that you have preached.
Dreams and hopes, they fade in the mist,
Grasping at life, from the dark depth of an abyss.
Looking back at what could, should, may have been,
Lacking  that door of opportunity  for your passion deep within.
Silver spoons for some placed in the mouths of their young,
Others dying to achieve selling you dreams with forked tongues.
Jokes being played an other's laughter not heard,
Destiny fullfilled at the bottom of a bottle at a curb.
My destiny is tired.
The slope leads upwards, onwards,
Into clouds and far beyond.
My destiny, like me, walks slowly
Mumbles softly
Remembers ancient rhymes.
My destiny, not knowing why
Hardly realising that every game has it's rules
Has decided to try
Though, tired, and betrayed,
A little bit frayed
Has decided
To carry on, far beyond, with aching feet,
On the winding path, the trees
The boulders and rocks
To avoid the torrent gushing beneath.
Copyright Rani Turton 2008
Many a time a man has been know to
travel a road seeking to avoid his
destiny and low and behold, there,
thou unintended, he meets his fate.
© Joe Fazio
All through your great life journey you follow your destiny
And where you are living at today is where you are meant to be
And whether you live in your Hometown or from there live far away
It all goes back to destiny where you are at today
We make our own decisions and for our mistakes we pay
Yet in the course of our destiny we do not have a say
From the moment we are born our pathways through life are paved
And the destinies of our life's journeys in our souls are engraved
Though many will tell you differently they say our life's journey is our own choice
But destiny the silent one never does heed advice
And even those who do not believe in it follow it every day
Where-ever their journeys take them to destiny leads the way
And whether you travel far from home or live in your own country-side
Destiny of seven letters your life's journey decide.
When the life blossoms
Destiny engraved in our lives
When virtue and vice sway to and fro
Energized and driven by supernatural forces
When we are grown up
Our lives started to face challenges
When we encounter distress
Our lives impregnated with tears and worries
That is the destiny of our lives.......
Sometimes our lives tinged and
Embroilled with joys and sorrows
Destiny inflicting poison and evil into our lives
Destiny can make or mar our lives
Destiny inspires our lives to prosperity
It can perish our prospects
Fortune and fate tossing each other
End of lives salunated with blessings
Dulakshi Wakista Copyright 2009
Destiny where do I find you?
Destiny where can I look for you?
Destiny where are you hiding?
Why are you hiding from me?
Destiny what do you have for me?
Destiny what are my options?
Destiny which door is open for me?
Destiny do you have anything for me that I might want?
Destiny can I get any satisfaction from you?
Destiny are you my friend?
With fairy dust
of altered belief
I sprinkled some
powdery sugar
on a worn-out bee
trapped on my side
of the screened-window.
whose spirit is entwined
with your destiny?
My flesh quivers...
Drawn towards the edge
of absolute certainty
In the subterranean depth,
the buzzing sound
grows dimmer.
Death! wielding
over life
A transient passage
into a place
where  silence
is gone...
What a strange life one must lead
Heading towards our destruction
We are born to die
But first we must survive
Someone has planned that at a point in our lives
We will decide to destruct
Nothing will equal that time
For that will be our climax
Everything we feel is perfect
Though its not as perfect
As the time we reach our destiny
What strange happenings will befall us all
Before our final performance?
How many times will we conclude
That nothing can be as great as this?
Try as we will the conclusion
Will be the best performance of our lives
For within us all
Is the desire to leave the world dramatically.
We all must leave our mark
Be it only that we have lived
It is a mark
Before I go I want to say
Thankyou for letting me go this way
Don’t tell me when I must go
For I know when my final performance will be.
Prepare me to judge as I will be judged
So that I can know when and how to help
Make it hard to understand
So that my feelings will be my guide.
Here I stand in the darkness of the night
Where only the stars see me,
For I am in the blackest shadows
Flat up against a wall
And the only thing you can see
Is the glint of my blue eyes.
My heart is running at a staggered tempo
Because I can feel you near me
Your presence is like a ghost
Unseen, like me
But we’re both searching for something,
Looking for the person we know is out there
The one we sense will make us feel alive.
Bound together by a force to strong to resist
You walk closer,
Even though you can’t see
And stop, a foot away.
I hold my breath
Trying not to make a noise
Yet wanting to let you know I’m there
Your eyes lock with mine,
And I can’t help gasping.
Because blood has gone boiling.
My eyes go dark as I take you in,
And you walk closer ‘till you’re a mere breath away,
Tilting my head up, I look at you,
And you raise your hand,
Wrapping it around my neck,
Then, without a word,
Your head lowers to mine,
In an endless kiss of destiny.
It was my destiny to die,
and no matter how much you try,
it is everyones destiny to die,
no matter old or young,
death will break the needle on which you're life is strung,
death cares not that you're in love,
death will push you death will shove,
till you're life is on the edge,
then death the sealer of you're destiny,
will steal you're soul,
and let you be,
for it truly is our destiny,
no matter how hard it is to see,
to live to die to simply be.
I packed my bags
and left the house
to a DESTINY,
that i knew was not easy.
I knew there were obstacles on the way
still i knew i had to stay
the path was uneven, uneasy
but i knew i could not quit
because i knew it was my DESTINY.
I felt like an ant on the Noa's ark
i was alone there on the path,
i had no-one to discuss my worries
happines seemed to be buried
no shoulder to cry upon
no buddy to depend on
i felt like an ant on the Noa's ark
i knew i was alone there on the path.
Then an idea striked my mind,
to think and find
where the path was leading me to,
the answer i got was an unknown DESTINY where i had to go.
I dint know why
all i knew was that i had to fly
and reach the heights of my DESTINATION
for i knew in the end my life had to be an inspiration.
I stood on a hill overlooking the sea,
and wondered what my destiny be.
Would I be loved or would I be lonely?
Would I sail on a pirate clipper
in search of some lost treasure?
The wind ruffled my hair,
but the sea never spoke to me.
Every person has a journey,
for some it is long,
while others it is short.
No one can read our destiny;
we only make it what it is to be.
A consistent soul believes in destiny,
A capricious one in chance –
Dare to realize success
If you have the courage to trance.
The tallest trees are most in the blasts of the tempest,
Pay your premium off to ambition or have a rest.
Dreams are like stars you may never touch,
Chase and chase – look! Destiny be in your clutch
I trust my soul,
And my only goal
Is just to be its choice – not chance –
That decides your destiny at a glance.
1856
Paris, from throats of iron, silver, brass,
Joy-thundering cannon, blent with chiming bells,
And martial strains, the full-voiced pæan swells.
The air is starred with flags, the chanted mass
Throngs all the churches, yet the broad streets swarm
With glad-eyed groups who chatter, laugh, and pass,
In holiday confusion, class with class.
And over all the spring, the sun-floods warm!
In the Imperial palace that March morn,
The beautiful young mother lay and smiled;
For by her side just breathed the Prince, her child,
Heir to an empire, to the purple born,
Crowned with the Titan's name that stirs the heart
Like a blown clarion--one more Bonaparte.
1879
Born to the purple, lying stark and dead,
Transfixed with poisoned spears, beneath the sun
Of brazen Africa! Thy grave is one,
Fore-fated youth (on whom were visited
Follies and sins not thine), whereat the world,
Heartless howe'er it be, will pause to sing
A dirge, to breathe a sigh, a wreath to fling
Of rosemary and rue with bay-leaves curled.
Enmeshed in toils ambitious, not thine own,
Immortal, loved boy-Prince, thou tak'st thy stand
With early doomed Don Carlos, hand in hand
With mild-browed Arthur, Geoffrey's murdered son.
Louis the Dauphin lifts his thorn-ringed head,
And welcomes thee, his brother, 'mongst the dead.
Destiny has gifted us a perfect way
You don’t dare it is what you say
Remember this life will be taken away
Hence you always submit and pray
His command you must obey
Else life will become astray.
I live life because life lives me,
I try to see the real meaning
Of the lives that we lead,
Each time I search,
All I seem to see,
is a mirror with an image
reflecting me.
Is fate a truth
or just a word that we use
whenever were in doubt,
is this the excuse
guilt is a feeling,
that we experience through time.
any way we deal with it
it wont disappear from life.
happiness is great,
so long as it doesn’t change,
we feel good inside,
but what makes us feel this way.
how long is it,
before the greatness goes away,
Is it the falling of the rain,
or a bad day.
Where do I search for the words that I need,
to express all the emotions I forget to relieve,
intelligence means nothing,
I should know
it doesn’t take a genius to show how they feel.
Time can only tell
where our lives will ever go,
we cant do anythng
but see it for ourselves.
They deliver the edicts of God
without delay
And are exempt from apprehension
from detention
And with their God-given
Petasus, Caduceus, and Talaria
ferry like bolts of lightning
unhindered between the tribunals
of Space & Time
The Messenger-Spirit
in human flesh
is assigned a dependable,
self-reliant, versatile,
thoroughly poet existence
upon its sojourn in life
It does not knock
or ring the bell
or telephone
When the Messenger-Spirit
comes to your door
though locked
It'll enter like an electric midwife
and deliver the message
There is no tell
throughout the ages
that a Messenger-Spirit
ever stumbled into darkness
nothing better than not knowing what's going to happen,
nothing better than eating chocolate to numb the pain.
wishing my friends knew that i love them,
wishing he knew im madly in love with him.
hoping the best comes out of my mistakes,
hoping i live to see tomorrow.
listening to the ones i love the most,
listening to the pounding heart in fear.
seeing nothing but a fanasty world,
seeing the truth that lies behind your eyes.
tasting the truth of life,
tasting the pain of unknown.
living like theres no tomorrow,
living without the truth.
smelling the sweet revenge,
smelling the destiny that lies within.
TODAY IS TOMMOROW,
DAYZ OF SHALLOW,
THE SUN YOU FOLLOW,
THE LIGHT OF SHADOW,
YESTURDAY IS GONE,
A NEW DAY HAS COME,
THA CROSSROADS OF ETERNITY,
WICH IS MY DESTINY?
LOST SOULS BENEATH HELLS BLACK HOLES,
ANGELS VICTORIOUS
ABOVE HEAVEN SO GLORIOUS.
Copyright ©2009  Jose Murguia
To a woman's womb evolves...
from conception through the waiting of an exact moment
to breathe life....
Between that time of birth....
until  man's journey through his existence is a struggle
to find the reason to go on....
Searching an answer from an emptiness within...
and open up to that basic light we were born into
Get into that feeling of wholeness, completeness
that you want to give something... out of your existence
And then someone accepted it... and you get connected
that something is given back, and you feel...
a kind of POWER, every man's dying to have...
Fulfilling this process would reveal
the Mystery of DESTINY... that
What we've been looking for... is ALWAYS HERE WITH US!
How could this happen?
I found you and you found me...
Such an awkward thing just happened
Deep in my heart I know you are
My destiny
What a sweet thing
That we are both looking in the same bright sky..
Watching the star sparkles at night
I really believe that
You are
My destiny
Why from the moment I saw you
My heart melted so fast like ice?
How could this be?
I know that it just can be true
That you are the one
My destiny
My heart is beating so fast when you are near
It pumps like it never been before
I know our heart beats the same way
Cos I know you are
My destiny
I really wanted someone like you
The person that can really hold on me
Someone who can love me forever
I know it is you
'Cause you are
My destiny
Maybe all we need is just to believe on each other
I know we can make it through
Just hold my hand..
Look in to my eyes
Love will find a way
I know it would be okay
My destiny
I know
I believe
We are meant to be
With all my heart and soul
I will give you all my love
My destiny
Is it destiny that we met?
Like thunder and lightning we click each other.
Is it destiny that we parted?
Like heaven and earth we miss each other.
Is it destiny that we are made for each other?
Like the poles of a magnet attracted together.
Is it destiny that we had lost each other?
Like the world vanishing to nether.
My love, can we meet again?
Can heaven be kind to seal us again?
Can we pray to god to unite us again?
Can lord make this unity a everlasting one?
Flirt with me today
and you may lust for my tomorrows.
Seek the fate I have in store for you
And you may have not time for borrow.
Destiny has it written
Written down in every page well.
It is the fate we all must spend in life
Destiny has you under its destined spell.
Some may make it to the top
Then some not even to take a step.
But whatever you think you all deserve
It is but destiny in this life you'll get!
Some may seem to die before their time
Then others you wonder why they've not?
You see that is just their destiny
And it is all of what they'd got.
Some rich, some poor as church mice
Then others never seem to have to work at all!
It all lie within their destiny you see
It lie within each destiny that was called.
destiny
will fail me
once again i made the wrong choice
and im proud
even though pride cames before the fall
i cant fall with no ledge
so this is to fate
heads or tails
choose wisely
What a word
What a code
To find
To define
To ponder
To wonder
To live
To believe
To act
A pact
A fate
Of faith
A gift
To receive
To conceive
Or deceive
T’was a lad on a hilltop
He placed a hand over his brow
He looked here and there
From right to left, left to right
He focused his sight far away
There… a hot white wall, he saw
Empty, vacant and nothing at all
He wanted to see far more beyond
What would happen to his soul
In the next fifty years?
Nobody could put in the picture
Only God for sure can tell
Life is fore ordained by the Divine
T’was a lad on a mountain top
He insisted to know his future
God wouldn’t talk or answer
He searches then for the elusive quest
He found Babalawo and Shamen
Destiny you’re looking for?
It is a fixed sequence of events
Inevitable, unchangeable
Like a bullet that has your name on it
We can’t foretell, we don’t know
But the lad continued his search
He met Moirae and Parcae
When your number comes up, they say
T’was a lad on Mount Everest
A meeting between Tyche, Fortuna and him
Destiny is like the flowering of a romance
That has meant to be, they say
There was Nonus the Norse goddess
He saw her spinning the threads of destinies
Each thread represents individual’s fate
Choose then your destiny, she said
And once you’re on your path
It’s interchangeable! So…
The lad came down to earth, depressed
He’ll never know what his fate was
I now gaze fixedly and intently  upon our predetermined destiny and realize that  our love is nothing but a perversion of reality, A distortion of equality, nothing but a cataclysmic consequence of infatuation.
I  foresee the dark ahead even as we lay enervated by our unsheathed passion and as the incandescent glow of our love begins to  attenuate i realize this is our destiny our never ending legacy.
I now lament that which is our destiny for it is not that of which i had envisioned for us, now i fear our destiny is sealed as the wheels of fate conspire to rob us of our eternal desire.the life we shared smolders in the ashes of our future. This is to be our destiny
Dealing with your life in a nowhere land,
Establishing connections, but breaking something else,
Surrounded by the sharks, hiding for happiness,
Trying to fight desires, dreams and passions that can tempt
Invading your mind and soul with flakes of love like a tsunami…
None of us knows the way to the unleashed passion…
You know that even though… there is a thing we cannot stop…
And that is… our destiny!
Destiny is destined,
What is decided by him is fated,
And we sometime stop our selves thinking we can’t do this,
But honest application and focused actions can lead to tangible achievements,
Life is an unpredictable flow,
And God doesn’t believe in orchestrating our entire life.
Destiny is choice,
Where things occurring or to be occurred is in our hands,
Luck is nothing but a matter of thought,
It’s our flexible thoughts and actions which are the role players,
Distorted ways will even meet a lucid end,
So always relish and experience every moment,
And be destined to do better always.
We plot our own destiny
Be it the path to happiness
Or the road to ruin.
Despite the highs and lows of our lives
It is we and we alone
Who plot our own destinies.
We can choose to be changed
Or be the agents of change
We can remain chained
To the taboos imposed by society
Or we can unchain ourselves and be free
Whatever we chose will finally
Make or mar our destiny.
A distant dream
just to make it big
waiting for just that hit! ! !
Not a mirage in science
not a fiction in literature
just a desire to be there...
The urge in me,
and also to fulfill
my parents' desire
I got to be there.
Don't wanna make that 'big'
but have to be there somewhere high
where my parents can proudly say,
'she's   our  daughter'
Can't tell if I become an ace in some field
how my bro's cool attitude will get cooler.
Hope I come out with flying colors sooner! ! !
Don't know what life has
in store for me.
I just leave everything to Almighty
to decide my    'DESTINY'
Three roses, wan as moonlight, and weighed down
Each with its loveliness as with a crown,
Drooped in a florist's window in a town.
The first a lover bought. It lay at rest,
Like flower on flower, that night, on Beauty's breast.
The second rose, as virginal and fair,
Shrunk in the tangles of a harlot's hair.
The third, a widow, with new grief made wild,
Shut in the icy palm of her dead child.
We met at the pool when you were just a kid
such a gentle soul, a life barely lived
i had to leave for a little while
you welcomed me back with that same warm smile
i wanted to know you just a bit better
that one night lasted almost forever
i guess u dont know it yet but
that night you saved me from inner death
for some strange reason i felt a connection
one i havent felt in 19 years life lessons
as time went on we only got closer
i prayed day and night for it never to be over
but the past shows us nothing last forever
why didnt i try to do things a bit better
i became selfish, greedy and one track minded
i wanted you all to myself until i was reminded
that things arent always as they seem
it was just all my pathetic little dream
we learnt together a long time ago
life without the other just wasnt the go
we cant be together and cant be without
i should never have opened my big mouth
so here we are now trying to patch this up
what brought this on so quickly, so abrupt
of course thats right it was me
chasing my fabricated destiny
i hope we can move past this mess
i know i will try my absoloute best
i want, no i need you in my life
who is to say wether its wrong or right
time is the only judge, that will truly decide
wether i should leave this place or swallow my pride
because i dont want to lose you or have to leave
we are destined to be just friends, i have to believe
Through the doors of suspense he comes,
What is in store, he only knows;
All have to surrender and bow,
To the tribute for deeds what he throws;
All wait to find what he will bestow,
Sometimes blessed in a continuous flow,
Like a Christmas gift in a winter snow;
Whenever he feels confers with mazel tov,
Bringing with it the happiness though,
Sometime escorted with a share of sorrow;
With pain and strain you toil in life’s meadow,
Nature presents fortune with harmony and love;
Thoughts, words and deeds are the seeds we sow,
It is preparation waiting to marry chance, as I know;
Drudging my way through narrow pavements of dusty roads,
cycling with all my friends,
I played hide and seek with them
in a joyous mood,
round the tall and bushy trees
and cemented constructions
of a beautiful park,
When all of a sudden,
a man with probing eyes,
plunging into a black woolen blanket,
holding a long bamboo stick,
seating cross legged in a corner,
beside a cup of gleaming viscous liquid,
gazed at me,
Puzzled and terrified,
I began to run helter skelter
towards the exit of the grave,
When I heard, he was whispering aloud,
My boy! Where are you running!
Only to return here, back, soon? ? ?
*This poem speaks about the mood swings from delight to despair and happiness to horror. A man in his boyhood days was cycling along with his friends in a joyful mood around the large trees and bushes of a beautiful park. All of a sudden, the place seemed to him as a grave and a strange man with a peculiar wardrobe and a wooden stick emerged and frightened the boy who was running to the exit of the place, by whispering aloud that he has to return to this place one day.
My destiny haunts me day, my destiny haunts
me at nights.
My destiny speaks to me each morning,
still I have not understood what
"Destiny is".
My destiny keeps me up at nights pondering
about "Destiny", which I have heard so much
about. Yet I can not find the answer to my
own destiny.
Seeing my fellow human it would appear that
most of them have found the secret to this
destiny. But, some like myself are still in
search of our destiny.
My destiny suddenly comes to light when I was
near my end through the path of life. And, it
was at that point I became aware that my task
throughout my life was my destiny.
My destiny has been visible in my actions, in
my words during my life. The failer to make
contact with my destiny was none other, than
lack of understanding.
Destiny beckon at me with these words, "If
you had known the meaning of the word destiny,
you would not have toiled so much."
That is your destiny.
Lowing to self I ask slow,
O my master! Where to go?
Said the self left in me,
“To wandering paths in woods and meads
lying ahead in world of treads.”
“To the path which lead you to
the valley of thy destined goal.
Not the path which left you in
the valley of horrible den.”
Thus answered the other power.
and left me in a confused mark.
I felt done when a voice within
told me a certain thing.
“Never to worry what path grace
All paths go….. To same place.”
Down the road of destiny
you see your future life
you see your future children
and you see your future wife
Walking down your path of fate
you lose grasp of all your dreams
you cant find your accomplishments
you lose site of everything
Which path to take, you cant decide
but now you have to choose
on one its what you gain that counts
and the other its what you lose
You must pick now, your time is up
which road will you now take?
maybe the path of destiny
or even the path of fate.
Life or death.......which matters most
you should've thought before,
before you decided to get drunk
and you drove down to the store.
You knew that it was comming
your mom said dont drink and drive
maybe you should've listened
and you might still be alive.
The emotions deep inside me begin to whirl up within
As the images of the past sweep by my mind
Shadows of deadly betrayal imprison my brain
And impressions of shattered faith is left behind
With memories of the past surrounding me
I lost myself once more in thoughts of thee
I know not when I lost my conviction
Suffering from the woes of eviction
Oceans of tears flowed from my eyes
With each tear a sentiment died
There was no support
There were no sighs
Night after night I simply cried
In the arms of despondence now I lie
Remembering each beat of our heart
With each thrash now my feelings die
With each passing moment we further part
My eyes burnt, I weep no more
Darkness and gloom reign over me
With eyes of my mind I saw a “we”
What with open eyes I couldn’t see
My prayer still unanswered
My contemplation still vague
My body still untouched
My soul still enduring the plague
There is no end to the feeling of being slaughtered
For sorrow and pain are now friends of mine
May you be blessed now and forever
For my true heart shall always remain thine
My feet has finally struck the ground
And I find myself lonely no more
The waves break with a shattering sound
And I reach out my hand to touch the shore
**FATE AND DESTINY!
I couldn’t quite figure out till date,
If destiny makes us or we make our fate!
If what is destined can never be changed,
Why struggle at all, just blame it on fate? !
But today I recall that old story line,
Young Napoleon was once a truant child!
His worried mother took the child, -
To seek a fortuneteller’s advice!
The old teller had smiled and said, -
‘Madam your son has no line of fate! ’
Young Napoleon took out his pen knife,
Cut his palm to carve his fate line!
Rest is history nothing more need be said;
You may now decide about that line of
fate!
-Raj Nandy
06 May 09
(After writing about serious historical stuff,
I wanted to write about lighter things!)
< br>
.
Fate and Destiny
Who can tell us what Fate and Destiny are?
Who can tell us what our Fate is?
Who can tell us what our Destiny is?
Fate. Destiny.
People say we cannot choose our Fate, but we can choose our Destiny.
People say we are Fated or Destined to do/become something.
Fate. Destiny.
Are they different?
Are they the same?
People say we can choose Destiny and we are Fated to do it.
People say that our Destiny is open, but our Fate is sealed.
Are Fate and Destiny the same?
If our Destiny has yet to be chosen but our Fate is sealed, then is not our Destiny already chosen, but unseen to us until the opportune moment?
Fate. Destiny.
When is the opportune moment?
At what point in our life will our Fate and Destiny be revealed?
Or will we realize what our Fate and Destiny are only when it is too late?
Or will we pass our Fate and Destiny without knowing it?
Fate. Destiny.
If someone tells us what our Fate and Destiny are, will we like what we hear?
Or will you strive against the path set before you?
there she stands
with her evil hands
what do i do as a tiny man
against this vicious beautiful woman
however good i try to be
nay she says
you only GET what is destined from me
why do i work
why do i love
why do i even pray
when all i GET
is already predestined
To find your true happiness tempt fate to discover your destiny.
You must hearken back to when real happiness was known
Remember its impact on your life
Opportunity knocks, open the door, you will see it coming.
You may be surprised to discover fate can mask your destiny.
Your fate and your destiny are not one in the same.
Your fate is what you settle for in life.
What you take as your life marches on day by day, an obligation to life.
Destiny is the gate you find at the end of the path you blaze
As you strive to attain life’s goal open the gate and find love,
Happiness and contentment;  true peace of heart and mind.
Fate may leave you at destiny’s gate at the end of life.
Knowing only the travails of your battles to achieve life’s goal
Knowing not the sweetness of your victories.
The gate may not be open,  leaving you empty
At the end of life's journey.
The path to your destiny is yours and yours alone
Ask yourself whether you wish to settle for your fate or…
Tempt your fate and discover the path.
The dark side of life; fear and self doubt can blur and cover the path.
Not always seen in the clear; hidden in your memory
Or on the full plate before you the path is always there.
Those who have known the depth of their love,  the strength of their spirit,
Will find a guiding light illuminates their path.
In these qualities of character you will discover your true self
And the key to unlock the gate.
You will recognize the guide of your light.
The choice is yours, settle for fate or follow the light,
Find the key, unlock the gate … discover your destiny.
If you're really so far,
and in love with someone else..
How come i still feel your
presence then,
like you're inside me
somewhere..
You said, i should try to forget
you,
and the dreams together we
shared.
So i forgot even my own image,
but you're still inside my head.
I cross the crowded streets,
pretending you're walking
beside me.
I hardly stand in front of mirror,
not to see the truth it would
make me see.
Deep inside, heart knows that i'm
a loner,
and that's exactly what i was
meant to be..
Whatever you'll throw my way,
i'll accept it as my Fate's Destiny.
Within the womb God chose for me, I waited so forlorn...
I didn't know my destiny or when I would be born.
I didn't know the words to speak, I only had one thought...
I knew that I was quite unique, without me being taught.
I sensed that there was so much more than one great beating sound
That was my mother's heart, so pure, I felt love all around...
The months crawled by and so did I, content within her form...
There was a peace no man could buy, so tender and so warm.
Then came the day she gave me birth, to lay within her arms...
She told me that my life had worth and quoted from the Psalms.
My father held me to his heart and welcomed me as well.
In time, my parents would impart the truths that they must tell...
And so I learnt of Jesus Christ, the Saviour of my soul!
The Lamb of God once sacrificed, whose blood would make me whole!
God called me near, by name, that day and promised Heaven's bliss
And so I humbly knelt to pray - to enter into this...
I saw a feather quill on high fall from God's holy dove,
'By faith, write poems till you die, to save the lost with love.'
Into this world Jesus came
As mere flesh and bone
He came for our sins to atone
This babe, this glorious babe so pure
Came and suffered the punishment
As he died for mankind’s sin
Yes much grief and pain did he
Our Lord “Jesus” endure
What a price to pay for mankind whom
His genuine love we did not deserve
Yet through his righteousness
And by spilling his precious blood
He washed away our sins-like
Unto a great flood!
By dieing that awful day our sins were washed
Away with that first dropp of blood
He left with us his promise to arise again
His thirst was not quenched as the blood ran freely
Down his skin
Without Jesus’ birth and death upon Calvary
We would have been destroyed never to be
Remembered again
Then there would have been no
Way to cover our multitude of sin
He knew his destiny
Yet for you and I he still chose to die
He loved us so much he wanted to give
Us the chance of eternal life
With him most high
©Copyright 1999 Becky LaPrarie
Her Destiny
She is on the edge of a branch
Too light to fall
Too heavy to hover
Balanced, so precariously
Looking down on her life’s ending
The sweet nothingness
Head bowed and body swaying
Crowded with voices,
Questions being her only thoughts
Life for her is a roundabout
That she cannot get off
Could she fall, could she do it?
Could she hold on if she tipped?
Clawing back, making a last decision
Heart beating fast and hard
Back to where though?
To her branch?
To the ever tipping scales
Back to the something that is indecision
Unbearable indecision
Life has no way for her
No way for this girl
Neither mapped out nor planned
But excruciatingly paused at
Life’s endless boundary
A contradiction of a life
No supporting branch
No tree of life
She can’t get back now
Not back far enough to hold on
To her tree of life
She will stay swaying, teetering
Until she falls,
No longer light,
Too heavy to hover
To her life’s end
Her only destiny
I cannot love
For I will die.
So much passion I keep
That is only known for me inside.
No one sees the grace
In every tear I cry.
For no one deserves the greatnes
Of my eye.
Untouchable I seem to be,
But indeed I'm not.
A queen of dammned souls I am
Love I cannot be worth of.
For this is the destiny I have to live
And one day leave.
My soul is empty
Without the mother of all feelings
Love.
Freedom is my birth right!
I feel if the world would revolve on its own beat and spin......
It is beautiful in its own.....
Man  must learn to accept realities as they are
Face it on the face
With acceptance walk his path
This solves most problems in its root
It is influencing
Trying to influence
To dream
Creating virtual reality
That is man's birth
On earth
Some create with tools'
Some with action
Others with money
few with words
Each soul born
Leaves his mark
The circle of influence may vary
Each soul
must his burden
He alone bear
No love
Can barrow pain
Sharing and caring
Is making this stay a heaven
Holding grudges and competing
Enhances productivity and negativity
Duality is here for eternity
you may or may not acknowledge
Change is constant
For man is for ever evolving.......
You too must change
as must I.
Choice is  that which determines destiny!
I create my own destiny!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~malinikad ir
If my destiny is already chosen....
Then why do I need to make it MINE?
If I was to live like this
Then why did I have to redefine
The meaning of death
And this drastic lose of faith...?
Gods are getting scarce.......
Worshipping affinity we are
Distortion's the order of the day
Mistrust is here only to stay
Stitching together
The images of fear
Destiny replacing 'curse'.....
Gods... they ARE getting scarce.......
had always toyed with
this idea we call destiny
is it some pre-programmed stuff?
is it scripted by me?
i could never decide
whenever i felt myself
an agent of some force
i became a mere toy
in the hands of destiny that
turned me into a spectator and
whenever the agent took back seat
i became the proud architect
of my destiny struttering around in glory
but
...still at times
when i no longer had
the nerve to take
just another wink
i wondered what it would be
if you were with me
and it's at these moments
i clearly see the invisible hand of
destiny waving her hand in victory
and giving me a wry smile at
my utter helplessness
this is how destiny
has charted its course
for me in this life...
is what i would tell myself
unwillingly, though...
no longer in youthful arrogance
i now see
what i'm is
what my destiny
doled out to me
in all its benevolence...
27sep2009
11.18hrs
To get you to smile means the world to me
I dont know where to begin
Through thick and thin
And in between
You loving me has been a dream
I always wondered if dreams came true
It was proved to me the day i met you
I love you soo much you'll never know
Day by day my love for you grows
Love has always been a game for me
But with you loving me
It seems like destiny
If you had one chance,
Would you take it?
If you were given a taste of your dreams,
Would you take it?
If you were shown what you dreamed of,
Would you take it?
Don’t you see?
This is my destiny,
All roads have leaded here.
If you greatest fear was taken away,
Would you take it then?
If all the problems were take way,
Would you take it?
If you were given the chance to show your potential,
Wouldn’t you take that chance?
Don’t you see?
This is my destiny,
All roads leaded here.
All I had to do was make a sacrifice,
And look what I have got?
If that was the only thing you had to do,
Wouldn’t you do it for the chance?
Wouldn’t you do for your destiny?
Your destiny?
Don’t you see?
This is my destiny,
All roads leaded here.
You just don’t understand,
It’s my destiny to be here,
To do all this,
You say don’t believe in destiny?
I say that you do,
You just don’t know it yet.
8/05/06
two kites,
bobbing in the sky,
tied to the reel,
in the hands of destiny.
the reel pulls,
up and down they go,
just like us
controlled, by
golden hands of god.
independence,
depending
on his will!
to float and survive, his wish,
to come down crashing
also his wish.
to survive it tries its best,
but restricted is its neck,
tied to the string,
it tugs and pulls,
sometimes entangled,
sometimes free.
when the game is over,
useless is the kite,
like in old age
its body torn and shattered,
somewhere in the ground.
again, we see another kite,
flying high in the sky,
as the body takes,
another birth!
I'm the richer, among these thieves
A mighty gem, scattered the world over
A world overlord, looking over the waters
For beyond these shores I'm assured to own others
The death of a nation, the birth of a dynasty
An empire the sun never settles on
Meaning it's on-going, and that it's no rest
For my off-shore investments, my foreign possessions
Longing for freedom, peace, and love
And receiving none
In Indian towns,
In crooked and barren canyons
On this side of Arizona,
The broken youth walk
Their negro dogs;
They dress in dirty black suites,
Black ball caps, onyx t-shirts,
Charcoal latex and evening gowns.
On a black road
Approaching midnight
Obscured in the clouded
Reservoir of drunken ancestors,
They petition Coyote,
Smearing chunks of coal
Into their eyes
To disappear into the next
Brilliant appearance
Of manifest destiny.
Post - Revolutionary War,
With 13 new states in the east,
The Feds said, 'Got to get some more -'
'All the way west, to say the least.'
Over the years some land was bought.
Lots more was spoils of victory.
No matter how it all was got,
It was 'manifest destiny.'
Today's south border - what to do?
The Feds are stuck in politics.
Look to the historical cue.
Money and might should be the fix.
To stop the border's northern flow,
Buy or wage war on Mexico.
The opportunity to be masters of our destiny is far more
attainable then being masters of our mind. For conscious
thoughts that we experience are but a grain of sand
upon the beach of our subconscious.
© Joe Fazio
When I am happy,
bustling with successes in life,
When my dreams are fulfiiled,
with love and riches I desired,
I do not even think that,
my destiny brought me here,
I just give credit to myself.
When we meet our beloved,
when we start to love and miss each other,
why we give all the credit to fate and destiny?
We strove to get into that enchanted world,
we played all the rituals of the love acts,
There is no destiny,
we got into it by our own free will.
When we are sad,
with the miseries of life and death,
with broken dreams of happy life,
with tormented heart in our love oasis,
why we think that all of it was in our destiny?
Life is like an ocean wave,
it has low tides,
soon to be followed by the high tide,
All we need is faith and determination,
to get over the notion of our predetermined destiny.
Destiny does not shape our future,
we do by our deeds and actions,
I do not beleived in pre professed destiny,
because I shape my own destiny.
I think I know surely where I 'm living
though my thought's full with uncertainty
days and nights pass away  unfriendly
without doing anything
to decrease temperature of my heart
Which was scattered by a girl
or an animal
or my bosom friend.
Angry wind and rain
and the spears and knives  from the Satan's hands
cannot make to weaken
the strength and soul of my life
though they live together with in me
even in my  dreams.
They will blame me
if I show my love on the air
as the light of the little star
of the darkest night
but I'll say and to for someone as I can
because you have your troubles enough
as long as
you're something of the universe.
Very quickly
leaves dry out
and flowers wither
when the sun shines the most brightly
but I'm neither the leaves nor flowers
so, I 'll go on my way
for long nights and days
across the oceans and sparks
to please  the weary and wretched hearts.
Ko Oo (pakokku)
MY DESTINY
In a foggy mist stood a colossal gate
Where an angel stood to contemplate my faith.
Beyond the gates of heaven I saw
A world that simply left me in awe.
So I turned to the angel anxiety struck
Gathering my nerve I began to stammer
'What can I do to please the Lord,
Present to him a melody, perhaps a secret chord? ”
Said to me the angel serenely and tenderly,
'You stand right here before me
With your life serving testimony,
On earth itself you have formed your own destiny.'
As my life rewound in front of my eyes,
I couldn’t help but simply despise
My life on earth that I lived so callously
I alone was to be blamed for my destiny.
Through my window I could see the azure sky
The dream was obscure but the meaning alive.
I got up in a flash and slowly started to ponder
On my wayward life and precious moments squandered
I’ll change my ways, I’ll mend my life
As no secret chord could ever suffice.
To please the lord I’ll change within me
After all it is me who chooses my own destiny.
By Lynn Ann Lobo
I always met people
at the places i went to
but one certain event
i wasn't goin'to do
but my destiny forced me there
and i didn't have a clue
why i was so determined
that i was goin'to do
but now i know why
cuz i was to meet you
on that certain day
and fall in love with you
and my destiny changed
on that certain day too
All these days  i went around the world
Hoping to seek joy and peace.
Out of all my tender pursuit;
I found myself chained in desolate kingdom.
Money, time, trust whatnot everything
I lost; yet my pursuit in vain.
Now to regret is too futile
In such desperate vibes, I sought after
The word of LORD, where I achieved my goal!
My destiny is to dream
Dream of who I want to be
My destiny is to live the way I want to
Live in independent freedom
My destiny is to love
Love without shame
My destiny,
My destiny
My destiny is to live.
O' melody queen
Keep on whirring
And denting
Signature of a new day with your beak
On murky glass of my window.
O' melody queen
Remain my alarm clock forever
And wake me up every morning
With your mellifluous tunes.
O' melody queen
Be my fortuneteller for lifetime
And bring me luck each day
With your lyrical expressions.
(1/18/2009)
I have loved but one man in my life...
one man that I loved who didn’t love me.
I tried to get him to open his eyes,
but his eyes were shut and too blind to see.
Blind to all that my love could offer...
I gave him my mind, my body and my soul.
I offered him true love unconditional...
but he didn’t want love...he wanted control.
I tried to make my square peg fit...
into the roundness of his balanced life.
No matter how hard I tried to be his,
he wouldn’t let go of his beloved ex-wife.
For years now, I have accepted second...
for the sake of making life easy for my man.
I compromised myself in every way possible,
waiting for him to wake up and take a stand.
I wanted so much to be right for him...
to be the woman he wanted at the end of the day.
But never have I been the one he longed for...
I’m merely the woman who wouldn’t go away.
I’ve made myself be so many things I’m not...
for the sake of being with the man I love.
I’ve been cheated on and I’ve been lied to...
I’ve even been pushed around and shoved.
I keep thinking that soon he will recognize me...
as the woman who truly gave him her all.
And when that happens I will have finally succeeded,
in being the one to break down his protective wall.
But that day has still not been given to me...
that day seems even further away then before.
I wonder if I will recognize my chance when it comes,
or will I have given up and walked out the door.
It would be easy to give up and just give in...
to all that is wrong between my man and me.
But easy is not what I keep fighting for,
I fight for a life with my soul-mate...my destiny.
Copyright © 2004 Shelly Price
All Rights Reserved
To E.M. it's never too late to love...unless you believe love is too late for you.
Our destiny is in our own hands some have been known to say
But circumstance in all of that must have some part to play
If you are born on no hope street and homeless in your youth
To you our destiny is in our own hands does not have a ring of truth.
Our destiny is in our own hands to some may well apply
It may apply to you and he and her as well as I
But not of course to everyone each day thousands of hunger die
Our destiny is in our own hands to the millions is a lie.
The innocents who die in war and acts of terrorism did not create their destiny
They would not wish it on themselves for to die so tragically
Their destiny was in others hands which often is the case
They just happened at the wrong time for to be in the wrong place.
That our destiny is in our own hands apply to some maybe
But ninety nine per cent of street kids will die in poverty
Due to their circumstances of birth they are condemned to fail
And some of them die of drug overdoses and some of them die in jail.
One day i say i love you,
one day you say you love me,
i was always so happy because i was loved eternally,
for all time because its just you and I,
like a fairytale come to life we live happily ever after you and I,
for all eternity just us,
you and me this is are destiny,
i love you and you love me.....
Standing here on the threshold
of a brand new dawn,
we ponder over things
wondering if we belong
within this crazy world of ours.
Wondering if our destiny
waits for us somewhere else.
We never know the outcome
until the time comes along.
There is no way to change it
and no reason to do it.
Just let the future
shape our destiny
whenever and wherever
that might eventually be.
1 February 2008
Let's be one
Once again
Open your heart
For me again
We'll return
To paradise
Lost in each
Others eyes
Sharing dreams
That come true
Forever making
Love with you
Greeting every
Morning sun
Growing old
Staying young
Slowly slipping
Into eternity
This is
Our destiny
(FOR THOSE WHO GET A SECOND CHANCE.REMEMBER, THE PAST HAS NO FUTURE IN THE PRESENT.)
By the cottage near the lake, there moonlit
walks we would partake.
~
An there still stands the tall oak tree, where
a heart is etched and our names they be.
~
They shalt never fade away. Just as our love
'tis here to stay.
~
Our love is strong an keeps on growing
branching out and forever flowing.
~
Soaring above the heavenly sky so high.
This shall be '' our destiny '' and against
all odds - defy...
********************************** ***************
~TJW~
Cloaked in disguises
In the alley of thieves,
I’m violently tested and seeking reprieves
From tortuous days
Of casual deceptions
And blatant lies,
But Luna and youth
Have disappeared
And I remain despised
By all the suits
And their well-paid alibis.
The loveliest women
Will spit in your eyes,
And the men I trust the most
Refuse to shave
And dress like rogues,
And my best friends
Are always broke
Looking for a lonely lady
With a nice room
And spare cash,
Never expecting joy to last.
Alright, you’re with Nicky
Holed up in a goddamned cave!
But does he read Baudelaire?
Does he lose his fingers in your hair?
Does he cry, lonely and drunk,
Holding the shoes you used to wear?
You’re not going to find
Another pirate like me,
Piss in the face of destiny
To merely touch your wrist!
A little plum dropped from the tree
and struck a frog upon his knee.
The frog did hurt and cried a lot
the plum said Oops, I plum forgot.
Which wasn't altogether true
you see a plum is always blue
a frog however must be green
thus he can easily be seen.
So, folks, it truly stands to reason
that in the Fall, the ripening season
a bit of care would be advised
that way a frog is not surprised.
In any case, the knee did swell
the plum just stayed right where it fell,
so in an effort now to heal
the frog fell for the plum appeal.
He grabbed the plum and opened wide
the plum prepared for its last ride.
And said before it was too late
a plum is to be eaten, mate.
So, you can see that those that fall
from trees or buildings, big and tall
will usually just fail to see
the maker of their destiny.
1
Senlin sat before us and we heard him.
He smoked his pipe before us and we saw him.
Was he small, with reddish hair,
Did he light his pipe with a meditative stare
And a twinkling flame reflected in blue eyes?
'I am alone': said Senlin; 'in a forest of leaves
The single leaf that creeps and falls.
The single blade of grass in a desert of grass
That none foresaw and none recalls.
The single shell that a green wave shatters
In tiny specks of whiteness on brown sands . . .
How shall you understand me with your hearts,
Who cannot reach me with your hands? . . .'
The city dissolves about us, and its walls
Are the sands beside a sea.
We plunge in a chaos of dunes, white waves before us
Crash on kelp tumultuously,
Gulls wheel over foam, the clouds blow tattered,
The sun is swallowed . . . Has Senlin become a shore?
Is Senlin a grain of sand beneath our footsteps,
A speck of shell upon which waves will roar? . . .
Senlin! we cry . . . Senlin! again . . . no answer,
Only the crash of sea on a shell-white shore.
Yet, we would say, this is no shore at all,
But a small bright room with lamplight on the wall;
And the familiar chair
Where Senlin sat, with lamplight on his hair.
2
Senlin, alone before us, played a music.
Was it himself he played? . . . We sat and listened,
Perplexed and pleased and tired.
'Listen!' he said, 'and you will learn a secret--
Though it is not the secret you desired.
I have not found a meaning that will praise you!
Out of the heart of silence comes this music,
Quietly speaks and dies.
Look! there is one white star above black houses!
And a tiny man who climbs toward the skies!
Where does he walk to? What does he leave behind him?
What was his foolish name?
What did he stop to say, before he left you
As simply as he came?
"Death?" did it sound like, "love and god, and laughter,
Sunlight, and work, and pain . . .?"
No--it appears to me that these were symbols
Of simple truths he found no way to explain.
He spoke, but found you could not understand him--
You were alone, and he was alone.
"He sought to touch you, and found he could not reach you,--
He sought to understand you, and could not hear you.
And so this music, which I play before you,--
Does it mean only what it seems to mean?
Or is it a dance of foolish waves in sunlight
Above a desperate depth of things unseen?
Listen! Do you not hear the singing voices
Out of the darkness of this sea?
But no: you cannot hear them; for if you heard them
You would have heard and captured me.
Yet I am here, talking of laughter.
Laughter and love and work and god;
As I shall talk of these same things hereafter
In wave and sod.
Walk on a hill and call me: "Senlin! . . . Senlin! . . ."
Will I not answer you as clearly as now?
Listen to rain, and you will hear me speaking.
Look for my heart in the breaking of a bough . . .'
3
Senlin stood before us in the sunlight,
And laughed, and walked away.
Did no one see him leaving the doors of the city,
Looking behind him, as if he wished to stay?
Has no one, in the forests of the evening,
Heard the sad horn of Senlin slowly blown?
For somewhere, in the worlds-in-worlds about us,
He changes still, unfriended and alone.
Is he the star on which we walk at daybreak,
The light that blinds our eyes?
'Senlin!' we cry. 'Senlin!' again . . . no answer:
Only the soulless brilliance of blue skies.
Yet we would say, this was no man at all,
But a dream we dreamed, and vividly recall;
And we are mad to walk in wind and rain
Hoping to find, somewhere, that dream again.
No man need fear his Destiny's bad course,
When challenges, he meets resolutely;
Defying it and hitting hard with force;
with prudent action, that is done timely.
Who cares about destiny's monstrous face,
If man can take refuge in God's Love-shield?
Why worry of Destiny's losing case,
When God gives grace and much wisdom to field.
You must refuse defeat in many things;
Just labour hard towards success by heart;
Yet, patiently take whatever life brings;
The Creator will surely do his part.
No Destiny threatens a Lion-heart;
Nor earthly wealth to Heaven do we cart.
Auspicious Reverence! Hush all meaner song,
Ere we the deep preluding strain have poured
To the Great Father, only Rightful King,
Eternal Father! King Omnipotent!
To the Will Absolute, the One, the Good!
The I AM, the Word, the Life, the Living God!
Such symphony requires best instrument.
Seize, then, my soul! from Freedom's trophied dome
The harp which hangeth high between the shields
Of Brutus and Leonidas! With that
Strong music, that soliciting spell, force back
Man's free and stirring spirit that lies entranced.
For what is freedom, but the unfettered use
Of all the powers which God for use had given?
But chiefly this, him first, him last to view
Through meaner powers and secondary things
Effulgent, as through clouds that veil his blaze.
For all that meets the bodily sense I deem
Symbolical, one mighty alphabet
For infant minds; and we in this low world
Placed with our backs to bright reality,
That we may learn with young unwounded ken
The substance from its shadow. Infinite Love,
Whose latence is the plenitude of all,
Thou with retracted beams, and self-eclipse
Veiling, revealest thine eternal Sun.
But some there are who deem themselves most free
When they within this gross and visible sphere
Chain down the winged thought, scoffing ascent,
Proud in their meanness: and themselves they cheat
With noisy emptiness of learned phrase,
Their subtle fluids, impacts, essences,
Self-working tools, uncaused effects, and all
Those blind omniscients, those almighty slaves,
Untenanting creation of its God.
But properties are God: the naked mass
(If mass there be, fantastic guess or ghost)
Acts only by its inactivity.
Here we pause humbly. Others boldlier think
That as one body seems the aggregate
Of atoms numberless, each organized;
So by a strange and dim similitude
Infinite myriads of self-conscious minds
Are one all-conscious Spirit, which informs
With absolute ubiquity of thought
(His one eternal self-affirming act!)
All his involved Monads, that yet seem
With various province and apt agency
Each to pursue its own self-centring end.
Some nurse the infant diamond in the mine;
Some roll the genial juices through the oak;
Some drive the mutinous clouds to clash in air,
And rushing on the storm with whirlwind speed,
Yoke the red lightnings to their volleying car.
Thus these pursue their never-varying course,
No eddy in their stream. Others, more wild,
With complex interests weaving human fates,
Duteous or proud, alike obedient all,
Evolve the process of eternal good.
And what if some rebellious o'er dark realms
Arrogate power? yet these train up to God,
And on the rude eye, unconfirmed for day,
Flash meteor-lights better than total gloom.
As ere from Lieule-Oaive's vapoury head
The Laplander beholds the far-off sun
Dart his slant beam on unobeying snows,
While yet the stern and solitary night
Brooks no alternate sway, the Boreal Morn
With mimic lustre substitutes its gleam,
Guiding his course or by Niemi lake
Or Balda Zhiok, or the mossy stone
Of Solfar-kapper, while the snowy blast
Drifts arrowy by, or eddies round his sledge,
Making the poor babe at its mother's back
Scream in its scanty cradle: he the while
Wins gentle solace as with upward eye
He marks the streamy banners of the North,
Thinking himself those happy spirits shall join
Who there in floating robes of rosy light
Dance sportively. For Fancy is the power
That first unsensualizes the dark mind,
Giving it new delights; and bids it swell
With wild activity; and peopling air,
By obscure fears of beings in visible,
Emancipates it from the grosser thrall
Of the present impulse, teaching self-control,
Till Superstition with unconscious hand
Seat Reason on her throne. Wherefore not vain,
Nor yet without permitted power impressed,
I deem those legends terrible, with which
The polar ancient thrills his uncouth throng:
Whether of pitying Spirits that make their moan
O'er slaughtered infants, or that giant bird
Vuokho, of whose rushing wings the noise
Is tempest, when the unutterable shape
Speeds from the mother of Death, and utters once
That shriek, which never murderer heard, and lived.
Or if the Greenland Wizard in strange trance
Pierces the untravelled realms of Ocean's bed
Over the abysm, even to that uttermost cave
By mis-shaped prodigies beleaguered, such
As earth ne'er bred, nor air, nor the upper sea:
Where dwells the Fury Form, whose unheard name
With eager eye, pale cheek, suspended breath,
And lips half-opening with the dread of sound,
Unsleeping Silence guards, worn out with fear
Lest haply 'scaping on some treacherous blast
The fateful word let slip the elements
And frenzy Nature. Yet the wizard her,
Armed with Torngarsuck's power, the Spirit of Good,
Forces to unchain the foodful progeny
Of the Ocean stream; -- thence thro' the realm of Souls,
Where live the Innocent, as far from cares
As from the storms and overwhelming waves
That tumble on the surface of the Deep,
Returns with far-heard pant, hotly pursued
By the fierce Warders of the Sea, once more,
Ere by the frost foreclosed, to repossess
His fleshly mansion, that had staid the while
In the dark tent within a cow'ring group
Untenanted. -- Wild phantasies! yet wise,
On the victorious goodness of high God
Teaching reliance, and medicinal hope,
Till from Bethabra northward, heavenly Truth
With gradual steps, winning her difficult way,
Transfer their rude Faith perfected and pure.
If there be beings of higher class than Man,
I deem no nobler province they possess,
Than by disposal of apt circumstance
To rear up kingdoms: and the deeds they prompt,
Distinguishing from mortal agency,
They choose their human ministers from such states
As still the Epic song half fears to name,
Repelled from all the minstrelsies that strike
The palace-roof and soothe the monarch's pride.
And such, perhaps, the Spirit, who (if words
Witnessed by answering deeds may claim our faith)
Held commune with that warrior-maid of France
Who scourged the Invader. From her infant days,
With Wisdom, mother of retired thoughts,
Her soul had dwelt; and she was quick to mark
The good and evil thing, in human lore
Undisciplined. For lowly was her birth,
And Heaven had doomed her early years to toil
That pure from tyranny's least deed, herself
Unfeared by fellow-natures, she might wait
On the poor labouring man with kindly looks,
And minister refreshment to the tired
Way-wanderer, when along the rough hewn bench
The sweltry man had stretched him, and aloft
Vacantly watched the rudely pictured board
Which on the mulberry-bough with welcome creak
Swung to the pleasant breeze. Here, too, the Maid
Learnt more than schools could teach: Man's shifting mind,
His vices and his sorrows! And full oft
At tales of cruel wrong and strange distress
Had wept and shivered. To the tottering eld
Still as a daughter would she run: she placed
His cold limbs at the sunny door, and loved
To hear him story, in his garrulous sort,
Of his eventful years, all come and gone.
So twenty seasons passed. The Virgin's form,
Active and tall, nor sloth nor luxury
Had shrunk or paled. Her front sublime and broad,
Her flexile eye-brows wildly haired and low,
And her full eye, now bright, now unillumed,
Spake more than Woman's thought; and all her face
Was moulded to such features as declared
That pity there had oft and strongly worked,
And sometimes indignation. Bold her mien,
And like a haughty huntress of the woods
She moved: yet sure she was a gentle maid!
And in each motion her most innocent soul
Beamed forth so brightly, that who saw would say
Guilt was a thing impossible in her!
Nor idly would have said -- for she had lived
In this bad World, as in a place of tombs,
And touched not the pollutions of the dead.
'Twas the cold season when the rustic's eye
From the drear desolate whiteness of his fields
Rolls for relief to watch the skiey tints
And clouds slow varying their huge imagery;
When now, as she was wont, the healthful Maid
Had left her pallet ere one beam of day
Slanted the fog-smoke. She went forth alone
Urged by the indwelling angel-guide, that oft,
With dim inexplicable sympathies
Disquieting the heart, shapes out Man's course
To the predoomed adventure. Now the ascent
She climbs of that steep upland, on whose top
The Pilgrim-man, who long since eve had watched
The alien shine of unconcerning stars,
Shouts to himself, there first the Abbey-lights
Seen in Neufchatel's vale; now slopes adown
The winding sheep-track vale-ward: when, behold
In the first entrance of the level road
An unattended team! The foremost horse
Lay with stretched limbs; the others, yet alive
But stiff and cold, stood motionless, their manes
Hoar with the frozen night dews. Dismally
The dark-red dawn now glimmered; but its gleams
Disclosed no face of man. The maiden paused,
Then hailed who might be near. No voice replied.
From the thwart wain at length there reached her ear
A sound so feeble that it almost seemed
Distant: and feebly, with slow effort pushed,
A miserable man crept forth: his limbs
The silent frost had eat, scathing like fire.
Faint on the shafts he rested. She, mean time,
Saw crowded close beneath the coverture
A mother and her children -- lifeless all,
Yet lovely! not a lineament was marred --
Death had put on so slumber-like a form!
It was a piteous sight; and one, a babe,
The crisp milk frozen on its innocent lips,
Lay on the woman's arm, its little hand
Stretched on her bosom.
Mutely questioning,
The Maid gazed wildly at the living wretch.
He, his head feebly turning, on the group
Looked with a vacant stare, and his eye spoke
The drowsy calm that steals on worn-out anguish.
She shuddered; but, each vainer pang subdued,
Quick disentangling from the foremost horse
The rustic bands, with difficulty and toil
The stiff cramped team forced homeward. There arrived,
Anxiously tends him she with healing herbs,
And weeps and prays -- but the numb power of Death
Spreads o'er his limbs; and ere the noontide hour,
The hovering spirits of his wife and babes
Hail him immortal! Yet amid his pangs,
With interruptions long from ghastly throes,
His voice had faltered out this simple tale.
The village, where he dwelt a husbandman,
By sudden inroad had been seized and fired
Late on the yester-evening. With his wife
And little ones he hurried his escape.
They saw the neighbouring hamlets flame, they heard
Uproar and shrieks! and terror-struck drove on
Through unfrequented roads, a weary way!
But saw nor house nor cottage. All had quenched
Their evening hearth-fire: for the alarm had spread.
The air clipped keen, the night was fanged with frost,
And they provisionless! The weeping wife
Ill hushed her children's moans; and still they moaned,
Till fright and cold and hunger drank their life.
They closed their eyes in sleep, nor knew 'twas death.
He only, lashing his o'er-wearied team,
Gained a sad respite, till beside the base
Of the high hill his foremost horse dropped dead.
Then hopeless, strengthless, sick for lack of food,
He crept beneath the coverture, entranced,
Till wakened by the maiden. -- Such his tale.
Ah! suffering to the height of what was suffered,
Stung with too keen a sympathy, the Maid
Brooded with moving lips, mute, startful, dark!
And now her flushed tumultuous features shot
Such strange vivacity, as fires the eye
Of misery fancy-crazed! and now once more
Naked, and void, and fixed, and all within
The unquiet silence of confused thought
And shapeless feelings. For a mighty hand
Was strong upon her, till, in the heat of soul
To the high hill-top tracing back her steps,
Aside the beacon, up whose smouldered stones
The tender ivy-trails crept thinly, there,
Unconscious of the driving element,
Yea, swallowed up in the ominous dream, she sate
Ghastly as broad-eyed Slumber! a dim anguish
Breathed from her look! and still with pant and sob,
Inly she toil'd to flee, and still subdued,
Felt an inevitable Presence near.
Thus as she toiled in troublous ecstasy,
A horror of great darkness wrapt her round,
And a voice uttered forth unearthly tones,
Calming her soul, -- 'O Thou of the Most High
Chosen, whom all the perfected in Heaven
Behold expectant --'
[The following fragments were intended to form part of the poem when finished.]
'Maid beloved of Heaven!
(To her the tutelary Power exclaimed)
Of Chaos the adventurous progeny
Thou seest; foul missionaries of foul sire,
Fierce to regain the losses of that hour
When Love rose glittering, and his gorgeous wings
Over the abyss fluttered with such glad noise,
As what time after long and pestful calms,
With slimy shapes and miscreated life
Poisoning the vast Pacific, the fresh breeze
Wakens the merchant-sail uprising. Night
A heavy unimaginable moan
Sent forth, when she the Protoplast beheld
Stand beauteous on confusion's charmed wave.
Moaning she fled, and entered the Profound
That leads with downward windings to the cave
Of darkness palpable, desert of Death
Sunk deep beneath Gehenna's massy roots.
There many a dateless age the beldam lurked
And trembled; till engendered by fierce Hate,
Fierce Hate and gloomy Hope, a Dream arose,
Shaped like a black cloud marked with streaks of fire.
It roused the Hell-Hag: she the dew damp wiped
From off her brow, and through the uncouth maze
Retraced her steps; but ere she reached the mouth
Of that drear labyrinth, shuddering she paused,
Nor dared re-enter the diminished Gulf.
As through the dark vaults of some mouldered tower
(Which, fearful to approach, the evening hind
Circles at distance in his homeward way)
The winds breathe hollow, deemed the plaining groan
Of prisoned spirits; with such fearful voice
Night murmured, and the sound thro' Chaos went.
Leaped at her call her hideous-fronted brood!
A dark behest they heard, and rushed on earth;
Since that sad hour, in camps and courts adored,
Rebels from God, and tyrants o'er Mankind!'
_________________________
From his obscure haunt
Shrieked Fear, of Cruelty the ghastly dam,
Feverous yet freezing, eager-paced yet slow,
As she that creeps from forth her swampy reeds,
Ague, the biform hag! when early Spring
Beams on the marsh-bred vapours.
_________________________
'Even so (the exulting Maiden said)
The sainted heralds of good tidings fell,
And thus they witnessed God! But now the clouds
Treading, and storms beneath their feet, they soar
Higher, and higher soar, and soaring sing
Loud songs of triumph! O ye spirits of God,
Hover around my mortal agonies!'
She spake, and instantly faint melody
Melts on her ear, soothing and sad, and slow,
Such measures, as at calmest midnight heard
By aged hermit in his holy dream,
Foretell and solace death; and now they rise
Louder, as when with harp and mingled voice
The white-robed multitude of slaughtered saints
At Heaven's wide-opened portals gratulant
Receive some martyr'd patriot. The harmony
Entranced the Maid, till each suspended sense
Brief slumber seized, and confused ecstasy.
At length awakening slow, she gazed around:
And through a mist, the relique of that trance
Still thinning as she gazed, and Isle appeared,
Its high, o'er-hanging, white, broad-breasted cliffs,
Glassed on the subject ocean. A vast plain
Stretched opposite, where ever and anon
The plough-man following sad his meagre team
Turned up fresh sculls unstartled, and the bones
Of fierce hate-breathing combatants, who there
All mingled lay beneath the common earth,
Death's gloomy reconcilement! O'er the fields
Stept a fair Form, repairing all she might,
Her temples olive-wreathed; and where she trod,
Fresh flowerets rose, and many a foodful herb.
But wan her cheek, her footsteps insecure,
And anxious pleasure beamed in her faint eye,
As she had newly left a couch of pain,
Pale convalescent! (Yet some time to rule
With power exclusive o'er the willing world,
That blest prophetic mandate then fulfilled --
Peace be on Earth!) A happy while, but brief,
She seemed to wander with assiduous feet,
And healed the recent harm of chill and blight,
And nursed each plant that fair and virtuous grew.
But soon a deep precursive sound moaned hollow:
Black rose the clouds, and now (as in a dream)
Their reddening shapes, transformed to warrior-hosts,
Coursed o'er the sky, and battled in mid-air.
Nor did not the large blood-drops fall from heaven
Portentous! while aloft were seen to float,
Like hideous features looming on the mist,
Wan stains of ominous light! Resigned, yet sad,
The fair Form bowed her olive-crowned brow,
Then o'er the plain with oft reverted eye
Fled till a place of tombs she reached, and there
Within a ruined sepulchre obscure
Found hiding-place.
The delegated Maid
Gazed through her tears, then in sad tones exclaimed --
'Thou mild-eyed Form! wherefore, ah! wherefore fled?
The power of Justice like a name all light,
Shone from thy brow; but all they, who unblamed
Dwelt in thy dwellings, call thee Happiness.
Ah! why, uninjured and unprofited,
Should multitudes against their brethren rush?
Why sow they guilt, still reaping misery?
Lenient of care, thy songs, O Peace! are sweet,
As after showers the perfumed gale of eve,
That flings the cool drops on a feverous cheek;
And gay thy grassy altar piled with fruits.
But boasts the shrine of demon War one charm,
Save that with many an orgie strange and foul,
Dancing around with interwoven arms,
The maniac Suicide and giant Murder
Exult in their fierce union! I am sad,
And know not why the simple peasants crowd
Beneath the Chieftains' standard!' Thus the Maid.
To her the tutelary Spirit said:
'When luxury and lust's exhausted stores
No more can rouse the appetites of kings;
When the low flattery of their reptile lords
Falls flat and heavy on the accustomed ear;
When eunuchs sing, and fools buffoonery make,
And dancers writhe their harlot-limbs in vain;
Then War and all its dread vicissitudes
Pleasingly agitate their stagnant hearts;
Its hopes, its fears, its victories, its defeats,
Insipid royalty's keen condiment!
Therefore uninjured and unprofited,
(Victims at once and executioners)
The congregated husbandmen lay waste
The vineyard and the harvest. As along
The Bothnic coast, or southward of the Line,
Though hushed the winds and cloudless the high noon,
Yet if Leviathan, weary of ease,
In sports unwieldy toss his island-bulk,
Ocean behind him billows, and before
A storm of waves breaks foamy on the strand.
And hence, for times and seasons bloody and dark,
Short Peace shall skin the wounds of causeless War,
And War, his strained sinews knit anew,
Still violate the unfinished works of Peace.
But yonder look! for more demands thy view!'
He said: and straightway from the opposite Isle
A vapour sailed, as when a cloud, exhaled
From Egypt's fields that steam hot pestilence,
Travels the sky for many a trackless league,
Till o'er some death-doomed land, distant in vain,
It broods incumbent. Forthwith from the plain,
Facing the Isle, a brighter cloud arose,
And steered its course which way the vapour went.
The Maiden paused, musing what this might mean.
But long time passed not, ere that brighter cloud
Returned more bright; along the plain it swept;
And soon from forth its bursting sides emerged
A dazzling form, broad-bosomed, bold of eye,
And wild her hair, save where with laurels bound.
Not more majestic stood the healing God,
When from his bow the arrow sped that slew
Huge Python. Shriek'd Ambition's giant throng,
And with them hissed the locust-fiends that crawled
And glittered in Corruption's slimy track.
Great was their wrath, for short they knew their reign;
And such commotion made they, and uproar,
As when the mad tornado bellows through
The guilty islands of the western main,
What time departing from their native shores,
Eboe, or Koromantyn's plain of palms,
The infurate spirits of the murdered make
Fierce merriment, and vengeance ask of Heaven.
Warmed with new influence, the unwholesome plain
Sent up its foulest fogs to meet the morn:
The Sun that rose on Freedom, rose in blood!
'Maiden beloved, and Delegate of Heaven!
(To her the tutelary Spirit said)
Soon shall the morning struggle into day,
The stormy morning into cloudless noon.
Much hast thou seen, nor all canst understand --
But this be thy best omen -- Save thy Country!'
Thus saying, from the answering Maid he passed,
And with him disappeared the heavenly Vision.
'Glory to Thee, Father of Earth and Heaven!
All conscious presence of the Universe!
Nature's vast ever-acting energy!
In will, in deed, impulse of All to All!
Whether thy Love with unrefracted ray
Beam on the Prophet's purged eye, or if
Diseasing realms the enthusiast, wild of thought,
Scatter new frenzies on the infected throng,
Thou both inspiring and predooming both,
Fit instruments and best, of perfect end:
Glory to Thee, Father of Earth and Heaven!'
And first a landscape rose
More wild and waste and desolate than where
The white bear, drifting on a field of ice,
Howls to her sundered cubs with piteous rage
And savage agony.
When we saw for the first time,
Just knowing him as a kinsman
Was just yearning to find out,
Who this handsome lad was,
So asked my beloved sister,
And she nodded with a pretty smile.
When we met for the first time,
Talking with care and affection,
Feeling of sincerity in his wordings,
That poured from his true heart,
Was able to enjoy it to the best,
Indeed it was a memorable day…
We exchanged friendly letters,
And kept good communication,
Likes and dislike all well written
In his bold and legible handwriting,
Liked him more for what he was,
And thus we became close….
After long eight months we met again,
Eagerly waiting to see his smiling face,
Wanting to hear his heart throbbing voice,
A sweet feeling of getting closer,
Cherished those lovely moments,
Wished the day would never end….
Lovely late evening he came beside,
Just handed me a small piece of paper,
In a simple way his wish was conveyed,
No words to describe my happiness,
Felt as though I was in heaven,
Life has given me the best partner...
In the liquid vault of ether hung the starry gems of light,
Blazing with unwonted splendor on the ebon brow of night;
Far across the arching concave like a train of silver lay,
Nebulous, and white, and dreamy, heaven's star-wrought Milky Way.
I was gazing, gazing upward, all my senses captive fraught,
From the earnest contemplation of celestial glories caught,
When the thought arose within me, as the ages onward roll
What may be th' eternal portion of the vast, th' immortal soul?
When the crimson tide of Nature ceases from its ruddy flow,
And these decaying bodies mouldering are so cold and low,
And the loathsome grave-worm feeding on the still and pulseless
heart,
Where may be the immortal spirit, what may be its deathless part?
Deep and far within the ether stretched my eyes their anxious gaze,
While the swelling thoughts within me grew a wild and wildered maze,
Then came floating on the distance, softly to my listening ears,
Low, thrilling harmonies of worlds whirling in their bright spheres.
From the sparkling orb of Venus, sweetest star that gems the blue,
Soon a form of seraph beauty burst upon my raptured view;
Wavy robes were floating round her, and her richly-clustering hair
Lay like golden-wreathed moonbeams round her forehead young and fair.
Then a company of seraphs gathered round this form so bright,
And unfurled their snowy pinions in those realms of crystal light,
Sweeping swiftly onward, onward with their music-breathing wings,
Till they passed the distant orbit where the mighty Neptune swings.
Then from stormy, wild Orion, to the dragon's fiery roll,
And the sturdy Ursa Major tramping round the Boreal pole,
On to stately Argo Navis rearing diamond spars on high,
Starry bands of seraph wanderers clove the azure of the sky.
Lofty awe and adoration all my throbbing bosom filled,
Every pulse and nerve in nature with ecstatic wonder thrilled.
O, were these bright, shining millions disembodied human souls,
That casting off earth's fettering bonds had gained immortal goals!
On each face there beamed a brightness mortal words can ne'er
rehearse,
Seemed it the concentred glory of the boundless universe.
O, 'twas light, 'twas love, 'twas wisdom, science, knowledge, all
combined,
'Twas the ultimate perfection of the God-like human mind!
One by one the constellations sank below the horizon's rim,
And with grief I found my starry vision growing earthly dim;
While all the thrilling harmonies, that filled the air around,
Died off in far, sweet echoings, within the dark profound.
Bowing then with lowly seeming on the damp and dewy sod,
All my soul in adoration floated up to Nature's God,
While the struggling thoughts within me found voice in earnest
prayer;
'Almighty Father, let my soul one day those glories share!'
This was not our destiny, that union with the beloved would take place.
If we had kept on living longer, then would have been kept waiting
If I lived on your promise, then know this that I knew it to be false
For would I not have died of happiness, if I had had trust [in it]?
From your delicacy I knew that the vow had been bound loosely
You could never have broken it, if it had been firm
Let someone ask my heart about your half-drawn arrow
Where would this anxiety/ pain have come from, if it had gone through the liver?
What kind of friendship is this, that friends have become Advisors?
If someone had been a healer, if someone had been a sympathizer!
From the rock-vein would drip that blood which would never have stopped
If this which you are considering 'grief' this were just a spark
Although grief is life-threatening, how would we escape, while there is a heart?
If there were not the grief of passion, there would be the grief of livelihood
To whom might I say what it is- the night of sadness is a bad disaster!
Why would I have minded dying, if it took place one time?
Since upon having died, I became disgraced- why were I not drowned in the ocean?
Neither a funeral procession would ever been formed, nor would there anywhere be a tomb
Who can see him? for that Oneness is unique
If there were even a whiff of twoness, then somehow [He] would be two or four
These problems of mysticism! this discourse of yours, Ghalib!
We would consider you a saint- if you weren't a wine-drinker.
163
Tho' my destiny be Fustian—
Hers be damask fine—
Tho' she wear a silver apron—
I, a less divine—
Still, my little Gypsy being
I would far prefer,
Still, my little sunburnt bosom
To her Rosier,
For, when Frosts, their punctual fingers
On her forehead lay,
You and I, and Dr. Holland,
Bloom Eternally!
Roses of a steadfast summer
In a steadfast land,
Where no Autumn lifts her pencil—
And no Reapers stand!
Though many may see it in a different way
'Tis destiny in our lives that does have the say
Our life journey our journey to destiny
To fame and to riches and to poverty.
'Tis a fact that the greatest are mortals and facts never lie
And from the day we are born to the day that we die
Destiny on our lives a huge part does play
'Tis destiny decided that I pen this today.
Many who believe in life choices will tell you that your life journey you decide
Those who ignore that you need to have luck on your side
They see your station in life as of your making not of circumstance
And they scoff at any mention of destiny or chance.
The town's wealthiest person in his fiftieth year was buried today
'Twas cancer he died of in a slow painful way
This was not of his choice of that most would agree
A slow painful death part of his life's destiny.
And when the clock struck twelve midnight,
Fourteenth, august, forty-seven,
An Asian nation turned awake,
While world slept on in slumber deep!
A hundred years of freedom fight
Came to a grinding halt that night,
As Pandit Nehru gave his speech,
‘Tryst with destiny’ with reach!
India awoke to freedom life,
Despite a hundred years of strife,
And took a pledge anew to stay
A nation, free with peace each day!
That moment was so rare indeed;
A nation’s soul was stirred to lead,
And show the world its powerful seed,
As nations totally paid heed.
India’s history thus saw a dawn:
A struggle great ended that morn,
As success finally newborn,
Did Motherland with pride adorn.
With freedom came newer duties;
The failures of the past did cease;
The country was given new lease –
A cure for this strange a disease!
The nation was a sovereign state,
On that magical hour and date;
As leaders vowed to change the fate
Of Indian people’s long a wait.
A star of freedom rose in east,
Heralding celebration, feast;
A hope anew was born that day,
To never cease, oh, come what may!
The star would never set at all –
The Nation’s Father’s clarion call,
The architect of freedom’s hall,
Was Gandhiji (Bapu) , man tall!
He held the torch of freedom high;
Many freedom fighters did die;
And many people heaved a sigh;
As democracy stood too nigh!
‘Jai Hind! Jai Bharat! ’
Copyright by Dr John Celes 8-06-2010
It is destiny! !
What is my destiny?
What is your destiny?
Can it be changed at all?
Or is it another hallucination
A figment of our imagination,
of what life should hold in stock for us
If destiny would walk our paths
I would say to destiny
Why have you come all this way, just to lead us astray?
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
It is the destiny in winter.
There are some thoughts that when spoken take on change.
They can become something different when uttered aloud,
moreover their power increases.
Better then keep them unsaid, and seam them away
into the folds of the mind.
That way is kinder to our survival as patient waiters for fate's call.
When held closely, feelings retain all the magical colours we need.
They most willingly perform  lifting of pain soaked hearts, but
must be preserved only as dreams.
Change them to plans and they soon damn us.
Without vision we are nothing but victims of fate.
Take then a rainbowing archway
of picture-paste dreaming,
paint and plaster it over the heart, and leave it,
a footprint appears as it eats its way in,
marking an easing of pain entrenched in the soul.
But the hurt of lost dreams has a bite filled with venom,
which swirls unmercifully with  force of a hurricane.
When we realize finally hope is  gone
and search unremittingly to unearth it again,
all we may find is piercing pain,
which demands we leave and move on.
Keep imagery clear and see it  alive, but as yet unspoken,
fill it with hope, bring it out nightly, re-dream it,
then burnlish it brightly.
This treasure alone is ours, and has its own beauty
which feeds us while awaiting the real.
Without destiny life seems unfair, barely endurable
and the future looks empty indeed.
Let us guard then our daily dreaming.
Wounded by destiny, I struggle,
For a life, I thought never existed,
A life without his touch,
A life without his shine,
A life without his love,
A life that was never mine
Stabbed by the truth of his death, I breath,
An air devoid of that fragrance,
Fragrance of trust, so scattered,
Fragrance of loyalty that mattered,
Fragrance of faith, so divine,
Fragrance of love, you were never mine
Strangled by his thoughts, I died,
In the shades of his memories,
Memories of the way he loved me,
Memories of the way he cared,
Memories of the times I cried,
Memories of the promises we made
On a sunny brae, alone I lay
One summer afternoon;
It was the marriage-time of May
With her young lover, June.
From her mother's heart, seemed loath to part
That queen of bridal charms,
But her father smiled on the fairest child
He ever held in his arms.
The trees did wave their plumy crests,
The glad birds caroled clear;
And I, of all the wedding guests,
Was only sullen there!
There was not one, but wished to shun
My aspect void of cheer;
The very grey rocks, looking on,
Asked, "What do you here?"
And I could utter no reply;
In sooth, I did not know
Why I had brought a clouded eye
To greet the general glow.
So, resting on a heathy bank,
I took my heart to me;
And we together sadly sank
Into a reverie.
We thought, "When winter comes again,
Where will these bright things be?
All vanished, like a vision vain,
An unreal mockery!
The birds that now so blithely sing,
Through deserts, frozen dry,
Poor spectres of the perished spring,
In famished troops, will fly.
And why should we be glad at all?
The leaf is hardly green,
Before a token of its fall
Is on the surface seen!"
Now, whether it were really so,
I never could be sure;
But as in fit of peevish woe,
I stretched me on the moor.
A thousand thousand gleaming fires
Seemed kindling in the air;
A thousand thousand silvery lyres
Resounded far and near:
Methought, the very breath I breathed
Was full of sparks divine,
And all my heather-couch was wreathed
By that celestial shine!
And, while the wide earth echoing rung
To their strange minstrelsy,
The little glittering spirits sung,
Or seemed to sing, to me.
"O mortal! mortal! let them die;
Let time and tears destroy,
That we may overflow the sky
With universal joy!
Let grief distract the sufferer's breast,
And night obscure his way;
They hasten him to endless rest,
And everlasting day.
To thee the world is like a tomb,
A desert's naked shore;
To us, in unimagined bloom,
It brightens more and more!
And could we lift the veil, and give
One brief glimpse to thine eye,
Thou wouldst rejoice for those that live,
Because they live to die."
The music ceased; the noonday dream,
Like dream of night, withdrew;
But Fancy, still, will sometimes deem
Her fond creation true.
A dream, A dream,
another dream.
A dream of you,
A dream of love,
A dream of you and me,
we had such chemistry,
If only you could see.
A dream we danced in the moonlight,
A dream we made love til the mornings bright light,
A dream, A dream,
Where my true feeling burst,
A dream, A dream
Makes me feel more hurt.
A dream, A dream,
of true love,
over and over,
over and over,
A dream, A dream
where we are together,
A dream, A dream,
why can't it be real,
A dream, A dream,
where really connect,
A dream, A dream
that I can't reject,
A dream, A dream,
and another dream,
Why can't it be real?
Why can't you love me?
Even in my wildest of dreams
I never dreamt a dream in dream
as much I lived a life as life.
A churned up dream with life is life;
thicker than dream; thinner than life.
It's life like dream half blur, half clear
and dreams solid and palpable.
Not life, rock-like reality
nor dream like fog, obscurity.
Oft dreams ornate like the Sun
donning the bright chaplet of light
and too often dreadful like the gloom
of agitating inner sin.
It's life like dream half blur, half clear
and dreams solid and palpable.
Lo life, a swim in reverie main.
In trance flapping the limbs we wade
through swirling waves of vague pictures
of fleeting world, presumed as true.
It's life like dream half blur, half clear
and dreams solid and palpable.
It's all mind-made, emotions jelled.
In solitude we feel around
a millions' scary raw din
and while amongst a myriad souls;
alone, distressed, depressed and sad.
It's life like dream half blur, half clear
and dreams solid and palpable.
Like sharks wile thoughts nibble
Like whales with yawning mouths, fears gulp
Some joys flicker, few hues shimmer
It's life like dream half blur, half clear
and dreams solid and palpable.
A dream is a dream.
Some dreams can come true,
and some cannot.
How you attempt to achieve that goal,
your dream, it is up to you.
A dream is a dream.
Some are based on things that have happened.
Some are what you wish to happen.
We've all heard the song, 'A Dream is a Wish Your Heart Makes.'
That is true.
A dream is a dream.
It can come true if you just believe.
Believe in your heart,
Believe in your soul,
Believe that you CAN achieve your goal.
And that dream WILL come true.
A dream is a dream.
A dream lies dead here. May you softly go
Before this place, and turn away your eyes,
Nor seek to know the look of that which dies
Importuning Life for life. Walk not in woe,
But, for a little, let your step be slow.
And, of your mercy, be not sweetly wise
With words of hope and Spring and tenderer skies.
A dream lies dead; and this all mourners know:
Whenever one drifted petal leaves the tree-
Though white of bloom as it had been before
And proudly waitful of fecundity-
One little loveliness can be no more;
And so must Beauty bow her imperfect head
Because a dream has joined the wistful dead!
C.K. loquitur.
I dreamed I was in fair Niphon.
Amid tea-fields I journeyed on,
Reclined in my jinrikishaw;
Across the rolling plains I saw
The lordly Fusi-yama rise,
His blue cone lost in bluer skies.
At last I bade my bearers stop
Before what seemed a china-shop.
I roused myself and entered in.
A fearful joy, like some sweet sin,
Pierced through my bosom as I gazed,
Entranced, transported, and amazed.
For all the house was but one room,
And in its clear and grateful gloom,
Filled with all odors strange and strong
That to the wondrous East belong,
I saw above, around, below,
A sight to make the warm heart glow,
And leave the eager soul no lack,-
An endless wealth of bric-a-brac.
I saw bronze statues, old and rare,
Fashioned by no mere mortal skill,
With robes that fluttered in the air,
Blown out by Art's eternal will;
And delicate ivory netsukes,
Richer in tone than Cheddar cheese,
Of saints and hermits, cats and dogs,
Grim warriors and ecstatic frogs.
And here and there those wondrous masks,
More living flesh than sandal-wood,
Where the full soul in pleasure basks
And dreams of love, the only good.
The walls were all with pictures hung:
Gay villas bright in rain-washed air,
Trees to whose boughs brown monkeys clung,
Outlineless dabs of fuzzy hair.
And all about the opulent shelves
Littered with porcelain beyond price:
Imari pots arrayed themselves
Beside Ming dishes; grain-of-rice
Vied with the Royal Satsuma,
Proud of its sallow ivory beam;
And Kaga's Thousand Hermits lay
Tranced in some punch-bowl's golden gleam.
Over bronze censers, black with age,
The five-clawed dragons strife engage;
A curled and insolent Dog of Foo
Sniffs at the smoke aspiring through.
In what old days, in what far lands,
What busy brains, what cunning hands,
With what quaint speech, what alien thought,
Strange fellow-men these marvels wrought!
As thus I mused, I was aware
There grew before my eager eyes
A little maid too bright and fair,
Too strangely lovely for surprise.
It seemed the beauty of the place
Had suddenly become concrete,
So full was she of Orient grace,
From her slant eyes and burnished face
Down to her little gold-bronze feet.
She was a girl of old Japan;
Her small hand held a glided fan,
Which scattered fragrance through the room;
Her cheek was rich with pallid bloom,
Her eye was dark with languid fire,
Her red lips breathed a vague desire;
Her teeth, of pearl inviolate,
Sweetly proclaimed her maiden state.
Her garb was stiff with broidered gold
Twined with mysterious fold on fold,
That gave no hint where, hidden well,
Her dainty form might warmly dwell,
A pearl within too large a shell.
So quaint, so short, so lissome, she,
It seemed as if it well might be
Some jocose god, with sportive whirl,
Had taken up a long lithe girl
And tied a graceful knot in her.
I tried to speak, and found, oh, bliss!
I needed no interpreter;
I knew the Japanese for kiss,
I had no other thought but this;
And she, with smile and blush divine,
Kind to my stammering prayer did seem;
My thought was hers, and hers was mine,
In the swift logic of my dream.
My arms clung round her slender waist,
Through gold and silk the form I traced,
And glad as rain that follows drouth,
I kissed and kissed her bright red mouth.
What ailed the girl? No loving sigh
Heaved the round bosom; in her eye
Trembled no tear; from her dear throat
Bubbled a sweet and silvery note
Of girlish laughter, shrill and clear,
That all the statues seemed to hear
The bronzes tinkled laughter fine;
I heard a chuckle argentine
Ring from the silver images;
Even the ivory netsukes
Uttered in every silent pause
Dry, bony laughs from tiny jaws;
The painted monkeys on the wall
Waked up with chatter impudent;
Pottery, porcelain, bronze, and all
Broke out in ghostly merriment,
Faint as rain pattering on dry leaves,
Or cricket's chirp on summer eves.
And suddenly upon my sight
There grew a portent: left and right,
On every side, as if the air
Had taken substance then and there,
In every sort of form and face,
A throng of tourists filled the place.
I saw a Frenchman's sneering shrug;
A German countess, in one hand
A sky-blue string which held a pug,
With the other a fiery face she fanned;
A Yankee with a soft felt hat;
A Coptic priest from Ararat;
An English girl with cheeks of rose;
A Nihilist with Socratic nose;
Paddy from Cork with baggage light
And pockets stuffed with dynamite;
A haughty Southern Readjuster
Wrapped in his pride and linen duster;
Two noisy New York stock-brokérs
And twenty British globe-trottérs.
To my disgust and vast surprise
They turned on me lack-lustre eyes,
And each with dropped and wagging jaw
Burst out into a wild guffaw:
They laughed with huge mouths opened wide;
They roared till each one held his side;
They screamed and writhed with brutal glee,
With fingers rudely stretched to me,-
Till lo! at once the laughter died,
The tourists faded into air;
None but my fair maid lingered there,
Who stood demurely by my side.
"Who were your friends?" I asked the maid,
Taking a tea-cup from its shelf.
"This audience is disclosed," she said,
"Whenever a man makes a fool of himself."
I DREAMED that one had died in a strange place
Near no accustomed hand,
And they had nailed the boards above her face,
The peasants of that land,
Wondering to lay her in that solitude,
And raised above her mound
A cross they had made out of two bits of wood,
And planted cypress round;
And left her to the indifferent stars above
Until I carved these words:
i{She was more beautiful than thy first love,}
i{But now lies under boards.}
fox
who
can blame her for hunkering
into the doorwells at night,
the only blaze in the dark
the brush of her hopeful tail,
the only starlight
her little bared teeth?
and when she is not satisfied
who can blame her for refusing to leave,
Master Of The Hunt, why am i
not feeding, not being fed?
the coming of fox
one evening i return
to a red fox
haunched by my door.
i am afraid
although she knows
no enemy comes here.
next night again
then next then next
she sits in her safe shadow
silent as my skin bleeds
into long bright flags
of fur.
dear fox
it is not my habit
to squat in the hungry desert
fingering stones, begging them
to heal, not me but the dry morninngs
and bitter nights.
it is not your habit
to watch, none of this
is ourrs, sister fox.
tell yourself that anytime now
we will rise and walk away
from somebody else's life.
any time.
leaving fox
so many fuckless days and nights
only the solitary fox
watching my window light
barks her compassion.
i move away from her eyes.
from the pitying brush
of her tail
to a new place and check
for signs. so far
i am the only animal.
i will keep the door unlocked
until something human comes.
one year later
what if,
then,
entering my room,
brushing against the shadows,
lapping them into rust,
her soft paw extended,
she had called me out?
what if,
then,
i had reared up baying,
and followed her off
into vixen country?
what then of the moon,
the room, the bed, the poetry
of regret?
a dream of foxes
in the dream of foxes
there is a field
and a procession of women
clean as good children
no hollow in the world
surrounded by dogs
no fur clumped bloody
on the ground
only a lovely line
of honest women stepping
without fear or guilt or shame
safe through the generous fields.
Twenty-eight naked young women bathed by the shore
Or near the bank of a woodland lake
Twenty-eight girls and all of them comely
Worthy of Mack Sennett's camera and Florenz Ziegfield's
Foolish Follies.
They splashed and swam with the wondrous unconsciousness
Of their youth and beauty
In the full spontaneity and summer of the fieshes of
awareness
Heightened, intensified and softened
By the soft and the silk of the waters
Blooded made ready by the energy set afire by the
nakedness of the body,
Electrified: deified: undenied.
A young man of thirty years beholds them from a distance.
He lives in the dungeon of ten million dollars.
He is rich, handsome and empty standing behind the linen curtains
Beholding them.
Which girl does he think most desirable, most beautiful?
They are all equally beautiful and desirable from the gold distance.
For if poverty darkens discrimination and makes
perception too vivid,
The gold of wealth is also a form of blindness.
For has not a Frenchman said, Although this is America...
What he has said is not entirely relevant,
That a naked woman is a proof of the existence of God.
Where is he going?
Is he going to be among them to splash and to laugh with them?
They did not see him although he saw them and was there among them.
He saw them as he would not have seen them had they been conscious
Of him or conscious of men in complete depravation:
This is his enchantment and impoverishment
As he possesses them in gaze only.
. . .He felt the wood secrecy, he knew the June softness
The warmth surrounding him crackled
Held in by the mansard roof mansion
He glimpsed the shadowy light on last year's brittle leaves fallen,
Looked over and overlooked, glimpsed by the fall of death,
Winter's mourning and the May's renewal.
I had withdrawn in forest, and my song
Was swallowed up in leaves that blew alway;
And to the forest edge you came one day
(This was my dream) and looked and pondered long,
But did not enter, though the wish was strong:
You shook your pensive head as who should say,
‘I dare not—too far in his footsteps stray—
He must seek me would he undo the wrong.
Not far, but near, I stood and saw it all
Behind low boughs the trees let down outside;
And the sweet pang it cost me not to call
And tell you that I saw does still abide.
But ’tis not true that thus I dwelt aloof,
For the wood wakes, and you are here for proof.
In visions of the dark night
I have dreamed of joy departed-
But a waking dream of life and light
Hath left me broken-hearted.
Ah! what is not a dream by day
To him whose eyes are cast
On things around him with a ray
Turned back upon the past?
That holy dream- that holy dream,
While all the world were chiding,
Hath cheered me as a lovely beam
A lonely spirit guiding.
What though that light, thro' storm and night,
So trembled from afar-
What could there be more purely bright
In Truth's day-star?
I dreamed that I ws dead and crossed the heavens,--
Heavens after heavens with burning feet and swift,--
And cried: "O God, where art Thou?" I left one
On earth, whose burden I would pray Thee lift."
I was so dead I wondered at no thing,--
Not even that the angels slowly turned
Their faces, speechless, as I hurried by
(Beneath my feet the golden pavements burned);
Nor, at the first, that I could not find God,
Because the heavens stretched endlessly like space.
At last a terror siezed my very soul;
I seemed alone in all the crowded place.
Then, sudden, one compassionate cried out,
Though like the rest his face from me he turned,
As I were one no angel might regard
(Beneath my feet the golden pavements burned):
"No moew in heaven than earth will he find God
Who does not know his loving mercy swift
But waits the moment consummate and ripe,
Each burden, from each human soul to lift."
Though I was dead, I died again for shame;
Lonely, to flee from heaven again I turned;
The ranks of angels looked away from me
(Beneath my feet the golden pavements burned).
Only a dream, a beautiful baseless dream;
Only a bright
Flash from your eyes, a brief electrical gleam,
Charged with delight.
Only a waking, alone, in the moon's last gleam
Fading from sight;
Only a flooding of tears that shudder and stream
Fast through the night.
I heard the dogs howl in the moonlight night;
I went to the window to see the sight;
All the Dead that ever I knew
Going one by one and two by two.
On they pass'd, and on they pass'd;
Townsfellows all, from first to last;
Born in the moonlight of the lane,
Quench'd in the heavy shadow again.
Schoolmates, marching as when they play'd
At soldiers once - but now more staid;
Those were the strangest sight to me
Who were drown'd, I knew, in the awful sea.
Straight and handsome folk, bent and weak, too;
Some that I loved, and gasp'd to speak to;
Some but a day in their churchyard bed;
Some that I had not known were dead.
A long, long crowd - where each seem'd lonely,
Yet of them all there was one, one only,
Raised a head or look'd my way;
She linger'd a moment - she might not stay.
How long since I saw that fair pale face!
Ah! Mother dear! might I only place
My head on thy breast, a moment to rest,
While thy hand on my tearful cheek were prest!
On, on, a moving bridge they made
Across the moon-stream, from shade to shade,
Young and old, women and men;
Many long-forgot, but remembered then,
And first there came a bitter laughter;
A sound of tears a moment after;
And then a music so lofty and gay,
That eve morning, day by day,
I strive to recall it if I may.
Once a dream did weave a shade
O'er my angel-guarded bed,
That an emmet lost its way
Where on grass methought I lay.
Troubled, wildered, and forlorn,
Dark, benighted, travel-worn,
Over many a tangle spray,
All heart-broke, I heard her say:
'Oh my children! do they cry,
Do they hear their father sigh?
Now they look abroad to see,
Now return and weep for me.'
Pitying, I dropped a tear:
But I saw a glow-worm near,
Who replied, 'What wailing wight
Calls the watchman of the night?
'I am set to light the ground,
While the beetle goes his round:
Follow now the beetle's hum;
Little wanderer, hie thee home! '
Just yesterday morning, it was no item
between heart and dripping eyes,
to understand slowly confusion, entire world
is running by. In the darkness crossing a big city, where
single step will going ahead,
It was the sin of our frustrations, inviting
a self image with each temptation.
Don't know where to go just going true
Trying to found a place, that fill me up with peace.
Just before sunshine brightup with heat
A beautiful scenic view it was a point. that
it wasn't in my mind, will sharp noises of the water
and deep blue from the ocean, with horizon of skylight...
like sweet singing behind waves and rocks!... No,
it wasn't a rock, or a wave, it was a image
walking over those waves. with a mixture for
automatic description brighten up my mind,
an old writers must to follow.
it was short but clear and pure
every word for understanding.
like portions of small water falls,
Never before in peaceful run my mind,
when trying to clean my dripping eyes,
may the emotion, or the difference pure voice cure my peace.
Saying who you thank will be sad for you?
I know it all and stop your crying...
Will bright sunshine come out from behind
to make me blind instants and like the course
of small creak the pure voice slowly was going away.
Saying step step follow my foot prints.
Take this upon thy brow!
And, parting from you now,
Thus much let me avow-
You are not wrong, to deem
That my days have been a dream;
Yet if hope has flown away
In a night, or in a day,
In a vision, or in none
Is it therefore the less gone?
All that we see or seem
Is but a dream within a dream.
I stand amid the roar
Of a surf-tormented shore,
And hold within my hand
Grains of the golden sand-
How few! yet how they creep
Through my fingers to the deep,
While I weep- while I weep!
Oh God! can I not grasp
Them with a tighter clasp?
Oh God! can i now save
One from the pitiless wave?
Is all that we see or seem
But a dream within a dream?
Yet if hope has flown away
In a night, or in a day,
In a vision, or in none,
Is it therefore the less gone?
All that we see or seem
Is but a dream within a dream
A dream within a dream,
So lonely in the winter still;
Wishes going into the air stream,
To never again to fulfil.
A dream within loneliness,
The moments we once had;
The day is now flowerless,
Down this entire winter pad.
A dream within a stone,
So hard and cold of all;
The feeling when we are alone,
A day or two of appal.
A dream within the past,
From nights that were before;
The thoughts that didn't last,
And therefore are no more.
A dream within a reach,
That once was staying here;
And nothing left to teach,
Or nothing gave to share.
A dream within a thought,
That we once knew of some;
But time moved on or bought,
And never again is to come.
Take this kiss upon the brow!
And, in parting from you now,
Thus much let me avow-
You are not wrong, who deem
That my days have been a dream;
Yet if hope has flown away
In a night, or in a day,
In a vision, or in none,
Is it therefore the less gone?
All that we see or seem
Is but a dream within a dream.
I stand amid the roar
Of a surf-tormented shore,
And I hold within my hand
Grains of the golden sand-
How few! yet how they creep
Through my fingers to the deep,
While I weep- while I weep!
O God! can I not grasp
Them with a tighter clasp?
O God! can I not save
One from the pitiless wave?
Is all that we see or seem
But a dream within a dream?
as i close my eyes
a blackhole looms
this inner  world
a torment it brings
how far does it goes
each night as i sleep
where do i journey to
this dark realm
which for forty-five years
i have travelled each night
never reaching any place
sometimes it throws a dream
a dream where i am
but somebody different from i am
talking like an indian
sometimes it throws a dream
a dream where mom
keeps so quiet
in a never seen house
so much grander
yes, as i live on
i travel each night
in a black hoe
ticking away to a foreign land
year after year
a land which i could not grasp
but accept it with each of my breath
time keeps ticking away
each second, a second
nearer to the day of death
where perhaps i would continue
in this journey in the blackhoe
and perhaps find light in it
in two worlds
i travel, consciously
and subconsciously
in a ship that i control
and being controlled
the master and also the slave
i look into the night sky
and realise that
in this trip i am but
an observer of
a real world and imagined
a film where i partake
each day with no known script
i consider myself the greatest actor in this case
enacting each scene
with a full heart and soul
pain and all
perhaps somewhere out there
someone out there
is enjoying it all
the fact that i control as well as
is controlled by my own life, cells....
As the Night begins to slumber,
And most dreams start to awake,
I do softly sigh and wonder,
If true love is really great.
I have dreamt of your sweet coming,
Of us drifting in Love's Lake,
Like two Swan's in love's pure splendor,
But you're gone when I awake.
In Poe's dark forbidding night
When there can be no sight
Of the dangers lurking near
Of which there is much to fear.
But in the inner peace of Poe
With the scratch of pen, his words flow
Capturing his tortured thoughts in kind
A parable, to escape the world that binds,
To set him free to dream
Of that which is not as seem.
As he awaits the judgement day.
To and fro, to and fro
In my little boat I go
Sailing far across the sea
All alone, just little me.
And the sea is big and strong
And the journey very long.
To and fro, to and fro
In my little boat I go.
Sea and sky, sea and sky,
Quietly on the deck I lie,
Having just a little rest.
I have really done my best
In an awful pirate fight,
But we cdaptured them all right.
Sea and sky, sea and sky,
Quietly on the deck I lie--
Far away, far away
From my home and from my play,
On a journey without end
Only with the sea for friend
And the fishes in the sea.
But they swim away from me
Far away, far away
From my home and from my play.
Then he cried "O Mother dear."
And he woke and sat upright,
They were in the rocking chair,
Mother's arms around him--tight.
1
white curtains of infinite fatigue
dominating the starborn heritage of the colonies of St Francis
white curtains of tortured destinies
inheriting the calamities of the plagues
of the desert encourage the waistlines of women to expand
and the eyes of men to enlarge like pocket-cameras
teach children to sin at the age of five
to cut out the eyes of their sisters with nail-scissors
to run into the streets and offer themselves to unfrocked priests
teach insects to invade the deathbeds of rich spinsters
and to engrave the foreheads of their footmen with purple signs
for the year is open the year is complete
the year is full of unforeseen happenings
and the time of earthquakes is at hand
today is the day when the streets are full of hearses
and when women cover their ring fingers with pieces of silk
when the doors fall off their hinges in ruined cathedrals
when hosts of white birds fly across the ocean from america
and make their nests in the trees of public gardens
the pavements of cities are covered with needles
the reservoirs are full of human hair
fumes of sulphur envelop the houses of ill-fame
out of which bloodred lilies appear.
2
across the square where crowds are dying in thousands
a man is walking a tightrope covered with moths
there is an explosion of geraniums in the ballroom of the hotel
there is an extremely unpleasant odour of decaying meat
arising from the depetalled flower growing out of her ear
her arms are like pieces of sandpaper
or wings of leprous birds in taxis
and when she sings her hair stands on end
and lights itself with a million little lamps like glowworms
you must always write the last two letters of her christian name
upside down with a blue pencil
she was standing at the window clothed only in a ribbon
she was burning the eyes of snails in a candle
she was eating the excrement of dogs and horses
she was writing a letter to the president of france
3
the edges of leaves must be examined through microscopes
in order to see the stains made by dying flies
at the other end of the tube is a woman bathing her husband
and a box of newspapers covered with handwriting
when an angel writes the word TOBACCO across the sky
the sea becomes covered with patches of dandruff
the trunks of trees burst open to release streams of milk
little girls stick photographs of genitals to the windows of their homes
prayerbooks in churches open themselves at the death service
and virgins cover their parents' beds with tealeaves
there is an extraordinary epidemic of tuberculosis in yorkshire
where medical dictionaries are banned from the public libraries
and salt turns a pale violet colour every day at seven o'clock
when the hearts of troubadours unfold like soaked mattresses
when the leaven of the gruesome slum-visitors
and the wings of private airplanes look like shoeleather
shoeleather on which pentagrams have been drawn
shoeleather covered with vomitings of hedgehogs
shoeleather used for decorating wedding-cakes
and the gums of queens like glass marbles
queens whose wrists are chained to the walls of houses
and whose fingernails are covered with little drawings of flowers
we rejoice to receive the blessing of criminals
and we illuminate the roofs of convents when they are hung
we look through a telescope on which the lord's prayer has been written
and we see an old woman making a scarecrow
on a mountain near a village in the middle of spain
we see an elephant killing a stag-beetle
by letting hot tears fall onto the small of its back
we see a large cocoa-tin full of shapeless lumps of wax
there is a horrible dentist walking out of a ship's funnel
and leaving behind him footsteps which make noises
on account of his accent he was discharged from the sanatorium
and sent to examine the methods of cannibals
so that wreaths of passion-flowers were floating in the darkness
giving terrible illnesses to the possessors of pistols
so that large quantities of rats disguised as pigeons
were sold to various customers from neighbouring towns
who were adepts at painting gothic letters on screens
and at tying up parcels with pieces of grass
we told them to cut off the buttons on their trousers
but they swore in our faces and took off their shoes
whereupon the whole place was stifled with vast clouds of smoke
and with theatres and eggshells and droppings of eagles
and the drums of the hospitals were broken like glass
and glass were the faces in the last looking-glass.
Many decades after graduation
the students sneak back onto
the school-grounds at night
and within the pane-lit windows
catch me their teacher at the desk
or blackboard cradling a chalk:
someone has erased their youth,
and as they crouch closer to see
more it grows darker and quieter
than they have known in their lives,
the lesson never learned surrounds
them; why have they come? Is
there any more to memorize now
at the end than there was then"
What is it they peer at through shades
of time to hear, X times X repeated,
my vain efforts to corner a room's
snickers? Do they mock me? Forever?
Out there my past has risen in
the eyes of all my former pupils but
I wonder if behind them others
younger and younger stretch away
to a world where dawn will never
ring its end, its commencement bell.
Somno mollior unda
I
Dawn is dim on the dark soft water,
Soft and passionate, dark and sweet.
Love's own self was the deep sea's daughter,
Fair and flawless from face to feet,
Hailed of all when the world was golden,
Loved of lovers whose names beholden
Thrill men's eyes as with light of olden
Days more glad than their flight was fleet.
So they sang: but for men that love her,
Souls that hear not her word in vain,
Earth beside her and heaven above her
Seem but shadows that wax and wane.
Softer than sleep's are the sea's caresses,
Kinder than love's that betrays and blesses,
Blither than spring's when her flowerful tresses
Shake forth sunlight and shine with rain.
All the strength of the waves that perish
Swells beneath me and laughs and sighs,
Sighs for love of the life they cherish,
Laughs to know that it lives and dies,
Dies for joy of its life, and lives
Thrilled with joy that its brief death gives -
Death whose laugh or whose breath forgives
Change that bids it subside and rise.
II
Hard and heavy, remote but nearing,
Sunless hangs the severe sky's weight,
Cloud on cloud, though the wind be veering
Heaped on high to the sundawn's gate.
Dawn and even and noon are one,
Veiled with vapour and void of sun;
Nought in sight or in fancied hearing
Now less mighty than time or fate.
The grey sky gleams and the grey seas glimmer,
Pale and sweet as a dream's delight,
As a dream's where darkness and light seem dimmer,
Touched by dawn or subdued by night.
The dark wind, stern and sublime and sad,
Swings the rollers to westward, clad
With lustrous shadow that lures the swimmer,
Lures and lulls him with dreams of light.
Light, and sleep, and delight, and wonder,
Change, and rest, and a charm of cloud,
Fill the world of the skies whereunder
Heaves and quivers and pants aloud
All the world of the waters, hoary
Now, but clothed with its own live glory,
That mates the lightning and mocks the thunder
With light more living and word more proud.
III
Far off westward, whither sets the sounding strife,
Strife more sweet than peace, of shoreless waves whose glee
Scorns the shore and loves the wind that leaves them free,
Strange as sleep and pale as death and fair as life,
Shifts the moonlight-coloured sunshine on the sea.
Toward the sunset's goal the sunless waters crowd,
Fast as autumn days toward winter: yet it seems
Here that autumn wanes not, here that woods and streams
Lose not heart and change not likeness, chilled and bowed,
Warped and wrinkled: here the days are fair as dreams.
IV
O russet-robed November,
What ails thee so to smile?
Chill August, pale September,
Endured a woful while,
And fell as falls an ember
From forth a flameless pile:
But golden-girt November
Bids all she looks on smile.
The lustrous foliage, waning
As wanes the morning moon,
Here falling, here refraining,
Outbraves the pride of June
With statelier semblance, feigning
No fear lest death be soon:
As though the woods thus waning
Should wax to meet the moon.
As though, when fields lie stricken
By grey December's breath,
These lordlier growths that sicken
And die for fear of death
Should feel the sense requicken
That hears what springtide saith
And thrills for love, spring-stricken
And pierced with April's breath.
The keen white-winged north-easter
That stings and spurs thy sea
Doth yet but feed and feast her
With glowing sense of glee:
Calm chained her, storm released her,
And storm's glad voice was he:
South-wester or north-easter,
Thy winds rejoice the sea.
V
A dream, a dream is it all -  the season,
The sky, the water, the wind, the shore?
A day-born dream of divine unreason,
A marvel moulded of sleep -  no more?
For the cloudlike wave that my limbs while cleaving
Feel as in slumber beneath them heaving
Soothes the sense as to slumber, leaving
Sense of nought that was known of yore.
A purer passion, a lordlier leisure,
A peace more happy than lives on land,
Fulfils with pulse of diviner pleasure
The dreaming head and the steering hand.
I lean my cheek to the cold grey pillow,
The deep soft swell of the full broad billow,
And close mine eyes for delight past measure,
And wish the wheel of the world would stand.
The wild-winged hour that we fain would capture
Falls as from heaven that its light feet clomb,
So brief, so soft, and so full the rapture
Was felt that soothed me with sense of home.
To sleep, to swim, and to dream, for ever -
Such joy the vision of man saw never;
For here too soon will a dark day sever
The sea-bird's wing from the sea-wave's foam.
A dream, and more than a dream, and dimmer
At once and brighter than dreams that flee,
The moment's joy of the seaward swimmer
Abides, remembered as truth may be.
Not all the joy and not all the glory
Must fade as leaves when the woods wax hoary;
For there the downs and the sea-banks glimmer,
And here to south of them swells the sea.
How neatly a cat sleeps,
sleeps with its paws and its posture,
sleeps with its wicked claws,
and with its unfeeling blood,
sleeps with all the rings-
a series of burnt circles-
which have formed the odd geology
of its sand-colored tail.
I should like to sleep like a cat,
with all the fur of time,
with a tongue rough as flint,
with the dry sex of fire;
and after speaking to no one,
stretch myself over the world,
over roofs and landscapes,
with a passionate desire
to hunt the rats in my dreams.
I have seen how the cat asleep
would undulate, how the night
flowed through it like dark water;
and at times, it was going to fall
or possibly plunge into
the bare deserted snowdrifts.
Sometimes it grew so much in sleep
like a tiger's great-grandfather,
and would leap in the darkness over
rooftops, clouds and volcanoes.
Sleep, sleep cat of the night,
with episcopal ceremony
and your stone-carved moustache.
Take care of all our dreams;
control the obscurity
of our slumbering prowess
with your relentless heart
and the great ruff of your tail.
Translated by Alastair Reid
Cyprian, in my dream
the folds of a purple
kerchief shadowed
your cheeks --- the one
Timas one time sent,
a timid gift, all
the way from Phocaea
Sappho
tr. Barnard
One day people will touch and talk perhaps
easily,
And loving be natural as breathing and warm as
sunlight,
And people will untie themselves, as string is unknotted,
Unfold and yawn and stretch and spread their fingers,
Unfurl, uncurl like seaweed returned to the sea,
And work will be simple and swift
as a seagull flying,
And play will be casual and quiet
as a seagull settling,
And the clocks will stop, and no one will wonder
or care or notice,
And people will smile without reason,
Even in winter, even in the rain.
I'm dreaming a different dream
I can see it in the distance
I've reached for it
touched it
it is not the same dream
but like all love dreams
it leaves me breathless
Copyright @ Aqua Flower
When I dream the dream of paradise
I see a picture of you
And when I dream the dream of love and care
I see a picture of us two
And when I dream a dream of loneliness
I see a shadow on the wall
Looking back at me like
I'm nothing at all
But those dreams a quickly chased away
When I wake up to a sunny day
And I see your pretty face right by my side
When I dream a dream of smiling
The room is full of you
And if I dream a dream of candy land
The sweetest thing is you
And if the nightmare comes along
To say its fond goodbyes
The thought of you will stop it
before those dreams arise
Because with you sharing my bed at night
My dream will always come out right
And tomorrow will always be another day
If I dream a dream while I'm awake
That dream will be of you
If I dream a dream of wedding cakes
I'll dream a dream of you
And when I dream a dream of a loving wife
That dream will be of you
And if I dream a dream of growing old
I'll be growing old with you
And if my dream were ever to come true
I know it will be because of you
And that's the reason that I love you so.
For my gorgeous wife Melissa
This poem © Timothy David Cook.2011
At night when you think through your day
Think on the things that you did say
When you think through the things that you should be
Dream this little dream for me
Dream of blue skies forever
Dream that we are a worthy endeavor
Dream this one dream so you can see
Dream this little dream for me
The world fades but I'm still here
Still living for you
I'm sitting outside beneath the sky clear
Just enjoying your view
Sleep well until morning comes
Live with the passion of a thousand suns
Tell me all the things that you should be
And dream this little dream for me
Dream of you through my eyes
Dream though it may not be much of a surprise
That while you dream enjoying the view
I'm dreaming a little dream for you.
Yes, dreaming a dream for you!
We met for supper in your flat-bottomed boat.
I got there first:   in a white dress:   I remember
Wondering if you'd come.   Then you shot over the bank,
A Virgilian Nigger Jim, and poled us off
To a little sea-food barker's cave you knew.
What'll you have? you said.   Eels hung down,
Bamboozled claws hung up from the crackling weeds.
The light was all behind us.   To one side
In a dish of ice was a shell shaped like a sand-dollar
But worked with Byzantine blue and gold.   What's that?
Well, I've never seen it before, you said,
And I don't know how it tastes.
Oh well, said I, if it's bad,
I'm not too hungry, are you? We'd have the shell...
I know just how you feel, you said.
And asked for it; we held out our hands.
Six Dollars! barked the barker, For This Beauty!
We fell down laughing in your flat-bottomed boat, .
And then I woke up:   in a white dress:
Dry as a bone on dry land, Jim,
Bone dry, old, in a dry land, Jim, my Jim. .
Dream by dream, I felt his presence,
A spirit formed of love and light,
A welcomed guest in my loneliness,
Sweetly whispering in the night
Dream by dream, the truth unfolded,
I'm no longer chained to sorrow,
He slayed the dragon of regret,
His courage is mine to borrow
Dream by dream, I watched the power
Of persuasion fly like a dart,
My will was pierced, then all went numb....
Swiftly, he overtook my heart
Dream by dream, I fought surrender,
Then, he transformed my shattered world,
Bravely, I walked toward my captor,
In my hand, the white flag unfurled
Dream by dream, I was overwhelmed,
Now I still ask how can this be,
But could I live without him now....?
Impossible.... he's part of me!
What happens to a dream deferred?
Does it dry up
Like a raisin in the sun?
Or fester like a sore--
And then run?
Does it stink like rotten meat?
Or crust and sugar over--
like a syrupy sweet?
Maybe it just sags
like a heavy load.
Or does it explode?
Where sunshine flecks the green,
Through towering woods my way
Goes winding all the day.
Scant are the flowers that bloom
Beneath the bosky screen
And cage of golden gloom.
Few are the birds that call,
Shrill-voiced and seldom seen.
Where silence masters all,
And light my footsteps fall,
The whispering runnels only
With blazing noon confer;
And comes no breeze to stir
The tangled thickets lonely.
You will come one day in a waver of love,
Tender as dew, impetuous as rain,
The tan of the sun will be on your skin,
The purr of the breeze in your murmuring speech,
You will pose with a hill-flower grace.
You will come, with your slim, expressive arms,
A poise of the head no sculptor has caught
And nuances spoken with shoulder and neck,
Your face in a pass-and-repass of moods
As many as skies in delicate change
Of cloud and blue and flimmering sun.
Yet,
You may not come, O girl of a dream,
We may but pass as the world goes by
And take from a look of eyes into eyes,
A film of hope and a memoried day.
COME WITH.............LONG TUNE
SOME OF WAEL`S STREET
OF ALEPO CITY
TO LEBANON FOR TV
BUT MURDERD ALL MEN AND WOMEN
O HOW BLOOD FLOWES FROM POEMS
OF ACADEMY
western.....i love winter leaves like
sky scrapers  in new york  before the second com
'ROBERT HERRICK'
HAW HOW you say next  the movie start battles
without spring com
part
WAEL MOREICHEH
8TH
JANUARY 2009
My love in dream
I see you thee, hand in hand
strolling beside the silver sea
lying on sand glowing as gold
thou art I feel kneeling by my side
I prayed for sun not to rise
and night to stay a little while
on the glowing silvery night
to me once more thy foot steps tend
following together side by side
I plead with yearn to never end
for far and wide our feet have traveled
leaving the marks on my soul
asif, for dream is dream just lie and bold
to keep the grip on hope and hold
At the top of a tree
There was the last fruit,
And it was rosy, luscious and tempting.
I watched the tree,
And gloated on the fruit.
The fruit did not come down.
I sized the tree up,
It was too big for me to shake.
It took me a while to decide
What to do:
I finally decided to climb.
But by the time I reached the top
The fruit was gone.
A monkey had got it first.
I swore I would wring the neck of that animal.
Only that it had disappeared with the fruit.
There are some who like me
Spend their lives building dreams
But do nothing about them,
Ready to tear the world to pieces
When the dreams fizzle.
There are others who make dreams work for them.
Success is the end result of a concentrated
And sustained chain of actions.
While dreams are important,
It is as important to make them come true.
With head up in the clouds, I carry on.
My dreams, alone, escape and climb aloft
Upon the wings of feathered siblings,
Brothers of my fantasies.
As pilots of the clouds, they kiss the sun. My dreams can reach the peaked tops of trees
Astride the solitary osprey's back,
While some, ride tucked away in outspread plumes
Or perched upon the proud bald eagle's head,
A symbol of our land.
Still other dreams go whistling by, on hawks
To whose great glorious wings they cling. They straddle winds that spin in rings
Around the world, yet never stop.
My dreams ride high into the sky;
But, when I sleep, my head rests light
Upon a cushion of those dreams.
They fill my life with wealth beyond belief,
Which I now share with you.
Where sunless rivers weep
Their waves into the deep,
She sleeps a charmed sleep:
Awake her not.
Led by a single star,
She came from very far
To seek where shadows are
Her pleasant lot.
She left the rosy morn,
She left the fields of corn,
For twilight cold and lorn
And water springs.
Through sleep, as through a veil,
She sees the sky look pale,
And hears the nightingale
That sadly sings.
Rest, rest, a perfect rest
Shed over brow and breast;
Her face is toward the west,
The purple land.
She cannot see the grain
Ripening on hill and plain;
She cannot feel the rain
Upon her hand.
Rest, rest, for evermore
Upon a mossy shore;
Rest, rest at the heart's core
Till time shall cease:
Sleep that no pain shall wake;
Night that no morn shall break
Till joy shall overtake
Her perfect peace.
Where sunless rivers weep
Their waves into the deep
She sleeps a charmed sleep:
Awake her not.
Led by a single star,
She came from very far
To seek where shadows are
Her pleasant lot.
She left the rosy morn,
She left the fields of corn,
For twilight cold and lorn
And water springs.
Through sleep, as through a veil,
She sees the sky look pale,
And hears the nightingale
That sadly sings.
Rest, rest, a perfect rest
Shed over brow and breast;
Her face is toward the west,
The purple land.
She cannot see the grain
Ripening on hill and plain;
She cannot feel the rain
Upon her hand.
Rest, rest, for evermore
Upon a mossy shore;
Rest, rest at the heart's core
Till time shall cease:
Sleep that no pain shall wake;
Night that no morn shall break
Till joy shall overtake
Her perfect peace.
Young Love lies sleeping
In May-time of the year,
Among the lilies,
Lapped in the tender light:
White lambs come grazing,
White doves come building there:
And round about him
The May-bushes are white.
Soft moss the pillow
For oh, a softer cheek;
Broad leaves cast shadow
Upon the heavy eyes:
There wind and waters
Grow lulled and scarcely speak;
There twilight lingers
The longest in the skies.
Young Love lies dreaming;
But who shall tell the dream?
A perfect sunlight
On rustling forest tips;
Or perfect moonlight
Upon a rippling stream;
Or perfect silence,
Or song of cherished lips.
Burn odours round him
To fill the drowsy air;
Weave silent dances
Around him to and fro;
For oh, in waking
The sights are no so fair,
And song and silence
Are not like these below.
Young Love lies dreaming
Till summer days are gone, -
Dreaming and drowsing
Away to perfect sleep:
He sees the beauty
Sun hath not looked upon,
And tastes the fountain
Unutterably deep.
Him perfect music
Doth hush unto his rest,
And through the pauses
The perfect silence calms:
Oh, poor the voices
Of earth from east to west,
And poor earth's stillness
Between her stately palms.
Young Love lies drowsing
Away to poppied death;
Cool shadows deepen
Across the sleeping face:
So fails the summer
With warm delicious breath;
And what hath autumn
To give us in its place?
Draw close the curtains
Of branched evergreen;
Change cannot touch them
With fading fingers sere:
Here first the violets
Perhaps with bud unseen,
And a dove, may be,
Return to nestle here.
stands she alone on the horizon
white her cloths blowing with mad rapture
long her airy hair playing to be off of the root
full moon strangles the surroundings to make it cry
cry not to get any another dawn
the sphinx as a look of behind chapters
the past never shows us the light
what lamped the imprisoned nymphs
night after night the whip the paws
the chiseling passion of the crown
marked their cracks their gallons of stallionic gallops
flooded the birth of enslaved curse
now glitter to revenge from ground to growth
moonlit night...
night scratches the certain rest
with the nails of horrible uncertain
flagging the smoke the dirt of dirty inhuman
possibly pissing their ancestors
locked in the volt iron-hard
to keep the way clear
to keep the root untouchable
stands she alone on the horizon
I as a sphinx  simply with blunt eyes
look beyond this dreamed night the age another
the days without death by dominating thumb
the life without fear the fear to be enslaved
shout without sound I again offer my soul
to the mighty mightier than that she stands alone
don't illuminate thy shine to shine the surroundings
gets dark its dawn with sigh and shadows of living dier
never
never
never
Pranab k c
09/07/2012
If there were dreams to sell,
What would you buy?
Some cost a passing bell;
Some a light sigh,
That shakes from Life's fresh crown
Only a rose-leaf down.
If there were dreams to sell,
Merry and sad to tell,
And the crier rang the bell,
What would you buy?
A cottage lone and still,
With bowers nigh,
Shadowy, my woes to still,
Until I die.
Such pearl from Life's fresh crown
Fain would I shake me down.
Were dreams to have at will,
This would best heal my ill,
This would I buy.
IF there were dreams to sell,
What would you buy?
Some cost a passing bell;
Some a light sigh,
That shakes from Life's fresh crown
Only a rose-leaf down.
If there were dreams to sell,
Merry and sad to tell,
And the crier rang the bell,
What would you buy?
A cottage lone and still,
With bowers nigh,
Shadowy, my woes to still,
Until I die.
Such pearl from Life's fresh crown
Fain would I shake me down.
Were dreams to have at will,
This would best heal my ill,
This would I buy.
To fling my arms wide
In some place of the sun,
To whirl and to dance
Till the white day is done.
Then rest at cool evening
Beneath a tall tree
While night comes on gently,
Dark like me-
That is my dream!
To fling my arms wide
In the face of the sun,
Dance! Whirl! Whirl!
Till the quick day is done.
Rest at pale evening...
A tall, slim tree...
Night coming tenderly
Black like me.
I opened the door in answer to a knock
And seeing who stood there
Gave me quite a shock
For there stood a fairy
Looking sad and forlorn
Her appearance was dirty
Disheveled and worn
Her shoes were all dusty
Her hair a tangled mess
She had knots in her ribbons
And rips in her dress
Her face was brown smudged
Her lips cracked and dry
Her wings were so tattered
She no doubt could not fly.
I welcomed her in
And we sat down for tea
This bedraggled little sprite
And still in shock me
I asked her to tell me
The tale of her plight
She looked at me sadly
Tears made her eyes bright
As she told me a story
Of swords, lords and knights.
Her beloved handsome Prince
Whom she loved with all breath
Had been wounded lay bleeding
So very near death
Hunched over his body
While shouting to the skies
He grasped her hand tightly
Gazed into her eyes
He managed to whisper
With last dying breath
Please go on without me
In life find the best.
As she finished her story
I awoke with a start
To a knock on my door
And I felt my heart stop
I snuck to the window
And gave out a peek
On the porch stood a unicorn
With an ice cream cone horn...
I awakened from a dream within a dream
Only to find that I hadn't gone to Rock n Roll Heaven
And that Rock n Roll Heaven had come down to earth
A moon-lit day
End of Fall
The Sun an unseen presence
Far down south-west
Behind some silver cloud
Maples showering gold
On a lengthening walkway
Lovely as the Milky Way
A young couple in embrace
On a lonely bench
Hush, hush, silent speech
Tip-toe vagrant breeze
A teenage cutie
In Halloween fancy
Of rainbow hues
Floats her way
Did the trees around
Send her down
With their sliding leaves?
Time in lethargy
The skies in brood
Life in slow motion
Fowl in meditation
Perched on the bank
Their eyes lost in the sheen
Of the placid pond
Is this an evening
Or a dream?
Rub your eyes
Pinch your thighs
This can never be
Anything but a dream
"Wake you dreamer"
"Into what?
Another dream?
A dream within a dream?
And then a dream within a dream within a dream….? "
Isn't life an evening of Fall
Unending within a dream within a dream……?
No one wakes here
A dream-some nowhere
Image of her whom I love, more than she,
Whose fair impression in my faithful heart
Makes me her medal, and makes her love me,
As Kings do coins, to which their stamps impart
The value: go, and take my heart from hence,
Which now is grown too great and good for me:
Honours oppress weak spirits, and our sense
Strong objects dull; the more, the less we see.
When you are gone, and Reason gone with you,
Then Fantasy is queen and soul, and all;
She can present joys meaner than you do;
Convenient, and more proportional.
So, if I dream I have you, I have you,
For, all our joys are but fantastical.
And so I 'scape the pain, for pain is true;
And sleep which locks up sense, doth lock out all.
After a such fruition I shall wake,
And, but the waking, nothing shall repent;
And shall to love more thankful sonnets make
Than if more honour, tears, and pains were spent.
But dearest heart, and dearer image, stay;
Alas, true joys at best are dream enough;
Though you stay here you pass too fast away:
For even at first life's taper is a snuff.
Filied with her love, may I be rather grown
Mad with much heart, than idiot with none.
Golden dream of summer morn,
By a well-remembered stream
In the land where I was born,
Golden dream!
Ripples, by the glancing beam
Lightly kissed in playful scorn,
Meadows moist with sunlit steam.
When I lift my eyelids worn
Like a fair mirage you seem,
In the winter dawn forlorn,
Golden dream!
Rat in the attic,
Toad in the abandoned well
Dreaming rule town? joke!
I dreamed as in my bed I lay,
All night's fathomless wisdom come,
That I had shorn my locks away
And laid them on Love's lettered tomb:
But something bore them out of sight
In a great tumult of the air,
And after nailed upon the night
Berenice's burning hair.
The seafarers tell of the Eastern Isle of Bliss,
It is lost in a wilderness of misty sea waves.
But the Sky-land of the south, the Yueh-landers say,
May be seen through cracks of the glimmering cloud.
This land of the sky stretches across the leagues of heaven;
It rises above the Five Mountains and towers over the Scarlet Castle,
While, as if staggering before it, the Tien-tai Peak
Of forty-eight thousand feet leans toward the southeast.
So, longing to dream of the southlands of Wu and Yueh,
I flew across the Mirror Lake one night under the moon.
The moon in the lake followed my flight,
Followed me to the town of Yen-chi.
Here still stands the mansion of Prince Hsieh.
I saw the green waters curl and heard the monkeys' shrill cries.
I climbed, putting on the clogs of the prince,
Skyward on a ladder of clouds,
And half-way up from the sky-wall I saw the morning sun,
And heard the heaven's cock crowing in the mid-air.
Now among a thousand precipices my way wound round and round;
Flowers choked the path; I leaned against a rock; I swooned.
Roaring bears and howling dragons roused me—
Oh, the clamorous waters of the rapids!
I trembled in the deep forest, and shuddered at the overhanging crags,
one heaped upon another.
Clouds on clouds gathered above, threatening rain;
The waters gushed below, breaking into mist.
A peal of blasting thunder!
The mountains crumbled.
The stone gate of the hollow heaven
Opened wide, revealing
A vasty realm of azure without bottom,
Sun and moon shining together on gold and silver palaces.
Clad in rainbow and riding on the wind,
The ladies of the air descended like flower, flakes;
The faery lords trooping in, they were thick as hemp-stalks in the fields.
Phoenix birds circled their cars, and panthers played upon harps.
Bewilderment filled me, and terror seized on my heart.
I lifted myself in amazement, and alas!
I woke and found my bed and pillow—
Gone was the radiant world of gossamer.
So with all pleasures of life.
All things pass with the east-flowing water.
I leave you and go—when shall I return?
Let the white roe feed at will among the green crags,
Let me ride and visit the lovely mountains!
How can I stoop obsequiously and serve the mighty ones!
It stifles my soul.
I swayed upon the gaudy stem
The butt-end of a steering-oar,
And saw wherever I could turn
A crowd upon a shore.
And though I would have hushed the crowd,
There was no mother's son but said,
"What is the figure in a shroud
Upon a gaudy bed?'
And after running at the brim
Cried out upon that thing beneath
- It had such dignity of limb -
By the sweet name of Death.
Though I'd my finger on my lip,
What could I but take up the song?
And running crowd and gaudy ship
Cried out the whole night long,
Crying amid the glittering sea,
Naming it with ecstatic breath,
Because it had such dignity,
By the sweet name of Death.
Doing each good
In life go on I should,
May come death at mid
But earnings shall follow me just
May be late,
My eyes will see or may not
Shall see my generations that,
And shall glorify
From earth to sky,
Thus they will go on
Making proper region.
I DREAM'D in a dream, I saw a city invincible to the attacks of the
whole of the rest of the earth;
I dream'd that was the new City of Friends;
Nothing was greater there than the quality of robust love--it led the
rest;
It was seen every hour in the actions of the men of that city,
And in all their looks and words.
I know a dream called America -
That led to freedom - our precious -
freedom. That was won - That was won -
through - loneliness - hunger - blood-
Sweat - and tears. By your christian forefathers - who
Fought on with determination - through
The night - and through the day - till
The war was won. In the cold - cold - winter snow of
Seventeen-Seventy-Six - that won us
our freedom. Happy birthday America to everyone
Say a prayer for your country - everyone -
Give a helping hand - everyone - for the
Cause of freedom - everyone - let no one
take your freedom from this land - for
It is our hope - and our passport everyone -
And our golden gate - to the promised land -
Where our almighty God abides. - Happy birthday America - to everyone -
May we share - many many more. I know a dream called America -
That lead to Freedom - our precious Freedom. That was won - that was won -
Through loneliness - and hunger - blood -
Sweat - and tears Happy birthday America - to everyone -
Say a prayer for your country - everyone -
Give a helping hand - everyone - for the
Cause of Freedom from this land - for it's
Our hope - and your passport - everyone - and
Our golden gate - to the promised land -
Where Almighty God - abides.
I was again beside thee in a dream:
Earth was so beautiful, the moon was shining;
The muffled voice of many a cataract stream
Came like a love-song, as, with arms entwining,
Our hearts were mixed in unison supreme.
The wind lay spell-bound in each pillared pine,
The tasselled larches had no sound or motion,
As my whole life was sinking into thine--
Sinking into a deep, unfathomed ocean
Of infinite love--uncircumscribed, divine.
Night held her breath, it seemed, with all her stars:
Eternal eyes that watched in mute compassion
Our little lives o'erleap their mortal bars,
Fused in the fulness of immortal passion,
A passion as immortal as the stars.
There was no longer any thee or me;
No sense of self, no wish or incompleteness
The moment, rounded to Eternity,
Annihilated time's destructive fleetness:
For all but love itself had ceased to be.
It's funny how we always seem,
To be so happy in a dream,
Yet when it's time for us to wake,
We think our dreams a big mistake. It's funny how in proper life,
We seem so bent on war and strife,
If only we would try to live,
To be forgiving and to give. Then to us our life would seem,
To be the same as in our dream,
And in the morn when we awake,
We'd never make the same mistake.
Oh! the days are gone, when Beauty bright
My heart's chain wove;
When my dream of life, from morn till night,
Was love, still love.
New hope may bloom,
And days may come,
Of milder calmer beam,
But there's nothing half so sweet in life
As love's young dream:
No, there's nothing half so sweet in life
As love's young dream.
Though the bard to purer fame may soar,
When wild youth's past;
Though he win the wise, who frown'd before,
To smile at last;
He'll never meet
A joy so sweet,
In all his noon of fame,
As when first he sung to woman's ear
His soul-felt flame,
And, at every close, she blush'd to hear
The one loved name.
No, -  that hallow'd form is ne'er forgot
Which first love traced;
Still it lingering haunts the greenest spot
On memory's waste.
'Twas odour fled
As soon as shed;
'Twas morning's winged dream;
'Twas a light, tht ne'er can shine again
On life's dull stream:
Oh! 'twas light that n'er can shine again
On life's dull stream.
This is my dream,
It is my own dream,
I dreamt it.
I dreamt that my hair was kempt.
Then I dreamt that my true love unkempt it.
I've quenched my lamp, I struck it in that start
Which every limb convulsed, I heard it fall­
The crash blent with my sleep, I saw depart
Its light, even as I woke, on yonder wall;
Over against my bed, there shone a gleam
Strange, faint, and mingling also with my dream.
It sunk, and I am wrapt in utter gloom;
How far is night advanced, and when will day
Retinge the dusk and livid air with bloom,
And fill this void with warm, creative ray ?
Would I could sleep again till, clear and red,
Morning shall on the mountain-tops be spread!
I'd call my women, but to break their sleep,
Because my own is broken, were unjust;
They've wrought all day, and well-earned slumbers steep
Their labours in forgetfulness, I trust;
Let me my feverish watch with patience bear,
Thankful that none with me its sufferings share.
Yet, Oh, for light ! one ray would tranquilise
My nerves, my pulses, more than effort can;
I'll draw my curtain and consult the skies:
These trembling stars at dead of night look wan,
Wild, restless, strange, yet cannot be more drear
Than this my couch, shared by a nameless fear.
All black­one great cloud, drawn from east to west,
Conceals the heavens, but there are lights below;
Torches burn in Jerusalem, and cast
On yonder stony mount a lurid glow.
I see men stationed there, and gleaming spears;
A sound, too, from afar, invades my ears.
Dull, measured, strokes of axe and hammer ring
From street to street, not loud, but through the night
Distinctly heard­and some strange spectral thing
Is now upreared­and, fixed against the light
Of the pale lamps; defined upon that sky,
It stands up like a column, straight and high.
I see it all­I know the dusky sign­
A cross on Calvary, which Jews uprear
While Romans watch; and when the dawn shall shine
Pilate, to judge the victim will appear,
Pass sentence­yield him up to crucify;
And on that cross the spotless Christ must die.
Dreams, then, are true­for thus my vision ran;
Surely some oracle has been with me,
The gods have chosen me to reveal their plan,
To warn an unjust judge of destiny:
I, slumbering, heard and saw; awake I know,
Christ's coming death, and Pilate's life of woe.
I do not weep for Pilate­who could prove
Regret for him whose cold and crushing sway
No prayer can soften, no appeal can move;
Who tramples hearts as others trample clay,
Yet with a faltering, an uncertain tread,
That might stir up reprisal in the dead.
Forced to sit by his side and see his deeds;
Forced to behold that visage, hour by hour,
In whose gaunt lines, the abhorrent gazer reads
A triple lust of gold, and blood, and power;
A soul whom motives, fierce, yet abject, urge
Rome's servile slave, and Judah's tyrant scourge.
How can I love, or mourn, or pity him ?
I, who so long my fettered hands have wrung;
I, who for grief have wept my eye-sight dim;
Because, while life for me was bright and young,
He robbed my youth­he quenched my life's fair ray­
He crushed my mind, and did my freedom slay.
And at this hour­although I be his wife­
He has no more of tenderness from me
Than any other wretch of guilty life;
Less, for I know his household privacy­
I see him as he is­without a screen;
And, by the gods, my soul abhors his mien !
Has he not sought my presence, dyed in blood­
Innocent, righteous blood, shed shamelessly ?
And have I not his red salute withstood ?
Aye,­when, as erst, he plunged all Galilee
In dark bereavement­in affliction sore,
Mingling their very offerings with their gore.
Then came he­in his eyes a serpent-smile,
Upon his lips some false, endearing word,
And, through the streets of Salem, clanged the while,
His slaughtering, hacking, sacrilegious sword­
And I, to see a man cause men such woe,
Trembled with ire­I did not fear to show.
And now, the envious Jewish priests have brought
Jesus­whom they in mockery call their king­
To have, by this grim power, their vengeance wrought;
By this mean reptile, innocence to sting.
Oh ! could I but the purposed doom avert,
And shield the blameless head from cruel hurt!
Accessible is Pilate's heart to fear,
Omens will shake his soul, like autumn leaf;
Could he this night's appalling vision hear,
This just man's bonds were loosed, his life were safe,
Unless that bitter priesthood should prevail,
And make even terror to their malice quail.
Yet if I tell the dream­but let me pause.
What dream ? Erewhile the characters were clear,
Graved on my brain­at once some unknown cause
Has dimmed and rased the thoughts, which now appear,
Like a vague remnant of some by-past scene;­
Not what will be, but what, long since, has been.
I suffered many things, I heard foretold
A dreadful doom for Pilate,­lingering woes,
In far, barbarian climes, where mountains cold
Built up a solitude of trackless snows,
There, he and grisly wolves prowled side by side,
There he lived famished­there methought he died;
But not of hunger, nor by malady;
I saw the snow around him, stained with gore;
I said I had no tears for such as he,
And, lo ! my cheek is wet­mine eyes run o'er;
I weep for mortal suffering, mortal guilt,
I weep the impious deed­the blood self-spilt.
More I recall not, yet the vision spread
Into a world remote, an age to come­
And still the illumined name of Jesus shed
A light, a clearness, through the enfolding gloom­
And still I saw that sign, which now I see,
That cross on yonder brow of Calvary.
What is this Hebrew Christ ? To me unknown,
His lineage­doctrine­mission­yet how clear,
Is God-like goodness, in his actions shewn !
How straight and stainless is his life's career !
The ray of Deity that rests on him,
In my eyes makes Olympian glory dim.
The world advances, Greek, or Roman rite
Suffices not the inquiring mind to stay;
The searching soul demands a purer light
To guide it on its upward, onward way;
Ashamed of sculptured gods­Religion turns
To where the unseen Jehovah's altar burns.
Our faith is rotten­all our rites defiled,
Our temples sullied, and methinks, this man,
With his new ordinance, so wise and mild,
Is come, even as he says, the chaff to fan
And sever from the wheat; but will his faith
Survive the terrors of to-morrow's death ?
* * * * *
I feel a firmer trust­a higher hope
Rise in my soul­it dawns with dawning day;
Lo ! on the Temple's roof­on Moriah's slope
Appears at length that clear, and crimson ray,
Which I so wished for when shut in by night;
Oh, opening skies, I hail, I bless your light !
Part, clouds and shadows ! glorious Sun appear !
Part, mental gloom ! Come insight from on high !
Dusk dawn in heaven still strives with daylight clear,
The longing soul, doth still uncertain sigh.
Oh ! to behold the truth­that sun divine,
How doth my bosom pant, my spirit pine !
This day, time travails with a mighty birth,
This day, Truth stoops from heaven and visits earth,
Ere night descends, I shall more surely know
What guide to follow, in what path to go;
I wait in hope­I wait in solemn fear,
The oracle of God­the sole­true God­to hear.
I dreamed kind Jesus fouled the big-gun gears;
And caused a permanent stoppage in all bolts;
And buckled with a smile Mausers and Colts;
And rusted every bayonet with His tears.
And there were no more bombs, of ours or Theirs,
Not even an old flint-lock, not even a pikel.
But God was vexed, and gave all power to Michael;
And when I woke he'd seen to our repairs.
Last night
as I silently
slept
into my dreams
you genlty
crept.
Recalling
times when you
were there
life was breezy
without a care.
Loving you
from the time we
met
walking together
in the sunset.
Knowing your warm
tender embrace
is something time
cannot erase.
Pledging once more
my love to you
when I awoke the
dream was through.
Already, you are mine. Rest with your dream inside my dream.
Love, grief, labour, must sleep now.
Night revolves on invisible wheels
and joined to me you are pure as sleeping amber.
No one else will sleep with my dream, love.
You will go we will go joined by the waters of time.
No other one will travel the shadows with me,
only you, eternal nature, eternal sun, eternal moon.
Already your hands have opened their delicate fists
and let fall, without direction, their gentle signs,
you eyes enclosing themselves like two grey wings,
while I follow the waters you bring that take me onwards:
night, Earth, winds weave their fate, and already,
not only am I not without you, I alone am your dream.
Oh fluttering pretty butterfly
At your make I gasp with daze
Let me join your dazzling dance
Laced with grace of swaggering steps
Oh sensuous playful butterfly
To your songs I simply sway
Come play me your silken flute
Treat my heart to blissful tunes
Of gentle precious butterfly
For your robe my pollen long
Let me hold you oh dainty dressed
Flake on me in golden scales
Oh beautiful princess butterfly
Come and see my petals glow
Pray attend my nectar's flow
Please my passion with probing kiss
Come please, oh butterfly
Kindly share my scented soul
Cause my life to boundless bloom
Burst with me in flame of Love
On improvement of the female sex in love relationships.
I saw a ship of material build
(Her standards set, her brave apparel on)
Directed as by madness mere
Against a solid iceberg steer,
Nor budge it, though the infactuate ship went down.
The impact made huge ice-cubes fall
Sullen in tons that crashed the deck;
But that one avalanche was all--
No other movement save the foundering wreck.
Along the spurs of ridges pale,
Not any slenderest shaft and frail,
A prism over glass-green gorges lone,
Toppled; or lace or traceries fine,
Nor pendant drops in grot or mine
Were jarred, when the stunned ship went down.
Nor sole the gulls in cloud that wheeled
Circling one snow-flanked peak afar,
But nearer fowl the floes that skimmed
And crystal beaches, felt no jar.
No thrill transmitted stirred the lock
Of jack-straw neddle-ice at base;
Towers indermined by waves--the block
Atilt impending-- kept their place.
Seals, dozing sleek on sliddery ledges
Slipt never, when by loftier edges
Through the inertia ovrthrown,
The impetuous ship in bafflement went down.
Hard Berg (methought), so cold, so vast,
With mortal damps self-overcast;
Exhaling still thy dankish breath--
Adrift dissolving, bound for death;
Though lumpish thou, a lumbering one--
A lumbering lubbard loitering slow,
Impingers rue thee ad go slow
Sounding thy precipice below,
Nor stir the slimy slug that sprawls
Along thy dead indifference of walls.
Methought I saw him but I knew him not;
He was so changed from what he used to be,
There was no redness on his woe-worn cheek,
No sunny smile upon his ashy lips,
His hollow wandering eyes looked wild and fierce,
And grief was printed on his marble brow,
And O I thought he clasped his wasted hands,
And raised his haggard eyes to Heaven, and prayed
That he might die -  I had no power to speak,
I thought I was allowed to see him thus;
And yet I might not speak one single word;
I might not even tell him that I lived
And that it might be possible if search were made,
To find out where I was and set me free,
O how I longed to clasp him to my heart,
Or but to hold his trembling hand in mine,
And speak one word of comfort to his mind,
I struggled wildly but it was in vain,
I could not rise from my dark dungeon floor,
And the dear name I vainly strove to speak,
Died in a voiceless whisper on my tongue,
Then I awoke, and lo it was a dream!
A dream? Alas it was reality!
For well I know wherever he may be
He mourns me thus -  O heaven I could bear
My deadly fate with calmness if there were
No kindred hearts to bleed and break for me!
Alexandrina Zenobia
The deepest dream is of mad governors,
Down, down we feel it, till the very crust
Of the world cracks, and where there was no dust,
Atoms of ruin rise. Confusion stirs,
And fear; and all our thoughts--dark scavengers--
Feed on the center's refuse. Hope is thrust
Like wind away, and love sinks into lust
For merest safety, meanest of levelers.
And then we wake. Or do we? Sleep endures
More than the morning can, when shadows lie
Sharper than mountains, and the cleft is real
Between us and our kings. What sun assures
Our courage, and what evening by and by
Descends to rest us, and perhaps to heal?
From the Spanish of Pedro Calderon de la Barca
A dream it was in which I found myself.
And you that hail me now, then hailed me king,
In a brave palace that was all my own,
Within, and all without it, mine; until,
Drunk with excess of majesty and pride,
Methought I towered so big and swelled so wide
That of myself I burst the glittering bubble
Which my ambition had about me blown,
And all again was darkness. Such a dream
As this, in which I may be walking now,
Dispensing solemn justice to you shadows,
Who make believe to listen; but anon
Kings, princes, captains, warriors, plume and steel,
Aye, even with all your airy theatre,
May flit into the air you seem to rend
With acclamations, leaving me to wake
In the dark tower; or dreaming that I wake
From this that waking is; or this and that,
Both waking and both dreaming; such a doubt
Confounds and clouds our moral life about.
But whether wake or dreaming, this I know,
How dreamwise human glories come and go;
Whose momentary tenure not to break,
Walking as one who knows he soon may wake,
So fairly carry the full cup, so well
Disordered insolence and passion quell,
That there be nothing after to upbraid
Dreamer or doer in the part he played;
Whether tomorrow's dawn shall break the spell,
Or the last trumpet of the Eternal Day,
When dreaming, with the night, shall pass away.
A dream of mine flew over the mead
To the halls where my old Love reigns;
And it drew me on to follow its lead:
And I stood at her window-panes;
And I saw but a thing of flesh and bone
Speeding on to its cleft in the clay;
And my dream was scared, and expired on a moan,
And I whitely hastened away.
I've lost the joy that used to meet your smile,
And found without its light my life now feels
That I have squandered love; It takes a while
Before faith's misconception hurts as real.
In emptiness your voice leaves sounds untouched;
The tones and memories of brighter days.
If I had only known I loved you this much,
I'd not have lost the light for darker ways.
Where secrets hide beneath a stoic voice,
The fear which bars your music soft from me,
I can not bear this hurt, but have no choice;
The dream I dared not dream means such to me.
I can not see nor hear that which I know,
But blinded thus, I dare not let love go.
-August 26,2005
Bring me all of your dreams,
You dreamer,
Bring me all your
Heart melodies
That I may wrap them
In a blue cloud-cloth
Away from the too-rough fingers
Of the world.
Nine grenadiers, with bayonets in their guns;
Nine bakers' baskets, with hot cross buns;
Nine brown elephants standing in a row;
Nine new velocipedes, good ones to go;
Nine knickerbocker suits, with buttons all complete;
Nine pairs of skates with straps for the feet;
Nine clever conjurors eating hot coals;
Nine sturdy mountaineers leaping on their poles;
Nine little drummer-boys beating on their drums;
Nine fat aldermen sitting on their thumbs;
Nine new knockers to our front door;
Nine new neighbours that I never saw before;
Nine times running I dreamt it all plain;
With bread and cheese for supper I could dream it all again!
Seven sweet singing birds up in a tree;
Seven swift sailing ships white upon the sea;
Seven bright weather-cocks shining in the sun;
Seven slim race-horses ready for a run;
Seven gold butterflies, flitting overhead;
Seven red roses blowing in a garden bed;
Seven white lilies, with honey bees inside them;
Seven round rainbows with clouds to divide them;
Seven pretty little girls with sugar on their lips;
Seven witty little boys, whom everybody tips;
Seven nice fathers, to call little maids joys;
Seven nice mothers, to kiss the little boys;
Seven nights running I dreamt it all plain;
With bread and jam for supper I could dream it all again!
'Twas in the prime of summer-time
An evening calm and cool,
And four-and-twenty happy boys
Came bounding out of school:
There were some that ran and some that leapt,
Like troutlets in a pool.
Away they sped with gamesome minds,
And souls untouched by sin;
To a level mead they came, and there
They drave the wickets in:
Pleasantly shone the setting sun
Over the town of Lynn.
Like sportive deer they coursed about,
And shouted as they ran,-
Turning to mirth all things of earth,
As only boyhood can;
But the Usher sat remote from all,
A melancholy man!
His hat was off, his vest apart,
To catch heaven's blessed breeze;
For a burning thought was in his brow,
And his bosom ill at ease:
So he leaned his head on his hands, and read
The book upon his knees!
Leaf after leaf he turned it o'er
Nor ever glanced aside,
For the peace of his soul he read that book
In the golden eventide:
Much study had made him very lean,
And pale, and leaden-eyed.
At last he shut the pond'rous tome,
With a fast and fervent grasp
He strained the dusky covers close,
And fixed the brazen hasp;
'Oh, God! could I so close my mind,
And clasp it with a clasp! '
Then leaping on his feet upright,
Some moody turns he took,-
Now up the mead, then down the mead,
And past a shady nook,-
And lo! he saw a little boy
That pored upon a book.
'My gentle lad, what is't you read -
Romance or fairy fable?
Or is it some historic page,
Of kings and crowns unstable? '
The young boy gave an upward glance,-
'It is 'The Death of Abel.''
The Usher took six hasty strides,
As smit with sudden pain, -
Six hasty strides beyond the place,
Then slowly back again;
And down he sat beside the lad,
And talked with him of Cain;
And, long since then, of bloody men,
Whose deeds tradition saves;
Of lonely folks cut off unseen,
And hid in sudden graves;
Of horrid stabs, in groves forlorn,
And murders done in caves;
And how the sprites of injured men
Shriek upward from the sod. -
Ay, how the ghostly hand will point
To show the burial clod:
And unknown facts of guilty acts
Are seen in dreams from God!
He told how murderers walk the earth
Beneath the curse of Cain, -
With crimson clouds before their eyes,
And flames about their brain:
For blood has left upon their souls
Its everlasting stain!
'And well,' quoth he, 'I know for truth,
Their pangs must be extreme, -
Woe, woe, unutterable woe, -
Who spill life's sacred stream!
For why, Methought last night I wrought
A murder, in a dream!
One that had never done me wrong -
A feeble man and old;
I led him to a lonely field,
The moon shone clear and cold:
Now here, said I, this man shall die,
And I will have his gold!
'Two sudden blows with a ragged stick,
And one with a heavy stone,
One hurried gash with a hasty knife, -
And then the deed was done:
There was nothing lying at my foot
But lifeless flesh and bone!
'Nothing but lifeless flesh and bone,
That could not do me ill;
And yet I feared him all the more,
For lying there so still:
There was a manhood in his look,
That murder could not kill! '
'And lo! the universal air
Seemed lit with ghastly flame;
Ten thousand thousand dreadful eyes
Were looking down in blame:
I took the dead man by his hand,
And called upon his name!
'O God! it made me quake to see
Such sense within the slain!
But when I touched the lifeless clay,
The blood gushed out amain!
For every clot, a burning spot
Was scorching in my brain!
'My head was like an ardent coal,
My heart as solid ice;
My wretched, wretched soul, I knew,
Was at the Devil's price:
A dozen times I groaned: the dead
Had never groaned but twice!
'And now, from forth the frowning sky,
From the Heaven's topmost height,
I heard a voice -  the awful voice
Of the blood-avenging sprite -
'Thou guilty man! take up thy dead
And hide it from my sight! '
'I took the dreary body up,
And cast it in a stream, -
A sluggish water, black as ink,
The depth was so extreme:
My gentle boy, remember this
Is nothing but a dream!
'Down went the corse with a hollow plunge,
And vanished in the pool;
Anon I cleansed my bloody hands,
And washed my forehead cool,
And sat among the urchins young,
That evening in the school.
'Oh, Heaven! to think of their white souls,
And mine so black and grim!
I could not share in childish prayer,
Nor join in Evening Hymn:
Like a Devil of the Pit I seemed,
'Mid holy Cherubim!
'And peace went with them, one and all,
And each calm pillow spread;
But Guilt was my grim Chamberlain
That lighted me to bed;
And drew my midnight curtains round
With fingers bloody red!
'All night I lay in agony,
In anguish dark and deep,
My fevered eyes I dared not close,
But stared aghast at Sleep:
For Sin had rendered unto her
The keys of Hell to keep!
'All night I lay in agony,
From weary chime to chime,
With one besetting horrid hint,
That racked me all the time;
A mighty yearning, like the first
Fierce impulse unto crime!
'One stern, tyrannic thought, that made
All other thoughts its slave;
Stronger and stronger every pulse
Did that temptation crave, -
Still urging me to go and see
The Dead Man in his grave!
'Heavily I rose up, as soon
As light was in the sky,
And sought the black accursèd pool
With a wild misgiving eye:
And I saw the Dead in the river-bed,
For the faithless stream was dry.
'Merrily rose the lark, and shook
The dewdrop from its wing;
But I never marked its morning flight,
I never heard it sing:
For I was stooping once again
Under the horrid thing.
'With breathless speed, like a soul in chase,
I took him up and ran;
There was no time to dig a grave
Before the day began:
In a lonesome wood, with heaps of leaves,
I hid the murdered man!
'And all that day I read in school,
But my thought was otherwhere;
As soon as the midday task was done,
In secret I went there:
And a mighty wind had swept the leaves,
And still the corpse was bare!
'Then down I cast me on my face,
And first began to weep,
For I knew my secret then was one
That earth refused to keep:
Or land, or sea, though he should be
Ten thousand fathoms deep.
'So wills the fierce avenging Sprite,
Till blood for blood atones!
Ay, though he's buried in a cave,
And trodden down with stones,
And years have rotted off his flesh, -
The world shall see his bones!
'Oh God! that horrid, horrid dream
Besets me now awake!
Again- again, with dizzy brain,
The human life I take:
And my red right hand grows raging hot,
Like Cranmer's at the stake.
'And still no peace for the restless clay,
Will wave or mould allow;
The horrid thing pursues my soul -
It stands before me now! '
The fearful Boy looked up, and saw
Huge drops upon his brow.
That very night while gentle sleep
The urchin's eyelids kissed,
Two stern-faced men set out from Lynn,
Through the cold and heavy mist;
And Eugene Aram walked between,
With gyves upon his wrist.
The dream of those days when first I sung thee is o'er
Thy triumph hath stain'd the charm thy sorrows then wore;
And even the light which Hope once shed o'er thy chains,
Alas, not a gleam to grace thy freedom remains.
Say, is it that slavery sunk so deep in thy heart,
That still the dark brand is there, though chainless thou art;
And Freedom's sweet fruit, for which thy spirit long burn'd,
Now, reaching at last thy lip, to ashes hath turn'd?
Up Liberty's steep by Truth and Eloquence led,
With eyes on her temple fix'd, how proud was thy tread!
Ah, better thou ne'er hadst lived that summit to gain,
Denied in the porch, than thus dishonour the fane.
Not long ago, in a charming dream,
I saw myself -  a king with crown's treasure;
I was in love with you, it seemed,
And heart was beating with a pleasure.
I sang my passion's song by your enchanting knees.
Why, dreams, you didn't prolong my happiness forever?
But gods deprived me not of whole their favor:
I only lost the kingdom of my dreams.
Believe me, this was true last night,
Tho' it is false to-day.
-  A.M.F. Robinson.
A fair dream to my chamber flew:
Such a crowd of folk that stirred,
Jested, fluttered; only you,
You alone of all that band,
Calm and silent, spake no word.
Only once you neared my place,
And your hand one moment's space
Sought the fingers of my hand;
Your eyes flashed to mine; I knew
All was well between us two.
* * * * *
On from dream to dream I past,
But the first sweet vision cast
Mystic radiance o'er the last.
* * * * *
When I woke the pale night lay
Still, expectant of the day;
All about the chamber hung
Tender shade of twilight gloom;
The fair dream hovered round me, clung
To my thought like faint perfume:-
Like sweet odours, such as cling
To the void flask, which erst encloses
Attar of rose; or the pale string
Of amber which has lain with roses.
All trembling in my arms Aminta lay,
Defending of the bliss I strove to take;
Raising my rapture by her kind delay,
Her force so charming was and weak.
The soft resistance did betray the grant,
While I pressed on the heaven of my desires;
Her rising breasts with nimbler motions pant;
Her dying eyes assume new fires.
Now to the height of languishment she grows,
And still her looks new charms put on;
– Now the last mystery of Love she knows,
We sigh, and kiss: I waked, and all was done.
`Twas but a dream, yet by my heart I knew,
Which still was panting, part of it was true:
Oh how I strove the rest to have believed;
Ashamed and angry to be undeceived!
Dear love, for nothing less than thee
Would I have broke this happy dream;
It was a theme
For reason, much too strong for phantasy:
Therefore thou waked'st me wisely; yet
My dream thou brok'st not, but continued'st it.
Thou art so truth that thoughts of thee suffice
To make dreams truths, and fables histories.
Enter these arms, for since thou thought'st it best
Not to dream all my dream, let's act the rest.
As lightning or a taper's light,
Thine eyes, and not thy noise, waked me;
Yet I thought thee
(For thou lov'st truth)  an angel at first sight;
But when I saw thou saw'st my heart,
And knew'st my thoughts, beyond an angels art,
When thou knew'st what I dreamt, when thou knew'st when
Excess of joy would wake me, and cam'st then,
I must confess it could not choose but be
Prophane to think thee anything but thee.
Comming and staying showed thee thee,
But rising makes me doubt, that now
Thou art not thou.
That Love is weak, where fear's as strong as he;
'Tis not all spirit pure and brave
If mixture it of Fear, Shame, Honour, have.
Perchance as torches, which must ready be,
Men light and put out, so thou deal'st with me,
Thou cam'st to kindle, go'st to come; Then I
Will dream that hope again, but else would die.
I have a dream
to fill the golden sheath
of a remembered day....
(Air
heavy and massed and blue
as the vapor of opium...
domes
fired in sulphurous mist...
sea
quiescent as a gray seal...
and the emerging sun
spurting up gold
over Sydney, smoke-pale, rising out of the bay....)
But the day is an up-turned cup
and its sun a junk of red iron
guttering in sluggish-green water--
where shall I pour my dream?
O God, in the dream the terrible horse began
To paw at the air, and make for me with his blows,
Fear kept for thirty-five years poured through his mane,
And retribution equally old, or nearly, breathed through his nose.
Coward complete, I lay and wept on the ground
When some strong creature appeared, and leapt for the rein.
Another woman, as I lay half in a swound
Leapt in the air, and clutched at the leather and chain.
Give him, she said, something of yours as a charm.
Throw him, she said, some poor thing you alone claim.
No, no, I cried, he hates me; he is out for harm,
And whether I yield or not, it is all the same.
But, like a lion in a legend, when I flung the glove
Pulled from my sweating, my cold right hand;
The terrible beast, that no one may understand,
Came to my side, and put down his head in love.
Said Will: "I'll stay and till the land."
Said Jack: "I'll sail the sea."
So one went forth kit-bag in hand,
The other ploughed the lea.
They met again at Christmas-tide,
And wistful were the two.
Said Jack: "you're lucky here to bide."
Said Will: "I envy you."
"For in your eyes a light I see
Of tropic shores agleam."
Said Jack: "You need not envy me,
For still you have the Dream.
"The Dream that lured me out to sea;
'Twas bright as paradise;
Far fairer than the memory
You see within my eyes.
So if my foolish urge you share
In foreign lands to roam,
Take up my kit-bag waiting there
And I will stay at home."
*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
Yet while the years have fated Will
To sow the sober loam,
The eyes of Jack are starry still,
High-riding hills of foam.
I
Moonlight and dew-drenched blossom, and the scent
Of summer gardens; these can bring you all
Those dreams that in the starlit silence fall:
Sweet songs are full of odours.
While I went
Last night in drizzling dusk along a lane,
I passed a squalid farm; from byre and midden
Came the rank smell that brought me once again
A dream of war that in the past was hidden.
II
Up a disconsolate straggling village street
I saw the tired troops trudge: I heard their feet.
The cheery Q.M.S. was there to meet
And guide our Company in...
I watched them stumble
Into some crazy hovel, too beat to grumble;
Saw them file inward, slipping from their backs
Rifles, equipment, packs.
On filthy straw they sit in the gloom, each face
Bowed to patched, sodden boots they must unlace,
While the wind chills their sweat through chinks and cracks.
III
I’m looking at their blistered feet; young Jones
Stares up at me, mud-splashed and white and jaded;
Out of his eyes the morning light has faded.
Old soldiers with three winters in their bones
Puff their damp Woodbines, whistle, stretch their toes:
They can still grin at me, for each of ’em knows
That I’m as tired as they are...
Can they guess
The secret burden that is always mine?—
Pride in their courage; pity for their distress;
And burning bitterness
That I must take them to the accursèd Line.
IV
I cannot hear their voices, but I see
Dim candles in the barn: they gulp their tea,
And soon they’ll sleep like logs. Ten miles away
The battle winks and thuds in blundering strife.
And I must lead them nearer, day by day,
To the foul beast of war that bludgeons life.
Last night, mother, he told me so,
As we walked by the pebbly stream;
And I wake so happy--so wild with joy,
It seems like a fairy dream.
But his charming voice is ringing in my ear,
As a dream voice chould not be--
He's the best man, you know, in the whole wide world,
And he loves--he only love me.
Kiss me, mother, and share the joy
That has on my fortune smiled;
You have shared myu sorrows when e'er I wept,
Since I was a little child
Do you chide me now? what could your darling do,
When he pleads with bended knee?
He's the best man, you know, in the whole wide world,
And he loves--he only loves me.
Leave you, mother, it brings a pang
To this light and bounding heart;
But if he were calling, the bride would go,
Tho' you and the daughter part.
At a word from him, a beckon of his hand,
I would cross the rolling sea--
He's the best man, you know, in the whole wide world,
And he loves--he only loves me.
The nearest dream recedes, unrealized.
The heaven we chase
Like the June bee
Before the school-boy
Invites the race;
Stoops to an easy clover
Dips--evades--teases--deploys;
Then to the royal clouds
Lifts his light pinnace
Heedless of the boy
Staring, bewildered, at the mocking sky.
Homesick for steadfast honey,
Ah! the bee flies not
That brews that rare variety.
In an opal dream cave I found a fairy:
Her wings were frailer than flower petals,
Frailer far than snowflakes.
She was not frightened, but poised on my finger,
Then delicately walked into my hand.
I shut the two palms of my hands together
And held her prisoner.
I carried her out of the opal cave,
Then opened my hands.
First she became thistledown,
Then a mote in a sunbeam,
Then--nothing at all.
Empty now is my opal dream cave.
Beside the ungathered rice he lay,
His sickle in his hand;
His breast was bare, his matted hair
Was buried in the sand.
Again, in the mist and shadow of sleep,
He saw his Native Land.
Wide through the landscape of his dreams
The lordly Niger flowed;
Beneath the palm-trees on the plain
Once more a king he strode;
And heard the tinkling caravans
Descend the mountain-road.
He saw once more his dark-eyed queen
Among her children stand;
They clasped his neck, they kissed his cheeks,
They held him by the hand!--
A tear burst from the sleeper's lids
And fell into the sand.
And then at furious speed he rode
Along the Niger's bank;
His bridle-reins were golden chains,
And, with a martial clank,
At each leap he could feel his scabbard of steel
Smiting his stallion's flank.
Before him, like a blood-red flag,
The bright flamingoes flew;
>From morn till night he followed their flight,
O'er plains where the tamarind grew,
Till he saw the roofs of Caffre huts,
And the ocean rose to view.
At night he heard the lion roar,
And the hyena scream,
And the river-horse, as he crushed the reeds
Beside some hidden stream;
And it passed, like a glorious roll of drums,
Through the triumph of his dream.
The forests, with their myriad tongues,
Shouted of liberty;
And the Blast of the Desert cried aloud,
With a voice so wild and free,
That he started in his sleep and smiled
At their tempestuous glee.
He did not feel the driver's whip,
Nor the burning heat of day;
For Death had illumined the Land of Sleep,
And his lifeless body lay
A worn-out fetter, that the soul
Had broken and thrown away!
I am packing to go to the airport
but somehow I am never packed.
I keep remembering more things
I keep forgetting.
Secretly the clock is bolting
forward ten minutes at a click
instead of one. Each time
I look away, it jumps.
Now I remember I have to find
the cats. I have four cats
even when I am asleep.
One is on the bed and I slip
her into the suitcase.
One is under the sofa. I
drag him out. But the tabby
in the suitcase has vanished.
Now my tickets have run away.
Maybe the cat has my tickets.
I can only find one cat.
My purse has gone into hiding.
Now it is time to get packed.
I take the suitcase down.
There is a cat in it but no clothes.
My tickets are floating in the bath
tub full of water. I dry them.
One cat is in my purse
but my wallet has dissolved.
The tickets are still dripping.
I look at the clock as it leaps
forward and see I have missed
my plane. My bed is gone now.
There is one cat the size of a sofa.
Real as a dream
What shall I do with this great opportunity to fly?
What is the interpretation of this planet, this moon?
if I can dream that I dream / and dream anything dreamable / can I dream
I am awake / and why do that?
When I dream in a dream that I wake / up what
happens when I try to move?
I dream that I move
and the effort moves and moves
till I move / and my arm hurts
Then I wake up / dismayed / I was dreaming / I was waking
when I was dreaming still / just now.
and try to remember next time in dreams
that I am in dreaming.
And dream anything I want when I'm awaken.
When I'm in awakeness what do I desire?
I desire to fulfill my emotional belly.
My whole body my heart in my fingertops thrill with some old fulfillments.
Pages of celestial rhymes burning fire-words
unconsumable but disappear.
Arcane parchments my own and the universe the answer.
Belly to Belly and knee to knee.
The hot spurt of my body to thee and thee
old boy / dreamy Earl / you Prince of Paterson / now king of me / lost
Haledon
first dream that made me take down my pants
urgently to show the cars / auto tracks / rolling down avenue hill.
That far back what do I remember / but the face of the leader of the gang
was blond / that loved me / one day on the steps of his house blocks away
all afternoon I told him about my magic Spell
I can do anything I want / palaces millions / chemistry sets / chicken
coops / white horses
stables and torture basements / I inspect my naked victims
chained upside down / my fingertips thrill approval on their thighs
white hairless cheeks I may kiss all I want
at my mercy. on the racks.
I pass with my strong attendants / I am myself naked
bending down with my buttocks out
for their smacks of reproval / o the heat of desire
liek shit in my asshole. The strange gang
across the street / thru the grocerystore / in the wood alley / out in the open
on the corner
Because I lied to the Dentist about that chickencoop roofing / slate stolen off
his garage
by me and the boy I loved who would punish me if he knew
what I loved him.
That now I have had that boy back in another blond form
Peter Orlovsky a Chinese teenager in Bangkok ten years twenty years
Jo Army on the campus / white blond loins / my mouth hath kisses /
full of his cock / my ass burning / full of his cock
all that I do desire. In dream and awake
this handsome body mine / answered
all I desired / intimate loves / open eyed / revealed at last / clothes on the
floor
Underwear the most revealing stripped off below the belly button in bed.
That's that / yes yes / the flat cocks the red pricks the gentle public hair /
alone with me
my magic spell. My power / what I desire alone / what after thirty years /
I got forever / after thirty years / satisfied enough with Peter / with all I
wanted /
with many men I knew one generation / our sperm passing
into our mouths and bellies / beautiful when I love / given.
Now the dream oldens / I olden / my hair a year long / my thirtyeight
birthday approaching.
I dream I
am bald / am disappearing / the campus unrecognizable / Haledon Avenue
will be covered with neon / motels / Supermarkets / iron
the porches and woods changed when i go back / to see Earl again
He'll be bald / fleshy father / I could pursie him further in the garage
If there's still a garage on the hill / on the planet / when I get back.
From Asia.
If I could even remember his name or his face / or find him /
When I was ten / perhaps he exists in some form.
With a belly and a belt and an auto
Whatever his last name / I never knew / in the phonebook / the Akashic
records.
I'll write my Inspiration for all Mankind to remember,
My Idea, the secret cave / in the clothes closet / that house probably down /
Nothing to go back to / everything's gone / only my idea
that's disappearing / even in dreams / gray dust piles / instant annihilation
of World War II and all its stainless steel shining-mouthed cannons
much less me and my grammar school kisses / I never kissed in time /
and go on kissing in dream and out on the street / as if it were for ever.
No forever left! Even my oldest forever gone, in Bangkok, in Benares,
swept up with words and bodies / all into the brown Ganges /
passing the burning grounds and / into the police state.
My mind, my mind / you had six feet of Earth to hoe /
Why didn't you remember and plant the seed of Law and gather the sprouts
of What?
the golden blossoms of what idea? If I dream that I dream / what dream
should I dream next? Motorcycle rickshaws / parting lamp shine / little
taxis / horses hoofs
on this Saigon midnight street. Angkor Wat ahead and the ruined city's old
Hindu faces
and there was a dream about Eternity. What should I dream when I wake?
What's left to dream, more Chinese meat? More magic Spells? More youths
to love before I change & disappear?
More dream words? For now that I know that I am dreaming /
What next for you Allen? Run down to the Presidents Palace full of Morphine /
The cocks crowing / in the street / Dawn trucks / What is the question?
Do I need sleep, now that there's light in the window?
I'll go to sleep. Signing off until / the next idea / the moving van arrives
empty
at the Doctor's house full of Chinese furniture.
Unstable dream, according to the place,
Be steadfast once, or else at least be true.
By tasted sweetness make me not to rue
The sudden loss of thy false feignèd grace.
By good respect in such a dangerous case
Thou broughtest not her into this tossing mew
But madest my sprite live, my care to renew,
My body in tempest her succour to embrace.
The body dead, the sprite had his desire,
Painless was th'one, th'other in delight.
Why then, alas, did it not keep it right,
Returning, to leap into the fire?
And where it was at wish, it could not remain,
Such mocks of dreams they turn to deadly pain.
MY DREAM WAS BORN TO ME BY DAY
SOME DREAMS ARE BORN BY NIGHT!
SHE CAME IN THE MONTH OF MAY,
THE WORLD, WAS STILL AND QUITE! NOW WITH TIME ALL THIS HAS
CHANGED,
MY DREAM SHE LAUGHS AND SMILES!
THE WONDROUS LOVE, THAT SHE
EXPANDS
COMES ONLY FROM A CHILD! IF HEAVEN CAN ONLY BE LIKE THIS,
AND DREAMS ALWAYS THIS RIGHT,
MAY GOD PRESERVE HER LOVELY SOUL
AND KEEP HER IN HIS SIGHT! SHE SINGS TO ME OF LOVE AND LIFE
AND KEEPS MY HEART FULFILLED,
MY DREAMS LIKE HERS ARE WONDERFUL
AND IN ALL OUR DREAMS WE LIVE! SOME SAY DREAMS ARE MADE BY FOOLS!
BUT THIS I DO DEPLORE
FOR GOD GAVE ME THE RAREST GEM
WHEN MY DREAM WALKED IN THE DOOR!
You dream a little dream of me,
When you close your eyes.
A promise kept to remember,
So part of me never dies.
You dream a little dream of me,
Of when we were together.
Happy memories so resilient,
From all life's stormy weather.
You dream a little dream of me,
Now so sadly on your own.
But I return to softly whisper,
In dreams you're never alone.
You dream and I dream
In my dream I am with a woman.
In your dream you are with a man.
In my dream she is beautiful and small.
In your dream he is strong and tall.
In my dream she has beautiful thighs.
In your dream he has beautiful eyes.
In my dream she has a beautiful face.
In your dream he has a beautiful waist.
In my dream that woman is you.
In your dream that man is whom?
Copyright© Nadim Lost Soul
I dreamt last night; and in that dream
My boyhood's heart was mine again;
These latter years did nothing seem
With all their mingled joy and pain,
Their thousand deeds of good and ill,
Their hopes which time did not fulfil,
Their glorious moments of success,
Their love that closed in bitterness,
Their hate that grew with growing strength,
Their darling projects -- dropped at length,
And higher aims that still prevail, --
For I must perish ere they fail, --
That crowning object of my life,
The end of all my toil and strife,
Source of my virtues and my crimes,
For which I've toiled and striven in vain, --
But, if I fail a thousand times,
Still I will toil and strive again: --
Yet even this was then forgot;
My present heart and soul were not:
All the rough lessons life has taught,
That are become a part of me,
A moment's sleep to nothing brought
And made me what I used to be.
And I was roaming, light and gay,
Upon a breezy, sunny day,
A bold and careless youth;
No guilty stain was on my mind;
And, if not over soft or kind,
My heart was full of truth.
It was a well-known mountain scene; --
Wild steeps, with rugged glens between
I should have thirsted to explore,
Had I not trod them oft before.
A younger boy was with me there.
His hand upon my shoulder leant;
His heart, like mine, was free from care,
His breath, with sportive toil, was spent;
For my rough pastimes he would share,
And equal dangers loved to dare,
(Though seldom I would care to vie
In learning's keen pursuit with him;
I loved free air and open sky
Better than books and tutors grim,)
And we had wandered far that day
O'er that forbidden ground away --
Ground, to our rebel feet how dear;
Danger and freedom both were there! --
Had climbed the steep and coursed the dale
Until his strength began to fail.
He bade me pause and breathe a while,
But spoke it with a happy smile.
His lips were parted to inhale
The breeze that swept the ferny dale,
And chased the clouds across the sky,
And waved his locks in passing by,
And fanned my cheek; (so real did seem
This strange, untrue, but truthlike dream;)
And, as we stood, I laughed to see
His fair young cheek so brightly glow.
He turned his sparkling eyes to me
With looks no painter's art could show,
Nor words portray; -- but earnest mirth,
And truthful love I there descried;
And, while I thought upon his worth,
My bosom glowed with joy and pride.
I could have kissed his forehead fair;
I could nave clasped him to my heart;
But tenderness with me was rare,
And I must take a rougher part:
I seized him in my boisterous mirth;
I bore him struggling to the earth
And grappling, strength for strength we strove --
He half in wrath, -- I all for love;
But I gave o'er the strife at length,
Ashamed of my superior strength, --
The rather that I marked his eye
Kindle as if a change were nigh.
We paused to breathe a little space,
Reclining on the heather brae;
But still I gazed upon his face
To watch the shadow pass away.
I grasped his hand, and it was fled; --
A smile -- a laugh -- and all was well: --
Upon my breast he leant his head,
And into graver talk we fell, --
More serious -- yet so blest did seem
That calm communion then,
That, when I found it but a dream,
I longed to sleep again.
At first, remembrance slowly woke.
Surprise, regret, successive rose,
That love's strong cords should thus be broke
And dearest friends turn deadliest foes.
Then, like a cold, o'erwhelming flood
Upon my soul it burst ------------
This heart had thirsted for his blood;
This hand allayed that thirst!
These eyes had watched, without a tear,
His dying agony;
These ears, unmoved, had heard his prayer;
This tongue had cursed him suffering there,
And mocked him bitterly!
Unwonted weakness o'er me crept;
I sighed -- nay, weaker still -- I wept!
Wept, like a woman o'er the deed
I had been proud to do: --
As I had made his bosom bleed;
My own was bleeding too.
Back foolish tears! -- the man I slew
Was not the boy I cherished so;
And that young arm that clasped the friend
Was not the same that stabbed the foe:
By time and adverse thoughts estranged,
And wrongs and vengeance, both were changed.
Repentance, now, were worse that vain:
Time's current cannot backward run;
And be the action wrong or right,
It is for ever done.
Then reap the fruits -- I've said his death
Should be my country's gain: --
If not -- then I have spent my breath,
And spilt his blood in vain:
And I have laboured hard and long,
But little good obtained;
My foes are many, yet, and strong,
Not half the battle's gained;
For, still, the greater deeds I've done,
The more I have to do.
The faster I can journey on,
The farther I must go.
If Fortune favoured for a while,
I could not rest beneath her smile,
Nor triumph in success:
When I have gained one river's shore
A wilder torrent, stretched before,
Defies me with its deafening roar;
And onward I must press.
And, much I doubt, this work of strife,
In blood and death begun,
Will call for many a victim more
Before the cause is won. --
Well! my own life, I'd freely give
Ere I would fail in my design; --
The cause must prosper if I live,
And I will die if it decline:
Advanced this far, I'll not recede; --
Whether to vanquish or to bleed,
Onward, unchecked, I must proceed.
Be Death, or Victory mine!
EZ--
Injustice........................................ ....
Envy and ego..........................
I
........................................ ........
Accepting evil because God
moves in a most mysterious way
appears to me extremely odd.
More likely is: He’s gone away
and isn’t interested in us.
That’s why we haven’t got a prayer,
not even if we pray or fuss,
demanding that He be more fair
than He appears: condoning evil
would seem to be His major rule.
Do not blame Him or blame the devil;
to do so is to be uncool,
and blaming either of them misses
the point that even if they did
exist they don’t frequent abysses
to punish people who backslid.
Inspired by an article in The New Yorker by James Wood, “Holiday in Hellmouth: God may be dead, but the question why he permits suffering lives on” (June 9 and 16,2008) , discussing theodicy in general and Bart D. Ehrman’s “Accepting Jesus”:
Theologians and philosophers talk about “the problem of evil, ” and the hygienic phrase itself bespeaks a certain distance from extreme suffering, the view from a life inside the charmed circle. They mean the classic difficulty of how we justify the existence of suffering and iniquity with belief in a God who created us, who loves us, and who providentially manages the world. The term for this justification is “theodicy, ” which nowadays seems a very old-fashioned exercise in turning around and around the stripped screw of theological scholastics. Still, if polls are correct, about eighty per cent of Americans ought to be engaged in such antiquarianism. Union University, in Jackson, Tennessee, might profit from intense classes in theodicy. “God protected this campus, ” one of the students there said, because no one was killed in the tornadoes that devastated parts of Tennessee on February 5th. Since ordinary Tennesseans were killed elsewhere that night, the logic of such shamanism is that God either did not or could not protect those unfortunates from something that the state’s governor once likened to “the wrath of God.”…
Theodicy, or, rather, its failure, was the other major entry on my debit side. I was trapped within the age-old conundrum: the world is full of pain and wickedness; God may be jealous but is also merciful and all-loving (how much more so, if one believes that Christ incarnated him) . If he has the power to alleviate this suffering but does not, he is cruel; if he cannot, he is weak. I wasn’t consoled by the standard responses. Suffering is a mystery, I was told, as is God’s absence in the face of suffering. But this was what I was also told when prayers failed to make their mark: the old “incomprehensibility” routine. It seemed to me that the Gospels, central to my family life, made some fairly specific promises and laid on us some fairly specific obligations; yet that specificity could simply go on holiday whenever God himself seemed to have gone on holiday. (“God moves in mysterious ways.”)
6/6/08
Why should I join with those in Play,
In whom I've no delight,
Who curse and swear, but never pray,
Who call ill Names, and fight.
I hate to hear a wanton Song,
Their Words offend my Ears:
I should not dare defile my Tongue
With Language such as theirs.
Away from Fools I'll turn my Eyes,
Nor with the Scoffers go;
I would be walking with the Wise,
That wiser I may grow.
From one rude Boy that's us'd to mock
Ten learn the wicked Jest;
One sickly Sheep infects the Flock,
And poysons all the rest.
This is the story I was told – I’ve omitted
the details which might identify
and narrow down the nation,
the place, the family, the man…
It was in his teens, at school,
when the national leader arose
to bring the nation to its future,
its fulfilment, its destiny; so, like
his fellows, he joined the youth corps,
their eyes shining with ideals.
When the war inevitably came,
the time to show the world,
he was conscripted as a soldier.
He was not easy with this; killing for any noble cause
was not in his beliefs; he sought advice
in every holy book of every faith,
and knew within himself that he was right:
life is in the gift of the gods, and not of men.
One against the many, what could he do?
Should he commit suicide, there and then,
or its equivalent, disobey until he was shot,
unrecorded, unpublicised? That too,
he felt was wrong, life denied.
He decided to do just what he was told;
but at night, alone, to lay all this in prayer
at the feet of God; to sleep then and awake
with a conscience washed by that same God
who, it seemed, allowed wars just and unjust
for reasons which few men may unravel.
As war continued, this model soldier
rose within the ranks; and by an irony of fate
was chosen to be on the staff
of the death camps now being secretly set up.
How intense his prayer now became;
how testing was this time.
The details of this now are all known
(more than even those involved then knew) :
after the war, when the trials of war criminals
attempted human justice, some leaders
felt that suicide was the honourable death;
some lived in hope, were tried and hanged;
some committed to life imprisonment
to repent their life; or not.
For him (and some camp victims who survived
even spoke for him; ‘unyielding,
but never wantonly cruel’ said one)
and truth to tell, at that sorry time,
those not involved
sneered at ‘I was only obeying orders’, and
to his fellow countrymen, he was an uneasy figure
to represent their national conscience
-for him, the ten year sentence
was much the same as a (conscript's)   monastic cell;
adequate sustenance, housing, humble clothes,
and prayer.
Here the story told to me
breaks off; I cannot say
whether as a model prisoner
he won the admiration of his guards,
even the love; whether he wrote this down
and it was lost, or may one day make a book;
whether, if you met him, he would shine out
with love and truth and wisdom,
even saintliness; so that
you'd be proud to have met him; some say
that when he came out of prison, aged around 38,
he became a schoolteacher; some say, a priest;
others say, a doctor in a hospital..
I can only say, here was a good man;
and wonder how I would have behaved
had I been in his place; and whether,
as his life drew to a close,
he was even grateful in his soul
to have been so tested; and
to have known life whole.
evil has came down to earth
haunting people that nows
right from wrong
am i the the one to cause this
if i did show me prof
Am i evil for believing what i do?
Am i evil for not agreeing with you?
Can't i be right and you wrong,
maybe your weak and im strong
you never now when
you walk out of place
saying i wish i could go back
and re-take
my steps but
i want to now if
i am evil or am i not
show me a sign
that i never forgot
and then i will
now from the day
i start
what i did to be
on the evil's list
the evil is planting
his plot
showing people
that may
never forgot
what should i say
to be off your list
and what i
did to be on it
your list
but i just want to
prove you that
your wrong
and i'm right
so what should i do
to be not evil
in my way
or not
Am i evil for believing what i do?
Am i evil for not agreeing with you?
Can't i be right and you wrong,
maybe your weak and im strong
Am i evil for having dark skin?
Am i evil for not being your twin?
Can't i be white and you black,
maybe i have what you lack.
am i evil for not being like you?
am i evil for being a nail... and u a screw?
Can't i be the screw and you the nail
maybe i'll succeed and where you fail
maybe your the evil one and im the good
and ur the one whos misunderstood.
Am I evil,
For having these thoughts in my head.?
Am I evil,
For thinking things of dread?
Am I evil,
For not believing what you do?
Am I evil,
For ripping people in two?
Am I evil,
For simply speaking my mind?
Am I evil,
For leaving you behind?
Am I evil,
For trying to do things right?
Am I  evil,
For giving you a fright?
Am I evil,
For leaving you alone in life?
Am I evil,
For not wanting to be your wife?
Am I evil,
For doing the things I do?
Am I evil,
Hang on, why am I asking you?
I know a lady called misery.
That is me and my life.
I encountered an angel called evil.
She was rotten to the core.
She gave me depression.
She gave me suicidalness.
She gave me hell.
Shes an angel full of evil.
She came after me.
Within the darkness of the night.
She wants to kill me.
She wants me dead.
She'll have me dead.
Shes taken over my mind.
Shes over riden me with evil.
So innocence is just a lie
Born, broken, we die
And why
Did evil enter this world
Wearing my face?
Chaos, wind, love, all forming
But not formed
Blood star, leaking children
Eating sunlight, vomiting night
For pities sake turn on the light
For pities sake turn on the light
The world is made of many places
with different people, many races
With love and hope, joy and laughter
from morning light, to darkness after
But our world has another face
a whole other people, land, and race
It’s not always what you think
somehow those two worlds link
In a alley comes a man, eyes in anger…rage
in fury of heart he takes a knife…stabs
Freeing the evil from it’s cage
…..This is Murder
Comes a woman with a man...unwisely they’re alone
the women trust him with some pleasure…but
The consequences have been sown
…..This is Lust
Two good friends have a party….one amazing…one a dope
the dope is angry that his friend is dazing
He imagines death on a rope
…..This is Hate
A child lying, crying, dying…while his mother is beaten
hit and smashed, pushed and thrashed…while the child whimpers
His love, joy, faith is eaten
…..This is Fear
People dying, stealing, lying, no matter where they be
Pain, hate, fear everywhere, anywhere to see
A sinful world it will stay, till God, one day, returns
Destruction, death, evil…..is all the earth learns
…..This is our World…our Evil World
audible by design, cheating fate playing as life's protector
you had me fooled, with blinking and what not
caring on as, you pushed out your white powered of illness
but it did not wash my black away
my illness is but away to let me see
you planed with great care to take my life form from me~
i want only to see your good name paster all over the news
and for other to know that in your blood.... line
only hate will appear~ with money and sin taken with smilies
so that in your death other will curse your name...
and see that those that came from your fruit...
are but arsenic by design~
aka: lyricvixen
The desperate man
Just got rid of
His only daughter
Her crime
She is a woman
His reason
He has no money
To offer as dowry
Her problem
No bridegroom
Was willing to
Marry her without
Any compensation
His solution
Get rid of the problem
This was reported in
A local newspaper
how do you keep a soul pure
untainted
untouched
how do you keep ones innocence
when they are born into a home of evil
the truth is you can’t
for you learn from those around you
even when you don’t want to
you do
so how is this fair
he was never given a fighting chance
for we are born with a heart of gold
but it is but to those around you
to let you keep it
for if you live with people with tainted hearts
yours to will slowly become tainted
unless you fight
but being born into it
you can not fight at such an age
you have to trust that someone will fight for you
1.
We kept war in the kitchen.
A set of ten bone china plates, now eight.
As if a perfumed guest stole her riches . . .
The next day she wanted to leave at noon.
I said, be back by four, I'm paying you.
She sat by the door,
she put out her hand,
her knuckles knocked against mine,
hard deliberate knuckles. I gave her cash.
Off to watch movies, off to smoke ganja.
2.
She came back late and high as if my fear asked for it.
I called her junglee.
Everything went off late --
dinner, the children getting into bed;
but the guests understood:
they had servants too.
She stuck diaper pins in my children.
I cursed her openly.Who shouted?
Or I cursed her silently and went my way.
She stole bangles my husband's mother bought,
bangles a hundred years old.But she wore frayed jewelry
hawked on the street.She was like a rock that nicked
furniture in corners you'd think only a rat could go.
3.
Why didn't I dismiss her?
I don't know.
She got old as I got old.
I could see her sharp shoulder bones
tighten, her knuckled skull.
I had to look at her.It had to wound me.
Listen, said my mother. Yes mother, I listened, crouched in my head.
Looking over the flowered verandah she said:
Who are you to think you are beautiful?
What have you got to show?
Go sit on your rag.
All my life I tended to looks,
they betrayed me. I bore you.
I am wretched.Be my mother.Be my maid.
Rises in the east,
sets in the west
cheers by friends,
denounces by the law
once who taste it,
never got rid of thee
try for my heart,
why it's so hard.
no songs that i could sing,
and they are came up with real things
drugs' like crap
never bring positive feedback
desire for a fabulous life,
but who has stolen my wife
tic tac,
tic tac
we shall go,
but where do we go?
with just a glance
a small glance into your eyes
I saw your evil
evil eyes
and evil mind
I felt it in my bones
but I didn’t understand it
for you looked so normal
besides those evil eyes
such a kind smile
I thought
I must be wrong
for you are but a normal guy
for you were a pretty boy
beautiful blonde hair
that perfect smile
you had it all
everything a girl wants
and even more
for I found out
your were not just what every girl wanted
you are also what every girl fears as well
you are both what we search for
and what we run from
such a deadly combo
I should have stayed with my first instincts
for when I saw you
in the back of my head an alarm went off
it screamed evil
pure evil
but I ignored it
you changed before my eyes
but I didn’t pay attention
I ignored all the warning signs
until it was to late
I should have turned and ran
but instead i stood there like a sheep waiting at the slaughter
I just stood there
before I realized what you planned on doing
I as trapped
I was cornered
and there was your chance
and you took it
you attacked
you trapped me
you cornered me
then you attacked me
why didn’t I see all the warning signs
you broke me beyond repair
for when you attacked me
you stole something that can never be returned
as you stole it you laughed
for you enjoyed it
you enjoyed it as you torn my insides to pieces
you enjoyed tarring my body in two
you used and abused me
and when you were finish
you tossed me aside
and moved on
just like that
you changed my world forever
and you just stood up
and walked away
when you reached the door you turn
and I saw
all that I was once blind to
I saw the evil in your eyes
I saw your evil mind
I saw the smile I once thought was kind
I realized in that moment you were pure evil
the purest I had ever seen
as you trapped me
as you attacked me
I saw it all
I saw you change before my eyes
I saw the mask fall
I saw the true you
the evil you from inside
how could I have missed this
for I lay there trapped
trapped staring into those eyes
evil eyes
I could see your evil mind at work
for you were laughing as I screamed
as I cried
you laughed when you broke me
you enjoyed it
you torn my body in two
leaving me in pieces on the ground
you enjoyed it all
all the pain you caused me
when you were done
you smile and said
'I know you enjoyed it
they always do'
it was then I realized
I was not the first
and I won’t be the last
in that moment
I realized
what I had to do
I could not let this happen to more girls
for I know I wasn’t your first
and if I don’t do this I will not be your last
I now you will not stop on your own
so you will have to be stopped
for if the girl before me realized the same
I might still be whole
but instead I am in pieces
I am broken beyond repair
you stole something from me that can never be returned
so I own it to your next victim
I own it to myself to fight
to stop you
to make you pay
and I will make you pay
pay for all those you hurt
pay for everything
There's a beautiful Angel
sent from up above
but she's and evil Angel
the heavans call her love
This beautiful Angel
she falls down from the sky
looking for someone to torture
on the wings of a butterfly
This Angel seems to find you
wherever you may go
she lands upon your shoulder
and love she does show
This Angel is evil
she gives you love then takes it away
Leaving your heart always empty
for her love is never here to stay
This Angel has hurt me
many times before
so I'm closing my heart completly
It will be broken no more.
There’s a beautiful angel
Sent from above
But she’s an evil angel
The heavens call her love.
This beautiful angel
She falls from the sky
Looking for someone to torture
On the wings of a butterfly
This angel seems to find you
Where you may go
She lands on your shoulder
And love she does show
This angel is evil
She gives you love then takes it away
Leaving your heart always empty
For her love is never here to stay
This angel has hurt me
Many times before
So I’m closing my heart completely
It will not be broken no more.
The suppression of evil that lies within
all of us, is a character option, that one
can exercise or not.
© Joe Fazio
A man from Memphis went to town
There he met a pretty woman clown
He said 'How do you do? '
She said 'I do too'
And so they began to fool around
Evil days.
Jealous eyes.
The world's alive with hateful spies
Sent to see my spirit dies
Because it might be something... wonderful.
Evil days.
Haunted nights.
I feel naught beyond these blights
Upon my soul, my heart, my mind,
Left by people afraid to find
That I might be something... wonderful.
Evil days.
Wicked dreams.
Tears drench my pillow to the seams
That are frayed from pulling, pounding, and pain
That floods my spirit like poison rain
Falling from the lips of sneering foes
Who fear I might be something... wonderful.
Evil days.
Hopeful dawns.
I will arise to face these pawns
Of malicious Fate, that trembling power
That grows more nervous by the hour,
Realizing that I'll not be drowned,
I'll not be burned, I'll not be bound.
His chains can't hold me, his shackles won't hinder.
And though my heart is fragile as tinder
It has ignited with fires invincible.
One day they'll see I'm something... wonderful.
Evil doers will tear love down,
spin love round and round,
like a whirlwind.
But hold onto the love,
if one knows it to be true.
Do not listen to the lies,
deception, or untruths.
And yet, there is some consolation,
there is some purpose to life.
There is the lovely destiny,
that's waiting on the other side.
It's full of love and truth,
shining brightly as a star.
But the only way to find it,
is to follow the strength,
and beauty of the heart.
Crackle, pop, the wood that fuels the fire snaps
It falls to the bottom of the pit
Where I can again hear the coals sizzle
With my desire
My feet start to move
Then my legs
Oh man there my hand goes
Just wishing you were here
I bite my lip till it bleeds
In silence I scream out in pleasure
As I touch the point of ignition
The fire extends through out my whole body
And echo’s into my soul
I cant help myself
This feeling
This need
This desire
I want so badly
My addition
It grows as long as the fire grows
And the fire will grow as long as
My addition needs feeding
There is Something
Very Evil about him
And he calls himself
A Friend.
It is better to be
Harmed by
Foes in Life
Than be Ruined
By such an
Evil Friend.
Evil, I am calling!
Evil, do you hear?
Evil, I’m imploring!
Please – I beg your ear!
Evil, I beseech you Sir!
Evil, be you near?
Evil, might you spare some time?
Please – you must appear!
Deep in barren ground I feel a rumble and a quake:
Evil stirs beneath me now – oh how the earth doth shake!
Dark begins retreating back and gives to eerie glow:
Light of hues appeal to mind in glory of His show!
I, so truly worthy, view Evil’s phosphorescence!
I, so truly honoured,  scent Evil’s rancid essence!
Whenceforth He rose – ‘twas Evil’s phantasm!
Climax unfolds in Evil’s orgasm!
He lowered His sight to peer my form
From orbits sunk in fiery storm.
Incredulous now, and twice in awe, I
Harkened close to Evil’s roar:
‘I Evil, appear at your request!
Pray tell, of what is thine behest!
Your say must be bold, for you do not run, and
You’re evil enough – is my work not done?
So speak of your wanting, my impious serf,
To hail my cathedral so deep in this earth. ’
I pulled up with pride and pushed out my chest:
‘Though I be Man in all his great fame,
My evil is lacking – my damage is lame –
I crave for the power that you can instill, to
Heighten my evil and drive up the thrill! '
Evil stared in disbelief:
Could I see a trace of grief?
‘I, Evil, must say unto you:
I see wars of destruction – both savage and wild –
People lay dying – that’s woman and child!
All of mankind lay poisoned and green
From virus of hatred – oh this I have seen!
You fight and you kill and maim animals and all:
Much blood do you spill while you torture and maul.
You build up a town to destroy with your bombs then
Stab with your knives as you ravage your tombs!
You’re evil bar none, you ignorant fool:
I’ve no more to give – you already rule!
Evil am I - but only in noun:
You are the Lord that stands in your gown of
Evil and death – and terminal breath!
A figure is all that I am unto you –
A mirror to show and reflect
The evil in actions of all that you do:
Appeasement and love?  You reject! '
I stood there in silence to ponder his words -
And remained deep in thought ever since.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil
evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil
evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil
evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil
evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil evil
Joshua Royce Mauldin, Abbadon,
Angra Mainyu, Satan,
Asmodai, Beelzebub,
Lucifer, Belial, and Iblis all rolled into one.
Why is the guy still alive?
After physically beaten up a baby girl,
Sticking her in a refrigerator then in a microwave,
Where she had nothing but tendon and bone,
All her skin, muscle, and fat were cooked,
Why is this guy still alive?
We know what happens when stick a cup of water for a couple minutes on high,
Scalding water is what you get.
The microwaves create friction in between the molecules and thus heat is present.
Our bodies are more than 75% water,
he literally cooked her.
Why is this guy alive?
He gets 25 years if he does the maximum,
he’ll be out when he is 45 years old.
I can predict he’ll never see 25 because the inmates will take where justice left off.
Why is this guy alive?
- so he can be tortured before he is put to death by a fellow inmate.
But the legal wheels are spinning, do you want a bad joke?
Read the following if you will,
The girl's mother, Eva Mauldin, refused defense attorneys' requests to testify and lives in Arkansas. A trial to terminate the Mauldins' parental rights is scheduled for April.
(3-27-2008)
I see all who die.
I saw all who lived.
I am eternal,
Never dying,
I am evil incarnate.
God of all that is death,
God of all that is hate.
I hate love,
I hate joy,
I love sorrow.
I am viscous and cruel.
I am the twisted version of man,
And it’s lust for power.
I am the result of evil,
The poison of man.
I am  the creator of death,
The bearer of all symbols of hate.
I am the destroyer of worlds.
I am the beginning,
I am the end.
I am you,
And every one around you,
I am the poison in your heart,
The darkness in your soul.
The corruption flowing though your veins.
And you,
You are my host.
And you cannot be saved from me.
'Tis not the violent hands alone that bring
The curse, the ravage, and the downward doom,
Although to these full oft the yawning tomb
Owes deadly surfeit; but a keener sting,
A more immortal agony will cling
To the half fashioned sin which would assume
Fair Virtue's garb; the eye that sows the gloom
With quiet seeds of Death henceforth to spring
What time the sun of passion burning fierce
Breaks through the kindly cloud of circumstance;
The bitter word, and the unkindly glance,
The crust and canker coming with the years,
Are liker Death than arrows and the lance
Which through the living heart at once doth pierce.
Do you see the evil in me?
It shines through me illuminating, and spraying.
People pass me and automatically start praying.
I am not playing with what I am saying.
I believe in me, so that
means I believe in the evil inside of me.
It talks to me, and through me.
The people who know me,
don’t know what has taken a hold of me.
It’s sees for me, and controls me.
This darkness knows me, it owns me.
It shows me the way, tells me what to say.
Evil believes in me, and I believe in evil.
It whispers to me, honors me, and is ever so loyal to me.
This evil that lies inside of me.
It knows me.
This evil is me
We meet in an evil land
That is near to the gates of hell.
I wait for thy command
To serve, to speed or withstand.
And thou sayest, I do not well?
Oh Love, the flowers so red
Are only tongues of flame,
The earth is full of the dead,
The new-killed, restless dead.
There is danger beneath and o'erhead.
And I guard thy gates in fear
Of words thou canst not hear,
Of peril and jeopardy,
Of signs thou canst not see—
And thou sayest 'tis ill that I came?
On thing I admire, nay two things
always strike me as admirable:
The way evil characters always
laugh with total happy abandon
About their plots to overthrow the
world, and the way they always
love their cats, mostly white with
blue eyes – given the importance
Of joyous laughter in our lives,
people having pets living longer,
healthy lives - this phenomenon
is deserving of attention
I am thinking of a scheme to overthrow
the world so I can throw back my head
to laugh long and hard and happily,
Hollywood has this down pat
By making villains keep taped laughter
in a box – preferably on a wheel-chair’s
side  – as villains are mostly sitting there,
having lost a limb or two
They turn it on for special effect upon
pronouncing their next evil event – luckily
my cell-phone announces incoming messages
with a bout of hysterical laughter
I always irritate my wife by laughing along; the
cat I already have, an evil creature, trying to
scratch me whenever I pass - I’m sure to
enjoy all the advantages of evil
Laughter; keeping an arch-villain cat as the
basis of the evil plot that is my life!
How can you expect me to sit here,
and not say a word?
I want to punch your lights out,
I want to make it hurt.
Do you enjoy making people feel bad?
yes, you make us feel like crap.
Do you get off on hurting others?
Your a stupid friggin' witch.
While the red-stained mouths of machine guns ring
Across the infinite expanse of day;
While red or green, before their posturing King,
The massed battalions break and melt away;
And while a monstrous frenzy runs a course
That makes of a thousand men a smoking pile-
Poor fools! - dead, in summer, in the grass,
On Nature's breast, who meant these men to smile;
There is a God, who smiles upon us through
The gleam of gold, the incense-laden air,
Who drowses in a cloud of murmured prayer,
And only wakes when weeping mothers bow
Themselves in anguish, wrapped in old black shawls-
And their last small coin into his coffer falls.
there is evil in the powder room
there is evil lurking in the halls
there's evil everywhere you look
it even pentrates the walls
it cares not who it helps or hurts
it's running rampant in this place
there's so much damage being done
it's such a horrible disgrace
I am evil because I love too much,
wanting those I love to keep in touch;
I am evil that I dare to care,
evil that I'm always 'there';
evil. I invite insult;
evil; I deserve the hurt.
I am evil that I wish to protect;
I am evil that I cannot neglect
the needs, or those I mis-perceive
in those who have no need, it seems.
I am evil that I wish to say
how much I love someone today.
I am evil if I self-protect
with reason, tears or intellect.
I am evil if I should expect
love back; for I deserve neglect.
I am evil that I may press on;
for evil people should be gone.
Evil, is to hunt 'you.'
smell you.
Nameless is 'EVIL.'
EVIL, ...unawakened
slides inside 'invited'.
Out of reach, TOUCHED
bloated within your womb.
EVIL, sweats you out, in taste
reaching down you check.
Trembles, hand in night, is to
dawns wasted light, in wait
sucking you inside, to rest.
EVIL was it, 'you'it's eye to
weep 'milky'you hunger, it.
EVIL, will not wait, forever on you to
reach down, close the fold, it's now.
EVIL will never be satisfied, with one
you are 'EVIL'drawn to all that's EVIL.
Once you were civil
Until desire brought upon evil
For the sake and love of wealth
You hit good people below the belt
Don't you know what I already know?
All substantial material will come and go!
Evil is the enemy and is envious
Evil is vengeful and vicious
Evil is ill, immoral and inauspicious
Evil is loathsome and lawlessly ludicrous
Once you were civil
Until desire brought upon evil
You conceal, steal and kill
To round up your shady deals
I do not wish to intrude
Neither do I wish to be rude
But did you know as you should
That evil will never conquer the good
NOT Beelzebub, but white archangel, I
Turn the dim glass and shift the sands again,
And touch the eyelids of the sons of men
Lest they forget—forget and drowsy lie
In Fate’s unfurrowed fallow till they die—
As seed that quickens not for dawns that leap
From out the dark of immemorial years,
With kiss of wind and sun and wizard tears
Of fugitive clouds to wake them from their sleep.
With milestones I have set the crumbling sod
Of human judgement that they stray not wide,
Nor languish lost in labyrinths alway;
And smile in pity when I hear them pray
That Wrong’s rude whips from them be turned aside,
Who call me Evil—not discerning God.
I am evil because I love too much,
wanting those I love to keep in touch;
I am evil that I dare to care,
evil that I'm always 'there';
evil. I invite insult;
evil; I deserve the hurt.
I am evil that I wish to protect;
I am evil that I cannot neglect
the needs, or those I mis-perceive
in those who have no need, it seems.
I am evil that I wish to say
how much I love someone today.
I am evil if I self-protect
with reason, tears or intellect.
I am evil if I should expect
love back; for I deserve neglect.
I am evil that I may press on;
for evil people should be gone.
I am evil because I love too much,
wanting those I love to keep in touch;
I am evil that I dare to care,
evil that I'm always 'there';
evil. I invite insult;
evil; I deserve the hurt.
I am evil that I wish to protect;
I am evil that I cannot neglect
the needs, or those I mis-perceive
in those who have no need, it seems.
I am evil that I wish to say
how much I love someone today.
I am evil if I self-protect
with reason, tears or intellect.
I am evil if I should expect
love back; for I deserve neglect.
I am evil that I may press on;
for evil people should be gone.
I opened the diary of her mind,
as this dark woman, came into my life
and I turned her pages only to find,
a tortured soul that is filled with strife.
She penned on her pages in blood red ink,
closing the cover to keep people out.
She’s petrified, of what others might think,
If they read her mind and witness her doubt.
I have a lover a kind hearted soul,
who gives of himself to make her feel free
but this deranged woman will eat him whole;
my all trusting lover, too blind to see.
I need to protect him, keep him from harm,
before she extracts his soul with her charm.
Cant believe she did that
The bitch turned into a rat
Had her under my roof, protected her for 3 years
And all i have to show 4 it are empty tears
And a court case
Thats how the do it in my race
All i wanted to do was teach
All she did in the end was leech
Money...
Tme...
My good nature...
She turned into a evil Rapture
Praying on my good heart
Did a good job of tearing it apart
But im a Soulja
And i don't hide and run 4 cover
Especially not from the Rapture and her witch of a mother
I'm preparing to draw my sword
And take the head off the Rapture
That will be the kodak moment will capture
It will be slow and she will endure much pain
I yern 2 c blood drawn from her vains
And i the end when im asked
'what caused this destruction to begin....? '
My response
'It wasn't me... twas the beast within....'
And how is this destruction going to stop?
When i witness the last blood drop.....
Evil Tomatoes Rule The WORLD!
Oh no! Oh no!
They are coming!
Oh no! Oh no!
What are we going to do? !
Oh no! Oh no!
What do you do when they are coming to get you? !
Oh no! Oh no!
We don’t know what to do!
Oh no! Oh no!
Well, only the Muffins do!
Oh no! Oh no!
The Evil Tomatoes are coming!
Oh no! Oh no!
Evil Tomatoes have come to rule the world!
Oh no! Oh no!
Evil Tomatoes Rule The WORLD! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
A sense of evil lurking around
I lay broken on the ground
Forgotten in this place
That has no grace
A voice telling me
To go get that knife
Don’t put up a fight
Just commit suicide tonight
You’re already all alone
You are dying inside
So just make yourself bleed
Everyone will be pleased
When you are dead
They have no need for you
In this world
So go get that knife
Take it down your arm
Go down the vain
It is one way to kill yourself
With less pain
Please just do it
They want to find you
In a puddle of blood
On the ice cold floor
As you lay there dead
The evil still fallows me
I just sit there and listen
Taking it all in
But I can’t decide
What I should do
Get that knife
Or just sit and listen
The animal growls menacingly
Continually  lunging
Behind the invisible barrier
At my frightened
And blind chocolate lab
Hurrying to pack
This trips memory
I shiver in a
Ninety degree drive
Twenty hours round trip
Every other week
Living out of suitcases
Leaves me feeling disordered
I.N.T.J.s are seldom
Good captives…
The exception,
I am not
Reading to pass the time...
I am struck by:
“Never shall I forget those moments
that murdered my God
and my soul and turned my dreams into ashes.”
I think of the neighbor
Who electrifies
His yard to keep in
A rottweiler
And shoots at
Nutrias with a bb gun
For entertainment
And then, I understand
A bit better
Wiesel’s “Night”*
~ May 31,2006
Somewhere in the Smokies
published:
www.abovegroundtesting.com July 2006
Sun scorched barren ground
Like spreading lines on shattered glass
Cracks split wide the arid terrain
Thirsting for much needed water
What once was full of fish and plants?
Is now a dry useless river bed
Skeletal remains of life rot in the sun
Animals thirst for a dropp of life’s liquid
Garden full of beauty now withers
Limp and stringy vines droop, barren
Birds gather round to pick the last seeds
Soon move on as death has come to all
Children cry as hunger invades tiny bellies
Nature is in control nothing can be done
Warnings long ignored the evil winds blow
It bares the name of Global Warming
Be positive that is welcome
But never push away negative thought to come
Let it enter and settle down
Then you think of your own
Same way allow negative people come near
Keep no grudge or fear
They may harm no more
As you have sufficient power to counter
Never get swayed over
They may be finding excuses or cover
You must win them over
They shall be friends forever
It depends how you tackle
It is just and honest struggle
Wicked people have never won race
As they have many thing to hid on face
You are bright and shining
Every thing you are defining
In nice and convincing way
That is your style and distinct way
So keep all kind of people
Around you and in circle
Sometimes they are needed to fight evil
Evil always wins over lesser evil
A woman, made you cry,
A woman, took your breath away,
from deep within she drew your sighs,
and left you dreaming in the day.
A woman, made you play the fool,
A woman, made you bang your head,
at four in the morning, creeping like a ghoul,
wishing you were some place else instead.
A woman, laughed as you played the clown,
when you tried to impress her with your wit,
when you thought there was no one else around,
but she toyed with you, as she saw fit.
A woman, with ice around the heart,
A woman, that you never knew,
she broke your spirit, like a poisoned dart,
no, you never knew her, you had no clue.
For love of a woman, you gave your all.
For love of a woman, you walk alone.
For love of a woman, you had to fall,
a woman with a heart of stone.
5/18/10 29 palms ca.
Evil on a night like this
Evil tasting like a twisted wish
Evil paralized upon the ground
Evil tates the tears of fear
Evil tainted sounds of cheer
Evil dripping down; your blood of hate
Evil tearing down your helpless fate
Evil swears that by the night's end
Evil won't say it was all pretend
Evil because Death will follow you
Evil until full content
Evil pleasured to full extent
Feeling Evil
Evil on a night like this
Evil tasting like a twisted wish
Evil paralized upon the ground
Evil tates the tears of fear
Evil tainted sounds of cheer
Evil dripping down; your blood of hate
Evil tearing down your helpless fate
Evil swears that by the night's end
Evil won't say it was all pretend
Evil because Death will follow you
Evil until full content
Evil pleasured to full extent
There will be a time.
When good is defeated.
When lights vanish from time
When the sun does not rise to greet the next day
There will be only night
in night there is only darkness
And in darkness there is only evil
There will be a day
When evil dies
When the stars fade away
When the is no moon to light the way
And on this day there will be nothing but mist
In a world without good and evil
There is no reason
There is nothing
But people in the streets trying to find their way home through the mist hiding their way
Devastation wrought
In agonizing ill
Of God's omnipotence
..Or..Satan's will
Would...an Omnipotent God
Allow Satan's power..then
Might the Devil himself
Be some necessary sin
*
*
And 'good'....and 'evil'
...Destiny's course
Conceived and executed
..By that...Omnipotent Force
Author's Note:
'Consequently, if you believe God made Satan, you must realize that all Satan's power comes from God and so that Satan is simply God's child, and that we are God's children also. There are no children of Satan, really.'
― Anne Rice
The good wins,
On the day when there is an end of all sins.
The evil is fragile,
It can’t walk independently for even a mile.
But evil can bring sinister situations,
It can cause a war between two nations.
Such negative elements are present today,
Due to them, there is a heavy price we have to pay.
I feel very depressed,
On seeing the people being harassed,
On seeing the loss of property & life,
And on seeing the countries on strife.
People fret and fume before stepping out of the home,
A person can’t even lie on a bed thinking if there might be any bomb.
Everywhere an orphan, a helpless and a worried,
There has come an apocalypse of all good deeds.
This is really an embarrassing situation,
When I see break-ups of relations.
Now let’s join our hands together,
Hug each other and be gathered.
Let the good win again,
And diminish all pains.
Let’s take one more endeavor,
And remove the evil dirt.
Good thoughts, 'tis said, are no more than good dreams
Save they be into action put, and that
On opportunity depends. Alas!
If place and power cohered, what good were done
Which else, a babe still-born, has no way here,
But in the womb of good intention fails,
The heart's abortion! Ay, and thuswise too,
Full many a foul intent in that it has
No power or place of action is debarred
A monstrous birth. So nature haply does
In some mysterious way we do not know
Still hold the balance 'tween the good and ill
Of thought in action here, and we become
(In spite of our own selves full oft indeed)
Dispensers of a higher equity
Than the bare law of reason would allow.
And one of the elders of the city said, "Speak to us of Good and Evil."
And he answered:
Of the good in you I can speak, but not of the evil.
For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst?
Verily when good is hungry it seeks food even in dark caves, and when it thirsts, it drinks even of dead waters.
You are good when you are one with yourself.
Yet when you are not one with yourself you are not evil.
For a divided house is not a den of thieves; it is only a divided house.
And a ship without rudder may wander aimlessly among perilous isles yet sink not to the bottom.
You are good when you strive to give of yourself.
Yet you are not evil when you seek gain for yourself.
For when you strive for gain you are but a root that clings to the earth and sucks at her breast.
Surely the fruit cannot say to the root, "Be like me, ripe and full and ever giving of your abundance."
For to the fruit giving is a need, as receiving is a need to the root.
You are good when you are fully awake in your speech,
Yet you are not evil when you sleep while your tongue staggers without purpose.
And even stumbling speech may strengthen a weak tongue.
You are good when you walk to your goal firmly and with bold steps.
Yet you are not evil when you go thither limping.
Even those who limp go not backward.
But you who are strong and swift, see that you do not limp before the lame, deeming it kindness.
You are good in countless ways, and you are not evil when you are not good,
You are only loitering and sluggard.
Pity that the stags cannot teach swiftness to the turtles.
In your longing for your giant self lies your goodness: and that longing is in all of you.
But in some of you that longing is a torrent rushing with might to the sea, carrying the secrets of the hillsides and the songs of the forest.
And in others it is a flat stream that loses itself in angles and bends and lingers before it reaches the shore.
But let not him who longs much say to him who longs little, "Wherefore are you slow and halting?"
For the truly good ask not the naked, "Where is your garment?" nor the houseless, "What has befallen your house?"
But hold on a minute –
who set this league up?
Is it a fair game? Are the teams
equally matched? Have they
both got wealthy sponsors?
Can they both afford those
international mercenaries?
Is it - excuse the metaphor  -
a level playing field? …
Some say it’s the oldest
religion in the world, with
the largest number of current
devotees.. even those of us
who say we’re agnostic, atheist, or
never got the voting paper,
secretly keep its shrine, deep
in our hearts…
Saint Augustine (who once was a devout
adherent, some say never quite
threw it off, called it ‘original sin’,
‘the taint of Adam’ – that sort of thing)
blamed the Manicheans; they said
they got it from Mazda, who heard it
from a friend – or was it an enemy? …
Basically, I/you/we/they believe
there are two equal forces battling it out
out there. Which side do you support?
Well, our side of course… out there on
the terraces, we’re all united in this..
though sometimes we have a little quiet fun
being the baddies, under an assumed name…
Some say, an impartial god looks on
as they battle it out; some say,
that’s how it ought to be.. make Mankind
in your image, see where freewill takes them…
if it doesn’t work out, wipe out,
change the rules and start again…
Some say, no god looks on; it’s a fight
to the finish, was you lookin at me, scum..? ..
it’s hate, hate, makes the world go round…
It fills the sports terraces, now that
that wimpy old idea, fair play, but ref's decision
is final, it’s only a game, may the best team win,
is dead and buried…
Politicians find it very handy; when
they’ve finished rubbishing each other,
grabbed a headline and a soundbite, then
they mix good v. evil with
that other useful device: ancient primitive survival
means that we respond more quickly
to threats, than to opportunities…
it’s great for manipulating people;
so there’s an axis of evil out there – those guys
we used to support, welcomed their
extended families into East Side apartments,
took their oil money eagerly on Fifth Avenue –
now they’re a threat, we’re putting
emergency measures in place…
sorry about that, but
we’re here for your protection…
no gray areas any more,
we’re the good guys, John Wayne
played us in the film…
it’s how the West was won
by the apple-cheeked against the bad apples;
or formerly, before political correctness intervened,
from those other dark-skinned guys, who
I guess we’ll have to rename…
the battle-lines are clearcut… aren’t they? …
so as we file out from the briefing,
take care out there… and if it gets
all too much, there’s counselling and
the confessional…just in case you thought
the battle was inside yourself…
take the day off; go watch TV; and if
we lose the match, sack the manager,
or boo the ref… switch channels,
there’s an old Western on…
feel good about yourself..
boy, we’d sure miss
those old Manicheans; life would be just so dull
without a bit of drama…oh…
have a nice Thanksgiving Day..
Im here bounded for life
Come to me
Break these chains that hold me back
help me bring my life back
I know, I kno
This may all frighten you
But please free me from this life of torment
Cause if you dont I will surely die
With these final words out of my bloody mouth
Who will remember me now
Not as this decaying evil soul
That I most proudly show
But as this peaceful hearted man
That I desperatly hold withen
These two sides of me fights for everlasting control
Good Vs. Evil
If one finaly wins
Will I still be me
Or would i become pure good
And bring forth peacefull things to the end my life
Or will I become absolute evil
To remain bound to my chains for all eternity
As these being my final words
Just go and leave this hideus creature
Bound in chains for the sins he has made
Glory to thee O Lord on high
O maker of all that is holy and true
Over creation your rule will apply
Divinely inspired in all that you do
Vail of perfection
Shattered in two
Evoked by the one who gave us breath
Vanquished from high, yet spared from death
Into the depths this dark angel fell
Left unopposed as the ruler of Hell
when i close my eyes at night,
the war i just begun to fight,
visions of lights disappear,
and nightmares reapear,
shribling with fear,
that my screams no one will hear,
and all do god is near,
the devil is right here.
Copyright ©2009  Jose Murguia
Hello my name is Hate and I was born in the beginning
I'm in a competition with Love but I seem to be winning
It's an autobiography so I guess I'll tell about some of my succession
Well, I was the reason the world went through the Great depression
I traveled into the mind of the whites so they'd hate black
You know what I caused them to make em slaves as a matter of fact
I had to fight Love too, so segregation wouldn't stop
Even though I lost I made sure the whites are still on top
I dug into the mind of Cain provoking him to kill Abel
I even stopped Freedom from keeping America stable
I twisted the mind of Hitler to make blond seem great
I am the source of most pain, my name is Hate
I built Attila the Hun to be a dominant leader
I sent out deception to make his followers believers
I traveled into Pharaoh's heart so that he opposed Moses
But God stepped in but in foiling God's plans I'm still the closest
Me and Osama had a chat about how he'd bomb the towers
For a deal I kept him hiding so now he's still in power
I showed Judas Iscariot his prominence after killing The messiah
I even taught people to mimic Jesus Isiah Solomon and Jeremiah
I brought Columbus to America so it seems he made it
I asked Lie to help me so for the truth he could shade it
I gave the African American community Disease, Guns, and Drugs
So they could be looked at lower than some ripped and ragged  Rugs
I am backed up by my leader Evil so now I'm great
I am the darkness in your lives I am the Malicious Hate
Copyright 2-29-08 ©® Corey Threet
PLEASE COMMENT!
You left behind a bad taste in my life
Not unlike a cold cup of sour vomit.
You left behind a bad odour in my memory
Not unlike maggot infested rotting flesh.
You left behind a bad sound in my mind
Not unlike the screams of a tortured child
You left behind a bad picture behind my closed eyes
Not unlike the vision of a tortured nightmare
You left behind a bad feeling in my heart
Not unlike the sensation of abuse I once suffered.
You have left behind a scar on each of my senses
So that I can remember you,
Not unlike my memory of a cold, heavy, dark sadness.
March 11th 2006
The modern world seems crazy to the core;
We strike a balance in most things we do;
Money appears to solve problems many;
Muscle does some things that money cannot.
The Media makes celebrities o’er-night;
Influence guides bureaucrat’s decisions;
Merit is given a back-seat most times;
Merchants make money paying taxes least.
Most honest citizens are taxed the most;
Success smiles on men without conscience;
The righteous eke a livelihood of toil;
The lazy ones make money rather fast.
God allows ghastly crimes to happen too;
Nevertheless, both good and bad things end;
The evil-doers have a mighty crash;
God gives a longer rope to most such men.
This does not mean that dishonesty lasts;
The wicked suffer punishments on earth;
They fizzle out like soap-bubbles in sun;
Untruth can’t rule the roost on earth for long.
Reality will bring justice to all;
The day of reckoning will seal all fates;
All evil hearts can’t escape God’s judgment;
Their harm will be disclosed in great detail.
God’s mercy may not save them from Hell’s fire;
The upright souls will get rewards from God;
The God of goodness loves the righteous;
He takes them to His own Abode- Heaven.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-2-2008
HALF close your eyelids, loosen your hair,
And dream about the great and their pride;
They have spoken against you everywhere,
But weigh this song with the great and their pride;
I made it out of a mouthful of air,
Their children's children shall say they have lied.
I am an angel.
I am of no good.
Im an angel but more like a parasite.
I feed on your fears.
I pray on your insecureities.
I feed on your despare.
I am your demon angel.
I live to make your life hell.
It is a story left unsaid.
I and only I no.
I am here to destroy you.
I hate you.
For I am the angel of depression.
And i will eat away at you day by day.
One day I will destroy you.
If you look for evil good you cannot see
For your eyes only tell you what they want you in others to see
Of good and bad races you keep telling me
But your opinions are different to mine we see things differently.
I've worked with those of different races and backgrounds and in truth I can say
That people as a whole are quite good in their own way
Of different beliefs and cultures but I found them to be okay
If you show respect for others respect to you they will pay.
When you start comparing races you I do not wish to hear
your ignorance on such matters only based on your fear
Of those you see as different to you difference you cannot embrace
'Tis wrong to condemn people because of their race.
If you are only looking for flaws in those who are different to you then flaws you will find
To the good that is in them you do become blind
In this multicultural World your thinking renders you as small
One must admire those who believe in a fair go for all.
your hands of evil,
your touches of sin,
only i,
know where you've been,
touch me again,
and i will knock you down,
and you will lay there,
till by god your found...
You screwed up my life,
the minute your hand touched my leg,
i asked you to stop,
i practicalley begged,
but it wasn't enough,
you just wanted more,
so you grabbed me tight,
and threw me on the floor...
Are you glad for what you did?
are you proud of what you've done?
Do you know that what you've done,
now cannot be undone?
so burn in hell,
cos that's where you belong,
for your hands of evil,
are absolutely WRONG! ! ! ! !
In evil long I took delight,
Unawed by shame or fear,
Till a new object struck my sight,
And stopped my wild career.
I saw One hanging on a tree,
In agony and blood,
Who fixed His languid eyes on me,
As near His cross I stood.
Sure, never to my latest breath,
Can I forget that look;
It seemed to charge me with His death,
Though not a word He spoke.
My conscience felt and owned the guilt,
And plunged me in despair,
I saw my sins His blood had spilt,
And helped to nail Him there.
A second look He gave, which said,
“I freely all forgive;
This blood is for thy ransom paid;
I die that thou mayst live.”
Thus, while His death my sin displays
In all its blackest hue,
Such is the mystery of grace,
It seals my pardon too.
With pleasing grief and mournful joy,
My spirit now is fill'd,
That I should such a life destroy,
Yet live by Him I kill'd.
It’s a beautiful land
It’s a home for many
Many lived with peace
Lived with unity and love
With smiles on each face
Children play with its mud
Farms dance with its soil
Rivers flow on its bed
Flowers glow all around
Nature loves that land
Life is very simple there
Children go to school
Men and Women work
Old ones enjoy life
People lived happily
People pray in church
People pray in mosque
People pray as they wish
It has different beliefs
But all are united
Its unity is questioned
Questioned by an evil
Its name is ‘WAR’
It bombed that land
And killed everything
Destroyed homes of many
Many lived in fear
Many cried in pain
In pain of lost ones
Taken away by evil
Some can’t kick football
Some can’t write proper
Some tears can’t run down
Many got wounded
Wounded by the evil
Schools got bombed
Books got burned
Playground in silent
Kids didn’t grow up
Evil axed even tulips
Farms caught fire
Fruits weren’t picked
Rivers flowed red
Water wasn’t tasted
Evil ruined the nature
Church bells stopped ringing
Mosque no longer stands
Culture no longer rejoiced
Beautiful land is ragged
In the hands of evil
Evil, who’s name is WAR
Its only aim is blood
Blood of many innocent lives
Life is the gift of god
God’s message is peace and love
So let’s spread his message
And kill this evil forever
And free this world forever
Forever from its bloody hands
Into the hands of peace forever
justice validity was purchased
impartiality thrown out windows
righteousness politician beaten
yet the silence
is speaking so loudly
tonight so many words...
political spin writers seed lies
people line up to cast votes
voting for lesser of two evils?
Like an evil spirit hast thou
Shocked my heart from out its rest,
If thou'lt take it quite away now--
Thou wilt win my healing blest!
My heart thy temple evermore!
Thy face,--the altar's Godhead sign!
Not heaven's grace,--thy smiles, restore,
Grant absolution, joy divine!
snow is melting
in the bill
of the eagle
all of a sudden
gushed out
the dew!
peal
of the bluebell
under the hail
grandeur
of imperceptible
death
when is the muteness
the silence is
the thunder!
the tear of Christ
betrays
the bit of tear
abandoned nestlings
are being nursed by
death
fallen leaves
are for the dead
wind
the warmth of baby rats
is in the killed
rat
even if
the dropp of
dark!
to break the cage
inside the flying
hawk!
withered
tree flowers
with the flam
the triumph
of the sliding
of the tear
Dao
of seduction
of the chaos
the leap of tiger
from the tip of
the speck of dust
to save inside
in order to Execute
outside!
the killed
by roses is himself
the killer of the roses
the kill –
is the Most
tender!
the butterfly
has broken the dropp of
tear!
satori
in the state of
ash
death of the lotus
in the pose of
cobra
trembling
of the broken
webs
the beaming of the blood
on hair of
the wolf
narcissus
is full of
sap
has reminded of hara-kiri
protruded from the belly
the sword of locust
“Hara-kiri”
of the every particle of
light
the snow that
lies is falling
quicker
the clap
of fluffy eyelids of
the eagle-owl
the  snowflake
gives birth to
power!
Death –
is the most
fragile!
surprise
of butterfly among
the snowflakes
there is only the snow
in the abandoned
nest
tremble of hairs
on the belly of
the bumble-bee
it is the New
kind of shiver – without
fear!
the sudden
speed of
the wind
the appiness of the
sudden
death!
all of a sudden there is a lightning
there is all of a sudden
the thunder
the lighting has not
discerned
the dragonfly
the chasm couldn't
grip
the void
wasn't in time to sleep
the autumn
bumble-bee
the butterfly
is late for
its death
Love is so evil
There is a certain pain
When you feel it
It can make you go insane
The feelings you feel
Are at the bottom of your heart
You feel love from the very first spark
You bottle up the love and put it on the shelf
Take cupid’s arrows and shoot your self
So you feel like a soaring dove
Wanting to be with your special love
Letting the feelings take you away
Drifting you to the very next day
So love can not be all so simple
This is why love is so evil
I skipped and ran across the field
To find love so that this world can be healed
This world was hurt with evil’s knife
I wanted to fight and bring it back to life.
I skipped and ran across the field and
Bumped into a man who seemed to have secrets concealed.
I asked him why the evil always wins,
He replied by saying that evil and love are twins.
Where there is love, evil follows
In matters of love evil always pokes its nose.
It envies love and the joy it brings
Hence it attacks love and cuts off its wings.
Evil may seem to be winning all the time
But love prepares for a counter attack in the meantime.
It weaves together the broken threads
And in the backfire the mammoth of evil it beheads.
The man’s answer was so very true,
When evil takes over the world, the love comes to its rescue.
Convinced that the man was a genius or maybe even God
I asked him to permit me to fight evil and give me a love squad.
Mighty impressed with me he handed me a bag
I dug my hand in and pulled out two tags.
One said Evil, one said love
I took out the love and evil in the bag I shoved.
He asked me why I took the love and kept the evil hidden
I said because love is lacking while the world is evil ridden.
So I held on to love and gave a piece of it to everyone
Spreading love till evil’s defeat was done.
Healed world now winked at me
Love is magical did you see?
The man blessed me with a nod of approval
And titled me his ‘angel’ to take on all evil.
So I skipped and ran back from the field
Believing to have met God, a last glance towards him I did steal.
Spiritually rejuvenated with this divine encounter
I decided to spread love thereafter.
Because sometimes a little love is all it takes
To fight evil and forgive all mistakes.
God is with you, just run across that field
Seek love & God, thus shall be revealed.
(21 May,2006)
Don't listen to a word they say,
Money can't really be that way,
To say money is evil surely can't be true,
Isn't it something that we all love to use,
To think that money is evil would you have to agree
That the thing that prints it would as evil as can be!
Wouldn't that mean that the Government
Is the root of all this evil merriment,
Simply because they print all of it!
a child abused
a gift from god refused,
insanity at its peak,
makes young
and vulnerable weak.
beyond the scene of laughter
a murky cry of torture.
it pains to see,
a child humbled and scared,
with pain in the eyes,
unspoken fear of shame,
and a broken pride.
a gloom of darkness
around him spreads,
afraid to trust and,
mind never at rest,
shadow of torture
tears his being,
all his life
he sees himself dieing.
a childhood thus,
pain imprints in mind,
what ever happened,
to that glorious smile.?
a child
gift of god,
a blessing for parents,
a laughter in the home,
dont lose him,
to the darkness of fate
take care of him,
it is never too late.
An evil spirit, your beauty haunts me still,
Wherewith, alas, I have been long possest,
Which ceaseth not to tempt me to each ill,
Nor gives me once but one poor minute's rest;
In me it speaks, whether I sleep or wake,
And when by means to drive it out I try,
With greater torments then it me doth take,
And tortures me in most extremity;
Before my face it lays down my despairs,
And hastes me on unto a sudden death,
Now tempting me to drown myself in tears,
And then in sighing to give up my breath.
Thus am I still provok'd to every evil
By this good wicked spirit, sweet angel-devil.
Sinister craving pierce within
Wicked humans laugh no more
Tantalized too long from temptations
Ready knife thrust, to carve the soul
Mortal cry from fleshless bodies
Clawing their way to the ground above
The heavens weep for the children gone
Wings of heaven burst into flames
Saviours' love dies today
Choices fed the evil side
Shrieks of terror swallow the night
Demons dance to their Master's victory
Turning back is now forgotten
Welcome to the Kingdom of Hell
In these caves I've dwelled for long
The lust for blood keeps me strong
Fly at dusk, land at dawn
Evil and darkness I bring upon
It makes no difference in my eyes
If I slay for right or wrong
Selfinflicted are their cries
In the graveyards they belong
Once blessed with life, now with death
I decide to kill them all
Without them evil will fall
They have taken their last breath
Now that my job is done
Evil, there is one last one
No more peace before it's gone
I decide to wait past dawn
Is life a conflict between good and evil?
No. it is a conflict between good and
good.
One is beset only with choosing the
The best
06.01.2003
It comes oozing
out of flowers at night,
it comes out of the rain
if a snake looks skyward,
it comes out of chairs and tables
if you don't point at them and say their names.
It comes into your mouth while you sleep,
pressing in like a washcloth.
Beware. Beware.
If you meet a cross-eyed person
you must plunge into the grass,
alongside the chilly ants,
fish through the green fingernails
and come up with the four-leaf clover
or your blood with congeal
like cold gravy.
If you run across a horseshoe,
passerby,
stop, take your hands out of your pockets
and count the nails
as you count your children
or your money.
Otherwise a sand flea will crawl in your ear
and fly into your brain
and the only way you'll keep from going mad
is to be hit with a hammer every hour.
If a hunchback is in the elevator with you
don't turn away,
immediately touch his hump
for his child will be born from his back tomorrow
and if he promptly bites the baby's nails off
(so it won't become a thief)
that child will be holy
and you, simple bird that you are,
may go on flying.
When you knock on wood,
and you do,
you knock on the Cross
and Jesus gives you a fragment of His body
and breaks an egg in your toilet,
giving up one life
for one life.
When the love was great,
The pain is even greater than your mate
When the love was inseparable,
The longing will be utterly unbearable
When the love was all you ever had,
The hole and emptiness will be enough to make you mad
When the love was sacred, pure
The pain will be enough to endure
Love is evil it's true i see
I lock away my heart with a key
THE BANNER IT FLYS WITH SUCH PRIDE
HOW THEY WOULD BE PLEASED IF IT DIED
THEY LIVE TO THE SOUTH AND LOOK TO THE NORTH WITH HATE
THEY AIM TO TEAR DOWN THE GATE
TRI-COLOUR DOES PROUDLY FLUTTER
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS THEY MUTTER
THEY SHOOT AND THEY BOMB LOADS MORE INNCOCENT BODIES TO SEE,
THEY SHOUT IRELAND WILL BE FREE
THEY'RE CATHOLIC THEY'RE IRISH THEY'RE STRONG
DO NOT SAY THAT THEY ARE WRONG
YET THEY CLAIM OPRESSION THEY LOOK PAST THE SEA AND THEY SCORN
THEY FEEL THAT THEY NEED TO MOURN
THEY DO NOT HEED ULSTER'S WISH
FOR THAT WISH IS TO BE BRITISH
THEY WILL NOT STOP AS BOTH SIDES KNOW THEY ARE RIGHT
THAT IS WHY BOTH OF THEM FIGHT
A NEW BORN BABY CRIES
CRIES THROUGH CATHOLIC EYES
PRIOR THEY'RE DRIED HIS DAD CRIES DEATH TO ANGLE-LAND
NOT A CHANCE DOES THIS BOY STAND
YET THEY SAY THIS ABOUT US
A VICIOUS CIRCLE HAS NO END.
We are born with luck
which is to say with gold in our mouth.
As new and smooth as a grape,
as pure as a pond in Alaska,
as good as the stem of a green bean-
we are born and that ought to be enough,
we ought to be able to carry on from that
but one must learn about evil,
learn what is subhuman,
learn how the blood pops out like a scream,
one must see the night
before one can realize the day,
one must listen hard to the animal within,
one must walk like a sleepwalker
on the edge of a roof,
one must throw some part of her body
into the devil's mouth.
Odd stuff, you'd say.
But I'd say
you must die a little,
have a book of matches go off in your hand,
see your best friend copying your exam,
visit an Indian reservation and see
their plastic feathers,
the dead dream.
One must be a prisoner just once to hear
the lock twist into his gut.
After all that
one is free to grasp at the trees, the stones,
the sky, the birds that make sense out of air.
But even in a telephone booth
evil can seep out of the receiver
and we must cover it with a mattress,
and then tear it from its roots
and bury it,
bury it.
The Evil that men do… Part 1
It’s coming to a town near you,
For we, the men, are out to get you,
Twisted beliefs,
Living on a razors edge,
A want of the erotic,
A need so hungry, we cannot seem to fill,
Mans primary instinct,
Is still intact, after so many years,
Society tried to abolish,
The laws they try to contain,
This world we live in, is so full of pain,
Brought about by mainly men,
The act of war…
Pushing the buttons, that your son will die for…
Sent into battle, by the faceless,
He will never be the same,
We read about the war,
But never take the time,
To comprehend,
That death is a manifest that many men, dread to see,
Driven to the end, pushed to the limit,
The screams inside a mans mind, can never be heard,
Walking into that darkness, like a small child,
Clutching his favourite toy, looking around,
His wide, staring eyes,
Once was blue,
Now forever, will remain black,
After tasting the death, cast down from above,
Thrown back into society, once the job is done,
And you expect him to be the same? ?
After living the life, Of the insane...
For god help you….
there's this girl
with evil red eyes
and dark brown hair
i keep seeing her in my head
and as i rasied my head
from the toilet
i looked in the mirror
and my eyes were red
just like hers
has the demon within me
been haunting me?
I
This is the sorrowful story
Told when the twilight fails
And the monkeys walk together
Holding their neighbours' tails: --
"Our fathers lived in the forest,
Foolish people were they,
They went down to the cornland
To teach the farmers to play.
"Our fathers frisked in the millet,
Our fathers skipped in the wheat,
Our fathers hung from the branches,
Our fathers danced in the street.
"Then came the terrible farmers,
Nothing of play they knew,
Only. . .they caught our fathers
And set them to labour too!
"Set them to work in the cornland
With ploughs and sickles and flails,
Put them in mud-walled prisons
And -- cut off their beautiful tails!
"Now, we can watch our fathers,
Sullen and bowed and old,
Stooping over the millet,
Sharing the silly mould,
"Driving a foolish furrow,
Mending a muddy yoke,
Sleeping in mud-walled prisons,
Steeping their food in smoke.
"We may not speak to our fathers,
For if the farmers knew
They would come up to the forest
And set us to labour too."
This is the horrible story
Told as the twilight fails
And the monkeys walk together
Holding their kinsmen's tails.
II
'Twas when the rain fell steady an' the Ark was pitched an' ready,
That Noah got his orders for to take the bastes below;
He dragged them all together by the horn an' hide an' feather,
An' all excipt the Donkey was agreeable to go.
Thin Noah spoke him fairly, thin talked to him sevarely,
An' thin he cursed him squarely to the glory av the Lord: --
"Divil take the ass that bred you, and the greater ass that fed you --
Divil go wid you, ye spalpeen!" an' the Donkey went aboard.
But the wind was always failin', an' 'twas most onaisy sailin',
An' the ladies in the cabin couldn't stand the stable air;
An' the bastes betwuxt the hatches, they tuk an' died in batches,
Till Noah said: -- "There's wan av us that hasn't paid his fare!"
For he heard a flusteration 'mid the bastes av all creation --
The trumpetin' av elephints an' bellowin' av whales;
An' he saw forninst the windy whin he wint to stop the shindy
The Divil wid a stable-fork bedivillin' their tails.
The Divil cursed outrageous, but Noah said umbrageous: --
"To what am I indebted for this tenant-right invasion?"
An' the Divil gave for answer: -- "Evict me if you can, sir,
For I came in wid the Donkey -- on Your Honour's invitation."
This is the sorrowful story
Told when the twilight fails
And the monkeys walk together
Holding their neighbours' tails: --
"Our fathers lived in the forest,
Foolish people were they,
They went down to the cornland
To teach the farmers to play.
"Our fathers frisked in the millet,
Our fathers skipped in the wheat,
Our fathers hung from the branches,
Our fathers danced in the street.
"Then came the terrible farmers,
Nothing of play they knew,
Only. . .they caught our fathers
And set them to labour too!
"Set them to work in the cornland
With ploughs and sickles and flails,
Put them in mud-walled prisons
And -- cut off their beautiful tails!
"Now, we can watch our fathers,
Sullen and bowed and old,
Stooping over the millet,
Sharing the silly mould,
"Driving a foolish furrow,
Mending a muddy yoke,
Sleeping in mud-walled prisons,
Steeping their food in smoke.
"We may not speak to our fathers,
For if the farmers knew
They would come up to the forest
And set us to labour too."
This is the horrible story
Told as the twilight fails
And the monkeys walk together
Holding their kinsmen's tails.
II
'Twas when the rain fell steady an' the Ark was pitched an' ready,
That Noah got his orders for to take the bastes below;
He dragged them all together by the horn an' hide an' feather,
An' all excipt the Donkey was agreeable to go.
Thin Noah spoke him fairly, thin talked to him sevarely,
An' thin he cursed him squarely to the glory av the Lord: --
"Divil take the ass that bred you, and the greater ass that fed you --
Divil go wid you, ye spalpeen!" an' the Donkey went aboard.
But the wind was always failin', an' 'twas most onaisy sailin',
An' the ladies in the cabin couldn't stand the stable air;
An' the bastes betwuxt the hatches, they tuk an' died in batches,
Till Noah said: -- "There's wan av us that hasn't paid his fare!"
For he heard a flusteration 'mid the bastes av all creation --
The trumpetin' av elephints an' bellowin' av whales;
An' he saw forninst the windy whin he wint to stop the shindy
The Divil wid a stable-fork bedivillin' their tails.
The Divil cursed outrageous, but Noah said umbrageous: --
"To what am I indebted for this tenant-right invasion?"
An' the Divil gave for answer: -- "Evict me if you can, sir,
For I came in wid the Donkey -- on Your Honour's invitation."
On my wall hangs a Japanese carving,
The mask of an evil demon, decorated with gold lacquer.
Sympathetically I observe
The swollen veins of the forehead, indicating
What a strain it is to be evil.
Nay, be you pardoner or cheat,
Or cogger keen, or mumper shy,
You'll burn your fingers at the feat,
And howl like other folks that fry.
All evil folks that love a lie!
And where goes gain that greed amasses,
By wile, and trick, and thievery?
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
Rhyme, rail, dance, play the cymbals sweet,
With game, and shame, and jollity,
Go jigging through the field and street,
With MYST'RY and MORALITY;
Win gold at GLEEK,--and that will fly,
Where all you gain at PASSAGE passes, -
And that's? You know as well as I,
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
Nay, forth from all such filth retreat,
Go delve and ditch, in wet or dry,
Turn groom, give horse and mule their meat,
If you've no clerkly skill to ply;
You'll gain enough, with husbandry,
But--sow hempseed and such wild grasses,
And where goes all you take thereby? -
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
ENVOY.
Your clothes, your hose, your broidery,
Your linen that the snow surpasses,
Or ere they're worn, off, off they fly,
'Tis all to taverns and to lasses!
Adam and Eve were overcame
By Satan in the Garden of Eden
Since then man has been possessed
By an evil spirit which quite  obsessed
To tempt and drag the soul to damnation
But Jesus had given His life for our salvation.
Everyone is prone to commit mistakes
No good man is his life has never done fakes
Especially at times when something is at stake
Life, honor and love are those posted out for the take
We all succumb to temptations to Satan's evil wishes
Forgot that Jesus' s blood cleansed all our blemishes.
Everyday life's tribulations have got into our way
Filling us with sorrows, frustrations and dismay
Exciting the demonic instincts lurking inside us
Compel human to do bad things which are unjust
Becomes evil curses himself by blaming the Lord
Why man was born to hurdle the pains of the world?
Even this great mist that drowned the forest,
Relented to Him: grey billows gave, and
flanked servilely as He moved forwards -
towards me - as if passing through befogged pillars
Of a once mighty temple.
Countenance concealed in mystery, His mind
Focussed on mine: thus did I sense that bourdon
Of pure, basal tone resonating deep in my cranium.
And on those sine waves rode His message.
Glint of toneless eye caught my quaking dermis,
Telling Him of my response as I sensed further intentions -
For they stirred new and novel chills in me.
Did I not need to hear them too?
He wanted spoken confirmation unto me:
I must be sundered by His voice of gravitas -
Be audience to His prelude!
Damn His desire to reaffirm such loathed aim - I knew I was His victim!
His comportment reeked with subterfuge, but I already new His want!
And still I let Him come - what else was there?
Succumbing to His steady drift towards me - along perfect line -
I let Him impose His levy.
Soon I would be engulfed; swallowed; deformed
To a new self: what of me then?
What to do, when evil becomes you?
When we speak of good and evil we know not what we say
As we all have those traits in us or to me 'twould seem that way
Our so called honourable leaders who condemn crimes of hate
In truth only condemning what they've helped to create.
More bombings in Indonesia and Iraq and Afghanistan every day
And people dead and many left with horrific injuries does it have to be this way?
Where there is want, exclusion and discrimination only anger and mistrust to be found
And for violence of the extreme sort poverty can be a breeding ground.
When war men dropp their bombs of death on foreign cities it would be far better instead
If they dropped large parcels of food containing rice and milk and meat and bread
The results would be far better we receive what we sow
We cannot expect respect from others if respect to them we do not show.
When we speak of good and evil we only speak of how great we are
For to bomb foreign cities our Government's war planes travel far
And violence breeds more violence or so it would appear
And peace is suffocating in a World ruled by fear.
‘Cinderella’ (I’m using this pseudonym
to protect her identity, now she’s
ex-hot, ex-famous) , while sweeping, dusting,
fire-lighting, all that deprived childhood stuff -
felt that she had more to offer;
had not realised her full potential; so
in a cheap exercise book, wrote her
fictionalised life-story, suitably worked up,
in her spare moments; even, when short of incident,
setting up some neat situation with
her ugly sisters etc.
thanks to her friend Buttons who
was computer-literate, hence
his name, ha, she
self-published and, with a wand-wave from
her Fairy Godmother
by ‘sheer chance’ when her sisters had a famous critic
and, unusually, discoverer of talent, to dine,
hit the headlines – Booker Prize
in an off-year, interviews, weary book tours of the US,
life-style articles, all that,
- a gift to journalists, rags to riches story –
was courted through many photo-opportunities
by ex-hot celebs in search of  boosting their
waning reflected glory… in short,
Hit It Big.
‘We always knew
her talent’ wrote her botoxed sisters…
until one day, her Fairy Godmother
winging past late as usual and slightly
tetchy with it, reckoned that
Our Heroine had had her fifteen minutes
and wondered what to do to slap her down; until
she remembered that she’d fixed that too –
Famous First Book Novelists
have to spend the following year
while the rest of us are having fun out there,
seeing their name fade from the headlines
and the gossip columns and
the stories planted by their PR
and cutting down on the parties
and those they do go to, they
are only half-there as they watch
for 'material', as a break from
sitting at their desk while confidence
dwindles into self-doubt
and the critics sharpen up their talons, as Last Year's Winners
scrape out that Second Novel..
and the Fairy Godmother (who
doubles as the Wicked Witch, it’s
a divine joke)    chuckled in a somewhat
double-edged way, whilst checking
the time and remembering that for fairies,
arriving late increases the dramatic tension.
there’s a moral here for poets too but
to point it out would be
uncool
Yes, there is a stage
and yes, there are actors;
a script to engage;
an experienced director..
Yes, indeed, I’ll pray for you
to the One they say best deems
those matters which may bless our soul
however strange they seem;
Oh yes, I will pray for you,
as much as human can;
but, add this wish from me for you,
which is more personal:
In course of time – who knows how long? –
may you look back and say,
‘Although it seemed ungodly cruel,
it turned out well for me..’
Yes, there is a stage
and yes, there are actors;
a script to engage;
an experienced director.
The buffet opens
and no one comes.
The waiters stand around
in their white shirts
crisp as the tablecloths.
The food is the day's offering,
regardless of its fate,
and a poet
sits at his table drinking tea,
scrawling in his notebook
another sacrament of words.
What have I lost
I wonder...
And look inward.
Only my heart:
for it lies with you.
Only my soul:
for it's lost, in wilderness
abandoned by my searching self.
Only my voice:
the unspoken words
the unfelt plea
At a loss to articulate.
Lost.
Myself.
Why can't I even
find the words
to pray?
I'm thankful, though,
I still have You
Dear God,
Waiting for me...
1 July, '07
Peace fills the air as she rolls on her back
She got through it, She is alive and she thanks Him for that!
It may loom in the mind of her loved ones today
but soon it will vanish all signs of illness will fade.
Don't focus on it...for there is solace in Peace.
There is vision in health and hope moves her feet!
Then when she feels better and she starts to dream...
anticipation will fill her heart and Life will get Sweet.
For in the years to come She will begin to persist...
there will only be Faith and an abundance of Health.
There is happiness in visions that will make her fluid,
that makes her pliable, ready to change and just do it.
Written February 2008.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
A walk along a distant road
That leads where no one has described
Some have been there and tell me so
But in going they cannot say
What they saw when they went that way.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
A walk that’s leaving bright lights of
All that’s known behind
And not knowing what will be found
Walking alone not in a crowd
Along a distant road as if in a shroud.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
I know not what is out of sight
They say that once this road is travelled right
With no more journeys will I be troubled
Freely marching as to death
But only death of all that has been left.
Incandescent moonlit evening light
Will I arrive this very night
Will I surrender all I own
Am I ready, can I atone
With all this universe and most of all
With all my actions since my first birth?
Incandescent moonlit evening light
They call me back
Thoughts binding tight
I walk on simply letting go
If I arrive
Who will ever know?
I am a woman of faith
To a one true God
Depending, leaning and relying
I run to You in prayer
Whenever my soul needs searching
I am a woman of courage
whenever i am down
I maybe tired, drained and worn out
But i know I am strong
To face the situation
I am a woman in love with the Lord
A woman of faith
who believes in His love
A woman of courage
Who turns my sadness to a joyful dance
I know, i can brave the storm
I know I'll never be alone
You bring out the best in me.
To love, to care and to reach out
A treasure that will never last..
Stricken by torrential tsunami
Life has become devastated
Hope broken, wasted, and died
Devoid of ember, turning to ash.
Existence is finite, it goes
Such destiny is inevitable
Caught as victim of pain
Hurt, beaten to pieces.
Sought God's providence
Often in time of turbulence
But when life is abundance
We ignore His presence.
We have no time for God
When life so pleasant
But we cry so much
Upon tribulation.
And blame on Him
All our sufferings
For forsaking us
In death.
Within this eclipse of darkness, we overcome.
Our minds clouded in in a circumference of ideas.
Below us is the fiery temptation we all scantily avoid.
Our seas of life seem to be in a fury that we dispose.
Swirling waters around our souls waiting patiently,
Captivate dark colors that parade in the universe.
Invading us is the lava of love, the waves of ecstasy.
Rolling to the inner cells of our probable blind faith,
Though this eclipse seems to be endless in design,
Truly only moments of this, tribulation is its existence.
Tomorrow shall bring sunshine, peace, glory, to all.
Some say, blind faith, is without true understanding.
Faith and religious quests will break out blind faith.
But
Maybe
If
You
Had
More
Faith
In
You
Ladies and Gentlemen, in this corner the challenger,
Presenting Satan, the ultimate deceiver,
And in this corner, his opponent the Champion,
Christ Jesus, the Lord & Savior of all believers.
The referee calls the combatants to the center of the ring,
To go over the rules and regulations,
Jesus must be honest, sincere, by the book on every thing,
Satan can lie, cheat, steal, whatever, he has no limitations.
This is the battle we wage everyday in our mind,
Satan might win however, strength in the Lord believers find,
Ways and means to upstage the devil and win the fight,
United in Christ Jesus we climb to higher heights.
Lucifer is the ultimate deceiver; trust him not,
Through the Blood of Jesus, he can be stopped,
Even with hatred and cheating, Christ still kicked his behind,
Jesus' brothers and sisters will have life of a different kind.
Fellow Christians, we must allow Jesus to show His Love,
Through us to all of the others, just as He did because,
Love wins more for Him than hate could ever claim too,
Stand fast; love your enemies, as Jesus said to do.
This is a fight of faith, which is the ultimate test,
You must win this one to be victorious in all the rest,
Like mouse droppings warn you of the ultimate pest,
Never go into battle without the Word, your bulletproof vest.
To be the ultimate means that something is the absolute best,
Your spiritual team is undefeated then there’s all the rest,
Satan caused angels already in heaven his crap to believe,
How much harder could it be for the devil to fool you and me?
Yielding a jaw bone, Samson destroyed 1,000 not just one man,
Wrestled the king of beast, killing the lion with his mighty bare hands,
A warrior like no other before or since has a champion ever been found,
With all that might and power it took one Delilah to bring him down.
One serpent in the garden, a thought implanted, the deception began,
Even after God almighty had instructed the only woman and man,
As fighters do, dance around, stay on your toes, bob then weave,
The evil one will throw all kinds of punches to mislead and deceive.
No matter how bad things look or how terrible they sound,
Do not let the lies of the devil intimidate or push you around,
Continue to stand fast till the fight is over you and will be found,
Crowned with a victory not in shallow but on hallowed ground.
Why do you think God created so many religions?
Maybe he wasn’t thinking straight and didn’t
anticipate how annoying they would become,
always running around claiming they’re the only
way. It’s not like any of them can prove it. I believe
God would be pleased if we formed a single
religion out of the best parts of all the existing ones.
For instance, Buddhism could contribute serenity
and peacefulness. Judaism could contribute
intellectual thought and lox & bagels. I think
Christianity should contribute the music. No, not
those cheesy Christian rock bands. Gospel music,
man! Er, I don’t think we need anything from
Scientology – well, maybe some John Travolta DVDs.
And one thing’s for sure: Islam will just have to
contribute all those virgins you get after you die.
If ones faith comes by hearing
and hearing it, comes by faith.
Is it like that age old question asked?
'what came first, the chicken or the egg? '
Some times I find it all a bit confussing
all those, thees, and thous and thus!
I sometimes think I've got it, and then I think I've not!
It is all in mans interpretation
that one reads in the text.
I will interopertate what I can of it
then go somewhere and study to get the rest.
Guess God knew what He was doing
when He wrote the story of.
How the earth was formed by God and all His love.
I think He doesn't really mind
if I seek the answers questioned.
It is just God's school of learning
and another one of His life's Holy lessons.
S
So you say that God is real, my friend,
Then why is there war and hate?
And what about babies that die,
And what about their fate?
Are we cursed because we don't believe,
Are we cursed because we fell?
There may not be a God in Heaven,
But I'm sure we're living in Hell.
J
The unknown ways of our powerful God?
Well now,
How shall I explain?
For Man is only using about
one tenth of his brain
Bad things don’t happen because of God
That’s why we have free will
We do the bad things to ourselves
And I guess we always will
S
So convince me then that God is love
Convince me of it, please
Show me that he cares for all,
And that he cares for me.
Convince me that it’s not a lie,
Convince me that it’s real,
Convince me that his name is Lord,
Is this the way you feel?
J
It is not for me to convince you
For I am only man
But I’ll help you know the spirit of God
In a way you will understand
For when you open up your heart
And you open up your mind
You’ll feel his very presence and
Know that you’ve been blind
S
Yes, well then, that all sounds fine,
I’ll try, but how to start?
I could offer up a prayer to him,
But the horse is before the cart,
I think that he should call me first,
And loud, so I can hear,
But none of those pesky “thou shalt do’s”
Or how “that I should fear.”
J
God is speaking to you everyday
You have just refused to hear
Hark now at the sounds of silence
You will know that God is near
For in the silence are many angels
That crowd that empty space
It’s full of voices of loved ones past
Now living in God’s grace
S
Then I’ll walk out to the Quarry Lake
And I’ll sit and I will listen,
I’ll be most pious and I will wait,
For silence, as the waters glisten.
Then a voice “Sit still my child,
“I love you, and I will lead”
It was the Lord, I heard so plain,
It was a loving plea.
J
So you have discovered how easily
God can show himself to man
He sends the angels just for us
As part of his greater plan
To teach us how to really see
And open up our eyes
For this world is just an Angel school
I hope you realize.
S
Well, I’ll tell you this, I understand
You convinced me of his love
And I can see the angels too,
And the guidance from above.
I see it clear, he loves me too,
And will never let me fall,
And thanks my friend, you made me hear,
The silence of God’s call.
Sandra Osborne and Janice M Pickett
from the collection
The pendulum swings
Standing at the water’s edge
He was shaken to the core
For the one he loved had died
He didn’t want to live any more
He was angry at God, you see
No longer felt God’s love
He asked a pressing question
To his Lord just up above
“Oh Lord I cannot take it
I have lost my faith in you
I feel I am abandoned and
I don’t know what to do
There is hurt inside my heart
A pain I’ve never known
My life has been uncertain
I am hurt down to the bone
You see, I finally found the one
Who made my life complete
And you took her Lord
You laid this pain at my feet”
And as the words he spoke
At the sunset water's edge
His heart took on a change
And to God he suddenly pledged
“I feel you in my heart now
You’ve never left my side
I’ll do the best I can, Lord
My faith has turned the tide”
So if you lose someone
And you feel this kind of pain
Hang on tightly to your faith
Let your love of God remain!
I doubt you will read this
I don’t believe this is of any use
I can’t concede this is a worthy verse
I don’t think I could do any worse
I never will be right
When I just can’t see any light
When I am so unclear
When I am far from your love
When I am gripped by fear
I never will be true
If I do not have faith in You.
I cannot tell if God exist
But I believe God does
I cannot say God is this or that
But I feel Gods presence
I cannot prove what I believe
But I cannot disprove God
My religion taught me
About God who is a loving father
But some say God is like a mother
Few even claim I am a dreamer
For someone beyond truth and reality
Creation of reason for beauty
But what can I say
Deep in my heart God I see
Even if formless like nothingness
Yet day and night feel my senses
Too near yet so far I know it
But my friend to God I only trust
(Cebu City, Philippines 2004)
i have a dream
or a dream dreams me
i have hope
a hope that is for me
i have faith
a faith that's not in me
i have love
a love for all i see.
I had a dream
a dream that dreamed me.
I had hope
a hope that hoped for me.
I had faith
a faith in I, in me.
I is love
a love which joins I
with all that i can see.
The deep cracks in the parched earth
Inflicted by the harsh rays of the sun
Lift their gaze on empty skies above
In hope of the heavenly flicker
That would rejuvenate them.
(22nd September 2006)
We walked
Across a burned island
God washed our world
with love until it grows
to be delicious
every innocence
The winter wind is loud and wild,
Come close to me, my darling child;
Forsake thy books, and mateless play;
And, while the night is gathering grey,
We'll talk its pensive hours away;--
'Ierne, round our sheltered hall
November's gusts unheeded call;
Not one faint breath can enter here
Enough to wave my daughter's hair,
And I am glad to watch the blaze
Glance from her eyes, with mimic rays;
To feel her cheek so softly pressed,
In happy quiet on my breast.
'But, yet, even this tranquillity
Brings bitter, restless thoughts to me;
And, in the red fire's cheerful glow,
I think of deep glens, blocked with snow;
I dream of moor, and misty hill,
Where evening closes dark and chill;
For, lone, among the mountains cold,
Lie those that I have loved of old.
And my heart aches, in hopeless pain
Exhausted with repinings vain,
That I shall greet them ne'er again!'
'Father, in early infancy,
When you were far beyond the sea,
Such thoughts were tyrants over me!
I often sat, for hours together,
Through the long nights of angry weather,
Raised on my pillow, to descry
The dim moon struggling in the sky;
Or, with strained ear, to catch the shock,
Of rock with wave, and wave with rock;
So would I fearful vigil keep,
And, all for listening, never sleep.
But this world's life has much to dread,
Not so, my Father, with the dead.
'Oh! not for them, should we despair,
The grave is drear, but they are not there;
Their dust is mingled with the sod,
Their happy souls are gone to God!
You told me this, and yet you sigh,
And murmur that your friends must die.
Ah! my dear father, tell me why?
For, if your former words were true,
How useless would such sorrow be;
As wise, to mourn the seed which grew
Unnoticed on its parent tree,
Because it fell in fertile earth,
And sprang up to a glorious birth--
Struck deep its root, and lifted high
Its green boughs, in the breezy sky.
'But, I'll not fear, I will not weep
For those whose bodies rest in sleep,--
I know there is a blessed shore,
Opening its ports for me, and mine;
And, gazing Time's wide waters o'er,
I weary for that land divine,
Where we were born, where you and I
Shall meet our Dearest, when we die;
From suffering and corruption free,
Restored into the Deity.'
'Well hast thou spoken, sweet, trustful child!
And wiser than thy sire;
And worldly tempests, raging wild,
Shall strengthen thy desire--
Thy fervent hope, through storm and foam,
Through wind and ocean's roar,
To reach, at last, the eternal home,
The steadfast, changeless, shore!'
Hope is forever dreaming
Faith is forever pure
While charity weighs up its lot
So its life it can endure.
Hope is forever youthful
Faith has no greying hair
While charity is ageless
So it is forever there.
For faith and hope and charity
Are of each of us a part
The measures there between them
Are what balances our heart.
faith is
Your finger and
hands...
faith is
your mouth and
ears...
faith is
Your eyes and
Brain...
faith is
your love and loves
faith is
your god and life
faith is not only tommrow
Today also...
Live faith fully with love yoou
And other's...
Charity it found me
Faith it held me
Hope it kept me
All of the three
Set me free
A little boy needed an operation that his parents couldn't afford.
They didn't have much money but they had faith in the Lord.
The boy was terminally ill and he grew very frail.
But his parents never lost faith and he eventually got well.
Now he's in complete remission thanks to the Lord.
Their prayers and faith brought about this wonderful reward.
185
"Faith" is a fine invention
When Gentlemen can see—
But Microscopes are prudent
In an Emergency.
faith is Nile's flood
setting ground  for grace
faith - it flies in and out
a mother bird divides feed
the blessed a bushel
the others little by little
the almighty plays a game of chess -
-  listens to spiritual  music -
- and hums his heavenly nursery rhyme
that calms terrified earthly souls -
faith is Nile's flood that springs silent cheers from heart to heart
inspired by
'Faith' is a fine invention
When Gentlemen can see—
But Microscopes are prudent
In an Emergency.
Emily Dickinson
915
Faith—is the Pierless Bridge
Supporting what We see
Unto the Scene that We do not—
Too slender for the eye
It bears the Soul as bold
As it were rocked in Steel
With Arms of Steel at either side—
It joins—behind the Veil
To what, could We presume
The Bridge would cease to be
To Our far, vacillating Feet
A first Necessity.
GREY dawn—and lucent star that slowly paled
Beyond the breaking splendour of the years,
When boyhood’s heart looked up to heaven, through tears
Of joy, to see the glory of God unveiled:
High noon—and bridal earth, whose footsteps failed
For very love—when passionate hopes and fears
Dazzled the flowers, made music in the ears,
And through the trancéd wood their splendour trailed.
Calm eventide—afar the lonely west
Dreams of the wondrous day, and dreaming, lies
With folded hands, still lips, and weary eyes
Searching the shadows of eternal rest:
Childhood, and youth, and age—for each a prize,
Faith—Love—and Death—I know not which is best.
At first you will know not what they mean,
And you may never know,
And we may never tell you: --
These sudden flashes in your soul,
Like lambent lightning on snowy clouds
At midnight when the moon is full.
They come in solitude, or perhaps
You sit with your friend, and all at once
A silence falls on speech, and his eyes
Without a flicker glow at you: --
You two have seen the secret together,
He sees it in you, and you in him.
And there you sit thrilling lest the Mystery
Stand before you and strike you dead
With a splendor like the sun's.
Be brave, all souls who have such visions!
As your body's alive as mine is dead,
You're catching a little whiff of the ether
Reserved for God Himself.
The trust that happens
as night to the sky
Looking into  the darkness
as  the cries of  the pain
Falling as the dew
as tears of love
And I shine in wetting
as the rain of faith in trust
as the light of faith
tunes to the faith of love
yet intense leading the love
like a rising sun in the sky
If your Fate is Sealed...
Where will it be to be Found?
In your Heart, In your Mind or on this Article?
In your Soul, Your Believes or on a diamond?
You Can Tyler, Mark Land!
FAITH OR FATE?
Melvin Banggollay
Faith or Fate or anybody else
can define one's life quest?
Faith, when we truly believed
That we can surely received
all the wants we conceived
With mercy of God we prayed.
Fate, when we truly believed
That we can surely receive
All that we want to perceive
if we're destined to receive
Fate, is a matter of destiny
To take its course or way
Faith, is a matter of an ability
sailing to complete the journey.
And is the great cause lost beyond recall?
Have all the hopes of ages come to naught?
Is life no more with noble meaning fraught?
Is life but death, and love its funeral pall?
Maybe. And still on bended knees I fall,
Filled with a faith no preacher ever taught.
O God -- MY God -- by no false prophet wrought --
I believe still, in despite of it all!
Let go the myths and creeds of groping men.
This clay knows naught -- the Potter understands.
I own that Power divine beyond my ken,
And still can leave me in His shaping hands.
But, O my God, that madest me to feel,
Forgive the anguish of the turning wheel!
Faith is the light of the next step
Illuminating a way ahead,
Without revealing the direction.
Faith will sustain, and comfort
Through our darkest hours.
Faith upholds the unseen hope,
It is the seasoning that endures,
the pain of life whilst revealing
that misery can be optional.
Faith is a light in the darkness,
Surrounded, yet not consumed.
In the storms of our lives
Faith is the stillness, seated at
The rear of our boat.
My friend is praying for you Lord
He needs you in his heart
So please Lord
Enter my friends heart right now
Because tomorrow will be too late
And I want you to
Find your faith in the Lord my friend
Be courageous my friend
And have faith in the Lord my friend
Because
Heaven is waiting for you right now my friend
And I wish you
Farewell my friend
And I hope that you
Will
Find your faith in the Lord my friend
Please
Be a good servant to the Lord my friend
My friend will you praise the Lord today?
faith is believing
faith is being strong
faith is being believeable
faith is believing in what you can become
faith is believing god and what he can do for you
We hold our faith
close to our chest
and will never let it go,
after all, it is the way we live our lives,
our judgements and our calls.
The way that we walk,
that makes us tall.
It is our future hope;
we have to get us through,
the disappointments and temptations
that come our way.
(18 September 2007)
'Faith' is a fine invention
When Gentlemen can see—
But Microscopes are prudent
In an Emergency.
Lord, how couldst thou so much appease
Thy wrath for sin, as when man's sight was dim,
And could see little, to regard his ease,
And bring by Faith all things to him?
Hungry I was, and had no meat:
I did conceit a most delicious feast;
I had it straight, and did as truly eat,
As ever did a welcome guest.
There is a rare outlandish root,
Which when I could not get, I thought it here:
That apprehension cur'd so well my foot,
That I can walk to heav'n well near.
I owed thousands and much more.
I did believe that I did nothing owe,
And liv'd accordingly; my creditor
Believes so too, and lets me go.
Faith makes me any thing, or all
That I believe is in the sacred story:
And where sin placeth me in Adam's fall,
Faith sets me higher in his glory.
If I go lower in the book,
What can be lower than the common manger?
Faith puts me there with him, who sweetly took
Our flesh and frailty, death and danger.
If bliss had lien in art or strength,
None but the wise or strong had gained it:
Where now by Faith all arms are of a length;
One size doth all conditions fit.
A peasant may believe as much
As a great Clerk, and reach the highest stature.
Thus dost thou make proud knowledge bend and crouch
While grace fills up uneven nature.
When creatures had no real light
Inherent in them, thou didst make the sun
Impute a lustre, and allow them bright;
And in this show what Christ hath done.
That which before was darkned clean
With bushy groves, pricking the looker's eye,
Vanisht away, when Faith did change the scene:
And then appear'd a glorious sky.
What though my body run to dust?
Faith cleaves unto it, counting ev'ry grain
With an exact and most particular trust,
Reserving all for flesh again.
Can people have faith in eachother?
Do creatures trust themselves?
Is faith overrated?
A lot of questions, so little time
F A I T H
to have faith
faith in the poor
faith in the rich
faith in the animals who have faith in us
live up to expectations
have faith that you'll make it to the end
Faith will be with you
Faith and destiny
is it the same?
Faith or destiny will show us
show you and show me..
Faith's no legs
So can not walk
Nor has any wings
So can not fly
Immature and tiny
Incubate in heart
Safe-guard to safe-guard
Rooted deep in allegiance
To break open light
In vision, listen, speech
In every disability
Of even on infernal-couch
For faith's now grown with wings
'Hope and confidence'
When She returns to the woods,
Or the dream that is Her creator
It is the late afternoon.
Her exit beckons the coming dusk
And leaves me with a most excrutiating tremor
In the depth of my being
That She could somehow know me
Yet not be able to sit and chat
Yet I know Her, and that will have to suffice,
Until I solve this permanent mystery.
She comes as a breeze each day around noon,
The highest leaves of the trees bristle
With a shiver of anticipation,
In the heat of these special moments
She raises Her voice, as a sustained wind bends
The branches holding the leaves,
I marvel that those branches
Willingly bending with Her breath,
Never breaking.
From this wind comes the slight force of Her questions
Carried for how many miles
By the voice of Her unending curiosity,
I fancy Her soft pondering to be evidence
Of Her sensuous presence.
Her questions are never blunt or overbearing
So that even all evil defers to Her ease.
We sit together each late afternoon
As I rekindle my love of Her voice
Its sweetest rhythm, Its sensitive knowing
And I revel in my own reflection,
Thanks to a breeze with a voice
That is, to me, a person
Yet to others I must surely seem insane with each coming season.
Her exit beckons the coming dusk
And leaves me with a most excrutiating tremor
In the depth of my being
That She could somehow know me
Yet not be able to sit and chat,
Yet I know Her, and that will have to suffice.
Then She returns to the woods,
Or the dream that is Her creator,
As the dusk descends softly
She blows me a kiss.
People call it a believe
Some call it tolerance
But faith justified a person
By faith we are sanctified
And experience joy
By faith we became
Free from condemnation
Faith gives us assurance and fulfillment
Cos faith without work is dead
Live by faith
Walk by faith
Continue in faith
Do everything by faith
Grow in faith
Demonstrate faith by good works
Combine faith with hope and love.
When you want something bad,
And it can’t be had
You feel sad
And at times mad.
At times there is no choice,
And to maintain your poise
You have to say yes to what is
And restore your mental peace.
You have to go down deep
And then take a giant leap,
To be aware of what is
There are times when you have to give life a miss.
Once the negativity is released,
You reclaim your natural ease.
Now is the only moment you can live
You finally come to believe.
Faith as small as a mustard seed
Is all you really need.
Let your hope rest on the faith
he has placed in your heart.
Never give up never let go.
He can lead you by the still waters,
Quietly restoring your soul.
He speak words of wisdom,
The promise of glory.
Trust him you'll see He's got all
The power you need.
He never early, never late
It take courage and it takes faith.
He got all the power you need.
He saves forgives and heals,
He takes back what the devils steals.
Your debt's been paid in full
And everyday he does Miracles.
Got dreams turn them into plans,
too big for human hands.
Trust him you'll see, you got
all you need.
Real faith's a lot stronger than what you feel
He's real! I'm believing for Miracles.
28. December 2007
Faith on which one can live whole life
Faith on which one can keep hopes alive
Faith on which one can build confidence
Faith on which one can overcome encumbrance
Faith on which one can strengthen determination
Faith on which one can accomplish aspiration
Faith on which one can take dream to reality
Faith on which one can continue to live with ecstasy
Faith on which one can gain even after loosing
Faith on which one can refill the color in life by proving
Faith on which one can fight against injustice
Faith on which one can rest in paradise & peace
Faith in good faith becomes stronger & stronger
God will not be able to hold much longer & do wonder
The stillness after the destructive storm.
The healing of a broken heart.
The birth of healthy baby.
The moving of leaves on a still warm day.
The chirping of birds after long night.
The calming words of a pastor after you sin.
The smile on your mother's face, when I walk in.
The 'you got mail' sign after a long quiet spell.
you are there
i know
&
you are here now
i very well know with all my eyes closed
my heart now opens
&
doubt is always
behind you
taunting
Since all that is was ever bound to be;
Since grim, eternal laws our Being bind;
And both the riddle and the answer find,
And both the carnage and the calm decree;
Since plain within the Book of Destiny
Is written all the journey of mankind
Inexorably to the end; since blind
And mortal puppets playing parts are we:
Then let's have faith; good cometh out of ill;
The power that shaped the strife shall end the strife;
Then let's bow down before the Unknown Will;
Fight on, believing all is well with life;
Seeing within the worst of War's red rage
The gleam, the glory of the Golden Age.
Feed your faith and starve your doubt,
Confess the Lord Jesus with your mouth,
Praise His holy name with a shout,
Drive the demons of the devil out.
First and foremost read the word,
Speak it aloud to be sure it’s heard,
Don’t be like Peter starting to cuss & swear,
Tell the world you know Jesus is there.
Doubt is deceitful and doubt is doom,
Doubt is defeated and doubt is gloom,
Faith is victory and faith is success,
Faith is the word and it brings out the best.
Imagine the Colts or Steelers being 0 & 16,
Is it sinking in now, understand what I mean?
How about the New York Yankees at 0 & 162?
What other way can I make it clearer to you?
Faith is not something you buy and exchange,
God wants it permanently stamped on your brain,
D is for the devil that wants you to deny,
Satan is jealous he’s already lost eternal life.
Faith is a trait the devil can no longer possess,
He’s already been given and failed his test,
Satan doesn’t doubt God’s love being true,
This is why he’s trying so hard to defeat you.
He tried to overthrow the Commander In Chief,
Failing miserably Satan wants more to share his grief,
Sadly, too many don’t believe Narrow is the Gate,
And all you need to do is have God given faith.
Is it possible that we are so twisted
there is no salvation for any of us,
and that ideas have become wingless
in an age of winged rockets?
Is it possible that a crippled birch,
bending over to the last river,
will see the last man
in its boiling water?
Is it possible there’ll be no Big Ben,
Saint Basil’s, or Notre Dame
and that neutron foam will gush
over our final steps?
But that planet, cherry trees,
birds, and children will perish,
I don’t believe. This disbelief
is my final faith.
Skull after skull will not
be piled up in towers again.
The final Nuremberg approaches us
before, not after the war.
And the last soldier on earth
will throw his shoulder strap in a stream,
and watch how peacefully
dragonflies sit on it.
All rascality will end.
All people will understand-we are a family.
The last government
will abolish itself.
The last exploiter,
opening his toothless mouth,
will gobble the last money
furtively like a delicacy.
The last cowardly editor
will be doomed forever
to read from the stage in sequence
everything that he destroyed.
So that the last bureaucrat
can rest and be silent,
his gullet will be stuffed in payment
with the last rubber stamp.
And the earth will turn
without fear of the last years,
there never will be born
the last great poet.
A happy man is he who's found a lass that he can love...
As if by beauty he's been bound yet wouldn't shake her off!
Her lips like magnets draw him close till he looks in her eyes!
What happens next God only knows for eyes can hypnotise!
Each word she says he dotes upon as if she were sublime!
He'll write her poems signed Anon and pray for every rhyme!
He'll offer chockies, roses, too, and orchids from a shop!
He'll send her cards marked I love you! , heart pounding pitter-pop!
He'll watch her lips, as if a hawk, perchance to try his luck!
Then suddenly, no chat, no talk, as courage he must pluck!
Not now! Not now! Ooh, maybe soon! Ooh, coulda been! Too late!
Yet if they kissed, perhaps he'd swoon! That wouldn't look too great!
His pitter-pop is racing now! He's focussed, that's for sure!
Yes, pretty soon, he'll slowly bow in search of sweet amour!
It's time! It's time! Their first kind kiss! He's fainted clean away!
To see his smile, he'll die of bliss! God let him live! Oi, vey!
Said I: "See yon vast heaven shine,--
What earthly sight diviner?
Before such radiant Design
Why doubt Designer?"
Said he: "Design is just a thought
In human cerebration,
And meaningless if Man is not
Part of creation.
"But grant Design,--we may imply
The job took toil aplenty;
Then why one sole designer, why
Not ten or twenty.
"But should there be one Source supreme
Of matter and of motion,
Why mould it like our man-machine
For daft devotion?"
Said I: "You may be right or wrong,
I'll seek not to discover . . .
I listen to yon starry song,--
Still, still God's lover."
Once for the sceptre of Germany, fought with Bavarian Louis
Frederick, of Hapsburg descent, both being called to the throne.
But the envious fortune of war delivered the Austrian
Into the hands of the foe, who overcame him in fight.
With the throne he purchased his freedom, pledging his honor
For the victor to draw 'gainst his own people his sword;
But what he vowed when in chains, when free he could not accomplish,
So, of his own free accord, put on his fetters again.
Deeply moved, his foe embraced him,--and from thenceforward
As a friend with a friend, pledged they the cup at the feast;
Arm-in-arm, the princes on one couch slumbered together.
While a still bloodier hate severed the nations apart.
'Gainst the army of Frederick Louis now went, and behind him
Left the foe he had fought, over Bavaria to watch.
"Ay, it is true!  'Tis really true!  I have it in writing!"
Thus did the Pontifex cry, when he first heard of the news.
I offer all I am or will ever be,
My prayers, deeds, the all of me
To serve and give to my Dear Lord,
Thru soul bound to Him by Silver-Cord
Some day He'll reach down a Loving Hand,
When Heaven calls, I'll leave this land
Rising up on snowy wings,
Go home at last, as Angels' sing
Songs of freedom, joy and mirth,
As I ascend to that special place,
Not far from Mother Earth
Have a faith in God
then he will show you the way to live in serenity
Do not fear to knock at his door
because your faith will answer through him
Show your availability to him
then he will give you his ability
Give your heart and soul to him
then he will keep you away from all the sins
Make your life filled with faith
then he will fill your life with love and affections
Make God to give you strength when you are weak
then you will be free from all your pain
Have a long journey with God
then you will be learning the truth of heaven
Make God to belief your truth that held in your mind
then he will be rewarding you for your integrity
Remember, when you have a dark day then he
will be there for you with a candle to bright your soul
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2005 Ravi Sathasivam
When the road gets dark
And you can no longer see
Just let my love throw a spark
And have a little faith in me
And when the tears you cry
Are all you can believe
Just give these loving arms a try
And have a little faith in me
And
Chorus:
Have a little faith in me
Have a little faith in me
Have a little faith in me
Have a little faith in me
When your secret heart
Cannot speak so easily
Come here darlin’
From a whisper start
To have a little faith in me
And when your back’s against the wall
Just turn around and you will see
I will catch, I will catch your fall baby
Just have a little faith in me
***This is a song thats one of my favorits of all time i heard it on the movie 'Benny and Joon' and have loved it ever since.***
Have faith in yourself
Things will turn right
For you
You are being
Too hard
On yourself
Have faith! But not to touch it
Not to hold it like I hold this pen-
Just have faith-
Even amidst the treason
Even amidst the doubt
Even in the face of that glaring question
'Does he really exists? '
Have Faith!
Have Faith! Thats the only answer
The end of every discussion over it
Just have faith-
It was never proved and established,
It will never be proved and established
It won't ever become a fact
That is why they say-
Have faith.
Have faith its not a dogma
Live it as a way of life not rituals
Just have faith-
Its a life long struggle to assert it
Its an unquenched thirst to believe in it
Its an unending search of a bodyless soul
Will always remain unsatisfied so-
Have faith!
Have faith but don't renounce for it
Instead endeavor to achieve and-
Just have faith-
That the endeavors will be successful
That they will breed more dreams to chase
That achieving is also a faith
But does not require conquering
Have faith!
Have Faith but not to fight atheism
That again is another face of faith
Just have faith-
To believe that the Ideal exists
To follow the Ideal, not to preach
To emulate the Ideal to the nearest possible
That is the purpose of all faiths
So have faith!
497
He strained my faith—
Did he find it supple?
Shook my strong trust—
Did it then—yield?
Hurled my belief—
But—did he shatter—it?
Racked—with suspense—
Not a nerve failed!
Wrung me—with Anguish—
But I never doubted him—
'Tho' for what wrong
He did never say—
Stabbed—while I sued
His sweet forgiveness—
Jesus—it's your little "John"!
Don't you know—me?
God, if this were enough,
That I see things bare to the buff
And up to the buttocks in mire;
That I ask nor hope nor hire,
Nut in the husk,
Nor dawn beyond the dusk,
Nor life beyond death:
God, if this were faith!
Having felt thy wind in my face
Spit sorrow and disgrace,
Having seen thine evil doom
In Golgotha and Khartoum,
And the brutes, the work of thine hands,
Fill with injustice lands
And stain with blood the sea:
If still in my veins the glee
Of the black night and the sun
And the lost battle, run:
If, an adept,
The iniquitous lists I still accept
With joy, and joy to endure and be withstood,
And still to battle and perish for a dream of good:
God, if that were enough!
If to feel, in the ink of the slough,
And the sink of the mire,
Veins of glory and fire
Run through and transpierce and transpire,
And a secret purpose of glory in every part,
And the answering glory of battle fill my heart;
To thrill with the joy of girded men
To go on for ever and fail and go on again,
And be mauled to the earth and arise,
And contend for the shade of a word and a thing
not seen with the eyes:
With the half of a broken hope for a pillow at night
That somehow the right is the right
And the smooth shall bloom from the rough:
Lord, if that were enough!
I had faith in his word
And it failed me
I had faith in my friends
They left me
I had faith in the mirror
It shattered on me
I had faith in justice
It hurt me
I had faith in the world
It laughed at me
I had faith in my family
They turned their back on me
But I'm not disappointed in them
More of myself
You see I had faith in my strength
It crumbled before me
I had faith in my mind
It stopped working on me
I had faith in me
I failed on myself
When the soft sweet wind o' the south went by,
I dwelt in the light of a dark brown eye;
And out where the robin sang his song,
We lived and loved, while the days were long.
In the sweet, sweet eves, when the moon swung high,
We wandered under the starry sky;
Or sat in the porch, and the moon looked through
The latticed wall where the roses grew.
My lips, that hd no lover's kiss,
You taught the art, till they trilled in bliss;
And the moon, and the stars, and the roses knew
That the heart you won was pure and true.
But true hearts weary men, maybe,
For you grew weary of love, and me.
Over the porch the dead vines hang,
And a mourning dove sobs where the robin sang.
In a warmer clime does another sigh
Under the light of your dark brown eye?
Did you follow the soft sweet wing o' the south,
And are you kissing a redder mouth?
Lips may be redder, and eyes more bright;
The face may be fairer you see to-night;
But never, love, while the stars shall shine,
Will you find a heart that is truer than mine.
Sometime, perhaps, when south winds blow,
You will think of a love you used to know;
Sometime, perhaps, when a robin sings,
Your heart will go back to olden things.
Sometime you will weary of this world's arts,
Of deceit and change and hollow hearts,
And, wearying, sigh for the 'used to be, '
And your feet will turn to the porch, and me.
I shall watch for you here when days grow long;
I shall list for your step through the robin's song;
I shall sit in the porch where the moon looks through,
And a vacant chair will wait - for you.
You may stray, and forget, and rove afar,
But my changeless love, like the polar star,
Will draw you at length o'er land and sea -
And I know you will yet come back to me.
The years may come, and the years may go,
But sometime again, when south winds blow,
When roses bloom, and the moon swings high,
I shall live in he light of your dark brown eye.
Just a little faith can light your path
When everything seems dark,
Just a faith can push you forward
To achieve a higher mark..
Just a little faith can move a mountain
From its place
Just a little faith can assure you that
Life's challenges you CAN face..
Just a little faith can give you the courage
To reach your dream
Just a little faith can restore you confidence
and self esteem
Just a little faith can allow you to soar
Above the sky
Just a little faith can make you never give up,
and try, try and try, ,
Just a little faith can pull you up,
From rock bottom, straight to the top
Just a little faith can make a dying person
Once more alive
In a world which treats us as though we're nothing,
Just a little faith can make us SURVIVE........
Bless! !
A mother's job is to shelter.
A mother's job is to care.
It's my pleasure to do these things for you,
and enjoy the life we share.
Problems may surround us
and try to keep us down.
But, I will never give up the faith
on the love that we have found.
Our family is precious.
To me, there is no end.
Not only are you my children,
You also are my friends.
I know you will be happy.
I know you'll set your mind
to go after the success in life
only a good person can find.
Don't let them tell you different.
Don't let them break your stride.
Don't let their hatred hurt you.
Remember...you have pride.
A simple case of lack of faith
When you should really have enthused..
And love me and trusted me
Because I am your muse
But you didn't, quite obviously
You chose to choose another's words
Well, then hell, what am I
Who am I to argue?
Nothing, but a wilting flower
And that stream that has no-where to go
Undulating, not crystal clear
Muddied with false hope.
The Lord receives his highest praise
From humble minds and hearts sincere;
While all the loud professor says
Offends the righteous Judge's ear.
To walk as children of the day,
To mark the precepts' holy light,
To wage the warfare, watch, and pray,
Show who are pleasing in His sight.
Not words alone it cost the Lord,
To purchase pardon for His own;
Nor will a soul by grace restored
Return the Saviour words alone.
With golden bells, the priestly vest,
And rich pomegranates border'd round,
The need of holiness expressed,
And called for fruit as well as sound.
Easy indeed it were to reach
A mansion in the courts above,
If swelling words and fluent speech
Might serve instead of faith and love.
But none shall gain the blissful place,
Or God's unclouded glory see,
Who talks of free and sovereign grace,
Unless that grace has made him free!
Man lost faith in fellow men;
their thoughts, acts, words and virtues!
In a world of mutual mistrust
Scepters ruled the mighty kingdoms,
idols ruled human hope and wisdom;
statutes, rules and codes etch today
vows on papers!
Words of mouth go with the wind,
and prefer we walking on jotted lines.
Man against man is pitted
in a cobweb of scribble-jumble!
Alas, orals lost credence
and writings gained muscle!
Words or writings are of what vouch
when human ethics is in pathetic crouch? !
Was this the man; the Divine did plan?
What a shame to be called a human;
sans being humane, a quality God did sow
but alas, man never allowed it to grow!
Love is one identifying mark that sets Believers and others apart.
Men will know us from others when we have love one for another.
Love covers a multitude of sin, when you have Christ’s love within.
It was Christ’s love on the cross that covered the sins of the lost.
No greater love to comprehend than giving one’s life for a friend.
In His love, God did condescend, saving sinners like us, my friend.
We display the love of Christ, when we become a living sacrifice.
It’s a reasonable service to Him; As His Love washed away our sin.
If in your life you give God His place, He will then fill you with faith.
This Faith centers upon Him; as Christ turns you from a life of sin.
Faith becomes your foundation, the moment you receive Salvation.
Friend in your newly found Faith, you will be led by God’s Grace.
And friend your Faith is assured, as you put your Hope in The Lord,
Not in your life or other men but Hope in the One who God did send.
For Christ is The Hope of all men, He is The Beginning and The End,
As Christ is The Hope of certainty, that goes on well into Eternity.
My friend, Faith, Hope and Love, they are all gifts from God up above,
And if you glean from up above, you will see that the greatest is Love.
God’s Love produces in us a Faith that helps us point to God’s Grace.
Grace appeared to all then, and Christ remains The Hope of all men.
(Copyright ©12/2004)
Love & faith go hand in hand
When two hearts connect
and make a stand
There is no distance
that can separate
The man who finds
his perfect mate
We live tomorrow
the dreams of today
Our hopes of the future
gives us faith along the way
Love is the river
of this wakened state
Its never out of time
its never too late
It gives us life
as it flows through our lives
It tears through confusion
loneliness and strife
Love cuts a clear path
through the test of time
You can see where it has been
and watch it unwind
Free as a river
that you can't control
You can't even say
where it might flow
Hope is a power
that cant be taken away
It can pull you through
even the toughest of days
Hope can keep you going
when everything else fails
It keeps you company
on the loneliest of trails
Faith is ever daring
in the face of defeat
It can bring you courage
that nothing can beat
Faith is never doubting
in yourself or your beliefs
Holding on to what you know
when content is just a dream
Faith can give you strength
to face what the future brings
Combined with hope and love
you only need the three of these
Love is like a River
Hope is like a dream
Faith is just believing
with nothing to be seen
So dream of tomorrow
and Love for today
Hope with all your heart
Let Faith show you the way
Full faith I have she holds that rarest gift
To beauty, Common Sense. To see her lie
With her fair visage an inverted sky
Bloom-covered, while the underlids uplift,
Would almost wreck the faith; but when her mouth
(Can it kiss sweetly? sweetly!) would address
The inner me that thirsts for her no less,
And has so long been languishing in drouth,
I feel that I am matched; that I am man!
One restless corner of my heart or head,
That holds a dying something never dead,
Still frets, though Nature giveth all she can.
It means, that woman is not, I opine,
Her sex's antidote. Who seeks the asp
For serpent's bites? 'Twould calm me could I clasp
Shrieking Bacchantes with their souls of wine!
766
My Faith is larger than the Hills—
So when the Hills decay—
My Faith must take the Purple Wheel
To show the Sun the way—
'Tis first He steps upon the Vane—
And then—upon the Hill—
And then abroad the World He go
To do His Golden Will—
And if His Yellow feet should miss—
The Bird would not arise—
The Flowers would slumber on their Stems—
No Bells have Paradise—
How dare I, therefore, stint a faith
On which so vast depends—
Lest Firmament should fail for me—
The Rivet in the Bands
Which religion do I acknowledge?
None that thou namest.
'None that I name?  And why so? '-
Why, for religion's own sake?
Now, in twilight, on the palace steps
the king asks forgiveness of his lady.
He is not
duplicitous; he has tried to be
true to the moment; is there another way of being
true to the self?
The lady
hides her face, somewhat
assisted by the shadows. She weeps
for her past; when one has a secret life,
one's tears are never explained.
Yet gladly would the king bear
the grief of his lady: his
is the generous heart,
in pain as in joy.
Do you know
what forgiveness mean? it mean
the world has sinned, the world
must be pardoned --
912
Peace is a fiction of our Faith—
The Bells a Winter Night
Bearing the Neighbor out of Sound
That never did alight.
Of all the gifts Thine hand bestows,
Thou Giver of all good!
Not heaven itself a richer knows
Than my Redeemer's blood.
Faith too, the blood-receiving grace,
From the same hand we gain;
Else, sweetly as it suits our case,
That gift had been in vain.
Till Thou Thy teaching power apply,
Our hearts refuse to see,
And weak, as a distemper'd eye,
Shut out the view of Thee.
Blind to the merits of Thy Son,
What misery we endure!
Yet fly that Hand from which alone
We could expect a cure.
We praise Thee, and would praise Thee more,
To Thee our all we owe:
The precious Saviour, and the power
That makes Him precious too.
A moment you wished you could remain in
That day you wanted to never stop
The time you professed your heart
When all was released
And you found inner peace
For some it comes but once in a life time
Through faith we may remain
Our hopes our dreams
All seeming possible
When at last we surrender
Finding what has been missing
The void that was never filled
Completeness and oneness
In Him, through Him and by Him
Creating a love that will never fade
The light that was brought inside
Shining for all to see
From His hand to mine
An eternal flame
That shall never be extinguished
promises of faith as when the truth
flows like a fountain of beauty
beneath and beyond the trust
at the alter of love vile less and divine
looking to the moon
the blue sky above the home
to the glory of sweet voices ye tuning
in the depth of night yet blazing luminous
as swaying becomes brighter and bestirred
the trust of stunning rune by the muse
as when eclectic to the reason of acceptance
when persuading the truth pervading within
yet it flows to the edges of time as we embrace
melting the pain when resourced by blessing
the sorrows of being yet apart from the heart
as the deep scars from the hue of love idyllic
She lies alone upon her bed
With a million thoughts
Running through her head
She blames herself for everything
Its all her fault, even though
She knows deep down inside
Beneath all the tears and the lies
That its not her fault
You cant imagine all the pain
She feels, and you cant imagine
All the days she fears
'please give me a chance'
I hear her pray, 'please let me
Have a better day, let me hold
My head up high, instead of hiding
Every day and night'
She gets up and looks in the mirror
Who is this girl
Staring back at her?
She doesn’t know who she is anymore
All that she wants is an open door
To lead her to the light
She doesn’t want to argue no more
And she doesn’t want to fight
She walks back to her bed of dreams
Its like she's on a tightrope
Ready to fall at any time
She looks up at the sky
Wishing that she could fly
Because anywhere is better than here
Better than all this fear
Then she looks over to her door as it opens
She's losing her faith…
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Who in despite of view is pleased to dote.
Nor are mine cars with thy tongue's tune delighted,
Nor tender feeling to base touches prone,
Nor taste, nor smell, desire to be invited
To any sensual feast with thee alone;
But my five wits, nor my five senses can
Dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee,
Who leaves unswayed the likeness of a man,
Thy proud heart's slave and vassal wretch to be.
Only my plague thus far I count my gain,
That she that makes me sin awards me pain.
A man with faith can win the world with ease;
A war is won with faith in its soldiers;
A leader with faith brings about world’s peace;
A faithless man always has unknown fears.
Strong faith can heal an adamant disease;
Faith in oneself makes one self-confident;
Faith in religion and God gives mind’s peace;
Faith alters in our favor, an event.
Faith is needed to maintain good friendship;
You ought to have faith in a stranger too;
Faith in the captain brings to harbor ship;
Faith is needed even to win a coup!
Have faith in the man for earthly things done;
Have faith in God for Heavenly grace won.
Have trust in God and things will turn out right;
Have faith in God and mountains melt like ice;
Have trust in Him- temptations you can fight;
Have faith in Him and Life will become nice.
Have trust in God for He can do all things;
Have faith in God who solves problems we can’t;
Have trust in Him who selects Leaders/ Kings;
Have faith in Him who feeds Ants /Elephant.
Have trust in God for He is our Friend true;
Have faith in God who remains always near;
Have trust in Him who brings the rain and dew;
Have faith in Him who is our Father dear.
Have trust in God who is so kind yet terse;
Have faith in Him who rules the universe!
7-1-2003
Dedicated to most revered D.G.S.DHINAKARAN,
JESUS CALLS MINISTRY, CHENNAI, INDIA,
On his birthday by Dr John Celes
I’m happy with whatev’r God does for me;
But others don’t agree to what I say;
I live in peace and total harmony;
My greed and earnings grow more day by day.
Show me O God a day when I’m secure;
My earthly wants increases endlessly;
Help me O God my suff’rings to endure;
I want to live a life more selflessly.
To keep soul pure is primary on earth;
The world may praise or chide me for my deeds;
God only cares for me ev’r since my birth;
I grow upright amidst the thorns and weeds!
God, be my light and drive all darkness out;
My faith in you should last without a doubt.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 5-9-2006
Yes, faith can lift a mountain from its base!
Yes, faith can turn a river off its course;
Yes, faith can win an impossible race!
Yes, faith can calm a lion as he roars!
Sure, faith can do impossible a thing!
Sure, faith can hold a marriage till the end!
Sure, faith can well a happy ending bring!
Sure, faith can truly iron bars too bend!
True faith can make a friendship very strong!
True faith unites two lovers tie the knot!
True faith can make miles look like one furlong!
True faith can win a war although ill-fought!
None can afford to lose faith since their birth,
And faith in God is what we need on earth.
Like the first cracks in the ice of a pond
My heart began to break and fall apart
Desires and plans slipping through the cleft
Pieces falling into the cold water of sorrow
Any hope of becoming numb grows futile.
A frosted crystalline web began to form
Where love and contentment once lived
Harsh pain of loss depletes the body of warmth
Yet the heart beats unable to let love cool
Once a foundation is made of doubt and fear
Of mistrust and regret it is bound to collapse
Leaving behind a vacant heart once filled
Sorrow of such emotional magnitude
You feel it in the very depths of your being
Unable to see anything but darkness
Faith as thin as a spider web is all that is left
Yet you hold on the this thread for life
637
The Child's faith is new—
Whole—like His Principle—
Wide—like the Sunrise
On fresh Eyes—
Never had a Doubt—
Laughs—at a Scruple—
Believes all sham
But Paradise—
Credits the World—
Deems His Dominion
Broadest of Sovereignties—
And Caesar—mean—
In the Comparison—
Baseless Emperor—
Ruler of Nought—
Yet swaying all—
Grown bye and bye
To hold mistaken
His pretty estimates
Of Prickly Things
He gains the skill
Sorrowful—as certain—
Men—to anticipate
Instead of Kings—
HERE in the country’s heart
Where the grass is green,
Life is the same sweet life
As it e’er hath been.
Trust in a God still lives,
And the bell at morn
Floats with a thought of God
O’er the rising corn.
God comes down in the rain,
And the crop grows tall—
This is the country faith,
And the best of all!
Wakened by the turbulence of thought
and fed by hopes more insolent than lies,
this log we need, too soon shall start to rot
when on it stands the one who holds the skies
and heavens-he alone holds them apart.
Bitter foes have made their peace in time
and logs once rotten fertilize the soil,
but you, oh you who knows not death's decline
for lies you simmer, truth will make you boil.
Hope, sweet hope, will fail before you start.
your flairs and flares as yet gleaming
is never on the wane yet unfettered
flaming the fame of yours as protracting
is reasoned to the faith of love unearthly
the love of soul in embracing in desire
when benign words of love subtle true
whispers you at your askance cuddle you
as Hands of blessings blazing in disguise.
the blissful smiles on your grace undying
may lead you as high as you wink the sky
even reaching the moon and its blue
to rave up your beauty and glory yet unfazed.
The sky blue  how lovely to earth green tales by the grin
is it not gleams of hope by the urgency of dream
you showed me the light in the molten dark of cruised  passion
days I remember the rising sun diffuses over dew of dawn
warmth still stashed in its room of reason unknown
snow when stares into the room I may not share
age may not fall by its own wishes dehiscing the blue
reeks of shadow turn to pieces impaling the clouds by rain
clear sky ever opens its door of deliverance by transparency of truth
the desire when metamorphosed by the heavenly bliss
the path when scrupled by the blessing in desire as ahead
dregs of whispers promise a semblance of love unknown before
rose when holds on latching on to the dreams of new day even in storm
as the vivid flash of thunder yet livid over the green cornfield
earth still tautens its buoyancy of confidence breaking the shadow
yet hope of vision on shore braces up tempting the faith of tomorrow.
The word of faith unto me pardon brings,
Shows me the ground and reason whence it springs:
To wit, free grace, which moved God to give
His Son to die and bleed, that I might live
This word doth also loudly preach to me,
Though I a miserable sinner be,
Yet in this Son of God I stand complete,
Whose righteousness is without all deceit;
'Tis that which God himself delighteth in,
And that by which all his have saved been.
A blue jay poses on a stake
meant to support an apple tree
newly planted. A strong wind
on this clear cold morning
barely ruffles his tail feathers.
When he turns his attention
toward me, I face his eyes
without blinking. A week ago
my wife called me to come see
this same bird chase a rat
into the thick leaves
of an orange tree. We came as
close as we could and watched
the rat dig his way into an orange,
claws working meticulously.
Then he feasted, face deep
into the meal, and afterwards
washed himself in juice, paws
scrubbing soberly. Surprised
by the whiteness of the belly,
how open it was and vulnerable,
I suggested I fetch my .22.
She said, "Do you want to kill him?"
I didn't. There are oranges
enough for him, the jays, and us,
across the fence in the yard
next door oranges rotting
on the ground. There is power
in the name rat, a horror
that may be private. When I
was a boy and heir to tales
of savagery, of sleeping men
and kids eaten half away before
they could wake, I came to know
that horror. I was afraid
that left alive the animal
would invade my sleep, grown
immense now and powerful
with the need to eat flesh.
I was wrong. Night after night
I wake from dreams of a city
like no other, the bright city
of beauty I thought I'd lost
when I lost my faith that one day
we would come into our lives.
The wind gusts and calms
shaking this miniature budding
apple tree that in three months
has taken to the hard clay
of our front yard. In one hop
the jay turns his back on me,
dips as though about to drink
the air itself, and flies.
Under the snow in the dark and the cold,
A pale little sprout was humming;
Sweetly it sang, ‘neath the frozen mold,
Of the beautiful days that were coming.
“How foolish your songs, ” said a lump of clay,
“What is there, I ask, to prove them?
Just look at the walls between you and the day,
Now, have you the strength to move them? ”
But under the ice and under the snow
The pale little sprout kept singing,
“I cannot tell how, but I know, I know,
I know what the days are bringing.”
“Birds, and blossoms, and buzzing bees,
Blue, blue skies above me,
Bloom on the meadows and buds on the trees,
And the great glad sun to love me.”
A pebble spoke next: “You are quite absurd.”
It said, “with your song’s insistence;
For I never saw a tree or a bird,
So of course there are none in existence.”
“But I know, I know, ” the tendril cried,
In beautiful sweet unreason;
Till lo! from its prison, glorified,
It burst in the glad spring season.
377
To lose one's faith—surpass
The loss of an Estate—
Because Estates can be
Replenished—faith cannot—
Inherited with Life—
Belief—but once—can be—
Annihilate a single clause—
And Being's—Beggary—
The dust settles and past has been locked
Roads are empty where you once walked
The veiled songs of when you were young
Never seem to be back on your tongue.
Something’s changed, yet somehow it is the same
Stuck in a rut of time, yet the clocks’ hands tick away
Too afraid to let the past spill on the canvas of today? -
Just look up at the sky
And he will show you the way.
Images unpleasant, your conscience will decay
You’ve saved the hurt for a rainy day
Changing the photo on the photo frame
Your misplaced life you’re trying to reclaim.
The rain is lashing down hard, yet the sun is bright
The past re-plays before your eyes
The script is re-written and you’ve come clean
Metamorphosed routine-a role has been essayed
He has shown you the way.
(5th December 2006)
Although, we say that a man with faith
can win the world without trouble
But faith is believing something is not seen
We do exercise believe in faith everyday
But believing in reality is more truth than faith
We cannot see most things that we have faith
even they are existing like a faith in God.
When we become lack of belief in ourselves
then we become nothing but weakening in our soul
Most of the people dream to have something
and they want them to come true within their faith
They don't want to achieve them through belief in reality.
Some think faith and belief are part of evolution
It is true that success in life need to have both faith and belief
but belief is the way of searching for the truth or reality
Faith is known as trust on something but absence of proof
But belief is built with knowledge and a reality is proofed.
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2008 Ravi Sathasivam
The tears fall, but no one's there to heed them,
The heart it mourns, but no one sees the hurt.
An emptiness has seeped into the brainstem,
One's feeling dazed, and no longer alert.
Such desolation haunts one's whole persona,
What can one do, and just where can one go,
You feel as if you've now become a loner,
How droplets, when they're prompted, freely flow.
To cry can be a painful kind of action,
One weeps for someone one has loved so well,
Yet grieving gives release, if just a fraction,
Which heals the ache and lets sadness dispel.
Only time will ease such utter sorrow,
That comes from losing someone Oh, so dear,
But with the dawning of each new tomorrow,
With faith and hope you'll find a panacea.
©   Ernestine Northover
Seen from the back as
they walk along the dusty summer road, with
the sheep straying onto the verges where
a tuft of more succulent grass may linger
in the earlier shadow of
the noontime sun, under the low stone wall,
it’s difficult to see whether
the couple walking with the
gentle pace of conversation, are
son and father, or his grandfather; the man
seems older than the young fathers
around here. But from the front, when
you see their eyes, there’s no mistake –
they’re father (or stepfather?)    and son all right, talking
with such attention, such respect
for one another.
They walk into the village, silently greeted, greeting,
with the gentle nodded glance of villagers
about their various tasks; and open up
the wooden door of the cool and tidy carpenters’
workshop open to the sunny air, where
a young mother gazes at the boy with
all the love in the world. It’s
in His eyes too.
There was me,
my brothers; a total of three,
A step-dad who was my mothers husband to be,
Each one loving each other
As we waited for a sister after being concieved,
Just recently we had bought a camera,
We stocked up on VHS tapes,
So many laughs and so much anger,
When living room boxing went on so late.
I remember a day out
The zoo is where we went
The goat ate my bag instead of the food
And tried to eat my coat through the fence.
Me and my brothers never got along
But what brothers do
We punched and shouted until we'd hurt,
But looked out for each other to,
My eldest was always grounded
coz he was a rebel on the streets,
He'd get his opinion across,
But was grounded by six,
The other was a follower, he'd follow the eldest,
The eldest became annoyed, and once again got grounded.
I tried being like my brothers,
but I never could, The youngest was a baby,
I preferred to be good,
My step dad taught me alot about respect
I listened as I should,
He taught me about love
And how I should grow up
coz life isnt always good
I was close to my mother,
I didnt want to be apart,
she'd tuck me into bed
and push me on the swings in the park
she would tickle my tummy
and buy me new clothes
she would cook something yummy
and keep me warm when it was cold.
Father today I come to you with a heavy heart, a heart that is saddened and crying out for your help.  Father this week a family is in great pain, for they have lost a loved one in such a brutal way.  A hard working woman of 40 years old, walking home from work, minding her own business, but she didn’t make it Lord.  No my Father, she didn’t make it, she was followed, beaten, raped and murdered.   A mother of 5 sons, working hard to save money to send  to the Philipines for her sons and husband to come to Canada to  live a better life.   Oh Father, now she ‘s not here any longer, taken by a ruthless, heartless killer.
I’m told Father that I should pray for this killer, forgive  me my King, this I can not do.  Maybe another time perhaps, another day when I can think clearly.  Today I focus my prayers on the deceased woman and her precious family.
The pain will be heavy and hard to deal with  but with your help Father anything is possible.  Please Lord put the blood of Jesus over them and give them the strength they need to move forward.  Father over these next few days and weeks, their eyes will fill with tears, their minds filled with questions asking why did this happen.  Only you can pull them through Lord, only you have the answers, only you can soothe them and give them your heavenly love.
Father the perpetrator beat this poor lady so bad, that the family couldn’t indentify her so it would definitely appear that she suffered tremendously.  Father I want to believe that you took her to be with you long before the brutal blows were landed, that she was already sitting by your side.
Yes Father, I’m troubled and having a very difficult time trying to understand this.  Why Lord, please talk to me so that I can understand why a young fellow like this, at the age of 21 could be so evil.  Lord I pray that you accept Arcelie into your kingdom, so that she will walk with you and enjoy the freedom of everlasting life.  I know that she is in your hands now Lord and that you will take good care of her.
Father God I ask that you give the family strength to carry on with their lives and I thank you Father  for those that came forward and offered help in a financial way.  I ask Lord that you impress on the minds of those than can afford to give in a generous way, that this situation could happen to anyone, no one is an exception.   Father please help the family to keep all the little children under one roof, I pray that they never be separated.
Lord for the family members that had to view the body and see the after effects of the brutaliy, oh Lord please help them to overcome Lord.  Help them to take that picture out of their minds and remember how beautiful  Arcelie   was.
Father, wrap your arms around this family, hold them close, don’t let their minds wonder, keep them  focused on what they have to do and Lord please keep them out-of-harms way.
Written:  Jan 27/2008
Note:
It is crucial that you realize every word of this is true.  In fact  it happened a little over a week ago, here in Calgary, Alberta.  Poemhunters please pray for Arcelie and her family, prayers are powerful and right now Arcelie’s family needs your prayers.
Sitting in front of the fire, Auntie Flo's reciting a story,
it's one about her first Christmas as a newly wed,
the same one she broadcasts every year,
but no one is listening.
Uncle Fred, 'out to the world' snores rhythmically
on the sofa.
Mother exhausted, having cooked the lunch,
without help, as usual,
stifles a yawn.
Dad, brow furrowed, is trying to piece together
Eddy's lego set,
whilst Eddy glowers,
after all, it was 'his' present.
Joe, playing with a set of 'disco lights'
is sending flashes of colour across the room,
straight into Grandpa's eyes,
making him feel even more bilious
after having consumed too many chocolates.
Grandma's knitting.
Grandma always knits on Christmas Day,
and every other day, come to that,
probably yet another scarf for what she believes is
still the war effort.
The cat, curled up on her lap, purrs contently,
oblivious of the knitting needles, waving precariously
in front of his sleepy eyes.
Susan is gazing at the TV screen, .
glued, for the umpteenth time to, 'The Sound of Music' movie,
singing every song, word for word,
at the top of her voice.
'Turkey was nice', said Auntie,
'I was given too much', moaned Grandpa, belching loudly.
'Your problem is, you never can refuse a second helping', said Grandma, 'so it's your own fault'.
Mother grins and asks,
'Would anybody like another mince pie? '
At Christmas families,
gather around a family Christmas tree
to open gifts of love
each has left there for one another.
The tree sparkles
with lights and coloured tinsel,
while on top there sits an angel
to watch over everyone.
Carefully wrapped presents adorn the floor
around the bottom of the tree.
Each has been wrapped
and sealed with a loving kiss,
one for you and one for me.
Then on Christmas morn
as the dawn breaks the sky
the children climb out of their bed
and tiptoe downstairs to the presents,
getting ready to explore.
Before the day is over
there will be shrills of laughter
and joy ringing out
at all they have received
from beneath a family Christmas tree.
Once more we talk about it.
How sad it's all become.
No matter how we look at it
this family is not one.
They say it shouldn't matter.
Who needs them after all?
But, please explain the pain I feel
even though I've got it all.
I see my pain and emptiness
like a hollowed out old tree...
It may seem to be standing tall
but, it's empty just like me.
There's such a contradiction
to my entire life.
I'm happy and fulfilled
being a mother and a wife.
What about 'a sister'
and 'a daughter'...how about that?
These are roles I was born to play.
Why can't I? Tell me that.
A family divided
that's what we've grown to be.
I've got mine and you've got yours
but we have no family tree.
There is an extremely fat man
who lives in a gargantuan size house
with his attractive but butterball wife
and their two and one third kids
all of whom have flunked P.E.
while dad, mom and offspring
continue to feed on a plethora
of morbidly obese things to eat
And every now and then
they'll remember to toss
their two pudgy dogs
who are always laying at their feet
an occasional scrap of fatty meat
Their lone old cat sits and stares
with an extreme sense of satisfaction
displayed fully as it is showing on his face.....
It is he who still has
more than the one life left to live......
Her father was a smart dyslexic
but she was thin and anorexic.
The mother had a bad addiction
to gambling in her jurisdiction.
One brother used amphetamines
the other started in his teens
to rob and steal and even kill
it made the family quite ill.
One day the father, chaired a meeting
next day his daughter started eating.
The mother won a million bucks
one brother said this life, it sucks
the other changed identity
and ended thus his misery.
All five were favoured by the gods,
and, what the heck, they liked the odds.
They keep it so well hidden
This trait they won’t admit
In this family it’s forbidden
To ever mention it
Are they fearful of the flow
This trait of theirs brings on?
Afraid if people know
They’d be oh so woebegone?
Their secret hides a social ill
It’s an unacceptable addiction
This trait results in over-kill
It’s an anti-social affliction
Convinced they’ve gone astray
They crawl into cocoons
It appears it’s not okay
Their feasting on dried prunes
To hell with high society
This family won’t succumb
To hell with snob propriety
They won’t switch from prunes to plums
There  must be things much worse
Though they can’t imagine what
Is it really such a curse
This secret that they’ve got?
By: Michelle (Miss. Shelly)
A family that doesn’t belong,
But always knowing we didn’t do a thing wrong!
Your in our family so strong and caring,
Each and every problem is worth you sharing!
I know I have you,
but know that you have us too!
We wont leave your side through our life travels,
Even when our life feels as if it unravels!
No one can get through this thing with out,
We wont leave you in this world to just sit and pout!
This world gets tough and this we all know,
But our family that doesn’t belong will help you make it go!
No secrets will be hidden and for this I know,
We will help you up when you get to your all-time low!
All our little family is a wondrous gift,
Something that only we can uplift!
This is something not even the preps can’t measure,
But the rumors is just their little pleasure!
I know it will hurt and cut you inside,
But your lost family is here for you to confide!
This is our family that doesn’t belong,
But we can get through singing a inspirational song!
This family that doesn’t belong finally has been found,
And no one in this family will let you hit the ground! ! !
To: Rachael (noodle)
Rachel (Hobbs)
Gina (daffy duck)
Stephanie (Mrs. Niccals)
Maria (Mia mango)
Chelsea (Mrs. Squarepants)
Brianne (brianne banana)
My banks are all furnished with rags,
So thick, even Freddy can't thin 'em;
I've torn up my old money-bags,
Having little or nought to put in 'em.
My tradesman are smashing by dozens,
But this is all nothing, they say;
For bankrupts, since Adam, are cousins,
So, it's all in the family way.
My Debt not a penny takes from me,
As sages the matter explain; --
Bob owes it to Tom and then Tommy
Just owes it to Bob back again.
Since all have thus taken to owing,
There's nobody left that can pay;
And this is the way to keep going, --
All quite in the family way.
My senators vote away millions,
To put in Prosperity's budget;
And though it were billions or trillions,
The generous rogues wouldn't grudge it.
'Tis all but a family hop,
'Twas Pitt began dancing the hay;
Hands round! -- why the deuce should we stop?
'Tis all in the family way.
My labourers used to eat mutton,
As any great man of the State does;
And now the poor devils are put on
Small rations of tea and potatoes.
But cheer up John, Sawney and Paddy,
The King is your father, they say;
So ev'n if you starve for your Daddy,
'Tis all in the family way.
My rich manufacturers tumble,
My poor ones have nothing to chew;
And, even if themselves do not grumble,
Their stomachs undoubtedly do.
But coolly to fast en famille,
Is as good for the soul as to pray;
And famine itself is genteel,
When one starves in a family way.
I have found out a secret for Freddy,
A secret for next Budget day;
Though, perhaps he may know it already,
As he, too, 's a sage in his way.
When next for the Treasury scene he
Announces "the Devil to pay",
Let him write on the bills, "Nota bene,
'Tis all in the family way."
Where is family?
The birth of me and I:
Languished, died.
A perfect family is what we all wish for.
We see people that have families that are much different than ours.
As we experience their unique culture, we wish we had a family like them.
But really, having a perfect family isn’t possible.
We all will have problems and accomplishments that make us unique from every other family in the whole wide world.
So, think hard about how different your family is.
Appreciate you have a family and is never alone because they help us through tough times.
It is never foolish to wish for a perfect family but is foolish to abandon your special family.
It is not the colour of our skin
that makes the person,
but what lies deep within.
We all bleed red blood
no matter what colour we are,
our tears are always salty
whenever they stain our sorrowed brow.
We all breathe the same air,
so why do we discriminate
and caste aside one person from another.
No matter who we are
when we die and go to heaven.
God does not discriminate
from one person to another.
As far as he is concerned,
we are to him just one big family,
no one is different from the other.
Therefore, as we walk forward today
lets link hands and say,
come and join us as we are family.
16 May 2008
Of all the silver and the gold,
of all the gems our eyes behold,
we look around and see the sky
and all the clouds go rolling by.
We hear the noise of aer-o-planes,
and listen to the birds that sing.
And then O’ God inside of me a voice
speaks so soft and sweet! And then I
raise my hands to Thee and Thank You
for my family.  The trees in all their beauty be....
In God's creation speaks to me. The
grass, the flowers and all the shrubs
and indications of God's love. The
mountains, valleys, hills, and vales
and even along some lonesome trail
and then O’ God inside of me a voice speaks so soft
and sweet, and then I raise my hands to Thee
and Thank You for my family.  We are all created by God above, and
brought together by His love. We are one
blood, we are all kin, and we are also
each others friend. Wherever we travel across this land, we pray that God will
hold our hands. From every sea to shining sea,
where ever I go, wherever I be the soft sweet
voice speaks inside of me, and then I raise
my hands to Thee, O’ God, Thank You for my
family.
The mother gone
The father mad
The brothers crying
The sister's numb
Not feeling
But knowing
The change is coming
Bracing herself
No help anymore
From anyone
To all my family and friends,
I'm happy to say, this is the end.
I've been contemplating death for a while.
Stressed out, as all these problems pile.
I need more help than I can get.
A year in therapy, no improvement yet.
Scarred for life and full of pain.
Unable to clean this everlasting stain.
No one but me knows the whole truth.
Of all the awful things of my youth.
I lie to myself all the time.
Pretending I'm happy and my life is sublime.
Everything is out of control.
I'm tired and worn, my body has taken its toll.
My conscience and morals seem to fade,
As I did the bad things my parents forbade.
I'm tired of making the same mistakes.
I'm tired of all the liars and fakes.
I just want to be gone and disapear.
Living another day is my only fear.
So with this in thought I will take the knife.
Find a vein and end my life.
Four Yorkshire Terriers
Tiny, Holly, Charlie, Joy
You gave us many years of happiness
Filled with love, affection and unconditional love
How we took care of you
At night the bed was never crowded
With the four bundles of joy
Snuggling close to their masters
Many years of togetherness
Until each one of you grew quite old
At the end, each one of you crossed the rainbow bridge
Straight to paradise where you saw the white dove
Someday when the time is right
We shall meet again
What joy, peace and tranquility
Never again any disasters
From then on just peace and blessings
Just enjoying the calm
God’s good will shall give us wings
To protect the ones we love.
A lady whose bosoms were big
allowed them to go to her head.
Lusted after by Fred, his mates, grandfather & Dad
& even the family dog who humped her leg.
Family comes together
For always and forever
In sickness and in health
In poverty or in wealth
Family comes together
For always and forever
Without any reason
Anytime or any season
Family comes together
For always and forever
In death or in life
In happiness or in strife
Family comes together
For always and forever
In anger or in kindness
Whether all seeing or in blindness
Family comes together
For always and forever
Whether for work or for play
They somehow find a way
For family to come together
Because families are forever
One would be in less danger
From the wiles of a stranger
If one's own kin and kith
Were more fun to be with.
Friends may come and friends may go
Family is first and this I know
Putting friends first is a mistake
And not one that you should make
Family’s forever and this I know
Friends enter your life and then they go
Making friends is fun trust me with this
But not something you would miss
Love your family while they are here
Keep their love very near
Family can leave the world at any time
So don’t make yourself feel like slime
Family is here to comfort you
I know your friends do this too
Without your family you would be lost
Hold on to them no matter the cost
One of the most heart felt feelings is
Putting your family first
It doesn't require a scholar or math whiz
To recognize one suffering from thirst
Whether it be for liquid or love
My parents put family first with education
Taught about respect and God above
About land and its preservation
And about family and friends
Sharing the present and the past
Making family number one with love that never ends
And memories that last and last!
We all have a cherished garden we tend -
It is planted with love of family and friends.
The memories and dreams we treasure and share
Are like beautiful roses found blooming there.
The comfort and care on which we depend
Is given with love between family and friends.
The sunshine of laughter and rain of a tear
Only make our love grow with each passing year.
We may all be ourselves with no need to pretend
Because of the love of family and friends;
They notice the rainbows and weather the showers.
They overlook weeds and praise all our flowers.
The most valuable thing is the time that we spend
Tending this garden with family and friends.
When counting our blessings, we know from the start
That family and friends come first in our heart.
love my family with my hold heart.
My love is Joy to love my family
Family is sad and happy and love.
Family is fun and painful and pretty.
My family is like all families we have
love and we have happiness and tears
I love my hold family
My family is like angels who fly in sky
I am grateful that I have family that loves
me.
My family are kind and nice and fun to be
around
My family is painful like all familys are and
heart breaking and Evil sometimes
My family is heart breaking and deadly like
everyone else
Hey I can't stop loving my family not matter what
it coats in the family.
Way my family is just makes me want have family
with someone be as good as they are.
But God know I love my family
and our love is great to have in life
and even know they leave he world they still
a live in my hearts.
When my aunt died 3 years ago.It was like I was in woods and couldn't find my way out of woods.But it wasn't like
I was lost in woods and couldn't find my way out.It was real lost when my aunt died with cancer.When my great grand
maw died.It was like I drunk something that made me sick to my stomach.But it wasn't like I that I drunk something that
was bad for me and made me sick to my stomach.It was real lost when she died of old age.When my great grand paw died over Thanksgiving month.It was like lost baby fox that got lost from it family.But it wasn't like a baby fox lost it family.It is real thing when you loose a love one.When I first meet Nathan and we started dating.It was like was cup that you was sweet to drink out of.But it wasn't like a cup that is sweet to drink out of.It is real nice thing when me and Nathan meet and I wish it was like was when we first got together.When Nathan change after my grand paw died and he act like something change him.It was like I was racing horse to get back to something I was missing.But it wasn't like I was racing a horse to get back to my life that I once had.When I found Mason on myspace and we started talking again.It was like shooting star when back and got us together.But it wasn't like they was shooting star that went by that got us together.It was just some bad luck on getting together with Mason.When I thought he love me and wanted to be with me.It was like two love birds that are kissing in the trees.But it wasn't like two loves birds are kissing in the trees.It was real dump thing when you think someone wants to be with you and they do not want to be.
Writer is Kristina Riggs
date it ends was March 27
2008 and time it end 1: 30am.
At home
Husband
And wife...
Some time fighting...
Word's to words...
With bad words...
Sometime hit
The husband wife
Mistakes...
Wife was crying...
Husband was woory...
Wife also
Lovingely hit...
Husband also take easy...
At night husband
Wanted wife
For sex...
Wife will say
Backpain acting
Going for
Hear with life
Every day
At familylife...!
Have u ever thought actually
What it would be like, without a family.
Family is the only one,
Where one experiences best of fun.
Family is an elegant necklace,
Whose bond may appear broken
But deep inside, their hearts are still one.
When the unwanted sorrows seem longer than a mile,
Your dear old family makes you smile.
When because of a mistake no event
Works out for your sake.
When life refuses to mend
There comes a sharp bend,
Family gives necessary amends,
To the family all worries can be sent.
In a fraction of time,
Your sorrows will leave
It may sound absurd
But you’ve got to believe.
Wherever you may be,
You belong to the pack.
And to them you can always go back.
.
We are a family created by God’s design
Rejoice, love each other, and cherish this precious time
Honor your mother and father they are truly gifts from our father above
Don’t wait for tragedy in your life, to show your love
I remember years ago lying in what thought to be my dying bed,
All hope lost and tears being shed.
I reminisced about all our family times and things I wanted to say
I felt time had run out and all I could do was prey
Don’t take for granted the family times we share
The reality fact they won’t always be there
As a family we have been blessed in so many ways
I hope that we take time out to give God, his due praise
Family love is love from the heart
We should never let the evils of the world, break us apart
So as you go through life sometimes feeling all alone
Remember you have family, and you can always come home
By: Kevin Lam
Your family loves you
Whatever you do,
They love you when
You’re sad and they
Also love you when
You hate them.
Your family is gold;
Nothing can buy them
And nothing can buy
You away from your
Love with your family.
Your family will love
You even when you
Do stupid things
Such as, breaking your
Bones, doing drugs, or
Nearly killing yourself.
Your family won’t care
They will let it
Go and love you
More and more
How do you live,
in a family,
that never shows love,
that only brings drama and chao,
upon the table of life.
...
How?
because you surround yourself,
with another kind of family.
...
A family,
that never judges you,
won't pull you to the ground,
but pick you up when your down in the dirt.
...
People who,
you can tell anything too,
and won't think differently of you,
after they know,
your deepest,
and darkest most kept secrets.
...
This family,
isn't blood related,
but so much more,
their a family of my friends.
: : end: :
written: 11/13/05
I love my family photos
Such a simple treasure to me
So many wonderful people
That are part of my history
I look upon their faces
My uncles, cousins and aunts
I see myself in some of them
The eyes... the smile... the stance
Decked out in Sunday fashion
They gathered for a quick snapshot
Some clothes were made at home
And some of them they bought
And look at how far back they go
To the horse and buggy days
Perhaps we were not born yet
Or were small with the past a haze
Oh, look at Grandpa’s trophies
He looks so very proud
He knew he was quite a hunter
Though he wouldn’t say out loud
Let's not forget the animals
That helped to work the farm
They too were part of our family
And had their special charm
Just look at the family autos
They had such class and style
Yes, I love my family photos
Come and look at them awhile!
What is a family picture?
Is it all for real?
Are the people that you see
pretending they don't feel?
Can you see their anger?
Can you smell their fear?
Do you sense unhappiness
in the picture that's so clear?
We're trying to be perfect,
to look a certain way.
A family picture says so much
when there's nothing nice to say.
You plaster on the fake smile.
You put your arms 'just so'.
You show the world your family
without letting your family show.
Don't you just love old family pictures?
Dug out from dusty box or chest
I don't think there is anything else
That can compare - they're the absolute best
There is nothing like those black and whites
The photos from the past
Of course we know from history
That nothing ever lasts
Time moves on, of course it does
But pictures can live without end
They keep our families together
They are one thing that we can depend
Family pictures are such treasures
They take us back in time
They put us in the moment
And let the past unwind
As I go through several lifetimes
And look at my family's history
I'm so thankful I have these photos
They help unravel many family mysteries!
We are a family
And we belong together
We need to support each other
And encourage each other
Through life
What is a family, that’s what we ask,
For some it means little, for they may seek,
A life of love and sharing  each other,
For that is the joy a family can keep,
It’s being their always, for each other to share,
Not only in good times, but also the bad,
It’s sharing  a life as individuals we have,
It’s sharing the memories, we all have had,
It’s sticking together, when life  is rough,
It’s  appreciating  each, and the life they live,
It’s having a friend, that will always be there,
For advice they share, is from love they give,
In times of sorrow, they all will be there,
To help you through it, for the sorrow they share,
For each has a life, individuals they are,
But when one is in sorrow,  the family will care,
It’s sharing the memories, of parents and more,
It’s  sharing  a childhood and the memories they had,
Of days gone by, in a time that’s passed,
A chuckle, a laugh, and  times that were sad,
A unit of love, respecting each life,
A unit of one, but individuals each,
Understanding each life, for the person inside,
To the children of each, that’s what we much teach.
all families are different
loving
caring
helpful
but my family special
their there to talk
tell stories
bake wonderful cookies
welcoming you and me
smells like a family
with colorful decorate
houses going by
to my family one day
to stay
Can't live with them
and, I 'can'
Live without them,
Family what's it good for
Fighting, shouting, screaming.
Love, what's that?
Family and Love
Impossible
Your not my Sister!
Your not my Brother!
So what family we talking about
Family tree? What's that?
is it like Love?
When we talk of family,
it’s not always about our blood kin.
Sometimes it’s about a group of friends
whom have become more family
than the real ones we have.
They are there with comfort
whenever tragedy strikes
with a kind of love
that wraps around you
and comforts your troubled soul.
You gather your family close to you,
so whenever sadness comes along
you will know you will have
someone to call upon.
10 July 2008
My family is great
Together we talk
Together we laugh
Together we eat
Together we dance on our feet
Together we drink
together we sing
Together we do everything
Do you do everything with your family.
What then you ask, might be a family
is it a bunch of people thrown together?
Or is it God's own plan up in his gallery
creating birds that share a common feather?
A new arrival, Spring's delicious bud
conceived through love as others have before
is placed into your arms, it is your blood.
a promise for your future, gypsy lore.
The winds of change are whispering to me
my sun remembers  where to send those rays
and when the darkness comes (when will it be?)
there always is the moon, he has his ways.
The warm feeling
The tears that get wiped
The hug that holds you tight
That is family
The tearless nights
The everyday smiles
The echoed laughs
That is family
The helpful advice
The ending fights
The endless talks
That is family
The waking sunshine
The sleepy sunset
The bright faces
That is family
The amazing voices
The wrong choices
Directed to the right direction
That is family
family is all around us!
Tell me what does family mean to you
Is it all the little special things one another do
Or is it the bond that one another has
Maybe its the love from one generation to another one it pass
Family is more than a six letter word
It is a word that often need to be heard
Family is more than realitives they are friends
Friend that will stick with you to the very very end
A family bond is stronger than ever
Because it can overcome any stormy weather
A family stand tall no matter how hard they fall
Uniting as one when their backs against the wall
That is simply what a family do
Helping you become a better you
So when you think about the word family
Think beyound just the background history
Like they say a empty house is not a home
And a true faithful family never stands alone
when i need help my family is always there for me.
my family never let me down.
family is always around when u in trouble.
my family is my close friend.
my family is my protector.
my family always care for me
no matter what.
my family is going to be my protector
to the end.
my family is everything  to me
family is always going to
be there  for you
family is the people
you trust
family is the kind of people
who cares alot about you
family is the first people
you come to if
you have a problem
just remember that
family is going to
be there no matter what
in tough times
and in easy times
in you could
think of
everything so family
is going to  be there
no matter what
so
i just want to say
''I LOVE MY FAMILY''
A family gives you unconditional love,
Strength and guidance they got form above
They listen when you need and ear
And one thing is they always care
When you need a hand
They’ll lend you theirs
If you’re crying they’ll wipe you tears
If you need comfort, you know where to go
Their love is never hidden it is always shown
They always boast about you to anyone they meet
Family, friends and even strangers on the street
A family is a precious and kind
A family is truly divine
A family is God’s gift to everyone
They are what make your house your home
To be appreciated you don’t have to go far
Because your family loves you for who you are
She came to me so sweetly,
life bubbling from within her
strong as an angel's beating wings;
more spirit than child
yet emerging as a person
into this life full blown
brimming with that
unconscious happiness
youth brings.
Understand:
every parent feels this way
about every child,
no matter what happens
in the in-between;
no matter the heart-ache
the Bond remains;
no matter how battered
the relationship,
trust the love
is there beneath
the frown;
no matter the arguments,
the confusion;
the mayhem;
that love is there for you.
It came with your birth
and never dies.
Even love badly expressed
feint and halting
and not enough-
even never expressed;
it is still love.
Disappointments come
from love not hate
only indifference is fatal;
And, you love them too.
Yes, you do.
They are planted in your soul's soil
forever;
indelibly.
They brought  life to you.
Yours is the sacred Bond
Mother and Child
Father and Child
Family
alway present
in mind and heart
never gone.
A family is a tree
with its branches and leaves.
Come rain, come shine,
it staggers yet lives.
A family is a body
with its head, hands and fingers.
In sickness or in health,
it shivers and lingers.
A family is a world
with its inhabitants, lands and tides.
In pressure and turmoils,
it quakes but abides.
A family is you and I
engulfed in love.
Come what may,
we soar like a dove!
Your mouth is biger then
the world is round
someone tells you something
and you run home and tell
my dad
he and you both make me feel
like i dont belong
in this world
you tell him things
that i never said or did
you say things to me
and when i tell him
you deny everything
you are family so i
have to love you
RIGHT?
well i do just
most of the time
i dont feel i have
A reason to love you
the house is almost full,
the rooms abound with chatter,
little feet are pattering away
finally, the time that does matter,
fervently with every breath of mine,
I bow my head and pray,
my cup of happiness is full to the brim,
such togetheness comes once in a way,
my loved ones are here with me
to partake of  your bestowed grace,
happiness shows in every pair of eyes
laughter lights up every face,
mealtimes are a blessing of yours,
I thank thee for the food on our plate
the walls of my house, so cemented with love,
may the joyousness never abate,
soon the days will fly past
and each will return to their home, so far,
but nothing will dim the happiness of these memories,
nothing can be at par.....
happy times are what life is all about,
memories are there to stay,
memories of these times light up our eyes
when the children are far away,
love is what makes the world go around
love of each, for the other
love of a husband, a wife or a son,
love of  a sister or a brother,
I thank You Lord for this joyous reunion,
yet another blessing  of yours, a fine gift
may my family always be united,
may there never be friction or any rift.
enclose us all in your blessings,
enfold us warmly in your embrace,
keep my family happy and healthy
keep a smile on every face.....
The divorced mother and her divorcing
daughter. The about-to-be ex-son-in-law
and the ex-husband's adopted son.
The divorcing daughter's child, who is
the step-nephew of the ex-husband's
adopted son. Everyone cordial:
the ex-husband's second wife
friendly to the first wife, warm
to the divorcing daughter's child's
great-grandmother, who was herself
long ago divorced. Everyone
grown used to the idea of divorce.
Almost everyone has separated
from the landscape of a childhood.
Collections of people in cities
are divorced from clean air and stars.
Toddlers in day care are parted
from working parents, schoolchildren
from the assumption of unbloodied
daylong safety. Old people die apart
from all they've gathered over time,
and in strange beds. Adults
grow estranged from a God
evidently divorced from History;
most are cut off from their own
histories, each of which waits
like a child left at day care.
What if you turned back for a moment
and put your arms around yours?
Yes, you might be late for work;
no, your history doesn't smell sweet
like a toddler's head. But look
at those small round wrists,
that short-legged, comical walk.
Caress your history--who else will?
Promise to come back later.
Pay attention when it asks you
simple questions: Where are we going?
Is it scary? What happened? Can
I have more now? Who is that?
There was a spirit of friendly fellowship
In the Family Reunion Days of long ago
When the young and old gathered together
And softened the day's beautiful glow.
I can still detect a variety of odors
Of barbecue chicken, pie and cake
And the sizzling steaks on the grill,
Like the elderly members use to make.
I recollect the old timers telling stories
About how rough life use to be,
The Great Depression and lengthy war years,
Heartfelt accounts they seemed to me.
As the evening shadows began to deepen,
I always recited a simple, thankful prayer
For all the blessings, joys, and happiness
Our family was willing to share.
I love them so,
with the egg & spoon races
(grass stains all over) ,
the air thick with the smell of
barbeque ribs on the grills
and heavy with the shouts of the young'uns;
the old ladies (cackling with laughter)
the girls (singing, dancing) .
Grandpa (telling about
'When I was your age')
And the young boys around him
soaking it all in (or nodding off) .
Then Cousin Junebug strolls up
In the bright red suit
and the smile showing bright white teeth.
As I watch the action, I must ask
With wide-opened eyes:
Mom, who are these people?
t’s family reunion time again
Why, I have one in a few days
It’s fun to see everyone together
As adults visit and the children play
Might not know some of them too well
But that’s okay for real soon
Kinfolk seem to have a way
Of feeling comfortable by afternoon
Food planning and bar-b-q
Is always a real big thing
Should I bring potato salad
Oh, what in the world should I bring?
Is that our dear cousin over there?
He looks like Grandpa Joe
And that huge blonde haired family
Are they people we ought to know?
So sometimes you wear name tags
And other times you just ask who
The person is you’re talking to
‘Cause he’s probably related to you!
Eventhough she sometimes talk about the past
I know that my love for her
It will last.
Like the link of a chain
Together we cling
She is my girl
And love is what we bring
She is my love
My all in all
My love for you will never fall.
uncle dear uncle
what have you done?
of your sister's many children
all are now dead but one....
from a crooked tree's dead reach
your family was hung
dried and mummified by the winds
their souls to ever wander
while your evil roots grow deep
into once hallowed ground
uncle dear uncle
where have you gone?
of your sister's many children
all are dead but one....
And I am coming for you....
-
They love each other and their children but they studiously ignore
The poor old one in her mid eighties their near neighbour who lives next door
To her they feel so much superior in their eyes she's an old faded rose
Human beings can be so hypocrtical that's human life one would suppose.
Society promotes good family values but in their set of values inclusion they do not include
You must be a good family person but to your neighbours 'tis okay to be rude
'Tis okay to ignore an old lady in her twilight years wrinkled and gray
If she falls ill we might have to help her and for us that would be going out of our way.
Good family values just one set of values it doesn't say much for the person you are
If you do not pick up your aged neighbour who is carrying her shopping as you arrogantly drive by in your car
Your family and small circle of friends to you only important all others to nothing amount
But to those genuinely true to the higher principles everyone they know of to them count.
You are one of good family values you love your children and your wife
And though these values are quite important there are other values in life
You ignore your poor aged neighbour to her you never once did say
Can I do something for to help you and society sees you as okay.
Friends and family love you no matter what you do,
Friends and family Always help each other though.
Having wonderful people to help you along,
They encourage and inspire you to stay strong.
Friends and family are the trees of strength,
When you need their help, they'll go to any length.
They never judge you, just give you lots of love,
What wonderful blessings they are from God above.
Friends and family keep in touch,
You can lean on them, they'll be your crutch.
They email or call day by day
And for each other they always pray.
(James56/April 21 2007)
! ! GOOBY TO ALL MY FAMILY AND FRIENDS….I WILL MISS YOU ALL! !
Tonight I am going end my pain once and for all this is the only way I know that would stop the stabbing pain in my heart I know I only have 14 more days left but that’s too long this pain must
Stop tonight…My friend killed himself over a argument he had with his dad He said 'I WISH I COULD END MY LIFE TO STOP THE PAIN' The next morning he shot himself in the head the next morning
Well tonight I'm go to join you Cries
Tonight I will see you
Tonight will by my happiest night of my life
Tonight I'm going to…well
Let me just say that I'm going to a happier place
I will be
Listening to 'Ave Maria'
I told myself if I was going to kill myself
I would kill myself to the sound of this song
You all did what you could to save and repair my light of hope
And I thank you for this
By the time you knock on my door I will already be in my
Special place
I love you all
'Unless you try to do something beyond what you have already Mastered, you will Never Grow'
12/5/07
New born
and strawberry blond!
Your tiny head
thatched like your father's
(used to be, before the grey)
and I said,
'She takes after her father'
(proudly)
But  later,
your hair hidden in a hat,
you gaze calmly at me
with my own ironic expression
and I can see
my mother
and her mother
looking back at me
and I'm proud
and glad
of that.
........................................ ............................................
Honor thy family
For doing
The things
Your family
Does
For
you
Children
Imagine a Human Family picnic
where everyone shows:
from every sect and hue and nation
gathered at a common table.
The Almighty swoops down to bless us:
known to all from Torah, Q'uran and Gospels
and countless other books of wisdom -
known to our souls' aspirations.
After dessert, the Holy One
quakes the earth with his scepter
beside the sacrificial pyre,
“Brothers, sisters and cousins,
images of your creator,
every unholy war
desecrates the face of God
and there is no other kind.
Cast your savage pride to the flames
and live together in peace! ”
Obediently, we toss our
pride onto the pyre
recoiling from its smoldering stench.
The Lion lies down to preen the Lamb's fleece
and Universal Love, released from her chains,
Walks free in every land.
August,  2006
To be a part of a family like mine
is so divine
where love is shown
hurt is shared
our love for each other is never impaired
we talk
we laugh
we cry
but we are a family
and we do it all together
for as a family
we do it all as one
you hurt one
you hurt all
and as a family unit
we will all stand tall
for we are family
a family full of strength
a family full of love
a family no one can touch
that's why I love my family so much.
It's Saturday Night Live.....
I mean come on. It’s Chicago’s South side.
Admittedly, there is no evidence of that,
but on the other hand,
there is no convincing evidence
to the contrary and this is just one
of the lingering questions
about Senator Barrack Obama….
incest is best...
at least that's what my sister said
What  Oh, I'm sorry did you say something?
I Love You To all I love this will
Put in short how I feel... Grandmere ... Um remez ou
Mommy ... I love you
Father ... I love you
Grandaddy ... I love you
Parker Posey ... I love you
2pac ... I love you
Katharine Ross ... I love you
Love ... I love you
Aaliyah ... I love you
Princess Diana (who I think of as Queen Diana) ... I love you
Those who come real to me ... I love you
Rainy, gloomy, cool, windy, breezy, & snowy cold days ... I love you
Sandy Dennis ... I love you
Uncle J.R. ... I love you
Haiti ... Um remez ou
Strong-willed, real people of the world ... I love you
Tanesha ... I love you
Liv Tyler ... I love you
GOD ... I love you
Abner Louima ... Um remez ou
Rain ... I love you
Jennifer Saunders ... I love you
All who have loved me and will
love me .. I love you
Mother Teresa ... I love you
Ms. Nichols ... I love you
Patricia Arquette ... I love you
Huey P. Newton ... I love you
Muhammad Ali ... I love you
Nonconformists (the true soldiers)
fighting and dying, in the struggle for
our well-being ... I love you
Snow ... I love you
Tia ... I love you
Country parts of Illinois ... I love you
Johnathon Schaech ... I love you
Ginger Rogers ... I love you
Jane Fonda ... I love you
Absolutely Fabulous ... I love you
Animals (slaughtered for greed, money, sport, & food) ... I love you
Lonely people who need real friends ...
I love you
Fugees ... Um remez ou
Whitney Houston ... I love you
Aunt Sullivan ... I love you
My predecessor's who have fought and
died for me to be here today ...
I love you
Quentin Tarantino ... I love you
Ricky Nelson ... I love you
William McNamara ... I love you
The millions of Africans who were enslaved
and murdered ... I love you
Toussaint L'Overture ... Um remez ou
Garcelle Beauvais ... Um remez ou
Those who stick by me until the
end ... I love you
Nature ... I love you
Paul Newman ... I love you And to all I love but have yet
to mention ... I love you I love you
I love you
I love you
I love you all I hope you feel the same ...
In a dark room,
Through heavy tapestry sunlight bloom.
Daughter, wife and husband,
Lonesome, baffled and stressed,
Laying on the hard pressed bed,
Staring at the running stars, with eyes red.
A pair of doves in the room,
Making love, unaware of the world’s doom,
Silently, stealthily,
Stole from their beds, sheepishly,
With heavy steps, moved to a mysterious lane,
Where men and women come and go, to tame.
Page 3 sportive people inhabit here,
Leave their doors ajar, there.
Eking out for social liberation,
Exposing them, for worlds’ hibernation.
Rubbing cheek to cheek and breast to breast,
Like two pigeons in one nest,
Crushing golden head by golden head,
Tasted the juice of forbidden fruit, red,
A storm, all calm and passion spent.
All returned with aching dent,
Pair of doves still making love, without vent,
Family was a multicultural liberated jaunt.
From:
DR. Yogesh SHARMA
To my dearest family, some things I'd like to say,
But first of all to let you know that I arrived okay.
I'm writing this from Heaven, where I dwell with God above,
Where there are no tears or sadness, there is just eternal Love.
Please do not be unhappy, just because I'm out of sight,
Remember that I'm with you, every morning, noon and night.
That day I had to leave you, when my life on earth was through,
God picked me up and hugged me, and said, ' I welcome you'.
'It's good to have you back again.
You were missed while you were gone.
As for your dearest family, they'll be here later on.
I need you here so badly as part of my big plan.
There's so much that we have to do, to help our mortal man'.
Then God gave me a list of things he wished for me to do.
And foremost on that list of mine, is to watch and care for you.
I will be beside you, every day of the week and year,
And when you're sad I'm standing there, to wipe away the tear.
And when you lie in bed at night, the day's chores put to flight,
God and I are closest to you in the middle of the night.
When you think of my life on Earth, and all those loving years,
Because you're only human, there's bound to be some tears.
One thing is for certain, though my life on Earth is over,
I am closer to you now than I ever was before.
And to my many friends, trust God knows what is best.
I am not far away from you, I'm just beyond the crest.
There are rocky roads ahead for you and many hills to climb,
Together we can do it, taking one day at a time.
It was my philosophy and please I'd like for you,
To give unto the world, so the world will give to you.
If you can help someone who's in sorrow or in pain,
Then you can say to God at night, my day was not in vain.
And now I am contented that my life it was worthwhile,
Knowing as I passed along the way, I made somebody smile.
When you're walking down the street and I am on your mind,
I'm walking in your footsteps, only half a step behind.
And when you feel a gentle breeze of wind upon your face,
That's me giving you a great big hug, or just a s oft embrace.
When it's time for you to go from that body to be free,
Remember you are not going, you are coming home to me.
I will always love you, from that place way up above,
I will be in touch again soon.
P.S. God sends his love.
For Tammy, my beautiful Aunt
My brother Lee Wagner and wife
My sister Billies Rose and husband George Tmeple
Me and my Husband Walter Hoffpavir
My sister Jewel Dyan and husband Curtis Diyon
My sister Ruby Lee and husband Walter Wright
My baby sister Joyce and husband Charles Staples
My brother Walter Toler and wife
I have two boys Rex and Ralph
Living nearby with children of their own
Grandchildren on the way
But where the tall grass grows
Birds nest in the trees
The wind blows free
My family will forever be in my heart,
My sister's mean the world to me,
More than life,
All I ever wanted was a complete family,
To have a mother whom I never met,
My family will always remain who they are in my heart and soul,
My family is more important than my friends and my lover,
Family will always come first,
Family is family,
No matter what they did they'll always remain family.
Part of my family is grown up and tall.
Part of my family is little and small.
I'm in the middle and pleased with them all.
Being born into a big family
in the midst of uncertainties,
Real understanding
and perseverance it carries.
All sorts of human thoughts
and emotions set into focus,
Towards realigning own family solidarity
despite wide disparity
On the basis of practicality
loyalty and sincerity.
Families produced though varied in sizes
and unevenly shared  rapport,
Act on the instinct of love
respect and moral support.
Men and women alike are one
in times of a true call,
Inspiring each member to be strong
and to stand tall.
Life could be rough and tough
yet not one must quit,
Yield only to the family
and never to others outside it.
My new family I am starting to build
This is the biggest opportunity  for me
I don’t want to die alone
I have seem too much loneliness
And too much sadness in my life
I had gone through it all alone
Not even the evil force can destroy me anymore
My new family soon I will have
I can say that now I am the luckiest woman in the world
Happiness found my way
And it is here to stay
I can’t wait for this moment to arrive that I will have my new family
That I can call my own
I hope my new family will be united
And that I can really love than more
I hope I can be closer and united with my new family
I won’t be lonely anymore
Because my new family will be here soon
And life without a new family is devastating to me
So when this happen I will put together a photo album of my new family
For every one to share
I've  never felt so ''welcomed''
or just so ''right at home''
It's funny how much we can read
into another's poem.
I've been given such nice offers
of family and of friends.
I hope to keep in touch with them
even if this website ends.
I've gotten an ''adopted mum''!
How sweet this is to me!
It's more than I had hoped for
when I googled ''poetry''.
Now I have been offered
''adopted'' siblings too!
How did I get so lucky
to have just bumped into you!
This site is such a pleasure
where the lost souls can be found.
I love you all and thank you
for letting me hang around!
There are so many others that have made me feel at ease.
I couldn't mention each of you so forgive me if you please!
I.
I haven’t spoken to my brother in ten years.
His brain was slammed in a car accident,
never got any therapy because dad didn’t believe in it.
Somehow he came into some money
and spent it on surplus military vehicles,
which he leases to Hollywood from time to time.
II.
When my dad’s appendix burst, he didn’t know it,
tried to kill the pain with bourbon,
finally phoning me in delirious distress
and I called the ambulance.
My sister wouldn’t let the paramedics in.
The police came with a megaphone,
busted down the door.
III.
I hadn’t spoken to my alcoholic mother in 13 years
when a stranger called and said she was dying.
I flew to Chicago and spent the afternoon
at her comatose side telling her body
what I’d been doing for the last 13 years.
She died the next afternoon
while I was out getting a sandwich.
Go to Vimarasan City
“Oh my dear, listen
Take the two children
To your father’s place.
You can live in peace.”
“For them, it’ll be difficult
To cross the hot dessert.
So, you go with them
And take care of them.”
Like this, the tired Nalan
In the interest of the children
Tried to convince Dhamayanthi,
Who heard it reluctantly.
Difficult to get a lover
She said, “It’s easy to beget
Children, as many as we want,
But it’s difficult to get
A lover of your might.”
Tears flowed in her eyes,
When she said like this.
She was very much upset,
And didn’t like to depart.
Person with no children
“Dhamayanthi! Listen,
A person with no children,
Will never go to heaven,
So, take care of our children.”
Is there one?
“Wealth, one may have,
Or, fame, he may have.
If he has no children
His life is empty then.”
What is the use?
“A person may learn,
All the scriptures even,
Yet, without children,
His life is a waste then.”
Let us go
“She said, “You’ve lost,
Everything to the last,
Let us go to our father
And comfortably live there.”
It is a shameful act
He said, “It’s like begging
Rich people, for our living.
Having lost our wealth
It’ll be an act of filth.”
Not a man, but madman
“A king begging another king
Is it not an unworthy thing?
He’s not a man, but madman
If he does it like a cheap person. “
Send children
She told, “If it’s so,
Let the children go,
And stay with my father,
For their good future.”
Why separate us?
Children tried to impress,
“Why do you send us
To another distant place.
Please don’t separate us.”
She was sad
When the children cried,
She was very much sad.
She hugged them closely
As a mother cried loudly.
Life was taken
A Brahmin led the children,
To the palace of Vimarasan,
While their parents cried,
In their duty, having failed.
Heart broken
With a broken heart,
Behind them Nalan went,
For some distance,
Till their disappearance.
He did not talk to her,
And silently stood there.
Was his fate, the main one,
Or his act caused his ruin?
Thinking and thinking,
He kept on worrying,
His mind became blank,
And he became sick.
He was the king
Dhamayanthi was certain
That the cook was Nalan.
She told this to her father
“As a cook, Nalan is here.”
Vimarasan got confused
Vimarasan saw the cook,
But with cook’s ugly look,
He got confused, how that man
Could be his daughter’s Nalan?
From the talk he learnt
The cook talked like Nalan,
So, it could be her Nalan,
At first, Vimarasan guessed.
This finally, he confirmed.”
Show your real shape
Vimarasan said, ‘Oh Nalan,
Of this great land you own,
This is not your shape.
Show me your real shape.”
King Cobra’s robe
Nalan thought for while,
And gave a soft smile.
He got himself dressed.
With the robe he had.
(The robe was given
By the King Cobra)
Charioteer was gone
The shape of charioteer,
Was no more there,
Instead, the great warrior
King Nalan stood there.
Children found
His children shed tears
When they saw their father,
And fell at his feet
As a mark of respect.
How Dhamayanthi came?
There Dhamayanthi came
Wearing half cut sari, the same
One she wore in the forest.
With tears, she fell at his feet.
Tears covered her vision
He left her alone in the forest
Because her eyes were shut.
Now the tears blocked her vision.
So, clearly she couldn’t see Nalan.
Flowers rained
All Devas from the heaven
Showered flowers like rain.
They said, “Is there anyone
So noble like this Nalan? ”
Kali’s request
Before Nalan, Kali appeared.
“Oh king, I’m well pleased.
For chastity, it’s your woman.
For justice, you’re the one.”
“You ask for any boon.
I’ll grant the same one.”
This Nalan’s story did melt,
Even the Kali’s stone heart.
Don’t go near
Nalan prayed, “Don’t go near
Those pious people, who hear
My story and trouble them
Now or at any time.”
Kali’s promise
Kali said, “I promise
That I’ll not catch those
Who hear your story,
Or cause them any worry.”
Gave a feast
Vimarasan gave a feast
To Nalan and the rest,
To celebrate their reunion
After years of separation.
Ayodhya King requested
Ayodhya King requested
“I may kindly be excused, ”
He took leave of Nalan,
And went back alone.
More than 18 million proud Americans
Voted for you.
Billions of your fellow men and women
Listened to your acceptance speech
And watched you
Tonight.
Obama, you have a big family.
You are writing and re-writing history.
Hillary and Bill Clinton unleashed
A barrage of truths about our current plight.
Biden, Dean, Kerry and others let the dog out
And all eligible voters shout:
“Obama, you have a big family”.
Senator McCain is a good man;
Being a good soldier and decent;
He should remain in the Senate’s den
To help you govern and command
This great country. He is a good combatant;
He is going to understand.
Obama, you have a big family.
The whole American family is behind you,
Some members just love secrecy.
You know how it is; nevertheless many love you.
Obama, you have a big family.
“The dream shall never die”, said once, Ted.Kennedy.
Bama, the entire world is your family.
King’s dream is alive, that’s the American dream.
We are strong and united. You are like a beam
Of hope for a better tomorrow.
With your vigor and energy, there is no sorrow.
Obama, you have a big family
Millions are waiting to vote again,
Millions are dreaming
Of you winning, winning
The AMERICAN PRESIDENCY.
Obama, you have a big family
You are already an indisputable winner,
You are already a great leader.
No matter what November will bring,
You will remain a sibling.
May God bless America,
May God bless you and the whole family.
You are not the panacea,
You are the head of the family.
Obama, you have a big family.
Copyright © August 28,2008 Hebert Logerie, All rights reserved
Author of 'Sparkles of Love' and 'Etincelles de l'Amour'
Hébert Logerie is the author of “Mounts And Valleys of Love”
https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359
PLEASE ORDER AT ORDERS@XLIBRIS.COM OR CALL 1-866-957-5010!
Whatever happened
To the family physician?
His genial compassionate
Demeanour had a placebo effect,
And you felt at ease
In his presence.
You were half cured
By his kind words.
He could diagnose
By studying your pulse.
He really had the
Touch of a magician.
Now there is
A specialist for every part
Of your anatomy.
When unwell
You go to see him.
Without looking you
In the eye,
He will ask you
What brings you by?
In a tone
Devoid of emotion,
Says we’ll investigate
And do some tests.
When you are done
And armed with a file
Go back and wait for your turn.
Feeling tense and fragile.
After going through your file,
He looks at you with disdain in his eyes.
Everything is fine,
It’s just in your mind.
And scribbles
A prescription in his illegible hand
For sedatives,
And advice to make life style changes.
Exasperated
You look for alternatives.
I suspect even if they have a clue,
It’s a simple case of flu,
They send you for tests
As they get handsome cuts from labs.
Oh where, oh where
Is the family physician,
He didn’t send you
For invasive tests,
And several opinions
He really had
The touch of a magician.
We class ourselves as branches
on our family tree,
each person has a branch
and each branch has its branches
growing out of it.
Let’s go back to the beginning,
who would be the base
of our family tree.
In being logical,
we take the first names
in our written history
and those first two names
have to be Adam and Eve.
Now if they are the base
from which all families grow.
That makes everyone
on earth one big family,
and that makes everyone we talk to
part of our big family tree.
7 March 2008
A happy family is one blessed by God!
Both parents slog all life for their children;
And children honor parents, without rod;
All walk united en way to Heaven.
A happy family lives in piety;
Their home is warm and welcomes everyone;
They’re satisfied and live with satiety;
There’s time for love, care, work, play, also fun!
A happy family loves its neighbors well;
All share their joys, woes, grief and problems too;
Their faith in God, their smiling faces tell;
With divine aim, all earthly works, they do!
A happy family prays in harmony;
God meets their needs of body, soul, money!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 12-1-2006
I have special family memories
Of when I was just a child
My family did things together
More often than once in awhile
We would go to church together
Then afterward a Sunday drive
With roast beef and mashed potatoes
When back home we’d later arrive
We’d to go the movies on occasion
My mom, dad, brother and me
I remember especially seeing Bambi
Although that was sad for me to see
But family is so important
It creates a special bond
I have many family memories
Of which I’m so terribly fond!
With open arms
They welcomed me
With open arms
They let me stay
With open hearts
They loved me
With open hearts
They show they cared
With open minds
They listend to me
With open minds
they believed me
Its very hard to find people
People that care
So hard infact
I think it's rare
He is a hero
not by sibling ordinal age,
nor by fate.
He did not choose
whatever he became.
You see . . . his father drank himself
out of fortune, family, and prestige,
right into the nothingness
of the streets.
Cold and motionless,
without anyone
to claim what remained,
a city dump truck
took him to the grave.
Not just any power greater than he
but The Lord alone,
led the hero to success
and . . . away from alcohol.
Oh! a private buffoon is a light-hearted loon,
If you listen to popular rumour;
From morning to night he's so joyous and bright,
And he bubbles with wit and good humour!
He's so quaint and so terse, both in prose and in verse;
Yet though people forgive his transgression,
There are one or two rules that all Family Fools
Must observe, if they love their profession.
There are one or two rules,
Half-a-dozen, maybe,
That all family fools,
Of whatever degree,
Must observe if they love their profession.
If you wish to succeed as a jester, you'll need
To consider each person's auricular:
What is all right for B would quite scandalise C
(For C is so very particular);
And D may be dull, and E's very thick skull
Is as empty of brains as a ladle;
While F is F sharp, and will cry with a carp,
That he's known your best joke from his cradle!
When your humour they flout,
You can't let yourself go;
And it DOES put you out
When a person says, "Oh!
I have known that old joke from my cradle!"
If your master is surly, from getting up early
(And tempers are short in the morning),
An inopportune joke is enough to provoke
Him to give you, at once, a month's warning.
Then if you refrain, he is at you again,
For he likes to get value for money:
He'll ask then and there, with an insolent stare,
"If you know that you're paid to be funny?"
It adds to the tasks
Of a merryman's place,
When your principal asks,
With a scowl on his face,
If you know that you're paid to be funny?
Comes a Bishop, maybe, or a solemn D.D. -
Oh, beware of his anger provoking!
Better not pull his hair - don't stick pins in his chair;
He won't understand practical joking.
If the jests that you crack have an orthodox smack,
You may get a bland smile from these sages;
But should it, by chance, be imported from France,
Half-a-crown is stopped out of your wages!
It's a general rule,
Though your zeal it may quench,
If the Family Fool
Makes a joke that's TOO French,
Half-a-crown is stopped out of his wages!
Though your head it may rack with a bilious attack,
And your senses with toothache you're losing,
And you're mopy and flat - they don't fine you for that
If you're properly quaint and amusing!
Though your wife ran away with a soldier that day,
And took with her your trifle of money;
Bless your heart, they don't mind - they're exceedingly kind -
They don't blame you - as long as you're funny!
It's a comfort to feel
If your partner should flit,
Though YOU suffer a deal,
THEY don't mind it a bit -
They don't blame you - so long as you're funny!
We bought an electric monkey, experimenting rather
recklessly with funds carefully gathered since
grandfather's time for the purchase of a steam monkey.
We had either, by this time, the choice of an electric
or gas monkey.
The steam monkey is no longer being made, said the monkey
merchant.
But the family always planned on a steam monkey.
Well, said the monkey merchant, just as the wind-up monkey
gave way to the steam monkey, the steam monkey has given way
to the gas and electric monkeys.
Is that like the grandfather clock being replaced by the
grandchild clock?
Sort of, said the monkey merchant.
So we bought the electric monkey, and plugged its umbilical
cord into the wall.
The smoke coming out of its fur told us something was wrong.
We had electrocuted the family monkey.
Hinemoa, Tui, Maina,
All of them were born together;
They are quite an extra special
Set of babies--wax and leather.
Every day they took an airing;
Mummy made them each a bonnet;
Two were cherry, one was yellow
With a bow of ribbon on it.
Really, sometimes we would slap them,
For if ever we were talking,
They would giggle and be silly,
Saying, "Mamma, take us walking."
But we never really loved them
Till one day we left them lying
In the garden--through a hail-storm,
And we heard the poor dears crying.
Half-Past-Six said--"You're a mother!
What if Mummy did forget you?"
So I said, "Well, you're their Father.
Get them!" but I wouldn't let you.
You put up with it because
as tiresome as it is, and as they can sometimes be,
somewhere there, there's always love.
He may take interest
in something to be repaired
that's mechanical; and
there's cars to wash and clean,
hobby things to sort and tidy.
Some kids are good or disciplined;
but there's never quite the time
in their expanding world
for doing just what you do
for the house..
But in the human heart
there's this locked, dusty room - you haven't  dared
to look inside for years - or indeed
since childhood, for some people -
full of junk, of cobwebs,
broken windows, their sashes jammed,
cupboards that won't open, drawers
whose contents stop them opening; even
the birds have stopped their nesting there;
a room of memories that whisper when it's dark
It's the room that's family.
And surprise - the light still works..
A family can sort and dust and wash and clean and tidy it
in less time than they take
to slam the door
yet only you know that it's done, and how it's done.
And you say nothing.
Somewhere, two strangers
smile at one another
The family the used to be
There was once a happy family
Everything seem to be going right
Everybody was happy
There was no arguments or no fights
My mom and dad loved each other
Well at least I thought so
But after 2 years or so
All the love seemed to go
And disappear into the night
They began to argue
They began to fight
This hurted me inside
At night I cried
I hated for the family to fall apart
This truly broke my heart
When my father left the house
I didn’t care anymore
I wanted the family to be happy and full of love
But like my father that all went out the door
My heart felt so soar
I couldn’t love anymore
So I began to not care
Doing things I wouldn’t dare do
ONLY IF MY FATHER WAS HERE
My mom worries about me and wonder why I act this way
I never told her why
I just simply reply I’ll be ok
No one understands me
No one feels the pain I feel
When I think about how my family used to be
And how it is today
So a family the once used to be a family 3
Is now a family of 2
The house is quiet boring and blue
It’s not the same with out my dad here
But I can’t do nothing but cry (tear)
Signed a hurt child
By atiya
We've got a family album
Like a family tree
A thrill to turn the pages
The pictures we can see
Starting off with grands and greats
Then slowly down the line
Like a book of history
A journey through the time
Fashions start to alter
Mustaches come and go
Ladies skirts skip up and down
A proper fashion show
Top hats change to boaters
To caps then none at all
Ladies bonnets disappear
And so does grannies shawl
Picture's change to colour
Black and white has gone
A different place, a different time
So much to look upon
But what is so amazing
Is the likeness we can see
Showing up the genes
Right through our family tree
what do you think of when you say your family
do you think of those you share blood with
i sure don't
i think of those who are there for me
sure we do not share blood
but we share something strong
we share trust
so when you say family
i think of my online family
for those are the people that have been there for me
those are the ones that have helped me through thick and thin
those are the ones who have saved me in my darkness moments
these people started off as strangers
and now they know more about me
than people i have grown up with
these people
mean so much
sure we have never meant
and prolly never will
but still
with just their words
they have done so much
for they have saved a life
healed wounds i didn't think could be healed
they opened my eyes to the joys of the world
they freed my soul
and warmed my heart
all this from just words and being there
for all that they are my true family
for i am closer to them
than any others on earth
in my family there are many
my big bro– the funny stubborn one always looking out for me- always has the funny sh*t lol who worries cause he can't help it
my mother- such a caring woman who has been where I stand- in her job she see more pain and trouble than any should and yet she is always there to cheer me up
my father- with his wisdom, and powerful way with words- he has taught me more than any
my little sister-who has stood by my side through thick and thin
my big sister- who if she could would change this world so no one would feel pain
thank you all for you all never had to help me yet you all did
you showed me the true meaning of family
family
those of which you can trust
those of which trust you back
those who care for you
and comfort you
the ones you try your hardest to do the same to
this poem is for all you that have been there for me
without you guys don't know what i would do lol
you guys mean alot
thanks a bunch
As when the Paschal week is o'er,
Sleeps in the silent aisles no more
The breath of sacred song,
But by the rising Saviour's light
Awakened soars in airy flight,
Or deepening rolls along;
The while round altar, niche, and shrine,
The funeral evergreens entwine,
And a dark brilliance cast,
The brighter for their hues of gloom,
Tokens of Him, who through the tomb
Into high glory passed:
Such were the lights and such the strains.
When proudly streamed o'er ocean plains
Our own returning Cross;
For with that triumph seemed to float
Far on the breeze one dirge-like note
Of orphanhood and loss.
Father and King, oh where art thou?
A greener wreath adorns thy brow,
And clearer rays surround;
O, for one hour of prayer like thine,
To plead before th' all-ruling shrine
For Britain lost and found!
And he, whose mild persuasive voice
Taught us in trials to rejoice,
Most like a faithful dove,
That by some ruined homestead builds,
And pours to the forsaken fields
His wonted lay of love:
Why comes he not to bear his part,
To lift and guide th' exulting heart? -
A hand that cannot spars
Lies heavy on his gentle breast:
We wish him health; he sighs for rest,
And Heaven accepts the prayer.
Yes, go in peace, dear placid spright,
Ill spared; but would we store aright
Thy serious sweet farewell,
We need not grudge thee to the skies,
Sure after thee in time to rise,
With thee for ever dwell.
Till then, whene'er with duteous hand,
Year after year, my native Land
Her royal offering brings,
Upon the Altar lays the Crown,
And spreads her robes of old renown
Before the King of kings.
Be some kind spirit, likest thine,
Ever at hand, with airs divine
The wandering heart to seize;
Whispering, "How long hast thou to live,
That thou should'st Hope or Fancy gave
To flowers or crowns like these?"
The rose is a rose,
And was always a rose.
But the theory now goes
That the apple's a rose,
And the pear is, and so's
The plum, I suppose.
The dear only knows
What will next prove a rose.
You, of course, are a rose -
But were always a rose.
O flower at my window
Why blossom you so fair,
With your green and purple cup
Upturned to sun and air?
'I bloom, blithesome Bessie,
To cheer your childish heart;
The world is full of labor,
And this shall be my part.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O robin in the tree-top,
With sunshine on your breast,
Why brood you so patiently
Above your hidden nest?
'I brood, blithesome Bessie,
And sing my humble song,
That the world may have more music
From my little ones erelong.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O balmy wind of summer,
O silver-singing brook,
Why rustle through the branches?
Why shimmer in your nook?
'I flutter, blithesome Bessie,
Like a blessing far and wide;
I scatter bloom and verdue
Where'er my footsteps glide.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O brook and breeze and blossom,
And robin on the tree,
You make a joy of duty,
A pride of industry;
Teach me to work as blithely,
With a willing hand and heart:
The world is full of labor,
And I must do my part.
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O lesson well and wisely taught
Stay with me to the last,
That all my life may better be
For the trial that is past.
O vanity, mislead no more!
Sleep, like passions, long!
Wake, happy heart, and dance again
To the music of my song!
O summer days, flit fast away,
And bring the blithesome hour
When we three wanderers shall meet
Safe in our household flower!
O dear mamma, lament no more!
Smile on us as we come,
Your grief has been our punishment,
Your love has led us home.
not one less
of this family that must stick together and always save
one another, be it
whatever, a financial distress
emotional stress, societal imbalance,
technological displacements
the family shall be first
even in crime
passion, the family is one
in all conspiracies
not one less, each must be saved from shame
from destruction
i am tired of this,
i am getting out, i am  now a stranger, alone
against this family, i speak my mind, i blow the whistle
now, kill me
i am a corpse, i have long been dead in the dark chambers
of this family
the secrets too deadly,
kill me now, i dare, only if you can....
Family to me has many meanings
For all are full of diverse feelings
Love and anger, both within a single one
Children who stay and children who run
Can one family be better than another?
It all depends on how they love each other
A family’s love should last forever
Bonds of love nothing can sever
For the family I have, I am happy and blessed
And nothing more truthful have I ever confessed
Family has many meanings, but one rises above
The greatest meaning of family, is that of love
we are family,
although we do not resemble
although i am black and you are white
although you are rich and i am poor
we are family,
even though i am democrat, and you are republican
even though your ancestors are from Iraq, and mine are from Africa
even though you teach the class i'm enrolled in
we are family,
although i'm a poet and you are a singer
although you are old and i am young
although i'm a gentleman and you a lady
we are family,
even though you praise Allah and I praise Jesus Christ
even though i love football and you play soccer
even though you are a Sagittarius and i'm a Cancer
we are family,
although i prefer rhythm and blues and you love blue grass
even though you have a car and i have a bus…to ride
although i have love and you are alone
even though you dress one way, and i dress the other
although my family loves me and yours does not know of you
we are family,
you and i are family,
me and you are family,
no matter what the difference is
family we are, forever
because we are here, and here is earth
and earth is our home
so here, we will live,
we are family.
everyone has a place in a family
there are the crazy uncles
the wild aunts
the anger father
the gently mother
the sneaky cousins
the giving grandmother
the wise grandfather
the mature child
haha what a dream that is
meet my real family
drunk, abusive, or controlling uncles
crazy, angry, stressed, and untrust worthy aunts
alcoholic father that was never there
two faced, angry and high on herself mother
pissed off mood swing step father
lying and sneaky cousins
two faced grandmother
old fashion grandfather
a child who was never allowed to be a child
that child is me
and I am the black sheep of this family
the unwanted one
anyone in there right mind would not want to join this family
I sure as hell would love to run from it
so that is my family
you ever come never them i wish you good luck
for they can drive anyone to wits end
why can't family be family again
we used to always be friends
we used to huddle together
whenever we got scared
we felt the warmth in one anothers arms
because we knew the love was there
we used to build forts out of whatever we had in our rooms
and wage sars
throwing pillows, books, and brooms
we used to have mini mosh pits
with just the four of us
we headbanged and pushed
we screamed and pretended to cuss
we used to protect eachother
we used to defend one another
we used to stand together like brothers and sister
when mom punished us we would all resist her
we used to be a family
a family that would always care
we used to be a family with more happiness than despair
we used to be a family that never hogged food or air
we used to be a family that told eachother we were there
we used to be a family
a family that sat down toghether and ate
we used to be a family full of our own ideas that we create
we used to be a family that got along without debate
we used to be a family with more love than hate
so why can't family be family again
and remember why those times were so good
why can't family be family again
and treat eachother the way we should
why can't family be family again
and throw the hate away
why can't family be family again
and invite the love to stay
WHY DOES IT HAVE TO BE the FAMILY THAT DISREPECTS YOU?
WHY DOES IT HAVE TO BE the FAMILY WHO TALK ABOUT YOU BEHIND YOUR BACK?
WHY DOES IT HAVE TO BE THE FAMILY WHO CLOSES THE DOOR WHEN YOU NEED SOMEONE TO TALK TO?
WHY IS IT THE FAMILY WHO COULD CARE LESS ABOUT YOU?
WHY IS IT THE FAMILY who tell others your buisness?
Why does the family try to put you down?
Why does the family act the way they do towards one another?
Why does the family act like they’re not your family?
Why can’t the family just be family?
Saturday afternoon,
the air, now so hot, and streets
busy with that slightly faster pace of personal intention,
weekend plans:
I remember the face  from years ago -
dropout, errand boy, chancer, hanging around;
carrying that resentful face that settles on some school-age kids:
I'm just not bright...I'm told;
but here, now, today, at the pub' s front table
with his two sons, shining with non-stop conversation -
one an intelligent seven-and-a half, I'd guess,
one a very bright five-year-old,
-both of course a dab with mobile phones;
yet far more lively interested in the moment's talk
on this special boys' day out-
and though Dad reads the menu with slow finger,
you can almost see that magic circle in the air
that spells the enchantment of the family;
and I'm transported by wonder far past words
at that other magic circle
of love, sperm, fatherhood
and love...
Father, first of all know how much I love you and appreciate you
in my life.  Father you never leave me, always there to see me
through.  This week Father you were ever present in not only my
life but that of my daughter and I thank you for what you did for
her this week.  She now understands what I’ve been telling her
for quite sometime.  There you were Father showing her what she
needed to see, giving her the inspiration she needed and filling
her with positive energy enabling her to go after her dream with
the gifts that you gave her so long ago.  Thank you Father God for
always being present in my life.
Father I ask you to touch the  life  of a sister poet and her husband.
I know you know who I’m speaking of Father, so I won’t mention
any names.  I speak of a sister poet who lives a difficult life dealing with an alcoholic husband, but you know Father she is
standing by her husband, taking one day at a time.
Today Father I pray for a healing for this man,  help him to give  up this addiction in his life, help him to see the light, to  realize
what is happening to his wife, to know that he is going down hill
and needs to fight his way back into the real world.  This man
Father God is living as you know, in a haze, so I pray for a healing.
I pray that you step into their lives and show them your power.
I know there isn’t anything that you can’t do, you’ve showed me
that over and over Lord, now I ask that you do the same thing for
this couple.  She is tired Lord, tired of looking at her husband,
asking herself-why-. I’m sure this man wants to give up this
habit, but  he doesn’t know how Lord, but Father  with your help, he can do it.  Father God he needs a helping hand.  He has the
support of his wife and with your divine power and the blood of
Jesus covering them, they will find the strength to move on and
leave this alcoholic addiction behind them.
Father I ask that you talk to him, show him the way, inspire him to
want Jesus to be the center of their lives and to have a wonderful
relationship with you Father God.  Only you can help these people Father, only you can tear away the dark covering and shed  a bright
light within their lives. Father God, I pray for all others that may be suffering from this addiction, I pray that you enter their lives and give them a healing as well.  I know you know best Father and
I leave this with you for you are the all powerful, the all knowing
and the master of the universe.
Thank you Father for everything you do, I thank you  in the name of your son Jesus-Amen
Written:  Sept.21/2007
Father I come to you with open arms, wanting to feel your spirit.
Place my feet on Holy ground, open my ears to hear your glorious sound.  Open my eyes so I will see, take wasted fear away from me.
Father give me the hope I need to survive, allow me many years to stay alive.  Father you are the one I truly love, please send me your blessings from above.
Father walk with me, see me through, I’ll always keep my trust in you.  Forgive me Father you know I’ve sinned, a little tap perhaps
upon my chin.
Father I’ve listened to those with false charm,  placing myself in the way of harm.  Thank you for being  in the midst, with open
arms and a Heavenly kiss.
Father when the night is lonely and the tears come through, I desperately need to think of you.  Please take away all the strife, allow me to enjoy my life.
Father when I’m weak and meet many a stumbling block and can’t make sense of here nor there, then take me Father, far away, so I may start a brand new day.
Father I ask this prayer in the name of your son “Jesus Christ” our living Savior, sweet, sweet Jesus.
Written:  Oct.6,2007
Father you are always on my mind, I love you Father and trust
in you with all my heart.  I have no questions  for your decisions,
my faith is strong and true.
Father I’m in awe when I look around this world, when I stand
and take in the awesome views, I know this is the work of the
Master, and that Master for certain is you.
This morning Father I pray for those without faith, who can not
see pass their noses.  They have eyes that function, but they
truly can not see.
Father give these blind people the ability to come out from their
deadened shells, touch them with your spirit, let them see the
light.
Oh Father God, drench them with your love so they make no
mistake.  Take them by the hand so some day they too will
walk through Heaven’s Gate.
Father sometime young people are taken in  by those who have
no interest in their soul but only in the money that they hold.
The devil’s people live among us, taking advantage of many.
Your children need  your guidance Father and your continued
patience for I truly  believe some day they will come out of the
darkness, walk into the light and face the truth.
Father I leave these people to you, in your caring hands.  May
they make Jesus the center of their lives and join their brothers
and sisters who know the  truth, save them Father.
I Love you Father and I ask this Lord in the name of your only
Son Jesus.-Amen
Written:  Sept.30,2007
Dear Lord in heaven, this has been a very interesting week, still so much to learn and so much to be forgiven for.  Although Lord verbally we have not offended anyone but inwardly sometimes we have feelings of jealousy or envy.  These feelings truly are negative feelings and need to be dealt with.  Today Lord I pray that you rid our minds of such thoughts and replace those thoughts with grateful thoughts.  Show us how to look at things in a different light, to see what is important and not to focus on the material things in life but to realize that we were all given gifts and those gifts are to be treasured, respected and shared with others.
Father when others copy us, let us realize that this is a compliment, which shows that we  have the ability to set the trend, to take the lead and to move forward allowing others to follow and create a much brighter environment.
Father when others speak badly of us because they are feeling jealous of us, teach us not to react in a negative manner but to continue to hold on to the positive not allowing such words to hurt us.  Hold our hands a little tighter Lord.
Father, teach us to be humble and to always put you first, always have you at the head of our tables, present in our midst, clear in our thoughts, forever under your umbrella and Lord teach us to always listen to the whispers.
I thank you Father for all that you have done for me and I share this prayer with my brothers and sisters on poemhunter in the hope that they will find something here that may be of help to them.
I ask you Lord for forgiveness, I ask you to keep us out of harms way, I ask that you continue to walk with us, stand by us and to carry us when we can no longer walk.
Lord in the name of your son Jesus, I thank you, I love you, I respect you, I know you and I will always worship you.
Amen
Master of truth, destroyer of pain,
You have the power to give health back again.
Here me Master, cover me with your love.
Send your blessings from  high up  above.
I’ve followed in your footsteps, praised  your name.
I loved you from childhood but suffer just the same.
What have I done to displease you  my King,
Please find a way to whisper in my ear.
I’ll wait for you Master, oh yes I will surely hear.
I can only question, and ask for a reason,
but I will accept what you do any day, any season.
Lord I ask this question because I don’t understand.
You are the king, and your final word stands.
I’ll take my pain and my troubles to bear,
Lord God I’ll  wait patiently and hope soon to hear.
If no word comes Master and you close earth’s door.
Please take me Father to your Heavenly shore.
Written:  Jan.18,2008
Dear Lord in Heaven, I hear your voice in the sounds of the falling rain.
I feel you Lord when the warm winds touch my face
I see you when I look at the stars high in the sky.
When no one else is near me Lord, I know you are standing by.
When I’m weak Father, you give me strength and when I’m blind
Father you find a way to make me see.
You are the wind that whispers through the swishing of trees,
the quiet still that lingers in the open sea.
You are the roar of thunder before the great rains fall.
You are the spring, summer, winter and fall.
My dear Father you are everything, you are my all.
The King of kings Lord, you sit on the great throne,
the giver of love and the taker of pain.
Father I will continue to worship you again and again.
I love you Father with all my heart and soul,
without you Father I would not be whole.
I ask Father God, that you stay within my heart
and walk with me to the end of my days.
When  you take me Father to cross that threshold
to everlasting life.  Please lead me on that glorious
path to Calvary where I may stand and live with thee.
Thank you Father God in the name of your precious
Son “Jesus”.  A men
Written:  Jan.13,2008
Today my prayer will be short and sweet for you Father has given me yet another day to stand with strength upon my feet.  Father I ask only one thing in this short little prayer.  I ask Father that you unite  all the people of this earth as one.  I ask Father that you help us to realize that we really are sisters and brothers, that we are covered by the blood of the lamb, that no one can come between us while we are holding your glorious hand.  Father unite us so that we will grow strong and able to fight the enemy.  Protect us Father while we stand as soldiers under your great umbrella.  Let us find peace in this world Father.  I leave it all to you Father for you are our great leader, you are the King,   You have the ability to make great mountains crumble and to part the rough waters of the sea, you are the all knowing and the great almighty.
Father I leave this prayer for peace to you, knowing that you will know what to do.
I pray Father in the name of your precious son Jesus.  Amen
Written:  March 2,2008
Father, I want you to know how much I love you and appreciate
everything you do.  I know you're watching over me and always
by my side.
Father when I thought my time was up, you surprised me once
again, you gave me a helping hand and coaxed me to stand.
I was feeling weak and weary, but you wouldn't leave me alone,
so I had no choice but to listen to the whispers and follow your
lead.
I'm so glad I've learned to hear you Father and heed your every
word, for you've given me more time and I know what I must do.
I'll praise you every day and listen for your instructions, I'll witness
to others and tell them my story for you are my precious leader
and to you Father I give all the glory.
Father I ask that you put the blood of the lamb over all Poemhunter's, protect them Lord keeping them out of harms way and help them Lord to be more understanding and patient with other Poemhunter's that may not be as articulate.  We all have a voice Father and should all have equal opportunity to write our precious words, pen to paper.
Father I pray and thankyou in the name of your precious son Jesus.
Amen
Written:  Feb.16,2008
Father once again I come to you to ask yet for more blessings.  Oh Lord is there no end to what I ask for.  Each day new problems, new heartaches, more devistation, molestations, murders, drug use is increasing instead of decreasing.
Father God people are forgetting their purpose in life, they are lost.  Father many years ago, your son asked you to forgive them for they know not what they do.  Father when will they know what they're doing.
I have a difficult time Father looking at the news and reading of unnecessary killings, of a body found in close proximity, a body missing the head and very badly beaten.  Father God what kind of a person does this.  Satan is so busy and still finding a following.  I'm
concerned at the minds that he is still able to poison.
Today Father I pray that you take total charge and stop him in his tracks, that you cause these people to take a step back and think before they act.  That you cause these people who may be suffering from mental disorders, to seek help and allow the medical Doctor's to do what they are best trained for.
Father we need people that can show compassion, love and care to others and not to think of ways in which to harm them.
You my Father are so much more powerful than this evil being, please knock him out of the way and teach him a lesson.
I know you are listening Father and I know that you will take care of this evil when the time is right and only you Father know when that time is right.  I will never question why you do things the way you do.  I will hope that I will see positive changes in my time.
Father let me see people embracing and caring for each other instead of beating and killing each other.
You are the most high, the most intelligent, the king of all kings and I will trust in you and follow you all the days of my life.  Father God I truly have faith and will continue to follow you and love you.  I question you not.  Father I ask this in the name of yoru precious son 'Jesus'
Written:  Feb 24,2008.
(Dedicated to Bww and his 7 yr. Old daughter)
A daughter is beauty at its finest.
Heart of an angel, soul so pure, and sweet.
Daughters are one of God's most precious gifts that he has bestowed upon the world.
Angels in Heaven do not compare to thine beauty, and grace my ever so beautiful, and lovely  daughter.
Seeing you at birth brought more joy to me
than all the money in the world could ever do.
You are morning, bright, and shining,
you are noon, you reside at the highest point in my heart,
you are the dew kissed night.
You are my daughter, heart, and soul.
Oh father, my father
Am humbled by your ways
As you sustain innate integrity
Of having a low profile lifestyle
Always patience and responsible
As you stay loving mum till now
Oh father, my father
Am inspired by your manners
As you hold the cool temperance
Of always being forgiving and caring
Always supportive and understanding
As you are standing by for us till now
Oh father, my father
Am encourage by your humility
As you practice sound principles
Of fatherhood and a counselor
Always guiding us by example
As you live a clean life till now
No wonder I am your son
As I walk on your footsteps
Of being a dear good father
To my beloved own family
How I wish I could live on
To be like you till now at 75
Wilt thou forgive that sin where I begun,
Which was my sin, though it were done before?
Wilt thou forgive that sin, through which I run,
And do run still, though still I do deplore?
When thou hast done, thou hast not done,
For I have more.
Wilt thou forgive that sin which I have won
Others to sin, and made my sin their door?
Wilt thou forgive that sin which I did shun
A year or two, but wallow'd in, a score?
When thou hast done, thou hast not done,
For I have more.
I have a sin of fear, that when I have spun
My last thread, I shall perish on the shore;
But swear by thyself, that at my death thy Son
Shall shine as he shines now, and heretofore;
And, having done that, thou hast done;
I fear no more.
My beloved father, the last time we met
in company with your confidant and friend Abu,
we spoke of many things.
Most importantly the history I'd lost in the
half century of not being your son.
You surrendered me for expediency
because you were a man of peace.
The circumstances of then made me who I am,
and not necessarily the son you wanted;
But that's another story.
"Are you deaf, Father William!" the young man said,
"Did you hear what I told you just now?
"Excuse me for shouting! Don't waggle your head
"Like a blundering, sleepy old cow!
"A little maid dwelling in Wallington Town,
"Is my friend, so I beg to remark:
"Do you think she'd be pleased if a book were sent down
"Entitled 'The Hunt of the Snark?'"
"Pack it up in brown paper!" the old man cried,
"And seal it with olive-and-dove.
"I command you to do it!" he added with pride,
"Nor forget, my good fellow to send her beside
"Easter Greetings, and give her my love."
He’d grown quite tired by then, but still he tried
To appease or even please that ghost whose voice
Pursued him, critical of every move—
Pursued him easily, relentlessly;
A spectral helicopter hovering high
Above him, searchlight showering him in white,
As, trapped inside its shifting spot, he ran,
The voice reverberating in his ears.
But worse, it knew exactly what to say
To sink his heart and overthrow his mind
With crippling catalogues of ridicule.
And so he wrote…in hopes of being healed…and,
Stirred by family stories of one other,
Who threw this hammer—this one—at the mother.
He learned one more detail about that other:
He’d died too early but not soon enough,
And now lies silent in an unmarked grave—
Because the voice refused him any stone.
And so he wrote, and so the voice kept on;
Its arbitrary taunting would not yield,
And written words stacked high could not abate
This feeling that he’d never quite succeed.
He tried to have an understanding ear,
To listen for the mind behind the voice;
To call a truce; to show some sympathy;
To cry for one who gave what he received.
But Sympathy refused these mourning clothes,
And smiling, firmly forced the coffin closed.
I arose with my Lord upon my mind
And it occurred to me that no
Better or more reliable friend
Could one ever find!
Yesterday is a faded memory
For each day is brand new
And I know today is no exception
My Father has new things for me to do
Thank you Father for another day
And teach me now what role
For you this day I shall play
Plant my feet in the area of need as
You and I take our daily stroll
In your garden of love
But first cleanse me of my sins
And wash me as white as the
Wings of a snow white dove
Prepare my heart and my mind too
For all the glorious things you
Will for me to do
Then when my work this day is done
Arrange my thoughts to focus
Even more upon your only Son
Let me not close my eyes in sleep
Until I go to you in prayer
And thank you Lord for
Being right beside me
For you have always been
Right there
© Copyright 2003
Holding the little finger of your hand,
Walking on the mounds of paddy field,
Watching the dancing of green weeds,
Like the cuscuta weed in tomato field;
Watching greenery in the wet sand,
Teaching me to pluck the parasitic weeds,
Like sparrow teaching young to pick seeds
Helping paddy to grow with a healthy blend
Taking me out everyday  morning,
For a long paddy field walking,
Sparking a practice of dreaming
To be focused on becoming something;
I owe you for what I am,
You taught me to be a man,
With values I will live till I am,
You took me around to show our world,
Like the Sun taking the planets around,
Whenever I needed, You were there around
Like the sun, moon, planets going round and round
Teaching virtues which were in you profound,
Like the Egyptian sphinx on a mountain mound,
Giving the  books of Jesus & Vivekananda
Helping me to find divine ananda,
In those ancient sermons of Vedas
And the verses of sage Sarvajna;
There once was a fellow named Bart
he declared Father Death to be art
when the knock finally came
and death called out his name
he said, please, just one last farewell fart.
Father Death had ignored this small plea
Bart was home that was easy to see
when the loudest of farts
and it had to be Bart's
blew the reaper right down on his knee.
When the reaper is utterly humbled
and his job has been thoroughly bumbled
he will have to retreat
while admitting defeat
Bart was scared and he farted and mumbled.
So it is the olfactory nerve
that's the weak spot, it gives us new verve
so when Father death knocks
quickly strip off your socks
let him have it, say: 'Happy to serve.'
If collateral fallout disturbs you
a discloloured pyjama  perturbs, too
then you don't wear a frown
but a wide open gown
it's what 'DEATH-I-WILL-FART'  people must do.
Becoming The Man My Father Always Was
(for Brian D)
Each night
I would follow you
through the rituals
of what you had to do
being Daddy.
I wanted to be Daddy too.
Mimicking your gait
becoming an exact
copy
of you
trailing along
in your footsteps
like a lone seagull
following in the wake
of some great ship
of state
watching the water
burn
'til it was all bubbles
then letting it
calm down
before filling my mother's
hot water bottle
carrying it to her side
like a lover's gift.
I was
your little shadow.
She'd always smile:
'Thank you Danny! '
'That's alright love
was always the answer.
These the ritualistic words
in the hot water bottle ceremony.
Then he'd teach the clock
to bong
adjusting it with his hands
and wind up Time
so that it spit tick & tocks
all through the night
then go lock doors
turn keys
draw bolts.
'That's it, son! '
I used to imagine
being you
and now I am
my own man
winding up Time
bringing my missus
the gift of a hot water bottle
(the gift of me)
both equally
heart warming.
'Thank you Donall! '
she always smiles.
'That's all right love! '
I always answer.
Me the man
i am
because of you.
'Tis The
SONG OF LITTLE MARY,
Standing at the bar-room door
While the shameful midnight revel
Rages wildly as before.
Father, dear father, come home with me now!
The clock in the steeple strikes one;
You said you were coming right home from the shop,
As soon as your day's work was done.
Our fire has gone out our house is all dark
And mother's been watching since tea, --
With poor brother Benny so sick in her arms,
And no one to help her but me. --
Come home! come home! come home! --
Please, father, dear father, come home. --
Hear the sweet voice of the child
Which the night winds repeat as they roam!
Oh who could resist this most plaintive of prayers?
"Please, father, dear father, come home."
Father, dear father, come home with me now!
The clock in the steeple strikes two;
The night has grown colder, and Benny is worse
But he has been calling for you.
Indeed he is worse Ma says he will die,
Perhaps before morning shall dawn; --
And this is the message she sent me to bring
"Come quickly, or he will be gone." --
Come home! come home! come home! --
Please, father, dear father, come home. --
Hear the sweet voice of the child
Which the night winds repeat as they roam!
Oh who could resist this most plaintive of prayers?
"Please, father, dear father, come home."
Father, dear father, come home with me now!
The clock in the steeple strikes three;
The house is so lonely the hours are so long
For poor weeping mother and me.
Yes, we are alone poor Benny is dead,
And gone with the angels of light; --
And these were the very last words that he said
"I want to kiss Papa good night." --
Come home! come home! come home! --
Please, father, dear father, come home. --
Hear the sweet voice of the child
Which the night winds repeat as they roam!
Oh who could resist this most plaintive of prayers?
"Please, father, dear father, come home."
Come up from the fields, father, here's a letter from our Pete;
And come to the front door, mother-here's a letter from thy dear
son.
Lo, 'tis autumn;
Lo, where the trees, deeper green, yellower and redder,
Cool and sweeten Ohio's villages, with leaves fluttering in the
moderate wind;
Where apples ripe in the orchards hang, and grapes on the trellis'd
vines;
(Smell you the smell of the grapes on the vines?
Smell you the buckwheat, where the bees were lately buzzing?)
Above all, lo, the sky, so calm, so transparent after the rain, and
with wondrous clouds;
Below, too, all calm, all vital and beautiful-and the farm prospers
well.                                                        10
Down in the fields all prospers well;
But now from the fields come, father-come at the daughter's call;
And come to the entry, mother-to the front door come, right away.
Fast as she can she hurries-something ominous-her steps trembling;
She does not tarry to smoothe her hair, nor adjust her cap.
Open the envelope quickly;
O this is not our son's writing, yet his name is sign'd;
O a strange hand writes for our dear son-O stricken mother's soul!
All swims before her eyes-flashes with black-she catches the main
words only;
Sentences broken-gun-shot wound in the breast, cavalry skirmish,
taken to hospital,                                           20
At present low, but will soon be better.
Ah, now, the single figure to me,
Amid all teeming and wealthy Ohio, with all its cities and farms,
Sickly white in the face, and dull in the head, very faint,
By the jamb of a door leans.
Grieve not so, dear mother, (the just-grown daughter speaks through
her sobs;
The little sisters huddle around, speechless and dismay'd ;)
See, dearest mother, the letter says Pete will soon be better.
Alas, poor boy, he will never be better, (nor may-be needs to be
better, that brave and simple soul ;)
While they stand at home at the door, he is dead already;          30
The only son is dead.
But the mother needs to be better;
She, with thin form, presently drest in black;
By day her meals untouch'd-then at night fitfully sleeping, often
waking,
In the midnight waking, weeping, longing with one deep longing,
O that she might withdraw unnoticed-silent from life, escape and
withdraw,
To follow, to seek, to be with her dear dead son.
She hears me strike the board and say
That she is under ban
Of all good men and women,
Being mentioned with a man
That has the worst of all bad names;
And thereupon replies
That his hair is beautiful,
Cold as the March wind his eyes.
Father and daughter spend some quiet time together in the living room
Shining through the curtain is the sun
And outside is the glorious afternoon
Father reads to his daughter the poetry she loves
Father and daughter enjoy each other's company
Father takes his daughter by the hand
As they take a walk outside
Father cares for his daughter
And always wishes the very best to happen for her
I never thought I'd live
One day to see my daughter be
A Human Resources Policy Executive.
But then perhaps
My daughter’d rather
Not have a would-be poet for a father.
You're standing in the doorway.
Your workday is all done.
He waits to see you everyday,
this boy that is your son.
He hopes you will go fishing.
He hopes you'll shoot the gun.
He just wants to be with you,
this boy that is your son.
He is your spitting image.
To him you are ''The One''.
He hopes to be just like you,
this boy that is your son.
You show him what a man is.
You teach as you have fun.
You are admired as well as loved
by this boy that is your son.
You've got a friend forever.
Until the world is done.
Then, still you will be holding
this man that is your son.
I realized today
that winter would
not exist without
you, Father.
In a world where death
is confused with life,
your breath crystallizes
fear into snow.
Mounds and piles of snow.
Only when your breath
stops
will this snow ever cease.
Hey Father Death, I'm flying home
Hey poor man, you're all alone
Hey old daddy, I know where I'm going
Father Death, Don't cry any more
Mama's there, underneath the floor
Brother Death, please mind the store
Old Aunty Death Don't hide your bones
Old Uncle Death I hear your groans
O Sister Death how sweet your moans
O Children Deaths go breathe your breaths
Sobbing breasts'll ease your Deaths
Pain is gone, tears take the rest
Genius Death your art is done
Lover Death your body's gone
Father Death I'm coming home
Guru Death your words are true
Teacher Death I do thank you
For inspiring me to sing this Blues
Buddha Death, I wake with you
Dharma Death, your mind is new
Sangha Death, we'll work it through
Suffering is what was born
Ignorance made me forlorn
Tearful truths I cannot scorn
Father Breath once more farewell
Birth you gave was no thing ill
My heart is still, as time will tell.
"There where that ray touches the plain
And the shadows escape as if they really ran,
Warsaw stands, open from all sides,
A city not very old but quite famous.
"Farther, where strings of rain hang from a little cloud,
Under the hills with an acacia grove
Is Prague. Above it, a marvelous castle
Shored against a slope in accordance with old rules.
"What divides this land with white foam
Is the Alps. The black means fir forests.
Beyond them, bathing in the yellow sun
Italy lies, like a deep-blue dish.
"Among the many fine cities that are there
You will recogni2e Rome, Christendom's capital,
By those round roofs on the church
Called the Basilica of Saint Peter.
"And there, to the north, beyond a bay,
Where a level bluish mist moves in waves,
Paris tries to keep pace with its tower
And reins in its herd of bridges.
"Also other cities accompany Paris,
They are adorned with glass, arrayed in iron,
But for today that would be too much,
I'll tell the rest another time
(On the Anniversary of Lincoln's Birth)
Father, Father Abraham,
Today look on us from above;
On us, the offspring of thy faith,
The children of thy Christ-like love.
For that which we have humbly wrought,
Give us today thy kindly smile;
Wherein we've failed or fallen short,
Bear with us, Father, yet awhile.
Father, Father Abraham,
Today we lift our hearts to thee,
Filled with the thought of what great price
Was paid, that we might ransomed be.
Today we consecrate ourselves
Anew in hand and heart and brain,
To send this judgment down the years:
The ransom was not paid in vain.
Some believe their faith is a private thing,
While others praise and through their voices sing.
You must not allow anyone to silence your view,
Brothers and sisters, God truly loves you.
A child of God, is aware of God’s awesome gift,
and given the ability to witness His spiritual lift.
This gift must be shared with all around,
through written verse, speech or spiritual song.
I bear witness and give God all the glory,
For He is my everlasting story.
I say it loud and I say it clear,
God will remain in my life, year after year.
I’ll  shout it from the rooftops,
Father God, I love you, I’ll never stop.
I’ll call out your name till the end of my days,
and praise you my Lord in many, many ways.
My father, who I hardly knew,
Was never one to shirk.
He died in nineteen twenty four,
While helping friends at work.
He came from Colorado,
Where the men were taught to ride.
He joined the Army Engineers,
And did the job with pride.
At first, he went to Texas,
Where he joined a border fight,
Controlling Pancho Villa;
And the Army did it right.
When more important war developed,
Far across the sea,
He went to France in World War One
To battle Germany.
When peace was won, he married young,
And started family.
But long and healthy life for him
Just wasn't meant to be.
A good mechanic, then, he was;
'Sixteenth and L, ' his base.
'A place for everything, ' he'd say,
'And everything in place.'
While helping string a high antenna,
From the shop, outside,
A rotted window sill gave way.
He fell.
That's how he died.
(Mother told her three children about their father as they grew up.
I wrote this poem about him in Falls Church, Virginia, during October 1985.)
"My times are in Thy hand." -- Psalm XXXI.15
Father, I know that all my life
Is portioned out for me,
And the changes that are sure to come,
I do not fear to see;
But I ask Thee for a present mind
Intent on pleasing Thee.
I ask Thee for a thoughtful love,
Through constant watching wise,
To meet the glad with joyful smiles,
And to wipe the weeping eyes;
And a heart at leisure from itself,
To soothe and sympathise.
I would not have the restless will
That hurries to and fro,
Seeking for some great thing to do
Or secret thing to know;
I would be treated as a child,
And guided where I go.
Wherever in the world I am,
In whatsoe'er estate,
I have a fellowship with hearts
To keep and cultivate;
And a work of lowly love to do
For the Lord on whom I wait.
So I ask Thee for the daily strength,
To none that ask denied,
And a mind to blend with outward life
While keeping at Thy side;
Content to fill a little space,
If Thou be glorified.
And if some things I do not ask,
In my cup of blessing be,
I would have my spirit filled the more
With grateful love to Thee --
More careful -- not to serve Thee much,
But to please Thee perfectly.
There are briers besetting every path,
That call for patient care;
There is a cross in every lot,
And an earnest need for prayer;
But a lowly heart that leans on Thee
Is happy anywhere.
In a service which Thy will appoints,
There are no bonds for me,
For my inmost heart is taught "the truth"
That makes Thy children "free;"
And a life of self-renouncing love
Is a life of liberty.
Father, i'm no Catholic
but i must Confess:
i've been a bad girl.
My mind's Mayor of the Gutter
and my Body's just a tool for him
(whoever 'he' is...)
Fantasies are my harsh Reality;
maybe i'm a little 2Fast2Furious...
I see more of the boys than meets the eye
when I see them walking by.
Yeah, you don't have to remind me;
I know it's a Tragedy
that I must write these Sins
You are over there, Father Malloy,
Where holy ground is, and the cross marks every grave,
Not here with us on the hill --
Us of wavering faith, and clouded vision
And drifting hope, and unforgiven sins.
You were so human, Father Malloy,
Taking a friendly glass sometimes with us,
Siding with us who would rescue Spoon River
From the coldness and the dreariness of village morality.
You were like a traveler who brings a little box of sand
From the wastes about the pyramids
And makes them real and Egypt real.
You were a part of and related to a great past,
And yet you were so close to many of us.
You believed in the joy of life.
You did not seem to be ashamed of the flesh.
You faced life as it is,
And as it changes.
Some of us almost came to you, Father Malloy,
Seeing how your church had divined the heart,
And provided for it,
Through Peter the Flame,
Peter the Rock.
His heart a wound
brooding and dark,
he prays for days
when the clouds
will burn.
His heart a bruise
tender and shy,
he dreams of nights
made of marzipan stars.
Father of love, to thee I bend
My heart, and lift mine eyes;
O let my pray'r and praise ascend
As odours to the skies.
Thy pard'ning voice I come to hear,
To know thee as thou art:
Thy ministers can reach the ear,
But thou must touch the heart.
O stamp me in thy heav'nly mould,
And grant thy word appl'd
May bring forth fruit an hundred fold
And speak me justify'd.
Life has many ways, of telling our age
Each more interesting, with each new page
But in my heart, you will never grow old
Dear Father of mine, with many stories to be told
With patience and love, you guided me
Bringing me up, the best I could be
You worked hard and long, even after I was grown
Thank you dear Father, for the love you have shown
So much to be learned, from your experience
All you went through, all your endurance
I will always treasure, what you have done
Dear Father of mine, you're number one
So often this child, has failed to say
How much you're loved, each passing day
And I thank God, He picked you to be
The Greatest Father, ever for me
My father knows the proper way
The nation should be run;
He tells us children every day
Just what should now be done.
He knows the way to fix the trusts,
He has a simple plan;
But if the furnace needs repairs,
We have to hire a man.
My father, in a day or two
Could land big thieves in jail;
There's nothing that he cannot do,
He knows no word like "fail."
"Our confidence" he would restore,
Of that there is no doubt;
But if there is a chair to mend,
We have to send it out.
All public questions that arise,
He settles on the spot;
He waits not till the tumult dies,
But grabs it while it's hot.
In matters of finance he can
Tell Congress what to do;
But, O, he finds it hard to meet
His bills as they fall due.
It almost makes him sick to read
The things law-makers say;
Why, father's just the man they need,
He never goes astray.
All wars he'd very quickly end,
As fast as I can write it;
But when a neighbor starts a fuss,
'Tis mother has to fight it.
In conversation father can
Do many wondrous things;
He's built upon a wiser plan
Than presidents or kings.
He knows the ins and outs of each
And every deep transaction;
We look to him for theories,
But look to ma for action.
He never made a fortune, or a noise
In the world where men are seeking after fame;
But he had a healthy brood of girls and boys
Who loved the very ground on which he trod.
They thought him just little short of God;
Oh you should have heard the way they said his name –
‘Father.’
There seemed to be a loving little prayer
In their voices, even when they called him ‘Dad.’
Though the man was never heard of anywhere,
As a hero, yet somehow understood
He was doing well his part and making good;
And you knew it, by the way his children had
Of saying ‘Father.’
He gave them neither eminence nor wealth,
But he gave them blood untainted with a vice,
And opulence of undiluted health.
He was honest, and unpurchable and kind;
He was clean in heart, and body, and in mind.
So he made them heirs to riches without price –
This father.
He never preached or scolded; and the rod –
Well, he used it as a turning pole in play.
But he showed the tender sympathy of God.
To his children in their troubles, and their joys.
He was always chum and comrade with his boys,
And his daughters – oh, you ought to hear them say
‘Father.’
Now I think of all achievements ‘tis the least
To perpetuate the species; it is done
By the insect and the serpent, and the beast.
But the man who keeps his body, and his thought,
Worth bestowing on an offspring love-begot,
Then the highest earthly glory he was won,
When in pride a grown-up daughter or a son
Says ‘That’s Father.’
We are born as sinners
Yet every child is innocent in God's eyes
So that every child goes to heaven
But those of us who are older,
Are we children?
We are named Children of God…
Do we get to go to heaven?
Father?
The long lines of diesels
groan toward evening
carrying off the breath
of the living.
The face of your house
is black,
it is your face, black
and fire bombed
in the first street wars,
a black tooth planted in the earth
of Michigan
and bearing nothing,
and the earth is black,
sick on used oils.
Did you look for me in that house
behind the sofa
where I had to be?
in the basement where the shirts
yellowed on hangers?
in the bedroom
where a woman lay her face
on a locked chest?
I waited
at windows the rain streaked
and no one told me.
I found you later
face torn
from The History of Siege,
eyes turned to a public wall
and gone
before I turned back, mouth
in mine and gone.
I found you whole
toward the autumn of my 43rd year
in this chair beside
a masonjar of dried zinnias
and I turned away.
I find you
in these tears, few,
useless and here at last.
Don't come back.
FATHERS
Fathers …
They are strong
When we need protection.
They are tender
When we need affection.
Fathers …
They are near
To chase our fears away.
They work hard
To provide day after day.
Fathers …
Their tasks many
Free minutes are so few.
They are special
For all the things they do.
Fathers …
They are disciplinarians
Yet soothe our pains away.
They are spiritual leaders
And taught us how to pray.
Fathers …
They are heroes
Though perfect they are not.
They are gracious
Our flaws some how forgot.
Fathers …
They are misjudged
In time they’ve given us.
They give wisdom
Through words spoken in love.
Fathers …
They are treasures
So today let us start,
Honoring our Father
And love with all our heart.
When Father Ranney left the States,
In Canada to try the fates,
He settled down in Dereham,
Then no dairyman lived near him;
He was the first there to squeeze
His cow's milk into good cheese,
And at each Provincial show
His famed cheese was all the go.
Then long life to Father Ranney
May he wealth and honour gain aye.
He always took the first prize
Both for quality and size,
But many of his neighbors
Now profit by his labors,
And the ladies dress in silk
From the proceeds of the milk,
But those who buy their butter,
How dear it is, they mutter.
Then long life to Father Ranney
May he wealth and honour gain aye.
Now we close this glorious theme,
This song of curds and rich cream,
You can buy your hoops and screws,
And all supplies for dairy use,
Milk cans and vats, all things like these
In Ingersoll great mart for cheese,
Here buyers do congregate
And pay for cheese the highest rate.
So we call on you again aye,
To honor Father Ranney.
'Twas the horse thief, Andy Regan, that was hunted like a dog
By the troopers of the upper Murray side,
They had searched in every gully -- they had looked in every log,
But never sight or track of him they spied,
Till the priest at Kiley's Crossing heard a knocking very late
And a whisper "Father Riley -- come across!"
So his Rev'rence in pyjamas trotted softly to the gate
And admitted Andy Regan -- and a horse!
"Now, it's listen, Father Riley, to the words I've got to say,
For it's close upon my death I am tonight.
With the troopers hard behind me I've been hiding all the day
In the gullies keeping close and out of sight.
But they're watching all the ranges till there's not a bird could fly,
And I'm fairly worn to pieces with the strife,
So I'm taking no more trouble, but I'm going home to die,
'Tis the only way I see to save my life.
"Yes, I'm making home to mother's, and I'll die o' Tuesday next
An' be buried on the Thursday -- and, of course,
I'm prepared to meet my penance, but with one thing I'm perplexed
And it's -- Father, it's this jewel of a horse!
He was never bought nor paid for, and there's not a man can swear
To his owner or his breeder, but I know,
That his sire was by Pedantic from the Old Pretender mare
And his dam was close related to The Roe.
"And there's nothing in the district that can race him for a step,
He could canter while they're going at their top:
He's the king of all the leppers that was ever seen to lep,
A five-foot fence -- he'd clear it in a hop!
So I'll leave him with you, Father, till the dead shall rise again,
Tis yourself that knows a good 'un; and, of course,
You can say he's got by Moonlight out of Paddy Murphy's plain
If you're ever asked the breeding of the horse!
"But it's getting on to daylight and it's time to say goodbye,
For the stars above the east are growing pale.
And I'm making home to mother -- and it's hard for me to die!
But it's harder still, is keeping out of gaol!
You can ride the old horse over to my grave across the dip
Where the wattle bloom is waving overhead.
Sure he'll jump them fences easy -- you must never raise the whip
Or he'll rush 'em! -- now, goodbye!" and he had fled!
So they buried Andy Regan, and they buried him to rights,
In the graveyard at the back of Kiley's Hill;
There were five-and-twenty mourners who had five-and-twenty fights
Till the very boldest fighters had their fill.
There were fifty horses racing from the graveyard to the pub,
And their riders flogged each other all the while.
And the lashin's of the liquor! And the lavin's of the grub!
Oh, poor Andy went to rest in proper style.
Then the races came to Kiley's -- with a steeplechase and all,
For the folk were mostly Irish round about,
And it takes an Irish rider to be fearless of a fall,
They were training morning in and morning out.
But they never started training till the sun was on the course
For a superstitious story kept 'em back,
That the ghost of Andy Regan on a slashing chestnut horse,
Had been training by the starlight on the track.
And they read the nominations for the races with surprise
And amusement at the Father's little joke,
For a novice had been entered for the steeplechasing prize,
And they found it was Father Riley's moke!
He was neat enough to gallop, he was strong enough to stay!
But his owner's views of training were immense,
For the Reverend Father Riley used to ride him every day,
And he never saw a hurdle nor a fence.
And the priest would join the laughter: "Oh," said he, "I put him in,
For there's five-and-twenty sovereigns to be won.
And the poor would find it useful, if the chestnut chanced to win,
And he'll maybe win when all is said and done!"
He had called him Faugh-a-ballagh, which is French for 'Clear the course',
And his colours were a vivid shade of green:
All the Dooleys and O'Donnells were on Father Riley's horse,
While the Orangemen were backing Mandarin!
It was Hogan, the dog poisoner -- aged man and very wise,
Who was camping in the racecourse with his swag,
And who ventured the opinion, to the township's great surprise,
That the race would go to Father Riley's nag.
"You can talk about your riders -- and the horse has not been schooled,
And the fences is terrific, and the rest!
When the field is fairly going, then ye'll see ye've all been fooled,
And the chestnut horse will battle with the best.
"For there's some has got condition, and they think the race is sure,
And the chestnut horse will fall beneath the weight,
But the hopes of all the helpless, and the prayers of all the poor,
Will be running by his side to keep him straight.
And it's what's the need of schoolin' or of workin' on the track,
Whin the saints are there to guide him round the course!
I've prayed him over every fence -- I've prayed him out and back!
And I'll bet my cash on Father Riley's horse!"
*
Oh, the steeple was a caution! They went tearin' round and round,
And the fences rang and rattled where they struck.
There was some that cleared the water -- there was more fell in and drowned,
Some blamed the men and others blamed the luck!
But the whips were flying freely when the field came into view,
For the finish down the long green stretch of course,
And in front of all the flyers -- jumpin' like a kangaroo,
Came the rank outsider -- Father Riley's horse!
Oh, the shouting and the cheering as he rattled past the post!
For he left the others standing, in the straight;
And the rider -- well they reckoned it was Andy Regan's ghost,
And it beat 'em how a ghost would draw the weight!
But he weighed in, nine stone seven, then he laughed and disappeared,
Like a banshee (which is Spanish for an elf),
And old Hogan muttered sagely, "If it wasn't for the beard
They'd be thinking it was Andy Regan's self!"
And the poor of Kiley's Crossing drank the health at Christmastide
Of the chestnut and his rider dressed in green.
There was never such a rider, not since Andy Regan died,
And they wondered who on earth he could have been.
But they settled it among 'em, for the story got about,
'Mongst the bushmen and the people on the course,
That the Devil had been ordered to let Andy Regan out
For the steeplechase on Father Riley's horse!
There is the family photograph
That is your father’s face,
There is your father’s father
Grey-gathering years apace;
The son, bright-eyed in the morning,
The father, lined and drawn,
The son became the father
On the day that you were born.
We’ve all set out on the highway
Our fathers wished us well,
The sons became the fathers
In the same distinctive spell;
The road of all beginnings
Is all there is to lend,
But many a twist, and many a turn
Has marred us at the end.
He was my father’s father,
I am my father’s son,
We’ve travelled as far, and farther
Than our father’s years have run;
The twists and turns of fortune
Mean nothing, lost or won,
But the love of a father’s father,
And the love of a father’s son.
3 September 1977
The father conceives his son
the son grows with his father
the spirit allows the heritage
Father, son, spirit. The father says sweet things to his son
the son is a rosebud to his father
the spirit remembers the instant of conception
Spirit, father, son. The father works, gladly
the son at school, learns much
the spirit, lovingly, joins them
Son, father, spirit The son makes his father, a good father
the union of father and son,
is the work of the spirit of love
Spirit, son, father.
I feel sorry to myself that …..
I have no memory of playing with you as my father
I did not have a chance to feel your hug... your love as my father;
It’s so tragic that I can’t even remember
How you look like… how you were as my father
When my friends talking about their fathers
It’s so sad that I have nothing to share about you
I know your full name,
But I don’t know who you are as a man… as my father;
Father.....who are you?
He wept for his father
His father who implored
him to not test life, to not
seek treasures unknown
But his son wanted more
and spent his long days
slashing the darkened skies
in conquest of a golden sun
But the son was like a god
opening his mouth to
warm the coldness of the earth
And his father did not bless
the Summers or Winters
of his son with the light
of his departure
The father turned his head
away, his once strong grip,
weakend, only the whitened
hollows of his face did he leave him.
Father, part of his double interest
Unto thy kingdom, thy Son gives to me,
His jointure in the knotty Trinity
He keeps, and gives to me his death's conquest.
This Lamb, whose death with life the world hath blest,
Was from the world's beginning slain, and he
Hath made two Wills which with the Legacy
Of his and thy kingdom do thy Sons invest.
Yet such are thy laws that men argue yet
Whether a man those statutes can fulfil;
None doth; but all-healing grace and spirit
Revive again what law and letter kill.
Thy law's abridgement, and thy last command
Is all but love; Oh let this last Will stand!
Father, part of his double interest
Unto thy kingdome, thy Sonne gives to mee,
His joynture in the knottie Trinitie
Hee keepes, and gives to me his deaths conquest.
This Lambe, whose death, with life the world hath blest,
Was from the worlds beginning slaine, and he
Hath made two Wills, which with the Legacie
Of his and thy kingdome, doe thy Sonnes invest.
Yet such are thy laws, that men argue yet
Whether a man those statutes can fulfill;
None doth; but all-healing grace and spirit
Revive againe what law and letter kill.
Thy lawes abridgement, and thy last command
Is all but love; Oh let this last Will stand!
Father, Saviour of mankind,
Who hast on me bestowed
An immortal soul, designed
To be the house of God;
Come, and now reside in me,
Never, never to remove;
Make me just and good, like thee,
And full of power and love.
Bid me in thy image rise,
A saint, a creature new,
True, and merciful, and wise,
And pure, and happy too.
This thy primitive design,
That I should in thee be blest,
Should within the arms divine
For ever, ever rest.
Let thy will on me be done;
Fulfil my heart's desire,
Thee to know and love alone,
And rise in raptures higher;
Thee, descending on a cloud,
When with ravished eyes I see,
Then I shall be filled with God
To all eternity!
When I was just 18 months old
My real father left me
You stepped up
And raised me as your own child
You feed me
You clothed me
You taught me everything I know now
I love you dad
And I always will
You were there every step of the way
You stood by my side
And never left me
When I needed you
You’re the best dad I could ever ask for
You were there when I was scared
You were there when I cried
You were there for all my birthdays
You were in my life then
You are still in my life now
And I hope you never leave
You are way more superior than my real father
We may not have the same blood or color
But we have something better then anything
We have love for one another
And an unbreakable bond
That no one can break
Not even my real Father
I AM PROUD TO CALL YOU MY OWN FATHER
My father
Is my friend...
In childhood...
I love my father
More and more...
I am a yelder son
For my father...
I asking toys...
I asking sweets...
More and more
At my father....
My father tell
About the stores
At god...
And ramayana...
And mahabarath...
I was enjoy
My father tell story...
Enjoy enjoy...
Today my father
Live my heart only
At my heart...
My father not pass away
He was leave my home
At sumall photo pream
But...
my father leave with my
Sence and thinking...
I love my father...!
Dear Lord in Heaven, I woke up this morning with you on my mind,
realizing how precious it is to be a part of humankind.
To have the opportunity to live on this great earth, to witness the
miracles of life’s awesome births.
Lord knowing I always have you by my side, I walk with grace and
stand with pride.
I’ll worship you Lord until my dieing day, knowing a new day Lord
will be coming my way.
Father God, I thank you for all the gifts you have given me,
my children, my talents, my prosperity.
Lord I may not be rich in materialistic wealth but I treasure your
love and spiritual health.
Father I’ll never forget what you have done, giving of your son
Jesus so the people of this earth can live on.
I’ll end this morning Lord by letting you know, your love is precious
and I love you so.
In the name of your son Jesus, Amen
(August 19/2007)
In the name of the Father,
Crusaders sallied forth
raping and murdering.
In the name of the Father,
the Vatican turned its back
on the holocaust.
In the name of the Father,
we assassinated Gandhi,
and Martin Luther King.
In the name of the Father,
the Irish killed one another,
and the British urged them on.
In the name of the Father,
paedophiles lurk behind
dog collars and cassocks.
In the name of the Father,
children are sold or enslaved.
In the name of the Father,
this a father I can do without.
If I could see nothing but the smoke
From the tip of his cigar, I would know everything
About the years before the war.
If his face were halved by shadow I would know
This was a street where an EATS sign trembled
And a Greek served coffee black as a dog's eye.
If I could see nothing but his wrist I would know
About the slot machine and I could reconstruct
The weak chin and ruin of his youth, the summer
My father was a gypsy with oiled hair sleeping
In a Murphy bed and practicing clairvoyance.
I could fill his vast Packard with showgirls
And keep him forever among the difficult buttons
Of the bodice, among the rustling of their names,
Miss Christina, Miss Lorraine.
I could put his money in my pocket
and wearing memory's black fedora
With the condoms hidden in the hatband
The damp cigar between my teeth,
I could become the young man who always got sentimental
About London especially in Las Vegas with its single bridge­-
So ridiculously tender--leaning across the river
To watch the starlight's soft explosions.
If I could trace the two veins that crossed
His temple, I would know what drove him
To this godforsaken place, I would keep him forever
Remote from war--like the come-hither tip of his lit cigar
Or the harvest moon, that gold planet, remote and pure
American.
'I know where I came from
and I know where I am going'
Because I am not alone
I walk with a God all knowing
He is the light of the world
and when I follow He lights my way
No longer in darkness I trod
I have the light of life through all my days
All you need to do is welcome Him in
He will conquer the unconquerable soul
Wait with an open heart my sisters and brothers
He is the one to make you whole
Because I know where I am going
'I stand with the Father'
During the war, I was in China.
Every night we blew the world to hell.
The sky was purple and yellow
like his favorite shirt.
I was in India once
on the Ganges in a tourist boat.
There were soldiers,
some women with parasols.
A dead body floated  by
going in the opposite direction.
My son likes this story
and requests it each year at Thanksgiving.
When he was twelve,
there was an accident.
He almost went blind.
For three weeks he lay in the hospital,
his eyes bandaged.
He did not like visitors,
but if they came
he'd silently hold their hand as they talked.
Small attentions
are all he requires.
Tell him you never saw anyone
so adept
at parallel parking.
Still, your life will not be easy.
Just look in the drawer where he keeps his socks.
Nothing matches.  And what's the turtle shell
doing there, or the map of the moon,
or the surgeon's plastic model of a take-apart heart?
You must understand --
he doesn't see the world clearly.
Once he screamed, "The woods are on fire!"
when it was only a blue cloud of insects
lifting from the trees.
But he's a good boy.
He likes to kiss
and be kissed.
I remember mornings
he would wake me, stroking my whiskers
and kissing my hand.
He'll tell you -- and it's true --
he prefers the green of your eyes
to all the green life
of heaven and earth.
Anonymous submission.
Ulcerated tooth keeps me awake, there is
such pain, would have to go to the hospital to have
it pulled or would bleed to death from the blood thinners,
but can't leave Mother, she falls and forgets her salve
and her tranquilizers, her ankles swell so and her bowels
are so bad, she almost had a stoppage and sometimes
what she passes is green as grass.There are big holes
in my thigh where my leg brace buckles the size of dimes.
My head pounds from the high pressure.It is awful
not to be able to get out, and I fell in the bathroom
and the girl could hardly get me up at all.
Sure thought my back was broken, it will be next time.
Prostate is bad and heart has given out,
feel bloated after supper. Have made my peace
because am just plain done for and have no doubt
that the Lord will come any day with my release.
You say you enjoy your feeder, I don't see why
you want to spend good money on grain for birds
and you say you have a hundred sparrows, I'd buy
poison and get rid of their diseases and turds.
He did not so much abandon me, as himself.
His rage blew out of places that had never known life.
So quickly he turned from 'Daddy' into Father,
the cold and distant, angry 'god the Father'—
One evening at the theater, he turned to me,
Muttering, 'You're a dreamer! ', spitting out contempt.
Yes, a dreamer—with no solid ground to stand on,
nothing to make a world from, but dreams.
The world comes out of Mother and extends to Father.
That's all the child knows of solid ground.
If it's
not
solid, he falls in an abyss.
From there, it's true, his only hope's in dreams;
and thus is born a madman or an artist.
Every old man I see
Reminds me of my father
When he had fallen in love with death
One time when sheaves were gathered.
That man I saw in Gardner Street
Stumbled on the kerb was one,
He stared at me half-eyed,
I might have been his son.
And I remember the musician
Faltering over his fiddle
In Bayswater, London,
He too set me the riddle.
Every old man I see
In October-coloured weather
Seems to say to me:
"I was once your father."
Mother Earth and Father Time are walking hand in hand.
They're visiting their children and checking on their land.
They view the worlds destruction everywhere they turn.
They fear their precious children are never going to learn.
''This earth should be their playground with joys beyond belief
yet, all these children seem to know is senseless pain and grief.''
''How do we teach our children to care for such a place?
They may not get the message till we slap them in their face.''
The children are oblivious to even basic rules.
That's why so many people grow up looking like such fools.
Rare can I find a father
Of great statue and character
Man of words and honor
Even possess good humor
Often a friend to many more.
Man of guts and practicality
A respected guy in the locality
Law abider
Often a good provider
Never he gets angry without reason
Especially if one has to learn a lesson
Surely he'll teach anyone just soon.
Being my father
I'm proud to be his daughter
Like a sheep that sheepherder feeds
Lavishing me with my own basic needs
On certain condition that he always point
Never will I do him wrong or disappoint
Exerting much efforts my father do not rest
Simply because he wants to give me the best.
(for ifa, p.t., & bisa)
my father is a retired magician
which accounts for my irregular behavior
everythin comes outta magic hats
or bottles wit no bottoms & parakeets
are as easy to get as a couple a rabbits
or 3 fifty cent pieces/ 1958
my daddy retired from magic & took
up another trade cuz this friend of mine
from the 3rd grade asked to be made white
on the spot
what cd any self-respectin colored american magician
do wit such a outlandish request/ cept
put all them razzamatazz hocus pocus zippity-do-dah
thingamajigs away	cuz
colored chirren believin in magic
waz becomin politically dangerous for the race
& waznt nobody gonna be made white
on the spot      just
from a clap of my daddy's hands
& the reason i'm so peculiar's
cuz i been studyin up on my daddy's technique
& everythin i do is magic these days
& it's very colored
very now you see it/ now you
dont mess wit me
i come from a family of retired
sorcerers/ active houngans & pennyante fortune tellers
wit 41 million spirits critturs & celestial bodies
on our side
i'll listen to yr problems
help wit yr career     yr lover     yr wanderin spouse
make yr grandma's stay in heaven more gratifyin
ease yr mother thru menopause & show yr son
how to clean his room
YES YES YES		     3 wishes is all you get
scarlet ribbons for yr hair
benwa balls via hong kong
a miniature of machu picchu
all things are possible
but aint no colored magician in her right mind
gonna make you     white
i mean
this is blk magic
you lookin at
& i'm fixin you up good/ fixin you up good n colored
& you gonna be colored all yr life
& you gonna love it/ bein colored/ all yr life/ colored & love it
love it/ bein colored/
Spell #7 from Upnorth-Outwest Geechee Jibara Quik Magic Trance Manual for Technologically Stressed Third World People
My father, my father,
I love he,
my father, my father,
made me see,
how beautiful this world really can be.
My father, my father,
said to me,
my daughter my daughter,
come see me,
I wont be around forever, and i have things that must be.
My father, my father,
dont die on me.
[I wrote this while my father was in the hospital, I'm sorry to say he never got to leave. R.I.P October 7,08.]
was a truly amazing man
he pretended to be
rich
even though we lived on beans and mush and weenies
when we sat down to eat, he said,
"not everybody can eat like this."
and because he wanted to be rich or because he actually
thought he was rich
he always voted Republican
and he voted for Hoover against Roosevelt
and he lost
and then he voted for Alf Landon against Roosevelt
and he lost again
saying, "I don't know what this world is coming to,
now we've got that god damned Red in there again
and the Russians will be in our backyard next!"
I think it was my father who made me decide to
become a bum.
I decided that if a man like that wants to be rich
then I want to be poor.
and I became a bum.
I lived on nickles and dimes and in cheap rooms and
on park benches.
I thought maybe the bums knew something.
but I found out that most of the bums wanted to be
rich too.
they had just failed at that.
so caught between my father and the bums
I had no place to go
and I went there fast and slow.
never voted Republican
never voted.
buried him
like an oddity of the earth
like a hundred thousand oddities
like millions of other oddities,
wasted.
He was
No I can't say 'he was'
He is
In my heart
He is
In the core of my heart
He is
In the heart of my love
Still
He is
My love
His gentleness
I can never forget
Valentine is at the door
And still
I can not love
Anyone more
His death
Was a birth for him
And for myself
A death
To happiness
Seven years have passed
And men are his shadow!
My Father was the greatest man I ever knew and loved He never judged me, never scorned me and never held a grudge If I grow old being half the man that taught me all I knew Then I would lie down in my grave amongst a privileged few
The memory of my father is wrapped up in
white paper, like sandwiches taken for a day at work.
Just as a magician takes towers and rabbits
out of his hat, he drew love from his small body,
and the rivers of his hands
overflowed with good deeds.
How he loved the sound
of sound itself, when he
was young enought to be
wild with love, when his
blood  boiled with desire
and crashed in great breaking
waves against his heart.
Now, the faceless dark god
of the pagan masses proclaims
'Noise is power! '
The sky seems crazy
with the din and holler
of monster trucks and boom boxes.
'This is a good day to become
like stone, ' Father tells himself.
In a world sick with noise,
to be deaf is to be blessed.
Nobody makes good sound anymore.
My father, with his arthritic hands
Closes his door, picks up the bow
Tucks the bit under his chin
Tunes it real low
My father can compete with the world's best bands
My father plays the violin.
His eyes are dim but the notes are clear
His hearing is faulty but we can hear
The songs that pour out from within
People outside stop to listen
When my father plays the violin.
He opens up another world
Farfrom stress and pain
I become a child again
As without a word
He picks up the bow, tunes it real low
My father plays the violin.
My father with his arthritic hands
Holds a magnifying glass to his eyes to read
He sits out there under the clear blue skies
Now that he can hardly walk
(Luckily my sisters are there when he needs to talk) .
And when its dusk and he enters within
Then with his arthritic hands
Father picks up his violin.
Copyright: Rani Turton
(an extract from the book of poems 'My Father With His Arthritic Hands and Other Poems' Paris,2018.
My mother was fortune, my father generosity and bounty; I
am joy, son of joy, son of joy, son of joy.
Behold, the Marquis of Glee has attainted felicity; this city and
plain are filled with soldiers and drums and flags.
If I encounter a wolf, he becomes moonfaced Joseph; if I go
down into a well, it converts into a Garden of Eram.
He whose heart is as iron and stone out of miserliness is now
changed before me into a Hatem of the age in generosity and
bounty.
Dust becomes gold and pure silver in my hand; how then
should the temptation of gold and silver waylay me?
I have an idol such that, were his sweet scent scattered
abroad, even an idol of stone would receive life through joy.
Sorrow has died for joy in him of “may God bind your consolation”;
how should not such a sword strike the neck of sorrow?
By tyranny he seizes the soul of whom he desires; justices are
all slaves of such injustice and tyranny.
What is that mole on that face? Should it manifest itself, out
of desire for it forthwith maternal aunt would be estranged from
paternal [uncle].
I said, “If I am done and send my story, will you finish it and
expound it?” He answered, “Yes.”
My brain has turned to ash, and yes,
My mouth is dust,
And love is grief, and death is
But the loss of trust;
While life is paupered, futures turn,
Feed on the past,
And dwell on words you might have…
If I’d only asked!
No point to dwell again, but yet
I must, I will;
Was there some hint, a glimpse perhaps
You’d long distilled,
Was I so blind, insensible
And dead to grief
That death could snatch you carelessly,
Some petty thief.
Perspectives shift, horizons narrow,
Drift my sand,
Your loss has marked my end, that shallow
Sleight of man,
What now remains of you, I am
Though poor in creed,
For what you were was love, and this
I’ve lost indeed.
1 August 1987
In the eyes: dream. The brow as if it could feel
something far off. Around the lips, a great
freshness--seductive, though there is no smile.
Under the rows of ornamental braid
on the slim Imperial officer's uniform:
the saber's basket-hilt. Both hands stay
folded upon it, going nowhere, calm
and now almost invisible, as if they
were the first to grasp the distance and dissolve.
And all the rest so curtained within itself,
so cloudy, that I cannot understand
this figure as it fades into the background--.
Oh quickly disappearing photograph
in my more slowly disappearing hand.
He was always there, my father,
constant as gravity.
And photogenic too,
with scrubbed square hands
and a pugnacious Roman profile.
He looked just like Henry XIII.
His surgery was his kingdom
and he ruled over his patients
with firm benevolence
and a twinkle in his pale blue eyes.
As children we didn't see much of him
- mum made sure of that -
but he was always there,
dependable as the Herald Sun.
He adored mum with fierce,
uncomplicated tenderness
and they fought long and hard
(mostly about me) .
He used to stamp his feet
(literally)  over trivial things,
yet when the final diagnosis came,
he took it in his stride.
Latterly he grew thin and grey
and lost his colonel's moustache,
but he always enjoyed his glass of red
and watched the Channel 2 news every night.
My last picture of him
was a pair of pretty feet
at the end of a hospital bed...
My heart leaps up when I behold
A rainbow in the sky;
Contrariwise, my blood runs cold
When little boys go by.
For little boys as little boys,
No special hate I carry,
But now and then they grow to men,
And when they do, they marry.
No matter how they tarry,
Eventually they marry.
And, swine among the pearls,
They marry little girls.
Oh, somewhere, somewhere, an infant plays,
With parents who feed and clothe him.
Their lips are sticky with pride and praise,
But I have begun to loathe him.
Yes, I loathe with loathing shameless
This child who to me is nameless.
This bachelor child in his carriage
Gives never a thought to marriage,
But a person can hardly say knife
Before he will hunt him a wife.
I never see an infant (male),
A-sleeping in the sun,
Without I turn a trifle pale
And think is he the one?
Oh, first he'll want to crop his curls,
And then he'll want a pony,
And then he'll think of pretty girls,
And holy matrimony.
A cat without a mouse
Is he without a spouse.
Oh, somewhere he bubbles bubbles of milk,
And quietly sucks his thumbs.
His cheeks are roses painted on silk,
And his teeth are tucked in his gums.
But alas the teeth will begin to grow,
And the bubbles will cease to bubble;
Given a score of years or so,
The roses will turn to stubble.
He'll sell a bond, or he'll write a book,
And his eyes will get that acquisitive look,
And raging and ravenous for the kill,
He'll boldly ask for the hand of Jill.
This infant whose middle
Is diapered still
Will want to marry My daughter Jill.
Oh sweet be his slumber and moist his middle!
My dreams, I fear, are infanticiddle.
A fig for embryo Lohengrins!
I'll open all his safety pins,
I'll pepper his powder, and salt his bottle,
And give him readings from Aristotle.
Sand for his spinach I'll gladly bring,
And Tabasco sauce for his teething ring.
Then perhaps he'll struggle though fire and water
To marry somebody else's daughter.
As a decrepit father takes delight
To see his active child do deeds of youth,
So I, made lame by Fortune's dearest spite,
Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
Or any of these all, or all, or more,
Entitled in thy parts, do crownèd sit,
I make my love engrafted to this store.
So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,
Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give
That I in thy abundance am sufficed
And by a part of all thy glory live.
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee.
This wish I have; then ten times happy me!
Another birthday, God has given you;
’Tis time you thought about your age and health;
God’s love and mercy in life has been true;
Your family and fortitude’s- your wealth.
’Tis time to pray extra: forget the world;
You did your part and duty indeed well;
Protect yourself from injury and cold;
Be wise: take rest and do not become ill.
Remember that you aren’t young anymore;
Your frame is frail and dangers lurk round you;
Your will-power isn’t as strong as before;
A long life-span comes only to a few.
‘Wish you a Happy Birthday, ’ dear Maama!
God be with you in your earthly drama!
From,
Mercy, Celestine, Cathy and Diana
Copyright by Dr John Celes 18-1-2006
To the Soul
That learned Father, who so firmly proves
The Soul of man immortal and divine,
And doth the several offices define:
Anima - Gives her that name, as she the Body moves;
Amor - Then is she Love, embracing charity;
Animus - Moving a Will in us, it is the Mind
Mens - Retaining knowledge, still the same in kind;
Memoria - As intellectual, it is Memory;
Ratio - In judging, Reason only is her name;
Sensus - In speedy apprehension, it is Sense;
Conscientia - In right or wrong, they call her Conscience;
Spiritus - The Spirit, when it to Godward doth inflame.
These of the Soul the several functions be,
Which my Heart, lighten'd by thy love, doth see.
To Mr Lawrence
Lawrence, of virtuous father virtuous son,
Now that the fields are dank, and ways are mire,
Where shall we sometimes meet, and by the fire
Help waste a sullen day, what may be won
From the hard season gaining? Time will run
On smoother, till Favonius re-inspire
The frozen earth, and clothe in fresh attire
The lily and rose, that neither sowed nor spun.
What neat repast shall feast us, light and choice,
Of Attic taste, with wine, whence we may rise
To hear the lute well touched, or artful voice
Warble immortal notes and Tuscan air?
He who of those delights can judge, and spare
To interpose them oft, is not unwise.
He never loved me,
though I know how hard he tried.
He was a good man,
sewn tight with pride.
On visits in his final years he cried
Standing at his graveside
able at last to say
I know
you knew
how much I loved you
anyway.
Death is not the final word.
Without ears, my father still listens,
still shrugs his shoulders
whenever I ask a question he doesn't want to answer.
I stand at the closet door, my hand on the knob,
my hip leaning against the frame and ask him
what does he think about the war in Iraq
and how does he feel about his oldest daughter
getting married to a man she met on the Internet.
Without eyes, my father still looks around.
He sees what I am trying to do, sees that I
have grown less passive with his passing,
understands my need for answers only he can provide.
I imagine him drawing a breath, sensing
his lungs once again filling with air, his thoughts ballooning.
Dad,
A great many thanks for all you have done
Without you my life would not have begun
You have been there when I most needed you
You have helped to guide me my whole life through
We have shared both the good times and the bad
But most of all, thank you for being my dad
I love you
© 2011
father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father father
fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers fathers
Thank You Father,
For giving me this life that I live.
Thank You Father,
For giving me the chances to forgive.
I believe in You...
I pray each day to prove that I do!
Thank You Father,
The Keeper and Ruler of Love.
Thank You Father,
You're ALL things on Earth...and Above.
You opened up my eyes,
Your power can not be denied.
I dream of a life that is full
And giving!
To dream of a world
Where all people live in peace.
In true harmony released!
Thank You Father,
My soul will flow eternally.
Thank You Father,
The breath that I breathe
Just could not be.
In everything I do...
I ask of you
To help me see things through.
I know You are there with me every hour.
And each day...
It is clear that You're everywhere!
With You...
Why should I despair?
Thank You Father,
For giving me this life that I live.
Thank You Father,
For giving me the chances to forgive.
In everything I do...
My purpose here,
Is pleasing only You!
Thank You Father.
Thank You Father!
Thank You...
Father!
Fathers hold you when you have bad dreams
And they comfort you when all is lost it seems.
Fathers teach you to dribble a basketball and shoot a free throw
And they lead you as you grow.
Fathers teach you how to drive a car
And they try to teach you how to putt for par.
Fathers wipe the tears of your broken heart
And they hold your hand when you don't know how to start.
Fathers quiz the boys who take you on a date
And they scold those boys who bring you home late.
Fathers carry you on their shoulders when you're too small to see
And they watch as you giggle when they bounce you on their knee.
Fathers extend their feet to you when they teach you how to dance
And they always give you a second chance.
Fathers wait in the wings while you start your own life
And they pray for a husband to make you a wife.
Fathers walk you down the aisle on your wedding day
But fathers never really give their little girls away.
The old priest Peter Gilligan
Was weary night and day
For half his flock were in their beds
Or under green sods lay.
Once, while he nodded in a chair
At the moth-hour of the eve
Another poor man sent for him,
And he began to grieve.
'I have no rest, nor joy, nor peace,
For people die and die;
And after cried he, 'God forgive!
My body spake not I!'
He knelt, and leaning on the chair
He prayed and fell asleep;
And the moth-hour went from the fields,
And stars began to peep.
They slowly into millions grew,
And leaves shook in the wind
And God covered the world with shade
And whispered to mankind.
Upon the time of sparrow chirp
When the moths came once more,
The old priest Peter Gilligan
Stood upright on the floor.
'Mavrone, mavrone! The man has died
While I slept in the chair.'
He roused his horse out of its sleep
And rode with little care.
He rode now as he never rode,
By rocky lane and fen;
The sick man's wife opened the door,
'Father! you come again!'
'And is the poor man dead?' he cried
'He died an hour ago.'
The old priest Peter Gilligan
In grief swayed to and fro.
'When you were gone, he turned and died,
As merry as a bird.'
The old priest Peter Gilligan
He knelt him at that word.
'He Who hath made the night of stars
For souls who tire and bleed,
Sent one of this great angels down,
To help me in my need.
'He Who is wrapped in purple robes,
With planets in His care
Had pity on the least of things
Asleep upon a chair.'
GOOD Father John O'Hart
In penal days rode out
To a Shoneen who had free lands
And his own snipe and trout.
In trust took he John's lands;
Sleiveens were all his race;
And he gave them as dowers to his daughters.
And they married beyond their place.
But Father John went up,
And Father John went down;
And he wore small holes in his Shoes,
And he wore large holes in his gown.
All loved him, only the shoneen,
Whom the devils have by the hair,
From the wives, and the cats, and the children,
To the birds in the white of the air.
The birds, for he opened their cages
As he went up and down;
And he said with a smile, 'Have peace now';
And he went his way with a frown.
But if when anyone died
Came keeners hoarser than rooks,
He bade them give over their keening;
For he was a man of books.
And these were the works of John,
When, weeping score by score,
People came into Colooney;
For he'd died at ninety-four.
There was no human keening;
The birds from Knocknarea
And the world round Knocknashee
Came keening in that day.
The young birds and old birds
Came flying, heavy and sad;
Keening in from Tiraragh,
Keening from Ballinafad;
Keening from Inishmurray.
Nor stayed for bite or sup;
This way were all reproved
Who dig old customs up.
'Up, Timothy, up with your staff and away!
Not a soul in the village this morning will stay;
The hare has just started from Hamilton's grounds,
And Skiddaw is glad with the cry of the hounds.'
--Of coats and of jackets grey, scarlet, and green,
On the slopes of the pastures all colours were seen;
With their comely blue aprons, and caps white as snow,
The girls on the hills made a holiday show.
Fresh sprigs of green box-wood, not six months before,
Filled the funeral basin at Timothy's door;
A coffin through Timothy's threshold had past;
One Child did it bear, and that Child was his last.
Now fast up the dell came the noise and the fray,
The horse and the horn, and the hark! hark away!
Old Timothy took up his staff, and he shut
With a leisurely motion the door of his hut.
Perhaps to himself at that moment he said;
'The key I must take, for my Ellen is dead.'
But of this in my ears not a word did he speak;
And he went to the chase with a tear on his cheek.
He came at night to each of us asleep
And trained us in the virtues we most lacked.
Me he admonished to return his stare
Correctly, without fear.Unless I could,
Unblinking, more and more incline
Toward a deep unblinkingness of his,
He would not let me rest.Outside
In the dark of the world, at the foot
Of the library steps, there lurked
A Mercury of rust, its cab half-lit.
(Two worldly forms who huddled there
Knew what they meant.I had no business
With the things they knew.Nor did I feel myself
Drawn back through Circulation into Reference,
Until I saw how blue I had become, by virtue
Of its five TVs, their monitors abuzz with is's
Etymologies...)
A man had just delivered a toad from his wife's armpit. He
held it by its legs and spanked it.
Do you love it? said his wife.
It's our child, isn't it?
Does that mean you can't love it? she said.
It's hard enough to love a toad, but when it turns out to be
your own son then revulsion is without any tender inhibition,
he said.
Do you mean you would not like to call it George Jr.?
she said.
But we've already called the other toad that, he said.
Well, perhaps we could call the other one George Sr.,
she said.
But I am George Sr., he said.
Well, perhaps if you hid in the attic, so that no one needed
to call you anything, there would be no difficulty in calling
both of them George, she said.
Yes, if no one talks to me, then what need have I for a name?
he said.
No, no one will talk to you for the rest of your life. And
when we bury you we shall put Father of Toads on your
tombstone.
This man
who is not
my father
is
my
father.
The other’s laugh:
“It’s not your turn but
he calls only for you! ”
And so I go
& clean him up
his skeleton thin body
splashed with urine & sh**.
I laugh & joke
with him.
He chuckles
as I tell him:
“Michael...you used to be
so full of crap
but sh**...now you’re not! ”
Lucky
our Irish sense of humour
extends this far
say anything with love and
it becomes so.
It is a tired old joke
but like a child he
pounces on its nuances
relishing each pause and stupid syllable!
I bathe
him
this man
who is not my father
gently as if he were
my child.
I sing
to him
all the old songs
I learned
at my father’s hands
as he bathed me.
“...why does my poor heart keep following you...”
We sing together
softly as I bathe him
dress him
anew
in the memory
of my father.
This man
who is not
my father
becomes
my father
as my hands learn
to care for him.
I settle
a pillow
behind
his head
wipe sweat
from his forehead
stroke
his hair
until  his sleep
is full
of dreams
...dreams.
*******
545
'Tis One by One — the Father counts —
And then a Tract between
Set Cypherless — to teach the Eye
The Value of its Ten —
Until the peevish Student
Acquire the Quick of Skill —
Then Numerals are dowered back —
Adorning all the Rule —
'Tis mostly Slate and Pencil —
And Darkness on the School
Distracts the Children's fingers —
Still the Eternal Rule
Regards least Cypherer alike
With Leader of the Band —
And every separate Urchin's Sum —
Is fashioned for his hand —
To the little, pitiful God I make my prayer,
The God with the long grey beard
And flowing robe fastened with a hempen girdle
Who sits nodding and muttering on the all-too-big throne
of Heaven.
What a long, long time, dear God, since you set the
stars in their places,
Girded the earth with the sea, and invented the day and
night.
And longer the time since you looked through the blue
window of Heaven
To see your children at play in a garden....
Now we are all stronger than you and wiser and more
arrogant,
In swift procession we pass you by.
"Who is that marionette nodding and muttering
On the all-too-big throne of Heaven?
Come down from your place, Grey Beard,
We have had enough of your play-acting!"
It is centuries since I believed in you,
But to-day my need of you has come back.
I want no rose-coloured future,
No books of learning, no protestations and denials--
I am sick of this ugly scramble,
I am tired of being pulled about--
O God, I want to sit on your knees
On the all-too-big throne of Heaven,
And fall asleep with my hands tangled in your grey
beard.
Most truly honoured, and as truly dear,
If worth in me or ought I do appear,
Who can of right better demand the same
Than may your worthy self from whom it came?
The principal might yield a greater sum,
Yet handled ill, amounts but to this crumb;
My stock's so small I know not how to pay,
My bond remains in force unto this day;
Yet for part payment take this simple mite,
Where nothing's to be had, kings loose their right.
Such is my debt I may not say forgive,
But as I can, I'll pay it while I live;
Such is my bond, none can discharge but I,
Yet paying is not paid until I die.
Visiting her cottage I remember ripe ears of corn,
drawers full of bent knives, mouldy crusts of pumpernickel bread,
high shelves of hoary berry jams, curtains threadbare and torn,
and an axe brighter than the cracks in the wall near a bed
bereft of her broken body for three months and one week.
Through a veranda window I recall a thistled yard,
and still hear portents issuing from a fat raven's beak.
A bucket of stagnant water mirrors the cloudy lard
she must have fried eggs and coffee grinds in every morning.
And by a potato patch I see a wild war-like pig,
with its head full of demons, palavering and snorting.
And I shout something and ineptly cast a birch's twig
while my father speaks to an old peasant in a strange tongue
about pagan deities carved on trees when he was young.
With my father
I would watch dawn
over green fields.
Translated by Robert Hass
"You are old, father William," the young man said,
"And your hair has become very white;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head --
Do you think, at your age, it is right?
"In my youth," father William replied to his son,
"I feared it might injure the brain;
But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
Why, I do it again and again."
"You are old," said the youth, "as I mentioned before,
And you have grown most uncommonly fat;
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door --
Pray what is the reason for that?"
"In my youth," said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
"I kept all my limbs very supple
By the use of this ointment -- one shilling a box --
Allow me to sell you a couple?"
"You are old," said the youth, "and your jaws are too weak
For anything tougher than suet;
Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak --
Pray, how did you mange to do it?"
"In my youth," said his fater, "I took to the law,
And argued each case with my wife;
And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
Has lasted the rest of my life."
"You are old," said the youth, "one would hardly suppose
That your eye was as steady as every;
Yet you balanced an eel on the tend of your nose --
What made you so awfully clever?"
"I have answered three questions, and that is enough,"
Said his father. "Don't give yourself airs!
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs.
'Father?
Yes...LAWRENCE!
'Did I catch You at a bad time? '
No, My Son...What is it? ...Now?
'Maybe I should come back?
You don't sound right! '
Is this about your poems?
'YEAH! Wow...how did You know that? '
Because I Am ALL THAT!
Now get on with it!
'You don't have to get all...
All...'
All WHAT? And you better be careful!
'Well, I made a decision...
I'm not sure it was the right one! '
You mean eliminating your poems from PoemHunter?
Those wonderful poems I gave to you to write?
Some of the most beautiful words I shared with you?
Some of the most incredible insights...
We, you and I 'painfully' stayed up all day and many nights,
Putting together?
Many of them bringing tears to My own eyes! ?
'UH...are You upset with me, Father? '
Does a donkey spread mustard on a banana sandwich?
DOES IT! ?
'HUH? '
Let's discuss this at another time!
Right now I Am in no mood to play hide n' seek!
Is that clear? ANSWER ME, BOY!
'Yes Father!
I'll catch You at another time! '
YEAH! Whatever...
('Does a donkey spread mustard on a banana sandwich?
That makes absolutely no sense! Oh, that boy...one day,
One day...')
The wind was strong and the dust blew viciously.
Walking on a dirt road, not sure of my destination.
I encountered a coyote standing in the distance. My
first thought was to turn and run and then I
realized that might not be a good idea.  I slowly
walked, placing one foot quietly in front of the
other, while keeping my eye on the coyote.  The
animal did not move, it stood in the same position.
Fearful as I was, I didn’t want the animal to know
my fear.  I bravely took step after step and walked
toward the road.  Finally I reached a crossing in
the road.  When I turned to look back the coyote
was gone.  At that point, I felt sure I was safe and
continued to walk down the road.  When I
approached an old shack at the road clearing, I
noticed paw prints on the soft ground.  Immediately
I thought, what animal made those prints, surely
it wasn’t the coyote that I encountered earlier,
certainly not, don’t be silly I thought to myself.
Once again I continued to walk forward.  I could
feel butterflies in my stomach.  What were those
prints on the ground.  Trying not to think about it,
I began to walk faster and faster.  Suddenly I
heard a noise, it sounded like a scratching noise
behind me.  Oh what now, could that be the
coyote.  My heart was racing and the sweat
poured down my face causing my eyes to sting.
My vision blurred by my perspiration, I was beside
myself and was feeling very  sick to my stomach.
Never before, have I been so afraid, never so unsure
of myself.  I wanted to run, but once again
wondered if the animal that was following me
might run and attack me.
Powerful, that’s right,
I’m a terror, as you will see, no one can beat me.
Why I’ll tear you apart from top to bottom.
I won’t give a damn, winter, spring, summer or autumn.
If you cross me, I’ll mow you down
like a huge caterpillar machine right to the ground.
I’m bigger than life, full of horror and strife.
I’ll take all you’ve got, even your life.
Friends-no, not your mother
your father,  nor your sister or brother.
Strong, powerful, big and fearless.
Your worst enemy, listen and hear this,
be alert, drug free, your mind must be clear
or you’ll be dealing with me out there.
I don’t care about your friends or your loving family.
I’ve been known to bring death to those who mock me.
So pick up your socks and take heed, or those
you love will fall in need.
I’m here, there and everywhere.
Don’t worry, prejudice you will not find.
I want all, young, old, rich, poor.
You can all come screaming through my door.
I’ve killed more people than you can imagine.
so c’mon working class, learn your trade,
be the best that you can be, and take top grades.
For those who excel, will certainly exceed.
Never become victim to my selfish greed.
They call me
“CARELESSNESS”
This is dedicated to my son 'John' and all men and women
who drive big machinery or big rigs.
Written:  Feb.16/2007
No.
basking in human godship
due to your doubt,
never can I be esnared.
for what good is an ice cube
to the magnitude of the sun?
have you consummated
self assuredly
such pride in aloofness?
facetiously with kin
brooding on,
in a bed of fear.
a manifestation
that cannot be
good news to hear.
drugged with wanting
the scare of freedom,
not wanting
the sacred touch of oblivion.
87
A darting fear—a pomp—a tear—
A waking on a morn
To find that what one waked for,
Inhales the different dawn.
Adolescent fear never speaks in its own language
Always translated into the impure tongue
Of cocky
Mock confidence
Mutating into
Terrifying others
But not me
Each morning resolute to spread a little knowledge
Inspire a little, fighting another tide
Which is pulling them
Each morning they arrive resolute to fit in
Look cool
Be popular
Stay safe
A handy tool
Is mock the teacher
Show no interest
In the offerings
Of knowledge
And inspiration
Let battle of two tides commence
I didn't know what to do,
I was trapped,
A prisoner,
A slave,
I had nowhere to run,
Nowhere to hide,
Nowhere to go,
And nowhere to cry,
I'm all alone in this world
I have no shoulder to cry on,
No person to love,
Nothing to look forward to,
Yet I go on,
I live my life
In fear of everything,
I fear I will never find love,
I will never feel the warmness inside,
That I long to feel,
The warm touch of someone close,
That I wish to feel,
I will never find,
That I will always love,
The soul mate,
I'm always thinking of.
What is there left in this world for me?
Nothing or is it just worth waiting,
Just to see,
What might happen?
And will I ever become free.
Child of mine
Please never be afraid to fear
Fear the next book if you will
The next page or the last word
As terrifying as they may seem
But please never be afraid to fear
For it is the fear you free yourself to feel
That will serve you well
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
My class is all here
Down to each little sneer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Those cute little creatures
Have nothing to fear
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Still knowing that teacher's
not entirely all here
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Each little tear
Makes it perfectly clear
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
A day off is coming
And hopefully near
a sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
It's harder and harder
Maintaining my leer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Perhaps my behavior's
becoming quite queer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Perhaps in the morning
I'll call in and cheer
A SICK DAY A SICK DAY
I GOT A PAIN IN MY EAR
Alas...I can hear my principle sneer
With a resigning smirk easy to hear
NO SICK DAY NO SICK DAY
SORRY MY DEAR
NO SICK DAYS NO SICK DAYS
REMAINING THIS YEAR
(copyright 1993-2019)
I live all alone.
Upon my own.
Along will come my fears.
My memories.
My nightmares.
It will all huant me again.
All alone in my world.
A world not quite real.
A world not humane
A world of fear.
Through my fears.
I go alone.
Cqant share them
with no one.
Keep it all to myself
Children in the playground
Children in the park
Never leave a child alone
To wander in the dark
The world is full of demons
Some real some make believe
That wear the cloak of decency
Like a weapon to deceive
Predators that stalk the land
Their hearts and souls defiled
To destroy the face of innocence
Of one that is a child.
A mother worries about the choices that her son may make.
She knows she has let him make decisions for his own sake.
As sirens scream, a mother sits in darkness choking back tears.
She prays that her boy is safe and calms her doubting fears.
At half past two, beams from headlights flood the driveway.
Relieved that he is home, she tiptoes to her bedroom right away.
She hears an urgent knocking and goes to turn on the porch light.
Patiently waiting at the door is a police officer; he is a somber sight.
There's primal fear like a fetus blinded by daylight
There's lingering fear like a zit growing on your nose
There's groundless fear like a dark day covered by a clear night
There's inarticulate fear like a little fish wolfed down by a shark
There's sudden fear like a demon startled by an unfamiliar ghost
There's mortal fear like a soul baffled by heavenly hell
There's fake fear like a popstar blowing his/her lines
There's undying fear like boomerang returning to hit you hard
There's cryptic fear like a stranger ringing at your doorbell
There's fatal fear like falling prey to a predator
There's introverted fear we've invented by ourselves
And have to live with it.
The musty smell
hangs
weightless in the air.
Suspended like an
invisible
cloth curtain.
Marking the
boundary
of the cave.
Striking the senses
like a
sledgehammer.
It mists up the
eyes
like fog.
And sets the skin
Crawling
From the body.
Beyond the smell
is
the dark.
Endlessly covering
the limits
of reality and possibility.
The fear of the
unknown
against the safety of the mundanity.
Walking forwards, the
darkness
retreats into the earth.
Folding in on itself
until
rushing forward to encompass.
It breathes into
into
its invisible depths.
Deeper, deeper. the
shadows
are calling out.
Sounds are amplified
to a
fearful crescendo.
Anticipation hangs
ripe
for harvest.
Something waits,
feeding
on the taste of fear.
Something not right
Something different
Something greater
Something that is not meant to be
Something wrong
Something not human
Not human.
Instinct takes over
Undiluted fear floods through the veins
Pumping through the body,
Ripping apart all reason,
Animal fear takes hold
The last vestiges of civilization fall.
And all other emotions are thrown away into the maelstrom of dread awe.
Giving way to the terror of the hunted.
Blindness
Darkness
Fear
P ure Fear
Drunk and wanting to be higher
Another drink, can’t find my smokes
Always wanting more from fire,
To much rebellion from my folk’s.
It’s hard to drink and not to care,
It’s hard to climb the loving stairs.
It’s hard to feel my love break through
Just never felt it much from you.
It’s a hardened life
In cold and pain,
It’s a lonely faith,
I feel the same.
Don’t ask me why I have to write,
So many told me “Girl, just fight”
With the inspiration flooding through,
Spilling and drowning in it’s flight.
So leave me be,
You’re not my foe,
You’re another fear,
That I don’t know.
When life becomes a trembling world of fear,
you question every single move you make,
afraid your loving soul will disappear;
for danger looms, awaiting your mistake.
What hidden word will cause explosion's might
to back you in a corner of despair?
Your sole reprieve lies in the ebon night,
yet anger boils from pain he wouldn't spare.
Where love once dwelled resides a burning hate
as desperation's hand has gained control.
No longer viewed as your eternal mate;
to save yourself becomes the utmost goal.
Envisioning a pool of crimson red;
a knife within your hand; your fear is shed.
Too oft in time
it seems a crime
to open up one's heart.
Comes into play
that which  we fear,
from which we run away:
the fear that love will soon depart
& all abandon'd shall we be:
alone forevermore, drowning in a sea
of pain, remorse & self-pity.
So heed me well! Listen here.
Love comes not with a guarantee.
My friend, 'tis gamble all or none!
But if your fears do keep you safe,
you'll miss out on all the joy & fun
that risk & love alone can bring.
So take a chance!
Don't be a waif.
Let your heart dance
& spirit sing.
Love now, love more today!
(Copyright 11/27/2005)
Is blind fear blind?
Yes, it is
Is blind fear fear?
Yes, it is
Can blind fear see?
No, it can't
Can blind fear destroy?
Yes, it can
(Sydney, Australia - 2005)
Therefore death to us
Is nothing, nor concerns us in the least,
Since nature of mind is mortal evermore.
And just as in the ages gone before
We felt no touch of ill, when all sides round
To battle came the Carthaginian host,
And the times, shaken by tumultuous war,
Under the aery coasts of arching heaven
Shuddered and trembled, and all humankind
Doubted to which the empery should fall
By land and sea, thus when we are no more,
When comes that sundering of our body and soul
Through which we're fashioned to a single state,
Verily naught to us, us then no more,
Can come to pass, naught move our senses then-
No, not if earth confounded were with sea,
And sea with heaven. But if indeed do feel
The nature of mind and energy of soul,
After their severance from this body of ours,
Yet nothing 'tis to us who in the bonds
And wedlock of the soul and body live,
Through which we're fashioned to a single state.
And, even if time collected after death
The matter of our frames and set it all
Again in place as now, and if again
To us the light of life were given, O yet
That process too would not concern us aught,
When once the self-succession of our sense
Has been asunder broken. And now and here,
Little enough we're busied with the selves
We were aforetime, nor, concerning them,
Suffer a sore distress. For shouldst thou gaze
Backwards across all yesterdays of time
The immeasurable, thinking how manifold
The motions of matter are, then couldst thou well
Credit this too: often these very seeds
(From which we are to-day) of old were set
In the same order as they are to-day-
Yet this we can't to consciousness recall
Through the remembering mind. For there hath been
An interposed pause of life, and wide
Have all the motions wandered everywhere
From these our senses. For if woe and ail
Perchance are toward, then the man to whom
The bane can happen must himself be there
At that same time. But death precludeth this,
Forbidding life to him on whom might crowd
Such irk and care; and granted 'tis to know:
Nothing for us there is to dread in death,
No wretchedness for him who is no more,
The same estate as if ne'er born before,
When death immortal hath ta'en the mortal life.
Hence, where thou seest a man to grieve because
When dead he rots with body laid away,
Or perishes in flames or jaws of beasts,
Know well: he rings not true, and that beneath
Still works an unseen sting upon his heart,
However he deny that he believes.
His shall be aught of feeling after death.
For he, I fancy, grants not what he says,
Nor what that presupposes, and he fails
To pluck himself with all his roots from life
And cast that self away, quite unawares
Feigning that some remainder's left behind.
For when in life one pictures to oneself
His body dead by beasts and vultures torn,
He pities his state, dividing not himself
Therefrom, removing not the self enough
From the body flung away, imagining
Himself that body, and projecting there
His own sense, as he stands beside it: hence
He grieves that he is mortal born, nor marks
That in true death there is no second self
Alive and able to sorrow for self destroyed,
Or stand lamenting that the self lies there
Mangled or burning. For if it an evil is
Dead to be jerked about by jaw and fang
Of the wild brutes, I see not why 'twere not
Bitter to lie on fires and roast in flames,
Or suffocate in honey, and, reclined
On the smooth oblong of an icy slab,
Grow stiff in cold, or sink with load of earth
Down-crushing from above.
"Thee now no more
The joyful house and best of wives shall welcome,
Nor little sons run up to snatch their kisses
And touch with silent happiness thy heart.
Thou shalt not speed in undertakings more,
Nor be the warder of thine own no more.
Poor wretch," they say, "one hostile hour hath ta'en
Wretchedly from thee all life's many guerdons,"
But add not, "yet no longer unto thee
Remains a remnant of desire for them"
If this they only well perceived with mind
And followed up with maxims, they would free
Their state of man from anguish and from fear.
"O even as here thou art, aslumber in death,
So shalt thou slumber down the rest of time,
Released from every harrying pang. But we,
We have bewept thee with insatiate woe,
Standing beside whilst on the awful pyre
Thou wert made ashes; and no day shall take
For us the eternal sorrow from the breast."
But ask the mourner what's the bitterness
That man should waste in an eternal grief,
If, after all, the thing's but sleep and rest?
For when the soul and frame together are sunk
In slumber, no one then demands his self
Or being. Well, this sleep may be forever,
Without desire of any selfhood more,
For all it matters unto us asleep.
Yet not at all do those primordial germs
Roam round our members, at that time, afar
From their own motions that produce our senses-
Since, when he's startled from his sleep, a man
Collects his senses. Death is, then, to us
Much less- if there can be a less than that
Which is itself a nothing: for there comes
Hard upon death a scattering more great
Of the throng of matter, and no man wakes up
On whom once falls the icy pause of life.
This too, O often from the soul men say,
Along their couches holding of the cups,
With faces shaded by fresh wreaths awry:
"Brief is this fruit of joy to paltry man,
Soon, soon departed, and thereafter, no,
It may not be recalled."- As if, forsooth,
It were their prime of evils in great death
To parch, poor tongues, with thirst and arid drought,
Or chafe for any lack.
Once more, if Nature
Should of a sudden send a voice abroad,
And her own self inveigh against us so:
"Mortal, what hast thou of such grave concern
That thou indulgest in too sickly plaints?
Why this bemoaning and beweeping death?
For if thy life aforetime and behind
To thee was grateful, and not all thy good
Was heaped as in sieve to flow away
And perish unavailingly, why not,
Even like a banqueter, depart the halls,
Laden with life? why not with mind content
Take now, thou fool, thy unafflicted rest?
But if whatever thou enjoyed hath been
Lavished and lost, and life is now offence,
Why seekest more to add- which in its turn
Will perish foully and fall out in vain?
O why not rather make an end of life,
Of labour? For all I may devise or find
To pleasure thee is nothing: all things are
The same forever. Though not yet thy body
Wrinkles with years, nor yet the frame exhausts
Outworn, still things abide the same, even if
Thou goest on to conquer all of time
With length of days, yea, if thou never diest"-
What were our answer, but that Nature here
Urges just suit and in her words lays down
True cause of action? Yet should one complain,
Riper in years and elder, and lament,
Poor devil, his death more sorely than is fit,
Then would she not, with greater right, on him
Cry out, inveighing with a voice more shrill:
"Off with thy tears, and choke thy whines, buffoon!
Thou wrinklest- after thou hast had the sum
Of the guerdons of life; yet, since thou cravest ever
What's not at hand, contemning present good,
That life has slipped away, unperfected
And unavailing unto thee. And now,
Or ere thou guessed it, death beside thy head
Stands- and before thou canst be going home
Sated and laden with the goodly feast.
But now yield all that's alien to thine age,-
Up, with good grace! make room for sons: thou must."
Justly, I fancy, would she reason thus,
Justly inveigh and gird: since ever the old
Outcrowded by the new gives way, and ever
The one thing from the others is repaired.
Nor no man is consigned to the abyss
Of Tartarus, the black. For stuff must be,
That thus the after-generations grow,-
Though these, their life completed, follow thee;
And thus like thee are generations all-
Already fallen, or some time to fall.
So one thing from another rises ever;
And in fee-simple life is given to none,
But unto all mere usufruct.
Look back:
Nothing to us was all fore-passed eld
Of time the eternal, ere we had a birth.
And Nature holds this like a mirror up
Of time-to-be when we are dead and gone.
And what is there so horrible appears?
Now what is there so sad about it all?
Is't not serener far than any sleep?
And, verily, those tortures said to be
In Acheron, the deep, they all are ours
Here in this life. No Tantalus, benumbed
With baseless terror, as the fables tell,
Fears the huge boulder hanging in the air:
But, rather, in life an empty dread of gods
Urges mortality, and each one fears
Such fall of fortune as may chance to him.
Nor eat the vultures into Tityus
Prostrate in Acheron, nor can they find,
Forsooth, throughout eternal ages, aught
To pry around for in that mighty breast.
However hugely he extend his bulk-
Who hath for outspread limbs not acres nine,
But the whole earth- he shall not able be
To bear eternal pain nor furnish food
From his own frame forever. But for us
A Tityus is he whom vultures rend
Prostrate in love, whom anxious anguish eats,
Whom troubles of any unappeased desires
Asunder rip. We have before our eyes
Here in this life also a Sisyphus
In him who seeketh of the populace
The rods, the axes fell, and evermore
Retires a beaten and a gloomy man.
For to seek after power- an empty name,
Nor given at all- and ever in the search
To endure a world of toil, O this it is
To shove with shoulder up the hill a stone
Which yet comes rolling back from off the top,
And headlong makes for levels of the plain.
Then to be always feeding an ingrate mind,
Filling with good things, satisfying never-
As do the seasons of the year for us,
When they return and bring their progenies
And varied charms, and we are never filled
With the fruits of life- O this, I fancy, 'tis
To pour, like those young virgins in the tale,
Waters into a sieve, unfilled forever.
When I exited the train station
at Sheepshead Bay
in Brooklyn
I spotted
my favorite crazy person
talking to himself
so I shifted closer
to hear what he said.
“I wanna see
what’s on both sides
of the street, ” he said
in his nasal twang
then marched
like a soldier
forging ahead
in battle
across the street
looked around
and returned
only to repeat, “I wanna see
what’s on both sides
of the street.”
so again
the triumphant
stride across asphalt
to concrete
then
the intense search
at last
returning to his starting point
eight times repeated
when I cried out
“BRAVO”
yearning
for his peace
in craziness
where I had tried
often to dwell
but could not
hugging
a bit of sanity
fearful
of what
letting go
might bring.
Don't fear death in earthly travels.
Don't fear enemies or friends.
Just listen to the words of prayers,
To pass the facets of the dreads.
Your death will come to you, and never
You shall be, else, a slave of life,
Just waiting for a dawn's favor,
From nights of poverty and strife.
She'll build with you a common law,
One will of the Eternal Reign.
And you are not condemned to slow
And everlasting deadly pain.
I doubt you will read this
I don’t believe this is of any use
I can’t concede this is a worthy verse
I don’t think I could do any worse
I never will be right
When I just can’t see any light
When I am so unclear
When I am far from your love
When I am gripped by fear
I never will be true
If I do not have faith in You.
A pack of wolves stood by quietly watching.
Beginning to act frustrated and anxious.
Calling with howls of anger, piercing eyes glow.
Finally leaping towards a fearful hunter.
Fear and fear,
Where is life in fear?
Overcome fear, my dear,
Remember, where there is
Love, there is no fear.
And hence love and love
And live a life
That is the source of nectar.
That night I heard your voice
it woke me,
bolted through my body
like electricity does wet feet.
It was shocking,
I found myself
shivering in a cold sweat-
Unable to move to your side
for refuge,
my tongue went lifeless,
my lips sealed as if to kiss-
I swear I tried to save you.
The clock blurred in motion-
The night, hugged my insides so tightly
I fought to breathe.
I sought to rationalize the moment,
to make sense of the flies
motionless in the air-
why my hands were so invisible.
I rushed to your bedside
to find you
old and diseased-
I caressed your hand,
accepting the truth:
eventually, no matter how unfair
someday all mothers die-
even when there are torn hemlines
and broken children
in need of mending.
Rainy days and stormy nights
a train running through my mind
tree's fall knocking out the lights
and I somehow, lose all track of time
I sat there in that corner all alone
wondering what will happen next
praying that he didn't come home
I was wrong, now I'm in a hell of a fix
I heard her tell him, I got beat up bad
he had to come and look for himself
when he saw me crying he did get mad
after that beating, all I thought of was death
I was always wrong because he had his own rule
and no matter what I did, it just wasn't enough
I even had thoughts of camping out at school
because living at home was getting to be rough
I use to cry a lot, but I got broke in with pain
it's hard to do at time, and I can't understand
holding the tears all the years who can explain
he walked around, proudly calling himself a man
He just didn't know what I had been thinking
pay him back for all the pain that he gave me
wait till he passed out from all the drinking
could burn the house down and I would be free
It's sad to think of all the pain a child gets
so hard to deal with and seems no one cares
they go through this life with so many regrets
from living in shame and hiding from fear
when will it ever stop?
Fear haunts the eyes, of the terrified young
Slaughter replacing, days once filled with fun
Streets full of laughter, now places of dread
Market squares littered, with the dying and dead
Tiny hands clenching, coats tattered and torn
Relying on mothers, to keep them from harm
Cordite and dust, still thick in the air
Stinging their eyes, now filled with despair
Truely an age of innocence passed
Drawing on breath, which may be their last
Brought into a world, full of violence and hate
What kind of impression, do we hope to create
The youth of today has ourfuture on hold
Bitter and twisted, we created the mould
No love or affection, just the will to deprive
How can we as a race, ever hope to survive.
Everyone has a fear
They don’t even know where it comes from
Fear is everywhere you don’t have to look
There are fears that scare little kids
Like the dark or the monster in the closet
But without fear the world would fall into darkness
There are some people that fear other people
And some that fear water
But a lot of people fear the end of the world
There are people that do not have any fear
They are the people that are different
Even if they hide their fears from humanity
I am someone that is different
But I will tell you my fear
And that is
The fear of my friends dying first
I could not live with out my friends
A man once told me that fear is away to run
Show no fear even in the eyes of the end
Fear is everywhere you look
I told you my fear
I think that you have a fear too
But if you dare to tell
That is your choose
I do not control you
I have said that fear is everywhere you look
What is your worst fear? ? ?
I will not judge you if you tell! ! !
1
Many animals that our fathers killed in America
Had quick eyes.
They stared about wildly,
When the moon went dark.
The new moon falls into the freight yards
Of cities in the south,
But the loss of the moon to the dark hands of Chicago
Does not matter to the deer
In this northern field.
2
What is that tall woman doing
There, in the trees?
I can hear rabbits and mourning dovees whispering together
In the dark grass, there
Under the trees.
3
I look about wildly.
Fear no more the heat o' the sun;
Nor the furious winter's rages,
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages;
Golden lads and girls all must,
As chimney sweepers come to dust.
Fear no more the frown of the great,
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke:
Care no more to clothe and eat;
To thee the reed is as the oak:
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
All follow this, and come to dust.
Fear no more the lightning-flash,
Nor the all-dread thunder-stone;
Fear not slander, censure rash;
Thou hast finished joy and moan;
All lovers young, all lovers must
Consign to thee, and come to dust.
No exorciser harm thee!
Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
Nothing ill come near thee!
Quiet consummation have;
And renowned be thy grave!
FEAR not, dear friend, but freely live your days
Though lesser lives should suffer.  Such am I,
A lesser life, that what is his of sky
Gladly would give for you, and what of praise.
Step, without trouble, down the sunlit ways.
We that have touched your raiment, are made whole
From all the selfish cankers of man's soul,
And we would see you happy, dear, or die.
Therefore be brave, and therefore, dear, be free;
Try all things resolutely, till the best,
Out of all lesser betters, you shall find;
And we, who have learned greatness from you, we,
Your lovers, with a still, contented mind,
See you well anchored in some port of rest.
Fear
An emotional preparedness
To face an eventuality
To manage an unacceptable development
To negotiate with a less amenable group
Fear is weakness, some say
Fear is strength, some other say
Fear often is quoted as reason
For our doing something or not doing
The nature and extent of fear
Are based on self-experienced earlier occasions
And sometimes on others' experience
A close examination will reveal
We fear not the event or the situation
But its impacts
On our financial, professional, social standing
Fear forms the spark for insurance
Which ensures at least the financial imbalance
Gets rectified to an extent
While experience paves way for fear
Non-experience knows no or less fear
Over-experience also makes one fearless
Fear also indicates
Our preparedness to see things go right
If fear is weakness
Fearlessness can prove dangerous
Basically we need to fear
But this should not stop us from going ahead
Fear, but venture with proven precautions
Know well in advance the impacts
Plan adequately to meet the consequences
Never ever arrogate yourself to fearlessness
Fear not fear
But fear fearlessness
Fear not the storms in their darkest hour
Fear opens doors so evil can devour
Fear not the dark ways which lurk around
Fear takes your joy and chains you bound
Fear not the morning as you awake
Fear creates disorder that’s no mistake
Fear not the troubles that cross your path
Fear can dismantle you with its wrath
Fear not those things in all you do
Fear has no home when Christ Jesus is in you
Once again Einstein rules
the universe, this time
his 'dark energy' viewed
through Hubble's eyes
expanding galaxies
laughing at gravity
moving celestial matter
expo-nentially, look out
nothing will collide, neither
planets, nor our stars
can hesitate, space
wrinkles invisible, unfelt
thundering senseless
skies into once nowhere
now arriving daily
to a reality near you.
I greet the burden of your soul
and wonder if your heart is whole
when one can hold it out to share
beware of love, beware.
From all this wretched hardship take
a lesson for your wisdom's sake
the future holds its sorrow's share
beware of love, beware.
A last and thoughtful parting word
to one whose broken dreams are heard
take comfort in the moment here
where you can love without the fear.
Fear not to love, Fear not!
Why must one such as I,
live my life with fear,
the fear to unjustly die.
It is not what you first hear,
I do not fear lack of breath.
I am worried about dying inside.
I do not fear eternal rest.
I am worried for my broken pride.
I lay in pieces on the floor,
with lack of peace to be found.
And I hope for you to open my door,
I wish you could gaze upon me downed.
I miss you away from my side,
and generally away from my life.
In death we die alone
to dust and bone
we return to take our
rightful place on earths throne
Dying of an endless cancer
Whispers on the cold clay earth
A stillness in the air
Filled by sudden fear
When the shadows of darkness
are knowingly very near
A stillness in the air
Filled by sudden fear
Whats next, When and where
Curiosity of thoughts
above or beyond
A heart beats endlessly
pondering on what is out there
which remains a mystery
Fear of failure has failed me again!
I’ve hit rock bottom so many times
that it has become my second home.
I can’t find what I’m looking for...
because I don’t where to even look.
Loneliness stood by me for so long,
but now even that abandons me!
Now all I have left is emptiness!
People choose to see what
they want in me
wanting to be my friend
seeking the knoweldge I
hold within from what
I have learned in school
and outside of school
Never really touching
what I am made up of on the inside
but if they ask, I tell them some
but nothing to deep
for I feel once they know
who I am on the inside
they will no longer be my friend
For they always want
people to know them inside and out
For me it takes either along time
or a very strong  conection between
me and that person
before I let them know
my deepest darkest secrets
that lay deep beneath my skin
with the hope that they will
still be my friend
Epicurus states our responsibility.
In all my meekness and volatility,
irresolute am I to appear.
But for him it was crystal clear
His thoughts on life and death.
Religion grasps at our own docility,
plays to the masses our susceptibilities.
He was, indeed, a pioneer.
It may just be strife and breath.
Is it beyond ignorant capabilities?
To pursue a fathomed possibility
that gods are just the last frontier
In modern man: imagineer.
No need for religion that brings hostility.
The atoms resume to be life and death.
Fear of Love
Have you ever loved someone so much that fear takes control of every emotions.
Fear of loving.
Fear of losing that felling of floating on air.
Fear of one day hearing the words…goodbye…
How can love & fear be twisted in one so that you can't even tell them apart.
Maybe, loving means risking everything for that one person who makes you feel larger then life.
I feel that with you, fear.
Fear of feelings I promised myself I would not feel again.
Fear of giving myself to be hurt again.
Fear of saying goodbye and never loving again.
Where do I go from here?
Do I let my fear of not being enough drive me away?
Do I let go now and let fear win?
Do I hold on and allow fear to drive you away?
Or do I hold on and shut fear out and know that real love will win?
Whatever path our love leads us down one thing I know is true.
Your love had made me realize what it is to love so much that fear takes control.
Whether that is good or bad remains to be seen.
Love knows no time, no place, and no fear.
We do that on our own.
We try to reason something, love, that had no reasoning about it.
Always from a far I saw you.
Until one day you were there with warmth in you face I could not refuse.
Now you are the man I dream of.
A fear I never expected when I looked at you.
A love that lit like a candle in a dark still room.
In one flash you lighted my heart with warmth and fear.
I do not know if fear of losing you will win.
Or if I have the strength to hold on and wait for our love to flourish into a lifetime of security and happiness.
The one thing I do know is that my fear of losing you is my heart admitting that there is a part of you I hold dear.
And that is the love I feel for you growing each day.
-Fear of Love-
Is it possible to have one fear?
Can you be afraid of fear?
Am I hidding in the shadow of fear?
I can standup for myself but can't stand up to me
I'm scared of being scared
I want to find myself facing my fears
Diving head first into danger
But don't want to hesitate knowing,
fear itself might hold me back.
Grasping me tightly until I fear all that is known
Scared of dark corners, creaking noises.
All together I still fear, fear the most.
Ilana Sabio
9/2/09 5: 27 PM
But fear of the inexplicable has not alone impoverished
the existence of the individual; the relationship between
one human being and another has also been cramped by it,
as though it had been lifted out of the riverbed of
endless possibilities and set down in a fallow spot on the
bank, to which nothing happens. For it is not inertia alone
that is responsible for human relationships repeating
themselves from case to case, indescribably monotonous and
unrenewed: it is shyness before any sort of new,unforeseeable
experience with which one does not think oneself able to cope.
But only someone who is ready for everything, who excludes
nothing, not even the most enigmatical, will live the relation
to another as something alive and will himself draw exhaustively
from his own existence. For if we think of this existence of
the individual as a larger or smaller room, it appears evident
that most people learn to know only a corner of their room, a
place by the window, a strip of floor on which they walk up and
down. Thus they have a certain security. And yet that dangerous
insecurity is so much more human which drives the prisoners in
Poe's stories to feel out the shapes of their horrible dungeons
and not be strangers to the unspeakable terror of their abode.
We, however, are not prisoners. No traps or snares are set about
us, and there is nothing which should intimidate or worry us.
We are set down in life as in the element to which we best
correspond, and over and above this we have through thousands of
years of accommodation become so like this life, that when we
hold still we are, through a happy mimicry,scarcely to be
distinguished from all that surrounds us. We have no reason to
mistrust our world, for it is not against us. Has it terrors,
they are our terrors; has it abysses, those abuses belong to us;
are dangers at hand, we must try to love them. And if only we
arrange our life according to that principle which counsels us
that we must always hold to the difficult, then that which now
still seems to us the most alien will become what we most trust
and find most faithful. How should we be able to forget those
ancient myths about dragons that at the last moment turn into
princesses; perhaps all the dragons of our lives are princesses
who are only waiting to see us once beautiful and brave. Perhaps
everything terrible is in its deepest being something helpless
that wants help from us.
I come now from those foreign places
Unknown to those with hidden faces
Bedecked and different, for them to leer
As one unknown, something to fear
Am I not I that you can see?
What is the fear you see in me?
This faceless one, that makes you quake
I hold no fear its what you make
Deceive yourself if that you may
And cringe from that which spells decay
I hold no terrors in these hands
I am but a vessel to unknown lands
There is nothing to fear but fear itself
Of what, the memory of love or wealth
You will take my hand, make no mistake
A new life starts as you awake.
Once a favorite conversation piece,
now something more like a disease.
A weathervane sings, a wind chime clangs.
It’s December, only a slight silver breeze,
but already I’m imagining the tangled
metal of cars, birds falling from the trees.
My therapist says fear is normal,
that it’s simply a matter of degrees,
the brain has an internal mechanism,
she says, a switch that flicks on and off with ease.
I imagine a kind of silver machine
in my brain, humming like a hive of bees,
fear hopping from synapse to synapse
like some sort of electric, Post-modern flea.
Each day I swallow my grief like a pill,
ignore my therapist’s advice, my wife’s pleas.
I wait for the sky to fall, longing for the days
when wind was only wind, trees only trees.
How does fear start?
When we are so small,
Fear of being alone,
With our cries we call.
Then comes further fear,
Fear of things we can't see,
Fear of the dark,
“Please don’t leave me.”
Then comes more fear,
Fear of unacceptance,
Do they want to be my friend?
Will this fear ever end?
Then comes teenage fear,
Fear of growing up,
Is this all I will be?
Will anyone ever trust me?
We pass through,
So much fear,
We go through it,
Year after year.
In old age we come full cycle,
Fear in our old bones,
We return to the oldest fear,
'I don’t want to be alone.'
Finally fear of death,
Comes with our last breath,
And that's when one comes to see,
Fear is reality.
Fear is the biggest test,
It never lets us rest,
So don't give fear a chance,
To hold you in a trance.
Take it by its toe,
In your heart, open a window,
Throw fear out and you will see,
Once and for all you can truly be free.
It is in the small things we see it
A spider in the corner
A hairy monster on the prowl
Lighting  on a dark night
A flash of ligh that brings a scream of rage
A new room filled with the unknown
The staring faces and smug looks of others
Later
If you return with a knowledge packed head
You do it with the dreaded anticipation of the day ahead
You do it hiding from the monsters
The laughing monsters of pain and hurt
You do it as a black shadow
Flickering between the light and the dark
Later
If you survived the hell of a thousand faces
You emerge with painful memories
But also with a hope of a new life
This is short lived
The stacking of bills
A never ending stream of debt
The dark monster trying to steal a loved one away
Emerging behind words of pain and hurt
Smothering your dwindling hope
Later
After a life fully lived
Your fear is in the struggle to stand
In the winter
The horrific beauty of the ice
In the Last sickness of your life
The beating of your heart when you know somethings wrong.
Why you hide from everything but think you're so strong.
Why you can't take chances and stay on the safe side.
Why you never sit in the front seat, or go on Six Flags rides.
Why you don't leave the house, even when you want to.
Why you don't have many friends to talk to you.
As Scared, Anxious and Modest as you appear, people think you're crazy, all I see is Fear.
I stand on the shore line,
the tide washes between my toes.
I stare at the horizon before me
in a dream-like state.
I should have been prepared.
My mother once said life is more
than you want it to be.
When the sky transforms into
a water color painting,
the water washes between my knees.
My eyes fixed on the horizon.
I knew it was coming,
but I was blinded by fear
and couldn't acknowledge it.
The moon replaces the
sun in the night sky.
The water rises to my neck.
I inform Hell, I am coming.
I shut my eyes as the salty water
rises over them.
I notice my fear has won again.
I open my eyes,
to watch the brightness of stars,
darkened by the depth of the water.
At the bottom, there is no Hell
but life.
I fear the vast dimensions of eternity.
I fear the gap between the platform and the train.
I fear the onset of a murderous campaign.
1 fear the palpitations caused by too much tea.
I fear the drawn pistol of a rapparee.
I fear the books will not survive the acid rain.
I fear the ruler and the blackboard and the cane.
I fear the Jabberwock, whatever it might be.
I fear the bad decisions of a referee.
I fear the only recourse is to plead insane.
I fear the implications of a lawyer's fee.
I fear the gremlins that have colonized my brain.
I fear to read the small print of the guarantee.
And what else do I fear? Let me begin again.
What do people fear?
We fear things we don't understand,
We fear things that can hurt us,
We fear things that put shivers up our spines,
We fear things that we see that we wish we didn't,
So why do you fear?
Fear of the unknown
is what makes me behind
Fear of tomorrow
is what makes me blind
Fear of the darkness
is what makes me seek the light
Fear of losing
is what makes me fight
Fear of pain
is what makes me insane
Fear of getting crushed
is what makes me struggle in vain
Fear of punishment
is what makes me flee
Fear of beasts
is what makes me a prey
Fear of destiny
is what makes me pray
Fear of time
is what makes my life a day
Fear of truth
is what makes me lie
Fear of life
is what makes me die
Fear of Fear
is what makes my life..
Too drear! !
Fear is just in
Your mind
Focus on what
Your doing
Then you’ll notice
Your not afraid
If your not afraid
Of death why be
Afraid of any thing else
To conquer your fears
Confront them
If it heart break
Lose the love of your life
But it will be hard to go alone
But if you ever notice you’ve
Always been alone
No one there to help ease
The pain
That’s why I go down the path of hate now
My fear is to love again
As a baby
Fear was none...
... maybe crying when I'm hungry or wet or not cuddled or not sensing the familiar scent of my mom's bosom...
As a Child
Fear was the darkness that is the friend of monsters
Fear was the neighbor's dog that could bite me when I pass by to go to school
Fear was the time when I got home and nobody's there
Fear was losing my cat
Fear was the thought that I won't be in the honor rolls comes closing day.
As a Young Girl
Fear was having breakouts in my skin
Fear was being sick
Fear was the night when I hear my baby sister's occasional gasps as she struggles to breath with her asthmatic lungs
Fear was being caught looking at my seatmate's answers
Fear was having my best friend tell on me
Fear was my crush knowing I like him
Fear was the uncertainty of the future.
As a Grown Up
Fear are the what ifs that keep plaguing my mind
Fear are the pressing responsibilities that seem impossible to carry
Fear is tiredness of spirit when I seem to have nothing more to give
Fear is being weighed and found lacking
Fear is Fear itself.
As WHOEVER...
FEAR IS LOSING YOU!
I smell it here, I smell it near
In our hearts, body and soul we wear
Fear! Year in and year out in full gear
Fear of death
Fear of rejection
Fear of loneliness
Fear of poverty
I hear it near, it stinks of hell my dear
In our hearts, body and soul we wear
Fear! Year in and year out in full gear
At times overwhelming and impossible to bear
Fear of being ridiculed
Fear of being single
Fear of being truthful
Fear of life always holding on to survive
Fear of change and what surprises it sprinkles
Fear of old age painted with priceless wrinkles
Let me tell it like Shakespeare
And make it plain and clear
Listen why be afraid of fear?
When fear itself can’t talk, walk, see nor hear!
Fear is an agonizing thing
It cripples deep inside
It freezes the thinking part of you
So you want to run and hide
It creeps like a burglar upon you
Causing shivers to run down your spine
It reduces you to an empty shell
And destroys all that is fine
Don't let fear get a hold on you
Fight it with all your might
Once you bring that fear in the open
Your world has a chance to be bright
I fear not of tomorrow
The dark scares me not
I am not full of sorrow
Although I've weeped a lot
What I fear is not on paper
There are no words big enough
I am not a hater
Although this world can be so tough
What I fear is much deeper
It is not simply cold or hot
What makes me a weeper
Is the fear of loosing all I've got
It's the fear of fear itself
That keeps me up at night
The fear of fear itself
Is what keeps happiness out of my sight
It's the fear of putting all plans on the shelf
That makes me afraid of loosing my very self
The fear of scaring away
Who I am inside
Is what makes me
So afraid I hide
What causes the fear that people feel,
When there scared and have to face the truth.
What cause that fear that people feel,
When there in love and have been hurt.
What is it that there afraid to face,
When fear is at the door.
Do they think that they can just walk away and not face it head on.
Because when you turn your back on that fear,
It follow's you night and day.
It creeps up when you least exspect it, and haunts you everyday.
Fear is just another diease that's waiting to be cured.
But the cure is not in a bottle, a vile or a store.
The cure is made from what's inside you.
The courage that you have.
But to use it, you must believe that fear is not all that you have.
Use what courage you can, to bring yourself forward and stand tall.
And the next time your afraid, remember fear is never far from the fall.
Don’t be afraid of fear
Because fear is afraid of itself
You give into fear when you doubt yourself
Fear makes you a complete opposite of yourself
Draining every bit of confidence your body has left
Fear tricks you of your potential
Wiping away your credentials
A life ruled by fear is life without hope
Of course people are going to have raining days
But with fear, everyday you will have your droughts
Be confident and put your head up high
How can fear overtake you when you’re looking at the
Beautiful clouds high in the sky
I know how father's strap would feel,
If ever I were caught,
So mother's jam I did not steal,
Though theft was in my thought.
Then turned fourteen and full of pitch,
Of love I was afraid,
And did not dare to dally with
Our pretty parlour maid.
And so it is and always was,
The path of rectitude
I've followed all my life because
The Parson said I should.
The dread of hell-fire held me straight
When I was wont to stray,
And though my guts I often hate,
I walk the narrow way.
I might have been a bandit or
A Casanovish blade,
But always I have prospered for
I've always been afraid;
Ay, fear's behind the best of us
And schools us for success,
And that is why I'm virtuous,
And happy - more or less.
So let me hail that mighty power
That goads me to be good,
And makes me cannily to cower
Amid foolhardihood;
Though I be criminal in gain,
My virtue a veneer,
I thank the God who keeps me sane,
And shields me from distress and pain,
And thrifts me on to golden gain,
Almighty Fear.
Do you see the window,
.....underneath the tree?
Do you see the sunshine
.....floating on the sea?
Do you feel the laughter
.....over at the bar?
Do you feel the pain
.....of the rusting car?
Do you understand the world?
.....Ask if you are real.
Do you understand our time?
.....Can you even feel.
Do you know the answers?
.....There are no questions here.
Do you know why we hate?
There exists inside us fear.
I am afraid, oh I am so afraid!
The cold black fear is clutching me to-night
As long ago when they would take the light
And leave the little child who would have prayed,
Frozen and sleepless at the thought of death.
My heart that beats too fast will rest too soon;
I shall not know if it be night or noon, --
Yet shall I struggle in the dark for breath?
Will no one fight the Terror for my sake,
The heavy darkness that no dawn will break?
How can they leave me in that dark alone,
Who loved the joy of light and warmth so much,
And thrilled so with the sense of sound and touch, --
How can they shut me underneath a stone?
I don't know fear
I once proclaimed
My heart is broken
My love is maimed
I know fear now
for i was shown
I am truly afraid
to be alone
That arresting fear!
That crippling fear!
That haunting fear!
Spirit wrecking fear!
Fear of loss of love
You court broken hearts
Accompany the rejected
Celebrate loss of loved ones
Before you many die defeated
Fear of failure
You cleverly drown success
Whispering believable doubts
Thief of dream-chests
You tout dreamers’ walkouts
Fear of poverty
You chain the poor in misery
Kill off initiatives, ambition
Feed worry and uncertainty
Bring indecision and procrastination
Fear of Criticism
You work on self-doubts
Wreck self-esteem
Make-believe what others thought
You kill possible dreams
Fear of ill-health and death
You wait with scythe at hell’s door
Lure weaklings into traps of wealth
Peddle illnesses, deaths your score
Devastate families, sell your wreaths
Fear of old age
You breed insecurity of dependence
Steal pride and honour
You rob freedom, after-life assurance
Bring on old-age wine’s stupor
I fear you, Sir Fear
You, father of lies
Father of all fears
Who marries you, dies!
1.10.2015
Fear, an emotion easily obtained,
Something we dread, or maybe of shame,
Fear for a life, or sickness within,
Emotions obtained, but difficult to contain.
An emotion in life, one we all share,
Fear of the unknown, fear of pain,
Fear of embarrassment, fear of death
No one likes it, but it’s always there.
So difficult to understand, often we may never,
To learn to accept, when others may not,
An emotion of agony and always pain,
A feeling of despair, yet so difficult to sever
Yet,  with the pain, help is there,
The friends we have, to help us through,
The faith we have, to pave the way,
To help us through, from those who care.
I fear the fear i cannot stop,
I fear it more and more,
And when i grind my teeth with pain,
The words come out demure.
I close my eyes with acid,
And dream while not asleep,
To confuse any enemys,
Anything i write i eat.
I fear the loss of loving,
But loving leads to pain,
So when im loving i admit,
I start to fear again.
I cry tears of happiness,
To pretend it isnt real,
I divulge no information,
On what is truely real.
I say sorry constantly,
It means nothing anymore,
Im sorry i cant be sincere,
Are you wanting more?
Would you like my fantasies,
To warp with truth and light,
Or can i keep them to myself,
So i can keep them warped inside?
I fear my sense of longing,
I turn me inside out,
My insides are much prettier,
Than the outsides ever felt.
So spit on me with poison,
Prove my worth is nil,
I dont fear your ignorance,
Its your clarity that kills.
Seek the maze of happiness,
And dont you chase you tail,
Dead ends lace every divide,
But no one can win or fail.
So fear the fear that i fear,
And see that all this mess,
Will not be sanitised with truth,
When you beg me to confess.
Fear ye not my wee one, fear ye not.
The dream you had was not for thee,
coming from a distant shore
a tempest wild blew it astray.
Fear ye not, for now a calm has come,
her bearings set, she has left your safe harbor,
to find one to her liking. Fear ye not not my wee
lass, fear ye not. Your Daddy's arms will
keep you safe from harm. So sleep ye now
my little one, for fear has gone...
Remember now what I say: For if you ever
have another soon it will go away;
Fear ye not...
The fear swells up
I begin to dread
That time in my life
That my life will end
The fog gets so thick
I can barely see
My brain starts to wonder
What will happen to me
I look over my shoulder
But no one is there
I could die right now
But I just don't care
Inside my chest
My heart begins to race
The end is so near
It's right in my face
The fear swells up
I begin to dread
That time in my life
That my life will end
Freedoms four he saw, that here, - from fear -
Responded to the war call – means and ends
Endeavoured to ally while bomb descends
Each day as Fate played out the game that year.
Dreams freedoms canvassed as tide turned appear
OMitting nothing, - yet each one depends
For sustenance upon the first which lends
Real substance sends the others, signal clear.
One pushed without the other’s insincere,
Mocks as it lo[o]cks on ethics Man defends,
Freedom today bends, hostage, - who transcends
Explicit rules, dares flout laws out of gear?
Aware remain some try to hide truth’s key.
Rock well the bedrock, strengthen future free...
No one really knows
What happens inside the room
As he locks the door
He’ll ask me to lie in bed
And when I rebuff
A slap will hit my face
I’ll give in loosing my strength
Coz I’ll meet my death
If refuse to be good in bed
For how many years
I lived in fear
With torn self-esteem
One day I had the courage
To call for a quit
But I was outraged
A flying kick here
A rushing punch there
Luckily I got help
I was totally devastated
Hurt physically
But hurt more emotionally
Good thing he never came back
But still threatening me
To kill me when he is back
Many years have passed
The fear was still carried
Wish that fear can be buried
The stream is shrunk--the pool is dry,
And we be comrades, thou and I;
With fevered jowl and dusty flank
Each jostling each along the bank;
And, by one drouthy fear made still,
Forgoing thought of quest or kill.
Now 'neath his dam the fawn may see,
The lean Pack-Wolf as cowed as he,
And the tall buck, unflinching, note
The fangs that tore his father's throat.
The pools are shrunk--
the streams are dry,
And we be playmates, thou and I,
Till yonder cloud--Good Hunting!--Loose
The rain that breaks our Water Truce.
i do not fear....
Armagadden, not the end,
not soldiers wearing masks,
not the plague, not nuclear disaster....
not prisons, not persecution,
not being labeled or hated.
not losing it all,
not guns, not drugs, nor
one world order.....
but i do fear....
not living all that i can live,
not giving all that i can give,
not matching beliefs with action,
not seeing all people as people,
not doing what i know is right....
not standing when i should stand,
not saying what i should say....
not writing the words i'm given....
I DO not fear to own me kin
To the glad clods in which spring flowers begin;
Or to my brothers, the great trees,
That speak with pleasant voices in the breeze,
Loud talkers with the winds that pass;
Or to my sister, the deep grass.
Of such I am, of such my body is,
That thrills to reach its lips to kiss.
That gives and takes with wind and sun and rain
And feels keen pleasure to the point of pain.
Of such are these,
The brotherhood of stalwart trees,
The humble family of flowers,
That make a light of shadowy bowers
Or star the edges of the bent:
They give and take sweet colour and sweet scent;
They joy to shed themselves abroad;
And tree and flower and grass and sod
Thrill and leap and live and sing
With silent voices in the Spring.
Hence I not fear to yield my breath,
Since all is still unchanged by death;
Since in some pleasant valley I may be,
Clod beside clod, or tree by tree,
Long ages hence, with her I love this hour;
And feel a lively joy to share
With her the sun and rain and air,
To taste her quiet neighbourhood
As the dumb things of field and wood,
The clod, the tree, and starry flower,
Alone of all things have the power.
543
I fear a Man of frugal Speech—
I fear a Silent Man—
Haranguer—I can overtake—
Or Babbler—entertain—
But He who weigheth—While the Rest—
Expend their furthest pound—
Of this Man—I am wary—
I fear that He is Grand—
I have a fear - I may be wrong:
that all too many, put off all thoughts of 'God'
by those who claim to speak for Him,
may cease to look for, name, all wondrous things:
the good, and beautiful, and truthful; which give joy;
which you and I love as the best of life...
and name them, praise them, to our children's ears
as all the wonder that they are...
I have a fear - I may be wrong:
that even seeing this world as sweetshop of delights
we never look to see
some unity.
I have a fear - I may be wrong:
that we may miss the mind's pure joy
of stepping back to see
beyond what shows itself,
a greater and more glorious view...
I have a fear - I may be wrong:
that though we have a hazy view
of 'Creation' and 'Creator',
we do not seek to play Creation's part -
as species disappear; as world pollutes...
I have a fear -I may be wrong:
we know the words; but miss the song.
It starts with the fear of God my friend and the fear of God alone,
That removes self from the heart and places Jesus on the throne.
Worldly knowledge won't change your heart, won't change it at all,
For my heart and yours, my friend, was tainted way back at the fall.
Even if you read God's Word and thoroughly understand what it said,
It won't benefit you at all my friend, if it only stays in your head.
For a head full of knowledge, even understanding, is only the start,
It becomes a true Saving Faith when you accept Jesus into your heart.
For it is with your heart you believe and are justified in His sight,
And with your mouth you confess and are saved, much to His delight.
The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom, and will be to the end,
For this world's wisdom is folly, in the eyes of The Lord my friend.
The fear of God is not weakness my friend, as it leads to Salvation,
While no fear or reverence towards God above leads to Damnation.
Man's wisdom and his desire to be God leads down all the wrong paths,
As God who sent His Son, as the Only Way, sits in Heaven and laughs.
These men always learning will never come to The Truth who will save,
And like the nations that forget God will be turned into the grave.
But there still is time for you to turn to The God of all creation,
And with fear in your heart, you can embrace His Truth of Salvation.
(Copyright © 03/2003)
I know the fear within you aches
It captivates your mind
But I know you have what it takes
Though you fear you're walking blind
But walking blinds a good thing
Walk by faith and not by sight
With faith you can conquer anything
But the void of faith is fright
Remember, you have nothing to fear
This battle is God's fight too
And He's never lost a fight, my dear
So why would he start with you?
Remember the Warrior you are
The leader of them all
God heard our war cries from afar
And now beside us he's fighting tall
God is with you now and tomorrow
And forever till forever's end
Please don't let life bring you sorrow
Because in God you've found a friend
Please listen to my words
Listen and hold them dear
God is Lord of lords
And with him, there's nothing to fear
I was a grovelling creature once,
And basely cleaved to earth:
I wanted spirit to renounce
The clod that gave me birth.
But God hath breathed upon a worm,
And sent me from above
Wings such as clothe an angel's form,
The wings of joy and love.
With these to Pisgah's top I fly
And there delighted stand,
To view, beneath a shining sky,
The spacious promised land.
The Lord of all the vast domain
Has promised it to me,
The length and breadth of all the plain
As far as faith can see.
How glorious is my privilege!
To Thee for help I call;
I stand upon a mountain's edge,
O save me, lest I fall!
Though much exalted in the Lord,
My strength is not my own;
Then let me tremble at His word,
And none shall cast me down.
Look not in my eyes, for fear
Thy mirror true the sight I see,
And there you find your face too clear
And love it and be lost like me.
One the long nights through must lie
Spent in star-defeated sighs,
But why should you as well as I
Perish? gaze not in my eyes.
A Grecian lad, as I hear tell,
One that many loved in vain,
Looked into a forest well
And never looked away again.
There, when the turf in springtime flowers,
With downward eye and gazes sad,
Stands amid the glancing showers
A jonquil, not a Grecian lad.
SHE is standing at the gate,
Tall and sweet,
And although the hour be late
She will greet
Me, her lover,
Smiling over
Absent mind and tardy feet.
‘Rest,’ I’ll say to her, ‘and more rest,’
As she wraps her love around me,
And I’ll tell her of the forest,
Of the strange, fear-haunted forest
Where the fleshless beings found me.
For I trod a rock-strewn rude way
Thinking only of my lover,
When the moonlight on the woodway,
Made a weird-way of the woodway,
And a place where demons hover.
For the leaves that had been sleeping
On the sodden soil-bed lying,
Look a motion and ’gan creeping,
Like a thousand small feet creeping,
And there rose a distant sighing.
Why the trees did droop their tresses,
Weeping leaves for something under,
And what bode in dim recesses,
Feline-lurked in dim recesses,
Paled my cheeks and heart to ponder.
Had I feet I would have hurried,
But the moonlit forest chained me,
Soul and body grasped and worried,
With frost-fingers gripped and worried,
Till, half-stayed, my hurt heart pained me.…
‘Rest,’ I’ll say, ‘my Love, and more rest;
Things unseen have life and motion
And they haunt the moonlit forest—
Soul-affronting haunt the forest,
And men meet them on the ocean.’
She will look so grave and kind,
Saying ‘Rest—
Rest is here for heart and mind
On this breast—
Put aside all
Fancies idle,
I will shield you—Love is best.’
I have this feeling it’s called fear
I  have the fear of who will be dying or will I be next?
If  I stop think about “how can I have myself prepare? “.
This fear is consuming me.
It’s like stealing something from me.
I don’t know what it is….
How to deal with it
I want to see it........
Can anyone help me to see?
Does this feeling go away?
Are these feelings real or  fake.
I  also have a fear of not achieving my dreams
That  thought makes me want to scream.
I have Fear of my life.Every day that’s not much
I could say on that, I try give it my strife
The real world gives me fear too.
Sometimes, “I wish everything would disappear
Instead appear into fear”.
The Fear of losing my mother before I am ready to let her go.
What road do I take so I won’t let fear win.
Fear takes my thoughts of losing my husband, and
losing one of my children too.
Even though, I almost did loose a child.
I can let the fear, do what it is doing..
I fear of losing my dearest friend.
I am sorry I cant pretend that fear is not here.
The fear of my own death and the cause of it will be?
I don’t want to see.
The fear of my lifestyle should  it be  the way it should be lived?
or should it be change?
Do I dear change it, but how?
I know that I have a fear of being alone.
It’s the unknown
Is My Biggest Fear
Do you want to know,
What I fear the most?
It isn’t a vampire,
Nor a ghost.
For the werewolf's claw,
I do not hide,
The banshee and I,
Walk side by side.
I chat with the witch,
About cook recipes,
Not even the monsters,
I do despise.
No only one thing,
Do fear with a passion,
No, it’s not girls,
Who’re too into fashion.
I fear for to be lonely,
Without family and friends,
If they were all gone,
The my life would end.
fear may scare you
fear may hurt you
but whatever you do
don't fear fear
Fear of You
Fear of Me
Fear of Others
Fear you cannot See
You cannot 'smell' Fear
Or  'taste' Fear
You can't 'hear' Fear
Also not 'touch' Fear
But
Everyone 'Feels' Fear
How is this Possible?
When you cannot:
Touch, Smell, Taste or Hear
Fear
I have a fear of not knowing the Answer
I have no fear in death
I long for it
I find death for a child
Always looking for enjoyment
In what it kills
I have no fear in death
Death is what I can only see
But why, has it not come for me
It comes close but never comes for me
I have no fear in death
For death fears me
for I no longer fear my beast
I will not try to hide it anymore
I will no longer lock it inside
for I will not fear what is within me anymore
I will no longer fear what they created
I will embrace my beast
I will learn how to control it
instead of it controlling me
I will use it to break down the wall
the wall I’m trapped behind
I will use it so I can be seen
for when I embraced it
I became in control
for when I embraced it
it became part of me
it works with me now
not against me
it helps me over come my obstacles
I myself don't have the strength for
for it will teach me ways to release my anger
instead of bottling it up
Yes indeed, I'm going home one day very soon my dear friend,
My life on this earth is but a journey, it's definitely not the end.
Though there be wars and rumors of wars and all the earth be taken,
With my hope in The Rock of The Ages, my peace will not be shaken.
But those who know not The Lord will be taken down Satan's warpath,
Spiritually deceived they are all being led to God's final bloodbath.
But God's children have been redeemed and put on Salvation's path,
Have The Lord Jesus as their light and fear not war or the aftermath.
God's Judgment will fall on those who chose to mock and simply laugh,
But, those who chose to humbly fear The Lord will not suffer wrath.
And before God pours His Judgment down upon this wicked vile earth,
The Lord Jesus will first come to the clouds, to rapture His Church.
Friend, with many ominous signs you can be sure the end is very near,
Christians whose eyes are fixed on Jesus have nothing at all to fear.
Like the days of Noah, so it will be at the coming of The Son of Man,
Take a look friend, and see these signs today are definitely at hand.
The earth became corrupt and all the people had corrupted their ways.
The earth was filled with violence friend, and this was Noah's days.
Not woe, but The Lord's return is what we should all be anticipating,
And with joy, for He comes with Salvation to those who are waiting.
(Copyright © 04/2003)
Us godly fear delightful unto thee,
That fear that God himself delights to see
Bear sway in them that love him? then he will
Thy godly mind in this request fulfil.
By giving thee a fear that tremble shall,
At every trip thou takest, lest thou fall,
And him offend, or hurt thyself by sin,
Or cause poor souls that always blind have been
To stumble at thy falls, and harder be
Against their own salvation and thee.
That fear that of itself would rather choose
The rod, than to offend or to abuse
In anything that blessed worthy name,
That hath thee saved from that death and shame;
That sin would soon have brought thee to, if he
Had not imputed righteousness to thee.
I will love them, saith God, and not depart
From them, but put my fear within their heart,
That I to them may always lovely be,
And that they never may depart from me.
Just feel full of fear.
Time for that cold beer.
Find a friend with big ears.
Wont cring at my fears.
Cimb into that nest high.
After a few, then that sigh.
What keeps this liquid cold.
Drinking fast and not too slow.
Crazy how life just goes.
That guys got a funny nose.
Onward the march of day.
Over the bar, another days pay.
What can I do but cry.
So its time to say goodbye.
had less to do
with any harm
they might inflict
than with the sad
look in their eyes
expressing a need
for love he felt
he couldn't meet.
And so he looked
away from them.
He was too busy
for such obligations,
waiting instead
for angels to speak,
looking up at heaven
with an expression
they couldn't help
responding to,
try as they might
to avoid his gaze.
Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye,
That thou consum'st thy self in single life?
Ah, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife.
The world will be thy widow and still weep,
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
When every private widow well may keep,
By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind.
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
And kept unused the user so destroys it.
No love toward others in that bosom sits
That on himself such murd'rous shame commits.
What if your enemy just follows you,
And monitors your rise most shamelessly;
Beware and keep away from such men too,
Who love to hound good men relentlessly.
What if your friends have become foes, whole-lot?
You live in solitude, no soul to talk!
Much noise emanates from an empty pot!
Don’t ever turn back; just continue your walk.
What if the mighty Satan chases you,
From place to place, pillar to post, endless?
Ignore his calls, appearing calm; just do
Right things, the harder way round with fairness.
When God’s with you, why should you ever fear?
He’s your Friend who cares- with heart and ear!
In the empty field, in the morning,
the body waits to be claimed.
The spirit sits beside it, on a small rock--
nothing comes to give it form again.
Think of the body's loneliness.
At night pacing the sheared field,
its shadow buckled tightly around.
Such a long journey.
And already the remote, trembling lights of the village
not pausing for it as they scan the rows.
How far away they seem,
the wooden doors, the bread and milk
laid like weights on the table.
Fear is not what I am afraid of.
True, it is a frightful thing to fear;
But the fear of fearing fear is overwhelming
Especially when its form becomes sheer
Fear is like losing a tree of shade on a bristling day
Or losing your breath when you fall below the sea;
I fear this fear of fearing these fears
And it is this fear that is part and parcel of me.
Fear is like loving without being loved back,
Fear is like leaving without being left;
And the fear of loving and leaving and being loved and being left
Is opposed by the fear of not fearing anything
And being an empty vase, noisy and bereft
I fear not death nor do I fear life,
But I fear the fear of both as my peers;
If I could release one fear from my fears
It would be the fear of fearing these fears.
The Ghost of Fear
Oh! What a terrible demon am I
Invading your thoughts, infecting your lives
Making you think twice, hesitate and stress
Causing self doubt and making you less
What will they say, Oh! What will ensue?
My Mother, the Vicar, the children and you?
And what of the neighbours, what will they do?
Their curtains are twitching, eyes peeking through
Can I afford it, is it too dear?
My purse strings are stretching… breaking I fear!
But, she’s a Blackman, but he’s a girl!
This is not natural
Very strange world!
Is it too late? Do I have time?
Perhaps I should leave it
At this age of mine
Is it too sweet, is it too fat?
Should I enjoy it?
I couldn’t do that!
My hips are too big, my bum is too fat
My legs are too skinny
My boobs are too flat!
Is it still safe, is it secure?
Can I still trust it?
I’m not so sure
So, throughout your life I constantly speak
Holding you back, so humble so meek
When will you realise God gave you a choice
And open yourself to that sure inner voice
But oh! You’re so weak of poor human seed
And I’m happy you stay so
For I continue to feed!
Mick Lines
My awkward grossness grows: I go down, through
I maintain my self in the conviction
that I have as much to say as others
and more apposite ways of saying it
Certainly I feel it has all been said
The short fear is that even saying it
in my own way is equally pointless
BE you still, be you still, trembling heart;
Remember the wisdom out of the old days:
Him who trembles before the flame and the flood,
And the winds that blow through the starry ways,
Let the starry winds and the flame and the flood
Cover over and hide, for he has no part
With the lonely, majestical multitude.
Though better men may fear that trumpet's warning,
I meet you, lady, on the Judgment morning,
With golden hope my spirit still adorning.
Our God who made you all so fair and sweet
Is three times gentle, and before his feet
Rejoicing I shall say:—"The girl you gave
Was my first Heaven, an angel bent to save.
Oh, God, her maker, if my ingrate breath
Is worth this rescue from the Second Death,
Perhaps her dear proud eyes grow gentler too
That scorned my graceless years and trophies few.
Gone are those years, and gone ill-deeds that turned
Her sacred beauty from my songs that burned.
We now as comrades through the stars may take
The rich and arduous quests I did forsake.
Grant me a seraph-guide to thread the throng
And quickly find that woman-soul so strong.
I dream that in her deeply-hidden heart
Hurt love lived on, though we were apart,
A brooding secret mercy like your own
That blooms to-day to vindicate your throne.
Why you've fear,
When I'm here?
Why shed a tear,
I'm not clear?
You're every year,
Grown up in fear,
That brings you tear,
When you aren't clear.
Show always a cheer,
In place of a tear,
That will, my dear,
Drive away your fear.
If still you've fear,
When I'm near,
You turn deaf ear,
To my words, dear.
I'm now clear,
That you've no fear,
Nor let a tear,
Down below your ear.
Cold tears plunging from the eyes that are forever lost
Making no since and trying to make it through
Its just not the same..not with out you
I’m not perfect and you never cared
Every pain, dream, and secret is all we shared
Laughing all day just to forget what we went through
I know this laughter is fake but what else can I do
The small things remind me such as a picture in a frame
But we both know that it will never be the same
I need my sister and i’m telling you all
don’t ever your sister fall
The pain of losing you sister is so much more
Something that no teenager should indoor
Wipe the tears off my face and try to make it look like I can keep on going
But I don’t know how much of this fake joy I can keep showing
don’t ever lose your sister and keep her near
Teach your sister how to love and how to always be dear
And to my sister, Chelsi this is for you
I hope no one will take in my worst fear come true! !
fire
passion
ice
estrangement
ying
the cold
yang
warmth
sun
cheerfulness
moon
melancholy reigns
between she and him
a lane
each agrees
to walk negotiating
fire and ice
ying,  yang
sun, moon
both knowing
that the human world
has evolved
in between these opposites
and in between
they would survive
and grow, procreate
At that moment in time, the point of no return
You’re standing inside the fire watching yourself burn
You don't feel the pain as you stand comfortably numb
Watching your life unfold, watching it come undone
You’re caught in the fire as you break down and cry
Watching your life fade as you wave it goodbye
You touch the fire but it freezes you, you want the feeling back
Watching the smoke fill your eyes as it turns to a void of black
You'll do anything, whatever it takes not to fade away
Anything instead of watching your life burn everyday
You'll do anything to stop your heart from turning to dust
Anything to stop your tears creating a life turned to rust
You need to find that once bright encompassing spark
The reason that will pull you into the light and out of the dark
Words of wisdom can save you, if only you can be told
You need to hide from the flames and run from the cold
You no longer want to wave your life a tearful goodbye
You no longer wish to stand inside the fire and cry
At that moment in time, the point of no return
You no longer wish to watch yourself burn
After that hot gospeller has levelled all but the churched sky,
I wrote the tale by tallow of a city's death by fire;
Under a candle's eye, that smoked in tears, I
Wanted to tell, in more than wax, of faiths that were snapped like wire.
All day I walked abroad among the rubbled tales,
Shocked at each wall that stood on the street like a liar;
Loud was the bird-rocked sky, and all the clouds were bales
Torn open by looting, and white, in spite of the fire.
By the smoking sea, where Christ walked, I asked, why
Should a man wax tears, when his wooden world fails?
In town, leaves were paper, but the hills were a flock of faiths;
To a boy who walked all day, each leaf was a green breath
Rebuilding a love I thought was dead as nails,
Blessing the death and the baptism by fire.
The man was sentenced to death
jury was agreed and the magistrate already signed.
He was an innocent criminal and a scapegoat
but no options.
The true criminal with the Lords
and the Law is imbalanced.
One night in the prison cell
he saw a fire-fly like an ambulance
and he scribbled on the wall.
'Tomorrow morning a prince comes
to take me away, a better world,
my little fire-fly you try to show me the way
and I see that real world from your faint light.
Thank you so much my dear
now only I realized that I was in the total darkness
beneath the sun and moon.'
Welcome to our world my dear friend Denis.Joe
It was so fulminating.
A fire burned within
from spindly kindling
and a breath of air
it sprang to life
consuming obstacles
and dull objections
and stark conventions.
Iit jumped all gaps
yet was not seen
by those who could
and bravely would
rise in defence
in bold offence.
So unexpected,
not wished for even,
it took on quickly
and without mercy
a life of egotistic
and autonomic
well, somewhat comic
and drooling presence.
So unprepared
so stunned and scared
yet breathing in
this deadly fragrance
and longing for
the nectar of
a soul ordained
for me alone
and nought is left
to say or do
we were as such
simply because
we had to be
it was a law
of nature
one which can not
be broken
by mere humans.
A fire burns
so cleanly when
the darkness
of our doubts
is absent.
And as I float
in saddened waves
of smoke and seek
those mirrors
which could give,
perhaps be saviours
for answers
from my soul
and heart
my tortured mind
does not perceive
what she must know,
perhaps relieved
and rescued in
the nick of love
from devastation.
I miss you so
my heartease flower
but hope you will
not hear those words
or feel the heat
or smell the smoke.
And if you see
a distant fire
be not alarmed
the smoke has gone.
The sunset was like a fire-sky
That truly lit up my world
Clouds were orange and yellow
Like a paintbrush making swirls
The beauty was overwhelming
But a little bit frightening as well
It raged as though with fury
As it all began to swell
The colors were also reflected
In the lake where trees surround
It was quiet as I stood mesmerized
There was barely a single sound
I saw some fellows out fishing
Their bodies in semi-dark
Nothing looked quite real
The lake looked cold and stark
I doubt that I will ever see
A sunset just like this again
The entire sky so unimaginable
In a shocking kind of blend!
Right down the shocked street with a
siren-blast
That sends all else skittering to the
curb,
Redness, brass, ladders and hats hurl
past,
Blurring to sheer verb,
Shift at the corner into uproarious gear
And make it around the turn in a squall
of traction,
The headlong bell maintaining sure and
clear,
Thought is degraded action!
Beautiful, heavy, unweary, loud,
obvious thing!
I stand here purged of nuance, my
mind a blank.
All I was brooding upon has taken
wing,
And I have you to thank.
As you howl beyond hearing I carry you
into my mind,
Ladders and brass and all, there to
admire
Your phoenix-red simplicity, enshrined
In that not extinguished fire.
Submitted by Robert Fish
When the north wind moans thro' the blind creek courses
And revels with harsh, hot sand,
I loose the horses, the wild red horses,
I loose the horses, the mad, red horses,
And terror is on the land.
With prophetic murmer the hills are humming,
The forest-kings bend and blow;
With hoofs of brass on the baked earth strumming,
O brave red horses, they hear us coming,
And the legions of death lean low.
O'er the wooded height, and the sandy hollow
Where the boles to the axe have rung,
Tho' they fly the foreman as flies the swallow,
The fierce red horses, my horses, follow
With flanks to the faint earth flung.
Or with frenzied hieroglyphs, fear embossing
Night's sable horizon bars,
Thro' tangled mazes of death-darts crossing,
I swing my leaders and watch them tossing
Their red manes against the stars.
But when South winds sob in the drowned creek courses
And whisper to hard wet sand,
I hold the horses, the spent red horses,
I hold the horses, the tired red horses,
And silence is on the land.
Yea, the South wind sobs among the drowned creek courses
For sorrows no man shall bind---
Ah, God! For the horses, the black plumed horses,
Dear God! For the horses, Death's own pale horses,
That raced in the tracks behind.
The Milky Way was curled and curdled in the sky tonight
when on the shore I heard the waves crash down;
a thousand cats leaped miowling at the moon,
wolves howled at the wind
and in the forest a nightingale sang till dawn.
Mañana tocaran los guitaros
de mi corazón
y cantaran los vientos
and strangest drums will thrum
while Miriam will undulate and set her cymbals
trembling with prophesies, crying
Wa habibi, what has befallen you?
Oh where shall I find you?
I found you coming towards me….
Mi amor, my best beloved
come intertwine, unite and fling
your robes upon the sea shore
where waves will bear them to far islands,
your jewels will shoot like meteors into the oceans
and flying fish will leap out shooting to the heavens…
may all our passion reign in glorious confusion
while in the forest
a nightingale will sing one song till dawn.
LRH
6.7.06
An olive fire's a lovely thing;
Somehow it makes me think of Spring
As in my grate it over-spills
With dancing flames like daffodils.
They flirt and frolic, twist and twine,
The brassy fire-irons wink and shine. . . .
Leap gold, you flamelets! Laugh and sing:
An olive fire's a lovely thing.
An olive fire's a household shrine:
A crusty loaf, a jug of wine,
An apple and a chunk of cheese -
Oh I could be content with these.
But if my curse of oil is there,
To fry a fresh-caught fish, I swear
I do not envy any king,
As sitting by my hearth I sing:
An olive fire's a lovely thing.
When old and worn, of life I tire,
I'll sit before an olive fire,
And watch the feather ash like snow
As softly as a rose heart glow;
The tawny roots will loose their hoard
Of sunbeams centuries have stored,
And flames like yellow chicken's cheep,
Till in my heart Peace is so deep:
With hands prayer-clasped I sleep . . . and sleep.
Never until the mankind making
Bird beast and flower
Fathering and all humbling darkness
Tells with silence the last light breaking
And the still hour
Is come of the sea tumbling in harness
And I must enter again the round
Zion of the water bead
And the synagogue of the ear of corn
Shall I let pray the shadow of a sound
Or sow my salt seed
In the least valley of sackcloth to mourn
The majesty and burning of the child's death.
I shall not murder
The mankind of her going with a grave truth
Nor blaspheme down the stations of the breath
With any further
Elegy of innocence and youth.
Deep with the first dead lies London's daughter,
Robed in the long friends,
The grains beyond age, the dark veins of her mother,
Secret by the unmourning water
Of the riding Thames.
After the first death, there is no other.
The lamps now glitter down the street;
Faintly sound the falling feet;
And the blue even slowly falls
About the garden trees and walls.
Now in the falling of the gloom
The red fire paints the empty room:
And warmly on the roof it looks,
And flickers on the back of books.
Armies march by tower and spire
Of cities blazing, in the fire;--
Till as I gaze with staring eyes,
The armies fall, the lustre dies.
Then once again the glow returns;
Again the phantom city burns;
And down the red-hot valley, lo!
The phantom armies marching go!
Blinking embers, tell me true
Where are those armies marching to,
And what the burning city is
That crumbles in your furnaces!
As king fishers catch fire, dragonflies draw flame;
As tumbled over rim in roundy wells
Stones ring; like each tucked string tells, each hung bell's
Bow swung finds tongue to fling out broad its name;
Each mortal thing does one thing and the same:
Deals out that being indoors each one dwells;
Selves -- goes itself; myself it speaks and spells,
Crying What I do is me: for that I came.
I say more: the just man justices;
Keeps grace: that keeps all his goings graces;
Acts in God's eye what in God's eye he is --
Christ. For Christ plays in ten thousand places,
Lovely in limbs, and lovely in eyes not his
To the Father through the features of men's faces.
The Sun woke me this morning loud
and clear, saying "Hey! I've been
trying to wake you up for fifteen
minutes. Don't be so rude, you are
only the second poet I've ever chosen
to speak to personally
so why
aren't you more attentive? If I could
burn you through the window I would
to wake you up. I can't hang around
here all day."
"Sorry, Sun, I stayed
up late last night talking to Hal."
"When I woke up Mayakovsky he was
a lot more prompt" the Sun said
petulantly. "Most people are up
already waiting to see if I'm going
to put in an appearance."
I tried
to apologize "I missed you yesterday."
"That's better" he said. "I didn't
know you'd come out." "You may be
wondering why I've come so close?"
"Yes" I said beginning to feel hot
wondering if maybe he wasn't burning me
anyway.
"Frankly I wanted to tell you
I like your poetry. I see a lot
on my rounds and you're okay. You may
not be the greatest thing on earth, but
you're different. Now, I've heard some
say you're crazy, they being excessively
calm themselves to my mind, and other
crazy poets think that you're a boring
reactionary. Not me.
Just keep on
like I do and pay no attention. You'll
find that people always will complain
about the atmosphere, either too hot
or too cold too bright or too dark, days
too short or too long.
If you don't appear
at all one day they think you're lazy
or dead. Just keep right on, I like it.
And don't worry about your lineage
poetic or natural. The Sun shines on
the jungle, you know, on the tundra
the sea, the ghetto. Wherever you were
I knew it and saw you moving. I was waiting
for you to get to work.
And now that you
are making your own days, so to speak,
even if no one reads you but me
you won't be depressed. Not
everyone can look up, even at me. It
hurts their eyes."
"Oh Sun, I'm so grateful to you!"
"Thanks and remember I'm watching. It's
easier for me to speak to you out
here. I don't have to slide down
between buildings to get your ear.
I know you love Manhattan, but
you ought to look up more often.
And
always embrace things, people earth
sky stars, as I do, freely and with
the appropriate sense of space. That
is your inclination, known in the heavens
and you should follow it to hell, if
necessary, which I doubt.
Maybe we'll
speak again in Africa, of which I too
am specially fond. Go back to sleep now
Frank, and I may leave a tiny poem
in that brain of yours as my farewell."
"Sun, don't go!" I was awake
at last. "No, go I must, they're calling
me."
"Who are they?"
Rising he said "Some
day you'll know. They're calling to you
too." Darkly he rose, and then I slept.
Slowly I smoke and hug my knee,
The while a witless masquerade
Of things that only children see
Floats in a mist of light and shade:
They pass, a flimsy cavalcade,
And with a weak, remindful glow,
The falling embers break and fade,
As one by one the phantoms go.
Then, with a melancholy glee
To think where once my fancy strayed,
I muse on what the years may be
Whose coming tales are all unsaid,
Till tongs and shovel, snugly laid
Within their shadowed niches, grow
By grim degrees to pick and spade,
As one by one the phantoms go.
But then, what though the mystic Three
Around me ply their merry trade? --
And Charon soon may carry me
Across the gloomy Stygian glade? --
Be up, my soul! nor be afraid
Of what some unborn year may show;
But mind your human debts are paid,
As one by one the phantoms go.
ENVOY
Life is the game that must be played:
This truth at least, good friend, we know;
So live and laugh, nor be dismayed
As one by one the phantoms go.
Our Sun beats down, its rays so strong,
It heats this earth, where we belong,
Ripening to gold the waving corn,
Rising up high to start the morn.
Its sunshine pleasures all it greets,
And brightens so, our darkest streets.
With warmth it transforms a frosty day,
And bright beams sweep the gloom away.
Oh, ball of fire, shine radiant for me,
And all your famed glory, let me see.
©   Ernestine Northover
It was his first, and smuggled in at that,
the Commies hadn't yet approved of things
that made the forces of free market grow.
Blue Jeans, they said were just a symbol,
they stood for what they knew as exploitation,
like nylon stockings, even pantyhose,
they were not needed in the State of workers,
and peasants who adored their stoic loyalty.
But, as so often happens, things did change,
hard currency could plug so many holes,
and tastes of those old clowns were all the same.
Thus, Trabbis mixed with Stuttgart limousines,
and colour came to visit all the grey facades,
where he was now accelerating, metal heels
were echoing back from the Brandenburger Gate.
He'd followed the instruction of the merchant then,
to soak inside a tub of frigid water, wearing them,
all Levis Jeans demanded this, it made them fit.
He recognised the STASI by their armpit bulges,
they questioned him at length about his views
of their beloved Workers' Paradise and more.
He could not speak, no words were formed
or could be heard, he stood in silence, motionless,
and visualised how millions of those little sperms
were dying as he stood, near Brandenburger Gate
with shrunken Levis Jeans, and heat inside his crotch.
A killer, so the STASI said, came always from the West.
Imperialists, warmongers who roamed in the night.
And, as the voices built toward a new crescendo
he lost his cool and screamed right into faces who
were solemn symbols of authority here in this land,
the meaning was not out of place or time, the words,
in perfect English now: 'Great balls of fire.'
How long will this go on?
Consumed daily by this passionate fire
...the way I tempt fate
tease the flame closer to my eager skin
I have taken this nameless obsession
and set it  to music
For each year that has passed
when my heart remained frozen
I have taken a vow
dedicating myself to the thawing
I feel, touch, taste each exquisite moment
Whether stolen or given as a gift
Mine now, to wrap in black velvet
keep as a treasure
One by one, I lit the candles
watched them burn
Blue, for my soul in turmoil
Red, for my one true love
Black, for that place unspoken
White....
I save for you alone
Although logic and history dispute this:
we will light it together on the darkest night
illuminate eachothers shadow
at the alter of my desire
Now at our casement the wind is shrilling,
Poignant and keen
And all the great boughs of the pines between
It is harping a lone and hungering strain
To the eldritch weeping of the rain;
And then to the wild, wet valley flying
It is seeking, sighing,
Something lost in the summer olden.
When night was silver and day was golden;
But out on the shore the waves are moaning
With ancient and never fulfilled desire,
And the spirits of all the empty spaces,
Of all the dark and haunted places,
With the rain and the wind on their death-white faces,
Come to the lure of our leaping fire.
But we bar them out with this rose-red splendor
From our blithe domain,
And drown the whimper of wind and rain
With undaunted laughter, echoing long,
Cheery old tale and gay old song;
Ours is the joyance of ripe fruition,
Attained ambition.
Ours is the treasure of tested loving,
Friendship that needs no further proving;
No more of springtime hopes, sweet and uncertain,
Here we have largess of summer in fee­
Pile high the logs till the flame be leaping,
At bay the chill of the autumn keeping,
While pilgrim-wise, we may go a-reaping
In the fairest meadow of memory!
I.
How well I know what I mean to do
When the long dark autumn-evenings come:
And where, my soul, is thy pleasant hue?
With the music of all thy voices, dumb
In life's November too!
II.
I shall be found by the fire, suppose,
O'er a great wise book as beseemeth age,
While the shutters flap as the cross-wind blows
And I turn the page, and I turn the page,
Not verse now, only prose!
III.
Till the young ones whisper, finger on lip,
``There he is at it, deep in Greek:
``Now then, or never, out we slip
``To cut from the hazels by the creek
``A mainmast for our ship!''
IV.
I shall be at it indeed, my friends:
Greek puts already on either side
Such a branch-work forth as soon extends
To a vista opening far and wide,
And I pass out where it ends.
V.
The outside-frame, like your hazel-trees:
But the inside-archway widens fast,
And a rarer sort succeeds to these,
And we slope to Italy at last
And youth, by green degrees.
VI.
I follow wherever I am led,
Knowing so well the leader's hand:
Oh woman-country, wooed not wed,
Loved all the more by earth's male-lands,
Laid to their hearts instead!
VII.
Look at the ruined chapel again
Half-way up in the Alpine gorge!
Is that a tower, I point you plain,
Or is it a mill, or an iron-forge
Breaks solitude in vain?
VIII.
A turn, and we stand in the heart of things:
The woods are round us, heaped and dim;
From slab to slab how it slips and springs,
The thread of water single and slim,
Through the ravage some torrent brings!
IX.
Does it feed the little lake below?
That speck of white just on its marge
Is Pella; see, in the evening-glow,
How sharp the silver spear-heads charge
When Alp meets heaven in snow!
X.
On our other side is the straight-up rock;
And a path is kept 'twixt the gorge and it
By boulder-stones where lichens mock
The marks on a moth, and small ferns fit
Their teeth to the polished block.
XI.
Oh the sense of the yellow mountain-flowers,
And thorny balls, each three in one,
The chestnuts throw on our path in showers!
For the drop of the woodland fruit's begun,
These early November hours,
XII.
That crimson the creeper's leaf across
Like a splash of blood, intense, abrupt,
O'er a shield else gold from rim to boss,
And lay it for show on the fairy-cupped
Elf-needled mat of moss,
XIII.
By the rose-flesh mushrooms, undivulged
Last evening---nay, in to-day's first dew
Yon sudden coral nipple bulged,
Where a freaked fawn-coloured flaky crew
Of toadstools peep indulged.
XIV.
And yonder, at foot of the fronting ridge
That takes the turn to a range beyond,
Is the chapel reached by the one-arched bridge
Where the water is stopped in a stagnant pond
Danced over by the midge.
XV.
The chapel and bridge are of stone alike,
Blackish-grey and mostly wet;
Cut hemp-stalks steep in the narrow dyke.
See here again, how the lichens fret
And the roots of the ivy strike!
XVI.
Poor little place, where its one priest comes
On a festa-day, if he comes at all,
To the dozen folk from their scattered homes,
Gathered within that precinct small
By the dozen ways one roams---
XVII.
To drop from the charcoal-burners' huts,
Or climb from the hemp-dressers' low shed,
Leave the grange where the woodman stores his nuts,
Or the wattled cote where the fowlers spread
Their gear on the rock's bare juts.
XVIII.
It has some pretension too, this front,
With its bit of fresco half-moon-wise
Set over the porch, Art's early wont:
'Tis John in the Desert, I surmise,
But has borne the weather's brunt---
XIX.
Not from the fault of the builder, though,
For a pent-house properly projects
Where three carved beams make a certain show,
Dating---good thought of our architect's---
'Five, six, nine, he lets you know.
XX.
And all day long a bird sings there,
And a stray sheep drinks at the pond at times;
The place is silent and aware;
It has had its scenes, its joys and crimes,
But that is its own affair.
XXI.
My perfect wife, my Leonor,
Oh heart, my own, oh eyes, mine too,
Whom else could I dare look backward for,
With whom beside should I dare pursue
The path grey heads abhor?
XXII.
For it leads to a crag's sheer edge with them;
Youth, flowery all the way, there stops---
Not they; age threatens and they contemn,
Till they reach the gulf wherein youth drops,
One inch from life's safe hem!
XXIII.
With me, youth led ... I will speak now,
No longer watch you as you sit
Reading by fire-light, that great brow
And the spirit-small hand propping it,
Mutely, my heart knows how---
XXIV.
When, if I think but deep enough,
You are wont to answer, prompt as rhyme;
And you, too, find without rebuff
Response your soul seeks many a time
Piercing its fine flesh-stuff.
XXV.
My own, confirm me! If I tread
This path back, is it not in pride
To think how little I dreamed it led
To an age so blest that, by its side,
Youth seems the waste instead?
XXVI.
My own, see where the years conduct!
At first, 'twas something our two souls
Should mix as mists do; each is sucked
In each now: on, the new stream rolls,
Whatever rocks obstruct.
XXVII.
Think, when our one soul understands
The great Word which makes all things new,
When earth breaks up and heaven expands,
How will the change strike me and you
ln the house not made with hands?
XXVIII.
Oh I must feel your brain prompt mine,
Your heart anticipate my heart,
You must be just before, in fine,
See and make me see, for your part,
New depths of the divine!
XXIX.
But who could have expected this
When we two drew together first
Just for the obvious human bliss,
To satisfy life's daily thirst
With a thing men seldom miss?
XXX.
Come back with me to the first of all,
Let us lean and love it over again,
Let us now forget and now recall,
Break the rosary in a pearly rain,
And gather what we let fall!
XXXI.
What did I say?---that a small bird sings
All day long, save when a brown pair
Of hawks from the wood float with wide wings
Strained to a bell: 'gainst noon-day glare
You count the streaks and rings.
XXXII.
But at afternoon or almost eve
'Tis better; then the silence grows
To that degree, you half believe
It must get rid of what it knows,
Its bosom does so heave.
XXXIII.
Hither we walked then, side by side,
Arm in arm and cheek to cheek,
And still I questioned or replied,
While my heart, convulsed to really speak,
Lay choking in its pride.
XXXIV.
Silent the crumbling bridge we cross,
And pity and praise the chapel sweet,
And care about the fresco's loss,
And wish for our souls a like retreat,
And wonder at the moss.
XXXV.
Stoop and kneel on the settle under,
Look through the window's grated square:
Nothing to see! For fear of plunder,
The cross is down and the altar bare,
As if thieves don't fear thunder.
XXXVI.
We stoop and look in through the grate,
See the little porch and rustic door,
Read duly the dead builder's date;
Then cross the bridge that we crossed before,
Take the path again---but wait!
XXXVII.
Oh moment, one and infinite!
The water slips o'er stock and stone;
The West is tender, hardly bright:
How grey at once is the evening grown---
One star, its chrysolite!
XXXVIII.
We two stood there with never a third,
But each by each, as each knew well:
The sights we saw and the sounds we heard,
The lights and the shades made up a spell
Till the trouble grew and stirred.
XXXIX.
Oh, the little more, and how much it is!
And the little less, and what worlds away!
How a sound shall quicken content to bliss,
Or a breath suspend the blood's best play,
And life be a proof of this!
XL.
Had she willed it, still had stood the screen
So slight, so sure, 'twixt my love and her:
I could fix her face with a guard between,
And find her soul as when friends confer,
Friends---lovers that might have been.
XLI.
For my heart had a touch of the woodland-time,
Wanting to sleep now over its best.
Shake the whole tree in the summer-prime,
But bring to the Iast leaf no such test!
``Hold the last fast!'' runs the rhyme.
XLII.
For a chance to make your little much,
To gain a lover and lose a friend,
Venture the tree and a myriad such,
When nothing you mar but the year can mend:
But a last leaf---fear to touch!
XLIII.
Yet should it unfasten itself and fall
Eddying down till it find your face
At some slight wind---best chance of all!
Be your heart henceforth its dwelling-place
You trembled to forestall!
XLIV.
Worth how well, those dark grey eyes,
That hair so dark and dear, how worth
That a man should strive and agonize,
And taste a veriest hell on earth
For the hope of such a prize!
XIIV.
You might have turned and tried a man,
Set him a space to weary and wear,
And prove which suited more your plan,
His best of hope or his worst despair,
Yet end as he began.
XLVI.
But you spared me this, like the heart you are,
And filled my empty heart at a word.
If two lives join, there is oft a scar,
They are one and one, with a shadowy third;
One near one is too far.
XLVII.
A moment after, and hands unseen
Were hanging the night around us fast
But we knew that a bar was broken between
Life and life: we were mixed at last
In spite of the mortal screen.
XLVIII.
The forests had done it; there they stood;
We caught for a moment the powers at play:
They had mingled us so, for once and good,
Their work was done---we might go or stay,
They relapsed to their ancient mood.
XLIX.
How the world is made for each of us!
How all we perceive and know in it
Tends to some moment's product thus,
When a soul declares itself---to wit,
By its fruit, the thing it does
L.
Be hate that fruit or love that fruit,
It forwards the general deed of man,
And each of the Many helps to recruit
The life of the race by a general plan;
Each living his own, to boot.
LI.
I am named and known by that moment's feat;
There took my station and degree;
So grew my own small life complete,
As nature obtained her best of me---
One born to love you, sweet!
LII.
And to watch you sink by the fire-side now
Back again, as you mutely sit
Musing by fire-light, that great brow
And the spirit-small hand propping it,
Yonder, my heart knows how!
LIII.
So, earth has gained by one man the more,
And the gain of earth must be heaven's gain too;
And the whole is well worth thinking o'er
When autumn comes: which I mean to do
One day, as I said before.
Embers turning deep crimson red
Streaking through the hardened wood
Ashes fallen to the ground
The world silent not a sound
Smoke rising to the sky
Gentle breezes blowing by
Stars twinkling in the night
The moon so full and so bright
Midnight sky shaded with streaks of indigo
Pondering on the colors as if I were Van Gough
Serene solemn night
Sitting by the fire’s light
Wishing you were here by my side
And then.. Perhaps my deep feelings for you I would not have to hide
Only forty more sleeps
and then Santa will come
with the bells and the beeps
and the presents for some.
Only good kids will get
what all good kids have earned
so there's no need to fret
where our tribe is concerned.
Now the stockings are swaying
near the chimney's old brick
and the snowflakes are playing
all in honour of Nick.
It is bedtime and after
but all riled are the boys
we can hear their sweet laughter
as they think about toys.
They've turned on  in a hurry
their  CB radios
will they work in the flurry
of the blizzard, who knows?
They were talking on air
to a deep and stern voice
and with all-knowing flair
over loud static noise,
were discussing details
as to when the big shipment
with the things it entails
thanks to proper equipment,
would arrive then to fill
all the stockings at last
when the room became still,
and young Greg yelled it fast:
' Hold your reindeers,  St. Nick
when you get here and use
it is equally quick
the front door, do not choose
our old chimney today
you will burn in the flames
and our stockings will sway
with no toys and no games.'
Now you know the tradition
of the stockings still works
and each year it's his mission
to stop by at those jerks
who with timber and coal
light their Christmas  Eve fire
from the distant North Pole
comes the man we admire,
and he slides with Ho Ho
down the chimney to bring
all the goodies we know
and his praises we sing.
But the sound  Ho Ho Ho
is a real good answer
it's an arctic air blow
as suggested by Prancer.
And no fire keeps going
to prevent bringing gifts
it is cold out and snowing
and they fly over drifts.
Merry Christmas to Santa
and to all living things
from the Pole to Atlanta
and for paupers and kings.
O! golden Hereafter, thine every bright rafter
Will shake in the thunder of sanctified song;
And every swift angel proclaim an evangel,
To summon God’s saints to the glorified throng.
Refrain
O! chorus of fire,
That will burst from God’s choir,
When the loud hallelujahs leap up from the soul,
Till the flowers on the hills,
And the waves in the rills,
Shall tremble with joy in the music’s deep roll.
O! host without number, awaked from death’s slumber,
Who walk in white robes on the emerald shore;
The glory is o’er you, the throne is before you,
And weeping will come to your spirits no more.
Refrain
O! mansions eternal, in fields ever vernal,
Awaiting your tenantry ransomed from sin,
We’ll stand on your pavement, no more in enslavement,
With home-songs to Jesus Who welcomes us in.
Refrain
O! Jesus, our Master, command to beat faster
These weary life pulses that bring us to Thee,
Till, past the dark portal, we stand up immortal,
And sweep with hosannas the jasper lit sea.
Refrain
they'll
fall away
one by one
as strands of you
milk the moments
you had
for what they were worth,
still smouldering
in the hand
even though
you knew
in your hearts mind
that
it was pretence
as they smiled
behind soft
contemptuous lips
that offer you
quiet resentment
instead of love
just because
you breathe
and are
uniquely you,
and that
makes them
uncomfortable
against their
square jawed
perfect,
materialistic plan
that can't afford
you
but can
their every whim
which makes them
sorely aware
of their
superlative selves
so they
push you away
thinking
you are less
then them
because
you don't fit
but you keep
steering steadfast
in the sanctity
of truth
inside of trust
as the most valuable
integer
and they fear
''your being''
because
through you
they see
themselves
impoverished,
and their superior
ways collapse
in blind belief
as they continue
to make spaces
''for time''
more than sharing
or listening
or caring
for anyone else
because
what they want
is never enough-
so let them fall away
to be left
as dust
when matter
does not matter
and when you are
feeling raw and
naked and
real
then you can
afford
the comfort
of being
with another
and that is
what is true
and right
and real
and what you
are all about.
Copyright ©2005
Fire, dark and burning bright
Bright as day, yet, gives no light
In the shadows of the night
Take away immortal sight
Blind soul eyes with black twilight
Banish day and burn the night
Remove sin from Heavens sight
Fire, twist and taint the once pure light
Heaven fought against your might
In the end, He lost the fight
Pure souls surrender to the evil light
As shadows move to reign the night
Angel's wings flutter in fearful flight
In the shadow of your light
Fire, sweet and sin filled bane
Make the devil go insane
As you burn his skin with acid rain
His screams are songs wrought in pain
His wake of Hell’s dark fire wanes
Death and pain are what he gains
Shadows of the devil’s bane
Wash away his sin with His holy name
Fire of the dragon’s heart
Don’t let us tear the world apart
I see pain in their eyes.
I hear sorrow in their cries.
Inside I break and cry alone,
with my eyes of fire and heart of stone.
No matter how much pain I feel
I am sure that I will always deal
the way I know..alone
with my eyes of fire and heart of stone.
Others may not know the fear.
They know just what they see or hear.
I come off cruel and cold.
Inside I'm not...I'm just not bold.
I have to thank my mother
for the love she's never shown
The one thing that she did give me...
her eyes of fire and heart of stone.
We come into this world with nothing and we depart with nothing. You departed with nothing. Yet you took everything.
There was something omnious about that night, something gloomy, something fateful. Maybe it was the wind and the rain. Maybe just a feeling. I suppose a fitting night to leave this world as we all eventually must. With nothing. Our final flight wont be delayed.
Why you had to leave I do not know. I do not understand. Maybe it is not for me to know, not for me to understand.
You where fire. I was ice. You melted me. I soothed you.
Alas, a burning soul will always leave this world in flames, as was your fate. Myself?  I returned to my cold home in the north where ice belongs, with nothing.
Nothing.
Some say the world will end in fire,
Some say in ice.
From what I've tasted of desire
I hold with those who favor fire.
But if it had to perish twice,
I think I know enough of hate
To say that for destruction ice
Is also great
And would suffice.
For this you've striven
Daring, to fail:
Your sky is riven
Like a tearing veil.
For this, you've wasted
Wings of your youth;
Divined, and tasted
Bitter springs of truth.
From sand unslakèd
Twisted strong cords,
And wandering naked
Among trysted swords.
There's a word unspoken,
A knot untied.
Whatever is broken
The earth may hide.
The road was jagged
Over sharp stones:
Your body's too ragged
To cover your bones.
The wind scatters
Tears upon dust;
Your soul's in tatters
Where the spears thrust.
If you like you can enquire
There are rings of fire
There are hearts on fire
There are desert, grass and bush fires
Burning with a red hot rage on a different stage
They burn and mature that one can only admire
O! Fire O! Fire
My heart is on fire
Inside my soul a little flame has transpired
Have my words mis-fired while I speak of fire?
Fire burns like a scorching red-hot sun
And when fire burns its impact is sometimes no fun
Fire burns! Fire burns!
People die, people cry, people sigh
Fire run, run and run
Let's take turns to run before we turn into a bun
When you play with fire your hands will burn
When you lay with fire, heads will surely turn
Fire burns! Fire burns!
A hand pulls a gun and fires
A man goes to work and gets fired
And while I tire, I ask myself am I a liar?
For I speak of the uncontrollable forest fires
That cannot be announced by any town crier
A little spark
A brittle panic attack
A burning flame
A red-hot blaze
In seconds fire can take out an entire space
Fire burns! Fire burns!
And while the fire transpires
I can see the fire in your eyes
A hot passionate desire that flies and flies
And the fire burns and burns
Run, run and run for heads will turn
And the heat will rise like the scorching sun
Fire burns! Fire burns!
I ask silently for a ceasefire
For fire only ignites to inspire more misery
And out of that misery are born some high fliers
Run, run and run for heads will turn
And whatever burns can never be undone
Fire, fire
Tuesday, July 24,2018
5: 24 PM
Nature has turned cruel
nothing is going well
there is a forest fire
and everything is on fire
it is destroying
everything that is falling on the way
houses, animals, and forestry
the curse has befallen from an almighty
we are devastated
nothing is rested
everything is burnt
we need to bear the brunt
here shall stop it?
we face worst
God save the country
save the people and everybody
Hasmukh Amathalal Mehta
From
Fire, fire,
Fire, fight with the fire.
I am fire
You are fire,
Fight with the fire
And take care.
Fire harbor doubts
Fire hamper growth,
Fire is my illness,
Fire is sap my
Life force and wisdom.
Fire, fire,
Fire is both inside
And fire is also outside.
Fire is my own doubts,
My own uncertainty
And my own confusion.
Let me overtake my fire,
Let me fight with this fire
Within first.
FIRE which gives us light
FIRE which is used for cooking
FIRE which makes hot environment when it is cool
FIRE which is used for Yagna
FIRE which makes to welding metals
FIRE which makes you to achieve your goal
so,
The FIRE which is used for good cause
other wise
Fire which makes you as ash
Pyro, Fuego, Fire,
It’s a power, a strength,
A source of light,
Luminescent as solar energy,
Incandescent as moonbeams,
Luminosity of stars
Effulgence of blue heavens
It kindles, ignites vivid minds,
Imaginations, carnival brilliance,
Illuminates the world, the universe,
In the beginning a friend,
It leads, guides your way,
Makes you  warm, live, survive, yet
In the end, if abuse, left alone,
Becomes a monster, a destroyer,
Murderer, a spoiler it is,
Instill fear in you, the phobia overrule us,
Soon the cosmos, the macrocosm,
Solar, lunar, mankind to ashes,
Lustrous existence gone,
All in darkness, inky black
Empty space, serenity, tranquility but then,
The essence is nothing without -
Fire! Fire! Fire!
And only where the forest fires have sped,
Scorching relentlessly the cool north lands,
A sweet wild flower lifts its purple head,
And, like some gentle spirit sorrow-fed,
It hides the scars with almost human hands.
And only to the heart that knows of grief,
Of desolating fire, of human pain,
There comes some purifying sweet belief,
Some fellow-feeling beautiful, if brief.
And life revives, and blossoms once again
Like a long arrow through the dark the train is darting,
Bearing me far away, after a perfect day of love's delight:
Wakeful with all the sad-sweet memories of parting,
I lift the narrow window-shade and look out on the night.
Lonely the land unknown, and like a river flowing,
Forest and field and hill are gliding backward still athwart my dream;
Till in that country strange, and ever stranger growing,
A magic city full of lights begins to glow and gleam.
Wide through the landscape dim the lamps are lit in millions;
Long avenues unfold clear-shining lines of gold across the green;
Clusters and rings of light, and luminous pavilions, --
Oh, who will tell the city's name, and what these wonders mean?
Why do they beckon me, and what have they to show me?
Crowds in the blazing street, mirth where the feasters meet, kisses and wine:
Many to laugh with me, but never one to know me:
A cityful of stranger-hearts and none to beat with mine!
Look how the glittering lines are wavering and lifting, --
Softly the breeze of night, scatters the vision bright: and, passing fair,
Over the meadow-grass and through the forest drifting,
The Fire-Fly City of the Dark is lost in empty air!
Girl of the golden eyes, to you my heart is turning:
Sleep in your quiet room, while through the midnight gloom my train is whirled.
Clear in your dreams of me the light of love is burning, --
The only never failing light in all the phantom world.
Fire, I am fire
In this summer
I am your digestion
Fire, I am fire
I join with air
My indoor and
Outdoor game
Is in truth and fair.
I am the creator who cannot find
The soul in which I burn
A witch of fire, frozen in ice
Freedom is a flight I yearn
Cold and numb, asleep
Yet my eyes are open wide
A cast of iron prison through which
My inner light resides
I yearn to be awakened.
My fire to melt this icy brocade
I yearn for reckless oblivion
My facade has been self-made
A river made of loneliness
My soul has been branded numb
A leave from absolute sadness
I seek the blue-eyed one
From underneath the frozen smile,
My heart melts to silently cry.
The burning emotions from the days
When these embers were all ablaze,
Now rekindled by the fire in your eyes,
They burn with revenge for all the times
Every eye coldly looked the other way.
Brutally wasted, they left me where I lay.
Slowly I could feel the chill in my spine
Spread more and more each and every time
The cold blind stares refused to see
The horror and pain they unleashed on me.
Had to learn to become fiercer than ice,
Colder than their coldest vice.
Had to learn to welcome with frozen smiles
All those I met as I walked the miles.
Not many bothered to stop and hold,
To seek the fire beyond the wall ice-cold.
Those who cared to stay found their place
In my heart and it’s warm embrace.
The glow of embers behind the icy wall
Beckons you as it shouts it's call,
“Break the Wall! ” it pleads to your glowing gaze
Come into my world; make your place to stay.
Fire in the heavens, and fire along the hills,
and fire made solid in the flinty stone,
thick-mass'd or scatter'd pebble, fire that fills
the breathless hour that lives in fire alone.
This valley, long ago the patient bed
of floods that carv'd its antient amplitude,
in stillness of the Egyptian crypt outspread,
endures to drown in noon-day's tyrant mood.
Behind the veil of burning silence bound,
vast life's innumerous busy littleness
is hush'd in vague-conjectured blur of sound
that dulls the brain with slumbrous weight, unless
some dazzling puncture let the stridence throng
in the cicada's torture-point of song.
Like fire in the sky it is
When the sun sets in the night
Red and yellow engulf the world
In a vivid and glorious sight
It’s seems so unexplainable
How the sky lights up this way
I can’t think of a more perfect
Way to end the day
Sometimes purple adds itself
To the colors up above
A fever in the sky it seems
Or God showing His thoughtful love
Whatever is the reason
We enjoy the sights so much
When the sun drops from the sky
And leaves its brilliant touch!
Turning you hold your arms up
My eyes touch where you turn
The shouts from the fire line crew
And the collapsing column of smoke
The shape of your look
As you turn again
Nearly trapped by the fire
Overrunning the west side road
We run the escape route
I hold your face to me
Always where you are
Golden orangish flames
Hinted with a hue of blue
Circling round hardened wood
Consuming the outer
Streaking through the grain
Down to its very core
Strange.. the comparison to love
How it begins with a spark
Then a glowing consuming feeling
Circling round the outer till it reaches the very core of the soul
As it streaks through the body then reaching the heart
Fire and love different as night is to day
But none the less….
Both consume and may warm a being
Or leave one with nothing but ashes
The deer were bounding like blown leaves
Under the smoke in front the roaring wave of the brush-fire;
I thought of the smaller lives that were caught.
Beauty is not always lovely; the fire was beautiful, the terror
Of the deer was beautiful; and when I returned
Down the back slopes after the fire had gone by, an eagle
Was perched on the jag of a burnt pine,
Insolent and gorged, cloaked in the folded storms of his shoulders
He had come from far off for the good hunting
With fire for his beater to drive the game; the sky was merciless
Blue, and the hills merciless black,
The sombre-feathered great bird sleepily merciless between them.
I thought, painfully, but the whole mind,
The destruction that brings an eagle from heaven is better than mercy.
In the west there is fearsome fire in the hills.
Full of dread, the people watch as flames burn upon the ridge.
Fierce winds fan the fury where the fires singe.
Meanwhile there’s hot air blasting forth from high upon the hill,
Pointless wind aimed at stirring some futile acts of men.
Strong winds fan the flames.
Embers ignite the blaze again.
While homes are lost across the land,
A burning night gives way to the dawn of restless men.
Rhetoric fails to charm while flames move across the land.
Fires burn readily across dry mountaintops.
Drought’s danger seeps down the slopes.
Now the valley too is brown and the pastures parched.
Wherever stray embers fall, fires will catch and burn
Until nowhere can they be stopped.
Will anything escape the flames fanned by these raging relentless winds?
The firemen grow weary,
They know neither sleep nor rest.
All their wisdom and efforts fail to meet the fires growing test.
They seek the help of younger men to aid them in the night,
But none can hear or heed the call; they are ensnared in some other fight.
The chief in command stands out of touch safe on the distant hill.
Insulated from the desperate fight, no fires will he end.
People in the valley see him perched emotionless and still.
If he even has a plan from this distance they can’t tell.
They fear for the safety of those who fight and for their own as well.
They fear the loss of all they love and treasure beyond price.
The fields once waved golden and valleys were lush with finest fruits.
The harvest, which they toiled toward, is in peril of being lost.
Will fires claim the victory and devour all they cherish?
Or will they rise against the blaze, fighting fire with fire, before they perish?
Through night a western ridge stays lit, while across this land no one dare now rest.
I will read ashes for you, if you ask me.
I will look on the fire and tell you from the gray lashes
And out of the red and black tongues and stripes,
I will tell how fire comes
And how fire runs far as the sea.
Probably I am an ordinary middle-class
believer in individual rights, the word
"freedom" is simple to me, it doesn't mean
the freedom of any class in particular.
Politically naive, with an average
education (brief moments of clear vision
are its main nourishment), I remember
the blazing appeal of that fire which parches
the lips of the thirsty crowd and burns
books and chars the skin of cities. I used to sing
those songs and I know how great it is
to run with others; later, by myself,
with the taste of ashes in my mouth, I heard
the lie's ironic voice and the choir screaming
and when I touched my head I could feel
the arched skull of my country, its hard edge.
Translated by Renata Gorczynski
A Searing Flame
It Hides My Shame
The Pain It Melts Away
An Orange Glow
Softens The Blow
Of Memories Deep Inside
The Warmth And Light
Pirce The Night
And Drive Away My Fear
The Defening Roar
Heals The Sore
Of Pain Once Pushed Away
This life that we call our own
Is neither strong nor free;
A flame in the wind of death,
It trembles ceaselessly.
And this all we can do
To use our little light
Before, in the piercing wind,
It flickers into night:
To yield the heat of the flame,
To grudge not, but to give
Whatever we have of strength,
That one more flame may live.
fire
Wood  fire  wrapped
With  smoke
Life  fire
With  skin.
The flame crackles,
Spitting shinning sparks
And ashes and fire
Into the warming air.
It’s always fighting,
It’s Always changing,
Seems always so close
To life.
To it’s burning,
But beyond it’s brilliance
The fire defies, denies
And defeats it’s death.
Patience, I believe,
Is learned in the view.
Because with strength and defiance,
The coals burn anew.
Your nakedness
encounters my nakedness
the moonlight
falls from your shoulders
as I dress you
in kisses...caresses
cover your flesh
with the flesh of my flesh
until we no longer are
aware which flesh is ours
translated as we are
beyond the bounds
of our
desire
fire
set on
fire!
Motto and craze
'fire with fire' is no answer
You need to sprinkle water
Get all the options to stop destruction
It shall put off immediately with timely prevention
It is mere an example
Faced by all people
Fire may be raging in our mind
But solution is only an answer to find
Not force with force
Or action with reaction
But response with calmness
And smile always on face
This can create different situation
Peace shall find its continuation
Love shall rule and hate shall disappear
People may have no fear
We are all human brings
And can bring
Situation to normal stage
This should be our motto and craze
White silken thighs,
Legs sprawled on the floor
While sitting backwards
Waiting for your love……
I wear my black bikinis,
Great seduction -
A delightful foreplay
I came to prepare.
O honey! Come to me.
Please touch me……
Please me……….hot and wild
Bring me to ecstasy land.
Don’t stop – addicted to survive!
Frame us both to fulfill our desires.
Tame my burning passion,
Let’s play the game of love.
Fire within fire……….
Sweat to sweat…….
Boiling the waters inside
As sweet juices and lava flows,
From the nectars of love………..
09-18-09
Whizzing and banging
The Fire Roars
All the people come out...of there little doors
They watch the fountains much ablaze
This is such a very good display
but now it's time for bed
all snug and warm
But the fires still going
At the crack of dawn
Since the day that the lord set me on fire
i have had a desire to acquire the knowledge of my messiah,
Whatever u desire, Dont retire
Aspire to Acquire the desire u admire
If u perspire
u wont retire.
When the enemies conspire to fire your desire,
dont tire,
remember your mesiah
the one who speaks fire
He has clothed you with his attire,
and has given you his entire empire,
that if you refire you will acquire,
this is not time to expire,
With Jesus your mesiah,
the devil's fire will backfire,
Desire the holyfire,
Become a carrier of the holyghost fire,
Our God the unmpire will never retire
He will always refire, he will never expire,
he will always inquire
his power is forever,
So u have all u require my friend,
to acquire your long admired desire,
this is all u require,
stay on fire.
28/June/2007
As I am honored with grace impassionate
that dazzles in me and my innate grin
glamoured by setting rays in the sky
along the white clouds as cohered.
that boost me up like waves
in the sea with all its blues
when being cuddled in the spring
the lap of tranquil as in moon.
when the clouds moves apart above
it is the sun yet steeped in blood
promising of the love as prologued
as twilight descends slowly
i do remember the thrills of passion
as revered by  the bliss of love
when reckoning to the flames of fire.
Tell me which fight do you fight deep in you
My body shakes in waves of pain you feel
I see your fear is too dark to look through
No moon can help when I want you to heal
I say no words for fear that they can’t help
While seeds on fire burn the future wood
Though all I wish for is to make walls melt
While cries in silence doubt what I found good
Please trust me for just that I just trust you
Please fight the fear and show to me your face
There is this world but you and I are too
Don't be a rose hidén behind a vase
Oh please be brave to speak to me now true
Whatever happens I will still love you
some money I was desperately needing
gambling debts paid or I'd soon be bleeding
my bar was already deep in the red
'youse got insurance? ', the mob guy said
'dis dump you could combust
but get an alibi - dat is a must'
Hmm.. 'arsonist' ain't in the phone book -
so around my bar, I took a look
found some hot-headed guy with a thing for crime
but he couldn't start anything on time
He smelled like gas, dressed like a slob
Was always smoking on the job
he demanded up front, all of his cash
then sat around on his ash
always had his face in a cup
his work ethic just burned me up
five nights now with no ignite
I was smoldering mad, it just wasn't right
I finally had to re-cinder the deal
he wasn't a match for the job, I feel
My love is like to ice, and I to fire:
How comes it then that this her cold so great
Is not dissolved through my so hot desire,
But harder grows the more I her entreat?
Or how comes it that my exceeding heat
Is not allayed by her heart-frozen cold,
But that I burn much more in boiling sweat,
And feel my flames augmented manifold?
What more miraculous thing may be told,
That fire, which all things melts, should harden ice,
And ice, which is congeal'd with senseless cold,
Should kindle fire by wonderful device?
Such is the power of love in gentle mind,
That it can alter all the course of kind.
218
I have a fire for you in my mouth, but I have a hundred seals
on my tongue.
The flames which I have in my heart would make one mouth-
ful of both worlds.
Though the entire world should pass away, without the world
I possess the kingdom of a hundred worlds.
Caravans which are loaded with sugar I have in motion for
the Egypt of nonexistence.
The drunkenness of love makes me unaware whether I have
profit of loss therefrom.
The body’s eye was scattering pearls because of love, till now
I have a pearl-scattering soul.
I am not housebound, for like Jesus I have a home in the fourth
Heaven.
Thanks be to Him who gives soul to the body; if the soul
should depart, yet I have the soul of the soul.
Seek from me that which Shams-e Tabrizi has bestowed, for
I have the same.
'Tis a fine Lady..,
I was connected too
Her words of poetry
Cut me right through
'Tis the Lady I chance
Cross a very thin line
Her sway of romance
melts my frozen heart..
Somehow, someway I am drawn to verse
It pulls me closer
absorbing my very soul
consuming my very being
Strangers...
though her words taught my mind
with an unspeakable desire..
for her golden hand I wish to hold
She is the ink
I long to be the paper
Oh write your words of passion
Upon my needing heart........
A fine Lady full of passion
Fulfilling the needs of my want
Ink meets paper, my world a fire
She..the Lady...Fills my desire..
Such Princess of passionate dream
Golden hand upon my cheek
such sweet gentle touch
Makes my soul so speak.....
I carry pride like a disease, you know I'm Stubborn
and I'm longing to be close!
I fell desperate without vision,
you wrap around me like a winter Coat.
you've come and burned me with a kiss
and my heart for you! Every single breath you search
much deeper within my through the way things appear!
You looking up to my heart.
We share dream's
we join the Angels in Celebration
and by faith we speak revival, give us an open heaven
and anoint our prayers this day revive our heart.
Light your fire on Us! that's our request today!
It appears as a quiet understanding
trust, sharing and forgiving
Love remains loyal through good and bad
it settles for less than perfection
and makes allowances for human weakness
Love feels content with the present
it hopes for the future
it doesn't brood over the past
Love includes the day in day of chronicle
of irrations, problems and compromises
the small disappointmets, big victories and common goals
If you have love in your life
it can make up for a great many things you be
If you don't have it
no matter what else you have
it never feels enough.
Heavens on fire as the last day burns out the sky,
Setting the world with an eerie orange glow,
Streaked through with pinks and reds,
Stealing the breath of those below,
I wish i could steal your breath in another way,
Passion,
Lust,
Desire,
driving me on,
on to the moment...
You can feel it,
tingle in your lips,
to your fingers,
down to your toes,
Electric like your bodys never known,
If i touched you now,
I could see it,
Leap between skin,
Hand on your shoulder,
my breath in your ear,
the fire is in me,
a romantic desire that ill never let die,
The question is,
with the air alight,
& the moment forever close,
What do you Desire?
I have been lonely before.
Listing between friends.
Going through the motions again and again.
Adding the moments together,
like salty drops of tears in a bitter pool.
Living a life of tepid comfort.
Without passion, fire, flame.
Like a man in a cold room
Warm and wrapped in a blanket
Comfortable, but longing for fire
For the feeling of heat on his back
With his shoulder naked
And his eyes closed
This is how I see you.
You are the fire.
You are the warm glowing embers.
The black and red hot coals
And the blue fire licking the edges
I have been lonely before.
If only I had the courage to open my eyes
You would be my fire.
http: //www.lostinmydream.blogspot.com
Oh day of fire and sun,
Pure as a naked flame,
Blue sea, blue sky and dun
Sands where he spoke my name;
Laughter and hearts so high
That the spirit flew off free,
Lifting into the sky
Diving into the sea;
Oh day of fire and sun
Like a crystal burning,
Slow days go one by one,
But you have no returning.
Faire Chloris, standing by the Fire,
An amorous coale with hot desire
Leapt on her breast, but could not melt
The chaste snow there--which when it felt
For shame it blusht; and then it died
There where resistance did abide,
And lest she should take it unkind
Repentant ashes left behind.
My heart was started by a spark,
burst into flames.
Now I am like a lamp on a hill,
everyone sees me and my passion.
I'm on fire, I'm burning bright.
You made the spark,
kindled the flame,
gave this fire the passion of the night.
Its burning bright, through the night,
its never going out or dimming.
Its the passion of the fire,
its the passion of life.
The life you gave,
was meant to amaze.
Now with you in me,
I illuminate the darkness.
I'm on fire,
running with the flame, the passion
touching people,
letting them catch the fire, catch your Love.
It never fades away,
this passion deep in me,
it'll burn till the end of day.
Fire:
When the water turns to mist
And the flames are rising high
I'll appear to you my darling
To wipe the tears from your eyes
I'll dance around the fire pit
Running wild with the flames
But as soon as the fire is out
I'll leave you without so much as my name
Water:
When water extinguishes the flame
It will also extinguish me
I will leave you to yourself
To soak in memory
When the land is watered down
And you stand beside the sea
Look for the bonfires
For that is where you'll find me
Burned:
Don't play with fire dearest
You know you will be burned
Leave the flames to me my love
They remind me of how I've yearned
For the sensation of my fire
That keeps our passions hot
I'll stay with you until the tide comes in
But after, I cannot
Drowned:
They douse the flames with water
Putting out the light
I drown with the flames
That ensnared you all night
I cannot stay with you now
My flames have been drowned out
But remember whenever you need me
Fire will bring me about
Sitting by the fire,
Warming up my toes,
Last year is over,
But a new year has come
Packed with lots of things,
Sleeping at night,
Staring up at the ceiling.
Waking up at the morning
Streching my armes out wide,
It's so nice waking up to a new day.
Lots of adventures on their way! ! !
The other two, slight air and purging fire,
Are both with thee, wherever I abide;
The first my thought, the other my desire,
These present-absent with swift motion slide.
For when these quicker elements are gone
In tender embassy of love to thee,
My life, being made of four, with two alone
Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy;
Until life's composition be recured
By those swift messengers returned from thee,
Who even but now come back again, assured
Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.
This told, I joy; but then no longer glad,
I send them back again and straight grow sad.
What gory deaths by fire, we see today!
Gone is ‘sati’ but brides burn still by stove;
In accidents too, people die this way;
Self-immolate, some people out of love!
Air-crash victims get burnt like wood and hay;
Bomb-blasts produces smell of burning flesh;
Bus burns with men in pugilistic way!
And nuclear accidents too happen fresh.
A cracker-unit burns its children down;
A Temple-fire engulfs so many souls;
Some men are dowsed, lit live in a big town;
Fire-extinguishers have but scarcer roles.
’Tis strange to see why people burn alive!
What kind of pleasure, Satans such derive?
The boy with fire in his eyes
Stands there waiting.
It is his soul inside;
It keeps him standing.
And if ever the fire goes out,
He will freeze in the cold.
It is his heat
And all that  keeps him living.
Or if it never is put to use,
It will consume him;
He will burn to the ground
His ashes left behind.
But if the fire blazes,
If kindled, kept and carried,
If the boy with fire in his eyes
Finds life inside that fire,
His fire will light the world,
Will pierce the mist,
A fire to drive the dark away
Forever and ever more.
'Twas in the year of 1898, and on the 8th of June,
A mother and six children met with a cruel doom
In one of the most fearful fires for some years past
And as the spectators gazed upon them they stood aghast
The fire broke out in a hairdresser's, in the town of Scarborough,
And as the fire spread it filled the people's hearts with sorrow;
But the police and the fire brigade were soon on the ground,
Then the hose and reel were quickly sent round.
Oh! it was horrible to see the flames leaping up all around,
While amongst the spectators the silence was profound,
As they saw a men climb out to the parapet high,
Resolved to save his life, or in the attempt to die!
And he gave one half frantic leap, with his heart full of woe,
And came down upon the roof of a public-house 20 feet below;
But, alas! he slipped and fell through the skylight,
And received cuts and bruises: oh, what a horrible sight!
He was the tenant of the premises, Mr Brookes,
And for his wife and family he enquires, with anxious looks,
But no one could tell him, it did appear,
And when told so adown his cheeks flowed many a tear.
He had been sleeping by himself on the second floor,
When suddenly alarmed, he thought he'd make sure,
And try to escape from the burning pile with his life,
And try and save his family and his wife.
The fire brigade played on the first door with greet speed,
But the flames had very inflammable fuel upon which to feed,
So that the fire spread with awful rapidity,
And in twenty minutes the building was doomed to the fourth storey.
The firemen wrought with might and main,
But still the fire did on them gain,
That it was two hours before they could reach the second floor,
The heat being so intense they could scarcely it endure.
And inside all the time a woman and six children were there,
And when the firemen saw them, in amazement they did stare;
The sight that met their eyes made them for to start
Oh, Heaven! the sight was sufficient to rend the strongest heart.
For there was Mrs Brookes stretched dead on the floor,
Who had fallen in trying her escape for to procure.
She was lying with one arm over her ten months old child,
And her cries for help, no doubt, were frantic and wild;
And part of her arm was burned off as it lay above
The child she was trying to shield, which shows a mother's love.
For the baby's flesh was partly uninjured by the flames,
Which shows that the loving mother had endured great pains;
It, however, met its death by suffocation,
And as the spectators gazed thereon, it filled their hearts with consternation.
The firemen acted heroicallv, without any dread,
And when they entered the back premises they found the six children dead;
But Mr Brookes, 'tis said, is still alive,
And I hope for many years he will survive.
Oh, Heaven! it is cruel to perish by fire,
Therefore let us be watchful before to our beds we retire,
And see that everything is in safe order before we fall asleep,
And pray that God o'er us in the night watch will keep.
The squatter saw his pastures wide
Decrease, as one by one
The farmers moving to the west
Selected on his run;
Selectors took the water up
And all the black soil round;
The best grass-land the squatter had
Was spoilt by Ross's Ground.
Now many schemes to shift old Ross
Had racked the squatter's brains,
But Sandy had the stubborn blood
Of Scotland in his veins;
He held the land and fenced it in,
He cleared and ploughed the soil,
And year by year a richer crop
Repaid him for his toil.
Between the homes for many years
The devil left his tracks:
The squatter pounded Ross's stock,
And Sandy pounded Black's.
A well upon the lower run
Was filled with earth and logs,
And Black laid baits about the farm
To poison Ross's dogs.
It was, indeed, a deadly feud
Of class and creed and race;
But, yet, there was a Romeo
And a Juliet in the case;
And more than once across the flats,
Beneath the Southern Cross,
Young Robert Black was seen to ride
With pretty Jenny Ross.
One Christmas time, when months of drought
Had parched the western creeks,
The bush-fires started in the north
And travelled south for weeks.
At night along the river-side
The scene was grand and strange --
The hill-fires looked like lighted streets
Of cities in the range.
The cattle-tracks between the trees
Were like long dusky aisles,
And on a sudden breeze the fire
Would sweep along for miles;
Like sounds of distant musketry
It crackled through the brakes,
And o'er the flat of silver grass
It hissed like angry snakes.
It leapt across the flowing streams
And raced o'er pastures broad;
It climbed the trees and lit the boughs
And through the scrubs it roared.
The bees fell stifled in the smoke
Or perished in their hives,
And with the stock the kangaroos
Went flying for their lives.
The sun had set on Christmas Eve,
When, through the scrub-lands wide,
Young Robert Black came riding home
As only natives ride.
He galloped to the homestead door
And gave the first alarm:
`The fire is past the granite spur,
`And close to Ross's farm.'
`Now, father, send the men at once,
They won't be wanted here;
Poor Ross's wheat is all he has
To pull him through the year.'
`Then let it burn,' the squatter said;
`I'd like to see it done --
I'd bless the fire if it would clear
Selectors from the run.
`Go if you will,' the squatter said,
`You shall not take the men --
Go out and join your precious friends,
And don't come here again.'
`I won't come back,' young Robert cried,
And, reckless in his ire,
He sharply turned his horse's head
And galloped towards the fire.
And there, for three long weary hours,
Half-blind with smoke and heat,
Old Ross and Robert fought the flames
That neared the ripened wheat.
The farmer's hand was nerved by fears
Of danger and of loss;
And Robert fought the stubborn foe
For the love of Jenny Ross.
But serpent-like the curves and lines
Slipped past them, and between,
Until they reached the bound'ry where
The old coach-road had been.
`The track is now our only hope,
There we must stand,' cried Ross,
`For nought on earth can stop the fire
If once it gets across.'
Then came a cruel gust of wind,
And, with a fiendish rush,
The flames leapt o'er the narrow path
And lit the fence of brush.
`The crop must burn!' the farmer cried,
`We cannot save it now,'
And down upon the blackened ground
He dashed the ragged bough.
But wildly, in a rush of hope,
His heart began to beat,
For o'er the crackling fire he heard
The sound of horses' feet.
`Here's help at last,' young Robert cried,
And even as he spoke
The squatter with a dozen men
Came racing through the smoke.
Down on the ground the stockmen jumped
And bared each brawny arm,
They tore green branches from the trees
And fought for Ross's farm;
And when before the gallant band
The beaten flames gave way,
Two grimy hands in friendship joined --
And it was Christmas Day.
They had long met o' Zundays--her true love and she--
And at junketings, maypoles, and flings;
But she bode wi' a thirtover uncle, and he
Swore by noon and by night that her goodman should be
Naibor Sweatley--a gaffer oft weak at the knee
From taking o' sommat more cheerful than tea--
Who tranted, and moved people's things.
She cried, "O pray pity me!" Nought would he hear;
Then with wild rainy eyes she obeyed,
She chid when her Love was for clinking off wi' her.
The pa'son was told, as the season drew near
To throw over pu'pit the names of the peäir
As fitting one flesh to be made.
The wedding-day dawned and the morning drew on;
The couple stood bridegroom and bride;
The evening was passed, and when midnight had gone
The folks horned out, "God save the King," and anon
The two home-along gloomily hied.
The lover Tim Tankens mourned heart-sick and drear
To be thus of his darling deprived:
He roamed in the dark ath'art field, mound, and mere,
And, a'most without knowing it, found himself near
The house of the tranter, and now of his Dear,
Where the lantern-light showed 'em arrived.
The bride sought her cham'er so calm and so pale
That a Northern had thought her resigned;
But to eyes that had seen her in tide-times of weal,
Like the white cloud o' smoke, the red battlefield's vail,
That look spak' of havoc behind.
The bridegroom yet laitered a beaker to drain,
Then reeled to the linhay for more,
When the candle-snoff kindled some chaff from his grain--
Flames spread, and red vlankers, wi' might and wi' main,
And round beams, thatch, and chimley-tun roar.
Young Tim away yond, rafted up by the light,
Through brimble and underwood tears,
Till he comes to the orchet, when crooping thereright
In the lewth of a codlin-tree, bivering wi' fright,
Wi' on'y her night-rail to screen her from sight,
His lonesome young Barbree appears.
Her cwold little figure half-naked he views
Played about by the frolicsome breeze,
Her light-tripping totties, her ten little tooes,
All bare and besprinkled wi' Fall's chilly dews,
While her great gallied eyes, through her hair hanging loose,
Sheened as stars through a tardle o' trees.
She eyed en; and, as when a weir-hatch is drawn,
Her tears, penned by terror afore,
With a rushing of sobs in a shower were strawn,
Till her power to pour 'em seemed wasted and gone
From the heft o' misfortune she bore.
"O Tim, my own Tim I must call 'ee--I will!
All the world ha' turned round on me so!
Can you help her who loved 'ee, though acting so ill?
Can you pity her misery--feel for her still?
When worse than her body so quivering and chill
Is her heart in its winter o' woe!
"I think I mid almost ha' borne it," she said,
"Had my griefs one by one come to hand;
But O, to be slave to thik husbird for bread,
And then, upon top o' that, driven to wed,
And then, upon top o' that, burnt out o' bed,
Is more than my nater can stand!"
Tim's soul like a lion 'ithin en outsprung--
(Tim had a great soul when his feelings were wrung)--
"Feel for 'ee, dear Barbree?" he cried;
And his warm working-jacket about her he flung,
Made a back, horsed her up, till behind him she clung
Like a chiel on a gipsy, her figure uphung
By the sleeves that around her he tied.
Over piggeries, and mixens, and apples, and hay,
They lumpered straight into the night;
And finding bylong where a halter-path lay,
At dawn reached Tim's house, on'y seen on their way
By a naibor or two who were up wi' the day;
But they gathered no clue to the sight.
Then tender Tim Tankens he searched here and there
For some garment to clothe her fair skin;
But though he had breeches and waistcoats to spare,
He had nothing quite seemly for Barbree to wear,
Who, half shrammed to death, stood and cried on a chair
At the caddle she found herself in.
There was one thing to do, and that one thing he did,
He lent her some clouts of his own,
And she took 'em perforce; and while in 'em she slid,
Tim turned to the winder, as modesty bid,
Thinking, "O that the picter my duty keeps hid
To the sight o' my eyes mid be shown!"
In the tallet he stowed her; there huddied she lay,
Shortening sleeves, legs, and tails to her limbs;
But most o' the time in a mortal bad way,
Well knowing that there'd be the divel to pay
If 'twere found that, instead o' the elements' prey,
She was living in lodgings at Tim's.
"Where's the tranter?" said men and boys; "where can er be?"
"Where's the tranter?" said Barbree alone.
"Where on e'th is the tranter?" said everybod-y:
They sifted the dust of his perished roof-tree,
And all they could find was a bone.
Then the uncle cried, "Lord, pray have mercy on me!"
And in terror began to repent.
But before 'twas complete, and till sure she was free,
Barbree drew up her loft-ladder, tight turned her key--
Tim bringing up breakfast and dinner and tea--
Till the news of her hiding got vent.
Then followed the custom-kept rout, shout, and flare
Of a skimmington-ride through the naiborhood, ere
Folk had proof o' wold Sweatley's decay.
Whereupon decent people all stood in a stare,
Saying Tim and his lodger should risk it, and pair:
So he took her to church. An' some laughing lads there
Cried to Tim, "After Sweatley!" She said, "I declare
I stand as a maiden to-day!"
One, two, three--hark, hark, boys!
One, two, three, four!
The fire-bells are ringing, this wild wintry night;
They ask aid from District Thirty-four,
There somebody's riches are now taking flight;
On flame-wings away, away they soar.
But hark!
With shriek and wail,
How raves the gale!
Like demon steeds it speeds--
like galloping gangs from Pandemonium hurl'd.
Yes, firemen, take courage! did valiant deeds avail,
Then you were the victors of the world.
Ring the bells again!
Wake the electric wire!
And flash abroad the warning words--
"FIRE! FIRE!"
God save the city! for man's devices fail
When fierce flames with wintry winds conspire,
But hark!
With shriek and wail (With shriek and wail!)
How raves the gale! (How raves the gale!)
Like demon steeds it speeds--
like galloping gangs from Pandemonium hurl'd.
Yes, firemen, take courage! did valiant deeds avail,
Then your were the victors of the world.
One, two, three--hark, hark, boys!
One, two, three, four!
The fire-bells are ringing, an urgent appeal;
The engines go dashing by the door,
All safe here, children, no fear need we feel;
But God help in District Thirty-four,
What's that?
Look there! look there!
A lurid glare
Lights up the sky--aye, aye!
and columns of red, devouring flame appear.
And see! for departure our neighbors prepare;
Perchance there is danger even here.
One, two, three--hark, hark, boys!
One, two, three, four!
The fire-bells are ringing, a last grand alarm;
How vast must the conflagration be!
Our own roof is blazing! yet where, free from harm,
Oh! where shall we our treasures flee?
Let's haste!
'Twill fall! 'Twill fall--
That granite wall;
I see it crumbling, tumbling!
Fly for your lives, from out this fiery grave!
Laid low, crush'd, buried are some beyond recall;
But thank God! my little flock I save.
DEVEREUX FARM, NEAR MARBLEHEAD.
We sat within the farm-house old,
Whose windows, looking o'er the bay,
Gave to the sea-breeze damp and cold,
An easy entrance, night and day.
Not far away we saw the port,
The strange, old-fashioned, silent town,
The lighthouse, the dismantled fort,
The wooden houses, quaint and brown.
We sat and talked until the night,
Descending, filled the little room;
Our faces faded from the sight,
Our voices only broke the gloom.
We spake of many a vanished scene,
Of what we once had thought and said,
Of what had been, and might have been,
And who was changed, and who was dead;
And all that fills the hearts of friends,
When first they feel, with secret pain,
Their lives thenceforth have separate ends,
And never can be one again;
The first slight swerving of the heart,
That words are powerless to express,
And leave it still unsaid in part,
Or say it in too great excess.
The very tones in which we spake
Had something strange, I could but mark;
The leaves of memory seemed to make
A mournful rustling in the dark.
Oft died the words upon our lips,
As suddenly, from out the fire
Built of the wreck of stranded ships,
The flames would leap and then expire.
And, as their splendor flashed and failed,
We thought of wrecks upon the main,
Of ships dismasted, that were hailed
And sent no answer back again.
The windows, rattling in their frames,
The ocean, roaring up the beach,
The gusty blast, the bickering flames,
All mingled vaguely in our speech;
Until they made themselves a part
Of fancies floating through the brain,
The long-lost ventures of the heart,
That send no answers back again.
O flames that glowed! O hearts that yearned!
They were indeed too much akin,
The drift-wood fire without that burned,
The thoughts that burned and glowed within.
every day they feed the fire
the fire inside of me
that will burn my soul
and i will die
b/c they fed the fire
they call me names
mock me
and worse of all
make fun of my freinds
when they do this
the fire grows
burning my insides
starting with my toes
it gets bigger
then goes to my liver stomoch and lungs
then finally my heart
then im gone
some will cry and feel bad
some will laugh and say im psycho
the ones that laugh
will move on
and build a fire
an kill someone else
2-21-05
the fire,
i love it,
the way it dances,
out of control leaping,
into the air it's,
so beautiful,
the way it dances,
the way the sparks,
fly up high and,
the flame shows me,
the past,
the future,
and what might have been,
the cracking of a,
new twig in the fire,
the jumping,
the dancing,
the leaping,
the uncontrollable flame,
when it dies,
so does my spirit.
Fire never dies, just smoulders,
like love you need to fan it,
to keep the flame alive.
Like the smouldering embers,
that needs only a little attention,
to become a flame again.
So the parting lovers,
need only to kiss to ignite the flame,
and start the passion again.
The fire that filled my heart of old
Gave luster while it burned;
Now only ashes gray and cold
Are in its silence urned.
Ah! better was the furious flame,
The splendor with the smart;
I never cared for the singer's fame
But, oh! for the singer's heart
Once more--
The burning fulgent heart!
No love, no hate, no hope, no fear,
No anguish and no mirth;
Thus life extends from year to year,
A flat of sullen dearth.
Ah! life's blood creepeth cold and tame,
Life's thought plays no new part;
I never cared for the singer's fame,
But, oh! for the singer's heart
Once more--
The bleeding passionate heart!
The great Chicago Fire, friends,
Will never be forgot;
In the history of Chicago
It will remain a darken spot.
It was a dreadful horrid sight
To see that City in flames;
But no human aid could save it,
For all skill was tried in vain.
In the year of 1871,
In October on the 8th,
The people in that City, then
Was full of life, and great.
Less than four days it lay in ruins,
That garden City, so great
Lay smouldering in ashes,
In a sad and pitiful state.
It was a sad, sad scene indeed,
To see the fire arise,
And hear the crackling of the flames
As it almost reached the skies,
And sadder still, to hear the moans,
Of people in the flames
Cry for help, and none could get,
Ah, die where they remained.
To see the people run for life;
Up and down the blazing streets,
To find then, their escape cut off
By the fiery flaming sheets,
And others hunting for some friend
That perhaps they never found,
Such weeping, wailing, never was known,
For a thousands miles around.
Some people were very wealthy
On the morning of the 10th.
But at the close of the evening,
Was poor, but felt content,
Glad to escape from harm with life
With friends they loved so well,
Some will try to gain more wisdom,
By the sad sight they beheld.
Five thousand people were homeless,
Sad wanderers in the streets,
With no shelter to cover them,
And no food had they to eat.
They wandered down by the lake side,
Lay down on the cold damp ground,
So tired and weary and homeless,
So the rich, the poor, was found.
Mothers with dear little infants,
Some clinging to the breast.
People of every description
All laid down there to rest,
With the sky as their covering,
Ah, pillows they had none.
Sad, oh sad, it must have been,
For those poor homeless ones.
Neighboring Cities sent comfort,
To the poor lone helpless ones,
And God will not forget them
In all the years to come.
Now the City of Chicago
Is built up anew once more,
And may it never be visited
With such a great fire no more.
I SUPPOSE it just depends on where you’re raised,
Once I met a cove as swore by green belar!
Couldn’t sight the good old mallee-stump I praised;
Well!—I couldn’t sight belar, and there you are!
But the faces in the fire where the mallee stump’s a-blinking
Are the friendliest I ever seen, to my way o’ thinking!
In the city where the fires is mostly coal—
There! I can’t a-bear to go and warm my feet!
Spitting, fizzing things as hasn’t got no soul!
Things as puffs out yaller smoke instead of heat!
But at home—well, it is home when the mallee-stump’s a-burning,
And the evenin’s drawing chilly and the season is a-turning.
And there’s some as runs ’em down because they’re tough.
Well? And what’s the good of anythink as ain’t?
No. It’s nary use to serve ’em any bluff,
For they’d use up all the patience of a saint.
But they’ll split as sweet as sugar if you know the way to take ’em;
If you don’t, there isn’t nothink in the world as’ll make ’em.
They’re tremenjus hard to kindle, tho’, at first:
Like the friendship of the kind that comes to stay.
You can blow and blow and blow until you burst,
And when they won’t, they won’t burn, anyway!
But when once they gets a start, tho’ they make no showy flashes,
Well, they’ll serve you true and honest to the last pinch of ashes
No engines shrieking rescue storm the night,
And hose and hydrant cannot here avail;
The flames laugh high and fling their challenging light,
And clouds turn gray and black from silver-pale.
The fire leaps out and licks the ancient walls,
And the big building bends and twists and groans.
A bar drops from its place; a rafter falls
Burning the flowers. The wind in frenzy moans.
The watchers gaze, held wondering by the fire,
The dwellers cry their sorrow to the crowd,
The flames beyond themselves rise higher, higher,
To lose their glory in the frowning cloud,
Yielding at length the last reluctant breath.
And where life lay asleep broods darkly death.
Quite is the fire, quite is the dreams,
quite is the passions, the laughter and the tears,
Quite is the fire that sooths the moment.
Quite is the fire it's like a snow bird in flight,
lie still, lie still and take in the moment.
For we shall remember how to dream, it's like watching a
quite fire.
For a quite fire is like timeless echos in the winds.
A quite fire can soothe a lonely soul in passing.
quite is the fire.
A quite fire can take you over in a moment, it's magic,
A quite fire can burn deep with in your soul for hope,
for peace and for love.
Quite is the fire to hear a silent whisper and think of love.
Quite is the fire.
Quite is the moment
Quite is the time for laughter
Quite is the time for hope
Quite is the time for passion
A quite fire is like timeless echos in the winds.
There was a man who lived a life of fire.
Even upon the fabric of time,
Where purple becomes orange
And orange purple,
This life glowed,
A dire red stain, indelible;
Yet when he was dead,
He saw that he had not lived.
Heed me, feed me, I am hungry, I am red-tongued with desire;
Boughs of balsam, slabs of cedar, gummy fagots of the pine,
Heap them on me, let me hug them to my eager heart of fire,
Roaring, soaring up to heaven as a symbol and a sign.
Bring me knots of sunny maple, silver birch and tamarack;
Leaping, sweeping, I will lap them with my ardent wings of flame;
I will kindle them to glory, I will beat the darkness back;
Streaming, gleaming, I will goad them to my glory and my fame.
Bring me gnarly limbs of live-oak, aid me in my frenzied fight;
Strips of iron-wood, scaly blue-gum, writhing redly in my hold;
With my lunge of lurid lances, with my whips that flail the night,
They will burgeon into beauty, they will foliate in gold.
Let me star the dim sierras, stab with light the inland seas;
Roaming wind and roaring darkness! seek no mercy at my hands;
I will mock the marly heavens, lamp the purple prairies,
I will flaunt my deathless banners down the far, unhouseled lands.
In the vast and vaulted pine-gloom where the pillared forests frown,
By the sullen, bestial rivers running where God only knows,
On the starlit coral beaches when the combers thunder down,
In the death-spell of the barrens, in the shudder of the snows;
In a blazing belt of triumph from the palm-leaf to the pine,
As a symbol of defiance lo! the wilderness I span;
And my beacons burn exultant as an everlasting sign
Of unending domination, of the mastery of Man;
I, the Life, the fierce Uplifter, I that weaned him from the mire;
I, the angel and the devil, I, the tyrant and the slave;
I, the Spirit of the Struggle; I, the mighty God of Fire;
I, the Maker and Destroyer; I, the Giver and the Grave.
II
Gather round me, boy and grey-beard, frontiersman of every kind.
Few are you, and far and lonely, yet an army forms behind:
By your camp-fires shall they know you, ashes scattered to the wind.
Peer into my heart of solace, break your bannock at my blaze;
Smoking, stretched in lazy shelter, build your castles as you gaze;
Or, it may be, deep in dreaming, think of dim, unhappy days.
Let my warmth and glow caress you, for your trails are grim and hard;
Let my arms of comfort press you, hunger-hewn and battle-scarred:
O my lovers! how I bless you with your lives so madly marred!
For you seek the silent spaces, and their secret lore you glean:
For you win the savage races, and the brutish Wild you wean;
And I gladden desert places, where camp-fire has never been.
From the Pole unto the Tropics is there trail ye have not dared?
And because you hold death lightly, so by death shall you be spared,
(As the sages of the ages in their pages have declared).
On the roaring Arkilinik in a leaky bark canoe;
Up the cloud of Mount McKinley, where the avalanche leaps through;
In the furnace of Death Valley, when the mirage glimmers blue.
Now a smudge of wiry willows on the weary Kuskoquim;
Now a flare of gummy pine-knots where Vancouver's scaur is grim;
Now a gleam of sunny ceiba, when the Cuban beaches dim.
Always, always God's Great Open: lo! I burn with keener light
In the corridors of silence, in the vestibules of night;
'Mid the ferns and grasses gleaming, was there ever gem so bright?
Not for weaklings, not for women, like my brother of the hearth;
Ring your songs of wrath around me, I was made for manful mirth,
In the lusty, gusty greatness, on the bald spots of the earth.
Men, my masters! men, my lovers! ye have fought and ye have bled;
Gather round my ruddy embers, softly glowing is my bed;
By my heart of solace dreaming, rest ye and be comforted!
III
I am dying, O my masters! by my fitful flame ye sleep;
My purple plumes of glory droop forlorn.
Grey ashes choke and cloak me, and above the pines there creep
The stealthy silver moccasins of morn.
There comes a countless army, it's the Legion of the Light;
It tramps in gleaming triumph round the world;
And before its jewelled lances all the shadows of the night
Back in to abysmal darknesses are hurled.
Leap to life again, my lovers! ye must toil and never tire;
The day of daring, doing, brightens clear,
When the bed of spicy cedar and the jovial camp-fire
Must only be a memory of cheer.
There is hope and golden promise in the vast portentous dawn;
There is glamour in the glad, effluent sky:
Go and leave me; I will dream of you and love you when you're gone;
I have served you, O my masters! let me die.
A little heap of ashes, grey and sodden by the rain,
Wind-scattered, blurred and blotted by the snow:
Let that be all to tell of me, and glorious again,
Ye things of greening gladness, leap and glow!
A black scar in the sunshine by the palm-leaf or the pine,
Blind to the night and dead to all desire;
Yet oh, of life and uplift what a symbol and a sign!
Yet oh, of power and conquest what a destiny is mine!
A little heap of ashes -- Yea! a miracle divine,
The foot-print of a god, all-radiant Fire.
late, on the way home
I saw the engines
the rescues and police
and wondered why
the Station Nightclub last night
a rock concert
with pyrotechnics naturally
all caught on video
as the walls and ceilings flamed
and an orderly exit
becomes desperate under the unreal advance of the flames
suddenly a panicked crush to escape
the darkening interior of hell
the heat and toxic smoke
I can't imagine
the helpless entrapment amongst tightly-packed bodies
immobile and hurt
feeling the flames coming closer
like a hungry demonic beast
dripping saliva of burning plastic
coming to devour its prey
screams of those being taken
hoping to be unconscious
to block out this nightmare
and when it came for me
to already be in a cool place
(Written Feb 21,2003 the day after the Station Nightclub Fire in Rhode Island which killed 100 people.  Submitted Feb.20,2006
http: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Station_nightclub_fire for more info)
May we remember them always.
It was decided that the shed
- an eyesore - had to go,
so, after rolling out of bed
at  5, I'd  start the show.
A careful fire now, to burn
the boards, dismantled, one by one.
I use  the tractor - push and turn,
support beams fall  - I'm having fun.
When suddenly my front wheels stick
deep in the ground, I try reverse.
I may, if this fails, have to dig,
so now I start to yell and curse.
The fire, fuelled by roof tar,
is getting closer by the minute!
I'm trying! - something is bizarre,
it's sticky mud and I am in it.
'So get the hose ', I yell out loud,
'and call the  neighbour, hurry, kids! '
there's just a trickle coming out,
it's getting hot, I lose my wits.
As Maurice comes with his John Deere
and chain and hooks and other gear,
the flames have reached the tractor tyre.
I pray that God would douse the fire.
Accelerate, now pull and yank
but nothing moves, it's getting hot.
My eyes are on the petrol tank,
I wonder 'will I now blow up? '
At last the efforts are succeeding
and all the wheels are slowly turning.
With Maurice and his monster leading
it's high time 'cause my seat is burning!
And so we saved the day, yes Mister.
The damage was  a half-burned tyre,
a charcoaled seat, a rear-end blister,
but we escaped - and WHAT a fire!
The fire engines screaming in,
with lights a-flashing, sirens, tooting,
they're knocking down the garbage bin,
the trucks look shiny, high fallutin'.
The chief is known to us - a local.
He asks what I will not forget,
presents himself, high-pitched and vocal:
'So, put it out? '    -   I say  'You bet! '
naked flame, you're dancing higher
tasting life with such desire
but time passes, now to bed
of soft black ashes, pillows red
remembers knowing, it's admired
in embers glowing, now attired
638
To my small Hearth His fire came—
And all my House aglow
Did fan and rock, with sudden light—
'Twas Sunrise—'twas the Sky—
Impanelled from no Summer brief—
With limit of Decay—
'Twas Noon—without the News of Night—
Nay, Nature, it was Day—
WHILE I wrought out these fitful Danaan rhymes,
My heart would brim with dreams about the times
When we bent down above the fading coals
And talked of the dark folk who live in souls
Of passionate men, like bats in the dead trees;
And of the wayward twilight companies
Who sigh with mingled sorrow and content,
Because their blossoming dreams have never bent
Under the fruit of evil and of good:
And of the embattled flaming multitude
Who rise, wing above wing, flame above flame,
And, like a storm, cry the Ineffable Name,
And with the clashing of their sword-blades make
A rapturous music, till the morning break
And the white hush end all but the loud beat
Of their long wings, the flash of their white feet.
Who falls into the fire shall burn with heat;
While those remote scorn from it to retreat.
Yea, while those in it, cry out, O! I burn,
Some farther off those cries to laughter turn.
Comparison.
While some tormented are in hell for sin;
On earth some greatly do delight therein.
Yea, while some make it echo with their cry,
Others count it a fable and a lie.
Embers light the fire
Brake down the bark
Fueling heart and desire
Lost from the start
Oh, but I love being lost with you
I'd say the fire lights up my life
but I don't have to
because I think you feel it too
I just want to stay here
and be warm
Right next to you
Made it passed the wire
Painted like art
Keep on rolling like a tire
You have my heart
and the blood is swirling so beautifully
I thought you'd like to hear
My every thought and word
The only problem is
It's summed up in three simple words
I love you
Singing with the choir
Never to part
You're the one I admire
Fire was the spark
and now my world is lit up so beautifully.
The wild flame of your lovely green eyes
has still not been extinguished, my love,
has still not been extinguished!
In nights without stars, they glisten as two Venuses
in the immensity of the night, lighting my destiny.
Although, with the implacable passing of time,
the brightness of the fire of your lovely green eyes
became tinged with sadness, and the wild thing became fondness,
they still smile with sweetness every time they meet with mine.
My love, the wild fire of your pretty green eyes
still warms my heartbroken being in cold mornings,
when the morning nostalgia rides hopelessly,
looking for restless souls like mine.
My love, the wild fire of your beautiful green eyes,
a long time ago they found, by chance,
the hidden fire of my sad, sad eyes,
and they melted it in love fire for an eternity.
The wild fire of your lovely green eyes
has still not been extinguished, my love,
has still not been extinguished!
Wine by the fire on a cold winter night a Gelid concordant. The snows of winter has fallen; and the
Winds are decrescent
Wildlife are
Indefatigable
In
Winter-land
Wine by the fire on a cold winter night. Monumental snows are glaciated; and the
Valleys below are elongated
In an alabaster,
Powdery
Splendor.
Engaging winter, where polar bears are denning
And accumbented in a long
Winter sleep. Winter's prelusory; for the translucent amber,
Gild, of autumn to a dulcify
In their joining. As we dine epicurean, in the comforts of clover;
And bonivant on tasty
Wines.
Wine by the fire on a cold winter night as we
Amorously commingle as one in  A fervent that's
Second to  None And the taste of
Wine by the fire on a cold winter
Night.
Yea, the roses are still on fire
With the bygone heat of July,
Though the least little wind drifting by
Shake a rose-leaf or two from the brier,
Be it never so soft a sigh.
Ember of love still glows and lingers
Deep at the red heart's smouldering core;
With the sudden passionate throb of yore
We shook as our eyes and clinging fingers
Met once only to meet no more.
530
You cannot put a Fire out—
A Thing that can ignite
Can go, itself, without a Fan—
Upon the slowest Night—
You cannot fold a Flood—
And put it in a Drawer—
Because the Winds would find it out—
And tell your Cedar Floor—
All through my life I’ve been tooing and froing
Constantly coming and constantly going
This way and that way without even knowing
Trying so hard till fatigue started showing
When I was younger I worked day and night
Bright as a button and feeling alright
Slim as a rake but without a great height
Now slightly broader with trousers to tight
When I look back without being rude
Avoiding the mirrors when dressed in the nude
Exhausted from toil whilst my sleeps still elude
I think it was all down to endless junk food
© 2008 David Threadgold
Rambling Riddles & Rhymes
I told my kids we'd see it, this movie, they couldn't wait.
We finally saved the money so we started on our ''date''.
They were so very happy to be on there way to see
this show that they'd been saving for even more than me.
Standing by the corner, he came into our view.
He looked so very helpless that I knew what we should do.
I tried to just look past him, to keep my spirits bright.
But, then I looked in the rearview mirror and knew what would be right.
The kids were looking also, they got quiet and so still.
My son's eyes looked so heavy as they simply began to fill.
He said ''Who needs a movie? There's good stuff on t.v.''
That's when I knew my kids would feel the pain of other's just like me.
As we gave this man the money, he looked me in the eye.
He blessed us all and watched us leave without saying goodbye.
His blessing was well worth it, I felt it in my soul.
I saw my kids' compassion shine and I've never felt so whole.
Her closed eyes whispered to me
In that Cajun French accent
She had perfected; as her
Rose petal lips wet my appetite,
I devoured her each and every delicious breath.
My appetite, not to be denied
Was thirsty for more and more
“Baby, I’ve seen it all before” she said,
As I untied her halter and released
Her perfect breasts to my blind me
Of my prowess….
2008 © TS
Meals are the food for the body;
Knowledge is the food for the mind;
Meditation is the food for the spirit;
Music is the food for the love of heart;
Dreams are the food for the consciousness;
Prayer is the food for the Almighty;
Love is the food for the living heart;
Thoughts are the food for the brain;
Colourful ink is the food for the pen;
Ideas are the food for the stories;
Truth is the food for the will;
Sun’s energy is the food for the plants;
Plants are the food for the living beings;
But one man’s food is another man’s poison!
It can't be said, that everyone, is a
lover of food. But I'm one of those
people, who can indulge, regardless
of my mood. Everything, that's put
before me, I'm eager to taste. With
me around, nothing will ever have
to go to waste. I don't like to
experiment, with dishes I'm not at
all familiar with, so I stick with what
I know. I'm really the perfect guest,
as I clean my plate, with gusto.
When it's time for the sweets, to
be put on the table, that's my down
fall. Whatever is made from chocolate,
I can devour, it all. I'm the perfect guest
to have, I have to say. So whenever
you want to invite me again, I hope
it's not too far away!
All my cat wants from me is food.
The only time his fickle mood...
...is pleasant in every way.
It is the only time of day...
...that he is nice, he does come near.
He wants his fancy feast. I hear...
...him coming round the corner now
I must feed him...my kitty cow.
Copyright 12-29-2008©® Sarah Sisson
Seems most of Americans are now using food stamps
maybe for the first time in their lives?
Our economy is hurting badly
people are going to extremes, just to stay alive!
Retail thefts are rising!
Better be home if a package is dropped off at your door!
Because when you get home from work one day
it might not be there anymore!
People cutting down Christmas trees
from their neighbors very back yards!
Times are tough, I've experienced it already!
but we haven't taken what wasn't ours!
I think they're are some going overboard!
It isn't that bad, not really just yet!
But wait awhile and I'm sure my friend
then where will be our Governments safety net?
They're all using our tax payers money!
For those who haven't or never have paid any!
But they're all in line, waiting for their checks!
while working off the sweat of us who work for pennies!
Instead of bailing the Auto Industry out!
Give all new tax payers, a new car purchased tax break!
This will solve the problem they say they're having!
and save them all from filing bankruptcy
or that mental section eight!
your hand on the wheel,
Mayan bolt nonwithstanding...
where do we go from here?
my fingernails still dirty,
from digging and planting the seeds.
your eyes cloud over...
the promise of rain?
another chapter finished,
boots laced, and my hat,
your smile, a cup of coffee...
the dog waits at the door.
the mailman passes without slowing down.
the world keeps turning,
from dawn to setting sun.
and seeds become plants...
plants become food!
There is nothing like the old Chuck Wagon
Food cooked outside in the open air
Grilled and pan-fried food on the menu
For all the ranch hands to share
They cooked in all kinds of weather
Eaten by cowboys and cowgirls as well
What a rustic way to live and to eat
Many stories those Chuck Wagons could tell
Kinda gives me chills to observe
Pictures and postcards from back then
And of course we all have in the past
Many Chuck Wagon folks were our kin
Today, you know, they have contests
All cook that Chuck Wagon food
The smoky smells waft through the air
Sure puts you in a hungry mood
So if you get a chance some time
To enjoy a delicious Chuck Wagon meal
I know you’ll love every moment and bite
Outdoors with a down-home country feel!
World reels
Food shortage
A great crisis
Turns the wheel
Rich cry
Middle class eat in galore
Poor cry
Cost is more.
Green lands
Disappeared
At the cost of
Global developments
Kith and kin
Left to towns
Farmer suicides
At the cost of moneylenders.
Stocks on hoard
Food prices sore
Steel price reduced for
Construction boom.
Take over happens
Motor Car and Mobile Phone - flourish
Technology bids
Crores spent in trade.
Price index high
Inflation at rise
Global search for -
‘Consumption Index’! !
Articles written
‘Chocolate’ good for health
Companies’ relish
At the cost of a report.
Hands in mud, Sweat in head
If reported, – ‘A bonus to health’
Countrymen may take up agriculture
I am searching for a reporter! !
-vidi-
09-05-08
Hundreds and thousands have toiled under the scorching sun of summer,
to grow the food which so comfortably we eat.
think of food as the fruit of labor of thousands of hours,
rather than just rice and wheat.
millions die due to lack of food, so is their fate,
but we are lucky to have every time enough in our plate.
we may never go to the fields to produce the food,
but my friend 'food saved is food produced'.
so lets take a vow today to put in our plate only that much which we can eat,
so that even a single single grain may not go waste.
Dusty roads are many, where gutsy people walk,
Muddy paths are countless, where trusting lives live,
On the embankments of river, ravine and monsoon canals,
Millions of babies formed, born, grown and give birth,
We are the tough species to conquer any other species,
We have come a long way not to make it a short exit,
Let us celebrate our victory with the mother earth,
Where her treasure are being stolen for our mirth,
Diamond cuts a diamond; a heart wounds a heart,
We, human, hurt our fellow human for our greed,
Millions roam on the urban jungle for the food,
Millions throw the food into the bin as a fad.
Dio doppo avé creato in pochi giorni
Quello che c'è de bello e c'é de brutto,
In paradiso o in de li su' contorni
Creò un rampino e ciattaccò un presciutto.
E disse: "Quella femmina che in tutto
Er tempo che campò nun messe corni,
N'abbi una fetta, acciò non magni asciutto
Er pandecèlo de li nostri forni".
Morze Eva, morze Lia, morze Ribbecca,
Fino inzomma a ttu' moje a man'a mano,
Morzeno tutte, e ppijele a l'inzecca.
E ttutte quante cor cortello in mano
Quando furno a ttajà feceno cecca:
Sò sseimil'anni, e quer presciutto è sano.
English
After having created in a few days
What is good and what is not, God
Created in heaven, or in its whereabouts,
A hook, and hung a piece of ham to it.
He said: "The woman who during her whole life
Has not been unfaithful to her husband
Will receive a slice, to be eaten with
The heavenly bread of our bakehouse".
Eve died, Leah died, Rebecca died [2] ,
Little by little, up to your wife,
All of them passed away, every single one.
And each of them, knife in hand,
when it was their turn to slice it, failed:
After six thousand years that piece of ham is untouched.
Everything depends on food
Be cool and cool and take
Suitable food conducive to
The practice of meditation
Reflection spiritual inquiry.
Fame is a fickle food
Upon a shifting plate
Whose table once a
Guest but not
The second time is set.
Whose crumbs the crows inspect
And with ironic caw
Flap past it to the Farmer's Corn--
Men eat of it and die.
Fame is a food that dead men eat,-
I have no stomach for such meat.
In little light and narrow room,
They eat it in the silent tomb,
With no kind voice of comrade near
To bid the banquet be of cheer.
But Friendship is a nobler thing,-
Of Friendship it is good to sing.
For truly, when a man shall end,
He lives in memory of his friend,
Who doth his better part recall,
And of his faults make funeral.
'Beauty was made from her eyes.
Soon they move, I fly into the skies.
Your charming eyes are my light.
When truely at night I lose my sight.
Without their lights the moon.
Would be darkish quite soon.
Wherever I see your  eyes.
My heart stops his soul cries.
When I stray and go away.
By your eyes I find my way.
Your eyes'beauty feeds all.
Nature, human still their soul'.
'With every motion of your lip.
My heartbeats, they will whip.
Watching them when in  touch.
Inner love grows, oh! so much'.
As you drank deep as Thor, did you think of milk or wine?
Did you drink blood, while you drank the salt deep?
Or see through the film of light, that sharpened your rage with its stare,
a shark, dolphin, turtle? Did you not see the Cat
who, when Thor lifted her, unbased the cubic ground?
You would drain fathomless flagons to be slaked with vacuum-
The sea's teats have suckled you, and you are sunk far
in bubble-dreams, under swaying translucent vines
of thundering interior wonder. Eagles can never now
carry parts of your body, over cupped mountains
as emblems of their anger, embers to fire self-hate
to other wonders, unfolding white, flaming vistas.
Fishes now look upon you, with eyes which do not gossip.
Fishes are never shocked. Fishes will kiss you, each
fish tweak you; every kiss take bits of you away,
till your bones alone will roll, with the Gulf Stream's swell.
So has it been already, so have the carpers and puffers
nibbled your carcass of fame, each to his liking. Now
in tides of noon, the bones of your thought-suspended structures
gleam as you intended. Noon pulled your eyes with small
magnetic headaches; the will seeped from your blood. Seeds
of meaning popped from the pods of thought. And you fall. And the unseen
churn of Time changes the pearl-hued ocean;
like a pearl-shaped drop, in a huge water-clock
falling; from came to go, from come to went. And you fell.
Waters received you. Waters of our Birth in Death dissolve you.
Now you have willed it, may the Great Wash take you.
As the Mother-Lover takes your woe away, and cleansing
grief and you away, you sleep, you do not snore.
Lie still. Your rage is gone on a bright flood
away; as, when a bad friend held out his hand
you said, 'Do not talk any more. I know you meant no harm.'
What was the soil whence your anger sprang, who are deaf
as the stones to the whispering flight of the Mississippi's rivers?
What did you see as you fell? What did you hear as you sank?
Did it make you drunken with hearing?
I will not ask any more. You saw or heard no evil.
Big and
Big...
Glass water pot...
Clour clour
Fishes
Flying on
Water...
Right too
Left...
Left too
Right...
Very beauty full
Fishes do
Same time
Clean
The water
At eat the water dust...!
Why...
It also food
For fish...!
A boat full of fish
may be a mere lucky wish,
but one on the line
works everytime,
putting food upon my dish.
Oh how I crave for fish ‘n chips:
Our fine cuisine of world renown.
I dined on such a subtle dish
When QEII received her crown.
Oh how I need some fish ‘n chips;
I'll queue in pouring rain or snow!
What better way to warm my hands,
As soggy chips make fingers glow.
We Brits are famed for culinary finesse,
Like steak ‘n kidney pud no less;
Wondrous tripe; cottage pie;
Bangers and egg in lard to fry!
But fish ‘n chips - the crowning glory -
A dish to trounce the great kebab!
You think I care for chicken masala?
It's cod and chips that grow my flab.
Oh how I yearn for fish ‘n chips,
All poshly wrapped in the Daily Star,
Then caked and drowned in salt ‘n vinegar -
And stinking out my brand new car!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2010
< br>
Food food food food food food food of life
Food food food food food food food of life
Food and food,
Your food says
What are you.
Take food, and
That look before
All what are you.
Food and food
Your food says
About your past
And about your future,
My dear, here, you
Cannot hide yourself.
Food and food
Take food and express yourself.
There is good food and good bed.
There is fine wine and fine tune.
By is a cute lady with a melody.
You, as a king, are restless to taste.
The sword of Damocles hangs there.
The poor have taste, no means.
The rich have means, no taste.
17.04.2001, Pmdi
Food is necessary
Not for transcendental
Manifestation but for
Material conception.
And food is assured
As nullifying expression
To end all speculation
To start a new negation.
And food is assured
In a new coalition
Over and above consumption
Without much more description.
Food clothing and shelter
bare necessities.
But not all.
Peace and harmony in society
is necessary
But it does not suffice.
The world is one
And we must be friendly
And we must move
positively.
I am off camera
She is a prisoner – stewing
That a device for her feeding
Is not being properly administered
It is two feet wide by a yard long
Open at its rectangular end
Of seemingly tubular like iron construction
I do not truly understand the rant
A dream
The only thing that beats the internet in defeating time and space.
Food, Food Good Food
Good Food is a should
Healthy, health, healthy
Makes you wealthy.
Honey, honey, honey
Lets earn some money
brownie, brownie, brownie
Makes you a frownie.
Butter, Butter, Butter
Makes you flutter.
Hurry, Hurry, Hurry
Lets make berries.
Lets become healthy
wealthy and wise.
Who is best skilled trained to prepare it?
Top chief on reality tv pack up your knives?
Where are best chiefs trained to thrive?
If best chief I wanted to be how would I plan?
By taking culinary as I had always planned.
In dedicated love to preparing cooking food.
Perhaps I might have finished
my associates in culinary arts
in San Francisco where I wanted
to sail into vibe city remembered
to wear a flower in my hair in hopes
of meeting very gentle people there.
Next to avoid that New York state of mind
I might have gone to Melbourne taking up
choice bachelor in culinary management.
For some fragile souls it’s just moving
getting used to standing up on own feet
walking into totally new environments.
The incredibly lucky retain parents support
financially in all aspects of love adored life.
The blessed cannot imagine how all those
who do not have parent support survive.
The truth many souls denied do not survive.
But you of sound mind good heart kind soul
you will be successful in whatever you do.
Imagine even among stress at highest levels
of your studies despite a few home grown
glorious extravagant egos you will want be
carried on one dream a beautiful restaurant
one day a beautiful dream in blessing taste.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
A food bubble ready to burst?
Cuz speculators on Wall Street
Drive high food prices to their worst,
To bank big buck bets as we eat.
Some say deregulation made
A mess of food demand/supply.
The have nots hungry, while haves trade
To make money on sell or buy.
Most haves worry most of their worth
In terms of money and eat well,
While hunger ravages the Earth.
Fat cat heaven makes hunger hell.
Money feeds the global food biz.
What of we eat wherein greed tiz.
There he is like the ocean
Holding an empty shell
Empty shell filled with
God's food
That every lovable things on earth would live
a day more to taste.
It's not the food you eat has love
It's not love you have is adored
Palate of life
We mix it with pain and pleasure.
Tears, sweat, blood…
all ooze out from the vein of Hard work…
How can things unseen and invisible
Can be so true
Can be so rooted
here I see this beautiful earth
everything merged through these invisible forces
like a blind man see the colours of life
and weave his own colour…
red through green, green through blue
burns the angst for not being able to see…
but creates these are the colours he creates…
and lay before us the senses to feel…
Blooming into every man's beauty
Farer man sing evening songs
We wait for another morning…
I licked through the plate of food
Gulping down my thirst and hunger
Just like a hungry begging human on street
I lived for the food that comes from some distant land
And an unknown lover make it
And an unknown lover taste it
A fistful of food…
Opens her empty hands
She lives
She learns to live
She learns to eat
The passion of eating through
What I yearn to see one day
Your hands feeding a hungry mother
In the corner of a silenced street.
Cuddling the child of love
Heals a mother's womb wounded by hunger of love
Here he is like the wonderful ocean…
Holding the empty shell
Emptiness shall be filled with
God's food.
Poem by Lovita J R Morang
They say in Egypt lived a man
who dined on cheese and pickled ham
and once he ate a caravan
including horse and camel
He ate all night and ate all day
and all the people ran away
fearing they would soon be pray
to masticating ecstasy
He went down to the market cross
consuming all he came across
and then when finished at a loss
he ate himself with apple sauce.
Now here’s a thought for poets fraught
and trying to make a living,
from penning verse of many kinds
and lending us their worthy minds,
in realms diverse and many.
Some will keep to what’s held deep,
and only seek to reach our heart,
with kind, insightful, mystic art,
to sooth the soul and light the dark.
Or raise us up when life is blue,
or when were sick and off our food.
But if they would be well fed
they might resort to current news,
or stories with a twist of fate,
to mischief verse, or some debate,
on HIV or “the sovereign state”.
To give us all some food for thought
and goad you all to comment
'that poet has a clever mind,
you'd think he could write a sonnet'
So feed them well, or go to hell!
If, on this night so dark and dreary
You find yourself depressed and weary
And contemplate the various ways
That you might end it all...
Please...DON’T!
For I have seen those left behind
Nearly lose their mind...
From grief!
And it’s not a pretty sight! !
They torment themselves...
With...
What could have been...
Who it should have been...
What they might have done...
Why they didn’t see...
How they could have stopped it
If they had only known...
And on and on it goes
They wake each day to the same routine
Of sorting out facts...
Trying to make sense...
Trying to be brave...
Trying to go on...
And on and on it goes...
And you thought that YOU were living in Hell! !
Dee Daffodil (HW)  22 August,2009
As we graze upon reality
is there something we dont see
while I sit and take a glance
I wonder if its all by chance
do this life we guide from the helm
or is it set by another realm
can we change the path we take
or are we earthen bound like a lake
looking beyond this life I live
is there more I can take or give
I guess I, m searching for a gate
as I ponder upon my fate
is there something i can do
to make life better for me and you
so far nothing I have found
can unlock this chain that has us bound
I have grown old and weak
still the answer I have seek
is there something that I ought
or is it all just food for thought
The fields are bare, the harvest safe in store
Now is the time for man and beast to rest
King winter will enforce his frigid rule.
The fields are white, the harvest safe in store
In time the sun will shine and spring return
The earth will show renewed vitality
When sunshine puts an end to winters reign,
the frost retreats to let the spring return.
The farmers and the peasants know the score.
The city folk are merely parasites
who do not know nor want to know the score.
They are convinced they do not need to learn.
Confident that gold can buy anything,
this is not true. When famine strikes they’ll learn.
She hid it
but it became clear to her
even as a child
she was obsessed with food-
all the world and her relationships in it-
became things to be tasted;
consumed.
In her twenties she did not date men
she tasted them
and became bored
with them as one becomes
bored with the routine
of every day the same meal;
food was orgasmic to her
in its variety
but too,
this was  something she had to hide
because being that way also
had its guilty side;
all day long
she thought about what she would eat
that night
and the next day
or even reliving
a last  meal
re-tasting it in her mouth
it all seemed natural to her
because it seemed to her
others seemed to share as well
foods power.
It was a need to take
the outside in
to feel it in her mouth
swallow it down
tongue on texture
then a final act
of it resting inside her
as she digested it,
sometimes bulimically
to assuage  guilt
it being hidden heavings
in bathrooms, hers and those
of her friends
but always returning
to the need to fill up the Empty
to feel full
filled
to make it through some nights
eating
to assuage grief
sometimes to celebrate
often late at night secret eating
munching, ingesting
taking in
gorging on
cake and ice cream
chocolate
and potato chips
even beer
or liqueur
with exotic
items like mangos
and papayas
all carefully laid out before her
because she liked the ritual of it
the handing
the smells
the preparations and the cooking;
fork and spoon lifting high
to the altar of her mouth
to her wide lips
resting briefly upon her fiery tongue
to the savoring
the plunging onward
into the alimentary canal
to its final
warm resting place
inside.
And then the guilt
always the guilt
about what she had done
then on to the next day obsession about her  weight
the battle of the bulge
of the unwanted thickening sure to come
of the terrifying knowledge
her eating at night
it would show up
decorating her waist line
her hips,
her thighs
crime and punishment come alive
visible for all to see.
She reveled in her pregnancy
eating herself
to 51 additional pounds
and not losing all of them back
despite furious exercise;
ultimately welcoming mother hood
because cooking for her kids kept her in touch
with food
and after all
no mother
was expected to be thin;
and then escalator down
she gradually gave up
food had won
and she knew
that with advancing age
she could not lose back the years.
In despair, kids and husband now gone
she decided that it was not the food she'd been carving
all those years
rather it was a feeling of being filled up
being loved
food was just a poor substitute
And dear reader you ask what then?
She fell in love with a younger man
half her age
and he reciprocated.
the excitement of his loving her
made her feel for the first time in years
love
and gradually over a year
she lost the need for food
as a crutch.
More and more it became
for her a thing past.
Oh she did not  suddenly become a size two
but she did become a better her
more energy
and she needed that energy
becoming more and more thrilled
with whom she then was.
And yes, the two did last;
food not so much exiled
as becoming for her
only a once over-indulged
repast
from her past.
The sky has darkened before its time:
a swarm of locusts,
not a thunder-storm.
To protect my tender crops
I build foolish fires,
burning everything handy.
The smoke drives some away,
kills some.  The rest descend.
Hosts of them camp in my head.
Frenzied, I run about,
stamping the earth with bare heels.
I shout, clapping bits of tin
to distract the devouring.
When there is a famine within
we shan't go completely hungry:
we'll heap all the dead words
and cook them.  It is said
they are delicious with rice and lentils.
[From The Used Book]
Is it really so depraving
I like to eat a lot?
The thought of food I’m craving
Just ties me in a knot
THAT’S FOOD FOR THOUGHT
In time gone by, not in my day
Scholars taught the world was flat
For this they earned their scholars pay
And they believed in all of that!
THAT’S FOOD FOR THOUGHT
He thought he sailed the Indian Ocean
But found America by chance
Columbus had not the slightest notion
How great this happenstance
THAT’S FOOD FOR THOUGHT
There were prayers to many a deity
To fill the peoples needs
They prayed with reverent piety
In hope that Gods would heed
THAT’S FOOD FOR THOUGHT
Do we come from Adam’s rib
Or as Darwin claims from monkeys?
Can it be he was too glib
And perhaps a bit too funky?
THAT’S FOOD FOR THOUGHT
So many of our fellow man
We’ve often fought and killed
That started when the world began
And too much blood we’ve spilled
THAT’S FOOD FOR THOUGHT
Railway budget announced
Fares hiked
Petrol prices
Soaring high
Militants surrender
Rifles recovered
Kashmir issue
Curfew raised
Police fire tear-gas
Collector to visit
Government hospital tomorrow
Inspecting condition
New services
Deluxe buses inaugurated
Between Chennai and Trichy
Government announce
Nutrition meals
To children in asylum
Encroachment removed
Traffic smoothened
Heavy rain
Slums inundated
Power black-out
Grid units fail
Technicians in operation
People struggle
Normal life interrupted
Bilateral series
India won
Sachin scores double
All these and many more
Hot topics in today's debate
Men folks gather
Tea shops so crowded
Every news put to sword!
The hunger pangs I feel are real.
My stomachs growling to be fed,
This is no quiet mute appeal
refuses to be quieted.
Nouveau cuisine just will not do
no pretty pictures on a plate
I really need something to chew
some prime beef steak to masticate.
My stomach clearly understands
exactly what it wants and needs
Expects me to obey its commands
and as always it succeeds.
A T bone steak with some French fries
My stomach usually satisfies.
Old habits die hard
We only live in present and don't look forward
Live with junk food and rotten ideas
All our advice fall on dear ears with no regard to pleas
We are prepared to live with all diseases
No matter even if life comes to stand still or ceases
We will follow new trend with hectic life and tension
Please don’t advise us in matter with confusion
This is what new generation thinks!
Very shortly their life boat sinks
So much tension and no way out
This is life style and whole story about
Nothing is attained out of this habit
There is no strength left in feet
They crumble with little more weight
Only wait for instant result without fight
Nobody is willing to wait for a second
Even though some of the things may be beyond
We try with half willingness and less determination
It is not likely to grow any fruitful relation
Good food habits leads to culmination of good thoughts
Many successes are had without external help being sought
It calm downs the eagerness and stream into real strategy
The less time will be spent even after remaining so much busy
Food in Oslo
Before pizza ruined Scandinavian cuisine it was wholesome,
nourishing and tasted good. Ok, so it was plain and it didn´t
have mysterious spices, the meat you ate tasted like meat or if
a fish dish of fish, you know what you were eating. Food used
to be a simple science about feeding people good food, this is
no longer so as we are full, need not eat the usual to survive,
that is why food has become degeneration an entertainment
for the rich who do no longer see food as survival for the hard
working but as a sort of enjoyment for the jaded palate.
But I was walking around Oslo´s bleak streets I came across
a place called “Bondeheimen” they had meat cakes with boiled
potatoes and gravy and I knew good food will always prevail.
Bondeheimen: “farmer´s home”
IF to her eyes' bright lustre I were blind,
No longer would they serve my life to gild.
The will of destiny must be fulfilid,--
This knowing, I withdrew with sadden'd mind.
No further happiness I now could find:
The former longings of my heart were still'd;
I sought her looks alone, whereon to build
My joy in life,--all else was left behind.
Wine's genial glow, the festal banquet gay,
Ease, sleep, and friends, all wonted pleasures glad
I spurn'd, till little there remain'd to prove.
Now calmly through the world I wend my way:
That which I crave may everywhere be had,
With me I bring the one thing needful--love.
Food is god
for poor people...!
God is not
Only food...
Rich home
Dog is eat
Nice food...
That food is god...?
yes that also
A god...
Good food is
God...
What is good food...?
Given good health
Always good food...
So...
Non veg
Or veg...
Every good food
Is god...
Simply sit
Silentely eat food
With out hot
And cool drinks...
Food is not only
Poor's god...
With each and
Every one also
food is god...
Give respect and
Take food...
Happley too try too
Thank for god...!
Without food I can not live
Food is dear to me.
You can judge my faith
Seeing my food.
You can know my secular actions
In my eating drinking
And in the way of living.
Food food and food
Food is the means to live
Taking food is my birth right.
McKenna said; “They are the food of the gods”
“Has been so for 10,000 years, more or less
Consumed by shamans and a few demigods,
‘Til Laws made psilocybin illegal to possess”
It’s hard to profit from things we need not buy
For shrooms can be found growing in the wild
Alas, Feds cannot tax what grows in a cow pie!
For such a foul beginning...
It’s a wonder these unlikely fungi aren’t reviled
Some day, if you should stumble upon shrooms
Remember;
“The road to hell is paved with good intentions”
A “Good trip” can never be assumed,
You could fall short of unrealistic expectations
Mother Earth in her wisdom saw it fit,
To propagate her treasure in a plop of shit
ROTMS
I have been chasing that truck,
For 2kms, now and I will be dead
For the morsel the world cannot reach me,
Or the gods that cant make in my soil.
Why do these guys fight madly,
Brother to brother, friend to friend,
I and my type of folks live and die,
For the the beliefs and wrath
They carry, billions on arms are
Here to fight, but not a grain
To swallow, the land has become
Waterless and  dry, even the rivers
have flown away, as if scared of
Human madness, Oh food, food
When will you appear for our hungry
Souls, which sure will go to heavens,
Since our penance are over forever,
And our sins have beeen wahed away
For all the humanity by our hunngry stomachs.
Starvation is an intolerable state
of existence. However, I would rather
hunger for food, then wither away
from an absence of love.
© Joe Fazio
You don't want to eat while
drunk
You just want to drink
more
Cos food reminds you of
vomit
and food reminds you of
all the children
dying.
food is filling
food is fatting
food is good
food is plenty
food is provided by god
O Food, your glory is so great,
Strength of limbs you generate.
It should be of our own choice,
Or with guileless friends rejoice.
O delicious, sweet luscious food,
Come; see all health it includes.
All guile and ill health elude,
Keep away bad mood & feud.
Nature everywhere food provides:
In plains, on plateau and hill sides.
Just as wind blows everywhere,
Savory juices all over supplies.
Food for creatures of all types,
Of high, low neck and stripe
As the food Nature assigns,
Teeth, beak & mouth design.
O food, you boost great gods’ spirit,
Morale of the brave you ever uplift.
Helped to kill nefarious Dragon,
Glorious victory over it was won.
The juices of watery food fresh,
Dissolve all superfluous flesh.
Milk & grain protect the frame,
So as I muscular power claim.
Creation, around food galvanized,
Ever wraps up and rematerialize.
Note: Inspired by Rig Veda (1/187)
I’ve seen heart ache,
and I’ve seen pain.
I’ve seen love lost
never to be regained.
I write some poems,
to let you know.
This life lies between,
the rain above and fire below.
And through all that
the music of the poem flows.
Seasons come
and seasons go.
And dropp by drop
our understanding grows.
And when the crop of life
is ready, full, complete.
And the growing season
has reached a close.
The crop is harvested and
the finest parts put on display,
for your consumption day by day.
And when the tree is old
and has no more power
to give its fruits,
Its trunk and branches fall
returning to the ground
from whence they came.
To feed you all in another way,
through another crop, another day.
Its strange to find that I
am really growing day by day,
to feed you all until I meet,
the earth that’s always been
beneath my feet.
Food food food
All are here for food
All evolve from food
All act for food
All think about food.
All know no food
No existence.
Food come from rain
Rain ensues from sacrifice
Sacrifice rooted
In prescribed action
Prescribed action
Originate from knowledge
Knowledge proceed from you
You my dear not destructible.
So long as you are there
Food is there
You are all pervading
You are infinite
I the finite
Long for you
Through the food
Supplied to me
Only by you
And the food
Itself you.
Food, food I love you so,
People say go on a diet, but what do they know.
Food, food you make me grow,
You are the one on that makes me glow.
Burgers and fries,
They are the one that stifles my hunger cries.
Popcorn chicken and buffalo wings,
Whenever I see you, with joy my heart sings.
Smoothies and milkshake,
They all go great with a nice chocolate cake.
Ice cream and whip cream,
Why couldn’t I get you out of my dream?
Food, food I love you so.
I will always love you wherever I go.
Food, food you may not know,
But in my life, you play the leading role.
Food is good.
Prawn...takes...King.
Spider in a web
patiently there to be fed
one more fly now dead
'Every person who smokes, is going to die.
Every person who never smokes, is going to die.
Every person who is 'overweight', is going to die.
Every person who is never overweigh, is going to die.
Every person who drinks alcohol, is going to die.
Every person who never drinks alcohol, is going to die.
Every person who fails to heed the advice of health advocates, is going to die.
Every person who devotedly follows all the advice of health advocates, is going to die.
Death is inevitable.
Doctors are powerless to stop it.
Yes, it's a fact.within the next 120 years, every person alive in the world today will have died.
6 billion people will die.
There is nothing that medical science can do about it.
Doctors are not Gods, despite what they may think.
They will not, they cannot conquer death.
Universe is a big RECYCLE MACHINE.'
And you small human being who really will know that you were here?
After three generations you will be deleted from human memories.
Who will know that you have passed from the earth?
Time is the killer of all the memories
And the natur is your killer.
Don't try to understand. Try to give love and share.
Life is always bitter sweet get only what gives to you.
If you want more you will never be happy.
Your life is the beginning from your end.
Nature does not recognize you as personality,
You are a piece of the puzzle of life.
You are not all the puzzle.
Your mission is just to give life and food to eternity.
And the eternity is the reason that you exist.
still in old Italy
20 million tones
spoils to market
more money paid
waste paid collected
paid in dump charges
can we not do better?
can we stop criminal waste?
can we end global hunger?
food waste to market
not just an Italian problem
crime waste a global problem?
Free food I know it is a lie.
I can not kill that sign even though I want to.
Those who come for help will not be charged -
this much is true,
but the food is not free.
The driver and the truck
who bring it to the church,
they are not free.
The warehouse is not free.
The producers and distributors
who give it to us know
it is not free.
The church is not free.
Even Christ's great love
was not free.
Yes, the sign says: 'Free Food.'
It is clever marketing
probably even necessary
but I know it is not true.
There is at least two millenniums of cost.
Give me some food
That provide and promote
My life vitality strength
Health happiness peace purity
Give me sweet and juicy
Give me ghee butter raisins
Give me some food
That I can eat drink lick and suck
O my dear, You are my best food
Without chanting your name
I can not live a moment
Come to me with food
And provide strength
To my heart and lungs
And with you I am cheerful.
God has a body and light
The universe is inside God's light
And it is actually made of a little bit of saliva of God
God's body cannot break into two pieces
Because of gravitational force
If God's body had double mass than it has now
Then also God could not break Itself into two pieces
Even God can not make enough food for himself
That's why God is a little hungry and thirsty
And upset
Fast food tastes so good
Its probably bad for you
But good for your soul
Twenty years ago a man lived in his car.
He did something that was really bizarre.
He ate canned dog food everyday.
He ate it because of the low price he had to pay.
He didn't have a job or a home.
He had no family, he was all alone.
I wish he could've afforded better food.
I hope that his life has improved.
I love chinese food, and chinese food loves me,
but in my imaginary land, i am the queen.
The clouds there are orange chicken, the grass is chow mein,
I love my land, mostly because there's no candy canes.
The mountains are huge potsickersand the trees are eggrolls,
whatever I'm craving it falls into a bowl.
It doesn't fall in big, it falls in small,
I'll tell you how small, as small as a golf ball.
It rains soy sauce, and the bushes are broccoli,
the beef is a part, and that part is it's berries.
Whenever  go there, it's always fun,
so next time I go, you should really come.
I love food, I love food
It makes me feel really good
Yummy and nutritious food
Keeps me in a superb mood
Food is a gift from above
A sign of His assuring love
Let us not waste this treasure
Let‘s be thankful for this pleasure
I want the whole world to know
How it makes me go, grow and glow
Just eat healthy and nutritious food
And it would do you good
I love food, I love food.
(November 5,2009, Philippines)
I am in need of some food
After taking something
I will listen your love story.
I am in need of some food
After taking something
I will dance I will sing
O sun O moon O star O bird
For a moment stay there.
I am in need of some food
Food is the bare truth
If anythig is to love
Love food
Love is necessary for life
Food is necessary for
Life's maintenance.
I am in need of some food
Without food I can not
Do anything
There is no magic no power
Only there is hunger
Give me some food my dear
I love you then only
I can utter.
food waste
one country
say old Italy
800 million tonnes
of fruit picked sold
from fruit trees
750 million tonnes
left to rot
never picked
every year
market price
market fixed
market profit
not worth picking
costs more picking
than sold price paid
what a waste?
millions die wanting
millions die starving
millions die hurting
in an inefficient world?
now it is raining
luxury fruits
cherries peaches
blemish on trees
never sold
never eaten
never saves lives
harvest
process
serves
still in old Italy
20 million tones
spoils to market
more money paid
waste paid collected
paid in dump charges
can we not do better?
Italy is but one country
waste in global community
sickens sweet bull commodity
in an electronic age
can we not do better
reduce waste food
shortage shame deficiencies?
China India hungry markets
2.5 billion people droughts floods
increasing phenomena purchases
on global markets now
are undermining food
global world prices now
world’s poorest farmers
are key to deficit farmers’ food
production improvement
efficiency management is key
rising food demand increases
on a waste finite land planet
time for think
tank
needed solutions?
I want some food
True
I do not want food
From anybody
Also true.
I know this mind
Is a product of food
I eat
I want food
Cooked by a person
Of pure heart
I know man is
What he eats.
I want some food.
What an offensive brain
Tasking with junking the kids
Packed with deceiving zesty spices
Coated colourful with fattened salt and sugar..
Devoured the kids
In high spirits the packs romp and rollick
Eaten children lethargic
Resort to be hyped
Only junked in the packs hooked
Unaware of the sick-riding ghosts hidden
Spinach, carrots, artichokes,
will not grow the bones of blokes.
Ketchup, chocolate bars and chips
Coca Cola, frequent nips,
always listen to your mates
food's best served on paperplates.
I wanted a roast beef sandwich
So I found myself at the fridge
It turned out
The bacteria got to it before I did
I'm not putting that in my mouth
Nor should you
Don't let bacteria get to food before you
There were great men by whom the society
Has immensely benefited and yet
It utterly failed to treat their descendants,
Who reeled in poverty and are forgotten.
To honour the great after their exit
Is not remembrance of their names
But helping of their ailing progeny.
Let his child get food before he gets fame.
I just grabbed a long-handled spoon.....
to scoop little pickles from a jar.
While looking at them swimming in jar's brine,
I had a thought I thought was bizarre.
Once in Georgia at a big swamp's edge,
an alligator in a ditch I taunted.
Tonight those pickles WERE alligators..... I pledge!
Well NOT really, but there was resemblance.
I imagined looking down at a pool of ‘gators,
with no heads, nor legs, nor tips of tail.
[as penguins resemble tuxedoed-waiters]
My imagination as yet does not fail !
(Feb.2013)
Love is the food of the heart.
The more it flows uncircumscribed
to all creation, the more the soul
realizes he must stop eating
once living beings.
When he turns to nonviolent food
his physical heart can gradually
heal releasing gradually the animal
fat, amyloid plaque, uric acid
and other accretions in the arteries.
I'd love to be a bird
That flies high up in the sky.
But rather than worms from the ground,
I'd prefer to pull a french fry.
Eyes do all that is needed
With due consideration point is conceded
But quest does not end in result
Sometimes hunger pushes more insult
I find horizon so log and vast
But happiness does not last
I have lot more to find
I can not afford to be kind
But what is happening?
Is it bad beginning?
I find no prey near the target
My eyes are tired but how to forget?
I shall fly higher
To get closer
To the object
And act
Some days prove futile
Yet efforts must go on for a while
I need to be more vigilant
And search them in plants
I shall go for search
And come down as such
Let me hope I succeed in the day
Find the delicious meal any way
Birds have free food and nest
Foxes hve free food and holes
Alas, men have no
Free food no free house.
Are you just a tub of lard and
Vastly overweight?
Do you think that when you die you'll
Need a piano crate
To act as coffin for your frame? -
Chosen as you die in shame, with
Only you to take the blame
For years of eating much the same:
A daily calorific fest
Gourmands of your ilk digest!
Is your heart in final fling and
Nearly set to burst?
Are your arteries bunged and clogged and
Feeling now the worst
For wear? - your aneurysm fit to blow
While blood as thick as rising dough
Cries 'Halt! ' to any hope of flow:
A dreadful state to put on show
In front of any nurse!
Best you hail a hearse.
Copyright Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
Oh! Food food food food food food food foooooood!
I had a peanut butter sandwich today
which made me think of all the way....
sssss my life has been touched by that
stick-to-your-mouth sludge of peanut fat.
Not 'touched' in the sense that it's shaped my life,
but  when I open a jar and take up a knife
or a spoon, I can picture times of enjoy-
ment as an adult consumer and as a boy.
Of course I'm lucky in that I generally enjoy food
even if I'm in a rare bad mood.
I assume pb was a common snack in my childhood,
though I'm not sure it was.  My memory is not that good.
But I do remember my Mom made cookies from it;
I helped her.  And the first cooled cookie I'm sure I bit,
paying some attention to the crisscross pattern on top,
or the sometimes-present big chocolate drop.
And when I visited my childhood neighbor, Helen, it's a good bet
that  sometimes a  peanut butter sandwich I would get.
[But I really better remember that Helen's kitchen at times had cake.
I assume her mother, Betty, the cake did make.]
At Halloween there were pb 'cups' made by Reeses.
Chocolate and pb.  It's good they were small pieces!
As an adult pb has been with me off and on.
Probably when I shared a home with my brother Don,
and when Shannon, my daughter, was young (that makes me smile) ,
and when I lived in a storage garage for a short while.
I used to put it on plain warm toast, but
perhaps mixed-with-vanilla-ice cream I enjoyed it most.
I can't tell you how it would taste on sliced tomato,
but I can say it wasn't good when tried on mashed potato! !
And as I type today there's an unsealed jar nearby.
My wife cautions me against too much, but I'm not sure why.
From time to time it's a treat on cereal or bread,
but usually it's just a spoon of it I stick into my head.
(This is a fictional poem)
You keep sending your food back because you aren't satisfied.
If you send it back just once more, we are going to step outside.
You say that my food stinks but you don't realize that I'm a great chef.
My meals have caused food poisoning but they've caused no deaths.
You said that your bacon was burned and your eggs were runny.
I'm going to kick you in the crotch and you won't think it's funny.
You keep complaining about your meals, nobody likes a whiner.
You say that I cook worse than that chef who owned Mel's diner.
I'm getting pissed because of the meals that you return.
I hold the worlds record for food that causes heartburn.
Yuck!  Gross!  I won't eat that
This food looks like a run over rat
It's green and gross, kind of icky,
It smells like a sewer and is really sticky
Nasty meat cooked half-way through
I think my face is turning blue
I think this bread is twelve years old.
The fries aren't cooked, they're still cold!
Yuck! Gross! I won't eat that
this food looks like a run over rat
it’s green and gross, kind of icky,
it smells like a sewer and is really sticky.
Nasty meat cooked half-way through
I think my face is turning blue,
I think this soup is twelve years old.
The fries aren't fried, they're still cold!
We know the school isn’t rich,
But they can’t give us cold dish.
Thick red blood veins bath in anger
The stomach grumbles in idiotic anger
A taste of food and out springs laughter
Triumphant moods commence again after
And it can be argued
We are all but slaves of food
Digesting away between interludes
Without food the mind is wholly screwed
We consume and wear different costumes
With food for thought and food of all sorts
We eat for the heart until it sets us apart
While the crumbs are often sought by rats
The pleasure one feels after a congested meal
That inner gratifying satisfaction is cheap but real
Toast, eggs and beans and it is work and work
Fruits, wine and cakes and it is talk and talk
Coffee or tea and eyes are conspicuously awake
A turkey roast and sleep is suspiciously at stake
We are all but slaves of food
I conclude with fluctuating moods
There is food for romance
There is food for the fools
Enjoy, eat fast, food never lasts, rewind and preview
Hungry mouths elsewhere regularly wait for its rescue
Copyright 2009 - Sylvia Chidi
Some food is
Medicine...
Medicine is some food...
Some food is poison...
Some food is Tenson...
Some food is Fear...
Some food is lovely...
Some food is Bland...
Some food is sweety...
Some food is spicy...
Some food is nothing...
Food is not only food
A good eatable medicine...
At only some food...
Some food...!
So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;
And for the peace of you I hold such strife
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure;
Now counting best to be with you alone,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure;
Sometimes all full with feasting on your sight,
And by and by clean starvèd for a look;
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Save what is had, or must from you be took.
Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
Or gluttoning on all, or all away.
And now and then, I taste the foods I shouldn't;
So stupidly in utter  disregard;
The things I loved to eat, some now I couldn't;
My allergy too has made me a Bard.
The sufferings that follow are so great;
I take the drugs to combat Allergy;
Of course, the symptoms do promptly abate;
But side-effects do steal my energy;
1 wish I had avoided the mistake;
I can’t be careful, all the time in life;
By miracle, if God-could only take,
Away the poison that adds to my strife.
Yet, blame I will myself for my sad plight;
How can a poison turn harmless o'er-night?
The rotten mangoes that I threw away
Are spotted by a crow by early dawn;
By beak, he tastes them, flying on his way
To tell his friends about the food this morn!
Most birds eat almost anything they get;
Yet, they must search for food all life each day;
They must do this before the sun can set;
‘God feeds them daily’ – that’s what people say!
In tons, food wasted can feed millions still;
The heart to feed the hungry is not there;
And wasted drugs can be of use to ill;
Is there not space for all on ground or air?
All earthlings ought to toil for food and drink;
Yet grains go down the drains; food down the sink!
Pigeon on the ledge,
Starved, walks away from seeds; needs
Hugs, love therapy.
I do not want to know
The source of food
I am not worry about food
Think about food is
Your look out.
In food is a certain quality of taste,
May they abstain and be erased.
For food manages my godly life,
Just as the fish manage with strife.
In this food, in that food we collapse
And honour a feast with some gaps.
The food we eat as dinner shall be kind
To the sleep we carry throughout the mind.
What food do you cook with expertise?
Fish and meat will certainly cease!
Leaping, leaping, leaping,
down line by line,
growling at the cadavers,
filling the holy jugs with their piss,
falling into windows and mauling the parents,
but soft, kiss-soft,
and sobbing sobbing
into their awful dog dish.
No point? No twist for you
in my white tunnel?
Let me speak plainly,
let me whisper it from the podium-
Mother, may I use your pseudonym?
May I take the dove named Mary
and shove out Anne?
May I take my check book, my holographs,
my eight naked books,
and sign it Mary, Mary, Mary
full of grace?
I know my name is not offensive
but my feet hang in the noose.
I want to be white.
I want to be blue.
I want to be a bee digging into an onion heart,
as you did to me, dug and squatted
long after death and its fang.
Hail Mary, full of me,
Nibbling in the sitting room of my head.
Mary, Mary, virgin forever,
whore forever,
give me your name,
give me your mirror.
Boils fester in my soul,
so give me your name so I may kiss them,
and they will fly off,
nameless
but named,
and they will fly off like angel food dogs
with thee
and with thy spirit.
Let me climb the face of my kitchen dog
and fly off into my terrified years.
Mother, in some sad evening long ago,
From thy young breast my groping lips were taken,
Their hunger stilled, so soon again to waken,
But nevermore that holy food to know.
Ah! nevermore! for all the child might crave!
Ah! nevermore! through years unkind and dreary!
Often of other fare my lips are weary,
Unwearied once of what thy bosom gave.
(Poor wordless mouth that could not speak thy name!
At what unhappy revels has it eaten
The viands that no memory can sweeten, --
The banquet found eternally the same!)
Then fell a shadow first on thee and me,
And tendrils broke that held us two how dearly!
Once infinitely thine, then hourly, yearly,
Less thine, as less the worthy thine to be.
(O mouth that yet should kiss the mouth of Sin!
Were lies so sweet, now bitter to remember?
Slow sinks the flame unfaithful to an ember;
New beauty fades and passion's wine is thin.)
How poor an end of that solicitude
And all the love I had not from another!
Peace to thine unforgetting heart, O Mother,
Who gav'st the dear and unremembered food!
She gave me the food of her love and,
It was like the crystal sea full of roses!
But i stood on the surface of the bronze sea to greet her,
For the gold of her love was like the beautiful butterflies!
Oh how sweet she was when i entered her,
For she remembered the words of her mother at last;
And the food of her love was fully prepared for me only.
What would you like for supper,
Some steak, with chips and peas,
Maybe, a nice brewed cuppa,
Or me, with lips that please.
You could have something spicy,
Like a curry or sweet and sour,
But these can be a bit spicy
And not good, at this late hour.
Perhaps a glass of beer, or shandy,
Or a brandy to fill the gap,
But, of course, that might make you randy,
Hey! Have that as your nightcap!
There's me, I'm sweet and slender,
And tender like the steak,
And if you put me in a blender,
A fantastic meal, I'd make.
There's food enough for your pleasure,
So don't say you aren't well fed,
When you start to realise I'm a treasure,
You could have 'hot crumpet' in your bed!
©   Ernestine Northover
Rat
Go for cat
With cat mouth...
In the year 2525
If man is still alive
If woman can survive
They may find; ........
That they were evolved into either Eloi or Morlocks,
But wait that occurs in 802,701 A.D., never mind;
But in the mean time, somewhere between now and then,
Human kind may find seeds that were frozen in time in a mountain,
A Doomsday Vault is lying within 650 miles from the North Pole in Norway.
It was built to withstand disaster natural and unnatural,
Earthquakes and nuclear exchanges,
and against Polar Bears,
But eat irradiated produce now,
what’s the big deal?
Having precooked veggies,
micro waved by fusion,
for your next meal?
4.5 million seeds are to be enclosed here,
From around the world to have some food in case disaster strikes,
Enough for Morlocks and enough for the Eloi,
But are they forgetting the bees?
You can grow plants but how do you get to pollinate them?
But we, in the present,
are banking on those in the future,
will solve this problem.
But today politically speaking,
at this moment,
there is (Condoleeza)  Rice in China.
(2-26-2008)
Newton
every stall splashes its best
on the wall
Newton
Malacca's new age
hawkers
Here at Malacca Newton foodcourt is one of the model hawker's
food outlet. There are sections for Chinese, Indian and Malay food.
The Chinese cuisine can be found at the fore, the Indian at the side and the Malay at the back of the food court. Each hawker stall has his own space to showcase his food including in the form of large pictures on the wall. You see at the back of every stall, large tasteful fare such as satay, popiah, chi cheong fun, herbal soups, porridge, fried oysters, char koey tiaw among others. There are some 30 Chinese stalls,10 Malay and eight Indian stalls. The environment is clean with wooden tables and chairs, and large Chinese lanterns hanging from the ceiling. There are sections where one can dine open air styled.
Food! Food! Food!
It is all that we need
It is all that we need
to calm down our spirits!
It is food that fills
that fills the empty pangs
of our stomachs,
pangs that make us yawn
but cannot sleep
that make us gulp
but cannot vomit,
that make our saliva
taste sour and acidic!
We cry for food
like the helpless little children
with the art to attract attention
by our street demonstrations.
Yes, we cry for food like little children
to calm down our spirits,
that the cry cannot at all be neglected
for it is food,
it is food that soothes our spirits.
But you give us bullets
on the streets where we stage
our cry for food
You give us bullets
instead of food.
But even bullets cannot silence
our cry for food
for as long as we`re hungry
we shall be like little children
that will ever cry for food.
Food for the body
I know of men, who do not have enough,
Lacking food and drink, their life is rough
Day in, day out they struggle for food
There is no time for any other good
Food for the ego
I know of men who have enough food and drink
So they have time for something else to think
Their egos are hungry for money, power and fame
Getting more, being restless, an endless game
Food for the soul
I know of men who are contented with how they live
They focus on soul and never cease to give
To give love and support, perform acts randomly kind
They are the ones who have at any time peace of mind
Memorial Day weekend, ESPN, I watched, “Outside The Lines, ”
And what I heard, well as the saying goes it just, “blew my mind, ”
High school kids desiring to advance & arrive at the college level,
However, there are those coaches who would bury it with a shovel.
7-on-7 football program is rapidly gaining popularity nationwide,
Okay now begs the question, what right has the NCAA to decide?
Former NFL great, Keyshawn Johnson sponsors & coaches teens,
By the way he doesn’t make any money but spends his own green.
How is it that people are in a huff about a day spent on a yacht?
To reward the kids for their efforts and enjoy what they have not?
Giving a sneak peak at what can be accomplished and the reward,
Should they reach the pinnacle of success and are able to afford.
Two Caucasian coaches speaking on OTL were one 100% against,
And should be obvious they grew up on the other side of the fence,
Whereas the majority of these teens are of African American decent,
Now with the high unemployment rate parents are just making rent.
How dare they or anybody come on camera, whine, moan & groan,
Because most of these kids will never qualify for any student loans,
Until they or anyone are willing to foot the bill, leave them alone,
Prejudice is not manifested in the locker room it begins at home.
Scholarships are the one and only way they will ever continue on,
How can any sanctioning body not involved declare it is wrong?
When a former standout wide receiver is willing to share his time,
What gives those who’ve never played a right to speak their mind?
It’s impossible to appreciate endless opportunities unless exposed,
As inner city Blacks, Hispanics & Whites the whole world knows,
Are like goldfish in their limited environment of one gallon bowls,
Till the big fish on the outside take time to tutor & help them grow.
So, when coaches steer them towards colleges they graduated from,
Would that not be better than not being recruited from a single one?
Or a school with unscrupulous characteristics and deceitful means?
No one alive has the right to prematurely squash God given dreams.
I still remember those childhood days,
We could not go where the big brother plays,
But we had our tiny little niche,
Around the balconies, where maids wash the dish,
Round the year was our football season,
Much cheaper than cricket was the reason,
Did not have the boots to play with,
Bare-foot or pain was no reason to quit,
We did have our own competition,
Apart from fun and the strenuous lessons,
World cup was too far, had no knowledge,
Affluent always had over us an edge,
86’ was the first world cup I watched,
WOW the number of goals than Maradona notched,
But this time Chennaites may not be as lucky,
CAS for signal carrier has made our fate shaky.
CAS: Is Conditional Access System for the Pay Channels, which many households do not have.
(June 7,2006)
He was undersized
compared to his peers
He waited for his chance
to catch the toss
He ran the final points
that cinched the win
Cheers and accolades
swirled all around
The spectators stood tall
and high-fived
He took it all in stride
smiling shyly
It was his only touchdown
of the season
He was a modest
one-time football hero
2/2/08
We were challenged by The Dingoes - they're the pride of Squatter's Gap-
To a friendly game of football on the flat by Devil's Trap.
And we went along on horses, sworn to triumph in the game,
For the honour of Gyp's Diggings, and the glory of the same.
And we took the challenge with us. It was beautiful to see,
With its lovely curly letters, at its pretty filigree.
It was very gently worded, and it made us all feel good,
For it breathed the sweetest sentiments of peace and brotherhood.
We had Chang, and Trucker Hogan, and the man who licked The Plug,
Also Heggarty, and Hoolahan, and Peter Scott, the pug;
And we wore our knuckle-dusters, and we took a keg on tap
To our friendly game of football with The Dingoes at The Gap.
All the fellows came to meet us, and we spoke like brothers dear.
They'd a tip-dray full of tucker, and a waggon load of beer,
And some lint done up in bundles; so we reckoned there'd be fun
Ere our friendly game of football with the Dingo Club was done.
Their umpire was a homely man, a stranger to the push,
With a sweet, deceitful calmness, and a flavour of the bush.
He declared he didn't know the game, but promised on his oath
To see fair and square between the teams, or paralyse them both.
Then we bounced the ball and started, and for twenty minutes quite
We observed a proper courtesy and a heavenly sense of right,
But Fitzpatrick tipped McDougal in a handy patch of mud,
And the hero rose up, chewing dirt, and famishing for blood.
Simple Simonsen, the umpire, sorted out the happy pair,
And he found a pitch to suit them, and we left them fighting there;
But The Conqueror and Cop-Out met with cries of rage and pain,
And wild horses couldn't part those ancient enemies again.
So the umpire dragged them from the ruck, and pegged them off a patch,
And then gave his best attention to the slugging and the match.
You could hardly wish to come across a fairer-minded chap
For a friendly game of football than that umpire at The Gap.
In a while young Smith, and Henty, and Blue Ben, and Dick, and Blake,
Chose their partners from The Dingoes, and went pounding for the cake.
Timmy Hogan hit the umpire, and was promptly put to bed
'Neath the ammunition waggon, with a bolus on his head.
Feeling lonely-like, Magee took on a local star named Bent,
And four others started fighting to avoid an argument:
So Simonsen postponed the game, for fear some slight mishap
Might disturb the pleasant feeling then prevailing at The Gap.
Sixty seconds later twenty lively couples held the floor,
And the air was full of whiskers, and the grass was tinged with gore,
And the umpire kept good order in the interests of peace,
Whilst the people, to oblige him, sat severely on the p'lice.
Well, we fought the friendly game out, but I couldn't say who won;
We were all stretched out on shutters when the glorious day was done;
Both the constables had vanished; one was carried off to bunk,
And the umpire was exhausted, and the populace was drunk.
But we've written out a paper, with good Father Feeley's aid,
Breathing brotherly affection; and the challenge is conveyed
To the Dingo Club at Squatter's, and another friendly game
Will eventuate at this end, on the flat below the claim.
We have pressed The Gap to bring their central umpire if they can-
Here we honestly admire him as a fair and decent man-
And we're building on a pleasant time beside the Phoenix slums,
For The Giant feels he's got a call to plug him if he comes.
Their jeans sparkled, cut off
way above the knee, and my
friends and I would watch them
from my porch, books of poems
lost in our laps, eyes wide as
tropical fish behind our glasses.
Their football flashed from hand
to hand, tennis shoes gripped
the asphalt, sweat's spotlight on
their strong backs. We would
dream of hugging them, and crouch
later in weird rooms, and come.
Once their ball fell our way
so two of them came over, hands
on their hips, asking us to
throw it to them, which Arthur did,
badly, and they chased it back.
One turned to yell, "Thanks"
and we dreamed of his long
teeth in our necks. We
wanted them to wander over,
place deep wet underarms to
our lips, and then their white
asses, then those loud mouths.
One day one guy was very tired,
didn't move fast enough,
so a car hit him and he sprawled
fifty feet away, sexy, but he was
dead, blood like lipstick, then
those great boys stood together
on the sidewalk and we joined them,
mixing in like one big friendship
to the cops, who asked if we were,
and those boys were too sad to counter.
We'd known his name, Tim, and how
he'd turned to thank us nicely
but now he was under a sheet
anonymous as God, the big boys crying,
spitting words, and we stunned
like intellectuals get, our high
voices soft as the tinkling of a
chandelier on a ceiling too high to see.
It is the first game of the football season
At most colleges and universities across the land.
Dedicated and loyal fans will enter the stadium
Thinking of a successful season beforehand.
Alumni and friends will tailgate before the game
Preparing food on their char-coal grills,
While the band assembles on an adjacent lot,
Anxious to enter the stadium to perform musical skills.
The visiting team dares to pose itself
In the stadium's path to all.
Prepared to tolerate the booing and jeering
As they enter the field to play football.
The field is fringed with supportive fans,
And loyalty and spirit are everywhere.
A quietude of anxious moments,
And confidence in the home team is in the air.
The band enters and struts on to the field,
Cheerleaders perform their acrobatic skills,
Alumni sit together in proximity to the gridiron
Reminiscing their collegiate days of glory and thrills.
Teams rush on to the grass covered turf
Amidst the roar of an enthusiastic crowd.
The visiting team clad in their school colors,
The home team in theirs and ever so proud.
The teams may be called Sun Devils or Wildcats,
But it makes no difference to the ardent fan.
They expect their favorite team to win,
And parade through the streets with streamers in hand.
Sometimes - defeat for the home team is inevitable.
The errors are many - the score high.
Imagine - the stadium's calming hush
As thoughts of a losing season passes by.
Another Football Season has just commenced having said so just the same
A lot of hype and excitement about  a field game
For many from their life problems a relief of sorts
Suppose that's why the establishments created sports.
Some things do seem to change little from year to year
Of football fans discussing football one often does hear
They talk of their Club as if the Club they did own
'Tis from people like them that Football Clubs are grown.
They talk of team ratings and player stats and of last weekend's best on ground
And of who their team are due to play in the next round
And the forward with a goal for the taking who kicked a behind
Next week with the seconds a place he may not find.
Another Football Season commencing the barracker's wife
She does feel neglected but then such is life
He knows about Football and the words of the Club song
And his heart to the Club it does surely belong.
Never cared much about football, even less about
the Cardinals.
Pat Tillman rose above the football field, reached
out and touched our lives with his love.
Pat's heart encircled all Americans as he went
overseas to fight for our freedom and continued
safety.
To hear of his death this morning was devastating,
I can't imagine what his family is feeling.
Hopefully, this poem holds some of what Pat meant
to all of us.
I've heard that Ballydaly does not have a football team
Which puts a cloud on Tommy Tucker's dream
That they might win Duhallow for third time
And give some bard another chance to rhyme.
They won their first Duhallow title more than forty years ago
Some time back in the fifties that I know
Though of my dates I'm not too very clear
I think 'twas fifty seven was the year.
When Ballydaly had their first big win
And their footballers were celebtated men
And John Twomey wrote of Ballydaly Boys
And west of Millstreet bonfires lit the skies.
The Sullivans, the Buckleys, Jerome and Paddy Ring
Of them the famous Mushera bard did sing,
Tom Mulcahy and Tim Kiely at the back
To Cullen forwards pressure would not crack.
Jack Murphy and Con Kelleher were supreme
Their goals took fight out of the Cullen team
And Pat Joe Kelleher brought his skill to play
And Andy Lynch at midfield won the day.
Big Jerry Corkery played a true captain's part
And sturdy Mick Horgan not lacking in heart
And Pat and Eddy Murphy cheered in victory
It's nice to recall such a memory.
And of them all the Mushera bard did sing
And of how Danny Regan called each player a king
Such memories I retain from years gone by
When I was young a Primary school going boy.
But for Ballydaly a near two decades wait
Before their fans again would celebrate
I think it was in nineteen seventy five
When Ballydaly once more came alive.
Some of those fellows I remember well
They scorned the word defeat and laughed at hell
The Twomey brothers Denis, Tim and Dan
Could hold their own with any man to man.
Con Connors who was a teenager then
Years later he mixed it with the best of men
I watched him play for Millstreet in the green
And for Cork in the red he too was seen.
His brother Tim his passing caused much grief
He died quite young his life was far too brief
He did not even live to see his prime
The poor lad was not granted so much time.
As his two brothers had done years before
The Ballydaly colours Ted Ring wore
And Tadgh and Denis Murphy stood the test
In the field of play they always gave their best.
The Keeffes from Knocknalummin gave their all
And the Leary brothers fought for every ball
And D Dinneen that marvellous personality
How could he ever slip the memory.
Denny John Murphy his dad from Lisnaboy
A hardy sort he gave it his best try
And Frank Hickey could run and run all day
And Kanturk's Mullane also lined out to play.
Big John Murphy may not have been in that team
But on his day the big man was supreme
And of Dave, John and Christy Tarrant opponents used to say
From toughest challenge they'd not back away.
And Dan Joe Casey to his colours true
And in his time a handy player too
And the Moynihans and the McCarthys John and Joe
Too played for Ballydaly years ago.
So many players since Con and Bill Jack's day
For Ballydaly took the field to play
John Regan and the Sullivans Tom and Mick
And Humphrey Reardon he was strong and quick.
And though as a weight lifter he won all of his fame
Big J.J. Fitz another I could name
And there were more far too many to recall
Who for Ballydaly played gaelic football
And it puts a cloud on Tommy Tucker's dream
If Ballydaly does not have a football team
That they might win Duhallow for third time
And give some bard another chance to rhyme.
A game called prison ball was enjoyed in France
while English boys played rounder in short pants.
Town ball was the game that Americans played
While friends and family watched from the shade.
American baseball became alive
With Cartwright's rules of 1845.
Civil War soldiers played behind the lines
To help pass time and soothe troubled minds.
Professional baseball got its start
When the National League performed its part.
Soon after fans would pay to see the games
As the players traveled by boats and trains.
From April to October, players play.
Half the time at home and half away.
By thirty, it's time for most to retire
Before they're consumed by game time desire.
FOOTBALL
The stands are full of eager fans
Who say, we're paid too much money!
But if they would put our suits on
They'd find football isn't funny.
Twenty-two men and five referees
Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball.
Mashing and bashing all the way
Till the striped shirts whistle their call.
All the generals on the sideline
Are waging their athletic war.
And the letters in the words they use
Never amount to more than four.
There's no substitute for winning
And no excuse for losing.
Though after games; when we can't sleep
It's because of all the bruising.
BOXERS, PAST & PRESENT
The Greek and Roman athletes
Wore studs of iron on each hand
Beating and clawing each other
Like two tigers on the sand.
The English called it boxing first
To pound someone with your fist.
Mostly it was done for money
But sometimes by those just pissed.
Matches of the bare-knuckle days
Lasted fifty rounds or more
Till one man's towel would be thrown in
As he lay upon the floor.
Boxers now use soft leather gloves
With their hands wrapped in cotton.
Wearing a mouthpiece for teeth and lips
They fight like those forgotten.
BESIDES LOVE MEN NEED FISHING
Besides love men need fishing
And for both, most are wishing
Catching trophies chosen best
To be envied by the rest.
Fishing is a game of sport
Loved by all, both tall and short.
We must fool the fish’s eye
If we plan to stir and fry.
Some use boats while others wade
As they fish the sun or shade.
Ice-cold drinks help pass the day
While life’s troubles fade away.
Most men feel they've everything
With their rod, hook, cork and string.
Be it river, pond or lake
We all pray our line won't break.
GOLF
Many games were played with a stick and ball
As far back as the early days of man
Till the 14th century, golfers teed off
At St. Andrews, Scotland with clubs in hand.
Today men and women both play golf
As a group or just one or two.
Players, rich, poor, pro, or in between
Practice their swing with clubs, old and new.
They don't go thirsty cause they bring their own
Whatever it takes to enjoy the day.
Sometimes they play several games at once
As they win money or give it away.
There's nothing better than a green golf course
With the sweet scent of spring in the air.
To escape the drudgery of the workplace
Where you can laugh, joke, brag, gamble and swear.
PUMPING IRON
Except for love, there's nothing beats a good workout
Pumping iron with dumbbells or a bench press bar.
You're muscles grow tight as you begin to swell
And those who like firmness want to know who you are.
From 16 to 60 you can still look good
Though they'll be some who will point, laugh, and make fun.
Pay no attention to whatever they say
For  the jokes on them, when they're naked in the sun.
History's Sampson, the biblical strong man
Was blessed with the strength of no other.
A modern man who pumps iron and gives it his all
Before he knows it, could pass for his brother.
So put aside the pop, beer, hotdogs and chips
And pump earth's iron for the rest of your life
Soon you’ll discover the best of yourself
And always have someone for a girlfriend or wife.
BASEBALL
A game called prison ball was enjoyed in France
while English boys played rounder in short pants.
Town ball was the game that Americans played
While friends and family watched from the shade.
American baseball became alive
With Cartwright's rules of 1845.
Civil War soldiers played behind the lines
To help pass time and soothe troubled minds.
Professional baseball got its start
When the National League performed its part.
Soon after fans would pay to see the games
As the players traveled by boats and trains.
From April to October, players play.
Half the time at home and half away.
By thirty, it's time for most to retire
Before they're consumed by game time desire.
FOOTBALL
The stands are full of eager fans
Who say, we're paid too much money!
But if they would put our suits on
They'd find football isn't funny.
Twenty-two men and five referees
Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball.
Mashing and bashing all the way
Till the striped shirts whistle their call.
All the generals on the sideline
Are waging their athletic war.
And the letters in the words they use
Never amount to more than four.
There's no substitute for winning
And no excuse for losing.
Though after games; when we can't sleep
It's because of all the bruising.
BESIDES LOVE MEN NEED FISHING
Besides love men need fishing
And for both, most are wishing
Catching trophies chosen best
To be envied by the rest.
Fishing is a game of sport
Loved by all, both tall and short.
We must fool the fish’s eye
If we plan to stir and fry.
Some use boats while others wade
As they fish the sun or shade.
Ice-cold drinks help pass the day
While life’s troubles fade away.
Most men feel they've everything
With their rod, hook, cork and string.
Be it river, pond or lake
We all pray our line won't break.
GOLF
Many games were played with a stick and ball
As far back as the early days of man
Till the 14th century, golfers teed off
At St. Andrews, Scotland with clubs in hand.
Today men and women both play golf
As a group or just one or two.
Players, rich, poor, pro, or in between
Practice their swing with clubs, old and new.
They don't go thirsty cause they bring their own
Whatever it takes to enjoy the day.
Sometimes they play several games at once
As they win money or give it away.
There's nothing better than a green golf course
With the sweet scent of spring in the air.
To escape the drudgery of the workplace
Where you can laugh, joke, brag, gamble and swear.
Tom's 601 Poems Are Free To Share!
By God's Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
Tom Zart www.internetvoicesradio.com/t_zart/
http: //www.veteranstodayforum.com/viewforum.php? f=38
'To book Tom Zart for guest appearances, product, or services, contact Raymond L. LaPietra-Exclusive Personal Manager,913-681-7750 (office) , modelman@careerimages.com (e-mail) ,
On a sunny day, that warmed the winter breeze
Running with laughter and children,
With butterflies flitting o’er bobbing heads,
Coyly swaying grass,
Smiling up to clear blue skies!
Little sparrows twitter startled,
From their gentle snooze in the shadows.
Happy shouts play pass, with stomping feet
Arms waving, jumping
This way, this way! And goallll! ! !
Case in point proven. I told you that we the patriots will win the Superbowl of World Peace, but the sell of the Patriots winning the football game ''this year'' was the falsehood. Again I say, ''Selling falsehood doesn't stop truth from happening.'' - Joshua Aaron Guillory
Have you seen a football match?
In a field two goal-keepers' catch.
What do they catch and for why?
They catch ball for non-goal, bye.
Have you watched dance in ground?
Make cheerful players spend pound.
In round dancers come, dance enjoy,
Football world cup fills all with joy.
It takes place among two teams,
Team has eleven players' beams.
Around the field players do stand,
Goal posts are two each side bland.
A referee is there, makes them play,
He blows whistle when finds a clay.
Player to player does pass the ball,
Co-operations vanish atrocities all.
Players run referee does dance, act
Ball dances in sky and ground fact.
Spectators dance and run in cheer,
They say hip- hip hurray in a gear.
Scorer scores the ball for a goal,
Certain aim and effort reach to goal.
Hard labour doesn't go in vain,
Laborious parties win and gain.
Spectators cheer and enjoy the game,
They get affection, fraternity and fame.
Love, nonviolence develop among them,
Players maintain health in this game.
as the years grow harder
so do the choices
should i listen to myself
or listen to the voices
for over three years
football's been my thing
i dealt with the failure
i pushed through the sting
but now im getting older
classes need attention
football should be done
but i twitch at the mention
football is a pain
it's losing what was fun
i want to quit i do
but im not quite done
i was the worst
no good at all
now that could change
but to rise id have to fall
if i stop i can't start
if i start i can't stop
im still at the bottom
oh so far from the top
if i quit now,
i can't start again
i'll fall far behind
there's no way ill win
but if i keep going
my grades may slip
and it's not even fun
so i have to get a grip
well whether i play
or i fall apart
football will stay
somewhere in my heart
I took my little boy
to  a nearby football pitch
He said he was tired
of playing hide and seek
He now wanted a football
to play around and kick
As he clutched my hand
I spoke to him
and tried to make him understand
the eleven rules of football
taking into consideration
that he was quite small
Now rule number one
Football is made of eleven strong men
When one or two are naughty
you may still get away
with playing nine or ten
Rule number two
When a member of your crew
hits the ball into the net
A goal is scored
that I can place a bet
For I am very sure
Rule number three
The maximum number of players
you can substitute is three
It does not cost a dime
It is totally free
Rule number four
There are rules you must comply with
When a team commits an offense
named a foul
before the game can commence
A small advantage has to be given
to the otherside
Rule number five
A freekick
is given after a foul
Sometimes awarded after
unnecessary dives
Rule number six
When you are shown a card that is yellow
Its time for your temper to mellow
or you will get the referee quite mad
and he will dismiss you with a red card
Rule number seven
A penality is like heaven
It is awarded
when a player breaks the rule
maybe by using his hand as a tool
to play the ball inside the penalty box
its time for him to go back to school
Rule number eight
A thrownin
Is when the ball is kicked out of the field
It's one of footballs favorite sins
Rule number nine
Offside is
When you are the only one running
alone to score a winning goal
you must hesitate
till you see a single soul
Rule number ten
A game lasts
for ninety minutes
You are beat
When your team has less goals than the other
That is when you must admit defeat
Rule number eleven
when your team is losing
you have to sing something amusing
saying
All we want is a goal
While we are dressed in coloured charcoal
Now my little boy
I said
These are the eleven rules of football
lets go and practise inside the sports hall
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
As the years grow harder
So do the choices
Should i listen to myself
Or listen to the voices
For over 3 years
Footballs been my thing
I've dealt with failure
I've pushed threw the sting
But now I'm getting older
Classes need attention
Football should be done
But i twitch a the mention
Football is a pain
It's losing what was fun
I want to quit i do
but I'm not quite done
I was okay not tall at all
Now that could change
But to rise I'd have to fall
If i stop i cant start
If i start i cant start
I'm still at the bottom
Oh so far from the top
If i quit now
I can't start again
I'll fall far behind
There's no way I'll win
But if i keep going
My grades will slip
And its not even fun
So i have to get a grip
Well whether i play
or fall apart
Football will stay
Somewhere in my heart
What a name called?
Football a game called,
To known arena called stadium,
Played eleven to eleven side to side each,
Formations of it kinds,
Aims of a two goal post net,
Aims of a trophy,
Aims of winning,
In a color Jersey of its kinds,
In a color booths of it kinds,
Side to side balls picking sons round,
Spectators sat rounding pitch watching,
Centered with a nominated referee officiating,
Lined with a two lines men flagged,
Officials of substitutions in questions,
Pronounced by named commentators,
Red and yellow cards rules in question,
Supported keys of volunteers,
Supported with all sorts of supporters,
Declared a stadium manager jobs,
Declared a team manager jobs,
Host  the nations, Host the world,
At  moment of a country designated!
At  moment of a country authorized!
Called for all practitioners....
Photographers, Cinematography, Press, Medias, Adverts, Sponsors, critics, etc. centred.
What a name called?
Football! football! ! football! ! !
A rounded leather circled!
Circled in its color of its choices,
Declared fifa authorities,
Declared statistical over all game,
Respect covered face to face,
Stretchers officials in uniforms of its officials medications,
Football a game called,
With boots of its kinds worn,
Saddled a whole lot supporters,
Saddled a whole lot analysts,
Presumption for a nation's glory,
Preemptive individuals' desirably for survival,
Football a game called,
Called to the passionate in spirit,
Football a game called,
Embrace understanding to unnamed,
Embrace love to unloved,
Embrace unity to diversities,
Embrace creativity to un-creativity,
Football a game called,
Adore a nature,
Football a game called,
Called to a glorious home,
Football a game called,
A rounded leather circled!
With boots of its played,
With jersey of its kinds,
With choices of many kinds,
Football a game called.
Let children play football or basketball.
They would experience camaraderie,
Team spirit and togetherness.
They would learn bearing failures and defeats
And abiding by rules and regulation.
They would develop reflex action
Necessary for spontaneous response.
They would develop a steel physique.
Let children waste in football or basketball.
17.06.2014
Here, a handful of hysterical men
Seeming to run aimless for endless hours
In a display of sweat-soaked endeavours,
The men that ah together only can.
Now fighting longer tenure of the ball,
Well past the goal-line thence in testing time,
Grit and guts, gumption getting mixed with grime,
O to hold whole beholding world in thrall.
This, whilst million squatters on cushioned chairs,
Millions of crazy, stiffly lazy bones
Called couch potatoes all with expert airs,
Sit immobile, limp like lifeless mile-stones,
Who, can well do with their own grit and gall,
But would much rather cheer than chase the ball.
________________________________________ ____________
Sonnets | 02.06.04 |
Of late little in our lives for to talk of at all
We can count ourselves lucky for to have football
For our after work get together in the local pub
For to talk of the fortunes of our favourite club
And discuss our team's chancesin the weekend game
Another win would bring themcloser to fame
This well may be their year for the Premiership flag
Would not this give us reason for to cheer and to brag
On Saturday our partners and wives at home watching t v
They do have their own favourite soapies to see
Whilst we cheer on our favourite team as they do play
It is each to their own as the wise one does say
A September flag win would be great for our self esteem
Without football to talk of we would be lost it does seem
Football to us a huge part of our lives
It gives us a break from the nagging of our partners and wives
Little of late for to talk of at all
Thanks be to goodness indeed for football
On Saturday the club colours we will proudly don
And go to the game for to cheer our team on.
Football fever
Gripping all over
Fierce battles
Fittingly fought
Triumphant team
Winning accolades
Late night parties
Crowded countrymen
Celebrations galore
Shining south africa
Dazzling lighting
Quizzing questions
Is it day in night!
I turnaround
Weeping west africa
Crying countrymen
Impoverished infants
Hunger stricken
Poverty at peak
Food ball fever
Gripping all over
Quizzing questions
Is it night in day!
Cross bars and posts, the echo of distant bells,
The cool and friendly scent of whispering turf;
And in the air a little wind that tells
Of moonlit waves beyond a murmuring surf.
The glittering blue and verdant afternoon
Has locked up all its colours, leaving dearth,
Deserted, underneath a careless moon,
The glory has departed from this earth.
The goals stand up on their appointed lines,
But all their worth has faded with the sun;
Unchallenged now I cross their strict confines;
The ball is gone, the game is lost and won.
I walk again where once I came to grief,
Crashing to earth, yet holding fast the ball,
Symbol of yet another True Belief,
The last but surely not the least of all:
To strain and struggle to the end of strength;
To lean on skill, not ask a gift of chance,
To win, or lose, and recognize at length
The game the thing; the rest, a circumstance.
And now the teams are vanished from the field,
But still an echo of their presence clings;
The moon discovers what the day concealed,
The gracefulness and grief of passing things.
Quick as the ball is thrown from hand to hand
And fleetly as the wing three-quarters run,
Swifter shall Time to his defences stand
And bring the fastest falling one by one,
Until the moon, that looked on Stonehenge ground
Before the stones, will rise and sink and set
Above this field, where also will be found
The relics of a mystery men forget.
(Grand Evangelical Mission,10th of May 2009, Agro Football Field, Davao City, commemorating the 123rd birth anniversary of Ka Felix Y. Manalo, God's last messenger)
Throngs of believers and non-believers
assembled together into one herd
to cheer not up spectacular soccer game
but to listen the Church of Christ
evangelical expose' aim
Caravans of jeeps, boats, buses alike
faithful followers, marching with streamers
peace-governing authority with shimmering light
of overwhelming joy and unifying gratitude
in celebrating God's last messenger
123rd birthday
Celebration's highlights unlike pagan feasts
nor mix with worldly dance, pleasure and flesh
but by grace of imparting God's messages
in these last days
spreading plain biblical doctrines and prophecies
the gospel of truth for those
who are willing to be saved
Literal thunderstorms
and season rains are showering
but they never defeats nor shakes
even by little drip of attempt
for the brethrens with stronghold aim
rain or shine
Grand Evangelical Mission begins
As the ball of faith
starts rolling
echoing beyond soccer goal team
innumerable blind-folded souls
have been awaken
* around 60,000 people attended this historical GEM
as reported by the local TV network (ABS-CBN Davao)
Football is a contact sport;
In short—a “rough” game.
It may leave you dancing,
Or it could leave you lame.
Armed with helmets, jerseys
And spandex tights—
All tough dudes,
Ready for the fight.
Digging in with spiked shoes,
And war paint on their face.
Staring down the adversary—
No mercy and no grace.
Tackles, hits and yard runs.
The scoring of “touchdowns, ”
With each team striving
For the coveted crown.
Whether dancing, banged or lame—
‘Tis the nature of the game.
And that’s okay with football fans,
They love it just the same.
Gladiators of the numbered turf
Helmeted heads and padded limbs
22 soldiers on the field
No more, no less, at any time
All have stadiums they call their homes.
Swift of foot and quick of mind
A scoreboard keeps the points and time
Score points by one, two, three or six
By passes, runs, punts or kicks
Winning brings them glory.
Most mother's want their son's to play
When son's are born their father's start to say
Where and when their son will play
Parents eagerly await those cherished fall days
When Football  is in season.
Upright goal posts at either end
Each team starts with their own direction
Weekly successes bring winning seasons
Sometimes the coaching can be the reason
The final scores tell the stories.
When January starts to draw near
The Championship games will soon be here
Fans are either elated or dismayed
To see if their teams get to play
and be this year's Gladiators in the Superbowl.
(January 23,2011  Wausau, Wisconsin)
(c)   Copyright 2011 by Christine A Kysely, All Rights Reserved
Like medieval knights
Armor clad, in fields battle
To reap victory
haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football
He is not getting on with his unhappy wife
His Football Club his diversion from his problems in life
He looks forward to the weekend through each working day
To cheer on his team such is life some do say.
He and his wife seem to have little in common at all
She does not have any interest in football
And their nineteen year old daughter is living elsewhere
Experiencing life in the big World out there.
With his mates in the pub football stories they share
A diversion for them from their every care
Than football no greater passion in their lives they can name
To them it is more far more than a game.
It would seem love in their marriage it is of the past
But then few things in life ever do seem to last
On saturday he barracks for his team whilst she
Is with her friend in the cafe enjoying afternoon tea.
A shooting ball is swooshing;
People in globe are watching.
On a sudden
Hails of cheers, vales of tears.
At losers' silence, winners're proud
Football is round.
In the humming of vuvuzel
Behind yellow and red card
All pass in the eyes of eagle
Nothing is impossible.
Football is round
For entertaining goal.
আমাদের মেসে ইমদাদ হক ফুটবল খেলোয়াড়,
হাতে পায়ে মুখে শত আঘাতের ক্ষতে খ্যাতি লেখা তার।
সন্ধ্যা বেলায় দেখিবে তাহারে পটি বাঁধি পায়ে হাতে,
মালিশ মাখিছে প্রতি গিঠে গিঠে কাত হয়ে বিছানাতে।
মেসের চাকর হয় লবেজান সেঁক দিতে ভাঙ্গা হাড়ে,
সারা রাত শুধু ছটফট করে কেঁদে কেঁদে ডাক ছাড়ে।
আমরা তো ভাবি ছমাসের তরে পঙ্গু সে হল হায়,
ফুটবল-টিমে বল লয়ে কভু দেখিতে পাব না তায়।
প্রভাত বেলায় খবর লইতে ছুটে যাই তার ঘরে,
বিছানা তাহার শূন্য পড়িয়া ভাঙা খাটিয়ার পরে।
টেবিলের পরে ছোট বড় যত মালিশের শিশিগুলি,
উপহাস যেন করিতেছে মোরে ছিপি- পরা দাঁত তুলি।
সন্ধ্যা বেলায় খেলার মাঠেতে চেয়ে দেখি বিস্ময়ে,
মোদের মেসের ইমদাদ হক আগে ছোটে বল লয়ে!
বাপ পায়ে বল ড্রিবলিং করে ডান পায়ে মারে ঠেলা,
ভাঙা কয়খানা হাতে পায়ে তার বজ্র করিছে খেলা।
চালাও চালাও আরও আগে যাও বাতাসের মত ধাও,
মারো জোরে মারো- গোলের ভেতরে বলেরে ছুঁড়িয়া দাও।
গোল-গোল-গোল, চারিদিক হতে ওঠে কোলাহলকল,
জীবনের পণ, মরণের পণ, সব বাঁধা, পায়ে দল।
গোল-গোল-গোল-মোদের মেসের ইমদাদ হক কাজি,
ভাঙা দুটি পায়ে জয়ের ভাগ্য লুটিয়া আনিল আজি।
দর্শকদল ফিরিয়া চলেছে মহা-কলবর করে,
ইমদাদ হক খোড়াতে খোড়াতে আসে যে মেসের ঘরে।
মেসের চাকর হয়রান হয় পায়েতে মালিশ মাখি,
বে-ঘুম রাত্র কেটে যায় তার চীৎকার করি ডাকি।
সকালে সকালে দৈনিক খুলি মহা-আনন্দে পড়ে,
ইমদাদ হক কাল যা খেলেছে কমই তা নজরে পড়ে।
Football match,
let us watch and enjoy
goal keeper's catch.
Football is my life
It can be dangerous as a knife
But if you have fun
Anything can be done
Every minute of it
Is worth every hit
Ever touch of the ball
Makes me recall
That goal
That makes football my soul
Caught that
Long bomb
But I
Screwed up?
Hall of fame?
School is out
For football
School's begun
For author
Dear God save me from my fate.
I’ve ravaged a whole plate of tacos,
wasn’t at all dainty or sweet;
I’m afraid the results won’t be discreet.
Crazy of me but it was getting late;
so I ate with gusto and zest
knowing later on it would
probably kill me at best.
Tonight it’s really hard to care.
I’m schlumped in my easy chair
ready to watch football playoffs
with a bottle of my favorite brew;
enjoy a much anticipated view.
I will most likely meet my justified end,
but, ahh-h-h, ………. what a way to go!
I loved to play football,
That night I dreamt that
I was tirelessly running and running with the ball
To score a goal,
But in spite of my utmost effort,
I failed to score it again and again,
Finally when I succeeded to score the spectacular goal,
I found that I had already lost the match,
All my efforts were in vain.
With Apologies to Oliver Twist and everybody else.
Football, glorious football.
Don't care what it looks like -.
Burned! Underdone! Crude!
Don't care what those crooks like.
Just thinking of growing fat.-
Our senses go reeling.
One moment of knowing that
Full-up feeling from sitting on
the couch!
Football, glorious football!
What wouldn't we give for
That extra bit more,
that's all that we should live for.
Why should we be fated
to do nothing but brood
on football,
magical football,
wonderful football,
marvelous football,
fabulous football,
beautiful football,
glorious football!
Just like a football I am and have
been bounced around a bit,
But only by chance of fate, no man
would get away with it.
The football suffers silently
the grabs, the throws, the kicks.
I'm not one to take that from
the country boobs or the city slicks.
I come from a line of strong women
who took on varying roles.
My grandma was a marcher
for equality at the poles.
Grandma raised her family of five
after her young husband died,
by sheer strong will and hard work
with no helpmeet by her side.
My paternal grandma must have been
a strong willed woman too.
She raised a very respectful son
who gave womenfolk their due.
My mama raised four strapping sons
without needing to raise a hand,
no slaps, no harsh words and no threats
to make them understand.
She passed down to her daughter
unrelenting self respect.
Rough handling me would surely bring
more grief than you'd expect.
So I'm not much like a football
nor would I ever be
an uncomplaining plaything
kicked around so endlessly.
Football is my favorite game
I love to watch them play -
Those tightly muscled butts and legs
On an awesome autumn day;
How fluidly and gracefully
They dance across the green -
Such elegant contenders play
The best I've ever seen;
Some people think I'm crazy
The way I love the game -
But I'd rather be watching football
Than anything I can name;
Of course I may be prejudiced
I love my maise and blue -
That BIG 10 team that rules the league.............
You rock the Big House - BLUE! ! !
I take the snap from the center, fake to the right, fade back...
I've got protection. I've got a receiver open downfield...
What the hell is this? This isn't a football, it's a shoe, a man's
brown leather oxford. A cousin to a football maybe, the same
skin, but not the same, a thing made for the earth, not the air.
I realize that this is a world where anything is possible and I
understand, also, that one often has to make do with what one
has. I have eaten pancakes, for instance, with that clear corn
syrup on them because there was no maple syrup and they
weren't very good. Well, anyway, this is different. (My man
downfield is waving his arms.) One has certain responsibilities,
one has to make choices. This isn't right and I'm not going
to throw it.
It is a sport.
Football
We are, both
-of same age
-old friends.
Our actions, behaviours
-are the banks of ocean
-world apart and unlike…
He is a couch-potato
-stares at screen
-days and nights
-and dreams of football.
Observer is he who
-in this way kills the time.
I, always on the run…
He, haunted by cancer
-I resist and fight it.
Most of the boys on my team are ashamed that a girl is on their team.
They have a lot of question like: why do you play football. Are you a men or what?
Well here is your answer: I play football because I love the sport.
I can get out on the field and I can be my self and I don’t have to hide myself.
I’m not scared to be out there yeah I know most of them are bigger but I’m not scared.
We all have are weak point.
The world doesn’t stop just because I play football.
Go ahead and speak your mind.
There nothing you can say to make me quite something I love to do.
My sister wrote don’t be ashamed of your self be ashamed of the people that are ashamed of you.
Now stop asking me.
Bands playing familiar songs.
The majorettes with their batons.
Cheerleaders wowing the crowds on.
And cheering fans—old and young.
Illumining the broad field,
The lights shine clear and bright;
And from the tall, slender poles—
They glisten through the night.
Teams pitted against each other,
Gearing up for the game:
An American favorite pastime—
Football is the name.
Football is played with heart
There will always be someone better than you
It is like life, you can get knocked down but you’re the one to make the decision to get up
Everybody gets knocked down but it is your decision to get back up and fight back
Spirit is like pride and team is like family
Your family at home is there to help you just like your team
Big or small winning is the option you just need spirit
Emotions are part of the game and make you strive for gold
One day will be the last time for you to put on pads
I just witnessed seniors putting their pads on for the last time
It made me realize great things come to an end
Late in the years I know I could go to any of them because they are my second family
He thought he had lost all his reason,
Cause a strike threatened the football season.
But Hank Jr. came on,
Just a singing his song,
Nothing Roger Goodell said, was as pleasing.
9/28/11 Alton Texas
Twenty-two fierce beasts
Strive to control one small ball
Move from end to end
Flesh and bone meets bone and flesh
At the end, one beats the other.
(January 21,2011  Wausau, Wisconsin)
(c)  Copyright 2011 by Christine A Kysely, All Rights Reserved
After stepping into the field
there is no way out
even before you start the game
you hear the fans shout
The players then sings their anthem
its football......
the most beautiful game.....
And when the whistle blows
the crowd starts their roar
in the 90 tensed minutes
the players got to score
Football is friendly only in name
because friendliness is not meant for football....
the most beautiful game....
So when the hard tackles go in
and injured fellow goes out
the crowd becomes furious
and starts to shout
Even after breaking one's leg
there seems to be no shame
because its football....
the most beautiful game....
In some ways humanity does not seem advanced at all
People in their physical prime tussling over possession of one football
They ought to get a football each with for to play
And for many it would be just as enjoyable for to watch anyway
People making a hero out of a person driving fast in a racing car
For a sport fanatic you need not walk that far
In fact no further than your local pub where on t v on a Saturday
They cheer when their favorite team their opponents outplay
If people were more interested in the welfare of Mother Earth than in sports we would have a better World to live in
A healthier Mother Earth for us all would be a great win
Huge amounts of money attending sporting and entertainment events people does spend
On causing pollution travelling to such events we are not Mother Earth's friend
Despite advancement in technology and science in some ways we are not advanced at all
Many go to watch young people competing for the possession of one football.
Football teaches you
teamwork; reaching goals in life
by striving to win
The greatest football catch got caught
By Odell Beckham, rookie pro.
He had run down the field a lot
To try to catch a real long throw.
Interfered with in his pursuit,
He got his right hand to the ball,
And three fingered the ball in route,
Pulling it in as he did fall,
Stretched backwards landing on his back,
Inside the end zone and in bounds.
Odell's got quite a catching knack,
And results in a touchdown - zounds!
Odell ode is called for on it.
Oh heck - it deserves a sonnet.
I told her that her two teams weren't playing
She said those were lies that I was saying,
Her ex had told her that the game was on today
As so did another friend of hers did say.
I showed and I again told her that there was no game
Again and again that statement I did truthfully proclaim,
But, my words she did not want to believe
Which broke my heart and made me sad and grieve.
I told her that we could watch another game here
She said "NO! " she'll watch with a friend and a beer,
So, I drove her to her friends house to watch the event
I watched the game alone at my house, while she was absent.
I guess in her mind I was the visiting team
As in my thoughts and her actions that is truly how it did seem,
That was for certain my final and truthful analysis
Sadly, the home town advantage was all of his.
She stayed at her male friend's house for a couple hours
While alone watching the game I wanted that time to be ours,
She then admitted to me that her two teams never played
So, instead at her friends she got laid.
Randy L. McClave
We stuffed our crotches into hometown pants.
Clacked on concrete out to mud and grass.
Hit each other.  Bled.  Got dizzy.
Sweat, got knocked down, got up,
got down, puked, hit each other, bled.
We were having fun.
I swear reasons existed then
for playing.  Honest I swear
there was a girl on the goal line
promising a slow dance.  A referee
waited to whistle me into manhood.
We were not good.
Often we had to buy the ball back
from the other team.  Once were down
forty points before the game began.
Our coach sold real estate at half-time.
Our cheerleaders hung us in effigy.
We pounded each other
until no one was left on either team.
The pads and helmets and shoes
went on grunting and blocking and tackling.
Fans stayed to see which set
of equipment would win.
We could hear that Homecoming crowd
roaring in the stadium
as we loaded the cars.  We drove
to the bus station, took
the midnight express out of there.
If you bring the team together, you can win any game - the game of football, the game of basketball, the game of life! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
In the floodlight lit football oval each weeknight after tea
I hear the young men shouting as they train diligently
As their coach puts them through their training drills their exuberance I hear
They sprint about in the chill night air in the coldest time of year.
Some of the young players under twenty they have their dreams of fame
That they yet may become famous in Australia's only indigenous game
To play in an Australian Football League Grand final would be a dream come true
A dream that's dreamt by many and realized by only a few.
In the well lit football oval they kick ball and sprint around
And in their endeavour to become match fit they cover miles of ground
And they perform push ups and pull ups and natural muscle in this way they gain
For one cannot expect sporting success if for success you do not train.
In the local football oval where dreams are born and die
The shoutings of the young men echoes to the starry sky
In the chill evening air of late Autumn you hear them cheer and shout
As they race through the oval and chase the ball about.
I hear them every evening from six thirty till after eight
In the local football oval five hundred metres from my front gate
The town's young budding football stars not quite yet in their prime
And they dream of sporting greatness that will withstand the test of time.
Cornhuskers college football game,
Fourth quarter and time almost out,
A 7 year old - Jack's his name,
Touch downed the hearts of all - no doubt!
The how and why of Jack then there
Was for the what was good for Jack.
Handed the ball, he ran through air,
Sixty nine yards, not looking back.
Sixty thousand fans, none dry eyed,
Watched Jack score and a win, welcome.
And Jack won hearts of all worldwide,
And Jack's feelings, 'It was awesome.'
Jack ran and scored, troubles behind,
His brain cancer not on his mind.
Life is like a football game
When you score a goal, you must play hard to defend it
And even harder to score more goals,
If you concede a goal,
You have to put all your energy to equalize
And score a winner.
If you score a goal and become complacent, your opponent
Will come from behind and give you a surprise…
If you lose hope because you conceded a goal,
Then you are a loser because you will concede more goals.
The spectators support tantamount the effort
you put in the game.
If you win the match, they become part of
The winning team,
If you lose, they will make do with the
Satisfaction of an entertaining game,
If you go down fighting,
They will always find a reason for your
Losing the game,
And to lose a match becomes a lesson on how to win next one.
.
©2000
Like football in verse keep the ball
Low on the ground, low, low, low.
Then in more than a language will
The meaning of the verse light.
And then the heavens will light –
And after reign of Night at Dawn.
In a pub all the channels were on football
But there was a guy with no interest at all
He was asked; who’s winning?
He replied; dunno who’s playing?
He only knew when his beer was due for a call
My little son plays football in a little league
his coordination is of a new born foal, his colleagues
on is almost the same as his
yet they score a lot of goals.
This amazing feat I never see in any league.
After dividing ourselves
And having dressed
In near angelic whiteness
Do we stroll upon the field
We shout our guttural cries
Ritual insults as required
By the customs of the game
The we gather to our respective sides
And with a kick of pigskin
We are off
Flurries of muck
Marking our trails
As we enthusastically charge
Throwing ourselves into fray
Bodies collide and fall
Sliding through the ooze
That we play upon
No one keeps score
For victory is not our aim
Merely to enjoy the day
Embracing each other at the end
Since no matter what went before
We are all the same color now
Having acheived a muddy equality
-STD '98
YOU can keep your antique silver and your statuettes of bronze,
Your curios and tapestries so fine,
But of all your treasures rare there is nothing to compare
With this patched up, wornout football pal o’ mine.
Just a patchedup wornout football, yet how it clings!
I live again my happier days in thoughts that football brings.
It’s got a mouth, it’s got a tongue,
And oft when we’re alone I fancy that it speaks
To me of golden youth that’s flown.
It calls to mind our meeting,
’Twas a present from the Dad.
I kicked it yet I worshipped it,
How strange a priest it had!
And yet it jumped with pleasure
When I punched it might and main:
And when it had the dumps
It got blown up and punched again.
It’s lived its life;
It’s played the game;
Its had its rise and fall,
There’s history in the wrinkles of that wornout football.
Caresses rarely came its way in babyhood ’twas tanned.
It’s been well oiled, and yet it’s quite teetotal, understand.
It’s gone the pace, and sometimes it’s been absolutely bust,
And yet ’twas always full of bounce,
No matter how ’twas cussed.
He’s broken many rules and oft has wandered out of bounds,
He’s joined in shooting parties
Over other people’s grounds.
Misunderstood by women,
He was never thought a catch,
Yet he was never happier
Than when bringing off a match.
He’s often been in danger
Caught in nets that foes have spread,
He’s even come to life again
When all have called him dead.
Started on the centre,
And he’s acted on the square,
To all parts of the compass
He’s been bullied everywhere.
His aims and his ambitious
Were opposed by one and all,
And yet he somehow reached his goal
That plucky old football.
When schooling days were ended
I forgot him altogether,
And ’midst the dusty years
He lay a crumpled lump of leather.
Then came the threat’ning voice of War,
And games had little chance,
My brother went to do his bit
Out there somewhere in France.
And when my brother wrote he said,
‘Of all a Tommy’s joys,
There’s none compares with football.
Will you send one for the boys? ’
I sent not one but many,
And my old one with the rest,
I thought that football’s finished now,
But no he stood the test.
Behind the lines they kicked him
As he’d never been kicked before.
Till they busted him and sent him back
A keepsake of the war.
My brother lies out there in France,
Beneath a simple cross,
And I seem to feel my football knows my grief,
And shares my loss.
He tells me of that splendid charge,
And then my brother’s fall.
In life he loved our mutual chum
That worn-out football.
Oh you can keep your antique silver
And your statuettes of bronze
Your curios and tapestries so fine
But of all your treasures rare
There is nothing to compare
With that patched-up worn-out football—
Pal o’ mine.
When we first met we didn't,
it wasn't on the menu.
Of course it had me curious
I gave it much attention.
In April we indulged,
we were so very proud,
bouncing on the sofa
we did it in the lounge!
Later, in July
there was a time, I think
when we hit all the high notes
a few times by the sink.
In Autumn he got lazy
all this just had him spent
so I baked him pastries
and he ate those instead.
New Year was so merry
we drunk all Daddy's Sherry
I think perhaps we did it,
I wasn't really with it.
Last time was the best
and lasted quite a while
it was in Central Park
We had a bloomin' lark.
These days we just don't,
he's got so fat and heavy,
except for when we're bored
and no football's on the telly.
When the feet kiss the ball,
for all tackles u make,
divine is the feel,
for FOOTBALL is the game,
hell lot of energy,
but passion it demands,
to master the game,
& have its command,
There it goes, into the net,
with a slight li'l bend,
all celebrate, and u get it all,
what all you commend,
with all your strength,
you embrace the ball,
and your timely interception,
saves the GOAL! ! ! ! ! ,
completely exhausted of the effort,
yet, you make the run,
coz the feel of the BALL is gr8,
and feeling it is gr8 fun,
what all it means,
only, a fanatic understands,
no matter whether he is playing,
or is sitting in the stands,
Abhi plays Beckham,
Gopi is Carlos,
Rambo is Maradonna,
and on..., the feel goes...
we have it in our blood,
we have it in our soul,
so are we,
OBSESSED WITH FOOTBALL......
(dedicated to the most beautiful game i have ever played....... I m lovin it.......)
They celebrate in the Commercial and Mickey Bourke's pub
The marvellous win of Koroit Saints Football Club
The Warrnambool Blues the pride of Warrnambool Town
In the Football Grand Final to the red and black went down
To the memory of such a victory Koroit fans will cling dear
They will celebrate well into next year
The Grand Final win to the Town has brought cheer
They do celebrate there in spirits and beer
From shop and house windows red and black balloons and bunters in the wind blow
Their great love of Koroit all koroitians do show
And well do they have reason to celebrate
Their present footballers with Koroit's best do rate
Their 09 Premiership for them a huge victory
Something that is destined to live in memory.
For the Cork Gaelic Footballers another humbling defeat
By their neighbours Kerry in Croke Park once more they've been beat
In Gaelic Football in Ireland Kerry to the fore
With 36 All Ireland titles and their fans hoping for more.
My mum was from Kerry that I cannot deny
But why it aches me when Cork lose a big game I do wonder why?
Though long absent from Ireland a sense of parochialism I do retain
Some-things from our past always with us do remain.
But Kerry fans with their 09 All Ireland victory need not get carried away
As their hurlers are quite poor though that does seem a sad thing for to have to say
Like Kilkenny Ireland's premier hurling County Kerry G A A rankings low
The lowest even in Munster as all G A A fans do know.
For the Liam Mcarthy Cup Kerry Hurlers never allowed for to play
For that not deemed to be good enough by the administrators of the G A  A
Like the Kilkenny Footballers Kerry Hurlers amongst the lowly rate
Though their many Football victories their fans have to celebrate.
Kerry are 09 All Ireland  Senior Football Champions their neighbours Cork they did outplay
In Croke Park in Dublin Ireland on September's third sunday
But Cork the only winners of the Hurling and Football double for them an amazing feat
With Ireland best Football and Hurling Counties at the highest level do compete.
Our teacher's a football fanatic.
It's all that he has on his mind.
He listens to games on his headphones,
and frets when his team is behind.
He jumps up and down with they're winning.
He screams when they fumble a pass.
We know we're supposed to be reading,
but watching him's simply a gas.
Our principal walked in on Friday,
and he was too angry to speak.
Our substitute started on Monday.
Our teacher's been benched for a week.
Perfect on my imperfection, you fall:
I close my eyes but you are real, traveling
Effortlessly up your hills and then
Down,
Basking all the dogs, and their stones so
Round;
And I’ve made up these words to disavow you,
But you are not something I can take out to eat;
So you are real,
And I lie the last of my bouquets at your feet;
And my parents are so lonely after your passing;
It’s as if you’ve taken the last airplane,
But my grandmother lies unweeping the kinder
Weathers of her kind:
They are the kind that used to know you, but
Will know you no more,
And they are all the kind that I’ve been waiting for;
And you slip over my head like a child in
A dress;
And you go over the sea, and the women in their
Cars:
You go so far as to come around again
To watch me playing football in my graveyard.
Foot
Ball,
Head,
Goal;
Don't hand, foul or
Break rules to out.
About
RARe Stanza:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
6 Lines Poem ─
Syllables Meter: 1-1-1-1-4-4
Rhyme Scheme: aabbca; ababca; aaaaba.
RARe Stanza refers Right Angle Reza Stanza.
Geometric Theoretical Explanation of ‘RARe Stanza'
The 1st 4 (1-1-1-1) lines stand on the last 2 (4-4) lines,
At the joining point, line No. 4 and 5 there the 90º angle is generated;
The 90º angle is known as Right Angle in Geometry.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │ 14 June, 2018
Net to net rolls the ball
with the feet fast they scroll
the kicks find the bar too small
too hard to score a goal!
Sweats it out the forward
saves it tough the one at back
like a fort he must guard
not allow a crack!
On the grass no guide or map
rely on footwork skill
pierce the defense find the gap
go for the lethal kill!
The ball if once finds the net
stop breath a million soul
mourns the side in sealed fate
the air is rend with GOAL! ! ! !
Drive men, drive!
Get the freaking ball!
That’s it, now go.
Fling it, throw the damned thing!
From the reserve bench
the game is rushing by
and both flanks, the centre, the lock
almost every member of the team
are taking huge knocks and still
nobody is really getting hurt.
A dropp goal soars through the poles,
followed by a brilliant try
and the crowd are standing, are cheering
when the confirmation kick
is delivered securely.
The opponents are really angry,
starts to play dirty,
with reckless foal play,
high tackling
and gets a penalty kick
that is on the mark
and then the lock is hurt,
trampled under boots
and the manager
points to me
and while the crowd cheers
I run on to the field.
The whistle blows
and in full pace I run in line
catching the ball that is flung to me
and the game is on,
the crowd roars while I sidestep
two tackles and see the line
and every thing is blurring
and time is fragmented
into splits of seconds
and I am flying at speed
trying to touch down.
Oh wow! Seems like every channel has the exact same story,
The most storybook football program has tarnished it’s glory,
At the Mighty Penn State where the winningest coach resides,
Amidst allegations of child sexual abuse the emotions runs high.
Did he or did he not, why wasn’t more done to help protect?
Those in a program designed to rise above hurt and neglect,
Started by an assistance coach whose job was the defense,
Not designed to recruit the adolescent under false pretense.
Joe Paterno has the most football wins by a college coach,
Supposedly his 2 national title program is above reproach,
But, just like the sex abuse scandal within the Boy Scouts,
Along with that powerful Catholic Church, better look out.
The names of the innocent victims abused are at least nine,
And amazingly over a known period of 12-15 years time,
Not through innuendo, hearsay or speculation it was seen,
Yet like the Catholic Church more important was the green.
Again dead presidents again took priority over child welfare,
Under those in authority whose main responsibility is to care,
One 60-year-old man naked with a likewise 10-year-old boy,
Alone it the shower on campus, like a toddler with a new toy.
To do whatever he willed over the child unable to fight back,
How many times before & since helpless when under attack?
But wait this time there’s an eyewitness of the dastardly deed,
Still it’s to no avail because in athletics the bottom line is greed.
Many who knew actually lied to the Grand Jury, okay let’s see,
High-ranking officials resigned & the president of the university?
As the nation ponders who is the next to beheaded by the axe?
Explain why the focus is on football not victims, what a sad fact.
So, should the man who passed the buck be allowed to coach?
Is not the Cardinal who overlooked mass rape now the Pope?
We need a real life Terminator to protect kids like John Connor,
Those who have Arnold’s role failed miserably, Scout’s Honor.
Spanish dance,
Spanish Football,
And like the muse of your love in the land of the Flamingos! !
But, the legs won the game;
Oh yes, winning the World Cup and the European Cup.
Life is like one big road with lots of signs!
So, don not complicate your mind when you drive along;
For, i've got a job to do as well.
Strike the ball in speedy split seconds,
Snap and chase the ball like life's only chance,
Get the ball in space defying moments,
Grab the goal like a miraculous dance.
Mbappe, the new football sensation,
Magnificent kid, just nineteen years,
Most expensive teenage player of France,
Motivating his fans with a display of skills.
A race for the world cup
Argentina's Lionel Messi
And Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo,
Alas! Make their shocking exit!
Cavani of Uruguay crushes Ronaldo's dream run,
Chasing the ball at full throttle, with
Charming demeanour of a Ferrari,
Changing the tide of the football fever!
Game of forward motion - kick and score,
Game of vibrant commotion - quick and active,
Game of constant evolution - lively and exciting.
Game of joyful promotion - cheerful and delightful.
The stands are full of eager fans
Who say, we're paid too much money!
But if they would put our suits on
They'd find football isn't funny.
Twenty-two men and five referees
Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball.
Mashing and bashing all the way
Till the striped shirts whistle their call.
All the generals on the sideline
Are waging their athletic war.
And the letters in the words they use
Never amount to more than four.
There's no substitute for winning
And no excuse for losing.
Though after games; when we can't sleep
It's because of all the bruising.
By Tom Zart
Tom's 916 Poems Are Free To Share!
By God's Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
SUPER BOWL FOOTBALL
The stands are full of eager fans
Who say, we're paid too much money!
But if they would put our suits on
They'd find football isn't funny.
Twenty-two men and five referees
Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball.
Mashing and bashing all the way
Till the striped shirts whistle their call.
All the generals on the sideline
Are waging their athletic war.
And the letters in the words they use
Never amount to more than four.
There's no substitute for winning
And no excuse for losing.
Though after games; when we can't sleep
It's because of all the bruising.
Tom's 601 Poems Are Free To Share!
By God's Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
Suppose football does serve a purpose some males do need other interests in their lives
Than working or drinking of alcohol or arguing with or making love to their girl friends or wives
On saturday they go to the football to cheer on their team win or lose
'Tis better for them than going to the local and wasting their money on the booze
At least watching football they won't be losing brain cells as they do when they are on the grog
And next day feeling nauseated and hung over and as sick as a very sick dog
Their partners and wives happy to see them going to the football for to support their football club
They feel that for them it is far better than guzzling down grog at the pub
In football there can be disappointments when your team does not win the game
But for every winner there is a loser and to lose should never be a shame
There's more to life than grog and work and women there is that marvellous game known as football
To you and many others 'tis a passion and your team to you is the greatest team of all.
The 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia was a terrific event.
Thirty two teams came together to celebrate sportsmanship,
Of course, there were a few tackles, yellow and red cards. Ships,
Planes and busses full of fans, (I am kidding) , came under the tent
Of brotherhood to compete under the flag of their respective country.
Gotcha! Check the statistics to find out how many countries have competed.
I'm not going to do your assignment for you tonight. The fans were elated,
When there was a goal, even though the penalty shootouts weren't funny;
Especially, when your team got lost. The big headlines were Mexico beat Germany,
On the first round. Italy and the USA did not qualify. Brazil got beat by Belgium.
Argentina, Spain, Senegal, Japan and many others got lost.Bring the beer, the rum,
The wine and the pretzels to celebrate. At the end, there were four countries left to play
In the stadium. In the finals, France beat Belgium, and England was defeated by Croatia.
For a month, we watched and enjoyed great football matches. Almost every day,
I was stationed at my television. That was a nice party, a wonderful gala.
I will never forget the best World Cup ever. Oh! I missed seeing Pele, the greatest
Football player ever, who is now seventy seven years old. That was the best
Time to be alive. The final game was on a Sunday; Croatia got beat by France.
The score was four goals against two goals. Vive la France! Vive la difference!
The players from both teams received medals, which were handed out by Putin,
The President of Russia and other dignitaries. The P.M. of Croatia, a gorgeous woman,
And Macron, the French President greeted the players and the coaching staff.
There was jubilation. Everybody had a great time. We had fun and we laughed.
That was the best football/soccer competition ever.
Hopefully, the Qatar World Cup, in 2022, will be better.
Copyright © July 15,2018, Hébert Logerie, All rights reserved
Hébert Logerie is the author of several collections of poems.
Transformed into
The petroglyphs
Before the songbirds who
Are out for no reason,
Dancing winged-
Songs stirred for the
Absence of housewives
With no more reason to
Love me;
The earth pushed a little,
Displaced from its godhoods
And toward catastrophe-
Dying a little the way the
Forest of angels
Drink sea salt- talk up
A little around
Graveyards- underneath power lines-
Why the sky is all blue
A little
F$cked up- punched in the face,
Like the crepuscule of football games
And I have nothing to
Remember how she feels
All asleep in his bed
While the ribald he rhyming burns-
And the roaming mouths of airplanes sing.
Around his bed his friends and family but of them he's not aware
His life's journey about to end old Joe the ex footballer player
On his back his eyes closed to his surroundings the life from him ebbing away
Last month he celebrated his eightieth birthday and today his life's final day.
Pre-deceased by his wife Mel she died five years ago
The last two years of his life's journey for him painful and slow
Most of those he played with and against in his football years to the Reaper long gone
But like the battler that he is to the end he's battling on.
Fifty five years ago the Captain of the great Premiership team
By football fans from near and far he was held in high esteem
But time takes care of everyone and everyone means all
And time has also taken toll of the champion of football.
Around his bed his friends and family a silent vigil keep
The end of his life's journey no more than an hour away he is in his final sleep
'Tis a fact those who love life do find it hard to die
But 'tis also a fact that all human beings are mortals and facts do never lie.
The beauty of the golden days,
Where the great adventure began,
On a field where we all sang,
Sang cheerfully with our fans,
We were head on head,
We had a solid back,
A positioned middle
And a stronger front,
The score was one all,
The previous goals were jokes,
They were just shots without effect,
Hits without desire
We try scoring but fail,
They attack we defend,
We push hard but regret it at the end,
The match was too even that it couldn't be decided,
A substitution occurred,
Leaving us in shock,
Leaving us blank minded,
Leaving us distracted with our thoughts,
It seemed like nothing mattered anymore,
We are champions now forever more,
Not a single soul would be able to take it from us,
But oh how I was wrong about that,
Kind of candlestick in the mud-
Hoary light in the swamp
Turning undone,
As the housewives moan like alley cats in their
Beds of predestination:
As they seem for awhile lost, pill bugs underneath
The covers,
As their pools glow altogether as if infected diamonds-
And their canals move slower
Filled to the brim with narcoleptic mermaids
And the fabershe cenotaphs of likeminded conquistadors:
See how the moon glowers over their
Strange visage swimming in the mud:
Each one with a candle undone just beneath the skim-
As the tadpoles dance
Innocent of what they will become,
And the minnows wander around aimlessly perhaps
Dreaming of the footballs games of your tomorrow.
Most of those who knew him thought he was not good enough
He could not measure up when the going  did get tough
In the Grand Final he wilted under pressure with the game to be won
When he could have become the town's favourite son.
On the final siren he did take the mark that should have won the game
And he had the chance for to make for himself a name
Thirty metres out straight in front of the posts his side two points down
Had he kicked a goal he'd be toast of the town.
His poorly placed kick slightly curled in the wind
And went through the one point posts to record a behind
From the opposition fans a thunderous roar
By a single point their team had kicked the winning score.
After that disappointment last September he gave football away
In his life's twenty first year he'll be twenty two in May
But the past it has gone can't keep a good one down
And this week he is the hero of the town.
At the fire in Donello's house a boy's cry for help he did hear
At the risk of great danger to his life he conquered the fear
He went into the flames and dragged nine year old Franscesco out
When true courage was needed his was not in doubt.
Mr and Mrs Donello lost their home to the fire but their son's life he did save
In the gap of danger only the bravest are brave
He saved a young life which is more important than all of the Grand Finals ever played
Yet for him for that there won't be a parade.
Football jocks- they allow nothing to get in their way
Girls hearts they’d break every day.
What is a heart? But tissue and mass.
They’ll get over it, it will pass.
Life is a game and we play it to our best
If girls can’t cope then give it a rest.
Love is like football and it has
many tactics that we must learn
and along the way people get burned.
They tend to dropp their hearts
and it shatters on the ground
But someone will pick up the pieces
Whatever could be found.
We are the jocks with one goal in mind
“ to win” every turn and every time.
We are the cheerleaders of the team
We get the fans to jump and scream.
We give you guys moral support
With out us your fans would abort.
You think because you’re  football jocks
That all the women s clocks must stop.
Well! We have a surprise for you
Without us you wouldn’t know what to do.
As for our hearts shattering on the ground
My friend! You better turn and look around.
You see!    LOVE IS NOT!    A football game
And no heart remains the same
You are about to get your dues
For we know exactly what to do.
You may be great on the football field
But our hearts, you will not steal.
You can not get in our heads
nor can you get us in your beds.
The football legend
Pele could play like magic
With his skill and style
I.
O wild kaleidoscopic panorama of jaculatory arms and legs.
The twisting, twining, turning, tussling, throwing, thrusting,
throttling, tugging, thumping, the tightening thews.
The tearing of tangled trousers, the jut of giant calves protuberant.
The wriggleness, the wormlike, snaky movement and life of it;
The insertion of strong men in the mud, the wallowing, the stamping with thick shoes;
The rowdyism, and élan, the slugging and scraping, the cowboy Homeric ferocity.
(Ah, well kicked, red legs! Hit her up, you muddy little hero, you!)
The bleeding noses, the shins, the knuckles abraded:
That's the way to make men! Go it, you border ruffians, I like ye.
II.
Only two sorts of men are any good, I wouldn't give a cotton hat for no other --
The Poet and the Plug Ugly. They are picturesque. O, but ain't they?
These college chaps, these bouncing fighters from M'Gill and Toronto,
Are all right. I must have a fighter, a bully, somewhat of a desperado;
Of course, I prefer them raw, uneducated, unspoiled by book rot;
I reckon these young fellows, these howling Kickapoos of the puddle, these boys,
Have been uneducated to an undemocratic and feudal-aristocratic extent;
Lord! how they can kick, though! Another man slugged there!
III.
Unnumbered festoons of pretty Canadian girls, I salute you;
Howl away, you non-playing encouragers of the kickers!
Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, Rah, M'Gill!
Rah, Rah, Rah, Sis, Boom, Toronto! Lusty-throated give it!
O, wild, tumultuous, multitudinous shindy. Well, this is the boss;
This is worth coming twenty miles to see. Personally, I haven't had so much fun
since I was vaccinated.
I wonder if the Doctor spectates it. Here is something beyond his plesiosauri.
Pure physical glow and exultation this of abundantest muscle:
I wish John Sullivan were here.
IV.
O, the kicking, stamping, punching, the gore and the glory of battle!
Kick, kick, kick, kick, kick, kick.  Will you kick!
You kickers, scoop up the mud, steam plough the field,
Fall all over yourselves, squirm out! Look at that pile-driver of a full-back there!
Run, leg it, hang on to the ball; say, you big chump, don't you kill that little chap
When you are about it.
Well, I'd like to know what a touch down is, then?  Draw?
Where's your draw?
Yer lie!
It’s raining all day!
The kids are playing football –
They just love to play!
Into your houses that stand for nothing—popcorn light
That gets blinded on the 4th of July
While I steal the lonely bicycle from your garage:
And I was your high school teacher for a week
While the rain melted the cages of your suburban harpies:
And they got up and spied
And spied upon the real world like a buffet:
And you grew older, tending to know older men from their
Various aircraft carriers—maybe even you spied one
The you even fancied to love until you decided that you
Had to look away and away—
Until you midnight happened that very September, while
All of your teachers were writing poetry except for the one
That never was—
And I right to you on this night approaching the first
Day of autumn—already the world is old and virtually
Defeated—looking for our heroes, I cannot say where
They have gone—I only know that they've taken
Their time to fend off the everyday monsters just so you
Can go to class tomorrow—following the shadows of
The football players you pretend to love.
In the retinue of
The carrion and paper airplanes
Contrived-
Careening forwards through the
Madness of
Dishonor-
The waves like the
Zygotes of misinformed poltergeists;
Until irretrievably other
Avenues
With friends and
Lights
Offering sweet fruits buttered with meats
At the doorsteps of
The wildfires of unresolved holidays-
Already smothered underfoot,
And carefully dishonored,
Blinded-
The diamonds of a unrequited
Nest,
Pilfered to the aeries of
Amnesiac stewardesses;
And in this way misplaced forever
Into the firmament of
Simulacrum and marionettes
Holding their breath futilely as she drives away
Without a second look down the highway
Of a football player’s boredom.
Their flags and their banners they are waving with joy and excitement they shout
The hero has kicked the winning goal but what are they shouting about
To them it should not really matter 'tis only a game of football
But to them it is very important and their's is the best team of all.
At least that is how they do see it their lives revolves around their team
When their team win a huge boost to their egos and a loss bad for their self esteem
Last week their team lost in a thriller but their loss reduced them to tears
And tonight they will sing their Club song in the Local and celebrate with a few beers.
They look forward to the football Season and they live for the love of the game
And on their bedroom walls a poster sized photograph of their heroes and they know every player by name
Why do they take football so serious they talk about it at work every day
But suppose each of us have our own passions and each to their own one might say.
Their flags and their banners they are waving as proudly they sing their Club song
And they look forward to next weekend's game each day till then for them too long
Their football team to them important their lives revolve around the game
And each time their heroes are defeated the umpires for the loss they will blame.
I've often found it quite baffling
People’s immense love for a sport
That’s nothing more than ball handling
And a thunderous crowd of rare support.
Male and female, old and young
The spirit takes over their hearts and souls
Holding them captive, and quite overhung
Until the scoring of the goals.
Have you noticed the deserted streets
On a day a match is to be played?
Have you observed the loud drumbeats
That accompanies a team-win parade?
I ask myself, is this love or is this obsession?
Is this fan sell-out without discretion?
That a ball-engage in a ninety minute session
Would elicit from so many, such weighty expression.
Football binds the country, they're quick to say
Football is an antidote for dismay
Whether to watch or whether to play
Football reigns every day.
At this point, there’s nothing more that I can say
Other than pass the ball, and let us play
Football it is any day
Football it is all the way.
We all love and applaud the winners
As we feel sorry for the losers
We love women, without them, we're nobody
Women are the fruits and the gems of our society
Whoopee! Congratulations to the USA Women's Soccer Team
For winning their fourth World Cup. This is a dream
For everybody to be champions
This is an outstanding accomplishment
Let's all enjoy this wonderful moment
Hurrah! Yippee! These women are heroes of actions
We are proud of them. They deserve at least equal pay
For equal work. I pray that nothing stands in their way
Thank you for the great soccer/football skills
That you have shown throughout the tournament
In France.Your ladies are lovely, winsome and elegant
You inspire me and give me enough energies and chills
To never give up, to work hard or to strive to succeed
May God grant all good health to survive and to lead!
Copyright © July 2019, Hébert Logerie, All rights reserved
Hébert Logerie is the author of several books of poetry.
This is the football Season it is that time of year
When men in the pub talk football as they enjoy their beer
And look forward to September when one club will fly the winner's flag
The team that wins the Premiership gives their fans the right to brag.
Their wives nicknamed the footy widows their husbands at the football club
Or after work talking football with their mates down at the local pub
They take football so seriously 'tis their passion in life
The footy fan loves his football club as much as his children or his wife.
And if their team lose at the weekend they feel and look so sad
What's known as football addiction they seem to have it bad
They feel sad for their football team and the chance of four premiership points gone
But they cheer up and look forward to next weekend's game as the working week wears on.
This is the football Season football has gone to their head
And their football scarves and beanies they even wear to bed
About their team they feel so passionate as if to them it did belong
And 'tis with delight and pride in victory that they sing the club song.
SUPER BOWL FOOTBALL
The stands are full of eager fans
Who say, we're paid too much money!
But if they would put our suits on
They'd find football isn't funny.
Twenty-two men and five referees
Chasing a pigskin, air filled ball.
Mashing and bashing all the way
Till the striped shirts whistle their call.
All the generals on the sideline
Are waging their athletic war.
And the letters in the words they use
Never amount to more than four.
There's no substitute for winning
And no excuse for losing.
Though after games; when we can't sleep
It's because of all the bruising.
AMERICAN SOLDIER POEM
It’s not a priest that gives us our freedom of religion
And it’s not a reporter that gives us our freedom of voice.
It’s not any judge, lawyer, politician, or teacher
But the blood of a soldier that has sacrificed by choice.
Our soldiers line up to be remembered
As the best of the best at their job.
They wish to be needed and depended on
To save all we love from the mob.
They risk their life and limb for liberty
Standing firm against evil unwilling to break.
To be part of something greater than themselves
They are willing to sacrifice whatever it will take.
Tom Zart’s 601 Poems Are Free To Share To Teach Or Show Love And Support!
By God’s Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
To Listen To Tom Zart’s Poems Go To =
http: //new.pivtr.com/en/? schedule/tom-zart/
www.billcrain.net/? musicpage.htm
http: //? www.veteranstodayforum.com/? viewforum.php? f=38
'Tis football is the big World game of today
Grid Iron the big game of the U S of A,
Rugby League, Rugby Union and Aussie Rules Football
And soccer the biggest World game of them all
Gaelic Football a field game the Irish do play
Football in it's many codes the big World game of today
Football supporters Worldwide their team and their club colours wear
And in International games in their National colours they even dye their hair
Some men love their football team as much as their parents, children or wives
Yes football is one of the great loves of their lives
When their team does win the club song they do sing
But a loss to their weekend great sadness does bring
All over the World many codes of football
And to each their own code the best game of all.
To be good at football assures one of local fame
Though outside of your hometown yours is not a known name
For there is quite a difference between good and great
And outside of their hometown local heroes few know of to celebrate
The difference between local, national and Worldwide is huge one can say
And the local heroes as the local heroes do stay
Until the local heroes slow beyond their physical prime
And eventually the local heroes do lose out to time
To be good at football in your hometown
Assures you for awhile of local renown
But the fame of the local heroes in time fades away
And there are young local football heroes in the town today
It does not take that much to be a local hero at all
Since many become local heroes for being good at football.
Well...
You can
kick it you can catch
it you can bounce it - all
around. You can grab it you can
pat it you can roll it - on the ground.
You can throw it you can head it you
can hit it - with a bat. You can biff it
you can boot it you can spin it you
can shoot it you can drop it
you can stop it - just
like that!
Why do you love football?
What do you see in it?
Why not watch another sport
Like Rugby, Golf, or Cricket?
Well let me answer that my friend
And put your mind at rest
I love the beautiful game
Because it's simply the best
No other sport is as exciting
No other comes anywhere near
Football can create passion
And lots of atmosphere
It is loved all around the world
Most children kick a football
Rich kids, and poor kids
small kids, and some very tall
A good football match is a joy to watch
That's why thousands go to every game
When you get goals and lots of action
All the fans are so glad that they came
So yes my friend I do love football
It's by far the number one sport for me
So while you're watching Golf and Cricket
I'll be watching Match of the Day, or Man U F.C.
Being alert
says an expert
till the last seconds
That's about the present
world championship football
now still going on in Russia
Thinking of the match of yesterday
Japan thinks it wins from Belgium hurray!
this team will go to the Quarterfinal
But Japan became inassertive
Belgium changes a tired player with a temporary one
it's all in the game, but Japan must still be assertive
in the last five seconds Japan's victory has gone
that Belgium's temporary player
had gained that victory, now he has become a top player
Belgium goes to the quarterfinal
utmost glee because of this
most specially exceptional
That's why being alert will not suffice
being assertive is the only option all there is
five whole seconds before the signal of the umpire
a temporary player has set the Belgium team on fire!
with 3-2 they may still stay in the Russia sans wire.
© Sylvia Frances Chan
Monday the 2nd of July 2018-
Afternoon, West European Time.
Victory day for the Belgium team
=====================================
ADDITION:
Japan VS Belgium 2-3 Victory for the Belgium Team.
IF I may SAY: The Team of Japan must still be attentive, be alert and especially BE ASSERTIVE. Japan must still keep attacking the Belgian goal and must still have that behaviour as in WW II, aggressive and
all. They lost because of their own fault, it looked like they were awaiting the end signal of the umpire. YES, I have watched them too,
otherwise I could not create this poem and tell you all these here as my Notes. BE ASSERTIVE and BE ACTIVE, WATCH and OBSERVE CONSTANTLY, till the final signal of the umpire.
In Dutch we say: "Eigen schuld, dikke bult" It is an idiom, so no
suitable translation.
Created with punctuality and love for the sport
© Sylvia Frances Chan
Dutch Poetess
Evangelist
World Traveler
Photographer
Monday the 2nd of July 2018-
Afternoon, West European Time.
Victory day for the Belgium teamADDITION:
you and i
met not long ago
you and i
were a thing of love
we were idolized by all
then the day came
you cheated on me
with the football team
what happened?
to you and i?
i didnt expect you to do this
i let my guard fall
and now as the open woulds bleed through
my heart cant take any more
but as the days go on without you
the wounds do not close
do not heal
my heart weakens more and more
then i heard
you slept with the visiting football team
the same night
as you slept with our home team
i cant take this anymore
you betrayed me
and our home football team
you slept with the visiting team
this is the final blow to my heart
as i walk into your house
i load my nine
i walk into your room
and look you in the eye
despite the other 3 men there
i empty my entire clip
into your slim tan body
i save one bullet
to end my hearts pain
the other 3 men
long gone now
i am now with you
and you are
with only me
we ended up together
yet again
just you and i
I can’t forget those days baby
No I can't forget at all
When you used to love me madly
When I was only your doll!
You have loose character
I have known it later
It has driven me crazy
Baby I feel so lonely!
Baby I am not bad at all
But you treat me like a football
That’s why now I curse you
But I pray for you too!
Baby now I hate you
As much as I love you
You are like my favorite food
Baby I am not very good!
Poetry is about freedom.
The spirit of freedom.
The freedom of spirit.
You're free to post your poems here.
People are free to comment on them.
Or not.
You're free to air your views
on poetry rather than people, please
on the Forum
(named after a marketplace
sometimes used as
a place of public entertainment
and human slaughter)
and they're free
to disagree
simply, free -
unless, of course
you wanted something else as well?
What I always say is
when you get older
you can't always remember what
what you always say is
'Dream, dream,
Keep on dreaming':
His* advice.
But I say:
Don't dream your life away..
A dream will remain a dream
Until it is broght into practice.
He dreams of factories
In the Mars
Where man is yet to reach!
Here I dream for a bowl of rice
For the children
Below the povertyline:
The longest line on earth!
Dear Kalam Sir,
If thoughts do not result in action,
It will end up in depression!
*APJ Abdul Kalam, Former President of India
To stand forth in strength;
The strength of wisdom,
The strength of knowledge,
The strength of power,
The strength to stand tall,
The strength to say nay,
The strength to be proud,
To be strong, able and wise,
Down this road true freedom lies...
So many gave their lives
To keep our country free
But we rarely think about it
We treat it so carelessly
We go about our daily chores
Expecting our freedom to remain
We raise our children, go to work
Thinking life will be the same
But it doesn’t all just happen
For when you look back in history
Challenges came to the forefront
Folks fought hard for victory
It seems each generation
Has a challenge that must be met
Luckily there are special folks
Who have goals that are bravely set
So let’s all think about them
Let’s hold them in high esteem
Pray for the strong brave souls
And what freedom always brings!
A respected man he is
A loved man he is
For his doings, for what he did
Yes he is a freedom fighter
He never stood and watched
He was part of them
Those who had hearts for the innocent people
But in the end he was a leader
He was the one who was punished
Punished for the wonderful things he did for the people
He did them with his power
Now he earn the people respect
They love him he’s their hero
He fought for them
He fought for people’s freedom
Yes he is our freedom fighter
He never gave up no matter what
They never got him down no matter what they did
He stayed away from home and family
Living in locked house for 27 years
Almost his man time in Roben Island
He is South Africa’s father
He is Africa’s father
He is the world’s father
He is every one’s father, a loved father
He is our freedom fighter
A special dedication to:
Mr. Nelson Mandela
Tata
A view of a vast land
Enriched with daffodils
Free as the breeze blows
With fullest dreams of its own
A panoramic blue sky
Suspended are the cumulus
On guard like the proud angels
Roaming the horizon with faith
A mystic gushing waterfall
Splashing crystal mist flows
Bathing the earth with vitality
Invigorates all creatures therein
Had freedom not been suppressed
By those whose hearts are full of greed
Then man could have lived a  zestful life
And not suffer the turmoil mounted by evil
“A Free India” - That was your only passion
Thanks to your sacrifices, today we are an independent nation.
You all were quite intelligent and hardworking
And could have easily led the life of a king
But you chose the life of danger and struggle
To liberate your motherland from the British government's shackle
You relentlessly fought against the world's greatest colonial power
And successfully helped to blossom India's independence flower.
India will always remain grateful for you peoples' supreme service
You are Mother India's golden children, whom we will always miss.
(This poem is a tribute to those lion-hearted freedom fighters of India, who got us independence from the British government in 1947) .
You waste the attention of your eyes,
the glittering labour of your hands,
and knead the dough enough for dozens of loaves
of which you'll taste not a morsel;
you are free to slave for others--
you are free to make the rich richer.
The moment you're born
they plant around you
mills that grind lies
lies to last you a lifetime.
You keep thinking in your great freedom
a finger on your temple
free to have a free conscience.
Your head bent as if half-cut from the nape,
your arms long, hanging,
your saunter about in your great freedom:
you're free
with the freedom of being unemployed.
You love your country
as the nearest, most precious thing to you.
But one day, for example,
they may endorse it over to America,
and you, too, with your great freedom--
you have the freedom to become an air-base.
You may proclaim that one must live
not as a tool, a number or a link
but as a human being--
then at once they handcuff your wrists.
You are free to be arrested, imprisoned
and even hanged.
There's neither an iron, wooden
nor a tulle curtain
in your life;
there's no need to choose freedom:
you are free.
But this kind of freedom
is a sad affair under the stars.
Translated by Taner Baybars
For E.D. who will never understand the gift he gave me.
I wear a silver bracelet on my wrist with its native american facade and I am reminded of a commended freedom and of peaceful spirituality.
Things that are not easy for me to acquire in my world, but easily in a world of others.
The bracelet does not belong to me, but I can feel his energy channeled through it and it warms me.
Between his life and mine, even though so different yet the same, the meaning of the bracelet has taken a life of it's own.
I am compelled to wear it, in rebellion, shedding all constrictions and conformities of who I am expected to be.
My heart, my body are consumed with carefree rapture at this newly found concept.
To dance barefoot on the grass, in my favorite faded blue jeans under the moonlight and stars,
with nothing but the feeling of simply borrowed freedom.
(September 2007)
I am who I am
Because of what I am
I ask for freedom from love
I ask for freedom from slavery
I ask for freedom from hunger
I ask for freedom from desire
You know and I know
That not all seeds you sow
Will eventually grow
This is contemporary poem
Seeking for freedom with my pen
I read there was an old man
Who bade farewell to his only son
At the hands of his own gun
Where his actions contemporary?
Was his anger or concern temporary?
This is contemporary poem
Seeking for freedom with my pen
Vivid imagination leads to frustration
It could trigger a chain-reaction
Hence the concept of mass-killing
Is born out of an over-reacted feeling
There is no cure or process of healing
Once death is the meal we are dealing
This is contemporary poem
Seeking for freedom with my pen
We drink with intention to forget
We drink but later on regret
And the people are walking
And the people are talking
Talking about freedom, freedom
Talking about a heavenly kingdom
Talking about their great grandfathers and their moms
Talking about freedom in any shape or form
This is contemporary poem
Seeking for freedom with my pen
And it does not make any sense
Why we always speak first in defense
And it does not make any sense
Why our passion for life despite the struggle is immense
We crave for human heroes
Those who started from zero
Their brave tales flows tremendously
So our fertile hope elongates endlessly
So when you tell a lie
Look your victim deep in the eye
Penetrate their mind
Find out what you can find
Because freedom is a lie
Because freedom is a lie
This is contemporary poem
Seeking for freedom with my pen
Copyright 2007 - Sylvia Chidi
The shots fired out
The scared soldier dashed back to the fort
He had witnessed enough
He had only went to 'experience' war
And now he wanted to go home desperately
He had made friends, lifelong they were
Good people
Then came the battles
The first six didn't take any of his best friends, only people he knew
But that last one took Charlie
Charlie was his most treasured friend
But Charlie was slowly dying
A painful death
Back at the lines was Charlie
Lying helpless in a pool of blood
Surrounded by bodies
That were badly mangled as his
The new soldier had a choice
To take refuge at the fort
Where most of the 'bravest' men had escaped to
Or risk his life for his new friend
The young man died that day
'Cry Freedom, ' he declared boldly
As he rushed to the lines
The shots fired out
And the man was thrown to his friend's side on the ground
''Thanks, man, ' said the dying friend
'I knew you would come'
Those brave men died
Fighting for our country
For our families today
Cry freedom in America
For more will die
If we keep fighting
So help with the war
Cry freedom
Remember them, for they were once like you,
With hopes, emotions, days of grey and blue.
Accepting combat, trying to win through,
To fight again, for freedom.
Remember them, for they were young and green,
With so much life ahead, as yet unseen.
They knew not what they faced, but all were keen,
To fight again, for freedom.
Remember them, each fought to give us peace,
That each fierce conflict in this world, would cease.
And then when all was done, they’d find release,
From fighting foes, for freedom.
Remember them, who’ve joined the heroes roll,
Their names inscribed now, on a parchment scroll.
Thousands did not survive the war’s hellhole,
To fight again, for freedom.
Remember them.
©   Ernestine Northover
Freedoms four he saw, that here, - from fear -
Responded to the war call – means and ends
Endeavoured to ally while bomb descends
Each day as Fate played out the game that year.
Dreams freedoms canvassed as tide turned appear
OMitting nothing, - yet each one depends
For sustenance upon the first which lends
Real substance sends the others, signal clear.
One pushed without the other’s insincere,
Mocks as it lo[o]cks on ethics Man defends,
Freedom today bends, hostage, - who transcends
Explicit rules, dares flout laws out of gear?
Aware remain some try to hide truth’s key.
Rock well the bedrock, strengthen future free...
How delicious is the winning
Of a kiss at love's beginning,
When two mutual hearts are sighing
For the knot there's no untying!
Yet remember, 'Midst our wooing,
Love has bliss, but Love has ruing;
Other smiles may make you fickle,
Tears for other charms may trickle.
Love he comes, and Love he tarries,
Just as fate or fancy carries;
Longest stays, when sorest chidden;
Laughs and flies, when press'd and bidden.
Bind the sea to slumber stilly,
Bind its odour to the lily,
Bind the aspen ne'er to quiver,
Then bind Love to last for ever.
Love's a fire that needs renewal
Of fresh beauty for its fuel:
Love's wing moults when caged and captured,
Only free, he soars enraptured.
Can you keep the bee from ranging
Or the ringdove's neck from changing?
No! nor fetter'd Love from dying
In the knot there's no untying.
At the stroke of twelve; midnight
we earned freedom! Well! We did it!
We waited, waited, waited, waited
we waited not just six hours for dawn,
but alas for sixty five years in vain.
Very few dredged the darkness to fetch the light;
but many spewed venoms to stretch the night.
Terrorists, factionists and fanatics
gained the reins of the reign in dark
to run their rackets free of any fetters
while remained our leaders, indolent,
insolent, corrupt and inept with no intent
to direct and correct the groping multitude.
Commoners too care not the dark nor feel any remorse
even if the long waited day-break
starts with a longest solar eclipse.
They preferred smug slumber and lives with no bother
and forgot sans doubt with perfidious conceit
the blood and sweat shed by our great founding fathers.
Fumbling are we still in gloom to untie many a Gordian knot!
Oh God! Save my country from all these Stygian fogs!
Beneath my fingers I feel the smooth silky paper.
Somewhere within my head, a poem’s carefully strung.
Then one will be committed to join with the other,
When it has been carefully sprung.
Beneath my fingers I see the strong tough paper.
Somewhere within my head a poem’s shining through.
Then one will be exhibited, joined with the other,
Where they will be seen, shining new.
Beneath my fingers I hear the crisp firm paper.
Somewhere within my head a poem’s freedom bound.
When one will be entrusted to join with the other,
Then freedom will at last be found.
©   Ernestine Northover
Walking with arms at my back
On corridor of liberty,
Where man's dream was once met,
And again, man's wound is abolished.
There are no restrictions to gain,
Less I am confined, prisoned,
For I am accorded human respect
That was taken from my old folks.
We let you to levitate, with our gratitude
For your adamant spirits emancipated us,
And let those lost, redeem their virtues
For that is all they needed.
Mandela, Sisulu and Tambo
Punished for our welfare,
Salute, we salute them all,
For their dreams are quenched.
The puzzle mat is well combined
People are of colorless skin
And of same objectives, embracing this land
South African, Mzansi Africa
Enjoy the silent communication with the nation
Enjoy the juices of Mzansi’s vine yard.
On this freedom day
We join hands and shield liberation,
We instill love together,
Let the wings of the dove reign.
Wrapped inside a little womb,
Struggling to be free,
The butterfly soon left its cage.
Nevermore a worm to be.
Born anew to be a sign
Of beauty, grace and life.
A light among a gloomy world
And hope in the midst of strife.
Oh, butterfly, with wings outspread,
Glistening in the light.
Show us how to fly with ease
As you begin your freedom flight.
I walked in to a graveyard in the dead of day
Found a marble headstone engraved with your legacy
It read this body was pretty had freedom had money
And his soul will live ooooon
I bend down to feel the earth,
The soil telling me, this body lived only half its worth
I grabbed a shovel to undo this mistake
And try to get you to awake
Stop that sleepin in that leather coffin
I know it’s nice and quiet down there
Get to digging, all the dirt up,
Take the cobwebs out of your hair
Understanding what you’re wanting,
When you say a breath of fresh air
You’re a free man in a beautiful world
Living the dream they say
You got to wake up and shake off
All the laziness that’s in your way
Hey dreamer why are you dreaming
What are you doing still sleeping
You’re a nightmare, to handle,
And this life you’re living is a scandal
Freedom in a jail, cozy in a hole,
All that drippin wax in a candle bowl
What a waste of life that’s too much to bear
Take me seriously and start to care
Freedom is a choice, choose it with your wisdom
There ain’t no comfort zone, in any living organ
Try and take a chance, your never know the outcome
It  will be hard,
But you’re going to earn freedom
(2011-Esther Douek)
Freedom freedom freedom
Where is freedom
You are saying
Life is boredom.
My dear, Pritam
Life is not a game
Not cut not paste
And also it is not gum.
See life with freedom
Though not life itself
Is freedom, at our sweet will
Life is not go not come.
Who said life is not divine
Life is a problem who said
Who said here in life, there
Is misery poverty and violence!
Think life a torch light
And you are free to focus
Where there is nothing
Just live and think no problem.
You are free, you are free, you are free
Life is a tree, with air with water
With light, you are to live
On the earth, under the sky. Don't cry.
At last! I breathe...
Freedom...
No more questions in my mind,
no more doubt nor fear.
My mind, my soul
My spirit breaks away
Beyond this wounded,
Earthy land.
And so I pause,
I soar in feathery weight
Happiness within reach
From the sapphire cottony sky.
Elated I sigh...
Freedom...Ah...Freedom
I hold you in my heart
As I await once more...
To see life
Through a cynic's eye.
Freedom to love again.
Freedom to try love again without thinking
about the past.
Freedom to think without worry.
Freedom to dance  to my
new found love..
Freedom to feel the touch of another man
heart and soul.
Freedom to forget the past.
Freedom to cry without any sorrow......
Freedom to walk with out trials and
trubulations...
Freedom to be along and think
in peace.
Freedom to start a new life feel with love
again...
Thank you for freedom......................
Thinking can never be free
Stems from the conditioning deep in our minds
Cultural...Social...Literary tree
Glued to us putting us in a bind
We think our thoughrs are free
But are they really? ?
Any books or poems for that matter that we read
Or the ideals or the principles that we lead
Are all rooted to the mind thats been fed
All the learning from the life we have led
Every thought being a result from that
Whats the newness, may I ask? ?
Just be aware of what that signifies
Observe what it means, do not fight
Try and slowly uncondition the mind
Without a conflict that can make you blind
Make the mind still, remove all thoughts
Remove the veil of words, maybe it blots? ?
A flash of understanding, a rapidity of insight
When mind is not burdened by its own noise
It is the memory that really interevenes
Challenge and Response in between
A chattering mind cannot understand
Truth... which is like a thief creeping into a still  night.
the crescent moon chip of a coffee cup
against your (needlessly)   pursed lips
and suddenly, you taste it-
the iron history of twenty years
of boy
without a hand on your shoulder
epiphany frames the corners of your mouth
pioneering your desert skin
as it clears a trail
for the vandal wrinkles
of your recession
drip-dropping off the edges of the earth
onto new coat and clashing tie
you rush to the sink
the taunting softness of cotton embracing your lips
and you’re hopelessly aware that you could spill truth for hours
and no one would be around to wipe it up
or to carry you off to sleep
or to bleach away the stain
of his god.damn.absence.
you look up, through the mirror
and hear a stranger at the keys
tapping out the same song you thought you wrote
when you were sixteen (a clenching, bluesy number)
about a girl asleep by a payphone
about a boy trapped in a bus stop
about some dumbass kid who burned off all the nerve-endings on his hands one fourth of july
(about the shortest story ever told)
“well baby i went to bed last night” (a louis armstrong voice that sorta swallows you)
“and when i woke up this morning” (decrescendo)
“I Wasn’t.”
The night’s darkness falling
On the city of dreams
The drizzle that has been raining
For thousands of years
On the stone inscriptions*
The angel of night had this time
Brought stories of ancient love
In midst a thought like a jump
Of the small fish or a star blinking
Will like strength we have learned
In the books and the rituals of faith
To survive when we are hurt by times
In our certitude with destiny
The destiny of self that in the physical world
Is destined to disintegrate into the unknown
Only to survive in the realm of soul
And never to return back or we shall discover
And the demon of will
Like the consciousness of being
That takes us enchained
The night’s angel
Whispered into my ears
Yet another freedom
The Freedom from will
(On visiting Asoka’s stone inscriptions in Mansehra)
17/9/2008
Freedom has turned into an illusion
Just to be an illusion
We have created a desease
As we do as we please
The population will decline
Because they've drunk the poison wine
Comes too late to purify
To what we come to testify
A nation conditioned only to do wrong
Now we don't know where we come from
In A Desert, The  Wind  Arrived A Teasel.
The Teasel  Asked  Him
How  Can  I  Become  Free  Like  You?
The Wind  Laughed  In  His  Sleeve  And  Told
First, Try  To  Bear  The  Pain Of Homelessness And Vagrancy
Then Be Patient And  Wait.
The Freedom Comes To You Himself.
Then He Mumbled  In His Heart
Alas!
Cage Of Every One Is As Big As His Dream Of Freedom!
Heart filled with love
Heart filled with fire
To have her one dream
Her inner most desire
She will never tell
She will never say a word
Because the bird of freedom soars in his eyes
She must not disturb
A life unlived
A dream untold
This man she cannot get
This man she cannot hold
But still she has hope
Hope of living her life
And hope of dreaming her dreams
Hope that one day he may see
Freedom
The same she sees in him
She cannot love another
Nor hold another's hand
She prays every night he'll just understand
She feels freedom around his presence
That feeling she gets no where else
His dreams are reality
His life is being lived
Because he has freedom as it is
Is there freedom in your marriage?
Or is there bondage bringing woe
Is there freedom in your marriage?
This is what I'd like to know.
For marriage is two people
Each sharing the others love
Not telling each other how to live
Nor giving each other the shove.
For each is an individual
With free-will to be such;
Giving and receiving in their talents -
However much.
Having freedom to enjoy at times
What each may like to do;
Pleasing each other by attitude
Being happy for each too.
Standing by each other
When outsiders shoot the tongue
No matter what the cost might be
For freedom you're among.
So, is there freedom in your marriage?
I pray there is today,
For only in love's freedom -
Marriage will be for aye!
FREEDOM IS..., FREEDOM IS NEVER
Melvin Banggollay
FREEDOM IS:
F-ighting for a just and noble cause
R-especting others rights and dignity
E-xchanging of views without fear
E-mpowring others to be free from tyrany.
D-oing morally rightful and lawful things
O-ffering others opportunity to live descent life
M-utual sharing  as brothers and sisters.
for FREEDOM IS NEVER
F-ighting to deprive others rights
R-aping the right and dignity of anyone
E-xploiting the ignorance and weakness of others
E-xperimenting others life for an immoral cause
D-irect assault of one's private life in disguise of freedom
O-utliving others with the power of guns and goons
M-utual sharing at the expense of the weak and many.
They tell me
'Freedom is never free.'
I know that-
More than most realize.
Freedom cost us more
Than we should have to give.
Freedom cost us blood.
It cost us the lives
Of our fathers,
Our sons,
Our brothers.
But while freedom is never free,
Remember-
It has been bought at great price,
And so is a thing of great value.
We must defend it,
From those who would take it away.
The defense of our freedoms
Will cost us-
More than we wish to pay.
But we must pay, to defend,
For if we try to make freedom free,
We forget-
True freedom is never free.
Who says our freedom is free? Not Me.
True, We are  freer than most, but not enough,
that we should boast.
Before you say Freedom is free, stop and count the cost
of all the lives lost,
Freedom isn't free, when there's killing in our streets.
Freedom isn't free, to the Soldier that is waiting to be shipped over seas.
Freedom isn't free, with the pain, he or she is feeling inside, with
the thought  of having to leave they're loved one's behind, and
it hurts so bad that it brings them to their knees.
Freedom isn't free, when your living in uncertainty.
Freedom isn't free, having to say good-bye, to a loved one that
is going off to war.Freedom isn't free, to a soldier who is on the front lines, knowing he or she, could die anytime.
Freedom isn't free when your lying in bed,
waiting and wondering, if you'll ever see your loved ones alive again.
Freedom isn't free, when a little child crys in the night,
for his or her Mommy and Daddy, and they're not there to hold them close, and comfort them, and to ease their fears, and wipe away they're tears. And all those in all the other wars, and the lives that are still being lost at this very moment.
Do you still say Freedom is free?
Freedom isn't free, when a Soldier is wounded in battle.
When news reaches, Family and friends at home,
And their told that their Soldier is wounded far beyond repair,
The loss and pain felt can not compare.
Freedom isn't free, with all those many Soldiers that wished they
had died because of all the pain in  their broken up bodies.
Freedom isn't free, when your lying in bed, and you hear that dreaded
tap on your door.And you pray to God that you were only having a bad dream.
Freedom isn't free when you open the door and listen to the
bugle play, and you feel a sudden chill.
Everything goes still.
Freedom isn't free, when there is a Flag being draped
over a coffin, of a Brother, Sister, or a friend.
Freedom isn't free, when you think of all the children,
of the mothers and the wives, of Fathers, sons and husbands, whose
lives have been interrupted.
Freedom isn't free, when you think about the graveyard at the
bottom of the sea, of  the  unmarked graves in  Arlington.
Who say's Freedom is Free? Not Me!
Written 7/23/008
BY Nora Eason
It is spoken man is born equal and free
To a degree the world disagrees
Some foresee what others cannot see
Freedom is walking away with glee
We have a right to Christmas with a tree
We have a right to enjoy a shopping spree
We have a right to travel the land and the sea
We have the right to an educational degree
Stop the silly talking
Whilst Freedom is walking
Freedom is not a jubilee
Freedom is not a guarantee
Who says Freedom is free?
It is spoken man is free of thought
Without the need to fear higher courts
Some have spoken and finally resorted
To hide their thoughts from being reported
We have a right to a chosen culture
We have a right not to be tortured
We have a right to nationality and security
We have a right to be part of a minority
Stop the silly talking
Whilst Freedom is walking
Freedom is not part of community
Freedom is never an informality
Who says Freedom is immunity?
We want opinion without distinction
We want a world without discrimination
We want a kingdom of utter freedom
We want it in all shapes and form
Stop the silly talking
Whilst Freedom is walking
Stop the silly talking
Whilst Freedom is mocking
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
God's love is unconditional
It is not bound by strings,
He does not give the bird a voice
Then tell it what to sing;
He does not give us wings to fly
Then tell  us where to go,
He does not give each man a mind
Then tell him what to know;
Life is an experience -
Each man will choose his way,
And if he makes wrong choices
They'll come back to him one day,
But still he learns the lesson,
Be it difficult or not -
God does not tell us what to learn
Nor dictate how it's taught.
everyone has choices
you can choose to be good
or bad
you can choose to do the right thing
or the wrong thing
you can choose to help fight this war
or you can choose to ignore it
if you fight you can choose how
most choose weapons
but they create more problems
than they solve
for they hurt the innocent
few choose their voice
it is a wonderful choice
but only for those few who can be heard
heard and taken seriously
I choose a pen
so I may write it all
and it will be there for all whom choose to read
you see we all have choices
good or evil
love or hate
fight or ignore
right or wrong
which will you choose?
(Translated from the French by Edouard Rodti)
My wife with the hair of a wood fire
With the thoughts of heat lightning
With the waist of an hourglass
With the waist of an otter in the teeth of a tiger
My wife with the lips of a cockade and of a bunch of stars of the last magnitude
With the teeth of tracks of white mice on the white earth
With the tongue of rubbed amber and glass
My wife with the tongue of a stabbed host
With the tongue of a doll that opens and closes its eyes
With the tongue of an unbelievable stone
My wife with the eyelashes of strokes of a child's writing
With brows of the edge of a swallow's nest
My wife with the brow of slates of a hothouse roof
And of steam on the panes
My wife with shoulders of champagne
And of a fountain with dolphin-heads beneath the ice
My wife with wrists of matches
My wife with fingers of luck and ace of hearts
With fingers of mown hay
My wife with armpits of marten and of beechnut
And of Midsummer Night
Of privet and of an angelfish nest
With arms of seafoam and of riverlocks
And of a mingling of the wheat and the mill
My wife with legs of flares
With the movements of clockwork and despair
My wife with calves of eldertree pith
My wife with feet of initials
With feet of rings of keys and Java sparrows drinking
My wife with a neck of unpearled barley
My wife with a throat of the valley of gold
Of a tryst in the very bed of the torrent
With breasts of night
My wife with breasts of a marine molehill
My wife with breasts of the ruby's crucible
With breasts of the rose's spectre beneath the dew
My wife with the belly of an unfolding of the fan of days
With the belly of a gigantic claw
My wife with the back of a bird fleeing vertically
With a back of quicksilver
With a back of light
With a nape of rolled stone and wet chalk
And of the drop of a glass where one has just been drinking
My wife with hips of a skiff
With hips of a chandelier and of arrow-feathers
And of shafts of white peacock plumes
Of an insensible pendulum
My wife with buttocks of sandstone and asbestos
My wife with buttocks of swans' backs
My wife with buttocks of spring
With the sex of an iris
My wife with the sex of a mining-placer and of a platypus
My wife with a sex of seaweed and ancient sweetmeat
My wife with a sex of mirror
My wife with eyes full of tears
With eyes of purple panoply and of a magnetic needle
My wife with savanna eyes
My wife with eyes of water to he drunk in prison
My wife with eyes of wood always under the axe
My wife with eyes of water-level of level of air earth and fire
Please, don't chastise or stone me,
Or force me into a fiery grave.
Instead, let me present my views freely
To those who are steadfast and brave.
Let my words echo across the land,
A right that we value and hold so dear.
May my words be uttered without reprimand,
Speaking emphatically free from fear.
Australia's a big country
An' Freedom's humping bluey,
An' Freedom's on the wallaby
Oh! don't you hear 'er cooey?
She's just begun to boomerang,
She'll knock the tyrants silly,
She's goin' to light another fire
And boil another billy.
Our fathers toiled for bitter bread
While loafers thrived beside 'em,
But food to eat and clothes to wear,
Their native land denied 'em.
An' so they left their native land
In spite of their devotion,
An' so they came, or if they stole,
Were sent across the ocean.
Then Freedom couldn't stand the glare
O' Royalty's regalia,
She left the loafers where they were,
An' came out to Australia.
But now across the mighty main
The chains have come ter bind her –
She little thought to see again
The wrongs she left behind her.
Our parents toil'd to make a home –
Hard grubbin 'twas an' clearin' –
They wasn't crowded much with lords
When they was pioneering.
But now that we have made the land
A garden full of promise,
Old Greed must crook 'is dirty hand
And come ter take it from us.
So we must fly a rebel flag,
As others did before us,
And we must sing a rebel song
And join in rebel chorus.
We'll make the tyrants feel the sting
O' those that they would throttle;
They needn't say the fault is ours
If blood should stain the wattle!
Freedom, as every schoolboy knows,
Once shrieked as Kosciusko fell;
On every wind, indeed, that blows
I hear her yell.
She screams whenever monarchs meet,
And parliaments as well,
To bind the chains about her feet
And toll her knell.
And when the sovereign people cast
The votes they cannot spell,
Upon the pestilential blast
Her clamors swell.
For all to whom the power's given
To sway or to compel,
Among themselves apportion Heaven
And give her Hell.
Blary O'Gary.
Unseen chains of steely resolute
Bind her to the wings of freedom.
Independant and unknown to
intimidation, she reaches out
to find her own sky.
The Freedom
To have my own mind, without others trying to influence me.
The Freedom
To be loved, and not hurt.
The Freedom
To be accepted, and understood.
The Freedom
To make mistakes, and not be judged.
The Freedom
To walk with my head held high, and confidence without others trying to tear me down.
The Freedom
To be me
he drank wine all night of the
28th, and he kept thinking of her:
the way she walked and talked and loved
the way she told him things that seemed true
but were not, and he knew the color of each
of her dresses
and her shoes-he knew the stock and curve of
each heel
as well as the leg shaped by it.
and she was out again and when he came home,and
she'd come back with that special stink again,
and she did
she came in at 3 a.m in the morning
filthy like a dung eating swine
and
he took out a butchers knife
and she screamed
backing into the rooming house wall
still pretty somehow
in spite of love's reek
and he finished the glass of wine.
that yellow dress
his favorite
and she screamed again.
and he took up the knife
and unhooked his belt
and tore away the cloth before her
and cut off his balls.
and carried them in his hands
like apricots
and flushed them down the
toilet bowl
and she kept screaming
as the room became red
GOD O GOD!
WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?
and he sat there holding 3 towels
between his legs
no caring now whether she left or
stayed
wore yellow or green or
anything at all.
and one hand holding and one hand
lifting he poured
another wine
All I want is freedom
Is that too much to ask
All I want is freedom
To forget everything in my past
All I want is freedom
To take away all the tears and the pain
All I want is freedom
To never feel that way again
All I want is freedom
To love you my own way
All I want is freedom
To make all my fears go away
All I want is freedom
To say “I love you”
All I want is freedom
To hear you say “I love you too”
They say I have freedom
I can do what I want
They say I have freedom
To speak how I feel
But how is it freedom
To be judged for my deeds
And persecuted for speaking
Revealing my thoughts
How is it freedom
To fear being called strange
To think different thoughts
To the people you call friends
I live in my mind
I hide in my brain
I don't dare to speak out again
And I'm free to be lonely
And misunderstood
I'm free to be hated and shunned
This is the freedom
This is not freedom
It cannot be freedom
To hide from the world
Freedom is something
we take at times for granted,
it is only when we have lost it
do we see how precious it is.
Walking down the street
feeling free as can be,
but suppose we could not do that.
How would we feel?
If our voice was choked
by oppression.
What then?
Never take for granted
the things we enjoy the most.
The freedom to live
the way we choose,
for one day in the future
we could lose it
unless we are careful
in the things we do.
24 April 2008
When does one become many?
When love seeks to own,
and actions take on a purpose.
When does one become one?
It never does, one was never many.
When does the unlimited become finite?
It never does but we dream it.
It isn’t the universe that we dream
but all that is in it.
When will we be truly free?
When we find the prison key
and decide to use it.
I set myself free
From the shackles in my heart
To the schackles on my legs
No more will I suffer
No more will I endure.
Your jealousy
Your envy
Your insecurity
I will live my life
As I see fit.
I set myself free
I Am Free
Like Birds
Yet
I Am Not Free
Like birds in the CAGE
TEARS
But
Tears
Enou gh
They told me that I have all the freedom I could ask for
They told me that I had it because I was born in the United States
They told me that I was lucky
Because I have the freedom to think for myself
Because I have the freedom to criticize the government
Because I have the freedom to dress how I want
And say what I want
And be what I want
And these are all freedoms I take advantage of
And because I have the freedom to learn, I took advantage of that
And I learned that there were others without freedom
And not just in other countries
Just because they’re of another race
Just because they’re of another sexual preference
Just because they’re of another religion
Those are the reasons they don’t get freedom
Those are the people who don’t get freedom
Those people are the mistakes
Because freedom should be for everybody
What freeman knoweth freedom? Never he
Whose father's father through long lives have reigned
O'er kingdoms which mere heritage attained.
Though from his youth to age he roam as free
As winds, he dreams not freedom's ecstacy.
But he whose birth was in a nation chained
For centuries; where every breath was drained
From breasts of slaves which knew not there could be
Such thing as freedom,--he beholds the light
Burst, dazzling; though the glory blind his sight
He knows the joy. Fools laugh because he reels
And weilds confusedly his infant will;
The wise man watching with a heart that feels
Says: "Cure for freedom's harms is freedom still."
You are freedom
God's freedom child
on every field inside you
on every level inside you
on every dark or bright side inside you
absolutely marvelous God's freedom child
full of happiness, prosperity and gladness
full of good or bad experience
You want to have all of them.
Take them
take them all.
Such an easy way to take goodness and gladness
much easier than to take evil and harm
much faster, delicate and without end.
You are freedom.
You are a mind of goodness, knowledge, experience, wonderful feelings
independence and render.
Discover yourself, give yourself
give your freedom to others all over the world.
Be freedom.
If destiny is manifest
and fate is set in stone
then nothing that you'll ever do
is down to you alone
You can't be blamed for following
the paths down which you're led
when choices that aren't really yours
are scything through your head
It's not your job to sympathise
with every victim's plight
perception is subjective
there is no wrong or right
If your mind is built to fit
a predetermined state
it's not your fault you're overwhelmed
by other people's hate
But instead of being constrictive
destiny makes sense
Unfettered by choice, the conscience flies
free from consequence.
Precious like time,
Fragile like a baby.
A dream, a vision, a fantasy,
An individual's most valued possession.
Enabling yourself to soar through the horizon.
Hopes coming true,
Doors opening,
Chambers unlocking.
Feeling inside unexplainable,
Merely looking further towards forthcoming.
No past, no present,
Only the future in the beholder's hands.
Opinons differ in everyone's eye.
Easily taken away,
Earned by heart,
An everlasting promise.
A! Fredome is a noble thing!
Fredome mays man to haiff liking;
Fredome all solace to man giffis,
He levys at ese that frely levys!
A noble hart may haiff nane ese,
Na ellys nocht that may him plese,
Gyff fredome fail; for fre liking
Is yarnyt our all othir thing.
Na he that ay has levyt fre
May nocht knaw weill the propyrte,
The angyr, na the wretchyt dome
That is couplyt to foule thyrldome.
Bot gyff he had assayit it,
Than all perquer he suld it wyt;
And suld think fredome mar to prise
Than all the gold in warld that is.
Thus contrar thingis evirmar
Discoweryngis off the tothir ar.
What is freedom? Nobody knows.
What do I think is freedom?
Freedom is,
when you can do what you like
Without ever hurting somebody
Freedom is,
when you are healthy,
Not trammelled in your bed
Freedom is,
when you are in free charge of your time
And not dominated by a watch
Freedom is,
when you can say what you think
As long as it doesn’t hurt somebody else
Freedom is,
when you can make a mistake
Without getting immediately punished for it
Freedom is,
when you can go and get milk
Whenever you want some
Freedom is,
The one thing we all want to have,
The one thing that none of us really has,
The one thing each of us defines different,
The one thing we will never have………
Freedom is…………a dream
Freedom, oh precious freedom, we ask not why we hold it so dear
we just take it,
for freedom is like a sweet laughter within your soul.
It's like a soft gentle breeze on an autumn afternoon,
when all is right with the world.
Freedom is the flame that burns down within our souls,
Can the flames burn within the souls of all,
or must the flames be drowned with tears of sorrow and pain?
For I shall not pass through this life in vain.
Let freedom warm the souls of all mankind,
for as I walk in the autumn of my life, I shall reflect
on my yesterdays and hope for our tomorrows.
For the reflections of our lives are like looking through
an hourglass of everlasting time, all moments are cherished.
Oh let us listen and embrace the souls on fire,
all souls are cherished.
What is freedom?
Are you sure we have it
Most things we see
We just got to grab it
And all this selfishness
I can’t stand it
I think we all take freedom for granted.
Freedom frees my dictionary
In my brain.. I keep the words
For every thing serious and real
The words that could change my life
In my heart.. I keep the words that
Describe me when I’m lonely,
When I’m happy or sad,
When I’m in love or broken
In my body.. I keep the words
For my health, physics and sex
In my soul.. I keep the words that
I can give to god
And thank him for every thing he gave me
Unfortunately I cant use any of those words! ?
Because in the last tow years
I have lost the word “freedom” from my dictionary
It had been captured by the dearest to me..
My freedom is locked in a big cage, full of doors
I’ve tried to free my freedom
But non of the doors was opening
I wanted to tell them release my freedom
But I just couldn’t say anything! !
I’m a prisoner because I lost my word “freedom”
I’m struggling and fighting inside of me to return my freedom
I’m in a war
Looking in silence and preying to gad! !
Those are my only weapons to send my freedom free
Every night I shed tears
But no one can hear me
I have lost my freedom
And I’m loosing me? ! ? !
Dreamlands of passion call my name,
From the abyss of the darkness,
And I am here struggling in vain,
Searching the path to success.
Winds of love blow towards me,
Whispers of wisdom and knowledge I hear,
The thought of the pain seems like wants to be
The excuse for everything I fear.
I see chains and locks, ropes and nails,
On the boat the brings news from far,
I listen to screams, and shouts, and details,
While I am wishing a star.
I can feel the heart going mad,
And the breath is accelerating gently,
The thoughts that from the start I had,
Crash into me incidentally.
Delirious thinking and feelings,
That run like crazy,
Beating,
Pulsing,
Whacking,
Whipping,
My judgement, senses and dealings,
While my conscious goes hazy.
But suddenly I search for the light,
The combat must cease, I fight the underkingdom,
I oppose, agitate and defend what is right,
I finally find it… all this for my freedom.
Freedom is not an object
to be purchased from the shops,
it’s not like the giving of
one or two kilo’s of freedom chaps!
It’s what that thrives on the wings
of bees, butterflies or the dragonflies
that dances with the summer waft,
over the blazing,
flabby bunches of the lusty grain.
It’s the slides
with a hundred curves
over the gleeful tenants.
It’s the wintry morn-mist that glides
over the emerald vale,
the gush of sweet juice that pours
out of the date-palm;
the shivering, frozen puff
that cracks the meager bones;
or the fire that digs out of the mound
of straw and woods.
It’s the opening buds
with the touch of the first raindrops,
the virgin flower that flourish
with the stroke of dawn;
the menacing tempest
that bluster the roofs and roots;
the deluge that wipes the crops,
shifts with disastrous famine.
It’s the voice out of silence;
unshaped, immeasurable, left unheard,
kept untamed in the bosom
of every born free soul.
Freedom, that everyone craves for
Freedom of speech; deeds; religion; thoughts,
desires; dreams; love & expression
Where does actually this feedom exist?
What is the degree of this freedom?
People say each man is born with freedom and equality
But is it a practical truth?
If it is so why do we still crave for it?
Why do we see dissatisfaction and disappointments?
Freedom is not something that we need to find from somewhere
but, is something within ourselves
It doesnt exist in any legal or religious laws,
but lies within us
Is not being what people want us to be
Is what we want ourselves to be
Its not making others fulfill our dreams,
but letting others fulfill their dreams
It is one's own acceptance of being oneself
and resistance of letting others being themselves.
Whilst your soul dances,
beneath the cradle of heaven's stars,
the tall grass gently caresses
your ankles.
With the hand,
that is bound by no chains,
And the eyes,
that see the heavens the skies behold.
Neither the cloud,
that flows in a rhythmic pattern
Nor the bird
who is set off course by another.
You are the wind,
You are the one,
to control your own fate,
because you are free.
country as free as a bird
born in a free world
you would think i have it all
you would think im also free
well let me tell you something
im always questioning who i am
never realizing what im worth
others make me feel so small
threatening to take my sense of being away
combing away my truest self away
i see so many faces, all smiling
smiling faces looking at me
all i have  is this one question
will i ever be free in my own body?
will i ever find my truest self
i need to escape this normality
the survival, of my soul depends on it
im falling to the shadow of normality
this society has killed my individuality
To all our Soldiers past and present, God Bless
Glory to the American Flag, long may she wave
So many have been covered with her when they've
gone to their grave
So many of us have taken for granted that our
freedom will always be
We tend to forget those who have kept that
right for you and for me
A Soldier will stand and fight all night to
keep us from harm
While some of us sit at home and refuse to
lift an arm
Some sit around and complain all day how
wrong this war must be
While a Soldier pushes that aside to continue
to fight for you and me
Some sit around and complain about the food
their going to eat
While a Soldier works straight through
hungry and weary on his feet
While you sit around and complain about what
you have or where you live
Remember what a Soldier somewhere for you is
about to give
A Soldier stands tall and proud and ready for
the fight
We must stand strong behind them through
their hard and arduous plight
Lee Greenwood said it best 'The Flag still
stands for Freedom and they can't take that away'
So give Thanks to our Soldiers out there each
and every day
They caught them.
They were sitting at a table in the kitchen.
It was early.
They had on bathrobes.
They were drinking coffee and smiling.
She had one of his cigarillos in her fingers.
She had her legs tucked up under her in the chair.
They saw them through the window.
She thought of them stepping out of a bath
And him wrapping cloth around her.
He thought of her walking up in a small white building,
He thought of stones settling into the ground.
Then they were gone.
Then they came in through the back.
Her cat ran out.
The house was near the road.
She didn't like the cat going out.
They stayed at the table.
The others were out of breath.
The man and the woman reached across the table.
They were afraid, they smiled.
The other poured themselves the last of the coffee.
Burning their tongues.
The man and the woman looked at them.
They didn't say anything.
The man and the woman moved closer to each other,
The round table between them.
The stove was still on and burned the empty pot.
She started to get up.
One of them shot her.
She leaned over the table like a schoolgirl doing her lessons.
She thought about being beside him, being asleep.
They took her long gray socks
Put them over the barrel of a rifle
And shot him.
He went back in his chair, holding himself.
She told him hers didn't hurt much,
Like in the fall when everything you touch
Makes a spark.
He thought about her getting up in the dark
Wrapping a quilt around herself.
And standing in the doorway.
She asked the men if they shot them again
Not to hurt their faces.
One of them lit him one of his cigarettes.
He thought what it would be like
Being children together.
He was dead before he finished it.
She asked them could she take it out of his mouth.
So it wouldn't burn his lips.
She reached over and touched his hair.
She thought about him walking through the dark singing.
She died on the table like that,
Smoke coming out of his mouth.
So many people around me.
The ones I love and the ones I hate.
I have the freedom.
I have the freedom to love.
I have the freedome to hate.
The freedom to care.
The freedom to concern
The freedom to worry
The freedom to be hurt
The freedom to be sad
The freedom to be happy
The freedom to say what i want to say.
All of these freedoms i have.
All of these feelings i have.
You could do anything with your freedom.
Let the chains break.
Spread your wings
And fly away.
Don't let anyone get you down.
Make sure you use your freedoms correctly
You use your feelings and freedoms to make friends and the right choices.
Understand your freedoms and feelings.
We have the freedom to do what our hearts yearn to do.
And an orator said, "Speak to us of Freedom."
And he answered:
At the city gate and by your fireside I have seen you prostrate yourself and worship your own freedom,
Even as slaves humble themselves before a tyrant and praise him though he slays them.
Ay, in the grove of the temple and in the shadow of the citadel I have seen the freest among you wear their freedom as a yoke and a handcuff.
And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfillment.
You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief,
But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound.
And how shall you rise beyond your days and nights unless you break the chains which you at the dawn of your understanding have fastened around your noon hour?
In truth that which you call freedom is the strongest of these chains, though its links glitter in the sun and dazzle the eyes.
And what is it but fragments of your own self you would discard that you may become free?
If it is an unjust law you would abolish, that law was written with your own hand upon your own forehead.
You cannot erase it by burning your law books nor by washing the foreheads of your judges, though you pour the sea upon them.
And if it is a despot you would dethrone, see first that his throne erected within you is destroyed.
For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their won pride?
And if it is a care you would cast off, that care has been chosen by you rather than imposed upon you.
And if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared.
Verily all things move within your being in constant half embrace, the desired and the dreaded, the repugnant and the cherished, the pursued and that which you would escape.
These things move within you as lights and shadows in pairs that cling.
And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light.
And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom.
We enjoy full freedom in India
Even the cows and bulls are free
Jaipur was witness to this theory
Recently a tourist from Argentina
Was attacked and mauled by a bull
in a highly busy street of Jaipur
The tourist succumbed to injuries
The biggest irony was that the man
Had come to Jaipur with lady love
To celebrate his Birthday in style.
freedom
no choice
as to who i am
There is a funeral today for the remains of a friend
Cremated remains which will be placed in an urn
And sat atop a podium for viewing and prayer
Many people will cry violently for his passing
Some will mourn quietly within themselves
But all will remember the man
For while he is but ashes now
Soon to be cast out upon the open Sea
He was however, if only for a brief time
A true American hero to me....
(2007)
In search of freedom; how strange,
waves are running away from oceans
and rays are running away from light...
I wonder,
can they ever sever from their founts?
Fastened are lives, likewise
one and all in this universe
to the unraveled hidden source.
Yet humans run in nescience
towards illusory independence.
Stop your sprint
dear straying mortals...
start searching your inner alcoves.
Not really fathoms deep to grope...
well nigh the ultimate free rein
in the wellspring; The Mighty Divine!
I prefer the gorgeous freedom,
And I fly to lands of grace,
Where in wide and clear meadows
All is good, as dreams, and blest.
Here they rice: the clover clear,
And corn-flower's gentle lace,
And the rustle is always here:
"Ears are leaning... Take your ways!"
In this immense sea of fair,
Only one of blades reclines.
You don't see in misty air,
I'd seen it!It will be mine!
They have brought Saddam to justice and handed freedom back
Or at least that is what you tell me to the people of Iraq
But i always thought that freedom included freedom to live free of fear
Whilst every day from Iraq of more deaths through violence we do hear.
If you think Iraq is such a great place to live in you should try living there
And with the basic freedoms that you now enjoy your notes you can compare
For you do not seem enlightened on matters of liberty
On your ideas of Iraq i for one could not agree.
And your ideas of freedom seem quite laughable to me
How can one even know of basic freedom if of fear one can't live free
You should spend your next holiday in Iraq with your wife and family
Otherwise your ideas of freedom i cannot take seriously.
When you talk of Iraqi freedom talk is cheap and words are easily said
The only news we hear from Iraq is of more Iraqi dead
As a holiday destination Iraq i would not recommend
Unless of course you are suicidal and you wish your life to end.
I want my freedom back,
This can't be right,
I'm a democrat!
I was supportive of human and civil rights,
I always thought that the government would take care of me,
Cradle to grave,
Yes sir re!
Now, as I get older,
I can truly see,
Freedom for some gives us less liberty,
I guess I traded in freedom from decisions,
For government dependency.
As a rule I thought I was getting a deal,
Now they aren't through!
The government controls every phase of my life,
How much get for unemployment,
Food Stamps,
And what I pay in rent.
My solution to this problem
Is as simple as can be,
Do as I did,
But do as I should have done,
Save,
Invest,
Put back into our great land,
Travel, Talk, get out and walk,
Meet your neighbors,
But most of all ask questions,
When it comes to the selection
Of people who represent us,
Don't vote for the promises of an election,
Vote instead for self-development,
Vote to restore or land to the home of the free
Once again.
Free from government,
Free from fear,
Free from big brother's ear,
Because if we don't
It won't be a country anymore,
It would be just one big joke!
There's a free in freedom
a dominate in dom
dominate implies ownership
terminates empowerment
Dominion demands tribute
like the tributaries of Berg Lake
Mount Robson its watershed
the waters of rejuvenation
Flora & Fauna its tribute
When you have realized your identity
when you take a stand in every understanding
when you cease as a convict in control
Control illusory
the only real control
self-control
After you butt the troll from each bridge in your journey
when your voice is clear strong
call to the heavens
From the spire in inspire
your Knight will deliver
the delicate flowers spirea
You will know the free in freedom
and free to speak
to be listened
Only then will you be free
to see the Phoebes
Kingfishers
And cast away
free from fear
freedom to dream
For those who don’t already know
This poem is not going to glow and flow
It lost its freedom years ago
Guess who dictates how the current theme goes
Arise, Arise!
Freedom is nice
Yet freedom itself comes with a price
Hence the never-ending sacrifice
After years of people giving up lives
Assisting us with out struggle to survive
To end slavery, to gain independence & to acquire autonomy
We have become the latest kind of slave, a slave of technology
Our phone conversations are listened to
Yet there is no one you can sue
Technology is watching us from cameras & satellites
Taking away our precious privacy rights
Freedom of speech, to those I outreach
Does not exist, I teach
Say the wrong things and you will be impeached
So whilst we have taken
One step forward,
We have also taken
Two steps backwards
We the slaves of new technology
Why do we embrace this new ideology?
Everything about you
Can be accessed from a central database
Is this just the beginning of a new phase?
So Arise, Arise!
Freedom is nice
But the price of freedom itself
equals the withdrawal of freedom for some
Hence the never-ending sacrifice
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Soldier, Soldier, cries the child
My father is a freedom fighter
He is fighting for me and my family
He is giving his life for his home land
The sun rises and falls on him
Our enemies have fallen in numbers as dawn comes
We will be free form our enemies
We will have much to celebrate soon
We don't eat even in the hour of noon
The reason? that our hearts are with father
We will be like him when we grow up
Our land will be at the top
We will earn respect form the on lookers
And as a child, I cry for other fathers
If ''The truth shall set you free''
then I have earned my wings.
I finally have faced my past...
even the dark and evil things.
I don't need your forgiveness
or your patronizing smile.
I know that I must do this...
I've known it for awhile.
A part of me was frozen
yet now began the thaw.
I'll show you I will make it...
just stand and watch in awe.
There's nothing I can't conquer
no hill that is too steep.
I'll prove I'm a survivor...
that's a promise I will keep.
If ''The truth shall set you free''
then I have earned my wings.
I finally have faced my past...
even the dark and evil things.
Those who target and maim and kill civilians are not freedom fighters
We ought to make that one straight
They are only misguided lunatics
Who are possessed by mistrust and hate
For those they see as different to them
Who to a different god to them do pray
They sow their seeds of bad karma
And for them the price will be huge to pay.
They only hit soft and easy targets
And on such a heartless and a cowardly way
But for them what goes around will come around
That does seem fair to say.
Freedom fighters never target civilians
Well equipped armies they do not fear
And the stories of their love of Country and their bravery
Are such good stories to hear.
Those who target civilians are not freedom fighters
They only live and die in their shame
They are truly soul-less people
Unworthy of a human name.
Of old sat Freedom on the heights,
The thunders breaking at her feet:
Above her shook the starry lights:
She heard the torrents meet.
There in her place she did rejoice,
Self-gather'd in her prophet-mind,
But fragments of her mighty voice
Came rolling on the wind.
Then stept she down thro' town and field
To mingle with the human race,
And part by part to men reveal'd
The fulness of her face--
Grave mother of majestic works,
From her isle-altar gazing down,
Who, God-like, grasps the triple forks,
And, King-like, wears the crown:
Her open eyes desire the truth.
The wisdom of a thousand years
Is in them. May perpetual youth
Keep dry their light from tears;
That her fair form may stand and shine,
Make bright our days and light our dreams,
Turning to scorn with lips divine
The falsehood of extremes!
realization
a never-ending vision
the horizon
perpetually receding
a being, spinning
quite alone
eyelids dissolved
that second of freedom
when the heart
skips a beat
I can make the sky cry
the clouds fume & rage
worlds shrink
level hills/mountains
smash cities
hold the sun burning in my hand
then swallow it
I am alien
& everyone
& no-one
a giant killer
& a giant
I am dead & alive
where is the ritual
that means more than this?
where has it all gone
if it ever existed at all?
a naked couple
straddles the white steel flagpole
gazing hungrily at the twisting flag
flapping lazily
in the warm breeze above
sweat glistening on their slick backs
they squat in unison
tilting heads back
grasping the pole then
sliding up its length
shimmying, legs elongating
their bodies stretch & merge
transformation of national pride
into tumultuous serpent
twisting on a skewer
meaning — in pain
or in fantasy...
what follows us
will be our shadow
our blood
hot & boiling
with hate
wanting nothing better
than to kill
our rotting memory...
to the insights
of the poetic vision
the truth dictates ignorance
to replace purpose
god cannot undo what has been done
she cries, after she hits me
this hurts me more than it hurts you
& she is right
my pain only occurs in flesh
my conscienceless heart
hung like a stone in cement
youthful arrogant sadism
wielded like a fist in her face
her daughter runs sobbing from the kitchen-knife
held playfully at her throat
now back in the drawer
hidden from view — coveted
she rids the house of all its weapons
to cut meat is father’s privilege
I make the most of my own collection
carving apples with a stolen cutlass
like ‘Jim Hawkins, ’ considering
the spot between the captain’s shoulder-blades...
nothing is as plain as it seems
when you put words to it
when you apply words to the world
hopping like a sand fly
ducking diving dodging hiding
behind between on top of
wind-blown dunes
alive with writhing copulation
through the swaying swishing cutting-grass
pink bodies entwined in a sandy furrow
caught between
a gesture & a pose
you contemplate my gaze
lost
in a beautiful moment
your heart flows
out of your face
into my mouth
burrowing deep
in my throbbing heart
like a knife
I am your servant
my dry lips drink
from your river
from your wounded life
yet words don’t quench
my body’s love for you
without you
the thick air I breathe
is poisonous & empty...
it is terrible without you
when you are next to me
asleep
I dream we are together
forever in dream
or reality — whatever
I will strive to be with you
to appease this thirst
with your beauty
with your evanescent presence
melancholy
your form eludes me
your effect
preys witness
to my beating heart
kids leaping clouds
as quick shadows scroll
across the concrete path
passing fast like planes above1
drawn to a knobbled breast of tree
perched on a reclining withered trunk
whorls of years knotted in grain & bark
an iris of ages — a lichened Aeolian
the wind whistling across its gnarled chest
collapse = expansion due to reversal of time
everything collapses
My god, My god — why have you forsaken me?
Eli Eli lama sabachthani?
Why can’t we see wind?
Early on, I walked the streets & recognised good & evil at play — I first learnt of their essential nature through TV dreams & broken books that wept from septic wounds so bloody & so beautiful.
At home, I watched & participated in the tragic farce of human comedy performed on every urban stage, set against the fantastic nightmare of domesticity & banal relationships.
I
painted hills with fire & houses with blood — walked on the clouds throwing handfuls of dung down on skittering pedestrians hiding under clotheslines, old cars, smashed mailboxes, pornographic magazines held above their shaven heads...
I kept a journal painted with words & crude ink drawings, to record my existence in terms of my surroundings...
Death becomes us
More & more
Shifting stark worlds
Impure to pure
the harsh white light awaits
Dachau’s ashes burn my feet
The asphalt smokes under me
Warheads & bayonets stuck
under my nails
I’ll stroke a stray strand of my beloved’s hair
And I myself shall smoke
crucified Christ-like on wings of bombers
flying through this night to kill Christ’s kids
My skin trembles with explosions
as if it were Vietnam
and breaking my back and ribs
the Berlin Wall runs through me
You talk to me of freedom? Empty question
under umbrellas of bombs in the sky
It’s a disgrace to be free of your own age
A hundred times more shameful than to be its slave
Yes I’m enslaved to Tashkent women
and to Dallas bullets and Peking slogans
and Vietnam widows and Russian women
with picks beside the tracks and kerchiefs over their eyes
Yes I’m not free of Pushkin and Blok
Not free of the State of Maryland and Zima Station
Not free of the Devil and God
Not free of earth’s beauty and its shit
Yes I’m enslaved to a thirst for taking a wet-mop
to the heads of all the bickerers & butchers of the world
Yes I’m enslaved to the honor of busting the mugs
of all the bastards on earth
And maybe I’ll be loved by the people for this
For spending my life
(not without precedent in this iron age)
glorifying unfreedom from
the true struggle for freedom
Translated by Lawrence Ferlinghetti with Anthony Kahn
Responsible Freedom? ?
In love 'Responsible freedom'
is not a choice
For Love's favorite child is Responsibility
And at her birth
Freedom is willingly aborted
We mourn the death of one
And for the life of Love's favorite child rejoice.
For Love's enslavement deafens us
With the sound of Responsibility’s voice.
Can we then speak of freedom of choice?
The stars of freedom light the skies,
Uncrowned queens of yesteryear,
They were born 'mid shades of royal hue',
From mystic wombs they did appear.
Silver gems that pierce the dark.
Heavenly virgins in disguise,
That stir the heart with love and flame,
And light great flames in all men's eyes.
Oh! star of beauty in nightly hue,
You have inspired bondsmen to kings,
And lit the ways of despairing  folk,
From dreams to living things.
In the seas of time you float serene,
Oh! silver stars of nations born,
And you draw a tear to free men's eyes,
Through dungeon bars forlorn.
Oh! star of Erin, queen of tears,
Black clouds have beset thy birth,
And your people die like morning stars,
That your light may grace the earth.
But this Celtic star will be born,
And ne'er by mystic means,
But by a nation sired  in freedom's light,
And not in ancient dreams.
BOBBY SANDS was twenty seven years old when he died on the sixty sixth day of hunger-strike in the H-Block prison hospital, Long Kesh, on the 5th May 1981. The young IRA Volunteer who had spent almost the last nine years of his short life in prison as a result of his Irish republican activities was, by the time of his death, world-famous having been elected to the british parliament and having withstood pressures, political and moral (including an emissary from Pope John Paul II) , for him to abandon his fast which was aimed at countering a criminalisation policy by the british government. His name became a household word in Ireland, and his sacrifice (as did that of those who followed him)  overturned british propaganda on Ireland and had a real effect in advancing the cause of Irish freedom.
i could write volumes
on all i've seen of
desolation and despair
but for what good purpose
no, i can not spread doom
for the world is full
of such loneliness and gloom
when compassion should rule
my lengthy prayers go up above
for peace for one and all
my fellowmen, choose freedom
ah, sweet freedoms steadfast call
Today the little bird
is let out of his cage.
He doesn't know
if his wings will still fly,
but at least he can enjoy
walking around
the garden-like world.
The bird dreams;
in his cage,
even his dreams
often have bars,
but as he strolls in the garden,
he feels like a peacock,
suns and stars and luminous eyes
blazing from his own tail.
Whether he flies or not
is almost immaterial,
for his world today
is cool and green,
and that is Heaven.
Where else
would he wish to soar?
'Twas night, and the moonbeams palely fell
On the gloomy walls of a cheerless cell,
Where a captive sought a brief repose
From the bitter pangs of his waking woes.
O'er the dark blue waves the mighty deep
His spirit roamed in the dream of sleep,
To each well-loved spot of his native shore,
Where joyous he roved in the days of yore.
But o'er each scene a shadow threw
A gloom that never used to be,
All seemed so real, yet so untrue
To things once dear to memory.
The hill-side seemed a prison wall
That, grimly frowning, pained the eye;
The old oak-tree, with branches tall,
Looked like a gibbet 'gainst the sky.
Each face familiar once seemed now
A gaoler-face with a stony stare
A mark was set on each fair brow,
And in each voice were tones of care.
Thus mingled in the dreamer's brain
The present with the olden time,
Life's pleasant things with those of pain
And guiltless days with days of crime.
On, on in dream by lofty hill,
Through forest and o'er stormy wave,
He wandered; but he only still
Beheld a world of fettered slaves.
He saw a king surnamed the Great,
Who ruled the nations by his nod;
To billions his one word was fate -
He was a kind of demi-god.
He sat upon a lofty throne
A monarch, with a monarch's mien,
Earth's fairest forms were all his own,
And untold wealth was his I ween.
In the battlfield his arm was might
And his kingly heart was firm and brave;
But he knew not the charm of freedom's light.
For he was ambition's willing slave.
Then he turned from the monarch's throne to gaze
On a lonely cot in a peaceful dell,
Which lit by the sun's departing rays,
Seemed a home of bliss where no woe could dwell.
At the cottage door, with locks of white,
An old man gazed on the western sky,
And watched the sun's declining light
As it slowely sank from his haggard eye.
Alas! His spirit even there,
Where all around was bright and fair,
Was firmly bound to each crime-stained hour
By vivid mem'ry's haunting power,
While conscience o'er the sea of time
A lurid shade of darkness cast,
And conjured up the deeds of crime
That chained him to a guilty past.
In the captive's dream of fancy wild,
He looked no more on the man of care;
His gaze was fixed on a beauteous child
Who knelt at its mother's feet in prayer.
Its little hands were clasped - its eyes
Uplifted were to paradise;
Its simple words of faith and love
Were registered in heaven above;
Recorded there with angels' tears
As they wept o'er the hopes the mother built,
For they looked through the vista of the coming years,
And saw it fettered to future guilt.
And next he saw a youthful pair,
A gallant youth and maiden fair,
Reclining in a vine wreathed bower
At evening's calm and gentle hour.
Their words were such as lovers speak
When none are near; and on her cheek
The blushes deepened while he knelt
And poured out all his passion felt,
And not in vain. Then surely they
Were happy as a summer-day?
Ah! No, for happiness is twin
To purity of life and soul;
And those who only love in sin
Must wander widely from the goal.
The flowers that scented the ev'ing air,
The stars that gleamed from their home above,
Shed pitying tears for the guilty pair,
For they were the slaves of unholy love.
Then he turned from the things of earth to gaze
On the regions of immortality,
Where seraphs chanted their songs of praise,
And every tongue was tuned in joy,
Where countless thousands, clothed in white,
To angel-harps sang 'We are free,
And all who enter these realms of light
From sin and sorrow shall be as we.
Here freedom's waters bright and fair,
Flow undimmed by a single care;
And all who taste of the crystal tide
Of the stream of life that for ever flows,
Can never again be to sin allied,
And is free forever from earthly woes.'
'Twas now the drear-toned prison bell
Loud-echoed through the captive's cell.
He rose - the vision of the night
Again was present to his sight.
He knelt -with fervency he prayed;
Through faith in Christ, his sins forgiven,
The narrow boundary of the grave
Should be the vestibule of Heaven,
Where, disenthralled from all below,
He'd dwell beyond the starry sky,
Free from the pains of earthly woe,
In never-ending liberty!
To have the right to dream
and to follow it each day
until some tiny part of it
is you in every way
gives zest to all of living
and lets you dream some more
'til at last you are near heaven's gate
as your thoughts lift up and soar.
This, then, the freedom that I seek
for you and all mankind
the spark of real achievement
capturing heart and soul and mind.
To strike off lingering chains of doubt
look out on a new day
where freedom holds you to a task
that asks your best in every way.
Travel light a friend once said to me,
'Yeah right' i thought with my big screen TV,
but over the years I've changed my view,
now i know there are very few things truly essential to you.
Each move I disposed of more sentimental tat,
it became easier as i realised, don't need this, don't need that.
Then one summer's day i was forced from my home,
loads more had to go, into storage went some,
Now i live in a hostel with limited bits,
eight months on, the stored, do i need it?
With every possession also comes responsibility,
burglars shot to save a five pound DVD,
so now I'm working my way to cut off the slack,
i want to end up with just a rucksack,
then I'll have freedom, true freedom to roam,
wherever i lay, that'll be my home.
Many look on what constitutes freedom one might say differently
What seems free to you may not seem free to me
To be ruled by your own people to you as freedom does count
But in the true meaning of freedom that to little amount.
To be ruled by your own people may be seen as quite okay
But if you have to be careful with the words you do say
Then you are not a free person despite about it how you may feel
Your idea of freedom to me does not appeal.
Of love of Country you are one who brag
And your patriotism you carry in your National flag
But despite this your Government you seemingly fear
And they only tell you what you need to hear.
Patriotic songs and ballads many like to sing
And to their admiration of freedom fighters they fervently do cling
And if that's your idea of freedom well that suits me fine
Though your ideas on life are quite different to mine.
when you come
with a knife
I wish to be killed
you kicked,  and  left for ever
a betrayel
a sad cry
and left here
nobody looks
sadly, she come with a pale rose
she  knows
they say
we must fight to keep our freedom
In absolute oblivion
With nature and the forces of existence
Into play
Thousands years of history
Written
Some relics and the forgotten one
Gods word or the wise mans talk
Deriving meaning from the stars
Sun and the moon
Goddesses and deities
The great abstraction
In the realm of thought
Freedom remains the desire
Freedom from the bonds of the humanity
Freedom from all wants
Freedom from the will of others
Imposed or perpetuated
Freedom from ideas
In the name of social consciousness
In the collective realm of the society
Of life and death
Life in community
A dream sought after
The breaking of shackles
Of ideas and the iron chain
The evolutionist’s theory of having attained modernity
The matrix of life stuck between falsehood and reality
With great illusions
Get into the realm of total freedom
Away from the connections and strings
Whose other ends are controlled in places distant
Out from the mischief of the fate defined as luck
Make death the ultimate inspiration
Whirling into circles for the last freedom
That too is another thread of making the other being
As a final destiny of union
Unite with thyself
Leave alone all the philosophies and doctrines
Religions and beliefs
Hold the wine cup of total freedom
All alone
Without any god or fate
Discover for thyself
The ultimate truth
Enter total freedom
From self to self
Leave the saki
Drunk with the wine of total freedom
Declare it to the world
For the god to listen
For the wise to ponder
Let the angels sing into your ears
Let the beauties of paradise
Dance in front of you
In
Total freedom
'Freedom':
an obese woman
at the register,
buying cigarettes
and candy bars.
Different colour
Fishes...
Nicely swimming on
Glass tub...
But fishes was
Crying...
With a water...
Water did not see
Fishes crying...
Fishes crying for freedom...
Yes...
With out of the water tub...
Death is no problem
we want freedom...
we want freedom...
So...
Fishes was cry to play
Play to cry...
On the beauty water tub
At  home....
Ok...
Freedom is one
of the death...?
Or live...!
Remembered
A nation born from war, for the “purpose” of establishing freedom
A nation divided in war, in an “attempt” to fulfill the goal of freedom
A nation engaged in world wars, in the task of “preserving” freedom
A nation policing the world, in the “pursuit” of freedom
So many young lives have been lost, for the “cause” of freedom
Let us remember those who paid the “ultimate price, ” for freedom
And dear God, please tell us! - “What! ” - is freedom?
We need not war
We need not war, to show us how freedom is made
What we need is love to show us how freedom is played.
For freedom is not - but to “do as we please”
But rather, to “please others, ” because of what we achieve.
No such thing!
There is no such passion as hate, - only - a mental state
Of ignorance
For what we fail to understand, from our source of knowledge
We choose the accepted norm of utter indifference
Therefore, our feelings of love, we profoundly fear to acknowledge
“Freedom” is to serve
“To serve requires love; only with love, do we obtain freedom”
8/24/06
Freedom, freedom, freedom!
Whose freedom?
My freedom, your freedom, our freedoms;
Like e thousand times of a cry in a land!
Yes, they rule with iron-hand but,
We have to obey always;
A rule with an iron fist but,
We have to be the subjects always;
Whose freedom?
Look around you,
It is full of colours;
My freedom, your freedom, their freedoms!
Freedom, freedom, freedom! ! !
We nedd freedom than these shackles.
Whose freedom?
Free-free-free! Freedom to my people! !
Which people?
My people, your people, our peoples;
Have mercy on them and rule them with care.
We need freedom around us,
Whose freedom?
See the type of governments around you;
The people's freedom with an iron fist!
Tell me if all is well.
The gift of freedom, is what one seek,
To search the lands, the seas, the skies.
Just for this gift longed by all.
The gift of Wings to fly and soar.
Worlds are combined once again.
United at last, for the gift of Freedom.
Wanting to taste this gift,
One may die, greed or even kill.
Only when voices are unanimous,
Only when worlds are united,
Only when humans no longer envy,
Only then.. Will we truly procure the Wings of Freedom.
Poem by: Sora
on some level we all
are aggregations of cells
like prisons
if life after death exsists
liberated cells celebrate
the absolute freedom
How many noble schemes from goodwill's heart,
how many splendid plans and fine ideas
have foundered, lost their glorious craft and art
through hesitancy born of baseless fears?
We do not see the moment as divine,
thinking that those plans are somehow 'ours';
forgetting, too,  that Providence sublime
yields timeless good through time in human hours:
the task begun, this heavenly Providence
begins to move; bestows her love's support
with means, events, beyond coincidence;
assistance past all dreams of human thought -
be bold! and trust in Providence above:
she brings to earth God's magic; power; and love.
A BEST FRIEND-Makes a lunch trade with you even if he doesn't love peanut butter and jelly.
A BEST FRIEND-Notices you standing alone by the fence and invites you to play hockey with the rest of the class.
A BEST FRIEND-Chooses you to go camping with him each summer.
A BEST FRIEND-Puts chalk in the teacher's eraser so you're not the only
one who has to stay after school.
A BEST FRIEND-Smiles and offers a firm handshake when you make the
high school baseball team and he doesn't.
A BEST FRIEND-Makes you feel just a little bit better every time you talk to him.
A BEST FRIEND-Calls you when he moves into his new dorm room.
A BEST FRIEND-Calls you for no reason at all.
A BEST FRIEND-Mentions you each week when he kneels before his
Maker.
A BEST FRIEND-Never reveals the secret you told him the night you slept
over his house when you were in third grade.
A BEST FRIEND-Remembers who your favorite baseball player is.
A BEST FRIEND-Makes you get out of bed earlier and give your best to
each day.
A BEST FRIEND-Is someone I thank God for everyday.
I have a blind Friend
He's called Ronny
Ron's very Clever
We play Backgammon
Together, amongst
Other things
But I am Worried!
Every time I say Goodbye
I say: 'See ya Later', Ron
Some how I do not Think,
These are the 'right' words?
Maybe something Like,
I'll Smell you later or,
I'll Feel, Taste or Touch you Later
I should work on My
Communication Skills!
There's nane that's blest of human kind,
But the cheerful and the gay, man,
Fal, la, la, &c.
Here's a bottle and an honest friend!
What wad ye wish for mair, man?
Wha kens, before his life may end,
What his share may be o' care, man?
Then catch the moments as they fly,
And use them as ye ought, man:
Believe me, happiness is shy,
And comes not aye when sought, man.
I am haplessly entrenched near a road,
Bogged down by the war's heavy load.
Then as I view the skirmish ahead,
My mind is overcome with a dread.
I can not envision what lies beyond,
That curve, that field, that placid pond.
Will I encounter bloodshed, captivity and tears,
Or will I overcome my deeply rooted fears?
Will I feel pain and anxiety within my frame,
Or charge with a vengeance leading to fame?
I grit my teeth, knit my brow and groan,
When suddenly I realize I was not alone.
There beside me was a fearless friend,
A friend on whom I can trust and depend,
To lead me into battle whatever betides,
I smile with confidence and then follow him - my guide.
YOUR troubles shrink not, though I feel them less
Here, far away, than when I tarried near;
I even smile old smiles--with listlessness--
Yet smiles they are, not ghastly mockeries mere.
A thought too strange to house within my brain
Haunting its outer precincts I discern:
--That I will not show zeal again to learn
Your griefs, and, sharing them, renew my pain....
It goes, like murky bird or buccaneer
That shapes its lawless figure on the main,
And each new impulse tends to make outflee
The unseemly instinct that had lodgment here;
Yet, comrade old, can bitterer knowledge be
Than that, though banned, such instinct was in me!
no body sleeps naked in
this place, were all sophisticated
monkeys, with ties, books and.
shirts. Even adam and eve
wore the latist styles, you
dont believe me, cheak
out the bible, and to think
it all started with that tree.
I.
Gone, O gentle heart and true,
Friend of hopes foregone,
Hopes and hopeful days with you
Gone?
Days of old that shone
Saw what none shall see anew,
When we gazed thereon.
Soul as clear as sunlit dew,
Why so soon pass on,
Forth from all we loved and knew
Gone?
II.
Friend of many a season fled,
What may sorrow send
Toward thee now from lips that said
'Friend'?
Sighs and songs to blend
Praise with pain uncomforted
Though the praise ascend?
Darkness hides no dearer head:
Why should darkness end
Day so soon, O dear and dead
Friend?
III.
Dear in death, thou hast thy part
Yet in life, to cheer
Hearts that held thy gentle heart
Dear.
Time and chance may sear
Hope with grief, and death may part
Hand from hand's clasp here:
Memory, blind with tears that start,
Sees through every tear
All that made thee, as thou art,
Dear.
IV.
True and tender, single-souled,
What should memory do
Weeping o'er the trust we hold
True?
Known and loved of few,
But of these, though small their fold,
Loved how well were you!
Change, that makes of new things old,
Leaves one old thing new;
Love which promised truth, and told
True.
V.
Kind as heaven, while earth's control
Still had leave to bind
Thee, thy heart was toward man's whole
Kind.
Thee no shadows blind
Now:  the change of hours that roll
Leaves thy sleep behind.
Love, that hears thy death-bell toll
Yet, may call to mind
Scarce a soul as thy sweet soul
Kind.
VI.
How should life, O friend, forget
Death, whose guest art thou?
Faith responds to love's regret,
How?
Still, for us that bow
Sorrowing, still, though life be set,
Shines thy bright mild brow.
Yea, though death and thou be met,
Love may find thee now
Still, albeit we know not yet
How.
VII.
Past as music fades, that shone
While its life might last;
As a song-bird's shadow flown
Past!
Death's reverberate blast
Now for music's lord has blown
Whom thy love held fast.
Dead thy king, and void his throne:
Yet for grief at last
Love makes music of his own
Past.
He is sleeping, sounding sleeping
In the cold and silent tomb.
He is resting, sweetly resting
In perfect peace, all alone.
He has left us, God bereft us,
And his will must e'er be done,
It will grieve us, and bereave us
To think of this noble son.
While on earth he done his duty,
To all his fellow men,
Some will miss him in his of office,
Where he often used the pen.
He was witty, always happy,
Kind and genial in his way;
He was generous in his actions,
And his honor could display.
He has held many an office,
And has done his duty well;
And his name will be remembered
By the friends that knew him well.
Friends are weeping, softly weeping,
In his kind and loving home;
Let him slumber, sweetly slumber,
Till God calls him from the tomb.
I was groping for a friend
in a net of eyes by the tube;
I was looking for a brother
in a heart of dearness as old;
I am sharing for a life
to a friend not yet known;
I am trusting a brother
at a distance my dreams've shown.
I am talking to a friend
in a net of dearness by the tube;
I am looking at his eyes
seemed like Moses of old.
I am sharing for a life
to a friend now yet called
at a distance shared a promise
for a newfound life yet assured;
for at a distance, a friend
and a brother, now behold;
he's there, I'm here yet embracing
in this little lovely world.
What has friendship got to do in times of need?
A thousand reasons  perhaps for one to see
Someone in collaboration with unlikely times...,
Thus, I turn to the Great Provider for counsel
And wisdom for such trial,
For I too have also been there
Sometime, somewhere buddy!
I could not offer you fortune,
For I have none but perhaps
Some note to cheer you up
Like the earthworm burrowing in mud
To fit in some kind of home and feel 'comfy'...
Yes, that is you all the while,
Laughing our heartaches to no end
Until they got tired of you;
Such loving  care I find  in you, my friend-
A medicine to a searching soul for passion.
Two friends went to a forest.
One was very much honest,
And the other one was very bad,
Daily, for their livelihood.
One day, they saw a wild bear,
Almost coming close, very near.
The bad man climbed a nearby tree,
But the other one couldn't reach the tree.
He lied below the tree, posing as dead,
As he knew well, bears touch not any dead.
Without moving his limbs, he held his breath.
The bear smelt his body lying in close to death.
After it went away without harming him,
The man from the tree asked him,
What the bear whispered into his ears,
When he remained with closed eyes?
'The bear told me not to trust such
Selfish friends like you, very much,
And also said that a friend in need,
Is really a friend in deed.'
A friend is one who is like me,
or is it one who likes me much,
and maybe someone you can touch?
Perhaps a buddy who would be
in all dark alleys in your need
who'd fish you out of murky waters
and bandage when you slowly bleed
he will protect your sons and daughters
and close the shutters on your house
when rains come down to soil the drapes
a friend will never bring a mouse
or other things like living apes
to scare you out of any wits
that you may still possess today
he will collect you from the pits
and hug you even if you're gay
he'll pay your fare on the express
and go to jail to take your place
and cleaning up of any mess
that you've created, to save face
will all be done without  agenda
no thought of payment does come up
and should you have a fender-bender
he'll hide your bottle from the cop
when very strange ideas come visit
and you decide to pack a shute
to jump, a nut's idea, or is it?
out of an aeroplane you brute
he will be waiting on the ground
his arms wide open and so nervous
and when he hears the crucial sound
he'll think back to his airforce service
and knowing what can go awry
the fretting gets his teeth to clatter
and when you fruitcake finally fly
he murmurs that it doesn't matter
yet as you float in to a landing
his arms are still in catching mode
he'll hide his lack of understanding
and start composing a new ode
to your adventure,  you, the friend
and if your mother or your brother
or any other next of kin
should die and leave you, let another
example of true friendship win
your hand will never feel the cold
or loneliness of cruel fate
and when you wake and have grown old
and all the world is in a state
that narrows down to search of gold
and greed that tramples all that's good
when anarchy eats moral pillars
and thieves no longer wear their hood
when doctors have evolved as killers
and no one seems to give a shit
about all others, beast and man
when humans are no longer fit
your friend who also has his clan
will not be busy with his life
but shake your hand and not let go
and if he has his own sweet wife
he will be there with her in tow
One could go on for many hours
to praise what real friendship is
suffice to say it never sours
and also hardly counts as bliss.
Yet, there are just a few small matters
a friend will stand, no reservation
and if the world is all in tatters
if aliens would attack your nation
there is no compromise at all
and loyalty must be extreme
to share it one will surely fall
that kind of friend is just a dream.
I cannot have a friend who likes
those who have sworn to be my foes
and who would drive their filthy spikes
into my back, who also chose
to live a life of pure decay
and without honour in their hearts
to opportunism they pray
it must be said, it really smarts.
Perhaps a moral could be seen here
before you call yourself a friend
just ask yourself if you have been there
to read these words that don't offend
are you prepared to stand, be counted
no matter what the circumstance
and would you, if the devil mounted
all out attack, could you by chance
be trusted to the road's last bend
or would you stop and smell the flowers
and worry that your life may end
this kind of friendship only sours.
So let me say it with conviction
a friend is one who is your master
who rules within his jurisdiction
and keeps you out of all disaster
and you, in turn are his dictator
who, firm and strict, with iron fist
will rule like Arn the Terminator
I hope by now you get my gist.
A friend can be a sister,
A friend can be a foe.
My friend is like my sister,
I will never let her go.
A sister may not always be a friend,
But a friend should always, no matter what, be a sister.
A friend sends her perfumed carriage
And high-bred horses to fetch me.
I decline the invitation of
My old poetry and wine companion.
I remember the happy days in the lost capital.
We took our ease in the woman's quarters.
The Feast of Lanterns was elaborately celebrated -
Folded pendants, emerald hairpins, brocaded girdles,
New sashes - we competed
To see who was most smartly dressed.
Now I am withering away,
Wind-blown hair, frost temples.
I prefer to stay beyond the curtains,
And listen to talk and laughter
I can no longer share.
Shot in a night of impeccable injustice.
Overflowed with torment and forgiveness.
Placed directed towards my head and waiting.
Pushing through the morbid crowd.
Bright and radiant and shining through,
To talk and save me and open up new doors.
Oh what new things I can learn and love, through this,
This new friendship.
Is this a life, to break thy sleep,
To rise as soon as day doth peep?
To tire thy patient ox or ass
By noon, and let thy good days pass,
Not knowing this, that Jove decrees
Some mirth, t' adulce man's miseries?
--No; 'tis a life to have thine oil
Without extortion from thy soil;
Thy faithful fields to yield thee grain,
Although with some, yet little pain;
To have thy mind, and nuptial bed,
With fears and cares uncumbered
A pleasing wife, that by thy side
Lies softly panting like a bride;
--This is to live, and to endear
Those minutes Time has lent us here.
Then, while fates suffer, live thou free,
As is that air that circles thee;
And crown thy temples too; and let
Thy servant, not thy own self, sweat,
To strut thy barns with sheaves of wheat.
--Time steals away like to a stream,
And we glide hence away with them:
No sound recalls the hours once fled,
Or roses, being withered;
Nor us, my friend, when we are lost,
Like to a dew, or melted frost.
--Then live we mirthful while we should,
And turn the iron age to gold;
Let's feast and frolic, sing and play,
And thus less last, than live our day.
Whose life with care is overcast,
That man's not said to live, but last;
Nor is't a life, seven years to tell,
But for to live that half seven well;
And that we'll do, as men who know,
Some few sands spent, we hence must go,
Both to be blended in the urn,
From whence there's never a return.
Time does pass us by so very fast,
Only a moment’s pause, dawn is dusk,
But the moments we had will surely last,
Till the day these bones are dust.
The stars above light the night sky,
Cheering the moon, joyful as can be,
I promise you, our friendship is no lie,
You are my true friend, a part of me.
Though these words can hardly describe,
How strong the bond of you and I,
Never shall I bow down to fate and chance,
That will change my heart for you.
So long as I can breathe the air around me,
I will cherish you, my friend, for eternity…
652
A Prison gets to be a friend—
Between its Ponderous face
And Ours—a Kinsmanship express—
And in its narrow Eyes—
We come to look with gratitude
For the appointed Beam
It deal us—stated as our food—
And hungered for—the same—
We learn to know the Planks—
That answer to Our feet—
So miserable a sound—at first—
Nor ever now—so sweet—
As plashing in the Pools—
When Memory was a Boy—
But a Demurer Circuit—
A Geometric Joy—
The Posture of the Key
That interrupt the Day
To Our Endeavor—Not so real
The Check of Liberty—
As this Phantasm Steel—
Whose features—Day and Night—
Are present to us—as Our Own—
And as escapeless—quite—
The narrow Round—the Stint—
The slow exchange of Hope—
For something passiver—Content
Too steep for lookinp up—
The Liberty we knew
Avoided—like a Dream—
Too wide for any Night but Heaven—
If That—indeed—redeem—
At the highways of woes
a traveller viewed the wind blows,
as he climb up a fearful trail
on top of a mountain or a hill.
He searched unbearable things
that he wouldn't want to know.
He longed for something unknown
that he wouldn't like to see.
He's cleaving for something unusual
that he wouldn't want to feel.
Now, all the things provided
as he searched on the unprovided!
What is it then that you see
in your naked eyes as it slips away?
What is it then that you feel
in your naked skin as it wards away?
Ah, the only way to a true friend
is the heart with gladness,
willingness to share what is it
treasured deep in his own senses!
A shady friend for torrid days
Is easier to find
Than one of higher temperature
For frigid hour of mind.
The vane a little to the east
Scares muslin souls away;
If broadcloth breasts are firmer
Than those of organdy,
Who is to blame? The weaver?
Ah! the bewildering thread!
The tapestries of paradise!
So notelessly are made!
There's a gleam of green in an old bottle,
There's a stir of red in the quiet stove,
There's a feeling of snow in the dusk outside --
What about a cup of wine inside?
A true friend is always there for you
A true friend will help you no matter ther problem
A true friend is like a sister, she knows your better, than you know yourself
A true friend is someone who knows when you're sad, ans can cheer you up when you need it most
A true friend is someone that can make you laugh no matter what they say or do
A true friend is someone who believes in you
A true friend will stick by your side
A true friend is someone you can call just if you need a shoulder to lean on
But most of all a true friend will never leave you
(12-5-04)
He laughed and I laughed with him,
He joked and I joked too,
He smiled and took away despair,
And with it, the doldrums flew.
He raised my spirits upwards,
And left no dread behind,
He was the perfect anecdote,
He was so sweet and kind.
The heart can become heavy,
With all the pressures found,
And when this starts to happen,
You need him to be around.
We all need some uplifting,
We all need light relief,
If one can do this for someone,
It's a gift beyond belief.
©   Ernestine Northover
A true friend is someone who will always be,
always be there when a friend is in need.
A true friend is someone who will see the
things that you see and never disrespect you
for what you believe.
A true friend will be there from the start
and gives you their whole heart.
A true friend will never push you away and
they only say things that will make you stay.
A true friend will make you feel warm inside
and not cold like a true winters night.
I am so glad I can call you a true friend,
for you have done all the things that make
you my friend.
'Be like water, my friend, be like water,
Don’t be rigid; just go with a flow...'
'Be like water' - you asked me. 'Don't hold to me.
I am leaving, so please let me go.'
'Water is shapeless, my friend, water is flowing
Water is moving; and it cannot die...
It may freeze sometimes, when it gets too cold,
But you know, the spring will arrive.'
***
I’m becoming shapeless, I’m becoming fluid,
I am listening to what you say...
I got frozen, my friend, by your sudden coldness
But I’m finding through cracks my new way.
***
Now I am floating, again. I am glowing.
I’m reflecting the sun and the sky...
And sometimes the clouds. And the wind is blowing...
I’m already far away...Just stopped to wave 'Good Bye! '
October 6,2005
I could easily foretell
You had something to tell
As you dropped a stinking bombshell
Farewell, farewell my friend
With words I spell
It all out in a nutshell
Farewell, farewell my friend
What else can I say?
When you take off today for good
Farewell I say with a broken mood
Farewell there goes my wedding bell
Farewell there goes your innocent smell
Farewell there goes our fun in and out of hotels
Farewell I hope that life treats you well
Farewell in your ventures
Our spent time is my treasure
Your heart must wander to where it belongs
Friend, I only urge you to be strong
With love you can simply do no wrong
I say it with these words tipping off my tongue
Farewell, farewell my friend
I am a great believer
Farewell is not forever
I say not goodbye
I do not wish to sit and cry
Farewell, farewell my friend
What else can I say?
You weren’t meant to stay
I will do nothing to detain
You from flying on that plane
Farewell, farewell my friend
I say with pain
Farewell, farewell my friend
In sunshine or in rain
One day, one day
I know we’ll see again
Farewell, farewell my friend
I cannot stand and pretend
That a part me
With you, would still like to be!
FEAR not, dear friend, but freely live your days
Though lesser lives should suffer.  Such am I,
A lesser life, that what is his of sky
Gladly would give for you, and what of praise.
Step, without trouble, down the sunlit ways.
We that have touched your raiment, are made whole
From all the selfish cankers of man's soul,
And we would see you happy, dear, or die.
Therefore be brave, and therefore, dear, be free;
Try all things resolutely, till the best,
Out of all lesser betters, you shall find;
And we, who have learned greatness from you, we,
Your lovers, with a still, contented mind,
See you well anchored in some port of rest.
We meet many people in life,
Some just appear and disappear too
Like pretty butterflies,
Some stay for a while leaving behind
A sweet-scented fragrance of a flower,
Few stay longer,
Intense friendship while it lasted,
Then, gone suddenly, only
To reminisce as a pleasant memory!
But there are a few,
That you can count on your fingers,
That stay steady and strong,
Firmly rooted like a Peepal tree,
Throughout your life.
One such friend of mine is Shireen Isal!
We met each other professionally
Thirty three years ago,
When I was an aspiring danseuse.
She watched me dance Mohiniattam
And before I knew what was happening in my life,
I was dancing in different parts of Europe-
France, Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg,
Switzerland and England.
If the word ‘Mohiniattam' is known to some in Europe,
It is all because of the effort put in by Shireen.
The credit of popularising and propagating
Indian Classical dance and music in the
European countries, undeniably, goes to her.
Shireen has been one of the pioneers
Promoting the best of Indian artistes in Europe.
In her list of artistes are some great ones
Like Ravi Shankar, Lakshmi Shankar,
Bismillah Khan, Parveen Sultana,
Malvika Sarukkai, Rohinton Cama
And many more.
I was lucky to have her as my Impressario.
We worked together almost till
The end of the 20th century.
The last tour was in 1997,
When my daughter and I danced together
Touring England in celebration of
India's 50 years of Independence.
But the story does not end here.
Shireen and I continued our association
And became very good friends.
Every year when Shireen came down
From London to Mumbai,
We met over lunch,
Talked on every subject of life,
From mundane to high philosophy.
Early this year when we met
She gifted me a book authored by her.
A beautiful book on her French teacher
Zenobia Mistri! A teacher par excellence!
An incentive to write another poem
In my teacher series!
Thank you Shireen, for your faith in me,
And your warm, beautiful friendship!
Dearly I love a friend; yet a foe I may turn to my profit;
Friends show me that which I can; foes teach me that which I should.
Friend, in the desolate time, when your soul is enshrouded in darkness
When, in a deep abyss, memory and feeling die out,
Intellect timidly gropes among shadowy forms and illusions
Heart can no longer sigh, eye is unable to weep;
When, from your night-clouded soul the wings of fire have fallen
And you, to nothing, afraid, feel yourself sinking once more,
Say, who rescues you then?—Who is the comforting angel
Brings to your innermost soul order and beauty again,
Building once more your fragmented world, restoring the fallen
Altar, and when it is raised, lighting the sacred flame?-—
None but the powerful being who first from the limitless darkness
Kissed to life seraphs and woke numberless suns to their dance.
None but the holy Word who called the worlds into existence
And in whose power the worlds move on their paths to this day.
Therefore, rejoice, oh friend, and sing in the darkness of sorrow:
Night is the mother of day, Chaos the neighbor of God.
A FRIEND IS A FRIEND
WELL BEYOND THE END
BECAUSE A FRIEND
LIVES IN THE HEART
AND IN THE SOUL
WHICH TURNS INTO
SWEET MEMORIES
WHEN YOU FALL APART
AND LOOSE CONTROL
A FRIEND IS A FRIEND
WELL BEYOND THE END
BECAUSE A FRIEND
SHARE A GOOD CHEERS
THROUGH SADNESS AND TEARS
LETTING YOU KNOW
THAT YOU HAVE A FRIEND HERE
A FRIEND IS A FRIEND
WELL BEYOND THE END
BECAUSE A FRIEND IS THERE
THROUGH  SORROW AND PAIN
LAUGHTER AND SMILES
BECAUSE AT ANYTIME
A FRIEND CAN BE THERE
He is such a friend I remember
He is lovely and cute light ray
I see him from far and feel sure
Pure light who guides my path.
I know he is very far from me
But I see him near as he dwells
Inside my heart in each beat
I see he writes love and sings.
He is friend of far a star light
He is super and powerful I love
I know he is ever true and eternal
He remains far and still holds me.
We shake hands of wisdom near him
He comes and we go with him home
Really very precious friend he is
I am and you are all fortunate dear.
Art thou abroad on this stormy night
on thy journey of love, my friend?
The sky groans like one in despair.
I have no sleep tonight.
Ever and again I open my door and look out on
the darkness, my friend!
I can see nothing before me.
I wonder where lies thy path!
By what dim shore of the ink-black river,
by what far edge of the frowning forest,
through what mazy depth of gloom art thou threading
thy course to come to me, my friend?
A Friend:
One, Who Helps You Get Out Of A Jam
A Partner:
… Is Usually In The  Jam With You
A Pal:
Is The One, Who Usually Gets You In The Jam
An Acquaintance:
Someone, Who Heard About The Jam
A Buddy:
Says … Its Your Own Jam Fault …
Friend, your white beard sweeps the ground.
Why do you stand, expectant?
Do you hope to see it
In one of your withered days?
With your old eyes
Do you hope to see
The triumphal march of justice?
Do not wait, friend!
Take your white beard
And your old eyes
To more tender lands.
Ah, Posthumus!  our years hence fly
And leave no sound:  nor piety,
Or prayers, or vow
Can keep the wrinkle from the brow;
But we must on,
As fate does lead or draw us; none,
None, Posthumus, could e'er decline
The doom of cruel Proserpine.
The pleasing wife, the house, the ground
Must all be left, no one plant found
To follow thee,
Save only the curst cypress-tree!
--A merry mind
Looks forward, scorns what's left behind;
Let's live, my Wickes, then, while we may,
And here enjoy our holiday.
We've seen the past best times, and these
Will ne'er return; we see the seas,
And moons to wane,
But they fill up their ebbs again;
But vanish'd man,
Like to a lily lost, ne'er can,
Ne'er can repullulate, or bring
His days to see a second spring.
But on we must, and thither tend,
Where Ancus and rich Tullus blend
Their sacred seed;
Thus has infernal Jove decreed;
We must be made,
Ere long a song, ere long a shade.
Why then, since life to us is short,
Let's make it full up by our sport.
Crown we our heads with roses then,
And 'noint with Tyrian balm; for when
We two are dead,
The world with us is buried.
Then live we free
As is the air, and let us be
Our own fair wind, and mark each one
Day with the white and lucky stone.
We are not poor, although we have
No roofs of cedar, nor our brave
Baiae, nor keep
Account of such a flock of sheep;
Nor bullocks fed
To lard the shambles; barbels bred
To kiss our hands; nor do we wish
For Pollio's lampreys in our dish.
If we can meet, and so confer,
Both by a shining salt-cellar,
And have our roof,
Although not arch'd, yet weather-proof,
And cieling free,
From that cheap candle-baudery;
We'll eat our bean with that full mirth
As we were lords of all the earth.
Well, then, on what seas we are tost,
Our comfort is, we can't be lost.
Let the winds drive
Our bark, yet she will keep alive
Amidst the deeps;
'Tis constancy, my Wickes, which keeps
The pinnace up; which, though she errs
I' th' seas, she saves her passengers.
Say, we must part; sweet mercy bless
Us both i' th' sea, camp, wilderness!
Can we so far
Stray, to become less circular
Than we are now?
No, no, that self-same heart, that vow
Which made us one, shall ne'er undo,
Or ravel so, to make us two.
Live in thy peace; as for myself,
When I am bruised on the shelf
Of time, and show
My locks behung with frost and snow;
When with the rheum,
The cough, the pthisic, I consume
Unto an almost nothing; then,
The ages fled, I'll call again,
And with a tear compare these last
Lame and bad times with those are past,
While Baucis by,
My old lean wife, shall kiss it dry;
And so we'll sit
By th' fire, foretelling snow and slit
And weather by our aches, grown
Now old enough to be our own
True calendars, as puss's ear
Wash'd o'er 's, to tell what change is near;
Then to assuage
The gripings of the chine by age,
I'll call my young
Iulus to sing such a song
I made upon my Julia's breast,
And of her blush at such a feast.
Then shall he read that flower of mine
Enclosed within a crystal shrine;
A primrose next;
A piece then of a higher text;
For to beget
In me a more transcendant heat,
Than that insinuating fire
Which crept into each aged sire
When the fair Helen from her eyes
Shot forth her loving sorceries;
At which I'll rear
Mine aged limbs above my chair;
And hearing it,
Flutter and crow, as in a fit
Of fresh concupiscence, and cry,
'No lust there's like to Poetry.'
Thus frantic, crazy man, God wot,
I'll call to mind things half-forgot;
And oft between
Repeat the times that I have seen;
Thus ripe with tears,
And twisting my Iulus' hairs,
Doting, I'll weep and say, 'In truth,
Baucis, these were my sins of youth.'
Then next I'Il cause my hopeful lad,
If a wild apple can be had,
To crown the hearth;
Lar thus conspiring with our mirth;
Then to infuse
Our browner ale into the cruse;
Which, sweetly spiced, we'll first carouse
Unto the Genius of the house.
Then the next health to friends of mine.
Loving the brave Burgundian wine,
High sons of pith,
Whose fortunes I have frolick'd with;
Such as could well
Bear up the magic bough and spell;
And dancing 'bout the mystic Thyrse,
Give up the just applause to verse;
To those, and then again to thee,
We'll drink, my Wickes, until we be
Plump as the cherry,
Though not so fresh, yet full as merry
As the cricket,
The untamed heifer, or the pricket,
Until our tongues shall tell our ears,
We're younger by a score of years.
Thus, till we see the fire less shine
From th' embers than the kitling's eyne,
We'll still sit up,
Sphering about the wassail cup,
To all those times
Which gave me honour for my rhymes;
The coal once spent, we'll then to bed,
Far more than night bewearied.
509
If anybody's friend be dead
It's sharpest of the theme
The thinking how they walked alive—
At such and such a time—
Their costume, of a Sunday,
Some manner of the Hair—
A prank nobody knew but them
Lost, in the Sepulchre—
How warm, they were, on such a day,
You almost feel the date—
So short way off it seems—
And now—they're Centuries from that—
How pleased they were, at what you said—
You try to touch the smile
And dip your fingers in the frost—
When was it—Can you tell—
You asked the Company to tea—
Acquaintance—just a few—
And chatted close with this Grand Thing
That don't remember you—
Past Bows, and Invitations—
Past Interview, and Vow—
Past what Ourself can estimate—
That—makes the Quick of Woe!
If you had a friend strong, simple, true,
Who knew your faults and who understood;
Who believed in the very best of you,
And who cared for you as a father would;
Who would stick by you to the very end,
Who would smile however the world might frown:
I'm sure you would try to please your friend,
You never would think to throw him down.
And supposing your friend was high and great,
And he lived in a palace rich and tall,
And sat like a King in shining state,
And his praise was loud on the lips of all;
Well then, when he turned to you alone,
And he singled you out from all the crowd,
And he called you up to his golden throne,
Oh, wouldn't you just be jolly proud?
If you had a friend like this, I say,
So sweet and tender, so strong and true,
You'd try to please him in every way,
You'd live at your bravest -- now, wouldn't you?
His worth would shine in the words you penned;
You'd shout his praises . . . yet now it's odd!
You tell me you haven't got such a friend;
You haven't? I wonder . . . What of God?
My faithful friend, if you can see
The fruit to grow up, or the tree;
If you can see the colour come
Into the blushing pear or plum;
If you can see the water grow
To cakes of ice, or flakes of snow;
If you can see that drop of rain
Lost in the wild sea once again;
If you can see how dreams do creep
Into the brain by easy sleep:--
--Then there is hope that you may see
Her love me once, who now hates me.
I NOW, O friend, whom noiselessly the snows
Settle around, and whose small chamber grows
Dusk as the sloping window takes its load:
* * * * *
The kindly hill, as to complete our hap,
Has ta'en us in the shelter of her lap;
Well sheltered in our slender grove of trees
And ring of walls, we sit between her knees;
A disused quarry, paved with rose plots, hung
With clematis, the barren womb whence sprung
The crow-stepped house itself, that now far seen
Stands, like a bather, to the neck in green.
A disused quarry, furnished with a seat
Sacred to pipes and meditation meet
For such a sunny and retired nook.
There in the clear, warm mornings many a book
Has vied with the fair prospect of the hills
That, vale on vale, rough brae on brae, upfills
Halfway to the zenith all the vacant sky
To keep my loose attention. . . .
Horace has sat with me whole mornings through:
And Montaigne gossiped, fairly false and true;
And chattering Pepys, and a few beside
That suit the easy vein, the quiet tide,
The calm and certain stay of garden-life,
Far sunk from all the thunderous roar of strife.
There is about the small secluded place
A garnish of old times; a certain grace
Of pensive memories lays about the braes:
The old chestnuts gossip tales of bygone days.
Here, where some wandering preacher, blest Lazil,
Perhaps, or Peden, on the middle hill
Had made his secret church, in rain or snow,
He cheers the chosen residue from woe.
All night the doors stood open, come who might,
The hounded kebbock mat the mud all night.
Nor are there wanting later tales; of how
Prince Charlie's Highlanders . . .
* * * * *
I have had talents, too.  In life's first hour
God crowned with benefits my childish head.
Flower after flower, I plucked them; flower by flower
Cast them behind me, ruined, withered, dead.
Full many a shining godhead disappeared.
From the bright rank that once adorned her brow
The old child's Olympus
* * * * *
Gone are the fair old dreams, and one by one,
As, one by one, the means to reach them went,
As, one by one, the stars in riot and disgrace,
I squandered what . . .
There shut the door, alas! on many a hope
Too many;
My face is set to the autumnal slope,
Where the loud winds shall . . .
There shut the door, alas! on many a hope,
And yet some hopes remain that shall decide
My rest of years and down the autumnal slope.
* * * * *
Gone are the quiet twilight dreams that I
Loved, as all men have loved them; gone!
I have great dreams, and still they stir my soul on high -
Dreams of the knight's stout heart and tempered will.
Not in Elysian lands they take their way;
Not as of yore across the gay champaign,
Towards some dream city, towered . . .
and my . . .
The path winds forth before me, sweet and plain,
Not now; but though beneath a stone-grey sky
November's russet woodlands toss and wail,
Still the white road goes thro' them, still may I,
Strong in new purpose, God, may still prevail.
* * * * *
I and my like, improvident sailors!
* * * * *
At whose light fall awaking, all my heart
Grew populous with gracious, favoured thought,
And all night long thereafter, hour by hour,
The pageant of dead love before my eyes
Went proudly, and old hopes with downcast head
Followed like Kings, subdued in Rome's imperial hour,
Followed the car; and I . . .
205
I should not dare to leave my friend,
Because—because if he should die
While I was gone—and I—too late—
Should reach the Heart that wanted me—
If I should disappoint the eyes
That hunted—hunted so—to see—
And could not bear to shut until
They "noticed" me—they noticed me—
If I should stab the patient faith
So sure I'd come—so sure I'd come—
It listening—listening—went to sleep—
Telling my tardy name—
My Heart would wish it broke before—
Since breaking then—since breaking then—
Were useless as next morning's sun—
Where midnight frosts—had lain!
Poor, weak and worthless though I am
I have a rich almighty friend;
Jesus, the Saviour, is His Name;
He freely loves, and without end.
He ransomed me from hell with blood,
And by His pow'r my foes controlled;
He found me wand'ring far from God,
And brought me to His chosen fold.
He cheers my heart, my wants supplies,
And says that I shall shortly be,
Enthroned with Him above the skies;
O what a friend is Christ to me!
But ah! I my inmost spirit mourns,
And well my eyes with tears may swim,
To think of my perverse returns;
I've been a faithless friend to him.
Often my gracious Friend I grieve,
Neglect, distrust, and disobey,
And often Satan's lies believe,
Sooner than all my Friend can say.
He bids me always freely come,
And promises whate'er I ask:
But I am straitened, cold and dumb,
And count my privilege a task.
Before the world that hates his course,
My treach'rous heart has throbbed with shame;
Loth to forego the worlds applause,
I hardly dare avow his name.
Sure were not I most vile and base,
I could not thus my friend requite!
And were not he the God of grace,
He'd frown and spurn me from his sight.
Pet was never mourned as you,
Purrer of the spotless hue,
Plumy tail, and wistful gaze
While you humoured our queer ways,
Or outshrilled your morning call
Up the stairs and through the hall -
Foot suspended in its fall -
While, expectant, you would stand
Arched, to meet the stroking hand;
Till your way you chose to wend
Yonder, to your tragic end.
Never another pet for me!
Let your place all vacant be;
Better blankness day by day
Than companion torn away.
Better bid his memory fade,
Better blot each mark he made,
Selfishly escape distress
By contrived forgetfulness,
Than preserve his prints to make
Every morn and eve an ache.
From the chair whereon he sat
Sweep his fur, nor wince thereat;
Rake his little pathways out
Mid the bushes roundabout;
Smooth away his talons’ mark
From the claw-worn pine-tree bark,
Where he climbed as dusk embrowned,
Waiting us who loitered round.
Strange it is this speechless thing,
Subject to our mastering,
Subject for his life and food
To our gift, and time, and mood;
Timid pensioner of us Powers,
His existence ruled by ours,
Should - by crossing at a breath
Into safe and shielded death,
By the merely taking hence
Of his insignificance -
Loom as largened to the sense,
Shape as part, above man’s will,
Of the Imperturbable.
As a prisoner, flight debarred,
Exercising in a yard,
Still retain I, troubled, shaken,
Mean estate, by him forsaken;
And this home, which scarcely took
Impress from his little look,
By his faring to the Dim
Grows all eloquent of him.
Housemate, I can think you still
Bounding to the window-sill,
Over which I vaguely see
Your small mound beneath the tree,
Showing in the autumn shade
That you moulder where you played.
In measured verse I'll now rehearse
The charms of lovely Anna:
And, first, her mind is unconfined
Like any vast savannah.
Ontario's lake may fitly speak
Her fancy's ample bound:
Its circuit may, on strict survey
Five hundred miles be found.
Her wit descends on foes and friends
Like famed Niagara's fall;
And travellers gaze in wild amaze,
And listen, one and all.
Her judgment sound, thick, black, profound,
Like transatlantic groves,
Dispenses aid, and friendly shade
To all that in it roves.
If thus her mind to be defined
America exhausts,
And all that's grand in that great land
In similes it costs --
Oh how can I her person try
To image and portray?
How paint the face, the form how trace,
In which those virtues lay?
Another world must be unfurled,
Another language known,
Ere tongue or sound can publish round
Her charms of flesh and bone.
My best friend had lots of curls
but wasn’t like the other girls
who stayed dressed up and always clean.
My best friend wore old blue jeans.
She loved to do things just like me,
like building forts and climbing trees.
She stubbed her toe, and to stop the blood,
we both walked barefoot through the mud.
She could pitch a baseball, make it fly
much faster than most any guy.
And when she ran, her feet had wings!
My best friend could do anything.
All summer long we stayed outside
pretending things and riding bikes
or sometimes wading in the creek
where I fell down and skinned my knee.
One autumn day, I saw her cry.
I felt so sad when she told me why.
The doctors told her she was sick
and she needed treatment, really quick.
Her parents drove her.  I watched them go,
and doctors still don’t really know
just how to cure the thing she had
that made her sick and feel so bad.
One rainy night she went away
up to heaven where she will stay,
but her memory will never end
‘cause I’ll always remember
my best friend.
He is my best friend
a pal on who I can depend.
We are always together,
I love him in a funny sort of way
but I hasten to add, I’m certainly not gay
He always gets all the attention
I’m sure he goes out with that intention.
Females fondle him quite unashamedly,
whilst I observe  with a tinge of envy.
But he is a real good looking guy
a guy that attracts admiring female glances
and oh boy he certainly gets his chances.
Yet from birth when he learned to walk
my best friend has never been able to talk.
He understands everything that I say,
he communicates with me in his own special way.
Tonight we are watching the TV
but I am bored, it’s a re-run on BBC.
I glance at the clock it’s quarter to nine
the weather outside is warm and fine
I say  ‘‘ lets  go to the pub
for a few  glasses of  ale.”
He jumps up makes for the door
wagging his tail.
Need I say more,  my best friend is
A handsome Labrador
There is a miracle called in friendship
That miracle of friendship brought you
as my dearest friend
I have so many friends
but you are the only one impressed in my mind and heart
I know you are the most valuable gift for me
and it's my pleasure to have you as my dear friend
Your friendship is a precious gift to be cherished and natured
Your friendship is reflect on me who you are
There are so many friends come and go
but precious friend like you I can hold on it
You are like a star very far from me
but I know you are there for me
I can remember some one told me that
'Friends are born but not made'
Yes, we are born for each other
Let me be what I know best
my friend that's always known ' my best friend'.
Good morning
Get up the bed
Smile to love...
Eat break fast
Eat to love...
Work will be
Work to love...
Speak to your's
Familey members
And friend's to love
Eat lunch to love
Evening play to love
Take rest to love
Go to bed to love
Fuke will be do to love
Eat dinner to love
Sleep the bed too love
Do do love
Each every time to love
Not only today
Do every day too love...!
Good night
Bye kiss
With love your's friend...
118
My friend attacks my friend!
Oh Battle picturesque!
Then I turn Soldier too,
And he turns Satirist!
How martial is this place!
Had I a mighty gun
I think I'd shoot the human race
And then to glory run!
My friend iudge not me,
Thou seest I iudge not thee:
Betwixt the stirrop and the ground,
Mercy I askt, mercy I found.
My friend iudge not me,
Thou seest I iudge not thee:
Betwixt the stirrop and the ground,
Mercy I askt, mercy I found.
On poemhunter I've found a new friend,
Her comments she'll regularly send,
She's boosted my ego
Thus, helping my 'lines' flow
On her I know I can depend.
Her name's Mary Nagy you see,
She could not be nicer to me,
She's open and honest
And one of the bonniest
People.  I know you'll agree.
So I want to now, thank her, for sure,
I hope she won't think me a bore,
But she's such a great mate
To her I can relate,
So I send her best wishes galore.
From your 'adopted' Mom.
©   Ernestine Northover
92
My friend must be a Bird—
Because it flies!
Mortal, my friend must be,
Because it dies!
Barbs has it, like a Bee!
Ah, curious friend!
Thou puzzlest me!
Who will forgive me for the things I do?
With no special legend of God to refer to,
With my calm white pedigree, my yankee kin,
I think it would be better to be a Jew.
I forgive you for what you did not do.
I am impossibly quilty. Unlike you,
My Friend, I can not blame my origin
With no special legend or God to refer to.
They wear The Crucifix as they are meant to do.
Why do their little crosses trouble you?
The effigies that I have made are genuine,
(I think it would be better to be a Jew).
Watching my mother slowly die I knew
My first release. I wish some ancient bugaboo
Followed me. But my sin is always my sin.
With no special legend or God to refer to.
Who will forgive me for the things I do?
To have your reasonable hurt to belong to
Might ease my trouble like liquor or aspirin.
I think it would be better to be a Jew.
And if I lie, I lie because I love you,
Because I am bothered by the things I do,
Because your hurt invades my calm white skin:
With no special legend or God to refer to,
I think it would be better to be a Jew.
Art thou abroad on this stormy night
on thy journey of love, my friend?
The sky groans like one in despair.
I have no sleep tonight.
Ever and again I open my door and look out on
the darkness, my friend!
I can see nothing before me.
I wonder where lies thy path!
By what dim shore of the ink-black river,
by what far edge of the frowning forest,
through what mazy depth of gloom art thou threading
thy course to come to me, my friend?
—he's a dandy
—small moustache
—usually sucking on a cigar
he tends to lean into cars as he
transacts business
first time I met him, he said,
"hey! ya gonna make a
killin'?"
"maybe," I answered.
next meeting it was:
"hey, Ramrod! what's
happening?"
"very little," I told
him.
next time I had my girlfriend with me
and he just
grinned.
next time I was
alone.
"hey," he asked, "where's the young
chick?"
"I left her at home...."
"
Bullshit
! I'll bet she dumped
you!"
and the next time
he really leaned into the car:
"what's a guy like
you
doing driving a
BMW! I'll bet you inherited your
money, you didn't get this car with your
brains!"
"how'd you guess?" I
answered.
that was some weeks ago.
I haven't seen him lately.
feIlow like that, chances are he just moved on
to better
things.
My friend tree
I sawed you down
but I must attend
an older friend
the sun
My groom and friend came from afar.
I kiss your feet!
He drew his circle around me.
I kiss your hands!
Light seems to set the world apart.
I kiss your armor!
And earth's idols do not attract me.
I kiss your wings!
The yoke of love is light and sweet.
I kiss your shoulders!
Your brand is burned upon my heart.
I kiss your lips!
My friend, Sherla, was hard to see
for Mom and Dad, not me.
My imaginary friend was all I had.
I’m an only child, you see.
Most times Sherla was really good.
We did puzzles, read, and played.
We made our beds and cleaned our room
ALMOST every single day.
But sometimes Sherla spilled my milk,
sometimes she wrote on walls,
sometimes she told me not to come
when Mom and Daddy called.
I had to have a talk with her
about being a naughty kid,
cause I’m the one who got time out
for all the things she did.
It’s different now, I go to school
and I have friends everywhere.
Sherla doesn’t come here now
and I thought I she didn’t care.
Mom told me Sherla’s ‘special’
cause only I could see,
but now she lives with someone else
who needs her more than me.
Sitting front of my computer
and waiting for your mails
When ever I hear from you
my days are brighten
No body has ever spoke to me
the way you do
Even our friendship exists
through the net
Though I have not seen your face
I have not heard your voice
I don't know who you are
But I know what ever you say
that's comes from your heart
I have pictured you what I think of you
perhaps you too have done it
I thank you for considering me
your email friend
I am glad that I met you
Now you are my best internet friend
My most Distinguished Guest and Learned Friend,
The pallid hare that runs before the day
Having brought your earnest counsels to an end
Now have I somewhat of my own to say:
That it is folly to be sunk in love,
And madness plain to make the matter known,
There are no mysteries you are verger of;
Everyman's wisdoms these are, and my own.
If I have flung my heart unto a hound
I have done ill, it is a certain thing;
Yet breathe I freer, walk I the more sound
On my sick bones for this brave reasoning?
Soon must I say, " 'Tis prowling Death I hear!"
Yet come no better off, for my quick ear.
When Faith and Love, which parted from thee never,
Had ripened thy just soul to dwell with God,
Meekly thou didst resign this earthly load
Of death, called life, which us from life doth sever.
Thy works, and alms, and all thy good endeavour,
Stayed not behind, nor in the grave were trod;
But, as Faith pointed with her golden rod,
Followed thee up to joy and bliss for ever.
Love led them on; and Faith, who knew them best
Thy handmaids, clad them o’er with purple beams
And azure wings, that up they flew so drest,
And speak the truth of thee on glorious themes
Before the Judge; who henceforth bid thee rest,
And drink thy fill of pure immortal streams.
Children are like buds of flowers.
Nourish them with good thoughts,
Feed them on quality education,
And they would turn into a valley if flowers.
Their smile brings spring.
And their tears the monsoon.
They are the hope and future,
If they are allowed to bloom.
Very lucky we were
To have Nehru at the helm,
Who had vision for India
And a pure love for them.
He worked tirelessly
To bring cheer in their lives,
By quality health care
And made education a delight.
No wonder we the children
Remember him years on end
And we know on this Childrens’ Day
Chacha Nehru was our best friend.
Sister, Friend, Why!
Sister, friend, you are so beautiful.
Why do you let him put you down?
Yelling, screaming, hitting, insults, cries of pain.
Sister, friend, you are a child of God.
When are you going to let go and give it to God?
Start walking, run, don't turn back.
Jesus is holding His hand out, smile and say, I am free.
Go, sister, friend, positive energy, laughing, smiling,
Beautiful face, tall and erect stature.
Welcome back, there goes my friend.
Welcome back....
Adrienne Clark Strachn
For my special girlfriend
We talk of taxes, and I call you friend;
Well, such you are,—but well enough we know
How thick about us root, how rankly grow
Those subtle weeds no man has need to tend,
That flourish through neglect, and soon must send
Perfume too sweet upon us and overthrow
Our steady senses; how such matters go
We are aware, and how such matters end.
Yet shall be told no meagre passion here;
With lovers such as we forevermore
Isolde drinks the draught, and Guinevere
Receives the Table's ruin through her door,
Francesca, with the loud surf at her ear,
Lets fall the colored book upon the floor.
Your words, my friend, (right healthful caustics) blame
My young mind marr'd, whom Love doth windlass so,
That mine own writings like bad servants show
My wits, quick in vain thoughts, in virtue lame;
That Plato I read for nought, but if he tame
Such doltish gyres; that to my birth I owe
Nobler desires, lest else that friendly foe,
Great Expectation, were a train of shame.
For since mad March great promise made of me,
If now the May of my years much decline,
What can be hoped my harvest time will be?
Sure you say well, "Your wisdom's golden mine,
Dig deep with learning's spade." Now tell me this,
Hath this world aught so fair as Stella is?
AH! think no more that Life's delusive joys,
Can charm my thoughts from FRIENDSHIP'S dearer claim;
Or wound a heart, that scarce a wish employs,
For age to censure, or discretion blame.
Tir'd of the world, my weary mind recoils
From splendid scenes, and transitory joys;
From fell Ambition's false and fruitless toils,
From hope that flatters, and from bliss that cloys.
With THEE, above the taunts of empty pride,
The rigid frowns to youthful error given;
Content in solitude my griefs I'll hide,
Thy voice my counsellor­thy smiles my Heaven.
With thee I'll hail the morn's returning ray,
Or climb the dewy mountain bleak and cold;
On the smooth lake observe the sun-beams play,
Or mark the infant flow'rs their buds unfold.
Pleas'd will I watch the glitt'ring queen of Night
Spread her white mantle o'er the face of Heaven;
And from thy converse snatch the pure delight,
By truth sublime to MENTAL feeling given.
And as the varying seasons glide away,
This moral lesson shall my bosom learn,
How TIME steals on, while blissful hours decay
Like fleeting shadows;­NEVER to return.
And when I see thy warm unspotted mind,
Torn with the wound of broken FRIENDSHIP'S dart;
When sickness chills thy breast with pangs unkind,
Or ruthless sorrow preys upon thy heart;
The task be MINE to soothe thee to repose,
To check the sigh, and wipe the trickling tear,
Or with soft SYMPATHY to share thy woes;
O, proudest rapture of the soul sincere !
And ye who flutter thro' the vacant hour,
Where tasteless Apathy's empoison'd wand
Arrests the vagrant sense with numbing pow'r,
While vanquish'd REASON bows at her command.
O say, what bliss can transient Life bestow,
What balm so grateful to the social mind,
As FRIENDSHIP'S voice­where gentle precepts flow
From the blest source of sentiment refin'd?
When FATE'S stern hand shall close my weeping eye,
And seal, at length, my wand'ring spirit's doom;
Oh! may kind FRIENDSHIP catch my parting sigh,
And cheer with HOPE the terrors of the TOMB.
Blue mountains to the north of the walls,
White river winding about them;
Here we must make separation
And go out through a thousand miles of dead grass.
Mind like a floating wide cloud,
Sunset like the parting of old acquaintances
Who bow over their clasped hands at a distance.
Our horses neigh to each others
as we are departing.
Blue mountains lie beyond the north wall;
Round the city's eastern side flows the white water.
Here we part, friend, once forever.
You go ten thousand miles, drifting away
Like an unrooted water-grass.
Oh, the floating clouds and the thoughts of a wanderer!
Oh, the sunset and the longing of an old friend!
We ride away from each other, waving our hands,
While our horses neigh softly, softly . . . .
Now shall I walk
Or shall I ride?
"Ride", Pleasure said;
"Walk", Joy replied.
Now what shall I --
Stay home or roam?
"Roam", Pleasure said;
And Joy -- "stay home."
Now shall I dance,
Or sit for dreams?
"Sit," answers Joy;
"Dance," Pleasure screams.
Which of ye two
Will kindest be?
Pleasure laughed sweet,
But Joy kissed me.
The death of a friend
I try to be brave
But I can't stop the tears
When I visit His grave
Can He be replaced
I don't see how
He was my buddy
He was my pal
I am lonely at home
I am lonely at school
I miss my friend
He was so cool
I go to the park
I try to play ball
But is's not the same
Not at all
My minds a mess
My minds a haze
Lonely nights
And lonely days
I want my friend
I want Him back
The death of a friend
He's not coming back.
We sat across the table.
he said, cut off your hands.
they are always poking at things.
they might touch me.
I said yes.
Food grew cold on the table.
he said, burn your body.
it is not clean and smells like sex.
it rubs my mind sore.
I said yes.
I love you, I said.
That's very nice, he said
I like to be loved,
that makes me happy.
Have you cut off your hands yet?
The people take the thing of course,
They marvel not to see
This strange, unnatural divorce
Betwixt delight and me.
I know the face of sorrow, and I know
Her voice with all its varied cadences;
Which way she turns and treads; how at her ease
Things fit her dreary largess to bestow.
Where sorrow long abides, some be that grow
To hold her dear, but I am not of these;
Joy is my friend, not sorrow; by strange seas,
In some far land we wandered, long ago.
O faith, long tried, that knows no faltering!
O vanished treasure of her hands and face!--
Beloved--to whose memory I cling,
Unmoved within my heart she holds her place.
And never shall I hail that other "friend,"
Who yet shall dog my footsteps to the end.
THOUGH you are in your shining days,
Voices among the crowd
And new friends busy with your praise,
Be not unkind or proud,
But think about old friends the most:
Time's bitter flood will rise,
Your beauty perish and be lost
For all eyes but these eyes.
In this evil year, autumn comes early...
I walk by night in the field, alone, the rain clatters,
The wind on my hat...And you? And you, my friend?
You are standing- maybe- and seeing the sickle moon
Move in a small arc over the forests
And bivouac fire, red in the black valley.
You are lying- maybe- in a straw field and sleeping
And dew falls cold on your forehead and battle jacket.
It's possible tonight you're on horseback,
The farthest outpost, peering along, with a gun in your fist,
Smiling, whispering, to your exhausted horse.
Maybe- I keep imagining- you are spending the night
As a guest in a strange castle with a park
And writing a letter by candlelight, and tapping
On the piano keys by the window,
Groping for a sound...
- And maybe
You are already silent, already dead, and the day
Will shine no longer into your beloved
Serious eyes, and your beloved brown hand hangs wilted,
And your white forehead split open- Oh, if only,
If only, just once, that last day, I had shown you, told you
Something of my love, that was too timid to speak!
But you know me, you know...and, smiling, you nod
Tonight in front of your strange castle,
And you nod to your horse in the drenched forest,
And you nod to your sleep to your harsh clutter of straw,
And think about me, and smile.
And maybe,
Maybe some day you will come back from the war,
and take a walk with me some evening,
And somebody will talk about Longwy, Luttich, Dammerkirch,
And smile gravely, and everything will be as before,
And no one will speak a word of his worry,
Of his worry and tenderness by night in the field,
Of his love. And with a single joke
You will frighten away the worry, the war, the uneasy nights,
The summer lightning of shy human friendship,
Into the cool past that will never come back.
Translated by James Wright
Submitted by Holt
You know there is not much
that I desire, a few chrysanthemums
half lying on the grass, yellow
and brown and white, the
talk of a few people, the trees,
an expanse of dried leaves perhaps
with ditches among them.
But there comes
between me and these things
a letter
or even a look--well placed,
you understand,
so that I am confused, twisted
four ways and--left flat,
unable to lift the food to
my own mouth:
Here is what they say: Come!
and come! and come! And if
I do not go I remain stale to
myself and if I go--
I have watched
the city from a distance at night
and wondered why I wrote no poem.
Come! yes,
the city is ablaze for you
and you stand and look at it.
And they are right. There is
no good in the world except out of
a woman and certain women alone
for certain. But what if
I arrive like a turtle,
with my house on my back or
a fish ogling from under water?
It will not do. I must be
steaming with love, colored
like a flamingo. For what?
To have legs and a silly head
and to smell, pah! like a flamingo
that soils its own feathers behind.
Must I go home filled
with a bad poem?
And they say:
Who can answer these things
till he has tried? Your eyes
are half closed, you are a child,
oh, a sweet one, ready to play
but I will make a man of you and
with love on his shoulder--!
And in the marshes
the crickets run
on the sunny dike's top and
make burrows there, the water
reflects the reeds and the reeds
move on their stalks and rattle drily.
Today, because I couldn't find the shortcut through,
I had to walk this town's entire inner
perimeter to find
where the medieval walls break open
in an eighteenth century
arch. The yellow valley flickered on and off
through cracks and the gaps
for guns. Bruna is teaching me
to cut a pattern.
Saturdays we buy the cloth.
She takes it in her hands
like a good idea, feeling
for texture, grain, the built-in
limits. It's only as an afterthought she asks
and do you think it's beautiful?
Her measuring tapes hang down, corn-blond and endless,
from her neck.
When I look at her
I think Rapunzel,
how one could climb that measuring,
that love. But I was saying,
I wandered all along the street that hugs the walls,
a needle floating
on its cloth. Once
I shut my eyes and felt my way
along the stone. Outside
is the cashcrop, sunflowers, as far as one can see. Listen,
the wind rattles in them,
a loose worship
seeking an object,
an interruption. Sara,
the walls are beautiful. They block the view.
And it feels rich to be
inside their grasp.
When Bruna finishes her dress
it is the shape of what has come
to rescue her. She puts it on.
So long you wandered on the dusky plain,
Where flit the shadows with their endless cry,
You reach the shore where all the world goes by,
You leave the strife, the slavery, the pain;
But we, but we, the mortals that remain
In vain stretch hands; for Charon sullenly
Drives us afar, we may not come anigh
Till that last mystic obolus we gain.
But you are happy in the quiet place,
And with the learned lovers of old days,
And with your love, you wander ever-more
In the dim woods, and drink forgetfulness
Of us your friends, a weary crowd that press
About the gate, or labour at the oar.
I ask but one thing of you, only one,
That always you will be my dream of you;
That never shall I wake to find untrue
All this I have believed and rested on,
Forever vanished, like a vision gone
Out into the night. Alas, how few
There are who strike in us a chord we knew
Existed, but so seldom heard its tone
We tremble at the half-forgotten sound.
The world is full of rude awakenings
And heaven-born castles shattered to the ground,
Yet still our human longing vainly clings
To a belief in beauty through all wrongs.
O stay your hand, and leave my heart its songs!
Who prop, thou ask'st in these bad days, my mind?--
He much, the old man, who, clearest-souled of men,
Saw The Wide Prospect, and the Asian Fen,
And Tmolus hill, and Smyrna bay, though blind.
Much he, whose friendship I not long since won,
That halting slave, who in Nicopolis
Taught Arrian, when Vespasian's brutal son
Cleared Rome of what most shamed him. But be his
My special thanks, whose even-balanced soul,
From first youth tested up to extreme old age,
Business could not make dull, nor passion wild;
Who saw life steadily, and saw it whole;
The mellow glory of the Attic stage,
Singer of sweet Colonus, and its child.
Well, Lizzie Anderson! seventeen men--and
the baby hard to find a father for!
What will the good Father in Heaven say
to the local judge if he do not solve this problem?
A little two-pointed smile and--pouff!--
the law is changed into a mouthful of phrases.
As late I rambled in the happy fields,
What time the skylark shakes the tremulous dew
From his lush clover covert;—when anew
Adventurous knights take up their dinted shields;
I saw the sweetest flower wild nature yields,
A fresh-blown musk-rose; 'twas the first that threw
Its sweets upon the summer: graceful it grew
As is the wand that Queen Titania wields.
And, as I feasted on its fragrancy,
I thought the garden-rose it far excelled;
But when, O Wells! thy roses came to me,
My sense with their deliciousness was spelled:
Soft voices had they, that with tender plea
Whispered of peace, and truth, and friendliness unquelled.
NOW all the truth is out,
Be secret and take defeat
From any brazen throat,
For how can you compete,
Being honour bred, with one
Who, were it proved he lies,
Were neither shamed in his own
Nor in his neighbours' eyes?
Bred to a harder thing
Than Triumph, turn away
And like a laughing string
Whereon mad fingers play
Amid a place of stone,
Be secret and exult,
Because of all things known
That is most difficult.
God knows it, I am with you. If to prize
Those virtues, priz'd and practis'd by too few,
But priz'd, but lov'd, but eminent in you,
Man's fundamental life: if to despise
The barren optimistic sophistries
Of comfortable moles, whom what they do
Teaches the limit of the just and true--
And for such doing have no need of eyes:
If sadness at teh long heart-wasting show
Wherein earth's great ones are disquieted:
If thoughts, not idle, while before me flow
The armies of the homeless and unfed:--
If these are yours, if this is what you are,
Then am I yours, and what you feel, I share.
I.
Chloe, behold! againe I bowe:
Againe possest, againe I woe;
From my heat hath taken fire
Damas, noble youth, and fries,
Gazing with one of mine eyes,
Damas, halfe of me expires:
Chloe, behold!  Our fate's the same.
Or make me cinders too, or quench his flame
II.
I'd not be King, unlesse there sate
Lesse lords that shar'd with me in state
Who, by their cheaper coronets, know,
What glories from my diadem flow:
Its use and rate values the gem:
Pearles in their shells have no esteem;
And, I being sun within thy sphere,
'Tis my chiefe beauty thinner lights shine there.
III.
The Us'rer heaps unto his store
By seeing others praise it more;
Who not for gaine or want doth covet,
But, 'cause another loves, doth love it:
Thus gluttons cloy'd afresh invite
Their gusts from some new appetite;
And after cloth remov'd, and meate,
Fall too againe by seeing others eate.
If music and sweet poetry agree,
As they must needs (the sister and the brother),
Then must the love be great 'twixt thee and me,
Because thou lov'st the one, and I the other.
Dowland to thee is dear, whose heavenly touch
Upon the lute doth ravish human sense;
Spenser to me, whose deep conceit is such
As, passing all conceit, needs no defence.
Thou lov'st to hear the sweet melodious sound
That Ph{oe}bus' lute (the queen of music), makes;
And I in deep delight am chiefly drown'd
Whenas himself to singing he betakes.
One god is god of both (as poets feign),
One knight loves both, and both in thee remai
For brave comportment, wit without offence,
Words fully flowing, yet of influence:
Thou art that man of men, the man alone,
Worthy the public admiration:
Who with thine own eyes read'st what we do write,
And giv'st our numbers euphony, and weight.
Tell'st when a verse springs high, how understood
To be, or not born of the Royal blood.
What state above, what symmetry below,
Lines have, or should have, thou the best canst show.
For which (my Charles) it is my pride to be,
Not so much known, as to be loved by thee.
Long may I live so, and my wreath of bays,
Be less another's laurel, than thy praise.
Sir,
Our times are much degenerate from those
Which your sweet muse with your fair fortune chose,
And as complexions alter with the climes,
Our wits have drawn the infection of our times.
That candid age no other way could tell
To be ingenious, but by speaking well.
Who best could praise had then the greatest praise,
'Twas more esteemed to give than bear the bays:
Modest ambition studied only then
To honour not herself but worthy men.
These virtues now are banished out of town,
Our Civil Wars have lost the civic crown.
He highest builds, who with most art destroys,
And against others' fame his own employs.
I see the envious caterpillar sit
On the fair blossom of each growing wit.
The air's already tainted with the swarms
Of insects which against you rise in arms:
Word-peckers, paper-rats, book-scorpions,
Of wit corrupted, the unfashioned sons.
The barbèd censurers begin to look
Like the grim consistory on thy book;
And on each line cast a reforming eye,
Severer than the young presbytery.
Till when in vain they have thee all perused,
You shall, for being faultless, be accused.
Some reading your Lucasta will allege
You wronged in her the House's privelege.
Some that you under sequestration are,
And one the book prohibits, because Kent
Their first petition by the author sent.
But when the beauteous ladies came to know
That their dear Lovelace was endangered so:
Lovelace that thawed the most congealèd breast --
He who loved best and them defended best,
Whose hand so rudely grasps the steely brand,
Whose hand most gently melts the lady's hand --
They all in mutiny though yet undressed
Sallied, and would in his defence contest.
And one, the loveliest that was yet e'er seen,
Thinking that I too of the rout had been,
Mine eyes invaded with a female spite,
(She knew what pain 'twould cause to lose that sight.)
`O no, mistake not,' I replied, `for I
In your defence, or in his cause, would die.'
But he, secure of glory and of time,
Above their envy, or mine aid, doth climb.
Him valiant'st men and fairest nymphs approve;
His book in them finds judgement, with you love.
Since shed or cottage I have none,
I sing the more, that thou hast one;
To whose glad threshold, and free door
I may a Poet come, though poor;
And eat with thee a savoury bit,
Paying but common thanks for it.
--Yet should I chance, my Wicks, to see
An over-leaven look in thee,
To sour the bread, and turn the beer
To an exalted vinegar;
Or should'st thou prize me as a dish
Of thrice-boil'd worts, or third-day's fish,
I'd rather hungry go and come
Than to thy house be burdensome;
Yet, in my depth of grief, I'd be
One that should drop his beads for thee.
Sit further, and make room for thine own fame,
Where just desert enrolles thy honour'd Name
The good Interpreter. Some in this task
Take of the Cypress vail, but leave a mask,
Changing the Latine, but do more obscure
That sence in English which was bright and pure.
So of Translators they are Authors grown,
For ill Translators make the Book their own.
Others do strive with words and forced phrase
To add such lustre, and so many rayes,
That but to make the Vessel shining, they
Much of the precious Metal rub away.
He is Translations thief that addeth more,
As much as he that taketh from the Store
Of the first Author. Here he maketh blots
That mends; and added beauties are but spots.
Caelia whose English doth more richly flow
Then Tagus, purer then dissolved snow,
And sweet as are her lips that speak it, she
Now learns the tongues of France and Italy;
But she is Caelia still: no other grace
But her own smiles commend that lovely face;
Her native beauty's not Italianated,
Nor her chast mind into the French translated:
Her thoughts are English, though her sparkling wit
With other Language doth them fitly fit.
Translators learn of her: but stay I slide
Down into Error with the Vulgar tide;
Women must not teach here: the Doctor doth
Stint them to Cawdles Almond-milk, and Broth.
Now I reform, and surely so will all
Whose happy Eyes on thy Translation fall,
I see the people hastning to thy Book,
Liking themselves the worse the more they look,
And so disliking, that they nothing see
Now worth the liking, but thy Book and thee.
And (if I Judgement have) I censure right;
For something guides my hand that I must write.
You have Translations statutes best fulfil'd.
That handling neither sully nor would guild
Well then; the promis'd hour is come at last;
The present age of wit obscures the past:
Strong were our sires; and as they fought they writ,
Conqu'ring with force of arms, and dint of wit;
Theirs was the giant race, before the Flood;
And thus, when Charles return'd, our empire stood.
Like Janus he the stubborn soil manur'd,
With rules of husbandry the rankness cur'd:
Tam'd us to manners, when the stage was rude;
And boisterous English wit, with art endu'd.
Our age was cultivated thus at length;
But what we gained in skill we lost in strength.
Our builders were, with want of genius, curst;
The second temple was not like the first:
Till you, the best Vitruvius, come at length;
Our beauties equal; but excel our strength.
Firm Doric pillars found your solid base:
The fair Corinthian crowns the higher space;
Thus all below is strength, and all above is grace.
In easy dialogue is Fletcher's praise:
He mov'd the mind, but had not power to raise.
Great Jonson did by strength of judgment please:
Yet doubling Fletcher's force, he wants his ease.
In differing talents both adorn'd their age;
One for the study, t'other for the stage.
But both to Congreve justly shall submit,
One match'd in judgment, both o'er-match'd in wit.
In him all beauties of this age we see;
Etherege's courtship, Southern's purity;
The satire, wit, and strength of manly Wycherly.
All this in blooming youth you have achiev'd;
Nor are your foil'd contemporaries griev'd;
So much the sweetness of your manners move,
We cannot envy you because we love.
Fabius might joy in Scipio, when he saw
A beardless Consul made against the law,
And join his suffrage to the votes of Rome;
Though he with Hannibal was overcome.
Thus old Romano bow'd to Raphael's fame;
And scholar to the youth he taught, became.
Oh that your brows my laurel had sustain'd,
Well had I been depos'd, if you had reign'd!
The father had descended for the son;
For only you are lineal to the throne.
Thus when the State one Edward did depose;
A greater Edward in his room arose.
But now, not I, but poetry is curs'd;
For Tom the second reigns like Tom the first.
But let 'em not mistake my patron's part;
Nor call his charity their own desert.
Yet this I prophesy; thou shalt be seen,
(Tho' with some short parenthesis between
High on the throne of wit; and seated there,
Not mine (that's little) but thy laurel wear.
Thy first attempt an early promise made;
That early promise this has more than paid.
So bold, yet so judiciously you dare,
That your least praise, is to be regular.
Time, place, and action, may with pains be wrought,
But genius must be born; and never can be taught.
This is your portion; this your native store;
Heav'n that but once was prodigal before,
To Shakespeare gave as much; she could not give him more.
Maintain your post: that's all the fame you need;
For 'tis impossible you should proceed.
Already I am worn with cares and age;
And just abandoning th' ungrateful stage:
Unprofitably kept at Heav'n's expense,
I live a rent-charge on his providence:
But you, whom ev'ry muse and grace adorn,
Whom I foresee to better fortune born,
Be kind to my remains; and oh defend,
Against your judgment your departed friend!
Let not the insulting foe my fame pursue;
But shade those laurels which descend to you:
And take for tribute what these lines express:
You merit more; nor could my love do less.
The longest tyranny that ever sway'd
Was that wherein our ancestors betray'd
Their free-born reason to the Stagirite,
And made his torch their universal light.
So truth, while only one supplied the state,
Grew scarce, and dear, and yet sophisticate;
Until 't was bought, like emp'ric wares, or charms,
Hard words seal'd up with Aristotle's arms.
Columbus was the first that shook his throne,
And found a temp'rate in a torrid zone:
The fev'rish air fann'd by a cooling breeze,
The fruitful vales set round with shady trees;
And guiltless men, who danc'd away their time,
Fresh as their groves, and happy as their clime.
Had we still paid that homage to a name,
Which only God and Nature justly claim,
The western seas had been our utmost bound,
Where poets still might dream the sun was drown'd:
And all the stars that shine in southern skies
Had been admir'd by none but savage eyes.
Among th' asserters of free reason's claim,
Th' English are not the least in worth, or fame.
The world to Bacon does not only owe
Its present knowledge, but its future too.
Gilbert shall live, till loadstones cease to draw,
Or British fleets the boundless ocean awe.
And noble Boyle, not less in nature seen,
Than his great brother read in states and men.
The circling streams, once thought but pools, of blood
(Whether life's fuel or the body's food),
From dark oblivion Harvey's name shall save;
While Ent keeps all the honour that he gave.
...
A friend
What makes a friend?
A friend
Is someone that everyone needs
A friend
Is that special one
A friend
Is someone you tell EVERYTHING
A friend
Is someone you never lie to
A friend
Can be a boy or a girl
A friend
Is someone that is always their
A friend
Will always listen to you
A friend
Always has input to give
A friend
Will never leave you in the dust
A friend
Will help you through the thick and the thin
A friend
Will always stand by your side
A friend
Will never let you down
A friend
Is someone everyone needs
What would you do if you didnt have a friend?
SIMPLE VS. REAL
Let me identify...
Simple friends have never seen you cry. Real friends are on standby.
A Best friend make you feel better whenever you talk.
Simple friends hate when you call after a certain time, waking them up is such a crime.  Real friends don't care if it's during dinner or bed time.
A Best friend calls for no reason at all.
Simple friends talk with you about your problems.  Real friends are there until you solve them.
A Best friend mentions you in their daily prayers.
Simple friends speak of self-interest.  Real friends listen to your gab fest, never showing disinterest.
A Best friend never reveals your secrets.
Simple friends are 'ok' with your success.  Real friends are there through the process, making sure you don't digress.
A Best friend forces you to strive and achieve the best each day.
Let me classify...
You as my best friend, a God send.
Everybody needs friends, we all have friends
Some friends are closer to us than our families
If we happen to fall, there are friends to pick us up
What will our life be without friends?
There are many categories of friendship
There are casual friends, bad friends and good friends
The question here is – who is your best friend?
Friends who can turn your tears into laughter
Is your wife your best friend?
I mean the friend you go to
When you need honest advice
Is your husband your best friend?
I mean the friend who knows you
More than you know yourself
Is your brother or sister your best friend?
I mean the friend who always assists you
To solve difficult personal problems
Is your father or mother your best friend?
I mean the friend you feel safe to keep secrets
Are your in-laws your best friend?
I mean the friend you can tell anything
Is your boss or co-worker your best friend?
I mean the friend who can cover you up at work
Is your son or daughter your best friend?
I mean the friend you use as sounding board
For all your confidential and private thoughts
Is your former classmate your best friend?
I mean the friend who cheers you up on bad days
Whoever may be your best friend, remember that
A friend in need is always a friend indeed
Here is paper, pen, and inke,
That your heart and seale may sinke
Into such markes as may expresse
A Soule much blest in heavinesse.
May your paper seeme as fayre
As yourselfe when you appeare:
May the Letters which you write
Looke like black eye-lids on white.
May your penne such fancies bring
As one new puld from Cupid's wing:
That your paper, hand, and seale
His favour, heart, and Soule may steale.
If I were to live my life
in catfish forms
in scaffolds of skin and whiskers
at the bottom of a pond
and you were to come by
one evening
when the moon was shining
down into my dark home
and stand there at the edge
of my affection
and think, "It's beautiful
here by this pond.I wish
somebody loved me,"
I'd love you and be your catfish
friend and drive such lonely
thoughts from your mind
and suddenly you would be
at peace,
and ask yourself, "I wonder
if there are any catfish
in this pond?It seems like
a perfect place for them."
Acquaintances are many but friends are very rare
For with a true and trusting friend your secrets you can share
Your friend will comfort you and advise you and you will not betray
Your friend will never disown you and as your friend will stay
When others do not wish to know you your friend as your friend remain
And feel lucky in your lifetime if one loyal friend you gain
Your friend will always stand by you no matter come what may
And when you ask your friend for help your friend will not turn you away
No your friend will stand by you when you are feeling down
When others shun you as if you were an outcast of the town
Acquaintances like Nature's Seasons they come to your life and go
But your friend a friend for lifetime and the bond of friendship grow
And the one who betrays your trust could never be your friend
Your friend to you is ever true and one on whom you can depend.
You smile upon your friend to-day,
To-day his ills are over;
You hearken to the lover's say,
And happy is the lover.
'Tis late to hearken, late to smile,
But better late than never;
I shall have lived a little while
Before I die for ever.
The great, green gob
was opened wide
and a wriggling worm
was fed inside.
The boy said, 'Mum,
the frog he comes
and sees me every day,
but a grass snake lurks
and slyly works
his slithers by the way'.
Then the snake, like lightning,
makes a strike.
The boy he quickly starts
and jaws around
the great, green gob
are gently eased apart.
Now frog and snake
their freedom take
from the boy
with a pounding heart.
However much learned we are,
However big our possessions are,
However large the kingdom we rule,
However wide our popularity is,
However deep our knowledge is,
However widespread our domain is,
We need to accept that
We are no better than a frog
In a well
Some are in a big well
Some are in a small well
A well, regardless of its size
Will never become an ocean
Ocean is the ultimate truth
Well is the ground reality
A frog in the well cannot
Fathom over an ocean
But, we, with our sixth sense
Can comprehend what ocean can be
And need to be on a continous effort
To understand the ocean
And reach there,
The ultimate reality
A frog, beautiful greenish mixed color
While in search of its food trapped in a pipe
A drainage pipe for easy flow of rain
There he imagined well grown insects
A safe hideout to catch the prey
And eat well and himself to become fat
Then going to his habitat to tell the story
The achievement, nourishing food and all
And to marry a beautiful bride
To live with it in happy days ahead
His ambitions were big and attempts accurate
Enough to eat he got from the drain pipe
There he became lazy and got asleep
Often sang the songs in loud without mistake
Showed his vigor to attract the female
Then came the ill luck in the form of owner
The house owner perturbed on blockage of pipe
The rain water stagnated in the compound
Unable to know the reason and took a stick
Slowly he tried to pierce it through the drain
With pain and fear the frog tried to escape
But alas another side there waits a snake
The song of the frog attracted it, to swallow
The unusual predicament on his trapped stand
However it escaped after a while in care
The mystery is all is not well always careful.
A tiny frog on a lili-pad,
Was so depressed she felt so sad.
She wrung her hands and racked her brain,
And said to herself, I'm going insane.
I'm in love with the toad that lives next door,
When my dad finds out he'll go through the floor.
And I can't imagine what mom will do.
My black and green will be black and blue.
While she pondered on, the snake swam by,
And the little frog uttered a sigh.
She asked hey snake what would you do,
If you were in love with a toad like lou?
The snake replied, I'll tell you what,
You really put me on the spot.
A frog I could love, a toad too fat,
I'd rather be seen with a rat.
But you little frog with your leopard spots,
I think that you could dot my dots.
Come over here and say to me,
That you'll be mine for eternity.
The little frog opened her eyes,
And saw in the snake no truth just lies.
She jumped in the water and swam away,
And found her lou and said o.k.
It's not so bad to be black and blue,
And have your daddy be mad at you.
It's better to be with an ugly toad,
Than inside a snake and growing cold.
4/20/10 29 palms ca.
froggy went courting
on a sultry summer day
the flowers wilted
There stands upon a leaf,
A tiny frog,
With yellow skin,
And large round eyes,
In search of insects-food!
The little frog can camouflage,
And appear dead,
Or look like flowers,
To escape foes,
And predators that strike.
Like energized spring-box,
The frog can leap;
The frog can fly;
The frog won’t fall,
As they hold on
To weeds and stalks of plants.
Oh, what a queer Amphibian
Are frogs born free!
Some are big too;
Their tongues are long,
And so sticky;
They flick it out and catch their prey.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-12-2008
Of the complexities of Nature how can one explain
Who can tell of the workings of the amphibian's brain
Why he often does sing in the wind and the rain
His song more like a croak in the watery drain
A frog's just a frog as many do say
Those who dismiss Nature in their arrogant way
Our connection to Nature they do seem to miss
But I envy them their ignorance since ignorance is bliss
About Nature as me as much they do know
I have lived many Seasons but with little to show
In knowledge of Nature others I lag behind
But an expert on Nature perhaps one could not find
A frog's just a frog you will hear many say
But frogs are so complex in their secretive way.
A frog walked into a bank for a loan
She was making some improvements at home
She was sent to Miss Patty Stack
The loan officer who sat in back
When Patty saw her collateral, she groaned
Is this the only collateral you own?
Let me get the bank manager on the phone
Sir, I've a frog out here, wants a loan
Um, for collateral she has a small gnome?
Why, that's a nic nac Patty Stack, give that frog a loan!
Elisabeth Wingle
April 26 2016
A huge frog and I,
staring at each other,
neither of us moves.
Translated by Robert Hass
A little Frog could well be
A beating Frog in camouflage
A jumping Frog cold, scary
A poisoning Frog breathing through the skin
An Underwater Frog flooding…
A Drowned heart in love with...
The little Frog.
I walked in to the marshes sad
And spotted him there on the lilly pad
He sat there, so very tiny
With slippery feet that were way too slimy
I'd slipped into a place I wasn't fond
And occupied myself with this little pond
I pulled up my long, tattered sleeves
And engaged with this fellow looking at me
Then I decided, I'd kiss him on the head
And he'd turn into a handsome prince instead!
I took his wet body, put his head to my lips
And kissed him there, what a trip!
Frightened, he started to ribbit up a storm
As I waited for him to transform
And then I concluded, alone in that bog
I had been fooled into kissing a...frog! ?
An old frog
Once I was a human,
Now i am a frog sitting on the edge of a pond,
gazing simply with eyes with eyeless muse,
ripple one after another,
One is falling to the chest of naught and
another is rising to fall,
One is dying and another moving to die
taking the source from the dying spark.
Wave from theunknown point,
from shoreless Deepness surging to die
to roundish stillness.
The old pond with new and eternally new surge,
The beginning and the end and the flow of restless tide only falsify the search,
An Old pond and a frog sitting careless for nothing to earn.
Wave one on another is rising to fall and falling​ to rise.
I like both
Balloon and frog.
My inspiration,
My life's hymn,
Jump jump high high.
You reminded me
of the first ever FROG
I dissected
gave it enough chloroform
and put it to sleep
then saweach and every part within
once I sealed it up
I cried out to miss
ma'am it is not awaking
then she told me
now it never will
I felt devastated
and
at time I came to know
NOGod does exist
We are ourselves destroyers
only
what God can life now give
none could answer me
Can any spiritualist ye
but don't relay theory
we have already heard it
The Corroboree frog I be,
A hopping the land down under.
Black with yellow splotches on me.
As hubby, I am a wonder.
I know that I need build a nest,
Using my hind limbs to sculpt moss,
Make proposals that I sing best.
Ladies to my threshold do cross,
All laying eggs I fertilize.
The gals take off but I do stay,
And wait for the waters to rise,
Till hatching tadpoles come my way.
Ah, the memories that I've had
Living as a stay at home dad.
I've eaten frogs before,
And I must say it's true:
They taste a lot like chicken.
They really, really do.
But there are frogs you must not eat,
Or they'll be your last meal.
If it's bright red you'll wind up dead
With no chance for appeal.
Dry out frog, so dead so flat
been run-over more than trice
no more flesh, no more stench
just a flattened crispy shape
I picked you up and took you home
saw the beauty in your bones
put you on a pedestal
sprayed you with a golden glow
Many wonder, many claimed that
I made you out of lead
others think I work in steel
but my secret won't reveal
How dare you
approach me,
Dear frog!
Me, the anatomist cruel
know no love,
no compassion.
Dear cold blooded creature
the tender heart,
the feeble mind and
sluggish feet
need warmth
need amplexus
dare not approach me
my territory
the frigid trap of death,
Me, the anatomist there
to anesthetize you
for reason not known
none to blame, none
to excuse.
Me, the anatomist paid for
to feed my gaster
and quench my thirst
How dare you approach me!
With forceps in one hand
and scissors in other
unable to feel
the spikes in your nerve
Me, the anatomist
know not me
know not you
with the sharp scalpel
waiting to split open
the skull.
How dare you
approach me!
Me, the anatomist, cruel
Know no love, no compassion.
The finch trills in the apple tree
His: Tiriliree!
A frog climbs slowly up to him,
Up to the treetop's leafy rim
And puffs right up and croaks: "Hallooo,
Ol' chum: see, I c'n do it too!"
And as the bird his song of spring
So sweetly to the world doth sing,
The frog chimes in with sassy tones
And interjects his bassy drones.
The finch exclaims: "O Joy, hurray!
I'll fly away!"
And springs into the azure sky.
"Hah!" cries the frog, "Well so kin I!"
He makes a most ungainly bound
And splats onto the bare hard ground.
He's pancake flat, and that's no joke:
He's croaked his very final croak.
If someone climbs laboriously
Into the branches of a tree
And thinks himself a bird to be:
Wrong is he.
Frog swimming
To try for fly...
Fish was asking frog
'Why you did want to fly...? '
Frog say
'I am was born on tommrow
A bird...so...
I was try to fly...'
Fish was hahaaaaa
Loug lot...
'Frog take care
Try too fly...'
Freddy was once a toad
He hopped too often in the road
Along came a car
Sent Freddy flying far
Now Freddy's not a toad, but a star!
F-reely living liking animal eats harmful insects in farmers' land
R-uns, jumps, swims in the water of lake, canal, pond;
O-bnoxious humans are but great threat to it
G-aining black money they are trafficking it.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza| 24 November,2017
Summer grows old, cold-blooded mother.
The insects are scant, skinny.
In these palustral homes we only
Croak and wither.
Mornings dissipate in somnolence.
The sun brightens tardily
Among the pithless reeds. Flies fail us.
he fen sickens.
Frost drops even the spider. Clearly
The genius of plenitude
Houses himself elsewhwere. Our folk thin
Lamentably.
And then a frog sang before the bog in that late afternoon.
All of a sudden,  its first loud song struck my ear, deaf for nature
that day in particular.
Even if the rhythm was dreary, I could felt something unusual
surging from that kind of surreptitious soul of mine...
Frog-dance,
Let me see
the frog-dance
and get pleasure.
Let me see
where the dancer is.
And how it is
being performed
before all.
The style of
frog-dance I
like most, my dear.
But I failed to locate
the frog and also the dancer.
All I want to be
is a little green frog
Hoping in a pool
hunting mosquitoes and flies
lying on water lilies
croaking all night long
Yesindeed
I'd love to be a frog
or evenjust a toad!
Πόσο θα 'θελα να είμαι
ένας βάτραχος πράσινος, μικρός
Στη λίμνη να πηδώ
κώνωπες και μύγες να κυνηγώ
σε νούφαραν' αράζω
όλη τη νύχτα να κοάζω
Πραγματικά
πώς θα ΄θελα βάτραχος να είμαι
ή έστω φρύνος, ας είναι!
When we croak,
were dead,
on the other hand,
when a frog croaks
he speaks to
nature and is
so cheerful,
When we croak
were silent, and so
still, not cheerful
at all.
Frogs are always
croaking and so
happy,
People are always
croaking and so
sad.
For once it would
be nice to be
a frog for a day.
wrote 4-9-07
moonlit pond...
a frog penetrates
itself
One of selected haiku
Simply Haiku's 'TOP TEN LIST' of the World's Finest Living English language Haiku Poets for the Year 2011 (Simply Haiku,9: 3,4, Autumn/Winter 2011)
http: //simplyhaiku.theartofhaiku.com/autumnwinter-2011 /simply-haiku.html
There once was a handsome green frog
who  resided  inside an old log.
He had cut two small vents
in the log for defense
but the stork  used, as cover, the fog.
And he swallowed the frog in the buff
though just one frog was never enough
for a frog in a log
who can't see in the fog
daily life can be utterly tough.
Can not imagine
The length and breadth
Of the gigantic ocean.
Frog-like brains of
The present-day scientist
Can not challenge Your
Inconceivable potency.
And if at all they try
They simply die without
getting any success and
Experience about You.
I know my dear, and it is
Your grace that You are
The ultimate truth and
I am aware of Your personality.
A multi-storey frog menage a trois
(Erotic reptilian sandwich)
Squats on the sand,
Locked in a Dionysian mystery.
Three sets of gold black eyes, slits lit in ecstasy.
Top of the heap,
A mounted male's throat-throb Is the only indication he's alive.
Three khaki heads, wrinkled's Methuselah
Their temples, parchment thin
As tearable as tissue,
Face the pond.
The female hugely sits
On her squashed blond belly
A clamped and clammy love cushion,
Sagging beneath the weight Of a double whammy.
Her piggy-back partner
Rifts a monstrous croak,
And off she hobbles, slow as a Rajah's elephant
Under a heavy houdah.
Her procreating cargo, perched precarious.
Life, and the hunger for life
With frogs, is emphatically gregarious
The fairy tale says,
that every time you kiss
a frog or is it a toad,
it turns into a prince or a princess,
depending on which story you have heard.
I thought that I would test the theory.
First on a frog, I tried,
but nothing happened there.
Then I grabbed the biggest toad,
gave it a great big kiss as you know.
All I ended up with was a big wart
on the end of my nose.
So if you are looking for a prince or princess,
do not kiss a frog or toad,
because you might end up like me,
with a big wart on the end of your nose.
Every frog must croak
That is no joke
Agile is the lowly frog
Eating insects, leaving bugs, mosquitoes agog
They live in water, slime, gook
Ugly, ugly face of a spook
Green, gray or brown, they populate the ground
Frog legs are sold and eaten by the pound
Jump, glide around, sit still
Croak often, loud and shrill
Water is the key to their life
They procreate, sleep, avoid danger, strife
Little or big they struggle to survive
Even a frog is happy to be alive
Some become road kill
Or a snake's belly they fill
They have lived, they have died
Some rot, some are fried
Dissected in the lab by a sharp knife
Warts and all, a vital link in the chain of life
France and China feed from your demise,
Restaurateurs are not exactly chums,
Oh how they rave about your tender thighs!
Gourmand orders - another frog succumbs…
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2010
< br>
< br>                                            frog
frog            frog
frog                           frog
frog                                          frog
frog                                                       frog
Frog                                                                   frog
frog pond...
I jump over
the spring sun
published in the Pond Life Thread of Sketchbook,7: 2, March/April 2012
Editor's Choice Haiku
http: //poetrywriting.org/Sketchbook7-2MarApr2012-41/0_ Results_Sketchbook_7-2_MarApr_pond_life_Haiku_Thr ead_Results.htm
look at the frog so small and cute
top to tail in his green suite
never dry not always wet
every child wants one for a pet
only the newt for a friend
swim in the pond from end to end
deep under water breath held tight
look at him swim such a delight
hear him call all through the night
a prince in waiting a king by right
leaping high jumping long
for his size he is so strong
from lilly pads he loves to hop
as he hits the water plip plip plop
see him catch the fly swallow swallow
with a blink of his eyes gobble gobble
look at the frog so small and cute
top to tail in his green suite
Sun of an obnoxious quarry as we seem
To be laughing—
Open throated frog princes all of the way
Up to the chandeliers—
While my mother waits in some awful
Mockery of a Pieta—
And the lamps bloom in the gold dusts of
The mines—
Another song mimics the song bird's,
As the traffic becomes utterly confused—
Losing itself into the darkness—
The mailman apexes, but he is no excuse
To me—
Lamp posts lining the streets of my adolescents,
As wicked men travel home after
The fireworks' pageantry—
Licking their stolen wives' bodies of
An adulterous
Apiary.
A small and green but drunken frog
sat in the evening on his log.
He contemplated there on life
and wished he had a green frog wife.
He'd interviewd a thousand frogs,
kept diaries and detailed logs.
But never did he find the one
who'd rest all day out in the sun
and dream with him at night in bed
so this green frog was never wed.
One day he saw, down near the trees
a British subject. What a tease!
She was a trifle big but, well,
we cannot all live in a shell.
She chatted with the folks and then
there was a silence among men.
They looked at her, so did the frog
he sat, quite drunken, on his log.
He dreamed that if he ever were...
this was the girl. If frogs could purr! ! !
Frogs are green
like chlorophyll
their eyes bulge out at you
they can be mean
and further still
can  fit inside a shoe.
They have a land
all to their own
it ain't a small one, no
so shake their hand
'cause they are prone
to see you as a foe.
They eat their legs
and also snails
and drink the Beaujolais
a frog who begs
is one who fails
be warned, that's all I say.
A stereotype
is something which
applies to definition
of all the hype
it's really Kitsch
and now I'm going fishing.
A frog
Is gifted with
A loud baritone
But it's noise prone!
A nightingale
Is gifted with a sweet tone
Which is a pleasant one!
Copyright@ Poet 26 November 2019
Away from old pond
leaps olympic longjump frog
squelching sounds beyond.
Frog resting on a
Lily pad in quiet pond—
Floating right along.
The frog- on the arm
Of the balance! How to weigh-
Please tell me the way.
Dated: 17th July 2019.
Moonlit night and
A moonlit pond, a frog riddled
with emotions
the frog and I
exchange glances
both motionless
three flies circling
the frog
two flies circling
Hopping frog, hop here and be seen,
I'll not pelt you with stick or stone:
Your cap is laced and your coat is green;
Good bye, we'll let each other alone.
Plodding toad, plod here and be looked at,
You the finger of scorn is crooked at:
But though you're lumpish, you're harmless too;
You won't hurt me, and I won't hurt you.
I fell in love with a frog,
who was sitting alone on the banks of the Nile,
mooning over the premature decease of his beautiful wife.
He was sobbing his heart out,
his lips convulsed with woe, dripping emotion,
his chin atremble, the words buried in a raven black but deafening silence.
I instantly knew he was the find of my ultimate search for love.
A bathos unknown to those seeking earthly pleasures,
a poignancy knocking vulgarity off its temporal pedestal.
My dear love, dearest of all other loves,
my love for this frog, please become a wreath
a halo, a redemptive power to soothe all pain
Frog,
I hate you.
You don't deserve to live
You have an ugly face
You're not the prince
Even you have your first kiss
Frog,
I really really hate you.
You're just a food for a hungry snake,
So, stay away from me before I give you a kick!
joining me
in a bath
bathroom frog
as i bathe
the frog experiences
a storm
(john tiong chunghoo)
inspired by
for me all alone
his sober face...
a frog
-Issa,1814
An island frog, the humans say
How does such a residence be?
Salt water eats frog skin away.
No frog opts to go by sea.
The frog does call the island home,
And has done so millions of years.
Surrounding seas - no need to roam.
And of the first frog pioneers?
How did they make the trip across
The salty ocean to the isle?
Inquiring minds are at a loss
About this frog's island lifestyle.
Only the humans seem to care.
The frog just knows the frog is there.
On his throne log
in kingdom bog
shrouded by fog
croaks the frog
Frog in well defined as knowledge confined,
Come out of it with knowledge refined,
May be areas used so compact and defined,
Inherent possession is must …………………
Knowledge or power to spread over horizon
Frequent debates, contacts taking place in zone
In depth study and answer with solid reasons,
Surely to find result as that of seasons,
When Sun rays emerge and shine in sky,
Darkness disappears and still no one ask why?
Spread of knowledge end misery and plight,
Go ahead and cruise with direction and flight,
We may remain aloof and total in disarray,
Supremacy to gain with permanent sway,
Never yield to blackmail and not to give away,
Should make it with easy access and way?
Can Sun be blanketed or hidden with shade?
Will swords be useless in front of spade?
Knowledge is like power so will emerge and surface,
May be more accurate as heat from furnace,
Deep buried inside with innumerable secrets,
Inside vision may understand and interpret,
Efforts may be needed to understand it more,
Secrets may be unveiled and result come to fore,
Nature never confines or secrets hide,
You may need vision with angle wide,
Always do part with but not with any side,
Water waves move on with calm or tide,
Why mountain volcano erupts and cause land to slide?
Suggest more open ways to think and decide,
Power is force which can't be retained,
Prisoner to be released if wrongly detained,
Knowledge is power and has to be realized,
Widespread of area has to be materialized,
To die with the secrets does not serve purpose,
Even kings abdicate when fear sudden depose
I am called a leaf frog - guess why!
Yep - cuz I blend in like a leaf,
Waiting for a snack to come by,
To my delight, to the snack's grief.
An insect is such snack I seek,
And when it does roam close enough,
I give it my flicked tongue technique,
Stick on the snack and down I stuff
It to my tummy to digest.
I cannot chew, so blink my eyes
So that my eyeballs are so pressed
To help push down my insect prize.
So why so happy do I be?
Becuz I do eat what bugs me.
Goodness gracious could it be true
Prince Charming, is it really you
She leaps up, over frogs forever
Into the arms of happily ever after
Man prides himself with intelligence
Human Logic rationalizing,
But what he really lacks is Patience
When the moment requires some waiting.
Today a frog in blithe expertise,
Had some short lessons laid in action.
He showed that trying should never cease,
For Success comes with Repetition.
He jumped on a green stalk, missing twice.
Then returned to make good his attempt.
Jumped once more, no defeat in his eyes -
He missed, but held the end of the hemp.
He climbed one leg up, still holding on,
His frog face tinged the trace of a smile,
His other arm grasped at victory won -
Sat on top of the leaf in a while!
When speaking
this orator sounds
like a frog
This frog was partying and left rather late
In the darkness his home he could not locate
Spotted a bat flying in the air
His dilemma he made aware
My pleasure I’ll fly you home to your mate
This snake was eyeing a frog for his lunch
They struck at each other with a crunch
It was a stand off
A solution was far off
For both of them was unable to munch
Evening shower pours down heavily
Rain water falls like a torrent, overflowing everywhere.
The automatic night light just turned on outside my house.
I stand inside the house, watching the western sky.
Two cats lean on their stretched front legs.
Their noses touch the house screen door.
Their lungs are filled with inhaled rain mists.
Suddenly, there arise loud croaks from a nearby Koi pond.
Stimulated by heavy rain, this frog longs for a companion.
He waited a long time without a croaking response.
So sad a night for this frog who will spend his night alone.
Rain shower falls, and falls without a pause.
Who knows the sadness of a frog longing for a mate at my Koi pond?
10152014
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Translation of
TIẾNG ẾCH ĐÊM MƯA - Poem by NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Tối nay trời đổ mưa rào.
Mưa như thác chảy, nước tràn khắp nơi.
Đèn đêm đã sáng lên rồi
Trong nhà tôi đứng, nhìn trời phía tây.
Hai mèo ngồi chống hai chân
Mũi sờ cửa lưới, phổi đầy hơi mưa.
Hồ Koi, ếch bỗng kêu vang
Trời đêm mưa lớn, ếch cần bạn thân.
Chờ lâu, chẳng tiếng hồi âm
Đêm nay buồn lắm, ếch này nằm không.
Mưa rơi tầm tã, mưa rơi.
Nỗi buồn ai hiểu, hồ Koi, ếch chờ...
10152014
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
A tiny Costa Rica frog
was caught in heavy rains
He hops around to get away
Pitter patter water pains
He chanced upon a tender leaf
that stood on single stalk
enough to shade the little frog.
he waits for water stop
And when it did the little frog
Jumps off the saviour stalk
he croaks aloud and naturally
escapes in grateful hop
Mary had a little frog
And it was water-soaked,
But Mary did not keep it long
Because, of course, it croaked!
He was meditating on a lotus,
Eyes half closed breathing slowly.
Dawn was falling through a sieve,
as silver grainy mist from heaven.
Moon takes a last dip in the pond,
wading through the dark waters.
He walks away to eastern horizon,
wearing his wet cloths still dripping.
Eyes closed water lilies looks aloof.
Pre-dawn mysteries yet to arrive,
flakes of moon light still afloat,
as Beauty of daybreak had to unfold soon.
Slowly sun signalled the curtain raiser.
Golden brooms swept darkness away.
Symphony of life started performing.
Opera house reverberated with music of life.
He woke up suddenly from his trance.
His throat moved in folds of waves.
Lotuses started to open eyes one by one.
There he leaped, splashed his tongue, came out,
With a dragon fly struggling in his mouth.
Again went into depth of silent contemplation!
Tongue tied! Camouflaged!
++++++++++++++++
If a common noun is made adjective
And noun is faithful and very active
Faithful friend since time immemorial,
Loved by us yet his loyalty is a slang
If a common noun is made adjective
Who is furious formidable n reactive,
If we give the tag name, we are happy,
Not faithful, not loyal, blood rocky
We love the cruelty and this is fact,
What we want and what's the act,
"Dog of God and not God of Dog"
Our thought is wrapped with fog
Ah! We are the holy born, the rogue,
On faith's well a noisy -noisy  frog
I am
A piece of paper, creased with folds;
The jumping brother of all the tadpoles.
Move me around or croak a song
I'll be sure to sing along!
Even though I don't have a voice,
But you're a child, so imagine the noise.
But not the poison, the green's just ink!
My limbs just proof I did not sink!
Unlike my brothers, oh so many of them
Bound to the scavenger earth with their black stem.
They couldn't manage to change from being change;
Metal's a terrible material to make tadpoles, anyway.
Phileas the frog was awfully large -
To see the muscle in his thighs -
A sight bedazzling to your eyes!
With plenty there to feed a town -
If you would dare to take him down!
Phileas the frog could tow a barge.
One hefty bound could clear a tree -
A scary sight I'll guarantee!
And something else to make me dread:
Were he to land upon my head!
Phileas the frog was known as 'Sarge -'
Accounted by that massive chest.
No other frog would care to jest
That tidy Phileas!
So if you've sense and know your place -
And hold some value to your face,
Then don't get supercilious
With Phileas!
Copyright © Mark Raymond Slaughter 2009
All rights reserved.
< br>
Frog frog frog frog frog frog frog frog
Frog frog frog frog frog frog frog frog
Frog frog frog frog frog frog frog frog
The frog proclaims unabashedly
Within hearing of everyone
He brags that he has paid his dues
And did it even before the last hour,
Paid much more than what was worth
Every bit of what was owed and more
So, he held his head up high
Nothing else matters now
The day is a mockery for him,
Beneath an imagined sun,
Basking in delight in a shrouded glow
Owning the dark of night,
The cold of the puddle,
An empty inheritance in creased parchment,
He now croaks his incessant boast
In a pond where day refuses to come
When the rain pattered
The frog started croaking
The monkey on the tree warned
'Danger is in ambush'
She wouldn't listen too
'I know, my father
Keeps saying this'
She said
The monkey didn't ask
'Is your father too a monkey? '
The frog got finished
In one hiss
So was she finished
In one miss
The croaking toad and the leopard frog,
Were drinking beer on a hollow log.
And the croaking toad said, you're my best bud,
Man you can really hold your suds.
And the leopard frog replied in kind,
Another friend like you, I couldn't find.
You're my best friend when skies are grey,
You're by my side come what may.
I'd rather drink my beer with you,
Than catch blue bottles the whole day through.
Let's drink one more to the breaking dawn,
While we listen quietly to the crickets song.
But the croaking toad said I must go,
I'm very sleepy and the cock just crowed.
I'll see you tonight for a cold one or two,
I really love this black swamp brew.
And the leopard frog said I'll be here,
With my styrofoam ice chest sitting near.
Just bring some peanuts when you come round,
With beer they taste so good going down.
6/8/11 Alton Texas
The Dog, the Frog, and the Hog
All met while jogging in fog.
‘Twas quite coincidental,
Simply accidental:
That serendipitous meet
In pea soup, trainers on feet.
Still, now they are friends
And all rather fit;
Those comrades in shorts
And wonderfully knit!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2012
She let her golden ball fall down the well
And begged a cold frog to retrieve it;
For which she kissed his ugly, gaping mouth -
Indeed, he could scarce believe it.
And seeing him transformed to his princely shape,
Who had been by hags enchanted,
She knew she could never love another man
Nor by any fate be daunted.
But what would her royal father and mother say?
They had promised her in marriage
To a cousin whose wide kingdom marched with theirs,
Who rode in a jeweled carriage.
'Our plight, dear heart, would appear past human hope
To all except you and me: to all
Who have never swum as a frog in a dark well
Or have lost a golden ball.'
'What then shall we do now?' she asked her lover.
He kissed her again, and said:
'Is magic of love less powerful at your Court
Than at this green well-head?'
Once upon a time a frog
Croaked away in Bingle Bog
Every night from dusk to dawn
He croaked awn and awn and awn
Other creatures loathed his voice,
But, alas, they had no choice,
And the crass cacophony
Blared out from the sumac tree
At whose foot the frog each night
Minstrelled on till morning night
Neither stones nor prayers nor sticks.
Insults or complaints or bricks
Stilled the frogs determination
To display his heart's elation.
But one night a nightingale
In the moonlight cold and pale
Perched upon the sumac tree
Casting forth her melody
Dumbstruck sat the gaping frog
And the whole admiring bog
Stared towards the sumac, rapt,
And, when she had ended, clapped,
Ducks had swum and herons waded
To her as she serenaded
And a solitary loon
Wept, beneath the summer moon.
Toads and teals and tiddlers, captured
By her voice, cheered on, enraptured:
"Bravo! " "Too divine! " "Encore! "
So the nightingale once more,
Quite unused to such applause,
Sang till dawn without a pause.
Next night when the Nightingale
Shook her head and twitched her tail,
Closed an eye and fluffed a wing
And had cleared her throat to sing
She was startled by a croak.
"Sorry - was that you who spoke? "
She enquired when the frog
Hopped towards her from the bog.
"Yes," the frog replied. "You see,
I'm the frog who owns this tree
In this bog I've long been known
For my splendid baritone
And, of course, I wield my pen
For Bog Trumpet now and then"
"Did you… did you like my song? "
"Not too bad - but far too long.
The technique was fine of course,
But it lacked a certain force".
"Oh! " the nightingale confessed.
Greatly flattered and impressed
That a critic of such note
Had discussed her art and throat:
"I don't think the song's divine.
But - oh, well - at least it's mine".
"That's not much to boast about".
Said the heartless frog. "Without
Proper training such as I
- And few others can supply.
You'll remain a mere beginner.
But with me you'll be a winner"
"Dearest frog", the nightingale
Breathed: "This is a fairy tale -
And you are Mozart in disguise
Come to earth before my eyes".
"Well I charge a modest fee."
"Oh! " "But it won't hurt, you'll see"
Now the nightingale inspired,
Flushed with confidence, and fired
With both art and adoration,
Sang - and was a huge sensation.
Animals for miles around
Flocked towards the magic sound,
And the frog with great precision
Counted heads and charged admission.
Though next morning it was raining,
He began her vocal training.
"But I can't sing in this weather"
"Come my dear - we'll sing together.
Just put on your scarf and sash,
Koo-oh-ah! ko-ash! ko-ash! "
So the frog and nightingale
Journeyed up and down the scale
For six hours, till she was shivering
and her voice was hoarse and quivering.
Though subdued and sleep deprived,
In the night her throat revived,
And the sumac tree was bowed,
With a breathless, titled crowd:
Owl of Sandwich, Duck of Kent,
Mallard and Milady Trent,
Martin Cardinal Mephisto,
And the Coot of Monte Cristo,
Ladies with tiaras glittering
In the interval sat twittering -
And the frog observed them glitter
With a joy both sweet and bitter.
Every day the frog who'd sold her
Songs for silver tried to scold her:
"You must practice even longer
Till your voice, like mine grows stronger.
In the second song last night
You got nervous in mid-flight.
And, my dear, lay on more trills:
Audiences enjoy such frills.
You must make your public happier:
Give them something sharper snappier.
We must aim for better billings.
You still owe me sixty shillings."
Day by day the nightingale
Grew more sorrowful and pale.
Night on night her tired song
Zipped and trilled and bounced along,
Till the birds and beasts grew tired
At a voice so uninspired
And the ticket office gross
Crashed, and she grew more morose -
For her ears were now addicted
To applause quite unrestricted,
And to sing into the night
All alone gave no delight.
Now the frog puffed up with rage.
"Brainless bird - you're on the stage -
Use your wits and follow fashion.
Puff your lungs out with your passion."
Trembling, terrified to fail,
Blind with tears, the nightingale
Heard him out in silence, tried,
Puffed up, burst a vein, and died.
Said the frog: "I tried to teach her,
But she was a stupid creature -
Far too nervous, far too tense.
Far too prone to influence.
Well, poor bird - she should have known
That your song must be your own.
That's why I sing with panache:
"Koo-oh-ah! ko-ash! ko-ash! "
And the foghorn of the frog
Blared unrivalled through the bog.
You've probably heard the story of the scorpion who asked the frog
to help him cross the river by giving him a lift on the frog's back.
The frog refused but finally gave in after the scorpion promised he would not sting the frog, but he ultimately did.
I am a different frog, who trusted a clever scorpion, who wore a lab's mask. In my case the scorpion's sting did not kill me, it only wounded me, causing me to run away to safety.
And now the scorpion is back again, trying to gain my trust,
but his crocodile tears no longer face me.
I realize he can't help his heart, his rotten nature.
This little frog has learned, not everyone that cries is nice,
not every sweet word is true, not everyone has my best interest
at heart, and that will save my life.
A frog and a tarantula is an unusual pair,
In a hole up a tree they're happy to share.
The dotted humming frog has poisonous skin,
So he's safe from succumbing to his hairy kin.
He protects the spider's clutch of eggs,
From ants attracted to her insect dregs.
There's mutual benefit from this clever deal,
For ants are this frog's favorite meal.
The spider scares the snakes away,
To look elsewhere for their prey.
It's a wonder how this sister and brother,
Have learnt to help one another.
If you want to see these splendid two,
Take a trip to the jungle in South East Peru.
Come, said the frog to the toad,
let us hop down to the pond,
at the end of the road.
Jump on to a giant lily leaf,
and watch the fish,
as they swim underneath.
Dine on the succulent dragon flies,
see the  the world,
as it drifts by.
Then at the end of the day,
we can gaze at the stars,
watch the moon,
as it passes mars.
Come said the frog to the toad.
Tango
'Welcome to this well,
My friend, please tell
How big is your sea-well? '
Asked a frog in the well.
The sea isn't a well,
And has no circular wall
Why don't you go and see? '
Said the frog of the sea.
'No, if there's no wall
As tall as this well,
The sea water will
Seep out as well.'
'You'll go to the hell,
To me, if you again tell
That sea has no wall.'
Said the frog in the well.
Aren't there village folks
Even today, in their walks
Of life full of darkness
About the scientific progress?
Ask some of them why
An eclipse on the sky,
Of Solar or Lunar?
This'll be their answer.
'With its mouth wide open,
A serpent swallows the sun
Or the moon, causing eclipse.'
What an unbelievable nonsense?
'The end of the world is near.
Let people start their prayer
On the nearby mountain
As the catastrophe is certain.'
Some run up and down,
So saying to every one,
For this danger unseen
By the people, not keen.
The scientific knowledge
Should reach every village.
Then will there dwell
Any frog in the well?
Jacques the chef ordered it
The livestock removed bit by bit
My pond has been drained
Nothing now remains
He wanted frogs legs for his menu
No green creatures are now in situe
Most of my pals limbs have been eaten
But I've escaped - unbeaten
Give me time to recouperate
I might even find a new mate
I'll be back
Just don't tell Jacques!
There once was a frog,
Who sat on a log,
And didn't know what to do.
He looked around,
Sat on the ground,
Then saw the birds flying above.
The birds were high,
High in the sky,
And looked like they wouldn't come down.
The frog watched and stared,
Then got scared,
Then he ran off into to town.
What a wonderful bird the frog are!
When he stands he sit almost;
When he hop he fly almost.
He ain't got no sense hardly;
He ain't got no tail hardly either.
When he sit, he sits on what he ain't got almost.
Be kind and tender to the Frog,
And do not call him names,
As 'Slimy skin,' or 'Polly-wog,'
Or likewise 'Ugly James,'
Or 'Gap-a-grin,' or 'Toad-gone-wrong,'
Or 'Bill Bandy-knees':
The Frog is justly sensitive
To epithets like these.
No animal will more repay
A treatment kind and fair;
At least so lonely people say
Who keep a frog (and, by the way,
They are extremely rare).
I heard a strange noise, very loud
Between the high shinning grass
Which looked like a very tall crowd
In a green ceremonial mass
I searched for the noisy source
And to my surprise I found
A frog dancing with incredible force
On the hard, soiled ground
The emerald frog shook his left leg
Spun around and waved his arms
Hopped twice like he was about to beg
And croaked loud, causing many alarms
He shook his hip 'round and 'round
And sang out loud with all his might
Between the grass, on the ground
The frog danced, Oh what a sight!
Comes to mind as another small
upheaval
amongst the rubble.
His eye matches exactly the bubble
in my spirit-level.
I set aside hammer and chisel
and take him on the trowel.
The entire population of Ireland
springs from a pair left to stand
overnight in a pond
in the gardens of Trinity College,
two bottle of wine left there to chill
after the Act of Union.
There is, surely, in this story
a moral.  A moral for our times.
What if I put him to my head
and squeezed it out of him,
like the juice of freshly squeezed limes,
or a lemon sorbet?
Anonymous submission.
Leap frog,
Jump frog,
Everywhere you go frog,
Smile frog,
Croak frog,
Everywhere you go frog,
stomp, stomp, stomp
SQUASH! ! !
Bye, bye frog.
Week after week it shrank and shrank
as the fierce drought fiend drank and drank,
till on the bone-dry bed revealed
the mud peeled;
but now tonight is steamy-warm,
heavy with hint of thunderstorm.
And hark! hark! hoarse and harsh
the throaty croak of the frogs in the marsh:
"Wake! wake! awake! awake!
The drought break!"
but no, that chorus seems to me
more a primeval harmony.
The thunder booms, the floods flow
blended with deeper din below,
and every time the skies crash
the swamps flash!
and the whole place will be tonight
a pandemonium of delight.
Frau Doktor,
Mama Brundig,
take out your contacts,
remove your wig.
I write for you.
I entertain.
But frogs come out
of the sky like rain.
Frogs arrive
With an ugly fury.
You are my judge.
You are my jury.
My guilts are what
we catalogue.
I’ll take a knife
and chop up frog.
Frog has not nerves.
Frog is as old as a cockroach.
Frog is my father’s genitals.
Frog is a malformed doorknob.
Frog is a soft bag of green.
The moon will not have him.
The sun wants to shut off
like a light bulb.
At the sight of him
the stone washes itself in a tub.
The crow thinks he’s an apple
and drops a worm in.
At the feel of frog
the touch-me-nots explode
like electric slugs.
Slime will have him.
Slime has made him a house.
Mr. Poison
is at my bed.
He wants my sausage.
He wants my bread.
Mama Brundig,
he wants my beer.
He wants my Christ
for a souvenir.
Frog has boil disease
and a bellyful of parasites.
He says: Kiss me. Kiss me.
And the ground soils itself.
Why
should a certain
quite adorable princess
be walking in her garden
at such a time
and toss her golden ball
up like a bubble
and drop it into the well?
It was ordained.
Just as the fates deal out
the plague with a tarot card.
Just as the Supreme Being drills
holes in our skulls to let
the Boston Symphony through.
But I digress.
A loss has taken place.
The ball has sunk like a cast-iron pot
into the bottom of the well.
Lost, she said,
my moon, my butter calf,
my yellow moth, my Hindu hare.
Obviously it was more than a ball.
Balls such as these are not
for sale in Au Bon Marché.
I took the moon, she said,
between my teeth
and now it is gone
and I am lost forever.
A thief had robbed by day.
Suddenly the well grew
thick and boiling
and a frog appeared.
His eyes bulged like two peas
and his body was trussed into place.
Do not be afraid, Princess,
he said, I am not a vagabond,
a cattle farmer, a shepherd,
a doorkeeper, a postman
or a laborer.
I come to you as a tradesman.
I have something to sell.
Your ball, he said,
for just three things.
Let me eat from your plate.
Let me drink from your cup.
Let me sleep in your bed.
She thought, Old Waddler,
those three you will never do,
but she made the promises
with hopes for her ball once more.
He brought it up in his mouth
like a tricky old dog
and she ran back to the castle
leaving the frog quite alone.
That evening at dinner time
a knock was heard on the castle door
and a voice demanded:
King’s youngest daughter,
let me in. You promised;
now open to me.
I have left the skunk cabbage
and the eels to live with you.
The kind then heard her promise
and forced her to comply.
The frog first sat on her lap.
He was as awful as an undertaker.
Next he was at her plate
looking over her bacon
and calves’ liver.
We will eat in tandem,
he said gleefully.
Her fork trembled
as if a small machine
had entered her.
He sat upon the liver
and partook like a gourmet.
The princess choked
as if she were eating a puppy.
From her cup he drank.
It wasn’t exactly hygienic.
From her cup she drank
as if it were Socrates’ hemlock.
Next came the bed.
The silky royal bed.
Ah! The penultimate hour!
There was the pillow
with the princess breathing
and there was the sinuous frog
riding up and down beside her.
I have been lost in a river
of shut doors, he said,
and I have made my way over
the wet stones to live with you.
She woke up aghast.
I suffer for birds and fireflies
but not frogs, she said,
and threw him across the room.
Kaboom!
Like a genie coming out of a samovar,
a handsome prince arose in the
corner of her bedroom.
He had kind eyes and hands
and was a friend of sorrow.
Thus they were married.
After all he had compromised her.
He hired a night watchman
so that no one could enter the chamber
and he had the well
boarded over so that
never again would she lose her ball,
that moon, that Krishna hair,
that blind poppy, that innocent globe,
that madonna womb.
As I was walking through the wood
One warm and sunny summer day,
I chanced upon a  lovely sight
A swirl of butterflies in flight;
Urged on by curiosity,
I followed down the path they flew
And tumbled through a hidden door
Beneath the leafy woodland floor;
A wondrous sight did then appear
As if by magic to my eyes,
And there within a hollow log
I spied a very princely frog;
Nestled deep within that place
Of musty darkness shone a light,
And there I saw as I did look
A princely frog with poem book;
Lounging in his comfy space
With spectacles perched on his nose,
The frog prince reading unaware
Of being watched as I stood there;
So engrossed within his book,
He did not notice as I sneaked
Behind his chair on velvet feet -
Then all at once our eyes did meet
He dropped the book into his lap,
Complete surprise upon his face -
I turned to run and he did follow
Leaping from his hidden hollow
Swift I ran around the tree
And hiding, waited patiently
And soon he lept upon a rock
And then this frog began to talk;
'My dear, within your book I've read,
Your songs of love and gratitude,
Your tales of woe, of joy and such
I must admit, I like it much! '
But there is one thing I would ask
If I may only be so bold,
Now would you please consider this,
And place upon my lips a kiss?
Well, I believe in fairytales
For heaven knows I've read a few,
And if my memory serves me well,
A little kiss might break the spell;
So, pucker up you ugly frog
Let's get this done while in the mood,
I closed my eyes and then did place
A kiss upon his slimey face;
It wasn't bad, he tasted sweet!
I can't believe I kissed a frog!
My eyes did open then and see
A handsome prince smile back at me!
The prince of poets had been freed,
No longer bound beneath the spell -
And in his freedom I did find
A gentle prince, sincere and kind;
He offered then to mentor me
As poet prince, no longer frog -
And I of course said 'yes' and more...............
That day beneath the woodland floor.
New hills in the Septembers the houses get out
Their drinking glasses to remember—
Trying to forget that they never kissed their husbands
Or whomever in a zoo—
Wet mouthed on the weekend of soggy letters—
The sunlight in ridges and ridges surrounding them—
The birds, oily winged—singing,
Christmas hallucinations—places to take off—
Multiple regresses in the bluer than azure grasses—
The echoes of their children like wind chimes
Saying that they are safely upon their way to school
And now is the time to enjoy all of this—
In the wetlands, in the Peitas of the frog princes.
Is the life lived of a belching frog,
More important than the one...
Sitting quietly on a lily pad,
Looking at its reflection...
On a mirror smooth pond?
Or is the frog that belches,
Showing more appreciation...
For the flies that are attracted.
And the reason that a belching frog,
Could care less about an image reflected.
But expresses a gratefulness for the feast,
Available to be eaten.
a frog
who is never given the pond
that he deserves
cannot appreciate
what beauty is,
and the white crane
whose beauty you
adore
who takes frogs
for dinner
of course
shall never be
his goddess
When I was a kid
I caught a poison dart frog;
Its skin was golden!
Roses are red
Violets are blue
I send yoiu these flowers
To show my love for you
Love from the prince
Im kissed
Violets are blue
Roses are red
I send you these flowers
I'm waiting in bed
Love from froggie
I 'd like to speak, told me a frog
about this shadow in the fog
this shadow that is following us
without haste, hurry, or rush
I 'd like to speak, but its forbidden
to tell and to reveal the end
of  a story never read
never begun and never written.
By day, this well-contented frog
Has made his home on yonder log,
Nipping at flies with rounded ribbit-
Grumble
But I've heard tales of the frog by night,
Lit up in limey lunar light,
As dizzy glow worms dip and tight-
Rope tumble:
In glittering waistcoat and top hat,
Beside a leotarded bat,
The frog becomes an acrobat-
Ic wonder!
This have I heard, but is it true?
The frog will not tell me or you -
Just sits and croaks and leaves us two
To ponder.
Three men I saw beside a bar,
Regarding o'er their bottle,
A frog who smoked a rank cigar
They'd jammed within its throttle.
A Pasha frog it must have been
So big it as and bloated;
And from its lips the nicotine
In graceful festoon floated.
And while the trio jeered and joked,
As if it quite enjoyed it,
Impassively it smoked and smoked,
(It could now well avoid it).
A ring of fire its lips were nigh
Yet it seemed all unwitting;
It could not spit, like you and I,
Who've learned the art of spitting.
It did not wink, it did not shrink,
As there serene it squatted'
Its eyes were clear, it did not fear
The fate the Gods allotted.
It squatted there with calm sublime,
Amid their cruel guying;
Grave as a god, and all the time
It knew that it was dying.
And somehow then it seemed to me
These men expectorating,
Were infinitely less than he,
The dumb thing they were baiting.
It seemed to say, despite their jokes:
"This is my hour of glory.
It isn't every frog that smokes:
My name will live in story."
Before its nose the smoke arose;
The flame grew nigher, nigher;
And then I saw its bright eyes close
Beside that ring of fire.
They turned it on its warty back,
From off its bloated belly;
It legs jerked out, then dangled slack;
It quivered like a jelly.
And then the fellows went away,
Contented with their joking;
But even as in death it lay,
The frog continued smoking.
Life's like a lighted fag, thought I;
We smoke it stale; then after
Death turns our belly to the sky:
The Gods must have their laughter.
Cobra sings in Swahili 'What a beautiful creature are you? This world is so vast and you stuck in a deep well for nothing, come out honey in a rainy day.'
'Though I am a huge reptile my heart is very soft sweetheart and I can teach you a knot when you hide in my bosom.' Python boasts.
'I may be a venomous serpent but I never sting your heart my darling.'
Viper whispers.
'Thank you very much my dear friends and I am so grateful for your intimacy, I wait for heavy rains and when there is an overflow I could have come out from this dungeon into your strange world.' Frog utters a Guttural note.
*Saudi Activist: Female Minister comes!
-a News
toad frog and their little son tadpole
were so happy pleased and proud
when their home in the far swamp
they did eventually newly renovate
the sun shone sparkling through
their neat rural aquatic homestead
like a friendly radiant bright crisp
clean vibrant yellow golden gate
illuminates intricate filigree lacy patterns
on their carefully arranged plants and flowers
happily they would together all sit outside
sucking in flies merrily for hours and hours
oh happy happy merry summer swamp scene
to renovate their aquatic home was their dream
this little corner swamp swept all spic and span
beauty still saved yet from dread destructive man
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
The frog by nature is both damp and cold,
Her mouth is large, her belly much will hold;
She sits somewhat ascending, loves to be
Croaking in gardens, though unpleasantly.
Comparison.
The hypocrite is like unto this frog,
As like as is the puppy to the dog.
He is of nature cold, his mouth is wide
To prate, and at true goodness to deride.
He mounts his head as if he was above
The world, when yet 'tis that which has his love.
And though he seeks in churches for to croak,
He neither loveth Jesus nor his yoke.
The old watch: their
thick eyes
puff and foreclose by the moon.The young, heads
trailed by the beginnings of necks,
shiver,
in the guarantee they shall be bodies.
In the frog pond
the vapor trail of a SAC bomber creeps,
I hear its drone, drifting, high up
in immaculate ozone.
I have a pet frog
We go frog walking every day at 6pm
He is fine until he sees another frog
He sniffs & then tries to jump
I pull him away
Last week we had a problem
My frog stopped to do his business
A passer bye said stop your frog fouling
I cleared up after him but it left a slimy mark
The other man slipped on it
My frog likes water
Especially ponds
He likes jumping on lilies
The local gardener is mad
Control your frog he shouts
Well now Im in trouble
Despite the sign
Beware of the FROG
He bit a policeman
A fine guard frog
My frog is now banned
From walks anywhere
Poor froggy is in a cell
Eating flies & drinking water
Its a frogs life
I can see that
water frog
In a pond
Frogs sing lullaby
Noise whacking the rainy night
Inspiration snooze
(In memory of Stephen (Reggie)   Pearce
of Kilnsea,1980–2005)
The wind blows cold through the churchyard trees
and sadly tolls the passing bell
as mourners shuffle up the leaf-strewn
narrow path between the leaning stones.
He was just twenty-five, so young,
so full of life, and love of life
and laughter — killed outright one night
in a head-on crash on his motorbike.
From far and wide we’ve gathered here
to pay respect to our young friend.
I’ve never seen the church so full,
oh death, how can you be so cruel?
Who will forget this funeral?
Four hundred strong in the nave we stood,
family and friends both young and old
and a phalanx of bikers in leathers and boots.
Between the holy platitudes
and hymns they played his favourite songs;
one had to smile to hear within
that ancient august church of stone
come belting out the vibrant tones
of modern rock and heavy metal.
Who can forget the coffin passing
in procession like a royal barque,
the biker’s helmet on its lid
resplendent in heraldic tones
— rich gules, azure, argent, or,
a shining light of knightly splendour?
Who will forget that send-off from
his fellow bikers when three score
or more bright gleaming motorcycles
with a thunderous roar led off the hearse?
They have arrived again my friend!
To be with us again
To claim bond of relations with the deceased
As if they were blood bond relatives with the fallen blood
You see, with their crocodile faces and tears they landed
Pretending to be generous.
With their uncircumcised heart and coordinated prayers
They smell what the fallen brother has left.
Look at their leaking mouth
For the visit of death erects their ears.
This poem tells how people go for burial or funeral with their different motives and interests especially in Africa.
After the funeral, mule praises, brays,
Windshake of sailshaped ears, muffle-toed tap
Tap happily of one peg in the thick
Grave's foot, blinds down the lids, the teeth in black,
The spittled eyes, the salt ponds in the sleeves,
Morning smack of the spade that wakes up sleep,
Shakes a desolate boy who slits his throat
In the dark of the coffin and sheds dry leaves,
That breaks one bone to light with a judgment clout'
After the feast of tear-stuffed time and thistles
In a room with a stuffed fox and a stale fern,
I stand, for this memorial's sake, alone
In the snivelling hours with dead, humped Ann
Whose hodded, fountain heart once fell in puddles
Round the parched worlds of Wales and drowned each sun
(Though this for her is a monstrous image blindly
Magnified out of praise; her death was a still drop;
She would not have me sinking in the holy
Flood of her heart's fame; she would lie dumb and deep
And need no druid of her broken body).
But I, Ann's bard on a raised hearth, call all
The seas to service that her wood-tongud virtue
Babble like a bellbuoy over the hymning heads,
Bow down the walls of the ferned and foxy woods
That her love sing and swing through a brown chapel,
Blees her bent spirit with four, crossing birds.
Her flesh was meek as milk, but this skyward statue
With the wild breast and blessed and giant skull
Is carved from her in a room with a wet window
In a fiercely mourning house in a crooked year.
I know her scrubbed and sour humble hands
Lie with religion in their cramp, her threadbare
Whisper in a damp word, her wits drilled hollow,
Her fist of a face died clenched on a round pain;
And sculptured Ann is seventy years of stone.
These cloud-sopped, marble hands, this monumental
Argument of the hewn voice, gesture and psalm
Storm me forever over her grave until
The stuffed lung of the fox twitch and cry Love
And the strutting fern lay seeds on the black sill.
Pale, at its ghastly noon,
Pauses above the death-still wood--the moon;
The night-sprite, sighing, through the dim air stirs;
The clouds descend in rain;
Mourning, the wan stars wane,
Flickering like dying lamps in sepulchres!
Haggard as spectres--vision-like and dumb,
Dark with the pomp of death, and moving slow,
Towards that sad lair the pale procession come
Where the grave closes on the night below.
With dim, deep-sunken eye,
Crutched on his staff, who trembles tottering by?
As wrung from out the shattered heart, one groan
Breaks the deep hush alone!
Crushed by the iron fate, he seems to gather
All life's last strength to stagger to the bier,
And hearken--Do these cold lips murmur "Father?"
The sharp rain, drizzling through that place of fear,
Pierces the bones gnawed fleshless by despair,
And the heart's horror stirs the silver hair.
Fresh bleed the fiery wounds
Through all that agonizing heart undone--
Still on the voiceless lips "my Father" sounds,
And still the childless Father murmurs "Son!"
Ice-cold--ice-cold, in that white shroud he lies--
Thy sweet and golden dreams all vanished there--
The sweet and golden name of "Father" dies
Into thy curse,--ice-cold--ice-cold--he lies!
Dead, what thy life's delight and Eden were!
Mild, as when, fresh from the arms of Aurora,
While the air like Elysium is smiling above,
Steeped in rose-breathing odors, the darling of Flora
Wantons over the blooms on his winglets of love.
So gay, o'er the meads, went his footsteps in bliss,
The silver wave mirrored the smile of his face;
Delight, like a flame, kindled up at his kiss,
And the heart of the maid was the prey of his chase.
Boldly he sprang to the strife of the world,
As a deer to the mountain-top carelessly springs;
As an eagle whose plumes to the sun are unfurled,
Swept his hope round the heaven on its limitless wings.
Proud as a war-horse that chafes at the rein,
That, kingly, exults in the storm of the brave;
That throws to the wind the wild stream of its mane,
Strode he forth by the prince and the slave!
Life like a spring day, serene and divine,
In the star of the morning went by as a trance;
His murmurs he drowned in the gold of the wine,
And his sorrows were borne on the wave of the dance.
Worlds lay concealed in the hopes of his youth!--
When once he shall ripen to manhood and fame!
Fond father exult!--In the germs of his youth
What harvests are destined for manhood and fame!
Not to be was that manhood!--The death-bell is knelling,
The hinge of the death-vault creaks harsh on the ears--
How dismal, O Death, is the place of thy dwelling!
Not to be was that manhood!--Flow on, bitter tears!
Go, beloved, thy path to the sun,
Rise, world upon world, with the perfect to rest;
Go--quaff the delight which thy spirit has won,
And escape from our grief in the Halls of the Blest.
Again (in that thought what a healing is found!)
To meet in the Eden to which thou art fled!--
Hark, the coffin sinks down with a dull, sullen sound,
And the ropes rattle over the sleep of the dead.
And we cling to each other!--O Grave, he is thine!
The eye tells the woe that is mute to the ears--
And we dare to resent what we grudge to resign,
Till the heart's sinful murmur is choked in its tears.
Pale at its ghastly noon,
Pauses above the death-still wood--the moon!
The night-sprite, sighing, through the dim air stirs:
The clouds descend in rain;
Mourning, the wan stars wane,
Flickering like dying lamps in sepulchres.
The dull clods swell into the sullen mound;
Earth, one look yet upon the prey we gave!
The grave locks up the treasure it has found;
Higher and higher swells the sullen mound--
Never gives back the grave!
i carefully place
myself on the pyre of
dreams that desert me
from time to time...
my ears intently tune
themselves to hear
the message of futility
conveyed through
the crackling of chips
everywhere on this island
insulated by the salt waters
my soul roams about in
desperation for a release
*on reading mr.arkay dass' 'Island of Isolation'
06may2010
13.20hrs
Early darkness; as oil we drip on tarmac,
a gathering in black fallen from the sky.
With lemon faces we shadow the next.
Tears empty and clear; cutting out the jabber
still alive we drift over cobbles. Arms alongside
too distant and too close, much too close.
The crows send us back into the rain,
a brass aside breaks the ring, a hole in life.
We stare into; is that all?
Destitute in my thoughts,
I found myself removed that day.
There he was,
lying cold
And just ten.
A bloody shame.
It’s hard to quite grasp
the feeling first
encountered
upon the image of a corpse.
Shock, fear,
and a deep sadness:
the inevitable frailty of life.
A “corpse” I thought.
This little man
Once a name,
Now as ice and plastic,
what have you become?
I remember how he used to make me smile,
And the way he would tease his dog “Abby”.
They say animals recognize the soul,
His was a gentle one…
Just a child,
unaware of the pain the world can bring.
He was too young to know fear,
And her touch had not yet corrupted him.
A bloody shame.
Amongst the crowd were mourners,
Little children and adults.
They had come to see their friend,
But children should never know this pain.
They brought toys, flowers
and the hope of the
lives they would lead.
Tiny hands, and tiny feet,
while
his remained cold.
In and out they paid their respects,
“oh it’s a shame” and
“he was so young”.
And then back to life.
My uncle stood alone.
Your pain will never be removed,
And for that I'm sorry,
A bloody shame.
Copyright (c)       David DeSantis
I can see all things now.
I can see so many tears.
I can see so much pain, In so many faces.
I can see it all so clearly now.
I can sense the pain,
In the souls passing by.
I can feel hearts breaking,
I can feel so much sorrow, that shouldn't be.
Please don't weep, not for me.
I am so much better off now.
Can you believe, I am actually happy.
I can see everything so clearly now.
Look up, see the leaves as they move,
See the clouds as they float by.
Feel the wind on your face,
Taste the rain on your tongue.
It is me.
I still exist.
I will always be with you.
I still exist.
2/7/11 Alton Texas
Through airy roads he wings his instant flight
To purer regions of celestial light;
Enlarg'd he sees unnumber'd systems roll,
Beneath him sees the universal whole,
Planets on planets run their destin'd round,
And circling wonders fill the vast profound.
Th' ethereal now, and now th' empyreal skies
With growing splendors strike his wond'ring eyes:
The angels view him with delight unknown,
Press his soft hand, and seat him on his throne;
Then smilling thus: 'To this divine abode,
'The seat of saints, of seraphs, and of God,
'Thrice welcome thou.'  The raptur'd babe replies,
'Thanks to my God, who snatch'd me to the skies,
'E'er vice triumphant had possess'd my heart,
'E'er yet the tempter had beguil d my heart,
'E'er yet on sin's base actions I was bent,
'E'er yet I knew temptation's dire intent;
'E'er yet the lash for horrid crimes I felt,
'E'er vanity had led my way to guilt,
'But, soon arriv'd at my celestial goal,
'Full glories rush on my expanding soul.'
Joyful he spoke: exulting cherubs round
Clapt their glad wings, the heav'nly vaults resound.
Say, parents, why this unavailing moan?
Why heave your pensive bosoms with the groan?
To Charles, the happy subject of my song,
A brighter world, and nobler strains belong.
Say would you tear him from the realms above
By thoughtless wishes, and prepost'rous love?
Doth his felicity increase your pain?
Or could you welcome to this world again
The heir of bliss? with a superior air
Methinks he answers with a smile severe,
'Thrones and dominions cannot tempt me there.'
But still you cry, 'Can we the sigh borbear,
'And still and still must we not pour the tear?
'Our only hope, more dear than vital breath,
'Twelve moons revolv'd, becomes the prey of death;
'Delightful infant, nightly visions give
'Thee to our arms, and we with joy receive,
'We fain would clasp the Phantom to our breast,
'The Phantom flies, and leaves the soul unblest.'
To yon bright regions let your faith ascend,
Prepare to join your dearest infant friend
In pleasures without measure, without end.
WITH steady march across the daisy meadow,
And by the churchyard wall we go;
But leave behind, beneath the linden shadow,
One, who no more will rise and go:
Farewell, our brother, here sleeping in dust,
Till thou shalt wake again, wake with the just.
Along the street where neighbor nods to neighbor,
Along the busy street we throng,
Once more to laugh, to live and love and labor,--
But he will be remembered long:
Sleep well, our brother, though sleeping in dust:
Shalt thou not rise again--rise with the just?
Farewell, true heart and kindly hand, left lying
Where wave the linden branches calm;
'T is his to live, and ours to wait for dying,
We win, while he has won, the palm;
Farewell, our brother! But one day, we trust,
Call--he will answer Thee, God of the just.
Let us begin and carry up this corpse,
Singing together.
Leave we the common crofts, the vulgar thorpes
Each in its tether
Sleeping safe on the bosom of the plain,
Cared-for till cock-crow:
Look out if yonder be not day again
Rimming the rock-row!
That's the appropriate country; there, man's thought,
Rarer, intenser,
Self-gathered for an outbreak, as it ought,
Chafes in the censer.
Leave we the unlettered plain its herd and crop;
Seek we sepulture
On a tall mountain, citied to the top,
Crowded with culture!
All the peaks soar, but one the rest excels;
Clouds overcome it;
No! yonder sparkle is the citadel's
Circling its summit.
Thither our path lies; wind we up the heights:
Wait ye the warning?
Our low life was the level's and the night's;
He's for the morning.
Step to a tune, square chests, erect each head,
'Ware the beholders!
This is our master, famous, calm and dead,
Borne on our shoulders.
Sleep, crop and herd! sleep, darkling thorpe and croft,
Safe from the weather!
He, whom we convoy to his grave aloft,
Singing together,
He was a man born with thy face and throat,
Lyric Apollo!
Long he lived nameless: how should spring take note
Winter would follow?
Till lo, the little touch, and youth was gone!
Cramped and diminished,
Moaned he, "New measures, other feet anon!
My dance is finished"?
No, that's the world's way: (keep the mountain-side,
Make for the city!)
He knew the signal, and stepped on with pride
Over men's pity;
Left play for work, and grappled with the world
Bent on escaping:
"What's in the scroll," quoth he, "thou keepest furled
Show me their shaping,
Theirs who most studied man, the bard and sage,--
Give!"--So, he gowned him,
Straight got by heart that book to its last page:
Learned, we found him.
Yea, but we found him bald too, eyes like lead,
Accents uncertain:
"Time to taste life," another would have said,
"Up with the curtain!"
This man said rather, "Actual life comes next?
Patience a moment!
Grant I have mastered learning's crabbed text,
Still there's the comment.
Let me know all! Prate not of most or least,
Painful or easy!
Even to the crumbs I'd fain eat up the feast,
Ay, nor feel queasy."
Oh, such a life as he resolved to live,
When he had learned it,
When he had gathered all books had to give!
Sooner, he spurned it.
Image the whole, then execute the parts--
Fancy the fabric
Quite, ere you build, ere steel strike fire from quartz,
Ere mortar dab brick!
(Here's the town-gate reached: there's the market-place
Gaping before us.)
Yea, this in him was the peculiar grace
(Hearten our chorus!)
That before living he'd learn how to live--
No end to learning:
Earn the means first--God surely will contrive
Use for our earning.
Others mistrust and say, "But time escapes:
Live now or never!"
He said, "What's time? Leave Now for dogs and apes!
Man has Forever."
Back to his book then: deeper drooped his head:
Calculus racked him:
Leaden before, his eyes grew dross of lead:
Tussis attacked him.
"Now, master, take a little rest!"--not he!
(Caution redoubled
Step two abreast, the way winds narrowly!)
Not a whit troubled,
Back to his studies, fresher than at first,
Fierce as a dragon
He (soul-hydroptic with a sacred thirst)
Sucked at the flagon.
Oh, if we draw a circle premature,
Heedless of far gain,
Greedy for quick returns of profit, sure
Bad is our bargain!
Was it not great? did not he throw on God,
(He loves the burthen)--
God's task to make the heavenly period
Perfect the earthen?
Did not he magnify the mind, show clear
Just what it all meant?
He would not discount life, as fools do here,
Paid by instalment.
He ventured neck or nothing--heaven's success
Found, or earth's failure:
"Wilt thou trust death or not?" He answered "Yes:
Hence with life's pale lure!"
That low man seeks a little thing to do,
Sees it and does it:
This high man, with a great thing to pursue,
Dies ere he knows it.
That low man goes on adding one to one,
His hundred's soon hit:
This high man, aiming at a million,
Misses an unit.
That, has the world here--should he need the next,
Let the world mind him!
This, throws himself on God, and unperplexed
Seeking shall find him.
So, with the throttling hands of death at strife,
Ground he at grammar;
Still, thro' the rattle, parts of speech were rife:
While he could stammer
He settled Hoti's business--let it be!--
Properly based Oun--
Gave us the doctrine of the enclitic De,
Dead from the waist down.
Well, here's the platform, here's the proper place:
Hail to your purlieus,
All ye highfliers of the feathered race,
Swallows and curlews!
Here's the top-peak; the multitude below
Live, for they can, there:
This man decided not to Live but Know--
Bury this man there?
Here--here's his place, where meteors shoot, clouds form,
Lightnings are loosened,
Stars come and go! Let joy break with the storm,
Peace let the dew send!
Lofty designs must close in like effects:
Loftily lying,
Leave him--still loftier than the world suspects,
Living and dying.
From the slow march and muffled drum,
And crowds distrest,
And book and bell, at length I have come
To my full rest.
A ten years' rule beneath the sun
Is wound up here,
And what I have done, what left undone,
Figures out clear.
Yet in the estimate of such
It grieves me more
That I by some was loved so much
Than that I bore,
From others, judgment of that hue
Which over-hope
Breeds from a theoretic view
Of regal scope.
For kingly opportunities
Right many have sighed;
How best to bear its devilries
Those learn who have tried!
I have eaten the fat and drunk the sweet,
Lived the life out
From the first greeting glad drum-beat
To the last shout.
What pleasure earth affords to kings
I have enjoyed
Through its long vivid pulse-stirrings
Even till it cloyed.
What days of strain, what nights of stress
Can cark a throne,
Even one maintained in peacefulness,
I too have known.
And so, I think, could I step back
To life again,
I should prefer the average track
Of average men,
Since, as with them, what kingship would
It cannot do,
Nor to first thoughts however good
Hold itself true.
Something binds hard the royal hand,
As all that be,
And it is That has shaped, has planned
My acts and me.
I often tell my beloved,
Please adorn me with beautiful,
Jasmine flowers.
Like a lovely bride, I should look.
Once, I had long shining silky hair,
And I loved to wear jasmine flowers,
But I cut my hair short.
But don't be stingy
Tuck jasmine flowers only, in my hair.
Cover me with kanjeepuram sari only,
Else I will question you.
As I love to look today,
Like a beautiful bride.
Cover me with full of fragrance,
As I love perfumes,
My eyes to be beautifully drawn with,
Eye Liner.
Of course, be careful as it may hurt me too.
No lipstick as I don't like.
Yeah but scented talcum powder would be fine for me.
And one big bindi on my forehead.
And a small sandal wood paste on top of it.
I should look like a beautiful bride.
Ain't I?
Don't wake up the bride.
She is in her deep sleep....
Let her sleep!
Note..In this poem, I portrayed a scene of a woman whose husband fulfils her last death wishes. Like a bride she was decorated and taken for funeral. Thats why I said last lines...let her sleep...
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY GEETHA JAYAKUMAR 2014
© 2014.
Geetha Jayakumar.
Give us, God, to Thee now turning,
Fullness of joy, tears full and burning,
Of will the full refining fire!
Hear our prayer o'er his inurning:
His will was
one
, the whole discerning,
His whole soul would to it aspire.
Yes; give us yet again,
With power to lead, great men,-
Power in counsel our folk to lead,
Our folk in deed,
Our folk in gladness and in need!
Thou, O God, our want preventest;
To raise the temple
him
Thou lentest,
A spirit bright and pure and great.
When Thou from time to call him meantest,
Her tender soul to him Thou sentest
Who went before to heaven's gate.
When Thou didst set him free,
An epoch ceased to be.
Men then marveled, the while they said:
'Living and dead,
O'er all our land he beauty spread.'
Help us, God, to wiser waring,
When to our land Thou light art bearing,
That we Thy dayspring then may know.
God, our future Thou'rt preparing,
Oh, give us longing, honor's daring,
That we the great may not forego!
Thou sentest many out,-
Cease not, our God, nor doubt!
Let us follow Thy way, Thy call,
Men, words, and all!
Thy mercies shall our North enwall!
26/10/10 a poets funeral
On a very humid Tuesday morning
A cavalcade of cars slowly move by
Rose petals on the hot black tarmac
Like words from his directory of verse
Or tear drops for the one now beyond his time
Then the poet himself comes grinning wide
Enjoying the ambulance wind shield ride
Even as most of him lay inside properly iced
The poet whom the state briefly forgot
In his dying days – a tramp in hospital corridors
Now inching towards his hour of crowning glory
To fresh garlands and stately wreaths
Before the switch is finally flipped
And he is consecrated to the elements five
A state funeral for a derelict poet
A poet who now will continue to live on ……………………..
I loved her too, this woman who is dead.
Look in my face. I have a right to go
And see the place where you have made her bed
Among the snow.
I loved her too whom you are burying.
I have a right to stand beside her bier,
And to my handful of the dust I fling,
That she may hear.
I loved her; and it was not for the eyes
Which you have shut, nor for her yellow hair,
Nor for the face which in your bosom lies.
Let it lie there!
Nor for the wild--birds' music of her voice,
Which we shall hear in dreams till we too sleep;
Nor for the rest, which made the world rejoice,
The angels weep.
It was not for the payment of sweet love,
Though love is often straitened for a kiss,
Nor for the hope of other joys above,
But only this,
That she had laid her hand upon my heart
Once in the summer time when we were young,
And that her finger--tips had left a smart,
And that my tongue
Had spoken words which might not be unspoken
Lest they should make a by--word of love's truth,
And I had sworn that love should be the token
Of my youth.
And so I gave her all, and long ago
The treasure of my youth was put in pawn;
And she was little richer that I know
When that was gone.
But I have lived a beggar since that day
And hide my face it may be from men's eyes;
For often I have seen them shrink away,
As in surprise
That such a loathsome cripple should be found
To walk abroad in daylight with the rest,
And scarce a rag to cover up the wound
Upon his breast.
Yet no man stopped to ask how this might be,
Or I had scared them, and let loose my tongue,
How I had bought myself this misery
When I was young.
Yet I have loved her. This must be my pay,
The pension I have earned me with these tears;
The right to kneel beside her grave to--day,
Despite these years,
With all her kisses burning on my cheek,
As when I left her and our love was dead,
And our lips trembled though they did not speak,
The night I fled;
The right to bid you stand aside, nor be
A witness of our meeting. Did you love
In joy as I have loved in misery?
You did not prove
Your love was stronger than the strength of death,
Or she had never died upon your hand.
I would have fed her breathing with my breath;
I would have fanned
A living wind of Heaven to her lips;
I would have stolen life from Paradise.
And she is dead, and you have seen eclipse
Within those eyes.
If I could know that you had loved her well;
If I could hold it for a certainty
That you had sold your life as I did sell;
If I could see
The blackness of your soul, and with my tongue
Taste the full bitterness of tears unshed;
If I should find your very heart was wrung
And maimed and dead;
If I should feel your hand's grasp crumble mine,
And hug the pain when I should grasp in turn;
If I could dip my fingers in the brine
Of eyes that burn;
If I could hear your voice call back the dead
With such a mighty cry of agony
That she should turn and listen in the bed
Where she doth lie,
And all the heavens should together roll,
Thinking they heard the angel's trumpet tone,
I could forget it that you bought a soul
Which was my own;
I could forget that she forgot her vows,
That aught was bartered for the wealth of love;
I could untell the story of my woes,
Till God above
Should hold her guiltless and condone the wrong
Done to His justice; I could take your hand
And call you brother, as we went along
To take our stand
Before His judgment--seat with her again
Where we are hurrying,--for we could not keep
Our place unchallenged in the ranks of men
Who do not weep.
You won't believe this, rightfully so, you'll think it’s not true
but a person will do anything, when he starts losing his screw
I didn't feel that any one loved me, so I devised one day
to test out my theory, in the most bizarre type of way
I found a way after considerable thought, to put myself on display
and to be able to stay inconspicuous, from a secure distance away
I watched them attend my eulogy, peculiar as it may sound
enjoying the reception, It was nothing short of spellbound
Who could think, a person as crazy as I might be
going to such extremes, who would ever foresee
to accomplish this great task, of convincing my heart
someone would somehow care, if I really did depart
In the back of the room, with shades covering my eyes
sinking into a chair, surrounded by this chorus of cries
who would ever suspect, that this stranger sitting in the back
was really not far away, from being deemed a quack
When my funeral was about over, I watched those flowers start to bend
they too seemed to be saying, haven't you yet been able to mend
so I pushed myself up front, in order to get a better look
this death looks too real, what if I really did pass over that final brook
As I approached my casket, overtaken by this powerful desire
could this really be happening, shaking with a cold perspire
to escape from this nightmare, there was but one thing to do
hastening to relieve myself, running from bed to bathroom, I flew
The lesson here to be learned, after thinking about it, was simple and clear
we often have these fears, and yet are not always aware
what’s important for us, is to truly recognize in ourselves, which is the key
understanding our need to feel loved, and the absurd lengths we go, in order to see
[One of the Bearers Soliloquizes:]
. . . Room in your heart for him, O Mother Earth,
Who loved each flower and leaf that made you fair,
And sang your praises in verses manifold
And delicate, with here and there a line
From end to end in blossom like a bough
The May breathes on, so rich it was. Some thought
The workmanship more costly than the thing
Moulded or carved, as in those ornaments
Found at Mycæne. And yet Nature's self
Works in this wise; upon a blade of grass,
Or what small note she lends the woodland thrush,
Lavishing endless patience. He was born
Artist, not artisan, which some few saw
And many dreamed not. As he wrote no odes
When Croesus wedded or Mæcenas died,
And gave no breath to civic feasts and shows,
He missed the glare that gilds more facile men--
A twilight poet, groping quite alone,
Belated, in a sphere where every nest
Is emptied of its music and its wings.
Not great his gift; yet we can poorly spare
Even his slight perfection in an age
Of limping triolets and tame rondeaux.
He had at least ideals, though unreached,
And heard, far off, immortal harmonies,
Such as fall coldly on our ear to-day.
The mighty Zolastic Movement now
Engrosses us--a miasmatic breath
Blown from the slums. We paint life as it is,
The hideous side of it, with careful pains,
Making a god of the dull Commonplace.
For have we not the old gods overthrown
And set up strangest idols? We would clip
Imagination's wing and kill delight,
Our sole art being to leave nothing out
That renders art offensive. Not for us
Madonnas leaning from their starry thrones
Ineffable, nor any heaven-wrought dream
Of sculptor or of poet; we prefer
Such nightmare visions as in morbid brains
Take shape and substance, thoughts that taint the air
And make all life unlovely. Will it last?
Beauty alone endures from age to age,
From age to age endures, handmaid of God.
Poets who walk with her on earth go hence
Bearing a talisman. You bury one,
With his hushed music, in some Potter's Field;
The snows and rains blot out his very name,
As he from life seems blotted; through Time's glass
Slip the invisible and magic sands
That mark the century, then falls a day
The world is suddenly conscious of a flower,
Imperishable, ever to be prized,
Sprung from the mould of a forgotten grave.
'T is said the seeds wrapt up among the balms
And hieroglyphics of Egyptian kings
old strange vitality, and, planted, grow
After the lapse of thrice a thousand years.
Some day, perchance, some unregarded note
Of our poor friend here--some sweet minor chord
That failed to lure our more accustomed ear--
Way witch the fancy of an unborn age.
Who knows, since seeds have such tenacity?
Meanwhile he's dead, with scantiest laurel won
And little of our Ninteenth Century gold.
So, take him, Earth, and this his mortal part,
With that shrewd alchemy thou hast, transmute
To flower and leaf in thine unending springs!
February 2, 1901
Her sacred body bear: the tenement
Of that strong soul now ranked with God's Elect
Her heart upon her people's heart she spent;
Hence is she Royalty's lodestar to direct.
The peace is hers, of whom all lands have praised
Majestic virtues ere her day unseen.
Aloft the name of Womanhood she raised,
And gave new readings to the Title, Queen.
AWAY with funeral music - set
The pipe to powerful lips -
The cup of life's for him that drinks
And not for him that sips.
The time has not come before
And this is new.
The light is opening for the day
An ingénue displaying her bosom
To man’s face-
I remember when
I was young in following her.
Her tassels feeling through the trees
And drinking roots,
She laughed even while
Alone;
Giggling,
She rode her bicycle across campus.
I staid up all night and prayed for her.
When tired, she slept
In the shade of a house-
Eyes half closed. I came to her,
She yawned and turned me away.
She said she loved me
Only when she was drunk,
And it was yet that time-
So long ago, yesterday....
Then early this morning she came to me
And offered me the quaff
Of lips.
Dripping nectar on the limbs,
She said, “Never before now, old man, ”
As they lowered me in the grave,
Her light budded
A valleyide of rubrum,
A wedding at my funeral.
Well, come to the new years ball,
have a fun time celebratin' the funeral of 1999...
'twas a heckofatic time, slime, mime, a promise of a better time, asses worked to the tale bone, pockets vacant, awaiting the lotaree of hopeless winnings spent of dreamin' losers, enjoyin' the pitance of a security, socialized, Roosevelts scam of the century, leaves old tired farts with no more to live on than scrounging snails in a garden of tumbleweeds, BUTT! there's still soap, water and free sunshine,9huntread and 9ty bucks for $1.99Ct sneakers of the 30's, no nice Jewish bred boy would ever wear a painter's dung-agree blue ripped pants, Levis, ?
HA i wondered weather one of my cousins invented the 'poor mans' shameful garb, models have the style, bigdeal kalvin klein put his own label name, and; the other crooked legged punks did the same, poor kids in mexico, eye think get a nickle or a dime, or maybe 'nough for a handful of riced beans to sew them for the crookiteers, Oh Yeah! tawk 'bout, write about, sneer for or accept, the price for fuel, milk, bread, rent, not to mention what it took to replace a 5ct trolley ride, eye could go on+on, u all know, if you're considered an antique of life, belly belt bustin', wide hip whipped creamed abuser, grey and clairolded defusered, and an invain irreplacement 'Dude', that got taken for a bald spot and touped for hairty hundred shmucked bucks, Forgive me Lord, of the universe, over seer of chanooka, xmas, budda, devoties of the services that knock on doors, and wanna save ass', i tell them it's much to late, as i turn to face them, ooops, aren't we all, 'about face' one way or an other? , i think eye still have all the soul savin' pamflit writlits stashed somewhere, fearing, that my world would come to an end before i see the new born,2000 babe if i throwthemout, go'head, if you're the one to dare, make a resolution! , promise yourself to? not? be? a? potty pooper and knitcrap into the next millenium without the protection of, life insurance and at least, some eyesorely credited degrees and a high sat tas phd xyz and; all ways to have; an ample supply of latexed peepee gloves....
Gotta get ready to feast with the loving Christian side of my family, I do love them, why? even some of my best friends are all
gentiles, as for the Hebrews, oh! well, they're still trying their case and i ain't takin' no sides, not even 'french fries'
Louie Levy
12 25 99
11: 59 8 7 6 5 4 2.....iz the ball on the way down, will it reach the bottom or not move a'tall? ?
Lurking in human minds, can be seen an alien, named 'y2k', Y this year,2 thousand idiot years, now smart, dependant on machines to run the clocks of fate, control our lives, deplete our impoverished security, and rob our very spirits of the unpredictable predictable, cancel all flights, ground the pidgeons, save our eagles, withdraw for the dresser draws and sleep on the doughed mattress, afraid to leave it unattended, woe's to the 'lectronic crazed minds of kids that hacked us unto the future of space roboted 'puter robbing monsters, hardly reassembling the dead flesh corpses of poor misunderstood 'Frankenkind',
2 million, times 2 eyes times billions, lookin at a lit spitball? freezin' their asses with no where to pee or shitinsight,
'oh honey! please hold it in, go'head, let it out, no one will notice the ice sickles frozen from your fly, we CAN'T miss the 'BALL' cummin' down for the Earth, aren't ya proud we're here in Newyawkcity? what a pity, they're nuts all here with us, it's not the same, TV lookin' at our one and only bawl, HEY! eye think it's movin'! ! !
what if it won't cum down? , will we turn upside frown, the subways will be stuck, howl we get home, i toldya i didn't wanna come,
hey schmuck! stop pushin' and get your paw of my..., this is NO time for that, later, the ball's cumin' down! yeah yeah yeah! 3 2 1... whew! she made it, we're saved! '
'HAPPY NEW YEAR! ' world,
did all your balls work like ours? sure hope so, after all,
We in New Yawk, have the greatest one, ball, that is, in the hole world! and now we gotta put it back for next year, hmmm,
what if we don't even have no balls then and they just show pictures?
Oh well, who cares?
'i just love your hand on my, ooops, it's gettin' warmer every year, greenhouse aflick, ya know? ? '
Migrated Louie Levy
TV, at home in Southern Ca
2000
Forty body bags thrown atop with each other
Labeled for cremation
Among them were women, men, children, fathers, mothers, sister and brothers
To be burnt to ash, that was their destination,
All rested inside a garage
Bodies decomposing
Their bodies leaked fluids through the bag
I guess they were not Zip-Lock bags
The funeral home had a contract with Georgetown Medical School,
William Chambers said that things were in disarray
What a frickin' fool!
His brother Tom denied any culpability
For this unsanitary, immoral, and most likely illegal fray.
Some of the bag tags were unidentifiable
Due to the immense leakage from the inside
The smell must've been grotesquely foul
Yet the Chambers Brothers did something wrong, you ask?
They flatly denied.
The mortuary license the Chambers had had been suspended last Friday
They have to cremate the bodies that they have in their possession
A&E should do a 'Hoarding' special series on Chambers Brothers.
So much for this observation.
5-10-10
http: //www.aolnews.com/nation/article/maryland-funeral -home-to-be-closed-for-piling-bodies-in-garage/19 465484? icid=main|main|dl1|link6|http%3A%2F%2Fwww.aolnews .com%2Fnation
By his side, whose days are past,
Lay bow and quiver!
And his eyes that stare aghast
Close, with a shiver.
God nor man from Death, at last,
Love may deliver.
Though, of old, we vowed, my dear,
Death should not take him;
Mourn not thou that we must here
Coldly forsake him;
Shed above his grave no tear,
Tears will not wake him.
Cupid lieth cold and dead,
Ended his flying,
Pale his lips, once rosy-red,
Swift was his dying.
Place a stone above his head,
Turn away, sighing.
BY his side, whose days are past,
Lay bow and quiver!
And his eyes that stare aghast
Close, with a shiver.
God nor man from Death, at last,
Love may deliver.
Though—of old—we vowed, my dear,
Death should not take him;
Mourn not thou that we must here
Coldly forsake him;
Shed above his grave no tear—
Tears will not wake him.
Cupid lieth cold and dead—
Ended his flying,
Pale his lips, once rosy-red,
Swift was his dying.
Place a stone above his head,
Turn away, sighing.
Make my funeral happy when my life as gone
Dress in rainbow colours nothing dark and drab
Smile though your hearts are aching
Send me off with a King Cole song
My darling wife all thru my life my kids and theirs
I love you all, give a toast have a dance and really stand up tall
Shed a tear of course but finish off, with a grin
Turn this into a happy day God approves it ain’t no sin
Bring on the clowns and dancers, cakes and fun
Open all the doors and fill the place with sun
Fill your hearts with joy in knowing I’m dressed in white and
Dancing in the clouds and see, my quickstep makes it rain
I promise to you all I will rest in peace if after this day
You will live every day in happiness and pursue your dreams of joy
Then if you do I assure you they will all come true...........
God bless you's all
Michael Jackson's 'SMILE' played, as the coffin entered everyone stood tall
Mum's poem was read and felt by all
The Mourners were smiling at the photo's of Mum
As the DVD played, no one was glum
Happy pictures were played of Mum's life with a tear
To the tune of the music 'If I Lay Here'
Friends got up for the Eulogy
Wonderful Words spoken of Mum... Now free
Free to move on, to follow a new life
Happy if Dad, finds a new wife
Everyone looked like they were enjoying the moment
In a room full of love; as if Heaven sent
For Mum was so kind and by all adored
Yet sadly the Funeral Conductor looked everso bored
He looked like he had something better to do
This was just a job and he really didn't care just who...
Who had died Or who was grieving
About the life of this person or the world they were leaving
So... Make sure you write.. Your Funeral Plan
It saves pain for the family, A real helping hand
You can choose your Funeral Home, coffin, Cemetery and your music too
It will take away some pain Of  losing you
Copyright Reserved May 2014
LYN PAUL
MADAM—
That I might make your cabinet my tomb,
And for my fame, which I love next my soul,
Next to my soul provide the happiest room,
Admit to that place this last funeral scroll.
Others by wills give legacies, but I
Dying, of you do beg a legacy.
My fortune and my will this custom break,
When we are senseless grown to make stones speak,
Though no stone tell thee what I was, yet thou
In my grave's inside seest what thou art now,
Yet thou 'rt not yet so good ; till death us lay
To ripe and mellow there, we're stubborn clay.
Parents make us earth, and souls dignify
Us to be glass ; here to grow gold we lie.
Whilst in our souls sin bred and pamper'd is,
Our souls become worm-eaten carcases.
The coffin as I past across the lane
Came sudden on my view. It was not here,
A sight of every day, as in the streets
Of the great city, and we paus'd and ask'd
Who to the grave was going. It was one,
A village girl, they told us, who had borne
An eighteen months strange illness, and had pined
With such slow wasting that the hour of death
Came welcome to her. We pursued our way
To the house of mirth, and with that idle talk
That passes o'er the mind and is forgot,
We wore away the time. But it was eve
When homewardly I went, and in the air
Was that cool freshness, that discolouring shade
That makes the eye turn inward. Then I heard
Over the vale the heavy toll of death
Sound slow; it made me think upon the dead,
I questioned more and learnt her sorrowful tale.
She bore unhusbanded a mother's name,
And he who should have cherished her, far off
Sail'd on the seas, self-exil'd from his home,
For he was poor. Left thus, a wretched one,
Scorn made a mock of her, and evil tongues
Were busy with her name. She had one ill
Heavier, neglect, forgetfulness from him
Whom she had loved so dearly. Once he wrote,
But only once that drop of comfort came
To mingle with her cup of wretchedness;
And when his parents had some tidings from him,
There was no mention of poor Hannah there,
Or 'twas the cold enquiry, bitterer
Than silence. So she pined and pined away
And for herself and baby toil'd and toil'd,
Nor did she, even on her death bed, rest
From labour, knitting with her outstretch'd arms
Till she sunk with very weakness. Her old mother
Omitted no kind office, and she work'd
Hard, and with hardest working barely earn'd
Enough to make life struggle and prolong
The pains of grief and sickness. Thus she lay
On the sick bed of poverty, so worn
With her long suffering and that painful thought
That at her heart lay rankling, and so weak,
That she could make no effort to express
Affection for her infant; and the child,
Whose lisping love perhaps had solaced her
With a strange infantine ingratitude
Shunn'd her as one indifferent. She was past
That anguish, for she felt her hour draw on,
And 'twas her only comfoft now to think
Upon the grave. 'Poor girl!' her mother said,
'Thou hast suffered much!' 'aye mother! there is none
'Can tell what I have suffered!' she replied,
'But I shall soon be where the weary rest.'
And she did rest her soon, for it pleased God
To take her to his mercy.
I thought if I took the flowers home
Flowers from a funeral
For a friend
A friend whose face
Looked unfamiliar
Unaware I was even there
Unsure if she'd really care
For cotton candy carnations
Lavender last goodbyes
A burly man carried
The carefully concocted
Cascades of colorful blooms
Close to the dumpster
The day after
He, disconnected from the despair
That dangled about my thoughts
But thought well enough
To stop long enough
To catch my stare
And spare the sprigs and sprays
Of fresh freesia
From the squashing stench
Of the sanitation truck's crunching
And handed them over to me
Like presenting a beauty queen
Her lavish winning bouquet
At home, with the  hum
Of a well working furnace
I put forth gallant  effort
Picking  purple plumes
From the florist's
Generic green foam
That held her final farewell
Gathered, I did in diligent work
Each vase from a collection of years
And brought to tears
Thinking if I watered them well
Placed beneath the light
Of my favorite window sill
Their fragrance to fill
My sadly lit room
Maybe, just maybe she'd stay
Awhile, share one more smile
Before being ready to say goodbye
Even the most beautiful bouquets
Wither wilt and die
I am standing at your funeral
Ready to say good bye
I am standing here
Ready to cry
Memories for me to recall
Of my first ball
Climbing tall  trees
Skined up knees
Swinging High
Touching the sky
When I returned
Your arms were there
Wraping me
With warmth comfort and care.
I am wondering why
This could'nt last?
Ending Days
Of my childhood past
Grave site train
Tears turn to  torrid rain
Good bye mother
There never will be another
Sadness is my care
My heart has a tear..
Outside waiting funeral hearse,
Taking from me, without coerce,
Your touch is far away
Angels guiding your way.
A day to say I am sorry
A day to say I love you
A day filled with unending feelings
A day filled with chocked emotions
Yielding myself to showers of tears
The shortness of life yields to death
Not allowing us to gauge every friendship
Not allowing us to give thanks for the memories
Giving us to retain
The Mythical
The magical
Thought of all this
But can I feel solemnity
A voice screams
Tribute Tribute
Inside of me
The screaming battles
With the burning devils from hell
Cannot be heard
Pacify me and cool my thoughts
With your comfort
The place where you will go
Absence of conflict and strife
The sun will shine again
Leaving behind the black and white
Vivid colors of an intangible arch
Stemming from the last down pour of tears
A distant rainbow belonging to you
Begging me to run through
Fickle threads catching
Raining colors of your love
From your absence
Voids, hollowness, and distressed wounds
Are being stitched shut
Smoothing healing balm
Covers like a blanket
Keeping you alive within me forever.
There was a dead bird on the grass,
Next to the sidewalk.
It's life had fled, somewhere up high,
Higher than it could ever have hoped to fly,
Into the infinite.
The twisted neck, the half shut eyes,
The wings outstretched,
As if, only, one final time,
They could lift him high and away,
From all Earthly dangers.
For some reason I envisioned,
In my minds eye,
The sweet little bird flying,
Headlong into the telephone wire,
Dying instantly, painlessly.
For other than the twisted neck,
There were no signs of violence,
On it's fragile avian body.
Only a few feathers,
Scattered ignominiously around.
Then a terrible, and inexplicable sadness,
Completely overwhelmed me.
And my body started to shake,
And from somewhere deep inside my soul my, very being,
A sob wrenched itself loose.
I could not in all honesty explain this.
Was it that I would never hear,
Him sing his songs?
Or dive bomb a cat,
While eying him meticulously from a limb.
Or was it just the obscene way,
That he was lying splayed on the grass.
Feathers all askew,
His toes curled up in the throes of death,
The neck twisted at an impossible angle.
But the merciful wind, in it's infinite wisdom,
Had blown a paper bag up against the fence.
This then, became the mockingbirds coffin.
And his funeral procession lead straight to my backyard.
As one last time, he visited his neighborhood.
There underneath a hackberry tree,
Filled with the berries,
That his folk love so much,
His broken little body nestled,
Into the welcoming arms of the Earth.
I would be a liar, if I said, I knew what made me,
Bring him home, to rest eternally, in the shade,
Of my hackberry tree.
But God knows, I was so happy and glad,
I could do that for him.
And today, after the passing of so many years,
There are many such trees,
All around my home.
And it seems that every single limb, is filled,
With carefree, sweet, singing mockingbirds.
2/4/12 Alton Texas
It's the one thing I can't rehearse
The final act where I have no lines
Or watch the audience in the isles
Complain of my performance in the role
And sneer derision that he looks so old
All powdered up and decked in mould
For one day they'll stand at their own curtains end
Being chewed by the flowers of their final applause
So long to the critics I can't hear you judge
Your despondent analysis of my really great lead
The only lead I ever had
In a role that I was born to play
In a role that I was born uncertain
Sitting there won't be so lonely
All cushioned up in velvet lining
Draped in mahogany chesterfield sachet
Escorted somewhere near the Hamptons
I'll be lead by strong men in maître d' form
Perhaps a young splendor will pass me a glance
While I'm indisposed to my own private table
Starring with thoughts that can't see conclusion
They'll be other occupants arranged in their seats
No one will see the others fatigue
Celebrating forever at our retire leisure
In a Funeral for one
And party that's just begun
Dust unto dust,
To this all must;
The tenant hath resign'd
The faded form To waste and worm-
Corruption claims her kind.
Through paths unknown
Thy soul hath flown,
To seek the realms of woe,
Where fiery pain
Shall purge the stain
Of actions done below.
In that sad place,
By Mary's grace,
Brief may thy dwelling be
Till prayers and alms,
And holy psalms,
Shall set the captive free.
march my soldiers march!
today is that day
feel like its you who died
for the best of us has left
march my soldiers march!
today is that day
when we pay for our silence
when we fail ourselves
march my soldiers march!
they strike us like dumb dogs
we are sitting ducks with a dead conscience
march my soldiers march!
we fall around like flies around fire
as we seek refuge in dark like alley rats
march my soldiers march!
with a single button finger they break our worlds
with a jihadi heart they spit blasphemous words
march my soldiers march!
see our brother's blood
is it redder than ours?
march my soldiers march!
don't you dare be sad
don't you dare cry
don't you dare forget
march my soldiers march!
today is that day
today our brother's soul rests in peace
today is the day we avenge our brothers
today is the day we make peace
today is the day we go to war
William de la Pole, Duke of Suffolk: beheaded 1450
John Tiptoft, Earl of Worcester: beheaded 1470
Anthony Woodville, Earl Rivers: beheaded 1483
1
Processionals in the exemplary cave,
Benediction of shadows. Pomfret. London.
The voice fragrant with mannered humility,
With an equable contempt for this world,
‘In honorem Trinitatis’. Crash. The head
Struck down into a meaty conduit of blood.
So these dispose themselves to receive each
Pentecostal blow from axe or seraph,
Spattering block-straw with mortal residue.
Psalteries whine through the empyrean. Fire
Flares in the pit, ghosting upon stone
Creatures of such rampant state, vacuous
Ceremony of possession, restless
Habitation, no man’s dwelling-place.
2
For whom do we scrape our tribute of pain—
For none but the ritual king? We meditate
A rueful mystery; we are dying
To satisfy fat Caritas, those
Wiped jaws of stone. (Suppose all reconciled
By silent music; imagine the future
Flashed back at us, like steel against sun,
Ultimate recompense.) Recall the cold
Of Towton on Palm Sunday before dawn,
Wakefield, Tewkesbury: fastidious trumpets
Shrilling into the ruck; some trampled
Acres, parched, sodden or blanched by sleet,
Stuck with strange-postured dead. Recall the wind’s
Flurrying, darkness over the human mire.
3
They bespoke doomsday and they meant it by
God, their curved metal rimming the low ridge.
But few appearances are like this. Once
Every five hundred years a comet’s
Over-riding stillness might reveal men
In such array, livid and featureless,
With England crouched beastwise beneath it all.
‘Oh, that old northern business …’ A field
After battle utters its own sound
Which is like nothing on earth, but is earth.
Blindly the questing snail, vulnerable
Mole emerge, blindly we lie down, blindly
Among carnage the most delicate souls
Tup in their marriage-blood, gasping ‘Jesus’.
4
Let mind be more precious than soul; it will not
Endure. Soul grasps its price, begs its own peace,
Settles with tears and sweat, is possibly
Indestructible. That I can believe.
Though I would scorn the mere instinct of faith,
Expediency of assent, if I dared,
What I dare not is a waste history
Or void rule. Averroes, old heathen,
If only you had been right, if Intellect
Itself were absolute law, sufficient grace,
Our lives could be a myth of captivity
Which we might enter: an unpeopled region
Of ever new-fallen snow, a palace blazing
With perpetual silence as with torches.
5
As with torches we go, at wild Christmas,
When we revel in our atonement
Through thirty feasts of unction and slaughter,
What is that but the soul’s winter sleep?
So many things rest under consummate
Justice as though trumpets purified law,
Spikenard were the real essence of remorse.
The sky gathers up darkness. When we chant
‘Ora, ora pro nobis’ it is not
Seraphs who descend to pity but ourselves.
Those righteously-accused those vengeful
Racked on articulate looms indulge us
With lingering shows of pain, a flagrant
Tenderness of the damned for their own flesh:
6
My little son, when you could command marvels
Without mercy, outstare the wearisome
Dragon of sleep, I rejoiced above all—
A stranger well-received in your kingdom.
On those pristine fields I saw humankind
As it was named by the Father; fabulous
Beasts rearing in stillness to be blessed.
The world’s real cries reached there, turbulence
From remote storms, rumour of solitudes,
A composed mystery. And so it ends.
Some parch for what they were; others are made
Blind to all but one vision, their necessity
To be reconciled. I believe in my
Abandonment, since it is what I have.
7
‘Prowess, vanity, mutual regard,
It seemed I stared at them, they at me.
That was the gorgon’s true and mortal gaze:
Averted conscience turned against itself.’
A hawk and a hawk-shadow. ‘At noon,
As the armies met, each mirrored the other;
Neither was outshone. So they flashed and vanished
And all that survived them was the stark ground
Of this pain. I made no sound, but once
I stiffened as though a remote cry
Had heralded my name. It was nothing …’
Reddish ice tinged the reeds; dislodged, a few
Feathers drifted across; carrion birds
Strutted upon the armour of the dead.
8
Not as we are but as we must appear,
Contractual ghosts of pity; not as we
Desire life but as they would have us live,
Set apart in timeless colloquy.
So it is required; so we bear witness,
Despite ourselves, to what is beyond us,
Each distant sphere of harmony forever
Poised, unanswerable. If it is without
Consequence when we vaunt and suffer, or
If it is not, all echoes are the same
In such eternity. Then tell me, love,
How that should comfort us—or anyone
Dragged half-unnerved out of this worldly place,
Crying to the end ‘I have not finished’.
Three years ago, I passed a little church
While I walked on my way
Sorrow rang out from the steeple bells
As in the cemetery a group of people gathered
I stopped to watch for a moment
A small coffin being carried to the graveside
Where soon it would be laid
The priest stood beside it and slowly said
“The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away
We commit this child into the arms of the Lord
For his safe keeping for ever and ever
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.”
At the graveside I could see in the scene
A young girl about nineteen and young man about twenty one
Both were heartbroken because it was their child
Their one any only son
Being laid to rest, but never to be forgotten
I turned to go on my way, when I saw from the grave
A stairway to the sky appear
On each step an angel stood all looking young and fair
I stood astonished for a while
As up the stairs walked a child
From that day to this I wonder all the time
What was the meaning of this sign
(Date written unknown)
I saw a long funeral
a dead ant being carried
in a long queue.
It was quite placable
some were exchanging shoulder
It was the last moment
to pay homage to the departed soul
I  too prayed for the departed soul
Rest in peace!
XiaoKang Ma
Section 1
Sadness falls as a meteor
Dry the last drop of tear
Desperation, the iron chains
To tie everyone's throat deadly
Brief tortures brief
There is no place for salvation
On the land abandoned by God
In the East, in the East -
Before A hundred years ago
The wind blows the horn
The crow encourages us to commit suicide
Tortoise tries to wake the land up
He is too slow, too slow-
To find the ear of land
Flood water is coming!
Coming from east of the east
Judgment-Day, isn’t it?
To foretell the future
To wait for angry of God
To trouble in huge seas
Now, everyone on this land
Pick up the shovel
Get ready to bury, bury this century
Digging out the truth and false
Never stop! Until we bury ourselves
when the blood is flying in the night
Twinkled is nothing but eye of Satan
Drizzle, Drizzle-
Moisten the thirsty throat selflessly
And expand them inside the chains
Flower breaks off blooming
Grass are ready to be trampled
The sea carries floor water-
In silent tribute with anger and killing
Fly in the sky
Float down the wave
Fell into the ground
A red night, A red night
Funeral Of Century（2）
LOL. I hope my english will be better than in (1) .
East coast, Tsunami rushed like wolves
Cloudburst was the flag, then
here the ceremony of funeral started
Holy water to wash all sin was the flood
To clean the evil in past
and share the guitly in future
Righteous were willing to die for salvation
but the Lord lost his patience
Curse falled down with rain to the world
Ancient Civilization, To be buryed or submerged
To be baptized the world
Cry and cry, scream again scream
No Noah's Ark to be found
East coast, people still intoxicated
Resentment, To feed the demon stronger
The ghostes drunk like a fish
with the heavy punch smashed they run away
Puppets still not noticed the dangerous
Condor wheeled in the air above the upcoming food
Shrug, dreariness as well as dismal
The magic song flew from faraway -
for last time of the earth
for last time of the day
Ancient Civilization, To be buryed or submerged
To be baptized the world
Cry and cry, scream again scream
No Noah's Ark to be found
The day that YOUTH had died,
There came to his grave-side,
In decent mourning, from the country's ends,
Those scatter'd friends
Who had lived the boon companions of his prime,
And laughed with him and sung with him and wasted,
In feast and wine and many-crown'd carouse,
The days and nights and dawnings of the time
When YOUTH kept open house,
Nor left untasted
Aught of his high emprise and ventures dear,
No quest of his unshar'd --
All these, with loitering feet and sad head bar'd,
Followed their old friend's bier.
FOLLY went first,
With muffled bells and coxcomb still revers'd;
And after trod the bearers, hat in hand --
LAUGHTER, most hoarse, and Captain PRIDE with tanned
And martial face all grim, and fussy JOY,
Who had to catch a train, and LUST, poor, snivelling boy;
These bore the dear departed.
Behind them, broken-hearted,
Came GRIEF, so noisy a widow, that all said,
"Had he but wed
Her elder sister SORROW, in her stead!"
And by her, trying to soothe her all the time,
The fatherless children, COLOUR, TUNE, and RHYME
(The sweet lad RHYME), ran all-uncomprehending.
Then, at the way's sad ending,
Round the raw grave they stay'd.  Old WISDOM read,
In mumbling tone, the Service for the Dead.
There stood ROMANCE,
The furrowing tears had mark'd her rouged cheek;
Poor old CONCEIT, his wonder unassuaged;
Dead INNOCENCY's daughter, IGNORANCE;
And shabby, ill-dress'd GENEROSITY;
And ARGUMENT, too full of woe to speak;
PASSION, grown portly, something middle-aged;
And FRIENDSHIP -- not a minute older, she;
IMPATIENCE, ever taking out his watch;
FAITH, who was deaf, and had to lean, to catch
Old WISDOM's endless drone.
BEAUTY was there,
Pale in her black; dry-eyed; she stood alone.
Poor maz'd IMAGINATION; FANCY wild;
ARDOUR, the sunlight on his greying hair;
CONTENTMENT, who had known YOUTH as a child
And never seen him since.  And SPRING came too,
Dancing over the tombs, and brought him flowers --
She did not stay for long.
And TRUTH, and GRACE, and all the merry crew,
The laughing WINDS and RIVERS, and lithe HOURS;
And HOPE, the dewy-eyed; and sorrowing SONG; --
Yes, with much woe and mourning general,
At dead YOUTH's funeral,
Even these were met once more together, all,
Who erst the fair and living YOUTH did know;
All, except only LOVE.  LOVE had died long ago.
The death, end of the life journey
But not the end itself
The joining of self to the universe
The place of oblivion we can't explain.
The body after death, a corpse
To be cremated in such an honor
The self, soul and their activities
For which the body functioned hitherto.
A funeral pyre we makes
For its destruction on bodily matters
The final destiny it follows
Where it becomes flames and ashes.
Funeral in varied customs and beliefs
Changes of methods and things are one
The final journey must be in calm
without a return and repetition of the same.
Honor the death, the will of god
Your actions and life events are reckoned
And matters to the humans
Let the final journey come when it destines.
In a calm and perfect time like a ripe leaf.
.
It was first experience
I had to attend funeral procession at once
Someone had died due to heart attack
Entire road leading to crematorium was packed
“If you do not attend” father snarled
None would sent
Their family members
As dead body carriers
It is tradition for all relatives and friend
To carry dead body one by one till end
Lay body on cremation ground
Large numbers of people are always found
The body is put on funeral pyre
Given ignition to fire woods
The body catches fire in no time
It is reduced to ashes with little time
I was young and student
I had never been present in such procession
I though” what an end to final journey”
When we are carried away back to an almighty
men in black,
women also.
I've seen them a couple of times
since I was a kid,
and some more
till I die.
I want to have my funeral
But first I need to die
But not an ordinary death
You see
I want one filled of surprise
One death that no one would expect
One that’ll beat the rest
Of the
Out of the ordinary deaths
A death that will show the pain I hide
One that will make people tremble inside
To see that a little girl could hide
So much trouble and hate inside her mind
One that’ll have me on a bed
With rose petals all around my head
My wrist all cut up at the vein
A death that’ll make me look insane
It’ll have them saying
“maybe she hit her head”
For the death expressed too much
And set a feeling of depressed
Maybe a death
That’ll have written on my chest
All the things that “you knew best”
All the things I failed to see
Because they never were facing me
A death is called a tragedy
But not when nobody can see
That the tragedy was meant to be
Like the sun is meant to set each day
And how the moon never seems to stay
So tonight I will toast at your funeral.
Because we knew this wouldn’t end well.
Lately I’ve began to look and see.
That we are lost in our own history.
Times will change and lives will spend
Harvests will come and wounds shall mend
Hearts will blaze with the past no more,
We’ll seek the future, but it wont come
I ask for peace yet receive none,
And now the present has come undone
Now time has shown itself to be a demon that’s cursed
And yet we know that we still haven’t seen the worst.
I walked along and couldn’t tell
That my sorrow dies with every word.
Truthfully is say no more, and with a smile I toast….at your funeral.
at this T-junction
black ants file in unison
to pay their respects
© 2016
You told me the song to play at your funeral
As if I can think that far ahead
I haven't even held your hand
or kissed your face
ran my fingers through your hair
or trailed them down your chest
i've never looked in your eyes
and told you that i love you
your touch I've never felt
nor the warmth of your body on mine
But you told me the song to play at your funeral
A grand assumption don't you think
Around Sebago's lonely lake
There lingers not a breeze to break
The mirror which its waters make.
The solemn pines along its shore,
The firs which hang its gray rocks o'er,
Are painted on its glassy floor.
The sun looks o'er, with hazy eye,
The snowy mountain-tops which lie
Piled coldly up against the sky.
Dazzling and white! save where the bleak,
Wild winds have bared some splintering peak,
Or snow-slide left its dusky streak.
Yet green are Saco's banks below,
And belts of spruce and cedar show,
Dark fringing round those cones of snow.
The earth hath felt the breath of spring,
Though yet on her deliverer's wing
The lingering frosts of winter cling.
Fresh grasses fringe the meadow-brooks,
And mildly from its sunny nooks
The blue eye of the violet looks.
And odors from the springing grass,
The sweet birch and the sassafras,
Upon the scarce-felt breezes pass.
Her tokens of renewing care
Hath Nature scattered everywhere,
In bud and flower, and warmer air.
But in their hour of bitterness,
What reek the broken Sokokis,
Beside their slaughtered chief, of this?
The turf's red stain is yet undried,
Scarce have the death-shot echoes died
Along Sebago's wooded side;
And silent now the hunters stand,
Grouped darkly, where a swell of land
Slopes upward from the lake's white sand.
Fire and the axe have swept it bare,
Save one lone beech, unclosing there
Its light leaves in the vernal air.
With grave, cold looks, all sternly mute,
They break the damp turf at its foot,
And bare its coiled and twisted root.
They heave the stubborn trunk aside,
The firm roots from the earth divide,--
The rent beneath yawns dark and wide.
And there the fallen chief is laid,
In tasselled garb of skins arrayed,
And girded with his wampum-braid.
The silver cross he loved is pressed
Beneath the heavy arms, which rest
Upon his scarred and naked breast.
'T is done: the roots are backward sent,
The beechen-tree stands up unbent,
The Indian's fitting monument!
When of that sleeper's broken race
Their green and pleasant dwelling-place,
Which knew them once, retains no trace;
Oh, long may sunset's light be shed
As now upon that beech's head,
A green memorial of the dead!
There shall his fitting requiem be,
In northern winds, that, cold and free,
Howl nightly in that funeral tree.
To their wild wail the waves which break
Forever round that lonely lake
A solemn undertone shall make!
And who shall deem the spot unblest,
Where Nature's younger children rest,
Lulled on their sorrowing mother's breast?
Deem ye that mother loveth less
These bronzed forms of the wilderness
She foldeth in her long caress?
As sweet o'er them her wild-flowers blow,
As if with fairer hair and brow
The blue-eyed Saxon slept below.
What though the places of their rest
No priestly knee hath ever pressed,--
No funeral rite nor prayer hath blessed?
What though the bigot's ban be there,
And thoughts of wailing and despair,
And cursing in the place of prayer.
Yet Heaven hath angels watching round
The Indian's lowliest forest-mound,--
And they have made it holy ground.
There ceases man's frail judgment; all
His powerless bolts of cursing fall
Unheeded on that grassy pall.
O peeled and hunted and reviled,
Sleep on, dark tenant of the wild!
Great Nature owns her simple child!
And Nature's God, to whom alone
The secret of the heart is known,--
The hidden language traced thereon;
Who from its many cumberings
Of form and creed, and outward things,
To light the naked spirit brings;
Not with our partial eye shall scan,
Not with our pride and scorn shall ban,
The spirit of our brother man!
I attended mass at church this morning
This was a funeral mass for Mr Jim.
He was blessed with excellent longevity.
Joining him at church were his wife,
his grand children and great grandchildren.
They bid him farewell for his journey to heaven.
He was cremated and he became ashes.
He didn't need time for his body to decay.
Funeral van didn't carry his coffin
All of his remain was contained in a little urn.
After being buried in the cemetery by his family
All that was left of him are his ashes in his urn.
12292015
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Translation of Vietnamese poem Xe Tang Không Có Quan Tài of
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
XE TANG KHÔNG CÓ QUAN TÀI
Hôm nay dự lễ nhà thờ
Lễ này là lễ cầu hồn ông Jim
Ông này tuổi thọ khá cao
Vợ con, cháu chắt, tiễn ông về trời.
Không cần chờ tháng năm trôi
Xác ông đã đốt, thành tro than rồi.
Xe tang không có quan tài
Chỉ một hộp nhỏ, ông là nắm tro.
Gia đình đưa tiễn ông xong
Nghĩa trang ông ở, nắm tro để đời.
12292015
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
I
I saw a slowly-stepping train --
Lined on the brows, scoop-eyed and bent and hoar --
Following in files across a twilit plain
A strange and mystic form the foremost bore.
II
And by contagious throbs of thought
Or latent knowledge that within me lay
And had already stirred me, I was wrought
To consciousness of sorrow even as they.
III
The fore-borne shape, to my blurred eyes,
At first seemed man-like, and anon to change
To an amorphous cloud of marvellous size,
At times endowed with wings of glorious range.
IV
And this phantasmal variousness
Ever possessed it as they drew along:
Yet throughout all it symboled none the less
Potency vast and loving-kindness strong.
V
Almost before I knew I bent
Towards the moving columns without a word;
They, growing in bulk and numbers as they went,
Struck out sick thoughts that could be overheard: --
VI
'O man-projected Figure, of late
Imaged as we, thy knell who shall survive?
Whence came it we were tempted to create
One whom we can no longer keep alive?
VII
'Framing him jealous, fierce, at first,
We gave him justice as the ages rolled,
Will to bless those by circumstance accurst,
And longsuffering, and mercies manifold.
VIII
'And, tricked by our own early dream
And need of solace, we grew self-deceived,
Our making soon our maker did we deem,
And what we had imagined we believed,
IX
'Till, in Time's stayless stealthy swing,
Uncompromising rude reality
Mangled the Monarch of our fashioning,
Who quavered, sank; and now has ceased to be.
X
'So, toward our myth's oblivion,
Darkling, and languid-lipped, we creep and grope
Sadlier than those who wept in Babylon,
Whose Zion was a still abiding hope.
XI
'How sweet it was in years far hied
To start the wheels of day with trustful prayer,
To lie down liegely at the eventide
And feel a blest assurance he was there!
XII
'And who or what shall fill his place?
Whither will wanderers turn distracted eyes
For some fixed star to stimulate their pace
Towards the goal of their enterprise?'...
XIII
Some in the background then I saw,
Sweet women, youths, men, all incredulous,
Who chimed as one: 'This is figure is of straw,
This requiem mockery! Still he lives to us!'
XIV
I could not prop their faith: and yet
Many I had known: with all I sympathized;
And though struck speechless, I did not forget
That what was mourned for, I, too, once had prized.
XV
Still, how to bear such loss I deemed
The insistent question for each animate mind,
And gazing, to my growing sight there seemed
A pale yet positive gleam low down behind,
XVI
Whereof, to lift the general night,
A certain few who stood aloof had said,
'See you upon the horizon that small light --
Swelling somewhat?' Each mourner shook his head.
XVII
And they composed a crowd of whom
Some were right good, and many nigh the best....
Thus dazed and puzzled 'twixt the gleam and gloom
Mechanically I followed with the rest.
A WAIL was heard around the bed, the death-bed of the young,
Amidst her tears the Funeral Chant a mournful mother sung.
-'Ianthis! dost thou sleep?-Thou sleep'st!-but this is not the rest,
The breathing and the rosy calm, I have pillow'd on my breast!
I lull'd thee not to this repose, Ianthis! my sweet son!
As in thy glowing childhood's time by twilight I have done!
-How is it that I bear to stand and look upon thee now?
And that I die not, seeing death on thy pale glorious brow?
'I look upon thee, thou that wert of all most fair and brave!
I see thee wearing still too much of beauty for the grave!
Though mournfully thy smile is fix'd, and heavily thine eye
Hath shut above the falcon-glance that in it lov'd to lie;
And fast is bound the springing step, that seem'd on breezes borne,
When to thy couch I came and said,-'Wake, hunter, wake! 'tis morn!'
Yet art thou lovely still, my flower! untouch'd by slow decay,
-And I, the wither'd stem remain-I would that grief might slay!
'Oh! ever when I met thy look, I knew that this would be!
I knew too well that length of days was not a gift for thee!
I saw it in thy kindling cheek, and in thy bearing high;-
A voice came whispering to my soul, and told me thou must die!
That thou must die, my fearless one! where swords were flashing red.-
-Why doth a mother live to say-my first-born and my dead?
They tell me of thy youthful fame, they talk of victory won-
-Speak thou, and I will hear! my child, Ianthis! my sweet son!'
A wail was heard around the bed, the deathbed of the young,
A fair-hair'd bride the Funeral Chant amidst her weeping sung.
-'Ianthis! look'st thou not on me? -Can love indeed be fled?
When was it woe before to gaze upon thy stately head?
I would that I had follow'd thee, Ianthis, my belov'd!
And stood as woman oft hath stood where faithful hearts are prov'd!
That I had bound a breastplate on, and battled at thy side-
-It would have been a blessed thing together had we died!
'But where was I when thou didst fall beneath the fatal sword?
Was I beside the sparkling fount, or at the peaceful board?
Or singing some sweet song of old, in the shadow of the vine,
Or praying to the saints for thee, before the holy shrine?
And thou wert lying low the while, the life-drops from thy heart
Fast gushing like a mountain-spring!-and couldst thou thus depart?
Couldst thou depart, nor on my lips pour out thy fleeting breath?
-Oh! I was with thee but in joy, that should have been in death!
'Yes! I was with thee when the dance through mazy rings was led,
And when the lyre and voice were tun'd, and when the feast was spread;
But not where noble blood flow'd forth, where sounding javelins flew-
-Why did I hear love's first sweet words, and not its last adieu?
What now can breathe of gladness more, what scene, what hour, what tone?
The blue skies fade with all their lights, they fade, since thou art gone!
Ev'n that must leave me, that still face, by all my tears unmov'd-
-Take me from this dark world with thee, Ianthis! my belov'd!'
A wail was heard around the bed, the death-bed of the young,
Amidst her tears the Funeral Chant a mournful sister sung.
'Ianthis! brother of my soul!-oh! where are now the days
That laugh'd among the deep green hills, on all our infant plays?
When we two sported by the streams, or track'd them to their source,
And like a stag's, the rocks along, was thy fleet fearless course!
-I see the pines there waving yet, I see the rills descend,
I see thy bounding step no more-my brother and my friend!
'I come with flowers-for spring is come!-Ianthis! art thou here?
I bring the garlands she hath brought, I cast them on thy bier!
Thou shouldst be crown'd with victory's crown-but oh! more meet they seem,
The first faint violets of the wood, and lilies of the stream!
More meet for one so fondly lov'd, and laid thus early low-
-Alas! how sadly sleeps thy face amidst the sunshine's glow:
The golden glow that through thy heart was wont such joy to send,
-Woe, that it smiles, and not for thee!-my brother and my friend!'
Bright day of autumn, springing
Morning dews thin out, how pleasant it
Is to make last journey…….
APRIL 29, 1874
SUNG BY MALE VOICES TO A NATIONAL AIR OF HOLLAND
ONCE more, ye sacred towers,
Your solemn dirges sound;
Strew, loving hands, the April flowers,
Once more to deck his mound.
A nation mourns its dead,
Its sorrowing voices one,
As Israel's monarch bowed his head
And cried, 'My son! My son!'
Why mourn for him?--For him
The welcome angel came
Ere yet his eye with age was dim
Or bent his stately frame;
His weapon still was bright,
His shield was lifted high
To slay the wrong, to save the right,--
What happier hour to die?
Thou orderest all things well;
Thy servant's work was done;
He lived to hear Oppression's knell,
The shouts for Freedom won.
Hark!! from the opening skies
The anthem's echoing swell,--
'O mourning Land, lift up thine eyes!
God reigneth. All is well!'
I felt a Funeral, in my Brain,
And Mourners to and fro
Kept treading--treading--till it seemed
That Sense was breaking through--
And when they all were seated,
A Service, like a Drum--
Kept beating--beating--till I thought
My Mind was going numb--
And then I heard them lift a Box
And creak across my Soul
With those same Boots of Lead, again,
Then Space--began to toll,
As all the Heavens were a Bell,
And Being, but an Ear,
And I, and Silence, some strange Race
Wrecked, solitary, here--
And then a Plank in Reason, broke,
And I dropped down, and down--
And hit a World, at every plunge,
And Finished knowing--then--
Eighty years of life
on this Earth
Was it worth?
I had a thought on your funeral.
Eighty years ago in heaven
when you were just the soul
and wanted to forever become
a part of this whole
You urged God to grant you a life
And promised
you would this time achieve your goal
But did you keep your promise at all?
I had a thought on your funeral.
The aim of your taking birth was
Service, contribution and asceticism
You instead chose
Hoarding, platitude and hedonism
God prescribed
Love, joy and compassion
On your life you inscribed
Jealousy, gloom and repression
I had a thought on your funeral.
Childhood’s dawn wiped out in dependence
Lust devoured on the morning of adolescence
Youth’s noon you squandered
due to fear and apprehension
Dusk of old age got totaled in
egotism, vanity and pretension
I had a thought on your funeral.
I asked myself
Was I any different from you?
Was I keeping my own promise to God?
The response from within came in negative
My heart did not give the nod
Seeing you sleeping in God’s lap
with a performance that was dismal
Your funeral appeared to me
as God’s signal
And I realized I had a chance to change
before I reached my own burial.
I had a thought on your funeral.
(30.08.2011; New Delhi; India)
Lilacs at my funeral
Lilacs when I’m dead
Lilacs in my coffin
Placed gently by my head
Lilacs at my funeral
Lilacs when I’m gone
Lilacs to help send me
On my journey home
Lilacs at my funeral
Lilacs for my grave
Lilacs instead of roses
Think of the money you will save
1978
www.dakotaraeaustin.com
And now the bell, - the bell
She had so often heard by night and day
And listened to with solemn pleasure,
E'en as a living voice, -
Rung its remorseless toll for her,
So young, so beautiful, so good.
Decrepit age, and vigorous life,
And blooming youth, and helpless infancy,
Poured forth, - on crutches, in the pride of strength
And health, in the full blush
Of promise, the mere dawn of life, -
To gather round her tomb. Old men were there,
Whose eyes were dim
And senses failing, -
Grandames, who might have died ten years ago,
And still been old, - the deaf, the blind, the lame,
The palsied,
The living dead in many shapes and forms,
To see the closing of this early grave.
What was the death it would shut in,
To that which still could crawl and keep above it!
Along the crowded path they bore her now;
Pure as the new fallen snow
That covered it; whose day on earth
Had been as fleeting.
Under that porch, where she had sat when Heaven
In mercy brought her to that peaceful spot,
She passed again, and the old church
Received her in its quiet shade.
They carried her to one old nook,
Where she had many and many a time sat musing,
And laid their burden softly on the pavement.
The light streamed on it through
The colored window, - a window where the boughs
Of trees were ever rustling
In the summer, and where the birds
Sang sweetly all day long.
The death of Duryodhan concludes the war, and it is followed by
the lament of women and the funerals of the deceased warriors.
I
Kuru Women visit the Battle-field
Spake the ancient Dhrita-rashtra, father of a hundred sons,
Sonless now and sorrow-stricken, dark his ebbing life-tide runs!
'Gods fulfil my life's last wishes! Henchmen, yoke my royal car,
Dhrita-rashtra meets his princes in the silent field of war,
Speed unto the Queen Gandhari, to the dames of Kuru's house,
To each dear departed warrior wends his fair and faithful spouse!'
Queen Gandhari sorrow-laden with the ancient Pritha came,
And each weeping widowed princess and each wailing childless dame,
And they saw the hoary monarch, father of a perished race,
Fresh and loud awoke their sorrow, welling tears suffused their face,
Good Vidura ever gentle whispered comfort unto all,
Placed the dames within their chariots, left Hastina's palace hall!
Loud the wail of woe and sorrow rose from every Kuru house,
Children wept beside their mothers for each widowed royal spouse,
Veiled dwellers of the palace, scarce the gods their face had seen,
Heedless now through mart and city sped each widowed childless queen,
From their royal brow and bosom gem and jewel cast aside,
Loose their robes and loose their tresses, quenched their haughty queenly
pride!
So when falls the antlered monarch, struck by woe and sudden fear
Issuing from their snowy mountains listless stray the dappled deer,
So upon the broad arena milk-white fillies brave the sun,
Wildly toss their flowing tresses and in sad disorder run!
Clinging to her weeping sister wept each dame in cureless pain,
For the lord, the son or father in the deathful battle slain,
Wept and smote her throbbing bosom and in bitter anguish wailed,
Till her senses reeled in sorrow, till her woman's reason failed!
Veiled queens and bashful maidens, erst they shunned the public eye,
Blush nor shame suffused their faces as they passed the city by,
Gentle-bosomed, kindly hearted, erst they wiped each other's eye,
Now by common sorrow laden none for sister heaved a sigh!
With this troop of wailing women, deep in woe, disconsolate,
Slow the monarch of the Kurus passed Hastina's outer gate,
Men from stall and loom and anvil, men of every guild and trade,
Left the city with the monarch, through the open country strayed,
And a universal sorrow filled the air and answering sky,
As when ends the mortal's _Yuga_ and the end of world is nigh!
II
Gandhari's Lament for the Slain
Stainless Queen and stainless woman, ever righteous ever good,
Stately in her mighty sorrow on the field Gandhari stood!
Strewn with skulls and clotted tresses, darkened by the stream of gore,
With the limbs of countless warriors was the red field covered o'er,
Elephants and steeds of battle, car-borne chiefs untimely slain,
Headless trunks and heads dissevered fill the red and ghastly plain!
And the long-drawn howl of jackals o'er the scene of carnage rings,
And the vulture and the raven flap their dark and loathsome wings,
Feasting on the blood of warriors foul _pisachas_ fill the air,
Viewless forms of hungry _rakshas_ limb from limb the corpses tear!
Through this scene of death and carnage was the ancient monarch led,
Kuru dames with faltering footsteps stepped amidst the countless dead,
And a piercing wail of anguish burst upon the echoing plain,
As they saw their sons or fathers, brothers, lords, amidst the slain,
As they saw the wolves of jungle feed upon the destined prey,
Darksome wanderers of the midnight prowling in the light of day!
Shriek of pain and wail of anguish o'er the ghastly field resound,
And their feeble footsteps falter and they sink upon the ground,
Sense and life desert the mourners as they faint in common grief,
Death-like swoon succeeding sorrow yields a moment's short relief!
Then a mighty sigh of anguish from Gandhari's bosom broke,
Gazing on her anguished daughters unto Krishna thus she spoke:
'Mark my unconsoled daughters, widowed queens of Kuru's house,
Wailing for their dear departed, like the osprey for her spouse!
How each cold and fading feature wakes in them a woman's love,
How amidst the lifeless warriors still with restless steps they rove,
Mothers hug their slaughtered children all unconscious in their sleep,
Widows bend upon their husbands and in ceaseless sorrow weep!
Mighty Bhishma, hath he fallen? quenched is archer Karna's pride?
Drupad monarch of Panchala sleeps by foeman Drona's side?
Shining mail and costly jewels, royal bangles strew the plain,
Golden garlands rich and burnished deck the chiefs untimely slain,
Lances hurled by stalwart fighters, clubs of mighty wrestlers killed,
Swords and bows of ample measure, quivers still with arrows filled!
Mark the unforgotten heroes, jungle prowlers 'mid them stray,
On their brow and mailed bosoms heedless perch the birds of prey!
Mark they great unconquered heroes famed on earth from west to east,
_Kankas_ perch upon their foreheads, hungry wolves upon them feast!
Mark the kings, on softest cushion scarce the needed rest they found,
Now they lie in peaceful slumber on the hard and reddened ground!
Mark the youths who morn and evening listed to the minstrel's song,
In their ear the loathsome jackal doth his doleful wail prolong!
See the chieftains with their maces and their swords of trusty steel,
Still they grasp their tried weapons,--do they still the life-pulse feel?'
III
Gandhari's Lament for Duryodhan
Thus to Krishna, Queen Gandhari strove her woeful thoughts to tell,
When alas! her wandering vision on her son Duryodhan fell,
Sudden anguish smote her bosom and her senses seemed to stray,
Like a tree by tempest shaken senseless on the earth she lay!
Once again she waked in sorrow, once again she cast her eye
Where her son in blood empurpled slept beneath the open sky,
And she clasped her dear Duryodhan, held him close unto her breast,
Sobs convulsive shook her bosom as the lifeless form she prest,
And her tears like rains of summer fell and washed his noble head,
Decked with garlands still untarnished, graced with _nishkas_ bright
and red!
''Mother!' said my dear Duryodhan when he went unto the war,
'Wish me joy and wish me triumph as I mount the battle-car!'
'Son!' I said to dear Duryodhan, 'Heaven avert a cruel fate,
_Yato dharma stato jayah!_ Triumph doth on Virtue wait!'
But he set his heart on battle, by his valour wiped his sins,
Now he dwells in realms celestial which the faithful warrior wins!
And I weep not for Duryodhan, like a prince he fought and fell,
But my sorrow-stricken husband, who can his misfortunes tell?
Ay! my son was brave and princely, all resistless in the war,
Now he sleeps the sleep of warriors, sunk in gloom his glorious star!
Ay! My son mid crowned monarchs held the first and foremost way,
Now he rests upon the red earth, quenched his bright effulgent ray!
Ay! my son the best of heroes, he hath won the warrior's sky,
Kshatras nobly conquer, Krishna, when in war they nobly die!
Hark the loathsome cry of jackals, how the wolves their vigils keep,
Maidens rich in song and beauty erst were wont to watch his sleep!
Hark the foul and blood-beaked vultures flap their wings upon the dead,
Maidens waved their feathery _pankhas_ round Duryodhan's royal bed!
Peerless bowman, mighty monarch! nations still his hests obeyed,
As a lion slays a tiger, Bhima hath Duryodhan slayed!
Thirteen years o'er Kuru's empire proud Duryodhan held his sway,
Ruled Hastina's ancient city where fair Ganga's waters stray!
I have seen his regal splendour with these ancient eyes of mine,
Elephants and battle-chariots, steeds of war and herds of kine!
Kuru owns another master and Duryodhan's day is fled,
And I live to be a witness! Krishna, O that I were dead!
Mark Duryodhan's noble widow, mother proud of Lakshman bold,
Queenly in her youth and beauty, like an altar of bright gold!
Torn from husband's sweet embraces, from her son's entwining arms,
Doomed to life-long woe and anguish in her youth and in her charms!
Rend my hard and stony bosom crushed beneath this cruel pain,
Should Gandhari live to witness noble son and grandson slain?
Mark again Duryodhan's widow, how she hugs his gory head,
How with gentle hands and tender softly holds him on his bed!
How from dear departed husband turns she to her dearer son,
And the tear-drops of the mother choke the widow's bitter groan!
Like the fibre of the lotus tender-golden is her frame,
O my lotus! O my daughter! Bharat's pride and Kuru's fame!
If the truth resides in _Vedas_, brave Duryodhan dwells above,
Wherefore linger we in sadness severed from his cherished love?
If the truth resides in _Sastra_, dwells in sky my hero son,
For Gandhari and her daughter now their earthly task is done!'
IV
Funeral Rite
Victor of a deathful battle, sad Yudhishthir viewed the plain,
Friends and kinsmen, kings and chieftains, countless troops untimely slain,
And he spake to wise Sudharman, pious priest of Kuru's race,
Unto Sanjay, unto Dhaumya, to Vidura full of grace,
Spake unto the brave Yuyutsu, Kuru's last surviving chief,
Spake to faithful Indrasena, and to warriors sunk in grief:
'Pious rites are due to foemen and to friends and kinsmen slain,
None shall lack a fitting funeral, none shall perish on the plain.'
Wise Vidura and his comrades sped on sacred duty bound,
Sandalwood and scented aloes, oil and _ghee_ and perfumes found,
Silken robes of costly splendour, fabrics by the artist wove,
Dry wood from the thorny jungle, perfume from the scented grove,
Shattered cars and splintered lances, hewed and ready for the fire,
Piled and ranged in perfect order into many a funeral pyre.
Kings and princes, noble warriors, were in rank and order laid,
And with streams of melted butter were the rich libations made,
Blazed the fire with wondrous radiance by the rich libations fed,
Sanctifying and consuming mortal remnants of the dead.
Brave Duryodhan and his brothers, Salya of the mighty car,
Bhurisravas king of nations, Jayadratha famed in war,
Abhimanyu son of Arjun, Lakshman proud Duryodhan's son,
Somadatta and the Srinjays famed for deeds of valour done,
Matsya's monarch proud Virata, Drupad fair Panchala's king,
And his sons, Panchala's princes, whose great deeds the minstrels sing,
Cultured monarch of Kosala and Gandhara's wily lord,
Karna, proud and peerless archer, matchless with his flaming sword,
Bhagadatta eastern monarch, all resistless in his car,
Ghatotkacha son of Bhima, Alambusha famed in war,
And a hundred other monarchs all received the pious rite,
Till the radiance of the fire-light chased the shadows of the night!
_Pitri-medha_, due to fathers, was performed with pious care,
Hymns and wails and lamentations mingled in the midnight air,
Sacred songs of _rik_ and _saman_ rose with women's piercing wail,
And the creatures of the wide earth heard the sound subdued and pale!
Smokeless and with radiant lustre shone each red and lighted pyre,
Like the planets of the bright sky throbbing with celestial fire!
Countless myriads, nameless, friendless, from each court and camp afar,
From the east and west collected, fell in Kuru-Kshetra's war,
Thousand fires for them were lighted, they received the pious rite,
Such was good Yudhishthir's mandate, such was wise Vidura's might,
All the dead were burned to ashes and the sacred rite was o'er,
Dhrita-rashtra and Yudhishthir slowly walked to Ganga's shore!
V
Oblation to Karna
Sacred Ganga, ample-bosomed, sweeps along in regal pride,
Rolling down her limpid waters through high banks on either side,
Kuru dames and weeping widows thither in their anguish came
Due and holy rites to render to departed chiefs of fame,
Casting forth their jewelled girdles, gems and scarfs belaced with gold,
Gave oblations of the water to each hero true and bold,
Unto fathers, unto husbands, unto sons in battle slayed,
Offerings of the sacred water sorrowing wives and mothers made.
And so great the host of mourners wending to perform the rite,
That their footsteps made a pathway in the sad and sacred site,
And the shelving banks of Ganga peopled by the sorrowing train,
Wide-expanding, vast and sealike, formed a scene of woe and pain!
But a wave of keener sorrow swept o'er Pritha's heaving breast,
As unto her weeping children thus her secret she expressed:
_'He, my sons, the peerless bowman, mighty in his battle-car,
He who bore the stamp of hero, slain by Arjun in the war,_
_He whom as the son of Radha, chariot-driver, ye have thought,
He who shone with SURYA'S lustre as his countless foes he fought,_
_He who faced your stoutest warriors and in battle never failed,
He who led the Kuru forces and in danger never quailed,_
_He who knew no peer in prowess, owned in war no haughtier name,
He who yielded life, not honour, and by death hath conquered fame,_
_He, in truth who never faltered, never left his vow undone,
Offer unto him oblation, Karna was my eldest son!_
_Karna was your honoured elder, and the Sun inspired his birth,
Karna in his rings and armour Sun-like trod the spacious earth!'_
Pritha spake, and terror-stricken Pandav brothers groaned in pain,
And they wept in woe and anguish for the brother they had slain.
Hissing forth his sigh of sorrow like a trodden, hissing snake,
Sad Yudhishthir to his mother thus his inward feelings spake:
'Didst thou, mother, bear the hero fathomless like ocean dread,
Whose unfailing glistening arrows like its countless billows sped?
Didst thou bear that peerless archer, all-resistless in his car,
Sweeping with the roar of ocean through the shattered ranks of war?
Didst thou bear the mighty hero, mortal man of heavenly birth,
Crushing 'neath his arm of valour all his foemen on the earth?
Didst thou hide the birth and lineage of that chief of deathful ire,
As a man in folds of garments seeks to hide the flaming fire?
Arjun, wielder of _gandiva_, was for us no truer stay
Than was Karna for the Kurus in the battle's dread array!
Monarchs matched not Karna's glory nor his deeds of valour done,
Midst the mighty car-borne warriors mightiest warrior Karna shone!
Was he then our eldest brother we have in the battle slain,
And our nearest dearest elder fell upon the gory plain?
Not the death of Abhimanyu from the fair Subhadra torn,
Not the slaughter of the princes by the proud Draupadi borne,
Not the fall of Kuru warriors, nor Panchala's mighty host,
Like thy death afflicts my bosom, noble Karna! loved and lost!
Monarch's empire, victor's glory, all the treasures earth can yield,
Righteous bliss and heavenly gladness, harvest of the _swarga's_ field,
All that wish can shape and utter, all that nourish hope and pride,
All were ours, O noble Karna! with thee by thy brother's side,
And this carnage of the Kurus these sad eyes had never seen,
Peace had graced our blessed empire, happy would the earth have been!'
Long bewailed the sad Yudhishthir for his elder loved and dead,
And oblation of the water to the noble Karna made,
And the royal dames of Kuru viewed the sight with freshening pain,
Wept to see the good Yudhishthir offering to his brother slain,
And the widowed queen of Karna with the women of his house
Gave oblations to her hero, wept her loved and slaughtered spouse!
Done the rites to the departed, done oblations to the dead,
Slowly then the sad survivors on the river's margin spread,
Far along the shore and sandbank of the sacred sealike stream
Maid and matron laved their bodies 'neath the morning's holy beam,
And ablutions done, the Kurus slow and sad and cheerless part,
Wend their way to far Hastina with a void and vacant heart.
It has been fun,
she says at last.
Pure shock spreads
quickly 'cross her face,
from ear to ear.
Yes, fifty years it's been
and time enough
for shreds of hatred
to   mature
into indifference.
And now she finds herself
at the well-rusted iron portal
of her familiar God's Green Acres
to say one last farewell,
with just one whisper
of a fleeting thought
'bygone it be.'
When unknown arms
of roughness
turn her away.
And from the depth of
one new grave
a melody is heard.
It is the taunting sound of
scornful laughter.
My Funeral Pen writes for me
All of these words that set me free
The pen that I shared for  Mourners to sign
The pen that I wrote to turn back time
The pen that I wrote the Funeral Plans
While Families cried I held their hands
This pen has been held ever so tight
By many seeing darkness yet others seeing light
This pen holds memories dear to my heart
Bringing togetherness
Yet Families torn apart
Copyright Reserved May 2014
LYN PAUL
Darkness encompasses my space
My future seen bleak, feral beasts hide
Not even a glow worm to throw light
I see no chance of deliverance.
Through the mazy depths of gloom, I wade
Struck with the pestilence of rejection and hate
Hopes are now like shredded threads
Frayed away from a rope
I seek shade under a leafless tree
I hold on to a crutch as a prop
I curl up like a helpless embryo
Floating and swivelling in lucid agony
Shutters of distress is about to close in
Before that, I will my own death
In the absence of pall bearers
I shall carry my orphaned corpse
And walk the deserted road
Inching my way to the grave
Death
could be full of surprises.
I'm not Irish; but if you were to do
the full Irish thing - take my corpse out of the coffin,
dance wildly round the room with it one by one -
it'd make my day;
I'd remember it all my, death
and I bet you would too.
Though perhaps the tango would be a bit too far.
The funeral:
the not-too-many invitations should say
'Dress code: happy'. That I'd really like to see.
So I'll be standing at the lych-gate
like a reporter from the local rag
checking you in.
But if you don't attend - that's OK. I wouldn't like to die
a hypocrite; there'll be plenty of folk I shall be meeting
whose funeral I didn't attend, believing as I do
that funerals are for family and just those friends
who wouldn't miss it for the world.
Forget the flowers - I'd rather see flowers live until they die,
like me; not wither like day-brief memories,
as floral tributes flat on the slab like beached dolphins.
Sing the old favourites. And if you don't know the tunes or words,
I'm gently sorry for you - it's good to have them to remember, somewhere back there in the mind.
And if you must have little speeches,
I think I'll just take a stroll round the graveyard during that bit;
praise only makes me regret more what I didn't do.
Then if you're so busy that you leave after the service,
that's OK - but I'd like to think the best were still to come -
the 'do' afterwards - ah, I'll join you for that:
make it a good one; no food is too good
for the living. I'd like to be the one
handing round the plates of goodies;
whose forearm you gently touch in passing
to murmur a brief word about being missed
which may be truly meant
or found to be true.
I'm not really conversant with this recent 'Celebration' thing
though it seems an excellent idea, so positive:
I'd like it, then,  to be like that of my beloved friend, John:
where rather than just summon up memories and
share them with each other,
we seemed to be basking in the indescribable privilege
of his friendship
and his love;
which I guess in my case as in his would thus be truly
eternal.
Night funeral
In Harlem:
Where did they get
Them two fine cars?
Insurance man, he did not pay--
His insurance lapsed the other day--
Yet they got a satin box
for his head to lay.
Night funeral
In Harlem:
Who was it sent
That wreath of flowers?
Them flowers came
from that poor boy's friends--
They'll want flowers, too,
When they meet their ends.
Night funeral
in Harlem:
Who preached that
Black boy to his grave?
Old preacher man
Preached that boy away--
Charged Five Dollars
His girl friend had to pay.
Night funeral
In Harlem:
When it was all over
And the lid shut on his head
and the organ had done played
and the last prayers been said
and six pallbearers
Carried him out for dead
And off down Lenox Avenue
That long black hearse done sped,
The street light
At his corner
Shined just like a tear--
That boy that they was mournin'
Was so dear, so dear
To them folks that brought the flowers,
To that girl who paid the preacher man--
It was all their tears that made
That poor boy's
Funeral grand.
Night funeral
In Harlem.
The castle clock had tolled midnight:
With mattock and with spade,
And silent, by the torches' light,
His corse in earth we laid.
The coffin bore his name, that those
Of other years might know,
When earth its secrets should disclose,
Whose bones were laid below.
"Peace to the dead" no children sung,
Slow pacing up the nave,--
No prayers were read, no knell was rung,
As deep we dug his grave.
We only heard the winter's wind,
In many a sullen gust,
As, o'er the open grave inclined,
We murmured, "Dust to dust!"
A moonbeam from the arch's height
Streamed, as we placed the stone;
The long aisles started into light,
And all the windows shone.
We thought we saw the banners then,
That shook along the walls,
Whilst the sad shades of mailèd men
Were gazing on the stalls.
'Tis gone! again on tombs defaced
Sits darkness more profound;
And only by the torch we traced
The shadows on the ground.
And now the chilling, freezing air
Without blew long and loud;
Upon our knees we breathed one prayer,
Where he slept in his shroud.
We laid the broken marble floor,--
No name, no trace appears,--
And when we closed the sounding door,
We thought of him with tears.
I
Under the Great Comedian's tomb the crowd.
A bundle of tempestuous cloud is blown
About the sky; where that is clear of cloud
Brightness remains; a brighter star shoots down;
What shudders run through all that animal blood?
What is this sacrifice? Can someone there
Recall the Cretan barb that pierced a star?
Rich foliage that the starlight glittered through,
A frenzied crowd, and where the branches sprang
A beautiful seated boy; a sacred bow;
A woman, and an arrow on a string;
A pierced boy, image of a star laid low.
That woman, the Great Mother imaging,
Cut out his heart.  Some master of design
Stamped boy and tree upon Sicilian coin.
An age is the reversal of an age:
When strangers murdered Emmet, Fitzgerald, Tone,
We lived like men that watch a painted stage.
What matter for the scene, the scene once gone:
It had not touched our lives.  But popular rage,
Hysterica passio dragged this quarry down.
None shared our guilt; nor did we play a part
Upon a painted stage when we devoured his heart.
Come, fix upon me that accusing eye.
I thirst for accusation.  All that was sung.
All that was said in Ireland is a lie
Bred out of the c-ontagion of the throng,
Saving the rhyme rats hear before they die.
Leave nothing but the nothingS that belong
To this bare soul, let all men judge that can
Whether it be an animal or a man.
II
The rest I pass, one sentence I unsay.
Had de Valera eaten parnell's heart
No loose-lipped demagogue had won the day.
No civil rancour torn the land apart.
Had Cosgrave eaten parnell's heart, the land's
Imagination had been satisfied,
Or lacking that, government in such hands.
O'Higgins its sole statesman had not died.
Had even O'Duffy - but I name no more -
Their school a crowd, his master solitude;
Through Jonathan Swift's clark grove he passed, and there
plucked bitter wisdom that enriched his blood.
I attended the funeral of your dear one.
I heard your loud sobbing and screaming
As the coffin of your deceased husband
was carried out from the church aisle.
The black limousine was waiting outside
The caretaker looked at his watch
Each one picked up a white rose and
laid it on the coffin of your dear one.
Still the undertaker looked at you and waited;
You held on to the coffin and would not
Let the limousine drive off your husband-
to the burning heat of the crematorium.
The undertaker started the engine
You stood still sobbing, speaking and moaning
You drowned your heart in anguish so deep
But the funeral service should be culminated.
And the coffin was taken away by that black limousine
With a weak voice, you called, “Please come back”.
And you continued to sob without let up
The sting of death crushed your heart.
And there you stood with the presence
and comfort of your family and friends
No longer alone or bereft in the world
You were surrounded by those who wept
with you, who  stood beside you,
waiting when your anguish could subside.
______________________
Funeral of Frannie’s husband, September 5,2015
They bear him to his resting-place—
In slow procession sweeping by;
I follow at a stranger’s space;
His kindred they, his sweetheart I.
Unchanged my gown of garish dye,
Though sable-sad is their attire;
But they stand round with griefless eye,
Whilst my regret consumes like fire!
No drums, no marching and no bugles,
Not much crowd as expected
Only few relatives behind the anthill.
The President of ants has sent a deepest sympathy
That's saying; 'Sorry, I am not able to attend your funeral
As I have to be present in an Elephant's wedding.'
Fair is thy site, Sorrento, green thy shore,
Black crags behind thee pierce the clear blue skies;
The sea, whose borderers ruled the world of yore,
As clear and bluer still before thee lies.
Vesuvius smokes in sight, whose fount of fire,
Outgushing, drowned the cities on his steeps;
And murmuring Naples, spire o'ertopping spire,
Sits on the slope beyond where Virgil sleeps.
Here doth the earth, with flowers of every hue,
Heap her green breast when April suns are bright,
Flowers of the morning-red, or ocean-blue,
Or like the mountain frost of silvery white.
Currents of fragrance, from the orange tree,
And sward of violets, breathing to and fro,
Mingle, and wandering out upon the sea,
Refresh the idle boatsman where they blow.
Yet even here, as under harsher climes,
Tears for the loved and early lost are shed;
That soft air saddens with the funeral chimes,
Those shining flowers are gathered for the dead.
Here once a child, a smiling playful one,
All the day long caressing and caressed,
Died when its little tongue had just begun
To lisp the names of those it loved the best.
The father strove his struggling grief to quell,
The mother wept as mothers use to weep,
Two little sisters wearied them to tell
When their dear Carlo would awake from sleep.
Within an inner room his couch they spread,
His funeral couch; with mingled grief and love,
They laid a crown of roses on his head,
And murmured, 'Brighter is his crown above.'
They scattered round him, on the snowy sheet,
Laburnum's strings of sunny-coloured gems,
Sad hyacinths, and violets dim and sweet,
And orange blossoms on their dark green stems.
And now the hour is come, the priest is there;
Torches are lit and bells are tolled; they go,
With solemn rites of blessing and of prayer,
To lay the little corpse in earth below.
The door is opened; hark! that quick glad cry;
Carlo has waked, has waked, and is at play;
The little sisters laugh and leap, and try
To climb the bed on which the infant lay.
And there he sits alone, and gayly shakes
In his full hands, the blossoms red and white,
And smiles with winking eyes, like one who wakes
From long deep slumbers at the morning light.
They said you needed surgery.
You said ''There's business I must do.''
I drove you to the funeral home.
The arrangements were for you.
I had to wait outside that day.
I couldn't go in there.
I don't know how you made those plans.
You showed how much you cared.
You knew you wouldn't make it.
You feared the end was near.
I hate what your life did to you.
I wish you were still here.
How do you plan your funeral?
Were you as scared as I?
What were your thoughts heading to the docs?
Did you know that you would die?
If I could turn back time and say
the things I'd like to say,
I'd say ''I love you'' and ''I'll miss you.''
''I wish that you could stay! ''
And there we stood, the family,
foremost in black and closed off faces.
Then sevenhundred folks from town,
they all had come to give respect
one final time to one who had
for 60 years been always there.
A fancy bell, with tiny light
would spell the words 'Right There',
as reassurance in advance
things will be soon alright.
Ungodly hours were the norm
for illness shuns convenience
three thousand souls had no one else
combined they stooped his shoulders.
The trusty horse, with cart or sled
had learned the timely lesson
would do his part until the end
there were occasions when a lad
of very small dimensions
could hitch a ride, observe raw life
in awe and love for father.
Though it was never very clear
exactly whether time
or duty kept the answers far
truth is that little eyes,
looked up with need and full of hope
for signs of some exotic
and somewhat undefinable
or needful expectation.
It never came, there never was
that gleam that little boys
do know to be the hug of minds
all winds were really cold.
And decades passed
and shyness ruled
the whip ruled our world
tradition was the handshake though,
a touching gesture, really.
'It's women's work, to hug and kiss
men have their solemn duties',
grandparents did seem mellower
and babysitters, scrumptious
would give the hugs and kisses, too
I do bless all those years
they were in evidence today
in deepest black and dark of face.
And like a naughty little boy
I watched their frozen faces
and wondered who was really sad
and who was here to just be seen
and what did I, myself, reveal
to my own soul today
to say good-bye, there was no choice
I could not give an answer.
It started snowing then, was cold
and what an inconvenience
the dust that each of us threw in
was mixed with flakes of white
I could not help but grin right then
'You gonna freeze your ass'.
We all went home, aware of death
a bit more for a week
there wasn't one who would have gone
in place of him, not one
and tiny thoughts, stirred up by words
of pastor's glowing sermon
reminded of mortality, today it was not time.
Gravedigger Johann closed the hole
I stayed behind to watch
he winked and spat tobacco juice
and said 'there lies a valued man
but all his stuff went with him.'
There was his brain, crammed full of facts
a spritely body, filled with duty
so many bones and other features,
oh, what a waste, to drown it all
within cheap dirt, and for the worms
a marble stone reminding
that what we have on mother earth
is something of no substance.
So will it matter what they think
when they go see the new one
the memory of their old Doc
it may just die  inside them,
or at the time when all of us
pass through our final hour
and only marble gravestones might
last just a few years longer.
"Yes," said the sister with the little pinched face,
The busy little sister with the funny little tract: —
"This is the climax, the grand fifth act.
There rides the proud, at the finish of his race.
There goes the hearse, the mourners cry,
The respectable hearse goes slowly by.
The wife of the dead has money in her purse,
The children are in health, so it might have been worse.
That fellow in the coffin led a life most foul.
A fierce defender of the red bar-tender,
At the church he would rail,
At the preacher he would howl.
He planted every deviltry to see it grow.
He wasted half his income on the lewd and the low.
He would trade engender for the red bar-tender,
He would homage render to the red bar-tender,
And in ultimate surrender to the red bar-tender,
He died of the tremens, as crazy as a loon,
And his friends were glad, when the end came soon.
There goes the hearse, the mourners cry,
The respectable hearse goes slowly by.
And now, good friends, since you see how it ends,
Let each nation-mender flay the red bar-tender, —
Abhor
The transgression
Of the red bar-tender, —
Ruin
The profession
Of the red bar-tender:
Force him into business where his work does good.
Let him learn how to plough, let him learn to chop wood,
Let him learn how to plough, let him learn to chop wood.
"The moral,
The conclusion,
The verdict now you know:—
'The saloon must go,
The saloon must go,
The saloon,
The saloon,
The saloon,
Must go.'"
"You are right, little sister," I said to myself,
"You are right, good sister," I said.
"Though you wear a mussy bonnet
On your little gray head,
You are right, little sister," I said.
The funeral bell is ringing a reminder of our mortality
Farewelling a deceased soul one day 'twill ring for me
Ringing in the stillness of this cool Autumn day
Across the rural city in the morning damp and gray.
The funeral bell is pealing for one a last farewell
And few sounds sadder than the slow peals of the loud funeral bell
Above the streets and houses it echoes to the sky
For one bound for her or his last resting place the cemetery nearby.
The peewees in the town park distinctive in their call
And the magpie on a wattle pipe on this cool morning in the Fall
And for one who will not breathe again the eulogy is read
And the funeral bell is tolling in memory of the dead.
The funeral bell is ringing for one a last goodbye
And on the clock of our mortality the hours just seem to fly
Respect to the departed is all that we can pay
And for each and everyone of us a final night and day.
A GLORIOUS voice hath ceased!-
Mournfully, reverently-the funeral chant
Breathe reverently! There is a dreamy sound,
A hollow murmur of the dying year,
In the deep woods. Let it be wild and sad!
A more Aeolian melancholy tone
Than ever wail'd o'er bright things perishing!
For that is passing from the darken'd land,
Which the green summer will not bring us back-
Though all her songs return. The funeral chant
Breathe reverently!-They bear the mighty forth,
The kingly ruler in the realms of mind-
They bear him through the household paths, the groves,
Where every tree had music of its own
To his quick ear of knowledge taught by love-
And he is silent!-Past the living stream
They bear him now; the stream, whose kindly voice
On alien shores his true heart burn'd to hear-
And he is silent! O'er the heathery hills,
Which his own soul had mantled with a light
Richer than autumn's purple, now they move-
And he is silent!-he, whose flexile lips
Were but unseal'd, and lo! a thousand forms,
From every pastoral glen and fern-clad height,
In glowing life upsprang:-Vassal and chief,
Rider and steed, with shout and bugle-peal,
Fast rushing through the brightly troubled air,
Like the wild huntsman's band. And still they live,
To those fair scenes imperishably bound,
And, from the mountain mist still flashing by,
Startle the wanderer who hath listen'd there
To the seer's voice: phantoms of colour'd thought,
Surviving him who raised.-O eloquence!
O power, whose breathings thus could wake the dead!
Who shall wake thee? lord of the buried past!
And art thou there-to those dim nations join'd,
Thy subject-host so long?-The wand is dropp'd
The bright lamp broken, which the gifted hand
Touch'd, and the genii came!-Sing reverently
The funeral chant!-The mighty is borne home-
And who shall be his mourners?-Youth and age,
For each hath felt his magic-love and grief,
For he hath communed with the heart of each:
Yes-the free spirit of humanity
May join the august procession, for to him
Its mysteries have been tributary things,
And all its accents known:-from field or wave,
Never was conqueror on his battle bier,
By the vail'd banner and the muffled drum,
And the proud drooping of the crested head,
More nobly follow'd home.-The last abode,
The voiceless dwelling of the bard is reach'd:
A still majestic spot: girt solemnly
With all the imploring beauty of decay;
A stately couch 'midst ruins! meet for him
With his bright fame to rest in, as a king
Of other days, laid lonely with his sword
Beneath his head. Sing reverently the chant
Over the honour'd grave!-the grave!-oh, say
Rather the shrine!-An alter for the love,
The light, soft pilgrim steps, the votive wreaths
Of years unborn-a place where leaf and flower,
By that which dies not of the sovereign dead,
Shall be made holy things-where every weed
Shall have its portion of the inspiring gift
From buried glory breathed. And now, what strain,
Making victorious melody ascend
High above sorrow's dirge, befits the tomb
Where he that sway'd the nations thus is laid-
The crown'd of men?
A lowly, lowly, song.
Lowly and solemn be
Thy children's cry to Thee,
Father divine!
A hymn of suppliant breath,
Owning that life and death
Alike are Thine!
A spirit on its way,
Sceptred the earth to sway,
From Thee was sent:
Now call'st Thou back Thine own-
Hence is that radiance flown-
To earth but lent.
Watching in breathless awe,
The bright head bow'd we saw,
Beneath Thy hand!
Fill'd by one hope, one fear,
Now o'er a brother's bier,
Weeping we stand.
How hath he pass'd!-the lord
Of each deep bosom chord,
To meet Thy sight,
Unmantled and alone,
On Thy bless'd mercy thrown,
O Infinite!
So, from his harvest home,
Must the tired peasant come;
So, in one trust,
Leader and king must yield
The naked soul, reveal'd
To Thee, All Just!
The sword of many of a fight-
What then shall be its might?
The lofty lay,
That rush'd on eagle wing-
What shall its memory bring?
What hope, what stay?
O Father! in that hour,
When earth all succouring power
Shall disavow;
When spear, and shield, and crown,
In faintness are cast down-
Sustain us, Thou!
By Him who bow'd to take
The death-cup for our sake,
The thorn, the rod;
From whom the last dismay
Was not to pass away-
Aid us, O God!
Tremblers beside the grave,
We call on thee to save.
Father divine!
Hear, hear our suppliant breath,
Keep us, in life and death,
Thine, only Thine!
Zeus mourns deeply:
Patroklos has killed Sarpedon.
Now Patroklos and the Achaians rush on
to snatch up the body, to dishonour it.
But Zeus doesn't tolerate that at all.
Though he let his favourite child be killed
this the Law required
he'll at least honour him after death.
So he now sends Apollo down to the plain
with instructions about how the body should be tended.
Apollo reverently raises the hero's body
and carries it in sorrow to the river.
He washes the dust and blood away,
heals the terrible wounds so there's no trace left,
pours perfume of ambrosia over it,
and dresses it in radiant Olympian robes.
He bleaches the skin, and with a pearl comb
combs out the jet black hair.
He spreads and arranges the beautiful limbs.
Now he looks like a young king, a royal charioteer-
twenty-five or twenty-six years old-
resting himself after winning
the prize in a famous race,
his chariot all gold and his horses the fastest.
Having finished his task this way,
Apollo calls for the two brothers,
Sleep and Death, and orders them
to take the body to Lykia, the rich country.
So the two brothers, Sleep and Death,
set off on foot toward the rich country, Lykia;
and when they reached the door
of the king's palace,
they handed over the honoured body
and then returned to their other concerns.
And once the body was received in the palace
the sad burial began, with processions and honours and dirges,
with many libations from sacred vessels,
with all pomp and circumstance.
Then skilled workers from the city
and celebrated craftsmen in stone
came to make the tombstone and the tomb.
Ye sons of Germany, your noble Emperor William now is dead.
Who oft great armies to battle hath led;
He was a man beloved by his subjects all,
Because he never tried them to enthral.
The people of Germany have cause now to mourn,
The loss of their hero, who to them will ne'er return;
But his soul I hope to Heaven has fled away,
To the realms of endless bliss for ever and aye.
He was much respected throughout Europe by the high and the low,
And all over Germany people's hearts are full of woe;
For in the battlefield he was a hero bold,
Nevertheless, a lover of peace, to his credit be it told.
'Twas in the year of 1888, and on March the 16th day,
That the peaceful William's remains were conveyed away
To the royal mausoleum of Charlottenburg, their last resting-place,
The God-fearing man that never did his country disgrace.
The funeral service was conducted in the cathedral by the court chaplain, Dr. Kogel,
Which touched the hearts of his hearers, as from his lips it fell,
And in conclusion he recited the Lord's Prayer
In the presence of kings, princes, dukes, and counts assembled there.
And at the end of the service the infantry outside fired volley after volley,
While the people inside the cathedral felt melancholy,
As the sound of the musketry smote upon the ear,
In honour of the illustrous William, whom they loved most dear.
Then there was a solemn pause as the kings and princes took their places,
Whilst the hot tears are trickling down their faces,
And the mourners from shedding tears couldn't refrain;
And in respect of the good man, above the gateway glared a bituminous flame.
Then the coffin was placed on the funeral car,
By the kings and princes that came from afar;
And the Crown Prince William heads the procession alone,
While behind him are the four heirs-apparent to the throne.
Then followed the three Kings of Saxony, and the King of the Belgians also,
Together with the Prince of Wales, with their hearts full of woe,
Besides the Prince of Naples and Prince Rudolph of Austria were there,
Also the Czarevitch, and other princes in their order I do declare.
And as the procession passes the palace the blinds are drawn completely,
And every house is half hidden with the sable drapery;
And along the line of march expansive arches were erected,
While the spectators standing by seemed very dejected.
And through the Central Avenue, to make the decorations complete,
There were pedestals erected, rising fourteen to fifteen feet,
And at the foot and top of each pedestal were hung decorations of green bay,
Also beautiful wreaths and evergreen festoons all in grand array.
And there were torches fastened on pieces of wood stuck in the ground;
And as the people gazed on the weird-like scene, their silence was profound;
And the shopkeepers closed their shops, and hotel-keepers closed in the doorways,
And with torchlight and gaslight, Berlin for once was all ablaze.
The authorities of Berlin in honour of the Emperor considered it no sin,
To decorate with crape the beautiful city of Berlin;
Therefore Berlin I declare was a city of crape,
Because few buildings crape decoration did escape.
First in the procession was the Emperor's bodyguard,
And his great love for them nothing could it retard;
Then followed a squadron of the hussars with their band,
Playing "Jesus, Thou my Comfort," most solemn and grand.
And to see the procession passing the sightseers tried their best,
Especially when the cavalry hove in sight, riding four abreast;
Men and officers with their swords drawn, a magnificent sight to see
In the dim sun's rays, their burnished swords glinting dimly.
Then followed the footguards with slow and solemn tread,
Playing the "Dead March in Saul," most appropriate for the dead;
And behind them followed the artillery, with four guns abreast,
Also the ministers and court officials dressed in their best.
The whole distance to the grave was covered over with laurel and bay,
So that the body should be borne along smoothly all the way;
And the thousands of banners in the procession were beautiful to view,
Because they were composed of cream-coloured silk and light blue.
There were thousands of thousands of men and women gathered there,
And standing ankle deep in snow, and seemingly didn't care
So as they got a glimpse of the funeral car,
Especially the poor souls that came from afar.
And when the funeral car appeared there was a general hush,
And the spectators in their anxiety to see began to crush;
And when they saw the funeral car by the Emperor's charger led,
Every hat and cap was lifted reverently from off each head.
And as the procession moved on to the royal mausoleum,
The spectators remained bareheaded and seemingly quite dumb;
And as the coffin was borne into its last resting-place,
Sorrow seemed depicted in each one's face.
And after the burial service the mourners took a last farewell
Of the noble-hearted William they loved so well;
Then rich and poor dispersed quietly that were assembled there,
While two batteries of field-guns fired a salute which did rend the air
In honour of the immortal hero they loved so dear,
The founder of the Fatherland Germany, that he did revere.
'Twas in the year of 1888, and on the 19th of November,
Which the friends of the late Ex-Provost Rough will long remember,
Because 'twas on the 19th of November his soul took its flight
To the happy land above, the land of pure delight.
Take him for all in all, he was a very good man,
And during his Provostship he couldn't be equalled in Great Britain,
Which I proclaim to the world without any dread,
Because while Provost he reduced the public-houses to three hundred.
Whereas at the time there were 620 public-houses in the town,
But being a friend of the temperance cauae he did frown,
Because he saw the evils of intemperance every day
While sitting on the bench, so he resolved to sweep public-houses away.
And in doing so the good man, in my opinion, was right,
Because the evils of intemperance is an abomination in God's sight;
And all those that get drunk are enemies to Him,
Likewise enemies to Christ's kingdom, which is a great sin.
The late Ex-Provost Rough was President of the Dundee Temperance Society,
An office which he filled with great ability;
Besides Vice-President of the Scottish Temperance League for many years,
And no doubt the friends of temperance for his loss will shed tears.
Because many a hungry soul he relieved while in distress,
And for doing so I hope the Lord will him bless,
For his kindness towards the poor people in Dundee,
Besides for his love towards the temperance cause, and his integrity.
And when the good man's health began to decline
The doctor ordered him to take each day two glasses of wine,
But he soon saw the evil of it, and from it he shrunk,
The noble old patriarch, for fear of getting drunk.
And although the doctor advised him to continue taking the wine,
Still the hero of the temperance cause did decline,
And told the doctor he wouldn't of wine take any more,
So in a short time his spirit fled to heaven, where all troubles are o'er.
I'm sure very little good emanates from strong drink,
And many people, alas! it leads to hell's brink!
Some to the scaffold, and some to a pauper's grave,
Whereas if they would abstain from drink, Christ would them save.
'Twas on Friday afternoon, in November the 23rd day,
That the funeral cortege to the Western Cemetery wended its way,
Accompanied by the Magistrates, and amongst those present were-
Bailie Macdonald and Bailie Black, also Lord Provost Hunter I do declare.
There were also Bailie Foggie, Bailie Craig, and Bailie Stephenson,
And Ex-Provost Moncur, and Ex-Provost Ballingall representing the Royal Orphan Institution;
Besides there were present the Rev. J. Jenkins and the Rev. J. Masson,
With grief depicted in their faces and seemingly woe-begone.
There were also Mr Henry Adams, representing the Glover trade,
Also Mr J. Carter, who never was afraid
To denounce strong drink, and to warn the people from it to flee,
While agent of the Temperance Society in Dundee.
And when the funeral cortege arrived at the Western burying-ground,
Then the clergyman performed the funeral service with a solemn sound;
While from the eyes of the spectators fell many a tear
For the late Ex-Provost Rough they loved so dear.
And when the coffin was lowered into its house of clay,
Then the friends of the deceased homewards wended their way,
Conversing on the good qualities of the good man,
Declaring that the late Ex-Provost Rough couldn't be equalled in Great Britain.
Alas! Prince Henry of Battenberg is dead!
And, I hope, has gone to heaven, its streets to tread,
And to sing with God's saints above,
Where all is joy and peace and love.
'Twas in the year of 1896, and on the 5th of February,
Prince Henry was buried at Whippingham- a solemn sight to see.
As the funeral moved off, it was a very impressive sight-
First came the military, and police, and volunteers from the Isle of Wight.
Then came the carriage party of the Scots Guards;
While the people uncovered their heads as it passed onwards
And many of them did sob and sigh
When the gun carriage with the coffin was passing by.
Prince Henry's charger was led by Richter, his stud groom;
And depicted in the people's faces there was a sad gloom
When they saw the noble charger of the dead-
It seemed that all joy from them had fled.
The Queen's carriage was followed by the Princess of Wales, and other Princesses,
All clad in gorgeous mourning dresses;
And there was a number of military representatives, which enhanced the scene;
And as the procession moved along it was solemn in the extreme.
Her Majesty looked very sad and serene,
Leaning back in her carriage could plainly be seen;
And the carriage was drawn by a pair of greys in grand harness;
And Her Majesty seemed to be in deep distress.
By Her Majesty's side sat the Princess Beatrice
And the two younger Battenberg children, looking very nice;
And by the coffin walked the elder Prince, immediately
Between Prince Louis and Prince Joseph, holding their hands tenderly.
The "Dead March" was played by the Marine Band;
And the music was solemn and very grand,
And accompanied by the roll of muffled drums;
Whilst among the spectators were heard sighs and hums.
And when the procession arrived at the church of Whippingham,
Then the coffin was carried inside- of the good man-
And was then laid in its resting place,
While sorrow was depicted in every face.
Then there was the firing of guns, with their earthly Thunder
Which made the people start and wonder;
And the tolling of the village bells,
While the solemn music on the air swells.
And the people said, "Prince Henry was a good man,
But now he's laid low in the church of Whippingham."
But when the Grim King his dart does throw,
None can escape death, high or low.
The funeral service was certainly very nice-
Which was by the request of Princess Beatrice-
Which was the rendering of Sullivan's anthem, "Brother, before us thou art gone"-
I hope unto thy heavenly home.
No Doubt the Princess Beatrice will mourn for him-
But to mourn for the dead it is a sin!
Therefore I hope God will comfort her always,
And watch o'er her children night and day.
Prince Henry was a God-fearing man-
And to deny it few people can-
And very kind to his children dear,
And for the loss of him they will drop a tear.
His relatives covered the coffin lid with wreaths of flowers,
While adown their cheeks flowed tears in showers.
Then the service concluded with "Christ will gather His own";
And each one left with a sad heart and went home.
The Day that
Youth
had died,
There came to his grave-side,
In decent mourning, from the country’s ends,
Those scatter’d friends
Who had lived the boon companions of his prime,
And laughed with him and sung with him and wasted,
In feast and wine and many-crown’d carouse,
The days and nights and dawnings of the time
When
Youth
kept open house,
Nor left untasted
Aught of his high emprise and ventures dear,
No quest of his unshar’d—
All these, with loitering feet and sad head bar’d,
Followed their old friend’s bier.
Folly
went first,
With muffled bells and coxcomb still revers’d;
And after trod the bearers, hat in hand—
Laughter,
most hoarse, and Captain
Pride
with tanned
And martial face all grim, and fussy
Joy
Who had to catch a train, and
Lust,
poor, snivelling boy;
These bore the dear departed.
Behind them, broken-hearted,
Came
Grief,
so noisy a widow, that all said,
“Had he but wed
Her elder sister
Sorrow,
in her stead!”
And by her, trying to soothe her all the time,
The fatherless children,
Colour, Tune,
and
Rhyme
(The sweet lad
Rhyme
), ran all-uncomprehending.
Then, at the way’s sad ending,
Round the raw grave they stay’d. Old
Wisdom
read,
In mumbling tone, the Service for the Dead.
There stood
Romance,
The furrowing tears had mark’d her rougèd cheek;
Poor old
Conceit,
his wonder unassuaged;
Dead
Innocency’s
daughter,
Ignorance;
And shabby, ill-dress’d
Generosity;
And
Argument,
too full of woe to speak;
Passion,
grown portly, something middle-aged;
And
Friendship
—not a minute older, she;
Impatience,
ever taking out his watch;
Faith,
who was deaf, and had to lean, to catch
Old
Wisdom’s
endless drone.
Beauty
was there,
Pale in her black; dry-eyed; she stood alone.
Poor maz’d Imagination;
Fancy
wild;
Ardour,
the sunlight on his greying hair;
Contentment,
who had known
Youth
as a child
And never seen him since. And
Spring
came too,
Dancing over the tombs, and brought him flowers—
She did not stay for long.
And
Truth,
and
Grace,
and all the merry crew,
The laughing
Winds
and
Rivers,
and lithe
Hours;
And
Hope,
the dewy-eyed; and sorrowing
Song;
—
Yes, with much woe and mourning general,
At dead
Youth’s
funeral,
Even these were met once more together, all,
Who erst the fair and living
Youth
did know;
All, except only
Love. Love
had died long ago.
Silver handles on a casket of steel
Reflecting sunlight...cold and unreal...
Sinking deep into hallowed ground
As the grief-stricken gather 'round.
A mothers tears hidden behind a veil
Youngsters with faces...ghostly pale,
Friends and family of a beloved gone...
A scene too frequent and painfully wrong.
Naught in time could have a greater cost
Than the life of a child to violence lost!
Hushed phone calls litter the day, and
Arouse my curiosity. Mum looks tired.
Dad looks sad.
I don’t understand.
I’m told we’re going down South.
To see Grandad.
The journey is cold and static,
Everyone keeps sighing.
I feel left out and don’t know what to say.
We arrive in the dead of night, and
I have to go to bed.
As I climb the stairs I see my uncles
all shaking hands and patting each other
on the back. My Dad goes to join them.
They all look sad,
and I’m left confused.
As I lay on my Aunt and Uncle’s
creaking spare bed, covered only by
An itchy blanket and my cold, clammy t-shirt,
I strain to hear the hushed murmurs
that escape from downstairs. I fall
asleep with echoes of “…. nice we think he’d
appreciate, ” ringing in my ears,
not knowing quite what it could mean.
The next morning, I’m woken up early, and dressed
in my Sunday best.
Everyone still looks sad.
So I try and be sad, too.
An Uncle comes in through my breakfast,
and announces the cars are here.
Everyone looks at their feet,
and talks in mumbles.
I’ve no idea what he meant, but I looked at my feet too.
I follow my parents out to a big, black car in the street,
and feel disappointed that this doesn’t seem an appropriate time
to be excited about riding in a really long car.
We travel in complete silence, no-one says a thing.
They all just keep looking sad.
We stopped at the place where they buried people,
and made a long line behind a wooden box
on six men’s shoulders. My Dad was one of them.
He looked so sad, sombre and solemn. Yet proud as well.
That confused me.
We started walking and an Aunt began to cry.
I’d never seen an adult cry before.
I thought they were strong and invincible,
Like the Power Rangers.
More people started crying and it upset me too.
Something bad must have happened.
We gathered round the grave, compressed together like a fortress
trying to stop bad things from getting inside.
After the priest had read a few words,
the silence sang out. It sang so loud
that it made more people cry.
Nothingness boomed round the churchyard,
bouncing and echoing off the headstones,
louder and more conspicuous than any rock music.
I was lost; bewildered.
In my dazed upset, I tugged on Mummy’s sleeve,
and asked her where Grandad was, we were supposed
to be here to see Grandad.
She knelt to me, trying not to cry,
and told me “Grandad is in Heaven now, we’re here
to say goodbye.”
I said goodbye to my Grandad,
but not at his graveside, surrounded by soil and tears.
I couldn’t bear to look into that hole to see
it reflect the hollowness in my heart and mind, and
the emptiness left in all our lives.
I would honour his memory my own way.
I’d remember the happiness he brought.
I’d remember him as I saw him last,
and say goodbye in thought
MARK you not yon sad procession;
'Mid the ruin'd abbey's gloom,
Hastening to the worm's possession,
To the dark and silent tomb!
See the velvet pall hangs over
Poor mortality's remains;
We should shudder to discover
What that coffin's space contains.
Death itself is lovely—wearing
But the colder shape of sleep;
Or the solemn statue bearing
Beauty that forbids to weep.
But decay—the pulses tremble
When its livid signs appear;
When the once-loved lips resemble
All we loathe, and all we fear.
Is it not a ghastly ending
For the body's godlike form,
Thus to the damp earth descending,
Food and triumph to the worm?
Better far the red pile blazing
With the spicy Indian wood,
Incense unto heaven raising
From the sandal oil's sweet flood.
In the bright pyre's kindling flashes,
Let my yielded soul ascend;
Fling to the wild winds my ashes
'Till with mother-earth they blend.
Not so,—let the pale urn keep them;
Touch'd with spices, oil, and wine;
Let there be some one to weep them;
Wilt thou keep that urn? Love mine!
He showed me to a room
With dimmed lights and
Soft, soulful music.
It was appropriate.
I told the funeral director
I would do the laying out myself
It was important to me.
I would call him when finished.
He smiled the smile of an undertaker.
Did he understand how I felt?
The coffin was unlined
No need of white satin now.
I've brought with me the white box.
Do you remember it?
The one, which held all our keepsakes?
Well… it was silly me that insisted,
I thought they'd be good to look back on.
There's no need of them now.
What use are trinkets anyway?
The little pressed flower from
Our first meeting.
It looks so black and sad now.
Don't you think so?
The gold locket with its broken chain.
(It was tin really, but I never complained.)
My wedding veil with its double layer,
I could hardly see you, but I sensed you.
You were rigid. I thought it was wedding nerves.
Oh look! The photo of you blowing kisses
Toward the camera.
But it wasn't me taking the picture,
Just someone we'd met on honeymoon.
Sarina. She was very pregnant wasn't she?
And very happy too.
We kept in touch for a while.
Here's another one, of me this time.
Oh dear. It's the one with the black eye,
You were throwing pebbles at the beach
And one accidentally hit me. Remember?
It bled quite a lot didn't it?
The doctor was very quizzical,
But I managed to convince him in the end.
Oh look.
Here's the recording Sarina sent us
Of the baby's first cry.
She named the baby after you
Didn't she.
Oh I do babble on don't I?
I'd best get on with the packing,
There's quite a lot in here really.
I think I'll just tie it into one big bundle
And make a list on the package
With a laundry marker so it wont fade
And put it in the coffin.
CONTENTS:
Various nick-nacks
Lies
Controlling
Bullying
Disrespect
Anger
Impatience
Ridicule
Violence
Infidelity
Oh I nearly forgot. (silly me.)
Fear.
How could I forget that!
Fear was the most prominent wasn't it?
Never mind, it's on the list now
And all packed away.
The funeral car has arrived
But no hearse.
I'll carry the coffin on my knee.
I only needed a small one
As I packed everything tightly together.
There'll be no need of a service.
No need to waste money unnecessarily.
By the way, I packed some candles
And calamine lotion too.
I know it will be dark at your new place
And the heat overpowering.
It's time to go now but I was just wondering...
Will Sarina write a similar list
When her time comes.
10/03/2016
Weasel words
with easy starts
are not the first
ones to our hearts
when the cold cadaver light of day
takes one of those we love away
After the funeral
- when the funeral was over
- After we had buried him
We walked across the grass
...We walked across the grass
leaving footprints in the dew
footprints in the dew
How was that possible
’God’s name how was that possible
with him forever
And now, forever
footprints forever
looking back across the grass
The warmth of the day
losing us all, forever
The funeral procession drove past my house
I bowed my head and I was quite as a mouse,
In a solemn prayer I gave to the sadly departed
As I knew of the sadness and remorse of the fainthearted;
One car after another I watched go down the street
As I still stood there in respect in this unbearable heat,
The cars that I counted they were over twenty-five
Sadly not one visited the departed when he was still alive;
So, there goes his procession heading to the graveyard
As though being led by weepers and the national guard,
I guess when he was living his life he was always misread
Now he is missed and remembered since now he is dead.
Randy L. McClave
The Rose was sick, and smiling died;
And, being to be sanctified,
About the bed, there sighing stood
The sweet and flowery sisterhood.
Some hung the head, while some did bring,
To wash her, water from the spring;
Some laid her forth, while others wept,
But all a solemn fast there kept.
The holy sisters some among,
The sacred dirge and trental sung;
But ah!  what sweets smelt everywhere,
As heaven had spent all perfumes there!
At last, when prayers for the dead,
And rites, were all accomplished,
They, weeping, spread a lawny loom,
And closed her up as in a tomb.
Eight Parts of Speech this Day wear Mourning Gowns
Declin'd Verbs, Pronouns, Participles, Nouns.
And not declined, Adverbs and Conjunctions,
In Lillies Porch they stand to do their functions.
With Preposition; but the most affection
Was still observed in the Interjection.
The Substantive seeming the limbed best,
Would set an hand to bear him to his Rest.
The Adjective with very grief did say,
Hold me by strength, or I shall faint away.
The Clouds of Tears did over-cast their faces,
Yea all were in most lamentable Cases.
The five Declensions did the Work decline,
And Told the Pronoun Tu, The work is thine:
But in this case those have no call to go
That want the Vocative, and can't say O!
The Pronouns said that if the Nouns were there,
There was no need of them, they might them spare:
But for the sake of Emphasis they would,
In their Discretion do what ere they could.
Great honour was confer'd on Conjugations,
They were to follow next to the Relations.
Amo did love him best, and Doceo might
Alledge he was his Glory and Delight.
But Lego said by me he got his skill,
And therefore next the Herse I follow will.
Audio said little, hearing them so hot,
Yet knew by him much Learning he had got.
O Verbs the Active were, Or Passive sure,
Sum to be Neuter could not well endure.
But this was common to them all to Moan
Their load of grief they could not soon Depone.
A doleful Day for Verbs, they look so moody,
They drove Spectators to a Mournful Study.
The Verbs irregular, 'twas thought by some,
Would break no rule, if they were pleas'd to come.
Gaudeo could not be found; fearing disgrace
He had with-drawn, sent Maereo in his Place.
Possum did to the utmost he was able,
And bore as Stout as if he'd been A Table.
Volo was willing, Nolo some-what stout,
But Malo rather chose, not to stand out.
Possum and Volo wish'd all might afford
Their help, but had not an Imperative Word.
Edo from Service would by no means Swerve,
Rather than fail, he thought the Cakes to Serve.
Fio was taken in a fit, and said,
By him a Mournful POEM should be made.
Fero was willing for to bear a part,
Altho' he did it with an aking heart.
Feror excus'd, with grief he was so Torn,
He could not bear, he needed to be born.
Such Nouns and Verbs as we defective find,
No Grammar Rule did their attendance bind.
They were excepted, and exempted hence,
But Supines, all did blame for negligence.
Verbs Offspring, Participles hand-in-hand,
Follow, and by the same direction stand:
The rest Promiscuously did croud and cumber,
Such Multitudes of each, they wanted Number.
Next to the Corpse to make th' attendance even,
Jove, Mercury, Apollo came from heaven.
And Virgil, Cato, gods, men, Rivers, Winds,
With Elegies, Tears, Sighs, came in their kinds.
Ovid from Pontus hast's Apparrell'd thus,
In Exile-weeds bringing De Tristibus:
And Homer sure had been among the Rout,
But that the Stories say his Eyes were out.
Queens, Cities, Countries, Islands, Come
All Trees, Birds, Fishes, and each Word in Um.
What Syntax here can you expect to find?
Where each one bears such discomposed mind.
Figures of Diction and Construction,
Do little: Yet stand sadly looking on.
That such a Train may in their motion chord,
Prosodia gives the measure Word for Word.
She collected the deceased from the mortuary
She washed the body down seeing the body peacefully free
Then she dressed the body in what 'The family' had chose
Now dressed so bright, holding a RED rose
She then collected an upstanding coffin that was lined along the wall...
Carefully placing it on a pedestal
So ready to drill the handles and line the coffin with lace
Then engraving the name plate at a steady pace
She then went back to the body and with family instructions
She added powder, blush then a little lipstick on
Then with 6 steady hands, placed her in
Into her pure white coffin where there would be only sleep ins
The 6 steady hands placed the body for the family to see
They all cried and cried... just could not believe
Could not believe she was gone and here no more
They knew they had to accept even though they were raw
The grieving Funeral Director had arranged the funeral as she knew how to do
She had placed the Funeral Notices and Ordered the flowers too
At the Cemetery Gate she walked and smiled in front of the Hearse
In Gods garden she was practising her verse
Her verse of hope and support that she would read to the family today
A verse to help them accept, there is no other way
So the reading went well..., the music had played
Family so happy they said: 'I wish not  to see you again... I'm afraid! '
*****************
This Grieving Funeral Director took a little sadness with her from each Funeral. Yet the pure satisfaction she received from helping these Grieving families was so well worth it.
Copyright Reserved May 2014
LYN PAUL
Then died, lamented, in the strength of life,
A valued mother, and a faithful wife:
Call'd not away, when time had loosed each hold
On the fond heart, and each desire grew cold;
But when, to all that knit us to our kind,
She felt fast bound, as charity can bind; -
Not when the ills of age, its pain, its care,
The drooping spirit for its fate prepare;
And, each affection failing, leaves the heart
Loosed from life's charm, and willing to depart; -
But all her ties the strong invader broke,
In all their strength, by on tremendous stroke!
Sudden and swift the eager pest came on,
And terror grew, till every hope was gone;
Still those around appear'd for hope to seek:
But view'd the sick, and were afraid to speak.
Slowly they bore, with solemn step, the dead;
When grief grew loud, and bitter tears were shed,
My part began: a crowd drew near the place,
Awe in each eye, alarm in every face;
So swift the ill, and of so fierce a kind,
That fear with pity mingled in each mind;
Friends with the husband came, their griefs to blend;
For good-man Frankford was to all a friend.
The last-born boy they held above the bier;
He knew not grief, but cries express'd his fear;
Each different age and sex reveal'd its pain,
In now a louder, now a lower strain!
While the meek father, listening to their tones,
Swell'd the full cadence of the grief by groans.
The elder sister strove her pangs to hide,
And soothing words to younger minds applied:
'Be still, be patient;' oft she strove to say,
But fail'd as oft, and weeping turn'd away.
Curious and sad, upon the fresh-dug hill,
The village lads stood melancholy still;
And idle children, wandering to and fro,
As nature guided, took the tone of woe.
Arrived at home, how then they gazed around,
In every place - where she - no more was found: -
The seat at table she was wont to fill;
The fireside chair, still set, but vacant still;
The garden-walks, a labour all her own;
The latticed bower, with trailing shrubs o'ergrown;
The Sunday pew she fill'd with all her race, -
Each place of hers was now a sacred place:
That, while it call'd up sorrows in the eyes,
Pierced the full heart, and forced them still to rise.
Ye sigh not when the sun, his course fulfilled,
His glorious course, rejoicing earth and sky,
In the soft evening, when the winds are stilled,
Sinks where his islands of departure spread
O'er the warm-colored heaven and ruddy mountain head.
Why weep ye then for him, who, having won
The bound of man's appointed years, at last.
Life's blessings all enjoyed, life's labors done,
Serenely to his final rest has passed;
While the soft memory of his virtues yet
Lingers like twilight hues, when the bright sun is set?
What! and not one to heave the pious sigh!
Not one whose sorrow-swoln and aching eye
For social scenes, for life's endearments fled,
Shall drop a tear and dwell upon the dead!
Poor wretched Outcast! I will weep for thee,
And sorrow for forlorn humanity.
Yes I will weep, but not that thou art come
To the stern Sabbath of the silent tomb:
For squalid Want, and the black scorpion Care,
Heart-withering fiends! shall never enter there.
I sorrow for the ills thy life has known
As thro' the world's long pilgrimage, alone,
Haunted by Poverty and woe-begone,
Unloved, unfriended, thou didst journey on:
Thy youth in ignorance and labour past,
And thine old age all barrenness and blast!
Hard was thy Fate, which, while it doom'd to woe,
Denied thee wisdom to support the blow;
And robb'd of all its energy thy mind,
Ere yet it cast thee on thy fellow-kind,
Abject of thought, the victim of distress,
To wander in the world's wide wilderness.
Poor Outcast sleep in peace! the wintry storm
Blows bleak no more on thine unshelter'd form;
Thy woes are past; thou restest in the tomb;--
I pause--and ponder on the days to come.
The muffled drum rolled on the air,
Warriors, with stately step, were there;
On every arm was the black crape bound,
Every carbine was turned to the ground;
Solemn, the sound of their measured tread,
As silent and slow, they followed the dead.
The riderless horse was led in the rear;
There were white plumes waving over the bier;
Helmet and sword were laid on the pall,
For, it was a soldier's funeral.
That soldier had stood on the battle plain,
Where every step was over the slain;
But the brand and the ball had passed him by,
And he came to his native land, to die.
'Twas hard to come to that native land,
And not clasp one familiar hand;
'Twas hard to be numbered amid the dead,
Before he could hear his welcome said.
But, 'twas something to see its cliffs once more,
And to lay his bones on his own loved shore;
To think, that the friends of his youth might weep,
O'er the green grass turf of the soldier's sleep.
The bugles ceased their wailing sound,
As the coffin was lowered into the ground;
A volley was fired, a blessing said,
One moment's pause, and they left the dead.
I saw a poor and aged man -
His step was feeble, his cheek was wan;
He knelt him down on the new-raised mound,
His face was bowed on the cold damp ground;
He raised his head, his tears were done -
The father had prayed o'er his only son.
I.
Thus long my grief has kept me dumb:
Sure there's a lethargy in mighty woe,
Tears stand congealed, and cannot flow;
And the sad soul retires into her inmost room:
Tears, for a stroke foreseen, afford relief;
But, unprovided for a sudden blow,
Like Niobe, we marble grow,
And petrify with grief.
Our British heaven was all serene,
No threatening cloud was nigh,
Not the least wrinkle to deform the sky;
We lived as unconcerned and happily
As the first age in nature's golden scene;
Supine amidst our flowing store,
We slept securely, and we dreamt of more;
When suddenly the thunder-clap was heard,
It took us, unprepared, and out of guard,
Already lost before we feared.
The amazing news of Charles at once were spread,
At once the general voice declared,
“Our gracious prince was dead.”
No sickness known before, no slow disease,
To soften grief by just degrees;
But, like a hurricane on Indian seas,
The tempest rose;
An unexpected burst of woes.
With scarce a breathing space betwixt,
This now becalmed, and perishing the next.
As if great Atlas from his height
Should sink beneath his heavenly weight,
And, with a mighty flaw, the flaming wall,
As once it shall,
Should gape immense, and, rushing down, o'erwhelm this nether ball;
So swift and so surprising was our fear:
Our Atlas fell indeed; but Hercules was near.
II.
His pious brother, sure the best
Who ever bore that name,
Was newly risen from his rest,
And, with a fervent flame,
His usual morning vows had just addressed,
For his dear sovereign's health;
And hoped to have them heard,
In long increase of years,
In honour, fame, and wealth:
Guiltless of greatness, thus he always prayed,
Nor knew nor wished those vows he made,
On his own head should be repaid.
Soon as the ill-omen'd rumour reached his ear,
(Ill news is winged with fate, and flies apace),
Who can describe the amazement in his face!
Horror in all his pomp was there,
Mute and magnificent, without a tear;
And then the hero first was seen to fear.
Half unarrayed he ran to his relief,
So hasty and so artless was his grief:
Approaching greatness met him with her charms
Of power and future state;
But looked so ghastly in a brother's fate,
He shook her from his arms.
Arrived within the mournful room, he saw
A wild distraction, void of awe,
And arbitrary grief unbounded by a law.
God's image, God's anointed, lay
Without motion, pulse, or breath,
A senseless lump of sacred clay,
An image now of death,
Amidst his sad attendants' groans and cries,
The lines of that adored forgiving face,
Distorted from their native grace;
An iron slumber sat on his majestic eyes.
The pious duke—Forbear, audacious muse!
No terms thy feeble art can use
Are able to adorn so vast a woe:
The grief of all the rest like subject-grief did show
His, like a sovereign's, did transcend;
No wife, no brother, such a grief could know,
Nor any name but friend.
III.
O wondrous changes of a fatal scene,
Still varying to the last!
Heaven, though its hard decree was past,
Seemed pointing to a gracious turn again:
And death's uplifted arm arrested in its haste.
Heaven half repented of the doom,
And almost grieved it had foreseen,
What by foresight it willed eternally to come.
Mercy above did hourly plead
For her resemblance here below;
And mild forgiveness intercede
To stop the coming blow.
New miracles approached the ethereal throne,
Such as his wondrous life had oft and lately known,
And urged that still they might be shown.
On earth his pious brother prayed and vowed,
Renouncing greatness at so dear a rate,
Himself defending what he could,
From all the glories of his future fate.
With him the innumerable crowd
Of armed prayers
Knocked at the gates of heaven, and knocked aloud;
The first well-meaning rude petitioners.
All for his life assailed the throne,
All would have bribed the skies by offering up their own.
So great a throng, not heaven itself could bar;
'Twas almost borne by force, as in the giants' war.
The prayers, at least, for his reprieve were heard;
His death, like Hezekiah's, was deferred:
Against the sun the shadow went;
Five days, those five degrees, were lent,
To form our patience, and prepare the event.
The second causes took the swift command,
The medicinal head, the ready hand,
All eager to perform their part;
All but eternal doom was conquered by their art:
Once more the fleeting soul came back
To inspire the mortal frame;
And in the body took a doubtful stand,
Doubtful and hovering, like expiring flame,
That mounts and falls by turns, and trembles o'er the brand.
IV.
The joyful short-lived news soon spread around,
Took the same train, the same impetuous bound:
The drooping town in smiles again was drest,
Gladness in every face exprest,
Their eyes before their tongues confest.
Men met each other with erected look,
The steps were higher that they took;
Friends to congratulate their friends made haste,
And long inveterate foes saluted as they passed.
Above the rest heroic James appeared,
Exalted more, because he more had feared.
His manly heart, whose noble pride
Was still above
Dissembled hate, or varnished love,
Its more than common transport could not hide;
But like an eagre rode in triumph o'er the tide.
Thus, in alternate course,
The tyrant passions, hope and fear,
Did in extremes appear,
And flashed upon the soul with equal force.
Thus, at half ebb, a rolling sea
Returns, and wins upon the shore;
The watery herd, affrighted at the roar,
Rest on their fins awhile, and stay,
Then backward take their wondering way:
The prophet wonders more than they,
At prodigies but rarely seen before,
And cries,—“A king must fall, or kingdoms change their sway.”
Such were our counter-tides at land, and so
Presaging of the fatal blow,
In their prodigious ebb and flow.
The royal soul, that, like the labouring moon,
By charms of art was hurried down,
Forced with regret to leave her native sphere,
Came but a while on liking here,
Soon weary of the painful strife,
And made but faint essays of life:
An evening light
Soon shut in night;
A strong distemper, and a weak relief,
Short intervals of joy, and long returns of grief.
V.
The sons of art all med'cines tried,
And every noble remedy applied;
With emulation each essayed
His utmost skill; nay, more, they prayed:
Never was losing game with better conduct played.
Death never won a stake with greater toil,
Nor e'er was fate so near a foil:
But, like a fortress on a rock,
The impregnable disease their vain attempts did mock;
They mined it near, they battered from afar
With all the cannon of the medicinal war;
No gentle means could be essayed,
'Twas beyond parley when the siege was laid.
The extremest ways they first ordain,
Prescribing such intolerable pain,
As none but Cæsar could sustain:
Undaunted Cæsar underwent
The malice of their art, nor bent
Beneath whate'er their pious rigour could invent.
In five such days he suffered more
Than any suffered in his reign before;
More, infinitely more, than he
Against the worst of rebels could decree,
A traitor, or twice pardoned enemy.
Now art was tired without success,
No racks could make the stubborn malady confess.
The vain insurancers of life,
And he who most performed, and promised less,
Even Short himself, forsook the unequal strife.
Death and despair was in their looks,
No longer they consult their memories or books;
Like helpless friends, who view from shore
The labouring ship, and hear the tempest roar;
So stood they with their arms across,
Not to assist, but to deplore
The inevitable loss.
VI.
Death was denounced; that frightful sound
Which even the best can hardly bear;
He took the summons void of fear,
And unconcernedly cast his eyes around,
As if to find and dare the grisly challenger.
What death could do he lately tried,
When in four days he more than died.
The same assurance all his words did grace;
The same majestic mildness held its place;
Nor lost the monarch in his dying face.
Intrepid, pious, merciful, and brave,
He looked as when he conquered and forgave.
VII.
As if some angel had been sent
To lengthen out his government,
And to foretell as many years again,
As he had numbered in his happy reign;
So cheerfully he took the doom
Of his departing breath,
Nor shrunk nor stept aside for death;
But, with unaltered pace, kept on,
Providing for events to come,
When he resigned the throne.
Still he maintained his kingly state,
And grew familiar with his fate.
Kind, good, and gracious, to the last,
On all he loved before his dying beams he cast:
Oh truly good, and truly great,
For glorious as he rose, benignly so he set!
All that on earth he held most dear,
He recommended to his care,
To whom both heaven
The right had given,
And his own love bequeathed supreme command:
He took and prest that ever-loyal hand,
Which could, in peace, secure his reign;
Which could, in wars, his power maintain;
That hand on which no plighted vows were ever vain.
Well, for so great a trust, he chose
A prince, who never disobeyed;
Not when the most severe commands were laid;
Nor want, nor exile, with his duty weighed:
A prince on whom, if heaven its eyes could close,
The welfare of the world it safely might repose.
VIII.
That king, who lived to God's own heart,
Yet less serenely died than he;
Charles left behind no harsh decree,
For schoolmen with laborious art,
To salve from cruelty:
Those, for whom love could no excuses frame,
He graciously forgot to name.
Thus far my muse, though rudely, has designed
Some faint resemblance of his godlike mind;
But neither pen nor pencil can express
The parting brothers' tenderness;
Though that's a term too mean and low;
The blest above a kinder word may know:
But what they did, and what they said,
The monarch who triumphant went,
The militant who staid,
Like painters, when their heightening arts are spent,
I cast into a shade.
That all-forgiving king,
The type of him above,
That inexhausted spring
Of clemency and love,
Himself to his next self accused,
And asked that pardon which he ne'er refused;
For faults not his, for guilt and crimes
Of godless men, and of rebellious times;
For an hard exile, kindly meant,
When his ungrateful country sent
Their best Camillus into banishment,
And forced their sovereign's act, they could not his consent.
Oh how much rather had that injured chief
Repeated all his sufferings past,
Than hear a pardon begged at last,
Which, given, could give the dying no relief!
He bent, he sunk beneath his grief;
His dauntless heart would fain have held
From weeping, but his eyes rebelled.
Perhaps the godlike hero, in his breast,
Disdained, or was ashamed to show,
So weak, so womanish a woe,
Which yet the brother and the friend so plenteously confest.
IX.
Amidst that silent shower, the royal mind
An easy passage found,
And left its sacred earth behind;
Nor murmuring groan expressed, nor labouring sound,
Nor any least tumultuous breath;
Calm was his life, and quiet was his death.
Soft as those gentle whispers were,
In which the Almighty did appear;
By the still voice the prophet knew him there.
That peace which made thy prosperous reign to shine,
That peace thou leav'st to thy imperial line,
That peace, Oh happy shade, be ever thine!
X.
For all those joys thy restoration brought,
For all the miracles it wrought,
For all the healing balm thy mercy poured
Into the nation's bleeding wound,
And care, that after kept it sound,
For numerous blessings yearly showered,
And property with plenty crowned;
For freedom, still maintained alive,
Freedom, which in no other land will thrive,
Freedom, an English subject's sole prerogative,
Without whose charms, even peace would be
But a dull quiet slavery;—
For these, and more, accept our pious praise;
'Tis all the subsidy
The present age can raise,
The rest is charged on late posterity.
Posterity is charged the more,
Because the large abounding store
To them, and to their heirs, is still entailed by thee.
Succession of a long descent,
Which chastely in the channels ran,
And from our demi-gods began,
Equal almost to time in its extent,
Through hazards numberless and great,
Thou hast derived this mighty blessing down,
And fixed the fairest gem that decks the imperial crown:
Not faction, when it shook thy regal seat,
Not senates, insolently loud,
Those echoes of a thoughtless crowd,
Not foreign or domestic treachery,
Could warp thy soul to their unjust decree.
So much thy foes thy manly mind mistook,
Who judged it by the mildness of thy look;
Like a well-tempered sword, it bent at will,
But kept the native toughness of the steel.
XI.
Be true, O Clio, to thy hero's name;
But draw him strictly so,
That all who view the piece may know,
He needs no trappings of fictitious fame.
The load's too weighty; thou may'st choose
Some parts of praise, and some refuse;
Write, that his annals may be thought more lavish than the muse.
In scanty truth thou hast confined
The virtues of a royal mind,
Forgiving, bounteous, humble, just, and kind:
His conversation, wit, and parts,
His knowledge in the noblest useful arts,
Were such, dead authors could not give;
But habitudes of those who live,
Who, lighting him, did greater lights receive:
He drained from all, and all they knew;
His apprehension quick, his judgment true,
That the most learned, with shame, confess
His knowledge more, his reading only less.
XII.
Amidst the peaceful triumphs of his reign,
What wonder, if the kingly beams he shed
Revived the drooping arts again,
If science raised her head,
And soft humanity, that from rebellion fled.
Our isle, indeed, too fruitful was before;
But all uncultivated lay
Out of the solar walk, and heaven's high way;
With rank Geneva weeds run o'er,
And cockle, at the best, amidst the corn it bore:
The royal husbandman appeared,
And ploughed, and sowed, and tilled;
The thorns he rooted out, the rubbish cleared,
And blest the obedient field.
When straight a double harvest rose,
Such as the swarthy Indian mows,
Or happier climates near the Line,
Or paradise manured, and drest by hands divine.
XIII.
As when the new-born phœnix takes his way,
His rich paternal regions to survey,
Of airy choristers a numerous train
Attend his wondrous progress o'er the plain;
So, rising from his father's urn,
So glorious did our Charles return;
The officious muses came along,
A gay harmonious quire, like angels ever young;
The muse, that mourns him now, his happy triumph sung.
Even they could thrive in his auspicious reign;
And such a plenteous crop they bore
Of purest and well-winnowed grain,
As Britain never knew before.
Though little was their hire, and light their gain,
Yet somewhat to their share he threw;
Fed from his hand, they sung and flew,
Like birds of paradise, that lived on morning dew.
Oh never let their lays his name forget!
The pension of a prince's praise is great.
Live then, thou great encourager of arts,
Live ever in our thankful hearts;
Live blest above, almost invoked below;
Live and receive this pious vow,
Our patron once, our guardian angel now!
Thou Fabius of a sinking state,
Who didst by wise delays divert our fate,
When faction like a tempest rose,
In death's most hideous form,
Then art to rage thou didst oppose,
To weather out the storm;
Not quitting thy supreme command,
Thou heldst the rudder with a steady hand,
Till safely on the shore the bark did land;
The bark, that all our blessings brought,
Charged with thyself and James, a doubly-royal fraught.
XIV.
Oh frail estate of human things,
And slippery hopes below!
Now to our cost your emptiness we know;
For 'tis a lesson dearly bought,
Assurance here is never to be sought.
The best, and best beloved of kings,
And best deserving to be so,
When scarce he had escaped the fatal blow
Of faction and conspiracy,
Death did his promised hopes destroy;
He toiled, he gained, but lived not to enjoy.
What mists of Providence are these
Through which we cannot see!
So saints, by supernatural power set free,
Are left at last in martyrdom to die;
Such is the end of oft-repeated miracles.—
Forgive me, heaven, that impious thought,
'Twas grief for Charles, to madness wrought,
That questioned thy supreme decree!
Thou didst his gracious reign prolong,
Even in thy saints' and angels' wrong,
His fellow-citizens of immortality:
For twelve long years of exile borne,
Twice twelve we numbered since his blest return:
So strictly wert thou just to pay,
Even to the driblet of a day.
Yet still we murmur, and complain
The quails and manna should no longer rain:
Those miracles 'twas needless to renew;
The chosen flock has now the promised land in view.
XV.
A warlike prince ascends the regal state,
A prince long exercised by fate:
Long may he keep, though he obtains it late!
Heroes in heaven's peculiar mould are cast;
They, and their poets, are not formed in haste;
Man was the first in God's design, and man was made the last.
False heroes, made by flattery so,
Heaven can strike out, like sparkles, at a blow;
But ere a prince is to perfection brought,
He costs Omnipotence a second thought.
With toil and sweat,
With hardening cold, and forming heat,
The Cyclops did their strokes repeat,
Before the impenetrable shield was wrought.
It looks as if the Maker would not own
The noble work for his,
Before 'twas tried and found a master-piece.
XVI.
View then a monarch ripened for a throne.
Alcides thus his race began,
O'er infancy he swiftly ran;
The future god at first was more than man:
Dangers and toils, and Juno's hate,
Even o'er his cradle lay in wait,
And there he grappled first with fate;
In his young hands the hissing snakes he prest,
So early was the Deity confest;
Thus, by degrees, he rose to Jove's imperial seat;
Thus difficulties prove a soul legitimately great.
Like his, our hero's infancy was tried;
Betimes the furies did their snakes provide,
And to his infant arms oppose
His father's rebels, and his brother's foes;
The more opprest, the higher still he rose.
Those were the preludes of his fate,
That formed his manhood, to subdue
The hydra of the many-headed hissing crew.
XVII.
As after Numa's peaceful reign,
The martial Ancus did the sceptre wield,
Furbished the rusty sword again,
Resumed the long-forgotten shield,
And led the Latins to the dusty field;
So James the drowsy genius wakes
Of Britain long entranced in charms,
Restiff and slumbering on its arms;
'Tis roused, and, with a new-strung nerve, the spear already shakes.
No neighing of the warrior steeds,
No drum, or louder trumpet, needs
To inspire the coward, warm the cold;
His voice, his sole appearance, makes them bold.
Gaul and Batavia dread the impending blow;
Too well the vigour of that arm they know;
They lick the dust, and crouch beneath their fatal foe.
Long may they fear this awful prince,
And not provoke his lingering sword;
Peace is their only sure defence,
Their best security his word.
In all the changes of his doubtful state,
His truth, like heaven's, was kept inviolate;
For him to promise is to make it fate.
His valour can triumph o'er land and main;
With broken oaths his fame he will not stain;
With conquest basely bought, and with inglorious gain.
XVIII.
For once, O heaven, unfold thy adamantine book;
And let his wondering senate see,
If not thy firm immutable decree,
At least the second page of strong contingency,
Such as consists with wills, originally free.
Let them with glad amazement look
On what their happiness may be;
Let them not still be obstinately blind,
Still to divert the good thou hast designed,
Or, with malignant penury,
To starve the royal virtues of his mind.
Faith is a Christian's and a subject's test;
Oh give them to believe, and they are surely blest.
They do; and with a distant view I see
The amended vows of English loyalty;
And all beyond that object, there appears
The long retinue of a prosperous reign,
A series of successful years,
In orderly array, a martial, manly train.
Behold e'en the remoter shores,
A conquering navy proudly spread;
The British cannon formidably roars,
While, starting from his oozy bed,
The asserted Ocean rears his reverend head,
To view and recognise his ancient lord again;
And with a willing hand, restores
The fasces of the main.
Рояль, будильник, телефон
Заткнутся  к черту.
Псу сахарную косточку кидай.
Гробовщиков, продавших гроб,
Хвали и одари рублем.
Аэроплан на небе
Пусть разгонит облака.
И струи выхлопного газа
Чертят - МЕРТВ ОН.
На шеях  голубей плакаты
Пусть сообщают новость ВСЕМ.
Дорожный полисмен,
Следящий за порядком на шоссе,
Оденет  черные перчатки.
Он был как компас.
Мне показывал
На север, юг,
На запад, на восток.
Руководил в рабочие часы,
И управлял прогулкой
По субботам.
Я думал это вечно
Будет продолжаться.
Теперь ни звезд, ни лун,
Ни света солнца не хочу.
Теперь осталось
Океану высыхать.
И некому в лесу
Кострище шуровать.
Теперь добра не сыщешь.
W.H. Auden
Funeral Blues
- 1 -
Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone,
Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone,
Silence the pianos and with muffled drum
Bring out the coffin, let the mourners come.
Let aeroplanes circle moaning overhead
Scribbling on the sky the message He Is Dead,
Put crepe bows round the white necks of the public
doves,
Let the traffic policemen wear black cotton gloves.
He was my North, my South, my East and West,
My working week and my Sunday rest,
My noon, my midnight, my talk, my song;
I thought that love would last for ever: I was wrong.
The stars are not wanted now: put out every one;
Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun;
Pour away the ocean and sweep up the wood.
For nothing now can ever come to any good.
18th November 1852
“VICTORY!”
So once more the cry must be.
Duteous mourning we fulfil
In God's name; but by God's will,
Doubt not, the last word is still
“Victory!”
Funeral,
In the music round this pall,
Solemn grief yields earth to earth;
But what tones of solemn mirth
In the pageant of new birth
Rise and fall?
For indeed,
If our eyes were openèd,
Who shall say what escort floats
Here, which breath nor gleam denotes,—
Fiery horses, chariots
Fire-footed?
Trumpeter,
Even thy call he may not hear;
Long-known voice for ever past,
Till with one more trumpet-blast
God's assuring word at last
Reach his ear.
Multitude,
Hold your breath in reverent mood:
For while earth's whole kindred stand
Mute even thus on either hand,
This soul's labour shall be scann'd
And found good.
Cherubim,
Lift ye not even now your hymn?
Lo! once lent for human lack,
Michael's sword is rendered back.
Thrills not now the starry track,
Seraphim?
Gabriel,
Since the gift of thine “All hail!”
Out of Heaven no time hath brought
Gift with fuller blessing fraught
Than the peace which this man wrought
Passing well.
Be no word
Raised of bloodshed Christ-abhorr'd.
Say: “'Twas thus in His decrees
Who Himself, the Prince of Peace,
For His harvest's high increase
Sent a sword.”
Veterans,
He by whom the neck of France
Then was given unto your heel,
Timely sought, may lend as well
To your sons his terrible
Countenance.
Waterloo!
As the last grave must renew,
Ere fresh death, the banshee-strain,—
So methinks upon thy plain
Falls some presage in the rain,
In the dew.
And O thou,
Watching, with an exile's brow
Unappeased, o'er death's dumb flood:—
Lo! the saving strength of God
In some new heart's English blood
Slumbers now.
Emperor,
Is this all thy work was for?—
Thus to see thy self-sought aim,
Yea thy titles, yea thy name,
In another's shame, to shame
Bandied o'er?
Thy great work is but begun.
With quick seed his end is rife
Whose long tale of conquering strife
Shows no triumph like his life
Lost and won.
sitting alone with nowhere to go
ignoring the static from the radio
that interrupts my favorite song
haven’t loved it in so long
some say love is a foolish thing
and although not in all cases
i can’t help but agree
with the smarter majority
so many weddings
just white funerals
a hand to hold
for the rest of her life
open to the bliss
and the carelessness
be careful, more careful
does it still feel right
i’ll apologize in all the places
where i frowned at all the smiling faces
i just wonder if that will be me
with a wedding dress and a history
so much thought in an august moment
i’m living in my favorite season
but winter’s here, and taking control
as we let the rest of our days unfold
so many weddings
just white funerals
someone she barely knows
becomes her life
open to neglect
and disrespect
that comes with the one
she loved last night
i think of someone i know
better than anyone
i think i’ll be more optomistic
when this is done
can’t help but to think
that my white funeral
won’t be a funeral at all
because i know him
she doesn’t know him
so many weddings
just white funerals
but i’m so glad
that won’t be mine
open to his
fuffilled promises
he knows who i am
we’ll be fine
the white funeral is over
the bride’s been burried
in her own mistake
Thou too art dead, ---! very kind
Hast thou been to me in my childish days,
Thou best good creature. I have not forgot
How thou didst love thy Charles, when he was yet
A prating school-boy: I have not forgot
The busy joy on that important day,
When, child-like, the poor wanderer was content
To leave the bosom of parental love,
His childhood's play-place, and his early home,
For the rude fosterings of a stranger's hand,
Hard uncouth tasks, and school-boy's scanty fare.
How did thine eye peruse him round and round,
And hardly know him in his yellow coats[1],
Red leathern belt, and gown of russet blue!
Farewell, good aunt!
Go thou, and occupy the same grave-bed
Where the dead mother lies.
Oh my dear mother, oh thou dear dead saint!
Where's now that placid face, where oft hath sat
A mother's smile, to think her son should thrive
In this bad world, when she was dead and gone;
And where a tear hath sat (take shame, O son!)
When that same child has prov'd himself unkind.
One parent yet is left-a wretched thing,
A sad survivor of his buried wife,
A palsy-smitten, childish, old, old man,
A semblance most forlorn of what he was,
A merry cheerful man. A merrier man,
A man more apt to frame matter for mirth,
Mad jokes, and anticks for a Christmas eve;
Making life social, and the laggard time
To move on nimbly, never yet did cheer
The little circle of domestic friends.
February 1797
uncle john badly wants
to be the president  of
the United States
because he thinks
that's  the only smart  thing
an old man can do
and auntie Sarah badly
wants to be his
Vice President
because she thinks
that's the only pretty thing
a lady from Alaska can
hope to do
she even thinks it can
keep the body warm
better than the moose
and the polar bears
and who does not want
to be a VP of a president of 72?
it is just a step, a breath away from
becoming President
and  the shoe fits so well
but there is a little hurdle
uncle john cannot seem
able to cross
uncle john cant  see
the difference between the
A and  Z of the costs
to run the country, on
gas, regular petrol or
on premium
and when the banks come
tumbling down
he is laughing and rolling
cheering everybody: up:
'dont dont run, dont cow,
it is just the money
rolling down.
the foundation is
strong. the foundation is strong
just dont  you run,
it is just the banks'
new investment calls.'
and  and auntie Salleh
oh oh no, no, no
while sitting  on television
for  the interview of her life
she cant think about anything
but begs to call  her friends
to help her out
Oh my lifelines, my lifelines
where are the moose?
where are the polar bears?
the pitbulls? hockey moms?
and my lipsticks....errrr
adria moya, hmm you do not like your name to be written in the poem
the problem with me is that
i am hardheaded and i am the kind of boy who does what mother
does not like me to do
i am naughty and so here i am
in all my mischief
adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny?
hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha ha
do you see the train of hahahaha
come let us ride on it and forget the sad things of our lives
i will make another one the train of
tralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralal atralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralal atralalatralalatralala
it is the train of dance and laughter
come, come, come,
let us be there, what is the use of being what they want you to be?
the place is here and it must be a place of fun and laughter
and something so divine later.
big smile
finger wags at sister
bath drains
no knickers
pink bottom, crinkled
boy's eyes, wide!
no make up,
naked face at door
milkman cries
abbreviation
Big Unexpected Nose cut
they call it a BUN
i get a funny feeling
it comes for deep in side
i get all mad and angry
wanting to go and hide
my doctor calls it depression
my dad says its just me
but the thoughts and feeling
no one will ever be able to see
some say im psycho
some say im weird
its like im a different person
and the old me just disappeared
i get really edgy
i want to die real bad
then i get a headache
followed by feeling sad
i wish it would go away
maybe if i keep praying real hard
it will someday
Taking my little concerns and miniature
plans too seriously instead of laughing
at myself, telling all with shiny eyes of
my new ideals, taking new medication
enabling me to eat less and sitting still
for longer periods
The sitting still is happening, but without
a large dose of interest, is quite useless,
mind growing bored tries to veer off, yet
discipline keeps me at my desk without
accomplishment, boredom grows as I
fail to find islands
Of glorious escapism to give my feelings
a break from cold emptiness, floundering
I cast about, the world shrinking to fit into
my aching head changing me into a use-
less robot without interest, passion or
ideal - immobile
Without feeling and emotion - without
conscience to power movement of my
head and eyes, reading words without
understanding anything, unable to set
priorities - I have become a useless
robot - at least
I used to be a funny human being
Beautifully
you enter the room
Everyone turns
to absorb the splendour
of you.
Your angelic way
shines, as you lower
your chin and smile.
Flawless eyes
like diamonds keep
the room mesmerised
filling their
hearts with smiles.
Your long
flowing brunette
hair, as if touched
by the hands
of angels
caresses the beauty
of your soft neck.
A sweet aroma
floods our senses
to the very perfume
of you.
Elegantly, you
glide over the room
as if carried
by the hands
of God.
You gaze into
my eyes with your
arms out wide
and reward me
with the kindness
of your beautiful
soul, and so romantically
say.
Here, eat your bloody
dinner before it
gets cold.
© Jon.London 2009
Oldie is dreamy
Really it is funny
Sun may not have remained sunny
It might have been witnessed by you and not by many
It might have come out from west
You might have gone for its test
Your may be searching for the rest
You prove to be dreamer and try for best
We see so many irrelevant things
It certainly to do something
The chain of thoughts goes on continuously
It is useless thinking if we admit honestly
We can’t base our plan on dreamy side
The reality and fact may remain open very wide
It may have pleasant side in the isolation
It has nothing to do with facts or relation
Still it is nice resort
We have so many comforts
Things move on as per our wish
The end has got very nice finish
Why it makes you so much happy?
You find beautiful girls to marry?
The sun doesn’t get set at all
It is always pleasant and happy call
Reveal it not for even for amusement
You may invite adverse comments
For you it may be fine moment
Enjoy it to self and make good movement
all the money
to the last penny
was found to be proxy
in that country
all essentials
should be freely available
the governance ordered
which brought in this disorder
who does not have a need
for the essentials
right from the cop to the thief
had a need for it that day
opened stores were looted
closed one's were broke open
hand in glove were they
the cop and the thief
a commotion in town
every law broken
the temples barren
even the priest lost his calm
a situation which would not calm down
the governing body had almost broke down
a let loose situation for the hooligans
WHO DOES NOT HAVE A NEED FOR ESSENTIALS
GOD INTERVENED
A FUNNY SITUATION DEMANDED...
A SUPER POWER'S INTERVENTION
AN EARTH QUAKE ROCKED THE TOWN
ALL LOOTERS WERE DRIVEN OUT OF STORES
TO SEE MAN MADE ESSENTIALS CRUMBLE
LIFE THE MOST ESSENTIAL
Welcome to the Colosseum
Where pain is pleasure and it is our pleasure to be of service
Lay back on the rack
The waxing poetics are hot and the iced humor is very dry
The fence sitter splinters are sharp but the elitist tongues are sharper
There are many painful pleasures which abound
We guarantee your total satisfaction
Or we'll give you fifty lashes of your back for free
For no one ever enters with a smile
Who doesn't leave here with a grimace
(2007)
There once was a sister,
who loved to kiss her mister.
Til' one day she came home,
and saw her mister with her sister.
The funny thing is, he would still be here,
If he just wouldn't of kissed her.
Boy I sure am glad I was not her sister!
But even more so that I got to MEET her mister!
In the good old system,
It was the usual custom,
Where teachers lived,
Their students stayed.
The students, beside studies,
Did teachers' household duties,
Be it any work indoor,
Or it was an errand outdoor.
Once, ten students brainless,
Joined a teacher useless,
In a remote village house,
Under the care of his spouse.
They watched one day,
A red hot spoon, the lady
Dropped in a water pool,
For the spoon to cool.
When one of them got fever,
The rest poured cold water,
To cool him down, instead,
Fever raised hot and red.
The ten, once, crossed a river,
And to check up the number,
One stood outside the line,
And the rest formed the line.
The man outside counted nine,
And searched for the tenth one.
Every one did the same, in turn
Found they were short by one.
An old man heard their cry,
To help the fools free from shy,
Asked them to stand in line,
And counted right all the ten.
'A sewing needle, get
Me from the market, '
So ordered the Spouse
Of their master's house.
Four of them went out,
And a needle they bought,
But how it should be carried,
They disputed and argued.
A plantain tree they cut,
At the center pinned it,
And carried the tree home,
With mouth full of foam.
The lady chided them all,
And picked up the needle,
Cursing her ruling stars,
That brought her such fools.
Damn the skirt that had me fell.
Never drool at bawdy damsels,
have a way with magic spells.
Turn you topsy and do pell-mell.
Darn, twisted foot that had me bent.
Showed my behind, a strategic rent.
Blithely swaying, her hand she lent.
In a hoarse report my airs were vent.
Poof! She mocked'n touched her lips.
Shifted weight to jiggle her hips.
Looked I up in an awkward gaze.
Allowed my self a feigned daze.
Hush I gawked at the straining zips.
Torso taut and wow! Jutting tips.
Saw me feast and tossed her head.
Woosh! There went, a tangle of red.
Silence fell as everyone looked.
Oh me gosh, now she's booked.
Mere stubble, on a balding crop.
Without her wig, what a flop!
Devious eyed, I eased my ‘self'
So did, all the gnomes and elf!
By this time, the crowd was near.
Shifty eyes now showed her fear.
Amid loud hoots and raunchy jeers.
Leather boots and bubbling beers.
Woe be gone and half in tears.
Stomped her feet and showed her rear.
(Islamabad)
(Vintage  1996…from files)
Its simply the best.
Chemistry's betther than all the rest
Cause Mrs Rowen treats us the best.
Let's lay her in the ground and put her to rest.
We buried her deep and dark
She was left buck naked in the park.
We buried her chemistry book with her, so never again could she say she was right.
We had left her in the pitch black of the night.
We shall hear her voice 'girls are you following the book'
'yes miss' we reply and give her an evil look.
If you double the pressure, the volume will half.
We stuck the cross int he dirt and had a good laugh.
P1/T1=P2/T2 how is this going to help me decide what occupation to do?
We dug her up just for one last look.
But we found her reading theat bloody chemistry book.
Her mouth was open,
Her mouth was in a wiry grin
We could tell by her breath that she'd been drinking gin.
We stole her book and closed the coffin lid.
We buried her deeper, oh yes we did.
Our cross still stands.
Your'e a champ if you know Boyles law.
It will give you a top grade in the HSC for sure.
She once was an OK teacher
But now shes nothing but a chemistry preacher.
Dreams of her smiling down upon us asking 'where are you up to? '
I know whats going through her mind
What is the next chemical she adds to her deadly brew.
Na Chmistry hoti na main Student hota
Na yeah Lab hoti Na Yeah Accident Hota
Abhi Practical main ayee nazar Ek Larki
Sundar thi Naak Us ki Test Tube Jaisi
Batoon main Us ki Glucose ki Mithas thi
Sansoon main Eter ki Khushboo bhi sath thi
Ankhoon se jhalakta tha kuch is Tarah ka Payar
Bin Piye hi ho jata Tha Alcohol ka Khumar
Benzene sa hota tha Uski Presence ka Ehsas
Andhere main hota tha Radium ka Abhas
Nazrain milien, reaction huwa
Kuch is tarah Love ka Production huwa
Lagne lagay Us ke Ghar ke Chakar aisay
Nucleus ke charon taraf Electron hoon jaisay
Us din hamaray Test ka Confirmation huwa
Jab us ke dady se hamara Introduction huwa
Sun kar hamari baat wo aisay Uchal pare
Ignesium Tube main jaise Sodium Bharak uthe
Wo bole, Hosh main aao, Pahchano apni Auwqat
Iron mil nahin sakta kabhi Gold ke saath
Ye sun ker Tuta hamaray Armanoon Bhara Beaker
Aur hum Chup rahay Benzeldehyde ka Karwa Ghoont pee ker
Ab us ki yadoon ke siwa hamara Kam chalta na tha
Aur Lab main hamaray Dil ke siwa kuch jalta na tha
Zindagi ho gaye Unsaturated Hydrocarbon ki Tarah
Aur hum phirte hain Awara Hydrogen ki Tarah.
I didn't chop my fingers.
They're just short and pink and fat.
I didn't chop my fingers
when I went CHOP, CHOP, like that!
I didn't chop my fingers
when I climbed up on the chair.
I've still got ALL my fingers,
and there's NO blood, ANYWHERE.
YOU might chop your fingers
if you play with Grandma's knife.
Just don't go in Grandma's kitchen,
if you want a peaceful life.
Grandma keeps the gate shut.
She won't even let you SEE,
all the poison in her cupboards,
and hot things for cooking tea.
She's got knives and forks and scissors, AND electric plug in toys.
And I'm not allowed to have them, 'cause I'm just a LITTLE boy.
When I get much bigger,
life won't be such a bore.
I'll have knives and forks and scissors,
AND a HUGE chainsaw.
Down on the Funny Farm
where some say I was born
where laughter is the key
that trips a smile
to whoever visits there.
There is no time
to feel moody or forlorn,
not with a crazy sod like me around.
Howls of laughter echo
from every room.
Now even the animals
have joined in the game
at our home the Funny Farm,
the place some say I was born.
sometimes busy is good usually
I have very busy been recently
busy exposing my funny side
as I get older my funny side
becomes more obvious irretrievably
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
hei, hei, hei, hei,
heih, heih, heih, heih,
who says one, is only one?
One only one and remain only one,
One and one not make eleven,
join to make it, only remain one,
one will always remain only one,
try, try and try, one will remain one
One mixing with one
make it within one,
one minus one will not remain one;
life is zero without only one,
Even God is one, add no more one,
Add more and more, may not look even,
Christ is one, Allah is one,
They represent one. Mighty only one,
Heaven is one, hell also one,
universe is one and earth also one,
Good is one and bad also one,
kind may be different but meaning only one
What is continent and what is region?
Who is African and who is Asian?
What is Chilean and what is Nigerian?
Someone may come and say I am Serbian,
Not all religions but only human one,
Love them all and hate no one,
reject no one and extend embrace,
No love and hate but smiling only face
I continue to bow,
Lye always low,
Love to man and woman,
Oh, God, show me only one
Love and hate can’t ever one,
sorrow and joy also not one,
poles remain apart and not called one,
Only HE may appear omni and look only one
I need to ask a question
While I'm sitting here alone
Why on earth did someone name
The elbow, Funny Bone?
Ev'ry time I bang it
The last thing on my mind
Is laughing out in ecstasy,
And shouting something kind
Instead I want to lash out
And jump and scream and curse
The pain runs through my body
Only toothache could be worse.
So if you are a specialist
Please do your best to serve
A clumsy man who's sat in pain
I've banged my Ulnar nerve.
it's funny how hello is always accompanied with goodbye
it's funny how good memories can start to make you cry
it's funny how forever never seems to last
it's funny how much you'd lose if you forgot about your past
it's funny how “friends” can just leave when you are down
it's funny how when you need someone they never are around
it's funny how people change and think they're so much better
it's funny how many lies are packed into one “love letter”
it's funny how one night can contain so much regret
it's funny how you can forgive but not forget
it's funny how ironic life turns out to be
but the funniest part of all, is none of thats funny to me
I didn't write this poem, but think its AWESOME! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Its funny how hello is always followed with goodbye,
Its funny how good memories can make you want to cry,
Its funny how forever never seems to last,
Its funny how much you'd loose if you forgot about your past,
Its funny how 'friends' can just leave you when you're down,
Its funny how when you need someone they're never around,
Its funny how people change and think they're so much better,
Its funny how many lies are packed into one 'love letter'
Its funny how people forgive, even though they can't forget,
Its funny how one night can contain so much regret,
Its funny how ironic life turns out to be,
But the funniest thig of all is...
...none of that's funny to me.
Funny am I
How at this point of my life
That I'll ever see such as these
That people find it humorous
Of which I don't, at least, not as much
To live a life of folly.
Funny is it
How this world evolve with things
Looking real when everyone knows
That it isn't all there is to it
Wanting 'em with their life at stake
Wishing like nothing in carelessness.
Funny, but not so funny
For people could think as such
Like no one will know of it;
For people could do as such
Like there is no a payback for it;
Funny, but not so funny.
Funny, but not so funny
When such a time comes
As the world evolves
So is what have been sown
May not be at your lifetime
But to the lives of the generation to come.
Funny, but not so funny
When given a time to live
But only not many have the thought of it
Living a life just to get by
Is not what accounted for
But living under the will of God.
Funny, but not so funny... at least, not just yet.
Its funny how hello is alway accompanied with goodbye,
Its funny how good memories can start to make you cry.
Its funny how forever never really seems to last,
Its funny how much you'd lose if you forgot about your past.
Its funny how 'friends' can just leave you when your down,
Its funny how when you need someone their never around.
Its funny how people change and think they're so much better,
Its funny how many lies can be packed into one 'love letter'.
Its funny how people forgive even though they cant forget,
Its funny how one night can contain so much regret.
Its funny how ironic life turns out to be,
But the funniest part of all...
Is that none of thats funny to me
exhaustion fell on this dread,
like mold on these piano keys,
it stunk up the place, still i had
to investigate this electrical
storm, untill i at least isolate
this despondent dyke from killing
itself, and she cries becouse the
cows have no milk,
or the chords have no sound,
or this rain provides no drink.
Sisters and brothers you belong together
Although you pray, mostly you play
To teach, to reach, to fetch one another
Even when your love groove you delay.
Together you sit, you eat, you study
You talk to them and you poke fun
At your mom who's your bosom buddy
And dear pop likes your witty pun.
Sometimes family irritates you stacks
Your fashion, your tuition they select
To pass on wisdom with love packs
When wrong choice you're about to elect.
Whatever the mood is in your cosy family
They mean well in all they choose to do;
Celebrating you or reading you riot homily
They love you. They do care, your home crew.
Once, there was a white cat
Who was really, really fat
So fat
She looked like a bat
Who has eaten a huge rat.
The cat was walking in the street
Following a beat, with her feet
Tic, tac, tic, tac
Tictactictactictac
Looking for anything to eat
Milk, fish, tuna, meat...
But what a pity
The street was empty
So empty
Not even a birdie
To make her get nasty.
The cat kept walking in the street
Following a beat, with her feet
Tic, tac, tic, tac
Tic, tac, tic, tac
Looking for somewhere to sleep
Bed'n'sheets? Get real! Just a seat...
But she didn't find any, what a shame
Because she was really lame
So lame
She had forgotten her own name
And from where she originally came.
So she kept walking in the street
Feeling the heat, and pain in her feet
Tic, tac, tic, tac
Tic,              tac
Looking for someone to blame
Same situation, same game...
Then, the white cat
Saw a tiny red hat
One hat
She ran, jumped and sat
In it, what a lucky cat!
But since she was really fat
She got stuck in the hat
So stuck
She looked like a rat
In a cheese trap.
A dog came walking in the street
Following a beat, with his feet
Tic, tac, tictac
Tic, tac, tictac
He saw something red
So he stopped near the cat's head:
'Haha! Cat, you pay the fees
For acting so bad with your peers! '
'Help, please'
'Call me bad boy, I love to tease
I'm getting outta here, say cheers! '
Then a bird came flying in the street
With his wings, following a beat
Tictactictactictac
Tictactictactictac< br>He saw something red
So he stopped above the cat's head:
'Oh, poor white cat
Are you trapped in this hat? '
'Damn I am! '
'Let me help you, sad little cat
Here, you're out, care for a chat? '
Rumors I heard
Say the cat ate the bird.
I used to complain
About my big funny looking feet
And a friend said,
“Hey they were made that way,
Because when you are sad
And hanging your head low
They give you something
To smile at.”
I bought a piece yesternight
A shining paperweight
I floated it in water
To find it drowned next day!
Weighty wee bit it might be,
But glad to see it sunk
To bottom heart
Where it should have been
Rest In Peace always!
05 08 08
Friend
You and I are friends
You laugh, I laugh
You cry, I cry
You scream, I scream
You run, I run
You jump, I jump
You jump off a
bridge, I'm going to
miss you buddy :)
Would you like life to be a movie?
Which film would you choose?
Which character would you play?
Happy ending or tragedy...
Comedy, drama, parody?
Sally in that restaurant scene?
Cleopatra, the Egyptian Queen
Catherine hauntingly seeking Heathcliffe
Holly Go-Lightly crumbling quietly
Or Thelma and Louise....
Would you always find your heart
In this movie with a classic start
Would the girl get her man,
Would the goodies always win
Or would poignancy hit on the chin?
Would the script be a mirror?
Would you invite your friends for dinner
To see your life on the screen
Creating its own scenes, sets and dreams
Or would you keep it for a private viewing?
Carousel, South Pacific, Showboat.
Gone with the Wind, Oh Scarlet..!
From Here to Eternity, wrestling in the sea
Love is a foundation for these films
Love will take the Oscar every time
Oh what money there is to be made
From love and shattered hopes and dreams
Directors cruelly playing to our hearts
We identify with everyone it seems...
But real life is not a contrived play
The music doesn't intervene magically
To create that perfect kiss, you never
Look like Audrey, or Elizabeth, or Marilyn
First thing in the morning....
The roses don't bloom spontaneously in time
The doorbell doesn't chime when you need it
Bouquets don't wait on your desk
His arms don't circle your waist whilst
You prepare dinner and wash dirty nappies
The diamond doesn't hide in your oyster
The stars don't collide with the moon
Fireworks don't fill the sky with colour
A symphony doesn't play in the background
Why do they deceive us so...
These 90 minute love affairs with life?
We lose ourselves in their wonderment
Close our eyes and silently scream
'Why doesn't that happen to me'.
Why can't I feel like a Pretty Woman
Where is my Knight in Shining Armour
Cruel things. Messing with our dreams
Making us discontent. Mm, what part will I play
Who will I be today? Which strong woman
Which one that gets their cake and eats it?
Which lady in rapturous love shall I be?
Lizzie waiting for her D'Arcy
Sandy in black leather for Danny
Match-maker Emma finding Mr Knightley
Juliet bereft over Romeo, but wait!
The looking glass tells me, it's just me
Seems everyone just hates to see me change
But my brain feels maimed with no ambition of fame
Just money and its funny all I want is that and my honey
Coz the rest are all dummies and I can’t get chummy
With new people who are feeble, fake, and evil
And old friends who crossed me are no longer equals
So i'm use to standing alone prone to breaking thrones
A war zone is my home and a battling I shall go
No love for my peers not after all these years
I won’t shed a tear to hear u all lost what is dear
Coz u haven’t got a clue on what it means to be true
All u do is front, your lost in an image that isn’t you
Like your all a heard of sheep, your all the same no one is unique
U will never reach the peak with all that rubbish you speak
A petty lil criminal running his mouth like he hard is so pitiful
Taking advice from a prisoner? U idiot that’s why u minimal
Wise up learn from the quiet ones before your freedom is critical
It is funny, isn't it,
how fast one can go
from joy to sorrow
down life's twisty road.
It makes her laugh
even as she cries...
Turn the other cheek
or let love die.
So, he called you a liar,
he says it's true,
no matter what you say
or what you do.
'Tis soul-killing
to suffer so,
to be thought as less
than the truth you know...
Well, time goes on
and another day comes;
feel the soft air, the sweet warm sun
and hold fast to this truth:
that you aren't over; life is far from done.
(9.3.06 - The sun shines for you too, Little Spirit.  You're not finished yet...)
.
Ball on
Ground...
Kick and play
The player's
Ball was
Un happy...!
Lisener's
Also clap
And play...!
Happy Morning kids, I said
Monday morning sir, they giggled
I too smiled saying good one
They winked saying which one
Then I gazed and asked one
Asked, What is your dream?
Kid, sorry no day dreams
I nodded and asked again
So what’s your night dream?
Kid, to not wet my bed
I asked one more kid
Who is the king of forest?
Kid, the king is King Kong
What about lion? I said
Kid, lion lives in zoo
I asked one cute bud
Why monkeys live on trees?
Kid, all monkeys lost keys
Why donkeys work hard?
Kid, all donkeys work for don
Tell why this hens crow?
Why dogs bark? I asked
Then the bell rang loud
Kids ran saying alarm sound
I too left saying funny kids
Were born, work hard at school, then work
hard for a family. Everything is right or
just about right, then death reaps. Makes
one wonder, about a pulsing heart beat
away from death. Just seems, GOD, in
heaven gives and then takes. All vanities
and lusts of life, appear fools play in the
grand spectrum.
12/19/2009 POEWHIT
JESUS SAVES
There once was a man named Guss
He really wanted to be famous
So he took off his clothes
and struck a big pose
but everyone just said get away from us
He told us funny Jokes and entertained us when we felt down almost in Tears
Funny men
Knows how to bring our spirits up
Funny Men
Makes our day past away quickly and keeps our minds occupied for a While
Funny Men
Is everybody’s best friend and it is true that laughter is the best Medicine
I want to untwine
my youthful body aches
more pills make it go away
it's mind blowing
intertwining worlds, of hate blood
horror pain and mud
you've become a shadow of yourself
your eyelids shake when your eyes close
yes you are still all alone
you are the endless stars
you are the colors in the sky
you are the sun that finally shun
to remind me another day had just begun
destroy, create, repair,
it's all in the open air
and I'm back again.
Dissect my quivering relapses
before everything collapses.
grassy fields full of frisbees
and dogs, mom and dad
sitting together on a bench
made for one.of baseballs
flying high in the air, and
dear old dad showing how
to catch a  ball before it
hits my head.
Sometimes you get laugh
For something that really funny
Sometimes you could laugh
To something that doesn't intent to be funny
Sometimes you make laugh
Because everybody understand what's funny
Sometimes you laugh alone
Because you are the only one that think it's funny
Sometimes you try to laugh
Just to be looked funny
Sometimes you are forced to laugh
Despite it isn't funny
Sometimes you can't help to laugh
Even though it is not actually funny
we have friends who during a
party ask us
where have we been all these times
what we have been doing
on those spare days
and we answer that
we have been writing poems
and trekking the country for metaphors
and they all laugh while holding their wine glasses
thinking that we are joking
and finding us all
funny
'cheers! we'll drink to that' says a friend
to celebrate those days
when we merely talk about stocks and dividend
When you are in love
And you get abit older
You wish you were forever young
When you are shy
And you get abit bolder
You wish you were forever young
Like the rainbows that follow the rain
My love for you will always be the same
When we both get old and think of love
We wish we were forever young.
Funny you should say,
That the world is spining,
Funny you should say,
That Manchester is winning.
Funny you should say,
That time flies fast,
Funny you should say,
That's all in the past.
Funny you should say,
That death is dawning near,
Funny you should say,
He turned a deaf ear.
Funny you should say,
That life is full of honey,
But for that you need money,
Hmmm... funny.
Funny is laughter
Funny is fun
Funny is healthy
Funny is nice
Funny is amusing
Funny is comical
A pelt of pranks
Above the normal ranks
Is funny when it is on
Yet quite sad when gone
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
It's funny how hello is always accompanied with goodbye
It's funny how good memories can start to make you cry
It's funny how forever never seems to really last
It's funny how much you'd loose if you forgot about your past
It's funny how friends can just leave you when you're down
It's funny how when you need someone they're never around
It's funny how people can change and think they're so much better
It's funny how many lies can be packed in one ''love letter''
It's funny how people can forgive even though they can't forget
It's funny how one night can contain so much regret
It's funny how ironic life turns out to be,
But the funniest part,
Is that none of it is funny...
To me.
It's funny how
You make me cry,
Make me feel
Like I'm a lie.
It's funny how
You make me scream,
Make me feel
Like I'm a dream.
It's funny how
You make my pain,
Make me feel
Like life’s a game.
It’s funny how
We try to win...
Please,
Don't make me
Cry again.
It's funny how you said you loved me, then you left me for someone else.
It's funny how you would talk to me as often as possible, and now you completely ignore me.
It's Funny how whenever I was with you I always felt like I was special, But now I feel like a fool for wasting my time on you.
It's funny how I believed all your lies...
But the truth is it's not funny at all.
(June,22,2011)
▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒ ▒
Scratch here to read the poem.: D
Here we go, another spell,
tell me can you smell the smell?
bats feet rubarub, salt and gum
scrappings from an elephants bum!
This time i know I'll win
when he drinks my spell for him
add a little eye of rat, sicky glue
stuff from underneath my shoe!
frogs legs, ant wings
bogies too, all these things i cast on you
Stir it stir it, dancing round
boiling caldron on the ground
make it bubble, rubble spit
add a fart that'll do the trick
will he drink it?
hold his nose
please dont make me use the hose!
my bubbling coldron on the ground
dancing bare feet make no sound
my spell will work
this drink he takes
A carton from a wimpy shake
fill right up with spell of mine.
Mouse feet, chicken skin bacon ryn.
swallow it all, you will be mine.
wish this spell I did not make
Wish his heart was mine to take.
There are many funny things
that people take with them,
when they are desperate,
and go into the loo.
My boss the other day
took some long handled grabbers in with her.
I am assuming she took them with her
to help pull up her knickers.
I once found a five hundred-page novel
ever so well read.
I’m thinking the person who left it there
must have brought his bed.
He would have needed it
with that many pages to get through.
The next time you go to the loo
just look around at the funny things
others have left behind
and try to work out
what they wanted them for.
2-3 October 2008
The other day
I woke up feeling low
I tried not to think about you
to stop the inevitable tears that threatened to fall.
Funny things tears, they linger yet do not fall.
That night I got angry
as I walked fron the bus stop to my home
My mood slowly dissipated into sadness
I felt the bloody tears linger
am guessing they showed because some ladies looked at me
gossiped and actually stood to stare
Funny thing tears are, they know no shame.
Yesterday I drunk myself into a stupor
because I couldnt bear the thoughts
the happy memories, the questions.
I smoked because I wanted to burn away my pain
my loneliness, my intense craving to end it all
Funny things tears, they come when you least expect them
Last night I hated you
Hated my intense stupid love for you
Hated that my life was blank without you
I went running, jogging to absolve the pain
to numb myself, but pain is stubborn
I ran for miles but still felt that swift flash.
Funny things tears, they burn.
Today I woke up
ignoring my phone I tried to resist it
to resist the urge to call you,
But I did,
Lunch, drinks, kisses more promises
apologies more excuses
smiling, laughing, forgetting
Funny thing love it forgets the tears easily.
Tonight I sleep soundly
But Tommorow I work and the cycle begins.
Funny things tears sometimes they cleanse you.
Funny things that happen quite often to me,
Like going shopping for slippers, and come home without;
Or go out in a tshirt, but find it's back to front I see,
Am I going crazy,  what's happening should I shout?
Funny things that happen when you go to ring on the phone,
Then sure it's the right number, but a man says I've been here a year;
So you end up finding the man is your neighbor in his home,
So you gasp for an excuse, to get off the line, realizing he's so near.
Funny things that's happened to my dad one day,
He couldn't find his glasses, that were on his nose;
Where did you two put them now, is what he did say,
Even when we tried to show him, he was still full of woes.
Funny things had happened to me a while ago,
When I was engaged, a doctor thought I was a wife;
He had not read the history, if he had it would show,
But we just laughed, another funny story to my life.
345
Funny—to be a Century—
And see the People—going by—
I—should die of the Oddity—
But then—I'm not so staid—as He—
He keeps His Secrets safely—very—
Were He to tell—extremely sorry
This Bashful Globe of Ours would be—
So dainty of Publicity—
She had been a late and only child to parents
already old and set; none of us had ever
wanted to go inside that hushed house
and play with her, her room too neat, doll-crowded.
We did encourage her later, though, to enter
the high school talent contest—after we’d heard
her singing My Funny Valentine in a stall
in the girls’ bathroom, reckoning the boys
would laugh, perhaps find us even prettier
in comparison. Still, we would not have predicted
those wisteria-scaled walls, the one room
we could see from the street with its windows
open year round so that greening vines entered
and birds flew in and out—bad luck, we thought,
bad luck. By then we were members of the ladies’
garden club, the condition of her house
and what had been its garden a monthly
refreshment of disappointment, the most
delectable complaint her parents’ last
Coup de Ville sinking in tangled orchard grass
and filled to the roof—plush front seat and rear—
with paperbacks, fat, redundant romances
she had not quite thrown away—laughable,
we laughed, unphotographable—with wild restraint.
Believe me, I run from dying
I know, it's so dumb, but funny trying
WAR, around me everywhere
SOLDIERS, killing everyday, I swear.
Truly, I have nothing to fear
Because when I look in the mirror
I see myself with no hair
A jock, playing, fakinit, like its there
I know... you hate that, my dear
Made your point of view Claire
Telling me, if I show up, you will run out there
Hiding from me, on your feet, downstairs
Anyway, sweetie, anyway, truly I don't care
Whatever you say honey, you love me
With your smile you illuminate my world
You can't imagine my happy feelings,
whenever I tell you, that, without you,
my life has no meaning at all
I love myself, maybe, but I've loved you before
Knowing in your heart Im not outdoors
Because you love me too and I am sure
I Hope, my life is long, because we are made for it
You are what a man wants from this life and more
I love you, its true and beautiful
So let us live our magic story
All thank to My dear friend Cruz
Funny how the very ones who
say they carry the light, also
bear the responsibility for causing
most of the pain in the world.
Funny how the loudest whiners
are the fanciest diners at the
buffet of humanity.
Funny how the rich are exempt
and the poor breed contempt;
how the nations with the most to give
play the best game of politics
supplying the weaponry that
eventually kills
even their own children.
Funny isn’t it how the world works
with its upside down righteousness
and its lawful in-justice, while
all the best parts of mankind are being
sucked out through the holes in the ozone
or dissolved completely in the furnace of
unrestrained industry, avarice and greed.
It’s a funny world alright;
funny how nobody’s laughing.
GOD MADE STEAK
GOD MADE SNAKES
GOD YOU MADE ALOT OF MISTAKES
GOD MADE COOKIES
GOD MADE MOVIES
GOD YOU ENJOY MAKING DOOKIES
GOD MADE YOU TALL
GOD MADE YOU A WALL
GOD LIKES TO PLAY BASKETBALL
GOD WEARS A PAD
GOD GETS MAD
GOD IS IN LOVE WITH  CHAD
GOD MADE LIGHT
GOD MADE FIGHTS
GOD MADE YOU MISTAMINE
People say there is nothing funnier then laughter
You can even chuckle some long hours after
You laugh at what is sometimes seen
You laugh at things you do not mean
Yet some where in all hilarity
In amongst that crazy parody
Will Someone please tell me, I’ll give you money
What makes laughter, so darn funny!
Why, when you laugh do people laugh too?
Laugh not at things you say or things you do
Its crazy how when nothing’s funny
People laugh and clutch their to tummy
Will anybody tell me? Wouldn’t you? please, sonny
What makes laughter so gosh darn funny!
Yes, What makes laughter so gosh darn FUNNY!
How funny it would be if dreamy I
Should leave one book behind me when I die
And that a book of Law—this silly thing
Just written for the money it will bring.
I do hope, when it's finished, I'll have time
For other books and better spurts of rhyme.
How to make you funny?
And you are always funny,
You hide it and
It  is still funny,
And that makes me laugh.
How to make you serious?
And you can not be serious,
Funny is funny,
And being seriously funny is not that funny,
And you laugh.
How to tell you a joke?
And you are the funniest joke
That makes you more funny and serious
While you are drinking and thinking
At the risk
Of spilling the juice of your lips
At my laugh.
i am funny
i cry upon hearing the pleas
of the goats
transported from the
market to the
slaughterhouse
it is ridiculous
as others think of the
goat meat well spiced
for their next
sumptuous dinner
i am funny
thinking about the mass killing
of natives in the south
as other still think of the gain
on the next delivery of
guns and ammunition
i am not just funny
i am crazy
and they are not ridiculous
they are serious
for wars to come and shall never end
for the violence they create
so they may have all the profits
and gain
reality is not funny
war is a serious business
the government is crazy
worshiping a master
this great puppeteer
In the butterfly
Where's the butter in the fly?
And in the better-half
Is there any better half?
In the firefly
Where's the fire in the fly?
And in the caterpillar
Where to cater the pillar?
In the horsefly,
Where's the horse to fly?
And in the saucepan
Where's sauce in the pan?
In the angelfish
Where's angel in the fish?
And in the goldfish
Is there any gold in the fish?
In the catfish
Where's cat in the fish?
And in the sweetheart,
Is there any sweet in the heart?
In the lime fruit,
Where's lime in the fruit?
And in the jackfruit,
How to jack the fruit?
In the strawberry,
Where's straw in the berry?
And in the gooseberry
Is there any goose in the berry?
In the sandwich,
Where's the sand?
And in the hotdog,
Is there any dog?
In the crowbar
Where's crow in the bar?
And in the bookworm
Is there any book in the worm?
In the paper foolscap
Where's the fool or his cap?
And in the crabgrass
Is there any crab in the grass?
In the cocktail,
Or cockroach,
Or cockpit,
Is there any cock or tail?
In the pineapple
Where's the pine or apple?
And in the chickenpox
Is there any chicken?
In the honeymoon
Is there any honey or moon?
And in the mango
Where should the man go?
In the henpecked
Where's the hen pecked?
Such words how many
Appear to be funny?
I find it kinda funny
I find it kinda sad
The dreams in which I'm dying
Are the best I've ever had
I had a funny dream,
about a marshmallow ball...
he made me so giggley,
then my skin started to crawl...
that cute little puff,
of sugar and sweet,
was very soon,
a scary little treat..
he grew and he grew,
out popped feet and hands,
and then i woke up crying,
after being eaten by the marshmallow man.....
: '(
im now officially petrified of marshmallows...
I am fuuny
thats who am i
I am funny
Make u laugh n cry
I am funny
Do funny things
I am funny
I like to play with strings
I am funny
And i don't care
I look funny in my underwear
It's funny that im funny
Thats what i like to be
So lets be funny together
Be funny like me
Many people are involved in a so-called monetary unjust,
With a hoop and a holler, turning a minor into a major fuss,
So, the newest one dollar coin is missing, “In God We Trust, ”
They’re calling the absent phrase a religious and political bust.
Hey, an email and the sender is extremely upset about the lack,
No, “In God We Trust” to the post office she wants to give it back,
A lot of families are hard hit as news programs document the lack,
But when cameras get close we see cigarettes and plenty of Jack.
The respect and use of any countries money has never changed,
Shekel, Denari, Peso, Yen, even solid gold, what’s in a name?
May in church circles will not even bother to pay their 10% tithes,
On that note, does it really matter and if so please elaborate why?
It’s not how much you have but what is done with it that counts,
The old woman put in two copper mites yet it was a greater amount,
Than those who gave plenty more out of their abundant wealth,
And no matter how much money you have it still can’t buy health.
“Silver & gold have I not but in the name of Jesus stand up & walk, ”
Oh yeah, “In God We Trust” was not on currency but in his talk,
Remember the phrase that, “a fool and money his soon will part, ”
Any amount is useless unless it’s written upon the spender’s heart.
Peter fetched a shekel from the mouth of a fish for taxes to pay,
What phrase and whose picture was on money back in the day?
The very best way to deal is by none other than barter and trade,
It is the one and only way to get out the exact amount you paid.
Undercover hit men are hired to kill a spouse yet they wind up in jail,
Rapists and drunks are released on insignificant amounts of bail,
Committing their crimes again, any one have a similar story to tell?
How many people carry money but still lie, cheat and raise hell?
And here’s the strangest situation, I just have to tell you this one,
A minister wanted to use “In God We Trust” money to buy a gun,
Not for the purpose of home protection they already had a target,
Funny! Murder on the mind from a perched position in the pulpit.
Okay! This helps to explain why there is a certain type of attrition,
Bullet manufacturers work 24/7, there’s a shortage of ammunition,
Not enough “In God We Trust” for lunch programs or Head Start,
However, way more than enough to brutally rip each other apart.
Yes, many people see this inscription as being a fresh new start,
“They honor Me with their lips but despise Me with their heart, ”
If “In God We Trust” on money was all that needed to be done,
Then God would never have needed to sacrifice His only Son.
'In God We Trust' was actually passed Into law only as a motto,
Good to know because this makes it even more shallow & hollow,
Teddy Roosevelt said sacrilegious, Supreme Court Would not relent,
So it's, 'lost through rote repetition any significant religious content.'
A very slick imposter hustler slides into ACORN seeking money,
With a hidden camera and his equally fake hooker looking honey,
Just to be sure there was no misunderstanding or optical illusion,
Staff told how to hide “In God We Trust” made from prostitution.
Assuredly, just as sure as Thursday follows Wednesday & without fail,
Before helping another in serious need some woman will do her nails,
And, certainly a priority will arise however if it is not one of their own,
Most people will first tip the driver who brings fried rice to their home.
As many are screaming for assistance their sounds fall on deaf ears,
Closest family and friends are more apt to buy fried chicken and beer,
Without a doubt everyone knows someone who’s in severe dire need,
Just make sure it’s for essentials, not cocaine, heroin, wine or weed.
By the way, it was all just an error on some, a simple mistake,
However, those coins are selling for $50 so they can’t be fake,
Dig this, without the inscription they’re worth a whole lot more,
And so the fact that they have more value might make Him sore.
Today’s currency is used for less good and way too much harm,
Drugs, sex, the black market, fraudulent claims and illegal arms,
The new dollar coin in missing, “In God We Trust” that is so funny,
Think God wants His name on anybody's uncircumcised money?
Isn’t it funny how all of a sudden you care
But when we were together you were never there
Isn’t it funny how to make me jealous you’re with her
But when you see me with him, everything starts to blur
Isn’t it funny how you want me to miss you
But when we were together, other girls you’d pursue
Isn’t it funny how you think of me when you’re alone at night
When im across the street in his arms wrapped up tight
Isn’t it funny how you sit there thinking of me
While im in the sky, completely carefree
Isn’t it funny how much the tables have turned
I hope from all this, SOMETHING, you have learned
Isn't it funny
when people flick their hair and look
down at you, snickering?
hehehe
Isn't it funny
when nature whips its lash and rips
through the sky, thundering?
roarrrrrroarrrr
Isn't it funny
when machines go bezerk and leave
a trail of broken pieces, destructing?
crrraaack
Isn't it funny
when you realize that these things
are not at all funny and
want to bonk yourself on the head?
No, not really. But humans
often find horrible things hilarious
as long as they are not the source of the
Funniness.
Think about it
Isn't it funny?
The world we are living in is just a dream
We are bad
We are doing evil
We waste our time running for money
We waste our time trying to get famous
But we don't see whats real
We don't realize the real person we are
We know the fact yet we don't notice it
Isn't it funny?
You may die tomorrow
Just think
You may die tomorrow
No money
No fame
No fun
No evil
Life's over!
Thats what we don't realize
Nothing is for granted
Not even our life
We may die tomorrow
So be a better man and don't live for life
Be a better man live for the death
You never know when your time comes
You never know when your time's up!
See the mirror
And ask the man in the mirror
Ask him to change himself
I wanna get this message straight
I wanna get this clear
You better change yourself
Maybe the time is near
isn't it funny,
how the world likes to be?
isn't it funny,
how much you don't mean to me?
isn't it funny,
how much i care?
it really isn't funny,
when you're not there.
isn't it funny,
how we used to be?
isn't it interesting,
what you meant to me?
isn't it strange,
how we fell apart?
isn't it great,
we both miss our hearts?
one last thing,
before i throw this ring,
wasn't it funny...
to see what i'd do?
isn't it laughable,
how i still love you?
Its funny how hello is always accompanied with good-bye
Its funny how remembering good memories can make you cry
Its funny how forever never seems to really last
Its funny how much you'd lose if you forgot your past
Its funny how friends can just leave you when you're down
Its funny how when you need someone there never around
Its funny how people can change and think there so much betta
Its funny how many lies can be packed into one love letta
Its funny how people can forgive even tho they cant forget
Its funny how one night can catain of so much regret
Its funny how crazy and ironic life turns out to be
but the funniest part of all is that none of that seems funny to me
it's funny how hello is always finished with goodbye
it's funny how good memories can make you cry
it's funny how forever never seems to last
it's funny how much you would lose if you forgot about your past
it's funny how “friends” can just leave when you are down
it's funny how when you need someone they never are around
it's funny how people change and think they are so much better
it cant be packed in one letter
it's funny how one night can contain so much regret
because the funniest part of all, is none of thats funny to me
Its Funny...
When im happy I have a bad day
Its Funnny,
That when I wish it was hot it snowed
Its Funny,
That when the world is finally at peace War begins
Its Funny,
When I fancy Chicken my mum cooks pork
Its Funny,
When I get a new phone It breaks
Its Funny,
When I tell my friend a secret and politely ask her not to tell a soul but she does anyway
Its Funny,
When my mate does something wrong I get in trouble
Its Funny,
I want to watch a movie on T.V but theres a powercut from start to finish
Its Funny,
When I ask for a cat for my birthday, I get a fish
Its Funny,
When I say I love you
You reply....I love you too and I always will
It's funny how the ones who show you the most love,
Are often the ones who say it the least
It's funny how the ones who tell you they love you the most,
Are often the ones that hurt you the most
It's funny how the ones who beg for forgiveness,
Are often the ones who least deserve it
It's funny how the ones who mess everything up,
Are often the ones who make you feel guilty
It's funny how the ones who are the happiest,
Are often the ones who've known the most heartache
It's funny how those hearts can always mend themselves,
If you give them enough time and space
It's funny how this life just keeps going,
No matter how hard you may beg it to slow down.
You broke my heart
So many times
Was he sweeter?
Is he better?
Was the grass greener?
On the other side?
Wipe your eyes
Please don't cry
You meet a monster
Clever like Dracula
Please don't bother me
I am eating lobster
With my brother
I hate your sorry lines
And the stupid lies
Get another guy
My love bye, bye
Shut the door
I need time to recover
Sorry it's over
(LOL Dedicated to Nef)
Copyright © ® Eyan desir. All rights reserved
I had a little puppy dog,
He was Jully the funny dog,
He did walk and sleep and run with me,
All I had to do was keep him clean.
He was really scared of my cat,
He used to hide under the mat,
He barked a lot when he saw the ants,
He used to rip off my Uncle’s pants.
He hates the cow in the farm,
There’s not one day he didn’t bring down the farm,
The cow was angry with him one time,
That she poked him with her horns and went far aside.
If someone shouted at me once or twice,
He would bark and bark at him more than a thrice,
A chick once he tried to swallow,
But, poor me! He couldn’t do more than a hallow.
When it is bedtime, he slept with me,
The blanket went to him rather than me,
He is good example that barking dogs never bite,
But do remember, his bark is worse than his bite.
All Copyrights Reserved To Meriam Joseph
For two lovebirds, I met a Stratford on Avon
With the first initials D & T
They know who they are.
Love is a funny thing,
one minute you are up,
then the next you are down.
Then your head is spinning around,
your seeing stars,
dancing on the moon.
Love is a funny thing,
and that is for sure.
Santa goes into his son`s room to wish him goodnight. His son is having a nightmare - Santa wakes him and asks his son if he is OK? The son replies he is scared because he dreamt that his aunt had died. Santa assures the son that Auntie is fine and sends him to bed.
The next day, Auntie dies. One week later, Santa again goes into his son`s room to wish him goodnight. His son is having another nightmare - Santa again wakes his son. The son this time says that he had dreamt that his grandmother had died. The father assures the son that she is fine and sends him to bed.
The next day, grandmother dies. One week later, Santa again goes into his son`s room to wish him goodnight. His son is having another nightmare, he again wakes his son. The son this time says that he had dreamt that his daddy had died. The father assures the son that he is OK and sends the boy to bed.
Santa goes to bed but cannot sleep because he is so terrified. The next day, Santa is scared for his life- he is sure is going to die. After dressing he drives very cautiously to work fearful of a collision. He doesn`t eat lunch because he is scared of food poisoning. He avoids everyone for he is sure he will somehow be killed. He jumps at every noise, starts at every movement and hides under his desk.
After days work, upon walking in his front door, he finds his wife, Jeeto, 'Good God, Dear, ' he proclaims, 'I`ve just had the worst day of my entire life! '
Jeeto responds, 'You think your day was bad, this morning my ex-boyfriend dropped dead on the front steps! '
I do not believe in money
I believe not in money money funny
the misuse of money so ugly
I do not believe in money
I believe in people
the gifts of certain people
I believe in people of dreams
people of pure passion dreams
lived with intensity beautiful souls
I believe in artistic passion people
who quit patchworks creative contrasts
who gift minds eye beautiful melodies
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
There once was an old Irish Setter,
So ugly that no one would pet her,
Then one day she was struck
By a huge garbage truck,
I swear the dog looks so much better.
'Love in vain? '
she whispers to herself.
Laughs.
A pun
at a time
like this.
Smiles.
Winces
...at the pain.
Cuts
...her wrists.
Cuts.
Her.
Wrists.
......
My daddy’s so funny; always making me laugh
But, he’s the best daddy anybody could have
Every time he comes around he has something funny to say
On days when I feel down daddy can always makes my day
My daddy’s so funny even when he’s not trying to be
He has a way with words and gestures that always tickles me
He makes funny expressions, and he’s so witty too
He’s so funny he’ll make you forget you were feeling blue
My daddy’s so funny, but he is also sweet
He will do anything to help someone else; even get them off the street
You can find him givin’ change, or just standing up talkin’
To a person that most people would look at and just keep on walkin’
My daddy’s so funny, but he is such a good provider
He would do anything to take care of his family, even use the car like a taxi driver
I’ll never forget the time he got up at 5: 00 in the mornin’
He walked me all the way to my train stop, even though it was stormin’
My daddy’s so funny, but helped raise us girls so well
When my mama told us “no, ” we couldn’t run to him and tell
He taught us to be dainty and to act like ladies
He was always involved in our lives from the time that we were babies
My daddy’s so funny, but he takes good care of my mother
No matter how tough times would get, he always stood by her
He has been with her for more than 50 years
With her he has shared much marital bliss and many tears
My daddy’s so funny, but there is something you should know
He might laugh and joke a lot, but he takes life seriously though
His personality and the things he does are not for him to be seen
He just is who he is, and really loves people; from that we can all glean
My daddy’s so funny, when you ask him what he has to give
He’ll tell you in a minute, “I got mo’ cold cash than you got days to live! ”
My daddy is so funny, when I just think about him I laugh
I thank God for my daddy, one of the greatest gifts any girl could have.
Love makes many lose temper
Others get hurt
Some even cry and forget about their existence
Unlike my funny man
He is always happy
Laughing and cracking jokes all the time
Amazing how funny he is
When in trouble he stays calm
He stands still and plans ahead
No time for worries
His presence hinders me from remembering
all snares the world brings
Because of him I refuse to think
the world contains stubborn men
His funny stories never cease
and my happiness will last forever with my funny man
Little by little he is turning me into a funny woman
I can feel the changes in me
There is always a smile on my face
Whenever I talk, he laughs and becomes happier
I know I am his funny woman
What a pleasure to have my funny man around!
The storm seemed
to run out of breath
rested on a roof a bit
and catching me
observing it
gathered itself up
found its second wind
and flew at me
in a fury.
It snatched my hat
and ran off with it
thinking it
was funny.
I didn’t think it was
funny.
It's not funny when
you laugh and call
me names
I don't smile  when
you push me down
and laugh
I don't find it very funny
when you dis me and
say it was just a joke
I'm not the one who  laughs
when you call my name but
turn away
Your jokes  are not funny
and never will be so stop
saying them
It is not only funny
But very astonishing and clumsy
We all know about the holiness of boobs
Holy mention too can be found in books
Women are much more praiseworthy
Some may wear the ugliness gifted from almighty
The deformity and unnatural growth is not in our hands
The body as such will be submerged and  melted at the end
All nourishment and food is catered from that part
Our life gets shape and growth from the very start
Let us adore and praise the ladies for commendable job
We should not denigrate their honor and rob
It may be shown as world record
Many may take it as mere reference for looking forward
Any good looking natural piece deserves to be praised
But wrong way of projection should also be outrightly condemned
It must be taken as deformity in body
It is not done for records by somebody
It is really annoying for its wrong way of presentation
Otherwise it is not even worth for its mention
The opinion and perception may vary
The impression and meaning may also differently carry
Yet the basic concept of giving honor to ladies need not be compromised
Ladies deserve good comments and treatment as consciously promised
I'm thinking of something Funny
And it looks a little Runny
I suppose it could be from someone's Nose
That the person never Blows
I'm thinking of something Funny
Could make your Day a little more Sunny
In Holland they say it rains like Cats and Dogs
But I say it rains like Cows and Hogs
Lets all Say,
A Joke a Day
Keeps the Doc. Away
P.S.
Please write something Funny
And you'll be my Friend, to the End
Well to the end of your Poem :)
Tears come in funny places
when you least expect them too.
All of a sudden the eyes well up
crying out, with sounding vocals of ones, boo-hoo's!
You'll find them sometime appearing
while bidding a loved one, 'ado.'
Some are shed in a moments sadness
they are just that emotions, emotional fuse.
One might try to restrain their tears
from flowing down ones cheeks.
But you will never be able to stop their flow
it might cause you to spring a leak!
Joy, sadness, fear and anger
and from ones laughter, sometimes too!
Tears come in funny places
they can and will happen one day to you!
A server was a man with drinks
A Notebook was where you write
A click was done with fingers
And a reboot means you had a fight
Cyberspace was where the spaceships went
A screen saver was a cinema's bodyguard
Traffic only happened in cars
And Spam always had a lot of lard
Java was a type of bean
Hacking was what an axe-man's job,
A platform was where you sang
And a volley was a type of lob
Scan was to read really fast
A Moniter was a teacher
A shortcut was a dangerous way
And Shout-Outs done by preachers
Meg was the name of my girlfriend,
And gig was a job for the nights.
Now they all mean different things,
And that really mega bytes.
An application was for employment.
A program was a TV show.
A cursor used profanity.
A keyboard was a piano.
Memory was something that you lost with age.
A CD was a bank account.
And if you had a 3 inch floppy,
You hoped nobody would ever find out.
Compress was something you did to the garbage,
Not something you did to a file,
And if you unzipped anything in public
You'd be in jail for a while.
Log on was adding wood to the fire.
Hard drive was a long trip on the road.
A mouse pad was where a mouse lived,
And a backup happened to your commode.
Cut you did with a pocket knife.
Paste you did with glue.
A web was a spider's home,
And a virus was the flu.
I guess I'll stick to my pen and paper,
And the memory in my head.
I hear nobody's been killed in a computer crash,
But when it happens they wish they were dead!
'Twas a Funny Little Fellow
Of the very purest type,
For he had a heart as mellow
As an apple over ripe;
And the brightest little twinkle
When a funny thing occurred,
And the lightest little tinkle
Of a laugh you ever heard!
His smile was like the glitter
Of the sun in tropic lands,
And his talk a sweeter twitter
Than the swallow understands;
Hear him sing--and tell a story--
Snap a joke--ignite a pun,--
'Twas a capture--rapture--glory,
An explosion--all in one!
Though he hadn't any money--
That condiment which tends
To make a fellow 'honey'
For the palate of his friends;--
Sweet simples he compounded--
Sovereign antidotes for sin
Or taint,--a faith unbounded
That his friends were genuine.
He wasn't honored, maybe--
For his songs of praise were slim,--
Yet I never knew a baby
That wouldn't crow for him;
I never knew a mother
But urged a kindly claim
Upon him as a brother,
At the mention of his name.
The sick have ceased their sighing,
And have even found the grace
Of a smile when they were dying
As they looked upon his face;
And I've seen his eyes of laughter
Melt in tears that only ran
As though, swift-dancing after,
Came the Funny Little Man.
He laughed away the sorrow
And he laughed away the gloom
We are all so prone to borrow
From the darkness of the tomb;
And he laughed across the ocean
Of a happy life, and passed,
With a laugh of glad emotion,
Into Paradise at last.
And I think the Angels knew him,
And had gathered to await
His coming, and run to him
Through the widely opened Gate,
With their faces gleaming sunny
For his laughter-loving sake,
And thinking, 'What a funny
Little Angel he will make!'
why do popes wear funny little hats
litlle and round
not to mention funny
sure they serve a purpose
but what? ? ?
You used to say
'Dreams never comes true'
You used to think
'You are just cheating me'
But time speaks by itself
and stronger feelings
can't be hidden so long
Now, I have seen your arm get turned
I have seen your sight changes
Cause now you can't keep blocking the sun
with a single finger
Cause now is too late to block your heart
I am already living there!
You know is truth
You know is reality
No matter time
No matter spaces
No matter how
No matter why...
Cause Love has no rules
Cause Love is law
Love has no limits
Love is an endless power
and change us in his weird way
This is Life
just suddenly changes
Getting us in love
Getting us on pain
Getting us into new learnings
Just getting us
Into his Funny way!
Oxymorons are 2 contradicting words,
Now tell me, isn't that absurd?
An example of this is virtual reality,
Is that possible or just a casual formality?
What about the living dead,
Am I just being a butt head?
Am I leading this into a fine mess?
Isn't this moment priceless?
Don't worry; the poem is nearly done,
I'm just having a bit of serious fun.
Am I truly a big baby?
Well, it's a definite maybe.
Well I'm going to give you a practice test,
Tell me now, who is the second best.
I thank God that I'm an Atheist,
Also thank Him that I am a cautious optimist.
Now I am all alone,
In my office that's also my home.
Eating my very bland spice,
Wasn't this poem awfully nice?
Isn't life funny sometimes?
The ups, the downs,
The smiles, the frowns
The utter beautiful confusion
We find ourselves in?
When doors close and others open
When the rainclouds disperse
And the sunshine warms your face
Rainbows dancing in your garden
But you can't hold that pot of gold?
And then there's love.. love?
What is that? Is it a mutual sharing
A pairing of souls that 'match'
A slow dance in your irises
And a flash of lightning in your heart?
Or is it a cold, harsh thunderstorm
That doesn't abate, that ultimately
Leads to that word, 'hate'?
I don't like that word, really no
Hate isn't something for me
But I enjoy living, and feeling
Even if that feeling is often
Hard and difficult to understand
And faith, when held in your hand
Is so fragile, delicate and pure
This tango of life, this passion
That jumps into my heart and spins
Trips over itself, haunts me
Is all I ever want to feel, to be..
And I am so unashamedly thankful
To everyone that has ever touched me
And made me, Me.. otherwise
What would I be? Just another lost soul
Walking along the road of life
Without ever scuffing their feet
I love that my soles have blisters
And that scars are worn with pride
That this happy, fantastic wonderous ride
Is a journey I'm glad I didn't miss
It is surely, utterly, bliss
he's been waiting for this his whole life...
he's wanted her for a long time...
he's finally going to lose his virginity...
he's dreamed about this for years...
he's been in a daze scince she told him it was tim...
he's bought all the condoms he could buy...
he's waiting impatiently for the time to pass...
he's going to become a man...
(she shows up)
he's almost riping her clothes off...
she's almost riping his clothes off...
they've been goig out for 5 years...
he's been waiting even longer...
he's got it all in a plan...
then she whispers 'i'm a man'
Past times are strange
Sometimes funny
Sometimes sad
The past
Brings change of views
Change of ideas
Change of heart
But sometimes
The wounds of the past
Never heal
Never leave
The past is strange
And doesn’t change
Never
Change
When olive branch, we show the world,
They think, our weakened stage has come,
And treat us worse than ev’n before!
When flag of truce, in hand we hold,
They stiffen conditions on us,
As though we can’t fight anymore!
When bow we as mark of respect,
They look down upon us askance,
As though we are worthless on earth!
The world today is suspicious;
The human lives are less precious;
There’s dearth of people more pious!
Man wants to do whatev’r he likes;
Money decides the things he does;
The love in families seems gone.
One wants to make a quicker buck;
One takes more risks and tries his luck;
One feels things can be got by pluck.
Oh, what a funny world, it seems!
The human face appears well-masked;
The heart of man is ne’er contrite!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 01-03-2010
Something's wrong with me
Or them
I'm talking the men and women
Who deliver the weather
All of 'em like heat
While I'm a blizzard through and through.
an unceasing  flush
a toddler waving bye-bye,
to toilet papers
Under the ring of linked brown arms,
bare feet, brown feet with whiter soles
drum on the dusty, hard brown earth, stomp the rhythm
as if to wake the gods of earth
to draw the rain down to the roots,
caressing seeds against the growing time,
hearing the tears at the heart of things;
hearing the shuffle-clank
of leg irons listening for some rhythm that consoles
with promise; hearing the blues sung softly, like a prayer,
taken up across the cotton field,
sadness meeting hope in longing patience
and  a century ago
the white lady who loved Africa said,
I am weary with the future
*
white boy, you’re so young –
how could you hear the blues so well?
are they just around the corner
of every town that’s built, as dusk descends?
Do they lurk wherever lips meet plangent trumpet,
in the reeds of mourning clarinet,
the nostalgia of a dreaming saxophone?
Wherever future whispers to the past
and hears the sad reply?
white boy, white boy without a past,
you hear the blues so well,
I think you hear
those future blues,
those old white future blues,
those lonesome future blues.
Everyday is  a new born babe
Holding within its clenched fists
Secrets of a fledgling  future
Fluted down spirals of time
Cast away living in a bubble,
Ir orbit around an endangered earth.
Lost among the skyhawks of futuristic power..
I’m sworn to take an oath.
To move unseen through portholes in chase.
Where eyes of an eagle sore  deep dark space.
I live my life far away from home.
Protected, without fear, in a bubble I roam.
Man crushed the evergreens of earth.
Water contamination, no more rebirth.
I, with a chosen few,
see the earth from a different view.
Why dwell on something
You can not change
Look  to the future
Do the best you can
Ask our Heavenly Father
To give you a helping hand
Written:  Sept.29,2007
In the hustle and bustle of modern day living
A place full of greed and much less forgiving
In back streets and alley's, in dust and decay
A new breed of child reaches out for the day
A child of the future, quick witted and sour
His ambition survival, He lives for the hour
Nobodys child with nowhere to run
Allegiance to no one, and a needle for fun
No one to care if he lives or he die's
No child protection to witness his cries
If this is our future, then there isn't much hope
You know what they say, if you give enough rope
Put a price on the misery, we leave in this world
Small ragged bundles curled up in the cold
Wheres the compassion, Have we no sense of shame!
If we sow fields of sorrow, then expect crops of pain.
I look in the mirror,
and what do I see?
A face with no future,
stares out at me.
On the table, a glass and a bottle,
of my favourite poison.
When I was young,
I drank to be alive.
Now all I do,
is drink to survive.
My eyes bloodshot,
filled with vacant stare.
My face goes unshaven,
but what do I care?
My bottle is now empty,
quickly replace with one full.
Soon it will be empty,
just like this fool.
Family and friends fled.
My eyes were blind.
All they could see,
was another drink,
in front of me.
My legs get unsteady.
I stagger instead of walk.
A bottle wrapped in paper,
gripped tightly by my hand.
My clothes grow dirty,
as days and nights combine.
A smile is frozen,
on this face of mine.
My arm flex out,
when I stumble to the ground.
Faces look down at me,
expressions display my waste.
I just hold my smile,
as I lay there in their midst.
At least my bottle,
didn’t break,
on my fall from grace.
Time for another drink,
raise bottle to my lips.
Liquid trickles down my throat,
and still my smile remains,
as silly as it can be.
The faces disappear.
Everyone has gone now.
Like family and friends,
they all desert.
I lay there on my own.
For no one wants to take,
a drunk home.
25 Jan 2007
I think about the future,
And I wonder about our life.
To much hate for one planet,
To much fear.
Somehow,
I missed the announcement
That love had died,
I missed her funeral,
I hope it was nice.
Lost;
The masses cling to faith,
While the homeless
Cling to paper sacks,
Filled with empty dreams,
Fading, like old yellow newspapers,
In the rain.
In the future,
There will be a day,
When life
Will be worth more than greed;
And paper sacks,
Are just paper sacks.
I hope it comes soon.
Yes, the war for oil
many tempers on the boil
stay on homeland soil.
And soon it happens
that axis evil countries
blow up their neighbours.
It is ordained then
that terror bombs will soon rain
on peaceful people.
And if they do not
the world will wait a decade:
New SUPERPOWER.
Too late then buddies
as billions overcome you
an ugly slaughter.
Before we die though
we will regret decisions
of doing nothing.
A future time, a future place
Here on Earth or out in space
The doors are open if you choose
To learn the skills that you can use
Computers you use every day
Atomic medicine is here to stay
A walk on the moon is a thing of the past
We're on our way to the stars at long last
Radar, and laser, and quasar, and such,
These words sound strange, but they mean so much
Learn these things, and many more
See what wonders the world has in store
Don't let folly lead you away
From Learning the skills you need so today
Have fun in your life, but don't learn with sorrow
That the fun of today won't feed you tomorrow
Be good to yourself, and study with zest,
And, soon, you will find you're ahead of the rest
A future time, a future place
Here on Earth or out in space
The doors are open, come on through
Learn the skills, it's up to you
We hear it over again
Live for today
For tomorrow
May be the end
Still another day
Comes and goes
What I did with it
Nobody really knows
Tomorrow is
another day
And will be fuller
Come what may
For though the future
Is not mine to predict
Still many more boxes
Waiting to be ticked
Sail fast, sail fast,
Ark of my hopes, Ark of my dreams;
Sweep lordly o'er the drowned Past,
Fly glittering through the sun's strange beams;
Sail fast, sail fast.
Breaths of new buds from off some drying lea
With news about the Future scent the sea:
My brain is beating like the heart of Haste:
I'll loose me a bird upon this Present waste;
Go, trembling song,
And stay not long; oh, stay not long:
Thou'rt only a gray and sober dove,
But thine eye is faith and thy wing is love.
The year is 2285
Everyone is getting high
It’s all about high profile
To live is to die
No more prison and trial
A free world to compile
All your sins will fly
The judgment is yours to consider
Money for nothing to ponder
Distance yourself further
No retreat and no surrender
The going will get wilder
The tough will get weaker
The ozone layer became thinner
The icebergs had landed
Low lying lands became embedded
Like thrusting a knife that is jagged
Seems like most parts are flooded
Highlands are barricaded
Population intakes are limited
To survive is to be restricted
Who’s the poor and who’s the richest?
It’s a taboo to say and yet superstitious
To be in power would be the strongest
Sharing your power could be the longest
To live that long is tremendous
And the poor would become notorious
To be left out as the monotonous
Global warming has taken its toll
It’s not like walking in the park to stroll
The heat could penetrate even your soul
No more south and north pole
Your best next home is in the hole
Behold this day a future will bring.
Snow is quietly gracing the ground.
There will then just be a silent sound.
Will it be one of which we will sing?
Tonight we’ll be skating on the pond.
By the cracking fire we’ll coddle round.
Each and ev’ry one will form a bond.
There will then just be a silent sound.
No recipe is ours to follow
Flitting in the night with the swallows.
Around and around we’ll make a ring.
Perhaps a song or two we will sing.
The ice smooth and glistening will be.
Expecting others with eagerness.
Some happiness there surely will be.
We’ll be snug like birds in a nest.
-March,2008
A toy locomotive
fresh red paint
on it’s wooden boiler
waits on time for completion.
Black and white tints
stands ready in jars
for the peeling
of masking tape.
and a grandmother’s
meticulous brushing.
The little train
In brightest color array
will match another
quilted on a toddler’s comforter.
Nathanael, know that you are richly loved
by the tender body and soul
that once enclosed your mother.
Don’t talk about the past but focus on your future
I would prefer to know about the previous
relationships of the one “my one” and I would
tell him every thing about me.
I think its something that makes
us closer to each other.
Of course I don’t like to know the details
such as how much he loved
her or what he was doing to make
her happy or what ever of these details
because it will not help or do any
good thing to the relationship but
I would ask about how these relationships ended,
why and what he didn’t like about them.....
But after talking about such things
with your partner you shouldn’t be
judgmental and you should never
talk about it again, or listen to any
one else talking to you about it,
or use it against him / her someday
because that would break your partner’s
heart and he/she will never be honest with you again.
Just listen, take what you wanted  to know,
and throw the story behind your back.
Just keep in your mind that it’s the past
and you are your partner’s present and future
and this is the only important thing now and forever.
I personally believe you should give
the second part as much information
as he/she plans to drag out of you.
If one needs to know the name of every
other gender person you talked to,
then squeeze your mind and remember.
If he/she only asks for headlines,
then go ahead and offer them but
spare him/her the details if he/she seems
not wanting to bother him/herself with the
details of a past history.
What I'm trying to say, let the other part decide
how much they want to know, and work accordingly.
10 January 2008
Looking into your eyes,
I realize... My life will never be the same.
I don't want to place any blame..
but after all it IS your fault.
I am happy and in love,
the way I smile...
The way I laugh.
I think I've finally forgotten about my past.
I dreamt that she and I had met
when we were young and fancy free.
It is a dream I shan’t forget
but will remember happily.
We fell in love and we were wed
together raised a family.
I see the pictures in my head.
My dream was Oh so right to me.
It was a dream that could not be.
We did not meet we did not wed
but yet I hold the memory.
Perhaps  allowed to look ahead
See what in time would come to be.
She married but she was betrayed
I wed and raised a brood of three.
A sad mistake which fate had made.
When we were old and fancy free.
We met as we were meant to do
The fates had reversed their decree.
Brought us together and we knew.
That you were meant to be with me
and I was meant to be with you.
Too late to have a family
I am content just finding you.
Perhaps it’s possible to see
some things which haven’t happened yet
That in due course will come to be.
A vivid dream you can’t forget.
Some sort of future memory.
I only know my dream came true
when you agreed to marry me
I had to wait so long for you.
24-Jun-07
the world beyond our shameless eyes
is drowning more than we can see
where money is what cheating buys
but never seems to grow on trees
tomorrow's dreams of yesterday
have dissipated in the heat
of poisons and ozone decay
while houses crumble in the street
our lives drone on repeatedly
toiling toward some unknown end
forlorn attempts die feebly
to fix what time itself can't mend
the government is fraudulent
and slightly skewed toward tyrany
what they say and what they meant
shout greed and mass hypocrisy
and for the future we invest
no questions asked, no answers raised
about the past we joke and jest
yet disregard the present days
but who's to blame, and who's to say?
why should the 'Land of Liberty'
or any other nation pay
for crimes of all humanity?
Future Perfect
Two auld biddies gossiping
aboot their hubbies suffering.
My Albies plagued with aches and pains
Ye knaa he’s got varry close veins..
That’s aaful pet her friend replied.
With eagerness she could not hide
My Fred has a cardiac heart.
That’s bad enuff just for a start.
He has a gastric stomach too.
He’s hard to live with I tell you.
Aah dee me best as ye well knaa,
he’s only happy doon the bar.
Supping beer he shouldn’t have
he’ll drive me to an orly grave
Ye knaa hinny but for us
they’d starve to death Its curious.
Theres neither of them fit te work
Aah wonder sometimes if the shirk
but we gan on as women dee.
We have nee time to be poorly.
They said Tara and went their way.
They’d had their gossip for the day.
There’s hoosework waiting to be dyun
we get nee help from anyone.
His lordship likes to lie in bed
He’s like a bear with a sore head.
If Aah distorb him early on
before the noonday buzzers gone.
He gets up shouting for his grub.
His breakfast forst then doon the pub.
It hurts to see him suffer so
aah doot he hasn’t lang to go.
His funerals paid for at the store
that’s one worry aah can ignore.
Aah’ll be a widow woman then
Aah divvent think aah’ll wed again.
AAh’ll get mesel a bungalow
wi lace cortins in the window.
Aah have a black dress put away
ah divest wear it ivory day
Aah keep it by for funerals
it’s ower fancy for me gals.
Aah’ll wear it when they bury me
a sight Aah will not live te see.
AAh’ll be alone when Fred has gone
but dee me best to carry on.
Nee lazy man to bother me.
Aah think aah’ll manage easily.
8-Sep-08
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
Aim is my aim,
need is my tomorrow,
want is my future,
All I need is where my future would stand,
future is my aim,
My aim would be my future.
Your journey starts here it starts now
Your future is in your hands and know one shows you how
To make it, unfold, and have it turn out what you want it to be
Not anybody, not me
Talk it a step at a time
Even if your plans are stopped on a dime
Be careful, and listen, learn from your mistakes
Because one day you'll advance on the choices you make
Your future is here, your future is now
But don't worry, you'll show yourself how
Near the shore of that eventful destiny,
hold us no resentments of the past.
From the mistakes of the past, let us
not challenge the present and my friend,
I know I hurt you and even you hurt me.
For the time on which we heal the past
and erase our eroded egos
and I promise I cause you
no further harm, from my anger
on which I reacted but not intentional.
Calm now the seashore and I know
it is not easy to forget the clouds
of shadows covered on one
good friendship and at the end
wisdom is not a flagship label
to  cover the pretences of life
And i feel it is time to forget and forgive
in grace as life is too short to settle
scores on a battlefield to dampen
the creative brightness of  future..
November 30,2008
A memory or two
Returning...reappearing
Surprisingly entering our hearts again
Not the same...always rearranged
Haunting and intriguing
Living and dying
Pushing and pulling
Remembering togetherness
Moments of shared hearts
In the midst of isolation
Remembering that we were
Not alone
No longer applying
Such long forgotten
Traces of feeling and thought
Never again will our lives
Be as they were
A future uncertain...
With unknown duration
Past reflected as if present
Selecting each moment
Wondering...searching for meaning
Past changing...as the future
Takes hold of us
in the future moments will
come when one person says
to another, “That was great! ”
we never know what
the future holds in store
for us-in it’s infinite
wisdom-but surely you and I
know of it’s impending arrival
some believe the future
holds great times ahead,
some believe in a bleak
fate and still others believe
unborn moments hold
a catastrophic end
me, I like to think that
maybe, just maybe, it
will all happen at the same
instance-I mean some things
will be great, some bleak,
some beginnings and some endings
“great” things will only
happen in the future, because
of now, and that’s tough enough
to decipher-so I will plead, now,
and leave the future to the future
I never really imagined me
The me in the future, who I'd and where
People ask me, but all i do is stop and stare
Staring through them, it's like i cannot see
I never thought of myself in the future
Because all i ever wanted was to die
And then now people ask me, so i start to try
But i still can't see me....why?
I want to be with her
In the times yet to come
But if I'll be there I'm not really sure
It makes me feel so dumb
Maybe i won't be around then
Maybe I'll be long since gone
But when i ask myself, when
When might i leave, and forget all I've ever been
Today we face the trying times
Of heartache and pain.
Many hopes and dreams are shattered,
And prayers seem to be in vain.
With the hope of peace diminishing,
The heart has no definitive song.
We've waited for an end to hostilities,
But the struggle seems so long.
Yet - there is hope for the future,
Liberty and freedom are still in command,
But God will make the ultimate decisions.
He will evaluate our worldly demands,
And he holds the future in his grasp.
Why should we despair?
He mourns and counts every tear,
And he hears and reviews every prayer.
From the outset I must state
Old men (especially these!)  and (some)  women
Are not in me to hate
And thunderstorm I pray them not to strike
Because that is where I am headed
You all know and can certainly see
The truth, so by Amadiora may I not be beheaded
Most if not at all all offices around
Have sleepy octogenarians sleeping on the job
Waking up to remind me that my turn will come round
In the future, not near, not far- somewhere there
I am future leader you see
And so was my father before me
Who in that moment of despondency
Took to chang’aa- the local gin
Searching for hope in there- such futility!
Trying to discover the future in him
Unfortunately, he died of the liver disease
When he was about to be the future leader
Sort of!
All the while the increasingly old man and woman
Through press release s and conferences
Promised him and me as well
That we were leaders of tomorrow
What tomorrow I will ask not for now I know
Perhaps I should be like that Obama boy
Seizing the moment to bring the needed change
This is a letter from me to you
To let you know that truly I do
But the words I say cannot be used freely
So this letter is telling you that I do really
I do vow to do the dishes when ever you are sick
and I do vow to get medicine from the pharmacy quick
I do vow to keep you in your wonderful dream house
and I do vow if that can't happen you'll never see a mouse
I do vow to give you all the kids you need
and I vow if you don't want to I'll take the lead
I do vow to give you the best anniversaries you ever wished
and I do vow if we leave your parents will be missed
I do vow that I will love for all of my life
So I say I do to you being my lawfully wedded wife
Copyright 8-13-07 ©® Corey Threet
PLEASE COMMENT!
In me, past, present, future meet
To hold long chiding conference.
My lusts usurp the present tense
And strangle Reason in his seat.
My loves leap through the future’s fence
To dance with dream-enfranchised feet.
In me the cave-man clasps the seer,
And garlanded Apollo goes
Chanting to Abraham’s deaf ear.
In me the tiger sniffs the rose.
Look in my heart, kind friends, and tremble,
Since there your elements assemble.
The World energy resources depleted and the oil wells are running dry
And perhaps in a decade from now the super rich will become poorer when they realize their money cannot buy
Gas to put into their big cars parked in their garages the people with nowhere to go
To yet it is a known fact out of hardship that spirituality can grow.
We are being told that this is to happen by those one might say in the know
The oil reserves won't last forever we heard of that decades ago
Yet what did we do to conserve energy we went out and bought bigger cars
And spent billions in money and wasted huge amounts of energy building rockets for research on Mars
What will happen when the oil wells will run dry when the super rich will realize
That Government Bureaucracies them were deceiving and leading them on with their lies
Will billionaires jump off of big buildings when with financial disaster they come face to face
In a decade from now the World as we know it could be a much different place.
In the future the World will be different and that may not be such a bad thing
For Nature will live on as usual and songbirds in the morning will sing
And we must go back to the pushbikes and with less pollution in the air
We will be far healthier people and more spiritually and environmentally aware.
I remember when
love was a stranger
in a lonely life I led,
then you came along,
and my world changed
for the better.
You put sunshine into my smile,
air under my shoes,
made me feel ten foot tall,
and filled with love this empty shell.
Now love walks with me,
everywhere that I go.
The lonely life I lead is no more.
You are my soul and inspiration
as into the future we go.
During the war, I was in China.
Every night we blew the world to hell.
The sky was purple and yellow
like his favorite shirt.
I was in India once
on the Ganges in a tourist boat.
There were soldiers,
some women with parasols.
A dead body floated  by
going in the opposite direction.
My son likes this story
and requests it each year at Thanksgiving.
When he was twelve,
there was an accident.
He almost went blind.
For three weeks he lay in the hospital,
his eyes bandaged.
He did not like visitors,
but if they came
he'd silently hold their hand as they talked.
Small attentions
are all he requires.
Tell him you never saw anyone
so adept
at parallel parking.
Still, your life will not be easy.
Just look in the drawer where he keeps his socks.
Nothing matches.  And what's the turtle shell
doing there, or the map of the moon,
or the surgeon's plastic model of a take-apart heart?
You must understand --
he doesn't see the world clearly.
Once he screamed, "The woods are on fire!"
when it was only a blue cloud of insects
lifting from the trees.
But he's a good boy.
He likes to kiss
and be kissed.
I remember mornings
he would wake me, stroking my whiskers
and kissing my hand.
He'll tell you -- and it's true --
he prefers the green of your eyes
to all the green life
of heaven and earth.
Anonymous submission.
The soul it seeks to perch and pray
A tune that renders fine
Without a stop when started forth
It hopes to sing a line
With feathers wafting at its crest
Like hornets in its nest
In storm and lightning thunderous sounds
Appeal to all in zest
The warmth that beats within the chest
Is hard concealed to spin
But in the cold and on the seas
Its surely bound to win
Look to the future
Detach from the past
Let the people go
Start a new this time
Look to the future
Love like it’ll last
Dream like it’s forever
No move envy
Look to the future
Have the star life
Learn from others
Take it in
Look to the future
Be proud with yourself
No more lies
No more disguises
Look to the future
Solve the unresolved
Be someone’s firefly
Stop living for yourself
Look to the future
Be the person
You dream to be
Stop fantasizing
Look to the future
It’s only gets brighter
From here on out
Detach from the past
Look to the future
Dreams weren’t farfetched for me
Life wasn’t bad for me
I got everything I wanted,
Power and ability, and even opportunity
But I ignored something unknown.
I got an opportunity,
But I did not complete my wish.
I did not misuse my opportunity,
But this world has a sequence.
A flow which we all follow
Something I failed to do.
I used my powers at the wrong time.
I stepped into higher steps ignoring the lower ones.
But I failed to realize something,
I failed to realize that everything required a basement.
A basement on which it can stand.
A power on which it can function.
I ignored the lower aspects of my life,
I went for the larger ones and accomplished them with ease
But there were two things in the lower steps.
Two things that I ignored.
Time and patience.
I ignored the aspect of time, and looked into the future.
I lacked patience and was eager to reach the future.
But I failed to realize that the future did not exist.
We can never reach our future.
For, when we reach it, it becomes the present.
I failed to realize that the future is yet another present,
A present which I always ignored.
I failed to realize that we can control only our present.
Use the present wisely, and the future will follow up.
I failed to see the hidden mask of future.
A mask, if opened, showed that the future is just another present.
Not solely that the Future she destroys,
And the fair life which in the distance lies
For all men, beckoning out from dim rich skies:
Nor that the passing hour's supporting joys
Have lost the keen-edged flavour, which begat
Distinction in old times, and still should breed
Sweet Memory, and Hope,--earth's modest seed,
And heaven's high-prompting: not that the world is flat
Since that soft-luring creature I embraced,
Among the children of Illusion went:
Methinks with all this loss I were content,
If the mad Past, on which my foot is based,
Were firm, or might be blotted: but the whole
Of life is mixed: the mocking Past will stay:
And if I drink oblivion of a day,
So shorten I the stature of my soul.
I sit me down to think and write,
How to lead my Future Life,
Knowing it’s set by HIM alone,
But I don’t want to remain at Home.
For forty years I’ve toiled at work,
Difficult tasks I’ve not shirked,
But at Sixty Two I’ve more years to learn,
And from difficulties, I will not squirm.
But what will I do?
What will I learn?
Will I be happy?
For answers I yearn.
I wish to change my Life,
Be Happy and Well,
Have Peace of Mind,
Before the Final Bell.
I’m ‘Set in my Ways’,
I acknowledge that fact,
But change my Life I must,
With Discretion and Tact.
© Jonathan Goldman [JGthepoet] – 4 May 2006
Before me stands I see,
a faceless form of the future.
I see an engraved darkness of her face,
so that I shall not know,
who this faceless person will be,
or our meeting how.
An before me I see the beauty of all creation,
so that I shall know not to yield to temptation.
For every mortal there is a weakness,
and within this weakness, temptation has its strength.
For me after my future love I’ve seen,
temptation seems heartless and mean.
Even though I guard against,
I am helpless in a sense.
For like a flower straight and tall,
must bend with the wind.
Therefore, I must lean a little when temptation calls.
(Date unknown, early 1970’s I think)
me and you
against the world.
that's the way it's always been
you keep my sane,
you keep me happy,
you keep my head above the water,
always telling me to keep my chin up.
the moment i heard stevie wonder i knew,
it was you and me forever.
'cos i luv you,
i just like the things you do,
dont you change the things you do'
the violins play,
i smile.
music means so much,
memories play like a home movie,
frozen stills of happy times,
of smiles and jokes, of tears and heartache,
of you and me. together.
my cynicism has evaporated,
my heart is full of happiness,
i hate to sound cheesy
but i want to spend my life with you,
i want to grow old with you,
i want to be happy with you,
you are my past present and future.
i want to wake up with you every monring,
not just every sunday,
i want your smile to be the first thing i see
and the last.
My future is already set
My future is finding the right person for me
I plan on keeping that one forever
This future tells me that i am going to have a perfect husband
My future tells me that i would be doing what i love in life
This future tells me to keep my dreams and opition open
In my future i am going to be a great mother
This future tells me already that i am going to have the man i always wanted and a babygirl named Dymond the name i always wanted too.
My future id just perfect....
My future
My future sounds like it so far away
but it gets closer to me each and every day
Im not sure on what I truly want to be
Everyone around is just confusing me
I promise my family and friends;
I will pursue a career.
But im always getting distracted by my peers.
The things that say seem to always get to me.
But in the future they will eventually see.
They'll see that my hardwork will pay off
They'll be begging my for help on my paid days off
Im smart but at times I refrain to use my brain
If I dont decide to now; Ill go insane.
As Im writing Im thinking about my future life
Whether someday the man of my dreams will call me his wife
So I'd better make up my mind
And prepare for my future! .
today i cry myself to sleep
tomorrow i still just weep
next week, my spiral still goes down
feeling like a big clown
not knowing where i'll end up...
i panic, trying to save money but,
losing it to too many bills
next month, will i be over the hill?
or living in my car?
or working at the Nevada bar?
it scares me to think about it
i dont like my life one bit
wishing i'd be hit by a truck
but i dont have such good luck
today i cry myself to sleep
tomorrow is still just weep
next week my sprial still goes down.
Next month...it scares me not to know.
(1-12-08)
"Let's make him a sailor," said Father,
"And he will adventure the sea."
"A soldier," said Mother, "is rather
What I would prefer him to be."
"A lawyer," said Father, "would please me,
For then he could draw up my will."
"A doctor," said Mother, "would ease me;
Maybe he could give me a pill."
Said Father: "Lt's make him a curate,
A Bishop in gaiters to be."
Said Mother: "I couldn't endure it
To have Willie preaching to me."
Said Father: ""Let him be a poet;
So often he's gathering wool."
Said Mother with temper: "Oh stow it!
You know it, a poet's a fool."
Said Farther: "Your son is a duffer,
A stupid and mischievous elf."
Said Mother, who's rather a huffer:
"That's right - he takes after yourself."
Controlling parental emotion
They turned to me, seeking a cue,
And sudden conceived the bright notion
To ask what I wanted to do.
Said I: "my ambition is modest:
A clown in a circus I'd be,
And turn somersaults in the sawdust
With audience laughing at me."
. . . Poor parents! they're dead and decaying,
But I am a clown as you see;
And though in no circus I'm playing,
How people are laughing at me!
You are my sole hope in all my life.
The last dejection has gone away
When I met you on that very day.
All the troubles are completely gone;
From now on, I am no more alone.
You are my sole hope in all my life,
My all reason to live – my future wife.
Living and hoping to still keep you
By my heart and soul – and it's for true,
My all reason to live, my future wife.
I'd love to live by your side to death,
And take away, for you, my last breath.
I can be everything when you are near,
And leave behind any issues; my dear.
You are my sole hope in all my life,
You've really made me the man I am,
And got me head over heels out of jam
– My all reason to live, my future wife.
You are my sole hope in all my life,
My all reason to live – my future wife.
im a little confused right now so in other words im not really sure
if i can slow down or even stop my past becoming my future
i can  see it comin a mile away
what can i do? what can i say?
who even cares seriously cause in all reality im not even sure that i do..
i try and try to do the right thing
but it just feels like stress and more stress is all it brings
now i want you to realize that this is not written and this one is off he top of my head
maybe im havin a bad day and i need to vent
or maybe its somethin someone said...
im good though i feel better already...
and thats the magic of poetry...
Our Future
Lies within the roots
Of the seeds
We have planted.
MY future will not copy fair my past
On any leaf but Heaven's. Be fully done,
Supernal Will ! I would not fain be one
Who, satisfying thirst and breaking fast
Upon the fulness of the heart, at last
Saith no grace after meat. My wine hath run
Indeed out of my cup, and there is none
To gather up the bread of my repast
Scattered and trampled ! Yet I find some good
In earth's green herbs, and streams that bubble up
Clear from the darkling ground, -- content until
I sit with angels before better food.
Dear Christ ! when thy new vintage fills my cup,
This hand shall shake no more, nor that wine spill.
The new hath come and now the old retires:
And so the past becomes a mountain-cell,
Where lone, apart, old hermit-memories dwell
In consecrated calm, forgotten yet
Of the keen heart that hastens to forget
Old longings in fulfilling new desires.
And now the Soul stands in a vague, intense
Expectancy and anguish of suspense,
On the dim chamber-threshold . . . lo! he sees
Like a strange, fated bride as yet unknown,
His timid future shrinking there alone,
Beneath her marriage-veil of mysteries.
Sitting in my garden chair
Surrounded with little flowers
Breeze tenderly touching
And lending a new feel
Brooding over the past
Thinking about wins and failures
About the people walked out
About the things not done
Getting away with present
No time to stop and think
Just doing, doing and doing
Just what is necessary today!
Hoping for the future
Dreaming of new horizons
About that special someone
And how life will change
My past is full of trouble
My present is filled with wisdom
My future is very uncertain
Which way do i go
Who should i listen to
My past has answers
My present seek questions
My future uncertain
Who am i
Who are they
What do you want
My past
My Present
My future
My life
Yet i don't know my future
But i hope i thrive on what i have learned
And what i have learned is what will make me surrive
Life
Past is not a
pessimistic reminder
but a golden guideline
for all humans to enter
cautiously to a luminous
lively Present, fathom
and explore in a  way
to reach the threshold
of  optimistic Future...
August 17,2008
7.05 am
They spend no time together
Yet they're relatively linked
These three birds of a feather
Who march through time in sync
Present is right now
Past is just before it
Future rightly vows
Nothing will detour it
The past flies by too fast
It's movement so incessant
And with a final gasp
Bestows on us the present
The past is understood
When at present we look back
Most memories are good
But some do sadly lack
For the time that's yet to be
The future, as it's known
Let's prepare it present-ly
With good memories all it's own
I am the past.
I ask the questions.
Your mission:
imagine the answers
that are true
for only you,
and the world
which you have
created.
The Greeks said, those great Muses
who civilise us, grace our dance of life,
were once, before they were nine,
just three; and before that,
only one was named: and she was, Memory.
Does that make poets just regurgitators
of what’s already been oft said -
and better, too, some would aver…?
No, it’s more subtle than that; ask a poet:
a poem that comes warm, hot,  from the human heart
demands a summary birth; won’t hang around
while you go out to buy more toys and frills
to hang around the cot…
it is indeed,  more like remembering:
as if you step into a timeless place
where all that’s needful is to remember
what the future poem shall, will, have said..
write it down; and maybe sleep on it;
when you wake, you may remember
two lines somewhere which you’d forgotten,
but know exactly where that is…
That Muse of memory will then decide
whether a poem that has a timeless birth,
may have a timeless life... or  not...
How can a poet claim a poem as his, or hers,
when such a Muse? and yet, so close at hand?
I know you're not born yet
But one day you will be
This is your father
That one day you'll see
Theres things you should know
Things good and bad about me
I'm nice, caring, and a real friend
This is me until the end
I'm sad, depressed, and rejected
This is the bad in me
I hope you're not affected
Just because my father never would
I'll love you the best that I could
I'll be there for you, bad or good
I'll feel your pain, so you'll feel ok
Promise me, you'll go to school
I can't wait for that day
So I could lay down the father rule
Until you're born and things are such
Know that your father loves you very much.
Sometimes…..I travel back to my past,
Down the memory lanes.
I find myself alone, lost in vain,
I see myself struggling, to live in this world,
With pain in my heart, that I could never tell in words.
I looked for a shoulder, which could give me support,
But no one heard me and passed on to their roads,
Than you walked in, with a wonderful smile,
This gave me strength and love for life,
The touch of your hand and your talking eyes,
Made me sure, it is you for whom my heart cries.
Sometimes…I look in to my present,
With my eyes wide open,
‘cause I never thought it would happen,
My worries have gone & I have lost my pain,
All I’ve got is luv and your smile like a Summer Rain,
The power of love and the strength of your words,
Has made me eager to live in this world,
Smile on your lips and happiness in your eyes,
This is all where my world lies.
Sometimes….I look in to the future
With dreams in my eyes,
Kissing your lips at every sunrise
I see you with me wrapped in my arms,
Giving you love and all the charms,
‘cause you are the one who has changed my life,
So I always dream you as my loving wife,
Now I always wish to forget my past,
& luv you forever until my breath last,
I pray to God may my dreams come true,
& I could always tell that “I Love You”.
We stand together, united as one,
forward on we go, facing friend and foe.
We do not turn back for regret;
we have not time for that.
If we make mistakes
we will repair them at a future time,
we can stop to help an injured soul,
for a brief moment in time as we go.
Our mission lies, somewhere in the future,
so we cannot linger here.
What our mission is, only someone else knows.
We will know what it is
before the final curtains close.
'Tis strange that in a land so strong
So strong and bold in mighty youth,
We have no poet's voice of truth
To sing for us a wondrous song.
Our chiefest singer yet has sung
In wild, sweet notes a passing strain,
All carelessly and sadly flung
To that dull world he thought so vain.
"I care for nothing, good nor bad,
My hopes are gone, my pleasures fled,
I am but sifting sand," he said:
What wonder Gordon's songs were sad!
And yet, not always sad and hard;
In cheerful mood and light of heart
He told the tale of Britomarte,
And wrote the Rhyme of Joyous Garde.
And some have said that Nature's face
To us is always sad; but these
Have never felt the smiling grace
Of waving grass and forest trees
On sunlit plains as wide as seas.
"A land where dull Despair is king
O'er scentless flowers and songless bird!"
But we have heard the bell-birds ring
Their silver bells at eventide,
Like fairies on the mountain side,
The sweetest note man ever heard.
The wild thrush lifts a note of mirth;
The bronzewing pigeons call and coo
Beside their nests the long day through;
The magpie warbles clear and strong
A joyous, glad, thanksgiving song,
For all God's mercies upon earth.
And many voices such as these
Are joyful sounds for those to tell,
Who know the Bush and love it well,
With all its hidden mysteries.
We cannot love the restless sea,
That rolls and tosses to and fro
Like some fierce creature in its glee;
For human weal or human woe
It has no touch of sympathy.
For us the bush is never sad:
Its myriad voices whisper low,
In tones the bushmen only know,
Its sympathy and welcome glad.
For us the roving breezes bring
From many a blossum-tufted tree --
Where wild bees murmur dreamily --
The honey-laden breath of Spring.
*       *       *       *
We have our tales of other days,
Good tales the northern wanderers tell
When bushmen meet and camp-fires blaze,
And round the ring of dancing light
The great, dark bush with arms of night
Folds every hearer in its spell.
We have our songs -- not songs of strife
And hot blood spilt on sea and land;
But lilts that link achievement grand
To honest toil and valiant life.
Lift ye your faces to the sky
Ye barrier mountains in the west
Who lie so peacefully at rest
Enshrouded in a haze of blue;
'Tis hard to feel that years went by
Before the pioneers broke through
Your rocky heights and walls of stone,
And made your secrets all their own.
For years the fertile Western plains
Were hid behind your sullen walls,
Your cliffs and crags and waterfalls
All weatherworn with tropic rains.
Between the mountains and the sea
Like Israelites with staff in hand,
The people waited restlessly:
They looked towards the mountains old
And saw the sunsets come and go
With gorgeous golden afterglow,
That made the West a fairyland,
And marvelled what that West might be
Of which such wondrous tales were told.
For tales were told of inland seas
Like sullen oceans, salt and dead,
And sandy deserts, white and wan,
Where never trod the foot of man,
Nor bird went winging overhead,
Nor ever stirred a gracious breeze
To wake the silence with its breath --
A land of loneliness and death.
At length the hardy pioneers
By rock and crag found out the way,
And woke with voices of today
A silence kept for years and tears.
Upon the Western slope they stood
And saw -- a wide expanse of plain
As far as eye could stretch or see
Go rolling westward endlessly.
The native grasses, tall as grain,
Bowed, waved and rippled in the breeze;
From boughs of blossom-laden trees
The parrots answered back again.
They saw the land that it was good,
A land of fatness all untrod,
And gave their silent thanks to God.
The way is won! The way is won!
And straightway from the barren coast
There came a westward-marching host,
That aye and ever onward prest
With eager faces to the West,
Along the pathway of the sun.
The mountains saw them marching by:
They faced the all-consuming drought,
They would not rest in settled land:
But, taking each his life in hand,
Their faces ever westward bent
Beyond the farthest settlement,
Responding to the challenge cry
of "better country farther out".
And lo, a miracle! the land
But yesterday was all unknown,
The wild man's boomerang was thrown
Where now great busy cities stand.
It was not much, you say, that these
Should win their way where none withstood;
In sooth there was not much of blood --
No war was fought between the seas.
It was not much! but we who know
The strange capricious land they trod --
At times a stricken, parching sod,
At times with raging floods beset --
Through which they found their lonely way
Are quite content that you should say
It was not much, while we can feel
That nothing in the ages old,
In song or story written yet
On Grecian urn or Roman arch,
Though it should ring with clash of steel,
Could braver histories unfold
Than this bush story, yet untold --
The story of their westward march.
*       *       *       *
But times are changed, and changes rung
From old to new -- the olden days,
The old bush life and all its ways,
Are passing from us all unsung.
The freedom, and the hopeful sense
Of toil that brought due recompense,
Of room for all, has passed away,
And lies forgotten with the dead.
Within our streets men cry for bread
In cities built but yesterday.
About us stretches wealth of land,
A boundless wealth of virgin soil
As yet unfruitful and untilled!
Our willing workmen, strong and skilled,
Within our cities idle stand,
And cry aloud for leave to toil.
The stunted children come and go
In squalid lanes and alleys black:
We follow but the beaten track
Of other nations, and we grow
In wealth for some -- for many, woe.
And it may be that we who live
In this new land apart, beyond
The hard old world grown fierce and fond
And bound by precedent and bond,
May read the riddle right, and give
New hope to those who dimly see
That all things yet shall be for good,
And teach the world at length to be
One vast united brotherhood.
*       *       *       *
So may it be! and he who sings
In accents hopeful, clear, and strong,
The glories which that future brings
Shall sing, indeed, a wondrous song.
XLII
'My future will not copy fair my past'—
I wrote that once; and thinking at my side
My ministering life-angel justified
The word by his appealing look upcast
To the white throne of God, I turned at last,
And there, instead, saw thee, not unallied
To angels in thy soul! Then I, long tried
By natural ills, received the comfort fast,
While budding, at thy sight, my pilgrim's staff
Gave out green leaves with morning dews impearled.
I seek no copy now of life's first half:
Leave here the pages with long musing curled,
And write me new my future's epigraph,
New angel mine, unhoped for in the world!
Poems I thought had good rhythm and Rhyme,
And a moral good at the end of each;
Good Poems I thought should the test of time,
And remained well within the masses’ reach.
Poems I thought had nice music in them,
With apt words placed in right place in each case;
It was a time for Poetry’s Anthem;
Alas, the art is in for a rat-race!
Modern Poetry that is being writ,
From Prose is hard to ever from it sift;
Slang, vulgarities somehow find a place;
’Tis doomsday for poetry at this pace!
Turned has the Wheel of Time almost fully;
’Tis time to draw water with the pulley!
I do not change my future on my own;
God has been doing that for me till now;
Amidst my earthly problems, I’m alone;
Nevertheless, I’m safe: I don’t know how?
Some people work all by themselves in life;
Their trust in themselves is more than in God;
They scheme to drive out penury and strife;
Nevertheless, they get their earthly rod.
The one who puts his trust in God is wise;
His peace of mind and heart are excellent;
The one who trusts himself lands up in vice;
He wastes his precious time that God has lent.
Have faith in God and future looks alright;
The atheist does suffer sad a plight.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-9-2008
My future will not copy fair my past -
I wrote that once; and thinking at my side
My ministering life-angel justified
The word by his appealing look upcast
To the white throne of God, I turned at last,
And there, instead, saw thee, not unallied
To angels in thy soul! Then I, long tried
By natural ills, received the comfort fast,
While budding, at thy sight, my pilgrim's staff
Gave out green leaves with morning dews impearled.
I seek no copy now of life's first half:
Leave here the pages with long musing curled,
And write me new my future's epigraph,
New angel mine, unhoped for in the world!
Your fingertips graze across my skin...
Soft lips gently caress my warm flesh...
Exquisite pleasure building within...
A sinful lust you can't hold back...
Body aching to capture, release...
Coming together in waves of need...
A hectic rhythm that just won't cease...
Our sinful lust we can't hold back...
Fingers, nails, digging deep...
Hoarse whispers fill the air with sound...
In blissful escape together we weep...
In sinful lust we couldn't hold back...
Two months later, a small surprise...
Adding to a list of troubles...
One night, and a future of baby's cries...
It was sinful lust that ruined our lives.
(I feel the need to note that I do not have a child.  I chose a random subject, namely sex, and this was the turn that it took.  I don't really feel this way. kthx.)
As mountains dwell in timeless sleep, as seasons come and go
As oceans roll across the deep, as forests slowly grow
An evil has been gathering, a dark age has begun
All life on earth shall rue this day, the time of man has come
With axe and pick that chop and chip, the land shall be stripped bare
With fire and steel, that burn and deal a death to all who care
With hate and greed, that fuel and feed the coming of the end
Into a fate consumed with hate our world will now descend
As mountains wake, roar and quake, as seasons loose their sway
As oceans rise to turn the tide, and forests die away
A giant is awakening, a cleansing will ensue
All life on earth shall rue this day; the debt of man is due
With rock and flame that smash and maim, life shall be erased
With flood and wave, that drowns and paves a path to deaths embrace
Mother earth begins again, but none remain to tell
That the balance is precarious, between paradise and hell
Runes and crystal balls
Tarot readings and your palms
tea leaves ring your cup
in a trance your future told
by a spirit young and old
The doubt of future foes exiles my present joy,
And wit me warns to shun such snares as threaten mine annoy;
For falsehood now doth flow, and subjects' faith doth ebb,
Which should not be if reason ruled or wisdom weaved the web.
But clouds of joys untried do cloak aspiring minds,
Which turn to rain of late repent by changed course of winds.
The top of hope supposed the root upreared shall be,
And fruitless all their grafted guile, as shortly ye shall see.
The dazzled eyes with pride, which great ambition blinds,
Shall be unsealed by worthy wights whose foresight falsehood finds.
The daughter of debate that discord aye doth sow
Shall reap no gain where former rule still peace hath taught to know.
No foreign banished wight shall anchor in this port;
Our realm brooks not seditious sects, let them elsewhere resort.
My rusty sword through rest shall first his edge employ
To poll their tops that seek such change or gape for future joy.
The Flowers of the Future
-At present you plant a seed of truth, for your beautiful blossoms of the future
I am a diligent gardener,
Who walked into your heartland by chance,
I saw the large land out of cultivation,
Seems there has not been a spring for a long time.
So I said,
'Let's cultivate here a little. Make it a lawn.'
You said impatiently,
'Forget it! You are wasting your effort.'
I smiled,
'Let's grow some flowers here and make it a garden.'
You hesitated and said,
'Forget it. I don't see any meaning in it.'
I drew your hand to me and put a seed in it, a sparkling seed with fantastic splendour.
'This seed is called Truth.
It can blossom into the most beautiful flower in the world.'
Curiosity flashed through your eyes,
'The most beautiful flower in the world? '
'Yes, people call that flower Future! '
Then I held your hands and planted the fantastic seed in the land.
The Truth then took root, sprouted, and had its first leaf.
You were so happy, you watered and fertilised it everyday.
You blocked the wind and kept the rain off
Just like this,
Together with the seed,
You went through the chilly spring, hot summer, desolate fall and piercingly cold winter.
When the last chill in the wind faded,
The seed of Truth had its first bud.
You were so excited that you could not sleep for nights.
Waiting aside for the flower to burst
Finally, on that unusual morning,
Butterflies dancing over the grass,
Birds singing on the branches,
The bud burst into a flower,
So beautiful and moving.
The splendour of Truth suddenly cast colourful lights upon the meadow.
You clapped your hands and shouted loudly,
'Hurry up and look, Gardener.
Our Truth has blossomed.
How beautiful is our Future! '
However, the Gardener had already left quietly, leaving the beautiful Future for you.
Later, the meadow became a garden, with beautiful flowers of Future all over.
You named the garden a pleasant name:
'Future Garden'
Will you still occasionally think of me, the gardener?
If so, just whisper my name.
I will definitely hear you.
I will quietly stand above the clouds,
And look at you with smile.
By a practitioner in China
In this world which will someday fall to ruims
Dreams and hopes don't matter at all
Oh, because you're asleep within your heart
You will never awake
But feel with those hands
The future that can't be changed
Runing from your life
Even if I sacrifice this life
That will someday burn out
Drowing in my dream
Even if I drown
A dream is only but a dream
You are my starlight
The future is not ours to see
Whatever the future
Bring to us
We should be garateful
For that
Today the future in the Middle East, as we hear, sounds very bleak.
As people with a deceptive heart, are looking for a brand new start,
Moving many men to understand, a crucial need to remap the land.
This to eradicate the Land of Israel, totally justified by a wicked will.
The tiny land men call Palestine, will be subdued by a force Divine.
The promise given to Abraham, by the will of God will forever stand.
The terror that now rules the land, will be eliminated by God’s Hand.
The Lord Himself shall intervene, with His presence upon the scene.
The present land on the world scene, was the land of the Philistines.
That ancient land was conquered by, Joshua’s army for God on high.
It was never subdued totally friend, but that mistake was not the end.
Eternal God, whose land this is, through King David took care of this.
For God put David on the Throne, in that land which is Israel’s home,
As the King of the Promised Land, that God had granted to Abraham.
God swore to David as the King, the reign he began was everlasting.
He reigned as King in Jerusalem, where all shall see God’s Own Son.
The land will be subdued for sure, by Jesus Christ, Messiah and Lord.
Never again shall it be the same, after Jesus Christ begins His Reign.
Christ will purge The Promised Land, for the descendents of Abraham.
Then all of Israel shall live secure, under the Reign of Christ our Lord.
(Copyright ©01/2006)
Now this lady she parades round her shopping mall
She admires herself as she stands strong and tall
She window shops the jewellers but doesnt buy a thing
But somehow comes home all kitted out in Bling
She spends many a night gambling her benefits on strip poker
But loses the lot to her friend the pawn broker
She begs her future hubby, shes so desperate she'll rob
'If you want gems my love you'll have to go get a job'
Hes doing a stretch in prison - got hammered with 'life'
For selling his poor seventy five year old wife
She was the first bride that  he met on the net
But his obsession for bling got as hard as it could get
So he made out an advert  that said 'Lady of the night'
And put up her pic on that famous auction site
Now Earnest he sleeps with Babs pic by his bed
The magistrates have solemly granted they wed
But poor old Earnest Bling aint a penny to his name
So his dear fiancee Babs takes a job 'on the game'
Now the happy day arrives, her dress black and gold pleat
Along comes handcuffed Earnest -who has freezing cold feet
'Im jilting you darling Ive been foolish you see'
'Marriage is for life and I need to be free! '
672
The Future—never spoke—
Nor will He—like the Dumb—
Reveal by sign—a syllable
Of His Profound To Come—
But when the News be ripe—
Presents it—in the Act—
Forestalling Preparation—
Escape—or Substitute—
Indifference to Him—
The Dower—as the Doom—
His Office—but to execute
Fate's—Telegram—to Him—
(Isaiah, ix. 15-20)
Hear what God the Lord hath spoken,
"O my people, faint and few,
Comfortless, afflicted, broken,
Fair abodes I build for you.
Thorns of heartfelt tribulation
Shall no more perplex your ways;
You shall name your walls, Salvation,
And your gates shall all be Praise.
"There, like streams that feed the garden,
Pleasures without end shall flow,
For the Lord, your faith rewarding,
All His bounty shall bestow;
Still in undisturb'd possession
Peace and righteousness shall reign;
Never shall you feel oppression,
Hear the voice of war again.
"Ye no more your suns descending,
Waning moons no more shall see;
But your griefs forever ending,
Find eternal noon in me:
God shall rise, and shining o'er ye,
Change to day the gloom of night;
He, the Lord, shall be your glory,
God your everlasting light."
Is it true?
that the future is always bright
in the past
there was not much light
The future is ours to behold
but what I was told
in the future
you get old
The future will come
this is sure
yours and mine
one sec. at a time
Until the final curtain
our lives uncertain
what the future will bring
will be exciting
Give me back my broken night
my mirrored room, my secret life
it's lonely here,
there's no one left to torture
Give me absolute control
over every living soul
And lie beside me, baby,
that's an order!
A wanderer is man from his birth.
He was born in a ship
On the breast of the river of Time;
Brimming with wonder and joy
He spreads out his arms to the light,
Rivets his gaze on the banks of the stream.
As what he sees is, so have his thoughts been.
Whether he wakes,
Where the snowy mountainous pass,
Echoing the screams of the eagles,
Hems in its gorges the bed
Of the new-born clear-flowing stream;
Whether he first sees light
Where the river in gleaming rings
Sluggishly winds through the plain;
Whether in sound of the swallowing sea--
As is the world on the banks,
So is the mind of the man.
Vainly does each, as he glides,
Fable and dream
Of the lands which the river of Time
Had left ere he woke on its breast,
Or shall reach when his eyes have been closed.
Only the tract where he sails
He wots of; only the thoughts,
Raised by the objects he passes, are his.
Who can see the green earth any more
As she was by the sources of Time?
Who imagines her fields as they lay
In the sunshine, unworn by the plough?
Who thinks as they thought,
The tribes who then roam'd on her breast,
Her vigorous, primitive sons?
What girl
Now reads in her bosom as clear
As Rebekah read, when she sate
At eve by the palm-shaded well?
Who guards in her breast
As deep, as pellucid a spring
Of feeling, as tranquil, as sure?
What bard,
At the height of his vision, can deem
Of God, of the world, of the soul,
With a plainness as near,
As flashing as Moses felt
When he lay in the night by his flock
On the starlit Arabian waste?
Can rise and obey
The beck of the Spirit like him?
This tract which the river of Time
Now flows through with us, is the plain.
Gone is the calm of its earlier shore.
Border'd by cities and hoarse
With a thousand cries is its stream.
And we on its breast, our minds
Are confused as the cries which we hear,
Changing and shot as the sights which we see.
And we say that repose has fled
For ever the course of the river of Time.
That cities will crowd to its edge
In a blacker, incessanter line;
That the din will be more on its banks,
Denser the trade on its stream,
Flatter the plain where it flows,
Fiercer the sun overhead.
That never will those on its breast
See an ennobling sight,
Drink of the feeling of quiet again.
But what was before us we know not,
And we know not what shall succeed.
Haply, the river of Time--
As it grows, as the towns on its marge
Fling their wavering lights
On a wider, statelier stream--
May acquire, if not the calm
Of its early mountainous shore,
Yet a solemn peace of its own.
And the width of the waters, the hush
Of the grey expanse where he floats,
Freshening its current and spotted with foam
As it draws to the Ocean, may strike
Peace to the soul of the man on its breast--
As the pale waste widens around him,
As the banks fade dimmer away,
As the stars come out, and the night-wind
Brings up the stream
Murmurs and scents of the infinite sea.
The future: time's excuse
to frighten us; too vast
a project, too large a morsel
for the heart's mouth.
Future, who won't wait for you?
Everyone is going there.
It suffices you to deepen
the absence that we are.
Translated by A. Poulin
What does the future hold for us?
Smog filled skies and poison cars,
And broken land with useless dust
And nature’s beauty behind bars.
Can I ever show my children,
(If they ever come my way)
The beauty of a sunset
At the ending of the day?
Can I walk into a forest,
And surround myself with trees,
Yet know that it will remain,
For me to visit as I please.
I know that I can today
Do all the things I’ve said,
But when today is yesterday,
Will all these things be dead?
This problem is enormous
As we gradually take heed,
So we must fix it quickly,
Using words and thoughts and deeds.'
Every one wants to be different
Yet every one looks the same
This fashion industry drives me insane
The hip hip kiddies on the street
Thinking that they listen to something new and neat
We are all turning into sheep
Driven by the 'industry'..
One day I see a million clones
All walking wearing the same boring clothes
All using the same products!
A scary future where the industry has run amuck
“To the future” I say and “good luck”
It was an English publication - 1932,
In the States a rough equivalent of 'Better Homes and Gardens'
But there was one strange twist as
It sang of one glorious enough to be:
'The savior of Western Christain civilizatiion
against the Bolshevik menace.'
Adolf Hitler
Not a bad introduction to the world of sin.
Within the dread of the moment
I must dought that Shakespeare
Sat up all night, Writing his plays
Knowing they'd be timeless
One man
An epic in writing
By accident
Maybe one day
Once I have long since passed
Someone will come across
The pages I breathed life into
And maybe, out of mere curiosity
They may read my words and find symbolism
That I never meant to include
Maybe, in 300 years
I shall be an epic in the world of poetry
(If one still reads poetry by then)
And maybe I'll become famous as Shakespeare
Or Edgar Allen Poe; maybe I'll be known
For something I never meant to do
Myabe I'll be known for this
You do not
confuse me
you only confound
the issues.
I am not taken back
by your ignorance
only slightly
delayed by it
as I struggle
to understand
why I should care.
I am weakened
by my sense
of humanity
not by my love for it...
for my love
is the one true strength
that keeps you
from destroying me
as I pause
to consider
any possible
method to your madness......
Yesterday you ignored me
Today you think of me
Years ago, you cursed me, backbite me
Today I’m called a good person
Months ago, I was rejected for no clear reasons
Today you say if I had known, I would have accepted you
Weeks ago, I cried out my heart longing to befriend you
Today tears are flowing, longing to see me, to feel my presence, to befriend me, to hear at least my breath…
Why when it’s too late you will regret
Why regret when you could think
I was someone alone with myself and in crowd of people
You would raise your eyes when I’m falling into ruins, when I wrongly act
You would ignore me when I do good
Why you have power to hurt when I’m here
And the present would fade such power into tears, into regrets when I’m no more
Why you would call my name when a freezed air separate us now
Please don’t cry now…
Please don’t hurt my memory…
Please don’t long to see me now…
I want to return back and cry with you to pacify you
Today I’m no more in your world; I see how important I am to you
I want to return back now but it’s too late
A last word…..
Keep your feelings till we meet again
Let me go now… Peacefully At Least… To my new abode
Don’t let me miss you now…
My time has come suddenly, but the clock has not yet stopped for you
You could not love me when I was here; All you can do now is to learn how to love others in your world now…
the past is what makes me, me
the now is what i choose to be
the future is what i cant see
if i live in the past
the now wont last
the future comes fast
the past was bad
the now is sad
the future has to be glad
the past is over and gone
the now is here, so i go on
the future is soon to come
It's frightening.
I feel better,
but I'm longing for a kiss.
One simple kiss
or maybe
not so simple.
I just want someone
to hold me when
the nights are empty.
Or maybe when I am
Far away, someone
to call me
when I'm blue.
I feel safer w/o someone
I'm free to linger, to laugh,
To flirt
But self esteem points
have reached down to the
negatives since my last
pathetic boyfriend.
I sit down sometimes and think:
Who the hell am I angry at?
Am I angry at the world?
Am I angry at you?
I'm not sure.
All I know is that the
more someone loves me
the more I hate them.
The more someone rejects me
That's when I want them around.
I guess I was doomed to lead
a dreary spinster life,
Or maybe settle down
with some rich jerk
who doesn't want me.
Either way I won't get very
many kisses or a phone
call when I'm far
away and
lonely.
The bombs have caused death and destruction and the families mourn their dead
But there is hope for the future for better days ahead
When those for peace and World harmony will finally prevail
For those who talk of waging war are surely doomed to fail.
There is hope for the future though I may not live to see my dream
Of a better life for everyone in a World where peace will reign supreme
A World free of borders and camps for refugees
Where the smell of death and destruction is not blowing in the breeze
There is hope for the future around me not all dark
I hear young children playing in the playground in the park
The children are the future and they may well unite
Behind a peaceful leader who won't lead by power of might.
There is hope for the future and all surely not lost
Though there won't be peace tomorrow and 'twill come at a great cost
The Rose of Peace will bloom again though with the dead I lay
And the young and enlightened leaders to peace will lead the way.
I have climbed the mountains of wonder
I have seen the valleys of death
I have wakened the deaf with silence
I have suffocated immortals with breath
I have run from sure victory
I have stared in the face of defeat
I have bottled the wind from the ocean
I have prevailed when surely beat
All this I have done
All this and more
I know what the past is
But none of what's in store
Will the earth convulse in sadness?
Will dawn break and joy reign again?
Can we venture to the depths of space?
Can we travel to any when?
Confusion and a cacophony
Of breath and stilling air
The future does not matter
Because we are already there
The Ultimate Future
The Ultimate Future
We cannot Know
God must Save us
From Dying Alone.
I've had a good innings time has left me gray
The future belongs to the youth of today
Allow them their passion for time hurries by
As life is for to live well and for to enjoy,
Our biological time clocks on our lives are ticking away
And though wisdom comes with ageing some are known to say
And though credit should be given to whoever it's due
No fool like an old fool can also be true,
Allow the youth their passion allow them to dream
Though reality in their eyes may not be what it seem
In the eyes of a child one in their twenties is one who looks old
We believe all we see but not all we are told
And though for saying it many may say of me that I am wrong
The youth to the future will always belong.
Universes collide,
scorched sky-
pastel people, rainbows of the world
So many dreams and nightmares
I would like to leave with you,
if I could bring my pen
to touch the page.
We are time:
wrapped neatly in flesh and bone and thoughts-
We are lost-
we look for castles in the clouds,
cities beneath the earth-
learn of our history to understand our future.
We toil and cry with our Mothers to be born of our Father's flesh.
They tell me: life is a blessing, no matter the circumstance,
no matter that we are born, drunk on our Mother's failures,
made to bear the burdens of our Father.
Mother says: I labored to bring you into this world.
I tell her: and I will labor when you leave it.
we've completed this uneasy circle
of hours rapidly bringing an absolution-
' and how does that make you feel? '
' like everyone else I suppose '
Time My Past My Future
The time  is racing my past behind me
NO!
My past in front,
My future behind,
I wasn't thinking of my future,
I was back in my past.
But now this is my story! ! ! !
A mother who did not love me,
A sister a  brother trying to comfort me,
I felt all alone
Now inhale
and
Exhale.
My future
A mother, A brother, once upon a time a father,
But no more
I stride for my future,
Not for my past
I tell you children
NEVER Look Back! ! !
But i do wondering......
I f my past was different would my future be better?
Would it?
Never mind that,
The time is racing to my future
I live for today and NOT tomarrow.
So I Never Look Back.
Forgetting all my care
Soaking the night's air
As I sit in the gentle breeze
It almost brings me to my knees.
Finally seeing what Allah had in store,
I look and I listen at creation galore.
When I think of the different types of love,
It moves me to help create a solution.
What will happen in ten years or more,
If we pass off the problems or simply ignore?
The happiness we had today will turn into sorrow,
So pitch in and help for a better tomorrow.
This single link was else respected
By people of the days that gone –
There’s written on its tablet sacred
That Love and Life is one.
But you’re not they, you live like arrows
Of dreams that fly through skies and earth,
And in your flight, unite, my fellows,
The Love and Death.
They said in their pledge eternal
That they are slaves of the bad past,
That they were born in dust infernal,
And will return again to dust.
Your heedless brightness was aroused
By songs of lyre, mad and fine,
Eternity will be your spouse,
The world – a shrine.
All folk were utterly believing
That they must live and love with smiles,
That woman is a child of sinning,
Who’s marked by sins a hundred times.
But different, unearthly sounds
Were brought to you by running years,
And you will take to Snow Crowns
Your gentle friends.
The Vanishing Future
The lake we swam in, as children, is now
a sea of knee high thistles, in summer
evenings, that had no night, we fished for
trout, now I see empty tins of sardines
blinking in fading sunlight
I had travelled long to get here fifty years
or so, my old home was an oblong square
on ugly ground, but I did find a rusty
spade to dig my tiny space while smoking
a last cigarette or two.
I will always love my friends,
Forever or until my life ends.
I will treat them with respect,
Even when long days make me feel like a tiny speck.
I vow to hug them tight,
When nothing seems to be going right.
I propmise to be true,
Because there is nothing better i can do.
I promise to open up,
To those of them that feel beat up!
My friends, i can keep a secret,
Im the one you can tell and not feel regret.
These are the vows to my friends,
I promise to love you till the end.
We are the future
with our spikes and chains,
our baggy pants,
And unused brains
We are the future
With our belly shirts,
Hooker boots,
In mini skirts
We are the future
with our torn up jeans,
our rude t-shirts,
Wearing diamond rings
We are the future
With our high dollar clothes,
our rap music,
Pink polished toes
We are the future
And our parents hope and pray
That we'll all grow out
Of this someday
We must wait for the future to see
Which is the land, which is the sea?
We must wait for the time to decide
Who are the slaves, who are the free?
We must wait for the future to see
Is the world ours, is the world thee?
We must wait for the future to see
Is the man peaceful, is the mind free?
We must wait for the future to see
I love you? Do you love me?
You will be mine I will be thee
I can dream it, I can see
Tis said of every individual that they can shape their own destiny
Though others will tell you quite differently and with such thinking would not agree
Who knows what will happen tomorrow who knows what your future will bring
Though at present you feel a bit ordinary and none other your praises do sing.
You may try to shape your own destiny without taking circumstance into account
And you may have great plans for the future and to little that too can amount
To if destiny does not point in that direction your destiny and circumstance
Does play a huge part in your future our gift of life came about by chance.
Who knows what will happen tomorrow you may feel sad and tearful today
Tonight you may win first division tattslotto and you can celebrate in a big way
Or tomorrow for you than today little different with your same set of worries and woes
As Shaw once said 'Life's Not Meant To Be Easy' but such is life one must suppose.
Who knows what the future will bring to you despite what some say it does seem to me
That we cannot look into the future such things are beyond us to see
Those things known as circumstance and destiny a huge part in our lives do play
And these two can make us or break us for in our future they have a big say.
Kid's use your mind's
Don't fall behind......
You're the future.
Kids use your minds......
Lets take it one step at a time......
Don't break the rules......
Lets stay in school......
So that ys can,
Have a brighter future......
Kids use your minds......
Don't fall behind......
You're the future.
Knowledge is the power
And the key......
Use it to build a brighter future,
And to make a better world......
Don't give into negativity and
Stay away from drugs lets....
Stay drug free......
Kids use your minds......
Don't fall behind......
You're the future.
Let go of the past
and look to the future
come on and move on
dust yourslf off and try again
If you hav failed many times
And sat 'I give up'
remember this saying
and it will help you too:
'Let go of the past
and loot to the future.'
Go, go, my naughty girl, and kiss
Your little sister dear;
I must not have such things as this,
And noisy quarrels here.
What! little children scratch and fight,
That ought to be so mild;
Oh! Mary, it's a shocking sight
To see an angry child.
I can't imagine, for my part,
The reason for your folly;
She did not do you any hurt
By playing with your dolly.
See, see, the little tears that run
Fast from her watery eye:
Come, my sweet innocent, have done,
'Twill do no good to cry.
Go, Mary, wipe her tears away,
And make it up with kisses:
And never turn a pretty play
To such a pet as this is.
With two white roses on her breasts,
White candles at head and feet,
Dark Madonna of the grave she rests;
Lord Death has found her sweet.
Her mother pawned her wedding ring
To lay her out in white;
She'd be so proud she'd dance and sing
to see herself tonight.
The plums tasted
sweet to the unlettered desert-tribe girl-
but what manners! To chew into each! She was ungainly,
low-caste, ill mannered and dirty,
but the god took the
fruit she'd been sucking.
Why? She'd knew how to love.
She might not distinquish
splendor from filth
but she'd tasted the nectar of passion.
Might not know any Veda,
but a chariot swept her away-
now she frolics in heaven, esctatically bound
to her god.
The Lord of Fallen Fools, says Mira,
will save anyone
who can practice rapture like that-
I myself in a previous birth
was a cowherding girl
at Gokul.
THAT crazed girl improvising her music.
Her poetry, dancing upon the shore,
Her soul in division from itself
Climbing, falling She knew not where,
Hiding amid the cargo of a steamship,
Her knee-cap broken, that girl I declare
A beautiful lofty thing, or a thing
Heroically lost, heroically found.
No matter what disaster occurred
She stood in desperate music wound,
Wound, wound, and she made in her triumph
Where the bales and the baskets lay
No common intelligible sound
But sang, 'O sea-starved, hungry sea.'
No one worth possessing
Can be quite possessed;
Lay that on your heart,
My young angry dear;
This truth, this hard and precious stone,
Lay it on your hot cheek,
Let it hide your tear.
Hold it like a crystal
When you are alone
And gaze in the depths of the icy stone.
Long, look long and you will be blessed:
No one worth possessing
Can be quite possessed.
a girl named hate
stood at heavens gate
just wishing to be let in
she breathed out sin
and they shuned her
her pain a blur
she walked away
to try again another day
a girl named hate
stood at hells gate
she breathed out sin
and they let her in
they did not judge her
they loved her for sure
and there she will stay
day after day
that girl named hate
broke away from fate
she stayed were she fit in
she stayed with her sin
they did not hate her
they befriended her
things usualy turn out that way
when you tell some one to go away
The tree has entered my hands,
The sap has ascended my arms,
The tree has grown in my breast -
Downward,
The branches grow out of me, like arms.
Tree you are,
Moss you are,
You are violets with wind above them.
A child - so high - you are,
And all this is folly to the world.
A girl sang a song in the temple's chorus,
About men, tired in alien lands,
About the ships that left native shores,
And all who forgot their joy to the end.
Thus sang her clean voice, and flew up to the highness,
And sunbeams shined on her shoulder's white --
And everyone saw and heard from the darkness
The white and airy gown, singing in the light.
And all of them were sure, that joy would burst out:
The ships have arrived at their beach,
The people, in the land of the aliens tired,
Regaining their bearing, are happy and reach.
And sweet was her voice and the sun's beams around....
And only, by Caesar's Gates -- high on the vault,
The baby, versed into mysteries, mourned,
Because none of them will be ever returned.
Deserted by love
In the summertime,
I walk by the river
And speak to seagulls
And feed them my sandwich.
I used to worship the dawn,
But now, I awake alone
In a dreamless home.
I fantasize a departure
To an exotic place
Where I’ll have a new
And lovelier face.
A girl will kiss me
Who doesn’t intend
To make me cry.
One Sunday morning I hurried on my way
And I arrived at my church ready to worship and pray
Then I saw a girl with blue-green hair
She walked away, not welcome there
I could see the tears falling down her face
I realized that I didn’t want to be in such a place
I looked at myself in my dress so neat
And then at the girl in her jeans and dusty bare feet
“Don’t be sad because you were turned away
We’ll find us a church where we both can stay”
With a smile on my face, I took her hand
And we both walked away from my church so grand
Soon a small wooden building I chanced to see
A young man smiled and greeted both her and me
The doors I saw were thrown open wide
“There’s a place for you both just right inside”
So many different people all worshipping the Lord
And the truth being preached straight from His Word
A place was found for us side by side
Welcomed by His love that we often hide
Let all church doors be thrown open wide
And all who approach be welcomed inside
Whether it be a woman with a refined air
Or a barefoot girl with blue-green hair
Wow! I would love a girl,
a girl who is an individual,
who doesn’t just fall in the crowd,
who doesn’t just do what her friends do.
Someone who is real ya’ know,
that might be too much to ask,
but it just seems every girl I know,
has never done something on there own,
done anything for themselves,
or truly ever wanted be somebody else.
If I could find a girl like that,
they might just be worth getting,
but until that day, good luck girls,
try not to be so fake!
I may not weep, not weep, and he is dead.
A weary, weary weight of tears unshed
Through the long day in my sad heart I bear;
The horrid sun with all unpitying glare
Shines down into the dreary weaving-room,
Where clangs the ceaseless clatter of the loom,
And ceaselessly deft maiden-fingers weave
The fine-wrought web; and I from morn till eve
Work with the rest, and when folk speak to me
I smile hard smiles; while still continually
The silly stream of maiden speech flows on:--
And now at length they talk of him that's gone,
Lightly lamenting that he died so soon--
Ah me! ere yet his life's sun stood at noon.
Some praise his eyes, some deem his body fair,
And some mislike the colour of his hair!
Sweet life, sweet shape, sweet eyes, and sweetest hair,
What form, what hue, save Love's own, did ye wear?
I may not weep, not weep, for very shame.
He loved me not. One summer's eve he came
To these our halls, my father's honoured guest,
And seeing me, saw not. If his lips had prest
My lips, but once, in love; his eyes had sent
One love-glance into mine, I had been content,
And deemed it great joy for one little life;
Nor envied other maids the crown of wife:
The long sure years, the merry children-band--
Alas, alas, I never touched his hand!
And now my love is dead that loved not me.
Thrice-blest, thrice-crowned, of gods thrice-lovèd she--
That other, fairer maid, who tombward brings
Her gold, shorn locks and piled-up offerings
Of fragrant fruits, rich wines, and spices rare,
And cakes with honey sweet, with saffron fair;
And who, unchecked by any thought of shame,
May weep her tears, and call upon his name,
With burning bosom prest to the cold ground,
Knowing, indeed, that all her life is crown'd,
Thrice-crowned, thrice honoured, with that love of his;--
No dearer crown on earth is there, I wis.
While yet the sweet life lived, more light to bear
Was my heart's hunger; when the morn was fair,
And I with other maidens in a line
Passed singing through the city to the shrine,
Oft in the streets or crowded market-place
I caught swift glimpses of the dear-known face;
Or marked a stalwart shoulder in the throng;
Or heard stray speeches as we passed along,
In tones more dear to me than any song.
These, hoarded up with care, and kept apart,
Did serve as meat and drink my hungry heart.
And now for ever has my sweet love gone;
And weary, empty days I must drag on,
Till all the days of all my life be sped,
By no thought cheered, by no hope comforted.
For if indeed we meet among the shades,
How shall he know me from the other maids?--
Me, that had died to save his body pain!
Alas, alas, such idle thoughts are vain!
O cruel, cruel sunlight, get thee gone!
O dear, dim shades of eve, come swiftly on!
That when quick lips, keen eyes, are closed in sleep,
Through the long night till dawn I then may weep.
Listen, and when thy hand this paper presses,
O time-worn woman, think of her who blesses
What thy thin fingers touch, with her caresses.
O mother, for the weight of years that break thee!
O daughter, for slow time must yet awake thee,
And from the changes of my heart must make thee!
O fainting traveller, morn is gray in heaven.
Dost thou remember how the clouds were driven?
And are they calm about the fall of even?
Pause near the ending of thy long migration;
For this one sudden hour of desolation
Appeals to one hour of thy meditation.
Suffer, O silent one, that I remind thee
Of the great hills that stormed the sky behind thee,
Of the wild winds of power that have resigned thee.
Know that the mournful plain where thou must wander
Is but a gray and silent world, but ponder
The misty mountains of the morning yonder.
Listen:-the mountain winds with rain were fretting,
And sudden gleams the mountain-tops besetting.
I cannot let thee fade to death, forgetting.
What part of this wild heart of mine I know not
Will follow with thee where the great winds blow not,
And where the young flowers of the mountain grow not.
Yet let my letter with thy lost thoughts in it
Tell what the way was when thou didst begin it,
And win with thee the goal when thou shalt win it.
I have not writ this letter of divining
To make a glory of thy silent pining,
A triumph of thy mute and strange declining.
Only one youth, and the bright life was shrouded;
Only one morning, and the day was clouded;
And one old age with all regrets is crowded.
O hush, O hush! Thy tears my words are steeping.
O hush, hush, hush! So full, the fount of weeping?
Poor eyes, so quickly moved, so near to sleeping?
Pardon the girl; such strange desires beset her.
Poor woman, lay aside the mournful letter
That breaks thy heart; the one who wrote, forget her:
The one who now thy faded features guesses,
With filial fingers thy gray hair caresses,
With morning tears thy mournful twilight blesses.
Abandoned to sadistic streets,
A school room of sullen tears,
A little girl lost beneath
A blanket of rejection and fears
Moves slowly through
The lonely night;
The effects of drugs
Are wearing off…
And dawn has no promise
Of sunlight and pleasant songs.
Children of the future age,
Reading this indignant page,
Know that in a former time
Love, sweet love, was thought a crime.
In the age of gold,
Free from winter's cold,
Youth and maiden bright,
To the holy light,
Naked in the sunny beams delight.
Once a youthful pair,
Filled with softest care,
Met in garden bright
Where the holy light
Had just removed the curtains of the night.
Then, in rising day,
On the grass they play;
Parents were afar,
Strangers came not near,
And the maiden soon forgot her fear.
Tired with kisses sweet,
They agree to meet
When the silent sleep
Waves o'er heaven's deep,
And the weary tired wanderers weep.
To her father white
Came the maiden bright;
But his loving look,
Like the holy book
All her tender limbs with terror shook.
'Ona, pale and weak,
To thy father speak!
Oh the trembling fear!
Oh the dismal care
That shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair!'
Praise the spells and bless the charms,
I found April in my arms.
April golden, April cloudy,
Gracious, cruel, tender, rowdy;
April soft in flowered languor,
April cold with sudden anger,
Ever changing, ever true --
I love April, I love you.
"She's pretty to walk with,
And witty to talk with,
And pleasant, too, to think on."
Sir John Suckling.
She has a beauty of her own,
A beauty of a paler tone
Than English belles;
Yet southern sun and southern air
Have kissed her cheeks, until they wear
The dainty tints that oft appear
On rosy shells.
Her frank, clear eyes bespeak a mind
Old-world traditions fail to bind.
She is not shy
Or bold, but simply self-possessed;
Her independence adds a zest
Unto her speech, her piquant jest,
Her quaint reply.
O'er classic volumes she will pore
With joy; and true scholastic lore
Will often gain.
In sports she bears away the bell,
Nor, under music's siren spell,
To dance divinely, flirt as well,
Does she disdain.
A wonderful joy our eyes to bless,
In her magnificent comeliness,
Is an English girl of eleven stone two,
And five foot ten in her dancing shoe!
She follows the hounds, and on she pounds -
The "field" tails off and the muffs diminish -
Over the hedges and brooks she bounds -
Straight as a crow, from find to finish.
At cricket, her kin will lose or win -
She and her maids, on grass and clover,
Eleven maids out - eleven maids in -
(And perhaps an occasional "maiden over").
Go search the world and search the sea,
Then come you home and sing with me
There's no such gold and no such pearl
As a bright and beautiful English girl!
With a ten-mile spin she stretches her limbs,
She golfs, she punts, she rows, she swims -
She plays, she sings, she dances, too,
From ten or eleven till all is blue!
At ball or drum, till small hours come
(Chaperon's fan conceals her yawning),
She'll waltz away like a teetotum,
And never go home till daylight's dawning.
Lawn tennis may share her favours fair -
Her eyes a-dance and her cheeks a-glowing -
Down comes her hair, but what does she care?
It's all her own and it's worth the showing!
Go search the world and search the sea,
Then come you home and sing with me
There's no such gold and no such pearl
As a bright and beautiful English girl!
Her soul is sweet as the ocean air,
For prudery knows no haven there;
To find mock-modesty, please apply
To the conscious blush and the downcast eye.
Rich in the things contentment brings,
In every pure enjoyment wealthy,
Blithe as a beautiful bird she sings,
For body and mind are hale and healthy.
Her eyes they thrill with right goodwill -
Her heart is light as a floating feather -
As pure and bright as the mountain rill
That leaps and laughs in the Highland heather!
Go search the world and search the sea,
Then come you home and sing with me
There's no such gold and no such pearl
As a bright and beautiful English girl!
Dark eyes accented by black hair,
she is an Asian girl
that happens to be
one of the most beautiful females
that has ever been seen by these eyes
It took two steps for my heart to explode.
She was weeping when we met
Outside a party store
Where the lonely purchase their wine;
Her boyfriend had left her behind
All sad and lost after a fight,
Most likely, about inconsequential things.
I picked her up, half out of human kindness,
Half to be beside a female body
Despite how red and unhappy her face.
She was a beautiful girl in a simple way,
She wore a plain flowery dress
With some charming appeal I can’t explain.
She tried to express in broken sentences
Why she and her boyfriend were upset;
I mostly heard tears and my boyfriend this,
My boyfriend that,
I tried to act like it was as completely earth shattering
As she thought it was.
She gave me directions to where she lived,
I drove diligently toward that destination
Without any attempts to prolong the drive
While I planned out my own strategy of a pass.
When I finally arrived at her place,
Her face was still red but the tears had dried.
She said, “Thanks, mister, you’re a nice guy.”
She got a little closer to me and touched my hand.
I thought she might kiss me, I thought I might kiss her,
But she scooted on out and made for her house.
I wasn’t expecting any action that night,
I can’t claim disappointment.
But I wish I knew if I should pray
For her and her boyfriend to work things out.
I quietly walk immense, lonely streets
And think of a sullen girl
Whose eyes were always
Watery and sad,
Even in the absence of tears.
I recall once having held her hand
In the sunlight amid yellow flowers
And wanting to whisper something to her
That would make her smile
And forget her tragic soul
For a fleeting moment.
Some girls dress in black
And you can’t reach them with romance,
But you fall in love with them nonetheless;
The poetry of their melancholy eyes
Slips into your psyche
Like a recurring childhood dream.
She eventually gets lost somewhere
And drifts away, she finds it impossible to linger
With one man and be understood.
You think, perhaps this is best,
She’s not for you,
But your life becomes morose,
Her disconsolate mood has infected you
And you begin to view the world
Through the same saturnine eyes.
In your solitude, you question why
The two of you could not remain
Unhappy together?
Some say I may just be
Stretching my wings.
“Oh don’t worry, she’s just
Stretching her wings.
Yes, she’ll settle down soon.”
No—no, you see,
This is an explosion inside
One of the best of it’s kind.
No—no, you see,
I’m learning to fly.
Dark clouds had just burst into rain,
I was alone, travelling in the train.
It was just beginning to gain speed,
I had with me Sunday newspaper to read.
The girl sitting opposite to me, started
To complain, as her seat faced backward.
I offered to exchange seats for her
In return I had to accept her offer.
Of buying coffee for both of us,
Friendship with this girl began thus.
I thought, she must be an American,
From her accent, but she denied to be one.
Her father was Scottish and mother Hungarian
But she considered herself as a proud Canadian.
We talked our way through the long journey
On drinks, it was my turn to spend money.
I need a combat-ready girl
Who knows that the world
Is callous and cold,
Waiting to cut you down
Before giving you a chance
Or letting you dance.
She needs to be
A solitude queen,
Close friends
With loneliness
But with inner perseverance.
I want to defend someone
And be defended
From the raging stupidity
And insensitivity
Of heartless society!
True love
Is the unity
Of emotional soldiers,
Fighting for kisses,
Fighting for closeness,
Fighting for trust,
Fighting against all the odds
While sharing embraces
In the march
Toward eternity.
I need this unbreakable bond
Because lonely tears
Have the power
Of decimating bombs,
And one weary soldier
Will not survive
Those bombs alone.
On this rolling planet ever have you seen
A home so like a palace waiting for its queen? --
A dwelling place so fair,
So fill'd with treasures rare,
As the little white cottage on Evergreen Square?
Come, pretty school girl! lay your books aside;
Yes graduate tomorrow -- tomorrow be my bride;
My fortune share,
And reign queen there,
In the little white cottage on Evergreen Square.
Red as are the roses climbing on its wall,
Your cheeks of richer crimson shall out-bloom them all.
Your eyes (beyond compare)
A brighter gleam shall wear,
In the little white cottage on Everygreen Square.
Flow'rs of rarest fragrance all the year shall bloom,
And singing birds make music in your chosen room.
Come, breathe its balmy air!
Come, charm away my care,
In the little white cottage on Everygreen Square.
your screaming while she sits there.
I bet you dont know that shes soaking it all in.
Shes switching parents every week or so..
to young ot know exactly whats going on.
The loud sirens repeating over and over
blue red& white lights circle around the room.
shes taken to her mom and never saw her dad
ever again.
He will never leave her heard nor mind.
She moved far away from him and started a new life.
The new dad wasnt the same as the last
and didnt stay long either.
She stresses out as so many things are happening,
in her life right now.
shes growing up and scared of it.
feels like somtimes she wants to runaway
but doesnt knwo where to runaway too.
confused and lost little girl.
Thank you--she is my friend
It's a rare positive
She cares like a sister would
I'm also there for her
Like a big brother should
She makes me laugh
At times when I want to be alone
She feels my pain
Because we come from the same home
It's nice to know someone like this
She's moving away soon
Her cookie girl ways, I will miss
We both lost friends along the way
We're both losers, as people would say
Someone once told me
Things happen for a reason
She deserves the best
I'm just a friend, but not like the rest
Theres a bond we could see
Only cookie girl really understands me.
As the young woman remembers her childhood
She begins to cry,
Remembering how much she loved her father.
Just thinking how he'd left her so soon
Breaks her heart in two.
She remembered when she was a little child:
A curly haired little girl
Attached to her daddy's leg.
The way she'd hide behind her daddy
When people spoke to her.
She remembered how he'd loved her
And wondered if he knew she loved him too.
She remembered how she'd cried that night
At the hospital
When the thought of never getting to see her daddy again
Had crossed her mind.
She remembered how everything she'd done
Was so sweet to him.
She remembered the times she'd never let go
Of the belt loops of his pants.
She remembered how he loved her so
And how she'd never be able to stay angry with him.
But the girl will never forget
That her daddy will be in her heart always
And she will always be
Daddy's little girl.
Always in my mind
I can see my daddy's face
As he took me in his arms
Enveloped me with his embrace
Daddy always held my hand
With that great big hand of his
Said, I was his little princess
Go ahead a make a wish
Many times I would fall down
And skin my knees
He would always come running
Oh, baby, let me see!
He told me when I grew up
I would be somebodies queen
But for now his little girl
The most prettiest he's ever seen
I would set in my daddy's lap
I felt I was on a thrown
Not knowing oh, to soon
I would be almost grown
My daddy's my hero
Someone I want to be
When I grow up daddy
I'll make you proud of me
I guess I'll always be
That little girl that needs her dad
I'll treasure every moment
Every memory that we have
Time can be so unkind
Live today but a memory tomorrow
I just want to stay daddy's little girl
If time we could only borrow
Memories flood my mind
Just like I was ten
Daddy can you play a game with me
He gently takes my chin
You'll always be my little girl
If only in our minds
Daddy, daddy you can't catch me
Your it,  It's your turn to hide
Daddy's are a gift from God
Made especially for little girls
I love you so much daddy
You are my great big world
One day,
Dogs will laugh
In the streets,
And we’ll kiss wildly
Like lunatics
Escaping the asylum.
You’re a dark girl
So I’m painting
My roses black,
And I’ll murder the sun
If he ever turns his back.
I would rather
Enter the palace of your pain
Than continue to exist
In the prison cell of my loneliness.
Her hero's gone away,
Will he come back another day?
She could not say.
She let her soul mate run away,
And something inside of her died.
'Now I don't want to come out and play',
The little girl cried.
Left all alone in such a big world,
He is not there to protect her,
No longer will he make her feel safe
In his warm embrace.
He used to love her but things have changed,
The girl is alone.
She let her soul mate escape,
Her insides hollow, the girl is left opaque.
You will come one day in a waver of love,
Tender as dew, impetuous as rain,
The tan of the sun will be on your skin,
The purr of the breeze in your murmuring speech,
You will pose with a hill-flower grace.
You will come, with your slim, expressive arms,
A poise of the head no sculptor has caught
And nuances spoken with shoulder and neck,
Your face in a pass-and-repass of moods
As many as skies in delicate change
Of cloud and blue and flimmering sun.
Yet,
You may not come, O girl of a dream,
We may but pass as the world goes by
And take from a look of eyes into eyes,
A film of hope and a memoried day.
Flavius, unless your delights
were tasteless and inelegant,
you’d want to tell, and couldn’t be silent.
Surely you’re in love with some feverish
little whore: you’re ashamed to confess it.
Now, pointlessly silent, you don’t seem to be
idle of nights, it’s proclaimed by your bed
garlanded, fragrant with Syrian perfume,
squashed cushions and pillows, here and there,
and the trembling frame shaken,
quivering and wandering about.
But being silent does nothing for you.
Why? Spread thighs blab it’s not so,
if not quite what foolishness you commit.
How and whatever you’ve got, good or bad,
tell us. I want to name you and your loves
to the heavens in charming verse.
My sweet little girl should be cheerful and mild
She must not be fretful and cry!
Oh! why is this passion? remember, my child,
GOD sees you, who lives in the sky.
That dear little face, that I like so to kiss,
How alter'd and sad it appears!
Do you think I can love you so naughty as this,
Or kiss you, all wetted with tears?
Remember, though GOD is in Heaven, my love,
He sees you within and without,
And always looks down, from His glory above,
To notice what you are about.
If I am not with you, or if it be dark,
And nobody is in the way,
His eye is as able your doings to mark,
In the night as it is in the day.
Then dry up your tears and look smiling again,
And never do things that are wrong;
For I'm sure you must feel it a terrible pain,
To be naughty and crying so long.
We'll pray, then, that GOD may your passion forgive,
And teach you from evil to fly;
And then you'll be happy as long as you live,
And happy whenever you die.
The devil twinkling of an eye,
The shape, the look of you,
Not being privy to your scent,
Sound of your words resound, resonating,
Ripples the head; sets on thinking,
Unthought things,
Base things, but natural, absolute,
Such as,
I want to sleep inside you.
It’s holiday time on the hollyhock hills,
And I wish you would come with me laddie-love, now,
The butterfly-bells, from the Folly-fool rills,
Will ring if you listen, and drop on your brow.
So, dear come along,
I’ve a kiss and a song,
And I know where the fairies are forging a gong
To ring up the elves to a festival fair
Of snippets of sunshine and apples of air.
O laddie, my laddie, quick, run out of school,
And away with a shout and a shake of the head;
I’ll pick you a pearl from the pigeon-pink pool
Where cuddles and kisses are going to bed,
Away, come away To the lands of the fay,
For the afternoon tinkles your lassie-love’s lay.
Play truant with Time, and while Age is asleep
I’ll give you the heart of my girlhood to keep.
They intend to send a wire
To the moon;
And they'll set the Thames on fire
Very soon;
Then they learn to make silk purses
With their rigs
From the ears of LADY CIRCE'S
Piggy-wigs.
And weasels at their slumbers
They'll trepan;
To get sunbeams from cuCUMbers
They've a plan.
They've a firmly rooted notion
They can cross the Polar Ocean,
And they'll find Perpetual Motion
If they can!
These are the phenomena
That every pretty domina
Hopes that we shall see
At this Universitee!
As for fashion, they forswear it,
So they say,
And the circle - they will square it
Some fine day;
Then the little pigs they're teaching
For to fly;
And the niggers they'll be bleaching
By-and-by!
Each newly joined aspirant
To the clan
Must repudiate the tyrant
Known as Man;
They mock at him and flout him,
For they do not care about him,
And they're "going to do without him"
If they can!
These are the phenomena
That every pretty domina
Hopes that we shall see
At this Universitee!
Sunday, I am eating a
grapefruit, church is over at the Russian
Orthadox to the
west.
she is dark
of Eastern descent,
large brown eyes look up from the Bible
then down. a small red and black
Bible, and as she reads
her legs keep moving, moving,
she is doing a slow rythmic dance
reading the Bible. . .
long gold earrings;
2 gold bracelets on each arm,
and it's a mini-suit, I suppose,
the cloth hugs her body,
the lightest of tans is that cloth,
she twists this way and that,
long yellow legs warm in the sun. . .
there is no escaping her being
there is no desire to. . .
my radio is playing symphonic music
that she cannot hear
but her movements coincide exactly
to the rythms of the
symphony. . .
she is dark, she is dark
she is reading about God.
I am God.
Alone in that desolate cemetery
Not a single soul around
Near the grave with a marble angel
Laden with a bunch of roses
Whose tombstone proclaimed
“He was a loving son and brother,
Now, up in Heaven to spread joy”
In the golden letters on white marble
She sat, head bend in silence
A single tear in her eyes
Glistening in the summer sun
Loosing count of passing time
Seconds turning to minutes and hours
Incognizant of the world around
What did she tell him wordlessly?
May be, how much she loved him
May be, how much she miss him
Or may be she questioned
Why he left her all alone?
Why can’t he come back?
Will this world ever want to know
What he was in this world
Other than being a son or brother
What did he meant to her
May be she asked God too
A few of her unanswered questions
Will the world see his wish
To share his world with her
To walk down that church aisle
With her beside him
Hand in hand n’ pride in eyes
To be her knight in shining armour
May be in another world
May be in another life! !
That's my window. This minute
So gently did I alight
From sleep--was still floating in it.
Where has my life its limit
And where begins the night?
I could fancy all things around me
Were nothing but I as yet;
Like a crystal's depth, profoundly
Mute, translucent, unlit.
I have space to spare inside me
For the stars, too: so full of room
Feels my heart; so lightly
Would it let go of him, whom
For all I know I have started
To love, it may be to hold.
Strange, as if never charted,
Stares my fortune untold.
Why is it I am bedded
Beneath this infinitude,
Fragrant like a meadow,
Hither and thither moved,
Calling out, yet fearing
Someone might hear the cry,
Destined to disappearing
Within another I.
Girl, why don't you dry those tears
You have so much to live for
Things will not always be like this
There is so much more in store
I know that your boyfriend has did you wrong
He has torn your poor heart in two
Sometimes you feel so unsure of yourself
And you just don't know what to do
Just pick your heart up from off the floor
And start again
Many other guys want to get that chance to meet you
There are other fish in the ocean
It really hurts to suffer
Nothing but grief and sorrow
Keep your head up and smile
For there will always be tomorrow
Girl, when I look at your eyes
I see all of your genuine charms
I want to give you my everything
Including the moon and the stars
You're the one that I love
You're always in my heart
I think of you in every way
Whether you are near or far
Girl, you know how much I love you
You are my everything
Anything in this world, I would do for you
Love and tenderness is what I'll always bring
I could not love no one else
That's how special you are to me
They say that love is blind
But now we're able to see
Nothing could ever come between us
We have a special bond
We can stand on our own two feet
Our love for each other will continue to live on
Go girl you're in the business world now;
you have a career, children, and a husband. You've come a long way girl—from woman suffrage.
You can be head of house girl—and
your man may be house-husband if you choose. Go Girl, Go Girl, Go Girl . . .  You may be head of state hold any job of
authority as well as bear children while employed. Go girl you're in the business world now;
you have a career, children, and a husband.
You've come a long way girl— from woman suffrage. You can be head of house girl—and
your man may be house husband, if you choose. Go Girl, Go Girl, Go Girl . . .
Now, money was scarce and work was slack
And love to his heart Crept in,
And he rode away on the Northern track
To war with the world and win;
And he vowed by the locket upon his breast
And its treasure, one red gold curl,
To work with with a will in the fartherest West
For the sake of his Gippsland girl.
The hot wind blows on the dusty plain
And the red sun burns above,
But he sees her face at his side again,
And he strikes each blow for love.
He toils by the light of one far-off star
For the winning of one white pearl,
And the swinging pick and the driving bar
Strike home for the Gippsland girl.
With an aching wrist and a back that's bent,
With salt sweat blinding eyes,
'Tis little he'd reek if his life were spent
In the winning so grand a prize.
His shear blades flash and over his hand
The folds of the white fleece curl,
And all day long he sticks to his stand
For the love of his Gippsland girl.
When the shearing's done and the shed's cut out
On Barwon and Narran and Bree;
When the shearer mates with the rouseabout
And the Union man with the free;
When the doors of the shanty, open wide,
An uproarious welcome hurl,
He passes by on the other side
For the sake of his gippsland girl.
When summer lay brown on the Western Land
He rode once more to the South,
Athirst for the touch of a lily hand
And the kiss of a rosebud mouth;
And he sang the songs that shorten the way,
And he envied not king or earl,
And he spared not the spur in his dappled grey
For the sake of his Gippsland girl.
At the garden gate when the shadows fell
His hopes in the dusk lay dead;
'Nelli? Oh! Surely you heard that Nell
Is married a month' they said.
He spoke no word; with a dull, dumb pain
At his heart, and his brain awhirl
He turned his grey to the North again
For the sake of his Gippsland girl.
And he rung the board in a Paroo shed
By the sweat of his aching brow,
But he blued his cheque, for he grimly said,
'There is nothing to live for now.'
And out and away where the big floods start
And the Darling dust-showers swirl,
There's a drunken shearer who broke his heart
Over a Gippsland girl!
William H Ogilvie
Varus drags me into his affairs
out of the Forum, where I’m seen idling:
to a little whore I immediately saw,
not very inelegant, not unattractive,
who, when we came there, met us
with varied chatter, including, how might
Bithynia stand now, what’s it like, and where
might the benefit have been to me in cash.
I told her what’s true, nothing at all,
while neither the praetors nor their aides,
return any the richer, especially since
our Praetor, Memmius, the bugger,
cared not a jot for his followers.
‘But surely,’ they said, you could have bought
slaves they say are made for the litter there.’
I, so the girl might take me to be wealthy,
said ‘no, for me things weren’t so bad,
that coming across one bad province,
I couldn’t buy eight good men.’
But I’d no one, neither here nor there,
who might even raise to his shoulder
the shattered foot of an old couch.
At this she, like the shameless thing she was, said
‘I beg you, my dear Catullus, for the loan of them,
just for a while: I’d like to be carried
to Serap’s temple.’ ‘Wait’ I said to the girl,
‘what I just said was mine, isn’t actually in
my possession: my friend Cinna, that’s Gaius,
purchased the thing for himself.
Whether they’re his or mine, what difference to me?
I use them just as well as if I’d bought them myself.
But you are quite tasteless, and annoying,
you with whom no inexactness is allowed.’
DEDICATED TO LUCY BATES
(Being a reminiscence of certain private theatricals.)
Oh, cabaret dancer,
I
know a dancer,
Whose eyes have not looked on the feasts that are vain.
I
know a dancer,
I
know a dancer,
Whose soul has no bond with the beasts of the plain:
Judith the dancer, Judith the dancer,
With foot like the snow, and with step like the rain.
Oh, thrice-painted dancer, vaudeville dancer,
Sad in your spangles, with soul all astrain,
I
know a dancer,
I
know a dancer,
Whose laughter and weeping are spiritual gain,
A pure-hearted, high-hearted maiden evangel,
With strength the dark cynical earth to disdain.
Flowers of bright Broadway, you of the chorus,
Who sing in the hope of forgetting your pain:
I turn to a sister of Sainted Cecilia,
A white bird escaping the earth's tangled skein:—
The music of God is her innermost brooding,
The whispering angels her footsteps sustain.
Oh, proud Russian dancer: praise for your dancing.
No clean human passion my rhyme would arraign.
You dance for Apollo with noble devotion,
A high cleansing revel to make the heart sane.
But Judith the dancer prays to a spirit
More white than Apollo and all of his train.
I know a dancer who finds the true Godhead,
Who bends o'er a brazier in Heaven's clear plain.
I know a dancer, I know a dancer,
Who lifts us toward peace, from this earth that is vain:
Judith the dancer, Judith the dancer,
With foot like the snow, and with step like the rain.
Ah, she was music in herself,
A symphony of joyousness.
She sang, she sang from finger tips,
From every tremble of her dress.
I saw sweet haunting harmony,
An ecstasy, an ecstasy,
In that strange curling of her lips,
That happy curling of her lips.
And quivering with melody
Those eyes I saw, that tossing head.
And so I saw what music was,
Tho' still accursed with ears of lead.
576
I prayed, at first, a little Girl,
Because they told me to—
But stopped, when qualified to guess
How prayer would feel—to me—
If I believed God looked around,
Each time my Childish eye
Fixed full, and steady, on his own
In Childish honesty—
And told him what I'd like, today,
And parts of his far plan
That baffled me—
The mingled side
Of his Divinity—
And often since, in Danger,
I count the force 'twould be
To have a God so strong as that
To hold my life for me
Till I could take the Balance
That tips so frequent, now,
It takes me all the while to poise—
And then—it doesn't stay—
I see the girl of innocence
that you at one time were.
You have to take your life back.
You owe that much to her.
She needs you to unclutter
the hurt you've filed away.
The memories of tragedy
and the things you never say.
If your heart is filled with sadness
where's the room for happiness?
That girl deserves attention
and she'll stand for nothing less!
Your soul is not a graveyard
for you to bury all your pain.
You can't hold in the feelings
that are driving you insane.
Purge your hate and anger.
Pour your darkness out.
Let your pain be recognized.
Hollar, scream, and shout!
No matter what it takes
just let her feel she's loved.
Don't allow her to be beaten,
abused....pushed and shoved.
That girl I know is hurting.
That girl deserves the best.
Make ''you'' a priority
and you will pass His test.
**For my sister Danielle.  I still see that innocent girl from our childhood.  I hope you see her too.  Love, Mary
I was that girl...in the shadows
of an ever-dying love.
I was that girl...searching for God
just begging for help from above.
I was that girl...in the darkness
trying to find my way.
I was that girl...raised in violence
and then selfishly thrown away.
I was that girl...full of anger
for the past and all of the pain.
I was that girl....but now I'm not
and I'll never be her again.
I'm just a girl, a hopeless case.
Living in the world a familier place.
I'm just a girl, with tears in her eyes.
Swimming in a pool of cold hearted lies.
I'm just a girl, always second best.
With sleepless nights and no time to rest
I'm just a girl, with scars all around.
Always screaming with out a sound
I'm juts a girl, giving up on life.
Running from my problems headed for the knife
I'm just a girl, who's messed up in the head.
With hope and wishes and prayers to be dead
I'm just a girl, with nothing to live for.
Who shut out the world and fell to the floor.
I'm just a girl, living in fear
In the dark lonely place, flooded with tears.
I'm just a girl, behind closed doors,
soon to be gone and live no more.
You subjected her to a night of hell
Hey! Did you know?
She was just a little girl
You took her to a run down motel
Hey! Did you know?
She was just a little girl
Now you hold her crying soul to sell
Hey! Did you know?
She was just a little girl
When you forced her out of her shell
Hey! Did you know?
She was just a little girl
Couldn’t you tell by her face?
She had the smile of an angel
A virgin waiting for wedding bells
Hey! Did you know?
You are not well?
The only place you belong is a cell
With horrifying smells!
Hey! Did you know?
She is no more a little girl, they yell
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Little girl don't you cry, everything will be ok
Little girl confide in me, I'll make your fears go away
Little girl don't lose faith, one day you will be free
Little girl make a wish, i swear I'll make you happy
Little girl i am your friend, I'll always be here for you
Little girl take my hand, be happy don't be blue
Little girl you're not alone, that will always be true
Little girl so sweet and coy, I'll always look after you
Little girl i know it's hard, but please don't you give in
Little girl please be strong, I will help ease your pain
In a world of barbies, implants and a size 26 waist
heartache's no more prevalent than in her with a beautiful face.
No more wanted for her looks than her heart
her persona fades as soon as puberty starts.
She screams celebrity in a small town manner
In a world that passes judgement by how much you achieve
she must use her 'talents' as the world perceives.
As years go by her beauty's but a nuisance
to the person inside made up of more substance.
She SCREAMS celebrity in a small town manner
There's no plastic surgery to alter your soul
no place for outward beauty in the world of good will.
To wed true love's but a leap of trust
so she squanders her beauty as a matter of must.
For small town love in true Hollywood fashion.
I've seen you many times in many places--
Theater, bus, train, or on the street;
Smiling in spring rain, in winter sleet,
Eyes of any hue in myriad faces;
Midnight black, all shades of brown your hair,
Long, short, bronze or honey-fair.
Instantly have I loved, have never spoken;
Slowly a truck passed, a light changed,
A door closed--all seemingly pre-arranged--
Then you were gone forever, the spell was broken.
Ubiquitios only one, we've met before
A hundred times, and we'll meet again
As many more; in hills or forest glen,
On crowded street or lonely, peaceful shore;
Somewhere, someday--but how will we ever know
True love, how wil we ever know?
Only a dancing girl,
With an unromantic style,
With borrowed colour and curl,
With fixed mechanical smile,
With many a hackneyed wile,
With ungrammatical lips,
And corns that mar her trips.
Hung from the "flies" in air,
She acts a palpable lie,
She's as little a fairy there
As unpoetical I!
I hear you asking, Why -
Why in the world I sing
This tawdry, tinselled thing?
No airy fairy she,
As she hangs in arsenic green
From a highly impossible tree
In a highly impossible scene
(Herself not over-clean).
For fays don't suffer, I'm told,
From bunions, coughs, or cold.
And stately dames that bring
Their daughters there to see,
Pronounce the "dancing thing"
No better than she should be,
With her skirt at her shameful knee,
And her painted, tainted phiz:
Ah, matron, which of us is?
(And, in sooth, it oft occurs
That while these matrons sigh,
Their dresses are lower than hers,
And sometimes half as high;
And their hair is hair they buy,
And they use their glasses, too,
In a way she'd blush to do.)
But change her gold and green
For a coarse merino gown,
And see her upon the scene
Of her home, when coaxing down
Her drunken father's frown,
In his squalid cheerless den:
She's a fairy truly, then!
1     Our hired girl, she's 'Lizabuth Ann;
2       An' she can cook best things to eat!
3     She ist puts dough in our pie-pan,
4       An' pours in somepin' 'at's good an' sweet;
5     An' nen she salts it all on top
6     With cinnamon; an' nen she'll stop
7       An' stoop an' slide it, ist as slow,
8     In th' old cook-stove, so's 'twon't slop
9       An' git all spilled; nen bakes it, so
10     It's custard-pie, first thing you know!
11         An' nen she'll say,
12         "Clear out o' my way!
13     They's time fer work, an' time fer play!
14       Take yer dough, an' run, child, run!
15       Er I cain't git no cookin' done!"
16   When our hired girl 'tends like she's mad,
17     An' says folks got to walk the chalk
18   When she's around, er wisht they had!
19     I play out on our porch an' talk
20   To Th' Raggedy Man 'at mows our lawn;
21   An' he says, "Whew!" an' nen leans on
22     His old crook-scythe, and blinks his eyes,
23   An' sniffs all 'round an' says, "I swawn!
24     Ef my old nose don't tell me lies,
25     It 'pears like I smell custard-pies!"
26         An' nen he'll say,
27         "Clear out o' my way!
28     They's time fer work, an' time fer play!
29       Take yer dough, an' run, child, run!
30       Er she cain't git no cookin' done!"
31   Wunst our hired girl, when she
32     Got the supper, an' we all et,
33   An' it wuz night, an' Ma an' me
34     An' Pa went wher' the "Social" met, --
35   An' nen when we come home, an' see
36   A light in the kitchen door, an' we
37     Heerd a maccordeun, Pa says, "Lan'-
38   O'-Gracious! who can her beau be?"
39     An' I marched in, an' 'Lizabuth Ann
40     Wuz parchin' corn fer The Raggedy Man!
41         Better say,
42         "Clear out o' the way!
43     They's time fer work, an' time fer play!
44       Take the hint, an' run, child, run!
45       Er we cain't git no courtin' done!"
The poor young girl
with beach blonde hair
and pale white skin
stands in the middle of the street,
in the middle of a war.
Her face shows pain,
her face shows she wants help.
She goes to the hardware store
and steals a can of purple paint.
She doesn't know better,
so it doesn't matter.
The pale girl opens the can of purple paint
and uses her hands to write a message on the
big brick building wall.
She uses what knowledge she has of spelling,
and traces her purple paint covered fingers
over the wall.
First she draws a P
than an E
than she dips her hand back in the paint.
When she is done with the word,
the purple paint has run down the wall,
but you could still see the word very clearly.
It spelled PEACE.
The young girl takes her hand and presses it to the wall
leaving a very small purple handprint.
Then she runs.
A soldier calls after her,
'Peace little girl, Peace! '
YOU just maturing youth! You male or female!
Remember the organic compact of These States,
Remember the pledge of the Old Thirteen thenceforward to the rights,
life, liberty, equality of man,
Remember what was promulged by the founders, ratified by The States,
signed in black and white by the Commissioners, and read by
Washington at the head of the army,
Remember the purposes of the founders,--Remember Washington;
Remember the copious humanity streaming from every direction toward
America;
Remember the hospitality that belongs to nations and men; (Cursed be
nation, woman, man, without hospitality!)
Remember, government is to subserve individuals,
Not any, not the President, is to have one jot more than you or me,
Not any habitan of America is to have one jot less than you or me. 10
Anticipate when the thirty or fifty millions, are to become the
hundred, or two hundred millions, of equal freemen and
freewomen, amicably joined.
Recall ages--One age is but a part--ages are but a part;
The eternal equilibrium of things is great, and the eternal overthrow
of things is great,
And there is another paradox.
Recall the angers, bickerings, delusions, superstitions, of the idea
of caste,
Recall the bloody cruelties and crimes.
Anticipate the best women;
I say an unnumbered new race of hardy and well-defined women are to
spread through all These States,
I say a girl fit for These States must be free, capable, dauntless,
just the same as a boy.
Anticipate your own life--retract with merciless power,
Shirk nothing--retract in time--Do you see those errors, diseases,
weaknesses, lies, thefts?
Do you see that lost character?--Do you see decay, consumption, rum-
drinking, dropsy, fever, mortal cancer or inflammation?      20
Do you see death, and the approach of death?
I would liken you
To a night without stars
Were it not for your eyes.
I would liken you
To a sleep without dreams
Were it not for your songs.
Her lips' remark was: "Oh, you kid!"
Her soul spoke thus (I know it did):
"O king of realms of endless joy,
My own, my golden grocer's boy,
I am a princess forced to dwell
Within a lonely kitchen cell,
While you go dashing through the land
With loveliness on every hand.
Your whistle strikes my eager ears
Like music of the choiring spheres.
The mighty earth grows faint and reels
Beneath your thundering wagon wheels.
How keenly, perilously sweet
To cling upon that swaying seat!
How happy she who by your side
May share the splendors of that ride!
Ah, if you will not take my hand
And bear me off across the land,
Then, traveller from Arcady,
Remain awhile and comfort me.
What other maiden can you find
So young and delicate and kind?"
Her lips' remark was: "Oh, you kid!"
Her soul spoke thus (I know it did).
Cabbage tree, cabbage tree, what is the matter?
Why are you shaking so?  Why do you chatter?
Because it is just a white baby you see,
And it's the black ones you like, cabbage tree?
Cabbage tree, cabbage tree, you're a strange fellow
With your green hair and your legs browny-yellow.
Wouldn't you like to have curls, dear, like me?
What!  No one to make them?  O poor cabbage tree!
Never mind, cabbage tree, when I am taller,
And if you grow, please, a little bit smaller,
I shall be able by that time, bay be,
To make you the loveliest curls, cabbage tree.
Sparrow, the special delight of my girl,
whom often she teases and holds on her lap
and pokes with the tip of her finger, provoking
counterattacks with your mordant beak,
whenever my luminous love desires
something or other, innocuous fun,
a bit of escape, I suppose, from her pain,
a moment of peace from her turbulent passion,
I wish I could play like she does with you
and lighten the cares of my sorrowful soul.
It thrills me as much as the nimble girl
in the story was thrilled by the gilded apple
that finally uncinched her virginal gown.
My eyes first caught her across the street
She looked like someone I'd fancy to meet
She was wearing a long violet dress
But I was rugged and my hair was a mess
You were wondering who was this cat
Sitting on a rotten bench in a dirty cowboy hat
On his guitar he was trying to play some John Denver song
You laughed because half of his chords were wrong
She walked up and asked if I wanted a cuppa joe
I boyishly smiled and said 'I reckon so'
I strolled down the dirt road with this girl in a pretty gown
She said there wasn't a single paved street in town
At the restaurant he informed you that he was from Amarillo
Where the cops are awful and the democrats are yellow
You smiled and said 'tha pigs are worse here, I'll bet ya'
You nonetheless added 'welcome to Georgia'
I grinned as I stuck a Marlboro in my mouth
And told her it was my sixth trip down south
I said I enjoyed rural towns in this part of the States
Where life is simple with no technological updates
You somberly said you no longer find this place desirous
For the city of Atlanta is spreading like a virus
You said your days are full of concern and strife
For Atlanta's threatening your way of life
After coffee we took a long walk in the park
It was peaceful, there were no dogs there to bark
I told her I though she was very pretty
And apologized that I was so dirty
You bashfully accepted the compliments from this young man
And said 'well ah tra to make masef as beautiful as ah can'
Then he kissed you, which was a bit of a surprise
But you didn't mind as you closed your eyes
I felt kinda guilty for kissing her quickly without reason
So I told her she was obviously very smart and a good person
I said she was much nicer than city slicking bitches
Who are materialistic, dishonest and untrustworthy snitches
You looked into his weather hardened yet pretty face
And offered to take you both back to your place
He lowered his head and shyly agreed
You were glad you didn't have to plead
I awoke before her
With my mind a blur
But I hurriedly left a note saying I must catch a Greyhound
For it was San Francisco where I was bound
You woke up with an empty stare
For he was not there
You probably thought to him it was just a game
And that all men are the same
You’re the sweetest girl I ever met
Beautiful eyes like a rising sunset
A face as stunning as an angels glow
Her elegant heart as pure as her soul
A smile that could cheer up a sad man
Gentle hands there to help you stand
Angelic feathers fall whenever she goes
She’s a holy angel that has a cute nose
Long hair shining like the moon light
Her voice displays rhythm and might
A body that has committed no crimes
Reminisces of the sad and happy times
Never lets the world around get her down
She never lets her a smile turn into a frown
She might not be the greatest girl out there yet
But she still remains the sweetest girl I ever met
That pretty girl--
munching and rustling
the wrapped-up rice cake.
Translated by Robert Hass
Kind Christians, pray list to me,
And I'll relate a sad story,
Concerning a little blind girl, only nine years of age,
Who lived with her father in a lonely cottage.
Poor girl, she had never seen the blessed light of day,
Nor the beautiful fields of corn and hay,
Nor the sparrows, that lifted their heads at early morn
To bright Sol that does the hills adorn.
And near the cottage door there was an elm tree;
But that stunted elm tree she never did see,
Yet her little heart sometimes felt gay
As she listened to the thrushes that warbled the live-long day.
And she would talk to the wren when alone,
And to the wren she would her loneliness bemoan,
And say, "Dear little wren, come again to-morrow;
Now be sure and come, your singing will chase away my sorrow."
She was motherless, but she had a drunken father,
Who in his savage moods drank all he could gather,
And would often cruelly beat her until she would cry,
"Dear father, if you beat me I will surely die."
She spent the days in getting ready her father's food,
Which was truly for her drunken father's good;
But one night he came home, reeling drunk,
And the poor child's heart with fear sunk;
And he cried, "You were at the door when I came up the lane;
Take that, you good-for-nothing slut; you're to blame
For not having my supper ready; you will find
That's no excuse, Sarah, because you are blind."
And with a stick he struck her as he spoke
Across the shoulders, until the stick almost broke;
Crying aloud, "I'll teach you better, you little sneak;"
And with the beating, Sarah's heart was like to break.
Poor little Sarah had never seen the snow;
She knew it was beautiful white, some children told her so;
And in December, when the snow began to fall,
She would go to the door and make a snowball.
One day she'd been very cheerless and alone,
Poor child, and so cold, almost chilled to the bone;
For her father had spent his wages in drink,
And for want of fire she was almost at death's brink.
Her face was pinched with hunger but she never complained,
And her little feet with cold were chilblained,
And her father that day had not come home for dinner,
And the dull grey sky was all of a shimmer.
So poor Sarah was very sick when her father came home;
So bad, little dear, that she did sigh and moan,
And when her father saw her in bed
He was heart-stricken with fear and dread.
So within a few days poor Sarah did die,
And for the loss of Sarah the drunken father did cry,
So the loss of his child soon converted him
From drinking either whiskey, rum or gin.
So you rode from the range where your brothers “select,”
Through the ghostly grey bush in the dawn---
You rode slowly at first, lest her heart should suspect
That you were glad to be gone;
You had scarcely the courage to glance back at her
By the homestead receding from view,
And you breathed with relief as you rounded the spur,
For the world was a wide world to you.
Grey eyes that grow sadder than sunset or rain,
Fond heart that is ever more true
Firm faith that grows firmer for watching in vain---
She’ll wait by the sliprails for you.
Ah! The world is a new and a wide one to you,
But the world to your sweetheart is shut,
For a change never comes to the lonely Bush girl
From the stockyard, the bush, and the hut;
And the only relief from the dullness she feels
Is when ridges grow softened and dim,
And away in the dusk to the sliprails she steals
To dream of past meetings “with him.”
Do you think, where, in place of bare fences, dry creeks,
Clear streams and green hedges are seen---
Where the girls have the lily and rose in their cheeks,
And the grass in midsummer is green---
Do you think now and then, now or then, in the whirl
Of the city, while London is new,
Of the hut in the Bush, and the freckled-faced girl
Who is eating her heart out for you?
Grey eyes that are sadder than sunset or rain,
Bruised heart that is ever more true,
Fond faith that is firmer for trusting in vain---
She waits by the sliprails for you
Seven sweet singing birds up in a tree;
Seven swift sailing ships white upon the sea;
Seven bright weather-cocks shining in the sun;
Seven slim race-horses ready for a run;
Seven gold butterflies, flitting overhead;
Seven red roses blowing in a garden bed;
Seven white lilies, with honey bees inside them;
Seven round rainbows with clouds to divide them;
Seven pretty little girls with sugar on their lips;
Seven witty little boys, whom everybody tips;
Seven nice fathers, to call little maids joys;
Seven nice mothers, to kiss the little boys;
Seven nights running I dreamt it all plain;
With bread and jam for supper I could dream it all again!
She wasn't the least bit pretty,
And only the least bit gay;
And she walked with a firm elastic tread,
In a business-like kind of way.
Her dress was of coarse, brown woollen,
Plainly but neatly made,
Trimmed with some common ribbon
Or cheaper kind of braid;
And a hat with a broken feather,
And shawl of a modest plaid.
Her face seemed worn and weary,
And traced with lines of care,
As her nut-brown tresses blew aside
In the keen December air;
Yet she was not old, scarce twenty,
And her form was full and sleek,
But her heavy eye, and tired step,
Seemed of wearisome toil to speak;
She worked as a common factory girl
For two dollars and a half a week.
Ten hours a day of labor
In a close, ill-lighted room;
Machinery's buzz for music,
Waste gas for sweet perfume;
Hot stifling vapors in summer,
Chill draughts on a winter's day,
No pause for rest or pleasure
On pain of being sent away;
So ran her civilized serfdom --
Four cents an hour the pay.
"A fair day's work," say the masters,
And "a fair day's pay," say the men;
There's a strike -- a rise in wages,
What effect to the poor girl then?
A harder struggle than ever
The honest path to keep;
And so sink a little lower,
Some humbler home to seek;
For living is dearer -- her wages,
Two dollars and a half a week.
A man gets thrice the money,
But then "a man's a man,
"And a woman surely can't expect
"To earn as much as he can."
Of his hire the laborer's worthy,
Be that laborer who it may;
If a woman can do a man's work
She should have a man's full pay,
Not to be left to starve -- or sin --
On forty cents a day.
Two dollars and a half to live on,
Or starve on, if you will;
Two dollars and a half to dress on,
And a hungry mouth to fill;
Two dollars and a half to lodge on
In some wretched hole or den,
Where crowds are huddled together,
Girls, and women, and men;
If she sins to escape her bondage
Is there room for wonder then.
the girl inside has a fear,
of what the girl inside holds so dear,
far from reality, but always in dream,
the girl inside is screaming althought it may not seem,
it grows louder and louder everyday,
just wondering why the feeling just wouldnt stay,
the girl inside more then ever wants to run,
just wanting to tell everyone that she is done,
the girl inside feels sick all over,
in her head she feels so drunk,
she just cant seem to shake this phunk,
the girl inside just wants to die,
even when the girl out side wond dare to cry,
the girl inside has a fear,
of what the girl inside holds so dear,
but the girl outside just wont let it near! ! !
My tree will know it all
the tree of my childhood
with the endless branches
and the many whispers
My tree remembers
the girl with the wind in her hair
the girl with the crazy laughter
the girl with the fear of living
the girl I used to be
before
In my tree
everything I want to be
will be
In my tree
I can see the world
but no one can see me
My tree remembers me
the girl I used to be
before
Spring rides no horses down the hill,
But comes on foot, a goose-girl still.
And all the loveliest things there be
Come simply, so, it seems to me.
If ever I said, in grief or pride,
I tired of honest things, I lied:
And should be cursed forevermore
With Love in laces, like a whore,
And neighbours cold, and friends unsteady,
And Spring on horseback, like a lady!
She is free of the trap and the paddle,
The portage and the trail,
But something behind her savage life
Shines like a fragile veil.
Her dreams are undiscovered,
Shadows trouble her breast,
When the time for resting cometh
Then least is she at rest.
Oft in the morns of winter,
When she visits the rabbit snares,
An appearance floats in the crystal air
Beyond the balsam firs.
Oft in the summer mornings
When she strips the nets of fish,
The smell of the dripping net-twine
Gives to her heart a wish.
But she cannot learn the meaning
Of the shadows in her soul,
The lights that break and gather,
The clouds that part and roll,
The reek of rock-built cities,
Where her fathers dwelt of yore,
The gleam of loch and shealing,
The mist on the moor,
Frail traces of kindred kindness,
Of feud by hill and strand,
The heritage of an age-long life
In a legendary land.
She wakes in the stifling wigwam,
Where the air is heavy and wild,
She fears for something or nothing
With the heart of a frightened child.
She sees the stars turn slowly
Past the tangle of the poles,
Through the smoke of the dying embers,
Like the eyes of dead souls.
Her heart is shaken with longing
For the strange, still years,
For what she knows and knows not,
For the wells of ancient tears.
A voice calls from the rapids,
Deep, careless and free,
A voice that is larger than her life
Or than her death shall be.
She covers her face with her blanket,
Her fierce soul hates her breath,
As it cries with a sudden passion
For life or death.
A week ago; only a little week:
it seems so much much longer, though that day
is every morning still my yesterday;
as all my life 'twill be my yesterday,
for all my life is morrow to my love.
Oh fortunate morrow! Oh sweet happy love!
A week ago; and I am almost glad
to have him now gone for this little while,
that I may think of him and tell myself
what to be his means, now that I am his,
and know if mine is love enough for him,
and make myself believe it all is true.
A week ago; and it seems like a life,
and I have not yet learned to know myself:
I am so other than I was, so strange,
grown younger and grown older all in one;
and I am not so sad and not so gay;
and I think nothing, only hear him think.
That morning, waking, I remembered him
"Will he be here to-day? he often comes; --
and is it for my sake or to kill time?"
and, wondering "Will he come?" I chose the dress
he seemed to like the best, and hoped for him;
and did not think I could quite love him yet.
And did I love him then with all my heart?
or did I wait until he held my hands
and spoke "Say, shall it be?" and kissed my brow,
and I looked at him and he knew it all?
And did I love him from the day we met?
but I more gladly danced with some one else
who waltzed more smoothly and was merrier:
and did I love him when he first came here?
but I more gladly talked with some one else
whose words were readier and who sought me more.
When did I love him? How did it begin?
The small green spikes of snowdrops in the spring
are there one morning ere you think of them;
still we may tell what morning they pierced up:
June rosebuds stir and open stealthily,
and every new blown rose is a surprise;
still we can date the day when one unclosed:
but how can I tell when my love began?
Oh, was it like the young pale twilight star
that quietly breaks on the vacant sky,
is sudden there and perfect while you watch,
and, though you watch, you have not seen it dawn,
the star that only waited and awoke?
But he knows when he loved me; for he says
the first time we had met he told a friend
"The sweetest dewy daisy of a girl,
but not the solid stuff to make a wife;"
and afterwards the first time he was here,
when I had slipped away into our field
to watch alone for sunset brightening on
and heard them calling me, he says he stood
and saw me come along the coppice walk
beneath the green and sparkling arch of boughs,
and, while he watched the yellow lights that played
with the dim flickering shadows of the leaves
over my yellow hair and soft pale dress,
flitting across me as I flitted through,
he whispered inly, in so many words,
"I see my wife; this is my wife who comes,
and seems to bear the sunlight on with her:"
and that was when he loved me, so he says.
Yet is he quite sure? was it only then?
and had he had no thought which I could feel?
for why was it I knew that he would watch,
and all the while thought in my silly heart,
as I advanced demurely, it was well
I had on the pale dress with sweeping folds
which took the light and shadow tenderly,
and that the sunlights touched my hair and cheek,
because he'd note it all and care for it?
Oh vain and idle poor girl's heart of mine,
content with that coquettish mean content!
He, with his man's straight purpose, thinking "wife,"
and I but that 'twas pleasant to be fair
and that 'twas pleasant he should count me fair.
But oh, to think he should be loving me
and I be no more moved out of myself!
The sunbeams told him, but they told me nought,
except that maybe I was looking well.
And oh had I but known! Why did no bird,
trilling its own sweet lovesong, as I passed,
so musically marvellously glad,
sing one for me too, sing me "It is he,"
sing "Love him," and "You love him: it is he,"
that I might then have loved him when he loved,
that one dear moment might be date to both?
And must I not be glad he hid his thought
and did not tell me then, when it was soon
and I should have been startled, and not known
how he is just the one man I can love,
and, only with some pain lest he were pained,
and nothing doubting, should have answered "No."
How strange life is! I should have answered "No."
Oh, can I ever be half glad enough
he is so wise and patient and could wait!
He waited as you wait the reddening fruit
which helplessly is ripening on the tree,
and not because it tries or longs or wills,
only because the sun will shine on it:
but he who waited was himself that sun.
Oh was it worth the waiting? was it worth?
For I am half afraid love is not love,
this love which only makes me rest in him
and be so happy and so confident,
this love which makes me pray for longest days
that I may have them all to use for him,
this love which almost makes me yearn for pain
that I might have borne something for his sake,
this love which I call love, is less than love.
Where are the fires and fevers and the pangs?
where is the anguish of too much delight,
and the delirious madness at a kiss,
the flushing and the paling at a look,
and passionate ecstasy of meeting hands?
where is the eager weariness at time
that will not bate a single measured hour
to speed to us the far-off wedding day?
I am so calm and wondering, like a child
who, led by a firm hand it knows and trusts
along a stranger country beautiful
with a bewildering beauty to new eyes
if they be wise to know what they behold,
finds newness everywhere but no surprise,
and takes the beauty as an outward part
of being led so kindly by the hand.
I am so cold: is mine but a child's heart,
and not a woman's fit for such a man?
Alas am I too cold, am I too dull,
can I not love him as another could?
And oh, if love be fire, what love is mine
that is but like the pale subservient moon
who only asks to be earth's minister?
And, oh, if love be whirlwind, what is mine
that is but like a little even brook
which has no aim but flowing to the sea,
and sings for happiness because it flows?
Ah well, I would that I could love him more
and not be only happy as I am;
I would that I could love him to his worth,
with that forgetting all myself in him,
that subtle pain of exquisite excess,
that momentary infinite sharp joy,
I know by books but cannot teach my heart:
and yet I think my love must needs be love,
since he can read me through -- oh happy strange,
my thoughts that were my secrets all for me
grown instantly his open easy book! --
since he can read me through, and is content.
And yesterday, when they all went away,
save little Amy with her daisy chains,
and left us in that shadow of tall ferns,
and the child, leaning on me, fell asleep,
and I, tired by the afternoon long walk,
said "I could almost gladly sleep like her,"
did he not answer, drawing down my head,
"Sleep, darling, let me see you rest on me,"
and when the child, awaking, wakened me,
did he not say "Dear, you have made me glad,
for, seeing you so sleeping peacefully,
I feel that you do love me utterly,
no questionings, no regrettings, but at rest."
Oh yes, my good true darling, you spoke well
"No questionings, no regrettings, but at rest:"
what should I question, what should I regret,
now I have you who are my hope and rest?
I am the feathery wind-wafted seed
that flickered idly half a merry morn,
now thralled into the rich life-giving earth
to root and bud and waken into leaf
and make it such poor sweetness as I may;
the prisoned seed that never more shall float
the frolic playfellow of summer winds
and mimic the free changeful butterfly;
the prisoned seed that prisoned finds its life
and feels its pulses stir, and grows, and grows.
Oh love, who gathered me into yourself,
oh love, I am at rest in you, and live.
And shall I for so many coming days
be flower and sweetness to him? Oh pale flower,
grow, grow, and blossom out, and fill the air,
feed on his richness, grow, grow, blossom out,
and fill the air, and be enough for him.
Oh crystal music of the air-borne lark,
so falling, nearer, nearer, from the sky,
are you a message to me of dear hopes?
oh trilling gladness, flying down to earth,
have you brought answer of sweet prophecy?
have you brought answer to the thoughts in me?
Oh happy answer, and oh happy thoughts!
and which is the bird's carol, which my heart's?
My love, my love, my love! And I shall be
so much to him, so almost everything:
and I shall be the friend whom he will trust,
and I shall be the child whom he will teach,
and I shall be the servant he will praise,
and I shall be the mistress he will love,
and I shall be his wife. Oh days to come,
will ye not pass like gentle rhythmic steps
that fall to sweetest music noiselessly?
But I have known the lark's song half sound sad,
and I have seen the lake, which rippled sun,
toss dimmed and purple in a sudden wind;
and let me laugh a moment at my heart
that thinks the summer-time must all be fair,
that thinks the good days always must be good:
yes let me laugh a moment -- may be weep.
But no, but no, not laugh; for through my joy
I have been wise enough to know the while
some tears and some long hours are in all lives,
in every promised land some thorn plants grow,
some tangling weeds as well as laden vines:
and no, not weep; for is not my land fair,
my land of promise flushed with fruit and bloom?
and who would weep for fear of scattered thorns?
and very thorns bear oftentimes sweet fruits.
Oh the black storm that breaks across the lake
ruffles the surface, leaves the deeps at rest --
deep in our hearts there always will be rest:
oh summer storms fall sudden as they rose,
the peaceful lake forgets them while they die --
our hearts will always have it summer time.
All rest, all summer time. My love, my love,
I know it will be so; you are so good,
and I, near you, shall grow at last like you;
and you are tender, patient -- oh I know
you will bear with me, help me, smile to me,
and let me make you happy easily;
and I, what happiness could I have more
than that dear labour of a happy wife?
I would not have another. Is it wrong,
and is it selfish that I cannot wish,
that I, who yet so love the clasping hand
and innocent fond eyes of little ones,
I cannot wish that which I sometimes read
is women's dearest wish hid in their love,
to press a baby creature to my breast?
Oh is it wrong? I would be all for him,
not even children coming 'twixt us two
to call me from his service to serve them;
and maybe they would steal too much of love,
for, since I cannot love him now enough,
what would my heart be halved? or would it grow?
But he perhaps would love me something less,
finding me not so always at his side.
Together always, that was what he said;
together always. Oh dear coming days!
O dear dear present days that pass too fast,
although they bring such rainbow morrows on!
that pass so fast, and yet, I know not why,
seem always to encompass so much time.
And I should fear I were too happy now,
and making this poor world too much my Heaven,
but that I feel God nearer and it seems
as if I had learned His love better too.
So late already! The sun dropping down,
and under him the first long line of red --
my truant should be here again by now,
is come maybe. I will not seek him, I;
he would be vain and think I cared too much;
I will wait here, and he shall seek for me,
and I will carelessly -- Oh his dear step --
he sees me, he is coming; my own love!
She, under her
Big smile stows
away
the unhappy memories
she wants to be
the perfect happy
person in
this world and
everyone would love
Her and she
Kids
herself, she kids
herself of what
she really
is And she is
the empty shell
waiting to be filled
And she is
the little los   t   orphan
waiting to be found
And she is
the  blank  book
waiting to be written in
and she is
hollow.
once upon a time there was a little girl.
she liked to sit outside at night and talk to the moon.
everynight she kept the moon company.
one night she noticed the moon seemed tired, so
she climbed upon the roof, to tell the moon a secret.
the old moon smiled, so she reaches up
takes the moon in her hands and puts him in her pocket.
then she climbs down and goes into her house, up the stairs
to her room.there she takes the moon out and lets lay on
her bed.for hours they talked, told secrets and giggled.
then they heard people asking where the moon was.
outside was so dark, they couldnt find their ways.
the old moon says to the little girl
'maybe you should put me back into the sky,
so the people can find their way home at night'.
the little girl agreed.so she picks up the moon,
puts him back into her pocket.
she walks downstairs and goes outside.
it was very dark, but she wasnt afraid,
she had her friend the moon to help
show her the way.
she climbs back upon the roof, takes the moon out
of her pocket. holding him with both hands
she tells the moon'i love you,
we will still talk every night, but you must go back
give people light at nightime'.
she leans over kisses the moon goodnight.
then reaches back and tosses the moon
hard as she could back into the
nightime sky.
then the little girl and the moon hear, all the people
shouting and laughing.
after everything quietened down
the stars who were so happy the moon returned
all gave the moon kisses.
the little girl climbed down
with the moon lighting her way
went inside up to her room
took 1 last peek out
blowing the moon a big kiss goodnight.
All the night in woe,
Lyca's parents go:
Over vallies deep.
While the desarts weep.
Tired and woe-begone.
Hoarse with making moan:
Arm in arm seven days.
They trac'd the desert ways.
Seven nights they sleep.
Among shadows deep:
And dream they see their child
Starvdd in desart wild.
Pale thro' pathless ways
The fancied image strays.
Famish'd, weeping, weak
With hollow piteous shriek
Rising from unrest,
The trembling woman prest,
With feet of weary woe;
She could no further go.
In his arms he bore.
Her arm'd with sorrow sore:
Till before their way
A couching lion lay.
Turning back was vain,
Soon his heavy mane.
Bore them to the ground;
Then he stalk'd around.
Smelling to his prey,
But their fears allay,
When he licks their hands:
And silent by them stands.
They look upon his eyes
Fill'd with deep surprise:
And wondering behold.
A spirit arm'd in gold.
On his head a crown
On his shoulders down,
Flow'd his golden hair.
Gone was all their care.
Follow me he said,
Weep not for the maid;
In my palace deep.
Lyca lies asleep.
Then they followed,
Where the vision led;
And saw their sleeping child,
Among tygers wild.
To this day they dwell
In a lonely dell
Nor fear the wolvish howl,
Nor the lion's growl.
In futurity
I prophesy see.
That the earth from sleep.
(Grave the sentence deep)
Shall arise and seek
For her maker meek:
And the desart wild
Become a garden mild.
In the southern clime,
Where the summers prime
Never fades away;
Lovely Lyca lay.
Seven summers old
Lovely Lyca told,
She had wandered long.
Hearing wild birds song.
Sweet sleep come to me
Underneath this tree;
Do father, mother weep.--
"Where can Lyca sleep".
Lost in desert wild
Is your little child.
How can Lyca sleep.
If her mother weep.
If her heart does ake.
Then let Lyca wake;
If my mother sleep,
Lyca shall not weep.
Frowning, frowning night,
O'er this desert bright.
Let thy moon arise.
While I close my eyes.
Sleeping Lyca lay:
While the beasts of prey,
Come from caverns deep,
View'd the maid asleep
The kingly lion stood
And the virgin view'd:
Then he gambolled round
O'er the hallowed ground:
Leopards, tygers play,
Round her as she lay;
While the lion old,
Bow'd his mane of gold,
And her bosom lick,
And upon her neck,
From his eyes of flame,
Ruby tears there came;
While the lioness
Loos'd her slender dress,
And naked they convey'd
To caves the sleeping maid.
It was biting cold, and the falling snow,
Which filled a poor little match girl's heart with woe,
Who was bareheaded and barefooted, as she went along the street,
Crying, "Who'll buy my matches? for I want pennies to buy some meat!"
When she left home she had slippers on;
But, alas! poor child, now they were gone.
For she lost both of them while hurrying across the street,
Out of the way of two carriages which were near by her feet.
So the little girl went on, while the snow fell thick and fast;
And the child's heart felt cold and downcast,
For nobody had bought any matchea that day,
Which filled her little mind with grief and dismay.
Alas! she was hungry and shivering with cold;
So in a corner between two houses she made bold
To take shelter from the violent storm.
Poor little waif! wishing to herself she'd never been born.
And she grew colder and colder, and feared to go home
For fear of her father beating her; and she felt woe-begone
Because she could carry home no pennies to buy bread,
And to go home without pennies she was in dread.
The large flakes of snow covered her ringlets of fair hair;
While the passers-by for her had no care,
As they hurried along to their homes at a quick pace,
While the cold wind blew in the match girl's face.
As night wore on her hands were numb with cold,
And no longer her strength could her uphold,
When an idea into her little head came:
She'd strike a match and warm her hands at the flame.
And she lighted the match, and it burned brightly,
And it helped to fill her heart with glee;
And she thought she was sitting at a stove very grand;
But, alas! she was found dead, with a match in her hand!
Her body was found half-covered with snow,
And as the people gazed thereon their hearts were full of woe;
And many present let fall a burning tear
Because she was found dead on the last night of the year,
In that mighty city of London, wherein is plenty of gold -
But, alas! their charity towards street waifs is rather cold.
But I hope the match girl's in Heaven, beside her Saviour dear,
A bright reward for all the hardships she suffered here.
I.
Dark was the dawn, and o'er the deep
The boist'rous whirlwinds blew;
The Sea-bird wheel'd its circling sweep,
And all was drear to view--
When on the beach that binds the western shore
The love-lorn ZELMA stood, list'ning the tempest's roar.
II.
Her eager Eyes beheld the main,
While on her DRACO dear
She madly call'd, but call'd in vain,
No sound could DRACO hear,
Save the shrill yelling of the fateful blast,
While ev'ry Seaman's heart, quick shudder'd as it past.
III.
White were the billows, wide display'd
The clouds were black and low;
The Bittern shriek'd, a gliding shade
Seem'd o'er the waves to go !
The livid flash illum'd the clam'rous main,
While ZELMA pour'd, unmark'd, her melancholy strain.
IV.
"Be still!" she cried, "loud tempest cease!
"O ! spare the gallant souls:
"The thunder rolls--the winds increase--
"The Sea, like mountains, rolls!
"While, from the deck, the storm worn victims leap,
"And o'er their struggling limbs, the furious billows sweep.
V.
"O! barb'rous Pow'r! relentless Fate!
"Does Heav'n's high will decree
"That some should sleep on beds of state,--
"Some, in the roaring Sea ?
"Some, nurs'd in splendour, deal Oppression's blow,
"While worth and DRACO pine--in Slavery and woe!
VI.
"Yon Vessel oft has plough'd the main
"With human traffic fraught;
"Its cargo,--our dark Sons of pain--
"For worldly treasure bought !
"What had they done?--O Nature tell me why--
"Is taunting scorn the lot, of thy dark progeny?
VII.
"Thou gav'st, in thy caprice, the Soul
"Peculiarly enshrin'd;
"Nor from the ebon Casket stole
"The Jewel of the mind!
"Then wherefore let the suff'ring Negro's breast
"Bow to his fellow, MAN, in brighter colours drest.
VIII.
"Is it the dim and glossy hue
"That marks him for despair?--
"While men with blood their hands embrue,
"And mock the wretch's pray'r?
"Shall guiltless Slaves the Scourge of tyrants feel,
"And, e'en before their GOD ! unheard, unpitied kneel.
IX.
"Could the proud rulers of the land
"Our Sable race behold;
"Some bow'd by torture's Giant hand
"And others, basely sold !
"Then would they pity Slaves, and cry, with shame,
"Whate'er their TINTS may be, their SOULS are still the same!
X.
"Why seek to mock the Ethiop's face?
"Why goad our hapless kind?
"Can features alienate the race--
"Is there no kindred mind?
"Does not the cheek which vaunts the roseate hue
"Oft blush for crimes, that Ethiops never knew?
XI.
"Behold ! the angry waves conspire
"To check the barb'rous toil!
"While wounded Nature's vengeful ire--
"Roars, round this trembling Isle!
"And hark ! her voice re-echoes in the wind--
"Man was not form'd by Heav'n, to trample on his kind!
XII.
"Torn from my Mother's aching breast,
"My Tyrant sought my love--
"But, in the Grave shall ZELMA rest,
"E'er she will faithless prove--
"No DRACO!--Thy companion I will be
"To that celestial realm, where Negros shall be free!
XIII.
"The Tyrant WHITE MAN taught my mind--
"The letter'd page to trace;--
"He taught me in the Soul to find
"No tint, as in the face:
"He bade my Reason, blossom like the tree--
"But fond affection gave, the ripen'd fruits to thee.
XIV.
"With jealous rage he mark'd my love
"He sent thee far away;--
"And prison'd in the plantain grove--
"Poor ZELMA pass'd the day--
"But ere the moon rose high above the main,
"ZELMA, and Love contriv'd, to break the Tyrant's chain.
XV.
"Swift, o'er the plain of burning Sand
"My course I bent to thee;
"And soon I reach'd the billowy strand
"Which bounds the stormy Sea.--
"DRACO! my Love! Oh yet, thy ZELMA'S soul
"Springs ardently to thee,--impatient of controul.
XVI.
"Again the lightning flashes white--
"The rattling cords among!
"Now, by the transient vivid light,
"I mark the frantic throng!
"Now up the tatter'd shrouds my DRACO flies--
While o'er the plunging prow, the curling billows rise.
XVII.
"The topmast falls--three shackled slaves--
"Cling to the Vessel's side!
"Now lost amid the madd'ning waves--
"Now on the mast they ride--
"See ! on the forecastle my DRACO stands
"And now he waves his chain, now clasps his bleeding hands.
XVIII.
"Why, cruel WHITE-MAN! when away
"My sable Love was torn,
"Why did you let poor ZELMA stay,
On Afric's sands to mourn?
"No ! ZELMA is not left, for she will prove
"In the deep troubled main, her fond--her faithful LOVE."
XIX.
The lab'ring Ship was now a wreck,
The shrouds were flutt'ring wide!
The rudder gone, the lofty deck
Was rock'd from side to side--
Poor ZELMA'S eyes now dropp'd their last big tear,
While, from her tawny cheek, the blood recoil'd with fear.
XX.
Now frantic, on the sands she roam'd,
Now shrieking stop'd to view
Where high the liquid mountains foam'd,
Around the exhausted crew--
'Till, from the deck, her DRACO'S well known form
Sprung mid the yawning waves, and buffetted the Storm.
XXI.
Long, on the swelling surge sustain'd
Brave DRACO sought the shore,
Watch'd the dark Maid, but ne'er complain'd,
Then sunk, to gaze no more!
Poor ZELMA saw him buried by the wave--
And, with her heart's true Love, plung'd in a wat'ry grave.
I've often thought that headstrong youths
Of decent education,
Determine all-important truths,
With strange precipitation.
The ever-ready victims they,
Of logical illusions,
And in a self-assertive way
They jump at strange conclusions.
Now take my case:  Ere sorrow could
My ample forehead wrinkle,
I had determined that I should
Not care to be a winkle.
"A winkle," I would oft advance
With readiness provoking,
"Can seldom flirt, and never dance,
Or soothe his mind by smoking."
In short, I spurned the shelly joy,
And spoke with strange decision -
Men pointed to me as a boy
Who held them in derision.
But I was young - too young, by far -
Or I had been more wary,
I knew not then that winkles are
The stock-in-trade of MARY.
I had not watched her sunlight blithe
As o'er their shells it dances -
I've seen those winkles almost writhe
Beneath her beaming glances.
Of slighting all the winkly brood
I surely had been chary,
If I had known they formed the food
And stock-in-trade of MARY.
Both high and low and great and small
Fell prostrate at her tootsies,
They all were noblemen, and all
Had balances at COUTTS'S.
Dukes with the lovely maiden dealt,
DUKE BAILEY and DUKE HUMPHY,
Who ate her winkles till they felt
Exceedingly uncomfy.
DUKE BAILEY greatest wealth computes,
And sticks, they say, at no-thing,
He wears a pair of golden boots
And silver underclothing.
DUKE HUMPHY, as I understand,
Though mentally acuter,
His boots are only silver, and
His underclothing pewter.
A third adorer had the girl,
A man of lowly station -
A miserable grov'ling Earl
Besought her approbation.
This humble cad she did refuse
With much contempt and loathing,
He wore a pair of leather shoes
And cambric underclothing!
"Ha! ha!" she cried.  "Upon my word!
Well, really - come, I never!
Oh, go along, it's too absurd!
My goodness!  Did you ever?
"Two Dukes would Mary make a bride,
And from her foes defend her" -
"Well, not exactly that," they cried,
"We offer guilty splendour.
"We do not offer marriage rite,
So please dismiss the notion!"
"Oh dear," said she, "that alters quite
The state of my emotion."
The Earl he up and says, says he,
"Dismiss them to their orgies,
For I am game to marry thee
Quite reg'lar at St. George's."
(He'd had, it happily befell,
A decent education,
His views would have befitted well
A far superior station.)
His sterling worth had worked a cure,
She never heard him grumble;
She saw his soul was good and pure,
Although his rank was humble.
Her views of earldoms and their lot,
All underwent expansion -
Come, Virtue in an earldom's cot!
Go, Vice in ducal mansion!
There is a girl inside.
She is randy as a wolf.
She will not walk away and leave these bones
to an old woman.
She is a green tree in a forest of kindling.
She is a greeen girl in a used poet.
She has waited patient as a nun
for the second coming,
when she can break through gray hairs
into blossom
and her lovers will harvest
honey and thyme
and the woods will be wild
with the damn wonder of it.
There was a little girl,
Who had a little curl,
Right in the middle of her forehead.
When she was good,
She was very good indeed,
But when she was bad she was horrid.
I'm looking for a girl who's right for me,
One who knows how to talk intelligently,
She'll laugh at all my jokes,
And ignore the other blokes,
And find that I am just her cup of tea.
The task is not so easy, I have found,
There aren't that many 'right' ones still around,
But if they're out there somewhere,
And if any of them might care,
To find me, then I won't be going to ground.
My charisma can be in itself impressive,
My conversation I know is quite expressive,
I am kind in word and deed,
And I think you will concede,
That I wouldn't be someone who'd be repressive.
I can say that I'm a very balanced chap,
Who, when the going's tough would never flap,
But I'm really keen to find,
A lady of like mind,
Who in fact could quite ideally fill the gap.
So I'm hoping that this lady turns up soon,
Perhaps it could be this very afternoon,
I would greet her with a smile,
Which would certainly beguile,
And my vibrant personality should make her swoon.
So, do you think, that I could really have a chance,
Do you think that she would give me just one glance,
If this 'Miss Right' doesn't show,
That would really be a blow,
And put an end to all my thoughts of true romance.
No, there's got to be a girl who's right for me,
I won't believe there isn't, so soon you'll see,
An attractive lady on my arm,
A lady with such charm,
That eventually we'd become a Royal 'We'.
©   Ernestine Northover
The sun goes down, and with him takes
The coarseness of my por attire;
The fair moon mounts, and aye the flame
Of Gypsy beauty blazes higher.
Pale Northern girls! you scorn our race;
You captives of your air-tight halls,
Wear out in-doors your sickly days,
But leave us the horizon walls.
And if I take you, dames, to task,
And say it frankly without guile,
Then you are Gypsies in a mask,
And I the lady all the while.
If, on the heath, below the moon,
I court and play with paler blood,
Me false to mine dare whisper none,--
One sallow horseman knows me good.
Go, keep your cheek's rose from the rain,
For teeth and hair with shopmen deal;
My swarthy tint is in the grain,
The rocks and forest knoww it real.
The wild air bloweth in out lungs,
The keen stars twinkle in our eyes,
The birds gave us our wily tongues,
The panther in our dances flies.
You doubt we read the stars on high,
Nathless we read your fortunes true;
The stars may hide in the upper sky,
But without glass we fathom you.
Look upon this face, what do you see
A Girl with wondering eyes and a dancing soul
Secrets that will never be told
Mysteries that are so strange that few would understand
She holds the world in the palm of her hand
Dreams and wishes are shown in the smile
And her gleaming eyes can be seen over a mile
Her pressures and fears she hides behind her back
Her emotions can be seen like that!
The key to her heart is locked up tight
For she doubts she will meet the one that's just right
To be strong is harder that you would believe
Its like trying to fly away even though you would never leave
Her spirit soars high above the sky
And she dreams of a better place...
Sometimes its simply lying in the rye
Back of my back, they talk of me,
Gabble and honk and hiss;
Let them batten, and let them be-
Me, I can sing them this:
"Better to shiver beneath the stars,
Head on a faithless breast,
Than peer at the night through rusted bars,
And share an irksome rest.
"Better to see the dawn come up,
Along of a trifling one,
Than set a steady man's cloth and cup
And pray the day be done.
"Better be left by twenty dears
Than lie in a loveless bed;
Better a loaf that's wet with tears
Than cold, unsalted bread."
Back of my back, they wag their chins,
Whinny and bleat and sigh;
But better a heart a-bloom with sins
Than hearts gone yellow and dry!
This Girl In The Dark
Has a beautiful face without a name
And a beautiful smile to hide the pain
This Girl In the Dark
Has cuts up her arm
Loves nothing more then self harm
This Girl in the dark
Doesn’t know how much longer she can keep trying
Everyday she’s slowly dying
This Girl in the Dark
Sits all alone
Wants a place to truly call home
This Girl in the dark
Wants nothing more then to be free
I know this because this Girl is me
She huddles against the dirty wall
hugging it ever so tight;
hopeing that he will choose not to do
the things, he did last night.
Her breathing is ever so shallow
no signs of life in her.
A technique she's developed with perfection,
to guard her twisted world.
'Maybe he will think i'm dead, ' she hopes
'For he can't see me breath,
perhapes for just one night,
he will turn around and leave'
Her wishes fade away in the night
as he climb into her bed
and any hopes of fooling him
are replaced with anquish and dread.
She knows too well the ritual,
it's the same as the night before.
The abuser will take what he wants from her
and no words will this child implore.
For she tries so hard to please him
and everyone she loved.
Yet all of the time she cringes
from their touch.
While she is huddled against the wall
never once looked in to he's eyes
She can almost she him smiling
as he rape this child of nine.
This little girl holds back the tears.
she knows she soon will cry
she utters not a single word.
As he enjoys the one he despise.
And when the torment is over,
he leave without a sound,
and the tears that she's been holding  back,
fall silently to the ground.
.   Sweet Highland Girl, a very shower
Of beauty is thy earthly dower!
Twice seven consenting years have shed
Their utmost bounty on thy head:
And these grey rocks; that household lawn;
Those trees, a veil just half withdrawn;
This fall of water that doth make
A murmur near the silent lake;
This little bay; a quiet road
That holds in shelter thy Abode--
In truth together do ye seem
Like something fashioned in a dream;
Such Forms as from their covert peep
When earthly cares are laid asleep!
But, O fair Creature! in the light
Of common day, so heavenly bright,
I bless Thee, Vision as thou art,
I bless thee with a human heart;
God shield thee to thy latest years!
Thee, neither know I, nor thy peers;
And yet my eyes are filled with tears.
With earnest feeling I shall pray
For thee when I am far away:
For never saw I mien, or face,
In which more plainly I could trace
Benignity and home-bred sense
Ripening in perfect innocence.
Here scattered, like a random seed,
Remote from men, Thou dost not need
The embarrassed look of shy distress,
And maidenly shamefacedness:
Thou wear'st upon thy forehead clear
The freedom of a Mountaineer:
A face with gladness overspread!
Soft smiles, by human kindness bred!
And seemliness complete, that sways
Thy courtesies, about thee plays;
With no restraint, but such as springs
From quick and eager visitings
Of thoughts that lie beyond the reach
Of thy few words of English speech:
A bondage sweetly brooked, a strife
That gives thy gestures grace and life!
So have I, not unmoved in mind,
Seen birds of tempest-loving kind--
Thus beating up against the wind.
What hand but would a garland cull
For thee who art so beautiful?
O happy pleasure! here to dwell
Beside thee in some heathy dell;
Adopt your homely ways, and dress,
A Shepherd, thou a Shepherdess!
But I could frame a wish for thee
More like a grave reality:
Thou art to me but as a wave
Of the wild sea; and I would have
Some claim upon thee, if I could,
Though but of common neighbourhood.
What joy to hear thee, and to see!
Thy elder Brother I would be,
Thy Father--anything to thee!
Now thanks to Heaven! that of its grace
Hath led me to this lonely place.
Joy have I had; and going hence
I bear away my recompense.
In spots like these it is we prize
Our Memory, feel that she hath eyes:
Then, why should I be loth to stir?
I feel this place was made for her;
To give new pleasure like the past,
Continued long as life shall last.
Nor am I loth, though pleased at heart,
Sweet Highland Girl! from thee to part;
For I, methinks, till I grow old,
As fair before me shall behold,
As I do now, the cabin small,
The lake, the bay, the waterfall;
And thee, the spirit of them all!
AND has my darling told a lie?
Did she forget that GOD was by?
That GOD, who saw the things she did,
From whom no action can be hid;
Did she forget that GOD could see
And hear, wherever she might be?
He made your eyes, and can discern
Whichever way you think to turn;
He made your ears, and he can hear
When you think nobody is near;
In every place, by night or day,
He watches all you do and say.
Oh, how I wish you would but try
To act, as shall not need a lie;
And when you wish a thing to do,
That has been once forbidden you,
Remember that, nor ever dare
To disobey­, for GOD is there.
Why should you fear the truth to tell?
Does falsehood ever do so well?
Can you be satisfied to know,
There's something wrong to hide below?
No! let your fault be what it may,
To own it is the happy way.
So long as you your crime conceal,
You cannot light and gladsome feel:
Your little heart will seem oppress'd,
As if a weight were on your breast;
And e'en your mother's eye to meet,
Will tinge your face with shame and heat.
Yes, GOD has made your duty clear,
By every blush, by every fear;
And conscience, like an angel kind,
Keeps watch to bring it to your mind:
Its friendly warnings ever heed,
And neither tell a lie­ nor need.
There is no way to explain
Unending sorrow and grief,
No way to kiss a young girl’s cheek
In a way that would give her back
The joy death has stolen.
Humans are brave enough
To live and bleed and die,
But to be the one remaining
As others say goodbye
Is too much to withstand.
There are evil stars that smirk
And thus mark us for treacherous fates,
The days all burn like desert fields
Until there is nothing left to love
And nothing left to feel.
When the sklll'd fashioner of female faces
Designed your mask, he wrought with cunning fist,
And made a mouth expressly to be kiss'd -
Not for shrill utterance nor pert grimaces.
The curved, ripe lips-above the rounded chin -
He dyed the hue of summer's reddest rose,
Then placed a smile upon them to disclose
A glimpse of white and even pearls within.
Those lips are silent, sweetheart! - but your eyes
Are eloquent, and they love's lesson teach
Better than other woman's aptest speech -
In their soft light the tend'rest language lies.
In womankind - the world has long confess'd -
A silent mouth and speaking eyes are best.
MY dear, my dear, I know
More than another
What makes your heart beat so;
Not even your own mother
Can know it as I know,
Who broke my heart for her
When the wild thought,
That she denies
And has forgot,
Set all her blood astir
And glittered in her eyes.
Vermeer's little girl, now famous
watches me. A pearl watches me.
The lips of Vermeer's little girl
are red, moist, and shining.
Oh Vermeer's little girl, oh pearl,
blue turban: you are all light
and I am made of shadow.
Light looks down on shadow
with forbearance, perhaps pity.
Translated by Renata Gorczynski
Anonymous submission.
Where do you go, girl,
when you fall asleep?
for even when we've spent a passion's time,
you, all woman and all animal,
and then drift gently into sleep
and I to watch you drift -
you're straight away a girl again.
Do you dream a girlhood's dearest dreams?
or roam a woman's world?
What girlhood's safe, safe place
do you retreat to
in your private sleep?
Was it when the only man to love
was your beloved father,
still recovering from a wartime's hangover
with alcohol - and your so fierce, despairing help?
Where do you go in sleep?
while I now watch  this unknown girl;
an upper lip that asks so innocently
to be kissed?
And lower lip that just so innocently
enjoys?
Where do you go, girl,
so far, so many years away from me?
Where do you go, girl?
World-weary girl,
Tears form in your eyes,
Confusion swirls
Like a virulent tornado
Around your heart,
Rending the fragile fabric of your soul,
I fear, irreparably apart.
I want to kiss your delicate face,
Gently touch your hair,
Reassure you I’m on your side,
Reassure you that I care.
World-weary girl,
Invite me into your life,
Help me understand your story
If we have to talk unceasingly
Through the dark and lonely night.
I believe in your struggle,
And I’ll send sympathetic prayers into the universe
Until I know the dawn of a new embrace
Has brought you into the arms
Of an indisputable and transforming love.
So, watch this space
there will be more,
and, just in case
others adore
the one who is
by way of soul
in this small quiz
her luscious whole.
I shall reveal
in time that's due.
I broke the seal
only for you.
Your world is fragile glass
Every day breaking like bones
Against the heartless pavement
Of this dingy city where dreams disappear
In the blink of an eye
Like a thousand species
Growing extinct
In the dying rainforest.
Divorce and disintegrating family life
Stole from you a happy childhood
With the malicious hands
Of a marauding thief,
You were never a little girl.
Next time I see you
Stranded on some dirty street
In the hopeless dawn
With no fuel in your tank
To get back home,
Take my twenty free,
I won’t bother you for sex.
Wilt thou forgive that sin where I begun,
Which was my sin, though it were done before?
Wilt thou forgive that sin, through which I run,
And do run still, though still I do deplore?
When thou hast done, thou hast not done,
For I have more.
Wilt thou forgive that sin which I have won
Others to sin, and made my sin their door?
Wilt thou forgive that sin which I did shun
A year or two, but wallow'd in, a score?
When thou hast done, thou hast not done,
For I have more.
I have a sin of fear, that when I have spun
My last thread, I shall perish on the shore;
But swear by thyself, that at my death thy Son
Shall shine as he shines now, and heretofore;
And, having done that, thou hast done;
I fear no more.
All roads that lead to God are good.
What matters it, your faith, or mine?
Both centre at the goal divine
Of love’s eternal Brotherhood.
The kindly life in house or street –
The life of prayer and mystic rite –
The student’s search for truth and light –
These paths at one great Junction meet.
Before the oldest book was writ,
Full many a prehistoric soul
Arrived at this unchanging goal,
Through changeless Love, that leads to it.
What matters that one found his Christ
In rising sun, or burning fire?
In faith within him did not tire,
His longing for the Truth sufficed.
Before our modern hell was brought
To edify the modern world,
Full many a hate-filled soul was hurled
In lakes of fire by its own thought.
A thousand creeds have come and gone,
But what is that to you or me?
Creeds are but branches of a tree –
The root of love lives on and on.
Though branch by branch proved withered wood,
The root is warm with precious wine.
Then keep your faith, and leave me mine –
All roads that lead to God are good.
For all the mysteries, engines, instruments, wherewith the world is filled, which we are able to frame and use to thy glory.
For all the trades, variety of operations, cities, temples, streets, bridges, mariner's compass, admirable picture, sculpture, writing, printing, songs and music; wherewith the world is beautified and adorned.
Much more for the regent life,
And power of perception,
Which rules within.
That secret depth of fathomless consideration
That receives the information
Of all our senses,
That makes our centre equal to the heavens,
And comprehendeth in itself the magnitude of the world;
The involv'd mysteries
Of our common sense;
The inaccessible secret
Of perceptive fancy;
The repository and treasury
Of things that are past;
The presentation of things to come;
Thy name be glorified
For evermore.
....
O miracle
Of divine goodness!
O fire! O flame of zeal, and love, and joy!
Ev'n for our earthly bodies, hast thou created all things.
{ visible
All things { material
{ sensible
Animals,
Vegetables,
Minerals,< br>Bodies celestial,
Bodies terrestrial,
The four elements,
Volatile spirits,
Trees, herbs, and flowers,
The influences of heaven,
Clouds, vapors, wind,
Dew, rain, hail and snow,
Light and darkness, night and day,
The seasons of the year.
Springs, rivers, fountains, oceans,
Gold, silver, and precious stones.
Corn, wine, and oil,
The sun, moon, and stars,
Cities, nations, kingdoms.
And the bodies of men, the greatest treasures of all,
For each other.
What then, O Lord, hast thou intended for our
Souls, who givest to our bodies such glorious things!
Lord, thou hast given me a cell,
Wherein to dwell;
A little house, whose humble roof
Is weather proof;
Under the spars of which I lie
Both soft and dry;
Where thou, my chamber for to ward,
Hast set a guard
Of harmless thoughts, to watch and keep
Me, while I sleep.
Low is my porch, as is my fate;
Both void of state;
And yet the threshold of my door
Is worn by th' poor,
Who thither come, and freely get
Good words, or meat.
Like as my parlour, so my hall
And kitchen's small;
A little buttery, and therein
A little bin,
Which keeps my little loaf of bread
Unchipt, unflead;
Some brittle sticks of thorn or briar
Make me a fire,
Close by whose living coal I sit,
And glow like it.
Lord, I confess too, when I dine,
The pulse is thine,
And all those other bits that be
There placed by thee;
The worts, the purslain, and the mess
Of water-cress,
Which of thy kindness thou hast sent;
And my content
Makes those, and my beloved beet,
To be more sweet.
'Tis thou that crown'st my glittering hearth
With guiltless mirth,
And giv'st me wassail bowls to drink,
Spiced to the brink.
Lord, 'tis thy plenty-dropping hand
That soils my land,
And giv'st me, for my bushel sown,
Twice ten for one;
Thou mak'st my teeming hen to lay
Her egg each day;
Besides, my healthful ewes to bear
Me twins each year;
The while the conduits of my kine
Run cream, for wine:
All these, and better, thou dost send
Me, to this end,--
That I should render, for my part,
A thankful heart;
Which, fired with incense, I resign,
As wholly thine;
--But the acceptance, that must be,
My Christ, by Thee.
Here is the shadow of truth, for only the shadow is true.
And the line where the incoming swell from the sunset Pacific
First leans and staggers to break will tell all you need to know
About submarine geography, and your father's death rattle
Provides all biographical data required for the Who's Who of the dead.
I cannot recall what I started to tell you, but at least
I can say how night-long I have lain under the stars and
Heard mountains moan in their sleep.By daylight,
They remember nothing, and go about their lawful occasions
Of not going anywhere except in slow disintegration.At night
They remember, however, that there is something they cannot remember.
So moan.Theirs is the perfected pain of conscience that
Of forgetting the crime, and I hope you have not suffered it.I have.
I do not recall what had burdened my tongue, but urge you
To think on the slug's white belly, how sick-slick and soft,
On the hairiness of stars, silver, silver, while the silence
Blows like wind by, and on the sea's virgin bosom unveiled
To give suck to the wavering serpent of the moon; and,
In the distance, in plaza, piazza, place, platz, and square,
Boot heels, like history being born, on cobbles bang.
Everything seems an echo of something else.
And when, by the hair, the headsman held up the head
Of Mary of Scots, the lips kept on moving,
But without sound.The lips,
They were trying to say something very important.
But I had forgotten to mention an upland
Of wind-tortured stone white in darkness, and tall, but when
No wind, mist gathers, and once on the Sarré at midnight,
I watched the sheep huddling.Their eyes
Stared into nothingness.In that mist-diffused light their eyes
Were stupid and round like the eyes of fat fish in muddy water,
Or of a scholar who has lost faith in his calling.
Their jaws did not move.Shreds
Of dry grass, gray in the gray mist-light, hung
From the side of a jaw, unmoving.
You would think that nothing would ever again happen.
That may be a way to love God.
147
Bless God, he went as soldiers,
His musket on his breast—
Grant God, he charge the bravest
Of all the martial blest!
Please God, might I behold him
In epauletted white—
I should not fear the foe then—
I should not fear the fight!
“There, but for the grace of God, goes…”
There is a question that I ask,
And ask again:
What hunger was half-hidden by the mask
That he wore then?
There was a word for me to say
That I said not;
And in the past there was another day
That I forgot:
A dreary, cold, unwholesome day,
Racked overhead,—
As if the world were turning the wrong way,
And the sun dead:
A day that comes back well enough
Now he is gone.
What then? Has memory no other stuff
To seize upon?
Wherever he may wander now
In his despair,
Would he be more contented in the slough
If all were there?
And yet he brought a kind of light
Into the room;
And when he left, a tinge of something bright
Survived the gloom.
Why will he not be where he is,
And not with me?
The hours that are my life are mine, not his,—
Or used to be.
What numerous imps invisible
Has he at hand,
Far-flying and forlorn as what they tell
At his command?
What hold of weirdness or of worth
Can he possess,
That he may speak from anywhere on earth
His loneliness?
Shall I be caught and held again
In the old net?—
He brought a sorry sunbeam with him then,
But it beams yet.
Can God? God can!
Can God? God can!
Can God? God can!
Do the impossible.
Will God? God will!
Will God? God will!
Will God? God will!
Do the impossible.
Has God? God Has!
Has God? God Has!
Has God? God Has!
Done the impossible.
'My sheep hear My voice'
Christ did say, 'and I know them
and they follow Me'
(John 10: 1-29)
< br>© 2011
That lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go;
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.
There are only two possibilities
God the result of imagination
Or God the Lord over all creation
With supernatural abilities
Considering the liabilities
The former, a finite observation
The latter, spirit rejuvenation
With its infinite capabilities
Choosing the former one has to reason
What's wanted is some final solution
An end to it all with no life ahead
I choose the latter for a new season
Trusting in God as my resolution
Gaining promised eternal life instead
© 2011
That my heart was right with thee,
And lov'd thee with a perfect love!
O that my Lord would dwell in me,
And never from his seat remove!
Jesus, remove th' impending load,
And set my soul on fire for God!
Thou seest I dwell in awful night
Until thou in my heart appear;
Kindle the flame, O Lord, and light
Thine everlasting candle there:
Thy presence puts the shadows by;
If thou art gone, how dark am I!
Ah! Lord, how should thy servant see,
Unless thou give me seeing eyes?
Well may I fall, if out of thee;
If out of thee, how should I rise?
I wander, Lord, without thy aid,
And lose my way in midnight's shade.
Thy bright, unerring light afford,
A light that gives the sinner hope;
And from the house of bondage, Lord,
O bring the weary captive up,
Thine hand alone can set me free
And reach my pardon out to me.
O let my prayer acceptance find,
And bring the mighty blessing down;
With eye-salve, Lord, anoint the blind,
And seal me thine adopted son:
A fallen, helpless creature take,
And heir of thy salvation make.
Of old our father's God was real,
Something they almost saw,
Which kept them to a stern ideal
And scourged them into awe.
They walked the narrow path of right
Most vigilantly well,
Because they feared eternal night
And boiling depths of Hell.
Now Hell has wholly boiled away
And God become a shade.
There is no place for him to stay
In all the world He made.
The followers of William James
Still let the Lord exist,
And call Him by imposing names,
A venerable list.
But nerve and muscle only count,
Gray matter of the brain,
And an astonishing amount
Of inconvenient pain.
I sometimes wish that God were back
In this dark world and wide;
For though sonic virtues He might lack,
He had his pleasant side.
FLOWER god, god of the spring, beautiful, bountiful,
Cold-dyed shield in the sky, lover of versicles,
Here I wander in April
Cold, grey-headed; and still to my
Heart, Spring comes with a bound, Spring the deliverer,
Spring, song-leader in woods, chorally resonant;
Spring, flower-planter in meadows,
Child-conductor in willowy
Fields deep dotted with bloom, daisies and crocuses:
Here that child from his heart drinks of eternity:
O child, happy are children!
She still smiles on their innocence,
She, dear mother in God, fostering violets,
Fills earth full of her scents, voices and violins:
Thus one cunning in music
Wakes old chords in the memory:
Thus fair earth in the Spring leads her performances.
One more touch of the bow, smell of the virginal
Green - one more, and my bosom
Feels new life with an ecstasy.
God and the soldier
All men adore
In time of trouble,
And no more;
For when war is over
And all things righted,
God is neglected -
The old soldier slighted.
A nasty surprise in a sandwich,
A drawing-pin caught in your sock,
The limpest of shakes from a hand which
You'd thought would be firm as a rock,
A serious mistake in a nightie,
A grave disappointment all round
Is all that you'll get from th'Almighty,
Is all that you'll get underground.
Oh he said: 'If you lay off the crumpet
I'll see you alright in the end.
Just hang on until the last trumpet.
Have faith in me, chum-I'm your friend.'
But if you remind him, he'll tell you:
'I'm sorry, I must have been pissed-
Though your name rings a sort of a bell. You
Should have guessed that I do not exist.
'I didn't exist at Creation,
I didn't exist at the Flood,
And I won't be around for Salvation
To sort out the sheep from the cud-
'Or whatever the phrase is. The fact is
In soteriological terms
I'm a crude existential malpractice
And you are a diet of worms.
'You're a nasty surprise in a sandwich.
You're a drawing-pin caught in my sock.
You're the limpest of shakes from a hand which
I'd have thought would be firm as a rock,
'You're a serious mistake in a nightie,
You're a grave disappointment all round-
That's all you are, ' says th'Almighty,
'And that's all that you'll be underground.'
1983
God bless our native land,
Land of the newly free,
Oh may she ever stand
For truth and liberty.
God bless our native land,
Where sleep our kindred dead,
Let peace at thy command
Above their graves be shed.
God help our native land,
Bring surcease to her strife,
And shower from thy hand
A more abundant life.
God bless our native land,
Her homes and children bless,
Oh may she ever stand
For truth and righteousness.
I towered far, and lo! I stood within
The presence of the Lord Most High,
Sent thither by the sons of earth, to win
Some answer to their cry.
--"The Earth, say'st thou? The Human race?
By Me created? Sad its lot?
Nay: I have no remembrance of such place:
Such world I fashioned not." -
--"O Lord, forgive me when I say
Thou spak'st the word, and mad'st it all." -
"The Earth of men--let me bethink me . . . Yea!
I dimly do recall
"Some tiny sphere I built long back
(Mid millions of such shapes of mine)
So named . . . It perished, surely--not a wrack
Remaining, or a sign?
"It lost my interest from the first,
My aims therefor succeeding ill;
Haply it died of doing as it durst?" -
"Lord, it existeth still." -
"Dark, then, its life! For not a cry
Of aught it bears do I now hear;
Of its own act the threads were snapt whereby
Its plaints had reached mine ear.
"It used to ask for gifts of good,
Till came its severance self-entailed,
When sudden silence on that side ensued,
And has till now prevailed.
"All other orbs have kept in touch;
Their voicings reach me speedily:
Thy people took upon them overmuch
In sundering them from me!
"And it is strange--though sad enough -
Earth's race should think that one whose call
Frames, daily, shining spheres of flawless stuff
Must heed their tainted ball! . . .
"But say'st thou 'tis by pangs distraught,
And strife, and silent suffering? -
Deep grieved am I that injury should be wrought
Even on so poor a thing!
"Thou should'st have learnt that Not to Mend
For Me could mean but Not to Know:
Hence, Messengers! and straightway put an end
To what men undergo." . . .
Homing at dawn, I thought to see
One of the Messengers standing by.
- Oh, childish thought! . . . Yet oft it comes to me
When trouble hovers nigh.
God-Full-of-Mercy, the prayer for the dead.
If God was not full of mercy,
Mercy would have been in the world,
Not just in Him.
I, who plucked flowers in the hills
And looked down into all the valleys,
I, who brought corpses down from the hills,
Can tell you that the world is empty of mercy.
I, who was King of Salt at the seashore,
Who stood without a decision at my window,
Who counted the steps of angels,
Whose heart lifted weights of anguish
In the horrible contests.
I, who use only a small part
Of the words in the dictionary.
I, who must decipher riddles
I don't want to decipher,
Know that if not for the God-full-of-mercy
There would be mercy in the world,
Not just in Him.
Translated from the Hebrew by Barbara and Benjamin Harshav
God gave a loaf to every bird,
But just a crumb to me;
I dare not eat it, though I starve,--
My poignant luxury
To own it, touch it, prove the feat
That made the pellet mine,--
Too happy in my sparrow chance
For ampler coveting.
It might be famine all around,
I could not miss an ear,
Such plenty smiles upon my board,
My garner shows so fair.
I wonder how the rich may feel,--
An Indiaman--an Earl?
I deem that I with but a crumb
Am sovereign of them all.
GOD gave to me a child in part,
Yet wholly gave the father's heart:
Child of my soul, O whither now,
Unborn, unmothered, goest thou?
You came, you went, and no man wist;
Hapless, my child, no breast you kist;
On no dear knees, a privileged babbler, clomb,
Nor knew the kindly feel of home.
My voice may reach you, O my dear-
A father's voice perhaps the child may hear;
And, pitying, you may turn your view
On that poor father whom you never knew.
Alas! alone he sits, who then,
Immortal among mortal men,
Sat hand in hand with love, and all day through
With your dear mother wondered over you.
From the depth of slumber,
As I ascend the spiral stairway of wakefulness,
I whisper
God, God, God!
Thou art the food and when I break my fast
Of nightly separation from Thee
I taste thee and mentally say
God, God, God!
No matter where I go, the spotlight of my mind
Ever keeps turning on Thee;
And in the battle dim of activity my silent war cry
Is ever;
God, God, God!
When boisterous storms of trials shriek
And worries howl at me,
I drown their noises, loudly chanting
God, God, God!
When my mind weaves dreams
With treads of memories,
Then on that magic cloth I do emboss;
God, God, God!
Ever night, in time of deepest sleep,
My peace dreams and calls; Joy! Joy! Joy!
And my Joy comes singing evermore;
God, God, God!
In waking, eating, working, dreaming, sleeping,
Serving, meditating, chanting, divinely loving,
My soul constantly hums, unheard by any;
God, God, God!
God has pity on kindergarten children,
He pities school children -- less.
But adults he pities not at all.
He abandons them,
And sometimes they have to crawl on all fours
In the scorching sand
To reach the dressing station,
Streaming with blood.
But perhaps
He will have pity on those who love truly
And take care of them
And shade them
Like a tree over the sleeper on the public bench.
Perhaps even we will spend on them
Our last pennies of kindness
Inherited from mother,
So that their own happiness will protect us
Now and on other days.
A degree is not a measure of writing,
A degree is not the knowledge,
Through degree a person gets a job
Through job he earns money,
A degree does not make a man
Educator or expert although we tell so,
Money does not make good human being.
Through money we can get only inventions.
Values and morality we cannot buy from market,
Righteousness cannot be purchased at all,
When we keep our mind in God and trust,
We receive his positive vibrations,
Through long spiritual perseverance
A man gains values and righteousness.
Educator is he, who is full of knowledge,
Boss is he, who has full control
Over this entire creation we feel,
Expert is he, who is very knowledgeable,
If people laugh billions of times
Truth is not going to change,
Fire never becomes water if people laugh
And water never becomes fire,
Force of Gravitation does not change
Even if people laugh or try to change,
Law of action does not change,
All laws of universe work perfectly.
God is boss of creation and poetry,
God is full of knowledge
He is the only educator and expert,
No one can be like him at all,
God's lovers know him very well,
You cannot defame God by any means
A son cannot defame his own father,
God is our and your eternal father,
If a son defames his own father
He falls in severe sin and hell,
But our father is very merciful
He redeems all from hell and sin!
Being educator God teaches us values,
Being expert he guides us in pure language,
Being boss of all things and poetry,
God commands us to have righteousness,
A right path we should chose always!
God's path is right path of knowledge.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,14 February 2019. All rights reserved.
GOD Lyaeus, ever young,
Ever honour'd, ever sung,
Stain'd with blood of lusty grapes,
In a thousand lusty shapes
Dance upon the mazer's brim,
In the crimson liquor swim;
From thy plenteous hand divine
Let a river run with wine:
God of youth, let this day here
Enter neither care nor fear.
442
God made a little Gentian—
It tried—to be a Rose—
And failed—and all the Summer laughed—
But just before the Snows
There rose a Purple Creature—
That ravished all the Hill—
And Summer hid her Forehead—
And Mockery—was still—
The Frosts were her condition—
The Tyrian would not come
Until the North—invoke it—
Creator—Shall I—bloom?
God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform;
He plants His footsteps in the sea,
And rides upon the storm.
Deep in unfathomable mines
Of never-failing skill
He treasures up His bright designs,
And works His sovereign will.
Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take,
The clouds ye so much dread
Are big with mercy, and shall break
In blessings on your head.
Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,
But trust Him for His grace;
Behind a frowning providence
He hides a smiling face.
His purposes will ripen fast,
Unfolding every hour;
The bud may have a bitter taste,
But sweet will be the flower.
Blind unbelief is sure to err,
And scan his work in vain;
God is His own interpreter,
And He will make it plain.
God of love, whose truth and grace
Reach unbounded as the skies,
Hear thy creature's feeble praise,
Let my ev'ning sacrifice
Mount as incense to thy throne,
On the merits of thy Son.
Me thy providence has led
Through another busy day:
Over me thy wings were spread,
Chasing sin and death away:
Thou hast been my faithful shield,
Thou my footsteps hast upheld.
Tho' the sable veil of night
Hides the cheering face of heav'n,
Let me triumph in the sight
Of my guilt in thee forgiv'n.
In my heart the witness feel,
See the great invisible.
I will lay me down to sleep,
Sweetly take my rest in thee,
Ev'ry moment brought a step
Nearer to eternity:
I shall soon from earth ascend,
Quickly reach my journey's end.
All my sins imputed were
To my dear, incarnate God;
Bury'd in his grave they are,
Drown'd in his atoning blood:
Me thou wilt not now condemn,
Righteous and complete in him.
In the Saviour's right I claim
All the blessings he hath bought;
For my soul the dying Lamb
Hath a full redemption wrought;
Heaven through his desert is mine;
Christ's I am, and Christ is mine!
God of mercy, God of grace,
Show the brightness of Thy face:
Shine upon us, Saviour, shine,
Fill Thy church with light Divine;
And Thy saving health extend,
Unto earth's remotest end.
Let Thy people praise Thee, Lord;
Be by all that live adored;
Let the nations shout and sing,
Glory to their Saviour King;
At Thy feet their tributes pay,
And Thy holy will obey.
Let the people praise Thee, Lord;
Earth shall then her fruits afford;
God to man His blessing give,
Man to God devoted live;
All below, and all above,
One in joy, and light, and love.
I
Thou who hast made thy dwelling fair
With flowers beneath, above with starry lights,
And set thine altars everywhere,--
On mountain heights,
In woodlands dim with many a dream,
In valleys bright with springs,
And on the curving capes of every stream:
Thou who hast taken to thyself the wings
Of morning, to abide
Upon the secret places of the sea,
And on far islands, where the tide
Visits the beauty of untrodden shores,
Waiting for worshippers to come to thee
In thy great out-of-doors!
To thee I turn, to thee I make my prayer,
God of the open air.
II
Seeking for thee, the heart of man
Lonely and longing ran,
In that first, solitary hour,
When the mysterious power
To know and love the wonder of the morn
Was breathed within him, and his soul was born;
And thou didst meet thy child,
Not in some hidden shrine,
But in the freedom of the garden wild,
And take his hand in thine,--
There all day long in Paradise he walked,
And in the cool of evening with thee talked.
III
Lost, long ago, that garden bright and pure,
Lost, that calm day too perfect to endure,
And lost the childlike love that worshipped and was sure!
For men have dulled their eyes with sin,
And dimmed the light of heaven with doubt,
And built their temple walls to shut thee in,
And framed their iron creeds to shut thee out.
But not for thee the closing of the door,
O Spirit unconfined!
Thy ways are free
As is the wandering wind,
And thou hast wooed thy children, to restore
Their fellowship with thee,
In peace of soul and simpleness of mind.
IV
Joyful the heart that, when the flood rolled by,
Leaped up to see the rainbow in the sky;
And glad the pilgrim, in the lonely night,
For whom the hills of Haran, tier on tier,
Built up a secret stairway to the height
Where stars like angel eyes were shining clear.
From mountain-peaks, in many a land and age,
Disciples of the Persian seer
Have hailed the rising sun and worshipped thee;
And wayworn followers of the Indian sage
Have found the peace of God beneath a spreading tree.
But One, but One,--ah, child most dear,
And perfect image of the Love Unseen,--
Walked every day in pastures green,
And all his life the quiet waters by,
Reading their beauty with a tranquil eye.
To him the desert was a place prepared
For weary hearts to rest;
The hillside was a temple blest;
The grassy vale a banquet-room
Where he could feed and comfort many a guest.
With him the lily shared
The vital joy that breathes itself in bloom;
And every bird that sang beside the nest
Told of the love that broods o'er every living thing.
He watched the shepherd bring
His flock at sundown to the welcome fold,
The fisherman at daybreak fling
His net across the waters gray and cold,
And all day long the patient reaper swing
His curving sickle through the harvest-gold.
So through the world the foot-path way he trod,
Drawing the air of heaven in every breath;
And in the evening sacrifice of death
Beneath the open sky he gave his soul to God.
Him will I trust, and for my Master take;
Him will I follow; and for his dear sake,
God of the open air,
To thee I make my prayer.
V
>From the prison of anxious thought that greed has builded,
>From the fetters that envy has wrought and pride has gilded,
>From the noise of the crowded ways and the fierce confusion,
>From the folly that wastes its days in a world of illusion,
(Ah, but the life is lost that frets and languishes there!)
I would escape and be free in the joy of the open air.
By the breadth of the blue that shines in silence o'er me,
By the length of the mountain-lines that stretch before me,
By the height of the cloud that sails, with rest in motion,
Over the plains and the vales to the measureless ocean,
(Oh, how the sight of the things that are great enlarges the eyes!)
Lead me out of the narrow life, to the peace of the hills
and the skies.
While the tremulous leafy haze on the woodland is spreading,
And the bloom on the meadow betrays where May has been treading;
While the birds on the branches above, and the brooks flowing under,
Are singing together of love in a world full of wonder,
(Lo, in the marvel of Springtime, dreams are changed into truth!)
Quicken my heart, and restore the beautiful hopes of youth.
By the faith that the flowers show when they bloom unbidden,
By the calm of the river's flow to a goal that is hidden,
By the trust of the tree that clings to its deep foundation,
By the courage of wild birds' wings on the long migration,
(Wonderful secret of peace that abides in Nature's breast!)
Teach me how to confide, and live my life, and rest.
For the comforting warmth of the sun that my body embraces,
For the cool of the waters that run through the shadowy places,
For the balm of the breezes that brush my face with their fingers,
For the vesper-hymn of the thrush when the twilight lingers,
For the long breath, the deep breath, the breath
of a heart without care,--
I will give thanks and adore thee, God of the open air!
VI
These are the gifts I ask
Of thee, Spirit serene:
Strength for the daily task,
Courage to face the road,
Good cheer to help me bear the traveller's load,
And, for the hours of rest that come between,
An inward joy in all things heard and seen.
These are the sins I fain
Would have thee take away:
Malice, and cold disdain,
Hot anger, sullen hate,
Scorn of the lowly, envy of the great,
And discontent that casts a shadow gray
On all the brightness of the common day.
These are the things I prize
And hold of dearest worth:
Light of the sapphire skies,
Peace of the silent hills,
Shelter of forests, comfort of the grass,
Music of birds, murmur of little rills,
Shadow of clouds that swiftly pass,
And, after showers,
The smell of flowers
And of the good brown earth,--
And best of all, along the way, friendship and mirth.
So let me keep
These treasures of the humble heart
In true possession, owning them by love;
And when at last I can no longer move
Among them freely, but must part
From the green fields and from the waters clear,
Let me not creep
Into some darkened room and hide
From all that makes the world so bright and dear;
But throw the windows wide
To welcome in the light;
And while I clasp a well-beloved hand,
Let me once more have sight
Of the deep sky and the far-smiling land,--
Then gently fall on sleep,
And breathe my body back to Nature's care,
My spirit out to thee, God of the open air.
God permit industrious angels
Afternoons to play.
I met one, -- forgot my school-mates,
All, for him, straightaway.
God calls home the angels promptly
At the setting sun;
I missed mine. How dreary marbles,
After playing the Crown!
In his malodorous brain what slugs and mire,
Lanthorned in his oblique eyes, guttering burned!
His body lodged a rat where men nursed souls.
The world flashed grape-green eyes of a foiled cat
To him. On fragments of an old shrunk power,
On shy and maimed, on women wrung awry,
He lay, a bullying hulk, to crush them more.
But when one, fearless, turned and clawed like bronze,
Cringing was easy to blunt these stern paws,
And he would weigh the heavier on those after.
Who rests in God's mean flattery now? Your wealth
Is but his cunning to make death more hard.
Your iron sinews take more pain in breaking.
And he has made the market for your beauty
Too poor to buy, although you die to sell.
Only that he has never heard of sleep;
And when the cats come out the rats are sly.
Here we are safe till he slinks in at dawn
But he has gnawed a fibre from strange roots,
And in the morning some pale wonder ceases.
Things are not strange and strange things are forgetful.
Ah! if the day were arid, somehow lost
Out of us, but it is as hair of us,
And only in the hush no wind stirs it.
And in the light vague trouble lifts and breathes,
And restlessness still shadows the lost ways.
The fingers shut on voices that pass through,
Where blind farewells are taken easily ....
Ah! this miasma of a rotting God!
THOUGHT of the Infinite--the All!
Be thou my God.
Lover Divine, and Perfect Comrade!
Waiting, content, invisible yet, but certain,
Be thou my God.
Thou--thou, the Ideal Man!
Fair, able, beautiful, content, and loving,
Complete in Body, and dilate in Spirit,
Be thou my God.
O Death--(for Life has served its turn;)                           10
Opener and usher to the heavenly mansion!
Be thou my God.
Aught, aught, of mightiest, best, I see, conceive, or know,
(To break the stagnant tie--thee, thee to free, O Soul,)
Be thou my God.
Or thee, Old Cause, when'er advancing;
All great Ideas, the races' aspirations,
All that exalts, releases thee, my Soul!
All heroisms, deeds of rapt enthusiasts,
Be ye my Gods!                                                     20
Or Time and Space!
Or shape of Earth, divine and wondrous!
Or shape in I myself--or some fair shape, I, viewing, worship,
Or lustrous orb of Sun, or star by night:
Be ye my Gods.
God scatters beauty as he scatters flowers
O'er the wide earth, and tells us all are ours.
A hundred lights in every temple burn,
And at each shrine I bend my knee in turn.
Hallowed be Thy name
Hallowed be Thy name we do proclaim
Blessed be Thy sacred name
Hallowed be Thy name
Our Father who art in heaven
Hallowed be Thy name
Thy Kingdom come Thy will be done
On Earth as in Heaven the same
Hallowed be Thy name
Hallowed be Thy name we do proclaim
Blessed be Thy sacred name
Hallowed be Thy name
Give us this day our daily bread
And forgive us our shame
As we forgive those whose trespasses
Done unto us came
Hallowed be Thy name
Hallowed be Thy name we do proclaim
Blessed be Thy sacred name
Hallowed be Thy name
And lead us not into temptation
But deliver us from blame
For Thine is the kingdom and the power
And the glory's fame
Hallowed be Thy name
Hallowed be Thy name we do proclaim
Blessed be Thy sacred name
Hallowed be Thy name
© 2011
O great heart of God,
Once vague and lost to me,
Why do I throb with your throb to-night,
In this land, eternity?
O little heart of God,
Sweet intruding stranger,
You are laughing in my human breast,
A Christ-child in a manger.
Heart, dear heart of God,
Beside you now I kneel,
Strong heart of faith. O heart not mine,
Where God has set His seal.
Wild thundering heart of God
Out of my doubt I come,
And my foolish feet with prophets' feet,
March with the prophets' drum.
I would to God, that mine old age might have
Before my last, but here a living grave;
Some one poor almshouse, there to lie, or stir,
Ghost-like, as in my meaner sepulchre;
A little piggin, and a pipkin by,
To hold things fitting my necessity,
Which, rightly us'd, both in their time and place,
Might me excite to fore, and after, grace.
Thy cross, my Christ, fix'd 'fore mine eyes should be,
Not to adore that, but to worship Thee.
So here the remnant of my days I'd spend,
Reading Thy bible, and my book; so end.
Wilt thou love God, as he thee? then digest,
My Soule, this wholsome meditation,
How God the Spirit, by Angels waited on
In heaven, doth make his Temple in thy brest.
The Father having begot a Sonne most blest,
And still begetting, (for he ne'r begonne)
Hath deign'd to chuse thee by adoption,
Coheire to his glory, and Sabbaths endlesse rest;
And as a robb'd man, which by search doth finde
His stolne stuffe sold, must lose or buy it againe;
The Sonne of glory came downe, and was slaine,
Us whom he had made, and Satan stolne, to unbinde.
'Twas much, that man was made like God before,
But, that God should be made like man, much more.
God, the offended God most high,
Ambassadors to rebels sends;
His messengers his place supply,
And Jesus begs us to be friends.
Us, in the stead of Christ, they pray,
Us, in the stead of God, intreat,
To cast our arms, our sins, away,
And find forgiveness at his feet.
Our God in Christ! thine embassy,
And proffered mercy, we embrace;
And gladly reconciled to thee,
Thy condescending goodness praise.
Poor debtors, by our Lord's request
A full acquittance we receive!
And criminals, with pardon blest,
We, at our Judge's instance, live!
Ye thirsty for God, To Jesus give ear,
And take, through his blood, A power to draw near;
His kind invitation Ye sinners embrace,
Accepting salvation, Salvation by grace.
Sent down from above, Who governs the skies,
In vehement love To sinners he cries,
Drink into my Spirit, Who happy would be,
And all things inherit By coming to me.
O Saviour of all, Thy word we believe!
And come at thy call, Thy grace to receive;
The blessing is given Wherever thou art.
The earnest of heaven Is love in the heart.
To us at thy feet The Comforter give,
Who gasp to admit Thy Spirit, and live;
The weakest believers Acknowledge for thine,
And fill us with rivers Of water divine.
Since I am coming to that holy room,
Where, with thy choir of saints for evermore,
I shall be made thy music; as I come
I tune the instrument here at the door,
And what I must do then, think here before.
Whilst my physicians by their love are grown
Cosmographers, and I their map, who lie
Flat on this bed, that by them may be shown
That this is my south-west discovery,
[lang l]Per fretum febris[lang e], by these straits to die,
I joy, that in these straits I see my west;
For, though their currents yield return to none,
What shall my west hurt me? As west and east
In all flat maps (and I am one)  are one,
So death doth touch the resurrection.
Is the Pacific Sea my home? Or are
The eastern riches? Is Jerusalem?
Anyan, and Magellan, and Gibraltar,
All straits, and none but straits, are ways to them,
Whether where Japhet dwelt, or Cham, or Shem.
We think that Paradise and Calvary,
Christ's cross, and Adam's tree, stood in one place;
Look, Lord, and find both Adams met in me;
As the first Adam's sweat surrounds my face,
May the last Adam's blood my soul embrace.
So, in his purple wrapp'd, receive me, Lord;
By these his thorns, give me his other crown;
And as to others' souls I preach'd thy word,
Be this my text, my sermon to mine own:
'Therefore that he may raise, the Lord throws down.'
The kingdom of God is within you
O world invisible, we view thee,
O world intangible, we touch thee,
O world unknowable, we know thee,
Inapprehensible, we clutch thee!
Does the fish soar to find the ocean,
The eagle plunge to find the air-
That we ask of the stars in motion
If they have rumor of thee there?
Not where the wheeling systems darken,
And our benumbed conceiving soars! -
The drift of pinions, would we hearken,
Beats at our own clay-shuttered doors.
The angels keep their ancient places-
Turn but a stone and start a wing!
'Tis ye, 'tis your estrangèd faces,
That miss the many-splendored thing.
But (when so sad thou canst not sadder)
Cry- and upon thy so sore loss
Shall shine the traffic of Jacob's ladder
Pitched betwixt Heaven and Charing Cross.
Yea, in the night, my Soul, my daughter,
Cry- clinging to Heaven by the hems;
And lo, Christ walking on the water,
Not of Genesareth, but Thames!
I sometimes wonder if the mighty God
Cares aught about the little deeds of men;
And if their day and time can reach his ken
Or raise their breath above the hungry sod.
Does He who lightly holds th' eternal rod,
Now taut, now loose, the threads of Why and When?
Giving passing heed--or be they one or ten--
To one-time flesh but now the wind-blown clod?
If men can die who never yet knew life,
And, smiling, hold it is no strange affair;
Or live when death were welcome boon of strife,
Torn, broken sheaves the ghostly reapers spare;
The saints must grieve for earthly sorrows rife,
And God must heed, yea surely, God must care.
One may ask, 'Is there a God? '
For me there can be no doubt
'Cause I learned His sacred name
And in anger cursed it out
God said in His commandments
To honor His sacred name
And to those who broke that law
He would hold them to the blame
The Lord graciously forgives
Is a fact that I do know
While I bear the punishment
I rightly earned long ago
He alleviates symptoms
That from my illness flow
Thank You very much for Your Blessing!
< br>© 2011
God God God God God God God God God God God God
Waves of strength
Surging in You and Me
That is God, That is God
Stream of compassion
Flowing in You and Me
That is God, That is God
Trembling consciousness
Quivering in You and Me
That is God, That is God
Creative juices
Flowing in You and Me
That is God, That is God
Undying Spirit
Burning in You and Me
That is God, That is God
Throbbing Heart
Overflowing with love in You and Me
That is God, That is God
Know God
Trust God.
When you pray
And it seems
That God is not
Answering your prayer.
Think on His ways
How He wants you empowered.
How He wants you spiritually blessed.
Know God
Trust God.
Remember He loves YOU.
And your adequacy
To know how
He chooses to bless
And answer your prayer.
Is so far
Beyond your comprehension.
Know God
Trust God.
God always answers you
Better than you know
How to ask.
Your asking is never equivalent
To His answering.
For His answering
Is always beyond your request.
Know God
Trust God.
His blessings are always
A continuance to your prosperity.
You may ask for one thing
But God wants you fulfilled
He gives you two.
To multiply anything of itself
Gains you nothing.
Know God
Trust God.
For in search of His answers
You may find the blessing
You hoped for
And the one you really wanted.
But then look again
You will find the very thing
Which was all you really needed.
Know God
Trust God.
God always blesses us
Beyond what we ask.
For neither we the intelligence
Nor the aptitude
To even guess
What He will do for you.
Late came the God, having sent his forerunners who were
not regarded--
Late, but in wrath;
Saying: "The wrong shall be paid, the contempt be rewarded
On all that she hath."
He poisoned the blade and struck home, the full bosom receiving
The wound and the venom in one, past cure or relieving.
He made treaty with Time to stand still that the grief might
be fresh--
Daily renewed and nightly pursued through her soul to her
flesh--
Mornings of memory, noontides of agony, midnights unslaked
for her,
Till the stones of the streets of her Hells and her Paradise ached
for her.
So she lived while her body corrupted upon her.
And she called on the Night for a sign, and a Sign was allowed,
And she builded an Altar and served by the light of her Vision--
Alone, without hope of regard or reward, but uncowed,
Resolute, selfless, divine.
These things she did in Love's honour...
What is a God beside Woman? Dust and derision!
Love is God and God is love
"Love is God and God is love" all may say
I found no name that actually professed these words to lay
I bow my head to preachers who really follow the spirit
And guide the masses to bow their head and touch the feet
It has become customary and now a show business
Visit temple, mosque or church in order to confess
It is good on the part of human being to obey
And learn the teachings by heart and pray
Many may be seriously praying for universal happiness
So many may be secretly donating for the serious cases
Yet the genuine concern occupies the religion centers
As they have to rush to the needy poor to cater
All said and not done in true essence
We swear by God but speak lies in his presence
We only object blasphemy but in real life act contrary
General awareness with staunch followers is necessary
I weep with tears when see the Christ on cross
What a feeling in mind with complete remorse
Why did we commit cruelty when He was our messiah?
I feel great when hear churches bell ring or hear the name of Allah
I may be illiterate in literally terms
It will be of no use to look at holy book to turn
The writing may cut little in my mind
Yet I know it is great message from him to find
What has he not done for mankind as whole?
Tolerated all cruelties and found body with holes
"Give them some sense not to repeat ills"
I shall not deviate from my path even if they kill
Such a saint or God is not among us
But his spirit prevails in form of trust
We believe each and every word
Cry with open mind and far of no sword
"He may guide us to nobility"
Make us capable and worthy
O supreme god and almighty
You are our savior, messiah or deity
Who hath constructed the elements
And their atoms' configuration?
Who hath designed every molecule
And shapes their chemical formation?
Who hath conceived the laws of nature
And completed their limitation?
Who hath set galaxies in motion
And did establish time's duration?
Who hath created every life form
And made conscious their domination?
Who hath set parameters on flesh
And gives spirit's continuation?
Who hath numbered the celestial stars
And sand of the sea computation?
Who hath multiplied Abraham's kin
And favored their many a nation?
It hath been Yehovah's creation
© 2011
Though with gods the world is cumbered,
Gods unnamed, and gods unnumbered,
Never god was known to be
Who had not his devotee.
So I dedicate to mine,
Here in verse, my temple-shrine.
‘Tis not Ares, - mighty Mars,
Who can give success in wars.
‘Tis not Morpheus, who doth keep
Guard above us while we sleep,
‘Tis not Venus, she whose duty
‘Tis to give us love and beauty;
Hail to these, and others, after
Momus, gleesome god of laughter.
Quirinus would guard my health,
Plutus would insure me wealth;
Mercury looks after trade,
Hera smiles on youth and maid.
All are kind, I own their worth,
After Momus, god of mirth.
Though Apollo, out of spite,
Hides away his face of light,
Though Minerva looks askance,
Deigning me no smiling glance,
Kings and queens may envy me
While I claim the god of glee.
Wisdom wearies, Love had wings –
Wealth makes burdens, Pleasure stings,
Glory proves a thorny crown –
So all gifts the gods throw down
Bring their pains and troubles after;
All save Momus, god of laughter.
He alone gives constant joy.
Hail to Momus, happy boy.
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
And I have my eyes fixed on him today
While I am walking to school
Because God is coming towards me
To greet me
And there is something going on with my mind
But I don't know what my mind is trying to tell me
Or if God is coming to give me a message
Or to walk with me to school
And to make sure that I am safe while I walk to school
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
He forgives everyone that sins here at home
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
He lives inside of my heart everyday
Because I made room for God inside of my heart
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
He will let the sun shine here at home every single day
And I look forward to the sun every single day
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
My God is an awesome God
Because he is the maker of heaven and earth
My God! O let me call Thee mine!
Weak wretched sinner though I be,
My trembling soul would fain be Thine,
My feeble faith still clings to Thee,
My feeble faith still clings to Thee.
Not only for the past I grieve,
The future fills me with dismay;
Unless Thou hasten to relieve,
I know my heart will fall away,
I know my heart will fall away.
I cannot say my faith is strong,
I dare not hope my love is great;
But strength and love to Thee belong,
O, do not leave me desolate!
O, do not leave me desolate!
I know I owe my all to Thee,
O, take this heart I cannot give.
Do Thou my Strength my Saviour be;
And make me to Thy glory live!
And make me to Thy glory live!
I thirst, but not as once I did,
The vain delights of earth to share;
Thy wounds, Emmanuel, all forbid
That I should seek my pleasures there.
It was the sight of Thy dear cross
First wean'd my soul from earthly things;
And taught me to esteem as dross
The mirth of fools and pomp of kings.
I want that grace that springs from Thee,
That quickens all things where it flows,
And makes a wretched thorn like me
Bloom as the myrtle, or the rose.
Dear fountain of delight unknown!
No longer sink below the brim;
But overflow, and pour me down
A living and life-giving stream!
For sure of all the plants that share
The notice of thy Father's eye,
None proves less grateful to His care,
Or yields him meaner fruit than I.
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee!
E'en though it be a cross
That raiseth me:
Still all my song shall be
Nearer, my God! to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Though, like the wanderer,
The sun gone down,
Darkness be over me,
My rest a stone;
Yet in my dreams I'd be
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Then let the way appear
Steps unto heaven;
All that Thou sendest me
In mercy given:
Angels to beckon me
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Then with my waking thoughts
Bright with Thy praise,
Out of my stony griefs
Bethel I'll raise;
So by my woes to be
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Or if on joyful wing,
Cleaving the sky,
Sun, moon, and stars forgot,
Upward I fly:
Still all my song shall be,
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee.
Now, God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour,
And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move,
And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
And all the little emptiness of love!
Oh! we who have known shame, we have found release there,
Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending,
Nought broken save this body, lost but breath;
Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
But only agony, and that has ending;
And the worst friend and enemy is but Death.
O God! Thou art my God alone;
Early to Thee my soul shall cry;
A pilgrim in a land unknown,
A thirsty land whose springs are dry.
O that it were as it hath been,
When praying in the holy place,
Thy power and glory I have seen,
And marked the footsteps of thy grace.
Yet through this rough and thorny maze,
I follow hard on Thee, my God:
Thy hand unseen upholds my ways:
I safely tread where Thou hast trod.
Thee, in the watches of the night,
When I remember on my bed,
Thy presence makes the darkness light;
Thy guardian wings are round my head.
Better than life itself thy love,
Dearer than all beside to me;
For whom have I in heaven above,
Or what on earth, compared with Thee?
Praise with my heart, my mind, my voice,
For all thy mercy I will give:
My soul shall still in God rejoice,
My tongue shall bless Thee while I live.
Where are you? Our dear father,
We call you without sure bother.
Oh dear God you hear oh dear God,
Minds have gathered here to nod.
We observe everything is illusion,
Confusion takes us in mind fusion.
You are father you are true only,
In false streets we travel lonely.
Today we are here tomorrow we not
In lap of death sure life is caught.
We search you moving on here ever,
We go on working forget you never.
Oh God dear father you super light,
Spark soon in boon to make us bright.
It's not money that makes you evil
But the love of it that's wrong
Way back during times primeval
Lucifer became headstrong
And tried leading a great upheaval
One third following along
Oh God bless the seven thousand
Who were standing firm that day
Forever lend them a hand, give 'em strength to stand
And guidance in your way
God gave to sinners a reprieval
Until this earth age is done
And before the ages medieval
He sent His begotten Son
For all of His children's retrieval
Away from the wicked one
Oh God bless the many thousand
Who will come to Christ this day
Forever lend them a hand, give 'em strength to stand
And guidance in your way
© 2011
Of all the gods that gave me all their glories
To-day there deigns to walk with me but one.
I lead him by the hand and tell him stories.
It is the Queen of Cyprus' little son.
O Spirit of the living God,
In all Thy plenitude of grace,
Where’er the foot of man hath trod,
Descend on our apostate race.
Give tongues of fire and hearts of love
To preach the reconciling Word,
Give power and unction from above,
Whene’er the joyful sound is heard.
Be darkness, at Thy coming, light;
Confusion, order in Thy path;
Souls without strength inspire with might;
Bid mercy triumph over wrath.
O Spirit of the Lord, prepare
All the round earth her God to meet;
Breathe Thou abroad like morning air,
Till hearts of stone begin to beat.
Baptize the nations; far and nigh
The triumphs of the cross record;
The Name of Jesus glorify,
Till every kindred call Him Lord.
God from eternity hath willed
All flesh shall His salvation see:
So be the Father’s love fulfilled,
The Savior’s sufferings crowned through Thee.
God is our father, God is lover,
Go is our mother, God is life,
God is our breath, God is light,
God is super power, God is love.
We cannot live without him,
We adore him searching happiness.
God is our teacher, God is preacher,
He grants us to live here peacefully,
God is the creator of this garden,
This is Earth we say as nature shines.
God is professor of many scientists,
Super power he is of trillions of suns.
Great-great-great-many great universes
Trillions of trillions of trillions of such,
He has created by his power, no one can do,
Every soul is self luminous point of light,
Soul is his eternal son who shines like star,
Point to point we note his every word.
Our God is only one eternal God, the creator,
We have much love and respect for him ever,
He never misses and watches us on daily,
His administration is very strong and lovely,
God has made universal laws are truthful sure,
Many changes happen, his laws never change.
Eternal God gives us guidance and we obey,
He is super philosopher and infinite ocean,
He is infinite ocean of knowledge.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,31 August 2018. All rights reserved.
People of the living God,
I have sought the world around;
Paths of sin and sorrow trod,
Peace and comfort nowhere found:
Now to you my spirit turns—
Turns a fugitive unblest;
Brethren, where your altar burns,
Oh, receive me into rest.
Lonely I no longer roam
Like the cloud, the wind, the wave;
Where you dwell shall be my home,
Where you die shall be my grave;
Mine the God Whom you adore;
Your Redeemer shall be mine;
Earth can fill my soul no more—
Every idol I resign.
Tell me not of gain and loss,
Ease, enjoyment, pomp, and pow’r;
Welcome poverty and cross,
Shame reproach, affliction’s hour.
“Follow Me”—I know Thy voice;
Jesus, Lord, Thy steps I see;
Now I take Thy yoke by choice,
Light Thy burden now to me.
My God, how many are my fears!
How fast my foes increase!
Conspiring my eternal death,
They break my present peace.
The lying tempter would persuade
There's no relief from heaven;
And all my swelling sins appear
Too big to be forgiven.
But thou, my glory and my strength,
Shall on the tempter tread,
Shall silence all my threat'ning guilt,
And raise my drooping head.
I cried, and from his holy hill
He bowed a list'ning ear;
I called my Father, and my God,
And He subdued my fear.
He shed soft slumbers on mine eyes,
In spite of all my foes;
I woke, and wondered at the grace
That guarded my repose.
What through the hosts of death and hell
All armed against me stood,
Terrors no more shall shake my soul;
My refuge is my God.
Arise O Lord, fulfill thy grace,
While I thy glory sing;
My God has broke the serpent's teeth,
And death has lost his sting.
Salvation to the Lord belongs;
His arm alone can save:
Blessings attend thy people here,
And reach beyond the grave.
Great God, whose universal sway
The known and unknown worlds obey,
Now give the kingdom to thy Son,
Extend his power, exalt his throne.
The scepter well becomes his hands;
All heaven submits to his commands;
His justice shall avenge the poor,
And pride and rage prevail no more.
With power he vindicates the just,
And treads the oppressor in the dust:
His worship and his fear shall last
Till the full course of time be past.
As rain on meadows newly mown,
So shall he send his influence down:
His grace on fainting souls distils,
Like heavenly dew on thirsty hills.
The heathen lands, that lie beneath
The shades of overspreading death,
Revive at his first dawning light;
And deserts blossom at the sight.
The saints shall flourish in his days,
Decked in the robes of joy and praise;
Peace, like a river, from his throne
Shall flow to nations yet unknown.
Jesus shall reign where'er the Sun
Doth his successive journeys run;
His kingdom stretch from shore to shore,
Till suns shall rise and set no more.
For him shall endless prayer be made,
And praises throng to crown his head;
His name like sweet perfume shall rise
With every morning sacrifice.
People and realms of every tongue
Dwell on his love with sweetest song;
And infant voices shall proclaim
Their young Hosannas to his name.
Blessings abound where'er he reigns;
The prisoner leaps to lose his chains;
The weary find eternal rest;
And all the sons of want are blest.
Where he displays his healing power,
Death and the curse are known no more:
In him the tribes of Adam boast
More blessings than their father lost.
Let every creature rise, and bring
Its grateful honors to our King;
Angels descend with songs again,
And earth prolong the joyful strain.
Will God for ever east us off?
His wrath for ever smoke
Against the people of' his love,
His little chosen flock?
Think of the tribes so dearly bought
With their Redeemer's blood;
Nor let thy Zion be forgot,
Where once thy glory stood.
Lift up thy feet and march in haste,
Aloud our ruin calls;
See what a wide and fearful waste
Is made within thy walls.
Where once thy churches prayed and sang,
Thy foes profanely roar;
Over thy gates their ensigns hang,
Sad tokens of their power.
How are the seats of worship broke!
They tear the buildings down,
And he that deals the heaviest stroke
Procures the chief renown.
With flames they threaten to destroy
Thy children in their nest;
"Come, let us burn at once," they cry,
"The temple and the priest."
And still, to heighten our distress,
Thy presence is withdrawn;
Thy wonted signs of power and grace,
Thy power and grace are gone.
No prophet speaks to calm our woes,
But all the seers mourn;
There's not a soul amongst us knows
The time of thy return.
How long, eternal God, how long
Shall men of pride blaspheme?
Shall saints be made their endless song,
And bear immortal shame?
Canst thou for ever sit and bear
Thine holy name profaned?
And still thy jealousy forbear,
And still withhold thine hand?
What strange deliv'rance hast thou shown
In ages long before !
And now no other God we own,
No other God adore.
Thou didst divide the raging sea
By thy resistless might,
To make thy tribes a wondrous way,
And then secure their flight.
Is not the world of nature thine,
The darkness and the day?
Didst thou not bid the morning shine,
And mark the sun his way?
Hath not thy power formed ev'ry coast,
And set the earth its bounds,
With summer's heat, and winter's frost,
In their perpetual rounds?
And shall the sons of earth and dust
That sacred power blaspheme?
Will not thy hand that formed them first
Avenge thine injured name?
Think on the cov'nant thou hast made,
And all thy words of love;
Nor let the birds of prey invade,
And vex thy mourning dove.
Our foes would triumph in our blood,
And make our hope their jest;
Plead thy own cause, Almighty God,
And give thy children rest.
God is the refuge of his saints,
When storms of sharp distress invade;
Ere we can offer our complaints,
Behold him present with his aid!
Let mountains from their seats be hurled
Down to the deep, and buried there,
Convulsions shake the solid world,
Our faith shall never yield to fear.
Loud may the troubled ocean roar;
In sacred peace our souls abide;
While every nation, every shore,
Trembles, and dreads the swelling tide.
There is a stream, whose gentle flow
Supplies the city of our God,
Life, love, and joy still gliding through,
And watering our divine abode.
Zion enjoys her monarch's love,
Secure against the threatening hour;
Nor can her firm foundation move,
Built on his faithfulness and power.
Let Zion in her King rejoice,
Though Satan rage, and kingdoms rise:
He utters his almighty voice,
The nations melt, the tumult dies.
The Lord of old for Jacob fought;
And Jacob's God is still our aid:
Behold the works his hand hath wrought!
What desolations he hath made!
From sea to sea, through all their shores,
He makes the noise of battle cease;
When from on high his thunder roars,
He awes the trembling world to peace.
He breaks the bow, he cuts the spear;
Chariots he burns with heavenly flame:
Keep silence, all the earth, and hear
The sound and glory of his name:
"Be still, and learn that I am God,
Exalted over all the lands;
I will be known and feared abroad;
For still my throne in Zion stands."
O Lord of hosts, almighty King!
While we so near thy presence dwell,
Our faith shall rest secure, and sing
Defiance to the gates of hell.
Now plead my cause, Almighty God,
With all the sons of strife;
And fight against the men of blood,
Who fight against my life.
Draw out thy spear and stop their way,
Lift thine avenging rod;
But to my soul in mercv say,
"I am thy Savior God!"
They plant their snares to catch my feet,
And nets of mischief spread;
Plunge the destroyers in the pit
That their own hands have made.
Let fogs and darkness hide their way,
And slipp'ry be their ground;
Thy wrath shall make their lives a prey,
And all their rage confound.
They fly like chaff before the wind,
Before thine angry breath;
The angel of the Lord behind
Pursues them down to death.
They love the road that leads to hell;
Then let the rebels die,
Whose malice is implacable
Against the Lord on high.
But if thou hast a chosen few
Amongst that impious race,
Divide them from the bloody crew,
By thy surprising grace.
Then will I raise my tuneful voice,
To make thy wonders known;
In their salvation I'll rejoice,
And bless thee for my own.
Behold the love, the gen'rous love,
That holy David shows;
Hark, how his sounding bowels move
To his afflicted foes !
When they are sick his soul complains,
And seems to feel the smart;
The spirit of the gospel reigns,
And melts his pious heart.
How did his flowing tears condole
As for a brother dead !
And fasting mortified his soul,
While for their life he prayed.
They groaned, and cursed him on their bed,
Yet still he pleads and mourns;
And double blessings on his head
The righteous God returns,
Glorious type of heav'nly grace !
Thus Christ the Lord appears;
While sinners curse, the Savior prays,
And pities them with tears.
He, the true David, Isr'el's King,
Blessed and beloved of God,
To save us rebels, dead in sin,
Paid his own dearest blood.
Servants of God, in joyful lays,
Sing ye the Lord Jehovah’s praise;
His glorious Name let all adore,
From age to age, forevermore.
Blest be that Name, supremely blest,
From the sun’s rising to its rest;
Above the heav’ns His pow’r is known,
Through all the earth His goodness shown.
Who is like God? so great, so high,
He bows Himself to view the sky;
And yet, with condescending grace,
Looks down upon the human race.
He hears the uncomplaining moan
Of those who sit and weep alone;
He lifts the mourner from the dust;
In Him the poor may safely trust.
O then, aloud, in joyful lays,
Sing to the Lord Jehovah’s praise;
His saving Name let all adore,
From age to age, forevermore.
SINCE thou hast given me this good hope, O God,
That while my footsteps tread the flowery sod
And the great woods embower me, and white dawn
And purple even sweetly lead me on
From day to day, and night to night, O God,
My life shall no wise miss the light of love;
But ever climbing, climb above
Man's one poor star, man's supine lands,
Into the azure steadfastness of death,
My life shall no wise lack the light of love,
My hands not lack the loving touch of hands;
But day by day, while yet I draw my breath,
And day by day, unto my last of years,
I shall be one that has a perfect friend.
Her heart shall taste my laughter and my tears,
And her kind eyes shall lead me to the end.
The little love god lying once asleep
Laid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,
Whilst many nymphs that vowed chaste life to keep
Came tripping by; but in her maiden hand,
The fairest votary took up that fire
Which many legions of true hearts had warmed,
And so the general of hot desire
Was sleeping by a virgin hand disarmed.
This brand she quenched in a cool well by,
Which from Love's fire took heat perpetual,
Growing a bath and healthful remedy,
For men discased; but I, my mistress' thrall,
Came there for cure and this by that I prove,
Love's fire heats water, water cools not love.
That god forbid, that made me first your slave,
I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
Or at your hand th' account of hours to crave,
Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure!
O, let me suffer, being at your beck,
Th' imprisoned absence of your liberty,
And patience tame to sufferance, bide each check,
Without accusing you of injury.
Be where you list, your charter is so strong
That you your self may privilage your time
To what you will; to you it doth belong
Your self to pardon of self-doing crime.
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
Not blame your pleasure, be it ill or well.
Have trust in God and things will turn out right;
Have faith in God and mountains melt like ice;
Have trust in Him- temptations you can fight;
Have faith in Him and Life will become nice.
Have trust in God for He can do all things;
Have faith in God who solves problems we can’t;
Have trust in Him who selects Leaders/ Kings;
Have faith in Him who feeds Ants /Elephant.
Have trust in God for He is our Friend true;
Have faith in God who remains always near;
Have trust in Him who brings the rain and dew;
Have faith in Him who is our Father dear.
Have trust in God who is so kind yet terse;
Have faith in Him who rules the universe!
7-1-2003
Dedicated to most revered D.G.S.DHINAKARAN,
JESUS CALLS MINISTRY, CHENNAI, INDIA,
On his birthday by Dr John Celes
Blest is the man who spreads the Word of God
To people who have never heard of it!
He serves like an instrument of the lord
And salvages some souls meant for the ‘Pit’.
Blest is the man who quotes the Scriptures well
And interprets them rightly for God’s cause!
He saves some sinners heading to sure hell
And brings more souls to Heaven with less loss.
Blest is the man who guides people to Light!
Rescuing them from Eternal darkness;
He knows the way to Heaven by foresight,
And delivers men from devil’s harness.
Blest is the man of God who spreads gospels!
For, Holy Spirit speaks through him and tells.
10-9-2001 by Dr John Celes
dedicated to Rev. Fr. Antony Lawrence D.D.,
my most revered School Principal, Teacher and
spiritual guide
Thank God for little children,
Bright flowers by earth's wayside,
The dancing, joyous lifeboats
Upon life's stormy tide.
Thank God for little children;
When our skies are cold and gray,
They come as sunshine to our hearts,
And charm our cares away.
I almost think the angels,
Who tend life's garden fair,
Drop down the sweet wild blossoms
That bloom around us here.
It seems a breath of heaven
Round many a cradle lies,
And every little baby
Brings a message from the skies.
Dear mothers, guard these jewels.
As sacred offerings meet,
A wealth of household treasures
To lay at Jesus' feet.
Take unto you the whole armour of God
that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day
loins truth
feet shod with peace
breastplate of righteousness
faith's shield, helmet of salvation
Word's sword
(Eph 6: 13-18)
© 2011
Much wonder I--here long low-laid -
That this dead wall should be
Betwixt the Maker and the made,
Between Thyself and me!
For, say one puts a child to nurse,
He eyes it now and then
To know if better 'tis, or worse,
And if it mourn, and when.
But Thou, Lord, giv'st us men our clay
In helpless bondage thus
To Time and Chance, and seem'st straightway
To think no more of us!
That some disaster cleft Thy scheme
And tore us wide apart,
So that no cry can cross, I deem;
For Thou art mild of heart,
And would'st not shape and shut us in
Where voice can not he heard:
'Tis plain Thou meant'st that we should win
Thy succour by a word.
Might but Thy sense flash down the skies
Like man's from clime to clime,
Thou would'st not let me agonize
Through my remaining time;
But, seeing how much Thy creatures bear -
Lame, starved, or maimed, or blind -
Thou'dst heal the ills with quickest care
Of me and all my kind.
Then, since Thou mak'st not these things be,
But these things dost not know,
I'll praise Thee as were shown to me
The mercies Thou would'st show!
Thee, God, I come from, to thee go,
All day long I like fountain flow
From thy hand out, swayed about
Mote-like in thy mighty glow.
What I know of thee I bless,
As acknowledging thy stress
On my being and as seeing
Something of thy holiness.
Once I turned from thee and hid,
Bound on what thou hadst forbid;
Sow the wind I would; I sinned:
I repent of what I did.
Bad I am, but yet thy child.
Father, be thou reconciled.
Spare thou me, since I see
With thy might that thou art mild.
I have life before me still
And thy purpose to fulfil;
Yea a debt to pay thee yet:
Help me, sir, and so I will.
But thou bidst, and just thou art,
Me shew mercy from my heart
Towards my brother, every other
Man my mate and counterpart.
. . . . . . . .
Is it not by his high superfluousness we know
Our God? For to be equal a need
Is natural, animal, mineral: but to fling
Rainbows over the rain
And beauty above the moon, and secret rainbows
On the domes of deep sea-shells,
And make the necessary embrace of breeding
Beautiful also as fire,
Not even the weeds to multiply without blossom
Nor the birds without music:
There is the great humaneness at the heart of things,
The extravagant kindness, the fountain
Humanity can understand, and would flow likewise
If power and desire were perch-mates.
Anonymous submission.
Blessed with a joy that only she
Of all alive shall ever know,
She wears a proud humility
For what it was that willed it so -
That her degree should be so great
Among the favoured of the Lord
That she may scarcely bear the weight
Of her bewildering reward.
As one apart, immune, alone,
Or featured for the shining ones,
And like to none that she has known
Of other women's other sons -
The firm fruition of her need,
He shines anointed; and he blurs
Her vision, till it seems indeed
A sacrilege to call him hers.
She fears a little for so much
Of what is best, and hardly dares
To think of him as one to touch
With aches, indignities, and cares;
She sees him rather at the goal,
Still shining; and her dream foretells
The proper shining of a soul
Where nothing ordinary dwells.
Perchance a canvass of the town
Would find him far from flags and shouts,
And leave him only the renown
Of many smiles and many doubts;
Perchance the crude and common tongue
Would havoc strangely with his worth;
But she, with innocence unwrung,
Would read his name around the earth.
And others, knowing how this youth
Would shine, if love could make him great,
When caught and tortured for the truth
Would only writhe and hesitate;
While she, arranging for his days
What centuries could not fulfil,
Transmutes him with her faith and praise,
And has him shining where she will.
She crowns him with her gratefulness,
And says again that life is good;
And should the gift of God be less
In him than in her motherhood,
His fame, though vague, will not be small
As upward through her dream he fares,
Half clouded with a crimson fall
Of roses thrown on marble stairs.
When suddenly, at midnight, you hear
an invisible procession going by
with exquisite music, voices,
don't mourn your luck that's failing now,
work gone wrong, your plans
all proving deceptive -- don't mourn them uselessly.
As one long prepared, and graced with courage,
say goodbye to her, the Alexandria that is leaving.
Above all, don't fool yourself, don't say
it was a dream, your ears deceived you:
don't degrade yourself with empty hopes like these.
As one long prepared, and graced with courage,
as is right for you who were given this kind of city,
go firmly to the window
And listen with deep emotion, but not
with whining, the pleas of a coward;
listen -- your final delectation -- to the voices,
to the exquisite music of that strange procession,
and say goodbye to her, to the Alexandria you are losing.
At midnight, when suddenly you hear
an invisible procession going by
with exquisite music, voices,
don't mourn your luck that's failing now,
work gone wrong, your plans
all proving deceptive--don't mourn them uselessly:
as one long prepared, and full of courage,
say goodbye to her, to Alexandria who is leaving.
Above all, don't fool yourself, don't say
it was a dream, your ears deceived you:
don't degrade yourself with empty hopes like these.
As one long prepared, and full of courage,
as is right for you who were given this kind of city,
go firmly to the window
and listen with deep emotion,
but not with the whining, the pleas of a coward;
listen--your final pleasure--to the voices,
to the exquisite music of that strange procession,
and say goodbye to her, to the Alexandria you are losing.
The Lord God says:
'Share your bread
with the hungry,
bring the homeless poor
into your house,
cover the naked.'
Dear Lord God,
We have got
new carpets,
so this will
not be possible.
God is the greatest artist
To whom no one can compare,
Streaking sunsets very beautiful,
Painting rainbows in the air.
Brushing green the hillside scene,
Blotting blue the sky above,
Splashing flowers 'cross the ground beneath,
Shading white clouds with His glove.
Of the wonders God has made
There is none that is so fair
As the smile He paints upon your face
When you realize He's there.
To The Greatest Artist, whose natural beauty and wisdom both inspired and guided me in writing this little verse
The man's name was Jesus of Nazareth
The crime committed read: King of the Jews
While on that cross, He taught Psalm Twenty Two
Then He said, ‘It is finished, ' ending death
He paid the ransom required you know
The Lamb who would be led to the slaughter
Bearing our sins and stripes at His Altar
He is the One written of long ago
The greatest love our God has for His wife
What a great price He paid to set us free
John Three Sixteen: if we belief in Thee
Thou shall give our souls everlasting life
For those who decide to walk in His Way
They shall be grafted to His Tree today
Abiding in Him, inheriting all
For He has not changed, but fulfilled the Law
Through His Word and Spirit we learn all
In His resurrection we see the eternal
God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope hope
There's a one-eyed yellow idol to the north of Khatmandu,
There's a little marble cross below the town;
There's a broken-hearted woman tends the grave of Mad Carew,
And the Yellow God forever gazes down.
He was known as "Mad Carew" by the subs at Khatmandu,
He was hotter than they felt inclined to tell;
But for all his foolish pranks, he was worshipped in the ranks,
And the Colonel's daughter smiled on him as well.
He had loved her all along, with a passion of the strong,
The fact that she loved him was plain to all.
She was nearly twenty-one and arrangements had begun
To celebrate her birthday with a ball.
He wrote to ask what present she would like from Mad Carew;
They met next day as he dismissed a squad;
And jestingly she told him then that nothing else would do
But the green eye of the little Yellow God.
On the night before the dance, Mad Carew seemed in a trance,
And they chaffed him as they puffed at their cigars:
But for once he failed to smile, and he sat alone awhile,
Then went out into the night beneath the stars.
He returned before the dawn, with his shirt and tunic torn,
And a gash across his temple dripping red;
He was patched up right away, and he slept through all the day,
And the Colonel's daughter watched beside his bed.
He woke at last and asked if they could send his tunic through;
She brought it, and he thanked her with a nod;
He bade her search the pocket saying "That's from Mad Carew,"
And she found the little green eye of the god.
She upbraided poor Carew in the way that women do,
Though both her eyes were strangely hot and wet;
But she wouldn't take the stone and Mad Carew was left alone
With the jewel that he'd chanced his life to get.
When the ball was at its height, on that still and tropic night,
She thought of him and hurried to his room;
As she crossed the barrack square she could hear the dreamy air
Of a waltz tune softly stealing thro' the gloom.
His door was open wide, with silver moonlight shining through;
The place was wet and slipp'ry where she trod;
An ugly knife lay buried in the heart of Mad Carew,
'Twas the "Vengeance of the Little Yellow God."
There's a one-eyed yellow idol to the north of Khatmandu,
There's a little marble cross below the town;
There's a broken-hearted woman tends the grave of Mad Carew,
And the Yellow God forever gazes down.
I PASSED along the water's edge below the humid trees,
My spirit rocked in evening light, the rushes round my knees,
My spirit rocked in sleep and sighs; and saw the moorfowl pace
All dripping on a grassy slope, and saw them cease to chase
Each other round in circles, and heard the eldest speak:
Who holds the world between His bill and made us strong or weak
Is an undying moorfowl, and He lives beyond the sky.
The rains are from His dripping wing, the moonbeams from His eye.
I passed a little further on and heard a lotus talk:
Who made the world and ruleth it, He hangeth on a stalk,
For I am in His image made, and all this tinkling tide
Is but a sliding drop of rain between His petals wide.
A little way within the gloom a roebuck raised his eyes
Brimful of starlight, and he said:  The Stamper of the Skies,
He is a gentle roebuck; for how else, I pray, could He
Conceive a thing so sad and soft, a gentle thing like me?
I passed a little further on and heard a peacock say:
Who made the grass and made the worms and made my feathers gay,
He is a monstrous peacock, and He waveth all the night
His languid tail above us, lit with myriad spots of light.
The laws of God, the laws of man,
He may keep that will and can;
Not I: let God and man decree
Laws for themselves and not for me;
And if my ways are not as theirs
Let them mind their own affairs.
Their deeds I judge and much condemn,
Yet when did I make laws for them?
Please yourselves, say I, and they
Need only look the other way.
But no, they will not; they must still
Wrest their neighbor to their will,
And make me dance as they desire
With jail and gallows and hell-fire.
And how am I to face the odds
Of man's bedevilment and God's?
I, a stranger and afraid
In a world I never made.
They will be master, right or wrong;
Though both are foolish, both are strong.
And since, my soul, we cannot fly
To Saturn nor to Mercury,
Keep we must, if keep we can,
These foreign laws of God and man.
We are children of the light
We belong not to the night
The Lord's feast we celebrate
According to that solar date
First day of the calendar
The Spring Equinox occurs
Sunset on the fourteenth day
Brings the fifteenth, His holiday
Christ's blood shed for our accord
The Passover of The Lord
< br>
God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God God  Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Christ Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover Passover believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe believe belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief belief Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian Christian holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holiday holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day holy day
THE threefold terror of love; a fallen flare
Through the hollow of an ear;
Wings beating about the room;
The terror of all terrors that I bore
The Heavens in my womb.
Had I not found content among the shows
Every common woman knows,
Chimney corner, garden walk,
Or rocky cistern where we tread the clothes
And gather all the talk?
What is this flesh I purchased with my pains,
This fallen star my milk sustains,
This love that makes my heart's blood stop
Or strikes a Sudden chill into my bones
And bids my hair stand up?
They shall see Him in the crimson flush
Of morning's early light,
In the drapery of sunset,
Around the couch of night.
When the clouds drop down their fatness,
In late and early rain,
They shall see His glorious footprints
On valley, hill and plain.
They shall see Him when the cyclone
Breathes terror through the land;
They shall see Him 'mid the murmurs
Of zephyrs soft and bland.
They shall see Him when the lips of health,
Breath vigor through each nerve,
When pestilence clasps hands with death,
His purposes to serve.
They shall see Him when the trembling earth
Is rocking to and fro;
They shall see Him in the order
The seasons come and go.
They shall see Him when the storms of war
Sweep wildly through the land;
When peace descends like gentle dew
They still shall see His hand.
They shall see Him in the city
Of gems and pearls of light,
They shall see Him in his beauty,
And walk with Him in white.
To living founts their feet shall tend,
And Christ shall be their guide,
Beloved of God, their rest shall be
In safety by His side.
"There is no God," the wicked saith,
"And truly it's a blessing,
For what He might have done with us
It's better only guessing."
"There is no God," a youngster thinks,
"or really, if there may be,
He surely did not mean a man
Always to be a baby."
"There is no God, or if there is,"
The tradesman thinks, "'twere funny
If He should take it ill in me
To make a little money."
"Whether there be," the rich man says,
"It matters very little,
For I and mine, thank somebody,
Are not in want of victual."
Some others, also, to themselves,
Who scarce so much as doubt it,
Think there is none, when they are well,
And do not think about it.
But country folks who live beneath
The shadow of the steeple;
The parson and the parson's wife,
And mostly married people;
Youths green and happy in first love,
So thankful for illusion;
And men caught out in what the world
Calls guilt, in first confusion;
And almost everyone when age,
Disease, or sorrows strike him,
Inclines to think there is a God,
Or something very like Him.
To Mohács
in the marshlands, still in the pouring rain,
August 29th, 1526, where those summoned
and hastily gathered died in thousands
in the space of a moment the chronicler
scribbles, in the safety of distance,
cruel panthers in a moment to hell's pit.
That day the guns chained wheel to wheel,
smoke and the cries of men and horses,
the knights shot from their saddles, armour
dragging them into the mire, the hooves
stamping them in, the infantry butchered,
in the space of a moment the swift
routine of retreat, slaughter and rout,
the space of a moment. No prisoners,
the wails of the wounded, the dying, becks
brimmed with blood, and the young king
thrown from his horse, drowned in his breastplate.
Thereafter Suleyman recalls he sat on the field
in the pouring rain on his glittering throne
to the long applause of his army: I am
Sultan Suleyman Han, son of Sultan Selim Han,
son of Sultan Bayezid Han. The shadow of God.
And they butcher the captives, dig the pits,
to bury their own brave dead, horses and men,
30 thousand whose last rainy day was this,
and the other dead lie in the rain, or scatter
their bones in the wetlands and the reedgrass.
Whatever birds pecked out their eyes
their names are no matter nor the stream
they drowned in nor the name of the planet
whose soft brown body they shovelled in after.
Thereafter the land burns and the churches,
thereafter women and slaves and silver.
And thereafter, pronounces the historian,
his quill's tip brushing his cheek, his point
squeaking over the page, the lamp's glint
on his inkhorn: the long Turkish night,
the tomb of the nation, dug in the rain.
In the space of a moment, in the centuries
moments pile into, leaf over leaf,
season by season as the winters pass
and the wars roll over and the borders shift
it is ploughland, old bones surfacing
at the hoe's edge and the plough's iron,
scapulae and vertebrae rising in a flat
wide fenced country laid open to the wind,
prowled by the tractors of the collectives
and the same wandering birds, black earth
through white snow, wind beaten scarecrow
and the white silence of another winter.
It is a museum of bones in the thick boney
stew of each other, where some bird sings
in the evergreens and a boy rings a bell
in the long white silence that follows.
It is a field of poles upright at a pit's rim,
carved into cruel faces, chiselled in grimaces,
spiked, helmeted, horned, a ragged line of posts
that are totems of men straggling off into trees,
some aslant, the long necks of horses
rearing from snow. They are flail and bludgeon
and battleaxe, calvaries of yokes and the bows
of the swift horsemen, the trailed arms
of the willow tree. They are the crescent moon
and the star, the cross, the crown, the turban
and the tarboosh, gnarled glances of soldiers,
the figures of dead men rising from the earth,
Suleyman with a basket of heads at his pommel
and the dead king Lajos in his blue bonnet.
Overhead the high jets in the clear blue
corridor of cloudless sky above Serbia,
flying the line of the great rivers
whose names are the same though the names
of the empires and the nations shift
on the maps. South of here, not far,
in the debateable lands of the warring states
the bones are again rising in the mud.
[...]
Very fast very slow the music
a lament from the villages
a music come down from the mountains
called across rivers across plains:
ah no joking and no joking
a gift for the kolo, bridegroom
the thieves they are singing
dance my love dance faster
faster till we fall down.
The reedgrass that will be thatch
first snowy fields turned in the plough.
A line of trucks in a white field
waiting for grain not yet sown:
end of the winter quarter
end of the season of craving
the river's ice drifting south
snow collapsing from the buildings:
the days of the death of King Winter.
The Busójárás.
Time to take to the streets
wearing the skins of beasts
masks years in the making offspring
of the old whisperers in the hearth
kin to the devotees of trees
and certain stones and all rivers
lord of the vines and beasts
our lady of the wild things the old gods
who never made it into heaven.
Busós.
They step out of the unwritten
the unremembered out of Illyria
out of the south the dark the flight
and the distant remembrance of panic
the horned hoof footed hard drinking
god of the shepherds. They step out
through the winter streets in masks
horns in sheepskins and bandoliers
with their bells and their rattles.
Busós.
With their antlers tall in the skins
of beasts belled shaggy moustache men
huge with their clubs and horns
wild in their tall wooden masks
coming on from the distance
all the years they have travelled
out of the unwritten the agrapha
the history of the forgotten
the long shadows of the lost gods.
At noon they have crossed the river
they have taken the streets
filled with organized riot
the ruckus of men in the male dance
the clatter and rattle of flails
the interminable clanging of bells
rain clanking into buckets
in mockery taking their ways
through the orders of anarchy.
Busós.
Fierce and yet not fierce
joking and yet not joking
this is the management of chaos:
the war of the great ratchets
the battle of the bells upright animals
striding through the streets
through the cold falling sunlight
in a wild skirling music
bearing the skulls of animals.
Busós.
Others come as veiled hooded women
a brown friar another the devil
a joker in a Russian tank mask
a Groucho Marx an Austrian helmet.
And these others ghosts in dirty sheets
rags sackcloth and ashes and stocking masks
bunched in knots of impudent silence
young men scattering the girls
the dead risen from the dead.
Centuries ago the traveller
Evliya Çelebi warned his far flung
wandering countrymen of the masked
madmen of Mohács in the marshland
in their shaggy jackets and bells
and their faceless faces:
they are devils devils
in the place of devils
no-one should go there.
In their own legend of themselves
they chased the Turks out of town
in terror. In the ill-disciplined
shaggy masked half-drunk ranks
among pitchforks and whirling clubs
the carved severed head on a stick
of a janissary, moustache top knot skull
goes round and round in the racket
and the gathering fire and the dusk.
How years ago they were fearless
in the place of defeat and rose again
how years ago a pig's blood painted
a cross in the town square and how
the masks stained in animal blood
and the wild cries and the kolo
was their resistance. How once
they were one with the beasts
one with men one with the gods.
Rutting and butting as beasts
sticks for pricks bells balls
and under the mask is another
and another they are Busós
three days of the year Busós
parading their ragged squads
to the square where the cannon
from that year of the rain
thunders mud and rags and smoke.
Busós.
Come nightfall on the third day
of marching and mayhem and music
that is Shrovetide the fire's lit
in the square. King Winter is dead
carted off in a coffin and burned.
On the coffin in flowery
Hungarian script: it's sold,
our country, it's sold, we have
nothing left but our fathers' pricks.
Where does this music come from,
an old woman asks. From all round her
from everywhere from earth
from the wind from the long turned
furrows of defeat the old sorrow
the old joy the songs
of the long gone into the dark.
It's sold, our country,
and all the thieves are laughing.
Time to march one last time
on the town and burn winter
with bells and cannon and fire
round and around the tottering square
masked men and horses the music
round and round the kolo
the dancing of the hairy men
and winter goes up in the flames
the tall smoke climbing the sky.
Busós.
The sliver of moon the first star
on the pale blue flag of the sky
as the sparks flare and die. At the edge
of the embers of memory the borders
of hearing: bells laughter a child
a cough girls singing the swift music
in the ashes of the evening
whisps of voices at a distance
in that far off language.
I
In days when men had joy of war,
A God of Battles sped each mortal jar;
The peoples pledged him heart and hand,
From Israel's land to isles afar.
II
His crimson form, with clang and chime,
Flashed on each murk and murderous meeting-time,
And kings invoked, for rape and raid,
His fearsome aid in rune and rhyme.
III
On bruise and blood-hole, scar and seam,
On blade and bolt, he flung his fulgid beam:
His haloes rayed the very gore,
And corpses wore his glory-gleam.
IV
Often an early King or Queen,
And storied hero onward, knew his sheen;
'Twas glimpsed by Wolfe, by Ney anon,
And Nelson on his blue demesne.
V
But new light spread. That god's gold nimb
And blazon have waned dimmer and more dim;
Even his flushed form begins to fade,
Till but a shade is left of him.
VI
That modern meditation broke
His spell, that penmen's pleadings dealt a stroke,
Say some; and some that crimes too dire
Did much to mire his crimson cloak.
VII
Yea, seeds of crescive sympathy
Were sown by those more excellent than he,
Long known, though long contemned till then -
The gods of men in amity.
VIII
Souls have grown seers, and thought out-brings
The mournful many-sidedness of things
With foes as friends, enfeebling ires
And fury-fires by gaingivings!
IX
He scarce impassions champions now;
They do and dare, but tensely--pale of brow;
And would they fain uplift the arm
Of that faint form they know not how.
X
Yet wars arise, though zest grows cold;
Wherefore, at whiles, as 'twere in ancient mould
He looms, bepatched with paint and lath;
But never hath he seemed the old!
XI
Let men rejoice, let men deplore.
The lurid Deity of heretofore
Succumbs to one of saner nod;
The Battle-god is god no more.
To the little, pitiful God I make my prayer,
The God with the long grey beard
And flowing robe fastened with a hempen girdle
Who sits nodding and muttering on the all-too-big throne
of Heaven.
What a long, long time, dear God, since you set the
stars in their places,
Girded the earth with the sea, and invented the day and
night.
And longer the time since you looked through the blue
window of Heaven
To see your children at play in a garden....
Now we are all stronger than you and wiser and more
arrogant,
In swift procession we pass you by.
"Who is that marionette nodding and muttering
On the all-too-big throne of Heaven?
Come down from your place, Grey Beard,
We have had enough of your play-acting!"
It is centuries since I believed in you,
But to-day my need of you has come back.
I want no rose-coloured future,
No books of learning, no protestations and denials--
I am sick of this ugly scramble,
I am tired of being pulled about--
O God, I want to sit on your knees
On the all-too-big throne of Heaven,
And fall asleep with my hands tangled in your grey
beard.
Truly My Satan thou art but a Dunce
And dost not know the Garment from the Man
Every Harlot was a Virgin once
Nor canst thou ever change Kate into Nan
Tho thou art Worship'd by the Names Divine
Of Jesus & Jehovah thou art still
The Son of Morn in weary Nights decline
The lost Travellers Dream under the Hill
Trust in God
He will lead you through
Remember His Son
trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust trust
God makes, He breaks!
God gives, He takes!
What tragedy!
What mystery!
What suffering!
What faltering!
But Why God does, no one can know!
Why He allows? Why He says, ‘No’! ?
This is the world in which we live;
Nature will not her secrets give;
Nevertheless, we can’t complain;
There’s harmony in boon or bane;
Who dare question Almighty’s ways?
We live a life of numbered days!
Yet, God is kind and cares for us;
Without the Lord, we shall be worse;
Some things happen which we can’t take:
We never know what’s true or fake;
The science we know turns obsolete;
Our labor seems at times effete;
And yet, men say that science is God!
-Believing which is rather odd;
The earth has built her devices,
Those mitigate human vices;
The man who thinks he is all wise,
Is sooner, later cut to size;
Who dare defy the Lord’s commands
Will slip into the Devils’ hands;
We have a code and soul to keep;
If otherwise, bad things we reap;
Man cannot curb Nature’s freedom;
Harnessing it is but seldom;
God made the man better than beast,
Promising him a sumptuous Feast;
If he lives not a better life,
God gives him woes, aplenty strife;
Through Nature’s fury, God reminds
-‘Man is God’s toy, which He rewinds! ’
Vote us oh God, dear God,
Rate us oh God, dear God,
Save us oh save us God,
Sprinkle thy mercy on us!
Rate us with resistance power,
Vote us with wonderful vaccine,
All atheists have turned,
They are planning to transform,
Atheists were running behind wealth,
Leaving you and your rules,
Atheists were planning to destroy
But you preserve your garden,
You rightly keep resources!
Corona has captured this Earth,
By your super power you throw,
Let Corona Virus leave this world,
Let all medicinal plants grow,
Reforming time and Earth,
You do wonder dear Master God,
Only you can save us at this time!
An appeal we do to you to vote us,
We know you rate us giving full point,
Getting ten we get delighting light,
You vote us and put us in power,
So that we can be victorious
And Corona will be defeated,
Corona has cut the throat,
Corona has thrown us out of
Five hundred planets,
Due to fear of death and the defeat,
Our friends are crying in agony,
You empower us bringing into top,
You save our civilization and lives!
© Kumarmani Mahakul,25 March 2020. All rights reserved.
(Genesis, v.24)
Oh! for a closer walk with God,
A calm and heavenly frame;
A light to shine upon the road
That leads me to the Lamb!
Where is the blessedness I knew
When first I saw the Lord?
Where is the soul-refershing view
Of Jesus and his word?
What peaceful hours I once enjoyed!
How sweet their memory still!
But they have left an aching void,
The world can never fill.
Return, O holy Dove, return!
Sweet the messenger of rest!
I hate the sins that made thee mourn
And drove thee from my breast.
The dearest idol I have known,
Whate'er that idol be,
Help me to tear it from thy throne,
And worship only thee.
So shall my walk be close with God,
Calm and serene my frame;
So purer light shall mark the road
That leads me to the Lamb.
When God opens Heaven's gates
As we cross that gulf so wide,
The arms of Jesus open
As our soul will there abide.
When God opens heaven's gates
We'll see beauty all around,
Our loved ones, too, will greet us,
As we leave this earth behind.
When God opens Heaven's gates
There'll be singing angels there,
The awesome peace and joyfulness
Will permeate the air.
As God opens Heaven's gates
And His Light takes place of day,
Jesus welcomes us forever
As the ones who found "The Way."
A puzzle together
a puzzle apart
each piece belongs to my heart
each piece is differant
each piece is great
But now they have to take on the long expected fate
They knew it would come
the day was here
the day they dreaded at the beginning of the year
The day they would be pulled apart
the whole would be broken
they knew it from the start
A piece here
and a piece there
how could life be so unfair
The beautiful picture the puzzle protrayed
is now forgotten
the pieces have strayed
They went away
fell beneath the wooden table
the puzzle would never again be stable
But that puzzle is forever in my heart
the memories of each piece
will never fall apart
-For my eighth grade class on graduation-
May Graduation Day fill your heart
With feelings of accomplishments this day,
To bring you peace of mind and happiness
In every special way.
May the fond memories of school days
Glow warmly in your beloved heart
Where the cherished classmates
Will forever play a vital part.
May Graduation Day be extra special
With elaborate pomp and show,
May the procession of elated graduates
Create glee and parent faces to glow.
May the ceremony for conferring diplomas,
The cards and acknowledgements and flowers
Fill the day with pride and immense joy
And delightful and meaningful hours.
May those you love and respect surround you
To share your moments of glory this day,
May the accolades of Graduation Day
Come into your life to forever stay.
Happy Graduation Day to you!
At last you've completed this journey.
Preparing for a long time you've
Pursued what you've dreamed for and now
You are going on your way up
Greater things are waiting for you and
Really you are on your way now
And there's a more in the future for you to do and your
Dad and your mom must be very proud of you
Use your talents well and be the best you can be, remember
All that you have done to get where you're now
This is not the end but it's just the beginning for you so
Inspire others you meet on your way out to do the same and
Open the door of your heart and
Never quit dreaming but hold on tight to your hopes 'cause
Day after day there are more things to do and learn
And remember to be honest and true to you because...
You can make all your dreams come true one day too
Happy Graduation Day to you!
August 23,2009
J-ust let the twilight pass;
H-aze and mist fade away;
U-nderneath the blue sky,
N-ew dawn meets the day.
M-orn nineteenth February
I-s setting Sunday aright;
L-et the sunlight rise,
A-fter the long cold night.
N-ow that your daughter has finished primary education;
O-pen your arms to be an escort in graduation.
Congratulate Kelly, on your graduation.
After four years of studies, you graduated from Dental school!
Now you have your license to practice
But you prefer more training in your sub-specialty.
You'll spend two more years in school
And you'll accumulate more astronomical debts!
This week, you made a trip to Philadelphia.
You visited new school with your mother and brother.
Next two years you will be a resident at Penn Dental school
To receive special training in orthodontics.
You'll pay expensive rent these years.
Fortunately, your classmate shares one half of the rent.
So now, you can put your mind to study hard.
Two years from now, you'll graduate from this ivy school to enter your practice.
Thank you for visiting me and your aunt.
As a small gift to you, this poem is our congratulations.
05233016
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Above is translation poem of the Vietnamese Poem of NHIEN NGUYEN MD:
MỪNG KELLY TỐT NGHIỆP BÁC SĨ NHA KHOA
Mừng thay cháu đã ra trường
Bốn năm đèn sách, xong trường Nha khoa.
Bây giờ cháu đã có bằng
Nhưng mà cháu muốn thêm ngành chuyên khoa.
Thêm hai năm nữa học hành
Thêm tiền vay mượn, nợ càng chồng cao!
Tuần này, cháu ghé Phila
Thăm trường cùng mẹ và anh của mình.
Hai năm sẽ học trường Penn
Chuyên môn cháu sẽ chuyên nghề niền răng.
Phòng thuê cháu ở hai năm
May mà có bạn chia hai tiền phòng.
Thôi thì cháu cố 'luyện công'
Chỉ hai năm nữa chờ thời 'hạ san'.
Cám ơn cháu đến thăm nhà
Chút quà mừng cháu, thơ này chung vui.
05232016
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Congratulation!
Your new pride and elation:
Your new MSW.
You aim higher sky
In your education line
PhD in Psych.
Congratulation!
Your new job with new title
Wellspan Philhaven.
Congratulation!
I wish you the best of all
And best days to come.
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
5/12/2017
To my assistant Patricia Wright MSW
On her graduation day from Millersville University 2017.
Like children in fear
Of their innocence lost
We all dreamed our dreams
At unlimited cost
But the reality of our hopes
Always seemed to be in vain
Because the hands of desparation
Left no ground for us to gain
Never seeing a way out
Would only feed our frustration
Like a hungry naked man
In the face of humiliation
And to the height of any challenge
We refused to climb at all
Because our hearts were far removed
By the fear that we might fall
But today we are free
To be the souls of all our dreams
As the fabric of our desires
Are held firmly at the seams
For with patient endurance
We reached a brand new plateau
Where our dignity and pride
Could have a real chance to grow
So let our yesterday's fears
Be a long forgotten past
As we face up to the challenge
Of life's new unending tasks
Like the stretching hands of time
We may never reach an end
But at least now we have the means
To fight back...to defend
For there may come a time
When our names are less than words
Our thoughts are never known
And our speech never heard
But in the time we have been given
Let us not forget this day
Because the price it cost
To get this far
Was a price only you could pay.
Time to leave the ivory tower
We shall climb higher and look further
We're leaving our salad days behind
and start chasing our dreams ahead
Give an embrace to the unknown future
Opportunities are always hidden in dangers
Lift our head and spread our wings
To touch the sky and reach the stars
The moments we spent together
The memories I'll always hold dear
Would it take long to recognise me
If we happened to meet after years?
With cap and gown
And scroll in your hand,
You’ve joined an elite band:
A full-blown Doc!
The world needs you
To serve the sick;
A noble duty you must do
And keep aflame the wick.
The world is large
And so its challenges;
Ahead you charge;
Time will solve all problems.
And never forget
Your Alma Mater-
The place that made you
A Doctor.
And think awhile
About your teachers too;
They did a job fine that
All couldn’t do.
Remember friends,
You’re a noble lot;
Keep your Ethics,
And reach the top slot.
“Wish you a bright career! ”
Copyright by Dr John Celes
11-11-2005
As we look back,
At what we have done,
And at what we have completed thoroughly.
We finally see what we have accomplished,
And failed at to some degree.
As we look back,
And see our friends,
And how we have become a family.
We realize what we will miss,
Of the friendships that came to be.
As we look back,
and see our parents,
who never gave up or stopped believing,
they were here when we triumphed,
and here when we fell to our knees.
As we look back,
with all our friends,
And see all of the memories of our lives,
This is for everyone who is almost there,
It’s for the class of 2005.
Graduation is coming faster then you know
soon it will be may and we will all be alone
soon we will be crying and we will finally be free
adults you see
either going off to college or staying home
graduation is all we want to hear
there will be laughs
and i'm afraid more tears
as we honor those who wont be with us this year
they did to young
but hey it's life
graduation will be the worst
but the worst is yet to come
graduation is the bench mark
as you close your high school chapter
and open a knew one to life!
GRADUATION I CAN'T WAIT! ! ! ! !
Mmm I wanna linger
Mmm A little longer
Mmm A little longer here with you
Mmm It's such a perfect night
Mmm It doesn't seem quite right
Mmm That this is my last night with you.
Mmm Come September
Mmm We'll all remember
Mmm Our Central days and friendships true
Mmm And as the years go by
Mmm We'll all recall and sigh
Mmm This is goodnight and not goodbye
This is my graduation class
and I have bunked quite a few of them.
terrifyingly I realize it has to be a long time
for I am frantically looking for the college
the home of my graduation class
and here I am groping to get my way back
asking people the way to my college!
Must be my long absence playing tricks on my memory
but that hardly makes sense.
At last I find out the iron gate
from there a narrow passage shows flight of stairs
but my class, which floor is my class?
doesn't strike me the hush
as I run up the steps
wasn't it the fourth floor?
and when I reach it gasp for breath
my graduation class looks unfamiliar
so is the head stooping under the table lamp
his specs almost falling from nose
intently gazing at something
from the maze of electrical apparatuses spread before him.
I don't recollect having ever a teacher like him
but today I don't trust my memories
too many things I have forgotten
must be the fallout of missing classes for too long
the man there in my graduation class
has to be my teacher!
He looks up as I start speaking
I'm sorry sir, being ill I've missed some classes
but I'll manage to catch up.
Then it happens
my bag swings in the air
pulled by an invisible force!
He smiles at my awed face
don't bother, you know, it's so strong
the electromagnetic field of course
such nasty pulls they make
in a flash a floodgate opens
my graduation class doesn't have a lab inside
my bag by now flying in the air is an office bag
I have no business in the college anymore
I had left my graduation class
over three decades ago!
graduation here i come,
as my life comes and goes,
college comes soon i am glad,
soon i will be free as the wind,
soon to be famous,
soon to be free,
stardom calling,
here i come.
A day to part
Away from scholarly books
And mind boggling journals
Running words and trawling letters
Leaving behind the assignments
And examinations.
Graduation day
A fulfillment of recognition
Granted to measure the tough journey
Traveled in months and years
Browsing pages of papers
Now, insignificantly lie somewhere.
The sleepless nights
The restless moments
All have vanished with the crown
Received on this day.
A lot of happy smiles
And tears exchanged
During these periods,
But all joined together
To commemorate the hardship endured
To beat many through the journey
And come out the best among many.
The fear of losing the battle
And the agony of anticipation
Are all but flimsy tattles
Of this illusive mind
But never mind
There are no exams to mind, anymore,
at least for sometime.
Be ready to climb one more ladder
Make it your priceless ambition.
I wish you all the best, buddy
(Dedicated to my friend Mary Das from JB, Malaysia)
Twelve years we have worked for this
day after day, year after year
Teachers filled are head with knowledge
most encouraged us to dream big
but our dreams can only be accomplished is
if we put our mind to it to make a better life for ourselves
no one is going to just hand you your delploma we most
work for it
the harder you work the easyer is it in the end
we work our butts off for twelve years
to wear a cap and gown and to walk across the stage
don't screw it up now!
C-ommencement program
J-ust starts to confer degrees,
B-estowing honors.
Four years may seem a fleeting moment
Leading towards a Commencement
Of highs, onwards to a new degree
Of lows to friends, a parting sorrow.
Moments endearing spent in school
Homeworks, thesis becoming a tool
Knowledge and learning- food for the soul
As graduation becomes a goal.
Looking back the early Freshman year
Made each classmate and friend so dear
Period of adjustment oh so hard
Oh, how College caught many off guard.
Then came Sophomore and Junior years
Drove so many several fears
Requirements of PASSING piling up
Doubling one's time, fixing the gap.
Then came SENIOR year, the FINAL stop
Practicum here and there, moving on
Seeing the light as the tunnel shone
Clearances accomplished now all gone.
Now as individuals marched and watched
I just can't help but shed a tear
Of moments spent in ups and downs
Of mixed emotions in getting the CROWN.
Congratulations.
(March 2011, Clifforce Poetics/Dedicated to the Department of Hospitality Management Graduating Class of 2011)
Putting on a gown,
Heading into town.
Taking place in line,
Parents sitting way behind.
Talking with some friends,
I probably won't see again.
Walking to my seat,
Staring at my feet.
Embarrassed by all the eyes,
Wondering where are the guys.
Twisting my neck,
Everyone out there is a speck.
Sitting down anxious to begin,
Patience running kind of thin.
Speeches lasting way too long,
Where's the old marching song?
Finally up and out of the chair.
Trying not to mess up my hair.
Staring at the back of a head,
Hearing the names called instead.
Finally mine has been said.
Wishing I never left my bed.
Walking to grab a rolled up paper,
Smiling in the direction of the sole clapper,
Hearing the shouts and laughter,
Shaking hands and posing after.
Walking back to the same chair?
Waiting to throw my cap in the air.
Up it goes in a drum of applause
We are definitely a lost cause.
Picking up my cap from the floor.
Heading out and saying bye,
I don't even remember that guy.
Finding my family and some friends
Posing for pics in front of the lens.
Closing my laptop and taking off my gown,
Maybe someday I'll head into town.
When life is far from a guarantee, Imagination must meet virtual reality.
(C) 2020 copyright Elena Plotkin
As you drive away
I wave goodbye,
And remember the times
We laughed and cried.
As you drive away
I slowly start to cry
And remember how much
You hurt me deep inside.
As you drive away
I’m filled with anger
Because you never said
You’re sorry for my pain.
As you drive away
I look my life
…And yours,
And I forgive you.
As you drive away
I wave goodbye
Then, stand and watch
And realize it graduation day
And nothing will ever be the same.
He has triumphed the rough and rugged road
and the obstacles that lay therein.
He has shown the world the heavy load
could not get the best of him.
Good luck, my son, may God's blessings
be yours in the years to come.
No mother has prayed more sincere prayers
than has your one and only mom.
White highlighted by purple and gold
upon our arrival, we nervously walked through the threshold
her arm safely secured
the couple that would never be
every glance down the aisle
greeted with a smile
it meant so much to me
procession drags on
with haint of praise
narrated by nastalgic songs
parchment recieved with pride
a bitter signature on a note
tha bares goodbyes
with a flash
my progress is cemented in time
The fire is in us tonight
Applause shows thier respect
whats next for us?
my graduating class
relief settles in, with words of love
to much crying
never enough hugs
I saw her
I heard her words
and met them with an embrace
choked up
the words bled sincerity and truth
my chin on her shoulder
arms wrapped around tight
'I love you'
hands down
that long awaited beauty
made my night
hesitation was key
I replied
never mocking
I hope she believed me
the after math
was filled with ash
my freinds ahd fire in thier lungs
the dramitic lives
and the pride of the young
the fire blazed
high and well
speech flowed
'we gave em hell'
separation was not a notion
all we have
is what we left
milestones and broken homes
senceless acts of innocents
trials by fire
drama and laugh
hold to it
live, learn from it
we cant get it back
Graduation Day is the climax of a dream.
A parental dream that began when a child is born,
And their hope come true it would seem,
A triumph held after periods of forlorn,
A feeling of pride and euphoria years away
For a daughter or son - Graduation Day.
It is a peak of success for the graduate,
Not only for the graduate but parents too.
A joyful event after many years they had to wait,
Realizing the glorious thrill of a dream come true,
A genuine smile accompanied by a deep sigh,
Often a handkerchief in hand as the class goes by.
Graduation is a deserving, hard earned goal
With mortarboard and gown as foretold,
A gratifying service of the mind and soul
In a simple and beautiful sheepskin told
That the graduate fulfilled the educational rule.
At last, for the mother and father, a dream come true.
Graduation Day!
The more I look back on all the happy times
the easier it is for me to realize
that friends are much more then hellos and goodbye
it all comes down to what you have inside.
Yes, some are good singers and some are athletic
but that doesnt matter (are you starting to get it?)
all that is important is the feeling inside
if your white or black or green or blue eyed.
For me to sit and say 'I wont miss this old place'
is wrong and untrue (cant you tell in my face?)
all the frinds and teachers meant so much to me
I dont know any place that i'd rather be.
'Those were the days', I'd here my parents say.
charish there years...each and everyday
The people you'll meet and the places you'll go
and the hurt once thats gone is more then you'll know.
All my friends will be leaving and i'll still be here
All my friends i'll be losing is my greatest fear
Promise you wont forget me as you go away,
promise you'll be back to see me someday!
Memories float among the abyss,
As hearts smile with joy,
And cry with loneliness.
Although happiness prevails,
The sorrow lingers on.
People glow a new shade,
And life begins to take on new meaning.
The long speeches and the loud applause’s fill the void.
The joyful cheers and the bone crushing hugs subside the pain
Today is graduation day.
It is not an ending but a new beginning.
The moment it is realized,
A chip long carried on your shoulder
Has been dissolved...
A graduation has occurred.
And you have moved on.
It has dawned on you,
Bitterness that you knew...
Has gone!
It's graduation day!
And knowing you belong among
Those who can truthfully say they can forgive.
Is a blessing to have lived to learn,
That lesson!
So many have failed and given up.
They are the ones heard stuck...
Finding fault with everything.
And nothing within them is felt to give!
Those are the ones who live life,
Being right without insight!
And on the tips of their tongues,
Is a complaint about something or someone.
And what who did and how it was done...
To them.
They want the attention,
Although they don't listen!
And...
At some point in time,
Minds they have are left behind!
In affairs misunderstood with blame to claim.
The women ran
screaming like goats
but he was warned
by the flash
on the ceiling
when they opened
their car doors.
Their feet were heavy
on the flat stones.
Glass smashed
dangerously inward.
He thought, 'I think,
therefore...' he ran.
Above the city,
universes sparkled
in the cold, black air.
Crouching in a red shadow,
he remembered thinking...
Graduation day
Today is our graduation
And we are leaving all our friends
But this is just a start for us
For a journey that never ends
We will miss our pre-school
And all our teachers too
Who always made such a fuss!
To mold, to love and to educate us
Written by: Natasha Maginley-Francis
June 7th 2010
Today's the day we honor you, send love and blessings too.
Our prayers for you to know true joy through what you say and do.
Rejoice in your accomplishments for you have come so far,
A milestone and a victory that's brought you where you are.
And as you hold your head up high, embrace that scroll in hand,
Just hold that vision of the joy and honor where you stand.
For this exhilaration is the power that you'll find,
Propels and fuels the dreams you dream, the passions in your mind.
Those dreams can take you anywhere; believe that you can be
And settle not for getting by or mediocrity.
Enjoy and celebrate your day; remember as you go,
Your past and all your memories, the happiness you know.
Hold this treasure in your heart and walk with pride today.
Your road ahead has just begun; you'll soon be on your way.
A road that's filled with obstacles and opportunity;
Your choice to see what you will see, to be what you will be.
One door will close with scroll in hand, your gateway to begin;
With seeds to be a shining star whose time has come to win.
As the years in our lives pass by,
We come closer to our lives so gatsby,
Yes, I am talking about graduation day,
A day filled with mixed feelings of our life's way,
A day so inspiring for some,
Yet so disheartening that it may make one feel completely gone,
But there is light at the end of the tunnel,
As we may notice some dreams of us bubble,
So let us not lose hope,
And instead work hard every other day,
To reach closer to our lives beautiful way,
And this will make our lives so bright and gay.
Graduation Day
sweat and mothballs
grass so green
graduation
where green banners wave
grass grows long
graduation night
the owl printed on a balloon
seems the wisest
*Please comment and vote on poems*
Graduation day
Is a long awaited day
For both parents and the graduate
Graduation day
Is a day of dream come true
The dream of parents since the child has born.
The joy and the pride
The parents feelings would be wordless.
All their effort to provide their children
With the best has been successfully
Fulfilled and paid off.
It is a climax day of a graduate
All the faces will be bright with smiles
Hands will be holding tissues
To wipe away
Tears of joy will be flowing
The graduate will be showered
With bouquets of flowers
Well wishes and best wishes
A day to be remembered now and then.
perhaps it is true
too much love can kill
in love poems too
got much
and now reading another love poem
gives me goose bumps
sometimes i think
making the love poem
and another love poem simply shows
your having not loved much
and your being not loved in return
love more and even if unrequited love some more
get up from a loving fall
cure that bruise
mend that broken heart
love still even when the world has learned the art of
indifference and hate more than any other
takes time to learn to do this
to know that love is giving and giving and giving
and then
after years of this kind of loving and giving
you will experience what i had gone through
now the love poem doesn't tickle anymore
nature does
the waves of the sea caressed by the hands of twilight
the moon nesting on the marsh
the grasses all wet with dew
the clouds pregnant with the blows of the wind
the gentle rain falling on the roof tops
the geese on their v-flight
the fledgling jumping from the nest to learn to fly
you see, this is what i am engrossed in now.
a beautiful world that i have not described well enough.
Graduation is a huge step
Not only for you
Your friends and your family
Don’t know what to do.
Will you keep in touch?
Will you call them every day?
Or will all of their memories,
Simply fade away?
Graduation is adrenaline,
It gets the heart a racing
But your poor folks feel stressed,
Soon they’ll start the pacing.
But knowing you tells me that you will never forget
Your high school years you will never regret
I know…..
That you will call your family
You’ll let them know you’re okay.
Even if you feel like it’s been a shitty day
Your friends will be close by you will surely keep in touch
For simply letting go would be a deadly punch
You will be remembered, your greatness will remain
For you have never caused, aggression, hate, or pain.
I write this to you now to show you that I care,
And also that I’m glad that you are always there.
Is it all over?
Where did all the years went to?
Tears come down my face
Go, Erik Go. You are walking in the spotlight of stars tonight, at County
College of Morris Twenty-eighth Commencement Celebration rite. How exhilarating your mother feels? Words fail to justify this night. But, my heart
overflows with pride, joy and radiant bliss, that I want to jump up and do the "Twist." Son, instead, I give you a bear hug and cheek kiss, which is better than a slipped disk.
Sniff, Sniff, mother weeps. I just remembered your baby years. It was so
hard loving you then. I worked dog tired; had little rest, while I tried to
do my very best. Everyday as I cradled you against my chest and watched you
suckle lying at rest, bonded superfluous strength to survive the Single
Parent Test and the stamina to do the rest.
Woo, Woo, Woo, mother shouts as Erik ascends the stage steps for his degree.
He smiles with glee and gives two "Thumbs" up to me. When he returns seated, I
congratulate him saying, "My son, let 'God's Beacon' signal your pathway,
when an unexpected life wobble leave your mind in a boggle. Stay plugged into
life using positive discipline, diplomacy and tact. These are strategies that work, when golden opportunity explodes like sparkling fireworks.
Go, Go, Go, mother yells from her gut, as the ceremony ends; the happy class
leave walking, in a last unity strut. Erik's cap is pitched high into the sky,
outside. He is next to hop aboard the "Opportunity Roller Coaster Ride."
at the graduation
all the flowers
in bloom      (10th place in June 2009 Kukai contest)
midnight passes
wooden stairs
sound the alarm
People are happy...
People think they are everything...
But wait till graduation...
Then the questions will arrive...
What will I do now? ...
Will I make it through life? ...
What if I can't make it through college? ...
Well, should have thought of that...
Should have planned it out...
But others are okay, they were smart...
There are their questions...
Will graduation day be over with already?
Wukk everybody come to the graduation? ...
Now here are my questions...
When will this be over with...
THis is taking too long...
School is getting boring...
Jeez, I am ready for college to start...
Thank GOD I am doing mine online...
More peace and quiet...
So...
What's your question :)
A gentleman or so he seemed
A graduation present was his need
From me my cherry was his goal
Given his way he would have stole
That which is precious for me to save
Until my special wedding day
He kissed and asked, and I said no
He reached, he touched, and I said no
He pushed and grabbed, and I said no
He tried to force and I said no
He didn't stop and I said no
Then with my knee I did said NO
Now he is hurt and I should go
So all his cloths I gathered fast
Through the window they did pass
And past his friends must go his ass
After many years of life and varied experience for me
I wish to leave a few words for you to record in your memory
Your about to embark on a journey that is paved with responsibility.
It matters not whether you are to continue your education or not
Be concious the next few years may not be exactly what you sought
Experience can be varied or routine but always given; believe it or  not
Responsibility and intent will be entwined for most of your actions
Be aware also that what you do, say and think, may be a quick reaction
What we do many time is not what was meant and needs a retraction.
The world can be your oyster and you can have your fill
.Life can be good or bad but rarely a bitter pill
The family is paramount and to destroy or seperate, is not God's will.
Every mind is precious and could hold the key
To open the door and  hopefully change history.
Time is not illusionary or taken out of turn
Who created our sun and set the parameters, so earth would not burn?
God gives us life, time, and most importantly light
The gift of a mind to recognize wrong acts from right.
The cause is not valid if the deeds are wrong
Nor is any act that removes life certainly does not belong.
10-22-06
Twelve years we have worked for this
day after day, year after year
Teachers filled are head with knowledge
most encouraged us to dream big
but our dreams can only be accomplished is
if we put our mind to it to make a better life for ourselves
no one is going to just hand you your delploma we most
work for it
the harder you work the easyer is it in the end
we work our butts off for twelve years
to wear a cap and gown and to walk across the stage
don't screw it up now!
Graduation Day is the climax of a
dream.
A parental dream that began
when a child is born,
And their hope come true it
would seem,
A triumph held after periods of
forlorn,
A feeling of pride and euphoria
years away
For a daughter or son -
Graduation Day.
It is a peak of success for the
graduate,
Not only for the graduate but
parents too.
A joyful event after many years
they had to wait,
Realizing the glorious thrill of a
dream come true,
A genuine smile accompanied by
a deep sigh,
Often a handkerchief in hand as
the class goes by.
Graduation is a deserving, hard
earned goal
With mortarboard and gown as
foretold,
A gratifying service of the mind
and soul
In a simple and beautiful
sheepskin told
That the graduate fulfilled the
educational rule.
At last, for the mother and father,
a dream come true.
Graduation Day!
The award of diploma
Is every student's desire;
It's like a sweet aroma
Aimed by heart's burning fire.
An acceptance of medal
Is an icing on the cake;
The day is very special,
A chance one must really take.
During many years in course,
Research and quizzes seem hard;
Results are better, not worse,
Bringing cool and sweet reward.
The speech in the occasion
Is awesomely inspiring;
Giving righteous direction,
Like what words of wisdom bring.
The teachers utter farewell,
So do the classmates and friends;
Goodbye and good luck they tell,
As the last day in school ends.
Form: Tanaga
Memories
Emotional, Labour
Laughing, Yelling, Crying
Babies, Toddler's, Teen's, High school
Talking, Helping, Crying
Dresses, Tuxes
Graduation
Sudden changes in the weather
Has you trying to hold it together.
Is it outdoors or indoors?
No one knows anymore.
Will there be lightning and thunder?
Will graduation happen at all, you wonder.
But keep on practicing
Hold on to that dream
Take a deep breath;
Try not to scream.
It’s always going to be something
That is outside the norm,
Because LIFE is all about
How you deal with the storms.
© Carolyn Brunelle
It’s finally here,
Graduation day is finally here.
Everybody’s so excited,
It’s the most important day of our young lives.
Some of us are scared,
We are being sent out into the world.
College isn’t like high school,
You’re friends won’t be there with you.
We don’t know what to expect,
Or if we will like college.
We will have to make new friends,
And deal with new bullies.
We may not even be sure what we want to do,
But we will try to make the best of it.
Some of us will stay with family while we are at college,
But others will go away.
Even though we won’t be where we are used to,
We can still have fun.
Graduating made us individuals,
No longer a group.
Now we hope the world can handle us,
Because here we come.
Ready to make our own spot in the world,
And not just in our families.
Two years and I'll be gone.
Being a sophomore is rather boring.
I spend 5 of my seven classes snoring.
It's kinda weird to think that in two years,
just two school years, I'll be facing my fears.
I'm gonna graduate with a mediocre college degree.
This is how my school years will end for me.
I'm smart enough to pass
but to slow to grasp.
I can play quite a few instruments, that could help.
And at least I haven't failed.
It's gonna be different living on my own.
It's coming,
I can feel it.
Rushing at me,
like a tidal wave.
Soon,
free and independent.
I'll start a new story,
leave the old one behind.
Bring my favorite chapters with me,
leave the others alone.
When it comes then goes, I'll begin wondering,
what I'll do when I'm older.
I'll be happy it's finally over, until,
I'm realizing I'm crying,
my tears coming from the part of me who doesn't want to let go.
That doesn't want to leave behind all that's surrounded it for years,
But then, I'll remember all that's ahead of me,
an untold story waiting to be written still.
So, with a heavy heart, I'll move on,
Take my huge last step to the end,
and take my first step into my new beginning.
And experience a day,
my day,
called graduation.
12 years of school and now it's close to ending
I'm going to miss all my friends
Who'm are still attending
The dances were fun and the privilages were sweet
I'll never forget those who I did meet
so long to all my teachers
who'm gave me great advice
go for all the gold
Look upon a finished life.
There's nothing left recalled.
One Life it's graduation.
Black gown and cap to large.
Finished contemplating
cap list tassle proud
searching
are you kidding me
no employment found
humor me is this real
not what I expected
education will get you ahead
unemployment lines instead
no resources only  family
and government I'm sick
luxury, the first thing I can do without
that means catfood with no cat
while titans of industry
continue to get  fat
Lucky am  I
no house no foreclosure
only a second hand trailor
on the edge of town.
I am very sad.
The huge corsage of mums
Was a cruel joke
The senior boys pinned on
Glori who nevertheless
Wore it with pride
On her graduation death-gown
(from Quintet for a Murdered Outcast)
Walks down the halls one last time,
knowing it is the last time,
Empty rooms where we sat the last four years,
empty lockers where books were kept,
Walks down and across the stage into a new life,
no more bells-early mornings- or being late,
A new life awaits, won't wait forever,
live life the way it was designed,
Graduation
Exciting, Emotional
Saying final goodbyes
Tears welling in eyes
Commencement
We have been here for years,
And now it’s time to go.
We all have our fears,
Like having to mow.
We will go our separate ways,
But will be forever friends.
Our lives is like a maze,
And will never end.
We’re off to high school,
We’re big kids now.
And we are cool,
Even if we bow.
A puzzle together
a puzzle apart
each piece belongs to my heart
each piece is different
each piece is great
But now they have to take on the long expected fate
They knew it would come
the day was here
the day they dreaded at the beginning of the year
The day they would be pulled apart
the whole would be broken
they knew it from the start
A piece here
and a piece there
how could life be so unfair
When we use to laugh and do dares
We always use to think are teachers were unfair
But know we are older and have to grow up
We no longer have people taking us by the hand
And walking on such gentle land
The night
before your graduation
making curry
with tears in my eyes
missing it
for the third time.
we'll heap gardenias on the stage
and sing together only the true songs
from the heart like a petal folded down
to mark this space, this transition
others made before us too.
and in the chapel of ourselves recall
the universe we studied the pale green halls and feel
one course finished, another yet to start and so we pause
like trembling stars in the early evening
and wait to play our part
seal off the exits that fear may not enter in this day
nor war nor sickness tragedy that bears so many away
too young. God make us sure in the way that we must go but now
hold us still in the rose bower of this hour
and let the spell be cast through mingled prayers and tears
that makes the fragrant moment last and last
beyond the felling of the years.
mary angela douglas 13 april 2020
Graduation...
It seems so long ago
That we were in kindergarten
Eight years ago.
Ending elementary school,
Going on to high school.
Many things have happened
I'll always remember them.
Our parents have stood by us all these years,
Encouraging us in love
And support.
I wish I could relive those moments...
But it is not to happen.
Use your time wisely...
You will treasure it.
GRADUATION
Melvin Banggollay
Greetings to all our dear graduates
Who sipped education's bitterness
After many years of an ardent quest
At last, you behold flame of success.
Hail to all that excelled their best
To prove their worth in their interest
Unmindful of the trails and sacrifices
only to secure a future so bless.
Congratulation to all our dear parents
Who never failed in their promisses
To educate their children amidst all mess
But never surrendered to give the best.
But indeed, today is just the beginning
of a more ardous challenges unending
as you will be pushed forward seeking
opportunities with all your learnings.
Some may be lucky to land for a job
in line with their educational preparation
but some are prone or forced to just grab
Job totally strange to their education.
But be not afraid to sail beyond uncertainty
Paddling and roawing with tears in the way
For who knows just a distance not far away
Glitering smile of gold awaits you patiently.
I couldn’t wait to leave this place
The moment has arrived and I have tears streaming down my face.
Graduation is another one of my milestones.
Now I know I must face the world on my own.
I’ve waited for this moment for so long
Now I must go to college like I planned all along.
I’ll miss my friends that I’ve made.
My memories of high school will not fade.
Six years have past
You finally done last
This is the beginning not the last
Keep walking fast
Till next graduation of class
My heart was filled with sweet Alleluya
Of thousand of red roses aroma
When you saw me your diploma
You didn't turn down the sacrifices of your mama
We proud of you Antonia
Stay strong never surrender
All thing happend with God power
Never stop say a prayer
Faith unto Him forever
Have never faced challenge so gross
Once was a thing to rejoice
But after experiencing the hardship
Presented to me by the outside world...
Can't seem to figure where my faith lye
It all started after graduation
Everyone sending their warmth kudos
Then, I felt like the greatest achiever
But years past still roaming the streets
In search for a better tomorrow
My name now a household example
Of the numerous jobless graduates
Just another figure added
To the long list of unemployed youths
With my jeans getting worn out
So also is my creativity in the labour market
The only exotic memory i have left
Is the hope of meeting my glorious colleagues…
On my way to the promise land
My acclaimed journey might be rough
But people are only interested in the brighter pix
Never knew this is what graduation is all about
Smiling faces as they all welcome you
After successful completion of studies...
Frowning faces after several months
Of scavenging for menial jobs
Quite had a lot of smile on my face before graduation
But now, the sole of my shoe explains it all
Discovered my talent on the rough edge of life
With this weapon called genius
I will triumph over failure
Wish to turn their gossip about my wretchedness
To that of the most accomplished graduate
Those who understand my cry
Should match along with me into stardom...
It's a time top rejoice on all your achievements
it's a time to look back on what you have done
it's a time to move forward
it's a time to realize you'll miss it so much
it's a time where you'll smile and cry both at the same time
it's a time to say goodbye to those who changed your life
it's a time to those you don't want to leave
it's a time of graduation
the day you've been waiting for
the day you worked so hard for
it's here
you made it finally
standing there in your cap and gown
friends and family looking on
with tears in their eyes
tears of happiness and pride
calling out your name
as you get your diploma
the biggest smile on your face
the ceremony is over
now time to party
be with friends and family
and know in your heart and mind
you made it
this moment belongs to the graduates
all graduates
young and old
from first grade to college
this moment is yours
be happy
be blessed
be ready for the rest of your life
The more I look back on all the happy times
The easier it is for me to realize
That friends are much more then hellos and goodbyes
It all comes down to what you have inside.
Yes, some are good singers and some are athletic
But that doesn't matter (are you starting to get it?)
All that is important is the feeling inside
If your white or black or green or blue eyed.
For me to sit and say 'I wont miss this old place'
Is wrong and untrue (cant you tell it in my face?)
All the friends and teachers meant so much to me
I dont know any place that I'd rather be.
'Those were the days, ' I'd hear my parents say.
Charish their years...each and everyday
The people you'll meet and the places you'll go
And the hurt once thats gone is more then you'll know.
All my friends will be leaving and I''ll still be here
All my friends i'll be losing is my greatest fear
Promise you wont forget me as you go away,
Promise you'll be back to see me someday!
Before, you were a child.
Trying to know everything
in the world.
Experiencing new things
and working out problems.
Making new friends everyday.
Always so energetic and
full of speed.
Loved to watch cartoons
on the weekends.
Would go places with your
parents.
Now...
Your all grown up.
Moving through life as if
being lifted into the sky.
Making your own decisions.
Learning good and bad,
and hanging out with friends
more often.
A lot more homework and
a lot more responsibilities.
Wanting your own way.
Falling in love, and getting
a job.
Then before you know it,
your already graduating.
The happy memories from
before stay with you.
The pictures of the past are
kept in your heart.
The soft graduation music
starts playing.
Then... it's time.
As you walk down the aisle,
beautifully dressed, you think,
my life as a young adult has
begun.
I wonder what lies ahead of
me as I go down the path.
Then, before you know it,
it's over.
Your nervousness has passed
and your finally moving on.
Soon to go anywhere you want to.
Soon to be independant.
Your whole world spins as you
try to think of the past.
The future confuses you,
but it's ok.
Your just flying through life.
In the university of love,
Undergoing graduation course
is very difficult,
Sometimes syllabus detoured...
Graduations are for those selected few.
Relax your future is in view.
At last you've reached the finish line.
Done all you need. So stand and shine.
U are among the very best.
At school you've passed the final test.
To stand proud amongst your peers.
In time you've learned to face your fears.
On with your life. Your diploma in hand.
No better view from where you stand.
Graduation
Is it a a happy event
Or a sad one
Coz after what I've experienced today
It must be painful
Seeing my friends wave goodbye
Promising ourselves
Not to be separated by life
I hope this promise will never be broken
No matter where our dreams take us
No matter how many times life tries to separate us
We will always be great friends
Never strangers I hope
After the great times we've spent together
It was before that farewell moment
I felt so sad when I saw an empty class
I never thought this moment will ever come
I wanted a full one
Now when I think of graduation
The first thing that comes in my mind is
Who's gonna accept my selliness?
Who's gonna calm me down when I'm drowned in my hot tears?
Who's gonna tell me that everything's okay even though it's not
Dear  fellows,
Graduating is not all about school
But it is graduating from the life of teen age
Graduating from late childhood moments
To something more challenging
Something more fierce
But with the pictures we had in mind
Of those times
Of sharing a laugh
Will make it so much easier
The fact that we've been through a lot  and
These three years
Have made us stronger
It made us fighters
It shaped us into a HARD ROCK
so be proud of what we have done
Don't cry over spilt milk
After all, this life is a short journey
But we are doing our best to make it taste better
so now i can say
that graduation is a moment of a lifetime
in which we were transformed into ourselves.
When we got through our scholastic years
And have returned to youthful stomping grounds
Hello again to the sweet reality of being extramural
Relieved from reading tome upon heavy tome
Wanting in words to describe the relief the completion caused
From the rigors and hardships of a disciplined way of life
The august halls of the alma mater a prison now behind us
And the parchment scroll did seem irrelevant to our lives then
The college library had rude graffiti on its mottled walls
The carillon pealed from fractured bells tinny hymns
A heavy yellow pall spread clammily on the quadrangle
The dean was in disrespect, the faculty tainted, we were sure
But what of the mind, the nurturing of which, we
Unknowingly, surreptitiously had been honed to face
The challenges of a reality then far imagined
Clearing the muddled glasses of youthful views
Soon we realize that the years behind the ivied walls
Were not stones wasted and skimmed in an algae filled pond
Later as we mused and pondered complexities of existence
That would have stunned us dumb had we not persisted
You’ve completed a task
Set four long, hard years ago
To prove that you can last
In life’s commercial show.
But more than just that
You’ve experienced new places
In books and from chat
With exciting new faces.
And now you’re ready
To journey lonely paths
To give value, remain steady,
Facing recompense or wrath.
May God watch over you
And keep you in His toll
Strengthening the best in you
As you achieve your goal.
He he he
Passed my degree.
Who ever thought I could.
Who ever thought I would.
Wearing trencher, gown and robes.
Wearing ceremonial academic clothes.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
It's the hour of the graduation,
hope soars beyond imagination,
The hard work and sleepless nights,
are only the memories of the bygone days.
Feel free, as we always wanted,
Aim for the rosy future, as we always dreamt of,
Be, as we were meant to be.
The time has come for the,
exciting new life to begin,
The fear and anxiety of an unknown future,
don't even creep in mind.
The sweet touch of hugs and kisses,
from family and friends,
would be everlasting in the indebted heart.
the joy and happiness on their faces,
would be engraved forever in thoughts.
Feel free, as we always wanted,
Aim for the rosy future, as we always dreamt of,
Be, as we were meant to be.
Caps, gowns, tassels, shrouds
Seniors finally wear them
Congratulations
Completing education
Hats off for a new journey
This evening at another Granddaughter's graduation, this one from
high school with honors, student government, being a well-rounded
young woman of sixteen.
Going on to college, a wonderful experience that she's sure to en-
joy exclusively, all graduates now seated below in the auditorium
at the Arizona State Fairgrounds where it's being held.
There were far too many family members and friends in attendance
here tonight, color guard starting off the commencement, national
anthem being played by a guitarist, one of the graduates.
Speeches given in several students native languages, welcoming
everyone tonight, a young girl singing solo along with the Camel-
back High School band.
A beautiful voice, outstanding spiritual song, a terrific singer,
who will be remembered long after graduation, now graduates are
standing one row at a time to go upon the stage to receive their
individual diplomas and awards.
Many students gathered in front of us, proud and happy to have now
graduated tonight, our Granddaughter being called upon the stage now,
as we are clapping and yelling for her.
So proud of her accomplishments, heart's swelling with pride and joy
to see her, our young Granddaughter now a beautiful young woman, step-
ping out of childhood with a smile and goals in her mind.
All of which we're sure she will achieve, looking forward to attending
her college graduation in four years, she wants to be a teacher and
educate young children, a task she will be more than qualified for in
life.
Little Brother
No longer small
So grown up
So far to fall
Take my hand
And I’ll take yours
Rain or tears
Whichever pours
From eyes of blue
Clear reflection soul
I’ll take the wheel—be your escape
Pay the toll
I’m here whenever lightning strikes
Today—tomorrow
Tonight, tonight
I waited for too long, guarded with much expectation
swings my life through rise and fall, until I conquer the
one I adore, the might of the grade raises me to go in
the paper record I knew I can be strong, project, field
trips and test makes it all, wow! its a graduation
packages deal everybody is called
long live the teacher, in every lines they watch it fall, the
reason waking until dawn melted candles and eyebrows
in the table ants eat them all, as the student always pray
to pass making them luck in the end wisdom and fate
leads its way, laughter, jokes and smiling sway every day
for it’s the path to reach and catch every minutes and hour
of the day until the doorstep of the hall everybody love to
stay
mother and father watch as you walk in the pathways and
in the aisles you look like a baby as your smile in the
roof top, always make you happy, for graduation day your
friend and love one witness your beauty, just close and
breath as you could make it; the whole day is you to do
the best in you
see and reward the past, learn to vow the one you believe,
live the future and bring the past, know yourself forget the
wounded lies, be on guard the present is you to step, nay!
the future will come, for only the you is the one you adore
leave nothing that forget you, always be ready, only our love
will leads you in your way.....now go and Happy Graduation
Day.....in your life
Today you are graduating and getting ready for college,
To learn new things, to receive more knowledge.
Since you were born your parents have dreamt of this day,
They just wish they didn't have to send you away.
And though we're not here to celebrate this event,
We'll remember it forever, this everlasting moment.
This is the peak of success in your eighteeen years,
With more to come, we give you our cheers.
Down come the tears, good luck to you,
We'll see you again with a college degree too!
Sun setting before us, blazing gently against our eyes,
multitudes sitting, awaiting their son's and daughter's
graduation.
Excitement seeps between people, permeating the atmosphere,
quiet murmuring floating about the evening sky.
Down below us, folding chairs timidly standing upright on
the grass, waiting emptily for the teenagers who will soon
pass another milestone in their lives.
High School band, sitting quietly, bouncing notes and tunes
about their heads.
Creeping silently into view, red and white caps and gowns
grow below us, pride sits silently in our eyes, soon to flow
in the form of joyous tears.
Faculty filing in, taking their seats of ready achievement,
as silence filters through the crowd, allowing the speaker
his voice of congratulations.
Watching the procession file in with their caps circling
their heads, looking up and out, clouds can be seen circling
the heavens also.
As the sun continues to set on the far horizon, our son's
and daughter's lives are also setting on their futures,
gratuitous clapping for faculty and band quickly over, thank
God!
Hopes and dreams, tender and innocent fill the air as graduates
speak words, not knowing they are only beginnings of volumes
yet to come.
Forever young, the theme tonight, holds a thread which wishes
to stay forever, yet tomorrow will be forgotten.
Not on purpose is it ever done, age and years just seem to cover
over the dreams of the young.
Painted colors in the sky mix and blend, beginning to match
the colors of the caps and gowns worn below us on the football
field.
Voices ringing loudly, singing the Alma Mater to all, as
darkness swells and curls around us sitting in the bleachers,
yet lights shine down, reflecting on the graduating class.
The lives of many children wait breathlessly on edges of their futures, clinging ever so slightly to their pasts.
Musical words blast their way to our hearts, maybe a crumb or
note or two may remain for all ages, our future sons and
daughters remaining in our minds forever young.
Happiness fills the graduates as they receive their diplomas,
glee stands out for all of us to hear and see.
Riotous applause surrounds the sky as each diploma is handed
to a student, graduation being almost completed.
Mechanics of this graduation are over as the tassels are put
from left to right on every student's cap.
It's graduation!
A day supposed to be the happiest
The happiest at least in half a decade
And here on a molded parapet alone
Sat with visions blurred
And blinks with the speed of the clocks
It's graduation!
A day not as envisaged
With friends, love and family
In high praise and in great pride
In bliss and much merry
With fatted calves and drinks fizzy
It's graduation!
An end to a period of timelessness
In times of hunger and dreams unknown
In times of thirst and early wakes
Missions to accomplish in depths of stress
It's graduation!
A day that begins it all
You will march today to mark the end
of your midnight candles before books,
notes, bulk of papers and reminders;
marking, too, the end of restless nights
while facing practical tests and final exams.
Today you will march together
to be watched by great crowd of parents,
relatives and friends; today you will
receive your diploma of your hope and labor.
And today I watch you with great pride
and delight as your mother, looking at you
as a new registered nurse, who passed
your studies with incredible flying colors.
Congratulations, dear child!
Graduates - go forth and think positively about the future,
Even though the world is an unpredictable place
With everyday conflicts and disputes hovering over you.
A right attitude will enable you to cope and face.
You are a part of a growing movement in society,
Your generation will accomplish monumental things,
You can be a part of this fabulous movement now
If you are willing to embrace it and see what life brings.
Graduates who have been able to adapt to change
Have survived the years of turmoil in the world today.
Don't be fearful of finding exciting things to accomplish?
Don't miss out on everything that is important along the way?
Each graduate is unique and want different things.
Now is the time to decide which direction you will go,
The time to decide what kind of person you want to be,
A person who is afraid of change or one curious to know.
There's going to come to a point in your life
When you will need to be embraced and comforted too.
Always have the courage to follow your heart and intuition
And put forth your best effort in everything you do.
Remember - there is life after graduation.
We were so proud of Lindsay
On her graduation day
She turned a fresh new corner
So much she had to say
For she had passed a milestone
What special memories
So beautiful and so talented
With wonderful qualities
Whatever she chose to do
We knew she’d do it well
Her family looked happily on
Full of pride, we could tell
Of course there are always
Bumps rising in the trail
But with Lindsay’s determination
How could she possibly fail?
It’s so wonderful to watch
Young people at their peak
So willing and so ready
For it’s knowledge that they seek
So we look at Lindsay’s pictures
We knew that she’d go far
Whatever direction she took
She’d be our special star!
Lisa, today you’ve made us proud,
Proud, as proud can be,
For today, at the Barbican,
You’ve collected your Honour’s Degree.
A Degree in Graphic Design,
You’ve worked so hard to attain,
And the Standards you’ve set yourself,
Through Life, you should always maintain.
Put the Craft that you’ve learnt to good use,
Remember, put your Clients’ needs to the fore,
And then you will succeed in Life,
Dear Daughter, whom we do adore.
With Pride, we watched you receive
This Honour’s Degree today,
Watched by Family and Friends,
On this 29th November 2005 Tuesday.
© Jonathan Goldman [JGthepoet] – 29 November 2005
The heart leads back to Graduation Day,
to speakers addressing the graduates below,
to tales, excitement and joy shared.
and the face of proud parents set aglow.
A day when a graduate maybe a bit uneasy
and can't tolerate the end of an era anymore.
But, oh the merriment tucked inside -
Sweet memories of educational success and more.
A day when graduates have a flickering hope
and on their face they warmly portray -
peace to the heart, an inner glow.
and faith to enlighten the unknown way.
The heart leads back to struggles conquered,
making commencement such a memorable day.
Remembering the tears and convulsive sobs -
The pleasantries of school days will forever stay.
And some time later in the lingering
blaze of summer, in the first days
after September 11th you phoned –
if I don’t tell anyone my name I’ll
pass for an African American.
And suddenly, this seemed a sensible solution –
the best protection: to be a black man
born in America, more invisible than
Somalian, Muslim, asylum seeker –
Others stayed away that first Friday
but your uncle insisted that you pray.
How fortunes change so swiftly
I hear you say. And as you parallel
park across from the Tukwila
mosque, a young woman cries out –
her fears unfurling beside your battered car
go back where you came from!
You stand, both of you, dazzling there
in the mid-day light, her pavement
facing off along your parking strip.
You tell me she is only trying
to protect her lawn, her trees,
her untended heart – already
alarmed by its directive.
And when the neighborhood
policeman appears, asks
you, asks her, asks the others –
So what seems to be the problem
He actually expects an answer,
as if any of us could name it –
as if perhaps your prayers
chanted as this cop stands guard
watching over your windshield
during the entire service
might hold back the world
we did not want to know.
Only a a good student of love obtains graduation degree
A journey to remember
A trip so Full of laughter
memories unforgetable
adventures so beautiful
ITS TIME FOR FUN
ITS TIME TO TRY
ITS TIME FOR SUN
ITS TIME TO FLY
there are good times and bad
happy moments and sad
we used to cry together
we always comforted eachother
ITS TIME TO LEAVE
ITS TIME TO TRY
ITS TIME TO GRIEVE
IT TIME TO SAY GOODBYE
Happy Graduation Day,
And what better nation is there than America for Graduation,
Let's celebrate in any and every way.
Mom has the cake,
Lisa is two and wondering what wish you'll make,
This is a great day, and thank God it is not fake,
Although I wish that I could taste the snowflake that isn't here,
We will need a designated driver,
Because today is one day to drink at least a beer.
Today is a day to have no fear,
If I believed in hunting I would eat some deer.
I wish Marla could be here,
She was taken at a young age,
I wish Ladonna could be here,
She is one reason to race for every cure.
I am not going to look in the mirror,
That would give me an image looking back,
And I am never going to look back, that is a fact.
Note to readers: I am not a graduate yet, but this is just something that came to mind to write.
Sitting high upon the bleachers to get a good view of the made-up
stage.
A castle drawbridge with banners flying above it, the backdrop
for the walkway soon to be walked upon by many outstanding students.
Announcements, Star Spangled Banner, Pledge of Allegiance, and noted
teachers making their speeches.
At last, students standing row by row, single file, waiting for
their names of distinction to be called.
An eternity goes by, then suddenly my son is standing, walking,
waiting to be called onto the imaginary red carpet, as he strides
proudly across the walkway suspended slightly in the air.
Then it happens, they call his name, mispronounce it, but my son
walks without any hesitation or break in stride, to receive his
diploma, his moment in the spotlight.
Tears in my eyes, I quietly clap with dignity for my son, I
couldn't be prouder, my love for him overflowing.
Such a joyous moment in the life of a Mother, there are no words
to express how proud I am of him.
This moment in time reminding me of past moments in his life when
I was proud to be his Mother.
And now, once again, he has touched my life with his achievement
and I can only say, so humbly, how very proud I am, to be his
Mother.
(5/16/96)
ON YOUR GRADUATION DAY
(To my child, Melly Rose)
Melvin Banggollay
The hurdle my child is not yet over
I said when we went to the stage together
On this special day you finished another
ladder of life as graduates like the others.
But as soon as we were on the stage
I felt how my loving father rejoiced
On this day I heared many adage
of distinguished student's   turmoils.
When I heared one of the graduates
Narrating the unselfish sacrifices
Of his father who died before he graduates
Teardrops fell like unbroken necklaces
As I behold how my own father radiates
a love so full with care full of traces.
When you gave me your diploma
As token of your great  sacrifices
My eyes was filled with sweet aroma
of  thousand flowers tenderness
as my eyes build a million aurora
For you didn't turned down my sacrifices
but nurtured them for your own success.
Congratulation dear beautiful child of mine
for doing what is best that can help you define
The future that lies ahead untill you can fine
destiny of your fate that your faith entwine.
Stand strong and never  surrender
As trials come in your way while you harbor
to define your own life amidst great strife
But have faith  and you can have a better life
and all things can happen with God's power
If faith unto Him your load and charger.
Writen on my child's gradution as nursing student this march 25,2009 at MCNP, Tugegarao, Cagayan.
We often live reminiscing the past
as another graduation day comes around.
Thoughts of our classmates and teachers
in our memory will always be found.
We remember the school days of yesteryear
and revel them with gentle care,
that once we knew when we were just
youngsters growing up without a dare.
Through the fleeting days of our education,
We built our agenda of many dreams
from elementary school to secondary school.
It was merely only a step it now seems.
We miss all the activities that once was ours
and the blessing that we were always free.
We live them over ever graduation day
with pleasant thoughts and glee.
Far too quickly the passing of time,
even though satisfying be the ways
that lure us back to yesteryear
to the events of other school days.
Though another graduation day shall end,
One goal for all graduates to hold,
May your education always bring good fortune
and happiness and success a hundred fold.
The path of life before them lies
as elated graduates take stride.
Parents' eyes focused on their footsteps
as they listen to ceremonial music with pride.
Graduates know not yet their future.
They only know they will hopefully soar..
These graduates, a product of a school
that they now will cherish even more.
Parents watch as a son/daughter embarks on life,
their endeavors and what they will be.
They wait for days with an anxious wonderment,
A graduates future long to see.
One should appreciate the gift of graduation,
and wisely choose an occupation or professional plan,
For in the end, a graduate will mighty be,
but now must rest in another hand.
No need to be confined in a net of knitted straws
no need to be afraid of lightning and thunders of the clouds
no need to hide behind the feathers of a mother bird
now you don't need the shoulders of a father bird.
The gown you wore is enough to protect you in the flights to come.
My daughter bird I know it's raining heavily
lightning and thunders of the clouds are frightening
but the gown is an umbrella against all evils of the clouds
ignoring the evils of the clouds be safe and secured
in the beautiful rains the clouds provide,
the pleasant winds will bounce back a little mild showers you need.
Beauty of rains is infinite and its threats are finite.
Now fly below the skies and pluck the twinkling diamonds.
We are here in the nest, the same old knitted net of straws.
Let us pay thanks to the kind and benevolent ancient light
filtered through the greenery of a tree
reflected and refracted that are still showing mini rainbows.
Forming a beam of shining dust particles of aging,
with a positive approach we can see even dust as a beauty.
Let us capture memories of incubating a beautiful egg
let us forget the fatigues of incubation,
and let us pay thanks to God who bestowed upon us
and gave us a right egg for incubation!
I'M not kicking on expenses, now the sewing time commences,
I will buy chiffon and laces till they say they've got enough;
Sure her dress for graduation shall excite the admiration
Of the masses who behold her; it shall be the finest stuff.
She shall even carry roses, when her high school training closes,
For she's worthy of the finest that there is in all the town;
But I sometimes sit and ponder of the days away off yonder
When her mother graduated in a simple gingham gown.
I have watched the fuss and bustle, and this ceaseless rush and hustle,
And I've listened to the planning of this graduation dress,
And I know when all is ended, she will make a picture splendid,
And I wouldn't be contented if she didn't, I confess.
But I still recall the other glorious picture of her mother,
With her cheeks as pink as peaches and her hair a golden brown,
As I gazed at her enraptured, and my heart, I know, she captured
On the day she graduated in her simple gingham gown.
I'd be laughed down if I said it, in such matters they don't credit
Me with knowing what is really very swell;
I can picture now their faces, if instead of silk and laces,
My preference for gingham, I should tell.
But with me it's grown a passion, and in spite of style and fashion,
And what women folks think needful, I insist and write it down,
I shall never see another quite so charming as her mother
On the day she graduated in her simple gingham gown.
Graduation, an aspiration
An empowerment and a pathfinder
Where a bright future one can expect
With lot of hopes, and much efforts
The great universities, colleges
The studies, assignments, and all
Graduation, the parent's concern
On their little ones future
Their own life ambitions, all included
The books, periodicals, charts
The computer skills, the libraries
The mind wandering with all materials
Beautiful concern for knowledge.
A girl who is seventeen,
A girl who is Rory Gilmore,
A girl that walks with confidence,
A girl who always leaves the door open to endless possibility.
As enemies in high school,
Hatred ran through the veins of Jordyn Parker for me,
Jordyn and I both wanted to be lawyers,
I was accepted into Yale University, while Jordyn was not.
Chilton High School was the beginning of a tragic ending,
Only two valedictorians in the school,
I was one, Jordyn was the other,
The other chose to make herself absent.
A palace like structure was the place of Jordyn's disappearance,
All the lights were off in the building except for the auditorium,
The last time Jordyn was seen was at around 5: 00 p.m.,
The schedule was to begin at 7: 00 p.m.
Shock engulfed me leaving me helpless,
My heart began to beat faster and faster,
A silhouette could be seen in a room,
As I began to walk towards the room it too moved.
Graduation consumed my mind,
Graduation had consumed my mind for the past twelve years,
Where was she,
How could she not afford to not represent herself?
Jordyn passed away at 6: 55 p.m.,
All she needed was some direction,
Jealousy was the outline behind the sheet of actions,
In a letter she stated, 'the world is looking out for you.'
Tragedy at Graduation.
Upon her graduation from law school
i see that picture
her husband beside her and the
(adopted)  child wrapped in her arms
time mends everything
like a grafted branch of a tree
the leaves grew from buds
and soon
the flowers bloom giving its
sweet scent to the air
for everyone to smell
the force of life knows always
where to go what to do what to fill up
and when
no one notices anyhow
the smiles cover what once was very lacking....
does much to serve the good that we receive'
When embarking upon the pulpit
honor your perseverance;
your kindness for others;
as well as the respect and integrity
you have shown to the men and
woman that have invested in your future.
Hold your head high, you have reached
the goal that you have challenged
throughout life.
This morning going to my Granddaughter's kindergarten graduation,
her little eyes and face lit up like a lantern, smiling beautifully,
running to give us a hug.
Going into the auditorium, sitting down, watching crowds of parents
and Grandparents storming in with younger kids and babies in tow, a
much bigger crowd than the school had expected.
Adding chairs and benches on either side of the bleachers to accomo-
date us all, kindergarteners sitting on the floor in front of us,
looking around, talking and waving.
Six kindergarten classes, a lot of children, picking my Granddaughter
out of them all, wearing a beautiful blue dress and white shoes with
a little heel.
Her brown hair flowing, a smile on her face, singing with her class
and performing all rhythmic motions, a totally wonderful experience
watching her graduate with honors and awards.
A blessed event in our family that will always be remembered in
pictures and this little poem written by her poetical Grandma, a
future treasure when I'm no longer here.
Humans always in craze for wealth
For accumulation of wealth he runs fast
The thorny ways, deep pits and hills
No matter what becomes to his soul
The greed always shuts the divine ways
Slowly it becomes the habit
No matter what others sees in him
The material enjoyment he prefer always
The charity to the needy for namesake
Greed destroys the wise character
The greedy seeks the way of narrowness
Where ultimately it is self destruction
The destruction of the humanness
When in ultimate reality awakens him
He is on the horns of dilemma, that hounds
Only legitimate creative action saves
To lead a comfortable life of enjoyment.
Furious attacks by Nature as earthquakes and storms,
Heart breaking scenes, are horrible imprints in mind!
Why is Nature so harsh to mankind remaining calm long?
Many poets have appreciated its beauty, grandeur, mercy
Almost to the level of Supreme Creator of all everywhere!
But Nature shows its other face though Moon hides ever!
Materialist man has taken for granted Nature's love for all
Just us we all breathing air forget ourselves of its existence!
Perhaps that's the case Nature shows its wrath of its presence!
Nay, man's blunder in exploiting natural resources beyond limit
Without any sense of recycling them at all and selling farms
For urbanisation of villages Nature shows its wrath so harsh!
Instead of thanking Nature's generous gesture man destroys
All like the greedy man who killed goose to take all golden eggs!
Greediness for sensual pleasures -
Most obnoxious and low!
A man becomes a brute
When he follows
His base, animal instinct!
He chases the evil which secretly resides
Within himself!
He knows no better
Than his treacherous passions
And to awaken the immoral mind!
When the mind focuses only on sex,
He becomes a slave of undesirable passions!
His mind refuses to think,
His brain negates reason,
He loses his sense of balance,
And above all,
He wastes his vital force,
The power of the universe,
The wonderful vitality,
Lost in immoral actions!
Sexual misconduct like rape is a grave sin!
It becomes unpardonable,
When forced upon,
Or brutally imposed upon on an innocent soul!
A sexual misdemeanour is
The most horrifying act,
An act of grave violence,
To be condemned!
For a sexual pervert ‘Ahimsa' is
Totally alien and incomprehensible!
The money greed is not a simple greed.
Yes! One needs money to live,
Only to live a contented life,
Not to get wrapped in avarice.
The greed that envelops
To hoard and collect,
To possess much more than one needs,
Verily, is money greed!
Avarice for possessions is
A serious habitual trait,
A grave hindrance,
To the practice of 'Ahimsa'!
A fanatic desire for material goods,
To acquire more and more,
By fair or foul means,
Leads one astray!
Accumulating, enveloping oneself with
Innumerable goods, articles and structures,
Leads to much confusion,
Leaves little place for vital air!
To stand or sit -
Does one require much space?
To sleep on a bed -
Does one need more than a few square feet?
Do we ever think or reflect?
How much space we require when we die,
To be buried or to be burnt?
Just a bare strip of earth!
Yet, we forget this fact,
We continue in our material pursuits,
Ever greedy and avaricious,
Hounded by hundreds of things!
We spend our quality life
Pursuing money and material!
In this race of life,
Does ‘Ahimsa' ever figure?
On the contrary,
In the pursuit of pleasures,
It is infliction of pain, misery,
Careless and callous!
The most vicious and dangerous
Is the power greed!
This stems from an enormous
Ego!
Not an ordinary sized ego
But much, much bigger than
A mountain!
It is not like a solid structure either
Because an ego keeps growing
And expanding,
Moving and leaping
Into gigantic proportions!
It seldom diminishes,
It is like a balloon filled with helium,
Bloating and floating high in space!
The power greed stems from the
"I" sense.
Not the simple,
"I am the owner of this house"
But the notoriety of
"I want to be the owner of this earth."
The power greed is never satisfied,
It asks for things, again and again.
The greed plans the strategies,
As how one could be crowned as
The Dictator!
To be dreadfully important,
Powerfully holding everything under the thumb,
Not just people or countries,
But Mother Earth too!
All along the way,
Of becoming a powerful emperor,
The greedy pursuits are accompanied
By various ‘Himsas'!
Each thought, word, or deed
Is a game plan,
To cut and wipe out,
Annihilate and destroy,
The innocent ones!
When each cell of the body
Pulsates with power greed,
How can ‘Ahimsa' be practised?
To demolish the power-greed
One has to scorch the seed of
The violent and powerful ‘I'!
We have to remember that
'We eat to live - not live to eat.'
But this line is forgotten
By most of us!
The palate greed craves for food,
It is not just hunger but a reckless habit!
The mouth chews continuously,
Straining the jaw muscles
And the palate!
Like we need rest after a day's labour,
So does the digestive system needs to pause,
From constantly churning the food bolus!
The salivary glands,
The gastric glands,
The Brunner's glands,
The glands of Liberkuhn,
Become hyperactive and
Vastly enzymatic!
When the stomach and intestine,
Work at double speed
And overtime,
Obviously, the result is
Acidity and
Indigestion!
A glutton can never think
Beyond the stomach!
The question posed here -
Can such a person practise ‘Ahimsa'?
May be! May be not!
A glutton may not harm others but
He harms himself with excess food!
The demon speaks to me.
He writes all these squiggly lines.
They glow and come alive.
They become these characters dancing upon the pages in my mind.
Each one has his own name.
Jacob, John, Sarah and James.
Brothers sisters the way it should be.
A dad that always been their.
A mom that actually cares.
A refuge from the dead place I live in everyday.
A mastery of plays.
A white picket fence, painted so perfectly.
Erected out a child imagination.
Please he needs to be fed.
Can you not see hes living in filth and starvation.
But we always turn away.
Just burn it all to the ground.
Its okay just look into the clouds.
Ignorance is bliss but if you take it too far it becomes the ugliest indifference.
The creature manifest and comes to his own.
He starts corrupting the hearts and souls within.
Greed will be his tool to the absence minded fools.
To busy staring at their t.v.
Playing with their nifty gadgets.
Driving their fancy cars nice and warm.
No care in the world.
Why should they ever have to?
To blame, we should all have to write of what we are ashamed.
The nameless name.
A hollow tube stuck down some old mans throat not because he will live any longer.
But because it does not pay if he dies.
The world has been compromised.
Confidential are so many of the lies.
Put it all in the open.
Show us the contract in which sign on too the slavery of society that doesn't care about you.
Their is no golden rule that will forever protects you.
Go ahead just try to write something in stone.
A realization that in the end that you might be all alone.
Love is not freely given.
But always expected in return.
Always expected in return.
Long ago in a far away land
Ruled a evil King with a strong hand
He was mean and he was cruel
Such a man should never rule.
He had a daughter and a loving wife
Two tall sons and a marvelous life
His lack of appreciation for what he had
Made the King’s family very sad.
Gold coins piled high with plenty for his needs
Could not satisfy the King’s vast greed
He taxed his Subjects and he stole their land
Issuing proclamations full of bold demands
The beautiful Princess– no longer a girl
Gave her hand in marriage to a handsome Earl
Rode away with her husband on a prancing steed
Leaving behind the King consumed with greed
The oldest son loved adventures, games, and sport
He soon grew weary of the boring court
Where nothing occupied his royal father’s day
But thinking of ways to make his Subjects pay.
One fine day the Prince could stand no more
Made plans to head for a distant shore
Strapped on armor and a sharp-edged sword
Sailed far away to fight a distant war.
The King took no notice of his children’s flight
He sat counting money all through the night
The youngest son stopped as he went to bed
Stood watching the King and sadly shook his head.
The Prince worried about his father – his mother, too.
He wished that he knew the best thing to do
Nothing good could come of the King’s evil gain
Seeing his parents drift apart gave the young man pain.
Finally the Queen, with a broken heart
Sighed and climbed aboard a rickety cart
She used this vehicle to steal away
One early morning at the break of day.
Riding along behind a long-eared mule
She cursed her husband for being a fool.
Through the Village Square; past a flowing fountain
The Queen drove her mule up a towering mountain.
A magical genie lived on the mountaintop
Reaching the wizard’s home, the queen did stop.
That she would be found, she had no fears,
Here the Queen could be safely hidden for years.
No one knew the Queen was alive and well -
No one but the youngest son who would not tell.
The Queen sent her son a note inside an ancient ring
and begged him not to tell his father, the King.
Sitting in his castle on his massive throne
One day the King realized that he was all alone.
There was dirt on the windows and on the floor
He hadn’t eaten all day – and his stomach was sore.
The King cursed loudly and then yelled for his wife
She had always cared for the desires of his life
“Why has she deserted me? ” the poor man moaned
“She could have left a note – or she could have phoned.”
Ah, but the Queen was happy and very content
She only regretted the lost years she had spent
Worshiping at the feet of the man she called “Honey” -
Catering to the man who loved nothing but money.
atmosphere
provide
oxygen
atmosphere
provide
carbon dioxide
atmosphere provide
for plants animals
seal in an ecosystem
atmosphere
guardian part
of water cycle
complex interactions
elements in atmosphere
without atmosphere
there would
be possible
no life at all
give me a little
of my God given air
of my God created air
give me a little
so i may breathe in renewed
complex wonder of creation
pollution sticks in my throat
burns eyes throat burns
mankind is burning creation
can’t breathe this
greed
industrialization
give
me less greenhouse
gases
earth pump
as God created
engineered
give me
a little
clean air
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Since time immemorial man lives in harmony with Nature;
But with the scientific inventions and technological progress
Man has slowly drifted from his habit due to domination of
Profit motive of commercial interests spreading far and wide!
Modernization of nations and coming of civilization sans
Touch with human culture have disturbed the course of Nature
Leading to climate changes bringing long droughts and heavy
Cyclonic wind and rain flooding many nations frequently now!
Not bothering about recycling of natural resources in his hurry
In exploiting Nature for raw materials, fuels and foods, man has
Brought upon himself the wrath of Nature that balances itself
With drastic measures by bringing hottest days and biting winters!
Unless man changes his attitude and way of living in harmony
With Nature all things can't be set right to normalcy forever....!
It's long since I stopped believing in human wisdom.
Long since I stopped distinguishing wisdom of the old - and
Stupidity of the new generation
It's un-intelligible to know what the new generation does differently
Within the organismic experiences of life
-But isn't this the problem!
Or is it that the older generation have become the epitome of every evil?
As youths make no decisive legislation
On climate change
War
Waste disposal
Gender equality
Racism
Human trafficking
Migration
Marriage
political repression!
The wisdom of the older generation have always reigned!
But nothing has changed
Many like them drown in the seas,
cold and terrified
to find solutions
The same prematurely die on wetness of their blood in the streets with unwanted wounds. Or stupor
I have seen the older-generation diving us into black-holes
Of despicable practices in the name of patriotism, religion and color
All seemingly wiser
and all-knowing
Although our conspicuousness rightly haunts us
As beneath it all, we know the truth - and it's all on greed
It's demonic nature is encapsulated in the tongues of decency
and diplomacy - or sometimes - political correctness!
It's all in the appetite for repressive power
-But isn't this the problem
Or should we just believe because they've said, we're the future
While we're soothingly killing this uncertain future - who knows?
- But isn't that the problem?
Or is it that the youth have lost their ways?
The youths!
They've hardly known what they need!
Hardly in control of themselves - most of them are rabid
Retracting not from the facade path of the older generation
Instead they as their mothers, have become custodians of
Hatred
Arrogance
Drunkenness
Confusion
Ungodliness like their lost fathers
The spring of all evils!
-But isn't that the problem?
That we've become drawn into darkness
As we resent the light?
That we question every simplicity of life
Preferring to align with its complexities
- making life unknown
Creating a world Where truth and facts, lies and slanders
simply switch places
As all we need is who says them and how they say them to us.
Where we believe our realities are different and indistinguishable to
- Darkness and Light
- But isn't this the problem?
Or is it the choices we make
- and
What and Who we are taught
To love
To hate
To despise
To assist
And religion - But not God - to be loyal to?
A food bubble ready to burst?
Cuz speculators on Wall Street
Drive high food prices to their worst,
To bank big buck bets as we eat.
Some say deregulation made
A mess of food demand/supply.
The have nots hungry, while haves trade
To make money on sell or buy.
Most haves worry most of their worth
In terms of money and eat well,
While hunger ravages the Earth.
Fat cat heaven makes hunger hell.
Money feeds the global food biz.
What of we eat wherein greed tiz.
There is love and fear
only two diving boards
Guess which gives and
guess who hoards?
From FEAR stems
a survival instinct
Reason soon leaves,
reaction- no think
Fearful they are of death
and the end
Grab all they can
and try to defend
When death's illusion
dies rattling
There will be
cessation of battling
We'll never run out,
there is more than enough
Go with abundant flow
it's really not tough
Drop the body
when it is time
fly the heck outward,
the real YOU, sublime
The history of Earth dates back to millions of years ago,
When a perfect engineer, ‘the God’, created this world.
He made life in forms of plants and animals,
And for all gave them Earth - the abode.
The plants and animals lived in ideal harmony,
And there was no trace of agony.
Everybody sought merely what was required,
Nothing superfluous anybody acquired.
The man came at the end
And learnt expeditious for himself to fend.
Soon he realized the powers he had,
And it drove him nearly mad.
For others he had no regard,
With nature he remained forever at odds.
He amassed much more than needed,
“Be Cautious” - the nature pleaded.
Soon the environment was left degraded.
Animals and plants slowly faded.
Towards catastrophe the world headed,
And hasty correction was severely needed.
Mercifully, man has now realized,
The world has sufficient for everyone’s’ need
But if overexploited
It would succumb to man’s greed.
Today he is trying to reverse the cycle
By protecting Mother Nature so vital.
Almighty forgive mistakes of your creation
And give him strength for positive action
To prevent this world from extinction.
AMEN
Oh this vain world, gigabytes of greed seized,
With more ever the more, less and less pleased,
Pitted as is with marginal returns,
A goods train of greed trudging on loose tracks
Truth paying tithe to logic it much lacks,
From need to greed, to coveting when turns,
The vulture1 vies when voracity kissed.
And lo, if greed on wings falls way behind,
Forget if learned lament recession,
The world would fairly well-off itself find,
Call it a benign cooling of passion,
Dampening of red greed and blasé desire,
That fueled markets to a raging fire,
O at last on a greed-starved way to wind
In a world void of vultures with greed blind.
_____________________________________________ ________
1. Vulture represents greed, from Sanskrit gridha, to covet, greed. From this comes gidha, vulture in Hindi.
An atypical sonnet this, equally divided in two halves, no Pythagorean divide.
_____________________________________________ _______
Sonnets | 04.04.13 |
You are unseen but also captured
In minds of many you are featured,
You divert the child well nurtured,
On grazing by you animals are pastured.
Watching the innocent baby new born
You wait and hide to catch with turn,
While child grows little you blow horn
He starts telling things are my in morn.
You are just like colour changing lizard,
You fill in man really negative wizard.
In minds of many you do bring blizzard,
Fishes and birds enter food to gizzard.
By getting you animals loose a steer,
Birds fly with tending to fall with fear,
They fall in confusion who live in sheer,
You motivate for crime and sticks smear.
You do spoil life oh go away oh greed
People fight for hand of land, and seed.
Please do not stay for negative breed,
People are with God now and in creed.
God don't give me greed
Give me more hope and sweet dreams
Don't make me jealous
He wanted to study, but he was forced to work,
He had to earn for his family, this, he could not shirk.
He used to work hard and bore his family's load,
He spent many nights, on the bench by the road.
All he begged was for a proper meal,
But to help the poor, had nobody the zeal?
He tried educating himself without anyone's help,
He didn't want to be looked upon as a poor little whelp.
He had big dreams of becoming rich and acquiring property,
But these were all crushed by one word - poverty.
A person shouldn't be judged on the basis of being rich or poor,
But one's pride and vanity is what attracts them to this lure.
He was rich at heart, but had no money,
All people saw was a man who looked funny.
He wanted to leave a mark in the world, wanted to make a name,
But what stopped him was society's barrier of money, status and fame.
He tried to resist them, tried not to hear,
He battled his way through and overcame his fears.
He was becoming successful, people started to appreciate him,
He wanted to achieve more and hence became grim.
But soon he realised, he could not get his way,
Unless he obliged someone and by luck, got away.
He thought once, he thought twice, but still followed his intuition,
Knowing, that it would divert him from his mission.
He knew what the consequences were very well,
But poverty all over again, was just as good as hell.
He wasn't himself anymore, he had been consumed by greed,
That might've been the reason that led him to commit a misdeed.
He had risked it all, unfortunately, luck was not in his favour,
But this wrong deed was more than just a misdemeanour.
Now in jail, humiliated, bankrupt and full of regret,
He stabbed himself and ended his life's vignette.
His life could have been better, he could have had it all,
If he was happy and unsatisfied, would have just been a squall.
He stood at the cliff of goodness, right above the abyss of greed,
But it was too tempting, he jumped right into it, all just to bleed.
Spat out of the mouth of Satan
Comes forth a needy demon
With desires exploding
Out of proportion
On the souls of selfish Victims
His ambitions forgets good morals
Hunger fuel in rage
Passion burns insane
His thirst should be quench
Craving fed, yeaning comforted
Give him more, give him more!
His hunger is driving him insane
His thirst must always be quench!
Yearnings well comforted!
Give him more! give him more
Even if he takes his victims to hell
His hunger will never be fed!
.....August 3rd 2009
All rights Mister Eyan Desir.....
Although America did not invent greed
It certainly made renovations when it purchased that institute
And gave it gaudiness attractive for a car salesman;
No other empire in the world can lay claim to being founded
On the principals of debt, Credit Ratings and Insurance Premiums
As a vehicle to facilitate global supremacy in the economic markets
There's know other country in the world who puts a higher price in freedom
Then America who sells it for a good premium quid pro quo
Infidelity is the beneficiary
Of the capitalistic spirit
Perhaps the Romans would have survived
Had they invested in a credit line
You enter with greed;
You exit with fear.
You love with greed;
You fail with fear.
But
You are born with fear
And will die with greed.
Greed is the drive;
Fear is the break.
Drive ahead, minding the head.
27.05.2001, Pmdi
Greed                                                                  Is                                                                    A disease, but                                                          One's avarice                                                         Is an ugly sickness, so                                                There are                                                              People                                                                Who are                                                               Greedy                                                                 Anywhere and                                                            Everywhere.
Greed...  Is half of humanity, the other is money. Could humans fix the corrupted senses of it's own soul, and heal the mental outer body of our full self? No we can't because that's what makes us human. Money will never buy one enternal happiness, but is money serving as a distraction to further intelligence or is it just all life is and will be. Greed and money will always be there, but it's up to us to control it.
Greed and obsession
Money has lot more roles to play
And hold sway
Over men's desire
To remain admired
It creates position
When relatively found good relation
Consolidated enough clout
And talked about
Not only have you become greedy
But get ready
To perform any thing
That is unworthy of something
People resort to murder
When find no means to alter
Economic condition
And social position
So prosperity has become yardstick
With strict
Inclination and possession
And obsession too
Greed breeds greed
First add and then,
Multiply,
And then raised to powers,
Again searching
Doing subtraction,
Then division,
Then revision,
Then fills frustration,
Then illustration,
Flung and hurried,
Then buried,
Finally freed,
Greed breeds greed,
©2014 Aftab Alam Khursheed. All rights reserved
Vultures
Perched in office
Feed on bloated paychecks
Decayed people not carrion yet
Fight back.
----
(June 24,2009 Tarlac City Philippines)
Can you sleep
Knowing that
You killed her?
Her damned life
Needed you
Your power
Some sucking
Energy
From your plant
Your damn greed
Stole her life
Can you now sleep
Knowing she's dead?
Greed for unjust gain!
Corruption in the country,
Seen everywhere;
For the lack of wisdom my people perish! !
Because, they are not ready for the works of the truth.
This is what many fall in trap of it is greed
For many desires it originates does breed.
Seed is the attachment towards all matters,
For wealth, money or food it always flatters.
This is a vice originates from a clumsy mind,
Nobody understands it opens branch in wind.
Like spreading of spider's web it does catch,
Person who falls in its clause does not fetch.
Many do crime falling in love of greed here,
People get tortured by them and get fear.
They bear fruits of sins as do in greed later,
Even they do not like to leave know better.
It is truly said sins are acquired from greed,
Sins with bondage take towards death seed.
Richer to richest fall down and commit crime,
Greedy persons think only wealth is the prime.
Not only the greed brings sorrow but also pain,
Due to capture of illusion, wrong things we gain.
Matters are the motivators and are cause of sad,
Greed is a deadly vice pauses life and really is bad.
Greed goes away while we all do meditate God,
Mind stabilizes rules over senses catches pod.
Greed nods before pure mind and leaves place
By grace of God we gain purity and win the race.
Greed Is Out
Greed is out,
Yes, yes, let’s shout,
Again and again:
Greed is out.
Let’s spout, let’s shout!
Realized pain
And unrealized gain
Are not taxable.
Political contributions
Are not deductible.
No stock options!
The Stock Market
Lost its jacket
And its pants.
Common sense
Must prevail.
No bail, no bail,
For the crooked billionaire;
It is just, it is fair
To lock him up
‘Cause he is at the very top
Of the super-kleptomaniac list.
He is a mad genius;
He killed telepathically,
And he loved fame and money.
What a disgrace!
What a dishonest face!
No bail, no bail,
For such a whale!
Stock him in jail,
Squish him in hell,
Greed is out,
Let’s spout, let’s shout!
Copyright© March 2009, Hebert Logerie, All Rights Reserved
Hébert Logerie is the author of two poetry books:
“Sparkles of Love and Etincelles de l’Amour”
Hébert Logerie is the author of “Mounts And Valleys of Love”
https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359
PLEASE ORDER AT ORDERS@XLIBRIS.COM OR CALL 1-866-957-5010!
Greed is the biggest threat to our civilization
It destroys families and it can bring down the nations
Greed is one of the  most dangerous desires in human nature
It’ so bad that it can turn human to heartless creature
Greed is the source of financial and social trouble
If is not contain, it can turn earth to the ruble
Greedy person doesn’t believe in values and doesn’t feel guilty
Money to him is like salt water, as he drinks more he gets more thirsty
If human can control his greed
Then world become heaven, that’s what we really need
Like never before.
Ever before.
Just to feed the greed of elites.
Just to feed the greed of elites.
Religion and politics,
Are more in the mix today.
Using God to start conflicts.
And doing this at their benefit.
Like never before.
Just to feed the greed of elites.
Leaving people everywhere to weep.
Leaders of hypocrisy.
For profits pocketed to not be ended.
Creating enemies to distract.
A misreading of their thieving acts.
Just to feed the greed of elites.
Like never before.
With a doing to make more people poor.
People are scammed into mayhem.
By fanatics using politics.
And those claiming faith to bait,
As tools to deceive them quick to trick...
Into conflicts!
Just to keep the feeding of elites.
Leaders of hypocrisy.
Religious and political fanatics.
Profiting to pocket and deceiving,
People left on knees to weep.
Like never before.
To not end.
Like never before.
Early bird gets the worm
In her greed eats too much
Gets indigestion
Falls flat on stomach
Stamped on by late comers!
'You're my very good friend' she said
We have so much in common...
All the plans and schemes-hopes and dreams...! ! !
And the use of our most gifted Shaman;
'Do ya think that we can get away with this'she asked
I mean ya know whats been said...
That too many cooks often wreck the stew...!
Causin' our plans to fall down dead;
'I mean i'm a little worried that we might get exposed' she said
And if we are what would we all do? '
Would we all turn on one another...
About our: 'Greed Green Back Stew'? ;
'I'm sorry i've got these doubts'-she said
But ya know that they are viable...
I'm just scared almost 'Honest'...
In the face of possible libel;
Cuz i've heard that what goes 'round often comes back to you...
And ya know that Karma thing is usually true...
Plus its been said that the root of all evil is: Greed...!
And in the end we will reap all that we do;
I know that we are tight friends and ALL...
But golly Gee-golly Sun...
Just have this feeling in my gut...
We're all going to be punished for the things we have done;
Forget about friends in high places or relatives there...!
Forget about those who said they would always care...! !
Cuz ya know in the end if we fall it was cuz we were exposed bare...
And what we have coming to us is only fair;
A write about the many different rings that operate in the world
Its victims and the consequences that follow after many years and
Years of long and expensive hidden investigation.  Rings that operate as a network making victims out of ordinary people like you and me Who try to take from us what is rightfully ours.
Don't you be a victim too!
Underneath The Umbrella
1974-2010
I pour blue water from my pen
To bask in wilderness, a thirsty page
To garnish with words, a hueless page
To tenderly fill love on the emptiness of a page
To beautify with rhymes a bland page
Or is it my prurient soul's poesy-lust
.....Might....life exist
Through sake of chance
......Some odd result
Of happenstance
Or is...what is
...Supposed to be...
Ordained precise
......By destiny
*
*
*
*
Must then...we live
..To...simply die
From greed of death
..For want...of why
Grasping hands
of the powers that be
trying to take
what is ours
Soon we will not own
the years of our lives
With pain in neck he walked around,
all alone with just a frown.
All he wanted was there,
but reaching it seemed unfair.
All he wanted to do, he could,
But always wondered if he should.
What could he do with all his money?
all his expensive belongings seemed funny.
He had a mansion, garden a car,
but all the love was really far.
With pain in neck he walked around,
all alone with just a frown.
He deserved it, he totally did,
it was all because of his greed.
A young man, when he was,
he never even tried to measure his loss.
Now creeps him a pain,
when his dungeon walls are old and stained.
His billion pounds now have no use,
all he has lost, now what is there to loose?
With pain in neck he walked around,
all alone with just a frown.
Limited is the need,
Unlimited is the greed,
Engaged in misdeed,
I ignore your bleed.
Two pieces of cloth and a piece of bread,
Can keep me alive, I'll not be dead,
Shelter of a roof not touching the sky,
I can walk with feet don't need to fly.
But I want the greed,
How dire is the need,
Of a peace making deed,
See the painful bleed.
Peace of hearts and peace brains,
I should have it, no refrains,
Unlimited is this need,
And limited is my greed.
Greed is a twin of graveyard
Its never says enough
Never ever filled to the brim
Its never contented
Greed is voluptuous
Always quest for self alone
Like vultures haunting for caracass
Greed is restless for more
Ever tight-fisted
Ever wanting to amass more
Till it becomes bloated
With materials unneedful
Always seeking vanity
Until its labour is naught
I find it impossible to understand
How greed and power destroy nations
How its left carry on unabated
People power has to call a halt
The media owned by multinationals
Feed us with what we want to hear
Oil companies don't want competition
Going green is not to them an option
In Ireland a government was defeated
For trying to privatise their water
People there fighting the big boys
Setting an example all over Europe
Evil spews
like a waterfall of hate
money and greed
is what starts it
People looking for things
that are not even there
they think the grass is greener
over there
Then it's too late
when they realise
it is bare
More and more
is today's motto
more of money..
more of power..
more of status
more from a relationship..
more love..
more contacts..
more... more... more...
no end to this greed!
Termite in Humanity
eating us all
making us hollow.
need to control
to make life free!
~03/07/08~
Greed!
Creed of evil acts;
Reed of lies! !
No need to walk around;
Because, no one will heed to the truth.
Catch the sun
And lock into the cell
To offer it for sale…
Guy, you're still not happy.
Make a sound,
Declare: ‘It is mine,
So you can buy it here,
But do not dare to copy! '
Let your thought
Be signed as solely yours,
Certificated, patented
To fill your bank account.
You forgot,
If you have ever known,
Guy, what you really own
Is what you care about.
One can swear
The land belongs to him,
And he can build his firm,
He has all needed papers.
He's a liar.
He only takes and leaves
Polluted air and rivers,
Exhausted soil and people.
When your heart
Looks for another heart,
It tries to reach the stars,
It sings to someone dear.
Does it hurt,
If songs are spread for free?
Is that your only creed
To sell and never share?
Tell me if
It came across your mind:
Your greed would make you blind,
Your greed would make you poor.
You believe
That wealth is worth your soul.
Thus you will mute its song
For sure.
___________________
(17.04.20 17, Ukhta)
The predecessors of humans lived in forests
The hunter gatherers they fought with nature and wild
But seldom they destroyed the wild, flora and fauna
In such vast terms of events the world witnessing.
They killed the animals for food and skins
And also to protect themselves from their attacks
But we the civilized ones opted it for pleasure
For making money out of the ill gotten ways
By continuing the killing spree as poachers.
The bison, wild boars, elephants, and tigers
The king of wild the Lion, and the hippos
The rhenos, sambars, and beautiful other wildlife
Slowly and purposely destructing by fire arms
In fact the human being acts as the destiny makers
Of all the wild life which is to be objected.
This beautiful world and forests are entitled to all
For the humans as well as the wildlife we know
Save the world from perishes and protect the wildlife
As well as the forest which have immense wealth
Not only for today or tomorrow but upto the infinite time.
keep away from the greed and make us contented.
When I watch folks of this world and see how widespread
It is for those, that pile up treasure and put on fat, to chafe
At the bit and grasp for more, the way they hunger for a safe
As broad as the ocean, and so deep, that it'd never touch the seabed,
I say to myself: ah, you herd of blind fools, bank away, bank,
Ruining your days with anxieties, lose night after night of sleep,
Do shady deals and diddle: then what? Old Granpa Time'll creep
In with his scythe, and slice away at your bundle of plans, hank after hank.
Death's hidden away, and hunkers inside the clock-tower;
And no one can say: Tomorrow, once more I'll
Still hear midday ring out like today, at this very same hour.
What's the poor pilgrim do when he takes on a rough and tough
Journey, knowing he'll travel but for a little while?
He packs a crust or two of bread, and that's enough.
Greed is such a simple word
Yet rob so many of what they heard
The more you give the more it takes
And does not care even when it aches
Since no one checks what you make
It presents itself with such discreet
You may be mistaken and think it is neat
It demands very little at the start
Just wait until it settles in your heart
And dictates how subtly you can start
The more you get the more you want
And you find you can’t wait to start
You begin to cheat when others retreat
And learn to carry it out on the street
Not knowing you are aiming for defeat
When greed gets sweet you get in more deep
Makes you such a thief you can hardly sleep
You try to be wise with your smart compromise
Little do you know that your boss in disguise
Knows your scheme and planed otherwise
Business he knows seldom will grow
When greed sets in and gives it a blow
Wisdom demands to weather the storm
Confront and disarm before any alarm
Deal with the issue and avoid any harm
Shame on your name brings you pain
Greed can only give you earthly gain
Check out your motive before you defame
You have given talent kept it from stain
Ask for forgiveness and settle the claim
All rights reserved
The world's wrapped up in politics and loves big finance too
I find it quite depressing in large quantities, it's true
It's good to have the knowledge, and to know what's going on
But when it starts to rule the world, then everything goes wrong
There's so much hate out in this world, It's such a crying shame
People pointing fingers and so quick to place the blame
Intolerant of others, and unwilling to diffuse
With sociopaths in charge, war is always in the news
I wish that we could coexist, respect our fellow man
Quit hating other ways of life that we don't understand
But in politics and finance, war profiteering, grows and thrives
Yes, it's all about the money, not at all about the lives
I am not apathetic, I just can't stand it any more
I do not wish to witness so much suffering and war
If I focus on the travesty of all thats going down
I can not breathe, I suffocate, my spirit starts to drown
Where there is a need
There is always greed
A rotten exploiting deed
That manifests with speed
When there are mouths to feed
Read between the lines and take heed!
Lurking around is an Inspiring greed
Ready to take advantage and proceed
Even when there is no need to succeed
By now it is agreed, there is always greed
Our desire for more always exceeds our needs
Hence wealth, power and greed have always been married
We always want more
Sometimes I don't know what for
I read to understand what generation of breed
Has given birth to this senseless weed
Because life is a circle of endless greed
I urgently need to know, I plead
Who planted this seed of greed to deliberately mislead?
Greed does not fill
the emptiness felt inside
For greed only provokes
and creates anything
one does not need to survive
Greed
Greedy
Loss, loss, loss
First psychologically
Then worldly, spiritually.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |   09/04/2017
Let me dive into the
crystal water of the
river which flows by
the side of the blue
hill and deep woods.
I wish to play with the
fish swimming in the
shiny water under the
sun-gifted pure light.
I want to touch the
wings of the birds
flying high in the sky
without grief or sorrow.
I love to sip from
the cup of Nature
and lie with the
grasses beneath tree.
I have greed for the
best part of this world.
So, set me free from
the greed of human society.
Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed
Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed
Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed   Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed Greed  Greed Greed Greed
My ocean town struggles
to pick up leaves,
offer summer school,
and keep our library open.
Every day now
more men stand
at the railroad station,
waiting to be chosen for work.
Because it's thought
the Hispanics will work for less
they get picked first,
while the whites and blacks
avoid the terror
in one another's eyes.
Our handyman, Santos,
who expects only
what his hands earn,
is proud of   his half acre in Guatemala,
where he plans to retire.
His desire to proceed with dignity
is admirable, but he knows
that now no one retires,
everyone works harder.
My father imagined a life
more satisfying than the one
he managed to lead.
He didn't see himself as uneducated,
thwarted, or bitter,
but soon-to-be rich.
Being rich was his right, he believed.
Happiness, I used to think,
was a necessary illusion.
Now I think it's just
precious moments of relief,
like dreams of Guatemala.
Sometimes, at night,
in winter, surrounded by
the significant silence
of empty mansions,
which once were cottages,
where people lived their lives,
and now are owned by banks
and the absent rich,
I like to stand at my window,
looking for a tv's futile flickering,
always surprised to see
instead
the quaint, porous face
of my reflection,
immersed
in its one abundance.
Greed  is  fire
its flare is strong
as much as to burn
all commodities
from heaven to hell
it has no end
it is never saturated
nor it is ever quenched
it can kill spontaneously
any living kind
never does it mind
justice, sin and always blind
they are curse for this world
they never repent on their deed.
End of life was in tune
Melody that swings somewhere
Strange mind swish a hope
I need a shoulder to cry on
Long years of solitude
Awed ways that marched lonely
Plead for love in empty corners
Thrash that hooked in vagueness of life
Find love in a deserted corner
Hug it with the disastrous wings
As death admired as its part
Greed of love that sinks itself
Death is a mentor of life and love
Span that wait to seize its spark
Moves to its mouth with empty hands
Contracted love that lilt always
Plea for love is the greatest deed
String that lies in bottom of heart
Sometimes unknown or ignore
But hurts as its greed……
©2014 SALINI.S.NAIR. All rights reserved.
Love and Let Live,
Is all we should desire,
All the rest,
Is playing with fire!
I dream a scene
Where a baby falls asleep
Having sucked a pair of breasts
Resembling two pomegranates weighing ten kg.
I desire a blue sky
Which is not adulterated
By vulture-like coquettishly killing planes.
And, o my Love,
I bear the inborn greed
To stare at you in the open corridor of life
By sitting thousand years together.
As you grow up in this world,
the facts and stories that were untold slowly unfold.
You are forced to bear a lot of pain
and you just can't complain.
Your endurance is repeatedly put to a test
and you just can't protest.
You are left wounded at the end of each day
and nobody is bothered while you bleed.
When this human heart is devoid of love and filled with greed! ! !
I hang from the top shelf of a hard life
like a dusty and old lambrequin
Thus tattered by parasitic mites and torn
from the sheer weight of my grasp
I gaze at the many rich food stuffs and prized
white elephants that safely exist
Just beyond my tried and failed reach in my futile
attempt to possess their reward
Like the meaningless shiny things carried back
to the nest by a greedy crow
And placed there in the sunny window
of its relatively darkened existence
Purely but significantly as a trophy to be
seen and thereby envied for its plumage
Though it be of anything other than a strictly
ornamental garnishment or trinket
With not even the abilities of a b_stard wing
let alone provision or stipulation
I hang from the top shelf of a hard life….
Not wanting to quit or give
When I still have the strength to hang on
ten seconds longer than the next guy….
2008 © T Sheridan
haggard souls rushing
overspending—overspent
with Ego's burden
Greed eats the soul, wastes
Life, naked, penniless that’s
Heavens entrance fee
Hell has no pity
Naked soul-less with greed that’s the
Devil’s entrance fee
The love of self,
of our earthly wealth
a lie upon the earth
creating a distance from the Lord
veiled in flowery verse
We are not made
for the things that rust
that wither and turn to dust
a mighty fortress is our God
in Him alone should we trust
Nothing of our possessions
make nothing an idol, we pray
turning away from the world
to our brother instead
Follow the Christ,
away from the world
with his witness of God's true love
showing obedience, trust in the Lord
going to the cross,
as a humble servant
not the throne
a king in an earthly realm
Out things, this focus on our wealth
a prison, chains on our hearts
keeping us from walking with our God
on the dusty roads of this life
yoked to our brother, our savior
doing his work
for this we are called
leaving our lives, the things behind
going where we are led
Human power and greed
Saturday,28th September 2019
What makes them bloodthirsty?
when they try to spread the hegemony
over the poor country
and manage control over the economy
nothing works
when greed exceeds
national interest is compromised
nothing goes as promised
it is a mad arms race
and worst scene if faced
innocent lives are put at stake
no one is in position to apply the brake
the world may face another risk
upon receiving the kick
in the form of threats
and it shall turn into the war theatre
no one has to cry
only humanity has to be given a try
the precious lives are to be saved
and the world community has to sensibly behave
Hasmukh Mehta
Rarely will one find a place of wealth
where hypocrisy, greed and deceit
are not in residence.
© Joe Fazio
A gun in the hand, a bomb in a bag,
Hundred lives, hundred souls in death to drag;
Amidst a square, where families come to play,
At a train station, at a club, night or day;
No one is safe, ask those who survived the blast,
No one knows how much more the shooting will last,
Yet from all I see this I know to be true,
No God, nor yours nor mine, could ever order,
Such pain and such tears, such a gruesome slaughter,
Nor crave for others' blood, nor show such a hate,
I see human greed put religion for bait;
I see men and women dying for a cause,
That knows no borders, nor obeys to our laws.
Alas! This hatred must now find an end
Alas! Let no more lives to be lost and spent
Alas! Listen not to the words of those few
Who thought lives don't matter, lying is what they do;
Open your eyes and for once just stand and see,
Monsters are born as strong as they could be,
You know them well, you've seen them many times before,
They aren't called Religion, nor Race, nor War;
No soul, no mind, they cause innocents to bleed,
These monsters only have one name and that's Greed!
Knowledge teaches us
How much  is our need
Vices inundate
In the swirl of greed.
Increasing knowledge
Lessens the needs
Guides the  soul
Towards wisdom and  peace
Vices are like
Cancerous germs
Increases the greed
To destroy oneself.
Goal of life
Is to attain love and peace
With greed
We can never reach that place.
Greed is
Like a hunting trap
It allures, attracts
And ruins at last.
Increasing knowledge
Lessens the needs
Guides the a soul
Towards wisdom and  peace
=====================
Amitava (4.11.2014)    7-00 am
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY AMITAVA SUR
That feeds
Alone for some ideas
To request as “please’
“Pick the pen” mind activates
“If object found on read” and elates
Such is the common greed
Rampant in human mind indeed
We re taught
Rather caught
With wrong philosophy
And alter on feel pity
Mind one thing
It is related to something
Any ill gotten thing takes away
Double the value of item in any way
Accept the bribe of any kind
That shall make you restless and blind
You will be filled with arrogance
That money may not allow you peace at once
We have habituated it as normal
Not objected to any time on arrival
We shall accept as if it is blessings
But mind that it is enough for downing
It shakes whole foundation
It makes you corrupt and puts big question
You see gain in each effort
That prevails ship from reaching port
I win
You lose
I smile you cry
I and me
Have overtaken
We and you
Relations
Less important
Than  me
Winning
By hook or crook
Is now the goal
For me
Says the one
Living with greed
God fashioned man out of earth
In His image and breathed life into him
Woman He created for him to love
Dominion over creation, He gave him
Eden's Paradise, earthly heaven as his treasure
Man, yet succumbed to Evil One's temptation
Greed banished him from heavenly pleasure
To till the earth for food; to earth, his destination
Greed begets even more deprivation
Man's insatiable greed has no limitation
He has learnt not despite Eden's first lesson
In his heart, greed to be like gods, lives on
Man looks for strange gods to trust
He worships the god of material riches
Falls at the feet of goddess of lust
Bows before goddess of envious witches
His heart wears pride as the devil's crest
Prowls to steal, kill and destroy: No glitches!
Powers of darkness, his propriety
Offers food to the god of gluttony
Religion abused in the name of Almighty
Alibi for rapes, killings; massacres for tyranny
Rich get richer; the poor suffer in dire poverty
Eco-green sacrificed to fatten an economy
Rapid industrialization, at expense of man's health
No regard for our children's futurity
Insane to abuse and rape Mother Earth!
Recklessly tampering with his posterity
Suffer man with floods, drought and eco-pollution
Mother Nature, suffocates in global warming
Flash weather changes, flash floods displacing thousands
Displaced millions more in nations that are warring
Coveting a people with self-stamped ideological warrants
Marriage institution wearing, gay-marriages in
Cultural norms challenged and evolving
Social-religious values trampled, crumpling
Is this the apocalypse man's hastening?
Has man begun his own grave digging?
Would he relent to warning cries and sober?
Rebel till it's too late? Then cry, 'Oh, my God! '
Would he forcefully usher in a new world order?
Would he elect the Chaotic Leader of days of old?
Man is mere earthly man, not God
He cannot play God, not reincarnate God
(He'd reincarnate the devil in him, as his god!)
Mother Earth, he must respect
Mother Nature, he must protect
God's Law he must hearken
To God he must return
Not become, himself, a god!
22.9.2014
Miss Reid's Speed Seeds Misread Red Weed Barrow Greed Screed
So much depends upon callow Monsanto’s
arrow minded rein reign
glazed with gain and, again, phrased with pain,
wheedling sallow farmers who see red
forced to furrow b[l]ushels of transgenic sterile crop seeds
on narrow plain
lots which soon lie fallow
rather than wide marrow
raised with rain
and fertile appetizers
Need greed's speed weed reeds
beside white ants’
terror might nest?
Fazed again, who chickens out of errors?
12 October 2009 robi3_1928_will5_0006 PVW_JNX
Parody William Carlos Williams 1883_1963  The Red Wheelbarrow
The Red Wheelbarrow
so much depends
upon
a red
wheelbarrow
glazed with rain
water
beside the white
chickens
William Carlos WILLIAMS 1883_1963
WILLIAMS William Carlos 1883_1963 will5_0001_will5_0000 PXX_NXX The Red Wheelbarrow_So Much Depends
__________________
The Yellow Goldfish
so much depends
upon
a yellow gold
fish
washed down with bowl
water
inside the white
kitten
William Carlos Williams’s Cat
Henry BEARD 1945_20xx  bear1_0009_will5_0001 PXX_NXX
Parody William Carlos Williams 1883_1963  The Red Wheelbarrow
______________________
The T.V. Guide
So much more depends
upon
a universal remote
control
sitting on a coffee
table
beside the TV
Guide
Chris CLOKE 19xx_20xx clok1_0001_will5_0001 PVW_JXX
Parody William Carlos Williams 1883_1963  The Red Wheelbarrow
_____________________
An Apology
Forgive me
for backing over
and smashing
your red wheelbarrow.
It was raining
and the rear wiper
does not work on
my new plum-colored SUV.
I am also sorry
about the white
chickens.
Frances Jean BERGMANN 19xx_20xx berg1_0001_will5_0001 PWX_DJX
Parody William Carlos Williams 1883_1963  The Red Wheelbarrow
______________________
The Red Cadillac
Willie 'Slick' Williams reads William Carlos Williams, then writes a letter to the producers of the TV makeover show 'Pimp My Ride', explaining why his car should be featured on the program.'
so much depends
upon
a red cadillac
slick
with turtle
wax
beside the white
chicks
Reginald O'Hare GIBSON 19xx_20xx gibs2_0001_will5_0001 PXX_MXX
Parody William Carlos Williams 1883_1963  The Red Wheelbarrow
___________________
Grey Computer
so much depends
upon
the grey
computer
with its internet
resources
on the desk
beside my homework.
2008 Filippa ENNERFELT 19xx_20xx enne1_0001_will5_0001 PVW_MXX
__________________
Homeland Security Advisory System
nothing depends
upon
a red seal
blaring
phrases of high
terror
on the blue
website
September 2006  Jay SCOTT 1960_20xx  scot4_0001_will5_0001 PVX_JXX
Parody William Carlos Williams 1883_1963  The Red Wheelbarrow
A man of prosperity
He was having dexterity
Enough he earned in money
Little he gave to the needy
Or relative and friends
Those who were very poor
Even to his kith and kin.
He prospered in such speed
Together he was in greed
For money and gold gained
But still unhappy and bad mood
No one was devoted to him
Even his best half in dejection
Still he loved his money
All was well for years
Hypnotized on influence of money
Delectable events slowly lost
He became ill for ever
Even to drink water difficult
Swallow food was not easy
The day came, his death time
People says his eyes were not closed
May be looking for money
The safety notions in thoughts
Even the last moments of journey.
The greed of every human stands naked when it come to sacrifice.
People with petty greed ~ how much do they get
Not all people have big-sized greeds
We very ordinary
bunch of people with petty greed
Don't even have courage to feel big-sized greed
My petty greed has often been met
by petty donors
Twice or so I was saved
by the God on my shelf
After safe escape I gave a smirk
Indulged a bit in intellectual conceit  Ah
Escaped narrowly honour is saved
Yet my petty greed was not quenched
Even now I make rounds to petty donors
Ah they too are small-time people
They too live within limits
How can they give their all
Even if they give do I have the guts
to pull all up to the roots.
Can people with petty greed geta full amount
Very ordinary person I
pulled by petty greed
Ever go round and round
Come back home take bath daily
Light the lamp on my shelf
God keep saving me
Very ordinary person, me
haven't even got the courage
to feel big-sized greed.
___ ___________
amar chinchke lov
tr: rajlukshmee debee
No place for greed
Sunday,27th May 2018
let there remain harmony
and not treat people poorly
they are in need
so there is no place for the greed
your country was the jewel in the past
the great culture that remained till last
the greedy men are all over the world
only miseries are there for them to be told
Dear countrymen of the land
consider no one as a friend
when they are doing nonsense
and make the people tense
yes, they lived with luxury
and this added to the poverty
people remained starved
and many died
Let wars are not waged
and people tied and caged
this is cruel treatment
and shameful act at present
the whole of the world may witness
and face
the wrath of the people
who will come out and revolt
Hasmukh Amathalal Mehta
Greed of all kinds, specially for power n’ pelf
Drive men to play many a mischief
It enters our world like an invisible elf
Making one demean his esteemed self
Greed is like an uncontrolled steed
It might gallop in reckless speed
Any time it can kick you down to bleed
Sometimes even causing a stampede
Running after wealth is often a wild chase
The snobbish, wealth can easily entice
Often they have to pay a heavy price
For greed generates greed and many a vice
Money is seen by some as master and Lord
And they compete, everyday to hoard
Even if a lot of wealth is procured
Alas, one never feels fully secured
The root cause of many a malady is greed
We witness the ills, it does everyday breed
Minimize the wants and focus only on the need
Thus from monstrous greed, let us be freed
Of greed and corruption we are all too aware
It's happening in your suburb and the big World out there
Many in high places into corporate crime
And more honorable than them in jail serving time
On the scales of justice one must cast a doubt
Big time corporate crims seldom ever caught out
Money speaks every language some are known to say
In the twenty first century it does seem that way
Of greed and corruption the whispers abound
Amongst influential people criminals to be found
To buy their way out of trouble they seldom do fail
The power of their money can keep them from jail
And of greed and corruption we hear every day
Whoever did tell us that crime does not pay?
Of Human greed in these tough times we read of and we hear
Company C E O's not paid in thousands but in millions every year
Yet few of their type known for to help anyone in poverty
In a World where some have too much so much inequality
So many wealthy people from our Earth Mother take and take
From her precious resources their fortunes they do make
Her gold, silver and precious minerals, her uranium and coal
The more they have the more they want their greed out of control
For abusing the one we live off of the price may be huge to pay
Of droughts and famines caused by Climate Change we read and hear of every day
For the curse of Global Warming human greed in part to blame
Our abuse of our Earth Mother is only to our shame
The World is getting warmer from north to southern shore
And the greedy from our Earth Mother keep on stealing more and more.
Roll down hopes from highest of a crest,
Good enough better be than the best,
At the crest so highest
Tall trophies look modest,
And no more seem good in double haste.
____________________________________
Reflections | 44.02.2019 |
In the past we felt there was a need for greed
we felt that in order to make it and succeed
we had to win, we had to compete
winning was all, not minding the heat.
But there is a new vision of life:
It involves kindness without strife
we want to share our time and all things
and enjoy the sheer happiness it brings
There is no feeling good in abuse and greed
No joy in the feeling of an ever increasing need,
If we cannot change our old views of success
we 'll forever chase but never achieve happiness
Soon greed will survive only in a small minority
since more and more of us start seeing the superiority
of practicing kindness love and simply sharing
of living a life filled with compassion and caring
There are some old typists who still want to use
only old typewriters since computers, they refuse
There are still people clinging to greed and division
not willing to accept life's new kindness filled vision.
Obviously old typewriters are absolutely obsolete
Soon this will be true also for the stupidity of greed
We will all value that happiness and peace of mind
only originates from love, sharing and being kind.
Greed is certainly a disease                                          That is risky, absurd, and gloomy                                     Simply because it makes someone on                                    The wrong path all his life...                                       It kills one's inner feelings and                                     One's pretty emotions anytime...                                     There is only that distrust between                                   The greedy behavior of a sick person                                  Who looks only for his selfish benefit anytime and others...                    Greed itself is the biggest evil ever                                 Simply because it kills that pretty spirit                            Inside us anytime, anywhere, and everywhere.                         _________________________________________________ _____________________
Greed has for no time any verse
It has only curse and curse
Yet I have written a tercet for this hellish vice.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza | 7 November,2017
because politics by
nature is greedy
voters conclude
election must be based
on greediness
when election is based on
greediness
politicos and voters are
both happy
becoming more greedy
politicos buy
voter's suffrage rights
voters sell their rights
to cast wise votes
when both parties
the politicos and voters
are busy in buying and selling
the sacredness and sanctity of the votes
then Philippine politics is
ever evil and dirty
Some of us think they are too powerful
They can smash the mountain
They can divide the ocean
They can control the flight of the clouds in the sky
They can align night and day.
Some of us think they can manipulate
The hands of time
And people's minds
Taking all the great opportunities
Leaving nothing for others.
Their misdeeds will follow them
Cling onto their lives
The hands of time
Will run after them
And exact payment
More of what they claimed.
Copyright 2020, Rose Marie Juan-Austin,All Rights Reserved
Reed, greed!
Greed like a pride is the curse of mankind;
Purse, curse!
And to buttress our inalienable rights.
Stress, buttress!
But, i am dressed like a school boy waiting for my teacher;
However, realistic is my name.
Feed, heed!
And, you are dressed like a school girl on my love;
But, in truthfulness is the eloquence of your muse.
Note, wrote!
But, the pride of greediness is the curse of mankind.
To put in poetry
a report on greed in New Zealand,
this poet turns 'too many bees for the pollen'
into 'too many bees for the blossoms'...
...turns to 'too many bees for the blossoms'
from 'too many bees for the pollen',
does this poet, Scotney, Douglas Colin.
walking the greying streets,
between the broken down
and vacant buildings....
through the alleyways..
concrete graveyards...
the hint of smoke hangs
in the air.... the stain of soot,
the taste of death... lingers....
i closed my eyes and saw
the bodies... strewn in the street
like trash blown against a fence...
eyes wild, faces contorted, ...
death, and it's brothers and sisters...
storefronts dark and ominous,
gas pumps stand alone like angry
sores, oozing into the emptiness.
great black birds fly, casting shadows
that search for tiny particles of light....
stray dogs roam in packs,
hungry for flesh!
only the sound of the great
oil rigs pumping in the distance....
an old tattered flag blown
by a cold infidel wind!
The man whose riches satisfy his greed
Is not more rich for all those heaps and hoards
Than some poor man who has enough to feed
And clothe his corpse with such as God affords.
I have no use for men who steal and cheat;
The fruit of evil poisons those who eat.
Some wicked men are rich, some good men poor,
But I would rather trust in what's secure;
Our virtue sticks with us and makes us strong,
But money changes owners all day long.
Need is a desire; greed is a desire.
Desires denied, sufferings surface.
Need is met at ease but not the greed
Which is boundless with sufferings profound.
Need and greed aren’t in water tight cells.
Need might restrict to physical wants.
Greed is for ego’s gratification.
Possessiveness is the sign of the greed.
To earn by wrongful means is from greed.
To exploit and hoard is an act of greed.
To garner and flaunt all you have is greed.
Greedless, though penny-less, you’re loveable.
To sedate the pride is to tame the greed.
To kindle the pride is to fuel the greed.
Having got money, power and possession,
As the result of greed, you will lose peace.
Remove the greed; jealousy is gone.
Remove the greed; no feeling of revenge.
Hail the poor and condemn the greedy.
Then the tendency to grow rich will wane.
Live simple; live humble; then need is less.
Be proud to own a bicycle, not a car.
Value one who owns a bicycle, not a car.
You will have saved energy and the nature.
Don’t embrace comforts, which will weaken you.
Don’t enthuse with ego, which will make loss big.
Unlike the cheat, being poor is not a shame.
Less wants; less sufferings, more happiness.
I spread my greed as a tree  spreads  its root
Deep and wide into the ground, straight
To suck upon the sap with its  tip
And send it directly to the  leaf
More I go deep more I get
More sap I get more gets me greed
Behind all of my troubles cause  is the root
The result of my misdeeds   blooms
Into a flower and hangs from every shoot
I bear the suffering as the tree  bears  the fruit
GREED
Nature’s bowl so full
Yet with an avarice to hoard,
Marauding waves beat upon the shores!
MAYHEM
Economy draining, prices soaring
Crimes rising, Nature roaring
Life searing, Rulers snoring!
If you could know how much I make,
I'm sure to see you blush!
To reap the stipend that I do
Will mean, therefore, I look at you
From high above in my success
And say to you, 'Poor thing, God bless.'
The greedy bastard that I am -
I love to drown in bling;
Unlike you – so bloody poor, and
Picking coins up off the floor!
But sorry mate, I'm not to blame –
The fact your bank account is lame!
Come and see my flashy car
Awash inside with leather;
I saw the battered wreck you drive,
Spewing out its oily smog!
Your banger, friend, is such a dog,
Clanking out its dialogue.
I shall die in gleaming wealth,
Floating out in gentle stealth –
Having bought a glowing health.
As for you, my hard-up mate,
You'll fade away a slave to fate,
Surviving on the welfare state.
Copyright Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
Greed, greed, greed, greed
Greed, greed, feed the greed.
As long as his dreams are alive,
Sure, he has a fair chance to survive,
He is moving on a dangerous track,
Why she is shouting, "He is a crack."
Why her eyes are wet, is it love?
He knows, he doesn't fly like a dove,
He knows it's a rope not a bridge,
The teen aged girl is standing on a ridge.
But his eyes are on her pink gown
He, a lover, who never looks down
Journey of his eyes from feet to face
Kissing and embracing her silky grace
It's the midway and his eyes are at rest
To get back his breaths the spot is the best
Looking into his eyes why she is shy?
Prayers for her lover! Looking at the sky!
The same crazy in disciplined naughty boy!
Different metals, can they form an alloy?
May be; love is a magic, a force a might
Anytime can change the wrong in the right
He's close to the heart, a valley to adore
Listen to the beats climb more, climb more
Here he is, he can see her dancing hips
Hands round the neck, lips on the lips!
Writing and stamping a wordless deed
Welcome, welcome if love is the greed!
Greed is black in color.
It is selfish in every aspect.
It is normally one sided in nature.
It's glory is only for a moment.
It is like a deflating balloon.
It eventually catches up, watch.
Greed is dark.
It thinks only of itself.
It is very imbalanced.
It's happiness is fleeting.
It gets real small in size.
The seeds sown will soon reap a harvest.
When Greed Outstrips Needs (A Rondel of 13 lines)
When outstripped are our needs by Greed
Or love of Fame our still outweighs,
We rush along on mirky ways;
All moral laws we cease to heed.
Traffic signals failing to read,
At break-neck speed our aims we chase,
When outstripped are our needs by Greed
Or love of Fame our skill outweighs.
To harming others should this lead,
So what?  For Fame so strong our craze,
The banner 'buy or bribe' we raise!
We mind not making others bleed,
When outstripped are our needs by Greed.
Through windows' widely open frame
Two robins once to my house came
And surveyed everything they saw,
I watched them whilst with wide-eyed awe.
From one corner to the farther,
And from sitting room to the ‘ther,
Flying from ceiling fan to fan,
Wondering on greed of a man!
Why on earth they need such big nest?
She seemed to tell to her boy friend,
I don't think they expect new guest,
We as do our chicks this month end.
Wonder if we can our modest
Nest build inside their sprawling nest.
Stop building castles in thin air,
He said: tree's fine for us and fair.
______________________________________
Musings |30.03.2020|
Topic: greed, birds, nest
I established lead
But failed to read
What was actual need?
To cater friends and feed
I got simple answer
The key lies with fewer
It is sweet coated offer
With clear aim to differ
I am number one greedy person
I make relation for selfish reasons
Greed is rampant in mind
So I act very kind
Greed shall pay dividend
And bring happy end
But I am mistaken
The peace, in turn, shall be mistaken
I shall die as unhappy man
Considered not fit to be human
It shall or should remain endeavor
I shall die hungry but not with greed or dishonor
Food grains by ants ferried,
Honey by bees carried,
Wealth hoarded in by greed,
All get lost when in need,
Poor hoarders are harried.
_____________________________________ _____________
The transliteration of the subhāśhita is given below:
pipīlikā-arjitam dhānyammakśhikā-sanchitam madhu |
lubdhena sanchitam dravyamsamūlam cha vinashyati ||
pipīlikā-: by ants; arjitam: stored/fetched by; dhānyam: food grains; makśhikā-: by bees; sanchitam: collected, accumulated; madhu: honey; lubdhena: by a miser, by a greedy man;
dravyam: wealth; samūlam: literally, with the root, in total, altogether; cha: and; vinashyati: gets destroyed, is lost.
Topic: greed, wealth
Subliminal messages
in a world of greed
They start you young
To sow the seed
To get you to agree
to what the powers that be
want you to be
They'll even take your country
if they feel the need
will we ever be truly free
in a world of greed
One you bought
A beautiful one
I know the second one
You bought with much hardship
You could not get the third one
Even with hardship
But you strongly desired it
So you picked it up
Now you are under my supervision
Under my captivation
I kindle a fire
Of more and more
I am the fuel myself
And help it to burn
I live on it
And it is my staple food, too
Even if you wish
You would not be able to douse it
I would prevent you
Even to meet with peace
Then I would drive
Your happiness out
Who are you to talk like this?
I am no one but your monster greed.
High-rise feelings walk in the morning
Southern tempest smells reminiscence
Mind opens the memory-card mutely
Audio-visual art exhibition opens gallery.
Colors march on the parade ground
Sky knows every cool happening
How zero hikes to the region of infinity
Disposable coffee-cup cries at night.
Love runs million kilometers daily
On the highway some nameless zero
Blooms like star within unknown infinity
Unseen sea-green fire set heart on love.
Poem 16
Book 'Firefly Can't Make a Day' February 2008
Copyright Writer
Rhythm Publishers, Dhaka, Bangladesh
ISBN 984-8319-63-8
Dreaming of the man with beautiful green eyes,
I dream of me sleeping in his arms where I lie,
His breath on my skin his body clenched with mine,
The taste of his kiss is sweeter than wine,
I look up at the man with beautiful green eyes,
Forever in his arms is where I shall lie,
My body underneath wrapped around his,
As I think to myself ‘it can’t get any better than this’,
He whispers of love so tenderly in my ears,
That I look up at him and forget all my fears,
Knowing this moment wasn’t made on a whim,
I feel beautiful and safe when I’m with him,
I’m safe and warm in his arms where I lie,
When I’m with the man, with beautiful green eyes.
Ages ago,
he converted
to envy
An endlessly renewable fuel
for internal combustion
mId-solVed ANti-mass
green beaver’s apPArition
sadly GONe bOVid
Across the green fields
Up on the bluffs
High into the sky
A place I didn’t realize existed
Montana
Yes green
Once in a drought
It now is green from pounding rain.
God’s country again
It looks like a different place
No brown desert prairies
No desolate fields
It’s green now
A beautiful velvety green.
One Sunday morning I hurried on my way
And I arrived at my church ready to worship and pray
Then I saw a girl with blue-green hair
She walked away, not welcome there
I could see the tears falling down her face
I realized that I didn’t want to be in such a place
I looked at myself in my dress so neat
And then at the girl in her jeans and dusty bare feet
“Don’t be sad because you were turned away
We’ll find us a church where we both can stay”
With a smile on my face, I took her hand
And we both walked away from my church so grand
Soon a small wooden building I chanced to see
A young man smiled and greeted both her and me
The doors I saw were thrown open wide
“There’s a place for you both just right inside”
So many different people all worshipping the Lord
And the truth being preached straight from His Word
A place was found for us side by side
Welcomed by His love that we often hide
Let all church doors be thrown open wide
And all who approach be welcomed inside
Whether it be a woman with a refined air
Or a barefoot girl with blue-green hair
Not, exactly, green:
closer to bronze
preserved in kind brine,
something retrieved
from a Greco-Roman wreck,
patinated and oddly
muscular. We cannot
know what his fantastic
legs were like--
though evidence
suggests eight
complexly folded
scuttling works
of armament, crowned
by the foreclaws'
gesture of menace
and power. A gull's
gobbled the center,
leaving this chamber
--size of a demitasse--
open to reveal
a shocking, Giotto blue.
Though it smells
of seaweed and ruin,
this little traveling case
comes with such lavish lining!
Imagine breathing
surrounded by
the brilliant rinse
of summer's firmament.
What color is
the underside of skin?
Not so bad, to die,
if we could be opened
into this--
if the smallest chambers
of ourselves,
similarly,
revealed some sky.
Today I saw the first small signs
of Mother Natures Spring Designs.
Some tiny leaves of tender green
against the bare twigs to be seen.
The hedgerows will be clad anew.
Though it will take a week or two.
We will say goodbye to winters reign
and welcome back the spring again.
The sun grows stronger day by day
and blue replaces skies of grey.
My old bones will appreciate
the warmth although they’ll have to wait
A little longer for relief
I am quite sure it will be brief.
24-Feb-08
Yet the golden bell
when tune wakes up from the sorrow
as inspiring by the hope of tomorrow
the dream when jingles by the green
the graceful glow
when painted by the rays of rainbow
when unseen into the folds of the cloud
the morning as delightful by the mirror
searching upon the milieu
the gleeful flairs as glazed
when delved out from the crowd deep
as shimmering across the moon
when untouched even by the rain
the mute voices when besotted
by the cuckoo’s song
the breath slithers one after the other
the dream onto the hope unexhausted
by the quests and queries
for the musk to follow
still we move by the passion
pattens never seem to be of your own
All that's in green
And between
Now yellow ways
That I have seen
Leaves of brown
In the town
And streets of gray
In winter's gown
Full of dappled dreams
And gloomy beams
Of its dark mood
In nocturnal seams
Echoing in the city
All its glisten tidy
Of the rimes intrude
Glowing so witty
Hard in its shell
And whitish soft spell
Of little silvery star
Mirroring well
Now is time for gold
Light of twinkling hold
For the times are
Gifts from paper unfold
Before the first ray of sunlight
on a frosty winter morn.
The frost has hazed the windows
to a feature of lands
long before our life began.
To the time when dragons ruled the world
with their hot breath and thunderous roars.
However, the gods were not happy
with their chosen rulers
and banished them away.
The crown they then handed to man
in hope for a better job done.
Since then man has ruined
everything his eyes gazed on.
Therefore, like the dragons of long ago,
the gods may decide in time
to banish man as well.
Returning this planet
to the lush green garden
that it used to be.
Not "a youth with hoary head and haggard eye,"
But an old man with a smooth skin
And black hair!
I had the face of a boy as long as I lived,
And for years a soul that was stiff and bent,
In a world which saw me just as a jest,
To be hailed familiarly when it chose,
And loaded up as a man when it chose,
Being neither man nor boy.
In truth it was soul as well as body
Which never matured, and I say to you
That the much-sought prize of eternal youth
Is just arrested growth.
It was on Kerrydale Street that I did meet
A pretty young girl from Dublin Town,
This Irish colleen was dressed in green
She was in Glasgow to visit the Holy Ground.
I asked her, her name before the start of the game
As we both entered through Parkhead’s turnstiles,
Her name was Shannon, like the river in Ireland,
As I shook her hand and gave her a smile.
In the Jock Stein Stand, all the Celtic fans
Stood to applaud the Celts onto the park,
I looked for Shannon as she cheered on Neil Lennon,
As her Celtic shirt had Lennon 18 on the back.
When the game was done and the Celtic had won
I walked her up Janefield Street back into the city centre,
And we went for a jar at a local Celtic bar,
Mines was a Guinness as she drank a pint of cider.
We drank all night wearing our green & white
For the next morning she was returning home to Dublin,
She scribbled her home number on my cigarette packet
As she boarded a bus leaving Buchanan Street bus station.
For the rest of the season she would travel over from Dublin
Outside the Brazen Head pub we would meet,
And now, my bags are packed, with 200 fags,
As I am marrying Shannon, in Dublin next week.
Sept’12th 2005
As through the wild green hills of Wyre
The train ran, changing sky and shire,
And far behind, a fading crest,
Low in the forsaken west
Sank the high-reared head of Clee,
My hand lay empty on my knee.
Aching on my knee it lay:
That morning half a shire away
So many an honest fellow's fist
Had well-nigh wrung it from the wrist.
Hand, said I, since now we part
From fields and men we know by heart,
For strangers' faces, strangers' lands,--
Hand, you have held true fellows' hands.
Be clean then; rot before you do
A thing they'll not believe of you.
You and I must keep from shame
In London streets the Shropshire name;
On banks of Thames they must not say
Severn breeds worse men than they;
And friends abroad must bear in mind
Friends at home they leave behind.
Oh, I shall be stiff and cold
When I forget you, hearts of gold;
The land where I shall mind you not
Is the land where all's forgot.
And if my foot returns no more
To Teme nor Corve nor Severn shore,
Luck, my lads, be with you still
By falling stream and standing hill,
By chiming tower and whispering tree,
Men that made a man of me.
About your work in town and farm
Still you'll keep my head from harm,
Still you'll help me, hands that gave
A grasp to friend me to the grave.
Being Young and Green, I said in love's despite:
Never in the world will I to living wight
Give over, air my mind
To anyone,
Hang out its ancient secrets in the strong wind
To be shredded and faded—
Oh, me, invaded
And sacked by the wind and the sun!
Lying within the soft waxy grass,
My eyes gently close.
I think of us beneath the trees,
Beneath the dark green grove.
Right here, right now’s where I want to be.
With your arms around me tight,
And the feel of the summer breeze,
And the coming of the humid night.
Not thinking of dreary autumn,
Or when you finally go.
Not thinking of the cold winter,
Or the white frozen snow.
Only thinking of this time with you,
And the perfect ness of this day.
Only thinking of you and your memorizing beauty,
But not when you go away.
I open my eyes and you’re almost real,
In this daydream of mine.
Of course your not really here,
Which makes me go back to the time.
I lay with you in the soft waxy grass,
While my eyelids gently close.
I think of us beneath the trees,
Beneath the dark green grove.
A racist who was loud and mean
arrived with buddies on the scene.
They pointed fingers at the Black
and then prepared for an attack.
The black boy asked why they would pick
to beat and torture with a stick
a little boy who'd done no wrong
the racist said 'you look like Kong.
'It is the colour that we hate
that's why we now will beat you, mate.'
The fellow pleaded, 'don't be mean,
I think I am a shade of green.'
The racists, though, yelled, 'never mind,
we're white and also colourblind.'
What comes to my mind when I see a green wall?
A green wall reminds me of the grass so green
And the emerald most rarely seen
A green wall reminds me of the leaves so green
And a forest where I have never been
A green wall reminds me of trees with a lot of shade
And the fresh vegetables kept for trade.
What comes to my mind when I see a blue wall?
It reminds me of the sea so blue
I feel like jumping in it too
A blue wall reminds me of the blue sky
You can’t touch it cause it’s very high
A blue wall reminds me of the deep blue bear
It is very dangerous so beware
A blue wall reminds me of a blue whale
To reach it from the shore you have to sail.
NOT alone those camps of white, O soldiers,
When, as order'd forward, after a long march,
Footsore and weary, soon as the light lessen'd, we halted for the
night;
Some of us so fatigued, carrying the gun and knapsack, dropping
asleep in our tracks;
Others pitching the little tents, and the fires lit up began to
sparkle;
Outposts of pickets posted, surrounding, alert through the dark,
And a word provided for countersign, careful for safety;
Till to the call of the drummers at daybreak loudly beating the
drums,
We rose up refresh'd, the night and sleep pass'd over, and resumed
our journey,
Or proceeded to battle.                                            10
Lo! the camps of the tents of green,
Which the days of peace keep filling, and the days of war keep
filling,
With a mystic army, (is it too order'd forward? is it too only
halting awhile,
Till night and sleep pass over?)
Now in those camps of green--in their tents dotting the world;
In the parents, children, husbands, wives, in them--in the old and
young,
Sleeping under the sunlight, sleeping under the moonlight, content
and silent there at last,
Behold the mighty bivouac-field, and waiting-camp of all,
Of corps and generals all, and the President over the corps and
generals all,
And of each of us, O soldiers, and of each and all in the ranks we
fought,                                                      20
(There without hatred we shall all meet.)
For presently, O soldiers, we too camp in our place in the bivouac-
camps of green;
But we need not provide for outposts, nor word for the countersign,
Nor drummer to beat the morning drum.
Shrinking violet
orchid blooms again and grows
as love flows over.
HIS DREAM
I SWAYED upon the gaudy stem
The butt-end of a steering-oar,
And saw wherever I could turn
A crowd upon a shore.
And though I would have hushed the crowd,
There was no mother's son but said,
'What is the figure in a shroud
Upon a gaudy bed?'
And after running at the brim
Cried out upon that thing beneath
-- It had such dignity of limb --
By the sweet name of Death.
Though I'd my finger on my lip,
What could I but take up the song?
And running crowd and gaudy ship
Cried out the whole night long,
Crying amid the glittering sea,
Naming it with ecstatic breath,
Because it had such dignity,
By the sweet name of Death.
It’s matter of fact that earth is going green,
From major corporations to the fluorescent household light bulb,
To the way of life that is to be seen,
After death going green is already in progress for funeral parlors in the UK,
And that is a hit,
- it’s the rage,
Cardboard coffins, clothes sewn from natural fibers, a burial plot in a natural setting.
Green funerals attempt to be eco-friendly at every stage.
It makes a terrific do-it-yourself project,
To have one built from designer cardboard,
-sewn paper bags I would reject,
On ones pocket book that should be breather,
'The trouble is, they are a bit ungainly to use, ' said Oakfield Wood burial ground director Oliver Peacock. 'They're not terribly easy to handle and if it's wet, they don't look their best either.'
Better than being forced to give up one’s life,
To be made into some kind of multi-biochemical compound,
To make the survivors at ease with their strife,
Your last moments so serene,
To Go Soylent Green.
(4-20-08)
'Nothing gold can stay'
You said...'but why? '
'It's nature's way'
(My weak reply) .
Gold yields to green
For green lives long
Yet burns to gold
At Autumn's song
Does anyone eat green bananas?
then why have them in the stores?
By the time you think of eating one ripe!
they're full of fruit flies, in the hundreds or maybe more!
My husband loves green bananas
he says, cause they're solid and much more flavorful.
I think they taste kind of green and bitter
with every green and bitter mouthful!
I wonder if monkeys eat them green?
Or do they also wait until they're ripe?
Just peeling them when they're green
leaves those long stringy things of white!
I've taken to freezing mine now
in plastic bags, for my daily protien shakes!
Now I don't have to worry about the ones that turn black!
From the green ones that I wouldn't take!
I prefer red chile over my eggs
and potatoes for breakfast.
Red chile ristras decorate my door,
dry on my roof, and hang from eaves.
They lend open-air vegetable stands
historical grandeur, and gently swing
with an air of festive welcome.
I can hear them talking in the wind,
haggard, yellowing, crisp, rasping
tongues of old men, licking the breeze.
But grandmother loves green chile.
When I visit her,
she holds the green chile pepper
in her wrinkled hands.
Ah, voluptuous, masculine,
an air of authority and youth simmers
from its swan-neck stem, tapering to a flowery collar,
fermenting resinous spice.
A well-dressed gentleman at the door
my grandmother takes sensuously in her hand,
rubbing its firm glossed sides,
caressing the oily rubbery serpent,
with mouth -watering fulfillment,
fondling its curves with gentle fingers.
Its bearing magnificent and taut
as flanks of a tiger in mid-leap,
she thrusts her blade into
and cuts it open, with lust
on her hot mouth, sweating over the stove,
bandanna round her forehead,
mysterious passion on her face
as she serves me green chile con carne
between soft warm leaves of corn tortillas,
with beans and rice–her sacrifice
to here little prince.
I slurp form my plate
with last bit of tortilla, my mouth burns
and I hiss and drink a tall glass of cold water.
All over New Mexico, sunburned men and women
drive rickety trucks stuffed with gunny sacks
of green chile, from Belen, Beguita, Wllard, Estancia,
San Antonio y Socorro, from fields
to roadside stands, you see them roasting green chile
in screen-sided homemade barrels, and for a dollar a bag,
we relive this old, beautiful ritual again and again.
On green days or blue days
how easy it is to talk with you
to fill our ears with vocal sumptuousness
and our hearts with delicious laughter
sharing secrets only we can understand.
So easy to talk with you
no matter where the body is
the mind can be elsewhere
(we can pick up where we left off
or leave off where we can pick up) .
There is no beginning and no end.
Only, the comfortable...now.
I hate him,
As I hate Hell and all it’s devils.
I hate him for being better than me,
I hate him for being better than everyone I know,
And I hate him because he is with you.
Why you chose him,
I don’t know.
I have known you for years,
I have told you I love you for years,
I have done nothing but show you my love for years
But you choose him.
You are so beautiful,
And he is so ugly,
You are so elegant,
And he is so common,
You are so perfect,
And he is so flawed.
I will make you see,
That he isn’t good enough for you,
I will make you see,
That I am good for you,
I will make you see,
If I can’t have you,
No man can.
© Charlie F. Kane
25/2/06
Green-Eyed Suicide
With life such a blur
Wrists scarred from back to front
This is the life for her
This Green-Eyed Suicide
So beautiful as she breaks
Hurting so much more
With every smile she fakes
Shes feeling like shes lost
There is no other way out
Lately its only suicide
Thats all she thinks about
Covered up in bruises
From the parents who should love
The ones who should hold her
But never show a gentle touch
Alone as far as she can tell
She only has her best friend
Though she thinks no one loves her
And is determined this is the end
She doesn't know I love her
She doesn't know how much I care
Now she never will
For she is hanging there
I wish I could've saved her
Before her days were through
She was my best friend
And I gave the only love she knew
Now she lies so lifeless
So beautiful through my tear-stung eyes
She was everything to me
And now she is a Green-Eyed Suicide
By this part of the century few are left who believe
in the animals for they are not there in the carved parts
of them served on plates and the pleas from the slatted trucks
are sounds of shadows that possess no future
there is still game for the pleasure of killing
and there are pets for the children but the lives that followed
courses of their own other than ours and older
have been migrating before us some are already
far on the way and yet Peter with his gaunt cheeks
and point of white beard the face of an aged Lawrence
Peter who had lived on from another time and country
and who had seen so many things set out and vanish
still believed in heaven and said he had never once
doubted it since his childhood on the farm in the days
of the horses he had not doubted it in the worst
times of the Great War and afterward and he had come
to what he took to be a kind of earthly
model of it as he wandered south in his sixties
by that time speaking the language well enough
for them to make him out he took the smallest roads
into a world he thought was a thing of the past
with wildflowers he scarcely remembered and neighbors
working together scything the morning meadows
turning the hay before the noon meal bringing it in
by milking time husbandry and abundance
all the virtues he admired and their reward bounteous
in the eyes of a foreigner and there he remained
for the rest of his days seeing what he wanted to see
until the winter when he could no longer fork
the earth in his garden and then he gave away
his house land everything and committed himself
to a home to die in an old chateau where he lingered
for some time surrounded by those who had lost
the use of body or mind and as he lay there he told me
that the wall by his bed opened almost every day
and he saw what was really there and it was eternal life
as he recognized at once when he saw the gardens
he had made and the green fields where he had been
a child and his mother was standing there then the wall would close
and around him again were the last days of the world
Poet, having read your words; I wanted you to know
that I can see the trees you planted as I chop down
the hardest wood  for my fires. I used the vacated
bird nests you guarded like a fanatic steward for kindling;
the birds having all moved into their new government
subsidized gated condo communities down south. Poet,
having considered your elitist and liberal metaphors; I find them
to be plagiaristic and cliché at best…and similar to the precious trees
you attempt to protect, they are a but another renewable
source of fuel for the woodchucks and beavers like me
who are in need of expressing an occasional Damn!
Poet, green is no longer just the color of envy
but in has become the color of your gods…
And because I am forewarned, I am so forearmed with knowledge
to defeat your poor examples and attempts at self expression.
Poet, having gone into the wilderness; hugged the trees and bunnies
you have still failed to silence the wind and blasphemous dissuader
who dehorts all of your creations as politics.
And although I am just a reader, you should know
I am not a believer in search of a cause….
2008 © T Sheridan
Green grass
And blue sky
That is all I want
For now
The rest doesn't matter now
I want a holiday with a scene
Of green, green and green
A summer of green trees
A landscape of green grass
A view full of green vegetables
The colour green
Is a beauty that must be seen!
From a moving vehicles screen
And while we hold onto those machines
That deprives us of the colour green
Remember they provide us vaccines
As well as help the air to be clean
So for green, green and green
I will travel continents across and in-between
And also to any place that I have never been
I will make it routine
Just to see green, green and green
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
1     Green groweth the holly,
2     So doth the ivy.
3     Though winter blasts blow never so high,
4     Green groweth the holly.
5     As the holly groweth green
6     And never changeth hue,
7     So I am, ever hath been,
8     Unto my lady true.
9     As the holly groweth green
10   With ivy all alone
11   When flowers cannot be seen
12   And greenwood leaves be gone,
13   Now unto my lady
14   Promise to her I make,
15   From all other only
16   To her I me betake.
17   Adieu, mine own lady,
18   Adieu, my special
19   Who hath my heart truly
20   Be sure, and ever shall.
Green grow the rashes, O!
Green grow the rashes, O!
The sweetest hours that e'er I spend,
Are spent amang the lasses, O!
There's nought but care on every han'
In every hour that passes, O;
What signifies the life o' man,
An 'twere na for the lasses, O?
The warl'ly race may riches chase,
An' riches still may fly them, O;
An' though at last they catch them fast,
Their hearts can ne'er enjoy them, O.
But gi'e me a canny hour at e'en,
My arms about my dearie, O,
An' warl'ly cares an' warl'ly men
May a' gae tapsalteerie, O!
For you sae douce, ye sneer at this,
Ye're nought but senseless asses, O;
The wisest man the warl' e'er saw,
He dearly loved the lasses, O.
Auld Nature swears the lovely dears
Her noblest work she classes, O;
Her 'prentice han' she tried on man,
An' then she made the lasses, O.
These days I dream of America  and they offered me the green card.
I visited to my far relatives who were living there.
Some are in California and the rest in Massachusetts.
They showed me the hospitality but in doubts.
I feel that they might think I'll be a burden for them.
Never mind I said good bye
And searched for my scattered unseen friends.
I am totally tired and frustrated.
I heard the statue of Liberty is whispering something.
'Why don't you visit our ancestors? '
I left for Red indian Reservoirs
And they guided me to Geronimo's tomb and some Apaches.
We talked each other many things like old familiar friends
And when I woke up I found a red feather on my pillow.
Sing Song my beloved wife brought me the bed tea.
It’s not the experience
—that marauds it. Though the wise
will have you believe.
It’s this sense that everything
around you
is occurring for the first time.
Three tall poplars beside the pool
Shiver and moan in the gusty blast,
The carded clouds are blown like wool,
And the yellowing leaves fly thick and fast.
The leaves, now driven before the blast,
Now flung by fits on the curdling pool,
Are tossed heaven-high and dropped at last
As if at the whim of a jabbering fool.
O leaves, once rustling green and cool!
Two met here where one moans aghast
With wild heart heaving towards the past:
Three tall poplars beside the pool.
Now sitting outside,
The refreshing wind blows
Revealing the life of nature.
The grass may be yellow,
But underneath is a layer
Just waiting to grow.
The birds may be singing,
Dandelions may be glowing,
But will it last?
The birds may not be singing
The tunes that we hear,
It may be wails that they speak.
Begging for an answer,
In what they’ve done wrong.
Dandelions look like the sun,
But for them, they could be opening up
To whatever they have left.
Not wanting to be cut,
So when their second life approaches,
They will stay vibrate than grey
All because mankind got natures law wrong.
As I sit hear,
I listen to all that has been taught.
The trees are all dying,
The pond is overflowing,
From the dump we’ve been throwing
Between the beautiful silence
I feel the wind blow through my hair.
Then all you see is a plane from the city.
Polluting the air,
Just to get people somewhere.
Air is a limited thing,
No way can you buy it.
Replacing what once was,
Than keeping what’s there.
Experimenting a leaf, finding a bug
Scream, but only one thing,
The bug isn’t bigger than me.
Wanting so bad to kill it,
But killing that bug,
Is another phrase for extinction.
Life is a beautiful thing, but living in a
Dump is not.
Life may be short, some people may not
Care; saying no problem, we can get more
With the money we’ve been making.
Now, who in mankind, has the right mind,
To waste his money caring,
When he could be doubling it.
Remember one thing when life comes to an end,
What’s going to be left for the money of mankind?
The world currently may be black,
But let’s turn it green.
Freshly picked green mangoes
Peeled by meticulous hands
Cut and sliced carefully
Ice, milk, mangoes and water
With a cup of sugar
Put together in a blender
Mixed with tender care
And poured in a crystal glass
Served with a smile
Oh so invigorating and refreshing!
You ask me why I dwell in the green mountain;
I smile and make no reply for my heart is free of care.
As the peach-blossom flows down stream and is gone into the unknown,
I have a world apart that is not among men.
goodness reasons to revel by reality
heart yet knows right path to heaven
eyes raves back by illusion of mirage
light refluxes into room of delusion
do we ever know depth of eyes by mystery?
as sands gleaned on shore delving blue
myth of blindness yet they still read
moment swirls by winds unfolding dreams
moon seems to be here on top of hill
whispers allays sorrow by voices
where is the time lost to living,
life when reasoned to grip of wine
as desire mills through green of wild.
The baby-sitter's nuts! Please listen Mom, it's true!
Last night she washed my hair with Green Onion Shampoo!
Green Onion Shampoo! Green Onion Shampoo!
It smells worse than bad, and when you get through,
Your poor scalp will burn, your eyes will burn too!
Who ever heard of Green Onion Shampoo?
Why did she do that? She has a loose screw!
It's made in Cleveland! This stuff is brand new!
I don't understand! God, what did I do?
To ever deserve Green Onion Shampoo?
Promise to fire her! And trust when I say...
If you rehire her... I must run away!
Love is blue, when lovers are in trouble ever;
Great love stories of the world are so and are
Called as Divine love for the world to know and
Appreciate what love can do to make humans noble!
The greatness of human is measured not by power
Or wealth or intellect, but ever only by love..!
That is why love is placed in the highest pedal
Of human world forever and ever to cherish by all!
When this is so, how can romance be criticized as
Immoral by law or religion anywhere in the world?
Romance is the source for love to bloom between
Two attractive souls both for joy and grief ever!
Religion, literature and law give clean chit to
Mature guy and girl to live in union by marriage
Once they join ever by love that has bloomed as
Natural flowers sans force or by any other means!
i can't stand
to be away
from you
as much
as i have to
Green is the colour of the mangroves at my holiday batch
Green is the feeling of happiness
Green is the colour of the tall oak trees
Green is the sound of crickets buzzing in the summer season
Green is the taste of pickles sliding down your throat
Green is the feeling of success and satisfaction
Green is a pray-mantis hopping around in the garden
Green is the feeling you get on a great holiday
Green is a colour that is safe and alive.
Green are the valleys
green are the fields
green are the forests and long rolling hills
green like the shamrock and eyes with a smile
green as old Ireland
The emerald isle.
The dawn was apple-green,
The sky was green wine held up in the sun,
The moon was a golden petal between.
She opened her eyes, and green
They shone, clear like flowers undone,
For the first time, now for the first time seen.
The Ivy grows
It climbs the wall
As if reaching
For sunbeams
Of gentle Ole' Sol
Nuture O' nature
Garden Green
Chlorophil
Watered and
Fertilized
Exquisitly alive
Still
Hibiscus garden
Near the water
Fall
Dancing moisture
Dropps
Rainbow colour
Neath' Ole' Sol
Magnifience 'tis
Reigning O'er
Garden's Divine
Special touch
Divinity
God's very own
Design
Into the warm, inviting yellow
twists a brush loaded with blue.
Surprised, suspicious,
the shades swirl round each other,
and then, by magic,
marbled patterns turn
to startling viridian.
It is utterly final.
Once made, the new colour
cannot be undone;
once committed, the blue and yellow
cannot be divorced:
this is a lifelong union,
longer by far than the life
of the artist who mixed it.
So it is with you and me:
bearing our separate lives
we have swirled and marbled,
mixed and mingled,
become one,
created a new colour
with an as yet unknown chemistry.
Together, we make green;
and, though parted for a while,
yellow does not leave blue
and blue does not rip itself from yellow.
Instead, two emerald puddles,
distant in space but not tone,
dream of being plastered on a palette,
poured into a pot,
indissolubly one.
For now, our separate lives continue
and we wait,
rationed to fragments of time,
which moves on,
as love itself draws breath
and looks forward to our next meeting.
The Armies marched with banging drums
That made ill the streams, made black the dreams.
The Armies marched with cracking horns,
Each soldier robed in robes of green.
With green swords they cut her down,
Greyed her hairs and dimmed her smiles.
Their drums rung around her ears,
Their trophies hung within her tears.
But, in the night Turning Tide
Brought Light, who shone to crack the ice
That Time had made cold and hard
Around each green soldiers heathen heart.
Whispers. Whispers in my ears and in the hills.
'The ice will crack; the blood will flow',
The ice did crack, the blood ran cold
And drowned each green soldiers heathen soul.
We stood just to watch them die,
Let them bleed until their hearts bled dry.
Alas! things could never be the same
With her smiles so dim and her hairs so grey.
My favorite colors are green and brown.
Green-leafed trees polka-dot our town.
Green’s the color of farm pond scum,
and green’s the color of green tea gum.
Copper turns green when it’s weathered.
Some Amazon parrots are green-feathered.
Green is the color Army privates wear,
and green’s what the young clerk dyed his hair.
The city of Oz was oh so green!
Green is the color of a string bean.
If you’re nauseous you’re “green around the gills”,
and I’d be “green with envy” if you had no bills.
Green beer is drunk on St. Patrick’s Day.
Green is the color of newly mowed hay.
A wilted green salad looks so sad,
but a green stick fracture is “not so bad”.
Greenbacks are U.S. paper money.
From green clover bees make clover honey.
A green traffic light tells me to go,
and a green banana ain’t ripe you know.
A green-winged teal is a small duck,
and a green four-leafed clover may bring you luck.
I’ve heard of “green thumb” but not “green nose”.
I wonder if green is the color of gangrened toes.
what would earth be
without rain?
where would rain go
without earth?
Shake out my pockets! Harken to the call
Of that calm voice that makes no sound at all!
Take of me all you can; my average weight
May make amends for this, my low estate.
But do not shake, Green Thumb, as once you did
My heart and liver, or my prostate bid
Good Morning to -- leave it, the savage gland
Content within the mercy of my hand.
The world was safe in winter, I was spring,
Enslaved and rattling to the slightest thing
That she might give. If planter were my trade
Why was I then not like a planter made:
With veins like rivers, smudge-pots for a soul,
A simple mind geared to a simple goal?
You fashioned me, great headed and obscene
On two weak legs, the weakest thing between.
My blood was bubbling like a ten-day stew;
it kept on telling me the thing to do.
I asked, she acquiesced, and then we fell
To private Edens in the midst of hell.
For forty days temptation was our meal,
The night our guide, and what we could not feel
We could not trust. Later, beneath the bed,
We found you taking notes of all we said.
At last we parted, she to East Moline,
I to the service of the great unseen.
All the way home I watched a circling crow
And read your falling portents in the snow.
I burned my clothes, I moved, I changed my name,
But every night, unstamped her letter came:
"Ominous cramps and pains." I cursed the vows
That cattle make to grass when cattle browse.
Heartsick and tired, to you, Green Thumb, I prayed
For her reprieve and that our debt be paid
By my remorse. "Give me a sign," I said,
"Give me my burning bush." You squeaked the bed.
I hid my face like Moses on the hill,
But unlike Moses did not feel my will
Swell with new strength; I put my choice to sleep.
That night we cowered, choice and I, like sheep.
When I awoke I found beneath the door
Only the invoice from the liquor store.
The grape-vine brought the word. I switched to beer:
She had become a civil engineer.
When I went walking birds and children fled.
I took my love, myself, behind the shed;
The shed burned down. I switched to milk and eggs.
At night a dream ran up and down my legs.
I have endured, as Godless Nazarite,
Life like a bone even a dog would slight;
All that the dog would have, I have refused.
May I, of all your subjects, be excused?
The world is yours, Green Thumb; I smell your heat
Licking the winter to a green defeat.
The creatures join, the coupling seasons start;
Leave me, Green Thumb, my solitary part.
Green tornado fast asleep,
Just above your forest sweep,
High above the planes of gold,
Which drought and hunger will evolve.
Green tornado fast asleep,
Underneath the tigers creep,
Through the forest stalking prey,
While far away the dear do play.
For green tornado fast asleep,
You are mother natures keep,
With heart of gold and blood of fire,
The world is yours while men admire.
HOW MANY SHADES OF GREEN
How many shades of green
Olive green
Dark green
Light green
Yellow green
How many shades of yellow
Deep yellow
Rose yellow
Sun yellow
Morning light yellow
How many shades of light
How much light
How much Beauty in the world
How much Light-
How much- God.
In a herber green asleep whereas I lay,
The birds sang sweet in the middle of the day;
I dreamed fast of mirth and play:
In youth is pleasure, in youth is pleasure.
Methought I walked still to and fro,
And from her company I could not go;
But when I wak'd it was not so:
In youth is pleasure, in youth is pleasure.
Therefore my heart is surely pight
Of her alone to have a sight,
Which is my joy and heart's delight:
In youth is pleasure, in youth is pleasure.
IN the green and gallant Spring,
Love and the lyre I thought to sing,
And kisses sweet to give and take
By the flowery hawthorn brake.
Now is russet Autumn here,
Death and the grave and winter drear,
And I must ponder here aloof
While the rain is on the roof.
In the shade of the green wood
The holly does grow,
While in soft rays of sunlight
The wild roses glow,
And I smell their sweet perfume
That gently floats by,
Past trees strong and mighty
That reach to the sky,
The pathway of gold autumn
Leaves still remain,
As I walk through the green wood again.
In the shade of the green wood
This bright sunny morn,
That's so cool in the shadows
A new day is born,
All the birds in the treetops
Are singing for me,
Sweet songs of the summer
Which fill me with glee,
And know from its beauty
I never shall part,
For the green wood does live in my heart.
In the shade of the green wood
A soft gentle breeze,
Now caresses the branches
And whispers through trees,
A sound reassuring
Shall carry me to,
All the scenes that exist
In each marvellous view,
It's here that my spirit
Shall always now stay,
And the green wood is guiding my way.
Forty Word Poem.
My heart is yours
in all my dreams.
Eclipse of the moon
together we spoon.
Venus lends her glow.
She seems to know
our elation...for
tomorrow at sunrise
our hearts will fly
to the green Emerald
Island of Love.
That summer sun, whose genial glow
Now cheers my drooping spirit so
Must cold and distant be,
And only light our northern clime
With feeble ray, before the time
I long so much to see.
And this soft whispering breeze that now
So gently cools my fevered brow,
This too, alas, must turn --
To a wild blast whose icy dart
Pierces and chills me to the heart,
Before I cease to mourn.
And these bright flowers I love so well,
Verbena, rose and sweet bluebell,
Must droop and die away.
Those thick green leaves with all their shade
And rustling music, they must fade
And every one decay.
But if the sunny summer time
And woods and meadows in their prime
Are sweet to them that roam --
Far sweeter is the winter bare
With long dark nights and landscapes drear
To them that are at Home!
The lush green dew that rises.
The mist that covers the lawn.
Droplets of water declare.
Dancers that rise in the morn
swirling.  The patterns escape
dreamily into the air.
Oceans of clouds hanging, drape,
having not one single care.
Sun rising o’er the garden,
filling each dewdropp with light.
No heart could ever harden
to this beauty in our sight,
of lush green dew that rises.
Grass is always green on the other side
But one has to know the other side, to see, weather how green the grass really is?
If you’re trapped then you can feel life in a shell
And not see how good life can be.
All those things that looks green and good to eyes
Just turn our own precious hearts go green.
Be content,
At least try to be…
Enjoy every thing…even waiting in a queue…
Life will soon be sunny! ! !
IN somer when the shawes be sheyne,
And leves be large and long,
Hit is full merry in feyre foreste
To here the foulys song.
To se the dere draw to the dale
And leve the hilles hee,
And shadow him in the leves grene
Under the green-wode tree.
Hit befell on Whitsontide
Early in a May mornyng,
The Sonne up faire can shyne,
And the briddis mery can syng.
'This is a mery mornyng,' said Litulle Johne,
'Be Hym that dyed on tre;
A more mery man than I am one
Lyves not in Christiante.
'Pluk up thi hert, my dere mayster,'
Litulle Johne can say,
'And thynk hit is a fulle fayre tyme
In a mornynge of May.'
Love, meet me in the green glen,
Beside the tall elm-tree,
Where the sweetbriar smells so sweet agen;
There come with me.
Meet me in the green glen.
Meet me at the sunset
Down in the green glen,
Where we've often met
By hawthorn-tree and foxes' den,
Meet me in the green glen.
Meet me in the green glen,
By sweetbriar bushes there;
Meet me by your own sen,
Where the wild thyme blossoms fair.
Meet me in the green glen.
Meet me by the sweetbriar,
By the mole-hill swelling there;
When the west glows like a fire
God's crimson bed is there.
Meet me in the green glen.
Oh, there were fifteen men in green,
Each with a tommy-gun,
Who leapt into my plane at dawn;
We rose to meet the sun.
We set our course towards the east
And climbed into the day
Till the ribbed jungle underneath
Like a giant fossil lay.
We climbed towards the distant range,
Where two white paws of cloud
Clutched at the shoulders of the pass;
The green men laughed aloud.
They did not fear the ape-like cloud
That climbed the mountain crest
And hung from ropes invisible
With lightning in its breast.
They did not fear the summer's sun
In whose hot centre lie
A hundred hissing cannon shells
For the unwatchful eye.
And when on Dobadura's field
We landed, each man raised
His thumb towards the open sky;
But to their right I gazed.
For fifteen men in jungle green
Rose from the kunai grass
And came towards the plane. My men
In silence watched them pass;
It seemed they looked upon themselves
In Times's prophetic glass.
Oh, there were some leaned on a stick
And some on stretchers lay,
But few walked on their own two feet
In the early green of day.
(They did not heed the ape-like cloud
That climbed the mountain crest;
They did not fear the summer sun
With bullets for their breast.)
Their eyes were bright, their looks were dull;
Their skin had turned to clay.
Nature had meet them in the night
And stalked them in the day.
And I think still of men in green
On the Soputa track,
With fifteen spitting tommy-guns
To keep the jungle back.
Miss Lloyd has now sent to Miss Green,
As, on opening the box, may be seen,
Some years of a Black Ploughman's Gauze,
To be made up directly, because
Miss Lloyd must in mourning appear
For the death of a Relative dear--
Miss Lloyd must expect to receive
This license to mourn and to grieve,
Complete, ere the end of the week--
It is better to write than to speak
I see her there all day all night
With just her fingers writing her story in the air
So elegent she stands - A
Sparkling green
With noone to worry none to care
Yet she gives with all her might
Shelter shade & a pleasant sight
I hold her by her hip
Are you ever tired - I say
A gentle leaf falls on my shoulder
As if to say - I was there for you
I will be forever I feel your love
Its enough to go on....
I sit on my bed, and look across at my sage green towelling robe,
hanging on the back of the bedroom door.
Does he still 'fancy' me,
when I'm wearing it,
probably not,
it's not 'sexy', rather 'frumpy' really,
not at all an 'exciting' piece of clothing.
A dowdy bird,
dowdy and unheard!
I think that's me!
A 'new' me, must emerge from that robe.
A butterfly from a chrysalis,
A rose from a bud.
I think I need an overhaul, and a new 'robe',
like you see the 'famous' wearing,
in their 'penthouses'.
A glorious creation of satin and silk,
like flowing cream and milk.
Mind you, my towelling robe, hangs next to his towelling robe,
so perhaps we will do the same, and remain side by side,
and perhaps he loves me for other things than just being,
glamorous.
Hanging there, they look at peace with each other,
so I think I'll stick with my sage green towelling robe,
it cuddles me, just like he does!
©   Ernestine Northover
Now spring has clad the grove in green,
And strew'd the lea wi' flowers;
The furrow'd, waving corn is seen
Rejoice in fostering showers:
While ilka thing in nature join
Their sorrows to forego,
O why thus all alone are mine
The weary steps of woe?
The trout in yonder wimpling burn
That glides, a silver dart,
And safe beneath the shady thorn
Defies the angler's art --
My life was ance that careless stream,
That wanton trout was I;
But love, wi' unrelenting beam,
Has scorch'd my fountains dry.
The little flow'ret's peaceful lot,
In yonder cliff that grows,
Which, save the linnet's flight, I wot,
Nae ruder visit knows,
Was mine; till love has o'er me past,
And blighted a' my bloom,
And now beneath the with'ring blast
My youth and joy consume.
The waken'd lav'rock warbling springs,
And climbs the early sky,
Winnowing blythe her dewy wings
In morning's rosy eye:
As little reckt I sorrow's power,
Until the flowery snare
O' witching love, in luckless hour,
Made me the thrall o' care.
O had my fate been Greenland snows,
Or Afric's burning zone,
Wi' man and nature leagu'd my foes,
So Peggy ne'er I'd known!
The wretch whase doom is, "hope nae mair,"
What tongue his woes can tell!
Within whase bosom, save despair,
Nae kinder spirits dwell.
Oh tiger green and sweetly blue
With honest eyes and very true,
How can we again meet
And each kindly treat,
When wise men say there is none you.
Oh bloom that comes again in spring
With green leaves that whisper and sing,
Fragrance so adorable
With colors splendid full,
Candid life to the world you bring.
Oh creature that man has killed
On your earth the blood has spilled,
And broken natures nest
For he thought he knew best,
With folly the forest he filled.
Oh tiger green and sweetly blue
You are now but a dream so true,
Of endangered species gone
That embrace of lead has done,
And soon others will follow you.
Oh Eden's garden's of concrete now
Like hearts of men are somehow,
Made out of chisel stones
Or yellow weathered bones,
A death comes with a blackish crow.
In days that are passed and away
I heard you roaring and play,
With beasts now all lost
Or returned to whited dust,
Like I will likewise do one day.
Oh creatures of this earth so wild
Why hasn’t man treated you mild?
He's within a soul too
But not as innocent nor true,
As one, so of freedom defiled.
If  truth be  rhymed by the trust
on the edges of the green
you taught me the mathematics by abacus
I listen to your tunes by the innocence
Light when penetrates into the darkness
As  the world blooming in brilliance
And you lead me the way by your grace
As the green meadow flecks by the sun
Across the time of commitments
when owned by the intimacy
I simply followed you like a shadow
Even onto the last dregs of the night
Yet with all letters of resilience
I blink to the edges of the night abiding
yet frightened by the afflicted ember
faith seems to fledges when intoned
As your words whisper me of the rising sun
Even if grimaced by the winter chilled
Still light blazes the earth by the art of creation
When you stand by me by guiding agility
Here comes the saturation point
I am on the green mile
I cant take anymore, for my knees are weak
I agree, i have lost the battle
happy though for the fight i gave
Its the battle of life, too early to lose
here i sit, by the window side
like the sea, the depths of my pain
Looking down at the burial ground
waiting, on the green mile.
You look at me with sad green eyes,
I'm overcome with feeling-
Such deep emotion they disguise,
Yet send my senses reeling; They speak to me of loneliness
And feelings unexpressed,
Of hopes and dreams unrealized
And love gone uncaressed; They cry to me of urgency
To experience it all-
But here you are in limbo
With your back against the wall; I wish I had the answers
To the questions they impose-
I'm drowning in those sad green eyes
And the sorrow only grows; If I had one magic wish,
You know what it would be?
To see instead of sad green eyes
Green eyes that smile for me.
Set me whereas the sun doth parch the green
Or where his beams do not dissolve the ice,
In temperate heat where he is felt and seen;
In presence prest of people, mad or wise;
Set me in high or yet in low degree,
In longest night or in the shortest day,
In clearest sky or where clouds thickest be,
In lusty youth or when my hairs are gray.
Set me in heaven, in earth, or else in hell;
In hill, or dale, or in the foaming flood;
Thrall or at large, alive whereso I dwell,
Sick or in health, in evil fame or good:
Hers will I be, and only with this thought
Content myself although my chance be nought.
SMALL is the trust when love is green
In sap of early years;
A little thing steps in between
And kisses turn to tears.
Awhile - and see how love be grown
In loveliness and power!
Awhile, it loves the sweets alone,
But next it loves the sour.
A little love is none at all
That wanders or that fears;
A hearty love dwells still at call
To kisses or to tears.
Such then be mine, my love to give,
And such be yours to take:-
A faith to hold, a life to live,
For lovingkindness' sake:
Should you be sad, should you be gay,
Or should you prove unkind,
A love to hold the growing way
And keep the helping mind:-
A love to turn the laugh on care
When wrinkled care appears,
And, with an equal will, to share
Your losses and your tears.
So green the land that I can see
The hills and fields before my eyes,
Which blend with joyful harmony
Beneath the peaceful summer skies.
I breathe the morning air so sweet
So glad to be alive this day,
To see the new shoots of the wheat
And hedgerows now adorned with May.
Along the country lane I head
Not caring where it leads me to,
I know wherever I am led
I'll always find a pleasing view.
Beneath the bridge a river flows
Where ripples dance and brightly shine,
Like diamonds as the water glows
And winds unto this heart of mine.
The sweeping slopes of light and shade
Where clouds now cast their shade before,
With all the beauty there displayed
No man could ever ask for more.
So green the land that I can see
With gladdened soul I now do roam,
And as I go I say with glee
Fair England always be my home.
Ye, who in alleys green and leafy bow'rs,
Sport, the rude children of fantastic birth;
Where frolic nymphs, and shaggy tribes of mirth,
In clam'rous revels waste the midnight hours;
Who, link'd in flaunting bands of mountain flow'rs,
Weave your wild mazes o'er the dewy earth,
Ere the fierce Lord of Lustre rushes forth,
And o'er the world his beamy radiance pours!
Oft has your clanking cymbal's madd'ning strain,
Loud ringing through the torch-illumin'd grove,
Lur'd my lov'd Phaon from the youthful train,
Through rugged dells, o'er craggy rocks to rove;
Then how can she his vagrant heart detain,
Whose Lyre throbs only to the touch of Love!
Springtime’s first green is gold,
Her subtlest hue to hold,
Her morning song’s the flower;
But only so one hour.
Then colors by colors surrender,
So Eden lost her splendor.
So sunlight turns to moonlight,
Her gold will be gone by night.
Upon the swag of Stubbers Green
Where many ducks and wading birds
And all the geese and seagulls fly
To seek its comfort and the peace
And watch the day go by.
And while the graceful swans do pass
Upon the water flat and calm
Their downy cygnets all in tow
They seek the solace of the reeds
Which on the shoreline grow.
As light does shine and waters gleam
Now diamond ripples dancing free
I feel a whispered gentle breeze
That moves across the golden lake
And through the restless trees.
As on the grassy bank I stand
I gaze upon this tranquil scene
And lean against the tree to shade
My eyes from setting sun so bright
And watch the evening fade.
411
The Color of the Grave is Green—
The Outer Grave—I mean—
You would not know it from the Field—
Except it own a Stone—
To help the fond—to find it—
Too infinite asleep
To stop and tell them where it is—
But just a Daisy—deep—
The Color of the Grave is white—
The outer Grave—I mean—
You would not know it from the Drifts—
In Winter—till the Sun—
Has furrowed out the Aisles—
Then—higher than the Land
The little Dwelling Houses rise
Where each—has left a friend—
The Color of the Grave within—
The Duplicate—I mean—
Not all the Snows could make it white—
Not all the Summers—Green—
You've seen the Color—maybe—
Upon a Bonnet bound—
When that you met it with before—
The Ferret—cannot find—
The sun does arise,
And make happy the skies;
The merry bells ring
To welcome the spring;
The skylark and thrush,
The birds of the bush,
Sing louder around
To the bell's cheerful sound,
While our sports shall be seen
On the Echoing Green.
Old John with white hair,
Does laugh away care,
Sitting under the oak,
Among the old folk.
They laugh at our play,
And soon they all say:
'Such, such were the joys
When we all, girls and boys,
In our youth time were seen
On the Echoing Green.'
Till the little ones, weary,
No more can be merry;
The sun does descend,
And our sports have an end.
Round the laps of their mothers
Many sisters and brother,
Like birds in their nest,
Are ready for rest,
And sport no more seen
On the darkening Green.
.
The force that through the green fuse drives the flower
Drives my green age; that blasts the roots of trees
Is my destroyer.
And I am dumb to tell the crooked rose
My youth is bent by the same wintry fever.
The force that drives the water through the rocks
Drives my red blood; that dries the mouthing streams
Turns mine to wax.
And I am dumb to mouth unto my veins
How at the mountain spring the same mouth sucks.
The hand that whirls the water in the pool
Stirs the quicksand; that ropes the blowing wind
Hauls my shroud sail.
And I am dumb to tell the hanging man
How of my clay is made the hangman's lime.
The lips of time leech to the fountain head;
Love drips and gathers, but the fallen blood
Shall calm her sores.
And I am dumb to tell a weather's wind
How time has ticked a heaven round the stars.
And I am dumb to tell the lover's tomb
How at my sheet goes the same crooked worm.
Over the green and yellow rice-fields
sweep the shadows of the autumn
clouds followed by the swift-chasing
sun.
The bees forget to sip their honey;
drunken with light they foolishly hover
and hum.
The ducks in the islands of the river
clamour in joy for mere nothing.
Let none go back home, brothers,
this morning, let none go to work.
Let us take the blue sky by storm
and plunder space as we run.
Laughter floats in the air like foam
on the flood.
Brothers, let us squander our
morning in futile songs.
Grace unequalled in my earthly eyes,
dream when snuffles into ocean blue,
dust inflames, as  fire stashes in the hide
across the mystery of the jingle’s brim.
warmth cradles the glow of the green
voices when curves the shape of grin
heart revels by the words of whisper
night never refrained of gentle breath.
moments expense in gleams of light
scarlet rose shelters in room of repose
passion wades through reeks of lone void
the blue yet flecks into the plumes afloat....'
breeze flows trudging through the riffs
reeks may intone assailing the flow
yet the sultry dream serenades the cliff
as the wild stream brooks by the eternity.
This little bowl is like a mossy pool
In a Spring wood, where dogtooth violets grow
Nodding in chequered sunshine of the trees;
A quiet place, still, with the sound of birds,
Where, though unseen, is heard the endless song
And murmur of the never resting sea.
'T was winter, Roger, when you made this cup,
But coming Spring guided your eager hand
And round the edge you fashioned young green leaves,
A proper chalice made to hold the shy
And little flowers of the woods. And here
They will forget their sad uprooting, lost
In pleasure that this circle of bright leaves
Should be their setting; once more they will dream
They hear winds wandering through lofty trees
And see the sun smiling between the leaves.
There's a one-eyed yellow idol to the north of Khatmandu,
There's a little marble cross below the town;
There's a broken-hearted woman tends the grave of Mad Carew,
And the Yellow God forever gazes down.
He was known as "Mad Carew" by the subs at Khatmandu,
He was hotter than they felt inclined to tell;
But for all his foolish pranks, he was worshipped in the ranks,
And the Colonel's daughter smiled on him as well.
He had loved her all along, with a passion of the strong,
The fact that she loved him was plain to all.
She was nearly twenty-one and arrangements had begun
To celebrate her birthday with a ball.
He wrote to ask what present she would like from Mad Carew;
They met next day as he dismissed a squad;
And jestingly she told him then that nothing else would do
But the green eye of the little Yellow God.
On the night before the dance, Mad Carew seemed in a trance,
And they chaffed him as they puffed at their cigars:
But for once he failed to smile, and he sat alone awhile,
Then went out into the night beneath the stars.
He returned before the dawn, with his shirt and tunic torn,
And a gash across his temple dripping red;
He was patched up right away, and he slept through all the day,
And the Colonel's daughter watched beside his bed.
He woke at last and asked if they could send his tunic through;
She brought it, and he thanked her with a nod;
He bade her search the pocket saying "That's from Mad Carew,"
And she found the little green eye of the god.
She upbraided poor Carew in the way that women do,
Though both her eyes were strangely hot and wet;
But she wouldn't take the stone and Mad Carew was left alone
With the jewel that he'd chanced his life to get.
When the ball was at its height, on that still and tropic night,
She thought of him and hurried to his room;
As she crossed the barrack square she could hear the dreamy air
Of a waltz tune softly stealing thro' the gloom.
His door was open wide, with silver moonlight shining through;
The place was wet and slipp'ry where she trod;
An ugly knife lay buried in the heart of Mad Carew,
'Twas the "Vengeance of the Little Yellow God."
There's a one-eyed yellow idol to the north of Khatmandu,
There's a little marble cross below the town;
There's a broken-hearted woman tends the grave of Mad Carew,
And the Yellow God forever gazes down.
The city of Auckland its roads spreading wide,
twisting and winding like webs from a spider.
Maori descendents spread culture and pride,
while attempting to tolerate, me the outsider.
To the south of the city, a town Papakura,
Papa (flat) , kura (the precious red earth.)
Home to some wealthy but more often poorer,
inhabitants blessed by free will or by birth.
The suns golden rays caress green hills of Drury,
a small country town, once known for its coal.
Now warming each heart and soul just as surely
as sights of a newly born calf or a foal.
Between these two towns is my home my delight,
trees that alter in shape and texture each year.
Spring colours cause breath to catch at the sight,
Drury Hills bathed in sunlight, heaven so near.
So although not a native and born elsewhere,
forty years it has taken to bring me to being.
So privileged to spend each tomorrow and share,
inspiration  and pleasure in what I am seeing.
Endless blue skies boast of spring over farmland,
branches once naked stretch out to transform.
Rampant is growth seeming wild and unplanned,
tempting blossom and blooms to bask, to feel warm.
And I the outsider have roots bound securely,
in precious red earth that holds secrets of living.
And know as I look to the green hills of Drury.
that Spring  leads our world in the art of forgiving.
(Roan Oct.2007)
BENEATH these fruit-tree boughs that shed
Their snow-white blossoms on my head,
With brightest sunshine round me spread
Of spring's unclouded weather,
In this sequestered nook how sweet
To sit upon my orchard-seat!
And birds and flowers once more to greet,
My last year's friends together.
One have I marked, the happiest guest
In all this covert of the blest:
Hail to Thee, far above the rest
In joy of voice and pinion!
Thou, Linnet! in thy green array,
Presiding Spirit here today,
Dost lead the revels of the May;
And this is thy dominion.
While bird, and butterflies, and flowers,
Make all one band of paramours,
Thou, ranging up and down the bowers,
Art sole in thy employment:
A Life, a Presence like the Air,
Scattering thy gladness without care,
Too blest with any one to pair;
Thyself thy own enjoyment.
Amid yon tuft of hazel trees,
That twinkle to the gusty breeze,
Behold him perched in ecstasies,
Yet seeming still to hover;
There! where the flutter of his wings
Upon his back and body flings
Shadows and sunny glimmerings,
That cover him all over.
My dazzled sight he oft deceives,
A Brother of the dancing leaves;
Then flits, and from the cottage eaves
Pours forth his song in gushes;
As if by that exulting strain
He mocked and treated with disdain
The voiceless Form he chose to feign,
While fluttering in the bushes.
I know a green grass path that leaves the field,
And like a running river, winds along
Into a leafy wood where is no throng
Of birds at noon-day, and no soft throats yield
Their music to the moon. The place is sealed,
An unclaimed sovereignty of voiceless song,
And all the unravished silences belong
To some sweet singer lost or unrevealed.
So is my soul become a silent place.
Oh, may I wake from this uneasy night
To find a voice of music manifold.
Let it be shape of sorrow with wan face,
Or Love that swoons on sleep, or else delight
That is as wide-eyed as a marigold.
ALL singers have shadows
That follow like fears,
But I know a singer
Who never saw tears;
A gay love—a green love—
Delightsome—divine:
The Spring is that singer—
An old love of mine!
All players have shadows,
And into the play
Old sorrows will saunter—
Old sorrows will stay.
But here is a player
Whose speech is divine:
The Spring is that player—
An old love of mine!
All singers grow heavy:
Their hours as they run
Bite up all the blossoms,
Suck up all the sun;
But I know a singer
Delightsome—divine:
The gay love—the green love—
An old love of mine!
When I die,
Oh, bury me, please,
'Neath the budding
Of Springtime's Weeping Willow Tree,
Near the creek
Where the icy waters flow,
And place in my hand
A single red rose.
A single red rose, my love,
Just an single red rose,
To stand for my sweetheart,
My only true love...
My only true love,
My dearest one,
the one I loved
Through all my long life,
And all my passing days.
And for the child I bore,
Put there those violets I love,
The ones that grow
In the moss along the creek
Where the icy waters flow
Around the roots
Of the green willow tree.
THERE is a green hill far away,
Without a city wall,
Where the dear Lord was crucified,
Who died to save us all.
We may not know, we cannot tell
What pains he had to bear,
But we believe it was for us
He hung and suffer’d there.
He died that we might be forgiven,
He died to make us good,
That we might go at last to heaven,
Sav’d by his precious blood.
There was no other good enough
To pay the price of sin;
He only could unlock the gate
Of heaven, and let us in.
O dearly, dearly has he lov’d,
And we must love him too,
And trust in his redeeming blood,
And try his works to do.
there’s a bright patch of green
on the Table’s lap
but I cannot see the sun
from where I sit
only the sun’s protruding rays
between the mountain peak
and the shoulder peak
on my balcony patiently watching
for the flying Xhosa girl
who lives down the road
to pass by, look my way, smile,
and wave a hand…
maybe this time I might convince her
to slow down a bit, and tell me a name…
This year,
I'm raising the emotional ante,
putting my face
in the leaves to be stepped on,
seeing myself among them, that is;
that is, likening
leaf-vein to artery, leaf to flesh,
the passage of a leaf in autumn
to the passage of autumn,
branch-tip and winter spaces
to possibilities, and possibility
to God. Even on East 61st Street
in the blowzy city of New York,
someone has planted a gingko
because it has leaves like fans like hands,
hand-leaves, and sex. Those lovely
Chinese hands on the sidewalks
so far from delicacy
or even, perhaps, another gender of gingko--
do we see them?
No one ever treated us so gently
as these green-going-to-yellow hands
fanned out where we walk.
No one ever fell down so quietly
and lay where we would look
when we were tired or embarrassed,
or so bowed down by humanity
that we had to watch out lest our shoes stumble,
and looked down not to look up
until something looked like parts of people
where we were walking. We have no
experience to make us see the gingko
or any other tree,
and, in our admiration for whatever grows tall
and outlives us,
we look away, or look at the middles of things,
which would not be our way
if we truly thought we were gods.
On the cheerful village green,
Skirted round with houses small,
All the boys and girls are seen,
Playing there with hoop and ball.
Now they frolic hand in hand,
Making many a merry chain;
Then they form a warlike band,
Marching o'er the level plain.
Now ascends the worsted ball,
High it rises in the air,
Or against the cottage wall,
Up and down it bounces there.
Then the hoop, with even pace,
Runs before the merry throngs;
Joy is seen in every face,
Joy is heard in cheerful songs.
Rich array, and mansions proud,
Gilded toys, and costly fare,
Would not make the little crowd
Half so happy as they are.
Then, contented with my state,
Where true pleasure may be seen,
Let me envy not the great,
On a cheerful village green.
(To be sung to the Air of "An 'Orrible Tale.")
Oh list to this incredible tale
Of THOMSON GREEN and HARRIET HALE;
Its truth in one remark you'll sum -
"Twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twum!"
Oh, THOMSON GREEN was an auctioneer,
And made three hundred pounds a year;
And HARRIET HALE, most strange to say,
Gave pianoforte lessons at a sovereign a day.
Oh, THOMSON GREEN, I may remark,
Met HARRIET HALE in Regent's Park,
Where he, in a casual kind of way,
Spoke of the extraordinary beauty of the day.
They met again, and strange, though true,
He courted her for a month or two,
Then to her pa he said, says he,
"Old man, I love your daughter and your daughter worships me!"
Their names were regularly banned,
The wedding day was settled, and
I've ascertained by dint of search
They were married on the quiet at St. Mary Abbot's Church.
Oh, list to this incredible tale
Of THOMSON GREEN and HARRIET HALE,
Its truth in one remark you'll sum -
"Twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twum!"
That very self-same afternoon
They started on their honeymoon,
And (oh, astonishment!) took flight
To a pretty little cottage close to Shanklin, Isle of Wight.
But now - you'll doubt my word, I know -
In a month they both returned, and lo!
Astounding fact! this happy pair
Took a gentlemanly residence in Canonbury Square!
They led a weird and reckless life,
They dined each day, this man and wife
(Pray disbelieve it, if you please),
On a joint of meat, a pudding, and a little bit of cheese.
In time came those maternal joys
Which take the form of girls or boys,
And strange to say of each they'd one -
A tiddy-iddy daughter, and a tiddy-iddy son!
Oh, list to this incredible tale
Of THOMSON GREEN and HARRIET HALE,
Its truth in one remark you'll sum -
"Twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twum!"
My name for truth is gone, I fear,
But, monstrous as it may appear,
They let their drawing-room one day
To an eligible person in the cotton-broking way.
Whenever THOMSON GREEN fell sick
His wife called in a doctor, quick,
From whom some words like these would come -
FIAT MIST. SUMENDUM HAUSTUS, in a COCHLEYAREUM.
For thirty years this curious pair
Hung out in Canonbury Square,
And somehow, wonderful to say,
They loved each other dearly in a quiet sort of way.
Well, THOMSON GREEN fell ill and died;
For just a year his widow cried,
And then her heart she gave away
To the eligible lodger in the cotton-broking way.
Oh, list to this incredible tale
Of THOMSON GREEN and HARRIET HALE,
Its truth in one remark you'll sum -
"Twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twaddle twum!"
Glancing off to the distance, horizons set for me
There is a point where vivid green meets the deep blue of Sea
Feet bare to touch the green, first one, then the other
To the Quite place, unencumbered by the clutter
Above the light warms, rays of golden sun
Anticipating silence, feet are free to run
Calming in the stillness, free of all thought
Relaxed and just listening, knowledge sought
Being part of Nature, absorbed into air
Weightless and fluid, Peace is declared
Where green meets the blue, iridescent in gold
Listening in quite, for Mystery to unfold
Who goes amid the green wood
With springtide all adorning her?
Who goes amid the merry green wood
To make it merrier?
Who passes in the sunlight
By ways that know the light footfall?
Who passes in the sweet sunlight
With mien so virginal?
The ways of all the woodland
Gleam with a soft and golden fire -- -
For whom does all the sunny woodland
Carry so brave attire?
O, it is for my true love
The woods their rich apparel wear -- -
O, it is for my own true love,
That is so young and fair.
High over the white clean clouds
she serves hot coffee in the sky
Smiling pretty stewardess
with one green, one blue eye
(alluding to her dual life -
celestial blue and green of grass)
He saw her left side first,
an all embracing smile,
a green, then a blue eye...
Ah, secret charm of dual life!
Unearthly pleasure of the flight.
Not far away from Earth,
a casual face hints at the
closeness of an unknown space.
Sofia, the 05.07.2008
My mom would scream and run away
My plants would wither and die
My sister would think she is having a nightmare
My cousin would wish she knew how to fly
My dad would faint on the spot
My teacher would send me out of the class
My principal would expel me for sure
I won’t be allowed to write my exams
My music teacher would show me the door
I am in a complete fix
I wish there was another way
I should have listened to my mother
And combed my hair today.
A letter from abroad. I tear
Its sheathing open, unaware
What treasure gleams within; and there-
Like bird from cage-
Flutters a curl of golden hair
Out of the page.
From such a frolic head 'twas shorn!
('Tis but five years since he was born.)
Not sunlight scampering over corn
Were merrier thing.
A child? A fragment of the morn,
A piece of Spring!
Surely an ampler, fuller day
Than drapes our English skies with grey-
A deeper light, a richer ray
Than here we know-
To this bright tress have given away
Their living glow.
For Willie dwells where gentian flowers
Make mimic sky in mountain bowers;
And vineyards steeped in ardent hours
Slope to the wave
Where storied Chillon's tragic towers
Their bases lave;
And over piny tracts of Vaud
The rose of eve steals up the snow;
And on the waters far below
Strange sails like wings
Half-bodilessly come and go,
Fantastic things;
And tender night falls like a sigh
On
châlet
low and
château
high;
And the far cataract's voice comes nigh,
Where no man hears;
And spectral peaks impale the sky
On silver spears.
Ah, Willie, whose dissevered tress
Lies in my hand!-may you possess
At least one sovereign happiness,
Ev'n to your grave;
One boon than which I ask naught less,
Naught greater crave:
May cloud and mountain, lake and vale,
Never to you be trite or stale
As unto souls whose wellsprings fail
Or flow defiled,
Till Nature's happiest fairy-tale
Charms not her child!
For when the spirit waxes numb,
Alien and strange these shows become,
And stricken with life's tedium
The streams run dry,
The choric spheres themselves are dumb,
And dead the sky,-
Dead as to captives grown supine,
Chained to their task in sightless mine:
Above, the bland day smiles benign,
Birds carol free,
In thunderous throes of life divine
Leaps the glad sea;
But they-their day and night are one.
What is't to them, that rivulets run,
Or what concern of theirs the sun?
It seems as though
Their business with these things was done
Ages ago:
Only, at times, each dulled heart feels
That somewhere, sealed with hopeless seals,
The unmeaning heaven about him reels,
And he lies hurled
Beyond the roar of all the wheels
Of all the world.
*
On what strange track one's fancies fare!
To eyeless night in sunless lair
'Tis a far cry from Willie's hair;
And here it lies-
Human, yet something which can ne'er
Grow sad and wise:
Which, when the head where late it lay
In life's grey dusk itself is grey,
And when the curfew of life's day
By death is tolled,
Shall forfeit not the auroral ray
And eastern gold.
One Sunday morning I hurried on my way
And I arrived at my church ready to worship and pray
Then I saw a girl with blue-green hair
She walked away, not welcome there
I could see the tears falling down her face
I realized that I didn’t want to be in such a place
I looked at myself in my dress so neat
And then at the girl in her jeans and dusty bare feet
“Don’t be sad because you were turned away
We’ll find us a church where we both can stay”
With a smile on my face, I took her hand
And we both walked away from my church so grand
Soon a small wooden building I chanced to see
A young man smiled and greeted both her and me
The doors I saw were thrown open wide
“There’s a place for you both just right inside”
So many different people all worshipping the Lord
And the truth being preached straight from His Word
A place was found for us side by side
Welcomed by His love that we often hide
Let all church doors be thrown open wide
And all who approach be welcomed inside
Whether it be a woman with a refined air
Or a barefoot girl with blue-green hair
Angel is a white Shih Tzu with patterns of white and gold,
Angel also comes to the names of Ang, and Angie I am told.
Mrs. Gaylin is her proud owner along with her spouse,
Angel is really cute and quiet as a mouse.
Mrs. Gaylin said Angels needs a haircut soon,
Mrs. Gaylin will take her for a haircut maybe at noon.
Now Angel is a is a rescue dog Mrs. Gaylin also did say,
they adopted her on one sunny day.
Going for walks Angel does go,
she is one of the Shih Tzu's at the condo.
Written By Suzae Chevalier on December 27,2011
www.suechevalier.com www.suzae.com
Angels fall and babies cry
Walking around mindlessly insane and I don't know why
My vision of ecstasy is only you
That happiness that I've never had leaves me hopeless to
One week has passed and I feel pathetic, frustrated and somewhat insane
You made me think I could be beautiful what a horrible lie something so vein
My veins have been cut and my bruises made
But at your feet I fall and down goes my cascade
I promise to you that I will get better
But believe me when I say it's only getting harder
The thorn in my tights and my suicidal dream
Life is never what it seems
I love you there is no use in lying
It hurts so much I suffocate in the tears I told you I'm not crying
I mourn the death if my Anorexic  - Love but more for the death if my dearest friend depression
I hate you and don't want you, how dare you replace it and become my obsession
It comes to this, I no longer want you anymore
I need you and there is nothing I can do at all
You are the purest and dirtiest drug and I need to feed it
I tell myself I'm not an addict it's just a habit
But my tongues saliva is again full of these little black lies
But what can I say, darkness my most faithful disguise
From Satins heart to gods light
I miss you and I love you so I bid you a dearest night
Once you were the Queen of the fairways
Striding along ahead of the pack
Club in hand, eye on the ball
As you with deft stroke played the game.
Time wears away the luster
Of past dreams and lays bare
The fact that Aging is not for Sissies
But for those who persevere.
As the shadows grew long
The shine of your sun-bleached tresses
Dimmed as they grew thin
But memory carried you through.
The hopes and joys of youth
May have faded
But you, although bent by time
Continued to follow a dream.
How much you contributed
To those who follow in your footsteps
Remains to be seen
As they have not the vision of the future
That your generation shared.
Disillusions did not dissuade you
False prophets did not mislead you
Scarcity did cause you to want
Mockery did not bow your head.
Oh, Grey Hair, how we miss you
How we think often of you
How we remember your firm hand
Your gentle encouragement.
An orphan saw a flower with golden hair
The sun shined her and lighted her in fully fair
Eyes refused to blink
Heart started to bet fast
Body was shaking
Blood denied to circle
Greenish became the Favorite chosen season
This will stay inside of orphan because he has reason
Blocked also controlled the anger for long journey
Tasted the hand made in added different recipe
Replaced blindly with inappropriate chosen
Sadly accepted realized his life has frozen
A pin has a head, but has no hair;
A clock has a face, but no mouth there;
Needles have eyes, but they cannot see;
A fly has a trunk without lock or key;
A timepiece may lose, but cannot win;
A corn-field dimples without a chin;
A hill has no leg, but has a foot;
A wine-glass a stem, but not a root;
A watch has hands, but no thumb or finger;
A boot has a tongue, but is no singer;
Rivers run, though they have no feet;
A saw has teeth, but it does not eat;
Ash-trees have keys, yet never a lock;
And baby crows, without being a cock.
Delia, the unkindest girl on earth,
When I besought the fair,
That favour of intrinsic worth
A ringlet of her hair,
Refused that instant to comply
With my absurd request,
For reasons she could specify,
Some twenty score at least.
Trust me, my dear, however odd
It may appear to say,
I sought it merely to defraud
Thy spoiler of his prey.
Yes! when its sister locks shall fade,
As quickly fade they must,
When all their beauties are decayed,
Their gloss, their colour, lost—
Ah then! if haply to my share
Some slender pittance fall,
If I but gain one single hair,
Nor age usurp them all;—
When you behold it still as sleek,
As lovely to the view,
As when it left thy snowy neck,
That Eden where it grew,
Then shall my Delia's self declare
That I professed the truth,
And have preserved my little share
In everlasting youth.
When artists wore a flowing mane,
Then, in a sentimental vein,
With pastorals they lured the eye,
Or sad, sweet scenes of sea and sky.
But now that hair sprouts from the face
They chuck their paint about the place
And, in the modern manner, seek
To baffle one with the unique.
I've often wondered if this surge
Of hirsute foam denotes some urge
Artistic that controls and sways
The hand and brain to newer ways.
For instance, might we not expect
An artist in dundrearies decked
In other manner to behave
From him who wore a monkey shave?
I've known but one of this quaint throng
Who wore both hair and whiskers long,
But he, poor bloke, was short of cash,
And wore a full beard and moustache
That he might draw on this supply
When price of brushes soared to high ...
But there are ways, it seems to me.
To test my novel theory.
If some brave man would range the land
And catch a few of this quaint band
And hold them captive for a while
Who knows what tricks of school and style
One might evolve if, to each man,
We gave a different hirsute plan?
You doubt, perhaps?  But all the same,
There might be money in the game.
she looks like
she just came
off a three day binge
or
some nice cruise
never bothering
to wash the
ocean away.
that dazed
but satisfied look
pleased with all
that crosses her path
she does not take part
in my sorts of abuse.
she will share the space
with devils and spirits,
but kindly refuse.
a simple girl with
outrageous beauty.
what is it that she knows?
where is that spot
deep inside?
that spot where she
stashes strength?
does it even matter
with lips like that?
Hills and mountains are dotted
across our landscape fair,
at the top of either
you are at the roof of the world
looking down upon
all who live below.
You stand and gaze at the world
an all the riches it bestows.
Seeing everyone’s destiny
in a strand of hair.
Loves maybe invisible to the naked eye,
but you have to be blind
not to see it in someone else’s eyes.
Strangers pass on a street
neither ever seen the other before.
There is an attraction
that makes them stop and look around;
soon they are together
melting into one another’s arms.
Love is just a chance meeting
between strangers somewhere.
No one can prepare for it.
How can you prepare for something
you never know when it will happen?
The only thing you can do
is carry on doing what you have to do
and let cupid’s arrow fly
when and if it must.
You maybe smitten
if his aim is true,
in the meantime don’t lie
awake at night wishing for
what tomorrow might never bring.
Just go out and live a life
as normal as can be.
For love and cupid will seize
a chance when you are unaware.
28 January 2007
An old car
Moves slowly
Through cold rain;
A modern city
Grows ancient
In the sad fog
Of urban despair.
A woman’s dirty hair
Is pulled
By an oily hand
In a rat-infested
Motel room.
God ignores suffering
But also kindly turns his head
To the indiscriminate sex
That helps the hopeless
Alleviate poverty-born
Unrelenting stress.
Bad hair day! Can you relate to this?
Is it P.M.S., hormones flaring or is it me –
If tempers are blazing, it’s best to stay away
Just give space to the person, who is upset,
Or things might be said that you will later regret
Wait for an explanation when things cool down
Maybe make up with a hug and a kiss
If you are a lady, “Can you relate to this? ”
Everyday is always a bad hair day for me
Mine is very curly, they told me it's kinky
I have a hard time combing my hair, you see
Have to visit my hairdresser to fix it for me
It was very shiny, as straight as can be
It was always like these since I was a little lady
Now, I am used to see this everyday
Ummm, I don't see what happened to me
Getting up early in the morning is not that easy
I have to have a ribbon to hold it, the neighbors might see
Never mind If they laugh at me and call me crazy
I have a God who loves me and take care of me.
Hey! I am elated this way, God created me like that,
And no bad hair day will ever make me give it back,
Yes! Truly blessed to have hair as pleasing as can be,
Think what you want, I absolutely adore it. He he he!
Hmmm..not a bad hair day at all...I love it..! ! ! He he he
Ithaca, October 1993: Jorie went on a lingerie
tear, wanting to look like a moll
in a Chandler novel. Dinner, consisting of three parts gin
and one part lime juice cordial, was a prelude to her hair.
There are, she said, poems that can be written
only when the poet is clad in black underwear.
But that's Jorie for you. Always cracking wise, always where
the action is, the lights, and the sexy lingerie.
Poems, she said, were meant to be written
on the run, like ladders on the stockings of a gun moll
at a bar. Jorie had to introduce the other poet with the fabulous hair
that night. She'd have preferred to work out at the gym.
She'd have preferred to work out with Jim.
She'd have preferred to be anywhere
but here, where young men gawked at her hair
and old men swooned at the thought of her lingerie.
"If you've seen one, you've seen the moll,"
Jorie said when asked about C. "Everything she's written
is an imitation of E." Some poems can be written
only when the poet has fortified herself with gin.
Others come easily to one as feckless as Moll
Flanders. Jorie beamed. "It happened here,"
she said. She had worn her best lingerie,
and D. made the expected pass at her. "My hair
was big that night, not that I make a fetish of hair,
but some poems must not be written
by bald sopranos." That night she lectured on lingerie
to an enthusiastic audience of female gymnasts and gin-
drinking males. "Utopia," she said, "is nowhere."
This prompted one critic to declare that, of them all,
all the poets with hair, Jorie was the fairest moll.
The New York Times voted her "best hair."
Iowa City was said to be the place where
all aspiring poets went, their poems written
on water, with blanks instead of words, a tonic
of silence in the heart of noise, and a vision of lingerie
in the bright morning -- the lingerie to be worn by a moll
holding a tumbler of gin, with her hair
wet from the shower and her best poems waiting to be written.
Blach hair
Tangled in a thousand strands.
Tangled my hair and
Tangled my tangled memories
Of our long nights of love making.
Days I yearn to kiss your luscious lips
Delicious lips tasting like a reddish apple
as I bite upon your watery tongue
Dark hair conceals your beautiful face
your beauty resembles that of Aphrodite
Praying you'll love this fool
Times trapped in my dusky hell
You're there to show me the light
Days your sweet words inspires me
Compassionate words bringing hope to
to this foolish sinner
Darken days, the Moon
shines on your caressive skin
my stiff hands stuck upon your
bosom while you remain silent
in the lace bed
So many songs have been written about my love.
The beautiful color of my true love's hair. The hair of a powerful beauty.
Black as a wormhole or as simple as a crayon.
Made of ions, electrons and protons, my love must have created all things
for her hair supports everything.
From the planets, moons, suns, constellations and universes. My true love has no prejudice or hatred for any one being instead love for all she creates.
Her face lights up planets and her waters house life while her skin supports all walking creatures and four legged enigmas.
Her eyes are stars gazers while her smiles are super novas
and her beautiful black hair is simply the dark matter in space.
I must have died a thousand times
because everytime I see you smile I go breathless
So I fell for you, big deal...I'll be the one laughing
when you fall for me and I leave your heart
drowning in a pool of tears and memories.
I hope it's me that makes your body tremble at night
When will you realize what your doing to yourself?
you're doomed unless you pull yourself together
you fell for my trap now time only tells how long
I'll leave you in despair...Foolish mistakes will
lead you to make believe love and a tragic ending.
But I feel I'm lost in a dream world when I look into your eyes
Congratulations you made me suffer....
but it's your heart that will forfeit this game
SUNDAY shuts down on this twentieth-century evening.
The L passes. Twilight and bulb define
the brown room, the overstuffed plum sofa,
the boy, and the girl's thin hands above his head.
A neighbor radio sings stocks, news, serenade.
He sits at the table, head down, the young clear neck exposed,
watching the drugstore sign from the tail of his eye;
tattoo, neon, until the eye blears, while his
solicitous tall sister, simple in blue, bending
behind him, cuts his hair with her cheap shears.
The arrow's electric red always reaches its mark,
successful neon! He coughs, impressed by that precision.
His child's forehead, forever protected by his cap,
is bleached against the lamplight as he turns head
and steadies to let the snippets drop.
Erasing the failure of weeks with level fingers,
she sleeks the fine hair, combing: 'You'll look fine tomorrow!
You'll surely find something, they can't keep turning you down;
the finest gentleman's not so trim as you!' Smiling, he raises
the adolescent forehead wrinkling ironic now.
He sees his decent suit laid out, new-pressed,
his carfare on the shelf. He lets his head fall, meeting
her earnest hopeless look, seeing the sharp blades splitting,
the darkened room, the impersonal sign, her motion,
the blue vein, bright on her temple, pitifully beating.
Braid the raven hair,
Weave the supple tress,
Deck the maiden fair
In her loveliness;
Paint the pretty face,
Dye the coral lip,
Emphasise the grace
Of her ladyship!
Art and nature, thus allied,
Go to make a pretty bride!
Sit with downcast eye,
Let it brim with dew;
Try if you can cry,
We will do so, too.
When you're summoned, start
Like a frightened roe;
Flutter, little heart,
Colour, come and go!
Modesty at marriage tide
Well becomes a pretty bride!
When I’m lonely
And feel like
Cashing in my chips,
When I’m melancholy
Beneath autumn street lights,
When my voice quivers
Talking about you
With a friend,
I know, I’d still
Fall in love with you again
If only I could
See you on the beach
Or brushing your hair
Before a mirror.
889
Crisis is a Hair
Toward which the forces creep
Past which forces retrograde
If it come in sleep
To suspend the Breath
Is the most we can
Ignorant is it Life or Death
Nicely balancing.
Let an instant push
Or an Atom press
Or a Circle hesitate
In Circumference
It—may jolt the Hand
That adjusts the Hair
That secures Eternity
From presenting—Here—
An earwig, brown and also shiny
sat on a river bank, alone.
Compared to others he was tiny,
a critter made of skin and bone.
This mission's solitary aim
was simply to elucidate
his role in God's creation game,
to find himself, at any rate.
For many long and lonely hours
he stared into the stream's reflection.
Half sitting in a sea of flowers,
a specimen of weird perfection.
And when the Moon arrived at last,
dead shadows out to find their prey,
the little guy crawled very fast
into a giant stack of hay.
His intricate, but feeble mind
was at a loss as much as ever,
his image, front  and from behind
did look presentable, but never
would he resemble to keen eyes
a hairless critter, plain and nude,
and to this day he does despise
the  EARWIG  name as rather crude.
Do not envy his hair
Because he is blond
And you are not
Ivy ties the cellar door
in autumn, in summer morning glory
wraps the ribs of a mouse.
Love binds me to the one
whose hair I've found in my mouth,
whose sleeping head I kiss,
wondering is it death?
beauty? this dark
star spreading in every direction from the crown of her head.
My love's hair is autumn hair, there
the sun ripens.
My fingers harvest the dark
vegtable of her body.
In the morning I remove it
from my tongue and
sleep again.
Hair spills
through my dream, sprouts
from my stomach, thickens my heart,
and tangles from the brain. Hair ties the tongue dumb.
Hair ascends the tree
of my childhood--the willow
I climbed
one bare foot and hand at a time,
feeling the knuckles of the gnarled tree, hearing
my father plead from his window, _Don't fall!_
In my dream I fly
past summers and moths,
to the thistle
caught in my mother's hair, the purple one
I touched and bled for,
to myself at three, sleeping
beside her, waking with her hair in my mouth.
Along a slippery twine of her black hair
my mother ties ko-tze knots for me:
fish and lion heads, chrysanthemum buds, the heads
of Chinamen, black-haired and frowning.
Li-En, my brother, frowns when he sleeps.
I push back his hair, stroke his brow.
His hairline is our father's, three peaks pointing down.
What sprouts from the body
and touches the body?
What filters sunlight
and drinks moonlight?
Where have I misplaced my heart?
What stops wheels and great machines?
What tangles in the bough
and snaps the loom?
Out of the grave
my father's hair
bursts. A strand
pierces my left sole, shoots
up bone, past ribs,
to the broken heart it stiches,
then down,
swirling in the stomach, in the groin, and down,
through the right foot.
What binds me to this earth?
What remembers the dead
and grows towards them?
I'm tired of thinking.
I long to taste the world with a kiss.
I long to fly into hair with kisses and weeping,
remembering an afternoon
when, kissing my sleeping father, I saw for the first time
behind the thick swirl of his black hair,
the mole of wisdom,
a lone planet spinning slowly.
Sometimes my love is melancholy
and I hold her head in my hands.
Sometimes I recall our hair grows after death.
Then, I must grab handfuls
of her hair, and, I tell you, there
are apples, walnuts, ships sailing, ships docking, and men
taking off their boots, their hearts breaking,
not knowing
which they love more, the water, or
their women's hair, sprouting from the head, rushing toward the feet.
Through many a fragrant cedar grove
A darkened water moans;
And there pale Memory stood with Love
Amongst the moss-green stones.
The shimmering sunlight fell and kissed
The grasstree’s golden sheaves;
But we were troubled with a mist
Of music in the leaves.
One passed us, like a sudden gleam;
Her face was deadly fair.
“Oh, go,” we said, “you homeless Dream
Of Ella’s shining hair!
“We halt, like one with tired wings,
And we would fain forget
That there are tempting, maddening things
Too high to clutch at yet!
“Though seven Springs have filled the Wood
With pleasant hints and signs,
Since faltering feet went forth and stood
With Death amongst the pines.”
From point to point unwittingly
We wish to clamber still,
Till we have light enough to see
The summits of the hill.
“O do not cry, my sister dear,”
Said beaming Hope to Love,
“Though we have been so troubled here
The Land is calm above;
“Beyond the regions of the storm
We’ll find the golden gates,
Where, all the day, a radiant Form,
Our Ella, sits and waits.”
And Memory murmured: “She was one
Of God’s own darlings lent;
And Angels wept that she had gone,
And wondered why she went.
“I know they came, and talked to her,
Through every garden breeze,
About eternal Hills of Myrrh,
And quiet Jasper Seas.
“For her the Earth contained no charms;
All things were strange and wild;
And I believe a Seraph’s arms
Caught up the sainted Child.”
And Love looked round, and said: “Oh, you
That sit by Beulah’s streams,
Shake on this thirsty life the dew
Which brings immortal dreams!
“Ah! turn to us, and greet us oft
With looks of pitying balm,
And hints of heaven, in whispers soft,
To make our troubles calm.
“My Ella with the shining hair,
Behold, these many years,
We’ve held up wearied hands in prayer;
And groped about in tears.”
But Hope sings on: “Beyond the storm
We’ll find the golden gates
Where, all the day, a radiant Form,
Our Ella, sits and waits.”
Her hair
covers my face
she
kisses my mouth
kisses my kisses.
She chuckles.
I stroke her hair.
She sways &
...moves.
Her hair
covers my chest.
She
titillates a nipple
...it tickles.
I run my fingers
through her hair.
She sashays &
...moves.
Her hair
covers my navel
& there...&
there...abouts!
I…almost beside myself
neither...here...nor... there...
Lost in the anywhere
of an everywhere.
I clutch
her hair.
She shimmies &
...moves.
Her hair
covers my crotch.
She
licks it
into shape.
She
goes to say
something
it’s on
the tip of
her tongue.
But, she says nothing
only: “Mmmmm...! ”
& smiles
...smiles.
I close
my eyes.
My hands
entangled in
her hair.
*******
TREAD SOFTLY
We rest on the bed
your head rests against my head
sharing the same dream.
I scrub the long floorboards
in the kitchen, repeating
the motions of other women
who have lived in this house.
And when I find a long gray hair
floating in the pail,
I feel my life added to theirs.
Girl with the long blonde hair,
you wiped a lost tear
out of your eye
when the jet
made the skyline of Los Angeles
fade away in the distance
and giant buildings
disappeared into naught.
So I wondered if you know
how a green country
with plains
and open spaces of the Karoo looks
and have you looked
at wild game grazing,
or will nature
be strange to you?
I couldn’t wait
to be back in my own country
and your opinions about apartheid,
knowing something
but without comprehension,
for a while
pinched me sore
and it was evident
that you didn’t really understand
and also that my country
are slowly but surely
falling to pieces.
I told you something
about my people,
about a country
where the sun always shine
and that I also
just want a place there
and the break
with your boyfriend in Iraq
had split your heart
in two
and we talked for a long time
and suddenly you comprehended
that Afrikaners are just like
any other people
and you were already half in love
when we had to part,
but it was apparent
that we are living
in two different worlds.
Dear can you help me for a while?
asked apologetically for a  good smile,
’No’ replied a friend, keeping distance mile,
worries all around so can’t smile,
Hounded by worries, sick for while,
how can I offer even forced smile,
pain in her voice  Keeping her mild,
mind seized with thought for her child,
She was extremely sorry,
could not afford luxury as money was worry,
situation was tense and she was in hurry,
Mind not working and hand hitting with furry,
I Will do anything for sick child,
can’t remain quite  so mild,
I will have to find some means and way,
Still have no hope and no more say,
’hair’ and ‘hustle’ is answer,
What? Hair and hustle,
what is all this about?
Fumed at answer asked, what is this all about? I asked
Explain it dear nothing going in head,
simple may be lines but can not read,
what do they and what it stand for?
Is that all meaning which they stood for?
Raged at the meaning, hair and hustle stood for,
asked again why? What really they meant?
Hair is just trimming as it is learnt,
Hustle is nothing but only business
I have no option but go for child care,
what is meaning hustle and what about hair,
they loose charm and stand nothing,
I may go for it if offered something,
Life of child is so dear
Pain may be more but I may bear,
Many stories appear and I also hear,
child should get care life I fear,
Child if suffers, I will be broke,
can’t bear any such more stroke,
So do not offer any more joke,
Even get angry if some one poke,
Hustle” I found as prostitute,
So mean word and not good substitute,
It was clever ploy on her part not tell truth,
Situation as warranted life not smooth
I remained restless and night whole awoke,
Packets after packets finished for smoke,
Hustle means selling body as she told,
I could not decide whether move was bold,
I learnt later life was living hell,
She did not find as means well,
I was not ready and also not willing,
But helpless as today soul I am killing
Such golden thin strings
Yeah! I am talking about your hair
Long and natural so shining
Wears away my heart within a moment
Those are yours, those are shining
When they are carved into plaits
They do nothing but enhance your
beauty
Gazing gazing at them my only duty
When air rushes through them
I want that moment to be stopped
Such a beauty your hair has given
They add colours to all your elements
I want my life spent under that shade
I want myself everytime under that
blade
I want to live, I want to die
But I will never say you good bye
Your hair has made me so romantic
That only your hair, your hair
EVERYWHERE
`
Brown in the sun
of the midday born
Silken strands
of crested corn
sparks light the sky
brilliant welder's flash
jewel in disguise
jouster's winning prize.
Jack was nimble
he was quick
but he's not taking
that candlestick.
All the queen's horses
and all the queen's men
run their own courses
then run them again.
`
(I have always dreamed to be bald since I was younger. But there are some things which are stopping me. But this I promise myself, I will really fulfil it sometime soon. Hope you enjoy my short poem.)
I want to cut my hair
Till I only see the skin
I want to walk and run
And feel my hair is gone
It's been a long time dream
To do it But it seems
My guts are getting low
To be so bald, you know
But this I told myself
Before my time is done
I'll cut my hair away
And find out what I say
For I think it is nice
To feel what is not there
I want to be HANDSOME
Even for  short a time.
I don't care for hair
If I was bare of hair, I wouldn't care
For if the weather isn't fair
I have hats and coats to wear
I see no need for this body fuzz
Oh, long ago, there maybe was
Before we knew what clothing does
Some say hair's their "crowning glory"
I don't buy that silly story
They wash and brush and curl and comb it
And some, with beer, they even foam it
They get it cut, they get it styled
Or maybe tease it up all wild
They bleach and braid and dye the stuff
They make it soft, they make it rough
I think that hair is just a pain
It gets in your food, it'll plug your drain
It hangs all down when it gets wet
With rain or snow or even sweat
As far as I can see
From this stuff we should be free
But, you might not agree
Most folks don't think the same as me
But, if you think that hair is fine
Then I wish that I could give you mine
For I'm not bare of hair
I have my share that I must wear
But if it should go, I wouldn't care
'Cause I don't care for hair
My hair like Jesus wore it
Hallelujah I adore it
Hallelujah Mary loved her son
Why don't my mother love me?
Hair, hair, hair, hair, hair, hair, hair
Flow it, show it
Long as God can grow it
My hair, hair, hair, hair, hair, hair, hair
Flow it, show it
Long as God can grow it
My hair
(From the Musical 'Hair')
Hair today, gone tomorrow,
A lock of John Lennon’s hair was sold at auction.
But what I would ask is how sure it is John’s at all?
Did CSI London extract the DNA?
Did the dream team of OJ affirm that it was or wasn’t?
If the locket of hair doesn’t fit, you must acquit.
John’s body was cremated but there are his sons.
What if the sons gave the hair?
Seems to be a hairy question to me?
What about Prince Harry’s hair?
Is the auction price going to more than John’s?
Hair, There and Everywhere.
The hair styles that Beatles wore evoked certain level of social change,
Not to mention that John recognized,
-at rightfully so, - later on so not!
The Beatles were more popular than Christ,
-and of all his hair.
If a single Christ hair were to be found,
A single hair of the Lord would fetch more than John’s lock.
(12-24-2007)
As if we have
any answers.
Still, we imply.
All that I have come
to believe in:
the measurement of time,
the presence of light,
the moon, gaping at us.
Across the lake
there is a girl
running her fingers
through her waist length hair.
Or is it a shadow of something else?
It's intriguing.  I am intrigued by her.
By the slow split she makes
in that curtain of hair.
By the moonlight and it's cravings.
This has been one of the longest days.
Hair styles
Hair colors
Hairdos
Hairfall
Blonde
Brunet te
Redhead
Grey
Or just black
A few strands of which
I found in her comb
In one untravelled recess of wardrobe
An untouched memento
From past two decades
Not graying
Not growing
Undeclined
Undestroyed
black and thick
the only relic
for her son!
Wide cheeks? Let the hair hide the ears.
Broad forehead? Let the hair spills in front.
Dwarf neck? Let the hair in knot be up.
Lanky figure? Let the hair falls on shoulders.
Hair being dense is an asset to woman
27.03.2006
You can grow it or cut it.
You can style it or leave it to blow in the wind.
If it's long you can put it up.
You can have a parting or leave it messy.
It's a fashion.
Love life, love your hair.
Hair is heaven's water flowing eerily over us
Often a woman drifts off down her long hair and is lost
The fun thing about being dead
is the haunting. Revenge. It's Payback Time Whoo Hoo.
I'm updating my Visiting Book,
adding some, crossing off a few
in case my memory's not immortal.
It's quite a long list, though I try to be
as fair as one can inhumanly be:
I've always been the target of con-men
of all ages and oh yes con-dames too.
It took me a while to get wise:
they all think they're smarter than they are...
though by then it's usually too late.
Moving on to those who've bullied me;
who assumed (and alas, oh so did I)
that I was cut out to be a victim;
and all those who I let push me around
for their own promotion, empire, glory, satisfaction...
well now I don't want to bore you but
you get my drift. However, perhaps you didn't know
that the old-fashioned loose white robe
or ectoplasm, cold air, that stuff - out;
like pandemics and computer viruses,
we keep up with the times - it's easy
when there's no time to keep up with.
Photography was a giant step
for ghostkind; when it was still blacknwhite
we were those outafocus blurs that walked
along where the wall wasn 't any more,
through the doors that were not there,
in the life you did not lead,
a bit like Eliot's garden...
but when colour came into your holiday snaps -
there you are, Caribbean-hormoned,
honeymooning with your third young wife,
Viagra-ed, Cialis-ed, sunkissed, gin-blissed,
and hello! we never snapped that family group...with
those two blurry familiar faces in the background...
out in Concorde, back in discord...
Then came computers...you really do make
our task more fun for us; we're the cyber-virus
or ghost in the machine that affects, ha, only yours; and who
picked up your digi-cam that night and photographed your dreams?
or slipped that sexy message under the office address?
the bit I haven't yet worked out
in all this (well-deserved)  fun
is that most of the worst offenders in my visiting-book have -
you know - passed on - and
will be there to (greet?)  me. That thought rather
haunts me.
The Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance will issue a guideline for haircuts on men.
Teheran has been busy this week first condemning a woman to death,
-by stoning, for being an alleged adulterer.
Teheran's judicial vision, being blinded as a woman behind a Burka,
--no tolerance to the shamelessly unforgiven.
It's westernized hairstyles that leads to spiritual upheaval.
'Ponytails, spikes, mullets and Mohawks are now forbidden,
but Elvis-style locks, floppy fringes and Simon Cowell-esque flattops
(don't look now for Iranian Idol is approaching)
get the ayatollahs' seal of approval.'
This reminds me of Hitler,
That little moustache, the inverted Buddhist symbol for happiness,
The goose-stepping, saluting with their arms outstretched servants of The Third Reich
This reminds me of the psychotic leader of the USSR Joseph Stalin,
And all his 'no-goodniks' dressed in similar Army uniforms
and wearing his hair style that he wore and their moustaches that were his clone
This reminds of Castro look-a-likes Cuba a few decades ago,
Same camouflage clothing; same mustache
This reminds of the Mao-Tse-Tung and the revolutionary guard
Same blue-gray suit, same shoes,
(no moustaches; have ever seen a moustache on a Asian man?)
This reminds of Saddam Hussain photo array,
His supporters had the same haircut, same mustache
Kim Jong-il and his goons dressed all alike even until today
What is common element?
They were/are all dictators; they were all self-percieved gods
-or happened to be, acting on God's wish.
Hitler was acting on God's will accordingly to Evangelical Minister the Rev. Hagee,
I wonder that Hagee believes God, unlike the Devil, would steal, destroy and kill Jews;
It seems to be an apparent paradox upon his belief system that should perish.
Anyway back to haircuts done Iranian style.
If a country has sink to low of the barbaric stoning to death of 'alleged' adulterer,
If a country has to silence the political opposition by either marshal or Koranic law,
It's all the same to me, Iran you are no different than any other dictatorship,
Do you really think that God/Allah really cares on what type of haircuts men wear?
The ayatollahs' words are not the words of God/Allah, no more than Pope's words,
Nor that of the Queen of England words.
The Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance need guidance,
-and Iran needs hope,
-for individual justice and freedom under any circumstance.
7-11-10
http: //www.vancouversun.com/life/Iranian+guidance+mode st+haircuts/3241202/story.html
I shudder to think
What life would be like
If women, like men, started thinning;
No peace would be found,
Men would go underground;
There'd be wailing and grief,
There'd be grinding of teeth,
And that would be just the beginning!
Hair-driers and dyes
Would be laid to one side,
As experts were given the time
To find a solution,
To make restitution
By each and all means,
To repairing the genes
Accused of this dastardly crime.
Yes, I shudder to think,
As all women, as one,
Bring all of their powers to bear;
To crush to submission
Illegal permission;
To mess with their beauty,
To ignore their duty
The genes have for growing their hair.
And if the malefactors
Are thinking they'll win
This battle in which they are caught,
They know not their fate,
They've no case to state,
No lesson was learnt,
Even try it, they daren't...
By the way - it was only a thought!
(Written 11th Sept 2012)
O fleece, that down the neck waves to the nape!
O curls! O perfume nonchalant and rare!
O ecstasy! To fill this alcove shape
With memories that in these tresses sleep,
I would shake them like penions in the air!
Languorous Asia, burning Africa,
And a far world, defunct almost, absent,
Within your aromatic forest stay!
As other souls on music drift away,
Mine, O my love! still floats upon your scent.
I shall go there where, full of sap, both tree
And man swoon in the heat of the southern climates;
Strong tresses be the swell that carries me!
I dream upon your sea of amber
Of dazzling sails, of oarsmen, masts, and flames:
A sun-drenched and reverberating port,
Where I imbibe colour and sound and scent;
Where vessels, gliding through the gold and moiré,
Open their vast arms as they leave the shore
To clasp the pure and shimmering firmament.
I'll plunge my head, enamored of its pleasure,
In this black ocean where the other hides;
My subtle spirit then will know a measure
Of fertile idleness and fragrant leisure,
Lulled by the infinite rhythm of its tides!
Pavilion, of autumn-shadowed tresses spun,
You give me back the azure from afar;
And where the twisted locks are fringed with down
Lurk mingled odors I grow drunk upon
Of oil of coconut, of musk, and tar.
A long time! always! my hand in your hair
Will sow the stars of sapphire, pearl, ruby,
That you be never deaf to my desire,
My oasis and my gourd whence I aspire
To drink deep of the wine of memory.
The beauty of her hair bewilders me-
Pouring adown the brow, its cloven tide
Swirling about the ears on either side
And storming round the neck tumultuously:
Or like the lights of old antiquity
Through mullioned windows, in cathedrals wide
Spilled moltenly o'er figures deified
In chastest marble, nude of drapery.
And so I love it- . Either unconfined;
Or plaited in close braidings manifold;
Or smoothly drawn; or indolently twined
In careless knots whose coilings come unrolled
At any lightest kiss; or by the wind
Whipped out in flossy ravellings of gold.
I am running my fingers
Through your hair
And your hair
Feels so
Soft
Like silk
My mom's hair is made of Chocolate Ice Cream.
My dad's hair is made of Mint Ice Cream.
My sister's hair is made of Vanilla Ice Cream.
My halve sister's hair is made of Strawberry Ice Cream.
My brother's hair is made of Coconut Ice Cream.
My halve brother's hair is made of Blue Berry Ice Cream.
My baby sister's hair is made of Banana Split Ice Cream.
What is my hair made out of?
All of the above,
and a hint of sprinkles; -) .
I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair.
Silent and starving, I prowl through the streets.
Bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day
I hunt for the liquid measure of your steps.
I hunger for your sleek laugh,
your hands the color of a savage harvest,
hunger for the pale stones of your fingernails,
I want to eat your skin like a whole almond.
I want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your lovely body,
the sovereign nose of your arrogant face,
I want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes,
and I pace around hungry, sniffing the twilight,
hunting for you, for your hot heart,
like a puma in the barrens of Quitratue.
Translated by Stephen Tapscott
I love my hair
I always toss it around in the air
As if without a care!
I love my hair
Once I caught the super hair bug
Caught it whilst I slept on an old rug
The super lice were playing scratch, scratch, and scratch
While my fingernails were playing catch, catch and catch
Finally my hair was shaven as there was no cure, no other drug
I wore my head on my shoulder for a while with a distasteful shrug
Hiding underneath a cap with obvious bald patches that seemed to match
I love my hair
Long, golden plaited and brown
Enough to move heads around in town
People just want to come near
And stare! Stare at me! Who is that alien from elsewhere?
My hair is beautifully plaited in strands
This kind of hair fashion is high in demand
So many different styles to experiment with and expand
Today a woman needs to look good, do you understand?
I talk to my hair with oils
I say today I need you to curl
And when I style you,
Stay in place, do not spoil!
I wash my hair twice a day
Maybe when I am old, it would go grey
But for now the beauty is here to stay
I hope so, I definitely pray!
Beware all, take care
I love my hair, I love my hair
Don’t touch! But you can stare
You can stare at how I wear
My beautiful hair!
Try and out-do me if you dare!
I love my hair
I like to show it off
Around me do not sneeze or cough
Or with you I can be horribly tough
Around me do not sneeze or cough
If you don’t want to know the meaning of rough
I mean it, this isn’t a bluff!
I love my hair!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Did I see a red hair vixen at several DSW’s?
A ‘canine’ with a fetish of shoes?
It can’t be.
Anyway it has; a wily fox outsmarted the bi-pedals taking their shoes.
I know that this fox has a German background,
She wasn’t a ‘desert fox’ I later found,
Was she related to General Rommel?
Anyway, to make a long story even longer,
This vixen cunningly stole pairs of shoes from people,
She could have stole them for toys,
-for her kits, or wear them in style.
Slippers, boots, and sneakers;
-she had taken them from various porches for awhile.
She tried and tried and tried,
To get the right shoes to fit.
The case was cracked when a forestry worker stumbled upon an astonishing scene in the woods:
-dozens of shoes lay strewn on the forest floor surrounding a fox's den.
Even more were discovered inside!
By the way,
'We found 86 shoes in the den and a further 32 in a nearby quarry,
-where they like to play.'
What were the clues?
Tiny little teeth marks on the shoelaces leads the Count to theorize that the vixen had
been stealing the footwear for her cubs to play with. That, or she 'simply likes
collecting shoes, ' say the locals.
And, really, who could fault a female for liking shoes?
Imelda Marcos had 2400 pairs in her ‘den’.
As far as the vixen correcting her ways.
Not a chance,
'More shoes have gone missing in the last few days.'
(6-18-09)
We put our heads together
(hide behind our hair)
only kisses & promises
happen in here.
We put our heads together
(disappear behind our hair)
the world reduced to a single heartbeat
only love happens here.
We put our heads together
(the world disappears)
Time seems to pass us by
...who cares?
1     I dream of Jeanie with the light brown hair,
2     Borne, like a vapor, on the summer air;
3     I see her tripping where the bright streams play,
4     Happy as the daisies that dance on her way.
5     Many were the wild notes her merry voice would pour.
6     Many were the blithe birds that warbled them o'er:
7     Oh! I dream of Jeanie with the light brown hair,
8     Floating, like a vapor, on the soft summer air.
9     I long for Jeanie with the daydawn smile,
10   Radiant in gladness, warm with winning guile;
11   I hear her melodies, like joys gone by,
12   Sighing round my heart o'er the fond hopes that die: --
13   Sighing like the night wind and sobbing like the rain, --
14   Wailing for the lost one that comes not again:
15   Oh! I long for Jeanie, and my heart bows low,
16   Never more to find her where the bright waters flow.
17   I sigh for Jeanie, but her light form strayed
18   Far from the fond hearts round her native glade;
19   Her smiles have vanished and her sweet songs flown,
20   Flitting like the dreams that have cheered us and gone.
21   Now the nodding wild flowers may wither on the shore
22   While her gentle fingers will cull them no more:
23   Oh! I sigh for Jeanie with the light brown hair,
24   Floating, like a vapor, on the soft summer air.
So I'm black
So I'm white
So I'm yellow
So I'm brown
Does anyone really see me
or just the color of my skin?
Really only two races exist:
the decent and the indecent.
Skin pigmentation
has nothing to do with it.
And
We all bleed red.
The last time I checked
we all put on our pants one leg at a time.
We laugh, we cry, we live, we die!
We could mix beautifully and have lovely children
with chocolate skin or deep deep shades of black and brown
or pale whites and lovely yellows with green eyes.
I would much rather kiss you on the lips
and celebrate life and the potential
for a wider gene pool than fight any day.
God either laughs or cries about enabling us
to see the various shades and colors of existence.
In my world Jesus is black with blue eyes and blond hair.
Mother, when will my hair-braid grow?
milk you said will make it grow,
but still it remains so short.
Mother when will my hair-braid grow
you said like Bal it would be strong,
his braid has grown fat and long,
combing , braiding, bathing, drying,
to the ground like a serpent writhing.
for me you say milk is better.
never delicious bread and butter,
Sur, long live the two brothers,
the twosome of hari and haldhar.
Ô toison, moutonnant jusque sur l'encolure!
Ô boucles! Ô parfum chargé de nonchaloir!
Extase! Pour peupler ce soir l'alcôve obscure
Des souvenirs dormant dans cette chevelure,
Je la veux agiter dans l'air comme un mouchoir!
La langoureuse Asie et la brûlante Afrique,
Tout un monde lointain, absent, presque défunt,
Vit dans tes profondeurs, forêt aromatique!
Comme d'autres esprits voguent sur la musique,
Le mien, ô mon amour! nage sur ton parfum.
J'irai là-bas où l'arbre et l'homme, pleins de sève,
Se pâment longuement sous l'ardeur des climats;
Fortes tresses, soyez la houle qui m'enlève!
Tu contiens, mer d'ébène, un éblouissant rêve
De voiles, de rameurs, de flammes et de mâts:
Un port retentissant où mon âme peut boire
À grands flots le parfum, le son et la couleur
Où les vaisseaux, glissant dans l'or et dans la moire
Ouvrent leurs vastes bras pour embrasser la gloire
D'un ciel pur où frémit l'éternelle chaleur.
Je plongerai ma tête amoureuse d'ivresse
Dans ce noir océan où l'autre est enfermé;
Et mon esprit subtil que le roulis caresse
Saura vous retrouver, ô féconde paresse,
Infinis bercements du loisir embaumé!
Cheveux bleus, pavillon de ténèbres tendues
Vous me rendez l'azur du ciel immense et rond;
Sur les bords duvetés de vos mèches tordues
Je m'enivre ardemment des senteurs confondues
De l'huile de coco, du musc et du goudron.
Longtemps! toujours! ma main dans ta crinière lourde
Sèmera le rubis, la perle et le saphir,
Afin qu'à mon désir tu ne sois jamais sourde!
N'es-tu pas l'oasis où je rêve, et la gourde
Où je hume à longs traits le vin du souvenir?
Head of Hair
O fleecy hair, falling in curls to the shoulders!
O black locks! O perfume laden with nonchalance!
Ecstasy! To people the dark alcove tonight
With memories sleeping in that thick head of hair.
I would like to shake it in the air like a scarf!
Sweltering Africa and languorous Asia,
A whole far-away world, absent, almost defunct,
Dwells in your depths, aromatic forest!
While other spirits glide on the wings of music,
Mine, O my love! floats upon your perfume.
I shall go there, where trees and men, full of vigor,
Are plunged in a deep swoon by the heat of the land;
Heady tresses be the billows that carry me away!
Ebony sea, you hold a dazzling dream
Of rigging, of rowers, of pennons and of masts:
A clamorous harbor where my spirit can drink
In great draughts the perfume, the sound and the color;
Where the vessels gliding through the gold and the moire
Open wide their vast arms to embrace the glory
Of a clear sky shimmering with everlasting heat.
I shall bury my head enamored with rapture
In this black sea where the other is imprisoned;
And my subtle spirit caressed by the rolling
Will find you once again, O fruitful indolence,
Endless lulling of sweet-scented leisure!
Blue-black hair, pavilion hung with shadows,
You give back to me the blue of the vast round sky;
In the downy edges of your curling tresses
I ardently get drunk with the mingled odors
Of oil of coconut, of musk and tar.
A long time! Forever! my hand in your thick mane
Will scatter sapphires, rubies and pearls,
So that you will never be deaf to my desire!
Aren't you the oasis of which I dream, the gourd
From which I drink deeply, the wine of memory?
— Translated by William Aggeler
Her Hair
O fleece that down her nape rolls, plume on plume!
O curls! O scent of nonchalance and ease!
What ecstasy! To populate this room
With memories it harbours in its gloom,
I'd shake it like a banner on the breeze.
Hot Africa and languid Asia play
(An absent world, defunct, and far away)
Within that scented forest, dark and dim.
As other souls on waves of music swim,
Mine on its perfume sails, as on the spray.
I'll journey there, where man and sap-filled tree
Swoon in hot light for hours. Be you my sea,
Strong tresses! Be the breakers and gales
That waft me. Your black river holds, for me,
A dream of masts and rowers, flames and sails.
A port, resounding there, my soul delivers
With long deep draughts of perfumes, scent, and clamour,
Where ships, that glide through gold and purple rivers,
Fling wide their vast arms to embrace the glamour
Of skies wherein the heat forever quivers.
I'll plunge my head in it, half drunk with pleasure —
In this black ocean that engulfs her form.
My soul, caressed with wavelets there may measure
Infinite rocking& in embalmed leisure,
Creative idleness that fears no storm!
Blue tresses, like a shadow-stretching tent,
You shed the blue of heavens round and far.
Along its downy fringes as I went
I reeled half-drunken to confuse the scent
Of oil of coconuts, with musk and tar.
My hand forever in your mane so dense,
Rubies and pearls and sapphires there will sow,
That you to my desire be never slow —
Oasis of my dreams, and gourd from whence
Deep-draughted wines of memory will flow.
— Translated by Roy Campbell
The Fleece
O shadowy fleece that falls and curls upon those bare
Lithe shoulders! O rich perfume of forgetfulness!
O ecstasy! To loose upon the midnight air
The memories asleep in this tumultuous hair,
I long to rake it in my fingers, tress by tress!
Asia the languorous, the burning solitude
Of Africa — a whole world, distant, all but dead —
Survives in thy profundities, O odorous wood!
My soul, as other souls put forth on the deep flood
Of music, sails away upon thy scent instead.
There where the sap of life mounts hot in man and tree,
And lush desire untamed swoons in the torrid zone,
Undulant tresses, wild strong waves, oh, carry me!
Dream, like a dazzling sun, from out this ebony sea
Rises; and sails and banks of rowers propel me on.
All the confusion, all the mingled colors, cries,
Smells of a busy port, upon my senses beat;
Where smoothly on the golden streakèd ripples flies
The barque, its arms outspread to gather in the skies,
Against whose glory trembles the unabating heat.
In this black ocean where the primal ocean roars,
Drunken, in love with drunkenness, I plunge and drown;
Over my dubious spirit the rolling tide outpours
Its peace — oh, fruitful indolence, upon thy shores,
Cradled in languor, let me drift and lay me down!
Blue hair, darkness made palpable, like the big tent
Of desert sky all glittering with many a star
Thou coverest me — oh, I am drugged as with the blent
Effluvia of a sleeping caravan, the scent
Of coco oil impregnated with musk and tar.
Fear not! Upon this savage mane for ever thy lord
Will sow pearls, sapphires, rubies, every stone that gleams,
To keep thee faithful! Art not thou the sycamored
Oasis whither my thoughts journey, and the dark gourd
Whereof I drink in long slow draughts the wine of dreams?
— Translated by George Dillon
Of Her Hair
O fleece, billowing on her neck! O ecstasy!
O curls, O perfume rich with nonchalance, O rare!.
Tonight to fill the alcove's warm obscurity,
To make that hair evoke each dormant memory,
I long to wave it like a kerchief in the air.
Africa smoldering and Asia languorous,
A whole far distant world, absent and almost spent,
Dwells in your forest depths, mystic and odorous!
As others lose themselves in the harmonious,
So, love, my heart floats lost upon your haunting scent.
I shall go where both man and tree, albeit strong,
Swoon deep beneath the rays of sunlight's blazing fires.
Thick tresses, be the waves to bear my dreams along!
Ebony sea, your dazzling dream contains a throng
Of sails, of wafts, of oarsmen, and of masts like spires.
A noisy harbor where my thirsty soul may drain
Hues, sounds and fragrances, in draughts heavy and sweet,
Where vessels gliding down a moiré-and-gold sea lane
Open their vast arms wide to clutch at the domain
Of a pure sky ashimmer with eternal beat.
Deep shall I plunge my head, avid of drunkenness,
In this black sea wherein the other sea lies captured,
And my soul buoyant at its undulant caress
Shall find you once again, O fruitful idleness,
O long lullings of ease, soft, honeyed and enraptured.
O blue-black hair, pennon with sheen and shadow fraught,
You give me back the vast blue skies of dawn and dusk,
As on the downy edges of your tresses, caught
In your soft curls, I grow drunken and hot, distraught
By mingled scents of cocoanut and tar and musk.
Sapphires, rubies, pearls — my hand shall never tire
Of strewing these through your thick mane — how lavishly! —
Lest Life should ever turn you deaf to my desire!
You are the last oasis where I dream, afire,
The gourd whence deep I quaff the wine of memory.
— Translated by Jacques LeClercq
The Head of Hair
O Fleece, foaming to the neck!
O curls! O scent of laziness!
Ecstasy! This evening, to people the dark comers
Of memories that are sleeping in these locks,
I would wave them in the air like a handkerchief!
Languorous Asia and burning Africa,
A whole world, distant, absent, almost extinct,
Lives in the depths of your perfumed jungle;
As other souls sail along on music,
So mine, O my love, swims on your scent.
I shall go over there where trees and men, full of sap,
Faint away slowly in the passionate climate;
O strong locks, be the sea-swell that transports me!
You keep, O sea of ebony, a dazzling dream
Of sails and sailormen, flames and masts:
A resounding haven where in great waves
My soul can drink the scent, the sound and color;
Where ships, sliding in gold and watered silk,
Part their vast arms to embrace the glory
Of the pure sky shuddering with eternal heat
I shall plunge my head, adoring drunkenness,
Into this black ocean where the other is imprisoned;
And my subtle spirit caressed by the sway
Will know how to find you, O pregnant idleness!
In an infinite cradle of scented leisure!
Blue hair, house of taut darkness,
You make the blue of the sky seem huge and round for me;
On the downy edges of your twisted locks
I hungrily get drunk on the muddled fragrances
Of coconut oil, of musk and tar
For a long time! For ever! Amongst your heavy mane
My hand will strew the ruby, pearl and sapphire
To make you never deaf to my desire!
For are you not the oasis where I dream, the gourd
Where in great draughts I gulp the wine of memory?
— Translated by Geoffrey Wagner
O fleece, that down the neck waves to the nape!
O curls! O perfume nonchalant and rare!
O ecstasy! To fill this alcove shape
With memories that in these tresses sleep,
I would shake them like penions in the air!
Languorous Asia, burning Africa,
And a far world, defunct almost, absent,
Within your aromatic forest stay!
As other souls on music drift away,
Mine, O my love! still floats upon your scent.
I shall go there where, full of sap, both tree
And man swoon in the heat of the southern climates;
Strong tresses be the swell that carries me!
I dream upon your sea of amber
Of dazzling sails, of oarsmen, masts, and flames:
A sun-drenched and reverberating port,
Where I imbibe colour and sound and scent;
Where vessels, gliding through the gold and moiré,
Open their vast arms as they leave the shore
To clasp the pure and shimmering firmament.
I'll plunge my head, enamored of its pleasure,
In this black ocean where the other hides;
My subtle spirit then will know a measure
Of fertile idleness and fragrant leisure,
Lulled by the infinite rhythm of its tides!
Pavilion, of autumn-shadowed tresses spun,
You give me back the azure from afar;
And where the twisted locks are fringed with down
Lurk mingled odors I grow drunk upon
Of oil of coconut, of musk, and tar.
A long time! always! my hand in your hair
Will sow the stars of sapphire, pearl, ruby,
That you be never deaf to my desire,
My oasis and my gourd whence I aspire
To drink deep of the wine of memory.
Translated by Anonymous
I am a Phantom of the opera
My breeze it unties the air
I have blue whispered vison's
And some very long silver hair
I dance down romance lane
That the Roses paved today
Glistening aromatic petals
Of a velvet-toned petal inlay
Whispers of private promises
Softly move throughout this space
Encounters of Origami lovers
Come at last face to face
While in the background
Playing a mystical mandolin
Pulsing out the melodies
Of where true love begins
Moving on over the ages
Together forever oh so rare
But not impossible at all
When it comes to being
Lady Silver Hair
Chief of organic Numbers!
Old Scholar of the Spheres!
Thy spirit never slumbers,
But rolls about our ears
For ever and for ever.
O, what a mad endeavour
Worketh he
Who, to thy sacred and ennobled hearse,
Would offer a burnt sacrifice of verse
And Melody!
How heavenward thou soundedst
Live Temple of sweet noise;
And discord unconfoundedst:
Giving delight new joys,
And Pleasure nobler pinions--
O where are thy Dominions!
Lend thine ear
To a young delian oath--aye, by thy soul,
By all that from thy mortal Lips did roll;
And by the Kernel of thine earthly Love,
Beauty, in things on earth and things above,
When every childish fashion
Has vanish'd from my rhyme
Will I grey-gone in passion
Give to an after-time
Hymning and harmony
Of thee, and of thy Words and of thy Life:
But vain is now the bruning and the strife--
Pangs are in vain -- until I grow high-rife
With Old Philosophy
And mad with glimpses at futurity!
For many years my offerings must be hush'd:
When I do speak I'll think upon this hour,
Because I feel my forehead hot and flush'd,
Even at the simplest vassal of thy Power,--
A Lock of thy bright hair!
Sudden it came,
And I was startled when I heard thy name
Coupled so unaware--
Yet, at the moment, temperate was my blood:
Methought I had beheld it from the flood.
1
You scream, waking from a nightmare.
When I sleepwalk
into your room, and pick you up,
and hold you up in the moonlight, you cling to me
hard,
as if clinging could save us. I think
you think
I will never die, I think I exude
to you the permanence of smoke or stars,
even as
my broken arms heal themselves around you.
2
I have heard you tell
the sun, don't go down, I have stood by
as you told the flower, don't grow old,
don't die. Little Maud,
I would blow the flame out of your silver cup,
I would suck the rot from your fingernail,
I would brush your sprouting hair of the dying light,
I would scrape the rust off your ivory bones,
I would help death escape through the little ribs of your body,
I would alchemize the ashes of your cradle back into wood,
I would let nothing of you go, ever,
until washerwomen
feel the clothes fall asleep in their hands,
and hens scratch their spell across hatchet blades,
and rats walk away from the cultures of the plague,
and iron twists weapons toward the true north,
and grease refuses to slide in the machinery of progress,
and men feel as free on earth as fleas on the bodies of men,
and lovers no longer whisper to the presence beside them in the
dark, O corpse-to-be ...
And yet perhaps this is the reason you cry,
this the nightmare you wake screaming from:
being forever
in the pre-trembling of a house that falls.
3
In a restaurant once, everyone
quietly eating, you clambered up
on my lap: to all
the mouthfuls rising toward
all the mouths, at the top of your voice
you cried
your one word, caca! caca! caca!
and each spoonful
stopped, a moment, in midair, in its withering
steam.
Yes,
you cling because
I, like you, only sooner
than you, will go down
the path of vanished alphabets,
the roadlessness
to the other side of the darkness,
your arms
like the shoes left behind,
like the adjectives in the halting speech
of old men,
which once could call up the lost nouns.
4
And you yourself,
some impossible Tuesday
in the year Two Thousand and Nine, will walk out
among the black stones
of the field, in the rain,
and the stones saying
over their one word, ci-gît, ci-gît, ci-gît,
and the raindrops
hitting you on the fontanel
over and over, and you standing there
unable to let them in.
5
If one day it happens
you find yourself with someone you love
in a café at one end
of the Pont Mirabeau, at the zinc bar
where white wine stands in upward opening glasses,
and if you commit then, as we did, the error
of thinking,
one day all this will only be memory,
learn,
as you stand
at this end of the bridge which arcs,
from love, you think, into enduring love,
learn to reach deeper
into the sorrows
to come – to touch
the almost imaginary bones
under the face, to hear under the laughter
the wind crying across the black stones. Kiss
the mouth
which tells you, here,
here is the world. This mouth. This laughter. These temple bones.
The still undanced cadence of vanishing.
6
In the light the moon
sends back, I can see in your eyes
the hand that waved once
in my father's eyes, a tiny kite
wobbling far up in the twilight of his last look:
and the angel
of all mortal things lets go the string.
7
Back you go, into your crib.
The last blackbird lights up his gold wings: farewell.
Your eyes close inside your head,
in sleep. Already
in your dreams the hours begin to sing.
Little sleep's-head sprouting hair in the moonlight,
when I come back
we will go out together,
we will walk out together among
the ten thousand things,
each scratched too late with such knowledge, the wages
of dying is love.
Men looks
Much better
With grey hair
Because
Grey hair
Makes the men looks
Handsome
MO CAILIN ALAINN RUA
(My Beautiful Red Haired Girl)
Your hair
taken by the wind
blown
into flame
a fiery red
Medussa
standing on
the edge
of this
mountain
a world
turned to stone
as if your gaze
froze this landscape
into place.
I too
still as stone
your hair
flaring up into the air
fiery snakes
like thoughts
bursting out of your mind
fighting the sunset
that only
a small box camera
captures
& contains
this photo
cutting off your head
from the rest of you
mythical
untouchable
mo cailin alainn rua
mo cailin alainn rua.
***
RED RIVER
Your hair
trickles down your back
in curls...curls
curl after curl
rivers of ringlets
cascading down your spine.
I want to drown
in the waters of your hair.
You wear a waterfall
over each shoulder
The fiery flames
of your tresses
crashing over thigh & hip & buttock!
My hands
like fishes
swimming all over
your body
splashed with the beauty
of your hair
touching & touching
the sheer
nakedness
of
you.
***** **
WEARING HER HAIR
You stand
before me
dressed only
in the dress
that your hair
weaves about you
naked
yet
not
you wear
your hair
as a magical
garment
from a half remembered half forgotten fairytale.
You undress
throwing your hair over each shoulder
I come to you as if a spell
commanded me to & you
wrap me
in your hair.
Both  our
nakedness
wearing your hair
sheltered here
lost amongst
kisses.
***
A fellow poet(well, it wasn't a fella)       divulged that she too was red of the hair(this had been unknown to me)       and so this homage to redheads came into being just on this wisp of information...the memories and images flood back into being.
Mother's hair has turned to silver
Her skin is all wrinkled and cold
But i'd never trade my mother
For the world and all its gold.  Yes her hair has turned to silver
Her face is all covered with lines
But there'll never be another
Like this gray haired mother of mine.  I think of all the hardships
I have caused her to bare
Then I can see the reasons
For the silver in her hair.  Mother's hair has turned to silver
And her hard working days are done
But there's still a smile on her face
And a love for everyone.
One of your hairs fell out last night:
A piece of your life was gone without a sound.
I know a difficult day is coming,
My heart, pierced, utters a quiet cry.
Let my childhood smile again in the sun
And turn me into an innocent little head louse
So I can crawl through the jungle of your hair
And sing a song of darkness in its fragrance.
Under your fingernail-roof Ill sleep in my house;
In my black dream Ill water your black trees.
Ill pick black fruits, and hair-jungle bees
Will bring me black poems to be opened.
How will I live, without your hair?
How will I breathe, without its fragrance?
How will I survive, when I am discovered
By ghosts of wooden combs combing your hair?
Let me wear shows made of dawn-flowers
And crawl without a sound into your sleep.
Ill take the place of the hair that's gone
And sing of hair-clouds flying from night to day.
BORGIA, thou once wert almost too august
And high for adoration; now thou ’rt dust;
All that remains of thee these plaits unfold,
Calm hair meandering in pellucid gold.
In the old days of our family,
My grandmother was a young woman
Whose hair was as long as the river.
She lived with her sisters on the ranch
La Calera--The Land of the Lime--
And her days were happy.
But her uncle Carlos lived there too,
Carlos whose soul had the edge of a knife.
One day, to teach her to ride a horse,
He made her climb on the fastest one,
Bareback, and sit there
As he held its long face in his arms.
And then he did the unspeakable deed
For which he would always be remembered:
He called for the handsome baby Pirrín
And he placed the child in her arms.
With that picture of a Madonna on horseback
He slapped the shank of the horse's rear leg.
The horse did what a horse must,
Racing full toward the bright horizon.
But first he ran under the álamo trees
To rid his back of this unfair weight:
This woman full of tears
And this baby full of love.
When they reached the trees and went under,
Her hair, which had trailed her,
Equal in its magnificence to the tail of the horse,
That hair rose up and flew into the branches
As if it were a thousand arms,
All of them trying to save her.
The horse ran off and left her,
The baby still in her arms,
The two of them hanging from her hair.
The baby looked only at her
And did not cry, so steady was her cradle.
Her sisters came running to save them.
But the hair would not let go.
From its fear it held on and had to be cut,
All of it, from her head.
From that day on, my grandmother
Wore her hair short like a scream,
But it was long like a river in her sleep.
Amarantha sweet and fair
Ah braid no more that shining hair!
As my curious hand or eye
Hovering round thee let it fly.
Let it fly as unconfin'd
As its calm ravisher, the wind,
Who hath left his darling th'East,
To wanton o'er that spicy nest.
Ev'ry tress must be confest
But neatly tangled at the best;
Like a clue of golden thread,
Most excellently ravelled.
Do not then wind up that light
In ribands, and o'er-cloud in night;
Like the sun in's early ray,
But shake your head and scatter day.
See 'tis broke! Within this grove
The bower, and the walks of love,
Weary lie we down and rest,
And fan each other's panting breast.
Here we'll strip and cool our fire
In cream below, in milk-baths higher:
And when all wells are drawn dry,
I'll drink a tear out of thine eye,
Which our very joys shall leave
That sorrows thus we can deceive;
Or our very sorrows weep,
That joys so ripe, so little keep.
XVIII
I never gave a lock of hair away
To a man, Dearest, except this to thee,
Which now upon my fingers thoughtfully,
I ring out to the full brown length and say
'Take it.' My day of youth went yesterday;
My hair no longer bounds to my foot's glee,
Nor plant I it from rose or myrtle-tree,
As girls do, any more: it only may
Now shade on two pale cheeks the mark of tears,
Taught drooping from the head that hangs aside
Through sorrow's trick. I thought the funeral-shears
Would take this first, but Love is justified,—
Take it thou,—finding pure, from all those years,
The kiss my mother left here when she died.
The light that rises from your feet to your hair,
the strength enfolding your delicate form,
are not mother of pearl, not chilly silver:
you are made of bread, a bread the fire adores.
The grain grew high in its harvest of you,
in good time the flour swelled;
as the dough rose, doubling your breasts,
my love was the coal waiting ready in the earth.
Oh, bread your forehead, your legs, your mouth,
bread I devour, born with the morning light,
my love, beacon-flag of the bakeries:
fire taugh you a lesson of the blood;
you learned your holiness from flour,
from bread your language and aroma.
I never gave a lock of hair away
To a man, dearest, except this to thee,
Which now upon my fingers thoughtfully,
I ring out to the full brown length and say
Take it.
My day of youth went yesterday;
My hair no longer bounds to my foot's glee,
Nor plant I it from rose or myrtle-tree,
As girls do, any more: it only may
Now shade on two pale cheeks the mark of tears,
Taught drooping from the head that hangs aside
Through sorrow's trick. I thought the funeral-shears
Would take this first, but Love is justified,--
Take it thou,--finding pure, from all those years,
The kiss my mother left here when she died.
At midnight,
We walk
In the crisp air
Counting the stars
Casting their starlight
Upon your hair
And sip coffee
In the sleepy town.
loosing my hair
large wad in the brush
let loose outside
robin finds a few strands
for nest building
Its just one more story left untold,
But, This ones different,
Its about a girl, Whos hair was gold,
She had a smile like no other,
Everyone thought she was happy,
But little did they know,
Her smile was fake,
She just wanted to leave, to go,
Be free from the pain shes in,
Her brother, 'He', 'Him',
Emotionly bruised her soul,
She wont let anyone touch her,
Fearing that she will lose control,
Her Father, 'Just another'
So mixed up in alchol and drugs,
He cant even tell how hurt she is,
Her eyes flood with red blood tears,
Her Mother, 'There, But not'
She knows, but doesnt help,
Trying to support a family on her own,
Too much stress, Not enough fears,
And the girl with golden hair,
And a smile like no other?
Well, She struggling to keep it all together,
Crying herself to sleep everynight,
Having to deal with her Brother, Father and Mother,
So do you think the girl with the Golden hair,
And  a smile like no other is really happy?
Well shes not, because her life is rather crappy.
One day I observed a grey hair in my head;
I plucked it right out, when it thus to me said:
'You may smile, if you wish, at your treatment of me,
But a score of my friends soon will make a mockery of you.'
So lovingly to soil she sent her roots
Now caresses the casement its lovely shoots
Starry flowers glow in twilight green
Dance in breeze and in dew they preen
The Jasmeen tree fragrance’s tender lore
Whispering perfumes to yonder shores
Hark! How envy grows out of its roots
Ringlets and threads like ropes brute
Malicious tresses wrap all around
Beauty so green is viciously confound
Pearly flowers tangled in raven hair
But who can capture the maiden so fair
She still stands tall in her turret bower
Laughing in sunshine glowing in shower
Necking birds and gemming flowers
Swing on boughs for hearts a dower
Poison of love wine outdone by balmy tower
Incensed symphony does float on air
Heaving through strangling weed’s snare
there is this little girls with black curly hair
flat nose, thin eyelashes, wavy goatish eyelids,
sitting on a bamboo pole
(the common furniture there)
with bare hands and bare feet
staring at me,
for i am new here and i have a big tummy
and i am white skinned, and i have candied
inside my pockets, she knows that soon
i will throw all these candies in the air
for all the other children
but there is something strange about this
little brown girl with curly hair sitting all alone
on that bamboo chair
her father and mother were killed in the last rebellion.
THE WISEST of the wise
Listen to pretty lies
And love to hear them told;
Doubt not that Solomon
Listen’d to many a one,—
Some in his youth, and more when he grew old.
I never was among
The choir of Wisdom’s song,
But pretty lies lov’d I
As much as any king,
When youth was on the wing,
And (must it then be told?) when youth had quite gone by.
Alas! and I have not
The pleasant hour forgot
When one pert lady said,
“O Walter! I am quite
Bewilder’d with affright!
I see (sit quiet now) a white hair on your head!”
Another more benign
Snipp’d it away from mine,
And in her own dark hair
Pretended it was found…
She leap’d, and twirl’d it round…
Fair as she was, she never was so fair!
There are white flowers in her hair,
blue-white stars when she laughs
in her eyes shining like rainbows,
with a own innocent beauty
with the coming of spring in the air
between the blooming flowers,
in rainbows shining like her eyes,
she finds where the prettiest flowers grow,
she is bounded to loveliness,
she notices roses that are dark like blood
in her eyes shining like rainbows,
but in her cheeks there is a gloss.
Delighted she stands at corn fields
clouds dark and white,
in rainbows shining like her eyes
there is somewhere a pot of gold.
Greet the tender grassblades by your path, and listen
While the clay-sprung grass that's fine as hair will whisper,
Whisper to your heart, which seems so hard of hearing,
'You and I, to time eternity, are equal...'
For Almighty Father God has so arranged that,
Since you both accepted as your destination
Modest earth, you're halves of an equation: riddles
Both: in bloom and ashes, comparable miracles...
Catch this living knowledge, let your eyes be opened,
And from then on you will draw your dwindling moment
From forever – and not have to split the empire
Of the world to muddy earth and starry heaven...
One day I tell her
I love her hair
up.
Another day I tell her
I like her hair
down.
“Which is it? ”
She frowns
“Up
or
down! ”
“Ah...”
I say
“Either
or neither! ”
“I love your hair
up
in that it can
come down
splash all over me.”
“And I love your hair down
in that it can be
put up
in  a cathedral of curls! ”
“I love the one
becoming the other
…the process of
becoming! ”
You leave the room
only to return
with one side up
& one side down.
I laugh.
“Not quite what
I had intended.
You throw yourself
into my lap
let your hair
waterfall
all over me
& I
drown... drown
Thy hue, dear pledge, is pure and bright
As in that well - remember'd night
When first thy mystic braid was wove,
And first my Agnes whisper'd love.
Since then how often hast thou prest
The torrid zone of this wild breast,
Whose wrath and hate have sworn to dwell
With the first sin that peopled hell;
A breast whose blood's a troubled ocean,
Each throb the earthquake's wild commotion!
O if such clime thou canst endure
Yet keep thy hue unstain'd and pure,
What conquest o'er each erring thought
Of that fierce realm had Agnes wrought!
I had not wander'd far and wide
With such an angel for my guide;
Nor heaven nor earth could then reprove me
If she had lived and lived to love me.
Not then this world's wild joys had been
To me one savage hunting scene,
My sole delight the headlong race
And frantic hurry of the chase;
To start, pursue, and bring to bay,
Rush in, drag down, and rend my prey,
Then - from the carcass turn away!
Mine ireful mood had sweetness tamed,
And soothed each wound which pride inflamed: -
Yes, God and man might now approve me
If thou hadst lived and lived to love me!
AMARANTHA sweet and fair,
Ah, braid no more that shining hair!
As my curious hand or eye
Hovering round thee, let it fly!
Let it fly as unconfined
As its calm ravisher the wind,
Who hath left his darling, th' East,
To wanton o'er that spicy nest.
Every tress must be confest,
But neatly tangled at the best;
Like a clew of golden thread
Most excellently ravelled.
Do not then wind up that light
In ribbands, and o'ercloud in night,
Like the Sun in 's early ray;
But shake your head, and scatter day!
I.
Amarantha sweet and faire,
Ah brade no more that shining haire!
As my curious hand or eye,
Hovering round thee, let it flye.
II.
Let it flye as unconfin'd
As it's calme ravisher, the winde,
Who hath left his darling, th' East,
To wanton o're that spicie neast.
III.
Ev'ry tresse must be confest:
But neatly tangled at the best;
Like a clue of golden thread,
Most excellently ravelled.
IV.
Doe not then winde up that light
In ribands, and o'er-cloud in night,
Like the sun in's early ray;
But shake your head, and scatter day.
V.
See, 'tis broke! within this grove,
The bower and the walkes of love,
Weary lye we downe and rest,
And fanne each other's panting breast.
VI.
Heere wee'll strippe and coole our fire,
In creame below, in milk-baths higher:
And when all wells are drawne dry,
I'll drink a teare out of thine eye.
VII.
Which our very joys shall leave,
That sorrowes thus we can deceive;
Or our very sorrowes weepe,
That joyes so ripe so little keepe.
Black beamy hairs, which so seem to arise
From the extraction of those eyes,
That into you she destin-like doth spin
The beams she spares, what time her soul retires,
And by those hallowed fires,
Keeps house all night within.
Since from within her awful front you shine,
As threads of life which she doth twine,
And thence ascending with your fatal rays,
Do crown those temples, where Love's wonders wrought
We afterwards see brought
To vulgar light and praise.
Lighten through all your regions, till we find
The causes why we are grown blind,
That when we should your glories comprehend
Our sight recoils, and turneth back again,
And doth, as 'twere in vain,
Itself to you extend.
Is it because past black there is not found
A fixed or horizontal bound?
And so, as it doth terminate the white,
It may be said all colors to infold,
And in that kind to hold
Somewhat of infinite?
Or is it that the center of our sight
Being veiled in its proper night
Discerns your blackness by some other sense
Than that by which it doth pied colors see,
Which only therefore be
Known by their difference?
Tell us, when on her front in curls you lie
So diapred from that black eye.
That your reflected forms may make us know
That shining light in darkness all would find,
Were they not upward blind
With the sunbeams below.
It lies before me there, and my own breath
Stirs its thin outer threads, as though beside
The living head I stood in honoured pride,
Talking of lovely things that conquer death.
Perhaps he pressed it once, or underneath
Ran his fine fingers when he leant, blank-eyed,
And saw in fancy Adam and his bride
With their heaped locks, or his own Delphic wreath.
There seems a love in hair, though it be dead.
It is the gentlest, yet the strongest thread
Of our frail plant,--a blossom from the tree
Surviving the proud trunk; as if it said,
Patience and gentleness in power. In me
Behold affectionate eternity.
In this small Character is sent
My Loves eternal Monument.
Whil'st we shall live, know, this chain'd Heart
Is our affections counter-part.
And if we never meet, think I
Bequeath'd it as my Legacy.
Dew sate on Julia's hair,
And spangled too,
Like leaves that laden are
With trembling dew;
Or glitter'd to my sight,
As when the beams
Have their reflected light
Danced by the streams.
When Memory, with gentle hand,
Has led me to that foreign land
Of childhood days, I long to be
Again the boy on bended knee,
With head a-bow, and drowsy smile
Hid in a mother's lap the while,
With tender touch and kindly care,
She bends above and combs my hair.
Ere threats of Time, or ghosts of cares
Had paled it to the hue it wears,
Its tangled threads of amber light
Fell o'er a forehead, fair and white,
That only knew the light caress
Of loving hands, or sudden press
Of kisses that were sifted there
The times when mother combed my hair.
But its last gleams of gold have slipped
Away; and Sorrow's manuscript
Is fashioned of the snowy brow--
So lined and underscored now
That you, to see it, scarce would guess
It e'er had felt the fond caress
Of loving lips, or known the care
Of those dear hands that combed my hair.
. . . . . . . .
I am so tired! Let me be
A moment at my mother's knee;
One moment--that I may forget
The trials waiting for me yet:
One moment free from every pain--
O! Mother! Comb my hair again!
And I will, oh, so humbly bow,
For I've a wife that combs it now.
My youngest son asked me this as we were
laying around arguing whether I was going to read more than one book or not…
will grandma Mickey’s hair still be white,  when we are in heaven?
why do six year olds think about life and death?
why do they not seem afraid
and see it as a natural part of living life
we fear death,
we avoid hospitals, when friends are ill
and when we do go there it is quick to help speed the recovery
of the ill and get out as quick as you can
when people are ill we don’t see them as much,
they understand no one wants to be around seriously ill people
and don’t invite themselves to events they know
will cause others grief
will grandma Mickey’s hair still be white, when we are in heaven?
shows an understanding that she will be in a form that we will recognize
and still be our grandmother
and white signifies pureness, in every circumstance
except as related to hair
will grandma Mickey’s hair still be white, when we are in heaven?
is a question best answered by saying
what color would you want her hair to be
and hope he answers
whatever color she would want
Go ahead and buy yourself a drink
A few more, and the pain will ease.
As you kneel before the porcelain God
Ask yourself if it was worth it.
Was the momentary peace of mind
Worth the six hour hangover?
And besides, it was only a figment of your imagination
You were never really at peaces with yourself.
It was just a drunken blur
The pain was always there.
(written in Palilan river, Palilan Jimenez, Mis. Occ.'Philippines
just a 10 m.. away from my home.A river is located at the back my
elem. grade school and to where i spent my concised childhood
moments, leisure times, chanting with friends, swimming, collecting shells, diving,
and escaping  from 'undefined responsibilities'..........
A sentimental wind
follows down river;
bands of finger
brush the long column
of nipa leaves
whispering among
long-legged roots
of mangrove trees
Combing out my hair
in thrilling touch
Pulling out all wrinkles
of fears
in facing of my  shadowy
future
and the wind dries up
all my tears
and the sole river remains
the  mute witness forever
Chords of the most beautiful song,
With my eyes, tracing the prominent
Vein that followed the course of his arm,
Round and round, over and once again,
In love, from the whole painting
To the small details and the even smaller
Obscure signature like a mark or a sign
Kept hidden, yet so visible.
For eyes that do not see what I see,
Will never find the perfect melody
I played mentally, while running
Long fingers and polished fingernails
Through those strings of His hair.
The moment, only created by a sudden
Bolt of beauty that dear Helios
Wished upon and for, for me
Can I only say thank you?
Such rays, soon soon they were gone;
I have but to ask the gods one more
Precious treasure by their hands given.
Eros, beloved Eros, have my heart as long
As his becomes mine, for I do not mind
just so I could render my song.
A tune for my heart; Oh let his youth
Be forever, diamond like;
So will my devotion to Thee.
For a whole minute, the whole world
All the unbelievable forces that we dare
Deny the existence of, re-arranged time
And life to, in a whole minute,
Replace my widowing heart and soul
And create the most sublime
Single measurement of time
That will forever and ever, eternally
Remind me of how gold and bold
Love can be.
They have painted and sung
the women washing their hair,
and the plaits and strands in the sun,
and the golden combs
and the combs of elephant tusks
and the combs of buffalo horn and hoof.
The sun has been good to women,
drying their heads of hair
as they stooped and shook their shoulders
and framed their faces with copper
and framed their eyes with dusk or chestnut.
The rain has been good to women.
If the rain should forget,
if the rain left off for a year—
the heads of women would wither,
the copper, the dusk and chestnuts, go.
They have painted and sung
the women washing their hair—
reckon the sun and rain in, too.
Mommy's getting wrinkles.
Daddy has grey hair.
It wasn't very long ago
when those things weren't there.
Wish I could smooth the wrinkles out
and darken Daddy's hair
to stop the changes going on.
It makes me feel so scared.
Grampa, does it mean they'll die?
They have wrinkles and grey hair!
I never used to worry
before those things were there.
Grampa said to look at him.
There were lots of wrinkles there,
and on his head, a snowstorm
was the color of his hair.
'Wrinkles only come to point
where smiles were, here and there.
It's your mommy's turn to get some
for the happy times you've shared.'
His white, and Daddy's grey hair
well, it was there to show
who had lived the longest time
so everyone could know!
Grampa said it's part of life.
We love, we learn, we live.
We earn grey hair and wrinkles,
they're prizes only God can give.
Your God-gifted face,
Golden hair,
Glistening face,
Lustrous eyes,
Rosy cheeks,
Pink lips,
Admire I, appreciate I
Your fair and fine face,
Good looking,
Your voice so sweet and golden,
I admire you, admire and appreciate you,
A great beauty are you
So lovely to look at
With the golden locks hanging,
Tell me, who, who are you,
Lassie?
Who, who are you, blonde,
Belle so sweet,
Please pass by not,
Let me take a photo,
A girl never seen before,
Forcing me to compare with a balsam,
Brownish grey and glistening.
Your hair
(fine as a baby’s fine)
so soft
softly
your hair
falls asleep
before the rest
of you.
Your hair
dreams of being
stroked
caressed.
The rest of you
follows suit
& soon
all of you
is sleeping.
Your hair
dreaming of my hands.
Your body
dreaming of my hands.
Dream & Reality
merging.
Your orange hair in the void of the world
In the void of these heavy panes of silence
Shade where my bare hands seek your image.
The shape of your heart is chimerical
And your love resembles my lost desire.
O sighs of amber, dreams, glances.
But you were not always here. My memory
Is still obscured by seeing your coming
And going. Time consumes words, like love.
Your strange hair, cold light,
Has pale glows and blond dullness;
Your gaze has the blue of ether and waves;
Your gown has the chill of the breeze and the woods.
I burn the whiteness of your fingers with kisses.
The night air spreads the dust from many worlds.
Still I don't know anymore, in the heart of those deep nights,
How to see you with the passion of yesterday.
The moon grazed you with a slanted glow ...
It was terrible, like prophetic lightning
Revealing the hideous below your beauty.
I saw-as one sees a flower fade-
On your mouth, like summer auroras,
The withered smile of an old whore.
You wear
my kisses
in your hair
invisible
to everyone
but us
they glisten
like emotional jewelry
bloom like flowers
of desire
you wear
my kisses
in your hair
smiling secretly
to your self
as to how
they got there
& to where
the other kisses
...are!
Your burst of laughter
An exploding waterfall
Bring me happiness
Written Jan.4,2008
Happy is the one,
and happy is he alone
who can truly call
today his very own
he who can boldly
stand up and say
tomorrow come
and do what you may
I have lived the best today
Love is so beautiful,
In love there is loss,
Life is still beautiful,
Do not cause loss,
If it occurs to you,
Just accept it.
None causes loss,
It just happens,
Forgive those,
Who appear to have,
Caused loss to you,
Forgiveness is noble.
Let her be happy,
And at peace,
If she could not,
She would have a reason,
Let god take care of her,
Wish her happiness and peace.
There is a drunk boy in my bed and he smells.
I want him to leave so I can wash the sheets,
clean up,
arrange things, erase this episode
in my single hood.
Scandal, scandal, scandal, boys boys boys:
woke up this morning, no love in the bed.
You and I should meet for lunch. You can give me
advice. I sometimes feel judged. But that is from my
friends who aren't getting any.
Right now I guess I am wrapped up in the excitedness of it all.
But it is getting lonely here because most of my friends are getting
married.
One day, after all of this I will be married and happy and all that
Love, Anita.
(dedicated to Ms. Patricia Petibon, a great soprano)
Where is happiness?
Why it doesn't show up lately?
Why it doesn't sound lately?
Why it doesn't feel lately?
or we don't know it
don't feel it anymore
don't see it anymore
don't want it anymore
Who's deserve it?
Who's need it?
Who's deny it?
Who's is it?
it feels
when you feels
someone else
feels it
it sounds
when you hears
someone else
sings it
it shows
when you sees
someone else
paints it
it rounds
when you are there
with someone else
works on it
it depends
how much you care
how much you dare
how much you need
it fragrances
in the blossom
of your flowers, your forests
of your smiles, your gardens
it dances
in the charming
of your pets, your seas
of your laughs, your children
it walks
in the colorful
of your trees, your lakes
of your rivers, your mountains
it jumps
in the joyful
of your Birthday, your parents
of your beloved, your friends
everyone deserve it
everyone need it
no one deny it
nothing like it
Photographs capture memories
Good and bad alike
Sad times and happy times
They capture the emotion
Mom, leaning into Dad
Smiling, with presents in her hands
Her bright-red hair, blending with Dad's
As she sits in her Pooh Bear sweatshirt
Dad sits there, smiling,
In my favorite plaid, green shirt,
Reading the newspaper
It's Christmas Eve down in the basement
They sit on the blue-striped sofa,
Sitting close together
They smile as I take the photo
The last little bit of happiness
Mom and Dad were happy then,
But they're not anymore
They don't talk, smile, or even hug
They hardly show emotion
It takes its toll on my family
Last night Dad called me, crying
I love my mom and I love my dad,
But I don't think I can choose
I'll always have this photo, though,
To remind me of back then-
Back when they were happy
When I had that camera in my hand.
Their judgment untrue
I cannot see
why it means so much
to torcher me
Why they cannot simply
let me go
why their hated words
seem rehearsed to flow
Maybe they've always held this deep down
maybe I was always an enemy
behind their loving frown
It doesn’t mean as much
to tell them I’m not free
nor that I didn't commit a crime
that I am not guilty
Or at least that’s what I tell myself
and maybe I am wrong
maybe though I did no action
my heart sang a guilty song
So if it makes them happy
I shall tell them how
that I did desire
any better now?
But I held my tongue
and put hands to the sky
this I will tell you
is no lie
Can you blame me for wanting?
I'm a human too
and when you really think about it
that’s what humans do
So give me your sober looks
if it helps you ease
I will stay a nomad as I was
so hate me if you please
The happiness of others is my happiness-
Their sadness is my sadness-
Without them I cannot wholly be who I am-
And what they are to me
Helps make me real to myself.
Hypnotic beats
Melodic rhythms
Close your eyes
Listen and hear
Explore the gift of your senses
Open the door to the power they contain
I want to show you a place where time stands still?
Where there are no rules or room for judgment
In this space that thrives on unique self expression
Maybe you have been to this amazing wonderland?
Take my hand - hold it softly in yours
Devote your soul to the joy that is music
Let the warming melody swirl and dance
Allow your mind to absorb beautiful sounds
Now open your eyes – and open your ears
We are here –
We are not alone in this dream
Look around with a perception now so bright and clear
Friendly smiles kindly greet us with acceptance
Priceless emotions soak up every inch of space
Do you feel the bliss that I feel?
Are you able to hear the gift of sound in the music?
Can you see with a vision of peace and tranquility?
I look into your eyes glistening like shining glass
Your smile glowing with radiance from within
The hug we shared held the warmth of a close friend
Silently but quite clearly your answer is evident
Welcome to happiness.
Behind the door of happiness hides a frown,
who’s always afraid to come out.
She’s afraid to show herself to everyone,
so she always lets a smile out.
No matter how sad or deeply hurt,
she pretends as if there’s nothing wrong.
So she always put her smile on,
to prove that she is strong.
But when she couldn’t bare the pain no more,
the smile’s no where to be found.
The frown finally came out of the door,
but no comfort was around.
Rainy springs and long hard winters,
was like autumn’s cold windy breeze.
Throughout the year and into the summer,
she was never truly pleased.
Behind the door of happiness hides a frown,
who’s always afraid to come out.
She’s afraid to show herself to everyone,
so she always lets a smile out.
Greet the bright dawn with joy,
Raise your spirit to the light,
Then your smile you must employ,
Swiftly expelling the gloomy night.
A new day comes into view,
To be shaped and to redesign,
And each move will be, by you
So perfect, so right and fine.
The birds will start their song,
And delight in this newborn day,
And with your courage so strong,
Exhilaration will come your way.
Greet the bright  dawn with joy,
Don't give in to tears and stress,
Find nothing that might annoy,
Come to know complete happiness.
Buying a car today would be so nice!
Having a car thats old is quite alright;
Getting a car tomorrow would be wise!
Changing a car each day would not be right.
Having something thats old is good enough;
Having something today seems still better;
Having something tomorrow is quite tough;
Yet, satisfaction's prime that must matter.
Each thing in time has its advantages;
Postponement's not something you always do;
One shouldn't decide slowly or take ages;
All things have demerits and beauty too!
Yet, values old have stood the test of time!
And modern things don't make life more sublime!
I’ve never thought
In terms of happiness,
It always seemed
More mythic than Zeus
And less obtainable
Than gold and other precious stones.
I do what I have to do to survive,
I try to show kindness to strangers,
Apologize when I hurt someone,
Never relish in an enemy’s demise,
And never take anything
That isn’t rightfully mine.
What I’ve missed in happiness
Will be returned in the perfumed breeze
Of spring flowers
That God will waft to me
When I lie down in eternal sleep.
TOGETHER at the altar we
In vision oft were seen by thee,
Thyself as bride, as bridegroom I.
Oft from thy mouth full many a kiss
In an unguarded hour of bliss
I then would steal, while none were by.
The purest rapture we then knew,
The joy those happy hours gave too,
When tasted, fled, as time fleets on.
What now avails my joy to me?
Like dreams the warmest kisses flee,
Like kisses, soon all joys are gone.
Sometimes it flutters
Gaily round my sparkling smiles
Like a butterfly;
Sometimes it glides in the air
Like soap bubble- Touch- It pricks!
Confused tired and weary,
Like white clouds above,
Drifting in an untold story;
Night’s desire wrapped in cove,
With arms not lonely though;
Waiting for happy tomorrow,
To bring a passion to fend,
And not to drift in old sorrow,
Hoping to bring an end,
With the happiness borrowed;
“Happiness resides not in possessions, and not in gold, ”
“The feeling of happiness dwells in the soul.” Aristotle  Wise
words from a wise philosopher
What stirs up the soul, to warm the heart, and sets the spirit free?
Is it baby’s first word, - a promotion at work, or just to be - little ole
Me?
Some of us are in search of a world of perceptual bliss
However, here on Earth this world just simply does not exist
Along with the good times, we must learn to live with the bad
Living to make a wrong, right, a feeling of happiness we
Magically add
To turn a hopeless frown, into a new awaking smile,
Is when you discover a solution, which needs to be nourished
With a walk - of an additional mile
Do not look at your brother and see, - All of the external bad
Look inside to see - all of the good, - this is what will make you
Glad
Barry Mcquire’s big hit of the ’60s “Eve of destruction'
Was challenged by The Spokesmen’s “Dawn of correction”
The moral of this story is “When life sets your mind into
Troublesome swirls”
Remember!  “Happiness” is a treasure hidden deep within,
For we have to dive - for pearls
I am here with the music,
Never more to roam.
I am up beyond white clouds
Because Heaven is my home.
All my life I have waited
To be where you are,
I am here with the music
And my faithful guitar.
The gates they were golden
The roses were red
When I entered herein
Like a sheep I was led.
But I'll live here forever
With the ones I adore,
I am here with the music
Through Heaven's open door.
August 2008
‘Does Happiness depend upon comfort? ’
The answer is definitely a big, ‘No! ’
Happiness lies in not comforts alone!
Happiness is not a static quality of the human mind, body and soul.
All can’t remain happy all the time.
It would be foolishness to wish for a life, filled with happiness alone;
Happiness is more when woes come in-between.
Happiness is just a feeling weird!
Life could become boring and monotonous, when happiness is prolonged.
Even the pauper can be happier than the prince.
Even the beggar smiles and sleeps well, despite much strife.
Happiness is a frame of mind that’s dynamic in nature;
Happiness is a kind of mood of feeling very well;
Happiness is a state of one, when life seems worth living;
Happiness is something strange that varies with time, experience and wisdom.
Happiness is all within;
Happiness is in giving;
Happiness is in sharing;
Happiness is the ceiling, whatever you fix!
Happiness does not wholly depend on comforts;
Happiness cannot be bought by money;
Happiness is not all luxury;
Happiness is abstract to the core!
Happiness is in being child-like, though adult;
Happiness is in making and seeing the less fortunate ones, smile;
Happiness is in acting adult-like, although a child
Happiness is in giving something to someone, although you still need it.
Happiness is in sacrificing for others’ sake;
Happiness is in giving up your chance to someone, who most needs it;
Happiness is in doing acts of charity;
Happiness is when you’ve led a righteous life.
Happiness to some is in dreams alone;
Happiness to some doing risky feats;
Happiness to a few is in a sheer lazy life;
Happiness to some is in yeoman service to mankind.
Happiness is a phenomenon;
Happiness is a quirk of fate;
Happiness is quite rare and scarce at times;
Happiness to some is in living in a virtual world!
Happiness is in braving the storms of life;
Happiness is in toiling for others’ sakes;
Happiness is in sharing your talents and ken;
Happiness is in loving your poor brethren.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 6-15-2008
Happiness is the way to happiness!
There's a certain kind of magic,
that exists within your eyes.
It's there I can see what I mean to you…
It's there you loose your disguise.
There's something in your movements,
so assured, so strong and true.
It's no wonder there are entire days,
when I can think of only you.
There is a certain moment,
it happens right before we kiss…
it's a moment filled with splendor…
followed by a moment filled with bliss.
There is a magical tingle,
when ever you touch my skin.
The same way you touch my spirit,
which warms me from within.
There's something in your face,
I see it often in your stare.
It's your patient understanding,
that makes me always want you near.
There's a calmness in your hug,
and a peace that echo's your voice.
There's singing in your laughter,
that makes my heart rejoice.
There are moments when I wonder,
why destiny chose you for me.
At times I feel it's so I can learn,
to be the person I'm supposed to be.
I can't explain the things I see…
what I know and sense and feel.
But I can explain what's in my heart…
it's a love that's pure and real.
Treasure's are meant to be found,
by the lucky ones picked by fate.
I must be one of the luckiest around,
to have deserved you for my mate.
Together as a team we're invincible.
I just wish I could make you see.
That love is the answer for true happiness…
True happiness is…you loving me.
To E.M. My one and only...I Love You
Copyright © 2004 Shelly Price
All Rights Reserved
Snow began to fall at ten in the evening
fine cold adamantine snow.
On Atlantic I drove slowly, the streets being slippery,
looking for a lady
when I spotted Johnnie Mai
so pulled up next to her and she hopped into the car
and we drove to my apartment
where she quickly stripped
then made hot chocolate.
“This is a nice place, Bernstein,
sometimes I stay with Dempsey
he’s forty and loves me
but not my baby.”
“Mary with your mother? ” I asked.
Johnnie Mai sipped her hot chocolate slowly
in silence
eyes closed drifting into that private world
where a soul’s history tumbled forever alone
when suddenly she said, “Without
my mama I’d be dead,
also Mary.” Eyes open staring at me
then: “I guess we should do it.”
“That would be nice.”
We walked to the bed
the presence of her youthful
and powerful body affected me deeply:
My turn now to drift
as her gracious passion warped warmth
into me, so tender, almost true.
“Now me cause I’m still a woman
even though I take money.”
Later she asked, “Can I stay? ”
“OK, ” I said.
Then in the tinkling of an eye
she was asleep and I slid out of bed
walked to the window raised the blinds
to see in the distance Downstate Medical Center
shimmering in the descending crystals
where at this very moment most certainly
death shaped a soul into a snowflake.
I returned to Johnnie Mai her body still afire
and pressed close
a profound silence in the dark room
and I did nothing to disturb it.
John had
Great Big
Waterproof
Boots on;
John had a
Great Big
Waterproof
Hat;
John had a
Great Big
Waterproof
Mackintosh --
And that
(Said John)
Is
That.
Happiness to gain
Happiness to win
Will happiness be in vain
if it falls like rain?
Will it drain
or can we sustain?
Miami South Beach, Florida- US
March 25th,2006
Happiness is an experession
that is shown by love and compretion
a wonderfull feeling that never ends
or a feeling of freedom that sees use atlast
Happeniss is a wonderfull thing
so lets feel it lets all feel it
Lets prove to god we'r his creations
Happeniss is the key to show our apretiation
so hold the hand of the one around you
seem happy look happy and be happy
and I promise you happeniss shall see you atlast!
The great stone Hall is silent
that is now millennia old.
Through the western windows
shines a glorious sun.
It floods the walls and floors,
the tables, chairs and doors,
panelling, pictures, artefacts
and illumines every one
until the wraiths that gather
cry out in their joy,
'Everything is gold!
Whatever is, is gold! '
A majestic cloud
emerges from the southern sea,
slides across the western sky
blotting out the sun.
Light through those western windows
pales to a thin grey day.
It dims the walls and floors,
the tables, chairs and doors,
panelling, pictures, artefacts
pales every one
until the wraiths in the shadows
cry out in dismay,
'Gone is gold, the gold is gone!
All joy has passed away! '
Happiness is when you have very few troubles and worries,
It's when you have no reason to say to someone you're 'Sorry'.
Happiness is when you have someone to love,
It's when you can have a full-fledged conversation with the God above.
Happiness is when it's a rainy day, in your eyes the flowers blossom and the sun gleams,
It's when you're almost convinced you're in a dream.
Happiness is a feeling that comes from within,
Its a fast flowing, merry and jumpy sort of rhythm.
When there's no happiness, take a second and shut your eyes,
Just imagine if there was some, what it would be like.
Imagine you're in a bright colourful garden, imagine you're in heaven,
Within  a few seconds you'll be on top of cloud seven.
I asked the professors who teach the meaning of life to tell
me what is happiness.
And I went to famous executives who boss the work of
thousands of men.
They all shook their heads and gave me a smile as though
I was trying to fool with them
And then one Sunday afternoon I wandered out along
the Desplaines river
And I saw a crowd of Hungarians under the trees with
their women and children and a keg of beer and an
accordion.
Happiness is elusive like the wind
Coming and going like migrating birds
And sound of echoing peals of church bells.
I would keep love safe and strong
Held fast within my heart
Never lost to furies of a purple storm.
Once, I was happy and royal with my lover
Not knowing it was supreme
And through folly have lost all to loneliness.
happiness  has  no  shore
cannot  touch, can never  reach
could only feel  and  long  for
has  no  colour  or smell
mood  does or  undoes  it
Happiness in usually free,
for both you and me.
But what I see is something else,
big box big fee.
Happiness should be free,
but for many it is not.
Happiness cost some their life and home,
and the dog his bone.
Happiness can be free,
with just a little little effort.
Smile, give or embrace,
or just show your support.
Happiness is without cost,
I am sure we are not lost.
We are all in the same boat,
just wish we could stay afloat.
Happiness perhaps once had features
Of a single, compact whole,
But countless are the craving creatures
Praying God some bliss to dole.
He therefore must have sadly shattered
Happiness into many a bit
And had the pieces widely scattered
To give all eyes a glimpse of it.
So, those who wish to own a share
Should not think it strain or stress
To search around, with utmost care,
Some dazzling fragments to possess.
A particle here, a particle there,
To your happy lot may fall;
Not any time, not anywhere,
can you ever find them all.
However long, however far-
Spreading your quest may be,
Too many are, too tiny are
The splinters all for you to see.
In common can you best enjoy
Whatever happiness comes your way.
With others if you share your joy,
It well may stage a longer stay.
Give your neighbour just a half
And see your pleasure growig double:
Make your neighbour smile or laugh;
You yourself with glee will bubble.
I have finally escaped,
to a majestic place,
where i feel at home,
no cobwebs on the phone,
my happiness is burning like a never ending flame,
my soul is free and i feel so alive,
and there is no-one here to tell me,
no-one to dictate,
no-one to irritate,
to  play me around,
I'm so free,
and I'm finally...
happy
Like a baby borne, sun rises up everyday
With the same spirit, strength
Same light being surrounded
By dew it only gives happiness
People today have forgotten
To realize, true essence
Of this talking nature,
Only speaks the truth!
Says it louder
But we, going away
Ignore it, putting it to an end
To the signal that’s yelling
Happiness is within
Find it inside, not anywhere
In nature’s lap
Nowhere else
Chirping birds, crocking frogs
Newly born day
And its aroma
All is for free
Just need is it to get it
Get it on time
It is omnipresent
Happiness is all over
You cannot buy your happiness,
'Cause happiness is free.
Don't you know, or can't you guess,
It's there for you and me.
And what you do with what you've got,
Can change the way you feel.
Just do your best and smile a lot,
You'll keep an even keel.
'Cause happiness is made for YOU,
Just take a bite and see
That happiness is what you do
With something that is free.
What is happiness without any pain?
What is happiness without any gain?
Happiness is contentment.
Happiness may also be a wonderful achievement.
Happiness can be defined as satisfaction
Which we get after doing a noble action.
Happiness can be achieved by doing selfless deeds.
By this we can sow the 'Humanity seeds'
Love one another as I have loved you,
Follow this golden principle and you will find,
Happiness awaiting you with arms
open and welcoming you.
To hear your smiles
To feel your joy
Your warm hearted laughter
spilling across my shoulder
Tender hands creating soft sighs
Then turning to see the light of the sky
as it bends to touch your eyes
Knowing you is a special happiness
A small child's hugging arm at my hip
The glistening shine on its plump lower lip,
quickly moistened after a delectable treat
Then the blush of color on the full
rounded cheek
This is a moment of happiness
A quiet night of deep restful sleep.
The wake to the languid, tingling, feeling, of reach
for arms that continue to keep on running to encircle one another
Yet open wide to welcome each others feats
This is the ultimate happiness
Stuff may happen that will get you down
Don't worry about it happiness will come around
Through the dark light will come
Someones always waiting for your love
In the thick and in thin
Someone's always waiting within
Your heart may shrink your heart will grow
All that i want you to know
Is that I LOVE YOU
Candles of faith dazzling
through the nights
Fumes of aroma awake
all existing senses
Seasonal melodies
germinate divine feelings
Heavenly stars remind us
of wishful thinking
Flowery thoughts disperse
essences of hope
Cherishing life throughout
joyous times
Showers of miracles extinguish
burning fires
Patience brings
a rosy hue to life
Cascades of tears have
eventually ceased
Flames of pain have entirely
disappeared
Darkness of sorrow has
completely vanished
Candles of happiness
are eternally lit
Copyright(c)  Hemakumar Nanayakkara
Who does not like
Red of dawn, bed of sky
Spring of sun, strings of rain
Twinkling night, lulling sleep..?
Who does not like
Pile of flowers, smile of hills
Vale of woods, scales of serene
Sail, rail, so so trial..?
Who does not like
Babes and pets, cuisine and convene
Passion for fashion, fantasy-fascination
Style, mode, flair..?
Who does not like
Wealth and health, dwelling and long living
Kith and kin, friends and folks
Family, phratry, pedigree..?
Who does not like
Felicity, beatitude, spirit and service
Loving infirm, disabled, abandoned and complacency
I've never trusted happiness.
We've never quite been friends.
And everytime that my heart breaks,
It never really mends.
I wrote these words so long ago
And yet they still hold true.
This heart can hold no happiness.
The love just falls right through.
There's just no accounting for happiness,
or the way it turns up like a prodigal
who comes back to the dust at your feet
having squandered a fortune far away.
And how can you not forgive?
You make a feast in honor of what
was lost, and take from its place the finest
garment, which you saved for an occasion
you could not imagine, and you weep night and day
to know that you were not abandoned,
that happiness saved its most extreme form
for you alone.
No, happiness is the uncle you never
knew about, who flies a single-engine plane
onto the grassy landing strip, hitchhikes
into town, and inquires at every door
until he finds you asleep midafternoon
as you so often are during the unmerciful
hours of your despair.
It comes to the monk in his cell.
It comes to the woman sweeping the street
with a birch broom, to the child
whose mother has passed out from drink.
It comes to the lover, to the dog chewing
a sock, to the pusher, to the basket maker,
and to the clerk stacking cans of carrots
in the night.
It even comes to the boulder
in the perpetual shade of pine barrens,
to rain falling on the open sea,
to the wineglass, weary of holding wine.
Happiness,
when people ask me where I find happiness,
I don't have an answer,
when they inquire what my happiest memories are,
I just shake my head,
I can't say I have a happiest memory,
It's not because all my memories are painful,
or unmemorable,
no,
It's because I search for happiness in tommorow,
In the wonder of a new dawn,
In the excitement of the growing light,
There's always something better,
so why wallow in what has been,
when you can bask in what is to come,
I have no idea what tommorow will bring,
But one things for sure,
I can always hope for a brighter future,
and never ending happiness.
Happiness eludes me.
I chase after it in firsts, highs, greats, excellents.
Puff…it vanishes. It is fractions
Of seconds, tiny, invisible, gone.
I find it in compliments, smiles, laughs;
There it goes again.
I find it in love, the fractions
Are endless, it seems, repeated
So often that I think I have found it. For good.
No. It escapes again.
Every day I am gathering fractions,
Words, smiles, laughs, compliments,
Firsts, highs, greats, excellents,
Fractions, all fractions, they become smaller
And smaller, and I am left stranded.
Brave new world, show me your face,
Show me a new me.
Without the greats, the highs, the firsts,
Show me happiness.
Happiness in the dictionary pages
ricochets between
hap and hapless,
good luck and bad
Fortuna, Joy, Felicity
Aptness and Prosperity-
all aligned.
Happiness it seems
Has nothing to do with fair and unfair.
right and wrong
it is hit or miss
luck and unlucky-
vagaries.
Indigestible this.
My grandmother smiles:
“now there child” she used to say
“ok to be born rich
better to be born lucky.”
But, in America we are only guaranteed
happiness's Pursuit and it's Uncertainty.
Accidents of life
rule my chances at felicity?
What now to guide my dreams?
Fortuna's fates gamble
with my dusty dry uncertainties;
hoisted up or down the landscape-
wrangled Hope on a card game table?
Life's branding is: 'no guarantees.'
How many lives
random touched
careen direction-less?
Sad.
Wish I hadn't read the dictionary
but, again,
no such luck.
Hard Truth.
A man and a woman lie on a white bed.
It is morning. I think
Soon they will waken.
On the bedside table is a vase
of lilies; sunlight
pools in their throats.
I watch him turn to her
as though to speak her name
but silently, deep in her mouth--
At the window ledge,
once, twice,
a bird calls.
And then she stirs; her body
fills with his breath.
I open my eyes; you are watching me.
Almost over this room
the sun is gliding.
Look at your face, you say,
holding your own close to me
to make a mirror.
How calm you are. And the burning wheel
passes gently over us.
happiness is what i seek
happiness makes me weak.
plant the seed so it can grow
and in time it will show
the fruits of your labor
it is something that you can savor.
happiness can be found-if you turn and look around
happiness can be seen in your face.!
and it could spread throughout the land.
all it needs is'a helpng hand'.
Happiness is that which everyone longs
but so few of us actually get
Happiness is that which rights all wrongs
and leaves us without regret
Why then does happiness torture us so
when all we want is to feel
what happiness does in the lowest of low
when everything just seems too real
Happiness comes to so many of you
you who think it will always be there
Happiness leaves you without the clue
that living without is a nightmare
If happiness could be passed on
would you then give it to me
Will you then cry when it is gone
and realise what it is to feel lonely
(May,2007)
I am no Christ, Buddha or Gandhi
Or a wandering fakir or sanyasi.
I am an ordinary human being,
If someone slaps me
I cannot turn the other cheek.
I don't think it makes me weak.
I find it difficult to walk
On the eight fold path.
I have no lofty mission
To free mankind of suffering.
If I can make one person smile,
It makes me feel satisfied.
For I can not spread happiness and cheer,
If I am miserable and full of fear.
I cannot be totally selfless,
And efface my identity.
I owe it to myself to love me,
I don’t care if others feel
I am selfish.
Happiness is not something
You can achieve
Merely for the asking.
With experience you will find
It is a state of mind,
You attain when you make peace
With what is.
Once the awareness comes,
You are no longer feverish and
Others naturally feel comfort
In your company.
happiness is always an inside job
It's not so much the world outside
that make us sigh or smile.
It's more the thoughts within our head
that make life seem worthwhile.
Thoughts of special people
that we have met along the way
and memories of the happy times we've shared
from day to day.
I often wonder on a day like this
If you've ever guessed.
How many times the thought of you
has brought me happiness.
Money is not the happiness.
Happiness can't sell or buy.
My happiness is my friends,
My lover and my family.
My happiness is charities,
It is supported the people
Who cared about me?
It is also to help my mom
Recover her illness.
My happiness is my friends
At Poet's workshop
That fills up full time to
read and review poems.
My happiness is to plant
the flowers
and to spent time
for my love's ones.
It is also my love
for my great country
That gives me a freedom.
To think of the happiness,
An ordinary life and an inspiration.
Happiness is th smile that appears when your love walks through the door
It's the fact that everyday you love her even more
Happiness is smiling when nothing goes your way
Happiness is family when you've had a tired day
Where do you find happiness do you look up or down?
You find it in the mirror at the absence of a frown
Happiness can be described in so many different ways
So let's just hope when it finally comes it will never go away
Being your self
Even when it's not neccesairy, when it's not
required.
Even when the world's not
perfect and the sky has
it's clouds.
Just walking there
Just being
yourself
Just closing your eyes, smiling.
Just walking there,
existing,
breathing
Happiness.
It's a beautiful day not a cloud in sight,
and all I see is the sun shinning bright,
and feeling it’s warmth.
I am so happy to see the flowers
and trees are starting to bloom,
and gloom of the cold winter is almost over.
My happiness is to think of how much I love you.
More of my happiness is what you've brought to my life
and being your wife.
I want to Thank-you!
For meaning of my happiness
Happiness, oh happiness,
waiting to burst forth from me,
happiness.
To live in such splendour and
bathe in the milky sunlight,
I wish such a happiness,
existed for me.
To live in a world of anger,
trapped inside a bird's cage.
Why won't this happiness be mine?
Hatred fills my heart,
for this world full of anger,
Why can't this happiness be mine?
happiness
a feeling I never thought I’d find
a feeling I didn't believe in
a feeling I now have
a feeling I never want to lose
happiness
a feeling that is so strong
a feeling that can cure all
a feeling that is me
a feeling that made the new me
happiness
Sadness have strikes me
I fought harder and harder
To get the happiness back
I weeps frequently
I smiles frequently
Happiness is what I want in return
Having him support me
Gave me a happiness
Sadness have strikes me
I fought harder and harder
To get happiness back
I wore masks thousand times
I pretend and it hurt
Having him to take off my mask
To reveal the truth out of me
Gave me a happiness
Sadness have strikes me
I fought harder and harder
To get the happiness back
My heart is shattered
I grabbed a broom to gather it together
I cries
Having him glue my heart all together
Brought me into happiness once again.
Happiness is silent, or speaks equivocally for friends,
Grief is explicit and her song never ends,
Happiness is like England, and will not state a case,
Grief, like Guilt, rushes in and talks apace.
I never had this kind of amount before
Twenty hundred dollars of salary
My first job at the department store
After completed my studies at Baltimore
I am so happy to spend my money
With my family and more
With all my pals and a girl named Mandy
Celebration of joy before I walk out of the door
To further my studies in the Varsity
Everybody were so happy for me
Seeing me happy
One afternoon, I received a call from Mommy
Telling me I’ve been offered Psychology
At Michigan State University
I was so happy
My dreams would become a reality
Rockefeller is working in New York City
Upper Manhattan is the place of duty
Residing in Hoboken Avenue in New Jersey
Made him crossing the Hudson Bay daily
One day, while refueling his gas at Holland Tunnel
He met a woman named McConnell
Music from the station was playing a love song from the Beetles
She was smiling at him and hope that smiles could be eternal
Guess what?
That meeting was actually ending in a marriage
They’ve succeeded in crossing the bridge
The bridge of love and serenity
They were living happily
Form New Jersey to New York City
Is the distance to be
George Bush was feeling so happy
To be back in the White House eventually
The crucial votes in Florida
Had distant him from Al Gore and his brouhaha
It was a history
Was he really happy
Deep inside only he knows the story
As well as the first lady
What's happiness really?
A smile or a laugh,
A simple gesture of emotion.
A simple art of love and devotion.
An act of content and appreciation,
Or just a facial feature of contrast to one's hidden veil.
Ever again to breathe pure happiness,
So happy that we gave away our toy?
We smiled at nothings, needing no caress?
Have we not laughed too often since with Joy?
Have we not stolen too strange and sorrowful wrongs
For her hands' pardoning? The sun may cleanse,
And time, and starlight. Life will sing great songs,
And gods will show us pleasures more than men's.
Yet heaven looks smaller than the old doll's-home,
No nestling place is left in bluebell bloom,
And the wide arms of trees have lost their scope.
The former happiness is unreturning:
Boys' griefs are not so grievous as our yearning,
Boys have no sadness sadder than our hope.
Happiness
Is a clean bill of health from the doctor,
And the kids shouldn't move back home for
more than a year,
And not being audited, overdrawn, in Wilkes-Barre,
in a lawsuit or in traction.
Happiness
Is falling asleep without Valium,
And having two breasts to put in my brassiere,
And not (yet) needing to get my blood pressure lowered,
my eyelids raised or a second opinion.
And on Saturday nights
When my husband and I have rented
Something with Fred Astaire for the VCR,
And we're sitting around in our robes discussing,
The state of the world, back exercises, our Keoghs,
And whether to fix the transmission or buy a new car,
And we're eating a pint of rum-raisin ice cream
on the grounds that
Tomorrow we're starting a diet of fish, fruit and grain,
And my dad's in Miami dating a very nice widow,
And no one we love is in serious trouble or pain,
And our bringing-up-baby days are far behind us,
But our senior-citizen days have not begun,
It's not what I called happiness
When I was twenty-one,
But it's turning out to be
What happiness is.
a wonderful emotion
a thing everyone needs to find
a thing I never felt until now
something I will fight not to lose
something worth it all
worth the
pain
stress
depression
the struggle
it is worth the fight
and I will keep fighting to keep it
Should I wait for you to fall in love with me
Or should I just forget about it and let it be
I don't want to wait for heartbreak
Because you and I both know this is something I can't take
I know that you are in love with someone else
And I don't want to be in a relationship all by myself
I want to understand your decision about us
So don't be in a relationship that you can't trust
You will always have a place in my heart
A special designed place from the start
Maybe one day we can connect
That's if our love don't reject
I feel beautiful and I hope you do too
So in the future one of us will have to say I love you
Now is not the time
So be like me and change your mind
I hope that you find happiness too
But it's a choice up to you
It was either heartbreak or happiness
And happiness was something that I didn't want to miss
IN MY OLD AGE A GREAT HAPPINESS
In my Old Age
A great Happiness
Comes over me.
Why?
I cannot exactly say
I walk I sing
Music and Poetry in me.
The Spring
The Light the Flowers
Some Great Peace
Of all the years I have been
My children
My step-grandchildren
So much I love
Eretz Yisrael.
How happy the light
Of this green day
All the while
Forgetting
The fears of what might be
The uncertainy of what is
The pains of what will be-
A great Happiness
A great Happiness
Thank G-d I have here now still
Thank God for so much goodness in my life.
Let's go find that great blue yonder,
Far away from noise and rush,
A place where one can sit and ponder,
Silently, in a cocoon of hush.
With solitude, to rest one's senses,
Some time to grasp what life's about,
To knock down all those rigid fences,
And let your wildest thoughts fly out.
Allow for all your hopes to wander,
Into dreams that calm the mind,
And use the time in that great blue yonder,
Your innermost happiness to find.
©   Ernestine Northover
If a wise man can be happy,
then happiness must be possible.
If a simple man can be happy,
then happiness is possible.
If a happy man can be wise,
then wisdom is possible.
If a wise man can be simple,
then happiness is possible.
How light the clouds,
how blue the sky, today!
I don’t give two shits anymore
all I want to do is die
that is all I wish for at night
is to die
no one would really care
I have no lover
not a friend to call
no one to address my suicide letter
I’m just sick of always felling nervous
feeling depressed
crying
I wonder would I ever be happy?
would I ever have a friend?
should I hope it will get better
the truth is
it won't
it never does
and you know what
I don't really care
because no happiness is worth this much pain
all the pain of getting there
then again how would I know I’ve never felt happiness
Provoked Thoughts
i find myself sitting
affront this velvet curtain
living an on-going lie
finding no thoughts of good
my shattered heart lost and empty
clinging to impossible dreams
a dreadful thought
my mind's eye sewn shut
with the thread of sorrow
spun from lost hope
not wanting to be found
life unfolding
behind the velvet curtain
lies forgiven
goodness redeemed
hearts unbroken
finding long-lost dreams
in a wishful thought
minds eyes open
to lost hope
now found
My life's greatest happiness is to be convinced my love to you
I am grateful to you for making me happy through out my life
I have never known love until I met you and your love touched
my heart and brought so much happiness in me
Today, you made me to see everything in a new life and you
want me to know how those happiness could make me happy
I found my happiness is to love you and to be loved from you
Sometime, I miss you so much and your absence is very painful
But when I carry your heart within me then my happiness is shining
When I am sad then your sweet words brings me happiness
and my soul get enough strength when it join your heart
When my heart wants to know the meaning of ' love'
then your love is making me to believe the truth of love
Without you there is no happiness in my life and with you
my life is full of hopes and my dream will come true
When you hold me in your arms then my heart
never want to let me go because your happiness is
my happiness. I love you so much my love.
Happiness
Can only be found
If you search for it
Like a vicious blood hound
Happiness
Is just like love
Just to get it
You will push and shove
Happiness
Is just a door
You open it up
And you just want more
Happiness
Grows like trees
It gets really big
But dies in a breeze
Happiness
Is what I could never find
So I went to the dark
To sit and hide
A very frothy, cup of coffee,
My sweetheart's kiss, which is sheer bliss,
Some time for me, plus a pot of tea,
Reflexology for the feet, now that's a treat,
His hand in mine, which is divine,
Being together, whatever the weather,
A trip to town, to buy a new gown,
That welcomed smile, when I've walked a mile,
One friendship rare, that we both can share,
My wedding ring, this makes my heart sing,
A chocolate bar, when I feel under par,
A new found pet, that I have just met,
The grandchild's grin, when I come in,
My daughter's pride, when I'm by her side,
My husband's face, which I could never replace.
©   Ernestine Northover
I walk in the rain,
As I think about you,
Tears fall down,
As I remember what you said,
Love is a way of life,
Love is a way of heart,
Love is a part of you and me,
It’s a part of everyone,
I walk around,
Thinking of you,
As my heart is breaking,
And bleeding from the lies you told,
The blood is dripping,
Down my clothes,
It turned my shirt from red to black,
I remember what you said,
As your screaming and yelling at me,
I never really loved you,
I really only used you,
I never wanted you,
I really only HATE you!
I slice my wrist I wanted it to end,
The blood drips on the ground,
Rain starts to fall,
The ground around me turns red.
where i lost my happiness?
in the lighted corner of past,
this dark of present,
reminds me,
where i lost my happiness?
where i lost my family?
today on with thousands of tears
reminds me of those funny loving moments of past,
smiles, joy, happiness encircled with
my heart sang the song of delight.
my present a dark corner of life,
light me a candle light a flame of happiness,
where i lost my happiness?
where i lost my family?
the family past was not so suffery,
the family today cries for everything,
has everything around still sits to cry,
nothing known of children just busy on own.
i lost my family, i gained a dark corner,
i lost my happiness, or did i ever have them with me? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
an ode to happiness
happiness is one of the many emotions
maybe the greatest off all
it can make you feel all jumpy inside
a first kiss, first love
its all to do with happiness.
but yet happiness never gets thanked
for every thing it has done for us
so im saying thank you for bringing me steven, amy, fayeness, india and everyone else
that means something to me
thank you happiness
Honey, wanna fly
Take a walk upon the steel rails – slide
Skidding, three-sixties the world turns below
Into fear.  Wanna take a dive
Into Heaven or Hell?  She sees her mother’s
Pictures of that sweet baby girl that
She recognizes much to well.  Decides.
It’s alright.  Someone cares.
She turns to leave,
But trips.
Honey, wanna drive
Into a brick back alley wall
Just after she scores and
Takes control.  Woman your
Nose bleeds every time you
Contemplate love.  She worries
About kissing the arms of
The world good-bye.  Got to make
Things better.
Honey, wanna run in the night
Broken bikes and running thoughts
Woman goes insane upon misspelling
Her new last name.  Woman needs
To listen to the good ole rock-n-roll.
Sometimes I ain’t strong enough she
Sometimes knows, but never
Let’s me know what dark
Things lay covered in her
Mind’s shadows.
Honey, wanna cry
Feel a fool at a busted garden gate.
It’s no secreat that dandelions die
And friends always need your help.
Why?  Why do we shine like comets
Across the night sky – only to die.  Wanna
Drink a gallon of pesticide and write
Poetry about the experience
“It’ll be alright, ” momma always said, “It’ll be alright.”
Honey wanna skip rocks
Across the sea when the waves ain’t
High.  Woman falls ripping
Her dress as the universe explodes.
She knows there’s allot of things
That need changed about her life.
Wanna change her hair – paint it black
Cut it short like a boy’s,
But no one would notice.  She thinks twice.
Honey, wanna spit
In every man’s eye.
Later decides
It’s better to lie
And just fake
Orgasms and Happiness.
Eliminating passion is not happiness.
Suppressing passion is not happiness.
Spending passion only is happiness.
Happiness is nothing but the sprouts of happiness.
18.08.2008
Money owned by rich men
Buys temples to store their gold
Though these temples money they defend
Do they within their wall, happiness hold
(date written unknown)
One grand boulevard with trees
with one grand cafe in sun
with strong black coffee in very small cups.
One not necessarily very beautiful
man or woman who loves you.
One fine day.
Submitted by Britton
No-one knew what subsequently became of her
after he went so dramatically, and after all those goings-on.
He got all the headlines.
The police didn't even bother
to take her in for questioning.
There was talk of riots,
they needed every spare man.
But the story never quite went away.
You know how it is with journalists -
we file it away for a rainy day,
then it sticks in our mind
for when we retire and write a best-seller, I wish...
I doubt we'll ever know the truth of it;
but every now and then
some nutter with a convincing sighting
makes a free gift to journalists
with no personal responsibility for us either.
France, Spain, Italy, gipsy communities -
you name it, they know her
except she was never there that day.
The story among her friends is
that she went on a long Mediterranean cruise
with two other ladies.
Yet there's no account of their returning
and there are stories that they all separated
and took up new careers in foreign places
where they acquired new names, locally
so the trail's gone cold.
But stories like his, and hers,
and whether they - well, you know -
never quite go away
and the part she played
though brief, sure was dramatic, so
it's made her a role model for those women -
and there have been many over the years -
whose lives have taken a turn for the worse
(no man can know what it's like
for a woman to hav e to sell herself)
and who see in her story
a hope of life's big U-turn
and all that we really hope for.
God knows we all need one.
Could be a Lloyd-Webber musical,
come to think of it.
After all, she was there
at one of the world's big events
- that most of the media
strangely missed...
Maddalena - it's a beautiful name
in Italian.
And then there's that delicate cake
that Proust dipped in his tea.
There's a place in Italy
where they take her story very seriously,
because some local writer
turned it into a classic of hope for the socially rejected;
a rather 19th century theme.
The critics panned it;  but does it matter
whether it's truth or fiction,
if it goes so deep, that it's true in a different sort of way?
It's called 'Maddalena of the Heavenly Happiness';
it sounds better in  Italian.
no, it never got translated into English -
it's rather
Catholic
if you know what I mean.
Though it actually took place
in the Near East
or whatever it was called then.
In Lusher park I met a young woman in her early twenties maybe
The sun was in her golden hair she said good day to me
A happy smile lit up her face and warmth in her friendly hi
And all around the sunlit park she spread her gift of joy.
A woman happy in herself and of care she did seem free
The brighter and happier side of life her type can only see
A woman with a cheery smile and warmth in her hello
She will spread her gift of happiness where ever she will go.
The lories and rosellas chirped on the trees and white backed magpie sung
And there was warmth in the breeze and the day was fresh and young
As she walked on down the pathway the one with the inner glow
And the brightness that is in her soul in her body language show.
I was feeling in a neutral mood not happy or not sad
Not feeling sorry for myself or angry with the World my life is not so bad
Till a young woman with a cheerful smile greeted me with a good day
And she spread her gift of happiness as she walked upon her way.
Buying a car today would be so nice!
Having a car thats old is quite alright;
Getting a car tomorrow would be wise!
Changing a car each day would not be right.
Having something thats old is good enough;
Having something today seems still better;
Having something tomorrow is quite tough;
Yet, satisfaction's prime that must matter.
Each thing in time has its advantages;
Postponement's not something you always do;
One shouldn't decide slowly or take ages;
All things have demerits and beauty too!
Yet, values old have stood the test of time!
And modern things don't make life more sublime!
If Success was Happiness
Then achievers would be glad
But look around and you will find
That many of them are sad
Of course, Achievement gives joy
And excitement, oh boy!
But when our need becomes our greed
To misery, this will lead
The whole world is chasing Success
Everyone wants achievement
Sometimes we win, sometimes we lose
There is no Contentment
Why do people want to succeed?
Why is everyone in a race?
The Truth is that we want to win
So that there is a smile on our face
But though we win, we are not glad
We have money, why are we sad?
Happiness is not money, the sages said
It's sleeping soundly when you are in bed
We hear of suicides in the homes of the rich
If they were Happy, then why this glitch?
Although they are achievers, this fact we know
They are not Happy, their face has no glow
If successful, but unhappy, what is the use?
Winning or smiling, what would you choose?
The purpose of Success is for us to be glad
What is the use of winning, if it makes us sad?
Happiness is something different, we learn
Not just money that we earn and burn
Happiness is built on a foundation of peace
Then we are blissful like waves in the seas
Look around at the people who are glad
They live in the moment, they are never sad
They don't swing from the future to the past
They are the ones whose Happiness lasts
Happiness has no price tag, know this my friend
It's a state of mind where nothing can offend
It's being able to smile, and able to laugh
Not just trying to raise our Success graph
We can't measure joy in dollar and pound
Happy is he who peace has found
Though we may fly the world around
We may be miserable on the ground
Success is not Happiness, this Truth we must know
We may have everything, what's the use of this show?
The truly successful one is he
Who lives with smile, laughter, and glee
If one is Happy, then one has achieved all
One doesn't have to be rich and in fame be tall
One can have little, but if content is he
Then he can live joyously
Achievement gives Happiness, this fact we know
But with Fulfilment and Contentment, does Happiness grow
One who is Happy, doesn't need to win
He has Peace and Joy without committing sin
Joy doesn't need a foundation of cash
One doesn't have to be rich, to enjoy life's bash
Happiness is a simple state of the mind
It comes from being loving, it comes from being Kind
Happiness is Success. It is achieving life's goal
It is being Happy in the heart, Peaceful in the Soul
True Happiness is eternal, not just a moment of joy
It last's forever, it can't be destroyed
Success is a journey of valleys and peaks
Life is a see-saw, there arelaughs and squeaks
Success, unlike Happiness, doesn't last for long
But the truly Happy ones always sing a Happy song
So, Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success
You may be an achiever, whose heart is not at rest
But though not successful, if Happy you are
Then you are an achiever, you are the very best
787
Such is the Force of Happiness—
The Least—can lift a Ton
Assisted by its stimulus—
Who Misery—sustain—
No Sinew can afford—
The Cargo of Themselves—
Too infinite for Consciousness'
Slow capabilities.
I want you to know, i never felt this way before,
you will see that this will be a perfect harmony.
to have you near me by my side, I swear I'll make you mine.
and I felt alright when you kissing me goodnight.
and I will always standing by your side.
I may say yes to  loneliness
I might dropp some tears, but this tears turn into happiness.
I saw you passing by, I told you why the love
I cant deny, only that we are to far away.
every night every day, but if you will
open your heart and love me....
I swear I'll never make you cry.
I swear to dropp your tears
and turn this tears of happiness.
There's a happiness, a joy
in one soul, that's been
buried alive in everyone
and forgotten.
It isn't your barroom joke
or tender, intimate humor
or affections of friendliness
or big, bright pun.
They're the surviving survivors
of what happened when happiness
was buried alive, when
it no longer looked out
of today's eyes, and doesn't
even manifest when one
of us dies, we just walk away
from everything, alone
with what's left of us,
going on being human beings
without being human,
without that happiness.
the irony of this pursuit is this:
the more you pursue it
the more it escapes
away from your grasp
you think your hands
finally catch
happiness, and you
hold on to it
tightly like you
are a bird with claws
like an eagle holding
on to the monkey
then blood drifts
on the holy mountains
the paradox lies
not in the taking of happiness
but in giving it away
and then the magic happens
the mountains dance
the caves open
and the rivers sing
it is clear, when you take it
you simply release it
then you are happy
and the pursuit is nothing
but
in simply the giving
the patience of waiting
like a tree whose fruits
are ripe where children
climb
gather the fruits
and chew and swallow
every sweetness of
the pulp,
the fiber
juice sliding smoothly
inside innocent their throats
Over the rainbow bluebirds scatter,
Nothing's there to really matter.
A shaft of light born of love,
From the womb of life
Pierces the axis of your being
Your home.
No need to climb that mountain,
No need for promised lands,
No need to climb that fence,
The shaft of light has told you,
You're sitting on a golden seat,
See,
Your Eden's.
Lying all around your feet.
Statistics tell.  You can be
independent of them, but
you cannot deny them.
Though white Americans are freed
from many of the hassles and indignities
that affect black Americans, yet,
on average, they are only
very slightly happier.
Men have more power and freedom
than women, yet, on average,
they are not any happier.
(Women experience more depression,
but also more intense joy..)
Though the young have so much more
to look forward to, than the elderly,
yet ratings of life satisfaction rise slightly
up to age sixty-five, and for some, beyond..
People in colder areas of the USA
might expect Californians to be
happier. They are wrong.
Surely people who are more attractive
are happier than the unattractive?
Not so..
If you’re adequately housed,
adequately clothed, adequately fed,
then wealth will surely bring you greater happiness?
The rich are only a very little
happier than the middle classes…
So is this the end of
The American Dream – Joe,
José, Leroy, Yusuf, Gianni, Johan, Boris, Ivan, Ravi?
isn’t there a happy ending, over the border,
over the ocean, over the rainbow?
Yes, there is…
happy people grow rich faster..
(thanks to Jon Haidt for this)
If happiness only lies
In a place we don't exist
And only future days
Are one’s we miss
If satisfaction never comes
And dreams are unattained
Then you sacrificed your happiness
And only you’re to blame
The moment that we’re living
Should be lived with no regret
Don't let reaching for the future
Have you to obsessed
Find happiness
While you have your health
The evidence from pleasing others is
You may not please yourself
Sharing each other’s hopes and dreams.
Caring about what happens to each other.
Respecting each other’s goals and ambitions.
Committing to share everything with each other.
Making decisions together like all good teams do.
Being there for the bad times as well as the good.
Trusting the other to do the right thing in the relationship.
Knowing each other so well that reacting becomes instinctive.
Believing the whole relationship is the sum of two halves together.
Loving each other for person they are, not the person they could be.
The warmth of the sun,
The touch of your hand,
The waves against my feet,
This is true happiness.
My father’s smile,
My mother’s laughter,
My brother’s love,
This is true happiness.
Making you laugh,
Making you smile,
Making you see that there’s more to me,
This is true happiness.
Doing this,
Writing,
Feeling, emoting,
This is true happiness.
Dancing, but not only dancing,
Giving it my whole, my being,
Becoming the dance,
This is true happiness.
Seeing your face when you realize
That I’m always me, with or without you.
Me realizing that I don’t need you.
This is true happiness.
Happiness is knowing,
that you are truly loved,
But that someone special.
Knowing that you are secure,
With the person you are,
Is also happiness.
Happiness is knowing,
that you have learned,
to believe, trust and most of all,
Love yourself, for the person that you are.
Having accomplished all that is needed,
to be a complete person on the inside,
Only then, can we be truly happy.
Being happy with ourselves,
We are ready to accept the happiness,
that awaits us in our lifetime,
And that is the greatest happiness of all.
Cut skin,
Matching Tattoos,
Alluring night,
Tantalizing moon,
Friends were on drugs
Sauntering down
The summer avenues,
Hands clasped tightly
By romantic youths
With sexual aspirations!
We made promises
To each other
Amid the madness
To remain
Tragically in love
And never change,
I wish we would have died
Back then
In our warped happiness.
A babe’s first cry, as she enters the world
Sobs of delight, greet this miracle of life
A child’s happy laugh, running free
Gasps of wonder, on making a discovery
That shy winsome giggle, on a first date
Silent conversations that leap beyond fate
A moan of delight when we soar together
When souls tenderly mingle, that hushed surrender
And that song between heartbeats
When a soulmate is near!
happiness
is bliss
happiness,
is when you get a new puppy
happiness,
is when you get married
happiness,
is when you go on you first date
happiness,
is making your own decisions
happiness,
is graduating
happiness,
is getting you first job
happiness,
is falling in love
happiness
is being proud of who you are
happiness
is bliss
happiness,
is glowing
happiness,
is fun
happiness,
is an amazing feeling
happiness,
is when you smile all day
happiness,
is giving someone a hug just because you can
happiness,
is that light in your eyes
happiness,
is what makes the world go around
happiness,
is bliss
Give and you shall receive
Plant and you shall harvest
Smile and smiles to you be extended
Help and you will be blessed.
It's a simple secret, known
in decades and centuries
in villages and cities
by simple folks and sages.
It's within the festival of lights
in Hanukkah of the Jews,
in Tihar or Diwali of the Hindus,
in Eid of the Muslims and
in Christmas of the Christians.
The secret of giving and sharing
is upheld, valued and celebrated.
Give happiness to others
and receive bountiful
happiness as blessing
you greatly deserve.
_________________
Elizabeth's response to the title challenge of Mobani Biswas
I awakened this morning,
With a happiness attack.
I wasn't sure what it was.
So I laid quietly on my back.
When I fell asleep last night,
I didn't expect to wake up...
Not like that!
And when I opened my eyes,
I was surprised to feel so good.
So the next thing I did,
Was to thank God...
Like I should!
Unexpectedly I received my 'gift',
Delivered from God...
As only God could!
I awakened this morning,
With a happiness attack.
I wasn't sure what it was.
So I laid quietly on my back.
Making sure it was not the nightmare...
Many have become addicted to share.
And I had left staring in disbelief,
That I was not grieving with it!
And leaving it there.
On the other side of my door,
Where it was abandoned...
The day before!
without a care
in the world
save for
care itself
There was me,
my brothers; a total of three,
A step-dad who was my mothers husband to be,
Each one loving each other
As we waited for a sister after being concieved,
Just recently we had bought a camera,
We stocked up on VHS tapes,
So many laughs and so much anger,
When living room boxing went on so late.
I remember a day out
The zoo is where we went
The goat ate my bag instead of the food
And tried to eat my coat through the fence.
Me and my brothers never got along
But what brothers do
We punched and shouted until we'd hurt,
But looked out for each other to,
My eldest was always grounded
coz he was a rebel on the streets,
He'd get his opinion across,
But was grounded by six,
The other was a follower, he'd follow the eldest,
The eldest became annoyed, and once again got grounded.
I tried being like my brothers,
but I never could, The youngest was a baby,
I preferred to be good,
My step dad taught me alot about respect
I listened as I should,
He taught me about love
And how I should grow up
coz life isnt always good
I was close to my mother,
I didnt want to be apart,
she'd tuck me into bed
and push me on the swings in the park
she would tickle my tummy
and buy me new clothes
she would cook something yummy
and keep me warm when it was cold.
When I walked you home that night
The vibe was absolutely right
The sparks were flying left and right
Jesus I was happy
We talked and talked of this and that
Nothing more than vapid chat
I don’t remember what was said
More than words were talking
On and on we went like that
Playing off and bouncing back
So rare a thing to feel like that
You made me happy
Starry eyed and laughing
As we said good night and parted
And I floated helium hearted homeward
God you made me happy
That night when I went to bed
I couldn’t sleep my buzzing head
Was wondering what would happen next
And guess what, I was happy
That was now a month ago
I’ve seen you come I’ve watched you go
I’m wondering what the future holds
And how to make you happy.
I’d shower you with lies and gifts
I’d move the earth if we could live
Together you and me like this
Great God I’m happy.
into the unending work line comes a new beginning
of tolerance of adverse attitude, surfing the taste of
temper and luring smile
timing comes as it waits the gain that deals beyond,
human aspiration, the lasting praise gains no one.
but the soul that leads to the ground of sayonara in
the most astounding halos of goodbye
filled up the nice smile and return the forever respect
of the one who seat in the throne; the table and the
pen recite no one and see's the gratitude and the
work done even the night is gone
understand the boss, and jam what ever floats
in the air; knowing the good in the decision it gives
on your job the best goes flattered in the hand, the
whole things bless with fun
feel good, and save for a day, the fresh comes in
a wonderful awesome morning for you to stay, take
always the boss legacy, and chant the melody that
brings your pleasant moment with whom the
blessing comes in a spectacular happy day
the work is not yet over, always thank that the day
with your Boss will be a great moment to stay and
as you whisper a prayer, let this be the connecting
line of another life to spend with wisdom to live
stop, pose and confirm....... as you say Amen
Oh, that your lovely flesh be there for me
a thousand miles I must, on blood-stained boots
hike through the corpses of man's hate for man
and carry only one, an ever-longing thought.
A bullet on a mission with the sound of scorn
and weaving on its path of wild destruction
flies by me, humming like a goddamn bumblebee
I'm telling blistered feet to be my friends.
What if, I say with hollow trepidation
another man, yet from another land
has claimed the prize before  I stagger home,
it will not leave me and becomes its own obsession.
And then, a nightingale, sits on the knotted branch
of a tall tree that shows the ravages of war,
and sings the sweetest song that Nature could conceive
she sings for me and tells about my distant love.
It is enough to hear the sounds of this fine music
new powers penetrate my worn exhausted bones,
time is suspended altogether like a dream
and on the steps up to her door I weakly stumble
to catch the ambience of this thing called Happy End.
353
A happy lip—breaks sudden—
It doesn't state you how
It contemplated—smiling—
Just consummated—now—
But this one, wears its merriment
So patient—like a pain—
Fresh gilded—to elude the eyes
Unqualified, to scan—
When these graven lines you see,
Traveller, do not pity me;
Though I be among the dead,
Let no mournful word be said.
Children that I leave behind,
And their children, all were kind;
Near to them and to my wife,
I was happy all my life.
My three sons I married right,
And their sons I rocked at night;
Death nor sorrow never brought
Cause for one unhappy thought.
Now, and with no need of tears,
Here they leave me, full of years,--
Leave me to my quiet rest
In the region of the blest.
Most happy letters, fram'd by skilful trade,
With which that happy name was first design'd:
The which three times thrice happy hath me made,
With gifts of body, fortune, and of mind.
The first my being to me gave by kind,
From mother's womb deriv'd by due descent,
The second is my sovereign Queen most kind,
That honour and large richesse to me lent.
The third my love, my life's last ornament,
By whom my spirit out of dust was raised:
To speak her praise and glory excellent,
Of all alive most worthy to be praised.
Ye three Elizabeths for ever live,
That three such graces did unto me give.
He had just celebrated,
with kindred friends and spirits
his seventieth.
The guests now gone
and one could hear
the squeaking of his rocking chair
accompanied by birds,
who, in the tropics, sing at night
as well, it set the stage
for melancholy reminiscence
about the crossroads  he had reached
where spectators just stood,
observing him with friendly faces
and the benevolence of man.
The specialist had said  'you will be fine',
though using neutral words to intimate
that things were in control,
that modern medicine would win
with weapons like FU, his special chemo.
There was a climate that surrounded
and pampered him, as if to say
'because we like you, Jim, you'll be okay.'
And so, there was no need to fret,
to get some order into his affairs.
He looked again at the physician's card,
with  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  in fluorescent letters.
He read the text again, but searched,
in vain for what was old tradition:
Returns, the many happy ones!
It was not there, perhaps an oversight?
A shadow crossed his tired face
when from within a voice sang out,
it told him what he knew to be
the truth, that this would be his very last.
Bricklayer’s like to keep their spirit levels high
Joiner’s and Chippie’s will raise the rafters
They do the things that brings them joy
Things that give them the laughter’s
Their as happy, happy, happy as can be
Nurse’s keep their humour tender
Clown’s like to act the fool
Heating engineer’s like it hot
Ice cream makers keep it cool
Their all happy, happy, happy as can be
I like to be in your arms
Saying I love you’ listening to you saying I love you too
I like to see your smiling eyes
In which my smiling eyes look into
Then I am as happy, happy, happy as can be
You make me so happy, happy, happy as can be
Happiness is me as happy, happy, happy as can be
In love and as happy, happy, happy as can be
In love with you happy forever in love
As happy, happy, happy as can be
Today i met a lonely girl
with a touch of magic
i've been waiting for someone like her
I'm so happy
She let's me know of her love
i give her all of mine
My Angel sent from above
i tell her all the time cause i'm so happy
Now what was once 2 lonely souls
tonight we sleep, arms in arms
i found someone to love and hold
i wonder if she's happy
Love is here, just in time
my dark world has begun to shine
wherever i go, i want her near
cause she's what makes me happy
How long will this love last?
still can't believe she's mine
So attractive with a past so tragic
i'll do anything for her just as long as she's happy
She seems to hold and kiss me less
i feel so cold, her lips are blessed
i hope she never strays from me
she's what keeps me happy
She wants to free, it's in her eyes
Away from me, let her decide
an eclipse is what she sees in mine
cause love has made me happy
Then came the day, i lost my heart
she's gone away, forever we part
I find myself back in the dark
where nobody can be happy
I would hold you in my arms
No other hand in my palms
i thought the love of ours would last
she wants me to be happy
Forget about me
life has been tragic
im'a wait in the rain for you
just to see you happy
I'm stuck in a world where demons grab me
They stab me
...but im'a wait in the rain for you
As long as you're happy
.   Who is the happy Warrior? Who is he
That every man in arms should wish to be?
--It is the generous Spirit, who, when brought
Among the tasks of real life, hath wrought
Upon the plan that pleased his boyish thought:
Whose high endeavours are an inward light
That makes the path before him always bright;
Who, with a natural instinct to discern
What knowledge can perform, is diligent to learn;
Abides by this resolve, and stops not there,
But makes his moral being his prime care;
Who, doomed to go in company with Pain,
And Fear, and Bloodshed, miserable train!
Turns his necessity to glorious gain;
In face of these doth exercise a power
Which is our human nature's highest dower:
Controls them and subdues, transmutes, bereaves
Of their bad influence, and their good receives:
By objects, which might force the soul to abate
Her feeling, rendered more compassionate;
Is placable--because occasions rise
So often that demand such sacrifice;
More skilful in self-knowledge, even more pure,
As tempted more; more able to endure,
As more exposed to suffering and distress;
Thence, also, more alive to tenderness.
--'Tis he whose law is reason; who depends
Upon that law as on the best of friends;
Whence, in a state where men are tempted still
To evil for a guard against worse ill,
And what in quality or act is best
Doth seldom on a right foundation rest,
He labours good on good to fix, and owes
To virtue every triumph that he knows:
--Who, if he rise to station of command,
Rises by open means; and there will stand
On honourable terms, or else retire,
And in himself possess his own desire;
Who comprehends his trust, and to the same
Keeps faithful with a singleness of aim;
And therefore does not stoop, nor lie in wait
For wealth, or honours, or for worldly state;
Whom they must follow; on whose head must fall,
Like showers of manna, if they come at all:
Whose powers shed round him in the common strife,
Or mild concerns of ordinary life,
A constant influence, a peculiar grace;
But who, if he be called upon to face
Some awful moment to which Heaven has joined
Great issues, good or bad for human kind,
Is happy as a Lover; and attired
With sudden brightness, like a Man inspired;
And, through the heat of conflict, keeps the law
In calmness made, and sees what he foresaw;
Or if an unexpected call succeed,
Come when it will, is equal to the need:
--He who, though thus endued as with a sense
And faculty for storm and turbulence,
Is yet a Soul whose master-bias leans
To homefelt pleasures and to gentle scenes;
Sweet images! which, wheresoe'er he be,
Are at his heart; and such fidelity
It is his darling passion to approve;
More brave for this, that he hath much to love:--
'Tis, finally, the Man, who, lifted high,
Conspicuous object in a Nation's eye,
Or left unthought-of in obscurity,--
Who, with a toward or untoward lot,
Prosperous or adverse, to his wish or not--
Plays, in the many games of life, that one
Where what he most doth value must be won:
Whom neither shape or danger can dismay,
Nor thought of tender happiness betray;
Who, not content that former worth stand fast,
Looks forward, persevering to the last,
From well to better, daily self-surpast:
Who, whether praise of him must walk the earth
For ever, and to noble deeds give birth,
Or he must fall, to sleep without his fame,
And leave a dead unprofitable name--
Finds comfort in himself and in his cause;
And, while the mortal mist is gathering, draws
His breath in confidence of Heaven's applause:
This is the happy Warrior; this is he
That every man in arms should wish to be.
Health is the first good lent to men;
A gentle disposition then:
Next, to be rich by no by-ways;
Lastly, with friends t' enjoy our days.
Imagine, folks, he's barely up
and sits there with his coffee cup,
while reminiscing of the past
when time just flew, so very fast.
A sip of Java, then a nod,
it surely was the will of God,
this land where wheat has always grown
transformed,  a country of his own.
He had the guts, the fortitude
that saw some lawyers come unglued.
They said he had no valid reason
and that he was committing treason.
With musical formality
he built his principality.
It is well known that those who rule
attract corruption, like the fool
who speaks of better times to come.
For you it's water, he drinks rum.
Those 'servants' make for us decisions
while acting like all politicians,
we know that,  as they move their lips
they give us tons of clever fibs.
I say those people have a nerve,
they've got it wrong and make US  serve!
Well, I, for one, prefer to be
a common man, yet one who's free.
The world, as is, makes little sense
it lacks the word 'benevolence'.
And, if you think they are insane
you're right, they lost the word 'humane'.
Here, in a place called HRP
a Royal couple serves your tea.
So, when you make your travel plans,
the place where no shenanigans
or phony blokes pursue deception,
you'll get a personal reception.
Then stay a while, there, on the land
and shake the Royal couple's hand.
Look at the treasures, take it in,
the atmosphere, the smiles that win.
Today, throughout the world it rings,
the sound of bells for Queens and Kings.
Our voices, can you hear them call?
A Happy Birthday, from us all!
I take the long walk up the staircase to my secret room.
Today's big news: they found Amelia Earhart's shoe, size 9.
1992: Charlie Christian is bebopping at Minton's in 1941.
Today, the Presidential primaries have failed us once again.
We'll look for our excitement elsewhere, in the last snow
that is falling, in tomorrow's Gospel Concert in Springfield.
It's a good day to be a cat and just sleep.
Or to read the Confessions of Saint Augustine.
Jesus called the sons of Zebedee the Sons of Thunder.
In my secret room, plans are hatched: we'll explore the Smoky Mountains.
Then we'll walk along a beach: Hallelujah!
(A letter was just delivered by Overnight Express--
it contained nothing of importance, I slept through it.)
(I guess I'm trying to be "above the fray.")
The Russians, I know, have developed a language called "Lincos"
designed for communicating with the inhabitants of other worlds.
That's been a waste of time, not even a postcard.
But then again, there are tree-climbing fish, called anabases.
They climb the trees out of stupidity, or so it is said.
Who am I to judge? I want to break out of here.
A bee is not strong in geometry: it cannot tell
a square from a triangle or a circle.
The locker room of my skull is full of panting egrets.
I'm saying that strictly for effect.
In time I will heal, I know this, or I believe this.
The contents and furnishings of my secret room will be labeled
and organized so thoroughly it will be a little frightening.
What I thought was infinite will turn out to be just a couple
of odds and ends, a tiny miscellany, miniature stuff, fragments
of novelties, of no great moment. But it will also be enough,
maybe even more than enough, to suggest an immense ritual and tradition.
And this makes me very happy.
In a snowy little hamlet lived a boy with a short name
he was sent to the one room school in the town.
All the letters and the numbers did at first look much the same
and the boy was often wearing a small frown.
But his mind had been well-nourished and was full of great ideas,
soon the teachers noticed something 'round the lad,
idle thoughts of how things worked and shunning smoke and hazy mirrors
he would often wonder if the world was mad.
Many years have passed and honours fluttered in through troubled skies
but large gaggles of opponents hung around,
thus for decades they were jealous and would tell those factoid lies
and when challenged they would quickly go to ground.
Yet the world does know its master in the field of Human Health
and the families of all as well as 'them'
are aware that he would putter with the science, not the wealth
as he looked at situations from the stem.
I have never in my travels met another noble man
who would fascinate so simply with his mind
and with quiet confidence he would just nod and say 'I can'
with a smile that told the world that he was kind.
Well, last night I had a dream that woke me up at 3 o-five
and the recall was according to B-six
and the gods had told me then that our man would be alive
as the gods had seen his work and how he ticks.
Then a voice came through the clouds, it was God who did the talking
there was lightning and the heavens shook and thundered
I could hear the words so clear, 'yes,  this man will still be walking
on this earth when he gets to be one hundred. '
I know you will reflect
upon your life today.
The happiness can wait
so can the candles
on the cake. They flicker
as if to tell you fibs
of optical illusion
and icing, creamy pink
and sugarsweet.
So, have a piece,
a smaller one should go
onto his China plate
across from you,
where loving eyes observe
aglow, like a contented bull
la vache qui rit, in human form
Eat up, dear Allie, he will do
all dishes of next year for you.
Some years ago
A star was born
A beautiful girl
With a heart so warm
You grew into a woamn
A wonderful sight to see
I still get so excited
When ever you look at me
Another year has quickly passed
But you don't show your age
Its just another verse for you
To write down on a page
The book of life you're writing
Is a continuing story
The pages in your book
I'm sure are filled with glory
As your day approaches
I wanted to send you a cheer
I hope for your next birthday
I can somwhow be near
So, have a Happy Birthday
For you deserve the best
This is not just something
That I say in jest
From my heart I truly mean it
I hope your day is great
I hope my Birthday wish for you
Does not arrive too late
3-27-08/RjH
Every day the whole year through,
I feel grateful you are my father.
Some fathers dont have time for their kids,
But for you I am never a bother.
You always make the effort to listen and share;
You are always there when you are needed.
It warms me to know how much you care,
And with that knowledge my worries are defeated.
Dad, you are truly admired and adored,
And as your daughter, I hope that you know,
These sentiments fill me each day of the year,
And my love for you continues to grow.
Today I wish you much pleasure and joy;
I hope all of your wishes come true.
May each hour and minute be filled with delight,
And your birthday be perfect for you!
Though the timing is rather uncanny,
Happy Birthday, I say, poet Danny.
On another year's crest
it may BE for the best
if you sat on that day on your fanny.
Turning old is a product of fate.
It's a mental/emotional state.
And just think of the kicks
when you're seventy six.
Your'e still growing at age forty-eight.
To: Denis Joe.........
How did I miss your birthday?
You should have let me know!
Cause then I would have thanked you
for the kindness that you show.
You always have a nice note
to leave below a poem.
Your name is always welcomed
in my heart and in my home.
I love the way you give advice
with such a touch of class.
I wish I would have known before
your birthday came to pass.
Your topics of discussion
have become a simple treasure.
Your wisdom and your intellect
is something we can't measure.
I hope you enjoyed your birthday
and I wish you many more.
Get ready for a wonderful year!
You never know what's in store!
A prickly and wise Huckleberry
likes his Scotch so much better than Sherry.
He is still full of tricks
at a young seventy-six
Happy Birthday, my ancient friend Jerry.
As your poems show all of us clearly
you can stray into nomansland nearly,
and the wisdom of age
is on every page.
All your friends (and some foes)  love you dearly.
You could well be a mover and shaker,
but not ever a phoney or faker.
So please blow  out the flames
to please all of the dames
and the overworked candlestickmaker.
The strong-girl of our home!
She did the hardest chores;
And helped mother at work,
And locked the house’s doors.
She was a simple dame;
But received all the blame;
She yearned for love and name;
Life played a cruel game!
She loved to talk her heart,
And learned on own some art;
Unlucky on her part,
She remains right from start.
She is an Aquarian;
Devoted Marian;
She leads a spinster’s life,
Alone, amidst much strife.
May God bless my sister,
On her birthday today!
And grant her will-power
To walk in Heaven’s way.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 2-11-2006
Dedicated to my dear elder sister,
Miss. Noeline Mary Clemencia, CBE.
I thank God for giving me a sweet and loving papa
Today is your 50th birthday that means so much to me
Let fifty candles glow on a cake of delight
That you blew them off to forget the past
Papa, you are special person to me in my life
and nothing will replace my papa in this world
Your loving nature brings me happiness into my heart
and you made me so proud with your lessons
I pray God for you to live many years papa
and my tight hugs and kisses on your cheeks
Happy birthday my ever loving papa
May God bless you papa always
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Happy Birthday to you,
Pure Poetry is a year old today,
All the sixty-one members seem to love you,
Because we keep putting poems on you,
Even the youngt members do too.
Members do find it hard to write poems,
But we do,
So happy birthday to you,
Hope you go on for another year,
So members can still write poems on you.
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
How old are you today?
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
All the girls can stay
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Turn and shake away
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Let's jump around and play
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
You need a holiday
Happy Birthday
Happy Birthday
Wish you well each and everyday
Copyright 2005 Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
Birthdays comes and goes in every year
but few remains with us as golden memories
Its a special day to celebrate with loved ones
Although, the years carry our age away
but every aged year brings happiness into our heart
Life is full of ups and down, weary or teary
but life goes always with smile instead of frown
The candles have been blown off to say good bye to old year
and then the cakes is cut to say welcome to new age
The birthday song sung to forget the world
and the birthday wishes keep pouring to live more
When the birthday gifts are overflowing on the table
and impatient face is glowing to open them.
Dine and wine are served unlimited
Music followed by dance to remember unforgettable day
'Happy Birthday To You' that is last words that we hear
from each and everyone and again the drums are silent
for another year to come.
Happy Birthday from us to you
May this one be the best one yet.
Love and peace to you,
A nice cash flow too.
Kisses, hugs on top of that.  Happy Birthday to you,
And may God bless you,
With good health,
A family giving you their best
And another birthday on top of that.
A limerick dedicated to HRH Prince Leonard, *    for his 79th Birthday.
A VERY  HAPPY  BIRTHDAY, DEAR  PRINCE  LEONARD! ! ! !
There once was a farmer named Leonard,
quite a thinker and very well-mannered.
When they wanted his money
he found this not funny
and quickly became PRINCE  Leonard.
And established a souvereign state,
without fuss or a lengthy debate.
as the world held its breath:
‘would he fight to the death? ’
Or default and accept his fate?
So, it quickly became quite clear
that the Prince did not recognize fear.
Although high were the stakes
he quite had what it takes
and knew that vict’ry was near.
Then they threatened to come out in force,
to destroy this disgrace at its source.
By the end of the season
they would punish his treason
and undo this unlawful divorce.
“You will cease and desist”, they declared,
and in parliament tempers flared.
“You must  lay down your weapon
lest dreadful things happen,
our country is owned, NEVER shared! ”
Yet Prince Leonard had needed no guns,
(a principle taught to his sons) .
‘twas abundantly plain
he had used his brain
to stand up to these modern day Huns.
So the stand-off continued unchanged,
with negotiations arranged.
People asked how one could
imitate Robin Hood,
(there was talk that this man was deranged) .
And the tabloids predicted defeat.
Told the man to return to his wheat.
Or this farmer of dirt
would most surely get hurt.
That this power  he’d never beat.
Well three decades have passed  at HUTT,
and its borders have never been shut.
Diplomatic relations
with many nations
are the future – and treason it’s NOT.
Now, the country called HRPP
is alive, independent and free.
Only once did it seem
an impossible dream
of a man who’s determined to be.
So what makes this story unique?
Is it showing the strong  versus weak?
For, to simply secede
-an astonishing deed-
it belongs to a different league.
Well, I’m nearing the end of this story,
of freedom and courage and glory.
Don’t you wish that you had
as much guts as this lad,
he succeeded and never was sorry.
Just some parting words and the conclusion
‘bout a place of resplendent seclusion.
Me? -I like what I see!
It’s the place to be.
And, most certainly not an illusion.
On a map it is only a sliver.
To the pollies? It makes them shiver!
But wherever you are
it never seems far:
Our beautiful, precious Hutt River.
July,2004
Happy Birthday
Blow out the candles and make one wish
Since it's the day where you get your way
While everyone pampers you with gifts
I'll be sitting here and only left to think
if we were together maybe this birthday would mean so much to me as well........
Even though Im invisible to you
You dont know me to
You have your friends, the love for music by your side
Well, happy birthday stanger
For someone with a broken hearts
god knows how it feels
He doesnt even know how much I care,
how i cant stop but just stop and stare
its so hard.....so hard to just tell  him the truth
Happy birthday stranger
Happy birthday, my love
Yes, He gave the nod,
to the two of you then
and he found it not odd
he'd created these men
and he christened him Todd
and assigned him to Mary,
what was scripted by God
cannot end up contrary.
From the Down Under Land
we do send our wishes
but you must understand
that you'll still do the dishes
on this day of your birth
'cause you do have great skill
and for what it is worth
keep your house very still.
Be it known that the reason
for a man's volunteering
cannot be seen as treason
just some smart engineering.
You can see she is busy
writing great poetry
so don't be in a tizzy,
let her spirit be free.
May the day give you pleasure
and the cake a success
you do have a great treasure
and a poet no less.
How I loved you the day you were born
How I loved you growing into a beautiful woman
How much I wanted the best for you
Now I love what you have become
I watched you bloom like a beautiful flower
You nourished my life with your presence
You made me feel secure in my love
I am so proud of who you are
You taught me so much
Often it was not easy
We suffered in sorrow together
I was the tree…you were the strong branch
Now you have become the tree
Now, you are a mother yourself
Now a mother’s love you can see
I thank God you are a part of me forever
You are only one day older than you were yesterday
Your birthday reminds us to celebrate your life
Be joyful, be fruitful, be peaceful, and be healthy
Happy Birthday daughter…and many more to come
A fringe of rushes -- one green line
Upon a faded plain;
A silver streak of water-shine --
Above, tree-watchers twain.
It was our resting-place awhile,
And still, with backward gaze,
We say: "'Tis many a weary mile --
But there were happy days."
And shall no ripple break the sand
Upon our farther way?
Or reedy ranks all knee-deep stand?
Or leafy tree-tops sway?
The gold of dawn is surely met
In sunset's lavish blaze;
And -- in horizons hidden yet --
There shall be happy days.
I'll tell you what is wrong with me
I hope you will not weep
Happy dreams of marder are enchanting my nights sleep
Nothing wakes me late at night sedatives stopped all that
I wouldn't even wake up if you hit me with a bat
My dreams are filled with bloodshed the massacre won't stop
I can't restrain the pleasure i gain from spilling every drop
I've killed the guys who've pissed me off every worthless sot
Killed Franks, and Jeffs, and many Bobs, and a guy whose name was Lott
My method is machine gun as they lined up in their cue
Perhaps they are all lawyers thinking i'm the next they'll sue
Maybe the media has trained me to be
Less sensitive to my fellows humanity
Or maybe i have inherited a relatives insanity
No matter what the truth is i chalk it up to fate
It's better to marder in your sleep than dream of a face you hate
Happy dreams of marder are giving me good nights rest
Nightmares filled with violence excite my heart the best
Happy dreams of Marder are where my nights are mired
It's silly but i dream of killy
When im truly tired
Beau Golden
1988
For Margot
Snow that fallest from heaven, bear me aloft on thy wings
To the domes of the star-girdled Seven, the abode of
ineffable things,
Quintessence of joy and of strength, that, abolishing
future and past,
Mak'st the Present an infinite length, my soul all-One
with the Vast,
The Lone, the Unnameable God, that is ice of His
measureless cold,
Without being or form or abode, without motion or
matter, the fold
Where the shepherded Universe sleeps, with nor sense
nor delusion nor dream,
No spirit that wantons or weeps, no thought in its silence
supreme.
I sit, and am utterly still; in mine eyes is my fathomless
lust
Ablaze to annihilate Will, to crumble my being to dust,
To calcine the dust to an ash, to burn up the ash to an air,
To abolish the air with a flash of the final, the fulminant
flare.
All this I have done, and dissolved the primordial germ
of my thought;
I have rolled myself up, and revolved the wheel of my
being to Naught.
Is there even the memory left? That I was, that I am?
It is lost.
As I utter the Word, I am cleft by the last swift spear of
the frost.
Snow! I am nothing at last; I sit, and am utterly still;
They are perished, the phantoms, and past; they were
born of my weariness-will
When I craved, craved being and form, when the con-
sciousness-cloud was a mist
Precurser of stupor and storm, when I and my shadow
had kissed,
And brought into life all the shapes that confused the
clear space with their marks,
Vain spectres whose vapour escapes, a whirlwind of
ruinous sparks,
No substance have any of these; I have dreamed them in
sickness of lust,
Delirium born of disease-ah, whence was the master,
the "must"
Imposed on the All? is it true, then, that
something in me
Is subject to fate? Are there two, after all,
that can be?
I have brought all that is to an end; for myself am suffic-
ient and sole.
Do I trick myself now? Shall I rend once again this
homologous Whole?
I have stripped every garment from space; I have
strangled the secre of Time,
All being is fled from my face, with Motion's inhibited
rime.
Stiller and stiller I sit, till even Infinity fades;
'Tis an idol-'tis weakness of wit that breeds, in inanity,
shades!
Yet the fullness of Naught I become, the deepest and
steadiest Naught,
Contains in its nature the sum of the functions of being
and thought.
Still as I sit, and destroy all possible trace of the past,
All germ of the future, nor joy nor knowledge alive at the
last,
It is vain, for the Silence is dowered with a nature, the
seed of a name:
Necessity, fearfully flowered with the blossom of possible
Aim.
I am Necessity? Scry Necessity mother of Fate!
And Fate determines me "I"; and I have the Will to create.
Vast is the sphere, but it turns on itself like the pettiest
star.
And I am the looby that learns that all things equally are.
Inscrutable Nothing, the Gods, the cosmos of Fire and
of Mist.
Suns,atoms, the clouds and the clouds ineluctably dare
to exist-
I have made the Voyage of Thought, the Voyage of Vision,
I swam
To the heart of the Ocean of Naught from the source of
the Spring of I am:
I know myself wholly the brother alike of the All and the
One;
I know that all things are each other, that their sum and
their substance is None;
But the knowledge itself can excel, its fulness hath broken
its bond;
All's Truth, and all's falsehood as well, and-what of the
region beyond?
So, still though I sit, as for ever, I stab to the heart of my
spine;
I destroy the last seed of endeavour to seal up my soul
in the shrine
Of Silence, Eternity, Peace; I abandon the Here and the
Now;
I cease from the effort to cease; I absolve the dead I from
its Vow,
I am wholly content to be dust, whether that be a mote
or a star,
To live and to love and to lust, acknowledge what seem
for what are,
Not to care what I am, if I be, whence I came, whither go,
how I thrive,
If my spirit be bound or be free, save as Nature contrive.
What I am, that I am, 'tis enough. I am part of a glorious
game.
Am I cast for madness or love? I am cast to esteem them
the same.
Am I only a dream in the sleep of some butterfly?
Phantom of fright
Conceived, who knows how, or how deep, in the measure-
less womb of the night?
I imagine impossible thought, metaphysical voids that
beget
Ideas intagible wrought to things less conceivable yet.
It may be. Little I reck -but, assume the existence of
earth.
Am I born to be hanged by the neck, a curse from the
hour of my birth?
Am I born to abolish man's guilt? His horrible heritage,
awe?
Or a seed in his wantoness spilt by a jester? I care not
a straw,
For I understand Do what thou wilt; and that is the whole
of the Law.
After they had not made love
she pulled the sheet up over her eyes
until he was buttoning his shirt:
not shyness for their bodies- those
they had willingly displayed- but a frail
endeavour to apologise.
Later, though, drawn together by
a distaste for such 'untidy ends'
they agreed to meet again; whereupon
they giggled, reminisced, held hands
as though what they had made was love-
and not that happier outcome- friends.
Is there always a happy ending,
to every song and a story.
Some are happy, and others weep,
and then there are those,
that finish in glory.
Is there a happy ending, to every day,
maybe not, when your filled with grief
and it's not stopped raining,
and the sky is grey.
Happy endings are made by you
it's how you  work, and go about it,
can make that ending come true..
Just be yourself, however small,
and smile when things get out of tune,
a happy ending, can be found.
Then life becomes, just one honeymoon
I'd love to wish you,
'happy everything',
I want to kiss you,
'bless everything'
I need to sing,
'Happy everything'
I want to shout,
'Happy everything', to you
The sun is out,
bright blue is the sky.
nothing out of place, were all gonna try
'Happy everything'
People sing.......'Happy everything'
The priest chant..'Happy everything'
The kids cry........'Happy everything'
Everyone wants..'Happy everything'
Everything is happy,
we are all so glad.
Everything is happy,
please don't be so sad.
And soon
we'll meet again,
old man.
Me, bearing flowers,
chaperoned by
one sweet niece,
'to show the ropes'
to me, the stranger.
And water things.
You, in the ground
since that cold day
in March,
with snow
still in the hills.
Your hills
where you meandered,
chased after that
psychopathic dog,
while reminiscing
over notable
advantages,
most imagined,
of long-gone days.
And of this,
the new world,
made entirely
for others.
Yet, you took pride
in always doing
your best
in any circumstance.
'Some day,
you said,
I'll be six feet under',
yeah,
and watching,
also judging,
maybe praising
surely condemning,
only the role
of executioner
to be denied.
That day did come.
You were prepared
of course.
The moment that
you closed
the final book,
and the last journal
where you had searched
with urgency
and all your brilliance,
for one more cure.
The one that would,
though hard to find,
be carrying your name.
When you were beaten
you would nod,
as if to say
'the subject's closed',
that's what you did.
As to the rest of us,
those  left,
we were perplexed
and short of words,
of clever thoughts.
And were expected
(and observed)
to show appropriate
behaviour,
like grief
and talent
of an organising spirit.
Which, being in a
niche of status
in a society,
stitched and
held together
by musty remnants
of our everlasting
bourgeoisie.
We did.
This time, old man
I want to warn you
in advance
with unaccustomed
and antipodean-like
courtesy,
there will be little
if any
conversation.
What,  with the kid,
she'd be so
ill-prepared
and might get
traumatised.
In any case,
we said our piece
last visit,
surely you remember,
it's when I asked
if you were comfy
in that hole,
hopefully not cold.
Not much to add this time,
though here is one,
a thought
to cheer you up,
I know it will,
you've had one
Father's Day already,
and I, respectful son,
who lives in
a Down Under
that's still above
the ground
(what a pun, sorry) ,
brings you another one,
a different date
from different worlds.
Thus you get two
just for the price of one.
So, I must close now.
My plane is leaving,
soon, too soon perhaps,
just wanted you to know
that I'll be there
to say Hello and
Happy Father's Day.
'Til then,
from man to man,
I send respect
to you, while going
back in time
to very early
memories.
My lovely kitten,
Eternity kissed,
You brought miracle joy
With your beaming brown eyes;
You delivered visions,
You let the mind drift
Into esoteric meditations
Like satellites
Into planetary explorations;
I now find God in mysterious dreams
Where door locks unbolt
By the power of psychic thoughts.
Angelic love beings
Float through the atmosphere
Like mystical feathers;
There is an invisible caress,
Felt nonetheless,
It finds me when I’m lost,
Helps me when
I’m darkness depressed.
I will fling death
Into a happy grave
And live forever!
All the smiles gather today
And hang with you
The sun send its most
beautiful ray
for your birthday
All the stars shall shine
in a special way.
May all your dear ones
Be at the distance of
kind holding hands!
And to all presents I shall add
one million hugs
and a most beautiful and tasty
imaginary home made cake
from so very far away
! ! Happy Birthday! ! !
'Happy Happy birthday lisalisa'
To the 'LOVELY,
AND MUCH RESPECTED MUSICAL LADY'
with the most~
'ENDURING, BIG HEART'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL RAPPING Toast'
just 'SUPER FINE LADY hot'
and 'DIVA, ROCK-N-ROLL sexy'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'Babealicious, HOT GIRL dominatrix
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'VIVACIOUS BEBE'
as 'HIP-HOP sexy'
and 'VIDEO GIRL hot'
as 'LISALISA SEXY HOT LADY You'
------------
'Happy birthday Amanda the Bass Girl'
To the 'VERY LOVELY LADY'
with the most~
'BEAUTIFULLY, FRIENDLY BRIGHT SMILE'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICALLY CUTE Toast'
just as 'SUPER INTELLIGENT'
and 'MATHEMATICAL SMART'
as to say to you ~
I hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'EXECUTIVE SUPER ACCOUNTANT'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'PERFECT COLLEGE GRADUATE' ~
as 'HONEST' and MARRIAGE ENDURING' as 'Amanda the Bass Girl You'
-------------
'Happy birthday M NIGHTCLUB: : EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT!
TO the 'ALWAYS IMITATED
NEVER DUPLICATED, NIGHTCLUB'
with the most~
'SEXY AND UPSCALE NIGHTCLUBBING
AT ITS BEST! '
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL, SPREAD DA WORD Toast'
just as 'SEXY LADIES FREE,
TILL 11PM HOT'
and '$10 ALL NITE SEXY'
as to say to you ~
I hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'EXECUTIVE VIP NIGHTCLUB'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'PERFECT HOT SPOT' ~
as 'LETS, 'GET SILLY FRIDAY NIGHTS' CRAZY'
and 'DO THAT 'THURSDAYS NIGHT BUZZ' as '21+ SIP 18+ DIP'
AS 'www. flowfriday. com You'
-------------
'Happy birthday E'
TO the 'ALWAYS IMITATED
NEVER DUPLICATED HOT BOY'
with the most~
'FRESHER DEN A MUHFUCKA GOODLOOKS'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL, E WORD Toast'
just as 'THROW THAT SEXY'
and 'NITE TIME HOT'
as to say to you ~
I hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'RUN-EM-DOWN BROTHER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'BROTHER MAN'
as 'SILLY CRAZY'
and 'DO THAT BUZZ'
AS 'What up Blood' You-
---------
'Happy Happy birthday mark'
To the 'CUTEST GUY AT THE PARTY'
with the most~
'HANDY, HANDSOME GOOD LOOK'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as
'GOOD as, THAT NEW CAR SMELL'
and just as
'FUN as, THAT LONG FAST DRIVE'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'HIP-HOP MUSICAL LOVER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'LADIES MAN'
as 'FAST CAR HOT'
and 'CUTE BOY REAL'
as 'GOOD GUY MARK YOU'
Happy Happy birthday Sasha'
To the 'LOVELIEST SUPER MODEL IN THE WORLD'
with the most~
'DEFINED FLAWLESS FRAME'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
Just as 'SWEETLY WHOLESOME'
and 'NICELY GIVEN'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a 'FASCINATING MODEL'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'PERFECT BEAUTY'
as 'ONE OF A KIND, Attractive'
and 'EXQUISITELY LOVEY'
as 'Sasha Lace You'
-----------
'Happy Happy birthday JC'
To the 'SMOOTH, TALKING Chief'
with the most~
'HANDLE ON WHAT A WOMAN WANTS'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'DREAMY'
and 'CUTE'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a 'REAL, YOUNG MAN'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'LADY'S MAN'
as 'MAGNET' and 'CHARMING'
as 'JC THE BEST MAN FOR You'
-----------
Happy Happy Birthday ஐ ~•° VaLentiNe°•~ஐ '
To the 'LOVELY YOUNG LADY'
with the most~
'BEAUTIFUL, SWEET FACE'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'KIND'
and 'NICE'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'RESPECTFUL LITTLE LADY'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'SWEET SMELLING FLOWER'
as 'GOOD' and 'NICE'
as 'ஐ ~•° VaLentiNe°•~ஐ YOU'
------------
'Happy Happy Birthday CHRIS'
To the
'SEXIEST FIREMAN IN THE WORLD'
with the most~
'HOT AND HEAVY GOOD LOOKS'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
I lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'BURNING SEXY'
and 'SCORCHING HOT'
as to say to you ~
I hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'STRONG, SUPER HOT MAN'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'VIRGO HOT BABE'
as TWISTED SEXY'
and 'PERFECTLY SMART'
as 'FIREMAN SAVE ME CHRIS, YOU'
-----------
'Happy birthday Soul Sounds Radio'
To the 'SOUL SOUNDS RADIO HOST'
with the most~
'UNDERGROUND hip hop Music'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'GENUINE'
and 'SOULFUL'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a SOUL BROTHER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'SOUL SOUND DJ'
as 'UNDERGROUND COOL'
and 'SOUL SOUND hot
as 'SoulSoundsradio. com You'
------------
'Happy Birthday NEW DAYZ VIETNAM'
To the 'COMPANION OF PEACE AND LOVE'
with the most~
'INDIE ROCK VOCALS'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'SOULFUL'
and 'DEEP'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a 'WRITER dominatrix'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to an
'HONORABLE HERO to Rock MUSIC'
as 'GREAT and GIVING'
as 'NEW DAYZ VIETNAM You'
----------
Happy Birthday SALLY CANO SUPER AGENT'
To the 'Century 21 E-N Realtor'
with the most~
'Satisfaction in HER JOB! '
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'MARKET SELLING hot'
and 'HOMEOWNER BUYING GREAT'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'SUPER AGENT dominatrix'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'QUALIFIED REAL ESTATE BETA'
as HONEST, and DEPENDABLE
as 'http: //www. sallycano. com
YOU'
-----------
'Happy Happy birthday ForBiddeN aka Christine Dolce'
To the
'UNDERGROUND, FLAWLESS, PRINCESS OF PERFECTION'
with the most~
'FASCINATED, MINIONS, OF VALUED FOLLOWERS
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as:
'MIND BENDING DEEP'
and 'GENUINELY MASQUERADING WITH ATTITUDE'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'FASHION MODEL'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'COMPANION OF ABSTRACT BEAUTY
as
'LOVELY and POETIC'
as 'TWISTED ELEGANCE, Christine Dolce YOU'
---------------
'Happy Happy birthday BIG SEXY (KOLORADO KING) '
To the
'UNDISPUTED KING OF RAP'
with the most~
'NAME TO THE POWER'
'OF THE LYRICAL GAME'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'Freak TO THE WE Toast'
Just as 'RAP-IN IT UP TO THE BEAT'
and 'PLAY-EN IT UP THE CROWD'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'SMOOTH MOVE-IN, KOLORADO KING'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'BIG SEXY, DANCING MACHINE'
as 'LYRICAL-DE·LI·CIOUS'
and 'BEAT-PLAY-EN'
Better THAN THE REST'
as 'KOLORADO KING, BIG SEXY YOU'
Happy Happy birthday ☆ Toadluvinlady☆ '
To the 'LOVELY, TOAD LUV IN LADY'
with the most~
'COMPASSIONATE HEART'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL toast'
just as 'BEAUTIFULLY WONDERFUL'
and 'SPONTANEOUSLY SWEET'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'INTELLIGENT ASPIRING POETRY WRITER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'INDEPENDENT WOMEN'
as 'BEAUTIFUL, as WHEN SHE LAUGHING'
and as 'ACCOMPLISH as when SHE'S GIVING LOVE'
as '☆ Toadluvinlady☆ ' YOU
aka: lyricvixen
---------------------
'Happy Happy Birthday to roxy'
To the 'LOVELY MORNING STAR'
with the most
'TERRESTRIAL REFLECTIVE HEAVENLY BODY'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
I lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'MAGNETICALLY SWEET'
and 'UTTERLY ENCHANTING'
as to say to you ~
I hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a 'Venus BABE'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'maximum, LITTLE LADY'
as 'BRIGHT'
and 'SURFACE LOVELY'
as 'ROXY, uwishuhadme24 YOU'
aka: lyricvixen
=================================== ===========
'Happy Happy Birthday Brandon'
To the 'GREATEST FIGHTER'
with the most~
'STRENGTH of BODY and MIND'
'TO CONQUER and defeat'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'ATHLETICALLY COMPETITIVE'
and 'AUTHENTICALLY BRAVE'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'TAKE-EM DOWN TO THE FLOW, FIGHTER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'WARRIOR as Self-contained'
and as 'ACCOMPLISHED'
as 'PRECISION, ONE'
'Brandon, THE ONE AND ONLY YOU'
aka: lyricvixen
--------------------
'Happy Happy birthday Kaleo'
To the 'SEXY, MAN A LIVE'
with the most~
'ANGELIC, FLAWLESS FACE'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'BABY, YOUR SO FINE'
and 'WHY? YOU SO HOT'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a 'DREAM LOVER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'BABE-A-licious'
as 'TOUCHABLE'
and 'SWEET to the TASTE'
as 'Kaleo WONDERFUL You'
aka: lyricvixen
=================================== ==
Happy Happy birthday Tati'
To the 'PRETTIEST GIRL AROUND'
with the most~
'PREFECT SMILE'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'BUEATFULLY BRIGHT'
and 'ALWAYS SEXY'
as to say to you ~
I hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'GIRL IN A PINK Bi·ki·ni'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a 'WONDERFUL GAL'
as 'HOT-O-licious'
and 'SWEETLY FRIENDLY'
as 'Tati, GOOD GIRL YOU'
aka: lyricvixen
=================================== =====
'Happy Birthday GROVE STREET E-N-T'
To the 'ENTERTAINMENT PROMOTER'
with the most~
'Quid pro quo per buck'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'lyricvixen LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'PARTIES HOSTING FUN'
and 'VIP Clientèle HOT'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a
'COMPLEX MONEY MAKER'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a
'INDEPENDENT INFLUENTIAL PROMOTERS'
as 'NOTABLY FLY'
and 'EXCLUSIVELY hot'
as 'GROVE STREET E-N-T You'
aka: lyricvixen
==================================< br>'Happy Happy birthday Laurens Antoine for FHM Casting'
To the
'FHM CASTING AUTHORITY'
WITH the most~
'BEAUTIFULLY PHOTOGRAPHED WOMEN
in THE WORLD'
let me say ~
happy happy birthday to you ~
i lift up my glass with a~
'LYRICAL Toast'
just as 'VISUAL DESIGN'
and 'GRACEFULLY DEFINED'
as to say to you ~
i hope you have a ~
happy happy birthday~
that only a 'DEDICATED Icon'
like you can do ~
happy happy birthday ~
to a
'EMBODYING SYMBOL of QUALITY'
as 'ELEMENTALLY SEXY'
and 'MAGAZINE CASTING HOT'
as 'THE ONE AND ONLY'
'Laurens Antoine for FHM Casting YOU'
aka: lyricvixen
There's nothing wrong with me
...I'm happy
I live life to wake each day
...and be happy
i want to enjoy it in each and every way
...and be happy
I feel content to be here now
...i'm very happy
To be depressed i wouldn't know how
...because i'm happy
i walk each day with a smile on my face
...yep, because i'm happy
i don't like to cry or be sad
...because my life is happy
i think being miserable, is what makes people lives bad
...so, you guessed it, i'm happy
are you? =]
It's true that in one life
One can't achieve what he wishes,
Or can reach his goal.
It's true, fire in cold may take lives.
And water drowns if it flows over head.
Still, life never bans fire and water.
Hope and despair dancing between sunshine and rain,
Never stop us to move forward.
We cry, we laugh, we fall, we rise,
We hug life to say yes to death.
None is foe, none is enemy,
Alone we come, alone we go.
Keeping a chuckle on our lips,
We must say, may happiness lie everywhere,
In everyone's life....
HAPPY HAPPY NEW YEAR Friends.
Happy he who like Ulysses
Happy he who like Ulysses has returned
successful from his travels, or like he
who sought the Golden Fleece, to rest well earned -
wise to the world - amongst his family.
When shall I see again my place of birth,
its chimney smoke, and at what time of year,
when seen that little, modest, plot of earth
which means far more to me than I draw here.
I’m drawn far more to my ancestral home
than to a Roman palace fine and proud,
prefer fine slate to marble, rather roam
along the Loire than sport midst Tiber’s crowd.
My Liré I prefer to Palatine,
and to sea air, soft climate Angevine.
© Jonathan Robin – translation robi3_0652_bell2_0003 PST_JMX 10 December  1992
Parody Joachim du Bellay 1515_1560 – Heureux qui comme Ulysse see below
Heureux qui, comme Ulysse, a fait un beau voyage
Heureux qui, comme Ulysse, a fait un beau voyage
Ou comme celui là qui conquit la toison,
Et puis est retourné, plein d’usage et raison,
Vivre entre ses parents le reste de son âge!
Quand reverrai-je, hélas, de mon petit village
Fumer la cheminée: et en quelle saison
Reverrai-je le clos de ma pauvre maison,
Qui m’est une province, et beaucoup d’avantage!
Plus me plaît le séjour qu’ont bâti mes ayeux,
Que des palais Romains le front audacieux:
Plus que le marbre dur me plaît l’ardoise fine,
Plus mon Loire Gaulois que le Tibre Latin,
Plus mon petit Liré que le mont Palatin,
Et plus que l’air marin la douceur Angevine.
Joachim du Bellay 1515_1560
Triste Qui, Comme Charles
Triste qui, comme Charles, a fait un beau mariage,
Et qui donc une fois conquise la toison,
Se retrouve chez soi, plein d’usage et raison,
Vivre entre ses parents le reste de son âge!
Quand donc reverra-t-il, sans ce remue-ménage
Fumer sa cheminée: et en quelle saison
Reverra-t-il le clos de Windsor et d’Eton,
Qui lui est royaume uni, et beaucoup d’avantages!
Plus lui plaît le séjour qu’ont bâti ses aïeux,
Que la face à Diane à[f]front audacieux:
Le palais brûlé - dur! - plaît plus qu’ardoise indigne,
Plus son livre Gallois que perdre son Latin,
Plus ses délires et rêves que le mont Vénusien,
Et plus que l’air malin la douceur Camilline.
© Jonathan Robin – Parody robi3_0893_bell2_0003 PFW_JNM 20 January  1993
Parody Joachim du Bellay 1515_1560 – Heureux qui comme Ulysse
Chicken Crossings
Heureux qui, tel Poulet, a fait un beau voyage
ou comme qui la ligne étroite et blanche passe
sans rire jaune aux oeufs bonnes que pour la casse,
retourne à ses parents pour pondre jusqu'à l'âge!
Quand reverrai-je le blé livré droit à ma cage
finement hormoné: et en quelle saison
reverrai-je le clos de ma pauvre maison,
qui m’est le poulailler, et beaucoup d’avantages?
Plus me plaît le séjour bâti pour mes aïeux,
que poulets aux sirènes, aux radars pernicieux:
plus que macadam dur me plaît l’ardoise fine,
plus ma gLoire plumée que les plumes laissées,
plus mes petits pondus que se faire écraser,
et plus que l’air malin la douceur Angevine.
© Jonathan Robin – Parody written 20 May 1999 Parody Joachim du Bellay 1515_1560 – Heureux qui comme Ulysse
Happy as the Cock
Happy proud rooster who has travelled far
Across life's stream with hens in indian file,
Preened white, red comb, and walked the gangplank trial
Penned in terse lines that verse bright humour's star.
Yearning for home, who roamed, to pen they are,
Assured of rest, returning, strut in style,
Say best nest eggs they'll lay, loud crow awhile.
Triumphant cock-a-doodle echoes jar
Hard-hearted humans who aren't up to par,
Eggs daily may not lay, nor soar mobile,
Current carried, fair through air agile,
Or cluck like duck to woodchuck.  Men, bizarre,
Chuckle they are born to lead, indeed
Know not lead rots hot head, heads for poor breed!
© Jonathan Robin robi3_1898_bell2_0003 ASW_MOX 22 August 2009
my dad hides his whiskey
in the toy closet
beside the plastic planes
and under the fake grenades
he hides the gin
beneath the book shelves
where Frank and Joe Hardy
catch their first underage
the vodka
he gently places
behind the outside freezer
next to boxes, crates and forgotten chores
but the scotch,
the scotch he keeps near the kitchen
to grab on his way
..............................to the nuts in the cupboard.
Happy is England! I could be content
To see no other verdure than its own;
To feel no other breezes than are blown
Through its tall woods with high romances blent:
Yet do I sometimes feel a languishment
For skies Italian, and an inward groan
To sit upon an Alp as on a throne,
And half forget what world or worldling meant.
Happy is England, sweet her artless daughters;
Enough their simple loveliness for me,
Enough their whitest arms in silence clinging:
Yet do I often warmly burn to see
Beauties of deeper glance, and hear their singing,
And float with them about the summer waters.
Thousands of miles away
Once again, it's fookin' Mother's Day!
You and I don't talk,
You're mad at me while I refuse to bawk!
I'd love to be able to call you,
To tell you, I'll always love you,
That I'm proud to be your daughter...
I'd love to have you in my life,
Let you know, I'll soon be someone's wife,
To show you what kind of woman I've become,
I have you meet the man I find most handsome.
Being your daughter, I must say it truly sadens my heart,
Our lives being so far apart.
If I was to call, I'd wind up crying
Screaming and throwing the phone up against the wall,
Guess it's a good thing there's no laws,
Or else i'd be charged for phone~slaughter!
Guilty on the first degree....
Like mother like daughter!
Hope that one day you'll see that,
Regardless of our differences
I really do love and miss you.
I still hold a special place for you in my heart,
Even though our DNA's the only thing we have in common,
Maybe next Mother's Day we wont be so far apart.
Happy Mother's Day Mom! Love you!
Born is A New Year!
Gone is an old year;
Let’s add new cheer,
Live without fear.
Greet your neighbors;
Greet some strangers;
Greet all your friends;
And make amends.
’Tis never late
To change one’s fate;
Problems abate:
Wait for that date.
Forget past woes;
Forget chaos;
With hope, of course:
Thus, our life goes.
Abide in God;
Await His nod;
Avoid His rod,
And thank the Lord.
When God's with us,
There is no curse;
Walk without fuss;
He sure will bless.
Copyright by Dr John Celes
1-1-2006
Happy New Year tsunami
Happy New Year hurricanes
Happy New Year earthquakes
Happy New Year floods
Happy New Year fires
Happy New Year whining tree-saws
Happy New Year broken oven
Happy New Year broken refridgerator
Happy New Year broken promises
Happy New Year working computer
Happy New Year screeching ears
Happy New Year wet windows parched garden
Happy New Year dripping tap
drip
drip
drip
Drip.
i cant wait anymore
night getting longer forever more
waiting for a new start
new begining to play my part
resolutions to make
promise to never break
chance to make things right
future prosperous and bright
new year fills my heart with hope
delighted am i for the new leap
i welcome 2007 the new year
wishing you all a happy new year
happy new year
jibin joseph.................
On poemhunter's busy streets
your average Joe most surely meets
if so inclined, the cream of words
one finds the free spirits and nerds,
it's been a home to visit often
each stay means that inside we soften
and learn so effort-free from others,
then tease our new poetic brothers
and sisters, uncles like Lamont
who teaches us the proper font
and Jefferson, Sir Boxershorts
whose comments can be blunt, of sorts.
There's Jerry, Allan, Ernestine
and Mary, always on the scene,
Mahnaz and Sally, Adrienne
Ulrike, Sonja, countless men.
I cannot mention all today
but do permit me, here to say
that I am glad the wars are won
as recently I sold my gun
it's nice to come here to relax
away from telephone and fax
a cozy cabin in the woods,
no gangster clowns with funny hoods,
let's all sit by our crackling fire
read poetry that we admire
and add our humble, heartfelt lines
while tasting from those ancient wines
from genes that will not ever die
and words that laugh and sometimes cry.
Let us send praises to the man
who built this cabin for our clan
perhaps we shall, two-thousand six
through cunning and some harmless tricks
become acquainted with this kind
and generous and gracious mind.
To him and all who share this site
let us turn up our guiding light
be kind to those who may dropp in
treat all as equals, next of kin.
May all be blessed by perfect health
and those who must, God give you wealth
may happiness, a constant grin
be with you like a second skin.
For those whose names I may have missed
and others, whom in thought I've kissed
to bring this faux to my attention
the proper way that you must mention
is in the forum, your objection.
So, grab a pen and some reflection
write a rebuttal with your views
it may appear as forum news.
Happy new year,
Happy new year to you,
Say you,
Wish you,
Bid you with the benediction,
But revel you not
In new year revelries
Just as revellers do
After being rowdy,
Taking to full,
Emptying wine bottles,
Consuming more and more wine,
Just as drunkards do
Dancing and enjoying
To end themselves.
Go ahead and make me sad
It’s okay if it makes you happy
Rip my heart out and stomp on it
It’s okay if it makes you happy
Pour salt inside these wounds
I’ll lick them clean if it makes you happy
Corrode my heart like an ancient ruin
I’ll live there forever if it makes you happy
I don’t care if it makes you happy
I don’t care if it makes you happy
I don’t care about myself just as long
As you’re always happy
I’ll survive all of this
As long as I know you’re always happy
Whatever makes you happy!
Whatever makes you happy!
Burn the photographs; forget about me
I’ll forget about me too, if it makes you happy
I’m so sorry if I ever hurt you
Baby you’re the only thing that makes me happy
I miss the dimple upon your chin
I just miss, being happy
I’m sorry for anything I’ve done
And I’m sorry I can’t make you happy
I just wish I could make you happy
Happy the lab'rer in his Sunday clothes!
In light-drab coat, smart waistcoat, well-darn'd hose,
Andhat upon his head, to church he goes;
As oft, with conscious pride, he downward throws
A glance upon the ample cabbage rose
That, stuck in button-hole, regales his nose,
He envies not the gayest London beaux.
In church he takes his seat among the rows,
Pays to the place the reverence he owes,
Likes best the prayers whose meaning least he knows,
Lists to the sermon in a softening doze,
And rouses joyous at the welcome close.
Happy the man, and happy he alone,
He who can call today his own:
He who, secure within, can say,
Tomorrow do thy worst, for I have lived today.
Be fair or foul or rain or shine
The joys I have possessed, in spite of fate, are mine.
Not Heaven itself upon the past has power,
But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.
The world is so full of a number of things,
I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings.
I have to keep reminding myself to forget you.
Forget you and me.
(Happy thoughts, happy thoughts, think happy thoughts.)
You wanted me to promise to never say it again
Those three words
(Happy thoughts, happy thoughts, think happy thoughts)
Which is laughably easy to do right now because
We are so far out of touch I couldn’t reach you if I tried
(Happy thoughts, happy thoughts, think happy thoughts)
So I plod through grey days and inky dark nights
Heavy laden with regret
(Happy thoughts, happy thoughts, think happy thoughts)
Tomorrow I will remind myself to forget you.
Forget you and me.
12-25-07
djlw
I hope your happy with your life
I hope your happy with your wife
I hope you see what you have done
I hope you see that this is all wrong
I hope you realise that your not perfect
I hope you see that money's not worth it
I hope you realise that family comes first
I hope you see that my smile was rehearsed
I hope you see that your tearing me apart
I hope you someday grow a heart
I hope someday I will want to see you
I hope someday I wont have to see you
I hope you suffer, but I dont want that
I hope you die, but I dont mean that
I hope someday your 'love' will be real
I hope someday you will 'feel'
I hope you realise that money cant heal
I hope someday you'll feel, what I feel
I hope that before you die
I hope to tell you, I wont cry
I hoped you would be a good dad
I hoped you wouldnt make me mad
But all my hopes from before are gone
just like the love you had for their mom
I hope that I see you one last time
I hope I get to tell you this:
'I wish I never knew you
because of you....I wish I didnt exist....'
1510
How happy is the little Stone
That rambles in the Road alone,
And doesn't care about Careers
And Exigencies never fears—
Whose Coat of elemental Brown
A passing Universe put on,
And independent as the Sun
Associates or glows alone,
Fulfilling absolute Decree
In casual simplicity—
898
How happy I was if I could forget
To remember how sad I am
Would be an easy adversity
But the recollecting of Bloom
Keeps making November difficult
Till I who was almost bold
Lose my way like a little Child
And perish of the cold.
How still, how happy! Those are words
That once would scarce agree together;
I loved the plashing of the surge -
The changing heaven the breezy weather,
More than smooth seas and cloudless skies
And solemn, soothing, softened airs
That in the forest woke no sighs
And from the green spray shook no tears.
How still, how happy! now I feel
Where silence dwells is sweeter far
Than laughing mirth's most joyous swell
However pure its raptures are.
Come, sit down on this sunny stone:
'Tis wintry light o'er flowerless moors -
But sit - for we are all alone
And clear expand heaven's breathless shores.
I could think in the withered grass
Spring's budding wreaths we might discern;
The violet's eye might shyly flash
And young leaves shoot among the fern.
It is but thought - full many a night
The snow shall clothe those hills afar
And storms shall add a drearier blight
And winds shall wage a wilder war,
Before the lark may herald in
Fresh foliage twined with blossoms fair
And summer days again begin
Their glory - haloed crown to wear.
Yet my heart loves December's smile
As much as July's golden beam;
Then let us sit and watch the while
The blue ice curdling on the stream -
Happy soul that free from harms
Rests within his Shepherd's arms!
Who his quiet shall molest?
Who shall violate his rest?
Jesus doth his spirit bear,
Jesus takes his every care;
He who found the wandering sheep,
Jesus still delights to keep.
O that I might so believe,
Steadfastly to Jesus cleave,
On his only love rely,
Smile at the destroyer nigh;
Free from sin and servile fear,
Have my Jesus ever near,
All his care rejoice to prove,
All his paradise of love!
Jesus, seek thy wandering sheep,
Bring me back, and lead, and keep;
Take on thee my every care,
Bear me, on thy bosom bear:
Let me know my Shepherd's voice,
More and more in thee rejoice,
More and more of thee receive,
Ever in thy Spirit live:
Live, till all thy life I know,
Perfect through my Lord below,
Gladly then from earth remove,
Gathered to the fold above.
O that I at last may stand
With the sheep at thy right hand,
Take the crown so freely given,
Enter in by thee to heaven!
Happy the man that finds the grace,
The blessing of God's chosen race,
The wisdom coming from above,
The faith that sweetly works by love.
Happy beyond description he
Who knows, The Saviour died for me,
The gift unspeakable obtains,
And heavenly understanding gains.
Wisdom divine! Who tells the price
Of wisdom's costly merchandise
Wisdom to silver we prefer,
And gold is dross compared to her.
Her hands are filled with length of days,
True riches, and immortal praise,
Riches of Christ, on all bestowed,
And honour that descends from God.
To purest joys she all invites,
Chaste, holy, spiritual delights;
Her ways are ways of pleasantness,
And all her flowery paths are peace.
Happy the man who wisdom gains,
Thrice happy who his guest retains!
He owns, and shall for ever own,
Wisdom, and Christ, and heaven are one.
Happy the souls to Jesus joined,
And saved by grace alone,
Walking in all his ways they find
Their heaven on earth begun.
The church triumphant in thy love,
Their mighty joys we know;
They sing the Lamb in hymns above,
And we in hymns below.
Thee in thy glorious realm they praise,
And bow before thy throne,
We in the kingdom of thy grace:
The kingdoms are but one.
The holy to the holiest leads,
From thence our spirits rise,
And he that in thy statutes treads
Shall meet thee in the skies.
Happy the souls that first believed,
To Jesus and each other cleaved,
Joined by the unction from above
In mystic fellowship of love.
Meek, simple followers of the Lamb,
They lived, and spake, and thought the same;
They joyfully conspired to raise
Their ceaseless sacrifice of praise.
With grace abundantly endued,
A pure, believing multitude,
They all were of one heart and soul,
And only love inspired the whole.
O what an age of golden days!
O what a choice, peculiar race!
Washed in the Lamb's all-cleansing blood,
Anointed kings and priests to God!
Ye different sects, who all declare,
"Lo, here is Christ! " or, "Christ is here!"
Your stronger proofs divinely give,
And show me where the Christians live.
The gates of hell cannot prevail;
The church on earth can never fail;
Ah, join me to thy secret ones!
Ah, gather all thy living stones!
Scattered o'er all the earth they lie,
Till thou collect them with thine eye,
Draw by the music of thy name,
And charm into a beauteous frame.
For this the pleading Spirit groans,
And cries in all thy banished ones;
Greatest of gifts, thy love impart,
And make us of one mind and heart.
Join every soul that looks to thee
In bonds of perfect charity;
Now, Lord, the glorious fullness give,
And all in all for ever live!
I am happy,
You are happy,
We are happy to be both here;
It's so lovely,
Yes so lovely,
It's summertime in the air.
When a bloom's born in spring,
See how lovely it becomes,
With your heart along sing,
Wake up from winter’s glums;
Life is growing again,
From the old that's asleep,
From the mountains to glen,
All the flowers now reap.
You will be singing in tune,
With the wonders of time,
For the blossoms of June,
Fit like a song to a rime;
When all life comes in full,
With its growth and its skills,
No moment's longer dull,
There's just song in the hills.
I am happy,
You are happy,
It's the happiest time of the year;
It's so lovely,
Yes so lovely,
When life's growing everywhere.
Time renews all our wishes,
What grows old is born anew,
After some temporary glitches,
Again earth restores its debut.
Oh! I am so happy
I am so happy at what
It is happening to me
I am getting Old
I am Ageing
I am loosing my teeth
My hair is turning grey
For now on,
Everybody would listen to me
The entire village would sit down
Quietly and listen to what
I would have to say
Most of the evenings
The children would abandon their houses
Rush to my place
They will arrange the fire woods
Which they will bring from
Their own houses
And put fire on them
Regardless of what their parents would say
They would still come to my place
Congregate around the fire
Even if I was sleeping
They would drag me out of my house
By force so I can tell them stories
Or I can give advice
One day I did run out of tales to tell them
They insisted of hearing the story of my life
Oh I am so happy to be ageing
Even when my mouth smells
Grown up still want to come close
To me and put their ear near my mouth
Not even closing their nose
And listen to what I have to say
Everyone wants to be my grandchild
Even those who don’t live in our village
Bow in front of me
As if I was the village chief
I don’t know if life can get better than this
But I still have major problems to solve
How can I get back
My privacy that I have lost
I am not anymore able to be
By myself and I am not allow to refuse
Any food that is given to me by everybody
Every single day as if
They were in some sort of
Food giving contest
Well… Anyway…
I am still very happy to be ageing…
www.frederickyamusangie.or g.uk
I'm only happy when it rains
without a cloud in the sky
I'm only happy in these chains
all that I can do is cry
I'm only happy when I bleed
it let's me know I'm alive
I'm only happy when I need
just myself to survive
I'm only happy when I dream
of my long lost love
I'm only happy when I scream
at the Heavens above
I'm only happy when I'm alone
at war with my brain
I'm only happy when I've known
that life is just pain
I'm only happy when I'm lost
and I can't find my way
I'm only happy when I've crossed
the path of disarray
I'm only happy when I see
death is my way out
I know I'll be free
I have no doubt
I'm only happy when I'm told
that I've gone insane
I'm only happy when I hold
all these thoughts in my brain
I'm only happy when I sleep
and go out of my mind
I'm only happy when I'm in too deep
I'm only happy when it's me you cannot find
Blessed be Thou for all the joy
My soul has felt today!
O let its memory stay with me
And never pass away!
I was alone, for those I loved
Were far away from me,
The sun shone on the withered grass,
The wind blew fresh and free.
Was it the smile of early spring
That made my bosom glow?
'Twas sweet, but neither sun nor wind
Could raise my spirit so.
Was it some feeling of delight,
All vague and undefined?
No, 'twas a rapture deep and strong,
Expanding in the mind!
Was it a sanguine view of life
And all its transient bliss­-
A hope of bright prosperity?
O no, it was not this!
It was a glimpse of truth divine
Unto my spirit given
Illumined by a ray of light
That shone direct from heaven!
I felt there was a God on high
By whom all things were made.
I saw His wisdom and his power
In all his works displayed.
But most throughout the moral world
I saw his glory shine;
I saw His wisdom infinite,
His mercy all divine.
Deep secrets of his providence
In darkness long concealed
Were brought to my delighted eyes
And graciously revealed.
But while I wondered and adored
His wisdom so divine,
I did not tremble at his power,
I felt that God was mine.
I knew that my Redeemer lived,
I did not fear to die;
Full sure that I should rise again
To immortality.
I longed to view that bliss divine
Which eye hath never seen,
To see the glories of his face
Without the veil between.
Move eastward, happy earth, and leave
Yon orange sunset waning slow:
From fringes of the faded eve,
O, happy planet, eastward go:
Till over thy dark shoulder glow
Thy silver sister world, and rise
To glass herself in dewey eyes
That watch me from the glen below.
Ah, bear me with thee, lightly borne,
Dip forward under starry light,
And move me to my marriage-morn,
And round again to happy night.
Last day of school,
going to the pool.
First day of spring.
Didn't get a bee sting.
Birth of a first born child,
weathers going to be mild.
All the home work is done,
My football team just won.
The war is over,
poppies in the clover.
Our chicken laid an egg,
Got money don't have to beg.
End of the week, it's Friday.
Girl friend got her Bouquet.
Oh Oh what a Happy Day
On holiday, goin away......
Going to be happy and free,
And Jesus Love's Me.
Oh! My mama, happy mother’s day
You are the greatest mother I have ever had
You are my mother today
You will be my mother tomorrow
You are always my mother
You will forever be my mother
Thank you my mother for bringing me into this world
Thank you my mother for taking care of me in your womb
Thank you my mother caring for me as a toddler
Thank you my mother for feeding me since I was a baby
Thank you my mother for all the clothes you bought for me
Thank you my mother for teaching me good manners at home
Thank you my mother for sending me to school
Thank you my mother for supervising my homework
Thank you my mother for ensuring I eat before going to school
Thank you my mother for all the regular pocket money
Thank you my mother for liking my friends
Thank you my mother for all the everyday advices
My mother always remind me that fingers are not equal
As I grow up, I have seen the correlation of this analogy
To many human beings, neighbors, societies and nationalities
Oh! My mama, thank you for your words of wisdom
My mother taught me many things that I have never read in books
Thank you my mother for all your guiding philosophies
Oh! My mama, I sincerely wish everyday could be Mother’s Day
One day in a year is not enough to thank my wonderful mother
Oh! My mama, I will forever be your child
Oh! My mama, you will eternally be my mother
Thank you my mother for being my best friend
Thank you my mother for being my trusted adviser
I honestly wish you HAPPY MOTHER’S DAY!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause i get to hear your lies
i'm so happy
surprise!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause you tell lies on me
i'm so happy
see?
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause you call me names
i'm so happy
i'v fame!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause you break your promises
i'm so happy
i'm joyous!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause you gave me some attention
i'm so happy
i'm in heaven!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause i get to be used
i'm so happy
i'm amused!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause you spare me a few minutes
i'm so happy
i must be nuts!
oh yes, i'm so happy
cause you let me love you
i'm so happy
i'm through with you!
oh yes, if i was so happy
cause of you
i'll be happier
now without you!
Happy the man to whom his God
No more imputes his sin,
But, washed in the Redeemer's blood,
Hath made his garments clean.
Happy beyond expression he
Who debts are thus discharged;
And from the guilty bondage free,
He feels his soul enlarged.
His spirit hates deceit and lies,
His words are all sincere;
He guards his heart, he guards his eyes,
To keep his conscience clear.
While I my inward guilt suppressed,
No quiet could I find;
Thy wrath lay burning in my breast,
And racked my tortured mind.
Then I confessed my troubled thoughts,
My secret sins revealed;
Thy pard'ning grace forgave my faults,
Thy grace my pardon sealed.
This shall invite thy saints to pray;
When like a raging flood
Temptations rise, our strength and stay
Is a forgiving God.
535
She's happy, with a new Content—
That feels to her—like Sacrament—
She's busy—with an altered Care—
As just apprenticed to the Air—
She's tearful—if she weep at all—
For blissful Causes—Most of all
That Heaven permit so meek as her—
To such a Fate—to Minister.
How can I then return in happy plight
That am debarred the benefit of rest?
When day's oppression is not eased by night,
But day by night, and night by day oppressed?
And each, though enemies to either's reign,
Do in consent shake hands to torture me,
The one by toil, the other to complain
How far I toil, still farther off from thee.
I tell the day, to please him, thou art bright
And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven;
So flatter I the swart-complexioned night,
When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.
But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
And night doth nightly make grief's length seem stronger.
A happy family is one blessed by God!
Both parents slog all life for their children;
And children honor parents, without rod;
All walk united en way to Heaven.
A happy family lives in piety;
Their home is warm and welcomes everyone;
They’re satisfied and live with satiety;
There’s time for love, care, work, play, also fun!
A happy family loves its neighbors well;
All share their joys, woes, grief and problems too;
Their faith in God, their smiling faces tell;
With divine aim, all earthly works, they do!
A happy family prays in harmony;
God meets their needs of body, soul, money!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 12-1-2006
Another birthday, God has given you;
’Tis time you thought about your age and health;
God’s love and mercy in life has been true;
Your family and fortitude’s- your wealth.
’Tis time to pray extra: forget the world;
You did your part and duty indeed well;
Protect yourself from injury and cold;
Be wise: take rest and do not become ill.
Remember that you aren’t young anymore;
Your frame is frail and dangers lurk round you;
Your will-power isn’t as strong as before;
A long life-span comes only to a few.
‘Wish you a Happy Birthday, ’ dear Maama!
God be with you in your earthly drama!
From,
Mercy, Celestine, Cathy and Diana
Copyright by Dr John Celes 18-1-2006
Your birthday is a special day to you,
That brings fond memories of your earthly birth,
And thoughts of expectations high, anew;
It is a day you grow older with mirth!
With each birthday, you feel wiser and bright:
That success in your life is somewhat near;
You make your mind to continue your fight,
And try to live your life without much fear.
’Tis good to celebrate one more birthday;
Thank God for His kindness, protection, love;
Abide in Him and fervently do pray;
Our earthly life should markedly improve!
But never feel sadder on your birthday;
Feel proud to walk beside God in His way.
7-5-2002
Happiness. Can’t say I’ve ever had it.
Once I met a gleaming happy person,
He was beaming as he asked me to sit,
Said he would tell me how to have some fun.
Said he never worried at all for others,
Said he never cared for the world at all,
Said no man in the world was his brother
Said he never cared for the ones who fall.
Said you can’t be happy with that worry,
Said to be happy, to do as he said.
Said life is short and gone in a hurry,
Said no one remembers you when you’re dead.
So I told him then I’d rather be sad,
He wasn’t happy, instead he was Mad.
Happy in sleep, waking content to languish,
Embracing clouds by night; in daytime, mourn;
All things I loath save her and mine own anguish,
Pleas'd in my hurt inured to live forlorn.
Nought do I crave but love, death, or my Lady,
Hoarse with crying mercy, mercy yet my merit;
So man vows and prayers e'er made I,
That now at length t'yield, mere pity were it.
But still the Hydra of my cares renewing,
Revives new sorrows of her fresh disdaining;
Still must I go the summer winds pursuing,
Finding no end nor period of my paining.
Wail all my life, my griefs do touch so nearly,
And thus I live, because I love her dearly.
Sweet dreams and happy memories,
A love that's good and true;
A home to care for tenderly;
A song to sing that's new
Sweet dreams and happy memories
And friends to join in mirth
Some tears to give to those who die,
And smiles to greet each birth.
Sweet dreams and happy memories,
To win a game or two.
The faith to know that Spring will come,
The strength to wait it through.
Sweet dreams and happy memories,
To do what there's to do
For joy is living day to day,
To make sweet dreams come true.
How happy is he born or taught,
That serveth not another's will;
Whose armour is his honest thought,
And simple truth his highest skill;
Whose passions not his masters are;
Whose soul is still prepar'd for death
Untied unto the world with care
Of princes' grace or vulgar breath;
Who envies none whom chance doth raise,
Or vice; who never understood
The deepest wounds are given by praise,
By rule of state, but not of good;
Who hath his life from rumours freed;
Whose conscience is his strong retreat;
Whose state can neither flatterers feed,
Nor ruins make accusers great;
Who God doth late and early pray,
More of his grace than goods to send,
And entertains the harmless day
With a well-chosen book or friend.
This man is free from servile bands
Of hope to rise or fear to fall;
Lord of himself, though not of lands;
And having nothing, yet hath all.
I saw this day sweet flowers grow thick --
But not one like the child did pick.
I heard the packhounds in green park --
But no dog like the child heard bark.
I heard this day bird after bird --
But not one like the child has heard.
A hundred butterflies saw I --
But not one like the child saw fly.
I saw the horses roll in grass --
But no horse like the child saw pass.
My world this day has lovely been --
But not like what the child has seen.
AFTER these vernal rains
That we so warmly sought,
Dear wife, see how our plains
With blessings sweet are fraught!
We cast our distant gaze
Far in the misty blue;
Here gentle love still strays,
Here dwells still rapture true.
Thou seest whither go
Yon pair of pigeons white,
Where swelling violets blow
Round sunny foliage bright.
'Twas there we gather'd first
A nosegay as we roved;
There into flame first burst
The passion that we proved.
Yet when, with plighted troth,
The priest beheld us fare
Home from the altar both,
With many a youthful pair,--
Then other moons had birth,
And many a beauteous sun,
Then we had gain'd the earth
Whereon life's race to run.
A hundred thousand fold
The mighty bond was seal'd;
In woods, on mountains cold,
In bushes, in the field,
Within the wall, in caves,
And on the craggy height,
And love, e'en o'er the waves,
Bore in his tube the light.
Contented we remain'd,
We deem'd ourselves a pair;
'Twas otherwise ordain'd,
For, lo! a third was there;
A fourth, fifth, sixth appear'd,
And sat around our board;
And now the plants we've rear'd
High o'er our heads have soar'd!
How fair and pleasant looks,
On yonder beauteous spot,
Embraced by poplar-brooks,
The newly-finish'd cot!
Who is it there that sits
In that glad home above?
Is't not our darling Fritz
With his own darling love?
Beside yon precipice,
Whence pent-up waters steal,
And leaving the abyss,
Fall foaming through the wheel,
Though people often tell
Of millers' wives so fair,
Yet none can e'er excel
Our dearest daughter there!
Yet where the thick-set green
Stands round yon church and sad,
Where the old fir-tree's seen
Alone tow'rd heaven to nod,--
'Tis there the ashes lie
Of our untimely dead;
From earth our gaze on high
By their blest memory's led.
See how yon hill is bright
With billowy-waving arms!
The force returns, whose might
Has vanquished war's alarms.
Who proudly hastens here
With wreath-encircled brow?
'Tis like our child so dear
Thus Charles comes homeward now.
That dearest honour'd guest
Is welcom'd by the bride;
She makes the true one blest,
At the glad festal tide.
And ev'ry one makes haste
To join the dance with glee;
While thou with wreaths hast graced
The youngest children three.
To sound of flute and horn
The time appears renew'd,
When we, in love's young morn,
In the glad dance upstood;
And perfect bliss I know
Ere the year's course is run,
For to the font we go
With grandson and with son!
It's when the birds go piping and the daylight slowly breaks,
That, clamoring for his dinner, our precious baby wakes;
Then it's sleep no more for baby, and it's sleep no more for me,
For, when he wants his dinner, why it's dinner it must be!
And of that lacteal fluid he partakes with great ado,
While gran'ma laughs,
And gran'pa laughs,
And wife, she laughs,
And I - well, I laugh, too!
You'd think, to see us carrying on about that little tad,
That, like as not, that baby was the first we'd ever had;
But, sakes alive! he isn't, yet we people make a fuss
As if the only baby in the world had come to us!
And, morning, noon, and night-time, whatever he may do,
Gran'ma, she laughs,
Gran'pa, he laughs,
Wife, she laughs,
And I, of course, laugh, too!
But once - a likely spell ago - when that poor little chick
From teething or from some such ill of infancy fell sick,
You wouldn't know us people as the same that went about
A-feelin' good all over, just to hear him crow and shout;
And, though the doctor poohed our fears and said he'd pull him through,
Old gran'ma cried,
And gran'pa cried,
And wife, she cried,
And I - yes, I cried, too!
It makes us all feel good to have a baby on the place,
With his everlastin' crowing and his dimpling, dumpling face;
The patter of his pinky feet makes music everywhere,
And when he shakes those fists of his, good-by to every care!
No matter what our trouble is, when he begins to coo,
Old gran'ma laughs,
And gran'pa laughs,
Wife, she laughs,
And I - you bet, I laugh, too!
Into the rose gold westland, its yellow prairies roll,
World of the bison's freedom, home of the Indian's soul.
Roll out, O seas! in sunlight bathed,
Your plains wind-tossed, and grass enswathed.
Farther than vision ranges, farther than eagles fly,
Stretches the land of beauty, arches the perfect sky,
Hemm'd through the purple mists afar
By peaks that gleam like star on star.
Fringing the prairie billows, fretting horizon's line,
Darkly green are slumb'ring wildernesses of pine,
Sleeping until the zephyrs throng
To kiss their silence into song.
Whispers freighted with odour swinging into the air,
Russet needles as censers swing to an altar, where
The angels' songs are less divine
Than duo sung twixt breeze and pine.
Laughing into the forest, dimples a mountain stream,
Pure as the airs above it, soft as a summer dream,
O! Lethean spring thou'rt only found
Within this ideal hunting ground.
Surely the great Hereafter cannot be more than this,
Surely we'll see that country after Time's farewell kiss.
Who would his lovely faith condole?
Who envies not the Red-skin's soul,
Sailing into the cloud land, sailing into the sun,
Into the crimson portals ajar when life is done?
O! dear dead race, my spirit too
Would fain sail westward unto you.
O FAR away, and far away,
The Happy Islands lie;
In bluer seas of calm than these,
Beneath a bluer sky.
The sea, a shining girdle, winds
Round cliff and cape and bay,
With flash and gleam, and there they dream,
O far and far away!
Upon a rim of sapphire sea,
As some sweet girl might lean
Her breast of snow, my Islands glow,
All exquisite and green.
The cliffs like shining ramparts rise,
The golden beaches gleam;
And thro' the hills sing silver rills,
And cataract and stream.
Bright in a mist of leaves, on height
And headland, waving high,
The flame-flowers lean, and burn between
Splendours of sea and sky.
The still, bright forests, massed and green,
Like painted woodlands glow
In shade and shine; and belts of pine
Climb up to meet the snow.
No burning drought with fevered breath,
Nor blight of bitter hail,
Blackens the yield of fruitful field,
Nor sears the flowery vale.
Ah me! my Isles! my Happy Isles!
The Isles that nurtured me;
My heart is fain to cross again
Those leagues of purple sea,—
To watch at sunset from the hills
The headlands fade in mist,
'Mid changing glows, of gold and rose
And Bloom-of-Amethyst.
I tread to-day a sunless strand
Under sad skies of grey,
But summer smiles in my fair Isles
So far and far away.
Oh, come with me to the Happy Isles
In the golden haze off yonder,
Where the song of the sun-kissed breeze beguiles,
And the ocean loves to wander.
Fragrant the vines that mantle those hills,
Proudly the fig rejoices;
Merrily dance the virgin rills,
Blending their myriad voices.
Our herds shall fear no evil there,
But peacefully feed and rest them;
Neither shall serpent nor prowling bear
Ever come there to molest them.
Neither shall Eurus, wanton bold,
Nor feverish drouth distress us,
But he that compasseth heat and cold
Shall temper them both to bless us.
There no vandal foot has trod,
And the pirate hosts that wander
Shall never profane the sacred sod
Of those beautiful Isles out yonder.
Never a spell shall blight our vines,
Nor Sirius blaze above us,
But you and I shall drink our wines
And sing to the loved that love us.
So come with me where Fortune smiles
And the gods invite devotion,--
Oh, come with me to the Happy Isles
In the haze of that far-off ocean!
THERE'S many a strong farmer
Whose heart would break in two,
If he could see the townland
That we are riding to;
Boughs have their fruit and blossom
At all times of the year;
Rivers are running over
With red beer and brown beer.
An old man plays the bagpipes
In a golden and silver wood;
Queens, their eyes blue like the ice,
Are dancing in a crowd.
The little fox he murmured,
'O what of the world's bane?'
The sun was laughing sweetly,
The moon plucked at my rein;
But the little red fox murmured,
'O do not pluck at his rein,
He is riding to the townland
That is the world's bane.'
When their hearts are so high
That they would come to blows,
They unhook rheir heavy swords
From golden and silver boughs;
But all that are killed in battle
Awaken to life again.
It is lucky that their story
Is not known among men,
For O, the strong farmers
That would let the spade lie,
Their hearts would be like a cup
That somebody had drunk dry.
The little fox he murmured,
'O what of the world's bane?'
The sun was laughing sweetly,
The moon plucked at my rcin;
But the little red fox murmured,
'O do not pluck at his rein,
He is riding to the townland
That is the world's bane.'
Michael will unhook his trumpet
From a bough overhead,
And blow a little noise
When the supper has been spread.
Gabriel will come from the water
With a fish-tail, and talk
Of wonders that have happened
On wet roads where men walk.
And lift up an old horn
Of hammered silver, and drink
Till he has fallen asleep
Upon the starry brink.
The little fox he murmured,
'O what of the world's bane?'
The sun was laughing sweetly,
The moon plucked at my rein;
But the little red fox murmured.
'O do not pluck at his rein,
He is riding to the townland
That is the world's bane.'
MARTIAL, the things that do attain
The happy life be these, I find:--
The richesse left, not got with pain;
The fruitful ground, the quiet mind;
The equal friend; no grudge, no strife;
No charge of rule, nor governance;
Without disease, the healthful life;
The household of continuance;
The mean diet, no delicate fare;
True wisdom join'd with simpleness;
The night discharged of all care,
Where wine the wit may not oppress.
The faithful wife, without debate;
Such sleeps as may beguile the night:
Contented with thine own estate
Ne wish for death, ne fear his might.
THE woods of Arcady are dead,
And over is their antique joy;
Of old the world on dreaming fed;
Grey Truth is now her painted toy;
Yet still she turns her restless head:
But O, sick children of the world,
Of all the many changing things
In dreary dancing past us whirled,
To the cracked tune that Chronos sings,
Words alone are certain good.
Where are now the warring kings,
Word be-mockers? -- By the Rood,
Where are now the watring kings?
An idle word is now their glory,
By the stammering schoolboy said,
Reading some entangled story:
The kings of the old time are dead;
The wandering earth herself may be
Only a sudden flaming word,
In clanging space a moment heard,
Troubling the endless reverie.
Then nowise worship dusty deeds,
Nor seek, for this is also sooth,
To hunger fiercely after truth,
Lest all thy toiling only breeds
New dreams, new dreams; there is no truth
Saving in thine own heart.  Seek, then,
No learning from the starry men,
Who follow with the optic glass
The whirling ways of stars that pass --
Seek, then, for this is also sooth,
No word of theirs -- the cold star-bane
Has cloven and rent their hearts in twain,
And dead is all their human truth.
Go gather by the humming sea
Some twisted, echo-harbouring shell.
And to its lips thy story tell,
And they thy comforters will be.
Rewording in melodious guile
Thy fretful words a little while,
Till they shall singing fade in ruth
And die a pearly brotherhood;
For words alone are certain good:
Sing, then, for this is also sooth.
I must be gone:  there is a grave
Where daffodil and lily wave,
And I would please the hapless faun,
Buried under the sleepy ground,
With mirthful songs before the dawn.
His shouting days with mirth were crowned;
And still I dream he treads the lawn,
Walking ghostly in the dew,
Pierced by my glad singing through,
My songs of old earth's dreamy youth:
But ah! she dreams not now; dream thou!
For fair are poppies on the brow:
Dream, dream, for this is also sooth.
To be happy
Is to be happy with oneself.
To be happy
Is to be free with your thoughts and aspirations.
To be happy with oneself
Is to have that inner peace of mind acceptable to change,
Being able to play your part in life's forever changing game.
To be sad with life
Is to be discourage with life.
Do not be discouraged
Be encouraged
To have no cares no worries.
So be happy
Life is a colorful growing tree
Which leaves change colors everyday.
Find your color and grow your tree
To be all you can be.
I want to speak of happy things,
Like flying on love's wings,
Like sitting beneath the palm trees
As we talk about the birds and the bees.
I want to be happy again,
To remember things from way back when,
To speak excitedly of here and there
Knowing that I truly haven't been anywhere.
I don't want to worry,
I don't want to fret,
I want to be as care free
As I can possibly get.
But in this world I live,
Nothing seems to give,
Happiness is just a word,
And a life without fear
Is just plain absurd.
Bring back my email,
Lordy, bring it back.
I never meant to send it,
I never meant to press
That press key and I never meant
To let him see
My wildest wish, sent hurtling
Through the ether like
A comet, trailing harmful fire,
Streaking like a rocket
Whizzing and shrieking and
Exploding in the air
For all to see,
For him to see,
And now he knows
And now he knows
And yes I wanted to,
He needed it,
He must have known,
His face blanched
Like the moon.
Are you happy right now or sad?
Are you bitter about your present condition?
You wonder what is wrong with your life
You wonder why others are happy
And question why some are so sad
Are happy people born that way?
Or happiness is a state of mind
What can make you happy?
Will having more money make you happy?
How much money do you need to make you happy?
If you are single and not happy!
Will having a new lover make you happy?
Will getting married make you happy?
If you are married, and not happy!
Will having more children make you happy?
Will sleeping with other people make you happy?
If you are a professional and not happy!
Will changing your profession make you happy?
What can make you happy?
Will getting drunk everyday make you happy?
Will taking a new drug make you happy?
Will buying a new car make you happy?
What can make you happy?
Will moving to a bigger house make you happy?
Will been promoted at work make you happy?
Will been the head of your organization
Make you happy
What can make you happy?
Always remember that what makes
You happy can make the others sad
Why can't I be happy
when the world is at my door?
I have all that I'll ever need.
I couldn't ask for more.
Then tell me why I'm empty.
Why do I feel so low?
I wonder what is wrong with me
and if I'll ever know.
My brain say's 'stop debating..
you over-think too much! '
But, my heart just screams and begs for things
like time and things of such.
The little things I'm needing.
Just little, thoughtful things,
not the fancy houses
or the cars and diamond rings.
Maybe I'm just greedy.
I should be satisfied.
So I will do just like I should.
My feelings I will hide.
Perhaps I am too different.
I feel my heart can't show.
I fear I'll always be this way...
deep in sorrow when no one knows.
When did you cease to love, then hate, yourself?
What terrible event? How long ago?
What slight misunderstanding, view of self,
that led to fading love, then bitter hate?
What silent judgment of yourself, believed,
without a witness, umpire, counsel, friend?
Where was that childhood friend you loved, called 'God',
who knew you better than you knew yourself,
and understood your every thought and act?
What black and vicious weed grew secretly
while all your thoughts - you thought - were of the Good?
What demon whispered sweet and viciously?
Alas, no clue as yet. The only way,
to love that self that never went away.
I hate the way you tease me,
I hate the way you walk.
I hate the way you look at me,
I hate the way you talk.
I hate the way you run around,
I hate the way you speak.
I hate the way you write your words,
I hate the way you greet.
I hate the way you srut around
like you have it all,
but most of all
I hate the way I don't hate you at all.
I hate how you left me without any sign,
I hate that you moved on without saying goodbye,
I hate how your smile makes me give in,
I hate that your always making me want to caress your skin,
I hate how you can't talk to me when she's around,
I hate that when she leaves you look me up and down,
I hate how you made a mark in my heart,
I hate that you let us drift apart,
I hate how when I say I hate you I don't really mean it,
But most of all....
I hate how you know I can't hate you.....
And never will.
I hate myself for hurting you
The pain and heartache i put you through
I killed the love that we once had
I took everything good and turned it bad
I hate myself for hurting you
Your pain i wish i could undo
In the end all we did was shout
I chewed you up and spat you out
I hate myself for hurting you
And killing the love that we once knew
I'm sorry for not giving you the best of me
I'm sorry things aren't how they used to be
I hate myself for hurting you
The pain and heartache i put you through
I know that i made you scream and cry
These things i simply can't deny
I hate myself for hurting you
Your pain i wish i could undo
I didn't mean to treat you like dirt
I can't imagine how much it must hurt
I hate myself for hurting you
And killing the love that we once knew
I know there is nothing i can say or do
But i'm so so sorry for hurting you
a girl named hate
stood at heavens gate
just wishing to be let in
she breathed out sin
and they shuned her
her pain a blur
she walked away
to try again another day
a girl named hate
stood at hells gate
she breathed out sin
and they let her in
they did not judge her
they loved her for sure
and there she will stay
day after day
that girl named hate
broke away from fate
she stayed were she fit in
she stayed with her sin
they did not hate her
they befriended her
things usualy turn out that way
when you tell some one to go away
Reality and not the dreams
It has to be like sun beams
To work for it like a team
It will come out like music with theme
There is no use to pass on the blame
It is reality and not the game
It has some reasons to materialize
You must have enough reasons to realize
Go deep and think over
Don’t find excuses or cover
You may find the answer
It may be felt only by fewer
Don’t loose hope and courage
You have to try hard and manage
You may be capable in your young age
Try to control it without resorting to rage
Infuse it with real colors of life
The world may be war torn and full with strife
You may have to walk on the edge of knife
Share the secrets with you lovely wife
Carry it on with so much of joy
Life as it stands for enough to enjoy
It may be contentment that is not to be rushed
Rest all are illusions not to be counted and pushed
If this is a game of hide and seek,
I’m over here.
If this is a fairground ride,
I want to get off.
If this is a horror movie,
I’m struck with fear.
If this is a play,
I want my money back.
If this is a TV program,
I’m turning over.
If this is a punishment,
I’d have preferred a smack.
If this is a nightmare,
I want it to stop.
If this is a game,
I don’t want to play.
If this is a bubble,
I want it to pop.
If this is a story,
I’m turning the page.
If this is a fight,
I’m turning away.
If this is a kidnap,
I’m trapped in the cage.
If this is a silly attempt to upset me,
Take a bow.
If this is a life,
End it now.
It’s a love hate relationship
It’s been like this from the start
He lied to me, tricked my heart
Took my innocence and left me to have no choice
Took control of me his was the only voice
But, now I must sadly regret
He had lustful eyes the day we met
This is a love hate relationship
This is where its at
I want to lay down so bad
And if I don’t, he’ll push me onto my back
If I try to resist the house will echo a loud smack
He talks to me like I’m his property
He touched me like he paid the fee
And when we argue
He holds up his ring
Tries to explain what marriage means
It’s a love hate relationship
He tells me respect is what I lack
And if I laugh
It’ll be nothing but a blood bath
I’m not ashamed to admit I was wrong
And now the nights feel so long
It’s a love hate relationship
I hate to love him
And he loves to hate me
His hostile eyes full of rage
His anger builds up as he takes the stage
I go through what we had
I realize there is no reason to get mad
One day I’ll just get even
Hurt him till he’s on his knees pleading
Look at what we have
Common now this abuse is just sad
I let go
Yea, this is the end
A love hate relationship will now just be my past
Because that kind of relationship could never last
Is it getting clearer...
For those who fear to be themselves.
They who have entertained disrespect,
To the point where none is left.
Inspected in depth...
Or quests requested!
Blinded they are like fools on crack!
Using tools of fools to keep themselves back.
Blinded they are like fools on crack.
Or a black cat who can't stop giving 'bad' vibes,
An image to attack!
Blinded they are like fools on crack!
Seeking a shoulder to cry on...
And a pat on their backs!
Blinded they are like fools on crack.
Trying in doped slickness,
But losing themselves...
With weakened backbones attacked!
Is it getting clearer...
For those who fear to be themselves.
With a fear that endears them,
With a love to hate!
Berating unappreciated wisdom at stake!
Is it best that I not love neighbors
because I don't love my self
very well?
Regardless of what I do to or for myself
I think I'll just love
my neighbors
not even direct it perhaps
just love
Love! feel it don't think it
love
love
lovee
lover
lovely
loving
love
Daddy, I hate you
Daddy, I love you
Daddy, I really don't have a clue
But, that one time I flew
But, you didn't care
It isn't fair
You never share
What is with you? ?
Do I need to hit you with my shoe?
That is covered with dog doo
You never made me happy
You always said my hair was nappy
Don't you love me
I love you
Wait, no I don't!
I hate you
You made me feel blue
Please, go away
I'm not even gonna play
Or, i'll make you out of clay
Don't delay
Just go away
I am writing this alive and with a fever,
'cause I needs to sweat out the virus
and breathe calmly without choking, for once.
I am writing this and hoping that its meaning,
my meaning, THE meaning
will mean something to you now.
That's why all poets and madmen
scrape together enough bitterness
to address their anti-love-letters to ' you'-
as though the reader, any random lover,
is the one intended to be pinpointed, blacklisted  then destroyed.
You know them, the ones always crying,
asking for spare sense to make change...
' I didn't see this coming'
It's so sad how some people
are just innocent bystanders
reading the morning newspaper-
when they just happen to look up to see
reality smacking them upside the head.
'you've got the wrong man'
only because they right man's dead.
So, I won't say I love you 'cause
those words mean more than something now-
and I won't say I miss you 'cause
it gets lost in translation.
But if I know you like I think I knew you,
you'll be reading between the lines right about now,
sipping your morning coffee and thinking
of something far more important than the sound of my voice.
But I know you'll read this 'cause
there are a million other fish in the sea
and everyone of them are titled ' you'
and they act and look just like 'you'
I hope you don't mind
I can't quite bring myself to address this to your name.
Have I ever hurt you?
Hit you?
Pierced you?
Have I ever made you cry?
Scream?
Want to die?
Have I given you shit that screws up your life?
Like drugs, or alcohol, that makes you high?
Have I handed a dagger to you?
Point a gun at your head?
Tie a string around your neck?
Leave you alone with some cold crimson instrument?
Have I ever asked you to sell yourself short?
Did I tell you something was impossible?
Have I ever told you ‘dude, you’re sucha piece of shit’?
Have I done or said something,
To make you want to hurt yourself?
Have I ever put shit on your shoulders?
Prepared you for the slaughters?
Have I said to you
‘there is no way your gunna make it through this life’?
Do I make you think life sucks?
That everything has locks?
Have I made you feel lonely?
Hopeless?
Or immense negativity?
Have I threatened to kill you?
Beat you?
Hurt you?
Made you shed tears?
Blood?
Prayers?
Have I ever made you scream from inner pain?
Deep fears,
That can’t be slain?
Do I hate you?
.................Of this I know
as sky triumphs over rain,
the central theme in man,
of this I know
this feeling eats one alive,
leaves one without gut,
without eyes,
without name.
Indulge in it not
lest you are left half-eaten
in man's time, and God's eye.
Your poems are vapidity,
thin as steam
and without the substance
of the most fleeting thought;
your poems are nothingness,
as anger is nothingness.
Envy is poison.
What happens to
the color green
in other segments,
in other forms?
There is a repulsiveness,
there is a strange pain,
to kill, to kill,
to grow spite
like spite is its own
gnarled tree of life;
evil green eyes
come to no special place,
no awareness now.
If the earth gives in, soil and flesh,
evil green eyes have buried themselves, again.
Love is not hate
Hate is not the answer to everything
Don’t burn your neighbor’s house down
Just because she comes from the Middle East
She is just the same as you
Don’t bring bombs to Afghanistan or Iraq
Bring flowers and love
Because we were created equal not to be looked as alien
We might come from different cultures or different places
It doesn't matter! ! !
We all are humans
We all have 2 hands 2 feet 10 fingers in all
Although we all may be different looking
We are all from the same race
The Human Race
Don't you just hate it when you lose control?
You try so hard to keep your mouth shut
Then some idiot pushes you over the edge -
And your mouth runs away with you?
Don't you just hate it when you do your best
To be open and nonjudgemental
Then something snaps and the bitch comes out
And you end up looking like a fool?
I guess it's just human nature at fault
Am I really that shallow and crass?
But I tell you some days it's all I can do
Not to kick some dumb jerk in the ass!
Oh..................that felt good! ! ! !
Hard is the love couples share as they try to reveal the love they share-
The words aren't there, hard to find, hard to seek. Love is hard and also blind when you try to hide,  and when you know its there.
Love is hard the up and downs, highs and lows, tares and snares
Hard to show and let them know the ones who know nothing about you
or the ones you can't stand are the ones who you should love
If you had show some form of love that one person you needed, was not
there now you are should've, could've, would've
because there was no love in your heart, hard love is the main thing of -
this world we live in
Love is hard in the place we call earth, Love isn't found not from
our indiviual peers, but from the citizens of America
Harder is love, hate comes easy
Is love hard because we don't know how or is love harder because
we don't care?
Love is blind- which is hard, hard to give, or hard to recieve
Which is harder Love or Hate?
I say love because we know its there but we simply ignore the presence of love, and hide in the darkness of the shadows of the issues of the world, only to hope on the light of LoVe.
Just think of hate
Consciously relate
Try to valuate
And think of fate
It shall provide
And divide
Your opinion
For disunion
It burns you from within
Pushes to no more gain
It has restless background
Hat is seen and found
Such is impact
And it is very much fact
We lead hostile world
And invite miseries untold
Why not hate a "hate"?
Why not greet and invite?
You will have sound sleep
That shall always have cheers to keep
drive me crazy
make me insane
all these emotions
run through my brain.
you make me feel
all these things
i want to hate you
but its not happening.
you annoy me
but make me smile.
you have an arrogance about you
which makes me want to hit you.
i look at you
feel your stare
i try to ignore
these feelings i bear.
emotions clash
hate and love
can you feel both
things at once?
is it possible? is it wrong?
to want to hate
and love you at once?
Hate is a feeling that boils with rage.
Hate is a feeling you lose with age.
Hate is a feeling that eats inside.
Hate is a feeling we all should hide.
Hate is the feeling we dont understand.
Hate is the feeling of losing our stand.
Hate is the feeling of a thing called fear.
Hate is the feeling that hurts in here.
Hate is a feeling that grows some more.
Hate is a feeling, what good is it for?
Hate is a feeling that you have too.
Hate is a feeling I have for you.
Hate by my side,
Wagging his tail
And wanting to be worshiped.
Love by my side,
Walking with stealth
And wanting to be given.
Hate runs in front,
And points which way
Biting and clawing to have his will.
Love by my side,
Walking still so quietly
And wanting to be given.
We come to a traveler
-Hate, Love, and I-
Who is burdened and hurt.
Hate runs on
Love stands by his side
And I am-in the middle-trying to make my choice.
Suferring is what i come from
Suffering is what ill cause
What was once considered scum
Now has the world in his jaws
This is the year of endles pain....
Hatred, malice, and revenge
As I, your new king, takes my reign
My poor sister will be avenged
Raped, beaten, and killed
She didnt desevre it at five
My lust for blood will be fulfilled
Noone at all will be left alive
There once was a little swine
he was partial to blueberry wine
and he had a fat mother
who had smothered his father
someone said you are out of line.
And the mother was really huge
and she dreamed of an oily deluge
where she would lose it all
and become a sweet doll
but the God of all fat was a scrooge.
So she went on a rampage to stab
all those thin ones who did not have flab
but she was so inept
that she finally wept
and she hoped for the gift of the gab.
But the weather had turned rather sour
it was raining from shower to shower
so she called to the crowd
that today is allowed
real fighting in mud, woman power.
But the  people  who'd smelled her objected
she was fat, had completely neglected
her old body at that
and she was rather fat
so she found that they all had defected.
When the stars came out shining  in gold
and this fatso had done what she's told
she just jumped from the castle
to avoid  further hassle
she had always seen others as old.
What this proves is the subject of hate
is so futile to use on a mate
if you hate you are dumb
they should flog your old bum
but I think that we may be too late.
Hate me when I hate myself
Hate me when I love myself
Just hate me you know you do
Hate me when I say I do
Blame me for every thing
Blame me for all the lies
Just blame me when something’s wrong
Blame me when you need to
Fight me on everything
Fight me when you’re mad at her
Fighting me makes it ok
So fight me every single day
Love me what I love myself
Love me when I hate myself
Just love me you know you do
Love me when you say you do
I try to hide
But you just keep finding me
I try to run
But you are the one I bump
I try to forget
But you just smile and say
'Trying to run from yourself
Isn't going to get you anywhere'
I hide from myself
I run from myself
I try to forget myself
But when I look in a mirror
You stare at me with a smirk
But all I know is
I have to run
but how can you lose yourself
easy
Just kill yourself
I hate myself
My enemy came nigh,
And I
Stared fiercely in his face.
My lips went writhing back in a grimace,
And stern I watched him with a narrow eye.
Then, as I turned away, my enemy,
That bitter heart and savage, said to me:
"Some day, when this is past,
When all the arrows that we have are cast,
We may ask one another why we hate,
And fail to find a story to relate.
It may seem then to us a mystery
That we should hate each other."
Thus said he,
And did not turn away,
Waiting to hear what I might have to say,
But I fled quickly, fearing had I stayed
I might have kissed him as I would a maid.
Has nothing
Anticipates loss
Terrible attitude
Eager to destruct
I hate the way you make me cry
Tying knots around me
Forever binding me to this
Feeling of hollowness
I hate the way your screams
Echo inside me constantly blinding me
Deafening my sense of certainty
With your hurt
I hate it when glass shatters
Leaving pieces of my sanity splattered
On white carpets and Formica cabinets
And when the roof has caved in and crashes over my head
Crumbling down to my nail marred feet
I sweep it neatly up
And hide it darkened corners
With all the other forgotten martyrs
Left praying for the worlds sins
In a pool of crimson
I hate how you make me hate myself
Eroding and excavating my goodness
With your foolishness
False pride mixed with alcoholic breath
Triggering my gage reflexes with your familiar
Sour stench
I hate to love you
Every single vessel that allows you to be
Every tiny molecule
Atom and cell
That beats down on my shoulders
Like torrential rains suffocating normal functioning
I had a bitter enemy,
His heart to hate he gave,
And when I died he swore that he
Would dance upon my grave;
That he would leap and laugh because
A livid corpse was I,
And that's the reason why I was
In no great haste to die.
And then - such is the quirk of fate,
One day with joy I read,
Despite his vitalizing hate
My enemy was dead.
Maybe the poison in his heart
Had helped to haste his doom:
He was not spared till I depart
To spit upon my tomb.
The other day I chanced to go
To where he lies alone.
'Tis easy to forgive a foe
When he is dead and gone. . . .
Poor devil! Now his day is done,
(Though bright it was and brave,)
Yet I am happy there is none
To dance upon my grave.
Somewhere, it must have happened first,
The fear, the anger,
The helpless feeling of guilt.
Somewhere, it must have happened first,
The sarcasm, the malice,
The wearied feeling of shame.
Somewhere, it must have happened first,
The desertion, the anarchy,
The drained feeling of alone.
Somewhere, it must have happened first,
The lost love, the lost faith,
The stoic feeling of the end
Somewhere, it must have happened first,
Somewhere, it must have.
I hate myself for this
I hate this person I've become
I hate who I am and who I thought I would never be
I hate my father for making me this way
I hate the selfishness I have now become
I hate the endless pain I put people through
I hate the way I hide myself in this pain
I hate the crazy world Im living in called my life
I hate when my friends suffer because of my problems
I hate the fact that everything I've worked
so hard not to be is what defines me
I hate that people cant see who I really am
I hate that my heart is broken with no one to put it back together
They say hate is another fear
A fear to not love
A fear to not belong
A fear to not be here
A fear that is wrong
I'm consumed with more than enough
I feel it all the time
More than the feeling of love
More than being afraid
Dark thoughts make me cold
Making it a part of me
Until I grow old
Until I can no longer see
I let the evil within
Take over my soul
By commiting this sin
I pay a greater toll
Slowly, now I'm fading
Blurry and freezy
It hurts to be hating.
I started out expressing my thoughts...
pouring out my heart and soul
i never planned to look around
i just needed a pad to write my thoughts
but papers get thrown away and misplaced
this site was perfect...just perfect..it felt like home
i thought i could say anything i want
express my ideas without insulting others
refute, argue, agree accordingly
but to never never hate personally
the poser...why because it's not my place
to judge people i don't really know so well
I do rant when poked and provoked
but i don't go chasing the hater
just to dis him all over the board
making me ponder deeply now
I have so much hate inside they say
but never with such passion as they.
(haters) i love it when they hate,
they hate on me because,
i look better and dress better,
but why do haters hate,
haters hate because i still they men,
and make thing want me,
and hate them and,
thats why haters hate me,
why do haters hate you,
you have better things and bigger rings,
fancy thing and material things well,
thats why i love when haters,
hate on me and,
and i tell them to keep hate,
hate on.......
there is so much hate,
and not enough joy
to balance all things out,
and when you get overwhelmed
you just want to shout.
to the heavens above
to the earth below
to everyone around.
but even though you open your mouth,
no one hears a sound.
is it because they were born deaf to the world
or because they choose to be
someone who doesn't give a crap
about what happens to you or me.
i guess what i'm saying is that we need to act,
don't leave it up to fate,
because so many things can go wrong
that we cannot help but hate.
I hate those who hate,
I hate myself for not knowing what to hate,
I hate life,
I hate love,
I hate not knowing of my upcoming strife
I hate not know of my oncoming love,
I hate those who hate,
I hate myself
I'd stop to hate for gold of my weight,
I hate all those with wealth,
I hate those who harm,
I hate those who hurt,
I hate those who use their charm,
To put others in the dirt,
I hate living as I ache,
I hate living in earth wake,
I hate people who hate,
I being the one who must be to forsake
Those who hate, must hate me
Because of thou hate I hate thee,
The point i must make,
Leaving myself without this weight
Is that I love to hate,
And all love hate when you hate what they hate.
You run through my life...
and took me away from my world...
to yours, unknown world...
enjoyed with my feelings as well...
and make my heart to gave up for you...
and kept it to sail into your love...
and liberated my heart from every thing...
and became in love with you with unlimited love...
hate you...
because i love you...
because your love drove me so crazy...
and because it spoke to my heart through your eyes...
and gave me unexpected desires...
which i never thought about it before...
hate you...
because you gave me a feelings...
and thought that you were my certain destiny...
and that you will dance with me under the rain...
and you will take me from among all people...
hate you, because i love you...
and do not know why i love you...
hate you...
because you owned on my heart...
and can`t get it now back from you...
and because you snatched my visual...
and became not see any one except you...
hate you...
because you left me alone...
after my heart gave up to you...
and became so crazy for you...
and lived inside...
in my dreams and wherever i be...
and felt with the happiness...
and suddenly....
saw you while you went away from my life...
to keep me to suffer again with my loneliness...
to suffer my pains as i been before...
and to live again with my tears...
hate you...
because you stole my freedom...
and locked up my heart in your jail...
while i don`t know, which sin i did...
hate you or love you...
i really do not know...
but i wish that i can hate you...
because i still love you...
Hate yourself, cut
Hate yourself, starve
Hate yourself, bleed
Hate yourself, cry
Hate yourself, alone
Hate yourself, scream
Hate yourself, die
I
ate
the
hate
of
my
mate
and
met
my
fate
- June 8,2007
I was born a righteous man
Just like you, I'm a loving man
When you stole my land from me
I began to hate
I began to hate
I began to hate you and your children
I began to hate you and your friends
I began to hate with a passion
Maybe I am simply old fashioned
I feed my kids multiple hate pills
Then send them down the road to kill
This is the  message I want to instil
Hate
Hate without debate
Hate, Hate, Hate
Hate like the darkness
That resents the day
In the land you took away my wealth
Along with my loss went my health
How can a man learn to love and forgive
When you have not returned
What you were never meant to receive
So I began to hate
I began to hate
I began to hate you and your children
I began to hate you and your friends
My children are taught to hate
Obey questions without debate
With their last breathe they dedicate
A moment of hate
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
i dont hate you
like i should
what youve done to me
others would
im not angry
but im not happy either
at least you told me
i just need a breather
i need time to think
about what to do
time to think
of my feelings of you
i love you
i always will
after what you told me
i need time to heal
if we decide
never to speak again
ill love you forever
til the end
im forgiving
no matter why
no matter what
even if i die
i wont live my life
going thru hate
God says'to forgive'
to get thru his gate
one day when your watching
the birds in the sky
remember me
after i have died
so i leave you with
these words from me
I Love You forever
and please forgive me
as i have done you
I had no time to hate, because
The grave would hinder me,
And life was not so ample I
Could finish enmity.
Nor had I time to love, but since
Some industry must be,
The little toil of love, I thought,
Was large enough for me.
Ouch, to cut my finger...
Pain and blood spills and does longly stay and linger.
To give my sliced append-aged digit a much needed bath...
I won't cook for a living, or go to school for typing or even take math.
Math and onions i do not like...
I'd rather have a tooth pulled or be super glued to a seat-less one peddled
down hill travelling brake-less bike.
I'll only eat onions that are totally cooked...I wont go to a restaurant and look on a menu to order it from the waitress, it will never be booked.
I hate diplomacy
Hands are of no use tying,
The heart will find a way to win.
To hurt me
Tie my heart...
Tight enough for my hands not to be able to move.
Tie my heart and I'll be helpless...
Threaten me with pain...
I will hate you
And hurt more than the pain you could have brought me
For never wanting you to win
For not daring to lose...
I'll stay numb
And hate me for it...
But have my way later! ...
i hate it when u look at me
i hate it when u smile ur smile
i hate it when u say hi 2 me and wave
i hate it when u think u noe everything
i hate it when ur with ur friends
and not me
i hate it when u dont say hi
i dont hate u
i just realized that i love u
i just hate it when u dont do these things 2 me
i hate it when ur not around
i hate u
but i love u at the same time
I hate it when you look at me
I hate it when you smile
I hate it when you catch my eye
I hate it when you lie
I hate it when you just walkout
I hate it when you shout
I hate it when you think you know
I hate it when you say hello
I hate it when you think I care
I hate it when you glare
I hate the way you stare
And never look mad
I hate the way you love me
Like I was the only one you had
I hate that I can’t hate you even if I tried
And don’t forget that I only saying all this
b\c I can never hate you
I hate my life and don't ask why
Cause you might think its just a lie
Everyone hates me, Everyone left me
I know that it sounds crazy
But its true, if you can see
Be what you can be
I feel invisible but no one cares
Loneliness is what i cant bare
Tears run down, my eyes start to sting
I'm running out of tears, but i Kept on Crying
No more tears, need to cry more
Blood replaced my tears, but spilling out more
My heart beats slower, my breathing becomes shallow
I fall on the ground, everything becomes blury
I can die right now since no one cares
Yes, that's what I should do
I close my eyes
I'll go to my dreamworld
My heart stops beating
My body stays still, my soul breaks and smiles no more.
Sad and lonely
Depressed
Thinking about suicide
Not just sometimes
But all the time
I write these words in digust
Upon my mirror
In my own blood
Glaring back at me
I hate myself and I wanna die
Pent up emotions
Ripping me apart
Inside my head is a endless chant
Bugging and never ending
Urging me to just go ahead and give up
Today, tomorrow, and yesterday
Always it's the same
I can't stop it
Not even sure that I want to
All I know for sure is
I hate myself and I wanna die
So many times
I've thought about it
Even come close to carrying my threat through
Cos it seems to me to be
Sad but true
No one here on this earth really gives a damm about me
Pitiful ugly me
The stuff nightmares must surely be made of
Bringing my funeral date a little bit closer still
I write these words that keep on breaking my heart
Over and over and over again
I hate myself and I wanna die
No one's fault but my own
I know that
I accept that
Just not strong enough to handle this life on my own
So soon
Very, very soon
I promise that I will make my final exit
Silently and without a word
So that I don't disturb any of your happy lifes
I'll whisper it to myself one last time before I go
What I would like you to crave on my tombstone when I'm finally gone at last
Please don't be too sad
Cos it's ok
Really it is
Cos the truth is
It was her choice
She hated herself and she wanted to die......
I hate that you fooled me
With your infectios smile
I hate that you told me you loved me
When you were lying all the while
I hate that you were so jealous
When he was just a friend
I hate that you turned this
Into something we cannot mend
I hate that we screwed this up
Past the point of no return
I hate that you never believed me
Trust is something you should learn
I hate that you ignore me now
As if we never were
I hate that you betrayed me
For my pain there is no cure
I hate that you broke my heart
You don't know what I've been through
But most of all
I hate myself for letting you
I hate the way you look at me
I hate the way you care
I hate the way you kiss me
I even hate your hair
I hate things you say
I hate the way you dress
I hate the way you smile
I hate the way you stress
I hate the way you sleep
I hate the way you eat
I hate the way you love me
And the way you treat me like meat! !
I hate,
hate that I can't trust
I hate,
hate that I must lie because they'd rather believe I'm fine.
I hate,
hate who I've been.
I hate,
hate to make decisions.
I hate,
hate that I can't hate those I should.
I hate,
hate my life.
I hate,
hate that I can't die.
I hate,
hate to live in fear and hate.
I hate,
hate my uncertainty.
I hate,
hate the lies people tell me.
I hate,
hate that I believe.
I hate,
hate those that wish their lives were mine.
I hate,
hate all emotion that's mine.
I hate,
hate that I need others.
I hate,
hate my own d*mn incompetence.
I hate,
hate that there's so much to hate.
I hate the way you look at me,
And the way you stand and stare,
I hate how you have a lame excuse,
For almost never being there.
I hate it when you always drink,
And always raise your voice,
I hate it most when you call me her,
You’re leaving me no choice.
I hate it when you turn your back,
And mumble ‘not tonight’
I hate it when you go away,
And then turn your mobile off all night.
I hate it when you sometimes lie,
And keep your secrets deep,
I hate it when you don’t want sex,
Or lie away from me to sleep.
I hate the way you make me feel,
When fit girls give you attention,
I hate the fact my love is real,
And the way you snub my affection.
I hate it when you get me mad,
And when you make me cry,
I hate it when I wake up sad,
Those days I just want to die.
I hate it when you make me laugh,
And the way you read my mind,
I hate that annoying music you play,
And the way you’re always kind.
I hate the fact I don’t hate you,
And how I never will,
Its just you piss me off,
You make me want to kill.
I hate it that you’re good in bed,
When you feel the need,
I hate it when you’re in my head,
And make my thoughts seem easy to read.
I hate the fact I love you,
And how you’re some what right,
I hate it that I’ll always love you,
Forever from morning to night.
I hate the way you act
I hate the way you dress
I hate the way you smell
And you hair looks a mess
I hate the way you tease
I hate the way you beg
I hate the way you talk
And I hate your hairy legs
I hate all you friends
And your family to boot
But i still find myself falling in love with you.
Please spare me your secrets
I am not your best friend
(atleast not yet! !)
‘N I am sorry to break this to you
But …
I am not sure if I would ever be
Not that I don’t like you
But…
You are not my type
Or the other way around
So save your secrets to yourself
I don’t want to hear any, not even a bit
It disturbs me and haunts me
It also ruins my day each and every minute
I know someday you will read this
And hate me like some kind of disease
‘N instead of telling my secrets
I write them down in form of poems
‘N guess what? ? ?
I gain PEACE
‘N I got nothing to lose
So keep your secrets to yourself
No matter whose! ! !
March 15,2006
For those who feel the SaMe WaY
Down my street and through the city lives a little slut that I really pity
She lies and  steals and is whore to the heart
And all day long her legs are apart
She has no ambition and no self respect
I really do think she needs to be decked
I hate I hate this person so much
She should be imprisoned on a island in a small little hutch
I have sat and thought on what I could do
But all she thinks of is the next guy to screw
The world is now filled with herpes and aids
I hope she is happy for the trouble she’s made
I hate that you left me
I have that I fell for you
I hate that your smile haunts
I hate that you died
I hate that I can't be angry
I hate that I'm upset
I hate that you wanted this
I hate that I wasn't enough
I hate that I couldn't make you happy
I hate that your gone
I hate that I don't hate you
I hate that your laugh is gone
I hate your gentle kisses
I hate your friends for not crying
I hate that I can't stop crying
I hate that life goes on
I hate that your not actually dead
I hate your choices
I hate the drugs that you love
I hate I feel that your dead
I hate you're no longer mine
I hate the people you now call friends
I hate the men you sleep with
I hate your dad for what he's done
I hate seeing you so unhappy
I hate so many things but the one
I hate the most
I hate that I love you
I hate I would die for you
I hate I'll never get over you
I hate this new you
I hate myself for not hating you
I hate the way you treat me
I hate that everything is how you want it to be
I hate all your lies and silly games
I hate how you make them all the same
I hate that I feel this way
I hate that I can't take the pain away
I hate that I'm your back bone
I hate being in the same zone
I hate the way you make me feel
I hate the pain won't heal
I hate that you are too blind to see
I hate that I want to leave
I hate not wanting to be around
I hate your mouth that produces bad sounds
I hate a lot of other things too
But I hate that you make me hate you
A crime is a crime no matter how you cut it,
A murder is a murder, a rape is a rape,
An assault is what it is,
A crime scene is a crime with the yellow tape.
If the prisons were to be abundant,
We can then send to jail all are convicted,
We don't have to pardon anyone out overcrowding and time off for good behavior,
We must send all the criminals that indicted,
Guilty as charged that is what should fuel our endeavor.
Are we really up to the cost?
Are we really up to taxation?
Are we saying we have lost?
Are we saying we'll pass another law,
such as hate crimes,
without a suitable explanation?
(11-20-2007)
I hate my mom
i hate the way she doesn't call
i hate the way he act like i'm not here child
At least my dad is there for me.
I hate the way she thows me away like i don't belong
But hey i act the parent and call you
o grow up and tart acting like a adult.
So i guess you got your wish goodbye see you heaven 'adios'
no one usually likes the word goodbye.
its a painful word.
that hurts so many poeple
in so many ways.
When your love says goodbye
is that i'll see you later.
or does it mean its 'over'.
goodbye hurt me once
it was the end of something good,
i wish there wasnt a goodbye
why wouldnt it have been 'hi'?
I hate to fly
And do you know why
You stand in huge line
For three hours
Just to have your bag
Checked in by a retarded old hag.
I hate sitting in the plane
It gives me pain
Next to a person who does
Not speak English
And a little terror kid
Who you wish would play
With the fire exit
You used to call me your sunshine
And you used to be really fine
I wanted to be in your life
And now i am your ex wife
I hate you so bad for that
We used to be really wild
But we never had a child
I was really cool
But i ended up with a fool
I hate you baby boy
I told you i loved you
And you said you love me too
But how could that be
When in the end you said you hated me
So now i hate you too
You are still in my half broken heart
While your car is a one wheeled shopping cart
You always were beggin
You can never enter my heart again
Because i hate you
I’m tearing in two
And I’m not sure what to do
My heart is screaming I love him
My mind saying I hate him
What do I do
I love him, but I hate him?
I love everything about him
I love how he smiles
I love how he can make me smile
I love how no matter what is going on.
I love how he will always be there
But all the same
I hate him
I hate everything he means for
I hate how he can make me smile
No matter how hard I try not to
I hate how he can make me cry
I hate how he can make me sad
I hate how he can make me feel
I hate how he looks at me with his eyes so kind
I hate how all of this makes me love him even more
I hate how I can’t hate him
Most of all I hate myself
I hate myself because
I can never hate you
I am so scared, finding it hard to breath,
my heart beats so fast, I want it to stop.
I can hear your footsteps nearing my door.
I cringe, bite my nails and sob into my pillow.
I can feel the stench of your breath on the side of my face.
Your touch feels like a bullet, sharp, hot and dangerous.
You enter inside me, sharply, with so much heat, penetrating too deep. You are a monster.
You whisper ' I love you '
I silently reply ' I hate you, daddy '
You don't hear my screams or see my tears, for if you did, you would put an end to my fears.
I lay there, my body a dead weight.
I take myself off to another land of beauty and love.
When you have finished your deadly sin, you smirk at me.
Your dark, evil eyes, you're the spawn of the devil.
As you leave my room of torture,
I turn over, begin to sob into my pillow,
Waiting for the pain and fears to return.
I know you will be back again, to-morrow!
I hate you daddy.
my tears are flowing like a rain,
when am trying to catch that love train,
my feet fails to move as they feel pain,
through the bad memories existing in my brain.
I remember my life's suffering,
when he took me for granted, i was crying,
A nobody, useless it's hurting
some times it's a crime memorizing.
Testing his knife on my body! it happened,
even the donkey felt sorry for me, my cat cried,
my voice of pain was like a guitar tuned.
I can't believe today am  somebody.
his photocopy standing over me, needs help,
i feel sorry  for her but i can't stop,
she's beautifully on making a step,
but the memories i have i can't help.
I hate you
I hate that you left me stand stupid for so long
I hate that you thought I could or would take it.
I hate you
I hate that you let me go
I hate that you left me standing alone.
I hate you
I hate that you couldn't prove me wrong
I hate that I was right.
I hate you
I hate that I met you
I hate that I opened  my heart
I hate that it was to you
I hate that I love you
I hate you
I hate that I lost my clear mind
I hate that I lost my direction
I hate that I lost it because of you
I hate you
I hate that I hate you
It wasn't suppose to be like this.
I hate you.
I hate the way i hate you
I hate the way i love you
I hate it that i can’t help thinking of you
I hate the way i care for you
I hate the way you don’t know
Ill always be a friend to you cause my feeling i cannot show
I hate the way i can’t move on
I hate that i can’t even try
I hate that when we fall out why am i the one who cries
I hate the way you talk to me
I hate the way you stare
But most of all i hate how can’t admit that there’s nothing there
I hate that cause of you these tears i cry
I hate that i have no choice but to say goodbye
i hate you kyle
and i love josh
so i hope that hurts you
and i hope your heart
is filled with pain and anger
i hope you die
a slow and painful death
and i hope that im
the one who caused it
9-9-05
I hate you
I hate you
I hate everything you do to me
everything you want me to be
I hate the way you talk behind me
I hate the way you stare at me as I go by
I hate the way you make fun of me
Every single day
I hate the way you make me cry at night
and each and everyday
I hate the way you tried to kill me
I hate the way you kill my emotions
I hate the way  you hate me more and more
each and everyday
you are the one that I hate the most for all the things you did
I will hate you more and more every single day
and I also hate my father because............
he brings you in as
my step-mother.
This poem is to my father. It's a long story, but this is how I feel and this is my way of helping myself feel better after what he did....
I know everyone says hate is a strong word
Hate is a strong
Word
Yeah but in my case
I can use it
I hate you
You bring me nothing but
Anger, pain
Disgust
I may have your looks
But I am not you
I have a brain
I use it, unlike yourself
As a young woman
Almost grown
I know this now
I don't need you
And I think you know why
Why you ask
Because I
Hate you
You make me weak.
You make me feel dirty and sick.
You make me crazy,
You make me cry quick.
I hate you with a passion,
I cannot explain.
You make my heart throb with evil,
Because you are so vain.
I hate you.
I came to that conclusion today.
I hate you.
That's all I can say.
I was walking through
Sunlit and lonely Melvindale,
Which for all intents and purposes
Is mystical Detroit,
And I was thinking about Susan,
Somewhere sad in Pennsylvania.
Boys were playing football,
Which made me lonesome
For Scott and Leroy,
Childhood companions
Lost in time!
A tall mother watering the lawn
Was goddess-like.
Does anyone love Li Po?
Where is Han Shan?
I’d kiss Susan beneath a Maple Tree
If she’d let me read to her
Mexico City Blues by Jack Kerouac.
I love you
And I hate you for it.
You made me fall in love with you
I’m not entirely sure why
You are cocky, and self-assured
You are vain, and temperamental
But I love you because of that
Not in spite of it.
I don’t need extravagance
Or anything to impress me
That job is already done.
I just want you.
And I hate you for it.
You show no pretence
Or false smiles
No airs or graces
And I hate you for it
Where is the line between love and hate?
I just want
YOU
I truly do hate the news
It's full of half truths
And disposable heroes
It ruins the lives of many
The media swarms the story
If your the story
Then stay home and stay inside
Though from the media you cannot hide
They'll look over your fence
Or through your window
For that one snapshot
People say gunshot's kill a person
But so do snapshots
Once your famous
You can never live a normal life
It is cruel how we know more
About celebrities than we do of ourselves
How does reading garbage make us better
A man makes a profit
Off the magazine
Who is unfit to have that money
He ruins lives and me and you
He tells us how to look
And what we should be interested in
I truly do hate the news
I want to know what hate is
I want you to show me
I want to know what hate is
I want you to tell me
Even if it breaks my heart
Let such pure hate still underprop
Our love, that we may be
Each other's conscience,
And have our sympathy
Mainly from thence.
We'll one another treat like gods,
And all the faith we have
In virtue and in truth, bestow
On either, and suspicion leave
To gods below.
Two solitary stars--
Unmeasured systems far
Between us roll;
But by our conscious light we are
Determined to one pole.
What need confound the sphere?--
Love can afford to wait;
For it no hour's too late
That witnesseth one duty's end,
Or to another doth beginning lend.
It will subserve no use,
More than the tints of flowers;
Only the independent guest
Frequents its bowers,
Inherits its bequest.
No speech, though kind, has it;
But kinder silence doles
Unto its mates;
By night consoles,
By day congratulates.
What saith the tongue to tongue?
What hearest ear of ear?
By the decrees of fate
From year to year,
Does it communicate.
Pathless the gulf of feeling yawns;
No trivial bridge of words,
Or arch of boldest span,
Can leap the moat that girds
The sincere man.
No show of bolts and bars
Can keep the foeman out,
Or 'scape his secret mine,
Who entered with the doubt
That drew the line.
No warder at the gate
Can let the friendly in;
But, like the sun, o'er all
He will the castle win,
And shine along the wall.
There's nothing in the world I know
That can escape from love,
For every depth it goes below,
And every height above.
It waits, as waits the sky,
Until the clouds go by,
Yet shines serenely on
With an eternal day,
Alike when they are gone,
And when they stay.
Implacable is Love--
Foes may be bought or teased
From their hostile intent,
But he goes unappeased
Who is on kindness bent.
Am i to be loved by you a day,
and lost for your heart the other?
Know that if you walked away,
i will never love another..
Even if i killed my own heart,
and stopped it from it's right to beat.
I swear i'll tare it apart,
if it longed to who is used to cheat.
How have i ever fell for you?
in no time you had all of me.
How didn't i know what's true?
that you never felt for me.
And i saw more than a sign,
but yet i stayed so in love.
Thinking that you are mine,
i flew all the skies above.
And they told me but i didn't believe,
it will end soon for it had no start.
But i heard nothing, trying to achieve,
the dream of my life to reach your heart.
What was ever on my mind?
if people lied to me, will so my eyes?
How was i so blind?
and hiding from all those lies.
I guess that no words are enough,
to describe the pain inside me.
I thought i am your only love,
and i'm your star and reverie.
Can't help but to stare at you,
and stare back at my weary life.
Can't help but to hate you,
and in this gale i won't survife.
Love and hate and you and i,
why did you have to lead me on?
I can't believe those tears i cry,
i can't believe i was never strong..
Love me
For what I am
Hate me
For what I've done
Love me
For what I do
Hate me
For what I don't do
Love me
For been there for you
Hate me
For every time I failed you
Love me
For trusting you
Hate me
For not thinking of you
Love me
The way that I do
Hate me
For the pain I caused you
Love and Hate are four letter
words that tells lies and that
tells the truth
Love and Hate are four letter
words that express feelings
for the old and the youth
Love and Hate are four letter
words that can be powerful
Love and Hate are four letter
words that can be doubtful
Hate, hate is a four letter
word that is cruel and mean
Hate is a four letter word
that was made to hurt
someone's feelings
Hate is four letter word
that someone uses when they
are angry
Hate is a four letter
word that can tear your family apart
Hate is a four letter word
that can even break your heart
Love, love is four letter word
that can sneak up on us sometimes
Love is four letter word
that is hard to say at times
Love is a four letter word
that can be true and pure
Love is four letter word
that can be fake and cruel
Why do people say 'I love you'
and don't even know what
love is?
Love is a four letter word
that confuses the mind
of adults and us young
kids
Love is a four letter word
that can be blind
Love is a four letter word
that can play tricks on
our minds
Love and Hate are four
letter words that tells lies
and that tells the truth
Love and Hate are four
letter words that expresses
feelings for the old and the youth
Ope not thy lips, thou foolish one,
Nor turn to me thy face;
The blasts of heaven shall strike thee down
Ere I will give thee grace.
Take thou thy shadow from my path,
Nor turn to me and pray;
The wild wild winds thy dirge may sing
Ere I will bid thee stay.
Turn thou away thy false dark eyes,
Nor gaze upon my face;
Great love I bore thee: now great hate
Sits grimly in its place.
All changes pass me like a dream,
I neither sing nor pray;
And thou art like the poisonous tree
That stole my life away.
whom i love strongly is you...
whom i hate strongly too is you...
whom i need strongly is you...
who i refuse is also you...
never to be my beloved...
the first whom taught me a love is you...
the first whom taught me a yearning is you...
the first whom taught me a craziness is you...
and you also the first whom taught me a death from over wait..
never to be my friend...
because of you, i discovered a lands` love...
because of you, i rebuild my dreams...
because of you, i recovered my days again...
and because of you, i raised my white flag,
and declared my giving up...
never to be my beloved nor my friend...
i refuse to be your fire...
and you to be my blaze too...
I love you, I hate you
But your always on my mind
I hate the way you  smile
As beautiful as it may be
I hate the way you walk
And I hate the way you talk
I hate the way you smell
And I hate the way you feel
I hate the way you hair shines
And waves in the breeze
But most of all I hate the way
You make me feel
How your always on my mine
The way I see you but your never there
I hate it when I look at another girl
And all I see is you
I especially hate how much I love you
And everything you do
I hate how I can never have you
Or how my heart is not breaking over you
But shattering inside
With each piece of my heart
Contains a tiny fragment of memories I’ve confined
Memories of you I’ve held deep in side
Never letting go
I hate the way I feel when I miss you
And I want to break down and cry
I hate the pain that’s burning inside
w/t thoughts of how much I love you
that I could never hide
I hate, it and I hate you
But know matter how much I say it
I’ll still always love you deep down in side
Am I sick cos I hate to hate you,
You made me hate you,
Let myself hate you,
When it's all your fault,
...Cos you made me love you,
Yeah you made me hate to love you,
Now I hate myself.
So twist through time,
If you ever look back...
Admit you used me like the other damn Jacks!
So all that time you were lying?
All that time I was a fool?
Now this time I lay dying,
Drowning in this apathy pool,
These salted tears the gullable shed,
Well I've shed mine,
With guilt and dread,
Hear the voices,
Conscience in my head,
Now I can't trust it,
My conscience's dead.
Bittersweet, bitterweet tears run down,
All that time, I choked, I drowned,
I bled these thoughts again and again,
In my mind again, and again...
Am I sick cos I hate to hate you,
You made me hate you,
Let myself hate you,
When it's all your fault,
...Cos you made me love you,
Yeah you made me hate to love you,
Now I hate myself.
So twist through time,
If you ever look back...
Admit you used me like the other damn Jacks!
So all that time you were lying?
All that time I was a fool?
Now this time I lay dying,
Drowning in this apathy pool,
These salted tears the gullable shed,
Well I've shed mine,
With guilt and dread,
Hear the voices,
Conscience in my head,
Now I can't trust it,
My conscience's dead.
Bittersweet, bitterweet tears run down,
All that time, I choked, I drowned,
I bled these thoughts again and again,
In my mind again, and again...
It’s almost midnight on a Tuesday.
he sits on his bed and thinks of what he’s gonna say—
half a case of beer bottles scattered around in diligent dismay.
he’s not a coward.
he’s just lonely.
so much pain runs through his veins;
the scars on his wrists prove his humility
for when he lost his lover, the life he’d built, and part of his family.
confident in his wits—
he picks up the phone and dials the digits;
reciting them by heart he’s feeling inspired, clever, and wise—
regretfully remembering how he’s always had them memorized.
he's mad to love
she's mad to hate.
he wants to create
she wants to annihilate.
she’s not lonely.
she’s just a coward.
so much fear runs through her veins;
the scars on her wrists prove her vanity
for when she turned in her life ungratefully.
laying back-down on her bed—
she’s thinking of all the better men she’s scored;
her phone rings and she’s caught in her deplore.
he pours his heart out before he can think:
racing thoughts dipped in mental ink.
he whispers words reserved for a lovers’ dance
and begs her to give him half-a-fucking-chance;
for he believes he’s only half-the-man now—
despite the newly dug furrows in his brow.
I must be crazed to deny him;
no girl in her sane mind would let this tension unwind.
unraveling like a mummy from the grave—
he lets honesty and candor flood the airwaves.
you see it’s been a year since they've talked;
she said she’d already accepted that he’d pass her by.
she doesn’t believe in come-back-around’s:
you’ve got one shot with one person till you’re dead in the ground.
he’s exhausted now—
the last of the beer syllables have endowed.
every emotion displayed on his face
he feels worn in the way you feel after running a 3 mi race.
she’s on the other end wishing he’d begin again—
but of arrogance or defense—
instead she responds,
“I don’t want to be responsible for your depression;
I have enough on my chest by way of confession.”
she feels like hell
he feels like heaven
cause he knows he’s a creator
and she’s a destroyer.
he's mad to love
she's mad to hate.
take it twice
and reverberate.
11/2005
No hate with hate
Thursday,10th January 2019
If we can win over the internal enemies
if the answer is in yes, then there lies
the solution for all tragedies
we have the medicine and remedy
Why go outside and advocate?
take the refuge under the guise of lies and relate
the things which are common
for all of us as human beings
Whoever has won over the hatred
happiness has always led
the humanity to the purposeful end
we have respected and bowed to such trend
hate emanates fromthe greed and selfishness
the lines can be traced on the face
the visible displeasure is easily noticed
its repercussions are easily felt but roots not traced
we burn with the rage
write it down on the page
but again return to an old theme
and follow them
Hasmukh Mehta
Don’t ask me how I am here
standing next to the pro quarterback
as he lofts one down the practice field.
There should be a vapor trail on that one
as it descends into the next county
with smart bomb accuracy
and almost makes you believe in sanctity,
or better yet, romance.
I’d forgotten how nothing else matters
in the moments after your first kiss.
I turn.
He’s over there looking at a clipboard.
Hate is only one of many responses
true, hurt and hate go hand in hand
but why be afraid of hate, it is only there
think of filth, is it really awesome
neither is hate
don't be shy of unkindness, either
it's cleansing and allows you to be direct
like an arrow that feels something
out and out meanness, too, lets love breathe
you don't have to fight off getting in too deep
you can always get out if you're not too scared
an ounce of prevention's
enough to poison the heart
don't think of others
until you have thought of yourself, are true
all of these things, if you feel them
will be graced by a certain reluctance
and turn into gold
if felt by me, will be smilingly deflected
by your mysterious concern
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving,
O, but with mine, compare thou thine own state,
And thou shalt find it merits not reproving,
Or if it do, not from those lips of thine
That have profaned their scarlet ornaments
And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
Robbed others' beds' revenues of their rents.
Be it lawful I love thee as thou lov'st those
Whom thine eyes woo as mine importune thee.
Root pity in thy heart, that when it grows
Thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
If thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,
By self-example mayst thou be denied!
Then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now;
Now, while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
And do not drop in for an after-loss.
Ah, do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe;
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
But in the onset come; so shall I taste
At first the very worst of fortune's might,
And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
Compared with loss of thee will not seem so.
Cupid, I hate thee, which I'd have thee know;
A naked starveling ever may'st thou be.
Poor rogue, go pawn thy fascia and thy bow
For some few rags wherewith to cover thee.
Or, if thou'lt not, thy archery forbear,
To some base rustic do thyself prefer,
And when corn's sown or grown into the ear,
Practise thy quiver and turn crow-keeper.
Or, being blind, as fittest for the trade,
Go hire thyself some bungling harper's boy;
They that are blind are often minstrels made;
So may'st thou live, to thy fair mother's joy,
That whilst with Mars she holdeth her old way,
Thou, her blind son, may'st sit by them and play.
Oh, summer’s heat,
In my life it lit;
In the mind aims to penetrate,
This moment’s flame, how I hate.
Oppressing heat seems eternal,
Breeze that’s cool is but ephemeral;
Sultry nights embrace you so tight,
Blinding you in the magic shards of light.
Hell is the summer’s day,
With the sun’s burning ray;
It destroys thy once magnificent lea,
And turns to mud the beatific sea.
Oh, summer’s heat,
Wane the aches just a bit;
The puissant heat, wind can’t abate,
This moment’s flame, how I utterly hate.
The day I hate rice
Is several rare day in a year
When I don't eat rice
I don't want to eat rice
I don't want to see it
Because I hate its taste
And I hate to think about it
If I have the day I hate rice
Then you'll know that I don't feel well
I'm bored of this procession
I want to run from this life
Because I begin to hate myself
...just a little while
And everything will be back to normal again
That's the meaning of
The day I hate rice
Brought up in a prejudice dysfunctional household.
Took away the heart that once lived within your soul
Fiery eyes of a demon, a  prejudice beast
Live your heart, conjuring up a deploring feast
You’ve hurt, you’ve maimed, took education away.
Took bright eyes and turned them a shade of gray.
Many years took  its toile on the likes of you.
Bad heart, failed kidneys, time to pay your dues.
You reside in a room on the other side of town.
No one visits, no one cares, you sit wearing a frown.
Time to think and reflect while your body breaks down
No legacy to leave, you failed all around
The same people you despised, harbored hate for years
are the people who now console, dry your tears.
Why waste your time in this blessed life,
to create heartache, hate and contribute to ones strife.
Remember what you give out, you get back ten times more.
Father time will surely visit, come walking through your door.
Pick yourself up, start now before it’s too late.
Stop the cruelty, the pain, the destruction of hate.
(April 13/2007)
The fate of hate is hate
Hate was his way of life
Humanity he did not like
Killed thousands
Around the world
Taught others
To live in hate
In the name of religion
Called himself a human
Lived like a demon
Spread terror on the earth
Did not get
Two yards for himself
Remains buried
In the depth of the sea
Was cursed by everybody
From a child to elderly
His fate was known
Long before he died
Tried his best to hide
But could not survive
The fate of hate is hate
Hate killed hate
03-05-2011
803-10-05-11
(On the death of Osama Bin Laden)
I hate the hate that resides in me now
I hate the hate that is so heavy it weighs me down
I hate the hate that keeps my emotions tightly wound
I hate the hate that charges my wall
I hate the hate that lies to strengthen my fall
I hate the hate that has me in chains
I hate the hate that courses through my veins
I hate the hate that is a shadow at my side
I hate the hate that has stolen my mind
I hate the hate that blinds me from the stars
I hate the hate that has created my war
I hate the hate that has stolen my grace
My scarlet letter written all over my face
I hate that you changed.
I hate that you’re the same.
I hate that you left.
I hate how you’ve stayed.
I hate how I cry.
I hate how you make me smile.
I hate how I miss you.
I hate how I feel.
I hate how it hurts.
I hate that it’s my fault.
I hate that it’s yours.
I hate that I can’t be around you.
I hate how I’ve lost you.
I hate how I’ve found out who you really are.
I hate that I can’t tell you any of this.
But most of all,
I hate how I can’t hate you,
Not even a little.
I hate how I still love you
Hate is the opposite of love.
These emotions are powerful.
Hate stirs up conflicts and wars.
Discrimination is a cause of hate.
People say hate is a powerful word.
It is indeed a powerful word hate.
Hate brings on Anxiety
Anxiety leads to fear.
Fear brings on anger.
Anger leads to suffering.
Suffering causes death.
This feeling is dark and dreadful.
Hate is represented by the color black.
Such a dark deep color like hate.
In the dictionary there are too many words that mean hate.
Does all Humanity hate each other.
People hate you for your beliefs, interests, dress, even the way you look.
Thinking that hate will be a solved problem is only a madman's dream.
Emoticon, emoticon...
(which syllable to put the accent on?)
nasty jumpy upandown thingies
I'll like to hit you out of court with a boing..., like Martina Hinghis
and as for Fart Button,
what sort of a site is this to have that crudely put on?
They are not words for love or words of love.
Heaven is not a place; it is a state;
not in the clouds, nor here on earth beneath;
heaven's not in front, behind, nor left nor right -
and yet, in love it comprehends all these.
God is not found by silence, nor by speech;
not found by fasting, nor by finest food;
not by seclusion, nor by company -
and yet, within all these, and all around.
There's nowhere, thus, to go; for all is here;
and nought to do but, present, here to rest;
and resting, wish and will and love God dear
with full intent; no other interest.
All's within the heart, so vast, so great -
for heaven's not a place; it is a state.
Wrapped in your arms
Souls entwined
Floating in love's whipped cream
Silver lined
Heaven descends on earth.....
Swimming rose petals
Heady wine
A poem befalls upon us
God's sign
Heaven descends on earth......
Long nights of passion
Nine to nine
Climbing peaks unimagined
Finding our shrines
Heaven descends on earth.....
Completing each other
Love divine
Birth after birth after birth
Forever thine
Heaven descends on earth.....
To finally meet the King of Fathers.
To look upon his face, and know the
one who stood beside us, through
strife and hardships grueling race.
A chance to meet the Son of God, who
laid his life upon the cross and asked
forgiveness for our sins. To touch his
long, flowing robe, knowing life will
now begin.
Where soft, warm winds blow, over
quiet blissful gardens filled with
scents of aromatic kindness and
shadows of silhouette dancers.
Watch the angels whisper by, singing
Songs of harmony ore the sky
playing harps and flutes so dear.
A place to bask in all it’s pleasure,
Gifts of glorious, heavenly treasures.
The paradise we’ve longed for. A
meeting place of those gone before us.
Now our chance to carry on, in deep
thoughts of communication, singing
sweet spiritual song.
Alas to realize,  no more worries, nor
bills to pay, nor rent, nor mortgage nor
unpleasantries on any given day.
Away from the darkness to the light,
to glorious everlasting life.
Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths,
Enwrought with golden and silver light,
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half-light,
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.
They were created with perfection
But arrived before well baked
Sent to show the way
Searchers of another day
Nestled in our hearts
Never to be forgotten
Drawn now into dream
Revel in the knowing
The angels of adventure.
Arrived as a calm against the storm
Opening the changes around
They escaped this reality
Leaving a message of trust
Treat the coming for what it is
And explore the dream
For they where a gift from heaven
Simple the delight they gave
Melting the hearts around
Into sleep now taken
These tiny infants of the dream
They herald the changes within.
There’s an airline plane
Flies to Heaven every day
Past them pearly gates
If you want to ride this train
Have your ticket in your hand
Before it is too late.
If the world looks wrong
And your money’s spent and gone
And your friend has turned away
You can get away to Heaven
On this aeroplane
Just bow your head and pray.
Them’s got ears let them hear
Them’s got eyes let them see
Turn Your Eyes to the Lord of the skies
Take that airline Plane
It will Take You Home again.
Yes, to your home beyond the skies.
Well, a lot of people guess
Some say no and some say Yes
Will it take some and leave some behind?
But you will surely know
When to the airport go
To leave this world behind
Oh, a lot of speakers speak
And a lot of preachers preach
When you lay their salary on the line
But to bow your head and pray
Is the only earthly way
That you can fly to Heaven on time.
That you can reach Heaven on time.
Your ticket you obtain
On this heavenly airline plane
You leave your sins behind
You have got to take this flight
Might be daytime, might be night,
But you can’t see your way if you’re blind.
Dear sweet innocent child of mine.
I am writing you this letter from heaven.
Just to let you know that Mother still loves you.
Don't worry about me for I am doing fine.
For it is I that is worried about you.
As I walk through the garden of eternal life.
I hear your silent prayers very clearly.
Mother knows that there will be times that you fill like giving up,
but don't you do it sweet child of mine.
For God has assured me that a long days journey is made shorter by
taking the first step toward him.
In the beginning, as in the end.
He will take two steps toward you.
So my dear sweet child keep on climbing.
For I am sure sweet child of mine.
God never built a stairway to nowhere for you to climb.
To you honey,
may you rest in the same peace
I had when we were together
If the sky could dance
I would dance with it forever
So that you could see us from Heaven
And smile.
If my memories with you
Could fit in a star
I would observe the stars
Every night
Until the dawn comes,
Or until I fell asleep
Thinking of you.
If every little bird
Could be a messenger
I would send you a love letter
With every single one of them.
If I could do all that
nights would not drug themselves in pain,
misery would be transformed in tears
and my well-kept 'I love you' would
no longer feel neglected and forgotten.
Now I can only
Dance your favourite dance alone,
Until my knees hurt more than my dry eyes
Sing your favourite song alone,
Until I run out of breath
Like I did the first time we met.
Write you a love letter
And send it to Heaven
hoping that you can forget my ignorance
on how precious time is
to be wasted on single kisses
under the warm sun.
Two lovers to a midnight meadow came
High in the hills, to lie there hand and hand
Like effigies and look up at the stars,
The never-setting ones set in the North
To circle the Pole in idiot majesty,
And wonder what was given them to wonder.
Being amateurs, they knew some of the names
By rote, and could attach the names to stars
And draw the lines invisible between
That humbled all the heavenly things to farm
And forest things and even kitchen things,
A bear, a wagon, a long handled ladle;
Could wonder at the shadow of the world
That brought those lights to light, could wonder too
At the ancestral eyes and the dark mind
Behind them that had reached the length of light
To name the stars and draw the animals
And other stuff that dangled in the height,
Or was it the deep? Did they look in
Or out, the lovers? till they grew bored
As even lovers will, and got up to go,
But drunken now, with staggering and dizziness,
Because the spell of earth had moved them so,
Hallucinating that the heavens moved.
Seeing we never found gay fairyland
(Though still we crouched by bluebells moon by moon)
And missed the tide of Lethe; yet are soon
For that new bridge that leaves old Styx half-spanned;
Nor ever unto Mecca caravanned;
Nor bugled Asgard, skilled in magic rune;
Nor yearned for far Nirvana, the sweet swoon,
And from high Paradise are cursed and banned;
-Let's die home, ferry across the Channel! Thus
Shall we live gods there. Death shall be no sev'rance.
Weary cathedrals light new shrines for us.
To us, rough knees of boys shall ache with rev'rence.
Are not girls' breasts a clear, strong Acropole?
-There our oun mothers' tears shall heal us whole.
Gold and Silver
Precious gems untold
Diamonds and pearls
Streets of gold
Walls of jasper
A crown of life
Awaits us all
On the other side
Heavens gates
Will you enter in
The wealth of life
Where there's no sin
No tears will fall
From our eyes
No room for sorrow
Or sad good byes
Beauty and glory
Will always abound
Heavens sweet music
An angelic sound
Rays of glitter
Sparkle and shine
A place called Heaven
I claim as mine
Hearts bleed a beautiful red, like a curtain to our love
We walk through slowly like we don't even hear a sound
With each step we take new comfort and salvation is found
We walk together like we don't have a care in the world
I saw a beautiful heaven there when I looked above
We walked though together and the white clouds did their best but
Our first steps left us hanging in a nameless ten month rut
Since then angels did sing, It was salvation that I found
I saw the burning pits of hell and how they called my name
I stumbled in uncertain, your pretty face not around
So I let my body rest there, dead in the burning ground
Winter woke me suddenly with it's chills, you're not there still
I looked up, saw you in heaven, you smiled bright like a star
He made you happy, I thought to myself 'Stay where you are,
My heart is done now and forever, love has left it's scar, '
So I grabbed my knees and pulled them close so I'd fall asleep
I dreamed of far better times far before my fall to hell
Before it froze over and gave me this story to tell
I dreamt that you kissed broken me upon my pale blue cheek
but I looked over at you and my wide eyes did not blink
That's when I learned my lesson, not to play with caring hearts
It's not so easy to pick up the pieces when it falls apart
Your heart gets shakey and forever easily scared
I'm so sorry that I took for granted that you cared
Now I walk in beautiful heaven again with burned wings
You make me so happy that I forget that my heart stings
I've never been this happy so I need you to understand
From time to time I still close my weary eyes and wonder
If I'm still dreaming...
A birthday poem for my wife
A star fell from heaven
Into my arms last night
As we walked arm in arm
Under a cloudy moonlight
Now heavens missing an angel
Because I’m holding her tight
You came into my life
Like the first ray of the sun
And I knew right away
That you were the one
There were no need for words
Just a small simple smile
My heart fluttered
With coming of the dawn
Because like the stars
I hoped you wouldn’t be gone
I wanted you there at my side
As each day fades to into night
I wanted you here
As my lover and wife
Your not going back
I won’t let you go
I love you too much
To ever let you go
It’s your birthday today Mum.
And wherever you are, near or far,
I want you to know that we remember you.
Not just today, but every day,
and we mourn the way
you were taken.
You were snatched cruelly from our lives,
leaving a lonely, empty hole.
Maybe God needed an angel, though.
And it was you he painfully stole.
We all miss you Mum.
Even the boys, who you never met.
We all love you Mum.
And we’ll never, ever forget.
Dear Mommy up in heaven,
you’re always in my mind.
I wish that you could tell me
why you left so much behind.
You left your bunny slippers,
fuzzy pink with big long ears,
and when Daddy holds your picture
he’s sad and cries real tears.
Your clothes are in the bedroom,
you left your perfume, too,
and when I need you close to me
I go there - it smells like you.
You must hum a lot in heaven.
Daddy says he thinks you might.
Sometimes I think I hear you
when I shut my eyes real tight.
I miss your hugs and kisses,
you took most of them with you,
but I’m glad you made me save some
in my jammy pockets, too.
Me and Daddy miss and love you
and we don’t mean to make a fuss.
I guess you loved us both so much
that you left your stuff for us.
The wave breaks
And I'm carried into it.
This is hell, I know,
Yet my father laughs,
Chest-deep, proving I'm wrong.
We're safely rooted,
Rocked on his toes.
Nothing irked him more
Than asking, "What is there
Beyond death?"
His theory once was
That love greets you,
And the loveless
Don't know what to say.
Too many long scorching summers of unending heat
have passed and burned away hopes - no rain – defeat.
Fine, powdery and silky, red soils move in the hot winds
from original places to new locations, including dust bins.
The soft, silky sands drift and cause anguish and pain
where various seeds of winter's plantings show no gain.
Sunburned and weathered faces show pain of different kind,
pains of hunger and thirst, and of each a very worried mind.
Vultures circle clear, blue skies ready to attack weakened prey,
as the struggle of life continues to fight for life for another day.
Once tall, strong, trees, and native shrubs, plants and flowers
are now desperately clinging to life in their last days and hours.
Years, months, weeks, and days drag by as some clouds gather
and then as quickly fade away to leave living things in a lather.
Then one day a miracle does happen as one of God's clouds burst
as a dropp or two does very gradually show, maybe over the  worst.
Suddenly with utter shock and disbelief, as almost loss of hope,
sparkling, liquid diamonds fall and rush from the sky, as if to elope.
Dancing diamonds appear now as if dripping silver from the trees,
as the softness of the welcomed rains fall - and again, all is at ease.
She did not know that she was dead,
But, when the pang was o'er,
Sat down to wait her Master's tread
Upon the Golden Floor,
With ears full-cock and anxious eye
Impatiently resigned;
But ignorant that Paradise
Did not admit her kind.
Persons with Haloes, Harps, and Wings
Assembled and reproved;
Or talked to her of Heavenly things,
But Dinah never moved.
There was one step along the Stair
That led to Heaven's Gate;
And, till she heard it, her affair
Was--she explained--to wait.
And she explained with flattened ear,
Bared lip and milky tooth--
Storming against Ithuriel's Spear
That only proved her truth!
Sudden--far down the Bridge of Ghosts
That anxious spirits clomb--
She caught that step in all the hosts,
And knew that he had come.
She left them wondering what to do,
But not a doubt had she.
Swifter than her own squeal she flew
Across the Glassy Sea;
Flushing the Cherubs every where,
And skidding as she ran,
She refuged under Peter's Chair
And waited for her man.
. . . . . . .
There spoke a Spirit out of the press,
'Said:--"Have you any here
That saved a fool from drunkenness,
And a coward from his fear?
"That turned a soul from dark to day
When other help was vain;
That snatched it from Wanhope and made
A cur a man again?"
"Enter and look," said Peter then,
And set The Gate ajar.
"If know aught of women and men
I trow she is not far."
"Neither by virtue, speech nor art
Nor hope of grace to win;
But godless innocence of heart
That never heard of sin:
"Neither by beauty nor belief
Nor white example shown.
Something a wanton--more a thief--
But--most of all--mine own."
"Enter and look," said Peter then,
"And send you well to speed;
But, for all that I know of women and men
Your riddle is hard to read."
Then flew Dinah from under the Chair,
Into his arms she flew--
And licked his face from chin to hair
And Peter passed them through!
Am I going to be reunited
with all my old pets in heaven?
I sure hope not.
I know you’re probably surprised to hear that.
But the last thing I want to do
is take care of that damn rabbit again.
dose heaven know you belong to me?
dose heaven know do the angel see?
why so fast, why this early,
why take you life, why they set my tears dropping free,
the angels couldnt see our love, couldnt see what we could be,
your life was so could, so slippery to hold,
a cold love story, a story to be told,
dose heaven know do the angel see?
that they snatched and stole you away from me?
472
Except the Heaven had come so near—
So seemed to choose My Door—
The Distance would not haunt me so—
I had not hoped—before—
But just to hear the Grace depart—
I never thought to see—
Afflicts me with a Double loss—
'Tis lost—and lost to me—
154
Except to Heaven, she is nought.
Except for Angels—lone.
Except to some wide-wandering Bee
A flower superfluous blown.
Except for winds—provincial.
Except by Butterflies
Unnoticed as a single dew
That on the Acre lies.
The smallest Housewife in the grass,
Yet take her from the Lawn
And somebody has lost the face
That made Existence—Home!
Father in heaven,
Here I am
Ready to listen to your voice
To heed to your instructions
And Follow your very word
Father in heaven
My maker, Earth’s creator
My being a special design
Am an original from you
Your word a label that fulfills
My every desire
Father in heaven
Father of my peace
With Joy satisfied
My life a gift
From you daddy
Father in Heaven
I come before your throne
Just to say Thank you
For all you have done
Thanks for everything daddy.
Your favorite chair is vacant now...
No eager barks to greet me.
No softly padded paws to run
Ecstatically to meet me.
No coaxing rubs, no plaintive cry
I will never say it's time for feeding again.
I've put away your bowl, and all
The things you won't be needing;
But I will miss you little friend,
For I could never measure
The happiness you brought me,
The comfort and the pleasure.
And since God put you here to share
In earthly joy and sorrow;
I'm sure there'll be a place for you
In Heaven's bright tomorrow...
By,
Megan Dugan
Someone told me that when we go to heaven,
it will be full of Hollywood gangster movies and
we’ll have to select which one we want to live
in forever. I assume you’ll choose The
Godfather. That’s the obvious choice, but I
think I would have to pick Key Largo. I would
never get tired of hearing Edward G. Robinson
say, “Thousands of guys got guns, but there’s
only one Johnny Rocko! ” And I would play
Humphrey Bogart and I would get to say,
“I used to have hopes, but I gave them up.”
And Robinson would ask, “What kind of hopes? ”
And then I’d get to snarl, “Hopes for a world
where there’s no Johnny Rocko! ” Hot damn!
Can you think of a better way to spend eternity?
Sure beats lying around on clouds with that
infernal harp music blaring in your ears.
[To be sung to the tune of The Blood of the Lamb with indicated instrument]
I
[Bass drum beaten loudly.]
Booth led boldly with his big bass drum --
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
The Saints smiled gravely and they said: "He's come."
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
Walking lepers followed, rank on rank,
Lurching bravoes from the ditches dank,
Drabs from the alleyways and drug fiends pale --
Minds still passion-ridden, soul-powers frail: --
Vermin-eaten saints with mouldy breath,
Unwashed legions with the ways of Death --
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
[Banjos.]
Every slum had sent its half-a-score
The round world over. (Booth had groaned for more.)
Every banner that the wide world flies
Bloomed with glory and transcendent dyes.
Big-voiced lasses made their banjos bang,
Tranced, fanatical they shrieked and sang: --
"Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?"
Hallelujah! It was queer to see
Bull-necked convicts with that land make free.
Loons with trumpets blowed a blare, blare, blare
On, on upward thro' the golden air!
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
II
[Bass drum slower and softer.]
Booth died blind and still by Faith he trod,
Eyes still dazzled by the ways of God.
Booth led boldly, and he looked the chief
Eagle countenance in sharp relief,
Beard a-flying, air of high command
Unabated in that holy land.
[Sweet flute music.]
Jesus came from out the court-house door,
Stretched his hands above the passing poor.
Booth saw not, but led his queer ones there
Round and round the mighty court-house square.
Then in an instant all that blear review
Marched on spotless, clad in raiment new.
The lame were straightened, withered limbs uncurled
And blind eyes opened on a new, sweet world.
[Bass drum louder.]
Drabs and vixens in a flash made whole!
Gone was the weasel-head, the snout, the jowl!
Sages and sibyls now, and athletes clean,
Rulers of empires, and of forests green!
[Grand chorus of all instruments. Tambourines to the foreground.]
The hosts were sandalled, and their wings were fire!
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
But their noise played havoc with the angel-choir.
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
O shout Salvation! It was good to see
Kings and Princes by the Lamb set free.
The banjos rattled and the tambourines
Jing-jing-jingled in the hands of Queens.
[Reverently sung, no instruments.]
And when Booth halted by the curb for prayer
He saw his Master thro' the flag-filled air.
Christ came gently with a robe and crown
For Booth the soldier, while the throng knelt down.
He saw King Jesus. They were face to face,
And he knelt a-weeping in that holy place.
Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?
God lay dead in heaven;
Angels sang the hymn of the end;
Purple winds went moaning,
Their wings drip-dripping
With blood
That fell upon the earth.
It, groaning thing,
Turned black and sank.
Then from the far caverns
Of dead sins
Came monsters, livid with desire.
They fought,
Wrangled over the world,
A morsel.
But of all sadness this was sad -
A woman's arms tried to shield
The head of a sleeping man
From the jaws of the final beast.
79
Going to Heaven!
I don't know when—
Pray do not ask me how!
Indeed I'm too astonished
To think of answering you!
Going to Heaven!
How dim it sounds!
And yet it will be done
As sure as flocks go home at night
Unto the Shepherd's arm!
Perhaps you're going too!
Who knows?
If you should get there first
Save just a little space for me
Close to the two I lost—
The smallest "Robe" will fit me
And just a bit of "Crown"—
For you know we do not mind our dress
When we are going home—
I'm glad I don't believe it
For it would stop my breath—
And I'd like to look a little more
At such a curious Earth!
I'm glad they did believe it
Whom I have never found
Since the might Autumn afternoon
I left them in the ground.
I reached for your hand, It wasn’t there
I needed your heart, you didn’t care
I was born to you, you couldn’t love me
I was a mistake, you needed to be free
I don’t blame you, life dealt you a bad deal
You never knew love, and could not heal
Abandoned yourself, a very young child
You needed your freedom, to be wild
Trapped like a wild animal all your life
So much burden to have children and be a wife
Made bad choices, abuse was all you knew
The worst of mankind is what you drew
You never healed from being a kid
I couldn’t understand back then, things you did
My biggest fear growing up, was being like you
I was so broken, but finally pulled through
You couldn’t accept my love till you got old and sick
I wanted your love through then and thick
I took care of you till the very end, my heart breaking
I needed your love, and it was finally there for the taking
So I want you to know if you can see me up there
You will always be in my heart, I’ll always care
Do I forgive you, I’m haunted by losing you again
I feel so lucky for the short time, before it had to end
It’s been two years now, I still carry the pain
I’ve always loved you, and it wasn’t in vane
The cemetery is painful, I know you aren’t there
But I can talk to you, please know I care.
Your life was tragic and so was mine
I’ve broken the curse and continue to shine
I hope you have, a wonderful mothers day
You’re with God now, and not others prey
So I say goodbye, once again for now
I’ll see you again, this I vow!
By Dogs4donna
© 2007 Dogs4donna (All rights reserved)
Night opens wide the burning Macrocosm,-
And heaven's hierarchies come into view
Lo, the spirit sings, and the elements dance
Interwoven with snaky locks of starlight.
And the Microcosm grows distinct in the deep night:
We hear the roar of elements spinning inside us,-
And behold our own hierarchical assemblage
From close stars to dim-eyed spots of light.
There is a milky way in the soul as in the heavens;
There is a multitude in both of these creations:
The same word is stamped in both of these books -
And twin scales measure the same weight.
There is a He in the flames of depths revealed;
There is an I in the deepest miracles.
She collects angels
the way others amass shoes,
or a child collects marbles
or unicorns, surrounding herself
with their mythical grace
like a plush mink coat.
Filled to its beams
with a thousand wings
her bedroom crouches, ready
to rise from its floorboards
to the grand foyer of her Lord.
She's been praying
for that moment for some time.
She has some questions for him.
The end of time is comming,
the signs all say it's true.
Satan is on the loose, he's attacking me and you.
But I can't wait until that day, when he is eternally bound.
I'll be in the sky with Jesus, and I'll be Heaven bound.
I'm Heaven bound, I'm Heaven bound,
Jesus is the reason, that I am Heaven bound.
If you want to go with me, when that trumpet sounds,
Just believe in Jesus and and you'll be Heaven bound.
Don't wait until tomorrow, you may not have that long,
Jesus is the answer, to what ever you've done wrong.
Just call upon His Holy Name and He'll be able to say,
Come in my faithful servant, on that Judgement Day.
I'm Heaven bound, I'm Heaven bound,
Jesus is the reason, that I'm Heaven bound.
If you want to go with me, when that trumpet sounds,
Just believe in Jesus, and you'll be heaven bound.
When I get to Heaven, and walk those streets of gold,
Stand before the King of Kings, with all those Saints of old,
I know when I get there, I'll be on Holy Ground,
Glory Hallelauh! I am Heaven bound.
I'm Heaven bound, I'm Heaven bound,
Jesus is the reason, that I'm Heaven bound.
If you want to go with me, when that trumpet sounds,
Just believe in Jesus, and you'll be Heaven bound.
Just believe in Jesus, and you'll be Heaven bound.
575
"Heaven" has different Signs—to me—
Sometimes, I think that Noon
Is but a symbol of the Place—
And when again, at Dawn,
A mighty look runs round the World
And settles in the Hills—
An Awe if it should be like that
Upon the Ignorance steals—
The Orchard, when the Sun is on—
The Triumph of the Birds
When they together Victory make—
Some Carnivals of Clouds—
The Rapture of a finished Day—
Returning to the West—
All these—remind us of the place
That Men call "paradise"—
Itself be fairer—we suppose—
But how Ourself, shall be
Adorned, for a Superior Grace—
Not yet, our eyes can see—
"Heaven" has different Signs—to me—
Sometimes, I think that Noon
Is but a symbol of the Place—
And when again, at Dawn,
A mighty look runs round the World
And settles in the Hills—
An Awe if it should be like that
Upon the Ignorance steals—
The Orchard, when the Sun is on—
The Triumph of the Birds
When they together Victory make—
Some Carnivals of Clouds—
The Rapture of a finished Day—
Returning to the West—
All these—remind us of the place
That Men call "paradise"—
Itself be fairer—we suppose—
But how Ourself, shall be
Adorned, for a Superior Grace—
Not yet, our eyes can see—
I have desired to go
Where springs not fail,
To fields where flies no sharp and sided hail,
And a few lilies blow.
And I have asked to be
Where no storms come,
Where the green swell is in the havens dumb,
And out of the swing of the sea.
Heaven is here and now —
drowsing in the sun
on a Sunday afternoon
in early June, a distant hum
of some machinery, the murmur of
the sea, borne on a breeze
that cools, and rustles the leaves
of my apple trees near where I sit
in this comfy chair high up
on my garage roof where I overlook
green fields that stretch
for miles and miles to where
distinctions merge in the blue and
misty shadows of some other land
beyond the far horizon.
In the sun-warmed air sleek
swallows swoop and wheel
while other birds fly to and fro
so purposeful on errands that
no man may know. A falcon glides
above the trees, two butterflies
rise high in a spiral dance
and over there shining bright
black and white against the green,
heads down, a herd of Friesian cows
lazily graze the lush grass
that grows in a field by the sea..
All this we know will pass:
other days will bring grey skies,
cold winds that bite, pain, loss, disease,
and bitter sadness, perhaps, but yet
this summer day when the sun is high
in a clear blue sky,  we can truly say,
“Heaven is here and now”.
370
Heaven is so far of the Mind
That were the Mind dissolved—
The Site—of it—by Architect
Could not again be proved—
'Tis vast—as our Capacity—
As fair—as our idea—
To Him of adequate desire
No further 'tis, than Here—
239
"Heaven"—is what I cannot reach!
The Apple on the Tree—
Provided it do hopeless—hang—
That—"He aven" is—to Me!
The Color, on the Cruising Cloud—
The interdicted Land—
Behind the Hill—the House behind—
There—Paradise—is found!
Her teasing Purples—Afternoons—
The credulous—decoy—
Enamored—of the Conjuror—
That spurned us—Yesterday!
A cloudless sky,
A friendly sea,
A single malt,
A glass and me
I want to go to heaven one of these days
Together, the King of heaven we must all praise
It is a place that was made for you and me
It is a place that we all are dwelling to be
The King of heaven,
He is the king of all the kings
With all his power,
He could make the heavens ring
Sing unto the Lord all ye land
As we all could see, the time is at hand
'No man is an Island'
'No man stand alone',
May the Lord keep blessing us from his royal throne
May the Lord be my shepherd
you can guide me to heaven
I would never be saved
if it were not for you.
But I ask you my Saviour
will you please ascertain
that the one they call Shepherd
stay asunder from you.
I don't know how in heaven
we will all get along
once we meet all the gangsters
and the ones with no schlong.
I'll apply for the work as
the cleaner of rubbish
thus  the chance will apply
they will tumble from heaven
let the bygones go by.
If you were twenty-seven
and had done time for beating
our ex-wife and had
no dreams you remembered
in the morning, you might
lie on your bed and listen
to a mad canary sing
and think it all right to be
there every Saturday
ignoring your neighbors, the streets,
the signs that said join,
and the need to be helping.
You might build, as he did,
a network of golden ladders
so that the bird could roam
on all levels of the room;
you might paint the ceiling blue,
the floor green, and shade
the place you called the sun
so that things came softly to order
when the light came on.
He and the bird lived
in the fine weather of heaven;
they never aged, they
never tired or wanted
all through that war,
but when it was over
and the nation had been saved,
he knew they'd be hunted.
He knew, as you would too,
that he'd be laid off
for not being braver
and it would do no good
to show how he had taken
clothespins and cardboard
and made each step safe.
It would do no good
to have been one of the few
that climbed higher and higher
even in time of war,
for now there would be the poor
asking for their share,
and hurt men in uniforms,
and no one to believe
that heaven was really here.
Fish (fly-replete, in depth of June,
Dawdling away their wat'ry noon)
Ponder deep wisdom, dark or clear,
Each secret fishy hope or fear.
Fish say, they have their Stream and Pond;
But is there anything Beyond?
This life cannot be All, they swear,
For how unpleasant, if it were!
One may not doubt that, somehow, Good
Shall come of Water and of Mud;
And, sure, the reverent eye must see
A Purpose in Liquidity.
We darkly know, by Faith we cry,
The future is not Wholly Dry.
Mud unto mud! -- Death eddies near --
Not here the appointed End, not here!
But somewhere, beyond Space and Time.
Is wetter water, slimier slime!
And there (they trust) there swimmeth One
Who swam ere rivers were begun,
Immense, of fishy form and mind,
Squamous, omnipotent, and kind;
And under that Almighty Fin,
The littlest fish may enter in.
Oh! never fly conceals a hook,
Fish say, in the Eternal Brook,
But more than mundane weeds are there,
And mud, celestially fair;
Fat caterpillars drift around,
And Paradisal grubs are found;
Unfading moths, immortal flies,
And the worm that never dies.
And in that Heaven of all their wish,
There shall be no more land, say fish.
Heaven, where the streets are made of gold,
Heaven, where you never age or grow old,
Heaven, where lifes secrets unfold,
Heaven, where the secrets are told,
Heaven, where flowers grow wild,
Heaven, once again your a child,
Heaven, the weathers always warm and mild,
Heaven, where wings lay open in piles,
Heaven, where we are free,
Heaven, cant you see?
Heaven, its for you and for me,
Heaven, when we are free.
What happens in heaven?
Will I sit on a cloud?
Is walking or talking
Or jumping allowed?
Will I be on my own
Or with some of my friends?
Does it go on for ever
Or eventually end?
What happens in heaven?
Will I play a harp's strings?
I can't play piano
I can't even sing.
Who chooses the music
That angels inspire?
Who does the auditions
For the heavenly choir?
What happens in heaven?
Are the streets paved with gold?
Is it crowded with people
Who're incredibly old?
Will I know who I am?
Will I know what I'm called?
If I pinch myself hard
Will I feel it at all?
What happens in heaven?
Do I go through a gate?
What if I get myself lost
Or turn up too late?
Is my name on a list?
Is the gatekeeper nice?
Can you sneak in for nothing
Or is there a price?
Take the Narrow Path
To Holy Trinity Turnpike
Turn righteous onto the Jesus Bridge
Go directly to Christ Crossing
Straight up to the Gates
Where eternity awaits
Heaven they say is the place to be
Up in the skies all I can see
are abstract clouds of glorious  seas
Heaven they say is a promised dream
An unseen paradise to me it seems
Which we see only in our dreams
Heaven they say is home
Every inch of it I wish to roam
Heaven they say is the promised land
For the righteous if you understand
Heaven they say is forever
It is forever and after and not never
But I say!
Heaven is the ultimate  reward
From the Almighty Lord
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
I HAVE drunk ale from the Country of the Young
And weep because I know all things now:
I have been a hazel-tree, and they hung
The Pilot Star and the Crooked Plough
Among my leaves in times out of mind:
I became a rush that horses tread:
I became a man, a hater of the wind,
Knowing one, out of all things, alone, that his head
May not lie on the breast nor his lips on thc hair
Of the woman that he loves, until he dies.
O beast of the wilderness, bird of the air,
Must I endure your amorous cries?
HAD I the heavens' embroidered cloths,
Enwrought with golden and silver light,
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half-light,
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.
If Love Is Heaven, And Sadness is Hell
I'm Used To This Sadness And Seperation
Heaven Is Far Away, I Accept Hell Today
I Have A Belief That A Thousand Flowers Will Bloom
And Then, This Hell Will Turn Into Heaven
Only When God Will Give back
My Dear One
My Destination
My Love.
*Hindi*
Agar Pyaar Ho Jannat, Aur Tanhai Ho Nark
Mujhe tanha karke judaai ki ho chali hai ek aadat
Jannat Hai Meelon Dur, Nark Bhi Hai Aaj Kabool.
Vishwaas Hai Mera ki khilemgey Saikadon Phool
Tab Nark Ban Jayega Jannat
Jab Mujhe Eshwar Lautadega
Meri Amanat
Meri Manzil
Mera Pyaar.
929
How far is it to Heaven?
As far as Death this way—
Of River or of Ridge beyond
Was no discovery.
How far is it to Hell?
As far as Death this way—
How far left hand the Sepulchre
Defies Topography.
Oh, once I walked in Heaven, all alone
Upon the sacred cliffs above the sky.
God and the angels, and the gleaming saints
Had journeyed out into the stars to die.
They had gone forth to win far citizens,
Bought at great price, bring happiness for all:
By such a harvest make a holier town
And put new life within old Zion's wall.
Each chose a far-off planet for his home,
Speaking of love and mercy, truth and right,
Envied and cursed, thorn-crowned and scourged in time,
Each tasted death on his appointed night.
Then resurrection day from sphere to sphere
Sped on, with all the POWERS arisen again,
While with them came in clouds recruited hosts
Of sun-born strangers and of earth-born men.
And on that day gray prophet saints went down
And poured atoning blood upon the deep,
Till every warrior of old Hell flew free
And all the torture fires were laid asleep.
And Hell's lost company I saw return
Clear-eyed, with plumes of white, the demons bold
Climbed with the angels now on Jacob's stair,
And built a better Zion than the old.
And yet I walked alone on azure cliffs
A lifetime long, and loved each untrimmed vine:
The rotted harps, the swords of rusted gold,
The jungles of all Heaven then were mine.
Oh mesas and throne-mountains that I found!
Oh strange and shaking thoughts that touched me there,
Ere I beheld the bright returning wings
That came to spoil my secret, silent lair!
I'd pull down heaven and wrap you in the Milky Way If I could,
For you are the sun, the moon, and the stars to me.
If I could, I'd roll the ocean back to lay Atlantis dry beneath your feet,
For you are the tide, the waves, and the sand to me.
At your request, I'd steal the Taj Mahal and languish in prison like Shaj Jahan,
For you are the seventh wonder of my world, a goddess, my everything.
Though I give you the elixir of life and die while you remain forever young, I will always love you!
I dream of a heaven overlooking the river Nile
The Pyramids at a distance
Fishermen in rickety feluccas
A blazing September sunset
And you sitting next to me
Your face touched with a smile
Questions and confessions
Musings and impressions
Self-expression without permission
Soul searching free of inhibition
First experiences with no apprehension
Bliss and content beyond comprehension
Time frozen as emotions flow
A sense of security with an afterglow
Feelings soaring in crescendo
Tender words and sweet innuendo
Stolen moments to forever cherish
Shared memories that will never perish
In heaven,
Some little blades of grass
Stood before God.
"What did you do?"
Then all save one of the little blades
Began eagerly to relate
The merits of their lives.
This one stayed a small way behind,
Ashamed.
Presently, God said,
"And what did you do?"
The little blade answered, "Oh my Lord,
Memory is bitter to me,
For, if I did good deeds,
I know not of them."
Then God, in all His splendor,
Arose from His throne.
"Oh, best little blade of grass!" He said.
There are so many times
when I see somebody that is old
I mean............very old
and the first thing I think of is............
''Can I give you a message
to take to my dad? ''
I have never had the nerve
to actually ask them.
But I want to.
Then, when they die......
I'm filled with regret.
I'm kicking myself
for missing the opportunity
to talk to my dad.
I've known many elderly people.
Most of them seem ready
to die and meet their maker.
Some of them even talk about it.
I choke on my words.
I try so hard to spit them out
but I can't.
I don't want to make them sad.
I don't want them to know
that I know they are going
to die soon.
I will send a message to heaven.
One day I will get the nerve
to ask somebody that knows
they will be there soon.
I'll ask them to ''look my dad up''
and ''Tell him I love him''.
Until then, I'll secretly wish
they could read my mind.
243
I've known a Heaven, like a Tent—
To wrap its shining Yards—
Pluck up its stakes, and disappear—
Without the sound of Boards
Or Rip of Nail—Or Carpenter—
But just the miles of Stare—
That signalize a Show's Retreat—
In North America—
No Trace—no Figment of the Thing
That dazzled, Yesterday,
No Ring—no Marvel—
Men, and Feats—
Dissolved as utterly—
As Bird's far Navigation
Discloses just a Hue—
A plash of Oars, a Gaiety—
Then swallowed up, of View.
I went to heaven,--
'T was a small town,
Lit with a ruby,
Lathed with down.
Stiller than the fields
At the full dew,
Beautiful as pictures
No man drew.
People like the moth,
Of mechlin, frames,
Duties of gossamer,
And eider names.
Almost contented
I could be
'Mong such unique
Society.
I would to heaven that I were so much clay,
As I am blood, bone, marrow, passion, feeling -
Because at least the past were passed away -
And for the future - (but I write this reeling,
Having got drunk exceedingly today,
So that I seem to stand upon the ceiling)
I say - the future is a serious matter -
And so - for God's sake - hock and soda water!
FIRST SPIRIT
Sister spirit, listen!
Methinks I hear a song,
Resounding strangely, sadly,
These peaceful plains along.
SECOND SPIRIT
'Tis like those lays we sang in earthly days,
When we trod our pilgrimage of pain;
FIRST SPIRIT
And earthlike are those values
Which chant the solemn strain:
CHORUS OF MORTALS
Low in the dust before Thee,
Great King of Kings, we fall!
Least of the host which adore Thee,
Do not despise our call!
From the paths of right,
We have wander'd, we have wander'd,
We have all gone astray;
In thy holy sight,
We are guilty, we are guilty --
We have all gone astray;
Yet hear us! hear us! hear us,
And cast us not away.
CHORUS OF ANGELS
Children of Earth! your pray'r is heard in Heaven,
Where Mercy heeds the softest whisper'd moan:
Ransom'd, arise! your sins are all forgiven,
Your Father saith who sitteth on the Throne:
And it is his gracious bidding:
"Bring forth the robes!" --
his heart of love was yearning
To greet repentant sons far away.
Lost once, but found!
We welcome their returning!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
FIRST SPIRIT
Sister spirit, yonder,
By that celestial gate,
What throngs of weary pilgrims,
In supplication wait.
SECOND SPIRIT
They know and yet how fondly those are met,
Who at last from wandering ways draw nigh --
FIRST SPIRIT
They know not yet how boundless
His love to whom they cry:
CHORUS OF MORTALS
No place claim we with the Holy,
Thronging thy blissfull halls;
Grant us a refuge lowly,
Graciously near these walls.
There on bended knees,
Tho' unworthy, most unworthy,
We will worship and pray;
Oh, hear us! hear us! hear us,
And cast us not away.
CHORUS OF ANGELS
Children of Earth! no more, in sadness bended,
You supplicate a distant Throne of Grace:
Ransom'd, arise! your days of prayer are ended --
You meet your waiting Father face to face:
For he sendeth heralds saying:
"Unfold the gates! -- with gladness come before us,
And to the royal seats to my guests convey."
Angels! begin the neverending chorus!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
And I heard, and I heard
as it were the voice of a great multitude,
and the voice of many waters,
and the voice of mighty thunderings,
say ---- - ing;
FULL CHORUS
Glory to God! Glory to God!
Glory to God in the highest!
QUARTETTE
He gathers his wanderers home
We welcome the last arrived one!
Oh, bles-sed employ!
our infinite joy (our infinte joy)
Is begun!
FULL CHORUS
Now will we sing to Thee
(to Thee) (to Thee) now will we sing,
Our Father, our Redeemer and our King,
New songs (our sweetest songs)
of praise (our purest praise)
Our choicest, noblest, most triumphant lays,
For ev - (-er, ever) -er
more (For ever more)
For ev - (-er, ever) -er more.
Praise ye the Lord
For ev - (-er, ever) -er more.
Lady of the Lake, your petticoats are better nets,
Bitter nets, finer woven, hoarding.
Wear robes, wear plaster, with a child held high.
The halo is tarnished. Waves, sand, will polish
To your preference.
Lady of the Lake, shake your hair, loosen torcs,
Let it drift free of it's hoard.
Clean. Comb the strands.
Wear veils that constrict, where nothing enters to
Shelter storms. Tides.
Hear no words to sway.
Lady of the Lake, open your hands, let gold flow.
Jewels float with night-lumin eyes, rainbow shells.
Wear no closed fingers by day or night.
No closed lips, unsmiling.
Release  words to call hope from the depths,
Not from Heaven.
There is no mortgage to pay
On Heaven.
Exactly what does one do in eternity?
Do you just walk around all day
in loose-fitting togas?
Is your soul in some kind of
infinite spiritual rush?
Now that would be pretty cool,
at least at first.
But it would probably get old
after awhile.
So... are there activities?
Like, can we sit at card tables
(probably on some chintzy foldout
chairs)    playing Texas Hold ‘em?
Do we get an eternal supply
of poker chips?
Personally, I'd like to opt out of
the Bingo games, you know,
and step outside for a smoke.
I certainly hope they have
TVs in eternity.
But I wonder, is it commercial-free
or does the Lord come on
every once in awhile
and congratulate you
for betting the right way?
Last night my soul cried, “O exalted sphere of Heaven, you hang indeed inverted, with flames in your belly.
“Without sin and crime, eternally revolving upon your body in its complaining is the indigo of mourning;
“Now happy, now unhappy, like Abraham in the fire; at once king and beggar like Ebrahim-e Adham.
“In your form you are terrifying, yet your state is full of anguish: you turn round like a millstone and writhe like a snake.”
Heaven the blessed replied, “How should I not fear that one who makes the Paradise of the world as Hell?
“In his hand earth is as wax, he makes it Zangi and Rumi , he makes it falcon and owl, he makes it sugar and poison.
“He is hidden, friend, and has set us forth thus patent so that he may become concealed.
“How should the ocean of the world be concealed under straws? The straws have been set adancing, the waves tumbling up and down’
“Your body is like the land floating on the waters of the soul; your soul is veiled in the body alike in wedding feast or sorrow.
“In the veil you are a new bride, hot-tempered and obstinate; he is railing sweetly at the good and the bad of the world.
“Through him the earth is a green meadow, the heavens are unresting; on every side through him a fortunate one pardoned and preserved.
“Reason a seeker of certainty through him, patience a seeker of help through him, love seeing the unseen through him, earth taking the form of Adam through him.
“Air seeking and searching, water hand-washing, we Messiah-like speaking, earth Mary-like silent.
“Behold the sea with its billows circling round the earthy ship; behold Kaabas and Meccas at the bottom of this well of Zamzam!”
The king says, “Be silent, do not cast yourself into the well, for you do not know how to make a bucket and a rope out of my withered stumps.
Standing in the frigid ice,
I shiver at the gust of cold daggers.
Why shall I pay the price,
When traitors were my so called brothers?
Fighting for my dearest country
With my fellow brothers, all so bravely
That’s when enemy bombs struck our bunkers
Drained were my captain’s colours.
Conspiracy, that’s what it was
Who had sold our war plan to the dogs?
When the shots died and so did soldiers
Captain held me by my collar.
Someone had played a dirty game
Secret papers were leaked and I was blamed
They called me war hero and now I was despised
All because of a bundle of lies.
Convicted for a crime that never was mine
I’d rather have died in fire’s line.
I rot in the jail and wait for release
But I have a few days life on lease.
I hope for the law to favour me
I wait to be proclaimed 'not guilty'
Badges taken and uniform shredded
Oh god, please end this dark ballad.
Everyone hates me, except my wife
For she knows I can never betray.
I know you can see the truth too
Then please send angels to my rescue.
Let the angels lead me to heaven
Play the trumpets, draw the curtain
I want peace and want to be respected
That I shall find only when I’m dead.
I will feel bad about leaving my wife
But she’ll be fine in a matter of time.
Lead me to heaven, end my life
Cause I haven’t slept well in a longtime.
(13 August 2007)
Prompt: Written for the title prompt 'lead me to heaven'
Mommy, Daddy, how I miss you
and I know you're missing me.
There are windows here in heaven
and every day I look and see
my toys all in the toybox
and my dolls up on the shelf
but I can't pull them in my wagon now
nor hold them to myself.
My little rocker's empty
and your arms feel empty too.
I can see the sadness in your face.
Mommy, Daddy, I love you.
My music box is quiet
but I don't need to hear it play.
Mommy, Daddy, it's not needed now -
angels here sing every day.
Please don't worry that I'm lonely,
there are children everywhere.
We are all His little angels
and there's so much love up here.
Mommy, Daddy, please don't cry for me,
heaven's such a lovely place.
God says you did your very best
and your love shows in my face.
Mommy, Daddy, when you need me
just look up and say a prayer.
I will see you through the windows
and I'll hear your voice up here.
Where is heaven? you ask me, my child,-the sages tell us it is
beyond the limits of birth and death, unswayed by the rhythm of day
and night; it is not of the earth.
But your poet knows that its eternal hunger is for time and
space, and it strives evermore to be born in the fruitful dust.
Heaven is fulfilled in your sweet body, my child, in your
palpitating heart.
The sea is beating its drums in joy, the flowers are a-tiptoe
to kiss you. For heaven is born in you, in the arms of the mother-
dust.
All things bright and beautiful,
All creatures great and small,
All things wise and wonderful,
The Lord God made them all.
Each little flower that opens,
Each little bird that sings,
He made their glowing colours,
He made their tiny wings.
The rich man in his castle,
The poor man at his gate,
God made them, high or lowly,
And ordered their estate.
The purple-headed mountain,
The river running by,
The sunset, and the morning,
That brightens up the sky;
The cold wind in the winter,
The pleasant summer sun,
The ripe fruits in the garden,
He made them every one.
The tall trees in the greenwood,
The meadows where we play,
The rushes by the water,
We gather every day;--
He gave us eyes to see them,
And lips that we might tell,
How great is God Almighty,
Who has made all things well.
'Marriages are made in heaven'
so say people in India
a good marriage can your life lengthen
it can be your ultimate good karma.
My marriage was made in hell
Bad karma from beginning to end
Kept me for years in a prison cell
Finally, I don't have to pretend.
My marriage was made in hell
no love or affection, felt like a bad spell
A bad marriage can ruin your life
For so many years, I had no life.
The hell marriage is now over
Promise I won't do it again, ever
I'm finally free from the shackles
Thought I'd be happy, but I see no sparkles.
All I'm left now with is wrinkles
My life's hard and full of struggles
Still, I find my freedom wonderful
And I will soon start feeling worthful.
Written on April 23,2007
To make a glass cup
It takes few minutes,
But to break it up,
It takes split seconds.
We smell the rose
Not by crushing it,
But thro' the nose,
By handling it soft.
The baby with care
Her mother fondles
As she wants to share
Her love with kisses.
Likewise, a marriage
That's made in Heaven,
Confirms a life bondage
Between man and woman.
Marriage's a sacred institution,
A bachelor wants to get in
But feeling it a great burden,
Thereafter, out he wants to run.
The wife's like a rose
The husband should feel,
And he is like a glass
With care she should handle.
Any divorce, will there be
If each one respects,
Whatever any difference be,
The other one's feelings?
Will the Heaven pardon
If they break their ties,
Violating its sanction,
For few silly reasons?
Why are there no tears in Heaven?
Will I forget all my fears in Heaven?
You walked out of your way
Wish you could have stayed…In Heaven
Your emotions are being past around
Got us to being down…Oh Heaven
On this narrow one-way road
Your decisions dusty and old…Not in Heaven
Heaven is a place, also a state,
It doth all things excel,
No man can fully it relate,
Nor of its glory tell.
God made it for his residence,
To sit on as a throne,
Which shows to us the excellence
Whereby it may be known.
Doubtless the fabric that was built
For this so great a king,
Must needs surprise thee, if thou wilt
But duly mind the thing.
If all that build do build to suit
The glory of their state,
What orator, though most acute,
Can fully heaven relate?
If palaces that princes build,
Which yet are made of clay,
Do so amaze when much beheld,
Of heaven what shall we say?
It is the high and holy place;
No moth can there annoy,
Nor make to fade that goodly grace
That saints shall there enjoy.
Mansions for glory and for rest
Do there prepared stand;
Buildings eternal for the blest
Are there provided, and
The glory and the comeliness
By deepest thought none may
With heart or mouth fully express,
Nor can before that day.
These heav'ns we see, be as a scroll,
Or garment folded up,
Before they do together roll,
And we call'd in to sup.
There with the king, the bridegroom, and
By him are led into
His palace chambers, there to stand
With his prospect to our view.
And taste and smell, and be inflam'd,
And ravished to see
The buildings he hath for us fram'd,
How full of heaven they be.
Its state also is marvellous,
For beauty to behold;
All goodness there is plenteous,
And better far than gold.
Adorn'd with grace and righteousness,
While fragrant scents of love
O'erflow with everlasting bliss,
All that do dwell above.
The heavenly majesty, whose face
Doth far exceed the sun,
Will there cast forth its rays of grace
After this world is done.
Which rays and beams will so possess
All things that there shall dwell,
With so much glory, light, and bliss,
That none can think or tell.
That wisdom which doth order all
Shall there be fully shown;
That strength that bears the world there shall
By every one be known.
That holiness and sanctity
Which doth all thought surpass,
Shall there in present purity
Outshine the crystal glass.
The beauty and the comeliness
Of this Almighty shall
Make amiable with lasting bliss
Those he thereto shall call.
The presence of this God will be
Eternal life in all,
And health and gladness, while we see
Thy face, O immortal!
Here will the Lord make clear and plain
How sweetly did agree
His attributes, when Christ was slain
Our Saviour to be.
How wisdom did find out the way,
How strength did make him stand,
How holiness did bear the sway,
And answer just demand.
How all these attributes did bend
Themselves to work our life,
Through the Christ whom God did send
To save us by his might.
All this will sparkle in our eye
Within the holy place,
And greatly raise our melody,
And flow our hearts with grace.
The largest thought that can arise
Within the widest heart
Shall then be filled with surprize,
And pleas'd in every part.
All mysteries shall here be seen,
And every knot, unty'd;
Electing love, that hid hath been,
Shall shine on every side.
The God of glory here will be
The life of every one;
Whose goodly attributes shall we
Possess them as our own.
By wisdom we all things shall know,
By light all things shall see,
By strength, too, all things we shall do,
When we in glory be.
The Holy Lamb of God, also,
Who for our sakes did die,
The holy ones of God shall know,
And that most perfectly.
Those small and short discoveries
That we have of him here,
Will there be seen with open eyes,
In visions full and clear.
Those many thousand acts of grace
That here we feel and find,
Shall there be real with open face
Upon his heart most kind.
There he will show us how he was
Our prophet, priest, and king;
And how he did maintain our cause,
And us to glory bring.
There we shall see how he was touch'd
With all our grief and pain
(As in his word he hath avouch'd),
When we with him shall reign;
He'll show us, also, how he did
Maintain our faith and love,
And why his face sometimes he hid
From us, who are his dove;
These tempting times that here we have,
We there shall see were good;
Also that hidden strength he gave,
The purchase of his blood.
That he should stand for us before
His Father, thus we read.
But then shall see, and shall adore
Him for his gracious deed.
Though we are vile, he without shame
Before the angels all
Lays out his strength, his worth, and name,
For us, who are in thrall.
This is he who was mock'd and beat,
Spit on, and crown'd with thorns;
Who for us had a bloody sweat,
Whose heart was broke with scorns.
'Tis he who stands so much our friend,
As shortly we shall see,
With open face, world without end,
And in his presence be.
That head that once was crown'd with thorns,
Shall now with glory shine;
That heart that broken was with scorns,
Shall flow with life divine;
That man that here met with disgrace,
We there shall see so bright;
That angels can't behold his face
For its exceeding light.
What gladness will possess our heart
When we shall see these things!
What light and life, in every part,
Will rise like lasting springs!
O blessed face and holy grace,
When shall we see this day?
Lord, fetch us to this goodly place
We humbly do thee pray.
Next to this Lamb we shall behold
All saints, both more and less,
With whit'ned robes in glory roll'd,
'Cause him they did confess.
Each walking in his righteousness
With shining crowns of gold,
Triumphing still in heav'nly bliss,
Amazing to behold.
Each person for his majesty
Doth represent a king;
Yea, angel-like for dignity,
And seraphims that sing.
Each motion of their mind, and so
Each twinkling of their eye;
Each word they speak, and step they go,
It is in purity.
Immortal are they every one,
Wrapt up in health and light,
Mortality from them is gone,
Weakness is turn'd to might.
The stars are not so clear as they,
They equalize the sun;
Their glory shines to perfect day,
Which day will ne'er be done.
No sorrow can them now annoy,
Nor weakness, grief or pain;
No faintness can abate their joy,
They now in life do reign.
They shall not there, as here, be vex'd
With Satan, men, or sin;
Nor with their wicked hearts perplex'd,
The heavens have cop'd[8] them in.
Thus, as they shine in their estate,
So, too, in their degree;
Which is most goodly to relate,
And ravishing to see.
The majesty whom they adore,
Doth them in wisdom place
Upon the thrones, and that before
The angels, to their grace.
The saints of the Old Testament,
Full right to their degree;
Likewise the New, in excellent
Magnificency be.
Each one his badge of glory wears,
According to his place;
According as was his affairs
Here, in the time of grace.
Some on the right hand of the Lamb,
Likewise some on the left,
With robes and golden chains do stand
Most grave, most sage, and deft.[9]
The martyr here is known from him
Who peaceably did die,
Both by the place he sitteth in,
And by his dignity.
Each father, saint, and prophet shall,
According to his worth,
Enjoy the honour of his call,
And plainly hold it forth.
Those bodies which sometimes were torn,
And bones that broken were
For God's word; he doth now adorn
With health and glory fair.
Thus, when in heav'nly harmony
These blessed saints appear,
Adorn'd with grace and majesty,
What gladness will be there!
The light, and grace, and countenance,
The least of these shall have,
Will so with terror them advance,
And make their face so grave,
That at them all the world will shake,
When they lift up their head;
Princes and kings will at them quake,
And fall before them dead.
This shall we see, thus shall we be,
O would the day were come,
Lord Jesus take us up to thee,
To this desired home.
Angels also we shall behold,
When we on high ascend,
Each shining like to men of gold,
And on the Lord attend.
These goodly creatures, full of grace,
Shall stand about the throne,
Each one with lightning in his face,
And shall to us be known.
These cherubims with one accord
Shall cry continually,
Ah, holy, holy, holy, Lord,
And heavenly majesty.
These will us in their arms embrace,
And welcome us to rest,
And joy to see us clad with grace,
And of the heavens possess'd.
This we shall hear, this we shall see,
While raptures take us up,
When we with blessed Jesus be,
And at his table sup.
Oh shining angels! what, must we
With you lift up our voice?
We must; and with you ever be,
And with you must rejoice.
Our friends that lived godly here,
Shall there be found again;
The wife, the child, and father dear,
With others of our train.
Each one down to the foot in white,
Fill'd to the brim with grace,
Walking among the saints in light,
With glad and joyful face.
Those God did use us to convert,
We there with joy shall meet,
And jointly shall, with all our heart,
In life each other greet.
A crown to them we then shall be,
A glory and a joy;
And that before the Lord, when he
The world comes to destroy.
This is the place, this is the state,
Of all that fear the Lord;
Which men nor angels may relate
With tongue, or pen, or word.
No night is here, for to eclipse
Its spangling rays so bright;
Nor doubt, nor fear to shut the lips,
Of those within this light.
The strings of music here are tun'd
For heavenly harmony,
And every spirit here perfum'd
With perfect sanctity.
Here runs the crystal streams of life,
Quite through all our veins.
And here by love we do unite
With glory's golden chains.
Now that which sweet'neth all will be
The lasting of this state;
This heightens all we hear or see
To a transcendant rate.
For should the saints enjoy all this
But for a certain time,
O, how would they their mark then miss,
And at this thing repine?
Yea, 'tis not possible that they
Who then shall dwell on high,
Should be content, unless they may
Dwell there eternally.
A thought of parting with this place
Would bitter all their sweet,
And darkness put upon the face
Of all they there do meet.
But far from this the saints shall be,
Their portion is the Lord,
Whose face for ever they shall see,
As saith the holy word.
And that with everlasting peace,
Joy, and felicity,
From this time forth they shall increase
Unto eternity.
One year in heaven,
One year you've been there,
So far away,
Someday I'll see you in the air,
One year in heaven,
I miss you so much,
Smile down upon me,
And show me your love.
One year in heaven,
It seems like so long,
Since the last time I saw you,
And then you were gone,
One year in heaven,
You left earth to soon,
But I know they need you,
More then I do,
One year in heaven,
I'm alone on the earth,
I miss your sweet kisses,
And all that you're worth,
One year in heaven,
Is God really there?
Why did he take you,
As I cried in despair.
One year in heaven,
I still see your face,
The day that you took,
The last breath you would take,
One year in heaven,
Why did you die,
I know God needed you,
But still I cry.
One year in heaven,
Soon I'll be there,
So wait by the gate,
Please, this do swear,
One year in heaven,
To me it is long,
But you have no pain,
From this earth you have gone.
One year in heaven,
It's so hard to move on,
I'll send you a prayer,
And sing you a song,
One year in heaven,
Life's not the same,
Since you left this world,
I'm living in a daze.
One year in heaven,
You watch from above,
Sit there and smile,
And send me your love,
One year in heaven,
You may think it's just a day,
But this world is so different,
Since God took you away
I am being taken to the royal dungeon.
I will be killed there tonight,
For a crime I never committed,
For an action I never thought of.
My heart throbs with pain,
For I am not the criminal,
The criminal they’ve named me as.
What is the crime I committed?
“He has stolen the Queen’s necklace, they say.
I’ve not looked at her highness with my head high,
Little did I see her necklace!
I’ve fulfilled my duties, Most honestly to date,
As the custodian of the Queen’s chamber,
Being the Guardsman of the Royal Lady.
To be humble was my principle.
Responsibility was my slogan.
Not once did I sleep,
As the blue blooded Lady was asleep.
Not once did I fail to bow before her.
And this is what I receive,
As reward for my sincerity.
This is a masquerade;
The culprits are behind masks,
Masks of innocence.
They closed the eyes of justice,
With nothing but position.
There arouse a tie in the royal court;
Between virtues and position,
Needless to say, position took over.
I am just a common man,
A mere servant of the King.
But is my life so worthless?
Worthless than a necklace?
My hands are tied together,
The black hood is lowered
And it is time for the execution.
Alas! I have not lost faith,
The lord will see me,
See me at the gates of Heaven.
Me, a servant so loyal,
A true believer of the creator.
Faith is what I have,
To leave behind as a treasure
For my fellow commoners.
They are Dullards! You see,
Who believe they escaped.
The lord sees us all,
Our actions accompanied with.
He sees us through the clouds,
From The Heavens above earth.
As death nears, I fear not.
Despair does not overcome me,
For today I am made the criminal,
Tomorrow they will be the same.
They’ll be criminals too,
Not in the eyes of earthly creatures
But, at the doorstep of the Almighty.
They’ll be deceived at the gates of Heaven.
The rope is being lowered
Oh! I am hanged!
I’ve left my earthly body,
It is just a corpse now.
Yes!  The Angels are here,
Here to take me to Heaven.
I’m on my way to see Him,
Him, The lord of Lords.
Adieu! Adieu to the Royal Fools! ! !
Praise, my soul, the King of Heaven;
To His feet Thy tribute bring!
Ransomed, healed, restored, forgiven,
Who like me His praise should sing?
Praise Him! praise Him!
Praise the everlasting King!
Praise Him for His grace and favour,
To our fathers in distress!
Praise Him still the same for ever,
Slow to chide, and swift to bless!
Praise Him! praise Him!
Glorious in His faithfulness!
Father-like, He tends and spares us;
Well our feeble frame He knows.
In His hands He gently bears us,
Rescues us from all our foes,
Praise Him! praise Him!
Widely as His mercy flows!
Frail as summer's flower we flourish:
Blows the wind, and it is gone.
But while mortals rise and perish,
God endures unchanging on.
Praise Him, Praise Him,
Praise the high eternal One!
Angels, help us to adore Him;
Ye behold Him face to face:
Sun and moon, bow down before Him;
Dwellers all in time and space,
Praise Him! praise Him!
Praise with us the God of grace!
In seed time learn, in harvest teach, in winter enjoy.
Drive your cart and your plow over the bones of the dead.
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.
Prudence is a rich, ugly old maid courted by Incapacity.
He who desires but acts not, breeds pestilence.
The cut worm forgives the plow.
Dip him in the river who loves water.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees.
He whose face gives no light, shall never become a star.
Eternity is in love with the productions of time.
The busy bee has no time for sorrow.
The hours of folly are measur'd by the clock; but of wisdom, no clock can measure.
All wholesome food is caught without a net or a trap.
Bring out number, weight and measure in a year of dearth.
No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings.
A dead body revenges not injuries.
The most sublime act is to set another before you.
If the fool would persist in his folly he would become wise.
Folly is the cloak of knavery.
Shame is Pride's cloke.
Prisons are built with stones of law, brothels with bricks of religion.
The pride of the peacock is the glory of God.
The lust of the goat is the bounty of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom of God.
The nakedness of woman is the work of God.
Excess of sorrow laughs. Excess of joy weeps.
The roaring of lions, the howling of wolves, the raging of the stormy sea, and the destructive sword, are portions of eternity, too great for the eye of man.
The fox condemns the trap, not himself.
Joys impregnate. Sorrows bring forth.
Let man wear the fell of the lion, woman the fleece of the sheep.
The bird a nest, the spider a web, man friendship.
The selfish, smiling fool, and the sullen, frowning fool shall be both thought wise, that they may be a rod.
What is now proved was once only imagin'd.
The rat, the mouse, the fox, the rabbit watch the roots; the lion, the tyger, the horse, the elephant watch the fruits.
The cistern contains: the fountain overflows.
One thought fills immensity.
Always be ready to speak your mind, and a base man will avoid you.
Every thing possible to be believ'd is an image of truth.
The eagle never lost so much time as when he submitted to learn of the crow.
The fox provides for himself, but God provides for the lion.
Think in the morning. Act in the noon. Eat in the evening. Sleep in the night.
He who has suffer'd you to impose on him, knows you.
As the plow follows words, so God rewards prayers.
The tygers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.
Expect poison from the standing water.
You never know what is enough unless you know what is more than enough.
Listen to the fool's reproach! it is a kingly title!
The eyes of fire, the nostrils of air, the mouth of water, the beard of earth.
The weak in courage is strong in cunning.
The apple tree never asks the beech how he shall grow; nor the lion, the horse, how he shall take his prey.
The thankful receiver bears a plentiful harvest.
If others had not been foolish, we should be so.
The soul of sweet delight can never be defil'd.
When thou seest an eagle, thou seest a portion of genius; lift up thy head!
As the caterpiller chooses the fairest leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest lays his curse on the fairest joys.
To create a little flower is the labour of ages.
Damn braces. Bless relaxes.
The best wine is the oldest, the best water the newest.
Prayers plow not! Praises reap not!
Joys laugh not! Sorrows weep not!
The head Sublime, the heart Pathos, the genitals Beauty, the hands and feet Proportion.
As the air to a bird or the sea to a fish, so is contempt to the contemptible.
The crow wish'd every thing was black, the owl that every thing was white.
Exuberance is Beauty.
If the lion was advised by the fox, he would be cunning.
Improvement makes strait roads; but the crooked roads without improvement are roads of genius.
Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than nurse unacted desires.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Truth can never be told so as to be understood, and not be believ'd.
Enough! or too much.
Somebody Left A Light On For Me In Heaven
(Dedicated to my Family, and Maya Angelou)
Somebody left a light on for me in heaven so I can find my way home
I’ve been searching and searching for the place I belong
Somebody left a light on for me in heaven because they cared enough for me,
That light is left on,
Now I can see
I can see my way through the pain and the mistrust
Through faith and obedience
Christ is the just
He is the just for all
He won’t let you fall
Somebody left a light on; yes I say this with a smile on my face
His love and compassion
I will daily embrace
That light is so bright, I can see through and through
At night He says my child take a rest
I left the light on
Because my Son the Christ died for you
November 15,2006
Atlanta, Georgia
The stairway to heaven
Lies way beyond my soul,
Far-away from my heart,
And out of my control.
As I pass each second,
Of every single day,
I take steps to travel,
This far and distant way.
The stairway to heaven
Leads to a final goal,
When earthly life's absorbed
Via blending of the whole.
©   Ernestine Northover
Drifting on wings of an agnel,
The stairway to Heaven unfolds,
The steps leading up to a city,
The pathways transparent of gold.
At the base of the ascending staircase,
A lamb sits soft at the door,
Surrounded by lilies and lions,
Grace has transcended the roars.
The Lamb offers peace in His presence,
Your fears He'll caress like a dove,
The soft gentle fleece of His body,
Will cover you up in His love.
Then soft as the wings of an agnel,
He'll carry your cares to the door,
The Lamb knows the steps of the staircase,
He's traveled this pathway before.
The bright shining lights at the entrance,
Glowing like elegant gems,
Reflect the love of His shepherd,
As he beckons His Lamb to come in.
All of your burdens and heartaches,
Which the Lamb has offered to bear,
He lays at the feet of the Shepherd,
Whose love has invited them there.
Then drifting on wings of an angel,
The stairway to Heaven descends,
The powerful peace of the Lion,
Waiting soft in the heart of the Lamb.
388
Take your Heaven further on—
This—to Heaven divine Has gone—
Had You earlier blundered in
Possibly, e'en You had seen
An Eternity—put on—
Now—to ring a Door beyond
Is the utmost of Your Hand—
To the Skies—apologize—
Nearer to Your Courtesies
Than this Sufferer polite—
Dressed to meet You—
See—in White!
SUDDENLY I saw the cold and rook-delighting heaven
That seemed as though ice burned and was but the more ice,
And thereupon imagination and heart were driven
So wild that every casual thought of that and this
Vanished, and left but memories, that should be out of season
With the hot blood of youth, of love crossed long ago;
And I took all thc blame out of all sense and reason,
Until I cried and trembled and rocked to and fro,
Riddled with light.  Ah! when the ghost begins to quicken,
Confusion of the death-bed over, is it sent
Out naked on the roads, as the books say, and stricken
By the injustice of the skies for punishment?
The little girl
stood in
the meadow.
She had been
asked by God
to raise her eyes
and look to him,
And so she did.
Soon gold and silver
came raining
down from Heaven,
it was a veritable
deluge.
While she rejoiced
and raised her skirt
to catch the coins
the dirt claws
of Lucifer
reached through
the moss and
curled up leaves.
So silently
and filled with
invisibility.
And with the stench
of sulfur
surrounding her
and all the riches
she never knew
when slowly,
imperceptibly,
with certainty,
her nickers,
sweetly embroidered
just a week ago
by Nana,
were taken
by filthy hands
while angels
watched
with kindness.
Here they are.  The soft eyes open.
If they have lived in a wood
It is a wood.
If they have lived on plains
It is grass rolling
Under their feet forever.
Having no souls, they have come,
Anyway, beyond their knowing.
Their instincts wholly bloom
And they rise.
The soft eyes open.
To match them, the landscape flowers,
Outdoing, desperately
Outdoing what is required:
The richest wood,
The deepest field.
For some of these,
It could not be the place
It is, without blood.
These hunt, as they have done,
But with claws and teeth grown perfect,
More deadly than they can believe.
They stalk more silently,
And crouch on the limbs of trees,
And their descent
Upon the bright backs of their prey
May take years
In a sovereign floating of joy.
And those that are hunted
Know this as their life,
Their reward: to walk
Under such trees in full knowledge
Of what is in glory above them,
And to feel no fear,
But acceptance, compliance.
Fulfilling themselves without pain
At the cycle’s center,
They tremble, they walk
Under the tree,
They fall, they are torn,
They rise, they walk again.
694
The Heaven vests for Each
In that small Deity
It craved the grace to worship
Some bashful Summer's Day—
Half shrinking from the Glory
It importuned to see
Till these faint Tabernacles drop
In full Eternity—
How imminent the Venture—
As one should sue a Star—
For His mean sake to leave the Row
And entertain Despair—
A Clemency so common—
We almost cease to fear—
Enabling the minutest—
And furthest—to adore—
I fled Him down the nights and down the days
I fled Him down the arches of the years
I fled Him down the labyrinthine ways
Of my own mind, and in the midst of tears
I hid from him, and under running laughter.
Up vistaed hopes I sped and shot precipitated
Adown titanic glooms of chasme d hears
From those strong feet that followed, followed after
But with unhurrying chase and unperturbe d pace,
Deliberate speed, majestic instancy,
They beat, and a Voice beat,
More instant than the feet:
All things betray thee who betrayest me.
I pleaded, outlaw--wise by many a hearted casement,
curtained red, trellised with inter-twining charities,
For though I knew His love who followe d,
Yet was I sore adread, lest having Him,
I should have nought beside.
But if one little casement parted wide,
The gust of his approach would clash it to.
Fear wist not to evade as Love wist to pursue.
Across the margent of the world I fled,
And troubled the gold gateways of the stars,
Smiting for shelter on their clange d bars,
Fretted to dulcet jars and silvern chatter
The pale ports of the moon.
I said to Dawn --- be sudden, to Eve --- be soon,
With thy young skiey blossoms heap me over
From this tremendous Lover.
Float thy vague veil about me lest He see.
I tempted all His servitors but to find
My own betrayal in their constancy,
In faith to Him, their fickleness to me,
Their traitorous trueness and their loyal deceit.
To all swift things for swiftness did I sue,
Clung to the whistling mane of every wind,
But whether they swept, smoothly fleet,
The long savannahs of the blue,
Or whether, thunder-driven,
They clanged His chariot thwart a heaven,
Plashy with flying lightnings round the spurn of their feet,
Fear wist not to evade as Love wist to pursue.
Still with unhurrying chase and unperturbed pace
Deliberate speed, majestic instancy,
Came on the following feet, and a Voice above their beat:
Nought shelters thee who wilt not shelter Me.
I sought no more that after which I strayed
In face of Man or Maid.
But still within the little childrens' eyes
Seems something, something that replies,
They at least are for me, surely for me.
But just as their young eyes grew sudden fair,
With dawning answers there,
Their angel plucked them from me by the hair.
Come then, ye other children, Nature's
Share with me, said I, your delicate fellowship.
Let me greet you lip to lip,
Let me twine with you caresses,
Wantoning with our Lady Mother's vagrant tresses,
Banqueting with her in her wind walled palace,
Underneath her azured dai:s,
Quaffing, as your taintless way is,
From a chalice, lucent weeping out of the dayspring.
So it was done.
I in their delicate fellowship was one.
Drew the bolt of Nature's secrecies,
I knew all the swift importings on the wilful face of skies,
I knew how the clouds arise,
Spume d of the wild sea-snortings.
All that's born or dies,
Rose and drooped with,
Made them shapers of mine own moods, or wailful, or Divine.
With them joyed and was bereaven.
I was heavy with the Even,
when she lit her glimmering tapers round the day's dead sanctities.
I laughed in the morning's eyes.
I triumphed and I saddened with all weather,
Heaven and I wept together,
and its sweet tears were salt with mortal mine.
Against the red throb of its sunset heart,
I laid my own to beat
And share commingling heat.
But not by that, by that was eased my human smart.
In vain my tears were wet on Heaven's grey cheek.
For ah! we know what each other says,
these things and I; In sound I speak,
Their sound is but their stir, they speak by silences.
Nature, poor step-dame, cannot slake my drouth.
Let her, if she would owe me
Drop yon blue-bosomed veil of sky
And show me the breasts o' her tenderness.
Never did any milk of hers once bless my thirsting mouth.
Nigh and nigh draws the chase, with unperturbe d pace
Deliberate speed, majestic instancy,
And past those noise d feet, a Voice comes yet more fleet:
Lo, nought contentst thee who content'st nought Me.
Naked, I wait thy Love's uplifted stroke. My harness, piece by piece,
thou'st hewn from me
And smitten me to my knee,
I am defenceless, utterly.
I slept methinks, and awoke.
And slowly gazing, find me stripped in sleep.
In the rash lustihead of my young powers,
I shook the pillaring hours,
and pulled my life upon me.
Grimed with smears,
I stand amidst the dust o' the mounded years--
My mangled youth lies dead beneath the heap.
My days have crackled and gone up in smoke,
Have puffed and burst like sunstarts on a stream.
Yeah, faileth now even dream the dreamer
and the lute, the lutanist.
Even the linked fantasies in whose blossomy twist,
I swung the Earth, a trinket at my wrist,
Have yielded, cords of all too weak account,
For Earth, with heavy grief so overplussed.
Ah! is thy Love indeed a weed,
albeit an Amaranthine weed,
Suffering no flowers except its own to mount?
Ah! must, Designer Infinite,
Ah! must thou char the wood 'ere thou canst limn with it ?
My freshness spent its wavering shower i' the dust.
And now my heart is as a broken fount,
Wherein tear-drippings stagnate, spilt down ever
From the dank thoughts that shiver upon the sighful branches of my
mind.
Such is. What is to be ?
The pulp so bitter, how shall taste the rind ?
I dimly guess what Time in mists confounds,
Yet ever and anon, a trumpet sounds
From the hid battlements of Eternity.
Those shaken mists a space unsettle,
Then round the half-glimpse d turrets, slowly wash again.
But not 'ere Him who summoneth
I first have seen, enwound
With glooming robes purpureal; Cypress crowned.
His name I know, and what his trumpet saith.
Whether Man's Heart or Life it be that yield thee harvest,
Must thy harvest fields be dunged with rotten death ?
Now of that long pursuit,
Comes at hand the bruit.
That Voice is round me like a bursting Sea:
And is thy Earth so marred,
Shattered in shard on shard?
Lo, all things fly thee, for thou fliest me.
Strange, piteous, futile thing;
Wherefore should any set thee love apart?
Seeing none but I makes much of Naught (He said).
And human love needs human meriting ---
How hast thou merited,
Of all Man's clotted clay, the dingiest clot.
Alack! Thou knowest not
How little worthy of any love thou art.
Whom wilt thou find to love ignoble thee,
Save me, save only me?
All which I took from thee, I did'st but take,
Not for thy harms,
But just that thou might'st seek it in my arms.
All which thy childs mistake fancies as lost,
I have stored for thee at Home.
Rise, clasp my hand, and come.
Halts by me that Footfall.
Is my gloom, after all,
Shade of His hand, outstretched caressingly?
Ah, Fondest, Blindest, Weakest,
I am He whom thou seekest.
Thou dravest Love from thee who dravest Me.
696
Their Height in Heaven comforts not—
Their Glory—nought to me—
'Twas best imperfect—as it was—
I'm finite—I can't see—
The House of Supposition—
The Glimmering Frontier that
Skirts the Acres of Perhaps—
To Me—shows insecure—
The Wealth I had—contented me—
If 'twas a meaner size—
Then I had counted it until
It pleased my narrow Eyes—
Better than larger values—
That show however true—
This timid life of Evidence
Keeps pleading—"I don't know."
THE ARGUMENT
RINTRAH roars and shakes his
fires in the burdenM air,
Hungry clouds swag on the deep.
Once meek, and in a perilous path
The just man kept his course along
The Vale of Death.
Roses are planted where thorns grow,
And on the barren heath
Sing the honey bees.
Then the perilous path was planted,
And a river and a spring
On every cliff and tomb;
5
THE MARRIAGE OF
And on the bleached bones
Red clay brought forth:
Till the villain left the paths of ease
To walk in perilous paths, and drive
The just man into barren climes.
Now the sneaking serpent walks
In mild humility ;
And the just man rages in the wilds
Where Uons roam.
Rintrah roars and shakes his fires in
the burdened air,
Hungry clouds swag on the deep.
As a new heaven is begun, and it is
now thirty-three years since its advent,
the Eternal Hell revives. And lo!
Swedenborg is the angel sitting at
the tomb: his writings are the Unen
clothes folded up. Now is the domin-
ion of Edom, and the return of Adam
into Paradise. — See Isaiah xxxiv. and
XXXV. chap.
6
HEAVEN AND HELL
Without contraries is no progres-
sion. Attraction and repulsion, rea-
son and energy, love and hate, are
necessary to human existence.
From these contraries spring what
the religious call Good and Evil.
Good is the passive that obeys reason;
Evil is the active springing from
Energy.
Good is heaven. Evil is hell.
THE MARRIAGE OF
THE VOICE OF THE DEVIL
All Bibles or sacred codes have been
the cause of the following errors : —
1. That man has two real existing
principles, viz., a Body and a Soul.
2. That Energy, called Evil, is alone
from the Body ; and that Reason, called
Good, is alone from the Soul.
3. That God will torment man in
Eternity for following his Energies.
But the following contraries to
these are true : —
1 . Man has no Body distinct from his
Soul. For that called Body is a por-
tion of Soul discerned by the five senses,
the chief inlets of Soul in this age.
2 . Energy is the only life , and is from
the Body; and Reason is the bound
or outward circumference of Energy.
8
HEAVEN AND HELL
3. Energy is Eternal Delight.
Those who restrain desire, do so
because theirs is weak enough to be
restrained; and the restrainer or
reason usurps its place and governs
the unwilling.
And being restrained, it by degrees
becomes passive, till it is only the
shadow of desire.
The history of this is written in
Paradise Lost, and the Governor or
Reason is called Messiah.
And the original Archangel or pos-
sessor of the command of the heavenly
host is called the Devil, or Satan, and
his children are called Sin and Death.
But in the book of Job, Milton's
Messiah is called Satan.
For this history has been adopted by
both parties.
It indeed appeared to Reason as if
9
THE MARRIAGE OF
desire was cast out, but the Devil's
account is, that the Messiah fell, and
formed a heaven of what he stole from
the abyss.
This is shown in the Gospel, where
he prays to the Father to send the
Comforter or desire that Reason may
have ideas to build on, the Jehovah
of the Bible being no other than he
who dwells in flaming fire. Know
that after Christ's death he became
Jehovah.
But in Milton, the Father is Destiny,
the Son a ratio of the five senses, and
the Holy Ghost vacuum !
Note. — The reason Milton wrote
in fetters when he wrote of Angels
and God, and at Uberty when of
Devils and Hell, is because he was
a true poet, and of the Devil's party
without knowing it.
10
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
As I was walking among the fires
of Hell, delighted with the enjoyments
of Genius, which to Angels look like
torment and insanity, I collected some
of their proverbs, thinking that as the
sayings used in a nation mark its
character, so the proverbs of Hell show
the nature of infernal wisdom better
than any description of buildings or
garments.
When I came home, on the abyss
of the five senses, where a flat-sided
steep frowns over the present world, I
saw a mighty Devil folded in black
clouds hovering on the sides of the
rock; with corroding fires he wrote
the following sentence now perceived
by the minds of men, and read by
them on earth : —
II
THE MARRIAGE OF
'How do you know but every bird
that cuts the airy way
Is an immense world of delight,
closed by your senses five?'
12
HEAVEN AND HELL
PROVERBS OF HELL
In seed-time learn, in harvest teach,
in winter enjoy.
Drive your cart and your plough
over the bones of the dead.
The road of excess leads to the
palace of wisdom.
Prudence is a rich ugly old maid
courted by Incapacity.
He who desires, but acts not, breeds
pestilence.
The cut worm forgives the plough.
Dip him in the river who loves
water.
A fool sees not the same tree that a
wise man sees.
He whose face gives no light shall
never become a star.
13
THE MARRIAGE OF
Eternity is in love with the produc-
tions of time.
The busy bee has no time for sor-
row.
The hours of folly are measured by
the clock, but of wisdom no clock can
measure.
All wholesome food is caught with-
out a net or a trap.
Bring out number, weight, and
measure in a year of dearth.
No bird soars too high if he soars
with his own wings.
A dead body revenges not injuries.
The most sublime act is to set an-
other before you.
If the fool would persist in his folly
he would become wise.
Folly is the cloak of knavery.
Shame is Pride's cloak.
14
HEAVEN AND HELL
Prisons are built with stones of law,
brothels with bricks of religion.
The pride of the peacock is the
glory of God.
The lust of the goat is the bounty
of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom
of God.
The nakedness of woman is the
work of God.
Excess of sorrow laughs, excess of
joy weeps.
The roaring of lions, the howling of
wolves, the raging of the stormy sea,
and the destructive sword, are por-
tions of Eternity too great for the eye
of man.
The fox condemns the trap, not
himself.
Joys impregnate, sorrows bring
forth.
15
THE MARRIAGE OF
Let man wear the fell of the lion,
woman the fleece of the sheep.
The bird a nest, the spider a web,
man friendship.
The selfish smiling fool and the
sullen frowning fool shall be both
thought wise that they may be a rod.
What is now proved was once only
imagined.
The rat, the mouse, the fox, the
rabbit watch the roots; the Hon, the
tiger, the horse, the elephant watch
the fruits.
The cistern contains, the fountain
overflows.
One thought fills immensity.
Always be ready to speak your
mind, and a base man will avoid you.
Everything possible to be believed
is an image of truth.
The eagle never lost so much time
z6
HEAVEN AND HELL
as when he submitted to learn of the
crow.
The fox provides for himself, but
God provides for the lion.
Think in the morning, act in the
noon, eat in the evening, sleep in the
night.
He who has suffered you to impose
on him knows you.
As the plough follows words, so
God rewards prayers.
The tigers of wrath are wiser than
the horses of instruction.
Expect poison from the standing
water.
You never know what is enough
unless you know what is more than
enough.
Listen to the fool's reproach; it is a
kingly title.
The eyes of fire, the nostrils of air,
17
THE MARRIAGE OF
the mouth of water, the beard of
earth.
The weak in courage is strong in
cunning.
The apple tree never asks the beech
how he shall grow, nor the lion the
horse how he shall take his prey.
The thankful receiver bears a plenti-
ful harvest.
If others had not been foolish we
should have been so.
The soul of sweet delight can never
be defiled.
When thou seest an eagle, thou
seest a portion of Genius. Lift up thy
head!
As the caterpillar chooses the fairest
leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest
lays his curse on the fairest joys.
To create a little flower is the labour
of ages.
i8
HEAVEN AND HELL
Damn braces; bless relaxes.
The best wine is the oldest, the best
water the newest.
Prayers plough not; praises reap
not; joys laugh not; sorrows weep
not.
The head Sublime, the heart Pathos,
the genitals Beauty, the hands and
feet Proportion.
As the air to a bird, or the sea
to a fish, so is contempt to the con-
temptible.
The crow wished everything was
black; the owl that everything was
white.
Exuberance is Beauty.
If the lion was advised by the fox,
he would be cunning.
Improvement makes straight roads,
but the crooked roads without Improve-
ment are roads of Genius.
19
THE MARRIAGE OF
Sooner murder an infant in its
cradle than nurse unacted desires.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Truth can never be told so as to be
understood and not to be believed.
Enough! or Too much.
The ancient poets animated all sen-
sible objects with Gods or Geniuses,
calling them by the names and adorn-
ing them with properties of woods,
rivers, mountains, lakes, cities, na-
tions, and whatever their enlarged
and numerous senses could perceive.
And particularly they studied the
Genius of each city and country,
placing it under its mental deity. Till
a system was formed, which some
took advantage of and enslaved the
vulgar by attempting to realize or
abstract the mental deities from their
objects. Thus began Priesthood.
20
HEAVEN AND HELL
Choosing forms of worship from
poetic tales. And at length they pro-
nounced that the Gods had ordered
such things. Thus men forgot that
all deities reside in the human breast.
21
THE MARRIAGE OF
A MEMORABLE FANCY
The Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel
dined with me, and I asked them how
they dared so roundly to assert that
God spoke to them, and whether they
did not think at the time that they
would be misunderstood, and so be
the cause of imposition.
Isaiah answered: 'I saw no God,
nor heard any, in a finite organical
perception: but my senses discovered
the infinite in everything; and as I
was then persuaded, and remained
confirmed, that the voice of honest
indignation is the voice of God, I cared
not for consequences, but wrote.'*
Then I asked: 'Does a firm per-
suasion that a thing is so, make it
so?'
He replied: 'All poets believe that
22
HEAVEN AND HELL
it does, and in ages of imagination
this firm persuasion removed moun-
tains; but many are not capable of a
firm persuasion of anything.'
Then Ezekiel said : ' The philosophy
of the East taught the first principles
of human perception; some nations
held one principle for the origin, and
some another. We of Israel taught
that the Poetic Genius (as you now
call it) was the first principle, and all
the others merely derivative, which
was the cause of our despising the
Priests and Philosophers of other
countries, and prophesying that all
Gods would at last be proved to origi-
nate in ours, and to be the tributaries
of the Poetic Genius. It was this that
our great poet King David desired so
fervently, and invokes so pathetically,
saying by this he conquers enemies
and governs kingdoms; and we so
loved our Ggd that we cursed in His
i3
THE MARRIAGE OF
name all the deities of surrounding
nations, and asserted that they had
rebelled. From these opinions the
vulgar came to think that all nations
would at last be subject to the Jews.
'This,' said he, 'like all firm per-
suasions, is come to pass, for all
nations believe the Jews' code, and
worship the Jews' God; and what
greater subjection can be?'
I heard this with some wonder, and
must confess my own conviction.
After dinner I asked Isaiah to favour
the world with his lost works; he said
none of equal value was lost. Ezekiel
said the same of his.
I also asked Isaiah what made him
go naked and barefoot three years.
He answered: 'The same that made
our friend Diogenes the Grecian.'
I then asked Ezekiel why he ate
dung, and lay so long on his right and
24
HEAVEN AND HELL
left side. He answered: 'The desire
of raising other men into a perception
of the infinite. This the North Ameri-
can tribes practise. And is he honest
who resists his genius or conscience,
only for the sake of present ease or
gratification?'
The ancient tradition that the world
will be consumed in fire at the end of
six thousand years is true, as I have
heard from Hell.
For the cherub with his flaming
sword is hereby commanded to leave
his guard at [the] tree of life, and
when he does, the whole creation will
be consumed and appear infinite and
holy, whereas it now appears finite
and corrupt.
This will come to pass by an im-
provement of sensual enjoyment.
But first the notion that man has
25
THE MARRIAGE OF
a body distinct from his soul is to be
expunged; this I shall do by printing
in the infernal method by corrosives,
which in Hell are salutary and medici-
nal, melting apparent surfaces away,
and displaying the infinite which was
hid.
If the doors of perception were
cleansed everything would appear to
man as it is, infinite.
For man has closed himself up, till
he sees all things through narrow
chinks of his cavern.
26
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
I was in a printing-house in Hell,
and saw the method in which knowl-
edge is transmitted from generation
to generation.
In the first chamber was a dragon-
man, clearing away the rubbish from
a cave's mouth; within, a number of
dragons were hollowing the cave.
In the second chamber was a viper
folding round the rock and the cave,
and others adorning it with gold, silver,
and precious stones.
In the third chamber was an eagle
with wings and feathers of air; he
caused the inside of the cave to be
infinite; around were numbers of
eagle-like men, who built palaces in
the immense cliffs.
In the fourth chamber were lions
27
THE MARRIAGE OF
of flaming fire raging around and
melting the metals into living fluids.
In the fifth chamber were unnamed
forms, which cast the metals into the
expanse.
There they were received by men
who occupied the sixth chamber, and
took the forms of books, and were
arranged in libraries.
The Giants who formed this world
into its sensual existence and now
seem to live in it in chains are in
truth the causes of its life and the
sources of all activity, but the chains
are the cunning of weak and tame
minds, which have power to resist
energy, according to the proverb,
'The weak in courage is strong in
cunning.'
Thus one portion of being is the
28
HEAVEN AND HELL
Prolific, the other the Devouring. To
the devourer it seems as if the pro-
ducer was in his chains; but it is not
so, he only takes portions of existence,
and fancies that the whole.
But the Prolific would cease to be
prolific unless the Devourer as a sea
received the excess of his delights.
Some will say, 'Is not God alone
the Prolific?' I answer: 'God only
acts and is in existing beings or
men.'
These two classes of men are always
upon earth, and they should be ene-
mies: whoever tries to reconcile them
seeks to destroy existence.
Religion is an endeavour to recon-
cile the two.
Note. — Jesus Christ did not wish
to unite but to separate them, as in
the parable of sheep and goats; and
29
THE MARRIAGE OF
He says : ' I came not to send peace,
but a sword.'
Messiah, or Satan, or Tempter, was
formerly thought to be one of the
antediluvians who are our Energies.
30
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
An Angel came to me and said: '0
pitiable foolish young man! hor-
rible, dreadful state! Consider the
hot burning dungeon thou art prepar-
ing for thyself to all Eternity, to which
thou art going in such career.'
I said : ' Perhaps you will be willing
to show me my eternal lot, and we
will contemplate together upon it, and
see whether your lot or mine is most
desirable.'*
So he took me through a stable, and
through a church, and down into the
church vault, at the end of v/hich was
a mill; through the mill we went, and
came to a cave; down the winding
cavern we groped our tedious way,
till a void boundless as a nether sky
appeared beneath us, and we held by
31
THE MARRIAGE OF
the roots of trees, and hung over this
immensity; but I said: 'If you please,
we will commit ourselves to this void,
and see whether Providence is here
also; if you will not, I will.' But he
answered : ' Do not presume, young
man; but as we here remain, behold
thy lot, which will soon appear when
the darkness passes away.'
So I remained with him sitting in
the twisted root of an oak; he was
suspended in a fungus, which hung
with the head downward into the
deep.
By degrees we beheld the infinite
abyss, fiery as the smoke of a burning
city; beneath us at an immense dis-
tance was the sun, black but shining;
round it were fiery tracks on which
revolved vast spiders, crawling after
their prey, which flew, or rather
swum, in the infinite deep, in the most
32
HEAVEN AND HELL
terrific shapes of animals sprung from
corruption; and the air was full of
them, and seemed composed of them.
These are Devils, and are called powers
of the air. I now asked my com-
panion which was my eternal lot.
He said: 'Between the black and
white spiders.''
But now, from between the black
and white spiders, a cloud and fire
burst and rolled through the deep,
blackening all beneath so that the
nether deep grew black as a sea, and
rolled with a terrible noise. Beneath
us was nothing now to be seen but a
black tempest, till looking East be-
tween the clouds and the waves, we
saw a cataract of blood mixed with
fire, and not many stones' throw from
us appeared and sunk again the scaly
fold of a monstrous serpent. At last
to the East, distant about three degrees,
appeared a fiery crest above the waves ;
33
THE MARRIAGE OF
slowly it reared like a ridge of golden
rocks, till we discovered two globes
of crimson fire, from which the sea
fled away in clouds of smoke; and
now we saw it was the head of Le-
viathan. His forehead was divided
into streaks of green and purple, like
those on a tiger's forehead; soon we
saw his mouth and red gills hang just
above the raging foam, tinging the
black deeps with beams of blood, ad-
vancing toward us with all the fury
of a spiritual existence.
My friend the Angel climbed up
from his station into the mill. I
remained alone, and then this ap-
pearance was no more; but I found
myself sitting on a pleasant bank beside
a river by moonlight, hearing a harper
who sung to the harp; and his theme
was: 'The man who never alters his
opinion is like standing water, and
breeds reptiles of the mind.'
34
HEAVEN AND HELL
But I arose, and sought for the
mill, and there I found my Angel,
who, surprised, asked me how I
escaped.
I answered: 'All that we saw was
owing to your metaphysics; for when
you ran away, I found myself on a
bank by moonlight, hearing a harper.
But now we have seen my eternal
lot, shall I show you yours?' He
laughed at my proposal; but I by
force suddenly caught him in my
arms, and flew Westerly through the
night, till we were elevated above the
earth's shadow; then I flung myself
with him directly into the body of the
sun; here I clothed myself in white,
and taking in my hand Swedenborg*s
volumes, sunk from the glorious clime,
and passed all the planets till we came
to Saturn. Here I stayed to rest, and
then leaped into the void between
Saturn and the fixed stars.
35
THE MARRIAGE OF
'Here,' said I, 'is your lot; in this
space, if space it may be called.'
Soon we saw the stable and the church,
and I took him to the altar and opened
the Bible, and lo! it was a deep pit,
into which I descended, driving the
Angel before me. Soon we saw seven
houses of brick. One we entered. In
it were a number of monkeys, baboons,
and all of that species, chained by the
middle, grinning and snatching at one
another, but withheld by the shortness
of their chains. However, I saw that
they sometimes grew numerous, and
then the weak were caught by the
strong, and with a grinning aspect,
first coupled with and then devoured
by plucking off first one Umb and then
another till the body was left a help-
less trunk; this, after grinning and
kissing it with seeming fondness, they
devoured too. And here and there I
saw one savourily picking the fiesh off
36
HEAVEN AND HELL
his own tail. As the stench terribly
annoyed us both, we went into the
mill; and I in my hand brought the
skeleton of a body, which in the mill
was Aristotle's Analytics.
So the Angel said; 'Thy phantasy
has imposed upon me, and thou ought-
est to be ashamed.'
I answered: 'We impose on one
another, and it is but lost time to con-
verse with you whose works are only
Analytics.'*
'I have always found that Angels
have the vanity to speak of them-
selves as the only wise; this they do
with a confident insolence sprouting
from systematic reasoning.
'Thus Swedenborg boasts that what
he writes is new ; though it is only the
contents or index of already published
books.
37
THE MARRIAGE OF
'A man carried a monkey about
for a show, and because he was a Uttle
wiser than the monkey, grew vain,
and conceived himself as much wiser
than seven men. It is so with
Swedenborg; he shows the folly of
churches, and exposes hypocrites, till
he imagines that all are religious, and
himself the single one on earth that
ever broke a net.
'Now hear a plain fact: Sweden-
borg has not written one new truth.
Now hear another: he has written all
the old falsehoods.
'And now hear the reason: he con-
versed with Angels who are all re-
ligious, and conversed not with Devils
who all hate reUgion, for he was
incapable through his conceited no-
tions.
'Thus Swedenborg's writings are
a recapitulation of all superficial
38
HEAVEN AND HELL
opinions, and an analysis of the more
sublime, but no further.
'Have now another plain fact: any
man of mechanical talents may from
the writings of Paracelsus or Jacob
Behmen produce ten thousand volumes
of equal value with Swedenborg's, and
from those of Dante or Shakespeare an
infinite number.
'But when he has done this, let
him not say that he knows better than
his master, for he only holds a candle
in sunshine.'
39
THE MARRIAGE OF
A MEMORABLE FANCY
Once I saw a Devil in a flame of
fire, who arose before an Angel that
sat on a cloud, and the Devil uttered
these words: 'The worship of God is,
honouring His gifts in other men each
according to his genius, and loving
the greatest men best. Those who
envy or calumniate great men hate
God, for there is no other God.'
The Angel hearing this became
almost blue, but mastering himself he
grew yellow, and at last white-pink
and smiling, and then replied: 'Thou
idolater, is not God One? and is not
He visible in Jesus Christ? and has
not Jesus Christ given His sanction to
the law of ten commandments? and
are not all other men fools, sinners,
and nothings?'
40
HEAVEN AND HELL
The Devil answered: 'Bray a fool
in a mortar with wheat, yet shall not
his folly be beaten out of him. If
Jesus Christ is the greatest man, you
ought to love Him in the greatest
degree. Now hear how He has given
His sanction to the law of ten com-
mandments. Did He not mock at the
Sabbath, and so mock the Sabbath's
God? murder those who were mur-
dered because of Him? turn away the
law from the woman taken in adultery,
steal the labour of others to support
Him? bear false witness when He
omitted making a defence before
Pilate? covet when He prayed for His
disciples, and when He bid them
shake off the dust of their feet against
such as refused to lodge them? I tell
you, no virtue can exist without break-
ing these ten commandments. Jesus
was all virtue, and acted from im-
pulse, not from rules.'
41
THE MARRIAGE OF
When he had so spoken, I beheld
the Angel, who stretched out his arms
embracing the flame of fire, and he
was consumed, and arose as Elijah.
Note. — This Angel, who is now
become a Devil, is my particular
friend; we often read the Bible to-
gether in its infernal or diabolical
sense, which the world shall have if
they behave well.
I have also the Bible of Hell, which
the world shall have whether they
will or no.
One law for the lion and ox is Op-
pression.
42
HEAVEN AND HELL
A SONG OF LIBERTY
1. The Eternal Female groan'd; it
was heard over all the earth:
2. Albion's coast is sick silent; the
American meadows faint.
3. Shadows of prophecy shiver
along by the lakes and the rivers, and
mutter across the ocean. France,
rend down thy dungeon!
4. Golden Spain, burst the barriers
of old Rome !
5. Cast thy keys, Rome, into
the deep — down falling, even to
eternity down falling;
6. And weep!
7. In her trembling hands she took
the new-born terror, howling.
8. On those infinite mountains
of light now barr'd out by the Atlantic
43
THE MARRIAGE OF
sea, the new-born fire stood before the
starry king.
9. Flagg'd with grey-browM snows
and thunderous visages, the jealous
wings wavM over the deep.
10. The speary hand burn'd aloft;
unbuckled was the shield; forth went
the hand of jealousy among the flam-
ing hair, and hurl'd the new-born
wonder through the starry night.
11. The fire, the fire is falling !
12. Look up! look up! citizen
of London, enlarge thy countenance!
O Jew, leave counting gold; return to
thy oil and wine! African, black
African! (Go, winged thought, widen
his forehead.)
13. The fiery limbs, the flaming hair
shot like the sinking sun into the
Western sea.
14. WakM from his eternal sleep,
the hoary element roaring fled away.
44
HEAVEN AND HELL
15. Down rush'd, beating his wings
in vain, the jealous king, his grey-
brow'd councillors, thunderous war-
riors, curl'd veterans, among helms
and shields, and chariots, horses, ele-
phants, banners, castles, slings, and
rocks.
16. Falling, rushing, ruining;
buried in the ruins, on Urthona's
dens.
17. All night beneath the ruins;
then their sullen flames, faded, emerge
round the gloomy king.
18. With thunder and fire, leading
his starry hosts through the waste
wilderness, he promulgates his ten
commandments, glancing his beamy
eyelids over the deep in dark dismay.
19. Where the Son of Fire in his
Eastern cloud, while the Morning
plumes her golden breast,
20. Spuming the clouds written
45
THE MARRIAGE OF
with curses, stamps the stony law to
dust, loosing the eternal horses from
the dens of night, crying: 'Empire is
no more! and now the lion and wolf
shall cease.'
46
HEAVEN AND HELL
CHORUS
Let the Priests of the Raven of
Dawn, no longer in deadly black, with
hoarse note curse the Sons of Joy.
Nor his accepted brethren whom,
tyrant, he calls free, lay the bound or
build the roof. Nor pale religious
lechery call that virginity that wishes,
but acts not !
For everything that lives is holy.
47
How can true knowledge fade and disappear?
Where does it go?  Only the other day
My fingers touched the stars;  and yet today
Known formulations blur, to re-appear
As dusty platitudes at which I peer
Uncomprehendingly.  It slipped away -
My recognition of the gods at play,
The shaft of light that showed me why I'm here.
But has it really gone, or does it lie
Below the surface of the clouded mind -
A reservoir of truth whose rich supply
Can never be depleted by mankind.
Light will not fail, but we who occupy
The other end of heaven can be blind.
Deep within the realms of Heaven,
Dwells the one and only King,
Father, Jesus, Lord, Creator,
Ruler over everything.
Healer of the wounded spirit,
Mender of the hurting soul,
Comforter to all who suffer,
Making all these 'beings' whole.
Call Him when you need a listener,
He's someone who'll hear your cry,
Pray to Him for guidance always,
He will constantly reply.
Be at one with God your Saviour,
Hand in hand your whole life through,
And with all his Grace and Favour,
He will always welcome you.
There is an angel in heaven,
He's awake until eleven;
You can hold to his hand
And he'll try to understand,
Why your heart is angry and bitter,
- And he'll try to make it fitter
So the future for you will glitter.
There are roads to walk across
And you are your only boss,
But your angel will guide you through
Because he knows what to do;
So don't let your hope become lost
Or frostbitten in your frost.
Be saved by an angel, who tries,
He knows both your lowness and highs;
Find refuge in love and kindness,
- Hope you try this and God bless.
We were just little children
When our neighbour
That funny and clever mister
Who loved drinking beer
Died of too much drink.
I remember
How we loved him,
And the songs he sung
When he got drunk.
They were so strange
And outlandish
We loved them as well.
Mother replied then
That he went to heaven
Where there is more beer
To answer our question “why he left here? ”
Now,
I know she said that for our sake
And knowing that any answer we’d take
For I know in heaven there is no beer.
Is there?
Open thy gates
To him who weeping waits,
And might come in,
But that held back by sin.
Let mercy be
So kind, to set me free,
And I will straight
Come in, or force the gate.
489
We pray—to Heaven—
We prate—of Heaven—
Relate—when Neighbors die—
At what o'clock to heaven—they fled—
Who saw them—Wherefore fly?
Is Heaven a Place—a Sky—a Tree?
Location's narrow way is for Ourselves—
Unto the Dead
There's no Geography—
But State—Endowal—Focus—
Where&m dash;Omnipresence—fly?
When the shy star goes forth in heaven
All maidenly, disconsolate,
Hear you amid the drowsy even
One who is singing by your gate.
His song is softer than the dew
And he is come to visit you.
O bend no more in revery
When he at eventide is calling.
Nor muse: Who may this singer be
Whose song about my heart is falling?
Know you by this, the lover's chant,
'Tis I that am your visitant.
When we go, do we all have to play harps? If we do,
I'm assuming we'll instantly know how to play them,
right? It's not like we'll have to take lessons or anything,
right? (cause you know what drudgery that can be - all
those scales. Ugh!)
Reason I'm asking is that, well, do you think I might
ask (politely)  if I could forego the harp and instead have
a Hammond B3 organ along with the instant ability to
play it? That would be so cool, especially through
Leslie speakers! In real life, the B3 is soooo heavy, but
I figure in heaven I won't have to worry about that,
either because everything will be very light or because
there will be roadies to move things for me. Am I being
presumptuous? I mean, maybe everyone in heaven will
be too lazy to want to move equipment around.
So I was thinking - tell me if this is too farfetched -
maybe we could get some people from hell to do it, you
know, like on a weekend pass from their boiling
cauldrons. Just the ones that deserve a break, you know.
Not murderers or anything, maybe just a couple of
shoplifters or something. They'd probably think hauling
around musical equipment would be like a paid
vacation after being impaled on pitchforks or bull-
whipped or whatever. I don't know, just a thought.
What do you think?
A warm sunny day of youth
Memories of white linen sheets
Hanging on the line to dry
The air filled with fragrance oh so sweet
The edge of each sheet decorated
with grandma and mothers loving hands
Crafted embroidery of brilliant flowers
Even a few monograms
After they dried in the summer sun
Mother takes them in to iron there
A sprinkle of water and starch
Then pressed with loving care
My job was to help make the beds
Mother snaps the sheets out
I help make the corners match
Tuck the corners in so they won't fall out
When all is done a long wait for evening
I couldn't wait to crawl in
Between those crisp cool sheets
Of white linen heaven
248
Why—do they shut Me out of Heaven?
Did I sing—too loud?
But—I can say a little 'Minor'
Timid as a Bird!
Wouldn't the Angels try me—
Just—once—more—
Just—see—if I troubled them—
But don't—shut the door!
Oh, if I—were the Gentleman
In the 'White Robe'—
And they—were the little Hand—that knocked—
Could—I—forbid?
I watch them from the corner of my eye.
(because I don't want them to think I'm weird)
I wonder how I could get what they have.
I wonder what happened
that made my own mom turn away.
Do they know I watch them?
Can they see the lump in my throat?
Did I blink my tears away quick enough?
Do they know?
I hope not.
I know it's a sin to envy.
I just can't stop myself.
I want to....I know how it seems.
It's embarrassing.
It's crazy to want somebody to love you
if they don't.
But, I still want a mom.
One that would come over and visit
and ask how the kids are doing.
One that offers me a hug
when she hears how I'm hurting.
One that loves me.
Will there be a breeze in heaven?
And if there is, will skinless souls still
Feel the zephyr’s gentle touch?
Will raindrops gather into pools
Where goldfish dart and the goldfinch
Comes to wet its wings?
Will angels sing Beethoven’s Ninth
While trumpets greet the dawn
of new and everlasting life?
Will all the fruits of Eden hang on trees
In easy reach?   Will tongueless souls
Appreciate the plum, the peach?
Will sunlight cast its glorious beam
On heaven’s hills?  And will its counterpart,
soft shadow, be allowed?
Will thunder rumble up from earth
To interrupt eternal peace,
Eternal calm, complacency?
Will we remember what we left behind
If heaven proves a stranger, and
Life’s small joys are life’s alone?
(August 2005)
I know sometimes that clouds bring rain,
in wintertime it's snow,
and spring is good because it makes
the pretty flowers grow.
I know that God is everywhere
and angels all have wings,
that dogs can't talk and bunnies hop
I know so many things.
But why do daddies go away?
It makes kids and mommies sad.
Are there windows up in Heaven?
Did I do something bad?
My Mommy said it's not like that...
that children all are good.
Sometimes daddies just can't stay
even though we wish they could.
She said Daddy loves me most of all,
not to think he doesn't care
... and he sees me from the windows.
God just needs him more up there.
Sometimes she is a child within mine arms,
Cowering beneath dark wings that love must chase,--
With still tears showering and averted face,
Inexplicably fill'd with faint alarms:
And oft from mine own spirit's hurtling harms
I crave the refuge of her deep embrace,--
Against all ills the fortified strong place
And sweet reserve of sovereign counter-charms.
And Love, our light at night and shade at noon,
Lulls us to rest with songs, and turns away
All shafts of shelterless tumultuous day.
Like the moon's growth, his face gleams through his tune;
And as soft waters warble to the moon,
Our answering spirits chime one roundelay.
A hero thinks of others before they think of themselves
A hero will die to protect
A hero can be of any age, any colour
A hero can be man, woman or child
A hero is courageous, loving and brave
A hero will never complain
A hero can be made in one act of compassion
Or years of tender loving care
Some hero's are remembered, whilst many are left forgotten
Hero's are angels in disguise, saving precious innocent lives
I dedicate this poem
To Pvt Steven Freund, Officer Kevin Tonn and all fallen heroes.
Most boys have their sporting heroes and mine played Gaelic Football
The mighty Mick O Connell the greatest I recall
But Mick O played for Kerry and Cork my favourite team
And to play football good as him was many school boy's dream
The finest Gaelic Footballer that I have ever seen
Not rough or hard in any way but classical and clean
And though that was many years ago and far so far away
Of great player from Valentia the memory with me stay.
When Mick O's playing days were over he faded from the scene
But memories of his playing feats will remain evergreen
His high fielding and kicking and his passing of the ball
The complete Gaelic Footballer the greatest of them all.
He never hogged the limelight he seemed so quiet and shy
But he was sporting hero to many school going boy
And even many who did not support Kerry will still tell you today
That Valentia's Mick O Connell was the best they had seen play.
My hero played for Kerry and Cork my favourite team
And to be good a player as him an early teenage dream
But as a Gaelic Footballer I never made the grade
And I won't be remembered for any game I played.
Don't let me go.
Give me some strength.
Make me a hero,
because i am strong.
I am strong!
You give me strength.
Make me your hero.
I want to believe,
there is something in me.
Give me the strength,
so i can finally see.
There is something,
something strong in me.
Don't let me go.
Be my hero.
I will grow,
with strength enough,
to save you.
Make me a hero,
because i believe-
the hero in you,
will make a hero of me.
You are what i need.
The strength in myself.
I will save you; don't let go.
A hero in the ordinary world,
Washes dishes in the sink
Adventure softly whispers
'The world dies without thee'
The dishes clatter
Chipping and cracking.
Paralyzed the hero stands.
This voice, all too familiar,
Echo's his deep yearning.
'Save the world, and be a change.
You watch the world like TV.
Not liking the show,
But too lazy to reach for the remote.'
Shaken, he falls to his knees
No confidence to fuel him.
Who is he to touch lives,
And improve the world?
Adventure screams,
'Rise to thy feet ye vagabond,
flourish your glory,
before i pass thee by again.'
When dusk dissolves the last shreds of light,
Do heroes lay awake at night?
Or do they dream, brilliant days to come-
With a winning smile, good deeds all done?
Perhaps defeat creeps with them to bed,
As a rusty nail in the back of their head.
Maybe all they wish at night,
Is for dawn to kill their dreamless fright.
Mayhap they do not wish at all,
As full moons unwind and fate befalls.
For surely all taste Fate's stale breath-
No might of man may outlast Death.
All men, no doubt, serve God's demand,
And are wrung like wet socks into Life's thirsty hands.
This morning, as I cut into
the tough flesh of the huge tomato
with its brown, half-healed scar
like an old sabre wound from some great battle,
the thought came, if you can call
a vegetable, heroic, and why not,
then this old bruiser is a hero…
its red proud chest so stalwart set,
saying, I saw the season through..
come rain, come shine, come wind
and foul weather - what’s going on these days? –
I saw it all – and more than that –
I grew it – my way… and if they said,
as mortals do –
as if they knew a tom that’s true –
you’re not for us – I’ll say to you –
I saw two thousand seven through -
I lived it – my way…
A Hero is someone looked up to,
Who others could love to be,
A Hero is someone, who is very courageous,
And willing to put their life aside for another’s happiness or well being,
A Hero is anybody, anybody who can make someone’s day,
Or to help out with a simple chore,
A Hero does not have to be successful,
Or to complete their great intention,
A Hero does not have to be able to fly,
Nor to have any other superhuman power,
A Hero can be of any sex, race, or species,
They do not have to be human,
A Hero is not somebody, who is good at everything,
They don’t even have to be good at very well anything,
A Hero is somebody, who could only listen,
They could make you smile with out any words,
A Hero is someone, who could stand up for you,
Or to agree in your beliefs,
A Hero could be your Teacher,
helping you learn towards your future,
A Hero is anybody, and everybody,
Everyone is someone’s Hero,
And everybody has a Hero.
02/28/2008
He was so foolish, the poor lad,
He made superior people smile
Who knew not of the wings he had
Budding and growing all the while;
Nor that the laurel wreath was made
Already for his curly head.
Silly and childish in his ways;
They said: 'His future comes to naught.'
His future! In the dreadful days
When in a toil his feet were caught
He hacked his way to glory bright
Before his day went down in night.
He fretted wiser folk--small blame!
Such futile, feeble brains were his.
Now we doff hats to hear his name,
Ask pardon where his spirit is,
Because we never guessed him for
A hero in the disguise he wore.
It matters little how we live
So long as we may greatly die.
Fashioned for great things, O forgive
Our dullness in the days gone by!
Now glory wraps you like a cloak
From us, and all such common folk.
Three times I had the lust to kill,
To clutch a throat so young and fair,
And squeeze with all my might until
No breath of being lingered there.
Three times I drove the demon out,
Though on my brow was evil sweat. . . .
And yet I know beyond a doubt
He'll get me yet, he'll get me yet.
I know I'm mad, I ought to tell
The doctors, let them care for me,
Confine me in a padded cell
And never, never set me free;
But Oh how cruel that would be!
For I am young - and comely too . . .
Yet dim my demon I can see,
And there is but one thing to do.
Three times I beat the foul fiend back;
The fourth, I know he will prevail,
And so I'll seek the railway track
And lay my head upon the rail,
And sight the dark and distant train,
And hear its thunder louder roll,
Coming to crush my cursed brain . . .
Oh God, have mercy on my soul!
Tantrum unleashes more furry upon thy battlefield
Heart gleaners the fight
Broken pieces unknown to man
Gibberish is unheard
Truth is in each one of us
Truth thus lays the poet in every hero
In the big fire at Mancini's their house and it's contents were destroyed
And the story of their bad luck it has travelled far and wide
But the story it would have been worse if human lives were lost
Though the financial damage to the family it comes at a great cost.
Clothes left to dry by an electric heater was how the fire began
And as from her burning premises Mrs Mancini ran
She shouted my baby is in there and young Bill who lives nearby
Rushed into the smoke filled bedroom to where he heard the baby cry.
He snatched the baby from her cot and with her rushed outside
And handed her to her weeping mother who in tears was overjoyed
And though the hero an unlikely one he surely saved the day
And about him Mr and Mrs Mancini only have good things to say.
Billy in his early twenties on himself he makes life hard
From his local pub for fighting for six months he has been barred
But the villian has become a hero since he risked his life to save
The life of a six months baby girl when most needed he was brave.
The one seen as a villian an unlikely hero of today
And where the faint hearted dare not venture great courage he did display
Last week he was seen as a rowdy people on him now heap praise
And the story of his bravery those who know him do amaze.
JAMES BRAIDWOOD: Died June 22, 1861.
NOT at the battle front,--writ of in story;
Not on the blazing wreck steering to glory;
Not while in martyr-pangs soul and flesh sever,
Died he--this Hero new; hero forever.
No pomp poetic crowned, no forms enchained him,
No friends applauding watched, no foes arraigned him:
Death found him there, without grandeur or beauty,
Only an honest man doing his duty:
Just a God-fearing man, simple and lowly,
Constant at kirk and hearth, kindly as holy:
Death found--and touched him with finger in flying:--
Lo! he rose up complete--hero undying.
Now, all men mourn for him, lovingly raise him
Up from his life obscure, chronicle, praise him;
Tell his last act, done midst peril appalling,
And the last word of cheer from his lips falling;
Follow in multitudes to his grave's portal;
Leave him there, buried in honor immortal.
So many a Hero walks unseen beside us,
Till comes the supreme stroke sent to divide us.
Then the LORD calls His own,--like this man, even,
Carried, Elijah-like, fire-winged, to heaven.
He was only 17 when it started
So big, but cute, and brave
We all wonder why it happened
As we sit here, digging his grave
Matthew was a soldier
Fighting for the U.S.A
He loved his country so dearly
That he gave his life away
It was 1941
And we were fighting for our rights
Against the German soldiers
That kept us up all night
There leader was named Hitler
He was a cruel and an evil man
He discriminated other races
But the Jews were his number one plan
Matt decided to join the army
So this plan would not commence
And the world once more will be peaceful
For everybody’s expense
Matt was quite good in the warzone
Dodging the bullets that flew
Over and around his body
But he knew just what to do
Matt saw a man ahead of him
And snuck up to give him a smack
But realized it was just a boy
Who was caught up in the attack
Matt gave his life to save him
Protecting the boy in the field
Taking the bullets one by one
As if he were a shield
So now we sit and cry for Matt
As he was anything but a zero
Saving a child’s life with his own
Now that makes him “A True Hero”
Fighting for this great land
In a far off place
To fight for the freedom of all
In a war in a country not your own
So many wars
So many lost
Yet we love you all
Even the ones that are gone
Our brave heroes fought
to make us our own country
They fought each other
when slavery was an issue
They even fought
for Texas and The Alamo
World War I
Had to go put things
to rest in Germany
World War II
The need to fight back
May all the souls in Pearl Harbor
Rest In Eternal Peace
Fixed our problems with Japan
and righted things in Germany
Vietnam our saddest war
Why did so many have to die
Vietcong hiding everywhere
making it hard to survive
Now there is a wall
for our fallen brethren there
Fallen and survivors
Several disrespected at first
Now honor given to all
from our saddest war
Korea oh Korea
We tried to keep you united
We did our best
Now we can see you slowly mingle again
Persian Gulf
The first time to fight Iraq
We managed to save what we could
We put the fires out in Kuwait
Now we are in Operation Freedom
and the hunt for Osama binladen and his men
We have lost so many
Yet we keep helping them
The heroes of today
taking after the heroes of yesterday
So this is my tribute
To honor all the heroes
that are and have been in uniform
Thank you
To the true heroes
The United States Military
(Dedicated to the US Airforce, Navy, Marines, Army Vets and current soldiers.  We all love and appreciate you.)
If you judge him do not judge him harshly or why judge him at all
Since the darkest of memories are his to recall
Many of his comrades around him under gunfire did fall
Their names to be seen on War Memorial wall.
Back in the late sixties in distant Vietnam
He fought in an unpopular war as a young man
He received an honourable discharge from the army and a medal for bravery
And he now is an ageing man in poverty.
He never fathered children or never had a wife
And alcohol has become his sole comfort in life
Haunted by his dark war memories life for him an Earthly Hell
Had he not been in Vietnam at all in life he may have done well.
His war medal for bravery he has misplaced or lost
The two years he spent in Vietnam to him has come at a great cost
He looks far older than his sixty three years thin and stooped and gray
War leaves it's mark on it's survivors it does seem that way.
Are you ok if tomarrow is the end? Would you be a hero for someone in need? Would you care, or stand and watch? If you knew you could make a difference, would you? If you were one vioce, and this was the last chance to be heard, would you take advantage of the moment and scream out your the word? Would you help someone who you dispised? Would you help someone when you have enough on your plate as it is? Would you help a homeless person find a home, and give them food? If you were with your friends and they were making fun of a person who would be considered a geek or nerd, which side would you be on? would you sacrafice your time to help another, no matter how late it is or who it is?   The world would be a better place it we just helped each other...I know that sounds impossible, but in reality...nothing is impossible if we just put our minds to it and stop being selfish. If we took the time to help someone, then they would probably take the time to help someone else and so on. But it takes more than one person to make a diffrence. It takes all of us. If we did this earlier we might not have had so many wars, therefore so many deaths. If we took the time to do something that really matters the world would be a safer and nicer place to live. I might only be sixteen but that doesn't mean I don't know anything. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that we have to care in order to make the world a better place.  here are some facts that will maybe encourage you to send this poem to others so that we can make a difference and save some lives......1.)  In a recent national survey of students in grades 6 to 10,13% reported bullying others,11% reported being the target of school bullies, and another 6% said they bullied others and were bullied themselves.    2.)  Teen bullying can lead teenagers tense, anxious, and afraid. Some teens feel compelled to take drastic measures, such as carrying weapons to school for protection or violent revenge. Others in desperation even consider suicide.     3.) By 2002,28% of the woman who had reported depression symptoms in 1995 said they'd experienced dating violence or injury from a partner, compared with only 18% of woman who didn't report depression.   4.)  1,439 teens will attempt sucicide in the next 24 hours.6 of them will end in death.   5.) Remember that any ongoing conflicts between a parent and child can fuel the fire for a teen who is feeling isolated, misunderstood, devalued, or suicidal. Get help to air family problems and resolve them in a construcive way.   6.) at last count, there were more than 24,500 different gangs around the country, and more than 772,500 teens and young adults were members of gangs. Some gang members are as young as 12, the average age is about 17 to 18 years old.   7.) Teens join gangs for a variety of reasons. Some are seeking excitment; others are looking for prestige, protection, a chance to make money, or a sense of belonging.---If we make a chioce to be the voice for those who won't speak up for themselves, how many lives would we save? If it was ur kid who got shot because of a disgruntal teen was being picked on and decided to bring a gun to shcool. so please spread the mesage to care and be a hero.
would you do me a favour
and take me in your arms
take me some where out of sight
take me oh so far
away from all these people
full of hope and faith
set me down beside this lake
and sit with me a while
untill my depression fades away
untill im me again
and then
tell me that you love me
tell me that you care
for knowing you
is loving you
and without you im in dispear
so wont you be my hero
and rescue me here and now
for my other hero lost his wings
and fell upon his crown
he left me all alone
longing for some one to take me home
Regimental Sergeant Major James Corrigan MC,
A regular Soldier in World War One,
Was Mortally wounded whilst saving another.
He got an appointment to see the King,
And the Millitary Cross for his Bravery.
My Grandpa died of his wounds.
This upright Man who I never knew,
Was my Hero as I grew up.
I heard the tales, handed down,
Of deeds of daring do
And saw his imposing figure,
In pictures all faded and torn.
I've read of the Somme and Passchendaele too
And its hard to think of him there.
Its beyond imagination to know,
The carnage and hardship he saw.
A Family man with four young Children,
And the Grandpa I never knew.
Our two hearts beat as one, forever glowing under the sun.
So rise once more, but shed no tears.
I wasn't afraid to give my life for someone so brave.
Do what you can, and never give in.
It will take but one second for my gift to end.
Live in the present, not in your past.
The future is approaching far to fast.
Never be afraid to do the right thing, even if it means dieing in pain. The world needs more heros to stand for our cause, freedom and happiness aren't a mirrage, their real and so is the price we pay. Losing more friends with each passing day.
Someday freedom may be free, but as of today its up to you and me to pay the price with our lives.
So stand tall in the face of terror, even just one soldier can make a difference, because no soldier is alone, our hearts beat together.
So don't be afraid my friend, I'm right there with you on the front lines, so don't be afriad I'm not far behind....
Alas! now o'er the civilised world there hangs a gloom
For brave General Gordon, that was killed in Khartoum,
He was a Christian hero, and a soldier of the Cross,
And to England his death will be a very great loss.
He was very cool in temper, generous and brave,
The friend of the poor, the sick, and the slave;
And many a poor boy he did educate,
And laboured hard to do so early and late.
He was a man that did not care for worldly gear,
Because the living and true God he did fear;
And the hearts of the poor he liked to cheer,
And by his companions in arms he was loved most dear.
He always took the Bible for his guide,
And he liked little boys to walk by his side;
He preferred their company more so than men,
Because he knew there was less guile in them.
And in his conversation he was modest and plain,
Denouncing all pleasures he considered sinful and vain,
And in battle he carried no weapon but a small cane,
Whilst the bullets fell around him like a shower of rain.
He burnt the debtors' books that were imprisoned in Khartoum,
And freed them from a dismal prison gloom,
Those that were imprisoned for debt they couldn't pay,
And sent them rejoicing on their way.
While engaged in the Russian war, in the midst of the fight,
He stood upon a rising ground and viewed them left and right,
But for their shot and shell he didn't care a jot,
While the officers cried, Gordon, come down, or else you'll be shot.
His cane was christened by the soldiers Gordon's wand of victory
And when he waved it the soldiers' hearts were filled with glee
While with voice and gesture he encouraged them in the strife,
And he himself appeared to possess a charmed life.
Once when leading a storming party the soldiers drew back,
But he quickly observed that courage they did lack,
Then he calmly lighted a cigar, and turned cheerfully found,
And the soldiers rushed boldly on with a bound.
And they carried the position without delay,
And the Chinese rebels soon gave way,
Because God was with him during the day,
And with those that trust Him for ever and aye.
He was always willing to conduct meetings for the poor,
Also meat and clothing for them he tried to procure,
And he always had little humorous speeches at command,
And to hear him deliver them it must have been grand.
In military life his equal couldn't he found,
No! if you were to search the wide world around,
And 'tis pitiful to think he has met with such a doom
By a base traitor knave while in Khartoum.
Yes, the black-hearted traitor opened the gates of Khartoum,
And through that the Christian hero has met his doom,
For when the gates were opened the Arabs rushed madly in,
And foully murdered him while they laughingly did grin.
But he defended himself nobly with axe and sword in hand,
But, alas! he was soon overpowered by that savage band,
And his body received a hundred spear wounds and more,
While his murderers exultingly did loudly shriek and roar.
But heaven's will,'tis said, must be done,
And according to his own opinion his time was come;
But I hope he is now in heaven reaping his reward.
Although his fate on earth was really very hard.
I hope the people will his memory revere,
And take an example from him, and worship God in fear,
And never be too fond of worldly gear,
And walk in General Gordon's footsteps, while they are here.
Brave Grant, thou hero of the war,
Thou art the emblem of the morning star,
Transpiring from the East to banish fear,
Revolving o'er a servile Hemisphere,
At large thou hast sustained the chief command
And at whose order all must rise and stand,
To hold position in the field is thine,
To sink in darkness or to rise and shine.
Thou art the leader of the Fed'ral band,
To send them at thy pleasure through the land,
Whose martial soldiers never did recoil
Nor fail in any place to take the spoil,
Thus organized was all the army firm,
And led unwavering to their lawful term,
Never repulsed or made to shrink with fear,
Advancing in their cause so truly dear.
The love of Union burned in every heart,
Which led them true and faithful from the start,
Whether upon water or on land,
They all obeyed their marshall's strict command,
By him the regiments were all surveyed,
His trumpet voice was by the whole obeyed,
His order right was every line to form,
And all be well prepared to front the storm.
Ye Southern gentlemen must grant him praise,
Nor on the flag of Union fail to gaze;
Ye ladies of the South forego the prize,
Our chief commander here to recognize,
From him the stream of general orders flow,
And every chief on him some praise bestow,
The well-known victor of the mighty cause
Demands from every voice a loud applause.
What more has great Napoleon ever done,
Though many battles in his course he won?
What more has Alexander e'er achieved,
Who left depopulated cities grieved?
To him we dedicate the whole in song,
The verses from our pen to him belong,
To him the Union banners are unfurled,
The star of peace the standard of the world.
''Healfast, healfast, ye hero wounds;
O knight, be quickly strong!
Beloved strife
For fame and life,
Oh, tarry not too long!''
He died a hero
In a war of vague purpose
We really don't know
What it was for, I suppose.
An axis of evil?
A war on Terror-
But assessments reveal
Man's greed and error.
Was it about oil?
Who was the aggressor-
Did we make him recoil
Or were we the oppressor?
So where' s the victory
Where indeed is the end?
Death's the only reality
For the soldiers you send.
Familes now broken
Young and old lives lost,
Fathers and sons taken
Oh, at such a great cost!
'He died a hero'
Tell that to their children,
The pain of loss you don't know
As you plan a new war again.
....................... ................................................. ...........................
July 15,2009
Makati, Metro  Manila
Philippines
He is more than a hero
he is a god in my eyes--
the man who is allowed
to sit beside you -- he
who listens intimately
to the sweet murmur of
your voice, the enticing
laughter that makes my own
heart beat fast. If I meet
you suddenly, I can'
speak -- my tongue is broken;
a thin flame runs under
my skin; seeing nothing,
hearing only my own ears
drumming, I drip with sweat;
trembling shakes my body
and I turn paler than
dry grass. At such times
death isn't far from me
She sits upon her sofa, just sits & stares they say,
She, s waiting for the day to come
When he walks by her way.
But she will sit forever waiting
Cause he wont be home tonight,
She must have known that fateful day
When he was shot on sight.
you see he was an officer
An officer of the law,
He didnt have a chance at all
Not even time to draw.
The weapon that should have protected him
Stayed clipped upon his belt,
No way of ever knowing that day
how the cards of fate would be dealt.
His partner went down with him
another casualty to the list,
Thier uniforms could not protect them
No badge or iron fist.
But she remembers his smiling face
As he left on that fateful morn,
Goodbye my love as he kissed her cheek
Then walked proudly out the door,
No way of ever knowing
She would hear those words no more.
The days are slow & nights are long
As she pines for the man she loves,
He, s foating on a cloud in the sky
Looking down on her from above...
It lies not in our power to love or hate,
For will in us is over-rul'd by fate.
hen two are stript long ere the course begin,
We wish that one should lose, the other win;
And one especially do we affect
Of two gold ingots, like in each respect:
The reason no man knows; let it suffice,
What we behold is censur'd by our eyes.
Where both deliberate, the love is slight:
Who ever lov'd, that lov'd not at first sight.
See you the towers, that, gray and old,
Frown through the sunlight's liquid gold,
Steep sternly fronting steep?
The Hellespont beneath them swells,
And roaring cleaves the Dardanelles,
The rock-gates of the deep!
Hear you the sea, whose stormy wave,
From Asia, Europe clove in thunder?
That sea which rent a world, cannot
Rend love from love asunder!
In Hero's, in Leander's heart,
Thrills the sweet anguish of the dart
Whose feather flies from love.
All Hebe's bloom in Hero's cheek--
And his the hunter's steps that seek
Delight, the hills above!
Between their sires the rival feud
Forbids their plighted hearts to meet;
Love's fruits hang over danger's gulf,
By danger made more sweet.
Alone on Sestos' rocky tower,
Where upward sent in stormy shower,
The whirling waters foam,--
Alone the maiden sits, and eyes
The cliffs of fair Abydos rise
Afar--her lover's home.
Oh, safely thrown from strand to strand,
No bridge can love to love convey;
No boatman shoots from yonder shore,
Yet Love has found the way.--
That love, which could the labyrinth pierce--
Which nerves the weak, and curbs the fierce,
And wings with wit the dull;--
That love which o'er the furrowed land
Bowed--tame beneath young Jason's hand--
The fiery-snorting bull!
Yes, Styx itself, that ninefold flows,
Has love, the fearless, ventured o'er,
And back to daylight borne the bride,
From Pluto's dreary shore!
What marvel then that wind and wave,
Leander doth but burn to brave,
When love, that goads him, guides!
Still when the day, with fainter glimmer,
Wanes pale--he leaps, the daring swimmer,
Amid the darkening tides;
With lusty arms he cleaves the waves,
And strikes for that dear strand afar;
Where high from Hero's lonely tower
Lone streams the beacon-star.
In vain his blood the wave may chill,
These tender arms can warm it still--
And, weary if the way,
By many a sweet embrace, above
All earthly boons--can liberal love
The lover's toil repay,
Until Aurora breaks the dream,
And warns the loiterer to depart--
Back to the ocean's icy bed,
Scared from that loving heart.
So thirty suns have sped their flight--
Still in that theft of sweet delight
Exult the happy pair;
Caress will never pall caress,
And joys that gods might envy, bless
The single bride-night there.
Ah! never he has rapture known,
Who has not, where the waves are driven
Upon the fearful shores of hell,
Plucked fruits that taste of heaven!
Now changing in their season are,
The morning and the Hesper star;--
Nor see those happy eyes
The leaves that withering droop and fall,
Nor hear, when, from its northern hall,
The neighboring winter sighs;
Or, if they see, the shortening days
But seem to them to close in kindness;
For longer joys, in lengthening nights,
They thank the heaven in blindness.
It is the time, when night and day,
In equal scales contend for sway--
Lone, on her rocky steep,
Lingers the girl with wistful eyes
That watch the sun-steeds down the skies,
Careering towards the deep.
Lulled lay the smooth and silent sea,
A mirror in translucent calm,
The breeze, along that crystal realm,
Unmurmuring, died in balm.
In wanton swarms and blithe array,
The merry dolphins glide and play
Amid the silver waves.
In gray and dusky troops are seen,
The hosts that serve the ocean-queen,
Upborne from coral caves:
They--only they--have witnessed love
To rapture steal its secret way:
And Hecate [36] seals the only lips
That could the tale betray!
She marks in joy the lulled water,
And Sestos, thus thy tender daughter,
Soft-flattering, woos the sea!
"Fair god--and canst thou then betray?
No! falsehood dwells with them that say
That falsehood dwells with thee!
Ah! faithless is the race of man,
And harsh a father's heart can prove;
But thee, the gentle and the mild,
The grief of love can move!"
"Within these hated walls of stone,
Should I, repining, mourn alone,
And fade in ceaseless care,
But thou, though o'er thy giant tide,
Nor bridge may span, nor boat may glide,
Dost safe my lover bear.
And darksome is thy solemn deep,
And fearful is thy roaring wave;
But wave and deep are won by love--
Thou smilest on the brave!"
"Nor vainly, sovereign of the sea,
Did Eros send his shafts to thee
What time the rain of gold,
Bright Helle, with her brother bore,
How stirred the waves she wandered o'er,
How stirred thy deeps of old!
Swift, by the maiden's charms subdued,
Thou cam'st from out the gloomy waves,
And in thy mighty arms, she sank
Into thy bridal caves."
"A goddess with a god, to keep
In endless youth, beneath the deep,
Her solemn ocean-court!
And still she smooths thine angry tides,
Tames thy wild heart, and favoring guides
The sailor to the port!
Beautiful Helle, bright one, hear
Thy lone adoring suppliant pray!
And guide, O goddess--guide my love
Along the wonted way!"
Now twilight dims the waters' flow,
And from the tower, the beacon's glow
Waves flickering o'er the main.
Ah, where athwart the dismal stream,
Shall shine the beacon's faithful beam
The lover's eyes shall strain!
Hark! sounds moan threatening from afar--
From heaven the blessed stars are gone--
More darkly swells the rising sea
The tempest labors on!
Along the ocean's boundless plains
Lies night--in torrents rush the rains
From the dark-bosomed cloud--
Red lightning skirs the panting air,
And, loosed from out their rocky lair,
Sweep all the storms abroad.
Huge wave on huge wave tumbling o'er,
The yawning gulf is rent asunder,
And shows, as through an opening pall,
Grim earth--the ocean under!
Poor maiden! bootless wail or vow--
"Have mercy, Jove--be gracious, thou!
Dread prayer was mine before!"
What if the gods have heard--and he,
Lone victim of the stormy sea,
Now struggles to the shore!
There's not a sea-bird on the wave--
Their hurrying wings the shelter seek;
The stoutest ship the storms have proved,
Takes refuge in the creek.
"Ah, still that heart, which oft has braved
The danger where the daring saved,
Love lureth o'er the sea;--
For many a vow at parting morn,
That naught but death should bar return,
Breathed those dear lips to me;
And whirled around, the while I weep,
Amid the storm that rides the wave,
The giant gulf is grasping down
The rash one to the grave!
"False Pontus! and the calm I hailed,
The awaiting murder darkly veiled--
The lulled pellucid flow,
The smiles in which thou wert arrayed,
Were but the snares that love betrayed
To thy false realm below!
Now in the midway of the main,
Return relentlessly forbidden,
Thou loosenest on the path beyond
The horrors thou hadst hidden."
Loud and more loud the tempest raves
In thunder break the mountain waves,
White-foaming on the rock--
No ship that ever swept the deep
Its ribs of gnarled oak could keep
Unshattered by the shock.
Dies in the blast the guiding torch
To light the struggler to the strand;
'Tis death to battle with the wave,
And death no less to land!
On Venus, daughter of the seas,
She calls the tempest to appease--
To each wild-shrieking wind
Along the ocean-desert borne,
She vows a steer with golden horn--
Vain vow--relentless wind!
On every goddess of the deep,
On all the gods in heaven that be,
She calls--to soothe in calm, awhile
The tempest-laden sea!
"Hearken the anguish of my cries!
From thy green halls, arise--arise,
Leucothoe the divine!
Who, in the barren main afar,
Oft on the storm-beat mariner
Dost gently-saving shine.
Oh,--reach to him thy mystic veil,
To which the drowning clasp may cling,
And safely from that roaring grave,
To shore my lover bring!"
And now the savage winds are hushing.
And o'er the arched horizon, blushing,
Day's chariot gleams on high!
Back to their wonted channels rolled,
In crystal calm the waves behold
One smile on sea and sky!
All softly breaks the rippling tide,
Low-murmuring on the rocky land,
And playful wavelets gently float
A corpse upon the strand!
'Tis he!--who even in death would still
Not fail the sweet vow to fulfil;
She looks--sees--knows him there!
From her pale lips no sorrow speaks,
No tears glide down her hueless cheeks;
Cold-numbed in her despair--
She looked along the silent deep,
She looked upon the brightening heaven,
Till to the marble face the soul
Its light sublime had given!
"Ye solemn powers men shrink to name,
Your might is here, your rights ye claim--
Yet think not I repine
Soon closed my course; yet I can bless
The life that brought me happiness--
The fairest lot was mine!
Living have I thy temple served,
Thy consecrated priestess been--
My last glad offering now receive
Venus, thou mightiest queen!"
Flashed the white robe along the air,
And from the tower that beetled there
She sprang into the wave;
Roused from his throne beneath the waste,
Those holy forms the god embraced--
A god himself their grave!
Pleased with his prey, he glides along--
More blithe the murmured music seems,
A gush from unexhausted urns
His everlasting streams!
Both robb'd of air, we both lie in one ground ;
Both whom one fire had burnt, one water drown'd
**   HERO AND LEANDER
The Dardanelles is a narrow strait which links, -
The strait of Bosporus with the Aegean Sea;
And also separates the European from the Asian
side of Turkey!
In the ancient days this strait was better known
as Hellespont,
With its narrowest stretch between Sestos and
Abydos!
Hero, the beautiful virgin priestess of Aphrodite*, -
Lived in Sestos on the European side!
Leander a fiery youth from Abydos, lived on
the opposite side of Sestos!
Leander saw Hero at a religious festival at Sestos,
And it was love at first sight we are assured!
Leander wooed Hero with many soft words of
entreaty;
How could Aphrodite the Goddess of Love and
Beauty, -
Accept a virgin’s worship in the logic of all
things?
For it never did fit in to the scheme of things!
Hero finally consented and returned Leander’s
love!
Every night she lit a lamp on Sesto’s tower above!
To guide Leander as he swam the Hellespont -
And to come safely to her waiting shores!
One day a violent storm broke out at sea, -
Making Leander to drift far out at sea!
The strong winds had extinguished Hero’s
tower light,
What fate ordains can hardly be denied!
Hero jumped from the tower overcome with
grief,
And at the bottom of the Hellespont they both
peacefully sleep!
-Raj Nandy
18 Apr 09
New Delhi
(Composed this poem-based on an old Greek myth I
came across  reading Byzantine History! *Greek Aphrodite -
is the Roman Venus, – the goddess of love.)
Now was bright Hero weary of the day,
Thought an Olympiad in Leander's stay.
Sol and the soft-foot Hours hung on his arms,
And would not let him swim, foreseeing his harms:
That day Aurora double grace obtain'd
Of her love Phoebus; she his horses reign'd,
Set on his golden knee, and, as she list,
She pull'd him back; and as she pull'd she kiss'd,
To have him turn to bed: he lov'd her more,
To see the love Leander Hero bore:
Examples profit much; ten times in one,
In persons full of note, good deeds are done.
Day was so long, men walking fell asleep;
The heavy humours that their eyes did steep
Made them fear mischiefs. The hard streets were beds
For covetous churls and for ambitious heads,
That, spite of Nature, would their business ply:
All thought they had the falling epilepsy,
Men grovell'd so upon the smother'd ground;
And pity did the heart of Heaven confound.
The Gods, the Graces, and the Muses came
Down to the Destinies, to stay the frame
Of the true lovers' deaths, and all world's tears:
But Death before had stopp'd their cruel ears.
All the celestials parted mourning then,
Pierc'd with our human miseries more than men:
Ah, nothing doth the world with mischief fill,
But want of feeling one another's ill!
With their descent the day grew something fair,
And cast a brighter robe upon the air.
Hero, to shorten time with merriment,
For young Alcmane and bright Mya sent,
Two lovers that had long crav'd marriage-dues
At Hero's hands: but she did still refuse;
For lovely Mya was her consort vow'd
In her maid state, and therefore not allow'd
To amorous nuptials: yet fair Hero now
Intended to dispense with her cold vow,
Since hers was broken, and to marry her:
The rites would pleasing matter minister
To her conceits, and shorten tedious day.
They came; sweet Music usher'd th' odorous way,
And wanton Air in twenty sweet forms danced
After her fingers; Beauty and Love advanced
Their ensigns in the downless rosy faces
Of youths and maids led after by the Graces.
For all these Hero made a friendly feast,
Welcom'd them kindly, did much love protest,
Winning their hearts with all the means she might.
That, when her fault should chance t' abide the light
Their loves might cover or extenuate it,
And high in her worst fate make pity sit.
She married them; and in the banquet came,
Borne by the virgins. Hero striv'd to frame
Her thoughts to mirth: ay me! but hard it is
To imitate a false and forced bliss;
Ill may a sad mind forge a merry face,
Nor hath constrained laughter any grace.
Then laid she wine on cares to make them sink:
Who fears the threats of Fortune, let him drink.
To these quick nuptials enter'd suddenly
Admired Teras with the ebon thigh;
A nymph that haunted the green Sestian groves,
And would consort soft virgins in their loves,
At gaysome triumphs and on solemn days,
Singing prophetic elegies and lays,
And fingering of a silver lute she tied
With black and purple scarfs by her left side.
Apollo gave it, and her skill withal,
And she was term'd his dwarf, she was so small:
Yet great in virtue, for his beams enclosed
His virtues in her; never was proposed
Riddle to her, or augury, strange or new,
But she resolv'd it; never slight tale flew
From her charm'd lips without important sense,
Shown in some grave succeeding consequence.
This little sylvan, with her songs and tales,
Gave such estate to feasts and nuptials,
That though ofttimes she forewent tragedies,
Yet for her strangeness still she pleas'd their eyes;
And for her smallness they admir'd her so,
They thought her perfect born, and could not grow.
All eyes were on her. Hero did command
An altar decked with sacred state should stand
At the feast's upper end, close by the bride,
On which the pretty nymph might sit espied.
Then all were silent; every one so hears,
As all their senses climb'd into their ears:
And first this amorous tale, that fitted well
Fair Hero and the nuptials, she did tell.
_The Tale of Teras._
Hymen, that now is god of nuptial rites,
And crowns with honour Love and his delights,
Of Athens was a youth, so sweet of face,
That many thought him of the female race;
Such quickening brightness did his clear eyes dart,
Warm went their beams to his beholder's heart,
In such pure leagues his beauties were combin'd,
That there your nuptial contracts first were signed;
For as proportion, white and crimson, meet
In beauty's mixture, all right clear and sweet,
The eye responsible, the golden hair,
And none is held, without the other, fair;
All spring together, all together fade;
Such intermix'd affections should invade
Two perfect lovers; which being yet unseen,
Their virtues and their comforts copied been
In beauty's concord, subject to the eye;
And that, in Hymen, pleased so matchlessly,
That lovers were esteemed in their full grace,
Like form and colour mixed in Hymen's face;
And such sweet concord was thought worthy then
Of torches, music, feasts, and greatest men:
So Hymen look'd that even the chastest mind
He mov'd to join in joys of sacred kind;
For only now his chin's first down consorted
His head's rich fleece in golden curls contorted;
And as he was so loved, he loved so too:
So should best beauties bound by nuptials, do.
Bright Eucharis, who was by all men said
The noblest, fairest, and the richest maid
Of all th' Athenian damsels, Hymen lov'd
With such transmission, that his heart remov'd
From his white breast to hers: but her estate,
In passing his, was so interminate
For wealth and honour, that his love durst feed
On naught but sight and hearing, nor could breed
Hope of requital, the grand prize of love;
Nor could he hear or see, but he must prove
How his rare beauty's music would agree
With maids in consort; therefore robbed he
His chin of those same few first fruits it bore,
And, clad in such attire as virgins wore,
He kept them company, and might right well,
For he did all but Eucharis excel
In all the fair of beauty! yet he wanted
Virtue to make his own desires implanted
In his dear Eucharis; for women never
Love beauty in their sex, but envy ever.
His judgment yet, that durst not suit address,
Nor, past due means, presume of due success,
Reason gat Fortune in the end to speed
To his best prayers: but strange it seemed, indeed,
That Fortune should a chaste affection bless:
Preferment seldom graceth bashfulness.
Nor grac'd it Hymen yet; but many a dart,
And many an amorous thought, enthralled his heart,
Ere he obtained her; and he sick became,
Forced to abstain her sight; and then the flame
Raged in his bosom. O, what grief did fill him!
Sight made him sick, and want of sight did kill him.
The virgins wonder'd where Diaetia stay'd,
For so did Hymen term himself, a maid.
At length with sickly looks he greeted them:
Tis strange to see 'gainst what an extreme stream
A lover strives; poor Hymen look'd so ill,
That as in merit he increased still
By suffering much, so he in grace decreas'd:
Women are most won, when men merit least:
If Merit look not well, Love bids stand by;
Love's special lesson is to please the eye.
And Hymen soon recovering all he lost,
Deceiving still these maids, but himself most,
His love and he with many virgin dames,
Noble by birth, noble by beauty's flames,
Leaving the town with songs and hallow'd lights
To do great Ceres Eleusina rites
Of zealous sacrifice, were made a prey
To barbarous rovers, that in ambush lay,
And with rude hands enforc'd their shining spoil,
Far from the darkened city, tired with toil:
And when the yellow issue of the sky
Came trooping forth, jealous of cruelty
To their bright fellows of this under-heaven,
Into a double night they saw them driven,--
A horrid cave, the thieves' black mansion;
Where, weary of the journey they had gone,
Their last night's watch, and drunk with their sweet gains,
Dull Morpheus enter'd, laden with silken chains,
Stronger than iron, and bound the swelling veins
And tired senses of these lawless swains.
But when the virgin lights thus dimly burn'd,
O, what a hell was heaven in! how they mourn'd
And wrung their hands, and wound their gentle forms
Into the shapes of sorrow! golden storms
Fell from their eyes; as when the sun appears,
And yet it rains, so show'd their eyes their tears:
And, as when funeral dames watch a dead corse,
Weeping about it, telling with remorse
What pains he felt, how long in pain he lay,
How little food he ate, what he would say;
And then mix mournful tales of other's deaths,
Smothering themselves in clouds of their own breaths;
At length, one cheering other, call for wine;
The golden bowl drinks tears out of their eyne,
As they drink wine from it; and round it goes,
Each helping other to relieve their woes;
So cast these virgins' beauties mutual rays,
One lights another, face the face displays;
Lips by reflection kissed, and hands hands shook,
Even by the whiteness each of other took.
But Hymen now used friendly Morpheus' aid,
Slew every thief, and rescued every maid:
And now did his enamour'd passion take
Heart from his hearty deed, whose worth did make
His hope of bounteous Eucharis more strong;
And now came Love with Proteus, who had long
Juggled the little god with prayers and gifts,
Ran through all shapes and varied all his shifts,
To win Love's stay with him, and make him love him.
And when he saw no strength of sleight could move him,
To make him love or stay, he nimbly turned
Into Love's self, he so extremely burned.
And thus came Love, with Proteus and his power,
T' encounter Eucharis: first, like the flower
That Juno's milk did spring, the silver lily,
He fell on Hymen's hand, who straight did spy
The bounteous godhead, and with wondrous joy
Offer'd it Eucharis. She, wonderous coy,
Drew back her hand: the subtle flower did woo it,
And, drawing it near, mixed so you could not know it:
As two clear tapers mix in one their light,
So did the lily and the hand their white.
She viewed it; and her view the form bestows
Amongst her spirits; for, as colour flows
From superficies of each thing we see,
Even so with colours forms emitted be;
And where Love's form is, Love is; Love is form:
He entered at the eye; his sacred storm
Rose from the hand, Love's sweetest instrument:
It stirred her blood's sea so, that high it went,
And beat in bashful waves 'gainst the white shore
Of her divided cheeks; it raged the more,
Because the tide went 'gainst the haughty wind
Of her estate and birth: and, as we find,
In fainting ebbs, the flowery Zephyr hurls
The green-haired Hellespont, broke in silver curls,
'Gainst Hero's tower; but in his blast's retreat,
The waves obeying him, they after beat,
Leaving the chalky shore a great way pale,
Then moist it freshly with another gale;
So ebbed and flowed the blood in Eucharis' face,
Coyness and Love strived which had greatest grace;
Virginity did fight on Coyness' side,
Fear of her parent's frowns and female pride
Loathing the lower place, more than it loves
The high contents desert and virtue moves.
With Love fought Hymen's beauty and his valure,
Which scarce could so much favour yet allure
To come to strike, but fameless idle stood:
Action is fiery valour's sovereign good.
But Love, once entered, wished no greater aid
Than he could find within; thought thought betray'd;
The bribed, but incorrupted, garrison
Sung 'Io Hymen;' there those songs begun,
And Love was grown so rich with such a gain,
And wanton with the ease of his free reign,
That he would turn into her roughest frowns
To turn them out; and thus he Hymen crowns
King of his thoughts, man's greatest empery:
This was his first brave step to deity.
Home to the mourning city they repair,
With news as wholesome as the morning air,
To the sad parents of each saved maid:
But Hymen and his Eucharis had laid
This plat to make the flame of their delight
Round as the moon at full, and full as bright.
Because the parents of chaste Eucharis
Exceeding Hymen's so, might cross their bliss;
And as the world rewards deserts, that law
Cannot assist with force; so when they saw
Their daughter safe, take vantage of their own,
Praise Hymen's valour much, nothing bestown;
Hymen must leave the virgins in a grove
Far off from Athens, and go first to prove,
If to restore them all with fame and life,
He should enjoy his dearest as his wife.
This told to all the maids, the most agree:
The riper sort, knowing what 'tis to be
The first mouth of a news so far derived,
And that to hear and bear news brave folks lived.
As being a carriage special hard to bear
Occurrents, these occurrents being so dear,
They did with grace protest, they were content
T' accost their friends with all their compliment,
For Hymen's good; but to incur their harm,
There he must pardon them. This wit went warm
To Adolesche's brain, a nymph born high,
Made all of voice and fire, that upwards fly:
Her heart and all her forces' nether train
Climb'd to her tongue, and thither fell her brain,
Since it could go no higher; and it must go;
All powers she had, even her tongue, did so:
In spirit and quickness she much joy did take,
And loved her tongue, only for quickness' sake;
And she would haste and tell. The rest all stay:
Hymen goes one, the nymph another way;
And what became of her I'll tell at last:
Yet take her visage now;--moist-lipped, long-faced,
Thin like an iron wedge, so sharp and tart,
As 'twere of purpose made to cleave Love's heart:
Well were this lovely beauty rid of her.
And Hymen did at Athens now prefer
His welcome suit, which he with joy aspired:
A hundred princely youths with him retired
To fetch the nymphs; chariots and music went;
And home they came: heaven with applauses rent.
The nuptials straight proceed, whiles all the town,
Fresh in their joys, might do them most renown.
First, gold-locked Hymen did to church repair,
Like a quick offering burned in flames of hair;
And after, with a virgin firmament
The godhead-proving bride attended went
Before them all: she looked in her command,
As if form-giving Cypria's silver hand
Gripped all their beauties, and crushed out one flame;
She blushed to see how beauty overcame
The thoughts of all men. Next, before her went
Five lovely children, decked with ornament
Of her sweet colours, bearing torches by;
For light was held a happy augury
Of generation, whose efficient right
Is nothing else but to produce to light.
The odd disparent number they did choose,
To show the union married loves should use,
Since in two equal parts it will not sever,
But the midst holds one to rejoin it ever,
As common to both parts: men therefore deem
That equal number gods do not esteem,
Being authors of sweet peace and unity,
But pleasing to th' infernal empery,
Under whose ensigns Wars and Discords fight,
Since an even number you may disunite
In two parts equal, naught in middle left
To reunite each part from other reft;
And five they hold in most especial prize,
Since 'tis the first odd number that doth rise
From the two foremost numbers' unity,
That odd and even are; which are two and three;
For one no number is; but thence doth flow
The powerful race of number. Next, did go
A noble matron, that did spinning bear
A huswife's rock and spindle, and did wear
A wether's skin, with all the snowy fleece,
To intimate that even the daintiest piece
And noblest-born dame should industrious be:
That which does good disgraceth no degree.
And now to Juno's temple they are come,
Where her grave priest stood in the marriage-room:
On his right arm did hang a scarlet veil,
And from his shoulders to the ground did trail,
On either side, ribands of white and blue:
With the red veil he hid the bashful hue
Of the chaste bride, to show the modest shame,
In coupling with a man, should grace a dame.
Then took he the disparent silks, and tied
The lovers by the waists, and side to side,
In token that thereafter they must bind
In one self-sacred knot each other's mind.
Before them on an altar he presented
Both fire and water, which was first invented,
Since to ingenerate every human creature
And every other birth produc'd by Nature,
Moisture and heat must mix; so man and wife
For human race must join in nuptial life.
Then one of Juno's birds, the painted jay,
He sacrific'd and took the gall away;
All which he did behind the altar throw,
In sign no bitterness of hate should grow,
'Twixt married loves, nor any least disdain.
Nothing they spake, for 'twas esteem'd too plain
For the most silken mildness of a maid,
To let a public audience hear it said,
She boldly took the man; and so respected
Was bashfulness in Athens, it erected
To chaste Agneia, which is Shamefacedness,
A sacred temple, holding her a goddess.
And now to feasts, masks, and triumphant shows,
The shining troops returned, even till earth-throes
Brought forth with joy the thickest part of night,
When the sweet nuptial song, that used to cite
All to their rest, was by Phemonoee sung,
First Delphian prophetess, whose graces sprung
Out of the Muses' well: she sung before
The bride into her chamber; at which door
A matron and a torch-bearer did stand:
A painted box of confits in her hand
The matron held, and so did other some
That compassed round the honour'd nuptial room.
The custom was, that every maid did wear,
During her maidenhead, a silken sphere
About her waist, above her inmost weed,
Knit with Minerva's knot, and that was freed
By the fair bridegroom on the marriage-night,
With many ceremonies of delight:
And yet eternized Hymen's tender bride,
To suffer it dissolved so, sweetly cried.
The maids that heard, so loved and did adore her,
They wished with all their hearts to suffer for her.
So had the matrons, that with confits stood
About the chamber, such affectionate blood,
And so true feeling of her harmless pains,
That every one a shower of confits rains;
For which the bride-youths scrambling on the ground,
In noise of that sweet hail her cries were drown'd.
And thus blest Hymen joyed his gracious bride,
And for his joy was after deified.
The saffron mirror by which Phoebus' love,
Green Tellus, decks her, now he held above
The cloudy mountains: and the noble maid,
Sharp-visaged Adolesche, that was stray'd
Out of her way, in hasting with her news,
Not till this hour th' Athenian turrets views;
And now brought home by guides, she heard by all,
That her long kept occurrents would be stale,
And how fair Hymen's honours did excel
For those rare news which she came short to tell.
To hear her dear tongue robbed of such a joy,
Made the well-spoken nymph take such a toy,
That down she sunk: when lightning from above
Shrunk her lean body, and, for mere free love,
Turn'd her into the pied-plum'd Psittacus,
That now the Parrot is surnam'd by us,
Who still with counterfeit confusion prates
Naught but news common to the common'st mates.--
This told, strange Teras touch'd her lute, and sung
This ditty, that the torchy evening sprung.
_Epithalamion Teratos._
Come, come, dear Night! Love's mart of kisses,
Sweet close to his ambitious line,
The fruitful summer of his blisses!
Love's glory doth in darkness shine.
O come, soft rest of cares! come, Night!
Come, naked Virtue's only tire,
The reaped harvest of the light,
Bound up in sheaves of sacred fire!
Love calls to war;
Sighs his alarms,
Lips his swords are,
The field his arms.
Come, Night, and lay thy velvet hand
On glorious Day's outfacing face;
And all thy crowned flames command,
For torches to our nuptial grace!
Love calls to war;
Sighs his alarms,
Lips his swords are,
The field his arms.
No need have we of factious Day,
To cast, in envy of thy peace,
Her balls of discord in thy way:
Here Beauty's day doth never cease;
Day is abstracted here,
And varied in a triple sphere.
Hero, Alcmane, Mya, so outshine thee,
Ere thou come here, let Thetis thrice refine thee.
Love calls to war;
Sighs his alarms,
Lips his swords are,
The field his arms.
The evening star I see:
Rise, youths! the evening star
Helps Love to summon war;
Both now embracing be.
Rise, youths! Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!
Now the bright marigolds, that deck the skies,
Phoebus' celestial flowers, that, contrary
To his flowers here, ope when he shuts his eye,
And shuts when he doth open, crown your sports:
Now Love in Night, and Night in Love exhorts
Courtship and dances: all your parts employ,
And suit Night's rich expansure with your joy.
Love paints his longings in sweet virgins' eyes:
Rise, youths! Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!
Rise, virgins! let fair nuptial loves enfold
Your fruitless breasts: the maidenheads ye hold
Are not your own alone, but parted are;
Part in disposing them your parents share,
And that a third part is; so must ye save
Your loves a third, and you your thirds must have.
Love paints his longings in sweet virgins' eyes:
Rise, youths! Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!
Herewith the amorous spirit, that was so kind
To Teras' hair, and comb'd it down with wind,
Still as it, comet-like, brake from her brain,
Would needs have Teras gone, and did refrain
To blow it down: which, staring up, dismay'd
The timorous feast; and she no longer stay'd;
But, bowing to the bridegroom and the bride,
Did, like a shooting exhalation, glide
Out of their sights: the turning of her back
Made them all shriek, it look'd so ghastly black.
O hapless Hero! that most hapless cloud
Thy soon-succeeding tragedy foreshow'd.
Thus all the nuptial crew to joys depart;
But much-wronged Hero stood Hell's blackest dart:
Whose wound because I grieve so to display,
I use digressions thus t' increase the day.
On Hellespont, guilty of true-love's blood,
In view and opposite two cities stood,
Sea-borderers, disjoined by Neptune's might;
The one Abydos, the other Sestos hight.
At Sestos Hero dwelt; Hero the fair,
Whom young Apollo courted for her hair,
And offered as a dower his burning throne,
Where she should sit for men to gaze upon.
The outside of her garments were of lawn,
The lining purple silk, with gilt stars drawn;
Her wide sleeves green, and bordered with a grove,
Where Venus in her naked glory strove
To please the careless and disdainful eyes
Of proud Adonis, that before her lies.
Her kirtle blue, whereon was many a stain,
Made with the blood of wretched lovers slain.
Upon her head she ware a myrtle wreath,
From whence her veil reached to the ground beneath.
Her veil was artificial flowers and leaves
Whose workmanship both man and beast deceives.
Many would praise the sweet smell as she passed,
When 'twas the odour which her breath forth cast;
And there for honey bees have sought in vain,
And, beat from thence, have lighted there again.
About her neck hung chains of pebblestone,
Which, lightened by her neck, like diamonds shone.
She ware no gloves; for neither sun nor wind
Would burn or parch her hands, but to her mind,
Or warm or cool them, for they took delight
To play upon those hands, they were so white.
Buskins of shells, all silvered used she,
And branched with blushing coral to the knee;
Where sparrows perched of hollow pearl and gold,
Such as the world would wonder to behold.
Those with sweet water oft her handmaid fills,
Which, as she went, would chirrup through the bills.
Some say for her the fairest Cupid pined
And looking in her face was strooken blind.
But this is true: so like was one the other,
As he imagined Hero was his mother.
And oftentimes into her bosom flew,
About her naked neck his bare arms threw,
And laid his childish head upon her breast,
And, with still panting rocked, there took his rest.
So lovely fair was Hero, Venus' nun,
As Nature wept, thinking she was undone,
Because she took more from her than she left,
And of such wondrous beauty her bereft.
Therefore, in sign her treasure suffered wrack,
Since Hero's time hath half the world been black.
Amorous Leander, beautiful and young,
(whose tragedy divine Musaeus sung,)
Dwelt at Abydos; since him dwelt there none
For whom succeeding times make greater moan.
His dangling tresses, that were never shorn,
Had they been cut, and unto Colchos borne,
Would have allured the vent'rous youth of Greece
To hazard more than for the golden fleece.
Fair Cynthia wished his arms might be her sphere;
Grief makes her pale, because she moves not there.
His body was as straight as Circe's wand;
Jove might have sipped out nectar from his hand.
Even as delicious meat is to the taste,
So was his neck in touching, and surpassed
The white of Pelop's shoulder. I could tell ye
How smooth his breast was and how white his belly;
And whose immortal fingers did imprint
That heavenly path with many a curious dint
That runs along his back, but my rude pen
Can hardly blazon forth the loves of men,
Much less of powerful gods. Let it suffice
That my slack Muse sings of Leander's eyes,
Those orient cheeks and lips, exceeding his
That leaped into the water for a kiss
Of his own shadow and, despising many,
Died ere he could enjoy the love of any.
Had wild Hippolytus Leander seen
Enamoured of his beauty had he been.
His presence made the rudest peasant melt
That in the vast uplandish country dwelt.
The barbarous Thracian soldier, moved with nought,
Was moved with him and for his favour sought.
Some swore he was a maid in man's attire,
For in his looks were all that men desire,
A pleasant smiling cheek, a speaking eye,
A brow for love to banquet royally;
And such as knew he was a man, would say,
'Leander, thou art made for amorous play.
Why art thou not in love, and loved of all?
Though thou be fair, yet be not thine own thrall.'
The men of wealthy Sestos every year,
(For his sake whom their goddess held so dear,
Rose-cheeked Adonis)  kept a solemn feast.
Thither resorted many a wandering guest
To meet their loves.
Such as had none at all,
Came lovers home from this great festival.
For every street like to a firmament
Glistered with breathing stars who, where they went,
Frighted the melancholy earth which deemed
Eternal heaven to burn, for so it seemed,
As if another Phaeton had got
The guidance of the sun's rich chariot.
But far above the loveliest Hero shined
And stole away th' enchanted gazer's mind,
For like sea nymphs' enveigling Harmony,
So was her beauty to the standers by.
Nor that night-wandering, pale, and wat'ry star
(When yawning dragons draw her thirling car
From Latmus' mount up to the gloomy sky
Where, crowned with blazing light and majesty,
She proudly sits)  more overrules the flood
Than she the hearts of those that near her stood.
Even as, when gaudy nymphs pursue the chase,
Wretched Ixion's shaggy footed race,
Incensed with savage heat, gallop amain
From steep pine-bearing mountains to the plain.
So ran the people forth to gaze upon her,
And all that viewed her were enamoured on her.
And as in fury of a dreadful fight,
Their fellows being slain or put to flight,
Poor soldiers stand with fear of death dead strooken,
So at her presence all surprised and tooken,
Await the sentence of her scornful eyes.
He whom she favours lives, the other dies.
There might you see one sigh, another rage;
And some, (their violent passions to assuage)
Compile sharp satires, but alas too late,
For faithful love will never turn to hate.
And many seeing great princes were denied
Pin'd as they went, and thinking on her died.
On this feast day, O cursed day and hour,
Went Hero thorough Sestos from her tower
To Venus' temple, where unhappily
As after chanced, they did each other spy.
So fair a church as this had Venus none.
The walls were of discoloured jasper stone
Wherein was Proteus carved, and o'erhead
A lively vine of green sea agate spread,
Where by one hand lightheaded Bacchus hung,
And, with the other, wine from grapes out wrung.
Of crystal shining fair the pavement was.
The town of Sestos called it Venus' glass.
There might you see the gods in sundry shapes
Committing heady riots, incest, rapes.
For know, that underneath this radiant floor
Was Danae's statue in a brazen tower,
Jove slyly stealing from his sister's bed,
To dally with Idalian Ganymede,
And for his love Europa bellowing loud,
And tumbling with the Rainbow in a cloud;
Blood quaffing Mars heaving the iron net
Which limping Vulcan and his Cyclops set;
Love kindling fire to burn such towns as Troy;
Sylvanus weeping for the lovely boy
That now is turned into a cypress tree,
Under whose shade the wood gods love to be.
And in the midst a silver altar stood.
There Hero, sacrificing turtle's blood,
Vailed to the ground, vailing her eyelids close,
And modestly they opened as she rose.
Thence flew Love's arrow with the golden head,
And thus Leander was enamoured.
Stone still he stood, and evermore he gazed
Till with the fire that from his countenance blazed
Relenting Hero's gentle heart was strook.
Such force and virtue hath an amorous look.
It lies not in our power to love or hate,
For will in us is overruled by fate.
When two are stripped, long ere the course begin
We wish that one should lose, the other win.
And one especially do we affect
Of two gold ingots like in each respect.
The reason no man knows; let it suffice
What we behold is censured by our eyes.
Where both deliberate, the love is slight:
Who ever loved, that loved not at first sight?
He kneeled, but unto her devoutly prayed.
Chaste Hero to herself thus softly said,
'Were I the saint he worships, I would hear him; '
And, as she spake those words, came somewhat near him.
He started up, she blushed as one ashamed,
Wherewith Leander much more was inflamed.
He touched her hand; in touching it she trembled.
Love deeply grounded, hardly is dissembled.
These lovers parleyed by the touch of hands;
True love is mute, and oft amazed stands.
Thus while dumb signs their yielding hearts entangled,
The air with sparks of living fire was spangled,
And night, deep drenched in misty Acheron,
Heaved up her head, and half the world upon
Breathed darkness forth (dark night is Cupid's day) .
And now begins Leander to display
Love's holy fire, with words, with sighs, and tears,
Which like sweet music entered Hero's ears,
And yet at every word she turned aside,
And always cut him off as he replied.
At last, like to a bold sharp sophister,
With cheerful hope thus he accosted her.
'Fair creature, let me speak without offence.
I would my rude words had the influence
To lead thy thoughts as thy fair looks do mine,
Then shouldst thou be his prisoner, who is thine.
Be not unkind and fair; misshapen stuff
Are of behaviour boisterous and rough.
O shun me not, but hear me ere you go.
God knows I cannot force love as you do.
My words shall be as spotless as my youth,
Full of simplicity and naked truth.
This sacrifice, (whose sweet perfume descending
From Venus' altar, to your footsteps bending)
Doth testify that you exceed her far,
To whom you offer, and whose nun you are.
Why should you worship her? Her you surpass
As much as sparkling diamonds flaring glass.
A diamond set in lead his worth retains;
A heavenly nymph, beloved of human swains,
Receives no blemish, but ofttimes more grace;
Which makes me hope, although I am but base:
Base in respect of thee, divine and pure,
Dutiful service may thy love procure.
And I in duty will excel all other,
As thou in beauty dost exceed Love's mother.
Nor heaven, nor thou, were made to gaze upon,
As heaven preserves all things, so save thou one.
A stately builded ship, well rigged and tall,
The ocean maketh more majestical.
Why vowest thou then to live in Sestos here
Who on Love's seas more glorious wouldst appear?
Like untuned golden strings all women are,
Which long time lie untouched, will harshly jar.
Vessels of brass, oft handled, brightly shine.
What difference betwixt the richest mine
And basest mould, but use? For both, not used,
Are of like worth. Then treasure is abused
When misers keep it; being put to loan,
In time it will return us two for one.
Rich robes themselves and others do adorn;
Neither themselves nor others, if not worn.
Who builds a palace and rams up the gate
Shall see it ruinous and desolate.
Ah, simple Hero, learn thyself to cherish.
Lone women like to empty houses perish.
Less sins the poor rich man that starves himself
In heaping up a mass of drossy pelf,
Than such as you. His golden earth remains
Which, after his decease, some other gains.
But this fair gem, sweet in the loss alone,
When you fleet hence, can be bequeathed to none.
Or, if it could, down from th'enameled sky
All heaven would come to claim this legacy,
And with intestine broils the world destroy,
And quite confound nature's sweet harmony.
Well therefore by the gods decreed it is
We human creatures should enjoy that bliss.
One is no number; maids are nothing then
Without the sweet society of men.
Wilt thou live single still? One shalt thou be,
Though never singling Hymen couple thee.
Wild savages, that drink of running springs,
Think water far excels all earthly things,
But they that daily taste neat wine despise it.
Virginity, albeit some highly prize it,
Compared with marriage, had you tried them both,
Differs as much as wine and water doth.
Base bullion for the stamp's sake we allow;
Even so for men's impression do we you,
By which alone, our reverend fathers say,
Women receive perfection every way.
This idol which you term virginity
Is neither essence subject to the eye
No, nor to any one exterior sense,
Nor hath it any place of residence,
Nor is't of earth or mould celestial,
Or capable of any form at all.
Of that which hath no being do not boast;
Things that are not at all are never lost.
Men foolishly do call it virtuous;
What virtue is it that is born with us?
Much less can honour be ascribed thereto;
Honour is purchased by the deeds we do.
Believe me, Hero, honour is not won
Until some honourable deed be done.
Seek you for chastity, immortal fame,
And know that some have wronged Diana's name?
Whose name is it, if she be false or not
So she be fair, but some vile tongues will blot?
But you are fair, (ay me)  so wondrous fair,
So young, so gentle, and so debonair,
As Greece will think if thus you live alone
Some one or other keeps you as his own.
Then, Hero, hate me not nor from me fly
To follow swiftly blasting infamy.
Perhaps thy sacred priesthood makes thee loath.
Tell me, to whom mad'st thou that heedless oath? '
'To Venus,' answered she and, as she spake,
Forth from those two tralucent cisterns brake
A stream of liquid pearl, which down her face
Made milk-white paths, whereon the gods might trace
To Jove's high court.
He thus replied: 'The rites
In which love's beauteous empress most delights
Are banquets, Doric music, midnight revel,
Plays, masks, and all that stern age counteth evil.
Thee as a holy idiot doth she scorn
For thou in vowing chastity hast sworn
To rob her name and honour, and thereby
Committ'st a sin far worse than perjury,
Even sacrilege against her deity,
Through regular and formal purity.
To expiate which sin, kiss and shake hands.
Such sacrifice as this Venus demands.'
Thereat she smiled and did deny him so,
As put thereby, yet might he hope for moe.
Which makes him quickly re-enforce his speech,
And her in humble manner thus beseech.
'Though neither gods nor men may thee deserve,
Yet for her sake, whom you have vowed to serve,
Abandon fruitless cold virginity,
The gentle queen of love's sole enemy.
Then shall you most resemble Venus' nun,
When Venus' sweet rites are performed and done.
Flint-breasted Pallas joys in single life,
But Pallas and your mistress are at strife.
Love, Hero, then, and be not tyrannous,
But heal the heart that thou hast wounded thus,
Nor stain thy youthful years with avarice.
Fair fools delight to be accounted nice.
The richest corn dies, if it be not reaped;
Beauty alone is lost, too warily kept.'
These arguments he used, and many more,
Wherewith she yielded, that was won before.
Hero's looks yielded but her words made war.
Women are won when they begin to jar.
Thus, having swallowed Cupid's golden hook,
The more she strived, the deeper was she strook.
Yet, evilly feigning anger, strove she still
And would be thought to grant against her will.
So having paused a while at last she said,
'Who taught thee rhetoric to deceive a maid?
Ay me, such words as these should I abhor
And yet I like them for the orator.'
With that Leander stooped to have embraced her
But from his spreading arms away she cast her,
And thus bespake him: 'Gentle youth, forbear
To touch the sacred garments which I wear.
Upon a rock and underneath a hill
Far from the town (where all is whist and still,
Save that the sea, playing on yellow sand,
Sends forth a rattling murmur to the land,
Whose sound allures the golden Morpheus
In silence of the night to visit us)
My turret stands and there, God knows, I play.
With Venus' swans and sparrows all the day.
A dwarfish beldam bears me company,
That hops about the chamber where I lie,
And spends the night (that might be better spent)
In vain discourse and apish merriment.
Come thither.' As she spake this, her tongue tripped,
For unawares 'come thither' from her slipped.
And suddenly her former colour changed,
And here and there her eyes through anger ranged.
And like a planet, moving several ways,
At one self instant she, poor soul, assays,
Loving, not to love at all, and every part
Strove to resist the motions of her heart.
And hands so pure, so innocent, nay, such
As might have made heaven stoop to have a touch,
Did she uphold to Venus, and again
Vowed spotless chastity, but all in vain.
Cupid beats down her prayers with his wings,
Her vows above the empty air he flings,
All deep enraged, his sinewy bow he bent,
And shot a shaft that burning from him went,
Wherewith she strooken, looked so dolefully,
As made love sigh to see his tyranny.
And as she wept her tears to pearl he turned,
And wound them on his arm and for her mourned.
Then towards the palace of the destinies
Laden with languishment and grief he flies,
And to those stern nymphs humbly made request
Both might enjoy each other, and be blest.
But with a ghastly dreadful countenance,
Threatening a thousand deaths at every glance,
They answered Love, nor would vouchsafe so much
As one poor word, their hate to him was such.
Hearken a while and I will tell you why.
Heaven's winged herald, Jove-borne Mercury,
The selfsame day that he asleep had laid
Enchanted Argus, spied a country maid
Whose careless hair instead of pearl t'adorn it
Glistered with dew, as one that seemed to scorn it;
Her breath as fragrant as the morning rose,
Her mind pure, and her tongue untaught to gloze.
Yet proud she was (for lofty pride that dwells
In towered courts is oft in shepherds' cells.)
And too too well the fair vermilion knew,
And silver tincture of her cheeks, that drew
The love of every swain. On her this god
Enamoured was, and with his snaky rod
Did charm her nimble feet, and made her stay,
The while upon a hillock down he lay
And sweetly on his pipe began to play,
And with smooth speech her fancy to assay,
Till in his twining arms he locked her fast
And then he wooed with kisses; and at last,
As shepherds do, her on the ground he laid
And, tumbling in the grass, he often strayed
Beyond the bounds of shame, in being bold
To eye those parts which no eye should behold.
And, like an insolent commanding lover
Boasting his parentage, would needs discover
The way to new Elysium, but she,
Whose only dower was her chastity,
Having striv'n in vain was now about to cry
And crave the help of shepherds that were nigh.
Herewith he stayed his fury, and began
To give her leave to rise. Away she ran;
After went Mercury who used such cunning
As she, to hear his tale, left off her running.
Maids are not won by brutish force and might,
But speeches full of pleasure, and delight.
And, knowing Hermes courted her, was glad
That she such loveliness and beauty had
As could provoke his liking, yet was mute
And neither would deny nor grant his suit.
Still vowed he love. She, wanting no excuse
To feed him with delays, as women use,
Or thirsting after immortality, -
All women are ambitious naturally -
Imposed upon her lover such a task
As he ought not perform nor yet she ask.
A draught of flowing nectar she requested,
Wherewith the king of gods and men is feasted.
He, ready to accomplish what she willed,
Stole some from Hebe (Hebe Jove's cup filled)
And gave it to his simple rustic love.
Which being known (as what is hid from Jove?)
He inly stormed and waxed more furious
Than for the fire filched by Prometheus,
And thrusts him down from heaven. He, wandering here,
In mournful terms, with sad and heavy cheer,
Complained to Cupid. Cupid for his sake,
To be revenged on Jove did undertake.
And those on whom heaven, earth, and hell relies,
I mean the adamantine Destinies,
He wounds with love, and forced them equally
To dote upon deceitful Mercury.
They offered him the deadly fatal knife
That shears the slender threads of human life.
At his fair feathered feet the engines laid
Which th' earth from ugly Chaos' den upweighed.
These he regarded not but did entreat
That Jove, usurper of his father's seat,
Might presently be banished into hell,
And aged Saturn in Olympus dwell.
They granted what he craved, and once again
Saturn and Ops began their golden reign.
Murder, rape, war, lust, and treachery,
Were with Jove closed in Stygian empery.
But long this blessed time continued not.
As soon as he his wished purpose got
He reckless of his promise did despise
The love of th' everlasting Destinies.
They seeing it both love and him abhorred
And Jupiter unto his place restored.
And but that Learning in despite of Fate
Will mount aloft and enter heaven gate
And to the seat of Jove itself advance,
Hermes had slept in hell with Ignorance.
Yet as a punishment they added this,
That he and Poverty should always kiss.
And to this day is every scholar poor;
Gross gold from them runs headlong to the boor.
Likewise the angry Sisters thus deluded,
To venge themselves on Hermes, have concluded
That Midas' brood shall sit in honour's chair,
To which the Muses' sons are only heir;
And fruitful wits, that in aspiring are,
Shall discontent run into regions far;
And few great lords in virtuous deeds shall joy
But be surprised with every garish toy,
And still enrich the lofty servile clown,
Who with encroaching guile keeps learning down.
Then Muse not Cupid's suit no better sped,
Seeing in their loves the Fates were injured.
By this, sad Hero, with love unacquainted,
Viewing Leander's face, fell down and fainted.
He kissed her and breathed life into her lips,
Wherewith as one displeased away she trips.
Yet, as she went, full often looked behind,
And many poor excuses did she find
To linger by the way, and once she stayed,
And would have turned again, but was afraid,
In offering parley, to be counted light.
So on she goes and in her idle flight
Her painted fan of curled plumes let fall,
Thinking to train Leander therewithal.
He, being a novice, knew not what she meant
But stayed, and after her a letter sent,
Which joyful Hero answered in such sort,
As he had hope to scale the beauteous fort
Wherein the liberal Graces locked their wealth,
And therefore to her tower he got by stealth.
Wide open stood the door, he need not climb,
And she herself before the pointed time
Had spread the board, with roses strowed the room,
And oft looked out, and mused he did not come.
At last he came.
O who can tell the greeting
These greedy lovers had at their first meeting.
He asked, she gave, and nothing was denied.
Both to each other quickly were affied.
Look how their hands, so were their hearts united,
And what he did she willingly requited.
(Sweet are the kisses, the embracements sweet,
When like desires and affections meet,
For from the earth to heaven is Cupid raised,
Where fancy is in equal balance peised.)
Yet she this rashness suddenly repented
And turned aside, and to herself lamented
As if her name and honour had been wronged
By being possessed of him for whom she longed.
Ay, and she wished, albeit not from her heart
That he would leave her turret and depart.
The mirthful god of amorous pleasure smiled
To see how he this captive nymph beguiled.
For hitherto he did but fan the fire,
And kept it down that it might mount the higher.
Now waxed she jealous lest his love abated,
Fearing her own thoughts made her to be hated.
Therefore unto him hastily she goes
And, like light Salmacis, her body throws
Upon his bosom where with yielding eyes
She offers up herself a sacrifice
To slake his anger if he were displeased.
O, what god would not therewith be appeased?
Like Aesop's cock this jewel he enjoyed
And as a brother with his sister toyed
Supposing nothing else was to be done,
Now he her favour and good will had won.
But know you not that creatures wanting sense
By nature have a mutual appetence,
And, wanting organs to advance a step,
Moved by love's force unto each other lep?
Much more in subjects having intellect
Some hidden influence breeds like effect.
Albeit Leander rude in love and raw,
Long dallying with Hero, nothing saw
That might delight him more, yet he suspected
Some amorous rites or other were neglected.
Therefore unto his body hers he clung.
She, fearing on the rushes to be flung,
Strived with redoubled strength; the more she strived
The more a gentle pleasing heat revived,
Which taught him all that elder lovers know.
And now the same gan so to scorch and glow
As in plain terms (yet cunningly)  he craved it.
Love always makes those eloquent that have it.
She, with a kind of granting, put him by it
And ever, as he thought himself most nigh it,
Like to the tree of Tantalus, she fled
And, seeming lavish, saved her maidenhead.
Ne'er king more sought to keep his diadem,
Than Hero this inestimable gem.
Above our life we love a steadfast friend,
Yet when a token of great worth we send,
We often kiss it, often look thereon,
And stay the messenger that would be gone.
No marvel then, though Hero would not yield
So soon to part from that she dearly held.
Jewels being lost are found again, this never;
'Tis lost but once, and once lost, lost forever.
Now had the morn espied her lover's steeds,
Whereat she starts, puts on her purple weeds,
And red for anger that he stayed so long
All headlong throws herself the clouds among.
And now Leander, fearing to be missed,
Embraced her suddenly, took leave, and kissed.
Long was he taking leave, and loath to go,
And kissed again as lovers use to do.
Sad Hero wrung him by the hand and wept
Saying, 'Let your vows and promises be kept.'
Then standing at the door she turned about
As loath to see Leander going out.
And now the sun that through th' horizon peeps,
As pitying these lovers, downward creeps,
So that in silence of the cloudy night,
Though it was morning, did he take his flight.
But what the secret trusty night concealed
Leander's amorous habit soon revealed.
With Cupid's myrtle was his bonnet crowned,
About his arms the purple riband wound
Wherewith she wreathed her largely spreading hair.
Nor could the youth abstain, but he must wear
The sacred ring wherewith she was endowed
When first religious chastity she vowed.
Which made his love through Sestos to be known,
And thence unto Abydos sooner blown
Than he could sail; for incorporeal fame
Whose weight consists in nothing but her name,
Is swifter than the wind, whose tardy plumes
Are reeking water and dull earthly fumes.
Home when he came, he seemed not to be there,
But, like exiled air thrust from his sphere,
Set in a foreign place; and straight from thence,
Alcides like, by mighty violence
He would have chased away the swelling main
That him from her unjustly did detain.
Like as the sun in a diameter
Fires and inflames objects removed far,
And heateth kindly, shining laterally,
So beauty sweetly quickens when 'tis nigh,
But being separated and removed,
Burns where it cherished, murders where it loved.
Therefore even as an index to a book,
So to his mind was young Leander's look.
O, none but gods have power their love to hide,
Affection by the countenance is descried.
The light of hidden fire itself discovers,
And love that is concealed betrays poor lovers,
His secret flame apparently was seen.
Leander's father knew where he had been
And for the same mildly rebuked his son,
Thinking to quench the sparkles new begun.
But love resisted once grows passionate,
And nothing more than counsel lovers hate.
For as a hot proud horse highly disdains
To have his head controlled, but breaks the reins,
Spits forth the ringled bit, and with his hooves
Checks the submissive ground; so he that loves,
The more he is restrained, the worse he fares.
What is it now, but mad Leander dares?
'O Hero, Hero! ' thus he cried full oft;
And then he got him to a rock aloft,
Where having spied her tower, long stared he on't,
And prayed the narrow toiling Hellespont
To part in twain, that he might come and go;
But still the rising billows answered, 'No.'
With that he stripped him to the ivory skin
And, crying 'Love, I come,' leaped lively in.
Whereat the sapphire visaged god grew proud,
And made his capering Triton sound aloud,
Imagining that Ganymede, displeased,
Had left the heavens; therefore on him he seized.
Leander strived; the waves about him wound,
And pulled him to the bottom, where the ground
Was strewed with pearl, and in low coral groves
Sweet singing mermaids sported with their loves
On heaps of heavy gold, and took great pleasure
To spurn in careless sort the shipwrack treasure.
For here the stately azure palace stood
Where kingly Neptune and his train abode.
The lusty god embraced him, called him 'Love,'
And swore he never should return to Jove.
But when he knew it was not Ganymede,
For under water he was almost dead,
He heaved him up and, looking on his face,
Beat down the bold waves with his triple mace,
Which mounted up, intending to have kissed him,
And fell in drops like tears because they missed him.
Leander, being up, began to swim
And, looking back, saw Neptune follow him,
Whereat aghast, the poor soul 'gan to cry
'O, let me visit Hero ere I die! '
The god put Helle's bracelet on his arm,
And swore the sea should never do him harm.
He clapped his plump cheeks, with his tresses played
And, smiling wantonly, his love bewrayed.
He watched his arms and, as they opened wide
At every stroke, betwixt them would he slide
And steal a kiss, and then run out and dance,
And, as he turned, cast many a lustful glance,
And threw him gaudy toys to please his eye,
And dive into the water, and there pry
Upon his breast, his thighs, and every limb,
And up again, and close beside him swim,
And talk of love.
Leander made reply,
'You are deceived; I am no woman, I.'
Thereat smiled Neptune, and then told a tale,
How that a shepherd, sitting in a vale,
Played with a boy so fair and kind,
As for his love both earth and heaven pined;
That of the cooling river durst not drink,
Lest water nymphs should pull him from the brink.
And when he sported in the fragrant lawns,
Goat footed satyrs and upstaring fauns
Would steal him thence. Ere half this tale was done,
'Ay me,' Leander cried, 'th' enamoured sun
That now should shine on Thetis' glassy bower,
Descends upon my radiant Hero's tower.
O, that these tardy arms of mine were wings! '
And, as he spake, upon the waves he springs.
Neptune was angry that he gave no ear,
And in his heart revenging malice bare.
He flung at him his mace but, as it went,
He called it in, for love made him repent.
The mace, returning back, his own hand hit
As meaning to be venged for darting it.
When this fresh bleeding wound Leander viewed,
His colour went and came, as if he rued
The grief which Neptune felt. In gentle breasts
Relenting thoughts, remorse, and pity rests.
And who have hard hearts and obdurate minds,
But vicious, harebrained, and illiterate hinds?
The god, seeing him with pity to be moved,
Thereon concluded that he was beloved.
(Love is too full of faith, too credulous,
With folly and false hope deluding us.)
Wherefore, Leander's fancy to surprise,
To the rich Ocean for gifts he flies.
'tis wisdom to give much; a gift prevails
When deep persuading oratory fails.
By this Leander, being near the land,
Cast down his weary feet and felt the sand.
Breathless albeit he were he rested not
Till to the solitary tower he got,
And knocked and called. At which celestial noise
The longing heart of Hero much more joys
Than nymphs and shepherds when the timbrel rings,
Or crooked dolphin when the sailor sings.
She stayed not for her robes but straight arose
And, drunk with gladness, to the door she goes,
Where seeing a naked man, she screeched for fear
(Such sights as this to tender maids are rare)
And ran into the dark herself to hide.
(Rich jewels in the dark are soonest spied) .
Unto her was he led, or rather drawn
By those white limbs which sparkled through the lawn.
The nearer that he came, the more she fled,
And, seeking refuge, slipped into her bed.
Whereon Leander sitting thus began,
Through numbing cold, all feeble, faint, and wan.
'If not for love, yet, love, for pity sake,
Me in thy bed and maiden bosom take.
At least vouchsafe these arms some little room,
Who, hoping to embrace thee, cheerly swum.
This head was beat with many a churlish billow,
And therefore let it rest upon thy pillow.'
Herewith affrighted, Hero shrunk away,
And in her lukewarm place Leander lay,
Whose lively heat, like fire from heaven fet,
Would animate gross clay and higher set
The drooping thoughts of base declining souls
Than dreary Mars carousing nectar bowls.
His hands he cast upon her like a snare.
She, overcome with shame and sallow fear,
Like chaste Diana when Actaeon spied her,
Being suddenly betrayed, dived down to hide her.
And, as her silver body downward went,
With both her hands she made the bed a tent,
And in her own mind thought herself secure,
O'ercast with dim and darksome coverture.
And now she lets him whisper in her ear,
Flatter, entreat, promise, protest and swear;
Yet ever, as he greedily assayed
To touch those dainties, she the harpy played,
And every limb did, as a soldier stout,
Defend the fort, and keep the foeman out.
For though the rising ivory mount he scaled,
Which is with azure circling lines empaled,
Much like a globe (a globe may I term this,
By which love sails to regions full of bliss)
Yet there with Sisyphus he toiled in vain,
Till gentle parley did the truce obtain.
Wherein Leander on her quivering breast
Breathless spoke something, and sighed out the rest;
Which so prevailed, as he with small ado
Enclosed her in his arms and kissed her too.
And every kiss to her was as a charm,
And to Leander as a fresh alarm,
So that the truce was broke and she, alas,
(Poor silly maiden)  at his mercy was.
Love is not full of pity (as men say)
But deaf and cruel where he means to prey.
Even as a bird, which in our hands we wring,
Forth plungeth and oft flutters with her wing,
She trembling strove.
This strife of hers (like that
Which made the world)  another world begat
Of unknown joy. Treason was in her thought,
And cunningly to yield herself she sought.
Seeming not won, yet won she was at length.
In such wars women use but half their strength.
Leander now, like Theban Hercules,
Entered the orchard of th' Hesperides;
Whose fruit none rightly can describe but he
That pulls or shakes it from the golden tree.
And now she wished this night were never done,
And sighed to think upon th' approaching sun;
For much it grieved her that the bright daylight
Should know the pleasure of this blessed night,
And them, like Mars and Erycine, display
Both in each other's arms chained as they lay.
Again, she knew not how to frame her look,
Or speak to him, who in a moment took
That which so long so charily she kept,
And fain by stealth away she would have crept,
And to some corner secretly have gone,
Leaving Leander in the bed alone.
But as her naked feet were whipping out,
He on the sudden clinged her so about,
That, mermaid-like, unto the floor she slid.
One half appeared, the other half was hid.
Thus near the bed she blushing stood upright,
And from her countenance behold ye might
A kind of twilight break, which through the hair,
As from an orient cloud, glimpsed here and there,
And round about the chamber this false morn
Brought forth the day before the day was born.
So Hero's ruddy cheek Hero betrayed,
And her all naked to his sight displayed,
Whence his admiring eyes more pleasure took
Than Dis, on heaps of gold fixing his look.
By this, Apollo's golden harp began
To sound forth music to the ocean,
Which watchful Hesperus no sooner heard
But he the bright day-bearing car prepared
And ran before, as harbinger of light,
And with his flaring beams mocked ugly night,
Till she, o'ercome with anguish, shame, and rage,
Danged down to hell her loathsome carriage.
No longer could the Day nor Destinies
Delay the Night, who now did frowning rise
Into her throne; and at her humorous breasts
Visions and Dreams lay sucking: all men's rests
Fell like the mists of death upon their eyes,
Day's too-long darts so kill'd their faculties.
The Winds yet, like the flowers, to cease began;
For bright Leucote, Venus' whitest swan,
That held sweet Hero dear, spread her fair wings,
Like to a field of snow, and message brings
From Venus to the Fates, t'entreat them lay
Their charge upon the Winds their rage to stay,
That the stern battle of the seas might cease,
And guard Leander to his love in peace.
The Fates consent;--ay me, dissembling Fates!
They showed their favours to conceal their hates,
And draw Leander on, lest seas too high
Should stay his too obsequious destiny:
Who like a fleering slavish parasite,
In warping profit or a traitorous sleight,
Hoops round his rotten body with devotes,
And pricks his descant face full of false notes;
Praising with open throat, and oaths as foul
As his false heart, the beauty of an owl;
Kissing his skipping hand with charmed skips,
That cannot leave, but leaps upon his lips
Like a cock-sparrow, or a shameless quean
Sharp at a red-lipp'd youth, and naught doth mean
Of all his antic shows, but doth repair
More tender fawns, and takes a scatter'd hair
From his tame subject's shoulder; whips and calls
For everything he lacks; creeps 'gainst the walls
With backward humbless, to give needless way:
Thus his false fate did with Leander play.
First to black Eurus flies the white Leucote
(Born 'mongst the negroes in the Levant sea,
On whose curl'd heads the glowing sun doth rise),
And shows the sovereign will of Destinies,
To have him cease his blasts; and down he lies.
Next, to the fenny Notus course she holds,
And found him leaning, with his arms in folds,
Upon a rock, his white hair full of showers;
And him she chargeth by the fatal powers,
To hold in his wet cheeks his cloudy voice.
To Zephyr then that doth in flowers rejoice:
To snake-foot Boreas next she did remove,
And found him tossing of his ravished love,
To heat his frosty bosom hid in snow;
Who with Leucote's sight did cease to blow.
Thus all were still to Hero's heart's desire;
Who with all speed did consecrate a fire
Of flaming gums and comfortable spice,
To light her torch, which in such curious price
She held, being object to Leander's sight,
That naught but fires perfumed must give it light.
She loved it so, she griev'd to see it burn,
Since it would waste, and soon to ashes turn:
Yet, if it burned not, 'twere not worth her eyes;
What made it nothing, gave it all the prize.
Sweet torch, true glass of our society!
What man does good, but he consumes thereby?
But thou wert loved for good, held high, given show;
Poor virtue loathed for good, obscured, held low:
Do good, be pined,--be deedless good, disgraced;
Unless we feed on men, we let them fast.
Yet Hero with these thoughts her torch did spend:
When bees make wax, Nature doth not intend
It should be made a torch; but we, that know
The proper virtue of it, make it so,
And, when 'tis made, we light it: nor did Nature
Propose one life to maids; but each such creature
Makes by her soul the best of her free state,
Which without love is rude, disconsolate,
And wants love's fire to make it mild and bright,
Till when, maids are but torches wanting light.
Thus 'gainst our grief, not cause of grief, we fight:
The right of naught is glean'd, but the delight.
Up went she: but to tell how she descended,
Would God she were dead, or my verse ended!
She was the rule of wishes, sum, and end,
For all the parts that did on love depend:
Yet cast the torch his brightness further forth;
But what shines nearest best, holds truest worth.
Leander did not through such tempests swim
To kiss the torch, although it lighted him:
But all his powers in her desires awaked,
Her love and virtues clothed him richly naked.
Men kiss but fire that only shows pursue;
Her torch and Hero, figure show and virtue.
Now at opposed Abydos naught was heard
But bleating flocks, and many a bellowing herd,
Slain for the nuptials; cracks of falling woods;
Blows of broad axes; pourings out of floods.
The guilty Hellespont was mix'd and stained
With bloody torrents that the shambles rained;
Not arguments of feast, but shows that bled,
Foretelling that red night that followed.
More blood was spilt, more honours were addrest,
Than could have graced any happy feast;
Rich banquets, triumphs, every pomp employs
His sumptuous hand; no miser's nuptial joys.
Air felt continual thunder with the noise
Made in the general marriage-violence;
And no man knew the cause of this expense,
But the two hapless lords, Leander's sire,
And poor Leander, poorest where the fire
Of credulous love made him most rich surmis'd:
As short was he of that himself he prized,
As is an empty gallant full of form,
That thinks each look an act, each drop a storm,
That falls from his brave breathings; most brought up
In our metropolis, and hath his cup
Brought after him to feasts; and much palm bears
For his rare judgment in th' attire he wears;
Hath seen the hot Low-Countries, not their heat,
Observes their rampires and their buildings yet;
And, for your sweet discourse with mouths, is heard
Giving instructions with his very beard;
Hath gone with an ambassador, and been
A great man's mate in travelling, even to Rhene;
And then puts all his worth in such a face
As he saw brave men make, and strives for grace
To get his news forth: as when you descry
A ship, with all her sail contends to fly
Out of the narrow Thames with winds unapt,
Now crosseth here, then there, then this way rapt,
And then hath one point reach'd, then alters all,
And to another crooked reach doth fall
Of half a bird-bolt's shoot, keeping more coil
Than if she danc'd upon the ocean's toil;
So serious is his trifling company,
In all his swelling ship of vacantry
And so short of himself in his high thought
Was our Leander in his fortunes brought,
And in his fort of love that he thought won;
But otherwise he scorns comparison.
O sweet Leander, thy large worth I hide
In a short grave! ill-favour'd storms must chide
Thy sacred favour; I in floods of ink
Must drown thy graces, which white papers drink,
Even as thy beauties did the foul black seas;
I must describe the hell of thy decease,
That heaven did merit: yet I needs must see
Our painted fools and cockhorse peasantry
Still, still usurp, with long lives, loves, and lust,
The seats of Virtue, cutting short as dust
Her dear-bought issue: ill to worse converts,
And tramples in the blood of all deserts.
Night close and silent now goes fast before
The captains and the soldiers to the shore,
On whom attended the appointed fleet
At Sestos' bay, that should Leander meet,
Who feigned he in another ship would pass:
Which must not be, for no one mean there was
To get his love home, but the course he took.
Forth did his beauty for his beauty look,
And saw her through her torch, as you behold
Sometimes within the sun a face of gold,
Formed in strong thoughts, by that tradition's force
That says a god sits there and guides his course.
His sister was with him; to whom he show'd
His guide by sea, and said, 'Oft have you view'd
In one heaven many stars, but never yet
In one star many heavens till now were met.
See, lovely sister! see, now Hero shines,
No heaven but her appears; each star repines,
And all are clad in clouds, as if they mourned
To be by influence of earth out-burned.
Yet doth she shine, and teacheth Virtue's train
Still to be constant in hell's blackest reign,
Though even the gods themselves do so entreat them
As they did hate, and earth as she would eat them.'
Off went his silken robe, and in he leapt,
Whom the kind waves so licorously cleapt,
Thickening for haste, one in another, so,
To kiss his skin, that he might almost go
To Hero's tower, had that kind minute lasted.
But now the cruel Fates with Ate hasted
To all the winds, and made them battle fight
Upon the Hellespont, for either's right
Pretended to the windy monarchy;
And forth they brake, the seas mixed with the sky,
And tossed distressed Leander, being in hell,
As high as heaven: bliss not in height doth dwell.
The Destinies sate dancing on the waves,
To see the glorious Winds with mutual braves
Consume each other: O, true glass, to see
How ruinous ambitious statists be
To their own glories! Poor Leander cried
For help to sea-born Venus she denied;
To Boreas, that, for his Atthaea's sake
He would some pity on his Hero take,
And for his own love's sake, on his desires;
But Glory never blows cold Pity's fires.
Then call'd he Neptune, who, through all the noise,
Knew with affright his wreck'd Leander's voice,
And up he rose; for haste his forehead hit
'Gainst heaven's hard crystal; his proud waves he smit
With his forked sceptre, that could not obey;
Much greater powers than Neptune's gave them sway.
They loved Leander so, in groans they brake
When they came near him; and such space did take
'Twixt one another, loath to issue on,
That in their shallow furrows earth was shown,
And the poor lover took a little breath:
But the curst Fates sate spinning of his death
On every wave, and with the servile Winds
Tumbled them on him. And now Hero finds,
By that she felt, her dear Leander's state:
She wept, and prayed for him to every Fate;
And every Wind that whipped her with her hair
About the face, she kissed and spake it fair,
Kneeled to it, gave it drink out of her eyes
To quench his thirst: but still their cruelties
Even her poor torch envied, and rudely beat
The baiting flame from that dear food it eat;
Dear, for it nourish'd her Leander's life;
Which with her robe she rescued from their strife;
But silk too soft was such hard hearts to break;
And she, dear soul, even as her silk, faint, weak,
Could not preserve it; out, O, out it went!
Leander still call'd Neptune, that now rent
His brackish curls, and tore his wrinkled face,
Where tears in billows did each other chase;
And, burst with ruth, he hurl'd his marble mace
At the stern Fates: it wounded Lachesis
That drew Leander's thread, and could not miss
The thread itself, as it her hand did hit,
But smote it full, and quite did sunder it.
The more kind Neptune raged, the more he razed
His love's life's fort, and kill'd as he embraced:
Anger doth still his own mishap increase;
If any comfort live, it is in peace.
O thievish Fates, to let blood, flesh, and sense,
Build two fair temples for their excellence,
To robe it with a poisoned influence!
Though souls' gifts starve, the bodies are held dear
In ugliest things; sense-sport preserves a bear:
But here naught serves our turns: O heaven and earth,
How most-most wretched is our human birth!
And now did all the tyrannous crew depart,
Knowing there was a storm in Hero's heart,
Greater than they could make, and scorn'd their smart.
She bow'd herself so low out of her tower,
That wonder 'twas she fell not ere her hour,
With searching the lamenting waves for him:
Like a poor snail, her gentle supple limb
Hung on her turret's top, so most downright,
As she would dive beneath the darkness quite,
To find her jewel;--jewel!--her Leander,
A name of all earth's jewels pleas'd not her
Like his dear name: 'Leander, still my choice,
Come naught but my Leander! O my voice,
Turn to Leander! henceforth be all sounds,
Accents and phrases, that show all griefs' wounds,
Analyzed in Leander! O black change!
Trumpets, do you, with thunder of your clange,
Drive out this change's horror! My voice faints:
Where all joy was, now shriek out all complaints!'
Thus cried she; for her mixed soul could tell
Her love was dead: and when the Morning fell
Prostrate upon the weeping earth for woe,
Blushes, that bled out of her cheeks, did show
Leander brought by Neptune, bruis'd and torn
With cities' ruins he to rocks had worn,
To filthy usuring rocks, that would have blood,
Though they could get of him no other good.
She saw him, and the sight was much-much more
Than might have serv'd to kill her: should her store
Of giant sorrows speak?--Burst,--die,--bleed,
And leave poor plaints to us that shall succeed.
She fell on her love's bosom, hugged it fast,
And with Leander's name she breathed her last.
Neptune for pity in his arms did take them,
Flung them into the air, and did awake them
Like two sweet birds, surnam'd th' Acanthides,
Which we call Thistle-warps, that near no seas
Dare ever come, but still in couples fly,
And feed on thistle-tops, to testify
The hardness of their first life in their last;
The first, in thorns of love, that sorrows past:
And so most beautiful their colours show,
As none (so little) like them; her sad brow
A sable velvet feather covers quite,
Even like the forehead-cloth that, in the night,
Or when they sorrow, ladies use to wear:
Their wings, blue, red, and yellow, mixed appear:
Colours that, as we construe colours, paint
Their states to life;--the yellow shows their saint,
The dainty Venus, left them; blue their truth;
The red and black, ensigns of death and ruth.
And this true honour from their love-death sprung,--
They were the first that ever poet sung.
A simple being, hero in the classrooms,
Pen and lesson plans are his tools
In imparting knowledge to his learners
a father/ mother of almost sixty.
Teaching children of not his blood,
Nurturing then of knowledge flood,
Burning midnight candles,
Doesn't matter all,
their  achievements are his goal.
Addressing different learning styles,
With various teaching aids on files,
Preparing a friendly atmosphere,
Even none from his relatives care.
The forgotten hero in the classroom,
Toiling overtime forgetting time,
You wonder he is paid under time,
Job unrecognized, being late recognized.
Shock absorber of children's home dilemma,
Protector of children's right,
One lose footing is and err to faulty eyes,
the blame of one, an eraser of myriad works.
He is a hero, the invincible child's dream designer,
His music is the melodious children's laughter,
His destiny is to deal a challenge every year,
His joy is the star of diploma in each students' finger.
when u r alone
with an empty dark heart
thinking of your hero
to come and save u from darkness
u will keep thinking along
if he would come or not
if he would listen to your heart
thinking and thinking and thinking
thinking with no hope
never know if he would come or no
until thinking drove u far
far far away from the world
so when u feel like hope is gone
no one hears u suffering from inside
no one know that u r about todie
and that loneliness is destroying u
just look inside u
then u finally see the truth
that a hero lies in u
a hero will take u from loneliness
come on be strong
u have waste so much
get up and enjoy your life
a happy no ending life
Hail great hero!
Hero brave!
We praise you hero!
I your slave
Now duly fall
On giving knee
In hero worship
Unto thee!
Now did you hero save our globe
When draped in classic hero’s robe?
And did it flow as reddened blood
As battles raged in fields of mud?
Oh hero tell me of your fame:
Were writhing serpents fair your game?
Did you pierce the dragon’s heart
Intrepid hero; play the part
When Tyrant slain in hero’s fight
On quaking ground thro’ battle’s might?
And did you hero conquer evil -
Waste the minions of the devil?
Oh valiant hero, does your armour
Gleam from ventures steeped in valour?
Your sword oh hero, sparks a glint
From charging steel to give the hint
Of what great chapters Hero's Tome
Might tell to us when heroes roam
Through lands of yore when goblins vile
Sought a chance to kill for bile.
Oh hail thy hero,
Hero tall!
Bless you hero,
As I fall
In blushing shame,
I speak to me…
This mirror aids to fantasise
That I be hero worldly wise,
But meek and mild is all I am:
Hero naught; unbridled scam.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
< br>
Hero hero hero hero
Hero hero hero hero
Hero hero hero hero
A Hero is someone looked up to,
Who others could love to be,
A Hero is someone, who is very courageous,
And willing to put their life aside for another’s happiness or well being,
A Hero is anybody, anybody who can make someone’s day,
Or to help out with a simple chore,
A Hero does not have to be successful,
Or to complete their great intention,
A Hero does not have to be able to fly,
Nor to have any other superhuman power,
A Hero can be of any sex, race, or species,
They do not have to be human,
A Hero is not somebody, who is good at everything,
They don’t even have to be good at very well anything,
A Hero is somebody, who could only listen,
They could make you smile with out any words,
A Hero is someone, who could stand up for you,
Or to agree in your beliefs,
A Hero could be your Teacher,
helping you learn towards your future,
A Hero is anybody, and everybody,
Everyone is someone’s Hero,
And everybody has a Hero.
You're my hero; you saved me.
I believe in the change their might be.
Came upon the frightning storm throughtout my days.
I can't believe how much I've overcome, it feels like a haze.
Horrifying moments where I feel like I'd lose all hope.
Coming this far, I didn't think I'd know how the hell to cope.
I've seen the worst of the worst, and it sickened my mind.
But look at all the people in my life; they're my ray of sunshine.
I was pushed on my own feet, and got knocked on the ground.
Now that I have you...I'm no longer in the 'last and found.'
It takes a long time to realize the good comes from the bad.
No longer look back at my life, and have the need to feel sad.
Damn, if I couldn't say if you weren't in my life, I don't know where the hell I'd be.
I got someone knocking on my door, and it's my hero that I see.
It brings a smile to my face knowing certain people haven't given up on me.
Try to be in my shoes, and see if you would've made it through.
You'd look at that girl, pass her by, and think who woulda knew.
Well now you know and know what's in my heart too.
You're my hero, and I'd never lose you.
No one sits with him
he doesnt fit in
we feel like we do when we make fun of him
cause you want to belong
Do you go along
his pain is the price paid for you to belong
its not like you hate him or want him to die
but maybe he goes home and thinks suicide
or he comes back to school with a gun at his side
and a kindness from you might  have saved his life
Heros are made when you make a choice
you could be a hero
heros do whats right
you could be a hero
you might save a life
you could be a hero
you could join the fight
for whats rights, for what right, for whats right
no one talks to her she feels so alone
shes in to much pain to survive on her own
the hurt she cant handle overflows to a knive
she writes on her arm
wants to give up her life
each day she goes on is a day thats shes brave
fighting the lie that giving up is the way
each moment of courage
her own life she saves
when she throws the pills out
a hero is made
you could be a hero
heros do whats right
you could be a hero
you might save a life
you could be hero
you could join the fight
for whats right, for whats right, for whats right
no one talks to him about how he lives
he thinks that the choices he makes are just his
doesnt know hes a leader with hte way he behaves
and others will follow the choices hes made
he lives on the edge
hes old enough to decide
his brother who wants to be him is just nine
he can do what he wants
because its his right
the choices he makes change a nine year olds life
Heros are made when you make a choice
'Jack fell as he'd have wished,' the Mother said,
And folded up the letter that she'd read.
'The Colonel writes so nicely.' Something broke
In the tired voice that quavered to a choke.
She half looked up. 'We mothers are so proud
Of our dead soldiers.' Then her face was bowed.
Quietly the Brother Officer went out.
He'd told the poor old dear some gallant lies
That she would nourish all her days, no doubt.
For while he coughed and mumbled, her weak eyes
Had shone with gentle triumph, brimmed with joy,
Because he'd been so brave, her glorious boy.
He thought how 'Jack', cold-footed, useless swine,
Had panicked down the trench that night the mine
Went up at Wicked Corner; how he'd tried
To get sent home, and how, at last, he died,
Blown to small bits. And no one seemed to care
Except that lonely woman with white hair.
The climbing high was stone by stone
bloodied hands and striated hearts
scattered behind on the trail;
some crying years
and many happy ones;
but our life has been to be sure an upward struggle
to mountain climb, one after another.
Yet at each boulder and rock you offered me
a rope and line
and each time lifted up
me along with your self.
How can a climber of rocks lift both self
and another, but you do so and have done.
This is hero stuff and you are mine.
Beaten back and beaten down you surpassed
all that
was placed in your path and humor greeted
each strife and set-back.
The twinkled eye-your mischievous grin-
took its place at every battle scene
and you emerged from smoke and hue
unscathed, both us and you.
This is hero stuff.
I lay down my Cloth of Gold in salute
for you to step upon
for I am sure your foot will only lightly touch-
nay float above-
not because you are divinity
but because you take life lightly as it comes-
good humor, allows you to float-
scaling every mountain such
that it becomes an adventure it seems
characterizing the scaling up
and that is because of you my dear.
You are hero stuff.
Richard strained his eyes
and watched his deliverer
merge into misty shadows.
Never would he know
whose strong arms had dragged him
from  twisted metal and flames
that used to be his Ford.
At  first screaming sirens
and glaring lights
the stranger had risen, smiled
and hastened up the hill.
Haloed in photo flashes
Richard shoved the mike aside.
The lady in a blazer asked again, who?
but Richard only shrugged.
Had he known he wouldn’t have said.
July,  2006
A face seen passing in a crowded street,
A voice heard singing music, large and free;
And from that moment life is changed, and we
Become of more heroic temper, meet
To freely ask and give, a man complete
Radiant because of faith, we dare to be
What Nature meant us. Brave idolatry
Which can conceive a hero! No deceit,
No knowledge taught by unrelenting years,
Can quench this fierce, untamable desire.
We know that what we long for once achieved
Will cease to satisfy. Be still our fears;
If what we worship fail us, still the fire
Burns on, and it is much to have believed.
Said he: "You saw the Master clear;
By Rushy Pond alone he sat,
Serene and silent as a seer,
in tweedy coat and seedy hat.
you tell me you did not intrude,
(Although his book was in your hand,)
Upon his melancholy mood . . .
I do not understand.
"You did not tell him: 'I have come
From o'er the sea to speak to you.'
You did not dare, your lips were dumb . . .
You thought a little zephyr blew
From Rushy Pond a touch of him
You'll cherish to your dying day,
Perhaps with tears your eyes were dim . . .
And then - you went away.
"And down the years you will proclaim:
'O call me dullard, dub me dunce!
But let this be my meed of fame:
I looked on Thomas Hardy once.
Aye, by a stile I stood a span
And with these eyes did plainly see
A little, shrinking, shabby man . . .
But Oh a god to me!'"
Said I: "'Tis true, I scarce dared look,
yet he would have been kind, I'm sure;
But though I clutched his precious book
I feared to beg his signature.
Ah yes, my friend, I merit mirth.
You're bold, you have the right to laugh,
And if Christ came again to earth
You'd cadge his autograph."
He has just turned fifty his fastest pace slow
He is not the man he was twenty years ago
When they used to toast him at the local pub
And he was the hero of the football club
But time it did not wait for him time it ticked on
And he can only talk now of his better days gone
When he was his football club's number 1 player
And he could run as fast as a wildborn hare
And though he has such good memories of the past
The Seasons came and went and time went so fast
Whilst yet not an old man his hair is quite gray
And clearly he has known a far better day
Two decades ago when his hair was dark brown
He was a big hero the toast of the town.
He never asked to be a hero
For him, playing ball would be just fine
Potentially his chance was less than zero
To overcome that black-white racist line
Unlike Duke, Dimag and Mickey
Jackie entered through back doors
The stage was set by Mr. Rickey
For Robinson to fight that Civil War
Sports, they say, mirrors society
So, they should have hung their heads in shame
For what was then America's propriety
Brought prejudice to every game
The Brooklyn Bums, at long last, found salvation
When Robinson's talents were revealed
With the awesome double-play combination
Reese and Jackie brought to Ebbetts Field
Stealing fan's hearts with baseball fire
Displaying skills in every way
Robinson played with such desire
Stealing bases most every day
They could never expect fom him the expected
He turned the most racist hate to love
And finally he was most respected
Respect that came from more than bat and glove
For Jackie, baseball was more than just a game
He opened doors for Campy, Mays and others
Number 42, now in the Hall of Fame
Proved men of all colors could play in life as brothers
He never asked to be a hero!
Let Me Be Your HERO
By: Jo E
My daughter, let me be your Hero.
Let me take you hand and lead you into a dance.
Let me look at you and take you in my arms.
Dance with me in the Rain.
But most of all my daughter 'Let me be you Hero'
Let me show you how much you are loved.
Let me show you how much I LOVE YOU.
Let me just protect you.
But most of all, will you Let me be YOUR  HERO
Let me be YOUR HERO
Take my hand, and i will lead you.
I will lead you to the most beautiful, wonderful, magic place where its just you and me!
Let me be Your HERO
I will take you hand in mine and never let go
Let me be YOUR HERO
I will love you till eternity
Let me be YOU HERO
Let me hold you in my arms where u just want to cry
Let me be YOUR HERO
I wil protect you, when there is no one to protect you. Ill BE YOUR HERO!
WIll you just let me be you HERO?
My Daughter ILL be YOUR HERO if only you will LET ME BE YOUR HERO!
©2009
I've now concluded
after giving it much thought;
For all people a hero is sought.
Inspired by many,
some more so than another.
But none so much as my dear Mother.
It's taken these years
to realize her full impact,
But she's my hero and that's a fact.
She showed us love,
and taught us wrong from right,
Always keeping our future in sight.
Being a single mom,
She taught me to endure
And of my self to be sure.
She taught love of God above
and fear of Satan below.
No doubt... My mom is my hero!!!
I just sat there
trying to hold in
all my emotions
I didn't want to give in.
But then you showed me
bottling up emotions doesn't always work
it only leaves you feeling
like a totally worthless dork.
So I gave in to you
and told you what was going on
and together we fought this thing
that was going terribly wrong.
You gave me the strength I needed
to just carry on
without you,
my happiness would be gone.
You were my shoulder to lean on
you knew just what to say
you knew when I needed a hug
or I just needed you to pray.
so I want to thank you
for always being there
even when I myself have forgotten
what it's like to care.
Thanks for putting up
with all the things I've put you through
you are truly the greatest friend
I have ever knew.
When I was a little kid about 7 or 8 years old there was this girl. She was a lot older then me. She took care of me when my foster mother and father had a break. She was really caring and polite. I was really fussy but she got me what ever I needed. She showed me there is good out there. So I tried being like her. There was one time she let me steer her car, she still had control of the gas and the brake, I thought it was the coolest thing. When I grew up I noticed when you had no control over anything, you can have control for just a little at a time. You start to know your mistakes. When I was steering that car I was swerving, but I had her to correct my mistakes. Her correcting them for me while I was by her side, I learned it a lot faster then I would of on my own. Now we aren't that close to each other, and I started to forget what she taught me that one day. I didn't like how I was treating other people and I thought about stuff to be a better person.  I thought and thought about it and I remembered what she did for me. I was changing a little at a time. There was a lot more then what I  wrote in this story. I don't know how to thank her, maybe this story will do more than I think. Thank You for being my hero.
My hero bares his nerves along my wrist
That rules from wrist to shoulder,
Unpacks the head that, like a sleepy ghost,
Leans on my mortal ruler,
The proud spine spurning turn and twist.
And these poor nerves so wired to the skull
Ache on the lovelorn paper
I hug to love with my unruly scrawl
That utters all love hunger
And tells the page the empty ill.
My hero bares my side and sees his heart
Tread; like a naked Venus,
The beach of flesh, and wind her bloodred plait;
Stripping my loin of promise,
He promises a secret heat.
He holds the wire from this box of nerves
Praising the mortal error
Of birth and death, the two sad knaves of thieves,
And the hunger's emperor;
He pulls that chain, the cistern moves.
you have been there for me
whether i wanted you or not
you mean everything to me
and i know it might not show
but you are my only hero
you keep me
on the right path
you open doors
and you push me high
so that i can fly
as far as i can go
i know we argue
and i know we bicker
but through all and all
it ends the same
you know me more
than i know me
you show me things
i'd never see
i know that to you
i mean everything
but did you know
you are my everything
you gave me all i have
and show me what i don't
you keep me humble
and you keep me true
but the best you do
is let me know what i do
and no matter what i do
you'll still be there
you are the only one
who has stayed with me
stayed by me
and loved me
through all these things
are the reasons why
you are and always will be
my hero
There was a time you held my hand
as a child too young to understand.
You repaired broken toys and shined everyone's shoes.
Regaled WWII stories at least a thousand times or two.
It was you who introduced me to the University of Notre Dame,
and ultimately, I realized nothing would ever be the same.
I recall my first visit to the campus, oh so vividly.
The beautiful Lady atop the Golden Dome looked just heavenly.
Your job at Hercules gave you such tremendous satisfaction.
How about my unexpected visit and your surprised reaction.
After 37 years and retirement, it didn't end right there.
Playing and arranging music, you accomplished with quite a flair.
The talent you displayed was indeed incredible.
Nat King Cole described you as "Unforgettable." In 1991, you gave me a beautiful Christmas tree
with twinkling lights that glistened and shined so brightly.
Thanks to you, the holidays are my favorite time of year
because it's such a joy to decorate and fill my home with cheer.
Dad, there would never be anyone else for me but you.
You're my hero and my shining star -- a love forever true.
☼ This poem is in the memory of my great-grandmother who gave me nothing but good memories. If anyone was ever a hero of mine, it would’ve been her. She always had a smile and hug for me. Even in her last few weeks she always gave me the strength that I needed.
Feeling the wind brush my cheek
The warm sun settling on my skin
Where could you be?
Sometimes in the wind I hear you speak
Every time my tears fill to the brim
Can you hear me?
Every night I count the stars
Remembering everything I can about you
Are you truly watching over me?
Ever since you died it seems, you have so far
Am I everything you’d thought I’d be?
Please tell me you’re not disappointed in what you see...
I’d give anything to be by your side right now.
To see your simple smile
To feel the soft touch of your hand
And know that you love me too
In your eyes I see my own
A talent of yours I have
Though very few memories of you I have
I hold each one with pride
Just as I do for your artwork
All of which hang on my wall
Presented for all
Grandma I miss you
July 4th,2009
I sit in the chair that he sat in,
And sleep in the bed where he slept,
The silence is loud to my hearing,
How many times now, have I wept.
I view all the things that he collected,
Knowing how he cherished them too,
And here in my heart he will linger,
Because he was the one, of value.
He was my love and my hero,
My right hand and my sounding board,
A husband and friend, right up to the end,
For us there was never discord.
I sit in the chair that he sat in,
And remember how close we became,
He'll always be with me in spirit,
I'm so proud to have taken his name.
©   Ernestine Northover
Jesus my Hero God & man
My Lord who’s never far
I salute You because I can
And who in truth You are
What so many consider odd
Contra what fools may say
There really is an awesome God
Through love to show The Way
The Way to love to endless bliss
Beyond this world of fears
To a life far greater than this
In a Land free of tears
He is my strength my trusted shield
My fortress and my sword
Now to the foe I’ll never yield
My Hero is The Lord
A precious God a wondrous King
A Hero born to free
Who’s praises forever I’ll sing
For saving such as me
With hands aloft with head held high
With eyes watching above
Together my Hero and I
Will show my neighbours love
Surely my Hero I salute
For giving me His hand
That I may bear my Saviour fruit
Towards His Promised Land
Perhaps these eyes may soon grow dim
I’ll trust who is my friend
Should I wonder seeing in Him?
My Hero to the end
My Hero is Many,
My Hero is One.
My Hero Proudly Holds a Gun.
My Hero Fights,
My Hero Kills,
My Hero Falls Out in the Field.
My Hero Laughs,
My Hero Cries,
My Hero Tries and Tries and Dies.
My Hero is Dirty,
My Hero is Smart,
My Hero Charges Towards the Front.
My Hero's a Soldier,
My Hero's a Marine,
My Hero's A Sailor Riding Across the Seas.
My Hero's an Airman,
My Hero Sacrifices,
My Hero Loves.
My Hero is Mine
My hero is the best,
He is better than all the rest,
My hero doesn’t like to admit,
That he is my hero when he dose his little bit
My hero has love and respect,
Even he is my prime subject,
My hero is always on my mind,
Even though he is smart and kind,
My hero has a special name,
But I can’t tell you it cause it would put him in shame
My hero loves to pull a trick,
He is not smart no is he very thick?
My hero makes me smile even though I feel crying,
He says 'I will always love you even though I am dyeing'
25/2/06
Of all the boys with whom I fought
In Africa and Sicily,
Bill was the bravest of the lot
In our dare-devil Company.
That lad would rather die than yield;
His gore he glorified to spill,
And so in every battlefield
A hero in my eyes was Bill.
Then when the bloody war was done,
He moseyed back to our home town,
And there, a loving mother's son,
Like other kids he settled down.
His old girl seemed a shade straight-laced,
For when I called my buddy "Bill,"
She looked at me with some distaste,
Suggesting that his name was "Will."
And then he had to get engaged,
And took unto himself a wife;
And so inevitably caged,
He settled down to wedded life.
He introduced me to his Missis,
But oh I thought her rather silly,
For in between their frequent kisses
She called my hard-boiled here: "Willie."
Now he has long forgot the War,
The which he did a lot to win,
And feeling full of ginger for
He's happy Pop of cherubs twin.
Yet with his air: "Don't care a damn,"
On Main Street he's my hero still . . .
As proud he wheels a double pram
What guy has got the guts of Bill!
my hero, my hero didnt have any special powers,
because my hero didnt fight
my hero didnt have any wings
because my hero didnt fly
my hero didnt have any special costumes
because my hero didnt like any heroes
my hero is diffrent than any kind of supercreatures
my hero is just an ordinary humanbeings
my hero makes me smart
my hero changes my future
my hero makes me know something
because my heroes is my teachers.
god bless you, teachers.
My Hero can't leap tall buildings with a single bound. He
doesn't wear a black costume with a cape and pointy ears.
He hasn't scored the winning touchdown or shot a three -
pointer at the buzzer to win the championship. My Hero
isn't any of those things.
My Hero has scarred and callused hands from years of hard
work. His hair is gray from worrying if he was going to
have enough money to last another year. His voice is deep
and scratchy from the many stories he told. My Hero is all
of these things.
My Hero sat with me when I was scared late at night. He was
by my side when I woke up from burn surgery. He comforted
me when I had to take cold baths cause my fever was too high.
My Hero was all these things.
My Hero has loved his wife for almost thirty years now. He
made sure that I knew the difference between right and
wrong. He taught me how to work hard and the importance of
honesty. My Hero has done all these things.
My Hero has earned my love and respect. No one else could
take his place cause my Hero is my Dad.
I was told to draw my hero
something to fight away the bad
while kids drew weapons, superheros, hope
i drew a candle instead
An amazing ally my candle was
archnemesis it burnt
blinding enemies with light
Pointless, but I was hurt
It burned bright in my darkest hours
my little waxy friend
it brought light into unknown corners
onto doubt it would decend
Through the dark my candle led
Sheding light on all my fears
My hope once frozen now flies free
For one and all to hear
'why this hero? ' you may ask
why simply, its a fact
I'd rather face my fears you see,
then try to push them back
When its late at night
And I am all alone
I look up at the sky
And remember you are gone
Gone from this place
Where I am at now
Gone to a place
That I disavow
It’s hot and sandy
I never want to go
It’s far and distant
I will never fully know
When I get a call
Few and far between
You have to watch what you say
For reasons left unseen
I don’t know what you’re doing
Or where you are at.
I don’t know who your with
Are you somewhere in combat?
I want you here with me
I want you by my side
I want you for my self
This feeling I will not hide
There is so much you are missing
With our little girl
You’ve never even seen
Her cute little curl
Somewhere in Iraq
Fighting in their war
Is my loving husband
Of whom I most adore
Months go by
Time fades away
My love grows stronger
Each and everyday
My husband, my soldier
My hero, my friend
I love you right now
I love you till the end
Before we even know it
You will be home
In this place together
We will forever roam
My husband, my soldier
My hero, my friend
You and me together
Our love will transcend
DEDICATED TO SGT DAVID LANE, IRAQ 05-06.
June 27,2006
Ned Kelly was a hero and despite what some do say
The legend of his bravery in Australia lives today
As game as Ned Kelly is a well known Aussie quote
The leader of the Kelly gang remains as one of note.
The Kelly gang were victims of unfair local law
And the raping of his sister Kate by the police was surely the last straw
Ned and his brother Dan and their friends Steve Hart and Joe Byrne became outlaws and they ranged far and wide
And they robbed banks in the small Towns of Victoria-New South Wales border Countryside.
The most recognizable Australian in Australia's brief white history
His unfair trial and his hanging in Melbourne jail assured him of immortality
Though far better people than them are long forgotten and gone
The legend of the Kelly gang is with us and lives on.
The Kelly gang were not as ruthless as some make them out to be
They may have caused the deaths of a few Policemen but even those with anti Kelly views agree
That there was some provocation the Kelly gang was on the run
And you shoot back when you are shot at that is the law of the gun.
Ned Kelly is a hero and 'tis said that he died game
And in Australian folklore his is an immortal name
And whatever way you see him on one thing all do agree
That the legend of the Kelly gang lives on in Aussie history.
Looking back I have done much in this life
I was a child, a mother, and a wife
Yet…I am no ones hero
As a child I always tried to be helpful
A little mischievous but wasn’t much trouble
Yet…I am no ones hero
As a mother I read stories, played games, and sang songs
Baked cookies, healed wounds, and righted the wrongs
Yet…I am no ones hero
As a wife I did the laundry, cooked meals, and cleaned house
Took care of the kids, paid bills, tried to be a good spouse
Yet…I am no ones hero
I encouraged triumph, success, glory and fame
Dealt with pain, sorrow, guilt and shame
Yet…I am no ones hero
I have been looked to for security, for guidance in growth
I have loved unconditionally, for that is my oath
Yet…I am no ones hero
I have wrapped my arms around to shield from the outside
In times of turmoil, I have been right beside
Yet…I am no ones hero
I have concluded, after giving it much thought
For everyone, a hero is sought
Yet…I am no ones hero
i caught a frog and put him in a
fishbowl
and said,
'now you know how i feel.'
and he swam to the
bottom
and
drowned himself.
The shells burst around me, my first battle has begun.
I could tell with metal flying this was not for fun.
I flopped in a hole that was tilled with rank muck,
surely I thought this would bring me luck.
Bullets came closer, soon I knew this burrow was not so hot.
I prayed, and I prayed God made them bad shots.
One tore my shoulder, I decided to flee,
crawling through the mud till a medic I could see.
A ticket to home this wound did impart.
Now I'm a vet and a hero with a purple heart.
Our Fallen Hero
Stands tall in our minds
As he lay lifeless
To save your child and mine
A good man he was
We'll hear everyone say
That doesn't even touch
The man he was that day
Many will say
I'd do the same
I'd lay down my life
If tragedy became
Yet, all we do know
Stood a great man
In our time of trouble
He took a stand
His rewards are great
So selfishly we can say
Our Fallen hero
Saved our children that day
11/16/05
In my son and daughters high school this past year a 14 yr. old boy shot 3 of our principals killing 1. He was a great man and still is in all our minds. My son just graduated this May 2006~ and they both were there to speak at his graduation. They came back to work in about 6 weeks after being shot. They both were critically injured and doctors didn't know if they would live. Our head principal was shot 3 times and still took the gunman down and subdued him and then got on the intercom and put the school in lock down. That's what kind of men they all 3 are. I'm proud that my kids have roll models like them in their lives.
Onward to her destination,
O'er the stream that Hannah sped,
When a cry of consternation
Smote and chilled our hearts with dread.
Wildly leaping, madly sweeping,
All relentless in their sway,
Like a band of cruel demons
Flames were closing 'round our way
Oh! the horror of those moments;
Flames above and waves below-
Oh! the agony of ages
Crowded in one hour of woe.
Fainter grew our hearts with anguish
In that hour with peril rife,
When we saw the pilot flying,
Terror-stricken, for his life.
Then a man up rose before us-
We had once despised his race-
But we saw a lofty purpose
Lighting up his darkened face.
While the flames were madly roaring,
With a courage grand and high,
Forth he rushed unto our rescue,
Strong to suffer, brave to die.
Helplessly the boat was drifting,
Death was staring in each face,
When he grasped the fallen rudder,
Took the pilot's vacant place.
Could he save us? Would he save us?
All his hope of life give o'er?
Could he hold that fated vessel
'Till she reached the nearer shore?
All our hopes and fears were centered
'Round his strong, unfaltering hand;
If he failed us we must perish,
Perish just in sight of land.
Breathlessly we watched and waited
While the flames were raging fast;
When our anguish changed to rapture-
We were saved, yes, saved at last.
Never strains of sweetest music
Brought to us more welcome sound.
"Flowers, only flowers -- bring me dainty posies,
Blossoms for forgetfulness," that was all he said;
So we sacked our gardens, violets and roses,
Lilies white and bluebells laid we on his bed.
Soft his pale hands touched them, tenderly caressing;
Soft into his tired eyes came a little light;
Such a wistful love-look, gentle as a blessing;
There amid the flowers waited he the night.
"I would have you raise me; I can see the West then:
I would see the sun set once before I go."
So he lay a-gazing, seemed to be at rest then,
Quiet as a spirit in the golden glow.
So he lay a-watching rosy castles crumbling,
Moats of blinding amber, bastions of flame,
Rugged rifts of opal, crimson turrets tumbling;
So he lay a-dreaming till the shadows came.
"Open wide the window; there's a lark a-singing;
There's a glad lark singing in the evening sky.
How it's wild with rapture, radiantly winging:
Oh it's good to hear that when one has to die.
I am horror-haunted from the hell they found me;
I am battle-broken, all I want is rest.
Ah! It's good to die so, blossoms all around me,
And a kind lark singing in the golden West.
"Flowers, song and sunshine, just one thing is wanting,
Just the happy laughter of a little child."
So we brought our dearest, Doris all-enchanting;
Tenderly he kissed her; radiant he smiled.
"In the golden peace-time you will tell the story
How for you and yours, sweet, bitter deaths were ours. . . .
God bless little children!" So he passed to glory,
So we left him sleeping, still amid the flow'rs.
When I think of my favorite song, it is Hero, by Mariah Carey.
To me, the hero inside me is my Mother, because when I feel
I am facing the world alone, she is always there.
Hero
As I have traveled this long road of life,
There is only one person in my life
Who I could really depend upon
To make me see right from wrong;
She would always make me see
The real me and for that I thank her.
She taught me that all I had to do
Was to look inside to find my true self;
I never really knew what she meant,
But as I get older...
I have begun to understand.
The first time I heard this song
My Mom came to my mind
Because she is my true hero;
She's been there for me through it all,
The good and the not so good times.
She always told me that
The sorrows that I felt
Would soon subside and that
True happiness would find
Its way back to my heart.
And then my hero comes along,
It was my mother all along,
She gave me strength to carry on,
Helped me cast my fears away
When I felt all hope was gone.
She said, 'Just look inside yourself And you will see a better you.'
She has always stood beside me
In everything I've had to do,
Be it right or be it wrong,
She's been there to see me through.
She tells me, search within my self
And a hero I would find;
When no one else reached out to help,
My Mom would always lend a hand
To guide me down the right path.
When that hero comes along,
I have strength to carry on,
And my fears are cast aside
Because I know I can survive
With her strength to carry me
Through life's dark and stormy sea.
So when I feel all hope is gone
I can finally see the truth
And that is that a hero lies in me,
Because you, Mom, were there to guide me through.
Lord knows my dreams have often been Hard to realize, but then
She would always to me say,
Don't let them take your dreams away,
Hold on to them oh so tight
For tomorrow always comes, in time.
You'll find a way to make your dreams come true
So as I sit here writing, Mom, I want to thank you
For all the times you have been there
To pick up the pieces of my broken spirit,
To help mend what needed mending,
And most of all for your love,
You see you are the true HERO in my life.
By MELISSIA ANN SENTER
Soldiers who wish to be a hero
Are practically zero.
But those who wish to be civilians,
Jesus, they run into millions.
Soldiers who wish to be a hero
Are practically zero.
But those who wish to be civilians,
Jesus, they run into millions.
Without sorrow life is zero
We must accept fate's arrow
If our efforts are thorough
Our sorrow, God will borrow
Sorrows nicely shape our mind
Sorrows stop our being blind
Via sorrows, remedies we find
Sorrows are indirectly kind
In the absence of sorrow
Our mind does not grow
We think not like a hero
Our attitude is made narrow
Sorrows must be overcome
For which efforts we welcome
At last strong we become
This is sorrows' outcome
Our will-power, sorrows increase
To our heart, sorrows supply grease
Our talents, only sorrows release
In a gist, sorrows supply peace
Every sorrow at last dies
Not because of our cries
But because our soul tries
Life and success, sorrow ties
Sorrow less person is none
Sorrow is sure, if life has begun
'Sorrow trains brains' is a slogan
Sorrow is a tamable dragon
In sorrow, all must dip
By coming under its grip
All are lashed by sorrow's whip
To every life, sorrow makes a trip
Now sorrow will somehow vanish
But you cannot fully relinquish
Further sorrows, time will furnish
From life, sorrow, none can banish
Life and sorrow are closely associated
By life, sorrow is very much fascinated
By sorrow, peace is initially confiscated
Sorrow grows when life is sophisticated.
Super Hero
Count back from one to zero
Let us find my super hero
Heroes have come and gone
It seems mine is yet to be born
Great deeds have been done
By many deemed as heroes
So to the people of braveness
Of the past and this century
I salute thee
I adore thee
Unfortunately I cannot say
It is Nelson Mandela
The Paladin of Africa
The African humanitarian megastar
For the champion of all champions
Holds the key in my opinion
To the whereabouts of my superhero
It is the one who commands respect
A man or woman who is intellect
Rewind at anytime without ejecting
Kindly and proudly can stand erect
To fight for any great cause
Like the man who they called Jesus
I look for someone who is near perfect
It is the one with bombastic imagination
A man or woman with prodigious vision
Assigned with an inconceivable mission
One who can sustain global peace
And preserve global justice
One who can feed hungry mouths
That lingers in countries all about
One who can inject love & strength
At any given moment
In any particular environment
Yet heroes have come and gone
Died in rain, war and sun
Some remembered, some forgotten
Withered away in time as rotten
Heroes have come and gone
If you are a companion in my thoughts
You will agree
My superhero is yet to be born
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
Superman my hero
Is just like my friend
It was just what I want him to be
Superman my hero
Is giving us hope
He is keeping us free
God's nation
Is in chaos
But there is one man that
Can save us all
Superman my Hero
He flied many times a day in the sky
He touches heaven
Just like the birds do
Superman my hero
I am so proud of him
Superman my hero
I pray for you every day
You have a job, I have one too
I will tell you what gets me through
Strenght, love, and peace
I pray for peace where I am going to be
For you and me
Kids at school
Sending Postcards to those who died overseas in the war
Superman my hero
Keeping busy is what I need to do
And keeping busy these days seems to be the tool
I want to make the hour go fast
So I have to keep myself busy
Superman my hero
Doesn't live in fear
But I do
Superman my hero
Makes sacrifices also
Like I do
Superman my hero
Is landing from the sky right now
He had a perfect landing
Superman my hero
I light a candle for you
May God always bless you
Superman my hero
To the world you gave so much love
Superman my hero
You are an hero
Superman my hero
What are we going to do when our time is up here on earth?
Superman my hero
Your spirit will always be alive in me
You have given your spirit to me and everybody else here on earth
Superman my hero
I am dreaming every night
With you
I know someday my dreams may come true
That's why we are fighting for and doing what we do to save our world
Superman my hero
I hope that others will learn to love you and respect you like I do
Superman I hope others
Will respect our believes and not judge us by what we do
Or by what we haven't done yesterday, today, or tomorrow
Superman my hero
Stands in a shiny sea
Superman my hero
Wants a world were he dominates
And he knows that our land will liberate
A shiny city on top of the hill
Superman my hero
Fighting evil and saving people also
Superman my hero
Has a free will
To help those in need
Superman my hero
It is time to remember what freedom means
It is time to choose freedom
And embrace the future
It is time to choose life
It is time to look after those in need
Because charity begins at home
Superman my hero
I know that together we will get through tough times
Sometimes we just need some courage
Sometimes we need a little prayer
Sometimes we need a helping hand so we can finish our daily tasks
Superman my hero
Let the light shine in your heart, my heart, and  all the people here on Earth
Superman my hero
It is a lucky day
Because you are of flying again like a bird in the sky
Superman my hero
Miracles we will see one day
Superman my hero
Black outs
All the town is out of lights left in the dark
Traffic lights are not working
We can't cook our food
We have to eat can food for a few days
We have to survive some how
Some how we will get through this ordeal
And you are flying high above in the sky
The only thing that is shining at night is the moon
Superman my hero
I know that nobody will live forever
Superman my hero
You were meant to fly
Superman my hero
I sometimes feel powerless
Superman my hero
Once I need to get out
And put my foot out of my door
I know that fresh air  is good for me and everybody else
I have dreams and desires
Superman my hero
Once a while I just need to get away from the computer
My desk and my computer my favorite hide away
Superman my hero
Will take me to a place that I never been before
Superman I believe that we were meant to be friends
Superman my hero
I must speak now or forever hold my peace
Superman my hero
Snow, wind, and rain won't bother superman my hero
Because he always dress up for the kind of weather
He is smart and wise
Superman won't melt but he might freeze in the winter
Because the days are much colder than you ever imagine
Superman my hero
He is a hero
not by sibling ordinal age,
nor by fate.
He did not choose
whatever he became.
You see . . . his father drank himself
out of fortune, family, and prestige,
right into the nothingness
of the streets.
Cold and motionless,
without anyone
to claim what remained,
a city dump truck
took him to the grave.
Not just any power greater than he
but The Lord alone,
led the hero to success
and . . . away from alcohol.
From Meelin he came to Millstreet Town to die
For Ireland with a bullet in hie eye
And though more than eighty years since then have come and gone
The name of brave McCarthy still lives on.
He died in agony and painful pain,
His blood flowed down the flags of Millview Lane
If every Irishman were half so true
Then Ireland now would have the thirty two.
And though his only reward was the grave
McCarthy died for Ireland and died brave
He could have turned and ran away that night
But he stood and fought for what to him was right.
The Irish Republic is a part of Europe now
And our Ministers to Europe's big men bow
If he'd survived and stilll lived on today
'Twould be interesting what he'd have to say.
In Meelin stand a monument to the name
Of the man who brought upon that Village fame
To the noble hearted one of great renown
Who fought and died in famous Millstreet Town.
When you see a Hero,
what do you think of the Hero?
'The Hero is Amazing'
'The Hero saves lives'
'The Hero is a bad person, not even human.'
'He stinks and I don't like the hero.'
People love the hero,
they love the hero cause he saves lives,
they love him cause he protects the city,
Some people don't like the hero cause they are
the ones who do crime.
Crimes like murder, kidnapping, stealing, sell drugs,
rob banks.....   but the person who hates the hero the
most.....  is the Villain.
The ones who hate the Villain the most is the people,
the hero never takes a life, the hero doesn't hate the Villain, the hero wants to help the Villain.
The Villain knows he needs help, but the Villain Doesn't want help, the Villain has been through an emotional life, the villains hates everyone...
Everyone knows a Superhero story goes, the Villain ends up Dead..
Everyone must know this..
Sometimes all the Villains were once heroes..
You die a hero, or you live long enough to see
yourself become the Villain....
Many people the praises of warriors do sing
And they talk of war as if war is a good thing
There are tears in their eyes when the last post is played
And proudly they march in every war parade
Every day in war zones more people do die
And the war supposed to end all wars was based on a lie
And more wars are waged now than ever before
The lessons of history we tend to ignore
The coward from the battle turned and ran away
But the hero is dead and the coward lives today
They talk of the heroes in battles lost and won
But in war there's no winner when all is said and done
From the heat of the battle the coward ran away
But he is a very proud grand-dad today.
The 27th Regiment has mutinied at Kalapore;
That was the substance of a telegram, which caused great uproar,
At Sattara, on the evening of the 8th of July,
And when the British officers heard it, they heaved a bitter sigh.
'Twas in the year of 1857,
Which will long be remembered: Oh! Heaven!
That the Sepoys revolted, and killed their British officers and their wives;
Besides, they killed their innocent children, not sparing one of their lives.
There was one man there who was void of fear,
He was the brave Lieutenant William Alexander Kerr;
And to face the rebels boldly it was his intent,
And he assured his brother officers his men were true to the Government.
And now that the danger was so near at hand,
He was ready to put his men to the test, and them command;
And march to the rescue of his countrymen at Kalapore,
And try to quell the mutiny and barbarous uproar.
And in half an hour he was ready to start,
With fifty brave horsemen, fearless and smart;
And undaunted Kerr and his horsemen rode on without dismay,
And in the middle of the rainy season, which was no child's play.
And after a toilsome march they reached Kalapore,
To find their countrymen pressed very hard and sore;
The mutineers had attacked and defeated the Kalapore Light Infantry,
Therefore their fellow countrymen were in dire extremity.
Then the Sepoys established themselves in a small square fort;
It was a place of strength, and there they did resort;
And Kerr had no guns to batter down the gate,
But nevertheless he felt undaunted, and resigned to his fate.
And darkness was coming on and no time was to be lost,
And he must attack the rebels whatever be the cost;
Therefore he ordered his troopers to prepare to storm the fort,
And at the word of command towards it they did resort.
And seventeen troopers advanced to the attack,
And one of his men, Gumpunt Row Deo Kerr, whose courage wasn't slack;
So great was his courage he couldn't be kept back,
So he resolved with Lieutenant Kerr to make the attack.
Then with crowbars they dashed at the doors vigorously,
Whilst bullets rained around them, but harmlessly;
So they battered on the doors until one gave way,
Then Lieutenant Kerr and his henchmen entered without dismay.
Then Kerr's men rushed in sword in hand,
Oh! what a fearful onslaught, the mutineers couldn't it withstand,
And Kerr's men with straw set the place on fire,
And at last the rebels were forced to retire.
And took refuge in another house, and barricaded it fast,
And prepared to defend themselves to the last;
Then Lieutenant Kerr and Row Deo Kerr plied the crowbars again,
And heavy blows on the woordwork they did rain.
Then the door gave way and they crawled in,
And they two great heroes side by side did begin
To charge the mutineers with sword in hand, which made them grin,
Whilst the clashing of swords and bayonets made a fearful din.
Then hand to hand, and foot to foot, a fierce combat began,
Whilst the blood of the rebels copiously ran,
And a ball cut the chain of Kerr's helmet in two,
And another struck his sword, but the man he slew.
Then a Sepoy clubbed his musket and hit Kerr on the head,
But fortunately the blow didn't kill him dead;
He only staggered, and was about to be bayoneted by a mutineer,
But Gumpunt Kerr laid his assailant dead without fear.
Kerr's little party were now reduced to seven,
Yet fearless and undaunted, and with the help of Heaven,
He gathered his small band possessed of courage bold,
Determined to make a last effort to capture the stronghold.
Then he cried, "My men, we will burn them out,
And suffocate them with smoke, without any doubt!"
So bundles of straw and hay were found without delay,
And they set fire to them against the doors without dismay.
Then Kerr patiently waited till the doors were consumed,
And with a gallant charge, the last attack was resumed,
And he dashed sword in hand into the midst of the mutineers,
And he and his seven troopers played great havoc with their sabres.
So by the skillful war tactics of brave Lieutenant Kerr,
He defeated the Sepoy mutineers and rescued his countrymen dear;
And but for Lieutenant Kerr the British would have met with a great loss,
And for his great service he received the Victoria Cross.
Twas at the camp of Rorke's Drift, and at tea-time,
And busily engaged in culinary operations was a private of the line;
But suddenly he paused, for he heard a clattering din,
When instantly two men on horseback drew rein beside him.
"News from the front!" said one, "Awful news!" said the other,
"Of which, we are afraid, will put us to great bother,
For the black Zulus are coming, and for our blood doth thirst,"
"And the force is cut up to pieces!" shouted the first.
"We're dead beat," said both, "but we've got to go on,"
And on they rode both, looking very woebegone;
Then Henry Hook put all thought of cooking out of his mind,
For he was surrounded with danger on every side he did find.
He was a private of the South Wales Borderers, Henry Hook,
Also a brave soldier, and an hospital cook;
A soldier of the Queen, who was always ready to obey,
And willing to serve God by night and day.
Then away to the Camp he ran, with his mind all in a shiver,
Shouting, "The force is cut up, sir, on the other side of the river!"
Which caused the officer in command with fear to quiver,
When Henry Hook the news to him did deliver.
Then Henry Hook saluted, and immediately retired,
And with courage undaunted his soul was fired,
And the cry rang out wildly, "The Zulus are coming!"
Then the alarm drums were instantly set a-drumming.
Then "Fall in! Fall in!" the commanders did cry,
And the men mustered out, ready to do and to die,
As British soldiers are always ready to do,
But, alas, on this occasion their numbers were but few.
They were only eighty in number, that brave British band,
And brave Lieutenant Broomhead did them command;
He gave orders to erect barricades without delay,
"It's the only plan I can see, men, to drive four thousand savages away."
Then the mealie bags and biscuit boxes were brought out,
And the breastwork was made quickly without fear or doubt,
And barely was it finished when some one cried in dismay,
"There's the Zulus coming just about twelve hundred yards away."
Methinks I see the noble hero, Henry Hook,
Because like a destroying angel he did look,
As he stood at the hospital entrance defending the patients there,
Bayoneting the Zulus, while their cries rent the air,
As they strove hard the hospital to enter in,
But he murdered them in scores, and thought it no sin.
In one of the hospital rooms was stationed Henry Hook,
And every inch a hero he did look,
Standing at his loophole he watched the Zulus come,
All shouting, and yelling, and at a quick run.
On they came, a countless host of savages with a rush,
But the gallant little band soon did their courage crush,
But the cool man Henry Hook at his post began to fire,
And in a short time those maddened brutes were forced to retire.
Still on came the savages into the barricade,
And still they were driven back, but undismayed.
Again they came into the barricade, yet they were driven back,
While darkness fell swift across the sun, dismal and black.
Then into the hospital the savages forced their way,
And in a moment they set fire to it without dismay,
Then Henry Hook flew" to assist the patients in the ward,
And the fighting there was fearful and hard.
With yell and shriek the Zulus rushed to the attack,
But for the sixth time they were driven back
By the brave British band, and Henry Hook,
Who was a brave soldier, surgeon, and hospital cook.
And when Lord Chelmsford heard of the victory that day,
He sent for Henry Hook without delay,
And they took the private before the commander,
And with his braces down, and without his coat, in battle array grandeur.
Then Lord Chelmsford said, "Henry Hook, give me your hand,
For your conduct to day has been hereoic and grand,
And without your assistance to-day we'd been at a loss,
And for your heroic behaviour you shall receive the Victoria Cross."
Crossing the battlefield early today
Amidst bombs dropping, bullets flying,
I saw a soldier kneel to pray
Amongst the wounded and dying.
I could see a cross on his arm
As he knelt in the slimy mud,
He seemed not to show any alarm
Binding wounds, giving blood.
An enemy tank rumbled by
Crushing the wounded and the dead,
A soldier crying,"Am I going to die?
I'm badly wounded in my head."
The medic crawled over to him
Looked, then bowed his head in prayer,
He watched as the lad's eyes grew dim
Then covered the body with loving care.
A shell exploded at his side
Shrapnel ripped into his chest,
On the field the medic died
Thinking, "Lord, I did my best."
'O for a knight like Bayard,
Without reproach or fear;
My light glove on his casque of steel,
My love-knot on his spear!
'O for the white plume floating
Sad Zutphen's field above,
The lion heart in battle,
The woman's heart in love!
'O that man once more were manly,
Woman's pride, and not her scorn
That once more the pale young mother
Dared to boast `a man is born'!
'But, now life's slumberous current
No sun-bowed cascade wakes;
No tall, heroic manhood
The level dulness breaks.
'O for a knight like Bayard,
Without reproach or fear!
My light glove on his casque of steel
My love-knot on his spear!'
Then I said, my own heart throbbing
To the time her proud pulse beat,
'Life hath its regal natures yet,-
True, tender, brave, and sweet!
'Smile not, fair unbeliever!
One man, at least, I know,
Who might wear the crest of Bayard
Or Sydney's plume of snow.
'Once, when over purple mountains
Died away the Grecian sun,
And the far Cyllenian ranges
Paled and darkened, one by one,-
'Fell the Turk, a bolt of thunder,
Cleaving all the quiet sky,
And against his sharp steel lightnings
Stood the Suliote but to die.
'Woe for the weak and halting!
The crescent blazed behind
A curving line of sabres
Like fire before the wind!
'Last to fly, and first to rally,
Rode he of whom I speak,
When, groaning in his bridle path,
Sank down like a wounded Greek.
'With the rich Albanian costume
Wet with many a ghastly stain,
Gazing on earth and sky as one
Who might not gaze again!
'He looked forward to the mountains,
Back on foes that never spare,
Then flung him from his saddle,
And place the stranger there.
''Allah! hu!' Through flashing sabres,
Through a stormy hail of lead,
The good Thessalian charger
Up the slopes of olives sped.
'Hot spurred the turbaned riders;
He almost felt their breath,
Where a mountain stream rolled darkly down
Between the hills and death.
'One brave and manful struggle,-
He gained the solid land,
And the cover of the mountains,
And the carbines of his band!'
'It was very great and noble,'
Said the moist-eyed listener then,
'But one brave deed makes no hero;
Tell me what he since hath been!'
'Still a brave and generous manhood,
Still and honor without stain,
In the prison of the Kaiser,
By the barricades of Seine.
'But dream not helm and harness
The sign of valor true;
Peace bath higher tests of manhood
Than battle ever knew.
'Wouldst know him now? Behold him,
The Cadmus of the blind,
Giving the dumb lip language,
The idiot clay a mind.
'Walking his round of duty
Serenely day by day,
With the strong man's hand of labor
And childhood's heart of play.
'True as the knights of story,
Sir Lancelot and his peers,
Brave in his calm endurance
As they in tilt of spears.
'As waves in stillest waters,
As stars in noonday skies,
All that wakes to noble action
In his noon of calmness lies.
'Wherever outraged Nature
Asks word or action brave,
Wherever struggles labor,
Wherever groans a slave,-
'Wherever rise the peoples,
Wherever sinks a throne,
The throbbing heart of Freedom finds
An answer in his own.
'Knight of a better era,
Without reproach or fear!
Said I not well that Bayards
And Sidneys still are here?
Mother, let us imagine we are travelling, and passing through a
strange and dangerous country.
You are riding in a palanquin and I am trotting by you on a
red horse.
It is evening and the sun goes down. The waste of Joradighi
lies wan and grey before us. The land is desolate and barren.
You are frightened and thinking-"I know not where we have come
to."
I say to you, "Mother, do not be afraid."
The meadow is prickly with spiky grass, and through it runs
a narrow broken path.
There are no cattle to be seen in the wide field; they have
gone to their village stalls.
It grows dark and dim on the land and sky, and we cannot tell
where we are going.
Suddenly you call me and ask me in a whisper, "What light is
that near the bank?"
Just then there bursts out a fearful yell, and figures come
running towards us.
You sit crouched in your palanquin and repeat the names of the
gods in prayer.
The bearers, shaking in terror, hide themselves in the thorny
bush.
I shout to you, "Don't be afraid, mother. I am here."
With long sticks in their hands and hair all wild about their
heads, they come nearer and nearer.
I shout, "Have a care, you villains! One step more and you are
dead men."
They give another terrible yell and rush forward.
You clutch my hand and say, "Dear boy, for heaven's sake, keep
away from them."
I say, "Mother, just you watch me."
Then I spur my horse for a wild gallop, and my sword and
buckler clash against each other.
The fight becomes so fearful, mother, that it would give you
a cold shudder could you see it from your palanquin.
Many of them fly, and a great number are cut to pieces.
I know you are thinking, sitting all by yourself, that your
boy must be dead by this time.
But I come to you all stained with blood, and say,"Mother, the
fight is over now."
You come out and kiss me, pressing me to your heart, and you
say to yourself,
"I don't know what I should do if I hadn't my boy to escort
me."
A thousand useless things happen day after day, and why
couldn't such a thing come true by chance?
It would be like a story in a book.
My brother would say, "Is it possible? I always thought he was
so delicate!"
Our village people would all say in amazement, "Was it not
lucky that the boy was with his mother?"
'Jack fell as he'd have wished,' the mother said,
And folded up the letter that she'd read.
'The Colonel writes so nicely.' Something broke
In the tired voice that quavered to a choke.
She half looked up. 'We mothers are so proud
Of our dead soldiers.' Then her face was bowed.
Quietly the Brother Officer went out.
He'd told the poor old dear some gallant lies
That she would nourish all her days, no doubt
For while he coughed and mumbled, her weak eyes
Had shone with gentle triumph, brimmed with joy,
Because he'd been so brave, her glorious boy.
He thought how 'Jack', cold-footed, useless swine,
Had panicked down the trench that night the mine
Went up at Wicked Corner; how he'd tried
To get sent home, and how, at last, he died,
Blown to small bits. And no one seemed to care
Except that lonely woman with white hair.
Suppose we all do look at things differently
The hero to you not a hero to me
Your hero renowned for his skills at football
Yet the hero to some not a hero to all
If on everything we did happen to agree
How utterly boring indeed we would be
Our different ways makes us more interesting as some like to say
No two look at life in exactly in the same way
You have your own hero and that suits me fine
But your sort of hero could never be mine
Of our different views on life I am all too aware
And so little in common we do have to share
We don't share common friends or we don't share common foes
Which makes us seem more interesting one would have to suppose.
The wind blew out from Bergen from the dawning to the day,
There was a wreck of trees and fall of towers a score of miles away,
And drifted like a livid leaf I go before its tide,
Spewed out of house and stable, beggared of flag and bride.
The heavens are bowed about my head, shouting like seraph wars,
With rains that might put out the sun and clean the sky of stars,
Rains like the fall of ruined seas from secret worlds above,
The roaring of the rains of God none but the lonely love.
Feast in my hall, O foemen, and eat and drink and drain,
You never loved the sun in heaven as I have loved the rain.
The chance of battle changes -- so may all battle be;
I stole my lady bride from them, they stole her back from me.
I rent her from her red-roofed hall, I rode and saw arise,
More lovely than the living flowers the hatred in her eyes.
She never loved me, never bent, never was less divine;
The sunset never loved me, the wind was never mine.
Was it all nothing that she stood imperial in duresse?
Silence itself made softer with the sweeping of her dress.
O you who drain the cup of life, O you who wear the crown,
You never loved a woman's smile as I have loved her frown.
The wind blew out from Bergen to the dawning of the day,
They ride and run with fifty spears to break and bar my way,
I shall not die alone, alone, but kin to all the powers,
As merry as the ancient sun and fighting like the flowers.
How white their steel, how bright their eyes! I love each laughing knave,
Cry high and bid him welcome to the banquet of the brave.
Yea, I will bless them as they bend and love them where they lie,
When on their skulls the sword I swing falls shattering from the sky.
The hour when death is like a light and blood is like a rose, --
You never loved your friends, my friends, as I shall love my foes.
Know you what earth shall lose to-night, what rich uncounted loans,
What heavy gold of tales untold you bury with my bones?
My loves in deep dim meadows, my ships that rode at ease,
Ruffling the purple plumage of strange and secret seas.
To see this fair earth as it is to me alone was given,
The blow that breaks my brow to-night shall break the dome of heaven.
The skies I saw, the trees I saw after no eyes shall see,
To-night I die the death of God; the stars shall die with me;
One sound shall sunder all the spears and break the trumpet's breath:
You never laughed in all your life as I shall laugh in death.
Unique friend imposible to find,
caring and loving for the ones who are,
The protector of broken hearts,
A true hero in my world.
Seems to be perfect for us,
but that's only what the eyes can see,
'cause my heart can see something else,
A vulnerable soul under it's shield.
My perfect hero has his sectrets,
Unknown for the ones who see with the eyes,
my hero is becoming weak with the time,
but he can't realize....
The mind inside my hero,
Keeps feelings hidden,
for the ones he must protect,
to trust, and not be afraid.
A red rose in between many white,
similar to the others, but never the same,
feeling lonely on the inside,
wanting to hide and not to face the truth.
An exquisite prey in the jungle,
afraid of the hungry predators,
keep trying not to make any noise,
just avoiding to be haunted.
I can see him with my heart,
and I see his fears and his pain,
I understand he is only being human,
I still love him the same,
and still he is my hero....
You've heard me, scornful, harsh, and discontented,
Mocking and loathing War: you've asked me why
Of my old, silly sweetness I've repented--
My ecstasies changed to an ugly cry.
You are aware that once I sought the Grail,
Riding in armour bright, serene and strong;
And it was told that through my infant wail
There rose immortal semblances of song.
But now I've said good-bye to Galahad,
And am no more the knight of dreams and show:
For lust and senseless hatred make me glad,
And my killed friends are with me where I go.
Wound for red wound I burn to smite their wrongs;
And there is absolution in my songs.
Where he lives none does help you when you are down
The one out of work in the poor side of town
A young man in his early twenties with life struggling to cope
Though of finding employment he is not without hope.
Disadvantaged by the suburb he lives in and his postal address
Such things potential employers do fail to impress
But of searching for a job start he never does cease to try
Of courage in adversity none of him can deny.
One cannot say of him he does not do his best
And he showed his true courage when put to the test
He saved a baby girl's life in a house fire
In the unlikely hero so much to admire.
To save a grateful parents child life he put his own life on the line
Yet an offer of an award for bravery he did decline
Of saving a young life he did not make a big thing
And his praises he does not wish others to sing.
In the factory he worked in his job he enjoyed
'Til when the company went into receivership he became unemployed
But to the victim mentality he is not inclined
And he will keep searching 'til a job he will find.
He sat at the bar, drinking his Jack
Talking  about the war, since he came back
It ruined his mind, and broke his spirit too
He had seen alot of death among his crew
He drank till he didn't have to think at all
He drank till he couldn't hear the bugal call
When not drinking, he was taking so many pills
Disabled now, his wife paying all the bills
His very soul was tortured all the time
From crawling in the jungle in the dirt and slime
Hearing the shots fired every where
He was shooting too, just a boy there
He lived the war over every night in his dreams
In his sleep he could still his buddies screams
The war took a young boy and ruined his life
But he was proud, he had served in all the strife
This good man died just a year ago
He fought for our freedom and we do owe
Our freedom takes the life of young men
They serve their country and most come home again
All their lives will never be the same
Some will return whole and some lame
I'm proud to be a citizen of the USA
Where we're strong and proud and will never sway!
He always wears his war medals on his coat of them he feels so proud
And he has a hearing problem the reason he talks so loud
He says I'm a World war hero of which some don't wish to know
Of a battle fought in Europe more than six decades ago.
I often see him walking in the park or shopping complex with his long term wife
Devoted to him even in old age they have lived a long life
When he started talking of his war years I could not bear with him long
Though he is the inspiration for the making of this song.
I do not doubt he means well or in his young years he was brave
But far too many of his comrades went to an early grave
To me war is antiquated and it never solves anything
Though only of war heroes old war balladeers do sing.
He thinks he fought for freedom who told to him the lie
For so called freedom young men go to war and for so called freedom young men die
Twenty six million people in refugee camps what sort of freedom have they
And Human rights abuses rampant in the World of today.
On Anzac Day as usual he will be at the front of the parade
And he will love the adulation when much of him is made
With his war medals upon his coat for everyone to see
He may well impress some people but not the cynical like me.
A paradoxical ode, after Shelley.
I.
My soul is an entangled knot,
Upon a liquid vortex wrought
By Intellect, in the Unseen residing,
And thine cloth like a convict sit,
With marlinspike untwisting it,
Only to find its knottiness abiding;
Since all the tools for its untying
In four-dimensioned space are lying
Wherein thy fancy intersperses
Long avenues of universes,
While Klein and Clifford fill the void
With one finite, unbounded homaloid,
And think the Infinite is now at last destroyed.
II.
But when thy Science lifts her pinions
In Speculation’s wild dominions,
We treasure every dictum thou emittest,
While down the stream of Evolution
We drift, expecting no solution
But that of the survival of the fittest.
Till, in the twilight of the gods,
When earth and sun are frozen clods,
When, all its energy degraded,
Matter to æther shall have faded;
We, that is, all the work we’ve done,
As waves in æther, shall for ever run
In ever-widening spheres through heavens beyond the sun.
III.
Great Principle of all we see,
Unending Continuity!
By thee are all our angles sweetly rounded,
By thee are our misfits adjusted,
And as I still in thee have trusted,
So trusting, let me never be confounded!
Oh never may direct Creation
Break in upon my contemplation;
Still may thy causal chain, ascending,
Appear unbroken and unending,
While Residents in the Unseen—
Æons and Emanations—intervene,
And from my shrinking soul the Unconditioned screen.
You and six others lived in this small place.
Yall went in hiding because of your race.
You tried to be quiet, except for one sound.
A robber heard it and spread it around.
So the Gestapo made thing go array.
One by one they took all you had away.
You lived on this Earth for sixteen short years.
No one ever saw your saddening tears.
Once a pretty girl with dreams to write books.
You went on writing, despite people's looks.
You saw life differently than others,
They tried to fly without feathers.
There is a guy who reminds me of you.
Surprise! His name is Winnie the Pooh!
I say this because he is very kind.
You and he once had the same type of mind.
I honestly wish that you were still here.
Both of us would talk all throughout the year.
Being wise way beyond your sixteen yeras,
Many things were shared, including your tears.
You are my hero, my savior, myf riend.
I wish we could talk 'till the very end.
I strongly believe that we will meet someday.
I won't lose hope-I'm living today.
Never did I ever think of the definition of a hero.
Is a hero someone who defends the innocent who can’t defend themselves?
Does a hero need's to be arcane? Is a hero someone who thinks of others first?
Is a hero someone who faces dangers in times of peril despite all the odds? Is a hero someone who goes that little extra mile against all odds to make the world a better place?
Are heroes seen as heroes because they are intellectual, strong, fast, braves’ danger or because they are arcane? No, a hero is someone who is hopeful in times when seen as all hope is gone, although hope may be frail it’s hard to kill.
A hero is someone who fights all kind of injustice but also who is merciful. A hero is someone who is compassionate to others needs and difficulties, someone who is loyal to fighting injustice and sincere in what they are doing but with wisdom.
Show me a person with the attributes of being merciful, compassionate, loyal, sincere and wise and I will not only show you a hero but a Legend.
You've watched my work in your millions
every year without fail, as
I'm on the screen so frequently;
and yet few know my face;
that's how I'd like it:
do your job, go watch the game...
there's some doubt whether I do this
just for love; or whether money
changes hands in some offshore account;
or indeed, whether I'm a conspiracy
involving the better-known;
the less known, the better, is what I say;
who wants the dread words 'product placement'
bandied around this hallowed turf..
but yes, you've guessed it:
I'm the guy you never see
who turns the labels on the Robinson's bottles
(once of barley-water fame, in the days
before 'probiotic liquid supplements')
to face the TV camera..
my service never faults.
You need not be
a combatant soldier
shedding blood
as dying patriot
written in history books
seen in war movies
full of medals
of valor and of vigor
you need not
be an elected politicians
with authority vested
in extending arms
livelihood program
for those who are in need
You need not be
a tycoon businessman
a publisher
a known philantrophies
in promoting foundation's interest
for the benefits of the few
You just need to be YOU
of what you are
of whoever you are
of wherever you are
and simply be a law abiding one
respect other rights
a God-fearing
a country-loving
as  hero for everyday life
Ten years ago he was a hero a parade for him in the Town
But now he is seen as a has been they built him up and dragged him down
Where are they now when he most needs them him they no longer wish to know
He now is one of the forgotten their hero of a decade ago.
When he kicked the winning goal in the final he done himself and the club proud
The band played for him in his Hometown and the cheering for him it was loud
Alcohol now is the only comfort of a man who was a sporting king
His glory days for him are over his praises they no longer sing.
Some of him say he once was a hero his brown hair is now turning gray
And though only in his mid thirties he has known a far better day
In his honour they had big parties to him their toasting glasses they did raise
But now they have another hero another one that they can praise.
Ten years ago he was a hero when he was in his glorious prime
The Town Councillors sung his praises and the poets by him inspired to rhyme
The goal he kicked for his Club in the final happened to be the winning score
But now he is Yesteryear's hero though he is only thirty four
The heroes of the masses they live for their renown
And the masses create their heroes and then drag their heroes down
And the masses are unpredictable they change from day to day
And some of their heroes like the Autumn flowers are quick to fade away.
Yet there are millions of unsung heroes and they live on every street
And every day a hero I feel privileged to meet
True heroes male and female yet by the masses unsung
The World is full of heroes of heroes old and young.
Some heroes of the masses are arrogant and proud
And their egos over-swollen from the adulation of the crowd
But give me the unsung heroes who go their own quiet way
Who out of the kindness of their hearts perform one good deed every day.
Many heroes of the masses are not heroes to me
Though every day I walk the street some true hero I do see
Your hero is chauffeur driven and drinks the most expensive wine
And you can have your hero but your hero isn't mine.
Stop me if...
The story is,
The Queen visited our local
Old Folks' Home (well, it's called The Senior Enclave now...)
and walking along the wheelchair line, drawn up
like some parking lot along the promenade
but without the view
stopped at one old dear who looked
as if she hadn't quite got the point of this unwelcome
change to routine, and said
(in case the old darling regretted later
she'd missed the great occasion)
'Do you know who I am? '
'No dear - but ask the nurse,
she'll tell you...'
LET others prate of Greece and Rome,
And towns where they may never be,
The muse should wander nearer home.
My country is enough for me;
Her wooded hills that watch the sea,
Her inland miles of springing corn,
At Macedon or Barrakee—
I love the land where I was born.
On Juliet smile the autumn stars
And windswept plains by Winchelsea,
In summer on their sandy bars
Her rivers loiter languidly.
Where singing waters fall and flee
The gullied ranges dip to Lorne
With musk and gum and myrtle tree—
I love the land where I was born.
The wild things in her tangles move
As blithe as fauns in Sicily,
Where Melbourne rises roof by roof
The tall ships serve her at the quay,
And hers the yoke of liberty
On stalwart shoulders lightly worn,
Where thought and speech and prayer are free—
I love the land where I was born.
Princes and lords of high degree,
Smile, and we fling you scorn for scorn,
In hope and faith and memory
I love the land where I was born.
I read within a poet's book
A word that starred the page:
"Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage!"
Yes, that is true; and something more
You'll find, where'er you roam,
That marble floors and gilded walls
Can never make a home.
But every house where Love abides,
And Friendship is a guest,
Is surely home, and home-sweet-home:
For there the heart can rest.
(To Robert Graves)
I
Here I'm sitting in the gloom
Of my quiet attic room.
France goes rolling all around,
Fledged with forest May has crowned.
And I puff my pipe, calm-hearted,
Thinking how the fighting started,
Wondering when we'll ever end it,
Back to hell with Kaiser sent it,
Gag the noise, pack up and go,
Clockwork soldiers in a row.
I've got better things to do
Than to waste my time on you.
II
Robert, when I drowse to-night,
Skirting lawns of sleep to chase
Shifting dreams in mazy light,
Somewhere then I'll see your face
Turning back to bid me follow
Where I wag my arms and hollo,
Over hedges hasting after
Crooked smile and baffling laughter,
Running tireless, floating, leaping,
Down your web-hung woods and valleys,
Where the glowworm stars are peeping,
Till I find you, quiet as stone
On a hill-top all alone,
Staring outward, gravely pondering
Jumbled leagues of hillock-wandering.
III
You and I have walked together
In the starving winter weather.
We've been glad because we knew
Time's too short and friends are few.
We've been sad because we missed
One whose yellow head was kissed
By the gods, who thought about him
Till they couldn't do without him.
Now he's here again; I've been
Soldier David dressed in green,
Standing in a wood that swings
To the madrigal he sings.
He's come back, all mirth and glory,
Like the prince in a fairy tory.
Winter called him far away;
Blossoms bring him home with May.
IV
Well, I know you'll swear it's true
That you found him decked in blue
Striding up through morning-land
With a cloud on either hand.
Out in Wales, you'll say, he marches
Arm-in-arm with aoks and larches;
Hides all night in hilly nooks,
Laughs at dawn in tumbling brooks.
Yet, it's certain, here he teaches
Outpost-schemes to groups of beeches.
And I'm sure, as here I stand,
That he shines through every land,
That he sings in every place
Where we're thinking of his face.
V
Robert, there's a war in France;
Everywhere men bang and blunder,
Sweat and swear and worship Chance,
Creep and blink through cannon thunder.
Rifles crack and bullets flick,
Sing and hum like hornet-swarms.
Bones are smashed and buried quick.
Yet, through stunning battle storms,
All the while I watch the spark
Lit to guide me; for I know
Dreams will triumph, though the dark
Scowls above me where I go.
You can hear me; you can mingle
Radiant folly with my jingle.
War's a joke for me and you
While we know such dreams are true!
Remembering a Valentine sent to me by a poet from India,1989
You meet the moment with your solace thought.
Your fingers sketch a gray house far away.
Its window lights are warming cool resolve.
I think and know that we are almost home.
They tell me that a red bird has no soul
And yet I choose it for my metaphor.
Its spirit skims above half-frozen roads.
One hand is clapping for the death
With beautiful precision how your words
Eliminate each snowflake from my mind.
Yes, I accept your red bird  valentine
Praising the strength that thought it over seas.
Caxtons are mechanical birds with many wings
and some are treasured for their markings --
they cause the eyes to melt
or the body to shriek without pain.
I have never seen one fly, but
sometimes they perch on the hand.
Mist is when the sky is tired of flight
and rests its soft machine on ground:
then the world is dim and bookish
like engravings under tissue paper.
Rain is when the earth is television.
It has the property of making colours darker.
Model T is a room with the lock inside --
a key is turned to free the world
for movement, so quick there is a film
to watch for anything missed.
But time is tied to the wrist
or kept in a box, ticking with impatience.
In homes, a haunted apparatus sleeps,
that snores when you pick it up.
If the ghost cries, they carry it
to their lips and soothe it to sleep
with sounds. And yet they wake it up
deliberately, by tickling with a finger.
Only the young are allowed to suffer
openly. Adults go to a punishment room
with water but nothing to eat.
They lock the door and suffer the noises
alone. No one is exempt
and everyone's pain has a different smell.
At night when all the colours die,
they hide in pairs
and read about themselves --
in colour, with their eyelids shut.
She's sweet as a honey on a bacon
fitted like icings on a cake;
So cloudy, bloomy, and easy
in her own world in calvary.
She seems confused of things can be
like a sunbeam hiding underneath a tree;
You would look at her in gloomy feather
never have gotten to fly on free!
She's sweet as a honey on a bacon
fitted like icings on a cake;
So intriguing, lighting, and melting
in her own world of flying.
She seems downed of things will be
like a skyhawk revving up a sea;
You would see her flirting the storm
never have gotten to land on free!
Oh sweet as it may my angel from home
The whole wide world is yours alone!
Have to carry it last deep in your heart
Your moment of happiness never go fast.
a soldier coming home
he gets off the bus and looks around
families are being reunited
and lovers are kissing
all are unfamiliar faces.
he grabs his bag
and goes to the nearest payphone.
soon a cab pulls up and takes
him to a motel.
he has no one to welcome him
and no place to call home.
as he lays his head down to sleep
a tear slides from his cheek to a pillow
he feels so alone.
he doesn’t realize
that a thousand miles away
there’s a girl crying.
wishing she had been there
to welcome him home.
Home from the war.
1-02-07
by shannon flanders
When I was dead, my spirit turned
To seek the much-frequented house:
I passed the door, and saw my friends
Feasting beneath green orange boughs;
From hand to hand they pushed the wine,
They sucked the pulp of plum and peach;
They sang, they jested, and they laughed,
For each was loved of each.
I listened to thier honest chat:
Said one: "To-morrow we shall be
Plod plod along the featureless sands,
And coasting miles and miles of sea."
Said one: "Before the turn of tide
We will achieve the eyrie-seat."
Said one: "To-morrow shall be like
To-day, but much more sweet."
"To-morrow," said they, strong with hope,
And dwelt upon the pleasant way:
"To-morrow," cried they, one and all,
While no one spoke of yesterday.
Their life stood full at blessed noon;
I, only I, had passed away:
"To-morrow and to-day," they cried;
I was of yesterday.
I shivered comfortless, but cast
No chill across the table-cloth;
I, all-forgotten, shivered, sad
To stay, and yet to part how loth:
I passed from the familiar room,
I who from love had passed away,
Like the remembrance of a guest
That tarrieth but a day.
It's all so familiar and clear,
My eye's accustomed to every turn;
I'm not mistaken- I'm at home;
The wallpaper flowers, the chains of books...
I don't disturb yesterday's ashes -
The fire here has long gone cold.
Like a snake surveying its molted skin,
I gaze upon what I was.
Though many hymns remain unsung
And many blessings unbestowed,
I sense the glint of a different world,
A chance for new perfection!
I am called to unknown mountain peaks
By the chorus of spring,
And these letters from a woman
Lie in a cold, lifeless pile!
Dewdrops shine like eyes in the sun,
As if everything were splashed with silver...
My staff awaits me at the door!
I'm coming! I'm coming alone!
Goe and count her better houres;
They more happie are than ours.
The day that gives her any blisse
Make it as long againe as tis:
The houre shee smiles in lett it bee
By thy art increas'd to three:
But if shee frowne on thee or mee
Know night is made by her not thee:
Bee swift in such an houre, and soon
Make it night though it bee noone:
Obey her tymes, who is the free
Fayre sun that governes thee and mee
821
Away from Home are some and I—
An Emigrant to be
In a Metropolis of Homes
Is easy, possibly—
The Habit of a Foreign Sky
We—difficult—acquire
As Children, who remain in Face
The more their Feet retire.
Bound for your distant home
you were leaving alien lands.
In an hour as sad as I’ve known
I wept over your hands.
My hands were numb and cold,
still trying to restrain
you, whom my hurt told
never to end this pain.
But you snatched your lips away
from our bitterest kiss.
You invoked another place
than the dismal exile of this.
You said, ‘When we meet again,
in the shadow of olive-trees,
we shall kiss, in a love without pain,
under cloudless infinities.’
But there, alas, where the sky
shines with blue radiance,
where olive-tree shadows lie
on the waters glittering dance,
your beauty, your suffering,
are lost in eternity.
But the sweet kiss of our meeting ......
I wait for it: you owe it me .......
The day that Danny went away
He didn't make a fuss.
It was the second day of May....
He left a note for us.
It said he'd join us later on....
He wanted better life.
God knows we tried before he left,
Despite some family strife.
But off he went, with nothing but
The clothing that he wore.
A friend who saw him headed north,
Reported nothing more.
Where did he go?  What could he do?
A fifteen-year-old boy....
A letter or a phone call would
Just fill our hearts with joy.
But we must sit and wonder as
We hope and pray for him,
While he is out there all alone
In answer to his whim.
This quiet plea is in our hearts
With every passing night:
'Come home to us now, Danny boy,
Let's try to make things right.'
God help and guide you, Danny boy,
And bring you home to stay.
Then we'll forget that day in May....
When you just walked away.
(Written on May 19,1972, in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico.)
'Tis The
SONG OF LITTLE MARY,
Standing at the bar-room door
While the shameful midnight revel
Rages wildly as before.
Father, dear father, come home with me now!
The clock in the steeple strikes one;
You said you were coming right home from the shop,
As soon as your day's work was done.
Our fire has gone out our house is all dark
And mother's been watching since tea, --
With poor brother Benny so sick in her arms,
And no one to help her but me. --
Come home! come home! come home! --
Please, father, dear father, come home. --
Hear the sweet voice of the child
Which the night winds repeat as they roam!
Oh who could resist this most plaintive of prayers?
"Please, father, dear father, come home."
Father, dear father, come home with me now!
The clock in the steeple strikes two;
The night has grown colder, and Benny is worse
But he has been calling for you.
Indeed he is worse Ma says he will die,
Perhaps before morning shall dawn; --
And this is the message she sent me to bring
"Come quickly, or he will be gone." --
Come home! come home! come home! --
Please, father, dear father, come home. --
Hear the sweet voice of the child
Which the night winds repeat as they roam!
Oh who could resist this most plaintive of prayers?
"Please, father, dear father, come home."
Father, dear father, come home with me now!
The clock in the steeple strikes three;
The house is so lonely the hours are so long
For poor weeping mother and me.
Yes, we are alone poor Benny is dead,
And gone with the angels of light; --
And these were the very last words that he said
"I want to kiss Papa good night." --
Come home! come home! come home! --
Please, father, dear father, come home. --
Hear the sweet voice of the child
Which the night winds repeat as they roam!
Oh who could resist this most plaintive of prayers?
"Please, father, dear father, come home."
When wintry winds are no more heard,
And joy's in every bosom,
When summer sings in every bird,
And shines in every blossom,
When happy twilight hours are long,
Come home, my love, and think no wrong!
When berries gleam above the stream
And half the fields are yellow,
Come back to me, my joyous dream,
The world hath not thy fellow!
And I will make thee Queen among
The Queens of summer and of song.
I see you there standing alone
So lonely, so broken
Hollow inside you search
Search for a guide
To take you to unknown places
To Comfort you, to hold you close
To take you home
Your face stays emotionless
Your eyes stay fixed to the wall
No sign of life
But yet you look so life-like
With your rosy cheeks
And your joyful smile
Come home, Come home with me
I’ll comfort you, I’ll hold you
So tightly, so lovingly
I’ll take you to unknown places
I’ll let you stay forever
We’d play games
We’d dance and sing
We’d share secrets
We’d be best friends
Still you sit there,
Alone and unhappy
Still with the same hollow smile
Still with eyes of no emotion
That’s when I realised
This figure was not my friend
Nor could it be
It couldn’t play games
Couldn’t dance nor sing
Couldn’t have secrets
And sadly
It couldn’t be my best friend
Because it was;
A thing of no life
A thing of pure hollowness
A thing that couldn’t live
Nor die..
I leave you alone
And go home
Wishing I had stayed
Wishing we could be friends
But we couldn’t
Because you weren’t real
You were just a plastic doll
Five minutes here, and they must steal two more!
shameful! Here have I been five mortal years
and not seen home nor one dear kindred face,
and these abominable slugs, this guard,
this driver, porters--what are they about?--
keep us here motionless, two minutes, three.--
Aha! at last!
Good! We shall check our minutes;
we're flying after them, like a mad wind
chasing the leaves it has tossed on in front.
Oh glorious wild speed, what giants' play!
and there are men who tell us poetry
is dead where railways come! Maybe 'tis true,
I'm a bad judge, I've had scant reading time
and little will to read ...... and certainly
I've not found railways in what verse I know:
but there's a whizz and whirr as trains go by,
a bullet-like indomitable rush
and then all's done, which makes me often think
one of those men who found out poetry,
and had to write the things just that they saw,
would have made some of their fine crashing lines
that stir one like the marches one knows best,
and the enemy knows best, with trains in them
as easily as chariots.
Anyhow
I've poetry and music too to-day
in the very clatter: it goes "Home, home, home."
And they'll think that sharp shriek a kinder sound
than sweetest singing, when it presently
pierces the quiet of the night and sends
its eager shrillness on for miles before
to say I'm no time distant. I can see
my mother's soft pink cheeks (like roses, pale
after a June week's blooming,) flush and wan,
and her lip quiver; I can see the girls,
restless between the hall door and the clock,
hear it and hush and lean expectant heads
to catch the rattle of the coming train;
my father, sitting pshawing by the fire
at all the fuss and waiting, half start up,
dropping his Times, forgetful just so long
that he is not impatient like the rest,
the tender foolish women, and, alert
to hide how he was tempted to fuss too,
reseat himself intent on politics;
and Hugh--I think Hugh must be there with them,
on leave out of his parish for a day,
a truant from the old women and the schools
to be at home with me for long enough
to say "God bless you" in--I can see Hugh,
narrow and straight in his skimp priestly coat,
pacing the room with slow and even steps,
and a most patient face, and in his eyes
that over patience we all know in them
when he is being extra good and calm.
So little change, they write me: all of them
with the same faces, scarce a day's mark there--
except our little Maude who was a child
and is a woman: little Maude grown tall:
the little Maude I left half prude half romp,
who, eager for her grown-up dignities,
tried to forego her mischiefs and would turn,
just in their midst, portentously demure
like a tired sleepy kitten, and to-day
wears all her womanhood inside her heart
and has none for her manners--some of it
for her sweet winsome face though; and a look
that's in her portrait brings my mother back,
though she's not like they tell me. I shall see;
yes I shall see! soon; almost now.
Dear home,
to think I am so near!
Ah, when I lay
in the hot thirst and fever of my wound,
and saw their faces pressing into mine,
changing and changing, never a one would stay
so long that I could see it like itself,
I scarcely hoped for this. And when I felt
that tiring weakness of my growing strong,
and was so helpless, and the babyish tears
would come without a thought to make them come,
I almost knew this day would never be:
but, oh my happy fortune, not to die,
not even to come home among them then,
with nothing done, a spoiled and worthless wreck
for them to weep at softly out of sight,
but to go stoutly to my post again,
and do my stroke of work as a man should,
and win them this.
You little dingy cross,
less precious than my sleeve-links, what a worth
lies in your worthlessness: there's not a man
but gladder lays you in his mother's hand,
or wife's, than he would bring her for his gift
the whole great jewels of an eastern king,
and not a woman but--
My mother, though--
sometimes she was not strong--have I been rash,
too thoughtless of her calm, not telling of it?
No, I'll not wear it on me, as I meant,
to take her first dear kisses in: we'll talk
before I show it--in a day or two--
perhaps to-night.
I know she'll prize it more
that a life saved went to the winning it.
And tenderhearted Ellen will forgive
my part she shudders at in the red deaths
of battle fields a little more for that--
How sad her letters were; I know she thinks
we learn a heathenish passion after blood,
and, as she said, "to throw our lives like dross
back in our Maker's face:" but bye and bye
I'll teach her how it is, and that we fight
for duty, not like either fiends or fools.
They say they are longing for my history,
told by the fire of evenings; all my deeds,
all my escapes; and I must clear their minds
of fifty puzzles of the journalists,
decide what's true, and make them understand
the battles and the marchings: but my deeds
have been to just be one among them all,
doing what we were bidden as we could,
and my escapes must have been like the rest--
one has no time to know them; just that once,
when I was dragging off the fallen boy,
I knew what death was nearest as it missed,
but I've no memory of more escapes ......
except by being wounded, as they know;
and what can I explain of battle plans
made in the councils, whether kept or not
I cannot tell? I only know my part
and theirs with whom I waited at our post
or dashed on at the word, I could not mark
the swaying of the squadrons, the recoils
and shifting ground and sudden strategies,
and had no duty to be watching them.
No, I shall make them better out in print,
and learn in our snug study what I saw
among the rush and smoke.
No, I come back
no better talker than I was before,
no readier and no deeper, not like Hugh,
and I must use my unaspiring wits
to say things as I see them, going straight;
just as a plain man's life does, tramping on
the way that lies before one, with no whys.
No whys; ah how that chance word takes me back
to pinafore-time--my father's well-known phrase
"No whying, boy, but do what you are bid."
And once my mother, when first Hugh began
to be so clever, and had found it out
and, pleased at it, perhaps a little pert,
was apt to hit on puzzles, answered him
"our nursery rule was good for afterwards,
spared headaches and spared heartaches, and, well kept,
made the best heroes and best Christians too."
How I can see Hugh looking down to say,
in an odd slow tone, "I will remember that."
And well he has remembered; never a man
went straighter into action than our Hugh;
he knows what side he's on and stands to it:
if I'd a head like his, and wished to change
soldiering for anything, I'd try to learn
a parish parson's work to do it like Hugh.
Will he read prayers to-night? I'd like to hear
my father at it, as it used to be
before we any of us went away--
the old times back again. Oh, all of us
will say our prayers to-night out of glad hearts.
Oh, thank God for the meeting we shall have!
Such joy among us! and the country side
all to be glad for us. Ah well, I fear
there's one will shrink and sadden at my sight
among the welcomes and the happiness,
remembering that her husband was my friend,
and dropped beside me. But I'll go alone--
or maybe with my mother--to her house
and let her have the pain more quietly,
before she sees me in our Sunday pew,
with all the old friends smiling through the prayers
and all but nodding, and a buzzing round
spoiling the parson's reading "Look," and "Look,"
"There's Master Harry come back from the war."
Oh, how my mother's eyes will turn to me,
half unawares, then fix upon her book
that none may see them growing large and moist;
and how my father will look stern and frown,
hiding the treacherous twinkles with the shade
of knitted brows, lest any watching him
should think him moved to have his son by him,
and proud like foolish fathers; but the girls
will be all smiles and flutter, and look round
elate as if no other girls before
had had a soldier brother. And old Will,
out of his corner by the vestry door,
will peer and blink and suck his grins in tight,
trying to mind the sermon and not think
what sport he has for me in the preserves.
Plenty of birds this year, my father writes;
we'll see next week, and--There's the long shrill yell!
Home! all but home!
Oh! there, between the trees,
that light, our house--they're waiting for me there.
The railings were old and rusty,
The door paint was faded and chipped,
The poor old house had seen better days,
The roof, made of slate, had now dipped.
The windows showed broken hinges,
The path to the door, overgrown,
This was the place where I was born,
The only real home I had known.
The 'rambler' that clung to the front porch,
Was a rose in the deepest red,
Now looking forlorn and so straggly,
I thought that maybe it was dead.
But tiny buds were shooting,
From the root beside the door,
And I was sure that, with a little care,
The house would come alive once more.
I watched as the 'SOLD' sign was erected,
And I felt I had reached home at last,
I knew that I would be happy here,
After what had been in my past.
I washed, swept, scrubbed and polished,
Until everything looked 'brand new',
Then my heart sped back to my childhood days,
My return home, was well overdue.
©   Ernestine Northover
Down home to-night the moonshine falls
Across a hill with daisies pied,
The pear tree by the garden gate
Beckons with white arms like a bride.
A savor as of trampled fern
Along the whispering meadow stirs,
And, beacon of immortal love,
A light is shining through the firs.
To my old gable window creeps
The night wind with a sigh and song,
And, weaving ancient sorceries,
Thereto the gleeful moonbeams throng
Beside the open kitchen door
My mother stands all lovingly,
And o'er the pathways of the dark
She sends a yearning thought to me.
It seeks and finds my answering heart
Which shall no more be peace-possessed
Until I reach her empty arms
And lay my head upon her breast.
Far from my heavenly home,
Far from my Father’s breast,
Fainting I cry, blest Spirit, come
And speed me to my rest.
My spirit homeward turns
And fain would thither flee;
My heart, O Zion, droops and yearns,
When I remember thee.
To thee, to thee I press,
A dark and toilsome road;
When shall I pass the wilderness,
And reach the saint’s abode?
God of my life, be near;
On Thee my hopes I cast:
O guide me through the desert here,
And bring me home at last.
God looked around his garden
And found an empty space;
He then looked down upon this earth
And saw your tired face.
He put His arms around you
And lifted you to rest;
God's garden must be beautiful,
He only takes the best.
He knew you were in pain,
He knew you might never
Get well upon this earth again.
He saw the road was getting rough
And the hills were hard to climb,
so He closed your weary eyelids
and whispered 'Peace be thine.'
It broke our hearts to lose you,
But you never went alone,
For part of us went with you
The day God called you home
I'm goin' 'ome to Blighty -- ain't I glad to 'ave the chance!
I'm loaded up wiv fightin', and I've 'ad my fill o' France;
I'm feelin' so excited-like, I want to sing and dance,
For I'm goin' 'ome to Blighty in the mawnin'.
I'm goin' 'ome to Blighty: can you wonder as I'm gay?
I've got a wound I wouldn't sell for 'alf a year o' pay;
A harm that's mashed to jelly in the nicest sort o' way,
For it takes me 'ome to Blighty in the mawnin'.
'Ow everlastin' keen I was on gettin' to the front!
I'd ginger for a dozen, and I 'elped to bear the brunt;
But Cheese and Crust! I'm crazy, now I've done me little stunt,
To sniff the air of Blighty in the mawnin'.
I've looked upon the wine that's white, and on the wine that's red;
I've looked on cider flowin', till it fairly turned me 'ead;
But oh, the finest scoff will be, when all is done and said,
A pint o' Bass in Blighty in the mawnin'.
I'm goin' back to Blighty, which I left to strafe the 'Un;
I've fought in bloody battles, and I've 'ad a 'eap of fun;
But now me flipper's busted, and I think me dooty's done,
And I'll kiss me gel in Blighty in the mawnin'.
Oh, there be furrin' lands to see, and some of 'em be fine;
And there be furrin' gels to kiss, and scented furrin' wine;
But there's no land like England, and no other gel like mine:
Thank Gawd for dear old Blighty in the mawnin'.
Pushed and pulled ‘til torn apart
Unprepared for a broken heart
Never feel the pain that’s hidden
To share my emotions is forbidden.
Keep it quiet keep it safe,
Never hear the voice that speaks.
In a hole dig it deep
personality
Has gone six feet.
Revenge is dreamt when I sleep
death is near when I wake
In hell I’ll be for I will sin
being punished for my deed
I will see that its wrong
Suicide is my way home.
Paw marks near one burrow show Graydigger
at home, I bend low, from down there swivel
my head, grasstop level--the world
goes on forever, the mountains a bigger
burrow, their snow like last winter. From a room
inside the world even the strongest wind
has a soft sound: a new house will hide
in the grass; footsteps are only the summer people.
The real estate agent is saying, "Utilities . . .
easy payments, a view." I see
my prints in the dirt. Out there
in the wind we talk about credit, security--
there on the bank by Graydigger's home.
He'd walked a thousand miles,
shot in the back near Petersburg,
and brought the Russian bullet home.
His path led by the doctor's home
he would not stop as finer things
awaited at her castle, near the church.
With borrowed strength fell in the door
and 'home at last' rolled of his lips,
frostbitten ears took in the sound
and all the meaning of it, before he did,
another warrior had arrived before
and Welcome was reserved for only one.
He did not worry that the bullet caused,
in just three days a poisoned blood
and gangrenous disintegration.
The stash of hidden bottles had remained,
unfound and unappreciated until today.
Surrounded by a dozen empty ones
they found him with the happy smile
he had reserved and carried through
the steppes on his journey, for her.
The preacher said that stress of war
and what the soldiers saw out in
the battlefield, was often way too much.
But he remained quite still and kept his smile.
Gone now the baby's nurse,
a lioness who ruled the roost
and made the Mother cry.
She used to tie
gobbets of porkrind in bowknots of gauze-
three months they hung like soggy toast
on our eight foot magnolia tree,
and helped the English sparrows
weather a Boston winter.
Three months, three months!
Is Richard now himself again?
Dimpled with exaltation,
my daughter holds her levee in the tub.
Our noses rub,
each of us pats a stringy lock of hair-
they tell me nothing's gone.
Though I am forty-one,
not forty now, the time I put away
was child's play. After thirteen weeks
my child still dabs her cheeks
to start me shaving. When
we dress her in her sky-blue corduroy,
she changes to a boy,
and floats my shaving brush
and washcloth in the flush....
Dearest I cannot loiter here
in lather like a polar bear.
Recuperating, I neither spin nor toil.
Three stories down below,
a choreman tends our coffin's length of soil,
and seven horizontal tulips blow.
Just twelve months ago,
these flowers were pedigreed
imported Dutchmen; now no one need
distinguish them from weed.
Bushed by the late spring snow,
they cannot meet
another year's snowballing enervation.
I keep no rank nor station.
Cured, I am frizzled, stale and small.
Just Home and Love! the words are small
Four little letters unto each;
And yet you will not find in all
The wide and gracious range of speech
Two more so tenderly complete:
When angels talk in Heaven above,
I'm sure they have no words more sweet
Than Home and Love.
Just Home and Love! it's hard to guess
Which of the two were best to gain;
Home without Love is bitterness;
Love without Home is often pain.
No! each alone will seldom do;
Somehow they travel hand and glove:
If you win one you must have two,
Both Home and Love.
And if you've both, well then I'm sure
You ought to sing the whole day long;
It doesn't matter if you're poor
With these to make divine your song.
And so I praisefully repeat,
When angels talk in Heaven above,
There are no words more simply sweet
Than Home and Love.
I walk down the small path
bordered either side by bluebells.
As I walk down the path
which I have done hundreds of times before.
There is a stirring in the trees,
which prompts my memories,
of faces that have come and gone
over the passing years.
Also comes back the laughter
that never seems to subside
and all the jokes
we’ve played on one another.
I smiled as I stopped for a moment
to look around at everything there.
It seems like only yesterday
that I came along here,
but in reality, the years have flown by.
Some faces I remember
will never be coming back to visit,
while the others I might see someday.
Even when the sad day comes
when I can’t come anymore.
I will leave with many photographs
in my memory store.
A few more steps I take
and the town comes into view
along with friendly faces
on the boardwalks there.
There are a few whose names I forget,
but the faces I know so well
in this little town
I call my home away from home.
15 February 2008
He saw her from the bottom of the stairs
Before she saw him. She was starting down,
Looking back over her shoulder at some fear.
She took a doubtful step and then undid it
To raise herself and look again. He spoke
Advancing toward her: "What is it you see
From up there always? -- for I want to know."
She turned and sank upon her skirts at that,
And her face changed from terrified to dull.
He said to gain time: "What is it you see?"
Mounting until she cowered under him.
"I will find out now -- you must tell me, dear."
She, in her place, refused him any help,
With the least stiffening of her neck and silence.
She let him look, sure that he wouldn't see,
Blind creature; and a while he didn't see.
But at last he murmured, "Oh" and again, "Oh."
"What is it -- what?" she said.
"Just that I see."
"You don't," she challenged. "Tell me what it is."
"The wonder is I didn't see at once.
I never noticed it from here before.
I must be wonted to it -- that's the reason.
The little graveyard where my people are!
So small the window frames the whole of it.
Not so much larger than a bedroom, is it?
There are three stones of slate and one of marble,
Broad-shouldered little slabs there in the sunlight
On the sidehill. We haven't to mind those.
But I understand: it is not the stones,
But the child's mound ----"
"Don't, don't, don't,
don't," she cried.
She withdrew, shrinking from beneath his arm
That rested on the banister, and slid downstairs;
And turned on him with such a daunting look,
He said twice over before he knew himself:
"Can't a man speak of his own child he's lost?"
"Not you! -- Oh, where's my hat? Oh, I don't need it!
I must get out of here. I must get air.--
I don't know rightly whether any man can."
"Amy! Don't go to someone else this time.
Listen to me. I won't come down the stairs."
He sat and fixed his chin between his fists.
"There's something I should like to ask you, dear."
"You don't know how to ask it."
"Help me, then."
Her fingers moved the latch for all reply.
"My words are nearly always an offense.
I don't know how to speak of anything
So as to please you. But I might be taught,
I should suppose. I can't say I see how.
A man must partly give up being a man
With womenfolk. We could have some arrangement
By which I'd bind myself to keep hands off
Anything special you're a-mind to name.
Though I don't like such things 'twixt those that love.
Two that don't love can't live together without them.
But two that do can't live together with them."
She moved the latch a little. "Don't -- don't go.
Don't carry it to someone else this time.
Tell me about it if it's something human.
Let me into your grief. I'm not so much
Unlike other folks as your standing there
Apart would make me out. Give me my chance.
I do think, though, you overdo it a little.
What was it brought you up to think it the thing
To take your mother-loss of a first child
So inconsolably -- in the face of love.
You'd think his memory might be satisfied ----"
"There you go sneering now!"
"I'm not, I'm not!
You make me angry. I'll come down to you.
God, what a woman! And it's come to this,
A man can't speak of his own child that's dead."
"You can't because you don't know how to speak.
If you had any feelings, you that dug
With your own hand -- how could you? -- his little grave;
I saw you from that very window there,
Making the gravel leap and leap in air,
Leap up, like that, like that, and land so lightly
And roll back down the mound beside the hole.
I thought, Who is that man? I didn't know you.
And I crept down the stairs and up the stairs
To look again, and still your spade kept lifting.
Then you came in. I heard your rumbling voice
Out in the kitchen, and I don't know why,
But I went near to see with my own eyes.
You could sit there with the stains on your shoes
Of the fresh earth from your own baby's grave
And talk about your everyday concerns.
You had stood the spade up against the wall
Outside there in the entry, for I saw it."
"I shall laugh the worst laugh I ever laughed.
I'm cursed. God, if I don't believe I'm cursed."
"I can repeat the very words you were saying:
'Three foggy mornings and one rainy day
Will rot the best birch fence a man can build.'
Think of it, talk like that at such a time!
What had how long it takes a birch to rot
To do with what was in the darkened parlour?
You couldn't care! The nearest friends can go
With anyone to death, comes so far short
They might as well not try to go at all.
No, from the time when one is sick to death,
One is alone, and he dies more alone.
Friends make pretense of following to the grave,
But before one is in it, their minds are turned
And making the best of their way back to life
And living people, and things they understand.
But the world's evil. I won't have grief so
If I can change it. Oh, I won't, I won't!"
"There, you have said it all and you feel better.
You won't go now. You're crying. Close the door.
The heart's gone out of it: why keep it up?
Amyl There's someone coming down the road!"
"You -- oh, you think the talk is all. I must go --
Somewhere out of this house. How can I make you ----"
"If -- you -- do!" She was opening the door wider.
"Where do you mean to go? First tell me that.
I'll follow and bring you back by force. I will! --"
Far-fetched with tales of other worlds and ways,
My skin well-oiled with wines of the Levant,
I set my face into a filial smile
To greet the pale, domestic kiss of Kent.
But shall I never learn? That gawky girl,
Recalled so primly in my foreign thoughts,
Becomes again the green-haired queen of love
Whose wanton form dilates as it delights.
Her rolling tidal landscape floods the eye
And drowns Chianti in a dusky stream;
he flower-flecked grasses swim with simple horses,
The hedges choke with roses fat as cream.
So do I breathe the hayblown airs of home,
And watch the sea-green elms drip birds and shadows,
And as the twilight nets the plunging sun
My heart's keel slides to rest among the meadows.
SHE turn’d the fair page with her fairer hand—
More fair and frail than it was wont to be—
O’er each remember’d thing he lov’d to see
She linger’d, and as with a fairy’s wand
Enchanted it to order. Oft she fann’d
New motes into the sun; and as a bee
Sings thro’ a brake of bells, so murmur’d she,
And so her patient love did understand
The reliquary room. Upon the sill
She fed his favorite bird. “Ah, Robin, sing!
He loves thee.” Then she touches a sweet string
Of soft recall, and towards the Eastern hill
Smiles all her soul—for him who cannot hear
The raven croaking at his carrion ear.
COME, my little children, here are songs for you;
Some are short and some are long, and all, all are new.
You must learn to sing them very small and clear,
Very true to time and tune and pleasing to the ear.
Mark the note that rises, mark the notes that fall,
Mark the time when broken, and the swing of it all.
So when night is come, and you have gone to bed,
All the songs you love to sing shall echo in your head.
Home permanent home
You may welcome
If you have decent home
Greet each other
And gracefully offer
It takes time
To build in life time
Sometimes it may not be realized
And you will see it as dazed
But life moves on
Despite many things in life are got or won
The home remains as distant possibility
In your prayers you always bow down to almighty
The birds to build nest
And put their efforts best
They leave it the moment their job is over
But we miss it and need some shelter
Love demands one permanent refuge
And it is not desire huge
It gets reality
And makes smooth real journey
How brightly glistening in the sun
The woodland ivy plays!
While yonder beeches from their barks
Reflect his silver rays.
That sun surveys a lovely scene
From softly smiling skies;
And wildly through unnumbered trees
The wind of winter sighs:
Now loud, it thunders o'er my head,
And now in distance dies.
But give me back my barren hills
Where colder breezes rise;
Where scarce the scattered, stunted trees
Can yield an answering swell,
But where a wilderness of heath
Returns the sound as well.
For yonder garden, fair and wide,
With groves of evergreen,
Long winding walks, and borders trim,
And velvet lawns between;
Restore to me that little spot,
With grey walls compassed round,
Where knotted grass neglected lies,
And weeds usurp the ground.
Though all around this mansion high
Invites the foot to roam,
And though its halls are fair within --
Oh, give me back my HOME!
Acton
Years I had been from home,
And now, before the door
I dared not open, lest a face
I never saw before
Stare vacant into mine
And ask my business there.
My business, - just a life I left,
Was such still dwelling there?
I fumbled at my nerve,
I scanned the windows near;
The silence like an ocean rolled,
And broke against my ear.
I laughed a wooden laugh
That I could fear a door,
Who danger and the dead had faced,
But never quaked before.
I fitted to the latch
My hand, with trembling care,
Lest back the awful door should spring,
And leave me standing there.
I moved my fingers off
As cautiously as glass,
And held my ears, and like a thief
Fled gasping from the house.
Home is pictures of memories on the wall.
Home is sleeping in my own bed.
Home is waking up to the smell of mom's cooking.
Home is sharing the holidays with family.
Home is playing the piano in the living room.
Home is a warm place to be.
Home is sweet.
Home is the place for me.
Home is filled with love.
Home is blessed from heaven above.
Home is where my heart is.
Home has a strong foundation.
It can weather any storm.
Home is where I belong.
When I go away,
I know I can come back to stay.
Home is a beautiful place.
"Where shall we dwell?" say you.
Wandering winds reply:
"In a temple with roof of blue
-- Under the splendid sky."
Never a nobler home
We'll find though an age we try
Than is arched by the azure dome
Of the all-enfolding sky.
Here we are wed, and here
We live under God's own eye.
"Where shall we dwell," my dear?
Under the splendid sky.
I came back late and tired last night
Into my little room,
To the long chair and the firelight
And comfortable gloom.
But as I entered softly in
I saw a woman there,
The line of neck and cheek and chin,
The darkness of her hair,
The form of one I did not know
Sitting in my chair.
I stood a moment fierce and still,
Watching her neck and hair.
I made a step to her; and saw
That there was no one there.
It was some trick of the firelight
That made me see her there.
It was a chance of shade and light
And the cushion in the chair.
Oh, all you happy over the earth,
That night, how could I sleep?
I lay and watched the lonely gloom;
And watched the moonlight creep
From wall to basin, round the room,
All night I could not sleep.
Dream with pain from you
Awake with pain from you
I'm afraid to be alone
I'm afraid to stay at home
Gather myself to fall again
I'm better off dead
Then breathing until the end
On second thought, maybe instead
This is me, I'm so pathetic
Let the world hear me cry
Let them know I'm an addict
Let them know I won't die
I'll crawl through that familiar door
I'm so sick of this place
I've seen this all before
It's uglier then my face
Dream with pain from you
Awake with pain from you
I'm afraid to be alone
I'm afraid to stay at home.
So long had I travelled the lonely road,
Though, now and again, a wayfairing friend
Walked shoulder to shoulder, and lightened the load,
I often would think to myself as I strode,
No comrade will journey with you to the end.
And it seemed to me, as the days went past,
And I gossiped with cronies, or brooded alone,
By wayside fires, that my fortune was cast
To sojourn by other men's hearths to the last,
And never to come to my own hearthstone.
The lonely road no longer I roam.
We met, and were one in the heart's desire.
Together we came, through the wintry gloam,
To the little old house by the cross-ways, home;
And crossed the threshold, and kindled the fire.
A home above the year's seasons
home of children animals and apples
a square of empty space
under an absent star
home was the telescope of childhood
the skin of emotion
a sister's cheek
branch of a tree
the cheek was extinguished by flame
the branch crossed out by a shell
over the powdery ash of the nest
a song of homeless infantry
home is the die of emotion
home is the cube of childhood
the wing of a burned sister
leaf of a dead tree
My home sweet home!
You are better than Venice,
You are better than Rome,
Your streets with crimes,
Explosions and killings,
You have lovely rimes.
I know the dwellers,
I can talk anyone,
Don't find the strangers.
Whereat I can walk,
In the powerless nights,
And complete dark.
Where dogs on way,
Don't bark at me,
Fearless of bites and betray.
I know your demerits,
I am used to with it,
And love your merits.
Whereat I can drive my old lovely bike,
And can go to a place of my choice and like.
Everything is familiar and nothing is new,
May be it a fog or it may be dew.
They all know me and I know them all,
At home, I know what to do if I fall.
Nice may be Venice and lovely may be Rome,
I want to go back to my home, sweet home.
(This poem is written at Riyadh, Saudi Arabia)
Sharers of a common country,
They had met in deadly strife;
Men who should have been as brothers
Madly sought each other's life.
In the silence of the even,
When the cannon's lips were dumb,
Thoughts of home and all its loved ones
To the soldier's heart would come.
On the margin of a river,
'Mid the evening's dews and damps,
Could be heard the sounds of music
Rising from two hostile camps.
One was singing of its section
Down in Dixie, Dixie's land,
And the other of the banner
Waved so long from strand to strand.
In the land where Dixie's ensign
Floated o'er the hopeful slave,
Rose the song that freedom's banner,
Starry-lighted, long might wave.
From the fields of strife and carnage,
Gentle thoughts began to roam,
And a tender strain of music
Rose with words of "Home, Sweet Home."
Then the hearts of strong men melted,
For amid our grief and sin
Still remains that "touch of nature,"
Telling us we all are kin.
In one grand but gentle chorus,
Floating to the starry dome,
Came the words that brought them nearer,
Words that told of "Home, Sweet Home."
For awhile, all strife forgotten,
They were only brothers then,
Joining in the sweet old chorus,
Not as soldiers, but as men.
Men whose hearts would flow together,
Though apart their feet might roam,
Found a tie they could not sever,
In the mem'ry of each home.
Never may the steps of carnage
Shake our land from shore to shore,
But may mother, home and Heaven,
Be our watchwords evermore.
Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam,
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home;
A charm from the sky seems to hallow us there,
Which, seek through the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
There's no place like home, oh, there's no place like home!
An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain;
Oh, give me my lowly thatched cottage again!
The birds singing gayly, that come at my call --
Give me them -- and the peace of mind, dearer than all!
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
There's no place like home, oh, there's no place like home!
I gaze on the moon as I tread the drear wild,
And feel that my mother now thinks of her child,
As she looks on that moon from our own cottage door
Thro' the woodbine, whose fragrance shall cheer me no more.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
There's no place like home, oh, there's no place like home!
How sweet 'tis to sit 'neath a fond father's smile,
And the caress of a mother to soothe and beguile!
Let others delight mid new pleasures to roam,
But give me, oh, give me, the pleasures of home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
There's no place like home, oh, there's no place like home!
To thee I'll return, overburdened with care;
The heart's dearest solace will smile on me there;
No more from that cottage again will I roam;
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet, home!
There's no place like home, oh, there's no place like home!
Better than higher hotel
Home sweet home is better to be there
More than better areas for fun
Home sweet home is better for nap
More than a vacation to great states
Home sweet home is better space
More than a journey which costs a lot
Home sweet home is delicious to stay on
After heaven before all
Home sweet home is best of all
Home sweet home!
A sea of defunct toys
Canvas of walls smeared
with colors of joy;
patterns of art;
Designs, that god only can understand
Love filled books, can't confine
themselves to shelves, pop
out every now and then,
Rest on pillow.
Clothes say - hey, in that
ugly closet who wants to stay!
slippers not far behind
stay on standby all the time
little princess may need them
anytime.
Love finds itself
sprinkled everywhere
in wet hands on the wall,
in larger than life footprints
on invisible floor.
chocolate stained sofa too
smiles at you.
The pen runs out of ink
every time you need it.
Blank pages of my diary
are history too....
Coins from my wallet, attached
by the piggy bank, that has
mortgaged the doll's house.
Happily the barbie pays back
Installment by installment
Love, that has gone into
making her home up.
Out in the balcony
arm chairs sit alone through
the day, waiting for the next
morning tea; when the lazy love
shall float around them, amidst the
rain sprinkles.
sweet nothings
formless;
yet form foundations.
Dusty roads greeted me
With a smile.
Welcoming me back,
I'm home,
Home sweet home.
I slowly drove past
Herds of cows and goats feeding.
Ha! Ha!
I'm home,
Home sweet home.
I see children playing,
Runing up and down,
Singing their lungs out.
I'm home,
Home sweet home.
I meet elders ryding
Their twenty-something old bicycles.
Waving at me as i pass by,
Smiling that honest smile.
I'm home,
Home sweet home.
I see women with their babys
0n their backs, coming from maize plantations.
Even though its boilin g hot,
They still have that smile,
That smile that can melt ice at antartica.
It reminds me.....
I am home.
I see the black eagle
Soaring high up in the sky.....
I see those majestic mountains,
That have been my dear friend growing up,
That swallowed livestock and humans.
They are covered by a beautiful
Green blanket.....
Its beautiful.....
I am home.
Red and white butterflies
Are everywhere, hugging and
Kissing every flower they see.
I'm home,
Home sweet home.
I am home.....
Where nights are quiet and peaceful.
Where days are long and joyful.
Where respect is the order of the day.
Mmm! i smile a genuine smie,
Because here, there are no fake smiles.
I can feel that cool breeze,
That tar roads, gigantic buildings
And massive firms swallow in the city.
I am home.....
Here, i am a father and uncle
To every child.
It takes the whole village
To raise a child.Right?
I am a brother, a cousin and a son.
I am home.....
Where i can wake up in
The morning and smile
With the rising sun, without
Hearing no police siren
As they chase down criminals.
I am home.....
Where i can go up the
Mountain and just look
At the sinking sun.
When its pinkish, goldish
And redish reflections makes
Wonders on the sky.
My heart bit with these
Majestic mountains.
I am home.....
Home sweet home!
Home they brought her warrior dead:
She nor swooned, nor uttered cry:
All her maidens, watching, said,
‘She must weep or she will die.’
Then they praised him, soft and low,
Called him worthy to be loved,
Truest friend and noblest foe;
Yet she neither spoke nor moved.
Stole a maiden from her place,
Lightly to the warrior stepped,
Took the face-cloth from the face;
Yet she neither moved nor wept.
Rose a nurse of ninety years,
Set his child upon her knee—
Like summer tempest came her tears—
‘Sweet my child, I live for thee.’
Oh, to be in England
Now that April's there,
And whoever wakes in England
Sees, some morning, unaware,
That the lowest boughs and the brushwood sheaf
Round the elm-tree bole are in tiny leaf,
While the chaffinch sings on the orchard bough
In England—now!
And after April, when May follows,
And the whitethroat builds, and all the swallows!
Hark, where my blossomed pear-tree in the hedge
Leans to the field and scatters on the clover
Blossoms and dewdrops—at the bent spray's edge—
That's the wise thrush; he sings each song twice over,
Lest you should think he never could recapture
The first fine careless rapture!
And though the fields look rough with hoary dew,
All will be gay when noontide wakes anew
The buttercups, the little children's dower
—Far brighter than this gaudy melon-flower!
Nobly, nobly Cape Saint Vincent to the North-west died away;
Sunset ran, one glorious blood-red, reeking into Cadiz Bay;
Bluish 'mid the burning water, full in face Trafalgar lay;
In the dimmest North-east distance dawned Gibraltar grand and grey;
"Here and here did England help me: how can I help England?" -say,
Whoso turns as I, this evening, turn to God to praise and pray,
While Jove's planet rises yonder, silent over Africa.
Oh something just now must be happening there!
That suddenly and quiveringly here,
Amid the city's noises, I must think
Of mangoes leaning o'er the river's brink,
And dexterous Davie climbing high above,
The gold fruits ebon-speckled to remove,
And toss them quickly in the tangled mass
Of wis-wis twisted round the guinea grass;
And Cyril coming through the bramble-track
A prize bunch of bananas on his back;
And Georgie--none could ever dive like him--
Throwing his scanty clothes off for a swim;
And schoolboys, from Bridge-tunnel going home,
Watching the waters downward dash and foam.
This is no daytime dream, there's something in it,
Oh something's happening there this very minute!
Varus drags me into his affairs
out of the Forum, where I’m seen idling:
to a little whore I immediately saw,
not very inelegant, not unattractive,
who, when we came there, met us
with varied chatter, including, how might
Bithynia stand now, what’s it like, and where
might the benefit have been to me in cash.
I told her what’s true, nothing at all,
while neither the praetors nor their aides,
return any the richer, especially since
our Praetor, Memmius, the bugger,
cared not a jot for his followers.
‘But surely,’ they said, you could have bought
slaves they say are made for the litter there.’
I, so the girl might take me to be wealthy,
said ‘no, for me things weren’t so bad,
that coming across one bad province,
I couldn’t buy eight good men.’
But I’d no one, neither here nor there,
who might even raise to his shoulder
the shattered foot of an old couch.
At this she, like the shameless thing she was, said
‘I beg you, my dear Catullus, for the loan of them,
just for a while: I’d like to be carried
to Serap’s temple.’ ‘Wait’ I said to the girl,
‘what I just said was mine, isn’t actually in
my possession: my friend Cinna, that’s Gaius,
purchased the thing for himself.
Whether they’re his or mine, what difference to me?
I use them just as well as if I’d bought them myself.
But you are quite tasteless, and annoying,
you with whom no inexactness is allowed.’
1     W'en I was young boy on de farm, dat 's twenty year ago
2     I have wan frien' he 's leev near me, call Jean Bateese Trudeau
3     An offen w'en we are alone, we lak for spik about
4     De tam w'en we was come beeg man, wit' moustache on our mout'.
5     Bateese is get it on hees head, he 's too moche educate
6     For mak' de habitant farmerre--he better go on State--
7     An' so wan summer evening we 're drivin' home de cow
8     He 's tole me all de whole beez-nesse--jus' lak you hear me now.
9     'W'at 's use mak' foolish on de farm? dere 's no good chances lef'
10   An' all de tam you be poor man--you know dat 's true you'se'f;
11   We never get no fun at all--don't never go on spree
12   Onless we pass on 'noder place, an' mak' it some monee.
13   'I go on Les Etats Unis, I go dere right away
14   An' den mebbe on ten-twelve year, I be riche man some day,
15   An' w'en I mak' de large fortune, I come back I s'pose
16   Wit' Yankee famme from off de State, an' monee on my clothes.
17   'I tole you somet'ing else also--mon cher Napoleon
18   I get de grande majorité, for go on parliament
19   Den buil' fine house on borde l'eau--near w'ere de church is stand
20   More finer dan de Presbytere, w'en I am come riche man!'
21   I say 'For w'at you spik lak dat? you must be gone crazee
22   Dere 's plaintee feller on de State, more smarter dan you be,
23   Beside she 's not so healtee place, an' if you mak' l'argent,
24   You spen' it jus' lak Yankee man, an' not lak habitant.
25   'For me Bateese! I tole you dis: I 'm very satisfy--
26   De bes' man don't leev too long tam, some day Ba Gosh! he die--
27   An' s'pose you got good trotter horse, an' nice famme Canadienne
28   Wit' plaintee on de house for eat--W'at more you want ma frien'?'
29   But Bateese have it all mak' up, I can't stop him at all
30   He 's buy de seconde classe tiquette, for go on Central Fall--
31   An' wit' two-t'ree some more de boy,--w'at t'ink de sam' he do
32   Pass on de train de very nex' wick, was lef' Rivière du Loup.
33   Wall! mebbe fifteen year or more, since Bateese go away
34   I fin' mesef Rivière du Loup, wan cole, cole winter day
35   De quick express she come hooraw! but stop de soon she can
36   An' beeg swell feller jomp off car, dat 's boss by nigger man.
37   He 's dressim on de première classe, an' got new suit of clothes
38   Wit' long moustache dat 's stickim out, de 'noder side hees nose
39   Fine gol' watch chain--nice portmanteau--an' long, long overcoat
40   Wit' beaver hat--dat 's Yankee style--an' red tie on hees t'roat--
41   I say 'Helloe Bateese! Hello! Comment ça va mon vieux?'
42   He say 'Excuse to me, ma frien' I t'ink I don't know you.'
43   I say, 'She 's very curis t'ing, you are Bateese Trudeau,
44   Was raise on jus' sam' place wit' me, dat 's fifteen year ago?'
45   He say, 'Oh yass dat 's sure enough--I know you now firs' rate,
46   But I forget mos' all ma French since I go on de State.
47   Dere 's 'noder t'ing kip on your head, ma frien' dey mus' be tole
48   Ma name 's Bateese Trudeau no more, but John B. Waterhole!'
49   'Hole on de water 's' fonny name for man w'at 's call Trudeau
50   Ma frien's dey all was spik lak dat, an' I am tole heem so--
51   He say 'Trudeau an' Waterhole she 's jus' about de sam'
52   An' if you go for leev on State, you must have Yankee nam'.'
53   Den we invite heem come wit' us, 'Hotel du Canadaw'
54   W'ere he was treat mos' ev'ry tam, but can't tak' w'isky blanc,
55   He say dat 's leetle strong for man jus' come off Central Fall
56   An' 'tabac Canayen' bedamme! he won't smoke dat at all!--
57   But fancy drink lak 'Collins John' de way he put it down
58   Was long tam since I don't see dat--I t'ink he 's goin' drown!--
59   An' fine cigar cos' five cent each, an' mak' on Trois-Rivières
60   L'enfant! he smoke beeg pile of dem--for monee he don't care!
61   I s'pose meseff it 's t'ree o'clock w'en we are t'roo dat night
62   Bateese, hees fader come for heem, an' tak' heem home all right
63   De ole man say Bateese spik French, w'en he is place on bed--
64   An' say bad word--but w'en he wake--forget it on hees head--
65   Wall! all de winter w'en we have soirée dat 's grande affaire
66   Bateese Trudeau, dit Waterhole, he be de boss man dere--
67   You bet he have beeg tam, but w'en de spring is come encore
68   He 's buy de première classe tiquette for go on State some more.
69   You 'member w'en de hard tam come on Les Etats Unis
70   An' plaintee Canayens go back for stay deir own contrée?
71   Wall! jus' about 'dat tam again I go Rivière du Loup
72   For sole me two t'ree load of hay--mak' leetle visit too--
73   De freight train she is jus' arrive--only ten hour delay--
74   She 's never carry passengaire--dat 's w'at dey always say--
75   I see poor man on char caboose--he 's got heem small valise
76   Begosh! I nearly tak' de fit,--It is--it is Bateese!
77   He know me very well dis tam, an' say 'Bon jour, mon vieux
78   I hope you know Bateese Trudeau was educate wit' you
79   I 'm jus' come off de State to see ma familee encore
80   I bus' mesef on Central Fall--I don't go dere no more.'
81   'I got no monee--not at all--I 'm broke it up for sure--
82   Dat 's locky t'ing, Napoleon, de brakeman Joe Latour
83   He 's cousin of wan frien' of me call Camille Valiquette,
84   Conductor too 's good Canayen--don't ax me no tiquette.'
85   I tak' Bateese wit' me once more 'Hotel du Canadaw'
86   An' he was glad for get de chance drink some good w'isky blanc!
87   Dat 's warm heem up, an den he eat mos' ev'ryt'ing he see,
88   I watch de w'ole beez-nesse mese'f--Monjee! he was hongree!
89   Madame Charette wat 's kip de place get very much excite
90   For see de many pork an' bean Bateese put out of sight
91   Du pain doré--potate pie--an' 'noder t'ing be dere
92   But w'en Bateese is get heem t'roo--dey go I don't know w'ere.
93   It don't tak' long for tole de news 'Bateese come off de State'
94   An' purty soon we have beeg crowd, lak village she 's en fête
95   Bonhomme Maxime Trudeau hese'f, he 's comin' wit' de pries'
96   An' pass' heem on de 'Room for eat' w'ere he is see Bateese.
97   Den ev'rybody feel it glad, for watch de embrasser
98   An' bimeby de ole man spik 'Bateese you here for stay?'
99   Bateese he 's cry lak beeg bebè, 'Bâ j'eux rester ici.
100   An if I never see de State, I 'm sure I don't care--me.'
101   'Correc',' Maxime is say right off, ' I place you on de farm
102   For help your poor ole fader, won't do you too moche harm
103   Please come wit' me on Magasin, I feex you up--bâ oui
104   An' den you 're ready for go home an' see de familee.'
105   Wall! w'en de ole man an' Bateese come off de Magasin
106   Bateese is los' hees Yankee clothes--he 's dress lak Canayen
107   Wit' bottes sauvages--ceinture fléché--an' coat wit' capuchon
108   An' spik Français au naturel, de sam' as habitant.
109   I see Bateese de oder day, he 's work hees fader's place
110   I t'ink mese'f he 's satisfy--I see dat on hees face
111   He say 'I got no use for State, mon cher Napoleon
112   Kebeck she 's good enough for me--Hooraw pour Canadaw.'
944
I learned—at least—what Home could be—
How ignorant I had been
Of pretty ways of Covenant—
How awkward at the Hymn
Round our new Fireside—but for this—
This pattern—of the Way—
Whose Memory drowns me, like the Dip
Of a Celestial Sea—
What Mornings in our Garden—guessed—
What Bees—for us—to hum—
With only Birds to interrupt
The Ripple of our Theme—
And Task for Both—
When Play be done—
Your Problem—of the Brain—
And mine—some foolisher effect—
A Ruffle—or a Tune—
The Afternoons—Together spent—
And Twilight—in the Lanes—
Some ministry to poorer lives—
Seen poorest—thro' our gains—
And then Return—and Night—and Home—
And then away to You to pass—
A new—diviner—care—
Till Sunrise take us back to Scene—
Transmuted—Vivider—
This seems a Home—
And Home is not—
But what that Place could be—
Afflicts me—as a Setting Sun—
Where Dawn—knows how to be—
413
I never felt at Home—Below—-
And in the Handsome Skies
I shall not feel at Home—I know—
I don't like Paradise—
Because it's Sunday—all the time—
And Recess—never comes—
And Eden'll be so lonesome
Bright Wednesday Afternoons—
If God could make a visit—
Or ever took a Nap—
So not to see us—but they say
Himself—a Telescope
Perennial beholds us—
Myself would run away
From Him—and Holy Ghost—and All—
But there's the "Judgement Day"!
I want my own home
A home I’ll long to be in it
A home where there is real peace
A home I can get into
Anytime I wanted too
With the doors wide open
A home with a TV
A TV I can watch on
As long as I can
A home with a radio
Where I can play in full audio
To its loudness I can bear
A home with foods
Though it’s quite few
But will never be accounted
A home where me and my child
Can play around without restriction
Laugh with no inhibitions
A simple home I’ve wanted to
But too hard to be mine
Too hard to be called mine
01.01.06
I years had been from home,
And now, before the door,
I dared not open, lest a face
I never saw before
Stare vacant into mine
And ask my business there.
My business,--just a life I left,
Was such still dwelling there?
I fumbled at my nerve,
I scanned the windows near;
The silence like an ocean rolled,
And broke against my ear.
I laughed a wooden laugh
That I could fear a door,
Who danger and the dead had faced,
But never quaked before.
I fitted to the latch
My hand, with trembling care,
Lest back the awful door should spring,
And leave me standing there.
I moved my fingers off
As cautiously as glass,
And held my ears, and like a thief
Fled gasping from the house.
The time that my journey takes is long and the way of it long.
I came out on the chariot of the first gleam of light, and pursued my
voyage through the wildernesses of worlds leaving my track on many a star and planet.
It is the most distant course that comes nearest to thyself,
and that training is the most intricate which leads to the utter simplicity of a tune.
The traveler has to knock at every alien door to come to his own,
and one has to wander through all the outer worlds to reach the innermost shrine at the end.
My eyes strayed far and wide before I shut them and said `Here art thou!'
The question and the cry `Oh, where?' melt into tears of a thousand
streams and deluge the world with the flood of the assurance `I am!'
- New Orleans, November 1910
Four weeks have passed since I left, and still
I must write to you of no work. I've worn down
the soles and walked through the tightness
of my new shoes calling upon the merchants,
their offices bustling. All the while I kept thinking
my plain English and good writing would secure
for me some modest position Though I dress each day
in my best, hands covered with the lace gloves
you crocheted- no one needs a girl. How flat
the word sounds, and heavy. My purse thins.
I spend foolishly to make an appearance of quiet
industry, to mask the desperation that tightens
my throat. I sit watching-
though I pretend not to notice- the dark maids
ambling by with their white charges. Do I deceive
anyone? Were they to see my hands, brown
as your dear face, they'd know I'm not quite
what I pretend to be. I walk these streets
a white woman, or so I think, until I catch the eyes
of some stranger upon me, and I must lower mine,
a negress again. There are enough things here
to remind me who I am. Mules lumbering through
the crowded streets send me into reverie, their footfall
the sound of a pointer and chalk hitting the blackboard
at school, only louder. Then there are women, clicking
their tongues in conversation, carrying their loads
on their heads. Their husky voices, the wash pots
and irons of the laundresses call to me.
I thought not to do the work I once did, back bending
and domestic; my schooling a gift- even those half days
at picking time, listening to Miss J- . How
I'd come to know words, the recitations I practiced
to sound like her, lilting, my sentences curling up
or trailing off at the ends. I read my books until
I nearly broke their spines, and in the cotton field,
I repeated whole sections I'd learned by heart,
spelling each word in my head to make a picture
I could see, as well as a weight I could feel
in my mouth. So now, even as I write this
and think of you at home, Goodbye
is the waving map of your palm, is
a stone on my tongue.
Though bleak these woods, and damp the ground
With fallen leaves so thickly strown,
And cold the wind that wanders round
With wild and melancholy moan;
There is a friendly roof, I know,
Might shield me from the wintry blast;
There is a fire, whose ruddy glow
Will cheer me for my wanderings past.
And so, though still, where'er I go,
Cold stranger-glances meet my eye;
Though, when my spirit sinks in woe,
Unheeded swells the unbidden sigh;
Though solitude, endured too long,
Bids youthful joys too soon decay,
Makes mirth a stranger to my tongue,
And overclouds my noon of day;
When kindly thoughts, that would have way,
Flow back discouraged to my breast; --
I know there is, though far away,
A home where heart and soul may rest.
Warm hands are there, that, clasped in mine,
The warmer heart will not belie;
While mirth, and truth, and friendship shine
In smiling lip and earnest eye.
The ice that gathers round my heart
May there be thawed; and sweetly, then,
The joys of youth, that now depart,
Will come to cheer my soul again.
Though far I roam, that thought shall be
My hope, my comfort, everywhere;
While such a home remains to me,
My heart shall never know despair!
Acton
Retired thoughts enjoy their own delights,
As beauty doth in self-beholding eye ;
Man's mind a mirror is of heavenly sights,
A brief wherein all marvels summed lie,
Of fairest forms and sweetest shapes the store,
Most graceful all, yet thought may grace them more.
The mind a creature is, yet can create,
To nature's patterns adding higher skill ;
Of finest works with better could the state
If force of wit had equal power of will.
Device of man in working hath no end,
What thought can think, another thought can mend.
Man's soul of endless beauty image is,
Drawn by the work of endless skill and might ;
This skillful might gave many sparks of bliss
And, to discern this bliss, a native light ;
To frame God's image as his worths required
His might, his skill, his word and will conspired.
All that he had his image should present,
All that it should present it could afford,
To that he could afford his will was bent,
His will was followed with performing word.
Let this suffice, by this conceive the rest,
He should, he could, he would, he did, the best.
I
My childhood's home I see again,
And sadden with the view;
And still, as memory crowds my brain,
There's pleasure in it too.
O Memory! thou midway world
'Twixt earth and paradise,
Where things decayed and loved ones lost
In dreamy shadows rise,
And, freed from all that's earthly vile,
Seem hallowed, pure, and bright,
Like scenes in some enchanted isle
All bathed in liquid light.
As dusky mountains please the eye
When twilight chases day;
As bugle-tones that, passing by,
In distance die away;
As leaving some grand waterfall,
We, lingering, list its roar--
So memory will hallow all
We've known, but know no more.
Near twenty years have passed away
Since here I bid farewell
To woods and fields, and scenes of play,
And playmates loved so well.
Where many were, but few remain
Of old familiar things;
But seeing them, to mind again
The lost and absent brings.
The friends I left that parting day,
How changed, as time has sped!
Young childhood grown, strong manhood gray,
And half of all are dead.
I hear the loved survivors tell
How nought from death could save,
Till every sound appears a knell,
And every spot a grave.
I range the fields with pensive tread,
And pace the hollow rooms,
And feel (companion of the dead)
I'm living in the tombs.
II
But here's an object more of dread
Than ought the grave contains--
A human form with reason fled,
While wretched life remains.
Poor Matthew! Once of genius bright,
A fortune-favored child--
Now locked for aye, in mental night,
A haggard mad-man wild.
Poor Matthew! I have ne'er forgot,
When first, with maddened will,
Yourself you maimed, your father fought,
And mother strove to kill;
When terror spread, and neighbors ran,
Your dange'rous strength to bind;
And soon, a howling crazy man
Your limbs were fast confined.
How then you strove and shrieked aloud,
Your bones and sinews bared;
And fiendish on the gazing crowd,
With burning eye-balls glared--
And begged, and swore, and wept and prayed
With maniac laught[ter?] joined--
How fearful were those signs displayed
By pangs that killed thy mind!
And when at length, tho' drear and long,
Time smoothed thy fiercer woes,
How plaintively thy mournful song
Upon the still night rose.
I've heard it oft, as if I dreamed,
Far distant, sweet, and lone--
The funeral dirge, it ever seemed
Of reason dead and gone.
To drink it's strains, I've stole away,
All stealthily and still,
Ere yet the rising God of day
Had streaked the Eastern hill.
Air held his breath; trees, with the spell,
Seemed sorrowing angels round,
Whose swelling tears in dew-drops fell
Upon the listening ground.
But this is past; and nought remains,
That raised thee o'er the brute.
Thy piercing shrieks, and soothing strains,
Are like, forever mute.
Now fare thee well--more thou the cause,
Than subject now of woe.
All mental pangs, by time's kind laws,
Hast lost the power to know.
O death! Thou awe-inspiring prince,
That keepst the world in fear;
Why dost thos tear more blest ones hence,
And leave him ling'ring here?
This is the place that I love the best,
A little brown house, like a ground-bird's nest,
Hid among grasses, and vines, and trees,
Summer retreat of the birds and bees.
The tenderest light that ever was seen
Sifts through the vine-made window screen--
Sifts and quivers, and flits and falls
On home-made carpets and gray-hung walls.
All through June the west wind free
The breath of clover brings to me.
All through the languid July day
I catch the scent of new-mown hay.
The morning-glories and scarlet vine
Over the doorway twist and twine;
And every day, when the house is still,
The humming-bird comes to the window-sill.
In the cunningest chamber under the sun
I sink to sleep when the day is done;
And am waked at morn, in my snow-white bed,
By a singing bird on the roof o'erhead.
Better than treasures brought from Rome,
Are the living pictures I see at home--
My aged father, with frosted hair,
And mother's face, like a painting rare.
Far from the city's dust and heat,
I get but sounds and odors sweet.
Who can wonder I love to stay,
Week after week, here hidden away,
In this sly nook that I love the best--
This little brown house like a ground-bird's nest?
1     The sun shines bright in the old Kentucky home,
2     'Tis summer, the darkies are gay,
3     The corn top's ripe and the meadow's in the bloom
4     While the birds make music all the day.
5     The young folks roll on the little cabin floor,
6     All merry, all happy and bright:
7     By'n by Hard Times comes a knocking at the door,
8     Then my old Kentucky Home, good night!
9     [Chorus] Weep no more, my lady, oh! weep no more to-day!
10   We will sing one song
11   For the old Kentucky Home,
12   For the old Kentucky Home, far away.
13   [Solo] They hunt no more for the possum and the coon
14   On the meadow, the hill and the shore,
15   They sing no more by the glimmer of the moon,
16   On the bench by the old cabin door.
17   The day goes by like a shadow o'er the heart,
18   With sorrow where all was delight:
19   The time has come when the darkies have to part,
20   Then my old Kentucky Home, good-night!
21   [Chorus] Weep no more, my lady, oh! weep no more to-day!
22   We will sing one song
23   For the old Kentucky Home,
24   For the old Kentucky Home, far away.
25   [Solo] The head must bow and the back will have to bend,
26   Wherever the darkey may go:
27   A few more days, and the trouble all will end
28   In the field where the sugar-canes grow.
29   A few more days for to tote the weary load,
30   No matter 'twill never be light,
31   A few more days till we totter on the road,
32   Then my old Kentucky Home, good-night!
33   [Chorus] Weep no more, my lady, oh! weep no more to-day!
34   We will sing one song
35   For the old Kentucky Home,
36   For the old Kentucky Home, far away.
My parents have come home laughing
From the feast for Robert Burns, late, on foot;
They have leaned against graveyard walls,
Have bent double in the glittering frost,
Their bladders heavy with tea and ginger.
Burns, suspended in a drop, is flicked away
As they wipe their eyes, and is not offended.
What could offend him?Not the squeaking bagpipe
Nor the haggis which, when it was sliced, collapsed
In a meal of blood and oats
Nor the man who read a poem by Scott
As the audience hissed embarrassment
Nor the principal speaker whose topic,
"Burns' View of Crop Rotation," was intended
For farmers, who were not present,
Nor his attempt to cover this error, reciting
The only Burns poem all evening,
"Nine Inch Will Please a Lady," to thickening silence.
They drop their coats in the hall,
Mother first to the toilet, then Father,
And then stand giggling at the phone,
Debating a call to the States, decide no,
And the strength to keep laughing breaks
In a sigh.I hear, as their tired ribs
Press together, their bedroom door not close
And hear also a weeping from both of them
That seems not to be pain, and it comforts me.
When the wasting embers redden the chimney-breast,
And Life's bare pathway looms like a desert track to me,
And from hall and parlour the living have gone to their rest,
My perished people who housed them here come back to me.
They come and seat them around in their mouldy places,
Now and then bending towards me a glance of wistfulness,
A strange upbraiding smile upon all their faces,
And in the bearing of each a passive tristfulness.
'Do you uphold me, lingering and languishing here,
A pale late plant of your once strong stock?' I say to them;
'A thinker of crooked thoughts upon Life in the sere,
An on That which consigns men to night after showing the day to them?'
'--O let be the Wherefore! We fevered our years not thus:
Take of Life what it grants, without question!' they answer me seemingly.
'Enjoy, suffer, wait: spread the table here freely like us,
And, satisfied, placid, unfretting, watch Time away beamingly!'
A stranger lies ill, in a distant city,
With no - - letters from home!
The glances that meet him, in lieu of pity,
Are querring, "Why does he roam?"
"Oh, heed my request," says he, "else 'twere better
I slept in this gold-dusted loam;
Dismiss the physician, and bring a letter--
A flock of kind letters from home."
"Oh, heed my request," says he, "else 'twer better I
I slept in this gold-dusted loam;
Dismiss the physician, and bring a letter--
A flock of kind letters from home."
Like messenger doves, from across the mountains,
Cream tinted and golden and white?
Like the clouds that have sipp'd at the Eastern fountains
For thirsty land to take flight;
So come the dear missives--but ah! the stranger
Receives none to lighten his gloom;
In this time of sickness, this hour of danger,
Not ever one letter from home!
He moans in his slumber "Why did I ever
So far - - westwardly roam;
Oh, must I lie down must I sleep forever
With no loving letters from home?
My bones you may bury where winds are lifting
Pacific's broad billows in foam;
Or there on Lone Mountain, where sands are drifting,
But first, bring a letter from home."
"From the 'Golden' up to the portals pearly,"
He murmurs, "Oh can it be far?
On the sunset domain, in the morn how early
Will glimmer the Orient Star?
What light is the melting my shade like fetters?
What birds are those circling the dome?
Those messenger doves are my long sought letters
My flock of kind letters from home."
"They heed my request," says he, "best of debtors,
Their favors are whitening the dome!
Sweet messenger doves are my long sought letters,
My flock of kind letters from home."
Oh how I miss those walks in the park,
where birds would sing and dogs did bark.
Nuts for the pigeons and some for the squiriels,
swan boats dfift by leaving watery swirls.
Happy laughter of children floated by as on wings,
playing with friends and soaring on swings.
People walked by, some nodded or smiled,
young folk gave agreeting, others chatted awhile.
Remembering all this fills me with joy.
Now it's, here take your pills, oh that's a good boy.
Oh stay at home, my lad, and plough
The land and not the sea,
And leave the soldiers at their drill,
And all about the idle hill
Shepherd your sheep with me.
Oh stay with company and mirth
And daylight and the air;
Too full already is the grave
Of fellows that were good and brave
And died bacause they were.
1     Way down upon de Swanee ribber,
2     Far, far away,
3     Dere's wha my heart is turning ebber,
4     Dere's wha de old folks stay.
5     All up and down de whole creation,
6     Sadly I roam,
7     Still longing for de old plantation,
8     And for de old folks at home.
9     [Chorus] All de world am sad and dreary,
10   Ebry where I roam,
11   Oh! darkeys how my heart grows weary,
12   Far from de old folks at home.
13   [Solo] All round de little farm I wandered
14   When I was young,
15   Den many happy days I squandered,
16   Many de songs I sung.
17   When I was playing wid my brudder
18   Happy was I --.
19   Oh! take me to my kind old mudder,
20   Dere let me live and die.
21     [Chorus] All de world am sad and dreary,
22   Ebry where I roam,
23   Oh! darkeys how my heart grows weary,
24   Far from de old folks at home.
25   One little hut among de bushes,
26   One dat I love,
27   Still sadly to my mem'ry rushes,
28   No matter where I rove
29   When will I see de bees a humming
30   All round de comb?
31   When will I hear de banjo tumming
32   Down in my good old home?
33     [Chorus] All de world am sad and dreary,
34   Ebry where I roam,
35   Oh! darkeys how my heart grows weary,
36   Far from de old folks at home
Back, in my fifties, fatter that I was then,
I step on the sand, belch down slight horror to walk
a wincing pit edge, waiting for the pistol shot
laughter. Long greening waves cash themselves, foam change
sliding into Ocean's pocket. She turns: ridicule looks down,
strappy, with faces averted, or is glare and families.
The great hawk of the beach is outstretched, point to point,
quivering and hunting. Cars are the stuff at its back.
You peer, at this age, but it's still there, ridicule,
the pistol that kills women, that gets them killed, crippling men
on the towel-spattered sand. Equality is dressed, neatly,
with mouth still shut. Bared body is not equal ever.
Some are smiled to each other. Many surf, swim, play ball:
like that red boy, holding his wet T shirt off his breasts.
On the way home
I came from a journey
On the way home
I took the train
On  the way home while I was sitting in the chair
I saw my love....my crush... I couldnt help but stare
This time I didnt care what people thought
I had to be with you someday, someway
People can say whatever
but they cant break what we built
On the way home
I was all alone
But i knew what i felt along the way
gazing into the city
nothing amuzes me like him
Cars drive by
Lights shine bright
but I dont really stop and look
Its all about me and him soon....
Prophets have honour all over the Earth,
Except in the village where they were born,
Where such as knew them boys from birth
Nature-ally hold 'em in scorn.
When Prophets are naughty and young and vain,
They make a won'erful grievance of it;
(You can see by their writings how they complain),
But 0, 'tis won'erful good for the Prophet!
There's nothing Nineveh Town can give
(Nor being swallowed by whales between),
Makes up for the place where a man's folk live,
Which don't care nothing what he has been.
He might ha' been that, or he might ha' been this,
But they love and they hate him for what he is.
Sweet Stay-at-Home, sweet Well-content,
Thou knowest of no strange continent;
Thou hast not felt thy bosom keep
A gentle motion with the deep;
Thou hast not sailed in Indian seas,
Where scent comes forth in every breeze.
Thou hast not seen the rich grape grow
For miles, as far as eyes can go:
Thou hast not seen a summer's night
When maids could sew by a worm's light;
Nor the North Sea in spring send out
Bright hues that like birds flit about
In solid cages of white ice --
Sweet Stay-at-Home, sweet Love-one-place,
Thou hast not seen black fingers pick
White cotton when the bloom is thick,
Nor heard black throats in harmony;
Nor hast thou sat on stones that lie
Flat on the earth, that once did rise
To hide proud kings from common eyes.
Thou hast not seen plains full of bloom
Where green things had such little room
They pleased the eye like fairer flowers --
Sweet Stay-at-Home, all these long hours.
Sweet Well-content, sweet Love-one-place,
Sweet, simple maid, bless thy dear face;
For thou hast made more homely stuff
Nurture thy gentle self enough;
I love thee for a heart that's kind --
Not for the knowledge in thy mind.
"Men know but little more than we,
Who count us least of things terrene,
How happy days are made to be!
"Of such strange tidings what think ye,
O birds in brown that peck and preen?
Men know but little more than we!
"When I was borne from yonder tree
In bonds to them, I hoped to glean
How happy days are made to be,
"And want and wailing turned to glee;
Alas, despite their mighty mien
Men know but little more than we!
"They cannot change the Frost's decree,
They cannot keep the skies serene;
How happy days are made to be
"Eludes great Man's sagacity
No less than ours, O tribes in treen!
Men know but little more than we
How happy days are made to be."
7
The feet of people walking home
With gayer sandals go—
The Crocus— til she rises
The Vassal of the snow—
The lips at Hallelujah
Long years of practise bore
Til bye and bye these Bargemen
Walked singing on the shore.
Pearls are the Diver's farthings
Extorted from the Sea—
Pinions— the Seraph's wagon
Pedestrian once— as we—
Night is the morning's Canvas
Larceny— legacy—
Death, but our rapt attention
To Immortality.
My figures fail to tell me
How far the Village lies—
Whose peasants are the Angels—
Whose Cantons dot the skies—
My Classics veil their faces—
My faith that Dark adores—
Which from its solemn abbeys
Such ressurection pours.
When the daylight fades on the tented field,
And the campfire cheerfully burns,
Then the Soldier's thought, like a carrier dove,
To his own love home returns;
Like a carrier dove -- a carrier dove,
And gleams beyond the foam,
So a light springs up in the Soldier's heart,
As he thinks of the Girls at Home.
When the shadows dance on the canvas walls,
And the camp with melody rings,
'Tis the good old song of the Stars and Stripes,
That the fireside circle sings;
Of the Stars and Stripes -- the Stars and Stripes --
For love of which they roam;
But the final song and the sweetest one,
Is the song of the Girls at Home.
Now the silver rays of a setting moon,
Thru' the lofty sycamores creep,
And the fires burn low, and the sentries watch
O'er the arm-ed host a-sleep;
And the sentries watch -- the sentries watch --
Till morning gilds the dome;
Till the rattling drum shall the sleepers rouse
From the dream of the Girls at Home.
What does a hangman think about
When he goes home at night from work?
When he sits down with his wife and
Children for a cup of coffee and a
Plate of ham and eggs, do they ask
Him if it was a good day's work
And everything went well or do they
Stay off some topics and kill about
The weather, baseball, politics
And the comic strips in the papers
And the movies? Do they look at his
Hands when he reaches for the coffee
Or the ham and eggs? If the little
Ones say, Daddy, play horse, here's
A rope--does he answer like a joke:
I seen enough rope for today?
Or does his face light up like a
Bonfire of joy and does he say:
It's a good and dandy world we live
'In. And if a white face moon looks
In through a window where a baby girl
Sleeps and the moon-gleams mix with
Baby ears and baby hair--the hangman--
How does he act then? It must be easy
For him. Anything is easy for a hangman,
I guess.
To the Right Honourable Mildmay, Earl of Westmoreland
Come, sons of summer, by whose toil
We are the lords of wine and oil;
By whose tough labours, and rough hands,
We rip up first, then reap our lands.
Crown'd with the ears of corn, now come,
And to the pipe sing Harvest Home.
Come forth, my lord, and see the cart
Dress'd up with all the country art.
See, here a malkin, there a sheet,
As spotless pure, as it is sweet;
The horses, mares, and frisking fillies,
(Clad, all, in linen, white as lilies.)
The harvest swains and wenches bound
For joy, to see the Hock-cart crown'd.
About the cart, hear, how the rout
Of rural younglings raise the shout;
Pressing before, some coming after,
Those with a shout, and these with laughter.
Some bless the cart; some kisses the sheaves;
Some prank them up with oaken leaves;
Some cross the fill-horse; some with great
Devotion, stroke the home-borne wheat;
While other rustics, less attent
To prayers than to merriment,
Run after with their breeches rent.
Well, on, brave boys, to your lord's hearth,
Glitt'ring with fire, where, for your mirth,
Ye shall see first the large and chief
Foundation of your feast, fat beef,
With upper stories, mutton, veal,
And bacon, (which makes full the meal)
With sev'ral dishes standing by,
As here a custard, there a pie,
And here all tempting frumenty.
And for to make the merry cheer,
If smirking wine be wanting here,
There's that which drowns all care, stout beer,
Which freely drink to your lord's health,
Then to the plough, (the common-wealth)
Next to your flails, your fanes, your fats;
Then to the maids with wheaten hats;
To the rough sickle and crook'd scythe,
Drink frolic boys, till all be blythe.
Feed and grow fat; and as ye eat,
Be mindful, that the lab'ring neat
(As you) may have their fill of meat
And know, besides, ye must revoke
The patient ox unto the yoke,
And all go back unto the plough
And harrow, (though they're hang'd up now.)
And, you must know, your lord's word's true,
Feed him ye must, whose food fills you.
And that this pleasure is like rain,
Not sent ye for to drown your pain,
But for to make it spring again.
Come, Sons of Summer, by whose toil
We are the lords of wine and oil:
By whose tough labours, and rough hands,
We rip up first, then reap our lands.
Crown'd with the ears of corn, now come,
And, to the pipe, sing Harvest Home.
Come forth, my lord, and see the cart
Drest up with all the country art.
See, here a maukin, there a sheet,
As spotless pure, as it is sweet:
The horses, mares, and frisking fillies,
Clad, all, in linen white as lilies.
The harvest swains and wenches bound
For joy, to see the Hock-Cart crown'd.
About the cart, hear, how the rout
Of rural younglings raise the shout;
Pressing before, some coming after,
Those with a shout, and these with laughter.
Some bless the cart; some kiss the sheaves;
Some prank them up with oaken leaves:
Some cross the fill-horse; some with great
Devotion, stroke the home-borne wheat:
While other rustics, less attent
To prayers, than to merriment,
Run after with their breeches rent.
--Well, on, brave boys, to your lord's hearth,
Glitt'ring with fire; where, for your mirth,
Ye shall see first the large and chief
Foundation of your feast, fat beef;
With upper stories, mutton, veal
And bacon, which makes full the meal,
With sev'ral dishes standing by,
As here a custard, there a pie,
And here, all tempting frumenty.
And for to make the merry cheer,
If smirking wine be wanting here,
There's that which drowns all care, stout beer:
Which freely drink to your lord's health
Then to the plough, the common-wealth;
Next to your flails, your fanes, your vats;
Then to the maids with wheaten hats:
To the rough sickle, and crookt scythe,--
Drink, frolic, boys, till all be blythe.
Feed, and grow fat; and as ye eat,
Be mindful, that the lab'ring neat,
As you, may have their fill of meat.
And know, besides, ye must revoke
The patient ox unto the yoke,
And all go back unto the plough
And harrow, though they're hang'd up now.
And, you must know, your lord's word's true,
Feed him ye must, whose food fills you;
And that this pleasure is like rain,
Not sent ye for to drown your pain,
But for to make it spring again.
Trust and treachery, wisdom, folly,
Madness, mirth and melancholy,
Love and hatred, thrift and pillage,
All are housed in every village.
And in such a world’s mixed being,
Where may peace, from ruin fleeing,
Find fit shelter and inherit
All the calm of her own merit?
In a bark of gentle motion
Sailing on the summer ocean?
There worst war the tempest wages,
And the hungry whirlpool rages.
In some lonely new-world bower
Hidden like a forest flower?
There, too, there, to fray the stranger
Stalks the wild-eyed savage, danger!
In some Alpine cot, by fountains
Flowing from snow-shining mountains?
There the avalanches thunder,
Crushing all that lieth under!
In some hermit-tent, pitched lowly
Mid the tombs of prophets holy?
There to harry and annoy her
Roams the infidel destroyer.
In palatial chambers gilded,
Guarded round with towers high-builded?
Change may enter these to-morrow,
And with change may enter sorrow.
Find, O peace, thy home of beauty
In the steadfast heart of duty,
Dwelling ever there, and seeing
God through every phase of being
I paced alone on the road across the field while the sunset was
hiding its last gold like a miser.
The daylight sank deeper and deeper into the darkness, and the
widowed land, whose harvest had been reaped, lay silent.
Suddenly a boy's shrill voice rose into the sky. He traversed
the dark unseen, leaving the track of his song across the hush of
the evening.
His village home lay there at the end of the waste land,
beyond the sugar-cane field, hidden among the shadows of the banana
and the slender areca palm, the coconut and the dark green jack-
fruit trees.
I stopped for a moment in my lonely way under the starlight,
and saw spread before me the darkened earth surrounding with her
arms countless homes furnished with cradles and beds, mother's
hearts and evening lamps, and young lives glad with a gladness that
knows nothing of its value for the world.
When I go back from Billy's place I always have to roam
The mazy road, the crazy road that leads the long way home.
Ma always says, "Why don't you come through Mr Donkin's land?
The footbridge track will bring you back." Ma doesn't understand.
I cannot go that way, you know, because of Donkin's dog;
So I set forth and travel north,, and cross the fallen log.
Last week, when I was coming by, that log had lizards in it;
And you can't say I stop to play if I just search a minute.
I look around upon the ground and, if there are no lizards,
I go right on and reach the turn in front of Mrs Blizzard's.
I do not seek to cross the creek, because it's deep and floody,
And Ma would be annoyed with me if I came home all muddy.
Perhaps I throw a stone or so at Mrs Blizzard's tank,
Because it's great when I aim straight to hear the stone go "Plank
Then west I wend from Blizzard's Bend, and not a moment wait,
Except, perhaps, at Mr Knapp's, to swing upon his gate.
So up the hill I go, until I reach the little paddock
That Mr Jones at present owns and rents to Mr Craddock.
For boys my size the sudden rise is quite a heavy pull,
And yet I fear a short-cut here because of Craddock's bull;
So I just tease the bull till he's as mad as he can get,
And then I face the corner place that's been so long to let.
It's very well for Ma to tell about my dawdling habits.
What would you do, suppose you knew the place was thick with rabbits?
I do not stay for half a day, as Ma declares I do,.
No, not for more than half-an-hour - perhaps an hour - or two.
Then down the drop I run, slip-slop, where all the road is slithy.
And have to go quite close, you know, to Mr Horner's smithy.
A moment I might tarry by the fence to watch them hammer,
And, I must say, learn more that way than doing sums and grammar.
And, if I do sometimes climb through, I do not mean to linger'.
Though I did stay awhile the day Bill Homer burst his finger.
I just stand there to see the pair bang some hot iron thing
And watch Bill Horner swing the sledge and hit the anvil - Bing!
(For Mr Horner and his son are great big brawny fellows:
Both splendid chaps!) And then, perhaps, they let me blow the bellows.
A while I stop beside the shop, and talk to Mr Horner;
Then off I run, and race like fun around by Duggan's Corner.
It's getting late, and I don't wait beside the creek a minute,
Except to stop, maybe, and drop a few old pebbles in it.
A few yards more, and here's the store that's kept by Mr Whittle-
And you can't say I waste the day if I 'ust wait ... a little.
One day, you know, a year ago, a man gave me a penny,
And Mr Whittle sold me sweets (but not so very many).
You never know your luck, and so I look to see what's new
In Mr Whittle's window.  There's a peppermint or two,
Some buttons and tobacco (Mr Whittle calls it "baccy"),
And fish in tins, and tape, and pins.... And then a voice calls, "Jacky!"
"I'm coming, Ma.  I've been so far-around by Duggan's Corner.
I had to stay awhile to say 'Good day' to Mr Horner.
I feel so fagged; I've tramped and dragged through mud and over logs, Ma -
I could not go short-cuts, you know, because of bulls and dogs, Ma.
The creek, Ma? Why, it's very high ! You don't call that a gutter?
Bill Horner chews tobacco, Ma .... I'd like some bread and butter."
Come back to me, little dancing feet that roam the wide world o'er,
I long for the lilt of your flying steps in my silent rooms once more;
Come back to me, little voices gay with laughter and with song,
Come back, little hearts beating high with hopes, I have missed and mourned you long.
My roses bloom in my garden walks all sweet and wet with the dew,
My lights shine down on the long hill road the waning twilights through,
The swallows flutter about my eaves as in the years of old,
And close about me their steadfast arms the lisping pine trees fold.
But I weary for you at morn and eve, O, children of my love,
Come back to me from your pilgrim ways, from the seas and plains ye rove,
Come over the meadows and up the lane to my door set open wide,
And sit ye down where the red light shines from my welcoming fireside.
I keep for you all your childhood dreams, your gladness and delights,
The joy of days in the sun and rain, the sleep of carefree nights,
All the sweet faiths ye have lost and sought again shall be your own,
Darlings, come to my empty heart­I am old and still and alone!
Home they brought her warrior dead:
She nor swoon'd nor utter'd cry:
All her maidens, watching, said,
"She must weep or she will die."
Then they praised him, soft and low,
Call'd him worthy to be loved,
Truest friend and noblest foe;
Yet she neither spoke nor moved.
Stole a maiden from her place,
Lightly to the warrior stepped,
Took the face-cloth from the face;
Yet she neither moved nor wept.
Rose a nurse of ninety years,
Set his child upon her knee--
Like summer tempest came her tears--
"Sweet my child, I live for thee."
Close on the margin of a brawling brook
That bathes the low dell's bosom, stands a Cot;
O'ershadow'd by broad Alders. At its door
A rude seat, with an ozier canopy
Invites the weary traveller to rest.
'Tis a poor humble dwelling; yet within,
The sweets of joy domestic, oft have made
The long hour not unchearly, while the Moor
Was covered with deep snow, and the bleak blast
Swept with impetuous wing the mountain's brow!
On ev'ry tree of the near shelt'ring wood
The minstrelsy of Nature, shrill and wild,
Welcomes the stranger guest, and carolling
Love-songs, spontaneous, greets him merrily.
The distant hills, empurpled by the dawn
And thinly scatter'd with blue mists that float
On their bleak summits dimly visible,
Skirt the domain luxuriant, while the air
Breathes healthful fragrance. On the Cottage roof
The gadding Ivy, and the tawny Vine
Bind the brown thatch, the shelter'd winter-hut
Of the tame Sparrow, and the Red-breast bold.
There dwells the Soldier's Widow! young and fair
Yet not more fair than virtuous. Every day
She wastes the hour-glass, waiting his return,--
And every hour anticipates the day,
(Deceiv'd, yet cherish'd by the flatt'rer hope)
When she shall meet her Hero. On the Eve
Of Sabbath rest, she trims her little hut
With blossoms, fresh and gaudy, still, herself
The queen-flow'r of the garland ! The sweet Rose
Of wood-wild beauty, blushing thro' her tears.
One little Son she has, a lusty Boy,
The darling of her guiltless, mourning heart,
The only dear and gay associate
Of her lone widowhood. His sun-burnt cheek
Is never blanch'd with fear, though he will climb
The broad oak's branches, and with brawny arm
Sever the limpid wave. In his blue eye
Beams all his mother's gentleness of soul;
While his brave father's warm intrepid heart
Throbs in his infant bosom. 'Tis a wight
Most valourous, yet pliant as the stem
Of the low vale-born lily, when the dew
Presses its perfum'd head. Eight years his voice
Has chear'd the homely hut, for he could lisp
Soft words of filial fondness, ere his feet
Could measure the smooth path-way.
On the hills
He watches the wide waste of wavy green
Tissued with orient lustre, till his eyes
Ache with the dazzling splendour, and the main,
Rolling and blazing, seems a second Sun !
And, if a distant whitening sail appears,
Skimming the bright horizon while the mast
Is canopied with clouds of dappled gold,
He homeward hastes rejoicing. An old Tree
Is his lone watch-tow'r; 'tis a blasted Oak
Which, from a vagrant Acorn, ages past,
Sprang up, to triumph like a Savage bold
Braving the Season's warfare. There he sits
Silent and musing the long Evening hour,
'Till the short reign of Sunny splendour fades
At the cold touch of twilight. Oft he sings;
Or from his oaten pipe, untiring pours
The tune mellifluous which his father sung,
When HE could only listen.
On the sands
That bind the level sea-shore, will he stray,
When morn unlocks the East, and flings afar
The rosy day-beam ! There the boy will stop
To gather the dank weeds which ocean leaves
On the bleak strand, while winter o'er the main
Howls its nocturnal clamour. There again
He chaunts his Father's ditty. Never more
Poor mountain minstrel, shall thy bosom throb
To the sweet cadence ! never more thy tear
Fall as the dulcet breathings give each word
Expression magical ! Thy Father, Boy,
Sleeps on the bed of death ! His tongue is mute,
His fingers have forgot their pliant art,
His oaten pipe will ne'er again be heard
Echoing along the valley ! Never more
Will thy fond mother meet the balmy smile
Of peace domestic, or the circling arm
Of valour, temper'd by the milder joys
Of rural merriment. His very name
Is now forgotten! for no trophied tomb
Tells of his bold exploits; such heraldry
Befits not humble worth: For pomp and praise
Wait in the gilded palaces of Pride
To dress Ambition's Slaves. Yet, on his grave,
The unmark'd resting place of Valour's Sons,
The morning beam shines lust'rous; The meek flow'r
Still drops the twilight tear, and the night breeze
Moans melancholy music!
Then, to ME,
O ! dearer far is the poor Soldier's grave,
The Widow's lone and unregarded Cot,
The brawling Brook, and the wide Alder-bough,
The ozier Canopy, and plumy choir,
Hymning the Morn's return, than the rich Dome
Of gilded Palaces ! and sweeter far--
O! far more graceful ! far more exquisite,
The Widow's tear bathing the living rose,
Than the rich ruby, blushing on the breast,
Of guilty greatness. Welcome then to me--
The WIDOW'S LOWLY HOME : The Soldier's HEIR;
The proud inheritor of Heav'n's best gifts--
The mind unshackled--and the guiltless Soul!
All night a door floated down the river.
It tried to remember little incidents of pleasure
from its former life, like the time the lovers
leaned against it kissing for hours
and whispering those famous words.
Later, there were harsh words and a shoe
was thrown and the door was slammed.
Comings and goings by the thousands,
the early mornings and late nights, years, years.
O they've got big plans, they'll make a bundle.
The door was an island that swayed in its sleep.
The moon turned the doorknob just slightly,
burned its fingers and ran,
and still the door said nothing and slept.
At least that's what they like to say,
the little fishes and so on.
Far away, a bell rang, and then a shot was fired.
They went home and told their wives,
that never once in all their lives,
had they known a girl like me,
But... They went home.
They said my house was licking clean,
no word I spoke was ever mean,
I had an air of mystery,
But... They went home.
My praises were on all men's lips,
they liked my smile, my wit, my hips,
they'd spend one night, or two or three.
But...
207
Tho' I get home how late—how late—
So I get home - 'twill compensate—
Better will be the Ecstasy
That they have done expecting me—
When Night—descending—dumb—and dark—
They hear my unexpected knock—
Transporting must the moment be—
Brewed from decades of Agony!
To think just how the fire will burn—
Just how long-cheated eyes will turn—
To wonder what myself will say,
And what itself, will say to me—
Beguiles the Centuries of way!
TO friends at home, the lone, the admired, the lost
The gracious old, the lovely young, to May
The fair, December the beloved,
These from my blue horizon and green isles,
These from this pinnacle of distances I,
The unforgetful, dedicate.
It takes a lot of a person's life
To be French, or English, or American
Or Italian. And to be at any age. To live at any certain time.
The Polish-born resident of Manhattan is not merely a representative of
general humanity
And neither is this Sicilian fisherman stringing his bait
Or to be any gender, born where or when
Betty holding a big plate
Karen crossing her post-World War Two legs
And smiling across the table
These three Italian boys age about twenty gesturing and talking
And laughing after they get off the train
Seem fifty percent Italian and the rest percent just plain
Human race.
O mystery of growing up! O history of going to school!
O lovers O enchantments!
The subject is not over because the photograph is over.
The photographer sits down. Murnau makes the movie.
Everything is a little bit off, but has a nationality.
The oysters won't help the refugees off the boats,
Only other human creatures will. The phone rings and the Albanian
nationalist sits down.
When he gets up he hasn't become a Russian émigré or a German circus
clown
A woman is carrying a basket—a beautiful sight! She is in and of
Madagascar.
The uniformed Malay policeman sniffs the beer barrel that the brothers of
Ludwig are bringing close to him.
All humanity likes to get drunk! Are differences then all on the surface?
But even every surface gets hot
In the sun. It may be that the surface is where we are all alike!
But man and woman show that this isn't true.
We will get by, though. The train is puffing at the station
But the station isn't puffing at the train. This difference allows for a sense
of community
As when people feel really glad to have cats and dogs
And some even a few mice in the chimney. We are not alone
In the universe, and the diversity causes comfort as well as difficulty.
To be Italian takes at least half the day. To be Chinese seven-eighths of it.
Only at evening when Chang Ho, repast over, sits down to smoke
Is he exclusively human, in the way the train is exclusively itself when it is
in motion
But that's to say it wrongly. His being human is also his being seven-eighths
Chinese.
Falling in love one may get, say, twenty percent back
Toward universality, though that is probably all. Then when love's gone
One's Nigerianness increases, or one's quality of being of Nepal.
An American may start out wishing
To be everybody or that everybody were the same
Which makes him or her at least eighty percent American. Dixit Charles
Peguy, circa 1912,
"The good Lord created the French so that certain aspects of His creation
Wouldn't go unnoticed." Like the taste of wheat, sirrah! Or the Japanese.
So that someplace on earth there would be people who were
Writing haiku. But think of the human body with its arms
Its nose, its eyes, its brain often subject to alarms
Think how much energy, work, and time have gone into it,
To give us such a variegated kind of humanity!
It takes fifteen seconds this morning to be a man,
Twenty to be an old one, four to be an American,
Two to be a college graduate and four or five hours to write.
And what's more, I love you! half of every hour for weeks or months for
this;
Nine hundred seconds to be an admirer of Italian Renaissance painting,
Sixteen hours to be someone awake.
One is recognizably American, male, and of a certain generation. Nothing
takes these markers away.
Even if I live in Indonesia as a native in a hut, someone coming through
there
Will certainly gasp and say Why you're an American!
My optimism, my openness, my lack of a sense of history,
My distinctive facial muscles ready to look angry or sad or sympathetic
In a moment and not quite know where to go from there;
My assuming that anything is possible, my deep sense of superiority
And inferiority at the same time; my lack of culture,
Except for the bookish kind; my way of acting with the dog, come here
Spotty! God damn!
All these and hundreds more declare me to be what I am.
It's burdensome but also inevitable. I think so.
Expatriates have had some success with the plastic surgery
Of absence and departure. But it is never absolute. And then they must bear
the new identity as well.
Irish or Russian, the individuality in them is often mistaken for nationality.
The Russian finding a soul in the army officer, the Irishman finding in him
someone with whom he can drink.
Consider the Volga boatman? One can only guess
But probably about ninety percent Russian, eighty percent man, and thirty
percent boatman, Russian, man, and boatman,
A good person for the job, a Russian man of the river.
This dog is two-fifths wolf and less than one-thousandth a husband or
father.
Dogs resist nationality by being breeds. This one is simply Alsatian.
Though he may father forth a puppy
Who seems totally something else if for example he (the Alsatian) is attracted
To a poodle with powerful DNA. The puppy runs up to the Italian boys
who smile
Thinking it would be fun to take it to Taormina
Where they work in the hotel and to teach it tricks.
A Frenchwoman marvels at this scene.
The woman bends down to the dog and speaks to it in French.
This is hopeful and funny. To the dog all human languages are a perfumed
fog.
He wags and rises on his back legs. One Italian boy praises him, "Bravo!
canino!"
Underneath there is the rumble of the metro train. The boy looks at the
woman.
Life offers them these entangling moments as—who?—on a bicycle goes
past.
It is a Congolese with the savannah on his shoulders
And the sky in his heart, but his words as he passes are in French—
"Bonjour, m'sieu dames," and goes speeding off with his identity,
His Congolese, millennial selfhood unchanging and changing place.
The fire burns bright
And the hearth is clean swept,
As she likes it kept,
And the lamp is alight.
She is coming to-night.
The wind's east of late.
When she comes, she'll be cold,
So the big chair is rolled
Close up to the grate,
And I listen and wait.
The shutters are fast,
And the red curtains hide
Every hint of outside.
But hark, how the blast
Whistled then as it passed!
Or was it the train?
How long shall I stand,
With my watch in my hand,
And listen in vain
For the wheels in the lane?
Hark! A rumble I hear
(Will the wind not be still?),
And it comes down the hill,
And it grows on the ear,
And now it is near.
Quick, a fresh log to burn!
Run and open the door,
Hold a lamp out before
To light up the turn,
And bring in the urn.
You are come, then, at last!
O my dear, is it you?
I can scarce think it true
I am holding you fast,
And sorrow is past.
Unaware of my crime
they stood me in the dock.
I was sentenced to life....
without her.
Strange trial.
No judge.
No jury.
I wonder who my visitors will be.
There's a happy time coming,
When the boys come home.
There's a glorious day coming,
When the boys come home.
We will end the dreadful story
Of this treason dark and gory
In a sunburst of glory,
When the boys come home.
The day will seem brighter
When the boys come home,
For our hearts will be lighter
When the boys come home.
Wives and sweethearts will press them
In their arms and caress them,
And pray God to bless them,
When the boys come home.
The thinned ranks will be proudest
When the boys come home,
And their cheer will ring the loudest
When the boys come home.
The full ranks will be shattered,
And the bright arms will be battered,
And the battle-standards tattered,
When the boys come home.
Their bayonets may be rusty,
When the boys come home,
And their uniforms dusty,
When the boys come home.
But all shall see the traces
Of battle's royal graces,
In the brown and bearded faces,
When the boys come home.
Our love shall go to meet them,
When the boys come home,
To bless them and to greet them,
When the boys come home;
And the fame of their endeavor
Time and change shall not dissever
From the nation's heart forever,
When the boys come home.
On a lonely selection far out in the West
An old woman works all the day without rest,
And she croons, as she toils 'neath the sky's glassy dome,
`Sure I'll keep the ould place till the childer come home.'
She mends all the fences, she grubs, and she ploughs,
She drives the old horse and she milks all the cows,
And she sings to herself as she thatches the stack,
`Sure I'll keep the ould place till the childer come back.'
It is five weary years since her old husband died;
And oft as he lay on his deathbed he sighed
`Sure one man can bring up ten children, he can,
An' it's strange that ten sons cannot keep one old man.'
Whenever the scowling old sundowners come,
And cunningly ask if the master's at home,
`Be off,' she replies, `with your blarney and cant,
Or I'll call my son Andy; he's workin' beyant.'
`Git out,' she replies, though she trembles with fear,
For she lives all alone and no neighbours are near;
But she says to herself, when she's like to despond,
That the boys are at work in the paddock beyond.
Ah, none of her children need follow the plough,
And some have grown rich in the city ere now;
Yet she says:  `They might come when the shearing is done,
And I'll keep the ould place if it's only for one.'
When thou must home to shades of underground,
And there arriv'd, a new admired guest,
The beauteous spirits do engirt thee round,
White Iope, blithe Helen, and the rest,
To hear the stories of thy finish'd love
From that smooth tongue whose music hell can move;
Then wilt thou speak of banqueting delights,
Of masques and revels which sweet youth did make,
Of tourneys and great challenges of knights,
And all these triumphs for thy beauty's sake:
When thou hast told these honours done to thee,
Then tell, O tell, how thou didst murder me.
Sing, O Muse, in treble clef,
A little song of the A.E.F.,
And pardon me, please, if I give vent
To something akin to sentiment.
But we have our moments Over Here
When we want to cry and we want to cheer;
And the hurrah feeling will not down
When you meet a man from your own home town.
It's many a lonesome, longsome day
Since you embarked from the U.S.A.,
And you met some men--it's a great big war--
From towns that you never had known before;
And you landed here, and your rest camp mate
Was a man from some strange and distant state.
Liked him? Yes; but you wanted to see
A man from the town where you used to be.
And then you went, by design or chance,
All over the well-known map of France;
And you yearned with a yearn that grew and grew
To talk with a man from the burg you knew.
And some lugubrious morn when
Your morale is batting about .110,
"Where are you from?" and you make reply,
And the O.D. warrior says, "So am I."
The universe wears a smiling face
As you spill your talk of the old home place;
You talk of the streets, and the home town jokes,
And you find that you know each other's folks;
And you haven't any more woes at all
Ad you both decide that the world is small--
A statement adding to its renown
When you meet a man from your own home town.
You may be among the enlisted men,
You may be a Lieut. or a Major-Gen.;
Your home may be up in the Chilkoot Pass,
In Denver, Col., or in Pittsfield, Mass.;
You may have come from Chicago, Ill.,
Buffalo, Portland, or Louisville--
But there's nothing, I'm gambling, can keep you down,
When you meet a man from your own home town.
* * * * *
If you want to know why I wrote this pome,
Well . . . I've just had a talk with a guy from home.
725
Where Thou art—that—is Home—
Cashmere—or Calvary—the same—
Degree—or Shame—
I scarce esteem Location's Name—
So I may Come—
What Thou dost—is Delight—
Bondage as Play—be sweet—
Imprisonment—Content—
And Sentence—Sacrament—
Just We two—meet—
Where Thou art not—is Woe—
Tho' Bands of Spices—row—
What Thou dost not—Despair—
Tho' Gabriel—praise me—Sire—
In the city set upon slime and loam
They cry in their parliament 'Who goes home?'
And there comes no answer in arch or dome,
For none in the city of graves goes home.
Yet these shall perish and understand,
For God has pity on this great land.
Men that are men again; who goes home?
Tocsin and trumpeter! Who goes home?
For there's blood on the field and blood on the foam
And blood on the body when Man goes home.
And a voice valedictory . . . Who is for Victory?
Who is for Liberty? Who goes home?
Hopes – that soar –
like kites in wind -
above the truth –
with wishes – twisting
in their tail –
pulling at the string
of the heart –
until – soaring -
we, up there too –
looking down on present self –
from our own future –
up there too,
faith, loving-kindness?
Off the coast of California
where else
hornyhead turbot
and there's a name for a start
were found to be bisexual with
ovary tissues in their testes
the males were found congregated
around a sewage outlet
before graffiti writers
and fundamentalist preachers
develop the implications of
this newsflash
I think I'll stop
right there
SO many crosses,
so little hope, so many
puppets, praying for
some thing they dont
even believe in.where
is your devels, where are
your saints, where is your
GOD, when you fill your
body with drink, so many
crosses, so little faith,
so many puppets, waiting
for....what?
All hope lies in tomorrow
Betrayed by yesterday
For every new horizon
There is a price to pay
The piper plays his tune
Holds out a hand for gilt
The memory cries a river
The wrong side of spilt milk
All hope lies in tomorrow
Forgetting yesterday
All hope is stored in thoughts
Arranged to form a play
There’s laughter and there’s intrigue
There’s sadness and there’s pain
Yet by the final act
Laughter rules again
All hope lies in tomorrow
Aphrodite by my side
To walk a brave new world
Athena as my guide
All hope lies in tomorrow
Under Helios’s light
To trust tomorrow to Themis
Her justice and her right
My banks they are furnish'd with bees,
Whose murmur invites one to sleep;
My grottos are shaded with trees,
And my hills are white-over with sheep.
I seldom have met with a loss,
Such health do my fountains bestow;
My fountains all border'd with moss,
Where the hare-bells and violets grow.
Not a pine in my grove is there seen,
But with tendrils of woodbine is bound:
Not a beech's more beautiful green,
But a sweet-briar entwines it around.
Not my fields, in the prime of the year,
More charms than my cattle unfold;
Not a brook that is limpid and clear,
But it glitters with fishes of gold.
One would think she might like to retire
To the bow'r I have labour'd to rear;
Not a shrub that I heard her admire,
But I hasted and planted it there.
O how sudden the jessamine strove
With the lilac to render it gay!
Already it calls for my love,
To prune the wild branches away.
From the plains, from the woodlands and groves,
What strains of wild melody flow!
How the nightingales warble their loves
From thickets of roses that blow!
And when her bright form shall appear,
Each bird shall harmoniously join
In a concert so soft and so clear,
As -- she may not be fond to resign.
I have found out a gift for my fair;
I have found where the wood-pigeons breed:
But let me that plunder forbear,
She will say 'twas a barbarous deed.
For he ne'er could be true, she aver'd,
Who could rob a poor bird of its young:
And I lov'd her the more, when I heard
Such tenderness fall from her tongue.
I have heard her with sweetness unfold
How that pity was due to -- a dove:
That it ever attended the bold;
And she call'd it the sister of love.
But her words such a pleasure convey,
So much I her accents adore,
Let her speak, and whatever she say,
Methinks I should love her the more.
Can a bosom so gentle remain
Unmov'd, when her Corydon sighs!
Will a nymph that is fond of the plain,
These plains and this valley despise?
Dear regions of silence and shade!
Soft scenes of contentment and ease!
Where I could have pleasingly stray'd,
If aught, in her absence, could please.
But where does my Phyllida stray?
And where are her grots and her bow'rs?
Are the groves and the valleys as gay,
And the shepherds as gentle as ours?
The groves may perhaps be as fair,
And the face of the valleys as fine;
The swains may in manners compare,
But their love is not equal to mine.
A sunstroke sunflower yawn in the whirlwind
and a scapegoat scamper with his old wheelbarrow
which is full of manure.
The Master of the field who walks behind his alsatian dog
and the nanny is washing the baby's nappies.
The Landlady in hysterics after the childbirth.
Bees are humming in the morning glory.
Whipping boy hear the rustling of the pale sunflower
and he poured more water & manure to get her closer.
I refuse to be depressed,
'cause I'm totally obsessed,
with the feeling that I'm really lying.
It's an idea that I detest,
but once gotten off my chest,
I know I'll feel less and less like crying.
I won't yield to grim despair;
I must just grin and bear,
'cause I've other irons in the fire, frying.
If I'm burnt out or I scar,
when my words have turned to char,
it's not because this Smithy's stopped trying.
So life goes on and on,
and I know I'll carry on,
with the hope of a song in my heart.
I know I must be strong,
lest my quest to belong,
is diverted or goes wrong from the start.
By now I think you've guessed,
that life is no idle jest;
what scares us most is not just the fear of dying.
It is the panic and the stress,
of emotions long suppressed;
the narcotic of self-love and self-denying.
With the passing of the days,
I know I'll find a way,
to keep that song singing in my soul.
If my life begins to fray,
at ambition's sad dismay,
there is resource in disarray controlled.
So if you find you're not impressed,
by the things that I express,
and the knot of love between us is untying;
will you not think me a pest,
if I honestly confess,
that my life with you was truly satisfying.
Though there's no objective test,
we must know that we're possessed,
of a love that's true and real and gratifying.
And if we live our lives with zest,
and keep striving for the best,
we cannot lose unless no one is buying.
So as time begins to fade,
I'll keep the promises I made,
to press that song forever to my breast.
And as the closing act is played,
when the bill of death is paid,
my final breath will sing me to my rest.
Soar not too high,  O bird of Hope!
Because the skies are fair;
The tempest may come on apace
And overcome thee there.
When far above the mountain tops
Thou soarest, over all –
If, then, the storm should press thee back,
How great would be thy fall!
And thou wouldst lie here at my feet,
A poor and lifeless thing, -
A torn and bleeding birdling,
With limp and broken wing.
Sing not too loud, O bird of Hope!
Because the day is bright;
The sunshine cannot always last –
The morn precedes the night.
And if thy song is of the day,
Then when the day grows dim,
Forlorn and voiceless thou wouldst sit
Among the shadows grim.
Oh! I would have thee soar and sing,
But not too high, or loud,
Remembering that day meets night –
The brilliant sun the cloud.
Dare I hope to hope?
Is it safe? Is it right?
Am I hoping for nothing
But a black and empty night?
Hope should make me happy.
I should laugh, sing, and dance
Because I am hoping. Right?
Ha! Not a chance.
How is it that hope can leave me
Trembling in the darkness?
How is it that something so “good”
Should leave me feeling helpless?
Dare I hope to hope?
What difference does it make?
Fate will be fate in the end,
It will either “make or break.”
Does Fate regard my hope?
Does She listen? Or care?
Am I shooting for a star that
Simply isn’t there?
I cannot know! Oh, God
Why must I struggle with
This doubt that pulls at me
Rends me, limb from limb?
What sort of hope leaves pain
Where it should instead leave joy?
Is this hope at all? Or perhaps
Some wicked demon’s ploy?
I cannot know! Dear heaven!
How can I even begin to dare
To hope for something – anything?
Is no assurance there?
No promise? No guarantee?
I cannot stand it! I cannot!
The doubt is a plague
In my every thought.
Dare I hope to hope
In a hope that leaves me dry
And lost? How can I dare
To hope in hope? How can I?
Dare to find hope
Dare to live your dreams
Find the hope to believe.
Dare to find the heart of hope
Dare to find your destiny
Live to find the hope for love.
Dare to believe in hope
Dare to catch it before it fades away…
Dare to find hope.
Don't give up hope
Don't give up hope
There is still a whole slew of scope in hope
I know how you feel
Your predicament is unpleasant and real
Before you crumble and stumble
Like a lone wolf in your solitary struggles
I hear the sadness in your tongue
Realize that your suffering will pass
Its duration may be long
Hang in there, be strong
I know the words to your plightful song
You are not where you wish to belong
But giving up hope is forever wrong
A flower never fumbles and gives up hope
While waiting for its daily water
Hope is all to it that matters
Don't give up hope
Don't give up hope
Clutch on tight to all ropes
There is still a whole slew of scope in hope
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
So many
Different dreary  worlds,
That it’s hard to make a choice,
Hard to choose at all,
Hard to have to.
Ahh, that’s it isn’t it? Choice.
The great commanding curse
Of freedom.  It’s very source.
No Freedom without it,
Only a painful apathy,
With no worry, and no hope.
For hope is always tight with worry,
Hope and dread, did I make the right choice?
Did I choose wrongly? The stress, anxiety
Over the future, over it’s hope.
Yet, and still, there are no wrong choices,
Just fleeting, frozen moments.
Forever, and without changes,
With no way to make them.
So don’t worry,
Just choose and go, follow
Freedom’s path to the next choice,
And don’t worry,
Enjoy the hope.
I.
Beautiful Evelyn Hope is dead!
Sit and watch by her side an hour.
That is her book-shelf, this her bed;
She plucked that piece of geranium-flower,
Beginning to die too, in the glass;
Little has yet been changed, I think:
The shutters are shut, no light may pass
Save two long rays thro' the hinge's chink.
II.
Sixteen years old, when she died!
Perhaps she had scarcely heard my name;
It was not her time to love; beside,
Her life had many a hope and aim,
Duties enough and little cares,
And now was quiet, now astir,
Till God's hand beckoned unawares,---
And the sweet white brow is all of her.
III.
Is it too late then, Evelyn Hope?
What, your soul was pure and true,
The good stars met in your horoscope,
Made you of spirit, fire and dew---
And, just because I was thrice as old
And our paths in the world diverged so wide,
Each was nought to each, must I be told?
We were fellow mortals, nought beside?
IV.
No, indeed! for God above
Is great to grant, as mighty to make,
And creates the love to reward the love:
I claim you still, for my own love's sake!
Delayed it may be for more lives yet,
Through worlds I shall traverse, not a few:
Much is to learn, much to forget
Ere the time be come for taking you.
V.
But the time will come,---at last it will,
When, Evelyn Hope, what meant (I shall say)
In the lower earth, in  the  years  long  still,
That body and soul so pure and gay?
Why your hair was amber, I shall divine,
And your mouth of your own geranium's red---
And  what  you  would  do  with  me,  in   fine,
In the new life come in the old one's stead.
VI.
I have lived (I shall say) so much since then,
Given up myself so many times,
Gained me the gains of various men,
Ransacked the ages, spoiled the climes;
Yet one thing, one, in my soul's full scope,
Either I missed or itself missed me:
And I want and find you, Evelyn Hope!
What is the issue? let us see!
VII.
I loved you, Evelyn, all the while.
My heart seemed full as it could hold?
There was place and to spare for the frank young smile,
And the red young mouth, and the hair's young gold.
So, hush,---I will give you this leaf to keep:
See, I shut it inside the sweet cold hand!
There, that is our secret: go to sleep!
You will wake, and remember, and understand.
Hope is forever dreaming
Faith is forever pure
While charity weighs up its lot
So its life it can endure.
Hope is forever youthful
Faith has no greying hair
While charity is ageless
So it is forever there.
For faith and hope and charity
Are of each of us a part
The measures there between them
Are what balances our heart.
Charity it found me
Faith it held me
Hope it kept me
All of the three
Set me free
I’ve seen dark eyes
Of imminent oblivion,
I’ve felt the warm breath
Of the hounds of death
Breathing against my neck.
And it has been
A long season of recriminations
Since the days of youth
When a woman’s face
Shone like the sun.
But conflagrations of desire
No longer take me higher,
They just incinerate
My ardent dreams,
Strangle me in ropes
Of despondency.
My wounded mind
Hallucinates possibilities,
Then slides into
A darkening drift
Of pessimism,
An avalanche of fear.
All thoughts explode,
Fulminations of failure,
Tirades of defeat,
A heartbreaking wail
For a life incomplete.
In desperate times,
I know I need
A near-death experience
To receive an epiphany,
A glimpse into eternity.
If there are
Flowery fields
Of love and hope,
I need to find
Those precious blooms
Before I close my eyes
To a final sunset.
522
Had I presumed to hope—
The loss had been to Me
A Value—for the Greatness' Sake—
As Giants—gone away—
Had I presumed to gain
A Favor so remote—
The failure but confirm the Grace
In further Infinite—
'Tis failure—not of Hope—
But Confident Despair—
Advancing on Celestial Lists—
With faint—Terrestial power—
'Tis Honor—though I die—
For That no Man obtain
Till He be justified by Death—
This—is the Second Gain—
It's been eleven years,
since I first met you.
I know that the blessed,
are far and few.
I wish I saved myself
just for you.
As I write this poem,
only for you.
Something I thought,
I could never do.
I hope you accept this poem,
from me to you.
Times have seemed to change,
yet so many things remain the same.
There are so many things I have learned,
and so many pages that I have turned.
People are always changing,
trying to play the part.
Yet the only movement I felt,
is the one inside my heart.
The Gods have shined down on me,
to give me the courage to write to thee.
Yes or no, right or wrong,
my faith in us, will be forever strong.
Although my will was not enough,
to share my feelings before you left.
I respect our friendship the way it exists,
I can't help wondering if more could exist.
I think of the good times that we shared,
I never knew the burdens you bared.
I really wish I knew your pain,
I'd have done anything to take it all away.
There were so many things I wanted to say;
but here I am writing so far away.
Thousands of miles and an ocean away,
my feelings for you will always remain.
I haven't much to give,
only one life to live.
So little money and so few possessions,
a simple man with no obsessions.
For my hope carries me on,
and my faith makes me strong.
My heart and soul and love for you,
these are what I offer you.
With a soul,
as stong as you;
when I sleep,
I dream of you.
My faith and thoughts of happiness,
you're my sanity in this world of madness.
You remain in my thoughts everyday,
and I hope we will meet another day.
When the weary night is fled,
And the morning sky is red,
Then my heart doth rise and say,
`Surely she will come to-day.'
In the golden blaze of noon,
`Surely she is coming soon.'
In the twilight, `Will she come?'
Then my heart with fear is dumb.
When the night wind in the trees
Plays its mournful melodies,
Then I know my trust is vain,
And she will not come again.
Strong are thine arms, O love, & strong
Thine heart to live, and love, and long;
But thou art wed to grief and wrong:
Live, then, and long, though hope be dead!
Live on, & labour thro’ the years!
Make pictures through the mist of tears,
Of unforgotten happy fears,
That crossed the time ere hope was dead.
Draw near the place where once we stood
Amid delight’s swift-rushing flood,
And we and all the world seemed good
Nor needed hope now cold and dead.
Dream in the dawn I come to thee
Weeping for things that may not be!
Dream that thou layest lips on me!
Wake, wake to clasp hope’s body dead!
Count o’er and o’er, and one by one
The minutes of the happy sun
That while agone on kissed lips shone,
Count on, rest not, for hope is dead.
Weep, though no hair’s breadth thou shalt move
The living Earth, the heaven above
By all the bitterness of love!
Weep and cease not, now hope is dead!
Sighs rest thee not, tears bring no ease,
Life hath no joy, and Death no peace:
The years change not, though they decrease,
For hope is dead, for hope is dead.
Speak, love, I listen: far away
I bless the tremulous lips, that say,
“Mock not the afternoon of day,
Mock not the tide when hope is dead!”
I bless thee, O my love, who say’st:
“Mock not the thistle-cumbered waste;
I hold Love’s hand, and make no haste
Down the long way, now hope is dead.
With other names do we name pain,
The long years wear our hearts in vain.
Mock not our loss grown into gain,
Mock not our lost hope lying dead.
Our eyes gaze for no morning-star,
No glimmer of the dawn afar;
Full silent wayfarers we are
Since ere the noon-tide hope lay dead.
Behold with lack of happiness
The master, Love, our hearts did bless
Lest we should think of him the less:
Love dieth not, though hope is dead!”
Even as things go downhill
And life becomes hell
Hope floats
Even as the world deserts you
And friends are few
Hope floats
Even as the only thing you have
Is a loneliness that is scary
Hope floats
Even as all seems lost and
Time remains a few grains of sand
Hope floats
Even as life seems beyond complaint
And strains of joy become faint
Hope floats
There may be nothing else to do
Than survive
And yet…as the self becomes distant
From the soul
There's a voice that says
Hope floats...
Today we face the trying times
Of heartache and pain.
Many hopes and dreams are shattered,
And prayers seem to be in vain.
With the hope of peace diminishing,
The heart has no definitive song.
We've waited for an end to hostilities,
But the struggle seems so long.
Yet - there is hope for the future,
Liberty and freedom are still in command,
But God will make the ultimate decisions.
He will evaluate our worldly demands,
And he holds the future in his grasp.
Why should we despair?
He mourns and counts every tear,
And he hears and reviews every prayer.
. . . . . . . .
Hope holds to Christ the mind’s own mirror out
To take His lovely likeness more and more.
It will not well, so she would bring about
An ever brighter burnish than before
And turns to wash it from her welling eyes
And breathes the blots off all with sighs on sighs.
Her glass is blest but she as good as blind
Holds till hand aches and wonders what is there;
Her glass drinks light, she darkles down behind,
All of her glorious gainings unaware.
. . . . . . . .
I told you that she turned her mirror dim
Betweenwhiles, but she sees herself not Him.
. . . . . . . .
Live in hope,
Hope, hope and hope.
Let me say again
That words live
As young as your hope,
Be not without hope
In hours of adversity
Rightly said Nizami and
Optimistic attitude of life
And have pleasant thoughts always.
The hissing wind and the swishing sea
with a vengeance turns the wind to lee
Ragging sails, the ship is free
Seagull screams in the distance see
Distraught people in a ship at sway
Creaking stern and the ropes'll, fray
Vociferous sounds of the angry spray
To ghastly thoughts the heart a prey
Not a soul aboard that doth not pray
Rising hands against the wicked gray
O' Lord 'Save us from the swishing array'
Confusion mounting screams of dismay
Such was the scene and even yet
A man in white I cannot forget
Unaware of all the cold and wet
he sat eyes closed and face all set
He muttered to himself now and then
free from feelings of where and when
The calm of his face in darkness shown
with a majestic grandeur; he left his throne
Thus he spoke to the people aloud
'Brothers and sisters look at the cloud
The lord remembers his creation's plight
Through the crevice comes a ray of light
The rescue boats you need not fight
For yonder look the land’s in sight'
(from personal files-Vintage 1975) .
(Islamabad)
Just remember that hope goes a long way.
As long as you have a little you are still doing okay.
Everything will be alright, the sun will start to shine,
Spring brings more hope but you may just have to look harder for it sometimes.
So, do not fret and do not cry,
The warmth of the air, the blue of the sky
Will dry your tears most of the time.
Hope is a tattered flag and a dream of time.
Hope is a heartspun word, the rainbow, the shadblow in white
The evening star inviolable over the coal mines,
The shimmer of northern lights across a bitter winter night,
The blue hills beyond the smoke of the steel works,
The birds who go on singing to their mates in peace, war, peace,
The ten-cent crocus bulb blooming in a used-car salesroom,
The horseshoe over the door, the luckpiece in the pocket,
The kiss and the comforting laugh and resolve—
Hope is an echo, hope ties itself yonder, yonder.
The spring grass showing itself where least expected,
The rolling fluff of white clouds on a changeable sky,
The broadcast of strings from Japan, bells from Moscow,
Of the voice of the prime minister of Sweden carried
Across the sea in behalf of a world family of nations
And children singing chorals of the Christ child
And Bach being broadcast from Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
And tall skyscrapers practically empty of tenants
And the hands of strong men groping for handholds
And the Salvation Army singing God loves us….
I hope my family get a long like they use too
I hope God finds away to bring my brother
back from drugs
I hope my father stays in my life and don't
take off life he did before when I was a baby
I hope before I am 30 years old I be marriage
and have family like my friends do
I hope my dreams I want out of life comes true
I hope me wanting to hope is not dumb
I hope is right thing to do in life
I hope I get in to college
I hope my mom finds good guy beside
jerks
I hope who I am with doesn't hurt me
or break my heart like guys did with
my mom
I hope my brother leaves this girl that
keep him away from his family
I hope Amber will always be my best friend
I hope Rusty doesn't every leave me
I hope God helps find away for us
to be together me and Rusty
I hope my family is happy
I hope my friends are happy and thankful
for what they have in life
I hope when Jennifer gets marriager it doesn't
be life her last one ended bad
I hope everyone learns how good is to hope
and pray for things you need.
I hope everyone thankful and glad to be here
in this world.
Once in your lifetime,
You would have thought that
What am I doing with my life?
You might think that your future is blank.
You may think your career is in a crossroads.
You may think that you have made bad choices.
You may even think that life is full of shit.
But know this,
Whatever happens, happens for a reason.
You are here for a reason.
There is a purpose for your existence.
Think of this whenever you feel down, whenever you feel that that life sucks.
Everything happens for the Greater good,
Always think of this after every failure.
“HOPE IS LIFE.”
When the desperation hit
When the people cried in the streets
When everything felt at loss
Hope stayed, even though fleaing would be easier
When the eyes were full of tears.
When kids and families were torn apart
By that last desperate grasp
Hope tried
When all else gave up
When all else backed off
When people lost all they had
Hope flew
When they cried
When the world was shocked with desperation and dispair
When nothing seemed good
Hope worked
When those four planes crashed
When the buildings fell
When the lives were lost
Hope was there
Hope was only a tiny glimmer
Hope was still there
She ran to those who needed her
She worked to help
When all else failed
Hope didn't
She flew through us all
Letting us know, we still had her
We just needed to look hard enough
Hope was there
Hope remembers
'Hope' is the thing with feathers—
That perches in the soul—
And sings the tune without the words—
And never stops—at all—
And sweetest—in the Gale—is heard—
And sore must be the storm—
That could abash the little Bird
That kept so many warm—
I've heard it in the chillest land—
And on the strangest Sea—
Yet, never, in Extremity,
It asked a crumb—of Me.
Hope Was Hoping
That Hopefully
It would be
Able to Fulfil
The Hopes Of
The Many Hopeful
Humans But
Hope Is What Still keeps
The Hope Going.
Hope is an expectation or
Desire for certain event,
It relates to persons, things
Or to circumstances it is inherent.
Not only men but also animal
And birds, reptiles have hope,
All live on hope or hope against hope
Hopeless persons have no scope.
Men live in hope and
In hope they dream,
To dream many lovely things
Is too dream of a team.
Hope is the reason of attachment
And it is the art,
It is too reason of detachment
And it is the heart.
Maximum people hope to get
Perishable things they want,
But these are such things
Those bring men daunt.
Hope to lead valuable life
And value in life is the best,
We must hope peace and bless of God
There actually are the zests.
The Tree of Knowledge we in Eden prov'd;
The Tree of Life was thence to Heav'n remov'd:
Hope is the growth of Earth, the only Plant,
Which either Heav'n, or Paradise cou'd want.
Hell knows it not, to Us alone confin'd,
And Cordial only to the Human Mind.
Receive it then, t'expel these mortal Cares,
Nor wave a Med'cine, which thy God prepares.
The heart is a womb where hope is born
It is conceived in the mind
Believed to be blind
Hope is a quest to be free
An open door or key
-To a foreign place
A race that can be won
A belief in something strong
In things unseen or unheard
Hope sounds absurd
But we can live on hope and dreams
On schemes built on itself
Hope and dreams are our wealth!
Hope is a nice word,
people use it a lot.
Hope has a deep meaning
which should not be forgot.
Hope to some means,
life or death.
Hope to others,
is to win a bet.
To all those people,
that do not need Hope.
I hope this sinks in,
my message about Hope.
Hope was but a timid friend;
She sat without the grated den,
Watching how my fate would tend,
Even as selfish-hearted men.
She was cruel in her fear;
Through the bars, one dreary day,
I looked out to see her there,
And she turned her face away!
Like a false guard, false watch keeping,
Still, in strife, she whispered peace;
She would sing while I was weeping;
If I listened, she would cease.
False she was, and unrelenting;
When my last joys strewed the ground,
Even Sorrow saw, repenting,
Those sad relics scattered round;
Hope, whose whisper would have given
Balm to all my frenzied pain,
Stretched her wings, and soared to heaven,
Went, and ne'er returned again!
AS I LOOK INTO THE FUTURE,
I HOPE FOR PEACE.
PEACE OF MIND
PEACE OF MAN
PEACE OF THE SPIRIT.
I HOPE FOR MORE LOVE OF GOD,
FOR IN THIS LIES THE HOPE OF MANKIND.
GOD IS LOVE
GOD IS EVERYTHING!
LIFE IS GOD'S GIFT TO MAN.
HOPE IS THE WANTING OF A BETTER FUTURE
OF A RICHER MEANING OF WHAT LOVE IS ALL
ABOUT.
I NEED YOU
YOU NEED ME
OUR NEED FOR EACH OTHER.
CHILDREN NEED HOPE
TO FEEL THERE IS A BETTER LIFE
FOR NOW, AND FOR THEIR FUTURE.
WE NEED HOPE TO SURVIVE
THE BLOWS OF LIFE!
We speak with the lip, and we dream in the soul,
Of some better and fairer day;
And our days, the meanwhile, to that golden goal
Are gliding and sliding away.
Now the world becomes old, now again it is young,
But "The better" 's forever the word on the tongue.
At the threshold of life hope leads us in--
Hope plays round the mirthful boy;
Though the best of its charms may with youth begin,
Yet for age it reserves its toy.
I've heard hopes enough,
Enough to keep you alive,
They say that hopes a joyous feeling,
Hope that they''ll come back,
Hope they'll see their mistake,
But hope hurts more than the the deepest betrayal,
It keeps you awake at night,
With dreams that tomorow,
Well, that tomorrow everything will go back,
Back to how it was,
Back to love and happiness,
And then in the morning when nothings changed,
When your all alone,
Wondering why,
Then you know the truth of hope,
That hope gives you sleepless nights,
The pain thats throbbing in your chest,
The knowledge that for all your want,
It will never be the same,
And that hope is the biggest betrayal.
Im not crazy
Im not dreaming
I hope
hope hope hope
There has to be a way
Not the best way but a least a way
We have to run out of this place
We have to free ourselves from this masacre
Start from scratch from this disaster
We have to get out with the hope we have
Hope Hope Hope Hope
your all I got
What is hope, ask a bee in cold winter days,
she hangs around the pruned rose bushes,
with the hope that someday the spring will come,
and the flowers will bloom again in the garden.
What is hope, ask the blue bird pair in early spring,
they work diligently to bring every twig and grass,
to build their nest in the corner nook of my house,
I see the hope in the eyes of this lovely pair,
They are dreaming of a happy home for their family.
What is hope,  ask a lonesome soul,
When the uncertainties linger around in mind,
hope is the only refuge to calm our fears,
When the loneliness sends one in depression,
the hope of a companionship overshadows the despair.
What is hope, ask a human being,
our life is a sand castle of hope on a sandy beach,
with the lingering fear of drowning in occasional high tide,
our destiny, our future, and our own survival,
hangs around the magical hope, the hope that is the eternal inspiration.
Hope
Sigh not for there is hope
Doubt not because it is there
Just seek it
Let thy eye wander far
Just touch it
Let thy hands lay softly
Just live it
Let thy heart fill the cold
And conquer
Laugh in joy not in cruelness
Cry always but not in pain
Sing tunes for the far
And Dance for the near
Wonder not
Because hope never dies
SEE through yon cloud that rolls in wrath,
One little star benignant peep,
To light along their trackless path
The wanderers of the stormy deep.
And thus, oh Hope! thy lovely form
In sorrow's gloomy night shall be
The sun that looks through cloud and storm
Upon a dark and moonless sea.
When heaven is all serene and fair,
Full many a brighter gem we meet;
'Tis when the tempest hovers there,
Thy beam is most divinely sweet.
The rainbow, when the sun declines,
Like faithless friend will disappear;
Thy light, dear star! more brightly shines
When all is wail and weeping here.
And though Aurora's stealing beam
May wake a morning of delight,
'Tis only thy consoling beam
Will smile amid affliction's night.
Hope is the sweet, sweet scent
of flowers in the morning
Hope is the cool gentle breeze
on a warm summer's day
Hope is the knowledge of stability
from a son in mourning
Hope is the bright shining light
keeping darkness at bay
Hope is the calming warmth
during a cold winter
Hope is the determination
of an athelete on the track
Hope is the potential
of a newborn baby
Hope is the love
between you and me
Hope springs eternal
All treasures of the earth and opulent seas,
Metals and odorous woods and cunning gold,
Fowls of the air and furry beasts untold,
Vineyards and harvest fields and fruitful trees
Nature gave unto Man; and last her keys
Vouched passage to her secret ways of old
Whence knowledge should be wrung, nay power to mould
Out of the rough, his occult destinies.
But tired of these he craved a wider scope:
Then fair as Pallas from the brain of Jove
From his deep wish there sprang, full-armed, to cope
With all life's ills, even very death in love,
The only thing man never wearies of--
His own creation--visionary Hope.
Unrealized directions
Unexpressed dreams
Untested wishes
Hope is the future
Undefinable
Unquantifiable
Un pragmatic
Hope is an enigma
Conjuring new reality
Subduing emotion
Distorting thought
Hope is but a magician
(Poems with a Pulse, Self-Mentor Publishing Inc.,2007)
Hope is what I am made of every day
I hope
I hope for
love,
peace
and freedom.
So if things go wrong
I hope for better....
I hope
Keep hope in your heart,
Keep it there till there's more.
More of what many should have, but are just to afraid to hold.
Hope is like a crystal, rare precious & bold.
Hope is what makes us humans, hope is whats in our souls.
Each day that comes & goes.
Each night that passes by is just another step for our hopes to come alive.
We see what's in right and wrong.
We see what's in bad and good.
We see what other's and most don't see.
What beauty and wonder hope can hold.
The spirit killeth, but the letter giveth life.
The week is dealt out like a hand
That children pick up card by card.
One keeps getting the same hand.
One keeps getting the same card.
But twice a day -- except on Saturday --
The wheel stops, there is a crack in Time:
With a hiss of soles, a rattle of tin,
My own gray Daemon pauses on the stair,
My own bald Fortune lifts me by the hair.
Woe's me! woe's me! In Folly's mailbox
Still laughs the postcard, Hope:
Your uncle in Australia
Has died and you are Pope,
For many a soul has entertained
A Mailman unawares --
And as you cry, Impossible,
A step is on the stairs.
One keeps getting the same dream
Delayed, marked "Payment Due,"
The bill that one has paid
Delayed, marked "Payment Due" --
Twice a day, in rotting mailbox,
The white grubs are new:
And Faith, once more, is mine
Faithfully, but Charity
Writes hopefully about a new
Asylum -- but Hope is as good as new.
Woe's me! woe's me! In Folly's mailbox
Still laughs the postcard, Hope:
Your uncle in Australia
Has died and you are Pope,
For many a soul has entertained
A mailman unawares --
And as you cry, Impossible,
A step is on the stairs.
I'm writing you this poem,
For you being you,
I'm writing you this poem,
Because I wanted to.
I'm writing you this poem,
Cause I thought of you,
I'm writing you this poem,
For the wonderful things you do.
You have taught me right from wrong,
You taught me how to love and praise,
You taught me how to be hopeful,
And now to be amazed.
Now it's my turn,
to be like you,
To follow God,
and look up to.
Keep hope in your heart,
Keep it there till there's more.
More of what many should have, but are just to afraid to hold.
Hope is like a crystal, rare precious & bold.
Hope is what makes us humans, hope is whats in our souls.
Each day that comes & goes.
Each night that passes by is just another step for our hopes to come alive.
We see what's in right and wrong.
We see what's in bad and good.
We see what other's and most don't see.
What beauty and wonder hope can hold.
Rachel Fogle
Hope swirls around the little boy's head
Jumping on the bed Christmas morning
Giddy and laughing
Hope carries him on fairy wings
Down the stairs to the den at six a.m.
And giggles as he whispers
"You know it's gonna be there."
Hope fills his eyes with wonder
As he surveys the packages
As he selects the first one
As he tears through
The paper
And the ribbon
And the tissue
Hope squeals with eagerness
And tells the little boy that he
Will find his new train
And when the little boy finds
A sweater instead
Hope never lets up
"Just open the next one,
You know it's gonna be there."
And he surveys the packages
And he selects the next one
And he tears through
The paper
And the ribbon
And the tissue
Hope reassures with kindness
And tells the little boy that this time he
Will find his new train
And when the little boy finds
A book instead
Hope never lets up
"Just open the next one,
You know it's gonna be there."
An on and on it goes
Until there are no packages left
And the floor is littered with
Empty boxes
And hope never says another word
While he sneaks out the window
Smiling from ear to ear
Leaving the little boy alone to answer
The knock at the door
Hope swirls around the young man's head
Before sitting in the seat beside him
Giddy and laughing
Hope carries him on fiery hooves
Down the road to the party at eight p.m.
And giggles as he whispers
"You know they're gonna be there."
Hope fills his eyes with wonder
As he surveys the room
As he greets the first one
As he tears through
The awkwardness
And the doubt
And the tension
Hope squeals with eagerness
And tells the young man that he
Will find his new friends
And when the young man finds
A closed society instead
Hope never lets up
"Just greet the next one,
You know they're gonna be there."
And he surveys the room
And he greets the next one
And he tears through
The awkwardness
And the doubt
And the tension
Hope reassures with kindness
And tells the young man that this time he
Will find his new friends
And when the young man finds
Indifference instead
Hope never lets up
"Just greet the next one,
You know they're gonna be there."
An on and on it goes
Until there are no people left
And the floor is littered with
Empty bottles and cans
And hope never says another word
While he sneaks out the window
Smiling from ear to ear
Leaving the young man alone to answer
The knock at the door
Hope swirls around the husband's head
Lying in the bed beside him
Giddy and laughing
Hope carries him on a magic carpet
Across the gap in the bed to the arms of his wife at ten p.m.
And giggles as he whispers
"You know she's gonna be there."
Hope fills his eyes with wonder
As he surveys her face
As he reaches to touch
As he tears through
The guilt
And the anger
And the apprehension
Hope squeals with eagerness
And tells the husband that he
Will find his comfort and love
And when he finds
Rejection instead
Hope never lets up
"Just reach out again,
You know she's gonna be there."
And he surveys her face
And he reaches to touch
And he tears through
The guilt
And the anger
And the apprehension
Hope reassures with kindness
And tells the husband that this time he
Will find his comfort and love
And when the husband finds
Cruelty instead
Hope never lets up
"Just reach out again,
You know she's gonna be there."
An on and on it goes
Until there are no people left
And the floor is littered with
Years and distant memories
And hope never says another word
While he sneaks out the window
Smiling from ear to ear
Leaving the husband alone to answer
The knock at the door
Hope swirls around the son's head
Walking arm and arm down the cold sanitary corridor
Warm and caring
Hope carries him on angel's wings
Down the hall to the semi-private room
And reassures as he whispers
"You know he's gonna be OK."
Hope fills his eyes with wonder
As he surveys the bed and the wheelchair
As he selects his first words
As he tears through
The jargon
And the reports
And the sadness
Hope squeals with eagerness
And tells the son that he
Will find his father well
And when the son finds
Illness instead
Hope never lets up
"Just come another day,
You know he's gonna be OK."
And he surveys the bed and the wheelchair
And he selects the next one
And he tears through
The jargon
And the reports
Hope reassures with kindness
And tells the son that this time he
Will find his father well
And when the son finds
A stroke instead
Hope never lets up
"Just come one more time,
You know he's gonna be OK."
An on and on it goes
Until there is no life left
And the floor is littered with
Tissues and rubber gloves
And hope never says another word
While he sneaks out the window
Smiling from ear to ear
Leaving the son alone to answer
The knock at the door
And the little boy
And the young man
And the husband
And the son
Go to the door
Looking to see if hope has come back
And pain walks in
And pain doesn't swirl
And pain doesn't giggle
And pain doesn't jump on the bed
And pain doesn't hold his hand
With giddy excitement or warm assurances
Pain just makes his intentions known
And tells them to wake up
There never was a train
And the friends would only let you down
And love is conditional
And your Father is dying
And after making his announcements
Pain doesn't sneak through the window
Grinning from ear to ear
He walks into the kitchen and
Makes a sandwich
And says, "You should get to know me.
I'm gonna be here for a while."
And pain doesn't whisper
And pain doesn't tempt them
To keep looking, and greeting and reaching out
He just sits there eating his sandwich
And asking for a glass of milk
And perhaps a cookie
If it's not too much trouble
And pain doesn't carry them
Anywhere on anything
He just follows them around
Never more than a few paces back
And pain reminds them
That he's gonna be there
When they wake up
And when they go to sleep
And if they want him to leave
They're gonna have to ask him to go
And they better mean it
Because if they don't
He'll be back
And he'll knock on that door
As soon as hope sneaks out
The window
And some will have their lines
dying in the clasped palms
some unities would eventually unite
at Eternity
Inspired by Deane's Poem
I hope your happy with your life
I hope your happy with your wife
I hope you see what you have done
I hope you see that this is all wrong
I hope you realise that your not perfect
I hope you see that money's not worth it
I hope you realise that family comes first
I hope you see that my smile was rehearsed
I hope you see that your tearing me apart
I hope you someday grow a heart
I hope someday I will want to see you
I hope someday I wont have to see you
I hope you suffer, but I dont want that
I hope you die, but I dont mean that
I hope someday your 'love' will be real
I hope someday you will 'feel'
I hope you realise that money cant heal
I hope someday you'll feel, what I feel
I hope that before you die
I hope to tell you, I wont cry
I hoped you would be a good dad
I hoped you wouldnt make me mad
But all my hopes from before are gone
just like the love you had for their mom
I hope that I see you one last time
I hope I get to tell you this:
'I wish I never knew you
because of you....I wish I didnt exist....'
I hope I hope
You will come
You will come to me
To take me.
I hope I hope
I get success
As I am non-envious
As I am equipoise.
I hope I hope
Your mercy is here
And I feel happy
With You.
I hope I hope I will
Enjoy real peace here at this time.
I hope
That a friend in need
Is a freind indeed
And i hope
That the skys stay blue
And my friends
Are the same friends that i knew
And i hope
That this earth is still round
And that i will be found
And i hope
That my dreams are so clear
And when i wake up my eyes have no tears
And i hope
That ur hand is in mine
And with love theirs no time
And i hope
That i will survive
A broken heart this time
And i hope
And i hope
I hope you surf the waves in form the ocean,
Big and small.
I hope you watch the sunset,
From a mountain straight and tall.
I hope you can sing a song to all the angles,
Loud and clear.
I hope you will try new things,
Never giving into fears.
I hope you fall in love,
With one who makes your world go around.
I hope that if you fall out,
Your feet will stay on the ground.
I hope that you can understand,
That true love waits for you.
That you may have to wait a while,
But when it comes it will be true.
I hope you find a rainbow,
And realize it was worth the rain.
I hope through you journey,
You will learn to balance smile with pain.
I hope that you realize,
Life isn't always on your side.
I hope you know when hope is lost,
In me you can confined.
I hope that your glowing smile,
Brings someone out of gloom.
I hope you taste your life,
With more than just a spoon.
I hope that when you are lost,
You are also one to find.
And I hope that you hand,
Never grows too big from mine.
I hope watch the stars shoot by,
Upon a grassy hill.
I hope you know that I love you,
Always have and always will.
If you only care about the ones
within your small arms reach
there's so much you will never know
and I could never teach.
Life will be your teacher
you'll see things we have known.
If closely you will listen
you'll never be alone.
But, if you choose to focus
on you and only yours
so much joy will be kept from you
through simple unlocked doors.
I hope you never need a stranger
someone you've never met
cause you have to remember...
what you give is what you get.
1 I am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath.
2 He hath led me, and brought me into darkness, but not into light.
3 Surely against me is he turned;
he turneth his hand against me all the day.
4 My flesh and my skin hath he made old;
he hath broken my bones.
5 He hath builded against me,
and compassed me with gall and travail.
6 He hath set me in dark places,
as they that be dead of old.
7 He hath hedged me about, that I cannot get out:
he hath made my chain heavy.
8 Also when I cry and shout,
he shutteth out my prayer.
9 He hath inclosed my ways with hewn stone;
he hath made my paths crooked.
10 He was unto me as a bear lying in wait,
and as a lion in secret places.
11 He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces:
he hath made me desolate.
12 He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.
13 He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my reins.
14 I was a derision to all my people;
and their song all the day.
15 He hath filled me with bitterness,
he hath made me drunken with wormwood.
16 He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones,
he hath covered me with ashes.
17 And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace:
I forgat prosperity.
18 And I said, My strength and my hope is perished from the LORD:
19 remembering mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall.
20 My soul hath them still in remembrance, and is humbled in me.
21 This I recall to my mind,
therefore have I hope.
22 It is of the LORD's mercies that we are not consumed,
because his compassions fail not.
23 They are new every morning:
great is thy faithfulness.
24 The LORD is my portion, saith my soul;
therefore will I hope in him.
25 The LORD is good unto them that wait for him,
to the soul that seeketh him.
26 It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the LORD.
27 It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.
28 He sitteth alone and keepeth silence,
because he hath borne it upon him.
29 He putteth his mouth in the dust;
if so be there may be hope.
30 He giveth his cheek to him that smiteth him:
he is filled full with reproach.
31 For the Lord will not cast off for ever:
32 but though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion
according to the multitude of his mercies.
33 For he doth not afflict willingly,
nor grieve the children of men.
34 To crush under his feet all the prisoners of the earth,
35 to turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most High,
36 to subvert a man in his cause,
the Lord approveth not.
37 Who is he that saith, and it cometh to pass,
when the Lord commandeth it not?
38 Out of the mouth of the Most High proceedeth not evil and good?
39 Wherefore doth a living man complain,
a man for the punishment of his sins?
40 Let us search and try our ways,
and turn again to the LORD.
41 Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the heavens.
42 We have transgressed and have rebelled:
thou hast not pardoned.
43 Thou hast covered with anger, and persecuted us:
thou hast slain, thou hast not pitied.
44 Thou hast covered thyself with a cloud,
that our prayer should not pass through.
45 Thou hast made us as the offscouring and refuse in the midst of the people.
46 All our enemies have opened their mouths against us.
47 Fear and a snare is come upon us, desolation and destruction.
48 Mine eye runneth down with rivers of water
for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
49 Mine eye trickleth down, and ceaseth not, without any intermission,
50 till the LORD look down, and behold from heaven.
51 Mine eye affecteth mine heart,
because of all the daughters of my city.
52 Mine enemies chased me sore,
like a bird, without cause.
53 They have cut off my life in the dungeon,
and cast a stone upon me.
54 Waters flowed over mine head;
then I said, I am cut off.
55 I called upon thy name, O LORD,
out of the low dungeon.
56 Thou hast heard my voice:
hide not thine ear at my breathing, at my cry.
57 Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee:
thou saidst, Fear not.
58 O Lord, thou hast pleaded the causes of my soul;
thou hast redeemed my life.
59 O LORD, thou hast seen my wrong:
judge thou my cause.
60 Thou hast seen all their vengeance and all their imaginations against me.
61 Thou hast heard their reproach, O LORD,
and all their imaginations against me;
62 the lips of those that rose up against me,
and their device against me all the day.
63 Behold their sitting down, and their rising up;
I am their music.
64 Render unto them a recompense, O LORD,
according to the work of their hands.
65 Give them sorrow of heart, thy curse unto them.
66 Persecute and destroy them in anger from under the heavens of the LORD.
I was a grovelling creature once,
And basely cleaved to earth:
I wanted spirit to renounce
The clod that gave me birth.
But God hath breathed upon a worm,
And sent me from above
Wings such as clothe an angel's form,
The wings of joy and love.
With these to Pisgah's top I fly
And there delighted stand,
To view, beneath a shining sky,
The spacious promised land.
The Lord of all the vast domain
Has promised it to me,
The length and breadth of all the plain
As far as faith can see.
How glorious is my privilege!
To Thee for help I call;
I stand upon a mountain's edge,
O save me, lest I fall!
Though much exalted in the Lord,
My strength is not my own;
Then let me tremble at His word,
And none shall cast me down.
Love is one identifying mark that sets Believers and others apart.
Men will know us from others when we have love one for another.
Love covers a multitude of sin, when you have Christ’s love within.
It was Christ’s love on the cross that covered the sins of the lost.
No greater love to comprehend than giving one’s life for a friend.
In His love, God did condescend, saving sinners like us, my friend.
We display the love of Christ, when we become a living sacrifice.
It’s a reasonable service to Him; As His Love washed away our sin.
If in your life you give God His place, He will then fill you with faith.
This Faith centers upon Him; as Christ turns you from a life of sin.
Faith becomes your foundation, the moment you receive Salvation.
Friend in your newly found Faith, you will be led by God’s Grace.
And friend your Faith is assured, as you put your Hope in The Lord,
Not in your life or other men but Hope in the One who God did send.
For Christ is The Hope of all men, He is The Beginning and The End,
As Christ is The Hope of certainty, that goes on well into Eternity.
My friend, Faith, Hope and Love, they are all gifts from God up above,
And if you glean from up above, you will see that the greatest is Love.
God’s Love produces in us a Faith that helps us point to God’s Grace.
Grace appeared to all then, and Christ remains The Hope of all men.
(Copyright ©12/2004)
Love without hope, as when the young bird-catcher
Swept off his tall hat to the Squire's own daughter,
So let the imprisoned larks escape and fly
Singing about her head, as she rode by.
Grey street corner
A frozen room
Lonely bed
A dying moon
Litter swept streets
And templed stars
Blurred rising sun
Hits burnt out cars.
Hate scrawled text
On bricked in walls
From cancered branch
A last leaf falls
The knife drawn streets
Barred with shops,
The downward wound
That never stops.
A Frostbitten tree
A pock marked road.
First morning truck
With a heavy load.
Gun ruled streets
Of bricks and knives
Discarded dreams
And shattered lives.
A world of pain
A world of snow
Nowhere to leave
No place to go
With no hope
To a world forlorn
No route to life
A child is born
Now let no charitable hope
Confuse my mind with images
Of eagle and of antelope:
I am by nature none of these.
I was, being human, born alone;
I am, being woman, hard beset;
I live by squeezing from a stone
What little nourishment I get.
In masks outrageous and austere
The years go by in single file;
But none has merited my fear,
And none has quite escaped my smile.
Oh, they have robbed me of the hope
My spirit held so dear;
They will not let me hear that voice
My soul delights to hear.
They will not let me see that face
I so delight to see;
And they have taken all thy smiles,
And all thy love from me.
Well, let them seize on all they can: --
One treasure still is mine, --
A heart that loves to think on thee,
And feels the worth of thine.
Switch off the TV, stop all sounds
Shut down the comp, turn off the lights
Let no one come calling
When I am alone.
Thoughts on the death row
Memories wheezing
like a worn away mono.
Emptiness is nothing
but a burnt away log
in the forest of impossibilities.
I didn’t hear you then,
I wouldn’t see you now
You are just an x-ray sheet
of soul painted in black.
You call me an escapist,
I only outran your lies.
I drank your tears
Cups of poison steeped in shame.
You are nothing but an effigy
Even ghosts fear to enter.
Come out of your own shadow
I ask you to face the mirror
Your image is nothing but pleasure
etched in horror.
Fade away into insignificance.
Please let me be me.
I can get real
With the vastness of time.
Hope
Hope and Faith go hand in hand.
Hope for the future.
Hope leads to a brighter future.
Hope for riches
Life would be different without hope.
The power of hope makes us hold on.
In the worst of times hope is there.
Hope fuels our courage.
It makes hearts stronger.
Hope doesn't just give up on us.
Hope is like faith one must have both.
Angel of hope come to me
Mend my heart with golden thread
Weave your healing all around
In and out through my soul
Patches of love to cover the void
Made from the finest in the land
Tenderly spin me a new dream
One of love and hope in between
Cradle my heart
In finest silk
Softly and sensual to the touch
But strong for many years of wear
Show me with pride
Give me to one who will cherish
A slightly used but still useful heart
One that will keep them warm with love forever more
SINCE thou hast given me this good hope, O God,
That while my footsteps tread the flowery sod
And the great woods embower me, and white dawn
And purple even sweetly lead me on
From day to day, and night to night, O God,
My life shall no wise miss the light of love;
But ever climbing, climb above
Man's one poor star, man's supine lands,
Into the azure steadfastness of death,
My life shall no wise lack the light of love,
My hands not lack the loving touch of hands;
But day by day, while yet I draw my breath,
And day by day, unto my last of years,
I shall be one that has a perfect friend.
Her heart shall taste my laughter and my tears,
And her kind eyes shall lead me to the end.
O sweet To-morrow! -
After to-day
There will away
This sense of sorrow.
Then let us borrow
Hope, for a gleaming
Soon will be streaming,
Dimmed by no gray -
No gray!
While the winds wing us
Sighs from The Gone,
Nearer to dawn
Minute-beats bring us;
When there will sing us
Larks of a glory
Waiting our story
Further anon -
Anon!
Doff the black token,
Don the red shoon,
Right and retune
Viol-strings broken;
Null the words spoken
In speeches of rueing,
The night cloud is hueing,
To-morrow shines soon -
Shines soon!
There is a faint Rainbow in the night's Sky;
The scorching-Summer has not had mid-show'rs;
The air is hot and sultry, very dry;
The trees have scarcely any leaves or flow'rs.
In Life, things turn unbearable, so oft;
Our patience gets outlasted to its brink;
Who will say words that soothen every heart?
Our sinful souls thirst for a graceful drink.
Yet, miracles will happen although late;
The God of Love and kindness watches us;
There is nothing called destiny or fate;
God gives the tolerance for every stress.
So, wait with patience for times better , Man;
For things happen according to God's plan.
Cherish you then the hope I shall forget
At length, my lord, Pieria?—put away
For your so passing sake, this mouth of clay
These mortal bones against my body set,
For all the puny fever and frail sweat
Of human love,—renounce for these, I say,
The Singing Mountain's memory, and betray
The silent lyre that hangs upon me yet?
Ah, but indeed, some day shall you awake,
Rather, from dreams of me, that at your side
So many nights, a lover and a bride,
But stern in my soul's chastity, have lain,
To walk the world forever for my sake,
And in each chamber find me gone again!
O, ever skilled to wear the form we love!
To bid the shapes of fear and grief depart;
Come, gentle Hope! with one gay smile remove
The lasting sadness of an aching heart.
Thy voice, benign Enchantress! let me hear;
Say that for me some pleasures yet shall bloom,--
That Fancy's radiance, Friendship's precious tear,
Shall soften, or shall chase, misfortune's gloom.
But come not glowing in the dazzling ray,
Which once with dear illusions charm'd my eye,--
O! strew no more, sweet flatterer! on my way
The flowers I fondly thought too bright to die;
Visions less fair will soothe my pensive breast,
That asks not happiness, but longs for rest!
A girl of beauty, shy and innocent!
She liked to stay aloof in her own world;
She read a lot of books while in convent:
Stood first in school in every exam held!
She had few friends and stayed away from boys!
Her dress was neat although simple and cheap!
She sang some songs alone in high-pitched voice;
She prayed a lot and in her heart did weep?
My elder sister, lovely, sweet and nice,
She joined Health Service as a Government Doc;
'One blunder in her life proved her unwise! '
She serves the sick and poor by hearty talk!
Did God ignore her desires in life?
Lord, save her soul and keep her safe ’midst strife!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-8-2006
Fondly dedicated to my belov’d, elder sister,
Dr. A. Mary Sugagemma M.D., Cbe
Delusive Hope! more transient than the ray
That leads pale twilight to her dusky bed,
O'er woodland glen, or breezy mountain's head,
Ling'ring to catch the parting sigh of day.
Hence with thy visionary charms, away!
Nor o'er my path the flow'rs of fancy spread;
Thy airy dreams on peaceful pillows shed,
And weave for thoughtless brows, a garland gay.
Farewell low vallies; dizzy cliffs, farewell!
Small vagrant rills that murmur as ye flow:
Dark bosom'd labyrinth and thorny dell;
The task be mine all pleasures to forego;
To hide, where meditation loves to dwell,
And feed my soul, with luxury of woe!
False hope prolongs my ever certain grief,
Trait'rous to me and faithful to my love;
A thousand times it promis'd me relief,
Yet never any true effect I prove.
Oft when I find in her no truth at all,
I banish her and blame her treachery;
Yet soon again I must her back recall,
As one that dies without her company.
Thus often as I chase my hope from me,
Straight way she hastes her unto Delia's eyes;
Fed with some pleasing look there shall she be,
And so sent back, and thus my fortune lies.
Looks feed my Hope, Hope fosters me in vain;
Hopes are unsure, when certain is my pain.
I believe that horses can heal,
I believe that their hearts feel all that we feel,
I believe that the joy from riding is real,
I believe that horses really can heal.
I see children riding and smiling with joy,
I see happy healthy girls and boys,
I see hope for life and wonder renewed,
I see love for the children coming to you.
I see dreams for the kids, who once were lost,
I see helping hands, no matter the cost,
I see friends for kids, who once were tossed,
I see children laughing and no longer lost.
I do believe that horses can heal,
I believe that horses make recovery real,
I believe being sober is a much better deal,
I really believe that horses can heal.
And I know that this land, its buildings and stones,
Insures that our children are never alone,
Insures that our horses and children are one,
Insures that their lives will finally be won.
Yes I do believe that horses can heal.
That recovery hope and dreams are real,
That God and love can make a child whole,
That all of this is the Stallions Hope role.
I’m searching the expansive, azure sky
For a woman’s anodyne brown eyes
That escaped from her face
To watch this place,
Keep my heartbeats and breaths in view,
Saying enlightened prayers
Into the compassionate air
Of God’s loving universe.
Everything is going to work
And ease the hurt
From a thousand wounds
Inflicted by yesterday’s knife.
The future is a healing balm
And a good luck charm
Against the darkness and disaster
Still looming in childhood
Gloomy clouds and unhappy nightmares.
"Delicta juventutis et ignorantius ejus, quoesumus ne memineris, Domine."
I left, to earth, a little maiden fair,
With locks of gold, and eyes that shamed the light;
I prayed that God might have her in His care
And sight.
Earth's love was false; her voice, a siren's song;
(Sweet mother-earth was but a lying name)
The path she showed was but the path of wrong
And shame.
"Cast her not out!" I cry.  God's kind words come --
"Her future is with Me, as was her past;
It shall be My good will to bring her home
At last."
Though I have watched so many mourners weep
O'er the real dead, in dull earth laid asleep—
Those dead seemed but the shadows of my days
That passed and left me in the sun's bright rays.
Now though you go on smiling in the sun
Our love is slain, and love and you were one.
You are the first, you I have known so long,
Whose death was deadly, a tremendous wrong.
Therefore I seek the faith that sets it right
Amid the lilies and the candle-light.
I think on Heaven, for in that air so dear
We two may meet, confused and parted here.
Ah, when man's dearest dies,'tis then he goes
To that old balm that heals the centuries' woes.
Then Christ's wild cry in all the streets is rife:—
"I am the Resurrection and the Life."
Is there another world for this frail dust
To warm with life and be itself again?
Something about me daily speaks there must,
And why should instinct nourish hopes in vain?
'Tis nature's prophesy that such will be,
And everything seems struggling to explain
The close sealed volume of its mystery.
Time wandering onward keeps its usual pace
As seeming anxious of eternity,
To meet that calm and find a resting place.
E'en the small violet feels a future power
And waits each year renewing blooms to bring,
And surely man is no inferior flower
To die unworthy of a second spring?
Endless dark - or so it seems,
life is shattered, with all our dreams
of joy and hope, the fading light,
and darkness, darkness for all in sight.
No words can speak of pain that's borne,
or fears unfounded, the sharpest thorn,
deserted mind, with heart and soul,
the wish of death, the bell will toll.
A mind of riddles, flesh we scorn,
and hope for day, the light of dawn.
The night is long, the darkness set,
the hope of morn, existing yet?
But morn will be, and dark will fade,
the light of hope, the desert shade,
the winter's comfort, summer's breeze,
as blooms of spring, the sun appears,
a welcome friend, the silence broke,
my soul returns, my demons choke,
faith and hope I once more find,
in shadows of my heart and mind.
Reason warped by darkness' might,
arights in friendship's glorious light,
survival comes from God's own power,
endurance through my darkest hour.
20/02/02
PART I (excerpt)
...
Where barbarous hordes on Scythian mountains roam,
Truth, Mercy, Freedom, yet shall find a home;
Where'er degraded Nature bleeds and pines,
From Guinea's coast to Sibir's dreary mines,
Truth shall pervade the unfathomed darkness there,
And light the dreadful features of despair.
Hark! the stern captive spurns his heavy load,
And asks the image back that Heaven bestowed.
Fierce in his eye the fire of valour burns,
And, as the slave departs, the man returns.
Oh! sacred Truth! thy triumph ceased awhile,
And Hope, thy sister, ceased with thee to smile,
When leagued Oppression poured to Northern wars
Her whiskered pandoors and her fierce hussars,
Waved her dread standard to the breeze of morn,
Pealed her loud drum, and twanged her trumpet horn;
Tumultuous horror brooded o'er her van,
Presaging wrath to Poland--and to man!
Warsaw's last champion from her height surveyed
Wide o'er the fields, a waste of ruin laid;
"Oh! Heaven!" he cried, "my bleeding country save!
Is there no hand on high to shield the brave?
Yet, though destruction sweep these lovely plains,
Rise, fellow men! our country yet remains!
By that dread name we wave the sword on high,
And swear for her to live!--with her to die!"
He said, and on the rampart-heights arrayed
His trusty warriors, few but undismayed;
Firm-paced and slow, a horrid front they form,
Still as the breeze, but dreadful as the storm;
Low murmuring sounds along their banners fly,
Revenge, or death,--the watch-word and reply;
Then pealed the notes, omnipotent to charm,
And the loud tocsin tolled their last alarm!
In vain, alas! in vain, ye gallant few!
From rank to rank your volleyed thunder flew;
Oh, bloodiest picture in the book of Time,
Sarmatia fell, unwept, without a crime;
Found not a generous friend, a pitying foe,
Strength in her arms, nor mercy in her woe!
Dropped from her nerveless grasp the shattered spear,
Closed her bright eye, and curbed her high career,--
Hope, for a season, bade the world farewell,
And Freedom shrieked--as Kosciusko fell!
The sun went down, nor ceased the carnage there.
Tumultuous murder shook the midnight air;
On Prague's proud arch the fires of ruin glow,
His blood-dyed waters murmuring far below;
The storm prevails, the rampart yields a way;
Bursts the wide cry of horror and dismay!
Hark! as the smouldering piles with thunder fall,
A thousand shrieks for hopeless mercy call!
Earth shook; red meteors flashed along the sky,
And conscious Nature shuddered at the cry!
Oh! righteous Heaven! ere Freedom found a grave,
Why slept the sword omnipotent to save?
Where was thine arm, O Vengeance! where thy rod,
That smote the foes of Zion and of God,
That crushed proud Ammon, when his iron car
Was yoked in wrath, and thundered from afar?
Where was the storm that slumbered till the host
Of blood-stained Pharaoh left their trembling coast,
Then bade the deep in wild commotion flow,
And heaved an ocean on their march below?
...
There is always hope for tomorrow
We start a brand new day
No one knows what is in store
As we live our lives in every which way
We must keep our heads up
And accentuate the positive
That is the attitude that we must have
Because we all have one life to live
There was this hope
In one man's dream:
With all his heart,
Therein it seems...
Of memories gone
Of love and care,
For years go on
Those are so dear.
I felt it too
In dreams of mine,
Just like in yours,
They well on did shine.
And sometimes I found,
When I walked alone:
They kept me bound,
Though they had flown.
For life is a touch
Of those hidden things,
That we love so much
And to us again sings.
If the road of hope make you tired,
remember,
i exist,
you exist,
we will exist.
779
The Service without Hope—
Is tenderest, I think—
Because 'tis unsustained
By stint—Rewarded Work—
Has impetus of Gain—
And impetus of Goal—
There is no Diligence like that
That knows not an Until—
WHEN by my solitary hearth I sit,
And hateful thoughts enwrap my soul in gloom;
When no fair dreams before my "mind's eye" flit,
And the bare heath of life presents no bloom;
Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
Whene'er I wander, at the fall of night,
Where woven boughs shut out the moon's bright ray,
Should sad Despondency my musings fright,
And frown, to drive fair Cheerfulness away,
Peep with the moonbeams through the leafy roof,
And keep that fiend Despondence far aloof!
Should Disappointment, parent of Despair,
Strive for her son to seize my careless heart;
When, like a cloud, he sits upon the air,
Preparing on his spell-bound prey to dart:
Chase him away, sweet Hope, with visage bright,
And fright him as the morning frightens night!
Whene'er the fate of those I hold most dear
Tells to my fearful breast a tale of sorrow,
O bright-eyed Hope, my morbidfancy cheer;
Let me awhile thy sweetest comforts borrow:
Thy heaven-born radiance around me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
Should e'er unhappy love my bosom pain,
From cruel parents, or relentless fair;
O let me think it is not quite in vain
To sigh out sonnets to the midnight air!
Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
In the long vista of the years to roll,
Let me not see our country's honour fade:
O let me see our land retain her soul,
Her pride, her freedom; and not freedom's shade.
From thy bright eyes unusual brightness shed---
Beneath thy pinions canopy my head!
Let me not see the patriot's high bequest,
Great Liberty! how great in plain attire!
With the base purple of a court oppress'd,
Bowing her head, and ready to expire:
But let me see thee stoop from heaven on wings
That fill the skies with silver glitterings!
And as, in sparkling majesty, a star
Gilds the bright summit of some gloomy cloud;
Brightening the half veil'd face of heaven afar:
So, when dark thoughts my boding spirit shroud,
Sweet Hope, celestial influence round me shed,
Waving thy silver pinions o'er my head!
Is to believe
In that a Greater Authority
Will take care of things
And of you
When there's nothing
Else to see or feel
To tell what future holds
And you've done your best
To take care of the present
It comes from the heart
Always for something
When there's nothing
We will not lose hope
One day all will have freedom
All will live in peace
Experience love
And share the beauty
Of warmth and sunshine.
We can walk in sunshine
Holding on to our hope
Noticing all the beauty
Feeling all the freedom
When we walk in love
With the idea of peace.
There can be peace
If we trade darkness for sunshine
Trade hate for love
Trade defeatism for hope
Trade bondage for freedom
To enjoy a world full of beauty.
If we look we will find the beauty
If we look we will find the peace
If we look we will find the freedom
If we look we will find the sunshine
If we look we will find the hope
If we look we will find the love.
Then share the love
Share the beauty
Share the hope
For this world to be full of peace
By us all living in the sunshine
For a new world full of freedom.
Let us all feel the freedom
By learning to love
Each other like we love sunshine
And seeing each others beauty
Together we will have peace
If we hold onto hope.
To treasure our freedom and peace
To treasure our beauty and sunshine
Just don’t let go of love or let go of hope.
Hope, a magical word of four letters
Although everyone struggle to hold fast, scared of loosing it,
Never vanishes from anyone’s life, well what is hope?
Hope is like morning sun
Although an hour late or early,
Never forgets to rise, to start lively life
Hope is like twinkling stars
Although for a while hide behind dark clouds,
Never stop emitting starlight, even in the darkest night
Hope is like enchanting moon
Although disappears for a fortnight,
Never fails to sooth us wherever, however, whatever we are
Hope is like tender grass root
Although gets crushed for few days
Never give up, peeps out beside the hardest rocks and tiles
Hope is like nature
Although attacked by miscreants, calamities
Never allow anyone to perish its infinite flora and fauna
Hope is like newborn baby
Although cry a bit after birth to proclaim its entry
Never get in the way of putting smile on anyone’s face
Hope is like tomorrow
Although comes with mixed bag of joy and sorrow
Never ignores anyone, its there for everyone
Hope is like faith in GOD
Although faints occasionally in difficult times
Never disappoints anyone in the end
RAY OF HOPE SHOULD NEVER GO OUT OF ANYBODY’S LIFE
When Hope but made Tranquillity be felt--
A Flight of Hopes for ever on the wing
But made Tranquillity a conscious Thing--
And wheeling round and round in sportive coil
Fann'd the calm air upon the brow of Toil--
WHEN THERE IS NO HOPE AND NOTHING TO HOPE FOR
When there is no hope and nothing to hope for
When no specific path presents itself
When there seems no way out
When one has already tried so much
And not succeeded
When one is older and weaker
And knows one cannot be as good
As one once was
When that too was not good enough
When the only way open
Seems a natural going down
When there is no hope and nothing to hope for
And when one begins to think of ‘miracles'
In a way one has never done before
When there seems no way out
And nothing to hope for
And one in desperation tries to think and think
Look and find
A new way
That will succeed at last
And nothing appears and nothing comes
When there is no hope and nothing to hope for
And Desperation deepens
And one cannot find the way out.
The tears fall, but no one's there to heed them,
The heart it mourns, but no one sees the hurt.
An emptiness has seeped into the brainstem,
One's feeling dazed, and no longer alert.
Such desolation haunts one's whole persona,
What can one do, and just where can one go,
You feel as if you've now become a loner,
How droplets, when they're prompted, freely flow.
To cry can be a painful kind of action,
One weeps for someone one has loved so well,
Yet grieving gives release, if just a fraction,
Which heals the ache and lets sadness dispel.
Only time will ease such utter sorrow,
That comes from losing someone Oh, so dear,
But with the dawning of each new tomorrow,
With faith and hope you'll find a panacea.
©   Ernestine Northover
All Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair--
The bees are stirring--birds are on the wing--
And WINTER slumbering in the open air,
Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring !
And I, the while, the sole unbusy thing,
Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing.
Yet well I ken the banks where Amaranths blow,
Have traced the fount whence streams of nectar flow.
Bloom, O ye Amaranths ! bloom for whom ye may,
For me ye bloom not ! Glide, rich streams, away !
With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll :
And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul ?
WORK WITHOUT HOPE draws nectar in a sieve,
And HOPE without an object cannot live.
Every human being living on this earth hope for something
Poor people hope that one day money will come their way
The rich folks hope to multiply their assets before long
Several men hope for a wife who is as caring as their mother
Many women hope for husbands who is as loving as their father
Children always hope for parents who will give them everything
Bankers hope that everybody will pay their mortgages in time
Thieves and robbers hope the police should stop harassing them
While the police hope that every person will be law-abiding
Priests and clerics hope that everyone will live a sacred life
Experienced nurses hope the doctors will treat them with respect
Medical doctors hope their patients will recuperate faster
Careful drivers hope that other drivers will drive like them
Teachers hope all students will do their home-work regularly
While the students hope the teachers will give them easy exams
The colleges hope that all students will pay their tuition promptly
Farmers always hope for good and abundant harvest
Lawyers hope more and more people will need their services
Fishermen hope that more and more fishes run into their nets
School-girls always hope for rich and generous boy-friends
All politicians hope to get elected and re-elected
Employers hope their workers will volunteer for overtime
Every architect always hope to design the best building in town
Builders hope to showcase the tallest building as their own work
The mechanics always hope more people will buy used-vehicles
What are your personal hopes on this earth?
What are your hopes for your family?
What are your hopes for your country?
The day we humans stop hoping on this earth
Will be the day we cease to be members of this beautiful planet
Please remember to stay happy and cheerful
It is dark, no moon, no light
Just darkness, a starless sky
The wind blows, the waves break
A single firefly passes by
Soon the firefly is gone
Leaving me in the darkest of nights
The tiny fly made me anticipate
A sunrise with the finest of lights
Bachok, January 2012
You gave me words of hope, are they not long delayed?
The plum-tree is remembered by the Spring,
Though it seemed dead with frost.
After you’ve negotiated that artfully-conceived
sharp elbow bend in the long, grand drive
through the fields of its estate,
and it hoves into view,
you always gasp – this palace
- no, more like a temple with living quarters –
set deep in the countryside, yet as sure
as one in Athens or in Rome;
yet that too is artfully contrived -
the slight mound it’s built on,
the cunning proportion that magnifies,
disguises, with its public face
the aptness of a family home;
its public rooms so grand, just echoing enough
to magnify a public speech;  its family rooms
smallish, cosy; love and friendliness
live here. It says to the world,
stability; tradition re-affirmed; yet
this is our familiar family home.
It has its rooms, as rooms should be,
devoted to each family pursuit:
here’s the grand library
but here, with books so evidently, lovingly well read;
you almost missed the little girl, her hair and knees
curled round a book, deep in that leather green armchair;
the study, where your breathing seems to change,
there’s such a still and living silence here;
the nursery that emanates a lifetime’s care;
the children’s bedrooms set around it,
through which you ran and laughed and ran again; the window seats
from which you looked so wistfully
as childhood’s assurance faded into teenage questioning;
a house to leave,
a house to come back to;
a metaphor
as living, haunting, as the poetry it is.
After death visited,
they opened the house
as a museum
it was easier than clearing it
but as
Health and Safety officials
were not happy, only one
at a time, perhaps two together,
were admitted
by appointment only
there were photos of course
and framed copies
of the better-known poems
some ageing better than others
a scratchy recording
a rather musty smell
a few years after I died
I went back to look
but the house and
its predominantly green writing room
and blue glass which
the sun peered dustily through
with the hideous 1930s fireplace
painted crudely over in 1960s taste in white
looked nothing to do with me
nor the photos
nor the poems
so I abandoned what I'd thought
a rather cute idea of
being a friendly ghost
in my own museum
it just hadn't come together
as a poem should
or a life
but I left the laughter and the joy
for those who could hear it
(For Wendy, a concrete image)
My house is always upside down
It is the funniest house in town
If you throw waste in a dustbin
Or any different type of tin
It will kick the waste back on your face
And push you at their fastest pace
If you don’t wake up from the bed
It will throw out cockroaches fat and red
The tooth brush will brush inside your nose
The tooth paste will lie beneath your toes
The comb will brush the hair on your eyes
The oven will burn all your pies
All the juice will splash on your face
It will also splash inside your nose, what a place.
That’s what will happen if you live in my house
With a mouse that wouldn’t let you drowse.
I knew that a baby was hid in that house,
Though I saw no cradle and heard no cry;
But the husband was tip-toeing 'round like a mouse,
And the good wife was humming a soft lullaby;
And there was a look on the face of the mother,
That I knew could mean only one thing, and no other.
The mother, I said to myself, for I knew
That the woman before me was certainly that;
And there lay in a corner a tiny cloth shoe,
And I saw on a stand such a wee little hat;
And the beard of the husband said, plain as could be,
'Two fat chubby hands have been tugging at me.'
And he took from his pocket a gay picture-book,
And a dog that could bark, if you pulled on a string;
And the wife laid them up with such a pleased look;
And I said to myself, 'There is no other thing
But a babe that could bring about all this, and so
That one thing is in hiding somewhere, I know.'
I stayed but a moment, and saw nothing more,
And heard not a sound, yet I know I was right;
What else could the shoe mean that lay on the floor,
The book and the toy, and the faces so bright;
And what made the husband as still as a mouse?
I am sure, very sure, there's a babe in that house.
There is a street in every town that owns a house
called lonely. Then when your just passing by you might
just say, 'if only.
If only could mean a life time of thoughts but it does'nt cure
a lonely house and all its faults.
Boarded up windows and tiles gone from the roof, graffiti
painted by a rebelious youth.
Such a lonely house and an oh such a tired one,
one that has lost all it's fun.
Stairs and rafters all gone to pot all that is left
is wood worm and dry rot.
No children playing in the garden, it's just a house condemend
by the council without no pardon. Poor lonely house someones
forgotton dream, now describing lifes social scene.
This lonely house stands in the way because their building
a By Pass or a new motorway.
The house called lonely could be any where, in the town, the
country or city square.
Even in your street there's a house called lonely just waiting
for you to say 'if only'
From my cottage kitchen window I can see
Two fields away the blue, the shining sea
And ships that slowly glide to far-off shores
Each one a separate world with its own laws;
They pass beyond my window and are gone.
When morning comes that miracle, the sun
Lifts slowly from the sea, a sacrament
Of grace and glory, or enlightenment.
My cottage truly is a house of light:
By night shines Sirius, cold and bright
And in the afternoon our living room
Seems more like a sunny meadow in mid-June.
From it we see the sun prepare to slumber
Wrapped in the gleaming waters of the Humber
While to the south another lighthouse shines—
Peace be to Spurn and you who read these lines.
399
A House upon the Height—
That Wagon never reached—
No Dead, were ever carried down—
No Peddler's Cart—approached—
Whose Chimney never smoked—
Whose Windows—Night and Morn—
Caught Sunrise first—and Sunset—last—
Then—held an Empty Pane—
Whose fate—Conjecture knew—
No other neighbor—did—
And what it was—we never lisped—
Because He—never told—
How sweet it were, if without feeble fright,
Or dying of the dreadful beauteous sight,
An angel came to us, and we could bear
To see him issue from the silent air
At evening in our room, and bend on ours
His divine eyes, and bring us from his bowers
News of dear friends, and children who have never
Been dead indeed,--as we shall know forever.
Alas! we think not what we daily see
About our hearths,--angels that are to be,
Or may be if they will, and we prepare
Their souls and ours to meet in happy air;--
A child, a friend, a wife whose soft heart sings
In unison with ours, breeding its future wings.
The neighbors' dog will not stop barking.
He is barking the same high, rhythmic bark
that he barks every time they leave the house.
They must switch him on on their way out.
The neighbors' dog will not stop barking.
I close all the windows in the house
and put on a Beethoven symphony full blast
but I can still hear him muffled under the music,
barking, barking, barking,
and now I can see him sitting in the orchestra,
his head raised confidently as if Beethoven
had included a part for barking dog.
When the record finally ends he is still barking,
sitting there in the oboe section barking,
his eyes fixed on the conductor who is
entreating him with his baton
while the other musicians listen in respectful
silence to the famous barking dog solo,
that endless coda that first established
Beethoven as an innovative genius.
Lured by the wall, and drawn
To stare below the roof,
Where pigeons nest aloof
From prowling cats and men,
I count the sash and bar
Secured to granite stone,
And note the daylight gone,
Supper and silence near.
Close to the wall inside,
Immured, empty of love,
A man I have wondered of
Lies patient, vacant-eye.
A month and a day ago
He stopped his car and found
A girl on the darkening ground,
And killed her in the snow.
Beside his cell, I am told,
Hardy perennial bums
Complain till twilight comes
For hunger and for cold.
They hardly know of a day
That saw their hunger pass.
Bred to the dark, their flesh
Peacefully withers away.
The man who sits alone,
He is the one for wonder,
Who sways his fingers under
The cleanly shaven chin,
Who sees, in the shaving mirror
Pinned to the barren wall,
The uprooted ghost of all:
The simple, easy terror.
Caught between sky and earth,
Poor stupid animal,
Stripped naked to the wall,
He saw the blundered birth
Of daemons beyond sound.
Sick of the dark, he rose
For love, and now he goes
Back to the broken ground.
Now, as he grips the chain
And holds the wall, to bear
What no man ever bore,
He hears the bums complain;
But I mourn no soul but his,
Not even the bums who die,
Nor the homely girl whose cry
Crumbled his pleading kiss.
GOD grant a blessing on this tower and cottage
And on my heirs, if all remain unspoiled,
No table or chair or stool not simple enough
For shepherd lads in Galilee; and grant
That I myself for portions of the year
May handle nothing and set eyes on nothing
But what the great and passionate have used
Throughout so many varying centuries
We take it for the norm; yet should I dream
Sinbad the sailor's brought a painted chest,
Or image, from beyond the Loadstone Mountain,
That dream is a norm; and should some limb of the Devil
Destroy the view by cutting down an ash
That shades the road, or setting up a cottage
Planned in a government office, shorten his life,
Manacle his soul upon the Red Sea bottom.
Lord, thou hast given me a cell,
Wherein to dwell;
A little house, whose humble roof
Is weather proof;
Under the spars of which I lie
Both soft and dry;
Where thou, my chamber for to ward,
Hast set a guard
Of harmless thoughts, to watch and keep
Me, while I sleep.
Low is my porch, as is my fate;
Both void of state;
And yet the threshold of my door
Is worn by th' poor,
Who thither come, and freely get
Good words, or meat.
Like as my parlour, so my hall
And kitchen's small;
A little buttery, and therein
A little bin,
Which keeps my little loaf of bread
Unchipt, unflead;
Some brittle sticks of thorn or briar
Make me a fire,
Close by whose living coal I sit,
And glow like it.
Lord, I confess too, when I dine,
The pulse is thine,
And all those other bits that be
There placed by thee;
The worts, the purslain, and the mess
Of water-cress,
Which of thy kindness thou hast sent;
And my content
Makes those, and my beloved beet,
To be more sweet.
'Tis thou that crown'st my glittering hearth
With guiltless mirth,
And giv'st me wassail bowls to drink,
Spiced to the brink.
Lord, 'tis thy plenty-dropping hand
That soils my land,
And giv'st me, for my bushel sown,
Twice ten for one;
Thou mak'st my teeming hen to lay
Her egg each day;
Besides, my healthful ewes to bear
Me twins each year;
The while the conduits of my kine
Run cream, for wine:
All these, and better, thou dost send
Me, to this end,--
That I should render, for my part,
A thankful heart;
Which, fired with incense, I resign,
As wholly thine;
--But the acceptance, that must be,
My Christ, by Thee.
'T was Fultah Fisher's boarding-house,
Where sailor-men reside,
And there were men of all the ports
From Mississip to Clyde,
And regally they spat and smoked,
And fearsomely they lied.
They lied about the purple Sea
That gave them scanty bread,
They lied about the Earth beneath,
The Heavens overhead,
For they had looked too often on
Black rum when that was red.
They told their tales of wreck and wrong,
Of shame and lust and fraud,
They backed their toughest statements with
The Brimstone of the Lord,
And crackling oaths went to and fro
Across the fist-banged board.
And there was Hans the blue-eyed Dane,
Bull-throated, bare of arm,
Who carried on his hairy chest
The maid Ultruda's charm --
The little silver crucifix
That keeps a man from harm.
And there was Jake Without-the-Ears,
And Pamba the Malay,
And Carboy Gin the Guinea cook,
And Luz from Vigo Bay,
And Honest Jack who sold them slops
And harvested their pay.
And there was Salem Hardieker,
A lean Bostonian he --
Russ, German, English, Halfbreed, Finn,
Yank, Dane, and Portugee,
At Fultah Fisher's boarding-house
They rested from the sea.
Now Anne of Austria shared their drinks,
Collinga knew her fame,
From Tarnau in Galicia
To Juan Bazaar she came,
To eat the bread of infamy
And take the wage of shame.
She held a dozen men to heel --
Rich spoil of war was hers,
In hose and gown and ring and chain,
From twenty mariners,
And, by Port Law, that week, men called
Her Salem Hardieker's.
But seamen learnt -- what landsmen know --
That neither gifts nor gain
Can hold a winking Light o' Love
Or Fancy's flight restrain,
When Anne of Austria rolled her eyes
On Hans the blue-eyed Dane.
Since Life is strife, and strife means knife,
From Howrah to the Bay,
And he may die before the dawn
Who liquored out the day,
In Fultah Fisher's boarding-house
We woo while yet we may.
But cold was Hans the blue-eyed Dane,
Bull-throated, bare of arm,
And laughter shook the chest beneath
The maid Ultruda's charm --
The little silver crucifix
That keeps a man from harm.
"You speak to Salem Hardieker;
"You was his girl, I know.
"I ship mineselfs to-morrow, see,
"Und round the Skaw we go,
"South, down the Cattegat, by Hjelm,
"To Besser in Saro."
When love rejected turns to hate,
All ill betide the man.
"You speak to Salem Hardieker" --
She spoke as woman can.
A scream -- a sob -- "He called me -- names!"
And then the fray began.
An oath from Salem Hardieker,
A shriek upon the stairs,
A dance of shadows on the wall,
A knife-thrust unawares --
And Hans came down, as cattle drop,
Across the broken chairs.
. . . . . .
In Anne of Austria's trembling hands
The weary head fell low: --
"I ship mineselfs to-morrow, straight
"For Besser in Saro;
"Und there Ultruda comes to me
"At Easter, und I go
"South, down the Cattegat -- What's here?
"There -- are -- no -- lights -- to guide!"
The mutter ceased, the spirit passed,
And Anne of Austria cried
In Fultah Fisher's boarding-house
When Hans the mighty died.
Thus slew they Hans the blue-eyed Dane,
Bull-throated, bare of arm,
But Anne of Austria looted first
The maid Ultruda's charm --
The little silver crucifix
That keeps a man from harm.
That deaf old man
With his hand to his ear--
His hand to hi head stood out like a shell,
Horny and hollow.  He said, "I can't hear,"
He muttered, "Don't shout,
I can hear very well!"
He mumbled, "I can't catch a word;
I can't follow."
Then Jack with a voice like a Protestant bell
Roared--"Particulars! Farmhouse! At 10 quid a year!"
"I dunno wot place you are talking about."
Said the deaf old man.
Said Jack, "What the Hell!"
But the deaf old man took a pin from his desk, picked
a piece of wool the size of a hen's egg from his ear,
had a good look at it, decided in its favour and re-
placed it in the aforementioned organ.
475
Doom is the House without the Door—
'Tis entered from the Sun—
And then the Ladder's thrown away,
Because Escape—is done—
'Tis varied by the Dream
Of what they do outside—
Where Squirrels play—and Berries die—
And Hemlocks—bow—to God—
But please walk softly as you do.
Frogs dwell here and crickets too.
Ain't no ceiling, only blue.
Jays dwell here and sunbeams too.
Floors are flowers - take a few
Ferns grow here and daisies too.
Swoosh, whoosh - too-whit, too-woo
Bats dwell here and hoot owls too.
Ha-ha-ha, hee-hee, hoo-hoooo,
Gnomes dwell here and goblins too.
And my child, I thought you knew
I dwell here... and so do you
The first was like a dream through summer heat,
The second like a tedious numbing swoon,
While the half-frozen pulses lagged to beat
Beneath a winter moon.
'But,' says my friend, 'what was this thing and where?'
It was a pleasure-place within my soul;
An earthly paradise supremely fair
That lured me from the goal.
The first part was a tissue of hugged lies;
The second was its ruin fraught with pain:
Why raise the fair delusion to the skies
But to be dashed again?
My castle stood of white transparent glass
Glittering and frail with many a fretted spire,
But when the summer sunset came to pass
It kindled into fire.
My pleasaunce was an undulating green,
Stately with trees whose shadows slept below,
With glimpses of smooth garden-beds between
Like flame or sky or snow.
Swift squirrels on the pastures took their ease,
With leaping lambs safe from the unfeared knife;
All singing-birds rejoicing in those trees
Fulfilled their careless life.
Woodpigeons cooed there, stockdoves nestled there;
My trees were full of songs and flowers and fruit,
Their branches spread a city to the air
And mice lodged in their root.
My heath lay farther off, where lizards lived
In strange metallic mail, just spied and gone;
Like darted lightnings here and there perceived
But nowhere dwelt upon.
Frogs and fat toads were there to hop or plod
And propagate in peace, an uncouth crew,
Where velvet-headed rushes rustling nod
And spill the morning dew.
All caterpillars throve beneath my rule,
With snails and slugs in corners out of sight;
I never marred the curious sudden stool
That perfects in a night.
Safe in his excavated gallery
The burrowing mole groped on from year to year;
No harmless hedgehog curled because of me
His prickly back for fear.
Oft times one like an angel walked with me,
With spirit-discerning eyes like flames of fire,
But deep as the unfathomed endless sea,
Fulfilling my desire:
And sometimes like a snowdrift he was fair,
And sometimes like a sunset glorious red,
And sometimes he had wings to scale the air
With aureole round his head.
We sang our songs together by the way,
Calls and recalls and echoes of delight;
So communed we together all the day,
And so in dreams by night.
I have no words to tell what way we walked.
What unforgotten path now closed and sealed;
I have no words to tell all things we talked,
All things that he revealed:
This only can I tell: that hour by hour
I waxed more feastful, lifted up and glad;
I felt no thorn-prick when I plucked a flower,
Felt not my friend was sad.
'To-morrow,' once I said to him with smiles:
'To-night,' he answered gravely and was dumb,
But pointed out the stones that numbered miles
And miles to come.
'Not so,' I said: 'to-morrow shall be sweet;
To-night is not so sweet as coming days.'
Then first I saw that he had turned his feet,
Had turned from me his face:
Running and flying miles and miles he went,
But once looked back to beckon with his hand
And cry: 'Come home, O love, from banishment:
Come to the distant land.'
That night destroyed me like an avalanche;
One night turned all my summer back to snow:
Next morning not a bird upon my branch,
Not a lamb woke below,—
No bird, no lamb, no living breathing thing;
No squirrel scampered on my breezy lawn,
No mouse lodged by his hoard: all joys took wing
And fled before that dawn.
Azure and sun were starved from heaven above,
No dew had fallen, but biting frost lay hoar:
O love, I knew that I should meet my love,
Should find my love no more.
'My love no more,' I muttered stunned with pain:
I shed no tear, I wrung no passionate hand,
Till something whispered: 'You shall meet again,
Meet in a distant land.'
Then with a cry like famine I arose,
I lit my candle, searched from room to room,
Searched up and down; a war of winds that froze
Swept through the blank of gloom.
I searched day after day, night after night;
Scant change there came to me of night or day:
'No more,' I wailed, 'no more:' and trimmed my light,
And gnashed but did not pray,
Until my heart broke and my spirit broke:
Upon the frost-bound floor I stumbled, fell,
And moaned: 'It is enough: withhold the stroke.
Farewell, O love, farewell.'
Then life swooned from me. And I heard the song
Of spheres and spirits rejoicing over me:
One cried: 'Our sister, she hath suffered long.'—
One answered: 'Make her see.'—
One cried: 'Oh blessed she who no more pain,
Who no more disappointment shall receive.'—
One answered: 'Not so: she must live again;
Strengthen thou her to live.'
So while I lay entranced a curtain seemed
To shrivel with crackling from before my face;
Across mine eyes a waxing radiance beamed
And showed a certain place.
I saw a vision of a woman, where
Night and new morning strive for domination;
Incomparably pale, and almost fair,
And sad beyond expression.
Her eyes were like some fire-enshrining gem,
Were stately like the stars, and yet were tender;
Her figure charmed me like a windy stem
Quivering and drooped and slender.
I stood upon the outer barren ground,
She stood on inner ground that budded flowers;
While circling in their never-slackening round
Danced by the mystic hours.
But every flower was lifted on a thorn,
And every thorn shot upright from its sands
To gall her feet; hoarse laughter pealed in scorn
With cruel clapping hands.
She bled and wept, yet did not shrink; her strength
Was strung up until daybreak of delight:
She measured measureless sorrow toward its length,
And breadth, and depth, and height.
Then marked I how a chain sustained her form,
A chain of living links not made nor riven:
It stretched sheer up through lighting, wind, and storm,
And anchored fast in heaven.
One cried: 'How long? yet founded on the Rock
She shall do battle, suffer, and attain.'—
One answered: 'Faith quakes in the tempest shock:
Strengthen her soul again.'
I saw a cup sent down and come to her
Brimfull of loathing and of bitterness:
She drank with livid lips that seemed to stir
The depth, not make it less.
But as she drank I spied a hand distil
New wine and virgin honey; making it
First bitter-sweet, then sweet indeed, until
She tasted only sweet.
Her lips and cheeks waxed rosy-fresh and young;
Drinking she sang: 'My soul shall nothing want;'
And drank anew: while soft a song was sung,
A mystical slow chant.
One cried: 'The wounds are faithful of a friend:
The wilderness shall blossom as a rose.'—
One answered: 'Rend the veil, declare the end,
Strengthen her ere she goes.'
Then earth and heaven were rolled up like a scroll;
Time and space, change and death, had passed away;
Weight, number, measure, each had reached its whole;
The day had come, that day.
Multitudes—multitudes—stood up in bliss,
Made equal to the angels, glorious, fair;
With harps, palms, wedding-garments, kiss of peace
And crowned and haloed hair.
They sang a song, a new song in the height,
Harping with harps to Him Who is Strong and True:
They drank new wine, their eyes saw with new light,
Lo, all things were made new.
Tier beyond tier they rose and rose and rose
So high that it was dreadful, flames with flames:
No man could number them, no tongue disclose
Their secret sacred names.
As though one pulse stirred all, one rush of blood
Fed all, one breath swept through them myriad-voiced,
They struck their harps, cast down their crowns, they stood
And worshipped and rejoiced.
Each face looked one way like a moon new-lit,
Each face looked one way towards its Sun of Love;
Drank love and bathed in love and mirrored it
And knew no end thereof.
Glory touched glory on each blessed head,
Hands locked dear hands never to sunder more:
These were the new-begotten from the dead
Whom the great birthday bore.
Heart answered heart, soul answered soul at rest,
Double against each other, filled, sufficed:
All loving, loved of all; but loving best
And best beloved of Christ.
I saw that one who lost her love in pain,
Who trod on thorns, who drank the loathsome cup;
The lost in night, in day was found again;
The fallen was lifted up.
They stood together in the blessed noon,
They sang together through the length of days;
Each loving face bent Sunwards like a moon
New-lit with love and praise.
Therefore, O friend, I would not if I might
Rebuild my house of lies, wherein I joyed
One time to dwell: my soul shall walk in white,
Cast down but not destroyed.
Therefore in patience I possess my soul;
Yea, therefore as a flint I set my face,
To pluck down, to build up again the whole—
But in a distant place.
These thorns are sharp, yet I can tread on them;
This cup is loathsome, yet He makes it sweet:
My face is steadfast toward Jerusalem,
My heart remembers it.
I lift the hanging hands, the feeble knees—
I, precious more than seven times molten gold—
Until the day when from his storehouses
God shall bring new and old;
Beauty for ashes, oil of joy for grief,
Garment of praise for spirit of heaviness:
Although to-day I fade as doth a leaf,
I languish and grow less.
Although to-day He prunes my twigs with pain,
Yet doth His blood nourish and warm my root:
To-morrow I shall put forth buds again
And clothe myself with fruit.
Although to-day I walk in tedious ways,
To-day His staff is turned into a rod,
Yet will I wait for Him the appointed days
And stay upon my God.
A Sonnet is a moment's monument,
Memorial from the Soul's eternity
To one dead deathless hour. Look that it be,
Whether for lustral rite or dire portent,
Of its own arduous fulness reverent:
Carve it in ivory or in ebony,
As Day or Night may rule; and let Time see
Its flowering crest impearl'd and orient.
A Sonnet is a coin: its face reveals
The soul,--its converse, to what Power 'tis due: --
Whether for tribute to the august appeals
Of Life, or dower in Love's high retinue,
It serve; or, 'mid the dark wharf's cavernous breath,
In Charon's palm it pay the toll to Death.
I dwell in a lonely house I know
That vanished many a summer ago,
And left no trace but the cellar walls,
And a cellar in which the daylight falls,
And the purple-stemmed wild raspberries grow.
O'er ruined fences the grape-vines shield
The woods come back to the mowing field;
The orchard tree has grown one copse
Of new wood and old where the woodpecker chops;
The footpath down to the well is healed.
I dwell with a strangely aching heart
In that vanished abode there far apart
On that disused and forgotten road
That has no dust-bath now for the toad.
Night comes; the black bats tumble and dart;
The whippoorwill is coming to shout
And hush and cluck and flutter about:
I hear him begin far enough away
Full many a time to say his say
Before he arrives to say it out.
It is under the small, dim, summer star.
I know not who these mute folk are
Who share the unlit place with me--
Those stones out under the low-limbed tree
Doubtless bear names that the mosses mar.
They are tireless folk, but slow and sad,
Though two, close-keeping, are lass and lad,--
With none among them that ever sings,
And yet, in view of how many things,
As sweet companions as might be had.
I love to go to Grampa's house.
He lives far, far away.
It's hard to sit still in the car
and it takes us two whole days.
My Grampa's fun is different.
He doesn't run and play.
But grampa's fun is special fun
and I love him best that way.
My Grampa tells me stories
when I sit on his knee
about the games and things he did
when he was small like me.
Sometimes he takes me fishin'
in a boat out on the lake.
We sing songs and then I giggle
at the bird sounds Grampa makes.
My grampa knows the names of things
like trees and plants and such.
He shares the stuff he knows with me
and I love him, oh so much.
I wish Grampa lived next door to me.
he lives so far away...
But I love to go to Grampa's house
though it takes us two whole days.
In silent night when rest I took
For sorrow near I did not look
I waked was with thund'ring noise
And piteous shrieks of dreadful voice.
That fearful sound of "Fire!" and "Fire!"
Let no man know is my desire.
I, starting up, the light did spy,
And to my God my heart did cry
To strengthen me in my distress
And not to leave me succorless.
Then, coming out, beheld a space
The flame consume my dwelling place.
And when I could no longer look,
I blest His name that gave and took,
That laid my goods now in the dust.
Yea, so it was, and so 'twas just.
It was His own, it was not mine,
Far be it that I should repine;
He might of all justly bereft
But yet sufficient for us left.
When by the ruins oft I past
My sorrowing eyes aside did cast,
And here and there the places spy
Where oft I sat and long did lie:
Here stood that trunk, and there that chest,
There lay that store I counted best.
My pleasant things in ashes lie,
And them behold no more shall I.
Under thy roof no guest shall sit,
Nor at thy table eat a bit.
No pleasant tale shall e'er be told,
Nor things recounted done of old.
No candle e'er shall shine in thee,
Nor bridegroom's voice e'er heard shall be.
In silence ever shall thou lie,
Adieu, Adieu, all's vanity.
Then straight I 'gin my heart to chide,
And did thy wealth on earth abide?
Didst fix thy hope on mold'ring dust?
The arm of flesh didst make thy trust?
Raise up thy thoughts above the sky
That dunghill mists away may fly.
Thou hast an house on high erect,
Framed by that mighty Architect,
With glory richly furnished,
Stands permanent though this be fled.
It's purchased and paid for too
By Him who hath enough to do.
A price so vast as is unknown
Yet by His gift is made thine own;
There's wealth enough, I need no more,
Farewell, my pelf, farewell my store.
The world no longer let me love,
My hope and treasure lies above.
The winter sun, golden and tired,
settles on the irregular army
of bottles. Outside the trucks
jostle toward the open road,
outside it's Saturday afternoon,
and young women in black pass by
arm in arm. This bar
is the house of silence, and we drink
to silence without raising our voices
in the old way. We drink to doors
that don't open, to the four walls
that dose their eyes, hands that run,
fingers that count change, toes
that add up to ten. Suspended
as we are between our business
and our rest, we feel the sudden peace
of wine and the agony of stale bread.
Columbus sailed from here 30 years ago
and never wrote home. On Saturdays
like this the phone still rings for him.
Indoors the tang of a tiny oil lamp. Outdoors
The winking signal on the waste of sea.
Indoors the sound of the wind. Outdoors the wind.
Indoors the locked heart and the lost key.
Outdoors the chill, the void, the siren. Indoors
The strong man pained to find his red blood cools,
While the blind clock grows louder, faster. Outdoors
The silent moon, the garrulous tides she rules.
Indoors ancestral curse-cum-blessing. Outdoors
The empty bowl of heaven, the empty deep.
Indoors a purposeful man who talks at cross
Purposes, to himself, in a broken sleep.
I turn around on the gravel
and go back to the house for a book,
something to read at the doctor’s office,
and while I am inside, running the finger
of inquisition along a shelf,
another me that did not bother
to go back to the house for a book
heads out on his own,
rolls down the driveway,
and swings left toward town,
a ghost in his ghost car,
another knot in the string of time,
a good three minutes ahead of me—
a spacing that will now continue
for the rest of my life.
Sometimes I think I see him
a few people in front of me on a line
or getting up from a table
to leave the restaurant just before I do,
slipping into his coat on the way out the door.
But there is no catching him,
no way to slow him down
and put us back in synch,
unless one day he decides to go back
to the house for something,
but I cannot imagine
for the life of me what that might be.
He is out there always before me,
blazing my trail, invisible scout,
hound that pulls me along,
shade I am doomed to follow,
my perfect double,
only bumped an inch into the future,
and not nearly as well-versed as I
in the love poems of Ovid—
I who went back to the house
that fateful winter morning and got the book.
In Arthur's house whileome was I
When happily the time went by
In midmost glory of his days.
He held his court then in a place
Whereof ye shall not find the name
In any story of his fame:
Caerliel good sooth men called it not,
Nor London Town, nor Camelot;
Yet therein had we bliss enow.
--Ah, far off was the overthrow
Of all that Britain praised and loved;
And though among us lightly moved
A love that could but lead to death,
Smooth-skinned he seemed, of rosy breath,
A fear to sting a lady's lip,
No ruin of goodly fellowship,
No shame and death of all things good.
Forgive the old carle's babbling mood;
As here I sit grey-haired and old,
My life gone as a story told,
Ye bid me tell a story too;
And then the evil days and few,
That yet were overlong for me
Rise up so clear I may not see
The pictures of my minstrel lore.
Well hearken! on a day of yore
From prime of morn the court did ride
Amidmost of the summertide
To search the dwellings of the deer
Until the heat of noon was near;
Then slackening speed awhile they went
Adown a ragged thorn-bushed bent
At whose feet grew a tangled wood
Of oak and holly nowise good:
But therethrough with some pain indeed
And rending of the ladies' weed
They won at last, and after found
A space of green-sward grown around
By oak and holly set full close;
And in the midst of it arose
Two goodly sycamores that made
A wide and little sun-pierced shade
About their high boles straight and green:
A fount was new-born there-between,
And running on as clear as glass,
Flowed winding on amid the grass
Until the thick wood swallowed it.
A place for happy folk to sit
While the hot day grew hotter still
Till eve began to work his will.
--So might those happy people think
Who grudged to see the red sun sink
And end another day of bliss
Although no joy tomorn should miss --
They laughed for joy as they drew nigh
The shade and fount: but lo, thereby
A man beside the fountain laid
The while his horse 'twixt sun and shade
Cropped the sweet grass: but little care
Had these of guile or giant's lair,
And scarce a foot before the Queen
Rode Gawain o'er the daisied green
To see what man his pleasure took;
Who rose up in meanwhile and shook
His tangled hair aback, as one
Who e'en but now his sleep hath done.
Rough-head and yellow-haired was he
Great-eyed, as folk have told to me,
And big and stout enow of limb:
As one who thinks no harm he smiled,
And cried out: "Well met in the wild,
Fair King and Queen; and ye withal
Sweet dames and damsels! Well befal
This day, whereon I see thee nigh,
O Lancelot, before I die!
And surely shall my heart rejoice
Sir Gawain, when I hear thy voice!"
Then Lancelot laughed: "Thou knowest us then
Full well among a many men?"
"As quoth the lion to the mouse,"
The man said; "in King Arthur's House
Men are not names of men alone,
But coffers rather of deeds done."
The Queen smiled blithe of heart, and spake:
"Hast thou done deeds for ladies' sake?"
"Nay Dame," he said, "I am but young;
A little have I lived and sung
And seen thy face this happy noon."
The King said: "May we hearken soon
Some merry tale of thee? for I
Am skilled to know men low and high
And deem thee neither churl nor fool."
Said he, "My fathers went to school
Where folk are taught a many things,
But not by bliss: men called them kings
In days when kings were near to seek;
But as a long thread waxeth weak,
So is it with our house; and now
I wend me home from oaken bough
Unto a stead where roof and wall
Shall not have over far to fall
When their last day comes."
As he spake
He reddened: "Nathless for their sake,
Whom the world loved once, mock not me
O King, if thence I bring to thee
A morsel and a draught of wine,
Though nothing king-like here thou dine."
Of some kind word King Arthur thought,
But ere he spake the woodman caught
His forest-nag and leapt thereon,
And through the tangled brake was gone.
Then leapt the King down, glad at heart,
Thinking, This day shall not depart
Without some voice from days that were;
And lightly leapt down Guenevere,
And man and maid lay presently
Neath the bee-laden branches high,
And sweet the scent of trodden grass
Amid the blossoms' perfume was.
There long they lay, and little spake,
As folk right loth the calm to break;
Till lo upon the forest-breeze
A noise of folk, and from the trees
They came: the first-seen forester,
A grizzled carle in such-like gear,
And then two maidens poorly clad
Though each a silver chaplet had
And round her neck a golden chain:
And last two varlets led a wain
Drawn by white oxen well bedight
With oaken boughs and lilies white;
Therein there lay a cask of wine
And baskets piled with bread full fine,
And flesh of hart and roe and hare;
And in the midst upon a chair
Done over with a cloth of gold
There sat a man exceeding old
With long white locks: and clad was he
No other than his company
Save that a golden crown he bore
Full fairly fashioned as of yore,
And with a sword was girt about
Such as few folk will see I doubt.
Right great it was: the scabbard thin
Was fashioned of a serpent's skin,
In every scale a stone of worth;
Of tooth of sea-lion of the north
The cross was, and the blood-boot stone
That heals the hurt the blade hath done
Hung down therefrom in silken purse:
The ruddy kin of Niblung's curse
O'er tresses of a sea-wife's hair
Was wrapped about the handle fair;
And last a marvellous sapphire stone
Amidst of the great pommel shone,
A blue flame in the forest green.
And Arthur deemed he ne'er had seen
So fair a sword: nay not when he
The wonder of the land-locked sea
Drew from the stone that Christmas-tide.
Now forth the forest youth did ride,
Leapt down beside the King, and spake:
"King Arthur for thy greatness' sake
My grandsire comes to look on thee;
My father standeth here by me;
These maidens are my sisters twain;
My brethren draw out from the wain
Somewhat thy woodland cheer to mend."
Thereat his sire the knee did bend
Before the King, who o'er the brown
Rough sleeve of the man's homespun gown
Beheld a goodly golden ring:
And fell to greater marvelling
When he beheld how fine and fair
The woodman's kneeling sisters were.
And all folk thereby deemed in sooth
That (save indeed the first seen youth)
These folk were nobler e'en than those
Of Arthur's wonder of a house.
But now the elder drew anigh,
By half a head was he more high
Than Arthur or than Lancelot,
Nor had eld bent him: he kneeled not
Before the King, but smiling took
His hands in hands that nowise shook;
And the King joyed as he who sees
One of his fathers' images
Stand glad before him in a dream.
Then down beside the bubbling stream
They sat together, and the King
Was loth to fall a questioning;
So first the elder spake and said:
"It joys me of thy goodlihead
O great king of our land; and though
Our blood within thee doth not flow,
And I who was a king of yore
May scarcely kneel thy feet before,
Yet do I deem thy right the best
Of all the kings who rule the West.
I love thy name and fame: behold,
King Arthur, I am grown so old
In guilelessness, the Gods have sent,
Be I content or uncontent,
This gift unto my latter days
That I may see as through a haze
The lives and deeds of days to come:
I laugh for some, I weep for some --
I neither laugh nor weep for thee,
But trembling through the clouds I see
Thy life and glory to the end;
And how the sweet and bitter blend
Within the cup that thou must drink.
Good is it that thou shalt not shrink
From either: that the afterdays
Shall still win glory from thy praise
And scarce believe thee laid asleep
When o'er thy deeds the days lie deep."
He ceased but his old lips moved still,
As though they would the tale fulfil
His heart kept secret: Arthur's eyes
Gleamed with the pride that needs would rise
Up from his heart, and low he said:
"I know the living by the dead
I know the future by the past."
Wise eyes and kind the elder cast
Upon him; while a nameless fear
Smote to the heart of Guenevere,
And, fainting there, was turned to love:
And thence a nameless pain did move
The noble heart of Lancelot,
The store of longing unforgot.
-- And west a little moved the sun
And noon began, and noon was done.
But as the elder's grey eyes turned
On Guenevere's, her sweet face burned
With sweet shame; as though she knew
He read her story through and through.
Kindly he looked on her and said:
"O Queen, the chief of goodlihead,
Be blithe and glad this day at least
When in my fathers' house ye feast:
For surely in their ancient hall
Ye sit now: look, there went the wall
Where yon turf ridge runs west-away:
Time was I heard my grand-dame say
She saw this stream run bubbling down
The hall-floor shut in trench of stone;
Therein she washed her father's cup
That last eve e'er the fire went up
O'er ridge and rafter and she passed
Betwixt the foeman's spears the last
Of all the women, wrapping round
This sword the gift of Odin's ground."
He shook the weapon o'er his knee,
Thereon gazed Arthur eagerly.
"Draw it, my lord," quoth Guenevere,
"Of such things have we little fear
In Arthur's house." And Lancelot rose
To look upon the treasure close.
But grimly smiled the ancient man:
"E'en as the sun arising wan
In the black sky when Heimdall's horn
Screams out and the last day is born,
This blade to eyes of men shall be
On that dread day I shall not see --"
Fierce was his old face for a while:
But once again he 'gan to smile
And took the Queen's slim lily hand
And set it on the deadly brand
Then laughed and said: "Hold this, O Queen,
Thine hand is where God's hands have been,
For this is Tyrfing: who knows when
His blade was forged? Belike ere men
Had dwelling on the middle-earth.
At least a man's life is it worth
To draw it out once: so behold
These peace-strings wrought of pearl and gold
The scabbard to the cross that bind
Lest a rash hand and heart made blind
Should draw it forth unwittingly."
Blithe laughed King Arthur: "Sir," said he,
"We well may deem in days by gone
This sword, the blade of such an one
As thou hast been, would seldom slide
Back to its sheath unsatisfied.
Lo now how fair a feast thy kin
Have dight for us and might we win
Some tale of thee in Tyrfing's praise,
Some deed he wrought in greener days,
This were a blithesome hour indeed."
"Sir," said the elder, "little need
To pray me hereof. Please ye dine
And drink a cup of woodman's wine,
Surely meantime some tale shall stir
Within my heart of days that were."
Then to their meat they gat and there
Feasted amid the woodland fair
The fairest folk of all the land.
Ah me when first the Queen's fair hand
Drew near the kneeling forest youth
New-wrought the whole world seemed in sooth
And nothing left therein of ill.
So at the last the Queen did fill
A cup of wine, and drank and said:
"In memory of thy fathers dead
I drink, fair lord, drink now with me
And then bethink thee presently
Of deeds that once won prize and praise
The glory of thy fathers' days."
He drank and laughed and said," Nay, nay,
Keep we the peace-strings whole today.
This draught from where thy lips have been
Within mine old heart maketh green
The memory of a love full true,
The first recorded deed that drew
My fathers' house from dark to light.
If thus my grandame told aright,
A rougher place our land was then,
Quoth she, than with us living men,
And other trees were in the wood
And folk of somewhat other blood
Than ours: then were the small-eyed bears
More plenty in the woodland lairs
Than badgers now: no holiday
It was to chase the wolves away,
Yea there were folk who had to tell
Of lyngworms lying on the fell,
And fearful things by lake and fen,
And manlike shapes that were not men.
Then fay-folk roamed the woods at noon,
And on the grave-mound in the moon
Faint gleamed the flickering treasure-flame.
Days of the world that won no fame,
Yet now, quoth she, folk looking back
Across the tumult and the wrack
And swelling up of windy lies
And dull fool-fashioned cruelties,
Deem that in those days God abode
On earth and shared ill times and good
And right and wrong with that same folk
Their hands had fashioned for the yoke.
Quoth she, of such nought tells my tale,
Yet saith that such as should prevail
In those days o'er the fears of earth
Must needs have been some deal of worth,
And saith that had ye seen a kin
Who dwelt these very woods within
Them at the least ye would have told
For cousins of the Gods of old.
Amongst all these it tells of one,
The goodman's last-begotten son,
Some twenty summers old: as fair
As any flower that blossomed there
In sun and rain, and strong therewith
And lissom as a willow withe.
Now through these woods amidst of June
This youngling went until at noon
From out of the thicket his fair face
Peered forth upon this very place;
For he had been a-hunting nigh
And wearied thought a while to lie
Beside the freshness of the stream.
But lo as in a morning dream
The place was changed, for there was dight
A fair pavilion blue and white
E'en where we play, and all around
Was talk of men and diverse sound,
Tinkling of bit and neigh of steed
Clashing of arms and iron weed.
For round about the painted tent
Armed folk a many came or went,
Or on the fresh grass lay about.
Surely our youth at first had doubt
If 'twere not better to be gone
Than meet these stranger folk alone --
But wot ye well such things as these
Were new to him born mid the trees
And wild things: and he thought, Maybe
The household of the Gods I see:
Who for as many tales as I
Have heard of them, I ne'er saw nigh.
If they be men, I wotted not
That such fair raiment men had got;
They will be glad to show them then.
For one thing taught these woodland men
Whatever wisdom they let fall
Men since have won Fear nought at all.
So from the holly brake he strode
Shouldering the while his hunter's load,
A new slain roe; but there arose
To meet him half a score of those
Whom in fair words he greeted well.
Now was he clad in a sheep's fell
And at his back his quiver hung,
His woodknife on his thigh: unstrung
His bow he held in a staff's stead.
An oaken wreath was round his head
From whence his crispy locks of brown
Well nigh unto his belt hung down,
And howso frank his eyes might be
A half-frown soothly might you see
As these men handled sword or spear
And cried out, "Hold, what dost thou here?"
"Ah," said he, "then no Gods ye are.
Fear not, I shall not make you war."
Therewith his hunting-knife he drew
And the long blade before them he threw.
Then loud they laughed; one sheathed his sword:
"Thanks, army-leader, for that word!
We are not Gods e'en as thou say'st,
Nor thou a devil of the waste
But e'en a devil's a friend belike."
Something [of] hate hereat did strike
Unto the woodsman's unused heart,
Yet he spake softly for his part:
"What men are ye and where dwell ye?
What is the wondrous house I see?"
"In the fair southland is our home
Yet from the north as now we come,"
Said one: then with a mocking smile,
"And in our house there dwells awhile
A very Goddess of the north.
But lo you, take a thing of worth
For that thy quarry, and begone."
But as he spake another one
Spake softly in his ear: and so
The word from this to that did go,
With laughing that seemed nowise good
Unto the dweller of the wood,
Who saying nought moved toward the tent.
But they came round him as he went
And said: "Nay, pagan, stay thy feet;
Thou art not one our dame to greet
. . .
Someone was calling someone;
now they've stopped. Beyond the glass
the rose vines quiver as in
a light wind, but there is none:
I hear nothing. The moments pass,
or seem to pass, and the sun,
risen above the old birch,
steadies for the downward arch.
It is noon. Privacy is
one thing, but to be alone,
to speak and not to be heard,
to speak again the same word
or another until one
can no longer distinguish
the presence of silence or
what the silence is there for...
No one can begin anew
naming by turn beast, fowl,
and bush with the exact word.
Beyond the fence the sparse wood Yields;
light enters; nighthawk, owl,
and weasel have fled. To know
the complete absence of fear,
not to fear what is not there
becomes the end, the last brute
quiver of instinct. One moves,
or tries to move, among facts,
naming one's self and one's acts
as if they were real. Dead leaves
cling to the branch, and the root
grips to endure, but no cry
questions the illusion of sky.
THE HOUSE
The cornerstone in Truth is laid,
The guardian walls of Honour made,
The roof of Faith is built above,
The fire upon the hearth is Love:
Though rains descend and loud winds call,
This happy house shall never fall.
THE DOORSTEAD
The lintel low enough to keep out pomp and pride:
The threshold high enough to turn deceit aside:
The doorband strong enough from robbers to defend:
This door will open at a touch to welcome every friend.
THE HEARTHSTONE
When the logs are burning free,
Then the fire is full of glee:
When each heart gives out its best,
Then the talk is full of zest:
Light your fire and never fear,
Life was made for love and cheer.
THE SUN-DIAL
Time can never take
What Time did not give;
When my shadows have all passed,
You shall live.
A stone's throw out on either hand
From that well-ordered road we tread,
And all the world is wild and strange;
Churel and ghoul and Djinn and sprite
Shall bear us company to-night,
For we have reached the Oldest Land
Wherein the powers of Darkness range.
I watched the Moon around the House
Until upon a Pane --
She stopped -- a Traveller's privilege -- for Rest --
And there upon
I gazed -- as at a stranger --
The Lady in the Town
Doth think no incivility
To lift her Glass -- upon --
But never Stranger justified
The Curiosity
Like Mine -- for not a Foot -- nor Hand --
Nor Formula -- had she --
But like a Head -- a Guillotine
Slid carelessly away --
Did independent, Amber --
Sustain her in the sky --
Or like a Stemless Flower --
Upheld in rolling Air
By finer Gravitations --
Than bind Philosopher --
No Hunger -- had she -- nor an Inn --
Her Toilette -- to suffice --
Nor Avocation nor Concern
for little Mysteries
As harass us -- like Life -- and Death --
And Afterwards -- or Nay --
But seemed engrossed to Absolute --
With shining -- and the Sky --
The privilege to scrutinize
Was scarce upon my Eyes
When, with a Silver practise --
She vaulted out of Gaze --
And next -- I met her on a Cloud --
Myself too far below
To follow her superior Road --
Or its advantage -- Blue --
Waking to the early morning sound
Of a single trolling motor
Off in the misty distance
With the scent of pristine pine
Breezing gently through the open window;
Sunlight peeking through the rising mist
Slanting onto sand scuffed floors,
A damp bathing suit lies crumpled
In the corner
Waiting for another early morning dip;
Scent of good strong coffee drifting
Through the open doorway
Mixed with subtle lakey  smell
Stirring senses to awaken
And greet this lovely summer morning;
Soon  barking dogs and laughing children
Will mingle with the incessant honking
Of Canadian geese
Wandering aimlessly along the lakefront
In search of tasty morsels washed ashore;
I must go find my special mug....
Feet propped on the railing
Of the deck with chairback tilted
Against the sunsplashed shingles
Gazing out across the sparkling ripples;
A sailboat in the distance dips
Dangerously toward the surface
As the sail scoops water
And the occupant dumps
Into the chilly wake up wetness;
A yell from the startled sailor
Breaks the hazy coffee daydream
It's time to snap out of memories
And take up the tasks at hand.....
Just another lake house morning.
I went to Love's old treasure house last night,
Alone, when all the world was still -- asleep,
And saw the miser Memory, grown gray
With years of jealous counting of his gems,
There seated. Keen was his eye, his hand
Firm as when first his hoarding he began
Of precious things of Love, long years ago.
"And this," he said, "is gold from out her hair,
And this the moonlight that she wandered in,
With here a rose, enamelled by her breath,
That bloomed in glory 'tween her breasts, and here
The brimming sun-cup that she quaffed at noon,
And here the star that cheered her in the night;
In this great chest, see curiously wrought,
Are purest of Love's gems." A ruby key,
Enclasped upon a golden ring, he took,
With care, from out some secret hiding-place,
And delicately touched the lock, whereat
I staggered, blinded by the light of things
More luminous than stars, and questioned thus --
"What are these treasures, miser Memory?"
And slowly bending his gray head, he spoke:
"These are the multitudes of kisses sweet
Love gave so gladly, and I treasure here."
In the burned house I am eating breakfast.
You understand: there is no house, there is no breakfast,
yet here I am.
The spoon which was melted scrapes against
the bowl which was melted also.
No one else is around.
Where have they gone to, brother and sister,
mother and father? Off along the shore,
perhaps. Their clothes are still on the hangers,
their dishes piled beside the sink,
which is beside the woodstove
with its grate and sooty kettle,
every detail clear,
tin cup and rippled mirror.
The day is bright and songless,
the lake is blue, the forest watchful.
In the east a bank of cloud
rises up silently like dark bread.
I can see the swirls in the oilcloth,
I can see the flaws in the glass,
those flares where the sun hits them.
I can't see my own arms and legs
or know if this is a trap or blessing,
finding myself back here, where everything
in this house has long been over,
kettle and mirror, spoon and bowl,
including my own body,
including the body I had then,
including the body I have now
as I sit at this morning table, alone and happy,
bare child's feet on the scorched floorboards
(I can almost see)
in my burning clothes, the thin green shorts
and grubby yellow T-shirt
holding my cindery, non-existent,
radiant flesh. Incandescent.
The house was empty and
the people of the house
gone many months
Months for the weevil
for the patient worm
timbe r-mole softly tunnelling
;for the parliament of rats
Footsteps slink past
damp walls
down
long
& nbsp;     corridors
< br>Slow feet
warily scuff
bare boards
The much-bitten
&nbs p;tapestry
;  holds
&nb sp;     many
&n bsp;    moths
In a certain curtain'd room
the halting steps evade
chai rs white shrouded
To twitch the winding-sheet
&n bsp;around a grand piano
thin phalanx of sound
sharp rat's teeth edge yellow
with decay
The much-bitten
&nbs p;tapestry
;holds
man y
moths
On rat's teeth-edge
;fingers preparate
hesitate
Then falling send
as tenantry
darnp-muffied chords
rus ting strings
a still-born song
Their fortissimo
The tattered
scarce
tapestry
stirs
holds
near
many
cobwebs
moths
And this reft house is that the which he built,
Lamented Jack ! And here his malt he pil'd,
Cautious in vain ! These rats that squeak so wild,
Squeak, not unconscious of their father's guilt.
Did ye not see her gleaming thro' the glade ?
Belike, 'twas she, the maiden all forlorn.
What though she milk no cow with crumpled horn,
Yet aye she haunts the dale where erst she stray'd ;
And aye beside her stalks her amorous knight !
Still on his thighs their wonted brogues are worn,
And thro' those brogues, still tatter'd and betorn,
His hindward charms gleam an unearthly white ;
As when thro' broken clouds at night's high noon
Peeps in fair fragments forth the full-orb'd harvest-moon !
14
One Sister have I in our house,
And one, a hedge away.
There's only one recorded,
But both belong to me.
One came the road that I came—
And wore my last year's gown—
The other, as a bird her nest,
Builded our hearts among.
She did not sing as we did—
It was a different tune—
Herself to her a music
As Bumble bee of June.
Today is far from Childhood—
But up and down the hills
I held her hand the tighter—
Which shortened all the miles—
And still her hum
The years among,
Deceives the Butterfly;
Still in her Eye
The Violets lie
Mouldered this many May.
I spilt the dew—
But took the morn—
I chose this single star
From out the wide night's numbers—
Sue - forevermore!
Severe against the pleasant arc of sky
The great stone box is cruelly displayed.
The street becomes more dreary from its shade,
And vagrant breezes touch its walls and die.
Here sullen convicts in their chains might lie,
Or slaves toil dumbly at some dreary trade.
How worse than folly is their labor made
Who cleft the rocks that this might rise on high!
Yet, as I look, I see a woman's face
Gleam from a window far above the street.
This is a house of homes, a sacred place,
By human passion made divinely sweet.
How all the building thrills with sudden grace
Beneath the magic of Love's golden feet!
IT fell on a day, and a bonnie simmer day,
When green grew aits and barley,
That there fell out a great dispute
Between Argyll and Airlie.
Argyll has raised an hunder men,
An hunder harness'd rarely,
And he 's awa' by the back of Dunkell,
To plunder the castle of Airlie.
Lady Ogilvie looks o'er her bower-window,
And O but she looks warely!
And there she spied the great Argyll,
Come to plunder the bonnie house of Airlie.
'Come down, come down, my Lady Ogilvie,
Come down and kiss me fairly:'
'O I winna kiss the fause Argyll,
If he shouldna leave a standing stane in Airlie.'
He hath taken her by the left shoulder,
Says, 'Dame, where lies thy dowry?'
'O it 's east and west yon wan water side,
And it 's down by the banks of the Airlie.'
They hae sought it up, they hae sought it down,
They hae sought it maist severely,
Till they fand it in the fair plum-tree
That shines on the bowling-green of Airlie.
He hath taken her by the middle sae small,
And O but she grat sairly!
And laid her down by the bonnie burn-side,
Til they plunder'd the castle of Airlie.
'Gif my gude lord war here this night,
As he is with King Charlie,
Neither you, nor ony ither Scottish lord,
Durst avow to the plundering of Airlie.
'Gif my gude lord war now at hame,
As he is with his king,
There durst nae a Campbell in a' Argyll
Set fit on Airlie green.
'Then bonnie sons I have borne unto him,
The eleventh ne'er saw his daddy;
But though I had an hunder mair,
I'd gie them a' to King Charlie!'
The bustle in a house
The morning after death
Is solemnest of industries
Enacted upon earth,-
The sweeping up the heart,
And putting love away
We shall not want to use again
Until eternity.
BY the City Dead-House, by the gate,
As idly sauntering, wending my way from the clangor,
I curious pause--for lo! an outcast form, a poor dead prostitute
brought;
Her corpse they deposit unclaim'd--it lies on the damp brick
pavement;
The divine woman, her body--I see the Body--I look on it alone,
That house once full of passion and beauty--all else I notice not;
Nor stillness so cold, nor running water from faucet, nor odors
morbific impress me;
But the house alone--that wondrous house--that delicate fair house--
that ruin!
That immortal house, more than all the rows of dwellings ever built!
Or white-domed Capitol itself, with majestic figure surmounted--or
all the old high-spired cathedrals;                          10
That little house alone, more than them all--poor, desperate house!
Fair, fearful wreck! tenement of a Soul! itself a Soul!
Unclaim'd, avoided house! take one breath from my tremulous lips;
Take one tear, dropt aside as I go, for thought of you,
Dead house of love! house of madness and sin, crumbled! crush'd!
House of life--erewhile talking and laughing--but ah, poor house!
dead, even then;
Months, years, an echoing, garnish'd house--but dead, dead, dead.
Where a faint light shines alone,
Dwells a Demon I have known.
Most of you had better say
"The Dark House," and go your way.
Do not wonder if I stay.
For I know the Demon's eyes
And their lure that never dies.
Banish all your fond alarms,
For I know the foiling charms
Of her eyes and of her arms,
And I know that in one room
Burns a lamp as in a tomb;
And I see the shadow glide,
Back and forth, of one denied
Power to find herself outside.
There he is who was my friend,
Damned, he fancies, to the end--
Vanquished, ever since a door
Closed, he thought, for evermore
On the life that was before.
And the friend who knows him best
Sees him as he sees the rest
Who are striving to be wise
While a Demon's arms and eyes
Hold them as a web would flies.
All the words of all the world,
Aimed together, and then hurled,
Would be stiller in his ears
Than a closing of still shears
On a thread made out of years.
But there lives another sound,
More compelling, more profound;
There's a music, so it seems,
That assuages and redeems,
More than reason, more than dreams.
There's a music yet unheard
By the creature of the word,
Though it matters little more
Than a wave-wash on the shore--
Till a Demon shuts a door.
So, if he be very still
With his Demon, and one will,
Murmurs of it may be blown
To my friend who is alone
In a room that I have known.
After that from everywhere
Singing life will find him there;
And my friend, again outside,
Will be living, having died.
Dusk in the rain-soaked garden,
And dark the house within.
A door creaked: someone was early
To watch the dawn begin.
But he stole away like a thief
In the chilly, star-bright air:
Though the house was shuttered for slumber,
He had left one wakeful there.
Nothing moved in the garden.
Never a bird would sing,
Nor shake and scatter the dew from the boughs
With shy and startled wing.
But when that lover had passed the gate
A quavering thrush began...
‘Come back; come back!’ he shrilled to the heart
Of the passion-plighted man.
Life and Thought have gone away
Side by side,
Leaving door and windows wide.
Careless tenants they!
All within is dark as night:
In the windows is no light;
And no murmur at the door,
So frequent on its hinge before.
Close the door; the shutters close;
Or through the windows we shall see
The nakedness and vacancy
Of the dark deserted house.
Come away: no more of mirth
Is here or merry-making sound.
The house was builded of the earth,
And shall fall again to ground.
Come away: for Life and Thought
Here no longer dwell;
But in a city glorious -
A great and distant city -have bought
A mansion incorruptible.
Would they could have stayed with us!
All ye good people, afar and near,
To my request pray lend an ear;
I advise you all without delay to go
And see the Fair Maid's House - it is a rare show.
Some of the chairs there are very grand,
They have been cut and carved by a skilful hand;
And kings, perchance, if fhe truth were told,
Have sat on them in days of old.
King James the First of Scotland was murdered there,
And his cries for mercy rent the air.
But the Highland robbers only laughed at him,
And murdered him in the dungeon and thought if no sin.
Then there's an ancient shrine upstairs,
Where the Monks and Saints said their prayers,
To the Holy Virgin, be it told;
And the house, it is said, is six hundred years old.
The old cruisie lamps are there to be seen,
Which let the monks see to write from their sheen,
Arld if the walls could speak, they could tell a fearful tale,
Which would make the people's cheeks turn pale.
Then there's an old claymore dug up from Culloden Moor,
Which in its time shed innocent blood, I am sure,
If not at Culloden Moor, some other place,
Which no doubt the truth of it history might trace.
The interior of the house is magnificent to be seen,
And the wood panelling, I'm sure, would please the Queen;
And the old fire-place, with its big fire,
Is all that visitors could desire.
Then there's a ring in a big stone near by the door,
Where gentlemen tethered their horses in days of yore;
And on the staircase door there's a firling pin
For making a rattling noise when anyone wanted in.
The mistress of the house is very kind,
A more affable woman would be herd to find;
And to visitors she is very good,
And well versed in history, be it understood.
Here, as in childhood, Brother, no one knows us.
And someone has died, and someone is not yet
born, while our father walks through his church at night
and sets all the clocks for spring.  His sleeplessness
weighs heavy on my forehead, his death almost
nothing. in the only letter he wrote to us
he says, No one can tell how long it takes a seed
to declare what death and lightning told it
while it slept.  But stand at a window long enough,
late enough, and you may some night hear
a secret you'll tomorrow, parallel to the morning,
tell on a wide, white bed, to a woman
like a sown ledge of wheat.  Or you may never
tell it, who lean across the night and miles of the sea,
to arrive at a seed, in whose lamplit house
resides a thorn, or a wee man, carving
a name on a stone, at afluctuating table of water,
the name of the one who has died, the name of the one
not born unknown.  Someone has died.  Someone
is not yet born.  And during this black interval,
I sweep all three floors of our father's house,
and I don't count the broom strokes; I row
up and down for nothing but love: his for me, and my own
for the threshold, as well as for the woman's name
I hear while I sweep, as though she swept
beside me, a woman who, if she owns a face at all,
it is its own changing; and if I know her name
I know to say it so softly she need not
stop her work to hear me.  But when she lies down
at night, in the room of our arrival, she'll know
I called her, though she won't answer, who is on her way
to sleep, until morning, which even now,
is overwhelming, the woman combing her hair opposite
the direction of my departure.
And only now and then do I lean at a jamb
to see'if I can see what I thought I heard.
I heard her ask, My love, why can't you sleep?
and answer, Someone has died, and someone
is not yet born.  Meanwhile, I hear the voices
of women telling a story in the round,
so I sit down on a rain-eaten stoop, by the saltgrasses,
and go on folding the laundry I was folding,
the everyday clothes of our everyday life, the death
clothes wearing us clean to the bone, to the very
ilium crest, where my right hand, this hand, half
crab, part bird, has often come to rest on her,
whose name I know.  And because I sat down,
I hear their folding sound, and know
the tide is rising early, and I can't hope
to trap their story told in the round.  But the woman
whose name I know says, Sleep, so I lie down
on the clothes, the folded and unfolded, the life
and the death.  Ages go by When I wake, the story
has changed the firmament into domain, domain
into a house.  And the sun speaks the day,
unnaming, showing the story, dissipating the boundaries
of the telling, to include the one who has died
and the one not yet born.  Someone has died
and someone is not yet born.  How still
this morning grows about the voice of one
child reading to another, how much a house
is house at all due to one room where an elder
child reads to his brother, and that younger
knows by heart the brother-voice.  How darker
other rooms stand, how slow morning comes, collected
in a name, told at one sill and listened for
at the threshold of dew What book is this we read
together, Brother, and at which window
of our father's house?  In which upper room?
We read it twice: Once in two voices, to each
other; once in unison, to children,
animals, and the sun, our star, that vast office
of love, the one we sit in once, and read
together twice, the third time bosomed in
the future.  So birds may lend their church, sown
in air, realized in the body uttering
windows, growing rafters, couching seeds.
Love I was shewn upon the mountain-side
And bid to catch Him ere the dropp of day.
See, Love, I creep and Thou on wings dost ride:
Love it is evening now and Thou away;
Love, it grows darker here and Thou art above;
Love, come down to me if Thy name be Love.
My national old Egyptian reed gave way;
I took of vine a cross-barred rod or rood.
Then next I hungered:  Love when here, they say,
Or once or never took love's proper food;
But I must yield the chase, or rest and eat. -
Peace and food cheered me where four rough ways meet.
Hear yet my paradox:  Love, when all is given,
To see Thee I must [see] Thee, to love, love;
I must o'ertake Thee at once and under heaven
If I shall overtake Thee at last above.
You have your wish; enter these walls, one said:
He is with you in the breaking of the bread.
We caught the tread of dancing feet,
We loitered down the moonlit street,
And stopped beneath the harlot's house.
Inside, above the din and fray,
We heard the loud musicians play
The "Treues Liebes Herz" of Strauss.
Like strange mechanical grotesques,
Making fantastic arabesques,
The shadows raced across the blind.
We watched the ghostly dancers spin
To sound of horn and violin,
Like black leaves wheeling in the wind.
Like wire-pulled automatons,
Slim silhouetted skeletons
Went sidling through the slow quadrille.
They took each other by the hand,
And danced a stately saraband;
Their laughter echoed thin and shrill.
Sometimes a clockwork puppet pressed
A phantom lover to her breast,
Sometimes they seemed to try to sing.
Sometimes a horrible marionette
Came out, and smaoked its cigarette
Upon the steps like a live thing.
Then, turning to my love, I said,
"The dead are dancing with the dead,
The dust is whirling with the dust."
But she--she heard the violin,
And left my side, and entered in:
Love passed into the house of lust.
Then suddenly the tune went false,
The shadows wearied of the waltz,
The shadows ceased to wheel and whirl.
And down the long and silent street,
The dawn, with silver-sandalled feet,
Crept like a frightened girl.
Oh, very gloomy is the house of woe,
Where tears are falling while the bell is knelling,
With all the dark solemnities that show
That Death is in the dwelling!
Oh, very, very dreary is the room
Where Love, domestic Love, no longer nestles,
But smitten by the common stroke of doom,
The corpse lies on the trestles!
But house of woe, and hearse, and sable pall,
The narrow home of the departed mortal,
Ne’er looked so gloomy as that Ghostly Hall,
With its deserted portal!
The centipede along the threshold crept,
The cobweb hung across in mazy tangle,
And in its winding sheet the maggot slept
At every nook and angle.
The keyhole lodged the earwig and her brood,
The emmets of the steps has old possession,
And marched in search of their diurnal food
In undisturbed procession.
As undisturbed as the prehensile cell
Of moth or maggot, or the spider’s tissue,
For never foot upon that threshold fell,
To enter or to issue.
O’er all there hung the shadow of a fear,
A sense of mystery the spirit daunted,
And said, as plain as whisper in the ear,
The place is haunted.
Howbeit, the door I pushed—or so I dreamed--
Which slowly, slowly gaped, the hinges creaking
With such a rusty eloquence, it seemed
That Time himself was speaking.
But Time was dumb within that mansion old,
Or left his tale to the heraldic banners
That hung from the corroded walls, and told
Of former men and manners.
Those tattered flags, that with the opened door,
Seemed the old wave of battle to remember,
While fallen fragments danced upon the floor
Like dead leaves in December.
The startled bats flew out, bird after bird,
The screech-owl overhead began to flutter,
And seemed to mock the cry that she had heard
Some dying victim utter!
A shriek that echoed from the joisted roof,
And up the stair, and further still and further,
Till in some ringing chamber far aloof
In ceased its tale of murther!
Meanwhile the rusty armor rattled round,
The banner shuddered, and the ragged streamer;
All things the horrid tenor of the sound
Acknowledged with a tremor.
The antlers where the helmet hung, and belt,
Stirred as the tempest stirs the forest branches,
Or as the stag had trembled when he felt
The bloodhound at his haunches.
The window jingled in its crumbled frame,
And through its many gaps of destitution
Dolorous moans and hollow sighings came,
Like those of dissolution.
The wood-louse dropped, and rolled into a ball,
Touched by some impulse occult or mechanic;
And nameless beetles ran along the wall
In universal panic.
The subtle spider, that, from overhead,
Hung like a spy on human guilt and error,
Suddenly turned, and up its slender thread
Ran with a nimble terror.
The very stains and fractures on the wall,
Assuming features solemn and terrific,
Hinted some tragedy of that old hall,
Locked up in hieroglyphic.
Some tale that might, perchance, have solved the doubt,
Wherefore, among those flags so dull and livid,
The banner of the bloody hand shone out
So ominously vivid.
Some key to that inscrutable appeal
Which made the very frame of Nature quiver,
And every thrilling nerve and fiber feel
So ague-like a shiver.
For over all there hung a cloud of fear,
A sense of mystery the spirit daunted,
And said, as plain as whisper in the ear,
The place is haunted!
Prophetic hints that filled the soul with dread,
But through one gloomy entrance pointing mostly,
The while some secret inspiration said,
“That chamber is the ghostly!”
Across the door no gossamer festoon
Swung pendulous, --no web, no dusty fringes,
No silky chrysalis or white cocoon,
About its nooks and hinges.
The spider shunned the interdicted room,
The moth, the beetle, and the fly were banished,
And when the sunbeam fell athwart the gloom,
The very midge had vanished.
One lonely ray that glanced upon a bed,
As if with awful aim direct and certain,
To show the Bloody Hand, in burning red,
Embroidered on the curtain.
At the back of the houses there is the wood.
While there is a leaf of summer left, the wood
Makes sounds I can put somewhere in my song,
Has paths I can walk, when I wake, to good
Or evil: to the cage, to the oven, to the House
In the Wood. It is a part of life, or of the story
We make of life. But after the last leaf,
The last light--for each year is leafless,
Each day lightless, at the last--the wood begins
Its serious existence: it has no path,
No house, no story; it resists comparison...
One clear, repeated, lapping gurgle, like a spoon
Or a glass breathing, is the brook,
The wood's fouled midnight water. If I walk into the wood
As far as I can walk, I come to my own door,
The door of the House in the Wood. It opens silently:
On the bed is something covered, something humped
Asleep there, awake there--but what? I do not know.
I look, I lie there, and yet I do not know.
How far out my great echoing clumsy limbs
Stretch, surrounded only by space! For time has struck,
All the clocks are stuck now, for how many lives,
On the same second. Numbed, wooden, motionless,
We are far under the surface of the night.
Nothing comes down so deep but sound: a car, freight cars,
A high soft droning, drawn out like a wire
Forever and ever--is this the sound that Bunyan heard
So that he thought his bowels would burst within him?--
Drift on, on, into nothing. Then someone screams
A scream like an old knife sharpened into nothing.
It is only a nightmare. No one wakes up, nothing happens,
Except there is gooseflesh over my whole body--
And that too, after a little while, is gone.
I lie here like a cut-off limb, the stump the limb has left...
Here at the bottom of the world, what was before the world
And will be after, holds me to its back
Breasts and rocks me: the oven is cold, the cage is empty,
In the House in the Wood, the witch and her child sleep.
I would build a cloudy House
For my thoughts to live in;
When for earth too fancy-loose
And too low for Heaven!
Hush! I talk my dream aloud---
I build it bright to see,---
I build it on the moonlit cloud,
To which I looked with thee.
Cloud-walls of the morning's grey,
Faced with amber column,---
Crowned with crimson cupola
From a sunset solemn!
May mists, for the casements, fetch,
Pale and glimmering;
With a sunbeam hid in each,
And a smell of spring.
Build the entrance high and proud,
Darkening and then brightening,---
If a riven thunder-cloud,
Veined by the lightning.
Use one with an iris-stain,
For the door within;
Turning to a sound like rain,
As I enter in.
Build a spacious hall thereby:
Boldly, never fearing.
Use the blue place of the sky,
Which the wind is clearing;
Branched with corridors sublime,
Flecked with winding stairs---
Such as children wish to climb,
Following their own prayers.
In the mutest of the house,
I will have my chamber:
Silence at the door shall use
Evening's light of amber,
Solemnising every mood,
Softemng in degree,---
Turning sadness into good,
As I turn the key.
Be my chamber tapestried
With the showers of summer,
Close, but soundless,---glorified
When the sunbeams come here;
Wandering harpers, harping on
Waters stringed for such,---
Drawing colours, for a tune,
With a vibrant touch.
Bring a shadow green and still
From the chestnut forest,
Bring a purple from the hill,
When the heat is sorest;
Spread them out from wall to wall,
Carpet-wove around,---
Whereupon the foot shall fall
In light instead of sound.
Bring the fantasque cloudlets home
From the noontide zenith
Ranged, for sculptures, round the room,---
Named as Fancy weeneth:
Some be Junos, without eyes;
Naiads, without sources
Some be birds of paradise,---
Some, Olympian horses.
Bring the dews the birds shake off,
Waking in the hedges,---
Those too, perfumed for a proof,
From the lilies' edges:
From our England's field and moor,
Bring them calm and white in;
Whence to form a mirror pure,
For Love's self-delighting.
Bring a grey cloud from the east,
Where the lark is singing;
Something of the song at least,
Unlost in the bringing:
That shall be a morning chair,
Poet-dream may sit in,
When it leans out on the air,
Unrhymed and unwritten.
Bring the red cloud from the sun
While he sinketh, catch it.
That shall be a couch,---with one
Sidelong star to watch it,---
Fit for poet's finest Thought,
At the curfew-sounding,--- ;
Things unseen being nearer brought
Than the seen, around him.
Poet's thought,----not poet's sigh!
'Las, they come together!
Cloudy walls divide and fly,
As in April weather!
Cupola and column proud,
Structure bright to see---
Gone---except that moonlit cloud,
To which I looked with thee!
Let them! Wipe such visionings
From the Fancy's cartel---
Love secures some fairer things
Dowered with his immortal.
The sun may darken,---heaven be bowed---
But still, unchanged shall be,---
Here in my soul,---that moonlit cloud,
To which I looked with THEE!
I.
The sun goes down in a cold pale flare of light.
The trees grow dark: the shadows lean to the east:
And lights wink out through the windows, one by one.
A clamor of frosty sirens mourns at the night.
Pale slate-grey clouds whirl up from the sunken sun.
And the wandering one, the inquisitive dreamer of dreams,
The eternal asker of answers, stands in the street,
And lifts his palms for the first cold ghost of rain.
The purple lights leap down the hill before him.
The gorgeous night has begun again.
'I will ask them all, I will ask them all their dreams,
I will hold my light above them and seek their faces.
I will hear them whisper, invisible in their veins . . .'
The eternal asker of answers becomes as the darkness,
Or as a wind blown over a myriad forest,
Or as the numberless voices of long-drawn rains.
We hear him and take him among us, like a wind of music,
Like the ghost of a music we have somewhere heard;
We crowd through the streets in a dazzle of pallid lamplight,
We pour in a sinister wave, ascend a stair,
With laughter and cry, and word upon murmured word;
We flow, we descend, we turn . . . and the eternal dreamer
Moves among us like light, like evening air . . .
Good-night!  Good-night!  Good-night!  We go our ways,
The rain runs over the pavement before our feet,
The cold rain falls, the rain sings.
We walk, we run, we ride.  We turn our faces
To what the eternal evening brings.
Our hands are hot and raw with the stones we have laid,
We have built a tower of stone high into the sky,
We have built a city of towers.
Our hands are light, they are singing with emptiness.
Our souls are light; they have shaken a burden of hours . . .
What did we build it for?  Was it all a dream? . . .
Ghostly above us in lamplight the towers gleam . . .
And after a while they will fall to dust and rain;
Or else we will tear them down with impatient hands;
And hew rock out of the earth, and build them again.
II.
One, from his high bright window in a tower,
Leans out, as evening falls,
And sees the advancing curtain of the shower
Splashing its silver on roofs and walls:
Sees how, swift as a shadow, it crosses the city,
And murmurs beyond far walls to the sea,
Leaving a glimmer of water in the dark canyons,
And silver falling from eave and tree.
One, from his high bright window, looking down,
Peers like a dreamer over the rain-bright town,
And thinks its towers are like a dream.
The western windows flame in the sun's last flare,
Pale roofs begin to gleam.
Looking down from a window high in a wall
He sees us all;
Lifting our pallid faces towards the rain,
Searching the sky, and going our ways again,
Standing in doorways, waiting under the trees . . .
There, in the high bright window he dreams, and sees
What we are blind to,—we who mass and crowd
From wall to wall in the darkening of a cloud.
The gulls drift slowly above the city of towers,
Over the roofs to the darkening sea they fly;
Night falls swiftly on an evening of rain.
The yellow lamps wink one by one again.
The towers reach higher and blacker against the sky.
III.
One, where the pale sea foamed at the yellow sand,
With wave upon slowly shattering wave,
Turned to the city of towers as evening fell;
And slowly walked by the darkening road toward it;
And saw how the towers darkened against the sky;
And across the distance heard the toll of a bell.
Along the darkening road he hurried alone,
With his eyes cast down,
And thought how the streets were hoarse with a tide of people,
With clamor of voices, and numberless faces . . .
And it seemed to him, of a sudden, that he would drown
Here in the quiet of evening air,
These empty and voiceless places . . .
And he hurried towards the city, to enter there.
Along the darkening road, between tall trees
That made a sinister whisper, loudly he walked.
Behind him, sea-gulls dipped over long grey seas.
Before him, numberless lovers smiled and talked.
And death was observed with sudden cries,
And birth with laughter and pain.
And the trees grew taller and blacker against the skies
And night came down again.
IV.
Up high black walls, up sombre terraces,
Clinging like luminous birds to the sides of cliffs,
The yellow lights went climbing towards the sky.
From high black walls, gleaming vaguely with rain,
Each yellow light looked down like a golden eye.
They trembled from coign to coign, and tower to tower,
Along high terraces quicker than dream they flew.
And some of them steadily glowed, and some soon vanished,
And some strange shadows threw.
And behind them all the ghosts of thoughts went moving,
Restlessly moving in each lamplit room,
From chair to mirror, from mirror to fire;
From some, the light was scarcely more than a gloom:
From some, a dazzling desire.
And there was one, beneath black eaves, who thought,
Combing with lifted arms her golden hair,
Of the lover who hurried towards her through the night;
And there was one who dreamed of a sudden death
As she blew out her light.
And there was one who turned from clamoring streets,
And walked in lamplit gardens among black trees,
And looked at the windy sky,
And thought with terror how stones and roots would freeze
And birds in the dead boughs cry . . .
And she hurried back, as snow fell, mixed with rain,
To mingle among the crowds again,
To jostle beneath blue lamps along the street;
And lost herself in the warm bright coiling dream,
With a sound of murmuring voices and shuffling feet.
And one, from his high bright window looking down
On luminous chasms that cleft the basalt town,
Hearing a sea-like murmur rise,
Desired to leave his dream, descend from the tower,
And drown in waves of shouts and laughter and cries.
V.
The snow floats down upon us, mingled with rain . . .
It eddies around pale lilac lamps, and falls
Down golden-windowed walls.
We were all born of flesh, in a flare of pain,
We do not remember the red roots whence we rose,
But we know that we rose and walked, that after a while
We shall lie down again.
The snow floats down upon us, we turn, we turn,
Through gorges filled with light we sound and flow . . .
One is struck down and hurt, we crowd about him,
We bear him away, gaze after his listless body;
But whether he lives or dies we do not know.
One of us sings in the street, and we listen to him;
The words ring over us like vague bells of sorrow.
He sings of a house he lived in long ago.
It is strange; this house of dust was the house I lived in;
The house you lived in, the house that all of us know.
And coiling slowly about him, and laughing at him,
And throwing him pennies, we bear away
A mournful echo of other times and places,
And follow a dream . . . a dream that will not stay.
Down long broad flights of lamplit stairs we flow;
Noisy, in scattered waves, crowding and shouting;
In broken slow cascades.
The gardens extend before us . . .  We spread out swiftly;
Trees are above us, and darkness.  The canyon fades . . .
And we recall, with a gleaming stab of sadness,
Vaguely and incoherently, some dream
Of a world we came from, a world of sun-blue hills . . .
A black wood whispers around us, green eyes gleam;
Someone cries in the forest, and someone kills.
We flow to the east, to the white-lined shivering sea;
We reach to the west, where the whirling sun went down;
We close our eyes to music in bright cafees.
We diverge from clamorous streets to streets that are silent.
We loaf where the wind-spilled fountain plays.
And, growing tired, we turn aside at last,
Remember our secret selves, seek out our towers,
Lay weary hands on the banisters, and climb;
Climbing, each, to his little four-square dream
Of love or lust or beauty or death or crime.
VI.
Over the darkened city, the city of towers,
The city of a thousand gates,
Over the gleaming terraced roofs, the huddled towers,
Over a somnolent whisper of loves and hates,
The slow wind flows, drearily streams and falls,
With a mournful sound down rain-dark walls.
On one side purples the lustrous dusk of the sea,
And dreams in white at the city's feet;
On one side sleep the plains, with heaped-up hills.
Oaks and beeches whisper in rings about it.
Above the trees are towers where dread bells beat.
The fisherman draws his streaming net from the sea
And sails toward the far-off city, that seems
Like one vague tower.
The dark bow plunges to foam on blue-black waves,
And shrill rain seethes like a ghostly music about him
In a quiet shower.
Rain with a shrill sings on the lapsing waves;
Rain thrills over the roofs again;
Like a shadow of shifting silver it crosses the city;
The lamps in the streets are streamed with rain;
And sparrows complain beneath deep eaves,
And among whirled leaves
The sea-gulls, blowing from tower to lower tower,
From wall to remoter wall,
Skim with the driven rain to the rising sea-sound
And close grey wings and fall . . .
. . . Hearing great rain above me, I now remember
A girl who stood by the door and shut her eyes:
Her pale cheeks glistened with rain, she stood and shivered.
Into a forest of silver she vanished slowly . . .
Voices about me rise . . .
Voices clear and silvery, voices of raindrops,—
'We struck with silver claws, we struck her down.
We are the ghosts of the singing furies . . . '
A chorus of elfin voices blowing about me
Weaves to a babel of sound.  Each cries a secret.
I run among them, reach out vain hands, and drown.
'I am the one who stood beside you and smiled,
Thinking your face so strangely young . . . '
'I am the one who loved you but did not dare.'
'I am the one you followed through crowded streets,
The one who escaped you, the one with red-gleamed hair.'
'I am the one you saw to-day, who fell
Senseless before you, hearing a certain bell:
A bell that broke great memories in my brain.'
'I am the one who passed unnoticed before you,
Invisible, in a cloud of secret pain.'
'I am the one who suddenly cried, beholding
The face of a certain man on the dazzling screen.
They wrote me that he was dead.  It was long ago.
I walked in the streets for a long while, hearing nothing,
And returned to see it again.  And it was so.'
Weave, weave, weave, you streaks of rain!
I am dissolved and woven again . . .
Thousands of faces rise and vanish before me.
Thousands of voices weave in the rain.
'I am the one who rode beside you, blinking
At a dazzle of golden lights.
Tempests of music swept me: I was thinking
Of the gorgeous promise of certain nights:
Of the woman who suddenly smiled at me this day,
Smiled in a certain delicious sidelong way,
And turned, as she reached the door,
To smile once more . . .
Her hands are whiter than snow on midnight water.
Her throat is golden and full of golden laughter,
Her eyes are strange as the stealth of the moon
On a night in June . . .
She runs among whistling leaves; I hurry after;
She dances in dreams over white-waved water;
Her body is white and fragrant and cool,
Magnolia petals that float on a white-starred pool . . .
I have dreamed of her, dreaming for many nights
Of a broken music and golden lights,
Of broken webs of silver, heavily falling
Between my hands and their white desire:
And dark-leaved boughs, edged with a golden radiance,
Dipping to screen a fire . . .
I dream that I walk with her beneath high trees,
But as I lean to kiss her face,
She is blown aloft on wind, I catch at leaves,
And run in a moonless place;
And I hear a crashing of terrible rocks flung down,
And shattering trees and cracking walls,
And a net of intense white flame roars over the town,
And someone cries; and darkness falls . . .
But now she has leaned and smiled at me,
My veins are afire with music,
Her eyes have kissed me, my body is turned to light;
I shall dream to her secret heart tonight . . . '
He rises and moves away, he says no word,
He folds his evening paper and turns away;
I rush through the dark with rows of lamplit faces;
Fire bells peal, and some of us turn to listen,
And some sit motionless in their accustomed places.
Cold rain lashes the car-roof, scurries in gusts,
Streams down the windows in waves and ripples of lustre;
The lamps in the streets are distorted and strange.
Someone takes his watch from his pocket and yawns.
One peers out in the night for the place to change.
Rain . . . rain . . . rain . . . we are buried in rain,
It will rain forever, the swift wheels hiss through water,
Pale sheets of water gleam in the windy street.
The pealing of bells is lost in a drive of rain-drops.
Remote and hurried the great bells beat.
'I am the one whom life so shrewdly betrayed,
Misfortune dogs me, it always hunted me down.
And to-day the woman I love lies dead.
I gave her roses, a ring with opals;
These hands have touched her head.
'I bound her to me in all soft ways,
I bound her to me in a net of days,
Yet now she has gone in silence and said no word.
How can we face these dazzling things, I ask you?
There is no use: we cry: and are not heard.
'They cover a body with roses . . . I shall not see it . . .
Must one return to the lifeless walls of a city
Whose soul is charred by fire? . . . '
His eyes are closed, his lips press tightly together.
Wheels hiss beneath us.  He yields us our desire.
'No, do not stare so—he is weak with grief,
He cannot face you, he turns his eyes aside;
He is confused with pain.
I suffered this.  I know.  It was long ago . . .
He closes his eyes and drowns in death again.'
The wind hurls blows at the rain-starred glistening windows,
The wind shrills down from the half-seen walls.
We flow on the mournful wind in a dream of dying;
And at last a silence falls.
VII.
Midnight; bells toll, and along the cloud-high towers
The golden lights go out . . .
The yellow windows darken, the shades are drawn,
In thousands of rooms we sleep, we await the dawn,
We lie face down, we dream,
We cry aloud with terror, half rise, or seem
To stare at the ceiling or walls . . .
Midnight . . . the last of shattering bell-notes falls.
A rush of silence whirls over the cloud-high towers,
A vortex of soundless hours.
'The bells have just struck twelve: I should be sleeping.
But I cannot delay any longer to write and tell you.
The woman is dead.
She died—you know the way.  Just as we planned.
Smiling, with open sunlit eyes.
Smiling upon the outstretched fatal hand . . .'
He folds his letter, steps softly down the stairs.
The doors are closed and silent.  A gas-jet flares.
His shadow disturbs a shadow of balustrades.
The door swings shut behind.  Night roars above him.
Into the night he fades.
Wind; wind; wind; carving the walls;
Blowing the water that gleams in the street;
Blowing the rain, the sleet.
In the dark alley, an old tree cracks and falls,
Oak-boughs moan in the haunted air;
Lamps blow down with a crash and tinkle of glass . . .
Darkness whistles . . . Wild hours pass . . .
And those whom sleep eludes lie wide-eyed, hearing
Above their heads a goblin night go by;
Children are waked, and cry,
The young girl hears the roar in her sleep, and dreams
That her lover is caught in a burning tower,
She clutches the pillow, she gasps for breath, she screams . . .
And then by degrees her breath grows quiet and slow,
She dreams of an evening, long ago:
Of colored lanterns balancing under trees,
Some of them softly catching afire;
And beneath the lanterns a motionless face she sees,
Golden with lamplight, smiling, serene . . .
The leaves are a pale and glittering green,
The sound of horns blows over the trampled grass,
Shadows of dancers pass . . .
The face smiles closer to hers, she tries to lean
Backward, away, the eyes burn close and strange,
The face is beginning to change,—
It is her lover, she no longer desires to resist,
She is held and kissed.
She closes her eyes, and melts in a seethe of flame . . .
With a smoking ghost of shame . . .
Wind, wind, wind . . .  Wind in an enormous brain
Blowing dark thoughts like fallen leaves . . .
The wind shrieks, the wind grieves;
It dashes the leaves on walls, it whirls then again;
And the enormous sleeper vaguely and stupidly dreams
And desires to stir, to resist a ghost of pain.
One, whom the city imprisoned because of his cunning,
Who dreamed for years in a tower,
Seizes this hour
Of tumult and wind.  He files through the rusted bar,
Leans his face to the rain, laughs up at the night,
Slides down the knotted sheet, swings over the wall,
To fall to the street with a cat-like fall,
Slinks round a quavering rim of windy light,
And at last is gone,
Leaving his empty cell for the pallor of dawn . . .
The mother whose child was buried to-day
Turns her face to the window; her face is grey;
And all her body is cold with the coldness of rain.
He would have grown as easily as a tree,
He would have spread a pleasure of shade above her,
He would have been his father again . . .
His growth was ended by a freezing invisible shadow.
She lies, and does not move, and is stabbed by the rain.
Wind, wind, wind; we toss and dream;
We dream we are clouds and stars, blown in a stream:
Windows rattle above our beds;
We reach vague-gesturing hands, we lift our heads,
Hear sounds far off,—and dream, with quivering breath,
Our curious separate ways through life and death.
VIII.
The white fog creeps from the cold sea over the city,
Over the pale grey tumbled towers,—
And settles among the roofs, the pale grey walls.
Along damp sinuous streets it crawls,
Curls like a dream among the motionless trees
And seems to freeze.
The fog slips ghostlike into a thousand rooms,
Whirls over sleeping faces,
Spins in an atomy dance round misty street lamps;
And blows in cloudy waves over open spaces . . .
And one from his high window, looking down,
Peers at the cloud-white town,
And thinks its island towers are like a dream . . .
It seems an enormous sleeper, within whose brain
Laborious shadows revolve and break and gleam.
PART II.
I.
The round red sun heaves darkly out of the sea.
The walls and towers are warmed and gleam.
Sounds go drowsily up from streets and wharves.
The city stirs like one that is half in dream.
And the mist flows up by dazzling walls and windows,
Where one by one we wake and rise.
We gaze at the pale grey lustrous sea a moment,
We rub the darkness from our eyes,
And face our thousand devious secret mornings . . .
And do not see how the pale mist, slowly ascending,
Shaped by the sun, shines like a white-robed dreamer
Compassionate over our towers bending.
There, like one who gazes into a crystal,
He broods upon our city with sombre eyes;
He sees our secret fears vaguely unfolding,
Sees cloudy symbols shape to rise.
Each gleaming point of light is like a seed
Dilating swiftly to coiling fires.
Each cloud becomes a rapidly dimming face,
Each hurrying face records its strange desires.
We descend our separate stairs toward the day,
Merge in the somnolent mass that fills the street,
Lift our eyes to the soft blue space of sky,
And walk by the well-known walls with accustomed feet.
II. THE FULFILLED DREAM
More towers must yet be built—more towers destroyed—
Great rocks hoisted in air;
And he must seek his bread in high pale sunlight
With gulls about him, and clouds just over his eyes . . .
And so he did not mention his dream of falling
But drank his coffee in silence, and heard in his ears
That horrible whistle of wind, and felt his breath
Sucked out of him, and saw the tower flash by
And the small tree swell beneath him . . .
He patted his boy on the head, and kissed his wife,
Looked quickly around the room, to remember it,—
And so went out . . .  For once, he forgot his pail.
Something had changed—but it was not the street—
The street was just the same—it was himself.
Puddles flashed in the sun.  In the pawn-shop door
The same old black cat winked green amber eyes;
The butcher stood by his window tying his apron;
The same men walked beside him, smoking pipes,
Reading the morning paper . . .
He would not yield, he thought, and walk more slowly,
As if he knew for certain he walked to death:
But with his usual pace,—deliberate, firm,
Looking about him calmly, watching the world,
Taking his ease . . .  Yet, when he thought again
Of the same dream, now dreamed three separate times,
Always the same, and heard that whistling wind,
And saw the windows flashing upward past him,—
He slowed his pace a little, and thought with horror
How monstrously that small tree thrust to meet him! . . .
He slowed his pace a little and remembered his wife.
Was forty, then, too old for work like this?
Why should it be?  He'd never been afraid—
His eye was sure, his hand was steady . . .
But dreams had meanings.
He walked more slowly, and looked along the roofs,
All built by men, and saw the pale blue sky;
And suddenly he was dizzy with looking at it,
It seemed to whirl and swim,
It seemed the color of terror, of speed, of death . . .
He lowered his eyes to the stones, he walked more slowly;
His thoughts were blown and scattered like leaves;
He thought of the pail . . . Why, then, was it forgotten?
Because he would not need it?
Then, just as he was grouping his thoughts again
About that drug-store corner, under an arc-lamp,
Where first he met the girl whom he would marry,—
That blue-eyed innocent girl, in a soft blouse,—
He waved his hand for signal, and up he went
In the dusty chute that hugged the wall;
Above the tree; from girdered floor to floor;
Above the flattening roofs, until the sea
Lay wide and waved before him . . . And then he stepped
Giddily out, from that security,
To the red rib of iron against the sky,
And walked along it, feeling it sing and tremble;
And looking down one instant, saw the tree
Just as he dreamed it was; and looked away,
And up again, feeling his blood go wild.
He gave the signal; the long girder swung
Closer to him, dropped clanging into place,
Almost pushing him off.  Pneumatic hammers
Began their madhouse clatter, the white-hot rivets
Were tossed from below and deftly caught in pails;
He signalled again, and wiped his mouth, and thought
A place so high in the air should be more quiet.
The tree, far down below, teased at his eyes,
Teased at the corners of them, until he looked,
And felt his body go suddenly small and light;
Felt his brain float off like a dwindling vapor;
And heard a whistle of wind, and saw a tree
Come plunging up to him, and thought to himself,
'By God—I'm done for now, the dream was right . . .'
III. INTERLUDE
The warm sun dreams in the dust, the warm sun falls
On bright red roofs and walls;
The trees in the park exhale a ghost of rain;
We go from door to door in the streets again,
Talking, laughing, dreaming, turning our faces,
Recalling other times and places . . .
We crowd, not knowing why, around a gate,
We crowd together and wait,
A stretcher is carried out, voices are stilled,
The ambulance drives away.
We watch its roof flash by, hear someone say
'A man fell off the building and was killed—
Fell right into a barrel . . .'  We turn again
Among the frightened eyes of white-faced men,
And go our separate ways, each bearing with him
A thing he tries, but vainly, to forget,—
A sickened crowd, a stretcher red and wet.
A hurdy-gurdy sings in the crowded street,
The golden notes skip over the sunlit stones,
Wings are upon our feet.
The sun seems warmer, the winding street more bright,
Sparrows come whirring down in a cloud of light.
We bear our dreams among us, bear them all,
Like hurdy-gurdy music they rise and fall,
Climb to beauty and die.
The wandering lover dreams of his lover's mouth,
And smiles at the hostile sky.
The broker smokes his pipe, and sees a fortune.
The murderer hears a cry.
IV. NIGHTMARE
'Draw three cards, and I will tell your future . . .
Draw three cards, and lay them down,
Rest your palms upon them, stare at the crystal,
And think of time . . . My father was a clown,
My mother was a gypsy out of Egypt;
And she was gotten with child in a strange way;
And I was born in a cold eclipse of the moon,
With the future in my eyes as clear as day.'
I sit before the gold-embroidered curtain
And think her face is like a wrinkled desert.
The crystal burns in lamplight beneath my eyes.
A dragon slowly coils on the scaly curtain.
Upon a scarlet cloth a white skull lies.
'Your hand is on the hand that holds three lilies.
You will live long, love many times.
I see a dark girl here who once betrayed you.
I see a shadow of secret crimes.
'There was a man who came intent to kill you,
And hid behind a door and waited for you;
There was a woman who smiled at you and lied.
There was a golden girl who loved you, begged you,
Crawled after you, and died.
'There is a ghost of murder in your blood—
Coming or past, I know not which.
And here is danger—a woman with sea-green eyes,
And white-skinned as a witch . . .'
The words hiss into me, like raindrops falling
On sleepy fire . . . She smiles a meaning smile.
Suspicion eats my brain; I ask a question;
Something is creeping at me, something vile;
And suddenly on the wall behind her head
I see a monstrous shadow strike and spread,
The lamp puffs out, a great blow crashes down.
I plunge through the curtain, run through dark to the street,
And hear swift steps retreat . . .
The shades are drawn, the door is locked behind me.
Behind the door I hear a hammer sounding.
I walk in a cloud of wonder; I am glad.
I mingle among the crowds; my heart is pounding;
You do not guess the adventure I have had! . . .
Yet you, too, all have had your dark adventures,
Your sudden adventures, or strange, or sweet . . .
My peril goes out from me, is blown among you.
We loiter, dreaming together, along the street.
V. RETROSPECT
Round white clouds roll slowly above the housetops,
Over the clear red roofs they flow and pass.
A flock of pigeons rises with blue wings flashing,
Rises with whistle of wings, hovers an instant,
And settles slowly again on the tarnished grass.
And one old man looks down from a dusty window
And sees the pigeons circling about the fountain
And desires once more to walk among those trees.
Lovers walk in the noontime by that fountain.
Pigeons dip their beaks to drink from the water.
And soon the pond must freeze.
The light wind blows to his ears a sound of laughter,
Young men shuffle their feet, loaf in the sunlight;
A girl's laugh rings like a silver bell.
But clearer than all these sounds is a sound he hears
More in his secret heart than in his ears,—
A hammer's steady crescendo, like a knell.
He hears the snarl of pineboards under the plane,
The rhythmic saw, and then the hammer again,—
Playing with delicate strokes that sombre scale . . .
And the fountain dwindles, the sunlight seems to pale.
Time is a dream, he thinks, a destroying dream;
It lays great cities in dust, it fills the seas;
It covers the face of beauty, and tumbles walls.
Where was the woman he loved?  Where was his youth?
Where was the dream that burned his brain like fire?
Even a dream grows grey at last and falls.
He opened his book once more, beside the window,
And read the printed words upon that page.
The sunlight touched his hand; his eyes moved slowly,
The quiet words enchanted time and age.
'Death is never an ending, death is a change;
Death is beautiful, for death is strange;
Death is one dream out of another flowing;
Death is a chorded music, softly going
By sweet transition from key to richer key.
Death is a meeting place of sea and sea.'
VI. ADELE AND DAVIS
She turned her head on the pillow, and cried once more.
And drawing a shaken breath, and closing her eyes,
To shut out, if she could, this dingy room,
The wigs and costumes scattered around the floor,—
Yellows and greens in the dark,—she walked again
Those nightmare streets which she had walked so often . . .
Here, at a certain corner, under an arc-lamp,
Blown by a bitter wind, she stopped and looked
In through the brilliant windows of a drug-store,
And wondered if she dared to ask for poison:
But it was late, few customers were there,
The eyes of all the clerks would freeze upon her,
And she would wilt, and cry . . .  Here, by the river,
She listened to the water slapping the wall,
And felt queer fascination in its blackness:
But it was cold, the little waves looked cruel,
The stars were keen, and a windy dash of spray
Struck her cheek, and withered her veins . . . And so
She dragged herself once more to home, and bed.
Paul hadn't guessed it yet—though twice, already,
She'd fainted—once, the first time, on the stage.
So she must tell him soon—or else—get out . . .
How could she say it?  That was the hideous thing.
She'd rather die than say it! . . . and all the trouble,
Months when she couldn't earn a cent, and then,
If he refused to marry her . . . well, what?
She saw him laughing, making a foolish joke,
His grey eyes turning quickly; and the words
Fled from her tongue . . .  She saw him sitting silent,
Brooding over his morning coffee, maybe,
And tried again . . . she bit her lips, and trembled,
And looked away, and said . . . 'Say Paul, boy,—listen—
There's something I must tell you . . . '  There she stopped,
Wondering what he'd say . . .  What would he say?
'Spring it, kid!  Don't look so serious!'
'But what I've got to say—IS—serious!'
Then she could see how, suddenly, he would sober,
His eyes would darken, he'd look so terrifying—
He always did—and what could she do but cry?
Perhaps, then, he would guess—perhaps he wouldn't.
And if he didn't, but asked her 'What's the matter?'—
She knew she'd never tell—just say she was sick . . .
And after that, when would she dare again?
And what would he do—even suppose she told him?
If it were Felix!  If it were only Felix!—
She wouldn't mind so much.  But as it was,
Bitterness choked her, she had half a mind
To pay out Felix for never having liked her,
By making people think that it was he . . .
She'd write a letter to someone, before she died,—
Just saying 'Felix did it—and wouldn't marry.'
And then she'd die . . .  But that was hard on Paul . . .
Paul would never forgive her—he'd never forgive her!
Sometimes she almost thought Paul really loved her . . .
She saw him look reproachfully at her coffin.
And then she closed her eyes and walked again
Those nightmare streets that she had walked so often:
Under an arc-lamp swinging in the wind
She stood, and stared in through a drug-store window,
Watching a clerk wrap up a little pill-box.
But it was late.  No customers were there,—
Pitiless eyes would freeze her secret in her!
And then—what poison would she dare to ask for?
And if they asked her why, what would she say?
VII. TWO LOVERS: OVERTONES
Two lovers, here at the corner, by the steeple,
Two lovers blow together like music blowing:
And the crowd dissolves about them like a sea.
Recurring waves of sound break vaguely about them,
They drift from wall to wall, from tree to tree.
'Well, am I late?'  Upward they look and laugh,
They look at the great clock's golden hands,
They laugh and talk, not knowing what they say:
Only, their words like music seem to play;
And seeming to walk, they tread strange sarabands.
'I brought you this . . . ' the soft words float like stars
Down the smooth heaven of her memory.
She stands again by a garden wall,
The peach tree is in bloom, pink blossoms fall,
Water sings from an opened tap, the bees
Glisten and murmur among the trees.
Someone calls from the house.  She does not answer.
Backward she leans her head,
And dreamily smiles at the peach-tree leaves, wherethrough
She sees an infinite May sky spread
A vault profoundly blue.
The voice from the house fades far away,
The glistening leaves more vaguely ripple and sway . .
The tap is closed, the water ceases to hiss . . .
Silence . . . blue sky . . . and then, 'I brought you this . . . '
She turns again, and smiles . . . He does not know
She smiles from long ago . . .
She turns to him and smiles . . . Sunlight above him
Roars like a vast invisible sea,
Gold is beaten before him, shrill bells of silver;
He is released of weight, his body is free,
He lifts his arms to swim,
Dark years like sinister tides coil under him . . .
The lazy sea-waves crumble along the beach
With a whirring sound like wind in bells,
He lies outstretched on the yellow wind-worn sands
Reaching his lazy hands
Among the golden grains and sea-white shells . . .
'One white rose . . . or is it pink, to-day?'
They pause and smile, not caring what they say,
If only they may talk.
The crowd flows past them like dividing waters.
Dreaming they stand, dreaming they walk.
'Pink,—to-day!'—Face turns to dream-bright face,
Green leaves rise round them, sunshine settles upon them,
Water, in drops of silver, falls from the rose.
She smiles at a face that smiles through leaves from the mirror.
She breathes the fragrance; her dark eyes close . . .
Time is dissolved, it blows like a little dust:
Time, like a flurry of rain,
Patters and passes, starring the window-pane.
Once, long ago, one night,
She saw the lightning, with long blue quiver of light,
Ripping the darkness . . . and as she turned in terror
A soft face leaned above her, leaned softly down,
Softly around her a breath of roses was blown,
She sank in waves of quiet, she seemed to float
In a sea of silence . . . and soft steps grew remote . .
'Well, let us walk in the park . . . The sun is warm,
We'll sit on a bench and talk . . .'  They turn and glide,
The crowd of faces wavers and breaks and flows.
'Look how the oak-tops turn to gold in the sunlight!
Look how the tower is changed and glows!'
Two lovers move in the crowd like a link of music,
We press upon them, we hold them, and let them pass;
A chord of music strikes us and straight we tremble;
We tremble like wind-blown grass.
What was this dream we had, a dream of music,
Music that rose from the opening earth like magic
And shook its beauty upon us and died away?
The long cold streets extend once more before us.
The red sun drops, the walls grow grey.
VIII. THE BOX WITH SILVER HANDLES
Well,—it was two days after my husband died—
Two days!  And the earth still raw above him.
And I was sweeping the carpet in their hall.
In number four—the room with the red wall-paper—
Some chorus girls and men were singing that song
'They'll soon be lighting candles
Round a box with silver handles'—and hearing them sing it
I started to cry.  Just then he came along
And stopped on the stairs and turned and looked at me,
And took the cigar from his mouth and sort of smiled
And said, 'Say, what's the matter?' and then came down
Where I was leaning against the wall,
And touched my shoulder, and put his arm around me . . .
And I was so sad, thinking about it,—
Thinking that it was raining, and a cold night,
With Jim so unaccustomed to being dead,—
That I was happy to have him sympathize,
To feel his arm, and leaned against him and cried.
And before I knew it, he got me into a room
Where a table was set, and no one there,
And sat me down on a sofa, and held me close,
And talked to me, telling me not to cry,
That it was all right, he'd look after me,—
But not to cry, my eyes were getting red,
Which didn't make me pretty.  And he was so nice,
That when he turned my face between his hands,
And looked at me, with those blue eyes of his,
And smiled, and leaned, and kissed me—
Somehow I couldn't tell him not to do it,
Somehow I didn't mind, I let him kiss me,
And closed my eyes! . . . Well, that was how it started.
For when my heart was eased with crying, and grief
Had passed and left me quiet, somehow it seemed
As if it wasn't honest to change my mind,
To send him away, or say I hadn't meant it—
And, anyway, it seemed so hard to explain!
And so we sat and talked, not talking much,
But meaning as much in silence as in words,
There in that empty room with palms about us,
That private dining-room . . . And as we sat there
I felt my future changing, day by day,
With unknown streets opening left and right,
New streets with farther lights, new taller houses,
Doors swinging into hallways filled with light,
Half-opened luminous windows, with white curtains
Streaming out in the night, and sudden music,—
And thinking of this, and through it half remembering
A quick and horrible death, my husband's eyes,
The broken-plastered walls, my boy asleep,—
It seemed as if my brain would break in two.
My voice began to tremble . . . and when I stood,
And told him I must go, and said good-night—
I couldn't see the end.  How would it end?
Would he return to-morrow?  Or would he not?
And did I want him to—or would I rather
Look for another job?—He took my shoulders
Between his hands, and looked down into my eyes,
And smiled, and said good-night.  If he had kissed me,
That would have—well, I don't know; but he didn't . .
And so I went downstairs, then, half elated,
Hoping to close the door before that party
In number four should sing that song again—
'They'll soon be lighting candles round a box with silver handles'—
And sure enough, I did.  I faced the darkness.
And my eyes were filled with tears.  And I was happy.
IX. INTERLUDE
The days, the nights, flow one by one above us,
The hours go silently over our lifted faces,
We are like dreamers who walk beneath a sea.
Beneath high walls we flow in the sun together.
We sleep, we wake, we laugh, we pursue, we flee.
We sit at tables and sip our morning coffee,
We read the papers for tales of lust or crime.
The door swings shut behind the latest comer.
We set our watches, regard the time.
What have we done?  I close my eyes, remember
The great machine whose sinister brain before me
Smote and smote with a rhythmic beat.
My hands have torn down walls, the stone and plaster.
I dropped great beams to the dusty street.
My eyes are worn with measuring cloths of purple,
And golden cloths, and wavering cloths, and pale.
I dream of a crowd of faces, white with menace.
Hands reach up to tear me.  My brain will fail.
Here, where the walls go down beneath our picks,
These walls whose windows gap against the sky,
Atom by atom of flesh and brain and marble
Will build a glittering tower before we die . . .
The young boy whistles, hurrying down the street,
The young girl hums beneath her breath.
One goes out to beauty, and does not know it.
And one goes out to death.
X. SUDDEN DEATH
'Number four—the girl who died on the table—
The girl with golden hair—'
The purpling body lies on the polished marble.
We open the throat, and lay the thyroid bare . . .
One, who held the ether-cone, remembers
Her dark blue frightened eyes.
He heard the sharp breath quiver, and saw her breast
More hurriedly fall and rise.
Her hands made futile gestures, she turned her head
Fighting for breath; her cheeks were flushed to scarlet,—
And, suddenly, she lay dead.
And all the dreams that hurried along her veins
Came to the darkness of a sudden wall.
Confusion ran among them, they whirled and clamored,
They fell, they rose, they struck, they shouted,
Till at last a pallor of silence hushed them all.
What was her name?  Where had she walked that morning?
Through what dark forest came her feet?
Along what sunlit walls, what peopled street?
Backward he dreamed along a chain of days,
He saw her go her strange and secret ways,
Waking and sleeping, noon and night.
She sat by a mirror, braiding her golden hair.
She read a story by candlelight.
Her shadow ran before her along the street,
She walked with rhythmic feet,
Turned a corner, descended a stair.
She bought a paper, held it to scan the headlines,
Smiled for a moment at sea-gulls high in sunlight,
And drew deep breaths of air.
Days passed, bright clouds of days.  Nights passed. And music
Murmured within the walls of lighted windows.
She lifted her face to the light and danced.
The dancers wreathed and grouped in moving patterns,
Clustered, receded, streamed, advanced.
Her dress was purple, her slippers were golden,
Her eyes were blue; and a purple orchid
Opened its golden heart on her breast . . .
She leaned to the surly languor of lazy music,
Leaned on her partner's arm to rest.
The violins were weaving a weft of silver,
The horns were weaving a lustrous brede of gold,
And time was caught in a glistening pattern,
Time, too elusive to hold . . .
Shadows of leaves fell over her face,—and sunlight:
She turned her face away.
Nearer she moved to a crouching darkness
With every step and day.
Death, who at first had thought of her only an instant,
At a great distance, across the night,
Smiled from a window upon her, and followed her slowly
From purple light to light.
Once, in her dreams, he spoke out clearly, crying,
'I am the murderer, death.
I am the lover who keeps his appointment
At the doors of breath!'
She rose and stared at her own reflection,
Half dreading there to find
The dark-eyed ghost, waiting beside her,
Or reaching from behind
To lay pale hands upon her shoulders . . .
Or was this in her mind? . . .
She combed her hair.  The sunlight glimmered
Along the tossing strands.
Was there a stillness in this hair,—
A quiet in these hands?
Death was a dream.  It could not change these eyes,
Blow out their light, or turn this mouth to dust.
She combed her hair and sang.  She would live forever.
Leaves flew past her window along a gust . . .
And graves were dug in the earth, and coffins passed,
And music ebbed with the ebbing hours.
And dreams went along her veins, and scattering clouds
Threw streaming shadows on walls and towers.
XI.
Snow falls.  The sky is grey, and sullenly glares
With purple lights in the canyoned street.
The fiery sign on the dark tower wreathes and flares . . .
The trodden grass in the park is covered with white,
The streets grow silent beneath our feet . . .
The city dreams, it forgets its past to-night.
And one, from his high bright window looking down
Over the enchanted whiteness of the town,
Seeing through whirls of white the vague grey towers,
Desires like this to forget what will not pass,
The littered papers, the dust, the tarnished grass,
Grey death, stale ugliness, and sodden hours.
Deep in his heart old bells are beaten again,
Slurred bells of grief and pain,
Dull echoes of hideous times and poisonous places.
He desires to drown in a cold white peace of snow.
He desires to forget a million faces . . .
In one room breathes a woman who dies of hunger.
The clock ticks slowly and stops.  And no one winds it.
In one room fade grey violets in a vase.
Snow flakes faintly hiss and melt on the window.
In one room, minute by minute, the flutist plays
The lamplit page of music, the tireless scales.
His hands are trembling, his short breath fails.
In one room, silently, lover looks upon lover,
And thinks the air is fire.
The drunkard swears and touches the harlot's heartstrings
With the sudden hand of desire.
And one goes late in the streets, and thinks of murder;
And one lies staring, and thinks of death.
And one, who has suffered, clenches her hands despairing,
And holds her breath . . .
Who are all these, who flow in the veins of the city,
Coil and revolve and dream,
Vanish or gleam?
Some mount up to the brain and flower in fire.
Some are destroyed; some die; some slowly stream.
And the new are born who desire to destroy the old;
And fires are kindled and quenched; and dreams are broken,
And walls flung down . . .
And the slow night whirls in snow over towers of dreamers,
And whiteness hushes the town.
PART III
I
As evening falls,
And the yellow lights leap one by one
Along high walls;
And along black streets that glisten as if with rain,
The muted city seems
Like one in a restless sleep, who lies and dreams
Of vague desires, and memories, and half-forgotten pain . . .
Along dark veins, like lights the quick dreams run,
Flash, are extinguished, flash again,
To mingle and glow at last in the enormous brain
And die away . . .
As evening falls,
A dream dissolves these insubstantial walls,—
A myriad secretly gliding lights lie bare . . .
The lovers rise, the harlot combs her hair,
The dead man's face grows blue in the dizzy lamplight,
The watchman climbs the stair . . .
The bank defaulter leers at a chaos of figures,
And runs among them, and is beaten down;
The sick man coughs and hears the chisels ringing;
The tired clown
Sees the enormous crowd, a million faces,
Motionless in their places,
Ready to laugh, and seize, and crush and tear . . .
The dancer smooths her hair,
Laces her golden slippers, and runs through the door
To dance once more,
Hearing swift music like an enchantment rise,
Feeling the praise of a thousand eyes.
As darkness falls
The walls grow luminous and warm, the walls
Tremble and glow with the lives within them moving,
Moving like music, secret and rich and warm.
How shall we live tonight?  Where shall we turn?
To what new light or darkness yearn?
A thousand winding stairs lead down before us;
And one by one in myriads we descend
By lamplit flowered walls, long balustrades,
Through half-lit halls which reach no end.
II. THE SCREEN MAIDEN
You read—what is it, then that you are reading?
What music moves so silently in your mind?
Your bright hand turns the page.
I watch you from my window, unsuspected:
You move in an alien land, a silent age . . .
. . .  The poet—what was his name—?  Tokkei—Tokkei—
The poet walked alone in a cold late rain,
And thought his grief was like the crying of sea-birds;
For his lover was dead, he never would love again.
Rain in the dreams of the mind—rain forever—
Rain in the sky of the heart—rain in the willows—
But then he saw this face, this face like flame,
This quiet lady, this portrait by Hiroshigi;
And took it home with him; and with it came
What unexpected changes, subtle as weather!
The dark room, cold as rain,
Grew faintly fragrant, stirred with a stir of April,
Warmed its corners with light again,
And smoke of incense whirled about this portrait,
And the quiet lady there,
So young, so quietly smiling, with calm hands,
Seemed ready to loose her hair,
And smile, and lean from the picture, or say one word,
The word already clear,
Which seemed to rise like light between her eyelids . .
He held his breath to hear,
And smiled for shame, and drank a cup of wine,
And held a candle, and searched her face
Through all the little shadows, to see what secret
Might give so warm a grace . . .
Was it the quiet mouth, restrained a little?
The eyes, half-turned aside?
The jade ring on her wrist, still almost swinging? . . .
The secret was denied,
He chose his favorite pen and drew these verses,
And slept; and as he slept
A dream came into his heart, his lover entered,
And chided him, and wept.
And in the morning, waking, he remembered,
And thought the dream was strange.
Why did his darkened lover rise from the garden?
He turned, and felt a change,
As if a someone hidden smiled and watched him . . .
Yet there was only sunlight there.
Until he saw those young eyes, quietly smiling,
And held his breath to stare,
And could have sworn her cheek had turned—a little . . .
Had slightly turned away . . .
Sunlight dozed on the floor . . . He sat and wondered,
Nor left his room that day.
And that day, and for many days thereafter,
He sat alone, and thought
No lady had ever lived so beautiful
As Hiroshigi wrought . . .
Or if she lived, no matter in what country,
By what far river or hill or lonely sea,
He would look in every face until he found her . . .
There was no other as fair as she.
And before her quiet face he burned soft incense,
And brought her every day
Boughs of the peach, or almond, or snow-white cherry,
And somehow, she seemed to say,
That silent lady, young, and quietly smiling,
That she was happy there;
And sometimes, seeing this, he started to tremble,
And desired to touch her hair,
To lay his palm along her hand, touch faintly
With delicate finger-tips
The ghostly smile that seemed to hover and vanish
Upon her lips . . .
Until he knew he loved this quiet lady;
And night by night a dread
Leered at his dreams, for he knew that Hiroshigi
Was many centuries dead,—
And the lady, too, was dead, and all who knew her . .
Dead, and long turned to dust . . .
The thin moon waxed and waned, and left him paler,
The peach leaves flew in a gust,
And he would surely have died; but there one day
A wise man, white with age,
Stared at the portrait, and said, 'This Hiroshigi
Knew more than archimage,—
Cunningly drew the body, and called the spirit,
Till partly it entered there . . .
Sometimes, at death, it entered the portrait wholly . .
Do all I say with care,
And she you love may come to you when you call her . . . '
So then this ghost, Tokkei,
Ran in the sun, bought wine of a hundred merchants,
And alone at the end of day
Entered the darkening room, and faced the portrait,
And saw the quiet eyes
Gleaming and young in the dusk, and held the wine-cup,
And knelt, and did not rise,
And said, aloud, 'Lo-san, will you drink this wine?'
Said it three times aloud.
And at the third the faint blue smoke of incense
Rose to the walls in a cloud,
And the lips moved faintly, and the eyes, and the calm hands stirred;
And suddenly, with a sigh,
The quiet lady came slowly down from the portrait,
And stood, while worlds went by,
And lifted her young white hands and took the wine cup;
And the poet trembled, and said,
'Lo-san, will you stay forever?'—'Yes, I will stay.'—
'But what when I am dead?'
'When you are dead your spirit will find my spirit,
And then we shall die no more.'
Music came down upon them, and spring returning,
They remembered worlds before,
And years went over the earth, and over the sea,
And lovers were born and spoke and died,
But forever in sunlight went these two immortal,
Tokkei and the quiet bride . . .
III. HAUNTED CHAMBERS
The lamplit page is turned, the dream forgotten;
The music changes tone, you wake, remember
Deep worlds you lived before,—deep worlds hereafter
Of leaf on falling leaf, music on music,
Rain and sorrow and wind and dust and laughter.
Helen was late and Miriam came too soon.
Joseph was dead, his wife and children starving.
Elaine was married and soon to have a child.
You dreamed last night of fiddler-crabs with fiddles;
They played a buzzing melody, and you smiled.
To-morrow—what?  And what of yesterday?
Through soundless labyrinths of dream you pass,
Through many doors to the one door of all.
Soon as it's opened we shall hear a music:
Or see a skeleton fall . . .
We walk with you.  Where is it that you lead us?
We climb the muffled stairs beneath high lanterns.
We descend again.  We grope through darkened cells.
You say: this darkness, here, will slowly kill me.
It creeps and weighs upon me . . . Is full of bells.
This is the thing remembered I would forget—
No matter where I go, how soft I tread,
This windy gesture menaces me with death.
Fatigue! it says, and points its finger at me;
Touches my throat and stops my breath.
My fans—my jewels—the portrait of my husband—
The torn certificate for my daughter's grave—
These are but mortal seconds in immortal time.
They brush me, fade away: like drops of water.
They signify no crime.
Let us retrace our steps: I have deceived you:
Nothing is here I could not frankly tell you:
No hint of guilt, or faithlessness, or threat.
Dreams—they are madness.  Staring eyes—illusion.
Let us return, hear music, and forget . . .
IV. ILLICIT
Of what she said to me that night—no matter.
The strange thing came next day.
My brain was full of music—something she played me—;
I couldn't remember it all, but phrases of it
Wreathed and wreathed among faint memories,
Seeking for something, trying to tell me something,
Urging to restlessness: verging on grief.
I tried to play the tune, from memory,—
But memory failed: the chords and discords climbed
And found no resolution—only hung there,
And left me morbid . . . Where, then, had I heard it? . . .
What secret dusty chamber was it hinting?
'Dust', it said, 'dust . . . and dust . . . and sunlight . .
A cold clear April evening . . . snow, bedraggled,
Rain-worn snow, dappling the hideous grass . . .
And someone walking alone; and someone saying
That all must end, for the time had come to go . . . '
These were the phrases . . . but behind, beneath them
A greater shadow moved: and in this shadow
I stood and guessed . . . Was it the blue-eyed lady?
The one who always danced in golden slippers—
And had I danced with her,—upon this music?
Or was it further back—the unplumbed twilight
Of childhood?—No—much recenter than that.
You know, without my telling you, how sometimes
A word or name eludes you, and you seek it
Through running ghosts of shadow,—leaping at it,
Lying in wait for it to spring upon it,
Spreading faint snares for it of sense or sound:
Until, of a sudden, as if in a phantom forest,
You hear it, see it flash among the branches,
And scarcely knowing how, suddenly have it—
Well, it was so I followed down this music,
Glimpsing a face in darkness, hearing a cry,
Remembering days forgotten, moods exhausted,
Corners in sunlight, puddles reflecting stars—;
Until, of a sudden, and least of all suspected,
The thing resolved itself: and I remembered
An April afternoon, eight years ago—
Or was it nine?—no matter—call it nine—
A room in which the last of sunlight faded;
A vase of violets, fragrance in white curtains;
And, she who played the same thing later, playing.
She played this tune.  And in the middle of it
Abruptly broke it off, letting her hands
Fall in her lap.  She sat there so a moment,
With shoulders drooped, then lifted up a rose,
One great white rose, wide opened like a lotos,
And pressed it to her cheek, and closed her eyes.
'You know—we've got to end this—Miriam loves you . . .
If she should ever know, or even guess it,—
What would she do?—Listen!—I'm not absurd . . .
I'm sure of it.  If you had eyes, for women—
To understand them—which you've never had—
You'd know it too . . . '  So went this colloquy,
Half humorous, with undertones of pathos,
Half grave, half flippant . . . while her fingers, softly,
Felt for this tune, played it and let it fall,
Now note by singing note, now chord by chord,
Repeating phrases with a kind of pleasure . . .
Was it symbolic of the woman's weakness
That she could neither break it—nor conclude?
It paused . . . and wandered . . . paused again; while she,
Perplexed and tired, half told me I must go,—
Half asked me if I thought I ought to go . . .
Well, April passed with many other evenings,
Evenings like this, with later suns and warmer,
With violets always there, and fragrant curtains . . .
And she was right: and Miriam found it out . . .
And after that, when eight deep years had passed—
Or nine—we met once more,—by accident . . .
But was it just by accident, I wonder,
She played this tune?—Or what, then, was intended? . . .
V. MELODY IN A RESTAURANT
The cigarette-smoke loops and slides above us,
Dipping and swirling as the waiter passes;
You strike a match and stare upon the flame.
The tiny fire leaps in your eyes a moment,
And dwindles away as silently as it came.
This melody, you say, has certain voices—
They rise like nereids from a river, singing,
Lift white faces, and dive to darkness again.
Wherever you go you bear this river with you:
A leaf falls,—and it flows, and you have pain.
So says the tune to you—but what to me?
What to the waiter, as he pours your coffee,
The violinist who suavely draws his bow?
That man, who folds his paper, overhears it.
A thousand dreams revolve and fall and flow.
Some one there is who sees a virgin stepping
Down marble stairs to a deep tomb of roses:
At the last moment she lifts remembering eyes.
Green leaves blow down.  The place is checked with shadows.
A long-drawn murmur of rain goes down the skies.
And oaks are stripped and bare, and smoke with lightning:
And clouds are blown and torn upon high forests,
And the great sea shakes its walls.
And then falls silence . . . And through long silence falls
This melody once more:
'Down endless stairs she goes, as once before.'
So says the tune to him—but what to me?
What are the worlds I see?
What shapes fantastic, terrible dreams? . . .
I go my secret way, down secret alleys;
My errand is not so simple as it seems.
VI. PORTRAIT OF ONE DEAD
This is the house.  On one side there is darkness,
On one side there is light.
Into the darkness you may lift your lanterns—
O, any number—it will still be night.
And here are echoing stairs to lead you downward
To long sonorous halls.
And here is spring forever at these windows,
With roses on the walls.
This is her room.  On one side there is music—
On one side not a sound.
At one step she could move from love to silence,
Feel myriad darkness coiling round.
And here are balconies from which she heard you,
Your steady footsteps on the stair.
And here the glass in which she saw your shadow
As she unbound her hair.
Here is the room—with ghostly walls dissolving—
The twilight room in which she called you 'lover';
And the floorless room in which she called you 'friend.'
So many times, in doubt, she ran between them!—
Through windy corridors of darkening end.
Here she could stand with one dim light above her
And hear far music, like a sea in caverns,
Murmur away at hollowed walls of stone.
And here, in a roofless room where it was raining,
She bore the patient sorrow of rain alone.
Your words were walls which suddenly froze around her.
Your words were windows,—large enough for moonlight,
Too small to let her through.
Your letters—fragrant cloisters faint with music.
The music that assuaged her there was you.
How many times she heard your step ascending
Yet never saw your face!
She heard them turn again, ring slowly fainter,
Till silence swept the place.
Why had you gone? . . .  The door, perhaps, mistaken . . .
You would go elsewhere.  The deep walls were shaken.
A certain rose-leaf—sent without intention—
Became, with time, a woven web of fire—
She wore it, and was warm.
A certain hurried glance, let fall at parting,
Became, with time, the flashings of a storm.
Yet, there was nothing asked, no hint to tell you
Of secret idols carved in secret chambers
From all you did and said.
Nothing was done, until at last she knew you.
Nothing was known, till, somehow, she was dead.
How did she die?—You say, she died of poison.
Simple and swift.  And much to be regretted.
You did not see her pass
So many thousand times from light to darkness,
Pausing so many times before her glass;
You did not see how many times she hurried
To lean from certain windows, vainly hoping,
Passionate still for beauty, remembered spring.
You did not know how long she clung to music,
You did not hear her sing.
Did she, then, make the choice, and step out bravely
From sound to silence—close, herself, those windows?
Or was it true, instead,
That darkness moved,—for once,—and so possessed her? . . .
We'll never know, you say, for she is dead.
VII. PORCELAIN
You see that porcelain ranged there in the window—
Platters and soup-plates done with pale pink rosebuds,
And tiny violets, and wreaths of ivy?
See how the pattern clings to the gleaming edges!
They're works of art—minutely seen and felt,
Each petal done devoutly.  Is it failure
To spend your blood like this?
Study them . . . you will see there, in the porcelain,
If you stare hard enough, a sort of swimming
Of lights and shadows, ghosts within a crystal—
My brain unfolding!  There you'll see me sitting
Day after day, close to a certain window,
Looking down, sometimes, to see the people . . .
Sometimes my wife comes there to speak to me . . .
Sometimes the grey cat waves his tail around me . . .
Goldfish swim in a bowl, glisten in sunlight,
Dilate to a gorgeous size, blow delicate bubbles,
Drowse among dark green weeds.  On rainy days,
You'll see a gas-light shedding light behind me—
An eye-shade round my forehead.  There I sit,
Twirling the tiny brushes in my paint-cups,
Painting the pale pink rosebuds, minute violets,
Exquisite wreaths of dark green ivy leaves.
On this leaf, goes a dream I dreamed last night
Of two soft-patterned toads—I thought them stones,
Until they hopped!  And then a great black spider,—
Tarantula, perhaps, a hideous thing,—
It crossed the room in one tremendous leap.
Here,—as I coil the stems between two leaves,—
It is as if, dwindling to atomy size,
I cried the secret between two universes . . .
A friend of mine took hasheesh once, and said
Just as he fell asleep he had a dream,—
Though with his eyes wide open,—
And felt, or saw, or knew himself a part
Of marvelous slowly-wreathing intricate patterns,
Plane upon plane, depth upon coiling depth,
Amazing leaves, folding one on another,
Voluted grasses, twists and curves and spirals—
All of it darkly moving . . . as for me,
I need no hasheesh for it—it's too easy!
Soon as I shut my eyes I set out walking
In a monstrous jungle of monstrous pale pink roseleaves,
Violets purple as death, dripping with water,
And ivy-leaves as big as clouds above me.
Here, in a simple pattern of separate violets—
With scalloped edges gilded—here you have me
Thinking of something else.  My wife, you know,—
There's something lacking—force, or will, or passion,
I don't know what it is—and so, sometimes,
When I am tired, or haven't slept three nights,
Or it is cloudy, with low threat of rain,
I get uneasy—just like poplar trees
Ruffling their leaves—and I begin to think
Of poor Pauline, so many years ago,
And that delicious night.  Where is she now?
I meant to write—but she has moved, by this time,
And then, besides, she might find out I'm married.
Well, there is more—I'm getting old and timid—
The years have gnawed my will.  I've lost my nerve!
I never strike out boldly as I used to—
But sit here, painting violets, and remember
That thrilling night.  Photographers, she said,
Asked her to pose for them; her eyes and forehead,—
Dark brown eyes, and a smooth and pallid forehead,—
Were thought so beautiful.—And so they were.
Pauline . . .  These violets are like words remembered . . .
Darling! she whispered . . . Darling! . . . Darling! . . . Darling!
Well, I suppose such days can come but once.
Lord, how happy we were! . . .
Here, if you only knew it, is a story—
Here, in these leaves.  I stopped my work to tell it,
And then, when I had finished, went on thinking:
A man I saw on a train . . .  I was still a boy . . .
Who killed himself by diving against a wall.
Here is a recollection of my wife,
When she was still my sweetheart, years ago.
It's funny how things change,—just change, by growing,
Without an effort . . .  And here are trivial things,—
A chill, an errand forgotten, a cut while shaving;
A friend of mine who tells me he is married . . .
Or is that last so trivial?  Well, no matter!
This is the sort of thing you'll see of me,
If you look hard enough.  This, in its way,
Is a kind of fame.  My life arranged before you
In scrolls of leaves, rosebuds, violets, ivy,
Clustered or wreathed on plate and cup and platter . . .
Sometimes, I say, I'm just like John the Baptist—
You have my head before you . . . on a platter.
VIII. COFFINS: INTERLUDE
Wind blows.  Snow falls.  The great clock in its tower
Ticks with reverberant coil and tolls the hour:
At the deep sudden stroke the pigeons fly . . .
The fine snow flutes the cracks between the flagstones.
We close our coats, and hurry, and search the sky.
We are like music, each voice of it pursuing
A golden separate dream, remote, persistent,
Climbing to fire, receding to hoarse despair.
What do you whisper, brother?  What do you tell me? . . .
We pass each other, are lost, and do not care.
One mounts up to beauty, serenely singing,
Forgetful of the steps that cry behind him;
One drifts slowly down from a waking dream.
One, foreseeing, lingers forever unmoving . . .
Upward and downward, past him there, we stream.
One has death in his eyes: and walks more slowly.
Death, among jonquils, told him a freezing secret.
A cloud blows over his eyes, he ponders earth.
He sees in the world a forest of sunlit jonquils:
A slow black poison huddles beneath that mirth.
Death, from street to alley, from door to window,
Cries out his news,—of unplumbed worlds approaching,
Of a cloud of darkness soon to destroy the tower.
But why comes death,—he asks,—in a world so perfect?
Or why the minute's grey in the golden hour?
Music, a sudden glissando, sinister, troubled,
A drift of wind-torn petals, before him passes
Down jangled streets, and dies.
The bodies of old and young, of maimed and lovely,
Are slowly borne to earth, with a dirge of cries.
Down cobbled streets they come; down huddled stairways;
Through silent halls; through carven golden doorways;
From freezing rooms as bare as rock.
The curtains are closed across deserted windows.
Earth streams out of the shovel; the pebbles knock.
Mary, whose hands rejoiced to move in sunlight;
Silent Elaine; grave Anne, who sang so clearly;
Fugitive Helen, who loved and walked alone;
Miriam too soon dead, darkly remembered;
Childless Ruth, who sorrowed, but could not atone;
Jean, whose laughter flashed over depths of terror,
And Eloise, who desired to love but dared not;
Doris, who turned alone to the dark and cried,—
They are blown away like windflung chords of music,
They drift away; the sudden music has died.
And one, with death in his eyes, comes walking slowly
And sees the shadow of death in many faces,
And thinks the world is strange.
He desires immortal music and spring forever,
And beauty that knows no change.
IX. CABARET
We sit together and talk, or smoke in silence.
You say (but use no words) 'this night is passing
As other nights when we are dead will pass . . .'
Perhaps I misconstrue you: you mean only,
'How deathly pale my face looks in that glass . . .'
You say: 'We sit and talk, of things important . . .
How many others like ourselves, this instant,
Mark the pendulum swinging against the wall?
How many others, laughing, sip their coffee—
Or stare at mirrors, and do not talk at all? . . .
'This is the moment' (so you would say, in silence)
When suddenly we have had too much of laughter:
And a freezing stillness falls, no word to say.
Our mouths feel foolish . . .  For all the days hereafter
What have we saved—what news, what tune, what play?
'We see each other as vain and futile tricksters,—
Posturing like bald apes before a mirror;
No pity dims our eyes . . .
How many others, like ourselves, this instant,
See how the great world wizens, and are wise? . . .'
Well, you are right . . .  No doubt, they fall, these seconds . . .
When suddenly all's distempered, vacuous, ugly,
And even those most like angels creep for schemes.
The one you love leans forward, smiles, deceives you,
Opens a door through which you see dark dreams.
But this is momentary . . . or else, enduring,
Leads you with devious eyes through mists and poisons
To horrible chaos, or suicide, or crime . . .
And all these others who at your conjuration
Grow pale, feeling the skeleton touch of time,—
Or, laughing sadly, talk of things important,
Or stare at mirrors, startled to see their faces,
Or drown in the waveless vacuum of their days,—
Suddenly, as from sleep, awake, forgetting
This nauseous dream; take up their accustomed ways,
Exhume the ghost of a joke, renew loud laughter,
Forget the moles above their sweethearts' eyebrows,
Lean to the music, rise,
And dance once more in a rose-festooned illusion
With kindness in their eyes . . .
They say (as we ourselves have said, remember)
'What wizardry this slow waltz works upon us!
And how it brings to mind forgotten things!'
They say 'How strange it is that one such evening
Can wake vague memories of so many springs!'
And so they go . . .  In a thousand crowded places,
They sit to smile and talk, or rise to ragtime,
And, for their pleasures, agree or disagree.
With secret symbols they play on secret passions.
With cunning eyes they see
The innocent word that sets remembrance trembling,
The dubious word that sets the scared heart beating . . .
The pendulum on the wall
Shakes down seconds . . .  They laugh at time, dissembling;
Or coil for a victim and do not talk at all.
X. LETTER
From time to time, lifting his eyes, he sees
The soft blue starlight through the one small window,
The moon above black trees, and clouds, and Venus,—
And turns to write . . .  The clock, behind ticks softly.
It is so long, indeed, since I have written,—
Two years, almost, your last is turning yellow,—
That these first words I write seem cold and strange.
Are you the man I knew, or have you altered?
Altered, of course—just as I too have altered—
And whether towards each other, or more apart,
We cannot say . . .  I've just re-read your letter—
Not through forgetfulness, but more for pleasure—
Pondering much on all you say in it
Of mystic consciousness—divine conversion—
The sense of oneness with the infinite,—
Faith in the world, its beauty, and its purpose . . .
Well, you believe one must have faith, in some sort,
If one's to talk through this dark world contented.
But is the world so dark?  Or is it rather
Our own brute minds,—in which we hurry, trembling,
Through streets as yet unlighted?  This, I think.
You have been always, let me say, "romantic,"—
Eager for color, for beauty, soon discontented
With a world of dust and stones and flesh too ailing:
Even before the question grew to problem
And drove you bickering into metaphysics,
You met on lower planes the same great dragon,
Seeking release, some fleeting satisfaction,
In strange aesthetics . . .  You tried, as I remember,
One after one, strange cults, and some, too, morbid,
The cruder first, more violent sensations,
Gorgeously carnal things, conceived and acted
With splendid animal thirst . . .  Then, by degrees,—
Savoring all more delicate gradations
In all that hue and tone may play on flesh,
Or thought on brain,—you passed, if I may say so,
From red and scarlet through morbid greens to mauve.
Let us regard ourselves, you used to say,
As instruments of music, whereon our lives
Will play as we desire: and let us yield
These subtle bodies and subtler brains and nerves
To all experience plays . . . And so you went
From subtle tune to subtler, each heard once,
Twice or thrice at the most, tiring of each;
And closing one by one your doors, drew in
Slowly, through darkening labyrinths of feeling,
Towards the central chamber . . .  Which now you've reached.
What, then's, the secret of this ultimate chamber—
Or innermost, rather?  If I see it clearly
It is the last, and cunningest, resort
Of one who has found this world of dust and flesh,—
This world of lamentations, death, injustice,
One, from his high bright window in a tower,
Leans out, as evening falls,
And sees the advancing curtain of the shower
Splashing its silver on roofs and walls:
Sees how, swift as a shadow, it crosses the city,
And murmurs beyond far walls to the sea,
Leaving a glimmer of water in the dark canyons,
And silver falling from eave and tree.
One, from his high bright window, looking down,
Peers like a dreamer over the rain-bright town,
And thinks its towers are like a dream.
The western windows flame in the sun's last flare,
Pale roofs begin to gleam.
Looking down from a window high in a wall
He sees us all;
Lifting our pallid faces towards the rain,
Searching the sky, and going our ways again,
Standing in doorways, waiting under the trees . . .
There, in the high bright window he dreams, and sees
What we are blind to,—we who mass and crowd
From wall to wall in the darkening of a cloud.
The gulls drift slowly above the city of towers,
Over the roofs to the darkening sea they fly;
Night falls swiftly on an evening of rain.
The yellow lamps wink one by one again.
The towers reach higher and blacker against the sky.
Up high black walls, up sombre terraces,
Clinging like luminous birds to the sides of cliffs,
The yellow lights went climbing towards the sky.
From high black walls, gleaming vaguely with rain,
Each yellow light looked down like a golden eye.
They trembled from coign to coign, and tower to tower,
Along high terraces quicker than dream they flew.
And some of them steadily glowed, and some soon vanished,
And some strange shadows threw.
And behind them all the ghosts of thoughts went moving,
Restlessly moving in each lamplit room,
From chair to mirror, from mirror to fire;
From some, the light was scarcely more than a gloom:
From some, a dazzling desire.
And there was one, beneath black eaves, who thought,
Combing with lifted arms her golden hair,
Of the lover who hurried towards her through the night;
And there was one who dreamed of a sudden death
As she blew out her light.
And there was one who turned from clamoring streets,
And walked in lamplit gardens among black trees,
And looked at the windy sky,
And thought with terror how stones and roots would freeze
And birds in the dead boughs cry . . .
And she hurried back, as snow fell, mixed with rain,
To mingle among the crowds again,
To jostle beneath blue lamps along the street;
And lost herself in the warm bright coiling dream,
With a sound of murmuring voices and shuffling feet.
And one, from his high bright window looking down
On luminous chasms that cleft the basalt town,
Hearing a sea-like murmur rise,
Desired to leave his dream, descend from the tower,
And drown in waves of shouts and laughter and cries.
The snow floats down upon us, mingled with rain...
It eddies around pale lilac lamps, and falls
Down golden-windowed walls.
We were all born of flesh, in a flare of pain,
We do not remember the red roots whence we rose,
But we know that we rose and walked, that after a while
We shall lie down again.
The snow floats down upon us, we turn, we turn,
Through gorges filled with light we sound and flow...
One is struck down and hurt, we crowd about him,
We bear him away, gaze after his listless body;
But whether he lives or dies we do not know.
One of us sings in the street, and we listen to him;
The words ring over us like vague bells of sorrow.
He sings of a house he lived in long ago.
It is strange; this house of dust was the house I lived in;
The house you lived in, the house that all of us know.
And coiling slowly about him, and laughing at him,
And throwing him pennies, we bear away
A mournful echo of other times and places,
And follow a dream... a dream that will not stay.
Down long broad flights of lamplit stairs we flow;
Noisy, in scattered waves, crowding and shouting;
In broken slow cascades.
The gardens extend before us...  We spread out swiftly;
Trees are above us, and darkness.  The canyon fades...
And we recall, with a gleaming stab of sadness,
Vaguely and incoherently, some dream
Of a world we came from, a world of sun-blue hills...
A black wood whispers around us, green eyes gleam;
Someone cries in the forest, and someone kills.
We flow to the east, to the white-lined shivering sea;
We reach to the west, where the whirling sun went down;
We close our eyes to music in bright cafes.
We diverge from clamorous streets to streets that are silent.
We loaf where the wind-spilled fountain plays.
And, growing tired, we turn aside at last,
Remember our secret selves, seek out our towers,
Lay weary hands on the banisters, and climb;
Climbing, each, to his little four-square dream
Of love or lust or beauty or death or crime.
Over the darkened city, the city of towers,
The city of a thousand gates,
Over the gleaming terraced roofs, the huddled towers,
Over a somnolent whisper of loves and hates,
The slow wind flows, drearily streams and falls,
With a mournful sound down rain-dark walls.
On one side purples the lustrous dusk of the sea,
And dreams in white at the city's feet;
On one side sleep the plains, with heaped-up hills.
Oaks and beeches whisper in rings about it.
Above the trees are towers where dread bells beat.
The fisherman draws his streaming net from the sea
And sails toward the far-off city, that seems
Like one vague tower.
The dark bow plunges to foam on blue-black waves,
And shrill rain seethes like a ghostly music about him
In a quiet shower.
Rain with a shrill sings on the lapsing waves;
Rain thrills over the roofs again;
Like a shadow of shifting silver it crosses the city;
The lamps in the streets are streamed with rain;
And sparrows complain beneath deep eaves,
And among whirled leaves
The sea-gulls, blowing from tower to lower tower,
From wall to remoter wall,
Skim with the driven rain to the rising sea-sound
And close grey wings and fall . . .
. . . Hearing great rain above me, I now remember
A girl who stood by the door and shut her eyes:
Her pale cheeks glistened with rain, she stood and shivered.
Into a forest of silver she vanished slowly . . .
Voices about me rise . . .
Voices clear and silvery, voices of raindrops,—
'We struck with silver claws, we struck her down.
We are the ghosts of the singing furies . . . '
A chorus of elfin voices blowing about me
Weaves to a babel of sound.  Each cries a secret.
I run among them, reach out vain hands, and drown.
'I am the one who stood beside you and smiled,
Thinking your face so strangely young . . . '
'I am the one who loved you but did not dare.'
'I am the one you followed through crowded streets,
The one who escaped you, the one with red-gleamed hair.'
'I am the one you saw to-day, who fell
Senseless before you, hearing a certain bell:
A bell that broke great memories in my brain.'
'I am the one who passed unnoticed before you,
Invisible, in a cloud of secret pain.'
'I am the one who suddenly cried, beholding
The face of a certain man on the dazzling screen.
They wrote me that he was dead.  It was long ago.
I walked in the streets for a long while, hearing nothing,
And returned to see it again.  And it was so.'
Weave, weave, weave, you streaks of rain!
I am dissolved and woven again . . .
Thousands of faces rise and vanish before me.
Thousands of voices weave in the rain.
'I am the one who rode beside you, blinking
At a dazzle of golden lights.
Tempests of music swept me: I was thinking
Of the gorgeous promise of certain nights:
Of the woman who suddenly smiled at me this day,
Smiled in a certain delicious sidelong way,
And turned, as she reached the door,
To smile once more . . .
Her hands are whiter than snow on midnight water.
Her throat is golden and full of golden laughter,
Her eyes are strange as the stealth of the moon
On a night in June . . .
She runs among whistling leaves; I hurry after;
She dances in dreams over white-waved water;
Her body is white and fragrant and cool,
Magnolia petals that float on a white-starred pool . . .
I have dreamed of her, dreaming for many nights
Of a broken music and golden lights,
Of broken webs of silver, heavily falling
Between my hands and their white desire:
And dark-leaved boughs, edged with a golden radiance,
Dipping to screen a fire . . .
I dream that I walk with her beneath high trees,
But as I lean to kiss her face,
She is blown aloft on wind, I catch at leaves,
And run in a moonless place;
And I hear a crashing of terrible rocks flung down,
And shattering trees and cracking walls,
And a net of intense white flame roars over the town,
And someone cries; and darkness falls . . .
But now she has leaned and smiled at me,
My veins are afire with music,
Her eyes have kissed me, my body is turned to light;
I shall dream to her secret heart tonight . . . '
He rises and moves away, he says no word,
He folds his evening paper and turns away;
I rush through the dark with rows of lamplit faces;
Fire bells peal, and some of us turn to listen,
And some sit motionless in their accustomed places.
Cold rain lashes the car-roof, scurries in gusts,
Streams down the windows in waves and ripples of lustre;
The lamps in the streets are distorted and strange.
Someone takes his watch from his pocket and yawns.
One peers out in the night for the place to change.
Rain . . . rain . . . rain . . . we are buried in rain,
It will rain forever, the swift wheels hiss through water,
Pale sheets of water gleam in the windy street.
The pealing of bells is lost in a drive of rain-drops.
Remote and hurried the great bells beat.
'I am the one whom life so shrewdly betrayed,
Misfortune dogs me, it always hunted me down.
And to-day the woman I love lies dead.
I gave her roses, a ring with opals;
These hands have touched her head.
'I bound her to me in all soft ways,
I bound her to me in a net of days,
Yet now she has gone in silence and said no word.
How can we face these dazzling things, I ask you?
There is no use: we cry: and are not heard.
'They cover a body with roses . . . I shall not see it . . .
Must one return to the lifeless walls of a city
Whose soul is charred by fire? . . . '
His eyes are closed, his lips press tightly together.
Wheels hiss beneath us.  He yields us our desire.
'No, do not stare so—he is weak with grief,
He cannot face you, he turns his eyes aside;
He is confused with pain.
I suffered this.  I know.  It was long ago . . .
He closes his eyes and drowns in death again.'
The wind hurls blows at the rain-starred glistening windows,
The wind shrills down from the half-seen walls.
We flow on the mournful wind in a dream of dying;
And at last a silence falls.
Midnight; bells toll, and along the cloud-high towers
The golden lights go out . . .
The yellow windows darken, the shades are drawn,
In thousands of rooms we sleep, we await the dawn,
We lie face down, we dream,
We cry aloud with terror, half rise, or seem
To stare at the ceiling or walls . . .
Midnight . . . the last of shattering bell-notes falls.
A rush of silence whirls over the cloud-high towers,
A vortex of soundless hours.
'The bells have just struck twelve: I should be sleeping.
But I cannot delay any longer to write and tell you.
The woman is dead.
She died—you know the way.  Just as we planned.
Smiling, with open sunlit eyes.
Smiling upon the outstretched fatal hand . . .'
He folds his letter, steps softly down the stairs.
The doors are closed and silent.  A gas-jet flares.
His shadow disturbs a shadow of balustrades.
The door swings shut behind.  Night roars above him.
Into the night he fades.
Wind; wind; wind; carving the walls;
Blowing the water that gleams in the street;
Blowing the rain, the sleet.
In the dark alley, an old tree cracks and falls,
Oak-boughs moan in the haunted air;
Lamps blow down with a crash and tinkle of glass . . .
Darkness whistles . . . Wild hours pass . . .
And those whom sleep eludes lie wide-eyed, hearing
Above their heads a goblin night go by;
Children are waked, and cry,
The young girl hears the roar in her sleep, and dreams
That her lover is caught in a burning tower,
She clutches the pillow, she gasps for breath, she screams . . .
And then by degrees her breath grows quiet and slow,
She dreams of an evening, long ago:
Of colored lanterns balancing under trees,
Some of them softly catching afire;
And beneath the lanterns a motionless face she sees,
Golden with lamplight, smiling, serene . . .
The leaves are a pale and glittering green,
The sound of horns blows over the trampled grass,
Shadows of dancers pass . . .
The face smiles closer to hers, she tries to lean
Backward, away, the eyes burn close and strange,
The face is beginning to change,—
It is her lover, she no longer desires to resist,
She is held and kissed.
She closes her eyes, and melts in a seethe of flame . . .
With a smoking ghost of shame . . .
Wind, wind, wind . . .  Wind in an enormous brain
Blowing dark thoughts like fallen leaves . . .
The wind shrieks, the wind grieves;
It dashes the leaves on walls, it whirls then again;
And the enormous sleeper vaguely and stupidly dreams
And desires to stir, to resist a ghost of pain.
One, whom the city imprisoned because of his cunning,
Who dreamed for years in a tower,
Seizes this hour
Of tumult and wind.  He files through the rusted bar,
Leans his face to the rain, laughs up at the night,
Slides down the knotted sheet, swings over the wall,
To fall to the street with a cat-like fall,
Slinks round a quavering rim of windy light,
And at last is gone,
Leaving his empty cell for the pallor of dawn . . .
The mother whose child was buried to-day
Turns her face to the window; her face is grey;
And all her body is cold with the coldness of rain.
He would have grown as easily as a tree,
He would have spread a pleasure of shade above her,
He would have been his father again . . .
His growth was ended by a freezing invisible shadow.
She lies, and does not move, and is stabbed by the rain.
Wind, wind, wind; we toss and dream;
We dream we are clouds and stars, blown in a stream:
Windows rattle above our beds;
We reach vague-gesturing hands, we lift our heads,
Hear sounds far off,—and dream, with quivering breath,
Our curious separate ways through life and death.
More towers must yet be built—more towers destroyed—
Great rocks hoisted in air;
And he must seek his bread in high pale sunlight
With gulls about him, and clouds just over his eyes . . .
And so he did not mention his dream of falling
But drank his coffee in silence, and heard in his ears
That horrible whistle of wind, and felt his breath
Sucked out of him, and saw the tower flash by
And the small tree swell beneath him . . .
He patted his boy on the head, and kissed his wife,
Looked quickly around the room, to remember it,—
And so went out . . .  For once, he forgot his pail.
Something had changed—but it was not the street—
The street was just the same—it was himself.
Puddles flashed in the sun.  In the pawn-shop door
The same old black cat winked green amber eyes;
The butcher stood by his window tying his apron;
The same men walked beside him, smoking pipes,
Reading the morning paper . . .
He would not yield, he thought, and walk more slowly,
As if he knew for certain he walked to death:
But with his usual pace,—deliberate, firm,
Looking about him calmly, watching the world,
Taking his ease . . .  Yet, when he thought again
Of the same dream, now dreamed three separate times,
Always the same, and heard that whistling wind,
And saw the windows flashing upward past him,—
He slowed his pace a little, and thought with horror
How monstrously that small tree thrust to meet him! . . .
He slowed his pace a little and remembered his wife.
Was forty, then, too old for work like this?
Why should it be?  He'd never been afraid—
His eye was sure, his hand was steady . . .
But dreams had meanings.
He walked more slowly, and looked along the roofs,
All built by men, and saw the pale blue sky;
And suddenly he was dizzy with looking at it,
It seemed to whirl and swim,
It seemed the color of terror, of speed, of death . . .
He lowered his eyes to the stones, he walked more slowly;
His thoughts were blown and scattered like leaves;
He thought of the pail . . . Why, then, was it forgotten?
Because he would not need it?
Then, just as he was grouping his thoughts again
About that drug-store corner, under an arc-lamp,
Where first he met the girl whom he would marry,—
That blue-eyed innocent girl, in a soft blouse,—
He waved his hand for signal, and up he went
In the dusty chute that hugged the wall;
Above the tree; from girdered floor to floor;
Above the flattening roofs, until the sea
Lay wide and waved before him . . . And then he stepped
Giddily out, from that security,
To the red rib of iron against the sky,
And walked along it, feeling it sing and tremble;
And looking down one instant, saw the tree
Just as he dreamed it was; and looked away,
And up again, feeling his blood go wild.
He gave the signal; the long girder swung
Closer to him, dropped clanging into place,
Almost pushing him off.  Pneumatic hammers
Began their madhouse clatter, the white-hot rivets
Were tossed from below and deftly caught in pails;
He signalled again, and wiped his mouth, and thought
A place so high in the air should be more quiet.
The tree, far down below, teased at his eyes,
Teased at the corners of them, until he looked,
And felt his body go suddenly small and light;
Felt his brain float off like a dwindling vapor;
And heard a whistle of wind, and saw a tree
Come plunging up to him, and thought to himself,
'By God—I'm done for now, the dream was right . . .'
The warm sun dreams in the dust, the warm sun falls
On bright red roofs and walls;
The trees in the park exhale a ghost of rain;
We go from door to door in the streets again,
Talking, laughing, dreaming, turning our faces,
Recalling other times and places . . .
We crowd, not knowing why, around a gate,
We crowd together and wait,
A stretcher is carried out, voices are stilled,
The ambulance drives away.
We watch its roof flash by, hear someone say
'A man fell off the building and was killed—
Fell right into a barrel . . .'  We turn again
Among the frightened eyes of white-faced men,
And go our separate ways, each bearing with him
A thing he tries, but vainly, to forget,—
A sickened crowd, a stretcher red and wet.
A hurdy-gurdy sings in the crowded street,
The golden notes skip over the sunlit stones,
Wings are upon our feet.
The sun seems warmer, the winding street more bright,
Sparrows come whirring down in a cloud of light.
We bear our dreams among us, bear them all,
Like hurdy-gurdy music they rise and fall,
Climb to beauty and die.
The wandering lover dreams of his lover's mouth,
And smiles at the hostile sky.
The broker smokes his pipe, and sees a fortune.
The murderer hears a cry.
'Draw three cards, and I will tell your future . . .
Draw three cards, and lay them down,
Rest your palms upon them, stare at the crystal,
And think of time . . . My father was a clown,
My mother was a gypsy out of Egypt;
And she was gotten with child in a strange way;
And I was born in a cold eclipse of the moon,
With the future in my eyes as clear as day.'
I sit before the gold-embroidered curtain
And think her face is like a wrinkled desert.
The crystal burns in lamplight beneath my eyes.
A dragon slowly coils on the scaly curtain.
Upon a scarlet cloth a white skull lies.
'Your hand is on the hand that holds three lilies.
You will live long, love many times.
I see a dark girl here who once betrayed you.
I see a shadow of secret crimes.
'There was a man who came intent to kill you,
And hid behind a door and waited for you;
There was a woman who smiled at you and lied.
There was a golden girl who loved you, begged you,
Crawled after you, and died.
'There is a ghost of murder in your blood—
Coming or past, I know not which.
And here is danger—a woman with sea-green eyes,
And white-skinned as a witch . . .'
The words hiss into me, like raindrops falling
On sleepy fire . . . She smiles a meaning smile.
Suspicion eats my brain; I ask a question;
Something is creeping at me, something vile;
And suddenly on the wall behind her head
I see a monstrous shadow strike and spread,
The lamp puffs out, a great blow crashes down.
I plunge through the curtain, run through dark to the street,
And hear swift steps retreat . . .
The shades are drawn, the door is locked behind me.
Behind the door I hear a hammer sounding.
I walk in a cloud of wonder; I am glad.
I mingle among the crowds; my heart is pounding;
You do not guess the adventure I have had! . . .
Yet you, too, all have had your dark adventures,
Your sudden adventures, or strange, or sweet . . .
My peril goes out from me, is blown among you.
We loiter, dreaming together, along the street.
Round white clouds roll slowly above the housetops,
Over the clear red roofs they flow and pass.
A flock of pigeons rises with blue wings flashing,
Rises with whistle of wings, hovers an instant,
And settles slowly again on the tarnished grass.
And one old man looks down from a dusty window
And sees the pigeons circling about the fountain
And desires once more to walk among those trees.
Lovers walk in the noontime by that fountain.
Pigeons dip their beaks to drink from the water.
And soon the pond must freeze.
The light wind blows to his ears a sound of laughter,
Young men shuffle their feet, loaf in the sunlight;
A girl's laugh rings like a silver bell.
But clearer than all these sounds is a sound he hears
More in his secret heart than in his ears,—
A hammer's steady crescendo, like a knell.
He hears the snarl of pineboards under the plane,
The rhythmic saw, and then the hammer again,—
Playing with delicate strokes that sombre scale . . .
And the fountain dwindles, the sunlight seems to pale.
Time is a dream, he thinks, a destroying dream;
It lays great cities in dust, it fills the seas;
It covers the face of beauty, and tumbles walls.
Where was the woman he loved?  Where was his youth?
Where was the dream that burned his brain like fire?
Even a dream grows grey at last and falls.
He opened his book once more, beside the window,
And read the printed words upon that page.
The sunlight touched his hand; his eyes moved slowly,
The quiet words enchanted time and age.
'Death is never an ending, death is a change;
Death is beautiful, for death is strange;
Death is one dream out of another flowing;
Death is a chorded music, softly going
By sweet transition from key to richer key.
Death is a meeting place of sea and sea.'
She turned her head on the pillow, and cried once more.
And drawing a shaken breath, and closing her eyes,
To shut out, if she could, this dingy room,
The wigs and costumes scattered around the floor,—
Yellows and greens in the dark,—she walked again
Those nightmare streets which she had walked so often . . .
Here, at a certain corner, under an arc-lamp,
Blown by a bitter wind, she stopped and looked
In through the brilliant windows of a drug-store,
And wondered if she dared to ask for poison:
But it was late, few customers were there,
The eyes of all the clerks would freeze upon her,
And she would wilt, and cry . . .  Here, by the river,
She listened to the water slapping the wall,
And felt queer fascination in its blackness:
But it was cold, the little waves looked cruel,
The stars were keen, and a windy dash of spray
Struck her cheek, and withered her veins . . . And so
She dragged herself once more to home, and bed.
Paul hadn't guessed it yet—though twice, already,
She'd fainted—once, the first time, on the stage.
So she must tell him soon—or else—get out . . .
How could she say it?  That was the hideous thing.
She'd rather die than say it! . . . and all the trouble,
Months when she couldn't earn a cent, and then,
If he refused to marry her . . . well, what?
She saw him laughing, making a foolish joke,
His grey eyes turning quickly; and the words
Fled from her tongue . . .  She saw him sitting silent,
Brooding over his morning coffee, maybe,
And tried again . . . she bit her lips, and trembled,
And looked away, and said . . . 'Say Paul, boy,—listen—
There's something I must tell you . . . '  There she stopped,
Wondering what he'd say . . .  What would he say?
'Spring it, kid!  Don't look so serious!'
'But what I've got to say—IS—serious!'
Then she could see how, suddenly, he would sober,
His eyes would darken, he'd look so terrifying—
He always did—and what could she do but cry?
Perhaps, then, he would guess—perhaps he wouldn't.
And if he didn't, but asked her 'What's the matter?'—
She knew she'd never tell—just say she was sick . . .
And after that, when would she dare again?
And what would he do—even suppose she told him?
If it were Felix!  If it were only Felix!—
She wouldn't mind so much.  But as it was,
Bitterness choked her, she had half a mind
To pay out Felix for never having liked her,
By making people think that it was he . . .
She'd write a letter to someone, before she died,—
Just saying 'Felix did it—and wouldn't marry.'
And then she'd die . . .  But that was hard on Paul . . .
Paul would never forgive her—he'd never forgive her!
Sometimes she almost thought Paul really loved her . . .
She saw him look reproachfully at her coffin.
And then she closed her eyes and walked again
Those nightmare streets that she had walked so often:
Under an arc-lamp swinging in the wind
She stood, and stared in through a drug-store window,
Watching a clerk wrap up a little pill-box.
But it was late.  No customers were there,—
Pitiless eyes would freeze her secret in her!
And then—what poison would she dare to ask for?
And if they asked her why, what would she say?
Two lovers, here at the corner, by the steeple,
Two lovers blow together like music blowing:
And the crowd dissolves about them like a sea.
Recurring waves of sound break vaguely about them,
They drift from wall to wall, from tree to tree.
'Well, am I late?'  Upward they look and laugh,
They look at the great clock's golden hands,
They laugh and talk, not knowing what they say:
Only, their words like music seem to play;
And seeming to walk, they tread strange sarabands.
'I brought you this . . . ' the soft words float like stars
Down the smooth heaven of her memory.
She stands again by a garden wall,
The peach tree is in bloom, pink blossoms fall,
Water sings from an opened tap, the bees
Glisten and murmur among the trees.
Someone calls from the house.  She does not answer.
Backward she leans her head,
And dreamily smiles at the peach-tree leaves, wherethrough
She sees an infinite May sky spread
A vault profoundly blue.
The voice from the house fades far away,
The glistening leaves more vaguely ripple and sway . .
The tap is closed, the water ceases to hiss . . .
Silence . . . blue sky . . . and then, 'I brought you this . . . '
She turns again, and smiles . . . He does not know
She smiles from long ago . . .
She turns to him and smiles . . . Sunlight above him
Roars like a vast invisible sea,
Gold is beaten before him, shrill bells of silver;
He is released of weight, his body is free,
He lifts his arms to swim,
Dark years like sinister tides coil under him . . .
The lazy sea-waves crumble along the beach
With a whirring sound like wind in bells,
He lies outstretched on the yellow wind-worn sands
Reaching his lazy hands
Among the golden grains and sea-white shells . . .
'One white rose . . . or is it pink, to-day?'
They pause and smile, not caring what they say,
If only they may talk.
The crowd flows past them like dividing waters.
Dreaming they stand, dreaming they walk.
'Pink,—to-day!'—Face turns to dream-bright face,
Green leaves rise round them, sunshine settles upon them,
Water, in drops of silver, falls from the rose.
She smiles at a face that smiles through leaves from the mirror.
She breathes the fragrance; her dark eyes close . . .
Time is dissolved, it blows like a little dust:
Time, like a flurry of rain,
Patters and passes, starring the window-pane.
Once, long ago, one night,
She saw the lightning, with long blue quiver of light,
Ripping the darkness . . . and as she turned in terror
A soft face leaned above her, leaned softly down,
Softly around her a breath of roses was blown,
She sank in waves of quiet, she seemed to float
In a sea of silence . . . and soft steps grew remote . .
'Well, let us walk in the park . . . The sun is warm,
We'll sit on a bench and talk . . .'  They turn and glide,
The crowd of faces wavers and breaks and flows.
'Look how the oak-tops turn to gold in the sunlight!
Look how the tower is changed and glows!'
Two lovers move in the crowd like a link of music,
We press upon them, we hold them, and let them pass;
A chord of music strikes us and straight we tremble;
We tremble like wind-blown grass.
What was this dream we had, a dream of music,
Music that rose from the opening earth like magic
And shook its beauty upon us and died away?
The long cold streets extend once more before us.
The red sun drops, the walls grow grey.
Well,—it was two days after my husband died—
Two days!  And the earth still raw above him.
And I was sweeping the carpet in their hall.
In number four—the room with the red wall-paper—
Some chorus girls and men were singing that song
'They'll soon be lighting candles
Round a box with silver handles'—and hearing them sing it
I started to cry.  Just then he came along
And stopped on the stairs and turned and looked at me,
And took the cigar from his mouth and sort of smiled
And said, 'Say, what's the matter?' and then came down
Where I was leaning against the wall,
And touched my shoulder, and put his arm around me . . .
And I was so sad, thinking about it,—
Thinking that it was raining, and a cold night,
With Jim so unaccustomed to being dead,—
That I was happy to have him sympathize,
To feel his arm, and leaned against him and cried.
And before I knew it, he got me into a room
Where a table was set, and no one there,
And sat me down on a sofa, and held me close,
And talked to me, telling me not to cry,
That it was all right, he'd look after me,—
But not to cry, my eyes were getting red,
Which didn't make me pretty.  And he was so nice,
That when he turned my face between his hands,
And looked at me, with those blue eyes of his,
And smiled, and leaned, and kissed me—
Somehow I couldn't tell him not to do it,
Somehow I didn't mind, I let him kiss me,
And closed my eyes! . . . Well, that was how it started.
For when my heart was eased with crying, and grief
Had passed and left me quiet, somehow it seemed
As if it wasn't honest to change my mind,
To send him away, or say I hadn't meant it—
And, anyway, it seemed so hard to explain!
And so we sat and talked, not talking much,
But meaning as much in silence as in words,
There in that empty room with palms about us,
That private dining-room . . . And as we sat there
I felt my future changing, day by day,
With unknown streets opening left and right,
New streets with farther lights, new taller houses,
Doors swinging into hallways filled with light,
Half-opened luminous windows, with white curtains
Streaming out in the night, and sudden music,—
And thinking of this, and through it half remembering
A quick and horrible death, my husband's eyes,
The broken-plastered walls, my boy asleep,—
It seemed as if my brain would break in two.
My voice began to tremble . . . and when I stood,
And told him I must go, and said good-night—
I couldn't see the end.  How would it end?
Would he return to-morrow?  Or would he not?
And did I want him to—or would I rather
Look for another job?—He took my shoulders
Between his hands, and looked down into my eyes,
And smiled, and said good-night.  If he had kissed me,
That would have—well, I don't know; but he didn't . .
And so I went downstairs, then, half elated,
Hoping to close the door before that party
In number four should sing that song again—
'They'll soon be lighting candles round a box with silver handles'—
And sure enough, I did.  I faced the darkness.
And my eyes were filled with tears.  And I was happy.
The days, the nights, flow one by one above us,
The hours go silently over our lifted faces,
We are like dreamers who walk beneath a sea.
Beneath high walls we flow in the sun together.
We sleep, we wake, we laugh, we pursue, we flee.
We sit at tables and sip our morning coffee,
We read the papers for tales of lust or crime.
The door swings shut behind the latest comer.
We set our watches, regard the time.
What have we done?  I close my eyes, remember
The great machine whose sinister brain before me
Smote and smote with a rhythmic beat.
My hands have torn down walls, the stone and plaster.
I dropped great beams to the dusty street.
My eyes are worn with measuring cloths of purple,
And golden cloths, and wavering cloths, and pale.
I dream of a crowd of faces, white with menace.
Hands reach up to tear me.  My brain will fail.
Here, where the walls go down beneath our picks,
These walls whose windows gap against the sky,
Atom by atom of flesh and brain and marble
Will build a glittering tower before we die . . .
The young boy whistles, hurrying down the street,
The young girl hums beneath her breath.
One goes out to beauty, and does not know it.
And one goes out to death.
'Number four—the girl who died on the table—
The girl with golden hair—'
The purpling body lies on the polished marble.
We open the throat, and lay the thyroid bare . . .
One, who held the ether-cone, remembers
Her dark blue frightened eyes.
He heard the sharp breath quiver, and saw her breast
More hurriedly fall and rise.
Her hands made futile gestures, she turned her head
Fighting for breath; her cheeks were flushed to scarlet,—
And, suddenly, she lay dead.
And all the dreams that hurried along her veins
Came to the darkness of a sudden wall.
Confusion ran among them, they whirled and clamored,
They fell, they rose, they struck, they shouted,
Till at last a pallor of silence hushed them all.
What was her name?  Where had she walked that morning?
Through what dark forest came her feet?
Along what sunlit walls, what peopled street?
Backward he dreamed along a chain of days,
He saw her go her strange and secret ways,
Waking and sleeping, noon and night.
She sat by a mirror, braiding her golden hair.
She read a story by candlelight.
Her shadow ran before her along the street,
She walked with rhythmic feet,
Turned a corner, descended a stair.
She bought a paper, held it to scan the headlines,
Smiled for a moment at sea-gulls high in sunlight,
And drew deep breaths of air.
Days passed, bright clouds of days.  Nights passed. And music
Murmured within the walls of lighted windows.
She lifted her face to the light and danced.
The dancers wreathed and grouped in moving patterns,
Clustered, receded, streamed, advanced.
Her dress was purple, her slippers were golden,
Her eyes were blue; and a purple orchid
Opened its golden heart on her breast . . .
She leaned to the surly languor of lazy music,
Leaned on her partner's arm to rest.
The violins were weaving a weft of silver,
The horns were weaving a lustrous brede of gold,
And time was caught in a glistening pattern,
Time, too elusive to hold . . .
Shadows of leaves fell over her face,—and sunlight:
She turned her face away.
Nearer she moved to a crouching darkness
With every step and day.
Death, who at first had thought of her only an instant,
At a great distance, across the night,
Smiled from a window upon her, and followed her slowly
From purple light to light.
Once, in her dreams, he spoke out clearly, crying,
'I am the murderer, death.
I am the lover who keeps his appointment
At the doors of breath!'
She rose and stared at her own reflection,
Half dreading there to find
The dark-eyed ghost, waiting beside her,
Or reaching from behind
To lay pale hands upon her shoulders . . .
Or was this in her mind? . . .
She combed her hair.  The sunlight glimmered
Along the tossing strands.
Was there a stillness in this hair,—
A quiet in these hands?
Death was a dream.  It could not change these eyes,
Blow out their light, or turn this mouth to dust.
She combed her hair and sang.  She would live forever.
Leaves flew past her window along a gust . . .
And graves were dug in the earth, and coffins passed,
And music ebbed with the ebbing hours.
And dreams went along her veins, and scattering clouds
Threw streaming shadows on walls and towers.
As evening falls,
And the yellow lights leap one by one
Along high walls;
And along black streets that glisten as if with rain,
The muted city seems
Like one in a restless sleep, who lies and dreams
Of vague desires, and memories, and half-forgotten pain . . .
Along dark veins, like lights the quick dreams run,
Flash, are extinguished, flash again,
To mingle and glow at last in the enormous brain
And die away . . .
As evening falls,
A dream dissolves these insubstantial walls,—
A myriad secretly gliding lights lie bare . . .
The lovers rise, the harlot combs her hair,
The dead man's face grows blue in the dizzy lamplight,
The watchman climbs the stair . . .
The bank defaulter leers at a chaos of figures,
And runs among them, and is beaten down;
The sick man coughs and hears the chisels ringing;
The tired clown
Sees the enormous crowd, a million faces,
Motionless in their places,
Ready to laugh, and seize, and crush and tear . . .
The dancer smooths her hair,
Laces her golden slippers, and runs through the door
To dance once more,
Hearing swift music like an enchantment rise,
Feeling the praise of a thousand eyes.
As darkness falls
The walls grow luminous and warm, the walls
Tremble and glow with the lives within them moving,
Moving like music, secret and rich and warm.
How shall we live tonight?  Where shall we turn?
To what new light or darkness yearn?
A thousand winding stairs lead down before us;
And one by one in myriads we descend
By lamplit flowered walls, long balustrades,
Through half-lit halls which reach no end.
You read—what is it, then that you are reading?
What music moves so silently in your mind?
Your bright hand turns the page.
I watch you from my window, unsuspected:
You move in an alien land, a silent age . . .
. . .  The poet—what was his name—?  Tokkei—Tokkei—
The poet walked alone in a cold late rain,
And thought his grief was like the crying of sea-birds;
For his lover was dead, he never would love again.
Rain in the dreams of the mind—rain forever—
Rain in the sky of the heart—rain in the willows—
But then he saw this face, this face like flame,
This quiet lady, this portrait by Hiroshigi;
And took it home with him; and with it came
What unexpected changes, subtle as weather!
The dark room, cold as rain,
Grew faintly fragrant, stirred with a stir of April,
Warmed its corners with light again,
And smoke of incense whirled about this portrait,
And the quiet lady there,
So young, so quietly smiling, with calm hands,
Seemed ready to loose her hair,
And smile, and lean from the picture, or say one word,
The word already clear,
Which seemed to rise like light between her eyelids . .
He held his breath to hear,
And smiled for shame, and drank a cup of wine,
And held a candle, and searched her face
Through all the little shadows, to see what secret
Might give so warm a grace . . .
Was it the quiet mouth, restrained a little?
The eyes, half-turned aside?
The jade ring on her wrist, still almost swinging? . . .
The secret was denied,
He chose his favorite pen and drew these verses,
And slept; and as he slept
A dream came into his heart, his lover entered,
And chided him, and wept.
And in the morning, waking, he remembered,
And thought the dream was strange.
Why did his darkened lover rise from the garden?
He turned, and felt a change,
As if a someone hidden smiled and watched him . . .
Yet there was only sunlight there.
Until he saw those young eyes, quietly smiling,
And held his breath to stare,
And could have sworn her cheek had turned—a little . . .
Had slightly turned away . . .
Sunlight dozed on the floor . . . He sat and wondered,
Nor left his room that day.
And that day, and for many days thereafter,
He sat alone, and thought
No lady had ever lived so beautiful
As Hiroshigi wrought . . .
Or if she lived, no matter in what country,
By what far river or hill or lonely sea,
He would look in every face until he found her . . .
There was no other as fair as she.
And before her quiet face he burned soft incense,
And brought her every day
Boughs of the peach, or almond, or snow-white cherry,
And somehow, she seemed to say,
That silent lady, young, and quietly smiling,
That she was happy there;
And sometimes, seeing this, he started to tremble,
And desired to touch her hair,
To lay his palm along her hand, touch faintly
With delicate finger-tips
The ghostly smile that seemed to hover and vanish
Upon her lips . . .
Until he knew he loved this quiet lady;
And night by night a dread
Leered at his dreams, for he knew that Hiroshigi
Was many centuries dead,—
And the lady, too, was dead, and all who knew her . .
Dead, and long turned to dust . . .
The thin moon waxed and waned, and left him paler,
The peach leaves flew in a gust,
And he would surely have died; but there one day
A wise man, white with age,
Stared at the portrait, and said, 'This Hiroshigi
Knew more than archimage,—
Cunningly drew the body, and called the spirit,
Till partly it entered there . . .
Sometimes, at death, it entered the portrait wholly . .
Do all I say with care,
And she you love may come to you when you call her . . . '
So then this ghost, Tokkei,
Ran in the sun, bought wine of a hundred merchants,
And alone at the end of day
Entered the darkening room, and faced the portrait,
And saw the quiet eyes
Gleaming and young in the dusk, and held the wine-cup,
And knelt, and did not rise,
And said, aloud, 'Lo-san, will you drink this wine?'
Said it three times aloud.
And at the third the faint blue smoke of incense
Rose to the walls in a cloud,
And the lips moved faintly, and the eyes, and the calm hands stirred;
And suddenly, with a sigh,
The quiet lady came slowly down from the portrait,
And stood, while worlds went by,
And lifted her young white hands and took the wine cup;
And the poet trembled, and said,
'Lo-san, will you stay forever?'—'Yes, I will stay.'—
'But what when I am dead?'
'When you are dead your spirit will find my spirit,
And then we shall die no more.'
Music came down upon them, and spring returning,
They remembered worlds before,
And years went over the earth, and over the sea,
And lovers were born and spoke and died,
But forever in sunlight went these two immortal,
Tokkei and the quiet bride . . .
The lamplit page is turned, the dream forgotten;
The music changes tone, you wake, remember
Deep worlds you lived before,—deep worlds hereafter
Of leaf on falling leaf, music on music,
Rain and sorrow and wind and dust and laughter.
Helen was late and Miriam came too soon.
Joseph was dead, his wife and children starving.
Elaine was married and soon to have a child.
You dreamed last night of fiddler-crabs with fiddles;
They played a buzzing melody, and you smiled.
To-morrow—what?  And what of yesterday?
Through soundless labyrinths of dream you pass,
Through many doors to the one door of all.
Soon as it's opened we shall hear a music:
Or see a skeleton fall . . .
We walk with you.  Where is it that you lead us?
We climb the muffled stairs beneath high lanterns.
We descend again.  We grope through darkened cells.
You say: this darkness, here, will slowly kill me.
It creeps and weighs upon me . . . Is full of bells.
This is the thing remembered I would forget—
No matter where I go, how soft I tread,
This windy gesture menaces me with death.
Fatigue! it says, and points its finger at me;
Touches my throat and stops my breath.
My fans—my jewels—the portrait of my husband—
The torn certificate for my daughter's grave—
These are but mortal seconds in immortal time.
They brush me, fade away: like drops of water.
They signify no crime.
Let us retrace our steps: I have deceived you:
Nothing is here I could not frankly tell you:
No hint of guilt, or faithlessness, or threat.
Dreams—they are madness.  Staring eyes—illusion.
Let us return, hear music, and forget . . .
Of what she said to me that night—no matter.
The strange thing came next day.
My brain was full of music—something she played me—;
I couldn't remember it all, but phrases of it
Wreathed and wreathed among faint memories,
Seeking for something, trying to tell me something,
Urging to restlessness: verging on grief.
I tried to play the tune, from memory,—
But memory failed: the chords and discords climbed
And found no resolution—only hung there,
And left me morbid . . . Where, then, had I heard it? . . .
What secret dusty chamber was it hinting?
'Dust', it said, 'dust . . . and dust . . . and sunlight . .
A cold clear April evening . . . snow, bedraggled,
Rain-worn snow, dappling the hideous grass . . .
And someone walking alone; and someone saying
That all must end, for the time had come to go . . . '
These were the phrases . . . but behind, beneath them
A greater shadow moved: and in this shadow
I stood and guessed . . . Was it the blue-eyed lady?
The one who always danced in golden slippers—
And had I danced with her,—upon this music?
Or was it further back—the unplumbed twilight
Of childhood?—No—much recenter than that.
You know, without my telling you, how sometimes
A word or name eludes you, and you seek it
Through running ghosts of shadow,—leaping at it,
Lying in wait for it to spring upon it,
Spreading faint snares for it of sense or sound:
Until, of a sudden, as if in a phantom forest,
You hear it, see it flash among the branches,
And scarcely knowing how, suddenly have it—
Well, it was so I followed down this music,
Glimpsing a face in darkness, hearing a cry,
Remembering days forgotten, moods exhausted,
Corners in sunlight, puddles reflecting stars—;
Until, of a sudden, and least of all suspected,
The thing resolved itself: and I remembered
An April afternoon, eight years ago—
Or was it nine?—no matter—call it nine—
A room in which the last of sunlight faded;
A vase of violets, fragrance in white curtains;
And, she who played the same thing later, playing.
She played this tune.  And in the middle of it
Abruptly broke it off, letting her hands
Fall in her lap.  She sat there so a moment,
With shoulders drooped, then lifted up a rose,
One great white rose, wide opened like a lotos,
And pressed it to her cheek, and closed her eyes.
'You know—we've got to end this—Miriam loves you . . .
If she should ever know, or even guess it,—
What would she do?—Listen!—I'm not absurd . . .
I'm sure of it.  If you had eyes, for women—
To understand them—which you've never had—
You'd know it too . . . '  So went this colloquy,
Half humorous, with undertones of pathos,
Half grave, half flippant . . . while her fingers, softly,
Felt for this tune, played it and let it fall,
Now note by singing note, now chord by chord,
Repeating phrases with a kind of pleasure . . .
Was it symbolic of the woman's weakness
That she could neither break it—nor conclude?
It paused . . . and wandered . . . paused again; while she,
Perplexed and tired, half told me I must go,—
Half asked me if I thought I ought to go . . .
Well, April passed with many other evenings,
Evenings like this, with later suns and warmer,
With violets always there, and fragrant curtains . . .
And she was right: and Miriam found it out . . .
And after that, when eight deep years had passed—
Or nine—we met once more,—by accident . . .
But was it just by accident, I wonder,
She played this tune?—Or what, then, was intended? . . .
The cigarette-smoke loops and slides above us,
Dipping and swirling as the waiter passes;
You strike a match and stare upon the flame.
The tiny fire leaps in your eyes a moment,
And dwindles away as silently as it came.
This melody, you say, has certain voices—
They rise like nereids from a river, singing,
Lift white faces, and dive to darkness again.
Wherever you go you bear this river with you:
A leaf falls,—and it flows, and you have pain.
So says the tune to you—but what to me?
What to the waiter, as he pours your coffee,
The violinist who suavely draws his bow?
That man, who folds his paper, overhears it.
A thousand dreams revolve and fall and flow.
Some one there is who sees a virgin stepping
Down marble stairs to a deep tomb of roses:
At the last moment she lifts remembering eyes.
Green leaves blow down.  The place is checked with shadows.
A long-drawn murmur of rain goes down the skies.
And oaks are stripped and bare, and smoke with lightning:
And clouds are blown and torn upon high forests,
And the great sea shakes its walls.
And then falls silence . . . And through long silence falls
This melody once more:
'Down endless stairs she goes, as once before.'
So says the tune to him—but what to me?
What are the worlds I see?
What shapes fantastic, terrible dreams? . . .
I go my secret way, down secret alleys;
My errand is not so simple as it seems.
This is the house.  On one side there is darkness,
On one side there is light.
Into the darkness you may lift your lanterns—
O, any number—it will still be night.
And here are echoing stairs to lead you downward
To long sonorous halls.
And here is spring forever at these windows,
With roses on the walls.
This is her room.  On one side there is music—
On one side not a sound.
At one step she could move from love to silence,
Feel myriad darkness coiling round.
And here are balconies from which she heard you,
Your steady footsteps on the stair.
And here the glass in which she saw your shadow
As she unbound her hair.
Here is the room—with ghostly walls dissolving—
The twilight room in which she called you 'lover';
And the floorless room in which she called you 'friend.'
So many times, in doubt, she ran between them!—
Through windy corridors of darkening end.
Here she could stand with one dim light above her
And hear far music, like a sea in caverns,
Murmur away at hollowed walls of stone.
And here, in a roofless room where it was raining,
She bore the patient sorrow of rain alone.
Your words were walls which suddenly froze around her.
Your words were windows,—large enough for moonlight,
Too small to let her through.
Your letters—fragrant cloisters faint with music.
The music that assuaged her there was you.
How many times she heard your step ascending
Yet never saw your face!
She heard them turn again, ring slowly fainter,
Till silence swept the place.
Why had you gone? . . .  The door, perhaps, mistaken . . .
You would go elsewhere.  The deep walls were shaken.
A certain rose-leaf—sent without intention—
Became, with time, a woven web of fire—
She wore it, and was warm.
A certain hurried glance, let fall at parting,
Became, with time, the flashings of a storm.
Yet, there was nothing asked, no hint to tell you
Of secret idols carved in secret chambers
From all you did and said.
Nothing was done, until at last she knew you.
Nothing was known, till, somehow, she was dead.
How did she die?—You say, she died of poison.
Simple and swift.  And much to be regretted.
You did not see her pass
So many thousand times from light to darkness,
Pausing so many times before her glass;
You did not see how many times she hurried
To lean from certain windows, vainly hoping,
Passionate still for beauty, remembered spring.
You did not know how long she clung to music,
You did not hear her sing.
Did she, then, make the choice, and step out bravely
From sound to silence—close, herself, those windows?
Or was it true, instead,
That darkness moved,—for once,—and so possessed her? . . .
We'll never know, you say, for she is dead.
You see that porcelain ranged there in the window—
Platters and soup-plates done with pale pink rosebuds,
And tiny violets, and wreaths of ivy?
See how the pattern clings to the gleaming edges!
They're works of art—minutely seen and felt,
Each petal done devoutly.  Is it failure
To spend your blood like this?
Study them . . . you will see there, in the porcelain,
If you stare hard enough, a sort of swimming
Of lights and shadows, ghosts within a crystal—
My brain unfolding!  There you'll see me sitting
Day after day, close to a certain window,
Looking down, sometimes, to see the people . . .
Sometimes my wife comes there to speak to me . . .
Sometimes the grey cat waves his tail around me . . .
Goldfish swim in a bowl, glisten in sunlight,
Dilate to a gorgeous size, blow delicate bubbles,
Drowse among dark green weeds.  On rainy days,
You'll see a gas-light shedding light behind me—
An eye-shade round my forehead.  There I sit,
Twirling the tiny brushes in my paint-cups,
Painting the pale pink rosebuds, minute violets,
Exquisite wreaths of dark green ivy leaves.
On this leaf, goes a dream I dreamed last night
Of two soft-patterned toads—I thought them stones,
Until they hopped!  And then a great black spider,—
Tarantula, perhaps, a hideous thing,—
It crossed the room in one tremendous leap.
Here,—as I coil the stems between two leaves,—
It is as if, dwindling to atomy size,
I cried the secret between two universes . . .
A friend of mine took hasheesh once, and said
Just as he fell asleep he had a dream,—
Though with his eyes wide open,—
And felt, or saw, or knew himself a part
Of marvelous slowly-wreathing intricate patterns,
Plane upon plane, depth upon coiling depth,
Amazing leaves, folding one on another,
Voluted grasses, twists and curves and spirals—
All of it darkly moving . . . as for me,
I need no hasheesh for it—it's too easy!
Soon as I shut my eyes I set out walking
In a monstrous jungle of monstrous pale pink roseleaves,
Violets purple as death, dripping with water,
And ivy-leaves as big as clouds above me.
Here, in a simple pattern of separate violets—
With scalloped edges gilded—here you have me
Thinking of something else.  My wife, you know,—
There's something lacking—force, or will, or passion,
I don't know what it is—and so, sometimes,
When I am tired, or haven't slept three nights,
Or it is cloudy, with low threat of rain,
I get uneasy—just like poplar trees
Ruffling their leaves—and I begin to think
Of poor Pauline, so many years ago,
And that delicious night.  Where is she now?
I meant to write—but she has moved, by this time,
And then, besides, she might find out I'm married.
Well, there is more—I'm getting old and timid—
The years have gnawed my will.  I've lost my nerve!
I never strike out boldly as I used to—
But sit here, painting violets, and remember
That thrilling night.  Photographers, she said,
Asked her to pose for them; her eyes and forehead,—
Dark brown eyes, and a smooth and pallid forehead,—
Were thought so beautiful.—And so they were.
Pauline . . .  These violets are like words remembered . . .
Darling! she whispered . . . Darling! . . . Darling! . . . Darling!
Well, I suppose such days can come but once.
Lord, how happy we were! . . .
Here, if you only knew it, is a story—
Here, in these leaves.  I stopped my work to tell it,
And then, when I had finished, went on thinking:
A man I saw on a train . . .  I was still a boy . . .
Who killed himself by diving against a wall.
Here is a recollection of my wife,
When she was still my sweetheart, years ago.
It's funny how things change,—just change, by growing,
Without an effort . . .  And here are trivial things,—
A chill, an errand forgotten, a cut while shaving;
A friend of mine who tells me he is married . . .
Or is that last so trivial?  Well, no matter!
This is the sort of thing you'll see of me,
If you look hard enough.  This, in its way,
Is a kind of fame.  My life arranged before you
In scrolls of leaves, rosebuds, violets, ivy,
Clustered or wreathed on plate and cup and platter . . .
Sometimes, I say, I'm just like John the Baptist—
You have my head before you . . . on a platter.
Wind blows.  Snow falls.  The great clock in its tower
Ticks with reverberant coil and tolls the hour:
At the deep sudden stroke the pigeons fly . . .
The fine snow flutes the cracks between the flagstones.
We close our coats, and hurry, and search the sky.
We are like music, each voice of it pursuing
A golden separate dream, remote, persistent,
Climbing to fire, receding to hoarse despair.
What do you whisper, brother?  What do you tell me? . . .
We pass each other, are lost, and do not care.
One mounts up to beauty, serenely singing,
Forgetful of the steps that cry behind him;
One drifts slowly down from a waking dream.
One, foreseeing, lingers forever unmoving . . .
Upward and downward, past him there, we stream.
One has death in his eyes: and walks more slowly.
Death, among jonquils, told him a freezing secret.
A cloud blows over his eyes, he ponders earth.
He sees in the world a forest of sunlit jonquils:
A slow black poison huddles beneath that mirth.
Death, from street to alley, from door to window,
Cries out his news,—of unplumbed worlds approaching,
Of a cloud of darkness soon to destroy the tower.
But why comes death,—he asks,—in a world so perfect?
Or why the minute's grey in the golden hour?
Music, a sudden glissando, sinister, troubled,
A drift of wind-torn petals, before him passes
Down jangled streets, and dies.
The bodies of old and young, of maimed and lovely,
Are slowly borne to earth, with a dirge of cries.
Down cobbled streets they come; down huddled stairways;
Through silent halls; through carven golden doorways;
From freezing rooms as bare as rock.
The curtains are closed across deserted windows.
Earth streams out of the shovel; the pebbles knock.
Mary, whose hands rejoiced to move in sunlight;
Silent Elaine; grave Anne, who sang so clearly;
Fugitive Helen, who loved and walked alone;
Miriam too soon dead, darkly remembered;
Childless Ruth, who sorrowed, but could not atone;
Jean, whose laughter flashed over depths of terror,
And Eloise, who desired to love but dared not;
Doris, who turned alone to the dark and cried,—
They are blown away like windflung chords of music,
They drift away; the sudden music has died.
And one, with death in his eyes, comes walking slowly
And sees the shadow of death in many faces,
And thinks the world is strange.
He desires immortal music and spring forever,
And beauty that knows no change.
We sit together and talk, or smoke in silence.
You say (but use no words) 'this night is passing
As other nights when we are dead will pass . . .'
Perhaps I misconstrue you: you mean only,
'How deathly pale my face looks in that glass . . .'
You say: 'We sit and talk, of things important . . .
How many others like ourselves, this instant,
Mark the pendulum swinging against the wall?
How many others, laughing, sip their coffee—
Or stare at mirrors, and do not talk at all? . . .
'This is the moment' (so you would say, in silence)
When suddenly we have had too much of laughter:
And a freezing stillness falls, no word to say.
Our mouths feel foolish . . .  For all the days hereafter
What have we saved—what news, what tune, what play?
'We see each other as vain and futile tricksters,—
Posturing like bald apes before a mirror;
No pity dims our eyes . . .
How many others, like ourselves, this instant,
See how the great world wizens, and are wise? . . .'
Well, you are right . . .  No doubt, they fall, these seconds . . .
When suddenly all's distempered, vacuous, ugly,
And even those most like angels creep for schemes.
The one you love leans forward, smiles, deceives you,
Opens a door through which you see dark dreams.
But this is momentary . . . or else, enduring,
Leads you with devious eyes through mists and poisons
To horrible chaos, or suicide, or crime . . .
And all these others who at your conjuration
Grow pale, feeling the skeleton touch of time,—
Or, laughing sadly, talk of things important,
Or stare at mirrors, startled to see their faces,
Or drown in the waveless vacuum of their days,—
Suddenly, as from sleep, awake, forgetting
This nauseous dream; take up their accustomed ways,
Exhume the ghost of a joke, renew loud laughter,
Forget the moles above their sweethearts' eyebrows,
Lean to the music, rise,
And dance once more in a rose-festooned illusion
With kindness in their eyes . . .
They say (as we ourselves have said, remember)
'What wizardry this slow waltz works upon us!
And how it brings to mind forgotten things!'
They say 'How strange it is that one such evening
Can wake vague memories of so many springs!'
And so they go . . .  In a thousand crowded places,
They sit to smile and talk, or rise to ragtime,
And, for their pleasures, agree or disagree.
With secret symbols they play on secret passions.
With cunning eyes they see
The innocent word that sets remembrance trembling,
The dubious word that sets the scared heart beating . . .
The pendulum on the wall
Shakes down seconds . . .  They laugh at time, dissembling;
Or coil for a victim and do not talk at all.
From time to time, lifting his eyes, he sees
The soft blue starlight through the one small window,
The moon above black trees, and clouds, and Venus,—
And turns to write . . .  The clock, behind ticks softly.
It is so long, indeed, since I have written,—
Two years, almost, your last is turning yellow,—
That these first words I write seem cold and strange.
Are you the man I knew, or have you altered?
Altered, of course—just as I too have altered—
And whether towards each other, or more apart,
We cannot say . . .  I've just re-read your letter—
Not through forgetfulness, but more for pleasure—
Pondering much on all you say in it
Of mystic consciousness—divine conversion—
The sense of oneness with the infinite,—
Faith in the world, its beauty, and its purpose . . .
Well, you believe one must have faith, in some sort,
If one's to talk through this dark world contented.
But is the world so dark?  Or is it rather
Our own brute minds,—in which we hurry, trembling,
Through streets as yet unlighted?  This, I think.
You have been always, let me say, "romantic,"—
Eager for color, for beauty, soon discontented
With a world of dust and stones and flesh too ailing:
Even before the question grew to problem
And drove you bickering into metaphysics,
You met on lower planes the same great dragon,
Seeking release, some fleeting satisfaction,
In strange aesthetics . . .  You tried, as I remember,
One after one, strange cults, and some, too, morbid,
The cruder first, more violent sensations,
Gorgeously carnal things, conceived and acted
With splendid animal thirst . . .  Then, by degrees,—
Savoring all more delicate gradations
In all that hue and tone may play on flesh,
Or thought on brain,—you passed, if I may say so,
From red and scarlet through morbid greens to mauve.
Let us regard ourselves, you used to say,
As instruments of music, whereon our lives
Will play as we desire: and let us yield
These subtle bodies and subtler brains and nerves
To all experience plays . . . And so you went
From subtle tune to subtler, each heard once,
Twice or thrice at the most, tiring of each;
And closing one by one your doors, drew in
Slowly, through darkening labyrinths of feeling,
Towards the central chamber . . .  Which now you've reached.
What, then's, the secret of this ultimate chamber—
Or innermost, rather?  If I see it clearly
It is the last, and cunningest, resort
Of one who has found this world of dust and flesh,—
This world of lamentations, death, injustice,
Sickness, humiliation, slow defeat,
Bareness, and ugliness, and iteration,—
Too meaningless; or, if it has a meaning,
Too tiresomely insistent on one meaning:
Futility . . .  This world, I hear you saying,—
With lifted chin, and arm in outflung gesture,
Coldly imperious,—this transient world,
What has it then to give, if not containing
Deep hints of nobler worlds?  We know its beauties,—
Momentary and trivial for the most part,
Perceived through flesh, passing like flesh away,—
And know how much outweighed they are by darkness.
We are like searchers in a house of darkness,
A house of dust; we creep with little lanterns,
Throwing our tremulous arcs of light at random,
Now here, now there, seeing a plane, an angle,
An edge, a curve, a wall, a broken stairway
Leading to who knows what; but never seeing
The whole at once . . .  We grope our way a little,
And then grow tired.  No matter what we touch,
Dust is the answer—dust: dust everywhere.
If this were all—what were the use, you ask?
But this is not: for why should we be seeking,
Why should we bring this need to seek for beauty,
To lift our minds, if there were only dust?
This is the central chamber you have come to:
Turning your back to the world, until you came
To this deep room, and looked through rose-stained windows,
And saw the hues of the world so sweetly changed.
Well, in a measure, so only do we all.
I am not sure that you can be refuted.
At the very last we all put faith in something,—
You in this ghost that animates your world,
This ethical ghost,—and I, you'll say, in reason,—
Or sensuous beauty,—or in my secret self . . .
Though as for that you put your faith in these,
As much as I do—and then, forsaking reason,—
Ascending, you would say, to intuition,—
You predicate this ghost of yours, as well.
Of course, you might have argued,—and you should have,—
That no such deep appearance of design
Could shape our world without entailing purpose:
For can design exist without a purpose?
Without conceiving mind? . . .  We are like children
Who find, upon the sands, beside a sea,
Strange patterns drawn,—circles, arcs, ellipses,
Moulded in sand . . .  Who put them there, we wonder?
Did someone draw them here before we came?
Or was it just the sea?—We pore upon them,
But find no answer—only suppositions.
And if these perfect shapes are evidence
Of immanent mind, it is but circumstantial:
We never come upon him at his work,
He never troubles us.  He stands aloof—
Well, if he stands at all: is not concerned
With what we are or do.  You, if you like,
May think he broods upon us, loves us, hates us,
Conceives some purpose of us.  In so doing
You see, without much reason, will in law.
I am content to say, 'this world is ordered,
Happily so for us, by accident:
We go our ways untroubled save by laws
Of natural things.'  Who makes the more assumption?
If we were wise—which God knows we are not—
(Notice I call on God!) we'd plumb this riddle
Not in the world we see, but in ourselves.
These brains of ours—these delicate spinal clusters—
Have limits: why not learn them, learn their cravings?
Which of the two minds, yours or mine, is sound?
Yours, which scorned the world that gave it freedom,
Until you managed to see that world as omen,—
Or mine, which likes the world, takes all for granted,
Sorrow as much as joy, and death as life?—
You lean on dreams, and take more credit for it.
I stand alone . . .  Well, I take credit, too.
You find your pleasure in being at one with all things—
Fusing in lambent dream, rising and falling
As all things rise and fall . . .  I do that too—
With reservations.  I find more varied pleasure
In understanding: and so find beauty even
In this strange dream of yours you call the truth.
Well, I have bored you.  And it's growing late.
For household news—what have you heard, I wonder?
You must have heard that Paul was dead, by this time—
Of spinal cancer.  Nothing could be done—
We found it out too late.  His death has changed me,
Deflected much of me that lived as he lived,
Saddened me, slowed me down.  Such things will happen,
Life is composed of them; and it seems wisdom
To see them clearly, meditate upon them,
And understand what things flow out of them.
Otherwise, all goes on here much as always.
Why won't you come and see us, in the spring,
And bring old times with you?—If you could see me
Sitting here by the window, watching Venus
Go down behind my neighbor's poplar branches,—
Just where you used to sit,—I'm sure you'd come.
This year, they say, the springtime will be early.
Now, when the moon slid under the cloud
And the cold clear dark of starlight fell,
He heard in his blood the well-known bell
Tolling slowly in heaves of sound,
Slowly beating, slowly beating,
Shaking its pulse on the stagnant air:
Sometimes it swung completely round,
Horribly gasping as if for breath;
Falling down with an anguished cry . . .
Now the red bat, he mused, will fly;
Something is marked, this night, for death . . .
And while he mused, along his blood
Flew ghostly voices, remote and thin,
They rose in the cavern of his brain,
Like ghosts they died away again;
And hands upon his heart were laid,
And music upon his flesh was played,
Until, as he was bidden to do,
He walked the wood he so well knew.
Through the cold dew he moved his feet,
And heard far off, as under the earth,
Discordant music in shuddering tones,
Screams of laughter, horrible mirth,
Clapping of hands, and thudding of drums,
And the long-drawn wail of one in pain.
To-night, he thought, I shall die again,
We shall die again in the red-eyed fire
To meet on the edge of the wood beyond
With the placid gaze of fed desire . . .
He walked; and behind the whisper of trees,
In and out, one walked with him:
She parted the branches and peered at him,
Through lowered lids her two eyes burned,
He heard her breath, he saw her hand,
Wherever he turned his way, she turned:
Kept pace with him, now fast, now slow;
Moving her white knees as he moved . . .
This is the one I have always loved;
This is the one whose bat-soul comes
To dance with me, flesh to flesh,
In the starlight dance of horns and drums . . .
The walls and roofs, the scarlet towers,
Sank down behind a rushing sky.
He heard a sweet song just begun
Abruptly shatter in tones and die.
It whirled away.  Cold silence fell.
And again came tollings of a bell.
*     *     *     *     *
This air is alive with witches: the white witch rides
Swifter than smoke on the starlit wind.
In the clear darkness, while the moon hides,
They come like dreams, like something remembered . .
Let us hurry! beloved; take my hand,
Forget these things that trouble your eyes,
Forget, forget!  Our flesh is changed,
Lighter than smoke we wreathe and rise . . .
The cold air hisses between us . . . Beloved, beloved,
What was the word you said?
Something about clear music that sang through water . . .
I cannot remember.  The storm-drops break on the leaves.
Something was lost in the darkness.  Someone is dead.
Someone lies in the garden and grieves.
Look how the branches are tossed in this air,
Flinging their green to the earth!
Black clouds rush to devour the stars in the sky,
The moon stares down like a half-closed eye.
The leaves are scattered, the birds are blown,
Oaks crash down in the darkness,
We run from our windy shadows; we are running alone.
*     *     *     *     *
The moon was darkened: across it flew
The swift grey tenebrous shape he knew,
Like a thing of smoke it crossed the sky,
The witch! he said.  And he heard a cry,
And another came, and another came,
And one, grown duskily red with blood,
Floated an instant across the moon,
Hung like a dull fantastic flame . . .
The earth has veins: they throb to-night,
The earth swells warm beneath my feet,
The tips of the trees grow red and bright,
The leaves are swollen, I feel them beat,
They press together, they push and sigh,
They listen to hear the great bat cry,
The great red bat with the woman's face . . .
Hurry! he said.  And pace for pace
That other, who trod the dark with him,
Crushed the live leaves, reached out white hands
And closed her eyes, the better to see
The priests with claws, the lovers with hooves,
The fire-lit rock, the sarabands.
I am here! she said.  The bough he broke—
Was it the snapping bough that spoke?
I am here! she said.  The white thigh gleamed
Cold in starlight among dark leaves,
The head thrown backward as he had dreamed,
The shadowy red deep jasper mouth;
And the lifted hands, and the virgin breasts,
Passed beside him, and vanished away.
I am here! she cried.  He answered 'Stay!'
And laughter arose, and near and far
Answering laughter rose and died . . .
Who is there? in the dark? he cried.
He stood in terror, and heard a sound
Of terrible hooves on the hollow ground;
They rushed, were still; a silence fell;
And he heard deep tollings of a bell.
*     *     *     *     *
Look beloved!  Why do you hide your face?
Look, in the centre there, above the fire,
They are bearing the boy who blasphemed love!
They are playing a piercing music upon him
With a bow of living wire! . . .
The virgin harlot sings,
She leans above the beautiful anguished body,
And draws slow music from those strings.
They dance around him, they fling red roses upon him,
They trample him with their naked feet,
His cries are lost in laughter,
Their feet grow dark with his blood, they beat and
beat,
They dance upon him, until he cries no more . . .
Have we not heard that cry before?
Somewhere, somewhere,
Beside a sea, in the green evening,
Beneath green clouds, in a copper sky . . .
Was it you? was it I?
They have quenched the fires, they dance in the darkness,
The satyrs have run among them to seize and tear,
Look! he has caught one by the hair,
She screams and falls, he bears her away with him,
And the night grows full of whistling wings.
Far off, one voice, serene and sweet,
Rises and sings . . .
'By the clear waters where once I died,
In the calm evening bright with stars. . . .'
Where have I heard these words?  Was it you who sang them?
It was long ago.
Let us hurry, beloved! the hard hooves trample;
The treetops tremble and glow.
*     *     *     *     *
In the clear dark, on silent wings,
The red bat hovers beneath her moon;
She drops through the fragrant night, and clings
Fast in the shadow, with hands like claws,
With soft eyes closed and mouth that feeds,
To the young white flesh that warmly bleeds.
The maidens circle in dance, and raise
From lifting throats, a soft-sung praise;
Their knees and breasts are white and bare,
They have hung pale roses in their hair,
Each of them as she dances by
Peers at the blood with a narrowed eye.
See how the red wing wraps him round,
See how the white youth struggles in vain!
The weak arms writhe in a soundless pain;
He writhes in the soft red veiny wings,
But still she whispers upon him and clings. . . .
This is the secret feast of love,
Look well, look well, before it dies,
See how the red one trembles above,
See how quiet the white one lies! . . . .
Wind through the trees. . . .and a voice is heard
Singing far off.  The dead leaves fall. . . .
'By the clear waters where once I died,
In the calm evening bright with stars,
One among numberless avatars,
I wedded a mortal, a mortal bride,
And lay on the stones and gave my flesh,
And entered the hunger of him I loved.
How shall I ever escape this mesh
Or be from my lover's body removed?'
Dead leaves stream through the hurrying air
And the maenads dance with flying hair.
*     *     *     *     *
The priests with hooves, the lovers with horns,
Rise in the starlight, one by one,
They draw their knives on the spurting throats,
They smear the column with blood of goats,
They dabble the blood on hair and lips
And wait like stones for the moon's eclipse.
They stand like stones and stare at the sky
Where the moon leers down like a half-closed eye. . .
In the green moonlight still they stand
While wind flows over the darkened sand
And brood on the soft forgotten things
That filled their shadowy yesterdays. . . .
Where are the breasts, the scarlet wings? . . . .
They gaze at each other with troubled gaze. . . .
And then, as the shadow closes the moon,
Shout, and strike with their hooves the ground,
And rush through the dark, and fill the night
With a slowly dying clamor of sound.
There, where the great walls crowd the stars,
There, by the black wind-riven walls,
In a grove of twisted leafless trees. . . .
Who are these pilgrims, who are these,
These three, the one of whom stands upright,
While one lies weeping and one of them crawls?
The face that he turned was a wounded face,
I heard the dripping of blood on stones. . . .
Hooves had trampled and torn this place,
And the leaves were strewn with blood and bones.
Sometimes, I think, beneath my feet,
The warm earth stretches herself and sighs. . . .
Listen!  I heard the slow heart beat. . . .
I will lie on this grass as a lover lies
And reach to the north and reach to the south
And seek in the darkness for her mouth.
*     *     *     *     *
Beloved, beloved, where the slow waves of the wind
Shatter pale foam among great trees,
Under the hurrying stars, under the heaving arches,
Like one whirled down under shadowy seas,
I run to find you, I run and cry,
Where are you?  Where are you?  It is I.  It is I.
It is your eyes I seek, it is your windy hair,
Your starlight body that breathes in the darkness there.
Under the darkness I feel you stirring. . . .
Is this you?  Is this you?
Bats in this air go whirring. . . .
And this soft mouth that darkly meets my mouth,
Is this the soft mouth I knew?
Darkness, and wind in the tortured trees;
And the patter of dew.
*     *     *     *     *
Dance!  Dance!  Dance!  Dance!
Dance till the brain is red with speed!
Dance till you fall!  Lift your torches!
Kiss your lovers until they bleed!
Backward I draw your anguished hair
Until your eyes are stretched with pain;
Backward I press you until you cry,
Your lips grow white, I kiss you again,
I will take a torch and set you afire,
I will break your body and fling it away. . . .
Look, you are trembling. . . .Lie still, beloved!
Lock your hands in my hair, and say
Darling! darling! darling! darling!
All night long till the break of day.
Is it your heart I hear beneath me. . . .
Or the far tolling of that tower?
The voices are still that cried around us. . . .
The woods grow still for the sacred hour.
Rise, white lover! the day draws near.
The grey trees lean to the east in fear.
'By the clear waters where once I died . . . .'
Beloved, whose voice was this that cried?
'By the clear waters that reach the sun
By the clear waves that starward run. . . .
I found love's body and lost his soul,
And crumbled in flame that should have annealed. . .
How shall I ever again be whole,
By what dark waters shall I be healed?'
Silence. . . .the red leaves, one by one,
Fall.  Far off, the maenads run.
Silence.  Beneath my naked feet
The veins of the red earth swell and beat.
The dead leaves sigh on the troubled air,
Far off the maenads bind their hair. . . .
Hurry, beloved! the day comes soon.
The fire is drawn from the heart of the moon.
*     *     *     *     *
The great bell cracks and falls at last.
The moon whirls out.  The sky grows still.
Look, how the white cloud crosses the stars
And suddenly drops behind the hill!
Your eyes are placid, you smile at me,
We sit in the room by candle-light.
We peer in each other's veins and see
No sign of the things we saw this night.
Only, a song is in your ears,
A song you have heard, you think, in dream:
The song which only the demon hears,
In the dark forest where maenads scream . . .
'By the clear waters where once I died . . .
In the calm evening bright with stars . . . '
What do the strange words mean? you say,—
And touch my hand, and turn away.
'This envelope you say has something in it
Which once belonged to your dead son—or something
He knew, was fond of?  Something he remembers?—
The soul flies far, and we can only call it
By things like these . . . a photograph, a letter,
Ribbon, or charm, or watch . . . '
. . .  Wind flows softly, the long slow even wind,
Over the low roofs white with snow;
Wind blows, bearing cold clouds over the ocean,
One by one they melt and flow,—
Streaming one by one over trees and towers,
Coiling and gleaming in shafts of sun;
Wind flows, bearing clouds; the hurrying shadows
Flow under them one by one . . .
' . . . A spirit darkens before me . . . it is the spirit
Which in the flesh you called your son . . . A spirit
Young and strong and beautiful . . .
He says that he is happy, is much honored;
Forgives and is forgiven . . . rain and wind
Do not perplex him . . . storm and dust forgotten . .
The glittering wheels in wheels of time are broken
And laid aside . . . '
'Ask him why he did the thing he did!'
'He is unhappy.  This thing, he says, transcends you:
Dust cannot hold what shines beyond the dust . . .
What seems calamity is less than a sigh;
What seems disgrace is nothing.'
'Ask him if the one he hurt is there,
And if she loves him still!'
'He tells you she is there, and loves him still,—
Not as she did, but as all spirits love . . .
A cloud of spirits has gathered about him.
They praise him and call him, they do him honor;
He is more beautiful, he shines upon them.'
. . .  Wind flows softly, the long deep tremulous wind,
Over the low roofs white with snow . . .
Wind flows, bearing dreams; they gather and vanish,
One by one they sing and flow;
Over the outstretched lands of days remembered,
Over remembered tower and wall,
One by one they gather and talk in the darkness,
Rise and glimmer and fall . . .
'Ask him why he did the thing he did!
He knows I will understand!'
'It is too late:
He will not hear me: I have lost my power.'
'Three times I've asked him!  He will never tell me.
God have mercy upon him.  I will ask no more.'
The door is shut.  She leaves the curtained office,
And down the grey-walled stairs comes trembling slowly
Towards the dazzling street.
Her withered hand clings tightly to the railing.
The long stairs rise and fall beneath her feet.
Here in the brilliant sun we jostle, waiting
To tear her secret out . . . We laugh, we hurry,
We go our way, revolving, sinister, slow.
She blinks in the sun, and then steps faintly downward.
We whirl her away, we shout, we spin, we flow.
Where have you been, old lady?  We know your secret!—
Voices jangle about her, jeers, and laughter. . . .
She trembles, tries to hurry, averts her eyes.
Tell us the truth, old lady! where have you been?
She turns and turns, her brain grows dark with cries.
Look at the old fool tremble!  She's been paying,—
Paying good money, too,—to talk to spirits. . . .
She thinks she's heard a message from one dead!
What did he tell you?  Is he well and happy?
Don't lie to us—we all know what he said.
He said the one he murdered once still loves him;
He said the wheels in wheels of time are broken;
And dust and storm forgotten; and all forgiven. . . .
But what you asked he wouldn't tell you, though,—
Ha ha! there's one thing you will never know!
That's what you get for meddling so with heaven!
Where have you been, old lady?  Where are you going?
We know, we know!  She's been to gab with spirits.
Look at the old fool! getting ready to cry!
What have you got in an envelope, old lady?
A lock of hair?  An eyelash from his eye?
How do you know the medium didn't fool you?
Perhaps he had no spirit—perhaps he killed it.
Here she comes! the old fool's lost her son.
What did he have—blue eyes and golden hair?
We know your secret! what's done is done.
Look out, you'll fall—and fall, if you're not careful,
Right into an open grave. . . .but what's the hurry?
You don't think you will find him when you're dead?
Cry!  Cry!  Look at her mouth all twisted,—
Look at her eyes all red!
We know you—know your name and all about you,
All you remember and think, and all you scheme for.
We tear your secret out, we leave you, go
Laughingly down the street. . . .Die, if you want to!
Die, then, if you're in such a hurry to know!—
. . . .She falls.  We lift her head.  The wasted body
Weighs nothing in our hands.  Does no one know her?
Was no one with her when she fell? . . .
We eddy about her, move away in silence.
We hear slow tollings of a bell.
Well, as you say, we live for small horizons:
We move in crowds, we flow and talk together,
Seeing so many eyes and hands and faces,
So many mouths, and all with secret meanings,—
Yet know so little of them; only seeing
The small bright circle of our consciousness,
Beyond which lies the dark.  Some few we know—
Or think we know. . .  Once, on a sun-bright morning,
I walked in a certain hallway, trying to find
A certain door: I found one, tried it, opened,
And there in a spacious chamber, brightly lighted,
A hundred men played music, loudly, swiftly,
While one tall woman sent her voice above them
In powerful sweetness. . . .Closing then the door
I heard it die behind me, fade to whisper,—
And walked in a quiet hallway as before.
Just such a glimpse, as through that opened door,
Is all we know of those we call our friends. . . .
We hear a sudden music, see a playing
Of ordered thoughts—and all again is silence.
The music, we suppose, (as in ourselves)
Goes on forever there, behind shut doors,—
As it continues after our departure,
So, we divine, it played before we came . . .
What do you know of me, or I of you? . . .
Little enough. . . .We set these doors ajar
Only for chosen movements of the music:
This passage, (so I think—yet this is guesswork)
Will please him,—it is in a strain he fancies,—
More brilliant, though, than his; and while he likes it
He will be piqued . . . He looks at me bewildered
And thinks (to judge from self—this too is guesswork)
The music strangely subtle, deep in meaning,
Perplexed with implications; he suspects me
Of hidden riches, unexpected wisdom. . . .
Or else I let him hear a lyric passage,—
Simple and clear; and all the while he listens
I make pretence to think my doors are closed.
This too bewilders him.  He eyes me sidelong
Wondering 'Is he such a fool as this?
Or only mocking?'—There I let it end. . . .
Sometimes, of course, and when we least suspect it—
When we pursue our thoughts with too much passion,
Talking with too great zeal—our doors fly open
Without intention; and the hungry watcher
Stares at the feast, carries away our secrets,
And laughs. . . .but this, for many counts, is seldom.
And for the most part we vouchsafe our friends,
Our lovers too, only such few clear notes
As we shall deem them likely to admire:
'Praise me for this' we say, or 'laugh at this,'
Or 'marvel at my candor'. . . .all the while
Withholding what's most precious to ourselves,—
Some sinister depth of lust or fear or hatred,
The sombre note that gives the chord its power;
Or a white loveliness—if such we know—
Too much like fire to speak of without shame.
Well, this being so, and we who know it being
So curious about those well-locked houses,
The minds of those we know,—to enter softly,
And steal from floor to floor up shadowy stairways,
From room to quiet room, from wall to wall,
Breathing deliberately the very air,
Pressing our hands and nerves against warm darkness
To learn what ghosts are there,—
Suppose for once I set my doors wide open
And bid you in. . . .Suppose I try to tell you
The secrets of this house, and how I live here;
Suppose I tell you who I am, in fact. . . .
Deceiving you—as far as I may know it—
Only so much as I deceive myself.
If you are clever you already see me
As one who moves forever in a cloud
Of warm bright vanity: a luminous cloud
Which falls on all things with a quivering magic,
Changing such outlines as a light may change,
Brightening what lies dark to me, concealing
Those things that will not change . . . I walk sustained
In a world of things that flatter me: a sky
Just as I would have had it; trees and grass
Just as I would have shaped and colored them;
Pigeons and clouds and sun and whirling shadows,
And stars that brightening climb through mist at nightfall,—
In some deep way I am aware these praise me:
Where they are beautiful, or hint of beauty,
They point, somehow, to me. . . .This water says,—
Shimmering at the sky, or undulating
In broken gleaming parodies of clouds,
Rippled in blue, or sending from cool depths
To meet the falling leaf the leaf's clear image,—
This water says, there is some secret in you
Akin to my clear beauty, silently responsive
To all that circles you.  This bare tree says,—
Austere and stark and leafless, split with frost,
Resonant in the wind, with rigid branches
Flung out against the sky,—this tall tree says,
There is some cold austerity in you,
A frozen strength, with long roots gnarled on rocks,
Fertile and deep; you bide your time, are patient,
Serene in silence, bare to outward seeming,
Concealing what reserves of power and beauty!
What teeming Aprils!—chorus of leaves on leaves!
These houses say, such walls in walls as ours,
Such streets of walls, solid and smooth of surface,
Such hills and cities of walls, walls upon walls;
Motionless in the sun, or dark with rain;
Walls pierced with windows, where the light may enter;
Walls windowless where darkness is desired;
Towers and labyrinths and domes and chambers,—
Amazing deep recesses, dark on dark,—
All these are like the walls which shape your spirit:
You move, are warm, within them, laugh within them,
Proud of their depth and strength; or sally from them,
When you are bold, to blow great horns at the world. .
This deep cool room, with shadowed walls and ceiling,
Tranquil and cloistral, fragrant of my mind,
This cool room says,—just such a room have you,
It waits you always at the tops of stairways,
Withdrawn, remote, familiar to your uses,
Where you may cease pretence and be yourself. . . .
And this embroidery, hanging on this wall,
Hung there forever,—these so soundless glidings
Of dragons golden-scaled, sheer birds of azure,
Coilings of leaves in pale vermilion, griffins
Drawing their rainbow wings through involutions
Of mauve chrysanthemums and lotus flowers,—
This goblin wood where someone cries enchantment,—
This says, just such an involuted beauty
Of thought and coiling thought, dream linked with dream,
Image to image gliding, wreathing fires,
Soundlessly cries enchantment in your mind:
You need but sit and close your eyes a moment
To see these deep designs unfold themselves.
And so, all things discern me, name me, praise me—
I walk in a world of silent voices, praising;
And in this world you see me like a wraith
Blown softly here and there, on silent winds.
'Praise me'—I say; and look, not in a glass,
But in your eyes, to see my image there—
Or in your mind; you smile, I am contented;
You look at me, with interest unfeigned,
And listen—I am pleased; or else, alone,
I watch thin bubbles veering brightly upward
From unknown depths,—my silver thoughts ascending;
Saying now this, now that, hinting of all things,—
Dreams, and desires, velleities, regrets,
Faint ghosts of memory, strange recognitions,—
But all with one deep meaning: this is I,
This is the glistening secret holy I,
This silver-winged wonder, insubstantial,
This singing ghost. . . .And hearing, I am warmed.
*     *     *     *     *
You see me moving, then, as one who moves
Forever at the centre of his circle:
A circle filled with light.  And into it
Come bulging shapes from darkness, loom gigantic,
Or huddle in dark again. . . .A clock ticks clearly,
A gas-jet steadily whirs, light streams across me;
Two church bells, with alternate beat, strike nine;
And through these things my pencil pushes softly
To weave grey webs of lines on this clear page.
Snow falls and melts; the eaves make liquid music;
Black wheel-tracks line the snow-touched street; I turn
And look one instant at the half-dark gardens,
Where skeleton elm-trees reach with frozen gesture
Above unsteady lamps,—with black boughs flung
Against a luminous snow-filled grey-gold sky.
'Beauty!' I cry. . . .My feet move on, and take me
Between dark walls, with orange squares for windows.
Beauty; beheld like someone half-forgotten,
Remembered, with slow pang, as one neglected . . .
Well, I am frustrate; life has beaten me,
The thing I strongly seized has turned to darkness,
And darkness rides my heart. . . .These skeleton elm-trees—
Leaning against that grey-gold snow filled sky—
Beauty! they say, and at the edge of darkness
Extend vain arms in a frozen gesture of protest . . .
A clock ticks softly; a gas-jet steadily whirs:
The pencil meets its shadow upon clear paper,
Voices are raised, a door is slammed.  The lovers,
Murmuring in an adjacent room, grow silent,
The eaves make liquid music. . . .Hours have passed,
And nothing changes, and everything is changed.
Exultation is dead, Beauty is harlot,—
And walks the streets.  The thing I strongly seized
Has turned to darkness, and darkness rides my heart.
If you could solve this darkness you would have me.
This causeless melancholy that comes with rain,
Or on such days as this when large wet snowflakes
Drop heavily, with rain . . . whence rises this?
Well, so-and-so, this morning when I saw him,
Seemed much preoccupied, and would not smile;
And you, I saw too much; and you, too little;
And the word I chose for you, the golden word,
The word that should have struck so deep in purpose,
And set so many doors of wish wide open,
You let it fall, and would not stoop for it,
And smiled at me, and would not let me guess
Whether you saw it fall. . . These things, together,
With other things, still slighter, wove to music,
And this in time drew up dark memories;
And there I stand.  This music breaks and bleeds me,
Turning all frustrate dreams to chords and discords,
Faces and griefs, and words, and sunlit evenings,
And chains self-forged that will not break nor lengthen,
And cries that none can answer, few will hear.
Have these things meaning?  Or would you see more clearly
If I should say 'My second wife grows tedious,
Or, like gay tulip, keeps no perfumed secret'?
Or 'one day dies eventless as another,
Leaving the seeker still unsatisfied,
And more convinced life yields no satisfaction'?
Or 'seek too hard, the sight at length grows callous,
And beauty shines in vain'?—
These things you ask for,
These you shall have. . . So, talking with my first wife,
At the dark end of evening, when she leaned
And smiled at me, with blue eyes weaving webs
Of finest fire, revolving me in scarlet,—
Calling to mind remote and small successions
Of countless other evenings ending so,—
I smiled, and met her kiss, and wished her dead;
Dead of a sudden sickness, or by my hands
Savagely killed; I saw her in her coffin,
I saw her coffin borne downstairs with trouble,
I saw myself alone there, palely watching,
Wearing a masque of grief so deeply acted
That grief itself possessed me.  Time would pass,
And I should meet this girl,—my second wife—
And drop the masque of grief for one of passion.
Forward we move to meet, half hesitating,
We drown in each others' eyes, we laugh, we talk,
Looking now here, now there, faintly pretending
We do not hear the powerful pulsing prelude
Roaring beneath our words . . . The time approaches.
We lean unbalanced.  The mute last glance between us,
Profoundly searching, opening, asking, yielding,
Is steadily met: our two lives draw together . . .
. . . .'What are you thinking of?'. . . .My first wife's voice
Scattered these ghosts.  'Oh nothing—nothing much—
Just wondering where we'd be two years from now,
And what we might be doing . . . ' And then remorse
Turned sharply in my mind to sudden pity,
And pity to echoed love.  And one more evening
Drew to the usual end of sleep and silence.
And, as it is with this, so too with all things.
The pages of our lives are blurred palimpsest:
New lines are wreathed on old lines half-erased,
And those on older still; and so forever.
The old shines through the new, and colors it.
What's new?  What's old?  All things have double meanings,—
All things return.  I write a line with passion
(Or touch a woman's hand, or plumb a doctrine)
Only to find the same thing, done before,—
Only to know the same thing comes to-morrow. . . .
This curious riddled dream I dreamed last night,—
Six years ago I dreamed it just as now;
The same man stooped to me; we rose from darkness,
And broke the accustomed order of our days,
And struck for the morning world, and warmth, and freedom. . . .
What does it mean?  Why is this hint repeated?
What darkness does it spring from, seek to end?
You see me, then, pass up and down these stairways,
Now through a beam of light, and now through shadow,—
Pursuing silent ends.  No rest there is,—
No more for me than you.  I move here always,
From quiet room to room, from wall to wall,
Searching and plotting, weaving a web of days.
This is my house, and now, perhaps, you know me. . .
Yet I confess, for all my best intentions,
Once more I have deceived you. . . .I withhold
The one thing precious, the one dark thing that guides me;
And I have spread two snares for you, of lies.
BOOK I    Incipit liber primus.
God turne us every dreem to gode!
For hit is wonder, be the rode,
To my wit, what causeth swevens
Either on morwes, or on evens;
And why the effect folweth of somme,
And of somme hit shal never come;
Why that is an avisioun,
And this a revelacioun,
Why this a dreem, why that a sweven,
And nat to every man liche even;
Why this a fantom, these oracles,
I noot; but who-so of these miracles
The causes knoweth bet than I,
Devyne he; for I certeinly
Ne can hem noght, ne never thinke
To besily my wit to swinke,
To knowe of hir signifiaunce
The gendres, neither the distaunce
Of tymes of hem, ne the causes,
For-why this more than that cause is;
As if folkes complexiouns
Make hem dreme of reflexiouns;
Or ellis thus, as other sayn,
For to greet feblenesse of brayn,
By abstinence, or by seeknesse,
Prison, stewe, or greet distresse;
Or elles by disordinaunce
Of naturel acustomaunce,
That som man is to curious
In studie, or melancolious,
Or thus, so inly ful of drede,
That no man may him bote bede;
Or elles, that devocioun
Of somme, and contemplacioun
Causeth swiche dremes ofte;
Or that the cruel lyf unsofte
Which these ilke lovers leden
That hopen over muche or dreden,
That purely hir impressiouns
Causeth hem avisiouns;
Or if that spirites have the might
To make folk to dreme a-night
Or if the soule, of propre kinde
Be so parfit, as men finde,
That hit forwot that is to come,
And that hit warneth alle and somme
Of everiche of hir aventures
Be avisiouns, or by figures,
But that our flesh ne hath no might
To understonden hit aright,
For hit is warned to derkly; --
But why the cause is, noght wot I.
Wel worthe, of this thing, grete clerkes,
That trete of this and other werkes;
For I of noon opinioun
Nil as now make mensioun,
But only that the holy rode
Turne us every dreem to gode!
For never, sith that I was born,
Ne no man elles, me biforn,
Mette, I trowe stedfastly,
So wonderful a dreem as I
The tenthe day dide of Decembre,
The which, as I can now remembre,
I wol yow tellen every del,
The Invocation
But at my ginninge, trusteth wel,
I wol make invocacioun,
With special devocioun,
Unto the god of slepe anoon,
That dwelleth in a cave of stoon
Upon a streem that cometh fro Lete,
That is a flood of helle unswete;
Besyde a folk men clepe Cimerie,
Ther slepeth ay this god unmerie
With his slepy thousand sones
That alway for to slepe hir wone is --
And to this god, that I of rede,
Prey I, that he wol me spede
My sweven for to telle aright,
If every dreem stonde in his might.
And he, that mover is of al
That is and was, and ever shal,
So yive hem Ioye that hit here
Of alle that they dreme to-yere,
And for to stonden alle in grace
Of hir loves, or in what place
That hem wer levest for to stonde,
And shelde hem fro poverte and shonde,
And fro unhappe and eche disese,
And sende hem al that may hem plese,
That take hit wel, and scorne hit noght,
Ne hit misdemen in her thoght
Through malicious entencioun.
And who-so, through presumpcioun,
Or hate or scorne, or through envye,
Dispyt, or Iape, or vilanye,
Misdeme hit, preye I Iesus god
That (dreme he barfoot, dreme he shod),
That every harm that any man
Hath had, sith that the world began,
Befalle him therof, or he sterve,
And graunte he mote hit ful deserve,
Lo! with swich a conclusioun
As had of his avisioun
Cresus, that was king of Lyde,
That high upon a gebet dyde!
This prayer shal he have of me;
I am no bet in charite!
Now herkneth, as I have you seyd,
What that I mette or I abreyd.
The Dream
Of Decembre the tenthe day,
Whan hit was night, to slepe I lay
Right ther as I was wont to done,
And fil on slepe wonder sone,
As he that wery was for-go
On pilgrimage myles two
To the corseynt Leonard,
To make lythe of that was hard.
But as I sleep, me mette I was
Within a temple y-mad of glas;
In whiche ther were mo images
Of gold, stondinge in sondry stages,
And mo riche tabernacles,
And with perre mo pinacles,
And mo curious portreytures,
And queynte maner of figures
Of olde werke, then I saw ever.
For certeynly, I niste never
Wher that I was, but wel wiste I,
Hit was of Venus redely,
The temple; for, in portreyture,
I sawgh anoon-right hir figure
Naked fletinge in a see.
And also on hir heed, parde,
Hir rose-garlond whyt and reed,
And hir comb to kembe hir heed,
Hir dowves, and daun Cupido
Hir blinde sone, and Vulcano,
That in his face was ful broun.
But as I romed up and doun,
I fond that on a wal ther was
Thus writen, on a table of bras:
`I wol now singe, if that I can,
The armes, and al-so the man,
That first cam, through his destinee,
Fugitif of Troye contree,
In Itaile, with ful moche pyne,
Unto the strondes of Lavyne.'
And tho began the story anoon,
As I shal telle yow echoon.
First saw I the destruccioun
Of Troye, through the Greek Sinoun,
That with his false forsweringe,
And his chere and his lesinge
Made the hors broght into Troye,
Thorgh which Troyens loste al hir Ioye.
And after this was grave, allas!
How Ilioun assailed was
And wonne, and King Priam y-slayn,
And Polites his sone, certayn,
Dispitously, of dan Pirrus.
And next that saw I how Venus,
Whan that she saw the castel brende,
Doun fro the hevene gan descende,
And bad hir sone Eneas flee;
And how he fledde, and how that he
Escaped was from al the pres,
And took his fader, Anchises,
And bar him on his bakke away,
Cryinge, `Allas, and welaway!'
The whiche Anchises in his honde
Bar the goddes of the londe,
Thilke that unbrende were.
And I saw next, in alle this fere,
How Creusa, daun Eneas wyf,
Which that he lovede as his lyf,
And hir yonge sone Iulo,
And eek Ascanius also,
Fledden eek with drery chere,
That hit was pitee for to here;
And in a forest, as they wente,
At a turninge of a wente,
How Creusa was y-lost, allas!
That deed, but noot I how, she was;
How he hir soughte, and how hir gost
Bad him to flee the Grekes ost,
And seyde he most unto Itaile,
As was his destinee, sauns faille;
That hit was pitee for to here,
Whan hir spirit gan appere,
The wordes that she to him seyde,
And for to kepe hir sone him preyde.
Ther saw I graven eek how he,
His fader eek, and his meynee,
With his shippes gan to sayle
Toward the contree of Itaile,
As streight as that they mighte go.
Ther saw I thee, cruel Iuno,
That art daun Iupiteres wyf,
That hast y-hated, al thy lyf,
Al the Troyanisshe blood,
Renne and crye, as thou were wood,
On Eolus, the god of windes,
To blowen out, of alle kindes,
So loude, that he shulde drenche
Lord and lady, grome and wenche,
Of al the Troyan nacioun,
Withoute any savacioun.
Ther saw I swich tempeste aryse,
That every herte mighte agryse,
To see hit peynted on the walle.
Ther saw I graven eek withalle,
Venus, how ye, my lady dere,
Wepinge with ful woful chere,
Prayen Iupiter an hye
To save and kepe that navye
Of the Troyan Eneas,
Sith that he hir sone was.
Ther saw I Ioves Venus kisse,
And graunted of the tempest lisse.
Ther saw I how the tempest stente,
And how with alle pyne he wente,
And prevely took arrivage
In the contree of Cartage;
And on the morwe, how that he
And a knight, hight Achatee,
Metten with Venus that day,
Goinge in a queynt array,
As she had ben an hunteresse,
With wind blowinge upon hir tresse;
How Eneas gan him to pleyne,
Whan that he knew hir, of his peyne;
And how his shippes dreynte were,
Or elles lost, he niste where;
How she gan him comforte tho,
And bad him to Cartage go,
And ther he shulde his folk finde
That in the see were left behinde.
And, shortly of this thing to pace,
She made Eneas so in grace
Of Dido, quene of that contree,
That, shortly for to tellen, she
Becam his love, and leet him do
That that wedding longeth to.
What shulde I speke more queynte,
Or peyne me my wordes peynte,
To speke of love? hit wol not be;
I can not of that facultee.
And eek to telle the manere
How they aqueynteden in-fere,
Hit were a long proces to telle,
And over long for yow to dwelle.
Ther sawgh I grave how Eneas
Tolde Dido every cas,
That him was tid upon the see.
And after grave was, how shee
Made of him, shortly, at oo word,
Hir lyf, hir love, hir luste, hir lord;
And dide him al the reverence,
And leyde on him al the dispence,
That any woman mighte do,
Weninge hit had al be so,
As he hir swoor; and her-by demed
That he was good, for he swich semed.
Allas! what harm doth apparence,
Whan hit is fals in existence!
For he to hir a traitour was;
Wherfor she slow hir-self, allas!
Lo, how a woman doth amis,
To love him that unknowen is!
For, by Crist, lo! thus hit fareth;
`Hit is not al gold, that glareth.'
For, al-so brouke I wel myn heed,
Ther may be under goodliheed
Kevered many a shrewed vyce;
Therfor be no wight so nyce,
To take a love only for chere,
For speche, or for frendly manere;
For this shal every woman finde
That som man, of his pure kinde,
Wol shewen outward the faireste,
Til he have caught that what him leste;
And thanne wol he causes finde,
And swere how that she is unkinde,
Or fals, or prevy, or double was.
Al this seye I by Eneas
And Dido, and hir nyce lest,
That lovede al to sone a gest;
Therfor I wol seye a proverbe,
That `he that fully knoweth therbe
May saufly leye hit to his ye';
Withoute dreed, this is no lye.
But let us speke of Eneas,
How he betrayed hir, allas!
And lefte hir ful unkindely.
So whan she saw al-utterly,
That he wolde hir of trouthe faile,
And wende fro hir to Itaile,
She gan to wringe hir hondes two.
`Allas!' quod she, `what me is wo!
Allas! is every man thus trewe,
That every yere wolde have a newe,
If hit so longe tyme dure,
Or elles three, peraventure?
As thus: of oon he wolde have fame
In magnifying of his name;
Another for frendship, seith he;
And yet ther shal the thridde be,
That shal be taken for delyt,
Lo, or for singular profyt.'
In swiche wordes gan to pleyne
Dido of hir grete peyne,
As me mette redely;
Non other auctour alegge I.
`Allas!' quod she, `my swete herte,
Have pitee on my sorwes smerte,
And slee me not! go noght away!
O woful Dido, wel away!'
Quod she to hir-selve tho.
`O Eneas! what wil ye do?
O that your love, ne your bonde,
That ye han sworn with your right honde,
Ne my cruel deeth,' quod she,
'May holde yow still heer with me!
O, haveth of my deeth pitee!
Y-wis, my dere herte, ye
Knowen ful wel that never yit,
As fer-forth as I hadde wit,
Agilte I yow in thoght ne deed.
0, have ye men swich goodliheed
In speche, and never a deel of trouthe?
Allas, that ever hadde routhe
Any woman on any man!
Now see I wel, and telle can,
We wrecched wimmen conne non art;
For certeyn, for the more part,
Thus we be served everichone.
How sore that ye men conne grone,
Anoon as we have yow receyved!
Certeinly we ben deceyved;
For, though your love laste a sesoun,
Wayte upon the conclusioun,
And eek how that ye determynen,
And for the more part diffynen.
`O, welawey that I was born!
For through yow is my name lorn,
And alle myn actes red and songe
Over al this lond, on every tonge.
O wikke Fame! for ther nis
Nothing so swift, lo, as she is!
O, sooth is, every thing is wist,
Though hit be kevered with the mist.
Eek, thogh I mighte duren ever,
That I have doon, rekever I never,
That I ne shal be seyd, allas,
Y-shamed be through Eneas,
And that I shal thus Iuged be --
`Lo, right as she hath doon, now she
Wol do eftsones, hardily;'
Thus seyth the peple prevely.' --
But that is doon, nis not to done;
Al hir compleynt ne al hir mone,
Certeyn, availeth hir not a stre.
And when she wiste sothly he
Was forth unto his shippes goon,
She in hir chambre wente anoon,
And called on hir suster Anne,
And gan hir to compleyne thanne;
And seyde, that she cause was
That she first lovede Eneas,
And thus counseilled hir therto.
But what! when this was seyd and do,
She roof hir-selve to the herte,
And deyde through the wounde smerte.
But al the maner how she deyde,
And al the wordes that she seyde,
Who-so to knowe hit hath purpos,
Reed Virgile in Eneidos
Or the Epistle of Ovyde,
What that she wroot or that she dyde;
And nere hit to long to endyte,
By god, I wolde hit here wryte.
But, welaway! the harm, the routhe,
That hath betid for swich untrouthe,
As men may ofte in bokes rede,
And al day seen hit yet in dede,
That for to thenken hit, a tene is.
Lo, Demophon, duk of Athenis,
How he forswor him ful falsly,
And trayed Phillis wikkedly,
That kinges doghter was of Trace,
And falsly gan his terme pace;
And when she wiste that he was fals,
She heng hir-self right by the hals,
For he had do hir swich untrouthe;
Lo! was not this a wo and routhe?
Eek lo! how fals and reccheles
Was to Breseida Achilles,
And Paris to Enone;
And Iason to Isiphile;
And eft Iason to Medea;
And Ercules to Dyanira;
For he left hir for Iole,
That made him cacche his deeth, parde.
How fals eek was he, Theseus;
That, as the story telleth us,
How he betrayed Adriane;
The devel be his soules bane!
For had he laughed, had he loured,
He moste have be al devoured,
If Adriane ne had y-be!
And, for she had of him pitee,
She made him fro the dethe escape,
And he made hir a ful fals Iape;
For aftir this, within a whyle
He lefte hir slepinge in an yle,
Deserte alone, right in the see,
And stal away, and leet hir be;
And took hir suster Phedra tho
With him, and gan to shippe go.
And yet he had y-sworn to here,
On al that ever he mighte swere,
That, so she saved him his lyf,
He wolde have take hir to his wyf;
For she desired nothing elles,
In certein, as the book us telles.
But to excusen Eneas
Fulliche of al his greet trespas,
The book seyth, Mercurie, sauns faile,
Bad him go into Itaile,
And leve Auffrykes regioun,
And Dido and hir faire toun.
Tho saw I grave, how to Itaile
Daun Eneas is go to saile;
And how the tempest al began,
And how he loste his steresman,
Which that the stere, or he took keep,
Smot over-bord, lo! as he sleep.
And also saw I how Sibyle
And Eneas, besyde an yle,
To helle wente, for to see
His fader, Anchises the free.
How he ther fond Palinurus,
And Dido, and eek Deiphebus;
And every tourment eek in helle
Saw he, which is long to telle.
Which who-so willeth for to knowe,
He most rede many a rowe
On Virgile or on Claudian,
Or Daunte, that hit telle can.
Tho saw I grave al tharivaile
That Eneas had in Itaile;
And with King Latine his tretee,
And alle the batailles that he
Was at him-self, and eek his knightes,
Or he had al y-wonne his rightes;
And how he Turnus refte his lyf,
And wan Lavyna to his wyf;
And al the mervelous signals
Of the goddes celestials;
How, maugre Iuno, Eneas,
For al hir sleighte and hir compas,
Acheved al his aventure;
For Iupiter took of him cure
At the prayere of Venus;
The whiche I preye alwey save us,
And us ay of our sorwes lighte!
Whan I had seyen al this sighte
In this noble temple thus,
`A, Lord!' thoughte I, `that madest us,
Yet saw I never swich noblesse
Of images, ne swich richesse,
As I saw graven in this chirche;
But not woot I who dide hem wirche,
Ne wher I am, ne in what contree.
But now wol I go out and see,
Right at the wiket, if I can
See o-wher stering any man,
That may me telle wher I am.'
When I out at the dores cam,
I faste aboute me beheld.
Then saw I but a large feld,
As fer as that I mighte see,
Withouten toun, or hous, or tree,
Or bush, or gras, or ered lond;
For al the feld nas but of sond
As smal as man may see yet lye
In the desert of Libye;
Ne I to maner creature,
That is y-formed by nature,
Ne saw, me for to rede or wisse.
`O Crist,' thoughte I, `that art in blisse,
Fro fantom and illusioun
Me save!' and with devocioun
Myn yen to the heven I caste.
Tho was I war, lo! at the laste,
That faste be the sonne, as hye
As kenne mighte I with myn ye,
Me thoughte I saw an egle sore,
But that hit semed moche more
Then I had any egle seyn.
But this as sooth as deeth, certeyn,
Hit was of golde, and shoon so bright,
That never saw men such a sighte,
But-if the heven hadde y-wonne
Al newe of golde another sonne;
So shoon the egles fethres brighte,
And somwhat dounward gan hit lighte.
Explicit liber primus.
Book II   Incipit liber secundus.
Proem.
Now herkneth, every maner man
That English understonde can,
And listeth of my dreem to lere;
For now at erste shul ye here
So selly an avisioun,
That Isaye, ne Scipioun,
Ne King Nabugodonosor,
Pharo, Turnus, ne Elcanor,
Ne mette swich a dreem as this!
Now faire blisfull, O Cipris,
So be my favour at this tyme!
And ye, me to endyte and ryme
Helpeth, that on Parnaso dwelle
By Elicon the clere welle.
O Thought, that wroot al that I mette,
And in the tresorie hit shette
Of my brayn! now shal men see
If any vertu in thee be,
To tellen al my dreem aright;
Now kythe thyn engyne and might!
The Dream.
This egle, of which I have yow told,
That shoon with fethres as of gold,
Which that so hye gan to sore,
I gan beholde more and more,
To see hir the beautee and the wonder;
But never was ther dint of thonder,
Ne that thing that men calle foudre,
That smoot somtyme a tour to poudre,
And in his swifte coming brende,
That so swythe gan descende,
As this foul, whan hit behelde
That I a-roume was in the felde;
And with his grimme pawes stronge,
Within his sharpe nayles longe,
Me, fleinge, at a swappe he hente,
And with his sours agayn up wente,
Me caryinge in his clawes starke
As lightly as I were a larke,
How high I can not telle yow,
For I cam up, I niste how.
For so astonied and a-sweved
Was every vertu in my heved,
What with his sours and with my drede,
That al my feling gan to dede;
For-why hit was to greet affray.
Thus I longe in his clawes lay,
Til at the laste he to me spak
In mannes vois, and seyde, `Awak!
And be not so a-gast, for shame!'
And called me tho by my name,
And, for I sholde the bet abreyde --
Me mette -- `Awak,' to me he seyde,
Right in the same vois and stevene
That useth oon I coude nevene;
And with that vois, soth for to sayn,
My minde cam to me agayn;
For hit was goodly seyd to me,
So nas hit never wont to be.
And herewithal I gan to stere,
And he me in his feet to bere,
Til that he felte that I had hete,
And felte eek tho myn herte bete.
And tho gan he me to disporte,
And with wordes to comforte,
And sayde twyes, `Seynte Marie!
Thou art noyous for to carie,
And nothing nedeth hit, parde!
For al-so wis god helpe me
As thou non harm shalt have of this;
And this cas, that betid thee is,
Is for thy lore and for thy prow; --
Let see! darst thou yet loke now?
Be ful assured, boldely,
I am thy frend.' And therwith I
Gan for to wondren in my minde.
`O god,' thoughte I, `that madest kinde,
Shal I non other weyes dye?
Wher Ioves wol me stellifye,
Or what thing may this signifye?
I neither am Enok, ne Elye,
Ne Romulus, ne Ganymede
That was y-bore up, as men rede,
To hevene with dan Iupiter,
And maad the goddes boteler.'
Lo! this was tho my fantasye!
But he that bar me gan espye
That I so thoghte, and seyde this: --
`Thou demest of thy-self amis;
For Ioves is not ther-aboute --
I dar wel putte thee out of doute --
To make of thee as yet a sterre.
But er I bere thee moche ferre,
I wol thee telle what I am,
And whider thou shalt, and why I cam
To done this, so that thou take
Good herte, and not for fere quake.'
`Gladly,' quod I. -- `Now wel,' quod he: --
`First I, that in my feet have thee,
Of which thou hast a feer and wonder,
Am dwellinge with the god of thonder,
Which that men callen Iupiter,
That dooth me flee ful ofte fer
To do al his comaundement.
And for this cause he hath me sent
To thee: now herke, by thy trouthe!
Certeyn, he hath of thee routhe,
That thou so longe trewely
Hast served so ententifly
His blinde nevew Cupido,
And fair Venus goddesse also,
Withoute guerdoun ever yit,
And nevertheles has set thy wit --
Although that in thy hede ful lyte is --
To make bokes, songes, dytees,
In ryme, or elles in cadence,
As thou best canst, in reverence
Of Love, and of his servants eke,
That have his servise soght, and seke;
And peynest thee to preyse his art,
Althogh thou haddest never part;
Wherfor, al-so god me blesse,
Ioves halt hit greet humblesse
And vertu eek, that thou wolt make
A-night ful ofte thyn heed to ake,
In thy studie so thou wrytest,
And ever-mo of love endytest,
In honour of him and preysinges,
And in his foIkes furtheringes,
And in hir matere al devysest,
And noght him nor his folk despysest,
Although thou mayst go in the daunce
Of hem that him list not avaunce.
`Wherfor, as I seyde, y-wis,
Iupiter considereth this,
And also, beau sir, other thinges;
That is, that thou hast no tydinges
Of Loves folk, if they be glade,
Ne of noght elles that god made;
And noght only fro fer contree
That ther no tyding comth to thee,
But of thy verray neyghebores,
That dwellen almost at thy dores,
Thou herest neither that ne this;
For whan thy labour doon al is,
And hast y-maad thy rekeninges,
In stede of reste and newe thinges,
Thou gost hoom to thy hous anoon;
And, also domb as any stoon,
Thou sittest at another boke,
Til fully daswed is thy loke,
And livest thus as an hermyte,
Although thyn abstinence is lyte.
`And therfor Ioves, through his grace,
Wol that I bere thee to a place,
Which that hight THE HOUS OF FAME,
To do thee som disport and game,
In som recompensacioun
Of labour and devocioun
That thou has had, lo! causeles,
To Cupido, the reccheles!
And thus this god, thorgh his meryte,
Wol with som maner thing thee quyte,
So that thou wolt be of good chere.
For truste wel, that thou shalt here,
When we be comen ther I seye,
Mo wonder thinges, dar I leye:
Of Loves folke mo tydinges,
Both soth-sawes and lesinges;
And mo loves newe begonne,
And longe y-served loves wonne,
And mo loves casuelly
That been betid, no man wot why,
But as a blind man stert an hare;
And more Iolytee and fare,
Whyl that they finde love of stele,
As thinketh hem, and over-al wele;
Mo discords, mo Ielousyes,
Mo murmurs, and mo novelryes,
And mo dissimulaciouns;
And feyned reparaciouns;
And mo berdes in two houres
Withoute rasour or sisoures
Y-maad, then greynes be of sondes;
And eke mo holdinge in hondes,
And also mo renovelaunces
Of olde forleten aqueyntaunces;
Mo love-dayes and acordes
Then on instruments ben cordes;
And eke of loves mo eschaunges
Than ever cornes were in graunges;
Unnethe maistow trowen this?' --
Quod he. `No, helpe me god so wis!' --
Quod I. `No? why?' quod he. `For hit
Were impossible, to my wit,
Though that Fame hadde al the pyes
In al a realme, and al the spyes,
How that yet she shulde here al this,
Or they espye hit.' `O yis, yis!'
Quod he to me, `that can I preve
By resoun, worthy for to leve,
So that thou yeve thyn advertence
To understonde my sentence.
`First shalt thou heren wher she dwelleth,
And so thyn owne book hit telleth;
Hir paleys stant, as I shal seye,
Right even in middes of the weye
Betwixen hevene, erthe, and see;
That, what-so-ever in al these three
Is spoken, in privee or aperte,
The way therto is so overte,
And stant eek in so Iuste a place,
That every soun mot to hit pace,
Or what so comth fro any tonge,
Be hit rouned, red, or songe,
Or spoke in seurtee or in drede,
Certein, hit moste thider nede.
`Now herkne wel; for-why I wille
Tellen thee a propre skile,
And worthy demonstracioun
In myn imagynacioun.
`Geffrey, thou wost right wel this,
That every kindly thing that is,
Hath a kindly stede ther he
May best in hit conserved be;
Unto which place every thing,
Through his kindly enclyning,
Moveth for to come to,
Whan that hit is awey therfro;
As thus; lo, thou mayst al day see
That any thing that hevy be,
As stoon or leed, or thing of wighte,
And ber hit never so hye on highte,
Lat goo thyn hand, hit falleth doun.
`Right so seye I by fyre or soun,
Or smoke, or other thinges lighte,
Alwey they seke upward on highte;
Whyl ech of hem is at his large,
Light thing up, and dounward charge.
`And for this cause mayst thou see,
That every river to the see
Enclyned is to go, by kinde.
And by these skilles, as I finde,
Hath fish dwellinge in floode and see,
And trees eek in erthe be.
Thus every thing, by this resoun,
Hath his propre mansioun,
To which hit seketh to repaire,
As ther hit shulde not apaire.
Lo, this sentence is knowen couthe
Of every philosophres mouthe,
As Aristotle and dan Platon,
And other clerkes many oon;
And to confirme my resoun,
Thou wost wel this, that speche is soun,
Or elles no man mighte hit here;
Now herkne what I wol thee lere.
`Soun is noght but air y-broken,
And every speche that is spoken,
Loud or privee, foul or fair,
In his substaunce is but air;
For as flaumbe is but lighted smoke,
Right so soun is air y-broke.
But this may be in many wyse,
Of which I wil thee two devise,
As soun that comth of pype or harpe.
For whan a pype is blowen sharpe,
The air is twist with violence,
And rent; lo, this is my sentence;
Eke, whan men harpe-stringes smyte,
Whether hit be moche or lyte,
Lo, with the strook the air to-breketh;
Right so hit breketh whan men speketh.
Thus wost thou wel what thing is speche.
`Now hennesforth I wol thee teche,
How every speche, or noise, or soun,
Through his multiplicacioun,
Thogh hit were pyped of a mouse,
Moot nede come to Fames House.
I preve hit thus -- tak hede now --
Be experience; for if that thou
Throwe on water now a stoon,
Wel wost thou, hit wol make anoon
A litel roundel as a cercle,
Paraventer brood as a covercle;
And right anoon thou shalt see weel,
That wheel wol cause another wheel,
And that the thridde, and so forth, brother,
Every cercle causinge other,
Wyder than himselve was;
And thus, fro roundel to compas,
Ech aboute other goinge,
Caused of othres steringe,
And multiplying ever-mo,
Til that hit be so fer ygoo
That hit at bothe brinkes be.
Al-thogh thou mowe hit not y-see,
Above, hit goth yet alway under,
Although thou thenke hit a gret wonder.
And who-so seith of trouthe I varie,
Bid him proven the contrarie.
And right thus every word, y-wis,
That loude or privee spoken is,
Moveth first an air aboute,
And of this moving, out of doute,
Another air anoon is meved,
As I have of the water preved,
That every cercle causeth other.
Right so of air, my leve brother;
Everich air in other stereth
More and more, and speche up bereth,
Or vois, or noise, or word, or soun,
Ay through multiplicacioun,
Til hit be atte House of Fame; --
Tak hit in ernest or in game.
`Now have I told, if thou have minde,
How speche or soun, of pure kinde,
Enclyned is upward to meve;
This, mayst thou fele, wel I preve.
And that the mansioun, y-wis,
That every thing enclyned to is,
Hath his kindeliche stede:
That sheweth hit, withouten drede,
That kindely the mansioun
Of every speche, of every soun,
Be hit either foul or fair,
Hath his kinde place in air.
And sin that every thing, that is
Out of his kinde place, y-wis,
Moveth thider for to go
If hit a-weye be therfro,
As I before have preved thee,
Hit seweth, every soun, pardee,
Moveth kindeIy to pace
Al up into his kindely place.
And this place of which I telle,
Ther as Fame list to dwelle,
Is set amiddes of these three,
Heven, erthe, and eek the see,
As most conservatif the soun.
Than is this the conclusioun,
That every speche of every man,
As I thee telle first began,
Moveth up on high to pace
Kindely to Fames place.
`Telle me this feithfully,
Have I not preved thus simply,
Withouten any subtiltee
Of speche, or gret prolixitee
Of termes of philosophye,
Of figures of poetrye,
Or colours of rethoryke?
Pardee, hit oghte thee to lyke;
For hard langage and hard matere
Is encombrous for to here
At ones; Wost thou not wel this?'
And I answerde, and seyde,`Yis.'
`A ha!' quod he, `lo, so I can,
Lewedly to a lewed man
Speke, and shewe him swiche skiles,
That he may shake hem by the biles,
So palpable they shulden be.
But tel me this, now pray I thee,
How thinkth thee my conclusioun?'
Quod he. `A good persuasioun,'
Quod I, `hit is; and lyk to be
Right so as thou hast preved me.'
`By god,' quod he, `and as I leve,
Thou shalt have yit, or hit be eve,
Of every word of this sentence
A preve, by experience;
And with thyn eres heren wel
Top and tail, and everydel,
That every word that spoken is
Comth into Fames Hous, y-wis,
As I have seyd; what wilt thou more?'
And with this word upper to sore
He gan, and seyde, `Be Seynt Iame!
Now wil we speken al of game.' --
`How farest thou?' quod he to me,
`Wel,' quod I. `Now see,' quod he,
`By thy trouthe, yond adoun,
Wher that thou knowest any toun,
Or hous, or any other thing.
And whan thou hast of ought knowing,
Loke that thou warne me,
And I anoon shal telle thee
How fer that thou art now therfro.'
And I adoun gan loken tho,
And beheld feldes and plaines,
And now hilles, and now mountaines,
Now valeys, and now forestes,
And now, unethes, grete bestes;
Now riveres, now citees,
Now tounes, and now grete trees,
Now shippes saillinge in the see.
But thus sone in a whyle he
Was flowen fro the grounde so hye,
That al the world, as to myn ye,
No more semed than a prikke;
Or elles was the air so thikke
That I ne mighte not discerne.
With that he spak to me as yerne,
And seyde: `Seestow any toun
Or ought thou knowest yonder doun?'
I seyde, `Nay.' `No wonder nis,'
Quod he, `for half so high as this
Nas Alexander Macedo;
Ne the king, dan Scipio.
That saw in dreme, at point devys,
Helle and erthe, and paradys;
Ne eek the wrecche Dedalus,
Ne his child, nyce Icarus,
That fleigh so highe that the hete
His winges malt, and he fel wete
In-mid the see, and ther he dreynte,
For whom was maked moch compleynte.
`Now turn upward,' quod he, `thy face,
And behold this large place,
This air; but loke thou ne be
Adrad of hem that thou shalt see;
For in this regioun, certein,
Dwelleth many a citezein,
Of which that speketh dan Plato.
These ben the eyrish bestes, lo!'
And so saw I al that meynee
Bothe goon and also flee.
`Now,' quod he tho, `cast up thyn ye;
See yonder, lo, the Galaxye,
Which men clepeth the Milky Wey,
For hit is whyt: and somme, parfey,
Callen hit Watlinge Strete:
That ones was y-brent with hete,
Whan the sonnes sone, the rede,
That highte Pheton, wolde lede
Algate his fader cart, and gye.
The cart-hors gonne wel espye
That he ne coude no governaunce,
And gonne for to lepe and launce,
And beren him now up, now doun,
Til that he saw the Scorpioun,
Which that in heven a signe is yit,
And he, for ferde, loste his wit,
Of that, and leet the reynes goon
Of his hors; and they anoon
Gonne up to mounte, and doun descende
Til bothe the eyr and erthe brende;
Til Iupiter, lo, atte laste,
Him slow, and fro the carte caste.
Lo, is it not a greet mischaunce,
To lete a fole han governaunce
Of thing that he can not demeine?'
And with this word, soth for to seyne,
He gan alway upper to sore,
And gladded me ay more and more,
So feithfully to me spak he.
Tho gan I loken under me,
And beheld the eyrish bestes,
Cloudes, mistes, and tempestes,
Snowes, hailes, reines, windes,
And thengendring in hir kindes,
And al the wey through whiche I cam;
`O god,' quod I, `that made Adam,
Moche is thy might and thy noblesse!'
And tho thoughte I upon Boece,
That writ, `a thought may flee so hye,
With fetheres of Philosophye,
To passen everich element;
And whan he hath so fer y-went,
Than may be seen, behind his bak,
Cloud, and al that I of spak.'
Tho gan I wexen in a were,
And seyde, `I woot wel I am here;
But wher in body or in gost
I noot, y-wis; but god, thou wost!'
For more cleer entendement
Nadde he me never yit y-sent.
And than thoughte I on Marcian,
And eek on Anleclaudian,
That sooth was hir descripcioun
Of al the hevenes regioun,
As fer as that I saw the preve;
Therfor I can hem now beleve.
With that this egle gan to crye:
`Lat be,' quod he, `thy fantasye;
Wilt thou lere of sterres aught?'
`Nay, certeinly,' quod I, `right naught;
`And why? for I am now to old.'
`Elles I wolde thee have told,'
Quod he, `the sterres names, lo,
And al the hevenes signes to,
And which they been.' `No fors,' quod I.
`Yis, pardee,' quod he; `wostow why?
For when thou redest poetrye,
How goddes gonne stellifye
Brid, fish, beste, or him or here,
As the Raven, or either Bere,
Or Ariones harpe fyn,
Castor, Pollux, or Delphyn,
Or Atlantes doughtres sevene,
How alle these arn set in hevene;
For though thou have hem ofte on honde,
Yet nostow not wher that they stonde.'
`No fors,' quod I, `hit is no nede;
I leve as wel, so god me spede,
Hem that wryte of this matere,
As though I knew hir places here;
And eek they shynen here so brighte,
Hit shulde shenden al my sighte
To loke on hem.' `That may wel be,'
Quod he. And so forth bar he me
A whyl, and than he gan to crye,
That never herde I thing so hye,
`Now up the heed; for al is wel;
Seynt Iulyan, lo, bon hostel!
See here the Hous of Fame, lo!
Maistow not heren that I do?'
`What?' quod I. `The grete soun,'
Quod he, `that rumbleth up and doun
In Fames Hous, full of tydinges,
Bothe of fair speche and chydinges,
And of fals and soth compouned.
Herke wel; hit is not rouned.
Herestow not the grete swogh?'
`Yis, pardee,' quod I, `wel y-nogh.'
`And what soun is it lyk?' quod he.
`Peter! lyk beting of the see,'
Quod I, `again the roches holowe,
Whan tempest doth the shippes swalowe;
And lat a man stonde, out of doute,
A myle thens, and here hit route;
Or elles lyk the last humblinge
After the clappe of oo thundringe,
Whan Ioves hath the aire y-bete;
But hit doth me for fere swete.'
`Nay, dred thee not thereof,' quod he,
`Hit is nothing wil byten thee;
Thou shalt non harme have, trewely.'
And with this word bothe he and I
As nigh the place arryved were
As men may casten with a spere.
I niste how, but in a strete
He sette me faire on my fete,
And seyde, `Walke forth a pas,
And tak thyn aventure or cas,
That thou shalt finde in Fames place.'
`Now,' quod I, `whyl we han space
To speke, or that I go fro thee,
For the love of god, tel me,
In sooth, that wil I of thee lere,
If this noise that I here
Be as I have herd thee tellen,
Of folk that doun in erthe dwellen,
And cometh here in the same wyse
As I thee herde or this devyse;
And that ther lyves body nis
In al that hous that yonder is,
That maketh al this loude fare?'
`No,' quod he, `by Seynte Clare,
And also wis god rede me!
But o thinge I wil warne thee
Of the which thou wolt have wonder.
Lo, to the House of Fame yonder
Thou wost how cometh every speche,
Hit nedeth noght thee eft to teche.
But understond now right wel this;
Whan any speche y-comen is
Up to the paleys, anon-right
Hit wexeth lyk the same wight,
Which that the word in erthe spak,
Be hit clothed red or blak;
And hath so verray his lyknesse
That spak the word, that thou wilt gesse
That hit the same body be,
Man or woman, he or she,
And is not this a wonder thing?'
`Yis,' quod I tho, `by hevene king!'
And with this worde, `Farwel,' quod he,
`And here I wol abyden thee;
And god of hevene sende thee grace,
Som good to lernen in this place,'
And I of him took leve anoon,
And gan forth to the paleys goon.
Explicit liber secundus.
Book III  Incipit liber tercius.
Invocation.
O god of science and of light,
Apollo, through thy grete might,
This litel laste book thou gye!
Nat that I wilne, for maistrye,
Here art poetical be shewed;
But, for the rym is light and lewed,
Yit make hit sumwhat agreable,
Though som vers faile in a sillable;
And that I do no diligence
To shewe craft, but o sentence.
And if, divyne vertu, thou
Wilt helpe me to shewe now
That in myn hede y-marked is --
Lo, that is for to menen this,
The Hous of Fame for to descryve --
Thou shalt see me go, as blyve,
Unto the nexte laure I see,
And kisse hit, for hit is thy tree;
Now entreth in my brest anoon!
The Dream.
Whan I was fro this egle goon,
I gan beholde upon this place.
And certein, or I ferther pace,
I wol yow al the shap devyse
Of hous and site; and al the wyse
How I gan to this place aproche
That stood upon so high a roche,
Hyer stant ther noon in Spaine.
But up I clomb with alle paine,
And though to climbe hit greved me,
Yit I ententif was to see,
And for to pouren wonder lowe,
If I coude any weyes knowe
What maner stoon this roche was;
For hit was lyk a thing of glas,
But that hit shoon ful more clere;
But of what congeled matere
Hit was, I niste redely.
But at the laste espyed I,
And found that hit was, every deel,
A roche of yse, and not of steel.
Thoughte I, `By Seynt Thomas of Kent!
This were a feble foundement
To bilden on a place hye;
He ought him litel glorifye
That her-on bilt, god so me save!'
Tho saw I al the half y-grave
With famous folkes names fele,
That had y-been in mochel wele,
And hir fames wyde y-blowe.
But wel unethes coude I knowe
Any lettres for to rede
Hir names by; for, out of drede,
They were almost of-thowed so,
That of the lettres oon or two
Was molte away of every name,
So unfamous was wexe hir fame;
But men seyn, `What may ever laste?'
Tho gan I in myn herte caste,
That they were molte awey with hete,
And not awey with stormes bete.
For on that other syde I sey
Of this hille, that northward lay,
How hit was writen ful of names
Of folk that hadden grete fames
Of olde tyme, and yit they were
As fresshe as men had writen hem there
The selve day right, or that houre
That I upon hem gan to poure.
But wel I wiste what hit made;
Hit was conserved with the shade --
Al this wrytinge that I sy --
Of a castel, that stood on hy,
And stood eek on so cold a place,
That hete mighte hit not deface.
Tho gan I up the hille to goon,
And fond upon the coppe a woon,
That alle the men that ben on lyve
Ne han the cunning to descryve
The beautee of that ilke place,
Ne coude casten no compace
Swich another for to make,
That mighte of beautee be his make
Ne be so wonderliche y-wrought;
That hit astonieth yit my thought,
And maketh al my wit to swinke
On this castel to bethinke.
So that the grete craft, beautee,
The cast, and curiositee
Ne can I not to yow devyse,
My wit ne may me not suffyse.
But natheles al the substance
I have yit in my remembrance;
For-why me thoughte, by Seynt Gyle!
Al was of stone of beryle,
Bothe castel and the tour,
And eek the halle, and every bour,
Withouten peces or Ioininges,
But many subtil compassinges,
Babewinnes and pinacles,
Imageries and tabernacles,
I saw; and ful eek of windowes,
As flakes falle in grete snowes.
And eek in ech of the pinacles
Weren sondry habitacles,
In whiche stoden, al withoute --
Ful the castel, al aboute --
Of alle maner of minstrales,
And gestiours, that tellen tales
Bothe of weping and of game,
Of al that longeth unto Fame.
Ther herde I pleyen on an harpe
That souned bothe wel and sharpe,
Orpheus ful craftely,
And on his syde, faste by,
Sat the harper Orion,
And Eacides Chiron,
And other harpers many oon,
And the Bret Glascurion;
And smale harpers with her glees
Saten under hem in sees,
And gunne on hem upward to gape,
And countrefete hem as an ape,
Or as craft countrefeteth kinde.
Tho saugh I stonden hem behinde,
A-fer fro hem, al by hemselve,
Many thousand tymes twelve,
That maden loude menstralcyes
In cornemuse and shalmyes,
And many other maner pype,
That craftely begunne pype
Bothe in doucet and in rede,
That ben at festes with the brede;
And many floute and lilting-horne,
And pypes made of grene corne,
As han thise litel herde-gromes
That kepen bestes in the bromes.
Ther saugh I than Atiteris,
And of Athenes dan Pseustis,
And Marcia that lost her skin,
Bothe in face, body, and chin,
For that she wolde envyen, lo!
To pypen bet than Apollo.
Ther saugh I famous, olde and yonge,
Pypers of the Duche tonge,
To lerne love-daunces, springes,
Reyes, and these straunge thinges.
Tho saugh I in another place
Stonden in a large space,
Of hem that maken blody soun
In trumpe, beme, and clarioun;
For in fight and blood-shedinge
Is used gladly clarioninge.
Ther herde I trumpen Messenus,
Of whom that speketh Virgilius.
Ther herde I Ioab trumpe also,
Theodomas, and other mo;
And alle that used clarion
In Cataloigne and Aragon,
That in hir tyme famous were
To lerne, saugh I trumpe there.
Ther saugh I sitte in other sees,
Pleyinge upon sondry glees,
Whiche that I cannot nevene,
Mo then sterres been in hevene,
Of whiche I nil as now not ryme,
For ese of yow, and losse of tyme:
For tyme y-lost, this knowen ye,
By no way may recovered be.
Ther saugh I pleyen Iogelours,
Magiciens and tregetours,
And phitonesses, charmeresses,
Olde wicches, sorceresses,
That use exorsisaciouns,
And eek thise fumigaciouns;
And clerkes eek, which conne wel
Al this magyke naturel,
That craftely don hir ententes,
To make, in certeyn ascendentes,
Images, lo, through which magyk
To make a man ben hool or syk.
Ther saugh I thee queen Medea,
And Circes eke, and Calipsa;
Ther saugh I Hermes Ballenus,
Lymote, and eek Simon Magus.
Ther saugh I, and knew hem by name,
That by such art don men han fame.
Ther saugh I Colle tregetour
Upon a table of sicamour
Pleye an uncouthe thing to telle;
I saugh him carien a wind-melle
Under a walsh-note shale.
What shuld I make lenger tale
Of al the peple that I say,
Fro hennes in-to domesday?
Whan I had al this folk beholde,
And fond me lous, and noght y-holde,
And eft y-mused longe whyle
Upon these walles of beryle,
That shoon ful lighter than a glas,
And made wel more than hit was
To semen, every thing, y-wis,
As kinde thing of fames is;
I gan forth romen til I fond
The castel-yate on my right hond,
Which that so wel corven was
That never swich another nas;
And yit hit was by aventure
Y-wrought, as often as by cure.
Hit nedeth noght yow for to tellen,
To make yow to longe dwellen,
Of this yates florisshinges,
Ne of compasses, ne of kervinges,
Ne how they hatte in masoneries,
As, corbetz fulle of imageries.
But, lord! so fair hit was to shewe,
For hit was al with gold behewe.
But in I wente, and that anoon;
Ther mette I crying many oon, --
`A larges, larges, hold up wel!
God save the lady of this pel,
Our owne gentil lady Fame,
And hem that wilnen to have name
Of us!' Thus herde I cryen alle,
And faste comen out of halle,
And shoken nobles and sterlinges.
And somme crouned were as kinges,
With crounes wroght ful of losenges;
And many riban, and many frenges
Were on hir clothes trewely.
Tho atte laste aspyed I
That pursevauntes and heraudes,
That cryen riche folkes laudes,
Hit weren alle; and every man
Of hem, as I yow tellen can,
Had on him throwen a vesture,
Which that men clepe a cote-armure,
Enbrowded wonderliche riche,
Al-though they nere nought y-liche.
But noght nil I, so mote I thryve,
Been aboute to discryve
Al these armes that ther weren,
That they thus on her cotes beren,
For hit to me were impossible;
Men mighte make of hem a bible
Twenty foot thikke, as I trowe.
For certeyn, who-so coude y-knowe
Mighte ther alle the armes seen
Of famous folk that han y-been
In Auffrike, Europe, and Asye,
Sith first began the chevalrye,
Lo! how shulde I now telle al this?
Ne of the halle eek what nede is
To tellen yow, that every wal
Of hit, and floor, and roof and al
Was plated half a fote thikke
Of gold, and that nas no-thing wikke,
But, for to prove in alle wyse,
As fyn as ducat in Venyse,
Of whiche to lyte al in my pouche is?
And they wer set as thikke of nouchis
Fulle of the fynest stones faire,
That men rede in the Lapidaire,
As greses growen in a mede;
But hit were al to longe to rede
The names; and therfore I pace.
But in this riche lusty place,
That Fames halle called was,
Ful moche prees of folk ther nas,
Ne crouding, for to mochil prees.
But al on hye, above a dees,
Sitte in a see imperial,
That maad was of a rubee al,
Which that a carbuncle is y-called,
I saugh, perpetually y-stalled,
A feminyne creature;
That never formed by nature
Nas swich another thing y-seye.
For altherfirst, soth for to seye,
Me thoughte that she was so lyte,
That the lengthe of a cubyte
Was lenger than she semed be;
But thus sone, in a whyle, she
Hir tho so wonderliche streighte,
That with hir feet she therthe reighte,
And with hir heed she touched hevene,
Ther as shynen sterres sevene.
And ther-to eek, as to my wit,
I saugh a gretter wonder yit
Upon hir eyen to beholde;
But certeyn I hem never tolde;
For as fele eyen hadde she
As fetheres upon foules be,
Or weren on the bestes foure
That goddes trone gunne honoure,
As Iohn writ in th'Apocalips.
Hir heer, that oundy was and crips,
As burned gold hit shoon to see.
And sooth to tellen, also she
Had also fele up-stonding eres
And tonges, as on bestes heres;
And on hir feet wexen saugh I
Partriches winges redely.
But, lord! the perrie and the richesse
I saugh sitting on this goddesse!
And, lord! the hevenish melodye
Of songes, ful of armonye,
I herde aboute her trone y-songe,
That al the paleys-walles ronge!
So song the mighty Muse, she
That cleped is Caliopee,
And hir eighte sustren eke,
That in hir face semen meke;
And evermo, eternally,
They songe of Fame, as tho herde I: --
`Heried be thou and thy name,
Goddesse of renoun and of fame!'
Tho was I war, lo, atte laste,
As I myn eyen gan up caste,
That this ilke noble quene
On hir shuldres gan sustene
Bothe tharmes and the name
Of tho that hadde large fame;
Alexander, and Hercules
That with a sherte his lyf lees!
Thus fond I sitting this goddesse,
In nobley, honour, and richesse;
Of which I stinte a whyle now,
Other thing to tellen yow.
Tho saugh I stonde on either syde,
Streight doun to the dores wyde,
Fro the dees, many a pileer
Of metal, that shoon not ful cleer;
But though they nere of no richesse,
Yet they were maad for greet noblesse,
And in hem greet and hy sentence,
And folk of digne reverence,
Of whiche I wol yow telle fonde,
Upon the piler saugh I stonde.
Alderfirst, lo, ther I sigh,
Upon a piler stonde on high,
That was of lede and yren fyn,
Him of secte Saturnyn,
The Ebrayk Iosephus, the olde,
That of Iewes gestes tolde;
And bar upon his shuldres hye
The fame up of the Iewerye.
And by him stoden other sevene,
Wyse and worthy for to nevene,
To helpen him bere up the charge,
Hit was so hevy and so large.
And for they writen of batailes,
As wel as other olde mervailes,
Therfor was, lo, this pileer,
Of which that I yow telle heer,
Of lede and yren bothe, y-wis,
For yren Martes metal is,
Which that god is of bataille;
And the leed, withouten faille,
Is, lo, the metal of Saturne,
That hath ful large wheel to turne.
Tho stoden forth, on every rowe,
Of hem which that I coude knowe,
Thogh I hem noght be ordre telle,
To make yow to long to dwelle.
These, of whiche I ginne rede,
Ther saugh I stonden, out of drede:
Upon an yren piler strong,
That peynted was, al endelonge,
With tygres blode in every place,
The Tholosan that highte Stace,
That bar of Thebes up the fame
Upon his shuldres, and the name
Also of cruel Achilles.
And by him stood, withouten lees,
Ful wonder hye on a pileer
Of yren, he, the gret Omeer;
And with him Dares and Tytus
Before, and eek he Lollius,
And Guido eek de Columpnis,
And English Gaufride eek, y-wis;
And ech of these, as have I Ioye,
Was besy for to bere up Troye.
So hevy ther-of was the fame,
That for to bere hit was no game.
But yit I gan ful wel espye,
Betwix hem was a litil envye.
Oon seyde, Omere made lyes,
Feyninge in his poetryes,
And was to Grekes favorable;
Therfor held he hit but fable.
Tho saugh I stonde on a pileer,
That was of tinned yren cleer,
That Latin poete, dan Virgyle,
That bore hath up a longe whyle
The fame of Pius Eneas.
And next him on a piler was,
Of coper, Venus clerk, Ovyde,
That hath y-sowen wonder wyde
The grete god of Loves name.
And ther he bar up wel his fame,
Upon his piler, also hye
As I might see hit with myn ye:
For-why this halle, of whiche I rede
Was woxe on highte, lengthe and brede,
Wel more, by a thousand del,
Than hit was erst, that saugh I wel.
Tho saugh I, on a piler by,
Of yren wroght ful sternely,
The grete poete, daun Lucan,
And on his shuldres bar up than,
As highe as that I mighte see,
The fame of Iulius and Pompee.
And by him stoden alle these clerkes,
That writen of Romes mighty werkes,
That, if I wolde hir names telle,
Al to longe most I dwelle.
And next him on a piler stood
Of soulfre, lyk as he were wood,
Dan Claudian, the soth to telle,
That bar up al the fame of helle,
Of Pluto, and of Proserpyne,
That quene is of the derke pyne.
What shulde I more telle of this?
The halle was al ful, y-wis,
Of hem that writen olde gestes,
As ben on trees rokes nestes;
But hit a ful confus matere
Were al the gestes for to here,
That they of write, and how they highte.
But whyl that I beheld this sighte,
I herde a noise aprochen blyve,
That ferde as been don in an hyve,
Agen her tyme of out-fleyinge;
Right swiche a maner murmuringe,
For al the world, hit semed me.
Tho gan I loke aboute and see,
That ther come entring in the halle
A right gret company with-alle,
And that of sondry regiouns,
Of alleskinnes condiciouns,
That dwelle in erthe under the mone,
Pore and ryche. And also sone
As they were come into the halle,
They gonne doun on knees falle
Before this ilke noble quene,
And seyde, `Graunte us, lady shene,
Ech of us, of thy grace, a bone!'
And somme of hem she graunted sone,
And somme she werned wel and faire;
And somme she graunted the contraire
Of hir axing utterly,
But thus I seye yow trewely,
What hir cause was, I niste.
For of this folk, ful wel I wiste,
They hadde good fame ech deserved,
Althogh they were diversly served;
Right as hir suster, dame Fortune,
Is wont to serven in comune.
Now herkne how she gan to paye
That gonne hir of hir grace praye;
And yit, lo, al this companye
Seyden sooth, and noght a lye.
`Madame,' seyden they, `we be
Folk that heer besechen thee,
That thou graunte us now good fame,
And let our werkes han that name;
In ful recompensacioun
Of good werk, give us good renoun.'
`I werne yow hit,' quod she anoon,
`Ye gete of me good fame noon,
By god! and therfor go your wey.'
`Alas,' quod they, `and welaway!
Telle us, what may your cause be?'
`For me list hit noght,' quod she;
`No wight shal speke of yow, y-wis,
Good ne harm, ne that ne this.'
And with that word she gan to calle
Hir messanger, that was in halle,
And bad that he shulde faste goon,
Up peyne to be blind anoon,
For Eolus, the god of winde; --
`In Trace ther ye shul him finde,
And bid him bringe his clarioun,
That is ful dyvers of his soun,
And hit is cleped Clere Laude,
With which he wont is to heraude
Hem that me list y-preised be:
And also bid him how that he
Bringe his other clarioun,
That highte Sclaundre in every toun,
With which he wont is to diffame
Hem that me list, and do hem shame.'
This messanger gan faste goon,
And found wher, in a cave of stoon,
In a contree that highte Trace,
This Eolus, with harde grace,
Held the windes in distresse,
And gan hem under him to presse,
That they gonne as beres rore,
He bond and pressed hem so sore.
This messanger gan faste crye,
`Rys up,' quod he, `and faste hye,
Til that thou at my lady be;
And tak thy clarions eek with thee,
And speed the forth.' And he anon
Took to a man, that hight Triton,
His clariouns to bere tho,
And leet a certeyn wind to go,
That blew so hidously and hye,
That hit ne lefte not a skye
In al the welken longe an brood.
This Eolus no-wher abood
Til he was come at Fames feet,
And eek the man that Triton heet;
And ther he stood, as still as stoon.
And her-withal ther com anoon
Another huge companye
Of gode folk, and gunne crye,
`Lady, graunte us now good fame,
And lat our werkes han that name
Now, in honour of gentilesse,
And also god your soule blesse!
For we han wel deserved hit,
Therfore is right that we ben quit.'
`As thryve I,' quod she, `ye shal faile,
Good werkes shal yow noght availe
To have of me good fame as now.
But wite ye what? Y graunte yow,
That ye shal have a shrewed fame
And wikked loos, and worse name,
Though ye good loos have wel deserved.
Now go your wey, for ye be served;
And thou, dan Eolus, let see!
Tak forth thy trumpe anon,' quod she,
`That is y-cleped Sclaunder light,
And blow her loos, that every wight
Speke of hem harm and shrewednesse,
In stede of good and worthinesse.
For thou shalt trumpe al the contraire
Of that they han don wel or faire.'
`Alas,' thoughte I, `what aventures
Han these sory creatures!
For they, amonges al the pres,
Shul thus be shamed, gilteles!
But what! hit moste nedes be.'
What did this Eolus, but he
Tok out his blakke trumpe of bras,
That fouler than the devil was,
And gan this trumpe for to blowe,
As al the world shulde overthrowe;
That through-out every regioun
Wente this foule trumpes soun,
As swift as pelet out of gonne,
Whan fyr is in the poudre ronne.
And swiche a smoke gan out-wende
Out of his foule trumpes ende,
Blak, blo, grenissh, swartish reed,
As doth wher that men melte leed,
Lo, al on high fro the tuel!
And therto oo thing saugh I wel,
That, the ferther that hit ran,
The gretter wexen hit began,
As doth the river from a welle,
And hit stank as the pit of helle.
Alas, thus was hir shame y-ronge,
And giltelees, on every tonge.
Tho com the thridde companye,
And gunne up to the dees to hye,
And doun on knees they fille anon,
And seyde, `We ben everichon
Folk that han ful trewely
Deserved fame rightfully,
And pray yow, hit mot be knowe,
Right as hit is, and forth y-blowe.'
`I graunte,' quod she, `for me list
That now your gode werk be wist;
And yet ye shul han better loos,
Right in dispyt of alle your foos,
Than worthy is; and that anoon:
Lat now,' quod she, `thy trumpe goon,
Thou Eolus, that is so blak;
And out thyn other trumpe tak
That highte Laude, and blow it so
That through the world hir fame go
Al esely, and not to faste,
That hit be knowen atte laste.'
`Ful gladly, lady myn,' he seyde;
And out his trumpe of golde he brayde
Anon, and sette hit to his mouthe,
And blew hit est, and west, and southe,
And north, as loude as any thunder,
That every wight hadde of hit wonder,
So brode hit ran, or than hit stente,
And, certes, al the breeth that wente
Out of his trumpes mouthe smelde
As men a pot-ful bawme helde
Among a basket ful of roses;
This favour dide he til hir loses.
And right with this I gan aspye,
Ther com the ferthe companye --
But certeyn they were wonder fewe --
And gonne stonden in a rewe,
And seyden, `Certes, lady brighte,
We han don wel with al our mighte;
But we ne kepen have no fame.
Hyd our werkes and our name,
For goddes love! for certes we
Han certeyn doon hit for bountee,
And for no maner other thing.'
`I graunte yow al your asking,'
Quod she; `let your werk be deed.'
With that aboute I clew myn heed,
And saugh anoon the fifte route
That to this lady gonne loute,
And doun on knes anoon to falle;
And to hir tho besoughten alle
To hyde hit gode werkes eek,
And seyde, they yeven noght a leek
For fame, ne for swich renoun;
For they, for contemplacioun
And goddes love, hadde y-wrought;
Ne of fame wolde they nought.
`What?' quod she, `and be ye wood?
And wene ye for to do good,
And for to have of that no fame?
Have ye dispyt to have my name?
Nay, ye shul liven everichoon!
Blow thy trumpe and that anoon,'
Quod she, `thou Eolus, I hote,
And ring this folkes werk by note,
That al the world may of hit here.'
And he gan blowe hir loos so clere
In his golden clarioun
That through the world wente the soun,
Also kenely, and eek so softe;
But atte laste hit was on-lofte.
Thoo com the sexte companye,
And gonne faste on Fame crye.
Right verraily, in this manere
They seyden: `Mercy, lady dere!
To telle certein, as hit is,
We han don neither that ne this,
But ydel al our lif y-be.
But, natheles, yit preye we,
That we mowe han so good a fame,
And greet renoun and knowen name,
As they that han don noble gestes,
And acheved alle hir lestes,
As wel of love as other thing;
Al was us never broche ne ring,
Ne elles nought, from wimmen sent,
Ne ones in hir herte y-ment
To make us only frendly chere,
But mighte temen us on bere;
Yit lat us to the peple seme
Swiche as the world may of us deme,
That wimmen loven us for wood.
Hit shal don us as moche good,
And to our herte as moche availe
To countrepeise ese and travaile,
As we had wonne hit with labour;
For that is dere boght honour
At regard of our grete ese.
And yit thou most us more plese
Let us be holden eek, therto,
Worthy, wyse, and gode also,
And riche, and happy unto love.
For goddes love, that sit above,
Thogh we may not the body have
Of wimmen, yet, so god yow save!
Let men glewe on us the name;
Suffyceth that we han the fame.'
`I graunte,' quod she, `by my trouthe!
Now, Eolus, with-outen slouthe.
Tak out thy trumpe of gold, let see,
And blow as they han axed me,
That every man wene hem at ese,
Though they gon in ful badde lese.'
This Eolus gan hit so blowe
That through the world hit was y-knowe.
Tho come the seventh route anoon,
And fel on knees everichoon,
And seyde, `Lady, graunte us sone
The same thing, the same bone,
That ye this nexte folk han doon.'
`Fy on yow,' quod she, `everichoon!
Ye masty swyn, ye ydel wrecches,
Ful of roten slowe tecches!
What? false theves! wher ye wolde
Be famous good, and no-thing nolde
Deserve why, ne never roughte?
Men rather yow to-hangen oughte!
For ye be lyk the sweynte cat,
That wolde have fish; but wostow what?
He wolde no-thing wete his clowes.
Yvel thrift come to your Iowes,
And eek on myn, if I hit graunte,
Or do yow favour, yow to avaunte!
Thou Eolus, thou king of Trace!
Go, blow this folk a soo grace,'
Quod she, `anoon; and wostow how?
As I shal telle thee right now;
Sey: 'These ben they that wolde honour
Have, and do noskinnes labour,
Ne do no good, and yit han laude;
And that men wende that bele Isaude
Ne coude hem noght of love-werne;
And yit she that grint at a querne
Is al to good to ese hir herte.''
This Eolus anon up sterte,
And with his blakke clarioun
He gan to blasen out a soun,
As loude as belweth wind in helle.
And eek therwith, the sooth to telle,
This soun was al so ful of Iapes,
As ever mowes were in apes.
And that wente al the world aboute,
That every wight gan on hem shoute,
And for to laughe as they were wode;
Such game fonde they in hir hode.
Tho com another companye,
That had y-doon the traiterye,
The harm, the gretest wikkednesse
That any herte couthe gesse;
And prayed hir to han good fame,
And that she nolde hem doon no shame,
But yeve hem loos and good renoun,
And do hit blowe in clarioun.
`Nay, wis!' quod she, `hit were a vyce;
Al be ther in me no Iustyce
Me listeth not to do hit now,
Ne this nil I not graunte you.'
Tho come ther lepinge in a route,
And gonne choppen al aboute
Every man upon the croune,
That al the halle gan to soune,
And seyden: `Lady, lefe and dere
We ben swich folk as ye mowe here.
To tellen al the tale aright,
We ben shrewes, every wight,
And han delyt in wikkednes,
As gode folk han in goodnes;
And Ioye to be knowen shrewes,
And fulle of vyce and wikked thewes;
Wherfor we prayen yow, a-rowe,
That our fame swich be knowe
In alle thing right as hit is.'
`I graunte hit yow,' quod she, `y-wis.
But what art thou that seyst this tale,
That werest on thy hose a pale,
And on thy tipet swiche a belle!'
`Madame,' quod he, `sooth to telle,
I am that ilke shrewe, y-wis,
That brende the temple of Isidis
In Athenes, lo, that citee.'
`And wherfor didest thou so?' quod she.
`By my thrift,' quod he, `madame,
I wolde fayn han had a fame,
As other folk hadde in the toun,
Al-thogh they were of greet renoun
For hir vertu and for hir thewes;
Thoughte I, as greet a fame han shrewes,
Thogh hit be but for shrewednesse,
As gode folk han for goodnesse;
And sith I may not have that oon,
That other nil I noght for-goon.
And for to gette of Fames hyre,
The temple sette I al a-fyre.
Now do our loos be blowen swythe,
As wisly be thou ever blythe.'
`Gladly,' quod she; `thou Eolus,
Herestow not what they prayen us?'
`Madame, yis, ful wel,' quod he,
And I wil trumpen hit, parde!'
And tok his blakke trumpe faste,
And gan to puffen and to blaste,
Til hit was at the worldes ende.
With that I gan aboute wende;
For oon that stood right at my bak,
Me thoughte goodly to me spak,
And seyde, `Frend, what is thy name?
Artow come hider to han fame?'
`Nay, for-sothe, frend!' quod I;
I cam noght hider, graunt mercy!
For no swich cause, by my heed!
Suffyceth me, as I were deed,
That no wight have my name in honde.
I woot my-self best how I stonde;
For what I drye or what I thinke,
I wol my-selven al hit drinke,
Certeyn, for the more part,
As ferforth as I can myn art.'
`But what dost thou here than?' quod he.
Quod I, `that wol I tellen thee,
The cause why I stonde here: --
Som newe tydings for to lere: --
Som newe thinges, I not what,
Tydinges, other this or that,
Of love, or swiche thinges glade.
For certeynly, he that me made
To comen hider seyde me,
I shulde bothe here and see,
In this place, wonder thinges;
But these be no swiche tydinges
As I mene of.' `No?' quod he,
And I answerde, `No, pardee!
For wel I wiste, ever yit,
Sith that first I hadde wit,
That som folk han desyred fame
Dyversly, and loos, and name;
But certeynly, I niste how
Ne wher that Fame dwelte, er now;
Ne eek of hir descripcioun,
Ne also hir condicioun,
Ne the ordre of hir dome,
Unto the tyme I hider come.'
`Whiche be, lo, these tydinges,
That thou now thus hider bringes,
That thou hast herd?' quod he to me;
`But now, no fors; for wel I see
What thou desyrest for to here.
Com forth, and stond no longer here,
And I wol thee, with-outen drede,
In swich another place lede,
Ther thou shalt here many oon,'
Tho gan I forth with him to goon
Out of the castel, soth to seye.
Tho saugh I stonde in a valeye,
Under the castel, faste by,
An hous, that Domus Dedali,
That Laborintus cleped is,
Nas maad so wonderliche, y-wis,
Ne half so queynteliche y-wrought.
And evermo, so swift as thought,
This queynt hous aboute wente,
That never-mo hit stike stente.
And ther-out com so greet a noise,
That, had hit stonden upon Oise,
Men mighte hit han herd esely
To Rome, I trowe sikerly.
And the noyse which that I herde,
For al the world right so hit ferde,
As doth the routing of the stoon
That from thengyn is leten goon.
And al this hous, of whiche I rede,
Was made of twigges, falwe, rede,
And grene eek, and som weren whyte,
Swiche as men to these cages thwyte,
Or maken of these paniers,
Or elles hottes or dossers;
That, for the swough and for the twigges,
This hous was also ful of gigges,
And also ful eek a chirkinges,
And of many other werkinges;
And eek this hous hath of entrees
As fele as of leves been on trees
In somer, whan they grene been;
And on the roof men may yit seen
A thousand holes, and wel mo,
To leten wel the soun out go.
And by day, in every tyde,
Ben al the dores open wyde,
And by night, echoon unshette;
Ne porter ther is non to lette
No maner tydings in to pace;
Ne never reste is in that place,
That hit nis fild ful of tydinges,
Other loude, or of whispringes;
And, over alle the houses angles,
Is ful of rouninges and of Iangles
Of werre, of pees, of mariages,
Of reste, of labour, of viages,
Of abood, of deeth, of lyfe,
Of love, of hate, acorde, of stryfe,
Of loos, of lore, and of winninges,
Of hele, of sekenesse, of bildinges,
Of faire windes, of tempestes,
Of qualme of folk, and eek of bestes;
Of dyvers transmutaciouns
Of estats, and eek of regiouns;
Of trust, of drede, of Ielousye,
Of wit, of winninge, of folye;
Of plentee, and of greet famyne,
Of chepe, of derth, and of ruyne;
Of good or mis governement,
Of fyr, of dyvers accident.
And lo, this hous, of whiche I wryte,
Siker be ye, hit nas not lyte;
For hit was sixty myle of lengthe;
Al was the timber of no strengthe,
Yet hit is founded to endure
Whyl that hit list to Aventure,
That is the moder of tydinges,
As the see of welles and springes, --
And hit was shapen lyk a cage.
`Certes,' quod I, `in al myn age,
Ne saugh I swich a hous as this.'
And as I wondred me, y-wis,
Upon this hous, tho war was I
How that myn egle, faste by,
Was perched hye upon a stoon;
And I gan streighte to him goon,
And seyde thus: `I preye thee
That thou a whyl abyde me
For goddes love, and let me seen
What wondres in this place been;
For yit, paraventure, I may lere
Som good ther-on, or sumwhat here
That leef me were, or that I wente.'
`Peter! that is myn entente,'
Quod he to me; `therfor I dwelle;
But certein, oon thing I thee telle,
That, but I bringe thee ther-inne,
Ne shalt thou never cunne ginne
To come in-to hit, out of doute,
So faste hit whirleth, lo, aboute.
But sith that Ioves, of his grace,
As I have seyd, wol thee solace
Fynally with swiche thinges,
Uncouthe sightes and tydinges,
To passe with thyn hevinesse;
Suche routhe hath he of thy distresse,
That thou suffrest debonairly --
And wost thy-selven utterly
Disesperat of alle blis,
Sith that Fortune hath maad a-mis
The fruit of al thyn hertes reste
Languisshe and eek in point to breste --
That he, through his mighty meryte,
Wol do thee ese, al be hit lyte,
And yaf expres commaundement,
To whiche I am obedient,
To furthre thee with al my might,
And wisse and teche thee aright
Wher thou maist most tydinges here;
Shaltow anoon heer many oon lere.'
With this worde he, right anoon,
Hente me up bitwene his toon,
And at a windowe in me broghte,
That in this hous was, as me thoghte --
And ther-withal, me thoughte hit stente,
And no-thing hit aboute wente --
And me sette in the flore adoun.
But which a congregacioun
Of folk, as I saugh rome aboute
Some within and some withoute,
Nas never seen, ne shal ben eft;
That, certes, in the world nis left
So many formed by Nature,
Ne deed so many a creature;
That wel unnethe, in that place,
Hadde I oon foot-brede of space;
And every wight that I saugh there
Rouned ech in others ere
A newe tyding prevely,
Or elles tolde al openly
Right thus, and seyde: `Nost not thou
That is betid, lo, late or now?'
`No,' quod the other, `tel me what;' --
And than he tolde him this and that,
And swoor ther-to that hit was sooth --
`Thus hath he seyd,'-- and `Thus he dooth' --
`Thus shal hit be,' -- `Thus herde I seye' --
`That shal he found' -- `That dar I leye:' --
That al the folk that is a-lyve
Ne han the cunning to discryve
The thinges that I herde there,
What aloude, and what in ere.
But al the wonder-most was this: --
Whan oon had herd a thing, y-wis,
He com forth to another wight,
And gan him tellen, anoon-right,
The same that to him was told,
Or hit a furlong-way was old,
But gan somwhat for to eche
To this tyding in this speche
More than hit ever was.
And nat so sone departed nas
That he fro him, that he ne mette
With the thridde; and, or he lette
Any stounde, he tolde him als;
Were the tyding sooth or fals,
Yit wolde he telle hit nathelees,
And evermo with more encrees
Than hit was erst. Thus north and southe
Went every word fro mouth to mouthe,
And that encresing ever-mo,
As fyr is wont to quikke and go
From a sparke spronge amis,
Til al a citee brent up is.
And whan that was ful y-spronge,
And woxen more on every tonge
Than ever hit was, hit wente anoon
Up to a windowe, out to goon;
Or, but hit mighte out ther pace,
Hit gan out crepe at som crevace,
And fleigh forth faste for the nones.
And somtyme saugh I tho, at ones,
A lesing and a sad soth-sawe,
That gonne of aventure drawe
Out at a windowe for to pace;
And, when they metten in that place,
They were a-chekked bothe two,
And neither of hem moste out go;
For other so they gonne croude,
Til eche of hem gan cryen loude,
`Lat me go first!' -- `Nay, but let me!
And here I wol ensuren thee
With the nones that thou wolt do so,
That I shal never fro thee go,
But be thyn owne sworen brother!
We wil medle us ech with other,
That no man, be he never so wrothe,
Shal han that oon of two, but bothe
At ones, al beside his leve,
Come we a-morwe or on eve,
Be we cryed or stille y-rouned.'
Thus saugh I fals and sooth compouned
Togeder flee for oo tydinge.
Thus out at holes gonne wringe
Every tyding streight to Fame;
And she gan yeven eche his name,
After hir disposicioun,
And yaf hem eek duracioun,
Some to wexe and wane sone,
As dooth the faire, whyte mone,
And leet hem gon. Ther might I seen
Wenged wondres faste fleen,
Twenty thousand in a route,
As Eolus hem blew aboute.
And, lord! this hous, in alle tymes,
Was ful of shipmen and pilgrymes,
With scrippes bret-ful of lesinges,
Entremedled with tydinges,
And eek alone by hem-selve.
O, many a thousand tymes twelve
Saugh I eek of these pardoneres,
Currours, and eek messangeres,
With boistes crammed ful of lyes
As ever vessel was with lyes.
And as I alther-fastest wente
Aboute, and dide al myn entente
Me for to pleye and for to lere,
And eek a tyding for to here,
That I had herd of som contree
That shal not now be told for me; --
For hit no nede is, redely;
Folk can singe hit bet than I;
For al mot out, other late or rathe,
Alle the sheves in the lathe; --
I herde a gret noise withalle
In a corner of the halle,
Ther men of love tydings tolde,
And I gan thiderward beholde;
For I saugh renninge every wight,
As faste as that they hadden might;
And everich cryed, `What thing is that?'
And som seyde, `I not never what,'
And whan they were alle on an hepe,
Tho behinde gonne up lepe,
And clamben up on othere faste,
And up the nose and hye caste,
And troden faste on othere heles,
And stampe, as men don after eles.
Atte laste I saugh a man,
Which that I nevene naught ne can;
But he semed for to be
A man of greet auctoritee...
[the work is unfinished]
My wearied heart bade me farewell and left for the House of Fortune. As he reached that holy city which the soul had blessed and worshipped, he commenced wondering, for he could not find what he had always imagined would be there. The city was empty of power, money, and authority.
And my heart spoke to the daughter of Love saying, "Oh Love, where can I find Contentment? I heard that she had come here to join you."
And the daughter of Love responded, "Contentment has already gone to preach her gospel in the city, where greed and corruption are paramount; we are not in need of her."
Fortune craves not Contentment, for it is an earthly hope, and its desires are embraced by union with objects, while Contentment is naught but heartfelt.
The eternal soul is never contented; it ever seeks exaltation. Then my heart looked upon Life of Beauty and said: "Thou art all knowledge; enlighten me as to the mystery of Woman." And he answered, "Oh human heart, woman is your own reflection, and whatever you are, she is; wherever you live, she lives; she is like religion if not interpreted by the ignorant, and like a moon, if not veiled with clouds, and like a breeze, if not poisoned with impurities."
And my heart walked toward Knowledge, the daughter of Love and Beauty, and said, "Bestow upon me wisdom, that I might share it with the people." And she responded, "Say not wisdom, but rather fortune, for real fortune comes not from outside, but begins in the Holy of Holies of life. Share of thyself with the people."
Here we broached the Christmas barrel,
Pushed up the charred log-ends;
Here we sang the Christmas carol,
And called in friends.
Time has tired me since we met here
When the folk now dead were young,
And the viands were outset here
And quaint songs sung.
And the worm has bored the viol
That used to lead the tune,
Rust eaten out the dial
That struck night's noon.
Now no Christmas brings in neighbours,
And the New Year comes unlit;
Where we sang the mole now labours,
And spiders knit.
Yet at midnight if here walking,
When the moon sheets wall and tree,
I see forms of old time talking,
Who smile on me.
What smouldering senses in death's sick delay
Or seizure of malign vicissitude
Can rob this body of honour, or denude
This soul of wedding-raiment worn to-day?
For lo! even now my lady's lips did play
With these my lips such consonant interlude
As laurelled Orpheus longed for when he wooed
The half-drawn hungering face with that last lay.
I was a child beneath her touch, -- a man
When breast to breast we clung, even I and she, --
A spirit when her spirit looked through me, --
A god when all our life-breath met to fan
Our life-blood, till love's emulous ardours ran,
Fire within fire, desire in deity.
They are all gone away,
The house is shut and still,
There is nothing more to say.
Through broken walls and gray
The winds blow bleak and shrill:
They are all gone away.
Nor is there one today
To speak them good or ill:
There is nothing more to say.
Why is it then we stray
Around the sunken sill?
They are all gone away.
And our poor fancy-play
For them is wasted skill:
There is nothing more to say.
There is ruin and decay
In the House on the Hill
They are all gone away,
There is nothing more to say.
They are building a house
half a block down
and I sit up here
with the shades down
listening to the sounds,
the hammers pounding in nails,
thack thack thack thack,
and then I hear birds,
and thack thack thack,
and I go to bed,
I pull the covers to my throat;
they have been building this house
for a month, and soon it will have
its people...sleeping, eating,
loving, moving around,
but somehow
now
it is not right,
there seems a madness,
men walk on top with nails
in their mouths
and I read about Castro and Cuba,
and at night I walk by
and the ribs of the house show
and inside I can see cats walking
the way cats walk,
and then a boy rides by on a bicycle
and still the house is not done
and in the morning the men
will be back
walking around on the house
with their hammers,
and it seems people should not build houses
anymore,
it seems people should not get married
anymore,
it seems people should stop working
and sit in small rooms
on 2nd floors
under electric lights without shades;
it seems there is a lot to forget
and a lot not to do,
and in drugstores, markets, bars,
the people are tired, they do not want
to move, and I stand there at night
and look through this house and the
house does not want to be built;
through its sides I can see the purple hills
and the first lights of evening,
and it is cold
and I button my coat
and I stand there looking through the house
and the cats stop and look at me
until I am embarrased
and move North up the sidewalk
where I will buy
cigarettes and beer
and return to my room.
This poem has a door, a locked door,
and curtains drawn against the day,
but at night the lights come on, one
in each room, and the neighbors swear
they hear music and the sound of dancing.
These days the neighbors will swear
to anything, but that is not why
the house is locked up and no one goes
in or out all day long; that is because
this is a poem first and a house only
at night when everyone should be asleep.
The milkman tries to stop at dawn,
for he has three frosty white bottles
to place by the back door, but his horse
shakes his head back and forth, and so
he passes on his way. The papers pile
up on the front porch until the rain
turns them into gray earth, and they run
down the stairs and say nothing
to anyone. Whoever made this house
had no idea of beauty -- it's all gray --
and no idea of what a happy family
needs on a day in spring when tulips
shout from their brown beds in the yard.
Back there the rows are thick with weeds,
stickers, choke grass, the place has gone
to soggy mulch, and the tools are hanging
unused from their hooks in the tool room.
Think of a marriage taking place at one
in the afternoon on a Sunday in June
in the stuffy front room. The dining table
is set for twenty, and the tall glasses
filled with red wine, the silver sparkling.
But no one is going in or out, not even
a priest in his long white skirt, or a boy
in pressed shorts, or a plumber with a fat bag.
The house was quiet and the world was calm.
The reader became the book; and summer night
Was like the conscious being of the book.
The house was quiet and the world was calm.
The words were spoken as if there was no book,
Except that the reader leaned above the page,
Wanted to lean, wanted much to be
The scholar to whom his book is true, to whom
The summer night is like a perfection of thought.
The house was quiet because it had to be.
The quiet was part of the meaning, part of the mind:
The access of perfection to the page.
And the world was calm. The truth in a calm world,
In which there is no other meaning, itself
Is calm, itself is summer and night, itself
Is the reader leaning late and reading there.
Whenever I walk to Suffern along the Erie track
I go by a poor old farmhouse with its shingles broken and black.
I suppose I've passed it a hundred times, but I always stop for a minute
And look at the house, the tragic house, the house with nobody in it.
I never have seen a haunted house, but I hear there are such things;
That they hold the talk of spirits, their mirth and sorrowings.
I know this house isn't haunted, and I wish it were, I do;
For it wouldn't be so lonely if it had a ghost or two.
This house on the road to Suffern needs a dozen panes of glass,
And somebody ought to weed the walk and take a scythe to the grass.
It needs new paint and shingles, and the vines should be trimmed and tied;
But what it needs the most of all is some people living inside.
If I had a lot of money and all my debts were paid
I'd put a gang of men to work with brush and saw and spade.
I'd buy that place and fix it up the way it used to be
And I'd find some people who wanted a home and give it to them free.
Now, a new house standing empty, with staring window and door,
Looks idle, perhaps, and foolish, like a hat on its block in the store.
But there's nothing mournful about it; it cannot be sad and lone
For the lack of something within it that it has never known.
But a house that has done what a house should do,
a house that has sheltered life,
That has put its loving wooden arms around a man and his wife,
A house that has echoed a baby's laugh and held up his stumbling feet,
Is the saddest sight, when it's left alone, that ever your eyes could meet.
So whenever I go to Suffern along the Erie track
I never go by the empty house without stopping and looking back,
Yet it hurts me to look at the crumbling roof and the shutters fallen apart,
For I can't help thinking the poor old house is a house with a broken heart.
NOW first, as I shut the door,
I was alone
In the new house; and the wind
Began to moan.
Old at once was the house,
And I was old;
My ears were teased with the dread
Of what was foretold,
Nights of storm, days of mist, without end;
Sad days when the sun
Shone in vain: old griefs and griefs
Not yest begun.
All was foretold me; naught
Could I foresee;
But I learnt how the wind would sound
After these things should be
In through the porch and up the silent stair;
Little is changed, I know so well the ways;--
Here, the dead came to meet me; it was there
The dream was dreamed in unforgotten days.
But who is this that hurries on before,
A flitting shade the brooding shades among?--
She turned,--I saw her face,--O God, it wore
The face I used to wear when I was young!
I thought my spirit and my heart were tamed
To deadness; dead the pangs that agonise.
The old grief springs to choke me,--I am shamed
Before that little ghost with eager eyes.
O turn away, let her not see, not know!
How should she bear it, how should understand?
O hasten down the stairway, haste and go,
And leave her dreaming in the silent land.
Hope went by and Peace went by
And would not enter in;
Youth went by and Health wnt by
And Love that is their kin.
Those within the house shed tears
On their bitter bread;
Some were old and some were mad,
And some were sick a-bed.
Gray Death saw the wretched house
And even he passed by--
"They have never lived," he said,
"They can wait to die."
Your door is shut against my tightened face,
And I am sharp as steel with discontent;
But I possess the courage and the grace
To bear my anger proudly and unbent.
The pavement slabs burn loose beneath my feet,
A chafing savage, down the decent street;
And passion rends my vitals as I pass,
Where boldly shines your shuttered door of glass.
Oh, I must search for wisdom every hour,
Deep in my wrathful bosom sore and raw,
And find in it the superhuman power
To hold me to the letter of your law!
Oh, I must keep my heart inviolate
Against the potent poison of your hate.
911
Too little way the House must lie
From every Human Heart
That holds in undisputed Lease
A white inhabitant—
Too narrow is the Right between—
Too imminent the chance—
Each Consciousness must emigrate
And lose its neighbor once—
If you should look for this place after a handful
of lifetimes:
Perhaps of my planted forest a few
May stand yet, dark-leaved Australians or the coast
cypress, haggard
With storm-drift; but fire and the axe are devils.
Look for foundations of sea-worn granite, my fingers
had the art
To make stone love stone, you will find some remnant.
But if you should look in your idleness after ten
thousand years:
It is the granite knoll on the granite
And lava tongue in the midst of the bay, by the mouth
of the Carmel
River-valley, these four will remain
In the change of names. You will know it by the wild
sea-fragrance of wind
Though the ocean may have climbed or retired a little;
You will know it by the valley inland that our sun
and our moon were born from
Before the poles changed; and Orion in December
Evenings was strung in the throat of the valley like
a lamp-lighted bridge.
Come in the morning you will see white gulls
Weaving a dance over blue water, the wane of the moon
Their dance-companion, a ghost walking
By daylight, but wider and whiter than any bird in
the world.
My ghost you needn't look for; it is probably
Here, but a dark one, deep in the granite, not
dancing on wind
With the mad wings and the day moon.
Submitted by Holt
Command the roof, great Genius, and from thence
Into this house pour down thy influence,
That through each room a golden pipe may run
Of living water by thy benizon;
Fulfil the larders, and with strength'ning bread
Be ever-more these bins replenished.
Next, like a bishop consecrate my ground,
That lucky fairies here may dance their round;
And, after that, lay down some silver pence,
The master's charge and care to recompence.
Charm then the chambers; make the beds for ease,
More than for peevish pining sicknesses;
Fix the foundation fast, and let the roof
Grow old with time, but yet keep weather-proof.
Under my house
an inchworm
measuring the joists.
Translated by Robert Hass
HOW should the world be luckier if this house,
Where passion and precision have been one
Time out of mind, became too ruinous
To breed the lidleSs eye that loves the sun?
And the sweet laughing eagle thoughts that grow
Where wings have memory of wings, and all
That comes of the best knit to the best? Although
Mean roof-trees were the sturdier for its fall.
How should their luck run high enough to reach
The gifts that govern men, and after these
To gradual Time's last gift, a written speech
Wrought of high laughter, loveliness and ease?
Within this sober Frame expect
Work of no Forrain Architect;
That unto Caves the Quarries drew,
And Forrests did to Pastures hew;
Who of his great Design in pain
Did for a Model vault his Brain,
Whose Columnes should so high be rais'd
To arch the Brows that on them gaz'd.
Why should of all things Man unrul'd
Such unproportion'd dwellings build?
The Beasts are by their Denns exprest:
And Birds contrive an equal Nest;
The low roof'd Tortoises do dwell
In cases fit of Tortoise-shell:
No Creature loves an empty space;
Their Bodies measure out their Place.
But He, superfluously spread,
Demands more room alive then dead.
And in his hollow Palace goes
Where Winds as he themselves may lose.
What need of all this Marble Crust
T'impark the wanton Mose of Dust,
That thinks by Breadth the World t'unite
Though the first Builders fail'd in Height?
But all things are composed here
Like Nature, orderly and near:
In which we the Dimensions find
Of that more sober Age and Mind,
When larger sized Men did stoop
To enter at a narrow loop;
As practising, in doors so strait,
To strain themselves through Heavens Gate.
And surely when the after Age
Shall hither come in Pilgrimage,
These sacred Places to adore,
By Vere and Fairfax trod before,
Men will dispute how their Extent
Within such dwarfish Confines went:
And some will smile at this, as well
As Romulus his Bee-like Cell.
Humility alone designs
Those short but admirable Lines,
By which, ungirt and unconstrain'd,
Things greater are in less contain'd.
Let others vainly strive t'immure
The Circle in the Quadrature!
These holy Mathematics can
In ev'ry Figure equal Man.
Yet thus the laden House does sweat,
And scarce indures the Master great:
But where he comes the swelling Hall
Stirs, and the Square grows Spherical;
More by his Magnitude distrest,
Then he is by its straitness prest:
And too officiously it slights
That in it self which him delights.
So Honour better Lowness bears,
Then That unwonted Greatness wears
Height with a certain Grace does bend,
But low Things clownishly ascend.
And yet what needs there here Excuse,
Where ev'ry Thing does answer Use?
Where neatness nothing can condemn,
Nor Pride invent what to contemn?
A Stately Frontispice Of Poor
Adorns without the open Door:
Nor less the Rooms within commends
Daily new Furniture Of Friends.
The House was built upon the Place
Only as for a Mark Of Grace;
And for an Inn to entertain
Its Lord a while, but not remain.
Him Bishops-Hill, or Denton may,
Or Bilbrough, better hold then they:
But Nature here hath been so free
As if she said leave this to me.
Art would more neatly have defac'd
What she had laid so sweetly wast;
In fragrant Gardens, shaddy Woods,
Deep Meadows, and transparent Floods.
While with slow Eyes we these survey,
And on each pleasant footstep stay,
We opportunly may relate
The progress of this Houses Fate.
A Nunnery first gave it birth.
For Virgin Buildings oft brought forth.
And all that Neighbour-Ruine shows
The Quarries whence this dwelling rose.
Near to this gloomy Cloysters Gates
There dwelt the blooming Virgin Thwates,
Fair beyond Measure, and an Heir
Which might Deformity make fair.
And oft She spent the Summer Suns
Discoursing with the Suttle Nuns.
Whence in these Words one to her weav'd,
(As 'twere by Chance) Thoughts long conceiv'd.
"Within this holy leisure we
"Live innocently as you see.
"these Walls restrain the World without,
"But hedge our Liberty about.
"These Bars inclose the wider Den
"Of those wild Creatures, called Men.
"The Cloyster outward shuts its Gates,
"And, from us, locks on them the Grates.
"Here we, in shining Armour white,
"Like Virgin Amazons do fight.
"And our chast Lamps we hourly trim,
"Lest the great Bridegroom find them dim.
"Our Orient Breaths perfumed are
"With insense of incessant Pray'r.
"And Holy-water of our Tears
"Most strangly our complexion clears.
"Not Tears of Grief; but such as those
"With which calm Pleasure overflows;
"Or Pity, when we look on you
"That live without this happy Vow.
"How should we grieve that must be seen
"Each one a Spouse, and each a Queen;
"And can in Heaven hence behold
"Our brighter Robes and Crowns of Gold?
"When we have prayed all our Beads,
"Some One the holy Legend reads;
"While all the rest with Needles paint
"The Face and Graces of the Saint.
"But what the Linnen can't receive
"They in their Lives do interweave
"This work the Saints best represents;
"That serves for Altar's Ornaments.
"But much it to our work would add
"If here your hand, your Face we had:
"By it we would our Lady touch;
"Yet thus She you resembles much.
"Some of your Features, as we sow'd,
"Through ev'ry Shrine should be bestow'd.
"And in one Beauty we would take
"Enough a thousand Saints to make.
"And (for I dare not quench the Fire
"That me does for your good inspire)
"'Twere Sacriledge a Mant t'admit
"To holy things, for Heaven fit.
"I see the Angels in a Crown
"On you the Lillies show'ring down:
"And round about you Glory breaks,
"That something more then humane speaks.
"All Beauty, when at such a height,
"Is so already consecrate.
"Fairfax I know; and long ere this
"Have mark'd the Youth, and what he is.
"But can he such a Rival seem
"For whom you Heav'n should disesteem?
"Ah, no! and 'twould more Honour prove
"He your Devoto were, then Love.
Here live beloved, and obey'd:
Each one your Sister, each your Maid.
"And, if our Rule seem strictly pend,
"The Rule it self to you shall bend.
"Our Abbess too, now far in Age,
"Doth your succession near presage.
"How soft the yoke on us would lye,
"Might such fair Hands as yours it tye!
"Your voice, the sweetest of the Quire,
"Shall draw Heav'n nearer, raise us higher.
"And your Example, if our Head,
"Will soon us to perfection lead.
"Those Virtues to us all so dear,
"Will straight grow Sanctity when here:
"And that, once sprung, increase so fast
"Till Miracles it work at last.
"Nor is our Order yet so nice,
"Delight to banish as a Vice.
"Here Pleasure Piety doth meet;
"One perfecting the other Sweet.
"So through the mortal fruit we boyl
"The Sugars uncorrupting Oyl:
"And that which perisht while we pull,
"Is thus preserved clear and full.
"For such indeed are all our Arts;
"Still handling Natures finest Parts.
"Flow'rs dress the Altars; for the Clothes,
"The Sea-born Amber we compose;
"Balms for the griv'd we draw; and pasts
"We mold, as Baits for curious tasts.
"What need is here of Man? unless
"These as sweet Sins we should confess.
"Each Night among us to your side
"Appoint a fresh and Virgin Bride;
"Whom if Our Lord at midnight find,
"Yet Neither should be left behind.
"Where you may lye as chast in Bed,
"As Pearls together billeted.
"All Night embracing Arm in Arm,
"Like Chrystal pure with Cotton warm.
"But what is this to all the store
"Of Joys you see, and may make more!
"Try but a while, if you be wise:
"The Tryal neither Costs, nor Tyes.
Now Fairfax seek her promis'd faith:
Religion that dispensed hath;
Which She hence forward does begin;
The Nuns smooth Tongue has suckt her in.
Oft, though he knew it was in vain,
Yet would he valiantly complain.
"Is this that Sanctity so great,
"An Art by which you finly'r cheat
"Hypocrite Witches, hence Avant,
"Who though in prison yet inchant!
"Death only can such Theeves make fast,
"As rob though in the Dungeon cast.
"Were there but, when this House was made,
"One Stone that a just Hand had laid,
"It must have fall'n upon her Head
"Who first Thee from thy Faith misled.
"And yet, how well soever ment,
"With them 'twould soon grow fraudulent
"For like themselves they alter all,
"And vice infects the very Wall.
"But sure those Buildings last not long,
"Founded by Folly, kept by Wrong.
"I know what Fruit their Gardens yield,
"When they it think by Night conceal'd.
"Fly from their Vices. 'Tis thy state,
"Not Thee, that they would consecrate.
"Fly from their Ruine. How I fear
"Though guiltless lest thou perish there.
What should he do? He would respect
Religion, but not Right neglect:
For first Religion taught him Right,
And dazled not but clear'd his sight.
Sometimes resolv'd his Sword he draws,
But reverenceth then the Laws:
"For Justice still that Courage led;
First from a Judge, then Souldier bred.
Small Honour would be in the Storm.
The Court him grants the lawful Form;
Which licens'd either Peace or Force,
To hinder the unjust Divorce.
Yet still the Nuns his Right debar'd,
Standing upon their holy Guard.
Ill-counsell'd Women, do you know
Whom you resist, or what you do?
Is not this he whose Offspring fierce
Shall fight through all the Universe;
And with successive Valour try
France, Poland, either Germany;
Till one, as long since prophecy'd,
His Horse through conquer'd Britain ride?
Yet, against Fate, his Spouse they kept;
And the great Race would intercept.
Some to the Breach against their Foes
Their Wooden Saints in vain oppose
Another bolder stands at push
With their old Holy-Water Brush.
While the disjointed Abbess threads
The gingling Chain-shot of her Beads.
But their lowd'st Cannon were their Lungs;
And sharpest Weapons were their Tongues.
But, waving these aside like Flyes,
Young Fairfax through the Wall does rise.
Then th' unfrequented Vault appear'd,
And superstitions vainly fear'd.
The Relicks False were set to view;
Only the Jewels there were true.
But truly bright and holy Thwaites
That weeping at the Altar waites.
But the glad Youth away her bears,
And to the Nuns bequeaths her Tears:
Who guiltily their Prize bemoan,
Like Gipsies that a Child hath stoln.
Thenceforth (as when th' Inchantment ends
The Castle vanishes or rends)
The wasting Cloister with the rest
Was in one instant dispossest.
At the demolishing, this Seat
To Fairfax fell as by Escheat.
And what both Nuns and Founders will'd
'Tis likely better thus fulfill'd,
For if the Virgin prov'd not theirs,
The Cloyster yet remained hers.
Though many a Nun there made her vow,
'Twas no Religious-House till now.
From that blest Bed the Heroe came,
Whom France and Poland yet does fame:
Who, when retired here to Peace,
His warlike Studies could not cease;
But laid these Gardens out in sport
In the just Figure of a Fort;
And with five Bastions it did fence,
As aiming one for ev'ry Sense.
When in the East the Morning Ray
Hangs out the Colours of the Day,
The Bee through these known Allies hums,
Beating the Dian with its Drumms.
Then Flow'rs their drowsie Eylids raise,
Their Silken Ensigns each displayes,
And dries its Pan yet dank with Dew,
And fills its Flask with Odours new.
These, as their Governour goes by,
In fragrant Vollyes they let fly;
And to salute their Governess
Again as great a charge they press:
None for the Virgin Nymph; for She
Seems with the Flow'rs a Flow'r to be.
And think so still! though not compare
With Breath so sweet, or Cheek so faire.
Well shot ye Fireman! Oh how sweet,
And round your equal Fires do meet;
Whose shrill report no Ear can tell,
But Ecchoes to the Eye and smell.
See how the Flow'rs, as at Parade,
Under their Colours stand displaid:
Each Regiment in order grows,
That of the Tulip Pinke and Rose.
But when the vigilant Patroul
Of Stars walks round about the Pole,
Their Leaves, that to the stalks are curl'd,
Seem to their Staves the Ensigns furl'd.
Then in some Flow'rs beloved Hut
Each Bee as Sentinel is shut;
And sleeps so too: but, if once stir'd,
She runs you through, or askes The Word.
Oh Thou, that dear and happy Isle
The Garden of the World ere while,
Thou Paradise of four Seas,
Which Heaven planted us to please,
But, to exclude the World, did guard
With watry if not flaming Sword;
What luckless Apple did we tast,
To make us Mortal, and The Wast.
Unhappy! shall we never more
That sweet Milltia restore,
When Gardens only had their Towrs,
And all the Garrisons were Flow'rs,
When Roses only Arms might bear,
And Men did rosie Garlands wear?
Tulips, in several Colours barr'd,
Were then the Switzers of our Guard.
The Gardiner had the Souldiers place,
And his more gentle Forts did trace.
The Nursery of all things green
Was then the only Magazeen.
The Winter Quarters were the Stoves,
Where he the tender Plants removes.
But War all this doth overgrow:
We Ord'nance Plant and Powder sow.
And yet their walks one on the Sod
Who, had it pleased him and God,
Might once have made our Gardens spring
Fresh as his own and flourishing.
But he preferr'd to the Cinque Ports
These five imaginary Forts:
And, in those half-dry Trenches, spann'd
Pow'r which the Ocean might command.
For he did, with his utmost Skill,
Ambition weed, but Conscience till.
Conscience, that Heaven-nursed Plant,
Which most our Earthly Gardens want.
A prickling leaf it bears, and such
As that which shrinks at ev'ry touch;
But Flow'rs eternal, and divine,
That in the Crowns of Saints do shine.
The sight does from these Bastions ply,
Th' invisible Artilery;
And at proud Cawood Castle seems
To point the Battery of its Beams.
As if it quarrell'd in the Seat
Th' Ambition of its Prelate great.
But ore the Meads below it plays,
Or innocently seems to gaze.
And now to the Abbyss I pass
Of that unfathomable Grass,
Where Men like Grashoppers appear,
But Grashoppers are Gyants there:
They, in there squeking Laugh, contemn
Us as we walk more low then them:
And, from the Precipices tall
Of the green spir's, to us do call.
To see Men through this Meadow Dive,
We wonder how they rise alive.
As, under Water, none does know
Whether he fall through it or go.
But, as the Marriners that sound,
And show upon their Lead the Ground,
They bring up Flow'rs so to be seen,
And prove they've at the Bottom been.
No Scene that turns with Engines strange
Does oftner then these Meadows change,
For when the Sun the Grass hath vext,
The tawny Mowers enter next;
Who seem like Israaliies to be,
Walking on foot through a green Sea.
To them the Grassy Deeps divide,
And crowd a Lane to either Side.
With whistling Sithe, and Elbow strong,
These Massacre the Grass along:
While one, unknowing, carves the Rail,
Whose yet unfeather'd Quils her fail.
The Edge all bloody from its Breast
He draws, and does his stroke detest;
Fearing the Flesh untimely mow'd
To him a Fate as black forebode.
But bloody Thestylis, that waites
To bring the mowing Camp their Cates,
Greedy as Kites has trust it up,
And forthwith means on it to sup:
When on another quick She lights,
And cryes, he call'd us Israelites;
But now, to make his saying true,
Rails rain for Quails, for Manna Dew.
Unhappy Birds! what does it boot
To build below the Grasses Root;
When Lowness is unsafe as Hight,
And Chance o'retakes what scapeth spight?
And now your Orphan Parents Call
Sounds your untimely Funeral.
Death-Trumpets creak in such a Note,
And 'tis the Sourdine in their Throat.
Or sooner hatch or higher build:
The Mower now commands the Field;
In whose new Traverse seemeth wrought
A Camp of Battail newly fought:
Where, as the Meads with Hay, the Plain
Lyes quilted ore with Bodies slain:
The Women that with forks it filing,
Do represent the Pillaging.
And now the careless Victors play,
Dancing the Triumphs of the Hay;
Where every Mowers wholesome Heat
Smells like an Alexanders Sweat.
Their Females fragrant as the Mead
Which they in Fairy Circles tread:
When at their Dances End they kiss,
Their new-made Hay not sweeter is.
When after this 'tis pil'd in Cocks,
Like a calm Sea it shews the Rocks:
We wondring in the River near
How Boats among them safely steer.
Or, like the Desert Memphis Sand,
Short Pyramids of Hay do stand.
And such the Roman Camps do rise
In Hills for Soldiers Obsequies.
This Scene again withdrawing brings
A new and empty Face of things;
A levell'd space, as smooth and plain,
As Clothes for Lilly strecht to stain.
The World when first created sure
Was such a Table rase and pure.
Or rather such is the Toril
Ere the Bulls enter at Madril.
For to this naked equal Flat,
Which Levellers take Pattern at,
The Villagers in common chase
Their Cattle, which it closer rase;
And what below the Sith increast
Is pincht yet nearer by the Breast.
Such, in the painted World, appear'd
Davenant with th'Universal Heard.
They seem within the polisht Grass
A landskip drawen in Looking-Glass.
And shrunk in the huge Pasture show
As spots, so shap'd, on Faces do.
Such Fleas, ere they approach the Eye,
In Multiplyiug Glasses lye.
They feed so wide, so slowly move,
As Constellatious do above.
Then, to conclude these pleasant Acts,
Denton sets ope its Cataracts;
And makes the Meadow truly be
(What it but seem'd before) a Sea.
For, jealous of its Lords long stay,
It try's t'invite him thus away.
The River in it self is drown'd,
And Isl's th' astonish Cattle round.
Let others tell the Paradox,
How Eels now bellow in the Ox;
How Horses at their Tails do kick,
Turn'd as they hang to Leeches quick;
How Boats can over Bridges sail;
And Fishes do the Stables scale.
How Salmons trespassing are found;
And Pikes are taken in the Pound.
But I, retiring from the Flood,
Take Sanctuary in the Wood;
And, while it lasts, my self imbark
In this yet green, yet growing Ark;
Where the first Carpenter might best
Fit Timber for his Keel have Prest.
And where all Creatures might have shares,
Although in Armies, not in Paires.
The double Wood of ancient Stocks
Link'd in so thick, an Union locks,
It like two Pedigrees appears,
On one hand Fairfax, th' other Veres:
Of whom though many fell in War,
Yet more to Heaven shooting are:
And, as they Natures Cradle deckt,
Will in green Age her Hearse expect.
When first the Eye this Forrest sees
It seems indeed as Wood not Trees:
As if their Neighbourhood so old
To one great Trunk them all did mold.
There the huge Bulk takes place, as ment
To thrust up a Fifth Element;
And stretches still so closely wedg'd
As if the Night within were hedg'd.
Dark all without it knits; within
It opens passable and thin;
And in as loose an order grows,
As the Corinthean Porticoes.
The Arching Boughs unite between
The Columnes of the Temple green;
And underneath the winged Quires
Echo about their tuned Fires.
The Nightingale does here make choice
To sing the Tryals of her Voice.
Low Shrubs she sits in, and adorns
With Musick high the squatted Thorns.
But highest Oakes stoop down to hear,
And listning Elders prick the Ear.
The Thorn, lest it should hurt her, draws
Within the Skin its shrunken claws.
But I have for my Musick found
A Sadder, yet more pleasing Sound:
The Stock-doves whose fair necks are grac'd
With Nuptial Rings their Ensigns chast;
Yet always, for some Cause unknown,
Sad pair unto the Elms they moan.
O why should such a Couple mourn,
That in so equal Flames do burn!
Then as I carless on the Bed
Of gelid Straw-berryes do tread,
And through the Hazles thick espy
The hatching Thrastles shining Eye,
The Heron from the Ashes top,
The eldest of its young lets drop,
As if it Stork-like did pretend
That Tribute to its Lord to send.
But most the Hewel's wonders are,
Who here has the Holt-felsters care.
He walks still upright from the Root,
Meas'ring the Timber with his Foot;
And all the way, to keep it clean,
Doth from the Bark the Wood-moths glean.
He, with his Beak, examines well
Which fit to stand and which to fell.
The good he numbers up, and hacks;
As if he mark'd them with the Ax.
But where he, tinkling with his Beak,
Does find the hollow Oak to speak,
That for his building he designs,
And through the tainted Side he mines.
Who could have thought the tallest Oak
Should fall by such a feeble Strok'!
Nor would it, had the Tree not fed
A Traitor-worm, within it bred.
(As first our Flesh corrupt within
Tempts impotent and bashful Sin.
And yet that Worm triumphs not long,
But serves to feed the Hewels young.
While the Oake seems to fall content,
Viewing the Treason's Punishment.
Thus I, easie Philosopher,
Among the Birds and Trees confer:
And little now to make me, wants
Or of the Fowles, or of the Plants.
Give me but Wings as they, and I
Streight floting on the Air shall fly:
Or turn me but, and you shall see
I was but an inverted Tree.
Already I begin to call
In their most-learned Original:
And where I Language want,my Signs
The Bird upon the Bough divines;
And more attentive there doth sit
Then if She were with Lime-twigs knit.
No Leaf does tremble in the Wind
Which I returning cannot find.
Out of these scatter'd Sibyls Leaves
Strange Prophecies my Phancy weaves:
And in one History consumes,
Like Mexique Paintings, all the Plumes.
What Rome, Greece, Palestine, ere said
I in this light Mosaick read.
Thrice happy he who, not mistook,
Hath read in Natures mystick Book.
And see how Chance's better Wit
Could with a Mask my studies hit!
The Oak-Leaves me embroyder all,
Between which Caterpillars crawl:
And Ivy, with familiar trails,
Me licks, and clasps, and curles, and hales.
Under this antick Cope I move
Like some great Prelate of the Grove,
Then, languishing with ease, I toss
On Pallets swoln of Velvet Moss;
While the Wind, cooling through the Boughs,
Flatters with Air my panting Brows.
Thanks for my Rest ye Mossy Banks,
And unto you cool Zephyr's Thanks,
Who, as my Hair, my Thoughts too shed,
And winnow from the Chaff my Head.
How safe, methinks, and strong, behind
These Trees have I incamp'd my Mind;
Where Beauty, aiming at the Heart,
Bends in some Tree its useless Dart;
And where the World no certain Shot
Can make, or me it toucheth not.
But I on it securely play,
And gaul its Horsemen all the Day.
Bind me ye Woodbines in your 'twines,
Curle me about ye gadding Vines,
And Oh so close your Circles lace,
That I may never leave this Place:
But, lest your Fetters prove too weak,
Ere I your Silken Bondage break,
Do you, O Brambles, chain me too,
And courteous Briars nail me though.
Here in the Morning tye my Chain,
Where the two Woods have made a Lane;
While, like a Guard on either side,
The Trees before their Lord divide;
This, like a long and equal Thread,
Betwixt two Labyrinths does lead.
But, where the Floods did lately drown,
There at the Ev'ning stake me down.
For now the Waves are fal'n and dry'd,
And now the Meadows fresher dy'd;
Whose Grass, with moister colour dasht,
Seems as green Silks but newly washt.
No Serpent new nor Crocodile
Remains behind our little Nile;
Unless it self you will mistake,
Among these Meads the only Snake.
See in what wanton harmless folds
It ev'ry where the Meadow holds;
And its yet muddy back doth lick,
Till as a Chrystal Mirrour slick;
Where all things gaze themselves, and doubt
If they be in it or without.
And for his shade which therein shines,
Narcissus like, the Sun too pines.
Oh what a Pleasure 'tis to hedge
My Temples here with heavy sedge;
Abandoning my lazy Side,
Stretcht as a Bank unto the Tide;
Or to suspend my sliding Foot
On the Osiers undermined Root,
And in its Branches tough to hang,
While at my Lines the Fishes twang!
But now away my Hooks, my Quills,
And Angles, idle Utensils.
The Young Maria walks to night:
Hide trifling Youth thy Pleasures slight.
'Twere shame that such judicious Eyes
Should with such Toyes a Man surprize;
She that already is the Law
Of all her Sex, her Ages Aw.
See how loose Nature, in respect
To her, it self doth recollect;
And every thing so whisht and fine,
Starts forth with to its Bonne Mine.
The Sun himself, of Her aware,
Seems to descend with greater Care,
And lest She see him go to Bed,
In blushing Clouds conceales his Head.
So when the Shadows laid asleep
From underneath these Banks do creep,
And on the River as it flows
With Eben Shuts begin to close;
The modest Halcyon comes in sight,
Flying betwixt the Day and Night;
And such an horror calm and dumb,
Admiring Nature does benum.
The viscous Air, wheres'ere She fly,
Follows and sucks her Azure dy;
The gellying Stream compacts below,
If it might fix her shadow so;
The Stupid Fishes hang, as plain
As Flies in Chrystal overt'ane,
And Men the silent Scene assist,
Charm'd with the saphir-winged Mist.
Maria such, and so doth hush
The World, and through the Ev'ning rush.
No new-born Comet such a Train
Draws through the Skie, nor Star new-slain.
For streight those giddy Rockets fail,
Which from the putrid Earth exhale,
But by her Flames, in Heaven try'd,
Nature is wholly Vitrifi'd.
'Tis She that to these Gardens gave
That wondrous Beauty which they have;
She streightness on the Woods bestows;
To Her the Meadow sweetness owes;
Nothing could make the River be
So Chrystal-pure but only She;
She yet more Pure, Sweet, Streight, and Fair,
Then Gardens, Woods, Meads, Rivers are.
Therefore what first She on them spent,
They gratefully again present.
The Meadow Carpets where to tread;
The Garden Flow'rs to Crown Her Head;
And for a Glass the limpid Brook,
Where She may all her Beautyes look;
But, since She would not have them seen,
The Wood about her draws a Skreen.
For She, to higher Beauties rais'd,
Disdains to be for lesser prais'd.
She counts her Beauty to converse
In all the Languages as hers;
Not yet in those her self imployes
But for the Wisdome, not the Noyse;
Nor yet that Wisdome would affect,
But as 'tis Heavens Dialect.
Blest Nymph! that couldst so soon prevent
Those Trains by Youth against thee meant;
Tears (watry Shot that pierce the Mind;)
And Sighs (Loves Cannon charg'd with Wind;)
True Praise (That breaks through all defence;)
And feign'd complying Innocence;
But knowing where this Ambush lay,
She scap'd the safe, but roughest Way.
This 'tis to have been from the first
In a Domestick Heaven nurst,
Under the Discipline severe
Of Fairfax, and the starry Vere;
Where not one object can come nigh
But pure, and spotless as the Eye;
And Goodness doth it self intail
On Females, if there want a Male.
Go now fond Sex that on your Face
Do all your useless Study place,
Nor once at Vice your Brows dare knit
Lest the smooth Forehead wrinkled sit
Yet your own Face shall at you grin,
Thorough the Black-bag of your Skin;
When knowledge only could have fill'd
And Virtue all those Furows till'd.
Hence She with Graces more divine
Supplies beyond her Sex the Line;
And, like a sprig of Misleto,
On the Fairfacian Oak does grow;
Whence, for some universal good,
The Priest shall cut the sacred Bud;
While her glad Parents most rejoice,
And make their Destiny their Choice.
Mean time ye Fields, Springs, Bushes, Flow'rs,
Where yet She leads her studious Hours,
(Till Fate her worthily translates,
And find a Fairfax for our Thwaites)
Employ the means you have by Her,
And in your kind your selves preferr;
That, as all Virgins She preceds,
So you all Woods, Streams, Gardens, Meads.
For you Thessalian Tempe's Seat
Shall now be scorn'd as obsolete;
Aranjeuz, as less, disdain'd;
The Bel-Retiro as constrain'd;
But name not the Idalian Grove,
For 'twas the Seat of wanton Love;
Much less the Dead's Elysian Fields,
Yet nor to them your Beauty yields.
'Tis not, what once it was, the World;
But a rude heap together hurl'd;
All negligently overthrown,
Gulfes, Deserts, Precipices, Stone.
Your lesser World contains the same.
But in more decent Order tame;
You Heaven's Center, Nature's Lap.
And Paradice's only Map.
But now the Salmon-Fishers moist
Their Leathern Boats begin to hoist;
And, like Antipodes in Shoes,
Have shod their Heads in their Canoos.
How Tortoise like, but not so slow,
These rational Amphibii go?
Let's in: for the dark Hemisphere
Does now like one of them appear.
In silent night when rest I took,
For sorrow near I did not look,
I waken'd was with thund'ring noise
And piteous shrieks of dreadful voice.
That fearful sound of 'fire' and 'fire,'
Let no man know is my Desire.
I starting up, the light did spy,
And to my God my heart did cry
To straighten me in my Distress
And not to leave me succourless.
Then coming out, behold a space
The flame consume my dwelling place.
And when I could no longer look,
I blest his grace that gave and took,
That laid my goods now in the dust.
Yea, so it was, and so 'twas just.
It was his own; it was not mine.
Far be it that I should repine,
He might of all justly bereft
But yet sufficient for us left.
When by the Ruins oft I past
My sorrowing eyes aside did cast
And here and there the places spy
Where oft I sate and long did lie.
Here stood that Trunk, and there that chest,
There lay that store I counted best,
My pleasant things in ashes lie
And them behold no more shall I.
Under the roof no guest shall sit,
Nor at thy Table eat a bit.
No pleasant talk shall 'ere be told
Nor things recounted done of old.
No Candle 'ere shall shine in Thee,
Nor bridegroom's voice ere heard shall bee.
In silence ever shalt thou lie.
Adieu, Adieu, All's Vanity.
Then straight I 'gin my heart to chide:
And did thy wealth on earth abide,
Didst fix thy hope on mouldring dust,
The arm of flesh didst make thy trust?
Raise up thy thoughts above the sky
That dunghill mists away may fly.
Thou hast a house on high erect
Fram'd by that mighty Architect,
With glory richly furnished
Stands permanent, though this be fled.
It's purchased and paid for too
By him who hath enough to do.
A price so vast as is unknown,
Yet by his gift is made thine own.
There's wealth enough; I need no more.
Farewell, my pelf; farewell, my store.
The world no longer let me love;
My hope and Treasure lies above.
Daddy went hunting.
Mamma went too.
Daddy got a deer,
but Mamma got two.
Mamma told her story
while Daddy stood by
looking like at any time
he was gonna cry.
We all thought ''He's jealous
he only got one.''
But, Daddy had a reason
he didn't shoot his gun.
The buck was at his blind.
He seen him at close range.
The path was clear and all at once
Daddy felt something strange.
He knew that she was waiting
over in her stand.
He had bagged so many deer.
Her fate was in his hands.
He tossed a stick to scare the deer.
He sat and watched it run.
He prayed she wouldn't miss her shot
(OR HER HUNTING DAYS WERE DONE!)
He sat patiently waiting
for the gunshot near her stand.
When he heard her yell ''I GOT ONE! ''
he finally unclenched his hands.
The deer was his gift to her
although she never knew,
why Daddy only got one deer
and she got two.
Far off in the bush veldt near to Marken,
where the red sand lies like sea sand,
a young hunter on a day
takes a old.303 rifle with open sights
and walks following a tracker,
that they call a guide,
past green thorn trees
with long white camel-thorns
to where a impala
is standing against a hillock
and he aims for a headshot
and I say to him: “shoot for the shoulder-blade”
but he doesn’t listen
and when the shot resounds
the antelope lowers its head
and the bullet whistles away from a rock plate
with the antelope
running away in a red brown stripe
disappearing into the bushes
and the bush veldt sun
burns without mercy down on us.
Put the saddle on the mare,
For the wet winds blow;
There's winter in the air,
And autumn all below.
For the red leaves are flying
And the red bracken dying,
And the red fox lying
Where the oziers grow.
Put the bridle on the mare,
For my blood runs chill;
And my heart, it is there,
On the heather-tufted hill,
With the gray skies o'er us,
And the long-drawn chorus
Of a running pack before us
From the find to the kill.
Then lead round the mare,
For it's time that we began,
And away with thought and care,
Save to live and be a man,
While the keen air is blowing,
And the huntsman holloing,
And the black mare going
As the black mare can.
Here's a health to every sportsman, be he stableman or lord,
If his heart be true, I care not what his pocket may afford;
And may he ever pleasantly each gallant sport pursue,
If he takes his liquor fairly, and his fences fairly, too.
He cares not for the bubbles of Fortune's fickle tide,
Who like Bendigo can battle, and like Olliver can ride.
He laughs at those who caution, at those who chide he'll frown,
As he clears a five-foot paling, or he knocks a peeler down.
The dull, cold world may blame us, boys! but what care we the while,
If coral lips will cheer us, and bright eyes on us smile?
For beauty's fond caresses can most tenderly repay
The weariness and trouble of many an anxious day.
Then fill your glass, and drain it, too, with all your heart and soul,
To the best of sports — The Fox-hunt, The Fair Ones, and The Bowl,
To a stout heart in adversity through every ill to steer,
And when Fortune smiles a score of friends like those around us here
Hunters, where does Hope nest?
Not in the half-oped breast,
Nor the young rose,
Nor April sunrise—those
With a quick wing she brushes,
The wide world through,
Greets with the throat of thrushes,
Fades from as fast as dew.
But, would you spy her sleeping,
Cradled warm,
Look in the breast of weeping,
The tree stript by storm;
But, would you bind her fast,
Yours at last,
Bed-mate and lover,
Gain the last headland bare
That the cold tides cover,
There may you capture her, there,
Where the sea gives to the ground
Only the drift of the drowned.
Yet, if she slips you, once found,
Push to her uttermost lair
In the low house of despair.
There will she watch by your head,
Sing to you till you be dead,
Then, with your child in her breast,
In another heart build a new nest.
Who knows the hours
Of evening showers
And drying flowers
From a lover, sent
When tales of love
I thought were meant
How, now, I wish I could
Afford the RENT
To continue leasing
The quiet cabin of your heart.
I throw my gun in the back of my truck
With it I hope to kill a 12-point buck
While in the woods, BANG! I see the deer fall
I take him home, freeze the meat, and mount his horns on my wall
I grab my pole and tackle box and head to the lake
At this time in the morning, I feel barely awake
There is no school today, I’m glad there is no class
A mighty tug on my line, I hook a large mouth bass
There is nothing like hunting; waiting for the kill
Cutting and cleaning the meat my freezer I’ll soon fill
Deer steaks and deer jerky have such a great taste
And with his head on my wall nothing goes to waste
I like fishing, fishing is fun
Fishing underneath the rising sun
I like catching the fish and putting them in a net
Fish is a great dish when the table is set
My truck is unstoppable; it can’t beat
I slam the door and strap myself in the seat
I start the engine and press the gas to the floor
My truck takes off and my engine lets out a roar
I wouldn’t be able to hunt or fish if it wasn’t for my truck
With it I carry poles, guns, and my fallen buck
I pull my boat with my truck in four-wheel-drive
At my destination I always arrive
The hunter’s.308 Musgrave hunting rifle
lies next to him in pieces
in the faint light of the hunting lodge
where he is cleaning the weapon
and in the distance a jackal
is calling at dusk,
he notices a swarm of wild doves
landing in the marula tree.
When the parts of the weapon
is joined as it belongs,
he carefully puts the weapon away
before he walks out
joining his wife at the barbeque fire
and the smell of fried lamb chops
makes his stomach growl
while he takes a pair of frying tongs from her,
turning around strings of sausages
above them the stars in the night sky
are shot-gunned into the black,
there are hyenas attracted by the smell
of the frying meat
laughing behind some trees,
somewhere he hears a kudu snorting
and the moon hangs yellow-gold above them
while he stirs the porridge
in the black three-legged pot
and his wife can swear
that a leopard with glowing eyes
is peering at them.
Soaring gull, against the sky
I, on wing, to circle high
On a path to seek, begin
All the crumbs you lay quite thin
On my search to strongly feast
On your trailing beauty beach
Diving fast to steal a taste
Of Your quicken discarded waste
For one morsel in the sand
Not the waving of your hand
In your growing shorter shadow
On a passing breeze to straddle
Eyeing pieces of your promise
Set coordinating compass
Steering straight my downward spiral
Fighting off whomever rivals
My catching and consuming
As the crimson sunset looming
Makes your tidbits left so tempting
A retrieval task, lamenting
My feathers flash their bunting
Headfirst falling while crumb hunting
(This is a fictional poem)
When my friend and I went deer hunting, I accidentally shot a doe.
If you're wondering if I got away with it, the answer is no.
It was a bad day for me to lose my glasses.
The game warden saw us and he kicked our asses.
We got the crap beat out of us even though it was two against one.
After beating us to a bloody pulp, he put a second hole in our butts with my gun.
We had to sleep on our stomachs for weeks, it was terrible to go through.
We went through all of that misery and we didn't even get some damn venison stew.
Deer hunting time is here again
And many hunters take to the woods
After months of planning with family and friends
They gather in common brotherhood
It's a freedom that fills the soul of a man
With the peace of God's nature all around
Lessons that have been taught since time began
And lifelong memories and friendships are found
Hunting is taught by tradition still yet
Knowledge passed on from man to man
And you'll learn things that you'll never forget
And respect nature more, our wildlife, and our land
So all you hunters enjoy this time
May you be skilled and have lots of luck
May God bless you as you hunt today
And may you bag that ten point buck! !
Dedicated to my Father who enjoyed hunting with family and friends all of his life.  He died of a heart attack on the opening day, while hunting with my brothers and uncles.  He could not have asked for a better way to go, doing what he loved most!
Pitch black outside, ten below zero,
Man I am freezing cold;
My age is starting to creep up on me,
and boy am I feeling old.
But as the sky starts to lighten,
once black starts to turn blue;
My heart starts to beat a little faster,
my energy and strength are renewed.
Then I see the ducks in the distance,
take off for their morning flight;
I no longer notice the cold,
as I keep the ducks in my sight.
Slowly I start to call,
I see the ducks look my way;
Their checkin out my decoy spread,
and the safety that is displayed.
They circle once, they circle twice,
Then I see them cup their wings;
They are going to try and land,
oh what happiness this brings.
Ten feet or so from the water,
just before they land;
I bring my shotgun to my shoulder,
and steady it with my hands;
I squeeze the trigger slowly,
and let my steel shot fly;
My aim is true, my shot is perfect,
I watch the ducks fall from the sky.
The Vanishing
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
They shuddered to think that the chase might fail,
And the Beaver, excited at last,
Went bounding along on the tip of its tail,
For the daylight was nearly past.
"There is Thingumbob shouting!" the Bellman said.
"He is shouting like mad, only hark!
He is waving his hands, he is wagging his head,
He has certainly found a Snark!"
They gazed in delight, while the Butcher exclaimed
"He was always a desperate wag!"
They beheld him--their Baker--their hero unnamed--
On the top of a neighbouring crag,
Erect and sublime, for one moment of time,
In the next, that wild figure they saw
(As if stung by a spasm) plunge into a chasm,
While they waited and listened in awe.
"It's a Snark!" was the sound that first came to their ears,
And seemed almost too good to be true.
Then followed a torrent of laughter and cheers:
Then the ominous words "It's a Boo--"
Then, silence. Some fancied they heard in the air
A weary and wandering sigh
That sounded like "--jum!" but the others declare
It was only a breeze that went by.
They hunted till darkness came on, but they found
Not a button, or feather, or mark,
By which they could tell that they stood on the ground
Where the Baker had met with the Snark.
In the midst of the word he was trying to say
In the midst of his laughter and glee,
He had softly and suddenly vanished away--
For the Snark was a Boojum, you see.
The Beaver's Lesson
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
Then the Butcher contrived an ingenious plan
For making a separate sally;
And fixed on a spot unfrequented by man,
A dismal and desolate valley.
But the very same plan to the Beaver occurred:
It had chosen the very same place:
Yet neither betrayed, by a sign or a word,
The disgust that appeared in his face.
Each thought he was thinking of nothing but "Snark"
And the glorious work of the day;
And each tried to pretend that he did not remark
That the other was going that way.
But the valley grew narrow and narrower still,
And the evening got darker and colder,
Till (merely from nervousness, not from goodwill)
They marched along shoulder to shoulder.
Then a scream, shrill and high, rent the shuddering sky,
And they knew that some danger was near:
The Beaver turned pale to the tip of its tail,
And even the Butcher felt queer.
He thought of his childhood, left far far behind--
That blissful and innocent state--
The sound so exactly recalled to his mind
A pencil that squeaks on a slate!
"'Tis the voice of the Jubjub!" he suddenly cried.
(This man, that they used to call "Dunce.")
"As the Bellman would tell you," he added with pride,
"I have uttered that sentiment once.
"'Tis the note of the Jubjub! Keep count, I entreat;
You will find I have told it you twice.
'Tis the song of the Jubjub! The proof is complete,
If only I've stated it thrice."
The Beaver had counted with scrupulous care,
Attending to every word:
But it fairly lost heart, and outgrabe in despair,
When the third repetition occurred.
It felt that, in spite of all possible pains,
It had somehow contrived to lose count,
And the only thing now was to rack its poor brains
By reckoning up the amount.
"Two added to one--if that could but be done,"
It said, "with one's fingers and thumbs!"
Recollecting with tears how, in earlier years,
It had taken no pains with its sums.
"The thing can be done," said the Butcher, "I think.
The thing must be done, I am sure.
The thing shall be done! Bring me paper and ink,
The best there is time to procure."
The Beaver brought paper,portfolio, pens,
And ink in unfailing supplies:
While strange creepy creatures came out of their dens,
And watched them with wondering eyes.
So engrossed was the Butcher, he heeded them not,
As he wrote with a pen in each hand,
And explained all the while in a popular style
Which the Beaver could well understand.
"Taking Three as the subject to reason about--
A convenient number to state--
We add Seven, and Ten, and then multiply out
By One Thousand diminished by Eight.
"The result we proceed to divide, as you see,
By Nine Hundred and Ninety Two:
Then subtract Seventeen, and the answer must be
Exactly and perfectly true.
"The method employed I would gladly explain,
While I have it so clear in my head,
If I had but the time and you had but the brain--
But much yet remains to be said.
"In one moment I've seen what has hitherto been
Enveloped in absolute mystery,
And without extra charge I will give you at large
A Lesson in Natural History."
In his genial way he proceeded to say
(Forgetting all laws of propriety,
And that giving instruction, without introduction,
Would have caused quite a thrill in Society),
"As to temper the Jubjub's a desperate bird,
Since it lives in perpetual passion:
Its taste in costume is entirely absurd--
It is ages ahead of the fashion:
"But it knows any friend it has met once before:
It never will look at a bride:
And in charity-meetings it stands at the door,
And collects--though it does not subscribe.
" Its flavor when cooked is more exquisite far
Than mutton, or oysters, or eggs:
(Some think it keeps best in an ivory jar,
And some, in mahogany kegs)
"You boil it in sawdust: you salt it in glue:
You condense it with locusts and tape:
Still keeping one principal object in view--
To preserve its symmetrical shape."
The Butcher would gladly have talked till next day,
But he felt that the lesson must end,
And he wept with delight in attempting to say
He considered the Beaver his friend.
While the Beaver confessed, with affectionate looks
More eloquent even than tears,
It had learned in ten minutes far more than all books
Would have taught it in seventy years.
They returned hand-in-hand, and the Bellman, unmanned
(For a moment) with noble emotion,
Said "This amply repays all the wearisome days
We have spent on the billowy ocean!"
Such friends, as the Beaver and Butcher became,
Have seldom if ever been known;
In winter or summer, 'twas always the same--
You could never meet either alone.
And when quarrels arose--as one frequently finds
Quarrels will, spite of every endeavor--
The song of the Jubjub recurred to their minds,
And cemented their friendship for ever!
The Landing
"Just the place for a Snark!" the Bellman cried,
As he landed his crew with care;
Supporting each man on the top of the tide
By a finger entwined in his hair.
"Just the place for a Snark! I have said it twice:
That alone should encourage the crew.
Just the place for a Snark! I have said it thrice:
What I tell you three times is true."
The crew was complete: it included a Boots--
A maker of Bonnets and Hoods--
A Barrister, brought to arrange their disputes--
And a Broker, to value their goods.
A Billiard-marker, whose skill was immense,
Might perhaps have won more than his share--
But a Banker, engaged at enormous expense,
Had the whole of their cash in his care.
There was also a Beaver, that paced on the deck,
Or would sit making lace in the bow:
And had often (the Bellman said) saved them from wreck
Though none of the sailors knew how.
There was one who was famed for the number of things
He forgot when he entered the ship:
His umbrella, his watch, all his jewels and rings,
And the clothes he had bought for the trip.
He had forty-two boxes, all carefully packed,
With his name painted clearly on each:
But, since he omitted to mention the fact,
They were all left behind on the beach.
The loss of his clothes hardly mattered, because
He had seven coats on when he came,
With three pair of boots--but the worst of is was,
He had wholly forgotten his name.
He would answer to "Hi!" or to any loud cry,
Such as "Fry me!" or "Fritter my wig!"
To "What-you-may-call-um!" or "What-was-his-name!"
But especially "Thing-um-a-jig!"
While, for those who preferred a more forcible word,
He had different names from these:
His intimate friends called him "Candle-ends",
And his enemies "Toasted-cheese"
"His form is ungainly--his intellect small--"
(So the Bellman would often remark)--
"But his courage is perfect! And that, after all,
Is the thing that one needs with a Snark."
He would joke with hyaenas, returning their stare
With an impudent wag of the head:
And he once went a walk, paw-in-paw, with a bear,
"Just to keep up its spirits," he said.
He came as a Baker: but owned, when too late--
And it drove the poor Bellman half-mad--
He could only bake Bridecake--for which, I may state,
No materials were to be had.
The last of the crew needs especial remark,
Though he looked an incredible dunce:
He had just one idea--but, that one being "Snark",
The good Bellman engaged him at once.
He came as a Butcher: but gravely declared,
When the ship had been sailing a week,
He could only kill Beavers. The Bellman looked scared,
And was almost too frightened to speak:
But at length he explained, in a tremulous tone,
There was only one Beaver on board;
And that was a tame one he had of his own,
Whose death would be deeply deplored.
The Beaver, who happened to hear the remark,
Protested, with tears in its eyes,
That not even the rapture of hunting the Snark
Could atone for that dismal surprise!
It strongly advised that the Butcher should be
Conveyed in a separate ship:
But the Bellman declared that would never agree
With the plans he had made for the trip:
Navigation was always a difficult art,
Though with only one ship and one bell:
And he feared he must really decline, for his part,
Undertaking another as well.
The Beaver's best course was, no doubt, to procure
A second-hand dagger-proof coat--
So the baker advised it--and next, to insure
Its life in some Office of note:
This the Baker suggested, and offered for hire
(On moderate terms), or for sale,
Two excellent Policies, one Against Fire
And one Against Damage From Hail.
Yet still, ever after that sorrowful day,
Whenever the Butcher was by,
The Beaver kept looking the opposite way,
And appeared unaccountably shy.
The Hunting
The Bellman looked uffish, and wrinkled his brow.
"If only you'd spoken before!
It's excessively awkward to mention it now,
With the Snark, so to speak, at the door!
"We should all of us grieve, as you well may believe,
If you never were met with again--
But surely, my man, when the voyage began,
You might have suggested it then?
"It's excessively awkward to mention it now--
As I think I've already remarked."
And the man they called "Hi!" replied, with a sigh,
"I informed you the day we embarked.
"You may charge me with murder--or want of sense--
(We are all of us weak at times):
But the slightest approach to a false pretence
Was never among my crimes!
"I said it in Hebrew--I said it in Dutch--
I said it in German and Greek:
But I wholly forgot (and it vexes me much)
That English is what you speak!"
"'Tis a pitiful tale," said the Bellman, whose face
Had grown longer at every word:
"But, now that you've stated the whole of your case,
More debate would be simply absurd.
"The rest of my speech" (he exclaimed to his men)
"You shall hear when I've leisure to speak it.
But the Snark is at hand, let me tell you again!
'Tis your glorious duty to seek it!
"To seek it with thimbles, to seek it with care;
To pursue it with forks and hope;
To threaten its life with a railway-share;
To charm it with smiles and soap!
"For the Snark's a peculiar creature, that wo'n't
Be caught in a commonplace way.
Do all that you know, and try all that you don't:
Not a chance must be wasted to-day!
"For England expects--I forbear to proceed:
'Tis a maxim tremendous, but trite:
And you'd best be unpacking the things that you need
To rig yourselves out for the fight."
Then the Banker endorsed a blank cheque (which he crossed),
And changed his loose silver for notes:
The Baker with care combed his whiskers and hair.
And shook the dust out of his coats:
The Boots and the Broker were sharpening a spade--
Each working the grindstone in turn:
But the Beaver went on making lace, and displayed
No interest in the concern:
Though the Barrister tried to appeal to its pride
And vainly proceeded to cite
A number of cases, in which making laces
Had proved an infringement of right.
The maker of Bonnets ferociously planned
A novel arrangement of bows:
While the Billiard-marker with quivering hand
Was chalking the tip of his nose.
But the Butcher turned nervous, and dressed himself fine,
With yellow kid gloves and a ruff--
Said he felt it exactly like going to dine,
Which the Bellman declared was all "stuff".
"Introduce me, now there's a good fellow," he said,
"If we happen to meet it together!"
And the Bellman, sagaciously nodding his head,
Said "That must depend on the weather."
The Beaver went simply galumphing about,
At seeing the Butcher so shy:
And even the Baker, though stupid and stout,
Made an effort to wink with one eye.
"Be a man!" said the Bellman in wrath, as he heard
The Butcher beginning to sob.
"Should we meet with a Jubjub, that desperate bird,
We shall need all our strength for the job!"
The Bellman's Speech
The Bellman himself they all praised to the skies--
Such a carriage, such ease and such grace!
Such solemnity, too! One could see he was wise,
The moment one looked in his face!
He had bought a large map representing the sea,
Without the least vestige of land:
And the crew were much pleased when they found it to be
A map they could all understand.
"What's the good of Mercator's North Poles and Equators,
Tropics, Zones, and Meridian Lines?"
So the Bellman would cry: and the crew would reply
"They are merely conventional signs!
"Other maps are such shapes, with their islands and capes!
But we've got our brave Captain to thank"
(So the crew would protest) "that he's bought us the best--
A perfect and absolute blank!"
This was charming, no doubt: but they shortly found out
That the Captain they trusted so well
Had only one notion for crossing the ocean
And that was to tingle his bell.
He was thoughtful and grave--but the orders he gave
Were enough to bewilder a crew.
When he cried "Steer to starboard, but keep her head larboard!"
What on earth was the helmsman to do?
Then the bowsprit got mixed with the rudder sometimes:
A thing, as the Bellman remarked,
That frequently happens in tropical climes,
When a vessel is, so to speak, "snarked".
But the principal failing occurred in the sailing,
And the Bellman, perplexed and distressed,
Said he had hoped, at least, when the wind blew due East,
That the ship would not travel due West!
But the danger was past--they had landed at last,
With their boxes, portmanteaus, and bags:
Yet at first sight the crew were not pleased with the view
Which consisted of chasms and crags.
The Bellman perceived that their spirits were low,
And repeated in musical tone
Some jokes he had kept for a season of woe--
But the crew would do nothing but groan.
He served out some grog with a liberal hand,
And bade them sit down on the beach:
And they could not but own that their Captain looked grand,
As he stood and delivered his speech.
"Friends, Romans, and countrymen, lend me your ears!"
(They were all of them fond of quotations:
So they drank to his health, and they gave him three cheers,
While he served out additional rations).
"We have sailed many months, we have sailed many weeks,
(Four weeks to the month you may mark),
But never as yet ('tis your Captain who speaks)
Have we caught the least glimpse of a Snark!
"We have sailed many weeks, we have sailed many days,
(Seven days to the week I allow),
But a Snark, on the which we might lovingly gaze,
We have never beheld till now!
"Come, listen, my men, while I tell you again
The five unmistakable marks
By which you may know, wheresoever you go,
The warranted genuine Snarks.
"Let us take them in order. The first is the taste,
Which is meagre and hollow, but crisp:
Like a coat that is rather too tight in the waist,
With a flavour of Will-o'-the-Wisp.
"Its habit of getting up late you'll agree
That it carries too far, when I say
That it frequently breakfasts at five-o'clock tea,
And dines on the following day.
"The third is its slowness in taking a jest.
Should you happen to venture on one,
It will sigh like a thing that is deeply distressed:
And it always looks grave at a pun.
"The fourth is its fondness for bathing-machines,
Which it constantly carries about,
And believes that they add to the beauty of scenes--
A sentiment open to doubt.
"The fifth is ambition. It next will be right
To describe each particular batch:
Distinguishing those that have feathers, and bite,
From those that have whiskers, and scratch.
"For, although common Snarks do no manner of harm,
Yet I feel it my duty to say
Some are Boojums--" The Bellman broke off in alarm,
For the Baker had fainted away.
The Banker's Fate
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
And the Banker, inspired with a courage so new
It was matter for general remark,
Rushed madly ahead and was lost to their view
In his zeal to discover the Snark.
But while he was seeking with thimbles and care,
A Bandersnatch swiftly drew nigh
And grabbed at the Banker, who shrieked in despair,
For he knew it was useless to fly.
He offered large discount--he offered a cheque
(Drawn "to bearer") for seven-pounds-ten:
But the Bandersnatch merely extended its neck
And grabbed at the Banker again.
Without rest or pause--while those frumious jaws
Went savagely snapping around--
He skipped and he hopped, and he floundered and flopped,
Till fainting he fell to the ground.
The Bandersnatch fled as the others appeared
Led on by that fear-stricken yell:
And the Bellman remarked "It is just as I feared!"
And solemnly tolled on his bell.
He was black in the face, and they scarcely could trace
The least likeness to what he had been:
While so great was the fright that his waistcoat turned white--
A wonderful thing to be seen!
To the horror of all who were present that day,
He uprose in full evening dress,
And with senseless grimaces endeavoured to say
What his tongue could no longer express.
Down he sank in a chair--ran his hands through his hair--
And chanted in mimsiest tones
Words whose utter inanity proved his insanity,
While he rattled a couple of bones.
"Leave him here to his fate--it is getting so late!"
The Bellman exclaimed in a fright.
"We have lost half a day. Any further delay,
And we sha'n't catch a Snark before night!"
The Barrister's Dream
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
But the Barrister, weary of proving in vain
That the Beaver's lace-making was wrong,
Fell asleep, and in dreams saw the creature quite plain
That his fancy had dwelt on so long.
He dreamed that he stood in a shadowy Court,
Where the Snark, with a glass in its eye,
Dressed in gown, bands, and wig, was defending a pig
On the charge of deserting its sty.
The Witnesses proved, without error or flaw,
That the sty was deserted when found:
And the Judge kept explaining the state of the law
In a soft under-current of sound.
The indictment had never been clearly expressed,
And it seemed that the Snark had begun,
And had spoken three hours, before any one guessed
What the pig was supposed to have done.
The Jury had each formed a different view
(Long before the indictment was read),
And they all spoke at once, so that none of them knew
One word that the others had said.
"You must know--" said the Judge: but the Snark exclaimed "Fudge!"
That statute is obsolete quite!
Let me tell you, my friends, the whole question depends
On an ancient manorial right.
"In the matter of Treason the pig would appear
To have aided, but scarcely abetted:
While the charge of Insolvency fails, it is clear,
If you grant the plea 'never indebted'.
"The fact of Desertion I will not dispute:
But its guilt, as I trust, is removed
(So far as relates to the costs of this suit)
By the Alibi which has been proved.
"My poor client's fate now depends on your votes."
Here the speaker sat down in his place,
And directed the Judge to refer to his notes
And briefly to sum up the case.
But the Judge said he never had summed up before;
So the Snark undertook it instead,
And summed it so well that it came to far more
Than the Witnesses ever had said!
When the verdict was called for, the Jury declined,
As the word was so puzzling to spell;
But they ventured to hope that the Snark wouldn't mind
Undertaking that duty as well.
So the Snark found the verdict, although, as it owned,
It was spent with the toils of the day:
When it said the word "GUILTY!" the Jury all groaned
And some of them fainted away.
Then the Snark pronounced sentence, the Judge being quite
Too nervous to utter a word:
When it rose to its feet, there was silence like night,
And the fall of a pin might be heard.
"Transportation for life" was the sentence it gave,
"And then to be fined forty pound."
The Jury all cheered, though the Judge said he feared
That the phrase was not legally sound.
But their wild exultation was suddenly checked
When the jailer informed them, with tears,
Such a sentence would not have the slightest effect,
As the pig had been dead for some years.
The Judge left the Court, looking deeply disgusted
But the Snark, though a little aghast,
As the lawyer to whom the defence was intrusted,
Went bellowing on to the last.
Thus the Barrister dreamed, while the bellowing seemed
To grow every moment more clear:
Till he woke to the knell of a furious bell,
Which the Bellman rang close at his ear.
The Baker's Tale
They roused him with muffins--they roused him with ice--
They roused him with mustard and cress--
They roused him with jam and judicious advice--
They set him conundrums to guess.
When at length he sat up and was able to speak,
His sad story he offered to tell;
And the Bellman cried "Silence! Not even a shriek!"
And excitedly tingled his bell.
There was silence supreme! Not a shriek, not a scream,
Scarcely even a howl or a groan,
As the man they called "Ho!" told his story of woe
In an antediluvian tone.
"My father and mother were honest, though poor--"
"Skip all that!" cried the Bellman in haste.
"If it once becomes dark, there's no chance of a Snark--
We have hardly a minute to waste!"
"I skip forty years," said the Baker in tears,
"And proceed without further remark
To the day when you took me aboard of your ship
To help you in hunting the Snark.
"A dear uncle of mine (after whom I was named)
Remarked, when I bade him farewell--"
"Oh, skip your dear uncle!" the Bellman exclaimed,
As he angrily tingled his bell.
"He remarked to me then," said that mildest of men,
"'If your Snark be a Snark, that is right:
Fetch it home by all means--you may serve it with greens
And it's handy for striking a light.
"'You may seek it with thimbles--and seek it with care--
You may hunt it with forks and hope;
You may threaten its life with a railway-share;
You may charm it with smiles and soap--'"
("That's exactly the method," the Bellman bold
In a hasty parenthesis cried,
"That's exactly the way I have always been told
That the capture of Snarks should be tried!")
"'But oh, beamish nephew, beware of the day,
If your Snark be a Boojum! For then
You will softly and suddenly vanish away,
And never be met with again!"
"It is this, it is this that oppresses my soul,
When I think of my uncle's last words:
And my heart is like nothing so much as a bowl
Brimming over with quivering curds!
"It is this, it is this--" "We have had that before!"
The Bellman indignantly said.
And the Baker replied "Let me say it once more.
It is this, it is this that I dread!
"I engage with the Snark--every night after dark--
In a dreamy delirious fight:
I serve it with greens in those shadowy scenes,
And I use it for striking a light:
"But if ever I meet with a Boojum, that day,
In a moment (of this I am sure),
I shall softly and suddenly vanish away--
And the notion I cannot endure!"
For Hunting...
Heart is given only with heart...
Nobody can fly with one wing.
I feel with  smell, snow will begin.
The dog oblivion - will start to bark...
You do not miss in winter's nights.
You'll prepare the  horse for  hunt's...
Only - is cautious, is  on each  step...
Traps are awake for you  in forest....
A so called sport of the upper class that inspired the bards to rhyme
Fox hunting is banned in Britain everything has it's time
For nothing last forever it had passed it's use by date
And in chasing down and killing a frightened creature what is to celebrate?
John Masefield's long poem 'Reynard the Fox' I readily can recall
One of the best on fox hunting if not the best of all
But that aside fox hunting was cruel or to me 'twould seem that way
For to be hunted down and mauled to death by dogs not what you'd call fair play.
I read in the Newspapers how those for fox hunting protested long and loud
But there was nothing in this so called sport of which they could feel proud
For to watch a creature torn to shreds could hardly be much fun
It seems a far more painful way to die than the quicker death by gun.
The day is near when all blood sports will be things of the past
For all things have their use by date and nothing seems to last
Some may see the fox as vermin but the fox warrants a fair go
And empathy for wild born creatures not too much to ask to show.
Fox hunting is banned in Britain such good news is good to hear
News well worth celebrating to that I'll drink a beer
To be torn to shreds by a pack of hounds seems an awful way to die
And to this very cruel blood sport good riddance and goodbye.
THE FOX MEDITATES
When Samson set my brush afire
To spoil the Timnites barley,
I made my point for Leicestershire
And left Philistia early.
Through Gath and Rankesborough Gorse I fled,
And took the Coplow Road, sir!
And was a Gentleman in Red
When all the Quorn wore woad, sir!
When Rome lay massed on Hadrian's Wall,
And nothing much was doing,
Her bored Centurions heard my call
O' nights when I went wooing.
They raised a pack-they ran it well
(For I was there to run 'em)
From Aesica to Carter Fell,
And down North Tyne to Hunnum.
When William, landed hot for blood,
And Harold's hosts were smitten,
I lay at earth in Battle Wood
While Domesday Book was written.
Whatever harm he did to man,
I owe him pure affection;
For in his righteous reign began
The first of Game Protection.
When Charles, my namesake, lost his mask,
And Oliver dropped his'n,
I found those Northern Squires a task,
To keep 'em out of prison.
In boots as big as milking-pails,
With holsters on the pommel,
They chevied me across the Dales
Instead of fighting Cromwell.
When thrifty Walpole took the helm,
And hedging came in fashion,
The March of Progress gave my realm
Enclosure and Plantation.
'Twas then, to soothe their discontent,
I showed each pounded Master,
However fast the Commons went,
I went a little faster!
When Pigg and Jorrocks held the stage,
And Steam had linked the Shires,
I broke the staid Victorian age
To posts, and rails, and wires.
Then fifty mile was none too far
To go by train to cover,
Till some dam' sutler pupped a car,
And decent sport was over!
When men grew shy of hunting stag,
For fear the Law might try 'em,
The Car put up an average bag
Of twenty dead per diem.
Then every road was made a rink
For Coroners to sit on;
And so began, in skid and stink,
The real blood-sport of Britain!
Going hunting for some poets
The ones with bite and teeth
And when I find their tracks
I’ll rest a while beneath
And let their understanding
Sink deep into my bones
It could be from Mr.Homer
Or that man Mr. Jones.
And when I’ve caught a posse
Of ten maybe a score
I’ll stand them to attention
And sing them loud a loud Ohm’s law
Then we’ll sail a sailing galleon
And roam the seven seas
With thunder in the main sail
We’ll make good time with ease
With Mr. Ohm as  Captain
We’ll seek the devils lair
And blind him in the light
And drag him by his hair
We’ll bury him far at sea
In fathoms blue and deep
And when he’s laid to rest
We won’t lose a wink of sleep
We won’t need a.45
Or blood upon a sword
And if I end up in court
I’ll plead 'guilty yes my Lord',
We took his ghostly fashion
And buried it deep at sea
So one more of your hearts
Shall ever more be free
For when we cast him out
Into the watery deep
Not a single poet amongst us
Did stand there and did weep
For they all know with reason
Just where the devil hides
In the shadows of illusion
Where selfishness resides
So Sir we all plead guilty
And would do it yet again
To free one more Soul from sorrow
From the devil’s heartless reign.
A Golden Eagle stands tall upon its perch,
with keen eyes, for its next victim to search.
Suddenly it spreads wings, is off with a lurch,
sweeping low o'er groves of aspen and birch.
A jackrabbit stirs near a clump of brush.
Silently toward it the eagle does rush.
The rabbit's life-ending cry breaks the hush.
Too late!  The eagle, its backbones does crush.
With rabbit in tow it flies to its nest
where its chick gobbles warm handouts with zest.
With its mate the parent shares all the rest,
preparing themselves for the next hunting quest.
(Dec.2006; revised Dec.2012)
Come come
You are welcome.
If infact
You are coming
For goodwill hunting.
The Sage’s unkind action
Brought a total destruction
Of lives and property
In the entire country.
As wild animals attacked,
The people were scared.
When the King asked,
His ministers replied:
“The situation is alarming.
So, we’ll go for hunting,
That’ll create a terror
And drive them out in fear.”
He immediately gave orders
To call for all the hunters.
Hunters with their spears,
Came in countless numbers.
Dogs, white, black, red,
In various colors chased.
Drummers drummed
Torch bearers followed.
Cart load of ropes,
Big nets and traps
Were carried to catch
Animals after a watch.
They took strong bows,
With plenty of arrows,
To kill wild animals
Roaming in jungles.
With Chandramathi, his consort
Harichandran went in his chariot
To hunt the wild animals
And kill the ferocious creatures,
The King’s brave soldiers
Joining with the hunters,
Chased all the animals
Deep into the jungles.
Many were trapped.
Many were killed.
They burnt jungles
Out came more animals.
Animals burned in fire.
Some ran away in fear.
Blood flowed like river.
It was a scene of horror.
With their complaints
Escaped animals went
To Viswamithra then
For his merciful action.
He created a wild pig,
That was unusually big
To defeat Harichandran,
That was his next plan.
The magical pig killed,
As many as it attacked.
To the King, hunters ran,
For their safe protection,
The king became hot.
His one arrow shot
Blew the pig out
Killing it on the spot.
The King then went
And rested in his tent.
In his sleep that night
A bad dream he dreamt.
He married in his dream
Five wives at a time,
One he gave to a hermit,
The second one ran out.
Without food that day,
The third passed away.
Her eyes, the fourth lost.
The fifth stayed till last.
Next day, he sent for
His wise chief minister,
Who explained to him
How to unfold the dream.
“It means, you’ll lose
Your kingdom, besides
Wealth, wife, and child
But win back all at the end.”
Chandramathi felt sorry,
But said, “Let us not worry
As we’ve committed no sin,
And truth shall always win.
Lawyers do deliver a death kiss—
Helping crooks jaws of justice to miss,
Hands of laws to forestall,
As this cartoon tells all,
Wonder, what their role is in justice,
Whereso this legal beast
Goes, goes bare truth to twist,
Dress up falsehood to strut at fat fees.
_________________________________
Happenings | 05.01.2020 |
Topic: law, justice
Fading seductions,
And reduced temptations...
Do not leave easy,
As we face replacements.
Habits are only bad,
If guilt is applied.
It would be nice...
To be gratified,
Without remorse at its side.
Undoing explicitness,
Is difficult to do without.
Discreeted peeks do not satisfy,
A libido that is denied...
In and outside.
With wishes to be freed,
To 'sniff' a whiff and scatter about!
And there hiding in our minds,
Is an undefined lust that grows.
And the more we try,
Losing that part of us...
Like a diet from it teases,
Until an urgency explodes!
The more the craving,
For 'it'...
Within us shows,
The hounding of the wolf!
'Where are my sunglasses?
It is the hour of the hunting,
To release some grunts! '
Some houses seem to welcome you.
You feel at ease immediately.
It is if the walls recall
What happened here and store it all.
The triumphs and the tragedies
Firm memories of past events
Have been recorded faithfully
Each and every incident.
If you are at all sensitive
You tune into the ambience,
the positive and negative.
Impinge somehow so you can sense.
That something dreadful happened here
It may be faint it may be strong
but it affects the atmosphere.
You know at once this house is wrong
You’re certain that it will not do.
You have no doubt, no doubt at all
You know the house is telling you
it has no choice it must recall
All the unpleasant memories
which it has stored so faithfully.
For decades perhaps centuries.
You choose to leave immediately.
The next house which you choose to view
affects you in a different way.
It seems prepared to welcome you.
You can decide without delay
It is not hard to make the choice
This is the house that you will buy
You listen to that house’s voice
because you know it cannot lie.
You go ahead complete the deal
prepare to move in right away
You are content because you feel
that everything has gone your way.
You know that it was meant to be
It’s all that you were looking for.
This house responds positively
You need not look at any more.
21/07/2009
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
Time was when spring returned we went
To find another home to rent;
We wanted fresher, cleaner walls,
And bigger rooms and wider halls,
And open plumbing and the dome
That made the fashionable home.
But now with spring we want to sell,
And seek a finer place to dwell.
Our thoughts have turned from dens and domes;
We want the latest thing in homes;
To life we'll not be reconciled
Until we have a bathroom tiled.
A butler's pantry we desire,
Although no butler do we hire;
Nell's life will be one round of gloom
Without a closet for the broom,
And mine will dreary be and sour
Unless the bathroom has a shower.
For months and months we've sat and dreamed
Of paneled walls and ceilings beamed
And built-in cases for the books,
An attic room to be the cook's.
No house will she consent to view
Unless it has a sun room, too.
There must be wash bowls here and there
To save much climbing of the stair;
A sleeping porch we both demand —
This fad has swept throughout the land —
And, Oh, 'twill give her heart a wrench
Not to possess a few doors, French.
I want to dig and walk around
At least full fifty feet of ground;
She wants the latest style in tubs;
I want more room for trees and shrubs,
And a garage, with light and heat,
That can be entered from the street.
The trouble is the things we seek
Cannot be bought for ten-a-week.
And all the joys for which we sigh
Are just too rich for us to buy.
We have the taste to cut a dash:
The thing we're lacking most is cash.
For years we have gone hunting.
I've loved sitting next to him in his deer blind
or sitting quietly in my own.
Now that Boomer came into our lives
I see all living animals as having feelings
and I can't stand the thought of hunting.
Boomer is our bassett hound.
He thinks he is human.
I sometimes think so too.
The way he has shown me
that he feels things like we do
has changed me forever.
Now, all I can think of is that
if a dog can feel emotions like we do...
can a deer?
Are they afraid?
Do they know why we are sitting there?
Do they hate me?
I have to explain this to my husband
and pray he understands why
our hunting days together are over.
Fears of rejection,
Tears of dejection,
She is an ordinary girl,
A dark complexion!
A few women are coming,
To see her,
They want a match,
For a promising youth,
She is excited,
Her heart is beating,
She is twenty nine!
She is attractive.
She is lean and smart,
She is educated,
A working woman,
A bank officer,
She is famous for her cooking,
She is famous for her sewing,
She is famous for her knitting,
Well behaved,
Nice manners,
Has a kind heart,
Ready to serve,
And helpful!
She had made up,
Her eyes like stars,
She has dressed her hairs,
Shining and silky,
She has selected,
The best dress she has.
At the scheduled time,
The promising youth,
With her mother,
And two younger sisters,
All having dark complexion,
And a bulky body,
And the belly of the youth,
A real fun!
Came to see her,
They saw her,
They talked her,
They asked questions,
About her job and her salary,
And while leaving,
The old woman said,
Although her complexion is dark,
Although we don't expect,
A handsome dowry,
Still, We select her.
After their departure,
The girl went in her room,
And started crying,
She could not say her mother,
They haven't selected me,
They selected my income!
Weren’t there poets before there were words,
Cause didn’t they need love in the boreal eras of moose and rime-
My brothers, the grandfathers of her eyes of sad prehistory;
When her shoulders are naked opal on the stereoscopic hills:
Expressing themselves with bitter howls to
The throbbing night,
And in the flickering stalactites of fanged caverns,
Dripping with the minerals of torpid architecture,
As in the wombs of the earth, and the animals without names
Roaming, the men without names:
They can smell her joints through her skin, and her needs.
Wasn’t there love then all of the truth,
The magnetic directions without slabs of death:
The concrete tombs we go into work now:
And the occupations which give us the speech of our employers,
The busy blue cars buzz from each infected wound.
And didn’t our antediluvian lovers know better of love,
Wordless, speechless hunting for the vocabularies
Nothing more than mist from her sought lips:
The need to survive,
Her thighs skipping across stones on the high banks:
An icicle drips, she cries naked like a blue lion in the trees,
As the clouds swathe the highest points of the earth like mourners:
Wanting them, wanting something from her peripheral vision:
The heavenly crux of his stonebuilder hands cupping her,
Unwashed, untrimmed;
The poetry in the body like scraping flint,
The discovery of fire: the ecstatic truth of the leather tramps;
Now: all of this,
And the attempts the blue collared scribes make to
Scratch it out: This is not love. This is not rhyme.
The city moves, but doesn’t breathe, the lines do not lead to water.
This is not poetry, and there is not a poet left alive
Who doesn’t live in the cages of feral wolves, snarling his proofs,
Though we fools swirl the wine down our throats,
And call the doggerel of cadavers good:
Where they found her then could never be spoken,
But the quiet sentinels horned and pined swayed unreasonably:
That was the only time there was poetry:
Poetry is forgotten.... Poetry is living above the mountains,
And beneath the seas: Poetry has fled to the moon Unspoken: Now,
Only arithmetic of uneven sums,
The tin halos of politicians who worship no one but steady whores;
The men with cap guns, the plastic conquistadors.
Come down from this; it isn’t real. This is the last quarter in the machine.
Afterwards, it will go still.
It will stop entertaining us with whizzing predictions.
Then my love will find us muted in our time, and she will press
Our love to us from her love,
As flowers are kept in between the pages of lonely authors,
And there will be nothing to be said;
And there will be everything shouted from her gaze.
We will not say a word. We will return to her shelter,
And to the throbbing chambers,
The poetry we will reclaim,
We will neither hear nor speak.
When I was little and it was a rainy day,
My Mom wouldn’t let me go out to play.
Said I had to stay in or I’d get a cold,
And wouldn’t be able to grow real old.
Wouldn’t be able to enjoy all those years
And spend a lifetime in this vale of tears.
So I’d pester, “What can I do
If I can’t go out to play? ”
And if it wasn’t raining, she’d say,
“Go out and play on the new free way.”
Or my Dad would say, it was his stock,
“Go take a run around the block.”
My Mom, always wanting to be fair
But also wanting me outta her hair
Would suggest,
“Go type on that old Remington machine,
We’ve had that thing since the Pliestocene.”
So I’d get out Dad’s books that had a nice rhyme
And the rest of the day I’d spend my time
Typing some poet that I thought was mellow
My favorite being H. W. Longfellow.
I visualized the smithy and his chestnut tree
Pounding his anvil for all to see.
I never learned to type, but What the Hey!
I’d hunt and peck all through the day.
Later I learned I wasn’t alone on a raft
‘Cause a lot of others hadn’t learned that craft.
That’s why so many young stenos are such home wreckers,
It’s because most of them are huntin’ peckers
If I were the compassionless sort
without regard for flowing sanctity,
and if hunger more dire than thirst
rocked through me with stings true,
I would think of babies as morsels
of puffy flesh more succulent than
the sinewy knots riddled with tendons
once formed as joints since adults
bend knees with ardor too vast
to grasp pure honesty.
When snacking upon that treasure
trove of future’s calling, I laugh at
the clamor of rattles and chimes
since baby chops prove delicate
bits, stippled with rivulets of soft
fat yet to be flexed in purpose or
pleasure, and children blinded by
innocence never see the devil in
my blood-streaked eyes or the
cherub on my shoulder.
Once sated by my feast of infants,
my hollow chest will rumble loud
till my questing once more lumbers
to pastel quarters of babbling coos.
I shall round up more tinkering grubs
still swaddle-bound by fabric most
cloying, inviting my navy blood to
boil with pathogens unleashed by
centuries of lust, greed and avarice
until prospect staggers lost.
As he moves the mine detector
A few inches over the ground,
Making it vitally float
Among the ferns and weeds,
I come into this war
Slowly, with my one brother,
Watching his face grow deep
Between the earphones,
For I can tell
If we enter the buried battle
Of Nimblewill
Only by his expression.
Softly he wanders, parting
The grass with a dreaming hand.
No dead cry yet takes root
In his clapped ears
Or can be seen in his smile.
But underfoot I feel
The dead regroup,
The burst metals all in place,
The battle lines be drawn
Anew to include us
In Nimblewill,
And I carry the shovel and pick
More as if they were
Bright weapons that I bore.
A bird's cry breaks
In two, and into three parts.
We cross the creek; the cry
Shifts into another,
Nearer, bird, and is
Like the shout of a shadow—
Lived-with, appallingly close—
Or the soul, pronouncing
'Nimblewill':
Three tones; your being changes.
We climb the bank;
A faint light glows
On my brother's mouth.
I listen, as two birds fight
For a single voice, but he
Must be hearing the grave,
In pieces, all singing
To his clamped head,
For he smiles as if
He rose from the dead within
Green Nimblewill
And stood in his grandson's shape.
No shot from the buried war
Shall kill me now,
For the dead have waited here
A hundred years to create
Only the look on the face
Of my one brother,
Who stands among them, offering
A metal dish
Afloat in the trembling weeds,
With a long-buried light on his lips
At Nimblewill
And the dead outsinging two birds.
I choke the handle
Of the pick, and fall to my knees
To dig wherever he points,
To bring up mess tin or bullet,
To go underground
Still singing, myself,
Without a sound,
Like a man who renounces war,
Or one who shall lift up the past,
Not breathing 'Father,'
At Nimblewill,
But saying, 'Fathers! Fathers!'
good will hunting
hunting down answers
begins with knowing
asking right questions
i ask questions
questions are good
first the questions
then the answers
next applied an art of reason
where is truth where illusion
where deceit where delusion
where fabricated stealth collusion
jigsaw pieces found misplaced or lost
trail cold warm hot or made of frost
written data primary secondary forgery
forensic clues credibility elementary
preconceptions prime misdirection
story written story read is between lines
audience appeal sharpens attention
truth plot blind thickens deceit quickens
the truth the whole truth nothing but truth
testimony corresponds to facts accuracy
true sincerity true statements error made
life stories real misty truth untruth reality
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
How can I give you more of this ever failing verse?
I pick a line for you, it withers before it reaches your lips.
If I do not pick something beautiful enough,
You grow inattentive,
And give your heart to brave soldiers.
So I travel up the lighted stairs to the attic
Where the grandfather lives with his little girl.
They know everything about the mountains,
And they can sing:
I bottle their romance in an empty medicine bottle.
The label is torn off,
And you can use it for a vase;
It is easily big enough for all the things that I say,
To puncture your heart with an arrow head
I stole from my mother,
And that gives me time to look for new phrases
That grow where the dead men lay tongue-tied
In the ravishing gardens:
As you pause,
Because it is dangerous, the games we young men play,
And at anytime you can return to your queen:
In the forms of water and wood,
Just one suckle from the breast of that muse,
The lady only the published can tackle,
And you will never again turn your head to this page,
So I must open up these wrists
And search for the novel species of a diviner kingdom,
Leaping through the canals and estuaries,
For phrasings of thought I have to discover,
To butter your lips, and butcher your heart,
Because your are the kind my wanting needs,
And no other, though I may live alone
In the valleys of unrestive  attentions unto old age,
I will remain for you the cartographer of perfumes,
The trapper of far away gazes,
Hunting for your elusive love.
Our story’s noble as its tragic
like the grimace of a tyrant
no drama’s chance or magic
no detail that’s indifferent
makes our great love pathetic
And Thomas de Quincey drinking
Opiate poison sweet and chaste
Of his poor Anne went dreaming
We pass we pass since all must pass
Often I’ll be returning
Memories are hunting horns alas
whose note along the wind is dying
Sun comes and goes
So desperate, my mind is spinning
'I am single' the wind is singing
I can't clamp a toe on the ground
Moving like goats searching around
For a mate, someone to heal me
Always on mini-skirts in the street
My dressing hides nothing secret
I contemplate love for a kob
Where I hunt them like a cub
Everybody likes me, they lust me
I touch clouds, I thought they love me
He left me, he left and so they kept on
I can't recognise my mistakes
And they can't tell me
They don't love me
I want to be loved
This time I won't look for love
Let him get me at my parent's home
I wait for the right person!
In my youth I was a hunter.
As age advances, I hunt for memory.
I remember planting flowers by the front steps,
just old enough to dig with a spoon.
I planted nasturtiums and was amazed at the riot of color as that grew.
I knew then I wanted to grow things.
I remember the garden gate I built at seven and how
my mother bragged on its durability all her life.
I knew then I wanted to build things.
I remember painting the kitchen and the smell of the glossy oil paint.
I remember the dogwood in bloom in an upper valley.
I remember roaming, searching; I remember beech trees, and the stillness of the woods before my eye caught the movement of a squirrel.
I remember the jeweled rocks in our rippling creek.
I remember home, the garden patch, apple picking,
the cool fall air, the first frost, cedar Christmas trees
and priceless winters when southern snow blew in from the west.
I remember the first daffodils of spring.
All childhood is intact, all of my life stored in memory.
I remember love and love lost,
and found and lost again.
I remember joy and pain, grief and new hope.
For now the monster of forgetting is at bay.
I can remember.
I can hunt, I can find, all time not yet lost.
I am hunting my wayward heart.
I can feel that steady drum beat,
Following the ruby river
With fingertips like bloodhounds,
Tracking it to the source.
But continually the heart flees,
Running from this pain
That only ardor can inflict.
We all know it is only amour
We must armor ourselves for.
Love is a machete
Slashing on both sides -
As you fall into love,
And as you fall out -
All the time while under its spell
We are like sleepwalkers
Balancing on the single edge
That does not cut.
Snow last night
Early this year
Flakes still flutter
White drifts four feet deep.
Deep powder,
Feathery stuff,
So cold so dry
You see the six points on every flake
Each unique
I climb straight up the mountain
Before dawn
On the mountain's other side,
Away from ski lodge and trails.
No sound heard.
But my boots shuffling shuffling
Through snow
Up to my knees
Sunlight awakens the world
Dawn
I keep moving... one hour... then two.
The trees... leaves mostly fallen
Others still hanging, yellow or red
What are they?
Maple, ash, and oak,
Hemlock, poplar, some kind of pine
Fifteenth birthday last July
First hunt
All alone
Totally clueless
Delighted to be where I am.
Stop... eat some jerky and an apple
Drink some tea
Then go on, ever up and up.
Young... I think I can climb forever.
But I stop next to a wild apple tree
And suddenly!
Listen... what is that?
It's like whispering, whispering, whispering
In my ear
It is deer moving through the powdery snow
Whisper, whisper, whisper
I hear them from far away
They come in a line.  No antlers.
All does.  My.35 is up
Sighted in the day before
Waiting for the buck
Stunningly beautiful scenery,
High up on Belleayre Mountain
Watching those does, six—no seven of them
Gracefully moving through the snow
All in a line
And they don't see me
Don't catch my scent
Air too dry
They pass so close
I could reach my carbine out
And touch them with its tip.
CRASH in the tree line
Just above me...
Hundred yards away
A great antlered buck and a white tail
Disappearing in the flash of an eye
No fool he...That wise old buck!
My heart is beating fast as a rabbit
Tapping its paw
I couldn't take that buck
But I don't care.
I could never have even gotten him
Down from there, anyway
If I had shot him
But I don't care.
I'm glad he's alive and free
Just like me.
One of the most
Beautiful days of my life
Hunting up on Belleayre Mountain
Near Margaretville
Just those deer, the snow,
The trees, the sun,
The mountain, and me.
Hunting or fishing – which is better?
That is what I am thinking about!
In business many hunt for customers;
Some men prefer casting net to catch fish!
Even for poets the position is the same
In poetry websites to catch readers!
Some lay wise traps to catch readers!
I use fishing rod with a needle and bait
To catch readers who can understand!
Whether the rank is high or low it is
Immaterial but the true comment is!
Hunting readers to comment and rank
Or fishing readers to comment and rank
Are not really going to enhance one’s status;
For, voluntary comments are indeed valuable!
Poets are jealous to appreciate others’ merit
But some poets raise the status of others!
So, letters to such poets increase sans end!
This is the status of poetry websites now!
So, it is left to you to hunt or fish or lay trap
As you wish to catch readers for rank, etc.!
I walk with a guide
(that’s what they call
a tracker now days)
and leave on soft red brown sand
number nine boot tracks
(somewhere between
Potgietersrus and Ellisras)
and there are two other hunters
walking along
each carrying his own
point three seven five,
the guide has an old
ELG twelve bore shotgun
and with my Sony Cyber Shot
every thing is enhanced
more than ten times
and before any shots ring out
there are wild bucks
falling under my scope.
I am hunting inside my soul
For the hidden treasures
That had been kept
There for a long time
And now I figured
Out that some of the treasures
Must go
Because I don't use them
As much as I would love to
And they are taking space
Inside of my heart
Hunting season is coming up
And deer is your main prey
Wear bright colors, so you wont get stuck
Taking your life away
When sitting in a tree stand
Or walking along with others
Make sure what you see is not a man
Waiting for deer in a gutter
Safety is the most important thing
When hunting with a bow or a gun
A terrible tragedy they can bring
When using them just for fun
So take my advise and play it safe
Hunting is not a game
Take your time, it's not a race
The results will still be the same
'Where 'she said
'does love live? '
Is it in your eyes?
I have looked there;
I look there every day.
Is it in your heart?
I know it beats
but some days
it is so faint;
In your mind?
That is opaque.
Tell me where does your love for me live?
I said
'I am taught
that deeds and providing
are where my love shows;
in being sure everyone here is safe
and that there is enough
for what everyone wants or needs.
I am not good at flowery words;
at affection even.
I wish I were better.
for you.
What about you?
Where does your love for me live? '
She said
'It is everywhere with me
in my heart, it pounds you know still
for you.
In the house.
I place my love in flower vases
in the vacuum cleaner;
in dinner
in the wine served.
In my thoughts and emotions.
I remember everything
we've ever done.
He said:
I wish I had that ability you have.
I think I am made for the hunt.
But now
there is no hunt.
Hunting poetry,
Testing the strength of the words
In the wood of thoughts.
Gun hunting season opens tomorrow morning
my husband is gathering his hunting gear around.
He'll be getting up really early in the morning
way before the break of dawn.
He's trying his special orange hunting cap on
so that he's not mistaken for a deer.
Us wives always worry about that you know
it is one of a hunter's wifes greatest fears.
The weather is suppose to be very cold and rainy
my husband says that is the best weather for hunting in.
Because the deer are on the move much more
then when it's warmer like some recent days have been.
I will say a prayer to our Lord above
asking that He protect all hunters, on this opening day.
And that they all come back with that Buck or Doe their after
and no bullets from their guns shot go astray.
hunting season
Every Saturdays and Sunday there is a war going on in the woods,
man against birds and rabbits. On my lemon tree sparrows and
hawks sit and wait for Monday. In my garden rabbits seek shelter
from shoot gun pellets, eat my flowers and dig holes. My dog is
desperate its instinct is to go out and kill them. Killing for sport, is
like bullfighting without spectators, grown men, sneaking about
amongst trees slaughtering the innocent; not unlike the Settlers
behaviour against the Palestinian olive pickers and goat herders.
Monday morning I shovel wheel barrow’s full of bird droppings
from the ground that is also full of holes. Something got to be done
with these awful animals, why do they not move to neighbouring
woods and seek shelter there?
As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
Once, twice, and again!
And a doe leaped up -- and a doe leaped up
From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup.
This I, scouting alone, beheld,
Once, twice, and again!
As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
Once, twice, and again!
And a wolf stole back -- and a wolf stole back
To carry the word to the waiting Pack;
And we sought and we found and we bayed on his track
Once, twice, and again!
As the dawn was breaking the Wolf-pack yelled
Once, twice, and again!
Feet in the jungle that leave no mark!
Eyes that can see in the dark -- the dark!
Tongue -- give tongue to it! Hark! O Hark!
Once, twice, and again!
His spots are the joy of the Leopard: his horns are the Buffalo's pride --
Be clean, for the strength of the hunter is known by the gloss of his hide.
If ye find that the Bullock can toss you, or the heavy-browed Sambhur can gore;
Ye need not stop work to inform us; we knew it ten seasons before.
Oppress not the cubs of the stranger, but hail them as Sister and Brother,
For though they are little and fubsy, it may be the Bear is their mother.
"There is none like to me!" says the Cub in the pride of his earliest kill;
But the Jungle is large and the Cub he is small. Let him think and be still.
Round us rolls the heather's sheen,
Heather's sheen,
'Neath the falcon of our queen,
Of our queen.
Birch and cherry balm exhale,
Balm exhale,
Loud our horns the cliffs assail,
Cliffs assail.
Light the air and clear the sky,
Clear the sky,-
Hurrah! onward, she is nigh,
She is nigh.
Hunt ye joy with every breath,
Every breath,
Hunt it to the stream of death,
Stream of death!
Tek a cool night, good an' cleah,
Skiff o' snow upon de groun';
Jes' 'bout fall-time o' de yeah
W'en de leaves is dry an brown;
Tek a dog an' tek a axe,
Tek a lantu'n in yo' han',
Step light whah de switches cracks,
Fu' dey 's huntin' in de lan'.
Down thoo de valleys an' ovah de hills,
Into de woods whah de 'simmon-tree grows,
Wakin' an' skeerin' de po' whippo'wills,
Huntin' fu' coon an' fu' 'possum we goes.
Blow dat ho'n dah loud an' strong,
Call de dogs an' da'kies neah;
Mek its music cleah an' long,
So de folks at home kin hyeah.
Blow it twell de hills an' trees
Sen's de echoes tumblin' back;
Blow it twell de back'ard breeze
Tells de folks we 's on de track.
Coons is a-ramblin' an' 'possums is out;
Look at dat dog; you could set on his tail!
Watch him now--steady,--min'--what you 's about,
Bless me, dat animal's got on de trail!
Listen to him ba'kin now!
Dat means bus'ness, sho 's you bo'n;
Ef he's struck de scent I 'low
Dat ere 'possum's sholy gone.
Knowed dat dog fu' fo'teen yeahs,
An' I nevah seed him fail
Wen he sot dem flappin' eahs
An' went off upon a trail.
Run, Mistah 'Possum, an' run, Mistah Coon,
No place is safe fu' yo' ramblin' to-night;
Mas' gin' de lantu'n an' God gin de moon,
An' a long hunt gins a good appetite.
Look hyeah, folks, you hyeah dat change?
Dat ba'k is sha'per dan de res'.
Dat ere soun' ain't nothin' strange,--
Dat dog's talked his level bes'.
Somep'n' 's treed, I know de soun'.
Dah now,--wha 'd I tell you? see!
Dat ere dog done run him down;
Come hyeah, he'p cut down dis tree.
Ah, Mistah 'Possum, we got you at las'--
Need n't play daid, laying dah on de groun';
Fros' an' de 'simmons has made you grow fas',--
Won't he be fine when he's roasted up brown!
Ye darksome Woods where Echo dwells,
Where every bud with freedom swells
To meet the glorious day:
The morning breaks; again rejoice;
And with old Ringwood's well-known voice
Bid tuneful Echo play.
We come, ye Groves, ye Hills, we come:
The vagrant Fox shall hear: his doom,
And dread our jovial train.
The shrill Horn sounds, the courser flies,
While every Sportsman joyful cries,
'There's Ringwood's voice again.'
Ye Meadows, hail the coming throng;
Ye peaceful Streams that wind along,
Repeat the Hark-away:
Far o'er the Downs, ye Gales that sweep,
The daring Oak that crowns the steep,
The roaring peal convey.
The chiming notes of chearful Hounds,
Hark! how the hollow Dale resounds;
The sunny Hills how gay.
But where's the note, brave Dog, like thine?
Then urge the Steed, the chorus join,
'Tis Ringwood leads the way.
Waken, lords and ladies gay,
On the mountain dawns the day;
All the jolly chase is here
With hawk and horse and hunting-spear,
Hounds are in their couples yelling,
Hawks are whistling, horns are knelling,
Merrily, merrily mingle they
Waken, lords and ladies gay.
Waken, lords and ladies gay,
The mist has left the mountain gray;
Springlets in the dawn are steaming,
Diamonds on the brake are gleaming;
And foresters have busy been
To track the buck in thicket green;
Now we come to chant our lay,
Waken, lords and ladies gay.
Waken, lords and ladies gay,
To the greenwood haste away;
We can show you where he lies,
Fleet of foot and tall of size;
We can show the marks he made
When 'gainst the oak his antlers fray'd;
You shall see him brought to bay
Waken, lords and ladies gay.
Louder, louder chant the lay,
Waken, lords and ladies gay!
Tell them youth and mirth and glee
Run a course as well as we;
Time, stern huntsman! who can balk,
Staunch as hound and fleet as hawk:
Think of this, and rise with day,
Gentle lords and ladies gay!
Hunting The Light
Travelling down the sewers
of this ungrateful soul of mine
as the sickness becomes a squatter
taken over my body and mind.
The torment that's unleashed
upon the unsuspecting visitors
who just happen by chance
to cross paths.
Thrown into the abyss
without a care or second glance
discarded, rendered useless
left to die, a lonely death.
As vibrant colours dissipates
as their sparkles are dying out
life has lost its meaning
only inner struggles remain.
But,
I'm sure I heard it mentioned once
of a light that still remains
a tunnel with an exit light
I'll search for, not in vain
to find this elusive tunnel.
Where life begins again.
Hunting for the light of life.
by
Annette Aitken
2017
people make
trouble for
themselves...
the person
who makes
trouble
is often looking
to make trouble
hunting trouble...
just as the thief
is constantly hunting
victims hunting
objects to steal...
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
W HEN misty, misty mornings come,
When wild geese low are flying,
And down along the reedy marsh
The mallard drakes are crying;
When cattle leave the highest hills,
And blackbirds flock together --
By all these signs the hunter knows
Has come good hunting weather.
That was the age of nineteen,
The age for searching for the queen.
Many were spotted on line,
None of whom was to my design.
I sighted her on the bank
Of a tank on a dusky night,
With her two sisters to flank.
It was a temple festive feat.
She was fatter than the sisters.
She was darker than the sisters.
She only pulled me to her side
By her freshness and youngness.
Can I pull her? – A challenge,
Her formidability threw to me
To test how best I can stand
To win over a woman’s hand.
If beaten and beaten, even
A rock can be well shaken.
By repeatedly seen, the rock
Was moved. I was in peak.
I found her home and family,
Which was on my way luckily.
Her clan was just one step away.
That was the block in my way.
I won her vision every morning
And evening, from her balcony.
I won her consent in picking
My letters, thrown from bicycle.
I won her presence in a tryst
That she planned in a lone house.
With her maid, she gave audience
And urged me for an alliance.
She was there so near me as fire.
I stood there bare as tinder.
No touch, no kiss, I was perfect.
I wanted to earn her respect.
Badly I buried my lust
To stand high in her estimate.
Sadly I hurried to exit
As a noble, missing a feast.
Her stepbrother was my teacher,
A smooth friendly character.
He took my proposal as dry
And sent me out high and dry.
I can have her by inter caste;
Her child will then suffer great
To choose her a suitable mate.
Therefore, he was against my act.
She gave pose from balcony.
I got it from down below, cycling.
Twice a day, there were many.
To our love there was no blow.
Later her brother came down
From his stand and made it known
That I could get her hand
If my parents gave their hand.
That stand he should have taken
By the pressure she had given.
A clear indication of her,
That she was keen for our tie.
I averred to my revered mother
In alluded way. No use.
With no job, no money, to muster
Strength is in vain. I stood aloof.
Days rolled. There was no courage.
Study was over. Time parted us.
I cursed my cowardliness.
All ended in tragic senses.
I lost my love without guts.
I lost a bird without a hunt.
A tragic note then I wrote-
All are well that began well.
No more love had blossomed.
By now, forty years rolled.
Where is she? Whether she lives? .
To see her once is my bliss.
29.05.2001, dBerh
Well he’s gone and I gotta tell ya
It seems eerie here alone
I kind of miss his presence
After all, I’m not made of stone
The sound of his voice ramblin’
Isn’t droning in my ear
Subjects that I don’t care about
That he feels he needs to share
I’m kind of missing him, gotta say
Like the sight of summer flowers
But I guess I can’t miss him too much
For he’s been gone for just two hours!
I'm going hunting with my dad.
And trust me it's not bad.
I'm hunting rabbits, and squirrels, and stuff.
I might even hunt in a bluff.
This weekend will be so fun.
Just a father and his son.
I Hunted Words Of Skill
To Make Your Insides Feel
Joy and Peace and Love
From Fantasy To Real
I Sought To Express
Genuine Care and Gentleness
Tho’ It Takes Stones To Build
Bridge Of Togetherness
Beneath A Darkened Sky
Sometimes It Seemed Pages Would Cry
But By Moonlight, They Would Rise
and Laugh With Skies
As Each Star Would Twinkle Yonder
And Wink Down In Knowing Wonder
Giving Words To Ponder
Of A PoemHunter …
I Looked For Words To Speak
Each One Sweetly Bold, Unique
To Shoot The Soul’s Mystique
A Bow’s Arrow Feat
… and I Looked For Poems
With Power In Their Storms
Words That Warm Or Warn
Or Rock In Hugging Arms
I Hunted Words Of Skill
Thoughts To Make Us Feel
That Love Is Real
And So Is  GOD’s  Will …
… and Thank You PoemHunter
For The Thrill …
Written & ©:  10/16/10
By:    The  MoonBee
He is hungry as a shark
Always looking for a lark
I don't mean the bird
Something's hidden in this word
Trying to give his life a spark
Σαν καρχαρίας πώς πεινά
Και τον μπελά του κυνηγά
Θήραμα και τούτο
Όλο κουκούτσι φρούτο
Πώς θα λύσει τη θηλιά;
I am bereft of anger
that has passed through rage
For the empty humans that
Cannot share or partake in this one Earth
They have removed themselves
from our greater ken
and the union of all life
They can no longer return to us,
not due to being out laws
But due to being outliers
from the sum of our potential
and better nature to know right from wrong
and respect inherently
the dignity of all life.
A Great Inquiso Censo Decree
Left only ends removed  the buts
Resting on a Ph Degree
A dragonfly rescued
from the gossamer
and flew away.........................
Then a small insect entangled
and struggled?
All of a sudden
Spider grabbed
and I was helpless?
['While stubbornness shelters one from reality, open-mindedness reveals all of life's truths.']-Unknown
nimal dunuhinga
job hunting...
a yellow leaf drifts
from branch to branch
Editor's First Choice Haiku, "fall trees" haiku thread
Sketchbook,5: 5, September/October 2010
Job hunting
The interviews are on |She is unadorned
Whirling fans creak.
Her red cotton saree |A black bag to carry
Yellow walls stare.
She does look chic |No make-up, lipstick
On her young face.
But kajal in her eye | Clouds in her sky
Clock pounds beats.
Back home aging father|Young siblings gather
In traffic-jammed space
The job seals her fate|Silent sighs escape
Her turn coming next
In vacuum of her heart | There is a tiny spark
She must put it out.
-	Bharati..
His spots are the joy of the Leopard: his horns are the Buffalo’s pride.
Be clean, for the strength of the hunter is known by the gloss of his hide.
If ye find that the bullock can toss you, or the heavy-browed Sambhur can gore;
Ye need not stop work to inform us: we knew it ten seasons before.
Oppress not the cubs of the stranger, but hail them as Sister and Brother,
For though they are little and fubsy, it may be the Bear is their mother.
‘There is none like to me !’ says the Cub in the pride of his earliest kill;
But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small. Let him think and be still.
(limerick) A-Hunting We Will Go
As a foot soldier tanks were my bane
Run and hide. Here comes nothing but pain
A 'bazooka' produce...
Instruct in its use ...
Now let's try that encounter AGAIN
As a kid did you e'er share this caper?
We would eagerly look in the paper
For pics of Saint Nick
From November... on ... quick!
Best spots were the ads in the paper
(careful tallies were kept right up til Xmas)
"I am sure there's an opening for me
So ambitious andclever... agree? "
"Absolutely, my friend
And I do recommend
You not slam it while exiting. (shee)"
Nudes -- stark and glistening,
Yelling in lurid glee. Grinning faces
And raging limbs
Whirl over the floor one fire.
For a shirt verminously busy
Yon soldier tore from his throat, with oaths
Godhead might shrink at, but not the lice.
And soon the shirt was aflare
Over the candle he'd lit while we lay.
Then we all sprang up and stript
To hunt the verminous brood.
Soon like a demons' pantomine
The place was raging.
See the silhouettes agape,
See the glibbering shadows
Mixed with the battled arms on the wall.
See gargantuan hooked fingers
Pluck in supreme flesh
To smutch supreme littleness.
See the merry limbs in hot Highland fling
Because some wizard vermin
Charmed from the quiet this revel
When our ears were half lulled
By the dark music
Blown from Sleep's trumpet.
Forward! Hark forward's the cry!
One more fence and we're out on the open,
So to us at once, if you want to live near us!
Hark to them, ride to them, beauties! as on they go,
Leaping and sweeping away in the vale below!
Cowards and bunglers, whose heart or whose eye is slow,
Find themselves staring alone.
So the great cause flashes by;
Nearer and clearer its purposes open,
While louder and prouder the world-echoes cheer us:
Gentlemen sportsmen, you ought to live up to us,
Lead us, and lift us, and hallo our game to us-
We cannot call the hounds off, and no shame to us-
Don't be left staring alone!
Eversley, 1849.
Chorus.—MY lady's gown, there's gairs upon't,
And gowden flowers sae rare upon't;
But Jenny's jimps and jirkinet,
My lord thinks meikle mair upon't.
My lord a-hunting he is gone,
But hounds or hawks wi' him are nane;
By Colin's cottage lies his game,
If Colin's Jenny be at hame.
My lady's gown, &c.
My lady's white, my lady's red,
And kith and kin o' Cassillis' blude;
But her ten-pund lands o' tocher gude;
Were a' the charms his lordship lo'ed.
My lady's gown, &c.
Out o'er yon muir, out o'er yon moss,
Whare gor-cocks thro' the heather pass,
There wons auld Colin's bonie lass,
A lily in a wilderness.
My lady's gown, &c.
Sae sweetly move her genty limbs,
Like music notes o'lovers' hymns:
The diamond-dew in her een sae blue,
Where laughing love sae wanton swims.
My lady's gown, &c.
My lady's dink, my lady's drest,
The flower and fancy o' the west;
But the lassie than a man lo'es best,
O that's the lass to mak him blest.
My lady's gown, &c.
Best poets are featured
their best poems nurtured
branded as monumental inscribe
by prolific bards posting for archive
The site is poemhunter.com
where everyone is welcome
to share poetry and poems
of various topics or themes
Come one and all
converge now to call
and inspire the world
hunt poems we should
PREFACE
If---and the thing is wildly possible---the charge of writing
nonsense were ever brought against the author of this brief but
instructive poem, it would be based, I feel convinced, on the line
``Then the bowsprit got mixed with the rudder sometimes''
In view of this painful possibility, I will not (as I might) appeal
indignantly to my other writings as a proof that I am incapable of
such a deed: I will not (as I might) point to the strong moral
purpose of this poem itself, to the arithmetical principles so
cautiously inculcated in it, or to its noble teachings in Natural
History---I will take the more prosaic course of simply explaining
how it happened.
The Bellman, who was almost morbidly sensitive about appearances,
used to have the bowsprit unshipped once or twice a week to be
revarnished, and it more than once happened, when the time came for
replacing it, that no one on board could remember which end of the
ship it belonged to. They knew it was not of the slightest use to
appeal to the Bellman about it---he would only refer to his Naval
Code, and read out in pathetic tones Admiralty Instructions which
none of them had ever been able to understand---so it generally ended
in its being fastened on, anyhow, across the rudder. The helmsman
used to stand by with tears in his eyes: he knew it was all wrong,
but alas! Rule 42 of the Code, ``No one shall speak to the Man at the
Helm'', had been completed by the Bellman himself with the words
``and the Man at the Helm shall speak to no one''. So remonstrance
was impossible, and no steering could be done till the next
varnishing day. During these bewildering intervals the ship usually
sailed backwards.
This office was usually undertaken by the Boots, who found in it
a refuge from the Baker's constant complaints about the insufficient
blacking of his three pairs of boots.
As this poem is to some extent connected with the lay of the
Jabberwock, let me take this opportunity of answering a question that
has often been asked me, how to pronounce ``slithy toves''. The
``i'' in ``slithy'' is long, as in ``writhe''; and ``toves'' is
pronounced so as to rhyme with ``groves''. Again, the first ``o'' in
``borogoves'' is pronounced like the ``o'' in ``borrow''. I have
heard people try to give it the sound of the ``o'' in ``worry''.
Such is Human Perversity.
This also seems a fitting occasion to notice the other hard words in
that poem. Humpty-Dumpty's theory, of two meanings packed into one
word like a portmanteau, seems to me the right explanation for all.
For instance, take the two words ``fuming'' and ``furious''. Make up
your mind that you will say both words, but leave it unsettled which
you will say first. Now open your mouth and speak. If your thoughts
incline ever so little towards ``fuming'', you will say
``fuming-furious''; if they turn, by even a hair's breadth, towards
``furious'', you will say ``furious-fuming''; but if you have that
rarest of gifts, a perfectly balanced mind, you will say
``frumious''.
Supposing that, when Pistol uttered the well-known words---
``Under which king, Bezonian? Speak or die!''
Justice Shallow had felt certain that it was either William or
Richard, but had not been able to settle which, so that he could not
possibly say either name before the other, can it be doubted that,
rather than die, he would have gasped out ``Rilchiam!''.
'Lewis Carroll'
Kudos to a failed hunting
The net was laid perfect
No chances for a rabbit to escape
The expertise of an experienced
Hunter and his flesh lust
I waited
And she ran into the trap
My favorite snow white rabbit
“Oh not again” I heard her uttering in dismay
And she wore the gestures of horror and disbelief
Smoke stained lips and teeth
Forming into an loathsome grin
I snorted “I want your flesh”
Caressing the barrel of my favorite gun
“Go eat your deer” spreading her eyes for
An escape she yelled back
“I am tired of vegetables”
Penetrating the gum gaps with toothpick
I replied her quite bored
“You had your share of my flesh…many times…”
I saw her eyes flowing helplessness
“I don’t care…I want I want to taste your tender flesh
And the warmth of your blood”
I aimed my gun at her
A moment’s silence
She leaped and disappeared
Into the large snake hole, I missed
Cussing violent and mad
Caused by an unexpected failure
I wrapped the net neat into its case
And returned home
I ate my deer
I was hungry
I slept snoring
I was tired from hunting and eating
Vegetable.
The sun is dropping down
That orange ball has begun to glow
It won't be very long now
It will be time for the show
The hounds are in the truck
Just waiting to use their noses
As soon as we set them free
There will be all kinds of noises
Now the hounds are on the hunt
Covering all of the woods lands
They have noses thousands more powerfull
Than that of any fellow man
One just struck a track
And now the race has begun
The hounds bark in harmony
Like a song that's never been sung
Now their voices start their changing
As they start locking on the tree
They have rounded up the raccoon
Now it's our turn to go and see
The coon is surely up the tree
We can see its eyes shine bright
As we are standing under the tree
Shining and looking at it with our light
Now it's time to leash the dogs
And load them back in the truck
Coon hunting is quite a thrill
Some people never have this kind of luck
written 10/21/2012 by Norman Hale Jr.
Hunting birds scream that they should
Have seen the fish in the river,
The girls in the stream; but they have to
Settle for rattlesnake and his tambourine;
He chants hissing,
I will make you see what I have seen,
From my belly along the streams
The girls who are chanting to the sailors
They feed, They will never love you,
Never love you- Strange hungry bird,
Though you might look good in the sun,
From side to side, we will make you hear
What we have heard- The women who desire
Your sense of flight but not your love.
Feed us if you will to your children, but you
Are just not enough that thing- Women shall love neither
Of us, laughing on their school bus- but we
Do not desire them. We gave them their first
Knowledge, their first death, their first reason
To orgasm, and for us that is enough- While you
Are just a bird hunting what it can never hope to kill.
With cruel nails, big wings mighty eagle
Is too ferocious a hunting bird
Hunts and hunts facing no trouble
Quick flying, catching expert,
Even hunting human
Has no confusion.
About:
Reza syllabic Verse (Edited, Revised And Additional Version) :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
6 lines poem ─
Syllables meter: 10 in the 1st line,9 in the 2nd,8 in the 3rd,7 in the 4th,
6 in the 5th and 5 in the 6th line (10-9-8-7-6-5) ,
Syllables may be stressed or unstressed.
Rhyme scheme: iambic; ababcc; ababcd; abbacc; aabbcc
The aabbcc will be Heroic Reza syllabic Verse.
A simple refrain of 5th line may be as 6th line; if no refrain,
the 6th line will be an individual one.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │13 May,2018
Inward
Voyage through mind
Trekking along steadfast
All queer passed.Strong will wins at last
His light
You always washed artifacts
at the kitchen sink, your back
to the room, to me, to the mud
you'd tracked in from whatever
neighbor's field had just been plowed.
Spearpoints, birdpoints, awls and leaf-
shaped blades surfaced from the turned earth
as though from beneath some thicker
water you tried to see into.
You never tired, you told me, of the tangible
past you could admire, turn over
and over in your hand—the first
to touch it since the dead one that had
worked the stone. You lined bookshelves
and end tables with them; obsidian,
quartz, flint, they measured the hours you'd spent
with your head down, searching for others,
and also the prized hours of my own
solitude—collected, prized,
saved alongside those artifacts
that had been for so long lost
They run for hours on end each day through grasses gray and brown
Race antelope to a stand still and drag big zebra down
Outlast the speedy wildebeest their victims die in pain
Those amazing cape hunting dogs the hunters of the plain.
They have no sense of right or wrong they must hunt to survive
And their young in den some ten miles off without fresh meat won't thrive
The cape hunting dogs of Africa don't have sins to forgive
They risk their lives amidst flying hooves they kill so they
can live.
The cape hunting dogs of Africa are creatures i admire
They chase big game for miles and miles and never seem to tire
Their team work and companionship they live to serve the pack
They often kill ten miles from home and trot the ten miles back.
The cape hunting dogs of Africa live as true family
They chase big game for miles on end and work in harmony
They have no choice but kill to eat if they don't eat they die
And they risk their lives to serve the pack when hooves of hunted fly.
PoemHunter hunts poems
All daylong go the games,
The members take part in
Only need to be logged in,
Time passes in knowledge
Though none is in college.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |  10/13/2017
Into the rose gold westland, its yellow prairies roll,
World of the bison's freedom, home of the Indian's soul.
Roll out, O seas! in sunlight bathed,
Your plains wind-tossed, and grass enswathed.
Farther than vision ranges, farther than eagles fly,
Stretches the land of beauty, arches the perfect sky,
Hemm'd through the purple mists afar
By peaks that gleam like star on star.
Fringing the prairie billows, fretting horizon's line,
Darkly green are slumb'ring wildernesses of pine,
Sleeping until the zephyrs throng
To kiss their silence into song.
Whispers freighted with odour swinging into the air,
Russet needles as censers swing to an altar, where
The angels' songs are less divine
Than duo sung twixt breeze and pine.
Laughing into the forest, dimples a mountain stream,
Pure as the airs above it, soft as a summer dream,
O! Lethean spring thou'rt only found
Within this ideal hunting ground.
Surely the great Hereafter cannot be more than this,
Surely we'll see that country after Time's farewell kiss.
Who would his lovely faith condole?
Who envies not the Red-skin's soul,
Sailing into the cloud land, sailing into the sun,
Into the crimson portals ajar when life is done?
O! dear dead race, my spirit too
Would fain sail westward unto you.
SOUND not the Horn!--the guarded relic keep:
A faithful sharer of its master's sleep:
His life it gladden'd--to his life belong'd,--
Pause--ere thy lip the royal dead hath wrong'd.
Its weary weight but mocks thy feeble hand;
Its desolate note, the shrine wherein we stand.
Not such the sound it gave in days of yore,
When that rich belt a monarch's bosom wore,--
Not such the sound! Far over hill and dell
It waked the echoes with triumphant swell;
Heard midst the rushing of the torrent's fall,
From castled crag to roofless ruin'd hall,
Down the ravine's precipitous descent,
Thro' the wild forest's rustling boughs it went,
Upon the lake's blue bosom linger'd fond,
And faintly answer'd from the hills beyond:
Pause!--the free winds that joyous blast have borne:--
Dead is the hunter!--silent be the horn!
Sound not the horn! Bethink thee of the day
When to the chase an Emperor led the way;
In all the pride of manhood's noblest prime,
Untamed by sorrow, and untired by time,
Life's pulses throbbing in his eager breast,
Glad, active, vigorous,--who is now at rest:--
How he gazed round him with his eagle eye,
Leapt the dark rocks that frown against the sky,
Grasp'd the long spear, and curb'd the panting steed
(Whose fine nerves quiver with his headlong speed),
At the wild cry of danger smiled in scorn,
And firmly sounded that re-echoing horn!
Ah! let no touch the ivory tube profane
Which drank the breath of living Charlemagne;
Let not like blast by meaner lips be blown,
But by the hunter's side the horn lay down!
Or, following to his palace, dream we now
Not of the hunter's strength, or forest bough,
But woman's love! HER offering this, perchance,--
This, granted to each stranger's casual glance,
This, gazed upon with coldly curious eyes,
Was giv'n with blushes, and received with sighs!
We see her not;--no mournful angel stands
To guard her love-gift from our careless hands;
But fancy brings a vision to our view--
A woman's form, the trusted and the true:
The strong to suffer, tho' so weak to dare
Patient to watch thro' many a day of care,
Devoted, anxious, generous, void of guile,
And with her whole heart's welcome in her smile;
Even such I see! Her maidens, too, are there,
And wake, with chorus sweet, some native air;
But tho' her proud heart holds her country dear,
And tho' she loves those happy songs to hear,
She bids the tale be hush'd, the harp be still,
For one faint blast that dies along the hill.
Up, up, she springs; her young head backward thrown;
'He comes! my hunter comes!--Mine own--mine own!'
She loves, and she is loved--her gift is worn--
'Tis fancy, all!--And yet--lay down the horn!
Love--life--what are ye?--since to love and live
No surer record to our times can give!
Low lies the hero now, whose spoken name
Could fire with glory, or with love inflame;
Low lies the arm of might, the form of pride,
And dim tradition dreameth by his side.
Desolate stand those painted palace-halls,
And gradual ruin mines the massy walls,
Where frank hearts greeted many a welcome guest,
And loudly rang the beaker and the jest;--
While here, within this chapel's narrow bound,
Whose frozen silence startles to the sound
Of stranger voices ringing thro' the air,
Of faintly echoes many a humble prayer;
Here, where the window, narrow arch'd, and high,
With jealous bars shuts out the free blue sky,--
Where glimmers down, with various-painted ray,
A prison'd portion of God's glorious day,--
Where never comes the breezy breath of morn,
Here, mighty hunter, feebly wakes thy horn!
Full of wrath was Hiawatha
When he came into the village,
Found the people in confusion,
Heard of all the misdemeanors,
All the malice and the mischief,
Of the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis.
Hard his breath came through his nostrils,
Through his teeth he buzzed and muttered
Words of anger and resentment,
Hot and humming, like a hornet.
"I will slay this Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Slay this mischief-maker!" said he.
"Not so long and wide the world is,
Not so rude and rough the way is,
That my wrath shall not attain him,
That my vengeance shall not reach him!"
Then in swift pursuit departed
Hiawatha and the hunters
On the trail of Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Through the forest, where he passed it,
To the headlands where he rested;
But they found not Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Only in the trampled grasses,
In the whortleberry-bushes,
Found the couch where he had rested,
Found the impress of his body.
From the lowlands far beneath them,
From the Muskoday, the meadow,
Pau-Puk-Keewis, turning backward,
Made a gesture of defiance,
Made a gesture of derision;
And aloud cried Hiawatha,
From the summit of the mountains:
"Not so long and wide the world is,
Not so rude and rough the way is,
But my wrath shall overtake you,
And my vengeance shall attain you!"
Over rock and over river,
Through bush, and brake, and forest,
Ran the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis;
Like an antelope he bounded,
Till he came unto a streamlet
In the middle of the forest,
To a streamlet still and tranquil,
That had overflowed its margin,
To a dam made by the beavers,
To a pond of quiet water,
Where knee-deep the trees were standing,
Where the water lilies floated,
Where the rushes waved and whispered.
On the dam stood Pau-Puk-Keewis,
On the dam of trunks and branches,
Through whose chinks the water spouted,
O'er whose summit flowed the streamlet.
From the bottom rose the beaver,
Looked with two great eyes of wonder,
Eyes that seemed to ask a question,
At the stranger, Pau-Puk-Keewis.
On the dam stood Pau-Puk-Keewis,
O'er his ankles flowed the streamlet,
Flowed the bright and silvery water,
And he spake unto the beaver,
With a smile he spake in this wise:
"O my friend Ahmeek, the beaver,
Cool and pleasant Is the water;
Let me dive into the water,
Let me rest there in your lodges;
Change me, too, into a beaver!"
Cautiously replied the beaver,
With reserve he thus made answer:
"Let me first consult the others,
Let me ask the other beavers."
Down he sank into the water,
Heavily sank he, as a stone sinks,
Down among the leaves and branches,
Brown and matted at the bottom.
On the dam stood Pau-Puk-Keewis,
O'er his ankles flowed the streamlet,
Spouted through the chinks below him,
Dashed upon the stones beneath him,
Spread serene and calm before him,
And the sunshine and the shadows
Fell in flecks and gleams upon him,
Fell in little shining patches,
Through the waving, rustling branches.
From the bottom rose the beavers,
Silently above the surface
Rose one head and then another,
Till the pond seemed full of beavers,
Full of black and shining faces.
To the beavers Pau-Puk-Keewis
Spake entreating, said in this wise:
"Very pleasant Is your dwelling,
O my friends! and safe from danger;
Can you not, with all your cunning,
All your wisdom and contrivance,
Change me, too, into a beaver?"
"Yes!" replied Ahmeek, the beaver,
He the King of all the beavers,
"Let yourself slide down among us,
Down into the tranquil water."
Down into the pond among them
Silently sank Pau-Puk-Keewis;
Black became his shirt of deer-skin,
Black his moccasins and leggings,
In a broad black tail behind him
Spread his fox-tails and his fringes;
He was changed into a beaver.
"Make me large," said Pau-Puk-Keewis,
"Make me large and make me larger,
Larger than the other beavers."
"Yes," the beaver chief responded,
"When our lodge below you enter,
In our wigwam we will make you
Ten times larger than the others."
Thus into the clear, brown water
Silently sank Pau-Puk-Keewis:
Found the bottom covered over
With the trunks of trees and branches,
Hoards of food against the winter,
Piles and heaps against the famine;
Found the lodge with arching doorway,
Leading into spacious chambers.
Here they made him large and larger,
Made him largest of the beavers,
Ten times larger than the others.
"You shall be our ruler," said they;
"Chief and King of all the beavers."
But not long had Pau-Puk-Keewis
Sat in state among the beavers,
When there came a voice, of warning
From the watchman at his station
In the water-flags and lilies,
Saying, "Here Is Hiawatha!
Hiawatha with his hunters!"
Then they heard a cry above them,
Heard a shouting and a tramping,
Heard a crashing and a rushing,
And the water round and o'er them
Sank and sucked away in eddies,
And they knew their dam was broken.
On the lodge's roof the hunters
Leaped, and broke it all asunder;
Streamed the sunshine through the crevice,
Sprang the beavers through the doorway,
Hid themselves in deeper water,
In the channel of the streamlet;
But the mighty Pau-Puk-Keewis
Could not pass beneath the doorway;
He was puffed with pride and feeding,
He was swollen like a bladder.
Through the roof looked Hiawatha,
Cried aloud, "O Pau-Puk-Keewis
Vain are all your craft and cunning,
Vain your manifold disguises!
Well I know you, Pau-Puk-Keewis!"
With their clubs they beat and bruised him,
Beat to death poor Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Pounded him as maize is pounded,
Till his skull was crushed to pieces.
Six tall hunters, lithe and limber,
Bore him home on poles and branches,
Bore the body of the beaver;
But the ghost, the Jeebi in him,
Thought and felt as Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Still lived on as Pau-Puk-Keewis.
And it fluttered, strove, and struggled,
Waving hither, waving thither,
As the curtains of a wigwam
Struggle with their thongs of deer-skin,
When the wintry wind is blowing;
Till it drew itself together,
Till it rose up from the body,
Till it took the form and features
Of the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis
Vanishing into the forest.
But the wary Hiawatha
Saw the figure ere it vanished,
Saw the form of Pau-Puk-Keewis
Glide into the soft blue shadow
Of the pine-trees of the forest;
Toward the squares of white beyond it,
Toward an opening in the forest.
Like a wind it rushed and panted,
Bending all the boughs before it,
And behind it, as the rain comes,
Came the steps of Hiawatha.
To a lake with many islands
Came the breathless Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Where among the water-lilies
Pishnekuh, the brant, were sailing;
Through the tufts of rushes floating,
Steering through the reedy Islands.
Now their broad black beaks they lifted,
Now they plunged beneath the water,
Now they darkened in the shadow,
Now they brightened in the sunshine.
"Pishnekuh!" cried Pau-Puk-Keewis,
"Pishnekuh! my brothers!" said he,
"Change me to a brant with plumage,
With a shining neck and feathers,
Make me large, and make me larger,
Ten times larger than the others."
Straightway to a brant they changed him,
With two huge and dusky pinions,
With a bosom smooth and rounded,
With a bill like two great paddles,
Made him larger than the others,
Ten times larger than the largest,
Just as, shouting from the forest,
On the shore stood Hiawatha.
Up they rose with cry and clamor,
With a whir and beat of pinions,
Rose up from the reedy Islands,
From the water-flags and lilies.
And they said to Pau-Puk-Keewis:
"In your flying, look not downward,
Take good heed and look not downward,
Lest some strange mischance should happen,
Lest some great mishap befall you!"
Fast and far they fled to northward,
Fast and far through mist and sunshine,
Fed among the moors and fen-lands,
Slept among the reeds and rushes.
On the morrow as they journeyed,
Buoyed and lifted by the South-wind,
Wafted onward by the South-wind,
Blowing fresh and strong behind them,
Rose a sound of human voices,
Rose a clamor from beneath them,
From the lodges of a village,
From the people miles beneath them.
For the people of the village
Saw the flock of brant with wonder,
Saw the wings of Pau-Puk-Keewis
Flapping far up in the ether,
Broader than two doorway curtains.
Pau-Puk-Keewis heard the shouting,
Knew the voice of Hiawatha,
Knew the outcry of Iagoo,
And, forgetful of the warning,
Drew his neck in, and looked downward,
And the wind that blew behind him
Caught his mighty fan of feathers,
Sent him wheeling, whirling downward!
All in vain did Pau-Puk-Keewis
Struggle to regain his balance!
Whirling round and round and downward,
He beheld in turn the village
And in turn the flock above him,
Saw the village coming nearer,
And the flock receding farther,
Heard the voices growing louder,
Heard the shouting and the laughter;
Saw no more the flocks above him,
Only saw the earth beneath him;
Dead out of the empty heaven,
Dead among the shouting people,
With a heavy sound and sullen,
Fell the brant with broken pinions.
But his soul, his ghost, his shadow,
Still survived as Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Took again the form and features
Of the handsome Yenadizze,
And again went rushing onward,
Followed fast by Hiawatha,
Crying: "Not so wide the world is,
Not so long and rough the way Is,
But my wrath shall overtake you,
But my vengeance shall attain you!"
And so near he came, so near him,
That his hand was stretched to seize him,
His right hand to seize and hold him,
When the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis
Whirled and spun about in circles,
Fanned the air into a whirlwind,
Danced the dust and leaves about him,
And amid the whirling eddies
Sprang into a hollow oak-tree,
Changed himself into a serpent,
Gliding out through root and rubbish.
With his right hand Hiawatha
Smote amain the hollow oak-tree,
Rent it into shreds and splinters,
Left it lying there in fragments.
But in vain; for Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Once again in human figure,
Full in sight ran on before him,
Sped away in gust and whirlwind,
On the shores of Gitche Gumee,
Westward by the Big-Sea-Water,
Came unto the rocky headlands,
To the Pictured Rocks of sandstone,
Looking over lake and landscape.
And the Old Man of the Mountain,
He the Manito of Mountains,
Opened wide his rocky doorways,
Opened wide his deep abysses,
Giving Pau-Puk-Keewis shelter
In his caverns dark and dreary,
Bidding Pau-Puk-Keewis welcome
To his gloomy lodge of sandstone.
There without stood Hiawatha,
Found the doorways closed against him,
With his mittens, Minjekahwun,
Smote great caverns in the sandstone,
Cried aloud in tones of thunder,
"Open! I am Hiawatha!"
But the Old Man of the Mountain
Opened not, and made no answer
From the silent crags of sandstone,
From the gloomy rock abysses.
Then he raised his hands to heaven,
Called imploring on the tempest,
Called Waywassimo, the lightning,
And the thunder, Annemeekee;
And they came with night and darkness,
Sweeping down the Big-Sea-Water
From the distant Thunder Mountains;
And the trembling Pau-Puk-Keewis
Heard the footsteps of the thunder,
Saw the red eyes of the lightning,
Was afraid, and crouched and trembled.
Then Waywassimo, the lightning,
Smote the doorways of the caverns,
With his war-club smote the doorways,
Smote the jutting crags of sandstone,
And the thunder, Annemeekee,
Shouted down into the caverns,
Saying, "Where is Pau-Puk-Keewis!"
And the crags fell, and beneath them
Dead among the rocky ruins
Lay the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Lay the handsome Yenadizze,
Slain in his own human figure.
Ended were his wild adventures,
Ended were his tricks and gambols,
Ended all his craft and cunning,
Ended all his mischief-making,
All his gambling and his dancing,
All his wooing of the maidens.
Then the noble Hiawatha
Took his soul, his ghost, his shadow,
Spake and said: "O Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Never more in human figure
Shall you search for new adventures'
Never more with jest and laughter
Dance the dust and leaves in whirlwinds;
But above there in the heavens
You shall soar and sail in circles;
I will change you to an eagle,
To Keneu, the great war-eagle,
Chief of all the fowls with feathers,
Chief of Hiawatha's chickens."
And the name of Pau-Puk-Keewis
Lingers still among the people,
Lingers still among the singers,
And among the story-tellers;
And in Winter, when the snow-flakes
Whirl in eddies round the lodges,
When the wind in gusty tumult
O'er the smoke-flue pipes and whistles,
"There," they cry, "comes Pau-Puk-Keewis,
He is dancing through the village,
He is gathering in his harvest!"
Fit the First
THE LANDING
'Just the place for a Snark!' the Bellman cried,
As he landed his crew with care;
Supporting each man on the top of the tide
By a finger entwined in his hair.
'Just the place for a Snark! I have said it twice:
That alone should encourage the crew.
Just the place for a Snark! I have said it thrice:
What i tell you three times is true.'
The crew was complete: it included a Boots--
A maker of Bonnets and Hoods--
A Barrister, brought to arrange their disputes--
And a Broker, to value their goods.
A Billiard-maker, whose skill was immense,
Might perhaps have won more than his share--
But a Banker, engaged at enormous expense,
Had the whole of their cash in his care.
There was also a Beaver, that paced on the deck,
Or would sit making lace in the bow:
And had often (the Bellman said) saved them from wreck,
Though none of the sailors knew how.
There was one who was famed for the number of things
He forgot when he entered the ship:
His umbrella, his watch, all his jewels and rings,
And the clothes he had bought for the trip.
He had forty-two boxes, all carefully packed,
With his name painted clearly on each:
But, since he omitted to mention the fact,
They were all left behind on the beach.
The loss of his clothes hardly mattered, because
He had seven coats on when he came,
With three pairs of boots--but the worst of it was,
He had wholly forgotten his name.
He would answer to 'Hi!' or to any loud cry,
Such as 'Fry me!' or 'Fritter my wig!'
To 'What-you-may-call-um!' or 'What-was-his-name!'
But especially 'Thing-um-a-jig!'
While, for those who preferred a more forcible word,
He had different names from these:
His intimate friends called him 'Candle-ends,'
And his enemies 'Toasted-cheese.'
'His form in ungainly--his intellect small--'
(So the Bellman would often remark)
'But his courage is perfect! And that, after all,
Is the thing that one needs with a Snark.'
He would joke with hyenas, returning their stare
With an impudent wag of the head:
And he once went a walk, paw-in-paw, with a bear,
'Just to keep up its spirits,' he said.
He came as a Baker: but owned, when too late--
And it drove the poor Bellman half-mad--
He could only bake Bridecake--for which, I may state,
No materials were to be had.
The last of the crew needs especial remark,
Though he looked an incredible dunce:
He had just one idea--but, that one being 'Snark,'
The good Bellman engaged him at once.
He came as a Butcher: but gravely declared,
When the ship had been sailing a week,
He could only kill Beavers. The Bellman looked scared,
And was almost too frightened to speak:
But at length he explained, in a tremulous tone,
There was only one Beaver on board;
And that was a tame one he had of his own,
Whose death would be deeply deplored.
The Beaver, who happened to hear the remark,
Protested, with tears in its eyes,
That not even the rapture of hunting the Snark
Could atone for that dismal surprise!
It strongly advised that the Butcher should be
Conveyed in a separate ship:
But the Bellman declared that would never agree
With the plans he had made for the trip:
Navigation was always a difficult art,
Though with only one ship and one bell:
And he feared he must really decline, for his part,
Undertaking another as well.
The Beaver's best course was, no doubt, to procure
A second-hand dagger-proof coat--
So the Baker advised it-- and next, to insure
Its life in some Office of note:
This the Banker suggested, and offered for hire
(On moderate terms), or for sale,
Two excellent Policies, one Against Fire,
And one Against Damage From Hail.
Yet still, ever after that sorrowful day,
Whenever the Butcher was by,
The Beaver kept looking the opposite way,
And appeared unaccountably shy.
Fit the Second
THE BELLMAN'S SPEECH
The Bellman himself they all praised to the skies--
Such a carriage, such ease and such grace!
Such solemnity, too! One could see he was wise,
The moment one looked in his face!
He had bought a large map representing the sea,
Without the least vestige of land:
And the crew were much pleased when they found it to be
A map they could all understand.
'What's the good of Mercator's North Poles and Equators,
Tropics, Zones, and Meridian Lines?'
So the Bellman would cry: and the crew would reply
'They are merely conventional signs!
'Other maps are such shapes, with their islands and capes!
But we've got our brave Captain to thank:
(So the crew would protest) 'that he's bought us the best--
A perfect and absolute blank!'
This was charming, no doubt; but they shortly found out
That the Captain they trusted so well
Had only one notion for crossing the ocean,
And that was to tingle his bell.
He was thoughtful and grave--but the orders he gave
Were enough to bewilder a crew.
When he cried 'Steer to starboard, but keep her head larboard!'
What on earth was the helmsman to do?
Then the bowsprit got mixed with the rudder sometimes:
A thing, as the Bellman remarked,
That frequently happens in tropical climes,
When a vessel is, so to speak, 'snarked.'
But the principal failing occurred in the sailing,
And the Bellman, perplexed and distressed,
Said he had hoped, at least, when the wind blew due East,
That the ship would not travel due West!
But the danger was past--they had landed at last,
With their boxes, portmanteaus, and bags:
Yet at first sight the crew were not pleased with the view,
Which consisted to chasms and crags.
The Bellman perceived that their spirits were low,
And repeated in musical tone
Some jokes he had kept for a season of woe--
But the crew would do nothing but groan.
He served out some grog with a liberal hand,
And bade them sit down on the beach:
And they could not but own that their Captain looked grand,
As he stood and delivered his speech.
'Friends, Romans, and countrymen, lend me your ears!'
(They were all of them fond of quotations:
So they drank to his health, and they gave him three cheers,
While he served out additional rations).
'We have sailed many months, we have sailed many weeks,
(Four weeks to the month you may mark),
But never as yet ('tis your Captain who speaks)
Have we caught the least glimpse of a Snark!
'We have sailed many weeks, we have sailed many days,
(Seven days to the week I allow),
But a Snark, on the which we might lovingly gaze,
We have never beheld till now!
'Come, listen, my men, while I tell you again
The five unmistakable marks
By which you may know, wheresoever you go,
The warranted genuine Snarks.
'Let us take them in order. The first is the taste,
Which is meager and hollow, but crisp:
Like a coat that is rather too tight in the waist,
With a flavor of Will-o-the-wisp.
'Its habit of getting up late you'll agree
That it carries too far, when I say
That it frequently breakfasts at five-o'clock tea,
And dines on the following day.
'The third is its slowness in taking a jest.
Should you happen to venture on one,
It will sigh like a thing that is deeply distressed:
And it always looks grave at a pun.
'The fourth is its fondness for bathing-machines,
Which is constantly carries about,
And believes that they add to the beauty of scenes--
A sentiment open to doubt.
'The fifth is ambition. It next will be right
To describe each particular batch:
Distinguishing those that have feathers, and bite,
And those that have whiskers, and scratch.
'For, although common Snarks do no manner of harm,
Yet, I feel it my duty to say,
Some are Boojums--' The Bellman broke off in alarm,
For the Baker had fainted away.
Fit the Third
THE BAKER'S TALE
They roused him with muffins--they roused him with ice--
They roused him with mustard and cress--
They roused him with jam and judicious advice--
They set him conundrums to guess.
When at length he sat up and was able to speak,
His sad story he offered to tell;
And the Bellman cried 'Silence! Not even a shriek!'
And excitedly tingled his bell.
There was silence supreme! Not a shriek, not a scream,
Scarcely even a howl or a groan,
As the man they called 'Ho!' told his story of woe
In an antediluvian tone.
'My father and mother were honest, though poor--'
'Skip all that!' cried the Bellman in haste.
'If it once becomes dark, there's no chance of a Snark--
We have hardly a minute to waste!'
'I skip forty years,' said the Baker, in tears,
'And proceed without further remark
To the day when you took me aboard of your ship
To help you in hunting the Snark.
'A dear uncle of mine (after whom I was named)
Remarked, when I bade him farewell--'
'Oh, skip your dear uncle!' the Bellman exclaimed,
As he angrily tingled his bell.
'He remarked to me then,' said that mildest of men,
' 'If your Snark be a Snark, that is right:
Fetch it home by all means--you may serve it with greens,
And it's handy for striking a light.
' 'You may seek it with thimbles--and seek it with care;
You may hunt it with forks and hope;
You may threaten its life with a railway-share;
You may charm it with smiles and soap--' '
('That's exactly the method,' the Bellman bold
In a hasty parenthesis cried,
'That's exactly the way I have always been told
That the capture of Snarks should be tried!')
' 'But oh, beamish nephew, beware of the day,
If your Snark be a Boojum! For then
You will softly and suddenly vanish away,
And never be met with again!'
'It is this, it is this that oppresses my soul,
When I think of my uncle's last words:
And my heart is like nothing so much as a bowl
Brimming over with quivering curds!
'It is this, it is this--' 'We have had that before!'
The Bellman indignantly said.
And the Baker replied 'Let me say it once more.
It is this, it is this that I dread!
'I engage with the Snark--every night after dark--
In a dreamy delirious fight:
I serve it with greens in those shadowy scenes,
And I use it for striking a light:
'But if ever I meet with a Boojum, that day,
In a moment (of this I am sure),
I shall softly and suddenly vanish away--
And the notion I cannot endure!'
Fit the fourth
THE HUNTING
The Bellman looked uffish, and wrinkled his brow.
'If only you'd spoken before!
It's excessively awkward to mention it now,
With the Snark, so to speak, at the door!
'We should all of us grieve, as you well may believe,
If you never were met with again--
But surely, my man, when the voyage began,
You might have suggested it then?
'It's excessively awkward to mention it now--
As I think I've already remarked.'
And the man they called 'Hi!' replied, with a sigh,
'I informed you the day we embarked.
'You may charge me with murder--or want of sense--
(We are all of us weak at times):
But the slightest approach to a false pretense
Was never among my crimes!
'I said it in Hebrew--I said it in Dutch--
I said it in German and Greek:
But I wholly forgot (and it vexes me much)
That English is what you speak!'
''Tis a pitiful tale,' said the Bellman, whose face
Had grown longer at every word:
'But, now that you've stated the whole of your case,
More debate would be simply absurd.
'The rest of my speech' (he explained to his men)
'You shall hear when I've leisure to speak it.
But the Snark is at hand, let me tell you again!
'Tis your glorious duty to seek it!
'To seek it with thimbles, to seek it with care;
To pursue it with forks and hope;
To threaten its life with a railway-share;
To charm it with smiles and soap!
'For the Snark's a peculiar creature, that won't
Be caught in a commonplace way.
Do all that you know, and try all that you don't:
Not a chance must be wasted to-day!
'For England expects--I forbear to proceed:
'Tis a maxim tremendous, but trite:
And you'd best be unpacking the things that you need
To rig yourselves out for the fight.'
Then the Banker endorsed a blank check (which he crossed),
And changed his loose silver for notes.
The Baker with care combed his whiskers and hair,
And shook the dust out of his coats.
The Boots and the Broker were sharpening a spade--
Each working the grindstone in turn:
But the Beaver went on making lace, and displayed
No interest in the concern:
Though the Barrister tried to appeal to its pride,
And vainly proceeded to cite
A number of cases, in which making laces
Had been proved an infringement of right.
The maker of Bonnets ferociously planned
A novel arrangement of bows:
While the Billiard-marker with quivering hand
Was chalking the tip of his nose.
But the Butcher turned nervous, and dressed himself fine,
With yellow kid gloves and a ruff--
Said he felt it exactly like going to dine,
Which the Bellman declared was all 'stuff.'
'Introduce me, now there's a good fellow,' he said,
'If we happen to meet it together!'
And the Bellman, sagaciously nodding his head,
Said 'That must depend on the weather.'
The Beaver went simply galumphing about,
At seeing the Butcher so shy:
And even the Baker, though stupid and stout,
Made an effort to wink with one eye.
'Be a man!' said the Bellman in wrath, as he heard
The Butcher beginning to sob.
'Should we meet with a Jubjub, that desperate bird,
We shall need all our strength for the job!'
Fit the Fifth
THE BEAVER'S LESSON
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
Then the Butcher contrived an ingenious plan
For making a separate sally;
And fixed on a spot unfrequented by man,
A dismal and desolate valley.
But the very same plan to the Beaver occurred:
It had chosen the very same place:
Yet neither betrayed, by a sign or a word,
The disgust that appeared in his face.
Each thought he was thinking of nothing but 'Snark'
And the glorious work of the day;
And each tried to pretend that he did not remark
That the other was going that way.
But the valley grew narrow and narrower still,
And the evening got darker and colder,
Till (merely from nervousness, not from goodwill)
They marched along shoulder to shoulder.
Then a scream, shrill and high, rent the shuddering sky,
And they knew that some danger was near:
The Beaver turned pale to the tip of its tail,
And even the Butcher felt queer.
He thought of his childhood, left far far behind--
That blissful and innocent state--
The sound so exactly recalled to his mind
A pencil that squeaks on a slate!
''Tis the voice of the Jubjub!' he suddenly cried.
(This man, that they used to call 'Dunce.')
'As the Bellman would tell you,' he added with pride,
'I have uttered that sentiment once.
''Tis the note of the Jubjub! Keep count, I entreat;
You will find I have told it you twice.
'Tis the song of the Jubjub! The proof is complete,
If only I've stated it thrice.'
The Beaver had counted with scrupulous care,
Attending to every word:
But it fairly lost heart, and outgrabe in despair,
When the third repetition occurred.
It felt that, in spite of all possible pains,
It had somehow contrived to lose count,
And the only thing now was to rack its poor brains
By reckoning up the amount.
'Two added to one--if that could but be done,'
It said, 'with one's fingers and thumbs!'
Recollecting with tears how, in earlier years,
It had taken no pains with its sums.
'The thing can be done,' said the Butcher, 'I think.
The thing must be done, I am sure.
The thing shall be done! Bring me paper and ink,
The best there is time to procure.'
The Beaver brought paper,portfolio, pens,
And ink in unfailing supplies:
While strange creepy creatures came out of their dens,
And watched them with wondering eyes.
So engrossed was the Butcher, he heeded them not,
As he wrote with a pen in each hand,
And explained all the while in a popular style
Which the Beaver could well understand.
'Taking Three as the subject to reason about--
A convenient number to state--
We add Seven, and Ten, and then multiply out
By One Thousand diminished by Eight.
'The result we proceed to divide, as you see,
By Nine Hundred and Ninety Two:
Then subtract Seventeen, and the answer must be
Exactly and perfectly true.
'The method employed I would gladly explain,
While I have it so clear in my head,
If I had but the time and you had but the brain--
But much yet remains to be said.
'In one moment I've seen what has hitherto been
Enveloped in absolute mystery,
And without extra charge I will give you at large
A Lesson in Natural History.'
In his genial way he proceeded to say
(Forgetting all laws of propriety,
And that giving instruction, without introduction,
Would have caused quite a thrill in Society),
'As to temper the Jubjub's a desperate bird,
Since it lives in perpetual passion:
Its taste in costume is entirely absurd--
It is ages ahead of the fashion:
'But it knows any friend it has met once before:
It never will look at a bride:
And in charity-meetings it stands at the door,
And collects--though it does not subscribe.
' Its flavor when cooked is more exquisite far
Than mutton, or oysters, or eggs:
(Some think it keeps best in an ivory jar,
And some, in mahogany kegs:)
'You boil it in sawdust: you salt it in glue:
You condense it with locusts and tape:
Still keeping one principal object in view--
To preserve its symmetrical shape.'
The Butcher would gladly have talked till next day,
But he felt that the lesson must end,
And he wept with delight in attempting to say
He considered the Beaver his friend.
While the Beaver confessed, with affectionate looks
More eloquent even than tears,
It had learned in ten minutes far more than all books
Would have taught it in seventy years.
They returned hand-in-hand, and the Bellman, unmanned
(For a moment) with noble emotion,
Said 'This amply repays all the wearisome days
We have spent on the billowy ocean!'
Such friends, as the Beaver and Butcher became,
Have seldom if ever been known;
In winter or summer, 'twas always the same--
You could never meet either alone.
And when quarrels arose--as one frequently finds
Quarrels will, spite of every endeavor--
The song of the Jubjub recurred to their minds,
And cemented their friendship for ever!
Fit the Sixth
THE BARRISTER'S DREAM
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
But the Barrister, weary of proving in vain
That the Beaver's lace-making was wrong,
Fell asleep, and in dreams saw the creature quite plain
That his fancy had dwelt on so long.
He dreamed that he stood in a shadowy Court,
Where the Snark, with a glass in its eye,
Dressed in gown, bands, and wig, was defending a pig
On the charge of deserting its sty.
The Witnesses proved, without error or flaw,
That the sty was deserted when found:
And the Judge kept explaining the state of the law
In a soft under-current of sound.
The indictment had never been clearly expressed,
And it seemed that the Snark had begun,
And had spoken three hours, before any one guessed
What the pig was supposed to have done.
The Jury had each formed a different view
(Long before the indictment was read),
And they all spoke at once, so that none of them knew
One word that the others had said.
'You must know ---' said the Judge: but the Snark exclaimed 'Fudge!'
That statute is obsolete quite!
Let me tell you, my friends, the whole question depends
On an ancient manorial right.
'In the matter of Treason the pig would appear
To have aided, but scarcely abetted:
While the charge of Insolvency fails, it is clear,
If you grant the plea 'never indebted.'
'The fact of Desertion I will not dispute;
But its guilt, as I trust, is removed
(So far as related to the costs of this suit)
By the Alibi which has been proved.
'My poor client's fate now depends on you votes.'
Here the speaker sat down in his place,
And directed the Judge to refer to his notes
And briefly to sum up the case.
But the Judge said he never had summed up before;
So the Snark undertook it instead,
And summed it so well that it came to far more
Than the Witnesses ever had said!
When the verdict was called for, the Jury declined,
As the word was so puzzling to spell;
But they ventured to hope that the Snark wouldn't mind
Undertaking that duty as well.
So the Snark found the verdict, although, as it owned,
It was spent with the toils of the day:
When it said the word 'GUILTY!' the Jury all groaned,
And some of them fainted away.
Then the Snark pronounced sentence, the Judge being quite
Too nervous to utter a word:
When it rose to its feet, there was silence like night,
And the fall of a pin might be heard.
'Transportation for lift' was the sentence it gave,
'And *then* to be fined forty pound.'
The Jury all cheered, though the Judge said he feared
That the phrase was not legally sound.
But their wild exultation was suddenly checked
When the jailer informed them, with tears,
Such a sentence would have not the slightest effect,
As the pig had been dead for some years.
The Judge left the Court, looking deeply disgusted:
But the Snark, though a little aghast,
As the lawyer to whom the defense was entrusted,
Went bellowing on to the last.
Thus the Barrister dreamed, while the bellowing seemed
To grow every moment more clear:
Till he woke to the knell of a furious bell,
Which the Bellman rang close at his ear.
Fit the Seventh
THE BANKER'S FATE
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
And the Banker, inspired with a courage so new
It was matter for general remark,
Rushed madly ahead and was lost to their view
In his zeal to discover the Snark
But while he was seeking with thimbles and care,
A Bandersnatch swiftly drew nigh
And grabbed at the Banker, who shrieked in despair,
For he knew it was useless to fly.
He offered large discount--he offered a check
(Drawn 'to bearer') for seven-pounds-ten:
But the Bandersnatch merely extended its neck
And grabbed at the Banker again.
Without rest or pause--while those frumious jaws
Went savagely snapping around-
He skipped and he hopped, and he floundered and flopped,
Till fainting he fell to the ground.
The Bandersnatch fled as the others appeared
Led on by that fear-stricken yell:
And the Bellman remarked 'It is just as I feared!'
And solemnly tolled on his bell.
He was black in the face, and they scarcely could trace
The least likeness to what he had been:
While so great was his fright that his waistcoat turned white-
A wonderful thing to be seen!
To the horror of all who were present that day.
He uprose in full evening dress,
And with senseless grimaces endeavored to say
What his tongue could no longer express.
Down he sank in a chair--ran his hands through his hair--
And chanted in mimsiest tones
Words whose utter inanity proved his insanity,
While he rattled a couple of bones.
'Leave him here to his fate--it is getting so late!'
The Bellman exclaimed in a fright.
'We have lost half the day. Any further delay,
And we sha'nt catch a Snark before night!'
Fit the Eighth
THE VANISHING
They sought it with thimbles, they sought it with care;
They pursued it with forks and hope;
They threatened its life with a railway-share;
They charmed it with smiles and soap.
They shuddered to think that the chase might fail,
And the Beaver, excited at last,
Went bounding along on the tip of its tail,
For the daylight was nearly past.
'There is Thingumbob shouting!' the Bellman said,
'He is shouting like mad, only hark!
He is waving his hands, he is wagging his head,
He has certainly found a Snark!'
They gazed in delight, while the Butcher exclaimed
'He was always a desperate wag!'
They beheld him--their Baker--their hero unnamed--
On the top of a neighboring crag.
Erect and sublime, for one moment of time.
In the next, that wild figure they saw
(As if stung by a spasm) plunge into a chasm,
While they waited and listened in awe.
'It's a Snark!' was the sound that first came to their ears,
And seemed almost too good to be true.
Then followed a torrent of laughter and cheers:
Then the ominous words 'It's a Boo-'
Then, silence. Some fancied they heard in the air
A weary and wandering sigh
Then sounded like '-jum!' but the others declare
It was only a breeze that went by.
They hunted till darkness came on, but they found
Not a button, or feather, or mark,
By which they could tell that they stood on the ground
Where the Baker had met with the Snark.
In the midst of the word he was trying to say,
In the midst of his laughter and glee,
He had softly and suddenly vanished away---
For the Snark *was* a Boojum, you see.
One weekend a hunting party
comes together on Serfaas Lourens’s farm
and they consist out of family, friends
and town folk:
two teachers, the school principal,
a lawyer, a visiting advocate and magistrate.
The group is dressed in hunting clothes
and with four by four pickups they drive
through the open veldt
past the stream with the blue gum trees.
Guinea fowl and pheasants fly up into the air,
the vehicles brake in a cloud of dust
while hunter after hunter jumps down
with shotgun upon shotgun blasting into the air.
The son of Serfaas Lourens
is shooting with a ELG-12 bore
with red LG cartridges, as if
he wants to teach the older men something
but they find only pieces
of his guinea fowl
and with the trip back
Serfaas Lourens reprimands him
all the way to the homestead
to use the right ammunition.
No more the summer floweret charms,
The leaves will soon be sere,
And Autumn folds his jewelled arms
Around the dying year;
So, ere the waning seasons claim
Our leafless groves awhile,
With golden wine and glowing flame
We â€™ll crown our lonely isle.
Once more the merry voices sound
Within the antlered hall,
And long and loud the baying hounds
Return the hunterâ€™s call;
And through the woods, and oâ€™er the hill,
And far along the bay,
The driverâ€™s horn is sounding shrill,â€”Â­
Up, sportsmen, and away!
No bars of steel or walls of stone
Our little empire bound,
But, circling with his azure zone,
The sea runs foaming round;
The whitening wave, the purpled skies,
The blue and lifted shore,
Braid with their dim and blending dyes
Our wide horizon oâ€™er.
And who will leave the grave debate
That shakes the smoky town,
To rule amid our island-state,
And wear our oak-leaf crown?
And who will be awhile content
To hunt our woodland game,
And leave the vulgar pack that scent
The reeking track of fame?
Ah, who that shares in toils like these
Will sigh not to prolong
Our days beneath the broad-leaved trees,
Our nights of mirth and song?
Then leave the dust of noisy streets,
Ye outlaws of the wood,
And follow through his green retreats
Your noble Robin Hood.
There ought to be a Worldwide ban on whale hunting since all species of whales are becoming rare
And of the justification of killing them in the name of so called science the enlightened and aware
On the sensitive issue of whaling will tell you that this is all lies
That killing in the name of science of marine mammals has always only been a guise
For commercialism at the expense of endangered species the human record on conservation is bad
The number of creatures extinct and facing extinction for to contemplate even too sad
Habitat destruction and killing creatures for greed of money in the World has never been more rife
Yet we do not own the Planet we live on we too are part of it's Natural life,
'Tis true that extinction is forever as dead as the dodo they say
And more creatures becoming extinct or facing extinction each day
For centuries Humans have been trying to destroy Nature we pollute the rivers the Land, sea and sky
But Nature will live on forever 'tis only ourselves we'll destroy
So why not ban the needless slaughter forever of the last great mammals of the sea
We must pay more respect to Nature and protect her creatures the wildborn and the free.
Full of wrath was Hiawatha
When he came into the village,
Found the people in confusion,
Heard of all the misdemeanors,
All the malice and the mischief,
Of the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis.
Hard his breath came through his nostrils,
Through his teeth he buzzed and muttered
Words of anger and resentment,
Hot and humming, like a hornet.
'I will slay this Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Slay this mischief-maker!' said he.
'Not so long and wide the world is,
Not so rude and rough the way is,
That my wrath shall not attain him,
That my vengeance shall not reach him!'
Then in swift pursuit departed
Hiawatha and the hunters
On the trail of Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Through the forest, where he passed it,
To the headlands where he rested;
But they found not Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Only in the trampled grasses,
In the whortleberry-bushes,
Found the couch where he had rested,
Found the impress of his body.
From the lowlands far beneath them,
From the Muskoday, the meadow,
Pau-Puk-Keewis, turning backward,
Made a gesture of defiance,
Made a gesture of derision;
And aloud cried Hiawatha,
From the summit of the mountains:
'Not so long and wide the world is,
Not so rude and rough the way is,
But my wrath shall overtake you,
And my vengeance shall attain you!'
Over rock and over river,
Through bush, and brake, and forest,
Ran the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis;
Like an antelope he bounded,
Till he came unto a streamlet
In the middle of the forest,
To a streamlet still and tranquil,
That had overflowed its margin,
To a dam made by the beavers,
To a pond of quiet water,
Where knee-deep the trees were standing,
Where the water lilies floated,
Where the rushes waved and whispered.
On the dam stood Pau-Puk-Keewis,
On the dam of trunks and branches,
Through whose chinks the water spouted,
O'er whose summit flowed the streamlet.
From the bottom rose the beaver,
Looked with two great eyes of wonder,
Eyes that seemed to ask a question,
At the stranger, Pau-Puk-Keewis.
On the dam stood Pau-Puk-Keewis,
O'er his ankles flowed the streamlet,
Flowed the bright and silvery water,
And he spake unto the beaver,
With a smile he spake in this wise:
'O my friend Ahmeek, the beaver,
Cool and pleasant Is the water;
Let me dive into the water,
Let me rest there in your lodges;
Change me, too, into a beaver!'
Cautiously replied the beaver,
With reserve he thus made answer:
'Let me first consult the others,
Let me ask the other beavers.'
Down he sank into the water,
Heavily sank he, as a stone sinks,
Down among the leaves and branches,
Brown and matted at the bottom.
On the dam stood Pau-Puk-Keewis,
O'er his ankles flowed the streamlet,
Spouted through the chinks below him,
Dashed upon the stones beneath him,
Spread serene and calm before him,
And the sunshine and the shadows
Fell in flecks and gleams upon him,
Fell in little shining patches,
Through the waving, rustling branches.
From the bottom rose the beavers,
Silently above the surface
Rose one head and then another,
Till the pond seemed full of beavers,
Full of black and shining faces.
To the beavers Pau-Puk-Keewis
Spake entreating, said in this wise:
'Very pleasant Is your dwelling,
O my friends! and safe from danger;
Can you not, with all your cunning,
All your wisdom and contrivance,
Change me, too, into a beaver?'
'Yes!' replied Ahmeek, the beaver,
He the King of all the beavers,
'Let yourself slide down among us,
Down into the tranquil water.'
Down into the pond among them
Silently sank Pau-Puk-Keewis;
Black became his shirt of deer-skin,
Black his moccasins and leggings,
In a broad black tail behind him
Spread his fox-tails and his fringes;
He was changed into a beaver.
'Make me large,' said Pau-Puk-Keewis,
'Make me large and make me larger,
Larger than the other beavers.'
'Yes,' the beaver chief responded,
'When our lodge below you enter,
In our wigwam we will make you
Ten times larger than the others.'
Thus into the clear, brown water
Silently sank Pau-Puk-Keewis:
Found the bottom covered over
With the trunks of trees and branches,
Hoards of food against the winter,
Piles and heaps against the famine;
Found the lodge with arching doorway,
Leading into spacious chambers.
Here they made him large and larger,
Made him largest of the beavers,
Ten times larger than the others.
'You shall be our ruler,' said they;
'Chief and King of all the beavers.'
But not long had Pau-Puk-Keewis
Sat in state among the beavers,
When there came a voice, of warning
From the watchman at his station
In the water-flags and lilies,
Saying, 'Here Is Hiawatha!
Hiawatha with his hunters!'
Then they heard a cry above them,
Heard a shouting and a tramping,
Heard a crashing and a rushing,
And the water round and o'er them
Sank and sucked away in eddies,
And they knew their dam was broken.
On the lodge's roof the hunters
Leaped, and broke it all asunder;
Streamed the sunshine through the crevice,
Sprang the beavers through the doorway,
Hid themselves in deeper water,
In the channel of the streamlet;
But the mighty Pau-Puk-Keewis
Could not pass beneath the doorway;
He was puffed with pride and feeding,
He was swollen like a bladder.
Through the roof looked Hiawatha,
Cried aloud, 'O Pau-Puk-Keewis
Vain are all your craft and cunning,
Vain your manifold disguises!
Well I know you, Pau-Puk-Keewis!'
With their clubs they beat and bruised him,
Beat to death poor Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Pounded him as maize is pounded,
Till his skull was crushed to pieces.
Six tall hunters, lithe and limber,
Bore him home on poles and branches,
Bore the body of the beaver;
But the ghost, the Jeebi in him,
Thought and felt as Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Still lived on as Pau-Puk-Keewis.
And it fluttered, strove, and struggled,
Waving hither, waving thither,
As the curtains of a wigwam
Struggle with their thongs of deer-skin,
When the wintry wind is blowing;
Till it drew itself together,
Till it rose up from the body,
Till it took the form and features
Of the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis
Vanishing into the forest.
But the wary Hiawatha
Saw the figure ere it vanished,
Saw the form of Pau-Puk-Keewis
Glide into the soft blue shadow
Of the pine-trees of the forest;
Toward the squares of white beyond it,
Toward an opening in the forest.
Like a wind it rushed and panted,
Bending all the boughs before it,
And behind it, as the rain comes,
Came the steps of Hiawatha.
To a lake with many islands
Came the breathless Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Where among the water-lilies
Pishnekuh, the brant, were sailing;
Through the tufts of rushes floating,
Steering through the reedy Islands.
Now their broad black beaks they lifted,
Now they plunged beneath the water,
Now they darkened in the shadow,
Now they brightened in the sunshine.
'Pishnekuh!' cried Pau-Puk-Keewis,
'Pishnekuh! my brothers!' said he,
'Change me to a brant with plumage,
With a shining neck and feathers,
Make me large, and make me larger,
Ten times larger than the others.'
Straightway to a brant they changed him,
With two huge and dusky pinions,
With a bosom smooth and rounded,
With a bill like two great paddles,
Made him larger than the others,
Ten times larger than the largest,
Just as, shouting from the forest,
On the shore stood Hiawatha.
Up they rose with cry and clamor,
With a whir and beat of pinions,
Rose up from the reedy Islands,
From the water-flags and lilies.
And they said to Pau-Puk-Keewis:
'In your flying, look not downward,
Take good heed and look not downward,
Lest some strange mischance should happen,
Lest some great mishap befall you!'
Fast and far they fled to northward,
Fast and far through mist and sunshine,
Fed among the moors and fen-lands,
Slept among the reeds and rushes.
On the morrow as they journeyed,
Buoyed and lifted by the South-wind,
Wafted onward by the South-wind,
Blowing fresh and strong behind them,
Rose a sound of human voices,
Rose a clamor from beneath them,
From the lodges of a village,
From the people miles beneath them.
For the people of the village
Saw the flock of brant with wonder,
Saw the wings of Pau-Puk-Keewis
Flapping far up in the ether,
Broader than two doorway curtains.
Pau-Puk-Keewis heard the shouting,
Knew the voice of Hiawatha,
Knew the outcry of Iagoo,
And, forgetful of the warning,
Drew his neck in, and looked downward,
And the wind that blew behind him
Caught his mighty fan of feathers,
Sent him wheeling, whirling downward!
All in vain did Pau-Puk-Keewis
Struggle to regain his balance!
Whirling round and round and downward,
He beheld in turn the village
And in turn the flock above him,
Saw the village coming nearer,
And the flock receding farther,
Heard the voices growing louder,
Heard the shouting and the laughter;
Saw no more the flocks above him,
Only saw the earth beneath him;
Dead out of the empty heaven,
Dead among the shouting people,
With a heavy sound and sullen,
Fell the brant with broken pinions.
But his soul, his ghost, his shadow,
Still survived as Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Took again the form and features
Of the handsome Yenadizze,
And again went rushing onward,
Followed fast by Hiawatha,
Crying: 'Not so wide the world is,
Not so long and rough the way Is,
But my wrath shall overtake you,
But my vengeance shall attain you!'
And so near he came, so near him,
That his hand was stretched to seize him,
His right hand to seize and hold him,
When the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis
Whirled and spun about in circles,
Fanned the air into a whirlwind,
Danced the dust and leaves about him,
And amid the whirling eddies
Sprang into a hollow oak-tree,
Changed himself into a serpent,
Gliding out through root and rubbish.
With his right hand Hiawatha
Smote amain the hollow oak-tree,
Rent it into shreds and splinters,
Left it lying there in fragments.
But in vain; for Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Once again in human figure,
Full in sight ran on before him,
Sped away in gust and whirlwind,
On the shores of Gitche Gumee,
Westward by the Big-Sea-Water,
Came unto the rocky headlands,
To the Pictured Rocks of sandstone,
Looking over lake and landscape.
And the Old Man of the Mountain,
He the Manito of Mountains,
Opened wide his rocky doorways,
Opened wide his deep abysses,
Giving Pau-Puk-Keewis shelter
In his caverns dark and dreary,
Bidding Pau-Puk-Keewis welcome
To his gloomy lodge of sandstone.
There without stood Hiawatha,
Found the doorways closed against him,
With his mittens, Minjekahwun,
Smote great caverns in the sandstone,
Cried aloud in tones of thunder,
'Open! I am Hiawatha!'
But the Old Man of the Mountain
Opened not, and made no answer
From the silent crags of sandstone,
From the gloomy rock abysses.
Then he raised his hands to heaven,
Called imploring on the tempest,
Called Waywassimo, the lightning,
And the thunder, Annemeekee;
And they came with night and darkness,
Sweeping down the Big-Sea-Water
From the distant Thunder Mountains;
And the trembling Pau-Puk-Keewis
Heard the footsteps of the thunder,
Saw the red eyes of the lightning,
Was afraid, and crouched and trembled.
Then Waywassimo, the lightning,
Smote the doorways of the caverns,
With his war-club smote the doorways,
Smote the jutting crags of sandstone,
And the thunder, Annemeekee,
Shouted down into the caverns,
Saying, 'Where is Pau-Puk-Keewis!'
And the crags fell, and beneath them
Dead among the rocky ruins
Lay the cunning Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Lay the handsome Yenadizze,
Slain in his own human figure.
Ended were his wild adventures,
Ended were his tricks and gambols,
Ended all his craft and cunning,
Ended all his mischief-making,
All his gambling and his dancing,
All his wooing of the maidens.
Then the noble Hiawatha
Took his soul, his ghost, his shadow,
Spake and said: 'O Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Never more in human figure
Shall you search for new adventures'
Never more with jest and laughter
Dance the dust and leaves in whirlwinds;
But above there in the heavens
You shall soar and sail in circles;
I will change you to an eagle,
To Keneu, the great war-eagle,
Chief of all the fowls with feathers,
Chief of Hiawatha's chickens.'
And the name of Pau-Puk-Keewis
Lingers still among the people,
Lingers still among the singers,
And among the story-tellers;
And in Winter, when the snow-flakes
Whirl in eddies round the lodges,
When the wind in gusty tumult
O'er the smoke-flue pipes and whistles,
'There,' they cry, 'comes Pau-Puk-Keewis,
He is dancing through the village,
He is gathering in his harvest!'
There is the remorseless, tireless seeking
and following of the soul by the Divine Life.
The inexorable onward sweep of this
‘Tremendous lover' is hunting the separated spirit
that flees him down the nights and down the days.
Our natural will is to have God.
The good will of God is to have us.
We may never cease from longing
till we have him in fullness of  joy.
The mystic vision is of a spiritual universe,
held tight within the bonds of love.
(Graphic: Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, AZ Quotes)
"Let's get going hunting geese" said Jack impatiently
"I don't know how to use my sights" said John hopelessly
"It can be lots of fun
If you can use your gun"
"Just point and shoot up in the air" said Tom aimlessly
Wide windy reaches of high stubble field;
A long gray road, bordered with dusty pines;
A wagon moving in a 'cloud by day.'
Two city sportsmen with a dove between,
Breast-high upon a fence and fast asleep
A solitary dove, the only dove
In twenty counties, and it sick, or else
It were not there. Two guns that fire as one,
With thunder simultaneous and loud;
Two shattered human wrecks of blood and bone!
And later, in the gloaming, comes a man
The worthy local coroner is he,
Renowned all thereabout, and popular
With many a remain. All tenderly
Compiling in a game-bag the debris,
He glides into the gloom and fades from sight.
The dove, cured of its ailment by the shock,
Has flown, meantime, on pinions strong and fleet,
To die of age in some far foreign land.
It seems like we thrive from the adrenaline flow
While hunting the morning of the very first snow.
For all the mornings that we practically froze
When we can't feel our fingers, or the tips of our toes.
Yet, we still hunt day after day
In anticipation of the moment we can finally say
'I GOT A DEER' with a cheerful shout.
As we jump up and down and run all about.
We think it's skill, but it's mostly luck
That feeling we get when we get our first buck.
When we talk about the hunt, or the antler size
No one knows the real truth, 'cause everyone lies.
It's remembering our first hunt, as a girl or a boy
When we felt the excitement with a heart full of joy.
It's the fun that we have with our family and friends.
It's the sharing and experience that we hope never ends.
So, go deer hunting...just do it some day
Then you might understand what I'm trying to say.
Hunting deer is special to me
So, try it sometime and you'll find out and see.
Though shooting stars commemorate the birth
of deities, no stellar signs appear
to eulogize the dime-a-dozen worth
of disenchanted everymen, I fear.
Few males are born with mythic traits these days
(you hardly hold the patent on mundane)   -
no worries, though, your all-too-human ways
makes modesty less taxing to attain.
So if your isolated sighs suggest
estrangement from the ruling class above,
be certain you were copiously blessed
with down-to-earth appealingness, my love.
No mountains moved in honor of your might
but you are my unparalleled delight.
Complex, can't understand,
A simple man,
My husband.
Sharing my body,
Bear your child and suffer,
But, yet no regrets.
The days were bright
But remained light
Showing me no further purpose
So I chose you
You proved to be my diamond
Beautiful and handsome husband
Caring and affectionate
What more should I state?
I was guideless
And bore no smile on face
Today I am happiest person
And feel like to have got heaven
Today you have birth date
I wish you good luck and rate
One of the most lovely and faithful
I really feel
My life would have been still dry
If he had not entered holy tie
Today I feel not only safe and secured
But really stand admired
I'm looking for a husband, you know the sort of chap
The kind of guy who copes with things and never has a flap
The one who fixes cars and bikes and often mows the lawn
Takes the kids on Sunday hikes while I with hammock yawn
I'm looking for a husband, you know the sort of bloke
Who listens to the things I say and laughs out when I joke
He'll do the Sunday B B Q and carves the Sunday roast
Then gives me a foot massage, that's the thing I like the most
I'm looking for a husband dependable and true
Who likes to have discussions but never will argue
Can sit in friendly silence, and never has to babble
Will make and pour the tea for me and lets me win at scrabble
I'm looking for a husband; I know they're pretty rare
The kind who opens doors for me and lets me have his chair
And earns enough at his travail so we're debt and mortgage free
But doesn't put his work ahead of caring about me
The husband I am looking for might seem quite rare to you
And friends have tried to tell me that in number they are few
But I have hope of finding one I hope he will be free
‘Cause I've been one for forty years, I want one just like me!
A husband should be
Loyal and honest
A husband should be
Strong and protective
A husband should be
Loving and romantic
A husband should be
Patient and understanding
A husband should know
When enough is enough
A husband should know
When to fight and when to cry
A husband should know
all your goals and dreams
A husband should know
your strengths and well as your weaknesses
A husband needs to be a true man
A husband needs to love you unconditionally
A husband needs to know your heart is forever his
Absent upon Public Employment
My head, my heart, mine eyes, my life, nay more,
My joy, my magazine, of earthly store,
If two be one, as surely thou and I,
How stayest thou there, whilst I at Ipswich lie?
So many steps, head from the heart to sever,
If but a neck, soon should we be together.
I, like the Earth this season, mourn in black,
My Sun is gone so far in's zodiac,
Whom whilst I 'joyed, nor storms, nor frost I felt,
His warmth such fridged colds did cause to melt.
My chilled limbs now numbed lie forlorn;
Return; return, sweet Sol, from Capricorn;
In this dead time, alas, what can I more
Than view those fruits which through thy heart I bore?
Which sweet contentment yield me for a space,
True living pictures of their father's face.
O strange effect! now thou art southward gone,
I weary grow the tedious day so long;
But when thou northward to me shalt return,
I wish my Sun may never set, but burn
Within the Cancer of my glowing breast,
The welcome house of him my dearest guest.
Where ever, ever stay, and go not thence,
Till nature's sad decree shall call thee hence;
Flesh of thy flesh, bone of thy bone,
I here, thou there, yet both but one.
Phoebus make haste, the day's too long, begone,
The silent night's the fittest time for moan;
But stay this once, unto my suit give ear,
And tell my griefs in either Hemisphere:
(And if the whirling of thy wheels do n't drown'd
The woful accents of my doleful sound),
If in thy swift career thou canst make stay,
I crave this boon, this errand by the way:
Commend me to the man more lov'd than life,
Show him the sorrows of his widow'd wife,
My dumpish thoughts, my groans, my brackish tears,
My sobs, my longing hopes, my doubting fears,
And, if he love, how can he there abide?
My interest's more than all the world beside.
He that can tell the stars or Ocean sand,
Or all the grass that in the meads do stand,
The leaves in th' woods, the hail or drops of rain,
Or in a cornfield number every grain,
Or every mote that in the sunshine hops,
May court my sighs and number all my drops.
Tell him, the countless steps that thou dost trace,
That once a day thy spouse thou mayst embrace;
And when thou canst not treat by loving mouth,
Thy rays afar, salute her from the south.
But for one month I see no day (poor soul)
Like those far situate under the pole,
Which day by day long wait for thy arise,
O how they joy when thou dost light the skies.
O Phoebus, hadst thou but thus long from thine
Restrain'd the beams of thy beloved shine,
At thy return, if so thou couldst or durst,
Behold a Chaos blacker than the first.
Tell him here's worse than a confused matter,
His little world's a fathom under water,
Naught but the fervor of his ardent beams
Hath power to dry the torrent of these streams.
Tell him I would say more, but cannot well,
Opressed minds abrupted tales do tell.
Now post with double speed, mark what I say,
By all our loves conjure him not to stay.
TO these whom death again did wed
This grave 's the second marriage-bed.
For though the hand of Fate could force
'Twixt soul and body a divorce,
It could not sever man and wife,
Because they both lived but one life.
Peace, good reader, do not weep;
Peace, the lovers are asleep.
They, sweet turtles, folded lie
In the last knot that love could tie.
Let them sleep, let them sleep on,
Till the stormy night be gone,
And the eternal morrow dawn;
Then the curtains will be drawn,
And they wake into a light
Whose day shall never die in night.
My love, this is the bitterest, that thou---
Who art all truth, and who dost love me now
As thine eyes say, as thy voice breaks to say---
Shouldst love so truly, and couldst love me still
A whole long life through, had but love its will,
Would death that leads me from thee brook delay.
II.
I have but to be by thee, and thy hand
Will never let mine go, nor heart withstand
The beating of my heart to reach its place.
When shall I look for thee and feel thee gone?
When cry for the old comfort and find none?
Never, I know! Thy soul is in thy face.
III.
Oh, I should fade---'tis willed so! Might I save,
Gladly I would, whatever beauty gave
Joy to thy sense, for that was precious too.
It is not to be granted. But the soul
Whence the love comes, all ravage leaves that whole;
Vainly the flesh fades; soul makes all things new.
IV.
It would not be because my eye grew dim
Thou couldst not find the love there, thanks to Him
Who never is dishonoured in the spark
He gave us from his fire of fires, and bade
Remember whence it sprang, nor be afraid
While that burns on, though all the rest grow dark.
V.
So, how thou wouldst be perfect, white and clean
Outside as inside, soul and soul's demesne
Alike, this body given to show it by!
Oh, three-parts through the worst of life's abyss,
What plaudits from the next world after this,
Couldst thou repeat a stroke and gain the sky!
VI.
And is it not the bitterer to think
That, disengage our hands and thou wilt sink
Although thy love was love in very deed?
I know that nature! Pass a festive day,
Thou dost not throw its relic-flower away
Nor bid its music's loitering echo speed.
VII.
Thou let'st the stranger's glove lie where it fell;
If old things remain old things all is well,
For thou art grateful as becomes man best
And hadst thou only heard me play one tune,
Or viewed me from a window, not so soon
With thee would such things fade as with the rest.
VIII.
I seem to see! We meet and part; 'tis brief;
The book I opened keeps a folded leaf,
The very chair I sat on, breaks the rank
That is a portrait of me on the wall---
Three lines, my face comes at so slight a call:
And for all this, one little hour to thank!
IX.
But now, because the hour through years was fixed,
Because our inmost beings met and mixed,
Because thou once hast loved me---wilt thou dare
Say to thy soul and Who may list beside,
``Therefore she is immortally my bride;
``Chance cannot change my love, nor time impair.
X.
``So, what if in the dusk of life that's left,
``I, a tired traveller of my sun bereft,
Look from my path when, mimicking  the same,
``The fire-fly glimpses past me, come and gone?
``---Where was it till the sunset? where anon
``It will be at the sunrise! What's to blame?''
XI.
Is it so helpful to thee? Canst thou take
The mimic up, nor, for the true thing's sake,
Put gently by such efforts at a beam?
Is the remainder of the way so long,
Thou need'st the little solace, thou the strong
Watch out thy watch, let weak ones doze and dream!
XII.
---Ah, but the fresher faces! ``Is it true,''
Thou'lt ask, ``some eyes are beautiful and new?
``Some hair,---how can one choose but grasp such wealth?
``And if a man would press his lips to lips
``Fresh as the wilding hedge-rose-cup there slips
``The dew-drop out of, must it be by stealth?
XIII.
``It cannot change the love still kept for Her,
``More than if such a picture I prefer
``Passing a day with, to a room's bare side:
The painted form takes nothing she possessed,
Yet, while the Titian's Venus lies at rest,
A man looks. Once more, what is there to chide?''
XIV.
So must I see, from where I sit and watch,
My own self sell myself, my hand attach
Its warrant to the very thefts from me---
Thy singleness of soul that made me proud,
Thy purity of heart I loved aloud,
Thy man's-truth I was bold to bid God see!
XV.
Love so, then, if thou wilt! Give all thou canst
Away to the new faces---disentranced,
(Say it and think it) obdurate no more:
Re-issue looks and words from the old mint,
Pass them afresh, no matter whose the print
Image and superscription once they bore
XVI.
Re-coin thyself and give it them to spend,---
It all comes to the same thing at the end,
Since mine thou wast, mine art and mine shalt be,
Faithful or faithless, scaling up the sum
Or lavish of my treasure, thou must come
Back to the heart's place here I keep for thee!
XVII.
Only, why should it be with stain at all?
Why must I, 'twixt the leaves of coronal,
Put any kiss of pardon on thy brow?
Why need the other women know so much,
And talk together, ``Such the look and such
``The smile he used to love with, then as now!''
XVIII.
Might I die last and show thee! Should I find
Such hardship in the few years left behind,
If free to take and light my lamp, and go
Into thy tomb, and shut the door and sit,
Seeing thy face on those four sides of it
The better that they are so blank, I know!
XIX.
Why, time was what I wanted, to turn o'er
Within my mind each look, get more and more
By heart each word, too much to learn at first;
And join thee all the fitter for the pause
'Neath the low doorway's lintel. That were cause
For lingering, though thou calledst, if I durst!
XX.
And yet thou art the nobler of us two
What dare I dream of, that thou canst not do,
Outstripping my ten small steps with one stride?
I'll say then, here's a trial and a task---
Is it to bear?---if easy, I'll not ask:
Though love fail, I can trust on in thy pride.
XXI.
Pride?---when those eyes forestall the life behind
The death I have to go through!---when I find,
Now that I want thy help most, all of thee!
What did I fear? Thy love shall hold me fast
Until the little minute's sleep is past
And I wake saved.---And yet it will not be!
My husband Vinny Christensen
He's now thirty seven, but he looks younger
He has beautiful eyes with his sweet smile
Making my heart beats a little faster.
He works as technical consultant at Telenor
Never felt bored solving problems for his customers
He has a lot of wonderful colleagues
Ronny, Daniel are so sweet, they are his best partners.
Vinny loves so much his music
He's fantastic, all the lyrics he wrote
He makes wonderful words rhymes
Melody's brighten like blue skies, made me cry some time I suppose.
He has the rhythms in his heart
Writing a song so fast, he is a talented
Playing all the music instruments he can
Piano, Guitar, Ukelele, etc. I don't understand..Why he's so fascinated!
He's now writing me a beautiful song
He said not so long he will totally complete it
RAE is the name he named his latest song
It will be the greatest as it belongs, he makes me really appreciated!
I love my husband so much
My face is all blushed like a light pink rose
He is a perfect wonderful and gently man
Like white sparkling sand, he's the man I chose!
All married men want to be called a good husband
A good husband is a decent husband
Mr. Husband what you done to deserve this decency?
Has your wife ever referred to you as her good husband?
It is known that the eyes cannot see itself
Unless by reflection. Have you ever asked
Your wife for a performance appraisal
Honey, how did I perform last year?
On a scale of one to ten, one for very poor
Ten for excellent, how did I perform?
Your wife may think you are now on new drugs
If you receive less than six, you need to
Start fence mending before it is too late
A good husband sees his wife as his friend
A nice husband treats his wife as his lover
A decent husband regards his wife as a soul-mate
You should anticipate what your wife
Will need before she makes any request
By the way, have you ever bought a gift
For your wife without an occasion?
Do you have to wait for her birthday?
To inform her that she is very special to you?
Do you have to wait for your wedding anniversary?
To tell her that she is the best thing in your life
When last did you talk to your wife in-laws?
When last did you visit your wife in-laws?
What have you done to be called a good husband?
Ask for performance appraisal on a regular basis
Remember, if you make your wife happy
You will get happiness in return
The one, woman, who stands before the husband
Making him extremely angry by words and deeds
Is similar to ‘Yama’ (God of death) !
The one, woman, who is not entering
Into the kitchen in the early morning,
To prepare food for the bread earning husband
Is like a deadly disease to her husband!
The one, woman, who eats herself alone
Whatever she cooked without serving to
Her husband is a living demon in the home!
These three attitudes of a woman
Are the armaments which affect the health
Of her husband and may lead to his death!
- - -             - - - -
It happened recently in Bangalore,
The wordy quarrel between husband and wife!
(May be wife provoked)
Both are IT professionals!
Mentally disturbed Husband
Stabbed and killed his wife,
Jumped from 13th floor,
Ended his life too!
Eating, wearing flowers, delight in heart
and beautifying are all only for him, to see!
O' my friend!  While knowing that in spite
of my husband had left me for earning sake,
you had come to beautify me,
Is it not your ignorance?
(him - husband)
(accompanying maid or friend helps in beautifying the girl)
Away the startled pheasant flies,
With lazy movement of his wings.
Borne was my heart's lord from my eyes;--
What pain the separation brings!
The pheasant, though no more in view,
His cry, below, above, forth sends.
Alas! my princely lord, 'tis you--
Your absence, that my bosom rends.
At sun and moon I sit and gaze,
In converse with my troubled heart.
Far, far from me my husband stays!
When will he come to heal its smart?
Ye princely men who with him mate,
Say, mark ye not his virtuous way.
His rule is--covet nought, none hate;--
How can his steps from goodness stray?
The dolichos grows and covers the thorn,
O'er the waste is the dragon-plant creeping.
The man of my heart is away and I mourn--
What home have I, lonely and weeping?
Covering the jujubes the dolichos grows,
The graves many dragon-plants cover;
But where is the man on whose breast I'd repose?
No home have I, having no lover!
Fair to see was the pillow of horn,
And fair the bed-chamber's adorning;
But the man of my heart is not here, and I mourn
All alone, and wait for the morning.
While the long days of summer pass over my head,
And long winter nights leave their traces,
I'm alone! Till a hundred of years shall have fled,
And then I shall meet his embraces.
Through the long winter nights I am burdened with fears,
Through the long summer days I am lonely;
But when time shall have counted its hundreds of years
I then shall be his--and his only!
His lady to the marquis says,
'The cock has crowed; 'tis late.
Get up, my lord, and haste to court.
'Tis full; for you they wait.'
She did not hear the cock's shrill sound,
Only the blueflies buzzing round.
Again she wakes him with the words,
'The east, my lord, is bright.
A crowded court your presence seeks;
Get up and hail the light.'
'Twas not the dawning light which shone,
But that which by the moon was thrown.
He sleeping still, once more she says,
'The flies are buzzing loud.
To lie and dream here by your side
Were pleasant, but the crowd
Of officers will soon retire;
Draw not on you and me their ire!'
battered husbands too exist
a wife kicking his strong feet
slapping his rugged jaw
insulting him in front of his
friends and shouting at
him while talking breakfast
she collars him and spits
on him, his decency trampled
like a rug at the door
where she cleans her feet
from all dirt where she
stamps on his privacy
i see him smile through
all these, as though nothing
really matters, nothing
to mind nothing to be
taken seriously
she was once beautiful
a face he always adore
something wrong went
somewhere,
she went wild in the
desert of her longings
she fell on the deep abyss
of her mind
she lost her senses
on some unacceptable
pains
she cries in the wilderness
as though her soul
is taken somewhere else
and here he is
this battered husband
watching him with so
much understanding
her doctor will be coming
again today
for her injections
Everytime I talk to God,
You are always part of my prayer.
I know he made you,
With a heart to love me…
Saving my heart for you in my future
Just in case you want to be part of my journey,
But you don't need to be perfect,
Just be a man in prayers..
I will love you despite of your imperfections,
I won't define you by your past,
I take you to be my best friend and lover,
Just be a man with a heart of gold..
I do not know what you are doing right now,
But someday I believe our path will cross,
I'd love to meet you, and then stand before you,
And I'd like to love you one day..
Potentially yours,
I promise to be an ideal wife to you,
an ideal mother to our unborn children
I promise you a home filled with love, ,
i promise you an undiluted love and unshared affection
I promise you that God will be first in our home
i promise to stand by you till you reach the very top
I promise to be your guiding light,
your shade when you are tired,
and your refuge when you need to hide
I promise to be your friend, to listen and to
give you my unwavering attention
i promise to care for you in sickness and in health
I will always be there! !
I promise to call you back when you're going astray
i promise to always table our affairs
in God's hand through prayers
I promise to be your cook, your mother,
your homemaker and your whore
when you needed to flirt
I promise you that no matter what you do,
I will always be there to forgive you
i promise never to Bring a third party into the affairs
of our life and home.
I promise to give you my heart, my soul, my body and all my respect.
i promise that your family will be my family
your friends Will be my friends
your enemies, my enemies
and your God my God......
i pledge my alligeance to you because I choose you and  I love you...
so help me God....
Bruce Derricotte, June 22, 1928 - June 21, 2011
What was there is no longer there:
Not the blood running its wires of flame through the whole length
Not the memories, the texts written in the language of the flat hills
No, not the memories, the porch swing and the father crying
The genteel and elegant aunt bleeding out on the highway
(Too black for the white ambulance to pick up)
Who had sent back lacquered plates from China
Who had given away her best ivory comb that one time she was angry
Not the muscles, the ones the white girls longed to touch
But must not (for your mother warned
You would be lynched in that all-white Ohio town you grew up in)
Not that same town where you were the only, the one good black boy
All that is gone
Not the muscles running, the baseball flying into your mitt
Not the hand that laid itself over my heart and saved me
Not the eyes that held the long gold tunnel I believed in
Not the restrained hand in love and in anger
Not the holding back
Not the taut holding
Like some raw sophister that mounts the pulpit,
So trembles a young poet at a full pit.
Unused to crowds, the parson quakes for fear,
And wonders how the devil he durst come there;
Wanting three talents needful for the place,
Some beard, some learning, and some little grace.
Nor is the puny poet void of care;
For authors, such as our new authors are,
Have not much learning, nor much wit to spare;
And as for grace, to tell the truth, there's scarce one,
But has as little as the very parson:
Both say, they preach and write for your instruction;
But 'tis for a third day, and for induction.
The difference is, that though you like the play,
The poet's gain is ne'er beyond his day;
But with the parson 'tis another case,
He, without holiness, may rise to grace;
The poet has one disadvantage more,
That if his play be dull, he's damned all o'er,
Not only a damn'd blockhead, but damn'd poor.
But dulness well becomes the sable garment;
I warrant that ne'er spoiled a priest's preferment;
Wit's not his business, and as wit now goes,
Sirs, 'tis not so much yours as you suppose,
For you like nothing now but nauseous beaux.
You laugh not, gallants, as by proof appears,
At what his beauship says, but what he wears;
So 'tis your eyes are tickled, not your ears.
The tailor and the furrier find the stuff,
The wit lies in the dress, and monstrous muff.
The truth on 't is, the payment of the pit
Is like for like, clipt money for clipt wit.
You cannot from our absent author hope,
He should equip the stage with such a fop.
Fools change in England, and new fools arise;
For, though the immortal species never dies,
Yet every year new maggots make new flies.
But where he lives abroad, he scarce can find
One fool, for million that he left behind.
Think not this paper comes with vain pretense
To move your pity, or to mourn th'offense.
Too well I know that hard obdurate heart;
No softening mercy there will take my part,
Nor can a woman's arguments prevail,
When even your patron's wise example fails.
But this last privilege I still retain;
Th'oppressed and injured always may complain.
Too, too severely laws of honor bind
The weak submissive sex of womankind.
If sighs have gained or force compelled our hand,
Deceived by art, or urged by stern command,
Whatever motive binds the fatal tie,
The judging world expects our constancy.
Just heaven! (for sure in heaven does justice reign,
Though tricks below that sacred name profane)
To you appealing I submit my cause,
Nor fear a judgment from impartial laws.
All bargains but conditional are made;
The purchase void, the creditor unpaid;
Defrauded servants are from service free;
A wounded slave regains his liberty.
For wives ill used no remedy remains,
To daily racks condemned, and to eternal chains.
From whence is this unjust distinction grown?
Are we not formed with passions like your own?
Nature with equal fire our souls endued,
Our minds as haughty, and as warm our blood;
O'er the wide world your pleasures you pursue,
The change is justified by something new;
But we must sigh in silence -- and be true.
Our sex's weakness you expose and blame
(Of every prattling fop the common theme).
Yet from this weakness you suppose is due
Sublimer virtue than your Cato knew.
Had heaven designed us trials so severe,
It would have formed our tempers then to bear.
And I have borne (oh what have I not borne!)
The pang of jealousy, the insults of scorn.
Wearied at length, I from your sight remove,
And place my future hopes in secret love.
In the gay bloom of glowing youth retired,
I quit the woman's joy to be admired,
With that small pension your hard heart allows,
Renounce your fortune, and release your vows.
To custom (though unjust) so much is due;
I hide my frailty from the public view.
My conscience clear, yet sensible of shame,
My life I hazard, to preserve my fame.
And I prefer this low inglorious state
To vile dependence on the thing I hate --
But you pursue me to this last retreat.
Dragged into light, my tender crime is shown
And every circumstance of fondness known.
Beneath the shelter of the law you stand,
And urge my ruin with a cruel hand,
While to my fault thus rigidly severe,
Tamely submissive to the man you fear.
This wretched outcast, this abandoned wife,
Has yet this joy to sweeten shameful life:
By your mean conduct, infamously loose,
You are at once my accuser and excuse.
Let me be damned by the censorious prude
(stupidly dull, or spiritually lewd),
My hapless case will surely pity find
From every just and reasonable mind.
When to the final sentence I submit,
The lips condemn me, but their souls acquit.
No more my husband, to your pleasures go,
The sweets of your recovered freedom know.
Go: court the brittle friendship of the great,
Smile at his board, or at his levee wait;
And when dismissed, to madam's toilet fly,
More than her chambermaids, or glasses, lie,
Tell her how young she looks, how heavenly fair,
Admire the lilies and the roses there.
Your high ambition may be gratified,
Some cousin of her own be made your bride,
And you the father of a glorious race
Endowed with Ch------l's strength and Low---r's face.
You sleep in the darkness,
you with the back I love
& the gift of sleeping
through my noisy nights of poetry.
I have taken other men into my thoughts
since I met you.
I have loved parts of them.
But only you sleep on through the darkness
like a mountain where my house is planted,
like a rock on which my temple stands,
like a great dictionary holding every word-
even some
I have never spoken.
You breathe.
The pages of your dreams are riffled
by the winds of my writing.
The pillow creases your cheek
as I cover pages.
Element in which I swim
or fly,
silent muse, backbone, companion-
it is unfashionable
to confess to marriage-
yet I feel no bondage
in this air we share.
When feares and sorrowes me besett,
Then did'st thou rid me out;
When heart did faint and spirits quail,
Thou comforts me about.
Thou rais'st him vp I feard to loose,
Regau'st me him again:
Distempers thou didst chase away;
With strenght didst him sustain.
My thankfull heart, with Pen record
The Goodnes of thy God;
Let thy obedience testefye
He taught thee by his rod.
And with his staffe did thee support,
That thou by both may'st learn;
And 'twixt the good and evill way,
At last, thou mig'st discern.
Praises to him who hath not left
My Soul as destitute;
Nor turnd his ear away from me,
But graunted hath my Suit.
What is left of a
Lover after hes been whipped
Into condition.
One cuddles under cotton blanket, the other lonely cold
I curse the fate of having a shared husband!
Is this good enough that some times I sleep with him?
Once or twice a month, but it tastes like nothing…
I exchange my pain for the rice, but rice is rotten.
If I see myself as a maid, I work without pay.
If I had known what it would be like to share a husband
I would rather stay single than getting married.
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
12/31/2016
Above poem is Translation poem of the Vietnamese poem of HỒ XUÂN HƯƠNG
CẢNH LÀM LẼ
Kẻ đắp chăn bông, kẻ lạnh lùng,
Chém cha cái kiếp lấy chồng chung!
Năm thì mười họa, nên chăng chớ,
Một tháng đôi lần, có cũng không...
Cố đấm ăn xôi, xôi lại hỏng,
Cầm bằng làm mướn, mướn không công.
Thân này ví biết dường này nhỉ,
Thà trước thôi đành ở vậy xong.
HỒ XUÂN HƯƠNG
"No--not where I shall make my own;
But dig his grave just by
The woman's with the initialed stone -
As near as he can lie -
After whose death he seemed to ail,
Though none considered why.
"And when I also claim a nook,
And your feet tread me in,
Bestow me, under my old name,
Among my kith and kin,
That strangers gazing may not dream
I did a husband win."
"Widow, your wish shall be obeyed;
Though, thought I, certainly
You'd lay him where your folk are laid,
And your grave, too, will be,
As custom hath it; you to right,
And on the left hand he."
"Aye, sexton; such the Hintock rule,
And none has said it nay;
But now it haps a native here
Eschews that ancient way . . .
And it may be, some Christmas night,
When angels walk, they'll say:
"'O strange interment! Civilized lands
Afford few types thereof;
Here is a man who takes his rest
Beside his very Love,
Beside the one who was his wife
In our sight up above!'"
How can you hurt me?
And feel nothing at all
And fail on your promise
To catch me when I fall?
Does it make you feel better?
When you call me bad names
Does it boost your ego?
So you don’t feel no pain?
I was always so proud
To be your wife
And had all these dreams with you
Of a wonderful life
But when you walked out
And gave up without trying
You took a piece of my heart
And left me with crying
We're over, we're done
You no longer care
You made your decision
How it that fair?
You shut down and turned off
Every feeling you had
And left me with regrets
And memories we had
I’ve tried and tried
And you keep saying were through
It makes me wonder
Did I ever matter to you?
How can you hurt someone?
You promised to always love
And act like it doesn’t bother you
When it’s obvious it does
But you’ve made this choice
And it doesn’t matter that I’m blue
And I’m crazy to say this
But I’ll always love you!
Husband and wife
Wives are considered as an obedient
They live happily and serve at present
The husband and children are taken care of
Despite you dig at her and make laugh
Generally husbands are blamed
For taking views one sided
Go to her only for sexual abuse
Give all what is needed to defuse the tension
She has lot more things to take into account
The pressure is on to mount
She hides pain from mere devotional point
"Ideal wife" as she prefers to be painted
Children may stay inclined
Husbands too very heavily fined
For not caring ailing partner
This is really bad factor
Let us be reasonable
Some of the accusation invite troubles
As husband has to earn and maintain
Despite taking jheavy economic burden
B-eautiful bride and groom
E-xpects a happy marriage;
M-onday March thirteenth,
B-oth of them turn the page.
O-ne in the eyes of God, they never  go separate ways;
L-ove and care for each other are always in proper place.
&
M-arried couple can understand
E-ach other's feeling and emotion;
L-iving a life in harmony
I-s their mutual passion.
N-o one can ever break them,
D-espite the stormy weather;
A-iming to last a lifetime, husband and wife forever.
for Argee Atienza
I am the bow
you are the arrow
by my arm
you are the sling
together we aim
ideal home of life
I am the Husband
you are the Wife
The world had chafed his spirit proud
By its wearing, crushing strife,
The censure of the thoughtless crowd
Had touched a blameless life;
Like the dove of old, from the water’s foam,
He wearily turned to the ark of home.
Hopes he had cherished with joyous heart,
Had toiled for many a day,
With body and spirit, and patient art,
Like mists had melted away;
And o’er day-dreams vanished, o’er fond hopes flown,
He sat him down to mourn alone.
No, not alone, for soft fingers rest
On his hot and aching brow,
Back the damp hair is tenderly pressed
While a sweet voice whispers low:
“Thy joys have I shared, O my husband true,
And shall I not share thy sorrows too?”
Vain task to resist the loving gaze
That so fondly meets his own,
Revealing a heart that cares for praise
From him and him alone;
And though censure and grief upon him pall,
Unto to her, at least, he is all in all.
What though false friends should turn aside,
Or chill with icy look;
What though he meet the pitying pride,
The proud heart ill can brook;
There are depths of love in one gentle heart,
Whose faith with death alone will part.
Aye! well may thy brow relax its gloom,
For a talisman hast thou
’Gainst hopes that are blighted in their bloom,
’Gainst scornful look or brow—
Her heart is a high and a holy throne
Where monarch supreme thou reignest alone.
Kindly return her tender gaze,
Press closely that little hand,
Whisper fond words and soothing praise—
They are ever at thy command;
It is all the harvest she asks to reap
In return for love as the ocean deep.
Husband and Wife relationship is like mind and heart association,
Less co-ordination between both;  will lead to disconnection,
Tolerance is bondage; intolerance may lead to extrication,
Understanding of both sides is very important for relation.
Marriage is a  distress; when there is misinterpretation,
To lead a society happily; relationship is a foundation,
Broken relationship is equivalent to misconception,
Better to separate instead of suffering in confusion.
Husbands, from the very foundation of the earth
Were given the right to be head of their homes.
They are leaders, builders, protectors, and providers.
You see, their shoulders are wide and their arms
are strong ready and able to lift and carry any load.
They've been purposely equipped to do and be.
They were created in God's image.
Therefore they speak God's Word
over their wives as a cleanser.
She was taken and formed from his rib
A place so close and dear to his heart.
They are warriors.
They are a strong foundation of any home.
Since you've been away,
i feel an empty space that can never be replaced.
Everyday i have to feel these tears roll down my face,
because of all the memories i just cant erase.
Hubby i just need to have you home.
It hurts me too much when i hear your voice over a phone.
2 weeks jared? that is way too long.
By then im sure my mind will be gone, but for you mi amor,
i will stay strong, i will hold on.
I feel so lost without you.
Move on & live my life? i don't want to.
To be honest that is something my heart wont let me do.
No matter how many timez i try.
My love is to strong to be with you.
You're the one & only man for me.
I truely believe we were meant to be.
Every day that i live without you i feel my heart breaking.
With every breath im taking,
every move im making & every smile im faking.
HUBBY I LOVE YOU.
I'll be right here...
Waiting.
During the mid-noon, during midnight,
…both early morning and early evening;
the days of respectable stars of
…Thiruvaathirai and ThiruvOnam;
(The birth stars of Lord Shiva and Vishnu) ,
…the new moon day and full moon day;
the eighth day which comes after
…the new moon day and full moon day;
and also on his birth day,
…The learned people say that the husband
is not supposed to have union with his wife
…on the above said occasions!
At my side
Warm, loving
Tender, caring
Filling my needs
Sometimes sharing.
Always gentle
Somewhat sentimental
Hiding hurts
Temper flaring
Husband mine
Always--I love you!
I never knew what love meant until I met you
Your always there for me
Whenever I need you
You worry so much for me
And I do too
That when we are not together
We miss each other all the way through.
You always comfort me
When I'm sad
You try so hard to make me happy
Even when I'm mad,
I dont know sometimes how you put up with me
I guess thats very nice
To have a wonderfull husband
Always by my side.
Where did you go
When you left that day
Do you know I'm still crying
Do you know I still pray
The last words you said
Were please hold my hand
Then what happened next
I just don't understand
You just went to sleep
But where did you go
I've been crying and waiting
And missing you so
You weren't ready to go
I remember you said
That it's gonna be years
Before you were dead
We had plans for our future
We had plans for today
I still can't believe
That you've gone away
I miss you each minute
Of everyday
Are you not allowed back
If I ask and I pray
I'll forget about my future
I'll live in the past
And then my dear husband
Forever we'll last
I love you so much
I would give up my life
Then we'll always remain
Husband and wife x
I am proud of my husband because he had the strength to work and take care of me and our child.
I am Proud of my husband because he had allowed me to be a stay Home Mom while many husbands send their wives to work outside home.
I am proud of my husband because he never reminds me of my past sorrows.
I am Proud of my Husband because He is a wonderful father and a Great Provider.
I am Proud of my Husband because he encourages me to be Godly Mother, Godly wife and to be a Godly example.
I am proud of my husband and the job that he does because he is very talented and brilliant in his job.
I am Proud of my husband because he is very generous to the poor and needy.
I am Proud of my husband because his colleagues in his office praise him for his helping nature.
I am Proud of my husband because he is kind and friendly with the neighbors.
I am proud of my husband because he trusts me completely in everything.
I am proud of my husband because he is not greedy for money, possessions.
I am Proud of my husband because he sings worship songs that glorify God.
I am Proud of my husband because he teaches prayers, scriptures and Godly ways to our children.
I am proud of my husband because he does not lust at other women.
I am Proud of my husband because is kind and compassionate, Hardworking and truthful.
I am proud of my husband because he fears God and is obedient to His Word.
I am proud of my husband because he is trying his very best to be a Godly person, bringing our family to desire Christ and to seek God's glory.
I am proud of my husband because he is committed to our marriage; he has kept the marriage vows in spite of problems and challenges in the marriage.
I am proud of my husband because of his understanding and caring nature, inspite of we both coming from a different culture and different opinion.
I am proud of my husband because even though we have major differences, inspite of it we get along and come unity in Christ.
I am proud of my husband because he is loving, caring and He prays for me and for my children every day before God.
I am proud of my husband because our children Love and obey him with proper respect.
I am proud of my husband because he is a good leader, willing to put God first and our marriage next.
I am proud of my husband because when he does mistakes he is willing to ask forgiveness.
I am proud of my husband because he is courageous, caring and loving towards animals.
I am Proud of my husband because he is willing to give himself to me and our family.
I am proud of my husband because he doesn't allow me or my daughter exposing our bodies with inappropriate clothes.
I am proud of my husband because of his true and committed love for me and for our family.
I am proud of my husband because he avoids morally corrupted people around our family.
I am proud of my husband because he encourages and supports to practice our Christian faith, to grow in Godliness, to keep away from dangers and evils affecting from outside.
I am proud of my husband because he is not addicted to wine, not self-centered and controlling, not a gambler, not a smoker, not a womanizer.
I am proud of my husband because he manages the household well.
I am proud of my husband because of his everlasting marriage commitment
I am so proud of my husband that I get to share my life with him.
I'm always so proud to be the one next to him.
If the wife follows the principles
...of her husband and leads her life,
does what he says then and there itself
...without getting anger and displeasure,
without opposing even if he commands angrily;
...appreciate and obeys him pleasingly,
the husband understands her good qualities;
...admires and glorifies her, safeguards forever!
I have a little husband
And he is gone to sea,
The winds that whistle round his ship
Fly home to me.
The winds that sigh about me
Return again to him;
So I would fly, if only I
Were light of limb.
O Lord, Thou hear'st my daily moan
And see'st my dropping tears.
My troubles all are Thee before,
My longings and my fears.
Thou hitherto hast been my God;
Thy help my soul hath found.
Though loss and sickness me assailed,
Through Thee I've kept my ground.
And Thy abode Thou'st made with me;
With Thee my soul can talk;
In secret places Thee I find
Where I do kneel or walk.
Though husband dear be from me gone,
Whom I do love so well,
I have a more beloved one
Whose comforts far excel.
O stay my heart on Thee. my God,
Uphold my fainting soul.
And when I know not what to do,
I'll on Thy mercies roll.
My weakness. Thou dost know full well
Of body and of mind;
I in this world no comfort have,
But what from Thee I find.
Though children Thou has given me,
And friends I have also,
Yet if I see Thee not through them
They are no joy, but woe.
O shine upon me, blessed Lord,
Ev'n for my Saviour's sake;
In Thee alone is more than all,
And there content I'll take.
O hear me, Lord, in this request
As Thou before hast done,
Bring back my husband, I beseech,
As Thou didst once my son.
So shall I celebrate Thy praise
Ev'n while my days shall last
And talk to my beloved one
Of all Thy goodness past.
So both of us Thy kindness, Lord,
With praises shall recount
And serve Thee better than before
Whose blessings thus surmount.
But give me, Lord, a better heart,
Then better shall I be,
To pay the vows which I do owe
Forever unto Thee.
Unless Thou help, what can I do
But still my frailty show?
If Thou assist me, Lord,
I shall Return Thee what I owe.
For better or for worse
I will be your husband
But of you I quietly demand
Obedience and respect
I am the man of house
I am the man who's intellect
For a just cause
I will be your husband
I expect of you no fuss
When I have the last say
Of how we are to operate
each and everyday especially today
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
(limerick)A Note To Richard, The Husband of Chris
The work that you did in our kitchen
I would have to report has been bitchen
That's to say it was great
It really does rate
This is stated without a restrichen
And the bathroom is looking good too
Done with min'mal amount of to-do
With this we are happy...
Both mammy and pappy...
You brightened the look of the loo.
with thanks JUN 8 2018
Love is my husband,
Affection is wife,
Happiness is son,
Holy place is earth,
Friendship with air,
Running life in water,
The world, the settled place,
Hope not again to return.
Crippled with anger
Crippled with fear
My heart is aching
My eyes fill with tears
You tell me I'm bad, that I'm a loser
You're my husband, you're my abuser
I'm afraid to stay...
Afraid to leave
I'm scared to love you
Scared to believe
Your behavior keeps me so confused
There's so much pain
I feel so used
You've kept me so long
Under your spell
My heart feels so lonely
I'm as empty as a shell
All you gave was pain and sorrow
Not much hope for a bright tomorrow
Longing for a tender touch
A gentle voice
Will this painful life be my only choice?
A river of tears
So many lost years
~~~~~
At last, I'm free - I sent you away
Now, each nite I vow to pray
I thank the Lord for giving me strength
From now on - I'll keep you at length
You've set me free Lord - You made me brave
I promise I'll never be...
Another man's slave
~
____________________________________________ __________________________
You're everything I wanted and hoped you would be
You're the very best thing that's ever happened to me
Because of you I know who I am
I know where I'm going
I sure it was meant for me to love you
and just as sure it was meant for you too
My greatest wish is always be together
To find each other all over again
and know this is forever
So thank you for choosing me to share you're life
and even more for being you're wife
Passion and friendship started this love affair
And total friendship, had to much to share
I with my baggage, so broken from the past
You with yours, wanted a love that could last
We must have talked hours on the phone each day
At might in my head, our conversations I’d replay
You were so gentle, the kindest man I ever knew
I was so afraid, but my trust because of you grew
I had kissed so many toads to find my prince
You’ve been understanding and loving ever since
The happiest day, was when I became your wife
I’ll love you forever dear, you are my life
At times, we may have our ups and downs
Will have lots of laughs and no more frowns
I write this as our anniversary gets near
To let you know you are very dear
With all my love to my wonderful husband and best friend
Any heartache I had, you could mend
Thank you for these glorious years
With lots of smiles and no more tears!
By Dogs4donna
© 2007 Dogs4donna (All rights reserved)
Feelings that were true and deep
awoke my heart from its innocent sleep.
How enchanting it was to find a love
so very dear to keep.
Because of you, my soul has soared
to love's golden throne,
and, I will always yearn for you, and
you alone.
Without you, there would be no
sunshine or laughter.
My life would be incomplete and sad
ever-after.
The song in my heart would have an empty,
meaningless tone,
for, I love but you, and you alone.
When its late at night
And I am all alone
I look up at the sky
And remember you are gone
Gone from this place
Where I am at now
Gone to a place
That I disavow
It’s hot and sandy
I never want to go
It’s far and distant
I will never fully know
When I get a call
Few and far between
You have to watch what you say
For reasons left unseen
I don’t know what you’re doing
Or where you are at.
I don’t know who your with
Are you somewhere in combat?
I want you here with me
I want you by my side
I want you for my self
This feeling I will not hide
There is so much you are missing
With our little girl
You’ve never even seen
Her cute little curl
Somewhere in Iraq
Fighting in their war
Is my loving husband
Of whom I most adore
Months go by
Time fades away
My love grows stronger
Each and everyday
My husband, my soldier
My hero, my friend
I love you right now
I love you till the end
Before we even know it
You will be home
In this place together
We will forever roam
My husband, my soldier
My hero, my friend
You and me together
Our love will transcend
DEDICATED TO SGT DAVID LANE, IRAQ 05-06.
June 27,2006
Amongst the stars that are in the sky
You are the most shining and brightest
Along the long, task road of life
You have been at my side
You have wiped out my tears
All through the years
But Oh..! My dear
I have done nothing for you
I have always tried my best
To make fights with you
But I know my dear
Like stars studded in the sky
Your heart is vast and wide
And hence I will always LOVE YOU….!
Husband is someone;
You spend most of your life with.
And with him;
You are for years.
My life has become strong;
For my husband is not wrong.
My life has become independent;
For my husband never let me dependent.
My life has become pure;
For my husband had every cure.
My life has become romantic;
For my husband is very aromatic.
My life had a new beginning;
For my husband was nearing.
And the most valuable gift-
My husband has given me;
Are my 2 wonderful and the best kids-
And I thank God,
For the wonderful family he has given me.
It is true:
My husband
has never
taken out
the garbage
from our little house
in the suburbs.
My husband
has never
taken our children
out for the night
to trick-or-treating
as I sit
on the porch in a witch hat.
My husband
has never
come home from
a long day
to a special meal
I have prepared
just for him.
My husband
has never
told me he loves me
beside a warm fire
on our honeymoon.
But he will.
You're my husband
What I'll never meet
You're my husband
What I'll neve see close to me
You're my husband
With whom I'll never speak
The nicest words for you
Will never be heard
My tender caress
Will never be felt
My love to You will shine in dark
And no one will feel it
'Cause I want to give it
Only for you, my honey
You'll never call me your baby
No one tender word for me
I'll never read from your lips
Could You tell me
Why is it so?
Oh, my husband!
My sweet beloved;
My love for you could not be measured;
Your love is all that I have treasured.
You give me hope;
When I lay low;
You keep me warm;
In the cruel winter snow;
You hold me tight;
As my tears flow;
You give my life;
A precious glow.
Your kind smile and warm gestures;
Your humbleness and sweet forgiveness;
Your patience and virtuous nature;
Make me the luckiest wife ever.
You held my arms;
When I stumbled in the dark;
You wept my tears;
When I cried out aloud;
You kept me alive;
When I slowly withered;
You brightened my life;
Like a mighty wizard.
Oh my husband;
My sweet beloved;
For you, I shall live this life and the next;
And all the lives to come ahead.
In promises of winter end,
was our beginning.
My aching heart beats quicker at the mention of your name.
My soul longs for your touch.
The evening descends; on great owl wings.
I am calmed by your aromas;
It carries me into the dawn;
and your eyes hold me as none before.
I am filled hoping I may be the desire of your heart.
As my lips fall upon yours,
may you know you are my heart desire?
I look for the last gestures of winter end.
I remember my husband,
our day we became as one.
Those years have passed us by,
I still remember that winter day;
as it was yesterday.
My feverish hand lifts to your face.
that we may kiss as one.
We walk hand to hand as husband and wife.
As We began our life a new,
until my last dying breathe.
I Love You.
THE WORLD goes round, old fellow,
And still I’m in the swim,
While my wife’s second husband
Is growing old and grim.
I meet him in the city—
It all seems very tame—
He glances at me sometimes
As if I were to blame.
Oh, my wife’s second husband
Was handsome, young and true;
He had his boyish visions
(I had my visions too).
He made a model lover—
The greenest in the game—
They say, when I was married
That I was just the same.
Though I am ten years older
My hair is dark to-day,
While my wife’s second husband
Is quickly growing grey.
I drank when first he knew me,
And he drank not at all;
I see that he, through drinking,
Is going to the wall.
A sweet ill-treated woman,
A drunken brute (Good Lord!)—
Ah, well, she got her freedom,
And he got his reward.
He’ll fight it out a season,
For Fate will not be forced,
But my wife’s second husband
Shall surely be divorced.
I sympathize, and wonder
What mutual friends would think
If my wife’s second husband
And I should have a drink.
And I a mere bystander—
It almost seems absurd—
Might lay prophetically
My hand on my wife’s third.
But my wife’s second husband
His sorrows shall forget,
We’ll clasp warm hands in friendship
And clink our glasses yet.
We’ll smoke cigars together,
In pure philosophy,
While calmly contemplating
The fate of number three.
Screw the fate that makes you share a man.
One cuddles under cotton blankets; the other's cold.
Every now and then, well, maybe or maybe not,
once or twice a month, oh, it's like nothing.
You try to stick to it like a fly on rice
but the rice is rotten. You slave like the maid,
but without pay. If I had known how it would go
I think I would have lived alone.
Neither wife should try to punish
Nor make any attempt to finish
He will go down with lots of burden
If you add daily some concern
Give him log list of demand
To be supplied within week end
Wait for his outburst with anger
He shall prove as bad manager
If he fails to bring essential things
Serve his plate with simple things
He will know the tactics
But may not prove angry critics
He shall come to sense
But has to tolerate nonsense
As he has difficult in meeting
So he may have forced smile with greetings
Wife need not bother
Just watch and offer
Best of treatment
He will forget with idea of resentment
In the first rise and infancy of farce,
When fools were many, and when plays were scarce
The raw unpractis'd authors could, with ease,
A young and unexperienc'd audience please:
No single character had e'er been shown,
But the whole herd of fops was all their own;
Rich in originals, they set to view,
In every piece, a coxcomb that was new.
But now our British theatre can boast
Drolls of all kinds, a vast unthinking host!
Fruitful of folly and of vice, it shows
Cuckolds, and cits, and bawds, and pimps, and beaux;
Rough country knights are found of every shire;
Of every fashion gentle fops appear;
And punks of different characters we meet,
As frequent on the stage as in the pit.
Our modern wits are forc'd to pick and cull,
And here and there by chance glean up a fool:
Long ere they find the necessary spark,
They search the town, and beat about the Park,
To all his most frequented haunts resort,
Oft dog him to the ring, and oft to court;
As love of pleasure or of place invites;
And sometimes catch him taking snuff at White's
Howe'er, to do you right, the present age
Breeds very hopeful monsters for the stage;
That scorn the paths their dull forefather's trod,
And won't be blockheads in the common road.
Do but survey this crouded house tonight:
--Here's still encouragement for those that write.
Our author, to divert his friends to-day,
Stocks with variety of fools his play;
And that there may be something gay and new,
Two ladies-errant has expos'd to view;
The first a damsel, travel'd in romance;
The t'other more refin'd, she comes from France:
Rescue, like courteous knights, the nymph from danger,
And kindly treat, like well-bred men, the stranger.
King Yudhisthira,
The eldest of Pandavas-
You were the first
The first to wed me,
The first to woo me
into ways of conjugation,
The first to show me my Dharma,
My ways of wifehood
My moments of conjugal pleasure
shone with the Sun that was you,
of all my husbands
you were-
the softest at heart,
the love off your heart flowed
to my barren virgin soul
that made me wet with
all the sweet fragrances
of the world around.
Till that moment of conjugation
in that hour of that first night
I felt life -
a great riddle,
Puzzles drove me dizzy,
Questions numerous
made me crazy,
My breath was beyond
my control, like my wears
both outer and inner-
of my body, mind and soul.
I was a timid girl of sixteen
till I met you,
and till your arms
made me feel comfortable
and a friend at bay.
Oft, oft, methinks, the while with thee
I breathe, as from the heart, thy dear
And dedicated bame, I hear
A promise and a mystery,
A pledge of more than passing life,
Yea, in that very name of wife!
A pulse of love that ne'er can sleep!
A feeling that upbraids the heart
With happiness beyond desert,
That gladness half requests to weep!
Nor bless I not the keener sense
And unalarming turbulence.
Of transient joys, that ask no sting
From jealous fears, or coy denying;
But born beneath Love's brooding wing,
And into tenderness soon dying.
Wheel out their giddy moment, then
Resign the soul to love again;
A more precipitated vein
Of notes that eddy in the flow
Of smoothest song, they come, they go,
And leave their sweeter understrain
Its own sweet self-a love of thee
That seems, yet cannot greater be!
Chorus.—Robin shure in hairst,
I shure wi' him.
Fient a heuk had I,
Yet I stack by him.
I GAED up to Dunse,
To warp a wab o' plaiden,
At his daddie's yett,
Wha met me but Robin:
Robin shure, &c.
Was na Robin bauld,
Tho' I was a cotter,
Play'd me sic a trick,
An' me the El'er's dochter!
Robin shure, &c.
Robin promis'd me
A' my winter vittle;
Fient haet he had but three
Guse-feathers and a whittle!
Robin shure, &c.
What ever happened to the husband and wife
What ever happened to love
What ever happened to the dreams they thought right
That they both thought so much of
What ever happened to the holding of hands
Or the whispers of secrets to keep
Did it somehow slip away with the time
Is it somewhere still hidden beneath
What ever happened to the words I do
Replaced now with words of cruel
Does somehow it still linger on
Is love only lost and confused
What ever happened to the romance
And the love that was in each breath we took
Must somehow be forgotten now
Was this in the chances we took
What ever happened to the husband and wife
What ever happened to love
What will now happen to the rest of our lives
For love, was it overlooked
What will now happen to the dreams we once had
When the world was right at our feet
Is love somehow still hidden somewhere
Or is this the way it must be
There once was a time when it meant so much more
When love walked with us in life
What ever happened to the love in our hearts
What happened to the husband and wife.
copyright 2004 Bill Simmons
aka BillWilliamStar@aol.com
The persons who are under make up
as husband and wife in a fake drama,
If they don't do their duty perfectly
as per their character, it gives rise to ridicule!
known to all in their world,
While made them as husband and wife in reality;
if they don't develop good relationship,
the God who is handling the sportive drama
in this universe shall subject them
to hardship and make them feel grief!
Unless both the wife who has enormous love
…and the husband himself too unitedly taking vow,
decidedly drive the cart of highly beautiful and happy life;
And if it is driven by one of them only,
…the life will not run smoothly, the so called cart
of family life shall come to a standstill with hurdles!
WHEN Francis (named the first) o'er Frenchmen reign'd,
In Italy young Arthur laurels gained,
And oft such daring valour showed in fight,
With ev'ry honour he was made a knight;
The monarch placed the spur upon his heel,
That all around his proper worth might feel.
Then household deities at home he sought,
Where--not at prayers his beauteous dame he caught:
He'd left her, truly, quite dissolv'd in tears;
But now the belle had bid adieu to fears;
And oft was dancing joyously around,
With all the company that could be found.
GALLANTS in crowds Sir Arthur soon perceived;
At sight of these the knight was sorely grieved;
And, turning in his mind how best to act;
Cried he, Can this be truly held a fact,
That I've been worthy while I'd fame in view,
Of cuckoldom at home, and knighthood too?
It ought to be but half:--the truth let's know;
From constancy the purest blessings flow.
Then like a father-confessor he dressed,
And took his seat where priests their flock confessed.
His lady absolution sought that day,
And on her knees before him 'gan to pray;
The minor sins were told with downcast eyes,
And then for hearing those of larger size,
The husband-confessor prepared his ears:--
Said she, Good father, ('mid a flood of tears),
My bed receives, (the fault I fear's not slight,)
A gentleman, a parson, and a knight.
Still more had followed, but, by rage o'ercome,
Sir Arthur cut the thread, and she was mum;
Though, doubtless, had the fair been let proceed,
Quite long her Litany had been decreed.
THe husband, in a rage, exclaimed, thou jade,
A parson, say'st thou? t'whom dost think thou'st made
This curst confession?--To my spouse, cried she,
I saw you enter here, and came with glee,
Supposing you'd a trick to raise surprise;
Howe'er 'tis strange that one so very wise,
The riddle should not fully comprehend:--
A KNIGHT, the king created you, my friend;
A GENTLEMAN, your rank was long ago;
A PARSON, you have made yourself you know.
Good heav'ns! exclaimed the knight, 'tis very clear,
And I a blockhead surely must appear
By day and night, throughout all the day,
the husband crossing his legs one over the other,
his eyes fixed to the laptop computer,
if the wife swirling her tongue in her own way
in all the four cardinal directions
and showers not-to-be heard scolding words,
the husband nods his head affirmatively
and says 'yes! yes! you are right'!
EYES caught by beauty, fancy by eyes caught;
Sweet possibilities, question, and wonder--
What did her smile say? What has her brain thought?
Her standard, what? Am I o'er it or under?
Flutter in meeting--in absence dreaming;
Tremor in greeting--for meeting scheming;
Caught by the senses, and yet all through
True with the heart of me, sweetheart, to you.
Only the brute in me yields to the pressure
Of longings inherent--of vices acquired;
All this, my darling, is folly--not pleasure,
Only my fancy--not soul--has been fired.
Sense thrills exalted, thrills to love-madness;
Fancy grown sad becomes almost love-sadness;
And yet love has with it nothing to do,
Love is fast fettered, sweetheart, to you.
Lacking fresh fancies, time flags--grows wingless;
Life without folly would fail--fall flat;
But the love that lights life, and makes death's self stingless--
You, and you only, have wakened that.
Sweet are all women, you are the best of them;
You are so dear because dear are the rest of them;
After each fancy has sprung, grown, and died,
Back I come ever, dear, to your side.
The strongest of passions--in joy--seeks the new,
But in grief I turn ever, sweetheart, to you.
Yes, I have slain, and taken moving life
From bodies. Yea! And laughed upon the taking;
And, having slain, have whetted still the knife
For more and more, and heeded not the making
Of things that I was killing. Such 'twas then!
But now the thirst so hideous has left me.
I live within a coolness, among calm men,
And yet am strange. A something has bereft me
Of a seeing, and strangely love returns;
And old desires half-known, and hanging sorrows.
I seem agaze with wonder. Memory burns.
I see a thousand vague and sad tomorrows.
None sees my sadness. No one understands
How I must touch her hair with bloody hands.
The husband shall beautify and honor the chaste wife
who is waning due to service to him, his lovable
parents, children and welfare of other relatives
and work hard for many of their sake, yes!
We've lived for forty years, dear wife,
And walked together side by side,
And you to-day are just as dear
As when you were my bride.
I've tried to make life glad for you,
One long, sweet honeymoon of joy,
A dream of marital content,
Without the least alloy.
I've smoothed all boulders from our path,
That we in peace might toil along,
By always hastening to admit
That I was right and you were wrong.
No mad diversity of creed
Has ever sundered me from thee;
For I permit you evermore
To borrow your ideas of me.
And thus it is, through weal or woe,
Our love forevermore endures;
For I permit that you should take
My views and creeds, and make them yours.
And thus I let you have my way,
And thus in peace we toil along,
For I am willing to admit
That I am right and you are wrong.
And when our matrimonial skiff
Strikes snags in love's meandering stream,
I lift our shallop from the rocks,
And float as in a placid dream.
And well I know our marriage bliss
While life shall last will never cease;
For I shall always let thee do,
In generous love, just what I please.
Peace comes, and discord flies away,
Love's bright day follows hatred's night;
For I am ready to admit
That you are wrong and I am right.
A CERTAIN husband who, from jealous fear,
With one eye slept while t'other watched his dear,
Deprived his wife of every social joy,
(Friends oft the jealous character annoy,)
And made a fine collection in a book,
Of tricks with which the sex their wishes hook.
Strange fool! as if their wiles, to speak the truth,
Were not a hydra, both in age and youth.
HIS wife howe'er engaged his constant cares;
He counted e'en the number of her hairs;
And kept a hag who followed every hour,
Where'er she went, each motion to devour;
Duenna like, true semblance of a shade,
That never quits, yet moves as if afraid.
THIS arch collection, like a prayer-book bound;
Was in the blockhead's pocket always found,
The form religious of the work, he thought,
Would prove a charm 'gainst vice whenever sought!
ONE holy day, it happened that our dame,
As from the neighb'ring church she homeward came;
And passed a house, some wight, concealed from view;
A basket full of filth upon her threw.
WITH anxious care apologies were made;
The lady, frightened by the frolick played,
Quite unsuspicious to the mansion went;
Her aged friend for other clothes she sent,
Who hurried home, and ent'ring out of breath;
Informed old hunks--what pained him more than death
ZOUNDS! cried the latter, vainly I may look
To find a case like this within my book;
A dupe I'm made, and nothing can be worse:--
Hell seize the work--'tis thoroughly a curse!
NOT wrong he proved, for, truly to confess;
This throwing dirt upon the lady's dress
Was done to get the hag, with Argus' eyes
Removed a certain distance from the prize.
The gay gallant, who watched the lucky hour,
Felt doubly blessed to have her in his power.
HOW vain our schemes to guard the wily sex!
Oft plots we find, that ev'ry sense perplex.
Go, jealous husbands, books of cases burn;
Caresses lavish, and you'll find return.
Dearest Evelyn, I often think of you
Out with the guns in the jungle stew
Yesterday I hittapotamus
I put the measurements down for you but they got lost in the fuss
It's not a good thing to drink out here
You know, I've practically given it up dear.
Tomorrow I am going alone a long way
Into the jungle. It is all grey
But green on top
Only sometimes when a tree has fallen
The sun comes down plop, it is quite appalling.
You never want to go in a jungle pool
In the hot sun, it would be the act of a fool
Because it's always full of anacondas, Evelyn, not looking ill-fed
I'll say. So no more now, from your loving husband Wilfred.
The ardent fan ready before wedlock
To drop priorities for this loving dame
Dawn’s beverage with mesmerizing shock
Of even the newspaper now stuck to blame!
He tells you when you've got on
too much lipstick
And helps you with your girdle
when your hips stick.
There is no body without soul; there is no soul without body,
Similarly both the husband and wife, united together as one,
Should live like he cherishing flower and honey!
If the so called husband and wife differ and conflict,
So to say, it is similar to the living body and soul fight
With each other and they spoil themselves and get lost!
I hope that you realize your confessions are a burden to me
Much as I love you like a brother, your words are corrupting me
I don't really know what possesses you to unburden yourself to me
Is 'sister confessor' tattoed in my forehead for everyone to see
You claim that your wife is lovely and treats you right
So why on earth do you go to these clubs and have menage a trois
You say you feel so guilty, yet compartmentalize your life
Once her Lexus is out of the garage,  down the drain it goes your facade
I will never betray you, I will never tell her
And I want you to know I will not fall under your spell
Get over yourself, you juvenile clown
Get real, smell the coffee and frown
**10/12/08
Against the sunset's glowing wall
The city towers rise black and tall,
Where Zorah, on its rocky height,
Stands like an armed man in the light.
Down Eshtaol's vales of ripened grain
Falls like a cloud the night amain,
And up the hillsides climbing slow
The barley reapers homeward go.
Look, dearest! how our fair child's head
The sunset light hath hallowed,
Where at this olive's foot he lies,
Uplooking to the tranquil skies.
Oh, while beneath the fervent heat
Thy sickle swept the bearded wheat,
I've watched, with mingled joy and dread,
Our child upon his grassy bed.
Joy, which the mother feels alone
Whose morning hope like mine had flown,
When to her bosom, over-blessed,
A dearer life than hers is pressed.
Dread, for the future dark and still,
Which shapes our dear one to its will;
Forever in his large calm eyes,
I read a tale of sacrifice.
The same foreboding awe I felt
When at the altar's side we knelt,
And he, who as a pilgrim came,
Rose, winged and glorious, through the flame.
I slept not, though the wild bees made
A dreamlike murmuring in the shade,
And on me the warm-fingered hours
Pressed with the drowsy smell of flowers.
Before me, in a vision, rose
The hosts of Israel's scornful foes,--
Rank over rank, helm, shield, and spear,
Glittered in noon's hot atmosphere.
I heard their boast, and bitter word,
Their mockery of the Hebrew's Lord,
I saw their hands His ark assail,
Their feet profane His holy veil.
No angel down the blue space spoke,
No thunder from the still sky broke;
But in their midst, in power and awe,
Like God's waked wrath, our child I saw!
A child no more!--harsh-browed and strong,
He towered a giant in the throng,
And down his shoulders, broad and bare,
Swept the black terror of his hair.
He raised his arm--he smote amain;
As round the reaper falls the grain,
So the dark host around him fell,
So sank the foes of Israel!
Again I looked. In sunlight shone
The towers and domes of Askelon;
Priest, warrior, slave, a mighty crowd
Within her idol temple bowed.
Yet one knelt not; stark, gaunt, and blind,
His arms the massive pillars twined,--
An eyeless captive, strong with hate,
He stood there like an evil Fate.
The red shrines smoked,--the trumpets pealed
He stooped,--the giant columns reeled;
Reeled tower and fane, sank arch and wall,
And the thick dust-cloud closed o'er all!
Above the shriek, the crash, the groan
Of the fallen pride of Askelon,
I heard, sheer down the echoing sky,
A voice as of an angel cry,--
The voice of him, who at our side
Sat through the golden eventide;
Of him who, on thy altar's blaze,
Rose fire-winged, with his song of praise.
'Rejoice o'er Israel's broken chain,
Gray mother of the mighty slain!
Rejoice!' it cried, 'he vanquisheth!
The strong in life is strong in death!
'To him shall Zorah's daughters raise
Through coming years their hymns of praise,
And gray old men at evening tell
Of all be wrought for Israel.
'And they who sing and they who hear
Alike shall hold thy memory dear,
And pour their blessings on thy head,
O mother of the mighty dead!'
It ceased; and though a sound I heard
As if great wings the still air stirred,
I only saw the barley sheaves
And hills half hid by olive leaves.
I bowed my face, in awe and fear,
On the dear child who slumbered near;
'With me, as with my only son,
O God,' I said, 'Thy will be done!'
The woman with chastity
..Is like the nectar to her husband!
A person who is learnt and behaves accordingly
..Is like the nectar to the society!
A country with growth and welfare
..Is like the nectar to the king who rules!
The king who has his high flag raised up to the sky
..Will rule and do all good to the people in his country!
Similarly, while the soldier also does the favorable
..Deeds to the king, he is like nectar to the king!
Brighter than fireflies upon the Uji River
Are your words in the dark, Beloved.
This is to the crown and blessing of my life,
The much loved husband of a happy wife;
To him whose constant passion found the art
To win a stubborn and ungrateful heart,
And to the world by tenderest proof discovers
They err, who say that husbands can't be lovers.
With such return of passion, as is due,
Daphnis I love, Daphinis my thoughts pursue;
Daphnis, my hopes and joys are bounded all in you.
Even I, for Daphnis' and my promise' sake,
What I in woman censure, undertake.
But this from love, not vanity proceeds;
You know who writes, and I who 'tis that reads.
Judge not my passion by my want of skill:
Many love well, though they express it ill;
And I your censure could with pleasure bear,
Would you but soon return, and speak it here.
GRIM monarch! see, depriv'd of vital breath,
A young physician in the dust of death:
Dost thou go on incessant to destroy,
Our griefs to double, and lay waste our joy?
Enough thou never yet wast known to say,
Though millions die, the vassals of thy sway:
Nor youth, nor science, not the ties of love,
Nor ought on earth thy flinty heart can move.
The friend, the spouse from his dire dart to save,
In vain we ask the sovereign of the grave.
Fair mourner, there see thy lov'd Leonard laid,
And o'er him spread the deep impervious shade.
Clos'd are his eyes, and heavy fetters keep
His senses bound in never-waking sleep,
Till time shall cease, till many a starry world
Shall fall from heav'n, in dire confusion hurl'd
Till nature in her final wreck shall lie,
And her last groan shall rend the azure sky:
Not, not till then his active soul shall claim
His body, a divine immortal frame.
But see the softly-stealing tears apace
Pursue each other down the mourner's face;
But cease thy tears, bid ev'ry sigh depart,
And cast the load of anguish from thine heart:
From the cold shell of his great soul arise,
And look beyond, thou native of the skies;
There fix thy view, where fleeter than the wind
Thy Leonard mounts, and leaves the earth behind.
Thyself prepare to pass the vale of night
To join for ever on the hills of light:
To thine embrace this joyful spirit moves
To thee, the partner of his earthly loves;
He welcomes thee to pleasures more refin'd,
And better suited to th' immortal mind.
If ever two were one, then surely we.
If ever man were lov'd by wife, then thee.
If ever wife was happy in a man,
Compare with me, ye women, if you can.
I prize thy love more than whole Mines of gold
Or all the riches that the East doth hold.
My love is such that Rivers cannot quench,
Nor ought but love from thee give recompetence.
Thy love is such I can no way repay.
The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray.
Then while we live, in love let's so persever
That when we live no more, we may live ever.
My Darling can't you see?
How very much you mean to me?
On this Our day, I've come to say;
I love you more and more each day.
Mere words alone, cannot express;
The love I feel, the tenderness,
The joy, and happiness my dear;
In knowing you are always near.
When you are down, and feeling blue;
I hope the sun comes shining through,
To cheer you up, and make life glow;
Because my dear I love you so.
May the Lord bless and keep you in His way;
And guide your footsteps day by day;
And may your cup of life overflow;
Because my dear I love you so.
I leave for thee, beloved one,
The home and friends of youth,
Trusting my hopes, my happiness,
Unto thy love and truth;
I leave for thee my girlhood's joys,
Its sunny, careless mirth,
To bear henceforth my share amid
The many cares of earth.
And yet, no wild regret I give
To all that now I leave,
The golden dreams, the flow'ry wreaths
That I no more may weave;
The future that before me lies
A dark and unknown sea --
Whate'er may be its storms or shoals,
I brave them all with thee!
I will not tell thee now of love
Whose life, ere this, thou'st guessed,
And which, like sacred secret, long
Was treasured in my breast;
Enough that if thy lot be calm,
Or storms should o'er it sweep,
Thou'lt learn that it is woman's love,
Unchanging, pure and deep.
If this life's sunshine gild thy lot,
Bestowing wealth and pride,
Its light enjoying, I shall stand,
Rejoicing, at thy side;
But, oh! if thou should'st prove the griefs
That blight thy fellow-men,
'Twill be my highest, dearest right,
To be, love, with thee then.
And thou, wilt thou not promise me
Thy heart will never change,
That tones and looks, so loving now,
Will ne'er grow stern and strange?
That thou'lt be kind, whatever faults
Or failings may be mine,
And bear with them in patient love,
As I will bear with thine?
My life, My body is now shared,
But, it seems so fair,
As marriage made us pair,
Even though I dont always tell you,
I Love You,
Glad am married to you,
At times we are rough,
At times we are soft,
But, you always have a big heart,
That makes our love grow stronger,
I am lucky to be part of your life,
I am honoured to be your wife,
You shared my good times,
And at bad times stood like a rock,
I dream about our sweet yesterdays,
And our beautiful tommorow.
Never thought I could be loved so much,
But, you made me feel,
Year after year.
Everyday, Now I pray,
For the every new life,
I remain your wife.
Your eyes glimmer like bright stars on a dark night,
shining so beautifully, so hypnotic
The way you stare at me makes me feel so special,
Like I'm worth a million dollars, I cannot help but blush
Your smile is so warm and subtle,
spreading an aura of love around you like a glowing light,
Making the space between us full of serenity, my heart skips a beat
I feel a strong magnetic force when I'm around you, pulling me closer to you,
Yet I feel like there's a thousand miles distance between us,
Feeling like I'm not worthy of you, your just too perfect for me
Your always on my mind, my heart beats the sound of your name,
When I close my eyes I still see you, holding me
Giving me gentle kisses and soft cuddles,
Whispering my name
I feel so much serenity when I'm around you,
So lovingly caressed by your gentle touch,
There is an eternal bond between us, a bond that is unbreakable,
Untouched
My love for you is so amazing, it does not decrease
Even if you were to make me shed an ocean of tears,
When I think of you, my mind is filled with rhymes and verses of random sweet nothings,
But I'm no poet, I'm no Shakespeare
Our love is a never ending story, we will go through so many tests on this never ending journey,
We will fight and we will hurt one another,
But these are the steps towards making a true love story
O thou Most High who rulest all
And hear'st the prayers of thine,
O hearken, Lord, unto my suit
And my petition sign.
Into Thy everlasting arms Of mercy
I commend Thy servant, Lord.
Keep and preserve My husband,
my dear friend.
At Thy command, O Lord, he went,
Nor nought could keep him back.
Then let Thy promise joy his heart,
O help and be not slack.
Uphold my heart in Thee, O God.
Thou art my strength and stay,
Thou see'st how weak and frail I am,
Hide not Thy face away.
I in obedience to Thy will
Thou knowest did submit.
It was my duty so to do;
O Lord, accept of it.
Unthankfulness for mercies past
Impute Thou not to me.
O Lord, Thou know'st my weak desire
Was to sing praise to Thee.
Lord, be Thou pilot to the ship
And send them prosperous gales.
In storms and sickness, Lord, preserve.
Thy goodness never fails.
Unto Thy work he hath in hand
Lord, grant Thou good success
And favour in their eyes to whom
He shall make his address.
Remember, Lord, Thy folk whom Thou
To wilderness hast brought;
Let not Thine own inheritance
Be sold away for nought.
But tokens of Thy favour give,
With joy send back my dear
That I and all Thy servants may
Rejoice with heavenly cheer.
Lord, let my eyes see once again
Him whom Thou gavest me
That we together may sing praise
Forever unto Thee.
And the remainder of our days
Shall consecrated be
With an engaged heart to sing
All praises unto Thee.
Thou, who dost all my worldly thoughts employ,
Thou pleasing source of all my earthly joy:
Thou tend'rest husband, and thou best of friends,
To thee this first, this last adieu I send.
At length the conqu'ror death asserts his right,
And will for ever veil me from thy sight.
He wooes me to him with a chearful grace;
And not one terror clouds his meagre face.
He promises a lasting rest from pain;
And shews that all life's fleeting joys are vain.
Th' eternal scenes of heav'n he sets in view,
And tells me that no other joys are true.
But love, fond love, would yet resist his pow'r;
Would fain awhile defer the parting hour:
He brings thy mourning image to my eyes,
And would obstruct my journey to the skies.
But say, thou dearest, thou unwearied friend;
Say, should'st thou grieve to see my sorrows end?
Thou know'st a painful pilgrimage I've past ;
And should'st thou grieve that rest is come at last?
Rather rejoice to see me shake off life,
And die as I have liv'd, thy faithful wife.
i will love, cherish, and take care of you
all the days of my life.
for you have consented to be my wife.
i will honor and respect all your
beliefs and thoughts, for which you stood and fought.
you did not let anything distract or sway you
from your beliefs, which gave me a sense of relief.
because if anyone was able to sway you
in your younger years, we would not
find happiness and cheer.
you are strong, just like me
and you captured my heart and set me free.
and now that we are united as one
under the eyes of GOD.
i vow that we will never part.
and this will be the beginning
of our brand new start.
Wee wee husband,
Give me some money,
I have no comfits,
And I have no honey.
Wee wee wifie,
I have no money,
Milk, nor meat, nor bread to eat,
Comfits, nor honey.
Loving, caring, sharing and everything
taking me as such and my anything
giving me love, hope and peaceful life
making me his charming young little wife
Not just my friend and a dear husband
but my very soul till my very end
at least a second before him I should sleep
to enjoy that heavenly eternal bliss
less ambitious but more understanding
He gets me the ultimate that money can never buy
It ofcourse at times make me cry
The depth of his love is true
every minute cherishing it as new
husbands like him are very few
I love him, love him and love him too
Great will be our couple as days go by
Model will be we before we do die
love that will never have a try
for it all began with a hue and cry
but no more tears and fears
with my Man in my life to endear
I love this alot as his adorable wife
I love you darling husband, love you in life!
Dated: 5 January 2001
*obviously, I mean not him, but for the fact that he has to work so late so often... sigh.... :)
So, how did it happen?
Tell me. How, where and when?
And how dare you enchant me
with every dash of your pen?
How dare you turn this
(admittedly romantic-ish fool)
with a hug and a kiss
into your very own tool?
That Miss Independent, who would live on her own;
that 'I don't need anyone, I'm fine all alone',
that runner-awayer,
excusing delayer,
belligerently expecting
a life of neglecting....
wishing to have a retreat, to retain my own place,
to hold back at whim, have 'emotional space'....
Miss Independent!
Miss 'leave-me-alone'!
Miss 'I am hell-bent
on having time on my own! '
Miss 'Do not intrude, I will do it MY way'
Miss 'I am not listening - you may NOT have your say! '
How did it happen?
Tell me... when, how and where?
Reassure me, my husband, you'll always be there.
I was, I think, just quite simply Miss-judging
in what I have grown so to utterly loving.
And the Miss-this, Miss-that, and the Miss that was true
is only ever, in your absence, the 'Wife Misses You'.
xxxxxx
Nurtured, sheltered and loved
is the way I feel
whenever you are with me
I love you and you love me
the feeling gives me ecstasy
I believe you and you’ve believed in me
for all the time you’ve known me
Living with you
has been a dream come true
Cherishing every moment
I live with you
Wedded life has been bliss
You’ve given me a home, a son,
and an angel too,
A lovely daughter
for me and you...
A family to call my own,
I’m your blessed wife...
Having you as my husband
has been a ‘blessing in disguise’ for me!
Wife and husband
Are pious both
There is no
Sexual immorality
In them.
Let each man
Have his own wife
Let each woman
Have her own husband
Let the husband
Render to his wife
Affection due to her
Let the wife
Love her husband
The body of the husband
Belongs to his wife
And the body of the wife
Belongs to her husband
They do not deprive
One another except with
Consent and they should
Maintain self-control.
Self control is the best
For the good of the society.
Pardon the faults in me,
For the love of years ago:
Good-bye.
I must drift across the sea,
I must sink into the snow,
I must die.
You can bask in this sun,
You can drink wine, and eat:
Good-bye.
I must gird myself and run,
Though with unready feet:
I must die.
Blank sea to sail upon,
Cold bed to sleep in:
Good-bye.
While you clasp, I must be gone
For all your weeping:
I must die.
A kiss for one friend,
And a word for two,—
Good-bye:—
A lock that you must send,
A kindness you must do:
I must die.
Not a word for you,
Not a lock or kiss,
Good-bye.
We, one, must part in two;
Verily death is this:
I must die.
you seem so tired
you seem so exhausted
your not wanting steps
are clearly visible,
it makes me realize
things are not right
in our beautiful relationship;
your stupid'talks
your nonstop' songs
your gesture of love'
your kiss
your hugs-
were appreciated every time
it makes me smile;
my mood swings to right
honey! what has changed you and your mind?
honey! why you have become so quiet?
It is not enough to have our own identity.
Our individuality is just one layer, a small brick
In a multilayered cosmic structure.
We are part of a bigger world,
And wish to be part of that larger identity.
To be a mother-father, brother-sister,
Son or  daughter or a friend and relative
Is part of accepting that greater identity.
A social activity related to the service of others
Is rewarded by a sense of elation and stimulation.
In an environment where wider consciousness
Of a larger community is overlooked
Sense of oneness is diminished.
A segregated individual starts to
Suffer from malice of loneliness
Holding an insecure place
In a large body of universal existence.
i am reborn every morning
when i rise expecting
good things from the day
getting my dose of raw reality
as the day moves along
by nightfall i crawl into bed
remembering i have been through
this kind of thing before
the almighty identity crisis
every six or seven years
it comes without fail
i am uncomfortable feeling this frail
knowing i may change on the inside
or rearrange things on the outside
i should be used to it by now
my only consolation is in knowing
i will come out of it
stonger and more self-assured than beforehand
written 11-11-05
Two birds on the wing early morning,
Flying northward for a drink or a splash
Or simply to escape their quest for comfort;
Or no quest at all, but just a place to rest,
A refuge from always waiting for refuge.
I think that every life is a question
For which there is no single answer.
What if we think of every life
As an answer to an unspoken question?
It is a question of the unique singularity
Of what relates to that particular life.
I find felicity in momentary images.
In fine arts and music there may be
Some residues of birds soaring and gliding
On air currents that kindle sunlight at dawn.
A light green streak of wings across my view:
A little bird has flown away at dawn.
We cannot put metronomes to the waves of the sea.
Such art works happen in evanescence.
Enough to have become self-aware
As a momentary molecule of mute identity.
I know
Who you are,
But I don't know
Who I am.
I had one once -
an identity
having one meant
the world to me -
an identity
before it was
taken from me
i knew who i
was and who
i'd become
without it I
was no one -
lost identity
i no longer
understood
understood the
meaning of life
i need it back -
my identity
88
Notwithstanding how you view the morn,
Or see the sunrise and the dawn,
Over the high mountain Alps,
Or over the vast blue sea, or desert sand,
The sky shall be and always retain,
Its one single identity!
Notwithstanding how you share your
heart,
Or break it up into many parts,
And  share its love with many or few,
Your heart shall be one and the same,
A single heart it shall remain!
No matter how you live this life,
Through your childhood, manhood  and
old  age,
And  live through all its different stage,
Your life shall  be  one, just the same!
Since only one life is your  due,
Live it well and then bid  adieu!
Let us then share our lives and our hearts,
As we share the sky with life on earth,
And with mankind let us maintain,
A single identity forever retain!
We have no special identity but are one
It is accepted and denied by none
Still we involve and cross
Create the hurdles across
Forget the humanity
So much thrust for hostility
Shall we pray for fine out come?
Under one shed all are welcome
Blood is always thick and red
W are made to believe and fed
All untruths about worldly affairs
Nothing stands for good as fair
Shall we not abide by Divine dictates?
Does it not stand for anything good to indicate?
We still keep our selves in blind condition
Don’t miss any chance for providing ignition
Nothing prevents us from doing the good
It must be seen and clearly understood
We may be left behind in isolation
If we don’t keep up in tune or with relation
It moves on as per schedule
There is no prepared module
It may go on endlessly
We need not bother and go after it needlessly
It is reprieve from Him and very temporary
We must adhere to certain things and it is necessary
The life is precious and must be taken care of
It may not help you any time even if you cry wolf
Love to spend it in descent way and manner
At the end you will definitely be the gainer
It is natural law that every action has got reaction
There will be suitable reward for good action
Nothing goes unnoticed or unheeded
His blessings are always needed
We may not be able to move a single inch
Try for the good deal and clinch
A Wonder without an Identity
A poem by: Abdel latif Moubarak … Egypt
Translate by: Fawzy Al-Shalabi
A Wonder without an Identity
And the secret remains in your eyes a pearl
Expressing…everything which wasn't
So granted the heart a skater
And when the nights are narrowed us to live
Besieging us bundles of love sometimes
Trait of a thing… we aware …and touch
Lives in vibrations of the lightening
A wonder without an identity
In the silence was the nectar
And sneakily blaspheming in the pulse was the fire
Holding light of the hope
Playing surviving melody
Explosion crown of the polluted sadness
In blood…with the tears
And still a pleasure there in your eyes
A fertile nursery…the salvage
To the failures of a catastrophe touch
Sensing you in my blood
Crevices of freshened emotions
To land of such a plant
From the pain of the crowd
An existence
Decanting the sense state
From dispersion of the memory
All Nature is taught in radiant ways to move,
All beings are in myself embraced.
O fiery boundless Heart of joy and love,
How art thou beating in a mortal's breast !
It is Thy rapture flaming through my nerves
And all my cells and atoms thrill with Thee ;
My body thy vessel is and only serves
As a living wine-cup of Thy ecstasy.
I am a centre of Thy golden light
And I its vast and vague circumference,
Thou art my soul great, luminous and white
And Thine my mind and will and glowing sense.
Thy spirit's infinite breath I feel in me;
My life is a throb of Thy eternity.
See the cotton flower
It is most valuable,
Like the cotton flower
The true poet sacrifice
Himself for the welfare
Of others and forget
His own identity.
Thanks Tulsiji, you proved it.
sun- - dark
moon- - pale
dress- - mute
code- - no word
system- - close
open- - -shut
feed- - mark
ex- - -inhale
no- - -shoot
mode- - unheard
these- - those
yes- - -but
water- - ark
fin- - whale
swim- - nude
back- - forward
choose- - chose
drop-lifeless-hut
Holding in high esteem
My false self image
The granules of that image flow
Slipping thru the hour glass
Turning the hourglass
As many times
As repeated deceptions
And reincarnations
I insist upon,
The sand in unique arrangements
Slides thru the glass every time
Until I release the sand
Or the turning and be
The transparent glass.
Haiku-Identity
============
A bubble on the sea
To the sea asking what is
My identity.
i am, become...
i am the misconception,
and the fatal blow.
the angered action gone astray,
by the passionate soul.
i am the mortal in immortal,
and the man in human...
i am the patriot who rebels,
the soldier who puts down his gun.
the man who burns down the house
the day before the bank forecloses.
the worker whose pay they cut,
the citizen whose rights they took,
the husband and father, family gone!
i am the prisoner who's done his time,
the sinner baptized again and again.
the friend who takes the fall,
and gets back up to lend a hand.
i am the echo of a time passed by,
both right and wrong, good and bad...
i am the color of the human heart,
blood red, and beating strong!
i am the one who never quits,
who stands naked on hallowed ground.
my father's son, my mother's hope,
i am the same as you.
i am!  i am!
i shout and proclaim!
i am America's identity,
i am, become...
IDENTITY OF INDIVIDUAL
''''''''''''''''''''''
Date Of Birth,
Is a identity of individual.
Name,
Is a Identity of individual.
Address,
Is a identity of individual.
Signature,
Is a identity of individual.
Personality,
Is a identity of individual.
Profession,
Is a identity of individual.
knowledge,
Is a identity of individual.
Marriage,
Is a Identity of Individual
IDENTITY OF INVENTIONS
'''''''''''''''''''''''
Invention Of Filament,
Made Thomas Alva Edison,
A Identity of world.
Independence of India,
Made Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi,
The Identity of the world.
Service Towards The Poverty, Made Mother Therasa, The Identity of the world.
Discovering Searoute to India,
Made the Vasco da gama,
The identity of the world.
Invention of flights,
Made the Wright brother's,
The identity of the world.
PROVES OF IDENTITY.
''''''''''''''''''''
Sometimes, Somewhere, Somehow,
The Small Piece of paper scribbled,
Proves the big identity.
Sometimes, Somewhere, Somehow,
The Small Footage,
Proves the Big Identity.
Sometimes, Somewhere, Somehow,
The small thumb impression,
Proves the big identity,
Sometimes, Somewhere, Somehow,
The Date and Time,
Proves The big identity.
Sometimes, Somewhere, Somehow,
The purchase bill,
Proves the big identity.
IDENTITY OF ENVIRONMENT
'''''''''''''''''''''''
Bea utiful Flora And Fauna,
Gives a Cute Identity of Environment.
An Cleanliness Around Us,
Gives a Cute Identity of Environment.
Planting Plants And Trees,
Gives a Cute Identity of Environment.
Taking Care of Plants And Trees Like Child,
Gives a Cute Identity of Environment.
Allowing The Beautiful Birds, Away From Cage,
Gives a Cute Identity of Environment.
Identity: A Sonnet
That I am I, I surely know full well ;
I know my littleness and little place,
And how I feebly run my life's great race ;
Yet if an angel came with power to tell
Me how to be another I, and dwell
In his environment and ampler space,
Myself, annihilate; I'd set my face,
And be myself, though prisoned in a cell.
God made me, me, in changeless entity,
And could I be another, where were I ?
'Tis not that others are not nobler far ;
My light a spark, the while they sun-like shine
But living here or in some distant star,
Their lives are theirs, and mine for ever mine.
Write down !
I am an Arab
And my identity card number is fifty thousand
I have eight children
And the ninth will come after a summer
Will you be angry?
.
Write down!
I am an Arab
Employed with fellow workers at a quarry
I have eight children
I get them bread
Garments and books
from the rocks..
I do not supplicate charity at your doors
Nor do I belittle myself at the footsteps of your chamber
So will you be angry?
.
Write down!
I am an Arab
I have a name without a title
Patient in a country
Where people are enraged
My roots
Were entrenched before the birth of time
And before the opening of the eras
Before the pines, and the olive trees
And before the grass grew.
My father.. descends from the family of the plow
Not from a privileged class
And my grandfather..was a farmer
Neither well-bred, nor well-born!
Teaches me the pride of the sun
Before teaching me how to read
And my house is like a watchman's hut
Made of branches and cane
Are you satisfied with my status?
I have a name without a title!
.
Write down!
I am an Arab
You have stolen the orchards of my ancestors
And the land which I cultivated
Along with my children
And you left nothing for us
Except for these rocks..
So will the State take them
As it has been said?!
.
Therefore!
Write down on the top of the first page:
I do not hate poeple
Nor do I encroach
But if I become hungry
The usurper's flesh will be my food
Beware..
Beware..
Of my hunger
And my anger!
Identity controls behaviour
Identity controls emotions
Identity controls how we think
Identity controls behaviour.
Identity determines behaviour
Identity determines feeling
Identity determines our mental pictures
Identity determines behaviour.
We do not rule our believing
Our believing rules us
Our believing rules how we think
We do not rule our believing.
Identity controls behaviour
Believing controls identity
Identity is borne in what we believe
Who do you believe you are?
There are so many
People that are going
Through that Identity crisis
Right now
I'm dazed and confused
I'm tired of being used
It is not me that you see
It is just your fantasy
It's an identity crisis
An identity crisis
Work all day for my pay
doing it the bosses way
At night I'm a fright
Wondering if all is right
It's an identity crisis
an identity crisis
Weekends here need a beer
Gotta get out of here
On the road one my hog
Acting like a dog
It's and identity crisis
An Identity crisis
All weekend long having fun
Riding in the sun
Seeing sights that I like
While sitting on my bike
It's and Identity crisis
An identity crisis
Sunday night come
The fun is done
Sleeping in my home
Feeling like a drone
It's an Identity crisis
An identity crisis
To the P.H management....
I've been suffering
A loss of identity lately
I'm sure that you can see
That the person I once was
Is not currently who I be...
I've been feeling slightly odd lately
And I wish that I could say
That I'll be over it quite quickly
But I think I've lost my way...
My bearings are all boggled
And I've gotten all mixed up
Am I really upside down...
Or is it actually downside up? ?
I have no wish to offend thee
But surely you can see
If you give me back my maple leaf
I'll be as happy as can be! !
Dee Daffodil (HW)  11 Sep,2007
IDENTITY CRISIS
I took birth as daughter,
My  identity was of a daughter,
Then i became beloved and wife,
I framed myself in a house,
Then i became a mother,
I am in a fix,
To think,
About my real identity
Identity gives a meaning to life,
A sense of belonging in a society,
And helps one define oneself in oneself.
To lean this way is to go away from that.
Identity is a stake you cling to.
Identity is a mould you fix to.
Anything we think we are, becomes a trap,
A restriction to be something else.
You join a movement to share its force.
In the meanwhile, you lend it your force.
Subsequently you lose your independence
In judging and mortgage yourself to it.
Be in a set up not to be fanatic.
Being neither distantly isolated
Nor absolutely  identified
With anything is freedom to enjoy.
20.09.2014
From the alpine windswept quartz
rose the beautiful Frau Schwarz.
Wrote a comment erudite
(every member has that right)
but the toes of fruity cakes
cannot carry what it takes
'be a man' Frau Schwarz did ask
but it was a hopeless task.
He could neither cause delete
to her words, so in defeat
he turned all his dull attention
to another, just to mention
that he knew that Mrs. Schwarz
in her inner heart of hearts
would not criticise or knock
any Arizona cock.
So the answer simply must
be that someone full of frust
took on her identity
just to comment and to pee
on his eye-brow-raising work.
Boy he must be such a jerk.
Now the story makes more sense
people like his poems, hence
he can go back to the school
doesn't look like such a fool.
Yet, there is a little flaw
once you go into the draw
with the world of those who can
you come out a tiny man.
Identity loss
You are victim of your own perception
It is fast changing nation
With different people at various levels
It is really turning into heaven from hell
Previously it existed
With race and cast riddled
You were subjected to harassment
But not now we find at present
If you fail to adjust
With temperament and trust
It may worsen further
With more and more anger
You are not persecuted on religion ground
Even though you may be not favorably found
Our country is full of diversity
You need to find own circle and remain happy
If you are educated little more
You shall feel always sore
That you are not finding equal and intelligent people
Here sometimes persons tends to feel loss of individuality
On the contrary, people are resorting to caste
They have got privilege test
They find room for further progress
Whereas qualified people get no easy access
I have identity with you
It is my love.
I find here no sin no virtue
I find here no bondage no salvation.
I have identity with you
I am sure I am in truth.
Identity crisis
My identity is intact, see.
Here is my knowledge
And my real position, see.
Actually I am not lost
Though I am lost.
False identification is
of no use, see.
I am a living entity
I can never be lost.
I am not thinking
What I am not.
Actually I am lost
And my identity is intact.
Identity of a person
Identity signifies complexity
Identity identifies with reality
Identity is the bearer of all vanity
How does a person identify with identity?
You define yourself based on what?
They say, they say
You’re kind or moral based on what?
Or
You’re a genius and shrewd based on what?
Or
You make the perfect lover, look for no other
They say, they say
You’re strong without a thought it may not last long
Or
You’ve skills since with a record you run up high bills
Or
You are shy but no one ever talks to you or says hi
Or
You never give up because right now you are on top
They say, they say
You are generous or gregarious when all you are is conscious
Or
You’re innovative yet not the originator of the idea conceived
What are the facts?
That makes your identity intact
When change on identity has the last impact?
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I am fighting furiously with animals and bottles
In a short time perhaps ten hours have passed one
after another
The beautiful swimmer who was afraid of coral wakes
this morning
Coral crowned with holly knocks on her door
Ah! coal again always coal
I conjure you coal tutelary genius of dreams and my
solitude let me let me speak again of the beautiful
swimmer who was afraid of coral
No longer tyrannize this seductive subject of my
dreams
The beautiful swimmer was reposing in a bed of lace
and birds
The clothes on a chair at the foot of the bed were
illuminated by gleams the last gleams of coal
The one that had come from the depths of the sky and
earth and sea was proud of its coral beak and great
wings of crape
All night long it had followed divergent funerals toward
suburban cemeteries
It had been to embassy balls marked white satin gowns with
its imprint a fern leaf
It had risen terribly before ships and the ships had not
returned
Now crouched in the chimney it was watching for the
waking of foam and singing of kettles
Its resounding step had disturbed the silence of nights
in streets with sonorous pavements
Sonorous coal coal master of dreams coal
Ah tell me where is that beautiful swimmer the swimmer
who was afraid of coral?
But the swimmer herself has gone back to sleep
And I remain face to face with the fire and shall remain
through the night interrogating the coal with wings of
darkness that persists in projecting on my monotonous
road the shadow of its smoke and the terrible
reflections of its embers
Sonorous coal coal pitiless coal
Identity is not what I promise others
Identity is what I do when I am alone
Identity is what I think of others
Knowing all the hatred they've shown
Identity is what every wound reminds me
Identity is what I learn and what I pass by
Identity is what I see in the mirror
After giving my best try
Identity is what I make out of my given chance
Identity is what I accept and what I deny
No one else has control over me
Life is about me, and what I identify
I believe not
In any slogan or
In any award
Or in any power
Or in road-show
Or in tomorrow.
.
I know I have
No voice here
As because I am
Poor and in poverty.
But I am sure
It is for me
The identity of
My land is here.
I suffer from the worldliness
I suffer in silence
A loss of identity
Adience
I think
You give me
A sense of identity
Love
(2009/11/9)
This is to the motherland,
Where I am born.
This is to the teacher,
Who taught me nothing.
This is to my lover,
Who turned away from me.
Many are there to address,
Very few to notice.
What have you taught me?
Why the hell you came in?
Why did I even open my eyes mother!
Hybridity, Modernization, Temporary.
Yes, You all have lost me,
Lost your identity in my life.
Dedicated to the ones who have lost their identity.
Thala Abhimanyu Kumar
Dated: 25/08/2019
I wonder if the trees can hear me
When I scream aloud,
Or if the dandelion screams,
When I pick him out.
There's no telling where life can take us;
One day I'm a blade of grass,
But today I am myself-
Nobody else.
Life chooses  for me to be me.
I asked myself who iam.
I was looking for identity.
I felt the silent of my soul.
No answer.
I looked at the stars one by one.
They asked for identity too.
Look at me,
it's not my true identity
I have a covert identity,
i wonder if you'd ever see,
my thoughts, my deeds
are all that makes me
but something I may do
may not describe me.
My true identity
has fled me,
fled me to another
to my friends and family
my true identity
is all that makes me.
So lost deep inside
if its not for my soul
i would[d be lost again
my true identity
is hard to see.
Accept who you are
recognize your own beauty
identity isn't a need,
your identity should be your own
a better person you will be known
this is me, this is my identity
my true identity is all full of beauty.
In the crowd of this creation
Who is ours and who is not?
For a moment, felt someone known
The next moment he was gone..
Dreamt of that deep faith
Which disappeared as the droplet..
Do we recognize ourselves
In our conscious mirror?
Need  to keep ourselves protected
In the crowd, to save us
From Being lost!
Listen identity
my name was chosen
by my parents
before I came
and after birth
a note was bound
at my toe what a shame
My parents
called my name
and my heart beats
but I was a human
without an ID-card
also when I fall asleep
My identity
is not my passport
not my name
not my land
not what I write
with my free hands
My identity
is not my color
not my size
not my language
or my character
even not my price
My identity
is not my dental filling
my eye color
or my hair
not my fingerprint
my job or my salary
My identity
is different
from me
because it is
given
to separate me
Separates me
from girls and boys
even from twins
and natural
toys
Separates me
from religions
politics and class
is written
in my document of birth
and my testament at last
This identity
is given by state
to control
where I am
even to find me
paying no toll
But my own
identity is my life
are my parents
is my wife
are my children
and my friends
my identity
IS
the promised land
is the playground of my soul.
(c)     All Rights Reserved
Floy Dy Ra,09/22/2012
aka Floyd Floydson
An individual identity
That matters in community
Reckoned in personal circles
Identity, the word crucial.
Identity in better meanings
The individual reputation
That is relevant and important
Identity of a human being
That is everywhere taken up.
Service to the society
Kindness to the deserving
Character and integrity
Yardstick of identity.
Man a social being
Everywhere, in every circles
His identity reckons
Make the identity in such goodness.
My sleeves hide my identity,
the side you’ll never know,
the side I’m ashamed of
and the side I’ll never show
Deep in the night
I feel the icy need
For this life to end
And me to do the deed
But this fear holds me back
This fear of death and life
yes it sounds messed up
But it evens out with a knife
The knife that slices my skin
Marring my soul forever
You’ve just cracked the surface
Love will end this endeavor
Identity, fragile image of broken mirrors
The start of hope and banished fears
Razor time cuts into the innocence
Fallen gardens of an empires deluge
Travel the stars in moonlit sin
Identity is a strange foreign land
Reflections of solitude beneath the mask
Rainy night pounds with thunder
Identity is an endless hunger
Truest is my identity
Truest I'm here.
I'll not shy, I'll not pretend
Coz now I don't have any fear.
Fear, That sucked me up
Was a dark black cloud to me ever
Once ruled me as a ruling king
Forced me to be his slaved queen forever.
He thought to possess me
And to leave me never.
Was darkest of all the darkness
Became a Rival lover.
His strength was really promising
Capturing me in my veins
But was actually unaware
Of my psychic powers and brains.
I came to my real I
And they all (fears) became the greatest lie
Me became the truest truth
Evil fears will surely die.
Dig deep
Who are you
What do you want
How do you want be seen and remembered
Dig deep
What makes you happy, frustrated, angry, peaceful, free
Yeah the world tells you who to be
Blurs your vision
Smears away your identity
So take hold
Embrace this moment for yourself
Define your own identity
Reflect on how to achieve what makes you happy
Done scrambling around
Trying to please all others' wants
Put your wisdom first and the rest is sure to come
Identity please security do ask
As you show them your identity pass
They look at it letting you through
But its that plastic card really you
That snapshot image of your face
Is not what your identity makes
Your true Identity is much more complex
Something a mere image doesn’t reflects
The way you care or feel is part of you
Your inner soul we hope keeps you true
Perhaps you have a real gift
Or maybe others spirits you do lift
It’s the way you laugh and joke
Or the way you give others hope
Perhaps its that you fight so hard
Or that no one can ever beat u at cards
Or that you are a great cook
Identity is not just how you do look
Its how you act think what you find true
That’s the identity of being you
Our life experiences aren't the same.
We have our own personalites
And that's o.k.
But when that image has been changed.
By others who condemn you in everyway.
U struggle to keep yourself afloat.
When who you are, you seem not to know.
The journey to find one's self seem unsure.
The inner self broken and bruised.
Not to fear, theirs more in me.
Despite, the events that try hard to be.
My Identity is God's gift to me.
Everyone's unique, with much diversity.
So with God's grace put upon me.
Identity is also an inner beauty
That has yet to be seen.
She doesn’t know
what i’m on the other side
friend or foe!
i don’t know
the other side hides her
she doesn’t show!
consciously we don’t peep
it's how we keep
the mystery jealously!
Life is a Visiting Card so, show it
Wife is a Memory Card, so store it
Husband is an ATM Card, so squeeze it
Girl friend is a Debit Card, so hide it
Neighbour is a Greeting Card, so enjoy it
Sister-in-law is a Recharge Card, so charge it
Mother and Father is Pan Card so respect it
Brother-in-law is a duplicate card, so file it
Child is an identity card, so save it
But Friends are "AADHAR CARD", so gather it.
SOMEWHERE--in desolate wind-swept space--
In Twilight-land--in No-man's land--
Two hurrying Shapes met face to face,
And bade each other stand.
"And who are you?" cried one a-gape,
Shuddering in the gloaming light.
"I know not," said the second Shape,
"I only died last night!"
Identity is not what I promise others
Identity is what I do when I am alone
Identity is what I think of others
Knowing all the hatred they've shown
Identity is what I make out of my given chance
Identity is what I accept and what I deny
No one else has control over me
Life is about me, and what I identify
Identity is what every wound reminds me
Identity is what I learn and what I pass by
Identity is what I see in the mirror
After giving my best try
But this mirror shows a reflection
of a mind that wavers thin
along the line
that savours pain
my friends and fam keep saying to me
behind the surface
we know its you
its you we know
we know your through
we know your done man, your gone
But thats not what I believe
I just got lost on the way
I know I can
untie these hands
and find my way again
To my real identity
Full of entity
its just this mirror staring back at me
I keep telling it
Mirror, mirror
Surly you do lie.
We don’t see eye to eye.
Your image is surly haunting.
My self-esteem you’re taunting
Are you showing my insides?
Why cant you give me pride?
It really ain't fair
I cant help but stop and stare
Now you’re smashed in thousands
A thousand me’s surrounding
look at me
it's not my true identity
Your showing me that I have a covert identity,
i wonder if you'd ever see,
my thoughts, my deeds
are all that makes me
but something I may do
may not describe me.
My true identity
has fled me,
fled me to another
to my friends and family
my true identity
is all that makes me.
So lost deep inside
if its not for my soul
i would be lost again
my true identity
is hard to see.
My message is to
Accept who you are
recognize your own beauty
identity isn't a need,
your identity should be your own
a better person you will be known
this is me, this is my identity
my true identity is all full of beauty and entity
I was not what I was
I'm not what I am
The stream that flows in me
Is no more transparent and polish the pebbles
I can't no more mutter the songs
Of the lonely cow-herd and stop his flute
I can't attract the virgin sitting on the stone
As she washes her dreams I ogle at the pink breasts
Passing silently within confines of my sandy shores;
I was not what I was
I am not what I am
The moon has lost faith upon me
In the henna scented nights
I invite the owl to dropp the remnants of a mouse
Hanging from its beak;
It breaks the mirror
The moon gets scared and melts like wax;
I was not what I was
I am not what I am
The dead leaves are left in the banks
The worms crept through their veins
Poodles are silent in the paw marks
Half reflecting the clouds in opaque lens
I vow to die in the muddy floor
As crabs move straight in a crazy dance
I was not what I was
I am not what I am
As I was hoisted into the void
The pallid sun gets its life
My body turns from blue to grey
The lightening acts as a treacherous knife
The fall is ominously great
The lap is full of thorn and ignorance is rife
I was not what I was
I am not what I am
Rock Brokened
Melt in Stream
Tree Grows
Humen  Ate and Fell
laid Name Stone
They all try to look the same
all try to give themselves a name
pick on the boy who is all alone
just because his identity is his own
what has this world come to?
all this wrong that people do
just for the image they want to show
down the evil path they seem to go
The next person you go to hurt
or try to make feel like dirt
instead of trying to look cool
feel for the guy you make look a fool
A cool identity isn't a need
let those you bully be freed
Your identity should be your own
A better person you will be known.
A hidden terrorism,
Without an iota of shame-
This vile plagiarism-
More than stealing a name.
A written poem or story
Is a writer's signature
Stealing it is very
Viciously impure.
For taking on another
Person's work of art
Is like robbing him of self
Taking out his heart.
Putting on his person,
It's identity theft!
Whatever is your reason
I hope you end up deaf.
(And blind too.)
''Do not fret because of evil men, or be envious of the wicked,
for the evil man has no future hope, and the lamp of the wicked
will be snuffed out.'
Proverbs 24: 19-20
......................... ................................................. ......
April 7,2009  Tarlac City Philippines
Identity
Where is my identity
That I can show you
I am that, I am this,
And how can I show you
That I am Yours.
I am covered with falsehood
I am Truth and Truth has
No identity as You know,
No identity, no affinity,
And here I am in distress,
And here I am in dark .
O my dear, enlightened me
With knowledge that I am Yours.
I  lOST  MY  IDENTITY
Believe me! I lost entity of my own shadow
When I followed shadows of so - called greats.
Sometimes Nietzsche ruled my fresh mind
Sometime Jesus appeared to rectify them.
I intend to perceive myself as Buddha
But my behaviour favoured Hitler then.
Do their souls embody inside me?
Or my own soul is dead alive then
I gaze at my own plain mirror
I can't find reflection of mine.
I'm searching myself inside me
But not capable to find out yet.
Shall I manage for meditation
Or need to seek for revolution.
I need to visualise myself inside me
To establish  myself as an unique me.
I need to preserve my fresh image
To ensure my own precious identity.
Invisible identity
Unlimited forms eternally.
Effective and complete
Manifestation forms externally
And internally.
Measurement of life made
From movement to movement
That is Potency of Almighty.
Not visible in this world
And it is beyond any estimation.
Losing identity
I accept everything
I push myself back
I support myself straight.
You remember me
As I remember you
I accept you whole
Not forgetting
A single mole.
Loss of identity
Greed has poisoned
War hawks has reasoned
More countries should come under heel
Say yes for yes and surrender at will
There is rise of new kind of nationalism
Like china, they profess spread of communism
"Power grows out of the barrel of gun"
The administration may automatically run
The fundamentalist has another concept
They have added bloodbath in their acts
They blast at populated places
Create terror and spread fears
Those days have gone
When people use to come out in streets and shown
Black flags for their non acceptance
Now where is leadership who has nationalist sense?
Now it is family who wants to rule
Nawaz Sheriff* has been convicted for corruption
Tejaswi Yadav* has been shown door
Many more are awaited for ouster
Preference and discrimination must stop
The students must rise to the top
They must be provided carrier and opportunity
Today there is danger of losing identity
Nawaz Sheriff….. Prime Minister of Pakistan
Tejaswi Yadav…. Deputy Chief Minsiter of U.P.
It was chillingly true.
You walked out─
of the soot, without
leaving any footprints.
There were some very
hard questions. Why─
did you snap,
while sparrows were mating?
Carnage. The roses
were burning inside. The
red cherries shriek and
run for the amnesty.
On the terrace, the yellow
moon descends for a─
word. Why the nukes were
pointed towards the spiders?
Lost Identity
"Who am I? "
-this question has, for years
-too many, many years, has always
-been with me, followed me, bothered me.
Time took me
-to cities like Tehran
-and later, to others, San Anton,
-Laredo, in Texas, USA to London
To over hundred, if not two and further.
In times I did research
-dined and talked and questioned
-found many Africans in States; forced slaves.
-Saw Jordan's national dance come from Circassia.
Was lost on commenting
-when friend informed me of parents:
- "Japanese, Korean"
History; as I heard in Seoul
-and elsewhere, says:
- "They are foes! "
But Russian Racism
-even the Soviets'
-Racism
Made the Non-Russians' life
-in Gulag, to unite…
They were born over there
-were raised there but passports
-till time of Gorbachev
-considered… "Not-Russian."
Now, after many years
-in passports are Russians
-but what of origin?
-Japan and Korea? !
Lost identity.
My dream as a child.
Became a passion in my youth.
To search for my identity.
And search for the truth.
I differentiated myself from every other mortal.
I differentiated myself for a subtle known cause.
To be the best amongst all of them.
And to prevent them not to know of my identity loss
The good that I achieved
Doesn’t seem to be no more
Or probably it wasn’t good enough
For my conscience to be sure
I was probably the most competitive
In an effort to establish my superiority
I’m still to reach that ultimate position
To re-establish my lost identity.
written by salma torrez. copyright
In this spiritual blindness
I hope and seek in vain
for words of lovingkindness
to ease the dreary pain.
The pain of utter loneliness,
which most of us are spared
that comes when life's experiences
and thoughts cannot be shared.
I long in my self-sympathy
to reach some other soul,
with satisfying empathy
to make my being whole.
In truth I long not all for thee
for ofttimes comes the cry,
'Where is the one who should be me?
My soul, my self,  my 'I'?
To strive for love of mother,
of father, of teacher, of peers,
of elders, springs from
identity crisis.
To strive for love of the beloved
is out the deepest identity crisis.
Seers like women followers.
04.11.2001, Pakd
LOW FINISTERRE 1007 LOSING ITS IDENTITY BY THE SAME TIME
It’s BBC Radio 4
but the familiar
litany of
THE SHIPPING FORECAST
is alas...maimed
not the same.
They changed
a national institution
of the mind
redeveloped the mental landscape.
They have even dare to have it
moved
by 15 minutes
and renamed
FINISTERRE
...FITZROY.
L ike
...why?
It isn’t cricket
...is it?
This the beloved
Lord’s Prayer of places.
Not even a great British
outrage could save it
change
the changes.
For years
its well worn sounds
embedded in
our head
the national psyche
as we drifted off
to sleep
perchance to dream
with SAILING BY.
But secretly we recite
night by night
re-instating
FINISTERRE
le tting FITZROY
sink to the bottom of our minds
drown
as we cuddle up
to the long loved
old familiar
sounds.
*******
Con sternation was caused when a name change was brought about in Feb.2002 and the well known and well worn sound of FINISTERRE was transformed into FITZROY. It was as if one had attacked a living person...a great British institution and there was uproar and pandemonium.
But FITZROY  won the day and the man who carried Darwin on the BEAGLE and invented the weather forecast was the new sound in town. He was a Christian creationist and never forgave himself for evolving Darwin and indeed committed suicide later on in life over the grief of this.)
I prefer the world’s end feeling and sound of FINISTERRE but...there ya are!
Mama Africa's identity,
And of the Fulanis and the Fulbes;
But the Savannah and the Sahara are here to stay in Africa.
Mama Africa's identity,
And of the Dogons and the Shilluks;
And of the cowries usedas money in those days,
But the identities of the African are in many faces.
It is like a durbar in Africa and,
At the market plac to meet others;
But a visit to the tomatoes market in Ghana will tell you much.
Mama African's identity,
And like 'the Golden Stool' of the Ashanti Kingsdom!
But wait for the dried-fish on the coasts of Africa.
Visit St. Louis in the delta of Senegal and learn about the ways of the African,
For my home i in El Molo;
And like Mama Africa's identity praising my muse.
Mama African's identity,
And of the pygmies in Central Africa!
But i have my mind on the Rift Valley,
And like the mirror of the rivers, lakes and the seas of Africa! !
The Massai and the Dinka do play their roles,
And like the Nubaians in South Sudan;
But with the temperature above 40 degrees in most parts of Africa.
Mama Africa's identity,
And like a message to my lover in Lalibala;
For early in the morning came the leopards to drink some water,
But a visit to Mount Meru will entice you.
Mama Africa's identity,
And of the Zulus and the Rendilles;
But the Afars are here to blend with the dry land.
Mama Africa's identity,
With the rhythms and rituals of the Africans!
And like the tribes of Ovambo, Herero, Xhosa, Shona and Matabele.
And like the Bemba, the Tonga and the Ovaimbundu!
But the red land of Africa care for you all.
Mama Africa's identity,
And of River Limpopo in the mist of love;
But try to visit the Victoria Falls to satisfy your curiosity.
Mama Africa's identity,
And of the Himbas with their traditional dance;
But the Kikuyu, the Hutu, the Tutsi and the Hambukushu are also there,
For Africa is a very big continent for all of us.
The thief of my Identity
To my Friends and Family
My true Identity
Is all that makes me
I stole my identity
My personality
What I live for, What I breath for
What I'd fight for, what I'd die for
If not for my soul,
I would be lost once again
For my True Identity has fled me
Fled me for another
It is the dancing shadow you play with,
The beauty you can see in yourself,
And the hostility.
It wants to see you suffer,
It is most content, when you are in despair.
When I can look into my self
and find the real Identity of my inner self,
Until then I will not blame anyone
for my misfortune
There are many times I have been mistaken
for something I am not.
People mistake me as an ordained priest,
but in fact, I am not.
You could call me an actor
who just happens to live the part.
Admittingly I do most things
a real priest would in their lives do,
give comfort to the sick and dying
and other things do.
However please do not be mistaken
that is not acting, its just part of my personality,
something I have always done
even before I got the part.
Those who needed my words of comfort
always seemed to find me,
and I would never turn them away.
Don’t ask me why I am this way;
there is no answer I can give you.
I hate to see suffering
whether it be in friend or foe.
I made a promise to myself
a long, long time ago
that if I could make someone smile
each and every day,
then I would be smiling too.
There have been a very few times occasions
when that promise has been broken,
because sometimes I could not do it.
They were mainly when
great sadness caught up with me,
but most of the time you will find me
with a smile on my face
and mischievous twinkle in my eye.
That is because at heart
I am something of a clown
and a practical joker.
One thing I am not
and something I will never be
is what many people call me,
and that is an angel
as there are too many faults
that lie behind me.
14 August 2008
The mother lay in a stupor filled
With alcohol and drugs,
The twins lay wet in the carry-cot
And screamed at the top of their lungs,
The boyfriend of the moment sat
At a bar in a nearby town,
Drinking away the welfare cheque
And taking them further down.
Sally Pearce was a homely girl
As such, and easily led,
Many a teenage male had found
His way to her maiden bed,
They bought her favours with alcohol
And hooked her on cocaine,
They so befuddled her mind that she
Could not remember her name.
So Jack had her in the morning when
The sun was low in the sky,
While Derek had her lunch when she
Had snorted coke, and was high,
She carried the seeds of both of them
And both of them found a home,
Embedded deep in her ovaries
As she lay drugged out, alone.
So when she heard she was having twins
She didn't know who to blame,
But thought it must be the first of them
So gave the twins Jack's name,
She didn't know that their fathers were
As different as chalk and cheese,
For Jack passed on a criminal gene
While Derek passed S.T.D's.
The first one born was Timothy,
With a mop of jet black hair,
Then twenty minutes to follow on
Came Adam, so pale and fair,
They could have been Cain and Abel
If she'd only studied the book,
For Adam was such a happy child
While Tim had an evil look.
She hardly saw them growing up
They learned to fend for themselves,
They'd go and ransack the kitchen
Pulling the food right off the shelves,
The boyfriends came and the boyfriends went
In a long, continuous line,
They didn't know what a father was
Nor a mother, most of the time.
The only love that they ever knew
Was their love for the brother twin,
For they were the only constants as
The others came out and in,
While Adam took to his books and proved
A whiz at Math in his school,
Timothy fought a constant war
To tell the truth, he was cruel.
He punched the boys and tortured the girls
And dipped their plaits in the ink,
Protected Adam from bullies and fools
But never had cause to think,
Adam went on to Uni while
Timothy took to the street,
Dealing in drugs, and taking home
Enough for his mother to eat.
Adam had met a girl called Gaye
She liked that his eyes were brown,
He gave her his sophomore ring one day
Escorted her round the town,
She wanted to meet his brother, Tim
But Adam would not be drawn,
He said that his brother had gone away
‘Til he called one day, to the dorm.
Timothy's eyes had met with Gaye's
And they felt a shock of delight,
For opposites often attract, they say,
As day will follow on night,
For Gaye was ripe with an innocence
That will fall for an evil spell,
So Timothy started meeting her
In the quad, by the old stairwell.
They found her body at Easter-time
Down an old storm-water drain,
Raped and beaten, her throat was cut,
And they said, ‘He must be insane! '
Adam was taken down to the cells
And grilled for almost a day,
‘You were the girl's last boyfriend,
We'll be taking your D.N.A.'
The D.N.A. was almost a match
Enough for a guilty plea,
While Adam strongly denied the charge,
‘It certainly wasn't me! '
He didn't mention his brother's name,
But hoped he would see the day
When Timothy came to visit him,
But Timothy went away.
They came for him in the dawning light
And marched him into the shed,
His lips were trembling as he stood
And bit his lip ‘til it bled,
‘Any last words you'd like to say
Before you pay for your sin? '
The rope had tightened around his neck
When he almost whispered, ‘…'
22 November 2012
I thought it was the wind
Roaring like a lion
Dressed in golden helmet
With goggled eyes
And
Silver streaked body
Glimmering in the spot light
Of morning sun...
Until it...fast moving thing
Braked to a halt at the red light
And I saw it was you
And your Honda
Travelling south!
Mistaking me
for myself
I apologised
...stammering:
'I'm sorry...
I thought yo
were
someone
I
knew.
St. Peter went on holiday;
So Jesus stepped into his place.
The first man in line, old and grey,
Told Jesus facts to make his case,
'A carpenter, I had a son -'
'Special from the day he was born; '
'Transformed when all was said and done'
'To adoration from such scorn, '
'Though happening in time long past, '
'The spirit of my son lives on.'
'His story told foreverlast, '
'For all the world to draw upon.'
Jesus cried, 'I'm your son, you know? '
The old man peered, 'Pinocchio? '
He was all out of luck, the chips were down
On the day he walked through London Town,
When out of the corner of his eye he spotted
His true-love - with another guy!
Turning his head, he just walked away
He would think about this another day...
Like Scarlett O'Hara, he knew the score,
When chips were down it was love no more.
He hurried home and guess who was there;
His own true-love, in her favourite chair.
She'd waited for hours. How wrong could he be?
'Mistaken Identity' so foolish was he.
i am a woman of many things
my style is rare
dare not compare
me to others
especially your previous lovers
my attitude is bold
with me the truth is always told
what can i say for you
see it was me that called
you had no clue, what so ever, at all
you thought it was her but it wasn't
you said auntie maybe next time you'll try cousin
what i know to be a fact
is that love is a act
i have no time for a simple man
you know, one that doesn't have my best interest at hand
i need someone i can trust
being straightforward is a must
i need someone that's real
that actually cares about how i feel
you call yourself the boss
well baby it's time to pay the cost
true love might have found you at last
but it has now come to past
good luck with your future
good luck with the other
see i'm in a better place
getting my ears, neck and ring finger laced
Forgive me, I thought somebody cared,
I thought it was you
Or I would surely never dared
Reveal myself through
Who made you guardian of my days,
Master of each step?
The spirit will retaliates,
Becoming suppressed.
I thought it was you,
Wearing an angelical smile
And with sparkling eyes
Bewitching me with its magic.
As time slowly passed.
The truth was clearly revealed
When I saw the fake lover
Hiding behind the mask.
I thought it was you,
The one permanently fixed
In my heart and mind
And also in my dreams.
Disappointed now I am
But with faith and hope
I will eventually survive
And see a brighter light.
One sunny day
While the butterflies dance
And the birds happily sing,
I shall find you my angel,
The woman of my dream
©All Rights Reserved-2011
My dream as a child
Became a passion in my youth
To search for my identity
And search for a truth
I differentiated myself from every other mortal
I differentiated myself for a subtle known cause
To be the best amongst all of them
And to prevent my identity loss
The great that I achieved
Doesn’t seem to be any more
Or probably it wasn’t great enough
For my conscience to be sure
I was probably the most competitive
In an effort to establish my superiority
I’m still to reach that ultimate position
To re-establish the mistaken identity
I would stand nowhere
If they all fall in my shoes
My identity is mistaken for nothing
Don’t know for the fault of whose.
After years of aimless wanderings
Leaving behind the cities of midnight revels
And the fevered journey in metro rails,
I am back at the land of my people.
My land, I had carried
Wherever I went,
Under which ever roof I slept
As a jewel in a casket
And ensured it rested safe
Ever under my pillow
Moving with aliens
Unable to merge with their cultural mores
I saw my land glimmer in darkness
Like dew drop on a moon blanched leaf
When I sweated in the blistering sands
That patch of green landscape, like an oasis
Wafted me in a cool embrace
Then dreams poured in like star light
And I wandered in the meadows of my youthful love
My heart struggling to forget old longings
And memories lashing upon me like tidal waves
Pursued by an inalienable shadow
Suddenly being born in flesh and blood
I hastened to the streets of my youth
With hopes galore and plans vivid
But alas! There is none to recognize me
Oh! I am a stranger here
An unwelcome stranger among total strangers
Now I wonder which really is my land
The one left behind or the one just landed in
Oscillating between these two worlds
My fractured identity looms large
With worms of memories wriggling in my flesh
And a myth dying in my brain
Who am I,
What my identity,
where my home?
I weep under the quilt
Alone in deep night
For you.
This is perhaps my identity.
Lion hearted man
But like stone
No emotions
But only confusion
Who cares?
And stares
At beautiful and handsome
If that is person
You hear no one
You listen to no person
You go aimlessly
And will not change hopefully
You have no feelings
Only believe in stealing
And hurt sentiments
That is real picture at present
I shall close eyes
And try
Not to be same
For my identity to claim
Look at me,
Tell me what you see
I have 2 identities.
Which is hard to see.To my friends and family, I’m a different me.I have a secret identity,
Which may not describe me.
The secret identity that I have is deep inside my soul which is hard to find. I’m still searching hoping that I will find the complete  me.myslef and I.
This is the holy land
Where I was born
My seed was well planted
By my parents in right span;
I am from the human seed
The group is homosapien
Adam and Eve are my grandparents
We all are their children;
This land is my terminal
I will leave it after certain time
But on right path here I have to earn all
I need meet their team,
This is the only way to be successful
After the very resurrection;
Otherwise, I'll fail
And will be thrown to destruction.
To fit into another's mould
Constantly changed shape
Now I am not what I am.
That's my Identity! !
I'm changing.
Yes I know my face is the same
So is my name
And I'm still only partially sane,
But I'm changing.
I found true beauty.
It's always been in front of me
But I guess I was to blind to see.
And I'm happy.
I never understood why they cry when they read the words.
I never understood why a rock meant such worth.
I never understood why they prepare for the worst.
Now look at me.
One chapter and I'm teary.
I stand five times but don't grow weary.
I guess it's because I found me,
My true identity.
Personal identity
Women always need attention
If all want its retention
In life and elsewhere
One must always stand firmly and dare
No doubt, they have suffered most
At heavy cost
Cruelty in behavior
And almost compromise with honor
She has stood ground well
For the whole of world to tell
'Look we are no mean creature'
But you’re sure future
Generations have been bought
But we are always caught
Between good and devil
We shall survive still
We shall rise from dust
As our main asset is trust
We hold it most
As time is still not lost
Give them strength
As they serve till death
With power and dignity
And hold personal identity
Personal identity
Women always need attention
If all want its retention
In life and elsewhere
One must always stand firmly and dare
No doubt, they have suffered most
At heavy cost
Cruelty in behavior
And almost compromise with honor
She has stood ground well
For the whole of world to tell
'Look we are no mean creature'
But you’re sure future
Generations have been bought
But we are always caught
Between good and devil
We shall survive still
We shall rise from dust
As our main asset is trust
We hold it most
As time is still not lost
Give them strength
As they serve till death
With power and dignity
And hold personal identity
What, not who are you, is the question
On your identity
Though you are an invisible being
The system says you're the body
Protoplasm's just biological cells
Chemically bonded together
Sex by Mother and Father
God's recipe they did foster
Dead cells you are not
Neither are you living cells
The invisible soul in the head
That body-robot propels
Soul in a body alone
Is a seeker's obsession
Such luck is not possible
Satan comes in as a possession
Physical body that's inert
Until enlivened by a soul
Corrupted by evil in the flesh
COUP is its goal
The body is one fraction
Empowered by good and evil
Soul must fight with all its might
To retrieve its body from the devil
The inner sanctum of the skull
Is where the Soul is located
The remaining flesh is satan's home
Until the dark side is defeated
So WHAT is your identity
Which 'I' do you proclaim to be
Sometimes soul, mostly dark side
Fluctuating ownership of the protoplasmic body
So civilization has us fooled
By denoting I, YOU, and WE
Such denotation varies upon
WHAT controls the body
Everyone is not the same each minute
Do not expect anything different
Soul or dark side will 'behave'
As per which one is ascendant
We were born like this, my friends
In the battlefield of the body
If the Soul does not rise up
Suppressed it lives, unfree
Names are just another trick
To make you feel secure
Often it is the protoplasm they mean
And evidenced by a picture
Go beyond names and forms
To find the essence of the soul
Now you know why it must be done
Soul existence to unfold
I am known to some
Who do not know me
Some claim to know me
Yet do not know me.
Mysterious is the connection
Yours and mine
Like roots of trees intertwined
beneath the ground
Claimed by each tree above
As its own.
Roots understand it all!
Whatever I call mine
Isn't really mine
What I do not think as mine
Embraces me with such love.
Who thou are that walk by me?
inser an attitude
into between
all the association
labels
questions
question marks?
the knowing
knowing
knowing minds
reference by places
special honoured dates
with gifts gifts
gifts
given wanted?
what price?
paid
received
ownership
ritu als
blood ties
friends
embraced
welcomed
em otion staged
on occasions
dictated traditions
circle patches
neatly date catalogues
life timed sequences
celebrating time shifts
lens cap on
lens cap off
click click click
pose posers
not to pose
life models
staged settings
feelings
appreciations
fing ertips
hands
footprints
leave marks
indelible
or spotlights
face figure clothes
shadow mirrors
object selections
ownership
barcodes
choice selects
barcode on spot foreheads
barcode on back of necks
barcode on tattoo forearms
scan earmarked
final sales solutions
buy sell life rapes
rise free bird blood group super loop hawks
eagles fly free in perfect inconsistencies
evaded question identity perception minefields
scan earmarked
final solutions
nazi life rapes
waffen SS blood tattoos
SS blood group tattoos
small black ink tattoos
located on underside
of left arm near armpit
20 cm above the elbow
blood type soldier's
early lettering Gothic-style
later inked Latin-style
blood transfusions
wounded unconscious
missing dog tags
war games crimes ended
catch beastly black rats
war crimes blood riddled
war atrocities ignored ended
Allies keen to catch scapegoats
Waffen-SS members desired
an accounting to be rendered
judgement trial vengeance selections
Waffen-SS type witch hunted
due to hideous volume of war crimes
committed by fanatical Waffen-SS units
post-war showcase Nuremberg Trials
Waffen-SS are collectively branded
a criminal organization condemned
due to Nazi Party loyalty connections
involvement documented war crimes
waffen SS blood group tattoos
used to accurately identify SS members
'prima facie' evidence established
as part of the Waffen-SS leading
to potential arrest prosecutions
leading to Waffen-SS prosecutions
occasionally war crimes executions
gallows appointed hangman's noose
'prima facie' on first encounter first
blush at first sight Waffen-SS identities
are self evident legally fact established
but blood group super loop hawks
eagles fly free in perfect inconsistencies
not all Waffen-SS had blood tattoos
some men were away on tattoo days
men transferred from other branches
of military training to Waffen-SS
men transferred from the Allgemeine SS
the 'General' or non-military SS
did not receive Waffen-SS blood tattoos
increasingly after 1943 Waffen-SS
recruits did not receive blood tattoos
by 1945 few accept blood tattoos
non-SS wounded Wehrmacht soldiers
treated in SS hospitals were blood tattooed
post war Waffen-SS falsely categorized
rise free blood group super loop hawks
eagles fly free in perfect inconsistencies
SS veterans tattoo less detection escaped
SS escapees important who capture evaded
Auschwitz Angel of Death Josef Mengele
Adolf Eichmann's 'best man' Alois Brunner
both ghost escaped lacking SS blood tattoos
blood group super loop nasty heinous vultures
evaded question identity perception minefields
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Who is to say,
How someone else should be?
Or that they are not being themselves?
Especially when those claiming to be down to Earth,
Seek approval from others who also have self esteem...
And identity issues.
While those who have put a stamp on their individuality,
Are said to believe themselves better than the others...
With attempts they make to prove they seek to experience,
More than just an average existence by doing things to improve...
Their outlooks with an adventuring done to explore their lives,
Away from routine complaints and gossiping about others!
Traditional in
Appearance I am, but looks
Can be deceiving!
Simple identity
Use word as lover
And act as admirer
No killer or any other word
Suits for the beautiful thing of lord
You may not forget
The gift you got
From almighty the powerful
You are so much grateful
You are peace ambassador
Simple massager
And carrier
With beautiful message as known lover
Love transmits disease
And ceases
Your concentration
To go in one direction
That is sign of love
If you believe
It has powerful beam
And directs all of them
Love hides no one
But brings as one
With simple identity
And strong affinity
If ever I had dreamed of my dead name
High in the heart of London, unsurpassed
By Time for ever, and the Fugitive, Fame,
There seeking a long sanctuary at last, -
Or if I onetime hoped to hide its shame,
- Shame of success, and sorrow of defeats, -
Under those holy cypresses, the same
That shade always the quiet place of Keats,
Now rather thank I God there is no risk
Of gravers scoring it with florid screed.
Let my inscription be this soldier's disc.
Wear it, sweet friend. Inscribe no date nor deed.
But may thy heart-beat kiss it, night and day,
Until the name grow blurred and fade away.
This is a stolen identity
Because I’m bent on forgetting me
All left is my eyes
And I think their gonna die
Don’t look in, you can see me
I’d rather wear this stolen identity
Exactly what they want to see
I’ve got the lock on the door
Don’t force yourself to love me anymore
You don’t need to
I’m now something new
But its not really me, it’s all for you
He put the stitches on the cut
When she’s perfect, then there’s love
She’s perfect in this mask
Hiding his shame at last
Because without identity goes the past
No, I can’t look up to your eyes
I know I’ve got something else in me
It’s breathing hard, it tries rise
Like the third of a trinity
No, I’ve got this at last
Now I’ve found the perfect mask
And I’ll shake these thoughts with this flask
Because with this failure goes a past
That he never wanted to see
A part that was forced to bleed
But with this identity goes stitches
Though it bleeds, though it itches
But I’m sewn up, strung out, all you’ll ever need
Though these stitches bleed
I want my identity
With super quality
Not to compromise on anything
Even if tempted for something
I want to grow
But shall not allow
Shadow to grow larger
Even with temptation offer
Nobody should be high above
As you can happily prove
You should be responsible
For acts of omission and hence to struggle
It is good to assess the loopholes
Which drives and lands you in troubles
That shall be good for remaining as human
You have to prove as nice gentleman
Yes be ordinary and poor
No one shall dare to show you door
As you will be known for impartiality
And also for strong identity
The kid identity
Look at me,
It is not my true identity,
But when they see the true true me,
I am nothing but a messed up key,
When they see my true identity,
They want to go back to what they thought was me,
But they must not go and see,
Who my true identity could really be,
Just remember I’m my real identity.
By: Colby Selter
Identity is not a given;
it is a song; it is a quest.
It is a journey and its trials,
not just the outcome of a test.
It is the continual burning of a flame,
not the marks that a burning  flame leaves.
It is but the choices that you wrought,
not just the tapestry destiny weaves.
Identity
What is that identity
And who is competent to
Issue identity card
In whose favor
And for what purpose
All the things we have to know
From here, from our
Day to day activities.
Let me say all the identity cards
Are bogus cards as they are
Not based on Truth
And Truth needs no identity card
Like the the sun and the moon
Like the air and the sky
Like the earth and the water,
We are here to see how the clouds
Are going away from the sky
We are to see the light
Only by its grace.
Here, the question is about identity.
Identify first who is who and
What is what if you are able, my dear.
If ever I dreamed of my dead name
High in the heart of London, unsurpassed
By Time for ever, and the Fugitive, Fame,
There seeking a long sanctuary at last,
I better that; and recollect with shame
How once I longed to hide it from life's heats
Under those holy cypresses, the same
That shade always the quiet place of Keats,
Now rather thank I God there is no risk
Of gravers scoring it with florid screed,
But let my death be memoried on this disc.
Wear it, sweet friend. Inscribe no date nor deed.
But may thy heart-beat kiss it night and day,
Until the name grow vague and wear away.
With identity card
I am moving here and there
You are my identity card
Without you no sky no bird.
First understand
Your own identity.
And then see
Another living entity.
Here there is
No question of
Partiality or
Enmity.
A precious child, my little grand-daughter,
full of chuckles, love and great laughter.
Filled with innocence through and through,
with lots of hugs and kisses too.
I know proud grandparents will all agree,
the love we receive is precious and free.
They have no motives, no deep held secrets.
Holding on to us tight, cradled in our arms
filling us with a calm of their innocent charms.
Written:  Sept.29,2007
Note:
It is said, “Having a child fall asleep in your
arms is one of the most peaceful feelings in
the world”.
People who describe themselves,
As repeatedly victimized...
Are always on the scene,
Providing the same evidence...
That never seems to change,
A depiction of their innocence.
And who has been abusive to them,
Offensive, cruel and mean.
'And you say,
You have no idea why this has happened? '
~I wish I had a 'hint' or a single clue.
Everyone else accepts what it is that I do.~
'Everyone else but just a few, huh? '
~What do you mean by that? ~
The seed has been planted
Inside the earth the seed will grow
At the instance of the sow
The spirit has been awaken
And life has been granted
Another soul to enter into this world of adversity
With lack of water
And lack of the sun rays of light
Will the seed develop
Will the seed sprout
And after the nine harsh months
Into this world the flower came
Only to be picked by apathy
And thrown away two blocks away
With no guilt nor sense of fear
With colors bright and scent so sweet
No sins committed
An altruistic soul and mind
Witnessing death before the taste of life
Seeing the dark instead of light
Creation of life
Sparked the match that lit the candle of decay
Invisibly travelling hoping for someone,
to release him from bondage, trapped like a abalone.
Emotionally handicapped for someone to hear his cry,
but yet everyone is deaf no matter how hard he try.
Pretending like he is gifted with wisdom,
Still helpless and trapped in his mighty kingdom.
Frisky and ill-fated the qualities of his whole,
thoughts gushing in his mind as he grows ole.
That when in this world there will be a candle with a light,
which can be seen by anyone without sight.
Sacrificing himself when all he can do is taunt,
left with nothing but only him to flaunt.
Sober at people who thinks he is a gloat,
like as if they were free birds in the sky who float.
Crying at people who tells him he is too servile,
but doesn't know whether it can be futile.
Thinking to himself who are they to decide,
on land or sea his wish to reside.
Beliving that God to him is not fair,
Waiting for that day when he senses there is no air.
Auguries of Innocence I
The bat that blocked will fall, Time’s sway
will bowl both balls and pads away.
Auguries of Innocence II
The bat that flits too close will leave
a brain too tight, which won’t believe...
Auguries of Innocence III
The bat that sucks will even out
red, white, - leave blue without a doubt...
[c] Jonathan Robin parody William Blake Auguries of Innocence – The Bat 29 July 1991 – Parodies Robert BLAKE – Auguries of Innocence
_____________
Auguries of Innocence – The Bat
The bat that flits at close of eve
has left the brain that won’t believe.
Auguries
The bat that blocks at close of play
stays on to hit another day.
To see a World in a Grain of Sand
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower,
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand
And Eternity in an hour.
A Robin Red breast in a Cage
Puts all Heaven in a Rage.
A dove house fill'd with doves & Pigeons
Shudders Hell thro' all its regions.
A dog starv'd at his Master's Gate
Predicts the ruin of the State.
A Horse misus'd upon the Road
Calls to Heaven for Human blood.
Each outcry of the hunted Hare
A fibre from the Brain does tear.
A Skylark wounded in the wing,
A Cherubim does cease to sing.
The Game Cock clipp'd and arm'd for fight
Does the Rising Sun affright.
Every Wolf's & Lion's howl
Raises from Hell a Human Soul.
The wild deer, wand'ring here & there,
Keeps the Human Soul from Care.
The Lamb misus'd breeds public strife
And yet forgives the Butcher's Knife.
The Bat that flits at close of Eve
Has left the Brain that won't believe.
The Owl that calls upon the Night
Speaks the Unbeliever's fright.
He who shall hurt the little Wren
Shall never be belov'd by Men.
He who the Ox to wrath has mov'd
Shall never be by Woman lov'd.
The wanton Boy that kills the Fly
Shall feel the Spider's enmity.
He who torments the Chafer's sprite
Weaves a Bower in endless Night.
The Catterpillar on the Leaf
Repeats to thee thy Mother's grief.
Kill not the Moth nor Butterfly,
For the Last Judgement draweth nigh.
He who shall train the Horse to War
Shall never pass the Polar Bar.
The Beggar's Dog & Widow's Cat,
Feed them & thou wilt grow fat.
The Gnat that sings his Summer's song
Poison gets from Slander's tongue.
The poison of the Snake & Newt
Is the sweat of Envy's Foot.
The poison of the Honey Bee
Is the Artist's Jealousy.
The Prince's Robes & Beggars' Rags
Are Toadstools on the Miser's Bags.
A truth that's told with bad intent
Beats all the Lies you can invent.
It is right it should be so;
Man was made for Joy & Woe;
And when this we rightly know
Thro' the World we safely go.
Joy & Woe are woven fine,
A Clothing for the Soul divine;
Under every grief & pine
Runs a joy with silken twine.
The Babe is more than swadling Bands;
Throughout all these Human Lands
Tools were made, & born were hands,
Every Farmer Understands.
Every Tear from Every Eye
Becomes a Babe in Eternity.
This is caught by Females bright
And return'd to its own delight.
The Bleat, the Bark, Bellow & Roar
Are Waves that Beat on Heaven's Shore.
The Babe that weeps the Rod beneath
Writes Revenge in realms of death.
The Beggar's Rags, fluttering in Air,
Does to Rags the Heavens tear.
The Soldier arm'd with Sword & Gun,
Palsied strikes the Summer's Sun.
The poor Man's Farthing is worth more
Than all the Gold on Afric's Shore.
One Mite wrung from the Labrer's hands
Shall buy & sell the Miser's lands:
Or, if protected from on high,
Does that whole Nation sell & buy.
He who mocks the Infant's Faith
Shall be mock'd in Age & Death.
He who shall teach the Child to Doubt
The rotting Grave shall ne'er get out.
He who respects the Infant's faith
Triumph's over Hell & Death.
The Child's Toys & the Old Man's Reasons
Are the Fruits of the Two seasons.
The Questioner, who sits so sly,
Shall never know how to Reply.
He who replies to words of Doubt
Doth put the Light of Knowledge out.
The Strongest Poison ever known
Came from Caesar's Laurel Crown.
Nought can deform the Human Race
Like the Armour's iron brace.
When Gold & Gems adorn the Plow
To peaceful Arts shall Envy Bow.
A Riddle or the Cricket's Cry
Is to Doubt a fit Reply.
The Emmet's Inch & Eagle's Mile
Make Lame Philosophy to smile.
He who Doubts from what he sees
Will ne'er believe, do what you Please.
If the Sun & Moon should doubt
They'd immediately Go out.
To be in a Passion you Good may do,
But no Good if a Passion is in you.
The Whore & Gambler, by the State
Licenc'd, build that Nation's Fate.
The Harlot's cry from Street to Street
Shall weave Old England's winding Sheet.
The Winner's Shout, the Loser's Curse,
Dance before dead England's Hearse.
Every Night & every Morn
Some to Misery are Born.
Every Morn & every Night
Some are Born to sweet Delight.
Some ar Born to sweet Delight,
Some are born to Endless Night.
We are led to Believe a Lie
When we see not Thro' the Eye
Which was Born in a Night to Perish in a Night
When the Soul Slept in Beams of Light.
God Appears & God is Light
To those poor Souls who dwell in the Night,
But does a Human Form Display
To those who Dwell in Realms of day.
There, at top,
Lonely poplar sublime in a Mirage, _
Naked letters without a metaphor,
The eremite did not notice beauty of a cypress,
And in it there was a pleasure …
Blind innocence, _ excitation in the Mirage,
Squeezed out love juice of the moon …
One sunny noon, while chasing butterflies you &me,
Tried to unravel the mystery of the birds &the bees,
We stopped at some broken wings, lying on the ground, splattered,
Blackish red. To divert your attention I said,
“See! , There  goes a butterfly in your favorite color,
Pink petals above your head hover.”
But you didn’t move &stood there
Watching, the first sight of destruction &its dark face.
Asked me where the bird went if it lay at your feet
Tattered like your ragged doll, with no tweet,
Its feathers spread, its face vacant, so still, awake.
You asked me, “If it still lay there within”
“Why it lay there so dirty, muddied.”
“Why doesn’t God clean it up? It’s a poor small bird.”
Questions I have searched answers for an entire life,
Your innocence springs open the Pandora’s Box.
In detail we inspect & see the ants have a galore,
You said, ” Kill the ants they are at the bird’’,
I said; “It doesn’t matter, now God has forgotten, ”
Puzzled you look at me, unsure, unsafe, and no longer protected.
Worried you ask me again –“Then where did it go? ”
I pointed to the skies &said –“It is with God- Up there! ’’!
You said looking up —“ I don’t see- where? ’’
I said—“God is there but prefers to remain anonymous”
Then you ask –“Then how would you know who he is? ”
“You say he could be anywhere, here –there, ”
I said –“Yes, he is here, I see him in you—your sweet smile”
Again you give me that quizzical look
And with tender hands my arm you took.
We let it be & went ahead instead,
Me in my daily pursuits, you withheld
By the wonders of childhood. Our separate ways,
It’s been three summers now,
Even today when unwell you scream-“A feather in my bed! ”
And again the same question stands,
And stares at me-bold, daring, emphatic! .
x-----x-----x
For Vaishu-Thank  You, Once again.
2008
Truth, The Real God
Not that we have made
Does not want a facade
Of the limited and narrow world that we parade
It asks for a mind rich in Innocence
That doesnt have a scratch of experience
A mind free from time
A mind free from grime
It wants a Being whose heart is Full
Rich, clear which does not get pulled
By jaded and petty eyesight
Just capable of intense feeling in all its might
Be sensitive with your nerves
Your eyes, your body, your voice, your ears
See the beauty of the tree, the smile of the child
The agony of the woman without a meal, the animals in wild
Unless you do, there is no intelligence
It doesnt come with knowledge or experience
Comes with sensitivity and observation
A mind rich in Innocence....
Secrets hidden well,
To cover up the shame,
Memories suppressed inside,
To bring relief from the pain.
Nightmares constantly present,
To remind that the past is real,
Sickness retching the body,
To release the disgust she feel.
Pasts that still haunt,
Both at day and by night,
Lives forever altered,
By something far from right.
Child left alone,
Trying once again to be whole,
This unforgivable devastation,
Forever tormenting her soul.
Many questions yet unanswered,
She still sits and wonder why,
Was there a reason, a purpose,
To the cause of her wanting to die?
Does anyone listen
for the cries
of the innocent
Does anyone care
about the young
and the old
Do we have to pretend
we didn't hear
the babies cry
Do we have to pretend
someone cares for the old
Or do we do something now
For the young
and the old
CRY OF INNOCENCE
Night when deep by the lightening
Rose yet promises the rambles of smile
darkness walks through the silence
rain still tears all mute by the blue
the waves yet dazing on the beach
call when defrayed by the impulse
love still snaffles by the crooning
moments seems to defuse by the bliss
the reeks when fester by knowing
when reconciled by the reef of reason
star yet blinks to its lap when swings
sun in its rise by the warmth in redolence
breath of silhouette yet subtle intoned
even intense by embracing the whispers
vale of tunes when shimmers from all secrets
the clogging undertones the cry of innocence
^Death Of Innocence (2)
Playful laughter in a garden
Dark eyes flashing, curly hair
Infant innocence happy there:
'Dandelions, pretty flowers
Mommy, you and I can wear
Yellow tassels on our slippers;
Each of us have got a pair.'
Dark clouds gather in that garden
Shining sinister, slithering serpent,
Nonresistant childhood snare.
'Stolen candies, sweets are tempting
As I coil about your thigh.
Taste how sweet they are, like honey,
Like the secrets that we share.'
Secrets growing choke the flowers
Robbing laughter; until soon
Mother's heart must sadly sigh.
'Oh, my daughter, pretty daughter,
Gone the luster in her eye.
She is keeping secrets from me.
Why has she not told me why? '
Little girls grow to be adults
Childhood secrets scars become,
Scars that taint her every song:
'Why are candies venom bitter?
Why is laughter like a cry?
Why has happiness forever
Scorned me and passed me by?
'Within me lives a memory
That will haunt me 'til I die.
That will haunt me 'til I die.'
^Death Of Innocence
A little girl was playing in the garden 'round her home,
Mischief sparkled in her dark eyes and her curly hair was blond.
Innocent joy rang in the laughter of her happy, playful song:
'Dandelions are as pretty as the flowers that grow high.
I have picked some for you, Mommy, and I want to show you why.
They make tassels on our slippers; we can wear them, you and I.'
Into that happy garden crept a serpent black and long,
Shining sinister in the sunlight as he flicked a jeweled tongue.
Captivatedly she listened to his strange inviting song:
'Stolen candies can be sweeter than the ones your parents buy.
Taste how sweet they are, like honey, as I coil about your thigh.
It will be our little secret as we eat them, you and I.'
Secrets growing in a garden, in among the pretty blooms,
Rob children of their laughter; so that it was very soon
That a mother's heart was sighing a sad, foreboding tune:
'Oh, my daughter was so pretty, and I wish that I knew why
Such a change has come about her that it makes my spirit cry.
Her eyes have lost their glitter and she has not told me why.'
Little girls will always grow up; that, in life, has been decreed,
While secrets locked in childhood are concealed in history.
Yet the scars they are concealing will be sung in misery:
'Why do candies taste so bitter? Why does laughter make me cry?
Why do I have a feeling happiness has passed me by?
I'm living with a memory that will haunt me 'til I die.
Within me lives a memory that will haunt me 'til I die.'
I am bound and broken,
Lying bloody on the floor.
No longer with innocence,
I'd had before.
I'll be forever changed,
By just one thrust,
A penetration of hatred,
To rip away my trust.
You abuse my body,
My soul and my mind.
With one careless shove,
You start to grind.
As you begin your assault,
I close my eyes.
Soon it will be over,
So sure I want to die.
My tears begin to fall
With each wince of pain.
I wonder why,
What have you to gain?
As I continue,
To push you away,
Your pace gets faster.
Your eyes turn grey.
Slowly you stop,
With one final thrust,
My heart is torn;
I no longer can trust.
I feel the hatred
Flowing into me.
Now so dirty with filth,
I seem to be.
You wickedly laugh,
As you rise from the floor.
You wipe yourself on me,
Then head for the door.
Now here I am
Beaten, Broken, and Bound,
Lying on the floor,
Uttering no sound.
It seems like Light Years ago
That sweet innocence
Like a flower in the bud
Growing in new existance
Fresh and un-flawed
Beauty and angelic substance
In the Garden unmarred
Basking in the sun with no resistance
Where oh where did i go?
It all happened so fast
One day i was pure growing tall
The next-plucked way to fast
Put in a vase amongst other flowers
Of equal or very close age
Devoured by eyes of the lusty Gardners
My innocence turned into rage
A day passed-perhaps two
Time was really irrevelant to me
Every day was the same for us all
Fresh water-and slow death agony
I felt it come upon me
Like the goodness was draining me dry
Loosing all of my substance
Bending over i knew i would die
Ragged and wilted i fought
As the others alongside of me
But resistance proved to be no assistance
The day the innocence in me was set free
And into the trash we all landed
Despairing our very last breath
My petals no longer like velvet
But a dried mixture of long fought floral death!
Like a seagull flying high,
As I hear your distant cry.
Not of pain but of suggestion,
Wait for me is the question.
Gliding down with all concern,
The bird I found will take its turn.
Disguised in innocence and great meekness,
My ignorance becomes my weakness.
Plucking feathers from my wings,
It’s unnoticeable, for innocence she sings.
Shaded by deceptions peaceful nature,
Now my trust she will capture.
Follows me down to the vigorous sea,
And still in her eyes you see purity.
Sending vultures to eat my soul,
I’m struggling up as you call.
Gliding up to the surface,
The sea water has revealed her purpose.
My feathers are torn; they’ll grow back,
Deception’s innocence has now lacked.
Trust and truth decided,
By those who believe...
Honesty can be hidden and denied,
Can be reasons why people choose...
To keep to themselves,
After being victimize by someone who tell lies.
With effective and dramatized innocence.
Secrets, secrets
Lies, lies
She sits in her room,
and cries and cries.
There's no more trust
In this girl's heart.
She finally found out
That life isn't perfect.
She lived in dreams,
As children often do.
But she crawled out
Into the world everyone knew.
Things that once were.
Happiness once known;
The truth of it all.
To her was shown.
Her little heart
Will never trust again.
She'lll never know
A real true friend.
No more trust,
For no more lies.
She'll sit in her room
And cry and cry
Quiet.
Soft.
Full of peace.
No vandalism.
No wrong.
No sorrow.
No pain.
It's my field of innocence.
It's my life.
The place I dream about.
I know I am very young,
To early for me,
But when I pass.
I will go to this world.
Heaven,
Though, I like to call it field of innocence.
I don't know why.
Seemed fitting.
The innocent are there,
Resting in the quiet peace,
With our Lord Jesus.
I know someday I'll go,
And when I do,
I want to go to Heaven.
My Field Of Innocence.
Heart coalesces in unison longing love
distinction impulses unconsciousness
firmament loses to black hole redeeming
as river meanders to meld into oblivion.
attraction refutes falling from gravity,
anima, merges into promise of divinity,
gloss of innocence inflicts asymmetry
laws of truth guide universe onto eternity.
Light reflects to form image in mirror
genesis accords possibility to acknowledge
reality is ground of all creations to happen
as things happen to happen by inevitability.
Fuelled by my innocence
I was on my way to the adulthood.
I had my own pace
I never hurried and
I never wanted to.
Some people around me
seemed to have found that
I was too slow and decided to speed me up.
It was an unexpected night.
(Otherwise I would have fled)
I know, a rough footstep,
the stench of whiskey and
a pair of rocky hands
drained my fuel and speeded me
up to the adulthood.
I grew up to realize
that Death is deliverance
and growth is fatal.
Her innocence shattered,
Like bullets through glass.
The pieces are confusion
in all if its glory.
The act incomprehensible
Just seconds of pleasure.
Brought down
To his knees
By the consequence.
Time heals the scar,
But not the memory.
(Dec.25,1995. San Jose, Ca.)
Twas on a Holy Thursday their innocent faces clean
The children walking two & two in red & blue & green
Grey headed beadles walked before with wands as white as snow
Till into the high dome of Pauls they like Thames waters flow
O what a multitude they seemed these flowers of London town
Seated in companies they sit with radiance all their own
The hum of multitudes was there but multitudes of lambs
Thousands of little boys & girls raising their innocent hands
Now like a mighty wind they raise to heaven the voice of song
Or like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven among
Beneath them sit the aged men wise guardians of the poor
Then cherish pity, lest you drive an angel from your door
She calls school Shkool,
Never afraid to wake me up,
comes to me when weeping,
complains to me when hurt,
showing me the things of joy,
in the morning, waves bye,
celebrates my arrival,
brings smile with her smile,
makes worried with her silence,
Cute little daughter of Mine
I miss my swing, I miss my whip,
I miss my mother's grip,
my dirty hands and my soiled feet
my filthy face, my innocence.
I miss the way i used my slipper,
the incorrect way of wearing my t-shirt
I miss my friends and their sweet grins,
the way we talk and brag,
I miss the places where we used to play-
I miss my childish years yeah!
i miss my innocence.
I don't know when I was born,
Maybe when humanity didn't exist.
I was lost, in the senses of the insentient beings;
Always trying to find something.
Then came the humans, and I found my worth.
I found my place in the stone man's child
And the warmth of the fire made,
Since then I am multiplied.
I am the newborn's cry and the old man's last grin;
The blue of the ocean, red of the fire;
Half Bent bough of the golden tree to the ground,
Yellow no more, I am coloured brown
Once the air smelled of me, and the soil whispered my name;
I was serenity, I was beauty;
But for years I was harmed
And my luster has happened to dim.
And then came the bullets
With their sharp faces drilling my reality;
I felt lonely, for no one remembered me,
Puffed with the grey smoke far I went
Now I doubt myself, have I ever existed?
But when that sudden qualm would arise
I would find myself in the smile of a mother
With her child, I am still alive…
innocence and desire
illusions of my thoughts
forsaken into realization
hollow like our ears
is the sifting destiny
Innocence and silence.
A kind of state out of nature.
A head in a queer trance.
A body with a fracture.
Crying out the pain inside.
Showing out a grey smile.
A heart truly deeply died
Without blood running wild.
A crying silence growing.
A silent cry inside hidden.
A stare at the forbidden:
Words without meaning -
Innocence and silence.
The way I got involved
I could not make revolt
Their ill-intention
Crushed my ambition
With my utter innocence
I respected their arrogance
But I forgot
My destined lot
They played with my passion
It satisfied their emotion
They warned me in a strange voice
I avoided it coz it was my choice
Their behaviour made me realize
I was of no use-without price
They were happy to see me in trouble
I was fool I made my grief double
False love they showed to hide their hatred
I came to know this bitter truth then I regretted
My defeat lay in their victory
Their road depended on my journey
I thought it must be an ending
People say it is only a beginning
If it is only a start
Who will then try to thwart
I want to ask a question to them
Did they not feel any kind of shame?
If it is a beginning
It will never last for ending
They have started  this game
But I will finish the same.
4-4-2008
as innocence is bath drowned
in aircraft carriers of steam blood
pornography elite power rapes
Lay me down tonight.
Don't mourn for my passing.
I sold my soul to evade the light,
There's nothing left worth redeeming.
I remember a time,
Smiling child, picture of perfection.
In joyous resplendence, you danced.
Born in day,
But even your light wasted away.
Lay me to rest tonight.
Don't weep for my losses,
I sold my heart to escape the pain,
There's nothing left of me to save.
I remember a time,
Foolish child, see what befalls the flawed?
In the absence of light, you changed.
Born in day,
But reality eroded your heart away.
Hide me away tonight.
Don't beg for my forgiveness,
I took my life to escape from you,
Theres nothing left of me
Tonight.
In a world where innocence is lost so quickly, I pondered if it
truly exists at all. Where does one go to find it . . . this freedom of a pure, existence amidst an age-old classroom called life who teaches that innocence is best ignored. It was when I stopped looking that I was able to "see" a world with an
abundance of innocence and I chose it for my guide. Stop for a
moment and watch nature. Listen to all that is to be heard; for , this is
the true teacher of all living things. The smell of a rose, the call of a
wolf, the sight of a bird in flight. Nature's untainted innocence is
responsible for all these things. Nature hears no voice but it's own; yet, speaks to all who will listen. A
voice as constant as a rising sun or branches swaying in the
wind . . . for these are the soft-spoken words of innocence.
Innocence is not an absence of legal guilt
Innocence is not freedom from specific wrongs
Innocence is a quality state of freedom from sins guilt
loss of innocence no integral part
of maturity necessary coming of age
awareness of world pain suffering evil
Innocence is not absence of normative experience
Innocence is not ignorance not knowing evil
Innocence is affirmation a naked sinless nature
Innocence is choice verification of brilliant divinity light
I heard too many songs of love, and I'm sick of love
sometimes I lie to be like everyone
had you ever told someone a big lie?
and you had believed it
only one thing to be known, everyone lies
don't forget it
but some of them lie because they are breathing on lie
and some of them wants to be like everyone by lie
I'm the antilove, I'm the slayer venom, I'm the killing poison
I can pick my soul it falls in front of you
I don't want to be sweet innocent thing
innocence is weakness
only one thing to be known, everyone dies
don't you think it
but some of them die because they don't deserve life
and some of them want to die because they didn't live
hurry up and lock the door, look back if no one's there?
so, wear your escaping cloth, you can't run you can hide
just kill yourself because you're dead in my mind
you don't belong to me,  you belong to yourself
I lost my soul so long ago
I lost my innocence.
Not once not twice but more times than I can count.
It was becuase of bastards.
Bastards who wanted to hurt.
I lost my innocence and gained pain.
On the day you raped me.
I lost everything.
Lost my innocence.
Lost my life.
Lost my happiness.
Lost my way of being.
You raped me.
You didnt lose anything.
You gained the power.
I lost every thing that day.
All I was to gain was pain.
I lost more than one thing.
I lost my innocence.
But gained the pain
A precious Gift
Wrought by the tenderest of Hands:
Eyes that behold love in every face,
Too pure and ignorant of evil.
Little hands stretched out for airlifts;
Childish whirls, eruptions of laughter.
Feet that patter in delight
Unable to flee from brutes.
A precious Gift
Handled by the coarsest of hands:
Ruddy cheeks smothered with slaps, not kisses.
Frizzled hair matted with cruel blows, not caressed with a comb.
Crushing bear-hugs by spineless wrestlers.
Cherubic face powdered with chocolate disguise bruises
Ever-present lacerations blamed on the quirk of Nature.
A precious Gift
Treated as a burden:
Scores of injuries
Blind carers
A blood-splattered cot.
At last,
Eternal rest.
Oh lord forgive me
for what I have done
I know you shouldn't
go eye for an eye
but what would you have done
Listen to my confession
and tell me what I should have done
I see you in the morning
I see you in the night
I see your face
But I never see your eyes
You took away my innocence
You took away my life
I knew some day we'd meet again
But this time I'm a man
I saw you hurt someone
I said I'd die for you
then I pulled the knife and killed you
you took away my innocence
But I took away your life
Innocent girl of seven
always looked at heaven,
hoping to get a glimpse
of her father long gone, since...
No where were colours
which made her pailer.
Living among a big family
found herself lonely.
was afraid of demons
did'nt knew will find one
at the place she called 'home'
could not escape
devil overpowerd her... taking away
her innocence,
making her life colourless.
Demon frightened her so much
she dare not open her mouth.
though her heart, and,
body wanted to shout.
Oh! what a fate she saw -
was forced to tie the sacred thread.
Her heart bled. She recoiled back
in her cocoon
no body saw
the tears,
the fears.
14/02/08
Innocence lost!
All of his life people had beaten him down,
Made him feel useless,
Treated him like a clown.
Sweet Love met with a volley of blows,
A weeping Heart and a bloody nose!
Constant Abuse from a tender age,
Life left him bitter,
A heart full of rage!
No one to hear his impassioned cries!
No one to wipe all the tears from his eyes!
And now he's a man everything's stayed the same.
Living his life with a heart full of shame!
Gently he took her by the hand
and  into the forest glade he led her;
the setting sun glinted all around
the babbling brook was the only sound
He laid her down gently beside him
and wrapped his coat round her shoulders
she would gladly have stayed till infinity
as he took away her virginity
The smoke from the campfire curled up
as the dying embers burnt away
the only evidence left behind
was the imprint of bodies, two entwined
You always looked straight past me
why couldn't you see the truth
he's been doing this to me for years on end
taking away my youth.
Now my innocence is gone forever
and he's the one to blame
the only way I see I can get it back
is to get a rope and hang.
He's hurt me so badly
so many times, in so many ways
and even though it's in the past now
it's still hurting me these days
i'm proud to say i've survived this long
but it all must come to and end
my heart is just too broken to go on
and doing this will help it mend
i love the ones who loved me back
and this is all that's left to say,
i hope to see you all again
in the afterlife someday
Sabrina Perry
It’s my all time favorite repose-compartment
Open the pages to see my ingenuous chapters
Wonder why I have lost my innocence supplement
Once, that stance was part and parcel of all my matters!
Excavation can help me, I take this dig.
Cradle to grade one, infancy free verse at recite
From there a saga of tutoring, a phase of delight
Forever forgiven, naive menaces, a period of elite
It’s time then society norms dictate man’s plight.
Exclusive shots of this dig.
Its now, the virtue lost from face and it’s struck at throat
Costless thrillers, pastime, under the vigilant scanners
Salt water couldn’t heal the pain, but it did pivot
As a proof of living, had to hold pre-printed banners.
Extensive damage, reports my dig.
Discolored utterances played havoc, gullet to blame
Etiquette pushed into belly to help in digestion claim
Fed with indigestible cereals, system hanged in shame
The so called Innocence departed under the foot into the drain.
Exhibit of my dig –‘Innocence Lost’.
-vidi-
17/04/2009
Who says the Christ was crucified?
Who says the innocence ever died?
Christ just came to be our guide,
After the message he did hide.
Innocence is her Master’s bride,
Let your eyes be open wide;
San innocence life takes not stride,
San a villain the drama doesn’t glide.
Pleasures and pains are lighted fools,
They are just life’s drama’s tools;
Its stage is just a duality’s pool,
That is why Trinity our minds rule.
Nothing dies, nothing ever crucified,
The fault is with us, we are two eyed;
Unite with the One and ride your pride,
Let us be Radha, Lord Krishana’s bride.
This poem was composed in response to Vaibhav Shah’s composition ‘INNOCENCE CRUCIFIED’
Love is delicate,
As like the petals of a rose
Love is innocent,
like the purity of a rose
Love is delightful,
like the smell of a rose
Love hurts,
like the thorns of a rose.
Love begins,
like a seed.
and like a rose,
If you water it;
It grows.
Unaware-underwater
Spurting bubbles, spurting
Innocence.
Remember temptation?
Hips swing, a moist face
Dancing.
The shining pool, her spirit dove
Into the escape hole.
Book.
Grassy jeans-an empty space
At her side.
Lonliness has passed-
A New Beggining.
You are the spirit of children at play and
the innocence, of who they are.
© Joe Fazio
I have caught tears in my mouth,
washed in the dust of the dead,
burned the grass in the meadows,
watched the fires spread.
I was told by my leaders
to kill in my country’s fight.
Crimes are defined by victors,
We say what’s right.
I flew into a building
to tear apart people’s lives.
I exult in destruction.
No hope survives.
My end is a beginning
to death on a massive scale,
more “collateral damage”,
more children wail.
I just followed my orders,
with no judgement as to wrongs,
dropped bombs where I was told to,
missed the death songs.
I can’t be held to be guilty,
my duty is to obey.
Others will face reprisals,
I’ll walk away.
My faith’s pursuit of money,
Towns round the world are aflame,
Profits require hard decisions,
No one’s to blame.
I don’t care that they’re starving.
I have got targets to meet.
What’s it to me you’re homeless?
Live on the street!
No one on earth can stop me.
I am beyond all their power.
My beliefs have gone global.
This is my hour!
I will raise the old gods here,
worship at altars of gold,
Rip flesh from my opponents,
ravish the old.
Now I can see my future,
I drink the blood of a child,
served in a famous restaurant,
where bones are piled.
(Dedicated to those who are not personally responsible. Without you, this would not be possible./2nd. Sep.2001
verses 3 and 4,18th Sep, following the attack on the World Trade Centre.)
When I was small, I was taught
you don't judge people on how they look.
Years later, this happened,
and the story repeats itself.
Hand-in-hand, they came walking down the street.
Pretty little girl, with a blush on the cheeks.
The doll with blue eyes, came with as friend.
The mother smiled lovingly down at her child.
The sun shined bright,
and out of pure joy, the girl lauged with delight,
there was a stone in her shoe, and mom had to wait.
And so people started gathering to see this sight.
'Who is that ugly woman, Mommy? ' asked a frightened boy.
'Don't let she catch me! ' one cried behind his mother's dress.
'Don't be afraid! ' scolded an unpatient mother.
'If you're naughty, I'm gonna give you to her! ' she threatened the boy, then.
I looked at the people around me.
Why can't they just let the woman be?
She carries the scars of a fire-accident,
but her child looks like an angel.
'What is wrong, Mommy? ' asked the little girl.
She looked confused at her mother's tears.
'Don't cry, Mommy.'
She smiled and looked with love at her mom.
Then swinging her mom's hand again,
they walked passed people,
still staring, after them...
Innocence!
He spoke once before
Innocence!
He rigged of in pleasant odours
Innocence!
He displayed with his first step on the dance floor
Not knowing
What was next or what was following!
When he bellowed, he bellowed
And his silence too was without pretence
Now knowledge has made its entrance
Gradually exhibiting its presence
And his innocence
Has dissolved into a distasteful fragrance
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Innocence stolen without my permission
Innocence gone without my submission
Innocence lost through another's plan
Innocence no longer for another man
Innocence turned to hatred and fear
Innocence gone, no man can come near
Innocence taken from a little girls heart
Innocence replaced by mistrust, you thought you were smart
Innocence dissapears like dew in the sun
Innocence faded before it's begun
Innocence obscured like a cloud over the moon
Innocence ripped away too soon
They laughed at one I loved-
The triangular hill that hung
Under the Big Forth. They said
That I was bounded by the whitethorn hedges
Of the little farm and did not know the world.
But I knew that love's doorway to life
Is the same doorway everywhere.
Ashamed of what I loved
I flung her from me and called her a ditch
Although she was smiling at me with violets.
But now I am back in her briary arms
The dew of an Indian Summer lies
On bleached potato-stalks
What age am I?
I do not know what age I am,
I am no mortal age;
I know nothing of women,
Nothing of cities,
I cannot die
Unless I walk outside these whitethorn hedges.
When I bypass you passes a chill
Through out my body, o lassi little
What of your possessions that lure me
For you in longing I begin to swim.
You are not a beauty celestial I know
Till my honor for you I can throw
Just to have a glance at you oh virgin
What for it happens I can not imaginbe.
Perhaps I have found in you a dream
With you I see innocence in my dreams
To be associated with my future consort,
Who must too possess an innocent heart.
Dare I can not to speak with you
Fearing it may give me a clue
Or it may throw me in sea of pain
Unveiling before me your non innocence.
The waiting, the suspence
Everybody is feeling so tense.
Accused and blamed
All emotion has enflamed.
Worry and upset
You are the suspect.
Time and space
In that moment or place.
Comfort and support
Someone there at every thought.
Now its all done
Break a smile your not the one.
Rhys Ullah
hopefully it shall be your
last pose
beside an old Thai wall
that separate
the pure from the prude
the promiscuous from those
still wanting to be one
without thinking of any
possibility of unrest
or regret
now i must shed off my
hypocrisy
like a black coat on a warm weather
in this tropical part of
the world
i must accept, i am seduced
and i am throwing all my education away
naked, i plunge into the river of
my own destruction
now, the arms of oblivion shall embrace me
and history shall erase
the name that i have embossed
in the sands of my own
time
i grew up to see
how cruel world can be
first step outside the home
oh! it was better in the womb
expected people to be
like in fairytale movie
but the truth is darker
more darker then i see
i ran after desires
only to get wounded knee
people live without a soul
no emotions i can see
i realise i havent grown yet
want to go back to the cocoon i left
yet i have to fight
to make tomorrow bright
sometimes in the fight
starving for the light
remember you can loose
the innocence inside
no matter i lose or win
innocence keeps me away from sin
yes, i'm holding it
deep down my skin
and the day i die
i wish i die with innocence still within..........
The height of wisdom seems to me
That of a child;
So let my ageing vision be
Serene and mild.
The depth of folly, I aver,
Is to fish deep
In that dark pool of science where
Truth-demons sleep.
Let me not be a bearded sage
Seeing too clear;
In issues of the atom age
Man-doom I fear.
So long as living's outward show
To me is fair,
What lies behind I do not know,
And do not care.
Of woeful fears of future ill
That earth-folk haunt,
Let me, as radiant meadow rill,
Be ignorant.
Aye, though a sorry dunce I be
In learning's school,
Lord, marvellously make of me
Your Happy Fool!
Innocence is something amazing,
Innocence is life changing.
Innocence is heart wrenching,
Innocence is surprising.
Why can't i have something so breath-taking?
Because my innocence is non-existing.
But that which most I wonder at, which most
I did esteem my bliss, which most I boast,
And ever shall enjoy, is that within
I felt no stain, nor spot of sin.
No darkness then did overshade,
But all within was pure and bright,
No guilt did crush, nor fear invade
But all my soul was full of light.
A joyful sense and purity
Is all I can remember;
The very night to me was bright,
'Twas summer in December.
A serious meditation did employ
My soul within, which taken up with joy
Did seem no outward thing to note, but fly
All objects that do feed the eye.
While it those very objects did
Admire, and prize, and praise, and love,
Which in their glory most are hid,
Which presence only doth remove.
Their constant daily presence I
Rejoicing at, did see;
And that which takes them from the eye
Of others, offer'd them to me.
No inward inclination did I feel
To avarice or pride: my soul did kneel
In admiration all the day. No lust, nor strife,
Polluted then my infant life.
No fraud nor anger in me mov'd,
No malice, jealousy, or spite;
All that I saw I truly lov'd.
Contentment only and delight
Were in my soul. O Heav'n! what bliss
Did I enjoy and feel!
What powerful delight did this
Inspire! for this I daily kneel.
Whether it be that nature is so pure,
And custom only vicious; or that sure
God did by miracle the guilt remove,
And make my soul to feel his love
So early: or that 'twas one day,
Wherein this happiness I found;
Whose strength and brightness so do ray,
That still it seems me to surround;
What ere it is, it is a light
So endless unto me
That I a world of true delight
Did then and to this day do see.
That prospect was the gate of Heav'n, that day
The ancient light of Eden did convey
Into my soul: I was an Adam there
A little Adam in a sphere
Of joys! O there my ravish'd sense
Was entertain'd in Paradise,
And had a sight of innocence
Which was beyond all bound and price.
An antepast of Heaven sure!
I on the earth did reign;
Within, without me, all was pure;
I must become a child again.
As the baby wakes frm his bed
he sees the world arnd him
wonders what is here and why it is,
he moves on to see things,
less complex to understand what is goin on
he understands only two emotions of love and pain
both of which stay with him in loss and gain
he conveys evrything in laughter and cry
like we grown ups have never bothered to try
the way he is and his innocence makes me wonder
ah wht a day to live afterall to see a boy of such wonder
his evry movement is observed with such care
tht even people dying want to glare
his laughter is such a medicene
tht  any  disease can be cured by it
aryan
the continuation to this is THE EARLY YEARS' ANOTHER POEM FOLLOWED'
I was visibly moved and perturbed
Out of gear completely and disturbed
Mind so much occupied and probed,
Hair straight up as if not combed,
The moment childhood was over
Innocence and good smile lost the cover
Fight for survival and supremacy gained,
All sort of indecency settled in mind and regained
Nobody could actually judge the real face behind
Foes stopped guessing and baffled the friends
How could a small boy of yesterday could boldly stand?
Uneasy prevalence of calm on face and statesman like trend?
I learnt all the tolerance through the slapping of teacher
Something more gathered from the speeches of preacher,
Rest all came from sweet tongue of beloved mother,
Assertive and bold initiative attitude from father,
I was well trained for crisis and mastered the art,
Was in full capacity to raise big mart?
Inner capabilities and tactics used at full length,
Confidence and trust was the main strength,
My eyes couldn’t believe this could happen
All friends starred with eyes wide open
I was getting success with masterly stroke
Without hurting anybody and not even to provoke
I made them wonder when met across the street
Scaling new heights everyday with all the challenges to meet
Not compromising at all with even own principles
Admiration and applause more as if from staunch disciples
When I sit on the top of the hill,
And look back to think of strong will
I needed to pursue it with simple kill,
It was efforts and strong desire coupled with zeal
What I did was in pursuant of the goal
You hand will get dirty in business of coal
It is not easy to survive in race
How many difficulties you have to f ace?
I did and managed whatever was possible
I proved to self and others what was impossible
I steered the course amidst rough weather
It was adding glory and fame in feather
Person should not retire but must think
Eyes to be kept open and to wink
Whatever done In past was really essential?
Was it potential danger or test crucial?
I think I must go back to regain innocence,
Prove its worth and avoid pretence,
I must live in present and feel the presence,
Truly emotional but invariably with essence,
My present should not shadow the past,
No doubts should prevail and vote the cast,
I want to regain the precious innocence,
Live with it as if nothing happened since
You crawled into my bed
To make love for the first time
Then you asked for my help
You needed some more wine
You said I was the only one
To help you in this case
“Help me get my wife back”
You said with such disgrace
A friend from my teenage years
I was so naive and stunned
You could not have hurt me more
If you had shot me with a gun
You cried, you begged, you pleaded
“But you are my life-long friend”
I should have known that moment
This had to be the end
You stole from me something
That could not be replaced
My innocence gone forever
It hurt so much to face
I could have gone a lifetime
Never seeing that dark side
For years you and everyone
Had been so good to hide
Innocence taken
by those who thought
that it was ok to lie
by those who thought
nothing matters
Innocence taken
no longer available
Innocence unable
to ever speak again
Innocence silenced
to soon
Innocence taken
there's no truth over the lie
Innocence taken
by those who thought
I'll be the same again
by those who thought
its ok to kill
by those who thought
it's ok to take
Innocence replaced
by fear and mistrust
Innocence disappeared
before it came
Innocence taken
by those who
laughed at every cry
by those who had none
Innocence reflecting
a little girls eyes
innocence taken away
without my permission
You stolen my innocence
As a young child
The painful memories
Filled my childhood with
Tears, hurt, and pain
The unbearable pain
The hurt
You put me though
You lost nothing
You gain power
I lose my innocence
Lost my life
Lost my happiness
Gain nothing but pain
My childhood forgotten
My childhood lost
My childhood stolen by a man
that was my moms friend
You voilatd me
You molesed me
More then I can count on my hands and feet
You took the innocents out of the child
And left pain
Piping down the valleys wild,
Piping songs of pleasant glee,
On a cloud I saw a child,
And he laughing said to me:
'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'
So I piped with merry cheer.
'Piper, pipe that song again;'
So I piped: he wept to hear.
'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;
Sing thy songs of happy cheer:!'
So I sang the same again,
While he wept with joy to hear.
'Piper, sit thee down and write
In a book, that all may read.'
So he vanish'd from my sight;
And I pluck'd a hollow reed,
And I made a rural pen,
And I stain'd the water clear,
And I wrote my happy songs
Every child may joy to hear.
Remember those lollipops we liked alot and licked.
I remember licking every bit and saving the sticks.
Remember spending nickels to get five hot rockets.
Sucking those hot balls until the juice dripped from our lips.
Do you remember candy dots on strips of paper...
With every flavor there but chocolate.
Those times are gone but innocence should be held over.
Just to show the kids today what innocence is!
And...
Those times are gone but innocence should be held over.
Just to show the kids today what innocence is!
Remember those lollipops we liked alot and licked.
I remember licking every bit and saving the sticks.
Remember spending nickels to get five hot rockets.
Sucking those hot balls until the juice dripped from our lips.
Do you remember candy dots on strips of paper...
With every flavor there but chocolate.
Those times are gone but innocence should be held over.
Just to show the kids today what innocence is!
And...
Those times are gone but innocence should be held over.
Just to show the kids today what innocence is!
There were many benefits to being young and innocent.
Those times are gone but innocence should be held over.
Just to show the kids today what innocence is!
There were many benefits to being young and innocent.
Those times are gone but innocence should be held over.
Just to show the kids today what innocence is!
Just to show them proof that innocence once lived!
I swam through the snow
I swam the laps of innocence
The laps of an angel by my side
The sound of laughter by my side
The happiness swimming abreast of me
I rolled down the hills of light
I rolled unrolling the scrolls of innocence
The scrolls of all the white by my side
The hues of a multitude of smiles by my side
Joy cries joy screams abreast of me
It was so easy so easy to swim
So easy to swim the laps of innocence
The laps of an angel by my side
The sound of laughter by my side
The happiness swimming abreast of me
So easy to roll down the hills of light
To roll unrolling the scrolls of innocence
The scrolls of the white by my side
The hues of a multitude of smiles by my side
Joy cries joy screams abreast of me
The flickering whiteprints of a snowflake heart
The twinkling joy of my fast beating heart
The sparkling breath of my wind spinned heart
The shimmering light of my angel fed heart
The beat the beat of the snow spelled heart
So beautifully taken breath blown away
©Miroslava Odalovic
Curiosity grows, finding new ground
Temptation breaks all resistance
Dark discoveries flood in
Innocence swept away
Sinfull satisfaction sweeps over
Curiosity laughs, temptation has won
Sources change, sin remains
Innocence is dead, replaced
Solemn days, no surprises
The sun shines over cold flesh
A warm heart beats, needing joy
Content for now, a mind wanders
Innocence has been lost...
A single picture has brought it all back again.
I can smell the smells
and hear the sounds
as though it were yesterday
and not the ancient history of my youth.
I close my eyes and feel his hot breath on my face,
its sickenly sweet smell nauseats me.
His unshaven face touches mine
and I retch as the memory overwhelms me.
I can almost feel the cool air blowing in the tent
I hear the sound of cars going by,
a hundred,
a thousand,
one,
...God,
rushing off
going by
unaware
not knowing
oblivious
to my struggle
and the hot red pain
as I am awakened
My innocent, not lost, but stolen
(the awakening came)
like the shock of a rapier  piercing the heart of a novice fencer.
or a sun soaked body thrown into an icy river …
I was stunned by the revelation
paralyzed,
numbed
and mute.
All the whispers and snickers
Jibes and insinuations
Came into focus in an instant
I understood
Like adam,  I am not nude,  but naked on the inside
Shame, like a jacket falls on me,  and I put it on
For it fits so well
Humiliation hangs over me and bends my head down low
My soul like clay  was shaped by ugly hands
Disfigured, damaged dysfunctional forever
I looked into his eyes and I think  “betrayed again”,
Treacherous brown eyes seem to follow me
Waiting for me,
I was foolish enough to be open and vulnerable,
gushing like a school girl with raw emotion.
He struck  like a cobra, fangs sinking in, pumping poison
He has taken me, raped me and left me for dead
and i am once again
used and abandoned
INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE OH WHY DO I CRY? INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE WHERE IS THE TRUTH OVER THE LIE? INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE CAN THE GROUND KEEP ME DOWN? INNOCENCE OH INNOCENCE, WHO KEEPS PULLING YOU DOWN?
FAIL TO THE SYSTEM MY INNOCENCE WAS TAKING AWAY
I WISH FOR IT BACK EACH AND EVERY DAY
AS I LIE SMOTHERED UNDERGROUND
I COULD HAVE SURVIVED IF INNOCENCE WOULD HAVE STAYED AROUND
MY SHELTER, MY GROUND, AND ALSO MY ROOF
WHICH WAS DESIGNED ONLY TO PROTECT MY PROOF
EVIDENCE IS SUBMITTED ONLY TO HELP
WHEN I TURNED TO LOOK INTO YOUR EYES YOU LEFT
SEEKING WEALTH
ONLY TO LEAVE ME INSIDE AN EMPTY CHAMBER
FILLED WITH SO MUCH MAINLY ANGER
MY DISAPPOINTMENT IS PERCEIVED AS RAGE
IT'S JUST A CRAZE
TO BE TAKEN OUT OF MY MISERY RELEASED FROM THIS CAGE
INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE OH WHY I CRY? INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE WHERE IS THE  TRUTH OVER THE LIE? INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE CAN THE GREED KEEP ME DOWN? INNOCENCE OH INNOCENCE, WHO KEEPS PULLING YOU DOWN?
NEGATIVE INTERIOR EMOTIONALLY INFERIOR
WHY DOES MY FREEDOM HAVE TO BE DESTROYED OVER MATERIAL?
LOOKING AT INNOCENCE AND IT SEEMS SO STRANGE.
LOOKING AT MY SITUATION AND REALIZING NOTHING WILL CHANGE.
PURE INJUSTICE TRAIL IS NOT THE SAME.
TAKING MENTAL PICTURES PLACING THEM INSIDE A FRAME.
WHEN THEY  ENTER HELL  HOPELY THEY BURN IN FLAMES.
I WILL NEVER BE THE SAME.
TO DEATH WHAT IS GAIN?
TO BONDAGE WHAT IS A CHAIN?
INNOCENCE WAS SLAINED AS THEY SCREAMED OUT MY NAME I'M ASKING FOR CHANGE GOT DEATH IN EXCHANGE PARDON MY SCREAM AND KICKS FORGET ABOUT MY INNOCENCE FREEDOM INVOLVE TRICKS AND I CAN'T HELP BUT LAUGH MY INNOCENCE IS THE ONLY REASON I GOT STABBED ON THIS SLAB AS I'M SLICED IN HALF REACHING FOR THE INNOCENCE THAT I HAVE BEEN TRYING TO GRAB YELLING OUT SO UNJUST VOICE YELLS OUT HUSH AND RUSH INTO MY EMBRACE AS THEY REVIVE MY SPIRIT AND TOUCH MY FACE. IS IT GOD OR INNOCENCE THAT I CHASE?
INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE WHY DO I CRY? INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE WHERE IS THE TRUTH OVER THE LIE? INNOCENCE, INNOCENCE CAN GREED KEEP ME DOWN?
INNOCENCE OH INNOCENCE, WHO KEEPS PULLING YOU DOWN.
I met a little girl,
As fragile as could be
And i don't know somehow,
She reminded me of me!
In her little eye she saw a dream,
Of happiness unmatched
But every time she made it true
There came a little catch
And each time a little tear,
Would fall on her knee
But again and again she tried
For she wanted to succeed.
Her innocence was soon broken
In light of further days,
For every time she tried to smile,
Darkness pushed her away.
And though she broke entirely,
From within
Outside, she tried to put a show
And tried to mingle in.
And she tried to piece together
Her unhappy shattered heart,
But inside she was tearing
Slowly. part by part.
I met a little girl
As fragile as could be,
It's hard to belive, I know
That girl was me.
O pink horse, O timeless sun,
run on my body, run. Black magic
had pierced the needles into my heart.
Lying on nails to wrest a superearth
from amnesty, I start bandaging the bruised
ethos of my native conscience –
on the spike of a violence, refusing
to give up my home to fire, tending
the voiceless flora of a virgin rock.
The questions stand up, against
the black walls of silence. The blue birds
are going to fly in white desert.
Satish Verma
When voices of children are heard on the green
And laughing is heard on the hill,
My heart is at rest within my breast
And everything else is still
Then come home my children the sun is gone down
And the dews of night arise
Come come leave off play, and let us away
Till the morning appears in the skies
No no let us play, for it is yet day
And we cannot go to sleep
Besides in the sky, the little birds fly
And the hills are all covered with sheep
Well well go & play till the light fades away
And then go home to bed
The little ones leaped & shouted & laugh'd
And all the hills echoed
You toy with the idea
Of  being my Empathy
You congratulate yourself
For the humanity
You extend unto me
I smile at your eagerness
I marvel at your  youthful  face
I regret  the coming dawn which will
Denude you abruptly of all grace
My senile world
O innocent fairy
ill keep veiled in my silence
and let you  smile in your sleep
as deep as the gurgling Nile
while I stay up long into the dusks
and measure
the immeasurable..:
time.
Oft have I read that Innocence retreats
Where cooling streams salute ye summer Seats
Singing at ease she roves ye field of flowrs
Or safe with shepheards lys among the bowrs
But late alas I crossd a country fare
And found No Strephon nor Dorinda there
There Hodge & William Joynd to cully ned
While Ned was drinking Hodge & William dead
There Cicely Jeard by day the slips of Nell
& ere ye night was ended Cicely fell
Are these the Virtues which adorn the plain
Ye bards forsake your old Arcadian Vein
To sheep those tender Innocents resign
The place where swains & nymphs are said to shine
Swains twice as Wicked Nymphs but half as sage
Tis sheep alone retrieve ye golden age.
When we talked you promised
That you would never leave
Then I told you of the demons
And how they made me bleed
I made you promise crazy things
But your words weren’t enough
I couldn’t believe you loved me
I thought to love me was to tough
When I cry about my past
And say that I’m ashamed
I know that I am the one
Who is to be blamed
Then you hold me tight
And say that it’s okay
So I cry for my lack of innocence
And the things I couldn’t give away
When I can’t sleep through the night
And the memories start to hurt too much
I burn myself and tell you,
Because you’re the only one I trust
You say your better then you’re past
You tell me that I’m strong
You say that I’m the love of your life
But if you only knew
The kind of thoughts I think
And what I used to do
You tell me that it doesn’t matter
And that you love me anyway
So I cry for my stolen innocence
And the things I shouldn’t have given away
They all said my body lacked beauty
And it made my confidence fall apart
But when I let you look
You marveled at me like a work of art
I then held you close just to say
Remember this moment and don’t let it fade
So I cry for my question mark innocence
And the things I wish I gave away
I never felt a thing
Before I gave you my heart
And when those bad memories won’t fade
And I feel like I’ll fall apart
You will tell me you love me so
Then as you wrap your arms around me
And say you’ll never let me go
I know you really love me,
And you’ll keep me safe from harm
You know I’ve been hurt,
And abused in every kind of way
So I cry for my loss of innocence
And the things I gave away
Peacefully asleep
tired of the journey,
long way did she walk...
A loving hand extending,
to touch over the dead spirit.
An unknown intention...
Honestly she woke up to respond,
for a moment, face hidden;
merely a faith in between.
was everything a part of game?
An act without shame!
A relation without name.
standing apart, seeking in herself
-the lost self-
hears the applaud of the bell’s - the evil,
The evils in her, laughing over
The triumph of joy.
Preening before the mirror
saw herself fading by...
A scratch unto the face of heart,
bloods of impurities bleed,
put the sacred shroud on to herself
like the virgin Bride
with a soul of a widow...
Piping down the valleys wild,
Piping songs of pleasant glee,
On a cloud I saw a child,
And he laughing said to me:
'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'
So I piped with merry cheer.
'Piper, pipe that song again;'
So I piped: he wept to hear.
'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;
Sing thy songs of happy cheer!'
So I sung the same again,
While he wept with joy to hear.
'Piper, sit thee down and write
In a book that all may read.'
So he vanish'd from my sight;
And I pluck'd a hollow reed,
And I made a rural pen,
And I stain'd the water clear,
And I wrote my happy songs
Every child may joy to hear.
Rags and things to clean the mess,
Dull pains below the belt.
That day for you was dreamy-
Filled with smiles you never felt.
Fresh blood of yours was turned foul, brown
And drops crashed from the sky.
You laid there with a crooked grin,
But I won't ask you why.
So given chance, would you die
To save your little soul? -
Take back that day in creaking clouds
To end this 'maybe' role?
This game you play won't crown to you-
A win, but common-sense,
Can give to you, to us a brief
Return to innocence.
(after Lord George Gordon Byron)
The soft glowing radiance of her face
with hair tumbling down in a auburn tress
brings to her a unnamed kind of grace,
her thoughts do only loveliness express
as she walks with a kind of innocence
and when I meet the glance of her dear eyes
in them I can find no kind of offence,
any self-centeredness, her expressions denies,
they twinkle like the sun, like starry skies.
Piping down the valleys wild
Piping songs of pleasant glee
On a cloud I saw a child.
And he laughing said to me.
Pipe a song about a Lamb:
So I piped with merry chear,
Piper, pipe that song again--
So I piped, he wept to hear.
Drop thy pipe thy happy pipe
Sing thy songs of happy chear,
So I sung the same again
While he wept with joy to hear
Piper sit thee down and write
In a book that all may read--
So he vanished from my sight
And I pluck'd a hollow reed.
And I made a rural pen,
And I stained the water clear,
And I wrote my happy songs,
Every child may joy to hear.
Her face is beauty
Yet marred by the pain in her eyes.
The tears she sheds
Fall to the ground
Like liquid diamonds
And shatter there alone.
And I cry for her
Stolen Innocence.
Tis a beautiful thing,
The raw purity of
Innocence in Youthful Bloom.
It's meant to last forever.
Meant to eternally bless those
Endowed with such a gift.
But when choice is stolen
And Beauty turns to Brokenness
I weep for  its
Stolen Innocence.
Calm, tranquil visions
Colourful moments flutter
Free air of spirit
Innocence in small bundles
As the insect spreads its wings
Re-collect
Re-ligio
A high tide of returning faith
For the age of innocence
Le fin de toutes les ciecles
Weltschmertz too shallow for those
Who went abysses too high
Who went insanity too nigh
Go up
Super-modern stuck in
Heideggerian states of minds
Without even knowing that
New health be named after you
Carry the name the peace of glory
You sub-modern undercurrent
Talking to its future
Gather together
Powers of the world
Light up little girls’ golden matches
Re-collect little boys lost in no man’s host
Gather together and strike
Dancing light on fragility
Delicate wire walkers
Scar lit star dust dancers
Spinning ashes spread
Spread beyond the waters
You sub-modern undercurrent
Talking to its future
Re-collect
Memories of Earth risen grown up
In knife edges shortcuts torn apart
Dying a Nietzche strength in
‘they’ll call me a sickness’ testament
Michael Angelo mocking
Bartholomeus’s skin
The Moses horns bone bricked
Into the creation of Earth
Re-collect
Re-ligio
The high tide of returning faith
For the age of innocence
This is an unknown passion
A torment passion tearing to nothing
Torn to nothing brought
Torn out of nothing born
Reborn
Unmasking darkness and light
Un-dividing
A new health may carry its name
To say
To re-collect
Gather together and strike
Light steps of the paths
Stamps in sounds star bathed blessed
Sub-modern last choice manifest
Re-collect
Re-ligio
The high tide of returning faith
For the age of innocence.
In covert dim light
A nymphet came
To grace his sight
With her small frame
He caught her scent
And closed his eyes
Felt fleeting movements
Soar him high
And as they kissed
He felt the bliss
Of escalating passion
The night was young
And before long
They'll lock
In emptied satisfaction
With deep desire
He yearned to touch
Her captivating youth
Undressing her
He watched
His lovely prostitute
The streetlight glazed
His eyes went wild
Despaired to see her face,
He saw the death
Of Innocence...
For his date was just
..........A child.
Child prostitution is the most cruel of all crimes as it preys on
an innocent child who cannot defend himself.
--
May 6,2009 Tarlac City Philippines
Sentenced to death for a crime I did not commit,
Execution at dawn... such a cliché,
All of my last request's denied,
Morning arrives on the final day of my existance,
Paraded through the streets like some kind of prize,
The aroma of life so evident in my final hours,
Dragged up onto this hellish platform, dignity stripped,
These man made gallows offer such a view 0f life,
How ironic that life is  my final view when death comes to call,
Blindfold refused, rope placed around my neck,
Trembling uncontrolably... Goodbye cruel world,
Trap door opens and I fall, neck snapped like a twig,
Spiraling deeper and deeper into the darkness of the abyss,
May the maker have mercy upon my soul...
Spread the love... The peace will follow...
The Innocence of another time
Is lost forever-
The other time is lost forever-
That's the way life is
We try to hold on to it and cannot-
We remember it
And cannot bring it back.
Sleeping beside you I dreamt
I woke beside you;
Waking beside you
I thought I was dreaming.
Have you ever slept beside an ocean?
Well yes,
It is like this.
The whole motion of landscapes, of oceans
Is within her.
She is
The innocence of any flesh sleeping,
So vulnerable
No protection is needed.
In such times
The heart opens,
Contains all there is,
There being no more than her.
In what country she is
I cannot tell.
But knowing – because there is love
And it blots out all demons –
She is safe,
I can turn,
Sleep well beside her.
Waking beside her I am dreaming.
Dreaming of such wakings
I am all love’s senses woken.
I flicked of the TV
At a news report
About another child
Lost in innocence no more
I was once
An innocent child
Living so happy
Till I was dealt
One of life's blows
And just like the children
I learn of today
Losing their innocence
That's torn from their souls
It drowns us all
In the degradation of life
I want to scream
I want to shout
Make all this carnage stop
Why do you ask?
Would I even bother to say?
I just want you to know
What its like for a child
To lose in themselves
The innocence of gold
You cry with a passion
Inside your lost soul
You know not what to say
You know not what to do
You feel so alone
You feel so used
You hide all your secrets
And you cry every day
And pray ever night
Oh God take my life
You drown in your sorrows
Every single day
And wonder each time
What have I done in my life?
To deserve such cruelty
That's dealt this cruel life
But life goes on
You learn to be brave
You learn to ignore
Your family and friends
You learn to ignore
An out stretched hand
I know I am lucky
To be here today
So I advocate for children
Still trapped in this fate
The innocence of war is a lie
there is no innocence in killing people
there is no innocence in destroying part of the world
murder of plants animals and many people
where is the innocence in that
More crimes and violence in this unholy cruel world
influenced on war
Death and Karma will come to all who
support this evil devilish thing, sport, crime!
The blood of many men drip on your hands
my hands
our hands
Familys departed over politics
new borns lifes already taken away by men they don't even know
its not there fault
its yours and mine because we don't
Listen! Hear! Speak!
save the life of the real innocence
Looking to the sea, it is a line
of unbroken mountains.
It is the sky.
It is the ground. There
we live it, on it.
It is a mist
now tangent to another
quiet. Here the leaves
come, there
is the rock in evidence
or evidence.
What I come to do
is partial, partially kept.
Innocent children..sexually and mentally abused! ! I stepped in their shoes and cried in pain.If you too feel the same, then step out and spread awareness among the kids.Listen to your child.Save innocence! ! 'Stop child Abuse'! ! !
I am a happy child
With a wonderful smile
I get good grades
The teacher’s apple-pie
My mummy loves me
My daddy alike
But when my uncle loves me
I so dislike
I hate the touch
When he touches my butt
He keens to unwrap
In the warmth of his lap
I feel scared to share
Do nothing in despair
My uncle is so big
His fingers, his fist
I get the penny for the pain
A chocolate, a dress, an express train
Those keep lying in the foyer
I wish to trash them
Being a destroyer
Oh mummy! If you could just see
What it has been on me
I get nightmares even in day
I will be out of this love someday
I am smiling, wish you could see me cry
I am dancing on a dead man’s choir
The sweet lullabies he made me hear
Hurts me and my cuddly teddy bear
If only you had been right close to me
You could have seen the dead child in me
If only you had ears, to hear my cries
I would have been the apple of your eyes
No red, yellow, green or purples
I am black
Wish I could build my rainbow of colours
And get my childhood back! ! !
(06 May,2011)
THE NIGHT HAS ITS INNOCENCE
The night has its innocence
‘The fields open to the sky’
The passerbys – each to their own destination.
No war.
And I walking
So quiet inside
As if nothing we love
Could ever die.
Myrtle leaf, that ill besped
Pinest in the gladsome ray,
Soiled beneath the common tread
Far from thy protecting spray!
When the partridge o'er the sheaf
Whirred along the yellow vale,
Sad, I saw thee, heedless leaf!
Love the dalliance of the gale.
Lightly didst thou, foolish thing!
Heave and flutter to his sighs,
While the flatt'rer on his wing
Wooed and whispered thee to rise.
Gayly from thy mother stalk
Wert thou danced and wafted high;
Soon on this unsheltered walk
Flung to fade, to rot, and die!
To recapture that innocence of loved missed,
May be easier done by a poet doing it.
But when a poet isn't sitting to compose words of love...
The wish for it may be stronger than words can express.
Since words may touch emotions.
But to caress one's flesh...
In an anticipated mutual acceptance,
Is what the poet envisions as best.
For those who are poets,
In a loneliness desired to forget.
Or deny to mask in alibis.
And a poet can decide,
Whether to expose this or hide!
'So what have you chosen to do? '
Lie.
“I have walked
a lot of dark streets
all over the world.”
“You have got
a lot of confidence.”
“How can you tell? ”
“It is in all
your mannerisms.”
“I may look a fool
but I am not.
I may play the fool
but I am not.”
“I may play the fool
but I lost the beauty
of youth’s innocence
at a younger tender age.”
“That is why I treasure
innocence so deeply.
A great actor disappears
in the art of invisibility.”
How few observe
raw social reality.
Truth written in echo lines
stage idealized actuality.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
The eye of the sunflower
Stares into the clear skies;
Acres of bright, yellow effluence
Mimic
The voice of innocence.
Red earth
Weaves a dissolving silence
Into the wilderness of the valley.
The phantoms are exiled to meditation
By the voice of innocence.
In the chosen web,
Stirs a fly, vanquished to submission.
The pastures of winged worlds are closed
And the prey trembles
With the voice of innocence.
The innocence of childhood it is a marvellous thing
And all children are untainted in their life's early Spring
But by the time they've reached their teens their innocence they've lost
And the experience that we gain from age always comes at a cost.
When children lose their innocence they lose their gift of joy
The joy that comes from innocence in every young girl and boy
Compared to us young children see life quite differently
Of the guilt of corruption they are completely free.
I have such happy memories of when I was a boy
My childhood years were happy years but time just seemed to fly
And the experience that I've gained from life it came at a great cost
For I lost something beautiful when innocence I lost.
January
and the afternoon sunlight
lasted that little bit longer
like an unexpected, perfect Christmas present
that got delayed in the mail
and I'm filled with a sheer gratitude
that somehow passed me by
in long, hot, lazy, selfish, glorious
summer
! 4th January is called here as Uttrayan
Tilting of Sun from South to Uttar (North)
The position of sun will alter
The days from now onwards will be longer
Sky will be full of kites
The slogans will be chanted with full religious rites
Whole population will be on roof top
The kites will be flying non stop
Billions of rupees will be spent on kites
Many birds will loose their lives
The loss of human lives too from free fall
Religious fever with all advices to receive unheeded call
It has witnessed age long tradition
Old or young take part without any reservation
Festival of great fervor with message and joy
Open for all irrespective of anything to participate and enjoy
Not in many parts but in some of the Indian parts it is known
The Chinese are believed to be originator with tradition to own
The favorable wind bring competition to the climax
Complete holiday to spend the day with joy and relax
The climate change is linked with the festival
The spring also coincides with its arrival
The winter may be losing its grip from here on
The hard climate may soon be forgotten or gone
The Wise Men will unlearn your name.
Above your head no star will flame.
One weary sound will be the same—
the hoarse roar of the gale.
The shadows fall from your tired eyes
as your lone bedside candle dies,
for here the calendar breeds nights
till stores of candles fail.
What prompts this melancholy key?
A long familiar melody.
It sounds again. So let it be.
Let it sound from this night.
Let it sound in my hour of  death—
as gratefulness of eyes and lips
for that which sometimes makes us lift
our gaze to the far sky.
You glare in silence at the wall.
Your stocking gapes: no gifts at all.
It's clear that you are now too old
to trust in good Saint Nick;
that it's too late for miracles.
—But suddenly, lifting your eyes
to heaven's light, you realize:
your life is a sheer gift.
Aj 26 January ka din aytihaasic hai
Bharat k gantantra ka naya ek aur saal hai
1950 main hua is din hamare desh ka laagoo samvidhan hai
Is din tak pahunchne k lie desh ne die bahut balidaan hai
Kehte kehte chad gye sooli bharat maa mahaan hai
Jai jawan jai kisaan mera bharat mahaan hai
Is din hai manata jalsa desh pura nikalti bahut badi jhaanki hai
Hue shaheed vatan par jo unhe samman die jaate hain
Aj k din hi naya savera bharat desh main aya tha
Naye daur ki shuruaat hui thi aj tiranga lehraaya tha
Aj aazaad bharat main surya apni shreshth puri main roshni ug aaya tha
Nai umeed nai kiran asha ki pure bharat par barsaya tha
Laal kile sansad bhavan par hamara tiranga lehraya tha
Rabindranath tagore ne JAN GAN MAN Rashtra Gaan  aj k lie sajaya tha
Shaheed hue jo is din k lie unka swapn pura hua tha
Dekha tha jo aazaad bharat ka unke aankhon se diltak samaya tha
Aj k din se hi bharat loktantrik kehlaya hai
Un veeron k balidan se hi bharat k logon ne ye sukh paya hai
Aj unke hath main hak kitne hai
Kaun pradhan kaun mukhya bane ye janta k hi haq main hai
Apni marzi se jahan apna mantri hum chunte hain
Bediyon ki jagah ab adhikar hamare hote hain
Aj k din se hi sab
JANTA KA JANTA DWARA JANTA K LIE
Kehlaya hai
Aazaadi ka sahi mayane main isdin parcham lehraya hai
Na Raja na Prajaa koi ab bas janta ko Raja banaya hai
Saal beete beete kitne har saal gantantra diwas manaya hai
Tyohaaron se bhi zyada mehetva is din ne paaya hai
Magar na jane kho gya kahan wah desh hamara jo kbhi praano se bhi pyara tha
Basanti chola od kar bhagat ne jis maa ki laaj ko bachaya tha
Laaj bachate hue praanon ko aazaadi ki aahuti chadaya tha
Maila ho gya bharat maa ka aj wahi aanchal kukarmon se beton k hi uske uski izzat ganwai hai
Shok manati hogi maa bhi kaisa ye din aj mere pooton ne dikhaya hai
Lete hain dahej hoti hai kanya bhrun hatya purzor se yahan hai
Aurat k daaman ko kaise aj k durshaasanon ne bhare bazaar utaara hai
Na beti na behen na maa ko baksha sabka cheerharan kardaala hai
Kbhi jin netaon ne desh ko maa bataya tha
Hamne bhi yahi maan kar aj tk desh unhe thamaya tha
Chor ho gye hain aj wo sab khoon karke bhi sansad main hain baithe
Mandir hai jo hamare lok tantra ka wahan gaaliyan abhadra shabd hain kehte
Bhrashtachar se lipt hua hai mera jo desh mahaan tha
Jo roke jo toke uska khoon kar dia ya karwaya jaata hai
Toot gya choor choor ho gya subhash bhagat ne jo sapna apne desh ka dekha tha
Dekhte honge aasman se jab pyare desh ko apne
Rote honge jaane kitna koste honge khudko kitne
Kehte honge ye swap to Nhi dekha tha Maine apne bhaarat aazad ka
Ye kya hogya maa ko meri kahan rakshak hain iske samman ka
Haye re kaisa desh hogya mera
Bharashtachar se lipt ho gya desh mera
Khoon kharaba dahej pratadna balatkaar se lipt hua
Ye kaise keechad main hain reh raha hai desh mera ghar mera
Ab agar ham na sudhre to nai peedi ko Kya sikhayenge
Kya aisa desh ham unko sawnpenge dikhlayenge
Aj k din ham sab bharat waasi pran ek lenge
Na ghoos denge
Na rishwat lenge
Apne desh ko nhi bikayenge
Na ab koi lega dahej
Na hogi ab Kanya bhrun Hatya
Na balatkaar ab honge
Apne desh ki naari ko samman ham dilayenge
Safar hai mushkil kadhin dagar hai
Magar manzil utni door nhi
Door to 26 January 1950 thi
Phir bhi tyag balidaan se veeron k kain
Manzil hame mili zaroor thi
Ab bas ho gya bahut
Mera desh thag gya lut gya bahut loot gya khudko bahut
Ab sudhar ki baari hai
Bharat maa ko phirse manana ab zimmedari hamari hai
Inki izzat raksha karna yahi ab hamne thani hai
Naye bharat ko har burai se aazaadi dene ki sangharsh ki baari ab hamari hai
HINDI HAIN HUM WATAN HINDUSTAN HAMARA
Sahi maayane main samajhne ki baari hai
Phirse bharat maata k hath main sone k kangan pehne dekhen ye sawap hamara yahi soch hamari hai
Sone ki chidiya kahaaye phirse apni imaandaari kaabiliyat aur mehnat k dam par aisa hum karjaenge
Sahi maayane Gantantra diwas k samjhenge samjhayenge
Gantantra k diwas par aaj apne bure vichaaron se aazaadi hamne paani hai
Desh ko burai aur bure logon se aazaadi ab hame khudko aur desh ko apne dilaani hai..
JAI HIND….HAPPY REPUBLIC DAY
Today's Thirtieth January
Write-if you must
Ask not for ink
Transfer tears on paper.
Sing-if you must
But break the Veena first and Harmonize the revolver.
O Painter ! Paint not gods or angels
Paint the dead man- the Messiah-
Infuse life in his life-less body
Lying still on the sands of Jamuna.
O Sculptor ! Make not, but behold
Love's last sigh-after being bullet-ed
Steel-clad Peace cries vehemently.
O Historian ! Write not- this dark page
Coming centuries will get blackened.
O Poet ! rhyme not- this hatred
Dead-living will be unable to live.
O Scientist ! Bomb not with atoms
Nagasaki is still the street of the dead
Underneath the tanks is trampled
Asia's glory- Korea.
Silence : O temple-bells
Silence : O mosque-priests
Silence : O book of religion
Because world's pacifist is tongue-tied.
Arise ! Arise ! All today
To go to Raj Ghat
Where-
Imagination is weaving a coffin
Couplets are inflaming the flames
Epics are holding their breath
Happiness is embracing unhappiness.
But stay ! Touch not
His SAMADHI
With your blood-stained fingers.
If you want to pray
Go to the pathway
Where Gandhi's in millions
Die daily.
(Translated by R.P.Chaddah)
Bombs are flying,
Kids are crying
In a place
That on the face
Is called Vietnam
It's all the same,
Despite it's fame,
Death is Death,
Life's last breath,
Privilege of the damned...
What is it now?
To kill them how?
What will it be?
Him or Me?
Kill the Red!
Let them come!
Drop the Bomb!
And sing this song,
We can't go wrong,
For we'll all be dead!
The garnet is a complicated and lesser known gemstone. There is a Family of Garnets (seven major classifications)   and they are all very hard glassy silicates. They contain a variety of metals and have a wide colour range from black to colourless. Some rare forms of Garnet are more valuable than diamonds.
Garnet - crystal structure rhombic
Deep red - orange - yellow - purple
Green and colourless - brown and black.
Green for nature - red for power
Black for death and mauve for grieving
Worn for protection from the plague
Gem exchanged when friends are leaving
Rhombic structure crystal - Garnet
Garnet January's birthstone
Capricorn her birth sign twin
Found in North and South America
Guards from poison plague and sin.
Greeks all wore them to keep bright
Romans wore them with engraving
To protect them through the night.
Birthstone January's Garnet.
Seven major forms for Garnet
Deep red Pyrope precious necklace
Graced the necks of rich Victorians
Rhodolite is deep rich purple
The purest green is Demantido
The Garnet has a secret power
It really peps up one's libido! ! !
Garnet for forms - major seven.
Versatile is gemstone Garnet
Garnet crystal structure rhombic
Garnet January's birthstone
Seven major forms for Garnet.
Garnet for forms - major seven
Birthstone January's Garnet
Rhombic structure crystal Garnet
Garnet gemstone is versatile.
Thsi poem is dedicated to the Angel of January,
(John Knight - Frosty Colchester - 1 February 2010)
1.
LORD, what I once had done with youthful might,
Had I been from the first true to the truth,
Grant me, now old, to do-with better sight,
And humbler heart, if not the brain of youth;
So wilt thou, in thy gentleness and ruth,
Lead back thy old soul, by the path of pain,
Round to his best-young eyes and heart and brain.
2.
A dim aurora rises in my east,
Beyond the line of jagged questions hoar,
As if the head of our intombed High Priest
Began to glow behind the unopened door:
Sure the gold wings will soon rise from the gray!-
They rise not. Up I rise, press on the more,
To meet the slow coming of the Master's day.
3.
Sometimes I wake, and, lo! I have forgot,
And drifted out upon an ebbing sea!
My soul that was at rest now resteth not,
For I am with myself and not with thee;
Truth seems a blind moon in a glaring morn,
Where nothing is but sick-heart vanity:
Oh, thou who knowest! save thy child forlorn.
4.
Death, like high faith, levelling, lifteth all.
When I awake, my daughter and my son,
Grown sister and brother, in my arms shall fall,
Tenfold my girl and boy. Sure every one
Of all the brood to the old wings will run.
Whole-hearted is my worship of the man
From whom my earthly history began.
5.
Thy fishes breathe but where thy waters roll;
Thy birds fly but within thy airy sea;
My soul breathes only in thy infinite soul;
I breathe, I think, I love, I live but thee.
Oh breathe, oh think,-O Love, live into me;
Unworthy is my life till all divine,
Till thou see in me only what is thine.
6.
Then shall I breathe in sweetest sharing, then
Think in harmonious consort with my kin;
Then shall I love well all my father's men,
Feel one with theirs the life my heart within.
Oh brothers! sisters holy! hearts divine!
Then I shall be all yours, and nothing mine-
To every human heart a mother-twin.
7.
I see a child before an empty house,
Knocking and knocking at the closed door;
He wakes dull echoes-but nor man nor mouse,
If he stood knocking there for evermore.-
A mother angel, see! folding each wing,
Soft-walking, crosses straight the empty floor,
And opens to the obstinate praying thing.
8.
Were there but some deep, holy spell, whereby
Always I should remember thee-some mode
Of feeling the pure heat-throb momently
Of the spirit-fire still uttering this I!-
Lord, see thou to it, take thou remembrance' load:
Only when I bethink me can I cry;
Remember thou, and prick me with love's goad.
9.
If to myself-'God sometimes interferes'-
I said, my faith at once would be struck blind.
I see him all in all, the lifing mind,
Or nowhere in the vacant miles and years.
A love he is that watches and that hears,
Or but a mist fumed up from minds of men,
Whose fear and hope reach out beyond their ken.
10.
When I no more can stir my soul to move,
And life is but the ashes of a fire;
When I can but remember that my heart
Once used to live and love, long and aspire,-
Oh, be thou then the first, the one thou art;
Be thou the calling, before all answering love,
And in me wake hope, fear, boundless desire.
11.
I thought that I had lost thee; but, behold!
Thou comest to me from the horizon low,
Across the fields outspread of green and gold-
Fair carpet for thy feet to come and go.
Whence I know not, or how to me thou art come!-
Not less my spirit with calm bliss doth glow,
Meeting thee only thus, in nature vague and dumb.
12.
Doubt swells and surges, with swelling doubt behind!
My soul in storm is but a tattered sail,
Streaming its ribbons on the torrent gale;
In calm, 'tis but a limp and flapping thing:
Oh! swell it with thy breath; make it a wing,-
To sweep through thee the ocean, with thee the wind
Nor rest until in thee its haven it shall find.
13.
The idle flapping of the sail is doubt;
Faith swells it full to breast the breasting seas.
Bold, conscience, fast, and rule the ruling helm;
Hell's freezing north no tempest can send out,
But it shall toss thee homeward to thy leas;
Boisterous wave-crest never shall o'erwhelm
Thy sea-float bark as safe as field-borne rooted elm.
14.
Sometimes, hard-trying, it seems I cannot pray-
For doubt, and pain, and anger, and all strife.
Yet some poor half-fledged prayer-bird from the nest
May fall, flit, fly, perch-crouch in the bowery breast
Of the large, nation-healing tree of life;-
Moveless there sit through all the burning day,
And on my heart at night a fresh leaf cooling lay.
15.
My harvest withers. Health, my means to live-
All things seem rushing straight into the dark.
But the dark still is God. I would not give
The smallest silver-piece to turn the rush
Backward or sideways. Am I not a spark
Of him who is the light?-Fair hope doth flush
My east.-Divine success-Oh, hush and hark!
16.
Thy will be done. I yield up everything.
'The life is more than meat'-then more than health;
'The body more than raiment'-then than wealth;
The hairs I made not, thou art numbering.
Thou art my life-I the brook, thou the spring.
Because thine eyes are open, I can see;
Because thou art thyself, 'tis therefore I am me.
17.
No sickness can come near to blast my health;
My life depends not upon any meat;
My bread comes not from any human tilth;
No wings will grow upon my changeless wealth;
Wrong cannot touch it, violence or deceit;
Thou art my life, my health, my bank, my barn-
And from all other gods thou plain dost warn.
18.
Care thou for mine whom I must leave behind;
Care that they know who 'tis for them takes care;
Thy present patience help them still to bear;
Lord, keep them clearing, growing, heart and mind;
In one thy oneness us together bind;
Last earthly prayer with which to thee I cling-
Grant that, save love, we owe not anything.
19.
'Tis well, for unembodied thought a live,
True house to build-of stubble, wood, nor hay;
So, like bees round the flower by which they thrive,
My thoughts are busy with the informing truth,
And as I build, I feed, and grow in youth-
Hoping to stand fresh, clean, and strong, and gay,
When up the east comes dawning His great day.
20.
Thy will is truth-'tis therefore fate, the strong.
Would that my will did sweep full swing with thine!
Then harmony with every spheric song,
And conscious power, would give sureness divine.
Who thinks to thread thy great laws' onward throng,
Is as a fly that creeps his foolish way
Athwart an engine's wheels in smooth resistless play.
21.
Thou in my heart hast planted, gardener divine,
A scion of the tree of life: it grows;
But not in every wind or weather it blows;
The leaves fall sometimes from the baby tree,
And the life-power seems melting into pine;
Yet still the sap keeps struggling to the shine,
And the unseen root clings cramplike unto thee.
22.
Do thou, my God, my spirit's weather control;
And as I do not gloom though the day be dun,
Let me not gloom when earth-born vapours roll
Across the infinite zenith of my soul.
Should sudden brain-frost through the heart's summer run,
Cold, weary, joyless, waste of air and sun,
Thou art my south, my summer-wind, my all, my one.
23.
O Life, why dost thou close me up in death?
O Health, why make me inhabit heaviness?-
I ask, yet know: the sum of this distress,
Pang-haunted body, sore-dismayed mind,
Is but the egg that rounds the winged faith;
When that its path into the air shall find,
My heart will follow, high above cold, rain, and wind.
24.
I can no more than lift my weary eyes;
Therefore I lift my weary eyes-no more.
But my eyes pull my heart, and that, before
'Tis well awake, knocks where the conscience lies;
Conscience runs quick to the spirit's hidden door:
Straightway, from every sky-ward window, cries
Up to the Father's listening ears arise.
25.
Not in my fancy now I search to find thee;
Not in its loftiest forms would shape or bind thee;
I cry to one whom I can never know,
Filling me with an infinite overflow;
Not to a shape that dwells within my heart,
Clothed in perfections love and truth assigned thee,
But to the God thou knowest that thou art.
26.
Not, Lord, because I have done well or ill;
Not that my mind looks up to thee clear-eyed;
Not that it struggles in fast cerements tied;
Not that I need thee daily sorer still;
Not that I wretched, wander from thy will;
Not now for any cause to thee I cry,
But this, that thou art thou, and here am I.
27.
Yestereve, Death came, and knocked at my thin door.
I from my window looked: the thing I saw,
The shape uncouth, I had not seen before.
I was disturbed-with fear, in sooth, not awe;
Whereof ashamed, I instantly did rouse
My will to seek thee-only to fear the more:
Alas! I could not find thee in the house.
28.
I was like Peter when he began to sink.
To thee a new prayer therefore I have got-
That, when Death comes in earnest to my door,
Thou wouldst thyself go, when the latch doth clink,
And lead him to my room, up to my cot;
Then hold thy child's hand, hold and leave him not,
Till Death has done with him for evermore.
29.
Till Death has done with him?-Ah, leave me then!
And Death has done with me, oh, nevermore!
He comes-and goes-to leave me in thy arms,
Nearer thy heart, oh, nearer than before!
To lay thy child, naked, new-born again
Of mother earth, crept free through many harms,
Upon thy bosom-still to the very core.
30.
Come to me, Lord: I will not speculate how,
Nor think at which door I would have thee appear,
Nor put off calling till my floors be swept,
But cry, 'Come, Lord, come any way, come now.'
Doors, windows, I throw wide; my head I bow,
And sit like some one who so long has slept
That he knows nothing till his life draw near.
31.
O Lord, I have been talking to the people;
Thought's wheels have round me whirled a fiery zone,
And the recoil of my words' airy ripple
My heart unheedful has puffed up and blown.
Therefore I cast myself before thee prone:
Lay cool hands on my burning brain, and press
From my weak heart the swelling emptiness.
O Winter! frozen pulse and heart of fire,
What loss is theirs who from thy kingdom turn
Dismayed, and think thy snow a sculptured urn
Of death! Far sooner in midsummer tire
The streams than under ice. June could not hire
Her roses to forego the strength they learn
In sleeping on thy breast. No fires can burn
The bridges thou dost lay where men desire
In vain to build.
O Heart, when Love's sun goes
To northward, and the sounds of singing cease,
Keep warm by inner fires, and rest in peace.
Sleep on content, as sleeps the patient rose.
Walk boldly on the white untrodden snows,
The winter is the winter's own release.
Last year my mother died.
I was not there; she died alone.
It was mid-winter when
we buried her. The roads were treacherous
that day, the coldest of the year.
Few people made it to the funeral,
the church was nearly empty.
My son and daughter each
read out a poem
she had written in her younger days.
The priest, who had not known her,
said the prayers. From there we went
by car, the tyres crunching on the ice,
to where the grave had been prepared
in the cemetery that waited
on the outskirts of the town.
The ground was frozen hard.
We stood and listened to the prayers
the priest intoned, tall and upright
there above the open grave while
all the time the icy wind blew
flurries of snow over the graves
and by the groves of evergreens,
So cold, so bleak, so utterly unforgettable
the scene, but what was strange:
I did not mind the cold,
that seeped into my heart and bones.
It seemed somehow appropriate.
G-ood morning sunshine
L-ets the dawn break with glee;
A-iming to make a beautiful
D-ay of mirth and ecstasy.
Y-ear added to the lady is something to remember;
S-adness should step back to make her feel glad and better.
M-oonlight shadows have faded,
A-fter the night walks away;
E-very twenty-second January, she celebrates her birthday.
From dawn to dusk
I see a timid sun
And overbearing clouds
Playing upon our dreams
The sun wants to give fire
To our extinguishing hopes
But clouds are full of mischief
They overshadow the sun
And our dreams die of cold.
Nosheen Irfan © 2016
All Rights Reserved
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
My class is all here
Down to each little sneer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Those cute little creatures
Have nothing to fear
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Still knowing that teacher's
not entirely all here
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Each little tear
Makes it perfectly clear
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
A day off is coming
And hopefully near
a sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
It's harder and harder
Maintaining my leer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Perhaps my behavior's
becoming quite queer
A sick day a sick day
I'll not make it all year
Perhaps in the morning
I'll call in and cheer
A SICK DAY A SICK DAY
I GOT A PAIN IN MY EAR
Alas...I can hear my principle sneer
With a resigning smirk easy to hear
NO SICK DAY NO SICK DAY
SORRY MY DEAR
NO SICK DAYS NO SICK DAYS
REMAINING THIS YEAR
(copyright 1993-2019)
The glittering roofs are still with frost; each worn
Black chimney builds into the quiet sky
Its curling pile to crumble silently.
Far out to westward on the edge of morn,
The slender misty city towers up-borne
Glimmer faint rose against the pallid blue;
And yonder on those northern hills, the hue
Of amethyst, hang fleeces dull as horn.
And here behind me come the woodmen's sleighs
With shouts and clamorous squeakings; might and main
Up the steep slope the horses stamp and strain,
Urged on by hoarse-tongued drivers—cheeks ablaze,
Iced beards and frozen eyelids—team by team,
With frost-fringed flanks, and nostrils jetting steam.
I have marched
To TRUMP's siren call
His promise
'A better World for us all'
Sixteen days,
His day in the Sun approaches
We Americans
And the World await
'Hail Caesar'
it's one of those rare winter nights
when it's not freezing cold
but crazy windy weather
rain poured down the whole day long
lightning flashed in the sky
and there is a sense of danger
yes this weather really scares me
I feel my heart beat faster
and I long for peace and calm
yet it is winter, it's to be expected
the temperature is dropping like crazy
and I know winter is purple pink and violet
O watch out for Labour's leadership election!
Here are some of the risible contenders
In this donkey derby: the charmless Keir Starmer;
The teary eyed Lisa Nandy; the narcissist Jess Phillips;
The sanctimonious 'Lady Nugee' and the
Duplicitous David Lammy. If you fancy
A bet on an outsider, there's always the cold,
Calculated Yvette Cooper: yet another
Loyal Blairite. There's sure to be a swing to the right
Whoever wins. I couldn't care less as I'm now
Completely finished with the ridiculous, pointless
And pompous political class: that stabbed that true
Socialist Jeremy Corbyn in the back; and
So I won't be voting Labour ever again!
It looks like a different dawn, an amazing dawn,
earth is the same, skies are the same,
but the sun has come with a different name,
account of love with the bank of heaven, although overdrawn,
account though debited by heavy interests in advance,
but the losses incurred in the leaving year made up at a glance.
I see the aurora is melting and the earth is washed,
am I the same man who was crying in pains,
who looked so ugly with many stains,
by his own conscience in the night was lashed,
see my charms your attention I have drawn,
I am over sure it's a different dawn!
What a magic is love that brings smiles,
and turns eyes in the shining stars,
greetings exchanged by the solders at wars,
on the shoulder of air are the paper projectiles,
the dragon enemy is changed in a prawn!
Definitely my dear it's a different dawn!
A poem is written by a soldier in a trench,
wait let me see what's written on the paper,
"Your beloved is waiting with tears scrapper.
Wish to see you kissing her on a bench,
In a mini skirt bare footed on the lawn,
on her rosy cheeks is a different dawn! "
Cease fire my enemy come out come too close,
overleaf of a letter from my charming sweetheart
my blood gave color to a soldier's art,
It's front line I don't have a real rose,
celebrate and pray for the next year's dawn,
with her and with the roses of sweet home's lawn!
But this year too, for the beloveds let us celebrate,
let us wish each other the best and wait for the fate.
(During First World War, invention of Machine Guns paralyzed the war. On Christmas and other like days the fighting forces waived white flags and celebrated the happy days jointly)
Where Humber pours his rich commercial stream,
There dwelt a wretch, who breathed but to blaspheme.
In subterraneous caves his life he led,
Black as the mine, in which he wrought for bread.
When on a day, emerging from the deep,
A Sabbath-day, (such Sabbaths thousands keep!)
The wages of his weekly toil he bore
To buy a cock -- whose blood might win him more;
As if the noblest of the feathered kind
Were but for battle and for death designed;
As if the consecrated hours were meant
For sport, to minds on cruelty intent.
It changed, (such chances Providence obey,)
He met a fellow-labourer on the way,
Whose heart the same desires had once inflamed,
But now the savage temper was reclaimed.
Persuasion on his lips had taken place;
For all plead well who plead the cause of grace.
His iron-heart with Scripture he assailed,
Wooed him to hear a sermon, and prevailed.
His faithful bow the mighty preacher drew,
Swift as the lightning-glimpse the arrow flew.
He wept; he trembled; cast his eyes around,
To find a worse than he; but none he found.
He felt his sins, and wondered he should feel.
Grace made the wound, and grace alone could heal.
Now farewell oaths, and blasphemies, and lies!
He quits the sinner's for the martyr's prize.
That holy day was washed with many a tear,
Gilded with hope, yet shaded too by fear.
The next his swarthy brethren of the mine
Learned by his altered speech, the change divine,
Laughed when they should have wept, and swore the day
Was nigh when he would swear as fast as they.
'No,' said the penitent: 'such words shall share
This breath no more; devoted now to prayer.
Oh! if thou seest, (thine eye the future sees,)
That I shall yet again blaspheme, like these,
Now strike me to the ground, on which I kneel,
Ere yet this heart relapses into steel;
Now take me to that heaven I once defied,
Thy presence, thy embrace!' -- He spoke, and died!
Just another day
At the office, and
Not one single person actually
Used the copier
All day, and the
Reason?
You pulled the plug on it!
(Written Jan 2014)
January
Is
A new month
A new start for me
To learn new things
To learn to let go of my anger
And open up my heart
And to listen to what my heart
Is saying
It is waking up
From a long painful journey
Of last summer
I love you all the time
Sunsets
January
Thanks god you are mild
Because I hate the cold
When, to despoil my native France,
With flaming torch and cruel sword
And boisterous drums her foeman comes,
I curse him and his vandal horde!
Yet, what avail accrues to her,
If we assume the garb of woe?
Let's merry be,--in laughter we
May rescue somewhat from the foe!
Ah, many a brave man trembles now.
I (coward!) show no sign of fear;
When Bacchus sends his blessing, friends,
I drown my panic in his cheer.
Come, gather round my humble board,
And let the sparkling wassail flow,--
Chuckling to think, the while you drink,
"This much we rescue from the foe!"
My creditors beset me so
And so environed my abode,
That I agreed, despite my need,
To settle up the debts I owed;
When suddenly there came the news
Of this invasion, as you know;
I'll pay no score; pray, lend me more,--
I--I will keep it from the foe!
Now here's my mistress,--pretty dear!--
Feigns terror at this martial noise,
And yet, methinks, the artful minx
Would like to meet those soldier boys!
I tell her that they're coarse and rude,
Yet feel she don't believe 'em so,--
Well, never mind; so she be kind,
That much I rescue from the foe!
If, brothers, hope shall have in store
For us and ours no friendly glance,
Let's rather die than raise a cry
Of welcome to the foes of France!
But, like the swan that dying sings,
Let us, O Frenchmen, singing go,--
Then shall our cheer, when death is near,
Be so much rescued from the foe!
May your year be full of joy;
May laughter fill your days;
May morning's light bring fresh delight
Expelling dreary haze;
May friends and loved ones ever buoy
A heart weighed down by strife;
And may serenity alight
From the simple things in life.
The freezing wind rips raw through my skin.
The sand supports my heavy form
And I couldn’t wait to take the plunge.
My mind and body are at ease -
Because there’s nobody demanding an answer,
There’s no-one to answer back.
As comfortable as sleep.
The sea breaks like pages of poetry
And I drown peacefully between the sheets.
(doggerel) January Clearance
"JANUARY CLEARANCE"
Has made an appearance
O'er The Whitehouse, in smoke, in the sky
Some sky-writer prankster
(now rated a gangster)
Is pursued by the staunch FBI
(I will re-run this in the election year..2020)
Frangipani's January Magic
When winter woes witherto emptiness
Like you wither wintered
O' Frangipani, blissis out in happy tears
Like your buddy fragrance sprouts
Mid the rift of winter and spring
Ask me not of my happy tears
Stop me not from those droplets
Foreach of them mirrors magical
Ask me not what or who
I know that you know well
In glistening fragrance of wafted love
Who else? you alone caress
With velvetytouch this 'January'
Cajoling, consoling, airing sweetly
Warding off erstwhile reeking stench
Frangipani(Plumeria rubra acutifolia)- a flowering tree
नीरज जी की कविता व गीतों से मेरा लगाव बहुत पुराना है
साठ वर्ष हुये जब "नीरज की पाती" एक रूपए में खरीदी थी
उसके बाद स्कूल और कॉलेज के दिनों में उन्हें सामने सुना
कविता पढ़ने का उनका ग़ज़ब का स्टाइल था- ठहरावदार
यहाँ तक कि वे अपने फ़िल्मी गीत भी उसी अंदाज़ में सुनाते
‘स्वप्न झरे फूल से' ‘ऐ भाई ज़रा देख के चलो' व अन्य गीत
वह आम आदमी के लिए उसी की भाषा में कविता करते थे
उनकी पुण्यतिथि पर हमारी श्रद्धांजलि उन्हीं की पंक्तियों द्वारा:
क्या करेगा प्यार वो भगवान को
क्या करेगा प्यार वो ईमान को.
जन्म ले कर गोद में इंसान की
कर न पाया प्यार जो इंसान को
Pale, then enkindled,
light
advancing,
emblazoning
summits of palm and pine,
the dew
lingering,
scripture of
scintillas.
Soon the roar
of mowers
cropping the already short
grass of lawns,
men with long-nozzled
cylinders of pesticide
poking at weeds,
at moss in cracks of cement,
and louder roar
of helicopters off to spray
vineyards where braceros try
to hold their breath,
and in the distance, bulldozers, excavators,
babel of destructive construction.
Banded by deep
oakshadow, airy
shadow of eucalyptus,
miner's lettuce,
tender, untasted,
and other grass, unmown,
luxuriant,
no green more brilliant.
Fragile paradise.
. . . .
At day's end the whole sky,
vast, unstinting, flooded with transparent
mauve,
tint of wisteria,
cloudless
over the malls, the industrial parks,
the homes with the lights going on,
the homeless arranging their bundles.
. . . .
Who can utter
the poignance of all that is constantly
threatened, invaded, expended
and constantly
nevertheless
persists in beauty,
tranquil as this young moon
just risen and slowly
drinking light
from the vanished sun.
Who can utter
the praise of such generosity
or the shame?
The cold winds of January from the north east does blow
And the weather is cold quite cold enough for to snow
And the hungry birds silent on the naked hedgerow
In the flat and rushy fields where the Blackwater flow.
January in Duhallow from here far away
In the chill of the morning the frost bound fields gray
In the farmyard sheds cattle bellow for silage or hay
Where the sun seldom shines on a January day.
The distinctive harsh caws of the silver backed crow
In the Season where grass does refuse for to grow
And few cars on the roadway that leads to the town
Near where the river flows bank high in flood waters of brown.
In January in Duhallow the old fields looking bare
With the harsh chill of Winter in the cold Morning air
And at least eight long weeks till the first breath of Spring
When Nature will bloom and her wild birds will sing.
i could walk carefree
in tokyo streets and lanes
in october, november and early december
in my T-Shirt treating it as spring but not january
when the temperature would suddenly take a dip
like an olympic swimmer with fiery ambition
plunging into the pool
the chill bites into the most sensitive parts
near the chest, setting the bodice trembling,
teeth hitting each other the way dad shunts his soroban beads
shaking like the winter breeze on and off, on and off
throughout the lanes and streets
laughters, songs trail the ears
on and off, on and off as the izakaya  door
opens to either welcome or sends off some customers
the cold and loneliness of the streets
make these drinking houses
feel like a happy family where children and parents
crowd together for their nightly fun
january in tokyo could either be warm or cold
for lovers to cling closer to each other in their  walk
for tired managers to go for atsukan to warm up their nerves
for the homeless, everything  feels so colder than they  should be
their hearts take a dip each time they hear laughter and songs
from the izakaya
inspired by
In January
Only one cell in the frozen hive of night
is lit, or so it seems to us:
this Vietnamese café, with its oily light,
its odors whose colorful shapes are like flowers.
Laughter and talking, the tick of chopsticks.
Beyond the glass, the wintry city
creaks like an ancient wooden bridge.
A great wind rushes under all of us.
The bigger the window, the more it trembles.
In January it's so nice,
While slipping on the sliding ice,
To sip hot chicken soup with rice.
Sipping once, sipping twice,
Sipping chicken soup with rice.
Only one cell in the frozen hive of night
is lit, or so it seems to us:
this Vietnamese café, with its oily light,
its odors whose colorful shapes are like flowers.
Laughter and talking, the tick of chopsticks.
Beyond the glass, the wintry city
creaks like an ancient wooden bridge.
A great wind rushes under all of us.
The bigger the window, the more it trembles.
Original English Poem is by Maurice Sendak
मूल अंग्रेजी कविता के लेखक मौरिस सेंडेक
Hindi Translation is by Rajnish Manga
हिंदी अनुवाद रजनीश मंगा द्वारा
............................................. ..................................
In January it's so nice,
While slipping on the sliding ice,
To sip hot chicken soup with rice.
Sipping once, sipping twice,
Sipping chicken soup with rice.
***
जनवरी के माह की हर बात न्यारी है
बर्फ़ में फिसलना भी आह्लाद्कारी है
चावलों के साथ गर्म चिकन सूप हितकारी है
घूँट घूँट कर पीते जाना बड़ा गुणकारी है
चावलों के साथ चिकन सूप हितकारी है
Today is National Youth Day,
Swami Vivekananda's birthday,
His ideals, philosophic truth,
A source of inspiration, for youth,
Though died young at thirty two,
He left his indelible due.
________________________________
Happe nings | 09.01.2020 |
Topic: youth, truth
Walking in the light
The sun shines bright
Knowing in my heart that this is right
I still keep walking, walking, walking
Walking away from you
Walking away from me
Running away from us
Mixed emotions in my head
Wanna turn back but I still keep walking
Head up in the sky
No questions
No asking why
I'm flying high
I'm leaving with no good byes
Smiling, I made the right choice
But I still hear your voice running in my head
I am not taking back what I said
I have to keep walking, running, escaping...from you
You lied
I cried
I was hurting dead inside
Trying so hard to show my pride
It's hard with tears in your eyes
'Be strong' they say
'Don't be weak'
People cry not because they are weak
It's because they have been strong for too long
A new me starting over
I've landed on my 4-leaf clover
Best of luck you'll always be in my heart
But right now I need a new start to finish my end
Laugh more
Smile more
Saying Amen!
You were a great friend
Now it's time for my heart to mend...
Pavement slipp'ry, people sneezing,
Lords in ermine, beggars freezing ;
Titled gluttons dainties carving,
Genius in a garret starving.
Lofty mansions, warm and spacious ;
Courtiers clinging and voracious ;
Misers scarce the wretched heeding ;
Gallant soldiers fighting, bleeding.
Wives who laugh at passive spouses ;
Theatres, and meeting-houses ;
Balls, where simp'ring misses languish ;
Hospitals, and groans of anguish.
Arts and sciences bewailing ;
Commerce drooping, credit failing ;
Placemen mocking subjects loyal ;
Separations, weddings royal.
Authors who can't earn a dinner ;
Many a subtle rogue a winner ;
Fugitives for shelter seeking ;
Misers hoarding, tradesmen breaking.
Taste and talents quite deserted ;
All the laws of truth perverted ;
Arrogance o'er merit soaring ;
Merit silently deploring.
Ladies gambling night and morning ;
Fools the works of genius scorning ;
Ancient dames for girls mistaken,
Youthful damsels quite forsaken.
Some in luxury delighting ;
More in talking than in fighting ;
Lovers old, and beaux decrepid ;
Lordlings empty and insipid.
Poets, painters, and musicians ;
Lawyers, doctors, politicians :
Pamphlets, newspapers, and odes,
Seeking fame by diff'rent roads.
Gallant souls with empty purses ;
Gen'rals only fit for nurses ;
School-boys, smit with martial spirit,
Taking place of vet'ran merit.
Honest men who can't get places,
Knaves who shew unblushing faces ;
Ruin hasten'd, peace retarded ;
Candour spurn'd, and art rewarded.
Because the pleasure-bird whistles after the hot wires,
Shall the blind horse sing sweeter?
Convenient bird and beast lie lodged to suffer
The supper and knives of a mood.
In the sniffed and poured snow on the tip of the tongue of the year
That clouts the spittle like bubbles with broken rooms,
An enamoured man alone by the twigs of his eyes, two fires,
Camped in the drug-white shower of nerves and food,
Savours the lick of the times through a deadly wood of hair
In a wind that plucked a goose,
Nor ever, as the wild tongue breaks its tombs,
Rounds to look at the red, wagged root.
Because there stands, one story out of the bum city,
That frozen wife whose juices drift like a fixed sea
Secretly in statuary,
Shall I, struck on the hot and rocking street,
Not spin to stare at an old year
Toppling and burning in the muddle of towers and galleries
Like the mauled pictures of boys?
The salt person and blasted place
I furnish with the meat of a fable.
If the dead starve, their stomachs turn to tumble
An upright man in the antipodes
Or spray-based and rock-chested sea:
Over the past table I repeat this present grace.
Some people confuse inspiration with lightning
not me I know it comes from the lungs and air
you breathe it in you breathe it out it circulates
it's the breath of my being the wind across the face
of the waters yes but it's also something that comes
at my command like a turkey club sandwich
with a cup of split pea soup or like tones
from Benny Goodman's clarinet my clarinet
the language that never fails to respond
some people think you need to be pure of heart
not true it comes to the pure and impure alike
the patient and impatient the lovers the onanists
and the virgins you just need to be able to listen
and talk at the same time and you'll hear it like
the long-delayed revelation at the end of the novel
which turns out to be something simple a traumatic
moment that fascinated us more when it was only
a fragment an old song a strange noise a mistake
of hearing a phone that wouldn't stop ringing
When 2014 accelerates its final days, then                              A new 2015 will be on our doors...                                       All of us know what has happened in                                     That 2014's days and nights clearly...                                Everyone saw those passing days like those                            Passing clouds that came over one's head...                          2014 is still here with almost three days left                          For it to expire and to go without any chance                         To return with all of its happiness and its unhappiness...           A year passes slowly and quickly to all of us, but                       We have witnessed a lot of happy and unhappy incidents in it...      What we need only from the new year is a new hope                     That brings us all that we all love and all that we all wish...      We want from that passing year -2014- to leave our stage               Smoothly allowing that new year -2015- to be welcomed by us...       We hope that this new and coming year to bring us                      All that we have missed anytime, anywhere, and everywhere...             We are now buying a new year and we are selling                       A passing year that will be only history to what happened...         A good-bye to 2014 and a happy welcome to that new year 2015            Hoping all people on earth a new, a brilliant, and a wonderful year...                                                                   _________________________________________________ _____________________A happy new year to Raneem and to all her friends.                        _________________________________________________ _____________________
Now that I've typed 2019, I'll concentrate,
to, this New Year's showcase, consecrate …
to the "divine purpose" of entertaining you,
with dozens of poems, or ….at least a few,
chosen from MyPoemList and ELSEWHERE.
If some don't "suit your fancy", I don't care!
I trust readers have "made it" another year,
though one fine PH friend did not, ‘I fear'.
OK! Some know Bri enough to know I lie,
as I don't fear he died, and here's the ‘why':
we ALL must die; it's just a matter of time.
And my friend left poems, ....with fine rhyme.
Poetry ain't (by far) the end-all goal in life.
Better is to live in peace, with little strife.
If in 2019 we all could make strides for that,
to all who DO do it, I'll gladly ‘tip my hat'.
To all people of Earth I send my best wishes.
Heck, I'll send to cats, birds, & to all fishes!
[to snakes, toads, slugs, and flies and such]
[NOT to mosquitoes, who I don't like much]
(December....8th......2018)
< br>
AND Nowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww:
JANUARY 2019 Showcase Poems
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A - …….HERE ARE TWO POEMS PH HAS LISTED AS HAVING A TOPIC OF "JANUARY":
[ The following two ‘topic poems' listed by PH are ones i LIKE; they are now in my list of ‘Favorites'.BUT there are plenty i read which i did not like! ]
1 - A Cold Day In January … by David Crowther
A Cold Day In January
Last year my mother died.
I was not there she died alone.
It was mid-winter when
we buried her. The roads were treacherous
that day, the coldest of the year.
Few people made it to the funeral,
the church was nearly empty.
My son and daughter each
read out a poem
she had written in her younger days.
The priest, who had not known her,
said the prayers. From there we went
by car, the tyres crunching on the ice,
to where the grave had been prepared
in the cemetery that waited
on the outskirts of the town.
The ground was frozen hard.
We stood and listened to the prayers
the priest intoned, tall and upright
there above the open grave while
all the time the icy wind blew
flurries of snow over the graves
and by the groves of evergreens,
So cold, so bleak, so utterly unforgettable
the scene, but what was strange:
I did not mind the cold,
that seeped into my heart and bones.
It seemed somehow appropriate.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2- A January Day … by Nosheen Irfan © 2016
All Rights Reserved
A January Day
I see a timid sun
And overbearing clouds
Playing upon our dreams
The sun wants to give fire
To our extinguishing hopes
But clouds are full of mischief
They overshadow the sun
And our dreams die of cold.
========================================= =======
B -.......If one does a PH "Search" for "transgender", one should find a
short listing of POEMS about ‘transgender persons'‘.
Bri's [Wikipedia's, actually] Notes on Transgender:
"Transgender
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Transgender people have a gender identity or gender expression that differs from their assigned sex.[1][2][3] Transgender people are sometimes called transsexual if they desire medical assistance to transition from one sex to another. Transgender is also an umbrella term: in addition to including people whose gender identity is the opposite of their assigned sex (trans men and trans women) , it may include people who are not exclusively masculine or feminine (people who are genderqueer or non-binary, including bigender, pangender, genderfluid, or agender) .[2][4][5] Other definitions of transgender also include people who belong to a third gender, or else conceptualize transgender people as a third gender.[6][7] Infrequently, the term transgender is defined very broadly to include cross-dressers, [8] regardless of their gender identity."
Here are three of ‘MY FAVORITE POEMS' from PH which i found by doing a
"Search" on PH for "transgender" after reading Valsa's poem which follows:
1 -Transgender … by Valsa George
Transgender
Applied rouge on the cheeks
Tied a glittering necklace round the neck
Putting heavy makeup,
Over the stubble on her shaven chin,
She looked into the mirror
Through its cracks, saw a million bits of her/him
Those images sneering at each other
She felt trapped in a wrong body,
With its contours n' longings mismatched
"Where do I belong"?
"Where do I fit"?
These questions plague her incessant
A rough stone with sharp edges
Too hard to be chipped down
Cast aside by the mason
That can never go into the making of a Cathedral
She walks around in haze
Life seems a twisted maze
Each time she tries to claw her way
She sees only walls that hems her in
Before her, lingers the stygian mist
Phantoms of darkness surround her
The winds of change swiftly blow
Seasons come and go
But she is tied down in her chains
An anomaly of creation
A curse and a taboo
Swallowing stigma and abuse
Each day waking up with a start
Knowing that she is neither a woman nor a man
But a non binary... an accursed TRANSGENDER
Inviting snide looks
And sniggers from onlookers
People call her a eunuch
One divided between the selves
A hapless denizen of an inhospitable world
Disowned even by parents
Though flawed and far from perfect
She is human, one of a kind
And needs to be seen through the eyes of God!
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2 -Clueless Is The Transgender.... by Rm.Shanmugam Chettiar.
Clueless Is The Transgender.
Is the person in dispute
He, she, neither or both?
Genetics, Endocrinologists,
Psychiatrist, Gynecologists,
Radiologists, and Surgeons
Take a look, examine and fail
To concede it male or female.
A female is with female organs
Fully functional, with female
Hormones and 46 xx chromosomes.
Any deficit or any mix
Will upset the gender specific
And one will go clueless.
(31.07.2012)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3 - Transgenders … by Gajanan Mishra
Transgenders
Yes, you go
You are allowed
To sing, to dance
To love,
And to be loved.
Yes, you are allowed
To do whatever you like,
You are recognized.
You are allowed
To come to this
National mainstream,
No problem, no fear,
No shame, no social pressure
No depression, no social stigma.
You are also
A honorable citizen
With all rights
Like any other,
You are Hijras,
You are eunuchs,
You are Kothis,
You are Aravanis,
You are Jogappas,
You are Shiv-Shakatis
And you are also
Known by so many names,
Go, your rights are hereby
Protected irrespective of anything.
Yes, you are recognized
As third gender and
The same status as
Male and female,
You are greeted
As the wonderful creation
Of the Almighty
With a major role to play
In the society under nature,
You are protected from
Molestation, rape and
Any act that is against
Humanity, Yes, you go
And enjoy yourself on this land.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Poets Notes about The Poem:
The Supreme Court of India has recognized in its recent landmark verdict, transgender people as the third gender. Really it is a foundation to meting out a better deal to neglected section of the society. In fact it is a human right issue.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bri's Notes:
Very interesting! ! ! ! ok, a third 'gender' is protected! now protection is declared by law, but of course no gender is guaranteed to be safe/protected at all times from harsh, unfair, or criminal actions.: (
Also:
I get the feeling some people consider only people identified at birth as ‘female' to be trans-gendered when they identify themselves later as ‘male'.This is not the case.Read more to learn more, if you are interested.
Also:
As long as they serve LARGE ice cream cones to me at McDonald's, i don't care if they ‘are' or 'just look like they are'' male or female.The same applies to a president, a police officer,
or anyone else, NOT just a McDonald's employee.And...NO! , the McDonald's corporation did NOT pay me (enough) to mention its name THREE TIMES!
Bri (:
===================================== ==============
C - ……..And here are more poems (added recently to my list on PH of
‘My Favorite Poems' aka MyPoemList) :
1 - …….The Mourning Palace (Auschwitz Is Real) -... by Kurt Kacich
The Mourning Palace (Auschwitz Is Real)
The palace of mourning, the place to meets death's end,
The place, where you wish the nightmare was pretend,
Innocent families fallen victims of the crime called genocide,
Home of the black suited demons committing crimes of homicide,
Yes! Hell on Earth! The torturing of life! Auschwitz is real!
Endless labor, human guinea pigs, the destruction of man,
Horrifying acts, only thing left is the image of what was once called home,
Without family left to see, alone behind barbed wire, all alone,
No food and harsh shelters, o how I wish I could go home!
Am I in hell? Does Satan exist within this tomb? Auschwitz is real!
I open my eyes after seeing deaths of millions, was heaven ever real?
I'm sure it's a fairy tale, a closed book that seemed ever surreal,
Starvation under the freezing sun, malnutrition feeding off zyklon-b,
Can I ever open my eyes to salvation? Or is perdition all I see?
Endless terror within the broken province, a nightmare never ending,
Life inside shattered, by morals controlled by rules forever bending,
Where did my family go? Are they home alone? Perhaps they already passed the pearly gates,
Broken dreams, shattered existence, the clouding of mind, Auschwitz is real!
For many nights I stared into the skies, Hoping God would catch my prayers,
Shivering in a masquerade of madness, I've never been so scared,
Struggling day by day, hoping to get stronger and survive from the pain I bear,
Endless cries of suffering, inflicted by the demons with no regrets,
If I live through this infernal dream, Oh how I will never forget!
Hoping to freeze time, hoping to find a piece of mind,
Wishing to live ahead of my time, or perhaps years I would rewind,
Oh how I wish I could go home, or go to a place of happiness I once known,
Clouded by mist of the rotting souls, It's the mourning palace,
It's the place, once called hell, the establishment of fire and brimstone,
It's the dominion of Auschwitz the place Leviathon ** calls home.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
** Bri's Notes: Leviathan, used in the Bible to denote a sea monster or the Devil, and alternately spelled Leviathon by some.It may also refer to a HUGE or immensely powerful thing, including a government.
AND: Can anyone tell me any information about this author, other than what is found on PH? PH has no biography for him; his poems were all submitted in 2010.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2 - ……Sometimes - by Scooby Do
Sometimes
(The Midnight Letters)
So, I find myself still gazing,
Beyond the looking glass.
Through your eyes I see it all;
From the dark, to the light.
Sometimes I feel like I'm falling.
Sometimes I don't think you care.
Sometimes I wake up late at night,
Only wishing even more that you were there.
So call me,
Beyond the cold,
Beyond the grave.
Death can't even separate us,
Even though it was your blade.
You made the cut.
Sometimes I wish I could go back.
Sometimes I feel like walking away,
And never looking back.
So call me.
Oh, I fear I'll never see the light.
So call me.
To hear your voice is all I need.
So call me.
Even if it was just to show you cared.
So call me.
Girl, the way I see it,
You're not even there.
Oh, well when you wake up wondering,
Where have I gone,
Don't you shed a fucking tear.
Don't you wet those pretty eyes.
You did this to yourself girl,
Despite all I've given you.
Girl, when you see a shooting star,
Go on and make a wish.
I won't be coming back for you,
And there's nothing you can do.
Goodbye, girl.
Don't you wave goodbye.
Goodbye, goodbye.
No, don't you wave goodbye.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bri's Notes:
I corrected two misspellings/typos.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3 -…….You Gasped …..by M.J. Lemon
You Gasped
Keep the chair, the pets,
the artwork, the antiques
and I'll even throw in the garden hose
Just as long as my fate, a rose
In your hands bleeds hope
and crouches underneath
the memories of togetherness
that dispel insecurities, prowess-
that make me infirm.
Sitting, back straight eyes closed
legs crossed hands clasped
you sang, a low voice. You gasped.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
4 - ……..God's Storm - …...by Sk. Nurul Huda
God's Storm
Have you got the Heaven or not?
Do you know all are to fight hot
To secure a place with a doubt lot?
with my blissful bless for you
Brought you where come a very few
Do enjoy this eternal ease life new.
What! are you not happy for your mother?
Look others here not the tears of her
Faith's test is being taken with your father.
Stop; STOP I SAY STOP
I wished it. I planned it and
Did it and will do what I can
Go forward go up go assemble
God stops...
The nine years boy starts stumbling
And saunters into the Heaven.
The boy who died in the terrorist attack saw the God's Wrath
And possibly got healed of the earthly wound he got.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bri's Notes:
My friend's English could use ‘some help' I think, but I'm using his poem because: 1- I like him.2- He offered the poem to me to put into a showcase.3- The poem is pretty good.AND4- I'm the boss here! ! !
But, speaking of "here", i think the following line:
"Look others here not the tears of her" maybe is meant to have "hear", not "here".Maybe.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
5 - ………Ordinary …….. by Bharati Nayak
Ordinary
I am a piece of pebble
Very ordinary
Lying on the road side
You passerby
Perhaps
Took a fancy
Picked me up
Perhaps
You found
Some color and beauty
And so
Took me
With you
Beauty lies
In your eyes
I am just a pebble
Very ordinary
Oh passerby! !
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bri's Notes:
Bharati also offers a poem to me from time to time.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
6 ……...Death Is Nothing At All …...by Henry Scott Holland
Death Is Nothing At All
Death is nothing at all.
I have only slipped away to the next room.
I am I and you are you.
Whatever we were to each other,
That, we still are.
Call me by my old familiar name.
Speak to me in the easy way
which you always used.
Put no difference into your tone.
Wear no forced air of solemnity or sorrow.
Laugh as we always laughed
at the little jokes we enjoyed together.
Play, smile, think of me. Pray for me.
Let my name be ever the household word
that it always was.
Let it be spoken without effect.
Without the trace of a shadow on it.
Life means all that it ever meant.
It is the same that it ever was.
There is absolute unbroken continuity.
Why should I be out of mind
because I am out of sight?
I am but waiting for you.
For an interval.
Somewhere. Very near.
Just around the corner.
All is well.
Nothing is past; nothing is lost. One brief moment and all will be as it was before only better, infinitely happier and forever we will all be one together with Christ.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bri's Notes:
This is the only poem listed on this author's PH site; it has a submission date of 2004.
Though my religious views do not match his, he ‘paints an attractive picture' for ‘believers' to ‘see'. I would like to read more of his poems (on other subjects) .
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
7a - ……..A Silly Poem …….by Mike Milligan
A Silly Poem
Said Hamlet to Ophelia,
I'll draw a sketch of thee,
What kind of pencil shall I use?
2B or not 2B?
Bri's Poet's Notes:
To understand the "play on words" (words from a play, in this case) , Search for "To be or not to be" ….AND "2B pencils".See Hindi translation, below at "7b".
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
7b - ………एक बेतुकी कविता (स्पाइक मिलिगन)
[[ A Silly Poem (by Spike Milligan) ]]
हिंदी रूपांतरण रजनीश मंगा द्वारा
[[Hindi Translation by Rajnish Manga ]]
एक बेतुकी कविता
हेमलेट ने आॅफ़िलिया से कहा,
मैं तुम्हारा एक स्केच बनाना चाहता हूँ,
भला कौन सी पेंसिल ठीक रहेगी?
2बी ऑर नॉट टू बी?
Bri's Notes:
This was the most tedious/time-consuming submission to a showcase i've ever made, i think.: (ha ha ha.
I have trouble enough using English! !
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
8 - ……….Planchette & Page - ….... by Nika McGuin
Planchette & Page
I think books are beautiful
and libraries are magical
perhaps the last drops
of magic that can be touched
by a mundane
drowning in a sea of books
I find I'm no longer human
but the planchette of a ouija board
delighted, I let the spell take over,
let it drag me through aisle after aisle
as it leads me to my partner in destiny
sigh of relief and jump for joy
I've found you
you've called me more likely
as I press your smooth cover to my chest
I can feel
that your ivory pages have so much
to tell and so very much
love to share
as I hold you
tightly wrapped in my arms
I feel so much more alive than usual
as we talk in the quiet language
of strangers who fall in love at first sight
at least in this moment of rapture
I don't feel so alone
we will read each other
teach each other
and play with one another
like the children we are
even if the last page isn't reached
your story has impacted me
for you and I have whispered,
chanted our tales
nightly, in voices quiet
like rustling pages
Bri's Notes:
This makes me (almost) want to be a book! But …..I don't think books can hold ice cream cones.Then again, being held against a young lady's chest might be (almost) as good.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
9 - ……...Bri's Cannibal Friend... [ Bri's Demise; Cannibals; Friend; Food ]
I made a Friend, a Skinny Cannibal.
Now I KNOW why Teachers called me a Dunce.
I went for a Meal at my New Friend's Home.
The Hors D'oeuvres were tasty.I Just Went ONCE.
Poet's Notes:
Befriending a cannibal "cost" me MORE than "an arm and a leg"!
bri
) :
============================================= ===
Well, Readers, I guess I'll stop, since all that's left of me now is bones and hair.It's more than I can handle to be dead AND ‘traveling" to the other side of the United States, from the mild (relatively) weather of coastal northern California, to the cold, wet, icy, windy western foothills of western North Carolina ….for the WINTER! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Thanks go to ALL contributors i.e. those poets whose poems I have borrowed, .....like some art museums borrow paintings and sculptures to place in special displays sometimes.But don't let "your heads get swollen"!
I hope YOU have enjoyed your visit here.Come back near the end of January to see if I've survived to start February's showcase.As usual, admittance should still be free.And thanks to Poem Hunter as well! ! ! (also FREE! !)
Bri Edwards
aka Brian Edward Whitaker
aka "Hey You! ",
:) aka(:
The calendar tells
that spring is still
a wistful distance away.
Do Canada Geese
now winging west
have something different to say?
I was about to be mugged by a man
with a chain so angry he growled
at the Lincoln Center subway station
when out of nowhere appeared a tall
chubby-faced Hasidic Jew with peyot
and a black hat a black coat white shirt
with prayer-shawl fringes showing
we walked together out of the station
and when we got outside and shook hands
I noticed he was blind. Goodbye,
I said, as giddy as a man waking
from an anesthetic in the recovery room,
happy, with a hard-on. The cabs were
on strike on Broadway so beautiful
a necklace of yellow beads
I breathed in the fumes impossibly happy
💓 💏 💓
We married, on your birthday!
In San Francisco City Hall.
There was no family present,
Just you and I~ that's all!
We were two very young, and
very much in love elopers.
Nothing stood in our way, we
were over-comers, not life-copers.
Who drove from frozen, blizzardly
Chicago to our foggy city by the bay.
We chose to live our lives in our own
unique artistic way.
There was no wedding reception,
no gifts, no band.
Just a couple divinely in love, and
Panagiota so proud to wear that gold
wedding band!
Death took you from this life,
when you were still very young.
But her love for you, remains a song,
that everyday is sung.
And this forever young bride cannot forget
that day.
The sun, the Cable Cars, the glorious fog,
as her tears now fall into San Francisco Bay!
Rest in peace, my love!
Panagiota💐
January 29,2020
The old war is over the new one has begun
between drivers and pedestrians on a Friday
in New York light is the variable and structure
the content according to Rodrigo Moynihan's
self-portraits at the Robert Miller Gallery where
the painter is serially pictured holding a canvas,
painting his mirror image, shirtless in summer,
with a nude, etc., it's two o'clock and I'm walking
at top speed from the huddled tourists yearning to be
a mass to Les Halles on Park and 28th for a Salade
Niçoise I've just watched The Singing Detective all
six hours of it and can't get it out of my mind,
the scarecrow that turns into Hitler, the sad-eyed
father wearing a black arm-band, the yellow umbrellas
as Bing Crosby's voice comes out of Michael Gambon's
mouth, "you've got to ac-cent-tchu-ate the positive,
e-lim-inate the negative" advice as sound today
as in 1945 though it also remains true that
the only thing to do with good advice is pass it on
Nothing extends a phone
call more effectively than
saying you're on your way out
but she wants to tell you
the five things she requires
in a man one is intelligence
he must have a brain
also he must be good a term
she likes because it embraces both
the opposite of evil and "good in
bed" and you admire the way
she skillfully maneuvered the
conversation to the sex lives
of jazz fans who live in the Village
and the enduring validity
of the Cyrano story and so
well you wish you didn't have to go
The sky is crumbling into millions of paper dots
the wind blows in my face
so I duck into my favorite barber shop
and listen to Vivaldi and look in the mirror
reflecting the shopfront windows, Broadway
and 104th, and watch the dots blown by the wind
blow into the faces of the walkers outside
& here comes a thin old man swaddled in scarves,
he must be seventy-five, walking slowly,
and in his mind there is a young man dancing,
maybe seventeen years old, on a June evening --
he is that young man, I can tell, watching him walk
The shrink says, "Everything depends
on how many stuffed animals you had
as a boy," and my mother tells me my
father was left-handed and so is my son
and they're both named Joe whose favorite
stuffed animal was a bear called Sweetheart
while I, the sole constant in this dream,
am carrying a little girl who has a gun
in her hand as I climb a brick wall
on the other side is unknown territory
but it has to be better than this chase
down hilly streets where the angel disguised
as a man with red hair drives the wrong way
down a one-way street so he arrives late
at the library where his son is held hostage
he breaks in lifts the boy in his arms and tells
the one kind man he had met that he and
his brother would be saved but the others
who had mocked him would surely die
Today's National Cuddle up Day
To feel warm and what a way!
To me, an idle mind's way
O to while away a whole day,
And there be many a ways
To spend a day in laze,
But a voice from my heart says:
How ‘bout your love's warm embrace!
_________________________________
Happenings | 07.01.2020 |
Topic: love, embrace, humour
J uncture of the year
A t which we like to make
N umerous null promises
U ndoubtedly  they'll take
A bout a week to break
R esolutions gone awry
Y et again next year we'll try
J ust as the old year ends the new begins,
A nd once again the countdown is in motion.
N ow we can say goodbye to last year’s sins,
U plifted hearts set out on this new ocean.
A las, our resolution may soon fail
(R elentless life is so full of commotion)
Y et full of hope we willingly set sail.
from "While Passing Through"/Winter
January morning.
Outside at a distance
in the frigid air
bird on a wire
doesn't move at all.
In January's cold gloom
When shiver we must,
Armed with camera out we go
Forgetting all this winter's frost
because we have a photograph to post.
When sleeps the hedgehog
neath the leaves that Autumn wrought
And log fires just a memory,
And ev'n the squirrel hides his face
Then come o Spring; we're pining here,
To see the snowdrops bright white lace.
26/01/2006
Southampton
Well yesterday was so very grey.
Last night I met my friend and he said
“yes it’s been a grey, blue day”.
Why is it that when it is grey
A blue heart often comes to stay?
Today I am hoping for, blue sky.
Perhaps the blueness from my heart will fly
to join the colour in the sky.
And leave my heart with a different hue.
One that’s full of joy and true.
If only I can remember the colour it was.
Vibrant pink or gentle green or raucous red?
Or was it just a pure clear canvas
on which we write our dreams
and paint a rainbow of emotions?
I don't like January,
It is a cold month
And I enjoy the sun.
In January the sun
Is a pale yellow,
Without an ounce of warmth.
The pale yellow
Of the yolk,
Of a store bought egg.
Is it wrong to prefer
The Orange yolk
Of my own birds
Running strong and free?
And even on warm days
The wind is cold.
In January the wind
Is out of the North.
Not from the southeast
And the Gulf of Mexico.
No, I do not enjoy January.
It is a stark, dreary
Time of year.
Leafless  trees,
And skies the color of denim
Washed a million times over.
There is a knawing
In my gut.
And a sad song in my heart
That longs,
For the rebirth
Of late February.
1/10/2017
Alton, Texas
January cold desolate;
February all dripping wet;
March wind ranges;
April changes;
Birds sing in tune
To flowers of May,
And sunny June
Brings longest day;
In scorched July
The storm-clouds fly
Lightning-torn;
August bears corn,
September fruit;
In rough October
Earth must disrobe her;
Stars fall and shoot
In keen November;
And night is long
And cold is strong
In bleak December.
Walking the streets,
tall buildings they gleam of midday Sunshine concealing the cold.
Frost on my hair,
breath visible with each exhale.
I look around at the city, my home.
It was not some days just before.
Maybe not for weeks at a time,
Courtesy of bipolar tendencies in thought.
See, one minute I'm happy just as I am and where I stand,
feet on the ground, head tall.
Then anxious winds blow in
and I can't help but feel controlled by a force outside of any version of me that I know.
Today I am in control.
Walking past the same houses,
gates that once held pink roses -
the stems still coiling the fence, dead and hard like the skeleton of winter months.
I see the colours in the sky of Sunrise, then again as the sun falls down.
The Crescent Moon glowing against soft evening blue tones,
set high beside the CN tower.
I'm walking all the time,
headphones in and the music makes me feel electric and alive.
Home is a word I never really found a face for
or a space in the external point of view.
It plays on my tongue and sits on my heart,
like maybe I found my souls rhythm belonging where I first began.
Where I never thought it would be.
I put my palms together in prayer on the subway,
sending a wish that this feeling can last for longer than a day, a week, a month.
Loud sirens and lights. Laundry machines.
Scattered ideas holding on to the corners of all that's being seen and heard.
In dreams I see the truth of all that's taken place in my past.
I wonder how I never knew the sweetness in creating something real out of the darkness of the unknown.
The trees and the flowers always told me, and my little creatures that whisper softly as they comfort me on Lonely Nights.
Yesterday, today, and tomorrow -
there is a pretty light of hope.
There are days to say I'm happy.
Nights to say I'm home.
At least for now.
For now...and that's better than I have ever known.
Black ship of night
sailing through the world
& the moon an orange slice
tangy to the teeth
of lovers who lie
under it,
sucking it.
Somewhere there are palm trees;
somewhere the sea
bluely gathers itself up
& lets itself fall again
into green;
somewhere the spangles
of light on the ocean
dazzle the eyes;
but here in the midnight city,
the black ship of night
has docked
for a long, dark stay,
& even the citrus moon
with its pockets of juice
cannot sweeten the dark.
Then the snow begins,
whirling over the Pole,
gathering force over Canada,
sprinkling the Great Lakes with sugar
which drowns in their deep black cups;
it is drawn to the spires of New York
& the flurries come
scampering at first,
lighthearted, crystalline, white,
but finally
sucked into the city
as into a black hole
in space.
The sky is suddenly pink-
pink as flesh: breasts,
babies' bottoms. Night is
day; day is whiter than the desert;
the city stops like a heart;
pigeons dip & veer
& come to rest
under the snow-hatted
watertanks.
January jumps about
in the frying pan
trying to heat
his frozen feet
like a Canadian.
February scuttles under
any dish's lid
and she thinks she's dry because she's
thoroughly well hid
but it still rains all month long
and it always did.
March sits in the bath tub
with the taps turned on.
Hot and cold, cold or not,
Has the Winter gone?
In like a lion, out like a lamb
March on, march on, march on.
April slips about
sometimes indoors
and sometimes out
sometimes sheltering from a little
shower of bright rain
in an empty milk bottle
then dashing out again.
May, she hides nowhere,
nowhere at all,
Proud as a peacock
walking by a wall.
The Maytime O the Maytime,
full of leaf and flower.
The Maytime O the Maytime
is the loveliest of all.
June discards his shirt and
trousers by the stream
and takes the first dip of the year
into a jug of cream.
June is the gay time
of every girl and boy
who run about and sing and shout
in pardonable joy.
July by the sea
sits dabbling with sand
letting it run out of
her rather lazy hand,
and sometimes she sadly
thinks: "As I sit here
ah, more than half the year is gone,
the evanescent year."
August by an emperor
was given his great name.
It is gold and purple
like a Hall of Fame.
(I have known it rather cold
and wettish, all the same.)
September lies in shadows
of the fading summer
hearing, in the distance,
the silver horns of winter
and not very far off
the coming autumn drummer.
October, October
apples on the tree,
the Partridge in the Wood and
the big winds at sea,
the mud beginning in the lane
the berries bright and red
and the big tree wildly
tossing its old head.
November, when the fires
love to burn, and leaves
flit about and fill the air
where the old tree grieves.
November, November
its name is like a star
glittering on many things that were
but few things that are.
Twelfth and last December.
a few weeks away
we hear the silver bells
of the stag and the sleigh
flying from the tundras
far far away
bringing to us all the gift
of our Christmas Day.
Praise the spells and bless the charms,
I found January in my arms.
January is golden, January cloudy,
Gracious, cruel, tender, rowdy;
January soft in flowered languor,
January cold with sudden anger,
Ever changing, ever true -
I love January, I love My Month.
Sometimes at night I hear small birds lament.
Dark notes that seem to second moon's descent.
Cold is the color of a deep regret,
An etude perfected by winterset.
The world was music and it turned us round.
Stirred by the subtle atmospheric sound,
You gently sketched a snowflake on my face
Which shall be mine till light has left this place.
Such solace has the power to outlast time,
To lock a small bird's elegy in rhyme.
Somewhere beyond the January mist,
The magic of our landscape still exists.
Copyright,2008, Sandra Fowler
I
I have discovered that most of
the beauties of travel are due to
the strange hours we keep to see them:
the domes of the Church of
the Paulist Fathers in Weehawken
against a smoky dawn -- the heart stirred --
are beautiful as Saint Peters
approached after years of anticipation.
II
Though the operation was postponed
I saw the tall probationers
in their tan uniforms
hurrying to breakfast!
III
-- and from basement entries
neatly coiffed, middle aged gentlemen
with orderly moustaches and
well-brushed coats
IV
-- and the sun, dipping into the avenues
streaking the tops of
the irregular red houselets,
and
the gay shadows drooping and drooping.
V
-- and a young horse with a green bed-quilt
on his withers shaking his head:
bared teeth and nozzle high in the air!
VI
--and a semicircle of dirt-colored men
about a fire bursting from an old
ash can,
VII
-- and the worn,
blue car rails (like the sky!)
gleaming among the cobbles!
VIII
-- and the rickety ferry-boat "Arden"!
What an object to be called "Arden"
among the great piers, -- on the
ever new river!
"Put me a Touchstone
at the wheel, white gulls, and we'll
follow the ghost of the Half Moon
to the North West Passage -- and through!
(at Albany!) for all that!"
IX
Exquisite brown waves -- long
circlets of silver moving over you!
enough with crumbling ice crusts among you!
The sky has come down to you,
lighter than tiny bubbles, face to
face with you!
His spirit is
a white gull with delicate pink feet
and a snowy breast for you to
hold to your lips delicately!
X
The young doctor is dancing with happiness
in the sparkling wind, alone
at the prow of the ferry! He notices
the curdy barnacles and broken ice crusts
left at the slip's base by the low tide
and thinks of summer and green
shell-crusted ledges among
the emerald eel-grass!
XI
Who knows the Palisades as I do
knows the river breaks east from them
above the city -- but they continue south
-- under the sky -- to bear a crest of
little peering houses that brighten
with dawn behind the moody
water-loving giants of Manhattan.
XII
Long yellow rushes bending
above the white snow patches;
purple and gold ribbon
of the distant wood:
what an angle
you make with each other as
you lie there in contemplation.
XIII
Work hard all your young days
and they'll find you too, some morning
staring up under
your chiffonier at its warped
bass-wood bottom and your soul --
out!
-- among the little sparrows
behind the shutter.
XIV
-- and the flapping flags are at
half-mast for the dead admiral.
XV
All this --
was for you, old woman.
I wanted to write a poem
that you would understand.
For what good is it to me
if you can't understand it?
But you got to try hard --
But --
Well, you know how
the young girls run giggling
on Park Avenue after dark
when they ought to be home in bed?
Well,
that's the way it is with me somehow.
An icy wind whistles past,
Another reminder that it’s January,
A cold, wintry month,
With merciless rain,
That batters down on our heads,
As if trying to crush us.
But you were my summer,
Shining like the sun all year round,
A warm glow to cuddle up to,
A loving friend who stuck by me,
Through the good and the bad.
From when I was very small,
I always told you everything,
From the places I’d been,
To the things I’d achieved,
You were always delighted to hear about it,
But things have changed.
January is cold now,
And each day even colder,
Now that you’re gone,
There’s a hole,
A space where you should be,
Like a piece of a jigsaw puzzle,
But you’re missing.
When I think of you,
It makes me cry,
But it becomes summer again,
Because I can still tell you things,
And I know you’ll listen.
The hole is not completely empty,
Because you’re still there,
You’re still with me,
And I’ll never forget you,
How could I?
I love you to pieces,
And I always will.
It’s summer wherever you are,
And the people there will be glad to see you,
For you will be their summer too,
Just like you were mine.
(For my Nanna who passed away on 31st January 2007)
COLD January comes in Winter's car,
Thick hung with icicles-its heavy wheels
Cumbered with clogging snow, which cracks and peels
With its least motion or concussive jar
'Gainst hard hid ruts, or hewn trees buried far
In the heaped whiteness which awhile conceals
The green and pastoral earth. Old Christmas feels,-
That well-fed and wine-reeling wassailer,-
With all his feasts and fires, feels cold and shivers,
And the red runnel of his indolent blood
Creeps slow and curdled as a northern flood.
And lakes and winter-rills, impetuous rivers
And headlong cataracts, are in silence bound,
Like trammelled tigers lashed to th'unyielding ground
WHILE yet the air is keen, and no bird sings,
Nor any vaguest thrills of heart declare
The presence of the springtime in the air,
Through the raw dawn the shepherd homeward brings
The wee white lambs--the little helpless things--
For shelter, warmth, and comfortable care.
Without his help how hardly lambs would fare--
How hardly live through winter's hours to spring's!
So let me tend and minister apart
To my new hope, which some day you shall know:
It could not live in January wind
Of your disdain; but when within your heart
The bud and bloom of tenderness shall grow,
Amid the flowers my hope may welcome find.
And the world is passing away
along with its desire, but whoever
does, the God abides forever ****
************ (1 John 2: 17)
So does the human life will pass away eventually
To live for certain years if possible, undeniably
such a desire by anyone and appeal to the Lord
because we have still purpose to be in this world
And the life goes with the time as the world turns
time to time, days, months, years, to that pattern
The year start with the month of January
Month goes by until December annually
But I figure out, January means a lot to me
It is in January that I wish, pray, prompt me
to thank my parent, specially my mother, whom
she let me see the first light from her dark womb
Thank thee to God to the life given until now
and let me see this fantastic world somehow
I wish that I have to live 'til time of senescence
Grant it, so I can still enjoy the universe essence
To be in good health physically and mentally
Continuously be with my friends and family
To let me live every 23rd of January, and thereafter
My desire, and thanks as the world goes to its own venture
Ency Bearis
All rights reserved 2014
With numbing cold, biting at my brittle bones
I feel many years giving me a wake up shake
Gripping my coat through the more gripping cold
I feel the world has grown old.
January I cried for my Mom the first time
She probably cried and then smiled for my tears
She surely is yet smiling for my thoughts through these years
For the tears that she shed were at giving me birth
January is the warmest time on earth
The days are short,
The sun a spark,
Hung thin between
The dark and dark.
Fat snowy footsteps
Track the floor.
Milk bottles burst
Outside the door.
The river is
A frozen place
Held still beneath
The trees of lace.
The sky is low.
The wind is gray.
The radiator
Purrs all day.
The great North Wind rattles the trees
And shatters their twigs to splinters
The sparkling quilt of snow knee-deep
Paves the streets of winter
Hilly dams span the roads
With city traffic hindered
Trudging through the sterile cold
Of the dry, crackling winter
A birch tree bends upon a wheel
Is any body injured?
Soft as snow, as hard as steel
A picture, a killer, winter
The sun dies out by four o'clock
The night sky quickly enters
It creeps in with short, breathy steps
That  sombre, freezing winter
Again I reply to the triple winds
running chromatic fifths of derision
outside my window:
Play louder.
You will not succeed. I am
bound more to my sentences
the more you batter at me
to follow you.
And the wind,
as before, fingers perfectly
its derisive music.
After the snow,
cold winds may blow
and people will long for the heat.
But the weather forecast said...
'Skies overcast and a chance of
more snow, rain and sleet'.
So take care as you go ~
and on with the show, walking
safely on your two able feet.
Green grass shows its face once again
Warmth and rain are melting the snow
Small rivers form, rushing to the drain
The trend will be brief, no need to mow
The fog gives witness to the gentle thaw
Careful on left over bits of ice, avoid a fall…
You may discover the force of Newton’s Law
After the introduction you may have no recall
It is a great day to stay inside and observe
The changing landscape where it is dry
The climbing temperatures will soon swerve
With a downward dive, the snow will again fly
This is Michigan, you know we have a motto
If you are tired of the weather, wait a minute
As the eye blinks, Mother Nature will bestow
A change of mind on a roller coaster transit
1/6/08
Happy Birthday mom,
today you would have been,
One-Hundred-Three,
hard to believe, you have
been gone almost ten years.
Mom you use to tell me,
to call you, write you,
said I would, but never did,
over and over you told me,
someday I won't be here.
Mom I know that, I will write,
I will call, but never did.
She always, wrote, always called,
when ever we parted, I would always,
say, if I don't see you again,
I will see you in heaven.
Today mom, wished I could call
and tell you how much love have
I for you, so nice if I could send
a birthday card to you, that is not
to be, so this poem says it all.
Mom growing up, thought
you would be here forever, never
dreaming of losing you,
mom, wished I could be like,
you, so giving, so caring.
You always thought of others,
never of your self, you always,
lifted me up, encouraging me in so
many ways, your faith in me,
amazed me so.
So mother dear, have a happy
birthday in Heaven, love you so,
someday soon, will say happy
birthday to your face.
wrote 1-23-07
On what would have been my mom's 103rd birthday
It freezes- all across a soundless sky
The birds go home. The governing dark's begun:
The steadfast dark that waits not for a sun;
The ultimate dark wherein the race shall die.
Death, with his evil finger to his lip,
Leers in at human windows, turning spy
To learn the country where his rule shall lie
When he assumes perpetual generalship.
The undefeated enemy, the chill
That shall benumb the voiceful earth at last,
Is master of our moment, and has bound
The viewless wind it-self. There is no sound.
It freezes. Every friendly stream is fast.
It freezes; and the graven twigs are still.
-Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose -(2)
It was the time when India was
under The British rule
and servitude for all.
The darkness all around
the lap of mother.
Bleeding and crying for help
for dewy fall.
'A drop of blood', He pronounced to shedfrom all.
Tearing the Shadow of bondage,
he uttered,
The words of love and
compassion for men.
Netaji the beloved of nation,
The saviour of multitude Hapless.
When the sky was red and
the air was Stodgy,
The people were accustomed
to endless disgrace,
Roared He the battle cry to free India,
The great monk the priest of purity,
burst forth.
From Singapore did he inspire the drooping,
The spineless nation to raise the wings of fire.
A great battle was fought under his care,
And India got freedom healing the mother.
Travelling by buses from 2018 to 2019,
From bus to bus memory jumps up and jumps,
Like messages of pop ups we feel,
A past journey we can never forget,
And a new journey we can never deny!
Having journey by bus we have welcomed,
We have now our baby New Year 2019,
A two days old baby has started crawling,
Like this bus crawls in road to start journey,
A fresh memory has crawled in lane of mind.
At this bus terminal of Srikakulam City,
We love to ride this bus in this New Year,
To travel across pretty State of Andhra Pradesh,
We have great hope to visit Rajahmundry City
This bus will take us there soon we feel,
Sacred Godavari River is waiting for us
On the Eastern Bank of this Holy River,
Our New Year Bus will stop for a while,
We shall have our Holy New Year Bath,
Wishing our baby New Year all the best,
We shall travel towards holy city Tirupati!
Travelling across Southeastern Coast,
We shall treasure great memories of time,
Bringing us from Ichchapuram Town,
The bus has traveled much distance,
Passing through amazing Amaravati,
The great capital city of this state,
This bus will take us to Nellore City
Then via Kurnol and Anantapuram
We shall travel to Chittoor by this bus.
Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation
Which is abbreviated as APSRTC is nice
This is headquartered in Vijayawada City,
This has owned trust of people much more,
Giving revenue of more than
Seven hundred and forty million dollars!
This has enriched the state's economy
Empowering more than fifty five thousands
And six hundred employees and more associated,
Since 11 January 1958, APSRTC is in service,
Travelling in Government Bus of Andhra Pradesh,
We get great pleasure in this New Year journey!
This bus is so pretty bus for us and we love,
We love to travel across Southeastern Coast,
A great developed Indian State attracts tourists,
Amaravati, the great capital city will welcome soon,
Our pretty bus will pass through singing bridge!
© Kumarmani Mahakul,02 January 2019. All rights reserved.
Lo! Winter drives his horrors round;
Wide o'er the rugged soil they fly;
In their cold spells each stream is bound,
While at the magic of their eye
Each sign of Spring's gay beauty fades,
And one white wild the aching sight invades.
It is the time for Woe to reign,
And hark! she bids her haggard train,
Pale poverty and want, appear,
Disease, their darling child, draw near,
And, grateful for the favouring hour,
They feel, they seize, they riot, in their power.
But Winter! not to thee alone
Their heart-appalling sway they owe,
For they to war's despotic throne
As tributary subjects bow;
War, who bids trembling Europe gasp,
With wild convulsions in his bloody grasp.
Whence yonder groans? O wretched land!
Poland, from thee, alas! they came,
A despot speaks, and lo! a band,
Blaspheming pure Religion's name,
Bid cold, deliberate murder live,
And death's dread stroke to helpless thousands give.
And see, on Belgia's reeking plain,
Alternate horrors rise and reign!
What mingled sounds affright the ear!
Now, we the song of victory hear,
And now, despair's appalling tone,
And now, of death the deep sepulchral groan.
Freedom! for whose dear sake I'd dare
Each various ill that tortures life,
Though I thy matchless victories share,
While, towering 'midst the bloody strife,
I see thy form sublime, acquire
New power to charm, new beauty to inspire;
I cannot smile; I cannot join
The song of triumph; tho' thy foes,
Celestial power! are also mine;
And tho' I weep for all thy woes,
Yet I thy triumphs too must weep,
And in my tears thy bloody laurels steep.
For who are they that madly bear
Against thy sons the venal spear?
Are they not men?—then say, what power
Can bid my bosom mourn no more;
O where's the fiend-delighting ban
Forbidding MAN to weep for SLAUGHTERED MAN!
E'en Victory, when reflection's voice
Breathes in her ear 'thy brothers die,'
Shall bid her sons no more rejoice,
But change her shouts for pity's sigh:
She will her breast in anguish beat,
And wear the sombrous aspect of defeat.
O Britain! ill-starred land! no more
Must Peace to thee her olive bear,
But on thy once-triumphant shore,
Must we behold the form of fear
Expecting, on the swelling tide,
To see the FOE in proud defiance ride!
Avert the threatening, awful ill;
For fraught with power, and fraught with will
To make thy hardiest veterans die,
A lurking fiend, alas! is nigh,
Who threatens on thy sons to pour
The fatal cloud thou bad'st on GALLIA lower.
Lo! FAMINE spreads her banners wide;[2]
She comes arrayed in horrid state;
But, not to humble Gallia's pride,
And on the rear of victory wait;
She comes the humbled to subdue,
And twine round fading wreaths, death's baleful yew.
She comes to Britain!—at the thought,
Winter! thy scene with horrors fraught,
Fades from my sight—the present ill
Appears to lose its power to kill:
To future scenes pale Fancy flies,
Lifts her dim tearful eyes to heaven, and dies.
Come melancholy Moralizer--come!
Gather with me the dark and wintry wreath;
With me engarland now
The SEPULCHRE OF TIME!
Come Moralizer to the funeral song!
I pour the dirge of the Departed Days,
For well the funeral song
Befits this solemn hour.
But hark! even now the merry bells ring round
With clamorous joy to welcome in this day,
This consecrated day,
To Mirth and Indolence.
Mortal! whilst Fortune with benignant hand
Fills to the brim thy cup of happiness,
Whilst her unclouded sun
Illumes thy summer day,
Canst thou rejoice--rejoice that Time flies fast?
That Night shall shadow soon thy summer sun?
That swift the stream of Years
Rolls to Eternity?
If thou hast wealth to gratify each wish,
If Power be thine, remember what thou art--
Remember thou art Man,
And Death thine heritage!
Hast thou known Love? does Beauty's better sun
Cheer thy fond heart with no capricious smile,
Her eye all eloquence,
Her voice all harmony?
Oh state of happiness! hark how the gale
Moans deep and hollow o'er the leafless grove!
Winter is dark and cold--
Where now the charms of Spring?
Sayst thou that Fancy paints the future scene
In hues too sombrous? that the dark-stol'd Maid
With stern and frowning front
Appals the shuddering soul?
And would'st thou bid me court her faery form
When, as she sports her in some happier mood,
Her many-colour'd robes
Dance varying to the Sun?
Ah vainly does the Pilgrim, whose long road
Leads o'er the barren mountain's storm-vext height,
With anxious gaze survey
The fruitful far-off vale.
Oh there are those who love the pensive song
To whom all sounds of Mirth are dissonant!
There are who at this hour
Will love to contemplate!
For hopeless Sorrow hails the lapse of Time,
Rejoicing when the fading orb of day
Is sunk again in night,
That one day more is gone.
And he who bears Affliction's heavy load
With patient piety, well pleas'd he knows
The World a pilgrimage,
The Grave the inn of rest.
On a wonderful cold day in January
A beautiful full term baby girl was born.
She was full of promise, purpose and destiny.
Her parents did not know the reason behind it all.
Dad decided to keep it moving.
Mom at first tried everything she possibly can
to rid herself of this child but to no avail.
Promise wouldn't allow her.
Purpose refused her destructive actions.
Destiny kept protecting.
This innocent child came through in spite of rejection.
She was surrounded by heavenly angels the moment of conception.
On a wonderful cold day in January
A beautiful baby girl was born.
Why wasn't she born in December or February or March...
January is the first month of the year.
Which identifies her as a born leader.
All that God declared over her life is bound to come to fruition.
God sent His Word and it does not come back to Him void.
It goes forth and accomplish that which He sent it for.
God is not man that He should lie. He is God.
If He said it shall He not do it?
Without a doubt.
The angels promised to stay on guard.
And that they did.
Mom realized that I was her little miracle.
When I look back I realize she made a conscious
Decision to love, protect, and direct.
And that she did.
All through life she has been my greatest fan.
She's been my advisor.
She's been my close friend.
If I had a chance to choose a mother
I would choose her again and again.
There's so much I plan to do for her
as a token of my love and appreciation.
The little things I've done for her sometimes
cause her to say.. 'Thank God He kept you safe
within my womb.' I'm thankful too.
I'm thankful she's my mom.
One day in January I was born
held and nourished by a lovely soul.
I am because she is.
Through life's dull road, so dim and dirty,
I have dragg'd to three-and-thirty.
What have these years left to me?
Nothing--except thirty-three.
On our China anniversary
Love goes on under the sun;
From Paper to Crystal that has ended
Another new one has just begun.
Twenty years of living together
Is not a walk in the park;
At times the days are sunny,
Sometimes the clouds are dark.
But by God's loving hand
We've ventured into the rough sea;
Able to climb the highest hill,
Striving hard toward victory.
We've stood against all odds,
Braving the wind of changes;
We've remained firm and steadfast,
Making all the right choices.
As long as we have each other,
We do hope for the Silver's dawn;
Praying not only for the Gold
But also for the dazzling Diamond.
The pages of the next chapter
Are willed by the Father's hand;
A new episode shall be written
Till we reach the promised land.
Our love for one another
Shall achieve the higher degree;
It will grow all the more
On our China anniversary.
Let the Nile cloak his head in the clouds, and defy
The researches of science and time;
Let the Niger escape the keen traveller's eye,
By plunging or changing his clime.
Columbus! not so shall thy boundless domain
Defraud thy brave sons of their right;
Streams, midlands, and shorelands elude us in vain.
We shall drag their dark regions to light.
Look down, sainted sage, from thy synod of Gods;
See, inspired by thy venturous soul,
Mackenzie roll northward his earth-draining floods,
And surge the broad waves to the pole.
With the same soaring genius thy Lewis ascends,
And, seizing the car of the sun,
O'er the sky-propping hills and high waters he bends,
And gives the proud earth a new zone.
Potowmak, Ohio, Missouri had felt
Half her globe in their cincture comprest;
His long curving course has completed the belt,
And tamed the last tide of the west.
Then hear the loud voice of the nation proclaim,
And all ages resound the decree:
Let our occident stream bear the young hero's name,
Who taught him his path to the sea.
These four brother floods, like a garland of flowers,
Shall entwine all our states in a band
Conform and confederate their wide-spreading powers,
And their wealth and their wisdom expand.
From Darien to Davis one garden shall bloom,
Where war's weary banners are furl'd,
And the far scenting breezes that waft its perfume,
Shall settle the storms of the world.
Then hear the loud voice of the nation proclaim
And all ages resound the decree:
Let our occident stream bear the young hero's name,
Who taught him his path to the sea.
If I sit here long enough,
by this double window framing
a partial view of a stark winter day,
I will eventually see a field of
yellow and red flowers, a pond
reflecting the sky's blue and
the sky itself with wisps of clouds
imperceptibly moving out of the frame,
leaving behind only pieces of spring.
But winter is the master now, and it
imperiously summons me to acknowledge
its reign and not succumb to pale
mental images. Oh, this season is gracious!
It spreads its spell across white fields
punctuated by evergreen groves and frozen
ponds. And perhaps its dreams inhabit
things in hibernation, and grants them
a cold solace for the duration
of ice and snow. And the silence
will prevail until the first crack of spring.
It spreads its cold charm across white
diels
It's not the case, though some might wish it so
Who from a window watch the blizzard blow
White riot through their branches vague and stark,
That they keep snug beneath their pelted bark.
They take affliction in until it jells
To crystal ice between their frozen cells,
And each of them is inwardly a vault
Of jewels rigorous and free of fault,
Unglimpsed until in May it gently bears
A sudden crop of green-pronged solitaires.
Our lucky cat
Tom is she that
Gets a great chance
At the night
In thirty first
Of January
In two thousand
And eighteen
To observe
Four things together;
Which may happen
After every
Hundred and
Fifty two years,
These things are:
The first one-
The blue moon,
The second one-
The super moon,
The third one-
The blood red moon
And the fourth one is
The lunar eclipse;
So, we greet her in
Anacreontic
Verse with lots of
Roses and flowers,
Cartoon bears poster
Love marked sticker
Sings and dances, too.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │31 January,2018
On the 5th of January,!878, three of the Irish political prisoners, who had been confined since!866, were set at liberty. The released men were received by their fellow-countrymen in London. 'They are well,' said the report, ' but they look prematurely old.'
THEY are free at last! They can face the sun;
Their hearts now throb with the world's pulsation;
Their prisons are open—their night is done;
'Tis England's mercy and reparation!
The years of their doom have slowly sped—
Their limbs are withered—their ties are riven;
Their children are scattered, their friends are dead—
But the prisons are open—the 'crime' forgiven.
God! what a threshold they stand upon:
The world has passed on while they were buried;
In the glare of the sun they walk alone
On the grass-grown track where the crowd has hurried.
Haggard and broken and seared with pain,
They seek the remembered friends and places:
Men shuddering turn, and gaze again
At the deep-drawn lines on their altered faces.
What do they read on the pallid page?
What is the tale of these woeful letters?
A lesson as old as their country's age,
Of a love that is stronger than stripes and fetters.
In the blood of the slain some dip their blade,
And swear by the stain the foe to follow:
But a deadlier oath might here be made,
On the wasted bodies and faces hollow.
Irishmen! You who have kept the peace—
Look on these forms diseased and broken:
Believe, if you can, that their late release,
When their lives are sapped, is a good-will token.
Their hearts are the bait on England's hook;
For this are they dragged from her hopeless prison;
She reads her doom in the Nation's book—
She fears the day that has darkly risen;
She reaches her hand for Ireland's aid—
Ireland, scourged, contemned, derided;
She begs from the beggar her hate has made;
She seeks for the strength her guile divided.
She offers a bribe—ah, God above!
Behold the price of the desecration:
The hearts she has tortured for Irish love
She brings as a bribe to the Irish nation!
O, blind and cruel! She fills her cup
With conquest and pride, till its red wine splashes:
But shrieks at the draught as she drinks it up—
Her wine has been turned to blood and ashes.
We know her—our Sister! Come on the storm!
God send it soon and sudden upon her:
The race she has shattered and sought to deform
Shall laugh as she drinks the black dishonor.
At this ancient, battered headland my gaze
Is seaward and merges with the cold blue
Tainted moments of surreal mid winter.
The soft, unbroken vowels of the tide
Are enclosed within the wind's gutturals.
Gulls stutter their syllables of longing.
And I reminisce about time spent here
In wilder days of youth; when summer was
Still green and gold promise and we enjoyed
A certain kind of freedom; that is now
Lost forever deep within the debris
Of these myopic, insubstantial times.
I'll try to recall this freedom clearly,
Before my ageing mind turns foggy grey.
January sings again for me
and  for a year dead gone
on the wheels
of a northern curse.
January sings,
sings again for me
and for autumn flowers
January 30,  2010
Swami Vivekananda
(On 12th January,2019)
From coldness of mind to warmth
Of Being,
From idleness to ever inspired joy,
From unconsciousness to consciousness,
From Stupor of mind to superconscious self,
From selfishness to selfless service,
Let us be led.
O supreme Mind, The Soul of our souls,
O our Beloved the great,
Swami Vivekananda, let us be awakened.
Let us be centered to look beyond the fetters.
The darkness is deep all around,
The coolness is too much to bear with,
Let your speech declare every heart,
The dove of peace dawn to suffering humanity.
O knowledge divine, the sky of consciousness let you be remembered as Glimpse Eternal.
Walking the way is tiresome without knowing your message of love,
Let you shine again in the morning of our Minds,
In the Night shine as pole star and in the dawn The morning Star,
Let our thoughts be raised to height to touch the Sky,
Let our sleep be broken eternally,
Our consciousness wide open.
Let death be dead to have life of sacrifice,
To live fully totally in the moment,
Let all the palls be shredded from our minds to have a fresh look of The Sunshine,
Let us be centered enough to walk on the way shown by you.
****************
It is January 1997...
And so far...
It has been far from Heaven
The skies has been dark shades of blue and gray...
As I bend my knees to pray...
The weather has been cold and wet...
As I sat in my room and wept...
As I wish to witness to see a
Heaven sent angel...
I tried to remain stable...
I strolled through the peaceful cemetery...
Searching for sanctuary.
As I perched my depressed infested body...
Against an ice cold tombstone...
Covered with time and age...
I see my life on the darkest stage.
I only wish the unhappiness away...
I only long to write the next play...
Of life that will bring hope.
And colorful dreams in cinemascope...
The moon is wounded
And wintry skies are broken:
This desolate night.
I
HAIL, orient Conqueror of gloomy Night!
Thou that canst shed the bliss of gratitude
On hearts howe'er insensible or rude;
Whether thy punctual visitations smite
The haughty towers where monarchs dwell;
Or thou, impartial Sun, with presence bright
Cheer'st the low threshold of the peasant's cell!
Not unrejoiced I see thee climb the sky
In naked splendour, clear from mist or haze,
Or cloud approaching to divert the rays,
Which even in deepest winter testify
Thy power and majesty,
Dazzling the vision that presumes to gaze.
--Well does thine aspect usher in this Day;
As aptly suits therewith that modest pace
Submitted to the chains
That bind thee to the path which God ordains
That thou shalt trace,
Till, with the heavens and earth, thou pass away!
Nor less, the stillness of these frosty plains,
Their utter stillness, and the silent grace
Of yon ethereal summits white with snow,
(Whose tranquil pomp and spotless purity
Report of storms gone by
To us who tread below)
Do with the service of this Day accord.
--Divinest Object which the uplifted eye
Of mortal man is suffered to behold;
Thou, who upon those snow-clad Heights has poured
Meek lustre, nor forget'st the humble Vale;
Thou who dost warm Earth's universal mould,
And for thy bounty wert not unadored
By pious men of old;
Once more, heart-cheering Sun, I bid thee hail!
Bright be thy course to-day, let not this promise fail!
II
'Mid the deep quiet of this morning hour,
All nature seems to hear me while I speak,
By feelings urged that do not vainly seek
Apt language, ready as the tuneful notes
That stream in blithe succession from the throats
Of birds, in leafy bower,
Warbling a farewell to a vernal shower.
--There is a radiant though a short-lived flame,
That burns for Poets in the dawning east;
And oft my soul hath kindled at the same,
When the captivity of sleep had ceased;
But He who fixed immoveably the frame
Of the round world, and built, by laws as strong,
A solid refuge for distress--
The towers of righteousness;
He knows that from a holier altar came
The quickening spark of this day's sacrifice;
Knows that the source is nobler whence doth rise
The current of this matin song;
That deeper far it lies
Than aught dependent on the fickle skies.
III
Have we not conquered?--by the vengeful sword?
Ah no, by dint of Magnanimity;
That curbed the baser passions, and left free
A loyal band to follow their liege Lord
Clear-sighted Honour, and his staid Compeers,
Along a track of most unnatural years;
In execution of heroic deeds
Whose memory, spotless as the crystal beads
Of morning dew upon the untrodden meads,
Shall live enrolled above the starry spheres.
He, who in concert with an earthly string
Of Britain's acts would sing,
He with enraptured voice will tell
Of One whose spirit no reverse could quell;
Of One that 'mid the failing never failed--
Who paints how Britain struggled and prevailed
Shall represent her labouring with an eye
Of circumspect humanity;
Shall show her clothed with strength and skill,
All martial duties to fulfil;
Firm as a rock in stationary fight;
In motion rapid as the lightning's gleam;
Fierce as a flood-gate bursting at midnight
To rouse the wicked from their giddy dream--
Woe, woe to all that face her in the field!
Appalled she may not be, and cannot yield.
IV
And thus is 'missed' the sole true glory
That can belong to human story!
At which they only shall arrive
Who through the abyss of weakness dive.
The very humblest are too proud of heart;
And one brief day is rightly set apart
For Him who lifteth up and layeth low;
For that Almighty God to whom we owe,
Say not that we have vanquished--but that we survive.
V
How dreadful the dominion of the impure!
Why should the Song be tardy to proclaim
That less than power unbounded could not tame
That soul of Evil--which, from hell let loose,
Had filled the astonished world with such abuse
As boundless patience only could endure?
--Wide-wasted regions--cities wrapt in flame--
Who sees, may lift a streaming eye
To Heaven;--who never saw, may heave a sigh;
But the foundation of our nature shakes,
And with an infinite pain the spirit aches,
When desolated countries, towns on fire,
Are but the avowed attire
Of warfare waged with desperate mind
Against the life of virtue in mankind;
Assaulting without ruth
The citadels of truth;
While the fair gardens of civility,
By ignorance defaced,
By violence laid waste,
Perish without reprieve for flower or tree!
VI
A crouching purpose--a distracted will--
Opposed to hopes that battened upon scorn,
And to desires whose ever-waxing horn
Not all the light of earthly power could fill;
Opposed to dark, deep plots of patient skill,
And to celerities of lawless force;
Which, spurning God, had flung away remorse--
What could they gain but shadows of redress?
--So bad proceeded propagating worse;
And discipline was passion's dire excess.
Widens the fatal web, its lines extend,
And deadlier poisons in the chalice blend.
When will your trials teach you to be wise?
--O prostrate Lands, consult your agonies!
VII
No more--the guilt is banished,
And, with the guilt, the shame is fled;
And, with the guilt and shame, the Woe hath vanished,
Shaking the dust and ashes from her head!
--No more--these lingerings of distress
Sully the limpid stream of thankfulness.
What robe can Gratitude employ
So seemly as the radiant vest of Joy?
What steps so suitable as those that move
In prompt obedience to spontaneous measures
Of glory, and felicity, and love,
Surrendering the whole heart to sacred pleasures?
VIII
O Britain! dearer far than life is dear,
If one there be
Of all thy progeny
Who can forget thy prowess, never more
Be that ungrateful Son allowed to hear
Thy green leaves rustle or thy torrents roar.
As springs the lion from his den,
As from a forest-brake
Upstarts a glistering snake,
The bold Arch-despot re-appeared;--again
Wide Europe heaves, impatient to be cast,
With all her armed Powers,
On that offensive soil, like waves upon a thousand shores.
The trumpet blew a universal blast!
But Thou art foremost in the field:--there stand:
Receive the triumph destined to thy hand!
All States have glorified themselves;--their claims
Are weighed by Providence, in balance even;
And now, in preference to the mightiest names,
To Thee the exterminating sword is given.
Dread mark of approbation, justly gained!
Exalted office, worthily sustained!
IX
Preserve, O Lord! within our hearts
The memory of thy favour,
That else insensibly departs,
And loses its sweet savour!
Lodge it within us!--as the power of light
Lives inexhaustibly in precious gems,
Fixed on the front of Eastern diadems,
So shine our thankfulness for ever bright!
What offering, what transcendent monument
Shall our sincerity to Thee present?
--Not work of hands; but trophies that may reach
To highest Heaven--the labour of the Soul;
That builds, as thy unerring precepts teach,
Upon the internal conquests made by each,
Her hope of lasting glory for the whole.
Yet will not heaven disown nor earth gainsay
The outward service of this day;
Whether the worshippers entreat
Forgiveness from God's mercy-seat;
Or thanks and praises to His throne ascend
That He has brought our warfare to an end,
And that we need no second victory!--
Ha! what a ghastly sight for man to see;
And to the heavenly saints in peace who dwell,
For a brief moment, terrible;
But, to thy sovereign penetration, fair,
Before whom all things are, that were,
All judgments that have been, or e'er shall be;
Links in the chain of thy tranquillity!
Along the bosom of this favoured Nation,
Breathe Thou, this day, a vital undulation!
Let all who do this land inherit
Be conscious of thy moving spirit!
Oh, 'tis a goodly Ordinance,--the sight,
Though sprung from bleeding war, is one of pure delight;
Bless Thou the hour, or ere the hour arrive,
When a whole people shall kneel down in prayer,
And, at one moment, in one rapture, strive
With lip and heart to tell their gratitude
For thy protecting care,
Their solemn joy--praising the Eternal Lord
For tyranny subdued,
And for the sway of equity renewed,
For liberty confirmed, and peace restored!
X
But hark--the summons!--down the placid lake
Floats the soft cadence of the church-tower bells;
Bright shines the Sun, as if his beams would wake
The tender insects sleeping in their cells;
Bright shines the Sun--and not a breeze to shake
The drops that tip the melting icicles.
'O, enter now his temple gate!'
Inviting words--perchance already flung
(As the crowd press devoutly down the aisle
Of some old Minster's venerable pile)
From voices into zealous passion stung,
While the tubed engine feels the inspiring blast,
And has begun--its clouds of sound to cast
Forth towards empyreal Heaven,
As if the fretted roof were riven.
'Us', humbler ceremonies now await;
But in the bosom, with devout respect
The banner of our joy we will erect,
And strength of love our souls shall elevate:
For to a few collected in his name,
Their heavenly Father will incline an ear
Gracious to service hallowed by its aim;--
Awake! the majesty of God revere!
Go--and with foreheads meekly bowed
Present your prayers--go--and rejoice aloud--
The Holy One will hear!
And what, 'mid silence deep, with faith sincere,
Ye, in your low and undisturbed estate,
Shall simply feel and purely meditate--
Of warnings--from the unprecedented might,
Which, in our time, the impious have disclosed;
And of more arduous duties thence imposed
Upon the future advocates of right;
Of mysteries revealed,
And judgments unrepealed,
Of earthly revolution,
And final retribution,--
To his omniscience will appear
An offering not unworthy to find place,
On this high DAY of THANKS, before the
Throne of Grace!
Time angles itself across Space,
shedding days, weeks, months
and yet another year has reached its apogee,
poised for a midnight moment
between then and now, and then -
collapsing in upon itself and emerging
after the tiniest unit of duration
as the New Year Interplay of Time and Space.
The residents of the house are only
human: Being among them day and night
is like turning the pages of a novel already
read and taken to heart. Where is that
passage that made a crease in the sky
through which the delights of heaven
shone for even the unworthiest person
to grasp before the vision faded and the page turned?
Oh, that book is shut! We have lost
the key that once opened it to the light.
Now a double darkness encloses it,
and we must seek elsewhere for access
to the light. We must be patient for
some opening that heralds the source of light.
Meanwhile, on what floor are the sick people
lodged? I brought the panacea they requested.
Perhaps it is as my sister tells me,
I have companied too long with grief,
sharing his frugal fare with stubborn resolve.
Shall I then stride into a larger arena?
Shall I identify the wound common to all,
and seek the remedy in the field
of endeavor rather than sink into
visionary solitude, my usual haunt?
What kind of life have I been living? Is it
one of Justice? Do I at every moment
affirm Equality as principle and practice?
Do I strive to keep body and soul together
for a purpose that pulls me into Humanity?
King Lear realized too late he had squandered
his country's wealth, leaving none for
his subjects, poor naked wretches. WE HAVE THE TIME!
At the end of six weeks I did spy
A dawning of light in the southern sky
Though it didn't last long
It started a song
As a blowing sound passed by
For its warming wave
Caused the artic to cave
And move out to the world around
As the north begins to warm
The cold fronts start to form
In a move to the south
From the foul bear's mouth
It's January's  frontal storm
The arctic air glides
‘til the bear subsides
And moderation in temperatures abound
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather
Withering and keen the winter comes
While comfort flyes to close shut rooms
And sees the snow in feathers pass
Winnowing by the window glass
And unfelt tempests howl and beat
Above his head in corner seat
And musing oer the changing scene
Farmers behind the tavern screen
Sit-or wi elbow idly prest
On hob reclines the corners guest
Reading the news to mark again
The bankrupt lists or price of grain
Or old moores anual prophecys
That many a theme for talk supplys
Whose almanacks thumbd pages swarm
Wi frost and snow and many a storm
And wisdom gossipd from the stars
Of polities and bloody wars
He shakes his head and still proceeds
Neer doubting once of what he reads
All wonders are wi faith supplyd
Bible at once and weather guide
Puffing the while his red tipt pipe
Dreaming oer troubles nearly ripe
Yet not quite lost in profits way
He'll turn to next years harvest day
And winters leisure to regale
Hopes better times and sips his ale
While labour still pursues his way
And braves the tempest as he may
The thresher first thro darkness deep
Awakes the mornings winter sleep
Scaring the owlet from her prey
Long before she dreams of day
That blinks above head on the snow
Watching the mice that squeaks below
And foddering boys sojourn again
By ryhme hung hedge and frozen plain
Shuffling thro the sinking snows
Blowing his fingers as he goes
To where the stock in bellowings hoarse
Call for their meals in dreary close
And print full many a hungry track
Round circling hedge that guards the stack
Wi higgling tug he cuts the hay
And bares the forkfull loads away
And morn and evening daily throws
The little heaps upon the snows
The shepherd too in great coat wrapt
And straw bands round his stockings lapt
Wi plodding dog that sheltering steals
To shun the wind behind his heels
Takes rough and smooth the winter weather
And paces thro the snow together
While in the fields the lonly plough
Enjoys its frozen sabbath now
And horses too pass time away
In leisures hungry holiday
Rubbing and lunging round the yard
Dreaming no doubt of summer sward
As near wi idle pace they draw
To brouze the upheapd cribs of straw
While whining hogs wi hungry roar
Crowd around the kitchen door
Or when their scanty meal is done
Creep in the straw the cold to shun
And old hens scratting all the day
Seeks curnels chance may throw away
Pausing to pick the seed and grain
Then dusting up the chaff again
While in the barn holes hid from view
The cats their patient watch pursue
For birds which want in flocks will draw
From woods and fields to pick the straw
The soodling boy that saunters round
The yard on homward dutys bound
Now fills the troughs for noisy hogs
Oft asking aid from barking dogs
That tuggles at each flopping ear
Of such as scramble on too near
Or circld round wi thirsty stock
That for his swinging labours flock
At clanking pump his station takes
Half hid in mist their breathing makes
Or at the pond before the door
Which every night leaves frozen oer
Wi heavy beetle1 splinters round
The glossy ice wi jarring sound
While huddling geese as half asleep
Doth round the imprisond water creep
Silent and sad to wait his aid
And soon as ere a hole is made
They din his ears wi pleasures cry
And hiss at all that ventures nigh
Splashing wi jealous joys & vain
Their fill ere it be froze again
And woodstack climbs at maids desire
Throwing down faggots for the fire
Where stealing time he often stands
To warm his half froze tingling hands
The schoolboy still in dithering joys
Pastime in leisure hours employs
And be the weather as it may
Is never at a loss for play
Rolling up giant heaps of snow
As noontide frets its little thaw
Making rude things of various names
Snow men or aught their fancy frames
Till numbd wi cold they quake away
And join at hotter sports to play
Kicking wi many a flying bound
The football oer the frozen ground
Or seeking bright glib ice to play
To sailing slide the hours away
As smooth and quick as shadows run
When clouds in autumn pass the sun
Some hurrying rambles eager take
To skait upon the meadow lake
Scaring the snipe from her retreat
From shelving banks unfrozen seat
Or running brook where icy spars
Which the pale sunlight specks wi stars
Shoots crizzling oer the restless tide
To many a likness petrified
Where fancy often stoops to pore
And turns again to wonder more
The more hen too wi fear opprest
Starts from her reedy shelterd nest
Bustling to get from foes away
And scarcly flies more fast then they
Skaiting along wi curving springs
Wi arms spread out like herons wings
They race away for pleasures sake
A hunters speed along the lake
And oft neath trees where ice is thin
Meet narrow scapes from breaking in
Again the robin waxes tame
And ventures pitys crumbs to claim
Picking the trifles off the snow
Which dames on purpose daily throw
And perching on the window sill
Where memory recolecting still
Knows the last winters broken pane
And there he hops and peeps again
The clouds of starnels dailey fly
Blackening thro the evening sky
To whittleseas1 reed wooded mere
And ozier holts by rivers near
And many a mingld swathy crowd
Rook crow and jackdaw noising loud
Fly too and fro to dreary fen
Dull winters weary flight agen
Flopping on heavy wings away
As soon as morning wakens grey
And when the sun sets round and red
Returns to naked woods to bed
Wood pigeons too in flocks appear
By hunger tamd from timid fear
They mid the sheep unstartld steal
And share wi them a scanty meal
Picking the green leaves want bestows
Of turnips sprouting thro the snows
The ickles from the cottage eaves
Which cold nights freakish labour leaves
Fret in the sun a partial thaw
Pattring on the pitted snow
But soon as ere hes out of sight
They eke afresh their tails at night
The sun soon creepeth out of sight
Behind the woods-and running night
Makes haste to shut the days dull eye
And grizzles oer the chilly sky
Dark deep and thick by day forsook
As cottage chimneys sooty nook
While maidens fresh as summer roses
Joining from the distant closes
Haste home wi yokes and swinging pail
And thresher too sets by his flail
And leaves the mice at peace agen
To fill their holes wi stolen grain
And owlets glad his toils are oer
Swoops by him as he shuts the door
The shepherd seeks his cottage warm
And tucks his hook beneath his arm
And weary in the cold to roam
Scenting the track that leadeth home
His dog wi swifter pace proceeds
And barks to urge his masters speed
Then turns and looks him in the face
And trotts before Wi mending pace
Till out of whistle from the swain
He sits him down and barks again
Anxious to greet the opend door
And meet the cottage fire once more
The robin that wi nimble eye
Glegs round a danger to espy
Now pops from out the opend door
From crumbs half left upon the floor
Nor wipes his bill on perching chair
Nor stays to clean a feather there
Scard at the cat that sliveth in
A chance from evenings glooms to win
To jump on chairs or tables nigh
Seeking what plunder may supply
The childerns litterd scraps to thieve
Or aught that negligence may leave
Creeping when huswives cease to watch
Or dairey doors are off the latch
On cheese or butter to regale
Or new milk reeking in .the pale
The hedger now in leathern coat
From woodland wilds and fields remote
After a journey far and slow
Knocks from his shoes the caking snow
And opes the welcome creaking door
Throwing his faggot on the floor
And at his listening wifes desire
To eke afresh the blazing fire
Wi sharp bill cuts the hazel bands
Then sets him down to warm his hands
And tell in labours happy way
His story of the passing day
While as the warm blaze cracks and gleams
The supper reeks in savoury steams
Or keetle simmers merrily
And tinkling cups are set for tea
Thus doth the winters dreary day
From morn to evening wear away.
Book One: The Journey Begins
(This is a fictional poetic series and short story about events that never take place and about people that have never existed. Any representation of an actual event or person is purely coincidental in nature.)
Mission One: Take no prisoners
I am picked for my very first covert mission.
I am young, anxious and ready for a good fight.
Because of the constant training, I am in top condition.
I am an U.S. Army Ranger trained to kill by the dark moonlight.
The first time I am called to the captain's tent.
He thoroughly detailed the assignments I must do.
The captain informed me where I will be sent.
He ordered me not to take any prisoners, too.
Our experienced team meets on the helicopter pad.
The three-man team was a sergeant, a corporal, and I
Between us, not a word was even said,
As the helicopter lifted off into the midnight sky.
Silently, we land three miles behind enemy lines.
Grabbing our gear, we continue along the way.
We carefully crossed four rows of hidden land mines.
Soon, we spot our target a half a mile away.
I am told to secure the enemy guards in the shack.
When I am finished then signal all clear to the rest.
Cautiously, I take out my knife from my rucksack.
Like a snake, I crawled across the ground on my chest.
Finally, upon the unpainted guard shack, I continued to creep.
Safely, I am hidden beneath the shadows of the dark moonlight.
Taken by surprise, I stabbed the first one while he took a leak.
The other man, I killed inside the shack without much of a fight.
I signaled to the team and they approached the shack from behind.
The shack is now secure; therefore, their job now has just begun.
To the corporal I say, 'Leave me alone and I will be fine.'
He runs out the door to vomit as I picked up the dead man's gun.
This is just the first story of the many kills I have made.
This is just a vague look at the things I have done.
One night in the jungle somewhere, on the shack floor, my report said,
The U.S. Army Ranger left the body of an old man and his son.
(Copyright 2007)
Book One: The Journey Begins
(This is a fictional poetic series and short story about events that never take place and about people that have never existed. Any representation of an actual event or person is purely coincidental in nature.)
Mission Two: A bullet traveling silently through the air
The next assignment I was given was a very easy mission.
My first mission proved that I was good at killing the enemy.
I did what I was told and my job was very expertly done.
The Sergeant Major appreciated my natural killing ability.
From the captain, I received a top-secret mission folder.
He instructs me not read it until I boarded the gray plane.
Later that day, I picked up my rifle and placed my gear over my shoulder.
Again, I am off to kill the enemy by putting a bullet in his brain.
Skillfully, my camouflaged body jumped out the giant metal gray plane.
Quickly, my silhouette floated out in the dark night sky.
I glide silently in the air and safely land on the jungle floor.
In spite of the danger, the U. S. Army Ranger always will survive.
I took my time making sure to camouflage myself from head to toe.
Carefully, I recheck the picture of the marked enemy inside the folder.
Deep into the dangerous unknown jungle, I voluntarily go.
I travel alone with a 30-06 sniper rifle slung over my shoulder.
The enemy camp was only a short five-click hike away.
The large house stood out in the middle of the wheat field.
The night sky had just started brighten into the beginning of day.
I must retreat and wait until the returning nightfall to make my kill.
Later after the night returned, I climbed high up in a magnolia tree.
Patiently less than a mile away, I waited as the moonlight started shine.
Through the night scope, inside the whole house I could completely see.
From my perch in the tree, my target was not very hard to find.
Carefully, I scoped in on the marked enemy sitting in a chair in the hall.
A very pretty woman was gently brushing the wavy brown locks of his hair.
She bends to get another comb; suddenly, his brain splattered against the wall.
Another enemy killed by a bullet traveling silently through the air.
At last, another mission ends and has successfully been done.
The dead marked enemy now slumped slowly in his chair.
Again, I am a man that must quickly but quietly run.
The U. S. Army Ranger must run like hell away from there.
(Copyright 2007)
Book One: The Journey Begins
(This is a fictional poetic series and short story about events that never take place and about people that have never existed. Any representation of an actual event or person is purely coincidental in nature.)
Mission Three: An enemy to erase
Mission Three: An enemy to erase
Early this morning, I awoke from the comforts of my bed.
I immediately gathered the gear I will need for today.
By tomorrow night, another marked enemy will be dead.
At least that is what the words on my covert assignment say.
Slowly across the dense jungle floor, the U. S. Army Ranger silently slide.
I am hunting for the enemy, the marked one, I have been ordered to slay.
In the dense bushes and under the shadows of the trees, I secretly hide.
I am always very careful to cover my tracks along the way.
Quietly moving, I quickly travel unseen across the jungle floor,
I make my way by night; I must be gone by the break of day.
Finally, I am now very close to my enemy’s front door.
Without delay, I am prepared to make this enemy into my prey.
Unseen, I set up my gear in the brush by the unguarded back gate.
I covered myself and concealed my gear under tree limbs and grass.
Carefully, focusing the scope on another enemy I have been ordered to eliminate.
Gently pulling the trigger on the 30-06 sniper rifle, I silently kill his ass.
Now that my assignment has successfully been done,
Quickly, I must make another run for the home base.
The U. S Army Ranger readily waits on the next one.
I wait for the next enemy I am assigned to erase.
(Copyright 2007)
Book One: The Journey Begins
(This is a fictional poetic series and short story about events that never take place and about people that have never existed. Any representation of an actual event or person is purely coincidental in nature.)
Mission Four: A bullet signed with my name.
Mission Four: A bullet signed with my name.
Today, my captain gave me another top secret mission plan.
For this mission I will be in charge of my own squad on a cold rainy night.
The Sergeant Major picked twelve well trained soldiers for me to command.
Just like every mission before, we are told to prepare for a serious fight
Noisily, the camouflaged helicopter landed beside a serene river bend.
Promptly, four of my men quickly disembarked and rushed to secured the hill.
In the darkness of the night, I immediately followed encircled by the rest of my men.
After we gather in a tight defensive formation, I informed them of who we came to kill.
I decided that it was best to separate the twelve men into three different crews.
A U. S. Army Ranger has a mixture of dangerous skills needed to take this place apart.
We are very well trained and the most effective weapon our country has to use.
After finishing the encouraging words I said, ‘It is time for our mission to start.’
Very silently each crew quickly and quietly departed each going a separate way.
My covert team carefully took most of our intended targets by surprise.
Suddenly, I turned around and killed the first enemy that day.
With my nine millimeter pistol, I shot him dead between his eyes.
From out of nowhere, sixteen of the enemy soldiers quickly surrounded us.
The team scout loudly shouted, “Hey look out! ” right before they came.
In return I shouted to my men, ’We will kill them too, if we must.’
Then came a silent twirling bullet signed with my name.
Roughly, the twirling hot bullet forcefully tore through the flesh of my  arm.
I cried out with the sounds of my pain and my team, around me, quickly gathers.
I reminded myself  that I must fight the pain; for my men I must remain calm.
If I do not mine the pain then it will not hurt; this mission is the only thing that matters.
Bravely and boldly, in the midst of the battle, we skillfully continued to fight.
The untrained and under equipped enemy quickly dies easily one by one.
We killed them all to ensure that our squad would safely escape into the night.
Finally, the last enemy fell and we waited for the other teams to be done.
A bomb that one of the other crews planted inside the enemy’s building suddenly erupt,
The building exploded into flames and through the air, pieces of bodies fly everywhere.
The team quickly gathered and waited for the camouflaged helicopter to pick us up.
Another thrilling battle has been fought and not one U. S. Army Ranger died there.
(Copyright 2007)
It was a dark night, full of fights, as if the sun will never rise
The bullets were passing beside me, but I couldn't realize
All the people were afraid, , I was trying to resist anywise
The voice of freedom rose high in the souls of the arise
The life of the oppressors, was walking anticlockwise
The voice of injustice blinked away, like its form analyse
The devil thought and thought, 'How could I make a plan,
to stop that voice, to regain everything without complain'
The birds began to sing, voice of freedom returned again
to prevail the happiness again, , to resist suffering pain.
The sun which we thought that it will never rise again.
it rose to remove steps of a man made it without vain.
The sun will keep rising and rising every day, , to bloom the flowers,
to remember us, how is that light, was thanks to God and martyrs.
This, then, the question
for those whom it may concern –
to find a celebration in oneself
that, as outer is, so inner;
that all truth rests within oneself –
for where else can it be found?
to love oneself – for oneself must be loveable,
or none other could be loved for true;
to know all happiness to be within;
to celebrate all this; the world a constant joy;
to find this celebration in oneself.
Dear,
Just give me a day of yours,
take my life in return!
I never like to snatch your love...
But like to surrender myself
and enjoy the joy of surrender!
Dear,
envelope my soul with
the armour of love,
enlighten my life with
compassion infinite!
01.01.99
Christmas, a joyful time of year.
Fun-filled days, lots of holiday cheer.
Children all over the world, year after year,
Wait for this special day in the hopes
of many gifts to open and play.
How soon we forget, the true
meaning of Christmas.
Sweet Jesus was born on this joyous day.
In a manger in Bethlehem oh, so far away.
No pillow for his head.
No blanket for his bed.
A true gift from God, our Father
Let us praise him instead.
Written:  Dec.2/06
Snowflakes fall elegantly,
Ice glints glow for all to see.
Lights of red, yellow, blue and green,
are all a part of the Christmas scene.
Clap your hands sing out loud,
Rejoice in the name of Jesus.
Tis his birth we celebrate,
knowing he’ll never leave us.
Gather round one and all,
It’s time to create a memory.
Stand proud, stand tall,
allow everyone to see.
The happiness and joy you possess,
will fall upon those, without rest.
A beautiful gift to share,
at this brilliant time of year.
Written:  Dec.7/06
All the time in the world
Can never be as precious
As the years your child grows
It is a luxury of the ambitious
Although minutes are impounded
With things that must be done
Chores and working for a dollar
Should not eliminate the fun
Children are a marvel to observe
Each moment becomes more satisfying
Even when the days are challenging
Rewards of success are gratifying
When the hours of budding have dissolved
An adult emerges and comprehends
With joy and laughter, remembering when…
The moments continue to give dividends
1/14/08
No matter how serene things
may be in my life,
how well things are going,
my body and soul
are two cliff peaks
from which a dream of who I can be
falls, and I must learn
to fly again each day,
or die.
Death draws respect
and fear from the living.
Death offers
no false starts. It is not
a referee with a pop-gun
at the startling
of a hundred yard dash.
I do not live to retrieve
or multiply what my father lost
or gained.
I continually find myself in the ruins
of new beginnings,
uncoiling the rope of my life
to descend ever deeper into unknown abysses,
tying my heart into a knot
round a tree or boulder,
to insure I have something that will hold me,
that will not let me fall.
My heart has many thorn-studded slits of flame
springing from the red candle jars.
My dreams flicker and twist
on the altar of this earth,
light wrestling with darkness,
light radiating into darkness,
to widen my day blue,
and all that is wax melts
in the flame-
I can see treetops!
It’s a joy smelling to high heavens
At day’s end, tending my garden
Dressed in mud
Kissed by the sun
It’s a joy singing old tunes
Alone, in a crowd
Loosing the key midway
Pulling it off anyways
It’s a joy dancing naked
Before my most feared critic
Peaking at myself in a
Horror-struck vanity mirror
It’s a joy being silent
When all else profound
A frog, yellow bellied
Dozing off on a lotus leaf
It’s a joy being loud
When the world dumbfounds
A crow rising at dawn
Training its vocal muscle
It’s a joy, letting fingers roam
Whenever they insist on
As I inscribe in earnest
My holy viewpoint
Oh joy!
I can write
When all else
Cease to exist
if it was a share
which gave you joy
how can you use it
as a ploy.
Arms around your waist,
And hairflying in the air,
That first joyride on mobike
On Delhi roads sealed our fate.
A lot can happen over coffee,
The best in town you will find,
As we walked hand in hand
Through a plush hotel lobby.
As we sat, you said say yes now,
What, we have just met, I protest.
I know for sure, it’s destined
Please just don’t ask me how.
Love at first sight,
I laughed out loud,
Happens in Mills and Boon,
As we slipped out at night.
I said yes the very next day
Still fills me with disbelief.
Like a hero of romantic movies
You were charming in so many ways.
Now the mobike is gone,
And we travel side by side,
In a luxury air conditioned car.
To  town, to work every morn.
In silence we drive, preoccupied
Hands on lap, hair in place,  I see
A couple on a speeding bike,
And think of that first joyride…
I  think  I'm  going  to  make  it  through,
It's  been  so  long  you  see;
There's  much  more  life  behind  me  now
Than  out  in  front  of  me.
There  was  a  time,  when  not  so  sure;
I  thought  to  end  it  then.
I  didn't  see  how  one  could  live
Without  much  joy  and  win.
But  I  found  out  you  can  endure
Without  a  special  one.
And  after  all,  it  must  be  said;
Of  fate,  what's  done  is  done.
And  so  I  choose  to  carry  on
With  life  and  burdens  bore.
I  hope  if  I  can  carry  these,
God  may  not  give  me  more.
But  if  He  did,  I  hope  He'd  grant,
My  just  one  simple  plea;
To  end  my  life  with  one  great  love
Who'd  bring  great  joy  to  me.
So  now  I'm  near  the  end  of  life,
My  joyless  days  near  done.
I'd  lie  if  I  would  dare  to  say,
I  never  did  have  fun.
But  what  is  true,  and  that's  the  rub,
Of  life,  don't  you  agree;
Is  love  is  really  what's  required,
For  joy  to  be  set  free?
So  on  it  is  with  what  remains,
I  hope,  not  very  long;
Of  life,  perhaps  to  know  great  love,
If  it  should  come  along.
And  as  I  go  my  separate  way,
I'll  not  begrudge  their  joy;
If  others  feel  what  I  once  felt,
When  I  was  just  a  boy.
Instead  I'll  smile  and  just  recall
The  joy  I  felt  back  then.
And  know  that  I'll  feel  soon  enough
Love's  wondrous  joy  again.
My love so intense
like fragrant musk’s incense
Would
permeate you
hypnotize you
anesthetize you
And you will shed tears of Joy.
My love so hot
like blazing sunspots
Would torment you
torture you
tantalize you
And you will shed tears of Joy.
My love so calm,
like soothing divine balm
Would comfort you
caress you
heal you
And you will shed tears of Joy.
My love so high
like majestic sky
Would shelter you
protect you
comfort you
And you will shed tears of Joy.
My love so forgiver
like pristine pure river
Would cleanse you
purify you
rectify you
And you will shed tears of Joy.
My love so divine
like Old bottled wine
Would energize you
galvanize you
divinize you
And you will shed tears of Joy.
My passion
emanating from divine station
would shock you
rock you
knock you
And you will shed tears of joy.
My emotions
healing as divine potion
would envelope you
embrace you
embarrass you
And you will shed tears of joy.
My divine eyes
calmer than sky
would chase you
daze you
amaze you
My Baby!
And you will shed tears of joy.
ANJALI  SINHA
18-12-2008
Can a man of old age find joy in his day of old?
Truly there is joy and light! If he search in the
Deepest core of his heart, there is a light, brighter
Than the sun that shine each day, whether it be
Sunny or gray. A light of truth that stands still in
His heart, as the candle without the fire, that
Desires, a spark. Waiting to explode as a huge
Volcano, or maybe a flick of flint. Truly joy is in
The light that is deep in his heart. If he search
After it, it will grow. If he refuse it, it will
Continue to drift away, as a bottle cast into the
Open sea, or a kite airborne with a broken string.
"Joy, light, all the same within the heart, hidden
Deep as the fossils of the days of old, search" I say,
As looking for a hidden treasure, while the time of
Life beats as the wave against the rocks on the sea
Shore. Before life is no more, find it quick, joy in the
Light of the heart.
February 18,2009 coming up-Happy Birthday Afzal Shauq
Azak my Pakistan friend, I send you warm wishes for a most happy birthday
I'm sure you and your family will have a wondrous day
I hope the sun shines brightly and all your family and friends gather
Making it a most memorable moment
I hope peace comes to your side of the world very soon
that all willlive in unity and harmony
That this birthday this year brings all you would have of it
And of course, many many more, in the years to follow...
© Ruth Lovejoy
She who did not come, wasn't she determined
nonetheless to organize and decorate my heart?
If we had to exist to become the one we love,
what would the heart have to create?
Lovely joy left blank, perhaps you are
the center of all my labors and my loves.
If I've wept for you so much, it's because
I preferred you among so many outlined joys.
The clouds are a skimming
Over the tops of the trees.
The birds are all chirping
Announcing a dawn symphony.
The world is a turning
In a heaven that’s spinning.
The traffic is moving
In a flow that’s confusing.
And heads are all nodding
In one single motion,
These words that are dancing are free!
And the clouds are a skimming
Over the tops of the trees.
I see you
coming through these fields of joy
through the blaze of wheat
lost in
this shimmering heat
haze
with & without
form
now a scarlet dress
now nothing but a flame
burning
in the distance
my heart
flaming with desire
at the thought of the touch of your hand
the ordinary everyday miracle of your smile
transforming itself into the mystery of your kiss
I see you
coming through
my fields of joy
a red flame
disguising itself
as a woman
shimmering through wheat
my heart lost
in this haze of heat
my voice
erases
the distance
closes down
the distance
longing for
the nearness
of your nearness
my words
set free to the sky
fly
into the shape
that birds would make
if they could write:
“I love you! ”
across this blue
you
waving
waving
at my voice
animal joy
freedom from
all guilts
To the music of Beethoven's ninth symphony
Joyful, joyful, we adore Thee,
God of glory, Lord of love;
Hearts unfold like flowers before Thee,
Praising Thee their sun above.
Melt the clouds of sin and sadness;
Drive the dark of doubt away;
Giver of immortal gladness,
Fill us with the light of day!
All Thy works with joy surround Thee,
Earth and heaven reflect Thy rays,
Stars and angels sing around Thee,
Centre of unbroken praise:
Field and forest, vale and mountain,
Blooming meadow, flashing sea,
Chanting bird and flowing fountain,
Call us to rejoice in Thee.
Thou art giving and forgiving,
Ever blessing, ever blest,
Well-spring of the joy of living,
Ocean-depth of happy rest!
Thou our Father, Christ our Brother, --
All who live in love are Thine:
Teach us how to love each other,
Lift us to the Joy Divine.
Mortals join the mighty chorus,
Which the morning stars began;
Father-love is reigning o'er us,
Brother-love binds man to man.
Ever singing march we onward,
Victors in the midst of strife;
Joyful music lifts us sunward
In the triumph song of life.
Joy, thou goddess, fair, immortal,
Offspring of Elysium,
Mad with rapture, to the portal
Of thy holy fame we come!
Fashion's laws, indeed, may sever,
But thy magic joins again;
All mankind are brethren ever
'Neath thy mild and gentle reign.
CHORUS.
Welcome, all ye myriad creatures!
Brethren, take the kiss of love!
Yes, the starry realms above
Hide a Father's smiling features!
He, that noble prize possessing--
He that boasts a friend that's true,
He whom woman's love is blessing,
Let him join the chorus too!
Aye, and he who but one spirit
On this earth can call his own!
He who no such bliss can merit,
Let him mourn his fate alone!
CHORUS.
All who Nature's tribes are swelling
Homage pay to sympathy;
For she guides us up on high,
Where the unknown has his dwelling.
From the breasts of kindly Nature
All of joy imbibe the dew;
Good and bad alike, each creature
Would her roseate path pursue.
'Tis through her the wine-cup maddens,
Love and friends to man she gives!
Bliss the meanest reptile gladdens,--
Near God's throne the cherub lives!
CHORUS.
Bow before him, all creation!
Mortals, own the God of love!
Seek him high the stars above,--
Yonder is his habitation!
Joy, in Nature's wide dominion,
Mightiest cause of all is found;
And 'tis joy that moves the pinion,
When the wheel of time goes round;
From the bud she lures the flower--
Suns from out their orbs of light;
Distant spheres obey her power,
Far beyond all mortal sight.
CHORUS.
As through heaven's expanse so glorious
In their orbits suns roll on,
Brethren, thus your proud race run,
Glad as warriors all-victorious!
Joy from truth's own glass of fire
Sweetly on the searcher smiles;
Lest on virtue's steeps he tire,
Joy the tedious path beguiles.
High on faith's bright hill before us,
See her banner proudly wave!
Joy, too, swells the angels' chorus,--
Bursts the bondage of the grave!
CHORUS.
Mortals, meekly wait for heaven
Suffer on in patient love!
In the starry realms above,
Bright rewards by God are given.
To the Gods we ne'er can render
Praise for every good they grant;
Let us, with devotion tender,
Minister to grief and want.
Quenched be hate and wrath forever,
Pardoned be our mortal foe--
May our tears upbraid him never,
No repentance bring him low!
CHORUS.
Sense of wrongs forget to treasure--
Brethren, live in perfect love!
In the starry realms above,
God will mete as we may measure.
Joy within the goblet flushes,
For the golden nectar, wine,
Every fierce emotion hushes,--
Fills the breast with fire divine.
Brethren, thus in rapture meeting,
Send ye round the brimming cup,--
Yonder kindly spirit greeting,
While the foam to heaven mounts up!
CHORUS.
He whom seraphs worship ever;
Whom the stars praise as they roll,
Yes to him now drain the bowl
Mortal eye can see him never!
Courage, ne'er by sorrow broken!
Aid where tears of virtue flow;
Faith to keep each promise spoken!
Truth alike to friend and foe!
'Neath kings' frowns a manly spirit!--
Brethren, noble is the prize--
Honor due to every merit!
Death to all the brood of lies!
CHORUS.
Draw the sacred circle closer!
By this bright wine plight your troth
To be faithful to your oath!
Swear it by the Star-Disposer!
Safety from the tyrant's power!
Mercy e'en to traitors base!
Hope in death's last solemn hour!
Pardon when before His face!
Lo, the dead shall rise to heaven!
Brethren hail the blest decree;
Every sin shall be forgiven,
Hell forever cease to be!
CHORUS.
When the golden bowl is broken,
Gentle sleep within the tomb!
Brethren, may a gracious doom
By the Judge of man be spoken!
'I have no name;
I am but two days old.'
What shall I call thee?
'I happy am,
Joy is my name.'
Sweet joy befall thee!
Pretty joy!
Sweet joy, but two days old.
Sweet Joy I call thee:
Thou dost smile,
I sing the while;
Sweet joy befall thee!
We were happy all that morning
Ο God how happy.
First the stones the leaves and the flowers shone
and then the sun
a huge sun all thorns but so very high in the heavens.
Α Nymph was gathering our cares and hanging them on the trees
a forest of Judas trees.
Cupids and satyrs were singing and playing
and rosy limbs could be glimpsed amid black laurel
the flesh of young children.
We were happy all that morning;
the abyss was a closed well
ο n which the tender foot of a young faun stamped
do γ ο υ remember its laughter: how happy we were!
And then clouds rain and the damp earth;
you stopped laughing when you reclined in the hut,
and opened your large eyes and gazed
on the archangel wielding a fiery sword
'Ι cannot explain it, ' you said, 'Ι cannot explain it, '
Ι find people impossible to understand
however much they may play with colors
they are all black.
GEORGE SEFERIS. Translated by Kimon Friar.
Past ash cans and alley cats,
Fetid. overflowing gutters,
Leprous lines of rancid flats
Where the frowsy linen flutters;
With a rattle and a jar,
hark! I sing a happy ditty,
As I speed my Master far
From the poison of the City.
Speed him to the sportive sea,
Watch him walloping the briny,
Light his pipe and brew his tea
In a little wood that's piny;
Haven him to peace of mind.
Drowsy dreams in pleasant places,
Where the woman's eyes are kind,
And the men have ruddy faces.
Just a jaloppy am I,
But he's always been my lover,
So each Sunday morn I try
Youthful joy to re-discover.
For he loves the wild and free,
And though he would never know it,
Nature thrills him with the glee
And the rapture of the poet.
He's a little invoice clerk,
I'm a worn and ancient flivver;
I have an asthmatic spark,
He an alcoholic liver;
Yet with clatter, clang and creak
We are lyrical for one day;
Then another loathly week,
Living for another Sunday.
Joy calls
She needs help she pleads
And I answer
Where and when
I do not bother
About why
I could be unethical
For my left hand
Must learn to give
Without my right
Hand knowing
And Hope comes next
Waiting at the Capitol
What a coincidence
She likes a hitch ride too
She needs help
Her heart is broken
And need immediate repair
I have this flashy car
With space enough for two
Or more
How can a man
Sane still
Refuse to give the best
Ride for lovely lonely women
Like them?
To err is human
But to make love is divine
And so I’ll go
What happens next
I will not tell you
Wait! My cell phone is ringing
It is Charity again calling!
Joy and joy
Find joy in living
Find joy in working
And I must think
You are perfect
Joy and joy
And no way left.
Love is flying so high wind is here.
Balloons fly on a beautiful windy day.
You took a part of my heart. Your memories fly
In the sky so high with love filling the air with joy and love. Joy is here love is flying
So high.    My Life Is You  You wrote your name in my heart. Because you
say you still love me so much. I Love you to.
To let this beautiful love go out of my lift. My
lift is you. I want to be. My love is you that
I could never forget your true love for me.
I have found my true love.
Year's end is swiftly encroaching,
Leaving the present year behind,
The New Year is fast approaching,
The goals we sought, did we find?
Were we satisfied with mediocrity?
Did we strive for so much less?
Did we flaunt an air of superiority?
Did we make of ourselves a pitiable mess?
The time is coming for a new resolution
The New Year offers new promise and hope
We plead with God for  His absolution
And trust in His mercy to help us cope.
Starting afresh, let us begin the New Year
By recalling His Tenets and  His Law
Remembering that He is always near
Ready to catch us if and when we fall.
Seas may rage and oceans may heave
And fall we shall ~ but do not always fear it
For Jesus told us that He will never leave
Through the Power of His Holy Spirit.
Spiritual things are seen and unseen
It is within the soul we come to know it;
In evaluating our walk we see where we've been
Growing in holiness ~ or ~ wallowing in sin
Forgiveness is needed without a doubt
And when it is given we want to shout
for and with
Joy and Peace and Love
All Blessings from God above!
Joy and Peace and Love! !
Joy and Peace and Love! ! !
Let's begin the New Year
with renewed
JOY and PEACE and LOVE
Sometimes a light surprises
The Christian while he sings;
It is the Lord who rises
With healing in his wings:
When comforts are declining,
He grants the soul again
A season of clear shining,
To cheer it after rain.
In holy contemplation,
We sweetly then pursue
The theme of God's salvation,
And find it ever new:
Set free from present sorrow,
We cheerfully can say,
E'en let th' unknown to-morrow
Bring with it what it may.
It can bring with it nothing
But he will bear us through;
Who gives the lilies clothing,
Will clothe his people too:
Beneath the spreading heavens,
No creature but is fed;
And he who feeds the ravens,
Will give his children bread.
Though vine nor fig-tree neither
Their wonted fruit shall bear,
Though all the field should wither,
Nor flocks nor herds be there:
Yet God the same abiding,
His praise shall tune my voice;
For while in him confiding,
I cannot but rejoice.
Sometimes a light surprises
The Christian while he sings;
It is the Lord who rises
With healing on His wings;
When comforts are declining,
He grants the soul again
A season of clear shining,
To cheer it after rain.
In holy contemplation
We sweetly then pursue
The theme of God's salvation,
And find it ever new;
Set free from present sorrow,
We cheerfully can say,
E'en let the unknown to-morrow
Bring with it what it may!
It can bring with it nothing,
But He will bear us through;
Who gives the lilies clothing,
Will clothe His people too;
Beneath the spreading heavens
No creature but is fed;
And He who feeds the ravens
Will give His children bread.
Though vine nor fig tree neither
Their wonted fruit shall bear,
Though all the field should wither,
Nor flocks nor herds be there:
Yet God the same abiding,
His praise shall tune my voice;
For, while in Him confiding,
I cannot but rejoice.
There's peace and joy in knowing
That love and truth so reign
That joy and peace in sowing
Momentum will just gain
If we could all just mend our hearts
Our minds and souls shall follow
In reaping sown harvested joys
Great hearts are far from hollow
Now, joy is born of parents poor,
And pleasure of our richer kind;
Though pleasure's free, she cannot sing
As sweet a song as joy confined.
Pleasure's a Moth, that sleeps by day
And dances by false glare at night;
But Joy's a Butterfly, that loves
To spread its wings in Nature's light.
Joy's like a Bee that gently sucks
Away on blossoms its sweet hour;
But pleasure's like a greedy Wasp,
That plums and cherries would devour.
Joy's like a Lark that lives alone,
Whose ties are very strong, though few;
But Pleasure like a Cuckoo roams,
Makes much acquaintance, no friends true.
Joy from her heart doth sing at home,
With little care if others hear;
But pleasure then is cold and dumb,
And sings and laughs with strangers near.
Then a woman said, "Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow."
And he answered:
Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.
And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.
And how else can it be?
The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.
Is not the cup that hold your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?
And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?
When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.
When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.
Some of you say, "Joy is greater than sorrow," and others say, "Nay, sorrow is the greater."
But I say unto you, they are inseparable.
Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed.
Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy.
Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced.
When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall.
Joy and Sorrow.........
Joy and sorrow
are
the light and shade of life
without light and shade
no picture is clear
(april 2009)
One can hear the voice of sorrow sobbing, sobbing endlessly
Yet it hides in dark recesses sorrow you can never see
It's a black and brooding creature with a voice that aches of pain
And all of those who have met with it hope not to meet with it again.
Joy is always bright and breezy joy has got a laughing face
And where ever joy is present you will find a happy place
Joy is loved by everybody the scars of grief it can repair
It is such a happy creature joy is welcome everywhere.
There is not one who likes sorrow you will not hear some one say
I've met with sorrow this morning and meeting it has made my day
At the mention of the name of sorrow people pretend not to hear
But joy always bright and happy greets you with a lusty cheer.
Sorrow it is dark and tearful and it hides in a dark and lonely place
But joy is always bright and cheerful and it greets you with a laughing face
And everybody hates old sorrow as it always gives rise to woe
But joy the happiest of the happy the one all people wish to know.
As a fisher-boy I fared
To the black rock in the sea,
And, while false gifts I prepared.
Listen'd and sang merrily,
Down descended the decoy,
Soon a fish attack'd the bait;
One exultant shout of joy,--
And the fish was captured straight.
Ah! on shore, and to the wood
Past the cliffs, o'er stock and stone,
One foot's traces I pursued,
And the maiden was alone.
Lips were silent, eyes downcast
As a clasp-knife snaps the bait,
With her snare she seized me fast,
And the boy was captured straight.
Heav'n knows who's the happy swain
That she rambles with anew!
I must dare the sea again,
Spite of wind and weather too.
When the great and little fish
Wail and flounder in my net,
Straight returns my eager wish
In her arms to revel yet!
Ring your sweet bells; but let them be farewells
To the green-vista’d gladness of the past
That changed us into soldiers; swing your bells
To a joyful chime; but let it be the last.
What means this metal in windy belfries hung
When guns are all our need? Dissolve these bells
Whose tones are tuned for peace: with martial tongue
Let them cry doom and storm the sun with shells.
Bells are like fierce-browed prelates who proclaim
That ‘if our Lord returned He’d fight for us.’
So let our bells and bishops do the same,
Shoulder to shoulder with the motor-bus.
Joy
gets a bad press
from poets and divines –
it’s fleeting, can’t
be trusted, brings
a downside;
better far they say
is bliss: quiet, indifferent,
that is, beyond all differences
that sadden; divisions
that steal our perfect,
timeless, spaceless I guess
unity
this poem looks
with joyful hope
or hopeful joy
well joy and hope
or would joy or hope be enough,
Paul,
to a future bliss
which when found
has no past or future but
only the perfect present
of the perfect present.
[another one with acknowledgements to Eckhart Tolle and ‘The Power of Now’…]
I have a friend who is a cowboy,
he flies fast jets for Uncle Sam,
persuaded me to come along
'twas a Sunday in September.
Smart uniform, exotic helmet,
strapped in behind a crazy guy.
He handed me a largish bag
that had blue string around the neck.
'Hold on to this, you may not need it',
he said on take-off, up we went,
we reached five g when your whole bod
gets heavy and you cannot wave.
Or speak, or lift your hand or grab
the pilot by the shoulder grimly,
the bag was used then, held by hands
that did belong to other sprits.
I told him how the flight was fun
but others did deserve a chance
so I'd stand back for two, three years
remembering that string-choked bag.
On these undulating hills where sheep roam free,
and every rabbit builds his own colony.
Yellow cowslips, pink clover and purple vetch,
add colour to the green fields as they stretch
as far as the eye can see.  Here’s such a view
to fill the heart with joy that’s long overdue.
The fresh, sweet, clear air that swirls and twirls around,
only in the quiet countryside is found.
And placid cows that will wander munching grass,
take such little notice of us as we pass.
Rooks cawing loudly throughout the hours of day,
seem to send a warning. ‘Don’t you dare to stay’.
This ground so lush with all its fine thriving plants.
Animals, birds and insects, how they all enhance.
Beautiful  treasury set out here to find,
available for each being of mankind.
The pleasure should be welcomed by everyone.
On these undulating hills, joy has begun.
©   Ernestine Northover
FIRST SPIRIT
Sister spirit, listen!
Methinks I hear a song,
Resounding strangely, sadly,
These peaceful plains along.
SECOND SPIRIT
'Tis like those lays we sang in earthly days,
When we trod our pilgrimage of pain;
FIRST SPIRIT
And earthlike are those values
Which chant the solemn strain:
CHORUS OF MORTALS
Low in the dust before Thee,
Great King of Kings, we fall!
Least of the host which adore Thee,
Do not despise our call!
From the paths of right,
We have wander'd, we have wander'd,
We have all gone astray;
In thy holy sight,
We are guilty, we are guilty --
We have all gone astray;
Yet hear us! hear us! hear us,
And cast us not away.
CHORUS OF ANGELS
Children of Earth! your pray'r is heard in Heaven,
Where Mercy heeds the softest whisper'd moan:
Ransom'd, arise! your sins are all forgiven,
Your Father saith who sitteth on the Throne:
And it is his gracious bidding:
"Bring forth the robes!" --
his heart of love was yearning
To greet repentant sons far away.
Lost once, but found!
We welcome their returning!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
FIRST SPIRIT
Sister spirit, yonder,
By that celestial gate,
What throngs of weary pilgrims,
In supplication wait.
SECOND SPIRIT
They know and yet how fondly those are met,
Who at last from wandering ways draw nigh --
FIRST SPIRIT
They know not yet how boundless
His love to whom they cry:
CHORUS OF MORTALS
No place claim we with the Holy,
Thronging thy blissfull halls;
Grant us a refuge lowly,
Graciously near these walls.
There on bended knees,
Tho' unworthy, most unworthy,
We will worship and pray;
Oh, hear us! hear us! hear us,
And cast us not away.
CHORUS OF ANGELS
Children of Earth! no more, in sadness bended,
You supplicate a distant Throne of Grace:
Ransom'd, arise! your days of prayer are ended --
You meet your waiting Father face to face:
For he sendeth heralds saying:
"Unfold the gates! -- with gladness come before us,
And to the royal seats to my guests convey."
Angels! begin the neverending chorus!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
There's joy in Heav'n today!
And I heard, and I heard
as it were the voice of a great multitude,
and the voice of many waters,
and the voice of mighty thunderings,
say ---- - ing;
FULL CHORUS
Glory to God! Glory to God!
Glory to God in the highest!
QUARTETTE
He gathers his wanderers home
We welcome the last arrived one!
Oh, bles-sed employ!
our infinite joy (our infinte joy)
Is begun!
FULL CHORUS
Now will we sing to Thee
(to Thee) (to Thee) now will we sing,
Our Father, our Redeemer and our King,
New songs (our sweetest songs)
of praise (our purest praise)
Our choicest, noblest, most triumphant lays,
For ev - (-er, ever) -er
more (For ever more)
For ev - (-er, ever) -er more.
Praise ye the Lord
For ev - (-er, ever) -er more.
God has created everything in twain
Life - Death
Love - Hate
Joy - Pain
And
Now i crave for the other side
Cuz everything has its joy
Joy has its joy
And
Even pain has its joy
But what everyone looks for
Is the joy of joy
But i seek for the pain
The Sweetness in Pain
Pain in Silence
Silence in Loneliness
Loneliness in Joy
Cuz everything has its Joy!
Joy in joy can only be stong
If after the aeons of pain
A ray of mirth shines
So joy is even incomplete without pain, sorrow etc.
And so i plead to God
Fill my soul with bitterness
Fill my life with Pain
And rest of the quest
I will search my self
She gave to all,
with caring hands
and warmth of heart.
They called her,
with a hint of praise
'our volunteer'.
Her man of fifty years
thought of himself
as flabbergast,
the very thought
of clubs and charities,
their numbers endless
like the grains of sand,
on beaches reeking strangely
of the musk of sweet infinity.
She had not needed much
in culinary goods
or in the way of sleep.
Her smile was tainted,
yes, a mixture of concern
and reassuring nods,
framed by a mischievous
and  maiden born enthusiasm.
When she laid eyes on me
that busy day, when all of us
had come to get acquainted,
there in the yard, a cask or two
and green VB on bags of ice,
we clicked just for the heck of it,
it seemed. And if she judged
it did not show, for which I was
as always glad, she took you
as you were or as you sought to be.
A shadow flashed across her cheeks
that helter-skelter afternoon
when life demanded all her skills
and selflessly she had complied,
again. And then again.
There was a pain, a real pain
down in the very pit of things,
and instantly she had become
a woman of unusual perception.
She'd been, by way of cyberwaves
become aware. So sad for litle folks.
What would they do, let down as such
by what the gods had now decreed,
it would be such a pain to tell,
especially the little ones, she would
be so bereft of words, the granny
who had met the match,
the one who took her speech away
by cutting deep within that heart of gold
and twisting once or twice,
just to make sure she understood.
And then, when she awoke again,
to wrap the Christmas gifts for all,
she had to steady trembling hands
and sit in the recliner from last year,
a present  of her grown up son,
attorney to the world, respected
and the father of those little darlings
who would be, with smiles of happiness
and reddened cheeks rush to the tree
and rip the living daylights out of wraps
and bows and cartons made by boys
in sweatshops of new opportunity,
down old Kolkata Way.
She would be resting then,
inside a box of cypress or mahogany
and think about them all, with Joy,
her little ears alert to all the sounds
that were her life and warmed her heart
so long ago. It was a life lived by a flower,
who never lost the fragrance of a rose.
Joy- joy, enjoy; yeah,
Joy- joy, enjoy
Your prayers,
Your worship, ahoy!
Joy- joy, enjoy; yeah,
Joy- joy, enjoy
There lit, God’s house,
Yonder, a darken hut,
There a feast,
Foods spilled all over,
Yonder, children waiting,
Waiting for dry bread,
Don’t coy—
Joy- joy, enjoy; yeah,
Joy- joy, enjoy
Those need. Indeed
We scared with money,
Fun and fun—so funny
Come and be liberal
Nourish and cherish
The living skeleton
Drought on body
Skinny, bone thorny
Just living,
Just breathing,
Just waiting,
Became a decoy,
Joy- joy, enjoy; yeah,
Joy- joy, enjoy
Lord is ashamed on us with our act,
Fooling the Lord, no prayer in fact
Joy, Joy, Joy
J oy-filled cornucopia  that
O verflows with goodies  that
Y ields from joy (the source) :
pleasure
happiness
enjoyment-so
allow no externals
To lay claim to inner joy!
Almedia Knight and
Claude H.Oliver II
The melody of the tune
Joy! Joy! Joy! Joy!
Joy! Joy! Joy! Joy!
Joy! Joy! Joy! Joy!
Joy!
Base
Alto
Soprano
Someone always missed the tune
We all laugh
At the end of that song
Joy!
Joy!
Joy!
The sopranos sang
We kept going
It seems so long
I smiled
All the way through this song
We all smiled
When we sang this one
It is the season of joy!
Let, joys rang
Like a bell
It prolong
Joy! Joy! Joy! ...
Oh how I enjoyed so very much
Fishing off a bridge
Or perhaps ‘long side the road
Or from up on a slight ridge
I remember many years ago
On the first day of the season
Going out before daylight
Getting my limit was the reason
Cold when I would paddle out
In a small and rented boat
And if I caught lots of fish
Oh, how I loved to gloat
But it was fun, I remember
As I tossed the long line out
And when I’d feel that tug
I’d wait to give a mighty shout
Until that little fish was on
And I’d nailed him on the spot
It was so much fun, my friend
Especially if he really fought
By the afternoon it was hot
So a cold drink I’d be wishing
And ready to go out again
For the ultimate joy of fishing!
Is it possible?
Can it be done?
To capture Joy
Loves smile begun
Tender hands
Safe and secure
Memories of home
Love is here, and more
Joy open and unafraid
Sharing and caring
Begotten not made
Smiling hearts
Abounding love
Free at last, to be
A child of God above
Love is here, and more
To have and to hold
Joy in mothers eyes
Tender security
In fathers sighs
Contentment revealed
In a moment of Joy
Captured in the heart
Of ever girl and boy
Can Joy be captured
I wonder if it can
Joy a transforming miracle
In the eyes of Sam and Dan
The heart of joy in wonder
In whispered smile above
Love is here, and more
Treasure the joy of Love.
Let a joy keep you.
Reach out your hands
And take it when it runs by,
As the Apache dancer
Clutches his woman.
I have seen them
Live long and laugh loud,
Sent on singing, singing,
Smashed to the heart
Under the ribs
With a terrible love.
Joy always,
Joy everywhere--
Let joy kill you!
Keep away from the little deaths.
My heart is like a little bird
That sits and sings for very gladness.
Sorrow is some forgotten word,
And so, except in rhyme, is sadness.
The world is very fair to me –
Such azure skies, such golden weather,
I’m like a long caged bird set free,
My heart is lighter than a feather.
I rise rejoicing in my life;
I live with love of God and neighbour;
My days flow on unmarred by strife,
And sweetened by my pleasant labour.
O youth! O spring! O happy days,
Ye are so passing sweet, and tender,
And while the fleeting season stays,
I revel care-free, in its splendour.
A DRAGON-FLY with beauteous wing
Is hov'ring o'er a silv'ry spring;
I watch its motions with delight,--
Now dark its colours seem, now bright;
Chameleon-like appear, now blue,
Now red, and now of greenish hue.
Would it would come still nearer me,
That I its tints might better see
It hovers, flutters, resting ne'er!
But hush! it settles on the mead.
I have it safe now, I declare!
And when its form I closely view,
'Tis of a sad and dingy blue--
Such, Joy-Dissector, is thy case indeed
When you gave me the whole world in a lollipop,
I licked it with glee!
I am wild, I will sing to the trees,
I will sing to the stars in the sky,
I love, I am loved, he is mine,
Now at last I can die!
I am sandaled with wind and with flame,
I have heart-fire and singing to give,
I can tread on the grass or the stars,
Now at last I can live!
There is much satisfaction in work well dond; praise is sweet; but can be no happiness equal to the joy of finding a heart that understands.
Joy! shipmate--joy!
(Pleas'd to my Soul at death I cry;)
Our life is closed--our life begins;
The long, long anchorage we leave,
The ship is clear at last--she leaps!
She swiftly courses from the shore;
Joy! shipmate--joy!
788
Joy to have merited the Pain—
To merit the Release—
Joy to have perished every step—
To Compass Paradise—
Pardon—to look upon thy face—
With these old fashioned Eyes—
Better than new—could be—for that—
Though bought in Paradise—
Because they looked on thee before—
And thou hast looked on them—
Prove Me—My Hazel Witnesses
The features are the same—
So fleet thou wert, when present—
So infinite—when gone—
An Orient's Apparition—
Remanded of the Morn—
The Height I recollect—
'Twas even with the Hills—
The Depth upon my Soul was notched—
As Floods—on Whites of Wheels—
To Haunt—till Time have dropped
His last Decade away,
And Haunting actualize—to last
At least—Eternity—
When we were but a babe
taking our first, little wobbly baby steps.
Our parents applauded and beamed with joy
with outreached arms, they stretched.
Then with time we raised our own
and when they stepped out, you praised.
Always there, to bring them up safely
and instilling  them, with standards raised.
In those little blessed first steps
was a joy we've seemed, to have forgotten or lost.
We don't seem to find, or see our blessings
in the baby steps we now walk.
Where is that joy and excitement?
We should all be walking in everyday?
They're just a bigger stride we're taking
but in a baby first step, stepping way.
One step closer to our Father's arms
which are outstretched just for you!
To catch you if you fall from grace
and make things, all the new.
Reminded of your first child's steps
and the ones you are taking now.
Just know that God the Father and Son
are there, supporting your walking now.
My love for you,
How rich in depth?
For joy to cherish,
For peace to restore,
For presence to make known,
My love to engulf!
Fireworks on candles,
Roses embedded beneath.
For love so pure,
For joy to rejoice,
For peace to uphold,
For presence to overwhelm,
My love to sparkle!
Lilies on a river,
Chandelier on the sky.
For love so innocent,
For joy to compel,
For peace to touch,
For presence to gaze,
My love till death will reign!
I wanted to say hello to some cyber-friends,
poets and commenters who stopped by to
send an encouraging word; wonderful
people who refrain from criticism as they
know how it hurts – yet never hold back
their praise when their hearts are touched
But Internet connection is so bad -
it refuses to allow me to reply tonight,
when I read a poem and click to comment,
the computer coldly informs me that it
cannot (will not? refuses to? !)   open
that site, forget your request
I’m doing my best to stay calm -
but I’ve lost it – I feel like killing the
bloody machine! - so to one and all;
please forgive if I don’t mention your
name; the bloody machine takes too long
I can’t look again – and the old memory
is clogged by thoughts murderous and angry –
Elmer and Goldy Locks; Tara, Patti, Sue, Max Reif,
Chris, Zen, Theo and Marci Made – and all whose
names I could not look up before losing my mind;
thank you for saying hello; I’m fine tonight - though
I hate my PC and the Internet - and now am
Convinced it hates me – I’ve decided you are
all figments of my imagination; as unreachable
as Mount Everest, but as wonderful as the best
dream; your presence became a vision to me –
thank you all for entering my dreams and being
part of an imaginary scheme of cyber-entities
Though the evil bewitched machine won’t allow
me to link with you; though I have to withdraw
from the world and live within myself; though
at work there is no time to forge bonds, I am
deliciously delighted by your poetry and your
PoemHunter presence; Monday I’ll try again
To steal some time to link up - until then;
all the best, enjoy your rest, may the weekend
be fun, may you have adventures and challenges
enough to keep you happy and fighting fit; may
your PC’s and Internet connections bring you more
joy - than mine has bloody well done!
AS a butterfly renew'd,
When in life I breath'd my last,
To the spots my flight I wing,
Scenes of heav'nly rapture past,
Over meadows, to the spring,
Round the hill, and through the wood.
Soon a tender pair I spy,
And I look down from my seat
On the beauteous maiden's head--
When embodied there I meet
All I lost as soon as dead,
Happy as before am I.
Him she clasps with silent smile,
And his mouth the hour improves,
Sent by kindly Deities;
First from breast to mouth it roves,
Then from mouth to hands it flies,
And I round him sport the while.
And she sees me hov'ring near;
Trembling at her lovers rapture,
Up she springs--I fly away,
"Dearest! let's the insect capture
Come! I long to make my prey
Yonder pretty little dear!"
At night the wide and level stretch of wold,
Which at high noon had basked in quiet gold,
Far as the eye could see was ghostly white;
Dark was the night save for the snow's weird light.
I drew the shades far down, crept into bed;
Hearing the cold wind moaning overhead
Through the sad pines, my soul, catching its pain,
Went sorrowing with it across the plain.
At dawn, behold! the pall of night was gone,
Save where a few shrubs melancholy, lone,
Detained a fragile shadow. Golden-lipped
The laughing grasses heaven's sweet wine sipped.
The sun rose smiling o'er the river's breast,
And my soul, by his happy spirit blest,
Soared like a bird to greet him in the sky,
And drew out of his heart Eternity.
My dearest Frank, I wish you joy
Of Mary's safety with a Boy,
Whose birth has given little pain
Compared with that of Mary Jane.--
May he a growing Blessing prove,
And well deserve his Parents' Love!--
Endow'd with Art's and Nature's Good,
Thy Name possessing with thy Blood,
In him, in all his ways, may we
Another Francis WIlliam see!--
Thy infant days may he inherit,
THey warmth, nay insolence of spirit;--
We would not with one foult dispense
To weaken the resemblance.
May he revive thy Nursery sin,
Peeping as daringly within,
His curley Locks but just descried,
With 'Bet, my be not come to bide.'--
Fearless of danger, braving pain,
And threaten'd very oft in vain,
Still may one Terror daunt his Soul,
One needful engine of Controul
Be found in this sublime array,
A neigbouring Donkey's aweful Bray.
So may his equal faults as Child,
Produce Maturity as mild!
His saucy words and fiery ways
In early Childhood's pettish days,
In Manhood, shew his Father's mind
Like him, considerate and Kind;
All Gentleness to those around,
And anger only not to wound.
Then like his Father too, he must,
To his own former struggles just,
Feel his Deserts with honest Glow,
And all his self-improvement know.
A native fault may thus give birth
To the best blessing, conscious Worth.
As for ourselves we're very well;
As unaffected prose will tell.--
Cassandra's pen will paint our state,
The many comforts that await
Our Chawton home, how much we find
Already in it, to our mind;
And how convinced, that when complete
It will all other Houses beat
The ever have been made or mended,
With rooms concise, or rooms distended.
You'll find us very snug next year,
Perhaps with Charles and Fanny near,
For now it often does delight us
To fancy them just over-right us.--
If it were not for you
It seems that every day would be
A life unfulfilled.
Winter then forever and no smile of spring.
An icy lake without a melted heart within.
You are my secret joy.
When first I saw your face
A satisfaction took the place of sad distraction.
I knew my mind had been in a phase of leaving,
You drew me back a pace, with you I saw commitment,
This time there could be no dreaming,
No time for grieving what was past.
My secret joy was here with me.
So many times, I saw her face in your face.
That special wisdom of her eyes in your eyes,
I knew a child I thought was gone for always
Had brought joy home.
I watch you watch the joy you have made
Wonder if you know the joy that you gave
Would like you to know that the joy that you made
Is my joy too.
However long before the joy that you made.
That little blue the two of you gave.
I had a little joy of my own.
Even though the joy that I made,
Has gone the road that life takes.
Singing love songs to the joys of her own,
I see reflections of the Joy that I made,
In the eyes and the heart of the Joy, she has made.
I can see pink joy reflected in blue joy,
When I see it.
My secret joy.
I love to  spend, stay and live in the sea
MEGGIE, the mermaid they loved to call me
With all the beautiful corals and fishes
These are my life's simple joy, you see
Collecting sea shells, big and small
In my small room i have it all
Consider it a  blessing
My entire life, i give thanks.and oh... i wanted to sing
Come and  see my favorite things
When the sky is blue, and i am feeling low
I  go back to see this place i know
And spend my whole life through
note: I spent my  entire younger days swimming in the sea
and my cousins fondly called me, 'Meggie the mermaid' he he.
thank you for any nice comment. Shalom!
If you want to make noise.
Make the noises of joy!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
They less annoy.
Too many backsliders on a ride,
That has driven many right out of their minds.
Too many entwined with crime,
That mankind finds and blinds!
There seems more hopelessness surviving.
More folks who are conniving in slime.
Just to have a pity party with those who tit for tat!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
They less annoy.
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
They less annoy.
Too many backsliders on a ride,
That has driven many right out of their minds.
Too many entwined with crime,
That mankind finds and blinds!
There seems more hopelessness surviving.
More folks who are conniving in slime.
Just to have a pity party with those who tit for tat!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
They less annoy.
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
They less annoy.
If you want to make noise,
Leave the pity where it's at!
Make the noises of joy.
You'll get a good feeling back!
If you want to make noise,
Leave the pity where it's at!
Make the noises of joy.
You'll get a good feeling back!
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
And leave the pity where it's at.
If you want to make noise,
Make the noises of joy!
They less annoy.
If you want to have joy,
Leave the pity where it's at!
If you want to have joy,
Leave the pity where it's at!
If you want to have joy,
Leave the pity where it's at!
If you want to have joy,
Leave the pity where it's at!
Good morning Mr Magpie
alone again, like me
I greet you then I bless myself
and hope that I shall see
your lady busy in the trees
up here in Jagger Green.
The wind is soft and urgent
on the pale green Yorkshire hills
rooks fuss in high bare branches
looking down on silent mills
and the magpie is a single bird
up here in Jagger Green.
I watched him as he rested
in the Mayday morning light
then hard and low and straight there came
another flash of black and white
and the sun is like a woman's kiss
up here in Jagger Green.
ONE hour to madness and joy!
O furious! O confine me not!
(What is this that frees me so in storms?
What do my shouts amid lightnings and raging winds mean?)
O to drink the mystic deliria deeper than any other man!
O savage and tender achings!
(I bequeath them to you, my children,
I tell them to you, for reasons, O bridegroom and bride.)
O to be yielded to you, whoever you are, and you to be yielded to me,
in defiance of the world!
O to return to Paradise! O bashful and feminine!                   10
O to draw you to me--to plant on you for the first time the lips of a
determin'd man!
O the puzzle--the thrice-tied knot--the deep and dark pool! O all
untied and illumin'd!
O to speed where there is space enough and air enough at last!
O to be absolv'd from previous ties and conventions--I from mine, and
you from yours!
O to find a new unthought-of nonchalance with the best of nature!
O to have the gag remov'd from one's mouth!
O to have the feeling, to-day or any day, I am sufficient as I am!
O something unprov'd! something in a trance!
O madness amorous! O trembling!
O to escape utterly from others' anchors and holds!                20
To drive free! to love free! to dash reckless and dangerous!
To court destruction with taunts--with invitations!
To ascend--to leap to the heavens of the love indicated to me!
To rise thither with my inebriate Soul!
To be lost, if it must be so!
To feed the remainder of life with one hour of fulness and freedom!
With one brief hour of madness and joy.
They call her Milly
next door,
but we think Milly
is rather silly.
She’ll always be
Miss P to us.
They knocked
round lunchtime yesterday
excited
‘Milly’s back
and guess what? ’
We crept up the path
(tinder dry after summer heat)
and spied her
wandering casually
and maternally
among the dead azaleas
with three young chicks
in tow -
Joy of joys!
(we thought she'd flown) .
We watched
enchanted
as they wolfed
the crumbs of bread -
hungry it would seem
and completely at peace
with their world.
We spoke about
‘last year’
and the lone chick
who lingered… not long enough.
And shared a prayer
that the cats,
the kookaburras
and the currawongs
might leave them alone this time.
IF the quick spirits in your eye
Now languish and anon must die;
If every sweet and every grace
Must fly from that forsaken face;
Then, Celia, let us reap our joys
Ere Time such goodly fruit destroys.
Or if that golden fleece must grow
For ever free from aged snow;
If those bright suns must know no shade,
Nor your fresh beauties ever fade;
Then fear not, Celia, to bestow
What, still being gather'd, still must grow.
Thus either Time his sickle brings
In vain, or else in vain his wings.
Phyllis is my only joy,
Faithless as the winds or seas;
Sometimes coming, sometimes coy,
Yet she never fails to please;
If with a frown
I am cast down,
Phyllis smiling,
And beguiling,
Makes me happier than before.
Though, alas! too late I find
Nothing can her fancy fix,
Yet the moment she is kind
I forgive her all her tricks;
Which, though I see,
I can't get free;
She deceiving,
I believing;
What need lovers wish for more?
To regret is a kind of joy.
To repent is a kind of joy.
To render yourself pitiable
And to lament the loss of yours
Too is a kind of joy.
To long for someone you loved
And pine is also a kind of joy.
They relieve you of the burden.
12.01.2008
I pray you, Sadness, leave me soon,
In sweet invention thou art poor!
Thy sister, Joy can make ten songs
While thou art making four.
One hour with thee is sweet enough;
But when we find the whole day gone
And no created thing is left --
We mourn the evil done.
Thou art too slow to shape thy thoughts
In stone, on canvas, or in song;
But Joy, being full of active heat,
Must do some deed ere long.
Thy sighs are gentle, sweet thy tears;
But if thou canst not help a man
To prove in substance what he feels --
Then givve me Joy, who can.
Therefore sweet Sadness, leave me soon,
Let thy bright sister, Joy, come more;
For she can make ten lovely songs
While thou art making four.
The moon whispers a sweet lullaby to an audience
Of starlets in the morning sky
Soft breezes uncover the layer of my happiness
Lazy clouds of grey melt in the sunshine of our love.
Memories of a lost childhood become reality.
We share a special melody that embraces us in a dream.
Your presence warms the coldest days
When I cannot be with you.
It ignites the sacred hearth within my fragile soul
And strengthens my undying devotion to you.
You fill my cup of passion
When I see the twinkle in your eye.
My life is complete.
Come share of my joy.
Tune up your strings in harmony
Strike up your song of joy
And learn the music, let it sound
Stand up and sing your song
When birds begin to sing their song
You know the night has gone
When all the shadows have withdrawn
You know the day has dawned
And then be pleased, you living one
To see the morning sun
Be pleased to see the newborn smile
And know that life worthwhile
Be pleased to feel the morning dew
And life being born anew
Be pleased to touch your lover's heart
And know you'll never part
Be pleased to hear all nature sings
A hymn to you it brings
With notes and chords of sacred vow
To be the eternal Now
Tune up your strings in harmony
Strike up your song of joy
And learn the music, let it sound
Stand up and sing your song
Copyright © 2008 Göran Gustafsson. All rights reserved
Sing out, my soul, thy songs of joy;
Sing as a happy bird will sing
Beneath a rainbow's lovely arch
In the spring.
Think not of death in thy young days;
Why shouldst thou that grim tyrant fear?
And fear him not when thou art old,
And he is near.
Strive not for gold, for greedy fools
Measure themselves by poor men never;
Their standard still being richer men,
Makes them poor ever.
Train up thy mind to feel content,
What matters then how low thy store?
What we enjoy, and not possess,
Makes rich or poor.
Filled with sweet thought, then happy I
Take not my state from other's eyes;
What's in my mind -- not on my flesh
Or theirs -- I prize.
Sing, happy soul, thy songs of joy;
Such as a Brook sings in the wood,
That all night has been strengthened by
Heaven's purer flood.
Is there not joy in being man, woman?
Is there not joy inhabiting the earth?
Is there not joy in being an Indian?
Is there not joy in having still our breath?
Is there not joy in being born well formed?
Is there not joy with senses all intact?
Is there not joy with brain so well informed?
Is there not joy in living for truth/ fact?
Is there not joy believing in one God?
Is there not joy in fighting evils?
Is there not joy when Friend is but the Lord?
Is there not joy resisting all devils?
Is there not joy preparing for Heaven?
Is there not joy to say always, `Amen’?
The greatest joy on earth is our children;
To see them born healthy and grow up well;
To see them acquire God's precious ken,
That guides them to Heaven, avoiding hell.
What joy it is to see them walk on fours!
And learn to move, to utter sounds with sense;
What joy it is to hear their mental stores!
To see them worldly-wise, avoid non-sense.
What, joy to see the child, Father of man!
What joy to see them outdo their parents!
What joy when things we cannot do, they can!
What joy to see their God-given talents?
Our children are the apples of our eyes;
The Almighty God, we see, in their guise.
Love's Lunacy
Why do I speak of joy, or write of love,
When my heart is the very den of horror,
And in my soul the pains of Hell I prove,
With all his torments and infernal terror?
What should I say? What yet remains to do?
My brain is dry with weeping all too long,
My sighs be spent in uttering my woe,
And I want words wherewith to tell my wrong;
But, still distracted in Love's lunacy,
And, bedlam-like, thus raging in my grief,
Now rail upon her hair, then on her eye,
Now call her Goddess, then I call her thief,
Now I deny her, then I do confess her,
Now do I curse her, then again I bless her.
There's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away
When the glow of early thought declines in feeling's dull decay;
'Tis not on youth's smooth cheek the blush alone, which fades so fast,
But the tender bloom of heart is gone, ere youth itself be past.
Then the few whose spirits float above the wreck of happiness
Are driven o'er the shoals of guilt, or ocean of excess:
The magnet of their course is gone, or only points in vain
The shore to which their shivered sail shall never stretch again.
Then the mortal coldness of the soul like death itself comes down;
It cannot feel for others' woes, it dare not dream its own;
That heavy chill has frozen o'er the fountain of our tears,
And though the eye may sparkle still, 'tis where the ice appears.
Though wit may flash from fluent lips, and mirth distract the breast,
Through midnight hours that yield no more their former hope of rest,
'Tis but as ivy-leaves around the ruined turret wreath—
All green and wildly fresh without, but worn and grey beneath.
Oh, could I feel as I have felt, or be what I have been,
Or weep as I could once have wept, o'er many a vanished scene;
As springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be,
So, midst the withered waste of life, those tears would flow to me.
Surprised By Joy
Surprised by joy — impatient as the Wind
I turned to share the transport--Oh! with whom
But Thee, deep buried in the silent tomb,
That spot which no vicissitude can find?
Love, faithful love, recalled thee to my mind--
But how could I forget thee? Through what power,
Even for the least division of an hour,
Have I been so beguiled as to be blind
To my most grievous loss?--That thought's return
Was the worst pang that sorrow ever bore,
Save one, one only, when I stood forlorn,
Knowing my heart's best treasure was no more;
That neither present time, nor years unborn
Could to my sight that heavenly face restore.
Perfume of tenderness
Soft hugs of kindness
Lips filled with honesty
A heart of loyalty
A brain of integrity
A voice of romance
Her Words  exhilarate
That's the flower I  hold
One that's very rare
With beauty that matches
Angels in the sky
Her beauty within
Matches yellow roses
Found in paradise
As  beauty within
Wets my cocoon of life
Gladness slaps my face
Knowing the flames of love
Burns in my flower's heart
Gives gratification
Which makes me cry
Many tears of joy
copyright ©
They put a leather belt around her
13 feet of tape and bound her
Handcuffs to secure her
And only God knows what else,
She's illegal, so deport her
Said the Empire that brought her
She died,
Nobody killed her
And she never killed herself.
It is our job to make her
Return to Jamaica
Said the Alien Deporters
Who deports people like me,
It was said she had a warning
That the officers were calling
On that deadly July morning
As her young son watched TV.
An officer unplugged the phone
Mother and child were now alone
When all they wanted was a home
A child watch Mummy die,
No matter what the law may say
A mother should not die this way
Let human rights come into play
And to everyone apply.
I know not of a perfect race
I know not of a perfect place
I know this is not a simple case
Of Yardies on the move,
We must talk some Race Relations
With the folks from immigration
About this kind of deportation
If things are to improve.
Let it go down in history
The word is that officially
She died democratically
In 13 feet of tape,
That Christian was over here
Because pirates were over there
The Bible sent us everywhere
To make Great Britain great.
Here lies the extradition squad
And we should all now pray to God
That as they go about their job
They make not one mistake,
For I fear as I walk the streets
That one day I just may meet
Officials who may tie my feet
And how would I escape.
I see my people demonstrating
And educated folks debating
The way they're separating
The elder from the youth,
When all they are demanding
Is a little overstanding
They too have family planning
Now their children want the truth.
As I move around I am eyeing
So many poets crying
And so many poets trying
To articulate the grief,
I cannot help but wonder
How the alien deporters
(As they said to press reporters)
Can feel absolute relief.
THE INNER JOY
The inner joy
writing the poetry
brings
may be
the only real thing.
Water, you send joy to my heart
To flow like an inspiring art
In the moment of fresh sunlight,
Given succour so sweet and bright.
Of what manner does your joy bring?
Flowing so that my heart did sing
Of the wind that came with splendour,
Wondrous in it to add colour.
Water, my heart is made calm as a dove
By your joy that comforts with love.
How it places my heart so good
That it does it with brightened mood.
Yet my heart truly shines with beams,
Dressed with pleasures more than sweet dreams.
Your water made it to feel higher
With life of so much deep desire.
Water, with vigour your joy heals
My heart so nicely that it feels.
So great that my heart now smiles deep
With warm rays of the sun to keep.
Beyond the glass snowfall is luminous.
Winter burns like a lamp upon the sill.
The old house creaks in deference to the wind.
Kind eyes affirm that cold cannot come in.
Time for the robins? If you say so, Friend.
Praise for the woodfires that have warmed our past.
Red firelight paints the ceiling with itself.
The joy of our mere being is alive.
We do not yet concede the mood to spring,
The scent of lilacs and the young, green trees.
For us bare branches are articulate,
They tell us all we ever need to know.
Copyright,2008, Sandra Fowler
I
Let others sing of gold and gear, the joy of being rich;
But oh, the days when I was poor, a vagrant in a ditch!
When every dawn was like a gem, so radiant and rare,
And I had but a single coat, and not a single care;
When I would feast right royally on bacon, bread and beer,
And dig into a stack of hay and doze like any peer;
When I would wash beside a brook my solitary shirt,
And though it dried upon my back I never took a hurt;
When I went romping down the road contemptuous of care,
And slapped Adventure on the back -- by Gad! we were a pair;
When, though my pockets lacked a coin, and though my coat was old,
The largess of the stars was mine, and all the sunset gold;
When time was only made for fools, and free as air was I,
And hard I hit and hard I lived beneath the open sky;
When all the roads were one to me, and each had its allure . . .
Ye Gods! these were the happy days, the days when I was poor.
II
Or else, again, old pal of mine, do you recall the times
You struggled with your storyettes, I wrestled with my rhymes;
Oh, we were happy, were we not? -- we used to live so "high"
(A little bit of broken roof between us and the sky);
Upon the forge of art we toiled with hammer and with tongs;
You told me all your rippling yarns, I sang to you my songs.
Our hats were frayed, our jackets patched, our boots were down at heel,
But oh, the happy men were we, although we lacked a meal.
And if I sold a bit of rhyme, or if you placed a tale,
What feasts we had of tenderloins and apple-tarts and ale!
And yet how often we would dine as cheerful as you please,
Beside our little friendly fire on coffee, bread and cheese.
We lived upon the ragged edge, and grub was never sure,
But oh, these were the happy days, the days when we were poor.
III
Alas! old man, we're wealthy now, it's sad beyond a doubt;
We cannot dodge prosperity, success has found us out.
Your eye is very dull and drear, my brow is creased with care,
We realize how hard it is to be a millionaire.
The burden's heavy on our backs -- you're thinking of your rents,
I'm worrying if I'll invest in five or six per cents.
We've limousines, and marble halls, and flunkeys by the score,
We play the part . . . but say, old chap, oh, isn't it a bore?
We work like slaves, we eat too much, we put on evening dress;
We've everything a man can want, I think . . . but happiness.
Come, let us sneak away, old chum; forget that we are rich,
And earn an honest appetite, and scratch an honest itch.
Let's be two jolly garreteers, up seven flights of stairs,
And wear old clothes and just pretend we aren't millionaires;
And wonder how we'll pay the rent, and scribble ream on ream,
And sup on sausages and tea, and laugh and loaf and dream.
And when we're tired of that, my friend, oh, you will come with me;
And we will seek the sunlit roads that lie beside the sea.
We'll know the joy the gipsy knows, the freedom nothing mars,
The golden treasure-gates of dawn, the mintage of the stars.
We'll smoke our pipes and watch the pot, and feed the crackling fire,
And sing like two old jolly boys, and dance to heart's desire;
We'll climb the hill and ford the brook and camp upon the moor . . .
Old chap, let's haste, I'm mad to taste the Joy of Being Poor.
Down the dimpled green-sward dancing
Bursts a flaxen-headed bevy,
Bud-lipt boys and girls advancing
Love's irregular little levy.
Rows of liquid eyes in laughter,
How they glimmer, how they quiver!
Sparkling one another after,
Like bright ripples on a river.
Tipsy band of rubious faces,
Flushed with joy's etheral spirit,
Make your mocks and sly grimaces
At Love's self, and do not fear it!
One of the things that I'm most proud of
Since I was very young
Is learning to cook and enjoying it so
And what a pleasure it has become
It started with egg sandwiches for Dad
He liked one when he wanted a snack
He said mine were the best that could be had
I was proud to do something back
Then there was the apples pies I baked
One day when mom was out
And to my joy, the crust turned out great!
And my love of cooking came about
Mom taught me to season everything just right
And all the tips she knew
The soups and gravies, and cakes so lite
The cassaroles and the irish stew
Then I was making dinner for the family
My four brothers, mom and dad, and me
And at fourteen years old I was hired to cook
For the neighbor with seven kids to feed!
Later when I got a place on my own
I couldn't afford to go out to eat
I could barely afford to pay the rent!
I was broke, but I ate like a queen!
I've fed all my family and friends that I know
And catered parties and festivals too
And the joy that I feel can't help but show
I love to nurture people with food!
We must all nourish our bodies each day
So why not make it taste great!
With a little planning, a will, and a way
The skies the limit on what we can make!
The joy of cooking is something learned and shared
And it unites the young and the old
A lifelong love that can only be compared
To a treasure more precious than gold!
It's good the great green earth to roam,
Where sights of awe the soul inspire;
But oh, it's best, the coming home,
The crackle of one's own hearth-fire!
You've hob-nobbed with the solemn Past;
You've seen the pageantry of kings;
Yet oh, how sweet to gain at last
The peace and rest of Little Things!
Perhaps you're counted with the Great;
You strain and strive with mighty men;
Your hand is on the helm of State;
Colossus-like you stride . . . and then
There comes a pause, a shining hour,
A dog that leaps, a hand that clings:
O Titan, turn from pomp and power;
Give all your heart to Little Things.
Go couch you childwise in the grass,
Believing it's some jungle strange,
Where mighty monsters peer and pass,
Where beetles roam and spiders range.
'Mid gloom and gleam of leaf and blade,
What dragons rasp their painted wings!
O magic world of shine and shade!
O beauty land of Little Things!
I sometimes wonder, after all,
Amid this tangled web of fate,
If what is great may not be small,
And what is small may not be great.
So wondering I go my way,
Yet in my heart contentment sings . . .
O may I ever see, I pray,
God's grace and love in Little Things.
So give to me, I only beg,
A little roof to call my own,
A little cider in the keg,
A little meat upon the bone;
A little garden by the sea,
A little boat that dips and swings . . .
Take wealth, take fame, but leave to me,
O Lord of Life, just Little Things.
What a thrill it is to travel
Perhaps in a different country
The cultures incredibly diverse
So many wonderful things to see
The clothes can be so different
Unique in their treasured styles
An entirely distinctive kind of people
With their friendly happy smiles
And the food can be quite challenging
Different tastes and how they eat
But, hey, I’m ready to try it
Doesn’t have to be potatoes and meat
Different ways and thoughts of worship
It is such an international treat
To see the different cultures
And all the interesting folks you meet
So if you get a chance, folks
Get on a plane or cruising ship
Take yourself to another country
Have a great and wonderful trip!
Read this morning people write
the end of their story right from
the beginning of their life and all
through the way, look what people
are doing and how they treat
others to get a hint of the end
I fell into a reverie thinking of the
beginning of you and me, how you
noticed my problems and helped me
up when I fell, how you treated other
people and how your joie die vivre
increased with the years
I feel sure there is a beautiful ending
for us, I know that your lips are more
eager to smile and kiss than ever be-
fore, your arms are stronger, your tread
more steadfast, I can tell you are writing
an enchanting tale for us
I can’t get enough of the joy you bring
into my life, I jumped up and sent you
an SMS just to say I love you so much…
I love the way you take my hand and
Lead me through the lane,
It's amazing how you make me laugh
So don't fell the pain.
A mother's love is the strongest type and
This you cannot deny,
Thank you for always being my light
You are the perfect guide.
I've never thought about much
'I love you' really means.
You've always found the time to listen
To my highs, lows and in betweens
I'll never really understand how
You have the energy to care,
There is no doubt about it I'll always respect
The joy you have to share.
THE PANGS that guard the gates of joy,
the naked sword that will be kist,
how distant seem’d they to the boy,
white flashes in the rosy mist!
Ah, not where tender play was screen’d
in the light heart of leafy mirth
of that obdurate might we ween’d
that shakes the sure repose of earth.
And sudden, ’twixt a sun and sun,
the veil of dreaming is withdrawn:
lo, our disrupt dominion
and mountains solemn in the dawn;
hard paths that chase the dayspring’s white,
and glooms that hold the nether heat:
oh, strange the world upheaved from night,
oh, dread the life before our feet!
The  only  things  of  value
Contained  in  God's  array,
Are  found  in  those  few  moments
When  love  is  on  display.
The  precious  little  seconds
When  lovers  realize
The  joy  and  satisfaction
They  see  in  each  ones  eyes.
The  words  that  pass  in  whispers,
That  shiver  down  the  spine,
The  yearning  for  each  other
That  seems  almost  divine.
It's  when  such  moments  linger,
Those  moments  of  romance;
That  all  life  finds  its  value
In  just  one  loving  glance.
We  all  dream  of  such  moments.
Why  then,  are  they  so  rare?
It  seems  we'd  rather  harbor  love,
Than  spread  it  here  and  there.
We've  shed  our  tears  of  sorrow.
What's  left  are  those  of  joy.
A  strategy  of  loving
Is  what  we  should  employ.
Hug  the  ones  you  cherish,
Just  kiss  and  hold  them  tight.
Do  what  you  have  yet  to  do,
But  always  thought  you  might.
Remember,  lifetimes  numbers
Are  found  on  every  crown.
I  wonder  why  you're  waiting,
The  rain  is  pouring  down.
And  if  you  have  nobody,
Don't  make  this  poor  excuse.
Just  ask,  and  you'll  find  someone
Prepared  to  set  love  loose.
All  souls  should  be  companioned.
Two  hearts  should  beat  as  one.
Two  lips  should  feel  the  passion
Of  kisses,  every  one.
Four  eyes  should  see  the  beauty.
Four  hands  should  gently  feel.
And  tears  of  joy,  when  falling;
Is  love,  both  true  and  real.
For  each  of  us,  though  strangers,
Still  seek  love  as  our  goal.
As  God  wished  His  creations
To  join  as  just  one  soul.
However  you  may  find  it,
No  matter  for  how  long,
There  is  no  love  created
By  two  that  can  be  wrong.
So  have  as  your  endeavor,
His  calling  from  above.
The  spread  of  God's  creation.
The  Wondrous  Joy  Of  Love.
WYNTER wakeneth al my care,
Nou this leves waxeth bare;
Ofte I sike ant mourne sare
When hit cometh in my thoht
Of this worldes joie, hou hit goth al to noht.
Nou hit is, and nou hit nys,
Al so hit ner nere, ywys;
That moni mon seith, soth hit ys:
Al goth bote Godes wille:
Alle we shule deye, thah us like ylle.
Al that gren me graueth grene,
Nou hit faleweth albydene:
Jesu, help that hit be sene
Ant shild us from helle!
For y not whider y shal, ne hou longe her duelle.
My heart is racing
My nerves breaking
Tension’s heavy in the air
Euphoria’s waking
My body shaking
Tensed for a scare
Numbing joy
Or shattering pain
One is inevitable,
Like the coming rain
Three seconds
Free of both pain and joy
Three seconds to wait
Feeling like the smallest boy
172
'Tis so much joy! 'Tis so much joy!
If I should fail, what poverty!
And yet, as poor as I,
Have ventured all upon a throw!
Have gained! Yes! Hesitated so—
This side the Victory!
Life is but Life! And Death, but Death!
Bliss is, but Bliss, and Breath but Breath!
And if indeed I fail,
At least, to know the worst, is sweet!
Defeat means nothing but Defeat,
No drearier, can befall!
And if I gain! Oh Gun at Sea!
Oh Bells, that in the Steeples be!
At first, repeat it slow!
For Heaven is a different thing,
Conjectured, and waked sudden in—
And might extinguish me!
To the tune "As in a Dream"
I have long remembered
the pavilion
on the stream
the falling sun
so deep in wine
we did not know
the way home
how pleasure spent
late returning
the skiff
thoughtless
entered
a lotus deep place
and struggling through
struggling through
we scared up
from the sand
gulls and herons.
What joy has filled my empty heart
For so long starved of love,
My spirit floating through the air
And on the clouds above.
What joy has come to me at last
When all my hope had gone,
For finally my luck has changed
And fortune now has shone.
What joy when all I had was lost
Alone and poor was I,
But now my future seems so clear
Just like the summer sky.
What joy has filled my empty heart
Now it does sing for thee,
The love for which I'd waited long
Shall last eternally.
Wine and joy are completely forgotten,
As well as his armor and sword.
Alone he descends in the rotten
Mysterious dungeon. The door
Is squeaking with long drawn sound
For no one has entered inside.
The dark and the damp reign around.
The window is narrow and high.
His eyes grow accustomed to the gloom and
Through the dust and the web he explores
Some strange marks, emerging and looming
On the floor, on the vaults, on the walls.
He gazes at the marks’ interlacement
At those incomprehensible signs
And tarries for Death to embrace him
To enlighten his soul and eyes.
Each day I live I thank the Lord
I do the work I love;
And in it find a rich reward,
All price and praise above.
For few may do the work they love,
The fond unique employ,
That fits them as a hand a glove,
And gives them joy.
Oh gentlefolk, do you and you
Who toil for daily hire,
Consider that the job you do
Is to your heart's desire?
Aye, though you are to it resigned,
And will no duty shirk,
Oh do you in your private mind
Adore your work?
Twice happy man whose job is joy,
Whose hand and heart combine,
In brave and excellent employ
As radiantly as mine!
But oh the weary, dreary day,
The wear and tear and irk
Of countless souls who cannot say:
'I love my work.'
Your joy is my joy!
And, your laughter heals my soul.
The city of songs,
The smile on your face heals my heart;
The city of music!
Your laughter is like medicine to my heart;
Friendship should have rules and,
Everybody should obey them.
The future is with the influence of your life today,
So, you can change your life for the better is you want to;
Loon, loom!
True-love is with the wonder formula of life;
Your joy is my joy and,
Your laughter heals my soul.
I banked the table very hard twice because,
I was tired of the negative systems around me;
Oh, what kind of people are these? !
12th June 2010,
And of the dirty chains around my neck;
For these people do not understand the sense of life.
Why can't they understand me for what i am made of?
Why can't they understand me for who i am?
For i need my freedom to represent my status in this land.
1st June!
Heart attack! !
Admitted at the hospital;
And this was the muse of my father-in-law!
But, on the same day was,
My child's first day at school.
The phone rang and,
The news came in! !
For, my father-in-law was admitted;
But, this day and date will always be remembered!
For, it was also my child's first day at school.
leaf skeletons
stems hollow
tiny veins, rigid
support air
where once lay
fragrant memory
The early morning fresh rain
Gentle like blues
Dance away the grey dawn
Dance away the silence
The soft drizzle
Falling on my chin
Dancing into my eyes
Wetting my memories
I walk in the lightsome rain
Arms open to hug the rain
The gift you send from heaven
I forget your absence on 30 June
Pain produces  perfect pearl
For pearls are not just mineral
Aphrodisiacal oysters
Provide perfect pearls - pre-packaged!
Inside their shells gently growing.
The pearl symbolises - purity
In love - in life - in liberty.
Pain produces  perfect pearl.
Natural pearls are so spontaneous
Growing slowly throughout lifetime
Seven years inside the mollusk
Gulfs of Persia - California
Jordan - Mexico and Mannar
Pearls of every size and colour
White - silver - cream - green - black and blue
Natual pearls are so spontaneous.
Birthstone pearls grace Joyful June
Fueling faithfulness and friendship
Healing heads and hearts and hearing
Bringing wearers nearer Heaven
Twinned with Zodiac sign Gemini
Channels the strength of Sister Moon
Pulsating purifying power.
Birthstone pearls grace Joyful June
Polished pearls give perfect pleasure
Pain produces perfect pearls
Natural pearls are so spontaneous
Birthstone pearls grace Joyful June.
June Joyful grace pearls Birthstone
Spontaneous so are pearls natural
Pearls perfect produces pain
Pleasure perfect give pearls polished.
This poem is dedicated to a Polished Pearl.
(John Knight - Cool Colchester - 23 January 2010)
1.
FROM thine, as then, the healing virtue goes
Into our hearts-that is the Father's plan.
From heart to heart it sinks, it steals, it flows,
From these that know thee still infecting those.
Here is my heart-from thine, Lord, fill it up,
That I may offer it as the holy cup
Of thy communion to my every man.
2.
When thou dost send out whirlwinds on thy seas,
Alternatest thy lightning with its roar,
Thy night with morning, and thy clouds with stars
Or, mightier force unseen in midst of these,
Orderest the life in every airy pore;
Guidest men's efforts, rul'st mishaps and jars,-
'Tis only for their hearts, and nothing more.
3.
This, this alone thy father careth for-
That men should live hearted throughout with thee-
Because the simple, only life thou art,
Of the very truth of living, the pure heart.
For this, deep waters whelm the fruitful lea,
Wars ravage, famine wastes, plague withers, nor
Shall cease till men have chosen the better part.
4.
But, like a virtuous medicine, self-diffused
Through all men's hearts thy love shall sink and float;
Till every feeling false, and thought unwise,
Selfish, and seeking, shall, sternly disused,
Wither, and die, and shrivel up to nought;
And Christ, whom they did hang 'twixt earth and skies,
Up in the inner world of men arise.
5.
Make me a fellow worker with thee, Christ;
Nought else befits a God-born energy;
Of all that's lovely, only lives the highest,
Lifing the rest that it shall never die.
Up I would be to help thee-for thou liest
Not, linen-swathed in Joseph's garden-tomb,
But walkest crowned, creation's heart and bloom.
6.
My God, when I would lift my heart to thee,
Imagination instantly doth set
A cloudy something, thin, and vast, and vague,
To stand for him who is the fact of me;
Then up the Will, and doth her weakness plague
To pay the heart her duty and her debt,
Showing the face that hearkeneth to the plea.
7.
And hence it comes that thou at times dost seem
To fade into an image of my mind;
I, dreamer, cover, hide thee up with dream,-
Thee, primal, individual entity!-
No likeness will I seek to frame or find,
But cry to that which thou dost choose to be,
To that which is my sight, therefore I cannot see.
8.
No likeness? Lo, the Christ! Oh, large Enough!
I see, yet fathom not the face he wore.
He is-and out of him there is no stuff
To make a man. Let fail me every spark
Of blissful vision on my pathway rough,
I have seen much, and trust the perfect more,
While to his feet my faith crosses the wayless dark.
9.
Faith is the human shadow of thy might.
Thou art the one self-perfect life, and we
Who trust thy life, therein join on to thee,
Taking our part in self-creating light.
To trust is to step forward out of the night-
To be-to share in the outgoing Will
That lives and is, because outgoing still.
10.
I am lost before thee, Father! yet I will
Claim of thee my birthright ineffable.
Thou lay'st it on me, son, to claim thee, sire;
To that which thou hast made me, I aspire;
To thee, the sun, upflames thy kindled fire.
No man presumes in that to which he was born;
Less than the gift to claim, would be the giver to scorn.
11.
Henceforth all things thy dealings are with me
For out of thee is nothing, or can be,
And all things are to draw us home to thee.
What matter that the knowers scoffing say,
'This is old folly, plain to the new day'?-
If thou be such as thou, and they as they,
Unto thy Let there be, they still must answer Nay.
12.
They will not, therefore cannot, do not know him.
Nothing they could know, could be God. In sooth,
Unto the true alone exists the truth.
They say well, saying Nature doth not show him:
Truly she shows not what she cannot show;
And they deny the thing they cannot know.
Who sees a glory, towards it will go.
13.
Faster no step moves God because the fool
Shouts to the universe God there is none;
The blindest man will not preach out the sun,
Though on his darkness he should found a school.
It may be, when he finds he is not dead,
Though world and body, sight and sound are fled,
Some eyes may open in his foolish head.
14.
When I am very weary with hard thought,
And yet the question burns and is not quenched,
My heart grows cool when to remembrance wrought
That thou who know'st the light-born answer sought
Know'st too the dark where the doubt lies entrenched-
Know'st with what seemings I am sore perplexed,
And that with thee I wait, nor needs my soul be vexed.
15.
Who sets himself not sternly to be good,
Is but a fool, who judgment of true things
Has none, however oft the claim renewed.
And he who thinks, in his great plenitude,
To right himself, and set his spirit free,
Without the might of higher communings,
Is foolish also-save he willed himself to be.
16.
How many helps thou giv'st to those would learn!
To some sore pain, to others a sinking heart;
To some a weariness worse than any smart;
To some a haunting, fearing, blind concern;
Madness to some; to some the shaking dart
Of hideous death still following as they turn;
To some a hunger that will not depart.
17.
To some thou giv'st a deep unrest-a scorn
Of all they are or see upon the earth;
A gaze, at dusky night and clearing morn,
As on a land of emptiness and dearth;
To some a bitter sorrow; to some the sting
Of love misprized-of sick abandoning;
To some a frozen heart, oh, worse than anything!
18.
To some a mocking demon, that doth set
The poor foiled will to scoff at the ideal,
But loathsome makes to them their life of jar.
The messengers of Satan think to mar,
But make-driving the soul from false to feal-
To thee, the reconciler, the one real,
In whom alone the would be and the is are met.
19.
Me thou hast given an infinite unrest,
A hunger-not at first after known good,
But something vague I knew not, and yet would-
The veiled Isis, thy will not understood;
A conscience tossing ever in my breast;
And something deeper, that will not be expressed,
Save as the Spirit thinking in the Spirit's brood.
20.
But now the Spirit and I are one in this-
My hunger now is after righteousness;
My spirit hopes in God to set me free
From the low self loathed of the higher me.
Great elder brother of my second birth,
Dear o'er all names but one, in heaven or earth,
Teach me all day to love eternally.
21.
Lo, Lord, thou know'st, I would not anything
That in the heart of God holds not its root;
Nor falsely deem there is any life at all
That doth in him nor sleep nor shine nor sing;
I know the plants that bear the noisome fruit
Of burning and of ashes and of gall-
From God's heart torn, rootless to man's they cling.
22.
Life-giving love rots to devouring fire;
Justice corrupts to despicable revenge;
Motherhood chokes in the dam's jealous mire;
Hunger for growth turns fluctuating change;
Love's anger grand grows spiteful human wrath,
Hunting men out of conscience' holy path;
And human kindness takes the tattler's range.
23.
Nothing can draw the heart of man but good;
Low good it is that draws him from the higher-
So evil-poison uncreate from food.
Never a foul thing, with temptation dire,
Tempts hellward force created to aspire,
But walks in wronged strength of imprisoned Truth,
Whose mantle also oft the Shame indu'th.
24.
Love in the prime not yet I understand-
Scarce know the love that loveth at first hand:
Help me my selfishness to scatter and scout;
Blow on me till my love loves burningly;
Then the great love will burn the mean self out,
And I, in glorious simplicity,
Living by love, shall love unspeakably.
25.
Oh, make my anger pure-let no worst wrong
Rouse in me the old niggard selfishness.
Give me thine indignation-which is love
Turned on the evil that would part love's throng;
Thy anger scathes because it needs must bless,
Gathering into union calm and strong
All things on earth, and under, and above.
26.
Make my forgiveness downright-such as I
Should perish if I did not have from thee;
I let the wrong go, withered up and dry,
Cursed with divine forgetfulness in me.
'Tis but self-pity, pleasant, mean, and sly,
Low whispering bids the paltry memory live:-
What am I brother for, but to forgive!
27.
'Thou art my father's child-come to my heart:'
Thus must I say, or Thou must say, 'Depart;'
Thus I would say-I would be as thou art;
Thus I must say, or still I work athwart
The absolute necessity and law
That dwells in me, and will me asunder draw,
If in obedience I leave any flaw.
28.
Lord, I forgive-and step in unto thee.
If I have enemies, Christ deal with them:
He hath forgiven me and Jerusalem.
Lord, set me from self-inspiration free,
And let me live and think from thee, not me-
Rather, from deepest me then think and feel,
At centre of thought's swift-revolving wheel.
29.
I sit o'ercanopied with Beauty's tent,
Through which flies many a golden-winged dove,
Well watched of Fancy's tender eyes up bent;
A hundred Powers wait on me, ministering;
A thousand treasures Art and Knowledge bring;
Will, Conscience, Reason tower the rest above;
But in the midst, alone, I gladness am and love.
30.
'Tis but a vision, Lord; I do not mean
That thus I am, or have one moment been-
'Tis but a picture hung upon my wall,
To measure dull contentment therewithal,
And know behind the human how I fall;-
A vision true, of what one day shall be,
When thou hast had thy very will with me.
O month whose promise and fulfilment blend,
And burst in one! it seems the earth can store
In all her roomy house no treasure more;
Of all her wealth no farthing have to spend
On fruit, when once this stintless flowering end.
And yet no tiniest flower shall fall before
It hath made ready at its hidden core
Its tithe of seed, which we may count and tend
Till harvest. Joy of blossomed love, for thee
Seems it no fairer thing can yet have birth?
No room is left for deeper ecstacy?
Watch well if seeds grow strong, to scatter free
Germs for thy future summers on the earth.
A joy which is but joy soon comes to dearth.
The tiny breeding frogs are singing in the roadside drain
And the magpie he pipes in the wind and the rain
And as shades of darkness roll across the sky
The foxes are barking on the hill nearby
In the chilly gloam of a gray Winter's day
The grey roos in the scrub they box as they play
And the calls of the birds known to some as weerloo
The big birds known to most as yellow tail black cockatoo,
A chilly evening in June ten weeks from the Spring
But the grey backed magpie is not shy to sing,
With it the gray fog carries a silent chill
As it slowly creeps across the old stony hill,
On a chilly evening not cold enough to snow
Harsh is the caw of the dark homing crow.
The very spirit of summer breathes to-day,
Here where I sun me in a dreamy mood,
And laps the sultry leas, and seems to brood
Tenderly o'er those hazed hills far away.
The air is fragrant with the new-mown hay,
And drowsed with hum of myriad flies pursued
By twittering martins. All yon hillside wood
Is drowned in sunshine till its green looks grey.
No scrap of cloud is in the still blue sky,
Vaporous with heat, from which the foreground trees
Stand out--each leaf cut sharp. The whetted scythe
Makes rustic music for me as I lie,
Watching the gambols of the children blythe,
Drinking the season's sweetness to the lees.
Ten o'clock: the broken moon
Hangs not yet a half hour high,
Yellow as a shield of brass,
In the dewy air of June,
Poised between the vaulted sky
And the ocean's liquid glass.
Earth lies in the shadow still;
Low black bushes, trees, and lawn
Night's ambrosial dews absorb;
Through the foliage creeps a thrill,
Whispering of yon spectral dawn
And the hidden climbing orb.
Higher, higher, gathering light,
Veiling with a golden gauze
All the trembling atmosphere,
See, the rayless disk grows white!
Hark, the glittering billows pause!
Faint, far sounds possess the ear.
Elves on such a night as this
Spin their rings upon the grass;
On the beach the water-fay
Greets her lover with a kiss;
Through the air swift spirits pass,
Laugh, caress, and float away.
Shut thy lids and thou shalt see
Angel faces wreathed with light,
Mystic forms long vanished hence.
Ah, too fine, too rare, they be
For the grosser mortal sight,
And they foil our waking sense.
Yet we feel them floating near,
Know that we are not alone,
Though our open eyes behold
Nothing save the moon's bright sphere,
In the vacant heavens shown,
And the ocean's path of gold.
After a Richter Concert.
In the long, sad time, when the sky was grey,
And the keen blast blew through the city drear,
When delight had fled from the night and the day,
My chill heart whispered, ' June will be here!
' June with its roses a-sway in the sun,
Its glory of green on mead and tree.'
Lo, now the sweet June-tide is nearly done,
June-tide, and never a joy for me
Is it so much of the gods that I pray?
Sure craved man never so slight a boon!
To be glad and glad in my heart one day-
One perfect day of the perfect June.
Sweet sounds to-night rose up, wave upon wave;
Sweet dreams were afloat in the balmy air.
This is the boon of the gods that I crave-
To be glad, as the music and night were fair.
For once, for one fleeting hour, to hold
The fair shape the music that rose and fell
Revealed and concealed like a veiling fold;
To catch for an instant the sweet June spell.
For once, for one hour, to catch and keep
The sweet June secret that mocks my heart;
Now lurking calm, like a thing asleep,
Now hither and thither with start and dart.
Then the sick, slow grief of the weary years,
The slow, sick grief and the sudden pain;
The long days of labour, the nights of tears-
No more these things would I hold in vain.
I would hold my life as a thing of worth;
Pour praise to the gods for a precious thing.
Lo, June in her fairness is on earth,
And never a joy does the niggard bring.
Vultures meander on their bikes
the gas station lights flicker
I walk with quickened pace and brawn
To escape their rapacious tongs' that glimmer
Obscenities chew centurion words
Bayonet looks from across the river
On asphalt roads of distant concrete
I escape to be their dinner
A week ago I had a fire
To warm my feet, my hands and face;
Cold winds, that never make a friend,
Crept in and out of every place.
Today the fields are rich in grass,
And buttercups in thousands grow;
I'll show the world where I have been--
With gold-dust seen on either shoe.
Till to my garden back I come,
Where bumble-bees for hours and hours
Sit on their soft, fat, velvet bums,
To wriggle out of hollow flowers.
When June comes dancing o'er the death of May,
With scarlet roses tinting her green breast,
And mating thrushes ushering in her day,
And Earth on tiptoe for her golden guest,
I always see the evening when we met--
The first of June baptized in tender rain--
And walked home through the wide streets, gleaming wet,
Arms locked, our warm flesh pulsing with love's pain.
I always see the cheerful little room,
And in the corner, fresh and white, the bed,
Sweet scented with a delicate perfume,
Wherein for one night only we were wed;
Where in the starlit stillness we lay mute,
And heard the whispering showers all night long,
And your brown burning body was a lute
Whereon my passion played his fevered song.
When June comes dancing o'er the death of May,
With scarlet roses staining her fair feet,
My soul takes leave of me to sing all day
A love so fugitive and so complete.
They wallowed for a stricken minute
More in the blood and mud
Helpless they tried to stand, gagging
Hauled by their wrists crawling to dry sand
These were the chosen for the day
Staggering from the killing ground
To the small pond of human excretion
They flopped and rubbed hands
Slashing the filth from their chins
Scrubbing it from knees and elbows
They sat another minute
Their hands and faces dripping
Nothing stirred but the stench of death
They knew it was their last minute,
An eerie requiem went up
As their skin peeled off so easily from their bone
Heaped now as one
The howling souls turned into vapor
The resident stench remained
It was common
The beast slept well this night
As the pile was the highest yet.
Daylight came too quickly
The stream of condemned
Shooed from their pens
Moving slowly, almost reluctantly
They stared with a sad look of relief
As calm after a long journey
No one could stop the babies from crying,
They would be first
The killing ground was silent
Nothing could be seen between the herd
It was very dark inside
Between the snortings and stompings
The hot breath slapped their faces
In their nostrils was an odor rank and fierce and primal
Suddenly with a rumble and a roar
The screaming agony of death
Tumbling backward, barking chins, dropping heads
Piles upon piles tripping against each other
Down they fell like leaves in wintry weather
To rest beyond the gate
As more would come
Peering out from the small opening in their pens
Their eyes blinking, sunken, adjusting to light
The pile became unglued
The rest remained lined up against the fence
They were next
They embraced the wires like long lost friends
Stammering and swaying, falling and crawling
The horde torn down, weak with relief
A faint prayer heard in Hebrew
They put their back to the fencepost
Hands held out
Slowly, dubiously
They came making a magic ring of prayer
Then closed it tight, heads bowed
They closed their eyes
Bracing and embracing each other
They bumped cheeks and noses gently
Touching faces
A minute passed
Deaf, blind, starving, dieing
They joined in hope and fear
The warm fur of their humanity
They stood guard over their last minute
Only a minute created together
A red raw sun chinned on the horizon
A new day dazzled for the beast
Lady! in this night of June
Fair like thee and holy,
Art thou gazing at the moon
That is rising slowly?
I am gazing on her now:
Something tells me, so art thou.
Night hath been when thou and I
Side by side were sitting,
Watching o'er the moonlit sky
Fleecy cloudlets flitting.
Close our hands were linkèd then;
When will they be linked again?
What to me the starlight still,
Or the moonbeams' splendour,
If I do not feel the thrill
Of thy fingers slender?
Summer nights in vain are clear,
If thy footstep be not near.
Roses slumbering in their sheaths
O'er my threshold clamber,
And the honeysuckle wreathes
Its translucent amber
Round the gables of my home:
How is it thou dost not come?
If thou camest, rose on rose
From its sleep would waken;
From each flower and leaf that blows
Spices would be shaken;
Floating down from star and tree,
Dreamy perfumes welcome thee.
I would lead thee where the leaves
In the moon-rays glisten;
And, where shadows fall in sheaves,
We would lean and listen
For the song of that sweet bird
That in April nights is heard.
And when weary lids would close,
And thy head was drooping,
Then, like dew that steeps the rose,
O'er thy languor stooping,
I would, till I woke a sigh,
Kiss thy sweet lips silently.
I would give thee all I own,
All thou hast would borrow;
I from thee would keep alone
Fear and doubt and sorrow.
All of tender that is mine,
Should most tenderly be thine.
Moonlight! into other skies,
I beseech thee wander.
Cruel, thus to mock mine eyes,
Idle, thus to squander
Love's own light on this dark spot;-
For my lady cometh not!
This print grays their mission like carbide.
Denim and cotton fall from shoulders,
enwrap legs in a fog of fatigue.
Miles under Grass Valley, they carved roads
& inhaled the breath of blind mules.  Went where consumptive
foremen said to go.  Fall with them now
a thousand feet to First Level, depend
on cable, hug a dinner-bucket to your chin, stand
bone-and-muscle close.  Smell dynamite
and manufactured air.  Meet my father, there
in a crevice of the mission, hard-hat tipped back,
alongside older men hard with rage and booze.
Seventeen: He shouldn’t have been hired.  North Star
needed backs and shoulders, the will to muck in space
too small to stand in.  The camera hires him.  The rest
is a sullen day crew.  Ghostly battalion: two hundred
acolytes of labor.  Gold was the Company
they kept in business.  They kept women in whorehouses.
Gold was a way to box with poverty.  And lose.
The camera situates faces between Wars, miners
wary between missions, shadows in history’s tunnel.
A caption floats: EMPIRE STAR MINES CO. LTD. FRED
W. NOBS, GENERAL MGR M.E. NEWLOVE SUPT.
GRASS VALLEY CALIF. JUNE 20 1938 DAY SHIFT
Get to work: They enter the cage of their lives, dropp into
work’s planet, excavate the 20th of June.  Their light
stays in that company pose.  They went down, set charges,
mucked detritus of Blast, loaded cars, stayed alive.
They went down into their granite time.
They mined their pulses in quartz veins.
Ask me no more where Jove bestows,
When June is past, the fading rose;
For in your beauty's orient deep
These flowers as in their causes, sleep.
Ask me no more whither doth stray
The golden atoms of the day;
For in pure love heaven did prepare
Those powders to enrich your hair.
Ask me no more whither doth haste
The nightingale when May is past;
For in your sweet dividing throat
She winters and keeps warm her note.
Ask me no more where those stars light
That downwards fall in dead of night;
For in your eyes they sit, and there,
Fixed become as in their sphere.
Ask me no more if east or west
The phœnix builds her spicy nest;
For unto you at last she flies,
And in your fragrant bosom dies.
In Scotland's realm, where trees are few
Nor even shrubs abound;
But where, however bleak the view
Some better things are found;
For husband there and wife may boast
Their union undefiled,
And false ones are as rare almost
As hedge-rows in the wild;
In Scotland's realm forlorn and bare
The history chanced of late,--
This history of a wedded pair,
A chaffinch and his mate,.
The spring drew near, each felt a breast
With genial instinct filled;
They paired, and would have built a nest,
But found not where to build.
The heaths uncovered and the moors
Except with snow and sleet,
Sea-beaten rocks and naked shores
Could yield them no retreat.
Long time a breeding-place they sought,
Till both grew vexed and tired;
At length a ship arriving brought
The good so long desired.
A ship? -- could such a restless thing
Afford them place of rest?
Or was the merchant charged to bring
The homeless birds a nest?
Hush! -- silent hearers profit most,--
This racer of the sea
Proved kinder to them than the coast,
It served them with a tree.
But such a tree! 'twas shaven deal,
The tree they call a mast,
And had a hollow with a wheel
Through which the tackle passed.
Within that cavity aloft
Their roofless home they fixed,
Formed with materials neat and soft,
Bents, wool, and feathers mixed.
Four ivory eggs soon pave its floor,
With russet specks bedight;
The vessel weighs, forsakes the shore,
And lessens to the sight.
The mother-bird is gone to sea,
As she had changed her kind;
But goes the male? Far wiser he
Is doubtless left behind.
No;-- soon as from ashore he saw
The winged mansion move,
He flew to reach it, by a law
Of never-failing love.
Then perching at his consort's side,
Was briskly borne along,
The billows and the blast defied,
And cheered her with a song.
The seaman with sincere delight
His feathered shipmates eyes,
Scarce less exulting in the sight
Than when he tows a prize.
For seamen much believe in signs,
And from a chance so new
Each some approaching good divines,
And may his hope be true!
Hail, honoured land! a desert where
Not even birds can hide,
Yet parent of this loving pair
Whom nothing could divide.
And ye who, rather than resign
Your matrimonial plan,
Were not afraid to plough the brine
In company with man;
For whose lean country much disdain
We English often show,
Yet from a richer nothing gain
But wantonness and woe;
Be it your fortune, year by year,
The same resource to prove,
And may ye, sometimes landing here,
Instruct us how to love!
Many years before
They had made a pact
On a Tuesday in June
That should they
Both be alone
On this particular Tuesday in June
They would meet
At the same Antique store
As she walked through the doorway
She was pleasantly surprised
To find
An antique...
Very much to her liking
Dee Daffodil (HW)  25 January,2007
The mourning doves run rife through the Mimosa
While a deluge of California sun beats down
Everywhere is getting acquainted with somewhere
While the bougainvillea leave their fingerprints all around;
Messengers are still a little invisible-
As many a blind eye might attest--
Windows of Springtime sunsets prevail
Surviving the mountains out west;
The in between of the seasons is nearing...
Awaiting in the trails- is the sizzling of June-
Bathing itself in warmth, a bit early, is May
Impatient for that perfect Summer Moon;
So here's to the Seasons of flowers and the shore
The woodlands and mountains so high
Spectators to the greenhouses of seasons & mighty sea
Welcoming all with a most longing sigh;
Two seasons dancing together...
Near to the riverbanks are the Pheasant and Quail
Past experience has truly taught us
That Sun and Blue Sky oft' times prevail;
By: Theodora Onken
May 15,2012
Today there is a gentleness tiding
Its way quietly into the bay,  June
Beach is strewn with visitor-white, trying
To bake brown. Cottonwool clouds will quite soon
In sea mist, try hiding the morning sun
Which is now climbing my half-shady shape
In surprising quick time.  I have begun
Distracting myself from shushing-foam wake
Behind lullaby wavelets,  replacing
Their crooning as sound from family droves
Drowns out all else. Lunch boxes are spaced
And runaway toddlers caught, then talk honed
Into quiet for munching. Shsh! !  breakers come
Once again,  whispering their own ocean fun.
Silence broken by a hushed converse
Breaking news of comma's reverse
Alien aura of tubes and stands
Silent heave swollen glands
Muffled giggle kids gleam
Gramps tries a silent beam
Hardly suit, infirm and sick
Elegant floor, ceramic slick
Fallen off a dizzying sledge
Ill at ease in a plastered leg
Distant bout of rasping cough
Chastised attendant off in a huff
Purple bruises of attempted drips
Stand out sharply from shiny clips
Divergent forms with baggy attires
Crouched nurse maneuvering wires
His quivering lips and shaking hands
How surreally fight the restraining band
Some blood be drawn for the endocrines
Whispered whoosh of support machines
A starched prong on the matron's head
Declining spinster, should have wed
(Islamabad)
(June 24,2009)
Centre justified the lines assume the shape of a flower vase…
….signifying hope!
Paper neatly folded by his coat
I by the hording with my tote
Subway met every Monday morn
Ealing to Cockfosters early dawn
he's chique, cool and up ramrod
slim at the mid, shoulders broad
smiling he warily dismisses dames
in brush of days are kindled flames
been that way for some time now
now past our regular hi-s and how
lurch an stagger, in thongy calf
nervous giggle leads to a laugh
welcome squeeze in morning rush
so often now he makes me blush
oft my hair blown in his face
golden strands he likes to trace
sizes me up then blows a kiss
coyly smile and  I foresee bliss
last he eyed and asked me, Yes?
Lingering on my shape in silky dress
Before I knew I nodded my head
Hardly anything after that said
Twirled my deck at a longish bell
he's so in a dash I can easily tell
Weak and trembling at the play
I've been a waiting for this day
candle flickers at swirl of his coat
stepped by his side to cross the moat
Thrusty push with a greedy grab
Muffled unh at the eager stab
Unnh, aaanhh, aahh and grrrrs
By downy moons sighs and purrs
Languid lie in his arms a while
slowly prances in so much style
stroking hair and lingering nip
sadly I watch him dress and zip
original
12 June 12
Islamabad
Your memory is pushed back in my mind always getting covered with here and now. Pushed back so far, where are you going? You were supposed to stay, to lay with me through night and day. You told me as I sat crying, you dying, lying in front of my face. The clock is racing around so slowly and you're going, going, gone. The con of it all you took my heart, It's mounted on a stone and I'm all alone. One second, two seconds, three seconds more, one memory is lost when the clock hits four. For so long now I have only waited, hated the thought that I can't find anyone better then you. You were perfect, I'm a wreck, your lips on my neck, a memory cold as ice. I roll the dice. Isn't it true that love is like gambling? If you could have gambled for your life, would you have? To die fast and painless or be with me forever, for so long? Time running, life cunning my every thought of you. I feel like I'm falling, crawling to get out of the huge hole that we both made to trap ourselves away from the world. Now it's nothing and you left me here deal, I feel the pain, the strain, my whole body's trying to recover from your absence. And yet I still find myself crying, dying, lying, that you are still here with me. But you're not.
Evening, and all the birds
In a chorus of shimmering sound
Are easing their hearts of joy
For miles around.
The air is blue and sweet,
The few first stars are white,--
Oh let me like the birds
Sing before night.
June, gentle June, of whom the crooners croon,
Sweet month of silk, of salmon, and the swoon;
June, what a chance you had—to be your best,
The fighting friend of Freedom in the West!
You could have said 'I'll give them placid seas,
Permitting nothing but an off-shore breeze;
Blue days for bombers on the Calais beat,
And not a cloud below three thousand feet;
Comfort for soldiers—safety for the tar:
May has her medals—June shall wear a Star!'
Instead, sweet June, how sadly you have sinned!
Henceforth, you little ****, your name is Wind,
Hail, Gale or Thunder, Cold or Cloud, or Sleet.
June, you're a quisling; June, you are a cheat.
If there is any trick you've left undone
That helps the enemy, pray tell me one?
And yet, in spite of your obscene display,
Oh, what a month—a winner all the way!
This is the song that History will croon:
'How we Defied the Traitor, General June!'
July 2,1944
When feares and sorrowes me besett,
Then did'st thou rid me out;
When heart did faint and spirits quail,
Thou comforts me about.
Thou rais'st him vp I feard to loose,
Regau'st me him again:
Distempers thou didst chase away;
With strenght didst him sustain.
My thankfull heart, with Pen record
The Goodnes of thy God;
Let thy obedience testefye
He taught thee by his rod.
And with his staffe did thee support,
That thou by both may'st learn;
And 'twixt the good and evill way,
At last, thou mig'st discern.
Praises to him who hath not left
My Soul as destitute;
Nor turnd his ear away from me,
But graunted hath my Suit.
Gothic façade on a rundown hut
Two hazel blinkers set in a nut..!
(Islamabad)
(June 24,2009)
O sylvan prophet! whose eternal fame
Echoes from Judah's hills and Jordan's stream;
The music of our numbers raise,
And tune our voices to thy praise.
A messenger from high Olympus came
To bear the tidings of thy life and name,
And told thy sire each prodigy
That Heaven designed to work in thee.
Hearing the news, and doubting in surprise,
His falt'ring speech in fettered accent dies;
But Providence, with happy choice,
In thee restored thy father's voice.
In the recess of Nature's dark abode,
Though still enclosed, yet knewest thou thy God;
Whilst each glad parent told and blessed
The secrets of each other's breast.
WHERE, girt around by savage foes,
Our nurturing Mother's shelter rose,
Behold, the lofty temple stands,
Reared by her children's grateful hands!
Firm are the pillars that defy
The volleyed thunders of the sky;
Sweet are the summer wreaths that twine
With bud and flower our martyrs' shrine.
The hues their tattered colors bore
Fall mingling on the sunlit floor
Till evening spreads her spangled pall,
And wraps in shade the storied hall.
Firm were their hearts in danger's hour,
Sweet was their manhood's morning flower,
Their hopes with rainbow hues were bright,--
How swiftly winged the sudden night!
O Mother! on thy marble page
Thy children read, from age to age,
The mighty word that upward leads
Through noble thought to nobler deeds.
TRUTH, heaven-born TRUTH, their fearless guide,
Thy saints have lived, thy heroes died;
Our love has reared their earthly shrine,
Their glory be forever thine!
If not for June,
My memories of Winter in December...
With a wish to witness,
The freshness of Spring March would bring...
Would not still remain so vivid.
As if only yesterday visited.
If not for June.
If not for June,
My eyesight would not be teased...
By the freedom felt in Summer,
With hopes that linger of those things I could do,
Under clear skies showing bright Sun.
And seeing the fun shared by nearly everyone,
If not for June.
And if not for June I would not be able to reminisce,
From so many experiences I could pick.
June seems to be the month I can do this.
With a thankfulness I am still in the midst,
Of a year that appears to have just begun.
With so much left to offer before it is done.
And for me this happens only when June comes.
International Day of Innocent Children Victims of Aggression,4 June
Furtively search for the hook.
Each side carefully must I look.
Is there a cop in my sight?
Is there a route for my flight?
Maggie just went that a way.
She didn't much, have to say.
But she seemed, distant taut.
Stuck are we in a Latino onslaught.
Three reefers all, she got the glock.
Wish I could turn back the clock.
We lost yank and tim that day.
Got em the cleavers on their way.
Now; I must, sell this grass.
Last time bro just nicked me glass.
Pounding heart, I must go.
Back here hitch the garbage stow.
Wish I could swirl and do the thwunk,
Like the kids, at high school dunk.
Pa left us months; for her sake.
Now mom is out, there at stake
Scar barged in, with her yesterday.
Slyly asked me, whether I'm gay.
Yanked me up by my scruff.
Mom when yelled, he left in a huff.
Wont have supper an no snack,
Messed the guy, tells me jack.
It's been months, the hacking cough.
Nothing at home but mamas snuff.
Li'l Johnnie plastered by a freight
What shall I do …I'm only eight!
(Islamabad)
(June 04,2009)
http: //www.acpp.org/sevents/0604.html
http: //www.irct.org/Default.aspx? ID=3558&M=News&NewsID=1391
In a late June dawn
first a solitary bird speaks, then a pair,
eventually scores with their insistent
tunes and unvarying rhythms. A pause.
And the sun's light streams
across the green language, shines
its blue light over us and them.
Another pause... By now, I'm
out of bed, stumbling in the direction
my body knows well enough to lean.
I drink first the light, then the air,
finally clear crystal water. This is
the purest moment of the rest. After it
dissolves into the lightness of time spent,
I must do my best to preserve purity.
(But I know you are already helping,
which is why I feel no fear...)
I stand alone on my balcony, watching
shapes appearing in the haze hovering
still in these early moments. I would
not discount any of the common features,
such as feisty squirrels, song birds,
invisible hawks and owls, shy deer, and
the occasional fox, sunning himself
as it to scoff at the restraint of others.
Hopefully, this will not become a day
I'll need to negotiate with myself
for every scrap of success. I prefer
those days the human element is subsumed
in the rest of it, animal, mineral, plant
and God. I do not mind the need to play
a role with consummate skill, to convince
my companion animals I am still one
with them. But please make the whole
of it effortless, like a dance so well
rehearsed it takes no effort to excel,
as if this dawn in late June opened
on a garden greeting us, with no trace
of subtle serpents or forbidden fruits.
On the hottest day in June
We both said I do!
I promise to love and cherish you
And make all your dreams come true
As long as we let God through
We will never come unglued
How could this be true?
The love I have for you
It’s as deep as the ocean blue.
It’s a circle that has no end
I promise to always be your friend
And love you till the end
Let’s dance under the moon
And kiss until noon
Because in June that’s when I declared my love for you
Jasmine and Jonquils In June
Bougainvilleas and Brides Are In Bloom
Also Roses and Ribbons In Rooms
Growing Standing Ovations Of Grooms
White Satin, Silk, Chantilly Lace
Soft Symbol Veils, Flowing Over Lady’s Face
As Long Trains and Butterflies Chase
Yet, In A Vision of Elegance and Grace
Slowly, She Moves Down The Aisle
Amid Garden Rows Of Sunshine Smiles
Been Waiting For The Season Awhile
But GOD’s Blessings and Bouquets:  Always In Style
As Expectant Hush, Fills Fragrant Room
For Exchanged Vows Of Brides and Grooms
And Their New Life About To Bloom
Like Jasmine and Jonquils In June
Written & ©:  5/1/10
By:    The  MoonBee
It's my birtday I've got an empty
stomach and the desire to be
lazy in the hammock and maybe
go for a cool swim on a hot day
with the trombone in Sinatra's
"I've Got You Under My Skin"
in my head and then to break for
lunch a corned-beef sandwich and Pepsi
with plenty of ice cubes unlike France
where they put one measly ice cube
in your expensive Coke and when
you ask for more they argue with
you they say this way you get more
Coke for the money showing they
completely misunderstand the nature of
American soft drinks which are an
excuse for ice cubes still I wouldn't
mind being there for a couple of
days Philip Larkin's attitude
toward China comes to mind when
asked if he'd like to go there he said
yes if he could return the same day
Who thinks of June's first rose today?
Only some child, perhaps, with shining eyes and
rough bright hair will reach it down.
In a green sunny lane, to us almost as far away
As are the fearless stars from these veiled lamps of town.
What's little June to a great broken world with eyes gone dim
From too much looking on the face of grief, the face of dread?
Or what's the broken world to June and him
Of the small eager hand, the shining eyes, the rough bright head?
What is it about the Abyss
that tempts the young poet to kiss
the air and head for the nearest cliff? This
unreasonable attachment to the bliss
of falling -- what accounts for it? Unlike the hiss
announcing a reptilian presence, the word Abyss
creates the object of our dread: it exists, it is,
widening like the gulf between whis-
key and wine, and we, drunk on neither, miss
the days when we, too, tumbled headlong out of heaven, pissed
The heat is mild this month of June
As I rest in shade near my home
While in silence, I heard a tune
Of a bird's song, this time of noon...
To me how sweet this lovely scene
A nature's grace, to most unseen
My feathered friends, true joy they bring
On this sunny, blithe month of spring
They seek and peck, and flap their wings
In quick glances, they eat and sing
They flew above, then play around
And hum their happy, chirping sound
It seems they knew, that I was there
As they flew near, for me to hear
I stood and gazed and hold my ground
And feel the beauty that abound
I think they call, each other's name
Maybe something about their games
Perhaps the food and other chores
Or their love mates, they can't ignore
But their life, was suddenly rouse
By a noise from a nearby house
They flew away, then out of sight
Left me enthralled, such a delight...
Alone again, and left behind
What had happened was kept in mind
As to what I felt, what I saw
In my writings, I have to show
To my beauty, worth lavish praise
Whom I love in so many ways
This poem about the birds that flew
Will be offered, again to you!
They had to bring them from the farms,
The rural soldiers far  from the storm
Those naïve lads deprived of books
Who obeyed their orders while sergeants looked;
Hayseeds who had never seen the city
Fixed bayonets without a dint of pity
And marched with fear within their eye
Not knowing that their leaders lied;
Who jumped down from their transport trucks
And formed their lines their eyes awestruck
Heads turned around at neon signs,
Colonel Sanders left them blind;
McDonalds with their great round eyes
Came to them a great surprise;
These rebels lived in paradise
With Coca Cola and pizza pie;
So they stormed the Square firing their guns,
And shot down Lincoln on the run;
Down went Washington and Jefferson
Wounded by soldeir/peasants guns;
James Madison stood up and tried to sing
But they clubbed him in the melee ring;
Their sergeant promised them Big Macs,
After they concluded their attack.
But remember the World War I song
And here the peasants sing along,
“How you gonna keep them down on the farm,
After they’ve had KFC.”
No two are identical though
they begin from the same
point in time the same point in
the dream when the radio shuts
itself off in the middle of
"Just in Time" (Sinatra version)
the curtains are blowing in
and the driver of the hearse
outside looks up and says "Room
for one more" and now you
know what kind of hospital you're in
and you must escape from it
by acting "normal" pretending there isn't
a conspiracy against you as Dead of Night
shifts into Shock Corridor
there are a dozen versions of this dream
I keep thinking of what Ashbery said
about escapism he said we need
all the escapism we can get
and even that isn't going to be enough
Out at Woodruff Place--afar
From the city's glare and jar,
With the leafy trees, instead
Of the awnings, overhead;
With the shadows cool and sweet,
For the fever of the street;
With the silence, like a prayer,
Breathing round us everywhere.
Gracious anchorage, at last,
From the billows of the vast
Tide of life that comes and goes,
Whence and where nobody knows--
Moving, like a skeptic's thought,
Out of nowhere into naught.
Touch and tame us with thy grace,
Placid calm of Woodruff Place!
Weave a wreath of beechen leaves
For the brow that throbs and grieves
O'er the ledger, bloody-lined,
'Neath the sun-struck window-blind!
Send the breath of woodland bloom
Through the sick man's prison room,
Till his old farm-home shall swim
Sweet in mind to hearten him!
Out at Woodruff Place the Muse
Dips her sandal in the dews,
Sacredly as night and dawn
Baptize lilied grove and lawn:
Woody path, or paven way--
She doth haunt them night and day,--
Sun or moonlight through the trees,
To her eyes, are melodies.
Swinging lanterns, twinkling clear
Through night-scenes, are songs to her--
Tinted lilts and choiring hues,
Blent with children's glad halloos;
Then belated lays that fade
Into midnight's serenade--
Vine-like words and zithern-strings
Twined through ali her slumberings.
Blessed be each hearthstone set
Neighboring the violet!
Blessed every rooftree prayed
Over by the beech's shadel
Blessed doorway, opening where
We may look on Nature--there
Hand to hand and face to face--
Storied realm, or Woodruff Place.
Walking down the lone street
Romancing the June rain
I met him for the first time
Call it chance or destiny
It was raining Love
First time when we kissed
We danced in the June rain
Got lost in its rhythm
I walked down the aisle
He took my hand forever
June showered her blessings
How we loved the June rain!
June is back once again
Rain and romance everywhere
Alone I sit, beside his grave
Rain pouring down my eyes
Call it Author's Tradition, but since I penned
the below work in early June of 2007 & I have
reposted it each year since 2010.In mid June of
2007, it debuted in the main PH Top 500 Poems List
(before there was a Members Only List) , at No.364
Two weeks later it broke the Top 100 & remained
there until the Spring of 2010, when I decided to
revise several areas of the work & repost it fresh.
The work is a 7 time award winner, and seems to be
a fairly steadfast favorite on numerous sites, as
well as local poetry clubs in my community.
Anyway, June hath commeth again, and thus, so
has the below work been posted...AGAIN!
Hope you enjoy...FjR
______________________________________
JUNE...JUNE...JUNE...JUNE...
This is for June n' all the Summers it brings
Wind chasing bells of a Church steeples ring
Ole' songs of wedlock over top hat, an' lace
'fore June passes torch...to July's scarlet face
Grown trees, full jackets of multi-hue green
The last pink magnolia leaf still can be seen
There's a breeze on air that carries the scent
Of sweet honeysuckle......fresh efflorescence
Night casts its chill, yet June has its motive
A bright ardent globe... a lovers sweet votive
Moonlight romance, 'beneath a nautical breeze
Makes love in June dance like starshine on sea
FjR-MMVII
Frank James Ryan Jr (FjR)
Your voice, with clear location of June days,
Called me outside the window.You were there,
Light yet composed, as in the just soft stare
Of uncontested summer all things raise
Plainly their seeming into seamless air.
Then your love looked as simple and entire
As that picked pear you tossed me, and your face
As legible as pearskin's fleck and trace,
Which promise always wine, by mottled fire
More fatal fleshed than ever human grace.
And your gay gift—Oh when I saw it fall
Into my hands, through all that naïve light,
It seemed as blessed with truth and new delight
As must have been the first great gift of all.
OH Earth, you are too dear to-night,
How can I sleep while all around
Floats rainy fragrance and the far
Deep voice of the ocean that talks to the ground?
Oh Earth, you gave me all I have,
I love you, I love you,—oh what have I
That I can give you in return—
Except my body after I die?
In summer, when day has fled, the plain covered with flowers
Pours out far away an intoxicating scent;
Eyes shut, ears half open to noises,
We only half sleep in a transparent slumber.
The stars are purer, the shade seems pleasanter;
A hazy half-day colours the eternal dome;
And the sweet pale dawn awaiting her hour
Seems to wander all night at the bottom of the sky.
O dwellers in the stately towns,
What come ye out to see?
This common earth, this common sky,
This water flowing free?
As gayly as these kalmia flowers
Your door-yard blossoms spring;
As sweetly as these wild-wood birds
Your caged minstrels sing.
You find but common bloom and green,
The rippling river's rune,
The beauty which is everywhere
Beneath the skies of June;
The Hawkswood oaks, the storm-torn plumes
Of old pine-forest kings,
Beneath whose century-woven shade
Deer Island's mistress sings.
And here are pictured Artichoke,
And Curson's bowery mill;
And Pleasant Valley smiles between
The river and the hill.
You know full well these banks of bloom,
The upland's wavy line,
And how the sunshine tips with fire
The needles of the pine.
Yet, like some old remembered psalm,
Or sweet, familiar face,
Not less because of commonness
You love the day and place.
And not in vain in this soft air
Shall hard-strung nerves relax,
Not all in vain the o'erworn brain
Forego its daily tax.
The lust of power, the greed of gain
Have all the year their own;
The haunting demons well may let
Our one bright day alone.
Unheeded let the newsboy call,
Aside the ledger lay
The world will keep its treadmill step
Though we fall out to-day.
The truants of life's weary school,
Without excuse from thrift
We change for once the gains of toil
For God's unpurchased gift.
From ceiled rooms, from silent books,
From crowded car and town,
Dear Mother Earth, upon thy lap,
We lay our tired heads down.
Cool, summer wind, our heated brows;
Blue river, through the green
Of clustering pines, refresh the eyes
Which all too much have seen.
For us these pleasant woodland ways
Are thronged with memories old,
Have felt the grasp of friendly hands
And heard love's story told.
A sacred presence overbroods
The earth whereon we meet;
These winding forest-paths are trod
By more than mortal feet.
Old friends called from us by the voice
Which they alone could hear,
From mystery to mystery,
From life to life, draw near.
More closely for the sake of them
Each other's hands we press;
Our voices take from them a tone
Of deeper tenderness.
Our joy is theirs, their trust is ours,
Alike below, above,
Or here or there, about us fold
The arms of one great love!
We ask to-day no countersign,
No party names we own;
Unlabelled, individual,
We bring ourselves alone.
What cares the unconventioned wood
For pass-words of the town?
The sound of fashion's shibboleth
The laughing waters drown.
Here cant forgets his dreary tone,
And care his face forlorn;
The liberal air and sunshine laugh
The bigot's zeal to scorn.
From manhood's weary shoulder falls
His load of selfish cares;
And woman takes her rights as flowers
And brooks and birds take theirs.
The license of the happy woods,
The brook's release are ours;
The freedom of the unshamed wind
Among the glad-eyed flowers.
Yet here no evil thought finds place,
Nor foot profane comes in;
Our grove, like that of Samothrace,
Is set apart from sin.
We walk on holy ground; above
A sky more holy smiles;
The chant of the beatitudes
Swells down these leafy aisles.
Thanks to the gracious Providence
That brings us here once more;
For memories of the good behind
And hopes of good before.
And if, unknown to us, sweet days
Of June like this must come,
Unseen of us these laurels clothe
The river-banks with bloom;
And these green paths must soon be trod
By other feet than ours,
Full long may annual pilgrims come
To keep the Feast of Flowers;
The matron be a girl once more,
The bearded man a boy,
And we, in heaven's eternal June,
Be glad for earthly joy!
Last June I saw your face three times;
Three times I touched your hand;
Now, as before, May month is o'er,
And June is in the land.
O many Junes shall come and go,
Flow'r-footed o'er the mead;
O many Junes for me, to whom
Is length of days decreed.
There shall be sunlight, scent of rose;
Warm mist of summer rain;
Only this change--I shall not look
Upon your face again.
Long, long ago, it seems, this summer morn
That pale-browed April passed with pensive tread
Through the frore woods, and from its frost-bound bed
Woke the arbutus with her silver horn;
And now May, too, is fled,
The flower-crowned month, the merry laughing May,
With rosy feet and fingers dewy wet,
Leaving the woods and all cool gardens gay
With tulips and the scented violet.
Gone are the wind-flower and the adder-tongue
And the sad drooping bellwort, and no more
The snowy trilliums crowd the forest's floor;
The purpling grasses are no longer young,
And summer's wide-set door
O'er the thronged hills and the broad panting earth
Lets in the torrent of the later bloom,
Haytime, and harvest, and the after mirth,
The slow soft rain, the rushing thunder plume.
All day in garden alleys moist and dim,
The humid air is burdened with the rose;
In moss-deep woods the creamy orchid blows;
And now the vesper-sparrows' pealing hymn
From every orchard close
At eve comes flooding rich and silvery;
The daisies in great meadows swing and shine;
And with the wind a sound as of the sea
Roars in the maples and the topmost pine.
High in the hills the solitary thrush
Tunes magically his music of fine dreams,
In briary dells, by boulder-broken streams;
And wide and far on nebulous fields aflush
The mellow morning gleams.
The orange cone-flowers purple-bossed are there,
The meadow's bold-eyed gypsies deep of hue,
And slender hawkweed tall and softly fair,
And rosy tops of fleabane veiled with dew.
So with thronged voices and unhasting flight
The fervid hours with long return go by;
The far-heard hylas piping shrill and high
Tell the slow moments of the solemn night
With unremitting cry;
Lustrous and large out of the gathering drouth
The planets gleam; the baleful Scorpion
Trails his dim fires along the droused south;
The silent world-incrusted round moves on.
And all the dim night long the moon's white beams
Nestle deep down in every brooding tree,
And sleeping birds, touched with a silly glee,
Waken at midnight from their blissful dreams,
And carol brokenly.
Dim surging motions and uneasy dreads
Scare the light slumber from men's busy eyes,
And parted lovers on their restless beds
Toss and yearn out, and cannot sleep for sighs.
Oft have I striven, sweet month, to figure thee,
As dreamers of old time were wont to feign,
In living form of flesh, and striven in vain;
Yet when some sudden old-world mystery
Of passion fired my brain,
Thy shape hath flashed upon me like no dream,
Wandering with scented curls that heaped the breeze,
Or by the hollow of some reeded stream
Sitting waist-deep in white anemones;
And even as I glimpsed thee thou wert gone,
A dream for mortal eyes too proudly coy,
Yet in thy place for subtle thought's employ
The golden magic clung, a light that shone
And filled me with thy joy.
Before me like a mist that streamed and fell
All names and shapes of antique beauty passed
In garlanded procession with the swell
Of flutes between the beechen stems; and last,
I saw the Arcadian valley, the loved wood,
Alpheus stream divine, the sighing shore,
And through the cool green glades, awake once more,
Psyche, the white-limbed goddess, still pursued,
Fleet-footed as of yore,
The noonday ringing with her frighted peals,
Down the bright sward and through the reeds she ran,
Urged by the mountain echoes, at her heels
The hot-blown cheeks and trampling feet of Pan.
Paula is digging and shaping the loam of a salvia,
Scarlet Chinese talker of summer.
Two petals of crabapple blossom blow fallen in Paula's
hair,
And fluff of white from a cottonwood.
June burst forth with sunshine blest
Buds awakening on the stem of trees
Life awakens like a treasure chest
And butterflies flutter in the breeze.
Cygnets follow in line astern their mother,
And other ducks swim along with pride
Ducklings bobbing in the water, one behind the other
In shimmering lakes and rivers country-wide.
Weeping willows gracefully kiss the water’s edge
Their leaves blowing gently in the wind
Gaggling geese chatting as they sit on the ledge
And the old man sitting on a bench just grinned.
Dog walkers with their pets strolling on the grass,
Mum’s with babe’s in pushchairs following on behind,
Joggers running round and round trying hard to pass.
All enjoying the June sunshine away from the daily grind.
The blue forest, chilled and blue, like the lips of the dead
if the lips were gone. The year has been cut in half
with dull scissors, the solstice still looking for its square
on the calendar. Perhaps the scissors were really
lawn mowers or hoes. Perhaps God's calendar is Chinese.
As first I didn't understand those burlap dolls
slouched in Central Pennsylvania craft stores.
Where were the button eyes, the tiny pearl nostrils?
the smudgy pink watercolor cheeks?
I enter the woods--part Gretel, part Little Red.
Such a small patch of sun makes it to the ground
through the leaves. The tree trunks are all elbows and knees,
all arthritis and gripes. The Amish think it's wrong
to render nature, quilts abstracting each pattern's name
of tree, buggy, corn, horse, farm.
My uncle, not Amish but superstitious, holds his palm
to the camera in a Christmas photo. Before she died
my grandmother ripped up all the pictures of herself.
She liked a novel with mystery, magazines without nudity.
The boy was killed by a drunk driver. My Amish neighbors
forgive. I prefer seeing it all, the snot, the optical nerve, the liver
behind the belly's skin. I prefer a good fight,
a wailing of grief. The Farmers' Market sells apples
as red as tricycles. The dolls without faces
want it silent. The forest, all anger and yesterday,
newspapers blank as white cotton sheets.
the branches, the teeth, the awful vees.
Broom out the floor now, lay the fender by,
And plant this bee-sucked bough of woodbine there,
And let the window down. The butterfly
Floats in upon the sunbeam, and the fair
Tanned face of June, the nomad gipsy, laughs
Above her widespread wares, the while she tells
The farmers' fortunes in the fields, and quaffs
The water from the spider-peopled wells.
The hedges are all drowned in green grass seas,
And bobbing poppies flare like Elmo's light,
While siren-like the pollen-staind bees
Drone in the clover depths. And up the height
The cuckoo's voice is hoarse and broke with joy.
And on the lowland crops the crows make raid,
Nor fear the clappers of the farmer's boy,
Who sleeps, like drunken Noah, in the shad
And loop this red rose in that hazel ring
That snares your little ear, for June is short
And we must joy in it and dance and sing,
And from her bounty draw her rosy worth.
Ay! soon the swallows will be flying south,
The wind wheel north to gather in the snow,
Even the roses spilt on youth's red mouth
Will soon blow down the road all roses go.
July left desolation,
modes of transfiguration,
skin to metal parts.
Abandonned knight in armor,
he stood silently waiting,
just on his guard.
t'was valour without honour:
his hands carefully weighing
his broken heart.
August heat came and passed
stirring a renewed craving
for love left scarred.
Alpine mountain views and fast
cool crystal water, life saving,
rejoined love's shards.
But bolts and iron body cask
bitter battle flags waving
kept his mind barred.
September sent winds of Fall,
an indian summer raining,
washed th' pain away
Mist and the early birds' call
gloves and metal joints straining
wore new words to say.
Life force avoiding to stall,
Imagination painting,
what hope for love may.
October brought first relief,
a freedom most disarming,
helmet taken off.
Away the chainmail of grief,
towards a future charming
by a road still rough.
Mindfull of harmless mischief,
but a heart heeding warning
of misreading love.
Now at last November came
From coma awakened flame
burning brighter ev'ry noon.
A knight undressed without shame
asserting on a life a claim
and... awaiting June.
(Utrecht, the Netherlands / 11-23-08)
O crimson-hearted, flower-producing June-
Dear month of love, and laughter, and light song!
Wherein our mother brings her choral throng
To hymn the hymns that sweetest are in tune:
Wherein all gaily goes gave soul of wrong
That takes to bed quite blinded by the light
Of that sweet, sober, gentle queen of night
That rules the tides of earth and men-the moon;
I love you! for it was beneath your skies
I first looked Love into her starry eyes;
I love you! for beneath your dome of blue
I heard her answer-'And I love you too!'
I hate you!-'mid your flowers it was my lot
To hear those same lips say-'I love you not!'
'Glemt er nu Vaarens Kamp og Vinter-Sorgen,
Til Glæde sig forvandler hvert et Suk.
Skjøn som en Brud, den anden Bryllups-Morgen,
Ei længer Barn, og dog saa ung og smuk,
Den skjønne Junimaaned til os kommer;
Det er Skærsommer! -
*
De høie Popler hæve sig saa slanke,
I Hyldetræet qviddrer Fuglen smukt.
Paa Gjærdet groer den grønne Humle-Ranke,
Og Æble-Blomstret former sig til Frugt.
Den varme Sommerluft fra Skyen strømmer,
Sødt Hjertet drømmer!
Paa Engen slaae de Græs; hør, Leen klinger.
Paa Himlen smukke Sommerskyer staae.
Og Kløvermarken Røgelse os svinger,
Mens høit i Choret alle Lærker slaae.
- Med Vandringsstav hist Ungersvenden kommer
Hjem i Skærsommer.
Ungersvenden.
Alt jeg Kirketaarnet øiner,
Spiret kneiser stolt derpaa.
Og hvor Marken hist sig høiner,
End de fire Pile staae.
Her er Skoven. Store Rødder
Før af Træerne der laae.
Her, som Dreng, jeg plukked' Nødder,
Og trak Jordbær paa et Straa!
- Barndoms Minder mig besjæle!
Jeg vil flyve, jeg vil dvæle!
Grønne Skov, min Barndoms Ven,
Kan Du kjende mig igjen?
Grønne Hæk, du brune Stamme,
Jeg, som før, er end den samme,
Har vel seet og hørt lidt meer,
Ellers Du den Samme seer! -
Her er Pladsen end med Vedet,
Godt jeg kjender Parken der!
Her er Stenten tæt ved Ledet,
Gud, hvor lille den dog er!
Alt jeg kjender her saa godt,
Men det er saa nært, saa smaat -
Det var stort, da jeg var liden,
Jeg er bleven større siden! -
- Lille Fugl paa grønne Qvist,
Saae Du mig derude hist,
Naar jeg stundom sorgfuld sad?
Seer Du nu - - nu er jeg glad!
Var der ude Himlen graae
Hjemmet bar jeg i min Tanke,
Hjemmet jeg i Solskin saae,
Derfor maatte Hjertet banke.
- Moder er vist ældet lidt,
Jeg har tænkt paa Dig saa tidt.
Fader! fuld af Kraft og Mod! -
Gode Gud, Du er saa god.
Jeg kan ei min Glæde bære,
Din jeg er, Din vil jeg være! -
- Jeg i Sjælen er saa glad,
Kysse maa jeg Blomst og Blad;
Glemt er Længsel, Suk og Vee,
Gamle Venner skal jeg see,
Og den smaa Marie-Moer -
Ja, nu er hun bleven stor! -
- O, med hvilken Lyst og Gammen
Har vi to dog leget sammen!
Mit Theater var ei stort,
Men jeg havde selv det gjort.
O, jeg har det grant i Minde.
Jeg forglemmer ingensinde
Mine smaa Marionetter,
O, med Guld og Paillietter,
Hun besyed' een og hver.
Store Stykker gav' vi der.
Blanka, Hakon Jarl, saa net,
Selv Rolf Blaaskjæg, som Ballet.
Hvis ei andre saae derpaa,
Altid Bedstemoder saae;
Og om der var allerflest,
Hun dog klapped allermeest! -
Hende skal jeg ikke see,
O, det gjør mit Hjerte Vee!
Afskeds-Kysset hun mig gav, -
Græs nu groer paa hendes Grav.
O jeg kunde næsten græde!
- Nei! Du lever - seer min Glæde
Lever! lever! mig omsvæver!
Tanken Du til Himlen hæver.
Det er Aarets bedste Dag!
Alt jeg skuer Hjemmets Tag!
Her ved Poppelpilens Rod,
I den kolde Vinter-Scene,
Var det jo min Sneemand stod,
Pyntet ud med Kul og Stene.
Her er Bækken, reen og klar,
Den min Sommer-Snekke bar!
Her staaer Haugen, sommergrøn - -
Moder, see - her er Din Søn!
Moder! kjender Du min Stemme!
O, nu er jeg atter hjemme!
*
Sønnen hviler ved sin Moders Bryst,
Faderen ham kysser glad, men stille;
Hunden logrer ved hans Fod med Lyst,
Og de store brune Øine spille.
'See, Marie! vi ham har igjen -'
Jubler høit den lykkelige Moder;
Pigen rødmer, rækker Haanden hen
Til den kjære, kjære Legebroder.
'Han er voxet i de sidste Aar!
Kom! paa Døren end hans Mærke staaer.
Eduard! o! Gud har hørt min Bøn;
Seer Du Fader, han er bleven kjøn?
Er saa god - ja! ja! jeg veed det nøie.
Jeg maa kysse ham paa Mund og Øie!
- Kjender Dagligstuen Du igjen?
Men Du er vist træt? Sæt Dig dog hen!
Seer Du, hvad der staaer paa mit Klaveer?
(O, den søde Dreng! nei see, han leer)!
Dit Theater, dine Dukker smaae -
Ja, det har Marie fundet paa, -'
Saadan gaaer det fort, glad Hjertet banker,
Kun Marie falder hen i Tanker. -
- Nu vi dem i Spisestuen see.
Dækketøiet skinner som en Snee,
Sommersolen mildt fra Ruden straaler,
Jordbær dufte fra crystalne Skaaler;
Kun de bedste har Marie bragt;
Og paa Bordet smukt en Krands er lagt,
Friske Blomster der i Vasen prange,
Medens Lærken synger Velkomst-Sange.
*
Det er ud paa Aftnen snart,
Men endnu det er saa klart.
Solen synker hist bag Byen,
Ild og Roser staae paa Skyen;
Høet dufter sødt paa Marken,
Og hist henne over Parken
Dandse Myggene i Ring,
Medens Blomster rundt omkring
See til Maanen, som nu kommer
I den deilige Skærsommer!
Hør, fra Skovens dunkle Sal
Fløiter smukt en Nattergal.
Hvem gaaer hist i Haugen ene
Under Æbletræets Grene? -
Kjolen sig ved Hækken hæfter -
Tys, der kommer Nogen efter!
Pigen rødmer der og standser,
Mens det sidste Blomsterblad,
Som endnu paa Træet sad,
Falder ned og Lokken Krandser;
Træet pynter hende ud,
Som det tænkte, hun var Brud.
Eduard.
Er det Dig, som gaaer og spøger?
Marie.
Nei, om Stikkelsbær jeg søger,
Om de største jeg kan faae.
Mange Stedmo'ers-Blomster staae
I Salaten her saa net;
Jeg har plukket en Bouqvet,
Maa jeg Blomsterne Dig byde?
Eduard.
Veed Du vel, hvad de betyde?
Blomstersproget, kan jeg troe,
Kjender Du til Punkt og Prikke.
Marie.
Nei saa lærd, det er jeg ikke.
- Er det noget godt?
Eduard.
Ih jo!
Vel for mig, men
(spøgende)
Dig? - desværre!
Giv dog aldrig nogen Herre
Slige Blomster, Gud bevar' os!
Tænk Dig, hvis det galt forklares;
Jo, der har Du handlet net!
Marie.
Nu, saa giv mig min Bouqvet!
Eduard.
Nei, see kun, hvor rød Du bliver!
- Jeg den ene Blomst dig giver,
Resten faaer Du ikke meer,
Skjøndt Du saa alvorligt seer.
Lad nu Bærrene kun være,
Vi har talt saa grumme lidt!
Marie.
Skal jeg Blomstersproget lære?
Nu er det jo saa forslidt!
Eduard.
Naa, hvor Du seer ud i Haaret!
Grenen paa Toupeen slaer.
Har Du hele Dagen baaret
Æbleblomster i dit Haar?
Marie (spøgende).
Hjertet faaer kun Spot og Trængsel;
See, det har man for sin Længsel,
Nu, han er her, gjør han Nar.
Eduard.
Efter mig Du længtes har!
O, saa tidt mit Hjertes Stemme
Kaldte mig til Dig her hjemme.
Du har ofte tænkt paa mig?
O, jeg holder ret af Dig!
Men Du skrev saa korte Breve!
Tidt kun, naar de andre skreve,
Jeg fra Dig, det var Din Skik,
Bare Efterskriften fik.
Jeg mig maatte forestille,
At Du endnu var den Lille,
Og saa er Du nu saa stor! -
O, Marie, lad os vandre
Her i Haven med hverandre.
Hvert et Træ, som her jo groer
Kjender jeg fra gamle Dage.
Marie.
Gud skee Lov, Du kom tilbage!
Du er dog min kjære Broder! -
- Skal vi nu gaae op til Moder?
Eduard.
Lad mig see Dig i dit Øie!
Hvert et Træk jeg kjender nøie.
Ældre, mere smuk Du staaer,
Og dog, som for otte Aar! -
Marie.
- Skal vi nu gaae op til Moder? -
Eduard.
(kysser hende paa Panden).
Det tør jeg jo nok - som Broder.
En lille Fugl (i Træet).
Hjertet maa af Elskov slaae
Baade Nat og lyse Dage!
Kjærlighed jeg synge maa,
Har dog ingen Mage!
Glade To i Havens Gang,
Jeg til Eder kommer,
Synger Eders Bryllups-Sang
Næste Aars Skærsommer!
Ja Skærsommer skal det staae,
Den har smukke Dage!
- Kjærlighed jeg synge maa,
Har dog ingen Mage!
Queenly month of indolent repose!
I drink thy breath in sips of rare perfume,
As in thy downy lap of clover-bloom
I nestle like a drowsy child and doze
The lazy hours away. The zephyr throws
The shifting shuttle of the Summer's loom
And weaves a damask-work of gleam and gloom
Before thy listless feet. The lily blows
A bugle-call of fragrance o'er the glade;
And, wheeling into ranks, with plume and spear,
Thy harvest-armies gather on parade;
While, faint and far away, yet pure and clear,
A voice calls out of alien lands of shade:--
All hail the Peerless Goddess of the Year!
'Now summer is in flower and natures hum
Is never silent round her sultry bloom
Insects as small as dust are never done
Wi' glittering dance and reeling in the sun
And green wood fly and blossom haunting bee
Are never weary of their melody
Round field hedge now flowers in full glory twine
Large bindweed bells wild hop and streakd woodbine
That lift athirst their slender throated flowers
Agape for dew falls and for honey showers
These round each bush in sweet disorder run
And spread their wild hues to the sultry sun.'
I gazed upon the glorious sky
And the green mountains round,
And thought that when I came to lie
At rest within the ground,
"Twere pleasant, that in flowery June,
When brooks send up a cheerful tune,
And groves a joyous sound,
The sexton's hand, my grave to make,
The rich, green mountain-turf should break.
A cell within the frozen mould,
A coffin borne through sleet,
And icy clods above it rolled,
While fierce the tempests beat--
Away!--I will not think of these--
Blue be the sky and soft the breeze,
Earth green beneath the feet,
And be the damp mould gently pressed
Into my narrow place of rest.
There through the long, long summer hours,
The golden light should lie,
And thick young herbs and groups of flowers
Stand in their beauty by.
The oriole should build and tell
His love-tale close beside my cell;
The idle butterfly
Should rest him there, and there be heard
The housewife bee and humming-bird.
And what if cheerful shouts at noon
Come, from the village sent,
Or songs of maids, beneath the moon
With fairy laughter blent?
And what if, in the evening light,
Betrothed lovers walk in sight
Of my low monument?
I would the lovely scene around
Might know no sadder sight nor sound.
I know that I no more should see
The season's glorious show,
Nor would its brightness shine for me,
Nor its wild music flow;
But if, around my place of sleep,
The friends I love should come to weep,
They might not haste to go.
Soft airs, and song, and light, and bloom
Should keep them lingering by my tomb.
These to their softened hearts should bear
The thought of what has been,
And speak of one who cannot share
The gladness of the scene;
Whose part, in all the pomp that fills
The circuit of the summer hills,
Is that his grave is green;
And deeply would their hearts rejoice
To hear again his living voice.
The birds' shrill fluting
Beats on the pink blind,
Pierces the pink blind
At whose edge fumble the sun's
Fingers till one obtrudes
And stirs the thick motes.
The room is a close box of pink warmth.
The minutes click.
A man picks across the street
With a metal-pointed stick.
Three clocks drop each twelve pennies
On the drom of noon.
The birds end.
A child's cry pricks the hush.
The wind plucks at a leaf.
The birds rebegin.
Submitted by Stephen Fryer
If I didn’t mark this day in passing
if I didn’t make this date a part of
solid History I’d fail – a day to fix in
memory and memory will prevail
June thirteenth, Gemini of Mercury
an element of Air – where hunger
for awareness rests, your love
therein is seen a proper reckoning
Measure of your length and breadth
despairs dimensions of your ardent
heart – cathedral blessed, especially
in loving – sets your warmth apart
I know and love your being as a
comforting, liberty from loneliness
of empty rooms, a candle light of
passage gleam safely leading home
Blessed I am to know you well for all
these humble years, your inspiration
wills me write of you – and I shall ‘til
Lethe waters still my trembling hand
© 8 June 2009, I. D. Carswell
The Junes were free and full, driving through tiny
Roads, the mudguards brushing the cowparsley,
Through fields of mustard and under boldly embattled
Mays and chestnuts
Or between beeches verdurous and voluptuous
Or where broom and gorse beflagged the chalkland--
All the flare and gusto of the unenduring
Joys of a season
Now returned but I note as more appropriate
To the maturer mood impending thunder
With an indigo sky and the garden hushed except for
The treetops moving.
Then the curtains in my room blow suddenly inward,
The shrubbery rustles, birds fly heavily homeward,
The white flowers fade to nothing on the trees and rain comes
Down like a dropscene.
Now there comes catharsis, the cleansing downpour
Breaking the blossoms of our overdated fancies
Our old sentimentality and whimsicality
Loves of the morning.
Blackness at half-past eight, the night's precursor,
Clouds like falling masonry and lightning's lavish
Annunciation, the sword of the mad archangel
Flashed from the scabbard.
If only you would come and dare the crystal
Rampart of the rain and the bottomless moat of thunder,
If only now you would come I should be happy
Now if now only.
Tell you what I like the best --
'Long about knee-deep in June,
'Bout the time strawberries melts
On the vine, -- some afternoon
Like to jes' git out and rest,
And not work at nothin' else!
Orchard's where I'd ruther be --
Needn't fence it in fer me! --
Jes' the whole sky overhead,
And the whole airth underneath --
Sort o' so's a man kin breathe
Like he ort, and kind o' has
Elbow-room to keerlessly
Sprawl out len'thways on the grass
Where the shadders thick and soft
As the kivvers on the bed
Mother fixes in the loft
Allus, when they's company!
Jes' a-sort o' lazin there -
S'lazy, 'at you peek and peer
Through the wavin' leaves above,
Like a feller 'ats in love
And don't know it, ner don't keer!
Ever'thing you hear and see
Got some sort o' interest -
Maybe find a bluebird's nest
Tucked up there conveenently
Fer the boy 'at's ap' to be
Up some other apple tree!
Watch the swallers skootin' past
Bout as peert as you could ast;
Er the Bob-white raise and whiz
Where some other's whistle is.
Ketch a shadder down below,
And look up to find the crow --
Er a hawk, - away up there,
'Pearantly froze in the air! --
Hear the old hen squawk, and squat
Over ever' chick she's got,
Suddent-like! - and she knows where
That-air hawk is, well as you! --
You jes' bet yer life she do! --
Eyes a-glitterin' like glass,
Waitin' till he makes a pass!
Pee-wees wingin', to express
My opinion, 's second-class,
Yit you'll hear 'em more er less;
Sapsucks gittin' down to biz,
Weedin' out the lonesomeness;
Mr. Bluejay, full o' sass,
In them baseball clothes o' his,
Sportin' round the orchad jes'
Like he owned the premises!
Sun out in the fields kin sizz,
But flat on yer back, I guess,
In the shade's where glory is!
That's jes' what I'd like to do
Stiddy fer a year er two!
Plague! Ef they ain't somepin' in
Work 'at kind o' goes ag'in'
My convictions! - 'long about
Here in June especially! --
Under some ole apple tree,
Jes' a-restin through and through,
I could git along without
Nothin' else at all to do
Only jes' a-wishin' you
Wuz a-gittin' there like me,
And June wuz eternity!
Lay out there and try to see
Jes' how lazy you kin be! --
Tumble round and souse yer head
In the clover-bloom, er pull
Yer straw hat acrost yer eyes
And peek through it at the skies,
Thinkin' of old chums 'ats dead,
Maybe, smilin' back at you
In betwixt the beautiful
Clouds o'gold and white and blue! --
Month a man kin railly love --
June, you know, I'm talkin' of!
March ain't never nothin' new! --
April's altogether too
Brash fer me! and May -- I jes'
'Bominate its promises, --
Little hints o' sunshine and
Green around the timber-land --
A few blossoms, and a few
Chip-birds, and a sprout er two, --
Drap asleep, and it turns in
Fore daylight and snows ag'in! --
But when June comes - Clear my th'oat
With wild honey! -- Rench my hair
In the dew! And hold my coat!
Whoop out loud! And th'ow my hat! --
June wants me, and I'm to spare!
Spread them shadders anywhere,
I'll get down and waller there,
And obleeged to you at that!
the sea beats a path to me  this june
the two islands that celebrate summer
shaking hand once a year with the the extreme ebb
and i walk back knee deep in the waves
after crossing over to the other side for a stroll
the gulls that fly back to roost deepens the chill
i shiver and shiver in the breeze
a central figure walking out of a piece of impressionistic art
Knee-Deep in June
-------
Tell you what I like the best -
'Long about knee-deep in June,
'Bout the time strawberries melts
On the vine, - some afternoon
Like to jes' git out and rest,
And not work at nothin' else!
Orchard's where I'd ruther be -
Needn't fence it in fer me! -
Jes' the whole sky overhead,
And the whole airth underneath -
Sort o' so's a man kin breathe
Like he ort, and kind o' has
Elbow-room to keerlessly
Sprawl out len'thways on the grass
Where the shadders thick and soft
As the kivvers on the bed
Mother fixes in the loft
Allus, when they's company!
Jes' a-sort o' lazin there -
S'lazy, 'at you peek and peer
Through the wavin' leaves above,
Like a feller 'ats in love
And don't know it, ner don't keer!
Ever'thing you hear and see
Got some sort o' interest -
Maybe find a bluebird's nest
Tucked up there conveenently
Fer the boy 'at's ap' to be
Up some other apple tree!
Watch the swallers skootin' past
Bout as peert as you could ast;
Er the Bob-white raise and whiz
Where some other's whistle is.
Ketch a shadder down below,
And look up to find the crow -
Er a hawk, - away up there,
'Pearantly froze in the air! -
Hear the old hen squawk, and squat
Over ever' chick she's got,
Suddent-like! - and she knows where
That-air hawk is, well as you! -
You jes' bet yer life she do! -
Eyes a-glitterin' like glass,
Waitin' till he makes a pass!
Pee-wees wingin', to express
My opinion, 's second-class,
Yit you'll hear 'em more er less;
Sapsucks gittin' down to biz,
Weedin' out the lonesomeness;
Mr. Bluejay, full o' sass,
In them baseball clothes o' his,
Sportin' round the orchad jes'
Like he owned the premises!
Sun out in the fields kin sizz,
But flat on yer back, I guess,
In the shade's where glory is!
That's jes' what I'd like to do
Stiddy fer a year er two!
Plague! Ef they ain't somepin' in
Work 'at kind o' goes ag'in'
My convictions! - 'long about
Here in June especially! -
Under some ole apple tree,
Jes' a-restin through and through,
I could git along without
Nothin' else at all to do
Only jes' a-wishin' you
Wuz a-gittin' there like me,
And June wuz eternity!
Lay out there and try to see
Jes' how lazy you kin be! -
Tumble round and souse yer head
In the clover-bloom, er pull
Yer straw hat acrost yer eyes
And peek through it at the skies,
Thinkin' of old chums 'ats dead,
Maybe, smilin' back at you
In betwixt the beautiful
Clouds o'gold and white and blue! -
Month a man kin railly love -
June, you know, I'm talkin' of!
March ain't never nothin' new! -
April's altogether too
Brash fer me! and May - I jes'
'Bominate its promises, -
Little hints o' sunshine and
Green around the timber-land -
A few blossoms, and a few
Chip-birds, and a sprout er two, -
Drap asleep, and it turns in
Fore daylight and snows ag'in! -
But when June comes - Clear my th'oat
With wild honey! - Rench my hair
In the dew! And hold my coat!
Whoop out loud! And th'ow my hat! -
June wants me, and I'm to spare!
Spread them shadders anywhere,
I'll get down and waller there,
And obleeged to you at that!
James Whitcomb Riley
Dedicated to.....World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought..17th June
In this barren and forbidding landscape, even the perpetual denizens, the sand grains, shift and tumble, rise and know not where to fall.
They are not alone; I, too, drift in the same mysterious and stifling haze.
Trudging, groping for the unfulfilled promise of the mirage, ever near, ever so far. It would not be strange if my eyes would turn just as vacant and lifeless.
It is only the concerted thoughts of the wholeness that keep my mind from exploding into a million insignificant fragments.
But this is not all, there is more, much more!
It is you who torment me most of all.
Visions of you shimmer in a thousand places amidst the maze of fleeting reality; bits and pieces of which I gather at times.
It makes me giggle and gleam only to greedily grab for more; in the confused frenzy loosing, seemingly, more than I gained.
But you do show me, my tattered nerves, a direction.
A direction in which I must tread on limping, heaving, sweating but going on. For if there would not be the distant and melodious reverberation of your innocent laughter; I wonder how I would fare amidst the lurking shadows behind the countless dunes?
For as the day passes,  the shadows grow darker,  their pointed advances ripping  through the fabric of my soul.
I could have been broken to bits and blown to dust had there not been a vague realization that this, too, shall pass. That, there, somewhere over the horizon the desert ends  and slowly but surely blends into the green everglades where life and abundance, intertwine and  knot together to whisper songs of rejuvenation into the ears of the dancing winds and then I know I shall  make  it
yes
I shall live
(Vintage…from files)
Written in a desolate wind swept desert in Saudi Arabia in 1992
Authors - Joyce Hemsley
and John William McGrath.
By the moon, I was enraptured.
I cried like a weeping willow,
reaching for the faraway stars
and memories beneath my pillow.
Like a whirlwind you came to me,
I weakened to words the singers croon.
Passion I felt, was more than real
Love's concerto ~ playing in June.
I dream a slightly different dream,
time goes by and I can't forget you;
my heart may show a thousand scars,
how could I believe without you?
Like a child you may turn away
obscuring the stars and sun at noon.
Tears of sorrow I could not conceal
without 'love's concerto in June'.
Delivered
11 August 2005
Vineyard Room
Robert Mondavi Winery
Oakville, California
Good afternoon. Varied folks have spoken fondly of Mary, and over and over, and over again, I've heard the word compassion. I have my own little story to tell.
I've known Mary many years, first as a Winery employee, and later more specifically as Robert Mondavi's Administrative Assistant. In that capacity, I reported directly to Mary. During a late Saturday afternoon incident, May 2001 I found myself at the mercy of a work-related mental lapse, so radically uncharacteristic, so emotionally disturbing, that its happening caused me to seriously re-examine my ability to continue functioning at the heightened level of excellence I'd decreed myself early on. That evening...and all of Sunday I pondered the tragedy that might have occurred. I thought of the enormous responsibility I held in my position of trust...the lives of all those folks whose ultimate safety the Company faithfully placed in my hands. Amid hours of internal questioning and self-doubt speculation, and later discussing the matter with my family, I concluded that I should resign forthwith my position with Robert Mondavi Winery.
Meeting with Mary early the following Monday morning, I presented the letter of resignation, hand-written on an 8 1/2 x 11 inch sheet of paper, full-page text. She read the letter through, pausing to ask questions, counseling as she went. Setting the letter aside, she said 'I don't want you to do this. Take a week off, two weeks, whatever time you think you need, but don't do this.' I've always held the utmost respect and admiration for Mary, but I walked away that morning with a new-found appreciation of her that had absolutely nothing to do with anything she had said during the course of our conference. But, I grasped its relevance dramatically etched in the poignant observation I'd made during the interval. For as she read the letter, she began to cry, and the tears continued flowing throughout the duration of our meeting. She took my pain, that Monday morning, and made it.......her very own.
*
*
During July 4th weekend 1995, I attended my family's reunion at Pontiac, just outside Detroit, Michigan. At the conclusion of the event, I shared an airport ride with my cousin Alyce. Along the way she reminisced about her late father, saying 'I miss him so much. I think about him every day, and I feel his presence near me...every single day. As I ride along in this car, I feel him seated...right here...beside me.' Turning toward me, smiling, with tears flowing down her face, she asked 'Would you write a poem about that? '
Aboard the aircraft, later that evening, I thought of an urgent matter I needed to discuss with Mary. As I thought of her, a startling recollection came to mind. Saint Patrick's Day, just past, I'd encountered Mary strolling the Winery grounds, stunningly attired in an elegant pale green dress. I commented, 'What a beautiful dress.' A broad smile came over her face, and through streaming tears she said, 'This was my mother's dress. My mother went to bed one evening in good health, as far as I knew, but she did not awaken the following morning. She passed away during her slumber.'
I sat there on the plane pondering Mary and her story, her smile and her tears, and was instantly reminded of my cousin's presence during our airport ride hours earlier. I thought of the two women, totally unacquainted, yet together bound....in spiritual poignancy, that identical melding of 'joy and sorrow...an infinite longing. And at that moment......the image of my maternal grandfather came vividly to mind......and somewhere over the Sierra Nevada Mountains, I was moved to write; immediately composing the poem:
IS NOT PERCEPTION.....REALITY
Reality says they've passed away
......Is not perception...reality
For I feel a living presence, as though
They stand right next to me
Those guiding hands of long ago
So firm against my brow
As strong and gentle as yesterday
Is the warmth which I know now
That legacy of the distant past
Still......a mighty roar
Memories sustain my soul
And on whose wings I soar
Reality says they've passed away
Silenced in death, and then
Perception says they're just as close
And real as way back when
*
*
I was born and reared on a small farm in Southern Illinois, nine miles north of the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, and moved away the morning following my High School graduation. Fond are the memories of my childhood. I remember standing out in the yard, gazing down the hill, and across the flat-lands. Looming in the distance, I could easily see the highway bridge spanning the Mississippi River. I spent countless hours imagining all sorts of happenings on and about that bridge. I recall the sight and sounds of the approaching rain, long before the showers arrived at my vantage point, there on the old porch swing. In the backyard I see the five fruit trees I planted. Out front, just beyond the driveway, is my little red wagon. And down the lane, across the graveled road, sits the old two-room grammar schoolhouse. I was barely seventeen years old when I last laid eyes on any of this. One of the many appreciations I have of Mary is the fact that she never lost sight of her roots. Though she went away for a while, she answered the love of the land, and found her way back to the ranch. And I imagine...the joy she found in the simple act of stepping outside her door to some magical interaction with those magnificent days of her childhood. She might have sensed it in the screech of a passing car on State Route 12, or she may have seen it somewhere within the shadows of the humongous hills rising only feet from where she stood, or it could have been a random sparkle lurking in the stream that flowed by the house, or she might have heard it in the approaching sound of a distant train, or it could have been a rock, or perhaps a tree. But, clearly I see the woman, and I see the little girl. I see them holding hands, walking and talking, and savoring the moment, and I see this jewel of a person I'm am so blessed to have known as, 'The treasure of Jamieson Canyon.'....There's an old road, winding...Along the stream, meandering....Romance of a train...From God knows where...Echoed sounds rumbling....Walking the hills thinking....Of the joy those sounds are bringing....Memories welcome the child again.....She's the treasure of Jamieson....Canyon.
*
*
Thank you, and good evening.
~JAMES B. EARLEY
Pum, Pum, Pum,
Hear the mournful beat of the drums.
All come, all come, all come,
To honor those who died.
Pum, Pum, Pum,
Hear the joyful beat of the drums.
We sprinkle water, honey, rum and gin,
To laugh with thee and quench thy thirst.
Pum, Pum, Pum,
In the beat of our hearts,
Joy and sadness echo the drums,
As we cast these flowers into the sea,
to honor thee, to honor thee!
June 2 honors Middle Passage Remembrance Day, commemorating the terrible days
When African slaves were stuffed like sardines in the holds of ships and brought to
America.  Many died ghastly deaths.  Others, when they realized they were enslaved,
threw themselves into the ocean in the name of freedom.  The first slave ships arrived in
Charleston in 1670.  To honor the millions of slaves who died, water and honey, gin
or rum are sprinkled in the waves to give their ancestors something to drink.  Some
Throw flowers into the waves, and some beat drums.
Rise up, and do begin the day's adorning;
The Summer dark is but the dawn of day.
The last of sunset fades into the morning,
The morning calls you from the dark away.
The holy mist, the white mist of the morning,
Was wreathing upward on my lonely way.
The way was waiting for your own adorning
That should complete the broad adorned day.
Rise up, and do begin the day's adorning;
The little eastern clouds are dapple grey:
There will be wind among the leaves to-day;
It is the very promise of the morning.
Lux Tua Via Mea: your light's my way -
Then do rise up and make it perfect day.
O come sweet June, my lovely June
The month when first the roses bloom -
A wondrous, colourful display
By sunlight kissed throughout the day,
So chasing all my cares away.
And fixed above, the starry bull,
Glittering there, so beautiful,
Adorning thus the northern skies
Whene'er the dazzling daylight dies -
‘Tis like a glimpse of Paradise.
Then climbing high in heav'ns expanse
The sun ascends, to so enhance
The splendour that is all around.
O June, fair June, wherein abound
The seasons gifts, which full surround,
With flower petals soft unfurled
And vines around the trellis curled.
The grass is sweet and richly green
With shining luminescent sheen -
Your face, my June, a beauteous scene.
Carnations flourish through the years
Bursting forth from Mary's tears,
And Honeysuckle-scented air,
No other fragrance does compare -
I seek to ever tarry there.
O June, dear June, for you I wait -
My longing ever shall abate
When you recur with all your grace
To lift my heart and light my face,
And thus my soul to full embrace.
Such pure delight, all heaven sent,
O June, my June, you bring content.
‘Tis you for whom I ever yearn,
Awaiting thus your prized return -
O June, my lovely June sojourn.
Some extraction inside
Drag to some shore
Where loneliness covers
Can't persist to happiness
Surrounded with lazy mud
It spreads to the lament shore
Darken fancies are on the way
It tilts to the shoulder side
Showers to wet all alone
Need to protest with the entire swathe
Still it can break this chunk
Yet moan inside
Feels shiver that conquers the consciousness
Can't resist with this stance
Nature is taking bathe
It chills all in this endeavor
Nature mourns inside
Its tears comes as monsoon
In this crazy night
Feels to loss in its arms
Still it's the grieves inside
I can't condolence on this concern
Even I am on the path of solitude
Still I mourn
Let our tears shrink together
June makes both of us cry
In this stiffness let's move to some other shore
Where monsoon never hits with its moan
But on that shore thirst will faint us to some side
So that needs to call him again to that shore
Though the grief comes as tears
Need to be silent and clasp this monsoon
On its pave as a dew drop tears will shed
It will pass on to its long way
So that be a part of the monsoon in June
We both mourn, to some solitude
With all the whisper lets be together……………………….
©2014 SALINI.S.NAIR. All rights reserved.
THESE things I remember
Of New England June,
Like a vivid day-dream
In the azure noon,
While one haunting figure
Strays through every scene,
Like the soul of beauty
Through her lost demesne.
Gardens full of roses
And peonies a-blow
In the dewy morning,
Row on stately row,
Spreading their gay patterns,
Crimson, pied and cream,
Like some gorgeous fresco
Or an Eastern dream.
Nets of waving sunlight
Falling through the trees;
Fields of gold-white daisies
Rippling in the breeze;
Lazy lifting groundswells,
Breaking green as jade
On the lilac beaches,
Where the shore-birds wade.
Orchards full of blossom,
Where the bob-white calls
And the honeysuckle
Climbs the old gray walls;
Groves of silver birches,
Beds of roadside fern,
In the stone-fenced pasture
At the river's turn.
Out of every picture
Still she comes to me
With the morning freshness
Of the summer sea, —
A glory in her bearing,
A sea-light in her eyes,
As if she could not forget
The spell of Paradise.
Thrushes in the deep woods,
With their golden themes,
Fluting like the choirs
At the birth of dreams.
Fireflies in the meadows
At the gate of Night,
With their fairy lanterns
Twinkling soft and bright.
Ah, not in the roses,
Nor the azure noon,
Nor the thrushes' music,
Lies the soul of June.
It is something finer,
More unfading far,
Than the primrose evening
And the silver star;
Something of the rapture
My beloved had,
When she made the morning
Radiant and glad,—
Something of her gracious
Ecstasy of mien,
That still haunts the twilight,
Loving though unseen.
When the ghostly moonlight
Walks my garden ground,
Like a leisurely patrol
On his nightly round,
These things I remember
Of the long ago,
While the slumbrous roses
Neither care nor know.
Old clothes, too small now, yet
even when I wore them it was
not good enough, never good
enough, I could never be thin
enough to meet the norm
I am too short, my shoulders
broad, I could not look good in
whatever I wore, even when
my thin clothes was a perfect
fit, it was not good enough
My old black skirt, these jeans -
still I keep them in my cupboard
amongst old files and books and
toys, the memory of how hard I
tried to meet the norm
But fatigue won…
Homer poured, in thousand wrote.
Distant lands with swords smote.
Hate and fate spelt siege of troy.
Famous made by wooden ploy.
Feigning training unheard beast.
Slogs to spurn Palamedes’ feast.
Not Infirm mind yet scatters salt.
To seeing eyes sows the fault.
Ithaca’s reynard, fated king.
Ached for worlds, sea wave wing.
Machiavellian sly-boot, on the rail.
Rough hand ale; hung desolate sail.
Galling nerves hath tied to mast.
Tamed the surf, ebbed fury past.
Roaring tempests take to task.
Therein glory constructs to bask.
Decades done in wrath and whim.
Tumultuous waves on journey grim.
With morning vigor, onward race.
For slighter mortals set the pace.
Lesser men doth labor disgrace.
Labor disgraces no mans face.
Enticing sea nymph hid a seven.
Deathly grief in years to tavern.
Calypso naught in years wrench.
Counsels Hermes a livid wench.
Lent an ear and came to terms.
Closeted deep in vengeful germs.
Olden done yet grasped the bow.
Penelope ends her memory row.
Ithacensian wooers, done to woe.
Saw him string and ate the crow.
Suitors of Penelope were be slay.
Drew Odysseus, came the day.
Poorer than Irus, shalt who be?
Soul who bequeathed to the lee.
Swindler him, that done to dust.
Clutching blade in heart thrust.
Enigmas, puzzles Joyce’d spun;
fair sages amid, had poking fun.
(Islamabad)
(June 14,2009)
Roman misspelling… Ulysses
June 16 is celebrated by Joyce's fans worldwide as 'Bloomsday' and is commemorated by activities such as academic symposia, re-enactments and readings from Ulysses…this is my humble rendering of a niche of the Odyssey by Homer
http: //www.online-literature.com/homer/odyssey/
htt p: //www.online-literature.com/james_joyce/ulysses/< br>
Ulysses is one of the greatest literary works in the English language. In his remarkable tour de force, Joyce catalogues one day – June 16 1904 – in immense detail as Leopold Bloom wanders through Dublin, talking, observing, musing – and always remembering Molly, his passionate, wayward wife. Set in the shadow of Homer’s Odyssey, internal thoughts – Joyce’s famous stream of consciousness – give physical reality extra colour and perspective. Though Ulysses is widely regarded as a ‘difficult’ novel, this fresh and lively reading shows its comic genius as well as its great moments of poignancy, making it more accessible than ever before
NOW, for the faith that is in ye,
Polander, Sclav, and Kelt!
Prove to the world what the lips have hurled
The hearts have grandly felt.
Rouse, ye races in shackles!
See in the East, the glare
Is red in the sky, and the warning cry
Is sounding—'Awake! Prepare!'
A voice from the spheres—a hand downreached
To hands that would be free,
To rend the gyves from the fettered lives
That strain toward Liberty!
Circassia! the cup is flowing
That holdeth perennial youth:
Who strikes succeeds, for when manhood bleeds
Each dropp is a Cadmus' tooth.
Sclavonia! first from the sheathing
Thy knife to the cord that binds;
Thy one-tongued host shall renew the boast:
'The Scythians are the Winds!'
Greece! to the grasp of heroes,
Flashed with thine ancient pride,
Thy swords advance: in the passing chance
The great of heart are tried.
Poland! thy lance-heads brighten:
The Tartar has swept thy name
From the schoolman's chart, but the patriot's heart
Preserves its lines in flame.
Ireland! mother of dolors,
The trial on thee descends:
Who quaileth in fear when the test is near,
His bondage never ends.
Oppression, that kills the craven,
Defied, is the freeman's good:
No cause can be lost forever whose cost
Is coined from Freedom's blood!
Liberty's wine and altar
Are blood and human right;
Her weak shall be strong while the struggle with wrong
Is a sacrificial fight.
Earth for the people—their laws their own—
An equal race for all:
Though shattered and few who to this are true
Shall flourish the more they fall.
Forty words:
Today is such a romantic day
the warmth is simply inspiring,
heaven shines in brilliant array
joy of two hearts' desiring.
Oh the glory of beautiful June
unrivalled in magical splendour
honeymoon for bride and groom
deeply in love forever.
In lowly dale, fast by a river's side,
With woody hill o'er hill encompass'd round,
A most enchanting wizard did abide,
Than whom a fiend more fell is nowhere found.
It was, I ween, a lovely spot of ground;
And there a season atween June and May,
Half prankt with spring, with summer half imbrown'd,
A listless climate made, where, sooth to say,
No living wight could work, ne cared e'en for play.
Was nought around but images of rest,
Sleep-soothing groves, and quiet lawns between,
And flowery beds, that slumbrous influence kest
From poppies breath'd, and beds of pleasant green,
Where never yet was creeping creature seen.
Meatime unnumber'd glittering streamlets play'd,
And hurl'd everywhere their water's sheen,
That, as they bicker'd through the sunny glade,
Though restless still themselves, a lulling murmur made.
Join'd to the prattle of the purling rills,
Were heard the lowing herds along the vale,
And flocks loud bleating from the distant hills,
And vacant shepherds piping in the dale:
And now and then sweet Philomel would wail,
Or stock-doves plain amid the forest deep,
That drowsy rustled to the sighing gale;
And still a coil the grasshopper did keep;
Yet all these sounds y-blent inclined all to sleep.
Full in the passage of the vale above,
A sable, silent, solemn, forest stood,
Where nought but shadowy forms was seen to move,
As Idless fancy'd in her dreaming mood;
And up the hills, on either side, a wood
Of black'ning pines, aye waving to and fro,
Sent forth a sleepy horror through the blood;
And where this valley winded out, below,
The murmuring main was heard, and scarcely heard, to flow.
A pleasing land of drowsy-head it was,
Of dreams that wave before the half-shut eye,
And of gay castles in the clouds that pass,
For ever flushing round a summer sky;
There eke the soft delights, that witchingly
Instil a wanton sweetness through the breast,
And the calm pleasures, always hover'd nigh;
But whate'er smack'd of noyace or unrest,
Was far, far off expell'd from this delicious nest.
June sings for me, a song
of a  rain cloud, which has
lost its way in a desert storm,
haunted and chased
by the conspiring rays of
of a burnt up  sun
but found its way back
to a green hill to sing
again a song for me....
June 11,2009
O Lord, the hope of Israel, all they that forsake
Thee shall be ashamed ; and they that depart from
Thee, shall be written in the earth, because they have
forsaken the Lord, the fountain of living waters.
Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed ; save me,
and I shall be saved, for Thou art my health, and my
great deliverer.
I said in the cutting off of my days, I shall go to
the gates of the grave ; I have deprived myself of the
residue of my years.
I said, I shall not see the Lord, even the Lord in the
land of the living : I shall behold man no more with
the inhabitants of the world.
O Lord ! by Thee doth man live, and from Thee is
the life of my spirit : therefore wilt Thou recover me,
and make me to live.
Thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the
pit of corruption ; for Thou hast cast all my sins
behind Thy back.
For Thy name's sake hast Thou put off thine anger ;
for Thy praise hast Thou refrained from me, that I
should not be cut off.
For the grave cannot praise Thee, death cannot
celebrate Thee : they that go down into the pit, cannot
hope for Thy truth.
The living, the living, he shall praise Thee, as I do
this day : the father to the children shall make known
Thy truth.
O Lord ! Thou hast been merciful, Thou hast
brought back my life from corruption : Thou hast
redeemed me from my sin.
They that follow after lying vanities, forsake their
own mercy.
Therefore shall Thy songs be with me, and my
prayer unto the God of my life.
I will go unto the altar of my God, unto God, the
joy of my youth ; and in Thy fear will I worship
towards Thy holy temple.
I will sacrifice unto Thee with the voice of thanks-
giving ; I will pay that which I have vowed ; sal-
vation is of the Lord.
The blue sky is touching me, touching
And entering in my heart with the white clouds
The garden in June
Has new buds sprouting every night
And new flowers blossoming every morn
The mighty main in June
That holds the dreams of the sky
Moves the dancing wings of foamy flowers
A ship sailing into the distance
Is softly blending the hues
Of the sky and the sea
Two coconut trees standing hand in hand
On the windfront shore
Unable to get the hint of June
By Rose Lu (Bing Hua)         Tr. East Sea Fairy
The month of June
Doesn't wait for me anymore
Because it comes and goes
And everyday is a different day on the June calendar
But I don't mind it at all
In the month of June
I composed a  melodic tune
Ahead of time before the clocks struck noon
Later at night I waited to sing it out in full moon
June is the smell of sweet fresh roses
A beautiful rosy sixth month it exposes
And with the sweetness of each day
The sky clouds smile brightful and gay
Good Afternoon, My little summer butterflies
In June we can play where yellow meadows lie
We can observe little rivers flow into lagoons
And the mellifluent wildlife retreat into cocoons
And if love where to blossom it will do so quite soon
Because there is something about the month of June
As the longest daylight hours a year balloon
All marriage hopes are not left marooned
June is a beautiful month to sing
And listen to loud wedding bells ring
In this long awaited summer month
The mood of happiness is all June fronts
Copyright 2009 - Sylvia Chidi
"They would have spared life to any of their English prisoners who should consent to profess Mahometanism, by repeating the usual short formula; but only one half-caste cared to save himself in that way." -- Extract from an Indian newspaper.
MORITURUS LOQUITUR.
Oft in the pleasant summer years,
Reading the tales of days bygone,
I have mused on the story of human tears,
All that man unto man had done,
Massacre, torture, and black despair;
Reading it all in my easy-chair.
Passionate prayer for a minute's life;
Tortured crying for death as rest;
Husband pleading for child or wife,
Pitiless stroke upon tender breast.
Was it all real as that I lay there
Lazily stretched on my easy-chair?
Could I believe in those hard old times,
Here in this safe luxurious age?
Were the horrors invented to season rhymes,
Or truly is man so fierce in his rage?
What could I suffer, and what could I dare?
I who was bred to that easy-chair.
They were my fathers, the men of yore,
Little they recked of a cruel death;
They would dip their hands in a heretic's gore,
They stood and burnt for a rule of faith.
What would I burn for, and whom not spare?
I, who had faith in an easy-chair.
Now do I see old tales are true,
Here in the clutch of a savage foe;
Now shall I know what my fathers knew,
Bodily anguish and bitter woe,
Naked and bound in the strong sun's glare,
Far from my civilized easy-chair.
Now have I tasted and understood
That old world feeling of mortal hate;
For the eyes all round us are hot with blood;
They will kill us coolly -- they do but wait;
While I, I would sell ten lives, at least,
For one fair stroke at that devilish priest
Just in return for the kick he gave,
Bidding me call on the prophet's name;
Even a dog by this may save
Skin from the knife, and soul from the flame;
My soul! if he can let the prophet burn it,
But life is sweet if a word may earn it.
A bullock's death, and at thirty years!
Just one phrase, and a man gets off it;
Look at that mongrel clerk in his tears
Whining aloud the name of the prophet;
Only a formula easy to patter,
And, God Almighty, what can it matter?
"Matter enough," will my comrade say
Praying aloud here close at my side,
"Whether you mourn in despair alway,
Cursed for ever by Christ denied;
Or whether you suffer a minute's pain
All the reward of Heaven to gain."
Not for a moment faltereth he,
Sure of the promise and pardon of sin;
Thus did the martyrs die, I see,
Little to lose and muckle to win;
Death means Heaven, he longs to receive it,
But what shall I do if I don't believe it?
Life is pleasant, and friends may be nigh,
Fain would I speak one word and be spared;
Yet I could be silent and cheerfully die,
If I were only sure God cared;
If I had faith, and were only certain
That light is behind that terrible curtain.
But what if He listeth nothing at all
Of words a poor wretch in his terror may say?
That mighty God who created all
To labour and live their appointed day;
Who stoops not either to bless or ban,
Weaving the woof of an endless plan.
He is the Reaper, and binds the sheaf,
Shall not the season its order keep?
Can it be changed by a man's belief?
Millions of harvests still to reap;
Will God reward, if I die for a creed,
Or will He but pity, and sow more seed?
Surely He pities who made the brain,
When breaks that mirror of memories sweet,
When the hard blow falleth, and never again
Nerve shall quiver nor pulse shall beat;
Bitter the vision of vanishing joys;
Surely He pities when man destroys.
Here stand I on the ocean's brink,
Who hath brought news of the further shore?
How shall I cross it? Sail or sink,
One thing is sure, I return no more;
Shall I find haven, or aye shall I be
Tossed in the depths of a shoreless sea?
They tell fair tales of a far-off land,
Of love rekindled, of forms renewed;
There may I only touch one hand
Here life's ruin will little be rued;
But the hand I have pressed and the voice I have heard,
To lose them for ever, and all for a word?
Now do I feel that my heart must break
All for one glimpse of a woman's face;
Swiftly the slumbering memories wake
Odour and shadow of hour and place;
One bright ray through the darkening past
Leaps from the lamp as it brightens last,
Showing me summer in western land
Now, as the cool breeze murmureth
In leaf and flower -- And here I stand
In this plain all bare save the shadow of death;
Leaving my life in its full noonday,
And no one to know why I flung it away.
Why? Am I bidding for glory's roll?
I shall be murdered and clean forgot;
Is it a bargain to save my soul?
God, whom I trust in, bargains not;
Yet for the honour of English race,
May I not live or endure disgrace.
Ay, but the word, if I could have said it,
I by no terrors of hell perplext;
Hard to be silent and have no credit
From man in this world, or reward in the next;
None to bear witness and reckon the cost
Of the name that is saved by the life that is lost.
I must be gone to the crowd untold
Of men by the cause which they served unknown,
Who moulder in myriad graves of old;
Never a story and never a stone
Tells of the martyrs who die like me,
Just for the pride of the old countree.
There are days in June that seem to be December.
Thus sometimes the substance of this room
or more accurately the people in it who pray silently
start up in the midst of happiness and alter,
bewitched by a murmur from the calm foliage.
Our hearts are shifting as the winds
changing,
pliable as gold.
See this windless sail,
motionless?
Almost before one feels the subtle breeze,
it stirs up
and slips away.
930
There is a June when Corn is cut
And Roses in the Seed—
A Summer briefer than the first
But tenderer indeed
As should a Face supposed the Grave's
Emerge a single Noon
In the Vermilion that it wore
Affect us, and return—
Two Seasons, it is said, exist—
The Summer of the Just,
And this of Ours, diversified
With Prospect, and with Frost—
May not our Second with its First
So infinite compare
That We but recollect the one
The other to prefer?
June: AEgloga Sexta. HOBBINOL & COLIN Cloute.
HOBBINOL.
LO! Collin, here the place, whose pleasaunt syte
From other shades hath weand my wandring mynde.
Tell me, what wants me here, to worke delyte?
The simple ayre, the gentle warbling wynde,
So calme, so coole, as no where else I fynde:
The grassye ground with daintye Daysies dight,
The Bramble bush, where Byrds of euery kynde
To the waters fall their tunes attemper right.
COLLIN.
O happy Hobbinoll, I blesse thy state,
That Paradise hast found, whych Adam lost.
Here wander may thy flock early or late,
Withouten dreade of Wolues to bene ytost:
Thy louely layes here mayet thou freely boste.
But I vnhappy man, whom cruell fate,
And angry Gods pursue from coste to coste,
Can nowhere fynd, to shouder my lucklesse pate.
HOBBINOLL.
Then if by me thou list aduised be,
Forsake the soyle, that so doth the bewitch:
Leaue me those hilles, where harbrough nis to see,
Nor holybush, nor brere, nor winding witche:
And to the dales resort, where shepheards ritch,
And fruictfull flocks bene euery where to see.
Here no night Rauens lodge more blacke then pitche,
Nor eluish ghosts, nor gastly owles doe flee.
But frendly Faeries, met with many Graces,
And lightfote Nymphes can chace the lingring night,
With Heydeguyes, and trimly trodden traces,
Whilst systers nyne, which dwell on Parnasse hight,
Doe make them musick, for their more delight:
And Pan himselfe to kisse their christall faces,
Will pype and daunce, when Phoebe shineth bright:
Such pierlesse pleasures haue we in these places.
COLLIN.
And I, whylst youth, and course of carelesse yeeres
Did let me walke withouten lincks of loue,
In such delights did ioy amongst my peeres:
But ryper age such pleasures doth reproue,
My fancye eke from former follies moue
To stayed steps: for time in passing weares
(As garments doen, which wexen old aboue)
And draweth newe delightes with hoary heares.
Tho couth I sing of loue, and tune my pype
Vnto my plaintiue pleas in verses made:
Tho would I seeke ,
To giue my Rosalind, and in Sommer shade
Dight gaudy Girlonds, was my comen trade,
To crowne her golden locks, but yeeres more rype,
And losse of her, whose loue as lyfe I wayd,
Those weary wanton toyes away dyd wype.
HOBBINOLL.
Colin, to heare thy rymes and roundelayes,
Which thou were wont on wastfull hylls to singe,
I more delight, then larke in Sommer dayes:
Whose Echo made the neyghbour groues to ring,
And taught the byrds, which in the lower spring
Did shroude in shady leaues from sonny rayes,
Frame to thy songe their chereful cheriping,
Or hold theyr peace, for shame of thy swete layes.
I sawe Calliope wyth Muses moe,
Soone as thy oaten pype began to sound,
Theyr youry Luyts and Tamburins forgoe:
And from the fountaine, where they sat around,
Renne after hastely thy siluer sound.
But when they came, where thou thy skill didst showe,
They drewe abacke, as halfe with shame confound,
Shepheard to see, them in theyr art outgoe.
COLLIN.
Of Muses Hobbinol, I conne no skill:
For they bene daughters of the hyghest Ioue,
And holden scorne of homely shepheards quill.
For sith I heard, that Pan with Phoebus stroue,
Which him to much rebuke and Daunger droue:
I neuer lyst presume to Parnasse hyll,
But pyping lowe in shade of lowly groue,
I play to please my selfe, all be it ill.
Nought weigh I, who my song doth prayse or blame,
Ne striue to winne renowne, or passe the rest:
With shepheard sittes not, followe flying fame:
But feede his flocke in fields, where falls hem best.
I wote my rymes bene rough, and rudely drest:
The fytter they, my carefull case to frame:
Enough is me to paint out my vnrest,
And poore my piteous plaints out in the same.
The God of shepheards Tityrus is dead,
Who taught me homely, as I can, to make.
He, whilst he liued, was the soueraigne head
Of shepheards all, that bene with loue ytake:
Well couth he wayle hys Woes, and lightly slake
The flames, which loue within his heart had bredd,
And tell vs mery tales, to keepe vs wake,
The while our sheepe about vs safely fedde.
Nowe dead he is, and lyeth wrapt in lead,
(O why should death on hym such outrage showe?)
And all hys passing skil with him is fledde,
The fame whereof doth dayly greater growe.
But if on me some little drops would flowe,
Of that the spring was in his learned hedde,
I soone would learne these woods, to wayle my woe,
And teache the trees, their trickling teares to shedde.
Then should my plaints, causd of discurtesee,
As messengers of all my painful plight,
Flye to my loue, where euer that she bee,
And pierce her heart with poynt of worthy wight:
As shee deserues, that wrought so deadly spight.
And thou Menalcas, that by trecheree
Didst vnderfong my lasse, to wexe so light,
Shouldest well be knowne for such thy villanee.
But since I am not, as I wish I were,
Ye gentle shepheards, which your flocks do feede,
Whether on hylls, or dales, or other where,
Beare witnesse all of thys so wicked deede:
And tell the lasse, whose flowre is woxe a weede,
And faultlesse fayth, is turned to faithlesse fere,
That she the truest shepheards hart made bleede,
That lyues on earth, and loued her most dere.
HOBBINOL.
O carefull Colin, I lament thy case,
Thy teares would make the hardest flint to flowe.
Ah faithlesse Rosalind, and voide of grace,
That art the roote of all this ruthfull woe.
But now is time, I gesse, homeward to goe:
Then ryse ye blessed flocks, and home apace,
Least night with stealing steppes doe you forsloe,
And wett your tender Lambes, that by you trace.
Colins embleme.
Gia speme spenta.
Now summer is in flower and natures hum
Is never silent round her sultry bloom
Insects as small as dust are never done
Wi' glittering dance and reeling in the sun
And green wood fly and blossom haunting bee
Are never weary of their melody
Round field hedge now flowers in full glory twine
Large bindweed bells wild hop and streakd woodbine
That lift athirst their slender throated flowers
Agape for dew falls and for honey showers
These round each bush in sweet disorder run
And spread their wild hues to the sultry sun
Where its silk netting lace on twigs and leaves
The mottld spider at eves leisure weaves
That every morning meet the poets eye
Like faireys dew wet dresses hung to dry
The wheat swells into ear and leaves below
The may month wild flowers and their gaudy show
Bright carlock bluecap and corn poppy red
Which in such clouds of colors wid [e] ly spread
That at the sun rise might to fancys eye
Seem to reflect the many colord sky
And leverets seat and lark and partridge nest
It leaves a schoolboys height in snugger rest
And oer the weeders labour overgrows
Who now in merry groups each morning goes
To willow skirted meads wi fork and rake
The scented hay cocks in long rows to make
Where their old visitors in russet brown
The haytime butterflyes dance up and down
And gads that teaze like whasps the timid maid
And drive the herdboys cows to pond and shade
Who when his dogs assistance fails to stop
Is forcd his half made oaten pipes to drop
And start and hallo thro the dancing heat
To keep their gadding tumult from the wheat
Who in their rage will dangers overlook
And leap like hunters oer the pasture brook
Brushing thro blossomd beans in maddening haste
And 'stroying corn they scarce can stop to taste
Labour pursues its toil in weary mood
And feign woud rest wi shadows in the wood
The mowing gangs bend oer the beeded grass
Where oft the gipseys hungry journeying ass
Will turn its wishes from the meadow paths
Listning the rustle of the falling swaths
The ploughman sweats along the fallow vales
And down the suncrackt furrow slowly trails
Oft seeking when athirst the brooks supply
Where brushing eager the brinks bushes bye
For coolest water he oft brakes the rest
Of ring dove brooding oer its idle nest
And there as loath to leave the swaily place
He'll stand to breath and whipe his burning face
The shepherds idle hours are over now
Nor longer leaves him neath the hedgrow bough
On shadow pillowd banks and lolling stile
Wilds looses now their summer friends awhile
Shrill whistles barking dogs and chiding scold
Drive bleating sheep each morn from fallow fold
To wash pits where the willow shadows lean
Dashing them in their fold staind coats to clean
Then turnd on sunning sward to dry agen
They drove them homeward to the clipping pen
In hurdles pent where elm or sycamore
Shut out the sun-or in some threshing floor
There they wi scraps of songs and laugh and tale
Lighten their anual toils while merry ale
Goes round and gladdens old mens hearts to praise
The thread bare customs of old farmers days
Who while the sturting sheep wi trembling fears
Lies neath the snipping of his harmless sheers
Recalls full many a thing by bards unsung
And pride forgot-that reignd when he was young
How the hugh bowl was in the middle set
At breakfast time as clippers yearly met
Filld full of frumity where yearly swum
The streaking sugar and the spotting plumb
Which maids coud never to the table bring
Without one rising from the merry ring
To lend a hand who if twas taen amiss
Woud sell his kindness for a stolen kiss
The large stone pitcher in its homly trim
And clouded pint horn wi its copper rim
Oer which rude healths was drank in spirits high
From the best broach the cellar woud supply
While sung the ancient swains in homly ryhmes
Songs that were pictures of the good old times
When leathern bottles held the beer nut brown
That wakd the sun wi songs and sung him down
Thus will the old man ancient ways bewail
Till toiling sheers gain ground upon the tale
And brakes it off-when from the timid sheep
The fleece is shorn and wi a fearfull leap
He starts-while wi a pressing hand
His sides are printed by the tarry brand
Shaking his naked skin wi wondering joys
And fresh ones are tugd in by sturdy boys
Who when theyre thrown down neath the sheering swain
Will wipe his brow and start his tale again
Tho fashions haughtv frown hath thrown aside
Half the old forms simplicity supplyd
Yet their are some prides winter deigns to spare
Left like green ivy when the trees are bare
And now when sheering of the flocks are done
Some ancient customs mixd wi harmless fun
Crowns the swains merry toils-the timid maid
Pleasd to be praisd and yet of praise affraid
Seeks her best flowers not those of woods and fields
But such as every farmers garden yield
Fine cabbage roses painted like her face
And shining pansys trimmd in golden lace
And tall tuft larkheels featherd thick wi flowers
And woodbines climbing oer the door in bowers
And London tufts of many a mottld hue
And pale pink pea and monkshood darkly blue
And white and purple jiliflowers that stay
Lingering in blossom summer half away
And single blood walls of a lucious smell
Old fashiond flowers which huswives love so well
And columbines stone blue or deep night brown
Their honey-comb-like blossoms hanging down
Each cottage gardens fond adopted child
Tho heaths still claim them where they yet grow wild
Mong their old wild companions summer blooms
Furze brake and mozzling ling and golden broom
Snap dragons gaping like to sleeping clowns
And 'clipping pinks' (which maidens sunday gowns
Full often wear catcht at by tozing chaps)
Pink as the ribbons round their snowy caps
'Bess in her bravery' too of glowing dyes
As deep as sunsets crimson pillowd skyes
And majoram notts sweet briar and ribbon grass
And lavender the choice of every lass
And sprigs of lads love all familiar names
Which every garden thro the village claims
These the maid gathers wi a coy delight
And tyes them up in readiness for night
Giving to every swain tween love and shame
Her 'clipping poseys' as their yearly claim
And turning as he claims the custom kiss
Wi stifld smiles half ankering after bliss
She shrinks away and blushing calls it rude
But turns to smile and hopes to be pursued
While one to whom the seeming hint applied
Follows to claim it and is not denyd
No doubt a lover for within his coat
His nosegay owns each flower of better sort
And when the envious mutter oer their beer
And nodd the secret to his neighbor near
Raising the laugh to make the mutter known
She blushes silent and will not disown
And ale and songs and healths and merry ways
Keeps up a shadow of old farmers days
But the old beachen bowl that once supplyd
Its feast of frumity is thrown aside
And the old freedom that was living then
When masters made them merry wi their men
Whose coat was like his neighbors russet brown
And whose rude speech was vulgar as his clown
Who in the same horn drank the rest among
And joind the chorus while a labourer sung
All this is past-and soon may pass away
The time torn remnant of the holiday
As proud distinction makes a wider space
Between the genteel and the vulgar race
Then must they fade as pride oer custom showers
Its blighting mildew on her feeble flowers
Another tide flows in, another moon
spins silver gossamer upon soft ground,
another droplet of spaced-time too soon
its home within eternity has found.
Soul's song has lost strong s[pr]ing.  None shall resound
as midnight breasts twelve steps that lead to noon,
can chart the sentiments still heart astound,
to tint mad March with tenderness of June.
Yet still this spirit restlessly repines,
though fane would flower from its pain cocoon,
to span star-spangled sky, scan far for signs
which one day rich say she may grant my boon.
If Truth be Beauty, of a truth these lines
shall sparkle where Life’s fair reflection shines...
Dream's haze obeys the tidal ebb and flow
that Luna excercises as its pull
draws, opens, curtains here, there seeds may sow
to catalyze reflections to the full.
Filters fail to stem prismatic streams
whose waves save inklings hiding from dawn's light,
strange how both fragile and eternal themes
link this world to its parellels, unite
base terran trace to hidden face whose spells
spin cause into effect, direct our play,
whose influence spans last gasp, first farewells,
chance dance, phrase phases, catchwor[l|d roundelay.
Alarm bells ring to spring this song from sleep
as sun peeps past horizon, robins cheep...
Dear architect of fine Chateaux in air,
Worthier to stand for ever, if they could,
Than any built of stone, or yet of wood,
For back of royal elephant to bear;
Oh for permission from the skies to share,
Much to my own, though little to thy good,
With thee, (not subject to the jealous mood!)
A partnership of literary ware!
But I am bankrupt now; and doomed henceforth
To drudge, in descant dry, on others' lays;
Bards, I acknowledge, of unequalled worth,
But what is commentator's happiest praise?
That he has furnished lights for other eyes,
Which they who need them use, and then despise.
A red rose in my lady's hair,
A white rose in her fingers,
A wild bird singing low, somewhere,
A song that pulses, lingers.
The sound of dancing and of mirth,
The fiddle's merry chiming,
A smell of earth, of fresh, warm earth,
And honeysuckle climbing;
My lady near, yet far away-
Ah, lonely June of yesterday!
A big white night of velvet sky,
And Milky Way a-gleaming,
The fragrant blue smoke drifting by
From camp-fire brightly beaming;
The stillness of the Northland far-
God's solitudes of splendor-
My road a trail, my chart a star.
Wind, 'mong the balsams slender,
Sing low: O glad June of to-day,
My lady's near, though far away!
.Violet In June
A violet caught I in repose
Upon a sunbathed bank.
Her head was bowed.  Do you suppose
It was from life she shrank?
She seemed so wilted in despair;
No tear was in her eye.
She languished in the torrid air
And seemed resigned to die.
Oh little violet, you have bloomed
When others fail the task;
Amid the hardships that have loomed
There is no more we ask.
Although a breeze of furnace heat
Has robbed you of your tear,
Your destiny is not complete,
Put off your shrinking fear.
Oh little violet, lift your eyes
Above the world, up to the sun;
Fear not, for when the daylight dies
Another dew will come.
I am so excited that once again it is June
When the sun is bright and the birds all sing in tune
Winter is finally gone so no more shoveling of the snow
Now there are hedges to trim and also grass to mow,
Just think, no more slipping or freezing or falling upon the ice
But, though now we must worry about the mosquitoes and the lice
In my youth and in my past I once loved the snow and the cold
Changes though will come, as with seasons and I am getting old,
The flowers they are awakening from their summer sleep
We now again have gardens to tend to and also yards to keep
We can now go off to the park and then off to visit the zoo
At night in the yard we could light marshmallows or have a barbecue,
It is the best month for parties and birthdays and marriages
So in June you had better be prepared to see baby carriages
And out in the yard and parks the children are eager to play
Only thing better than a June night, it is of course a June day,
Children can chase and catch lightning bugs late at night
While we all can sit around the yard with only a porch light
Winter was long and cold and finally here comes June
It again came right on time, not to late and never too soon.
Randy L. McClave
And what is so rare as a day in June?
Then, if ever, come perfect days;
Then Heaven tries earth if it be in tune,
And over it softly her warm ear lays;
Whether we look, or whether we listen,
We hear life murmur, or see it glisten;
Every clod feels a stir of might,
An instinct within it that reaches and towers,
And, groping blindly above it for light,
Climbs to a soul in grass and flowers;
The flush of life may well be seen
Thrilling back over hills and valleys;
The cowslip startles in meadows green,
The buttercup catches the sun in its chalice,
And there's never a leaf nor a blade too mean
To be some happy creature's palace;
The little bird sits at his door in the sun,
Atilt like a blossom among the leaves,
And lets his illumined being o'errun
With the deluge of summer it receives;
His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings,
And the heart in her dumb breast flutters and sings;
He sings to the wide world, and she to her nest,
In the nice ear of Nature which song is the best?
Now is the high-tide of the year,
And whatever of life hath ebbed away
Comes flooding back with a ripply cheer,
Into every bare inlet and creek and bay;
Now the heart is so full that a drop overfills it,
We are happy now because God wills it;
No matter how barren the past may have been,
'Tis enough for us now that the leaves are green;
We sit in the warm shade and feel right well
How the sap creeps up and the blossoms swell;
We may shut our eyes but we cannot help knowing
That skies are clear and grass is growing;
The breeze comes whispering in our ear,
That dandelions are blossoming near,
That maize has sprouted, that streams are flowing,
That the river is bluer than the sky,
That the robin is plastering his house hard by;
And if the breeze kept the good news back,
For our couriers we should not lack;
We could guess it all by yon heifer's lowing,
And hark! How clear bold chanticleer,
Warmed with the new wine of the year,
Tells all in his lusty crowing!
Joy comes, grief goes, we know not how;
Everything is happy now,
Everything is upward striving;
'Tis as easy now for the heart to be true
As for grass to be green or skies to be blue,
'Tis for the natural way of living:
Who knows whither the clouds have fled?
In the unscarred heaven they leave not wake,
And the eyes forget the tears they have shed,
The heart forgets its sorrow and ache;
The soul partakes the season's youth,
And the sulphurous rifts of passion and woe
Lie deep 'neath a silence pure and smooth,
Like burnt-out craters healed with snow.
When June is here--what art have we to sing
The whiteness of the lilies midst the green
Of noon-tranced lawns? Or flash of roses seen
Like redbirds' wings? Or earliest ripening
Prince-Harvest apples, where the cloyed bees cling
Round winey juices oozing down between
The peckings of the robin, while we lean
In under-grasses, lost in marveling.
Or the cool term of morning, and the stir
Of odorous breaths from wood and meadow walks,
The bobwhite's liquid yodel, and the whir
Of sudden flight; and, where the milkmaid talks
Across the bars, on tilted barley-stalks
The dewdrops' glint in webs of gossamer.
I wish I loved the Human Race;
I wish I loved its silly face;
I wish I liked the way it walks;
I wish I liked the way it talks;
And when I'm introduced to one
I wish I thought What Jolly Fun!
flaming june
she sleeps like
a summer bloom
flaming june
sleeping like
a summer bloom
indian summer
the calm in the heat
and her nap
indian summer
fiery bloom
drowsy noon
flaming june
a summer bloom
in the heat
Particulars
title | Flaming June
artist | Frederic Leighton
period | Victorian
date | circa 1895
collection | Museo de Arte de Ponce
Of all of Frederic Leighton's paintings, Flaming June is perhaps the artist's most recognizable and best loved work. It is an image of splendid beauty that compels the viewer to gaze in wonder at the rapturous symphony of color and composition. In this painting, Leighton reveals his genius as both a colorist and a Classicist.
Although Flaming June does not tell a specific story, it is clear that the artist is inviting the spectator to contemplate the figure of the sleeping girl. Some scholars have suggested that this painting is Leighton's homage to a grand tradition in art history that goes back to Giorgione and Titian, in which images of slumbering women were represented. These sleeping women, who were usually at least partially nude and often referred to by the mythological name Venus, were meant to inspire sensuous thoughts (and reactions)     in their primarily male audiences.
However, the Victorian era is notorious for its outwardly prudish attitudes toward overt sensuality. And while the model in Flaming June is certainly not nude, her fiery garments are meant to excite and arouse the senses. Indeed, the girl's dress is the most astonishing shade of orange, and this voluptuous color draws the eye. The vibrant orange is complemented by a soft band of blue in the background, and this effective combination of elements is but one of the characteristics that mark this painting as one of Leighton's most accomplished masterpieces.
I was your lover long ago, sweet June,
Ere life grew hard; I am your lover still,
And follow gladly to the wondrous tune
You pipe on golden reeds to vale and hill.
I am your lover still; to me you seem
To hold the fragrance of the joys long
dead,
The brightness and the beauty of the dream
We dreamed in youth, to hold the tears
we shed,
The laughter of our lips, the faith that lies
Back in that season dear to every heart,
Life's springtime, when God's earth and
God's blue skies
Are, measured by our glance, not far apart.
Thirty-two years since, up against the sun,
Seven shapes, thin atomies to lower sight,
Labouringly leapt and gained thy gabled height,
And four lives paid for what the seven had won.
They were the first by whom the deed was done,
And when I look at thee, my mind takes flight
To that day's tragic feat of manly might,
As though, till then, of history thou hadst none.
Yet ages ere men topped thee, late and soon
Thou watch'dst each night the planets lift and lower;
Thou gleam'dst to Joshua's pausing sun and moon,
And brav'dst the tokening sky when Caesar's power
Approached its bloody end: yea, saw'st that Noon
When darkness filled the earth till the ninth hour.
I forgot to look
where the sidewalk ends
so now I'm
one inch tall
and spread all over the road
I should've taken
the road not taken
I was just staggering in the gate
with two heavy bags
from an exhausting week’s conference
when the conman and his accomplice
got me right at my own front door –
I’m mortified by the memory –
they could replace my missing roof tiles
in a moment, look, the ladder’s
already up there, the accomplice
is halfway up, now he’s already
on the roof in his plimsolls, now he's
shaking the chimney-stack, look, it's loose
.... no cash? oh,
they’d drive me to the nearest cash-point…
well, you can guess the rest –
anything for a quiet life…
as I dozed off that evening,
flushed with anger, blushed with stupidity,
too tired to crawl to bed,
realizing that conmen have
all the skills of hypnotists,
enlightenment struck:
the next morning, I would wake up
150 dollars the poorer but morning-fresh;
‘they’ would wake up with the urgent need
to seek another mug each day.
And I realised that sublime, ruthless,
beautiful, tragic, comic, eternal justice
is - to be – to live it through  as -
just as we are; right now…
heroes or victims of ourself
.
To all poets
self-acclaimed     amateur
famous dead alive
promising
frustrated
trying hard
name it
poem hunter web
has it
we are like pets
with extrasensory flesh
sucking artificial earth's face
mask of mystery
ordinary folks
fail to see
we are pets
we have high sense
of smell
taste
sensitive furs
we can howl
scream
bellowing for serious attention
respect
understanding, love
for being an
extra ordinary human creatures
neglected by time
counter interest of
modern  era
the economic sabotage
the modern tech enthusiasm
yes we are pets
feeding foods to nourish
frustrated materialism intellect
My aunt was old and very weak
but rich up to her ears.
She had much gold and silver, too
and therefore many fears.
One night I snuck up in her house,
I'd made a special key.
I was as quiet as a mouse,
and she did not hear me.
I carried a knife, an eighteen incher
and was about to thrust it down,
when Max, that awful Scottish pincher
began to bark and growl and frown.
I killed them both in expert manner,
the knife with both hands (for extra strength) .
I wasn't sure about how deep,
that's why I slid them width and length.
When all was quiet  save my teeth
I dragged them down toward the cellar.
And dug one hole to put them in
and said 'good work there, feller'.
The gold and silver and the money
where heavy but I took it all.
And then I thought it might be funny
to give the cops a little call.
A handkerchief on the receiver,
I spoke with accent and quite loud
to the confused 'not-quite-believer'.
I told him what it was about.
And finally, before good bye
I couldn't help myself to yell
that he should look now for the guy.
That's why I'm sitting  in a cell.
My aunt was old and very weak
and rich up to her ears.
Now you, the jury, all you seek
is truth you know no fears.
You want my life but I am young,
and I was poor, you know.
Of all the laws you look among
find one and let me go!
1966
This has something to do with whom it may concern
Dear all I know, ordinary and close, new or old
Because of you, is the answer of all what happen?
I am writing, in response of what inner voice told?
By knowing all, mind is shaped with unknown pieces of ice
As well as earth's, yet earth's has its own tourist guide
He, who shows directions, guides skiing after sunrise
For mine, default memory abroad navigates with a boat guy
Remember? The first sight lesson you taught me to judge!
Even unjust court listens to convicts, who grabbed living right
Jealous friends you were! Inspiring with fibs, but those large!
Though you are many, only very few fed my life with light
I am looking forward to hearing a persuasive reply soon
Yours sincerely, CC; My cynosure and loyal friend: moon
A timid boy, that's what he was.
A nerd in school, though into sports,
observing all his hometown laws
but drifting laterally, of sorts.
His senses had developed well,
but with his parents being strict
he felt dependent  (all could tell) ,
much like a dog that has been kicked.
But something ripened in his mind,
it was a curious mix of fairness
and urgent need of being kind,
in conflict with acute awareness
that justice always must be done.
One day, while riding his new bike
in sweltering midsummer sun
he came upon a skinny tyke
in confrontation with a brute,
much older and more muscular.
The situation looked acute
and had progressed to vascular,
traumatic force, I mean red blood,
dripped from his nose into the mud.
The pair were totally mismatched,
the brute was known in town as tough.
The little guy, he must have hatched
twelve years before, it was enough!
Our nerd put on the stand his bike
and ordered Brute to stop the fight.
The answer was 'go take a hike
or I will crush you with my might.'
For those of you who've ever felt
the presence of adrenalin,
you would have loved that first quick belt,
which landed on the big guy's chin.
Without assistance from the kid
the daylights were then beaten out
of one who worked and lived amid
God-fearing people as a stout,
and tough and overbearing fellow.
His failing was lack of respect,
his colour as of then bright yellow.
He'd seek the weak and then select
the time and place where he could meet
his victims for a knuckle dusting.
Had never once met with defeat,
and on that day his eyes were lusting
for blood and glory, lots of tears.
But his opponent had decided
to shed all shyness and his fears,
and, from that moment he was guided
by Justice and the rights of man.
There was a rather quick conclusion,
our hero mumbled 'Yes, I can',
the case was clear, with no confusion.
The Brute had lost his reputation,
for, in the villages and valleys
the outcome had been a sensation.
And in the dark, sinister alleys,
the Brute was never seen again.
He had become a laughing stock
and never scared another man.
Much later Nerd became a Doc.
when i die,
you can burn
this body,
and take the ashes
to the street
down in front of
the housing projects,
where people live
day to day,
moment to moment,
just trying to survive...
or you can take them
to the countries ravaged
by starvation,
and pour them out
on the side of the road
where families are dying...
or you can take them
to any street corner
in the world, where young
boys and girls are sold like meat,
and take your hands
and rub them on their ashen faces...
or you can take them
to Washington, DC,
to where the Congress
is meeting, and pour them
on the floor, each tiny flake
of ash screaming out for justice!
The unfair injury burdened upon the shoulders of the African men and women.
The echoes of slavery constantly overshadows America’s path to the future.
Memories of yesterdays gone; times that we hope will never return again.
The cries from the hurt, forced, chained and scared treading waters to places untold.
Tossed up and down upon the waves in the belly of the smelly wooden beast,
Chained up together and stacked so tight, there is no more hope for a safe retreat.
Longing and hoping for just a few moments of quietness and rest to escape.
Quietly yearning for the days past before this humiliating enslavement of defeat.
The dreadful hours turn into days; then suddenly followed by weeks and months.
The stench of former kings and queens mingles with the rotten flesh of the dead.
The useless cargo is buried without ceremony into the darkness of the deep sea.
Days later, the wooden beast unloads its scared cargo and is paid for each live head.
The dark skinned children of Africa forced to survive upon a distant hateful land.
Slaves nightly beaten until just can not take any more so quickly submit instead.
Fed like hogs; treated worse than dogs, force to sleep with the master or the wife.
If not obedient, the slave might be starved, beaten or have a bullet put in the head.
Oh, the scars run so deep through many descendants of the former kings and queens.
Forced to survive and fend for themselves; their forced servitude no longer is needed.
Required to hide in the dark backwoods of society like a secret no one wanted to be told.
Bowing and scraping just so Mr. Johnnie will feel good and hoping not to be mistreated.
Life off the plantation, faced with the promises of reconciliation never to be delivered.
It was just a lie to make them feel good about their wrongs committed to the African.
Promises made were quickly broken and any hope for equality was chased quickly away.
The seeds of the American slave should not speak up for fear of the dread white man’s hand.
Time progressed as the dreaded years turned into frightening decades of a different century.
Multitudes died as racist countrymen hunted them down just because they wanted the right to vote.
Politicians and preachers stood idle while the children of African-American slaves were hunted down.
Some were brave enough to speak the truth; he got shot and she ended up dangling from the end of a rope.
Decades later, things misleadingly seem to have changed a little except the plantation has gotten bigger.
No longer shipped over on the wooden beast; can forget freezing inside the plantation cold, battered shed.
Life has become more complicated, the necessity has now made every American an unwilling slave.
Working hard hoping to make the American dream come true then the job relocates oversees instead.
Today, no work, crime is rising and no one is living well on the great American corporate plantation.
The greed of the masters overshadows the prosperity dreamed of as new slaves willingly came ashore.
To be ground like meat for sausage some sold their very soul on the auction block of aspiration.
Only to sadly realize they are really slaves when instead of losing profit, they are often shown the door.
The unfair injury once burdened upon the shoulders of the African men and women.
The echoes of a slave's past rapidly overtakes America’s path to the unsure future.
Memories of yesterdays gone; prosperous times that we hope will somehow return again.
The past crimes done, now, cry out for justice because the need for reconciliation still exists.
The one
who is supposed to
give me justice has
amazingly declared her heart
as a court,
she herself as a judge to hear,
her brain as a lawyer to plea,
herself witnesses to prove,
even then
her decisions are also based on
the rules and regulations
mentioned in the black book of law,
she constructed herself
as per her own willingness too.
_____________
Poem in Pashto and English By: Afzal Shauq / Edited By: Jessica R
© Afzal Shauq
I am at ease to hate but tense when hated.
I am at ease to love but tense when rivaled.
I am at ease to seek but tense when rejected.
I am at ease to cuckold but tense when cuckolded.
Can there be attitude for justice?
11.0.2008
THE father's name ye ne'er shall be told
Of my darling unborn life;
"Shame, shame," ye cry, "on the strumpet bold!"
Yet I'm an honest wife.
To whom I'm wedded, ye ne'er shall be told,
Yet he's both loving and fair;
He wears on his neck a chain of gold,
And a hat of straw doth he wear.
If scorn 'tis vain to seek to repel,
On me let the scorn be thrown.
I know him well, and he knows me well,
And to God, too, all is known.
Sir Parson and Sir Bailiff, again,
I pray you, leave me in peace!
My child it is, my child 'twill remain,
So let your questionings cease!
they say pride comes
before the fall
who will be there for you
if there is anyone at all
surely things can not go on
as they have done all along
where tyrants reign and
justice is merely feigned
don your armor and
prepare your swords
for the things i speak
are not merely words
i challenge you to fight the war
the dawn is coming and
soon you will see
your cruelty will no
longer be endured
The United States
Supreme Court
lacks creditable
determinable
unity of purpose.
Guantanamo Bay
is a geographical
miscarriage of justice.
Guantanamo Bay
sanctioned sanitized
political spin styled military;
‘is a detainment facility
of the United States
located in (Castro)   Cuba.’
The Boy Scouts
honour badges
ran summer camps
detainment areas
three Gitmo resorts
Camp Delta/ Echo
Camp Iguana but
Camp X-Ray was;
closed due to naughty
torture techniques
that’s human rights
violations
ok boys and girls?
The Justice Department?
Said its ok because
Guantanamo Bay Detention Camp
is our sneaky hidy-hole
outside U.S. legal jurisdiction!
Fuhrer Reich
Chancellor Bush
declared detainees;
were not allowed
not allowed
any protections
under humane
Geneva Conventions!
January 11,2002
the first twenty
prisoners arrived
ghost prisoners
held in hall of shame.
June 29,2006
the U.S. Supreme Court
ruled in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld;
prisoners are entitled
to minimal protections
listed under
Common Article 3
Geneva Conventions.
July 7,2006
Department of Defense
internal memo prisoners
in the future;
are entitled to protection
under Common Article 3.
June,2008
detainees held
are classified
enemy combatants
by the United States!
January 22,2009
President Barack Obama
suspends proceedings of
Guantanamo
military commission
for 120 days
detention facility
to be shut down
within the year.
But oh dear
to date
its still there!
May 20,2009
United States Senate
block funds;
needed to transfer
release prisoners
held at
Guantanamo Bay
detention camp.
November,2009
215 prisoners
remained
at Guantanamo Bay
detention camp.
December 15,2009
President Barack Obama
Presidential Memorandum;
orders preparation of
Thomson Correctional Center
in Thomson Illinois
to prepare for transferred
Guantanamo prisoners.
The first ammendment
protects the rights
of citizens individuals;
but not at the expense
of national security.
There is no greater
singular unity
of purpose;
than protecting
homeland security.
Three gangsters
international bully boys
Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld;
create an illegal US prison
unique overwhelming
in untried innocence.
The Definitive List
The Guantánamo Files
history has proven to date;
‘at least 93 percent
of the 779 men and boys
imprisoned in total’
were completely
innocent people!
Or Taliban foot soldiers
fighting an internal
inter-Muslim civil war;
with no connection to
Osama bin Laden, al-Qaeda
or international terrorism!
A war that started long
before the terrorist attacks
of September 11,2001.
Prisoners seized
as a result of
dubious intelligence;
or sold for
bounty payments!
The Motown
Supremes
sang with
greater integrity
unity of purpose.
January,2010
198 Guantanamo Bay
prisoners remained?
What future for the untried?
January 25,2010
Guantanamo Detainee
Review Task Force
is recommending...
nearly 50 detainees
be held indefinitely
without charge!
Washington Post claims
task force determined
Gitmo prisoners;
facing indefinite detention
are too dangerous
catch twenty-two
too dangerous
to be released;
not enough evidence
for a criminal trial.
Wow nine years on
the panel recommends
35 prisoners be brought;
to the U.S. to face military
or civilian fair trials!
Attorney General Eric Holder
‘decided five will be tried in
New York federal court;
for their alleged roles in
the 2001 terror attacks’!
Six to be tried by military commissions
Thomson Correctional Center
will likely house terrorism-era detainees!
Their crimes?
Allegedly spent time
at al Qaeda training;
camps in Afghanistan
prior to the 9/11 attacks!
Luckily being a marine
or a navy seal is not a crime
but linked to Taliban is!
Held without due process is legal?
In the Land of the Free
where imprisonment is double;
the next country at number two.
America has gotta be number one!
And our winners in our
State Lottery are Task Force (zap zap)
divided into three groups
‘35 who should be prosecuted  (fair trial?)
in federal or military courts’ (yea 9 years ago)
‘110 who can be released, (pardon the yawn)
either immediately or eventually’ (no hurry)
‘50 who must be detained without trial’
Apparently Gitmo detainees
‘perhaps others suspected
terrorists and war fighters
taken into U.S. custody
will now have a difficult
time challenging
their detention.’
No shit! Really?
‘Guantanamo Bay detainees
officially have limited rights in court
and presidential war powers to detain;
suspected terrorists trump the
international law of war.’
‘Officials said the detainees
cleared for release
will be repatriated or transferred to;
other countries for
possible release? ’
Is this the way we fight the war,
fight the war fight the war,
fight the war, on terrorism?
When you declare war
on words apparently it is
however it is not the way;
to win hearts and minds
to a just honourable cause!
Could it be said
the world’s policeman
has over stepped;
the boundary
of his jurisdiction?
That a few statutes
of liberty
have been transgressed?
Empire America
no longer fears
divine retribution;
God was outlawed
in public places!
Oh modern Babaylon
the Great, once so admired,
the eagle is falling;
the writing is on the wall
or on Wall Street?
Repent of your Hubris Oh America
‘M’ne! M’ne! T’kel ufarsin P’res’
‘ME’NE, ME’NE, TE’KEL, PAR’SIN’
This writing is not yet written on your wall!
Sources Quoted
Guantanamo Bay detention camp from Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.
Nearly 50 Guantanamo Bay Detainees to be Held, not Tried by Kamika Dunlap.
Daniel 5: 25.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Grey stone walls wherein confined.
A prisoner can meditate
upon the life he left behind
and curse the vagaries of fate.
What weeps upon the withered walls?
sad shadows from his distant past.
His subconscious does not rest at all.
Reminding him that time can pass.
At different rates according to
the differing of circumstance
When he knew freedom the time flew
But when confines there’s little chance
Of happiness that once knew.
Heed now the knocking on the door.
The iron door which will lead to
the gallows then to nothing more.
What glow through the barred window streams?
The last rays of the setting sun.
Never in his wildest dreams
did he believe he’d be the one.
To die when he was innocent.
For something which he had not done.
It seems that fate will not relent
and that his time is nearly gone.
He has appealed to no avail.
The court confirms that he must die.
The stoutest heart is bound to quail
when facing death. Though he will try
to show that he is not afraid.
There is still chance of a reprieve
Which would correct the error made.
He has no choice but to believe.
That some last minute miracle
will save him from the hangman’s noose.
He knows it is illogical
its all he has. He cannot choose.
To just accept and give up hope.
Although it is improbable.
He might escape the hangman’s rope
He still believes it’s possible.
Who’s are the footsteps he can hear.
which hesitate outside his door.
It opens and confirms his fear.
The chaplain and the governor.
19/08/2009
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
Bloods shake in the wind
staining the invisibility of the air
spraying spectator's sight
of awareness
not to tolerate
salvage-convict
alleged criminals
found hog-tied seen in public
chop-chop bodies
with random bullets
bathe with own red grease
howling justice
begging conscience
only nightmares appear!
A Dealer, bewitched by gain-promising dreams
Settled down near my Station, to trade with my Teams,
And to sell to, my men too! from whom, through the nose,
Until then, I had screw'd just what prices I chose;
And for this, to be sure, I so hated the man,
That I swore ne'er to rest till I'd settled some plan
Whereby in the Lockup to cleverly cram him!
And so to my Super the matter I put,
Who thereupon 'found' a sheep's head near his hut,
And the 'how came it there?' was sufficient to damn him,
The Beak before who I then lugg'd him, as you
May suppose, being neck-deep in Squattery too.
'Twas a beautiful Hearing, as noted at large
By the Clerk (who was bonuss'd)-sheep-stealing the charge;
'Twould make your hearts laugh in the Records to see
How we bullied him out of his wits! -I say we,
Because while on this side against him 1 banged,
On the other the Beak said he ought to be hanged,
For a gallows-grained, scandalous son of transgression!
And committing him then-the case being so plain,
We sent him three hundred miles 'down on the chain'
To his Trial-and eke to his 'acquittal', at Session!
For what care we Squatters for Law on a push?
And for Justice! what has she to do with the Bush?
black man
in them poverty chains
cant get no justice
in them sterile white courts.
blue collar man
in them grimy working chains
cant get no justice
in them insulated courts.
freedom man
in them speak out chains
cant get no justice
in them walled off courts.
poor woman, ha!
in them second class chains
cant get no justice
in them man-god courts.
you and me
in them angry tired chains
cant get no justice
in them fictional courts!
(This poem is dedicated to Hollister #22.)
Delayed justice is better than no justice.
The world will always be round.
Facts cannot be altered; prejudice
Is a major impediment to reach sound
Justice. Justice is all we want,
Fairness is what we fight for,
Justice is what we cry for,
Fairness is what we want.
All lives are special.
All God's children are beautiful.
All colors are essential,
To make the rainbow normal.
Justice, Justice is what we want,
Fairness is what we fight for.
Equality under the law is critical.
Equal shade can only make the rainbow
More beautiful and more impartial;
No justice will always be a Big No, No.
Justice is what we cry for,
Fairness is what we want.
The world will always be round.
Finally, we can hear the sound
Of the bells. Justice is around
The corner; she is upward bound.
Delayed justice is better than no justice.
Thou hast no lightnings, O thou Just!
Or I their force should know;
And, if thou strike me into dust,
My soul approves the blow.
The heart, that values less its ease
Than it adores thy ways,
In thine avenging anger sees
A subject of its praise.
Pleased I could lie, concealed and lost,
In shades of central night;
Not to avoid thy wrath, thou know'st,
But lest I grieve thy sight.
Smite me, O thou, whom I provoke!
And I will love thee still:
The well deserved and righteous stroke
Shall please me, though it kill.
Am I not worthy to sustain
The worst thou canst devise;
And dare I seek thy throne again,
And meet thy sacred eyes?
Far from afflicting, thou art kind;
And, in my saddest hours,
An unction of thy grace I find,
Pervading all my powers.
Alas! thou sparest me yet again;
And, when thy wrath should move,
Too gentle to endure my pain,
Thou soothest me with thy love.
I have no punishment to fear;
But, ah! that smile from thee
Imparts a pang far more severe
Than woe itself would be.
The man is thought a knave, or fool.
Or bigot, plotting crime,
Who, for the advancement of his kind.
Is wiser than his time.
For him the hemlock shall distil;
For him the axe be bared;
For him the gibbet shall be built;
For him the stake prepared.
Him shall the scorn and wrath of men
Pursue with deadly aim;
And malice, envy, spite, and lies,
ShaU desecrate his name.
But Truth shall conquer at the last.
For round and round we run;
And ever the Right comes uppermost,
And ever is Justice done.
Pace through thy cell, old Socrates,
Cheerily to and fro;
Trust to the impulse of thy soul,
And let the poison flow.
They may shatter to earth the lamp of clay
That holds a light divine,
But they cannot quench the fire of thought
By any such deadly wine.
They cannot blot thy spoken words
From the memory of man
By all the poison ever was brew'd
Since time its course began.
To-day abhorred, to-morrow adored,
So round and round we run;
And ever the Truth comes uppermost.
And ever is Justice done.
Plod in thy cave grey anchorite;
Be wiser than thy peers;
Augment the range of human power,
And trust to coming years.
They may call thee wizard, and monk accursed,
And load thee with dispraise;
Thou wert bom five hundred years too soon
For the comfort of thy days;
But not too soon for humankind.
Time hath reward in store;
And the demons of our sires become
The saints that we adore.
The blind can see, the slave is lord,
So round and round we run;
And ever the wrong is proved to be wrongs
And ever is Justice done.
Keep, Galileo, to thy thought,
And nerve thy soul to bear;
They may gloat o'er the senseless words they wring
From the pangs of thy despair;
They may veil their eyes, but they cannot hide
The sun's meridian glow;
The heel of a priest may tread thee down.
And a tyrant work thee woe;
But never a truth has been destroy'd;
They may curse it and call it crime;
Pervert and betray, or slander and slay,
Its teachers for a time;
Bat the sunshine aye shall light the sky.
As round and round we run;
And the Truth shall ever come uppermost,
And Justice shall be done.
And live there now such men as these-
With thoughts like the great of old?
Many have died in their misery,
And left their thought untold;
And many live, and are rank'd as mad,
And placed in the cold world's ban.
For sending their bright far-seeing souls
Three centuries in the van.
They toil in penury and grief,
Unknown, if not malign'd;
Forlorn, forlorn, hearing the scorn
Of the meantest of mankind!
But yet the world goes round and round,
And the genial seasons run;
And ever the Truth comes uppermost.
And ever is Justice done.
Fairness and justice are                                              Just two nominal words on                                             Our earth because we completely                                       Lack them anytime and anywhere,                                      They are just two words in shape,                                    But we lack them totally in content,                                 They are like you dream to get them                                   When you need them in life, so we                                    Pay very high price when we lack them.
Mute nation, counting coffins,
Stands dazed by the pyre,
Waiting for the next victims,
To be put on pyre.
Country deaf and dumb,
Shrouded in fear, numb,
Wailing widows, children orphaned,
Flashed across the streets like lambs.
Up on a platform,
A wolf in whites, roaring,
Loudspeaker blowing,
Jai ho, jai ho, jai ho,
Nation salutes the resolute spirit.
Living race can’t wait five years,
Think and decide today.
From:
DR. Yogesh SHARMA
Forget Not Divine Justice!
What discrepancies
Be corrected by what measures
We don't know,
But divine justice sure will
Do rectify them one day or other!
Man made justice
May be duped by loop holes of law,
But divine justice
Will surely take revenge
To bring order to world one day!
Till then the boat
Will only go with the stream current
And who can render
Justice to all the crimes
That are piling up on?
We can only
Just wait and watch ever
What's going on
Before our own eyes here to
learn lessons from experience!
Freedom, Justice and Equality
sat down to discuss their differences
as to who in the final differentiation
was best for the Citizens.
Equality spoke stating 'Every human being
is to be seen as equal.
Classes, Kings, and Robber Barons
have mounted historically over-weening excesses.
From them sprung oppression, slavery,
disease and poverty
other multiple negatives
in the sad human panoply.
Society rebelled against them
all hoisting my banner
which reads:
'What We Need is Equality'
All agreed this was so
for a time
with Justice finally noting
'Well Equality all you say is true
but also mark
how easy it is to confuse Economic Opportunity
with Political Equality.
Some systems have one
but surely not the other.
These two, of course, are not the same;
in fact you Equality are perfectly
compatible with Perfect Slavery.
All you have to is treat
all the slaves the same!
'Besides' Justice said 'Economic Opportunity
merely addresses the beginning of the race.
What of the middle and the end;
is Perfect Inequality tolerated there
as millions sink into poverty? '
'No' Justice sighed, 'Equality you are a good plank
but you do not over-arc and don't really solve
important problems.
I, Justice, am needed to balance all the ills
you're not able to address.'
Justice shifted slightly in her dark robes
and spoke of that need to protect Citizens
utilizing legal and governing rules.
'Rule by law
not women or men is better
grafted to all systems:
Balancing and adjusting many of the
the ills Undemocracy brings.'
'Justice is centerpiece
where all the values of the citizens
are sifted and set aright-
enforcements of the Covenants.
It is I,
through which
all society is possible.'
Freedom spoke slowly
gathering verbal momentum:
'Justice you are mystical
but in the end precisely note that
laws are made by men and women
and is therefore rule by Judges.
This does not seem to me
to be much better than rule by Kings.'
'No mere Justice
does not work for me.
Clearly the object we all seek,
is Freedom- Me.
Justice merely refers to
misdeeds but not the essence
of what we seek.
That would be me Freedom.
For here is where all potential is protected,
the Cauldron of the Probabilities.
Freedom is what we fight for,
you, Justice, we merely sue for-
if we have the money
to pay your attorneys! '
Equality smiled wryly at Freedom's joke saying
'but you Freedom have many aliases
many definitions labeled;
which Freedom are you today:
Freedom From
or Freedom to
Free speech
or the Freedom of the Road
or merely Freedom From All Rules?
And I would note you proclaim
Liberty For All
while tolerating
Tyranny while at Work.
You Americans define Freedom
as Freedom for Yourself
what of Freedom for Others,
in fact, the Freedom of the World.
You fall silent there.'
Outside a crowd gathered,
Justice leaned to part the curtains,
describing the outside scene.
There was Ethics and Morality,
Nature
God and Divinity
the usual crowd all clamoring
to be heard
or to gain entry.
Freedom said
'they have right to their say.'
Equality mused 'they all make equal claims.'
Justice said 'if given the chance
like vigilante villagers
they'll be pounding closed-fisted
at every citizens door.'
They all agreed
and sipped their tea
until at the appointed hour
when key in lock
admitted the rightful owner of the house.
Citizens Us
was framed in the doorway Portal
with her constant companion Social Covenant;
They entered
with Citizen saying
'You get all three of you
if you chose Citizen Community
because there you get all of you
plus me.
What happened to Trayvon Martin shouldn’t happen to any 1,
And yet, this killing is not the worse thing that has been done,
Weekend before George Zimmerman’s not guilty of any & all,
51 Black on Black gunshots 40 wounded 11 would fatally fall.
City of Chicago, where Blacks kill more Blacks, George who?
Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton don’t they have enough to do?
Rainbow Coalition & Operation P.U.S.H. is the head quarters,
Hey Reverend Jackson first clean up within your own borders.
This tragedy is being protested by thousands of American Blacks,
With not one single rally regarding those deadly Chicago attacks,
Detroit, South Central, Philly, Harlem, Houston, Gary & Buffalo,
The tip of the Iceberg for the killing of Blacks if you didn’t know.
Trayvon is one, in the above cities hundreds may die every week,
For a single case the DOJ is asked to investigate, truth we seek?
Truth is, Black on Black murders should be a more heinous crime,
Is it so commonplace that Blacks expect it as it’s done all the time?
Rap videos depict violence common as Chevrolet & Mom’s apple pie?
Inner city neighborhoods you’re not expected to graduate but to die?
Oh, Carl and Louis Stokes, Lawyers, Mayor, Congress, Judge but who?
Instead strive to be drug dealers, pimps, rappers, instead of you two?
DOJ investigates anything it should re-open the case of LaVena Lynn,
Think Trayvon was an atrocity? Read what happened to PFC Johnson,
Find it then forward the information to Obama, he’s had nothing to say,
Because he’s too busy making personal phone calls congratulating Gays.
A LA FRANCE
France! ô belle contrée, ô terre généreuse,
Que les dieux complaisants formaient pour être heureuse,
Tu ne sens point du nord les glaçantes horreurs,
Le midi de ses feux t'épargne les fureurs.
Tes arbres innocents n'ont point d'ombres mortelles;
Ni des poisons épars dans tes herbes nouvelles
Ne trompent une main crédule; ni tes bois
Des tigres frémissants ne redoutent la voix;
Ni les vastes serpents ne traînent sur tes plantes
En longs cercles hideux leurs écailles sonnantes.
Les chênes, les sapins et les ormes épais
En utiles rameaux ombragent tes sommets,
Et de Beaune et d'Aï les rives fortunées,
Et la riche Aquitaine, et les hauts Pyrénées,
Sous leurs bruyants pressoirs font couler en ruisseaux
Des vins délicieux mûris sur leurs coteaux.
La Provence odorante et de Zéphire aimée
Respire sur les mers une haleine embaumée,
Au bord des flots couvrant, délicieux trésor,
L'orange et le citron de leur tunique d'or,
Et plus loin, au penchant des collines pierreuses,
Forme la grasse olive aux liqueurs savoureuses,
Et ces réseaux légers, diaphanes habits,
Où la fraîche grenade enferme ses rubis.
Sur tes rochers touffus la chèvre se hérisse,
Tes prés enflent de lait la féconde génisse,
Et tu vois tes brebis, sur le jeune gazon,
Épaissir le tissu de leur blanche toison.
Dans les fertiles champs voisins de la Touraine,
Dans ceux où l'Océan boit l'urne de la Seine,
S'élèvent pour le frein des coursiers belliqueux.
Ajoutez cet amas de fleuves tortueux:
L'indomptable Garonne aux vagues insensées,
Le Rhône impétueux, fils des Alpes glacées,
La Seine au flot royal, la Loire dans son sein
Incertaine, et la Saône, et mille autres enfin
Qui, nourrissant partout, sur tes nobles rivages,
Fleurs, moissons et vergers, et bois et pâturages,
Rampent au pied des murs d'opulentes cités
Sous les arches de pierre à grand bruit emportés.
Dirai-je ces travaux, source de l'abondance,
Ces ports où des deux mers l'active bienfaisance
Amène les tributs du rivage lointain
Que visite Phoebus le soir ou le matin?
Dirai-je ces canaux, ces montagnes percées,
De bassins en bassins ces ondes amassées
Pour joindre au pied des monts l'une et l'autre Téthys,
Et ces vastes chemins en tous lieux départis,
Où l'étranger, à l'aise achevant son voyage,
Pense au nom des Trudaine et bénit leur ouvrage?
Ton peuple industrieux est né pour les combats.
Le glaive, le mousquet n'accablent point ses bras.
Il s'élance aux assauts, et son fer intrépide
Chassa l'impie Anglais, usurpateur avide.
Le ciel les fit humains, hospitaliers et bons,
Amis des doux plaisirs, des festins, des chansons;
Mais, faibles, opprimés, la tristesse inquiète
Glace ces chants joyeux sur leur bouche muette,
Pour les jeux, pour la danse appesantit leurs pas,
Renverse devant eux les tables des repas,
Flétrit de longs soucis, empreinte douloureuse,
Et leur front et leur âme. O France! trop heureuse
Si tu voyais tes biens, si tu profitais mieux
Des dons que tu reçus de la bonté des cieux!
Vois le superbe Anglais, l'Anglais dont le courage
Ne s'est sentais qu'aux lois d'un sénat libre et sage,
Qui t'épie, et, dans l'Inde éclipsant ta splendeur,
Sur tes fautes sans nombre élève sa grandeur.
Il triomphe, il t'insulte. Oh! combien tes collines
Tressailliraient de voir réparer tes ruines,
Et pour la liberté donneraient sans regrets
Et leur vin, et leur huile, et leurs belles forêts!
J'ai vu dans tes hameaux la plaintive misère,
La mendicité blême et la douleur amère.
Je t'ai vu dans tes biens, indigent laboureur,
D'un fisc avare et dur maudissant la rigueur,
Versant aux pieds des grands des larmes inutiles,
Tout trempé de sueurs pour toi-même infertiles,
Découragé de vivre, et plein d'un juste effroi
De mettre au jour des fils malheureux comme toi.
Tu vois sous les soldats les villes gémissantes;
Corvée, impôts rongeurs, tributs, taxes pesantes,
Le sel, fils de la terre, ou même l'eau des mers,
Sources d'oppression et de fléaux divers;
Mille brigands, couverts du nom sacré du prince,
S'unir à déchirer une triste province,
Et courir à l'envi, de son sang altérés,
Se partager entre eux ses membres déchirés!
O sainte Égalité! dissipe nos ténèbres,
Renverse les verrous, les bastilles funèbres.
Le riche indifférent, dans un char promené,
De ces gouffres secrets partout environné,
Rit avec les bourreaux, s'il n'est bourreau lui-même,
Près de ces noirs réduits de la misère extrême,
D'une maîtresse impure achète les transports,
Chante sur des tombeaux, et boit parmi des morts.
Malesherbes, Turgot, ô vous en qui la France
Vit luire, hélas! en vain, sa dernière espérance;
Ministres dont le coeur a connu la pitié,
Ministres dont le nom ne s'est point oublié,
Ah! si de telles mains, justement souveraines,
Toujours de cet empire avaient tenu les rênes!
L'équité clairvoyante aurait régné sur nous;
Le faible aurait osé respirer près de vous;
L'oppresseur, évitant d'armer d'injustes plaintes,
Sinon quelque pudeur, aurait ou quelques craintes;
Le délateur impie, opprimé par la faim,
Serait mort dans l'opprobre, et tant d'hommes enfin,
A l'insu de nos lois, à l'insu, du vulgaire,
Foudroyés sons les coups d'un pouvoir arbitraire,
De cris non entendus, de funèbres sanglots,
Ne feraient point gémir les voûtes des cachots.
Non, je ne veux plus vivre en ce séjour servile!
J'irai, j'irai bien loin me chercher un asile,
Un asile à ma vie en son paisible cours,
Une tombe à ma cendre à la fin de mes jours,
Où d'un grand au coeur dur l'opulence homicide
Du sang d'un peuple entier ne sera point avide,
Et ne me dira point, avec un rire affreux,
Qu'ils se plaignent sans cesse et qu'ils sont trop heureux;
Où, loin des ravisseurs, la main cultivatrice
Recueille les dons d'une terre propice;
Où mon coeur, respirant sous un ciel étranger,
Ne verra plus des maux qu'il ne peut soulager;
Où mes yeux, éloignés des publiques misères,
Ne verront plus partout les larmes de mes frères,
Et la pâle indigence à la mourante voix,
Et les crimes puissants qui font trembler les lois.
Toi donc, Équité sainte, ô toi, vierge adorée,
De nos tristes climats pour longtemps ignorée,
Daigne du haut des cieux goûter le libre encens
D'une lyre au coeur chaste, aux transports innocents,
Qui ne saura jamais, par des voeux mercenaires,
Flatter, à prix d'argent, des faveurs arbitraires,
Mais qui rendra toujours, par amour et par choix,
Un noble et pur hommage aux appuis de tes lois.
De voeux pour les humains tous ses chants retentissent:
La vérité l'enflamme, et ses cordes frémissent
Quand l'air qui l'environne auprès d'elle a porté
Le doux nom des vertus et de la liberté.
i am, become...
i am the African slave
working in the deep Mississippi sun;
his eyes, his muscles, his back, his heart,
all shouting 'freedom'...
i am the college student,
hanging from a tree
in the sixties south,
who died for his conviction...
i am the minister
who joined the protest for peace,
dignity, and equality,
his face bashed in by the officer's club,
handcuffed in the back of the van...
i am the turning of the seasons
through prison bars,
the watered down coffee,
the tiny cell.
i am the one ridiculed and rundown
by the conservative righteous right,
for standing up for individual rights.
i am the young family left stranded
on food stamps and unemployment checks,
their future teetering...
i am the illegal immigrant beaten
in the Arizona desert,
left to die by the side of the road....
i am the working poor,
the honest and true,
driven to desperation...
i am hard and coiled,
i am America crying out for justice, , ,
i am, become...
I am Trayvon Martin
Yo soy Trayvon Martin
Je suis Trayvon Martin
Mwen se Trauvon Martin
For a long time and even now,
Justice
Is never irrelevant to us.
Very often, we wonder how
Come we are always
The victims, the culprits,
The ones who get dumped in the pits
In the shallow graves.
We get killed by being in the wrong place
At the wrong time.
We get mace on our face
For no reasons.
A horrendous crime
Is being perpetrated this season
By the namby pamby warden,
Who should be in jail, in prison.
This is high treason
For not respecting valor,
Uniforms, candor
And peers.
No one cheers,
Once ignorance
And malfeasance
Show up at the door
Of the poor
Victims.
Everyone screams,
Because the injustice
Is blatantly obvious.
This is somewhat peculiar.
The skin color
Of the Scholar
Is the matter.
The brother and the sister
Finally got a job,
But when the stock broker
Can no longer rob
The poor clients;
The brother and the sister,
Who were last hired,
Are the first saints
To be fired.
Our offspring is profiled
From the crib;
Our progenitor is defiled
Anon, at the bottom of the crypt.
Justice
Is never irrelevant to us.
Copyright© March,2012, Hebert Logerie, All Rights Reserved
Hébert Logerie is the author of several poetry books:
‘Etincelles de l'Amour', ‘Monts et Vallées de l'Amour',
‘Sparkles of Love' and ‘Mounts and Valleys of Love'
https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359
http: //www.poemhunter.com/hebert-logerie
Gardener:
Sir, I encountered Death
Just now among our roses
Thin as a scythe he stood there.
I knew him by his pictures
He had on his black coat
Black gloves, and broad black hat.
I think he would have spoken,
Seeing his mouth stood open.
Big it was, with white teeth.
As soon as he beckoned, I ran.
I ran untill I found you.
Sir, I'm quitting my job.
I want to see my sons
Once more before I die.
I want to see California.
Master:
Sir, you must be that stranger
Who threatened my gardener.
This is my property, sir.
I welcome only friends here.
Death:
Sir, I knew your father.
And we were friends at the end.
As for your gardener,
I did not threaten him.
Old men mistake my gestures.
I only ment to ask him
To show me to his master.
I take it you are he?
Is capital punishment justice or is it revenge?
This is the question that I want to defend.
Is it really justice if you have to kill someone?
Or is the killing of a being just for your fun?
Is a murder really justified if the culprit spends less time in jail?
If so then it seems capital punishment is just easy bail.
They should be punished and not given an out of jail card,
All capital punishment is doing is spending money, cold and hard.
Wanting them to die doesn’t seem like justice but revenge?
It leaves blood on your hands when there life ends.
Life is full of trials and tribulations this is a must,
But if you kill a man then it won’t make life any more just.
Justice is using authority to give a fair decree,
But intended death to a being doesn’t seem fair to me.
Revenge is to satisfy in retaliation,
But death’s your one hit wonder, one satisfaction.
So I will always choose the criminals to defend,
Leaving you with your decision: justice or revenge?
Justice 2
What’s justice?
A child asked his mother?
A head shake
What’s justice?
A child asked her father.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Elderly in pension had question.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Patient asked in a bed, hospital.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Children of divorce talked, conversed.
A head shake
What’s justice?
Lover asked when meeting man in bars.
No head-shake
What’s justice?
At return she told kids, hungry at table:
In tongue of sunset-less empire it’s:
Just Ice
justice and equality...
two very human dreams,
and the hope that allows us
to bring children into the world!
cannot be defined by color,
nationality, religion, or sex...
cannot be regulated by class,
cannot be different for those
who have and those who have not...
cannot allow poverty,
cannot allow hunger,
cannot allow oppression...
to continue!
must be worked for...
everyone has a part,
everyone has a responsibility.
respect,
dignity,
hard work,
sharing of needs...
we are destined to be family.
nations are egos,
we are citizens of the world.
the man fighting to feed his family
across the ocean is your brother.
the ones you're dropping bombs on
are your children.
the ones you kill crossing the border
looking for hope have the faces of god.
justice and equality...
think about it!
The right way to bestow, the glow way to Integrity,
If you wanna bloom, build a habit of Honesty,
Equality is the basic theme of Mankind,
Who is white who is black, it doesn't  Mind,
Justice! in each path of your Life,
It will transform your all acts Nice,
You not need to bow, don’t you Surrender,
Don’t be putative, Be the power of Thunder,
We the people of one God! Why there is difference!
Beat the Inequality, and place The Justice Preference!
Rich or Poor , Low or High, Don’t matter where You Are!
Will go the same grave same as martyred  Soldier after the War!
We are fighting for justice and peace for all,
And our young men are answering the call.
They are giving their lives for you and for me,
On land, in the air, and out on the sea.
They are brave and strong, and have faith in God.
And are fighting for the land their forefathers trod.
If they can fight for justice and peace.
Let's not let our efforts cease. Let us back home, toil-from light to dark
So our boys, can hit their mark,
This justice and peace, although it is old,
Is a tale that years and centuries unfold.
Our country was founded upon this claim,
And it's our privilege to keep it the same.
This was and conflict, I know will soon end.
For justice and peace; to God are akin.
How can we speak of justice?
Mercy
Righteousness
How do we proclaim it aloud?
Speak up against the cruelty?
Lord can we cry out for mercy?
For those that die daily,
For the helpless children
Those sold into slavery
For abuse and violence
Mercy
Mercy
Mercy
What we need is your mercy
Justice
Fair treatment
Human dignity restored
Yes, that’s what they need
Lord forgive us for our cruelty towards our brothers and sisters
Towards our fellow human beings
Forgive us for we are a corrupt city
An unjust society
A flawed nation
Forgive us when we mistreat the innocent
Mock the hungry and the destitute
And when we disregard the plight of the poor
And return home to our feasts and our comfy furniture
Show us how to walk in your light
How to live right,
Loving justice and mercy
And walking in humility everyday
Jesus we need your mercy
And if no one else will say this,
Then I will:
We need your cross and your salvation
It is true, fellow citizens,
That my old docket lying there for years
On a shelf above my head and over
The seat of justice, I say it is true
That docket had an iron rim
Which gashed my baldness when it fell --
(Somehow I think it was shaken loose
By the heave of the air all over town
When the gasoline tank at the canning works
Blew up and burned Butch Weldy) --
But let us argue points in order,
And reason the whole case carefully:
First I concede my head was cut,
But second the frightful thing was this:
The leaves of the docket shot and showered
Around me like a deck of cards
In the hands of a sleight of hand performer.
And up to the end I saw those leaves
Till I said at last, "Those are not leaves,
Why, can't you see they are days and days
And the days and days of seventy years?
And why do you torture me with leaves
And the little entries on them?
A nation raped…
Mute, stunned, indignant
World watched, ashamed…
Cruelty, hate, evil
(Put to shame, even devil)
Drives the mentally ill…
Justice delayed
While we, a messiah await
Or resigned to fate…
Does God Wait
For good sense to prevail…
And love conquers hate…
Justice denied
Shocked, aggrieved wail…
While accused hide…
Who does one blame?
Deeply reflect,
And introspect….
Can justice be delayed under any circumstances?
Numerous cases can be sighted for instances
Can that not be amounted as justice denied?
Well, conscious should always bite if it is laid
Constitution enshrined for liberty and freedom
Forefathers too considered and thought it as wisdom
Sacrifice made for freedom struggle should not go as waste
To live with true freedom was need of an hour and taste
Still many loop holes remain to be plugged
System is facing criticism and it is wholly bugged
Justice is sold as revealed with emergence of new facts
it is cleverly wrapped in words with simple tact
Under official ret act, nothing can be made public or revealed
Under the oath of secrecy it is cleverly concealed
Normal man can’t dream for getting immediate relief
Loosing faith and trust as mark of disbelief
Innocents are sometimes hung for nothing
Trial summary drags on for years to prove something
History teeters and goons rule the scene
it has been  made laughing stock which is never witnessed or seen
Conscience like things has remained on paper
Evidences or approver turn hostile and proof is tempered
Solitary examples shine and keep the system alive
Does the system require honest trial for self and to be revived?
Politicians have corrupted and citizens too have favored
Easy ill gotten money plays part with fragrance and flavor
who would not want to become rich and famous?
Leading lavish life with style and look so glamorous
Death sentence can’t be implemented for simple reason
Wrong move for computation of term for person tried under treason
Still some of us praise the system and sing for liberty
How can it grow amidst the illiteracy and poverty?
Nothing can l change under the light and sun
we will tear it apart by making mockery and fun
Streets will have deserted look under the shadow of gun
People may seek refuge under constant fear and run
Such may be the scene in coming days
You will be caught in cross fire in strange ways
You will have no high hope in bright rays
It may be altogether different if we don’t pay (attention)
No one should be deprived of his/her legitimate dues
System should not be meant for only few
Why is it so that only influential get scoot free
Why other have to sit recite the hymns under the tree?
Let holy principles of justice be upheld
Let innocents be not prosecuted and held
It may or can have legitimate delay
This may send the message across and relay
Prison
Dark room
No light
Human life breathes
Murder charge
Old age
Innocent soul
Suffers justice call
Hard labor
To work as stone cutter
Bones crack after days work
Real pain and eyes spark
Is this the life to suffer?
Is this the punishment to offer?
Prison sentence before trial
Human abuse with justice denial
Let us abandon then our gardens and go home
And sit in the sitting-room
Shall the larkspur blossom or the corn grow under this cloud?
Sour to the fruitful seed
Is the cold earth under this cloud,
Fostering quack and weed, we have marched upon but cannot
conquer;
We have bent the blades of our hoes against the stalks of them.
Let us go home, and sit in the sitting room.
Not in our day
Shall the cloud go over and the sun rise as before,
Beneficent upon us
Out of the glittering bay,
And the warm winds be blown inward from the sea
Moving the blades of corn
With a peaceful sound.
Forlorn, forlorn,
Stands the blue hay-rack by the empty mow.
And the petals drop to the ground,
Leaving the tree unfruited.
The sun that warmed our stooping backs and withered the weed
uprooted—
We shall not feel it again.
We shall die in darkness, and be buried in the rain.
What from the splendid dead
We have inherited —
Furrows sweet to the grain, and the weed subdued —
See now the slug and the mildew plunder.
Evil does overwhelm
The larkspur and the corn;
We have seen them go under.
Let us sit here, sit still,
Here in the sitting-room until we die;
At the step of Death on the walk, rise and go;
Leaving to our children's children the beautiful doorway,
And this elm,
And a blighted earth to till
With a broken hoe.
i spit hammers and nails,
can taste bullets and swords.
my eyes are the bodies
of the innocent that lay dying.
my fingers touch the ribs
of small children starving.
my tongue's made of coal dust,
oil, and death by profit!
my ears hear the cry of freedom
from the cells of the oppressor.
my heart sleeps neath the bridge
with the homeless family at night.
my fists smash the lie and the liar both,
my arms carry the weight
of the working class's lives.
covered with the stink of poverty,
i shed the clothes of pretensions,
apathy, and human greed.
and my desire grows hard
when i see a better day...
my back bears the stripes
of man's mistakes and failures...
i cry justice, i am equality,
i breathe compassion, i am human!
The bards of old their stories told.
In rhyming verse they had writ,
to entertain the young and old.
Sometimes they stretched the truth a bit.
To please their current lordly host
They would extol his bravery
and of his prowess loudly boast.
Although their words lacked verity.
They spread the news from far and near.
Tailored to suit their audience.
Some news which they were glad to hear.
The bards received in recompense.
The recognition and respect
accorded to them for their skill.
A place to sleep as you’d expect
and food and drink enough to fill.
Always treated as a welcome guest
in manor house or lordly hall
They could fulfil their host’s requests
with stories suitable for all.
Love stories for the ladies ears
and  tales of war to suit the men
Old tales for those advanced in years
which could recall their youth again.
The bards were guardians of the lore
which was passed down from bard to bard.
The masters of bryhonic law
Which they had studied long and hard.
It took them one and twenty years
to earn the title of a bard.
Long years of travel sweat and tears.
Authority was their reward.
All men were subject to the law
from kitchen churl to lordly knight
All disputes then were brought before
a bard to judge as was their right.
He listened to the evidence
then made his judgement openly
Applied the law with common sense
but always judged impartially.
But that was then unlike today.
When every man obeyed the law.
But sadly we have gone astray
There is no justice any more.
The laws today are not applied
to rich and poor men equally.
All thoughts of justice cast
aside in our corrupt society.
A guilty man can go Scott free
when clever lawyers twist the laws
and find some technicality.
For which they are well paid of course.
There are no bryhon bards today
and poets get but scant respect
But still we try to show the way
We must protest poetically.
The conscience of society
that has to be our modern role.
To outline with our poetry
Justice for all should be our goal.
2-Feb-09
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
Justice, that once moved in months, rare in years,
Took a short slumber if not sleep in snores,
Now goes for grey decades if not full scores
To gather enough steam to get in gears,
And when delivered in endless long text,
It looks as if for generation next!
_____________________________________________ _______
Reflections | 05.06.08 |
Millions of us stand on the roads,
not waiting for the transports to board,
just searching the peace that is lost,
opportunities missed and the destiny tainted.
rugs are cleaner and not with punctures,
in certain place, but looking at these juncture,
why are these people let to wear such attires,
Why aren't they cared and seen as equal?
When sugar, grains and spices are procured,
value their sweat to value these commodities,
Why do the rich want to buy these necessities,
at the price of these poor countries?
The beautiful blouse that we wear,
the elegant shirts that covered with the coats,
branded ties, meticulous belts and shoes,
believe me, might have been made,
with 25 cents per hour petty salary,
their children are alive half empty,
while our children are obese and naughty,
these people do not have to go to hell,
as they already live a life of hell,
where they drink untreated water,
frequent power cuts, clogged drains,
herbal remedies, god given diseases,
entertained by the music of mosquitoes.
A Corolla came speeding, half asleep,
Right on pavement— a family's sole home
Under the sky's wide open dome,
And killed a few right in their sleep.
There was much that the media said
On the pitfalls of partying,
Of too much drinking,
As on drunken driving,
On dangers of heedless speeding,
But li'le was said in victim's aid.
In today's times truth is a helpless maid,
Not fair that flies on legal wings.
And much was said and argued
In favour and against,
But justice is a maid so prude
That truth must be red-handed best.
So after much was said,
The issue was threadbare laid,
When all that came went home,
Few thought of the hapless few
Sleeping under open dome,
And none alas had a clue.
________________________________________ ______
Happenings | 02.11.06 |
Laws are after all laws
With lot many lacuna and flaws
As counter system works
It is battle with clever words
“We, in the name of lord” lawyers argue
The accused stand silently in queue
The battle is fought without army
The client is in hurry and unhappy
No poor can afford such battle
He has no guts to carry on struggle
So they avoid such wrangle
It is as good as adding to more troubles
We hear conflicting reports in public
“The justice is sold” says alcoholic
No one believes his words
We have to wait only and look forwards
The cases are dragged on for years
This creates lots of agony and fear
Whole is life is spent in waiting
You get extension with more dating
Drug carriers and mafias invite
Most of the time to fight
Politicians carry importance
Their cases are heard at once
“Justice delayed is justice denied”
The sentence is alright but hopes are bellied
Justice if for rich and for those who can afford
You just take oath to speak right word
What is justice?
This unapparent fairness
Supposed to combine rather than divide
Just a word that likes to hide
This unapparent fairness
What is justice?
Justice, is between you and if you are righteous
And you might just be righteous,
But you don’t have the intelligence of the truths of real justice.
Justice, is merely impossible because we have created injustice.
And just this.
It may be a tongue twister to read
But justice is a twist of the tongue indeed
A twist of the lung, you can’t breathe
A twist of the fun, full of hypocrisy and greed
A fake term misused, abused of its creed
Our mouths say justice, but injustice is what we really speak
And just this.
What is justice?
This unapparent fairness
Supposed to combine rather than divide
Just a word that likes to hide
This unapparent fairness
What is justice?
Just a word, and just this.
Check the performance by Aadil Malik by searching 'Justice is Just This Aadil Malik' on YouTube.
Justice Justice
Where is it
In close door or
In open court
Justice justice
Nowhere you can
Trace it out
In any form anywhere
Justice Justice
Speak not about it
It is disgusting
It is boring
Only push back
Fire rushes
No smile but cries.
Beware the might of the Justice League
If you're hellbent on dark intrigue!
Don't seek to harm, to kill or maim!
Don't think that you'll escape the blame!
They'll hunt you down by night and day!
They'll turn the tables! You're their prey!
They'll not give in like others do!
They'll cross the Cosmos just for you!
No secret hideout stops their quest!
They'll persevere! They'll do their best!
They'll scan, they'll plan, they'll wear you down!
They'll make you fret and fear and frown!
They'll use brute force! They'll fight to win!
They'll brave all odds to conquer sin!
You'll rue the day crime came to tempt!
They'll give you nightmares yet undreamt!
They'll chase you here, they'll chase you there!
They'll chase you, land, or sea, or air!
They'll make you sick! You'll spit and curse!
For you, there's no safe universe!
There's nothing that defeats their power!
They'll make you cringe and crawl and cower!
So don't be foolish! Don't be brave!
If I were you, I'd just behave!
Why tempt Fate's hand? Why go to jail?
If you cross them, you're bound to fail!
If you're hellbent on dark intrigue -
BEWARE THE MIGHT OF THE JUSTICE LEAGUE!
Forceful protagonist
File themselves away
Circles within a maze
Honor one shant betray
Divisive the tenets
Position-straight line
Home-made places
In spaces
Of reserved-ahead
Of time
Maximum potential
Flows through the pages
While it's intellectuals
Dispel wisdom of sages
Irrevalent trepidation
Counters most all revelation
Statements of veracity
Deemed no longer speculation
Dedicated To: The many victim's
In this world today and their families
Who in the end should have and
Will have justice.
Justice is superior to Mercy,
Yema, the embodiment of Justice-
God, the manifestation of Mercy.
Yet, Yema being the servant of God,
Justice is at the hand of Mercy!
12.01.99, Palakkad
[Yema = the god of death in the Hindus mythology]
In the recesses
of a creased mind
lies the truth
of what is right
In the land
of truth and justice
lies broken dreams
where justice was not seen
Let us see
Slaves to the powers
of the external mind
If your innocent or guilty
they do not mind
Watching and waiting
to make their strike
They'll take you down
and watch you drown
As long as they get somebody
to make themselves proud
They won't care
that your mind is not all there
All over the world
The powers of the external mind
is watching you
How can be  a difference between peace and justice
I never knew there could be a difference
Among these  two essential points for survival our world's
I always thought they complete each other
Humanity's world has got destroyed
How can the world bear all these woes
But if ill be asked to choose among those
Justice or the peace
I would choose the peace
Because without peace lives stop surviving
As well as the world
But what's the meaning of justice
It's the difference among our thoughts
Thoughts if neglected lives will be survived
But when the peace deserts our lives
No one will stay alive
So for what is your justice when it will take lives
It was
Just another day
Or so I thought
But madness
Had got me
I didn't even know
I was walking
Through the city
Minding my own
When I saw a man
Hurt someone
I should have known
I should have turned away
I should have gone another way
But my mind
Wouldn't let me
It was too far away
I'm chasing
I'm chasing
I'm gaining
But I'm losing
I'm fighting
But I'm not moving
I'm chasing
My dreams away
I catch him
I beat him
I take the blame for him
Then I pay
For what he done
Twenty years of pain
Justice never done
I'm walking
I'm walking
I can hear
The hospital talking
Doctor death
Wants to get
In my head
Laid me on the bed
Put electrodes
To my head
Blasted me
Till I'm nearly dead
They knew I'd confessed
With voices
In my head
Now they was
Trying to make
Me dead
Did they think
I wouldn't survive
Did they think
I'd go and hide
As the years
Rolled by
My demons
Said goodbye
Now it's time
To have justice
On my side
Doctor death
You can't hide
It's justice time
For justice, truth and peace to flow
Love too has fruit to bear
United must become all four
And practiced everywhere
True justice cannot stand alone
It needs of truth and peace
When love becomes the corner stone
Sweet fruit will never cease
Let's drink The Truth as sweet old wine
Let love live not in vane
Mix justice now with peace divine
Allow harmony reign
For justice without love is nought
Peace without truth’s a lie
Until the world this fact is taught
Condemned she’s bound to die
To facts of life she must be wise
Her children need to see
Until they look with open eyes
Salvation cannot be
When truth and peace they understand
When love becomes her root
When justice lifts her outstretched hand
She’ll bear the sweetest fruit
Let candour be a constant guide
Integrity wear a crown
Impartiality reign inside
With love as wedding gown
Allow love’s wisdom steadfast rule
Truth’s knowledge change one’s heart
Let peace become our daily tool
Let justice play her part
It is a fact
There are no shortages
No lack of anything
For the advantaged.
But for the poor
They wanting...
Bellies empty.
Oh Almighty God...!
Where is the justice?
_____
Poem In Pashto By:  Afzal Shauq
Translated in English By:  Alley Boling
Book:  'TWIST OF FATES'  Poem No.261/Page.334
Web Link: http: //khyberwatch.com/nandara/index.php?
option=com_content&task=view&id=378&Itemid=1
P DF files: http: //khyber.org/books/ashauq/index.shtml
Poet's weblog: www.tolafghan.com/members/afzalshauq
© Afzal Shauq
Jack Doe met Dick Roe, whose wife he loved,
And said: 'I will get the best of him.'
So pulling a knife from his boot, he shoved
It up to the hilt in the breast of him.
Then he moved that weapon forth and back,
Enlarging the hole he had made with it,
Till the smoking liver fell out, and Jack
Merrily, merrily played with it.
Then he reached within and he seized the slack
Of the lesser bowel, and, traveling
Hither and thither, looked idly back
On that small intestine, raveling.
The wretched Richard, with many a grin
Laid on with exceeding suavity,
Curled up and died, and they ran John in
And charged him with sins of gravity.
The case was tried and a verdict found:
The jury, with great humanity,
Acquitted the prisoner on the ground
Of extemporary insanity.
Justice, justice, justice!
Where art thou? ye Stewarth?
Justice is the very warmth of an inn,
When interred from the bitter slippery, frosty storm.
Justice is the norm.
It's illusive to the door, like a very fastened door,
Cannot be entrusted to flurry mind.
Justice must be mandated.
With justice the waves are calm,
There is never a harm.
No one needs justice until
They themselves are imprisoned.
Justice is not heresy,
It's the healing of the soul.
come and see where it is
you find dancing the sea.
Never find the sky loughing
somewhere in the city.
you find me without
size and shape
the rough road ahead.
come and see
I am missing
in the gitamandir.
And i am somewhere
on the bank of the ganga
where judge is there
to pass order
after the game over.
Justice is revenge for those who have suffered loses,
And for others it’s a punishment
It involves the truth, not the lies
If you want Justice you must be able to stand up for the truth.
It is not just going to come and knock on your door
You must be able to listen to the truth
What is justice really?
Is it truth, or revenge?
What is truth?
What is revenge?
Huts of childhood are in autumn,
Decayed hamlet; dark shapes,
Singing mothers in the evening wind;
At windows Angelus and hands fold.
Still birth; on green ground
Mystery and stillness of blue flowers.
Insanity opens the purple mouth:
Dies irae - grave and stillness.
Groping along green thorns;
In the sleep: blood-vomit, hunger and laughter;
Fire in the village, awakening in the green;
Fear and swaying on gurgling boat.
Or in wooden staircase again
The white shadow of the strange woman leans.-
Poor sinner longing away in the blueness
Left his putrefaction behind for lilies and rats.
An eighteen-legged female spider
had fallen in a vat of cider.
She struggled with her puny legs
and lost, due to the fear, her eggs.
The spiderwife began to panic
and feared she would, like the Titanic,
end at the bottom, thus deep down,
(non-swimming spiders often drown) .
She pledged to be a brave example,
to struggle while she still had ample
tenacity and strong reserves.
She would ignore her fraying nerves.
The spider's movements now were slowing
as all her glycogen was going.
But, just before the final minute
she yelled: 'The cider, aren't I in it? '
And, within seconds she had found
that she now stood on solid ground.
That moment, when the farmer's mother
checked on the cider and said  'BROTHER! '
It had become a solid mess,
the why was anybody's guess.
The eggs had dropped into the cider,
been agitated by the spider,
eventually it had become
eggnog without a hint of rum.
Relieved, the spiderwoman rested
outside the vat, when (hairy-chested) ,
a frog hopped over, just to see.
He asked 'To Be Or Not To Be? '
Of course he ate the little spider,
then stuck his tongue into the cider
and drank through lingual osmosis.
He died of terminal cirrhosis.
We can never create a single life,
So we shouldn't have right to take it,
But what is going on all around a society,
Some psychotic man have been serial killer,
Some are killing people for so called revenge,
Some are killing as a victim of a situation,
Intentionally and unintentionally we are killing,
Now any one can say that for this we have laws,
But what is our law doing in the sake of justice?
Hanging a person, or electrocuting him on a chair,
In the name of painless death injecting poisons,
But are not these the way of killing a person?
Are not these the excuses to hide our failures?
This is us, Who give birth these sick murderers,
This is us, who let a man to be a killer,
Whatever that is, so called legal or illegal,
Are not these both killing processes sin?
Are not these bot about taking a life?
Can we say this justice a justice,
Which allows to take a life empowering a badge?
Think man...Humanity is crying in the door of justice...
That Justice is a blind goddess
Is a thing to which we black are wise:
Her bandage hides two festering sores
That once perhaps were eyes.
For those who reap us of thousands of grand’s
Lavish their wealth on treasures of the land
Justice often does us no right on this stand
For it gives the culprits only a helping hand
Justice is sometimes wrong
Justice is meant to be honour
Justice is sometimes strong
Justice is meant to be society’s formidable cure
With words I can create drama
With written words I cannot stammer
But Justice will do us no right in this drama
For I am called black but I got a white mama
In vain I see no reasonable sense
In this precluded abstract nonsense
And as Justice wears again its white robes
I sincerely hope that it will always accurately probe
Copyright 2008 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
Check out my latest 'Justice & If I were a girl'
… Slow Justice
Is Better Than No Justice
… I Just Want Justice and Peace
To Feel Justice
It Must Be Real Justice
Not Cut-Deals Or Just A Piece
Full Justice
Not Pull The Wool Justice
She’s Already Been Blindfolded Enough
We Accuse Justice
But To Lose Justice
Is To Unlock Chaos’ Cuffs
Justice …
Is Lustrous
In Pearls Of Conviction Displayed
Justice …
The Huntress
Were Wild-Wily-Wrongs Are Caged
A Cry For Justice
Is Why Justice’s
Scales-Weights Shouldn’t Be In Doubt
Legal Justice
Be Equal Justice
With Rules To Balance It Out
Honest Justice
Promise Justice
Is Right For The Poor and Oppressed
But Even Rich Justice
And Even Quick Justice
Should Be A Standard, Silvered Process
Raw Justice
Shouldn’t Be Flawed Justice
But Free To All Everywhere
The Power Of Justice
Is That The Hour Of Justice
Doesn’t Run Out Of Time Anywhere
Men Must Court Justice
And Support Justice
To Qualify For Her ‘Your’ Honor
And Seek Justice
And Speak Justice
And Be A Worthy Defender Word-Warrior
Some Have Burned Justice
Some Have Spurned Justice
In The Lies That They Have Sworn
Some Have Raped Justice
Then Gaped At Justice
Laid Bare Like Loss Innocence In Porn
Oh Sweet Justice
Don’t Beat Justice
We Are In Races But We Shouldn’t Fight
Some System Of Justice
Has Idealism Of Justice
But The Whole World Needs To Get It Right …
Then True Justice
And Overdue Justice
Will Be The Law Of Every Land & Life
Without Justice
You Can Count Justice’s
Tears Rolling Down In Strife
The Hope Of Justice
And Scope Of Justice
Is That Justice Answers To GOD
The Mercy Of Justice
And Courtesy Of Justice
Will Be The Final Plea Bargain LORD …
____________________
The Sound Of Justice
Is Profound To Us …
… In Juries, They’ve Sung Her Song Or Tried
O’ I Miss Justice …
And I Wish Justice
Would Just Come Back Here and Say “High”
Written & ©:  7/19/10
by:    The  MoonBee
Where’s Justice … Where Did She Go?
There Are Victims Here Who Want To Know
….. MoonBee
Justice begotten in exchange is no justice,
For, exchange is trade,
A distressing gain through loss;
Justice is inherent right,
Though wrapped in black packs
In dark hall of race for survival
Like gold strains bound in mud
Till exploited;
She is cool like ice
And still like rock;
No easy road to charm her soul
While hardship makes her no more justice.
She, in inaccessible moon,
She, in inaccessible moon,
She, in inaccessible moon,
A charming dream of undying hopes.
She appears by disappearance
And cracks confidence;
You feel her flight outward
While strange shadows dull your Self;
You cannot catch her back,
You cannot catch her back,
For, in outward flight, she sinks to darkness
Where eyes blind
And distance rises;
Your hands, raised for justice,
Grope in hopeless void till strain
And give up unending fight forever
As dreams never win realities of deceits;
You see her in shades
In gloom's dark sea;
She surfaces from night's unending darkness
Like hopeless inaccessible mirage
In your eyes
While the world sees there plain darkness;
She is unseen to all
She is unseen to all, but,
You, who lost her out;
Men seek justice
In passion's thousand hues,
As she is invisible otherwise;
Aye, justice hides from justice
And breeds injustice.
Why justice is shackled to greed and bribe?
Why justice is fished out from popular mood?
Lost in thick jungle of lightless night,
Like rat, caught in the sack of death,
Like deer, caught in lion's lair,
She never reaches Self by herself.
Justice is the just haunt of nature's all games
What man for his crave molests and tames.
Justice must be just for all to see
In glow of crystal brightness
And impose herself in natural ease
Like flood seizes low-lying lands
And fill all pits of man's callousness;
It is justice of course,
It is justice in natural haunt,
That none gain by trade
Nor lose ever.
For, justice that limps in darkness is justice dead,
A corps you can never infuse life with.
Alas, justice lives feeble life
And yields to injustice in comfort;
It haunts as ghost after death
As if seeking rebirth
To live again weightless life
With no passion for just path,
Nor for anything just and fair.
Justice with no heart for truth,
Justice with no dash for right cause
Is justice dead indeed.
October, 1918
Across a world where all men grieve
And grieving strive the more,
The great days range like tides and leave
Our dead on every shore.
Heavy the load we undergo,
And our own hands prepare,
If we have parley with the foe,
The load our sons must bear.
When justice stands still
only the fool hearted,
will contemplate pursuing even the most just of causes,
when justice stands still,
the brave only will seek retribution
for sins committed against them and their kinsman,
can any gleamse of sovereignty  exist
where justice takes a tea break,
and when justice decides to stand still
will any sanity prevail,
where justice once stood still,
can any unity ever be restored
once upon a time the jews were slandered and abused
but they had the courage to stand up and refuse,
when justice stands still,
the supposed saviours become the enslavers,
who then will stand up to refuse for the people
when justice stands still,
the law makers become peace detractors,
creating laws meant not to ensure harmony,
but to bring woo to the masses,
when justice stands still,
they will seek to devour,
those they once vowed to protect,
justice stands still,
the eleventh plague,
not  just a  biblical fantasy,
but a present reality
An innocent man
lies his head down to rest
not wanting to wake
to the morning sun
Instead wanting to wake
in a parallel universe
where truth and justice
is number one
In the real world
his days seem like years
they eat away at his
mind body and soul
If a witness would lie
he knows he might die
before truth and justice
Would see the light
but he's got to keep up the fight
All he wants
is justice with no lie
so come forward
and let truth and justice
shine it's light
Loyaulte Me Lie
Echoes through history
A sacred oath, a blessing
A cry for truth and justice
Of equality and freedom
That lies at the heart of
Kingship and of princes and men.
Let justice prevail in all its form
Let the truth be known
That Loyalty Binds Me.
A shimmering light
in the distance of my life
keeps calling me home
I can hear the humming
of the electric current
calling my name
Telling me to make sure
Justice is done
I assumed him wrong
He was not to be taken for real song
It was my greatest error
He was unlucky for ever
I had starved for him to be one
But he cared for nothing or none
He proved black sheep in real sense
It made me worrisome and tense
I was rushing in daytime
To see him anywhere anytime
I never bothered about hot sun
I was ready to go to any length or run
He has taken every inch of me
I have been made scapegoat to flee
With no place to go for safety
He has caused me lot of worries
I am no small chicken
I shall fight it out even
I know how to face each angle!
I can never be pushed to fail
I know I have been wronged
Yet it is fully managed
I shall survive and show
That life still can have easy water flow
He took me simply for sex object
Even though I knew it was tricky act
I had idea of withering storm
But let it go on reality term
I raise my head with honor
Even if he proved deserter
I want each woman folk to live with justice
So no one can break word or promise
I am the love criminal justice Detective.
Have you been single for almost more than a year?
Thats a punishable crime.
You will be suspended to my eyes,
locked into my heart,
given a life sentence of a life time to my life.
You will be released by marriage from your home to our home.
You will have a mark of being convicted to the love criminal justice by a ring on ur finger
you shall get a parol award for most well behaved criminal by a having a child to love
you are now arrested to my heart.
You! Will have the right to speak and the right to freedom..
The right to love and live and the responsibility to express your feelings.
This is another episode of life and if you are inlove with me then you are arrested to my heart. Respect the law! ...
It's a troubled World we live in the World of today
But love with peace and justice only decades away
In fifty years or less from now there won't be mistrust and hate
The war lords and the men of war will have passed their use by date.
Those who love peace and justice are beginning to unite
And for the men who worship war their loss of power in sight
Soon war jets will not fly the sky under the cloak of night
And those who promote harmony will be the men of might.
The yearn for peace is spreading getting stronger by the day
And those who are divisive will not have a part to play
In the World of the future the racist and the cruel
Will not have any power at all only the just will rule.
The children who are born today will surely live to see
A World of peace and harmony and of war and hatred free
For the yearn for peace is spreading and with each passing day it grow
And war will be unheard of in forty years or so.
A jury sat around a tree
to judge a man for treason.
The foreman said 'how can it be
this fellow had no reason.
A patriot who, for his land
stood deep in Flanders' trenches,
today is forced to take a stand
and face Justitia's benches.
Then tea was served and little snacks,
one of the jurors fainted,
she found it hard to just relax
when evidence was tainted.
They shot the fellow near the tree,
'twas sanctioned by the nation.
They had no proof that one could see,
did no investigation.
It often happens in this world
where imbeciles now rule,
and when their ugly lies are hurled
it's  you who   plays the fool.
They put you down, just like a dog
and laugh when you expire.
Then toast each other with their grog,
it's  JUSTICE  they admire.
The little word  INTEGRITY
has fallen out of favour.
The tea served underneath the tree
does have a modern flavour.
The fact is i have a poetry e-book, /
hence i find it hard to proceed with... /
it as i cannot succeed like a poet. /
Koena France Mokoena
KFM PRODUCTIONS.
In a lightly morn
A person was born
After lots of stories and the morbid things,
He decided to sing,
To sing a song of a dirty world,
A world full of lies and fake words
A world of lust and stupid joys
A world that consist of different girls and boys
A world of nags and nasty actions to some of us
A world that nothing inside it is true bust loss
A world that we live in
A world that lives with no mean
A world for rich guys with their colorful cars
A world of giant wars
A world full of words, full of verses, full of hope
Where young saint children have no hope
There is no world for those children that I saw
I hate those fake words and speeches about the laws
Look around please. Think a little. What do we miss? !
For sure lots of things. And one of them is justice!
Justice of those old times I think you know,
Justice that a man done, and what about now?
How can all the cruelties happen in a world?
How a human can breaks the rules in a world?
How can we make the wrong decisions about our dears in a world?
How can we forget the justice, how do we forget the justice in a world?
How you and I claims about the rights of people in a world?
A world that goes well. A world that will handle by some powerful human's words.
Unhappy goddess! Has then envious earth
Denied thine eyes the radiance of thy birth?
Have mortals, that still need thy voice to school
Their wrangling lives, their daily feuds to rule,
That thou might'st judge with stern and equal mind,
Swayed by no fear or favour, made thee blind?
Immortal, yet with bound and vacant eye,
How sad an emblem of humanity!
Thou bearest the poised scales, the uplifted sword,
Dealing to each his sentence and award.
Infinite acts in tedious array,
Their petty quarrels, at thy feet they lay.
Thou hearest: and dost thou require no more,
No subtler knowledge, no profounder lore?
Hast thou searched out the individual heart?
Or deem'st thou each its fellow's counterpart?
Ah, what wronged mind might not those eyes have read,
With light and with compassion visited,
Let the soiled page of obscure lots unroll,
Nor from deeds judged, but from the striving soul!
Teased by such strife, and yet, 'mid all its din,
Conscious and proud of heavenly rays within,
Know'st thou no hour when thy long labours seem
Fruitless as foolish, a preposterous dream!
When some imperious impulse bids thee scorn
The bonds of use, no longer to be borne,
And with indignant tears at tasks so vain,
Dash down thy scales, and snap thy sword in twain;
Leave man to end his wrongs from his own store
Of wisdom, and revisit earth no more?
Touched by hardened love, taken slowly together
with each stitch.
Tibetan heritage comes together inside a home
in inner America.
Peace and justice stroll hand in hand, down
paths of greatness.
One day soon to be in bloom.
i have my personal justice written across my pulse
constant thoughts and very clear needs
my personal justice is just that: personal
like a thief whose money you're carrying
that's me..
if only luck didn't have so much to do with it
or time, or life
who says i'm not better?
life has its own will and it does not care about your plans
or secrets or hopes you bury inside.. counting minutes, days, months
for your justice to have its turn
it does not have a turn
time couldn't care less
you can be your own prisonner, if you like
life won't even bother
still... when will you surrender?
Sometimes we seethe with rage
over some heinous crime committed.
Our voices are raised with thousands of others
for justice to prevail, and then watch in disbelief
as a nominal sentence is incurred.
Although the courts think,
they decide the fate of the individual
it is inside the walls of prison
that really seals their fate.
Sex offenders and child abusers
are never welcome there.
The prisoners welter out
their own brand of punishment for them.
14 November 2009
There is a law which guarantees
that as you sow so shall you reap,
there’s no point in not guilty pleas.
The record keeper never sleeps.
That which you give you will receive.
The correct balance must be kept
just simple justice I believe.
You have no choice you must accept
The punishment that you deserve.
Forget the lies you have been taught
repenting misdeeds will not serve.
Your protestations count for nought.
The scales must balance exactly.
The  credit and the debit side,
no one is punished unjustly.
The law is equally applied.
There’s only you gives evidence
before a jury of your peers,
with wisdom and experience
to understand your hopes and fears
They will advise you that’s what they do.
About the things you need to learn
but the decisions left to you.
To choose to rest or quick return.
To start again with a clean sheet.
Another chance for you to earn
the merits needed to complete
the lessons which you need to learn.
Each life we live a step towards
a destination still unknown
Where we receive our just rewards
because we are at last full grown.
16-Jan-08
She is passionate about
fairness and equality.
Justice is not just a store,
but rather a progressive and important social concept.
Rosa Parks and Mother Teresa
are role models who inspire her.
She likes how February is
Black History month
and March is
Women's History month,
but yet she still ponders
how women have only had
the right to vote
since 1920 in America.
Not even 100 years
have passed
and there has never been
a woman President.
She doubts some men
would ever vote
for a woman President
and that makes her sad.
She likes when women
do not hit the glass ceiling
and instead rise
to positions of leadership.
She thinks pay inequality
based on gender
is grossly unfair.
She ponders how can men still be
paid vastly more
for the exact same job as a woman
in a progressive society?
She is a social justice girl.
The cold dark nights living out on the streets,
People walking past, not caring enough.
Those convicts whose lives that came on the fleets.
Whose lives were full of suffering were tough.
No one cares, no one helps, no one can see,
To live life being homeless is not swell,
Not a choice, as sometimes we need to flee,
From our present lives, not die in a well.
No food, no shelter, no blankets at night,
To try to find a way to stay alive,
And even sometimes get into a fight,
Some may suffer, but there are some who thrive.
We are normal people, but none can tell,
That we are human and all should be well.
(c)  Selina Gurgacz 2009
TWO lawyers to their cause so well adhered,
A country justice quite confused appeared,
By them the facts were rendered so obscure
With which the truth remained he was not sure.
At length, completely tired, two straws he sought
Of diff'rent lengths, and to the parties brought.
These in his hand he held:--the plaintiff drew
(So fate decreed) the shortest of the two.
On this the other homeward took his way,
To boast how nicely he had gained the day.
THE bench complained: the magistrate replied
Don't blame I pray--'tis nothing new I've tried;
Courts often judge at hazard in the law,
Without deciding by the longest straw.
Part I
VAGRANT.
Take, take away thy barbarous hand,
And let me to thy Master speak;
Remit awhile the harsh command,
And hear me, or my heart will break.
MAGISTRATE.
Fond wretch! and what canst thou relate,
But deeds of sorrow, shame, and sin?
Thy crime is proved, thou know'st thy fate;
But come, thy tale!--begin, begin! -
VAGRANT.
My crime!--This sick'ning child to feed.
I seized the food, your witness saw;
I knew your laws forbade the deed,
But yielded to a stronger law.
Know'st thou, to Nature's great command
All human laws are frail and weak?
Nay! frown not--stay his eager hand,
And hear me, or my heart will break.
In this, th' adopted babe I hold
With anxious fondness to my breast,
My heart's sole comfort I behold,
More dear than life, when life was blest;
I saw her pining, fainting, cold,
I begg'd--but vain was my request.
I saw the tempting food, and seized -
My infant-sufferer found relief;
And in the pilfer'd treasure pleased,
Smiled on my guilt, and hush'd my grief.
But I have griefs of other kind,
Troubles and sorrows more severe;
Give me to ease my tortured mind,
Lend to my woes a patient ear;
And let me--if I may not find
A friend to help--find one to hear.
Yet nameless let me plead--my name
Would only wake the cry of scorn;
A child of sin, conceived in shame,
Brought forth in woe, to misery born.
My mother dead, my father lost,
I wander'd with a vagrant crew;
A common care, a common cost;
Their sorrows and their sins I knew;
With them, by want on error forced,
Like them, I base and guilty grew.
Few are my years, not so my crimes;
The age which these sad looks declare,
Is Sorrow's work, it is not Time's,
And I am old in shame and care.
Taught to believe the world a place
Where every stranger was a foe,
Train'd in the arts that mark our race,
To what new people could I go?
Could I a better life embrace,
Or live as virtue dictates? No! -
So through the land I wandering went,
And little found of grief or joy;
But lost my bosom's sweet content
When first I loved the Gipsy-Boy.
A sturdy youth he was and tall,
His looks would all his soul declare;
His piercing eyes were deep and small,
And strongly curl'd his raven-hair.
Yes, AARON had each manly charm,
All in the May of youthful pride,
He scarcely fear'd his father's arm,
And every other arm defied. -
Oft, when they grew in anger warm,
(Whom will not love and power divide?)
I rose, their wrathful souls to calm,
Not yet in sinful combat tried.
His father was our party's chief,
And dark and dreadful was his look;
His presence fill'd my heart with grief,
Although to me he kindly spoke.
With Aaron I delighted went,
His favour was my bliss and pride;
In growing hope our days we spent,
Love's growing charms in either spied;
It saw them all which Nature lent,
It lent them all which she denied.
Could I the father's kindness prize,
Or grateful looks on him bestow,
Whom I beheld in wrath arise,
When Aaron sunk beneath his blow?
He drove him down with wicked hand,
It was a dreadful sight to see;
Then vex'd him, till he left the land,
And told his cruel love to me;
The clan were all at his command,
Whatever his command might be.
The night was dark, the lanes were deep,
And one by one they took their way;
He bade me lay me down and sleep,
I only wept and wish'd for day.
Accursed be the love he bore,
Accursed was the force he used,
So let him of his God implore
For mercy, and be so refused!
You frown again,--to show my wrong
Can I in gentle language speak?
My woes are deep, my words are strong, -
And hear me, or my heart will break.
MAGISTRATE.
I hear thy words, I feel thy pain;
Forbear awhile to speak thy woes;
Receive our aid, and then again
The story of thy life disclose.
For, though seduced and led astray,
Thou'st travell'd far and wander'd long;
Thy God hath seen thee all the way,
And all the turns that led thee wrong.
Part II
MAGISTRATE.
Come, now again thy woes impart,
Tell all thy sorrows, all thy sin;
We cannot heal the throbbing heart
Till we discern the wounds within.
Compunction weeps our guilt away,
The sinner's safety is his pain;
Such pangs for our offences pay,
And these severer griefs are gain.
VAGRANT.
The son came back--he found us wed,
Then dreadful was the oath he swore;
His way through Blackburn Forest led, -
His father we beheld no more.
Of all our daring clan not one
Would on the doubtful subject dwell;
For all esteem'd the injured son,
And fear'd the tale which he could tell.
But I had mightier cause for fear,
For slow and mournful round my bed
I saw a dreadful form appear, -
It came when I and Aaron wed.
Yes! we were wed, I know my crime, -
We slept beneath the elmin tree;
But I was grieving all the time,
And Aaron frown'd my tears to see.
For he not yet had felt the pain
That rankles in a wounded breast;
He waked to sin, then slept again,
Forsook his God, yet took his rest.
But I was forced to feign delight,
And joy in mirth and music sought, -
And mem'ry now recalls the night,
With such surprise and horror fraught,
That reason felt a moment's flight,
And left a mind to madness wrought.
When waking, on my heaving breast
I felt a hand as cold as death:
A sudden fear my voice suppress'd,
A chilling terror stopp'd my breath.
I seem'd--no words can utter how!
For there my father-husband stood,
And thus he said: --'Will God allow,
The great Avenger just and Good,
A wife to break her marriage vow?
A son to shed his father's blood?'
I trembled at the dismal sounds,
But vainly strove a word to say;
So, pointing to his bleeding wounds,
The threat'ning spectre stalk'd away.
I brought a lovely daughter forth,
His father's child, in Aaron's bed;
He took her from me in his wrath,
'Where is my child?'--'Thy child is dead.'
'Twas false--we wander'd far and wide,
Through town and country, field and fen,
Till Aaron, fighting, fell and died,
And I became a wife again.
I then was young: --my husband sold
My fancied charms for wicked price;
He gave me oft for sinful gold,
The slave, but not the friend of vice: -
Behold me, Heaven! my pains behold,
And let them for my sins suffice.
The wretch who lent me thus for gain,
Despised me when my youth was fled;
Then came disease, and brought me pain: -
Come, Death, and bear me to the dead!
For though I grieve, my grief is vain,
And fruitless all the tears I shed.
True, I was not to virtue train'd,
Yet well I knew my deeds were ill;
By each offence my heart was pain'd
I wept, but I offended still;
My better thoughts my life disdain'd,
But yet the viler led my will.
My husband died, and now no more
My smile was sought, or ask'd my hand,
A widow'd vagrant, vile and poor,
Beneath a vagrant's vile command.
Ceaseless I roved the country round,
To win my bread by fraudful arts,
And long a poor subsistence found,
By spreading nets for simple hearts.
Though poor, and abject, and despised,
Their fortunes to the crowd I told;
I gave the young the love they prized,
And promised wealth to bless the old.
Schemes for the doubtful I devised,
And charms for the forsaken sold.
At length for arts like these confined
In prison with a lawless crew,
I soon perceived a kindred mind,
And there my long-lost daughter knew;
His father's child, whom Aaron gave
To wander with a distant clan,
The miseries of the world to brave,
And be the slave of vice and man.
She knew my name--we met in pain;
Our parting pangs can I express?
She sail'd a convict o'er the main,
And left an heir to her distress.
This is that heir to shame and pain,
For whom I only could descry
A world of trouble and disdain:
Yet, could I bear to see her die,
Or stretch her feeble hands in vain,
And, weeping, beg of me supply?
No! though the fate thy mother knew
Was shameful! shameful though thy race
Have wander'd all a lawless crew,
Outcasts despised in every place;
Yet as the dark and muddy tide,
When far from its polluted source,
Becomes more pure and purified,
Flows in a clear and happy course;
In thee, dear infant! so may end
Our shame, in thee our sorrows cease,
And thy pure course will then extend,
In floods of joy, o'er vales of peace.
Oh! by the GOD who loves to spare,
Deny me not the boon I crave;
Let this loved child your mercy share,
And let me find a peaceful grave:
Make her yet spotless soul your care,
And let my sins their portion have;
Her for a better fate prepare,
And punish whom 'twere sin to save!
MAGISTRATE.
Recall the word, renounce the thought,
Command thy heart and bend thy knee;
There is to all a pardon brought,
A ransom rich, assured and free;
'Tis full when found, 'tis found if sought,
Oh! seek it, till 'tis seal'd to thee.
VAGRANT.
But how my pardon shall I know?
MAGISTRATE.
By feeling dread that 'tis not sent,
By tears for sin that freely flow,
By grief, that all thy tears are spent,
By thoughts on that great debt we owe,
With all the mercy God has lent,
By suffering what thou canst not show,
Yet showing how thine heart is rent,
Till thou canst feel thy bosom glow,
And say, 'MY SAVIOUR, I REPENT!'
Where is the justice in this world?
where is the justice? I feel bored
I need the justice only, please.
Answer me to breathe with ease.
If the justice appears tell me!
please, I want to breathe.
without the justice I cant live
Yeah! we all cant live.
If the injustice disappeared
You will find the justice appear.
Answer me, answer now.
So, we can live peacefully right now.
Where is the justice in this world?
`
Provide us just scales
with which to measure
determine the truth
provide no displeasure
be objective and distant
make sure you're blindfolded
mete out the verdict
swift and without fail.
But for the value of life
remember your own
Each breath you take
opportunities blown
Justice is never served
for the dead remain dead
their chances forfeited
memories defaulted
punitive arrangements
may placate the bereaved
but the dead remain deceased.
`
Avoidance of hazard
And wisdom of mind
Can only delay implication
Of everything being just.
For years together there were no rains
We adulated you, my God, impatiently then.
Requesting you to allow rains to rain,
for diminishing your subjects inner pain.
Hungry we were and in search of bread,
In search of water, tears we had to shed.
Nothing we could do other than devotion,
Expiating always for all the committed sins.
No one could stop the harsh man slaughter
No one could bring on dry lips a laughter.
Then came a day, the day of your glory,
Every side fainted with cats and dogs raining.
What is this unjust justice, I could'nt guess,
Oh God, do you want us only difficulties to face.
If the sudden tidings came
That on some far, foreign coast,
Buried ages long from fame,
Had been found a remnant lost
Of that hoary race who dwelt
By the golden Nile divine,
Spake the Pharaoh's tongue and knelt
At the moon-crowned Isis' shrine-
How at reverend Egypt's feet,
Pilgrims from all lands would meet!
If the sudden news were known,
That anigh the desert-place
Where once blossomed Babylon,
Scions of a mighty race
Still survived, of giant build,
Huntsmen, warriors, priest and sage,
Whose ancestral fame had filled,
Trumpet-tongued, the earlier age,
How at old Assyria's feet
Pilgrims from all lands would meet!
Yet when Egypt's self was young,
And Assyria's bloom unworn,
Ere the mythic Homer sung,
Ere the gods of Greece were born,
Lived the nation of one God,
Priests of freedom, sons of Shem,
Never quelled by yoke or rod,
Founders of Jerusalem-
Is there one abides to-day,
Seeker of dead cities, say!
Answer, now as then, THEY ARE;
Scattered broadcast o'er the lands,
Knit in spirit nigh and far,
With indissoluble bands.
Half the world adores their God,
They the living law proclaim,
And their guerdon is-the rod,
Stripes and scourgings, death and shame.
Still on Israel's head forlorn,
Every nation heaps its scorn.
i'm not trying to make people angry
this morning... an intelligent person
know anger is but a symptom of the
disease...
i do state this firmly:
you are a human being.
i dont care about your skin color,
your religious views, whether
you're male or female...
whether you're gay or straight...
you deserve the right to be who
you are, to your own dignity,
to work, to be fed and sheltered,
to raise your families,
to believe in your dreams.
and all of the people around
this old world deserve the same...
you deserve to be free...
inequality, greed, and apathy
wont cut it.
the truth is, we're all human!
and this is the truth that sets us free!
O shy maiden, cooking a time-torn dish,
You sail on high seas, always far from beach,
Ensconced in thine lofty principled niche,
When arrive, is not it too late to reach?
I feel thine conscience is still alive,
Ye show lady justice blind. But she's lame.
Stays and delays her single most ill-fame,
What good, in two decades should she arrive?
If there be wrong that whole world has well seen,
The court it seems is not satisfied still,
No crime leaves confession, nor yet signed will,
Time, justice contemplates and looks within.
A victim of justice is good as killed,
But there's one more— whole legal edifice,
And the system, with bureaucracy filled,
And true victim is the very justice.
Ye bank too much on the letter of law,
But letter's fine if it carries spirit,
Blindfolded, justice can still be in awe,
Too much process makes justice no more fit.
Thine chairs sticky seem of privileges,
Ready to threaten with contempt of court,
Lofty chairs too serve public on wages,
No one need sit in an isolate fort.
And here the courts woke up by public noise;
I wish it'd kept its own alarm warnings,
But was reposed on procedural poise,
When stirred it walked when should fly on all wings.
Let courts rid old baggage, all the vain load,
It should still run, let jagged get the rough road.
_____________________________________________ _________
The killers of Jessica Lall virtually walked away free. Let's not blame just the powerful and rich perpetrators of the crime. The real culprit here seems to be our legal and judicial system, and the law enforcers. She scarce is the only victim. The true Victim is justice itself. Victim, is our collective conscience as well, and our collective heart hardening fast.
________________________________________ ______________
Happenings | 02.02.06 |
Wandering Justice
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
When society systems fail
And someone goes to jail
Without any chance of bail
Or ever setting out again on sea to sail
For something they did not do; it is a sad tale
When there is war instead of peace
And dignified people are looking for ass to kiss
Where is justice?
Countries are suffering in health and poverty
Whilst others are enjoying wealth and property
Where is justice?
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
When someone you love
Is taken away to the skies above
Where is the justice?
When you read endlessly to take exams
Another passes it with some fraudulent scam
Where is the justice?
When all your life you work so hard
Doesn’t it get you viciously mad?
When the jackpot hits another who is bad
Where is the justice?
When life takes away your child
Because you ignored health symptoms as mild
Where is the justice?
At work when your original innovations
Reward your boss with a standing ovation
Followed by a double or triple promotion
And all you get from the boss is a caution
Where is the justice?
When living a healthy life is nothing but a trick
As destiny picks on you for the sake of a kick
With illnesses for the unhealthy and the weak
All the same you are the one who ends up sick
Where is the justice?
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
Fair for all is what I call justice
Moments of rewarding bliss
When a man plants his seeds
Creating numerous mouths to feed
And he provides them with all their needs
I call it Justice!
When you work hard
Indulging in good not bad
And life rewards make you so glad
I call it Justice!
Yet justice often wanders away
Before you have your chance of say
When it wanders, the price is often high to pay
O! Dear, have I hit a miss?
With wandering justice
As it leaves behind a trail of flaws
That is not within the confinement of fair law!
when justice fails because the constable has blundered
do not be surprised, do not even be discouraged,
proceed in procurring justice still with the way how you are trained
to do so,
get the fingerprints of your thoughts and present the same
to those who doubt and wavered, show them the intricate lines
of your own determinations
this is how it must be done
there is still a map of this destination,
when justice fails because the judge and justices have also lost
their sense
what justice is and how it should be dispensed like a blindfolded lady
that you misunderstand with her scales on one hand and a sword
on the other,
do not be shaken, do not lose hope, heave a sigh and breathe
the remaining clean air,
there are still those who in silence still remain steadfast
holding on to truth
and keeping their hands clean and hearts pure and minds active
to the pursuit of this eternal approximation
of fairness
there are still those whose eyes still daze to the glitters not of gold
but of truth, beauty, and goodness,
i will count you in
please count me in too
and how about you?
i ask, please be counted
we shall stand on the good side of things
we shall look for the brightest star
the ideal from among the blunders in the darkness of our nights
let the hammer fall and let it fall everyday
let those in the dark side have their houses full
where's the freedom and justice?
trapped behind bars
watching lightning fast cars
where's the freedom and justice?
why keep hope
when happiness pops like soap
where's the freedom and justice?
cant breathe
cant leave
where's the freedom and justice?
hate misery
hate mystery
where's the freedom and justice?
you get raped
get interviewed on tape
where's the freedom and justice?
goes to court
but his bad luck is not the unlucky sort
where's the freedom and justice?
he get's away
i like an idea that's revenge is a way!
where's the freedom and justice?
They say they saw
Then they go and lie
Put people in prison
for a crime
Why would they lie
Is it in their mind
How can they live
knowing this
Has their soul
got a conscience
Will it eat them away
until one day they will have to say
what they saw that day
Maybe they are traumatized
by dismay
But it doesn't mean
they have to put innocent people away
The lies must stop
Why should the guilty get away
While innocent people
rot away
1     Ae fond kiss, and then we sever;
2     Ae fareweel, and then forever!
3     Deep in heart-wrung tears I'll pledge thee,
4     Warring sighs and groans I'll wage thee.
5     Who shall say that Fortune grieves him,
6     While the star of hope she leaves him?
7     Me, nae cheerfu' twinkle lights me;
8     Dark despair around benights me.
9     I'll ne'er blame my partial fancy,
10   Naething could resist my Nancy;
11   But to see her was to love her;
12   Love but her, and love forever.
13   Had we never lov'd sae kindly,
14   Had we never lov'd sae blindly,
15   Never met--or never parted--
16   We had ne'er been broken-hearted.
17   Fare thee weel, thou first and fairest!
18   Fare thee weel, thou best and dearest!
19   Thine be ilka joy and treasure,
20   Peace. enjoyment, love, and pleasure!
21   Ae fond kiss, and then we sever;
22   Ae fareweel, alas, forever!
23   Deep in heart-wrung tears I'll pledge thee,
24   Warring sighs and groans I'll wage thee!
A fond kiss, and then we sever;
A farewell, and then forever!
Deep in heart-wrung tears I'll pledge thee,
Warring sighs and groans I'll wage thee.
Who shall say that Fortune grieves him,
While the star of hope she leaves him?
Me, nae cheerfu' twinkle lights me;
Dark despair around benights me.
I'll ne'er blame my partial fancy,
Nothing could resist my Nancy;
But to see her was to love her;
Love but her, and love forever.
Had we never lov'd say kindly,
Had we never lov'd say blindly,
Never met--or never parted--
We had ne'er been broken-hearted.
Fare thee well, thou first and fairest!
Fare thee well, thou best and dearest!
Thine be like a joy and treasure,
Peace. enjoyment, love, and pleasure!
A fond kiss, and then we sever;
A farewell, alas, forever!
Deep in heart-wrung tears I'll pledge thee,
Warring sighs and groans I'll wage thee!
Deserted by love
In the summertime,
I walk by the river
And speak to seagulls
And feed them my sandwich.
I used to worship the dawn,
But now, I awake alone
In a dreamless home.
I fantasize a departure
To an exotic place
Where I’ll have a new
And lovelier face.
A girl will kiss me
Who doesn’t intend
To make me cry.
Clip clop, clip clop...
Drizzle kisses the parched earth.
By the garlands of glee,
A dreamy eye welcomes thee.
Somnolent crops rejuvenate,
And rejoice in thy mellifluous tune.
Sweep afar then,
Doleful moments...
Which has smeared...
Every sweating forehead,
With paste of famine,
Drought and poverty…
And left everything,
A complete dust bowl…
Clip clop, clip clop...
Drizzle kisses the parched earth.
If I were to stand in a pool of your tears
And found that my acts placed them there
Then love, my love… I would sink to hell.
Where there is life I would not dwell.
My heaven, sweet heaven, is in your smile,
And heaven’s beauty I wish not defile;
So, if my lips were to kiss one not your own,
I pray my head would fall off its bone
That it does not reach my heart of stone,
Which will rot as this virus spreads.
Instead of betraying your love, I rather be dead.
And if my hands were to hold her waist as done to yours,
My limps, every finger, I pray would be strewn
Upon the ground, for it is better if I were a thought,
Than to betray the one who gave me her heart.
Your heart I value much more than rain
On a desert journey of many years.
Thirst be thirst… to mine for you, nothing compares.
I long for you as a desert does for dew.
Knowing that which I receive is not from me,
I value your love; each day it gives jubilee.
Your kiss is more than a kiss, it is a sign,
And it says for eternity you will be mine.
And as your shadow does, I belong to you,
I love you.
How naïve these mountains are
They are trying to kiss the sky
And feel that the clouds are a hindrance
Every time they make them fall on earth
Something grows and wishes are born
Now these mountains plea
O Sky bow down little and reach me
I want to kiss you like ~
The moonbeams kiss the sea
The bees kiss the flowers
And the waves kiss the shore.
One must not take love wrongly
A kiss may mean anything
Emotion gets physical in different ways
If planted on the head
Think of me always
Is a likely import for a kiss
Planted on the cheeks it calls
For fraternity even in strain
On the back of the hand
What other meaning than adoration
For the one beloved
Or on the feet unreserved worship indeed
It is only when a man
Kisses his wife full on the lips
That romance is exclusively expressed
They lock in passionate embrace
Tumbling to the floor
In throes of devouring passion
Making bashful sounds they will disdain
In the somberness of morning
It is not so I feel for my best friend
With him every touch
Is only a call to truer fraternity
That one heart may sincerely love the other
As unto itself.
I run through the rainbow
Drenching my mouth
In the pastels - tints
Of its passing,
Absorbing every touch of its colour
This warmth I love,
It pulsates in blood,
And I penetrate
Across its variety,
Pages of you
To become only
The small particle
Drinking from your mouth
My own soul
Sweetness is on your lips
like honey flavoured early morning dew.
And your eyes have a depth of blue
that even deepest oceans cannot match
with a twinkling like the stars that flash
across the space between
in which our sight it seems is seen.
And your hair as in a gentle breeze
It takes each fine strand and wisps it
on the air as if a string that music makes
deep within, a heartfelt ring.
And your smile a glowing
and in its glowing knowing
that this is true love that’s surely flowing.
Our eyes melt into one
and lips they coalesce
arms embrace entwined.
Love flows and joins
and what seemed a seeming two
are known as one, no longer me and you.
And all the Angels stop and stare
the stars in their travels pause
the sands of time suspend their race
the universe so vast in space
becomes a very tiny place.
Because love flows and joins
this is Love’s gift to all
to know you are so vast, not small
joined in abundant bliss
that’s truly universal
and found in just one loving kiss.
Butter fly
Fly
To fly...
Crying
Flower's...!
A kiss, simple though it seems!
A kiss, it is the stuff of dreams!
A kiss, contains the beauty of the world!
A kiss, can break the heart of this girl!
A kiss, is like an angel from above!
A kiss, can show all of my love!
A kiss, when it's from him is heaven!
A kiss, is that how it all begins?
A kiss, nothing could be more true!
A kiss, is perfect coming from you!
One wave falling forward meets another wave falling
forward. Well-water,
hand-hauled, mineral, cool, could be
a kiss, or pastures
fiery green after rain, before
the grazers. The kiss -- like a shoal of fish whipped
one way, another way, like the fever dreams
of a million monkeys -- the kiss
carry me -- closer than your carotid artery -- to you.
' A Kiss'
a kiss
is every so sweet
a gentle echo of elected
elegant manly lips
that elevate and evoke
the woman to reach
endlessly into her soul
and give her conventional
proof of love~
and with every breathe
she cease to exist
longing to fall back
into favor upon
that ever so wanted
kiss ~
I don’t care
I don’t dare
You’re not mine
But this time
You shouldn’t paint your lips
I shouldn’t find you sleep
You don’t give me a clue
You don’t even move
I just want to stop thinking you
And I get close to your hair
That shiny orange gloss has erased my mind
To forget your millions hate
I can’t escape
I take as mine
So stop the game
You know the end
You still witch queen
That cannot win
I kissed Rose right back
like that, without sorrow,
and a pat on the back
showing on the right track
was my rapid attack
I received on the morrow: -
so why would she pack
and the taxi fare borrow?
3 August 1991
Coppers Killed Me
Coppers killed me when we met,
jumping on the tube I sat in;
Magistrate, who loves to get
treats into your list, put that in!
Say I fought the terror fad,
say that “conscience clear” describes me,
say you’re growing old, don’t add, -
Coppers missed me!
Coppers killed me when we met,
hitting on the seat I sat in;
Acting circumstantial bet
eight hits, three misses, put that in!
Say I sought no terror fad,
say that “from bombs free” describes me,
say I’m growing cold, don’t add, -
Coppers killed me!
../..
Error wracks me today,
terror tracks you tomorrow,
let it be as it may,
pain from plain clothes turned grey.
Should tomorrow replay
such a savour of sorrow: -
what for you, safe today, -
is in store for tomorrow?
I could never fire back
like that, without sorrow,
and eight bullets through back
showed after attack
on the Stockwell tube track.
The report on the morrow: -
was on the wrong tack
did from fantasy borrow!
Terror slew me today,
error you risk tomorrow!
Violence came into play
which my life did waylay -
do you share the dismay
at what might come tomorrow?
There’ll be devil to pay
what excuse will YOU borrow?
August 15 2005
This is your mother’s kiss, my child!
Don’t you worry: things will be fine;
Just eat and sleep and play awhile.
You’ve had your birth on lovely earth;
You’ll take your time to grow up tall;
Soon you’ll become a long-necked beast!
Wait till your legs get strength to stand;
Wait till your bones can make you walk;
Wait till your mouth reaches tree-leaves!
And when you’re tall as your mother,
And children look at you in awe,
You will feel truly, very great!
This is your mother’s kiss of love;
This is your mother’s kiss of pride;
For when you match her neck and stride,
You must bend low too, from above!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 22-9-2005
When an angel sends
a kiss your way
the sweetness of its
love will stay.
As it blows into the
wind and you feel a
gentle touch.
Remember its your
angel saying.
I love you very much
What thing is that, nor felt nor seene
Till it bee given? a present for a Queene:
A fine conceite to give and take the like:
The giver yet is farther for to seeke;
The taker doth possesse nothing the more,
The giver hee hath nothing lesse in store:
And given once that nature hath it still,
You cannot keepe or leave it if you will:
The workmanshippe is counted very small,
The labour is esteemed naught at all:
But to conclude, this gift is such indeede,
That, if some see't 'twill make theyr hearts to bleede
‘Twas Spring in a desert town
Chill was in the evening air
Desert land bare and brown
I'd longed to see my lady fair
Dressed all in black
She tapped softly at my door
She still possessed a knack
To shake me to my core
Dinner for two at some quiet place
Where time once more stood still
Rekindled love set hearts to race
Life held no greater thrill
We shook hands, said good bye
I chanced “A Stolen Kiss”
Then gone the magic moment
of our romantic bliss...
ROTMS
When I daydream
What do I see
You, waiting for me
You ask me how I feel
With you it feels real
We sit and talk
and on the beach we walk
You compliment me
As we watch the deep blue sea
I look at your eyes
and you start to watch mines
I move close to your face
Too see how a kiss taste
The words i say today make the world fall away
The ring on your finger means your here to stay
The smile on your face lets me know you love me
When i wake up your the first thing i want to see
The look in your eyes make the world go away
The words we say makes my heart skip a beat
The bliss in this kiss is ever so sweet
With your hand in mine
Its not hard to find my very own piece of heaven
Were the angels fly happy and free
There i find you circled by these angles that sing
They sing a song
A melody of bliss in a kiss
Your kiss...
Transience is so immense,
We pass in a flurry of being,
A beautiful moment
In all its suddenness,
Arising in love, or enchanted
In the contraction of work.
And you I possess, however time may
Wear you away.
From I to you
Goes the command
Of infinite space to be assumed
In a single radiating emotion.
Every terrifying angel
Invokes the deadly birds of your soul
Disguising essence made of ecstasy,
Scooping up the finery of beauty
In streams from your upturned face
And gathering it back into themselves.
But I, moved by deep feeling, evaporate
In the mist of want,
And breathe myself out and away
Incapable of retaining your heart,
Splinters of sorrow
Perforating my basic reality.
You’ve entered my bloodstream,
Lover untenable,
The whole springtime
Perfumed with your jasmine flesh
Dissolving my senses in its taste.
Do angels really absorb the tension of love?
So you promise eternity,
From the embrace to the moment of kiss,
At each other's mouth and your lips on mine,
Osculating delight in astonished attachment
To touch one another this potently,
The gods involved in the excess.
Every time I kiss you
After a long separation
I feel
I am putting a hurried love letter
In a red mailbox.
Translated by B. Frangieh And C. Brown
Submitted by Noele Aabye
The warmth of his body
Flows through his touch,
Enfolding me in his universe.
I look deep
To catch a glimpse
Of his soul.
Feels he has already
Seen and taken
Possession of mine.
I drink in his breath,
A sweet nectar
Invading my body.
Melt in to him,
Eager surrender …….
Then disappointment.
They couldn’t
Match my ardour,
Didn’t understand it.
Wished I had
Feigned reluctance,
Been my seducers,
Felt special,
The conquerors.
He doesn’t know!
He was special.
Did seduce me,
Conquer me
Long ago ……
The first time
He looked
Into my eyes.
No forgiveness.
Aware of disapproval,
My passion rejected,
The moment is lost.
Already history.
He dances with his shadow like a youthful Fred Astaire,
such symbiotic harmony, they make a perfect pair.
No footfalls can be heard around about them as they move,
through empty evening streets, they waltz to beats of true love's groove.
They float upon a vapour trail which carries them aloft
on mem'ries of the sweetest touch of tender lips, so soft.
He laughs at shadow's antics as his mind's consumed with bliss
and the treasure she bestowed him with that magical first kiss.
A moment that he carries even to this very day,
Though many years have pass'd them by, they both still feel that way.
The passion that ignited in the fuel of youthful lust,
became so much more to them, through their love, respect and trust.
It was a late november night
I remember it well
We went to the movies
In Russelville
My parents drove and
in the back we cuddled
When we dropped you off
And I walked you to the door
We Kissed
It was a shy awkward kiss
but one that i'll remember
because in it I felt a promise
From God to me
That you and I will always be
together
since then theres been other kisses
some more passionate and loving
some more meaningful and romantic
but nothing can beat that first time
when our two lips met
it was one second of our time
but it'll last for eternity
Closed eyes can see,
lips upon lips.
Thoughts empty of resistence,
bodies filled with urgency.
Hunger turns into a beast,
without hesitation.
Closer than close,
lips brush lips.
Electricity surges,
lightning strikes the sky.
Tongues seductively dance,
harmonous with the sounds of lust.
Passion consumes,
lips tasting, feeling, teasing, yearning,
urgent to satisfy the starvation of time.
Tongues gently licking wet lips,
sucking.
Bodies are alive,
buring with heat.
All reason cast aside.
The sheer pleasure of a oneness,
feverish,  passionate, wanting more.
More pleasure,
more hot steamy,
wet tongues flickering.
Slowly parting gazing eye to eye,
the purist truths exposed.
Nothing hidden in the instant
that we first kissed.
While staring at an innocent yellow wall,
I decide I want my first kiss back.
It was mine, and it was wasted
on a boy without a face.
I remember his gentle scheming
and how I’d believed in fairytales.
My precocious giggles, aimless chatter,
and wide-eyed, summer-night smiles
brought him over the fence with a
jump and a smirk, and then,
his lips were flat on mine.
When he was done and my lips
were smacked with a wet cool,
I opened my eyes to see that
the sky was still blackish-blue.
The birds slept soundly and
the air was possessed
with the slither-'ssh' of cars
and the muffled murmur of the
neighbourhood squawk-boxes.
Time had ambled along,
like a gypsy by the roadside,
and I was still standing stable.
My pink-lipped assailant laughed
lightly to my side, thinking he’d
bested me, perhaps even charmed me.
Yet, with that kiss, he’d undone it all,
and I could see him clearly, even with
a moon that hid nervously behind him.
His voodoo had left me, and I was
free from pins and sins.
His lips had been rough, and
his tongue was a cold, clammy,
flopping fish, flapping clumsily
inside my maidenly mouth.
White feathers floated
to the ground around me
while all the flowers
lowered their heads and sighed.
Disenchanted and flattened,
I struggled to understand
the fuss of all this.
The assault of tangled lips
had violated my whims and wishes
leaving me disheartened,
in need of an escape.
So I left him by the fence
holding his chafed presumptions,
and I went inside,
up to my bedroom
with the pinks and the whites
and quietly closed the door.
You can’t wash it off.
Cupidity died, and
there was no consolation.
That boy’s face became a
muddy, foggy blur, and his
name, in my mind, a four-letter word.
These many years later,
I’ve learned to stop time,
and the kiss is now
a language I’ve mastered.
Lights dance and music plays
and nothing feels cold and
heavy. It warms me.
With all the joyful pecks
and soul-kissing since,
I’d like the first one back.
Away from the night
Everyone moves across the street
To be together, far from,
They are attracted to the light
And the music the flesh makes
As it dies
Traveling away from home
A cross to where I have no eyes, intersecting without hope
And I can not see where she is, gone,
The thing that never was between us
And the flowers in the gutter leading
To the sea- before the sun rises,
The thing that never was dissolves and goes away
In tiny fragments before the sun
And her kiss imagined, always felt,
But never,
All the pleasures of the system, petals budding
From the glowing stems,
Like lines on a road,
The conduits of rushing people,
Discarding me
And I am roadkill lying dead beside
Her bed (as they make some kind of attempt at love)
And forgotten on her neck, a broken gem,
Once priceless- now trash-
In the shadows beside where all
The lives move
Dances to the lights and forgets
Neighborhoods drunken and empty, abandoned museums,
And the life flipping over in mausoleums
Pages in a book read but
Not understood, a bed of transgressions
And falsehoods made-up to hide the stains
Like the nights coming on attracting the
Insects calling our humanity, a god of weekends,
And spirits past,
Forgetting to resist the temptation,
Where my wrist lays open and waiting
For a kiss.
Golden slumbers kiss your eyes,
Smiles awake you when you rise ;
Sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry,
And I will sing a lullaby,
Rock them, rock them, lullaby.
Care is heavy, therefore sleep you,
You are care, and care must keep you ;
Sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry,
And I will sing a lullaby,
Rock them, rock them, lullaby.
The cat in the wintry yard
Shivered in the freshly fallen snow,
I picked her up and she purred.
Life should be gently reaching out
To offer the vulnerable
Warm embraces.
When you cried on the telephone
A thousand miles away,
I’m sorry I couldn’t kiss you.
I want to kiss you at nightfall once again.
I want to kiss your lips tonight again
and taste the glory of your breath again.
I want to get drunk with the wine of your mouth
and to get lost in the unpublished ways of your soul.
I want to kiss your cheerful eyes at midnight once again
when the moon of the summer spills its light on the beach
and the soft rumor of the waves that die in the sand
whisper our names... smoothly.
I want to kiss your drowsy eyes under the light of first sunbeam
while the morning breeze wraps us slowly in a hug
in the solitude of our beach.
I want to fall asleep kissing you subtly another time
and wake up to half-day in the paradise of your embrace
and believe that I am still dreaming!
I will kiss you smoothly in the silence of the night.
I´ll take of your lips the honeys of your soul.
I´ll kiss you in the dimness, the shine of your eyes,
and I will be in the way to your heart..
I will cover your body with the heat of my kisses,
I´ll travel your accidents without fatigue.
I´ll climb your mountains without the desire of the first time
and I will descend to the botton of your soul.
I will kiss you without time and without rest.
I will kiss you with my soul and you´ll kiss me with yours
in an infinite kiss until the dawn comes.
I will kiss you in the port of your eyes again.
I will navigate in the sea of your pupils
and I will be forever the sailor of your heart.
Just a kiss
of which I cannot dismiss
A kiss of beauty
A kiss of love
A kiss of you and I which make we
In bed I toss and toss
As I wish
for your lips again
to unleash on mine
Copyright 2005 -Sylvia Chidi
It was just a Kiss
A harmless little Kiss
But it was so tender & so sweet
I completely succumbed
To your charms as they unfolded I wanted to Kiss and Kiss again
Oh the magic of it all
How was I to know when it began
That I would definitely fall in love forever
And we vowed we'd part absolutely positively NEVER
Oh the magic of just a Kiss
The woman full.
The sun it burns.
The earth when wet which scented smells.
Between the collums,
where you stood, I am.
Rising from the mud.
The squelch of sound is of.
The seaweed it is dark it grasps my feet.
Released divine all knowledge,
of some lighter secret?
Pulsing, pulsed it's forced, as it pours out.
Do you as other people touch that feeling?
What kind of sight, first night?
The love of wind is travelling through the air,
and the northern star,
the rainstorm, where the water it is sharp.
Two bodies which become.
Each depending on the others single sweetness.
Kissing you, I kiss the sky,
and by your kiss, I slip once more into the night.
Kiss kiss kiss me again*
Afterwards kiss kiss kiss my thoughts*
Then kiss kiss kiss my spirit*
Still kiss kiss kiss my shadow*
Don't forget to kiss kiss kiss my hair*
Repeated again kiss kiss kiss my face*
I'wanted to be kiss kiss kiss by you my brow*
Don't forget to kiss kiss kiss my cheek*
Afterwards kiss kiss kiss ears and my nose*
I'will like if being kiss kiss kiss by you my heart*
More kiss kiss kiss my lips*
Don't forget kiss kiss kiss with the love*
Repeated still kiss kiss kiss in the hope that we *
I'wanted to be kiss kiss kiss by you before i'slept*
I'hoped was kiss kiss kiss by you when i'opened the eyes and got up from my dream*
I'will like if being kiss kiss kiss by you my wish*
Don't forget kiss kiss kiss with your loyalty*
Kiss kiss kiss was our prayer together in the love*
G(-_-) (-_-) D
kiss kiss kiss
the thing, you never want to miss.
there are many ways to kiss.
here are the best six.
when you get a gloss kiss.
i bet you will lick your lips.
the kiss of style vampire,
with it, you will never get tire.
the smooth touch of angel kiss,
is the one, you never want to miss.
spidermans kiss is the best,
you will urge for more, without rest.
the wet kiss of single lip.
is so tempting and romantic.
on top of all is the love kiss,
it takes you to the world of bliss.
so kiss, kiss, and kiss.
these don't ever miss...
'Oh, hi...'
NO!
'Well, hello...! '
NO!
The mirror is horrified
at these...efforts...
to appear
eh...natural?
(when I am anything but
...on tenterhooks) .
Terrified, I pretend
once again...
can't seem to find
a single word
that seems ok!
The mirror laughs
at my pathetic attempts
& 4 changes of tie & jacket.
On the other side of town
you too
talk to your mirror.
'Fancy meeting you here...'
you lie to your reflection
(who is not taken in
by your studied non-cha-lence) .
'What a nice surprise...'
the mirror refuses to be
your accomplice
and doesn't approve
any of your choice of dresses.
The only one it appears to like
is the one with the busted zip
(the one you said you'd fix
sometime last week but
...didn't?)
and now there isn't
any time!
The mirror copies
your tears.
Later that night
on the street
(we both look
awkwardly natural)
as we apparently
meet
by accident...coincidence?
Yeah...right!
I start to say:
'Hi...oh...! '
as you try to articulate:
'Well, fancy you...'
We stop.
Stare.
Let go
of the words
let go
& just
kiss
kiss
kiss.
Kiss kiss kiss
Even if she does not posses
Angelina Jolie's luscious lips
Take her imagination to ecstasy
A place where flowers dance tango
A garden full of red and white roses
Your chapped strong lips her ticket
To the city where waterfalls sing
Kiss Kiss Kiss and make up
Make all her troubles go away
Light up your beautiful home gentleman.
Kiss Kiss Kiss
The only way to keep him
Close to your fire of passion
Put a lip gloss on your body
By the time you approach him
His eyes will be kissing and kissing
All over your smooth fine body
Be the lady of the smoking home
Kiss Kiss Kiss and make up
Take his imagination out of hardships
Worthy to be your partner kiss him.
Kiss Kiss Kiss
Respect your loving husband
Love your respectful wife.
***The Book of Passion (till death do us apart)
i see your mouth,
blowing her a kiss,
tough luck baby,
you can't have this...
cos she's one of them plastics,
with bitchy style,
who think their lives revolve around,
a fuckin nail file....! !
prissy little princess's,
what else is it you do?
besides go on constant prowls,
for more men to screw?
skanky little bitches,
the ones i want to hit! !
your missing out on life,
the most important bit...
see sleeping with the teacher,
will only get you so far! !
it won't get you that high rollers job,
to pay for your pink little car....! !
it won't get you friends,
that always got your back,
and it won't buy you respect,
that is a certain fact..! !
see you think everyone loves you,
but fact is they don't! !
and don't even try to make them fall in love with your plastic ass! !
cos they fuckin won't! !
kiss
my lips
my darling
my scarlet lips
kiss
The kiss was two hearts in the warmth.
The kiss was two hearts enjoyed each other.
The kiss was fate in the love.
The kiss was love fire.
The kiss completed the life.
You kissed because of the love.
I kissed because of the longing.
The kiss was two speaking hearts mutually.
Kiss....please I'want to kissed.
The kiss planed the love in the love.
The kiss described all the colours of the rainbow in the heart.
The kiss maintained loyalty.
The kiss escaped from the sadness.
The kiss was the friend in solitude.
The kiss was to introduce us in the belief.
The kiss mixed all the feelings.
The kiss decorated the world.
Did you want to feel the kiss to be perfect?
The perfect kiss must with the love.
The perfect kiss must with the sincerity.
The perfect kiss must with the wish.
The perfect kiss must despise the belief on the love.
The perfect kiss must with the prayer.
The perfect kiss God bless you.
Kiss kiss kiss I will
Again and again hold you
Touch you taste you kiss
© 2009 Forrest Hainline
Driving down the highway,
In her brand new Porsche,
Big sunglasses on,
Her silk scarf blowing in the wind.
A bag of money,
In the back seat,
The zip is down,
She leaves a cloud of money.
Her jewelled hands,
Clutch the leather wheel,
Her big white teeth,
Grin through her big red lips.
The brakes malfunction,
And the car flips,
A cloud of dust and dollars,
Her silk blood stained scarf billows in the wind.
© Michael Moorcroft October 18th 2009
a passionate kiss
under the silver moonbeams
stars are twinkling bright
I love you in the rain
Walking lonely along the boulevard
Gazing at all the passing cars;
The glimmer of neon signs
Flash like batting eyes from drugstores.
Neither of us were ever concerned with crime,
Our thoughts were bathed in the sublime
As we made our way down dirty streets,
Somehow a paradise for the lost;
Kiss me again like wet dogs
Straying without hope
Blindly into the night.
You know my addiction for extinction
And everyway I tried to die;
We dug Kierkegaard as well as the philosophy
Of non-judgment and non-injury;
And the poetry of romantic defeat
Was oozing from my pores like sweat
And I was glad you were next to me
To relish the journey of splintered thoughts
Blooming into a bouquet of dangerous dreams.
Kiss me tonight without saying anything
kiss me until the blood sprouts
kiss me with rage, it is my farewell
tomorrow I emigrate without knowing where!
Kiss me in the tip of desire
kiss me sweetly in the corner of martyrdom
kiss me with longing at the border of glory
tomorrow I leave without knowing where!
Kiss me without rest with your best kiss
kiss me with happiness, while my soul cries
kiss me with delirium it is my farewell
Kiss me until the dawn arrives
kiss me with limitless passion
kiss me.... just kiss me...
Without saying anything!
Kiss me and make it seem better,
Kiss me and quiet my heart,
I never once asked for a letter,
Stating you wanted to part.
Kiss me and declare you were wrong dear,
Kiss me and confirm it's okay,
Say all those things that I so want to hear,
And wipe all my tears away.
Kiss me and let's stay together,
Kiss me and pour out the wine,
Sit with me on my sofa of leather,
And say that everything will be fine.
Kiss me and tell me you love me,
Kiss me with passion to spare,
Don't think of leaving, that is my plea
And also my ardent prayer.
Kiss me, I need you so deeply,
Kiss me, what more can I say,
But with reality looming before me,
This dream has just melted away.
©   Ernestine Northover
Heart think
Lip's write
A poem of kiss...
Every one given too
Love for kiss...es...!
Child
Younger
Older
Men and women's
Given to gift
Kisses....
Is something
For love...!
Love is a kiss
You don't miss it
Given everyday
To every one...!
You want to
Kiss me
My always ready
Yes...,
Kiss me....!
Sounds very Simple to do,
To Kiss me Quick
But your Love must be True
And to catch me, is the Trick
When our lips do Meet
I know it will be such a Treat
For me as well as You
Nice and wet like the Morning Dew
Lips twisting and Turning
For more defiantly Yearning
And I'll probably want a Lot
Once I have Been Caught
Kissing is an art, one most master
Kissing slowly is better than faster
Kiss me slowly
Kiss me tenderly
Kiss me sweetly
Kiss me on the lips
Down to my finger tips
Delicately sample my nipples
Kiss it, tease it, rather simple
When done right, let me be precise
Kissing itself can be rather very nice
Kiss me slowly
Kiss me tenderly
Kiss me sweetly
Kiss my body inch by inch
Till it tickles and starts to flinch
Kiss me in the left and right ear
Whisper sweet words of passionate care
Kiss me by the neck
With little kisses called pecks
Kiss me hungrily in the mouth
Hear my groaning delicious shouts
Kiss me below and yonder
Till my juices begin to ponder
And turn on fire with desire
Kiss me slowly
Kiss me tenderly
Kiss me sweetly
Kiss me once, twice, thrice
Oooo! These kisses are very nice
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Life is confusing
When your heart is sad;
It is difficult to distinguish
Who your true friends are
And who are merely interlopers
Meddling to step in,
Maneuvering for positions of advantage.
I’d like to go back to a simpler time,
Fill my mind with poetry,
Gaze out into the sunlight
From an afternoon window,
Ride a horse and carriage with you
Until the world was true.
But I’ve been exiled in a cruel country,
Cutting my teeth on the sour fruit
Of dissipating dreams and vanished youth,
My unshaven face has a humble grace
But I do not think you will kiss me today.
They were a soft kiss that he felt on his lips.
The kiss was gentle and made him fell warm.
The kiss made him fell safe and secure.
Just for the special seconds he had her in his arms.
Even then this angel who kiss him disappeared.
He knows that deep in his heart.
He had a kiss of an angel in his heart.
No one to stop you
Even you can’t deny
The world will miss you
But you can’t delay
You be gone forever
People remember your deeds
In our heart you will live forever
You will be always in our dreams
You have left our footprints
Prints of love in our heart
And will stay there till our end
Miserable I am, without my sweetheart
The only constant the only truth
To leave behind all you achieved
If you been here someday you have to leave
Everything it takes the kiss of death
The only constant, the only truth
Kiss of death, death it is……..
Kiss is
Tastey of love...!
Each and every
Kisses is...
Tast too tastey
Of love...!
Love is
Healthy of
Life...!
So...,
Don't miss...
Do the kiss
With flower's...
Dog and cat
With water and duck...!
Too children and audult
Each day each for
Do the kisss...
Kiss is not only tasty
Kiss is also
Little little bit bit of
Love too love
Practical love
Ecah day by day
All are given the kiss
Take the love...
Age no bar...
Sex no bar...
Give to kiss all
Take to love all...!
Enjoy the love too kiss...!
Don't miss...!
Ok..do kiss...!
Let heavens bear witness-
As two musk roses
Cross-pollinate in ecstasy,
Amidst showers of honey-dew.
Let the galaxy reverberate
With unalloyed bliss,
As the little mermaid whispers:
“My Kalyanamitra!
Close your eyes,
Sharpen your senses,
Its time;
Receive my kiss of maitri;
Here… I touch your soul!
Now …
Cherish your Nirvana…..!
O-o-o-o- m-m-m-m………
Shantih…Shantih…Shantih! ! !
The soft plump faded pink lips
the green eyes looking deep
within the soul.
Friends for a year,
memories that would last a life
time.
Drooping my face towards the
stiff grey concrete.
Angles of today that are,
unheard of.
Never been kissed,
as the wet lips subside,
on there own.
Lonely and loosing love,
crackling the red heart within.
pain as it deteriates.
I want to take the heart beats from your body.
Fill in the gaps of the dried out heart.
catch you when you fall,
and be there when you need
someone to love youthe most.
your first wet smile,
to make yours greater in size.
The kiss you will remember and hold on to,
never letting go.
As i say i love you
you slip away
from me once and for all.
You've got me burning
My mind's wheels keep turning
No matter how hard I've tried
I always find myself tongue tied
mmm tongue tied with yours
my libido soars
touching you, touching me
you're all that I see
lying naked in my bed
can't get that image out of my head
kiss me, touch me,
feel me, want me
I can still smell your scent
and all my energy's spent
trying really hard not to care
yet I still feel your fingers in my hair
My hair draped over your face
it wasn't the time or place
me on top of you
it was all I could do
to not melt
from the ecstasy I felt
Kiss you, touch you
feel you, want you
A kiss down by the riverside,
When the waterspouts
Comes to life
And across the evergreen glide.
A kiss with your mouth open wide,
With noses nuzzling
And lying on a foliage mattress
With nothing to hide.
A kiss beneath the harvest moon,
In the wheat and the rye,
When pixies spiral to an eventide rune
'Til the morning Phoenix soars by.
A kiss during a fiery noon
In the fields of midday bloom
And so sings the loon
While petals rise from the gloom.
A kiss, for birds to sing,
For the winter to turn to spring
An exchange of bliss,
A kiss,
To melt a world of snow
In one breath of warm mist.
The Loneliness is unrelenting
Like the endless stretch of highway
Leading to the city
Where you reside.
I drive weary hour
After weary hour,
The road signs blur,
Lost in the rain showers
Of my unhappy eyes.
I don’t know when
I’ll hold your hand
In a flowery field.
Currently, I’m climbing
Mountains of despair;
But one day,
We’ll meet at dawn and kiss.
Skinned knees
Aching bellies
An Ankle sprain;
Mother, your one kiss was enough
To drive all the pain away
Time and again.
Depression striken
At crossroads
Groping for answers
Mother, your one kiss was enough
All dilemmas it did unchain
Time and again.
Unfulfilled promises
Soured friendship
Broken heart, ;
Mother can your kiss fix everything?
Can it mend these broken strings
Can it repair my hurt feelings?
Kiss me today mother,
Be my anchor of strength & hope.
Help me get through the onerous times
Help me handle the matters of mind and heart
Help me break away from these teenage trappings
Kiss me today mother, help me make a start.
Preeti Datar
(! 8 April,2006)
In this barroom,
They serve shots of despair
For alienated patrons to drink
And add further misery
To their laundry list of cares.
In August,
A man can be a hero
To his wife and child.
In September,
Sweeping their footsteps
From off the verandah.
In this life,
Tenderness is rare
Like an exotic African bird
Preserved in photography
In a coffee table book.
Next time I kiss a woman,
I’ll taste her breath
Slowly and sweetly,
Linger in her eyes
For eternity
Before I make my exit
And retreat into the shadows
Of another prolonged exile.
your northern smile embraces -
shining stars in the dimming sky
sparkles burst and pierce me
such brightness lightens my load
another day closes, sun sleeps
another night begins, stars keep
a hope of us together one day
across an ocean - now divides us
steps hasten screen door bangs
my chin lifts, eyes peering deep
this night is your day my sweet
slumber with fondest thoughts
our souls' yearning tendrils enlace.
Brunette lady
With dark mysterious eyes,
You even mesmerize the moonlight
Falling softly upon you with love.
In a midnight garden, roses sleep
Like happy angels,
But you walk with a man
Kissing the nape of your neck,
Running his hand beneath your blouse
To touch your stomach in ecstasy.
The heavens are breathing romance,
Amorous gods and goddesses are disrobing,
The world is becoming intoxicated
With the wine of desire,
And you alone surpass them all
With your supple body of captivating dreams,
With the slightest movements of your breasts
Making every gazing man tremulous,
Setting off lovely eruptions.
It is impossible to possess you,
But I would repeatedly kiss the pillow
That has cradled and caressed your head
While you peacefully slept
And left the world anxiously waiting
To see your magnificent vision again.
With an energy of love between our
Hands, fingers laced between the other.
That first touch of fire reveals the power
Starting to burst and starting to smother,
Tingling tightening, to squeeze off your air,
Blood rushes off to southern most parts,
Your scalp is alive with bumps in your hair,
Your face is reddened with a pounding heart,
Then he pulls you close and you feel the strength,
Of encircling arms around your waist,
Gently he presses, and kisses at length.
Then you look into his rugged soft face,
And smiling and giggling, at all this,
You try and savor your very first kiss.
I like to watch you sleep
Sometimes you sigh
It makes my heart leap
your mouth slightly open
I can’t resist touching your lips
Its softness gets me smitten
My lips moistened
I lean over to steal a kiss
Once again I was summoned
I get so close to your face
you are amazingly beautiful
I feel my heart starting to race
Feeling your warm breathing
Bringing a fever to my whole body
A tenderness I am yearning
Suddenly you awakened
Smiling like I was expected
And the rest is what I have envisioned
The waters rippled on an incoming tide
The shimmering finger of the moon
Danced on the small waves
A hiss of rolling stones broke the silence
As waves invaded and retreated on the shore
They walked oblivious to it all
The silent whispers from their eyes
Told the age old story
As they strolled beneath the heavens
With its millions of eyes
No voices broke the stillness
Of their evening bliss
The smiles etched on their faces
Only spoke of a stolen kiss
That kiss, that kiss.
That kiss, that I do miss.
That love, that love.
Prettier than a dove.
That heart, that heart.
That heart, that shone like art.
Her hair, her hair.
It floated on the air.
That lie, that lie.
That lie, that made her cry.
The fool, the fool.
I was, to think it cool.
The knife, the knife.
That ended my life.
With wide open eyes, she looked at me,
And climbing up, upon my knee,
Gave me a kiss, which touched my heart
And launched a pain, as if a dart
Had entered my old ageing soul,
And found therein it's final goal!
She smiled and all the joy was mine,
A million stars shone by design,
And twinkled, my whole body, through,
Filling my being with life anew.
With that one kiss, we were as one
Together. Our lives had just begun.
©   Ernestine Northover
Let me kiss that special kiss
the one that's more than touch
that gentle pressing of the lips
persuading blood to rush
The kiss that makes you tremble
and makes your legs go weak
a moist embrace of tenderness
that takes you to your peak
With a heady scent of passion
It makes your body sway
the kiss that penetrates your soul
and takes your breath away
It lingers for a lifetime
you never will forget
the bursting of your senses
when our emotions met.
An angel stood beside the bed
Where lay the living and the dead.
He gave the mother -- her who died --
A kiss that Christ the Crucified
Had sent to greet the weary soul
When, worn and faint, it reached its goal.
He gave the infant kisses twain,
One on the breast, one on the brain.
"Go forth into the world," he said,
"With blessings on your heart and head,
"For God, who ruleth righteously,
Hath ordered that to such as be
"From birth deprived of mother's love,
I bring His blessing from above;
"But if the mother's life he spare
Then she is made God's messenger
"To kiss and pray that heart and brain
May go through life without a stain."
The infant moved towards the light,
The angel spread his wings in flight.
But each man carries to his grave
The kisses that in hopes to save
The angel or his mother gave.
On Helen’s heart the day were night!
But I may not adventure there:
Here breast is guarded by a right,
And she is true as fair.
And though in happy days her eyes
The glow within mine own could please,
She’s purer than the babe who cries
For empire on her knees.
Her love is for her lord and child,
And unto them belongs her snow;
But none can rob me of her wild
Young kiss of long ago!
Woman, you are the one who lingers
In my mind with aching tenderness,
But you are hidden in the distance,
Walking through the business world
With your stately shoulders
In a summer dress;
Your smile is brief and suggests
Inner-stirring ideas
For the moment suppressed.
Are your thoughts
All professional and money related?
Or do you drift
Into your young girl affairs
And the first lucky boy
To kiss your virgin breasts?
I would have been
That fortunate and karma-blessed boy
If circumstance and geography
Would have brought me
To the wondrous parks and haunts
Of your girlhood dreams.
It would have been love
And I wouldn’t have lost you
To indelicate or cruel mistakes of time,
I would have cherished your breath
And would have kept you
Like a mystical and sacred locket
Forever next to my heart.
What smouldering senses in death's sick delay
Or seizure of malign vicissitude
Can rob this body of honour, or denude
This soul of wedding-raiment worn to-day?
For lo! even now my lady's lips did play
With these my lips such consonant interlude
As laurelled Orpheus longed for when he wooed
The half-drawn hungering face with that last lay.
I was a child beneath her touch, -- a man
When breast to breast we clung, even I and she, --
A spirit when her spirit looked through me, --
A god when all our life-breath met to fan
Our life-blood, till love's emulous ardours ran,
Fire within fire, desire in deity.
As we journey
drift from drift-
-wood to drift-wood
She asks me:
“Where do waves come from? ”
“Who is sky? ”
“How is green?
“Why is water? ”
I do my best(I
a mere father)   to answer
but she is already
listening to a shell
tell of the vast sea
inside her.
1  Among thy fancies, tell me this,
What is the thing we call a kiss?
2  I shall resolve ye what it is:--
It is a creature born and bred
Between the lips, all cherry-red,
By love and warm desires fed,--
CHOR.  And makes more soft the bridal bed.
2  It is an active flame, that flies
First to the babies of the eyes,
And charms them there with lullabies,--
CHOR.  And stills the bride, too, when she cries.
2  Then to the chin, the cheek, the ear,
It frisks and flies, now here, now there:
'Tis now far off, and then 'tis near,--
CHOR.  And here, and there, and every where.
1  Has it a speaking virtue?  2  Yes.
1  How speaks it, say?  2  Do you but this,--
Part your join'd lips, then speaks your kiss;
CHOR.  And this Love's sweetest language is.
1  Has it a body?  2  Ay, and wings,
With thousand rare encolourings;
And as it flies, it gently sings--
CHOR.  Love honey yields, but never stings.
That kiss, that kiss
That childlike kiss
That pecky on the cheek kiss
That I am here kiss
That who the hell cares kiss
That kiss, that kiss I miss
My mouth blooms like a cut.
I've been wronged all year, tedious
nights, nothing but rough elbows in them
and delicate boxes of Kleenex calling crybaby
crybaby, you fool!
Before today my body was useless.
Now it's tearing at its square corners.
It's tearing old Mary's garments off, knot by knot
and see - Now it's shot full of these electric bolts.
Zing! A resurrection!
Once it was a boat, quite wooden
and with no business, no salt water under it
and in need of some paint. It was no more
than a group of boards. But you hoisted her, rigged her.
She's been elected.
My nerves are turned on. I hear them like
musical instruments. Where there was silence
the drums, the strings are incurably playing. You did this.
Pure genius at work. Darling, the composer has stepped
into fire.
What's in a kiss; how many there-be...?
'So many, it boggles the mind's reality…'
A kiss can be a greeting- “of body and soul-! '
It's an unspoken language, telling more than “what's told.”
It is sometimes “a spark-, ” to light one's flame…
Or often “self-flattery” to play one's game.
There's the 'kiss of friendship-, '
The 'kiss of guile…, '
The 'kiss of SINCERITY, '
The 'kiss of style…, '
There's the 'kiss of Life” and the 'kiss of Death! '
There's the 'kiss that steals one's breath away…”
And one “that prays it will last all day! ”
There's the 'kiss that frees the soul…'
Also one that 'detours from one's goal…! '
There's the kiss of a parent, the “kiss of a child…, ”
The “kiss of curiosity- running wild…! ”
The kiss of respect; and a kiss of shame…,
A kiss of honor- and “a kiss to tame…! ”
There's a kiss of the reserved-, “perceived amorous- (the same): ”
A kiss of 'the insecure-, ' to win their ball game!
There's a 'kiss of the stagnant; ' the 'kiss of the free…! ”
Also a 'kiss of those secure-, ” as the best there can be…
Yet what's in a kiss-, that's the question still…?
Maybe, it's how we perceive it to be-,
A reflection of “our state-of-mind…! ”
But; there's the kiss of harmony…
A kiss that divides…
A kiss that is honest…
And a kiss that hides….
There's a kiss of the clever…
A kiss of the mundane…
There's “a kiss like a symphony-, ” with rapturous refrain…!
There’s a plane where “Mercy and Truth meet intimately in bliss; ”
In the plumbline-address, where “Righteousness and Peace kiss! ”
Yet 'still-in-all-, ' maybe the question should be-,
Not 'what's in a kiss” but “what’s in the Kisser, ' you see…
'I saw you take his kiss!' ''Tis true.'
'O, modesty!' ' 'Twas strictly kept:
He thought me asleep; at least I knew
He thought I thought he thought I slept.'
What smouldering senses in death's sick delay
Or seizure of malign vicissitude
Can rob this body of honour, or denude
This soul of wedding-raiment worn to-day?
For lo! even now my lady's lips did play
With these my lips such consonant interlude
As laurelled Orpheus longed for when he wooed
The half-drawn hungering face with that last lay.
I was a child beneath her touch, -- a man
When breast to breast we clung, even I and she, --
A spirit when her spirit looked through me, --
A god when all our life-breath met to fan
Our life-blood, till love's emulous ardours ran,
Fire within fire, desire in deity.
The snow is white on wood and wold,
The wind is in the firs,
So dead my heart is with the cold,
No pulse within it stirs,
Even to see your face, my dear,
Your face that was my sun;
There is no spring this bitter year,
And summer's dreams are done.
The snakes that lie about my heart
Are in their wintry sleep;
Their fangs no more deal sting and smart,
No more they curl and creep.
Love with the summer ceased to be;
The frost is firm and fast.
God keep the summer far from me,
And let the snakes' sleep last!
Touch of your hand could not suffice
To waken them once more;
Nor could the sunshine of your eyes
A ruined spring restore.
But ah-your lips! You know the rest:
The snows are summer rain,
My eyes are wet, and in my breast
The snakes' fangs meet again.
Here we are
Again in the circle
Our lives passing
Before our eyes
Somehow we’re
On the outside
Looking in
As someone else
Lives our lives
And there—
A kiss
From me to you
Only it’s not you
And it’s not me
Bodies don’t mean
Anything
Because the souls are
Misplaced and mislead
To a faraway land
Where dreams
Mingle and dance
With reality
And it’s not me and you
That live on the inside
We found the
Outside world
Of magick and drugs
Faerie wings and trolls
A place where sex
Isn’t sex
Not teenagers speeding
Up the path
To adulthood
But souls adjacent
And molding
A kiss,
The kiss,
A moment’s bliss,
Upon a face that has been kissed a thousand times before,
One kiss,
This kiss,
A silky hiss,
That tells its’ secret tales of what the butler saw,
Parted lips,
A moments’ pressure,
Painted lips,
A moments’ pleasure.
I hoped that he would love me,
And he has kissed my mouth,
But I am like a stricken bird
That cannot reach the south.
For though I know he loves me,
To-night my heart is sad;
His kiss was not so wonderful
As all the dreams I had.
To these I turn, in these I trust;
Brother Lead and Sister Steel.
To his blind power I make appeal;
I guard her beauty clean from rust.
He spins and burns and loves the air,
And splits a skull to win my praise;
But up the nobly marching days
She glitters naked, cold and fair.
Sweet Sister, grant your soldier this;
That in good fury he may feel
The body where he sets his heel
Quail from your downward darting kiss.
AS WILLIAM walking with his wife was seen,
A man of rank admired her lovely mien.
Who gave you such a charming fair? he cried,
May I presume to kiss your beauteous bride?
With all my heart, replied the humble swain,
You're welcome, sir:--I beg you'll not refrain;
She's at your service: take the boon, I pray;
You'll not such offers meet with ev'ry day.
THE gentleman proceeded as desired;
To get a kiss, alone he had aspired;
So fervently howe'er he pressed her lip,
That Petronella blushed at ev'ry sip.
SEVEN days had scarcely run, when to his arms,
The other took a wife with seraph charms;
And William was allowed to have a kiss,
That filled his soul with soft ecstatic bliss.
Cried he, I wish, (and truly I am grieved)
That when the gentleman a kiss received,
From her I love, he'd gone to greater height,
And with my Petronella passed the night.
The one kiss
I ought to have dismissed
Is haunting me like an unsettled ghost
I felt a lingering sweetness in its taste
Enriched with sensuality and ripeness
I just refused to let it go to waste
The temptation to sample
The kiss of the forbidden apple
was there, out in open air
A kiss is not just a kiss
With my heart the kiss unlocked a door
I never knew was there before
Now I long for more and more
Wishing for everything to be like before
Presently my mind wanders without rest
Time has passed,
My mind still wanders without rest
To forget, I try to do my  best
My eyes which were once closed
Are now wide open
Searching, seeking, trying so hard to spot
The one kiss
I ought to have dismissed
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
There's a kiss to say I love you,
There's a kiss to say I care.
There's a kiss to prove our friendship,
There's a kiss for us to share.
There's a kiss to say it's true
But the kiss I love the most,
Is the kiss I get from you.
I will kiss you
good night
good morning
good day
when you open your eyes
when you close them again
I will kiss you
lips exploring textures untested
new tastes, new temptation
probing, delicious and sweet
dancing, delighting
teasing
I will kiss you
as you feast upon my love
as you consume my body
let me fill you with my joy
then,
I will kiss you again.
this kiss wasn’t just a kiss
this kiss was the demise of eternal bliss
this kiss wasn’t just a second of meaningless feelings
this kiss was the end of priceless beginnings
this kiss wasn’t just a thing you had to do
this kiss was the duration of me and you
this kiss…this kiss…this kiss
Humid seal of soft affections,
Tend'rest pledge of future bliss,
Dearest tie of young connections,
Love's first snow-drop, virgin kiss.
Speaking silence, dumb confession,
Passion's birth, and infants' play,
Dove-like fondness, chaste concession,
Glowing dawn of brighter day.
Sorrowing joy, adieu's last action,
Ling'ring lips, -- no more to join!
What words can ever speak affection
Thrilling and sincere as thine!
Excuse me…
While I kiss this guy
What would he do
If I gave it a try?
Would he kiss me back?
Or would he even pucker?
Would he latch onto me
Like an all day sucker?
Sometimes you wanna
But you just don’t dare
And sometimes you do
‘cause you just don’t care
I kinda relate it to
that box of chocolate
You just never quite know
What you ‘re gonna get
Do guys wanna do the kissing?
Or do they want to be kissed?
And if we skipped it altogether
Would it even be missed?
Now that I think about it
Kissing is maybe overrated
But you gotta start somewhere
Or the night is ill-fated
Then you close your eyes
And feel him close to your face
Then surprise…he’s already
Moved to second base
So guys share your target
My neck…above or beneath?
Should I shave my legs?
Or brush my teeth?
A room
no music
nobody within
i am out
when i am back
music
no room
Square of
music and tears
square of fear,
erected laugh and murder
The Kiss
i could see
the dagger
and the lightning
of fear
glinted on it
A dropp of tear
i heard the hiss.
A stream of blood
i remember a kiss
You awaken
my sleeping
with a long slow kiss
my face enclosed
in your falling hair
I worship
your mouth
and its holy kisses
as if a sacrement
I was recieving
you
the blessing.
What is
kiss...?
kiss is
Love...?
kiss is
A sex...
Kiss is..
Gift...
Kiss is
funney...
Kiss is
a body smile...
Kiss is
wonder...
Kiss is
What...?
What is
Kiss...?
Kissing thing...
Kisser thing...
That's all for
Kiss...
You wanted kiss...
You kiss another one...
ok...
kiss it...
Or kiss me...
With kiss...
Kiss is
Happness...
kiss is
Enjoy...
Kiss is
Little bit
Of love...
Kiss is
Lovingely
Of
Sex...
Do kiss
Enjoy is...
Any day
Any time...
With your lip''s...!
I  can feel your magical touch,
when you kiss me,
I can feel your kiss,
With every bliss,
When you kissed me that afternoon,
I knew you were the one,
Your kiss, made everything right,
Although it scared me a tone,
Your kiss, swept me away,
Like a big powerful wave,
Your kiss, made my day,
I could feel you in every way,
Your kiss, was longed for,
It made me nervous,
Your kiss, lingered within,
It moved me,
Your kiss, remained in my thoughts,
Leaving me wanting more,
Your kiss, consumed me,
In one single moment.
Your kiss, so sweet, so tender.
Your kiss that makes my heart swell.
Your kiss that drives me into unknown passion.
Your kiss that makes my stomach flutter.
Your kiss that makes me know I'm loved by you.
Your kiss that is unhesitant to be bestowed upon me.
Your kiss that sends me into a poetic bliss.
They looked up, Alligator and Crocodile,
and saw the most beautiful face smiling
at them, the lovely face of the rain queen
softly laughing, they heard the copper rings
clanging on the queen’s dancing feet, they
heard her sweet laughter within the weather’s
rumbling, she slowly advanced, spreading the
grey blanket of her life-giving veil, spun of clouds
thick and blue, building to purple and black, gone
was the sun, its fiery hue quenched by clouds
rolling on, and softly, mischievously, the rain
spread its mists as the rain queen danced
demurely at first, then wilder and wilder, more exciting,
enticing, Alligator and Crocodile joined in the dance, the
little folk of the plains, everyone, joined in the dance
hands clapping, feet drumming, voices lifted in song:
The rain is come, the rain is come, the rain queen is
here and listens to our song – The rain is come
Oh joy and love, joy and life, joy for evermore!
[Based on “The Dance of the Rain from Dwaalstories' by
Eugène N. Marias]
Each time I hear a baby's laughter
I feel a tickle in my heart.
I have to stop and listen better
Catching each note of musical art.
Such innocent laugh in joy released,
A soothing balm for a wearied soul.
All earthly worries seem to ease,
A baby's laughter makes me whole.
-
(Composed July 18,2008 -Tarlac City Philippines
ALL the bells of heaven may ring,
All the birds of heaven may sing,
All the wells on earth may spring,
All the winds on earth may bring
All sweet sounds together---
Sweeter far than all things heard,
Hand of harper, tone of bird,
Sound of woods at sundawn stirred,
Welling water's winsome word,
Wind in warm wan weather,
One thing yet there is, that none
Hearing ere its chime be done
Knows not well the sweetest one
Heard of man beneath the sun,
Hoped in heaven hereafter;
Soft and strong and loud and light,
Very sound of very light
Heard from morning's rosiest height,
When the soul of all delight
Fills a child's clear laughter.
Golden bells of welcome rolled
Never forth such notes, nor told
Hours so blithe in tones so bold,
As the radiant mouth of gold
Here that rings forth heaven.
If the golden-crested wren
Were a nightingale---why, then,
Something seen and heard of men
Might be half as sweet as when
Laughs a child of seven.
One of a kind this cheerful sound
A child's laughter wherever it's found
From the giggling of a baby in a playpen
To the laughter of a toddler again and again
A child's laughter can bring a smile
To one who hasn't done so in such a long while
I know because that one was me
Until my daughter's laugh set mine free
A child's laughter so gleeful and pure
An innocence adults miss for sure
Laughter that can bring back the past
And memories of a youth that flew by so fast
A child's laughter can bring out the best
Of most any man when he's depressed
Cause his spirit that's fallen to soar
Until at last he laughs once more
each of us is reflecting,
blue carbon paper,
created to resemblance.
so often I can see in the street,
similar in wiped jackets,
lined with the wind and... with wind...
I can sometimes see myself,
with fear, when I get lost
between them in the sleep.
I am handing out golden coins
from my pocket, but it  quickly are ending
and this way I am staying.
in a minute bare and barefooted,
I am waking up in the warm bed,
with you and thrusts, because supposedly
I still have the conscience,
but I am lacking the courage
in order to admit to it.
laughter in the room... would fell me from legs...
And beholds freakish laughter …
Hasty rhythm and creative scope,
But it is possible to appear in emptiness,
And prank disappears at once,
And the soul freezes in a cold …
But, he laughs loudly from is far, _
The deceptive visual field is dismissed...
She quickens from attracting
And beholds freakish laughter …
Have you ever heard a giraffe laugh,
Or a chimpanzee go hee hee hee?
Have you happened to hear a rhino ho ho,
Or the goofy giggle of a happy little flea?
In the middle of our porridge plates
There was a blue butterfly painted
And each morning we tried who should reach the
butterfly first.
Then the Grandmother said:  "Do not eat the poor
butterfly."
That made us laugh.
Always she said it and always it started us laughing.
It seemed such a sweet little joke.
I was certain that one fine morning
The butterfly would fly out of our plates,
Laughing the teeniest laugh in the world,
And perch on the Grandmother's lap.
It makes me want to laugh
sawing a girl in half
and missing the mark
a bomb going off
in the middle of the park
a bird flying in an ocean of blue
hitting a pane of glass
invisible to view
It makes me want to laugh
telling them its showers
when its actually gas
when lullabies are sung for babies
who are perched precariously
on the limbs of trees
It makes me want to laugh
Those who believe in some great reward
when their next-door neighbor has a body stored
under freshly cemented foundation
But in all of creation...
It makes me want to laugh
when we blow up points on a map
on one man's behalf.
leaving thousands dead
It makes me want to laugh.
But I'll think I'll cry now instead.
Daughters are in ways proverbial gypsies.
Content an playful in their itsy bitsys.
The skip, the hop,
Wicker basket, off to shop.
Feel like the waft of calming breeze.
Wide eyed look when you sneeze.
Tender touch of a flower on cheek.
Your loving nod yearn to seek.
Add so much color to life,
forget you all the anguish, strife.
Vivacious laughter thrills.
The nooks an crannies fills.
Your heart and soul bloom.
Wash away your gloom.
They the tender shoots of today.
In time shall bloom another day.
Bring forth flowers of the morrows.
To slake the torment of your sorrows.
And one day late in evening shadows.
Amid song, dance and the meadows.
They go their way.
Far away.
To a new abode, a better place.
To lend a cheer, to give solace.
Leave the stark an silence behind.
For you to find.
Only the stars to guide you by.
Awake in bed as you lie!
(Islamabad)
(May 13,2009)
Dedicated to laughter! Yes!
It gives your brain a tickle!
It brings a lotto happiness,
You've gotto have a giggle!
Don't hold it back! Let it be free!
Roll on the floor as well!
Then other folks will laugh with glee -
And think it's wonderfell...
Children are known to laugh the most -
They've learnt to tell jokes, too...
With limericks from coast-to-coast
To get the message through!
Yes, laughter lifts the lungs like songs...
Thus tensions melt away...
That's why all comics should get gongs
When honours are given in May...
If I get knighted, as it were,
The day I leave The Mall,
Be kind enough to call me, SIR!
Not Mister, mate or pal!
All wise-cracks pour from lightning brains
That see life's ironies,
Sifting out truths from lies like grains
With food for thought to please!
I'd like to think that humour spreads
Like smiles as joy imparts.
Some jokes are like fine thoroughbreds -
They're trained to thrill our hearts!
Blessed is the soul that's learnt to laugh
Yet cares for other folks -
It proves a noble epitaph
That one was known for jokes!
A precious pun's not always cute!
But sometimes it's OK...
So do your best to be astute!
You'll make somebody's day!
We lie together
head to head
dreams wander
from one head to
another
as if it didn’t
matter
which head is
which
as long
as there are dreams
& laughter.
On thing I admire, nay two things
always strike me as admirable:
The way evil characters always
laugh with total happy abandon
About their plots to overthrow the
world, and the way they always
love their cats, mostly white with
blue eyes – given the importance
Of joyous laughter in our lives,
people having pets living longer,
healthy lives - this phenomenon
is deserving of attention
I am thinking of a scheme to overthrow
the world so I can throw back my head
to laugh long and hard and happily,
Hollywood has this down pat
By making villains keep taped laughter
in a box – preferably on a wheel-chair’s
side  – as villains are mostly sitting there,
having lost a limb or two
They turn it on for special effect upon
pronouncing their next evil event – luckily
my cell-phone announces incoming messages
with a bout of hysterical laughter
I always irritate my wife by laughing along; the
cat I already have, an evil creature, trying to
scratch me whenever I pass - I’m sure to
enjoy all the advantages of evil
Laughter; keeping an arch-villain cat as the
basis of the evil plot that is my life!
laughing faces
of little boys on the bank
of the river
sounds of running feet
fainting
the song of the river
farther away
Rain falls from heaven and we catch it on our tongues
We laugh a proper laugh
Noses are cold
Hand stuffed in pockets to keep off the chill
We laugh a proper laugh
Walking and talking
We laugh a proper laugh
A boat passes and we stand still to watch
It passes us by
Like the years since your first cry
And we laugh a proper laugh
Sticks are thrown
Flowers are picked
And we laugh a proper laugh
We walk heads flung back mouths wide open
To catch
Rain that falls from heaven
chasing after the fireflies
of fading laughter
ears bleed
We dashed outside
as the sky was falling.
“Crunch...crunch...crunch! ”
chanted the snow
as our footprints
chatted to it
in a bold yellow
booted voice
and slowly a bird
wrote itself across the sky
with such careful calligraphy
& our laughter
froze
right in front of our noses.
*******
OH SNOW!
(For Scarlett)
One day
the snow
popped its head
‘round the door
asked if it could stay
a week or maybe more.
Our smiles
said “Sure! ”
In & out
out & in
we lived
in its whiteness
until my feet
as if they weren’t part of me no more
demanded to come in
dreaming now of a roaring fire.
Flames! Flames!
I stuck my feet
in front of the fire
preferring chilblains to frostbite
but the snow
kept on calling for me.
“Come out...come out...jump about
in me! ”
I put my feet in my wellies
sent them out
to tramp about
in the fields of memory
but I kept
the rest of me
inside
hugging the fire
cuddling it
as it cuddled me.
A survivor
of my first ever remembered snow
that falls forever
over & over
as it remembers
me.
Humour
means happiness
If you can laugh in life
forgetting all the pain and strife
he may not say the words 'begone dull wife'
but will dance around the house
to waltzes by Strauss.
Love depends on
Humour
People say there is nothing funnier then laughter
You can even chuckle some long hours after
You laugh at what is sometimes seen
You laugh at things you do not mean
Yet some where in all hilarity
In amongst that crazy parody
Will Someone please tell me, I’ll give you money
What makes laughter, so darn funny!
Why, when you laugh do people laugh too?
Laugh not at things you say or things you do
Its crazy how when nothing’s funny
People laugh and clutch their to tummy
Will anybody tell me? Wouldn’t you? please, sonny
What makes laughter so gosh darn funny!
Yes, What makes laughter so gosh darn FUNNY!
Laugh every day
It will add years to your life
And make your face shine
Tenderly
I set the trap
with words
to catch
the flight of her
laughter.
Her laughter
flew up into the air
turned into
an enormous bouquet
each petal
a butterfly
until my mind
fluttered with each
delicious delight
and the room
became a gilded box
that housed
the treasure of her
laughter
floating out of
the window
until it touched
the stars.
Hold not thy laughter
For that joyful sound
I am forever after, seeking when you are around
Waiting for it to chortle, in the background
Hold not thy laughter
As it fights to escapes thy lips
To send me on joyful trips
Your giggles and cackles
Harmlessly tend to baffle
Your happy facial expressions
Paint only a gleeful picture of inspiration
As we rejoice to thy jubilant noises in full attention
Hold not thy laughter from the heart
Hold not thy laughter until we part
Hold not thy laughter as we make a start
When I dispel in my gloom
Thy laughter delivers me
Safely from my state of doom
Sadness runs outside from my room
Happiness inside glows with a boom
As my rosy cheeks mirthfully blossom
Hold not thy laughter as we cheerfully chat
Hold not thy laughter when you publicly fart
Hold not thy laughter whatever the format
A giggle, a chuckle, a titter not a snigger
Laugh it out whether thin or fat
Fill the air, my dear
Laugh it out before it scats out flat
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
Check out my latest 'Justice & If I were a girl'
Yes, her laughter rang hollow
but they stayed right behind,
one good reason to follow
was that some were quite blind.
Ah, we hate the assertive
in  a woman at that,
throwing glances so furtive
at her dress and her hat.
If we look past our noses
we may see a bit more;
even tulips and roses
may appeal to a boar.
It's a boomerang's giggle
as it homes in on you
will you dance, will you wiggle
or go hide in the loo?
I burst into laughter
whenever I hear
that the fish is thirsty in water.
Without the knowledge of Self
people just wander to Mathura or to Kashi
like the musk-deer unaware
of the scent in his navel,
goes on running forest to forest.
In water is the lotus plant
and the plant bears flowers
and on the flowers are the bees buzzing.
Likewise all yogis and mendicants
and all those who have renounced comforts,
are on here and hereafter and the nether world -
contemplating.
Friend, the Supreme Indestructible Being,
on whom thousands of sages meditate
and even Brahma, Vishnu and Mahesh,
really resides within one's self.
Though He is near, He appears far away -
and that is what makes one disturbed;
says Kabir, listen, O wise one,
by Guru alone is the confusion curbed.
I crave your eyes, your laughter, your touch
I crave the smile of your eyes
the warmth of your breath
the scent of your eyelids
and the kindness of your touch.
I crave the opening of your lips
the agreement between your smile and your tears
I crave, I crave the voice in your laughter
the melodies of your finger tips
and the dialect of your eyes.
I crave your eyes, your laughter, and your touch
without it, I am the sound of an empty journey
without it, i am the missing petals of spring gardens,
without it, i am the tears of winter clouds,
without it, i am a woman without her skin.
O, laugh, laughers!
O, laugh out, laughers!
You who laugh with laughs, you who laugh it up laughishly
O, laugh out laugheringly
O, belaughable laughterhood - the laughter of laughering laughers!
O, unlaugh it outlaughingly, belaughering laughists!
Laughily, laughily,
Uplaugh, enlaugh, laughlings, laughlings
Laughlets, laughlets.
O, laugh, laughers!
O, laugh out, laughers!
We laugh at the same funny things,
Our quick sense of humour just springs
From being together,
Whatever the weather,
It's wonderful what such laughter brings.
We can each see the funny side, that's true,
But of course we can sometimes be blue,
But if one of us is down,
Then the others a clown
Enticing a smile to break through.
Sometimes, when we're both very tired,
And we feel that we're electrically wired,
Something just makes us smile,
And after a while,
We can laugh, which is just what's required.
I won't say there's not sadness in life,
But try looking beyond all the strife,
We keep smiling along,
Till the sadness has gone,
That's the delight of being 'husband and wife'.
©   Ernestine Northover
I believe, in placing ones family first.
I believe that many successful people,
leave in their path, countless orphans
of success.
I believe, when the sickness is sadness,
laughter is the cure.
I believe, that a good work ethic, can
serve all of us well.
I believe in good wine and good friends.
I believe, in a time each day, to give thanks.
I believe in forgiveness.
I believe, if one can forgive a friend,
then surely, one can forgive family.
I believe in the power of the written word.
I still believe in hand written letters.
I believe the first cup of coffee in the
morning, is the best.
© Joe Fazio
THERE is no laughter in the natural world
Of beast or fish or bird, though no sad doubt
Of their futurity to them unfurled
Has dared to check the mirth-compelling shout.
The lion roars his solemn thunder out
To the sleeping woods. The eagle screams her cry.
Even the lark must strain a serious throat
To hurl his blest defiance at the sky.
Fear, anger, jealousy, have found a voice.
Love’s pain or rapture the brute bosoms swell.
Nature has symbols for her nobler joys,
Her nobler sorrows. Who had dared foretell
That only man, by some sad mockery,
Should learn to laugh who learns that he must die?
Laughter and Joy had
Danced a dance of promise
Spinning, twirling fun...
As the Sun withdrew his rays from the garden, and the moon threw cushioned beams upon the flowers, I sat under the trees pondering upon the phenomena of the atmosphere, looking through the branches at the strewn stars which glittered like chips of silver upon a blue carpet; and I could hear from a distance the agitated murmur of the rivulet singing its way briskly into the valley.
When the birds took shelter among the boughs, and the flowers folded their petals, and tremendous silence descended, I heard a rustle of feet though the grass. I took heed and saw a young couple approaching my arbor. The say under a tree where I could see them without being seen.
After he looked about in every direction, I heard the young man saying, "Sit by me, my beloved, and listen to my heart; smile, for your happiness is a symbol of our future; be merry, for the sparkling days rejoice with us.
"My soul is warning me of the doubt in your heart, for doubt in love is a sin. "Soon you will be the owner of this vast land, lighted by this beautiful moon; soon you will be the mistress of my palace, and all the servants and maids will obey your commands.
"Smile, my beloved, like the gold smiles from my father's coffers.
"My heart refuses to deny you its secret. Twelve months of comfort and travel await us; for a year we will spend my father's gold at the blue lakes of Switzerland, and viewing the edifices of Italy and Egypt, and resting under the Holy Cedars of Lebanon; you will meet the princesses who will envy you for your jewels and clothes.
"All these things I will do for you; will you be satisfied?"
In a little while I saw them walking and stepping on flowers as the rich step upon the hearts of the poor. As they disappeared from my sight, I commenced to make comparison between love and money, and to analyze their position in the heart.
Money! The source of insincere love; the spring of false light and fortune; the well of poisoned water; the desperation of old age!
I was still wandering in the vast desert of contemplation when a forlorn and specter-like couple passed by me and sat on the grass; a young man and a young woman who had left their farming shacks in the nearby fields for this cool and solitary place.
After a few moments of complete silence, I heard the following words uttered with sighs from weather-bitten lips, "Shed not tears, my beloved; love that opens our eyes and enslaves our hearts can give us the blessing of patience. Be consoled in our delay our delay, for we have taken an oath and entered Love's shrine; for our love will ever grow in adversity; for it is in Love's name that we are suffering the obstacles of poverty and the sharpness of misery and the emptiness of separation. I shall attack these hardships until I triumph and place in your hands a strength that will help over all things to complete the journey of life.
"Love - which is God - will consider our sighs and tears as incense burned at His altar and He will reward us with fortitude. Good-bye, my beloved; I must leave before the heartening moon vanishes."
A pure voice, combined of the consuming flame of love, and the hopeless bitterness of longing and the resolved sweetness of patience, said, "Good-bye, my beloved."
They separated, and the elegy to their union was smothered by the wails of my crying heart.
I looked upon slumbering Nature, and with deep reflection discovered the reality of a vast and infinite thing -- something no power could demand, influence acquire, nor riches purchase. Nor could it be effaced by the tears of time or deadened by sorrow; a thing which cannot be discovered by the blue lakes of Switzerland or the beautiful edifices of Italy.
It is something that gathers strength with patience, grows despite obstacles, warms in winter, flourishes in spring, casts a breeze in summer, and bears fruit in autumn -- I found Love.
The light turned red
and there I sat
and watched a cuddle
inside a puddle.
A bird was dead
had cracked his head
against a truck,
what rotten luck!
His wife now tried
to be the guide
and make him fly
up in the sky.
She glanced at me
for company
but then she saw
the brain, so raw
and bright red blood
all mixed with mud.
Yet she remained,
her feathers stained
all drained of life -
a shattered wife.
Now came the law,
he looked and saw
that some dumb bird
sat undeterred
and full of grief,
'so', said the chief,
'you must disperse,
I cannot be for him the nurse.'
She would not budge
a final nudge
did not revive
her mate named Clive.
The copper took
his ticked book
and threw it high
to make her fly.
Now she was sad
but also mad
and could indeed
get up to speed.
She now attacked
the cop and whacked
with her strong beak
this cruel freak.
And then she rose
above his nose
and let it fly
into his eye.
Her spouse had just
as we all must
freed from his bod
the soul for God.
He now observed
how his unnerved
and angry mate
could vent her hate.
He laughed so hard,
God dropped his guard
the soul returned
and he had earned
a great reprieve,
no need to leave.
And if you aim to fight and win
Just laugh, it's super medicine.
LAUGHTER & CRIES
The question
crawls around the classroom.
My most happy
& unhappy
time
of all.
One little boy reveals:
“The most unhappy time
for me
was when...'
Here he falters
as if he can’t
...go on.
“Go on...” I gently
nudge.
“...was when my Playstation
broke down! ”
“I see...” I say.
“And my most happy time
was when it got...”
(he’s on a roll now)
“...it got fixed again.”
Little girl on my right
without any encouragement
whispers wistfully
as if thinking to herself:
“My most unhappy time
was when...”
“My Mummy broke up
with my Daddy.”
She sighs:
“And I didn’t see him
at all.”
“My most happy time
was when...”
(she smiles secretly to herself)
“...came back again.”
Just then
the bell rings
& the playground
is awash
with laughter
& cries.
*******
THE SNAKES & LADDERS OF MY LIFE
I had 2 boy fishes
Bubble & Squeak
(but they croaked it) .
I cried when they died.
Now I’ve got 2 girl fishes
Kisses & Cuddles
(& they swim real neat) .
Sweet!
I lost my teeth
& Mum meets
her new boyfriend Trev.
Mum & Dad - split.
Dad got engaged.
My sister had her first kid
at 15.
I had my hair cut short
& was sad.
I think poetry...puberty’s
a bit of a change
because you grow tall
grow spots
grow more hairs
in private......places.
I got a lot older   &   I kissed my first girl.
Girls have changes in their chests
becoming outstanding.
Testicles get bigger.
Both sexes change emotions.
The way I feel ‘bout growing up is
...I’m scared!
I got shingles because I was depressed.
I got foot & mouth for humans.
I got something wrong with my legs.
I don’t want to grow up but
I will have to
...just deal with it!
I swam with dolphins.
This is the Snakes ‘n’ Ladders
of my life.
*******
These are not my words...I just strung them together on a string to see where it would take them.  I was marking essays for the little ones who had just left the secure world of primary and were now floating around lost in secondary.  They were given the essay title LIFE CHANGES and these are the words and life stories of 32 little people and how they see the world and themselves. I didn't change anything just collected and collated and put them together to make this pattern.  This is their individual/collective poem. Their voices and view of the world is unmistakeably their own!
Ay, thou varlet! Laugh away!
All the world's a holiday!
Laugh away, and roar and shout
Till thy hoarse tongue lolleth out!
Bloat thy cheeks, and bulge thine eyes
Unto bursting; pelt thy thighs
With thy swollen palms, and roar
As thou never hast before!
Lustier! Wilt thou! Peal on peal!
Stiflest? Squat and grind thy heel--
Wrestle with thy loins, and then
Wheeze thee whiles, and whoop again!
In the South lies a lonesome, hungry Land;
He huddles his rags with a cripple's hand;
He mutters, prone on the barren sand,
What time his heart is breaking.
He lifts his bare head from the ground;
He listens through the gloom around:
The winds have brought him a strange sound
Of distant merrymaking.
Comes now the Peace so long delayed?
Is it the cheerful voice of Aid?
Begins the time his heart has prayed,
When men may reap and sow?
Ah, God!  Back to the cold earth's breast!
The sages chuckle o'er their jest;
Must they, to give a people rest,
Their dainty wit forego?
The tyrants sit in a stately hall;
They jibe at a wretched people's fall;
The tyrants forget how fresh is the pall
Over their dead and ours.
Look how the senators ape the clown,
And don the motley and hide the gown,
But yonder a fast-rising frown
On the people's forehead lowers.
Laughter is infectious.
It is a joyful sound that
Once it starts ringing,
Passes all around.
Laughter is infectious.
Some folks have no clue
As to what another’s laughter
Could do unto you.
Laughter is infectious.
You can get it on a whim,
But chances of it harming
Are very, very slim.
Laughter is life
- - - - - - - - - - -
The show must go on;
And so is our life
With laughter
It always shines
Youth comes to age
Without much strife
And it’s laughter
That makes life’s pilgrimage
Better and steadier
The flower fades
The music breaks
And the falsehood masquerades
But the laughter stays and invigorates
Life youthful and divine with grace
With laughter heart-aches disappear
And minds free from stress and fear
See a flower with laughter
Always happy and happier
A butterfly upon a flower
A cloud in the sky
While dissolving in showers
And a wave in sea splashing the shore
And the laughter with us
Dissolving in happiness more
And shall endeavour
To make life mightier and healthier
Oh soul, laugh and be merry
For that’s the golden way
Life can be lived sweeter and stronger...........
'Laughter is the best medicine, '
To everyone, this is well known,
But now-a-days, it's rarely seen
'Cause of more stress and strain.
In the good olden days,
There were royal ways,
For a king's laughter,
Got thro' a Court Jester.
To a Joker's club,
Or a Theatre pub,
One has to go today,
For buying one's joy.
Anger leads one to tension,
And laughter to relaxation,
But still why one chooses frustration,
Paying health a little attention?
It's said, 'An apple a day
Keeps the doctor away, '
Why a free-laugh, daily one can't try,
Rather going for an apple to buy?
This way one can be happy,
To lead a long life healthy,
And can grow further wealthy,
No more medicines, no more worry.
People may not be laughing
All the way to the banks,
But going by SMS AND JOKES,
Still some have humour intact.
What if many have closed shop
And filed for bankruptcy,
As they are on the verge
Of going broke and hungry.
All streets-Wall or Dalal-
Bears are roaming freely
Its there day out-
Bulls have retreated meekly.
Who are Lehman Brothers?
What’s all the fuss about?
Are they fighting over property
Is it a family feud?
Your Standard has become Poor,
you are rightly feling Moody and blue,
and baffled left wondering
how come no one had a clue.
Pink slips and pay cuts
Are handed everyday.
All you can do is to
Keep calm and pray.
Well fellows, it’s time
To deeply  ponder and reflect,
And ensure now that
Every penny is well spent.
Simple living and high thinking
Is gaining on the popularity charts.
Staying afloat in tough times
Is no less than a survival art.
How about giving a miss to the Malls
And looking for a past time,
Other than drooling at dressed windows
For no reason or rhyme.
Every difficulty is an opportunity,
(THE WISE SAY)     in disguise.
Put away those swanky cars,
Don’t feel so demoralised.
Walk to work if you still have one
Shed all that extra weight.
And look like million bucks,
As a bonus you will have a clear head.
The roads will be
Free of traffic snarls and cars,
Pollution will come down
Bust goes the business of oxygen bars.
Everything happens for a reason,
Oft I have heard it mentioned.
Till people realise what is unnecessary consumption,
Long live the  bears and the recession.
LAUGHTER - LAUGHTER
laughter - laughter here I come
to make my friend smile and calm
jump and jump to the left to the right
thru the day time and night
laughter - laughter here I am
to make true all the sweetest dreams
like my friend always has in sleep
thru the very beautiful night
that will never skip
laughter - laughter here we are
my friend and I are blab - blab - blab
and we are happy and careless
cause the better future are waiting for us
laughter - laughter, who are you?
WHAT! you don't recognize me?
I am sorry, I thought I know you
but just let it be
because a real friendship doesn't care who we are
(build a strong good friendship among us)
Laughter made me do it,
I swear
For now
the earth is bare
around me
I have sideward
turned
my head to see
What else can
my laughter bring
to those
around me.
The late afternoon sun slants down in the corner
where grandpa stands always to against his winter
simmering still, in his folded wrinkles, pure age's laughter
laughter, every time in a glimpse, we giggle together
till the eyes full of water
till the water stirring with more laughter
laughing in another corner, my dear grandma
secretly collects this again to her life drama
The desert never leaves you.
This graveyard rich with dust and
tears is like the imaginary friends
you cherished as a child, who are
waiting, still, for you to join them.
Like the aching eyes of famished
children, like saints breathing fire,
there is a hard purity to the desert.
Patience sculpted the desert.
'Leave it all for the lazy future, ' whisper
the roadrunners and the tumbleweed.
The desert is full of
shape-shifting eings.
You never know what
disguise they will take
next.
I love to get a dance right.
When a dance does go wrong
makes me laugh uncontrollably.
I hold my sides -
I am convulsed with laughter,
I am literally paralyzed,
I see people befuddled,
looking utterly lost.
they are wandering around aimlessly,
or rooted to the spot
like a deer caught in headlights.
No joke makes me laugh uncontrollably.
Yes, I may guffaw, I may laugh -
but uncontrollable laughter,
deep purging,
healing laughter,
happens  very-very seldom in my life.
But it happened in my last  dance.
I was convulsed with laughter -
convulsed is the only correct word.
How often, in life, are you convulsed in laughter? -
and of course, being convulsed,
I was clogging up the middle,
causing further confusion.
It was terrible
The cutting edge of its teeth
was vocal wih furies of desires
Someone was laughing
Against the delicasies of
His/ her own heart
Laughter is a pleasant sound, it spreads joy all around
Whether you're young or old, laughter can be like
Magic to our souls, whenever we're feeling sad
Laughter can sustain us so that things don't seem
Quite so bad, if we give into laughter, it can be like
A cure for something that seems impossible to endure
So any time your spirits need a lift fill yourself
With laughter and you will find, a much happier
Person with a peaceful frame of mind
Laughter  is  a  unique  quality  endowed  to  mankind;
It  is  completely  denied  to  the  animal  mind.
When  humour  is  dwelt  upon  and  reared,
There   emanates  laughter  and  is  shared.
Roaring   laughter  is  contagious,
And  humour  is  surely  infectious.
Laughter   escalates  hilarity  and  happiness,
And  humour  diminishes  weariness.
One  can  laugh  at  a  joke,  ridiculous,
And  can  scoff  at  another  one,  meticulous.
One  needs  to be  like  a  child,  so  jolly,
Egoless  and  innocent  to laugh  so  merrily.
Laughter  requires  a  bit  of  intelligence,
As  well  as  presence  of  mind  and  good  sense.
Benefits  of  laughter  are  numerous,
It  bestows  a  wealth  of  health  on  us.
Laughter  boosts  the  immunity  system,
And  lowers  the  stress  hormone  item.
With  laughter  the  whole  body  is  relaxed,
And  gnawing  pain  for  a  time  is  axed.
Laughter  prevents  even  the  heart  disease,
And  a  sorrowful  mood  is  made  to  ease.
With  a  chuckle  feel-good  endorphins  are  released,
And  with  a  peal  of  laughter  one  is  pleased.
Laughter  adds  joy  and  zest  to  life,
And  eases  anxiety,  fear  and  strife.
Laughter  helps  conflicts  to  diffuse,
And  mirth  in  one   it  does  suffuse.
Laughter  is  a  resource  for  problem  surmounting,
And  has  the  power  for  good  relationship  enhancing.
Humour  lightens  one's  burdens;
Inspires  hope  and  the  outlook  broadens.
So  let  us  enjoy  humour  and  guffaw  heartily,
And  let  us  blend  laughter  into  our  lives  verily.
You, whom these eyes, no longer mine,
Shall see in the mirror's flash and shine,
Meagre of face and pale of cheek,
Pale mouth, and lines that sadness speak:
All the grey shipwreck of this me
Who look upon you and laugh for glee,
Mocking at you, poor feeble thing,
You word that's uttered, you tune that's played,
You body shrunken, you soul decayed,
You heart that whispers but cannot sing:
You, when you walk abroad in sun,
Blinking at last for the too much light,
Scorning the young life that can run,
Scorning the fierce life that can fight,
And drooling wisdom day by day,
Presuming, you, to point the way:
Here are my eyes upon you, now,
Colder than stars to sear your brow,
Here is my hand upon your hand,
A stronger grip than yours can stand,
Here are my words, so cruelly true,-
If you be false, they are stones for you ...
And because you are feeble, a crawling thing,
Walking by walls to hold and cling,
With terror of darkness on your breath,
And terror lest you be dead, with death:
Catching perhaps at straws of faith,
Drunk with religion in hope to drown
These maddening truths that will not down,
Clutching philosophy's vapid wraith:
Here is my perfect scorn for you,
The scorn from youth to old age due,
Merciless laughter, sharp as knife,
The egotistical laugh of life.
I hold my sides!- let truth be said,
'Twere better if things like you were dead.
For I have strength to face this earth,
I am risen warm and strong from birth,
I am song, I am love, I am bitter hate,
The laughter of speed that will not wait.
Nature is hard, but hard am I,
The hard will live, the soft must die:
And I who am nature know this truth,-
The soul of nature's soul is youth.
If you deny me, turn to shame,
Or pity me,- forego my name;
For youth is right, and age is wrong-
You but a prayer, while I am song!
The weak hates strong: you will hate me,
And war upon me, with cunning wiles,-
Pity me, with indulgent smiles,
And shrug your shoulders paternally.
'Mad youth!' you'll murmur- 'how mad it is!
He must indulge his ecstasies!
Youth is a madness, it will pass,
The fever of blood, the mad blind eyes-
His stars will burn him, he'll grow wise,
The years bring calm to lad and lass.
And what we thought so fine in youth
Was at the most but half of truth,-
For truth is not of youth or age,
But some of life's whole pilgrimage,-
The young men's visions, the old men's dreams,
The passion of days, the thought of years;
Age's cautions, and youth's extremes;
Laughter is life no more than tears.
Youth sings, 'the height of life is youth,
All after that is retrograde,
The music falters, the flowers fade,
And falsehood masquerades as truth.'
Youth sings, 'Age hath no right to speak,
Nature abhors him, he is weak,
But youth is right, for youth is strong,
Youth is the young earth's bridal-song!'
I was a young man once, myself,
Youth, I can sympathize with you;
I speak impartially from my shelf-
Truth lies half way between the two.
Youth scorns old age,- well, youth is right,
That is youth's nature; age scorns youth,
Age too is just; each sees the light
As nature grants, and each sees truth...
For truth is not of youth or age,
But sum of life's whole pilgrimage,
A wonder of many wonders wrought,
Blended of passion and of thought;
And so, young man, we'll compromise-
Each of us, in our way, is wise!'
Thus you will speak, O cunning one,
Warming your cold hands in the sun;
Squinting your eyes in too bright light,
Shielding your face's sickly white.
However weak, life fends for self,-
Thus you, old ghost! you shuffling trimmer!
You speak impartially from your shelf?-
You clutch at rays, for the light grows dimmer.
This much I'll not begrudge you, then-
Go, justify yourself to men,
With powers of darkness come to terms
Lest you turn sick with dread of worms.
But, for the hard work of my brain,
Hands off! your yellow hands would stain.
Our best work, youth's! one finger mars;
If you must loathe it, or disclaim,
I beg you, then, forego my name,-
Else, die, mid laughter from the stars!
And yet, what's life? Come, here's my hand.
For at the last, I see it well,
Age were not age unless it fell,
And crawls- because it cannot stand.
I pity you,- I laugh at you,-
Yet to your years I see you true,
Truer than if, with rigid thought,
Your age to ghost of youth you wrought.
Poor soul! go, make your peace with death,
And warm your heart with a shibboleth!
Yes, you will hate, despise my work,-
How else?- But here's my laughing dirk,
Here I have snared you, all complete,
Your pitiful pale hands, struggling feet;
If you breathe poison on my art
Here is my poniard, here your heart!...
Because you are aged, senile, lamed,
For this, man, you shall not be blamed,
Though youth must smirk old age to see,
And merriment bubbles up in me;
But if with hand that smears and mars
You touch our best work, yours and mine,-
Then comes my laughter from earth and stars,
Youthful and cruel, wild, divine!
If a person can laugh at himself
for any foolishness, they have done.
That person is a happy person
who can always laugh with the world.
The laughter can be infectious
and then more will laugh along with them.
The more the smiles are raised
happier our lives will become
and safer our world will be.
Laughter sort o' settles breakfast better than digestive pills;
Found it, somehow in my travels, cure for every sort of ills;
When the hired help have riled me with their slipshod, careless ways,
An' I'm bilin' mad an' cussin' an' my temper's all ablaze,
If the calf gets me to laughin' while they're teachin' him to feed
Pretty soon I'm feelin' better, 'cause I've found the cure I need.
Like to start the day with laughter; when I've had a peaceful night,
An' can greet the sun all smilin', that day's goin' to be all right.
But there's nothing goes to suit me, when my system's full of bile;
Even horses quit their pullin' when the driver doesn't smile,
But they'll buckle to the traces when they hear a glad giddap,
Just as though they like to labor for a cheerful kind o' chap.
Laughter keeps me strong an' healthy. You can bet I'm all run down,
Fit for doctor folks an' nurses when I cannot shake my frown.
Found in farmin' laughter's useful, good for sheep an' cows an' goats;
When I've laughed my way through summer, reap the biggest crop of oats.
Laughter's good for any business, leastwise so it seems to me
Never knew a smilin' feller but was busy as could be.
Sometimes sit an' think about it, ponderin' on the ways of life,
Wonderin' why mortals gladly face the toil an care an' strife,
Then I come to this conclusion—take it now for what it's worth
It's the joy of laughter keeps us plodding on this stretch of earth.
Men the fun o' life are seeking—that's the reason for the calf
Spillin' mash upon his keeper—men are hungry for a laugh.
Laughter the best of human tendencies and outlet of emotions
One cannot avoid laughter throughout his life
The individual who is incapable to laugh in such feelings
That makes the mind in humor and happiest and best of moods
May be somewhat wrong in his mindset so says the learnt ones
Laughter a perfect  mechanism and outlet to vanish tension
Stresses and strains of human feelings we have to avoid
So laugh so much when you feel it good and in such mind
No one is bothered to question your freedom of laughter
But always keep the laughing with pure awareness
Without making negative feelings to the nearer ones
The most successful men of world leaders and intellectuals
Were capable to laugh in good spirit and making other happy
The secrecy behind their success being the laughter
Follow their ways of tendencies of expressions of laughter
The real success will be to you no doubt remember.
Then the Lord smiles
Flowers florescence
Tickled heart shines
In twinkling eyes
Befriending laughing tears..
Laughter is heavenly
Savvy happy, for it links
Body, mind, soul so intense
Beatitude for it enchains
Being to being contagious
Harmony for it thereon begets
Laughter is heavenly..
Hell with laughing devils
Their laughter of cacophonic peals
Laughs to laugh at tears
Not so, not so with heavenwards
Imbibed of seventh heaven redolence
Laughter is heavenly
WORRY stalked along the road,
Trouble sneaking after;
Then Black Care, and Grief, and Goad
Enemies to Laughter.
But old Laughter with a shout
Rose up and attacked 'em;
Put the sorry pack to rout,
Walloped *em and whacked 'em.
Laughter frivols day and night ;
Sometimes he's a bubble,
But he hath a deal of might
In a bout with Trouble!
Born out of joy
Jovial moments are captured
By the wavering laughter
Bursting out of a happy heart
With hands full of joy
A child of love
Laughter
If you need to heal what ales ya
go and laugh a hour or so.
Then all your aches and troubles will flee
you'll be much better off you know.
Take some time to make a funny face
that's all ya need to do.
Then someone might be watching
and they'll make one back at you!
Find a funny movie
go and share it with a friend
Then all your problems won't seem so large
and maybe they will even end?
See the brighter side of things
it's better then the dark.
Let one fly in a grocery store
go ahead let it rip, and give the world a fart!
Laugh you fool laugh and run
for the store managers after you.
See I made you laugh didn't I
that was all I was trying to do!
Laughter
Mole-like token let it be bestowed on you
Laughter
Bell-like liquid an outpour light and blue
Laughter
The joyful cords in music born blessed throats
Laughter
The happy rowing in plenitude golden boats
Laughter
Running wild shaking bellies to dance
Laughter
Sweet disease swell infective trance
Laughter
The tongue tip peeping to mock the hands of time
Laughter
The gift of he’s she’s of you’re we’re or I’m
Laughter
The blissful eyes when joyful tears go down
Laughter
The king or queen carrying the highest crown
©Miroslava Odalovic
I buried your heart
one fine spring day
and planted
a sighing rose
above it.
Perhaps some
would water it
with tears and fragments
of memories and sorrow,
but not I.
Pain is but trickery
and loss but a product.
What tears have I
for passing time?
Fearlessness is my virtue
and laughter my answer.
I am twilight
and my eyes are twinkling.
I buried your heart
one fine spring day
and planted
a sighing rose
above it.
My heart turns to stone;
it serves as a marker for you.
Fear not,
for it is time.
I Laugh at Life: its antics make for me a giddy games,
Where only foolish fellows take themselves with solemn aim.
I laugh at pomp and vanity, at riches, rank and pride;
At social inanity, at swager, swank and side.
At poets, pastry-cooks and kings, at folk sublime and small,
Who fuss about a thousand things that matter not at all;
At those who dream of name and fame, at those who scheme for pelf. . . .
But best of all the laughing game - is laughing at myself.
Some poet chap had labelled man the noblest work of God:
I see myself a charlatan, a humbug and a fraud.
Yea, 'spite of show and shallow wit, an sentimental drool,
I know myself a hypocrite, a coward and a fool.
And though I kick myself with glee profoundly on the pants,
I'm little worse, it seems to me, than other human ants.
For if you probe your private mind, impervious to shame,
Oh, Gentle Reader, you may find you're much about the same.
Then let us mock with ancient mirth this comic, cosmic plan;
The stars are laughing at the earth; God's greatest joke is man.
For laughter is a buckler bright, and scorn a shining spear;
So let us laugh with all our might at folly, fraud and fear.
Yet on our sorry selves be spent our most sardonic glee.
Oh don't pay life a compliment to take is seriously.
For he who can himself despise, be surgeon to the bone,
May win to worth in others' eyes, to wisdom in his own.
What would I do without laughter?
A sad place indeed, it would be.
The funnies..the sillies..whatever it takes
for the sound of laughter.
Never laughing at someone else..
Only sharing together the humor of the moment..
Makes a lighter load to carry
Of the burdens we face..
If there is also a little laughter.
(Laughter)
Can you hear
your baby in the next room?
Can you hear death?
Laughter makes merry—
It’s good for your health.
And pausing to laugh
Brings “physical' wealth.
It releases endorphins
(Stored in the brain) ,
And builds up cells
To combat the pain.
So when life bites
And problems sting,
Open up your heart
And let laughter ring.
© 2009
the sound of a smile in a voice
resonated ripples in my mind
smiles laughing in depths of soul
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Let get laughter way out of  yourself
Make the happy sound awake
Laughter magic and enchanting
Don't sustain it in your soul
Let yourself go into joy
May it help forever
People from wherever
Getting circled together
Laughter can be a kind of help
A worthy enemy to distress
Rise this laughter so dear
To be heard by human ears
Make it go on around the world
Little chuckles happy giggles
So many ways of laughing
Don't fear the others comment
Let laughter way out of yourself
Be assured laughter is magic
Open your heart to this very
Very special kind of sound
Let get laughter way out of yourself
Make the happy sound awake
(Switzerland)
(Sitzerland)
Some time it is like Everest,
Shining with shroud,
Some time it is darker than pith-blend,
Can you define, what is this life?
He shouted from far-
Distance traveled by a soul with body,
'Tween womb to tomb.....
He laughed and laughed-
Lost amid his laughter
the shell of a snail
long since departed....
ghosts whisper, cannot touch!
layers of anger
devouring from within,
till nothing is left but dust.
flesh cries out for flesh,
old or young, doesnt matter.
water seeks itself, stone is stone.
a lover, a small fire
too far away to name....
and God's face is lost
in the laughter!
How glorious new beginnings are
Of love and life and laughter
You made your wish, you caught a star
It's happy ever after
The love that's yours is immense
It's only worthless things your losing
No more sitting on the fence
There's no better path for choosing
The light you have beside of you
It guides you from uncertainty
You'll no longer be asking who
You'll be sharing with eternity
When the darkness falls from up above
You'll be shining like a star so bright
Because you've found your own true love
You'll shine on through the night
Three things that make my life complete
Are love, laughter, and you,  my sweet
The laughter has lasted since day one
Loving you darling, has been so much fun
Whether it's giggles at the kitchen table
Or all out laughter wherever we're able
Each and every laugh, a symbol of our love
You're my everything, all I ever drempt  of
Our love, now that's a bit more serious
Shining through when our laughter is delirious
Starting the day with love's tenderness
Saying goodnight with a sweet caress
Love, laughter, and of course you.
You bring into my life the other two
From the day we met, and for every single day
Love and laughter in our lives will stay
Though with gods the world is cumbered,
Gods unnamed, and gods unnumbered,
Never god was known to be
Who had not his devotee.
So I dedicate to mine,
Here in verse, my temple-shrine.
‘Tis not Ares, - mighty Mars,
Who can give success in wars.
‘Tis not Morpheus, who doth keep
Guard above us while we sleep,
‘Tis not Venus, she whose duty
‘Tis to give us love and beauty;
Hail to these, and others, after
Momus, gleesome god of laughter.
Quirinus would guard my health,
Plutus would insure me wealth;
Mercury looks after trade,
Hera smiles on youth and maid.
All are kind, I own their worth,
After Momus, god of mirth.
Though Apollo, out of spite,
Hides away his face of light,
Though Minerva looks askance,
Deigning me no smiling glance,
Kings and queens may envy me
While I claim the god of glee.
Wisdom wearies, Love had wings –
Wealth makes burdens, Pleasure stings,
Glory proves a thorny crown –
So all gifts the gods throw down
Bring their pains and troubles after;
All save Momus, god of laughter.
He alone gives constant joy.
Hail to Momus, happy boy.
Rod
a single point of penetration
this virgin skull
now wrapped around it's pain
mouth to blind wont speak
is nurse who keeps
this skull it's staples free
glutinously rebandaged
never sauteed is
she
reaching my flap
rewinding into her hand
seizing grey my mass
eyes shine
fevered lusting
brains her personal circus
greed such jello sounds
sliding fro and to
from the back
blind feeling nothing
hearing licks
such glue
I endure unnatural tremors
of her......
those sucking sounds I hear unfelt....
Old Mister Laughter
Comes a-grinnin' down the way,
Singin': 'Never mind your troubles,
For they'll surely pass away.'
Singin': 'Now the sun is shinin'
An' there's roses everywhere;
To-morrow will be soon enough
To fret about your care.'
Old Mister Laughter
Comes a-grinnin' at my door,
Singin': 'Don't go after money
When you've got enough and more.'
Singin':  'Laugh with me this mornin'
An' be happy while you may.
What's the use of riches
If they never let you play?'
Old Mister Laughter
Comes a-grinnin' all the time,
Singin' happy songs o' gladness
In a good old-fashioned rhyme.
Singin': 'Keep the smiles a-goin',
Till they write your epitaph,
And don't let fame or fortune
Ever steal away your laugh.'
You were a 5th
season
where only love
shone
& we intertwined
like a Celtic knot
making love
to Vivaldi's Four Seasons.
Outside
an enraged storm
demanded to be
let in
but was met by
only our laughter.
Laughter is the best medicine for your blues
All sadness and worries you can say adieu
Whether you’re rich or poor it will work for you
From morning to evening it will see you thru
The ikon of that little face
always present asleep  or  awake.
The one hand stretched out to grasp,
the other beating, kicking waters back.
How could the poor weaked creatures
keep themselves on  the foam up!
Had she the strength to clasp him to her!
Slap on the mouth the wave,
saltiness swallowed for breath
gives her a turn.  Flinches,
in a whirlwind immersed...
Hh! she does not remember any more
what else  there and after happened at all.
Scene bitter in her memory etched,
turbulent sea,  to fight waters against,
the agony on  the gaze,
the suppliance in his crying voice.
They did not manage to save him too.
Drowned, they  said,
found him at the bottom, ...dead.
Oh! She still hears the bullets and bombs
falling rain in the neighborhood.
Her ear heard on the flight's  road
that many known and friends went lost,
these and these  she  as well  knew
schoolmates too and not a few.
Shudders the  mind, trembles the heart,
alone the  bitter tears often roll down.
She feels a knot clogging the  throat.
Sob strange comes often out as breath.
In  the foamed waves does not forget
that cursed moment,
does not,
and twists the poor button
once to the right once to the left.....
She hates her laughter,
she cuts it in the middle of the process,
she hides it, ashamed, afraid
obstinately closes  lips,
lest in  the world be heard,
a tear yes, preferred to be shared, yes!
He does not know, does not believe,
imagine can not,
whether her lips will ever again  laugh,
whether  reopen free  wings in the sky up.
How she can not bear  anyone
thinking of her a Lucky one,
when she would have  free  lips to laugh,
if only in her place  were that,
that child and all the other lost ones!
.......................
Smiling faces beam of summer warmth
Greeting of jokes and cordial words
Handshakes from outstretched hands
Kisses from pursed lips of pretty faces
Are the greeting from our friends
And melt any coolness of the heart
Loneliness of previous years
Fade like forgotten memories
Friendship is a beautiful thing
Something that can never be replaced
No sorrow, no sadness to furrow the brow
Only smiles and laughter surround us now
(8 May 2003)
Cheerful sound with big sound is called laugh
You energy is consumed almost half
Worries and tension disappear altogether
It has nothing to do with any whether
It is good medicine for incurable diseases
Person suffers from pain and continues to decease
Good laugh provides him easy means to live
All worries and tension remain to be relieved
Good laugh always pleases others
It doesn’t affect others or bother
It is considered as God’s gift
It helps to remove even old rift
Have you ever witnessed child’s smile?
You continue to enjoy for a while
Friendship may grow with smiling gesture
It may end up with bright future
You must try to live with laugh and learn
You may be miles away from concern
Laugh it out when you are in crisis
Stretch it out more and lay an emphasis
You are not to be driven out by any count
Let there be any difficulties or pressure mount
You may continue to live at ease
Smile may help worries to decrease
You may roar high in laughter
Your heart beats may run even faster
All vanes and brain may have fresh supply
Body need may meet the level with good reply
It is equally important for good health
Nothing can compensate even more wealth
So laugh even when it is not needed
Medical advice may always be heeded
Worry and tension burn body from within
Chances for recovery are then very thin
One must live by what he is supposed
Health must prevail and rest all is disposed
Good smile may pave the way for adjustment
Life may become easy with smiling comments
Any excuses offered without remorse may not have effect
Sorry with broad smile may have desirable affect
You can find good partner if good smile is offered
Smile may reliever you from burden even if you have suffered
You can win away foe with mild gesture
It may then decide good and durable future
Love to live with smile and not with tension
Never open up with caution and mention
It is momentary thing and may pass off
Be little lenient with views and very soft
You may live little longer than expected
You may enhance the position and remain respected
It is advisable to remain always in joyous mood
You may need nothing not even rich food
Love to live with smile and advent
Not to feel bad and offer any comment
Leave behind trail of long laughter
You may feel happy and even lighter
If we can laugh, our heart-aches disappear!
Our minds become freed off tensions and stress;
If we make others laugh, they lose their fear,
And become dear, starting to us caress.
Laughter is good for both the young and old;
Laughter can turn a foe into a friend;
Laughter can help forget our woes, be bold;
Laughter can bring to grief, an early end.
Laughter is life’s most precious medicine;
Laughter is soothing balm for all our ills;
Laughter is euphoric much more than wine,
Causing no harm to one/ increasing bills.
Then laugh and be merry, whenever you can,
For, that’s the way to live life better, man.
Not with libations, but with shouts and laughter
We drenched the altars of Love's sacred grove,
Shaking to earth green fruits, impatient after
The launching of the colored moths of Love.
Love's proper myrtle and his mother's zone
We bound about our irreligious brows,
And fettered him with garlands of our own,
And spread a banquet in his frugal house.
Not yet the god has spoken; but I fear
Though we should break our bodies in his flame,
And pour our blood upon his altar, here
Henceforward is a grove without a name,
A pasture to the shaggy goats of Pan,
Whence flee forever a woman and a man.
My soul
disguised as a shadow
drifted back
into my past
managed unseen
to cross the border
of Life
(& Death)
enter again
that room
where the memory
begins
(when the memory wasn’t even a memory)
but the real thing
my soul steals a crumb
of her laughter
nothing that could be
missed
the merest sliver.
I (then)
shiver
seeing my soul
stealing my sister’s
laughter
but not recognising it
seeing only
a shadow of a shadow.
Throwing off its shadowy
clothes
my soul
returns
smelling remotely of
a Past
the stale smell
of Death.
“Did you get it...did you get it! ”
I demand.
“Yes...yes...but don’t
ask me again! ”
“If God ever finds out...”
But I don’t hear
I am beyond
my soul’s
reproach
following the steps
of my tears
leading me to
the treasure
of her
laughter.
*******
Long for you to turn
& then...smile at me again.
But – the photo won’t
listen to me...'Listen to me! '
Deaf to everything but – Death.
********
Your grave buried now
beneath such snow & prayers.
Both angel & I
gazing at nothing...sky...
you so alive...in my head.
*******
So cold...my shadow
frozen to the ground...fract...ures
as I move away
I leave it behind and grow
another to take with me.
*******
TEARS AND LAUGHTER
Our life gets ensconced between our
laughter and tears,
With sunshine and rain, between our
joys and fears!
This life is a filigree of light and shadow
play,
While with our laughter we try  to drive
our fears away!
All our exalted emotions, bring tears to our
eyes,
But tears can flow freely, while laughter
needs tears to survive!
Laugh and the world laughs with you,
But when you weep, you weep alone!
The world has no time for your sorrow, -
it remains as your  very own!
Life’s music is composed with our happiness
and pain,
Tears provide the somber background notes,
And laughter the lilting cadence of summer’s rain!
But in this single life, if we can wipe our brother's
tears,
Happiness will follow, to drive away our tears!
-	Raj Nandy
-	New Delhi
-	27 Nov 08
Knew'st thou one month would take thy life away,
Thou'dst weep; but laugh, should it not last a day.
I created you,
Gave you various forms,
With unique finger prints,
Exclusive features,
Variety of relationships,
Different thought processes,
Of an infinite GB memory,
With immense potentials,
Of procreating nature,
With cloning and  nanotechnologies;
But you yourselves,
My dear ignorant children…
Have still assigned me
Different names
With different forms,
And quarrel amongst you,
Considering me as
DIFFERENT!
While I stay here
As a perplexed parent,
Watching…
Your childish fights,
Patiently teaching you
The ways of this world,
Since eras…….! ! !
The gift of laughter is a rare gift it is such a wonderful thing
And laughter can create more laughter to it there is such a beautiful ring
The people who laugh seem to make friends quite easily and in numbers their friends seem to grow
But the people who take life too seriously are the people few wish to know.
The woman next door is a laugher she has with her a winning way
She is one who makes friends quite easily she always smiles and says good day
A person like her is worth knowing she spreads around her gift of cheer
For to stimulate laughter in her heart she doesn't need spirits or beer.
Compared to her the bloke three doors down is so different a smile never does cross his face
He is always so serious looking perhaps laughter he cannot embrace
A good laugh would be so good for him since none look more serious than he
If everyone took life so serious how boring a thing life would be.
The gift of laughter is a great gift and with it there's none to compare
And the people with it are invaluable since they spread it around everywhere
Life seems far too short to be grumpy since we will be forever dead
And feel grateful for people who can laugh their happiness they seem to spread.
The other day I had had, The smell of spellbound emitted from her love, That made me sorrowful and as a dead man later on, But the blooming flowers were laughing and told at last- 'You  are in a state of being intoxicated...try to get out of obsession.'
My question was to them-
Do you know that scientist Einstein were fall in love too?
They again laugh and laugh, Meaningless laughter.
I was inflamed and so shouted- 'stop your laughter, You are  emitting illusions too, I know.
The children are playing football in the park off of the street
The joy in their laughter it does sound so sweet
'Tis true youth is such a marvellous thing
Like the flowers of the fields that bloom lovely in Spring.
The joy of their laughter bring back memories to me
Of happy boyhood days of any cares free
In the Town park on Summer evenings we kicked the football
Such wonderful memories are good to recall
The years went so quickly and time did not wait
And I've grown grayer and slower and I'm putting on weight
The future belongs to the youth of today
Though they too will grow to learn that time quickly ticks away.
Some of those I went to school with now with the dead lay
And some are grand parents and their grand children play
The games they themselves played they run up and down
In pursuit of the football in the park by the Town.
As I walk to the bottle shop for to buy beer
The laughter of the children playing football I hear
Their best days approaching and mine in the past
But time keeps on ticking and nothing does last.
The laughter of women sets fire
to the Halls of Injustice
and the false evidence burns
to a beautiful white lightness
It rattles the Chambers of Congress
and forces the windows wide open
so the fatuous speeches can fly out
The laughter of women wipes the mist
from the spectacles of the old;
it infects them with a happy flu
and they laugh as if they were young again
Prisoners  held in underground cells
imagine that they see daylight
when they remember the laughter of women
It runs across water that divides,
and reconciles two unfriendly shores
like flares that signal the news to each other
What a language it is, the laughter of women,
high-flying and subversive.
Long before law and scripture
we heard the laughter, we understood freedom.
The laughter in your heart
Would melt a melting pot
Would rise a sunken ship
Save a lady in distress
Lead the lost to find their way
Cause pain to go away
Your laughter
Is my laughter
Your heart, my heart
Two risen ships
Of ladies of lost
From laughter of pain
Let us unite these good things
THE LAUGHTER THERAPY
(I)
Every morning the ritual is the same, -
I say my prayers and take His name;
As I settle down to read the papers, –
About our politician’s famous ‘blame game’!
It is then I always hear, loud peals of laughter
from our adjacent park,
A man dedicated to laughter therapy,
With his loud guffaw and reverberating bark!
Trying to resolve this laughing mystery, -
I read several articles about Laughter Therapy!
(II)
Amongst all created things and living beings,
Man alone suffers deeply in his body, mind,
and soul;
With peals of laughter he must suppress his tears,
To balance this life and control!
Yet during those rare and supreme happy moments
of  life, -
Tears are seen to well-up in our eyes!
Laughter gets mingled with our tears, -
I wonder why? !
Perhaps laughter and tears are two sides,
Of the same coin of our worldly life!
While our lacrymal glands perform this feat, -
As laughter and tears join hands  to make this
life complete!
(III)
While hearty, non-ridiculing and connecting
laughter does provide,
Physiological, psychological and spiritual
benefits - on hindsight!
Laughter brings a twinkle in our eyes, destroying
our conservative reputation;
Improving our cardiovascular flexibility, increasing
our spiritual quotient!
Laughter like internal jogging, gives us an internal
massaging;
Performed both silently and rapidly beyond imagining!
Revitalizing those unexplored internal crannies –
all automatic!
Far better than all our know antibiotics!
Laughter a tranquilizer without side effects,
Releases our pent-up tension relaxing us instead!
(IV)
An optimist always laughs to forget, while a pessimist
forgets to laugh,
My man in the park is perhaps an optimist,
Who has embraced this  therapy as an art!
Or perhaps that man laughs daily at the frailties of a
meaningless life,
In this life of absurdities as he adapts himself to
survive!
This laughter therapy is a tranquilizer both healthy
and free,
Perhaps that man in the park is laughing at both you
and me!
Our life becomes a tragedy for those who only feel!
But a comedy of laughter, if you pause a while to think!
So let us try to make others laugh while we try to
control our tears,
Laughing is a healing process and drives away our
fears!
Let us make a New Year’s resolution, making laughter
our altruistic mission;
Coupled with a loving and caring heart all true, -
Let this  laughter as a therapy - benefit both me and
you!
-Raj Nandy
New Delhi
18 Dec 08
(The Physiologists say that when we cry,34 body muscles
are activated, but when we laugh only 17 muscles get activated!
Making laughter doubly beneficial!)
Joe Lightheart
was his name,
being jolly
his claim to fame-
He'd laugh at this
he'd laugh at that,
he'd laugh from his boots
up to his hat-
From the day of his birth
he'd always laugh and smile,
to hear or tell a joke
he'd gladly walk a mile-
No news was too bad
no opinion too sour,
his joy was unbreakable
hour upon hour-
That is until the fateful day when he laughed
at his wife in her new dress,
now poor Joe cannot even offer up a smile...
his broken teeth are such a mess-
You will soon hear guy,
the refrain of your laughter.
How can you buy air?
The sound of laughter is a thing of beauty for laughter spreads the very gift of joy
That people they are drawn to happy people is not that hard for to understand why
Since everybody wishes to be happy and laughter it spreads happiness around
And only the heartless could not like the sound of laughter for laughter is a very happy sound,
Than laughter there is no more happy feeling laugh and the World laughs with you seems so true
But if you feel sad and for yourself feeling sorry the saddest person in the World is you
Even your friends would rather not be with you if they see you as one who worship gloom
The happy people attract people to them and in their presence happiness does bloom,
The sound of laughter sends out laughter ripples it is a sound one always loves to hear
And laughter it gives rise to smiling faces and never fails to fill the cup of cheer
The sad one who feels comfort in self pity is the one others do not wish to know
But if you are one who laughs away your worries your friends in numbers seem to grow and grow
And who could not but love the sound of laughter to it there always is a joyful ring
It seems to send happiness out in ripples it is a joyful and infectious thing.
Just to hear your laughter,
I would throw myself off the highest cliff
on the western coast
And as the waves carried my broken body away
I would turn my head back in your direction
Because after everything we have been through,
The pain
The tears
The sacrifices
The goodbyes
I need to know that you will always be laughing
Right before the ocean pulls me below the surface for good
The wind catches the faint sound of your voice
You are laughing so hard
I can practically picture the tears of joy
streaming down your face.
Darkness follows
and there is nothing left but a broken body filled with memories
Finally, amidst the saltwater and seaweed
You are free,
and so am I.
She laughs
like water
pours herself
into my embrace
takes whatever shape
(cuddle hug Indian erotic
statue Kamasutra)
within these
arms
I kiss her
with a love
that cannot
harm her
me the container
of who I am
holding her love
like water's laughter.
We need some laughter in our lives since laughter makes us happy
I know this bloke he never smiles like baby with wet nappy
He always seems so close to tears for him I do feel pity
Financially well to do and spiritually poor many like him in this City
With a lovely school going daughter and a beautiful wife he ought to feel lighthearted
But happinness out of his life 'twould seem has long departed
A millionaire many times over his business it is thriving
But about him he has the sad look of one barely surviving
He needs some laughter in his life since by laughter he's forsaken
Without laughter happiness sleeps on and never does awaken
Materially wealthy but spiritually poor he always looks sad and lonely
But such is life as some do say and he is not the only
Wealthy person for to feel this way for him I feel some pity
For he is a poor man in some ways one of many in this City.
When the laughter stops
~
And what when the laughter stops
Do we care to ask
Those clowns and entertainers
Once the curtain has fallen
Is there still joy, rhapsody
Or the emptiness of a still room
Do they cry or call for help
What happens when the laughter stops
It's not a question I hear often
But is a relevant as the time of day
Were the world indeed a stage
And we each designated a role to play
Those jesters how we love them so
In their masks and acts
What happens when the laughter stops
Still we do not ask
w. m. d. ”s  does not mean weapons of mass destruction
But! Women! Men s destruction.
They attract you with their looks and charms
And bodies that will put you in “ self destruct”.
But to them that’s not enough.
They want to control your mind from
Now till the end of time.
Like a hamster in a play pen
With a beginning but no end.
You climb on that “spinning wheel of life”
And run like hell
While they watch and laugh
And ring that bell.
They are truly men s destruction!
And I think that’s the way it will always be.
(Ha-ha  enjoy it women of the world)
Take bread away from me, if you wish,
take air away, but
do not take from me your laughter.
Do not take away the rose,
the lance flower that you pluck,
the water that suddenly
bursts forth in joy,
the sudden wave
of silver born in you.
My struggle is harsh and I come back
with eyes tired
at times from having seen
the unchanging earth,
but when your laughter enters
it rises to the sky seeking me
and it opens for me all
the doors of life.
My love, in the darkest
hour your laughter
opens, and if suddenly
you see my blood staining
the stones of the street,
laugh, because your laughter
will be for my hands
like a fresh sword.
Next to the sea in the autumn,
your laughter must raise
its foamy cascade,
and in the spring, love,
I want your laughter like
the flower I was waiting for,
the blue flower, the rose
of my echoing country.
Laugh at the night,
at the day, at the moon,
laugh at the twisted
streets of the island,
laugh at this clumsy
boy who loves you,
but when I open
my eyes and close them,
when my steps go,
when my steps return,
deny me bread, air,
light, spring,
but never your laughter
for I would die.
Your laughter blew into my life
With swift surprise.
It spun happily around me,
Whirling with dizzy speed.
Its breeze licked and kissed
At my ears.
Entering quickly,
It found places in my mind,
My heart, my soul.
It raced in,
Filling me with a whirlwind
Of joyous anticipation.
Your Laughter
Original Poem by Pablo Neruda
Hindi translation by Rajnish Manga
हँसी तुम्हारी
मूल कविता: पेब्लो नेरुदा
हिंदी अनुवाद: रजनीश मंगा
यदि चाहो तुम, मुझसे मेरा दानापानी ले लो
ले लो मुझसे पवन झकोरे
किंतु न ले लेना हरगिज़ मुझसे अपनी हँसी सलोनी.
यह गुलाब न मुझसे छीनो,
कंदराओं में उगने वाला नीला फूल जो तोड़ा तुमने,
इस कोशिश में कुछ जल के छींटे
अकस्मात् हर्षोन्माद में मुझे भिगो कर चले गये हैं,
तभी अचानक तुम्हारे तन से
लहर उठी थी रजत कणों की..
संघर्षों से व्यथित हुआ लौट आया हूँ
बोझिल नयन लिये अपने मैं
यूँ ही इक टक तकते रहने से
धरती की बदलावहीनता,
किंतु जब जब हँसीं तुम्हारी मंडराती है
नभ की ओर मुझे ढूँढने को जाती है
और खुल जाते हैं मेरे वास्ते
जीवन के अनगिनत रास्ते.
प्रिये सुनो, अंधकार हो सघन जिस घड़ी
हँसी तुम्हारी
खिल उठती है, और यदि अचानक
तुम देखो जो मेरे रक्त से
सनी हुई बजरी सड़क पर,
हँसो, क्योंकि यह हँसी तुम्हारी
मेरे हाथों में दिखेगी ऐसे
नई खड़ग की चमक हो जैसे.
पतझड़ में सागर से आगे,
हँसी तुम्हारी ऊपर जाकर
फ़ेनिल झरने सी गिरती है,
और वसंत के मौसम में, प्रिय,
मुझे तुम्हारी हँसी चाहिए फूल सरीखी
इंतज़ार था जिसका मुझको,
एक नीला फूल, एक गुलाब उस देश का
जिसमें मैं गुंजायमान हूँ.
हँसो रात पर,
और दिवस पर, और चाँद पर,
हँसो हँसो उन टेढ़े मेढ़े
टापू के गलियारों पर,
हँसो हँसो बेढंगे से इस
लड़के पर, जो है केवल तुम्हें चाहता,
लेकिन जब खोलूं मैं
आँखें अपनी या पलकों को बंद करूँ,
जब भी मेरे कदम बढ़ें,
या क़दमों को वापस लूँ,
दानापानी, हवा छीन लो
रोशनी, मधुमास छीन लो
छीनो अपनी हँसी न मुझसे
सच कहता हूँ मर जाऊँगा.
सच कहता हूँ मर जाऊँगा.
Πάρε μου μακρυά το ψωμί, αν το θες,
στέρησέ μου τον αέρα, μα
μη μου στερείς το χαμόγελό σου.
Μη μου παίρνεις μακρυά μου το τριαντάφυλλο,
το λουλούδι του κήπου που δρέπεις,
τη δροσιά που ξάφνου
στάζει μες τη χαρά σου,
το ξαφνικό πάντα  ασημένιο κύμα
που γεννήθηκ' εντός σου.
Ο αγώνας μου τραχύς κι επιστρέφω πάντα
με κουρασμένα τα μάτια,
μες σε καιρούς να βλέπεις την ίδια,
να μην αλλάζει, την ίδια πάντα Γη.
Μα σαν το χαμόγελό σου εισέρχεται στη σκηνή,
στους ουρανούς ανεβαίνει εμένα να βρει,
όλες  ανοίγει τις πόρτες
για μένα στη ζωή.
Αγάπη μου, στις πιο σκότεινες ώρες
ξεσπά το γέλιο σου,
κι αν δεις ξαφνικά
κηλίδες το αίμα μου
στο πλακόστρωτο του δρόμου,
γέλα, γιατί το χαμογέλιο σου
στα χέρια μου θα γίνει
παρθένο κοφτερό σπαθί.
Φθινόπωρο στ' ακρογιάλι
το γέλιο σου πρέπει να  σηκώσει
αφρισμένο τον καταρράχτη του
και την ΄Ανοιξη, την Αγάπη.
Θέλω το γέλιο σου
λουλούδι που περίμενα,
το γαλάζιο λουλούδι, το τριαντάφυλλο
της πατρίδας μου που τ' απηχεί.
Γέλα τη νύχτα,
τη μέρα, στο φεγγάρι,
γέλα στους έλικες
σοκκάκια του νησιού,
γέλα σε τούτο τ' αδέξιο αγόρι
που σ' αγαπά.
Μα σαν ανοίγω
τα μάτια μου και τα κλείνω,
όταν ξεκινούν τα βήματά μου,
όταν επιστρέφουν τα βήματά μου,
αρνήσου μου ψωμί, αγέρα,
φως, πηγή,
μα ποτέ το χαμόγελό σου
γιατί θα πέθαινα.
Meera was in the temple,
Along with common people,
Who also sang with her
Closely following her.
Her every divine song,
All the rural folks sang.
Thus these songs became
Popular in course of time.
Rana failed to bring her
To the family life forever.
His mother felt it a disgrace
To the entire Rajputs race.
His disgruntled widow-sister
And hard hearted mother,
Plotted against Meera then
To kill her with cobra poison.
A cup of milk with poison,
They gave her one fine morn,
In the temple, when she was
Alone offering her prayers.
It was poison, she knew well,
But she drank the cup full.
And continued her prayers.
What a surprise it was!
It didn’t act on Meera.
But the face of Krishna
At Dwaraka turned blue
Suddenly with no clue.
As an unexpected miracle,
The doors of the temple,
Both got themselves shut
And stuck up too tight.
As if nothing had happened,
Before Krishna she remained.
Her in-laws were desperate,
As even poison didn’t act.
Devotees from all corners
Rushed there to see her,
And the crowd was so thick
It threw also some risk.
Spies dressed like sadhus
Studied the strategic points
Thus weakening the position
On the defensive front-line.
One day two sadhus came
And gave Meera that time
A pearl chain as a gift
Which she did accept.
To Krishna she offered it,
The one that was a gift,
To the war-captive Allaudin,
When he was given a pardon.
Rana released him gracefully,
On an agreement mutually,
Offering him this chain,
Just a gift, as a token.
When the same chain
To Rana was shown,
He got terribly wild,
That he was being spied.
Immediately he ordered
The temple be destroyed
Which brought this crisis
To the very palace doors.
Devotees, not even a single,
Came out of the temple.
Even the elephants sent
To break, back they all went.
No damage could be done
To the temple or anyone.
For this incapable blame,
Too wild Rana became.
He sent cobras to bite her.
They did no damage to her.
As disgrace only she brought.
She was a witch, he thought.
Meera blamed only Krishna,
For changing the mind of Rana,
Who was so nice to her earlier
But now bitterly hated her.
So my question to you is simple and yet sharp as a knife,
Are you living a life of death or the death of your life?
Is death coming suddenly, or are you just wasting away?
Which of these morose questions holds the truth I cannot say,
With one hand you're watching your life decay,
On the other you're waiting for your last day,
Whichever of these statements you feel is true,
The end of your life is all it comes down to.
On Hepatitis Day..approaching!
There he is, a very sick man.
Taut his face and a darkish tan.
Life for him, now a staple ban.
left not a friend nor a fan.
Wonder how others see him out.
Doubles he up in a coughing bout.
Think some, he's a filthy lout.
Punks skip by, give him a shout.
Cool and dig on the party scene.
Blonds and brunettes vied to lean.
Now he is ever hardly seen.
An no one else is either keen.
Seldom up an down the street.
Then, too often, he feels the heat.
Barely walks an drags his feet.
Eschewed even by a cop on beat.
Cringes he often clasps his hands.
Hair now thinned to wiry strands.
Stands he far at mounting stands.
Lonely soul from unknown lands.
Frail an done, lost and Gaunt.
Life's now just a slippery Slant.
No more welcome at his haunt.
He has no need and no want.
Life for him is a steady bad day.
Those he knew, turn, shy away.
Pitiable man that has no sway.
Caught up nature an yelled a stay!
Who'll pick up his dejected life?
Who's got the time for this rife?
A broken soul an body in strife.
Brooding days an toying a knife.
(Islamabad)
(May 14,2009)
It’s a life with commitment
It’s a life without complement
It’s a life with compromise
It’s a life without appraise
It’s a life with emotion
It’s a life without inspiration
It’s a life with amuse
It’s a life without refuse
It’s a life with tear & grin
It’s a life without dream
It’s a life with touch
It’s a life without trust
It’s a life with pain
It’s a life without importance
It’s a life with a relation
It’s a life without love and affection
Is it a life or only Compromise?
A life, a journey
without passion and affection
emptiness inside
gloominess outside
dreams fly away
reality is a blur
A life, a journey
without passion and affection
lying outside
dying inside
holding on to a belief
nothing but a dust
A life, a journey
without passion and affection
time passed by
nothing gained everything lost
He was given a life
A life devoid of life
He lives just to live
He breathes just to live.
A life anchored to pain
Suffering and total disdain
A life born into poverty
And stays in poverty
Is he in hell or purgatory?
Is he born just to die?
Who will free him
From this bondage
Of total nothingness?
He glimpsed at the horizon
He saw a dying moon
Dark clouds like cobra
Ready to snap his life.
Is he born just to die?
If this is his fate
I hope he will inherit
The Kingdom of God.
Copyright 2020, Rose Marie Juan-Austin, All Rights Reserved
He. Never until this night have I been stirred.
The elaborate starlight throws a reflection
On the dark stream,
Till all the eddies gleam;
And thereupon there comes that scream
From terrified, invisible beast or bird:
Image of poignant recollection.
She. An image of my heart that is smitten through
Out of all likelihood, or reason,
And when at last,
Youth's bitterness being past,
I had thought that all my days were cast
Amid most lovely places; smitten as though
It had not learned its lesson.
He. Why have you laid your hands upon my eyes?
What can have suddenly alarmed you
Whereon 'twere best
My eyes should never rest?
What is there but the slowly fading west,
The river imaging the flashing skies,
All that to this moment charmed you?
She. A Sweetheart from another life floats there
As though she had been forced to linger
From vague distress
Or arrogant loveliness,
Merely to loosen out a tress
Among the starry eddies of her hair
Upon the paleness of a finger.
He. But why should you grow suddenly afraid
And start -- I at your shoulder --
Imagining
That any night could bring
An image up, or anything
Even to eyes that beauty had driven mad,
But images to make me fonder?
She. Now She has thrown her arms above her head;
Whether she threw them up to flout me,
Or but to find,
Now that no fingers bind,
That her hair streams upon the wind,
I do not know, that know I am afraid
Of the hovering thing night brought me.
a life gone by.....suspectedly self sustaining
it ignited self.....self immolating
courageously it pass itself by..............
its another life....time.....
it is now ethereal,
it is now ephemeral
it is now euphoric
life after life, a span of a rainbow,
its a, , , shipwreck of a life time,
we are gona swim out, , , , riding on the sea waves,
waves lashed high and might...........rocked the ship
surf the same waves, , , , , , current under our feet.......buoyant
swim ashore..........wonderland.........
this is my Utopia...............my after life........another........time...
Tell me not, in mournful numbers,
Life is but an empty dream!
For the soul is dead that slumbers,
And things are not what they seem.
Life is real! Life is earnest!
And the grave is not its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the soul.
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow,
Is our destined end or way;
But to act, that each to-morrow
Find us farther than to-day.
Art is long, and Time is fleeting,
And our hearts, though stout and brave,
Still, like muffled drums, are beating
Funeral marches to the grave.
In the world’s broad field of battle,
In the bivouac of Life,
Be not like dumb, driven cattle!
Be a hero in the strife!
Trust no Future, howe’er pleasant!
Let the dead Past bury its dead!
Act,— act in the living Present!
Heart within, and God o’erhead!
Lives of great men all remind us
We can make our lives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time;
Footprints, that perhaps another,
Sailing o’er life’s solemn main,
A forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, shall take heart again.
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.
A student life is a golden life, truly it is told.
The student who has a golden crown of his study.
Would be a great man in his life with a great hold.
Otherwise an idle student becomes a wild rowdy.
Every student should use his time in a proper way.
If he kills his time, surely time itself always kills him.
such student repents in life every moment of a day.
A studen must think that his time is a  golden rim.
To be a Dr.an engineer, a lawyer or a politician.
Time makes him all for all to become more of thing.
Golden time of a golden life even makes a muscian.
One who neglects this period of life becomes nothing.
This period has a great charm to make also a magician.
A life is in the hands of a student to make him something.
It has neither a beginning nor an end
You can never predict where it will bend.
Life is a teacher, it will show you the way
But unless you live it...it will run away.
If you have no fear of living, you will find
No fear of death and you will not mind.
You have to feel the agonizing sorrow and feel the pain
Only then it will heal and you will be whole again.
It is in every leaf, in your smile, in your tears
In your toil, in your triumphs and in your fears.
Just enjoy the journey without looking back
Savour the senses and you will not lack.
Truth is more in the process than the result
Liberates you from thought and you can exult
To see the truth in the false, thats the key
To understand, without changing it...just let it be
Love life, live it and it will set you free....
What did I do
that I had to
choose between two loves?
Why did I choose
knowing I'd lose
affections thereof?
Who had made you
feel all was through
with my choice hereof?
When did you know
that you would go
if I chose Above?
Where would one be
without Life's Tree
and His Holy Dove?
© 2011
A confounding call from a secluded expanse
Keeps echoing, the vision is so vague
The Abyss and Eden show me a glimpse
In the darkness of the frightening night
The comforting smile of the Seraph
The gruesome laughter of the Satan
The bemused soul is truly unaware
To wherein it really belongs
A shadow floats sniveling above
Concealed by a layer of miasma
The clouds produce spiky drops
Each of the drops penetrates the soul
The twinge makes the soul realize
With each of the rain the haze uncovers
An eternal journey has just began
To an entirely eccentric world
Nearing the death day by day
Nearing new life day by day
Uncovering the enigma of death after life
Uncovering the enigma of life after death
The soul experiences a slow death
The soul regains a new life…
Each life converges to some centre
Expressed or still;
Exists in every human nature
A goal,
Admitted scarcely to itself, it may be,
Too fair
For credibility's temerity
To dare.
Adored with caution, as a brittle heaven,
To reach
Were hopeless as the rainbow's raiment
To touch,
Yet persevered toward, surer for the distance;
How high
Unto the saints' slow diligence
The sky!
Ungained, it may be, by a life's low venture,
But then,
Eternity enables the endeavoring
Again.
Thunderous mountains brought forth from slumber.
Clashing on air in the midnight mists of souls
Spiral to the depths of the earth
Seek the mother to grasp the answers
Instill she has the questions pondered
Never ending whispers amongst the winds
Embraced by the musical tenors of every season
Fiery skies rape the sleeping beauty
All is in a tither, patiently awaiting solace
Come it will, when the heavens divide the earth
Maker of life shield the eyes of the innocents
Twisted agony ceases this day
Exodus has come
No more worship to life
When my aunt died 3 years ago.It was like I was in woods and couldn't find my way out of woods.But it wasn't like
I was lost in woods and couldn't find my way out.It was real lost when my aunt died with cancer.When my great grand
maw died.It was like I drunk something that made me sick to my stomach.But it wasn't like I that I drunk something that
was bad for me and made me sick to my stomach.It was real lost when she died of old age.When my great grand paw died over Thanksgiving month.It was like lost baby fox that got lost from it family.But it wasn't like a baby fox lost it family.It is real thing when you loose a love one.When I first meet Nathan and we started dating.It was like was cup that you was sweet to drink out of.But it wasn't like a cup that is sweet to drink out of.It is real nice thing when me and Nathan meet and I wish it was like was when we first got together.When Nathan change after my grand paw died and he act like something change him.It was like I was racing horse to get back to something I was missing.But it wasn't like I was racing a horse to get back to my life that I once had.When I found Mason on myspace and we started talking again.It was like shooting star when back and got us together.But it wasn't like they was shooting star that went by that got us together.It was just some bad luck on getting together with Mason.When I thought he love me and wanted to be with me.It was like two love birds that are kissing in the trees.But it wasn't like two loves birds are kissing in the trees.It was real dump thing when you think someone wants to be with you and they do not want to be.
Writer is Kristina Riggs
date it ends was March 27
2008 and time it end 1: 30am.
FULL of life, now, compact, visible,
I, forty years old the Eighty-third Year of The States,
To one a century hence, or any number of centuries hence,
To you, yet unborn, these, seeking you.
When you read these, I, that was visible, am become invisible;
Now it is you, compact, visible, realizing my poems, seeking me;
Fancying how happy you were, if I could be with you, and become your
comrade;
Be it as if I were with you. (Be not too certain but I am now with
you.)
I keep the Cross before my eyes
And know the sacrifice He made.
His life for mine, His life for ALL
Is what his dieing  did that day.
I hear the shouts and feel the pain
As He trudged His destined way.
Scourged, deserted, denied, betrayed,
Soon-His death became- -
The heavons exploaded, the lightened raged,
His followers bewildered lay.
All hope was lost, Nothing remained! .
Then came the Glorious Easter Day! .
Life is for life when
Some help other in danger
That is to serve when
They use their brain for other
And advance in body and mind.
If dead, we cease to be ; if total gloom
Swallow up life's brief flash for aye, we fare
As summer-gusts, of sudden birth and doom,
Whose sound and motion not alone declare,
But are their whole of being ! If the breath
Be Life itself, and not its task and tent,
If even a soul like Milton's can know death ;
O Man ! thou vessel purposeless, unmeant,
Yet drone-hive strange of phantom purposes !
Surplus of Nature's dread activity,
Which, as she gazed on some nigh-finished vase,
Retreating slow, with meditative pause,
She formed with restless hands unconsciously.
Blank accident ! nothing's anomaly !
If rootless thus, thus substanceless thy state,
Go, weigh thy dreams, and be thy hopes, thy fears,
The counter-weights !--Thy laughter and thy tears
Mean but themselves, each fittest to create
And to repay the other ! Why rejoices
Thy heart with hollow joy for hollow good ?
Why cowl thy face beneath the mourner's hood ?
Why waste thy sighs, and thy lamenting voices,
Image of Image, Ghost of Ghostly Elf,
That such a thing as thou feel'st warm or cold ?
Yet what and whence thy gain, if thou withhold
These costless shadows of thy shadowy self ?
Be sad ! be glad ! be neither ! seek, or shun !
Thou hast no reason why ! Thou canst have none ;
Thy being's being is contradiction.
I love life..
but i hate
my life....
I love life it's very beautiful
but my life
is a living hell for me
LIFE....
Why do i love life
but hate my life
that's what i
ask myself all the
time......
I'm loving life but hating my life  ever minute
more and more...
i love life but hate
my LIFE..
Human life has rights to be
Walk and talk without a fee
Individuals everywhere from Adam and Eve
Enjoy the same sun and air - believe
Animals too have their rights
God gave them a purpose, days and nights
Recognize why and think of the need
Proper life for all with a world to feed
Reflect about how much you care
No pollution of water and air
Will we soon be able to see the sun?
Ozone offering us protection
How about saving soil, trees, and plants
No more behavior in a trance
Otherwise what will be left
For sons and daughters here bereft?
My heart goes out to dear aborted unborn
No one so much as caring to mourn
Conceived, then killed in pain
One baby in four gets this disdain
Respect for life is what we need
Alpha-Omega, beginning to end
Knowing harvest and birth from planting of seed
Imagine dignity for all life: we must defend!
Its hard to be me.
Everything isn't what it seems
This facade of happiness.Its not real
On a day to day basis, there's no average meal
Soup kitchens, and a bag o' food from a church
Standing in line for hours, My pride it hurts.
A new pair of Jordan's, I wish, I dream
And you people wonder why I seem so mean
Dealing with Diabetes takes away strength I had
After yelling and screaming, I'm depressed yet mad.
Alone I feel, Completely alone.
Searching for a sense of being, this earth I'll roam
Maybe I could change things, If I were back a Kid.
But I'm 19, and I'm nothing So
I don't want to live.
My dear father,
Who was determined to educate me well,
To the best of his ability.
Remained throughout my life,
A Guardian Angel!
I was sixteen then,
I was to travel with my Dad from Cochin to Coimbatore
To graduate in English Literature.
But fate intervened.
On our way, we stopped in Palakkad, my native town,
To meet my Grandparents.
I was the eldest Grandchild in our family.
When they saw me, they were so overcome with emotion
And so much of love, that they refused to let me go!
My Grandparents lived in an old palatial house
With so many trees, fruits, flowers, roots and creepers.
Thus, my father left me in the care of my Grandparent's
After admitting me into a college in the same town.
As I stepped into the long corridors of
Mercy College in Kerala,
I had no idea of where I was heading towards.
But I was sure of one thing
That I was going to enjoy my new freedom,
To explore nature and its new environment,
To make a lot of new friends,
To learn and grow up into a new young lady.
My father missed my presence in the house.
So, he began to write letters to me.
Every month, he wrote a letter with a story.
The stories always had a message and a philosophy.
I still remember his first letter
And the words in the letter made a huge impact on my mind.
The gist of the letter was that I should tread the path of life,
Very carefully, with awareness, and conduct myself so well
That I should become an example to others around me.
My father wrote:
I should aspire to become like a lotus.
The beautiful lotus stands on muddy waters,
Yet, remains so pure and perfect;
Untouched, untainted, uncluttered and unhampered.
The pink petals are ever fresh without a spot of dirt on it.
Like the lotus, I should focus only on my goal,
Never to be swayed by temptations,
Never to be distracted from my studies,
To remain like a jewel in the lotus that never lets off its lustre.
'Moner manush aslo kachhe
Tare dhorline tui jadaye....'
You didn’t embrace the beloved
Who came in your warm reach
To meet you many storms he braved
But why did your heart breach?
He came to illumine you
In the abyss of murky dark
What your mind went through
To push him away so stark?
Life after life he seeks your heart
Deeper and deeper he lands
Only the “Lover” knows him smart
For millennia long he stands
***************Translated from original Bengali poem***************
They took your mortal remains and placed
them gently beneath a flowered covered grave.
Time and again I returned there...begging you
to speak once more. I would speak to you from
sunrise, until a howling wolf could be heard
in the black of night. Each time I left...blinded
by tears and pained by anguish.
This night, as I approached our home...
silhouetted against a hazy moon, I stopped.
There on the wooded path, stood a deer
..seemingly frozen in the soft moonlight.
Its eyes locked with mine. Not a sound broke
the stillness as we both stood motionless.
Slowly...the blanket of night wrapped me in
a peaceful feeling.
Almost involuntary, a soft gentle voice broke
the eerie night...as I spoke to the deer.
'No...it can not be. Is it you?
The deer moved not... as it continued to stare back
in my direction. A voice... in the deepest part of
my being...spoke a muted response.
'Yes...it is I. I have not died.
I am now a part of all that is His.
I am the deer. I am the flower...and
the dew on the grass.
I am the single ray of sunshine, that jets
though a slate gray sky.
I am a childs tears, a mothers joy and a fathers pride.
I am the roar of the ocean...the power of the sea
and the love in your heart.
I am the sounds in the night that you can
not see...but always hear.
I am the music of the stars and the voice
of the angels.
I am the eagle that soars and the white
on a snow capped mountain.
I am the air that you breath and the
memories so dear.
I am the spirit of peace and I am the
spirit of hope.
I am all these things...and more.
I am love. I did not die.'
Tears streamed down my face...as the deer moved
toward me. Now inches from me...the eyes filled
with love...the voice within me, spoke once again...
'I am love...Love does not die...I did not die.'
The deer, brushed gently past me and moved
slowly...silently...disappearing into the woods.
And...now I know.
'Some of us die...Some of us do not.'
© Joe Fazio
Death no wonder
its endless inferiority
known to us all
wonder is life
because we yet not know
the possibilities
yet to be exposed
death now simply a station
where a stop will blot a presence
but life shows fights
colorful its ignition
Wonder
wonderful
ambitious much to get
thousand times to taste life
infinite and endless...
Pranab k c
25/01/2016
He wakes, who never thought to wake again,
Who held the end was Death.  He opens eyes
Slowly, to one long livid oozing plain
Closed down by the strange eyeless heavens.  He lies;
And waits; and once in timeless sick surmise
Through the dead air heaves up an unknown hand,
Like a dry branch.  No life is in that land,
Himself not lives, but is a thing that cries;
An unmeaning point upon the mud; a speck
Of moveless horror; an Immortal One
Cleansed of the world, sentient and dead; a fly
Fast-stuck in grey sweat on a corpse's neck.
I thought when love for you died, I should die.
It's dead.  Alone, most strangely, I live on.
When the sun shines LIFE GOES ON
When the rain falls LIFE GOES ON
When the sun shines or the rain falls LIFE GOES ON.
When you're happy LIFE GOES ON
When you're sad LIFE GOES ON
When you're happy or you're sad if you're good or if
you're bad LIFE GOES ON
When you're laughing LIFE GOES ON
When you're crying LIFE GOES ON
If you're laughing or you're crying
If you're' living or you're dying LIFE GOES ON.
Escape me?
Never--
Beloved!
While I am I, and you are you,
So long as the world contains us both,
Me the loving and you the loth,
While the one eludes, must the other pursue.
My life is a fault at last, I fear:
It seems too much like a fate, indeed!
Though I do my best I shall scarce succeed.
But what if I fail of my purpose here?
It is but to keep the nerves at strain,
To dry one's eyes and laugh at a fall,
And, baffled, get up and begin again,--
So the chace takes up one's life, that's all.
While, look but once from your farthest bound
At me so deep in the dust and dark,
No sooner the old hope goes to ground
Than a new one, straight to the self-same mark,
I shape me--
Ever
Removed!
Escape me?
Never---
Beloved!
While I am I, and you are you,
So long as the world contains us both,
Me the loving and you the loth
While the one eludes, must the other pursue.
My life is a fault at last, I fear:
It seems too much like a fate, indeed!
Though I do my best I shall scarce succeed.
But what if I fail of my purpose here?
It is but to keep the nerves at strain,
To dry one's eyes and laugh at a fall,
And, baffled, get up and begin again,---
So the chace takes up one's life ' that's all.
While, look but once from your farthest bound
At me so deep in the dust and dark,
No sooner the old hope goes to ground
Than a new one, straight to the self-same mark,
I shape me---
Ever
Removed!
Being released from the womb of a woman
We walk towards another
To be chained again
None is dependable
None is lovable
Life is a coplex road
Walls, stones, mud, water...
Life is a groaning running through
Graveyards
Free, imprisioned
Imprisioned, free
Only a desire weeping alone in solitude
Life is just like life with no comparison
And so my poem begins as life as lower class
waking up to see the clouds dark and the summers cold
wishing to change wishing to make a difference
but i have nothing in life not even anything
admiring those will all  and those with any
how it feels being someone with nothing at all
Life is after all life
Whether you lead peacefully or with full of strife
It has to be spent either way
Casual or with noble and purposeful way
Life can never have different yardstick
Even birds have understood when they speak
Arrival of their new born in the nest
As if to celebrate it with fun and live at best
How nice they take care of new born?
Even rich or poor also enjoy same way even if life is fully torn
It is natural and almighty has given
The same sense of feeling and interwoven
Let us not enlarge area of operation
As it gives rise then to deterioration
If one can't look after its own affair at home
How can he withstand outside pressure and welcome
I picked the sense of birds and evaluated
How peaceful was their life and nicely related?
To build nest in time and take full care
Even to face the presence when some one goes near or dares
In blind quest we sometimes sacrifice real happiness
That may make him restless and not shown on face
If life is given for peaceful living and with purpose
It must be made amply clear and must be chosen
Let is build high rise buildings or make living in space
It has to be made with sense barring the mad race
After all it is for our living and that must be borne in mind
Love, affection, relation are all for us not to go blind
Sometimes I attempt to climb ladders
Sometimes I hold pee in my bladder
And there are days I feel exhausted
Almost like I have been combusted
But Life is Life
It doesn't really matter
It will carry on
You can spend it alone
You can share what you have sown
Or you can enjoy it all on your own
Sometimes I read the news
And it gives me chills rather than blues
That I have to give credit to those in poverty
Who embrace it peacefully with open honesty!
But Life is Life
It doesn't really matter
Wars will be lost, some will be won
And babies will continue to be born
Sometimes there is rain, sometimes sun
And some will inevitably die by the hands of a gun
Sometimes I am shy
And I don't know why?
Sometimes I am horny
And I weary my hair in a pony
The fashion magazines, the luxurious limousines
Make you want to take time out commit sin to win
Sometimes I awake feeling on top and up
And the good vibe goes on without a stop
Sometimes I can’t help feeling sloppy
As I try keeping awake from a coffee cup
But Life is Life
It doesn't really matter
Crawl, walk, run or hop
Life itself will never stop
Copyright 2008 - Sylvia Chidi
Life is life, even though it’s tough,
You gotta live with it, even though it’s rough.
It’s a gift, given to us from up above,
So don’t use it for hatred, but use it for love.
Life is the most precious, and valuable gift of all,
So don’t throw it away, by jumping of a wall.
I know it myself, life can be hard,
So if your looking for help, just speak to God.
Life’s of too great value to be thrown away,
So thank God for letting you live – every, single day.
It doesn’t matter if you’re a boy or a girl,
No matter how you kill yourself, you’ve got a date with Lucifer.
You never know when your life will come to an end,
So live your life happily, get a family, and a best friend.
Would you rather have lovely granddaughters, and grandsons? ,
Or kill yourself now, and burn in hell when Dooms day comes.
Live everyday as if it would be your last,
Be kind, happy, and have a blast.
Life is life
life is life, however it would go
love is love, no matter what would occur
love is growing more with every hearts beat
feelings of my heart could never change
love is life, life is love
you can enjoy them as much as you want....
This expression that
life is love and love is life
is very ancient
pronounced by ancient seers.
But we have lost contact
with this love in the modern age.
Our distractions like
sexual attraction,
running after money,
unstable emotions,
religious dogmas,
are very strong in us
having strange roots.
Return to our true nature
in the experience
of the true spirit.
Life is no life
Tuesday,12th March 2019
I feel no different
when present
about Almighty's (Allah's)world
something new unfolds
it comes out in the form of verses
and I make no miss
look at the stars in the sky
and weave it nicely with an earnest try
I am always thankful
for making me faithful
to the cause of poetry
and sing it or present it wonderfully
I see it as an opportunity
to sing and praise His name in the name of humanity
to grant us blessings
and make us well human beings
I shall continue to sing
and try to bring
the good name for mankind
and always find the place in their heart
life is no life
if we run away from the torn strife
I shall remain among poor
and never harbor an ill wish for the neighbor
Hasmukh Mehta
Dedicated to Ayub Kha
In a round way of life
what does a man need?
a woman to be call a wife?
or a plot to grow some whets?
just lie down in the night
with your eyes gaze at the light
knowing nothing could be done with your might
and ask yourself is that all to life
some think  life is all about making wealth
or having a family with good health
they gain all they thought but is like joy as melt
still the same life is to be felt
they try to seek for other solutions
but it becomes a greater situation
is like life is a place without salvation
that is the a place call the world
now let talk about my place call the word
u don't need to be in the dark nights
where satisfactions have great might
because you have come to the light
just believe in Jesus and shine so bright
Life is not to play trick,
Life is to make friendship
With truth and love.
Life is to smile with love,
Life is not to fight with others
Life is not to stop but to
Go ahead on the path of progress.
Life is going on a zigzag way
We are here to honor the life
With every little quiver.
Life is to make merry,
Life is to bring all kinds of happiness,
Life is to do every little things
To achieve big dreams in sun-streams.
Life is stupid, life is dumb
Life is cruel, and devious to some
See the steeple, hear the bell
I speak of religion, short of which I've fell
Feel the beggars sorrow and his pain
See the crippled limping with his cane
Hear the babies, crying in the street
Feel saddened when you hear about the children dying in the heat
Think about the sadness within our heart
It seems almost fictional, almost an art
With all these problems, whose to blame
Carelessness and greediness, have brought upon us shame
Life is stupid, life is dumb
Life is cruel, and devious to some.
Life, what is life really about?
what is are reason for living?
we live to love, we love to live
life is sweet, life is short
so why do we love to live for hurt
so why do we live to love for hurt
life is sweet, life is short
no one knows when love will hurt
we live to learn what loves about
love, what is love really about?
life is sweet, life is short
love your life before its gone! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
life is temporary, so temporary that it is like something
that you see
and then don't because it has escaped like slippery water from
the hold of your hands,
ephemeral
like a mist, like a fuming vapor from boiling water,
like an air that merely passes by your gaze
like the wind
that comes and goes away from your window
like a cloud that drifts
away from your roof, like a leaf that falls from a tree,
like a flower that blooms today
and tomorrow goes away in the wilting petals
life is so temporary like the ticking of the clock
that you hear at night
when again you cannot sleep
this is life
this is my life it is so temporary
and with all my heart
i will hand it to you as a gift
take it
take it
do you think that my life now exends your life?
do you think that you with my life can live a litlle longer?
take it
take it
it is all yours
because i still love you because i have long been dead in this pain
of you
not loving me despite....
Life is the body's light; which, once declining,
Those crimson clouds i' th' cheeks and lips leave shining:-
Those counter-changed tabbies in the air,
The sun once set, all of one colour are:
So, when death comes, fresh tinctures lose their place,
And dismal darkness then doth smutch the face.
Through all the ups, all the downs,
Some will be there, some can't be found.
If they won't care as they should, so be it.
This is life in the way that I wish to see it.
You can give your all, or you can try not.
When they decide to leave, what have you got?
You build it up, then it breaks away.
This is life in the way I see it today.
Days come and go, true hearts stay close.
Without happiness, love is an imitation at most.
You haven't stayed close, it's hard to love you,
This is life in a way that is sadly true.
To leave behind such a feeble mind,
forget it and pursue someone real.
This is my goal, and in time...
This will be life and the way that I feel.
Life is what life is with you
Life is the deepest love of life
Life is the nectar of the result of sacrifice
And life is life when it is going
Towards supreme eternal atmosphere
Life is life happy and opulent in life
Life is in nutshell different sacrifices.
Life of my life, you seem to me
Like some pallid olive tree
Or the faded rose I see:
Nor do you lack beauty,
But pleasing in every way to me,
In shyness or in flattery,
Whether you follow me or flee,
Consume, destroy me softly.
LIFE, believe, is not a dream
So dark as sages say;
Oft a little morning rain
Foretells a pleasant day.
Sometimes there are clouds of gloom,
But these are transient all;
If the shower will make the roses bloom,
O why lament its fall ?
Rapidly, merrily,
Life's sunny hours flit by,
Gratefully, cheerily,
Enjoy them as they fly !
What though Death at times steps in
And calls our Best away ?
What though sorrow seems to win,
O'er hope, a heavy sway ?
Yet hope again elastic springs,
Unconquered, though she fell;
Still buoyant are her golden wings,
Still strong to bear us well.
Manfully, fearlessly,
The day of trial bear,
For gloriously, victoriously,
Can courage quell despair !
Where there is life there is love
Where there is love there is life
Life and love are like pigeon and dove
Love and life are like husband and wife A child when born
Can not survive on his own
Has to be nourished
Has to be nursed
Has to be wrought up
Has to be brought up
This has to be done
For human race to go on
Only love sees this through
Those who fail to offer fall through Life is about nature
We are all part of its pasture
The pasture is too precious and beautiful
To be destroyed by a handful We should all strive
For joyful life
We must all unite
For peace and happiness to ignite
Life is a dream to some.
Drifting without a goal.
Life is a tragedy to others,
Without knowledge of the soul.
Life can be what you make it.
With courage undaunted and strong.
If you try to do the best you can.
Instead of just drifting along.
Life is earnest, Life is demanding,
When we live by Universal Law.
For the laws are unfailing and true,
For the flawless action we feel awe.
Universal Law was in the beginning,
And will last for ever more.
When we live by these Laws
Life will cease to be a chore.
So live a life of one who knows,
That unseen Laws govern all.
Then your life will run smoothly,
There will never be a fall.
Life' it's not easy, it comes with its bumps and its grinds.
Picking us up at times in our lives then kickin us straight from behind.
But one thing I've noticed as time goes by the humor that you behold
God has bestowed a magnificent gift that never makes people grow old.
As late I journey'd o'er the extensive plain
Where native Otter sports his scanty stream,
Musing in torpid woe a Sister's pain,
The glorious prospect woke me from the dream.
At every step it widen'd to my sight -
Wood, Meadow, verdant Hill, and dreary Steep,
Following in quick succession of delight, -
Till all - at once - did my eye ravish'd sweep!
May this (I cried) my course through Life portray!
New scenes of Wisdom may each step display,
And Knowledge open as my days advance!
Till what time Death shall pour the undarken'd ray,
My eye shall dart thro' infinite expanse,
And thought suspended lie in Rapture's blissful trance.
I dont know the purpose of my life
I am a giant, i am carrying the earth on my back
I fighted in my battles and never be beaten
Rabid winds got on my frozen body
Bad people, people talked to me lies
Beautyful women, eroticly, lustily kissed me
All of them thiefs of a scene of the film of my life
All of them something wanna get of me
I dont know the purpose of my life
But i know when this time will come
When the purpose, ethical or not
I will understand, i will conquer, i will succeed
A breeze will make me fall, with no purpose
My writing, is the life raft,
that prevents my drowning,
in a turbulent sea of reality.
© Joe Fazio
Life, the wonderful dream
Never meets with reality
Till its final moment
Called death
Every day we dream of
Conquering new continents
And kingdoms
Without realising
All are illusions
And without realising
The final reality
Will one day envelop us
So finality is the true reality
Life, what is the life?
That many of us complain about it
That many of us refuse to take better care of our lives?
Life, what is the life?
Is it a gift?
Or it just happen by coincidence?
No way jose?
this is not true
Because you have all the facts wrong?
Someone gave life to you
And in order to do it he had to sacrifice his
It is our master
Remember this people
Life is always light
for some
Life is always fight
for some,
Life is full of light
For some
Life is without light for some,
Life is search for light,
Some live a long life,
Some live for a short,
Some live for a purpose,
some live for themselves,
Some live for others,
Some are good thinkers,
Some are  fantastic,
Some live in fantasies,
Some are short sighted,
And live a life, full of fight,
Some or long sighted,
And always tumble or stumble!
Some are great by birth,
Some are great by thoughts,
Some are great by deeds,
some are really great,
and they have the vission,
They have the strength and will,
they look as a lake still,
Yet they are full of life,
They always smile
And keep worries way a mile!
some has ways open, some has to open them on own,
Some Wander where life takes,
Some take life where they want,
Some are really great
Those realise, if not there is either birth or death,
Who is there to say what is life?
A concept followed by us since ages
Skillfully adopted and managed
That we lead double standard life
To beat the people with words of double edged knife
Some people are expert in putting false front
They may have all comforts in life yet show it as absent
May live with poor standard as if they have nothing
In fact they are misleading self for something
They may show to others that they are sympathetic
Worry about human sufferings and feel pathetic
Politicians fall under this category and thrive
They get hand on big rehabilitation programme to survive
Even doctors prefer honorable service
They devote few hours in charitable places
Their main objective is not to serve needy
But call them in their clinic just to show they are not greedy
Teachers hardly stay in school to teach
Many good lessons they may take on hand to preach
They may concentrate more on out side tuition classes
They have worn the mask to fool the masses
Traders put label as honest suppliers
They adulterate food and prove as liars
They play with the health of people
Only poor people suffer and land in trouble
Country suffers the field of budget allocation
The aid does not reach to the people in question
It makes way straight to fund managers
Politicians are eager to grab as scavengers
The social service has become tool of unsuccessful
The person, who has failed in life, comes forward to do needful
It is strange and funny to witness such scoundrels
But they are well disciplined to offer orchestrated tell
Through all the injustice making life not fair,
the world is choking, gasping for air.
Even though people differ in color, beliefs, and tongues,
we all have love in our hearts and air in our lungs.
When all we do is discriminate,
all that shows is the evils of mans hate.
To reverse this world-wide tragedy,
people have to stop and realize that their acting like gravity.
Breaking people down like a dictator of hate,
the world works for the rich with no debate.
behind every cheap dollar top,
there is a child wasting away in a third-world shop.
Engraved in the treads are the blood and tears,
of the little children expressing their fears.
Although we think that this could not be true,
the world works so shady, not caring what other people must go through.
Life is too short to be spent
griping about the past,
things you don't have,
places you haven't seen,
things you haven't done.
Life is too short to be spent
holding grievances against another,
finding fault in your brother,
counting the wrongs done on you.
Life is just long enough
to enjoy the beauty of a sunrise
the smell of wet earth
and the sound of laughter
after a long day's work.
Life is just long enough
to practice compassion and generosity,
to comfort the grieving,
to lend strength to the fainthearted,
and direction to the lost.
I.
Room after room,
I hunt the house through
We inhabit together.
Heart, fear nothing, for, heart, thou shalt find her---
Next time, herself!---not the trouble behind her
Left in the curtain, the couch's perfume!
As she brushed it, the cornice-wreath blossomed anew:
Yon looking-glass gleaned at the wave of her feather.
II.
Yet the day wears,
And door succeeds door;
I try the fresh fortune---
Range the wide house from the wing to the centre.
Still the same chance! She goes out as I enter.
Spend my whole day in the quest,---who cares?
But 'tis twilight, you see,---with such suites to explore,
Such closets to search, such alcoves to importune!
The question'what is love' has grown from the stage of seed into a plant, in me...
Its heading towards a huge tree,
I couldn't bare it any longer....
So, I started brooding over it,
but i have no answer....
So started getting answer from people
around me...
Mom answered'love strengthens every relation'....
But my dad replied'it energies a person'....
A newly wedded couple told
Its understanding of souls.....
Expecting my friend's answer would match with one of above replies.....
But it did not, he said LOVE is
a relation wit no end point.....
But for a passionate lover
LOVE is above all....
For my grand mother
LOVE is happiness...
But for younger cousin
LOVE is his CRUSH....
I m deeply worried.none of d above replies matchedddd.........
After a great disappointment, a clarity overcame my frustrations......
I, then realised,
LOVE IS LIFE
LIFE IS LOVE..........there is love at every part of our life..................
we just need to feel it......
In the tranquility of hope
And divinity of love that
Binds us to feel the inner self
Churns the butterfly moments
Though we met umpteen of times
We drown to search, what we lost
Found the new us in every sight
Mystical the experiences, at different levels
Felt the warmth of your companionship
In every breath....
Though let down by the one
Whom you trust...
Fall in love, long for the real one
Love is life, life is love...
When love resides in heart
The head makes body to dance
Life enjoys moments
Tic tac tic toe tic tac
Sharing and caring reaches at peak
Flower bloom, bird sings,
Music notes flows everywhere
Tic tac tic toe tic tac
The beauty of this life
Dances in tiny things
Wearing the shawl of happiness
Tic tac tic toe tic tac
in the love's blanket
our body melts together
to give a new life
those in music for the long haul
are chime web symphony enchanted
because music is an inseparable
part of their intrinsic soul giving being
music is a timeless passion when you feel
reference kiwi artists Tim Finn, Dave Dobbyn
music is breath of life for life artists
music is timeless music which addresses
scale entrapment felt human conditions...
who we are where we are our societies
perceptions of our societies our realities
thinking mind does not outgrow curiosities
interactive sing gifted perceptions
music transforms through generations
insight life quickened mind survives
gift love artistically giving survives
survives immortal ravage time tests
music is breath of life for life artists...
Western Wind
Western wind, when will thou blow,
The small rain down can rain?
Christ! If my love were in my arms,
And I in my bed again!
If innocence and wonder together
Are the true foundation of wisdom
(And they are, you know they are)
Then innocence has not been lost
But is something we must achieve;
And wonder does not come naturally,
But only arrives after fretful years
Of not knowing.
You are beautiful,
You give birth to my soul,
You blossom me wealth,
You nurture me health,
You may make me cry,
I may wish you inexistence,
But at my last sigh,
You grant me resistance.
I know that I'm not your only,
But do you know, that this, makes me feel lonely?
I know that millions depend on you,
But to still love you, do you know what I had to go through?
You roam the earth in salience,
You wonder with your grace,
But  why must you bring abhorrence
Resent and loath on to our face?
I for one, have it mutilated
By your hands created and now decimated;
My eyes bleed at your sight
And die at your upcoming light;
O LIFE, O LIFE, O LIFE
CAN YOU PLEASE END MY STRIFE? !
O ME! O life!... of the questions of these recurring;
Of the endless trains of the faithless--of cities fill'd with the
foolish;
Of myself forever reproaching myself, (for who more foolish than I,
and who more faithless?)
Of eyes that vainly crave the light--of the objects mean--of the
struggle ever renew'd;
Of the poor results of all--of the plodding and sordid crowds I see
around me;
Of the empty and useless years of the rest--with the rest me
intertwined;
The question, O me! so sad, recurring--What good amid these, O me, O
life?
Answer.
That you are here--that life exists, and identity;
That the powerful play goes on, and you will contribute a verse.
One life to live one life to love
Cherish the good disregard the bad
Good or bad, take it as a learning experience and move on in life
Both the experience has to be shielded and accepted as souvenir
Utilize bad experiences to improve today
Treasure good experiences for better tomorrow
And escort the life with confidence, honesty and pride
One life to live one life to love
Cherish the good disregard the bad
Happiness or Sorrow either cannot be borrowed
Life is incomplete without each other and both cannot be ignored
Both brings you different flavors and taste to life
Happiness keeps you sweet, Sorrow keep you human
Taste the life with varieties and not to be narrowed
One life to live one life to love
Cherish the good disregard the bad
Life is wonderful gift bestowed by god and honored by nature
Has to be respected and believed by every human and creature
Everyone’s role are defined and are here with the purpose, decided by creator
Educate the life on the laws of god and the laws of nature
Imbibe these laws of life by choosing god and nature as a tutor
In no way, one should violate the laws made by god and nature, rather then desiring to be a pauper
One life to live one life to love
Cherish the good disregard the bad
Live life with honesty, with purpose, with determination and pride
Live life with Joy, with happiness, with good values and principles
Live life to the fullest but within the laws of the god and the nature
Your existence should be respected and honored for all the good work you render or did for self, family, friends & for the rest of the world during your tenure and the stay on this earth in this life.
Your exit should be without any guilt and you should die with peace, smile and satisfaction.
No one can outturn their destiny
Think good, Do good and Be good, rest live it up to the god to decide
One life to live one life to love
Cherish the good disregard the bad
Pinky Lekhraj Porwal
Everyone's life
Everyone's life's really tragic it seems,
There's just not time friend to live all our dreams.
While you may try to keep stiff upper lip,
Gravity's plotting to just sink your ship!
Wonder why some people's face sports a frown?
Most of our trains never get out of town
Yes, there are those with bright lives that seem charmed
(Living in fenced fear, their houses alarmed!)
Our fullest flower's the fruit of all breath
Blossoms revealed as harbinger of death
Our seed the key to mortality's curse
Our blood the oil for humanity's hearse.
Einstein's reality always a lie*
Truth(s)     we are seeking in quite short supply
Death is an area most think is real
Candidate surely for concept puerile!
When we are sure that the opposite's true
Death's unreality comes into view!
Credible evidence that soul exists.
Vanity skewered by what it resists.
Poetry can't prove that man's soul is real,
Satan's best plot not a single soul steal,
Your darkest moment when love hides its face
God's possibility blows up the place!
As I was a-wand'ring ae morning in spring,
I heard a young ploughman sae sweetly to sing;
And as he was singin', thir words he did say, -
There's nae life like the ploughman's in the month o' sweet May.
The lav'rock in the morning she'll rise frae her nest,
And mount i' the air wi' the dew on her breast,
And wi' the merry ploughman she'll whistle and sing,
And at night she'll return to her nest back again.
RARe 2nd Stanza - In Life And For Life
March 15, 2020
Desire
Pleasure
To be
To have
In life and for life, so
Try your best to acquire.
Words beaten out of the frozen mouth are never remembered.
Memories as lovely as the moment when all sunflowers spring out in summer luxury are always thrown back into our knowledge luggage.
Songs are never remembered for a lifetime but memorised for sometime.
Money never stays behind but the reputation and the name that you carry as your prestige always sits near your doorstep as a welcome mat until death.
Love pulses your nerves and picks at your soul reminding you of the sorrows that your life holds at as a burden.
Your eye blinks at every note the wind peaks,
Your ear reacts to every sound that echoes and picks on your drum,
Your nose rubs the scent, aura and dust filled within the air,
Your heart bats, every second or so, your red-rose blood around your body,
Your limbs groove at every step that you are made to craft.
But all these die out with fun when all your senses are blinded and when you enter the most valuable place on earth, where there are unfulfilled dreams, desires and aims…
When light all around you dies out, only your soul leads you to the right direction.
The only reality is- beginning- middle- end- and then comes the freedom of your enslaved soul when it breaks through those bars of your beautiful but unreal body!
The more we live, more brief appear
Our life's succeeding stages;
A day to childhood seems a year,
And years like passing ages.
The gladsome current of our youth,
Ere passion yet disorders,
Steals lingering like a river smooth
Along its grassy borders.
But as the careworn cheek grows wan,
And sorrow's shafts fly thicker,
Ye stars, that measure life to man,
Why seem your courses quicker?
When joys have lost their bloom and breath,
And life itself is vapid,
Why, as we reach the Falls of Death
Feel we its tide more rapid?
It may be strange—yet who would change
Time's course to slower speeding,
When one by one our friends have gone,
And left our bosoms bleeding?
Heaven gives our years of fading strength
Indemnifying fleetness;
And those of youth, a seeming length,
Proportion'd to their sweetness.
in the midst of night
burn without predicament
secret myriad
Store up for a while
What things you might need
Just for few weeks
No more you see
We've lived with the sins
Of greed and lust
We don't need anymore
To be blamed on us
Just do it slow
That way from where it might flow
It might be here faster
For others you know.
Some planted early
It won't be too long
So just the staples
In case something goes wrong
And point out the toxins
Planted in the way
So others can see them
As they pass here today
Just point them out
As you pass by
No false accurasations
For our goal is High
The Lord's Prayer
Our Father Which art in heaven
Hallowed be Thy Name
Thy Kingdom come
THY WILL BE DONE
On earth as it is in Heaven
Give us this day our daily Bread
And forgive us our sins
For we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us
And lead us not into temptation
But deliver us from evil
For Thine is the Kingdom and the power and the glory
Forever.  Amen.
Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life Life
The experience of faith
affects all the faculties
and yet transcends them all.
Spiritual life is not mental life.
It is not thought alone,
nor is it a life of sensation.
It is not merely a life of feeling,
nor does it exclude thought
and feeling but elevates all
in love and in faith.
Isn't this life is like
this frozen ice on the leaves,
it will fall drop by drop
like our age
leaving everything behind.
Teachers are special, they enable...
Teachers are speakers to adults predestined in life.
Teachers are single or married...
Teachers can be, a husband or wife.
Teachers are specially able.
Some men teachers smoke pipes branded 'Dr. Grabel'.
I had a Foster Mother, who earlier in life, was a teacher.
It was a most erred way to end the life under God's own nose...
T'was breast cancer, that God gave to loving families of many women,
as His last lonely unacceptable unwanted answer.
Disease does not be easily accepted or does it happly please...
Teachers in life should always get pay raises.
Teachers, Police, and Firemen, always need pay raises and also much
and many people's praises. Teachers, they are the best...
Teachers, they hand out many a test. Teachers, ya gotta love them, than most of the rest.
The lost boyhood and the lost teen age,
Roaming on a bicycle in a small town,
That wasn’t completely electrified,
Windy evenings of summer vacation,
Standing at a cigarette and beetle shop,
Greedy of watching pretty teen aged girls,
Engaged in shopping and sometimes having a look,
On the boys’ penetrating eyes,
Smiling slightly and turning their backs,
Towards the Romeos, even more pleased,
To have a nicer view of turning beauties,
Difficult to decide whether a girl in a particular age,
Appears more beautiful from the front or from the rear,
Coming back home satisfied, content and peaceful,
Sleeping below the open sky, starring at the moon,
Guessing the time with the help of stars,
The inviting heavy eye lids to a land of dreams,
Whereat those girls with fairy wings,
With guitars in their hands and semitransparent milky dress,
Singing, dancing the song of future,
A future that is yet a dream of the world,
Used to come in the bluish dreams,
Interrupted by a sudden downpour,
Quickly removing the bed to verandah,
To enjoy a truly wet cloudy night,
What a life it was!
Could it come back! !
Awaking in a bedroom and watching the ceiling fan,
Appearing as enemy’s bomber in a blue zero power bulb,
Reminding the threats of growing weapons,
Reminding the threats of a nuclear war,
Reminding the threats of growing population,
Reminding the threats of scarcity of water,
Reminding the threats of shortage of energy,
Reminding the threats of shortage of resources,
Where has gone the taste of vegetables,
Grown with the help of natural fertilizers,
Where has gone tolerance of religions we believe,
Why cruel nationalism has infected the loving human heart,
Thanks to the man in the mosque who’s calling,
Getup old man and wash your dirty body,
Proceed to the mosque and try to clean,
The poisoned brain, the seat of your soul!
What a life that was!
What a life is it! !
Money, name nor fame,
Joy nor yet dharma,
Nor this-that karma,
What then is life's aim?
Of myriads things rife,
Aim of life is life.
_________________________
Haikus |35.01.2019|
The Best thing in life is life itself.
How we live it determines our role.
The Good the bad and the indifferent.
Even a sure thing Becomes I don't know.
The Hopes the Dreams The nightmares
They're all important parts of the game.
The only rule is there are no rules.
And every one of us is to blame.
So a bit of advice I give to you.
On your journey through the looking glass,
Leave the future to the future.
And the Past to the Past
Believe in yourself. Believe in God.
And make an effort to do it right
For tomorrow is promised to no one.
And this just may be you're last night.
Light flows our war of mocking words, and yet,
Behold, with tears mine eyes are wet!
I feel a nameless sadness o'er me roll.
Yes, yes, we know that we can jest,
We know, we know that we can smile!
But there's a something in this breast,
To which thy light words bring no rest,
And thy gay smiles no anodyne.
Give me thy hand, and hush awhile,
And turn those limpid eyes on mine,
And let me read there, love! thy inmost soul.
Alas! is even love too weak
To unlock the heart, and let it speak?
Are even lovers powerless to reveal
To one another what indeed they feel?
I knew the mass of men conceal'd
Their thoughts, for fear that if reveal'd
They would by other men be met
With blank indifference, or with blame reproved;
I knew they lived and moved
Trick'd in disguises, alien to the rest
Of men, and alien to themselves--and yet
The same heart beats in every human breast!
But we, my love!--doth a like spell benumb
Our hearts, our voices?--must we too be dumb?
Ah! well for us, if even we,
Even for a moment, can get free
Our heart, and have our lips unchain'd;
For that which seals them hath been deep-ordain'd!
Fate, which foresaw
How frivolous a baby man would be--
By what distractions he would be possess'd,
How he would pour himself in every strife,
And well-nigh change his own identity--
That it might keep from his capricious play
His genuine self, and force him to obey
Even in his own despite his being's law,
Bade through the deep recesses of our breast
The unregarded river of our life
Pursue with indiscernible flow its way;
And that we should not see
The buried stream, and seem to be
Eddying at large in blind uncertainty,
Though driving on with it eternally.
But often, in the world's most crowded streets,
But often, in the din of strife,
There rises an unspeakable desire
After the knowledge of our buried life;
A thirst to spend our fire and restless force
In tracking out our true, original course;
A longing to inquire
Into the mystery of this heart which beats
So wild, so deep in us--to know
Whence our lives come and where they go.
And many a man in his own breast then delves,
But deep enough, alas! none ever mines.
And we have been on many thousand lines,
And we have shown, on each, spirit and power;
But hardly have we, for one little hour,
Been on our own line, have we been ourselves--
Hardly had skill to utter one of all
The nameless feelings that course through our breast,
But they course on for ever unexpress'd.
And long we try in vain to speak and act
Our hidden self, and what we say and do
Is eloquent, is well--but 't#is not true!
And then we will no more be rack'd
With inward striving, and demand
Of all the thousand nothings of the hour
Their stupefying power;
Ah yes, and they benumb us at our call!
Yet still, from time to time, vague and forlorn,
From the soul's subterranean depth upborne
As from an infinitely distant land,
Come airs, and floating echoes, and convey
A melancholy into all our day.
Only--but this is rare--
When a belov{'e}d hand is laid in ours,
When, jaded with the rush and glare
Of the interminable hours,
Our eyes can in another's eyes read clear,
When our world-deafen'd ear
Is by the tones of a loved voice caress'd--
A bolt is shot back somewhere in our breast,
And a lost pulse of feeling stirs again.
The eye sinks inward, and the heart lies plain,
And what we mean, we say, and what we would, we know.
A man becomes aware of his life's flow,
And hears its winding murmur; and he sees
The meadows where it glides, the sun, the breeze.
And there arrives a lull in the hot race
Wherein he doth for ever chase
That flying and elusive shadow, rest.
An air of coolness plays upon his face,
And an unwonted calm pervades his breast.
And then he thinks he knows
The hills where his life rose,
And the sea where it goes.
TO THE HONOURED MR ENDYMION PORTER, GROOM OF
THE BED-CHAMBER TO HIS MAJESTY
Sweet country life, to such unknown,
Whose lives are others', not their own!
But serving courts and cities, be
Less happy, less enjoying thee.
Thou never plough'st the ocean's foam
To seek and bring rough pepper home:
Nor to the Eastern Ind dost rove
To bring from thence the scorched clove:
Nor, with the loss of thy loved rest,
Bring'st home the ingot from the West.
No, thy ambition's master-piece
Flies no thought higher than a fleece:
Or how to pay thy hinds, and clear
All scores: and so to end the year:
But walk'st about thine own dear bounds,
Not envying others' larger grounds:
For well thou know'st, 'tis not th' extent
Of land makes life, but sweet content.
When now the cock (the ploughman's horn)
Calls forth the lily-wristed morn;
Then to thy corn-fields thou dost go,
Which though well soil'd, yet thou dost know
That the best compost for the lands
Is the wise master's feet, and hands.
There at the plough thou find'st thy team,
With a hind whistling there to them:
And cheer'st them up, by singing how
The kingdom's portion is the plough.
This done, then to th' enamell'd meads
Thou go'st; and as thy foot there treads,
Thou seest a present God-like power
Imprinted in each herb and flower:
And smell'st the breath of great-eyed kine,
Sweet as the blossoms of the vine.
Here thou behold'st thy large sleek neat
Unto the dew-laps up in meat:
And, as thou look'st, the wanton steer,
The heifer, cow, and ox draw near,
To make a pleasing pastime there.
These seen, thou go'st to view thy flocks
Of sheep, safe from the wolf and fox,
And find'st their bellies there as full
Of short sweet grass, as backs with wool:
And leav'st them, as they feed and fill,
A shepherd piping on a hill.
For sports, for pageantry, and plays,
Thou hast thy eves, and holydays:
On which the young men and maids meet,
To exercise their dancing feet:
Tripping the comely country Round,
With daffadils and daisies crown'd.
Thy wakes, thy quintels, here thou hast,
Thy May-poles too with garlands graced;
Thy Morris-dance; thy Whitsun-ale;
Thy shearing-feast, which never fail.
Thy harvest home; thy wassail bowl,
That's toss'd up after Fox i' th' hole:
Thy mummeries; thy Twelve-tide kings
And queens; thy Christmas revellings:
Thy nut-brown mirth, thy russet wit,
And no man pays too dear for it.--
To these, thou hast thy times to go
And trace the hare i' th' treacherous snow:
Thy witty wiles to draw, and get
The lark into the trammel net:
Thou hast thy cockrood, and thy glade
To take the precious pheasant made:
Thy lime-twigs, snares, and pit-falls then
To catch the pilfering birds, not men.
--O happy life!  if that their good
The husbandmen but understood!
Who all the day themselves do please,
And younglings, with such sports as these:
And lying down, have nought t' affright
Sweet Sleep, that makes more short the night.
CAETERA DESUNT--
nature and our planet
are special sacred holy
the life blood of all earth life...
when nature struggles humanity
struggles
when nature dies
humanity dies...
already industrial pollutants
diminish life quality
global warming super cell
unleashes disasters...
catastrophic Arctic ice melts
slow global
ocean currents
sea levels...
rising inundate coastal agriculture
eighty percent
of earth's mega cities
are sentenced will...
be swallowed under salt seas
rewriting destinies of countries
changing the shape of continents
swallowing low lying islands...
eating once familiar coastlines of the world
Now, the spring season is almost over.
My Asian pear trees are loaded with green baby fruits.
Tulip garden already closed its season.
In my lush garden, mustard greens bolster flowers.
Many butterflies and bees convene here.
Koi fish joyfully swim under dawning light.
Red Knockout roses bloom around my Koi pond.
Under blue sky and silver clouds, breezes softly touch rose petals.
A metal fence sits at the end of a nearby tennis court.
Horizontally on this fence, a long pumpkin vine crawls
Under blue sky and on white fence, yellow pumpkin flowers bloom.
I sip a cup of coffee with its rising smoke of sweet aroma
While I carefully spread pollen with q-tip in my other hand.
In place of insects, I pollinate the pumpkin flower.
Just in few days, a new pumpkin will grow to fit my folded palm.
I know for sure, by pollinating the female flower with pollen,
The life of this new pumpkin begins at this very moment.
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
June,2016
Above poem is the translation poem of the Vietnamese poem of NHIEN NGUYEN MD:
CUỘC ĐỜI TRÁI BÍ BẮT ĐẦU KHI THỤ PHẤN, KHI NÀO ĐỜI NGƯỜI BẮT ĐẦU?
Bây giờ sắp hết mùa Xuân
Hàng lê tầu đã đầy cành trái non.
Vườn hoa tulip tàn rồi
Vườn rau xanh mướt, cải ngồng trổ bông.
Rộn ràng ong bướm về đông
Bình minh nắng mới, Koi bơi rộn ràng.
Quanh hồ, hồng đỏ Knockout
Trời xanh, mây trắng, gió lay cánh mềm.
Rào sân tennis gần bên
Một giây bí đỏ leo trên rào này.
Trời xanh, rào trắng, bông vàng
Sương đêm lóng lánh bông vàng, lá xanh.
Cà phê thơm khói, uống dần
Tay kia Q-tip phấn vàng nhẹ thoa
Tôi làm ông mối, bà mai
Chờ vài ngày nữa, bí vừa lòng tay.
Nhụy hoa đực cái giao nhau
Cuội đời trái bí bắt đầu từ đây.
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
June,2016
Don't remember,
Still can't recall,
The fusion of gametes.
The beginning of,
A unique life form,
The creation of me.
Nestled in the womb,
Secured in the sac,
The nature of oblivion.
The precious first,
Inhalation of air,
The birth of me.
Senses overloaded,
Functions overdrive,
The unfolding of truth.
I crawl I walk,
I ride the tricycle,
The cycle of life.
Peculiar surroundings,
Familiar voices,
The currency of love.
Aspire Inspire,
Abstract piece of art,
The decor of personality.
Challenges unfold,
Confusions aplenty,
The march of faithful soldier.
All in One,
One in All,
The One of Infinity.
A spark in the heart,
A gleam in the eye,
The roar of the calling.
Craving to give,
Forgetting to take,
The charity of love.
Move forth run swift,
Rise up fly high,
The vastness of space.
To chuckle to laugh,
To sob to wail,
The subjectivity of time.
From ashes to ashes,
From dust to dust,
The dimensions of existence.
Let there be love,
Let there be light,
The recipe of germination.
Life had come into my life
And furtively, had taken away
The luminous stars from my eyes,
And the imagination of my mind,
The innocent dreams of my heart
And threw them away, with all my hope,
In a deserted terrain of my being;
And I found myself bereft of my being:
In the repetitive circle of routine,
In a vapid mundane reality
That deprives me of my existence;
Saturating itself at the core of whatever
Might have become of my life.
If after rude and boisterous seas
My wearied pinnace here finds ease;
If so it be I've gain'd the shore,
With safety of a faithful oar;
If having run my barque on ground,
Ye see the aged vessel crown'd;
What's to be done?  but on the sands
Ye dance and sing, and now clap hands.
--The first act's doubtful, but (we say)
It is the last commends the Play.
★This Life This Life I Cannot Leave You Again
☆Luo Zhihai Lyrics and Translation
Where did your form appear?
On the golden seawall shone sunlight.
Carrying a packsack and seeking for you.
We were interesting to enjoy sunset and tide.
Rain poured down and wind raged.
Waves turned up and down and thunders from the sky.
Sailing side by side I snuggled with you.
Until pushing clouds and bringing to light.
Where did your steps climb and cross?
Jungle faint and mountain paths wound
By your gun, a wild boar was shot.
I caught up seeing that with my eyes.
Forest over the thorns and moss.
Wore enough clothes and opened your big eyes.
Listened to birds singing saying goodbye.
We were out of the jungle back to life.
Looking for your footprints with my dream.
Write our love in diaries at night.
Singing with karaoke and MP4.
Make love together in happy time.
Enjoy games and dancing every day.
Good mood, beautiful scene every day.
No matter where you go long distances.
This life this life I cannot leave you again.
At 16: 00 on July 30,2010 to at 16: 00 on July 31 wrote & translated.
▲Chinese Text
★今生今世我再也离不开你
☆罗志海歌词
你的身 影出现在哪里？
阳光照耀金色的海堤
背上行襄兴冲冲寻找你
我们饶有趣味赏落日潮汐
天有不测风云飘泼大雨
海浪滔天翻滾雷打电劈
肩并肩扬帆我偎依着你
直到拨 开乌云重见天日
你的步履跋涉到哪里？
丛林幽幽山路崎岖里
一只野猪撞上你 枪底
我匆匆赶上尽收眼里
林中遍布苔藓和荆棘
请穿够衣服小心脚底
听小鸟婉 转歌唱嘀哩哩
我们走出丛林重现生机
带上梦想我追寻你足迹
你情我爱通通写 进日记
一起唱卡拉OK听MP4
一起作爱我们一起happy
天天跳呀舞呀尽情游戏
天天好心情精彩又靓丽
不管你长途跋涉要去哪里
今生今世我再也离不开你
< br>2010年7月30日16: 00至7月31日16: 00作词翻译
Tie the strings to my life, my Lord,
Then I am ready to go!
Just a look at the horses --
Rapid! That will do!
Put me in on the firmest side,
So I shall never fall;
For we must ride to the Judgment,
And it's partly down hill.
But never I mind the bridges,
And never I mind the sea;
Held fast in everlasting race
By my own choice and thee.
Good-by to the life I used to lives,
And the world I used to know;
And kiss the hills for me, just once;
Now I am ready to go!
‘Too much of a good thing may be bad'
As the old cliche' goes
So always do things in moderation
Just like The Lord of Heaven knows
The blessings of God are great
As anyone can clearly see
And when done in moderation
We all can live quite free
That's the common sense He gave us
Each and every one
So practice it in our own ways
And His blessings will fill our days
Now that does not mean to take
The middle of the road each time
That just means to do what's right
And give glory to His name
For one will get smashed standing
In the middle of the road
If one fails on which side to stand
At the very least when the Word is told
< br>
Friends hip friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship  Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
Traveling the highway one summer day
Looking at the land along the way
But there was something wrong that should not be
It could happen to anyone even you or me
There stood a man waiting for a ride
With shaggy clothes on and with no pride
We will call him Joe, we hope he don't mind
Looking at the ground hoping something to find
Carrying all he owned including his home
With a bag in each hand ready to roam
He stood there waiting to go to the next town
Nothing was found but he looked very sad
He got a ride to a wooded place
Said thanks to the driver with a smile on his face
He took an old blanket laid it on the ground
Happy to be home again, the best around
That night he looked at the stars so bright
Giving thanks to live the rest of the night
He got up in the morning with nothing to share
Hoping to talk to someone with love and care.
When sinks my heart in hopeless gloom,
And life can shew no joy for me;
And I behold a yawning tomb,
Where bowers and palaces should be;
In vain you talk of morbid dreams;
In vain you gaily smiling say,
That what to me so dreary seems,
The healthy mind deems bright and gay.
I too have smiled, and thought like you,
But madly smiled, and falsely deemed:
Truth led me to the present view,
I'm waking now -- 'twas then I dreamed.
I lately saw a sunset sky,
And stood enraptured to behold
Its varied hues of glorious dye:
First, fleecy clouds of shining gold;
These blushing took a rosy hue;
Beneath them shone a flood of green;
Nor less divine, the glorious blue
That smiled above them and between.
I cannot name each lovely shade;
I cannot say how bright they shone;
But one by one, I saw them fade;
And what remained whey they were gone?
Dull clouds remained, of sombre hue,
And when their borrowed charm was o'er,
The azure sky had faded too,
That smiled so softly bright before.
So, gilded by the glow of youth,
Our varied life looks fair and gay;
And so remains the naked truth,
When that false light is past away.
Why blame ye, then, my keener sight,
That clearly sees a world of woes,
Through all the haze of golden light,
That flattering Falsehood round it throws?
When the young mother smiles above
The first-born darling of her heart,
Her bosom glows with earnest love,
While tears of silent transport start.
Fond dreamer! little does she know
The anxious toil, the suffering,
The blasted hopes, the burning woe,
The object of her joy will bring.
Her blinded eyes behold not now
What, soon or late, must be his doom;
The anguish that will cloud his brow,
The bed of death, the dreary tomb.
As little know the youthful pair,
In mutual love supremely blest,
What weariness, and cold despair,
Ere long, will seize the aching breast.
And, even, should Love and Faith remain,
(The greatest blessings life can show,)
Amid adversity and pain,
To shine, throughout with cheering glow;
They do not see how cruel Death
Comes on, their loving hearts to part:
One feels not now the gasping breath,
The rending of the earth-bound heart, --
The soul's and body's agony,
Ere she may sink to her repose,
The sad survivor cannot see
The grave above his darling close;
Nor how, despairing and alone,
He then must wear his life away;
And linger, feebly toiling on,
And fainting, sink into decay.
*   *   *
Oh, Youth may listen patiently,
While sad Experience tells her tale;
But Doubt sits smiling in his eye,
For ardent Hope will still prevail!
He hears how feeble Pleasure dies,
By guilt destroyed, and pain and woe;
He turns to Hope -­ and she replies,
'Believe it not -­ it is not so!'
'Oh, heed her not!' Experience says,
'For thus she whispered once to me;
She told me, in my youthful days,
How glorious manhood's prime would be.
When, in the time of early Spring,
Too chill the winds that o'er me pass'd,
She said, each coming day would bring
A fairer heaven, a gentler blast.
And when the sun too seldom beamed,
The sky, o'ercast, too darkly frowned,
The soaking rain too constant streamed,
And mists too dreary gathered round;
'She told me Summer's glorious ray
Would chase those vapours all away,
And scatter glories round,
With sweetest music fill the trees,
Load with rich scent the gentle breeze,
And strew with flowers the ground.
But when, beneath that scorching ray,
I languished, weary, through the day,
While birds refused to sing,
Verdure decayed from field and tree,
And panting Nature mourned with me
The freshness of the Spring.
"Wait but a little while," she said,
"Till Summer's burning days are fled;
And Autumn shall restore,
With golden riches of her own,
And Summer's glories mellowed down,
The freshness you deplore."
And long I waited, but in vain:
That freshness never came again,
Though Summer passed away,
Though Autumn's mists hung cold and chill,
And drooping nature languished still,
And sank into decay.
Till wintry blasts foreboding blew
Through leafless trees -­ and then I knew
That Hope was all a dream.
But thus, fond youth, she cheated me;
And she will prove as false to thee,
Though sweet her words may seem.'
Stern prophet! Cease thy bodings dire -­
Thou canst not quench the ardent fire
That warms the breast of youth.
Oh, let it cheer him while it may,
And gently, gently die away --
Chilled by the damps of truth!
Tell him, that earth is not our rest;
Its joys are empty -- frail at best;
And point beyond the sky.
But gleams of light may reach us here;
And hope the roughest path can cheer:
Then do not bid it fly!
Though hope may promise joys, that still
Unkindly time will ne'er fulfil;
Or, if they come at all,
We never find them unalloyed, -­
Hurtful perchance, or soon destroyed,
They vanish or they pall;
Yet hope itself a brightness throws
O'er all our labours and our woes;
While dark foreboding Care
A thousand ills will oft portend,
That Providence may ne'er intend
The trembling heart to bear.
Or if they come, it oft appears,
Our woes are lighter than our fears,
And far more bravely borne.
Then let us not enhance our doom;
But e'en in midnight's blackest gloom
Expect the rising morn.
Because the road is rough and long,
Shall we despise the skylark's song,
That cheers the wanderer's way?
Or trample down, with reckless feet,
The smiling flowerets, bright and sweet
Because they soon decay?
Pass pleasant scenes unnoticed by,
Because the next is bleak and drear;
Or not enjoy a smiling sky,
Because a tempest may be near?
No! while we journey on our way,
We'll notice every lovely thing;
And ever, as they pass away,
To memory and hope we'll cling.
And though that awful river flows
Before us, when the journey's past,
Perchance of all the pilgrim's woes
Most dreadful -- shrink not -­ 'tis the last!
Though icy cold, and dark, and deep;
Beyond it smiles that blessed shore,
Where none shall suffer, none shall weep,
And bliss shall reign for evermore!
Acton
WEAVE in! weave in, my hardy life!
Weave yet a soldier strong and full, for great campaigns to come;
Weave in red blood! weave sinews in, like ropes! the senses, sight
weave in!
Weave lasting sure! weave day and night the weft, the warp, incessant
weave! tire not!
(We know not what the use, O life! nor know the aim, the end--nor
really aught we know;
But know the work, the need goes on, and shall go on--the death-
envelop'd march of peace as well as war goes on;)
For great campaigns of peace the same, the wiry threads to weave;
We know not why or what, yet weave, forever weave.
Resembles Life what once was held of Light,
Too ample in itself for human sight ?
An absolute Self--an element ungrounded--
All, that we see, all colours of all shade
[Image]By encroach of darkness made ?--
Is very life by consciousness unbounded ?
And all the thoughts, pains, joys of mortal breath,
A war-embrace of wrestling Life and Death ?
Not in thy body is thy life at all
But in this lady's lips and hands and eyes;
Through these she yields thee life that vivifies
What else were sorrow's servant and death's thrall.
Look on thyself without her, and recall
The waste remembrance and forlorn surmise
That liv'd but in a dead-drawn breath of sighs
O'er vanish'd hours and hours eventual.
Even so much life hath the poor tress of hair
Which, stor'd apart, is all love hath to show
For heart-beats and for fire-heats long ago;
Even so much life endures unknown, even where,
'Mid change the changeless night environeth,
Lies all that golden hair undimm'd in death.
lonely
dropped a word to me today
said
you wrote a poem about me thanks
yesterday so
I wanted to explain myself
especially as they’re discussing me right now
in academic though wobbly drawn circles
the older guys say I’m a Concept
and therefore existed
before Shakespeare found a name for me, while
the younger guys
the So-Sures and the Deriders
say I’m merely a Signifier with
an uneasy relationship
with a Signified or
if you’re into that sort of abstruse joke,
a Significant Other
deep in myself
I’m One; that is,
an individual in one sense
but Everything, All One, in another theological
or philosophical or ontological sense
which feels pretty good,
a One without a Second
say the gurus
to illustrate my point
I’m writing this on the pommel of my saddle
riding the range out here where men are men
and no-one mentions that film;
Nashville on my i-pod,
Lonesome himself,
my chosen state of states,
the Iconic All-American
free as a wild mustang in the hills
though sometimes I’m just
Lonely
waiting for that ride into town and
the bar where everyone knows my name
and the barmaid says she waits for me alone
if it’s the third Thursday in the month
Lonesome. Lonely. Close.
That’s the West for you.
And someOne has to do the job.
* * *
(For Will the poet and Will the barber with thanks)
So many scars are slashed across me
tears too many to number have been shed
Pain seems to be my constant companion
Misery always my only friend
Will anyone ever see past my imperfections
or find my spark that has been dormant all these years
Is there somebody in this world who can see through the masks
and discover the beauty that this weary soul posseses
My heart is tired of the rigid solitude
my mind is ready for the sun that only Love can bring
but if this hopeless dream shall ever be fulfilled
only the spirits above seem to know.
i feel that
i am the
only
one...
(alone
in this
accursed crowd...)
Above the lonely market dawn
The sun begins to rise,
And slowly makes its way into
The glowing ember skies,
Amidst the clouds of burning gold
And scarlet which now pass,
Across the heavens high above
My sadness stays alas.
And now I stand there all alone
And watch the morning light,
Creep over all the rooftops and
Consume the dead of night,
It shines upon the sleeping town
Where calmness fills the air,
And lights the dark and empty stalls
With metal frames so bare.
The pigeons rest on rooftops while
The litter's strewn around,
The remnants of the day before
Lie restless on the ground,
The paper cups and cans do roll
Upon the breeze that blows,
And come to rest against a wall
Behind those empty rows.
So still the rising morning now
The shadows long and dark,
The cold and empty marketplace
Deserted and so stark,
I walk alone with heavy heart
Beyond the barren square,
And look towards the church ahead
Its loneliness I share.
There is a street in every town that owns a house
called lonely. Then when your just passing by you might
just say, 'if only.
If only could mean a life time of thoughts but it does'nt cure
a lonely house and all its faults.
Boarded up windows and tiles gone from the roof, graffiti
painted by a rebelious youth.
Such a lonely house and an oh such a tired one,
one that has lost all it's fun.
Stairs and rafters all gone to pot all that is left
is wood worm and dry rot.
No children playing in the garden, it's just a house condemend
by the council without no pardon. Poor lonely house someones
forgotton dream, now describing lifes social scene.
This lonely house stands in the way because their building
a By Pass or a new motorway.
The house called lonely could be any where, in the town, the
country or city square.
Even in your street there's a house called lonely just waiting
for you to say 'if only'
She ran towards me
On her face was a huge glee
She looked at her mummy and plead
“I want him mummy” she said
“I’ll name him Jim
I’ll play with him
I’ll take him for walks
I’ll make him stay away from your frocks
I’ll make him clean
Like a king I’ll let him reign
And Julie will be his queen
I’ll teach him tricks
I’ll take him with me for picnics
I’ll look after him when he is sick
I’ll always be there for him
He’ll be my only Jim
Please mummy
Can I keep him? ”
Her mummy replied with a yes
And I knew me, god really did bless
I stood away from mess
And I bent towards my new mistress
She came towards me
But moved to my right;
Where Rawky, my friend was sitting
She took him in her arms and said
“Thank you mama,
Thanks for letting me keep Jim”
My dreams were shattered
It was not me whom she wanted
I laid my head down
And closed my dark eyes
I knew I was alone
Alone in this lonely world
Because I am just a dog
An ugly and lonely stray dog
A lonely heart sets the table but is she a Milly,
a Betty or a Mabel. Tea, coffee, cakes and ale
but outside there blows a gale. Sash cord windows
rattling like chains, thunder and lighting tormenting her
brains. A frail old lady who always lays up for tea but no
one comes not even her family. As the rain pours down she
gives a little frown as she looks at a photo in her wedding
gown. A picture of love on her wedding day, a day she
never wanted to go away.Now all that's forgotton as the
clouds roll together, will her lonely heart stand up to this
gale force weather. She draws the curtains and says
goodnight to the storm then sits by the fire where its
cosy and warm.
No visitors tonight she says to the cat who lay curled up
on the fireside mat. Again she views her wedding day and
asks the Lord to show her the way.Then she holds the cat
to her lonely heart so that they will never be apart. The dear
old lady died that night and the cat now sits on her burial site.
I'm out in the field
Roaming the vast prairie
Waiting for somebody
To come and visit me
Occasionally I'll see
A car or truck around
I'm stand here just waiting
In my deserted prairie ground
I'm quite a handsome fellow
Just look here for yourself
Sometimes I feel my owner
Has put me on the shelf
I'm good for many things
I could win as a show horse
If someone only entered me
Into a show of course
But pretty soon I know
The kids will come on by
Visit me and ride me
And on my back they'll fly!
A lonely little house
Built many years ago
Is deteriorating now
I thought you’d like to know
Its boards are warped and falling
One by one onto the ground
But mostly in the stillness
You can’t hear a single sound
Except when the cattle are grazing
Around the house at times
A cowbell occasionally clinks
Like a soft ringing of chimes
Its roof now is sinking
Its windows too are gone
Time and weather are not helping
But it knows where it belongs
For the stories this house could tell
Are so many from its prime
It housed a growing family
Once upon a time
I love the frontier houses
That were built to run a farm
Part of the past we inherited
They will always have such charm!
Lonely man,
Lonely world,
And lonely the ways of life.
Fly away oh bird of love
Carry your feathered gift unto another
For my time is short
Gold has more meaning than thou
I have no time for such matters of the heart
Perplexed and not granting the price I need
My call is heard daily
And I heed for its ransom is high
It supplies me with a bed for one
Dinner by candlelight for only one
So what need do I have
For the grave holds only one
It is now old and in need of paint
Sits alone in a field of grass
Poor little lonely one room school
So long ago since it’s had class
If only it could tell us stories
Of the children who sat in its seats
Buzzing with exciting chatter
Never thinking they’d face defeat
School books worn on the corners
For turning down pages a thing to do
Buckets design for their small lunches
Old-fashioned hats that set askew
Oh listen, can you hear the laughter?
Reciting their lessons every day
Recess time in the school yard
It was important to take time to play
But you know, nothing lasts forever
Except, of course, the golden rule
I feel a bit sad when I look upon
This precious lonely one room school!
Alone without a cause.
Alone with no life.
Trying to kill her spirit
That is beginning to die inside.
Alone in her Hell.
Alone in her abyss.
Attempting to end her being
As it pours from her wrists.
Alone without a chance.
Alone with no hope.
Watching the stained blade
As she frees her soul.
Alone in the air.
Alone as she drifts.
Slicing so she can escape
The nightmare's images.
Alone with no will.
Alone with no dreams.
Suicide killing her thoughts,
Silencing her heart's beats.
A lonely tear falls down
A smile turns to frown
Trickles down the cheek
Does not make you weak
A lonely tear escapes
A lifetime of mistakes
A sad and lonely heart
Others broke apart
A lonely tear is dried
So many nights it cried
A friend reached out their hand
And tried to understand
The lonely tear is gone
Life will carry on
With love from a friend
The lonely tears will end
Who will love a lonely traveler
Who traveled far & seeks some rest
I will, said the old tree
My leaves shall shade you from the sun
So you can sleep
And all your darkest secrets
For you I shall keep
Who will take pity in his heart
And who will feed a starving traveler
I will, said the serene lake
For in my unfathomable waters
I have plenty of fish
So eat & drink my friend
As much as you wish
Who will love a lonely traveler
And who will remember his name
I will, said the earth
For all I created returns on to me
From dust were you made
And dust you shall be
How bright it is on a Friday, when I am away from everything
that seems so wrong, when I am here in this haven and all the
birds are in song. It does not matter if it's winter or spring, because
I so look forward to everything.This place takes away the sadness
of life and it's memories that cut right in like a blade from a knife.
These two days a week that have become heaven to me, they
take away that distance of far gone memory.
Then when it is all over the weekend appears and so
does reality and all my fears. Then Tuesday is here again
from a weekend so long, and all the birds  are back in song.
There are pictures that I want to paint with masterly art,
but they are hidden deep within my aged heart.
My life is my fortune because I am not dead yet,
but the loneliness is there and the pattern is set.
My weekends are lonely, but I manage to cope
because I live for the days at The Centre of Hope.
I
A lonely woman under the lonely nights,
That mad young woman.
Are you lonely tonight
Because your heart was broken?
Are you lonely tonight,
Shedding tears from all the emotion?
Please don't be shy.
Just tell me if its okay for me to dropp by.
I'll be the man you've always dreamed of.
I'll hold you close to me and show you love.
I'll help you through your pain and sorrow.
And after you wake up tomorrow,
We'll take a walk near the ocean shore.
As time goes by, I'll love you more and more.
IF God compel thee to this destiny,
To die alone, with none beside thy bed
To ruffle round with sobs thy last word said
And mark with tears the pulses ebb from thee,--
Pray then alone, ' O Christ, come tenderly !
By thy forsaken Sonship in the red
Drear wine-press,--by the wilderness out-spread,--
And the lone garden where thine agony
Fell bloody from thy brow,--by all of those
Permitted desolations, comfort mine !
No earthly friend being near me, interpose
No deathly angel 'twixt my face aud thine,
But stoop Thyself to gather my life's rose,
And smile away my mortal to Divine ! '
A young mother waits lonely,
But with war it didn’t start.
It began with a with a duty,
To country and heart.
With her husband at war,
Things are not as they seem.
Lonely days are without end,
Like its some kind of dream.
It seems even living,
Gets more difficult each day.
And in each daily letter.
Things are harder to say.
No more grand parades,
No excitement to bring.
Even so if there were,
It wouldn’t change a thing.
Alone with no husband,
No family and no friends,
Just another young mother,
Alone in the end.
1/31/05
come and join me, lonely people
this moon is too cold to be seen alone
in midnight, the wind stops
nobody wake on the street and you there lonesome
mind I sit next to you?
come and join me, lonely people
this world's silent and prepares to sleep
in winter, the star sparks
to bring the new eve of snow
care about me lonely?
Cry at midnight,
Look at the falling snow;
Jesus is a cool baby
Who wants everyone
To believe in love.
I’m going to kiss
The December 25th sunrise,
I know that beauty
Will save every lonely soul!
walks into deserted playground
indifferently, pushes memory-go-round
squeak creak
pauses. moves on
She's walking lonely
Contrasting forest shadows
Show up here and there
When times are bad and you have no friends
When the hopes of life lead to dead ends
When all your surroundings have nothing to give
And you can’t imagine life the way you live
When on your knees you bend and you kneel
How lonely do you feel?
When time goes by and you can’t keep pace
When the world laughs at your weary face
When all that you thought had belonged to you
Turns into trash, your happiness too
When life takes the fruit and leaves the peel
How lonely do you feel?
When all those things that once were yours
Go by like the ticking hours
When you’ve got nothing, no one to turn to
When all your people have betrayed you
When you are left with no joy, no zeal
How lonely do you feel?
When life is more of a terror than a test
When you get nothing though you try your best
When you are numb and you find not a wound healing
When you are a bird without any wings
When in the game of life you’ve lost the deal
How lonely do you feel?
When you find a person in such a state
Go up to him, do not wait
Let this question go on like a wheel
Ask him, “How lonely do you feel? ”
I am lonely everyday
as I watch the world
pass my way.
I am lonely in my room
as I stare at the walls
and been thinking of you.
I am lonely outside
as I see you
passing me by.
I am lonely inside
as I see that day
you had died.
When i don't get to hear from you
I feel so lonely
When i don't get the chance to see you
I feel so lonely
When i know you're not there
I feel so lonely
When i'm sad, there's no one to lean on to
I feel so lonely
When i'm thinking silently
I fell so lonely
There's no one that i wanna be with apart being with u
I feel so lonely
There's no one better than u
I feel so lonely
God why do i feel so lonely?
When i know i can't come to u
As anytime, whenever as i want to...?
And why do i feel so angry....
God...
I wish i was with u
Each day's been killing me
Looking at ur pics,
it brought back the memories
Shaking my head
How can i go through?
AzZ, there's no one special except u
and i just wish i could show it to u
Missing u loads
289
I know some lonely Houses off the Road
A Robber'd like the look of—
Wooden barred,
And Windows hanging low,
Inviting to—
A Portico,
Where two could creep—
One—hand the Tools—
The other peep—
To make sure All's Asleep—
Old fashioned eyes—
Not easy to surprise!
How orderly the Kitchen'd look, by night,
With just a Clock—
But they could gag the Tick—
And Mice won't bark—
And so the Walls—don't tell—
None—will—
A pair of Spectacles ajar just stir—
An Almanac's aware—
Was it the Mat—winked,
Or a Nervous Star?
The Moon—slides down the stair,
To see who's there!
There's plunder—where—
Tankard, or Spoon—
Earring—or Stone—
A Watch—Some Ancient Brooch
To match the Grandmama—
Staid sleeping—there—
Day—ratt les—too
Stealth's—slow—
T he Sun has got as far
As the third Sycamore—
Screams Chanticleer
"Who's there"?
And Echoes—Trains away,
Sneer—"Where"!
While the old Couple, just astir,
Fancy the Sunrise—left the door ajar!
In a lonely place,
I encountered a sage
Who sat, all still,
Regarding a newspaper.
He accosted me:
'Sir, what is this? '
Then I saw that I was greater,
Aye, greater than this sage.
I answered him at once,
'Old, old man, it is the wisdom of the age.'
The sage looked upon me with admiration.
I wandered lonely as a cloud
That floats on high o'er vales and hills,
When all at once I saw a crowd,
A host, of golden daffodils;
Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.
Continuous as the stars that shine
And twinkle on the milky way,
They stretched in never-ending line
Along the margin of a bay:
Ten thousand saw I at a glance,
Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.
The waves beside them danced; but they
Out-did the sparkling waves in glee:
A poet could not but be gay,
In such a jocund company:
I gazed- and gazed- but little thought
What wealth the show to me had brought:
For oft, when on my couch I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye
Which is the bliss of solitude;
And then my heart with pleasure fills,
And dances with the daffodils.
I wandered lonely
wherever I did go
never knowing
which way my life would flow.
I wandered lonely
with each day
never knowing
where my life would stay
I wandered lonely
without love
always waiting
for the sign from above.
! 5 January 2008
Like Crusoe, walking by the lonely strand
And seeing a human footprint on the sand,
Have I this day been startled, finding here,
Set in brown mould, and delicately clear,
Spring's footprint--the first crocus of the year!
O sweet invasion! Farewell solitude!
Soon shall wild creatures of the field and wood
Flock from all sides with much ado and stir,
And make of me most willing prisoner!
Lonely are the nights
Lonely are the days
Lonely am I, in so many ways
Lonely are the seasons
Lonely are the years
So lonely am I, that it brings tears.
Lonely is this place
Lonely is my life
Lonely am I, that I reach for a knife
Lonely is this court room
Lonely is my sentence
So lonely am I that I ask for repentance.
While every single human rests,
and the nightly creatures claim their place,
the sweet sound of silence,
combines with the profound darkness of the night.
The chilling breeze is unnoticed,
The howling of the dogs, ignored,
Who's paying attention anyway?
Their dreams are trapping their souls.
In this mistic, magic moment,
everything's forgotten,
Unconsciousness is everyone's sovereign.
And as stars get brighter,
in the dark blue sky,
And as the owls chant,
their ancient song,
He defies the nightly reign,
by staying awake.
He doesn't belong to the world,
He's an outcast from our own race,
Nature rejects him,
Darkness loves him,
People forget him.
In the middle of his beloved night,
between menacing shadows,
and flickering lights,
He lays down on the cold stone,
embraced by silence,
heated by loneliness,
desiring nothing,
expecting no-one.
Immersed in his thoughts,
he suddenly realizes the awful truth,
'This, is death, lonely, mistic, personal'
'This, is death, absolute solitude'
'This, is death, meaningless, obligatory'
'This, is death, though I'm still alive'
'This, is death, for my soul has already died'
There were not many at that lonely place,
Where two scourged hills met in a little plain.
The wind cried loud in gusts, then low again.
Three pines strained darkly, runners in a race
Unseen by any. Toward the further woods
A dim harsh noise of voices rose and ceased.
-- We were most silent in those solitudes --
Then, sudden as a flame, the black-robed priest,
The clotted earth piled roughly up about
The hacked red oblong of the new-made thing,
Short words in swordlike Latin -- and a rout
Of dreams most impotent, unwearying.
Then, like a blind door shut on a carouse,
The terrible bareness of the soul's last house.
Lonely child in the night.
Under heaven's golden lights.
I heard you cry near a stream.
Where maidens sing and sleep and dream.
Lonely child have no fear, the lord will dry your heart-
sick tears.
The night is young, a blue jay flies and whispers softly
please don't cry.
The lord above is free to roam he will help you from his
throne.
The lord loves you true and dear.
He only laughs he never swears.
Lonely child please don't run, beneath the sky, moon or sun.
You parents love you yes they do.
The clouds have dimmed, but no one knew.
Lonely child a lion prowls.
This lion is special he'd dare not bite.
He only hunts game in the wild never children o' lonely child.
Lonely child go back home, cross the deserts
where buffalo roamed.
The lord will lead you safe and clear.
So don't you cry nor shed a tear.
You parents miss your loving touch.
Your loving hugs and summer blush.
They miss the way you'd smile and grin.
You think they wouldn't you're only ten?
Lonely child in the night.
Your parents searched day and night.
For a child in the wild.
Their only son you lonely child.
Lonely child don't you cry.
And don't you dare tell a lie, on the lion in the wild.
He'd never hurt you lonely child.
Your parents love you very much.
So let them feel your loving touch.
Lonely child in the night.
A little dove flew, in fright.
I know you love your parents so.
So run and tell them let them know.
Let them know how you feel.
Let them know your love is real.
Lonely child run or fly.
Soar the heavens and the skies.
Soar the rivers and the streams.
Your smile will make the moonlight, beam.
Lonely child in the night, an angel, there's no need for fright.
I meditate achingly
Her delicate lips
Slowly sipping
Elegant imported wine.
In lonely dreams,
I weep at night
Wishing my hands
Were upon her hips.
Lovely flowers
Blossom in the afternoon;
But while I linger
Unable to see her,
Nothing can make me happy.
Lonely Duck…., where’s your home….? ? ?
I see you swimming in the river all alone….,
Are you sad…., just like me….? ? ?
Or do you have a secret family….? ? ?
At low tide…, you search the muck…,
For a morsel you can eat….,
Lonely Duck….,
Day by day…., I wish you luck….,
Cause you’ve really got it tough….,
Lonely Duck.
I’d like to help you…,
Lonely Duck…,
Even try to buy you lunch for a buck…,
Do you laugh…, or do you cry…? ? ?
When your partner leaves you….,
Do they say the word 'goodbye'….? ? ?
Cause as I watch you…., going nowhere…,
I feel as if you’re wandering endlessly…,
Just like me…, Lonely Duck….,
Just like me.
2000.
It doesn't matter how hard i try
Even though i'll be dyin inside
Look deep within and tell me what you find
I just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
They say nothing's harder than life
And those who live well are welcome in the sky
There's something wrong and i wanna take flight
I just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
Now that you're Gone Away i think i wanna die
I know you can see it, I'm surrounded by light
I tried to tell you i'm fine but that's a lie
I just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
As i see happy people go by
I'm so confused here, sometimes i wanna cry
I'm just a lonely soul lurkin in the lonely night
And i just can't seem to hide
These Lonely Eyes
No one sees and no one tries
to find the pain in lonely eyes
They're strong and bold they hide the tears
that many people cry in years
And yet at night when no one's there
they cry alone but no one cares
Friendless days and last goodbyes
lie in the heart of lonely eyes
Lonely for Paris in spring
All is so faraway to reach,
A heart for joy could sing
What memories should teach;
Eyes are wide in clearing blue
All is such a joy to glide,
It's always up to me and you
What gets soft or amplified.
Be here and become strong
All has its wandering ways,
Have an opportunity get along
Make the best of all the days;
Ripe your feelings and touch
Nothing else is more of hope,
We have everything inasmuch
As we work things out and cope.
The days begin in nothingness
With the cold pleasure at first,
Then there might be a new fresh
A moment of thought we thirst;
A day is asleep for awhile
And then there's some awaken,
Hard in a lost hour to defile
When a mind's occupied or taken.
She curled up on her windowsill,
A lonely girl, crying out her heart,
For the boy that never loved her,
And the friends that just don't care.
She wallows up in her pain,
The girl with the lonely heart,
The girl with no boy to love,
But she didnt see what mattered.
She walked up the hallway, makeup smuged,
Tears running, the people they stared.
Untill now, they never knew,
She was just a lonely girl, with a lonely heart waiting for someone to love.
Lonely girl, visit me on housetops
That weep overlooking the flowerless city;
All the roses reside in your vulnerable eyes
Where I fall asleep for fragile centuries.
There’s a sunlight glint
On dining-room wine bottles;
Even when my love feels
Exhausted and half-spent,
I have another glass to pour for you.
Always refuse to be carried
By the melancholy breeze that whistles
Through the cemetery trees
Sympathetic symphony of tears
And brings you to eternal homes.
There is a lonely God behind my eyes
Who still cries for you who are so far
Away, like a lost child forgotten who she is,
Her identity soothed away by time
So she becomes someone else’s child,
Though my God remembers how she played
Before him once or twice in the early days
Before the world was fully formed—
There is a lonely God behind my eyes
Who screams at things because you can not
Hear him, who hates everything he sees
And wanders far up into the glacial lakes
Of my cranium where he sits on a nameless
Stone and cries your name, the word
That would set him free if he saw you dressed
In the fine syllables your parents christened
You with. There is a lonely God behind
My eyes who has tried to commit suicide
Just because he no longer believed he existed,
Because he knows not a thing to be true
Except that you have walked away, like a
Ghost shed of identity, so now you float down
The roads and caress nameless men thoughtlessly,
Forever and ever forgetting how your love
Was the fulcrum for this creation, how
Everything began to bloom as you opened
Your eyes. There is a lonely God behind my
Eyes who still cries for you who holds the
Key, who has forgotten.
Lonely hours
spent
watching the rain
like tears
on the window pane.
Lonely hours
wishing
you were here with me
as I gaze
over another cup of tea.
Lonely hours
spent
alone, crying
dying slowly
because you are gone.
1979
I am living in the darkness
I feel so scared
I feel unsafe
I dont know what to do
I cry everyday and night
And I feel that I want to cry more and more
Non stop
It really dark here
I hear my mom voice
But I cant reach her
And I hear my friends calling me
But they cant hear me
I dont know what to do
I start screaming and screaming
But suddenly their voices r gone
They leave me all alone in the darkness
I start crying again and again
And suddenly
A light so weak appears, shivering in the dark
I didnt know what it was
I feel so endangered
I saw an extended hand
That wants to grab me towards its unrevealed body
I ran away
I hear a male vioce
Calling my name
Telling me that he wants to save me
I turn and look at him
I thought he was just like an angel
Just like an angel in a human body
With flesh and blood
He took my hand
To show me the way
When I was out of the dark
He gave me a butterfly
He gave me a butterfly
And with it
He filled my heart with hope
Gave me a reason to never give up
Just knowing that some one,
Somewhere
Actually cared about me,
Loved me
That will give me all the strength i need to live
To survive
I am lonely in the world,
Trying to cry,
But no tears are coming out,
Noone else is here to hold me not even my parents,
Trying to forget my past,
As I start over,
In my lonely world.
Lonely is just one word chosen to represent so much
To tell of feelings inside that the senses cannot touch
Lonely can be in the teardrops on a bereaved person’s cheek
Lonely can be in the silence of sorrows too deep to speak
Lonely can haunt a deserted room that Laughter once made proud
Lonely surrounds you when you’re alone or finds you in a crowd
Lonely is heard in echoed footsteps of a departing friend
Lonely penetrates the solitude of nights that will not end
Lonely will not listen to the pleadings of a broken heart
Lonely stays and torments until new Love shatters it apart
Girlfriend, I'm so lonely
I love you and you love me
Girlfriend, I'm so lonely
Please come back, N be my baby
'Repeat Once'
These are the words I cry when my girl left me
I call her, and tell,
Listen, you are my baby
No matter what, you' re # 1 lady
I went to her house, and I tried to see her
Her mom came out, told me I was a dreamer
I didn't take it as a big deal
Because she don't know that my feelings is real
Dear girl, I will love you to the end
No matter what, you will be number one girlfriend.
The shadows hang over the archways,
still and silently fall to the ground,
no echo of footsteps are heard,
as nothing makes a sound.
There is no laughter of lovers,
no hush as they embrace;
nothing disturbs the silence,
of our lonely lover’s lane.
One-day lovers will walk there
know the happiness we knew.
One-day lovers will kiss there,
and know how I felt about you.
They will stop and admire the stillness,
that almost takes the breath away,
and feel the warmth of each other,
near the closing of the day.
Moments that make up my life
seem to be empty
echoes of my own self loathing
plague me
they say I'm a fool
I feel the black dog barking at my door
persistent pain persistent voices
telling me I'm  all wrong
a perfect isolation that tortures me everyday
the self scars  upon my arm
remenants of pain that feels relieving
I speak to people, I feel detached
'normalcy' seems like bullshit
is it me or am I going mad
is it me or are they just full of it
Lonely man you need to
Discover this world which is
Beautiful
Be a part of this world
You are setting your foot on the ground
There are many opportunities out there for you
Do you know what you are looking for?
Lonely man
Grab a tissue paper out of your pocket
And wipe the tears that are falling from your eyes
It must be the cold weather that is doing it to your eyes
You don't know yourself at all
You need to learn to be open to yourself
And to find out who you realy are
This will be a mystery for you to learn about yourself
Lonely man
The night soon begun
And you went to bed right away after I had given you supper
Lonely man
Don't you know it is Christmas?
Lonely man
I don't judge you
Lonely man
I know that you don't judge me
Lonely man
See you tomorrow
Have a good night
Lonely man
Do you believe in God?
Lonely man
Are you a chrisstian?
Loneliest  moment:
Parrot screeches for attention;
The house is silent.
A place by the fire in my old arm chair,
I am alone with no one my fire to share.
The crackling of logs burning bright,
Consoling me in my weary plight.
Shadows playing on ceiling and wall,
Ghosts past and present coming to call.
Outside the wind howls and moans.
Reminding me of my aching bones.
I am in the grip of melancholy deep,
Just past rendezvous I could not keep.
A fleeting glimpse of happiness long past,
With the echo's of words spoken too fast.
A candle in the window to light the way,
To any lost soul that wants to stay.
All are welcome to a place by my fire,
This is my wish my one desire.
Loneliness is what I fear most,
I am willing to play the welcoming host.
Come along guided by my candle's light,
And help me pass this lonely night
I stand alone in darkness,
A rose held in my hand,
The wind rustles in the trees,
As it sweeps across the land.
I wait for your arrival,
I hope it will be soon,
I want to dance with you again,
By the light of the silver moon.
And though you do not miss me,
I hope you won’t forget,
That the little girl you left alone,
Will grow stronger yet.
I hear your footsteps on the ground,
Have you come back for me?
You take the rose from my hands,
And throw it in the sea.
You sneer at me for waiting,
What a pathetic thing to do,
“How could you believe, ” you hiss at me,
“I’d love a thing like you? ”
Where the lonely
Make philosophers laugh
Winter trades insanity
To find
Compressed love
In spring.
When your lonely
I wish you company
When your sad
I wish you happiness
When your heartbroken
I wish you eternal love
When all is chaotic
I wish you inner silence
When all seems empty
I wish you hope.
Lonely is the Heart that never knows true love.
Lonely is the Body never looked on from above.
Lonely is the Mind that lost it's will to dream.
Lonely is the Soul when no one hears it scream.
Lonely is the Heart that beats within the chest.
Lonely is the Body that soon lay down to rest.
Lonely is the Mind that has no place to go.
Lonely is the Soul that heaven does not know.
Lonely Heart, Body, Mind and Soul.
Lonely.
How to describe it?
Maybe a leaf on a snow covered field,
Maybe a log in the middle of a lake,
Maybe a snow flake in the middle of June,
Maybe a tree in a crater on the moon,
Maybe a canoe in the middle of a forest,
Maybe a star in the middle of the day,
Or maybe me, in the middle of you.
I’m not weeping beside lilac trees
Because of my affection for the divine aroma
Of the majestic spring,
But because of the tall goddess I fear
I never again will see.
She moves through my bittersweet memories
Which tenaciously cling
To her brown shoulder-length tresses,
Her happily excited laughter,
Her intelligent conversations,
Her pensive eyes concealing a sadness
That was never revealed to me.
Why should a man be haunted
By a beauty that was never his?
Why was my soul made so appropriately
For such lonely poetry?
The days are long and tears fall like rain
When I’m all alone at sunset.
Please someone, any one,
come scan it up and down.
Groceries, coupons one line.
Anything, if anything of value
you find, just leave one smile.
Dunes of the Sahara cannot muster
the clouds to be generous and
Pour its sorrow-ridden soul
Over the parched lips of the earth.
A hapless and helpless armor of a girl
cannot confide in the heavens
for a shower of tears.
Her eyes stopped feeling,
Her senses now deceive her,
Her thoughts are clouded; her touch is gone,
Her words don’t bear any meaning.
Tears come forth
With pain in the heart.
What do the eyes shed
when there is no tear to fall?
The pleasure of relief does not come
Because the pain remains,
In the sorrow-ridden soul
without a river to run.
Isolation accompanies me,
whispering melodically in my ear..
Confusion is mocking me,
with its mirthless smile, it stands near..
The silence that surrounds me..
Speaks of many fears..
and savage loneliness, a glorious creature..
is gnawing me with her teeth.
These beasts that form my world,
Are my companions who laugh my way..
promising external continuation,
of all this pain i breathe.
Nothing will change, they tell me..
There is no course to improve..!
Truth, hiding in the shadows,
fiction, standing bright before my eyes..
Searching, pushing,
Nothing is as it seems..
We clamour and we fight..
Making fists at the brightness..
wondering what it is..
who it is.. what it means..
If truth should consume us,
If God can live with us..
then why are we soo empty..? ?
Always, with the conundrum of our desires..? ?
Our life..our lackings..? ?
There is darkness, they say..
And there is light..
But sometimes.. fuzzy and faint illuminations.. are all the shades i see..
My life's play is written..
And there are no foot lights..
only actors and actresses..
who are not willing to share the performance..
So i sit alone..
On a dark stage..
without U..! !
When the heron's cry
did not echo in the mist,
did the cliffs hear it?
You say you are lonely.
Are you? Come see MY solitary world.
I am lonely:
Not the ‘generally feeling lonely’ feeling –
You know, the ‘I need a cuddle 'cos I’m feeling a bit lonely today’ feeling;
Or the ‘I’m on my own today so I think I need to call up a friend’ feeling.
No, I mean the terror and depression of cold isolation;
That Black Hole of raw solitude;
The nadir you arrive at after a steady spiral downwards, inwards.
And suffocation by the blanket of social invisibility
Which insidiously greyed out your psyche without your knowing.
You know, when you alight on the platform of endless alcoholic days;
When you’re sprawled vacant and naked in the corner of your filthy room,
Oblivious to the scurrying life outside –
That which doesn’t acknowledge your existence anyway:
That’s lonely.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
My inner sides are twisting,
my heart is losing pace,
my legs are always shaking,
i no longer hold my grace.
My mind is slowly bending,
im crippled in by pain,
my face is red and crumpled,
as my eyes begin to rain.
Im turning from the living,
and im racing to the dead,
im spinning and im falling,
my dyings just ahead.
My heart is burst in agony,
my blood is draining out,
my voice is just a memory,
i no longer scream and shout.
My legs have no more feeling,
i've hit the cold hard ground,
And i'll lie here in a twisted mess,
untill by love im found.............
One Heart
One Soul
One Life
With a lost Soul
Lost Heart
Lost Soul
Lost Life
Felling Like You Don’t Belong
Lonely Heart
Lonely Soul
Lonely Life
Lost and Lonely
I want to show you rainbows
and feel your soft touch on my cheek
when they bring tears to my eyes.
I want to whisper my love to you in the morning
when everything and everyone sleeps
for silence will not harbor lies.
I want to hear your voice when I'm not with you
as if it were my own thoughts
and love was never alone.
I want to see in your eyes the truth inside me
so that everyday that I question
I can look at you and know.
I want to take your loneliness
and paint it over with bright memories
till only love is in view.
Should the stars appear for just one night every thousand years
I would wait a lonely eternity
to see them with just you.
The evening was lonely for me, and I was reading a book till my
heart became dry, and it seemed to me that beauty was a thing
fashioned by the traders in words. Tired I shut the book and
snuffed the candle. In a moment the room was flooded with
moonlight.
Spirit of Beauty, how could you, whose radiance overbrims the
sky, stand hidden behind a candle's tiny flame? How could a few
vain words from a book rise like a mist, and veil her whose voice
has hushed the heart of earth into ineffable calm?
My lonely heart
Holds much despair
Emptiness
Emptiness
Is often found there
My pillow is filled
With tears and fears
Though we've been married
For eighteen years
My lonely heart
Cries night and day
My husband's love
Seems miles away
Though we're together
Day by Day
My lonely heart
Cries night and days
Is there any
Consolation
For my lonely heart?
Come, step
into my sweet, lonely little world!
Hand in hand,
We shall run across the cliffs
against which my emotions crash,
Fly through the capricious clouds
Through which my wild fancies fly,
Swim in the deep waters of the sea
in which lie buried the secrets of my heart,
Sing and dance
to the music of the swaying plants and the whistling winds,
and when weary and hungry,
eat the Forbidden Fruit.........
But perhaps you would wish to run away,
Perhaps you have your own sweet, lonely little world......
But first,
Come, step
into my sweet, lonely little world!
Loneliness is pure and independent
Original and creative
Struggle is noble
And the most corrupt thing in life
Is a group going the wrong way
Not the single struggling soul
One is a lonely number
Two is company
One is the last word in alone
That’s what I’ve been since you left me
One is also in lonesome
The last word in it is me
Alone and lonesome
Seems that is all I’ll ever be
We were perfect together
So everyone said
We had everything going
Only good times ahead
Then without warning
or angry words said
You took the first train in the morning
Leaving me with bad times ahead
4-5 March 1996
Butterflies that flew
in 1932
still held in that summer
by the equisitely neat caligraphy
& cruel glinting pin.
I wipe the dust
from the glass
& they gleam
as if they still dream
of being
alive.
i smash the glass
clutch them in my hand & climb
from attic to roof
& slowly
drawing myself up to
my full height
release them
back into time
smile as they flutter
in the summer breeze
of then & now
their dead eyes
taking it
clouds...trees...skies
their one last lonely flight
back into nothingness
Since the fern can't go to the sink for a drink of
water, I graciously submit myself to the task, bringing two
glasses from the sink.
And so we sit, the fern and I, sipping water together.
Of course I'm more complex than a fern, full of deep
thoughts as I am. But I lay this aside for the easy company
of an afternoon friendship.
I don't mind sipping water with a fern, even though,
had I my druthers, I'd be speeding through the sky for
Stockholm, sipping a bloody mary with a wedge of lime.
And so we sit one lonely afternoon sipping water
together. The fern looking out of its fronds, and I, looking
out of mine . . .
On tears lonely lonely cry
You always shade on my mind
Even you had flied away
Left me alone in the night
On tears lonely lonely cry
No one can take that place
My first love you have to know
You’ve never gone in my heart
Oh why, oh why
I can’t forget your kiss goodbye
I want crying to you
Bring this pain from my life
On tears lonely lonely cry
My first love you have to know
The memory was closed
In my broken lonely heart
On the lonely side of town
When no one else is around
Her brown eyes cry those tears
Over her loves from the past years
Her heart is breaking without a sound
On the lonely side of town
She feels just like a clown
With tears pouring from her eyes
With no rhymn or reason why
But life has turned her upside down
On the lonely side of town
Her head is hanging down
Shaking from side to side
With not much left of her pride
There on that lonely side of town
On the lonely side of town
She is lost behind her frown
But in ways she may never know
Her love fine it's way to show
And by her love she is bound
On the lonely side of town
You can hear the old train sound
Reminding her of those days
When life glowed with brighter rays
Even on that lonely side of town
On the lonely side of town
She is loved by leaps and bounds
Even though she may not see
Love'S the only thing that's free
And it creaps up on her without a sound
O So Lonely
Are the days gone by.
When others enter your life
Then you push them by.
O So Lonely
When you were in control.
To love them or leave them
You were ever so bold.
O So Lonely
While you sit alone.
No one is there
To make your house a home.
O So Lonely
After all the hearts you break.
Did you ever think it was you
Who you'd really forsake?
O So Lonely
When life was just a dare.
You didn't take time to love
You didn't try to care.
O So Lonely
Have you learned the rule?
That its not just about you
But it does take two.
O So Lonely
Why sit and contemplate?
While others enjoy life
Its never too late.
As I started sipping
my daily lovely coffee
A race of memories just began in my mind
of old days, the hard and the easy
And looking at myself now with a tear in my eye
just to find myself sad and lonely
And as I walk down that antique street
where my old little house was meant to be
It feels hard to breathe just to know
that I am out of it now and maybe
maybe forever I would be like a rover
that tells stories of how sad I am and lonely
Those stairs I used to go up and down
everyday in fast rhythm used to be happy
In my room I used to stay most of the time
never thought that i would live in a tragedy
But words are not useful now
for sad I am and lonely
Though poverty was my company long ago
but riches couldn't bring back honey
The honey I saw in my sweet old days
Days of the poverty and agony
Believe me my friend riches won't give you a thing
But to make you sad and lonely
Speak of the North! A lonely moor
Silent and dark and tractless swells,
The waves of some wild streamlet pour
Hurriedly through its ferny dells.
Profoundly still the twilight air,
Lifeless the landscape; so we deem
Till like a phantom gliding near
A stag bends down to drink the stream.
And far away a mountain zone,
A cold, white waste of snow-drifts lies,
And one star, large and soft and lone,
Silently lights the unclouded skies.
When you're with him
I lose my mind
For your love is what
I've struggled to find
From the highest mountain
To the valleys below
Wherever your love existed
My heart would follow
But now you're with him
And I've lost my way
Without you my life is shrouded
In darkness all day
The object of your desire
Lies far past me
For I am blind
And he can see
I am eternally blinded
From reality
For your love of me
Is just a fantasy
I toss and turn
When I struggle to rest
For how can I rest
When I'm not the best
To be the best in your eyes
Is my only goal
To be the tree
In your flowering atoll
I will best him
I'll find a way
I'll show you the true power
Of love someday
But now I lie
In the shadows, alone
Making amends
And peacefully atoning
For I know what I've done
And what I plan to do
All for the sake of you
So forever I struggle
To be the best in your eyes
Though I know your love
Is nothing but lies
Fantasy, reality
Blurred within
Maybe you are better off with him
After a long season of heartbreak
And months of indecision,
After insufferable nights of tears
Reflecting on kisses once placed
On your gentle moonlight face,
My broken heart receives crystal clear vision:
When love has ended
And friendship wanes,
One must depart the city
Of all his shattered dreams
And find a new place
To begin again,
Unknown paths to tread
Where there is no fear
Of finding a perfumed handkerchief
You once kept
Or of running into a mutual friend
Who saw him weep
The last lonely night
He walked upon your street.
The lonely Angel cries to herself,
Her head is hung low and her body is still,
She calls out into to darkness and hears her voice echo,
But there is no one else in her empty world,
She locks herself in afraid of what might happen,
Closes the illusive curtains and shuts the door to her feelings,
Her beautiful face has grown old with crying,
The perfect smile painted on her lips has been wiped off,
And her dreams and aspirations have all been erased.
She waits patiently for her walls of solid emotion to tear,
Her cares are not for money, power or enlightenment,
Instead love and care is all that seeks,
Memories whispered gently into her ears is all she has for company,
She lays naked with no clothes to protect her,
Her prayers are always for a light to guide her,
A small crevice created by her hope lets warm air upon her,
She sometimes huddles against this unique warmth,
And she knows that if she lets go of hope she will be cold forever.
Oh, how I missed you, Lonely Beach,
Where I have left my soul,
The rugged rocks surround me,
I sit there, lost, alone.
Before me is the ocean,
The stormy Irish Sea,
It comes to me, I’m part of you,
And know, you’re part of me.
You send a wave to kiss my feet,
And then you back away,
You tantalise, you hypnotise,
You hold me, make me sway.
I grip the rock to steady me,
Lest I fall in too deep,
I’m lost in love for you now,
The way back now, so steep.
Another wave comes crashing,
Bestows a gentle kiss,
And now I get to taste you,
You linger on my lips.
I’m filled now with a passion,
For you, I can’t ignore,
I’m satisfied, contented,
And leave you on the shore.
In the cold I will rise, I will bathe
In waters of ice; myself
Will shiver, and shrive myself,
Alone in the dawn, and anoint
Forehead and feet and hands;
I will shutter the windows from light,
I will place in their sockets the four
Tall candles and set them aflame
In the grey of the dawn; and myself
Will lay myself straight in my bed,
And draw the sheet under my chin.
So Eden was deserted, and at eve
Into the quiet place God came to grieve.
His face was sad, His hands hung slackly down
Along his robe; too sorrowful to frown
He paced along the grassy paths and through
The silent trees, and where the flowers grew
Tended by Adam. All the birds had gone
Out to the world, and singing was not one
To cheer the lonely God out of His grief --
The silence broken only when a leaf
Tapt lightly on a leaf, or when the wind,
Slow-handed, swayed the bushes to its mind.
And so along the base of a round hill,
Rolling in fern, He bent His way until
He neared the little hut which Adam made,
And saw its dusky rooftree overlaid
With greenest leaves. Here Adam and his spouse
Were wont to nestle in their little house
Snug at the dew-time: here He, standing sad,
Sighed with the wind, nor any pleasure had
In heavenly knowledge, for His darlings twain
Had gone from Him to learn the feel of pain,
And what was meant by sorrow and despair, --
Drear knowledge for a Father to prepare.
There he looked sadly on the little place;
A beehive round it was, without a trace
Of occupant or owner; standing dim
Among the gloomy trees it seemed to Him
A final desolation, the last word
Wherewith the lips of silence had been stirred.
Chaste and remote, so tiny and so shy,
So new withal, so lost to any eye,
So pac't of memories all innocent
Of days and nights that in it had been spent
In blithe communion, Adam, Eve, and He,
Afar from Heaven and its gaudery;
And now no more! He still must be the God
But not the friend; a Father with a rod
Whose voice was fear, whose countenance a threat,
Whose coming terror, and whose going wet
With penitential tears; not evermore
Would they run forth to meet Him as before
With careless laughter, striving each to be
First to His hand and dancing in their glee
To see Him coming -- they would hide instead
At His approach, or stand and hang the head,
Speaking in whispers, and would learn to pray
Instead of asking, 'Father, if we may.'
Never again to Eden would He haste
At cool of evening, when the sun had paced
Back from the tree-tops, slanting from the rim
Of a low cloud, what time the twilight dim
Knit tree to tree in shadow, gathering slow
Till all had met and vanished in the flow
Of dusky silence, and a brooding star
Stared at the growing darkness from afar,
While haply now and then some nested bird
Would lift upon the air a sleepy word
Most musical, or swing its airy bed
To the high moon that drifted overhead.
'Twas good to quit at evening His great throne,
To lay His crown aside, and all alone
Down through the quiet air to stoop and glide
Unkenned by angels: silently to hide
In the green fields, by dappled shades, where brooks
Through leafy solitudes and quiet nooks
Flowed far from heavenly majesty and pride,
From light astounding and the wheeling tide
Of roaring stars. Thus does it ever seem
Good to the best to stay aside and dream
In narrow places, where the hand can feel
Something beside, and know that it is real.
His angels! silly creatures who could sing
And sing again, and delicately fling
The smoky censer, bow and stand aside
All mute in adoration: thronging wide,
Till nowhere could He look but soon He saw
An angel bending humbly to the law
Mechanic; knowing nothing more of pain,
Than when they were forbid to sing again,
Or swing anew the censer, or bow down
In humble adoration of His frown.
This was the thought in Eden as He trod --
. . . It is a lonely thing to be a God.
So long! afar through Time He bent His mind,
For the beginning, which He could not find,
Through endless centuries and backwards still
Endless forever, till His 'stonied will
Halted in circles, dizzied in the swing
Of mazy nothingness. -- His mind could bring
Not to subjection, grip or hold the theme
Whose wide horizon melted like a dream
To thinnest edges. Infinite behind
The piling centuries were trodden blind
In gulfs chaotic -- so He could not see
When He was not who always had To Be.
Not even godly fortitude can stare
Into Eternity, nor easy bear
The insolent vacuity of Time:
It is too much, the mind can never climb
Up to its meaning, for, without an end,
Without beginning, plan, or scope, or trend
To point a path, there nothing is to hold
And steady surmise: so the mind is rolled
And swayed and drowned in dull Immensity.
Eternity outfaces even Me
With its indifference, and the fruitless year
Would swing as fruitless were I never there.
And so for ever, day and night the same,
Years flying swiftly nowhere, like a game
Played random by a madman, without end
Or any reasoned object but to spend
What is unspendable -- Eternal Woe!
O Weariness of Time that fast or slow
Goes never further, never has in view
An ending to the thing it seeks to do,
And so does nothing: merely ebb and flow,
From nowhere into nowhere, touching so
The shores of many stars and passing on,
Careless of what may come or what has gone.
O solitude unspeakable! to be
For ever with oneself! never see
An equal face, or feel an equal hand,
To sit in state and issue reprimand,
Admonishment or glory, and to smile
Disdaining what has happenèd the while!
O to be breast to breast against a foe!
Against a friend! to strive and not to know
The laboured outcome: love nor be aware
How much the other loved, and greatly care
With passion for that happy love or hate,
Nor know what joy or dole was hid in fate.
For I have ranged the spacy width and gone
Swift north and south, striving to look upon
An ending somewhere. Many days I sped
Hard to the west, a thousand years I fled
Eastwards in fury, but I could not find
The fringes of the Infinite. Behind
And yet behind, and ever at the end
Came new beginnings, paths that did not wend
To anywhere were there: and ever vast
And vaster spaces opened -- till at last
Dizzied with distance, thrilling to a pain
Unnameable, I turned to Heaven again.
And there My angels were prepared to fling
The cloudy incense, there prepared to sing
My praise and glory -- O, in fury I
Then roared them senseless, then threw down the sky
And stamped upon it, buffeted a star
With my great fist, and flung the sun afar:
Shouted My anger till the mighty sound
Rung to the width, frighting the furthest bound
And scope of hearing: tumult vaster still,
Throning the echo, dinned My ears, until
I fled in silence, seeking out a place
To hide Me from the very thought of Space.
And so, He thought, in Mine own Image I
Have made a man, remote from Heaven high
And all its humble angels: I have poured
My essence in his nostrils: I have cored
His heart with My own spirit; part of Me,
His mind with laboured growth unceasingly
Must strive to equal Mine; must ever grow
By virtue of My essence till he know
Both good and evil through the solemn test
Of sin and retribution, till, with zest,
He feels his godhead, soars to challenge Me
In Mine own Heaven for supremacy.
Through savage beasts and still more savage clay,
Invincible, I bid him fight a way
To greater battles, crawling through defeat
Into defeat again: ordained to meet
Disaster in disaster; prone to fall,
I prick him with My memory to call
Defiance at his victor and arise
With anguished fury to his greater size
Through tribulation, terror, and despair.
Astounded, he must fight to higher air,
Climb battle into battle till he be
Confronted with a flaming sword and Me.
So growing age by age to greater strength,
To greater beauty, skill and deep intent:
With wisdom wrung from pain, with energy
Nourished in sin and sorrow, he will be
Strong, pure and proud an enemy to meet,
Tremendous on a battle-field, or sweet
To walk by as friend with candid mind.
--Dear enemy or friend so hard to find,
I yet shall find you, yet shall put My breast
In enmity or love against your breast:
Shall smite or clasp with equal ecstasy
The enemy or friend who grows to Me.
The topmost blossom of his growing I
Shall take unto Me, cherish and lift high
Beside myself upon My holy throne: --
It is not good for God to be alone.
The perfect woman of his perfect race
Shall sit beside Me in the highest place
And be my Goddess, Queen, Companion, Wife,
The rounder of My majesty, the life
Of My ambition. She will smile to see
Me bending down to worship at her knee
Who never bent before, and she will say,
'Dear God, who was it taught Thee how to pray?"
And through eternity, adown the slope
Of never-ending time, compact of hope,
Of zest and young enjoyment, I and She
Will walk together, sowing jollity
Among the raving stars, and laughter through
The vacancies of Heaven, till the blue
Vast amplitudes of space lift up a song,
The echo of our presence, rolled along
And ever rolling where the planets sing
The majesty and glory of the King.
Then conquered, thou, Eternity, shalt lie
Under My hand as little as a fly.
I am the Master: I the mighty God
And you My workshop. Your pavilions trod
By Me and Mine shall never cease to be,
For you are but the magnitude of Me,
The width of My extension, the surround
Of My dense splendour. Rolling, rolling round,
To steeped infinity, and out beyond
My own strong comprehension, you are bond
And servile to My doings. Let you swing
More wide and ever wide, you do but fling
Around the instant Me, and measure still
The breadth and proportion of My Will.
Then stooping to the hut -- a beehive round --
God entered in and saw upon the ground
The dusty garland, Adam, (learned to weave)
Had loving placed upon the head of Eve
Before the terror came, when joyous they
Could look for God at closing of the day
Profound and happy. So the Mighty Guest
Rent, took, and placed the blossoms in His breast.
'This,' said He gently, 'I shall show My queen
When she hath grown to Me in space serene,
And say "'twas worn by Eve."' So, smiling fair,
He spread abroad His wings upon the air.
There is a word I long to say
To someone who is far away.
That word is- Mother.
There is a hand I long to touch
Of someone whom I love so much
The gentle hand of - Mother
There a two lips I long to kiss
Of someone whom I always miss
The tender lips of - Mother
Oh come to me and ease my pain
Tell me I'm waiting not in vain
Hear my lonely cry - Mother
He calls it love working paying the bills
Her staying at home alone, with no skills
The coldness in their house, like an artic freeze
She tries her best to him appease
Day in day out with the routine
She stays to herself, not often seen
The blinds stay closed, not much light
Shes accepted this, it is to be her plight
He gets off work, comes home and watches t.v.
The house so quiet, just him and she
They go to bed, each on thier own side
He no longer cares to hold his bride
In the morning he will go back to work
Once again she will be alone, where bad thoughts lurk!
This thing that they call love
That so many are in search of
What some they may find and some lose in time
Only the lonely dream of
The lonely dream only of it one day in their lives
When that day comes they won't toss it aside
The lonely they know and will cherish so
For only the lonely get it right
Love of so many descriptions
The art every part of the heart
Love when it comes to the lonely of one
They will hold on and believe not let it fall apart
I know that since I have found you
Somehow you reached out and found me
I know cause I know where it is I have been
The lonely has allowed me to believe
This thing that they do call love
This thing that so many are in search of
This thing that only the lonely they dream
I know, I once dreamed of your touch.
copyright 2004 Bill Simmons
aka BillWilliamStar@aol.com
She sat alone staring into the dark
Into the blue tinged light
Coming from that magical box
In front of her
Poem submitted-
Comments read-
Messages sent-
Poems submitted-
Comments read-
Messages sent-
On and on it went
In the dark
Through the night
To daylight
Had she known...
Would she have cared?
That the feedback she received
From a soul provider
Sat just in front of her
And glowed deviously
With a soft blue light
The computers had won the war...
Three days before...
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the walks of life
No other soul as his companion
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the daybreak
He does his duties
In the walks of life
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the life
He meets many other souls
Who comes to be
Unfit for the lonely soul
The lonely soul wanders
As the days pass by
The lonely soul became
More lonely, with no other
souls as his companion
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the walks of life
The lonely soul decides
Not to die, but to face
Life in all its hardships
The lonely soul wanders
This is to show that despite people may feel lonely, they truly wallow in their own pity.How pathetic.
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the walks of life
No other soul as his companion
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the daybreak
He does his duties
In the walks of life
The lonely soul wanders
Alone in the life
He meets many other souls
Who come to be
Unfit for the lonely soul
The lonely soul wanders
School is over. It is too hot
to walk at ease. At ease
in light frocks they walk the streets
to while the time away.
They have grown tall. They hold
pink flames in their right hands.
In white from head to foot,
with sidelong, idle look--
in yellow, floating stuff,
black sash and stockings--
touching their avid mouths
with pink sugar on a stick--
like a carnation each holds in her hand--
they mount the lonely street.
Among the brambles of a shattered heart lies my soul in crags,
Among the shambles of life torn apart lies my spirit in rags;
Tears streaming down my face as snakes crawl on my body lifeless
Leaving amigos and flamingos away at the home, oh life pointless.
Ticktock! All I can hear is the ticking of the clock, yackety-yak!
The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
I climbed onto the gravel bed in the rain, lo lonely brain tames!
By the dawn from the ocean to every lane, it climbs, dookie salad!
In the noon from flat places to heaven and hell, A pensive ballad;
At dusk, in open air of beach I loitered singing rhyme ugly James.
Ticktock! All I can hear is ticking of the clock - yackety-yak!
The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
Hardy-har-har! Hold a pebble, a feather or a leaf in your hand
It will say I am lonely; I can't ride, I want to hide in the sand;
I'm single; oh my gosh! I'm sitting between my brother the mountain
My sister the sea - together threesome we live among soulless men.
Ticktock! All I can hear is the ticking of the clock, yackety-yak!
The lonely train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
I'm an air castle with dreams empty and screams plenty with terror
I don't want to be alone in the dark in a spine-chilling horror.
Then, the moon is a friend for the lonely man as flamingo cheers,
Bingo! Stars in the Galaxy are his companions as nature shares.
Ticktock! All I can hear is ticking of the clock, yackety-yak!
The lone train on the lonely track with 24 coaches painted black.
WHERE the ironbarks are hanging leaves disconsolate and pale,
Where the wild vines o’er the ranges their spilt cream of blossom trail,
By the door of the bark humpey, by the rotting blood-wood gates,
On the river-bound selection, there a lonely woman waits,
Waits and watches gilded sunrise glow behind the mountain peak,
Hears the water hens’ shrill piping, in the rushes by the creek,
And by the sullen stormy sunsets, when the anxious cattle call,
Sees the everlasting gum-trees closing round her like a wall.
With the hunger of her bosom notes the wild birds seek their mates,
All alone and heavy-hearted, there the lonely woman waits.
Where the tall brown city buildings loom against a cloud-flecked sky,
Where along the curving tramlines brightly varnished cars rush by,
Where the call of petty traders echoes down the dusty street,
And forever comes the beating of the many passing feet,
Where the bamboo reeds are whispering by the green park’s iron gates,
By the muslin-curtained window, there a lonely woman waits.
Where the white caps lash the sea-wall, and the great waves thunder by,
Where the grey rains sweep the beaches underneath a sodden sky,
Where the swift-winged gull flies landward, and the fisher bides at home,
When the long Pacific reaches are a seething stretch of foam,
Where the empty boat drifts seawards, by the ocean’s sand-flanked gates,
In the weather-boarded cottage, there a lonely woman waits.
Where the river boats are calling, where the railway engine shrieks,
Or where only wild bird liltings echo from the reedy creeks,
Where the grey waves grieve to landward, and a wet wind beats the seas,
Or where pearl-white moths flit slowly through the dropping wattle-trees,
By the high verandah pillars, by the rotting bloodwood gates,
Crowded town or dreary seaboard, everywhere some woman waits!
Unhappy about some far off things
That are not my affair, wandering
Along the coast and up the lean ridges,
I saw in the evening
The stars go over the lonely ocean,
And a black-maned wild boar
Plowing with his snout on Mal Paso Mountain.
The old monster snuffled, "Here are sweet roots,
Fat grubs, slick beetles and sprouted acorns.
The best nation in Europe has fallen,
And that is Finland,
But the stars go over the lonely ocean,"
The old black-bristled boar,
Tearing the sod on Mal Paso Mountain.
"The world's in a bad way, my man,
And bound to be worse before it mends;
Better lie up in the mountain here
Four or five centuries,
While the stars go over the lonely ocean,"
Said the old father of wild pigs,
Plowing the fallow on Mal Paso Mountain.
"Keep clear of the dupes that talk democracy
And the dogs that talk revolution,
Drunk with talk, liars and believers.
I believe in my tusks.
Long live freedom and damn the ideologies,"
Said the gamey black-maned boar
Tusking the turf on Mal Paso Mountain.
Submitted by Holt
(What the Mendicant Said )
The moon's a monk, unmated,
Who walks his cell, the sky.
His strength is that of heaven-vowed men
Who all life's flames defy.
They turn to stars or shadows,
They go like snow or dew—
Leaving behind no sorrow—
Only the arching blue.
When you become too lonely and sad,
That is when you disappear
Without a trace:
Ambrose Bierce became
A wandering ghost in Mexico;
Hart Crane, probably in tears,
Jumped into the ocean;
Sylvia Plath kissed her children
And then was no more.
So every day I’m singing one more hymn
And saying one more prayer,
I’m learning to weather storms.
I love Jesus,
But I don’t want to see him too soon.
We are always coming lonely
And trying to be together
For you and you only
Are flickering like the weather
And dreams are too far away
To be of any reality
Like a morning that meets a day
Only to be in its company
The night is for both of us
Trying to find times thread
And trying to catch up with every loss
That comes to be with us instead
Like love that grows older
And catches us in our while
Time is its many folder
And every its timeless style
We are always coming to change
And letting the weather conclude
Every its beating blanches
That gives every season its mood
We cannot forget the crying
In the hours many singing tone
As this time's season is dying
And we again shall be alone
Each day you wake up with a frown
Rumours keep spreading around town
That you’re suffering a mental breakdown
A solitary walk you walk
A lonely talk you talk
As you wander as a lonely
You wander as a lonely at night
You wander as a lonely on sight
You wander as a lonely at day
You wander as a lonely and pray
You wander as a lonely each day
Slow down, slow down
Shut down, shut down
Shutdown the lonely before you drown
Embrace your friends with warmth
They can give you assistance
Deliver you from your lonely existence
You keep fighting love
Bending it around like a curve
With your glowering face
Reserving only a lonely place,
Halting happiness to arrive in your life
Do you ever stop to wonder?
Do you ever stop to ponder?
Are you the reason for the lonely blunders?
Slow down, slow down
Shut down, shut down
Remove from your head that lonely crown
You wander endlessly as a lonely
Searching for a spot called homely
But your face is missing that vital smile called lovely
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
Check out my latest 'Justice & If I were a girl'
to compromise
one suffers a certain loss
I've lost a face once, and then a mouth
and then my feet
they cut me to invisible pieces
until what is left of me
is my voice
the one that talks to you
now
but this one will not be speaking
for any compromise
it will speak about
the truth
the loss, that certain loss
that you can only see
in my words
here, they who are with me in the house
where only a part of me thrives
cannot ascertain it
the smile of the lips are still there
but there is nothing there anymore
about myself.
959
A loss of something ever felt I—
The first that I could recollect
Bereft I was—of what I knew not
Too young that any should suspect
A Mourner walked among the children
I notwithstanding went about
As one bemoaning a Dominion
Itself the only Prince cast out—
Elder, Today, a session wiser
And fainter, too, as Wiseness is—
I find myself still softly searching
For my Delinguent Palaces—
And a Suspicion, like a Finger
Touches my Forehead now and then
That I am looking oppositely
For the site of the Kingdom of Heaven—
I remember speaking to you,
Once upon some months ago.
Once upon a fairy tale;
Once upon the fairest day.
Niceness could be compared to none,
And the first of all could be spent.
As I glanced in your gray direction,
I wished I could know you better,
And I wish I would have visited,
And I wish I could reverse everything;
But the future has spoken,
And you were swept away from me.
I wish I would have known you better,
And I wish I would have visited,
But the virus grew inside of you,
And you were swept away from me.
I would have it other ways.
I would have myself infected for you.
Your virus I would spread for you,
Upon my body, my hopes, my dreams.
Your niceness could be compared to none,
And God, I wish I had visited you.
We spoke like sweet rivers,
Radiant in the sun and forever flowing;
Until the virus grew inside of you,
And you were swept away from me
And now live in my dreams,
For you will never be forgotten, My Uncle.
To live with a loss so great
After time of month-long waiting
Would invite such natural rage,
That a child, a babe of no age
Who was wanted and loved so much
Could die, and would leave me in so much
Pain,  if Heaven's love did not make
Plain  to me that my dear child faces
A place of tender peace, and clutching
Him tightly is Eternal Life, touchingly
Singing his lullaby needs. All praise
Be if my human heart views these ways
As right. Then I can cope, wait to see
Him again, sure he has not ceased to be.
When I did name her little lost one, she
Brushed from her eyes the precious drops of love,
As if her memory with his sweet name shaken
Trembled, and shed its dew.
I envy not thy mortal triumphs, Death,
(Thou enemy to Vertue as to Breath)
Nor do I wonder much, nor yet complain
The weekly numbers by thy arrow slain.
The whole world is thy Factory, and we
Like traffick driven and retail'd by Thee:
And where the springs of life fill up so fast,
Some of the waters needs must run to waste.
It is confest, yet must our griefs dispute
That which thine own conclusion doth refute
Ere we begin. Hearken! for if thy ear
Be to thy throat proportion'd, thou canst hear.
Is there no order in the work of Fate?
Nor rule, but blindly to anticipate
Our growing seasons? or think'st thou 'tis just,
To sprinkle our fresh blossomes with thy dust,
Till by abortive funerals, thou bring
That to an Autumn Nature meant a Spring?
Is't not enough for thee that wither'd age
Lies the unpiti'd subject of thy rage;
But like an ugly Amorist, thy crest
Must be with spoyles of Youth and Beauty drest?
In other Camps, those which sate down to day
March first to morrow, and they longest stay
Who last came to the service: But in thine,
Onely confusion stands for discipline.
We fall in such promiscuous heaps, none can
Put any diff'rence 'twixt thy Rear or Van;
Since oft the youngest lead thy Files. For this
The grieved world here thy accuser is,
And I a Plaintiff, 'mongst those many ones
Who wet this Ladies Urn with zealous moanes;
As if her ashes quick'ning into years
Might be again embody'd by our tears
But all in vain; the moisture we bestow
Shall make assoon her curled Marble grow,
As render heat, or motion to that blood,
Which through her veins branch't like an azure flood;
Whose now still Current in the grave is lost,
Lock't up, and fetter'd by eternal frost.
Desist from hence, doting Astrology!
To search for hidden wonders in the sky;
Or from the concourse of malignant starres
Foretel diseases gen'ral as our warres:
What barren droughts, forerunners of lean dearth:
Threaten to starve the plenty of the earth:
What horrid forms of darkness must affright
The sickly world, hast'ning to that long night
Where it must end. If there no Portents are,
No black eclipses for the Kalendar,
Our times sad Annals will remembred be
Ith' loss of bright Northumberland and Thee:
Two Starres of Court, who in one fatal year
By most untimely set dropt from their Sphear.
Shee in the winter took her flight, and soon
As her perfections reach't the point of Noon,
Wrapt in a cloud, contracted her wisht stay
Unto the measure of a short-liv'd day.
But Thou in Summer, like an early Rose
By Deaths cold hand nipp'd as Thou didst disclose,
Took'st a long day to run that narrow stage,
Which in two gasping minutes summ'd thy age.
And, as the fading Rose, when the leaves shed
Lies in its native sweetness buried,
Thou in thy vertues bedded and inherst
Sleep'st with those odours thy pure fame disperst.
Where till that Rising Morn thou must remain,
In which thy wither'd flowres shall spring again.
And greater beauties thy wak't body vest
Then were at thy departure here possest.
So with full eyes we close thy vault. Content
(With what thy loss bequeaths us) to lament,
And make that use of thy griev'd funerall,
As of a Chrystall broken in the fall;
Whose pitti'd fractures gather'd up, and set,
May smaller Mirrours for Thy Sex beget;
There let them view themselves, untill they see
The end of all their glories shew'n in Thee.
Whil'st in the truth of this sad tribute, I
Thus strive to Canonize thy Memory.
There was nothing violent
about the death of your thoughts
from my memories.
We moved so very imperceptibly
to the far ends of a bed, slowly,
we once made love on.
Enamel etches on my skin your passion
Welts, spots of blood sprouting
reminding you of a crime, glistening
I espy right over your heart tattooed
with some blade, scratched
Disjointed nicks joined to form a name
The faceless unknown
That you mouth in passion, pain.
I sense the person
in every moment shared with you.
In the pauses between words too
The name flitting, an alphabet fallen off a word
seeking, fitting into sentences in fleeting
Lonely, to find its niche wishing
Love is an agony revisited, uninvited
when even space and time conspired
maintaining in our hearts distant expanses
Is there anything violent
about the death of thoughts of us,
except the wounds that we passed along...
Do I have an answer to loss?
Do you?
The answer to loss! ! ! ! !
I am so lucky I got to know the precious person.
I got to see their beautiful heart and their grace.
I got to enjoy their presence.
That I can treasure.and keep special in my heart.
And maybe loss is just that – loss.
But just as we have loss,
We have all the special memories
That we can keep special in our minds forever,
And that is something that will never die.
So maybe the answer to loss! ! ! is to treasure the memories
Of our loved one! !
For as long as we have a memory
We never lose! ! to loss.
Written by salma torrez.
Copyright.
A mother to her son is no more a repute
If her modesty is suspected.
A wife to her husband is no more cute
If her fidelity is suspected.
A daughter to her father is no more worth
If her virginity is suspected.
To gain their love and affection,
A woman has to sublimate her passion.
13.09.2007
I remember the rain
Drenching from the blinds
Making sound of silence, dripping outside...
I remember the road of struggle
And the thorns embracing our feet
Saying songs of vengeance...revenge...revenge...
I remember the armors, the hearts of no mercy
The hands of swords...the masks of enemies
remember the weeping wives from their soldier’s men
Leaving home for wars...leaving families for peace
I remember the cloudy skies
Where everyone waits the rain
Wash their bloody faces and soul
quenches their spirits wounded thirst
I remember the roofs where stars seen above
Where moon shines dimly shy
To hungry sleepless creatures below..
I remember a story that has a beginning...has an end
It has traces and marks
Of unwanted truths of faith
The legend sometimes destroyed
From the hands of creator
but will they sleep for decades
Century?
Or millennium?
without your family life would be cold
without your family the tears will flow
the more you think the more you know
how you need your family
in order to grow
but what seems to me
what seems to be
my family is the cause of
all my misery
i take it all in
but let none out
the world is so cold so so cold
yes i try i try so hard
but the more i try the more i cry
because i can never reach your
level for me
it's just to much to much to handle
but without my family
i would be cold
so i have to deal
with the one i own
I: Loss
It’s been three years that we’ve gone out
And now you chose to let me go
You crushed my dreams, you burnt my soul
—A picture that’s been torn apart
Your smile haunts my memories
The words you spoke still lingering
Among the crystal mist I breathe
—I wish that you were here with me
And love will never be the same
If you’re not here to hold my hand
I’ve tried so hard to let you go
—I’m sure you’re never gonna know
And for so long I know I’ll mourn
Because of love that lives no more
You ripped my heart with shards of glass
And all the blood gushes out fast
Our love was once a rainbow
But now it is a raging storm
And blue had made me think of peace
—but now, it makes me mourn
The waters upon which we laid
Were troubled by the raging waves
The lifeboat just had room for one
And so you’ve thrown me overboard
And now you have become old news
And somehow, still, I’m feeling blue
The night has set upon our love
I should’ve known what was to come
Routine is now routine no more
The days drag on. Condition: poor
My heart still beats, but without you
It’s empty—I drank all of you
I wish I didn’t waste my time
With what would never end up mine
Why fate has slapped me in the face
—by taking all my joy away?
II: Grieving
Tears fall slowly to the ground
The dripping melancholy sound
An empty room, a broken heart
The pieces scattered in the dark
I lay upon this empty bed
The lust once strong was struck down dead
The hope that once made me believe
You’d never leave a girl like me
—gone…
So many ways I could repress
So many ways to harm myself
Somehow, the pain makes me feel good
—it makes me think it hurts you too
But I know you don’t feel a thing
You don’t care that I am hurting
You have moved on, forgot three years
While I still wish that you were here
The brightest mornings, now so dark
—The empty echoes of my heart—
The eyes that hold such loss, despair
The pain in knowing you don’t care
The hottest showers give off no warmth
The couch does not give me comfort
The foods I eat— they’re bittersweet
Since you’re not sharing them with me
The pain courses through bloody veins
My cheeks cannot tell tears from rain
My dreams are merely memories
That now resemble fantasies
It seems I’ll never let you go
Each time I try, the pain just grows
I delve into my misery
—the future agonizing me
I’d give it all for one more kiss
Or that we’d never even met
—if only I could change the past
But in stone it’s forever set
I know that it has been too long
—I couldn’t help but keep holding on
When I was tossed, I grabbed the side
Holding on to save my life
IiI: Seasons
Season by season, day by day
I hold onto each memory
—The snow that melts, the clouds that fade,
The love that had to separate—
In winter— frozen
In spring, it thaws
But now it blends into a song
Instead of joy, it raises strife
The season’s now cause death, not life
The emptiness of nature, too
Means it too mourns, it is the proof
And once you chose to carry me
And now I walk alone.
And once you’d promised everything
The power you don’t own.
And as each movement freezes
It’s glacial doom it can’t avoid
I’ll find the strength that’s needed
To free me from this dreary void
Iv: Letting Go
As far as my brain understands
A life hangs between won’t and can’t
It’s balanced by the paths we choose
A delicate process we all must go through
To suffer merely is to live
No soul on earth is near perfect
Not every path we take is right
It’s just a given in this life
And if we have the need for joy
We must know what we’re striving for
We need the pain to know it’s bad
So we know joy is opposite that
Fate gave you to me
Taking you back at the end of three years
It seems so unfair in the state we exist
But what joy would life have if it lacked any twists
There’s always the bright side
—of which we never seem to see
We only see the bad side
Drifting far from near happy
We’re blind to the things that could brighten our soul
For we fear losing meaning to our current joy
And we turn our left cheek for a slap on the right
But the ending’s the same, for we’re all gonna die
If you’re going nowhere, then you’re standing in place
—the least you could do is attempt this one race
You’ll never succeed if you don’t let him go
You will not prove him wrong if you can’t stand alone
This man was no crutch, he was merely a wall
You lived without him once, there’s no difference at all
And pain and regrets
They just anchor you down
And it’s over— he didn’t catch you
Surely, he won’t pick you up off the ground
And you have to walk on
—walk on all on your own
For you’ll die in the ocean
If you have no lifeboat
But at the site of disaster
Help always is found
Oh! And soon, they will find you
It shouldn’t be long
And there’s more than one lifeboat
There’s five… ten… fifteen!
There’s plenty of room
And that’ll hear if you scream
V: Hope Floats
There’s hope found in the lifeboat
It isn’t the end
You get up and move on
—this life is precious, don’t waste a moment
You must take full control
Row the boat, with your oars
You’ve cried—already—a sea
There’s no need to cry more
Hope floats in the ocean
So get on the lifeboat
And now on your own
You can make your own path
And you won’t let him back
The memories you’ve purged are gone
The love you held is forever gone
But you are strong, you will survive…
Let go of him …—…—…—… Hope is alive.
Upon an eve I sat me down and wept,
Because the world to me seemed nowise good;
Still autumn was it, & the meadows slept,
The misty hills dreamed, and the silent wood
Seemed listening to the sorrow of my mood:
I knew not if the earth with me did grieve,
Or if it mocked my grief that bitter eve.
Then ’twixt my tears a maiden did I see,
Who drew anigh me on the leaf-strewn grass,
Then stood and gazed upon me pitifully
With grief-worn eyes, until my woe did pass
From me to her, and tearless now I was,
And she mid tears was asking me of one
She long had sought unaided and alone.
I knew not of him, and she turned away
Into the dark wood, and my own great pain
Still held me there, till dark had slain the day,
And perished at the grey dawn’s hand again;
Then from the wood a voice cried: “Ah, in vain,
In vain I seek thee, O thou bitter-sweet!
In what lone land are set thy longed-for feet?”
Then I looked up, and lo, a man there came
From midst the trees, and stood regarding me
Until my tears were dried for very shame;
Then he cried out: “O mourner, where is she
Whom I have sought o’er every land and sea?
I love her and she loveth me, and still
We meet no more than green hill meeteth hill.”
With that he passed on sadly, and I knew
That these had met and missed in the dark night,
Blinded by blindness of the world untrue,
That hideth love and maketh wrong of right.
Then midst my pity for their lost delight,
Yet more with barren longing I grew weak,
Yet more I mourned that I had none to seek.
How can you grieve and express loss?
Do you cry loud think or choose?
Stay in corner and get lost in memory
Stay with gloomy face under deep worry
God needs them most in His Courtroom
Where as there was no dearth for others with room
Person may be precious like fine star in the sky
Shined for few hours and immediately chosen to fly
We feel world as hollow
We think sun may not shine tomorrow
Nights may be all worthless
We may have lot many problems to chase
Such might have been the dominant position
The loss caused to family is sudden imposition
Family may take some time to adjust the shock
They have yet to come out of it to take the stock
Even though we are aware of uncertainty
We leave it to good wisdom of almighty
It is natural to shed a tear over loss
We follow the natural and consider it as divine cause
Think of no control on life span
Human beings might have made lots of plans
Nobody would have preferred quitting of their own
So almighty has taken control in hand and made it known
We attribute untimely death as decided by destiny
Some of us may not reconcile or come to terms fully
Yet the helplessness is openly seen on the face
Life has been termed as adventurous but as uncertain race
So always we talk of great wisdom
Raise hands in disgust cry foul seldom
Somewhere we realize its futility
Suddenly come down to terms as inability
Instantly life flashes through my mind,
It is raining, but there's not a cloud in the sky.
Succumbed by emotion,
Reality grabs my nervous system,
Like a vampire's thrusting canines,
Everything that was common is somehow misplaced,
Hiding in a dark room,
Extracting all the love inside me,
Like a needle to the vein,
As I surrender to the devastion,
My heart explodes with envy,
For the life that is now only in my dreams,
Dazed as I go through the daily routines of life,
Surreal as it all seems,
This is my reality,
With not a tear left to cry,
I sit in solitude,
Waiting,
Waiting,
Will I be able to collect all the tiny pieces of my broken heart?
Will I be able to find happiness again?
This I ponder from within the hole in which I lay,
Waiting,
Waiting,
Seeking justification,
My mouth implodes with the jargon of my remorse,
Seek comfort, I will, in the solace of my own redemption
Lay to rest the history of me becoming totally undone.
AH! who'll e'er those days restore,
Those bright days of early love
Who'll one hour again concede,
Of that time so fondly cherish'd!
Silently my wounds I feed,
And with wailing evermore
Sorrow o'er each joy now perish'd.
Ah! who'll e'er the days restore
Of that time so fondly cherish'd.
I bought an idol made of ivory.
All said it was good; it got its glory.
Who must I be grateful to:
The seller, the maker,
The smuggler, the very tusk
Or the elephant slaughtered?
Is such gain worthy?
I lost the idol made of ivory.
A treasure was it; I got fury.
Who must I blame for the loss:
The inmates, the servants,
The thief, his need and creed
Or the society that valued it?
Is such loss a pity?
Credits and blames on tracing
Would fizzle out to naught.
03.07.2006
Words fall short
To express a sense of loss.
It can only be felt
In the emptiness it left.
In the longing of your heart,
In some chamber of your soul,
For a dear one gone
In a flash, we are forever apart.
In the silent tears
That flow down your cheeks,
Soaking the pillow case
As you lie curled up in bed.
In the half smile
That never reaches your eyes,
The void that fills you
And makes you wonder why are you alive.
With time the ache becomes dull,
And from time to time
You find yourself awake
Tossing, turning going down
The memory lane,
Some sweet some full of pain.
You are never whole,
As long as there is a longing
In your soul.
In time you realise
You have to let go,
And make peace
And deal with grief.
Finally when it does,
You grow wise
Compassionate and loving,
And gain a new insight
Into life that is a mystery.
All has been plunder'd from me but my wit:
Fortune herself can lay no claim to it.
'HOW DO YOU COPE'
How do you cope with the loss of a child?
One minute their here, the next their gone.
The child you brought up with so much care,
Suddenly they are no longer here.
No smile or a touch how do you cope?
I just cant imagine when you have lost hope,
Its just not right, not the order of things!
To lose your child is an awful thing.
Whether they are young, or, older it should not be.
Your child should be here sat on your knee.
Not the other way round when they have gone!
All your Aspirations down the pan.
God bless anybody who has felt this pain.
You need each other to get through the rain.
Though its not right, for you to feel this pain!
When you pass through you will be together again.
David Bennett.xx
When I compare
What I have lost with what I have gained,
What I have missed with what attained,
Little room do I find for pride.
I am aware
How many days have been idly spent;
How like an arrow the good intent
Has fallen short or been turned aside.
But who shall dare
To measure loss and gain in this wise?
Defeat may be victory in disguise;
The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.
Brother Jackson died a few moons ago. It is a loss.
It is a finale; it is the final curtain.
Everyday is a loss, tomorrow is uncertain.
Take several deep breaths, do as many toasts
That your heart and soul desire.
Stare at the moon, walk in the sun, play in the rain, and admire
The trees, the plants, the leaves and the flowers.
Smile with, wave at, and chat with your neighbors.
Everyday is a loss; sweet moments move quicker than the thieves
Of Penzance. Appreciate and enjoy every second of the day.
The Cardiologist is in jail; it is a loss
For our community. There no winners,
Only losers. Life is short and precious.
Enjoy the plains, the mounts, the valleys and the rivers;
Never be vindictive and malicious.
It is always a loss, when you examine it deeply.
There are no winners, only losers.
Smile with, wave at and forgive your neighbors.
It is always a loss! Pray for Brother Jackson, and have pity
On the adversaries. Enjoy and appreciate every second of the day.
Smoking Joe Frazier, a great boxer, recently passed away.
Steve Jobs, a genius, died; so did Andy Rooney.
It is always a loss, when you examine it deeply.
Don’t stop praying for our friends, foes and brothers everyday.
Smile, laugh and enjoy every second of the day.
Copyright© November 7,2011, Hébert Logerie, All Rights Reserved
Hebert Logerie is the author of several poetry books.
https: //www2.xlibris.com/bookstore/bookdisplay.aspx? bookid=58359
http: //www.poemhunter.com/hebert-logerie
When I was young, I saw happy ever after in your eyes.
The stars reflected in your auburn hair, and new horizons
sprang eternal every morning with sunlit skies.
Such dreams danced in my every heartbeat, and new joy,
joy leapt immortal each night with palpable visions
of you my love.
But, when you died, sadness ever after filled my tears.
My hair turned gray beneath the dim moon’s light, and death,
death cast its shadow upon every morn and turned my joys to fears.
Such misery flailing with my every thought, and old wounds,
wounds gaped in sorrow's fields with the finiteness of my breath
as I wept for the loss of you.
There's kinds of loss that can bum you out
The loss of a game
You lost your way
Losing your favorite pin
This can make you pout
But without a doubt
It is not a real big thing
The kind of loss that can make you shout
The loss of your job
The loss your car
When you could not pay
It left you confused
Feeling slightly defused
But then you can re-group
Then there a loss, that cuts deep within
My maternal rights that I tried not to win
So stupid to give up such a gift
To watch my boys grow, live with the man
that I've tried so much to get away
No school papers to hang on my frig
No more practices to run to at night
Now I that I am a part-time Mom
And try and do it all on my weekends
Going away,
I take one last look behind,
And you can't believe those winter days
Were nothing more than lies.
Knives in our backs,
Dying memories inside -
Maybe I've become so heartless,
Maybe free, or simply blind.
Dear, we are done,
Drink your tears of regret,
Find the answers by yourself,
And make my side of our bed.
Swallow your last words,
Go on living in your shell.
In front of you is loneliness -
I've only cast my spell.
Wounds will heal so soon,
But for years you'll be scarred.
You could never think you'd say this,
But you'll find our parting hard.
Shards of perished hope
Watch your recent dreams come by,
You'll feel lost and devastated,
You will hear this song and cry!
Everything that's left
Burns your blood and slits your wrists,
It's your silent suicide,
But I can feel no guilt for this.
No guilt for this!
I have given this one most thought.
To learn this lesson you may not want.
But everybody knows and everybody felt
Some have seen more with the hand they've been dealt.
But I’m going to remind you because it seems.
That change is the worst enemy that deems
The fear that you have for the future
Is the loss that you will lose there?
But life is loss but not all loss comes
In the form of death or separation from
Two loves who no longer give
Each other their own life to live.
Because sometimes people have to walk away
From the hurt that they feel each day.
Sometimes people have to let go of the feelings
And move on with the day to day dealings.
Or never find themselves without remorse
And never having any recourse
Of the life that is loss and always having to carry
Those people that which they should bury.
“Our loss was light,” the paper said,
“Compared with damage to the Hun”:
She was a widow, and she read
One name upon the list of dead
Her son, her only son.
In a solitude of the sea
Deep from human vanity,
And the Pride of Life that planned her, stilly couches she.
Steel chambers, late the pyres
Of her salamandrine fires,
Cold currents thrid, and turn to rhythmic tidal lyres.
Over the mirrors meant
To glass the opulent
The sea-worm crawls -- grotesque, slimed, dumb, indifferent.
Jewels in joy designed
To ravish the sensuous mind
Lie lightless, all their sparkles bleared and black and blind.
Dim moon-eyed fishes near
Gaze at the gilded gear
And query: "What does this vaingloriousness down here?" ...
Well: while was fashioning
This creature of cleaving wing,
The Immanent Will that stirs and urges everything
Prepared a sinister mate
For her -- so gaily great --
A Shape of Ice, for the time far and dissociate.
And as the smart ship grew
In stature, grace, and hue,
In shadowy silent distance grew the Iceberg too.
Alien they seemed to be;
No mortal eye could see
The intimate welding of their later history,
Or sign that they were bent
By paths coincident
On being anon twin halves of one august event,
Till the Spinner of the Years
Said "Now!" And each one hears,
And consummation comes, and jars two hemispheres.
When I compare
What I have lost with what I have gained,
What I have missed with what attained,
Little room do I find for pride.
I am aware
How many days have been idly spent;
How like an arrow the good intent
Has fallen short or been turned aside.
But who shall dare
To measure loss and gain in this wise?
Defeat may be victory in disguise;
The lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.
Virtue runs before the muse
And defies her skill,
She is rapt, and doth refuse
To wait a painter's will.
Star-adoring, occupied,
Virtue cannot bend her,
Just to please a poet's pride,
To parade her splendor.
The bard must be with good intent
No more his, but hers,
Throw away his pen and paint,
Kneel with worshippers.
Then, perchance, a sunny ray
From the heaven of fire,
His lost tools may over-pay,
And better his desire.
Great men by small means oft are overthrown;
He's lord of thy life, who contemns his own.
When I had vigour
I had no valour;
When I gathered valour
I had lost my vigour.
End is zero.
When I was eager
The means were meager;
When I grew richer
I had lost to be eager.
End is cipher.
When I was pretty
I was shy;
When I outgrew shyness
I had shed my beauty.
End is at naught.
When there was youth
No means to adorn with;
When there were means
Where is my youth?
End is the nil.
14.04.99
Loss of love from your partner in soul:
A.k.a. jilt;
Loss of love from your bygones of souls:
A.k.a. mourning;
Loss of love which came from a dearth
Of love through rescinding love:
A.k.a. hatred;
Love to science in analysis be
Secretion of oxytocin in association
With an entity that leads to bonding - so boring:
A.k.a. must all suffer scientific explanation?
Loss of love, a catastrophe, nay!
So love, nurture love, and be loved!
Loss of nature from dear Mother Earth:
A.k.a. destruction;
Loss of greed in material world:
A.k.a. always opportunity for altruism;
Loss of kindness and pity and all:
A.k.a. human nature has dark undertones;
Loss of ego and fire of desire:
A.k.a. loss may be good in consequence;
Loss of responsibility; humility:
A.k.a. loss may be unnerving.
Loss of Homo sapiens:
A.k.a. demise of the flawed primate - pinnacle of Darwinism - equates to
No art; music; poetry; debate, and
Everything innate ornate of human!
So concentrate please, on bliss of this.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
I was lost 6 months ago
It was lust that drove my soul
I couldn't controll...
what happened that night
What a loss I say to you
It wasn't love
but why not try something new?
Why judge someone you don't know?
Just open your mind and go with the flow
But no...
You had left so many words unspoken
I have questions, but your mind still isn't open
What a loss I say to you
The loss of a child no matter what age
Doesn't seem to ease the pain.
Whether it be one day or a lifetime of memories
In your heart they'll always be.
How do you stop a parent from feeling the pain
Their life has changed and will never be the same.
Their child s face will always stay in their mind
Remembering of things and times gone by.
The emptiness that you feel in your heart
Is a feeling that will never part.
It's as if a finger or a hand has been taken away
And you try to adjust and can't find the way.
It's like one minute you can see and the next
Minute you've gone blind, and there is
Nothing that you can find.
You wander helplessly in a deep fog
Not knowing where you're going
Or where you've been, and your
screaming and cursing is a downright sin.
God had plans for your child you see
And this is the way that it has to be.
Your child was chosen because there
Is a job that must be done
And god felt he/ she was the perfect one.
The pains you feel while here on earth
Is nothing compared to when you see
Your child s new birth.
A loss of a friend hurts
The loss of a best friend hurts more,
But it is never a true loss;
Everyday you will see something that reminds you of them
This will bring a memory;
A memory of the times you speant together
Followed by another;
A memory of how you went your seperate ways
They will always be in your mind;
They never really leave you.
My Loss...
Of a Mother.
Of a Friend.
Of a Queen.
The Beginning of the End...
God's Gain.
Of a Daughter.
Of the Light.
Of an Angel.
The Main Soul in His Fight.
My Love...
For My Mother.
Gods Love...
For his Child.
She's with God Right now
watching from His Almighty Cloud.
Curiosity grows, finding new ground
Temptation breaks all resistance
Dark discoveries flood in
Innocence swept away
Sinfull satisfaction sweeps over
Curiosity laughs, temptation has won
Sources change, sin remains
Innocence is dead, replaced
Solemn days, no surprises
The sun shines over cold flesh
A warm heart beats, needing joy
Content for now, a mind wanders
Innocence has been lost...
A single picture has brought it all back again.
I can smell the smells
and hear the sounds
as though it were yesterday
and not the ancient history of my youth.
I close my eyes and feel his hot breath on my face,
its sickenly sweet smell nauseats me.
His unshaven face touches mine
and I retch as the memory overwhelms me.
I can almost feel the cool air blowing in the tent
I hear the sound of cars going by,
a hundred,
a thousand,
one,
...God,
rushing off
going by
unaware
not knowing
oblivious
to my struggle
and the hot red pain
as I am awakened
My innocent, not lost, but stolen
(the awakening came)
like the shock of a rapier  piercing the heart of a novice fencer.
or a sun soaked body thrown into an icy river …
I was stunned by the revelation
paralyzed,
numbed
and mute.
All the whispers and snickers
Jibes and insinuations
Came into focus in an instant
I understood
Like adam,  I am not nude,  but naked on the inside
Shame, like a jacket falls on me,  and I put it on
For it fits so well
Humiliation hangs over me and bends my head down low
My soul like clay  was shaped by ugly hands
Disfigured, damaged dysfunctional forever
I looked into his eyes and I think  “betrayed again”,
Treacherous brown eyes seem to follow me
Waiting for me,
I was foolish enough to be open and vulnerable,
gushing like a school girl with raw emotion.
He struck  like a cobra, fangs sinking in, pumping poison
He has taken me, raped me and left me for dead
and i am once again
used and abandoned
When the faith is lost in the heaven
Then the peace will become an enemy in our soul
When the love is lost in our heart
Then the nature of behavior become full of sins
When the knowledge is lost in the school
Then the nation's future will suffer from wisdom
When the kindness is lost in the nation
Then the people of the nation become immoral
When a home is lost its brightness of life
Then the family will suffer from mantle agony
When the nature is lost its beauty
Then the pleasant green pastures become like a dessert land
When all those prayers are kept away from God
Then the tears of life can not be cured
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2009 Ravi Sathasivam
Death leaves heartache no one can heal, grief fresh, adjusting to losing a friend. In time memories bring humor and I'll laugh again and it will dissipate the pain. Things I don't want to happen but must learn to accept, adjust and believe happen for a reason. Remain in faith and prayer for friends and family I can't live with out but have to let go...those I have lost & My children that I am away from, I am missing you everyday.
Watching the dismal streets,
the rain splasing down,
Drip dropp Drip drop
The loss of life.
Watching friends play footie
The silence of the body in
which life would have left for another.
The silent solace.
Watching, the eyes red
tears extending their arms
down the eyes slowly.
The joy lost in despair.
Madness for life in turn
To bring it to a halt and
sort out the puzzled brain.
To clear the though of loss.
Life a motion of words and
phrases, not a meaning
to anything, no shock to big.
For loss of life is something. Strong.
The engine whirrs everyday
as time becoms a devil haunting
hoping the time is to pass
and disappear.
The loss of life
Haunting the memories.
Sadness disappears to sheer
silence.
Emotions withheld within the realms
of the mind and no emotions shown.
Except the blank expression of time
and blankness.
The loss of life changing
futures of everyone.
Delight long gone.
For a Loss of Life can be moving.
Or Even constricting only to squeeze
all life from the veins held in the body.
The loss of life...
I thank the loss of my memory
Of those days when I had not a friend
I am thankful to the memory
Of those great moments when we are together
I thank the loss of my memory
Of those seconds prior to your reasonableness
I am thankful to the memory
Of the great dimple when you smile
I thank the loss of my memory
Prior to the reduction of your anger
I am thankful to the memory
Of those great sharing moments of your success
I thank the loss of my memory
For the reasons of our arguments
I am thankful to the greatest
Moments of my life with you.
In cold and bitter dark
Madness falls like rain
The muddied slopes of reason
Slowly slip away
Gentle momentum
In falling
Gains
And brings the mountain
Tumbling down
I wonder if you think of me at all,
I am and it’s not helping me any more.
I need someone to take me away,
Take me away to a place where there is no memory or pain
I hope this someone is you
but still I can not hope much
I only hope that my heart can last
I haven’t seen you for a while
And everyone thinks I’m doing fine…
It’s not that simple,
I hope it was
Falling in love it’s just a loss,
A loss of soul in a strange way
When nothing seems the same it’s so easy to go insane.
Pointless dreams and silly thoughts,
Stupid smiles even when I see your name written wrong,
I wonder if you dedicate me even a second of your thoughts…
A forgotten time
A forgotten society
A forgotten land
A forgotten people
A time of peace
A time of war
A time of grieving
A time of celebration
A time of loss
A loss of knowledge
A loss of dignity
A loss of loved ones
A loss of  sanity
A loss of peace
A beginning of a new time
A beginning of new life
A beginning of new knowledge
A beginning of new peace
A beginning of new war
Its all a cycle
From a new beginning
To loss
To a time of difference
Till it is all forgotten
And a new beginning is forged.
Unattainable perfection
Highlighted flaws projected through a reflection
Glanced at through lowered eyes made heavy
With unanswered cries
Pleading for attention
Seeking redemption
Emotions seep through thin skin
Tightening the jaw making visible the tension
Which has taken residence within her
A body that betrayed her
Attention sought
Found in him
With their greeting
She loss the labels pure and innocent
Bestowing on him a gift she had yet to understand
In his wake she felt tainted used and self-hatred
Painfully aware of the absence of something that could never return
Failed attempts at ignoring the hurt
Carrying the mistakes of the past over every ledge
Onto every doorstep they crept
Regretting the moment allowing him to own it
Hating what can never be undone
A memory only and always
Provoking fantasies of different outcomes
But As the days go by fresh wounds fade to scarred flesh
Leaving only remnants of what occurred
Etched forever in the skin
A subtle mark the final reminder of her sin
I saw her face in a painting
High cheekbones thin nose full lips
I see her now as she's fainting-struggling- wandering
Long black hair and  full hips
Loss!
It screams out at me and the memories flood
Loss!
It screams out at me and it draws my blood
Loss!
A summers day as I spy on my first beloved for the last time
I was merely 7
Loss  of Susan
Knowing for the first time that a loved one was gone
To a mystical place known as heaven
Loss of Grandma
Screaming and flooding my memory as i see the girl in the painting
I as i remember and I'm fainting
The school day when they told us our chum had died
I sighed just sighed as the schoolgirls cried
A shoe thrown under a moving car
He didn't see very far
My mom's face as she witnessed told me it all
The boy would never again play ball
Loss of Billy
There i am in the 9th grade
staring into a pair of adorable eyes
I didn't need to learn of Leukemia that way
Never saw her not smiling from ear to ear
Every single moment happy to be here
And damn she was smart
Why did god take back that heart?
Loss of Sara
I saw her face in a painting
Now i see her wandering-struggling-fainting
Why did i see her face in a painting?
There i was and there he went
The president of 50 men
Here today and gone again
Rugged, reliable, responsible, tall and then
Gone.  How his brother must've cried
Loss of Jim
Then the Rose told the tale
My college roommate who would not fail
To take his life as he had planned
Long before he met me he was damned
The sleepwalking through days and days and days
The inability to peer through the misty haze
Loss of Frank
You lose someone you love and you understand these days
When i talk about the misty haze
Loss
I saw her face in a  painting long before i ever met her
High cheekbones, thin classical nose
Full lips, full hips,
Now she's struggling- wandering- fainting
Unable to peer through the misty haze
Unable to answer my gaze
Loss of her brother
Loss
It all makes sense now
God  thank you
You kept me here to try to give her cheer
I will try i will try I will try
I owe u God that is why
You showed me her face in a painting
The painting now etched in my memory which i shall call
Loss
Beau Golden
2-13-2006
Losing someone so special to you
Someone you loved so dearly
To lose that person
Is the greatest loss ever.
So how do you go on?
How can you make it another day?
After losing that most precious someone
How can you make it?
How can you survive with the endless tears
Each night you lay your head on your pillow?
What makes you go on?
How do you get up in the morning
Without your precious loved one?
How do you keep going on and on
With this terrible pain in your heart
That no amount of words
No amount of nature
No amount of belief
Can take it away from you?
It just lingers and lingers
As loss, loss, loss!
Where are you?
I miss you?
Why are you gone from my life?
I want you back
Why, why, why?
Yes, that is what it feels like – the loss.
Yet I am still here,
I am still surviving,
I am still going on,
I am still here.
Yet I feel as if a huge void is here in me
Like part of me vanished with you
And I need to get that part back
But wonder when I will?
And my loss is increased with
Not just losing you
But losing part of me too.
Do I have an answer to loss?
Do you?
The thing I can think of about loss is:
I am so lucky I got to know the precious person.
I got to see their beauty and their grace.
I got to enjoy their presence.
That I can treasure.
That I can keep
Special in my heart forever.
And maybe loss is just that – loss.
But just as we have loss,
We have all the special memories
That we can keep special in our minds forever,
And that is something we will never lose.
So maybe the answer to loss is to treasure the memories
Of our loved one
For as long as we have a memory
We never lose out, with loss.
Loss is something one deals with in their own way,
I've lost so much, its all but gone,
Out of it all..... I miss my mind the most.
Not able to think, not able to remeber anything,
Besides what was left in my heart,
all the loss.......all the pain, can't be forgotten,
The heart remebers all,
Every word thats hurt you,
every person that has Betrayed you......
all remebered within the scars left on your heart,
Lost in an ending, always hoping to restart.
In the might Orange River
just past Augrabies
you lost your magic ring
and there princess
you cried
while the water around you
circled out wider.
That knotted Russian wedding band
which should have brought you luck
that was for generations in your family
was grabbed
by the fingers of the red water
and was washed away
to maybe decorate the finger
of a dark goddess
and in your soul
you felt the darkness coming near
as if something crept
from the water right into your soul
and the shadows of willow trees
growing on the banks
reached out ominous
as if they were trying to protect you
against something.
Still the sun was bright in the sky,
the blue stretched over the heaven
and your reflection which was thrown
on the surface of the water
was matchless
and I saw tears in your dark green eyes.
I never knew when you arrived,
Had no clue when you left.
How long were you with me,
If you were with me at all?
Were you imagined by my fevered brain
Because all signs pointed to yes?
I thought you were my miracle,
My chance to do something right.
Yet you were taken from me
Before you could see the light.
I feel like a punishment
Has been doled out to me.
Have my sins been too great?
Have I lived too selfishly?
It doesn't seem fair
That I will never get the chance to know you.
You were unexpected and unplanned
Yet I fell in love with you.
I would have given you the life you deserved
If only we had made it through.
the loss of a loved one is hard to face
but you know they're in a better place
a place where there is no suffering and no pain
a place where loved ones are all the same.
a place where the angels gather to sing
with every new person that they bring.
for in this kingdom of happiness and joy
and pain does not exist.
sits our god and his beloved son.
he gave up his life so that we could see
what it is to be set free.
of all the suffering that we must go through
just so he could be with you.
so raise your head and look to the sky
for your loved one will be flying high.
their wings will be a beautiful white
and nothing can compare to that beautiful sight.
so put away your tears and grief
and thank the lord up above for his everlasting love.
Into the thousands
he flows and blends,
squeezes in a quick breakfast,
gets into his workshop
to keep the life safely comfortable,
he is in between the vehicles and smoke
till the dusk,
he loses himself slowly
in the bathroom,
he searches for his self
in the mirror.
She gave the day its heart of fire,
She gave the night her soul of flame;
The sun and moon translated through
Her love as gods became.
She filled me with unearthly strength,
A power not of my own was mine;
She passed, and crumbled into dust
And ashes my divine.
The Night knows not how fair she is
Before the stars come in the sky:
It is the light within ourselves
We see ourselves and others by.
In the depths of the night,
As they stumble–in darkness,
They know not what is right;
Who has been here the longest?
Like a sigh–lost in a crowd,
Or the Last star in the sky,
Death is constant–absorbed
Into the ramblings of life.
In the midst of the darkness,
They aimlessly wander.
In searching–In pleading,
To find what is lost.
This sigh fades away
In the crowds growing murmur.
This star fades away
In Sol’s waking smile.
They grieve and they worry,
Looking for the light.
Instead they find wisdom,
and this wisdom is sight.
It had been a long passing away.
A death that crackles the hardest stone,
He sank into the bed of this bay,
A death silent and alone.
He once frolicked through the sleepy field
Waking the insects on the grass.
Bare-foot, to the seashore yield
To dance with a moonlit lass.
He was my child, my dear,
Who never let it pass him by,
Always sat at the edge of that pier,
Watching the Samurai sunset sky.
Now I stand here over his grave,
Now realising he is dead.
And there are fireflies over the wave,
Spelling a poem left unsaid.
They wait for him,
Forever,
Thinking he's just asleep,
Waiting, waiting,
Thinking,
Soon,
He'll rise
From the ocean deep.
The loss of your virginity to the one you love
you think it's wrong but he says it's all right
you trust him with your whole heart
so you do what he says
you can't looked into his eyes
and when your laying there with his hands rubbing you, as he slowly moves his way down; you lay there and think how bad you want this to be done
the pain you go through as he gets pleasure makes you wanna cry
you want it to stop, but you are scared what he'll do
you tell him no more til you relize your looking down the barrel of a gun
you give it to him til you tell your mom
and she doesnt believe you til she sees the marks on your body and the terrior in your eyes
and now he's in prison and your sitting in counseling talking to a stranger bout why you don't have a dad..........you sit there in wonder and think how this is all your fault and all you hear is that it wasn't your fault that you did the right thing but when you look back in the passed you relize all the things you coulda done.
and every nite it plays back in your head, every silent moment when your mind wonders off all you think about are those nights of horror.
you loss your virginity and lost your father, two wrongs and no rights.
Loss can be good for us,
researchers say (Nolen-Hoeksema
and Davis,2002)   – it’s called
Post-Traumatic Growth…
When we ‘lose’ someone
we seldom see these days,
yet always love, we are in some strangely beautiful way
the gainers –
lose someone who, caught a glimpse of
down a school corridor, is like
a mirror in which you’ll see reflected
yourself as nothing but pure love…
and when you meet her then, it’s just as if
you meet love – and a modesty almost uncertain:
as if she had been  bestowed the awesome gift
of a part of sun and sunlight, and told,
bestow this wisely…
warmth, and light, and beautiful humility –
even your great talent – I recall
a rare and radiant press review
of a concert in the Purcell Room
where you improvised on, was it, Ravel..?
and when asked why you never built
upon that boost, you said with typical
serious thought, well people don’t seem
to be interested in that sort of thing…
so, the occasional concert; and another
undeveloped gift, for bringing together in opera
people who would never have dared
to seek the gift of singing in themselves…
so, we the gainers in this sad yet joyful way:
we saw you just occasionally; now,
as often as we remember you,
you’re here again, as love.. just, love…
my only sadness, Jennifer,
is that one day, when on your face
(never tell a lady to her face
about her face – yet I insult you
by saying that of you…)
on your face I saw the look
of a little girl who’d done her very best,
yet feared retribution…what demon,
small or large, had you to deal with in yourself?
I regretted then, not speaking out
and asking you about that; yet
you, with your great talent to bring love
were better equipped than I; too wise,
I think, not to know yourself…
for what you brought in your sweet nature –
taking work where it would offer,
playing the piano for a celebrated
but also modest ballet teacher,
playing a white grand piano next to a fern
in Heathrow’s nerve-strained hall…
what you brought was the essence of
that Indian ‘Perfect Prayer’ which so many speak
but not all live out: that nothing can be ‘taken’,
for the remainder is always perfect…
so we will mourn, or celebrate, dear Jenny:
we who were so fortunate,
and who shall remain  blessed for ever
that you have lived on earth..
‘sweet are the uses of adversity’ – for
there’s music in our souls
*
[Jennifer Bowring Pearce, >2007]
I told him i loved him,
what a stupid mistake on my part.
He actually made me feel like a real person,
Now all i feel like is an empty shell.
When we were actually together,
you seemed to understand how much i needed you,
how much i actually cared.
Now however,
I dont think i can look at you
without feeling all the feelings i used to feel.
I hate that i dont think i'll ever be able to forget you
but i love that you were part of my life.
Ilove you forever and always
I am so lost, alone, and misguided...
Where are the people I clung to?
I wish today was yesterday,
And so it seems the more days I live,
The more I want to go back to tomorrow and be happy.
Is this the prison I'm confined to,
Hating today and constantly dreaming of the past?
Am I to be miserable for the rest of my time here?
Or will I take a chance...
Will I do it again?
Go out on a limb,
Find someone to hold to,
Someone to embrace and tell everything to,
Someone I would trust and love?
What will I do, what choice should I make?
Life is so short and yet so complicated...
Why can't I just be happy?
Why can't I just be loved?
Why is life so hurtful?
Why do am I still putting up with it?
Because I believe that there is love,
Says one part of my mind to me.
No matter what you'll find someone one,
The one you're meant to be with.
No, I say, you're mad, insane!
You'll never find someone that will understand!
Stop trying to be more than you are,
You pathetic filth, you'll die alone!
So what'll it be?
What will you do?
Take a chance and find love again,
Or sulk in regrets of thing in the past?
What to do, what to do,
With your life ahead of you?
Birth and Death,
Two words but so much more in between...
Indeed we live in troubled times
Our days filled with angst n’ worry
Good folk committing petty crimes
Blindly going nowhere in a hurry
Some complain of “Memory loss”
Whilst caught up in hurtful foment
Their days lived in utter chaos
Forsaken; “Living in the moment”
When events speed up slow down!
Deliberate; then proceed
‘Lest you quickly sink n’ drown
For it’s your loss when lifetime tallied
Life is best when you’re the boss,
And there’s no need for memory loss
(ROTMS)
If I could clasp my little babe
Upon my breast to-night,
I would not mind the blowing wind
That shrieketh in affright.
Oh, my lost babe! my little babe,
My babe with dreamful eyes;
Thy bed is cold; and night wind bold
Shrieks woeful lullabies.
My breast is softer than the sod;
This room, with lighter hearth,
Is better place for thy sweet face
Than frozen mother eatrth.
Oh, my babe! oh, my lost babe!
Oh, babe with waxen hands,
I want thee so, I need thee so -
Come from thy mystic lands!
No love that, like a mother's fills
Each corner of the heart;
No loss like hers, that rends, and chills,
And tears the soul apart.
Oh, babe - my babe, my helpless babe!
I miss thy little form.
Would I might creep where thou dost sleep,
And clasp thee through the storm.
I hold thy pillow to my breast,
To bring a vague relief;
I sing the songs that soothed thy rest -
Ah me! no cheating grief.
My breathing babe! my sobbing babe!
I miss thy plaintive moan,
I cannot hear - thou art not near -
My little one, my own.
Thy father sleeps.  He mourns thy loss,
But little fathers know
The pain that makes a mother toss
Through sleepless nights of woe.
My clinging babe! my nursing babe!
What knows thy father - man -
How my breasts miss thy lips' soft kiss -
None but a mother can.
Worn out, I sleep; I wake - I weep -
I sleep - hush, hush, my dear;
Sweet lamb, fear not - Oh, God! I thought -
I thought my babe was here.
All those poems
I never wrote
you are my lost
beloved children.
Born a stillborn birth
never to be known, upon this earth.
Never to be raised
upon fledgling childhood dais.
Why has fate shown
such crushing bias?
Carved out
are quarried blocks
of fractured lesser stone.
Where are fine
flawless marble blocks
sculptural pure pieces?
Scattered left crumbling
rotting in their bedrock.
Cry Cry Lament
for all my lost children.
Cheated right of birth
so often
those of noble
neglected line.
Tearing pain of loss
strikes a ragged
dissonant note;
ransom paid
at extravagant price.
Loss felt
comparable
to loss of limb.
Artistic body left
incomplete
rendered less
ethereal capable
on lip of chasm.
Lost beyond recovery
essence never to be retrieved.
Often diligent committed day
ideas come slip away.
Gone past brink of reach
search proves poignant.
Post-mortem is pointless.
Consider
given opportunity
circumstances
available time.
Have we achieved
anything of remark?
Though how we mourn
all those lost unborn works.
Stone cutter with skill
and care cunningly
carved out blocks.
Using time. Age.
Old techniques. Patience.
Combined with muscle.
State of art
tools. Only to see
potentially brilliant
gift left scattered.
Discarded. Lying fallow.
Creativity
dried up
shriveled shriven
shrinkage.
Motive precision
fades
is receding into void.
Rebirth must begin
upon
latter day.
Artist has gone
leaving the gate of heart open.
Who will come in
to pick up his chisel?
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
http: //www.poemhunter.com/terence-george-craddock/
If I could catch the thieving critter,
Who stole my sense of humour,
I'd kick him in the you know whats,
And leave his gloom much doomer!
IN the world was one green nook I knew,
Full of roses, roses red and white,
Reddest roses summer ever grew,
Whitest roses ever pearled with dew;
And their sweetness was beyond delight,
Was all love's delight.
Wheresoever in the world I went,
Roses were; for in my heart I took
Blow and blossom and bewildering scent;
Roses never with the summer spent,
Roses always ripening in that nook,
Love's far summer nook.
In the world a soddened plot I know
Blackening in this chill and misty air,
Set with shivering bushes in a row,
One by one the last leaves letting go:
Wheresoe'er I turn I shall be there,
Always sighing there.
Ah, my folly! Ah, my loss, my pain!
Dead, my roses that can blow no more!
Wherefore looked I on our nook again?
Wherefore went I after autumn's rain,
Where the summer roses bloomed before,
Bloomed so sweet before?
Let me not cry with your passing away.
For in my heart, you'll always
Be here to stay.
It's for my loss and
Loneliness, that I weep.
For I know that you have
Peaceful sleep.
While I, who remain behind,
Am hurt and lonely at the love and
Friendship, that I have lost.
Yet in my heart, you
Will always be
A comforting memory.
The candle melts itself,
And the wick burns itself,
Just to give us away its light.
The incense stick ashes itself,
And turns to smoke itself,
Just to give us its aroma.
The sandalwood grinds itself,
And a paste, it becomes itself,
Just to give us away its scent.
The rose crushes itself,
And in water sinks itself,
Just to give us its flavor-drink.
The sugar cane crushes itself,
And becomes crystal itself,
Just to sweeten our food.
The field takes the seeds itself,
And turns them into plants itself,
Just to give us rich corn.
The tree labors itself,
And grows tall itself,
Just to give us its juicy fruits.
The cocoon spins itself,
And then unwinds itself,
Just to give us its silk.
The milk curdles itself,
And again churns itself,
Just to give us its butter.
The mother suffers pain herself,
But still smiles herself,
Just to feed the baby with her milk.
The camphor fumes itself,
And turns black smoke itself,
Just to illuminate the Lord.
One can gain something,
Only by losing something,
That's the law of nature.
Yes, the sacrifice's the mother,
Of what, in our life, we gather,
As the fruit of our labor.
So, grieve not over your loss,
A stepping stone to your success,
If you want to remain happy always.
I’m grateful to my birth
And dreadful to my death.
Joy and sorrow repeat.
No profit and no loss stay.
I loved her and lost all for her.
I lost her too and no regrets
As I have lost myself to her.
No lover regrets the loss made.
22.03.2010
On the loss of a young man
~
A young man
With a steady career
Promising future
Highly rated
Close circle of friends
A young family
Well provided for
The kind of life
Many wish to have
All too suddenly gone
Leaving repeated questions
None will ever understand
Those silent tears
He wept and kept alone
Till they became to much
An obituary in a newspaper
Reads praise from many
The ending of his story
Sad and sadly unknown
Another young man
Gone too soon
Written when the news arrived.
Toll for the brave!
The brave that are no more!
All sunk beneath the wave
Fast by their native shore.
Eight hundred of the brave,
Whose courage well was tried,
Had made the vessel heel,
And laid her on her side.
A land-breeze shook the shrouds,
And she was overset;
Down went the Royal George,
With all her crew complete.
Toll for the brave!
Brave Kempenfelt is gone;
His last sea-fight is fought,
His work of glory done.
It was not in the battle,
No tempest gave the shock,
She sprang no fatal leak,
She ran upon no rock.
His sword was in its sheath,
His fingers held the pen,
When Kempenfelt went down
With twice four hundred men.
Weigh the vessel up,
Once dreaded by our foes;
And mingle with our cup
The tears that England owes.
Her timbers yet are sound,
And she may float again
Full charged with England's thunder,
And plough the distant main.
But Kempenfelt is gone,
His victories are o'er;
And he and his eight hundred
Shall plough the wave no more.
The pain of loss is just too much
you will no longer be here to touch
gone forever is so true
but I will always remember you
the thought is too hard to bare
I shall not cry, I do not dare
the thought of you is still here
but I will shed not a tear
for I know where you will be
further than the eye can see
with our Father in the Heaven above
I will see you soon my love.
In our world, you are still here in spirit, to guide us, help us and do what you do best, make us laugh when times get hard.
You are now the wind beneath our wings,
The air in which we breathe,
The water in which we need,
Gone but never to be forgotten,
Reaching up for the stars, I can still feel your hand, reaching down and guiding me which way to go,
Looking at the footprints in the sand, the two sets of feet…and when times get hard.. I will know that when there is only one set of footprints…I know that you will be carrying me,
At this time, In our hearts… We are in sorrow for our loss but we know that if you could still be heard in which the way we hear things…
You would tell everyone to stop and stare around us, that we have the most powerful thing that anyone could ever have and that is life itself.
Each day a new sword flashes in the van;
Another leader, brave to do or die,
Comes forth, full- furnished for the strife whereby
He gains his growth and stature as a man.
Each day our world, that under the black ban
Of ignorant custom for so long did lie,
Grows bright and brighter, like a clearing sky,
More good and lovely in its wondrous plan.
Yet oh! how few the saved, how small the gain,
How poor the profit as against the cost —
The waste of life, divinely vast and fair,
Potential in starved soul and unfed brain —
The powers that might have been and might be — lost
Only for want of common food and air!
When a man loses, another gains.
For such is the law of this World.
The apple picked becomes yours;
filled with worms, it becomes theirs.
I woke up one morning
Finding love in a strange place
He was in a jam with a broken wing
Lifeless and pallid I cannot see his face
He needs a second chance only I could give
I reached out to him to give him a hand
Hesitated he wouldn’t even give me one look
Standing off at a distance with nothing planned
I explored and observed every corner and nook
Surprise I gave him a smile that shaken his world
I danced until his heart starts to beat
We became friends and love begins
But the broken wing is difficult to heal
The pain is holding him back from living
And in his cruel world my sincerity thins
Proving my self is a worthless challenge
I will be a rebound girl forever second
In his eyes he sees only the first
His true love the name will never change
Our story never will be celebrated in verse
25 jan 08 @ 10: 36 pm cst
8 years old
My little squirrel died
I know I must have cried
As years went by, I forgot that pain
I had no sympathy for loss, “what’s lost is gained”
I looked at death like it was a blessing
To me life here was to oppressing
14 years old
Attempted death multiple times
Prepared to hear beautiful Chimes
Chimes of peace, and beauty
But here on earth, there was an unfilled duty
I did not go away
My days here stayed a faded gray
21 years old
In a mess
This relationship was so much stress
Little Nikka, My little dog
In the mist of hostile fog
She fell asleep in my arms
This should have been the last alarm
Torture to my heart
That my Nika ni had to depart
Never did I image the pain to come
For Prozac helped to keep me numb
February 22nd,2009
This day I dread
Abandoned was the life that I once lead
My little brother,18 years old
Not once did I think that this would unfold
I could not fight this, it could not be debated
A feeling of burning while being suffocated
I wonder if this pain will ever go away
All I can do is wait another day
424
Removed from Accident of Loss
By Accident of Gain
Befalling not my simple Days—
Myself had just to earn—
Of Riches—as unconscious
As is the Brown Malay
Of Pearls in Eastern Waters,
Marked His—What Holiday
Would stir his slow conception—
Had he the power to dream
That put the Dower's fraction—
Awaited even—Him—
loosing my hair
large wad in the brush
let loose outside
robin finds a few strands
for nest building
Hardest of Lifes lessons is loss,
In which having becomes without,
When complete changes to shatters,
That what was full is, just an emptiness,
And guided becomes lost.
Security of knowing, fades to a memory,
Images of Love, become dreams,
Security of touch, a sensation ebbed away,
And Loneliness becomes company.
When the weakened Heart, strengthens,
tired from the weariness, of loss,
Growing, of the last Love,
To become the strength,
Of the next.
Lesson learned, is not to Love less,
With Loss,
lesson is, to learn to Love Grander,
With Gain.
Woman is a host and man is a guest
In a sexual act, an accomplished act.
She enjoys offering herself to him.
He enjoys himself feeding upon her.
Party is over; the host counts the loss.
22.02.2010
Losing a poem is like losing a life
A poem that seems set to make history
then itself now becoming history
by a saddened mystery
that emulates it's attribute 'mystery'
A dear poem just evaporates
into air so thin for recovery
that I wonder how else to retrieve
the beautiful artwork of description
that flowed down my fingers
as I penned down my insights
I have lost this to foolishness
as I copied not a draft
to fall on, on the occasion of a loss
I tried really hard to reborn
the thoughts that had a part to play
in the mix of the words displayed
on the screen of this new innovation [computer]
that led to the loss of my words
all for a trust I cannot convict
for stealing my precious thoughts
embedded in the lines of that poem
The feeling that you are gone is bitter
but I guess I should be capable
of rising to it's occassion
that are chanting in my mind
with rhetorical questions
seeming so difficult
to place a finger on
My dear,
I have decided to pay for your loss
and I admit that you are gone
but I'd make sure you remain green
in the hard disk of my being.
Dedicated to 'The Joy I See',
A poem i wrote on the computer but disappeared as i thought it was saved on my poems list.
ADIEU! ! !
See that fallen Princess! her splendor is gone--
The pomp of her morning is over;
Her day-star of pleasure refuses to dawn,
She wanders a nocturnal rover.
Alas! she resembles Jerusalem's fall,
The fate of that wonderful city;
When grief with astonishment rung from the wall,
Instead of the heart-cheering ditty.
When music was silent, no more to be rung,
When Sion wept over her daughter;
On grief's drooping willows their harps they were hung,
When pendent o'er Babylon's water.
She looks like some Star that has fall'n from her sphere,
No more by her cluster surrounded;
Her comrades of pleasure refuse her to cheer,
And leave her dethron'd and confounded.
She looks like some Queen who has boasted in vain,
Whose diamond refuses to glitter;
Deserted by those who once bow'd in her train,
Whose flight to her soul must be bitter.
She looks like the twilight, her sun sunk away,
He sets; but to rise again never!
Like the Eve, with a blush bids farewell to the day,
And darkness conceals her forever.
All through an empty place I go,
And find her not in any room;
The candles and the lamps I light
Go down before a wind of gloom.
Thick-spraddled lies the dust about,
A fit, sad place to write her name
Or draw her face the way she looked
That legendary night she came.
The old house crumbles bit by bit;
Each day I hear the ominous thud
That says another rent is there
For winds to pierce and storms to flood.
My orchards groan and sag with fruit;
Where, Indian-wise, the bees go round;
I let it rot upon the bough;
I eat what falls upon the ground.
The heavy cows go laboring
In agony with clotted teats;
My hands are slack; my blood is cold;
I marvel that my heart still beats.
I have no will to weep or sing,
No least desire to pray or curse;
The loss of love is a terrible thing;
They lie who say that death is worse.
today words escape me
I am sad beyond them
my world will pause today
and I will ache
my soul cries out every fiber of my being longs
for just one more touch
just one more hug
one more kiss from my father.
my heart breaks.
I miss him.
I wish there were words I can say
what I feel from day to day
Nobody knows what I'd do
For abother moment with you
I remember your smile
it would keep me going an extra mile
I remember all the great time we shared
cause your the one who truly cared
You said you'd always be there
now your gone, its just not fair!
Why did you take your life
only memories are left to remember you by.
I would give anything to have you back
without you my life has been a wreck
I wish there was a way to fill this empty space
But no one could take your place!
They are calling their deliberate, derogatory antics,
Meltdowns.
I refer to them,
As exposed realities of repackaged nuts!
What comes through one's lips,
Often flows from a premeditated mind...
From where disgusting outlooks sit!
No matter how impressive,
One's appearance gets!
They are calling their deliberate, derogatory antics,
Meltdowns.
I refer to them,
As exposed realities of repackaged nuts!
Speaking with a 'learned' intelligence,
Does not make one identified with common sense.
The evidence is there.
Whether videotaped...
Or later excused in one's defense.
On or off televised 'air'!
Ignorance unleashed,
Even crosses picket fences...
Where lawns are manicured.
And the loss of one's integrity,
Can be extremely expensive for one senseless and dense.
Showing one who may have wealth...
To have concern for nothing else but self!
Several down!
Many more to go!
1
The Eurydice—it concerned thee, O Lord:
Three hundred souls, O alas! on board,
Some asleep unawakened, all un-
warned, eleven fathoms fallen
2
Where she foundered! One stroke
Felled and furled them, the hearts of oak!
And flockbells off the aerial
Downs’ forefalls beat to the burial.
3
For did she pride her, freighted fully, on
Bounden bales or a hoard of bullion? —
Precious passing measure,
Lads and men her lade and treasure.
4
She had come from a cruise, training seamen—
Men, boldboys soon to be men:
Must it, worst weather,
Blast bole and bloom together?
5
No Atlantic squall overwrought her
Or rearing billow of the Biscay water:
Home was hard at hand
And the blow bore from land.
6
And you were a liar, O blue March day.
Bright sun lanced fire in the heavenly bay;
But what black Boreas wrecked her? he
Came equipped, deadly-electric,
7
A beetling baldbright cloud thorough England
Riding: there did stores not mingle? and
Hailropes hustle and grind their
Heavengravel? wolfsnow, worlds of it, wind there?
8
Now Carisbrook keep goes under in gloom;
Now it overvaults Appledurcombe;
Now near by Ventnor town
It hurls, hurls off Boniface Down.
9
Too proud, too proud, what a press she bore!
Royal, and all her royals wore.
Sharp with her, shorten sail!
Too late; lost; gone with the gale.
10
This was that fell capsize,
As half she had righted and hoped to rise
Death teeming in by her portholes
Raced down decks, round messes of mortals.
11
Then a lurch forward, frigate and men;
‘All hands for themselves’ the cry ran then;
But she who had housed them thither
Was around them, bound them or wound them with her.
12
Marcus Hare, high her captain,
Kept to her—care-drowned and wrapped in
Cheer’s death, would follow
His charge through the champ-white water-in-a-wallow,
13
All under Channel to bury in a beach her
Cheeks: Right, rude of feature,
He thought he heard say
‘Her commander! and thou too, and thou this way.’
14
It is even seen, time’s something server,
In mankind’s medley a duty-swerver,
At downright ‘No or yes? ’
Doffs all, drives full for righteousness.
15
Sydney Fletcher, Bristol-bred,
(Low lie his mates now on watery bed)
Takes to the seas and snows
As sheer down the ship goes.
16
Now her afterdraught gullies him too down;
Now he wrings for breath with the deathgush brown;
Till a lifebelt and God’s will
Lend him a lift from the sea-swill.
17
Now he shoots short up to the round air;
Now he gasps, now he gazes everywhere;
But his eye no cliff, no coast or
Mark makes in the rivelling snowstorm.
18
Him, after an hour of wintry waves,
A schooner sights, with another, and saves,
And he boards her in Oh! such joy
He has lost count what came next, poor boy.—
19
They say who saw one sea-corpse cold
He was all of lovely manly mould,
Every inch a tar,
Of the best we boast our sailors are.
20
Look, foot to forelock, how all things suit! he
Is strung by duty, is strained to beauty,
And brown-as-dawning-skinned
With brine and shine and whirling wind.
21
O his nimble finger, his gnarled grip!
Leagues, leagues of seamanship
Slumber in these forsaken
Bones, this sinew, and will not waken.
22
He was but one like thousands more,
Day and night I deplore
My people and born own nation,
Fast foundering own generation.
23
I might let bygones be—our curse
Of ruinous shrine no hand or, worse,
Robbery’s hand is busy to
Dress, hoar-hallowèd shrines unvisited;
24
Only the breathing temple and fleet
Life, this wildworth blown so sweet,
These daredeaths, ay this crew, in
Unchrist, all rolled in ruin—
25
Deeply surely I need to deplore it,
Wondering why my master bore it,
The riving off that race
So at home, time was, to his truth and grace
26
That a starlight-wender of ours would say
The marvellous Milk was Walsingham Way
And one—but let be, let be:
More, more than was will yet be.—
27
O well wept, mother have lost son;
Wept, wife; wept, sweetheart would be one:
Though grief yield them no good
Yet shed what tears sad truelove should.
28
But to Christ lord of thunder
Crouch; lay knee by earth low under:
‘Holiest, loveliest, bravest,
Save my hero, O Hero savest.
29
And the prayer thou hearst me making
Have, at the awful overtaking,
Heard; have heard and granted
Grace that day grace was wanted.’
30
Not that hell knows redeeming,
But for souls sunk in seeming
Fresh, till doomfire burn all,
Prayer shall fetch pity eternal.
Alas! Now o'er Britannia there hangs a gloom,
Because over 400 British Tars have met with a watery tomb;
Who served aboard the " Victoria," the biggest ship in the navy,
And one of the finest battleships that ever sailed the sea.
And commanded by Sir George Tyron, a noble hero bold,
And his name on his tombstone should be written in letters of gold;
For he was skilful in naval tactics, few men could with him cope,
And he was considered to be the nation's hope.
'Twas on Thursday, the twenty-second of June,
And off the coast of Syria, and in the afternoon,
And in the year of our Lord eighteen ninety-three,
That the ill-fated "Victoria" sank to the bottom of the sea.
The "Victoria" sank in fifteen minutes after she was rammed,
In eighty fathoms of water, which was smoothly calmed;
The monster war vessel capsized bottom uppermost,
And, alas, lies buried in the sea totally lost.
The "Victoria" was the flagship of the Mediterranean Fleet,
And was struck by the "Camperdown" when too close they did meet,
While practising the naval and useful art of war,
How to wheel and discharge their shot at the enemy afar.
Oh, Heaven ! Methinks I see some men lying in their beds,
And some skylarking, no doubt, and not a soul dreads
The coming avalanche that was to seal their doom,
Until down came the mighty fabric of the engine room.
Then death leaped on them from all quarters in a moment,
And there were explosions of magazines and boilers rent;
And the fire and steam and water beat out all life,
But I hope the drowned ones are in the better world free from strife.
Sir George Tyron was on the bridge at the moment of the accident
With folded arms, seemingly quite content;
And seeing the vessel couldn't be saved he remained till the last,
And went down with the "Victoria" when all succour was past.
Methinks I see him on the bridge like a hero brave,
And the ship slowly sinking into the briny wave;
And when the men cried, "Save yourselves without delay,"
He told them to save themselves, he felt no dismay.
'Twas only those that leaped from the vessel at the first alarm,
Luckily so, that were saved from any harm
By leaping into the boats o'er the vessel's side,
Thanking God they had escaped as o'er the smooth water they did glide.
At Whitehall, London, mothers and fathers did call,
And the pitiful scene did the spectators' hearts appal;
But the most painful case was the mother of J. P. Scarlet,
Who cried, "Oh, Heaven, the loss of my son I'll never forget."
Oh, Heaven! Befriend the bereaved ones, hard is their fate,
Which I am sorry at heart to relate;
But I hope God in His goodness will provide for them,
Especially the widows, for the loss of their men.
Alas! Britannia now will mourn the loss of her naval commander,
Who was as brave as the great Alexander;
And to his honour be it fearlessly told,
Few men would excel this hero bold.
Alas! 'Tis sad to be buried in eighty fathoms of Syrian sea,
Which will hide the secret of the "Victoria" to all eternity;
Which causes Britannia's sorrow to be profound
For the brave British Tars that have been drowned.
I don't quite remember
When it was, or maybe
Where it was...
Or even WHO I was
At the time,
Much less whom I was with...
But I do know
I woke up,
A different person...
Than the one
I was
When I went to sleep..
However,
I wasn't alone
When I awoke...
Nor was I alone
The night before,
And I can only wonder...
Who took my wonder,
And maybe my innocence,
Away from me?
Scarlett Treat
September 13,2008
A defeat at the hand of a heavy weight
Or a defeat by a hair thin margin
Is, like success, worth remembering.
So is the aborted love to its lover.
15.05.2010
PALE brows, still hands and dim hair,
I had a beautiful friend
And dreamed that the old despair
Would end in love in the end:
She looked in my heart one day
And saw your image was there;
She has gone weeping away.
The dust and smoke of the battle done
The dead left lying in the trenches
Young people's tears mixed with blood
The wounded lie dying
With arms waving a call for aid
That no one answered
While the living lie
About whom it was that won
(2007)
Fading laughter
From memories past
Hidden tears
Soon are lost
Powerless to
The will of you
Forced unto
All that grew
Aggrivating
I say, I dare
But whoever said
Life was fair?
A sigh of grievance
Is all I can do
How can I say
My mourning's through?
I have lost, and lately, these
Many dainty mistresses:--
Stately Julia, prime of all;
Sapho next, a principal:
Smooth Anthea, for a skin
White, and heaven-like crystalline:
Sweet Electra, and the choice
Myrha, for the lute and voice.
Next, Corinna, for her wit,
And the graceful use of it;
With Perilla:--All are gone;
Only Herrick's left alone,
For to number sorrow by
Their departures hence, and die.
Forgive me if I say the demise of your father
Brought me back to my writing once again.
But it’s also true- I had stopped writing rather
Since silence between us, grew like a mound within.
Now, I have no words of consolation to shower
Can only feel and share your pain with shiver
We know, a precious gift is lost in life forever
It was to happen one day or the other but for sure.
Though I could suffer the silence of till date
The muteness of today is unbearably a fate
I want to talk to you but still I hold it and wait
For the reason, that it’s time, you want to be quiet.
I cannot bring ‘Solace’, though I wished I could
I cannot stop tears rolling down because it should.
I only wish a monsoon on you, to hide your tear
So you cry to your hearts content, without fear.
Take this grief into your stride with plain fact
River get dried or joins the sea to reach the bliss
Flow has to stop, as the boundary is already set
Else humans will never know the value of ‘Loss’
-vidi-
01-02-08
I resent
What loss represents
I resent
What great loss presents
So what’s the fuss about loss?
Waiting!
Debating!
Contemplating!
What is loss?
Something you care about
Taken away from you by force
Creating total unforgivable chaos
Thinking!
Blinking!
Seeking!
What is loss
It is a minus instead of a plus
Hence the unmistakable fuss
Death and sickness build up great grief
Loss brings despair instead of relief
And in loss itself I have no belief
I resent
What loss represents
I resent
What great loss presents
Loss! An inequitable cause
Thrown on you without a toss
So you become very cross
Because in your life you realize, you are never the only boss!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Im sitting here looking at this old flower,
It's been about a half an hour.
Seeing you, No longer makes me blue.
I now see how the time has flew.
I no longer have to pretend that everything is fine.
Because it was your loss, not mine.
When you see me I hope that you feel blue;
And realize how good I was to you.
Everything now is perfectly fine.
Because it's your loss and never was mine.
The world has lost the ear for rhyme.
It still makes children squirm with pleasure;
and from some witty pens and minds, its fireworks fizz;
so, after all these centuries of rhyme
and all the games of meter, dancing words,
should we now mourn its passing?
Have we lost the music of another world?
Instead, the easy unpretentious discourse,
sober, light, familiar, honest -
the world of daily, homely, shared sharp life,
that's now preferred. Not prose;
much more than 'chopped-up prose' as those may say
who think that poetry should be more visibly hard-earned;
- as if a human life set down in honesty
were not a poem in itself, unwrit;
'prose with enhanced consciousness' it's often now defined;
and consciousness - now that's earned, if you like...
and simile, and imagery, and metaphor - all the repertoire
of glorious poetry - they're all still here
to work their magic; if more played down, now,
unostentatious as T-shirt and jeans;
unostentatious as the beating, bloody heart.
And yet, when years bring tears
and time brings death and dying,
it's time for rhyme, to heal the heart
and charm away the crying.
[NOTE: THIS POEM IS NOT TO BE USED ANYWHERE WITHOUT MY CONCENT. PLEASE USE THE LINKS IN MY BIOGRAPHY OR MESSAGES ON THIS SITE TO CONTACT ME. THANKS.]
I can't remember,
Skipping rocks on the pond,
My childhoods forgotten,
My Childhoods lost,
Going to the lake,
Sitting on the beach,
Playing with friends,
or dancing in the streets,
I can't remember,
The crash in the fog,
My childhood was forgotten,
My childhood was lost,
The doctor doing surgery,
Me getting pills,
I can't remember any of it,
None of it's clear,
I still can't remember,
How it is gone,
My childhood forgotten,
My childhood's lost!
Well I'm gonna end it right now,
I gonna kill myself off,
A childhood Forgotten,
A childhood lost
Cord.     Distressed pilgrim, whose dark clouded eyes
Speak thee a martyr to love's cruelties,
Whither away?
Amor.                      What pitying voice I hear,
Calls back my flying steps?
Cord.                           Pr'ythee, draw near.
Amor.     I shall but say, kind swain, what doth become
Of a lost heart, ere to Elysium
It wounded walks?
Cord.                      First, it does freely flye
Into the pleasures of a lover's eye;
But, once condemn'd to scorn, it fetter'd lies,
An ever-bowing slave to tyrannies.
Amor.     I pity its sad fate, since its offence
Was but for love.  Can tears recall it thence?
Cord.     O no, such tears, as do for pity call,
She proudly scorns, and glories at their fall.
Amor.     Since neither sighs nor tears, kind shepherd, tell,
Will not a kiss prevail?
Cord.                           Thou may'st as well
Court Eccho with a kiss.
Amor.                           Can no art move
A sacred violence to make her love?
Cord.     O no! 'tis only Destiny or Fate
Fashions our wills either to love or hate.
Amor.     Then, captive heart, since that no humane spell
Hath power to graspe thee his, farewell.
Cord. Farewell.
Cho.      Lost hearts, like lambs drove from their folds by fears,
May back return by chance, but not by tears.]
Nought loves another as itself,
Nor venerates another so,
Nor is it possible to thought
A greater than itself to know.
'And, father, how can I love you
Or any of my brothers more?
I love you like the little bird
That picks up crumbs around the door.'
The Priest sat by and heard the child;
In trembling zeal he seized his hair,
He led him by his little coat,
And all admired the priestly care.
And standing on the altar high,
'Lo, what a fiend is here! said he:
'One who sets reason up for judge
Of our most holy mystery.'
The weeping child could not be heard,
The weeping parents wept in vain:
They stripped him to his little shirt,
And bound him in an iron chain,
And burned him in a holy place
Where many had been burned before;
The weeping parents wept in vain.
Are such thing done on Albion's shore?
Abandoned to sadistic streets,
A school room of sullen tears,
A little girl lost beneath
A blanket of rejection and fears
Moves slowly through
The lonely night;
The effects of drugs
Are wearing off…
And dawn has no promise
Of sunlight and pleasant songs.
Children of the future age,
Reading this indignant page,
Know that in a former time
Love, sweet love, was thought a crime.
In the age of gold,
Free from winter's cold,
Youth and maiden bright,
To the holy light,
Naked in the sunny beams delight.
Once a youthful pair,
Filled with softest care,
Met in garden bright
Where the holy light
Had just removed the curtains of the night.
Then, in rising day,
On the grass they play;
Parents were afar,
Strangers came not near,
And the maiden soon forgot her fear.
Tired with kisses sweet,
They agree to meet
When the silent sleep
Waves o'er heaven's deep,
And the weary tired wanderers weep.
To her father white
Came the maiden bright;
But his loving look,
Like the holy book
All her tender limbs with terror shook.
'Ona, pale and weak,
To thy father speak!
Oh the trembling fear!
Oh the dismal care
That shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair!'
I'm a little boy isolated from everyone,
And my family and friends need to see
That I'm missing from the neighborhood scene.
Perhaps they have forgotten all about me.
If I remain lost and here alone,
Eventually I will become weak and frail,
But my faithful collie dog has followed me,
A welcomed companion on this dusty trail.
Yet - he can't lead me home, for he
Was taught to remain with his master,
So I'm constantly rubbing my teary eyes,
And just as lost now as ever and facing disaster.
What will become of me?
SEATED one day at the Organ,
I was weary and ill at ease,
And my fingers wandered idly
Over the noisy keys.
I do not know what I was playing,
Or what I was dreaming then ;
But I struck one chord of music,
Like the sound of a great Amen.
It flooded the crimson twilight,
Like the close of an Angel's Psalm,
And it lay on my fevered spirit
With a touch of infinite calm.
It quieted pain and sorrow,
Like love overcoming strife ;
It seemed the harmonious echo
From our discordant life.
It linked all perplexéd meanings
Into one perfect peace,
And trembled away into silence
As if it were loth to cease.
I have sought, but I seek it vainly,
That one lost chord divine,
Which came from the soul of the Organ,
And entered into mine.
It may be that Death's bright angel
Will speak in that chord again,
It may be that only in Heaven
I shall hear that grand Amen.
I meet thy pensive, moonlight face;
Thy thrilling voice I hear;
And former hours and scenes retrace,
Too fleeting, and too dear!
Then sighs and tears flow fast and free,
Though none is nigh to share;
And life has nought beside for me
So sweet as this despair.
There are crush'd hearts that will not break;
And mine, methinks, is one;
Or thus I should not weep and wake,
And thou to slumber gone.
I little thought it thus could be
In days more sad and fair
That earth could have a place for me,
And thou no longer there.
Yet death cannot our hearts divide,
Or make thee less my own:
Twere sweeter sleeping at thy side
Than watching here alone.
Yet never, never can we part,
While Memory holds her reign:
Thine, thine is still this wither'd heart,
Till we shall meet again.
One dark, dark night--it was long ago,
The air was heavy and still and warm -
It fell to me and a man I know,
To see two girls to their father's farm.
There was little seeing, that I recall:
We seemed to grope in a cave profound.
They might have come by a painful fall,
Had we not helped them over the ground.
The girls were sisters. Both were fair,
But mine was the fairer (so I say).
The dark soon severed us, pair from pair,
And not long after we lost our way.
We wandered over the country-side,
And we frightened most of the sheep about,
And I do not think that we greatly tried,
Having lost our way, to find it out.
The night being fine, it was not worth while.
We strayed through furrow and corn and grass
We met with many a fence and stile,
And a quickset hedge, which we failed to pass.
At last we came on a road she knew;
She said we were near her father's place.
I heard the steps of the other two,
And my heart stood still for a moment's space.
Then I pleaded, `Give me a good-night kiss.'
I have learned, but I did not know in time,
The fruits that hang on the tree of bliss
Are not for cravens who will not climb.
We met all four by the farmyard gate,
We parted laughing, with half a sigh,
And home we went, at a quicker rate,
A shorter journey, my friend and I.
When we reached the house, it was late enough,
And many impertinent things were said,
Of time and distance, and such dull stuff,
But we said little, and went to bed.
We went to bed, but one at least
Went not to sleep till the black turned grey,
And the sun rose up, and the light increased,
And the birds awoke to a summer day.
And sometimes now, when the nights are mild,
And the moon is away, and no stars shine,
I wander out, and I go half-wild,
To think of the kiss which was not mine.
Let great minds laugh at a grief so small,
Let small minds laugh at a fool so great.
Kind maidens, pity me, one and all.
Shy youths, take warning by this my fate.
Again
I am here
among these lonely
tides of faith
roaring loudly
in my ears.
Lost voices
screaming warnings
in an antique tongue.
Sounds like trumpets
and birds.
Farther away
peace is still alone,
in the forests,
in the hills.
I ask
the world why
it mocks man.
It just smiles
sarcastically,
and whistles.
What needs complaints,
When she a place
Has with the race
Of saints?
In endless mirth,
She thinks not on
What's said or done
In earth:
She sees no tears,
Or any tone
Of thy deep groan
She hears;
Nor does she mind,
Or think on't now,
That ever thou
Wast kind:--
But changed above,
She likes not there,
As she did here,
Thy love.
--Forbear, therefore,
And lull asleep
Thy woes, and weep
No more.
Have you ever had that feeling?
That you are completely lost.
Your mind and senses reeling,
As in a dark foreboding frost.
Nothing but nothing is as it seems,
Words like phantoms come and go.
It is as if all the bizarre dreams,
Have turned your brain to snow.
The ticking of the mantelpiece clock,
Cuts the silence like a knife.
Your mind is in a mysterious block,
You ask yourself is this my life.
Perhaps I am just getting old,
Brain and body gone to pot,
Where are the times that I was bold,
And my brain could solve every plot.
your screaming while she sits there.
I bet you dont know that shes soaking it all in.
Shes switching parents every week or so..
to young ot know exactly whats going on.
The loud sirens repeating over and over
blue red& white lights circle around the room.
shes taken to her mom and never saw her dad
ever again.
He will never leave her heard nor mind.
She moved far away from him and started a new life.
The new dad wasnt the same as the last
and didnt stay long either.
She stresses out as so many things are happening,
in her life right now.
shes growing up and scared of it.
feels like somtimes she wants to runaway
but doesnt knwo where to runaway too.
confused and lost little girl.
If you sit down at set of sun
And count the acts that you have done,
And, counting, find
One self-denying deed, one word
That eased the heart of him who heard,
One glance most kind
That fell like sunshine where it went --
Then you may count that day well spent.
But if, through all the livelong day,
You've cheered no heart, by yea or nay --
If, through it all
You've nothing done that you can trace
That brought the sunshine to one face--
No act most small
That helped some soul and nothing cost --
Then count that day as worse than lost.
Embraced in the rythm of an eye closing hug,
Standing on the front porch and the welcome rug,
Is where I left you after a mine blowing night,
Of discovery of laughter of doing what is right,
But in my heart I fought with my mind,
Of wanting to kiss you and take you for mine,
Into my bedroom for pleasures beyond fun,
Where we would blend into each other and collapse as one,
Now the dream is over and I have lost,
The chance to see you again was not worth the cost,
Of the lack of action for being a gentleman__
2001
After dark
Near the South Dakota border,
The moon is out hunting, everywhere,
Delivering fire,
And walking down hallways
Of a diamond.
Behind a tree,
It ights on the ruins
Of a white city
Frost, frost.
Where are they gone
Who lived there?
Bundled away under wings
And dark faces.
I am sick
Of it, and I go on
Living, alone, alone,
Past the charred silos, past the hidden graves
Of Chippewas and Norwegians.
This cold winter
Moon spills the inhuman fire
Of jewels
Into my hands.
Dead riches, dead hands, the moon
Darkens,
And I am lost in the beautiful white ruins
Of America.
He who hath glory lost, nor hath
Found any soul to fellow his,
Among his foes in scorn and wrath
Holding to ancient nobleness,
That high unconsortable one ---
His love is his companion.
When the desperation hit
When the people cried in the streets
When everything felt at loss
Hope stayed, even though fleaing would be easier
When the eyes were full of tears.
When kids and families were torn apart
By that last desperate grasp
Hope tried
When all else gave up
When all else backed off
When people lost all they had
Hope flew
When they cried
When the world was shocked with desperation and dispair
When nothing seemed good
Hope worked
When those four planes crashed
When the buildings fell
When the lives were lost
Hope was there
Hope was only a tiny glimmer
Hope was still there
She ran to those who needed her
She worked to help
When all else failed
Hope didn't
She flew through us all
Letting us know, we still had her
We just needed to look hard enough
Hope was there
Hope remembers
256
If I'm lost—now
That I was found—
Shall still my transport be—
That once—on me—those Jasper Gates
Blazed open—suddenly—
That in my awkward—gazing—face—
The Angels—softly peered—
And touched me with their fleeces,
Almost as if they cared—
I'm banished—now—you know it—
How foreign that can be—
You'll know—Sir—when the Savior's face
Turns so—away from you—
29
If those I loved were lost
The Crier's voice would tell me—
If those I loved were found
The bells of Ghent would ring—
Did those I loved repose
The Daisy would impel me.
Philip—when bewildered
Bore his riddle in!
181
I lost a World - the other day!
Has Anybody found?
You'll know it by the Row of Stars
Around its forehead bound.
A Rich man—might not notice it—
Yet—to my frugal Eye,
Of more Esteem than Ducats—
Oh find it—Sir—for me!
49
I never lost as much but twice,
And that was in the sod.
Twice have I stood a beggar
Before the door of God!
Angels—twice descending
Reimbursed my store—
Burglar! Banker—Father!
I am poor once more!
The last of day gathers
in the yellow parlor
and drifts like fine dust
across the face of
the gilt-framed mirror
I ofien prayed to.
An old man's room
without him, a room I
came back to again
and again to steal
cigarettes and loose change,
to open cans of sardines,
to break open crackers
and share what he had.
Something is missing.
The cut glass ashtray
is here and overflowing,
the big bottle of homemade,
the pack of English Ovals,
the new red bicycle deck
wrapped in cellophane
and gold edged, the dishes
crusted with the last snack.
The music is gone. The lilt
of his worn voice broken
with the weight of all
those lost languages --
"If you knew Solly like
I knew Solly, oy oy
oy what a girl." That music
made new each day and absent
forever from the corners
ofrooms like this one
darkening with dusk.
The music a boy would laugh
at until it went out
and days began and ended
without the banging fist,
without the old truths
of blood and water, without
the loud cries of I won,
you lost, without song.
Near by the silent waters of the Mediterranean,
And at the door of an old hut stood a coloured man,
Whose dress was oriental in style and poor with wear,
While adown his furrowed cheeks ran many a tear.
And the poor coloured man seemed very discontent,
And his grief overcame him at this moment;
And he wrung his hands in agony wild,
And he cried, "Oh! help me, great God, to find my child."
"And Ada, my dear wife, but now she is dead,
Which fills my poor heart with sorrow and dread;
She was a very loving wife, but of her I'm bereft,
And I and my lost child are only left.
And, alas! I know not where to find my boy,
Who is dear to me and my only joy;
But with the help of God I will find him,
And this day in search of him I will begin."
So Medoo leaves Turkey and goes to France,
Expecting to find his boy there perhaps by chance;
And while there in Paris he was told
His boy by an Arab had been sold
To a company of French players that performed in the street,
Which was sad news to hear about his boy Popeet;
And while searching for him and making great moan,
He was told he was ill and in Madame Mercy's Home.
Then away went Medoo with his heart full of joy,
To gaze upon the face of his long-lost boy;
Who had been treated by the players mercilessly,
But was taken to the home of Madame Celeste.
She was a member of the players and the leader's wife,
And she loved the boy Popeet as dear as her life,
Because she had no children of her own;
And for the poor ill-treated boy often she did moan.
And when Popeet's father visited the Home,
He was shown into a room where Popeet lay alone,
Pale and emaciated, in his little bed;
And when his father saw him he thought he was dead.
And when Popeet saw his father he lept out of bed,
And only that his father caught him he'd been killed dead;
And his father cried, " Popeet, my own darling boy,
Thank God I've found you, and my heart's full of joy."
Then Madame Mercy's tears fell thick and fast,
When she saw that Popeet had found his father at last;
Then poor Popeet was taken home without delay,
And lived happy with his father for many a day.
Matron! the children of whose love,
Each to his grave, in youth have passed,
And now the mould is heaped above
The dearest and the last!
Bride! who dost wear the widow's veil
Before the wedding flowers are pale!
Ye deem the human heart endures
No deeper, bitterer grief than yours.
Yet there are pangs of keener wo,
Of which the sufferers never speak,
Nor to the world's cold pity show
The tears that scald the cheek,
Wrung from their eyelids by the shame
And guilt of those they shrink to name,
Whom once they loved, with cheerful will,
And love, though fallen and branded, still.
Weep, ye who sorrow for the dead,
Thus breaking hearts their pain relieve;
And graceful are the tears ye shed,
And honoured ye who grieve.
The praise of those who sleep in earth,
The pleasant memory of their worth,
The hope to meet when life is past,
Shall heal the tortured mind at last.
But ye, who for the living lost
That agony in secret bear,
Who shall with soothing words accost
The strength of your despair?
Grief for your sake is scorn for them
Whom ye lament and all condemn;
And o'er the world of spirits lies
A gloom from which ye turn your eyes.
You are a beautiful woman in a room of candles,
The aroma of jasmine drifts from the terrace,
I’ll sleep with you beneath the stars
And I’ll unlatch the shoes from your feet,
There is no place upon your small body
I would ever consider too undignified to kiss.
Loneliness has been the dark lens
Coloring your perceptions,
You have left your prayers unspoken
In loveless childhood sanctuaries
Violated by the cruel
Who taught you through violence and abuse
You can only trust yourself.
It is understood, I can’t keep you,
You have no desire for a second husband,
Even the most pleasing lovers can become brutes,
But for now I will romance your mind
And learn to delicately touch your mouth,
And you will remember me later
When we are both lost again in separate jungles.
Like a dry fish flung inland far from shore,
There lived a sailor, warped and ocean-browned,
Who told of an old vessel, harbor-drowned,
And out of mind a century before,
Where divers, on descending to explore
A legend that had lived its way around
The world of ships, in the dark hulk had found
Anchors, which had been seized and seen no more.
Improving a dry leiure to invest
Their misadventure with a manifest
Analogy that he may read who runs,
The sailor made it old as ocean grass--
Telling of much that once had come to pass
With him, whose mother should have had no sons.
A Mermaid’s not a human thing,
An’ courtin’ such is folly;
Of flesh an’ blood I’d rather sing,
What ain’t so melancholy.
Oh, Berta! Loo! Jaunita! Sue!
Here’s good luck to me and you—
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is wide;
But this I’ll prove whate’er betide,
I’m bully in the alley!
I’m bull-ee in our al-lee!
The Hooghli gal’er face is brown;
The Hilo gal is lazy;
The gal that lives by ’Obart town
She’d drive a dead man crazy;
Come, wet your lip, and let it slip!
The Gretna Green’s a tidy ship—
Sing rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is blue;
But ’ere’s good ’ealth to me and you,
Ho, rally!
The Lord may drop us off our pins
To feed ’is bloomin’ fishes;
But Lord forgive us for our sins—
Our sins is most delicious!
Come, drink it up and fill yer cup!
The world it owes us bite and sup,
And Mimi, Ju-Ju, Sally;
The seas is long; the winds is strong;
The best of men they will go wrong—
Hi, rally! ri-a-rally!
The Bowery gal she knows ’er know;
The Frisco gal is silly;
The Hayti gal ain’t white as snow—
They’re whiter down in Chili.
Now what’s the use to shun the booze?
They’ll flop your bones among the ooze
Sou’-west-by-Sou’ the galley.
The seas is green; the seas is cold;
The best of men they must grow old—
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
All round the world where’er I roam,
This lesson I am learnin’:
If you’ve got sense you’ll stop at home
And save the bit yer earnin’.
So hang the odds! It’s little odds,
When every ’eathen ’as ’is gods,
And neither two will tally:
When black and white drink, wimmin, fight—
In these three things they’re all alright—
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
When double bunks, Fo’castle end,
Is all the kind that’s carried,
Our manners they will likely mend—
Most likely we’ll be married.
But till sich time as that be done,
We’ll take our fun as we’ve begun—
Sing rally!
The flesh is weak; the world is wide;
The dead man ’e goes overside—
Sing rally! rally!
We’re given and lost to the girls that wait
From Trinity to Whitsund’y,
From Sunda Strait to the Golden Gate
An’ back to the Bay o’ Fundy;
Oh, it’s Mabel, Loo, an’ it’s Nancy-Poo,
An’ ’ere’s good luck, an’ I love you—
Sing rally!
Oh, it’s cents an’ dollars an’ somebody hollers—
The sun comes up an’ the mornin’ follers—
Sing rally!
We’re given an’ lost to the octoroon,
The Portugee cruiser painty,
The Chinkie gal with ’er eyes ’arf-moon,
An’ the Japanee darlin’ dainty.
Oh, it’s Tokio-town when the sun goes down,
It’s ’arf-a-pint and it’s ’arf-a-crown—
Sing rally!
’Er spars may lift an’ ’er keel can shift,
When a man is done ’e ’s got to drift—
Sing rally! Ho, rally!
The Hooghli gal ’er face is brown,
The Hilo gal’s a daisy,
The gal that lives by ’Obart town
She’d drive a dead man crazy.
So, pretty an’ plain, it’s Sarah Jane
’Uggin’ an’ kissin’ an’ ‘Come again!’
Sing rally! ri-a-rally!
The seas is deep; the seas is wide;
But this I’ll prove what else betide,
I’m bully in the alley,
Ho! Bullee in the Al-lee!
For those who don’t already know
This poem is not going to glow and flow
It lost its freedom years ago
Guess who dictates how the current theme goes
Arise, Arise!
Freedom is nice
Yet freedom itself comes with a price
Hence the never-ending sacrifice
After years of people giving up lives
Assisting us with out struggle to survive
To end slavery, to gain independence & to acquire autonomy
We have become the latest kind of slave, a slave of technology
Our phone conversations are listened to
Yet there is no one you can sue
Technology is watching us from cameras & satellites
Taking away our precious privacy rights
Freedom of speech, to those I outreach
Does not exist, I teach
Say the wrong things and you will be impeached
So whilst we have taken
One step forward,
We have also taken
Two steps backwards
We the slaves of new technology
Why do we embrace this new ideology?
Everything about you
Can be accessed from a central database
Is this just the beginning of a new phase?
So Arise, Arise!
Freedom is nice
But the price of freedom itself
equals the withdrawal of freedom for some
Hence the never-ending sacrifice
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
It’s a warm summer night,
warmer still where she is,
lost in awhile ago.
His body spooned behind,
feathery sleep sounds in her ear,
with echoes of other sounds
from moments before.
The gentle breeze feels nice,
it cools the lusty beads
pearled across her forehead,
making skin feel like skin again.
A warm summer night,
inside her as well.
Eyes closed she smiles,
lost in awhile ago.
I'm lost in the darkness
And i can't see the light
I'm lost
I can't find any hope
All i see is the darkness in all
I just want to see the light
Can someone help me see the light?
I'm lost inside
I want to get out of the darkness
can someone help me see the light
I just want to be free to see the light
I cant seem to trust anyone
they always turn their backs on me
they have no hope for me to see the light
im lost inside
i wish someone could help me
im lost in the darkness
Lost in the forest, I broke off a dark twig
and lifted its whisper to my thirsty lips:
maybe it was the voice of the rain crying,
a cracked bell, or a torn heart.
Something from far off it seemed
deep and secret to me, hidden by the earth,
a shout muffled by huge autumns,
by the moist half-open darkness of the leaves.
Wakening from the dreaming forest there, the hazel-sprig
sang under my tongue, its drifting fragrance
climbed up through my conscious mind
as if suddenly the roots I had left behind
cried out to me, the land I had lost with my childhood---
and I stopped, wounded by the wandering scent.
In one of fhe States of America, some years ago,
There suddenly came on a violent storm of snow,
Which was nearly the death of a party of workmen,
Who had finished their day's work - nine or ten of them.
The distance was nearly twenty miles to their camp,
And with the thick falling snow their clothes felt damp,
As they set out for their camp, which was in a large grove,
And to reach it, manfully against the storm they strove.
The wind blew very hard, and the snow was falling fast,
Still, they plodded on, but felt a little downcast,
And the snow fell so fast they could scarcely see,
And they began to think they were lost on the wild prairie.
And they suddenly noticed marks of footsteps in the snow,
Which they found were their own tracks, as onward they did go,
Then they knew they were lost on the great prairie,
And what could they do in such a fearful extremity?
Then their hearts began to sink with woe,
In dread of having to pass the night in the snow,
And they cried, "Oh, God help us to find our way,
Or else we are lost on the lonely prairie."
And while they stood shivering with the cold,
One of the party a particular horse did behold,
Which was known by the name of Old Jack,
So to take off his bridle they were not slack.
When the horse was let free he threw up his head and tail,
Which seemed to say, "Follow ms, and ye will not fail.
So come on, boys, and follow me,
And I'll guide ye home safely."
And they cried, " Old Jack can show us the way,
So let's follow his tracks without dismay";
And with the falling snow they were chilled to the bone,
But the horse seemed to say, "I'll show ye home."
And at last they gave a shout of delight
When they saw their camp fire burning bright,
Which was to them a cheerful sight,
And they caressed Old Jack for guiding them home that night.
And they felt thankful to God for their safety,
And they danced around Old Jack with their hearts full of glee,
And Old Jack became a favourite from that day,
Because he saved them from being lost on the wild prairie.
I.
Just for a handful of silver he left us,
Just for a riband to stick in his coat---
Found the one gift of which fortune bereft us,
Lost all the others she lets us devote;
They, with the gold to give, doled him out silver,
So much was theirs who so little allowed:
How all our copper had gone for his service!
Rags---were they purple, his heart had been proud!
We that had loved him so, followed him, honoured him,
Lived in his mild and magnificent eye,
Learned his great language, caught his clear accents,
Made him our pattern to live and to die!
Shakespeare was of us, Milton was for us,
Burns, Shelley, were with us,---they watch from their graves!
He alone breaks from the van and the free-men,
---He alone sinks to the rear and the slaves!
II.
We shall march prospering,---not thro' his presence;
Songs may inspirit us,---not from his lyre;
Deeds will be done,---while he boasts his quiescence,
Still bidding crouch whom the rest bade aspire:
Blot out his name, then, record one lost soul more,
One task more declined, one more foot-path untrod,
One more devils'-triumph and sorrow for angels,
One wrong more to man, one more insult to God!
Life's night begins: let him never come back to us!
There would be doubt, hesitation and pain,
Forced praise on our part---the glimmer of twilight,
Never glad confident morning again!
Best fight on well, for we taught him---strike gallantly,
Menace our heart ere we master his own;
Then let him receive the new knowledge and wait us,
Pardoned in heaven, the first by the throne!
His eyes are quickened so with grief,
He can watch a grass or leaf
Every instant grow; he can
Clearly through a flint wall see,
Or watch the startled spirit flee
From the throat of a dead man.
Across two counties he can hear
And catch your words before you speak.
The woodlouse or the maggot's weak
Clamour rings in his sad ear,
And noise so slight it would surpass
Credence--drinking sound of grass,
Worm talk, clashing jaws of moth
Chumbling holes in cloth;
The groan of ants who undertake
Gigantic loads for honour's sake
(Their sinews creak, their breath comes thin);
Whir of spiders when they spin,
And minute whispering, mumbling, sighs
Of idle grubs and flies.
This man is quickened so with grief,
He wanders god-like or like thief
Inside and out, below, above,
Without relief seeking lost love.
I.
All's over, then: does truth sound bitter
As one at first believes?
Hark, 'tis the sparrows' good-night twitter
About your cottage eaves!
II.
And the leaf-buds on the vine are woolly,
I noticed that, to-day;
One day more bursts them open fully
---You know the red turns grey.
III.
To-morrow we meet the same then, dearest?
May I take your hand in mine?
Mere friends are we,---well, friends the merest
Keep much that I resign:
IV.
For each glance of the eye so bright and black,
Though I keep with heart's endeavour,---
Your voice, when you wish the snowdrops back,
Though it stay in my soul for ever!---
V.
Yet I will but say what mere friends say,
Or only a thought stronger;
I will hold your hand but as long as all may,
Or so very little longer!
Mr. Blake was a regular out-and-out hardened sinner,
Who was quite out of the pale of Christianity, so to speak,
He was in the habit of smoking a long pipe and drinking a glass of
grog on a Sunday after dinner,
And seldom thought of going to church more than twice or - if Good
Friday or Christmas Day happened to come in it - three times a
week.
He was quite indifferent as to the particular kinds of dresses
That the clergyman wore at church where he used to go to pray,
And whatever he did in the way of relieving a chap's distresses,
He always did in a nasty, sneaking, underhanded, hole-and-corner
sort of way.
I have known him indulge in profane, ungentlemanly emphatics,
When the Protestant Church has been divided on the subject of the
proper width of a chasuble's hem;
I have even known him to sneer at albs - and as for dalmatics,
Words can't convey an idea of the contempt he expressed for THEM.
He didn't believe in persons who, not being well off themselves,
are obliged to confine their charitable exertions to collecting
money from wealthier people,
And looked upon individuals of the former class as ecclesiastical
hawks;
He used to say that he would no more think of interfering with his
priest's robes than with his church or his steeple,
And that he did not consider his soul imperilled because somebody
over whom he had no influence whatever, chose to dress himself up
like an exaggerated GUY FAWKES.
This shocking old vagabond was so unutterably shameless
That he actually went a-courting a very respectable and pious
middle-aged sister, by the name of BIGGS.
She was a rather attractive widow, whose life as such had always
been particularly blameless;
Her first husband had left her a secure but moderate competence,
owing to some fortunate speculations in the matter of figs.
She was an excellent person in every way - and won the respect even
of MRS. GRUNDY,
She was a good housewife, too, and wouldn't have wasted a penny if
she had owned the Koh-i-noor.
She was just as strict as he was lax in her observance of Sunday,
And being a good economist, and charitable besides, she took all
the bones and cold potatoes and broken pie-crusts and candle-ends
(when she had quite done with them), and made them into an
excellent soup for the deserving poor.
I am sorry to say that she rather took to BLAKE - that outcast of
society,
And when respectable brothers who were fond of her began to look
dubious and to cough,
She would say, "Oh, my friends, it's because I hope to bring this
poor benighted soul back to virtue and propriety,
And besides, the poor benighted soul, with all his faults, was
uncommonly well off.
And when MR. BLAKE'S dissipated friends called his attention to the
frown or the pout of her,
Whenever he did anything which appeared to her to savour of an
unmentionable place,
He would say that "she would be a very decent old girl when all
that nonsense was knocked out of her,"
And his method of knocking it out of her is one that covered him
with disgrace.
She was fond of going to church services four times every Sunday,
and, four or five times in the week, and never seemed to pall of
them,
So he hunted out all the churches within a convenient distance that
had services at different hours, so to speak;
And when he had married her he positively insisted upon their going
to all of them,
So they contrived to do about twelve churches every Sunday, and, if
they had luck, from twenty-two to twenty-three in the course of the
week.
She was fond of dropping his sovereigns ostentatiously into the
plate, and she liked to see them stand out rather conspicuously
against the commonplace half-crowns and shillings,
So he took her to all the charity sermons, and if by any
extraordinary chance there wasn't a charity sermon anywhere, he
would drop a couple of sovereigns (one for him and one for her)
into the poor-box at the door;
And as he always deducted the sums thus given in charity from the
housekeeping money, and the money he allowed her for her bonnets
and frillings,
She soon began to find that even charity, if you allow it to
interfere with your personal luxuries, becomes an intolerable bore.
On Sundays she was always melancholy and anything but good society,
For that day in her household was a day of sighings and sobbings
and wringing of hands and shaking of heads:
She wouldn't hear of a button being sewn on a glove, because it was
a work neither of necessity nor of piety,
And strictly prohibited her servants from amusing themselves, or
indeed doing anything at all except dusting the drawing-rooms,
cleaning the boots and shoes, cooking the parlour dinner, waiting
generally on the family, and making the beds.
But BLAKE even went further than that, and said that people should
do their own works of necessity, and not delegate them to persons
in a menial situation,
So he wouldn't allow his servants to do so much as even answer a
bell.
Here he is making his wife carry up the water for her bath to the
second floor, much against her inclination, -
And why in the world the gentleman who illustrates these ballads
has put him in a cocked hat is more than I can tell.
After about three months of this sort of thing, taking the smooth
with the rough of it,
(Blacking her own boots and peeling her own potatoes was not her
notion of connubial bliss),
MRS. BLAKE began to find that she had pretty nearly had enough of
it,
And came, in course of time, to think that BLAKE'S own original
line of conduct wasn't so much amiss.
And now that wicked person - that detestable sinner ("BELIAL BLAKE"
his friends and well-wishers call him for his atrocities),
And his poor deluded victim, whom all her Christian brothers
dislike and pity so,
Go to the parish church only on Sunday morning and afternoon and
occasionally on a week-day, and spend their evenings in connubial
fondlings and affectionate reciprocities,
And I should like to know where in the world (or rather, out of it)
they expect to go!
As when two men have loved a woman well,
Each hating each, through Love's and Death's deceit;
Since not for either this stark marriage-sheet
And the long pauses of this wedding bell;
Yet o'er her grave the night and day dispel
At last their feud forlorn, with cold and heat;
Nor other than dear friends to death may fleet
The two lives left that most of her can tell:
So separate hopes, which in a soul had wooed
The one same Peace, strove with each other long,
And Peace before their faces perished since:
So through that soul, in restless brotherhood,
They roam together now, and wind among
Its bye-streets, knocking at the dusty inns.
Up from the poor man's cottage--
Forth from the mansion door;
Sweeping across the waters,
And echoing 'long the shore;
Caught by the morning breezes--
Borne on the evening gale;
Cometh a voice of mourning,
A sad and solemn wail.
Lost on the Lady Elgin!
Sleeping to wake no more!
Number'd in that three hundred,
Who fail'd to reach the shore!
Oh! 'tis the cry of children,
Weeping for parents gone;
Children who slept at evening,
But orphans woke at dawn.
Sisters for brothers weeping,
Husbands for missing wives--
Such are the ties dis-sever'd
With those three hundred live.
Staunch was the noble steamer--
Precious the freight she bore;
Gaily she loosed her cables,
A few short hours before.
Grandly she swept out harbor,
Joyfully ran her bell;
Little thought we, 'ere morning,
'Twould toll so sad a knell.
I'm sorry for the pain i caused.
I'm sorry for the tears i made you cry.
I'm sorry for the lies i told you.
I'm sorry that I'm not perfect for you.
I’m sorry for not being there when I said I would.
I’m sorry for causing so much trouble in this life time.
I’m sorry for always doing the wrong thing.
I'm sorry I'm a failure to you.
but i can't help being me.
I’m sorry i caused you so much misserie.
Im sorry if i ever loved you or someone.
I am sorry
"He ought to be home," said the old man, "without there's something amiss.
He only went to the Two-mile -- he ought to be back by this.
He would ride the Reckless filly, he would have his wilful way;
And, here, he's not back at sundown -- and what will his mother say?
"He was always his mother's idol, since ever his father died;
And there isn't a horse on the station that he isn't game to ride.
But that Reckless mare is vicious, and if once she gets away
He hasn't got strength to hold her -- and what will his mother say?"
The old man walked to the sliprail, and peered up the dark'ning track,
And looked and longed for the rider that would never more come back;
And the mother came and clutched him, with sudden, spasmodic fright:
"What has become of my Willie? Why isn't he home tonight?"
Away in the gloomy ranges, at the foot of an ironbark,
The bonnie, winsome laddie was lying stiff and stark;
For the Reckless mare had smashed him against a leaning limb,
And his comely face was battered, and his merry eyes were dim.
And the thoroughbred chestnut filly, the saddle beneath her flanks,
Was away like fire through the ranges to join the wild mob's ranks;
And a broken-hearted woman and an old man worn and grey
Were searching all night in the ranges till the sunrise brought the day.
And the mother kept feebly calling, with a hope that would not die,
"Willie! where are you, Willie?" But how can the dead reply;
And hope died out with the daylight, and the darkness brought despair,
God pity the stricken mother, and answer the widow's prayer!
Though far and wide they sought him, they found not where he fell;
For the ranges held him precious, and guarded their treasure well.
The wattle blooms above him, and the bluebells blow close by,
And the brown bees buzz the secret, and the wild birds sing reply.
But the mother pined and faded, and cried, and took no rest,
And rode each day to the ranges on her hopeless, weary quest.
Seeking her loved one ever, she faded and pined away,
But with strength of her great affection she still sought every day.
"I know that sooner or later I shall find my boy," she said.
But she came not home one evening, and they found her lying dead.
And stamped on the poor pale features, as the spirit homeward pass'd,
Was an angel smile of gladness -- she had found the boy at last.
Another love lost, another love gone, just as the day done
I know another love will come.
But the love I lost I will never regain, Oh how could I
Had been a fool. To think our love would endure so much
hardship and pain. Now I see that I was wrong because
My love is gone.
Desolate and lone
All night long on the lake
Where fog trails and mist creeps,
The whistle of a boat
Calls and cries unendingly,
Like some lost child
In tears and trouble
Hunting the harbor's breast
And the harbor's eyes.
Lost in a world, that scares me to death,
Lost in a crowd, I'm losing my breath.
Lost as a boy, lost as a man,
I need to grow up, don't think I can.
Lost as a person, can't find my way.
Lost in life, every day.
Lost in worry, who am I?
All my life, I've lived a lie.
Lost to kindness, lost to love,
Lost in a sky, like a new-born dove.
Lost in thought, which I shouldn't do,
It winds me up, I can’t get through.
Lost to comfort, all kind words,
Lost to advice, it isn't heard.
Lost to those who really care,
All these people, always there.
Lost in me, I need a break,
Lost in wonder, which road to take?
Lost in a place I don't know well,
Where are you now? There's no one to tell.
Lost here, all alone,
Lost apart from the mobile phone.
Lost still, there are no calls.
I'm struggling alone, to break these walls.
Lost in mind, lost in soul,
Lost memories, they're just a hole.
Lost family, lost mate,
Gone now, yet I'm full of hate.
Lost in a straight world, and I am gay,
Lost now, for what to say,
Lost in boredom, think I'll leave.
There's a lot in life I need to achieve.
You left me with the autumn time;
When the winter stripped the forest bare,
Then dressed it in his spotless rime;
When frosts were lurking in the air
You left me here and went away.
The winds were cold; you could not stay.
You sought a warmer clime, until
The south wind, artful maid, should break
The winter's trumpets, and should fill
The air with songs of birds; and wake
The sleeping blossoms on the plain
And make the brooks to flow again.
I thought that the winter desolate,
And all times felt a sense of loss.
I taught my longing heart to wait,
And said, 'When Spring shall come across
The hills, with blossoms in her track,
The she, our loved one, will come back.'
And now the hills with grass and moss
The spring with cunning hands has spread,
And yet I feel my grievous loss.
My heart will not be comforted,
But crieth daily, 'Where is she
You promised should come back to me? '
Oh, love! where are you? day by day
I seek to find you, but in vain.
Men point me to a grave, and say:
'There is her bed upon the plain.'
But though I see no trace of you,
I cannot thiink their words are true.
You were too sweet to wholly pass
Away from earth, and leave no trace;
You were to fair to let the grass
Grow rank and tall above your face.
Your voice, that mocked the robin's trill,
I cannot think is hushed and still.
I thought I saw your golden hair
One day, and reached to touch a strand;
I found but yellow sunbeams there -
The bright rays fell aslant my hand,
And seemed to mock, with lights and shades,
The silken meshes of your braids.
Again, I thought I saw your hand
Wave, as if beckoning to me;
I found 'twas but a lily, fanned
By the cool zephyrs from the sea.
Oh, love! I find no trace of you -
I wonder if their words were true?
One day I heard a singing voice;
A burst of music, trill on trill.
It made my very soul rejoice;
My heart gave and exultant thrill.
I cried, 'Oh heart, we've found her - hush! '
But no - 'twas the silver-throated thrush.
And once I thought I saw your face,
And wild with joy I ran to you;
But found, when I had reached the place,
'Twas a blush rose, bathed in dew.
Ah, love! I think you must be dead;
And I believe the words they said.
I lost everything when i lost you.
I lost my life when i lost you.
I lost my senses when I find my self in a deep misery.
I lost my pride when I lost my potency of loving you.
I never stop my self to love you.
I apart my self from your loving thought.
I lost everything when I lost you.
I am lost in my own world.
I am looking at you in my blur eyes.
I know you will come to me.
And I will get everything I wanted.
I will not lose anything because you are not lost for me.
Your sweet and tender smile gives me the pleasure of this world.
It’s a gift from heaven when I will find you in my arm
But I just lost my way to get back to you.
I lost everything when I lost you.
Lost
As I lay down and stare at my misshapen shadow/
What I could have had/ Lost/
What I would have had/ Lost/
What I did have/Lost/
For what purpose? For the envy of my youth? No something bigger/
Something unrealistic/ something perpetually impeccable to my being/
Something Lustful, something to live for in the minute…something I didn’t need/
No drug could take the place of love/ No formula could ignite mass theories to my emptiness/ No cure could be concocted to insure my esteem to be high/
For my mind/ Lost
My Peace/ Lost
I was Lost/
Serving under something so majestic, I am not worthy/ I a sinner walking on a path to nothing/ I stand alone in my battle for peace or so in my head/ Do not criticize me, for I am human/ But I ask forgiveness, which I hope to be entitled to/ Father help me/
For my intelligence/ Lost/
My deliverance/ Lost/
My essence/ Lost/
But in god I trust and I uphold this truth /For this is a mere stepping stone in the staircase to life/ Save me Father for I am Lost/For I am living in the moment/
In the heart where
lier's lay
In the arms
of despair
Where all
lost souls do go
I linger there
Moon never shines
skies are black
And the sun is lost
Where misery dwells
Is where you'll find
me
Walking the path of
death valley
A lost soul
Began to be found
But i am where no
one will ever go
Even to save a very lost
soul
Lost in the world
where all
lost souls go
Jack Kerouac wrote somewhere
America is a lonely crocashit.
I scribbled it down
And my ex-wife placed it
In Pablo Neruda’s book
Twenty Love Poems And A Song Of Despair.
I found it years after she was gone
And it made everything
Seem logical and reasonable.
But it is not just America:
Every place is afflicted
With terrible stinging tears
And loveless lives
And unfulfilled longing.
Like Kerouac, most poets
Are sad alcoholics;
Maybe everyone in the world
Is a lost poet.
When the creation was new and all the stars shone in their first
splendor, the gods held their assembly in the sky and sang
`Oh, the picture of perfection! the joy unalloyed!'
But one cried of a sudden
---`It seems that somewhere there is a break in the chain of light
and one of the stars has been lost.'
The golden string of their harp snapped,
their song stopped, and they cried in dismay
---`Yes, that lost star was the best,
she was the glory of all heavens!'
From that day the search is unceasing for her,
and the cry goes on from one to the other
that in her the world has lost its one joy!
Only in the deepest silence of night the stars smile
and whisper among themselves
---`Vain is this seeking! unbroken perfection is over all!'
On many an idle day have I grieved over lost time.
But it is never lost, my lord.
Thou hast taken every moment of my life in thine own hands.
Hidden in the heart of things thou art nourishing seeds into sprouts,
buds into blossoms, and ripening flowers into fruitfulness.
I was tired and sleeping on my idle bed
and imagined all work had ceased.
In the morning I woke up
and found my garden full with wonders of flowers.
How can you gather together
the thousand fragments
of each person?
What's wrong with the rudder?
The boat inscribes circles
and there's not a single gull.
The world sinks:
hang on, it'll leave you
alone in the sun.
You write:
the ink grew less,
the sea increases.
The body that hoped to flower like a branch,
to bear fruit, to become like a flute in the frost —
imagination has thrust it into a noisy bee-hive
so that musical time can come and torture it.
Lost you, lost everything,
Lost the dream for being your forever,
Lost my each kind of feeling.
Lost your love, lost happiness,
Lost in loneliness, lost being mild,
Lost you, lost even how to express.
Lost you somewhere, finding here and there,
Lost my love But could not find you,
Lost you and feeling just despair.
Lost my peer - I lost my peer!
Lost you, lost everything,
Lost you, please tell! where are you dear?
Often I think of the beautiful town
That is seated by the sea;
Often in thought go up and down
The pleasant streets of that dear old town,
And my youth comes back to me.
And a verse of a Lapland song
Is haunting my memory still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
I can see the shadowy lines of its trees,
And catch, in sudden gleams,
The sheen of the far-surrounding seas,
And islands that were the Hesperides
Of all my boyish dreams.
And the burden of that old song,
It murmurs and whispers still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
I remember the black wharves and the ships,
And the sea-tides tossing free;
And Spanish sailors with bearded lips,
And the beauty and mystery of the ships,
And the magic of the sea.
And the voice of that wayward song
Is singing and saying still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
I remember the bulwarks by the shore,
And the fort upon the hill;
The sunrise gun, with its hollow roar,
The drum-beat repeated o'er and o'er,
And the bugle wild and shrill.
And the music of that old song
Throbs in my memory still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
I remember the sea-fight far away,
How it thundered o'er the tide!
And the dead captains, as they lay
In their graves, o'erlooking the tranquil bay
Where they in battle died.
And the sound of that mournful song
Goes through me with a thrill:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
I can see the breezy dome of groves,
The shadows of Deering's Woods;
And the friendships old and the early loves
Come back with a Sabbath sound, as of doves
In quiet neighborhoods.
And the verse of that sweet old song,
It flutters and murmurs still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
I remember the gleams and glooms that dart
Across the school-boy's brain;
The song and the silence in the heart,
That in part are prophecies, and in part
Are longings wild and vain.
And the voice of that fitful song
Sings on, and is never still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
There are things of which I may not speak;
There are dreams that cannot die;
There are thoughts that make the strong heart weak,
And bring a pallor into the cheek,
And a mist before the eye.
And the words of that fatal song
Come over me like a chill:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
Strange to me now are the forms I meet
When I visit the dear old town;
But the native air is pure and sweet,
And the trees that o'ershadow each well-known street,
As they balance up and down,
Are singing the beautiful song,
Are sighing and whispering still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
And Deering's Woods are fresh and fair,
And with joy that is almost pain
My heart goes back to wander there,
And among the dreams of the days that were,
I find my lost youth again.
And the strange and beautiful song,
The groves are repeating it still:
"A boy's will is the wind's will,
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts."
There is a pain in my heart
that brings tears in my eyes
I am sad because my love hurts me
My love, like a sky without clouds,
like a river without fishes and
like an ocean without waves
I am sad because my love left me alone
The stars are in the sky are not glittering
The moon in the sky is not sailing
The cool breeze is not touching me
I am sad because my love don't care for me
The truth always become lie
The love always become trouble
The understanding always become fail
I am sad because my love don't trust me
The thoughts in my mind become waste
The dreams in my heart cannot be fulfilled
The life in the world brings me an emptiness
I am sad because my love need me no more
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2004 Ravi Sathasivam
`Now Art has lost its mental charms
France shall subdue the world in arms.'
So spoke an Angel at my birth;
Then said `Descend thou upon earth,
Renew the Arts on Britain's shore,
And France shall fall down and adore.
With works of art their armies meet
And War shall sink beneath thy feet.
But if thy nation Arts refuse,
And if they scorn the immortal Muse,
France shall the arts of peace restore
And save thee from the ungrateful shore.'
Spirit who lov'st Britannia's Isle
Round which the fiends of commerce smile --
When I beheld the Poet blind, yet bold,
In slender Book his vast Design unfold,
Messiah Crown'd, Gods Reconcil'd Decree,
Rebelling Angels, the Forbidden Tree,
Heav'n, Hell, Earth, Chaos, All; the Argument
Held me a while misdoubting his Intent,
That he would ruine (for I saw him strong)
The sacred Truths to Fable and old Song,
(So Sampson groap'd the Temples Posts in spight)
The World o'rewhelming to revenge his Sight.
Yet as I read, soon growing less severe,
I lik'd his Project, the success did fear;
Through that wide Field how he his way should find
O're which lame Faith leads Understanding blind;
Lest he perplext the things he would explain,
And what was easie he should render vain.
Or if a Work so infinite he spann'd,
Jealous I was that some less skilful hand
(Such as disquiet alwayes what is well,
And by ill imitating would excell)
Might hence presume the whole Creations day
To change in Scenes, and show it in a Play.
Pardon me, Mighty Poet, nor despise
My causeless, yet not impious, surmise.
But I am now convinc'd, and none will dare
Within thy Labours to pretend a Share.
Thou hast not miss'd one thought that could be fit,
And all that was improper dost omit:
So that no room is here for Writers left,
But to detect their Ignorance or Theft.
That Majesty which through thy Work doth Reign
Draws the Devout, deterring the Profane.
And things divine thou treats of in such state
As them preserves, and Thee in violate.
At once delight and horrour on us seize,
Thou singst with so much gravity and ease;
And above humane flight dost soar aloft,
With Plume so strong, so equal, and so soft.
The Bird nam'd from that Paradise you sing
So never Flags, but alwaies keeps on Wing.
Where couldst thou Words of such a compass find?
Whence furnish such a vast expense of Mind?
Just Heav'n Thee, like Tiresias, to requite,
Rewards with Prophesie thy loss of Sight.
Well might thou scorn thy Readers to allure
With tinkling Rhime, of thy own Sense secure;
While the Town-Bays writes all the while and spells,
And like a Pack-Horse tires without his Bells.
Their Fancies like our bushy Points appear,
The Poets tag them; we for fashion wear.
I too transported by the Mode offend,
And while I meant to Praise thee, must Commend.
Thy verse created like thy Theme sublime,
In Number, Weight, and Measure, needs not Rhime.
Of Man's first disobedience, and the fruit
Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste
Brought death into the World, and all our woe,
With loss of Eden, till one greater Man
Restore us, and regain the blissful seat,
Sing, Heavenly Muse, that, on the secret top
Of Oreb, or of Sinai, didst inspire
That shepherd who first taught the chosen seed
In the beginning how the heavens and earth
Rose out of Chaos: or, if Sion hill
Delight thee more, and Siloa's brook that flowed
Fast by the oracle of God, I thence
Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song,
That with no middle flight intends to soar
Above th' Aonian mount, while it pursues
Things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme.
And chiefly thou, O Spirit, that dost prefer
Before all temples th' upright heart and pure,
Instruct me, for thou know'st; thou from the first
Wast present, and, with mighty wings outspread,
Dove-like sat'st brooding on the vast Abyss,
And mad'st it pregnant: what in me is dark
Illumine, what is low raise and support;
That, to the height of this great argument,
I may assert Eternal Providence,
And justify the ways of God to men.
Say first--for Heaven hides nothing from thy view,
Nor the deep tract of Hell--say first what cause
Moved our grand parents, in that happy state,
Favoured of Heaven so highly, to fall off
From their Creator, and transgress his will
For one restraint, lords of the World besides.
Who first seduced them to that foul revolt?
Th' infernal Serpent; he it was whose guile,
Stirred up with envy and revenge, deceived
The mother of mankind, what time his pride
Had cast him out from Heaven, with all his host
Of rebel Angels, by whose aid, aspiring
To set himself in glory above his peers,
He trusted to have equalled the Most High,
If he opposed, and with ambitious aim
Against the throne and monarchy of God,
Raised impious war in Heaven and battle proud,
With vain attempt. Him the Almighty Power
Hurled headlong flaming from th' ethereal sky,
With hideous ruin and combustion, down
To bottomless perdition, there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire,
Who durst defy th' Omnipotent to arms.
Nine times the space that measures day and night
To mortal men, he, with his horrid crew,
Lay vanquished, rolling in the fiery gulf,
Confounded, though immortal. But his doom
Reserved him to more wrath; for now the thought
Both of lost happiness and lasting pain
Torments him: round he throws his baleful eyes,
That witnessed huge affliction and dismay,
Mixed with obdurate pride and steadfast hate.
At once, as far as Angels ken, he views
The dismal situation waste and wild.
A dungeon horrible, on all sides round,
As one great furnace flamed; yet from those flames
No light; but rather darkness visible
Served only to discover sights of woe,
Regions of sorrow, doleful shades, where peace
And rest can never dwell, hope never comes
That comes to all, but torture without end
Still urges, and a fiery deluge, fed
With ever-burning sulphur unconsumed.
Such place Eternal Justice has prepared
For those rebellious; here their prison ordained
In utter darkness, and their portion set,
As far removed from God and light of Heaven
As from the centre thrice to th' utmost pole.
Oh how unlike the place from whence they fell!
There the companions of his fall, o'erwhelmed
With floods and whirlwinds of tempestuous fire,
He soon discerns; and, weltering by his side,
One next himself in power, and next in crime,
Long after known in Palestine, and named
Beelzebub. To whom th' Arch-Enemy,
And thence in Heaven called Satan, with bold words
Breaking the horrid silence, thus began:--
"If thou beest he--but O how fallen! how changed
From him who, in the happy realms of light
Clothed with transcendent brightness, didst outshine
Myriads, though bright!--if he whom mutual league,
United thoughts and counsels, equal hope
And hazard in the glorious enterprise
Joined with me once, now misery hath joined
In equal ruin; into what pit thou seest
From what height fallen: so much the stronger proved
He with his thunder; and till then who knew
The force of those dire arms? Yet not for those,
Nor what the potent Victor in his rage
Can else inflict, do I repent, or change,
Though changed in outward lustre, that fixed mind,
And high disdain from sense of injured merit,
That with the Mightiest raised me to contend,
And to the fierce contentions brought along
Innumerable force of Spirits armed,
That durst dislike his reign, and, me preferring,
His utmost power with adverse power opposed
In dubious battle on the plains of Heaven,
And shook his throne. What though the field be lost?
All is not lost--the unconquerable will,
And study of revenge, immortal hate,
And courage never to submit or yield:
And what is else not to be overcome?
That glory never shall his wrath or might
Extort from me. To bow and sue for grace
With suppliant knee, and deify his power
Who, from the terror of this arm, so late
Doubted his empire--that were low indeed;
That were an ignominy and shame beneath
This downfall; since, by fate, the strength of Gods,
And this empyreal sybstance, cannot fail;
Since, through experience of this great event,
In arms not worse, in foresight much advanced,
We may with more successful hope resolve
To wage by force or guile eternal war,
Irreconcilable to our grand Foe,
Who now triumphs, and in th' excess of joy
Sole reigning holds the tyranny of Heaven."
So spake th' apostate Angel, though in pain,
Vaunting aloud, but racked with deep despair;
And him thus answered soon his bold compeer:--
"O Prince, O Chief of many throned Powers
That led th' embattled Seraphim to war
Under thy conduct, and, in dreadful deeds
Fearless, endangered Heaven's perpetual King,
And put to proof his high supremacy,
Whether upheld by strength, or chance, or fate,
Too well I see and rue the dire event
That, with sad overthrow and foul defeat,
Hath lost us Heaven, and all this mighty host
In horrible destruction laid thus low,
As far as Gods and heavenly Essences
Can perish: for the mind and spirit remains
Invincible, and vigour soon returns,
Though all our glory extinct, and happy state
Here swallowed up in endless misery.
But what if he our Conqueror (whom I now
Of force believe almighty, since no less
Than such could have o'erpowered such force as ours)
Have left us this our spirit and strength entire,
Strongly to suffer and support our pains,
That we may so suffice his vengeful ire,
Or do him mightier service as his thralls
By right of war, whate'er his business be,
Here in the heart of Hell to work in fire,
Or do his errands in the gloomy Deep?
What can it the avail though yet we feel
Strength undiminished, or eternal being
To undergo eternal punishment?"
Whereto with speedy words th' Arch-Fiend replied:--
"Fallen Cherub, to be weak is miserable,
Doing or suffering: but of this be sure--
To do aught good never will be our task,
But ever to do ill our sole delight,
As being the contrary to his high will
Whom we resist. If then his providence
Out of our evil seek to bring forth good,
Our labour must be to pervert that end,
And out of good still to find means of evil;
Which ofttimes may succeed so as perhaps
Shall grieve him, if I fail not, and disturb
His inmost counsels from their destined aim.
But see! the angry Victor hath recalled
His ministers of vengeance and pursuit
Back to the gates of Heaven: the sulphurous hail,
Shot after us in storm, o'erblown hath laid
The fiery surge that from the precipice
Of Heaven received us falling; and the thunder,
Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage,
Perhaps hath spent his shafts, and ceases now
To bellow through the vast and boundless Deep.
Let us not slip th' occasion, whether scorn
Or satiate fury yield it from our Foe.
Seest thou yon dreary plain, forlorn and wild,
The seat of desolation, void of light,
Save what the glimmering of these livid flames
Casts pale and dreadful? Thither let us tend
From off the tossing of these fiery waves;
There rest, if any rest can harbour there;
And, re-assembling our afflicted powers,
Consult how we may henceforth most offend
Our enemy, our own loss how repair,
How overcome this dire calamity,
What reinforcement we may gain from hope,
If not, what resolution from despair."
Thus Satan, talking to his nearest mate,
With head uplift above the wave, and eyes
That sparkling blazed; his other parts besides
Prone on the flood, extended long and large,
Lay floating many a rood, in bulk as huge
As whom the fables name of monstrous size,
Titanian or Earth-born, that warred on Jove,
Briareos or Typhon, whom the den
By ancient Tarsus held, or that sea-beast
Leviathan, which God of all his works
Created hugest that swim th' ocean-stream.
Him, haply slumbering on the Norway foam,
The pilot of some small night-foundered skiff,
Deeming some island, oft, as seamen tell,
With fixed anchor in his scaly rind,
Moors by his side under the lee, while night
Invests the sea, and wished morn delays.
So stretched out huge in length the Arch-fiend lay,
Chained on the burning lake; nor ever thence
Had risen, or heaved his head, but that the will
And high permission of all-ruling Heaven
Left him at large to his own dark designs,
That with reiterated crimes he might
Heap on himself damnation, while he sought
Evil to others, and enraged might see
How all his malice served but to bring forth
Infinite goodness, grace, and mercy, shewn
On Man by him seduced, but on himself
Treble confusion, wrath, and vengeance poured.
Forthwith upright he rears from off the pool
His mighty stature; on each hand the flames
Driven backward slope their pointing spires, and,rolled
In billows, leave i' th' midst a horrid vale.
Then with expanded wings he steers his flight
Aloft, incumbent on the dusky air,
That felt unusual weight; till on dry land
He lights--if it were land that ever burned
With solid, as the lake with liquid fire,
And such appeared in hue as when the force
Of subterranean wind transprots a hill
Torn from Pelorus, or the shattered side
Of thundering Etna, whose combustible
And fuelled entrails, thence conceiving fire,
Sublimed with mineral fury, aid the winds,
And leave a singed bottom all involved
With stench and smoke. Such resting found the sole
Of unblest feet. Him followed his next mate;
Both glorying to have scaped the Stygian flood
As gods, and by their own recovered strength,
Not by the sufferance of supernal Power.
"Is this the region, this the soil, the clime,"
Said then the lost Archangel, "this the seat
That we must change for Heaven?--this mournful gloom
For that celestial light? Be it so, since he
Who now is sovereign can dispose and bid
What shall be right: farthest from him is best
Whom reason hath equalled, force hath made supreme
Above his equals. Farewell, happy fields,
Where joy for ever dwells! Hail, horrors! hail,
Infernal world! and thou, profoundest Hell,
Receive thy new possessor--one who brings
A mind not to be changed by place or time.
The mind is its own place, and in itself
Can make a Heaven of Hell, a Hell of Heaven.
What matter where, if I be still the same,
And what I should be, all but less than he
Whom thunder hath made greater? Here at least
We shall be free; th' Almighty hath not built
Here for his envy, will not drive us hence:
Here we may reigh secure; and, in my choice,
To reign is worth ambition, though in Hell:
Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven.
But wherefore let we then our faithful friends,
Th' associates and co-partners of our loss,
Lie thus astonished on th' oblivious pool,
And call them not to share with us their part
In this unhappy mansion, or once more
With rallied arms to try what may be yet
Regained in Heaven, or what more lost in Hell?"
So Satan spake; and him Beelzebub
Thus answered:--"Leader of those armies bright
Which, but th' Omnipotent, none could have foiled!
If once they hear that voice, their liveliest pledge
Of hope in fears and dangers--heard so oft
In worst extremes, and on the perilous edge
Of battle, when it raged, in all assaults
Their surest signal--they will soon resume
New courage and revive, though now they lie
Grovelling and prostrate on yon lake of fire,
As we erewhile, astounded and amazed;
No wonder, fallen such a pernicious height!"
He scare had ceased when the superior Fiend
Was moving toward the shore; his ponderous shield,
Ethereal temper, massy, large, and round,
Behind him cast. The broad circumference
Hung on his shoulders like the moon, whose orb
Through optic glass the Tuscan artist views
At evening, from the top of Fesole,
Or in Valdarno, to descry new lands,
Rivers, or mountains, in her spotty globe.
His spear--to equal which the tallest pine
Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the mast
Of some great ammiral, were but a wand--
He walked with, to support uneasy steps
Over the burning marl, not like those steps
On Heaven's azure; and the torrid clime
Smote on him sore besides, vaulted with fire.
Nathless he so endured, till on the beach
Of that inflamed sea he stood, and called
His legions--Angel Forms, who lay entranced
Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks
In Vallombrosa, where th' Etrurian shades
High over-arched embower; or scattered sedge
Afloat, when with fierce winds Orion armed
Hath vexed the Red-Sea coast, whose waves o'erthrew
Busiris and his Memphian chivalry,
While with perfidious hatred they pursued
The sojourners of Goshen, who beheld
From the safe shore their floating carcases
And broken chariot-wheels. So thick bestrown,
Abject and lost, lay these, covering the flood,
Under amazement of their hideous change.
He called so loud that all the hollow deep
Of Hell resounded:--"Princes, Potentates,
Warriors, the Flower of Heaven--once yours; now lost,
If such astonishment as this can seize
Eternal Spirits! Or have ye chosen this place
After the toil of battle to repose
Your wearied virtue, for the ease you find
To slumber here, as in the vales of Heaven?
Or in this abject posture have ye sworn
To adore the Conqueror, who now beholds
Cherub and Seraph rolling in the flood
With scattered arms and ensigns, till anon
His swift pursuers from Heaven-gates discern
Th' advantage, and, descending, tread us down
Thus drooping, or with linked thunderbolts
Transfix us to the bottom of this gulf?
Awake, arise, or be for ever fallen!"
They heard, and were abashed, and up they sprung
Upon the wing, as when men wont to watch
On duty, sleeping found by whom they dread,
Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake.
Nor did they not perceive the evil plight
In which they were, or the fierce pains not feel;
Yet to their General's voice they soon obeyed
Innumerable. As when the potent rod
Of Amram's son, in Egypt's evil day,
Waved round the coast, up-called a pitchy cloud
Of locusts, warping on the eastern wind,
That o'er the realm of impious Pharaoh hung
Like Night, and darkened all the land of Nile;
So numberless were those bad Angels seen
Hovering on wing under the cope of Hell,
'Twixt upper, nether, and surrounding fires;
Till, as a signal given, th' uplifted spear
Of their great Sultan waving to direct
Their course, in even balance down they light
On the firm brimstone, and fill all the plain:
A multitude like which the populous North
Poured never from her frozen loins to pass
Rhene or the Danaw, when her barbarous sons
Came like a deluge on the South, and spread
Beneath Gibraltar to the Libyan sands.
Forthwith, form every squadron and each band,
The heads and leaders thither haste where stood
Their great Commander--godlike Shapes, and Forms
Excelling human; princely Dignities;
And Powers that erst in Heaven sat on thrones,
Though on their names in Heavenly records now
Be no memorial, blotted out and rased
By their rebellion from the Books of Life.
Nor had they yet among the sons of Eve
Got them new names, till, wandering o'er the earth,
Through God's high sufferance for the trial of man,
By falsities and lies the greatest part
Of mankind they corrupted to forsake
God their Creator, and th' invisible
Glory of him that made them to transform
Oft to the image of a brute, adorned
With gay religions full of pomp and gold,
And devils to adore for deities:
Then were they known to men by various names,
And various idols through the heathen world.
Say, Muse, their names then known, who first, who last,
Roused from the slumber on that fiery couch,
At their great Emperor's call, as next in worth
Came singly where he stood on the bare strand,
While the promiscuous crowd stood yet aloof?
The chief were those who, from the pit of Hell
Roaming to seek their prey on Earth, durst fix
Their seats, long after, next the seat of God,
Their altars by his altar, gods adored
Among the nations round, and durst abide
Jehovah thundering out of Sion, throned
Between the Cherubim; yea, often placed
Within his sanctuary itself their shrines,
Abominations; and with cursed things
His holy rites and solemn feasts profaned,
And with their darkness durst affront his light.
First, Moloch, horrid king, besmeared with blood
Of human sacrifice, and parents' tears;
Though, for the noise of drums and timbrels loud,
Their children's cries unheard that passed through fire
To his grim idol. Him the Ammonite
Worshiped in Rabba and her watery plain,
In Argob and in Basan, to the stream
Of utmost Arnon. Nor content with such
Audacious neighbourhood, the wisest heart
Of Solomon he led by fraoud to build
His temple right against the temple of God
On that opprobrious hill, and made his grove
The pleasant valley of Hinnom, Tophet thence
And black Gehenna called, the type of Hell.
Next Chemos, th' obscene dread of Moab's sons,
From Aroar to Nebo and the wild
Of southmost Abarim; in Hesebon
And Horonaim, Seon's real, beyond
The flowery dale of Sibma clad with vines,
And Eleale to th' Asphaltic Pool:
Peor his other name, when he enticed
Israel in Sittim, on their march from Nile,
To do him wanton rites, which cost them woe.
Yet thence his lustful orgies he enlarged
Even to that hill of scandal, by the grove
Of Moloch homicide, lust hard by hate,
Till good Josiah drove them thence to Hell.
With these came they who, from the bordering flood
Of old Euphrates to the brook that parts
Egypt from Syrian ground, had general names
Of Baalim and Ashtaroth--those male,
These feminine. For Spirits, when they please,
Can either sex assume, or both; so soft
And uncompounded is their essence pure,
Not tried or manacled with joint or limb,
Nor founded on the brittle strength of bones,
Like cumbrous flesh; but, in what shape they choose,
Dilated or condensed, bright or obscure,
Can execute their airy purposes,
And works of love or enmity fulfil.
For those the race of Israel oft forsook
Their Living Strength, and unfrequented left
His righteous altar, bowing lowly down
To bestial gods; for which their heads as low
Bowed down in battle, sunk before the spear
Of despicable foes. With these in troop
Came Astoreth, whom the Phoenicians called
Astarte, queen of heaven, with crescent horns;
To whose bright image nigntly by the moon
Sidonian virgins paid their vows and songs;
In Sion also not unsung, where stood
Her temple on th' offensive mountain, built
By that uxorious king whose heart, though large,
Beguiled by fair idolatresses, fell
To idols foul. Thammuz came next behind,
Whose annual wound in Lebanon allured
The Syrian damsels to lament his fate
In amorous ditties all a summer's day,
While smooth Adonis from his native rock
Ran purple to the sea, supposed with blood
Of Thammuz yearly wounded: the love-tale
Infected Sion's daughters with like heat,
Whose wanton passions in the sacred proch
Ezekiel saw, when, by the vision led,
His eye surveyed the dark idolatries
Of alienated Judah. Next came one
Who mourned in earnest, when the captive ark
Maimed his brute image, head and hands lopt off,
In his own temple, on the grunsel-edge,
Where he fell flat and shamed his worshippers:
Dagon his name, sea-monster,upward man
And downward fish; yet had his temple high
Reared in Azotus, dreaded through the coast
Of Palestine, in Gath and Ascalon,
And Accaron and Gaza's frontier bounds.
Him followed Rimmon, whose delightful seat
Was fair Damascus, on the fertile banks
Of Abbana and Pharphar, lucid streams.
He also against the house of God was bold:
A leper once he lost, and gained a king--
Ahaz, his sottish conqueror, whom he drew
God's altar to disparage and displace
For one of Syrian mode, whereon to burn
His odious offerings, and adore the gods
Whom he had vanquished. After these appeared
A crew who, under names of old renown--
Osiris, Isis, Orus, and their train--
With monstrous shapes and sorceries abused
Fanatic Egypt and her priests to seek
Their wandering gods disguised in brutish forms
Rather than human. Nor did Israel scape
Th' infection, when their borrowed gold composed
The calf in Oreb; and the rebel king
Doubled that sin in Bethel and in Dan,
Likening his Maker to the grazed ox--
Jehovah, who, in one night, when he passed
From Egypt marching, equalled with one stroke
Both her first-born and all her bleating gods.
Belial came last; than whom a Spirit more lewd
Fell not from Heaven, or more gross to love
Vice for itself. To him no temple stood
Or altar smoked; yet who more oft than he
In temples and at altars, when the priest
Turns atheist, as did Eli's sons, who filled
With lust and violence the house of God?
In courts and palaces he also reigns,
And in luxurious cities, where the noise
Of riot ascends above their loftiest towers,
And injury and outrage; and, when night
Darkens the streets, then wander forth the sons
Of Belial, flown with insolence and wine.
Witness the streets of Sodom, and that night
In Gibeah, when the hospitable door
Exposed a matron, to avoid worse rape.
These were the prime in order and in might:
The rest were long to tell; though far renowned
Th' Ionian gods--of Javan's issue held
Gods, yet confessed later than Heaven and Earth,
Their boasted parents;--Titan, Heaven's first-born,
With his enormous brood, and birthright seized
By younger Saturn: he from mightier Jove,
His own and Rhea's son, like measure found;
So Jove usurping reigned. These, first in Crete
And Ida known, thence on the snowy top
Of cold Olympus ruled the middle air,
Their highest heaven; or on the Delphian cliff,
Or in Dodona, and through all the bounds
Of Doric land; or who with Saturn old
Fled over Adria to th' Hesperian fields,
And o'er the Celtic roamed the utmost Isles.
All these and more came flocking; but with looks
Downcast and damp; yet such wherein appeared
Obscure some glimpse of joy to have found their Chief
Not in despair, to have found themselves not lost
In loss itself; which on his countenance cast
Like doubtful hue. But he, his wonted pride
Soon recollecting, with high words, that bore
Semblance of worth, not substance, gently raised
Their fainting courage, and dispelled their fears.
Then straight commands that, at the warlike sound
Of trumpets loud and clarions, be upreared
His mighty standard. That proud honour claimed
Azazel as his right, a Cherub tall:
Who forthwith from the glittering staff unfurled
Th' imperial ensign; which, full high advanced,
Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind,
With gems and golden lustre rich emblazed,
Seraphic arms and trophies; all the while
Sonorous metal blowing martial sounds:
At which the universal host up-sent
A shout that tore Hell's concave, and beyond
Frighted the reign of Chaos and old Night.
All in a moment through the gloom were seen
Ten thousand banners rise into the air,
With orient colours waving: with them rose
A forest huge of spears; and thronging helms
Appeared, and serried shields in thick array
Of depth immeasurable. Anon they move
In perfect phalanx to the Dorian mood
Of flutes and soft recorders--such as raised
To height of noblest temper heroes old
Arming to battle, and instead of rage
Deliberate valour breathed, firm, and unmoved
With dread of death to flight or foul retreat;
Nor wanting power to mitigate and swage
With solemn touches troubled thoughts, and chase
Anguish and doubt and fear and sorrow and pain
From mortal or immortal minds. Thus they,
Breathing united force with fixed thought,
Moved on in silence to soft pipes that charmed
Their painful steps o'er the burnt soil. And now
Advanced in view they stand--a horrid front
Of dreadful length and dazzling arms, in guise
Of warriors old, with ordered spear and shield,
Awaiting what command their mighty Chief
Had to impose. He through the armed files
Darts his experienced eye, and soon traverse
The whole battalion views--their order due,
Their visages and stature as of gods;
Their number last he sums. And now his heart
Distends with pride, and, hardening in his strength,
Glories: for never, since created Man,
Met such embodied force as, named with these,
Could merit more than that small infantry
Warred on by cranes--though all the giant brood
Of Phlegra with th' heroic race were joined
That fought at Thebes and Ilium, on each side
Mixed with auxiliar gods; and what resounds
In fable or romance of Uther's son,
Begirt with British and Armoric knights;
And all who since, baptized or infidel,
Jousted in Aspramont, or Montalban,
Damasco, or Marocco, or Trebisond,
Or whom Biserta sent from Afric shore
When Charlemain with all his peerage fell
By Fontarabbia. Thus far these beyond
Compare of mortal prowess, yet observed
Their dread Commander. He, above the rest
In shape and gesture proudly eminent,
Stood like a tower. His form had yet not lost
All her original brightness, nor appeared
Less than Archangel ruined, and th' excess
Of glory obscured: as when the sun new-risen
Looks through the horizontal misty air
Shorn of his beams, or, from behind the moon,
In dim eclipse, disastrous twilight sheds
On half the nations, and with fear of change
Perplexes monarchs. Darkened so, yet shone
Above them all th' Archangel: but his face
Deep scars of thunder had intrenched, and care
Sat on his faded cheek, but under brows
Of dauntless courage, and considerate pride
Waiting revenge. Cruel his eye, but cast
Signs of remorse and passion, to behold
The fellows of his crime, the followers rather
(Far other once beheld in bliss), condemned
For ever now to have their lot in pain--
Millions of Spirits for his fault amerced
Of Heaven, and from eteranl splendours flung
For his revolt--yet faithful how they stood,
Their glory withered; as, when heaven's fire
Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines,
With singed top their stately growth, though bare,
Stands on the blasted heath. He now prepared
To speak; whereat their doubled ranks they bend
From wing to wing, and half enclose him round
With all his peers: attention held them mute.
Thrice he assayed, and thrice, in spite of scorn,
Tears, such as Angels weep, burst forth: at last
Words interwove with sighs found out their way:--
"O myriads of immortal Spirits! O Powers
Matchless, but with th' Almighth!--and that strife
Was not inglorious, though th' event was dire,
As this place testifies, and this dire change,
Hateful to utter. But what power of mind,
Forseeing or presaging, from the depth
Of knowledge past or present, could have feared
How such united force of gods, how such
As stood like these, could ever know repulse?
For who can yet believe, though after loss,
That all these puissant legions, whose exile
Hath emptied Heaven, shall fail to re-ascend,
Self-raised, and repossess their native seat?
For me, be witness all the host of Heaven,
If counsels different, or danger shunned
By me, have lost our hopes. But he who reigns
Monarch in Heaven till then as one secure
Sat on his throne, upheld by old repute,
Consent or custom, and his regal state
Put forth at full, but still his strength concealed--
Which tempted our attempt, and wrought our fall.
Henceforth his might we know, and know our own,
So as not either to provoke, or dread
New war provoked: our better part remains
To work in close design, by fraud or guile,
What force effected not; that he no less
At length from us may find, who overcomes
By force hath overcome but half his foe.
Space may produce new Worlds; whereof so rife
There went a fame in Heaven that he ere long
Intended to create, and therein plant
A generation whom his choice regard
Should favour equal to the Sons of Heaven.
Thither, if but to pry, shall be perhaps
Our first eruption--thither, or elsewhere;
For this infernal pit shall never hold
Celestial Spirits in bondage, nor th' Abyss
Long under darkness cover. But these thoughts
Full counsel must mature. Peace is despaired;
For who can think submission? War, then, war
Open or understood, must be resolved."
He spake; and, to confirm his words, outflew
Millions of flaming swords, drawn from the thighs
Of mighty Cherubim; the sudden blaze
Far round illumined Hell. Highly they raged
Against the Highest, and fierce with grasped arms
Clashed on their sounding shields the din of war,
Hurling defiance toward the vault of Heaven.
There stood a hill not far, whose grisly top
Belched fire and rolling smoke; the rest entire
Shone with a glossy scurf--undoubted sign
That in his womb was hid metallic ore,
The work of sulphur. Thither, winged with speed,
A numerous brigade hastened: as when bands
Of pioneers, with spade and pickaxe armed,
Forerun the royal camp, to trench a field,
Or cast a rampart. Mammon led them on--
Mammon, the least erected Spirit that fell
From Heaven; for even in Heaven his looks and thoughts
Were always downward bent, admiring more
The riches of heaven's pavement, trodden gold,
Than aught divine or holy else enjoyed
In vision beatific. By him first
Men also, and by his suggestion taught,
Ransacked the centre, and with impious hands
Rifled the bowels of their mother Earth
For treasures better hid. Soon had his crew
Opened into the hill a spacious wound,
And digged out ribs of gold. Let none admire
That riches grow in Hell; that soil may best
Deserve the precious bane. And here let those
Who boast in mortal things, and wondering tell
Of Babel, and the works of Memphian kings,
Learn how their greatest monuments of fame
And strength, and art, are easily outdone
By Spirits reprobate, and in an hour
What in an age they, with incessant toil
And hands innumerable, scarce perform.
Nigh on the plain, in many cells prepared,
That underneath had veins of liquid fire
Sluiced from the lake, a second multitude
With wondrous art founded the massy ore,
Severing each kind, and scummed the bullion-dross.
A third as soon had formed within the ground
A various mould, and from the boiling cells
By strange conveyance filled each hollow nook;
As in an organ, from one blast of wind,
To many a row of pipes the sound-board breathes.
Anon out of the earth a fabric huge
Rose like an exhalation, with the sound
Of dulcet symphonies and voices sweet--
Built like a temple, where pilasters round
Were set, and Doric pillars overlaid
With golden architrave; nor did there want
Cornice or frieze, with bossy sculptures graven;
The roof was fretted gold. Not Babylon
Nor great Alcairo such magnificence
Equalled in all their glories, to enshrine
Belus or Serapis their gods, or seat
Their kings, when Egypt with Assyria strove
In wealth and luxury. Th' ascending pile
Stood fixed her stately height, and straight the doors,
Opening their brazen folds, discover, wide
Within, her ample spaces o'er the smooth
And level pavement: from the arched roof,
Pendent by subtle magic, many a row
Of starry lamps and blazing cressets, fed
With naptha and asphaltus, yielded light
As from a sky. The hasty multitude
Admiring entered; and the work some praise,
And some the architect. His hand was known
In Heaven by many a towered structure high,
Where sceptred Angels held their residence,
And sat as Princes, whom the supreme King
Exalted to such power, and gave to rule,
Each in his Hierarchy, the Orders bright.
Nor was his name unheard or unadored
In ancient Greece; and in Ausonian land
Men called him Mulciber; and how he fell
From Heaven they fabled, thrown by angry Jove
Sheer o'er the crystal battlements: from morn
To noon he fell, from noon to dewy eve,
A summer's day, and with the setting sun
Dropt from the zenith, like a falling star,
On Lemnos, th' Aegaean isle. Thus they relate,
Erring; for he with this rebellious rout
Fell long before; nor aught aviled him now
To have built in Heaven high towers; nor did he scape
By all his engines, but was headlong sent,
With his industrious crew, to build in Hell.
Meanwhile the winged Heralds, by command
Of sovereign power, with awful ceremony
And trumpet's sound, throughout the host proclaim
A solemn council forthwith to be held
At Pandemonium, the high capital
Of Satan and his peers. Their summons called
From every band and squared regiment
By place or choice the worthiest: they anon
With hundreds and with thousands trooping came
Attended. All access was thronged; the gates
And porches wide, but chief the spacious hall
(Though like a covered field, where champions bold
Wont ride in armed, and at the Soldan's chair
Defied the best of Paynim chivalry
To mortal combat, or career with lance),
Thick swarmed, both on the ground and in the air,
Brushed with the hiss of rustling wings. As bees
In spring-time, when the Sun with Taurus rides.
Pour forth their populous youth about the hive
In clusters; they among fresh dews and flowers
Fly to and fro, or on the smoothed plank,
The suburb of their straw-built citadel,
New rubbed with balm, expatiate, and confer
Their state-affairs: so thick the airy crowd
Swarmed and were straitened; till, the signal given,
Behold a wonder! They but now who seemed
In bigness to surpass Earth's giant sons,
Now less than smallest dwarfs, in narrow room
Throng numberless--like that pygmean race
Beyond the Indian mount; or faery elves,
Whose midnight revels, by a forest-side
Or fountain, some belated peasant sees,
Or dreams he sees, while overhead the Moon
Sits arbitress, and nearer to the Earth
Wheels her pale course: they, on their mirth and dance
Intent, with jocund music charm his ear;
At once with joy and fear his heart rebounds.
Thus incorporeal Spirits to smallest forms
Reduced their shapes immense, and were at large,
Though without number still, amidst the hall
Of that infernal court. But far within,
And in their own dimensions like themselves,
The great Seraphic Lords and Cherubim
In close recess and secret conclave sat,
A thousand demi-gods on golden seats,
Frequent and full. After short silence then,
And summons read, the great consult began.
High on a throne of royal state, which far
Outshone the wealth or Ormus and of Ind,
Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand
Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold,
Satan exalted sat, by merit raised
To that bad eminence; and, from despair
Thus high uplifted beyond hope, aspires
Beyond thus high, insatiate to pursue
Vain war with Heaven; and, by success untaught,
His proud imaginations thus displayed:--
"Powers and Dominions, Deities of Heaven!--
For, since no deep within her gulf can hold
Immortal vigour, though oppressed and fallen,
I give not Heaven for lost: from this descent
Celestial Virtues rising will appear
More glorious and more dread than from no fall,
And trust themselves to fear no second fate!--
Me though just right, and the fixed laws of Heaven,
Did first create your leader--next, free choice
With what besides in council or in fight
Hath been achieved of merit--yet this loss,
Thus far at least recovered, hath much more
Established in a safe, unenvied throne,
Yielded with full consent. The happier state
In Heaven, which follows dignity, might draw
Envy from each inferior; but who here
Will envy whom the highest place exposes
Foremost to stand against the Thunderer's aim
Your bulwark, and condemns to greatest share
Of endless pain? Where there is, then, no good
For which to strive, no strife can grow up there
From faction: for none sure will claim in Hell
Precedence; none whose portion is so small
Of present pain that with ambitious mind
Will covet more! With this advantage, then,
To union, and firm faith, and firm accord,
More than can be in Heaven, we now return
To claim our just inheritance of old,
Surer to prosper than prosperity
Could have assured us; and by what best way,
Whether of open war or covert guile,
We now debate. Who can advise may speak."
He ceased; and next him Moloch, sceptred king,
Stood up--the strongest and the fiercest Spirit
That fought in Heaven, now fiercer by despair.
His trust was with th' Eternal to be deemed
Equal in strength, and rather than be less
Cared not to be at all; with that care lost
Went all his fear: of God, or Hell, or worse,
He recked not, and these words thereafter spake:--
"My sentence is for open war. Of wiles,
More unexpert, I boast not: them let those
Contrive who need, or when they need; not now.
For, while they sit contriving, shall the rest--
Millions that stand in arms, and longing wait
The signal to ascend--sit lingering here,
Heaven's fugitives, and for their dwelling-place
Accept this dark opprobrious den of shame,
The prison of his ryranny who reigns
By our delay? No! let us rather choose,
Armed with Hell-flames and fury, all at once
O'er Heaven's high towers to force resistless way,
Turning our tortures into horrid arms
Against the Torturer; when, to meet the noise
Of his almighty engine, he shall hear
Infernal thunder, and, for lightning, see
Black fire and horror shot with equal rage
Among his Angels, and his throne itself
Mixed with Tartarean sulphur and strange fire,
His own invented torments. But perhaps
The way seems difficult, and steep to scale
With upright wing against a higher foe!
Let such bethink them, if the sleepy drench
Of that forgetful lake benumb not still,
That in our porper motion we ascend
Up to our native seat; descent and fall
To us is adverse. Who but felt of late,
When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear
Insulting, and pursued us through the Deep,
With what compulsion and laborious flight
We sunk thus low? Th' ascent is easy, then;
Th' event is feared! Should we again provoke
Our stronger, some worse way his wrath may find
To our destruction, if there be in Hell
Fear to be worse destroyed! What can be worse
Than to dwell here, driven out from bliss, condemned
In this abhorred deep to utter woe!
Where pain of unextinguishable fire
Must exercise us without hope of end
The vassals of his anger, when the scourge
Inexorably, and the torturing hour,
Calls us to penance? More destroyed than thus,
We should be quite abolished, and expire.
What fear we then? what doubt we to incense
His utmost ire? which, to the height enraged,
Will either quite consume us, and reduce
To nothing this essential--happier far
Than miserable to have eternal being!--
Or, if our substance be indeed divine,
And cannot cease to be, we are at worst
On this side nothing; and by proof we feel
Our power sufficient to disturb his Heaven,
And with perpetual inroads to alarm,
Though inaccessible, his fatal throne:
Which, if not victory, is yet revenge."
He ended frowning, and his look denounced
Desperate revenge, and battle dangerous
To less than gods. On th' other side up rose
Belial, in act more graceful and humane.
A fairer person lost not Heaven; he seemed
For dignity composed, and high exploit.
But all was false and hollow; though his tongue
Dropped manna, and could make the worse appear
The better reason, to perplex and dash
Maturest counsels: for his thoughts were low--
To vice industrious, but to nobler deeds
Timorous and slothful. Yet he pleased the ear,
And with persuasive accent thus began:--
"I should be much for open war, O Peers,
As not behind in hate, if what was urged
Main reason to persuade immediate war
Did not dissuade me most, and seem to cast
Ominous conjecture on the whole success;
When he who most excels in fact of arms,
In what he counsels and in what excels
Mistrustful, grounds his courage on despair
And utter dissolution, as the scope
Of all his aim, after some dire revenge.
First, what revenge? The towers of Heaven are filled
With armed watch, that render all access
Impregnable: oft on the bodering Deep
Encamp their legions, or with obscure wing
Scout far and wide into the realm of Night,
Scorning surprise. Or, could we break our way
By force, and at our heels all Hell should rise
With blackest insurrection to confound
Heaven's purest light, yet our great Enemy,
All incorruptible, would on his throne
Sit unpolluted, and th' ethereal mould,
Incapable of stain, would soon expel
Her mischief, and purge off the baser fire,
Victorious. Thus repulsed, our final hope
Is flat despair: we must exasperate
Th' Almighty Victor to spend all his rage;
And that must end us; that must be our cure--
To be no more. Sad cure! for who would lose,
Though full of pain, this intellectual being,
Those thoughts that wander through eternity,
To perish rather, swallowed up and lost
In the wide womb of uncreated Night,
Devoid of sense and motion? And who knows,
Let this be good, whether our angry Foe
Can give it, or will ever? How he can
Is doubtful; that he never will is sure.
Will he, so wise, let loose at once his ire,
Belike through impotence or unaware,
To give his enemies their wish, and end
Them in his anger whom his anger saves
To punish endless? 'Wherefore cease we, then?'
Say they who counsel war; 'we are decreed,
Reserved, and destined to eternal woe;
Whatever doing, what can we suffer more,
What can we suffer worse?' Is this, then, worst--
Thus sitting, thus consulting, thus in arms?
What when we fled amain, pursued and struck
With Heaven's afflicting thunder, and besought
The Deep to shelter us? This Hell then seemed
A refuge from those wounds. Or when we lay
Chained on the burning lake? That sure was worse.
What if the breath that kindled those grim fires,
Awaked, should blow them into sevenfold rage,
And plunge us in the flames; or from above
Should intermitted vengeance arm again
His red right hand to plague us? What if all
Her stores were opened, and this firmament
Of Hell should spout her cataracts of fire,
Impendent horrors, threatening hideous fall
One day upon our heads; while we perhaps,
Designing or exhorting glorious war,
Caught in a fiery tempest, shall be hurled,
Each on his rock transfixed, the sport and prey
Or racking whirlwinds, or for ever sunk
Under yon boiling ocean, wrapt in chains,
There to converse with everlasting groans,
Unrespited, unpitied, unreprieved,
Ages of hopeless end? This would be worse.
War, therefore, open or concealed, alike
My voice dissuades; for what can force or guile
With him, or who deceive his mind, whose eye
Views all things at one view? He from Heaven's height
All these our motions vain sees and derides,
Not more almighty to resist our might
Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles.
Shall we, then, live thus vile--the race of Heaven
Thus trampled, thus expelled, to suffer here
Chains and these torments? Better these than worse,
By my advice; since fate inevitable
Subdues us, and omnipotent decree,
The Victor's will. To suffer, as to do,
Our strength is equal; nor the law unjust
That so ordains. This was at first resolved,
If we were wise, against so great a foe
Contending, and so doubtful what might fall.
I laugh when those who at the spear are bold
And venturous, if that fail them, shrink, and fear
What yet they know must follow--to endure
Exile, or igominy, or bonds, or pain,
The sentence of their Conqueror. This is now
Our doom; which if we can sustain and bear,
Our Supreme Foe in time may much remit
His anger, and perhaps, thus far removed,
Not mind us not offending, satisfied
With what is punished; whence these raging fires
Will slacken, if his breath stir not their flames.
Our purer essence then will overcome
Their noxious vapour; or, inured, not feel;
Or, changed at length, and to the place conformed
In temper and in nature, will receive
Familiar the fierce heat; and, void of pain,
This horror will grow mild, this darkness light;
Besides what hope the never-ending flight
Of future days may bring, what chance, what change
Worth waiting--since our present lot appears
For happy though but ill, for ill not worst,
If we procure not to ourselves more woe."
Thus Belial, with words clothed in reason's garb,
Counselled ignoble ease and peaceful sloth,
Not peace; and after him thus Mammon spake:--
"Either to disenthrone the King of Heaven
We war, if war be best, or to regain
Our own right lost. Him to unthrone we then
May hope, when everlasting Fate shall yield
To fickle Chance, and Chaos judge the strife.
The former, vain to hope, argues as vain
The latter; for what place can be for us
Within Heaven's bound, unless Heaven's Lord supreme
We overpower? Suppose he should relent
And publish grace to all, on promise made
Of new subjection; with what eyes could we
Stand in his presence humble, and receive
Strict laws imposed, to celebrate his throne
With warbled hyms, and to his Godhead sing
Forced hallelujahs, while he lordly sits
Our envied sovereign, and his altar breathes
Ambrosial odours and ambrosial flowers,
Our servile offerings? This must be our task
In Heaven, this our delight. How wearisome
Eternity so spent in worship paid
To whom we hate! Let us not then pursue,
By force impossible, by leave obtained
Unacceptable, though in Heaven, our state
Of splendid vassalage; but rather seek
Our own good from ourselves, and from our own
Live to ourselves, though in this vast recess,
Free and to none accountable, preferring
Hard liberty before the easy yoke
Of servile pomp. Our greatness will appear
Then most conspicuous when great things of small,
Useful of hurtful, prosperous of adverse,
We can create, and in what place soe'er
Thrive under evil, and work ease out of pain
Through labour and endurance. This deep world
Of darkness do we dread? How oft amidst
Thick clouds and dark doth Heaven's all-ruling Sire
Choose to reside, his glory unobscured,
And with the majesty of darkness round
Covers his throne, from whence deep thunders roar.
Mustering their rage, and Heaven resembles Hell!
As he our darkness, cannot we his light
Imitate when we please? This desert soil
Wants not her hidden lustre, gems and gold;
Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise
Magnificence; and what can Heaven show more?
Our torments also may, in length of time,
Become our elements, these piercing fires
As soft as now severe, our temper changed
Into their temper; which must needs remove
The sensible of pain. All things invite
To peaceful counsels, and the settled state
Of order, how in safety best we may
Compose our present evils, with regard
Of what we are and where, dismissing quite
All thoughts of war. Ye have what I advise."
He scarce had finished, when such murmur filled
Th' assembly as when hollow rocks retain
The sound of blustering winds, which all night long
Had roused the sea, now with hoarse cadence lull
Seafaring men o'erwatched, whose bark by chance
Or pinnace, anchors in a craggy bay
After the tempest. Such applause was heard
As Mammon ended, and his sentence pleased,
Advising peace: for such another field
They dreaded worse than Hell; so much the fear
Of thunder and the sword of Michael
Wrought still within them; and no less desire
To found this nether empire, which might rise,
By policy and long process of time,
In emulation opposite to Heaven.
Which when Beelzebub perceived--than whom,
Satan except, none higher sat--with grave
Aspect he rose, and in his rising seemed
A pillar of state. Deep on his front engraven
Deliberation sat, and public care;
And princely counsel in his face yet shone,
Majestic, though in ruin. Sage he stood
With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear
The weight of mightiest monarchies; his look
Drew audience and attention still as night
Or summer's noontide air, while thus he spake:--
"Thrones and Imperial Powers, Offspring of Heaven,
Ethereal Virtues! or these titles now
Must we renounce, and, changing style, be called
Princes of Hell? for so the popular vote
Inclines--here to continue, and build up here
A growing empire; doubtless! while we dream,
And know not that the King of Heaven hath doomed
This place our dungeon, not our safe retreat
Beyond his potent arm, to live exempt
From Heaven's high jurisdiction, in new league
Banded against his throne, but to remain
In strictest bondage, though thus far removed,
Under th' inevitable curb, reserved
His captive multitude. For he, to be sure,
In height or depth, still first and last will reign
Sole king, and of his kingdom lose no part
By our revolt, but over Hell extend
His empire, and with iron sceptre rule
Us here, as with his golden those in Heaven.
What sit we then projecting peace and war?
War hath determined us and foiled with loss
Irreparable; terms of peace yet none
Vouchsafed or sought; for what peace will be given
To us enslaved, but custody severe,
And stripes and arbitrary punishment
Inflicted? and what peace can we return,
But, to our power, hostility and hate,
Untamed reluctance, and revenge, though slow,
Yet ever plotting how the Conqueror least
May reap his conquest, and may least rejoice
In doing what we most in suffering feel?
Nor will occasion want, nor shall we need
With dangerous expedition to invade
Heaven, whose high walls fear no assault or siege,
Or ambush from the Deep. What if we find
Some easier enterprise? There is a place
(If ancient and prophetic fame in Heaven
Err not)--another World, the happy seat
Of some new race, called Man, about this time
To be created like to us, though less
In power and excellence, but favoured more
Of him who rules above; so was his will
Pronounced among the Gods, and by an oath
That shook Heaven's whole circumference confirmed.
Thither let us bend all our thoughts, to learn
What creatures there inhabit, of what mould
Or substance, how endued, and what their power
And where their weakness: how attempted best,
By force of subtlety. Though Heaven be shut,
And Heaven's high Arbitrator sit secure
In his own strength, this place may lie exposed,
The utmost border of his kingdom, left
To their defence who hold it: here, perhaps,
Some advantageous act may be achieved
By sudden onset--either with Hell-fire
To waste his whole creation, or possess
All as our own, and drive, as we were driven,
The puny habitants; or, if not drive,
Seduce them to our party, that their God
May prove their foe, and with repenting hand
Abolish his own works. This would surpass
Common revenge, and interrupt his joy
In our confusion, and our joy upraise
In his disturbance; when his darling sons,
Hurled headlong to partake with us, shall curse
Their frail original, and faded bliss--
Faded so soon! Advise if this be worth
Attempting, or to sit in darkness here
Hatching vain empires." Thus beelzebub
Pleaded his devilish counsel--first devised
By Satan, and in part proposed: for whence,
But from the author of all ill, could spring
So deep a malice, to confound the race
Of mankind in one root, and Earth with Hell
To mingle and involve, done all to spite
The great Creator? But their spite still serves
His glory to augment. The bold design
Pleased highly those infernal States, and joy
Sparkled in all their eyes: with full assent
They vote: whereat his speech he thus renews:--
"Well have ye judged, well ended long debate,
Synod of Gods, and, like to what ye are,
Great things resolved, which from the lowest deep
Will once more lift us up, in spite of fate,
Nearer our ancient seat--perhaps in view
Of those bright confines, whence, with neighbouring arms,
And opportune excursion, we may chance
Re-enter Heaven; or else in some mild zone
Dwell, not unvisited of Heaven's fair light,
Secure, and at the brightening orient beam
Purge off this gloom: the soft delicious air,
To heal the scar of these corrosive fires,
Shall breathe her balm. But, first, whom shall we send
In search of this new World? whom shall we find
Sufficient? who shall tempt with wandering feet
The dark, unbottomed, infinite Abyss,
And through the palpable obscure find out
His uncouth way, or spread his airy flight,
Upborne with indefatigable wings
Over the vast abrupt, ere he arrive
The happy Isle? What strength, what art, can then
Suffice, or what evasion bear him safe,
Through the strict senteries and stations thick
Of Angels watching round? Here he had need
All circumspection: and we now no less
Choice in our suffrage; for on whom we send
The weight of all, and our last hope, relies."
This said, he sat; and expectation held
His look suspense, awaiting who appeared
To second, or oppose, or undertake
The perilous attempt. But all sat mute,
Pondering the danger with deep thoughts; and each
In other's countenance read his own dismay,
Astonished. None among the choice and prime
Of those Heaven-warring champions could be found
So hardy as to proffer or accept,
Alone, the dreadful voyage; till, at last,
Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised
Above his fellows, with monarchal pride
Conscious of highest worth, unmoved thus spake:--
"O Progeny of Heaven! Empyreal Thrones!
With reason hath deep silence and demur
Seized us, though undismayed. Long is the way
And hard, that out of Hell leads up to light.
Our prison strong, this huge convex of fire,
Outrageous to devour, immures us round
Ninefold; and gates of burning adamant,
Barred over us, prohibit all egress.
These passed, if any pass, the void profound
Of unessential Night receives him next,
Wide-gaping, and with utter loss of being
Threatens him, plunged in that abortive gulf.
If thence he scape, into whatever world,
Or unknown region, what remains him less
Than unknown dangers, and as hard escape?
But I should ill become this throne, O Peers,
And this imperial sovereignty, adorned
With splendour, armed with power, if aught proposed
And judged of public moment in the shape
Of difficulty or danger, could deter
Me from attempting. Wherefore do I assume
These royalties, and not refuse to reign,
Refusing to accept as great a share
Of hazard as of honour, due alike
To him who reigns, and so much to him due
Of hazard more as he above the rest
High honoured sits? Go, therefore, mighty Powers,
Terror of Heaven, though fallen; intend at home,
While here shall be our home, what best may ease
The present misery, and render Hell
More tolerable; if there be cure or charm
To respite, or deceive, or slack the pain
Of this ill mansion: intermit no watch
Against a wakeful foe, while I abroad
Through all the coasts of dark destruction seek
Deliverance for us all. This enterprise
None shall partake with me." Thus saying, rose
The Monarch, and prevented all reply;
Prudent lest, from his resolution raised,
Others among the chief might offer now,
Certain to be refused, what erst they feared,
And, so refused, might in opinion stand
His rivals, winning cheap the high repute
Which he through hazard huge must earn. But they
Dreaded not more th' adventure than his voice
Forbidding; and at once with him they rose.
Their rising all at once was as the sound
Of thunder heard remote. Towards him they bend
With awful reverence prone, and as a God
Extol him equal to the Highest in Heaven.
Nor failed they to express how much they praised
That for the general safety he despised
His own: for neither do the Spirits damned
Lose all their virtue; lest bad men should boast
Their specious deeds on earth, which glory excites,
Or close ambition varnished o'er with zeal.
Thus they their doubtful consultations dark
Ended, rejoicing in their matchless Chief:
As, when from mountain-tops the dusky clouds
Ascending, while the north wind sleeps, o'erspread
Heaven's cheerful face, the louring element
Scowls o'er the darkened landscape snow or shower,
If chance the radiant sun, with farewell sweet,
Extend his evening beam, the fields revive,
The birds their notes renew, and bleating herds
Attest their joy, that hill and valley rings.
O shame to men! Devil with devil damned
Firm concord holds; men only disagree
Of creatures rational, though under hope
Of heavenly grace, and, God proclaiming peace,
Yet live in hatred, enmity, and strife
Among themselves, and levy cruel wars
Wasting the earth, each other to destroy:
As if (which might induce us to accord)
Man had not hellish foes enow besides,
That day and night for his destruction wait!
The Stygian council thus dissolved; and forth
In order came the grand infernal Peers:
Midst came their mighty Paramount, and seemed
Alone th' antagonist of Heaven, nor less
Than Hell's dread Emperor, with pomp supreme,
And god-like imitated state: him round
A globe of fiery Seraphim enclosed
With bright emblazonry, and horrent arms.
Then of their session ended they bid cry
With trumpet's regal sound the great result:
Toward the four winds four speedy Cherubim
Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy,
By herald's voice explained; the hollow Abyss
Heard far adn wide, and all the host of Hell
With deafening shout returned them loud acclaim.
Thence more at ease their minds, and somewhat raised
By false presumptuous hope, the ranged Powers
Disband; and, wandering, each his several way
Pursues, as inclination or sad choice
Leads him perplexed, where he may likeliest find
Truce to his restless thoughts, and entertain
The irksome hours, till his great Chief return.
Part on the plain, or in the air sublime,
Upon the wing or in swift race contend,
As at th' Olympian games or Pythian fields;
Part curb their fiery steeds, or shun the goal
With rapid wheels, or fronted brigades form:
As when, to warn proud cities, war appears
Waged in the troubled sky, and armies rush
To battle in the clouds; before each van
Prick forth the airy knights, and couch their spears,
Till thickest legions close; with feats of arms
From either end of heaven the welkin burns.
Others, with vast Typhoean rage, more fell,
Rend up both rocks and hills, and ride the air
In whirlwind; Hell scarce holds the wild uproar:--
As when Alcides, from Oechalia crowned
With conquest, felt th' envenomed robe, and tore
Through pain up by the roots Thessalian pines,
And Lichas from the top of Oeta threw
Into th' Euboic sea. Others, more mild,
Retreated in a silent valley, sing
With notes angelical to many a harp
Their own heroic deeds, and hapless fall
By doom of battle, and complain that Fate
Free Virtue should enthrall to Force or Chance.
Their song was partial; but the harmony
(What could it less when Spirits immortal sing?)
Suspended Hell, and took with ravishment
The thronging audience. In discourse more sweet
(For Eloquence the Soul, Song charms the Sense)
Others apart sat on a hill retired,
In thoughts more elevate, and reasoned high
Of Providence, Foreknowledge, Will, and Fate--
Fixed fate, free will, foreknowledge absolute,
And found no end, in wandering mazes lost.
Of good and evil much they argued then,
Of happiness and final misery,
Passion and apathy, and glory and shame:
Vain wisdom all, and false philosophy!--
Yet, with a pleasing sorcery, could charm
Pain for a while or anguish, and excite
Fallacious hope, or arm th' obdured breast
With stubborn patience as with triple steel.
Another part, in squadrons and gross bands,
On bold adventure to discover wide
That dismal world, if any clime perhaps
Might yield them easier habitation, bend
Four ways their flying march, along the banks
Of four infernal rivers, that disgorge
Into the burning lake their baleful streams--
Abhorred Styx, the flood of deadly hate;
Sad Acheron of sorrow, black and deep;
Cocytus, named of lamentation loud
Heard on the rueful stream; fierce Phlegeton,
Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage.
Far off from these, a slow and silent stream,
Lethe, the river of oblivion, rolls
Her watery labyrinth, whereof who drinks
Forthwith his former state and being forgets--
Forgets both joy and grief, pleasure and pain.
Beyond this flood a frozen continent
Lies dark and wild, beat with perpetual storms
Of whirlwind and dire hail, which on firm land
Thaws not, but gathers heap, and ruin seems
Of ancient pile; all else deep snow and ice,
A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog
Betwixt Damiata and Mount Casius old,
Where armies whole have sunk: the parching air
Burns frore, and cold performs th' effect of fire.
Thither, by harpy-footed Furies haled,
At certain revolutions all the damned
Are brought; and feel by turns the bitter change
Of fierce extremes, extremes by change more fierce,
From beds of raging fire to starve in ice
Their soft ethereal warmth, and there to pine
Immovable, infixed, and frozen round
Periods of time,--thence hurried back to fire.
They ferry over this Lethean sound
Both to and fro, their sorrow to augment,
And wish and struggle, as they pass, to reach
The tempting stream, with one small drop to lose
In sweet forgetfulness all pain and woe,
All in one moment, and so near the brink;
But Fate withstands, and, to oppose th' attempt,
Medusa with Gorgonian terror guards
The ford, and of itself the water flies
All taste of living wight, as once it fled
The lip of Tantalus. Thus roving on
In confused march forlorn, th' adventurous bands,
With shuddering horror pale, and eyes aghast,
Viewed first their lamentable lot, and found
No rest. Through many a dark and dreary vale
They passed, and many a region dolorous,
O'er many a frozen, many a fiery alp,
Rocks, caves, lakes, fens, bogs, dens, and shades of death--
A universe of death, which God by curse
Created evil, for evil only good;
Where all life dies, death lives, and Nature breeds,
Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things,
Obominable, inutterable, and worse
Than fables yet have feigned or fear conceived,
Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras dire.
Meanwhile the Adversary of God and Man,
Satan, with thoughts inflamed of highest design,
Puts on swift wings, and toward the gates of Hell
Explores his solitary flight: sometimes
He scours the right hand coast, sometimes the left;
Now shaves with level wing the deep, then soars
Up to the fiery concave towering high.
As when far off at sea a fleet descried
Hangs in the clouds, by equinoctial winds
Close sailing from Bengala, or the isles
Of Ternate and Tidore, whence merchants bring
Their spicy drugs; they on the trading flood,
Through the wide Ethiopian to the Cape,
Ply stemming nightly toward the pole: so seemed
Far off the flying Fiend. At last appear
Hell-bounds, high reaching to the horrid roof,
And thrice threefold the gates; three folds were brass,
Three iron, three of adamantine rock,
Impenetrable, impaled with circling fire,
Yet unconsumed. Before the gates there sat
On either side a formidable Shape.
The one seemed woman to the waist, and fair,
But ended foul in many a scaly fold,
Voluminous and vast--a serpent armed
With mortal sting. About her middle round
A cry of Hell-hounds never-ceasing barked
With wide Cerberean mouths full loud, and rung
A hideous peal; yet, when they list, would creep,
If aught disturbed their noise, into her womb,
And kennel there; yet there still barked and howled
Within unseen. Far less abhorred than these
Vexed Scylla, bathing in the sea that parts
Calabria from the hoarse Trinacrian shore;
Nor uglier follow the night-hag, when, called
In secret, riding through the air she comes,
Lured with the smell of infant blood, to dance
With Lapland witches, while the labouring moon
Eclipses at their charms. The other Shape--
If shape it might be called that shape had none
Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb;
Or substance might be called that shadow seemed,
For each seemed either--black it stood as Night,
Fierce as ten Furies, terrible as Hell,
And shook a dreadful dart: what seemed his head
The likeness of a kingly crown had on.
Satan was now at hand, and from his seat
The monster moving onward came as fast
With horrid strides; Hell trembled as he strode.
Th' undaunted Fiend what this might be admired--
Admired, not feared (God and his Son except,
Created thing naught valued he nor shunned),
And with disdainful look thus first began:--
"Whence and what art thou, execrable Shape,
That dar'st, though grim and terrible, advance
Thy miscreated front athwart my way
To yonder gates? Through them I mean to pass,
That be assured, without leave asked of thee.
Retire; or taste thy folly, and learn by proof,
Hell-born, not to contend with Spirits of Heaven."
To whom the Goblin, full of wrath, replied:--
"Art thou that traitor Angel? art thou he,
Who first broke peace in Heaven and faith, till then
Unbroken, and in proud rebellious arms
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's sons,
Conjured against the Highest--for which both thou
And they, outcast from God, are here condemned
To waste eternal days in woe and pain?
And reckon'st thou thyself with Spirits of Heaven
Hell-doomed, and breath'st defiance here and scorn,
Where I reign king, and, to enrage thee more,
Thy king and lord? Back to thy punishment,
False fugitive; and to thy speed add wings,
Lest with a whip of scorpions I pursue
Thy lingering, or with one stroke of this dart
Strange horror seize thee, and pangs unfelt before."
So spake the grisly Terror, and in shape,
So speaking and so threatening, grew tenfold,
More dreadful and deform. On th' other side,
Incensed with indignation, Satan stood
Unterrified, and like a comet burned,
That fires the length of Ophiuchus huge
In th' arctic sky, and from his horrid hair
Shakes pestilence and war. Each at the head
Levelled his deadly aim; their fatal hands
No second stroke intend; and such a frown
Each cast at th' other as when two black clouds,
With heaven's artillery fraught, came rattling on
Over the Caspian,--then stand front to front
Hovering a space, till winds the signal blow
To join their dark encounter in mid-air.
So frowned the mighty combatants that Hell
Grew darker at their frown; so matched they stood;
For never but once more was wither like
To meet so great a foe. And now great deeds
Had been achieved, whereof all Hell had rung,
Had not the snaky Sorceress, that sat
Fast by Hell-gate and kept the fatal key,
Risen, and with hideous outcry rushed between.
"O father, what intends thy hand," she cried,
"Against thy only son? What fury, O son,
Possesses thee to bend that mortal dart
Against thy father's head? And know'st for whom?
For him who sits above, and laughs the while
At thee, ordained his drudge to execute
Whate'er his wrath, which he calls justice, bids--
His wrath, which one day will destroy ye both!"
She spake, and at her words the hellish Pest
Forbore: then these to her Satan returned:--
"So strange thy outcry, and thy words so strange
Thou interposest, that my sudden hand,
Prevented, spares to tell thee yet by deeds
What it intends, till first I know of thee
What thing thou art, thus double-formed, and why,
In this infernal vale first met, thou call'st
Me father, and that phantasm call'st my son.
I know thee not, nor ever saw till now
Sight more detestable than him and thee."
T' whom thus the Portress of Hell-gate replied:--
"Hast thou forgot me, then; and do I seem
Now in thine eye so foul?--once deemed so fair
In Heaven, when at th' assembly, and in sight
Of all the Seraphim with thee combined
In bold conspiracy against Heaven's King,
All on a sudden miserable pain
Surprised thee, dim thine eyes and dizzy swum
In darkness, while thy head flames thick and fast
Threw forth, till on the left side opening wide,
Likest to thee in shape and countenance bright,
Then shining heavenly fair, a goddess armed,
Out of thy head I sprung. Amazement seized
All th' host of Heaven; back they recoiled afraid
At first, and called me Sin, and for a sign
Portentous held me; but, familiar grown,
I pleased, and with attractive graces won
The most averse--thee chiefly, who, full oft
Thyself in me thy perfect image viewing,
Becam'st enamoured; and such joy thou took'st
With me in secret that my womb conceived
A growing burden. Meanwhile war arose,
And fields were fought in Heaven: wherein remained
(For what could else?) to our Almighty Foe
Clear victory; to our part loss and rout
Through all the Empyrean. Down they fell,
Driven headlong from the pitch of Heaven, down
Into this Deep; and in the general fall
I also: at which time this powerful key
Into my hands was given, with charge to keep
These gates for ever shut, which none can pass
Without my opening. Pensive here I sat
Alone; but long I sat not, till my womb,
Pregnant by thee, and now excessive grown,
Prodigious motion felt and rueful throes.
At last this odious offspring whom thou seest,
Thine own begotten, breaking violent way,
Tore through my entrails, that, with fear and pain
Distorted, all my nether shape thus grew
Transformed: but he my inbred enemy
Forth issued, brandishing his fatal dart,
Made to destroy. I fled, and cried out Death!
Hell trembled at the hideous name, and sighed
From all her caves, and back resounded Death!
I fled; but he pursued (though more, it seems,
Inflamed with lust than rage), and, swifter far,
Me overtook, his mother, all dismayed,
And, in embraces forcible and foul
Engendering with me, of that rape begot
These yelling monsters, that with ceaseless cry
Surround me, as thou saw'st--hourly conceived
And hourly born, with sorrow infinite
To me; for, when they list, into the womb
That bred them they return, and howl, and gnaw
My bowels, their repast; then, bursting forth
Afresh, with conscious terrors vex me round,
That rest or intermission none I find.
Before mine eyes in opposition sits
Grim Death, my son and foe, who set them on,
And me, his parent, would full soon devour
For want of other prey, but that he knows
His end with mine involved, and knows that I
Should prove a bitter morsel, and his bane,
Whenever that shall be: so Fate pronounced.
But thou, O father, I forewarn thee, shun
His deadly arrow; neither vainly hope
To be invulnerable in those bright arms,
Through tempered heavenly; for that mortal dint,
Save he who reigns above, none can resist."
She finished; and the subtle Fiend his lore
Soon learned, now milder, and thus answered smooth:--
"Dear daughter--since thou claim'st me for thy sire,
And my fair son here show'st me, the dear pledge
Of dalliance had with thee in Heaven, and joys
Then sweet, now sad to mention, through dire change
Befallen us unforeseen, unthought-of--know,
I come no enemy, but to set free
From out this dark and dismal house of pain
Both him and thee, and all the heavenly host
Of Spirits that, in our just pretences armed,
Fell with us from on high. From them I go
This uncouth errand sole, and one for all
Myself expose, with lonely steps to tread
Th' unfounded Deep, and through the void immense
To search, with wandering quest, a place foretold
Should be--and, by concurring signs, ere now
Created vast and round--a place of bliss
In the purlieus of Heaven; and therein placed
A race of upstart creatures, to supply
Perhaps our vacant room, though more removed,
Lest Heaven, surcharged with potent multitude,
Might hap to move new broils. Be this, or aught
Than this more secret, now designed, I haste
To know; and, this once known, shall soon return,
And bring ye to the place where thou and Death
Shall dwell at ease, and up and down unseen
Wing silently the buxom air, embalmed
With odours. There ye shall be fed and filled
Immeasurably; all things shall be your prey."
He ceased; for both seemed highly pleased, and Death
Grinned horrible a ghastly smile, to hear
His famine should be filled, and blessed his maw
Destined to that good hour. No less rejoiced
His mother bad, and thus bespake her sire:--
"The key of this infernal Pit, by due
And by command of Heaven's all-powerful King,
I keep, by him forbidden to unlock
These adamantine gates; against all force
Death ready stands to interpose his dart,
Fearless to be o'ermatched by living might.
But what owe I to his commands above,
Who hates me, and hath hither thrust me down
Into this gloom of Tartarus profound,
To sit in hateful office here confined,
Inhabitant of Heaven and heavenly born--
Here in perpetual agony and pain,
With terrors and with clamours compassed round
Of mine own brood, that on my bowels feed?
Thou art my father, thou my author, thou
My being gav'st me; whom should I obey
But thee? whom follow? Thou wilt bring me soon
To that new world of light and bliss, among
The gods who live at ease, where I shall reign
At thy right hand voluptuous, as beseems
Thy daughter and thy darling, without end."
Thus saying, from her side the fatal key,
Sad instrument of all our woe, she took;
And, towards the gate rolling her bestial train,
Forthwith the huge portcullis high up-drew,
Which, but herself, not all the Stygian Powers
Could once have moved; then in the key-hole turns
Th' intricate wards, and every bolt and bar
Of massy iron or solid rock with ease
Unfastens. On a sudden open fly,
With impetuous recoil and jarring sound,
Th' infernal doors, and on their hinges grate
Harsh thunder, that the lowest bottom shook
Of Erebus. She opened; but to shut
Excelled her power: the gates wide open stood,
That with extended wings a bannered host,
Under spread ensigns marching, mibht pass through
With horse and chariots ranked in loose array;
So wide they stood, and like a furnace-mouth
Cast forth redounding smoke and ruddy flame.
Before their eyes in sudden view appear
The secrets of the hoary Deep--a dark
Illimitable ocean, without bound,
Without dimension; where length, breadth, and height,
And time, and place, are lost; where eldest Night
And Chaos, ancestors of Nature, hold
Eternal anarchy, amidst the noise
Of endless wars, and by confusion stand.
For Hot, Cold, Moist, and Dry, four champions fierce,
Strive here for mastery, and to battle bring
Their embryon atoms: they around the flag
Of each his faction, in their several clans,
Light-armed or heavy, sharp, smooth, swift, or slow,
Swarm populous, unnumbered as the sands
Of Barca or Cyrene's torrid soil,
Levied to side with warring winds, and poise
Their lighter wings. To whom these most adhere
He rules a moment: Chaos umpire sits,
And by decision more embroils the fray
By which he reigns: next him, high arbiter,
Chance governs all. Into this wild Abyss,
The womb of Nature, and perhaps her grave,
Of neither sea, nor shore, nor air, nor fire,
But all these in their pregnant causes mixed
Confusedly, and which thus must ever fight,
Unless th' Almighty Maker them ordain
His dark materials to create more worlds--
Into this wild Abyss the wary Fiend
Stood on the brink of Hell and looked a while,
Pondering his voyage; for no narrow frith
He had to cross. Nor was his ear less pealed
With noises loud and ruinous (to compare
Great things with small) than when Bellona storms
With all her battering engines, bent to rase
Some capital city; or less than if this frame
Of Heaven were falling, and these elements
In mutiny had from her axle torn
The steadfast Earth. At last his sail-broad vans
He spread for flight, and, in the surging smoke
Uplifted, spurns the ground; thence many a league,
As in a cloudy chair, ascending rides
Audacious; but, that seat soon failing, meets
A vast vacuity. All unawares,
Fluttering his pennons vain, plumb-down he drops
Ten thousand fathom deep, and to this hour
Down had been falling, had not, by ill chance,
The strong rebuff of some tumultuous cloud,
Instinct with fire and nitre, hurried him
As many miles aloft. That fury stayed--
Quenched in a boggy Syrtis, neither sea,
Nor good dry land--nigh foundered, on he fares,
Treading the crude consistence, half on foot,
Half flying; behoves him now both oar and sail.
As when a gryphon through the wilderness
With winged course, o'er hill or moory dale,
Pursues the Arimaspian, who by stealth
Had from his wakeful custody purloined
The guarded gold; so eagerly the Fiend
O'er bog or steep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare,
With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues his way,
And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies.
At length a universal hubbub wild
Of stunning sounds, and voices all confused,
Borne through the hollow dark, assaults his ear
With loudest vehemence. Thither he plies
Undaunted, to meet there whatever Power
Or Spirit of the nethermost Abyss
Might in that noise reside, of whom to ask
Which way the nearest coast of darkness lies
Bordering on light; when straight behold the throne
Of Chaos, and his dark pavilion spread
Wide on the wasteful Deep! With him enthroned
Sat sable-vested Night, eldest of things,
The consort of his reign; and by them stood
Orcus and Ades, and the dreaded name
Of Demogorgon; Rumour next, and Chance,
And Tumult, and Confusion, all embroiled,
And Discord with a thousand various mouths.
T' whom Satan, turning boldly, thus:--"Ye Powers
And Spirtis of this nethermost Abyss,
Chaos and ancient Night, I come no spy
With purpose to explore or to disturb
The secrets of your realm; but, by constraint
Wandering this darksome desert, as my way
Lies through your spacious empire up to light,
Alone and without guide, half lost, I seek,
What readiest path leads where your gloomy bounds
Confine with Heaven; or, if some other place,
From your dominion won, th' Ethereal King
Possesses lately, thither to arrive
I travel this profound. Direct my course:
Directed, no mean recompense it brings
To your behoof, if I that region lost,
All usurpation thence expelled, reduce
To her original darkness and your sway
(Which is my present journey), and once more
Erect the standard there of ancient Night.
Yours be th' advantage all, mine the revenge!"
Thus Satan; and him thus the Anarch old,
With faltering speech and visage incomposed,
Answered:  "I know thee, stranger, who thou art--  ***
That mighty leading Angel, who of late
Made head against Heaven's King, though overthrown.
I saw and heard; for such a numerous host
Fled not in silence through the frighted Deep,
With ruin upon ruin, rout on rout,
Confusion worse confounded; and Heaven-gates
Poured out by millions her victorious bands,
Pursuing. I upon my frontiers here
Keep residence; if all I can will serve
That little which is left so to defend,
Encroached on still through our intestine broils
Weakening the sceptre of old Night: first, Hell,
Your dungeon, stretching far and wide beneath;
Now lately Heaven and Earth, another world
Hung o'er my realm, linked in a golden chain
To that side Heaven from whence your legions fell!
If that way be your walk, you have not far;
So much the nearer danger. Go, and speed;
Havoc, and spoil, and ruin, are my gain."
He ceased; and Satan stayed not to reply,
But, glad that now his sea should find a shore,
With fresh alacrity and force renewed
Springs upward, like a pyramid of fire,
Into the wild expanse, and through the shock
Of fighting elements, on all sides round
Environed, wins his way; harder beset
And more endangered than when Argo passed
Through Bosporus betwixt the justling rocks,
Or when Ulysses on the larboard shunned
Charybdis, and by th' other whirlpool steered.
So he with difficulty and labour hard
Moved on, with difficulty and labour he;
But, he once passed, soon after, when Man fell,
Strange alteration! Sin and Death amain,
Following his track (such was the will of Heaven)
Paved after him a broad and beaten way
Over the dark Abyss, whose boiling gulf
Tamely endured a bridge of wondrous length,
From Hell continued, reaching th' utmost orb
Of this frail World; by which the Spirits perverse
With easy intercourse pass to and fro
To tempt or punish mortals, except whom
God and good Angels guard by special grace.
But now at last the sacred influence
Of light appears, and from the walls of Heaven
Shoots far into the bosom of dim Night
A glimmering dawn. Here Nature first begins
Her farthest verge, and Chaos to retire,
As from her outmost works, a broken foe,
With tumult less and with less hostile din;
That Satan with less toil, and now with ease,
Wafts on the calmer wave by dubious light,
And, like a weather-beaten vessel, holds
Gladly the port, though shrouds and tackle torn;
Or in the emptier waste, resembling air,
Weighs his spread wings, at leisure to behold
Far off th' empyreal Heaven, extended wide
In circuit, undetermined square or round,
With opal towers and battlements adorned
Of living sapphire, once his native seat;
And, fast by, hanging in a golden chain,
This pendent World, in bigness as a star
Of smallest magnitude close by the moon.
Thither, full fraught with mischievous revenge,
Accursed, and in a cursed hour, he hies.
Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven firstborn,
Or of the Eternal coeternal beam
May I express thee unblam'd?  since God is light,
And never but in unapproached light
Dwelt from eternity, dwelt then in thee
Bright effluence of bright essence increate.
Or hear"st thou rather pure ethereal stream,
Whose fountain who shall tell?  before the sun,
Before the Heavens thou wert, and at the voice
Of God, as with a mantle, didst invest  ***
The rising world of waters dark and deep,
Won from the void and formless infinite.
Thee I re-visit now with bolder wing,
Escap'd the Stygian pool, though long detain'd
In that obscure sojourn, while in my flight
Through utter and through middle darkness borne,
With other notes than to the Orphean lyre
I sung of Chaos and eternal Night;
Taught by the heavenly Muse to venture down
The dark descent, and up to re-ascend,
Though hard and rare:  Thee I revisit safe,
And feel thy sovran vital lamp; but thou
Revisit'st not these eyes, that roll in vain
To find thy piercing ray, and find no dawn;
So  thick a drop serene hath quench'd their orbs,
Or dim suffusion veil'd.  Yet not the more
Cease I to wander, where the Muses haunt,
Clear spring, or shady grove, or sunny hill,
Smit with the love of sacred song; but chief
Thee, Sion, and the flowery brooks beneath,
That wash thy hallow'd feet, and warbling flow,
Nightly I visit:  nor sometimes forget
So were I equall'd with them in renown,
Thy sovran command, that Man should find grace;
Blind Thamyris, and blind Maeonides,
And Tiresias, and Phineus, prophets old:
Then feed on thoughts, that voluntary move
Harmonious numbers; as the wakeful bird
Sings darkling, and in shadiest covert hid
Tunes her nocturnal note.  Thus with the year
Seasons return; but not to me returns
Day, or the sweet approach of even or morn,
Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose,
Or flocks, or herds, or human face divine;
But cloud instead, and ever-during dark
Surrounds me, from the cheerful ways of men
Cut off, and for the book of knowledge fair
Presented with a universal blank
Of nature's works to me expung'd and ras'd,
And wisdom at one entrance quite shut out.
So much the rather thou, celestial Light,
Shine inward, and the mind through all her powers
Irradiate; there plant eyes, all mist from thence
Purge and disperse, that I may see and tell
Of things invisible to mortal sight.
Now had the Almighty Father from above,
From the pure empyrean where he sits
High thron'd above all highth, bent down his eye
His own works and their works at once to view:
About him all the Sanctities of Heaven
Stood thick as stars, and from his sight receiv'd
Beatitude past utterance; on his right
The radiant image of his glory sat,
His only son; on earth he first beheld
Our two first parents, yet the only two
Of mankind in the happy garden plac'd
Reaping immortal fruits of joy and love,
Uninterrupted joy, unrivall'd love,
In blissful solitude; he then survey'd
Hell and the gulf between, and Satan there
Coasting the wall of Heaven on this side Night
In the dun air sublime, and ready now
To stoop with wearied wings, and willing feet,
On the bare outside of this world, that seem'd
Firm land imbosom'd, without firmament,
Uncertain which, in ocean or in air.
Him God beholding from his prospect high,
Wherein past, present, future, he beholds,
Thus to his only Son foreseeing spake.
Only begotten Son, seest thou what rage
Transports our Adversary?  whom no bounds
Prescrib'd no bars of Hell, nor all the chains
Heap'd on him there, nor yet the main abyss
Wide interrupt, can hold; so bent he seems
On desperate revenge, that shall redound
Upon his own rebellious head.  And now,
Through all restraint broke loose, he wings his way
Not far off Heaven, in the precincts of light,
Directly towards the new created world,
And man there plac'd, with purpose to assay
If him by force he can destroy, or, worse,
By some false guile pervert; and shall pervert;
For man will hearken to his glozing lies,
And easily transgress the sole command,
Sole pledge of his obedience:  So will fall
He and his faithless progeny:  Whose fault?
Whose but his own?  ingrate, he had of me
All he could have; I made him just and right,
Sufficient to have stood, though free to fall.
Such I created all the ethereal Powers
And Spirits, both them who stood, and them who fail'd;
Freely they stood who stood, and fell who fell.
Not free, what proof could they have given sincere
Of true allegiance, constant faith or love,
Where only what they needs must do appear'd,
Not what they would?  what praise could they receive?
What pleasure I from such obedience paid,
When will and reason (reason also is choice)
Useless and vain, of freedom both despoil'd,
Made passive both, had serv'd necessity,
Not me?  they therefore, as to right belong$ 'd,
So were created, nor can justly accuse
Their Maker, or their making, or their fate,
As if predestination over-rul'd
Their will dispos'd by absolute decree
Or high foreknowledge they themselves decreed
Their own revolt, not I; if I foreknew,
Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault,
Which had no less proved certain unforeknown.
So without least impulse or shadow of fate,
Or aught by me immutably foreseen,
They trespass, authors to themselves in all
Both what they judge, and what they choose; for so
I form'd them free: and free they must remain,
Till they enthrall themselves; I else must change
Their nature, and revoke the high decree
Unchangeable, eternal, which ordain'd
$THeir freedom: they themselves ordain'd their fall.
The first sort by their own suggestion fell,
Self-tempted, self-deprav'd:  Man falls, deceiv'd
By the other first:  Man therefore shall find grace,
The other none:  In mercy and justice both,
Through Heaven and Earth, so shall my glory excel;
But Mercy, first and last, shall brightest shine.
Thus while God spake, ambrosial fragrance fill'd
All Heaven, and in the blessed Spirits elect
Sense of new joy ineffable diffus'd.
Beyond compare the Son of God was seen
Most glorious; in him all his Father shone
Substantially express'd; and in his face
Divine compassion visibly appear'd,
Love without end, and without measure grace,
Which uttering, thus he to his Father spake.
O Father, gracious was that word which clos'd
Thy sovran command, that Man should find grace;
, that Man should find grace;
For which both Heaven and earth shall high extol
Thy praises, with the innumerable sound
Of hymns and sacred songs, wherewith thy throne
Encompass'd shall resound thee ever blest.
For should Man finally be lost, should Man,
Thy creature late so lov'd, thy youngest son,
Fall circumvented thus by fraud, though join'd
With his own folly?  that be from thee far,
That far be from thee, Father, who art judge
Of all things made, and judgest only right.
Or shall the Adversary thus obtain
His end, and frustrate thine?  shall he fulfill
His malice, and thy goodness bring to nought,
Or proud return, though to his heavier doom,
Yet with revenge accomplish'd, and to Hell
Draw after him the whole race of mankind,
By him corrupted?  or wilt thou thyself
Abolish thy creation, and unmake
For him, what for thy glory thou hast made?
So should thy goodness and thy greatness both
Be question'd and blasphem'd without defence.
To whom the great Creator thus replied.
O son, in whom my soul hath chief delight,
Son of my bosom, Son who art alone.
My word, my wisdom, and effectual might,
All hast thou spoken as my thoughts are, all
As my eternal purpose hath decreed;
Man shall not quite be lost, but sav'd who will;
Yet not of will in him, but grace in me
Freely vouchsaf'd; once more I will renew
His lapsed powers, though forfeit; and enthrall'd
By sin to foul exorbitant desires;
Upheld by me, yet once more he shall stand
On even ground against his mortal foe;
By me upheld, that he may know how frail
His fallen condition is, and to me owe
All his deliverance, and to none but me.
Some I have chosen of peculiar grace,
Elect above the rest; so is my will:
The rest shall hear me call, and oft be warn'd
Their sinful state, and to appease betimes
The incensed Deity, while offer'd grace
Invites; for I will clear their senses dark,
What may suffice, and soften stony hearts
To pray, repent, and bring obedience due.
To prayer, repentance, and obedience due,
Though but endeavour'd with sincere intent,
Mine ear shall not be slow, mine eye not shut.
And I will place within them as a guide,
My umpire Conscience; whom if they will hear,
Light after light, well us'd, they shall attain,
And to the end, persisting, safe arrive.
This my long sufferance, and my day of grace,
They who neglect and scorn, shall never taste;
But hard be harden'd, blind be blinded more,
That they may stumble on, and deeper fall;
And none but such from mercy I exclude.
But yet all is not done; Man disobeying,
Disloyal, breaks his fealty, and sins
Against the high supremacy of Heaven,
Affecting God-head, and, so losing all,
To expiate his treason hath nought left,
But to destruction sacred and devote,
He, with his whole posterity, must die,
Die he or justice must; unless for him
Some other able, and as willing, pay
The rigid satisfaction, death for death.
Say, heavenly Powers, where shall we find such love?
Which of you will be mortal, to redeem
Man's mortal crime, and just the unjust to save?
Dwells in all Heaven charity so dear?
And silence was in Heaven: $ on Man's behalf
He ask'd, but all the heavenly quire stood mute,
Patron or intercessour none appear'd,
Much less that durst upon his own head draw
The deadly forfeiture, and ransom set.
And now without redemption all mankind
Must have been lost, adjudg'd to Death and Hell
By doom severe, had not the Son of God,
In whom the fulness dwells of love divine,
His dearest mediation thus renew'd.
Father, thy word is past, Man shall find grace;
And shall grace not find means, that finds her way,
The speediest of thy winged messengers,
To visit all thy creatures, and to all
Comes unprevented, unimplor'd, unsought?
Happy for Man, so coming; he her aid
Can never seek, once dead in sins, and lost;
Atonement for himself, or offering meet,
Indebted and undone, hath none to bring;
Behold me then:  me for him, life for life
I offer: on me let thine anger fall;
Account me Man; I for his sake will leave
Thy bosom, and this glory next to thee
Freely put off, and for him lastly die
Well pleased; on me let Death wreak all his rage.
Under his gloomy power I shall not long
Lie vanquished. Thou hast given me to possess
Life in myself for ever; by thee I live;
Though now to Death I yield, and am his due,
All that of me can die, yet, that debt paid,
$ thou wilt not leave me in the loathsome grave
His prey, nor suffer my unspotted soul
For ever with corruption there to dwell;
But I shall rise victorious, and subdue
My vanquisher, spoiled of his vaunted spoil.
Death his death's wound shall then receive, and stoop
Inglorious, of his mortal sting disarmed;
I through the ample air in triumph high
Shall lead Hell captive maugre Hell, and show
The powers of darkness bound. Thou, at the sight
Pleased, out of Heaven shalt look down and smile,
While, by thee raised, I ruin all my foes;
Death last, and with his carcase glut the grave;
Then, with the multitude of my redeemed,
Shall enter Heaven, long absent, and return,
Father, to see thy face, wherein no cloud
Of anger shall remain, but peace assured
And reconcilement: wrath shall be no more
Thenceforth, but in thy presence joy entire.
His words here ended; but his meek aspect
Silent yet spake, and breathed immortal love
To mortal men, above which only shone
Filial obedience: as a sacrifice
Glad to be offered, he attends the will
Of his great Father. Admiration seized
All Heaven, what this might mean, and whither tend,
Wondering; but soon th' Almighty thus replied.
O thou in Heaven and Earth the only peace
Found out for mankind under wrath, O thou
My sole complacence! Well thou know'st how dear
To me are all my works; nor Man the least,
Though last created, that for him I spare
Thee from my bosom and right hand, to save,
By losing thee a while, the whole race lost.
Thou, therefore, whom thou only canst redeem,
Their nature also to thy nature join;
And be thyself Man among men on Earth,
Made flesh, when time shall be, of virgin seed,
By wondrous birth; be thou in Adam's room
The head of all mankind, though Adam's son.
As in him perish all men, so in thee,
As from a second root, shall be restored
As many as are restored, without thee none.
His crime makes guilty all his sons; thy merit,
Imputed, shall absolve them who renounce
Their own both righteous and unrighteous deeds,
And live in thee transplanted, and from thee
Receive new life.  So Man, as is most just,
Shall satisfy for Man, be judged and die,
And dying rise, and rising with him raise
His brethren, ransomed with his own dear life.
So heavenly love shall outdo hellish hate,
Giving to death, and dying to redeem,
So dearly to redeem what hellish hate
So easily destroyed, and still destroys
In those who, when they may, accept not grace.
Nor shalt thou, by descending to assume
Man's nature, lessen or degrade thine own.
Because thou hast, though throned in highest bliss
Equal to God, and equally enjoying
God-like fruition, quitted all, to save
A world from utter loss, and hast been found
By merit more than birthright Son of God,
Found worthiest to be so by being good,
Far more than great or high; because in thee
Love hath abounded more than glory abounds;
Therefore thy humiliation shall exalt
With thee thy manhood also to this throne:
Here shalt thou sit incarnate, here shalt reign
Both God and Man, Son both of God and Man,
Anointed universal King; all power
I give thee; reign for ever, and assume
Thy merits; under thee, as head supreme,
Thrones, Princedoms, Powers, Dominions, I reduce:
All knees to thee shall bow, of them that bide
In Heaven, or Earth, or under Earth in Hell.
When thou, attended gloriously from Heaven,
Shalt in the sky appear, and from thee send
The summoning Arch-Angels to proclaim
Thy dread tribunal; forthwith from all winds,
The living, and forthwith the cited dead
Of all past ages, to the general doom
Shall hasten; such a peal shall rouse their sleep.
Then, all thy saints assembled, thou shalt judge
Bad Men and Angels; they, arraigned, shall sink
Beneath thy sentence; Hell, her numbers full,
Thenceforth shall be for ever shut.  Mean while
The world shall burn, and from her ashes spring
New Heaven and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell,
And, after all their tribulations long,
See golden days, fruitful of golden deeds,
With joy and peace triumphing, and fair truth.
Then thou thy regal scepter shalt lay by,
For regal scepter then no more shall need,
God shall be all in all.  But, all ye Gods,
Adore him, who to compass all this dies;
Adore the Son, and honour him as me.
No sooner had the Almighty ceased, but all
The multitude of Angels, with a shout
Loud as from numbers without number, sweet
As from blest voices, uttering joy, Heaven rung
With jubilee, and loud Hosannas filled
The eternal regions:  Lowly reverent
Towards either throne they bow, and to the ground
With solemn adoration down they cast
Their crowns inwove with amarant and gold;
Immortal amarant, a flower which once
In Paradise, fast by the tree of life,
Began to bloom; but soon for man's offence
To Heaven removed, where first it grew, there grows,
And flowers aloft shading the fount of life,
And where the river of bliss through midst of Heaven
Rolls o'er Elysian flowers her amber stream;
With these that never fade the Spirits elect
Bind their resplendent locks inwreathed with beams;
Now in loose garlands thick thrown off, the bright
Pavement, that like a sea of jasper shone,
Impurpled with celestial roses smiled.
Then, crowned again, their golden harps they took,
Harps ever tuned, that glittering by their side
Like quivers hung, and with preamble sweet
Of charming symphony they introduce
Their sacred song, and waken raptures high;
No voice exempt, no voice but well could join
Melodious part, such concord is in Heaven.
Thee, Father, first they sung Omnipotent,
Immutable, Immortal, Infinite,
Eternal King; the Author of all being,
Fonntain of light, thyself invisible
Amidst the glorious brightness where thou sit'st
Throned inaccessible, but when thou shadest
The full blaze of thy beams, and, through a cloud
Drawn round about thee like a radiant shrine,
Dark with excessive bright thy skirts appear,
Yet dazzle Heaven, that brightest Seraphim
Approach not, but with both wings veil their eyes.
Thee next they sang of all creation first,
Begotten Son, Divine Similitude,
In whose conspicuous countenance, without cloud
Made visible, the Almighty Father shines,
Whom else no creature can behold; on thee
Impressed the effulgence of his glory abides,
Transfused on thee his ample Spirit rests.
He Heaven of Heavens and all the Powers therein
By thee created; and by thee threw down
The aspiring Dominations:  Thou that day
Thy Father's dreadful thunder didst not spare,
Nor stop thy flaming chariot-wheels, that shook
Heaven's everlasting frame, while o'er the necks
Thou drovest of warring Angels disarrayed.
Back from pursuit thy Powers with loud acclaim
Thee only extolled, Son of thy Father's might,
To execute fierce vengeance on his foes,
Not so on Man:  Him through their malice fallen,
Father of mercy and grace, thou didst not doom
So strictly, but much more to pity incline:
No sooner did thy dear and only Son
Perceive thee purposed not to doom frail Man
So strictly, but much more to pity inclined,
He to appease thy wrath, and end the strife
Of mercy and justice in thy face discerned,
Regardless of the bliss wherein he sat
Second to thee, offered himself to die
For Man's offence.  O unexampled love,
Love no where to be found less than Divine!
Hail, Son of God, Saviour of Men!  Thy name
Shall be the copious matter of my song
Henceforth, and never shall my heart thy praise
Forget, nor from thy Father's praise disjoin.
Thus they in Heaven, above the starry sphere,
Their happy hours in joy and hymning spent.
Mean while upon the firm opacous globe
Of this round world, whose first convex divides
The luminous inferiour orbs, enclosed
From Chaos, and the inroad of Darkness old,
Satan alighted walks:  A globe far off
It seemed, now seems a boundless continent
Dark, waste, and wild, under the frown of Night
Starless exposed, and ever-threatening storms
Of Chaos blustering round, inclement sky;
Save on that side which from the wall of Heaven,
Though distant far, some small reflection gains
Of glimmering air less vexed with tempest loud:
Here walked the Fiend at large in spacious field.
As when a vultur on Imaus bred,
Whose snowy ridge the roving Tartar bounds,
Dislodging from a region scarce of prey
To gorge the flesh of lambs or yeanling kids,
On hills where flocks are fed, flies toward the springs
Of Ganges or Hydaspes, Indian streams;
But in his way lights on the barren plains
Of Sericana, where Chineses drive
With sails and wind their cany waggons light:
So, on this windy sea of land, the Fiend
Walked up and down alone, bent on his prey;
Alone, for other creature in this place,
Living or lifeless, to be found was none;
None yet, but store hereafter from the earth
Up hither like aereal vapours flew
Of all things transitory and vain, when sin
With vanity had filled the works of men:
Both all things vain, and all who in vain things
Built their fond hopes of glory or lasting fame,
Or happiness in this or the other life;
All who have their reward on earth, the fruits
Of painful superstition and blind zeal,
Nought seeking but the praise of men, here find
Fit retribution, empty as their deeds;
All the unaccomplished works of Nature's hand,
Abortive, monstrous, or unkindly mixed,
Dissolved on earth, fleet hither, and in vain,
Till final dissolution, wander here;
Not in the neighbouring moon as some have dreamed;
Those argent fields more likely habitants,
Translated Saints, or middle Spirits hold
Betwixt the angelical and human kind.
Hither of ill-joined sons and daughters born
First from the ancient world those giants came
With many a vain exploit, though then renowned:
The builders next of Babel on the plain
Of Sennaar, and still with vain design,
New Babels, had they wherewithal, would build:
Others came single; he, who, to be deemed
A God, leaped fondly into Aetna flames,
Empedocles; and he, who, to enjoy
Plato's Elysium, leaped into the sea,
Cleombrotus; and many more too long,
Embryos, and idiots, eremites, and friars
White, black, and gray, with all their trumpery.
Here pilgrims roam, that strayed so far to seek
In Golgotha him dead, who lives in Heaven;
And they, who to be sure of Paradise,
Dying, put on the weeds of Dominick,
Or in Franciscan think to pass disguised;
They pass the planets seven, and pass the fixed,
And that crystalling sphere whose balance weighs
The trepidation talked, and that first moved;
And now Saint Peter at Heaven's wicket seems
To wait them with his keys, and now at foot
Of Heaven's ascent they lift their feet, when lo
A violent cross wind from either coast
Blows them transverse, ten thousand leagues awry
Into the devious air:  Then might ye see
Cowls, hoods, and habits, with their wearers, tost
And fluttered into rags; then reliques, beads,
Indulgences, dispenses, pardons, bulls,
The sport of winds:  All these, upwhirled aloft,
Fly o'er the backside of the world far off
Into a Limbo large and broad, since called
The Paradise of Fools, to few unknown
Long after; now unpeopled, and untrod.
All this dark globe the Fiend found as he passed,
And long he wandered, till at last a gleam
Of dawning light turned thither-ward in haste
His travelled steps: far distant he descries
Ascending by degrees magnificent
Up to the wall of Heaven a structure high;
At top whereof, but far more rich, appeared
The work as of a kingly palace-gate,
With frontispiece of diamond and gold
Embellished; thick with sparkling orient gems
The portal shone, inimitable on earth
By model, or by shading pencil, drawn.
These stairs were such as whereon Jacob saw
Angels ascending and descending, bands
Of guardians bright, when he from Esau fled
To Padan-Aram, in the field of Luz
Dreaming by night under the open sky
And waking cried,  This is the gate of Heaven.
Each stair mysteriously was meant, nor stood
There always, but drawn up to Heaven sometimes
Viewless; and underneath a bright sea flowed
Of jasper, or of liquid pearl, whereon
Who after came from earth, failing arrived
Wafted by Angels, or flew o'er the lake
Rapt in a chariot drawn by fiery steeds.
The stairs were then let down, whether to dare
The Fiend by easy ascent, or aggravate
His sad exclusion from the doors of bliss:
Direct against which opened from beneath,
Just o'er the blissful seat of Paradise,
A passage down to the Earth, a passage wide,
Wider by far than that of after-times
Over mount Sion, and, though that were large,
Over the Promised Land to God so dear;
By which, to visit oft those happy tribes,
On high behests his angels to and fro
Passed frequent, and his eye with choice regard
From Paneas, the fount of Jordan's flood,
To Beersaba, where the Holy Land
Borders on Egypt and the Arabian shore;
So wide the opening seemed, where bounds were set
To darkness, such as bound the ocean wave.
Satan from hence, now on the lower stair,
That scaled by steps of gold to Heaven-gate,
Looks down with wonder at the sudden view
Of all this world at once.  As when a scout,
Through dark?;nd desart ways with?oeril gone
All?might,?;t?kast by break of cheerful dawn
Obtains the brow of some high-climbing hill,
Which to his eye discovers unaware
The goodly prospect of some foreign land
First seen, or some renowned metropolis
With glistering spires and pinnacles adorned,
Which now the rising sun gilds with his beams:
Such wonder seised, though after Heaven seen,
The Spirit malign, but much more envy seised,
At sight of all this world beheld so fair.
Round he surveys (and well might, where he stood
So high above the circling canopy
Of night's extended shade,) from eastern point
Of Libra to the fleecy star that bears
Andromeda far off Atlantick seas
Beyond the horizon; then from pole to pole
He views in breadth, and without longer pause
Down right into the world's first region throws
His flight precipitant, and winds with ease
Through the pure marble air his oblique way
Amongst innumerable stars, that shone
Stars distant, but nigh hand seemed other worlds;
Or other worlds they seemed, or happy isles,
Like those Hesperian gardens famed of old,
Fortunate fields, and groves, and flowery vales,
Thrice happy isles; but who dwelt happy there
He staid not to inquire:  Above them all
The golden sun, in splendour likest Heaven,
Allured his eye; thither his course he bends
Through the calm firmament, (but up or down,
By center, or eccentrick, hard to tell,
Or longitude,) where the great luminary
Aloof the vulgar constellations thick,
That from his lordly eye keep distance due,
Dispenses light from far; they, as they move
Their starry dance in numbers that compute
Days, months, and years, towards his all-cheering lamp
Turn swift their various motions, or are turned
By his magnetick beam, that gently warms
The universe, and to each inward part
With gentle penetration, though unseen,
Shoots invisible virtue even to the deep;
So wonderously was set his station bright.
There lands the Fiend, a spot like which perhaps
Astronomer in the sun's lucent orb
Through his glazed optick tube yet never saw.
The place he found beyond expression bright,
Compared with aught on earth, metal or stone;
Not all parts like, but all alike informed
With radiant light, as glowing iron with fire;
If metal, part seemed gold, part silver clear;
If stone, carbuncle most or chrysolite,
Ruby or topaz, to the twelve that shone
In Aaron's breast-plate, and a stone besides
Imagined rather oft than elsewhere seen,
That stone, or like to that which here below
Philosophers in vain so long have sought,
In vain, though by their powerful art they bind
Volatile Hermes, and call up unbound
In various shapes old Proteus from the sea,
Drained through a limbeck to his native form.
What wonder then if fields and regions here
Breathe forth Elixir pure, and rivers run
Potable gold, when with one virtuous touch
The arch-chemick sun, so far from us remote,
Produces, with terrestrial humour mixed,
Here in the dark so many precious things
Of colour glorious, and effect so rare?
Here matter new to gaze the Devil met
Undazzled; far and wide his eye commands;
For sight no obstacle found here, nor shade,
But all sun-shine, as when his beams at noon
Culminate from the equator, as they now
Shot upward still direct, whence no way round
Shadow from body opaque can fall; and the air,
No where so clear, sharpened his visual ray
To objects distant far, whereby he soon
Saw within ken a glorious Angel stand,
The same whom John saw also in the sun:
His back was turned, but not his brightness hid;
Of beaming sunny rays a golden tiar
Circled his head, nor less his locks behind
Illustrious on his shoulders fledge with wings
Lay waving round; on some great charge employed
He seemed, or fixed in cogitation deep.
Glad was the Spirit impure, as now in hope
To find who might direct his wandering flight
To Paradise, the happy seat of Man,
His journey's end and our beginning woe.
But first he casts to change his proper shape,
Which else might work him danger or delay:
And now a stripling Cherub he appears,
Not of the prime, yet such as in his face
Youth smiled celestial, and to every limb
Suitable grace diffused, so well he feigned:
Under a coronet his flowing hair
In curls on either cheek played; wings he wore
Of many a coloured plume, sprinkled with gold;
His habit fit for speed succinct, and held
Before his decent steps a silver wand.
He drew not nigh unheard; the Angel bright,
Ere he drew nigh, his radiant visage turned,
Admonished by his ear, and straight was known
The Arch-Angel Uriel, one of the seven
Who in God's presence, nearest to his throne,
Stand ready at command, and are his eyes
That run through all the Heavens, or down to the Earth
Bear his swift errands over moist and dry,
O'er sea and land: him Satan thus accosts.
Uriel, for thou of those seven Spirits that stand
In sight of God's high throne, gloriously bright,
The first art wont his great authentick will
Interpreter through highest Heaven to bring,
Where all his sons thy embassy attend;
And here art likeliest by supreme decree
Like honour to obtain, and as his eye
To visit oft this new creation round;
Unspeakable desire to see, and know
All these his wonderous works, but chiefly Man,
His chief delight and favour, him for whom
All these his works so wonderous he ordained,
Hath brought me from the quires of Cherubim
Alone thus wandering.  Brightest Seraph, tell
In which of all these shining orbs hath Man
His fixed seat, or fixed seat hath none,
But all these shining orbs his choice to dwell;
That I may find him, and with secret gaze
Or open admiration him behold,
On whom the great Creator hath bestowed
Worlds, and on whom hath all these graces poured;
That both in him and all things, as is meet,
The universal Maker we may praise;
Who justly hath driven out his rebel foes
To deepest Hell, and, to repair that loss,
Created this new happy race of Men
To serve him better:  Wise are all his ways.
So spake the false dissembler unperceived;
For neither Man nor Angel can discern
Hypocrisy, the only evil that walks
Invisible, except to God alone,
By his permissive will, through Heaven and Earth:
And oft, though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps
At wisdom's gate, and to simplicity
Resigns her charge, while goodness thinks no ill
Where no ill seems:  Which now for once beguiled
Uriel, though regent of the sun, and held
The sharpest-sighted Spirit of all in Heaven;
Who to the fraudulent impostor foul,
In his uprightness, answer thus returned.
Fair Angel, thy desire, which tends to know
The works of God, thereby to glorify
The great Work-master, leads to no excess
That reaches blame, but rather merits praise
The more it seems excess, that led thee hither
From thy empyreal mansion thus alone,
To witness with thine eyes what some perhaps,
Contented with report, hear only in Heaven:
For wonderful indeed are all his works,
Pleasant to know, and worthiest to be all
Had in remembrance always with delight;
But what created mind can comprehend
Their number, or the wisdom infinite
That brought them forth, but hid their causes deep?
I saw when at his word the formless mass,
This world's material mould, came to a heap:
Confusion heard his voice, and wild uproar
Stood ruled, stood vast infinitude confined;
Till at his second bidding Darkness fled,
Light shone, and order from disorder sprung:
Swift to their several quarters hasted then
The cumbrous elements, earth, flood, air, fire;
And this ethereal quintessence of Heaven
Flew upward, spirited with various forms,
That rolled orbicular, and turned to stars
Numberless, as thou seest, and how they move;
Each had his place appointed, each his course;
The rest in circuit walls this universe.
Look downward on that globe, whose hither side
With light from hence, though but reflected, shines;
That place is Earth, the seat of Man; that light
His day, which else, as the other hemisphere,
Night would invade; but there the neighbouring moon
So call that opposite fair star) her aid
Timely interposes, and her monthly round
Still ending, still renewing, through mid Heaven,
With borrowed light her countenance triform
Hence fills and empties to enlighten the Earth,
And in her pale dominion checks the night.
That spot, to which I point, is Paradise,
Adam's abode; those lofty shades, his bower.
Thy way thou canst not miss, me mine requires.
Thus said, he turned; and Satan, bowing low,
As to superiour Spirits is wont in Heaven,
Where honour due and reverence none neglects,
Took leave, and toward the coast of earth beneath,
Down from the ecliptick, sped with hoped success,
Throws his steep flight in many an aery wheel;
Nor staid, till on Niphates' top he lights.
O, for that warning voice, which he, who saw
The Apocalypse, heard cry in Heaven aloud,
Then when the Dragon, put to second rout,
Came furious down to be revenged on men,
Woe to the inhabitants on earth! that now,
While time was, our first parents had been warned
The coming of their secret foe, and 'scaped,
Haply so 'scaped his mortal snare:  For now
Satan, now first inflamed with rage, came down,
The tempter ere the accuser of mankind,
To wreak on innocent frail Man his loss
Of that first battle, and his flight to Hell:
Yet, not rejoicing in his speed, though bold
Far off and fearless, nor with cause to boast,
Begins his dire attempt; which nigh the birth
Now rolling boils in his tumultuous breast,
And like a devilish engine back recoils
Upon himself; horrour and doubt distract
His troubled thoughts, and from the bottom stir
The Hell within him; for within him Hell
He brings, and round about him, nor from Hell
One step, no more than from himself, can fly
By change of place:  Now conscience wakes despair,
That slumbered; wakes the bitter memory
Of what he was, what is, and what must be
Worse; of worse deeds worse sufferings must ensue.
Sometimes towards Eden, which now in his view
Lay pleasant, his grieved look he fixes sad;
Sometimes towards Heaven, and the full-blazing sun,
Which now sat high in his meridian tower:
Then, much revolving, thus in sighs began.
O thou, that, with surpassing glory crowned,
Lookest from thy sole dominion like the God
Of this new world; at whose sight all the stars
Hide their diminished heads; to thee I call,
But with no friendly voice, and add thy name,
Of Sun! to tell thee how I hate thy beams,
That bring to my remembrance from what state
I fell, how glorious once above thy sphere;
Till pride and worse ambition threw me down
Warring in Heaven against Heaven's matchless King:
Ah, wherefore! he deserved no such return
From me, whom he created what I was
In that bright eminence, and with his good
Upbraided none; nor was his service hard.
What could be less than to afford him praise,
The easiest recompence, and pay him thanks,
How due! yet all his good proved ill in me,
And wrought but malice; lifted up so high
I sdeined subjection, and thought one step higher
Would set me highest, and in a moment quit
The debt immense of endless gratitude,
So burdensome still paying, still to owe,
Forgetful what from him I still received,
And understood not that a grateful mind
By owing owes not, but still pays, at once
Indebted and discharged; what burden then
O, had his powerful destiny ordained
Me some inferiour Angel, I had stood
Then happy; no unbounded hope had raised
Ambition!  Yet why not some other Power
As great might have aspired, and me, though mean,
Drawn to his part; but other Powers as great
Fell not, but stand unshaken, from within
Or from without, to all temptations armed.
Hadst thou the same free will and power to stand?
Thou hadst: whom hast thou then or what to accuse,
But Heaven's free love dealt equally to all?
Be then his love accursed, since love or hate,
To me alike, it deals eternal woe.
Nay, cursed be thou; since against his thy will
Chose freely what it now so justly rues.
Me miserable! which way shall I fly
Infinite wrath, and infinite despair?
Which way I fly is Hell; myself am Hell;
And, in the lowest deep, a lower deep
Still threatening to devour me opens wide,
To which the Hell I suffer seems a Heaven.
O, then, at last relent:  Is there no place
Left for repentance, none for pardon left?
None left but by submission; and that word
Disdain forbids me, and my dread of shame
Among the Spirits beneath, whom I seduced
With other promises and other vaunts
Than to submit, boasting I could subdue
The Omnipotent.  Ay me! they little know
How dearly I abide that boast so vain,
Under what torments inwardly I groan,
While they adore me on the throne of Hell.
With diadem and scepter high advanced,
The lower still I fall, only supreme
In misery:  Such joy ambition finds.
But say I could repent, and could obtain,
By act of grace, my former state; how soon
Would highth recall high thoughts, how soon unsay
What feigned submission swore?  Ease would recant
Vows made in pain, as violent and void.
For never can true reconcilement grow,
Where wounds of deadly hate have pierced so deep:
Which would but lead me to a worse relapse
And heavier fall:  so should I purchase dear
Short intermission bought with double smart.
This knows my Punisher; therefore as far
From granting he, as I from begging, peace;
All hope excluded thus, behold, in stead
Mankind created, and for him this world.
So farewell, hope; and with hope farewell, fear;
Farewell, remorse! all good to me is lost;
Evil, be thou my good; by thee at least
Divided empire with Heaven's King I hold,
By thee, and more than half perhaps will reign;
As Man ere long, and this new world, shall know.
Thus while he spake, each passion dimmed his face
Thrice changed with pale, ire, envy, and despair;
Which marred his borrowed visage, and betrayed
Him counterfeit, if any eye beheld.
For heavenly minds from such distempers foul
Are ever clear.  Whereof he soon aware,
Each perturbation smoothed with outward calm,
Artificer of fraud; and was the first
That practised falsehood under saintly show,
Deep malice to conceal, couched with revenge:
Yet not enough had practised to deceive
Uriel once warned; whose eye pursued him down
The way he went, and on the Assyrian mount
Saw him disfigured, more than could befall
Spirit of happy sort; his gestures fierce
He marked and mad demeanour, then alone,
As he supposed, all unobserved, unseen.
So on he fares, and to the border comes
Of Eden, where delicious Paradise,
Now nearer, crowns with her enclosure green,
As with a rural mound, the champaign head
Of a steep wilderness, whose hairy sides
Access denied; and overhead upgrew
Insuperable height of loftiest shade,
Cedar, and pine, and fir, and branching palm,
A sylvan scene, and, as the ranks ascend,
Shade above shade, a woody theatre
Of stateliest view. Yet higher than their tops
The verdurous wall of Paradise upsprung;
Which to our general sire gave prospect large
Into his nether empire neighbouring round.
And higher than that wall a circling row
Of goodliest trees, loaden with fairest fruit,
Blossoms and fruits at once of golden hue,
Appeared, with gay enamelled colours mixed:
On which the sun more glad impressed his beams
Than in fair evening cloud, or humid bow,
When God hath showered the earth; so lovely seemed
That landskip:  And of pure now purer air
Meets his approach, and to the heart inspires
Vernal delight and joy, able to drive
All sadness but despair:  Now gentle gales,
Fanning their odoriferous wings, dispense
Native perfumes, and whisper whence they stole
Those balmy spoils.  As when to them who fail
Beyond the Cape of Hope, and now are past
Mozambick, off at sea north-east winds blow
Sabean odours from the spicy shore
Of Araby the blest; with such delay
Well pleased they slack their course, and many a league
Cheered with the grateful smell old Ocean smiles:
So entertained those odorous sweets the Fiend,
Who came their bane; though with them better pleased
Than Asmodeus with the fishy fume
That drove him, though enamoured, from the spouse
Of Tobit's son, and with a vengeance sent
From Media post to Egypt, there fast bound.
Now to the ascent of that steep savage hill
Satan had journeyed on, pensive and slow;
But further way found none, so thick entwined,
As one continued brake, the undergrowth
Of shrubs and tangling bushes had perplexed
All path of man or beast that passed that way.
One gate there only was, and that looked east
On the other side: which when the arch-felon saw,
Due entrance he disdained; and, in contempt,
At one flight bound high over-leaped all bound
Of hill or highest wall, and sheer within
Lights on his feet.  As when a prowling wolf,
Whom hunger drives to seek new haunt for prey,
Watching where shepherds pen their flocks at eve
In hurdled cotes amid the field secure,
Leaps o'er the fence with ease into the fold:
Or as a thief, bent to unhoard the cash
Of some rich burgher, whose substantial doors,
Cross-barred and bolted fast, fear no assault,
In at the window climbs, or o'er the tiles:
So clomb this first grand thief into God's fold;
So since into his church lewd hirelings climb.
Thence up he flew, and on the tree of life,
The middle tree and highest there that grew,
Sat like a cormorant; yet not true life
Thereby regained, but sat devising death
To them who lived; nor on the virtue thought
Of that life-giving plant, but only used
For prospect, what well used had been the pledge
Of immortality.  So little knows
Any, but God alone, to value right
The good before him, but perverts best things
To worst abuse, or to their meanest use.
Beneath him with new wonder now he views,
To all delight of human sense exposed,
In narrow room, Nature's whole wealth, yea more,
A Heaven on Earth:  For blissful Paradise
Of God the garden was, by him in the east
Of Eden planted; Eden stretched her line
From Auran eastward to the royal towers
Of great Seleucia, built by Grecian kings,
Of where the sons of Eden long before
Dwelt in Telassar:  In this pleasant soil
His far more pleasant garden God ordained;
Out of the fertile ground he caused to grow
All trees of noblest kind for sight, smell, taste;
And all amid them stood the tree of life,
High eminent, blooming ambrosial fruit
Of vegetable gold; and next to life,
Our death, the tree of knowledge, grew fast by,
Knowledge of good bought dear by knowing ill.
Southward through Eden went a river large,
Nor changed his course, but through the shaggy hill
Passed underneath ingulfed; for God had thrown
That mountain as his garden-mould high raised
Upon the rapid current, which, through veins
Of porous earth with kindly thirst up-drawn,
Rose a fresh fountain, and with many a rill
Watered the garden; thence united fell
Down the steep glade, and met the nether flood,
Which from his darksome passage now appears,
And now, divided into four main streams,
Runs diverse, wandering many a famous realm
And country, whereof here needs no account;
But rather to tell how, if Art could tell,
How from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks,
Rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold,
With mazy errour under pendant shades
Ran nectar, visiting each plant, and fed
Flowers worthy of Paradise, which not nice Art
In beds and curious knots, but Nature boon
Poured forth profuse on hill, and dale, and plain,
Both where the morning sun first warmly smote
The open field, and where the unpierced shade
Imbrowned the noontide bowers:  Thus was this place
A happy rural seat of various view;
Groves whose rich trees wept odorous gums and balm,
Others whose fruit, burnished with golden rind,
Hung amiable, Hesperian fables true,
If true, here only, and of delicious taste:
Betwixt them lawns, or level downs, and flocks
Grazing the tender herb, were interposed,
Or palmy hillock; or the flowery lap
Of some irriguous valley spread her store,
Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose:
Another side, umbrageous grots and caves
Of cool recess, o'er which the mantling vine
Lays forth her purple grape, and gently creeps
Luxuriant; mean while murmuring waters fall
Down the slope hills, dispersed, or in a lake,
That to the fringed bank with myrtle crowned
Her crystal mirrour holds, unite their streams.
The birds their quire apply; airs, vernal airs,
Breathing the smell of field and grove, attune
The trembling leaves, while universal Pan,
Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance,
Led on the eternal Spring.  Not that fair field
Of Enna, where Proserpine gathering flowers,
Herself a fairer flower by gloomy Dis
Was gathered, which cost Ceres all that pain
To seek her through the world; nor that sweet grove
Of Daphne by Orontes, and the inspired
Castalian spring, might with this Paradise
Of Eden strive; nor that Nyseian isle
Girt with the river Triton, where old Cham,
Whom Gentiles Ammon call and Libyan Jove,
Hid Amalthea, and her florid son
Young Bacchus, from his stepdame Rhea's eye;
Nor where Abassin kings their issue guard,
Mount Amara, though this by some supposed
True Paradise under the Ethiop line
By Nilus' head, enclosed with shining rock,
A whole day's journey high, but wide remote
From this Assyrian garden, where the Fiend
Saw, undelighted, all delight, all kind
Of living creatures, new to sight, and strange
Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall,
Godlike erect, with native honour clad
In naked majesty seemed lords of all:
And worthy seemed; for in their looks divine
The image of their glorious Maker shone,
Truth, wisdom, sanctitude severe and pure,
(Severe, but in true filial freedom placed,)
Whence true authority in men; though both
Not equal, as their sex not equal seemed;
For contemplation he and valour formed;
For softness she and sweet attractive grace;
He for God only, she for God in him:
His fair large front and eye sublime declared
Absolute rule; and hyacinthine locks
Round from his parted forelock manly hung
Clustering, but not beneath his shoulders broad:
She, as a veil, down to the slender waist
Her unadorned golden tresses wore
Dishevelled, but in wanton ringlets waved
As the vine curls her tendrils, which implied
Subjection, but required with gentle sway,
And by her yielded, by him best received,
Yielded with coy submission, modest pride,
And sweet, reluctant, amorous delay.
Nor those mysterious parts were then concealed;
Then was not guilty shame, dishonest shame
Of nature's works, honour dishonourable,
Sin-bred, how have ye troubled all mankind
With shows instead, mere shows of seeming pure,
And banished from man's life his happiest life,
Simplicity and spotless innocence!
So passed they naked on, nor shunned the sight
Of God or Angel; for they thought no ill:
So hand in hand they passed, the loveliest pair,
That ever since in love's embraces met;
Adam the goodliest man of men since born
His sons, the fairest of her daughters Eve.
Under a tuft of shade that on a green
Stood whispering soft, by a fresh fountain side
They sat them down; and, after no more toil
Of their sweet gardening labour than sufficed
To recommend cool Zephyr, and made ease
More easy, wholesome thirst and appetite
More grateful, to their supper-fruits they fell,
Nectarine fruits which the compliant boughs
Yielded them, side-long as they sat recline
On the soft downy bank damasked with flowers:
The savoury pulp they chew, and in the rind,
Still as they thirsted, scoop the brimming stream;
Nor gentle purpose, nor endearing smiles
Wanted, nor youthful dalliance, as beseems
Fair couple, linked in happy nuptial league,
Alone as they.  About them frisking played
All beasts of the earth, since wild, and of all chase
In wood or wilderness, forest or den;
Sporting the lion ramped, and in his paw
Dandled the kid; bears, tigers, ounces, pards,
Gambolled before them; the unwieldy elephant,
To make them mirth, used all his might, and wreathed
His?kithetmroboscis; close the serpent sly,
Insinuating, wove with Gordian twine
His braided train, and of his fatal guile
Gave proof unheeded; others on the grass
Couched, and now filled with pasture gazing sat,
Or bedward ruminating; for the sun,
Declined, was hasting now with prone career
To the ocean isles, and in the ascending scale
Of Heaven the stars that usher evening rose:
When Satan still in gaze, as first he stood,
Scarce thus at length failed speech recovered sad.
O Hell! what do mine eyes with grief behold!
Into our room of bliss thus high advanced
Creatures of other mould, earth-born perhaps,
Not Spirits, yet to heavenly Spirits bright
Little inferiour; whom my thoughts pursue
With wonder, and could love, so lively shines
In them divine resemblance, and such grace
The hand that formed them on their shape hath poured.
Ah! gentle pair, ye little think how nigh
Your change approaches, when all these delights
Will vanish, and deliver ye to woe;
More woe, the more your taste is now of joy;
Happy, but for so happy ill secured
Long to continue, and this high seat your Heaven
Ill fenced for Heaven to keep out such a foe
As now is entered; yet no purposed foe
To you, whom I could pity thus forlorn,
Though I unpitied:  League with you I seek,
And mutual amity, so strait, so close,
That I with you must dwell, or you with me
Henceforth; my dwelling haply may not please,
Like this fair Paradise, your sense; yet such
Accept your Maker's work; he gave it me,
Which I as freely give:  Hell shall unfold,
To entertain you two, her widest gates,
And send forth all her kings; there will be room,
Not like these narrow limits, to receive
Your numerous offspring; if no better place,
Thank him who puts me loth to this revenge
On you who wrong me not for him who wronged.
And should I at your harmless innocence
Melt, as I do, yet publick reason just,
Honour and empire with revenge enlarged,
By conquering this new world, compels me now
To do what else, though damned, I should abhor.
So spake the Fiend, and with necessity,
The tyrant's plea, excused his devilish deeds.
Then from his lofty stand on that high tree
Down he alights among the sportful herd
Of those four-footed kinds, himself now one,
Now other, as their shape served best his end
Nearer to view his prey, and, unespied,
To mark what of their state he more might learn,
By word or action marked. About them round
A lion now he stalks with fiery glare;
Then as a tiger, who by chance hath spied
In some purlieu two gentle fawns at play,
Straight couches close, then, rising, changes oft
His couchant watch, as one who chose his ground,
Whence rushing, he might surest seize them both,
Griped in each paw: when, Adam first of men
To first of women Eve thus moving speech,
Turned him, all ear to hear new utterance flow.
Sole partner, and sole part, of all these joys,
Dearer thyself than all; needs must the Power
That made us, and for us this ample world,
Be infinitely good, and of his good
As liberal and free as infinite;
That raised us from the dust, and placed us here
In all this happiness, who at his hand
Have nothing merited, nor can perform
Aught whereof he hath need; he who requires
From us no other service than to keep
This one, this easy charge, of all the trees
In Paradise that bear delicious fruit
So various, not to taste that only tree
Of knowledge, planted by the tree of life;
So near grows death to life, whate'er death is,
Some dreadful thing no doubt; for well thou knowest
God hath pronounced it death to taste that tree,
The only sign of our obedience left,
Among so many signs of power and rule
Conferred upon us, and dominion given
Over all other creatures that possess
Earth, air, and sea.  Then let us not think hard
One easy prohibition, who enjoy
Free leave so large to all things else, and choice
Unlimited of manifold delights:
But let us ever praise him, and extol
His bounty, following our delightful task,
To prune these growing plants, and tend these flowers,
Which were it toilsome, yet with thee were sweet.
To whom thus Eve replied.  O thou for whom
And from whom I was formed, flesh of thy flesh,
And without whom am to no end, my guide
And head! what thou hast said is just and right.
For we to him indeed all praises owe,
And daily thanks; I chiefly, who enjoy
So far the happier lot, enjoying thee
Pre-eminent by so much odds, while thou
Like consort to thyself canst no where find.
That day I oft remember, when from sleep
I first awaked, and found myself reposed
Under a shade on flowers, much wondering where
And what I was, whence thither brought, and how.
Not distant far from thence a murmuring sound
Of waters issued from a cave, and spread
Into a liquid plain, then stood unmoved
Pure as the expanse of Heaven; I thither went
With unexperienced thought, and laid me down
On the green bank, to look into the clear
Smooth lake, that to me seemed another sky.
As I bent down to look, just opposite
A shape within the watery gleam appeared,
Bending to look on me:  I started back,
It started back; but pleased I soon returned,
Pleased it returned as soon with answering looks
Of sympathy and love:  There I had fixed
Mine eyes till now, and pined with vain desire,
Had not a voice thus warned me;  'What thou seest,
'What there thou seest, fair Creature, is thyself;
'With thee it came and goes: but follow me,
'And I will bring thee where no shadow stays
'Thy coming, and thy soft embraces, he
'Whose image thou art; him thou shalt enjoy
'Inseparably thine, to him shalt bear
'Multitudes like thyself, and thence be called
'Mother of human race.'  What could I do,
But follow straight, invisibly thus led?
Till I espied thee, fair indeed and tall,
Under a platane; yet methought less fair,
Less winning soft, less amiably mild,
Than that smooth watery image:  Back I turned;
Thou following cryedst aloud, 'Return, fair Eve;
'Whom flyest thou?  whom thou flyest, of him thou art,
'His flesh, his bone; to give thee being I lent
'Out of my side to thee, nearest my heart,
'Substantial life, to have thee by my side
'Henceforth an individual solace dear;
'Part of my soul I seek thee, and thee claim
'My other half:'  With that thy gentle hand
Seised mine:  I yielded;and from that time see
How beauty is excelled by manly grace,
And wisdom, which alone is truly fair.
So spake our general mother, and with eyes
Of conjugal attraction unreproved,
And meek surrender, half-embracing leaned
On our first father; half her swelling breast
Naked met his, under the flowing gold
Of her loose tresses hid: he in delight
Both of her beauty, and submissive charms,
Smiled with superiour love, as Jupiter
On Juno smiles, when he impregns the clouds
That shed Mayflowers; and pressed her matron lip
With kisses pure:  Aside the Devil turned
For envy; yet with jealous leer malign
Eyed them askance, and to himself thus plained.
Sight hateful, sight tormenting! thus these two,
Imparadised in one another's arms,
The happier Eden, shall enjoy their fill
Of bliss on bliss; while I to Hell am thrust,
Where neither joy nor love, but fierce desire,
Among our other torments not the least,
Still unfulfilled with pain of longing pines.
Yet let me not forget what I have gained
From their own mouths:  All is not theirs, it seems;
One fatal tree there stands, of knowledge called,
Forbidden them to taste:  Knowledge forbidden
Suspicious, reasonless.  Why should their Lord
Envy them that?  Can it be sin to know?
Can it be death?  And do they only stand
By ignorance?  Is that their happy state,
The proof of their obedience and their faith?
O fair foundation laid whereon to build
Their ruin! hence I will excite their minds
With more desire to know, and to reject
Envious commands, invented with design
To keep them low, whom knowledge might exalt
Equal with Gods: aspiring to be such,
They taste and die:  What likelier can ensue
But first with narrow search I must walk round
This garden, and no corner leave unspied;
A chance but chance may lead where I may meet
Some wandering Spirit of Heaven by fountain side,
Or in thick shade retired, from him to draw
What further would be learned.  Live while ye may,
Yet happy pair; enjoy, till I return,
Short pleasures, for long woes are to succeed!
So saying, his proud step he scornful turned,
But with sly circumspection, and began
Through wood, through waste, o'er hill, o'er dale, his roam
Mean while in utmost longitude, where Heaven
With earth and ocean meets, the setting sun
Slowly descended, and with right aspect
Against the eastern gate of Paradise
Levelled his evening rays:  It was a rock
Of alabaster, piled up to the clouds,
Conspicuous far, winding with one ascent
Accessible from earth, one entrance high;
The rest was craggy cliff, that overhung
Still as it rose, impossible to climb.
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat,
Chief of the angelick guards, awaiting night;
About him exercised heroick games
The unarmed youth of Heaven, but nigh at hand
Celestial armoury, shields, helms, and spears,
Hung high with diamond flaming, and with gold.
Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even
On a sun-beam, swift as a shooting star
In autumn thwarts the night, when vapours fired
Impress the air, and shows the mariner
From what point of his compass to beware
Impetuous winds:  He thus began in haste.
Gabriel, to thee thy course by lot hath given
Charge and strict watch, that to this happy place
No evil thing approach or enter in.
This day at highth of noon came to my sphere
A Spirit, zealous, as he seemed, to know
More of the Almighty's works, and chiefly Man,
God's latest image:  I described his way
Bent all on speed, and marked his aery gait;
But in the mount that lies from Eden north,
Where he first lighted, soon discerned his looks
Alien from Heaven, with passions foul obscured:
Mine eye pursued him still, but under shade
Lost sight of him:  One of the banished crew,
I fear, hath ventured from the deep, to raise
New troubles; him thy care must be to find.
To whom the winged warriour thus returned.
Uriel, no wonder if thy perfect sight,
Amid the sun's bright circle where thou sitst,
See far and wide:  In at this gate none pass
The vigilance here placed, but such as come
Well known from Heaven; and since meridian hour
No creature thence:  If Spirit of other sort,
So minded, have o'er-leaped these earthly bounds
On purpose, hard thou knowest it to exclude
Spiritual substance with corporeal bar.
But if within the circuit of these walks,
In whatsoever shape he lurk, of whom
Thou tellest, by morrow dawning I shall know.
So promised he; and Uriel to his charge
Returned on that bright beam, whose point now raised
Bore him slope downward to the sun now fallen
Beneath the Azores; whether the prime orb,
Incredible how swift, had thither rolled
Diurnal, or this less volubil earth,
By shorter flight to the east, had left him there
Arraying with reflected purple and gold
The clouds that on his western throne attend.
Now came still Evening on, and Twilight gray
Had in her sober livery all things clad;
Silence accompanied; for beast and bird,
They to their grassy couch, these to their nests
Were slunk, all but the wakeful nightingale;
She all night long her amorous descant sung;
Silence was pleased:  Now glowed the firmament
With living sapphires:  Hesperus, that led
The starry host, rode brightest, till the moon,
Rising in clouded majesty, at length
Apparent queen unveiled her peerless light,
And o'er the dark her silver mantle threw.
When Adam thus to Eve.  Fair Consort, the hour
Of night, and all things now retired to rest,
Mind us of like repose; since God hath set
Labour and rest, as day and night, to men
Successive; and the timely dew of sleep,
Now falling with soft slumbrous weight, inclines
Our eye-lids:  Other creatures all day long
Rove idle, unemployed, and less need rest;
Man hath his daily work of body or mind
Appointed, which declares his dignity,
And the regard of Heaven on all his ways;
While other animals unactive range,
And of their doings God takes no account.
To-morrow, ere fresh morning streak the east
With first approach of light, we must be risen,
And at our pleasant labour, to reform
Yon flowery arbours, yonder alleys green,
Our walk at noon, with branches overgrown,
That mock our scant manuring, and require
More hands than ours to lop their wanton growth:
Those blossoms also, and those dropping gums,
That lie bestrown, unsightly and unsmooth,
Ask riddance, if we mean to tread with ease;
Mean while, as Nature wills, night bids us rest.
To whom thus Eve, with perfect beauty adorned
My Author and Disposer, what thou bidst
Unargued I obey:  So God ordains;
God is thy law, thou mine:  To know no more
Is woman's happiest knowledge, and her praise.
With thee conversing I forget all time;
All seasons, and their change, all please alike.
Sweet is the breath of Morn, her rising sweet,
With charm of earliest birds:  pleasant the sun,
When first on this delightful land he spreads
His orient beams, on herb, tree, fruit, and flower,
Glistering with dew; fragrant the fertile earth
After soft showers; and sweet the coming on
Of grateful Evening mild; then silent Night,
With this her solemn bird, and this fair moon,
And these the gems of Heaven, her starry train:
But neither breath of Morn, when she ascends
With charm of earliest birds; nor rising sun
On this delightful land; nor herb, fruit, flower,
Glistering with dew; nor fragrance after showers;
Nor grateful Evening mild; nor silent Night,
With this her solemn bird, nor walk by moon,
Or glittering star-light, without thee is sweet.
But wherefore all night long shine these? for whom
This glorious sight, when sleep hath shut all eyes?
To whom our general ancestor replied.
Daughter of God and Man, accomplished Eve,
These have their course to finish round the earth,
By morrow evening, and from land to land
In order, though to nations yet unborn,
Ministring light prepared, they set and rise;
Lest total Darkness should by night regain
Her old possession, and extinguish life
In Nature and all things; which these soft fires
Not only enlighten, but with kindly heat
Of various influence foment and warm,
Temper or nourish, or in part shed down
Their stellar virtue on all kinds that grow
On earth, made hereby apter to receive
Perfection from the sun's more potent ray.
These then, though unbeheld in deep of night,
Shine not in vain; nor think, though men were none,
That Heaven would want spectators, God want praise:
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
Unseen, both when we wake, and when we sleep:
All these with ceaseless praise his works behold
Both day and night:  How often from the steep
Of echoing hill or thicket have we heard
Celestial voices to the midnight air,
Sole, or responsive each to others note,
Singing their great Creator? oft in bands
While they keep watch, or nightly rounding walk,
With heavenly touch of instrumental sounds
In full harmonick number joined, their songs
Divide the night, and lift our thoughts to Heaven.
Thus talking, hand in hand alone they passed
On to their blissful bower: it was a place
Chosen by the sovran Planter, when he framed
All things to Man's delightful use; the roof
Of thickest covert was inwoven shade
Laurel and myrtle, and what higher grew
Of firm and fragrant leaf; on either side
Acanthus, and each odorous bushy shrub,
Fenced up the verdant wall; each beauteous flower,
Iris all hues, roses, and jessamin,
Reared high their flourished heads between, and wrought
Mosaick; underfoot the violet,
Crocus, and hyacinth, with rich inlay
Broidered the ground, more coloured than with stone
Of costliest emblem:  Other creature here,
Bird, beast, insect, or worm, durst enter none,
Such was their awe of Man.  In shadier bower
More sacred and sequestered, though but feigned,
Pan or Sylvanus never slept, nor Nymph
Nor Faunus haunted.  Here, in close recess,
With flowers, garlands, and sweet-smelling herbs,
Espoused Eve decked first her nuptial bed;
And heavenly quires the hymenaean sung,
What day the genial Angel to our sire
Brought her in naked beauty more adorned,
More lovely, than Pandora, whom the Gods
Endowed with all their gifts, and O! too like
In sad event, when to the unwiser son
Of Japhet brought by Hermes, she ensnared
Mankind with her fair looks, to be avenged
On him who had stole Jove's authentick fire.
Thus, at their shady lodge arrived, both stood,
Both turned, and under open sky adored
The God that made both sky, air, earth, and heaven,
Which they beheld, the moon's resplendent globe,
And starry pole:  Thou also madest the night,
Maker Omnipotent, and thou the day,
Which we, in our appointed work employed,
Have finished, happy in our mutual help
And mutual love, the crown of all our bliss
Ordained by thee; and this delicious place
For us too large, where thy abundance wants
Partakers, and uncropt falls to the ground.
But thou hast promised from us two a race
To fill the earth, who shall with us extol
Thy goodness infinite, both when we wake,
And when we seek, as now, thy gift of sleep.
This said unanimous, and other rites
Observing none, but adoration pure
Which God likes best, into their inmost bower
Handed they went; and, eased the putting off
These troublesome disguises which we wear,
Straight side by side were laid; nor turned, I ween,
Adam from his fair spouse, nor Eve the rites
Mysterious of connubial love refused:
Whatever hypocrites austerely talk
Of purity, and place, and innocence,
Defaming as impure what God declares
Pure, and commands to some, leaves free to all.
Our Maker bids encrease; who bids abstain
But our Destroyer, foe to God and Man?
Hail, wedded Love, mysterious law, true source
Of human offspring, sole propriety
In Paradise of all things common else!
By thee adulterous Lust was driven from men
Among the bestial herds to range; by thee
Founded in reason, loyal, just, and pure,
Relations dear, and all the charities
Of father, son, and brother, first were known.
Far be it, that I should write thee sin or blame,
Or think thee unbefitting holiest place,
Perpetual fountain of domestick sweets,
Whose bed is undefiled and chaste pronounced,
Present, or past, as saints and patriarchs used.
Here Love his golden shafts employs, here lights
His constant lamp, and waves his purple wings,
Reigns here and revels; not in the bought smile
Of harlots, loveless, joyless, unendeared,
Casual fruition; nor in court-amours,
Mixed dance, or wanton mask, or midnight ball,
Or serenate, which the starved lover sings
To his proud fair, best quitted with disdain.
These, lulled by nightingales, embracing slept,
And on their naked limbs the flowery roof
Showered roses, which the morn repaired.  Sleep on,
Blest pair; and O!yet happiest, if ye seek
No happier state, and know to know no more.
Now had night measured with her shadowy cone
Half way up hill this vast sublunar vault,
And from their ivory port the Cherubim,
Forth issuing at the accustomed hour, stood armed
To their night watches in warlike parade;
When Gabriel to his next in power thus spake.
Uzziel, half these draw off, and coast the south
With strictest watch; these other wheel the north;
Our circuit meets full west.  As flame they part,
Half wheeling to the shield, half to the spear.
From these, two strong and subtle Spirits he called
That near him stood, and gave them thus in charge.
Ithuriel and Zephon, with winged speed
Search through this garden, leave unsearched no nook;
But chiefly where those two fair creatures lodge,
Now laid perhaps asleep, secure of harm.
This evening from the sun's decline arrived,
Who tells of some infernal Spirit seen
Hitherward bent (who could have thought?) escaped
The bars of Hell, on errand bad no doubt:
Such, where ye find, seise fast, and hither bring.
So saying, on he led his radiant files,
Dazzling the moon; these to the bower direct
In search of whom they sought:  Him there they found
Squat like a toad, close at the ear of Eve,
Assaying by his devilish art to reach
The organs of her fancy, and with them forge
Illusions, as he list, phantasms and dreams;
Or if, inspiring venom, he might taint
The animal spirits, that from pure blood arise
Like gentle breaths from rivers pure, thence raise
At least distempered, discontented thoughts,
Vain hopes, vain aims, inordinate desires,
Blown up with high conceits ingendering pride.
Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear
Touched lightly; for no falshood can endure
Touch of celestial temper, but returns
Of force to its own likeness:  Up he starts
Discovered and surprised.  As when a spark
Lights on a heap of nitrous powder, laid
Fit for the tun some magazine to store
Against a rumoured war, the smutty grain,
With sudden blaze diffused, inflames the air;
So started up in his own shape the Fiend.
Back stept those two fair Angels, half amazed
So sudden to behold the grisly king;
Yet thus, unmoved with fear, accost him soon.
Which of those rebel Spirits adjudged to Hell
Comest thou, escaped thy prison? and, transformed,
Why sat'st thou like an enemy in wait,
Here watching at the head of these that sleep?
Know ye not then said Satan, filled with scorn,
Know ye not me? ye knew me once no mate
For you, there sitting where ye durst not soar:
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown,
The lowest of your throng; or, if ye know,
Why ask ye, and superfluous begin
Your message, like to end as much in vain?
To whom thus Zephon, answering scorn with scorn.
Think not, revolted Spirit, thy shape the same,
Or undiminished brightness to be known,
As when thou stoodest in Heaven upright and pure;
That glory then, when thou no more wast good,
Departed from thee; and thou resemblest now
Thy sin and place of doom obscure and foul.
But come, for thou, be sure, shalt give account
To him who sent us, whose charge is to keep
This place inviolable, and these from harm.
So spake the Cherub; and his grave rebuke,
Severe in youthful beauty, added grace
Invincible:  Abashed the Devil stood,
And felt how awful goodness is, and saw
Virtue in her shape how lovely; saw, and pined
His loss; but chiefly to find here observed
His lustre visibly impaired; yet seemed
Undaunted.  If I must contend, said he,
Best with the best, the sender, not the sent,
Or all at once; more glory will be won,
Or less be lost.  Thy fear, said Zephon bold,
Will save us trial what the least can do
Single against thee wicked, and thence weak.
The Fiend replied not, overcome with rage;
But, like a proud steed reined, went haughty on,
Champing his iron curb:  To strive or fly
He held it vain; awe from above had quelled
His heart, not else dismayed.  Now drew they nigh
The western point, where those half-rounding guards
Just met, and closing stood in squadron joined,
A waiting next command.  To whom their Chief,
Gabriel, from the front thus called aloud.
O friends!  I hear the tread of nimble feet
Hasting this way, and now by glimpse discern
Ithuriel and Zephon through the shade;
And with them comes a third of regal port,
But faded splendour wan; who by his gait
And fierce demeanour seems the Prince of Hell,
Not likely to part hence without contest;
Stand firm, for in his look defiance lours.
He scarce had ended, when those two approached,
And brief related whom they brought, where found,
How busied, in what form and posture couched.
To whom with stern regard thus Gabriel spake.
Why hast thou, Satan, broke the bounds prescribed
To thy transgressions, and disturbed the charge
Of others, who approve not to transgress
By thy example, but have power and right
To question thy bold entrance on this place;
Employed, it seems, to violate sleep, and those
Whose dwelling God hath planted here in bliss!
To whom thus Satan with contemptuous brow.
Gabriel? thou hadst in Heaven the esteem of wise,
And such I held thee; but this question asked
Puts me in doubt.  Lives there who loves his pain!
Who would not, finding way, break loose from Hell,
Though thither doomed!  Thou wouldst thyself, no doubt
And boldly venture to whatever place
Farthest from pain, where thou mightst hope to change
Torment with ease, and soonest recompense
Dole with delight, which in this place I sought;
To thee no reason, who knowest only good,
But evil hast not tried: and wilt object
His will who bounds us!  Let him surer bar
His iron gates, if he intends our stay
In that dark durance:  Thus much what was asked.
The rest is true, they found me where they say;
But that implies not violence or harm.
Thus he in scorn.  The warlike Angel moved,
Disdainfully half smiling, thus replied.
O loss of one in Heaven to judge of wise
Since Satan fell, whom folly overthrew,
And now returns him from his prison 'scaped,
Gravely in doubt whether to hold them wise
Or not, who ask what boldness brought him hither
Unlicensed from his bounds in Hell prescribed;
So wise he judges it to fly from pain
However, and to 'scape his punishment!
So judge thou still, presumptuous! till the wrath,
Which thou incurrest by flying, meet thy flight
Sevenfold, and scourge that wisdom back to Hell,
Which taught thee yet no better, that no pain
Can equal anger infinite provoked.
But wherefore thou alone? wherefore with thee
Came not all hell broke loose? or thou than they
Less hardy to endure?  Courageous Chief!
The first in flight from pain! hadst thou alleged
To thy deserted host this cause of flight,
Thou surely hadst not come sole fugitive.
To which the Fiend thus answered, frowning stern.
Not that I less endure, or shrink from pain,
Insulting Angel! well thou knowest I stood
Thy fiercest, when in battle to thy aid
The blasting vollied thunder made all speed,
And seconded thy else not dreaded spear.
But still thy words at random, as before,
Argue thy inexperience what behoves
From hard assays and ill successes past
A faithful leader, not to hazard all
Through ways of danger by himself untried:
I, therefore, I alone first undertook
To wing the desolate abyss, and spy
This new created world, whereof in Hell
Fame is not silent, here in hope to find
Better abode, and my afflicted Powers
To settle here on earth, or in mid air;
Though for possession put to try once more
What thou and thy gay legions dare against;
Whose easier business were to serve their Lord
High up in Heaven, with songs to hymn his throne,
And practised distances to cringe, not fight,
To whom the warriour Angel soon replied.
To say and straight unsay, pretending first
Wise to fly pain, professing next the spy,
Argues no leader but a liear traced,
Satan, and couldst thou faithful add?  O name,
O sacred name of faithfulness profaned!
Faithful to whom? to thy rebellious crew?
Army of Fiends, fit body to fit head.
Was this your discipline and faith engaged,
Your military obedience, to dissolve
Allegiance to the acknowledged Power supreme?
And thou, sly hypocrite, who now wouldst seem
Patron of liberty, who more than thou
Once fawned, and cringed, and servily adored
Heaven's awful Monarch? wherefore, but in hope
To dispossess him, and thyself to reign?
But mark what I arreed thee now, Avant;
Fly neither whence thou fledst!  If from this hour
Within these hallowed limits thou appear,
Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained,
And seal thee so, as henceforth not to scorn
The facile gates of Hell too slightly barred.
So threatened he; but Satan to no threats
Gave heed, but waxing more in rage replied.
Then when I am thy captive talk of chains,
Proud limitary Cherub! but ere then
Far heavier load thyself expect to feel
From my prevailing arm, though Heaven's King
Ride on thy wings, and thou with thy compeers,
Us'd to the yoke, drawest his triumphant wheels
In progress through the road of Heaven star-paved.
While thus he spake, the angelick squadron bright
Turned fiery red, sharpening in mooned horns
Their phalanx, and began to hem him round
With ported spears, as thick as when a field
Of Ceres ripe for harvest waving bends
Her bearded grove of ears, which way the wind
Sways them; the careful plowman doubting stands,
Left on the threshing floor his hopeless sheaves
Prove chaff.  On the other side, Satan, alarmed,
Collecting all his might, dilated stood,
Like Teneriff or Atlas, unremoved:
His stature reached the sky, and on his crest
Sat Horrour plumed; nor wanted in his grasp
What seemed both spear and shield:  Now dreadful deeds
Might have ensued, nor only Paradise
In this commotion, but the starry cope
Of Heaven perhaps, or all the elements
At least had gone to wrack, disturbed and torn
With violence of this conflict, had not soon
The Eternal, to prevent such horrid fray,
Hung forth in Heaven his golden scales, yet seen
Betwixt Astrea and the Scorpion sign,
Wherein all things created first he weighed,
The pendulous round earth with balanced air
In counterpoise, now ponders all events,
Battles and realms:  In these he put two weights,
The sequel each of parting and of fight:
The latter quick up flew, and kicked the beam,
Which Gabriel spying, thus bespake the Fiend.
Satan, I know thy strength, and thou knowest mine;
Neither our own, but given:  What folly then
To boast what arms can do? since thine no more
Than Heaven permits, nor mine, though doubled now
To trample thee as mire:  For proof look up,
And read thy lot in yon celestial sign;
Where thou art weighed, and shown how light, how weak,
If thou resist.  The Fiend looked up, and knew
His mounted scale aloft:  Nor more;but fled
Murmuring, and with him fled the shades of night.
Now Morn, her rosy steps in the eastern clime
Advancing, sowed the earth with orient pearl,
When Adam waked, so customed; for his sleep
Was aery-light, from pure digestion bred,
And temperate vapours bland, which the only sound
Of leaves and fuming rills, Aurora's fan,
Lightly dispersed, and the shrill matin song
Of birds on every bough; so much the more
His wonder was to find unwakened Eve
With tresses discomposed, and glowing cheek,
As through unquiet rest:  He, on his side
Leaning half raised, with looks of cordial love
Hung over her enamoured, and beheld
Beauty, which, whether waking or asleep,
Shot forth peculiar graces; then with voice
Mild, as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes,
Her hand soft touching, whispered thus.  Awake,
My fairest, my espoused, my latest found,
Heaven's last best gift, my ever new delight!
Awake:  The morning shines, and the fresh field
Calls us; we lose the prime, to mark how spring
Our tender plants, how blows the citron grove,
What drops the myrrh, and what the balmy reed,
How nature paints her colours, how the bee
Sits on the bloom extracting liquid sweet.
Such whispering waked her, but with startled eye
On Adam, whom embracing, thus she spake.
O sole in whom my thoughts find all repose,
My glory, my perfection! glad I see
Thy face, and morn returned; for I this night
(Such night till this I never passed) have dreamed,
If dreamed, not, as I oft am wont, of thee,
Works of day past, or morrow's next design,
But of offence and trouble, which my mind
Knew never till this irksome night:  Methought,
Close at mine ear one called me forth to walk
With gentle voice;  I thought it thine: It said,
'Why sleepest thou, Eve? now is the pleasant time,
'The cool, the silent, save where silence yields
'To the night-warbling bird, that now awake
'Tunes sweetest his love-laboured song; now reigns
'Full-orbed the moon, and with more pleasing light
'Shadowy sets off the face of things; in vain,
'If none regard; Heaven wakes with all his eyes,
'Whom to behold but thee, Nature's desire?
'In whose sight all things joy, with ravishment
'Attracted by thy beauty still to gaze.'
I rose as at thy call, but found thee not;
To find thee I directed then my walk;
And on, methought, alone I passed through ways
That brought me on a sudden to the tree
Of interdicted knowledge: fair it seemed,
Much fairer to my fancy than by day:
And, as I wondering looked, beside it stood
One shaped and winged like one of those from Heaven
By us oft seen; his dewy locks distilled
Ambrosia; on that tree he also gazed;
And 'O fair plant,' said he, 'with fruit surcharged,
'Deigns none to ease thy load, and taste thy sweet,
'Nor God, nor Man?  Is knowledge so despised?
'Or envy, or what reserve forbids to taste?
'Forbid who will, none shall from me withhold
'Longer thy offered good; why else set here?
This said, he paused not, but with venturous arm
He plucked, he tasted; me damp horrour chilled
At such bold words vouched with a deed so bold:
But he thus, overjoyed; 'O fruit divine,
'Sweet of thyself, but much more sweet thus cropt,
'Forbidden here, it seems, as only fit
'For Gods, yet able to make Gods of Men:
'And why not Gods of Men; since good, the more
'Communicated, more abundant grows,
'The author not impaired, but honoured more?
'Here, happy creature, fair angelick Eve!
'Partake thou also; happy though thou art,
'Happier thou mayest be, worthier canst not be:
'Taste this, and be henceforth among the Gods
'Thyself a Goddess, not to earth confined,
'But sometimes in the air, as we, sometimes
'Ascend to Heaven, by merit thine, and see
'What life the Gods live there, and such live thou!'
So saying, he drew nigh, and to me held,
Even to my mouth of that same fruit held part
Which he had plucked; the pleasant savoury smell
So quickened appetite, that I, methought,
Could not but taste.  Forthwith up to the clouds
With him I flew, and underneath beheld
The earth outstretched immense, a prospect wide
And various:  Wondering at my flight and change
To this high exaltation; suddenly
My guide was gone, and I, methought, sunk down,
And fell asleep; but O, how glad I waked
To find this but a dream!  Thus Eve her night
Related, and thus Adam answered sad.
Best image of myself, and dearer half,
The trouble of thy thoughts this night in sleep
Affects me equally; nor can I like
This uncouth dream, of evil sprung, I fear;
Yet evil whence? in thee can harbour none,
Created pure.  But know that in the soul
Are many lesser faculties, that serve
Reason as chief; among these Fancy next
Her office holds; of all external things
Which the five watchful senses represent,
She forms imaginations, aery shapes,
Which Reason, joining or disjoining, frames
All what we affirm or what deny, and call
Our knowledge or opinion; then retires
Into her private cell, when nature rests.
Oft in her absence mimick Fancy wakes
To imitate her; but, misjoining shapes,
Wild work produces oft, and most in dreams;
Ill matching words and deeds long past or late.
Some such resemblances, methinks, I find
Of our last evening's talk, in this thy dream,
But with addition strange; yet be not sad.
Evil into the mind of God or Man
May come and go, so unreproved, and leave
No spot or blame behind:  Which gives me hope
That what in sleep thou didst abhor to dream,
Waking thou never will consent to do.
Be not disheartened then, nor cloud those looks,
That wont to be more cheerful and serene,
Than when fair morning first smiles on the world;
And let us to our fresh employments rise
Among the groves, the fountains, and the flowers
That open now their choisest bosomed smells,
Reserved from night, and kept for thee in store.
So cheered he his fair spouse, and she was cheered;
But silently a gentle tear let fall
From either eye, and wiped them with her hair;
Two other precious drops that ready stood,
Each in their crystal sluice, he ere they fell
Kissed, as the gracious signs of sweet remorse
And pious awe, that feared to have offended.
So all was cleared, and to the field they haste.
But first, from under shady arborous roof
Soon as they forth were come to open sight
Of day-spring, and the sun, who, scarce up-risen,
With wheels yet hovering o'er the ocean-brim,
Shot parallel to the earth his dewy ray,
Discovering in wide landskip all the east
Of Paradise and Eden's happy plains,
Lowly they bowed adoring, and began
Their orisons, each morning duly paid
In various style; for neither various style
Nor holy rapture wanted they to praise
Their Maker, in fit strains pronounced, or sung
Unmeditated; such prompt eloquence
Flowed from their lips, in prose or numerous verse,
More tuneable than needed lute or harp
To add more sweetness; and they thus began.
These are thy glorious works, Parent of good,
Almighty!  Thine this universal frame,
Thus wonderous fair;  Thyself how wonderous then!
Unspeakable, who sitst above these heavens
To us invisible, or dimly seen
In these thy lowest works; yet these declare
Thy goodness beyond thought, and power divine.
Speak, ye who best can tell, ye sons of light,
Angels; for ye behold him, and with songs
And choral symphonies, day without night,
Circle his throne rejoicing; ye in Heaven
On Earth join all ye Creatures to extol
Him first, him last, him midst, and without end.
Fairest of stars, last in the train of night,
If better thou belong not to the dawn,
Sure pledge of day, that crownest the smiling morn
With thy bright circlet, praise him in thy sphere,
While day arises, that sweet hour of prime.
Thou Sun, of this great world both eye and soul,
Acknowledge him thy greater; sound his praise
In thy eternal course, both when thou climbest,
And when high noon hast gained, and when thou fallest.
Moon, that now meetest the orient sun, now flyest,
With the fixed Stars, fixed in their orb that flies;
And ye five other wandering Fires, that move
In mystick dance not without song, resound
His praise, who out of darkness called up light.
Air, and ye Elements, the eldest birth
Of Nature's womb, that in quaternion run
Perpetual circle, multiform; and mix
And nourish all things; let your ceaseless change
Vary to our great Maker still new praise.
Ye Mists and Exhalations, that now rise
From hill or steaming lake, dusky or gray,
Till the sun paint your fleecy skirts with gold,
In honour to the world's great Author rise;
Whether to deck with clouds the uncoloured sky,
Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers,
Rising or falling still advance his praise.
His praise, ye Winds, that from four quarters blow,
Breathe soft or loud; and, wave your tops, ye Pines,
With every plant, in sign of worship wave.
Fountains, and ye that warble, as ye flow,
Melodious murmurs, warbling tune his praise.
Join voices, all ye living Souls:  Ye Birds,
That singing up to Heaven-gate ascend,
Bear on your wings and in your notes his praise.
Ye that in waters glide, and ye that walk
The earth, and stately tread, or lowly creep;
Witness if I be silent, morn or even,
To hill, or valley, fountain, or fresh shade,
Made vocal by my song, and taught his praise.
Hail, universal Lord, be bounteous still
To give us only good; and if the night
Have gathered aught of evil, or concealed,
Disperse it, as now light dispels the dark!
So prayed they innocent, and to their thoughts
Firm peace recovered soon, and wonted calm.
On to their morning's rural work they haste,
Among sweet dews and flowers; where any row
Of fruit-trees over-woody reached too far
Their pampered boughs, and needed hands to check
Fruitless embraces: or they led the vine
To wed her elm; she, spoused, about him twines
Her marriageable arms, and with him brings
Her dower, the adopted clusters, to adorn
His barren leaves.  Them thus employed beheld
With pity Heaven's high King, and to him called
Raphael, the sociable Spirit, that deigned
To travel with Tobias, and secured
His marriage with the seventimes-wedded maid.
Raphael, said he, thou hearest what stir on Earth
Satan, from Hell 'scaped through the darksome gulf,
Hath raised in Paradise; and how disturbed
This night the human pair; how he designs
In them at once to ruin all mankind.
Go therefore, half this day as friend with friend
Converse with Adam, in what bower or shade
Thou findest him from the heat of noon retired,
To respite his day-labour with repast,
Or with repose; and such discourse bring on,
As may advise him of his happy state,
Happiness in his power left free to will,
Left to his own free will, his will though free,
Yet mutable; whence warn him to beware
He swerve not, too secure:  Tell him withal
His danger, and from whom; what enemy,
Late fallen himself from Heaven, is plotting now
The fall of others from like state of bliss;
By violence? no, for that shall be withstood;
But by deceit and lies:  This let him know,
Lest, wilfully transgressing, he pretend
Surprisal, unadmonished, unforewarned.
So spake the Eternal Father, and fulfilled
All justice:  Nor delayed the winged Saint
After his charge received; but from among
Thousand celestial Ardours, where he stood
Veiled with his gorgeous wings, up springing light,
Flew through the midst of Heaven; the angelick quires,
On each hand parting, to his speed gave way
Through all the empyreal road; till, at the gate
Of Heaven arrived, the gate self-opened wide
On golden hinges turning, as by work
Divine the sovran Architect had framed.
From hence no cloud, or, to obstruct his sight,
Star interposed, however small he sees,
Not unconformed to other shining globes,
Earth, and the garden of God, with cedars crowned
Above all hills.  As when by night the glass
Of Galileo, less assured, observes
Imagined lands and regions in the moon:
Or pilot, from amidst the Cyclades
Delos or Samos first appearing, kens
A cloudy spot.  Down thither prone in flight
He speeds, and through the vast ethereal sky
Sails between worlds and worlds, with steady wing
Now on the polar winds, then with quick fan
Winnows the buxom air; till, within soar
Of towering eagles, to all the fowls he seems
A phoenix, gazed by all as that sole bird,
When, to enshrine his reliques in the Sun's
Bright temple, to Egyptian Thebes he flies.
At once on the eastern cliff of Paradise
He lights, and to his proper shape returns
A Seraph winged:  Six wings he wore, to shade
His lineaments divine; the pair that clad
Each shoulder broad, came mantling o'er his breast
With regal ornament; the middle pair
Girt like a starry zone his waist, and round
Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold
And colours dipt in Heaven; the third his feet
Shadowed from either heel with feathered mail,
Sky-tinctured grain.  Like Maia's son he stood,
And shook his plumes, that heavenly fragrance filled
The circuit wide.  Straight knew him all the bands
Of Angels under watch; and to his state,
And to his message high, in honour rise;
For on some message high they guessed him bound.
Their glittering tents he passed, and now is come
Into the blissful field, through groves of myrrh,
And flowering odours, cassia, nard, and balm;
A wilderness of sweets; for Nature here
Wantoned as in her prime, and played at will
Her virgin fancies pouring forth more sweet,
Wild above rule or art, enormous bliss.
Him through the spicy forest onward come
Adam discerned, as in the door he sat
Of his cool bower, while now the mounted sun
Shot down direct his fervid rays to warm
Earth's inmost womb, more warmth than Adam needs:
And Eve within, due at her hour prepared
For dinner savoury fruits, of taste to please
True appetite, and not disrelish thirst
Of nectarous draughts between, from milky stream,
Berry or grape:  To whom thus Adam called.
Haste hither, Eve, and worth thy sight behold
Eastward among those trees, what glorious shape
Comes this way moving; seems another morn
Risen on mid-noon; some great behest from Heaven
To us perhaps he brings, and will vouchsafe
This day to be our guest.  But go with speed,
And, what thy stores contain, bring forth, and pour
Abundance, fit to honour and receive
Our heavenly stranger:  Well we may afford
Our givers their own gifts, and large bestow
From large bestowed, where Nature multiplies
Her fertile growth, and by disburthening grows
More fruitful, which instructs us not to spare.
To whom thus Eve.  Adam, earth's hallowed mould,
Of God inspired! small store will serve, where store,
All seasons, ripe for use hangs on the stalk;
Save what by frugal storing firmness gains
To nourish, and superfluous moist consumes:
But I will haste, and from each bough and brake,
Each plant and juciest gourd, will pluck such choice
To entertain our Angel-guest, as he
Beholding shall confess, that here on Earth
God hath dispensed his bounties as in Heaven.
So saying, with dispatchful looks in haste
She turns, on hospitable thoughts intent
What choice to choose for delicacy best,
What order, so contrived as not to mix
Tastes, not well joined, inelegant, but bring
Taste after taste upheld with kindliest change;
Bestirs her then, and from each tender stalk
Whatever Earth, all-bearing mother, yields
In India East or West, or middle shore
In Pontus or the Punick coast, or where
Alcinous reigned, fruit of all kinds, in coat
Rough, or smooth rind, or bearded husk, or shell,
She gathers, tribute large, and on the board
Heaps with unsparing hand; for drink the grape
She crushes, inoffensive must, and meaths
From many a berry, and from sweet kernels pressed
She tempers dulcet creams; nor these to hold
Wants her fit vessels pure; then strows the ground
With rose and odours from the shrub unfumed.
Mean while our primitive great sire, to meet
His God-like guest, walks forth, without more train
Accompanied than with his own complete
Perfections; in himself was all his state,
More solemn than the tedious pomp that waits
On princes, when their rich retinue long
Of horses led, and grooms besmeared with gold,
Dazzles the croud, and sets them all agape.
Nearer his presence Adam, though not awed,
Yet with submiss approach and reverence meek,
As to a superiour nature bowing low,
Thus said.  Native of Heaven, for other place
None can than Heaven such glorious shape contain;
Since, by descending from the thrones above,
Those happy places thou hast deigned a while
To want, and honour these, vouchsafe with us
Two only, who yet by sovran gift possess
This spacious ground, in yonder shady bower
To rest; and what the garden choicest bears
To sit and taste, till this meridian heat
Be over, and the sun more cool decline.
Whom thus the angelick Virtue answered mild.
Adam, I therefore came; nor art thou such
Created, or such place hast here to dwell,
As may not oft invite, though Spirits of Heaven,
To visit thee; lead on then where thy bower
O'ershades; for these mid-hours, till evening rise,
I have at will.  So to the sylvan lodge
They came, that like Pomona's arbour smiled,
With flowerets decked, and fragrant smells; but Eve,
Undecked save with herself, more lovely fair
Than Wood-Nymph, or the fairest Goddess feigned
Of three that in mount Ida naked strove,
Stood to entertain her guest from Heaven; no veil
She needed, virtue-proof; no thought infirm
Altered her cheek.  On whom the Angel Hail
Bestowed, the holy salutation used
Long after to blest Mary, second Eve.
Hail, Mother of Mankind, whose fruitful womb
Shall fill the world more numerous with thy sons,
Than with these various fruits the trees of God
Have heaped this table!--Raised of grassy turf
Their table was, and mossy seats had round,
And on her ample square from side to side
All autumn piled, though spring and autumn here
Danced hand in hand.  A while discourse they hold;
No fear lest dinner cool; when thus began
Our author.  Heavenly stranger, please to taste
These bounties, which our Nourisher, from whom
All perfect good, unmeasured out, descends,
To us for food and for delight hath caused
The earth to yield; unsavoury food perhaps
To spiritual natures; only this I know,
That one celestial Father gives to all.
To whom the Angel.  Therefore what he gives
(Whose praise be ever sung) to Man in part
Spiritual, may of purest Spirits be found
No ingrateful food:  And food alike those pure
Intelligential substances require,
As doth your rational; and both contain
Within them every lower faculty
Of sense, whereby they hear, see, smell, touch, taste,
Tasting concoct, digest, assimilate,
And corporeal to incorporeal turn.
For know, whatever was created, needs
To be sustained and fed:  Of elements
The grosser feeds the purer, earth the sea,
Earth and the sea feed air, the air those fires
Ethereal, and as lowest first the moon;
Whence in her visage round those spots, unpurged
Vapours not yet into her substance turned.
Nor doth the moon no nourishment exhale
From her moist continent to higher orbs.
The sun that light imparts to all, receives
From all his alimental recompence
In humid exhalations, and at even
Sups with the ocean.  Though in Heaven the trees
Of life ambrosial fruitage bear, and vines
Yield nectar; though from off the boughs each morn
We brush mellifluous dews, and find the ground
Covered with pearly grain:  Yet God hath here
Varied his bounty so with new delights,
As may compare with Heaven; and to taste
Think not I shall be nice.  So down they sat,
And to their viands fell; nor seemingly
The Angel, nor in mist, the common gloss
Of Theologians; but with keen dispatch
Of real hunger, and concoctive heat
To transubstantiate:  What redounds, transpires
Through Spirits with ease; nor wonder;if by fire
Of sooty coal the empirick alchemist
Can turn, or holds it possible to turn,
Metals of drossiest ore to perfect gold,
As from the mine.  Mean while at table Eve
Ministered naked, and their flowing cups
With pleasant liquours crowned:  O innocence
Deserving Paradise! if ever, then,
Then had the sons of God excuse to have been
Enamoured at that sight; but in those hearts
Love unlibidinous reigned, nor jealousy
Was understood, the injured lover's hell.
Thus when with meats and drinks they had sufficed,
Not burdened nature, sudden mind arose
In Adam, not to let the occasion pass
Given him by this great conference to know
Of things above his world, and of their being
Who dwell in Heaven, whose excellence he saw
Transcend his own so far; whose radiant forms,
Divine effulgence, whose high power, so far
Exceeded human; and his wary speech
Thus to the empyreal minister he framed.
Inhabitant with God, now know I well
Thy favour, in this honour done to Man;
Under whose lowly roof thou hast vouchsafed
To enter, and these earthly fruits to taste,
Food not of Angels, yet accepted so,
As that more willingly thou couldst not seem
At Heaven's high feasts to have fed: yet what compare
To whom the winged Hierarch replied.
O Adam, One Almighty is, from whom
All things proceed, and up to him return,
If not depraved from good, created all
Such to perfection, one first matter all,
Endued with various forms, various degrees
Of substance, and, in things that live, of life;
But more refined, more spiritous, and pure,
As nearer to him placed, or nearer tending
Each in their several active spheres assigned,
Till body up to spirit work, in bounds
Proportioned to each kind.  So from the root
Springs lighter the green stalk, from thence the leaves
More aery, last the bright consummate flower
Spirits odorous breathes: flowers and their fruit,
Man's nourishment, by gradual scale sublimed,
To vital spirits aspire, to animal,
To intellectual; give both life and sense,
Fancy and understanding; whence the soul
Reason receives, and reason is her being,
Discursive, or intuitive; discourse
Is oftest yours, the latter most is ours,
Differing but in degree, of kind the same.
Wonder not then, what God for you saw good
If I refuse not, but convert, as you
To proper substance.  Time may come, when Men
With Angels may participate, and find
No inconvenient diet, nor too light fare;
And from these corporal nutriments perhaps
Your bodies may at last turn all to spirit,
Improved by tract of time, and, winged, ascend
Ethereal, as we; or may, at choice,
Here or in heavenly Paradises dwell;
If ye be found obedient, and retain
Unalterably firm his love entire,
Whose progeny you are.  Mean while enjoy
Your fill what happiness this happy state
Can comprehend, incapable of more.
To whom the patriarch of mankind replied.
O favourable Spirit, propitious guest,
Well hast thou taught the way that might direct
Our knowledge, and the scale of nature set
From center to circumference; whereon,
In contemplation of created things,
By steps we may ascend to God.  But say,
What meant that caution joined, If ye be found
Obedient?  Can we want obedience then
To him, or possibly his love desert,
Who formed us from the dust and placed us here
Full to the utmost measure of what bliss
Human desires can seek or apprehend?
To whom the Angel.  Son of Heaven and Earth,
Attend!  That thou art happy, owe to God;
That thou continuest such, owe to thyself,
That is, to thy obedience; therein stand.
This was that caution given thee; be advised.
God made thee perfect, not immutable;
And good he made thee, but to persevere
He left it in thy power; ordained thy will
By nature free, not over-ruled by fate
Inextricable, or strict necessity:
Our voluntary service he requires,
Not our necessitated; such with him
Finds no acceptance, nor can find; for how
Can hearts, not free, be tried whether they serve
Willing or no, who will but what they must
By destiny, and can no other choose?
Myself, and all the angelick host, that stand
In sight of God, enthroned, our happy state
Hold, as you yours, while our obedience holds;
On other surety none:  Freely we serve,
Because we freely love, as in our will
To love or not; in this we stand or fall:
And some are fallen, to disobedience fallen,
And so from Heaven to deepest Hell; O fall
From what high state of bliss, into what woe!
To whom our great progenitor.  Thy words
Attentive, and with more delighted ear,
Divine instructer, I have heard, than when
Cherubick songs by night from neighbouring hills
Aereal musick send:  Nor knew I not
To be both will and deed created free;
Yet that we never shall forget to love
Our Maker, and obey him whose command
Single is yet so just, my constant thoughts
Assured me, and still assure:  Though what thou tellest
Hath passed in Heaven, some doubt within me move,
But more desire to hear, if thou consent,
The full relation, which must needs be strange,
Worthy of sacred silence to be heard;
And we have yet large day, for scarce the sun
Hath finished half his journey, and scarce begins
His other half in the great zone of Heaven.
Thus Adam made request; and Raphael,
After short pause assenting, thus began.
High matter thou enjoinest me, O prime of men,
Sad task and hard:  For how shall I relate
To human sense the invisible exploits
Of warring Spirits? how, without remorse,
The ruin of so many glorious once
And perfect while they stood? how last unfold
The secrets of another world, perhaps
Not lawful to reveal? yet for thy good
This is dispensed; and what surmounts the reach
Of human sense, I shall delineate so,
By likening spiritual to corporal forms,
As may express them best; though what if Earth
Be but a shadow of Heaven, and things therein
Each to other like, more than on earth is thought?
As yet this world was not, and Chaos wild
Reigned where these Heavens now roll, where Earth now rests
Upon her center poised; when on a day
(For time, though in eternity, applied
To motion, measures all things durable
By present, past, and future,) on such day
As Heaven's great year brings forth, the empyreal host
Of Angels by imperial summons called,
Innumerable before the Almighty's throne
Forthwith, from all the ends of Heaven, appeared
Under their Hierarchs in orders bright:
Ten thousand thousand ensigns high advanced,
Standards and gonfalons 'twixt van and rear
Stream in the air, and for distinction serve
Of hierarchies, of orders, and degrees;
Or in their glittering tissues bear imblazed
Holy memorials, acts of zeal and love
Recorded eminent.  Thus when in orbs
Of circuit inexpressible they stood,
Orb within orb, the Father Infinite,
By whom in bliss imbosomed sat the Son,
Amidst as from a flaming mount, whose top
Brightness had made invisible, thus spake.
Hear, all ye Angels, progeny of light,
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers;
Hear my decree, which unrevoked shall stand.
This day I have begot whom I declare
My only Son, and on this holy hill
Him have anointed, whom ye now behold
At my right hand; your head I him appoint;
And by myself have sworn, to him shall bow
All knees in Heaven, and shall confess him Lord:
Under his great vice-gerent reign abide
United, as one individual soul,
For ever happy:  Him who disobeys,
Me disobeys, breaks union, and that day,
Cast out from God and blessed vision, falls
Into utter darkness, deep ingulfed, his place
Ordained without redemption, without end.
So spake the Omnipotent, and with his words
All seemed well pleased; all seemed, but were not all.
That day, as other solemn days, they spent
In song and dance about the sacred hill;
Mystical dance, which yonder starry sphere
Of planets, and of fixed, in all her wheels
Resembles nearest, mazes intricate,
Eccentrick, intervolved, yet regular
Then most, when most irregular they seem;
And in their motions harmony divine
So smooths her charming tones, that God's own ear
Listens delighted.  Evening now approached,
(For we have also our evening and our morn,
We ours for change delectable, not need;)
Forthwith from dance to sweet repast they turn
Desirous; all in circles as they stood,
Tables are set, and on a sudden piled
With Angels food, and rubied nectar flows
In pearl, in diamond, and massy gold,
Fruit of delicious vines, the growth of Heaven.
On flowers reposed, and with fresh flowerets crowned,
They eat, they drink, and in communion sweet
Quaff immortality and joy, secure
Of surfeit, where full measure only bounds
Excess, before the all-bounteous King, who showered
With copious hand, rejoicing in their joy.
Now when ambrosial night with clouds exhaled
From that high mount of God, whence light and shade
Spring both, the face of brightest Heaven had changed
To grateful twilight, (for night comes not there
In darker veil,) and roseat dews disposed
All but the unsleeping eyes of God to rest;
Wide over all the plain, and wider far
Than all this globous earth in plain outspread,
(Such are the courts of God) the angelick throng,
Dispersed in bands and files, their camp extend
By living streams among the trees of life,
Pavilions numberless, and sudden reared,
Celestial tabernacles, where they slept
Fanned with cool winds; save those, who, in their course,
Melodious hymns about the sovran throne
Alternate all night long: but not so waked
Satan; so call him now, his former name
Is heard no more in Heaven; he of the first,
If not the first Arch-Angel, great in power,
In favour and pre-eminence, yet fraught
With envy against the Son of God, that day
Honoured by his great Father, and proclaimed
Messiah King anointed, could not bear
Through pride that sight, and thought himself impaired.
Deep malice thence conceiving and disdain,
Soon as midnight brought on the dusky hour
Friendliest to sleep and silence, he resolved
With all his legions to dislodge, and leave
Unworshipt, unobeyed, the throne supreme,
Contemptuous; and his next subordinate
Awakening, thus to him in secret spake.
Sleepest thou, Companion dear?  What sleep can close
Thy eye-lids? and rememberest what decree
Of yesterday, so late hath passed the lips
Of Heaven's Almighty.  Thou to me thy thoughts
Wast wont, I mine to thee was wont to impart;
Both waking we were one; how then can now
Thy sleep dissent?  New laws thou seest imposed;
New laws from him who reigns, new minds may raise
In us who serve, new counsels to debate
What doubtful may ensue:  More in this place
To utter is not safe.  Assemble thou
Of all those myriads which we lead the chief;
Tell them, that by command, ere yet dim night
Her shadowy cloud withdraws, I am to haste,
And all who under me their banners wave,
Homeward, with flying march, where we possess
The quarters of the north; there to prepare
Fit entertainment to receive our King,
The great Messiah, and his new commands,
Who speedily through all the hierarchies
Intends to pass triumphant, and give laws.
So spake the false Arch-Angel, and infused
Bad influence into the unwary breast
Of his associate:  He together calls,
Or several one by one, the regent Powers,
Under him Regent; tells, as he was taught,
That the Most High commanding, now ere night,
Now ere dim night had disincumbered Heaven,
The great hierarchal standard was to move;
Tells the suggested cause, and casts between
Ambiguous words and jealousies, to sound
Or taint integrity:  But all obeyed
The wonted signal, and superiour voice
Of their great Potentate; for great indeed
His name, and high was his degree in Heaven;
His countenance, as the morning-star that guides
The starry flock, allured them, and with lies
Drew after him the third part of Heaven's host.
Mean while the Eternal eye, whose sight discerns
Abstrusest thoughts, from forth his holy mount,
And from within the golden lamps that burn
Nightly before him, saw without their light
Rebellion rising; saw in whom, how spread
Among the sons of morn, what multitudes
Were banded to oppose his high decree;
And, smiling, to his only Son thus said.
Son, thou in whom my glory I behold
In full resplendence, Heir of all my might,
Nearly it now concerns us to be sure
Of our Omnipotence, and with what arms
We mean to hold what anciently we claim
Of deity or empire:  Such a foe
Is rising, who intends to erect his throne
Equal to ours, throughout the spacious north;
Nor so content, hath in his thought to try
In battle, what our power is, or our right.
Let us advise, and to this hazard draw
With speed what force is left, and all employ
In our defence; lest unawares we lose
This our high place, our sanctuary, our hill.
To whom the Son with calm aspect and clear,
Lightning divine, ineffable, serene,
Made answer.  Mighty Father, thou thy foes
Justly hast in derision, and, secure,
Laughest at their vain designs and tumults vain,
Matter to me of glory, whom their hate
Illustrates, when they see all regal power
Given me to quell their pride, and in event
Know whether I be dextrous to subdue
Thy rebels, or be found the worst in Heaven.
So spake the Son; but Satan, with his Powers,
Far was advanced on winged speed; an host
Innumerable as the stars of night,
Or stars of morning, dew-drops, which the sun
Impearls on every leaf and every flower.
Regions they passed, the mighty regencies
Of Seraphim, and Potentates, and Thrones,
In their triple degrees; regions to which
All thy dominion, Adam, is no more
Than what this garden is to all the earth,
And all the sea, from one entire globose
Stretched into longitude; which having passed,
At length into the limits of the north
They came; and Satan to his royal seat
High on a hill, far blazing, as a mount
Raised on a mount, with pyramids and towers
From diamond quarries hewn, and rocks of gold;
The palace of great Lucifer, (so call
That structure in the dialect of men
Interpreted,) which not long after, he
Affecting all equality with God,
In imitation of that mount whereon
Messiah was declared in sight of Heaven,
The Mountain of the Congregation called;
For thither he assembled all his train,
Pretending so commanded to consult
About the great reception of their King,
Thither to come, and with calumnious art
Of counterfeited truth thus held their ears.
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers;
If these magnifick titles yet remain
Not merely titular, since by decree
Another now hath to himself engrossed
All power, and us eclipsed under the name
Of King anointed, for whom all this haste
Of midnight-march, and hurried meeting here,
This only to consult how we may best,
With what may be devised of honours new,
Receive him coming to receive from us
Knee-tribute yet unpaid, prostration vile!
Too much to one! but double how endured,
To one, and to his image now proclaimed?
But what if better counsels might erect
Our minds, and teach us to cast off this yoke?
Will ye submit your necks, and choose to bend
The supple knee?  Ye will not, if I trust
To know ye right, or if ye know yourselves
Natives and sons of Heaven possessed before
By none; and if not equal all, yet free,
Equally free; for orders and degrees
Jar not with liberty, but well consist.
Who can in reason then, or right, assume
Monarchy over such as live by right
His equals, if in power and splendour less,
In freedom equal? or can introduce
Law and edict on us, who without law
Err not? much less for this to be our Lord,
And look for adoration, to the abuse
Of those imperial titles, which assert
Our being ordained to govern, not to serve.
Thus far his bold discourse without controul
Had audience; when among the Seraphim
Abdiel, than whom none with more zeal adored
The Deity, and divine commands obeyed,
Stood up, and in a flame of zeal severe
The current of his fury thus opposed.
O argument blasphemous, false, and proud!
Words which no ear ever to hear in Heaven
Expected, least of all from thee,  Ingrate,
In place thyself so high above thy peers.
Canst thou with impious obloquy condemn
The just decree of God, pronounced and sworn,
That to his only Son, by right endued
With regal scepter, every soul in Heaven
Shall bend the knee, and in that honour due
Confess him rightful King? unjust, thou sayest,
Flatly unjust, to bind with laws the free,
And equal over equals to let reign,
One over all with unsucceeded power.
Shalt thou give law to God? shalt thou dispute
With him the points of liberty, who made
Thee what thou art, and formed the Powers of Heaven
Such as he pleased, and circumscribed their being?
Yet, by experience taught, we know how good,
And of our good and of our dignity
How provident he is; how far from thought
To make us less, bent rather to exalt
Our happy state, under one head more near
United.  But to grant it thee unjust,
That equal over equals monarch reign:
Thyself, though great and glorious, dost thou count,
Or all angelick nature joined in one,
Equal to him begotten Son? by whom,
As by his Word, the Mighty Father made
All things, even thee; and all the Spirits of Heaven
By him created in their bright degrees,
Crowned them with glory, and to their glory named
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers,
Essential Powers; nor by his reign obscured,
But more illustrious made; since he the head
One of our number thus reduced becomes;
His laws our laws; all honour to him done
Returns our own.  Cease then this impious rage,
And tempt not these; but hasten to appease
The incensed Father, and the incensed Son,
While pardon may be found in time besought.
So spake the fervent Angel; but his zeal
None seconded, as out of season judged,
Or singular and rash:  Whereat rejoiced
The Apostate, and, more haughty, thus replied.
That we were formed then sayest thou? and the work
Of secondary hands, by task transferred
From Father to his Son? strange point and new!
Doctrine which we would know whence learned: who saw
When this creation was? rememberest thou
Thy making, while the Maker gave thee being?
We know no time when we were not as now;
Know none before us, self-begot, self-raised
By our own quickening power, when fatal course
Had circled his full orb, the birth mature
Of this our native Heaven, ethereal sons.
Our puissance is our own; our own right hand
Shall teach us highest deeds, by proof to try
Who is our equal:  Then thou shalt behold
Whether by supplication we intend
Address, and to begirt the almighty throne
Beseeching or besieging.  This report,
These tidings carry to the anointed King;
And fly, ere evil intercept thy flight.
He said; and, as the sound of waters deep,
Hoarse murmur echoed to his words applause
Through the infinite host; nor less for that
The flaming Seraph fearless, though alone
Encompassed round with foes, thus answered bold.
O alienate from God, O Spirit accursed,
Forsaken of all good!  I see thy fall
Determined, and thy hapless crew involved
In this perfidious fraud, contagion spread
Both of thy crime and punishment:  Henceforth
No more be troubled how to quit the yoke
Of God's Messiah; those indulgent laws
Will not be now vouchsafed; other decrees
Against thee are gone forth without recall;
That golden scepter, which thou didst reject,
Is now an iron rod to bruise and break
Thy disobedience.  Well thou didst advise;
Yet not for thy advice or threats I fly
These wicked tents devoted, lest the wrath
Impendent, raging into sudden flame,
Distinguish not:  For soon expect to feel
His thunder on thy head, devouring fire.
Then who created thee lamenting learn,
When who can uncreate thee thou shalt know.
So spake the Seraph Abdiel, faithful found
Among the faithless, faithful only he;
Among innumerable false, unmoved,
Unshaken, unseduced, unterrified,
His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal;
Nor number, nor example, with him wrought
To swerve from truth, or change his constant mind,
Though single.  From amidst them forth he passed,
Long way through hostile scorn, which he sustained
Superiour, nor of violence feared aught;
And, with retorted scorn, his back he turned
On those proud towers to swift destruction doomed.
All night the dreadless Angel, unpursued,
Through Heaven's wide champain held his way; till Morn,
Waked by the circling Hours, with rosy hand
Unbarred the gates of light.  There is a cave
Within the mount of God, fast by his throne,
Where light and darkness in perpetual round
Lodge and dislodge by turns, which makes through Heaven
Grateful vicissitude, like day and night;
Light issues forth, and at the other door
Obsequious darkness enters, till her hour
To veil the Heaven, though darkness there might well
Seem twilight here:  And now went forth the Morn
Such as in highest Heaven arrayed in gold
Empyreal; from before her vanished Night,
Shot through with orient beams; when all the plain
Covered with thick embattled squadrons bright,
Chariots, and flaming arms, and fiery steeds,
Reflecting blaze on blaze, first met his view:
War he perceived, war in procinct; and found
Already known what he for news had thought
To have reported:  Gladly then he mixed
Among those friendly Powers, who him received
With joy and acclamations loud, that one,
That of so many myriads fallen, yet one
Returned not lost.  On to the sacred hill
They led him high applauded, and present
Before the seat supreme; from whence a voice,
From midst a golden cloud, thus mild was heard.
Servant of God. Well done; well hast thou fought
The better fight, who single hast maintained
Against revolted multitudes the cause
Of truth, in word mightier than they in arms;
And for the testimony of truth hast borne
Universal reproach, far worse to bear
Than violence; for this was all thy care
To stand approved in sight of God, though worlds
Judged thee perverse:  The easier conquest now
Remains thee, aided by this host of friends,
Back on thy foes more glorious to return,
Than scorned thou didst depart; and to subdue
By force, who reason for their law refuse,
Right reason for their law, and for their King
Messiah, who by right of merit reigns.
Go, Michael, of celestial armies prince,
And thou, in military prowess next,
Gabriel, lead forth to battle these my sons
Invincible; lead forth my armed Saints,
By thousands and by millions, ranged for fight,
Equal in number to that Godless crew
Rebellious:  Them with fire and hostile arms
Fearless assault; and, to the brow of Heaven
Pursuing, drive them out from God and bliss,
Into their place of punishment, the gulf
Of Tartarus, which ready opens wide
His fiery Chaos to receive their fall.
So spake the Sovran Voice, and clouds began
To darken all the hill, and smoke to roll
In dusky wreaths, reluctant flames, the sign
Of wrath awaked; nor with less dread the loud
Ethereal trumpet from on high 'gan blow:
At which command the Powers militant,
That stood for Heaven, in mighty quadrate joined
Of union irresistible, moved on
In silence their bright legions, to the sound
Of instrumental harmony, that breathed
Heroick ardour to adventurous deeds
Under their God-like leaders, in the cause
Of God and his Messiah.  On they move
Indissolubly firm; nor obvious hill,
Nor straitening vale, nor wood, nor stream, divides
Their perfect ranks; for high above the ground
Their march was, and the passive air upbore
Their nimble tread; as when the total kind
Of birds, in orderly array on wing,
Came summoned over Eden to receive
Their names of thee; so over many a tract
Of Heaven they marched, and many a province wide,
Tenfold the length of this terrene:  At last,
Far in the horizon to the north appeared
From skirt to skirt a fiery region, stretched
In battailous aspect, and nearer view
Bristled with upright beams innumerable
Of rigid spears, and helmets thronged, and shields
Various, with boastful argument portrayed,
The banded Powers of Satan hasting on
With furious expedition; for they weened
That self-same day, by fight or by surprise,
To win the mount of God, and on his throne
To set the Envier of his state, the proud
Aspirer; but their thoughts proved fond and vain
In the mid way:  Though strange to us it seemed
At first, that Angel should with Angel war,
And in fierce hosting meet, who wont to meet
So oft in festivals of joy and love
Unanimous, as sons of one great Sire,
Hymning the Eternal Father:  But the shout
Of battle now began, and rushing sound
Of onset ended soon each milder thought.
High in the midst, exalted as a God,
The Apostate in his sun-bright chariot sat,
Idol of majesty divine, enclosed
With flaming Cherubim, and golden shields;
Then lighted from his gorgeous throne, for now
"twixt host and host but narrow space was left,
A dreadful interval, and front to front
Presented stood in terrible array
Of hideous length:  Before the cloudy van,
On the rough edge of battle ere it joined,
Satan, with vast and haughty strides advanced,
Came towering, armed in adamant and gold;
Abdiel that sight endured not, where he stood
Among the mightiest, bent on highest deeds,
And thus his own undaunted heart explores.
O Heaven! that such resemblance of the Highest
Should yet remain, where faith and realty
Remain not:  Wherefore should not strength and might
There fail where virtue fails, or weakest prove
Where boldest, though to fight unconquerable?
His puissance, trusting in the Almighty's aid,
I mean to try, whose reason I have tried
Unsound and false; nor is it aught but just,
That he, who in debate of truth hath won,
Should win in arms, in both disputes alike
Victor; though brutish that contest and foul,
When reason hath to deal with force, yet so
Most reason is that reason overcome.
So pondering, and from his armed peers
Forth stepping opposite, half-way he met
His daring foe, at this prevention more
Incensed, and thus securely him defied.
Proud, art thou met? thy hope was to have reached
The highth of thy aspiring unopposed,
The throne of God unguarded, and his side
Abandoned, at the terrour of thy power
Or potent tongue:  Fool!not to think how vain
Against the Omnipotent to rise in arms;
Who out of smallest things could, without end,
Have raised incessant armies to defeat
Thy folly; or with solitary hand
Reaching beyond all limit, at one blow,
Unaided, could have finished thee, and whelmed
Thy legions under darkness:  But thou seest
All are not of thy train; there be, who faith
Prefer, and piety to God, though then
To thee not visible, when I alone
Seemed in thy world erroneous to dissent
From all:  My sect thou seest;now learn too late
How few sometimes may know, when thousands err.
Whom the grand foe, with scornful eye askance,
Thus answered.  Ill for thee, but in wished hour
Of my revenge, first sought for, thou returnest
From flight, seditious Angel! to receive
Thy merited reward, the first assay
Of this right hand provoked, since first that tongue,
Inspired with contradiction, durst oppose
A third part of the Gods, in synod met
Their deities to assert; who, while they feel
Vigour divine within them, can allow
Omnipotence to none.  But well thou comest
Before thy fellows, ambitious to win
From me some plume, that thy success may show
Destruction to the rest:  This pause between,
(Unanswered lest thou boast) to let thee know,
At first I thought that Liberty and Heaven
To heavenly souls had been all one; but now
I see that most through sloth had rather serve,
Ministring Spirits, trained up in feast and song!
Such hast thou armed, the minstrelsy of Heaven,
Servility with freedom to contend,
As both their deeds compared this day shall prove.
To whom in brief thus Abdiel stern replied.
Apostate! still thou errest, nor end wilt find
Of erring, from the path of truth remote:
Unjustly thou depravest it with the name
Of servitude, to serve whom God ordains,
Or Nature:  God and Nature bid the same,
When he who rules is worthiest, and excels
Them whom he governs.  This is servitude,
To serve the unwise, or him who hath rebelled
Against his worthier, as thine now serve thee,
Thyself not free, but to thyself enthralled;
Yet lewdly darest our ministring upbraid.
Reign thou in Hell, thy kingdom; let me serve
In Heaven God ever blest, and his divine
Behests obey, worthiest to be obeyed;
Yet chains in Hell, not realms, expect:  Mean while
From me returned, as erst thou saidst, from flight,
This greeting on thy impious crest receive.
So saying, a noble stroke he lifted high,
Which hung not, but so swift with tempest fell
On the proud crest of Satan, that no sight,
Nor motion of swift thought, less could his shield,
Such ruin intercept:  Ten paces huge
He back recoiled; the tenth on bended knee
His massy spear upstaid; as if on earth
Winds under ground, or waters forcing way,
Sidelong had pushed a mountain from his seat,
Half sunk with all his pines.  Amazement seised
The rebel Thrones, but greater rage, to see
Thus foiled their mightiest; ours joy filled, and shout,
Presage of victory, and fierce desire
Of battle:  Whereat Michael bid sound
The Arch-Angel trumpet; through the vast of Heaven
It sounded, and the faithful armies rung
Hosanna to the Highest:  Nor stood at gaze
The adverse legions, nor less hideous joined
The horrid shock.  Now storming fury rose,
And clamour such as heard in Heaven till now
Was never; arms on armour clashing brayed
Horrible discord, and the madding wheels
Of brazen chariots raged; dire was the noise
Of conflict; over head the dismal hiss
Of fiery darts in flaming vollies flew,
And flying vaulted either host with fire.
So under fiery cope together rushed
Both battles main, with ruinous assault
And inextinguishable rage.  All Heaven
Resounded; and had Earth been then, all Earth
Had to her center shook.  What wonder? when
Millions of fierce encountering Angels fought
On either side, the least of whom could wield
These elements, and arm him with the force
Of all their regions:  How much more of power
Army against army numberless to raise
Dreadful combustion warring, and disturb,
Though not destroy, their happy native seat;
Had not the Eternal King Omnipotent,
From his strong hold of Heaven, high over-ruled
And limited their might; though numbered such
As each divided legion might have seemed
A numerous host; in strength each armed hand
A legion; led in fight, yet leader seemed
Each warriour single as in chief, expert
When to advance, or stand, or turn the sway
Of battle, open when, and when to close
The ridges of grim war:  No thought of flight,
None of retreat, no unbecoming deed
That argued fear; each on himself relied,
As only in his arm the moment lay
Of victory:  Deeds of eternal fame
Were done, but infinite; for wide was spread
That war and various; sometimes on firm ground
A standing fight, then, soaring on main wing,
Tormented all the air; all air seemed then
Conflicting fire.  Long time in even scale
The battle hung; till Satan, who that day
Prodigious power had shown, and met in arms
No equal, ranging through the dire attack
Of fighting Seraphim confused, at length
Saw where the sword of Michael smote, and felled
Squadrons at once; with huge two-handed sway
Brandished aloft, the horrid edge came down
Wide-wasting; such destruction to withstand
He hasted, and opposed the rocky orb
Of tenfold adamant, his ample shield,
A vast circumference.  At his approach
The great Arch-Angel from his warlike toil
Surceased, and glad, as hoping here to end
Intestine war in Heaven, the arch-foe subdued
Or captive dragged in chains, with hostile frown
And visage all inflamed first thus began.
Author of evil, unknown till thy revolt,
Unnamed in Heaven, now plenteous as thou seest
These acts of hateful strife, hateful to all,
Though heaviest by just measure on thyself,
And thy  adherents:  How hast thou disturbed
Heaven's blessed peace, and into nature brought
Misery, uncreated till the crime
Of thy rebellion! how hast thou instilled
Thy malice into thousands, once upright
And faithful, now proved false!  But think not here
To trouble holy rest; Heaven casts thee out
From all her confines.  Heaven, the seat of bliss,
Brooks not the works of violence and war.
Hence then, and evil go with thee along,
Thy offspring, to the place of evil, Hell;
Thou and thy wicked crew! there mingle broils,
Ere this avenging sword begin thy doom,
Or some more sudden vengeance, winged from God,
Precipitate thee with augmented pain.
So spake the Prince of Angels; to whom thus
The Adversary.  Nor think thou with wind
Of aery threats to awe whom yet with deeds
Thou canst not.  Hast thou turned the least of these
To flight, or if to fall, but that they rise
Unvanquished, easier to transact with me
That thou shouldst hope, imperious, and with threats
To chase me hence? err not, that so shall end
The strife which thou callest evil, but we style
The strife of glory; which we mean to win,
Or turn this Heaven itself into the Hell
Thou fablest; here however to dwell free,
If not to reign:  Mean while thy utmost force,
And join him named Almighty to thy aid,
I fly not, but have sought thee far and nigh.
They ended parle, and both addressed for fight
Unspeakable; for who, though with the tongue
Of Angels, can relate, or to what things
Liken on earth conspicuous, that may lift
Human imagination to such highth
Of Godlike power? for likest Gods they seemed,
Stood they or moved, in stature, motion, arms,
Fit to decide the empire of great Heaven.
Now waved their fiery swords, and in the air
Made horrid circles; two broad suns their shields
Blazed opposite, while Expectation stood
In horrour:  From each hand with speed retired,
Where erst was thickest fight, the angelick throng,
And left large field, unsafe within the wind
Of such commotion; such as, to set forth
Great things by small, if, nature's concord broke,
Among the constellations war were sprung,
Two planets, rushing from aspect malign
Of fiercest opposition, in mid sky
Should combat, and their jarring spheres confound.
Together both with next to almighty arm
Up-lifted imminent, one stroke they aimed
That might determine, and not need repeat,
As not of power at once; nor odds appeared
In might or swift prevention:  But the sword
Of Michael from the armoury of God
Was given him tempered so, that neither keen
Nor solid might resist that edge: it met
The sword of Satan, with steep force to smite
Descending, and in half cut sheer; nor staid,
But with swift wheel reverse, deep entering, shared
All his right side:  Then Satan first knew pain,
And writhed him to and fro convolved; so sore
The griding sword with discontinuous wound
Passed through him:  But the ethereal substance closed,
Not long divisible; and from the gash
A stream of necturous humour issuing flowed
Sanguine, such as celestial Spirits may bleed,
And all his armour stained, ere while so bright.
Forthwith on all sides to his aid was run
By Angels many and strong, who interposed
Defence, while others bore him on their shields
Back to his chariot, where it stood retired
From off the files of war:  There they him laid
Gnashing for anguish, and despite, and shame,
To find himself not matchless, and his pride
Humbled by such rebuke, so far beneath
His confidence to equal God in power.
Yet soon he healed; for Spirits that live throughout
Vital in every part, not as frail man
In entrails, heart of head, liver or reins,
Cannot but by annihilating die;
Nor in their liquid texture mortal wound
Receive, no more than can the fluid air:
All heart they live, all head, all eye, all ear,
All intellect, all sense; and, as they please,
They limb themselves, and colour, shape, or size
Assume, as?kikes them best, condense or rare.
Mean while in other parts like deeds deserved
Memorial, where the might of Gabriel fought,
And with fierce ensigns pierced the deep array
Of Moloch, furious king; who him defied,
And at his chariot-wheels to drag him bound
Threatened, nor from the Holy One of Heaven
Refrained his tongue blasphemous; but anon
Down cloven to the waist, with shattered arms
And uncouth pain fled bellowing.  On each wing
Uriel, and Raphael, his vaunting foe,
Though huge, and in a rock of diamond armed,
Vanquished Adramelech, and Asmadai,
Two potent Thrones, that to be less than Gods
Disdained, but meaner thoughts learned in their flight,
Mangled with ghastly wounds through plate and mail.
Nor stood unmindful Abdiel to annoy
The atheist crew, but with redoubled blow
Ariel, and Arioch, and the violence
Of Ramiel scorched and blasted, overthrew.
I might relate of thousands, and their names
Eternize here on earth; but those elect
Angels, contented with their fame in Heaven,
Seek not the praise of men:  The other sort,
In might though wonderous and in acts of war,
Nor of renown less eager, yet by doom
Cancelled from Heaven and sacred memory,
Nameless in dark oblivion let them dwell.
For strength from truth divided, and from just,
Illaudable, nought merits but dispraise
And ignominy; yet to glory aspires
Vain-glorious, and through infamy seeks fame:
Therefore eternal silence be their doom.
And now, their mightiest quelled, the battle swerved,
With many an inroad gored; deformed rout
Entered, and foul disorder; all the ground
With shivered armour strown, and on a heap
Chariot and charioteer lay overturned,
And fiery-foaming steeds; what stood, recoiled
O'er-wearied, through the faint Satanick host
Defensive scarce, or with pale fear surprised,
Then first with fear surprised, and sense of pain,
Fled ignominious, to such evil brought
By sin of disobedience; till that hour
Not liable to fear, or flight, or pain.
Far otherwise the inviolable Saints,
In cubick phalanx firm, advanced entire,
Invulnerable, impenetrably armed;
Such high advantages their innocence
Gave them above their foes; not to have sinned,
Not to have disobeyed; in fight they stood
Unwearied, unobnoxious to be pained
By wound, though from their place by violence moved,
Now Night her course began, and, over Heaven
Inducing darkness, grateful truce imposed,
And silence on the odious din of war:
Under her cloudy covert both retired,
Victor and vanquished:  On the foughten field
Michael and his Angels prevalent
Encamping, placed in guard their watches round,
Cherubick waving fires:  On the other part,
Satan with his rebellious disappeared,
Far in the dark dislodged; and, void of rest,
His potentates to council called by night;
And in the midst thus undismayed began.
O now in danger tried, now known in arms
Not to be overpowered, Companions dear,
Found worthy not of liberty alone,
Too mean pretence! but what we more affect,
Honour, dominion, glory, and renown;
Who have sustained one day in doubtful fight,
(And if one day, why not eternal days?)
What Heaven's Lord had powerfullest to send
Against us from about his throne, and judged
Sufficient to subdue us to his will,
But proves not so:  Then fallible, it seems,
Of future we may deem him, though till now
Omniscient thought.  True is, less firmly armed,
Some disadvantage we endured and pain,
Till now not known, but, known, as soon contemned;
Since now we find this our empyreal form
Incapable of mortal injury,
Imperishable, and, though pierced with wound,
Soon closing, and by native vigour healed.
Of evil then so small as easy think
The remedy; perhaps more valid arms,
Weapons more violent, when next we meet,
May serve to better us, and worse our foes,
Or equal what between us made the odds,
In nature none:  If other hidden cause
Left them superiour, while we can preserve
Unhurt our minds, and understanding sound,
Due search and consultation will disclose.
He sat; and in the assembly next upstood
Nisroch, of Principalities the prime;
As one he stood escaped from cruel fight,
Sore toiled, his riven arms to havock hewn,
And cloudy in aspect thus answering spake.
Deliverer from new Lords, leader to free
Enjoyment of our right as Gods; yet hard
For Gods, and too unequal work we find,
Against unequal arms to fight in pain,
Against unpained, impassive; from which evil
Ruin must needs ensue; for what avails
Valour or strength, though matchless, quelled with pain
Which all subdues, and makes remiss the hands
Of mightiest?  Sense of pleasure we may well
Spare out of life perhaps, and not repine,
But live content, which is the calmest life:
But pain is perfect misery, the worst
Of evils, and, excessive, overturns
All patience.  He, who therefore can invent
With what more forcible we may offend
Our yet unwounded enemies, or arm
Ourselves with like defence, to me deserves
No less than for deliverance what we owe.
Whereto with look composed Satan replied.
Not uninvented that, which thou aright
Believest so main to our success, I bring.
Which of us who beholds the bright surface
Of this ethereous mould whereon we stand,
This continent of spacious Heaven, adorned
With plant, fruit, flower ambrosial, gems, and gold;
Whose eye so superficially surveys
These things, as not to mind from whence they grow
Deep under ground, materials dark and crude,
Of spiritous and fiery spume, till touched
With Heaven's ray, and tempered, they shoot forth
So beauteous, opening to the ambient light?
These in their dark nativity the deep
Shall yield us, pregnant with infernal flame;
Which, into hollow engines, long and round,
Thick rammed, at the other bore with touch of fire
Dilated and infuriate, shall send forth
From far, with thundering noise, among our foes
Such implements of mischief, as shall dash
To pieces, and o'erwhelm whatever stands
Adverse, that they shall fear we have disarmed
The Thunderer of his only dreaded bolt.
Nor long shall be our labour; yet ere dawn,
Effect shall end our wish.  Mean while revive;
Abandon fear; to strength and counsel joined
Think nothing hard, much less to be despaired.
He ended, and his words their drooping cheer
Enlightened, and their languished hope revived.
The invention all admired, and each, how he
To be the inventer missed; so easy it seemed
Once found, which yet unfound most would have thought
Impossible:  Yet, haply, of thy race
In future days, if malice should abound,
Some one intent on mischief, or inspired
With devilish machination, might devise
Like instrument to plague the sons of men
For sin, on war and mutual slaughter bent.
Forthwith from council to the work they flew;
None arguing stood; innumerable hands
Were ready; in a moment up they turned
Wide the celestial soil, and saw beneath
The originals of nature in their crude
Conception; sulphurous and nitrous foam
They found, they mingled, and, with subtle art,
Concocted and adusted they reduced
To blackest grain, and into store conveyed:
Part hidden veins digged up (nor hath this earth
Entrails unlike) of mineral and stone,
Whereof to found their engines and their balls
Of missive ruin; part incentive reed
Provide, pernicious with one touch to fire.
So all ere day-spring, under conscious night,
Secret they finished, and in order set,
With silent circumspection, unespied.
Now when fair morn orient in Heaven appeared,
Up rose the victor-Angels, and to arms
The matin trumpet sung:  In arms they stood
Of golden panoply, refulgent host,
Soon banded; others from the dawning hills
Look round, and scouts each coast light-armed scour,
Each quarter to descry the distant foe,
Where lodged, or whither fled, or if for fight,
In motion or in halt:  Him soon they met
Under spread ensigns moving nigh, in slow
But firm battalion; back with speediest sail
Zophiel, of Cherubim the swiftest wing,
Came flying, and in mid air aloud thus cried.
Arm, Warriours, arm for fight; the foe at hand,
Whom fled we thought, will save us long pursuit
This day; fear not his flight;so thick a cloud
He comes, and settled in his face I see
Sad resolution, and secure:  Let each
His adamantine coat gird well, and each
Fit well his helm, gripe fast his orbed shield,
Borne even or high; for this day will pour down,
If I conjecture aught, no drizzling shower,
But rattling storm of arrows barbed with fire.
So warned he them, aware themselves, and soon
In order, quit of all impediment;
Instant without disturb they took alarm,
And onward moved embattled:  When behold!
Not distant far with heavy pace the foe
Approaching gross and huge, in hollow cube
Training his devilish enginery, impaled
On every side with shadowing squadrons deep,
To hide the fraud.  At interview both stood
A while; but suddenly at head appeared
Satan, and thus was heard commanding loud.
Vanguard, to right and left the front unfold;
That all may see who hate us, how we seek
Peace and composure, and with open breast
Stand ready to receive them, if they like
Our overture; and turn not back perverse:
But that I doubt; however witness, Heaven!
Heaven, witness thou anon! while we discharge
Freely our part: ye, who appointed stand
Do as you have in charge, and briefly touch
What we propound, and loud that all may hear!
So scoffing in ambiguous words, he scarce
Had ended; when to right and left the front
Divided, and to either flank retired:
Which to our eyes discovered, new and strange,
A triple mounted row of pillars laid
On wheels (for like to pillars most they seemed,
Or hollowed bodies made of oak or fir,
With branches lopt, in wood or mountain felled,)
Brass, iron, stony mould, had not their mouths
With hideous orifice gaped on us wide,
Portending hollow truce:  At each behind
A Seraph stood, and in his hand a reed
Stood waving tipt with fire; while we, suspense,
Collected stood within our thoughts amused,
Not long; for sudden all at once their reeds
Put forth, and to a narrow vent applied
With nicest touch.  Immediate in a flame,
But soon obscured with smoke, all Heaven appeared,
From those deep-throated engines belched, whose roar
Embowelled with outrageous noise the air,
And all her entrails tore, disgorging foul
Their devilish glut, chained thunderbolts and hail
Of iron globes; which, on the victor host
Levelled, with such impetuous fury smote,
That, whom they hit, none on their feet might stand,
Though standing else as rocks, but down they fell
By thousands, Angel on Arch-Angel rolled;
The sooner for their arms; unarmed, they might
Have easily, as Spirits, evaded swift
By quick contraction or remove; but now
Foul dissipation followed, and forced rout;
Nor served it to relax their serried files.
What should they do? if on they rushed, repulse
Repeated, and indecent overthrow
Doubled, would render them yet more despised,
And to their foes a laughter; for in view
Stood ranked of Seraphim another row,
In posture to displode their second tire
Of thunder:  Back defeated to return
They worse abhorred.  Satan beheld their plight,
And to his mates thus in derision called.
O Friends! why come not on these victors proud
Ere while they fierce were coming; and when we,
To entertain them fair with open front
And breast, (what could we more?) propounded terms
Of composition, straight they changed their minds,
Flew off, and into strange vagaries fell,
As they would dance; yet for a dance they seemed
Somewhat extravagant and wild; perhaps
For joy of offered peace:  But I suppose,
If our proposals once again were heard,
We should compel them to a quick result.
To whom thus Belial, in like gamesome mood.
Leader! the terms we sent were terms of weight,
Of hard contents, and full of force urged home;
Such as we might perceive amused them all,
And stumbled many:  Who receives them right,
Had need from head to foot well understand;
Not understood, this gift they have besides,
They show us when our foes walk not upright.
So they among themselves in pleasant vein
Stood scoffing, hightened in their thoughts beyond
All doubt of victory:  Eternal Might
To match with their inventions they presumed
So easy, and of his thunder made a scorn,
And all his host derided, while they stood
A while in trouble:  But they stood not long;
Rage prompted them at length, and found them arms
Against such hellish mischief fit to oppose.
Forthwith (behold the excellence, the power,
Which God hath in his mighty Angels placed!)
Their arms away they threw, and to the hills
(For Earth hath this variety from Heaven
Of pleasure situate in hill and dale,)
Light as the lightning glimpse they ran, they flew;
From their foundations loosening to and fro,
They plucked the seated hills, with all their load,
Rocks, waters, woods, and by the shaggy tops
Up-lifting bore them in their hands:  Amaze,
Be sure, and terrour, seized the rebel host,
When coming towards them so dread they saw
The bottom of the mountains upward turned;
Till on those cursed engines' triple-row
They saw them whelmed, and all their confidence
Under the weight of mountains buried deep;
Themselves invaded next, and on their heads
Main promontories flung, which in the air
Came shadowing, and oppressed whole legions armed;
Their armour helped their harm, crushed in and bruised
Into their substance pent, which wrought them pain
Implacable, and many a dolorous groan;
Long struggling underneath, ere they could wind
Out of such prison, though Spirits of purest light,
Purest at first, now gross by sinning grown.
The rest, in imitation, to like arms
Betook them, and the neighbouring hills uptore:
So hills amid the air encountered hills,
Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire;
That under ground they fought in dismal shade;
Infernal noise! war seemed a civil game
To this uproar; horrid confusion heaped
Upon confusion rose:  And now all Heaven
Had gone to wrack, with ruin overspread;
Had not the Almighty Father, where he sits
Shrined in his sanctuary of Heaven secure,
Consulting on the sum of things, foreseen
This tumult, and permitted all, advised:
That his great purpose he might so fulfil,
To honour his anointed Son avenged
Upon his enemies, and to declare
All power on him transferred:  Whence to his Son,
The Assessour of his throne, he thus began.
Effulgence of my glory, Son beloved,
Son, in whose face invisible is beheld
Visibly, what by Deity I am;
And in whose hand what by decree I do,
Second Omnipotence! two days are past,
Two days, as we compute the days of Heaven,
Since Michael and his Powers went forth to tame
These disobedient:  Sore hath been their fight,
As likeliest was, when two such foes met armed;
For to themselves I left them; and thou knowest,
Equal in their creation they were formed,
Save what sin hath impaired; which yet hath wrought
Insensibly, for I suspend their doom;
Whence in perpetual fight they needs must last
Endless, and no solution will be found:
War wearied hath performed what war can do,
And to disordered rage let loose the reins
With mountains, as with weapons, armed; which makes
Wild work in Heaven, and dangerous to the main.
Two days are therefore past, the third is thine;
For thee I have ordained it; and thus far
Have suffered, that the glory may be thine
Of ending this great war, since none but Thou
Can end it.  Into thee such virtue and grace
Immense I have transfused, that all may know
In Heaven and Hell thy power above compare;
And, this perverse commotion governed thus,
To manifest thee worthiest to be Heir
Of all things; to be Heir, and to be King
By sacred unction, thy deserved right.
Go then, Thou Mightiest, in thy Father's might;
Ascend my chariot, guide the rapid wheels
That shake Heaven's basis, bring forth all my war,
My bow and thunder, my almighty arms
Gird on, and sword upon thy puissant thigh;
Pursue these sons of darkness, drive them out
From all Heaven's bounds into the utter deep:
There let them learn, as likes them, to despise
God, and Messiah his anointed King.
He said, and on his Son with rays direct
Shone full; he all his Father full expressed
Ineffably into his face received;
And thus the Filial Godhead answering spake.
O Father, O Supreme of heavenly Thrones,
First, Highest, Holiest, Best; thou always seek'st
To glorify thy Son, I always thee,
As is most just:  This I my glory account,
My exaltation, and my whole delight,
That thou, in me well pleased, declarest thy will
Fulfilled, which to fulfil is all my bliss.
Scepter and power, thy giving, I assume,
And gladlier shall resign, when in the end
Thou shalt be all in all, and I in thee
For ever; and in me all whom thou lovest:
But whom thou hatest, I hate, and can put on
Thy terrours, as I put thy mildness on,
Image of thee in all things; and shall soon,
Armed with thy might, rid Heaven of these rebelled;
To their prepared ill mansion driven down,
To chains of darkness, and the undying worm;
That from thy just obedience could revolt,
Whom to obey is happiness entire.
Then shall thy Saints unmixed, and from the impure
Far separate, circling thy holy mount,
Unfeigned Halleluiahs to thee sing,
Hymns of high praise, and I among them Chief.
So said, he, o'er his scepter bowing, rose
From the right hand of Glory where he sat;
And the third sacred morn began to shine,
Dawning through Heaven.  Forth rushed with whirlwind sound
The chariot of Paternal Deity,
Flashing thick flames, wheel within wheel undrawn,
Itself instinct with Spirit, but convoyed
By four Cherubick shapes; four faces each
Had wonderous; as with stars, their bodies all
And wings were set with eyes; with eyes the wheels
Of beryl, and careering fires between;
Over their heads a crystal firmament,
Whereon a sapphire throne, inlaid with pure
Amber, and colours of the showery arch.
He, in celestial panoply all armed
Of radiant Urim, work divinely wrought,
Ascended; at his right hand Victory
Sat eagle-winged; beside him hung his bow
And quiver with three-bolted thunder stored;
And from about him fierce effusion rolled
Of smoke, and bickering flame, and sparkles dire:
Attended with ten thousand thousand Saints,
He onward came; far off his coming shone;
And twenty thousand (I their number heard)
Chariots of God, half on each hand, were seen;
He on the wings of Cherub rode sublime
On the crystalline sky, in sapphire throned,
Illustrious far and wide; but by his own
First seen:  Them unexpected joy surprised,
When the great ensign of Messiah blazed
Aloft by Angels borne, his sign in Heaven;
Under whose conduct Michael soon reduced
His army, circumfused on either wing,
Under their Head imbodied all in one.
Before him Power Divine his way prepared;
At his command the uprooted hills retired
Each to his place; they heard his voice, and went
Obsequious; Heaven his wonted face renewed,
And with fresh flowerets hill and valley smiled.
This saw his hapless foes, but stood obdured,
And to rebellious fight rallied their Powers,
Insensate, hope conceiving from despair.
In heavenly Spirits could such perverseness dwell?
But to convince the proud what signs avail,
Or wonders move the obdurate to relent?
They, hardened more by what might most reclaim,
Grieving to see his glory, at the sight
Took envy; and, aspiring to his highth,
Stood re-embattled fierce, by force or fraud
Weening to prosper, and at length prevail
Against God and Messiah, or to fall
In universal ruin last; and now
To final battle drew, disdaining flight,
Or faint retreat; when the great Son of God
To all his host on either hand thus spake.
Stand still in bright array, ye Saints; here stand,
Ye Angels armed; this day from battle rest:
Faithful hath been your warfare, and of God
Accepted, fearless in his righteous cause;
And as ye have received, so have ye done,
Invincibly:  But of this cursed crew
The punishment to other hand belongs;
Vengeance is his, or whose he sole appoints:
Number to this day's work is not ordained,
Nor multitude; stand only, and behold
God's indignation on these godless poured
By me; not you, but me, they have despised,
Yet envied; against me is all their rage,
Because the Father, to whom in Heaven s'preme
Kingdom, and power, and glory appertains,
Hath honoured me, according to his will.
Therefore to me their doom he hath assigned;
That they may have their wish, to try with me
In battle which the stronger proves; they all,
Or I alone against them; since by strength
They measure all, of other excellence
Not emulous, nor care who them excels;
Nor other strife with them do I vouchsafe.
So spake the Son, and into terrour changed
His countenance too severe to be beheld,
And full of wrath bent on his enemies.
At once the Four spread out their starry wings
With dreadful shade contiguous, and the orbs
Of his fierce chariot rolled, as with the sound
Of torrent floods, or of a numerous host.
He on his impious foes right onward drove,
Gloomy as night; under his burning wheels
The stedfast empyrean shook throughout,
All but the throne itself of God.  Full soon
Among them he arrived; in his right hand
Grasping ten thousand thunders, which he sent
Before him, such as in their souls infixed
Plagues:  They, astonished, all resistance lost,
All courage; down their idle weapons dropt:
O'er shields, and helms, and helmed heads he rode
Of Thrones and mighty Seraphim prostrate,
That wished the mountains now might be again
Thrown on them, as a shelter from his ire.
Nor less on either side tempestuous fell
His arrows, from the fourfold-visaged Four
Distinct with eyes, and from the living wheels
Distinct alike with multitude of eyes;
One Spirit in them ruled; and every eye
Glared lightning, and shot forth pernicious fire
Among the accursed, that withered all their strength,
And of their wonted vigour left them drained,
Exhausted, spiritless, afflicted, fallen.
Yet half his strength he put not forth, but checked
His thunder in mid volley; for he meant
Not to destroy, but root them out of Heaven:
The overthrown he raised, and as a herd
Of goats or timorous flock together thronged
Drove them before him thunder-struck, pursued
With terrours, and with furies, to the bounds
And crystal wall of Heaven; which, opening wide,
Rolled inward, and a spacious gap disclosed
Into the wasteful deep:  The monstrous sight
Struck them with horrour backward, but far worse
Urged them behind:  Headlong themselves they threw
Down from the verge of Heaven; eternal wrath
Burnt after them to the bottomless pit.
Hell heard the unsufferable noise, Hell saw
Heaven ruining from Heaven, and would have fled
Affrighted; but strict Fate had cast too deep
Her dark foundations, and too fast had bound.
Nine days they fell:  Confounded Chaos roared,
And felt tenfold confusion in their fall
Through his wild anarchy, so huge a rout
Incumbered him with ruin:  Hell at last
Yawning received them whole, and on them closed;
Hell, their fit habitation, fraught with fire
Unquenchable, the house of woe and pain.
Disburdened Heaven rejoiced, and soon repaired
Her mural breach, returning whence it rolled.
Sole victor, from the expulsion of his foes,
Messiah his triumphal chariot turned:
To meet him all his Saints, who silent stood
Eye-witnesses of his almighty acts,
With jubilee advanced; and, as they went,
Shaded with branching palm, each Order bright,
Sung triumph, and him sung victorious King,
Son, Heir, and Lord, to him dominion given,
Worthiest to reign:  He, celebrated, rode
Triumphant through mid Heaven, into the courts
And temple of his Mighty Father throned
On high; who into glory him received,
Where now he sits at the right hand of bliss.
Thus, measuring things in Heaven by things on Earth,
At thy request, and that thou mayest beware
By what is past, to thee I have revealed
What might have else to human race been hid;
The discord which befel, and war in Heaven
Among the angelick Powers, and the deep fall
Of those too high aspiring, who rebelled
With Satan; he who envies now thy state,
Who now is plotting how he may seduce
Thee also from obedience, that, with him
Bereaved of happiness, thou mayest partake
His punishment, eternal misery;
Which would be all his solace and revenge,
As a despite done against the Most High,
Thee once to gain companion of his woe.
But listen not to his temptations, warn
Thy weaker; let it profit thee to have heard,
By terrible example, the reward
Of disobedience; firm they might have stood,
Yet fell; remember, and fear to transgress.
Descend from Heaven, Urania, by that name
If rightly thou art called, whose voice divine
Following, above the Olympian hill I soar,
Above the flight of Pegasean wing!
The meaning, not the name, I call: for thou
Nor of the Muses nine, nor on the top
Of old Olympus dwellest; but, heavenly-born,
Before the hills appeared, or fountain flowed,
Thou with eternal Wisdom didst converse,
Wisdom thy sister, and with her didst play
In presence of the Almighty Father, pleased
With thy celestial song.  Up led by thee
Into the Heaven of Heavens I have presumed,
An earthly guest, and drawn empyreal air,
Thy tempering: with like safety guided down
Return me to my native element:
Lest from this flying steed unreined, (as once
Bellerophon, though from a lower clime,)
Dismounted, on the Aleian field I fall,
Erroneous there to wander, and forlorn.
Half yet remains unsung, but narrower bound
Within the visible diurnal sphere;
Standing on earth, not rapt above the pole,
More safe I sing with mortal voice, unchanged
To hoarse or mute, though fallen on evil days,
On evil days though fallen, and evil tongues;
In darkness, and with dangers compassed round,
And solitude; yet not alone, while thou
Visitest my slumbers nightly, or when morn
Purples the east: still govern thou my song,
Urania, and fit audience find, though few.
But drive far off the barbarous dissonance
Of Bacchus and his revellers, the race
Of that wild rout that tore the Thracian bard
In Rhodope, where woods and rocks had ears
To rapture, till the savage clamour drowned
Both harp and voice; nor could the Muse defend
Her son.  So fail not thou, who thee implores:
For thou art heavenly, she an empty dream.
Say, Goddess, what ensued when Raphael,
The affable Arch-Angel, had forewarned
Adam, by dire example, to beware
Apostasy, by what befel in Heaven
To those apostates; lest the like befall
In Paradise to Adam or his race,
Charged not to touch the interdicted tree,
If they transgress, and slight that sole command,
So easily obeyed amid the choice
Of all tastes else to please their appetite,
Though wandering.  He, with his consorted Eve,
The story heard attentive, and was filled
With admiration and deep muse, to hear
Of things so high and strange; things, to their thought
So unimaginable, as hate in Heaven,
And war so near the peace of God in bliss,
With such confusion: but the evil, soon
Driven back, redounded as a flood on those
From whom it sprung; impossible to mix
With blessedness.  Whence Adam soon repealed
The doubts that in his heart arose: and now
Led on, yet sinless, with desire to know
What nearer might concern him, how this world
Of Heaven and Earth conspicuous first began;
When, and whereof created; for what cause;
What within Eden, or without, was done
Before his memory; as one whose drouth
Yet scarce allayed still eyes the current stream,
Whose liquid murmur heard new thirst excites,
Proceeded thus to ask his heavenly guest.
Great things, and full of wonder in our ears,
Far differing from this world, thou hast revealed,
Divine interpreter! by favour sent
Down from the empyrean, to forewarn
Us timely of what might else have been our loss,
Unknown, which human knowledge could not reach;
For which to the infinitely Good we owe
Immortal thanks, and his admonishment
Receive, with solemn purpose to observe
Immutably his sovran will, the end
Of what we are.  But since thou hast vouchsafed
Gently, for our instruction, to impart
Things above earthly thought, which yet concerned
Our knowing, as to highest wisdom seemed,
Deign to descend now lower, and relate
What may no less perhaps avail us known,
How first began this Heaven which we behold
Distant so high, with moving fires adorned
Innumerable; and this which yields or fills
All space, the ambient air wide interfused
Embracing round this floried Earth; what cause
Moved the Creator, in his holy rest
Through all eternity, so late to build
In Chaos; and the work begun, how soon
Absolved; if unforbid thou mayest unfold
What we, not to explore the secrets ask
Of his eternal empire, but the more
To magnify his works, the more we know.
And the great light of day yet wants to run
Much of his race though steep; suspense in Heaven,
Held by thy voice, thy potent voice, he hears,
And longer will delay to hear thee tell
His generation, and the rising birth
Of Nature from the unapparent Deep:
Or if the star of evening and the moon
Haste to thy audience, Night with her will bring,
Silence; and Sleep, listening to thee, will watch;
Or we can bid his absence, till thy song
End, and dismiss thee ere the morning shine.
Thus Adam his illustrious guest besought:
And thus the Godlike Angel answered mild.
This also thy request, with caution asked,
Obtain; though to recount almighty works
What words or tongue of Seraph can suffice,
Or heart of man suffice to comprehend?
Yet what thou canst attain, which best may serve
To glorify the Maker, and infer
Thee also happier, shall not be withheld
Thy hearing; such commission from above
I have received, to answer thy desire
Of knowledge within bounds; beyond, abstain
To ask; nor let thine own inventions hope
Things not revealed, which the invisible King,
Only Omniscient, hath suppressed in night;
To none communicable in Earth or Heaven:
Enough is left besides to search and know.
But knowledge is as food, and needs no less
Her temperance over appetite, to know
In measure what the mind may well contain;
Oppresses else with surfeit, and soon turns
Wisdom to folly, as nourishment to wind.
Know then, that, after Lucifer from Heaven
(So call him, brighter once amidst the host
Of Angels, than that star the stars among,)
Fell with his flaming legions through the deep
Into his place, and the great Son returned
Victorious with his Saints, the Omnipotent
Eternal Father from his throne beheld
Their multitude, and to his Son thus spake.
At least our envious Foe hath failed, who thought
All like himself rebellious, by whose aid
This inaccessible high strength, the seat
Of Deity supreme, us dispossessed,
He trusted to have seised, and into fraud
Drew many, whom their place knows here no more:
Yet far the greater part have kept, I see,
Their station; Heaven, yet populous, retains
Number sufficient to possess her realms
Though wide, and this high temple to frequent
With ministeries due, and solemn rites:
But, lest his heart exalt him in the harm
Already done, to have dispeopled Heaven,
My damage fondly deemed, I can repair
That detriment, if such it be to lose
Self-lost; and in a moment will create
Another world, out of one man a race
Of men innumerable, there to dwell,
Not here; till, by degrees of merit raised,
They open to themselves at length the way
Up hither, under long obedience tried;
And Earth be changed to Heaven, and Heaven to Earth,
One kingdom, joy and union without end.
Mean while inhabit lax, ye Powers of Heaven;
And thou my Word, begotten Son, by thee
This I perform; speak thou, and be it done!
My overshadowing Spirit and Might with thee
I send along; ride forth, and bid the Deep
Within appointed bounds be Heaven and Earth;
Boundless the Deep, because I Am who fill
Infinitude, nor vacuous the space.
Though I, uncircumscribed myself, retire,
And put not forth my goodness, which is free
To act or not, Necessity and Chance
Approach not me, and what I will is Fate.
So spake the Almighty, and to what he spake
His Word, the Filial Godhead, gave effect.
Immediate are the acts of God, more swift
Than time or motion, but to human ears
Cannot without process of speech be told,
So told as earthly notion can receive.
Great triumph and rejoicing was in Heaven,
When such was heard declared the Almighty's will;
Glory they sung to the Most High, good will
To future men, and in their dwellings peace;
Glory to Him, whose just avenging ire
Had driven out the ungodly from his sight
And the habitations of the just; to Him
Glory and praise, whose wisdom had ordained
Good out of evil to create; instead
Of Spirits malign, a better race to bring
Into their vacant room, and thence diffuse
His good to worlds and ages infinite.
So sang the Hierarchies:  Mean while the Son
On his great expedition now appeared,
Girt with Omnipotence, with radiance crowned
Of Majesty Divine; sapience and love
Immense, and all his Father in him shone.
About his chariot numberless were poured
Cherub, and Seraph, Potentates, and Thrones,
And Virtues, winged Spirits, and chariots winged
From the armoury of God; where stand of old
Myriads, between two brazen mountains lodged
Against a solemn day, harnessed at hand,
Celestial equipage; and now came forth
Spontaneous, for within them Spirit lived,
Attendant on their Lord:  Heaven opened wide
Her ever-during gates, harmonious sound
On golden hinges moving, to let forth
The King of Glory, in his powerful Word
And Spirit, coming to create new worlds.
On heavenly ground they stood; and from the shore
They viewed the vast immeasurable abyss
Outrageous as a sea, dark, wasteful, wild,
Up from the bottom turned by furious winds
And surging waves, as mountains, to assault
Heaven's highth, and with the center mix the pole.
Silence, ye troubled Waves, and thou Deep, peace,
Said then the Omnifick Word; your discord end!
Nor staid; but, on the wings of Cherubim
Uplifted, in paternal glory rode
Far into Chaos, and the world unborn;
For Chaos heard his voice:  Him all his train
Followed in bright procession, to behold
Creation, and the wonders of his might.
Then staid the fervid wheels, and in his hand
He took the golden compasses, prepared
In God's eternal store, to circumscribe
This universe, and all created things:
One foot he centered, and the other turned
Round through the vast profundity obscure;
And said, Thus far extend, thus far thy bounds,
This be thy just circumference, O World!
Thus God the Heaven created, thus the Earth,
Matter unformed and void:  Darkness profound
Covered the abyss: but on the watery calm
His brooding wings the Spirit of God outspread,
And vital virtue infused, and vital warmth
Throughout the fluid mass; but downward purged
The black tartareous cold infernal dregs,
Adverse to life: then founded, then conglobed
Like things to like; the rest to several place
Disparted, and between spun out the air;
And Earth self-balanced on her center hung.
Let there be light, said God; and forthwith Light
Ethereal, first of things, quintessence pure,
Sprung from the deep; and from her native east
To journey through the aery gloom began,
Sphered in a radiant cloud, for yet the sun
Was not; she in a cloudy tabernacle
Sojourned the while.  God saw the light was good;
And light from darkness by the hemisphere
Divided: light the Day, and darkness Night,
He named.  Thus was the first day even and morn:
Nor past uncelebrated, nor unsung
By the celestial quires, when orient light
Exhaling first from darkness they beheld;
Birth-day of Heaven and Earth; with joy and shout
The hollow universal orb they filled,
And touched their golden harps, and hymning praised
God and his works; Creator him they sung,
Both when first evening was, and when first morn.
Again, God said,  Let there be firmament
Amid the waters, and let it divide
The waters from the waters; and God made
The firmament, expanse of liquid, pure,
Transparent, elemental air, diffused
In circuit to the uttermost convex
Of this great round; partition firm and sure,
The waters underneath from those above
Dividing: for as earth, so he the world
Built on circumfluous waters calm, in wide
Crystalline ocean, and the loud misrule
Of Chaos far removed; lest fierce extremes
Contiguous might distemper the whole frame:
And Heaven he named the Firmament:  So even
And morning chorus sung the second day.
The Earth was formed, but in the womb as yet
Of waters, embryon immature involved,
Appeared not: over all the face of Earth
Main ocean flowed, not idle; but, with warm
Prolifick humour softening all her globe,
Fermented the great mother to conceive,
Satiate with genial moisture; when God said,
Be gathered now ye waters under Heaven
Into one place, and let dry land appear.
Immediately the mountains huge appear
Emergent, and their broad bare backs upheave
Into the clouds; their tops ascend the sky:
So high as heaved the tumid hills, so low
Down sunk a hollow bottom broad and deep,
Capacious bed of waters:  Thither they
Hasted with glad precipitance, uprolled,
As drops on dust conglobing from the dry:
Part rise in crystal wall, or ridge direct,
For haste; such flight the great command impressed
On the swift floods:  As armies at the call
Of trumpet (for of armies thou hast heard)
Troop to their standard; so the watery throng,
Wave rolling after wave, where way they found,
If steep, with torrent rapture, if through plain,
Soft-ebbing; nor withstood them rock or hill;
But they, or under ground, or circuit wide
With serpent errour wandering, found their way,
And on the washy oose deep channels wore;
Easy, ere God had bid the ground be dry,
All but within those banks, where rivers now
Stream, and perpetual draw their humid train.
The dry land, Earth; and the great receptacle
Of congregated waters, he called Seas:
And saw that it was good; and said, Let the Earth
Put forth the verdant grass, herb yielding seed,
And fruit-tree yielding fruit after her kind,
Whose seed is in herself upon the Earth.
He scarce had said, when the bare Earth, till then
Desart and bare, unsightly, unadorned,
Brought forth the tender grass, whose verdure clad
Her universal face with pleasant green;
Then herbs of every leaf, that sudden flowered
Opening their various colours, and made gay
Her bosom, smelling sweet: and, these scarce blown,
Forth flourished thick the clustering vine, forth crept
The swelling gourd, up stood the corny reed
Embattled in her field, and the humble shrub,
And bush with frizzled hair implicit:  Last
Rose, as in dance, the stately trees, and spread
Their branches hung with copious fruit, or gemmed
Their blossoms:  With high woods the hills were crowned;
With tufts the valleys, and each fountain side;
With borders long the rivers: that Earth now
Seemed like to Heaven, a seat where Gods might dwell,
Or wander with delight, and love to haunt
Her sacred shades: though God had yet not rained
Upon the Earth, and man to till the ground
None was; but from the Earth a dewy mist
Went up, and watered all the ground, and each
Plant of the field; which, ere it was in the Earth,
God made, and every herb, before it grew
On the green stem:  God saw that it was good:
So even and morn recorded the third day.
Again the Almighty spake, Let there be lights
High in the expanse of Heaven, to divide
The day from night; and let them be for signs,
For seasons, and for days, and circling years;
And let them be for lights, as I ordain
Their office in the firmament of Heaven,
To give light on the Earth; and it was so.
And God made two great lights, great for their use
To Man, the greater to have rule by day,
The less by night, altern; and made the stars,
And set them in the firmament of Heaven
To illuminate the Earth, and rule the day
In their vicissitude, and rule the night,
And light from darkness to divide.  God saw,
Surveying his great work, that it was good:
For of celestial bodies first the sun
A mighty sphere he framed, unlightsome first,
Though of ethereal mould: then formed the moon
Globose, and every magnitude of stars,
And sowed with stars the Heaven, thick as a field:
Of light by far the greater part he took,
Transplanted from her cloudy shrine, and placed
In the sun's orb, made porous to receive
And drink the liquid light; firm to retain
Her gathered beams, great palace now of light.
Hither, as to their fountain, other stars
Repairing, in their golden urns draw light,
And hence the morning-planet gilds her horns;
By tincture or reflection they augment
Their small peculiar, though from human sight
So far remote, with diminution seen,
First in his east the glorious lamp was seen,
Regent of day, and all the horizon round
Invested with bright rays, jocund to run
His longitude through Heaven's high road; the gray
Dawn, and the Pleiades, before him danced,
Shedding sweet influence:  Less bright the moon,
But opposite in levelled west was set,
His mirrour, with full face borrowing her light
From him; for other light she needed none
In that aspect, and still that distance keeps
Till night; then in the east her turn she shines,
Revolved on Heaven's great axle, and her reign
With thousand lesser lights dividual holds,
With thousand thousand stars, that then appeared
Spangling the hemisphere:  Then first adorned
With their bright luminaries that set and rose,
Glad evening and glad morn crowned the fourth day.
And God said, Let the waters generate
Reptile with spawn abundant, living soul:
And let fowl fly above the Earth, with wings
Displayed on the open firmament of Heaven.
And God created the great whales, and each
Soul living, each that crept, which plenteously
The waters generated by their kinds;
And every bird of wing after his kind;
And saw that it was good, and blessed them, saying.
Be fruitful, multiply, and in the seas,
And lakes, and running streams, the waters fill;
And let the fowl be multiplied, on the Earth.
Forthwith the sounds and seas, each creek and bay,
With fry innumerable swarm, and shoals
Of fish that with their fins, and shining scales,
Glide under the green wave, in sculls that oft
Bank the mid sea: part single, or with mate,
Graze the sea-weed their pasture, and through groves
Of coral stray; or, sporting with quick glance,
Show to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold;
Or, in their pearly shells at ease, attend
Moist nutriment; or under rocks their food
In jointed armour watch: on smooth the seal
And bended dolphins play: part huge of bulk
Wallowing unwieldy, enormous in their gait,
Tempest the ocean: there leviathan,
Hugest of living creatures, on the deep
Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims,
And seems a moving land; and at his gills
Draws in, and at his trunk spouts out, a sea.
Mean while the tepid caves, and fens, and shores,
Their brood as numerous hatch, from the egg that soon
Bursting with kindly rupture forth disclosed
Their callow young; but feathered soon and fledge
They summed their pens; and, soaring the air sublime,
With clang despised the ground, under a cloud
In prospect; there the eagle and the stork
On cliffs and cedar tops their eyries build:
Part loosely wing the region, part more wise
In common, ranged in figure, wedge their way,
Intelligent of seasons, and set forth
Their aery caravan, high over seas
Flying, and over lands, with mutual wing
Easing their flight; so steers the prudent crane
Her annual voyage, borne on winds; the air
Floats as they pass, fanned with unnumbered plumes:
From branch to branch the smaller birds with song
Solaced the woods, and spread their painted wings
Till even; nor then the solemn nightingale
Ceased warbling, but all night tun'd her soft lays:
Others, on silver lakes and rivers, bathed
Their downy breast; the swan with arched neck,
Between her white wings mantling proudly, rows
Her state with oary feet; yet oft they quit
The dank, and, rising on stiff pennons, tower
The mid aereal sky:  Others on ground
Walked firm; the crested cock whose clarion sounds
The silent hours, and the other whose gay train
Adorns him, coloured with the florid hue
Of rainbows and starry eyes.  The waters thus
With fish replenished, and the air with fowl,
Evening and morn solemnized the fifth day.
The sixth, and of creation last, arose
With evening harps and matin; when God said,
Let the Earth bring forth soul living in her kind,
Cattle, and creeping things, and beast of the Earth,
Each in their kind.  The Earth obeyed, and straight
Opening her fertile womb teemed at a birth
Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms,
Limbed and full grown:  Out of the ground up rose,
As from his lair, the wild beast where he wons
In forest wild, in thicket, brake, or den;
Among the trees in pairs they rose, they walked:
The cattle in the fields and meadows green:
Those rare and solitary, these in flocks
Pasturing at once, and in broad herds upsprung.
The grassy clods now calved; now half appeared
The tawny lion, pawing to get free
His hinder parts, then springs as broke from bonds,
And rampant shakes his brinded mane; the ounce,
The libbard, and the tiger, as the mole
Rising, the crumbled earth above them threw
In hillocks:  The swift stag from under ground
Bore up his branching head:  Scarce from his mould
Behemoth biggest born of earth upheaved
His vastness:  Fleeced the flocks and bleating rose,
As plants:  Ambiguous between sea and land
The river-horse, and scaly crocodile.
At once came forth whatever creeps the ground,
Insect or worm: those waved their limber fans
For wings, and smallest lineaments exact
In all the liveries decked of summer's pride
With spots of gold and purple, azure and green:
These, as a line, their long dimension drew,
Streaking the ground with sinuous trace; not all
Minims of nature; some of serpent-kind,
Wonderous in length and corpulence, involved
Their snaky folds, and added wings.  First crept
The parsimonious emmet, provident
Of future; in small room large heart enclosed;
Pattern of just equality perhaps
Hereafter, joined in her popular tribes
Of commonalty:  Swarming next appeared
The female bee, that feeds her husband drone
Deliciously, and builds her waxen cells
With honey stored:  The rest are numberless,
And thou their natures knowest, and gavest them names,
Needless to thee repeated; nor unknown
The serpent, subtlest beast of all the field,
Of huge extent sometimes, with brazen eyes
And hairy mane terrifick, though to thee
Not noxious, but obedient at thy call.
Now Heaven in all her glory shone, and rolled
Her motions, as the great first Mover's hand
First wheeled their course:  Earth in her rich attire
Consummate lovely smiled; air, water, earth,
By fowl, fish, beast, was flown, was swum, was walked,
Frequent; and of the sixth day yet remained:
There wanted yet the master-work, the end
Of all yet done; a creature, who, not prone
And brute as other creatures, but endued
With sanctity of reason, might erect
His stature, and upright with front serene
Govern the rest, self-knowing; and from thence
Magnanimous to correspond with Heaven,
But grateful to acknowledge whence his good
Descends, thither with heart, and voice, and eyes
Directed in devotion, to adore
And worship God Supreme, who made him chief
Of all his works:  therefore the Omnipotent
Eternal Father (for where is not he
Present?) thus to his Son audibly spake.
Let us make now Man in our image, Man
In our similitude, and let them rule
Over the fish and fowl of sea and air,
Beast of the field, and over all the Earth,
And every creeping thing that creeps the ground.
This said, he formed thee, Adam, thee, O Man,
Dust of the ground, and in thy nostrils breathed
The breath of life; in his own image he
Created thee, in the image of God
Express; and thou becamest a living soul.
Male he created thee; but thy consort
Female, for race; then blessed mankind, and said,
Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the Earth;
Subdue it, and throughout dominion hold
Over fish of the sea, and fowl of the air,
And every living thing that moves on the Earth.
Wherever thus created, for no place
Is yet distinct by name, thence, as thou knowest,
He brought thee into this delicious grove,
This garden, planted with the trees of God,
Delectable both to behold and taste;
And freely all their pleasant fruit for food
Gave thee; all sorts are here that all the Earth yields,
Variety without end; but of the tree,
Which, tasted, works knowledge of good and evil,
Thou mayest not; in the day thou eatest, thou diest;
Death is the penalty imposed; beware,
And govern well thy appetite; lest Sin
Surprise thee, and her black attendant Death.
Here finished he, and all that he had made
Viewed, and behold all was entirely good;
So even and morn accomplished the sixth day:
Yet not till the Creator from his work
Desisting, though unwearied, up returned,
Up to the Heaven of Heavens, his high abode;
Thence to behold this new created world,
The addition of his empire, how it showed
In prospect from his throne, how good, how fair,
Answering his great idea.  Up he rode
Followed with acclamation, and the sound
Symphonious of ten thousand harps, that tuned
Angelick harmonies:  The earth, the air
Resounded, (thou rememberest, for thou heardst,)
The heavens and all the constellations rung,
The planets in their station listening stood,
While the bright pomp ascended jubilant.
Open, ye everlasting gates! they sung,
Open, ye Heavens! your living doors;let in
The great Creator from his work returned
Magnificent, his six days work, a World;
Open, and henceforth oft; for God will deign
To visit oft the dwellings of just men,
Delighted; and with frequent intercourse
Thither will send his winged messengers
On errands of supernal grace.  So sung
The glorious train ascending:  He through Heaven,
That opened wide her blazing portals, led
To God's eternal house direct the way;
A broad and ample road, whose dust is gold
And pavement stars, as stars to thee appear,
Seen in the galaxy, that milky way,
Which nightly, as a circling zone, thou seest
Powdered with stars.  And now on Earth the seventh
Evening arose in Eden, for the sun
Was set, and twilight from the east came on,
Forerunning night; when at the holy mount
Of Heaven's high-seated top, the imperial throne
Of Godhead, fixed for ever firm and sure,
The Filial Power arrived, and sat him down
With his great Father; for he also went
Invisible, yet staid, (such privilege
Hath Omnipresence) and the work ordained,
Author and End of all things; and, from work
Now resting, blessed and hallowed the seventh day,
As resting on that day from all his work,
But not in silence holy kept: the harp
Had work and rested not; the solemn pipe,
And dulcimer, all organs of sweet stop,
All sounds on fret by string or golden wire,
Tempered soft tunings, intermixed with voice
Choral or unison: of incense clouds,
Fuming from golden censers, hid the mount.
Creation and the six days acts they sung:
Great are thy works, Jehovah! infinite
Thy power! what thought can measure thee, or tongue
Relate thee!  Greater now in thy return
Than from the giant Angels:  Thee that day
Thy thunders magnified; but to create
Is greater than created to destroy.
Who can impair thee, Mighty King, or bound
Thy empire!  Easily the proud attempt
Of Spirits apostate, and their counsels vain,
Thou hast repelled; while impiously they thought
Thee to diminish, and from thee withdraw
The number of thy worshippers.  Who seeks
To lessen thee, against his purpose serves
To manifest the more thy might: his evil
Thou usest, and from thence createst more good.
Witness this new-made world, another Heaven
From Heaven-gate not far, founded in view
On the clear hyaline, the glassy sea;
Of amplitude almost immense, with stars
Numerous, and every star perhaps a world
Of destined habitation; but thou knowest
Their seasons: among these the seat of Men,
Earth, with her nether ocean circumfused,
Their pleasant dwelling-place.  Thrice happy Men,
And sons of Men, whom God hath thus advanced!
Created in his image, there to dwell
And worship him; and in reward to rule
Over his works, on earth, in sea, or air,
And multiply a race of worshippers
Holy and just:  Thrice happy, if they know
Their happiness, and persevere upright!
So sung they, and the empyrean rung
With halleluiahs:  Thus was sabbath kept.
And thy request think now fulfilled, that asked
How first this world and face of things began,
And what before thy memory was done
From the beginning; that posterity,
Informed by thee, might know:  If else thou seekest
Aught, not surpassing human measure, say.
The Angel ended, and in Adam's ear
So charming left his voice, that he a while
Thought him still speaking, still stood fixed to hear;
Then, as new waked, thus gratefully replied.
What thanks sufficient, or what recompence
Equal, have I to render thee, divine
Historian, who thus largely hast allayed
The thirst I had of knowledge, and vouchsafed
This friendly condescension to relate
Things, else by me unsearchable; now heard
With wonder, but delight, and, as is due,
With glory attributed to the high
Creator!  Something yet of doubt remains,
Which only thy solution can resolve.
When I behold this goodly frame, this world,
Of Heaven and Earth consisting; and compute
Their magnitudes; this Earth, a spot, a grain,
An atom, with the firmament compared
And all her numbered stars, that seem to roll
Spaces incomprehensible, (for such
Their distance argues, and their swift return
Diurnal,) merely to officiate light
Round this opacous Earth, this punctual spot,
One day and night; in all her vast survey
Useless besides; reasoning I oft admire,
How Nature wise and frugal could commit
Such disproportions, with superfluous hand
So many nobler bodies to create,
Greater so manifold, to this one use,
For aught appears, and on their orbs impose
Such restless revolution day by day
Repeated; while the sedentary Earth,
That better might with far less compass move,
Served by more noble than herself, attains
Her end without least motion, and receives,
As tribute, such a sumless journey brought
Of incorporeal speed, her warmth and light;
Speed, to describe whose swiftness number fails.
So spake our sire, and by his countenance seemed
Entering on studious thoughts abstruse; which Eve
Perceiving, where she sat retired in sight,
With lowliness majestick from her seat,
And grace that won who saw to wish her stay,
Rose, and went forth among her fruits and flowers,
To visit how they prospered, bud and bloom,
Her nursery; they at her coming sprung,
And, touched by her fair tendance, gladlier grew.
Yet went she not, as not with such discourse
Delighted, or not capable her ear
Of what was high: such pleasure she reserved,
Adam relating, she sole auditress;
Her husband the relater she preferred
Before the Angel, and of him to ask
Chose rather; he, she knew, would intermix
Grateful digressions, and solve high dispute
With conjugal caresses: from his lip
Not words alone pleased her.  O! when meet now
Such pairs, in love and mutual honour joined?
With Goddess-like demeanour forth she went,
Not unattended; for on her, as Queen,
A pomp of winning Graces waited still,
And from about her shot darts of desire
Into all eyes, to wish her still in sight.
And Raphael now, to Adam's doubt proposed,
Benevolent and facile thus replied.
To ask or search, I blame thee not; for Heaven
Is as the book of God before thee set,
Wherein to read his wonderous works, and learn
His seasons, hours, or days, or months, or years:
This to attain, whether Heaven move or Earth,
Imports not, if thou reckon right; the rest
From Man or Angel the great Architect
Did wisely to conceal, and not divulge
His secrets to be scanned by them who ought
Rather admire; or, if they list to try
Conjecture, he his fabrick of the Heavens
Hath left to their disputes, perhaps to move
His laughter at their quaint opinions wide
Hereafter; when they come to model Heaven
And calculate the stars, how they will wield
The mighty frame; how build, unbuild, contrive
To save appearances; how gird the sphere
With centrick and eccentrick scribbled o'er,
Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb:
Already by thy reasoning this I guess,
Who art to lead thy offspring, and supposest
That bodies bright and greater should not serve
The less not bright, nor Heaven such journeys run,
Earth sitting still, when she alone receives
The benefit:  Consider first, that great
Or bright infers not excellence: the Earth
Though, in comparison of Heaven, so small,
Nor glistering, may of solid good contain
More plenty than the sun that barren shines;
Whose virtue on itself works no effect,
But in the fruitful Earth; there first received,
His beams, unactive else, their vigour find.
Yet not to Earth are those bright luminaries
Officious; but to thee, Earth's habitant.
And for the Heaven's wide circuit, let it speak
The Maker's high magnificence, who built
So spacious, and his line stretched out so far;
That Man may know he dwells not in his own;
An edifice too large for him to fill,
Lodged in a small partition; and the rest
Ordained for uses to his Lord best known.
The swiftness of those circles attribute,
Though numberless, to his Omnipotence,
That to corporeal substances could add
Speed almost spiritual:  Me thou thinkest not slow,
Who since the morning-hour set out from Heaven
Where God resides, and ere mid-day arrived
In Eden; distance inexpressible
By numbers that have name.  But this I urge,
Admitting motion in the Heavens, to show
Invalid that which thee to doubt it moved;
Not that I so affirm, though so it seem
To thee who hast thy dwelling here on Earth.
God, to remove his ways from human sense,
Placed Heaven from Earth so far, that earthly sight,
If it presume, might err in things too high,
And no advantage gain.  What if the sun
Be center to the world; and other stars,
By his attractive virtue and their own
Incited, dance about him various rounds?
Their wandering course now high, now low, then hid,
Progressive, retrograde, or standing still,
In six thou seest; and what if seventh to these
The planet earth, so stedfast though she seem,
Insensibly three different motions move?
Which else to several spheres thou must ascribe,
Moved contrary with thwart obliquities;
Or save the sun his labour, and that swift
Nocturnal and diurnal rhomb supposed,
Invisible else above all stars, the wheel
Of day and night; which needs not thy belief,
If earth, industrious of herself, fetch day
Travelling east, and with her part averse
From the sun's beam meet night, her other part
Still luminous by his ray.  What if that light,
Sent from her through the wide transpicuous air,
To the terrestrial moon be as a star,
Enlightening her by day, as she by night
This earth? reciprocal, if land be there,
Fields and inhabitants:  Her spots thou seest
As clouds, and clouds may rain, and rain produce
Fruits in her softened soil for some to eat
Allotted there; and other suns perhaps,
With their attendant moons, thou wilt descry,
Communicating male and female light;
Which two great sexes animate the world,
Stored in each orb perhaps with some that live.
For such vast room in Nature unpossessed
By living soul, desart and desolate,
Only to shine, yet scarce to contribute
Each orb a glimpse of light, conveyed so far
Down to this habitable, which returns
Light back to them, is obvious to dispute.
But whether thus these things, or whether not;
But whether the sun, predominant in Heaven,
Rise on the earth; or earth rise on the sun;
He from the east his flaming road begin;
Or she from west her silent course advance,
With inoffensive pace that spinning sleeps
On her soft axle, while she paces even,
And bears thee soft with the smooth hair along;
Sollicit not thy thoughts with matters hid;
Leave them to God above; him serve, and fear!
Of other creatures, as him pleases best,
Wherever placed, let him dispose; joy thou
In what he gives to thee, this Paradise
And thy fair Eve; Heaven is for thee too high
To know what passes there; be lowly wise:
Think only what concerns thee, and thy being;
Dream not of other worlds, what creatures there
Live, in what state, condition, or degree;
Contented that thus far hath been revealed
Not of Earth only, but of highest Heaven.
To whom thus Adam, cleared of doubt, replied.
How fully hast thou satisfied me, pure
Intelligence of Heaven, Angel serene!
And, freed from intricacies, taught to live
The easiest way; nor with perplexing thoughts
To interrupt the sweet of life, from which
God hath bid dwell far off all anxious cares,
And not molest us; unless we ourselves
Seek them with wandering thoughts, and notions vain.
But apt the mind or fancy is to rove
Unchecked, and of her roving is no end;
Till warned, or by experience taught, she learn,
That, not to know at large of things remote
From use, obscure and subtle; but, to know
That which before us lies in daily life,
Is the prime wisdom:  What is more, is fume,
Or emptiness, or fond impertinence:
And renders us, in things that most concern,
Unpractised, unprepared, and still to seek.
Therefore from this high pitch let us descend
A lower flight, and speak of things at hand
Useful; whence, haply, mention may arise
Of something not unseasonable to ask,
By sufferance, and thy wonted favour, deigned.
Thee I have heard relating what was done
Ere my remembrance: now, hear me relate
My story, which perhaps thou hast not heard;
And day is not yet spent; till then thou seest
How subtly to detain thee I devise;
Inviting thee to hear while I relate;
Fond! were it not in hope of thy reply:
For, while I sit with thee, I seem in Heaven;
And sweeter thy discourse is to my ear
Than fruits of palm-tree pleasantest to thirst
And hunger both, from labour, at the hour
Of sweet repast; they satiate, and soon fill,
Though pleasant; but thy words, with grace divine
Imbued, bring to their sweetness no satiety.
To whom thus Raphael answered heavenly meek.
Nor are thy lips ungraceful, Sire of men,
Nor tongue ineloquent; for God on thee
Abundantly his gifts hath also poured
Inward and outward both, his image fair:
Speaking, or mute, all comeliness and grace
Attends thee; and each word, each motion, forms;
Nor less think we in Heaven of thee on Earth
Than of our fellow-servant, and inquire
Gladly into the ways of God with Man:
For God, we see, hath honoured thee, and set
On Man his equal love:  Say therefore on;
For I that day was absent, as befel,
Bound on a voyage uncouth and obscure,
Far on excursion toward the gates of Hell;
Squared in full legion (such command we had)
To see that none thence issued forth a spy,
Or enemy, while God was in his work;
Lest he, incensed at such eruption bold,
Destruction with creation might have mixed.
Not that they durst without his leave attempt;
But us he sends upon his high behests
For state, as Sovran King; and to inure
Our prompt obedience.  Fast we found, fast shut,
The dismal gates, and barricadoed strong;
But long ere our approaching heard within
Noise, other than the sound of dance or song,
Torment, and loud lament, and furious rage.
Glad we returned up to the coasts of light
Ere sabbath-evening: so we had in charge.
But thy relation now; for I attend,
Pleased with thy words no less than thou with mine.
So spake the Godlike Power, and thus our Sire.
For Man to tell how human life began
Is hard; for who himself beginning knew
Desire with thee still longer to converse
Induced me.  As new waked from soundest sleep,
Soft on the flowery herb I found me laid,
In balmy sweat; which with his beams the sun
Soon dried, and on the reeking moisture fed.
Straight toward Heaven my wondering eyes I turned,
And gazed a while the ample sky; till, raised
By quick instinctive motion, up I sprung,
As thitherward endeavouring, and upright
Stood on my feet: about me round I saw
Hill, dale, and shady woods, and sunny plains,
And liquid lapse of murmuring streams; by these,
Creatures that lived and moved, and walked, or flew;
Birds on the branches warbling; all things smiled;
With fragrance and with joy my heart o'erflowed.
Myself I then perused, and limb by limb
Surveyed, and sometimes went, and sometimes ran
With supple joints, as lively vigour led:
But who I was, or where, or from what cause,
Knew not; to speak I tried, and forthwith spake;
My tongue obeyed, and readily could name
Whate'er I saw.  Thou Sun, said I, fair light,
And thou enlightened Earth, so fresh and gay,
Ye Hills, and Dales, ye Rivers, Woods, and Plains,
And ye that live and move, fair Creatures, tell,
Tell, if ye saw, how I came thus, how here?--
Not of myself;--by some great Maker then,
In goodness and in power pre-eminent:
Tell me, how may I know him, how adore,
From whom I have that thus I move and live,
And feel that I am happier than I know.--
While thus I called, and strayed I knew not whither,
From where I first drew air, and first beheld
This happy light; when, answer none returned,
On a green shady bank, profuse of flowers,
Pensive I sat me down:  There gentle sleep
First found me, and with soft oppression seised
My droused sense, untroubled, though I thought
I then was passing to my former state
Insensible, and forthwith to dissolve:
When suddenly stood at my head a dream,
Whose inward apparition gently moved
My fancy to believe I yet had being,
And lived:  One came, methought, of shape divine,
And said, 'Thy mansion wants thee, Adam; rise,
'First Man, of men innumerable ordained
'First Father! called by thee, I come thy guide
'To the garden of bliss, thy seat prepared.'
So saying, by the hand he took me raised,
And over fields and waters, as in air
Smooth-sliding without step, last led me up
A woody mountain; whose high top was plain,
A circuit wide, enclosed, with goodliest trees
Planted, with walks, and bowers; that what I saw
Of Earth before scarce pleasant seemed.  Each tree,
Loaden with fairest fruit that hung to the eye
Tempting, stirred in me sudden appetite
To pluck and eat; whereat I waked, and found
Before mine eyes all real, as the dream
Had lively shadowed:  Here had new begun
My wandering, had not he, who was my guide
Up hither, from among the trees appeared,
Presence Divine.  Rejoicing, but with awe,
In adoration at his feet I fell
Submiss:  He reared me, and 'Whom thou soughtest I am,'
Said mildly, 'Author of all this thou seest
'Above, or round about thee, or beneath.
'This Paradise I give thee, count it thine
'To till and keep, and of the fruit to eat:
'Of every tree that in the garden grows
'Eat freely with glad heart; fear here no dearth:
'But of the tree whose operation brings
'Knowledge of good and ill, which I have set
'The pledge of thy obedience and thy faith,
'Amid the garden by the tree of life,
'Remember what I warn thee, shun to taste,
'And shun the bitter consequence: for know,
'The day thou eatest thereof, my sole command
'Transgressed, inevitably thou shalt die,
'From that day mortal; and this happy state
'Shalt lose, expelled from hence into a world
'Of woe and sorrow.'  Sternly he pronounced
The rigid interdiction, which resounds
Yet dreadful in mine ear, though in my choice
Not to incur; but soon his clear aspect
Returned, and gracious purpose thus renewed.
'Not only these fair bounds, but all the Earth
'To thee and to thy race I give; as lords
'Possess it, and all things that therein live,
'Or live in sea, or air; beast, fish, and fowl.
'In sign whereof, each bird and beast behold
'After their kinds; I bring them to receive
'From thee their names, and pay thee fealty
'With low subjection; understand the same
'Of fish within their watery residence,
'Not hither summoned, since they cannot change
'Their element, to draw the thinner air.'
As thus he spake, each bird and beast behold
Approaching two and two; these cowering low
With blandishment; each bird stooped on his wing.
I named them, as they passed, and understood
Their nature, with such knowledge God endued
My sudden apprehension:  But in these
I found not what methought I wanted still;
And to the heavenly Vision thus presumed.
O, by what name, for thou above all these,
Above mankind, or aught than mankind higher,
Surpassest far my naming; how may I
Adore thee, Author of this universe,
And all this good to man? for whose well being
So amply, and with hands so liberal,
Thou hast provided all things:  But with me
I see not who partakes.  In solitude
What happiness, who can enjoy alone,
Or, all enjoying, what contentment find?
Thus I presumptuous; and the Vision bright,
As with a smile more brightened, thus replied.
What callest thou solitude?  Is not the Earth
With various living creatures, and the air
Replenished, and all these at thy command
To come and play before thee?  Knowest thou not
Their language and their ways?  They also know,
And reason not contemptibly:  With these
Find pastime, and bear rule; thy realm is large.
So spake the Universal Lord, and seemed
So ordering:  I, with leave of speech implored,
And humble deprecation, thus replied.
Let not my words offend thee, Heavenly Power;
My Maker, be propitious while I speak.
Hast thou not made me here thy substitute,
And these inferiour far beneath me set?
Among unequals what society
Can sort, what harmony, or true delight?
Which must be mutual, in proportion due
Given and received; but, in disparity
The one intense, the other still remiss,
Cannot well suit with either, but soon prove
Tedious alike:  Of fellowship I speak
Such as I seek, fit to participate
All rational delight: wherein the brute
Cannot be human consort:  They rejoice
Each with their kind, lion with lioness;
So fitly them in pairs thou hast combined:
Much less can bird with beast, or fish with fowl
So well converse, nor with the ox the ape;
Worse then can man with beast, and least of all.
Whereto the Almighty answered, not displeased.
A nice and subtle happiness, I see,
Thou to thyself proposest, in the choice
Of thy associates, Adam! and wilt taste
No pleasure, though in pleasure, solitary.
What thinkest thou then of me, and this my state?
Seem I to thee sufficiently possessed
Of happiness, or not? who am alone
From all eternity; for none I know
Second to me or like, equal much less.
How have I then with whom to hold converse,
Save with the creatures which I made, and those
To me inferiour, infinite descents
Beneath what other creatures are to thee?
He ceased; I lowly answered.  To attain
The highth and depth of thy eternal ways
All human thoughts come short, Supreme of things!
Thou in thyself art perfect, and in thee
Is no deficience found:  Not so is Man,
But in degree; the cause of his desire
By conversation with his like to help
Or solace his defects.  No need that thou
Shouldst propagate, already Infinite;
And through all numbers absolute, though One:
But Man by number is to manifest
His single imperfection, and beget
Like of his like, his image multiplied,
In unity defective; which requires
Collateral love, and dearest amity.
Thou in thy secresy although alone,
Best with thyself accompanied, seekest not
Social communication; yet, so pleased,
Canst raise thy creature to what highth thou wilt
Of union or communion, deified:
I, by conversing, cannot these erect
From prone; nor in their ways complacence find.
Thus I emboldened spake, and freedom used
Permissive, and acceptance found; which gained
This answer from the gracious Voice Divine.
Thus far to try thee, Adam, I was pleased;
And find thee knowing, not of beasts alone,
Which thou hast rightly named, but of thyself;
Expressing well the spirit within thee free,
My image, not imparted to the brute;
Whose fellowship therefore unmeet for thee
Good reason was thou freely shouldst dislike;
And be so minded still:  I, ere thou spakest,
Knew it not good for Man to be alone;
And no such company as then thou sawest
Intended thee; for trial only brought,
To see how thou couldest judge of fit and meet:
What next I bring shall please thee, be assured,
Thy likeness, thy fit help, thy other self,
Thy wish exactly to thy heart's desire.
He ended, or I heard no more; for now
My earthly by his heavenly overpowered,
Which it had long stood under, strained to the highth
In that celestial colloquy sublime,
As with an object that excels the sense
Dazzled and spent, sunk down; and sought repair
Of sleep, which instantly fell on me, called
By Nature as in aid, and closed mine eyes.
Mine eyes he closed, but open left the cell
Of fancy, my internal sight; by which,
Abstract as in a trance, methought I saw,
Though sleeping, where I lay, and saw the shape
Still glorious before whom awake I stood:
Who stooping opened my left side, and took
From thence a rib, with cordial spirits warm,
And life-blood streaming fresh; wide was the wound,
But suddenly with flesh filled up and healed:
The rib he formed and fashioned with his hands;
Under his forming hands a creature grew,
Man-like, but different sex; so lovely fair,
That what seemed fair in all the world, seemed now
Mean, or in her summed up, in her contained
And in her looks; which from that time infused
Sweetness into my heart, unfelt before,
And into all things from her air inspired
The spirit of love and amorous delight.
She disappeared, and left me dark; I waked
To find her, or for ever to deplore
Her loss, and other pleasures all abjure:
When out of hope, behold her, not far off,
Such as I saw her in my dream, adorned
With what all Earth or Heaven could bestow
To make her amiable:  On she came,
Led by her heavenly Maker, though unseen,
And guided by his voice; nor uninformed
Of nuptial sanctity, and marriage rites:
Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye,
In every gesture dignity and love.
I, overjoyed, could not forbear aloud.
This turn hath made amends; thou hast fulfilled
Thy words, Creator bounteous and benign,
Giver of all things fair! but fairest this
Of all thy gifts! nor enviest.  I now see
Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, myself
Before me:  Woman is her name;of Man
Extracted: for this cause he shall forego
Father and mother, and to his wife adhere;
And they shall be one flesh, one heart, one soul.
She heard me thus; and though divinely brought,
Yet innocence, and virgin modesty,
Her virtue, and the conscience of her worth,
That would be wooed, and not unsought be won,
Not obvious, not obtrusive, but, retired,
The more desirable; or, to say all,
Nature herself, though pure of sinful thought,
Wrought in her so, that, seeing me, she turned:
I followed her; she what was honour knew,
And with obsequious majesty approved
My pleaded reason.  To the nuptial bower
I led her blushing like the morn: All Heaven,
And happy constellations, on that hour
Shed their selectest influence; the Earth
Gave sign of gratulation, and each hill;
Joyous the birds; fresh gales and gentle airs
Whispered it to the woods, and from their wings
Flung rose, flung odours from the spicy shrub,
Disporting, till the amorous bird of night
Sung spousal, and bid haste the evening-star
On his hill top, to light the bridal lamp.
Thus have I told thee all my state, and brought
My story to the sum of earthly bliss,
Which I enjoy; and must confess to find
In all things else delight indeed, but such
As, used or not, works in the mind no change,
Nor vehement desire; these delicacies
I mean of taste, sight, smell, herbs, fruits, and flowers,
Walks, and the melody of birds: but here
Far otherwise, transported I behold,
Transported touch; here passion first I felt,
Commotion strange! in all enjoyments else
Superiour and unmoved; here only weak
Against the charm of Beauty's powerful glance.
Or Nature failed in me, and left some part
Not proof enough such object to sustain;
Or, from my side subducting, took perhaps
More than enough; at least on her bestowed
Too much of ornament, in outward show
Elaborate, of inward less exact.
For well I understand in the prime end
Of Nature her the inferiour, in the mind
And inward faculties, which most excel;
In outward also her resembling less
His image who made both, and less expressing
The character of that dominion given
O'er other creatures:  Yet when I approach
Her loveliness, so absolute she seems
And in herself complete, so well to know
Her own, that what she wills to do or say,
Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best:
All higher knowledge in her presence falls
Degraded;  Wisdom in discourse with her
Loses discountenanced, and like Folly shows;
Authority and Reason on her wait,
As one intended first, not after made
Occasionally; and, to consummate all,
Greatness of mind and Nobleness their seat
Build in her loveliest, and create an awe
About her, as a guard angelick placed.
To whom the Angel with contracted brow.
Accuse not Nature, she hath done her part;
Do thou but thine; and be not diffident
Of Wisdom; she deserts thee not, if thou
Dismiss not her, when most thou needest her nigh,
By attributing overmuch to things
Less excellent, as thou thyself perceivest.
For, what admirest thou, what transports thee so,
An outside? fair, no doubt, and worthy well
Thy cherishing, thy honouring, and thy love;
Not thy subjection:  Weigh with her thyself;
Then value:  Oft-times nothing profits more
Than self-esteem, grounded on just and right
Well managed; of that skill the more thou knowest,
The more she will acknowledge thee her head,
And to realities yield all her shows:
Made so adorn for thy delight the more,
So awful, that with honour thou mayest love
Thy mate, who sees when thou art seen least wise.
But if the sense of touch, whereby mankind
Is propagated, seem such dear delight
Beyond all other; think the same vouchsafed
To cattle and each beast; which would not be
To them made common and divulged, if aught
Therein enjoyed were worthy to subdue
The soul of man, or passion in him move.
What higher in her society thou findest
Attractive, human, rational, love still;
In loving thou dost well, in passion not,
Wherein true love consists not:  Love refines
The thoughts, and heart enlarges; hath his seat
In reason, and is judicious; is the scale
By which to heavenly love thou mayest ascend,
Not sunk in carnal pleasure; for which cause,
Among the beasts no mate for thee was found.
To whom thus, half abashed, Adam replied.
Neither her outside formed so fair, nor aught
In procreation common to all kinds,
(Though higher of the genial bed by far,
And with mysterious reverence I deem,)
So much delights me, as those graceful acts,
Those thousand decencies, that daily flow
From all her words and actions mixed with love
And sweet compliance, which declare unfeigned
Union of mind, or in us both one soul;
Harmony to behold in wedded pair
More grateful than harmonious sound to the ear.
Yet these subject not; I to thee disclose
What inward thence I feel, not therefore foiled,
Who meet with various objects, from the sense
Variously representing; yet, still free,
Approve the best, and follow what I approve.
To love, thou blamest me not; for Love, thou sayest,
Leads up to Heaven, is both the way and guide;
Bear with me then, if lawful what I ask:
Love not the heavenly Spirits, and how their love
Express they? by looks only? or do they mix
Irradiance, virtual or immediate touch?
To whom the Angel, with a smile that glowed
Celestial rosy red, Love's proper hue,
Answered.  Let it suffice thee that thou knowest
Us happy, and without love no happiness.
Whatever pure thou in the body enjoyest,
(And pure thou wert created) we enjoy
In eminence; and obstacle find none
Of membrane, joint, or limb, exclusive bars;
Easier than air with air, if Spirits embrace,
Total they mix, union of pure with pure
Desiring, nor restrained conveyance need,
As flesh to mix with flesh, or soul with soul.
But I can now no more; the parting sun
Beyond the Earth's green Cape and verdant Isles
Hesperian sets, my signal to depart.
Be strong, live happy, and love!  But, first of all,
Him, whom to love is to obey, and keep
His great command; take heed lest passion sway
Thy judgement to do aught, which else free will
Would not admit: thine, and of all thy sons,
The weal or woe in thee is placed; beware!
I in thy persevering shall rejoice,
And all the Blest:  Stand fast;to stand or fall
Free in thine own arbitrement it lies.
Perfect within, no outward aid require;
And all temptation to transgress repel.
So saying, he arose; whom Adam thus
Followed with benediction.  Since to part,
Go, heavenly guest, ethereal Messenger,
Sent from whose sovran goodness I adore!
Gentle to me and affable hath been
Thy condescension, and shall be honoured ever
With grateful memory:  Thou to mankind
Be good and friendly still, and oft return!
So parted they; the Angel up to Heaven
From the thick shade, and Adam to his bower.
No more of talk where God or Angel guest
With Man, as with his friend, familiar us'd,
To sit indulgent, and with him partake
Rural repast; permitting him the while
Venial discourse unblam'd. I now must change
Those notes to tragick; foul distrust, and breach
Disloyal on the part of Man, revolt,
And disobedience: on the part of Heaven
Now alienated, distance and distaste,
Anger and just rebuke, and judgement given,
That brought into this world a world of woe,
Sin and her shadow Death, and Misery
Death's harbinger: Sad talk!yet argument
Not less but more heroick than the wrath
Of stern Achilles on his foe pursued
Thrice fugitive about Troy wall; or rage
Of Turnus for Lavinia disespous'd;
Or Neptune's ire, or Juno's, that so long
Perplexed the Greek, and Cytherea's son:
If answerable style I can obtain
Of my celestial patroness, who deigns
Her nightly visitation unimplor'd,
And dictates to me slumbering; or inspires
Easy my unpremeditated verse:
Since first this subject for heroick song
Pleas'd me long choosing, and beginning late;
Not sedulous by nature to indite
Wars, hitherto the only argument
Heroick deem'd chief mastery to dissect
With long and tedious havock fabled knights
In battles feign'd; the better fortitude
Of patience and heroick martyrdom
Unsung; or to describe races and games,
Or tilting furniture, imblazon'd shields,
Impresses quaint, caparisons and steeds,
Bases and tinsel trappings, gorgeous knights
At joust and tournament; then marshall'd feast
Serv'd up in hall with sewers and seneshals;
The skill of artifice or office mean,
Not that which justly gives heroick name
To person, or to poem.  Me, of these
Nor skill'd nor studious, higher argument
Remains; sufficient of itself to raise
That name, unless an age too late, or cold
Climate, or years, damp my intended wing
Depress'd; and much they may, if all be mine,
Not hers, who brings it nightly to my ear.
The sun was sunk, and after him the star
Of Hesperus, whose office is to bring
Twilight upon the earth, short arbiter
"twixt day and night, and now from end to end
Night's hemisphere had veil'd the horizon round:
When satan, who late fled before the threats
Of Gabriel out of Eden, now improv'd
In meditated fraud and malice, bent
On Man's destruction, maugre what might hap
Of heavier on himself, fearless returned
From compassing the earth; cautious of day,
Since Uriel, regent of the sun, descried
His entrance, and foreworned the Cherubim
That kept their watch; thence full of anguish driven,
The space of seven continued nights he rode
With darkness; thrice the equinoctial line
He circled; four times crossed the car of night
From pole to pole, traversing each colure;
On the eighth returned; and, on the coast averse
From entrance or Cherubick watch, by stealth
Found unsuspected way.  There was a place,
Now not, though sin, not time, first wrought the change,
Where Tigris, at the foot of Paradise,
Into a gulf shot under ground, till part
Rose up a fountain by the tree of life:
In with the river sunk, and with it rose
Satan, involved in rising mist; then sought
Where to lie hid; sea he had searched, and land,
From Eden over Pontus and the pool
Maeotis, up beyond the river Ob;
Downward as far antarctick; and in length,
West from Orontes to the ocean barred
At Darien ; thence to the land where flows
Ganges and Indus: Thus the orb he roamed
With narrow search; and with inspection deep
Considered every creature, which of all
Most opportune might serve his wiles; and found
The Serpent subtlest beast of all the field.
Him after long debate, irresolute
Of thoughts revolved, his final sentence chose
Fit vessel, fittest imp of fraud, in whom
To enter, and his dark suggestions hide
From sharpest sight: for, in the wily snake
Whatever sleights, none would suspicious mark,
As from his wit and native subtlety
Proceeding; which, in other beasts observed,
Doubt might beget of diabolick power
Active within, beyond the sense of brute.
Thus he resolved, but first from inward grief
His bursting passion into plaints thus poured.
More justly, seat worthier of Gods, as built
With second thoughts, reforming what was old!
O Earth, how like to Heaven, if not preferred
For what God, after better, worse would build?
Terrestrial Heaven, danced round by other Heavens
That shine, yet bear their bright officious lamps,
Light above light, for thee alone, as seems,
In thee concentring all their precious beams
Of sacred influence!  As God in Heaven
Is center, yet extends to all; so thou,
Centring, receivest from all those orbs: in thee,
Not in themselves, all their known virtue appears
Productive in herb, plant, and nobler birth
Of creatures animate with gradual life
Of growth, sense, reason, all summed up in Man.
With what delight could I have walked thee round,
If I could joy in aught, sweet interchange
Of hill, and valley, rivers, woods, and plains,
Now land, now sea and shores with forest crowned,
Rocks, dens, and caves!  But I in none of these
Find place or refuge; and the more I see
Pleasures about me, so much more I feel
Torment within me, as from the hateful siege
Of contraries: all good to me becomes
Bane, and in Heaven much worse would be my state.
But neither here seek I, no nor in Heaven
To dwell, unless by mastering Heaven's Supreme;
Nor hope to be myself less miserable
By what I seek, but others to make such
As I, though thereby worse to me redound:
For only in destroying I find ease
To my relentless thoughts; and, him destroyed,
Or won to what may work his utter loss,
For whom all this was made, all this will soon
Follow, as to him linked in weal or woe;
In woe then; that destruction wide may range:
To me shall be the glory sole among
The infernal Powers, in one day to have marred
What he, Almighty styled, six nights and days
Continued making; and who knows how long
Before had been contriving? though perhaps
Not longer than since I, in one night, freed
From servitude inglorious well nigh half
The angelick name, and thinner left the throng
Of his adorers: He, to be avenged,
And to repair his numbers thus impaired,
Whether such virtue spent of old now failed
More Angels to create, if they at least
Are his created, or, to spite us more,
Determined to advance into our room
A creature formed of earth, and him endow,
Exalted from so base original,
With heavenly spoils, our spoils: What he decreed,
He effected; Man he made, and for him built
Magnificent this world, and earth his seat,
Him lord pronounced; and, O indignity!
Subjected to his service angel-wings,
And flaming ministers to watch and tend
Their earthly charge: Of these the vigilance
I dread; and, to elude, thus wrapt in mist
Of midnight vapour glide obscure, and pry
In every bush and brake, where hap may find
The serpent sleeping; in whose mazy folds
To hide me, and the dark intent I bring.
O foul descent! that I, who erst contended
With Gods to sit the highest, am now constrained
Into a beast; and, mixed with bestial slime,
This essence to incarnate and imbrute,
That to the highth of Deity aspired!
But what will not ambition and revenge
Descend to?  Who aspires, must down as low
As high he soared; obnoxious, first or last,
To basest things.  Revenge, at first though sweet,
Bitter ere long, back on itself recoils:
Let it; I reck not, so it light well aimed,
Since higher I fall short, on him who next
Provokes my envy, this new favourite
Of Heaven, this man of clay, son of despite,
Whom, us the more to spite, his Maker raised
From dust: Spite then with spite is best repaid.
So saying, through each thicket dank or dry,
Like a black mist low-creeping, he held on
His midnight-search, where soonest he might find
The serpent; him fast-sleeping soon he found
In labyrinth of many a round self-rolled,
His head the midst, well stored with subtile wiles:
Not yet in horrid shade or dismal den,
Nor nocent yet; but, on the grassy herb,
Fearless unfeared he slept: in at his mouth
The Devil entered; and his brutal sense,
In heart or head, possessing, soon inspired
With act intelligential; but his sleep
Disturbed not, waiting close the approach of morn.
Now, when as sacred light began to dawn
In Eden on the humid flowers, that breathed
Their morning incense, when all things, that breathe,
From the Earth's great altar send up silent praise
To the Creator, and his nostrils fill
With grateful smell, forth came the human pair,
And joined their vocal worship to the quire
Of creatures wanting voice; that done, partake
The season prime for sweetest scents and airs:
Then commune, how that day they best may ply
Their growing work: for much their work out-grew
The hands' dispatch of two gardening so wide,
And Eve first to her husband thus began.
Adam, well may we labour still to dress
This garden, still to tend plant, herb, and flower,
Our pleasant task enjoined; but, till more hands
Aid us, the work under our labour grows,
Luxurious by restraint; what we by day
Lop overgrown, or prune, or prop, or bind,
One night or two with wanton growth derides
Tending to wild.  Thou therefore now advise,
Or bear what to my mind first thoughts present:
Let us divide our labours; thou, where choice
Leads thee, or where most needs, whether to wind
The woodbine round this arbour, or direct
The clasping ivy where to climb; while I,
In yonder spring of roses intermixed
With myrtle, find what to redress till noon:
For, while so near each other thus all day
Our task we choose, what wonder if so near
Looks intervene and smiles, or object new
Casual discourse draw on; which intermits
Our day's work, brought to little, though begun
Early, and the hour of supper comes unearned?
To whom mild answer Adam thus returned.
Sole Eve, associate sole, to me beyond
Compare above all living creatures dear!
Well hast thou motioned, well thy thoughts employed,
How we might best fulfil the work which here
God hath assigned us; nor of me shalt pass
Unpraised: for nothing lovelier can be found
In woman, than to study houshold good,
And good works in her husband to promote.
Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed
Labour, as to debar us when we need
Refreshment, whether food, or talk between,
Food of the mind, or this sweet intercourse
Of looks and smiles; for smiles from reason flow,
To brute denied, and are of love the food;
Love, not the lowest end of human life.
For not to irksome toil, but to delight,
He made us, and delight to reason joined.
These paths and bowers doubt not but our joint hands
Will keep from wilderness with ease, as wide
As we need walk, till younger hands ere long
Assist us; But, if much converse perhaps
Thee satiate, to short absence I could yield:
For solitude sometimes is best society,
And short retirement urges sweet return.
But other doubt possesses me, lest harm
Befall thee severed from me; for thou knowest
What hath been warned us, what malicious foe
Envying our happiness, and of his own
Despairing, seeks to work us woe and shame
By sly assault; and somewhere nigh at hand
Watches, no doubt, with greedy hope to find
His wish and best advantage, us asunder;
Hopeless to circumvent us joined, where each
To other speedy aid might lend at need:
Whether his first design be to withdraw
Our fealty from God, or to disturb
Conjugal love, than which perhaps no bliss
Enjoyed by us excites his envy more;
Or this, or worse, leave not the faithful side
That gave thee being, still shades thee, and protects.
The wife, where danger or dishonour lurks,
Safest and seemliest by her husband stays,
Who guards her, or with her the worst endures.
To whom the virgin majesty of Eve,
As one who loves, and some unkindness meets,
With sweet austere composure thus replied.
Offspring of Heaven and Earth, and all Earth's Lord!
That such an enemy we have, who seeks
Our ruin, both by thee informed I learn,
And from the parting Angel over-heard,
As in a shady nook I stood behind,
Just then returned at shut of evening flowers.
But, that thou shouldst my firmness therefore doubt
To God or thee, because we have a foe
May tempt it, I expected not to hear.
His violence thou fearest not, being such
As we, not capable of death or pain,
Can either not receive, or can repel.
His fraud is then thy fear; which plain infers
Thy equal fear, that my firm faith and love
Can by his fraud be shaken or seduced;
Thoughts, which how found they harbour in thy breast,
Adam, mis-thought of her to thee so dear?
To whom with healing words Adam replied.
Daughter of God and Man, immortal Eve!
For such thou art; from sin and blame entire:
Not diffident of thee do I dissuade
Thy absence from my sight, but to avoid
The attempt itself, intended by our foe.
For he who tempts, though in vain, at least asperses
The tempted with dishonour foul; supposed
Not incorruptible of faith, not proof
Against temptation: Thou thyself with scorn
And anger wouldst resent the offered wrong,
Though ineffectual found: misdeem not then,
If such affront I labour to avert
From thee alone, which on us both at once
The enemy, though bold, will hardly dare;
Or daring, first on me the assault shall light.
Nor thou his malice and false guile contemn;
Subtle he needs must be, who could seduce
Angels; nor think superfluous other's aid.
I, from the influence of thy looks, receive
Access in every virtue; in thy sight
More wise, more watchful, stronger, if need were
Of outward strength; while shame, thou looking on,
Shame to be overcome or over-reached,
Would utmost vigour raise, and raised unite.
Why shouldst not thou like sense within thee feel
When I am present, and thy trial choose
With me, best witness of thy virtue tried?
So spake domestick Adam in his care
And matrimonial love; but Eve, who thought
Less attributed to her faith sincere,
Thus her reply with accent sweet renewed.
If this be our condition, thus to dwell
In narrow circuit straitened by a foe,
Subtle or violent, we not endued
Single with like defence, wherever met;
How are we happy, still in fear of harm?
But harm precedes not sin: only our foe,
Tempting, affronts us with his foul esteem
Of our integrity: his foul esteem
Sticks no dishonour on our front, but turns
Foul on himself; then wherefore shunned or feared
By us? who rather double honour gain
From his surmise proved false; find peace within,
Favour from Heaven, our witness, from the event.
And what is faith, love, virtue, unassayed
Alone, without exteriour help sustained?
Let us not then suspect our happy state
Left so imperfect by the Maker wise,
As not secure to single or combined.
Frail is our happiness, if this be so,
And Eden were no Eden, thus exposed.
To whom thus Adam fervently replied.
O Woman, best are all things as the will
Of God ordained them: His creating hand
Nothing imperfect or deficient left
Of all that he created, much less Man,
Or aught that might his happy state secure,
Secure from outward force; within himself
The danger lies, yet lies within his power:
Against his will he can receive no harm.
But God left free the will; for what obeys
Reason, is free; and Reason he made right,
But bid her well be ware, and still erect;
Lest, by some fair-appearing good surprised,
She dictate false; and mis-inform the will
To do what God expressly hath forbid.
Not then mistrust, but tender love, enjoins,
That I should mind thee oft; and mind thou me.
Firm we subsist, yet possible to swerve;
Since Reason not impossibly may meet
Some specious object by the foe suborned,
And fall into deception unaware,
Not keeping strictest watch, as she was warned.
Seek not temptation then, which to avoid
Were better, and most likely if from me
Thou sever not: Trial will come unsought.
Wouldst thou approve thy constancy, approve
First thy obedience; the other who can know,
Not seeing thee attempted, who attest?
But, if thou think, trial unsought may find
Us both securer than thus warned thou seemest,
Go; for thy stay, not free, absents thee more;
Go in thy native innocence, rely
On what thou hast of virtue; summon all!
For God towards thee hath done his part, do thine.
So spake the patriarch of mankind; but Eve
Persisted; yet submiss, though last, replied.
With thy permission then, and thus forewarned
Chiefly by what thy own last reasoning words
Touched only; that our trial, when least sought,
May find us both perhaps far less prepared,
The willinger I go, nor much expect
A foe so proud will first the weaker seek;
So bent, the more shall shame him his repulse.
Thus saying, from her husband's hand her hand
Soft she withdrew; and, like a Wood-Nymph light,
Oread or Dryad, or of Delia's train,
Betook her to the groves; but Delia's self
In gait surpassed, and Goddess-like deport,
Though not as she with bow and quiver armed,
But with such gardening tools as Art yet rude,
Guiltless of fire, had formed, or Angels brought.
To Pales, or Pomona, thus adorned,
Likest she seemed, Pomona when she fled
Vertumnus, or to Ceres in her prime,
Yet virgin of Proserpina from Jove.
Her long with ardent look his eye pursued
Delighted, but desiring more her stay.
Oft he to her his charge of quick return
Repeated; she to him as oft engaged
To be returned by noon amid the bower,
And all things in best order to invite
Noontide repast, or afternoon's repose.
O much deceived, much failing, hapless Eve,
Of thy presumed return! event perverse!
Thou never from that hour in Paradise
Foundst either sweet repast, or sound repose;
Such ambush, hid among sweet flowers and shades,
Waited with hellish rancour imminent
To intercept thy way, or send thee back
Despoiled of innocence, of faith, of bliss!
For now, and since first break of dawn, the Fiend,
Mere serpent in appearance, forth was come;
And on his quest, where likeliest he might find
The only two of mankind, but in them
The whole included race, his purposed prey.
In bower and field he sought, where any tuft
Of grove or garden-plot more pleasant lay,
Their tendance, or plantation for delight;
By fountain or by shady rivulet
He sought them both, but wished his hap might find
Eve separate; he wished, but not with hope
Of what so seldom chanced; when to his wish,
Beyond his hope, Eve separate he spies,
Veiled in a cloud of fragrance, where she stood,
Half spied, so thick the roses blushing round
About her glowed, oft stooping to support
Each flower of slender stalk, whose head, though gay
Carnation, purple, azure, or specked with gold,
Hung drooping unsustained; them she upstays
Gently with myrtle band, mindless the while
Herself, though fairest unsupported flower,
From her best prop so far, and storm so nigh.
Nearer he drew, and many a walk traversed
Of stateliest covert, cedar, pine, or palm;
Then voluble and bold, now hid, now seen,
Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers
Imbordered on each bank, the hand of Eve:
Spot more delicious than those gardens feigned
Or of revived Adonis, or renowned
Alcinous, host of old Laertes' son;
Or that, not mystick, where the sapient king
Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse.
Much he the place admired, the person more.
As one who long in populous city pent,
Where houses thick and sewers annoy the air,
Forth issuing on a summer's morn, to breathe
Among the pleasant villages and farms
Adjoined, from each thing met conceives delight;
The smell of grain, or tedded grass, or kine,
Or dairy, each rural sight, each rural sound;
If chance, with nymph-like step, fair virgin pass,
What pleasing seemed, for her now pleases more;
She most, and in her look sums all delight:
Such pleasure took the Serpent to behold
This flowery plat, the sweet recess of Eve
Thus early, thus alone: Her heavenly form
Angelick, but more soft, and feminine,
Her graceful innocence, her every air
Of gesture, or least action, overawed
His malice, and with rapine sweet bereaved
His fierceness of the fierce intent it brought:
That space the Evil-one abstracted stood
From his own evil, and for the time remained
Stupidly good; of enmity disarmed,
Of guile, of hate, of envy, of revenge:
But the hot Hell that always in him burns,
Though in mid Heaven, soon ended his delight,
And tortures him now more, the more he sees
Of pleasure, not for him ordained: then soon
Fierce hate he recollects, and all his thoughts
Of mischief, gratulating, thus excites.
Thoughts, whither have ye led me! with what sweet
Compulsion thus transported, to forget
What hither brought us! hate, not love;nor hope
Of Paradise for Hell, hope here to taste
Of pleasure; but all pleasure to destroy,
Save what is in destroying; other joy
To me is lost.  Then, let me not let pass
Occasion which now smiles; behold alone
The woman, opportune to all attempts,
Her husband, for I view far round, not nigh,
Whose higher intellectual more I shun,
And strength, of courage haughty, and of limb
Heroick built, though of terrestrial mould;
Foe not informidable! exempt from wound,
I not; so much hath Hell debased, and pain
Enfeebled me, to what I was in Heaven.
She fair, divinely fair, fit love for Gods!
Not terrible, though terrour be in love
And beauty, not approached by stronger hate,
Hate stronger, under show of love well feigned;
The way which to her ruin now I tend.
So spake the enemy of mankind, enclosed
In serpent, inmate bad! and toward Eve
Addressed his way: not with indented wave,
Prone on the ground, as since; but on his rear,
Circular base of rising folds, that towered
Fold above fold, a surging maze! his head
Crested aloft, and carbuncle his eyes;
With burnished neck of verdant gold, erect
Amidst his circling spires, that on the grass
Floated redundant: pleasing was his shape
And lovely; never since of serpent-kind
Lovelier, not those that in Illyria changed,
Hermione and Cadmus, or the god
In Epidaurus; nor to which transformed
Ammonian Jove, or Capitoline, was seen;
He with Olympias; this with her who bore
Scipio, the highth of Rome.  With tract oblique
At first, as one who sought access, but feared
To interrupt, side-long he works his way.
As when a ship, by skilful steersmen wrought
Nigh river's mouth or foreland, where the wind
Veers oft, as oft so steers, and shifts her sail:
So varied he, and of his tortuous train
Curled many a wanton wreath in sight of Eve,
To lure her eye; she, busied, heard the sound
Of rusling leaves, but minded not, as used
To such disport before her through the field,
From every beast; more duteous at her call,
Than at Circean call the herd disguised.
He, bolder now, uncalled before her stood,
But as in gaze admiring: oft he bowed
His turret crest, and sleek enamelled neck,
Fawning; and licked the ground whereon she trod.
His gentle dumb expression turned at length
The eye of Eve to mark his play; he, glad
Of her attention gained, with serpent-tongue
Organick, or impulse of vocal air,
His fraudulent temptation thus began.
Wonder not, sovran Mistress, if perhaps
Thou canst, who art sole wonder! much less arm
Thy looks, the Heaven of mildness, with disdain,
Displeased that I approach thee thus, and gaze
Insatiate; I thus single;nor have feared
Thy awful brow, more awful thus retired.
Fairest resemblance of thy Maker fair,
Thee all things living gaze on, all things thine
By gift, and thy celestial beauty adore
With ravishment beheld! there best beheld,
Where universally admired; but here
In this enclosure wild, these beasts among,
Beholders rude, and shallow to discern
Half what in thee is fair, one man except,
Who sees thee? and what is one? who should be seen
A Goddess among Gods, adored and served
By Angels numberless, thy daily train.
So glozed the Tempter, and his proem tuned:
Into the heart of Eve his words made way,
Though at the voice much marvelling; at length,
Not unamazed, she thus in answer spake.
What may this mean? language of man pronounced
By tongue of brute, and human sense expressed?
The first, at least, of these I thought denied
To beasts; whom God, on their creation-day,
Created mute to all articulate sound:
The latter I demur; for in their looks
Much reason, and in their actions, oft appears.
Thee, Serpent, subtlest beast of all the field
I knew, but not with human voice endued;
Redouble then this miracle, and say,
How camest thou speakable of mute, and how
To me so friendly grown above the rest
Of brutal kind, that daily are in sight?
Say, for such wonder claims attention due.
To whom the guileful Tempter thus replied.
Empress of this fair world, resplendent Eve!
Easy to me it is to tell thee all
What thou commandest; and right thou shouldst be obeyed:
I was at first as other beasts that graze
The trodden herb, of abject thoughts and low,
As was my food; nor aught but food discerned
Or sex, and apprehended nothing high:
Till, on a day roving the field, I chanced
A goodly tree far distant to behold
Loaden with fruit of fairest colours mixed,
Ruddy and gold: I nearer drew to gaze;
When from the boughs a savoury odour blown,
Grateful to appetite, more pleased my sense
Than smell of sweetest fennel, or the teats
Of ewe or goat dropping with milk at even,
Unsucked of lamb or kid, that tend their play.
To satisfy the sharp desire I had
Of tasting those fair apples, I resolved
Not to defer; hunger and thirst at once,
Powerful persuaders, quickened at the scent
Of that alluring fruit, urged me so keen.
About the mossy trunk I wound me soon;
For, high from ground, the branches would require
Thy utmost reach or Adam's: Round the tree
All other beasts that saw, with like desire
Longing and envying stood, but could not reach.
Amid the tree now got, where plenty hung
Tempting so nigh, to pluck and eat my fill
I spared not; for, such pleasure till that hour,
At feed or fountain, never had I found.
Sated at length, ere long I might perceive
Strange alteration in me, to degree
Of reason in my inward powers; and speech
Wanted not long; though to this shape retained.
Thenceforth to speculations high or deep
I turned my thoughts, and with capacious mind
Considered all things visible in Heaven,
Or Earth, or Middle; all things fair and good:
But all that fair and good in thy divine
Semblance, and in thy beauty's heavenly ray,
United I beheld; no fair to thine
Equivalent or second! which compelled
Me thus, though importune perhaps, to come
And gaze, and worship thee of right declared
Sovran of creatures, universal Dame!
So talked the spirited sly Snake; and Eve,
Yet more amazed, unwary thus replied.
Serpent, thy overpraising leaves in doubt
The virtue of that fruit, in thee first proved:
But say, where grows the tree? from hence how far?
For many are the trees of God that grow
In Paradise, and various, yet unknown
To us; in such abundance lies our choice,
As leaves a greater store of fruit untouched,
Still hanging incorruptible, till men
Grow up to their provision, and more hands
Help to disburden Nature of her birth.
To whom the wily Adder, blithe and glad.
Empress, the way is ready, and not long;
Beyond a row of myrtles, on a flat,
Fast by a fountain, one small thicket past
Of blowing myrrh and balm: if thou accept
My conduct, I can bring thee thither soon
Lead then, said Eve.  He, leading, swiftly rolled
In tangles, and made intricate seem straight,
To mischief swift.  Hope elevates, and joy
Brightens his crest; as when a wandering fire,
Compact of unctuous vapour, which the night
Condenses, and the cold environs round,
Kindled through agitation to a flame,
Which oft, they say, some evil Spirit attends,
Hovering and blazing with delusive light,
Misleads the amazed night-wanderer from his way
To bogs and mires, and oft through pond or pool;
There swallowed up and lost, from succour far.
So glistered the dire Snake, and into fraud
Led Eve, our credulous mother, to the tree
Of prohibition, root of all our woe;
Which when she saw, thus to her guide she spake.
Serpent, we might have spared our coming hither,
Fruitless to me, though fruit be here to excess,
The credit of whose virtue rest with thee;
Wonderous indeed, if cause of such effects.
But of this tree we may not taste nor touch;
God so commanded, and left that command
Sole daughter of his voice; the rest, we live
Law to ourselves; our reason is our law.
To whom the Tempter guilefully replied.
Indeed! hath God then said that of the fruit
Of all these garden-trees ye shall not eat,
Yet Lords declared of all in earth or air$?
To whom thus Eve, yet sinless.  Of the fruit
Of each tree in the garden we may eat;
But of the fruit of this fair tree amidst
The garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat
Thereof, nor shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
She scarce had said, though brief, when now more bold
The Tempter, but with show of zeal and love
To Man, and indignation at his wrong,
New part puts on; and, as to passion moved,
Fluctuates disturbed, yet comely and in act
Raised, as of some great matter to begin.
As when of old some orator renowned,
In Athens or free Rome, where eloquence
Flourished, since mute! to some great cause addressed,
Stood in himself collected; while each part,
Motion, each act, won audience ere the tongue;
Sometimes in highth began, as no delay
Of preface brooking, through his zeal of right:
So standing, moving, or to highth up grown,
The Tempter, all impassioned, thus began.
O sacred, wise, and wisdom-giving Plant,
Mother of science! now I feel thy power
Within me clear; not only to discern
Things in their causes, but to trace the ways
Of highest agents, deemed however wise.
Queen of this universe! do not believe
Those rigid threats of death: ye shall not die:
How should you? by the fruit? it gives you life
To knowledge; by the threatener? look on me,
Me, who have touched and tasted; yet both live,
And life more perfect have attained than Fate
Meant me, by venturing higher than my lot.
Shall that be shut to Man, which to the Beast
Is open? or will God incense his ire
For such a petty trespass? and not praise
Rather your dauntless virtue, whom the pain
Of death denounced, whatever thing death be,
Deterred not from achieving what might lead
To happier life, knowledge of good and evil;
Of good, how just? of evil, if what is evil
Be real, why not known, since easier shunned?
God therefore cannot hurt ye, and be just;
Not just, not God; not feared then, nor obeyed:
Your fear itself of death removes the fear.
Why then was this forbid?  Why, but to awe;
Why, but to keep ye low and ignorant,
His worshippers?  He knows that in the day
Ye eat thereof, your eyes that seem so clear,
Yet are but dim, shall perfectly be then
Opened and cleared, and ye shall be as Gods,
Knowing both good and evil, as they know.
That ye shall be as Gods, since I as Man,
Internal Man, is but proportion meet;
I, of brute, human; ye, of human, Gods.
So ye shall die perhaps, by putting off
Human, to put on Gods; death to be wished,
Though threatened, which no worse than this can bring.
And what are Gods, that Man may not become
As they, participating God-like food?
The Gods are first, and that advantage use
On our belief, that all from them proceeds:
I question it; for this fair earth I see,
Warmed by the sun, producing every kind;
Them, nothing: if they all things, who enclosed
Knowledge of good and evil in this tree,
That whoso eats thereof, forthwith attains
Wisdom without their leave? and wherein lies
The offence, that Man should thus attain to know?
What can your knowledge hurt him, or this tree
Impart against his will, if all be his?
Or is it envy? and can envy dwell
In heavenly breasts?  These, these, and many more
Causes import your need of this fair fruit.
Goddess humane, reach then, and freely taste!
He ended; and his words, replete with guile,
Into her heart too easy entrance won:
Fixed on the fruit she gazed, which to behold
Might tempt alone; and in her ears the sound
Yet rung of his persuasive words, impregned
With reason, to her seeming, and with truth:
Mean while the hour of noon drew on, and waked
An eager appetite, raised by the smell
So savoury of that fruit, which with desire,
Inclinable now grown to touch or taste,
Solicited her longing eye; yet first
Pausing a while, thus to herself she mused.
Great are thy virtues, doubtless, best of fruits,
Though kept from man, and worthy to be admired;
Whose taste, too long forborn, at first assay
Gave elocution to the mute, and taught
The tongue not made for speech to speak thy praise:
Thy praise he also, who forbids thy use,
Conceals not from us, naming thee the tree
Of knowledge, knowledge both of good and evil;
Forbids us then to taste! but his forbidding
Commends thee more, while it infers the good
By thee communicated, and our want:
For good unknown sure is not had; or, had
And yet unknown, is as not had at all.
In plain then, what forbids he but to know,
Forbids us good, forbids us to be wise?
Such prohibitions bind not.  But, if death
Bind us with after-bands, what profits then
Our inward freedom?  In the day we eat
Of this fair fruit, our doom is, we shall die!
How dies the Serpent? he hath eaten and lives,
And knows, and speaks, and reasons, and discerns,
Irrational till then.  For us alone
Was death invented? or to us denied
This intellectual food, for beasts reserved?
For beasts it seems: yet that one beast which first
Hath tasted envies not, but brings with joy
The good befallen him, author unsuspect,
Friendly to man, far from deceit or guile.
What fear I then? rather, what know to fear
Under this ignorance of good and evil,
Of God or death, of law or penalty?
Here grows the cure of all, this fruit divine,
Fair to the eye, inviting to the taste,
Of virtue to make wise:  What hinders then
To reach, and feed at once both body and mind?
So saying, her rash hand in evil hour
Forth reaching to the fruit, she plucked, she eat!
Earth felt the wound; and Nature from her seat,
Sighing through all her works, gave signs of woe,
That all was lost.  Back to the thicket slunk
The guilty Serpent; and well might;for Eve,
Intent now wholly on her taste, nought else
Regarded; such delight till then, as seemed,
In fruit she never tasted, whether true
Or fancied so, through expectation high
Of knowledge; not was Godhead from her thought.
Greedily she ingorged without restraint,
And knew not eating death:  Satiate at length,
And hightened as with wine, jocund and boon,
Thus to herself she pleasingly began.
O sovran, virtuous, precious of all trees
In Paradise! of operation blest
To sapience, hitherto obscured, infamed.
And thy fair fruit let hang, as to no end
Created; but henceforth my early care,
Not without song, each morning, and due praise,
Shall tend thee, and the fertile burden ease
Of thy full branches offered free to all;
Till, dieted by thee, I grow mature
In knowledge, as the Gods, who all things know;
Though others envy what they cannot give:
For, had the gift been theirs, it had not here
Thus grown.  Experience, next, to thee I owe,
Best guide; not following thee, I had remained
In ignorance; thou openest wisdom's way,
And givest access, though secret she retire.
And I perhaps am secret: Heaven is high,
High, and remote to see from thence distinct
Each thing on Earth; and other care perhaps
May have diverted from continual watch
Our great Forbidder, safe with all his spies
About him.  But to Adam in what sort
Shall I appear? shall I to him make known
As yet my change, and give him to partake
Full happiness with me, or rather not,
But keeps the odds of knowledge in my power
Without copartner? so to add what wants
In female sex, the more to draw his love,
And render me more equal; and perhaps,
A thing not undesirable, sometime
Superiour; for, inferiour, who is free
This may be well:  But what if God have seen,
And death ensue? then I shall be no more!
And Adam, wedded to another Eve,
Shall live with her enjoying, I extinct;
A death to think!  Confirmed then I resolve,
Adam shall share with me in bliss or woe:
So dear I love him, that with him all deaths
I could endure, without him live no life.
So saying, from the tree her step she turned;
But first low reverence done, as to the Power
That dwelt within, whose presence had infused
Into the plant sciential sap, derived
From nectar, drink of Gods.  Adam the while,
Waiting desirous her return, had wove
Of choicest flowers a garland, to adorn
Her tresses, and her rural labours crown;
As reapers oft are wont their harvest-queen.
Great joy he promised to his thoughts, and new
Solace in her return, so long delayed:
Yet oft his heart, divine of something ill,
Misgave him; he the faltering measure felt;
And forth to meet her went, the way she took
That morn when first they parted: by the tree
Of knowledge he must pass; there he her met,
Scarce from the tree returning; in her hand
A bough of fairest fruit, that downy smiled,
New gathered, and ambrosial smell diffused.
To him she hasted; in her face excuse
Came prologue, and apology too prompt;
Which, with bland words at will, she thus addressed.
Hast thou not wondered, Adam, at my stay?
Thee I have missed, and thought it long, deprived
Thy presence; agony of love till now
Not felt, nor shall be twice; for never more
Mean I to try, what rash untried I sought,
The pain of absence from thy sight.  But strange
Hath been the cause, and wonderful to hear:
This tree is not, as we are told, a tree
Of danger tasted, nor to evil unknown
Opening the way, but of divine effect
To open eyes, and make them Gods who taste;
And hath been tasted such:  The serpent wise,
Or not restrained as we, or not obeying,
Hath eaten of the fruit; and is become,
Not dead, as we are threatened, but thenceforth
Endued with human voice and human sense,
Reasoning to admiration; and with me
Persuasively hath so prevailed, that I
Have also tasted, and have also found
The effects to correspond; opener mine eyes,
Dim erst, dilated spirits, ampler heart,
And growing up to Godhead; which for thee
Chiefly I sought, without thee can despise.
For bliss, as thou hast part, to me is bliss;
Tedious, unshared with thee, and odious soon.
Thou therefore also taste, that equal lot
May join us, equal joy, as equal love;
Lest, thou not tasting, different degree
Disjoin us, and I then too late renounce
Deity for thee, when Fate will not permit.
Thus Eve with countenance blithe her story told;
But in her cheek distemper flushing glowed.
On the other side Adam, soon as he heard
The fatal trespass done by Eve, amazed,
Astonied stood and blank, while horrour chill
Ran through his veins, and all his joints relaxed;
From his slack hand the garland wreathed for Eve
Down dropt, and all the faded roses shed:
Speechless he stood and pale, till thus at length
First to himself he inward silence broke.
O fairest of Creation, last and best
Of all God's works, Creature in whom excelled
Whatever can to sight or thought be formed,
Holy, divine, good, amiable, or sweet!
How art thou lost! how on a sudden lost,
Defaced, deflowered, and now to death devote!
Rather, how hast thou yielded to transgress
The strict forbiddance, how to violate
The sacred fruit forbidden!  Some cursed fraud
Of enemy hath beguiled thee, yet unknown,
And me with thee hath ruined; for with thee
Certain my resolution is to die:
How can I live without thee! how forego
Thy sweet converse, and love so dearly joined,
To live again in these wild woods forlorn!
Should God create another Eve, and I
Another rib afford, yet loss of thee
Would never from my heart: no, no!I feel
The link of Nature draw me: flesh of flesh,
Bone of my bone thou art, and from thy state
Mine never shall be parted, bliss or woe.
So having said, as one from sad dismay
Recomforted, and after thoughts disturbed
Submitting to what seemed remediless,
Thus in calm mood his words to Eve he turned.
Bold deed thou hast presumed, adventurous Eve,
And peril great provoked, who thus hast dared,
Had it been only coveting to eye
That sacred fruit, sacred to abstinence,
Much more to taste it under ban to touch.
But past who can recall, or done undo?
Not God Omnipotent, nor Fate; yet so
Perhaps thou shalt not die, perhaps the fact
Is not so heinous now, foretasted fruit,
Profaned first by the serpent, by him first
Made common, and unhallowed, ere our taste;
Nor yet on him found deadly; yet he lives;
Lives, as thou saidst, and gains to live, as Man,
Higher degree of life; inducement strong
To us, as likely tasting to attain
Proportional ascent; which cannot be
But to be Gods, or Angels, demi-Gods.
Nor can I think that God, Creator wise,
Though threatening, will in earnest so destroy
Us his prime creatures, dignified so high,
Set over all his works; which in our fall,
For us created, needs with us must fail,
Dependant made; so God shall uncreate,
Be frustrate, do, undo, and labour lose;
Not well conceived of God, who, though his power
Creation could repeat, yet would be loth
Us to abolish, lest the Adversary
Triumph, and say; "Fickle their state whom God
"Most favours; who can please him long? Me first
"He ruined, now Mankind; whom will he next?"
Matter of scorn, not to be given the Foe.
However I with thee have fixed my lot,
Certain to undergo like doom:  If death
Consort with thee, death is to me as life;
So forcible within my heart I feel
The bond of Nature draw me to my own;
My own in thee, for what thou art is mine;
Our state cannot be severed; we are one,
One flesh; to lose thee were to lose myself.
So Adam; and thus Eve to him replied.
O glorious trial of exceeding love,
Illustrious evidence, example high!
Engaging me to emulate; but, short
Of thy perfection, how shall I attain,
Adam, from whose dear side I boast me sprung,
And gladly of our union hear thee speak,
One heart, one soul in both; whereof good proof
This day affords, declaring thee resolved,
Rather than death, or aught than death more dread,
Shall separate us, linked in love so dear,
To undergo with me one guilt, one crime,
If any be, of tasting this fair fruit;
Whose virtue for of good still good proceeds,
Direct, or by occasion, hath presented
This happy trial of thy love, which else
So eminently never had been known?
Were it I thought death menaced would ensue
This my attempt, I would sustain alone
The worst, and not persuade thee, rather die
Deserted, than oblige thee with a fact
Pernicious to thy peace; chiefly assured
Remarkably so late of thy so true,
So faithful, love unequalled: but I feel
Far otherwise the event; not death, but life
Augmented, opened eyes, new hopes, new joys,
Taste so divine, that what of sweet before
Hath touched my sense, flat seems to this, and harsh.
On my experience, Adam, freely taste,
And fear of death deliver to the winds.
So saying, she embraced him, and for joy
Tenderly wept; much won, that he his love
Had so ennobled, as of choice to incur
Divine displeasure for her sake, or death.
In recompence for such compliance bad
Such recompence best merits from the bough
She gave him of that fair enticing fruit
With liberal hand: he scrupled not to eat,
Against his better knowledge; not deceived,
But fondly overcome with female charm.
Earth trembled from her entrails, as again
In pangs; and Nature gave a second groan;
Sky loured; and, muttering thunder, some sad drops
Wept at completing of the mortal sin
Original: while Adam took no thought,
Eating his fill; nor Eve to iterate
Her former trespass feared, the more to sooth
Him with her loved society; that now,
As with new wine intoxicated both,
They swim in mirth, and fancy that they feel
Divinity within them breeding wings,
Wherewith to scorn the earth:  But that false fruit
Far other operation first displayed,
Carnal desire inflaming; he on Eve
Began to cast lascivious eyes; she him
As wantonly repaid; in lust they burn:
Till Adam thus 'gan Eve to dalliance move.
Eve, now I see thou art exact of taste,
And elegant, of sapience no small part;
Since to each meaning savour we apply,
And palate call judicious; I the praise
Yield thee, so well this day thou hast purveyed.
Much pleasure we have lost, while we abstained
From this delightful fruit, nor known till now
True relish, tasting; if such pleasure be
In things to us forbidden, it might be wished,
For this one tree had been forbidden ten.
But come, so well refreshed, now let us play,
As meet is, after such delicious fare;
For never did thy beauty, since the day
I saw thee first and wedded thee, adorned
With all perfections, so inflame my sense
With ardour to enjoy thee, fairer now
Than ever; bounty of this virtuous tree!
So said he, and forbore not glance or toy
Of amorous intent; well understood
Of Eve, whose eye darted contagious fire.
Her hand he seised; and to a shady bank,
Thick over-head with verdant roof imbowered,
He led her nothing loth; flowers were the couch,
Pansies, and violets, and asphodel,
And hyacinth;  Earth's freshest softest lap.
There they their fill of love and love's disport
Took largely, of their mutual guilt the seal,
The solace of their sin; till dewy sleep
Oppressed them, wearied with their amorous play,
Soon as the force of that fallacious fruit,
That with exhilarating vapour bland
About their spirits had played, and inmost powers
Made err, was now exhaled; and grosser sleep,
Bred of unkindly fumes, with conscious dreams
Incumbered, now had left them; up they rose
As from unrest; and, each the other viewing,
Soon found their eyes how opened, and their minds
How darkened; innocence, that as a veil
Had shadowed them from knowing ill, was gone;
Just confidence, and native righteousness,
And honour, from about them, naked left
To guilty Shame; he covered, but his robe
Uncovered more.  So rose the Danite strong,
Herculean Samson, from the harlot-lap
Of Philistean Dalilah, and waked
Shorn of his strength.  They destitute and bare
Of all their virtue:  Silent, and in face
Confounded, long they sat, as strucken mute:
Till Adam, though not less than Eve abashed,
At length gave utterance to these words constrained.
O Eve, in evil hour thou didst give ear
To that false worm, of whomsoever taught
To counterfeit Man's voice; true in our fall,
False in our promised rising; since our eyes
Opened we find indeed, and find we know
Both good and evil; good lost, and evil got;
Bad fruit of knowledge, if this be to know;
Which leaves us naked thus, of honour void,
Of innocence, of faith, of purity,
Our wonted ornaments now soiled and stained,
And in our faces evident the signs
Of foul concupiscence; whence evil store;
Even shame, the last of evils; of the first
Be sure then.--How shall I behold the face
Henceforth of God or Angel, erst with joy
And rapture so oft beheld?  Those heavenly shapes
Will dazzle now this earthly with their blaze
Insufferably bright.  O! might I here
In solitude live savage; in some glade
Obscured, where highest woods, impenetrable
To star or sun-light, spread their umbrage broad
And brown as evening:  Cover me, ye Pines!
Ye Cedars, with innumerable boughs
Hide me, where I may never see them more!--
But let us now, as in bad plight, devise
What best may for the present serve to hide
The parts of each from other, that seem most
To shame obnoxious, and unseemliest seen;
Some tree, whose broad smooth leaves together sewed,
And girded on our loins, may cover round
Those middle parts; that this new comer, Shame,
There sit not, and reproach us as unclean.
So counselled he, and both together went
Into the thickest wood; there soon they chose
The fig-tree; not that kind for fruit renowned,
But such as at this day, to Indians known,
In Malabar or Decan spreads her arms
Branching so broad and long, that in the ground
The bended twigs take root, and daughters grow
About the mother tree, a pillared shade
High over-arched, and echoing walks between:
There oft the Indian herdsman, shunning heat,
Shelters in cool, and tends his pasturing herds
At loop-holes cut through thickest shade:  Those leaves
They gathered, broad as Amazonian targe;
And, with what skill they had, together sewed,
To gird their waist; vain covering, if to hide
Their guilt and dreaded shame!  O, how unlike
To that first naked glory!  Such of late
Columbus found the American, so girt
With feathered cincture; naked else, and wild
Among the trees on isles and woody shores.
Thus fenced, and, as they thought, their shame in part
Covered, but not at rest or ease of mind,
They sat them down to weep; nor only tears
Rained at their eyes, but high winds worse within
Began to rise, high passions, anger, hate,
Mistrust, suspicion, discord; and shook sore
Their inward state of mind, calm region once
And full of peace, now tost and turbulent:
For Understanding ruled not, and the Will
Heard not her lore; both in subjection now
To sensual Appetite, who from beneath
Usurping over sovran Reason claimed
Superiour sway: From thus distempered breast,
Adam, estranged in look and altered style,
Speech intermitted thus to Eve renewed.
Would thou hadst hearkened to my words, and staid
With me, as I besought thee, when that strange
Desire of wandering, this unhappy morn,
I know not whence possessed thee; we had then
Remained still happy; not, as now, despoiled
Of all our good; shamed, naked, miserable!
Let none henceforth seek needless cause to approve
The faith they owe; when earnestly they seek
Such proof, conclude, they then begin to fail.
To whom, soon moved with touch of blame, thus Eve.
What words have passed thy lips, Adam severe!
Imputest thou that to my default, or will
Of wandering, as thou callest it, which who knows
But might as ill have happened thou being by,
Or to thyself perhaps?  Hadst thou been there,
Or here the attempt, thou couldst not have discerned
Fraud in the Serpent, speaking as he spake;
No ground of enmity between us known,
Why he should mean me ill, or seek to harm.
Was I to have never parted from thy side?
As good have grown there still a lifeless rib.
Being as I am, why didst not thou, the head,
Command me absolutely not to go,
Going into such danger, as thou saidst?
Too facile then, thou didst not much gainsay;
Nay, didst permit, approve, and fair dismiss.
Hadst thou been firm and fixed in thy dissent,
Neither had I transgressed, nor thou with me.
To whom, then first incensed, Adam replied.
Is this the love, is this the recompence
Of mine to thee, ingrateful Eve! expressed
Immutable, when thou wert lost, not I;
Who might have lived, and joyed immortal bliss,
Yet willingly chose rather death with thee?
And am I now upbraided as the cause
Of thy transgressing?  Not enough severe,
It seems, in thy restraint:  What could I more
I warned thee, I admonished thee, foretold
The danger, and the lurking enemy
That lay in wait; beyond this, had been force;
And force upon free will hath here no place.
But confidence then bore thee on; secure
Either to meet no danger, or to find
Matter of glorious trial; and perhaps
I also erred, in overmuch admiring
What seemed in thee so perfect, that I thought
No evil durst attempt thee; but I rue
The errour now, which is become my crime,
And thou the accuser.  Thus it shall befall
Him, who, to worth in women overtrusting,
Lets her will rule: restraint she will not brook;
And, left to herself, if evil thence ensue,
She first his weak indulgence will accuse.
Thus they in mutual accusation spent
The fruitless hours, but neither self-condemning;
And of their vain contest appeared no end.
Mean while the heinous and despiteful act
Of Satan, done in Paradise; and how
He, in the serpent, had perverted Eve,
Her husband she, to taste the fatal fruit,
Was known in Heaven; for what can 'scape the eye
Of God all-seeing, or deceive his heart
Omniscient? who, in all things wise and just,
Hindered not Satan to attempt the mind
Of Man, with strength entire and free will armed,
Complete to have discovered and repulsed
Whatever wiles of foe or seeming friend.
For still they knew, and ought to have still remembered,
The high injunction, not to taste that fruit,
Whoever tempted; which they not obeying,
(Incurred what could they less?) the penalty;
And, manifold in sin, deserved to fall.
Up into Heaven from Paradise in haste
The angelick guards ascended, mute, and sad,
For Man; for of his state by this they knew,
Much wondering how the subtle Fiend had stolen
Entrance unseen.  Soon as the unwelcome news
From Earth arrived at Heaven-gate, displeased
All were who heard; dim sadness did not spare
That time celestial visages, yet, mixed
With pity, violated not their bliss.
About the new-arrived, in multitudes
The ethereal people ran, to hear and know
How all befel:  They towards the throne supreme,
Accountable, made haste, to make appear,
With righteous plea, their utmost vigilance
And easily approved; when the Most High
Eternal Father, from his secret cloud,
Amidst in thunder uttered thus his voice.
Assembled Angels, and ye Powers returned
From unsuccessful charge; be not dismayed,
Nor troubled at these tidings from the earth,
Which your sincerest care could not prevent;
Foretold so lately what would come to pass,
When first this tempter crossed the gulf from Hell.
I told ye then he should prevail, and speed
On his bad errand; Man should be seduced,
And flattered out of all, believing lies
Against his Maker; no decree of mine
Concurring to necessitate his fall,
Or touch with lightest moment of impulse
His free will, to her own inclining left
In even scale.  But fallen he is; and now
What rests, but that the mortal sentence pass
On his transgression,--death denounced that day?
Which he presumes already vain and void,
Because not yet inflicted, as he feared,
By some immediate stroke; but soon shall find
Forbearance no acquittance, ere day end.
Justice shall not return as bounty scorned.
But whom send I to judge them? whom but thee,
Vicegerent Son?  To thee I have transferred
All judgement, whether in Heaven, or Earth, or Hell.
Easy it may be seen that I intend
Mercy colleague with justice, sending thee
Man's friend, his Mediator, his designed
Both ransom and Redeemer voluntary,
And destined Man himself to judge Man fallen.
So spake the Father; and, unfolding bright
Toward the right hand his glory, on the Son
Blazed forth unclouded Deity: He full
Resplendent all his Father manifest
Expressed, and thus divinely answered mild.
Father Eternal, thine is to decree;
Mine, both in Heaven and Earth, to do thy will
Supreme; that thou in me, thy Son beloved,
Mayest ever rest well pleased.  I go to judge
On earth these thy transgressours; but thou knowest,
Whoever judged, the worst on me must light,
When time shall be; for so I undertook
Before thee; and, not repenting, this obtain
Of right, that I may mitigate their doom
On me derived; yet I shall temper so
Justice with mercy, as may illustrate most
Them fully satisfied, and thee appease.
Attendance none shall need, nor train, where none
Are to behold the judgement, but the judged,
Those two; the third best absent is condemned,
Convict by flight, and rebel to all law:
Conviction to the serpent none belongs.
Thus saying, from his radiant seat he rose
Of high collateral glory: Him Thrones, and Powers,
Princedoms, and Dominations ministrant,
Accompanied to Heaven-gate; from whence
Eden, and all the coast, in prospect lay.
Down he descended straight; the speed of Gods
Time counts not, though with swiftest minutes winged.
Now was the sun in western cadence low
From noon, and gentle airs, due at their hour,
To fan the earth now waked, and usher in
The evening cool; when he, from wrath more cool,
Came the mild Judge, and Intercessour both,
To sentence Man:  The voice of God they heard
Now walking in the garden, by soft winds
Brought to their ears, while day declined; they heard,
And from his presence hid themselves among
The thickest trees, both man and wife; till God,
Approaching, thus to Adam called aloud.
Where art thou, Adam, wont with joy to meet
My coming seen far off?  I miss thee here,
Not pleased, thus entertained with solitude,
Where obvious duty ere while appeared unsought:
Or come I less conspicuous, or what change
Absents thee, or what chance detains?--Come forth!
He came; and with him Eve, more loth, though first
To offend; discountenanced both, and discomposed;
Love was not in their looks, either to God,
Or to each other; but apparent guilt,
And shame, and perturbation, and despair,
Anger, and obstinacy, and hate, and guile.
Whence Adam, faltering long, thus answered brief.
I heard thee in the garden, and of thy voice
Afraid, being naked, hid myself.  To whom
The gracious Judge without revile replied.
My voice thou oft hast heard, and hast not feared,
But still rejoiced; how is it now become
So dreadful to thee?  That thou art naked, who
Hath told thee?  Hast thou eaten of the tree,
Whereof I gave thee charge thou shouldst not eat?
To whom thus Adam sore beset replied.
O Heaven! in evil strait this day I stand
Before my Judge; either to undergo
Myself the total crime, or to accuse
My other self, the partner of my life;
Whose failing, while her faith to me remains,
I should conceal, and not expose to blame
By my complaint: but strict necessity
Subdues me, and calamitous constraint;
Lest on my head both sin and punishment,
However insupportable, be all
Devolved; though should I hold my peace, yet thou
Wouldst easily detect what I conceal.--
This Woman, whom thou madest to be my help,
And gavest me as thy perfect gift, so good,
So fit, so acceptable, so divine,
That from her hand I could suspect no ill,
And what she did, whatever in itself,
Her doing seemed to justify the deed;
She gave me of the tree, and I did eat.
To whom the Sovran Presence thus replied.
Was she thy God, that her thou didst obey
Before his voice? or was she made thy guide,
Superiour, or but equal, that to her
Thou didst resign thy manhood, and the place
Wherein God set thee above her made of thee,
And for thee, whose perfection far excelled
Hers in all real dignity?  Adorned
She was indeed, and lovely, to attract
Thy love, not thy subjection; and her gifts
Were such, as under government well seemed;
Unseemly to bear rule; which was thy part
And person, hadst thou known thyself aright.
So having said, he thus to Eve in few.
Say, Woman, what is this which thou hast done?
To whom sad Eve, with shame nigh overwhelmed,
Confessing soon, yet not before her Judge
Bold or loquacious, thus abashed replied.
The Serpent me beguiled, and I did eat.
Which when the Lord God heard, without delay
To judgement he proceeded on the accused
Serpent, though brute; unable to transfer
The guilt on him, who made him instrument
Of mischief, and polluted from the end
Of his creation; justly then accursed,
As vitiated in nature:  More to know
Concerned not Man, (since he no further knew)
Nor altered his offence; yet God at last
To Satan first in sin his doom applied,
Though in mysterious terms, judged as then best:
And on the Serpent thus his curse let fall.
Because thou hast done this, thou art accursed
Above all cattle, each beast of the field;
Upon thy belly groveling thou shalt go,
And dust shalt eat all the days of thy life.
Between thee and the woman I will put
Enmity, and between thine and her seed;
Her seed shall bruise thy head, thou bruise his heel.
So spake this oracle, then verified
When Jesus, Son of Mary, second Eve,
Saw Satan fall, like lightning, down from Heaven,
Prince of the air; then, rising from his grave
Spoiled Principalities and Powers, triumphed
In open show; and, with ascension bright,
Captivity led captive through the air,
The realm itself of Satan, long usurped;
Whom he shall tread at last under our feet;
Even he, who now foretold his fatal bruise;
And to the Woman thus his sentence turned.
Thy sorrow I will greatly multiply
By thy conception; children thou shalt bring
In sorrow forth; and to thy husband's will
Thine shall submit; he over thee shall rule.
On Adam last thus judgement he pronounced.
Because thou hast hearkened to the voice of thy wife,
And eaten of the tree, concerning which
I charged thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat thereof:
Cursed is the ground for thy sake; thou in sorrow
Shalt eat thereof, all the days of thy life;
Thorns also and thistles it shall bring thee forth
Unbid; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
Till thou return unto the ground; for thou
Out of the ground wast taken, know thy birth,
For dust thou art, and shalt to dust return.
So judged he Man, both Judge and Saviour sent;
And the instant stroke of death, denounced that day,
Removed far off; then, pitying how they stood
Before him naked to the air, that now
Must suffer change, disdained not to begin
Thenceforth the form of servant to assume;
As when he washed his servants feet; so now,
As father of his family, he clad
Their nakedness with skins of beasts, or slain,
Or as the snake with youthful coat repaid;
And thought not much to clothe his enemies;
Nor he their outward only with the skins
Of beasts, but inward nakedness, much more.
Opprobrious, with his robe of righteousness,
Arraying, covered from his Father's sight.
To him with swift ascent he up returned,
Into his blissful bosom reassumed
In glory, as of old; to him appeased
All, though all-knowing, what had passed with Man
Recounted, mixing intercession sweet.
Mean while, ere thus was sinned and judged on Earth,
Within the gates of Hell sat Sin and Death,
In counterview within the gates, that now
Stood open wide, belching outrageous flame
Far into Chaos, since the Fiend passed through,
Sin opening; who thus now to Death began.
O Son, why sit we here each other viewing
Idly, while Satan, our great author, thrives
In other worlds, and happier seat provides
For us, his offspring dear?  It cannot be
But that success attends him; if mishap,
Ere this he had returned, with fury driven
By his avengers; since no place like this
Can fit his punishment, or their revenge.
Methinks I feel new strength within me rise,
Wings growing, and dominion given me large
Beyond this deep; whatever draws me on,
Or sympathy, or some connatural force,
Powerful at greatest distance to unite,
With secret amity, things of like kind,
By secretest conveyance.  Thou, my shade
Inseparable, must with me along;
For Death from Sin no power can separate.
But, lest the difficulty of passing back
Stay his return perhaps over this gulf
Impassable, impervious; let us try
Adventurous work, yet to thy power and mine
Not unagreeable, to found a path
Over this main from Hell to that new world,
Where Satan now prevails; a monument
Of merit high to all the infernal host,
Easing their passage hence, for intercourse,
Or transmigration, as their lot shall lead.
Nor can I miss the way, so strongly drawn
By this new-felt attraction and instinct.
Whom thus the meager Shadow answered soon.
Go, whither Fate, and inclination strong,
Leads thee; I shall not lag behind, nor err
The way, thou leading; such a scent I draw
Of carnage, prey innumerable, and taste
The savour of death from all things there that live:
Nor shall I to the work thou enterprisest
Be wanting, but afford thee equal aid.
So saying, with delight he snuffed the smell
Of mortal change on earth.  As when a flock
Of ravenous fowl, though many a league remote,
Against the day of battle, to a field,
Where armies lie encamped, come flying, lured
With scent of living carcasses designed
For death, the following day, in bloody fight:
So scented the grim Feature, and upturned
His nostril wide into the murky air;
Sagacious of his quarry from so far.
Then both from out Hell-gates, into the waste
Wide anarchy of Chaos, damp and dark,
Flew diverse; and with power (their power was great)
Hovering upon the waters, what they met
Solid or slimy, as in raging sea
Tost up and down, together crouded drove,
From each side shoaling towards the mouth of Hell;
As when two polar winds, blowing adverse
Upon the Cronian sea, together drive
Mountains of ice, that stop the imagined way
Beyond Petsora eastward, to the rich
Cathaian coast.  The aggregated soil
Death with his mace petrifick, cold and dry,
As with a trident, smote; and fixed as firm
As Delos, floating once; the rest his look
Bound with Gorgonian rigour not to move;
And with Asphaltick slime, broad as the gate,
Deep to the roots of Hell the gathered beach
They fastened, and the mole immense wrought on
Over the foaming deep high-arched, a bridge
Of length prodigious, joining to the wall
Immoveable of this now fenceless world,
Forfeit to Death; from hence a passage broad,
Smooth, easy, inoffensive, down to Hell.
So, if great things to small may be compared,
Xerxes, the liberty of Greece to yoke,
From Susa, his Memnonian palace high,
Came to the sea: and, over Hellespont
Bridging his way, Europe with Asia joined,
And scourged with many a stroke the indignant waves.
Now had they brought the work by wonderous art
Pontifical, a ridge of pendant rock,
Over the vexed abyss, following the track
Of Satan to the self-same place where he
First lighted from his wing, and landed safe
From out of Chaos, to the outside bare
Of this round world:  With pins of adamant
And chains they made all fast, too fast they made
And durable!  And now in little space
The confines met of empyrean Heaven,
And of this World; and, on the left hand, Hell
With long reach interposed; three several ways
In sight, to each of these three places led.
And now their way to Earth they had descried,
To Paradise first tending; when, behold!
Satan, in likeness of an Angel bright,
Betwixt the Centaur and the Scorpion steering
His zenith, while the sun in Aries rose:
Disguised he came; but those his children dear
Their parent soon discerned, though in disguise.
He, after Eve seduced, unminded slunk
Into the wood fast by; and, changing shape,
To observe the sequel, saw his guileful act
By Eve, though all unweeting, seconded
Upon her husband; saw their shame that sought
Vain covertures; but when he saw descend
The Son of God to judge them, terrified
He fled; not hoping to escape, but shun
The present; fearing, guilty, what his wrath
Might suddenly inflict; that past, returned
By night, and listening where the hapless pair
Sat in their sad discourse, and various plaint,
Thence gathered his own doom; which understood
Not instant, but of future time, with joy
And tidings fraught, to Hell he now returned;
And at the brink of Chaos, near the foot
Of this new wonderous pontifice, unhoped
Met, who to meet him came, his offspring dear.
Great joy was at their meeting, and at sight
Of that stupendious bridge his joy encreased.
Long he admiring stood, till Sin, his fair
Enchanting daughter, thus the silence broke.
O Parent, these are thy magnifick deeds,
Thy trophies! which thou viewest as not thine own;
Thou art their author, and prime architect:
For I no sooner in my heart divined,
My heart, which by a secret harmony
Still moves with thine, joined in connexion sweet,
That thou on earth hadst prospered, which thy looks
Now also evidence, but straight I felt,
Though distant from thee worlds between, yet felt,
That I must after thee, with this thy son;
Such fatal consequence unites us three!
Hell could no longer hold us in our bounds,
Nor this unvoyageable gulf obscure
Detain from following thy illustrious track.
Thou hast achieved our liberty, confined
Within Hell-gates till now; thou us impowered
To fortify thus far, and overlay,
With this portentous bridge, the dark abyss.
Thine now is all this world; thy virtue hath won
What thy hands builded not; thy wisdom gained
With odds what war hath lost, and fully avenged
Our foil in Heaven; here thou shalt monarch reign,
There didst not; there let him still victor sway,
As battle hath adjudged; from this new world
Retiring, by his own doom alienated;
And henceforth monarchy with thee divide
Of all things, parted by the empyreal bounds,
His quadrature, from thy orbicular world;
Or try thee now more dangerous to his throne.
Whom thus the Prince of darkness answered glad.
Fair Daughter, and thou Son and Grandchild both;
High proof ye now have given to be the race
Of Satan (for I glory in the name,
Antagonist of Heaven's Almighty King,)
Amply have merited of me, of all
The infernal empire, that so near Heaven's door
Triumphal with triumphal act have met,
Mine, with this glorious work; and made one realm,
Hell and this world, one realm, one continent
Of easy thorough-fare.  Therefore, while I
Descend through darkness, on your road with ease,
To my associate Powers, them to acquaint
With these successes, and with them rejoice;
You two this way, among these numerous orbs,
All yours, right down to Paradise descend;
There dwell, and reign in bliss; thence on the earth
Dominion exercise and in the air,
Chiefly on Man, sole lord of all declared;
Him first make sure your thrall, and lastly kill.
My substitutes I send ye, and create
Plenipotent on earth, of matchless might
Issuing from me: on your joint vigour now
My hold of this new kingdom all depends,
Through Sin to Death exposed by my exploit.
If your joint power prevail, the affairs of Hell
No detriment need fear; go, and be strong!
So saying he dismissed them; they with speed
Their course through thickest constellations held,
Spreading their bane; the blasted stars looked wan,
And planets, planet-struck, real eclipse
Then suffered.  The other way Satan went down
The causey to Hell-gate:  On either side
Disparted Chaos overbuilt exclaimed,
And with rebounding surge the bars assailed,
That scorned his indignation:  Through the gate,
Wide open and unguarded, Satan passed,
And all about found desolate; for those,
Appointed to sit there, had left their charge,
Flown to the upper world; the rest were all
Far to the inland retired, about the walls
Of Pandemonium; city and proud seat
Of Lucifer, so by allusion called
Of that bright star to Satan paragoned;
There kept their watch the legions, while the Grand
In council sat, solicitous what chance
Might intercept their emperour sent; so he
Departing gave command, and they observed.
As when the Tartar from his Russian foe,
By Astracan, over the snowy plains,
Retires; or Bactrin Sophi, from the horns
Of Turkish crescent, leaves all waste beyond
The realm of Aladule, in his retreat
To Tauris or Casbeen:  So these, the late
Heaven-banished host, left desart utmost Hell
Many a dark league, reduced in careful watch
Round their metropolis; and now expecting
Each hour their great adventurer, from the search
Of foreign worlds:  He through the midst unmarked,
In show plebeian Angel militant
Of lowest order, passed; and from the door
Of that Plutonian hall, invisible
Ascended his high throne; which, under state
Of richest texture spread, at the upper end
Was placed in regal lustre.  Down a while
He sat, and round about him saw unseen:
At last, as from a cloud, his fulgent head
And shape star-bright appeared, or brighter; clad
With what permissive glory since his fall
Was left him, or false glitter:  All amazed
At that so sudden blaze the Stygian throng
Bent their aspect, and whom they wished beheld,
Their mighty Chief returned: loud was the acclaim:
Forth rushed in haste the great consulting peers,
Raised from their dark Divan, and with like joy
Congratulant approached him; who with hand
Silence, and with these words attention, won.
Thrones, Dominations, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers;
For in possession such, not only of right,
I call ye, and declare ye now; returned
Successful beyond hope, to lead ye forth
Triumphant out of this infernal pit
Abominable, accursed, the house of woe,
And dungeon of our tyrant:  Now possess,
As Lords, a spacious world, to our native Heaven
Little inferiour, by my adventure hard
With peril great achieved.  Long were to tell
What I have done; what suffered;with what pain
Voyaged th' unreal, vast, unbounded deep
Of horrible confusion; over which
By Sin and Death a broad way now is paved,
To expedite your glorious march; but I
Toiled out my uncouth passage, forced to ride
The untractable abyss, plunged in the womb
Of unoriginal Night and Chaos wild;
That, jealous of their secrets, fiercely opposed
My journey strange, with clamorous uproar
Protesting Fate supreme; thence how I found
The new created world, which fame in Heaven
Long had foretold, a fabrick wonderful
Of absolute perfection! therein Man
Placed in a Paradise, by our exile
Made happy:  Him by fraud I have seduced
From his Creator; and, the more to encrease
Your wonder, with an apple; he, thereat
Offended, worth your laughter! hath given up
Both his beloved Man, and all his world,
To Sin and Death a prey, and so to us,
Without our hazard, labour, or alarm;
To range in, and to dwell, and over Man
To rule, as over all he should have ruled.
True is, me also he hath judged, or rather
Me not, but the brute serpent in whose shape
Man I deceived: that which to me belongs,
Is enmity which he will put between
Me and mankind; I am to bruise his heel;
His seed, when is not set, shall bruise my head:
A world who would not purchase with a bruise,
Or much more grievous pain?--Ye have the account
Of my performance:  What remains, ye Gods,
But up, and enter now into full bliss?
So having said, a while he stood, expecting
Their universal shout, and high applause,
To fill his ear; when, contrary, he hears
On all sides, from innumerable tongues,
A dismal universal hiss, the sound
Of publick scorn; he wondered, but not long
Had leisure, wondering at himself now more,
His visage drawn he felt to sharp and spare;
His arms clung to his ribs; his legs entwining
Each other, till supplanted down he fell
A monstrous serpent on his belly prone,
Reluctant, but in vain; a greater power
Now ruled him, punished in the shape he sinned,
According to his doom: he would have spoke,
But hiss for hiss returned with forked tongue
To forked tongue; for now were all transformed
Alike, to serpents all, as accessories
To his bold riot:  Dreadful was the din
Of hissing through the hall, thick swarming now
With complicated monsters head and tail,
Scorpion, and Asp, and Amphisbaena dire,
Cerastes horned, Hydrus, and Elops drear,
And Dipsas; (not so thick swarmed once the soil
Bedropt with blood of Gorgon, or the isle
Ophiusa,) but still greatest he the midst,
Now Dragon grown, larger than whom the sun
Ingendered in the Pythian vale or slime,
Huge Python, and his power no less he seemed
Above the rest still to retain; they all
Him followed, issuing forth to the open field,
Where all yet left of that revolted rout,
Heaven-fallen, in station stood or just array;
Sublime with expectation when to see
In triumph issuing forth their glorious Chief;
They saw, but other sight instead! a croud
Of ugly serpents; horrour on them fell,
And horrid sympathy; for, what they saw,
They felt themselves, now changing; down their arms,
Down fell both spear and shield; down they as fast;
And the dire hiss renewed, and the dire form
Catched, by contagion; like in punishment,
As in their crime.  Thus was the applause they meant,
Turned to exploding hiss, triumph to shame
Cast on themselves from their own mouths.  There stood
A grove hard by, sprung up with this their change,
His will who reigns above, to aggravate
Their penance, laden with fair fruit, like that
Which grew in Paradise, the bait of Eve
Used by the Tempter: on that prospect strange
Their earnest eyes they fixed, imagining
For one forbidden tree a multitude
Now risen, to work them further woe or shame;
Yet, parched with scalding thirst and hunger fierce,
Though to delude them sent, could not abstain;
But on they rolled in heaps, and, up the trees
Climbing, sat thicker than the snaky locks
That curled Megaera: greedily they plucked
The fruitage fair to sight, like that which grew
Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed;
This more delusive, not the touch, but taste
Deceived; they, fondly thinking to allay
Their appetite with gust, instead of fruit
Chewed bitter ashes, which the offended taste
With spattering noise rejected: oft they assayed,
Hunger and thirst constraining; drugged as oft,
With hatefullest disrelish writhed their jaws,
With soot and cinders filled; so oft they fell
Into the same illusion, not as Man
Whom they triumphed once lapsed.  Thus were they plagued
And worn with famine, long and ceaseless hiss,
Till their lost shape, permitted, they resumed;
Yearly enjoined, some say, to undergo,
This annual humbling certain numbered days,
To dash their pride, and joy, for Man seduced.
However, some tradition they dispersed
Among the Heathen, of their purchase got,
And fabled how the Serpent, whom they called
Ophion, with Eurynome, the wide--
Encroaching Eve perhaps, had first the rule
Of high Olympus; thence by Saturn driven
And Ops, ere yet Dictaean Jove was born.
Mean while in Paradise the hellish pair
Too soon arrived; Sin, there in power before,
Once actual; now in body, and to dwell
Habitual habitant; behind her Death,
Close following pace for pace, not mounted yet
On his pale horse: to whom Sin thus began.
Second of Satan sprung, all-conquering Death!
What thinkest thou of our empire now, though earned
With travel difficult, not better far
Than still at Hell's dark threshold to have sat watch,
Unnamed, undreaded, and thyself half starved?
Whom thus the Sin-born monster answered soon.
To me, who with eternal famine pine,
Alike is Hell, or Paradise, or Heaven;
There best, where most with ravine I may meet;
Which here, though plenteous, all too little seems
To stuff this maw, this vast unhide-bound corps.
To whom the incestuous mother thus replied.
Thou therefore on these herbs, and fruits, and flowers,
Feed first; on each beast next, and fish, and fowl;
No homely morsels! and, whatever thing
The sithe of Time mows down, devour unspared;
Till I, in Man residing, through the race,
His thoughts, his looks, words, actions, all infect;
And season him thy last and sweetest prey.
This said, they both betook them several ways,
Both to destroy, or unimmortal make
All kinds, and for destruction to mature
Sooner or later; which the Almighty seeing,
From his transcendent seat the Saints among,
To those bright Orders uttered thus his voice.
See, with what heat these dogs of Hell advance
To waste and havock yonder world, which I
So fair and good created; and had still
Kept in that state, had not the folly of Man
Let in these wasteful furies, who impute
Folly to me; so doth the Prince of Hell
And his adherents, that with so much ease
I suffer them to enter and possess
A place so heavenly; and, conniving, seem
To gratify my scornful enemies,
That laugh, as if, transported with some fit
Of passion, I to them had quitted all,
At random yielded up to their misrule;
And know not that I called, and drew them thither,
My Hell-hounds, to lick up the draff and filth
Which Man's polluting sin with taint hath shed
On what was pure; til, crammed and gorged, nigh burst
With sucked and glutted offal, at one sling
Of thy victorious arm, well-pleasing Son,
Both Sin, and Death, and yawning Grave, at last,
Through Chaos hurled, obstruct the mouth of Hell
For ever, and seal up his ravenous jaws.
Then Heaven and Earth renewed shall be made pure
To sanctity, that shall receive no stain:
Till then, the curse pronounced on both precedes.
He ended, and the heavenly audience loud
Sung Halleluiah, as the sound of seas,
Through multitude that sung:  Just are thy ways,
Righteous are thy decrees on all thy works;
Who can extenuate thee?  Next, to the Son,
Destined Restorer of mankind, by whom
New Heaven and Earth shall to the ages rise,
Or down from Heaven descend.--Such was their song;
While the Creator, calling forth by name
His mighty Angels, gave them several charge,
As sorted best with present things.  The sun
Had first his precept so to move, so shine,
As might affect the earth with cold and heat
Scarce tolerable; and from the north to call
Decrepit winter; from the south to bring
Solstitial summer's heat.  To the blanc moon
Her office they prescribed; to the other five
Their planetary motions, and aspects,
In sextile, square, and trine, and opposite,
Of noxious efficacy, and when to join
In synod unbenign; and taught the fixed
Their influence malignant when to shower,
Which of them rising with the sun, or falling,
Should prove tempestuous:  To the winds they set
Their corners, when with bluster to confound
Sea, air, and shore; the thunder when to roll
With terrour through the dark aereal hall.
Some say, he bid his Angels turn ascanse
The poles of earth, twice ten degrees and more,
From the sun's axle; they with labour pushed
Oblique the centrick globe:  Some say, the sun
Was bid turn reins from the equinoctial road
Like distant breadth to Taurus with the seven
Atlantick Sisters, and the Spartan Twins,
Up to the Tropick Crab: thence down amain
By Leo, and the Virgin, and the Scales,
As deep as Capricorn; to bring in change
Of seasons to each clime; else had the spring
Perpetual smiled on earth with vernant flowers,
Equal in days and nights, except to those
Beyond the polar circles; to them day
Had unbenighted shone, while the low sun,
To recompense his distance, in their sight
Had rounded still the horizon, and not known
Or east or west; which had forbid the snow
From cold Estotiland, and south as far
Beneath Magellan.  At that tasted fruit
The sun, as from Thyestean banquet, turned
His course intended; else, how had the world
Inhabited, though sinless, more than now,
Avoided pinching cold and scorching heat?
These changes in the Heavens, though slow, produced
Like change on sea and land; sideral blast,
Vapour, and mist, and exhalation hot,
Corrupt and pestilent:  Now from the north
Of Norumbega, and the Samoed shore,
Bursting their brazen dungeon, armed with ice,
And snow, and hail, and stormy gust and flaw,
Boreas, and Caecias, and Argestes loud,
And Thrascias, rend the woods, and seas upturn;
With adverse blast upturns them from the south
Notus, and Afer black with thunderous clouds
From Serraliona; thwart of these, as fierce,
Forth rush the Levant and the Ponent winds,
Eurus and Zephyr, with their lateral noise,
Sirocco and Libecchio.  Thus began
Outrage from lifeless things; but Discord first,
Daughter of Sin, among the irrational
Death introduced, through fierce antipathy:
Beast now with beast 'gan war, and fowl with fowl,
And fish with fish; to graze the herb all leaving,
Devoured each other; nor stood much in awe
Of Man, but fled him; or, with countenance grim,
Glared on him passing.  These were from without
The growing miseries, which Adam saw
Already in part, though hid in gloomiest shade,
To sorrow abandoned, but worse felt within;
And, in a troubled sea of passion tost,
Thus to disburden sought with sad complaint.
O miserable of happy!  Is this the end
Of this new glorious world, and me so late
The glory of that glory, who now become
Accursed, of blessed? hide me from the face
Of God, whom to behold was then my highth
Of happiness!--Yet well, if here would end
The misery; I deserved it, and would bear
My own deservings; but this will not serve:
All that I eat or drink, or shall beget,
Is propagated curse.  O voice, once heard
Delightfully, Encrease and multiply;
Now death to hear! for what can I encrease,
Or multiply, but curses on my head?
Who of all ages to succeed, but, feeling
The evil on him brought by me, will curse
My head?  Ill fare our ancestor impure,
For this we may thank Adam! but his thanks
Shall be the execration: so, besides
Mine own that bide upon me, all from me
Shall with a fierce reflux on me rebound;
On me, as on their natural center, light
Heavy, though in their place.  O fleeting joys
Of Paradise, dear bought with lasting woes!
Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay
To mould me Man? did I solicit thee
From darkness to promote me, or here place
In this delicious garden?  As my will
Concurred not to my being, it were but right
And equal to reduce me to my dust;
Desirous to resign and render back
All I received; unable to perform
Thy terms too hard, by which I was to hold
The good I sought not.  To the loss of that,
Sufficient penalty, why hast thou added
The sense of endless woes?  Inexplicable
Why am I mocked with death, and lengthened out
To deathless pain?  How gladly would I meet
Mortality my sentence, and be earth
Insensible!  How glad would lay me down
As in my mother's lap!  There I should rest,
And sleep secure; his dreadful voice no more
Would thunder in my ears; no fear of worse
To me, and to my offspring, would torment me
With cruel expectation.  Yet one doubt
Pursues me still, lest all I cannot die;
Lest that pure breath of life, the spirit of Man
Which God inspired, cannot together perish
With this corporeal clod; then, in the grave,
Or in some other dismal place, who knows
But I shall die a living death?  O thought
Horrid, if true!  Yet why? It was but breath
Of life that sinned; what dies but what had life
And sin?  The body properly had neither,
All of me then shall die: let this appease
The doubt, since human reach no further knows.
For though the Lord of all be infinite,
Is his wrath also?  Be it, Man is not so,
But mortal doomed.  How can he exercise
Wrath without end on Man, whom death must end?
Can he make deathless death?  That were to make
Strange contradiction, which to God himself
Impossible is held; as argument
Of weakness, not of power.  Will he draw out,
For anger's sake, finite to infinite,
In punished Man, to satisfy his rigour,
Satisfied never?  That were to extend
His sentence beyond dust and Nature's law;
By which all causes else, according still
To the reception of their matter, act;
Not to the extent of their own sphere.  But say
That death be not one stroke, as I supposed,
Bereaving sense, but endless misery
From this day onward; which I feel begun
Both in me, and without me; and so last
To perpetuity;--Ay me!that fear
Comes thundering back with dreadful revolution
On my defenceless head; both Death and I
Am found eternal, and incorporate both;
Nor I on my part single; in me all
Posterity stands cursed:  Fair patrimony
That I must leave ye, Sons!  O, were I able
To waste it all myself, and leave ye none!
So disinherited, how would you bless
Me, now your curse!  Ah, why should all mankind,
For one man's fault, thus guiltless be condemned,
It guiltless?  But from me what can proceed,
But all corrupt; both mind and will depraved
Not to do only, but to will the same
With me?  How can they then acquitted stand
In sight of God?  Him, after all disputes,
Forced I absolve: all my evasions vain,
And reasonings, though through mazes, lead me still
But to my own conviction: first and last
On me, me only, as the source and spring
Of all corruption, all the blame lights due;
So might the wrath!  Fond wish!couldst thou support
That burden, heavier than the earth to bear;
Than all the world much heavier, though divided
With that bad Woman?  Thus, what thou desirest,
And what thou fearest, alike destroys all hope
Of refuge, and concludes thee miserable
Beyond all past example and future;
To Satan only like both crime and doom.
O Conscience! into what abyss of fears
And horrours hast thou driven me; out of which
I find no way, from deep to deeper plunged!
Thus Adam to himself lamented loud,
Through the still night; not now, as ere Man fell,
Wholesome, and cool, and mild, but with black air
Accompanied; with damps, and dreadful gloom;
Which to his evil conscience represented
All things with double terrour:  On the ground
Outstretched he lay, on the cold ground; and oft
Cursed his creation;  Death as oft accused
Of tardy execution, since denounced
The day of his offence.  Why comes not Death,
Said he, with one thrice-acceptable stroke
To end me?  Shall Truth fail to keep her word,
Justice Divine not hasten to be just?
But Death comes not at call; Justice Divine
Mends not her slowest pace for prayers or cries,
O woods, O fountains, hillocks, dales, and bowers!
With other echo late I taught your shades
To answer, and resound far other song.--
Whom thus afflicted when sad Eve beheld,
Desolate where she sat, approaching nigh,
Soft words to his fierce passion she assayed:
But her with stern regard he thus repelled.
Out of my sight, thou Serpent!  That name best
Befits thee with him leagued, thyself as false
And hateful; nothing wants, but that thy shape,
Like his, and colour serpentine, may show
Thy inward fraud; to warn all creatures from thee
Henceforth; lest that too heavenly form, pretended
To hellish falshood, snare them!  But for thee
I had persisted happy; had not thy pride
And wandering vanity, when least was safe,
Rejected my forewarning, and disdained
Not to be trusted; longing to be seen,
Though by the Devil himself; him overweening
To over-reach; but, with the serpent meeting,
Fooled and beguiled; by him thou, I by thee
To trust thee from my side; imagined wise,
Constant, mature, proof against all assaults;
And understood not all was but a show,
Rather than solid virtue; all but a rib
Crooked by nature, bent, as now appears,
More to the part sinister, from me drawn;
Well if thrown out, as supernumerary
To my just number found.  O! why did God,
Creator wise, that peopled highest Heaven
With Spirits masculine, create at last
This novelty on earth, this fair defect
Of nature, and not fill the world at once
With Men, as Angels, without feminine;
Or find some other way to generate
Mankind?  This mischief had not been befallen,
And more that shall befall; innumerable
Disturbances on earth through female snares,
And strait conjunction with this sex: for either
He never shall find out fit mate, but such
As some misfortune brings him, or mistake;
Or whom he wishes most shall seldom gain
Through her perverseness, but shall see her gained
By a far worse; or, if she love, withheld
By parents; or his happiest choice too late
Shall meet, already linked and wedlock-bound
To a fell adversary, his hate or shame:
Which infinite calamity shall cause
To human life, and houshold peace confound.
He added not, and from her turned; but Eve,
Not so repulsed, with tears that ceased not flowing
And tresses all disordered, at his feet
Fell humble; and, embracing them, besought
His peace, and thus proceeded in her plaint.
Forsake me not thus, Adam! witness Heaven
What love sincere, and reverence in my heart
I bear thee, and unweeting have offended,
Unhappily deceived!  Thy suppliant
I beg, and clasp thy knees; bereave me not,
Whereon I live, thy gentle looks, thy aid,
Thy counsel, in this uttermost distress,
My only strength and stay:  Forlorn of thee,
Whither shall I betake me, where subsist?
While yet we live, scarce one short hour perhaps,
Between us two let there be peace; both joining,
As joined in injuries, one enmity
Against a foe by doom express assigned us,
That cruel Serpent:  On me exercise not
Thy hatred for this misery befallen;
On me already lost, me than thyself
More miserable!  Both have sinned;but thou
Against God only; I against God and thee;
And to the place of judgement will return,
There with my cries importune Heaven; that all
The sentence, from thy head removed, may light
On me, sole cause to thee of all this woe;
Me, me only, just object of his ire!
She ended weeping; and her lowly plight,
Immoveable, till peace obtained from fault
Acknowledged and deplored, in Adam wrought
Commiseration:  Soon his heart relented
Towards her, his life so late, and sole delight,
Now at his feet submissive in distress;
Creature so fair his reconcilement seeking,
His counsel, whom she had displeased, his aid:
As one disarmed, his anger all he lost,
And thus with peaceful words upraised her soon.
Unwary, and too desirous, as before,
So now of what thou knowest not, who desirest
The punishment all on thyself; alas!
Bear thine own first, ill able to sustain
His full wrath, whose thou feelest as yet least part,
And my displeasure bearest so ill.  If prayers
Could alter high decrees, I to that place
Would speed before thee, and be louder heard,
That on my head all might be visited;
Thy frailty and infirmer sex forgiven,
To me committed, and by me exposed.
But rise;--let us no more contend, nor blame
Each other, blamed enough elsewhere; but strive
In offices of love, how we may lighten
Each other's burden, in our share of woe;
Since this day's death denounced, if aught I see,
Will prove no sudden, but a slow-paced evil;
A long day's dying, to augment our pain;
And to our seed (O hapless seed!) derived.
To whom thus Eve, recovering heart, replied.
Adam, by sad experiment I know
How little weight my words with thee can find,
Found so erroneous; thence by just event
Found so unfortunate:  Nevertheless,
Restored by thee, vile as I am, to place
Of new acceptance, hopeful to regain
Thy love, the sole contentment of my heart
Living or dying, from thee I will not hide
What thoughts in my unquiet breast are risen,
Tending to some relief of our extremes,
Or end; though sharp and sad, yet tolerable,
As in our evils, and of easier choice.
If care of our descent perplex us most,
Which must be born to certain woe, devoured
By Death at last; and miserable it is
To be to others cause of misery,
Our own begotten, and of our loins to bring
Into this cursed world a woeful race,
That after wretched life must be at last
Food for so foul a monster; in thy power
It lies, yet ere conception to prevent
The race unblest, to being yet unbegot.
Childless thou art, childless remain: so Death
Shall be deceived his glut, and with us two
Be forced to satisfy his ravenous maw.
But if thou judge it hard and difficult,
Conversing, looking, loving, to abstain
From love's due rights, nuptial embraces sweet;
And with desire to languish without hope,
Before the present object languishing
With like desire; which would be misery
And torment less than none of what we dread;
Then, both ourselves and seed at once to free
From what we fear for both, let us make short, --
Let us seek Death; -- or, he not found, supply
With our own hands his office on ourselves:
Why stand we longer shivering under fears,
That show no end but death, and have the power,
Of many ways to die the shortest choosing,
Destruction with destruction to destroy? --
She ended here, or vehement despair
Broke off the rest: so much of death her thoughts
Had entertained, as dyed her cheeks with pale.
But Adam, with such counsel nothing swayed,
To better hopes his more attentive mind
Labouring had raised; and thus to Eve replied.
Eve, thy contempt of life and pleasure seems
To argue in thee something more sublime
And excellent, than what thy mind contemns;
But self-destruction therefore sought, refutes
That excellence thought in thee; and implies,
Not thy contempt, but anguish and regret
For loss of life and pleasure overloved.
Or if thou covet death, as utmost end
Of misery, so thinking to evade
The penalty pronounced; doubt not but God
Hath wiselier armed his vengeful ire, than so
To be forestalled; much more I fear lest death,
So snatched, will not exempt us from the pain
We are by doom to pay; rather, such acts
Of contumacy will provoke the Highest
To make death in us live:  Then let us seek
Some safer resolution, which methinks
I have in view, calling to mind with heed
Part of our sentence, that thy seed shall bruise
The Serpent's head; piteous amends! unless
Be meant, whom I conjecture, our grand foe,
Satan; who, in the serpent, hath contrived
Against us this deceit:  To crush his head
Would be revenge indeed! which will be lost
By death brought on ourselves, or childless days
Resolved, as thou proposest; so our foe
Shal 'scape his punishment ordained, and we
Instead shall double ours upon our heads.
No more be mentioned then of violence
Against ourselves; and wilful barrenness,
That cuts us off from hope; and savours only
Rancour and pride, impatience and despite,
Reluctance against God and his just yoke
Laid on our necks.  Remember with what mild
And gracious temper he both heard, and judged,
Without wrath or reviling; we expected
Immediate dissolution, which we thought
Was meant by death that day; when lo!to thee
Pains only in child-bearing were foretold,
And bringing forth; soon recompensed with joy,
Fruit of thy womb:  On me the curse aslope
Glanced on the ground; with labour I must earn
My bread; what harm? Idleness had been worse;
My labour will sustain me; and, lest cold
Or heat should injure us, his timely care
Hath, unbesought, provided; and his hands
Clothed us unworthy, pitying while he judged;
How much more, if we pray him, will his ear
Be open, and his heart to pity incline,
And teach us further by what means to shun
The inclement seasons, rain, ice, hail, and snow!
Which now the sky, with various face, begins
To show us in this mountain; while the winds
Blow moist and keen, shattering the graceful locks
Of these fair spreading trees; which bids us seek
Some better shroud, some better warmth to cherish
Our limbs benummed, ere this diurnal star
Leave cold the night, how we his gathered beams
Reflected may with matter sere foment;
Or, by collision of two bodies, grind
The air attrite to fire; as late the clouds
Justling, or pushed with winds, rude in their shock,
Tine the slant lightning; whose thwart flame, driven down
Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine;
And sends a comfortable heat from far,
Which might supply the sun:  Such fire to use,
And what may else be remedy or cure
To evils which our own misdeeds have wrought,
He will instruct us praying, and of grace
Beseeching him; so as we need not fear
To pass commodiously this life, sustained
By him with many comforts, till we end
In dust, our final rest and native home.
What better can we do, than, to the place
Repairing where he judged us, prostrate fall
Before him reverent; and there confess
Humbly our faults, and pardon beg; with tears
Watering the ground, and with our sighs the air
Frequenting, sent from hearts contrite, in sign
Of sorrow unfeigned, and humiliation meek.
Undoubtedly he will relent, and turn
From his displeasure; in whose look serene,
When angry most he seemed and most severe,
What else but favour, grace, and mercy, shone?
So spake our father penitent; nor Eve
Felt less remorse: they, forthwith to the place
Repairing where he judged them, prostrate fell
Before him reverent; and both confessed
Humbly their faults, and pardon begged; with tears
Watering the ground, and with their sighs the air
Frequenting, sent from hearts contrite, in sign
Of sorrow unfeigned, and humiliation meek.
Thus they, in lowliest plight, repentant stood
Praying; for from the mercy-seat above
Prevenient grace descending had removed
The stony from their hearts, and made new flesh
Regenerate grow instead; that sighs now breathed
Unutterable; which the Spirit of prayer
Inspired, and winged for Heaven with speedier flight
Than loudest oratory:  Yet their port
Not of mean suitors; nor important less
Seemed their petition, than when the ancient pair
In fables old, less ancient yet than these,
Deucalion and chaste Pyrrha, to restore
The race of mankind drowned, before the shrine
Of Themis stood devout.  To Heaven their prayers
Flew up, nor missed the way, by envious winds
Blown vagabond or frustrate: in they passed
Dimensionless through heavenly doors; then clad
With incense, where the golden altar fumed,
By their great intercessour, came in sight
Before the Father's throne: them the glad Son
Presenting, thus to intercede began.
See$ Father, what first-fruits on earth are sprung
From thy implanted grace in Man; these sighs
And prayers, which in this golden censer mixed
With incense, I thy priest before thee bring;
Fruits of more pleasing savour, from thy seed
Sown with contrition in his heart, than those
Which, his own hand manuring, all the trees
Of Paradise could have produced, ere fallen
From innocence.  Now therefore, bend thine ear
To supplication; hear his sighs, though mute;
Unskilful with what words to pray, let me
Interpret for him; me, his advocate
And propitiation; all his works on me,
Good, or not good, ingraft; my merit those
Shall perfect, and for these my death shall pay.
Accept me; and, in me, from these receive
The smell of peace toward mankind: let him live
Before thee reconciled, at least his days
Numbered, though sad; till death, his doom, (which I
To mitigate thus plead, not to reverse,)
To better life shall yield him: where with me
All my redeemed may dwell in joy and bliss;
Made one with me, as I with thee am one.
To whom the Father, without cloud, serene.
All thy request for Man, accepted Son,
Obtain; all thy request was my decree:
But, longer in that Paradise to dwell,
The law I gave to Nature him forbids:
Those pure immortal elements, that know,
No gross, no unharmonious mixture foul,
Eject him, tainted now; and purge him off,
As a distemper, gross, to air as gross,
And mortal food; as may dispose him best
For dissolution wrought by sin, that first
Distempered all things, and of incorrupt
Corrupted.  I, at first, with two fair gifts
Created him endowed; with happiness,
And immortality: that fondly lost,
This other served but to eternize woe;
Till I provided death: so death becomes
His final remedy; and, after life,
Tried in sharp tribulation, and refined
By faith and faithful works, to second life,
Waked in the renovation of the just,
Resigns him up with Heaven and Earth renewed.
But let us call to synod all the Blest,
Through Heaven's wide bounds: from them I will not hide
My judgements; how with mankind I proceed,
As how with peccant Angels late they saw,
And in their state, though firm, stood more confirmed.
He ended, and the Son gave signal high
To the bright minister that watched; he blew
His trumpet, heard in Oreb since perhaps
When God descended, and perhaps once more
To sound at general doom.  The angelick blast
Filled all the regions: from their blisful bowers
Of amarantine shade, fountain or spring,
By the waters of life, where'er they sat
In fellowships of joy, the sons of light
Hasted, resorting to the summons high;
And took their seats; till from his throne supreme
The Almighty thus pronounced his sovran will.
O Sons, like one of us Man is become
To know both good and evil, since his taste
Of that defended fruit; but let him boast
His knowledge of good lost, and evil got;
Happier! had it sufficed him to have known
Good by itself, and evil not at all.
He sorrows now, repents, and prays contrite,
My motions in him; longer than they move,
His heart I know, how variable and vain,
Self-left.  Lest therefore his now bolder hand
Reach also of the tree of life, and eat,
And live for ever, dream at least to live
For ever, to remove him I decree,
And send him from the garden forth to till
The ground whence he was taken, fitter soil.
Michael, this my behest have thou in charge;
Take to thee from among the Cherubim
Thy choice of flaming warriours, lest the Fiend,
Or in behalf of Man, or to invade
Vacant possession, some new trouble raise:
Haste thee, and from the Paradise of God
Without remorse drive out the sinful pair;
From hallowed ground the unholy; and denounce
To them, and to their progeny, from thence
Perpetual banishment.  Yet, lest they faint
At the sad sentence rigorously urged,
(For I behold them softened, and with tears
Bewailing their excess,) all terrour hide.
If patiently thy bidding they obey,
Dismiss them not disconsolate; reveal
To Adam what shall come in future days,
As I shall thee enlighten; intermix
My covenant in the Woman's seed renewed;
So send them forth, though sorrowing, yet in peace:
And on the east side of the garden place,
Where entrance up from Eden easiest climbs,
Cherubick watch; and of a sword the flame
Wide-waving; all approach far off to fright,
And guard all passage to the tree of life:
Lest Paradise a receptacle prove
To Spirits foul, and all my trees their prey;
With whose stolen fruit Man once more to delude.
He ceased; and the arch-angelick Power prepared
For swift descent; with him the cohort bright
Of watchful Cherubim: four faces each
Had, like a double Janus; all their shape
Spangled with eyes more numerous than those
Of Argus, and more wakeful than to drouse,
Charmed with Arcadian pipe, the pastoral reed
Of Hermes, or his opiate rod.  Mean while,
To re-salute the world with sacred light,
Leucothea waked; and with fresh dews imbalmed
The earth; when Adam and first matron Eve
Had ended now their orisons, and found
Strength added from above; new hope to spring
Out of despair; joy, but with fear yet linked;
Which thus to Eve his welcome words renewed.
Eve, easily my faith admit, that all
The good which we enjoy from Heaven descends;
But, that from us aught should ascend to Heaven
So prevalent as to concern the mind
Of God high-blest, or to incline his will,
Hard to belief may seem; yet this will prayer
Or one short sigh of human breath, upborne
Even to the seat of God.  For since I sought
By prayer the offended Deity to appease;
Kneeled, and before him humbled all my heart;
Methought I saw him placable and mild,
Bending his ear; persuasion in me grew
That I was heard with favour; peace returned
Home to my breast, and to my memory
His promise, that thy seed shall bruise our foe;
Which, then not minded in dismay, yet now
Assures me that the bitterness of death
Is past, and we shall live.  Whence hail to thee,
Eve rightly called, mother of all mankind,
Mother of all things living, since by thee
Man is to live; and all things live for Man.
To whom thus Eve with sad demeanour meek.
Ill-worthy I such title should belong
To me transgressour; who, for thee ordained
A help, became thy snare; to me reproach
Rather belongs, distrust, and all dispraise:
But infinite in pardon was my Judge,
That I, who first brought death on all, am graced
The source of life; next favourable thou,
Who highly thus to entitle me vouchsaf'st,
Far other name deserving.  But the field
To labour calls us, now with sweat imposed,
Though after sleepless night; for see!the morn,
All unconcerned with our unrest, begins
Her rosy progress smiling: let us forth;
I never from thy side henceforth to stray,
Where'er our day's work lies, though now enjoined
Laborious, till day droop; while here we dwell,
What can be toilsome in these pleasant walks?
Here let us live, though in fallen state, content.
So spake, so wished much humbled Eve; but Fate
Subscribed not:  Nature first gave signs, impressed
On bird, beast, air; air suddenly eclipsed,
After short blush of morn; nigh in her sight
The bird of Jove, stooped from his aery tour,
Two birds of gayest plume before him drove;
Down from a hill the beast that reigns in woods,
First hunter then, pursued a gentle brace,
Goodliest of all the forest, hart and hind;
Direct to the eastern gate was bent their flight.
Adam observed, and with his eye the chase
Pursuing, not unmoved, to Eve thus spake.
O Eve, some further change awaits us nigh,
Which Heaven, by these mute signs in Nature, shows
Forerunners of his purpose; or to warn
Us, haply too secure, of our discharge
From penalty, because from death released
Some days: how long, and what till then our life,
Who knows? or more than this, that we are dust,
And thither must return, and be no more?
Why else this double object in our sight
Of flight pursued in the air, and o'er the ground,
One way the self-same hour? why in the east
Darkness ere day's mid-course, and morning-light
More orient in yon western cloud, that draws
O'er the blue firmament a radiant white,
And slow descends with something heavenly fraught?
He erred not; for by this the heavenly bands
Down from a sky of jasper lighted now
In Paradise, and on a hill made halt;
A glorious apparition, had not doubt
And carnal fear that day dimmed Adam's eye.
Not that more glorious, when the Angels met
Jacob in Mahanaim, where he saw
The field pavilioned with his guardians bright;
Nor that, which on the flaming mount appeared
In Dothan, covered with a camp of fire,
Against the Syrian king, who to surprise
One man, assassin-like, had levied war,
War unproclaimed.  The princely Hierarch
In their bright stand there left his Powers, to seise
Possession of the garden; he alone,
To find where Adam sheltered, took his way,
Not unperceived of Adam; who to Eve,
While the great visitant approached, thus spake.
Eve$ now expect great tidings, which perhaps
Of us will soon determine, or impose
New laws to be observed; for I descry,
From yonder blazing cloud that veils the hill,
One of the heavenly host; and, by his gait,
None of the meanest; some great Potentate
Or of the Thrones above; such majesty
Invests him coming! yet not terrible,
That I should fear; nor sociably mild,
As Raphael, that I should much confide;
But solemn and sublime; whom not to offend,
With reverence I must meet, and thou retire.
He ended: and the Arch-Angel soon drew nigh,
Not in his shape celestial, but as man
Clad to meet man; over his lucid arms
A military vest of purple flowed,
Livelier than Meliboean, or the grain
Of Sarra, worn by kings and heroes old
In time of truce; Iris had dipt the woof;
His starry helm unbuckled showed him prime
In manhood where youth ended; by his side,
As in a glistering zodiack, hung the sword,
Satan's dire dread; and in his hand the spear.
Adam bowed low; he, kingly, from his state
Inclined not, but his coming thus declared.
Adam, Heaven's high behest no preface needs:
Sufficient that thy prayers are heard; and Death,
Then due by sentence when thou didst transgress,
Defeated of his seisure many days
Given thee of grace; wherein thou mayest repent,
And one bad act with many deeds well done
Mayest cover:  Well may then thy Lord, appeased,
Redeem thee quite from Death's rapacious claim;
But longer in this Paradise to dwell
Permits not: to remove thee I am come,
And send thee from the garden forth to till
The ground whence thou wast taken, fitter soil.
He added not; for Adam at the news
Heart-struck with chilling gripe of sorrow stood,
That all his senses bound; Eve, who unseen
Yet all had heard, with audible lament
Discovered soon the place of her retire.
O unexpected stroke, worse than of Death!
Must I thus leave thee$ Paradise? thus leave
Thee, native soil! these happy walks and shades,
Fit haunt of Gods? where I had hope to spend,
Quiet though sad, the respite of that day
That must be mortal to us both.  O flowers,
That never will in other climate grow,
My early visitation, and my last
;t even, which I bred up with tender hand
From the first opening bud, and gave ye names!
Who now shall rear ye to the sun, or rank
Your tribes, and water from the ambrosial fount?
Thee lastly, nuptial bower! by me adorned
With what to sight or smell was sweet! from thee
How shall I part, and whither wander down
Into a lower world; to this obscure
And wild? how shall we breathe in other air
Less pure, accustomed to immortal fruits?
Whom thus the Angel interrupted mild.
Lament not, Eve, but patiently resign
What justly thou hast lost, nor set thy heart,
Thus over-fond, on that which is not thine:
Thy going is not lonely; with thee goes
Thy husband; whom to follow thou art bound;
Where he abides, think there thy native soil.
Adam, by this from the cold sudden damp
Recovering, and his scattered spirits returned,
To Michael thus his humble words addressed.
Celestial, whether among the Thrones, or named
Of them the highest; for such of shape may seem
Prince above princes! gently hast thou told
Thy message, which might else in telling wound,
And in performing end us; what besides
Of sorrow, and dejection, and despair,
Our frailty can sustain, thy tidings bring,
Departure from this happy place, our sweet
Recess, and only consolation left
Familiar to our eyes! all places else
Inhospitable appear, and desolate;
Nor knowing us, nor known:  And, if by prayer
Incessant I could hope to change the will
Of Him who all things can, I would not cease
To weary him with my assiduous cries:
But prayer against his absolute decree
No more avails than breath against the wind,
Blown stifling back on him that breathes it forth:
Therefore to his great bidding I submit.
This most afflicts me, that, departing hence,
As from his face I shall be hid, deprived
His blessed countenance:  Here I could frequent
With worship place by place where he vouchsafed
Presence Divine; and to my sons relate,
'On this mount he appeared; under this tree
'Stood visible; among these pines his voice
'I heard; here with him at this fountain talked:
So many grateful altars I would rear
Of grassy turf, and pile up every stone
Of lustre from the brook, in memory,
Or monument to ages; and theron
Offer sweet-smelling gums, and fruits, and flowers:
In yonder nether world where shall I seek
His bright appearances, or foot-step trace?
For though I fled him angry, yet recalled
To life prolonged and promised race, I now
Gladly behold though but his utmost skirts
Of glory; and far off his steps adore.
To whom thus Michael with regard benign.
Adam, thou knowest Heaven his, and all the Earth;
Not this rock only; his Omnipresence fills
Land, sea, and air, and every kind that lives,
Fomented by his virtual power and warmed:
All the earth he gave thee to possess and rule,
No despicable gift; surmise not then
His presence to these narrow bounds confined
Of Paradise, or Eden: this had been
Perhaps thy capital seat, from whence had spread
All generations; and had hither come
From all the ends of the earth, to celebrate
And reverence thee, their great progenitor.
But this pre-eminence thou hast lost, brought down
To dwell on even ground now with thy sons:
Yet doubt not but in valley, and in plain,
God is, as here; and will be found alike
Present; and of his presence many a sign
Still following thee, still compassing thee round
With goodness and paternal love, his face
Express, and of his steps the track divine.
Which that thou mayest believe, and be confirmed
Ere thou from hence depart; know, I am sent
To show thee what shall come in future days
To thee, and to thy offspring: good with bad
Expect to hear; supernal grace contending
With sinfulness of men; thereby to learn
True patience, and to temper joy with fear
And pious sorrow; equally inured
By moderation either state to bear,
Prosperous or adverse: so shalt thou lead
Safest thy life, and best prepared endure
Thy mortal passage when it comes.--Ascend
This hill; let Eve (for I have drenched her eyes)
Here sleep below; while thou to foresight wakest;
As once thou sleptst, while she to life was formed.
To whom thus Adam gratefully replied.
Ascend, I follow thee, safe Guide, the path
Thou leadest me; and to the hand of Heaven submit,
However chastening; to the evil turn
My obvious breast; arming to overcome
By suffering, and earn rest from labour won,
If so I may attain. -- So both ascend
In the visions of God.  It was a hill,
Of Paradise the highest; from whose top
The hemisphere of earth, in clearest ken,
Stretched out to the amplest reach of prospect lay.
Not higher that hill, nor wider looking round,
Whereon, for different cause, the Tempter set
Our second Adam, in the wilderness;
To show him all Earth's kingdoms, and their glory.
His eye might there command wherever stood
City of old or modern fame, the seat
Of mightiest empire, from the destined walls
Of Cambalu, seat of Cathaian Can,
And Samarchand by Oxus, Temir's throne,
To Paquin of Sinaean kings; and thence
To Agra and Lahor of great Mogul,
Down to the golden Chersonese; or where
The Persian in Ecbatan sat, or since
In Hispahan; or where the Russian Ksar
In Mosco; or the Sultan in Bizance,
Turchestan-born; nor could his eye not ken
The empire of Negus to his utmost port
Ercoco, and the less maritim kings
Mombaza, and Quiloa, and Melind,
And Sofala, thought Ophir, to the realm
Of Congo, and Angola farthest south;
Or thence from Niger flood to Atlas mount
The kingdoms of Almansor, Fez and Sus,
Morocco, and Algiers, and Tremisen;
On Europe thence, and where Rome was to sway
The world: in spirit perhaps he also saw
Rich Mexico, the seat of Montezume,
And Cusco in Peru, the richer seat
Of Atabalipa; and yet unspoiled
Guiana, whose great city Geryon's sons
Call El Dorado.  But to nobler sights
Michael from Adam's eyes the film removed,
Which that false fruit that promised clearer sight
Had bred; then purged with euphrasy and rue
The visual nerve, for he had much to see;
And from the well of life three drops instilled.
So deep the power of these ingredients pierced,
Even to the inmost seat of mental sight,
That Adam, now enforced to close his eyes,
Sunk down, and all his spirits became entranced;
But him the gentle Angel by the hand
Soon raised, and his attention thus recalled.
Adam, now ope thine eyes; and first behold
The effects, which thy original crime hath wrought
In some to spring from thee; who never touched
The excepted tree; nor with the snake conspired;
Nor sinned thy sin; yet from that sin derive
Corruption, to bring forth more violent deeds.
His eyes he opened, and beheld a field,
Part arable and tilth, whereon were sheaves
New reaped; the other part sheep-walks and folds;
I' the midst an altar as the land-mark stood,
Rustick, of grassy sord; thither anon
A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought
First fruits, the green ear, and the yellow sheaf,
Unculled, as came to hand; a shepherd next,
More meek, came with the firstlings of his flock,
Choicest and best; then, sacrificing, laid
The inwards and their fat, with incense strowed,
On the cleft wood, and all due rights performed:
His offering soon propitious fire from Heaven
Consumed with nimble glance, and grateful steam;
The other's not, for his was not sincere;
Whereat he inly raged, and, as they talked,
Smote him into the midriff with a stone
That beat out life; he fell;and, deadly pale,
Groaned out his soul with gushing blood effused.
Much at that sight was Adam in his heart
Dismayed, and thus in haste to the Angel cried.
O Teacher, some great mischief hath befallen
To that meek man, who well had sacrificed;
Is piety thus and pure devotion paid?
To whom Michael thus, he also moved, replied.
These two are brethren, Adam, and to come
Out of thy loins; the unjust the just hath slain,
For envy that his brother's offering found
From Heaven acceptance; but the bloody fact
Will be avenged; and the other's faith, approved,
Lose no reward; though here thou see him die,
Rolling in dust and gore.  To which our sire.
Alas! both for the deed, and for the cause!
But have I now seen Death?  Is this the way
I must return to native dust?  O sight
Of terrour, foul and ugly to behold,
Horrid to think, how horrible to feel!
To whom thus Michael.  Death thou hast seen
In his first shape on Man; but many shapes
Of Death, and many are the ways that lead
To his grim cave, all dismal; yet to sense
More terrible at the entrance, than within.
Some, as thou sawest, by violent stroke shall die;
By fire, flood, famine, by intemperance more
In meats and drinks, which on the earth shall bring
Diseases dire, of which a monstrous crew
Before thee shall appear; that thou mayest know
What misery the inabstinence of Eve
Shall bring on Men.  Immediately a place
Before his eyes appeared, sad, noisome, dark;
A lazar-house it seemed; wherein were laid
Numbers of all diseased; all maladies
Of ghastly spasm, or racking torture, qualms
Of heart-sick agony, all feverous kinds,
Convulsions, epilepsies, fierce catarrhs,
Intestine stone and ulcer, colick-pangs,
Demoniack phrenzy, moaping melancholy,
And moon-struck madness, pining atrophy,
Marasmus, and wide-wasting pestilence,
Dropsies, and asthmas, and joint-racking rheums.
Dire was the tossing, deep the groans; Despair
Tended the sick busiest from couch to couch;
And over them triumphant Death his dart
Shook, but delayed to strike, though oft invoked
With vows, as their chief good, and final hope.
Sight so deform what heart of rock could long
Dry-eyed behold?  Adam could not, but wept,
Though not of woman born; compassion quelled
His best of man, and gave him up to tears
A space, till firmer thoughts restrained excess;
And, scarce recovering words, his plaint renewed.
O miserable mankind, to what fall
Degraded, to what wretched state reserved!
Better end here unborn.  Why is life given
To be thus wrested from us? rather, why
Obtruded on us thus? who, if we knew
What we receive, would either no accept
Life offered, or soon beg to lay it down;
Glad to be so dismissed in peace.  Can thus
The image of God in Man, created once
So goodly and erect, though faulty since,
To such unsightly sufferings be debased
Under inhuman pains?  Why should not Man,
Retaining still divine similitude
In part, from such deformities be free,
And, for his Maker's image sake, exempt?
Their Maker's image, answered Michael, then
Forsook them, when themselves they vilified
To serve ungoverned Appetite; and took
His image whom they served, a brutish vice,
Inductive mainly to the sin of Eve.
Therefore so abject is their punishment,
Disfiguring not God's likeness, but their own;
Or if his likeness, by themselves defaced;
While they pervert pure Nature's healthful rules
To loathsome sickness; worthily, since they
God's image did not reverence in themselves.
I yield it just, said Adam, and submit.
But is there yet no other way, besides
These painful passages, how we may come
To death, and mix with our connatural dust?
There is, said Michael, if thou well observe
The rule of Not too much; by temperance taught,
In what thou eatest and drinkest; seeking from thence
Due nourishment, not gluttonous delight,
Till many years over thy head return:
So mayest thou live; till, like ripe fruit, thou drop
Into thy mother's lap; or be with ease
Gathered, nor harshly plucked; for death mature:
This is Old Age; but then, thou must outlive
Thy youth, thy strength, thy beauty; which will change
To withered, weak, and gray; thy senses then,
Obtuse, all taste of pleasure must forego,
To what thou hast; and, for the air of youth,
Hopeful and cheerful, in thy blood will reign
A melancholy damp of cold and dry
To weigh thy spirits down, and last consume
The balm of life.  To whom our ancestor.
Henceforth I fly not death, nor would prolong
Life much; bent rather, how I may be quit,
Fairest and easiest, of this cumbrous charge;
Which I must keep till my appointed day
Of rendering up, and patiently attend
My dissolution.  Michael replied.
Nor love thy life, nor hate; but what thou livest
Live well; how long, or short, permit to Heaven:
And now prepare thee for another sight.
He looked, and saw a spacious plain, whereon
Were tents of various hue; by some, were herds
Of cattle grazing; others, whence the sound
Of instruments, that made melodious chime,
Was heard, of harp and organ; and, who moved
Their stops and chords, was seen; his volant touch,
Instinct through all proportions, low and high,
Fled and pursued transverse the resonant fugue.
In other part stood one who, at the forge
Labouring, two massy clods of iron and brass
Had melted, (whether found where casual fire
Had wasted woods on mountain or in vale,
Down to the veins of earth; thence gliding hot
To some cave's mouth; or whether washed by stream
From underground;) the liquid ore he drained
Into fit moulds prepared; from which he formed
First his own tools; then, what might else be wrought
Fusil or graven in metal.  After these,
But on the hither side, a different sort
From the high neighbouring hills, which was their seat,
Down to the plain descended; by their guise
Just men they seemed, and all their study bent
To worship God aright, and know his works
Not hid; nor those things last, which might preserve
Freedom and peace to Men; they on the plain
Long had not walked, when from the tents, behold!
A bevy of fair women, richly gay
In gems and wanton dress; to the harp they sung
Soft amorous ditties, and in dance came on:
The men, though grave, eyed them; and let their eyes
Rove without rein; till, in the amorous net
Fast caught, they liked; and each his liking chose;
And now of love they treat, till the evening-star,
Love's harbinger, appeared; then, all in heat
They light the nuptial torch, and bid invoke
Hymen, then first to marriage rites invoked:
With feast and musick all the tents resound.
Such happy interview, and fair event
Of love and youth not lost, songs, garlands, flowers,
And charming symphonies, attached the heart
Of Adam, soon inclined to admit delight,
The bent of nature; which he thus expressed.
True opener of mine eyes, prime Angel blest;
Much better seems this vision, and more hope
Of peaceful days portends, than those two past;
Those were of hate and death, or pain much worse;
Here Nature seems fulfilled in all her ends.
To whom thus Michael.  Judge not what is best
By pleasure, though to nature seeming meet;
Created, as thou art, to nobler end
Holy and pure, conformity divine.
Those tents thou sawest so pleasant, were the tents
Of wickedness, wherein shall dwell his race
Who slew his brother; studious they appear
Of arts that polish life, inventers rare;
Unmindful of their Maker, though his Spirit
Taught them; but they his gifts acknowledged none.
Yet they a beauteous offspring shall beget;
For that fair female troop thou sawest, that seemed
Of Goddesses, so blithe, so smooth, so gay,
Yet empty of all good wherein consists
Woman's domestick honour and chief praise;
Bred only and completed to the taste
Of lustful appetence, to sing, to dance,
To dress, and troll the tongue, and roll the eye:
To these that sober race of men, whose lives
Religious titled them the sons of God,
Shall yield up all their virtue, all their fame
Ignobly, to the trains and to the smiles
Of these fair atheists; and now swim in joy,
Erelong to swim at large; and laugh, for which
The world erelong a world of tears must weep.
To whom thus Adam, of short joy bereft.
O pity and shame, that they, who to live well
Entered so fair, should turn aside to tread
Paths indirect, or in the mid way faint!
But still I see the tenour of Man's woe
Holds on the same, from Woman to begin.
From Man's effeminate slackness it begins,
Said the Angel, who should better hold his place
By wisdom, and superiour gifts received.
But now prepare thee for another scene.
He looked, and saw wide territory spread
Before him, towns, and rural works between;
Cities of men with lofty gates and towers,
Concourse in arms, fierce faces threatening war,
Giants of mighty bone and bold emprise;
Part wield their arms, part curb the foaming steed,
Single or in array of battle ranged
Both horse and foot, nor idly mustering stood;
One way a band select from forage drives
A herd of beeves, fair oxen and fair kine,
From a fat meadow ground; or fleecy flock,
Ewes and their bleating lambs over the plain,
Their booty; scarce with life the shepherds fly,
But call in aid, which makes a bloody fray;
With cruel tournament the squadrons join;
Where cattle pastured late, now scattered lies
With carcasses and arms the ensanguined field,
Deserted:  Others to a city strong
Lay siege, encamped; by battery, scale, and mine,
Assaulting; others from the wall defend
With dart and javelin, stones, and sulphurous fire;
On each hand slaughter, and gigantick deeds.
In other part the sceptered heralds call
To council, in the city-gates; anon
Gray-headed men and grave, with warriours mixed,
Assemble, and harangues are heard; but soon,
In factious opposition; till at last,
Of middle age one rising, eminent
In wise deport, spake much of right and wrong,
Of justice, or religion, truth, and peace,
And judgement from above: him old and young
Exploded, and had seized with violent hands,
Had not a cloud descending snatched him thence
Unseen amid the throng: so violence
Proceeded, and oppression, and sword-law,
Through all the plain, and refuge none was found.
Adam was all in tears, and to his guide
Lamenting turned full sad; O!what are these,
Death's ministers, not men? who thus deal death
Inhumanly to men, and multiply
Ten thousandfold the sin of him who slew
His brother: for of whom such massacre
Make they, but of their brethren; men of men
But who was that just man, whom had not Heaven
Rescued, had in his righteousness been lost?
To whom thus Michael.  These are the product
Of those ill-mated marriages thou sawest;
Where good with bad were matched, who of themselves
Abhor to join; and, by imprudence mixed,
Produce prodigious births of body or mind.
Such were these giants, men of high renown;
For in those days might only shall be admired,
And valour and heroick virtue called;
To overcome in battle, and subdue
Nations, and bring home spoils with infinite
Man-slaughter, shall be held the highest pitch
Of human glory; and for glory done
Of triumph, to be styled great conquerours
Patrons of mankind, Gods, and sons of Gods;
Destroyers rightlier called, and plagues of men.
Thus fame shall be achieved, renown on earth;
And what most merits fame, in silence hid.
But he, the seventh from thee, whom thou beheldst
The only righteous in a world preverse,
And therefore hated, therefore so beset
With foes, for daring single to be just,
And utter odious truth, that God would come
To judge them with his Saints; him the Most High
Rapt in a balmy cloud with winged steeds
Did, as thou sawest, receive, to walk with God
High in salvation and the climes of bliss,
Exempt from death; to show thee what reward
Awaits the good; the rest what punishment;
Which now direct thine eyes and soon behold.
He looked, and saw the face of things quite changed;
The brazen throat of war had ceased to roar;
All now was turned to jollity and game,
To luxury and riot, feast and dance;
Marrying or prostituting, as befel,
Rape or adultery, where passing fair
Allured them; thence from cups to civil broils.
At length a reverend sire among them came,
And of their doings great dislike declared,
And testified against their ways; he oft
Frequented their assemblies, whereso met,
Triumphs or festivals; and to them preached
Conversion and repentance, as to souls
In prison, under judgements imminent:
But all in vain: which when he saw, he ceased
Contending, and removed his tents far off;
Then, from the mountain hewing timber tall,
Began to build a vessel of huge bulk;
Measured by cubit, length, and breadth, and highth;
Smeared round with pitch; and in the side a door
Contrived; and of provisions laid in large,
For man and beast: when lo, a wonder strange!
Of every beast, and bird, and insect small,
Came sevens, and pairs; and entered in as taught
Their order: last the sire and his three sons,
With their four wives; and God made fast the door.
Mean while the south-wind rose, and, with black wings
Wide-hovering, all the clouds together drove
From under Heaven; the hills to their supply
Vapour, and exhalation dusk and moist,
Sent up amain; and now the thickened sky
Like a dark cieling stood; down rushed the rain
Impetuous; and continued, till the earth
No more was seen: the floating vessel swum
Uplifted, and secure with beaked prow
Rode tilting o'er the waves; all dwellings else
Flood overwhelmed, and them with all their pomp
Deep under water rolled; sea covered sea,
Sea without shore; and in their palaces,
Where luxury late reigned, sea-monsters whelped
And stabled; of mankind, so numerous late,
All left, in one small bottom swum imbarked.
How didst thou grieve then, Adam, to behold
The end of all thy offspring, end so sad,
Depopulation!  Thee another flood,
Of tears and sorrow a flood, thee also drowned,
And sunk thee as thy sons; till, gently reared
By the Angel, on thy feet thou stoodest at last,
Though comfortless; as when a father mourns
His children, all in view destroyed at once;
And scarce to the Angel utter'dst thus thy plaint.
O visions ill foreseen!  Better had I
Lived ignorant of future! so had borne
My part of evil only, each day's lot
Enough to bear; those now, that were dispensed
The burden of many ages, on me light
At once, by my foreknowledge gaining birth
Abortive, to torment me ere their being,
With thought that they must be.  Let no man seek
Henceforth to be foretold, what shall befall
Him or his children; evil he may be sure,
Which neither his foreknowing can prevent;
And he the future evil shall no less
In apprehension than in substance feel,
Grievous to bear: but that care now is past,
Man is not whom to warn: those few escaped
Famine and anguish will at last consume,
Wandering that watery desart:  I had hope,
When violence was ceased, and war on earth,
All would have then gone well; peace would have crowned
With length of happy days the race of Man;
But I was far deceived; for now I see
Peace to corrupt no less than war to waste.
How comes it thus? unfold, celestial Guide,
And whether here the race of Man will end.
To whom thus Michael.  Those, whom last thou sawest
In triumph and luxurious wealth, are they
First seen in acts of prowess eminent
And great exploits, but of true virtue void;
Who, having spilt much blood, and done much wast
Subduing nations, and achieved thereby
Fame in the world, high titles, and rich prey;
Shall change their course to pleasure, ease, and sloth,
Surfeit, and lust; till wantonness and pride
Raise out of friendship hostile deeds in peace.
The conquered also, and enslaved by war,
Shall, with their freedom lost, all virtue lose
And fear of God; from whom their piety feigned
In sharp contest of battle found no aid
Against invaders; therefore, cooled in zeal,
Thenceforth shall practice how to live secure,
Worldly or dissolute, on what their lords
Shall leave them to enjoy; for the earth shall bear
More than enough, that temperance may be tried:
So all shall turn degenerate, all depraved;
Justice and temperance, truth and faith, forgot;
One man except, the only son of light
In a dark age, against example good,
Against allurement, custom, and a world
Offended: fearless of reproach and scorn,
The grand-child, with twelve sons encreased, departs
From Canaan, to a land hereafter called
Egypt, divided by the river Nile;
See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths
Into the sea:  To sojourn in that land
He comes, invited by a younger son
In time of dearth; a son, whose worthy deeds
Raise him to be the second in that realm
Of Pharaoh:  There he dies, and leaves his race
Growing into a nation, and now grown
Suspected to a sequent king, who seeks
To stop their overgrowth, as inmate guests
Or violence, he of their wicked ways
Shall them admonish; and before them set
The paths of righteousness, how much more safe
And full of peace; denouncing wrath to come
On their impenitence; and shall return
Of them derided, but of God observed
The one just man alive; by his command
Shall build a wonderous ark, as thou beheldst,
To save himself, and houshold, from amidst
A world devote to universal wrack.
No sooner he, with them of man and beast
Select for life, shall in the ark be lodged,
And sheltered round; but all the cataracts
Of Heaven set open on the Earth shall pour
Rain, day and night; all fountains of the deep,
Broke up, shall heave the ocean to usurp
Beyond all bounds; till inundation rise
Above the highest hills:  Then shall this mount
Of Paradise by might of waves be moved
Out of his place, pushed by the horned flood,
With all his verdure spoiled, and trees adrift,
Down the great river to the opening gulf,
And there take root an island salt and bare,
The haunt of seals, and orcs, and sea-mews' clang:
To teach thee that God attributes to place
No sanctity, if none be thither brought
By men who there frequent, or therein dwell.
And now, what further shall ensue, behold.
He looked, and saw the ark hull on the flood,
Which now abated; for the clouds were fled,
Driven by a keen north-wind, that, blowing dry,
Wrinkled the face of deluge, as decayed;
And the clear sun on his wide watery glass
Gazed hot, and of the fresh wave largely drew,
As after thirst; which made their flowing shrink
From standing lake to tripping ebb, that stole
With soft foot towards the deep; who now had stopt
His sluces, as the Heaven his windows shut.
The ark no more now floats, but seems on ground,
Fast on the top of some high mountain fixed.
And now the tops of hills, as rocks, appear;
With clamour thence the rapid currents drive,
Towards the retreating sea, their furious tide.
Forthwith from out the ark a raven flies,
And after him, the surer messenger,
A dove sent forth once and again to spy
Green tree or ground, whereon his foot may light:
The second time returning, in his bill
An olive-leaf he brings, pacifick sign:
Anon dry ground appears, and from his ark
The ancient sire descends, with all his train;
Then with uplifted hands, and eyes devout,
Grateful to Heaven, over his head beholds
A dewy cloud, and in the cloud a bow
Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay,
Betokening peace from God, and covenant new.
Whereat the heart of Adam, erst so sad,
Greatly rejoiced; and thus his joy broke forth.
O thou, who future things canst represent
As present, heavenly Instructer!  I revive
At this last sight; assured that Man shall live,
With all the creatures, and their seed preserve.
Far less I now lament for one whole world
Of wicked sons destroyed, than I rejoice
For one man found so perfect, and so just,
That God vouchsafes to raise another world
From him, and all his anger to forget.
But say, what mean those coloured streaks in Heaven
Distended, as the brow of God appeased?
Or serve they, as a flowery verge, to bind
The fluid skirts of that same watery cloud,
Lest it again dissolve, and shower the earth?
To whom the Arch-Angel.  Dextrously thou aimest;
So willingly doth God remit his ire,
Though late repenting him of Man depraved;
Grieved at his heart, when looking down he saw
The whole earth filled with violence, and all flesh
Corrupting each their way; yet, those removed,
Such grace shall one just man find in his sight,
That he relents, not to blot out mankind;
And makes a covenant never to destroy
The earth again by flood; nor let the sea
Surpass his bounds; nor rain to drown the world,
With man therein or beast; but, when he brings
Over the earth a cloud, will therein set
His triple-coloured bow, whereon to look,
And call to mind his covenant: Day and night,
Seed-time and harvest, heat and hoary frost,
Shall hold their course; till fire purge all things new,
Both Heaven and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell.
As one who in his journey bates at noon,
Though bent on speed; so here the Arch-Angel paused
Betwixt the world destroyed and world restored,
If Adam aught perhaps might interpose;
Then, with transition sweet, new speech resumes.
Thus thou hast seen one world begin, and end;
And Man, as from a second stock, proceed.
Much thou hast yet to see; but I perceive
Thy mortal sight to fail; objects divine
Must needs impair and weary human sense:
Henceforth what is to come I will relate;
Thou therefore give due audience, and attend.
This second source of Men, while yet but few,
And while the dread of judgement past remains
Fresh in their minds, fearing the Deity,
With some regard to what is just and right
Shall lead their lives, and multiply apace;
Labouring the soil, and reaping plenteous crop,
Corn, wine, and oil; and, from the herd or flock,
Oft sacrificing bullock, lamb, or kid,
With large wine-offerings poured, and sacred feast,
Shall spend their days in joy unblamed; and dwell
Long time in peace, by families and tribes,
Under paternal rule: till one shall rise
Of proud ambitious heart; who, not content
With fair equality, fraternal state,
Will arrogate dominion undeserved
Over his brethren, and quite dispossess
Concord and law of nature from the earth;
Hunting (and men not beasts shall be his game)
With war, and hostile snare, such as refuse
Subjection to his empire tyrannous:
A mighty hunter thence he shall be styled
Before the Lord; as in despite of Heaven,
Or from Heaven, claiming second sovranty;
And from rebellion shall derive his name,
Though of rebellion others he accuse.
He with a crew, whom like ambition joins
With him or under him to tyrannize,
Marching from Eden towards the west, shall find
The plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge
Boils out from under ground, the mouth of Hell:
Of brick, and of that stuff, they cast to build
A city and tower, whose top may reach to Heaven;
And get themselves a name; lest, far dispersed
In foreign lands, their memory be lost;
Regardless whether good or evil fame.
But God, who oft descends to visit men
Unseen, and through their habitations walks
To mark their doings, them beholding soon,
Comes down to see their city, ere the tower
Obstruct Heaven-towers, and in derision sets
Upon their tongues a various spirit, to rase
Quite out their native language; and, instead,
To sow a jangling noise of words unknown:
Forthwith a hideous gabble rises loud,
Among the builders; each to other calls
Not understood; till hoarse, and all in rage,
As mocked they storm: great laughter was in Heaven,
And looking down, to see the hubbub strange,
And hear the din:  Thus was the building left
Ridiculous, and the work Confusion named.
Whereto thus Adam, fatherly displeased.
O execrable son! so to aspire
Above his brethren; to himself assuming
Authority usurped, from God not given:
He gave us only over beast, fish, fowl,
Dominion absolute; that right we hold
By his donation; but man over men
He made not lord; such title to himself
Reserving, human left from human free.
But this usurper his encroachment proud
Stays not on Man; to God his tower intends
Siege and defiance:  Wretched man!what food
Will he convey up thither, to sustain
Himself and his rash army; where thin air
Above the clouds will pine his entrails gross,
And famish him of breath, if not of bread?
To whom thus Michael.  Justly thou abhorrest
That son, who on the quiet state of men
Such trouble brought, affecting to subdue
Rational liberty; yet know withal,
Since thy original lapse, true liberty
Is lost, which always with right reason dwells
Twinned, and from her hath no dividual being:
Reason in man obscured, or not obeyed,
Immediately inordinate desires,
And upstart passions, catch the government
From reason; and to servitude reduce
Man, till then free.  Therefore, since he permits
Within himself unworthy powers to reign
Over free reason, God, in judgement just,
Subjects him from without to violent lords;
Who oft as undeservedly enthrall
His outward freedom:  Tyranny must be;
Though to the tyrant thereby no excuse.
Yet sometimes nations will decline so low
From virtue, which is reason, that no wrong,
But justice, and some fatal curse annexed,
Deprives them of their outward liberty;
Their inward lost:  Witness the irreverent son
Of him who built the ark; who, for the shame
Done to his father, heard this heavy curse,
Servant of servants, on his vicious race.
Thus will this latter, as the former world,
Still tend from bad to worse; till God at last,
Wearied with their iniquities, withdraw
His presence from among them, and avert
His holy eyes; resolving from thenceforth
To leave them to their own polluted ways;
And one peculiar nation to select
From all the rest, of whom to be invoked,
A nation from one faithful man to spring:
Him on this side Euphrates yet residing,
Bred up in idol-worship:  O, that men
(Canst thou believe?) should be so stupid grown,
While yet the patriarch lived, who 'scaped the flood,
As to forsake the living God, and fall
To worship their own work in wood and stone
For Gods!  Yet him God the Most High vouchsafes
To call by vision, from his father's house,
His kindred, and false Gods, into a land
Which he will show him; and from him will raise
A mighty nation; and upon him shower
His benediction so, that in his seed
All nations shall be blest: he straight obeys;
Not knowing to what land, yet firm believes:
I see him, but thou canst not, with what faith
He leaves his Gods, his friends, and native soil,
Ur of Chaldaea, passing now the ford
To Haran; after him a cumbrous train
Of herds and flocks, and numerous servitude;
Not wandering poor, but trusting all his wealth
With God, who called him, in a land unknown.
Canaan he now attains; I see his tents
Pitched about Sechem, and the neighbouring plain
Of Moreh; there by promise he receives
Gift to his progeny of all that land,
From Hameth northward to the Desart south;
(Things by their names I call, though yet unnamed;)
From Hermon east to the great western Sea;
Mount Hermon, yonder sea; each place behold
In prospect, as I point them; on the shore
Mount Carmel; here, the double-founted stream,
Jordan, true limit eastward; but his sons
Shall dwell to Senir, that long ridge of hills.
This ponder, that all nations of the earth
Shall in his seed be blessed:  By that seed
Is meant thy great Deliverer, who shall bruise
The Serpent's head; whereof to thee anon
Plainlier shall be revealed.  This patriarch blest,
Whom faithful Abraham due time shall call,
A son, and of his son a grand-child, leaves;
Like him in faith, in wisdom, and renown:
The grandchild, with twelve sons increased, departs
From Canaan to a land hereafter called
Egypt, divided by the river Nile
See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths
Into the sea. To sojourn in that land
He comes, invited by a younger son
In time of dearth, a son whose worthy deeds
Raise him to be the second in that realm
Of Pharaoh. There he dies, and leaves his race
Growing into a nation, and now grown
Suspected to a sequent king, who seeks
To stop their overgrowth, as inmate guests
Too numerous; whence of guests he makes them slaves
Inhospitably, and kills their infant males:
Till by two brethren (these two brethren call
Moses and Aaron) sent from God to claim
His people from enthralment, they return,
With glory and spoil, back to their promised land.
But first, the lawless tyrant, who denies
To know their God, or message to regard,
Must be compelled by signs and judgements dire;
To blood unshed the rivers must be turned;
Frogs, lice, and flies, must all his palace fill
With loathed intrusion, and fill all the land;
His cattle must of rot and murren die;
Botches and blains must all his flesh emboss,
And all his people; thunder mixed with hail,
Hail mixed with fire, must rend the Egyptians sky,
And wheel on the earth, devouring where it rolls;
What it devours not, herb, or fruit, or grain,
A darksome cloud of locusts swarming down
Must eat, and on the ground leave nothing green;
Darkness must overshadow all his bounds,
Palpable darkness, and blot out three days;
Last, with one midnight stroke, all the first-born
Of Egypt must lie dead.  Thus with ten wounds
The river-dragon tamed at length submits
To let his sojourners depart, and oft
Humbles his stubborn heart; but still, as ice
More hardened after thaw; till, in his rage
Pursuing whom he late dismissed, the sea
Swallows him with his host; but them lets pass,
As on dry land, between two crystal walls;
Awed by the rod of Moses so to stand
Divided, till his rescued gain their shore:
Such wondrous power God to his saint will lend,
Though present in his Angel; who shall go
Before them in a cloud, and pillar of fire;
By day a cloud, by night a pillar of fire;
To guide them in their journey, and remove
Behind them, while the obdurate king pursues:
All night he will pursue; but his approach
Darkness defends between till morning watch;
Then through the fiery pillar, and the cloud,
God looking forth will trouble all his host,
And craze their chariot-wheels: when by command
Moses once more his potent rod extends
Over the sea; the sea his rod obeys;
On their embattled ranks the waves return,
And overwhelm their war:  The race elect
Safe toward Canaan from the shore advance
Through the wild Desart, not the readiest way;
Lest, entering on the Canaanite alarmed,
War terrify them inexpert, and fear
Return them back to Egypt, choosing rather
Inglorious life with servitude; for life
To noble and ignoble is more sweet
Untrained in arms, where rashness leads not on.
This also shall they gain by their delay
In the wide wilderness; there they shall found
Their government, and their great senate choose
Through the twelve tribes, to rule by laws ordained:
God from the mount of Sinai, whose gray top
Shall tremble, he descending, will himself
In thunder, lightning, and loud trumpets' sound,
Ordain them laws; part, such as appertain
To civil justice; part, religious rites
Of sacrifice; informing them, by types
And shadows, of that destined Seed to bruise
The Serpent, by what means he shall achieve
Mankind's deliverance.  But the voice of God
To mortal ear is dreadful:  They beseech
That Moses might report to them his will,
And terrour cease; he grants what they besought,
Instructed that to God is no access
Without Mediator, whose high office now
Moses in figure bears; to introduce
One greater, of whose day he shall foretel,
And all the Prophets in their age the times
Of great Messiah shall sing.  Thus, laws and rites
Established, such delight hath God in Men
Obedient to his will, that he vouchsafes
Among them to set up his tabernacle;
The Holy One with mortal Men to dwell:
By his prescript a sanctuary is framed
Of cedar, overlaid with gold; therein
An ark, and in the ark his testimony,
The records of his covenant; over these
A mercy-seat of gold, between the wings
Of two bright Cherubim; before him burn
Seven lamps as in a zodiack representing
The heavenly fires; over the tent a cloud
Shall rest by day, a fiery gleam by night;
Save when they journey, and at length they come,
Conducted by his Angel, to the land
Promised to Abraham and his seed:--The rest
Were long to tell; how many battles fought
How many kings destroyed; and kingdoms won;
Or how the sun shall in mid Heaven stand still
A day entire, and night's due course adjourn,
Man's voice commanding, 'Sun, in Gibeon stand,
'And thou moon in the vale of Aialon,
'Till Israel overcome! so call the third
From Abraham, son of Isaac; and from him
His whole descent, who thus shall Canaan win.
Here Adam interposed.  O sent from Heaven,
Enlightener of my darkness, gracious things
Thou hast revealed; those chiefly, which concern
Just Abraham and his seed: now first I find
Mine eyes true-opening, and my heart much eased;
Erewhile perplexed with thoughts, what would become
Of me and all mankind:  But now I see
His day, in whom all nations shall be blest;
Favour unmerited by me, who sought
Forbidden knowledge by forbidden means.
This yet I apprehend not, why to those
Among whom God will deign to dwell on earth
So many and so various laws are given;
So many laws argue so many sins
Among them; how can God with such reside?
To whom thus Michael.  Doubt not but that sin
Will reign among them, as of thee begot;
And therefore was law given them, to evince
Their natural pravity, by stirring up
Sin against law to fight: that when they see
Law can discover sin, but not remove,
Save by those shadowy expiations weak,
The blood of bulls and goats, they may conclude
Some blood more precious must be paid for Man;
Just for unjust; that, in such righteousness
To them by faith imputed, they may find
Justification towards God, and peace
Of conscience; which the law by ceremonies
Cannot appease; nor Man the mortal part
Perform; and, not performing, cannot live.
So law appears imperfect; and but given
With purpose to resign them, in full time,
Up to a better covenant; disciplined
From shadowy types to truth; from flesh to spirit;
From imposition of strict laws to free
Acceptance of large grace; from servile fear
To filial; works of law to works of faith.
And therefore shall not Moses, though of God
Highly beloved, being but the minister
Of law, his people into Canaan lead;
But Joshua, whom the Gentiles Jesus call,
His name and office bearing, who shall quell
The adversary-Serpent, and bring back
Through the world's wilderness long-wandered Man
Safe to eternal Paradise of rest.
Mean while they, in their earthly Canaan placed,
Long time shall dwell and prosper, but when sins
National interrupt their publick peace,
Provoking God to raise them enemies;
From whom as oft he saves them penitent
By Judges first, then under Kings; of whom
The second, both for piety renowned
And puissant deeds, a promise shall receive
Irrevocable, that his regal throne
For ever shall endure; the like shall sing
All Prophecy, that of the royal stock
Of David (so I name this king) shall rise
A Son, the Woman's seed to thee foretold,
Foretold to Abraham, as in whom shall trust
All nations; and to kings foretold, of kings
The last; for of his reign shall be no end.
But first, a long succession must ensue;
And his next son, for wealth and wisdom famed,
The clouded ark of God, till then in tents
Wandering, shall in a glorious temple enshrine.
Such follow him, as shall be registered
Part good, part bad; of bad the longer scroll;
Whose foul idolatries, and other faults
Heaped to the popular sum, will so incense
God, as to leave them, and expose their land,
Their city, his temple, and his holy ark,
With all his sacred things, a scorn and prey
To that proud city, whose high walls thou sawest
Left in confusion; Babylon thence called.
There in captivity he lets them dwell
The space of seventy years; then brings them back,
Remembering mercy, and his covenant sworn
To David, stablished as the days of Heaven.
Returned from Babylon by leave of kings
Their lords, whom God disposed, the house of God
They first re-edify; and for a while
In mean estate live moderate; till, grown
In wealth and multitude, factious they grow;
But first among the priests dissention springs,
Men who attend the altar, and should most
Endeavour peace: their strife pollution brings
Upon the temple itself: at last they seise
The scepter, and regard not David's sons;
Then lose it to a stranger, that the true
Anointed King Messiah might be born
Barred of his right; yet at his birth a star,
Unseen before in Heaven, proclaims him come;
And guides the eastern sages, who inquire
His place, to offer incense, myrrh, and gold:
His place of birth a solemn Angel tells
To simple shepherds, keeping watch by night;
They gladly thither haste, and by a quire
Of squadroned Angels hear his carol sung.
A virgin is his mother, but his sire
The power of the Most High:  He shall ascend
The throne hereditary, and bound his reign
With Earth's wide bounds, his glory with the Heavens.
He ceased, discerning Adam with such joy
Surcharged, as had like grief been dewed in tears,
Without the vent of words; which these he breathed.
O prophet of glad tidings, finisher
Of utmost hope! now clear I understand
What oft my steadiest thoughts have searched in vain;
Why our great Expectation should be called
The seed of Woman:  Virgin Mother, hail,
High in the love of Heaven; yet from my loins
Thou shalt proceed, and from thy womb the Son
Of God Most High: so God with Man unites!
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise
Expect with mortal pain:  Say where and when
Their fight, what stroke shall bruise the victor's heel.
To whom thus Michael.  Dream not of their fight,
As of a duel, or the local wounds
Of head or heel:  Not therefore joins the Son
Manhood to Godhead, with more strength to foil
Thy enemy; nor so is overcome
Satan, whose fall from Heaven, a deadlier bruise,
Disabled, not to give thee thy death's wound:
Which he, who comes thy Saviour, shall recure,
Not by destroying Satan, but his works
In thee, and in thy seed:  Nor can this be,
But by fulfilling that which thou didst want,
Obedience to the law of God, imposed
On penalty of death, and suffering death;
The penalty to thy transgression due,
And due to theirs which out of thine will grow:
So only can high Justice rest appaid.
The law of God exact he shall fulfil
Both by obedience and by love, though love
Alone fulfil the law; thy punishment
He shall endure, by coming in the flesh
To a reproachful life, and cursed death;
Proclaiming life to all who shall believe
In his redemption; and that his obedience,
Imputed, becomes theirs by faith; his merits
To save them, not their own, though legal, works.
For this he shall live hated, be blasphemed,
Seised on by force, judged, and to death condemned
A shameful and accursed, nailed to the cross
By his own nation; slain for bringing life:
But to the cross he nails thy enemies,
The law that is against thee, and the sins
Of all mankind, with him there crucified,
Never to hurt them more who rightly trust
In this his satisfaction; so he dies,
But soon revives; Death over him no power
Shall long usurp; ere the third dawning light
Return, the stars of morn shall see him rise
Out of his grave, fresh as the dawning light,
Thy ransom paid, which Man from death redeems,
His death for Man, as many as offered life
Neglect not, and the benefit embrace
By faith not void of works:  This God-like act
Annuls thy doom, the death thou shouldest have died,
In sin for ever lost from life; this act
Shall bruise the head of Satan, crush his strength,
Defeating Sin and Death, his two main arms;
And fix far deeper in his head their stings
Than temporal death shall bruise the victor's heel,
Or theirs whom he redeems; a death, like sleep,
A gentle wafting to immortal life.
Nor after resurrection shall he stay
Longer on earth, than certain times to appear
To his disciples, men who in his life
Still followed him; to them shall leave in charge
To teach all nations what of him they learned
And his salvation; them who shall believe
Baptizing in the profluent stream, the sign
Of washing them from guilt of sin to life
Pure, and in mind prepared, if so befall,
For death, like that which the Redeemer died.
All nations they shall teach; for, from that day,
Not only to the sons of Abraham's loins
Salvation shall be preached, but to the sons
Of Abraham's faith wherever through the world;
So in his seed all nations shall be blest.
Then to the Heaven of Heavens he shall ascend
With victory, triumphing through the air
Over his foes and thine; there shall surprise
The Serpent, prince of air, and drag in chains
Through all his realm, and there confounded leave;
Then enter into glory, and resume
His seat at God's right hand, exalted high
Above all names in Heaven; and thence shall come,
When this world's dissolution shall be ripe,
With glory and power to judge both quick and dead;
To judge the unfaithful dead, but to reward
His faithful, and receive them into bliss,
Whether in Heaven or Earth; for then the Earth
Shall all be Paradise, far happier place
Than this of Eden, and far happier days.
So spake the Arch-Angel Michael; then paused,
As at the world's great period; and our sire,
Replete with joy and wonder, thus replied.
O Goodness infinite, Goodness immense!
That all this good of evil shall produce,
And evil turn to good; more wonderful
Than that which by creation first brought forth
Light out of darkness!  Full of doubt I stand,
Whether I should repent me now of sin
By me done, and occasioned; or rejoice
Much more, that much more good thereof shall spring;
To God more glory, more good-will to Men
From God, and over wrath grace shall abound.
But say, if our Deliverer up to Heaven
Must re-ascend, what will betide the few
His faithful, left among the unfaithful herd,
The enemies of truth?  Who then shall guide
His people, who defend?  Will they not deal
Worse with his followers than with him they dealt?
Be sure they will, said the Angel; but from Heaven
He to his own a Comforter will send,
The promise of the Father, who shall dwell
His Spirit within them; and the law of faith,
Working through love, upon their hearts shall write,
To guide them in all truth; and also arm
With spiritual armour, able to resist
Satan's assaults, and quench his fiery darts;
What man can do against them, not afraid,
Though to the death; against such cruelties
With inward consolations recompensed,
And oft supported so as shall amaze
Their proudest persecutors:  For the Spirit,
Poured first on his Apostles, whom he sends
To evangelize the nations, then on all
Baptized, shall them with wonderous gifts endue
To speak all tongues, and do all miracles,
As did their Lord before them.  Thus they win
Great numbers of each nation to receive
With joy the tidings brought from Heaven:  At length
Their ministry performed, and race well run,
Their doctrine and their story written left,
They die; but in their room, as they forewarn,
Wolves shall succeed for teachers, grievous wolves,
Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven
To their own vile advantages shall turn
Of lucre and ambition; and the truth
With superstitions and traditions taint,
Left only in those written records pure,
Though not but by the Spirit understood.
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names,
Places, and titles, and with these to join
Secular power; though feigning still to act
By spiritual, to themselves appropriating
The Spirit of God, promised alike and given
To all believers; and, from that pretence,
Spiritual laws by carnal power shall force
On every conscience; laws which none shall find
Left them inrolled, or what the Spirit within
Shall on the heart engrave.  What will they then
But force the Spirit of Grace itself, and bind
His consort Liberty? what, but unbuild
His living temples, built by faith to stand,
Their own faith, not another's? for, on earth,
Who against faith and conscience can be heard
Infallible? yet many will presume:
Whence heavy persecution shall arise
On all, who in the worship persevere
Of spirit and truth; the rest, far greater part,
Will deem in outward rites and specious forms
Religion satisfied; Truth shall retire
Bestuck with slanderous darts, and works of faith
Rarely be found:  So shall the world go on,
To good malignant, to bad men benign;
Under her own weight groaning; till the day
Appear of respiration to the just,
And vengeance to the wicked, at return
Of him so lately promised to thy aid,
The Woman's Seed; obscurely then foretold,
Now ampler known thy Saviour and thy Lord;
Last, in the clouds, from Heaven to be revealed
In glory of the Father, to dissolve
Satan with his perverted world; then raise
From the conflagrant mass, purged and refined,
New Heavens, new Earth, ages of endless date,
Founded in righteousness, and peace, and love;
To bring forth fruits, joy and eternal bliss.
He ended; and thus Adam last replied.
How soon hath thy prediction, Seer blest,
Measured this transient world, the race of time,
Till time stand fixed!  Beyond is all abyss,
Eternity, whose end no eye can reach.
Greatly-instructed I shall hence depart;
Greatly in peace of thought; and have my fill
Of knowledge, what this vessel can contain;
Beyond which was my folly to aspire.
Henceforth I learn, that to obey is best,
And love with fear the only God; to walk
As in his presence; ever to observe
His providence; and on him sole depend,
Merciful over all his works, with good
Still overcoming evil, and by small
Accomplishing great things, by things deemed weak
Subverting worldly strong, and worldly wise
By simply meek: that suffering for truth's sake
Is fortitude to highest victory,
And, to the faithful, death the gate of life;
Taught this by his example, whom I now
Acknowledge my Redeemer ever blest.
To whom thus also the Angel last replied.
This having learned, thou hast attained the sum
Of wisdom; hope no higher, though all the stars
Thou knewest by name, and all the ethereal powers,
All secrets of the deep, all Nature's works,
Or works of God in Heaven, air, earth, or sea,
And all the riches of this world enjoyedst,
And all the rule, one empire; only add
Deeds to thy knowledge answerable; add faith,
Add virtue, patience, temperance; add love,
By name to come called charity, the soul
Of all the rest: then wilt thou not be loth
To leave this Paradise, but shalt possess
A Paradise within thee, happier far.--
Let us descend now therefore from this top
Of speculation; for the hour precise
Exacts our parting hence; and see!the guards,
By me encamped on yonder hill, expect
Their motion; at whose front a flaming sword,
In signal of remove, waves fiercely round:
We may no longer stay: go, waken Eve;
Her also I with gentle dreams have calmed
Portending good, and all her spirits composed
To meek submission: thou, at season fit,
Let her with thee partake what thou hast heard;
Chiefly what may concern her faith to know,
The great deliverance by her seed to come
(For by the Woman's seed) on all mankind:
That ye may live, which will be many days,
Both in one faith unanimous, though sad,
With cause, for evils past; yet much more cheered
With meditation on the happy end.
He ended, and they both descend the hill;
Descended, Adam to the bower, where Eve
Lay sleeping, ran before; but found her waked;
And thus with words not sad she him received.
Whence thou returnest, and whither wentest, I know;
For God is also in sleep; and dreams advise,
Which he hath sent propitious, some great good
Presaging, since with sorrow and heart's distress
Wearied I fell asleep:  But now lead on;
In me is no delay; with thee to go,
Is to stay here; without thee here to stay,
Is to go hence unwilling; thou to me
Art all things under $Heaven, all places thou,
Who for my wilful crime art banished hence.
This further consolation yet secure
I carry hence; though all by me is lost,
Such favour I unworthy am vouchsafed,
By me the Promised Seed shall all restore.
So spake our mother Eve; and Adam heard
Well pleased, but answered not:  For now, too nigh
The Arch-Angel stood; and, from the other hill
To their fixed station, all in bright array
The Cherubim descended; on the ground
Gliding meteorous, as evening-mist
Risen from a river o'er the marish glides,
And gathers ground fast at the labourer's heel
Homeward returning.  High in front advanced,
The brandished sword of God before them blazed,
Fierce as a comet; which with torrid heat,
And vapour as the Libyan air adust,
Began to parch that temperate clime; whereat
In either hand the hastening Angel caught
Our lingering parents, and to the eastern gate
Led them direct, and down the cliff as fast
To the subjected plain; then disappeared.
They, looking back, all the eastern side beheld
Of Paradise, so late their happy seat,
Waved over by that flaming brand; the gate
With dreadful faces thronged, and fiery arms:
Some natural tears they dropt, but wiped them soon;
The world was all before them, where to choose
Their place of rest, and Providence their guide:
They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow,
Through Eden took their solitary way.
THE END
Higgledy piggeldy
Archangel Rafael,
Speaking of Satan's re-
Bellion from God:
"Chap was decidedly
Turgiversational,
Given to lewdness and
Rodomontade."
Thus they in lowliest plight repentant stood
Praying, for from the Mercie-seat above
Prevenient Grace descending had remov'd
The stonie from thir hearts, and made new flesh
Regenerat grow instead, that sighs now breath'd
Unutterable, which the Spirit of prayer
Inspir'd, and wing'd for Heav'n with speedier flight
Then loudest Oratorie: yet thir port
Not of mean suiters, nor important less
Seem'd thir Petition, then when th' ancient Pair
In Fables old, less ancient yet then these,
Deucalion and chaste Pyrrha to restore
The Race of Mankind drownd, before the Shrine
Of Themis stood devout. To Heav'n thir prayers
Flew up, nor missed the way, by envious windes
Blow'n vagabond or frustrate: in they passd
Dimentionless through Heav'nly dores; then clad
With incense, where the Golden Altar fum'd,
By thir great Intercessor, came in sight
Before the Fathers Throne: Them the glad Son
Presenting, thus to intercede began.
See Father, what first fruits on Earth are sprung
From thy implanted Grace in Man, these Sighs
And Prayers, which in this Golden Censer, mixt
With Incense, I thy Priest before thee bring,
Fruits of more pleasing savour from thy seed
Sow'n with contrition in his heart, then those
Which his own hand manuring all the Trees
Of Paradise could have produc't, ere fall'n
From innocence. Now therefore bend thine eare
To supplication, heare his sighs though mute;
Unskilful with what words to pray, let mee
Interpret for him, mee his Advocate
And propitiation, all his works on mee
Good or not good ingraft, my Merit those
Shall perfet, and for these my Death shall pay.
Accept me, and in mee from these receave
The smell of peace toward Mankinde, let him live
Before thee reconcil'd, at least his days
Numberd, though sad, till Death, his doom (which I
To mitigate thus plead, not to reverse)
To better life shall yeeld him, where with mee
All my redeemd may dwell in joy and bliss,
Made one with me as I with thee am one.
To whom the Father, without Cloud, serene.
All thy request for Man, accepted Son,
Obtain, all thy request was my Decree:
But longer in that Paradise to dwell,
The Law I gave to Nature him forbids:
Those pure immortal Elements that know
No gross, no unharmoneous mixture foule,
Eject him tainted now, and purge him off
As a distemper, gross to aire as gross,
And mortal food, as may dispose him best
For dissolution wrought by Sin, that first
Distemperd all things, and of incorrupt
Corrupted. I at first with two fair gifts
Created him endowd, with Happiness
And Immortalitie: that fondly lost,
This other serv'd but to eternize woe;
Till I provided Death; so Death becomes
His final remedie, and after Life
Tri'd in sharp tribulation, and refin'd
By Faith and faithful works, to second Life,
Wak't in the renovation of the just,
Resignes him up with Heav'n and Earth renewd.
But let us call to Synod all the Blest
Through Heav'ns wide bounds; from them I will not hide
My judgments, how with Mankind I proceed,
As how with peccant Angels late they saw;
And in thir state, though firm, stood more confirmd.
He ended, and the Son gave signal high
To the bright Minister that watchd, hee blew
His Trumpet, heard in Oreb since perhaps
When God descended, and perhaps once more
To sound at general Doom. Th' Angelic blast
Filld all the Regions: from thir blissful Bowrs
Of Amarantin Shade, Fountain or Spring,
By the waters of Life, where ere they sate
In fellowships of joy: the Sons of Light
Hasted, resorting to the Summons high,
And took thir Seats; till from his Throne supream
Th' Almighty thus pronounced his sovran Will.
O Sons, like one of us Man is become
To know both Good and Evil, since his taste
Of that defended Fruit; but let him boast
His knowledge of Good lost, and Evil got,
Happier, had it suffic'd him to have known
Good by it self, and Evil not at all.
He sorrows now, repents, and prayes contrite,
My motions in him, longer then they move,
His heart I know, how variable and vain
Self-left. Least therefore his now bolder hand
Reach also of the Tree of Life, and eat,
And live for ever, dream at least to live
Forever, to remove him I decree,
And send him from the Garden forth to Till
The Ground whence he was taken, fitter soile.
Michael, this my behest have thou in charge,
Take to thee from among the Cherubim
Thy choice of flaming Warriours, least the Fiend
Or in behalf of Man, or to invade
Vacant possession som new trouble raise:
Hast thee, and from the Paradise of God
Without remorse drive out the sinful Pair,
From hallowd ground th' unholie, and denounce
To them and to thir Progenie from thence
Perpetual banishment. Yet least they faint
At the sad Sentence rigorously urg'd,
For I behold them soft'nd and with tears
Bewailing thir excess, all terror hide.
If patiently thy bidding they obey,
Dismiss them not disconsolate; reveale
To Adam what shall come in future dayes,
As I shall thee enlighten, intermix
My Cov'nant in the Womans seed renewd;
So send them forth, though sorrowing, yet in peace:
And on the East side of the Garden place,
Where entrance up from Eden easiest climbes,
Cherubic watch, and of a Sword the flame
Wide waving, all approach farr off to fright,
And guard all passage to the Tree of Life:
Least Paradise a receptacle prove
To Spirits foule, and all my Trees thir prey,
With whose stol'n Fruit Man once more to delude.
He ceas'd; and th' Archangelic Power prepar'd
For swift descent, with him the Cohort bright
Of watchful Cherubim; four faces each
Had, like a double Janus, all thir shape
Spangl'd with eyes more numerous then those
Of Argus, and more wakeful then to drouze,
Charm'd with Arcadian Pipe, the Pastoral Reed
Of Hermes, or his opiate Rod. Meanwhile
To resalute the World with sacred Light
Leucothia wak'd, and with fresh dews imbalmd
The Earth, when Adam and first Matron Eve
Had ended now thir Orisons, and found,
Strength added from above, new hope to spring
Out of despaire, joy, but with fear yet linkt;
Which thus to Eve his welcome words renewd.
Eve, easily may Faith admit, that all
The good which we enjoy, from Heav'n descends
But that from us ought should ascend to Heav'n
So prevalent as to concerne the mind
Of God high blest, or to incline his will,
Hard to belief may seem; yet this will Prayer,
Or one short sigh of humane breath, up-borne
Ev'n to the Seat of God. For since I saught
By Prayer th' offended Deitie to appease,
Kneel'd and before him humbl'd all my heart,
Methought I saw him placable and mild,
Bending his eare; perswasion in me grew
That I was heard with favour; peace returnd
Home to my brest, and to my memorie
His promise, that thy Seed shall bruise our Foe;
Which then not minded in dismay, yet now
Assures me that the bitterness of death
Is past, and we shall live. Whence Haile to thee,
Eve rightly call'd, Mother of all Mankind,
Mother of all things living, since by thee
Man is to live, and all things live for Man.
To whom thus Eve with sad demeanour meek.
Ill worthie I such title should belong
To me transgressour, who for thee ordaind
A help, became thy snare; to mee reproach
Rather belongs, distrust and all dispraise:
But infinite in pardon was my Judge,
That I who first brought Death on all, am grac't
The sourse of life; next favourable thou,
Who highly thus to entitle me voutsaf't,
Farr other name deserving. But the Field
To labour calls us now with sweat impos'd,
Though after sleepless Night; for see the Morn,
All unconcern'd with our unrest, begins
Her rosie progress smiling; let us forth,
I never from thy side henceforth to stray,
Wherere our days work lies, though now enjoind
Laborious, till day droop; while here we dwell,
What can be toilsom in these pleasant Walkes?
Here let us live, though in fall'n state, content.
So spake, so wish'd much-humbl'd Eve, but Fate
Subscrib'd not; Nature first gave Signs, imprest
On Bird, Beast, Aire, Aire suddenly eclips'd
After short blush of Morn; nigh in her sight
The Bird of Jove, stoopt from his aerie tour,
Two Birds of gayest plume before him drove:
Down from a Hill the Beast that reigns in Woods,
First Hunter then, pursu'd a gentle brace,
Goodliest of all the Forrest, Hart and Hinde;
Direct to th' Eastern Gate was bent thir flight.
Adam observ'd, and with his Eye the chase
Pursuing, not unmov'd to Eve thus spake.
O Eve, some furder change awaits us nigh,
Which Heav'n by these mute signs in Nature shews
Forerunners of his purpose, or to warn
Us haply too secure of our discharge
From penaltie, because from death releast
Some days; how long, and what till then our life,
Who knows, or more then this, that we are dust,
And thither must return and be no more.
VVhy else this double object in our sight
Of flight pursu'd in th' Air and ore the ground
One way the self-same hour? why in the East
Darkness ere Dayes mid-course, and Morning light
More orient in yon VVestern Cloud that draws
O're the blew Firmament a radiant white,
And slow descends, with somthing heav'nly fraught.
He err'd not, for by this the heav'nly Bands
Down from a Skie of Jasper lighted now
In Paradise, and on a Hill made alt,
A glorious Apparition, had not doubt
And carnal fear that day dimm'd Adams eye.
Not that more glorious, when the Angels met
Jacob in Mahanaim, where he saw
The field Pavilion'd with his Guardians bright;
Nor that which on the flaming Mount appeerd
In Dothan, cover'd with a Camp of Fire,
Against the Syrian King, who to surprize
One man, Assassin-like had levied Warr,
Warr unproclam'd. The Princely Hierarch
In thir bright stand, there left his Powers to seise
Possession of the Garden; hee alone,
To finde where Adam shelterd, took his way,
Not unperceav'd of Adam, who to Eve,
While the great Visitant approachd, thus spake.
Eve, now expect great tidings, which perhaps
Of us will soon determin, or impose
New Laws to be observ'd; for I descrie
From yonder blazing Cloud that veils the Hill
One of the heav'nly Host, and by his Gate
None of the meanest, some great Potentate
Or of the Thrones above, such Majestie
Invests him coming; yet not terrible,
That I should fear, nor sociably mild,
As Raphael, that I should much confide,
But solemn and sublime, whom not to offend,
With reverence I must meet, and thou retire.
He ended; and th' Arch-Angel soon drew nigh,
Not in his shape Celestial, but as Man
Clad to meet Man; over his lucid Armes
A militarie Vest of purple flowd
Livelier then Meliboean or the graine
Of Sarra, worn by Kings and Hero's old
In time of Truce; Iris had dipt the wooff;
His starrie Helme unbuckl'd shew'd him prime
In Manhood where Youth ended; by his side
As in a glistering Zodiac hung the Sword,
Satans dire dread, and in his hand the Spear.
Adam bowd low, hee Kingly from his State
Inclin'd not, but his coming thus declar'd.
Adam, Heav'ns high behest no Preface needs:
Sufficient that thy Prayers are heard, and Death,
Then due by sentence when thou didst transgress,
Defeated of his seisure many dayes
Giv'n thee of Grace, wherein thou may'st repent,
And one bad act with many deeds well done
Mayst cover: well may then thy Lord appeas'd
Redeem thee quite from Deaths rapacious claimes;
But longer in this Paradise to dwell
Permits not; to remove thee I am come,
And send thee from the Garden forth to till
The ground whence thou wast tak'n, fitter Soile.
He added not, for Adam at the newes
Heart-strook with chilling gripe of sorrow stood,
That all his senses bound; Eve, who unseen
Yet all had heard, with audible lament
Discover'd soon the place of her retire.
O unexpected stroke, worse then of Death!
Must I thus leave thee Paradise? thus leave
Thee Native Soile, these happie Walks and Shades,
Fit haunt of Gods? where I had hope to spend,
Quiet though sad, the respit of that day
That must be mortal to us both. O flours,
That never will in other Climate grow,
My early visitation, and my last
At Eev'n, which I bred up with tender hand
From the first op'ning bud, and gave ye Names,
Who now shall reare ye to the Sun, or ranke
Your Tribes, and water from th' ambrosial Fount?
Thee lastly nuptial Bowre, by mee adornd
With what to sight or smell was sweet; from thee
How shall I part, and whither wander down
Into a lower World, to this obscure
And wilde, how shall we breath in other Aire
Less pure, accustomd to immortal Fruits?
Whom thus the Angel interrupted milde.
Lament not Eve, but patiently resigne
What justly thou hast lost; nor set thy heart,
Thus over fond, on that which is not thine;
Thy going is not lonely, with thee goes
Thy Husband, him to follow thou art bound;
Where he abides, think there thy native soile.
Adam by this from the cold sudden damp
Recovering, and his scatterd spirits returnd,
To Michael thus his humble words addressd.
Celestial, whether among the Thrones, or nam'd
Of them the Highest, for such of shape may seem
Prince above Princes, gently hast thou tould
Thy message, which might else in telling wound,
And in performing end us; what besides
Of sorrow and dejection and despair
Our frailtie can sustain, thy tidings bring,
Departure from this happy place, our sweet
Recess, and onely consolation left
Familiar to our eyes, all places else
Inhospitable appeer and desolate,
Nor knowing us nor known: and if by prayer
Incessant I could hope to change the will
Of him who all things can, I would not cease
To wearie him with my assiduous cries:
But prayer against his absolute Decree
No more availes then breath against the winde,
Blown stifling back on him that breaths it forth:
Therefore to his great bidding I submit.
This most afflicts me, that departing hence,
As from his face I shall be hid, deprivd
His blessed count'nance; here I could frequent,
With worship, place by place where he voutsaf'd
Presence Divine, and to my Sons relate;
On this Mount he appeerd, under this Tree
Stood visible, among these Pines his voice
I heard, here with him at this Fountain talk'd:
So many grateful Altars I would reare
Of grassie Terfe, and pile up every Stone
Of lustre from the brook, in memorie,
Or monument to Ages, and thereon
Offer sweet smelling Gumms & Fruits and Flours:
In yonder nether World where shall I seek
His bright appearances, or footstep trace?
For though I fled him angrie, yet recall'd
To life prolongd and promisd Race, I now
Gladly behold though but his utmost skirts
Of glory, and farr off his steps adore.
To whom thus Michael with regard benigne.
Adam, thou know'st Heav'n his, and all the Earth
Not this Rock onely; his Omnipresence fills
Land, Sea, and Aire, and every kinde that lives,
Fomented by his virtual power and warmd:
All th' Earth he gave thee to possess and rule,
No despicable gift; surmise not then
His presence to these narrow bounds confin'd
Of Paradise or Eden: this had been
Perhaps thy Capital Seate, from whence had spred
All generations, and had hither come
From all the ends of th' Earth, to celebrate
And reverence thee thir great Progenitor.
But this præeminence thou hast lost, brought down
To dwell on eeven ground now with thy Sons:
Yet doubt not but in Vallie and in Plaine
God is as here, and will be found alike
Present, and of his presence many a signe
Still following thee, still compassing thee round
With goodness and paternal Love, his Face
Express, and of his steps the track Divine.
Which that thou mayst beleeve, and be confirmd,
Ere thou from hence depart, know I am sent
To shew thee what shall come in future dayes
To thee and to thy Ofspring; good with bad
Expect to hear, supernal Grace contending
With sinfulness of Men; thereby to learn
True patience, and to temper joy with fear
And pious sorrow, equally enur'd
By moderation either state to beare,
Prosperous or adverse: so shalt thou lead
Safest thy life, and best prepar'd endure
Thy mortal passage when it comes. Ascend
This Hill; let Eve (for I have drencht her eyes)
Here sleep below while thou to foresight wak'st,
As once thou slepst, while Shee to life was formd.
To whom thus Adam gratefully repli'd.
Ascend, I follow thee, safe Guide, the path
Thou lead'st me, and to the hand of Heav'n submit,
However chast'ning, to the evil turne
My obvious breast, arming to overcom
By suffering, and earne rest from labour won,
If so I may attain. So both ascend
In the Visions of God: It was a Hill
Of Paradise the highest, from whose top
The Hemisphere of Earth in cleerest Ken
Stretcht out to amplest reach of prospect lay.
Not higher that Hill nor wider looking round,
Whereon for different cause the Tempter set
Our second Adam in the Wilderness,
To shew him all Earths Kingdomes and thir Glory.
His Eye might there command wherever stood
City of old or modern Fame, the Seat
Of mightiest Empire, from the destind Walls
Of Cambalu, seat of Cathaian Can
And Samarchand by Oxus, Temirs Throne,
To Paquin of Sinæan Kings, and thence
To Agra and Lahor of great Mogul
Down to the golden Chersonese, or where
The Persian in Ecbatan sate, or since
In Hispahan, or where the Russian Ksar
In Mosco, or the Sultan in Bizance,
Turchestan-born; nor could his eye not ken
Th' Empire of Negus to his utmost Port
Ercoco and the less Maritine Kings
Mombaza, and Quiloa, and Melind,
And Sofala thought Ophir, to the Realme
Of Congo, and Angola fardest South;
Or thence from Niger Flood to Atlas Mount
The Kingdoms of Almansor, Fez, and Sus,
Marocco and Algiers, and Tremisen;
On Europe thence, and where Rome was to sway
The VVorld: in Spirit perhaps he also saw
Rich Mexico the seat of Motezume,
And Cusco in Peru, the richer seat
Of Atabalipa, and yet unspoil'd
Guiana, whose great Citie Geryons Sons
Call El Dorado: but to nobler sights
Michael from Adams eyes the Filme remov'd
VVhich that false Fruit that promis'd clearer sight
Had bred; then purg'd with Euphrasie and Rue
The visual Nerve, for he had much to see;
And from the VVell of Life three drops instill'd.
So deep the power of these Ingredients pierc'd,
Eevn to the inmost seat of mental sight,
That Adam now enforc't to close his eyes,
Sunk down and all his Spirits became intranst:
But him the gentle Angel by the hand
Soon rais'd, and his attention thus recall'd.
Adam, now ope thine eyes, and first behold
Th' effects which thy original crime hath wrought
In some to spring from thee, who never touch'd
Th' excepted Tree, nor with the Snake conspir'd,
Nor sinn'd thy sin, yet from that sin derive
Corruption to bring forth more violent deeds.
His eyes he op'nd, and beheld a field,
Part arable and tilth, whereon were Sheaves
New reapt, the other part sheep-walks and foulds;
Ith' midst an Altar as the Land-mark stood
Rustic, of grassie sord; thither anon
A sweatie Reaper from his Tillage brought
First Fruits, the green Eare, and the yellow Sheaf,
Uncull'd, as came to hand; a Shepherd next
More meek came with the Firstlings of his Flock
Choicest and best; then sacrificing, laid
The Inwards and thir Fat, with Incense strew'd,
On the cleft Wood, and all due Rites perform'd.
His Offring soon propitious Fire from Heav'n
Consum'd with nimble glance, and grateful steame;
The others not, for his was not sincere;
Whereat hee inlie rag'd, and as they talk'd,
Smote him into the Midriff with a stone
That beat out life; he fell, and deadly pale
Groand out his Soul with gushing bloud effus'd.
Much at that sight was Adam in his heart
Dismai'd, and thus in haste to th' Angel cri'd.
O Teacher, some great mischief hath befall'n
To that meek man, who well had sacrific'd;
Is Pietie thus and pure Devotion paid?
T' whom Michael thus, hee also mov'd, repli'd.
These two are Brethren, Adam, and to come
Out of thy loyns; th' unjust the just hath slain,
For envie that his Brothers Offering found
From Heav'n acceptance; but the bloodie Fact
Will be aveng'd, and th' others Faith approv'd
Loose no reward, though here thou see him die,
Rowling in dust and gore. To which our Sire.
Alas, both for the deed and for the cause!
But have I now seen Death? Is this the way
I must return to native dust? O sight
Of terrour, foul and ugly to behold,
Horrid to think, how horrible to feel!
To whom thus Michael. Death thou hast seen
In his first shape on man; but many shapes
Of Death, and many are the wayes that lead
To his grim Cave, all dismal; yet to sense
More terrible at th' entrance then within.
Some, as thou saw'st, by violent stroke shall die,
By Fire, Flood, Famin, by Intemperance more
In Meats and Drinks, which on the Earth shal bring
Diseases dire, of which a monstrous crew
Before thee shall appear; that thou mayst know
What miserie th' inabstinence of Eve
Shall bring on men. Immediately a place
Before his eyes appeard, sad, noysom, dark,
A Lazar-house it seemd, wherein were laid
Numbers of all diseas'd, all maladies
Of gastly Spasm, or racking torture, qualmes
Of heart-sick Agonie, all feavorous kinds,
Convulsions, Epilepsies, fierce Catarrhs,
Intestin Stone and Ulcer, Colic pangs,
Dropsies, and Asthma's, and Joint-racking Rheums.
Dire was the tossing, deep the groans, despair
Tended the sick busiest from Couch to Couch;
And over them triumphant Death his Dart
Shook, but delaid to strike, though oft invok't
With vows, as thir chief good, and final hope.
Sight so deform what heart of Rock could long
Drie-ey'd behold? Adam could not, but wept,
Though not of Woman born; compassion quell'd
His best of Man, and gave him up to tears
A space, till firmer thoughts restraind excess,
And scarce recovering words his plaint renew'd.
O miserable Mankind, to what fall
Degraded, to what wretched state reserv'd?
Better end heer unborn. Why is life giv'n
To be thus wrested from us? rather why
Obtruded on us thus? who if we knew
What we receive, would either not accept
Life offer'd, or soon beg to lay it down,
Glad to be so dismist in peace. Can thus
Th' Image of God in man created once
So goodly and erect, though faultie since,
To such unsightly sufferings be debas't
Under inhuman pains? Why should not Man,
Retaining still Divine similitude
In part, from such deformities be free,
And for his Makers Image sake exempt?
Thir Makers Image, answerd Michael, then
Forsook them, when themselves they villifi'd
To serve ungovern'd appetite, and took
His Image whom they serv'd, a brutish vice,
Inductive mainly to the sin of Eve.
Therefore so abject is thir punishment,
Disfiguring not Gods likeness, but thir own,
Or if his likeness, by themselves defac't
While they pervert pure Natures healthful rules
To loathsom sickness, worthily, since they
Gods Image did not reverence in themselves.
I yeild it just, said Adam, and submit.
But is there yet no other way, besides
These painful passages, how we may come
To Death, and mix with our connatural dust?
There is, said Michael, if thou well observe
The rule of not too much, by temperance taught
In what thou eatst and drinkst, seeking from thence
Due nourishment, not gluttonous delight,
Till many years over thy head return:
So maist thou live, till like ripe Fruit thou drop
Into thy Mothers lap, or be with ease
Gatherd, not harshly pluckt, for death mature:
This is old age; but then thou must outlive
Thy youth, thy strength, thy beauty, which will change
To witherd weak & gray; thy Senses then
Obtuse, all taste of pleasure must forgoe,
To what thou hast, and for the Aire of youth
Hopeful and cheerful, in thy blood will reigne
A melancholly damp of cold and dry
To waigh thy spirits down, and last consume
The Balme of Life. To whom our Ancestor.
Henceforth I flie not Death, nor would prolong
Life much, bent rather how I may be quit
Fairest and easiest of this combrous charge,
Which I must keep till my appointed day
Of rendring up. Michael to him repli'd.
Nor love thy Life, nor hate; but what thou livst
Live well, how long or short permit to Heav'n:
And now prepare thee for another sight.
He lookd and saw a spacious Plaine, whereon
Were Tents of various hue; by some were herds
Of Cattel grazing: others, whence the sound
Of Instruments that made melodious chime
Was heard, of Harp and Organ; and who moovd
Thir stops and chords was seen: his volant touch
Instinct through all proportions low and high
Fled and pursu'd transverse the resonant fugue.
In other part stood one who at the Forge
Labouring, two massie clods of Iron and Brass
Had melted (whether found where casual fire
Had wasted woods on Mountain or in Vale,
Down to the veins of Earth, thence gliding hot
To som Caves mouth, or whether washt by stream
From underground) the liquid Ore he dreind
Into fit moulds prepar'd; from which he formd
First his own Tooles; then, what might else be wrought
Fulfil or grav'n in mettle. After these,
But on the hether side a different sort
From the high neighbouring Hills, which was thir Seat,
Down to the Plain descended: by thir guise
Just men they seemd, and all thir study bent
To worship God aright, and know his works
Not hid, nor those things lost which might preserve
Freedom and Peace to men: they on the Plain
Long had not walkt, when from the Tents behold
A Beavie of fair Women, richly gay
In Gems and wanton dress; to the Harp they sung
Soft amorous Ditties, and in dance came on:
The Men though grave, ey'd them, and let thir eyes
Rove without rein, till in the amorous Net
Fast caught, they lik'd, and each his liking chose;
And now of love they treat till th' Eevning Star
Loves Harbinger appeerd; then all in heat
They light the Nuptial Torch, and bid invoke
Hymen, then first to marriage Rites invok't;
With Feast and Musick all the Tents resound.
Such happy interview and fair event
Of love & youth not lost, Songs, Garlands, Flours,
And charming Symphonies attach'd the heart
Of Adam, soon enclin'd to admit delight,
The bent of Nature; which he thus express'd.
True opener of mine eyes, prime Angel blest,
Much better seems this Vision, and more hope
Of peaceful dayes portends, then those two past;
Those were of hate and death, or pain much worse,
Here Nature seems fulfilld in all her ends.
To whom thus Michael. Judg not what is best
By pleasure, though to Nature seeming meet,
Created, as thou art, to nobler end
Holie and pure, conformitie divine.
Those Tents thou sawst so pleasant, were the Tents
Of wickedness, wherein shall dwell his Race
Who slew his Brother; studious they appere
Of Arts that polish Life, Inventers rare,
Unmindful of thir Maker, though his Spirit
Taught them, but they his gifts acknowledg'd none.
Yet they a beauteous ofspring shall beget;
For that fair femal Troop thou sawst, that seemd
Of Goddesses, so blithe, so smooth, so gay,
Yet empty of all good wherein consists
Womans domestic honour and chief praise;
Bred onely and completed to the taste
Of lustful apperence, to sing, to dance,
To dress, and troule the Tongue, and roule the Eye.
To these that sober Race of Men, whose lives
Religious titl'd them the Sons of God,
Shall yeild up all thir vertue, all thir fame
Ignobly, to the trains and to the smiles
Of these fair Atheists, and now swim in joy,
(Erelong to swim at larg) and laugh; for which
The world erelong a world of tears must weepe.
To whom thus Adam of short joy bereft.
O pittie and shame, that they who to live well
Enterd so faire, should turn aside to tread
Paths indirect, or in the mid way faint!
But still I see the tenor of Mans woe
Holds on the same, from Woman to begin.
From Mans effeminate slackness it begins,
Said th' Angel, who should better hold his place
By wisdome, and superiour gifts receavd.
But now prepare thee for another Scene.
He lookd and saw wide Territorie spred
Before him, Towns, and rural works between,
Cities of Men with lofty Gates and Towrs,
Concours in Arms, fierce Faces threatning Warr,
Giants of mightie Bone, and bould emprise;
Part wield thir Arms, part courb the foaming Steed,
Single or in Array of Battel rang'd
Both Horse and Foot, nor idely mustring stood;
One way a Band select from forage drives
A herd of Beeves, faire Oxen and faire Kine
From a fat Meddow ground; or fleecy Flock,
Ewes and thir bleating Lambs over the Plaine,
Thir Bootie; scarce with Life the Shepherds flye,
But call in aide, which tacks a bloody Fray;
With cruel Tournament the Squadrons joine;
Where Cattel pastur'd late, now scatterd lies
With Carcasses and Arms th' ensanguind Field
Deserted: Others to a Citie strong
Lay Siege, encampt; by Batterie, Scale, and Mine,
Assaulting; others from the Wall defend
With Dart and Jav'lin, Stones and sulfurous Fire;
On each hand slaughter and gigantic deeds.
In other part the scepter'd Haralds call
To Council in the Citie Gates: anon
Grey-headed men and grave, with Warriours mixt,
Assemble, and Harangues are heard, but soon
In factious opposition, till at last
Of middle Age one rising, eminent
In wise deport, spake much of Right and Wrong,
Of Justice, of Religion, Truth and Peace,
And Judgement from above: him old and young
Exploded, and had seiz'd with violent hands,
Had not a Cloud descending snatch'd him thence
Unseen amid the throng: so violence
Proceeded, and Oppression, and Sword-Law
Through all the Plain, and refuge none was found.
Adam was all in tears, and to his guide
Lamenting turnd full sad; O what are these,
Deaths Ministers, not Men, who thus deal Death
Inhumanly to men, and multiply
Ten thousand fould the sin of him who slew
His Brother; for of whom such massacher
Make they but of thir Brethren, men of men?
But who was that Just Man, whom had not Heav'n
Rescu'd, had in his Righteousness bin lost?
To whom thus Michael: These are the product
Of those ill-mated Marriages thou saw'st;
Where good with bad were matcht, who of themselves
Abhor to joyn; and by imprudence mixt,
Produce prodigious Births of bodie or mind.
Such were these Giants, men of high renown;
For in those dayes Might onely shall be admir'd,
And Valour and Heroic Vertu call'd;
To overcome in Battel, and subdue
Nations, and bring home spoils with infinite
Man-slaughter, shall be held the highest pitch
Of human Glorie, and for Glorie done
Of triumph, to be styl'd great Conquerours,
Patrons of Mankind, Gods, and Sons of Gods,
Destroyers rightlier call'd and Plagues of men.
Thus Fame shall be achiev'd, renown on Earth,
And what most merits fame in silence hid.
But hee the seventh from thee, whom thou beheldst
The onely righteous in a World perverse,
And therefore hated, therefore so beset
With Foes for daring single to be just,
And utter odious Truth, that God would come
To judge them with his Saints: Him the most High
Rapt in a balmie Cloud with winged Steeds
Did, as thou sawst, receave, to walk with God
High in Salvation and the Climes of bliss,
Exempt from Death; to shew thee what reward
Awaits the good, the rest what punishment;
Which now direct thine eyes and soon behold.
He look'd, & saw the face of things quite chang'd;
The brazen Throat of Warr had ceast to roar,
All now was turn'd to jollitie and game,
To luxurie and riot, feast and dance,
Marrying or prostituting, as befell,
Rape or Adulterie, where passing faire
Allurd them; thence from Cups to civil Broiles.
At length a Reverend Sire among them came,
And of thir doings great dislike declar'd,
And testifi'd against thir wayes; hee oft
Frequented thir Assemblies, whereso met,
Triumphs or Festivals, and to them preachd
Conversion and Repentance, as to Souls
In prison under Judgements imminent:
But all in vain: which when he saw, he ceas'd
Contending, and remov'd his Tents farr off;
Then from the Mountain hewing Timber tall,
Began to build a Vessel of huge bulk,
Measur'd by Cubit, length, & breadth, and highth,
Smeard round with Pitch, and in the side a dore
Contriv'd, and of provisions laid in large
For Man and Beast: when loe a wonder strange!
Of everie Beast, and Bird, and Insect small
Came seavens, and pairs, and enterd in, as taught
Thir order; last the Sire, and his three Sons
With thir four Wives, and God made fast the dore.
Meanwhile the Southwind rose, & with black wings
Wide hovering, all the Clouds together drove
From under Heav'n; the Hills to their supplie
Vapour, and Exhalation dusk and moist,
Sent up amain; and now the thick'nd Skie
Like a dark Ceeling stood; down rush'd the Rain
Impetuous, and continu'd till the Earth
No more was seen; the floating Vessel swum
Uplifted; and secure with beaked prow
Rode tilting o're the Waves, all dwellings else
Flood overwhelmd, and them with all thir pomp
Deep under water rould; Sea cover'd Sea,
Sea without shoar; and in thir Palaces
Where luxurie late reign'd, Sea-monsters whelp'd
And stabl'd; of Mankind, so numerous late,
All left, in one small bottom swum imbark't.
How didst thou grieve then, Adam, to behold
The end of all thy Ofspring, end so sad,
Depopulation; thee another Floud,
Of tears and sorrow a Floud thee also drown'd,
And sunk thee as thy Sons; till gently reard
By th' Angel, on thy feet thou stoodst at last,
Though comfortless, as when a Father mourns
His Childern, all in view destroyd at once;
And scarce to th' Angel utterdst thus thy plaint.
O Visions ill foreseen! better had I
Liv'd ignorant of future, so had borne
My part of evil onely, each dayes lot
Anough to bear; those now, that were dispenst
The burd'n of many Ages, on me light
At once, by my foreknowledge gaining Birth
Abortive, to torment me ere thir being,
With thought that they must be. Let no man seek
Henceforth to be foretold what shall befall
Him or his Childern, evil he may be sure,
Which neither his foreknowing can prevent,
And hee the future evil shall no less
In apprehension then in substance feel
Grievous to bear: but that care now is past,
Man is not whom to warne: those few escap't
Famin and anguish will at last consume
Wandring that watrie Desert: I had hope
When violence was ceas't, and Warr on Earth,
All would have then gon well, peace would have crownd
With length of happy days the race of man;
But I was farr deceav'd; for now I see
Peace to corrupt no less then Warr to waste.
How comes it thus? unfould, Celestial Guide,
And whether here the Race of man will end.
To whom thus Michael. Those whom last thou sawst
In triumph and luxurious wealth, are they
First seen in acts of prowess eminent
And great exploits, but of true vertu void;
Who having spilt much blood, and don much waste
Subduing Nations, and achievd thereby
Fame in the World, high titles, and rich prey,
Shall change thir course to pleasure, ease, and sloth,
Surfet, and lust, till wantonness and pride
Raise out of friendship hostil deeds in Peace.
The conquerd also, and enslav'd by Warr
Shall with thir freedom lost all vertu loose
And feare of God, from whom thir pietie feign'd
In sharp contest of Battel found no aide
Against invaders; therefore coold in zeale
Thenceforth shall practice how to live secure,
Worldlie or dissolute, on what thir Lords
Shall leave them to enjoy; for th' Earth shall bear
More then anough, that temperance may be tri'd:
So all shall turn degenerate, all deprav'd,
Justice and Temperance, Truth and Faith forgot;
One Man except, the onely Son of light
In a dark Age, against example good,
Against allurement, custom, and a World
Offended; fearless of reproach and scorn,
Or violence, hee of thir wicked wayes
Shall them admonish, and before them set
The paths of righteousness, how much more safe,
And full of peace, denouncing wrauth to come
On thir impenitence; and shall returne
Of them derided, but of God observd
The one just Man alive; by his command
Shall build a wondrous Ark, as thou beheldst,
To save himself and houshold from amidst
A World devote to universal rack.
No sooner hee with them of Man and Beast
Select for life shall in the Ark be lodg'd,
And shelterd round, but all the Cataracts
Of Heav'n set open on the Earth shall powre
Raine day and night, all fountaines of the Deep
Broke up, shall heave the Ocean to usurp
Beyond all bounds, till inundation rise
Above the highest Hills: then shall this Mount
Of Paradise by might of Waves be moovd
Out of his place, pushd by the horned floud,
With all his verdure spoil'd, and Trees adrift
Down the great River to the op'ning Gulf,
And there take root an Iland salt and bare,
The haunt of Seales and Orcs, and Sea-mews clang.
To teach thee that God attributes to place
No sanctitie, if none be thither brought
By Men who there frequent, or therein dwell.
And now what further shall ensue, behold.
He lookd, and saw the Ark hull on the floud,
Which now abated, for the Clouds were fled,
Drivn by a keen North-winde, that blowing drie
Wrinkl'd the face of Deluge, as decai'd;
And the cleer Sun on his wide watrie Glass
Gaz'd hot, and of the fresh Wave largely drew,
As after thirst, which made thir flowing shrink
From standing lake to tripping ebbe, that stole
With soft foot towards the deep, who now had stopt
His Sluces, as the Heav'n his windows shut.
The Ark no more now flotes, but seems on ground
Fast on the top of som high mountain fixt.
And now the tops of Hills as Rocks appeer;
With clamor thence the rapid Currents drive
Towards the retreating Sea thir furious tyde.
Forthwith from out the Arke a Raven flies,
And after him, the surer messenger,
A Dove sent forth once and agen to spie
Green Tree or ground whereon his foot may light;
The second time returning, in his Bill
An Olive leafe he brings, pacific signe:
Anon drie ground appeers, and from his Arke
The ancient Sire descends with all his Train;
Then with uplifted hands, and eyes devout,
Grateful to Heav'n, over his head beholds
A dewie Cloud, and in the Cloud a Bow
Conspicuous with three lifted colours gay,
Betok'ning peace from God, and Cov'nant new.
Whereat the heart of Adam erst so sad
Greatly rejoyc'd, and thus his joy broke forth.
O thou that future things canst represent
As present, Heav'nly instructer, I revive
At this last sight, assur'd that Man shall live
With all the Creatures, and thir seed preserve.
Farr less I now lament for one whole World
Of wicked Sons destroyd, then I rejoyce
For one Man found so perfet and so just,
That God voutsafes to raise another World
From him, and all his anger to forget.
But say, what mean those colourd streaks in Heavn,
Distended as the Brow of God appeas'd,
Or serve they as a flourie verge to binde
The fluid skirts of that same watrie Cloud,
Least it again dissolve and showr the Earth?
To whom th' Archangel. Dextrously thou aim'st;
So willingly doth God remit his Ire,
Though late repenting him of Man deprav'd,
Griev'd at his heart, when looking down he saw
The whole Earth fill'd with violence, and all flesh
Corrupting each thir way; yet those remoov'd,
Such grace shall one just Man find in his sight,
That he relents, not to blot out mankind,
And makes a Covenant never to destroy
The Earth again by flood, nor let the Sea
Surpass his bounds, nor Rain to drown the World
With Man therein or Beast; but when he brings
Over the Earth a Cloud, will therein set
His triple-colour'd Bow, whereon to look
And call to mind his Cov'nant: Day and Night,
Seed time and Harvest, Heat and hoary Frost
Shall hold thir course, till fire purge all things new,
Both Heav'n and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell.
Thus thou hast seen one World begin and end;
And Man as from a second stock proceed.
Much thou hast yet to see, but I perceave
Thy mortal sight to faile; objects divine
Must needs impaire and wearie human sense:
Henceforth what is to com I will relate,
Thou therefore give due audience, and attend.
This second sours of Men, while yet but few,
And while the dread of judgement past remains
Fresh in thir mindes, fearing the Deitie,
With some regard to what is just and right
Shall lead thir lives, and multiplie apace,
Labouring the soile, and reaping plenteous crop,
Corn wine and oyle; and from the herd or flock,
Oft sacrificing Bullock, Lamb, or Kid,
With large Wine-offerings pour'd, and sacred Feast
Shal spend thir dayes in joy unblam'd, and dwell
Long time in peace by Families and Tribes
Under paternal rule; till one shall rise
Of proud ambitious heart, who not content
With fair equalitie, fraternal state,
Will arrogate Dominion undeserv'd
Over his brethren, and quite dispossess
Concord and law of Nature from the Earth;
Hunting (and Men not Beasts shall be his game)
With Warr and hostile snare such as refuse
Subjection to his Empire tyrannous:
A mightie Hunter thence he shall be styl'd
Before the Lord, as in despite of Heav'n,
Or from Heav'n claming second Sovrantie;
And from Rebellion shall derive his name,
Though of Rebellion others he accuse.
Hee with a crew, whom like Ambition joyns
With him or under him to tyrannize,
Marching from Eden towards the West, shall finde
The Plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge
Boiles out from under ground, the mouth of Hell;
Of Brick, and of that stuff they cast to build
A Citie & Towre, whose top may reach to Heav'n;
And get themselves a name, least far disperst
In foraign Lands thir memorie be lost,
Regardless whether good or evil fame.
But God who oft descends to visit men
Unseen, and through thir habitations walks
To mark thir doings, them beholding soon,
Comes down to see thir Citie, ere the Tower
Obstruct Heav'n Towrs, and in derision sets
Upon thir Tongues a various Spirit to rase
Quite out thir Native Language, and instead
To sow a jangling noise of words unknown:
Forthwith a hideous gabble rises loud
Among the Builders; each to other calls
Not understood, till hoarse, and all in rage,
As mockt they storm; great laughter was in Heav'n
And looking down, to see the hubbub strange
And hear the din; thus was the building left
Ridiculous, and the work Confusion nam'd.
Whereto thus Adam fatherly displeas'd.
O execrable Son so to aspire
Above his Brethren, to himself affirming
Authoritie usurpt, from God not giv'n:
He gave us onely over Beast, Fish, Fowl
Dominion absolute; that right we hold
By his donation; but Man over men
He made not Lord; such title to himself
Reserving, human left from human free.
But this Usurper his encroachment proud
Stayes not on Man; to God his Tower intends
Siege and defiance: Wretched man! what food
Will he convey up thither to sustain
Himself and his rash Armie, where thin Aire
Above the Clouds will pine his entrails gross,
And famish him of Breath, if not of Bread?
To whom thus Michael. Justly thou abhorr'st
That Son, who on the quiet state of men
Such trouble brought, affecting to subdue
Rational Libertie; yet know withall,
Since thy original lapse, true Libertie
Is lost, which alwayes with right Reason dwells
Twinn'd, and from her hath no dividual being:
Reason in man obscur'd, or not obeyd,
Immediately inordinate desires
And upstart Passions catch the Government
From Reason, and to servitude reduce
Man till then free. Therefore since hee permits
Within himself unworthie Powers to reign
Over free Reason, God in Judgement just
Subjects him from without to violent Lords;
Who oft as undeservedly enthrall
His outward freedom: Tyrannie must be,
Though to the Tyrant thereby no excuse.
Yet somtimes Nations will decline so low
From vertue, which is reason, that no wrong,
But Justice, and some fatal curse annext
Deprives them of thir outward libertie,
Thir inward lost: Witness th' irreverent Son
Of him who built the Ark, who for the shame
Don to his Father, heard this heavie curse,
Servant of servants, on his vitious Race.
Thus will this latter, as the former World,
Still tend from bad to worse, till God at last
Wearied with their iniquities, withdraw
His presence from among them, and avert
His holy Eyes; resolving from thenceforth
To leave them to thir own polluted wayes;
And one peculiar Nation to select
From all the rest, of whom to be invok'd,
A Nation from one faithful man to spring:
Him on this side Euphrates yet residing,
Bred up in Idol-worship; O that men
(Canst thou believe?) should be so stupid grown,
While yet the Patriark liv'd, who scap'd the Flood,
As to forsake the living God, and fall
To-worship thir own work in Wood and Stone
For Gods! yet him God the most High voutsafes
To call by Vision from his Fathers house,
His kindred and false Gods, into a Land
Which he will shew him, and from him will raise
A mightie Nation, and upon him showre
His benediction so, that in his Seed
All Nations shall be blest; hee straight obeys,
Not knowing to what Land, yet firm believes:
I see him, but thou canst not, with what Faith
He leaves his Gods, his Friends, and native Soile
Ur of Chaldæa, passing now the Ford
To Haran, after him a cumbrous Train
Of Herds and Flocks, and numerous servitude;
Not wandring poor, but trusting all his wealth
With God, who call'd him, in a land unknown.
Canaan he now attains, I see his Tents
Pitcht about Sechem, and the neighbouring Plaine
Of Moreb; there by promise he receaves
Gift to his Progenie of all that Land;
From Hamath Northward to the Desert South
(Things by thir names I call, though yet unnam'd)
From Hermon East to the great Western Sea,
Mount Hermon, yonder Sea, each place behold
In prospect, as I point them; on the shoare
Mount Carmel; here the double-founted stream
Jordan, true limit Eastward; but his Sons
Shall dwell to Senir; that long ridge of Hills.
This ponder, that all Nations of the Earth
Shall in his Seed be blessed; by that Seed
Is meant thy great deliverer, who shall bruise
The Serpents head; whereof to thee anon
Plainlier shall be reveald. This Patriarch blest,
Whom faithful Abraham due time shall call,
A Son, and of his Son a Grand-childe leaves,
Like him in faith, in wisdom, and renown;
The Grandchilde with twelve Sons increast, departs
From Canaan, to a Land hereafter call'd
Egypt, divided by the River Nile;
See where it flows, disgorging at seaven mouthes
Into the Sea: to sojourn in that Land
He comes invited by a yonger Son
In time of dearth, a Son whose worthy deeds
Raise him to be the second in that Realme
Of Pharao: there he dies, and leaves his Race
Growing into a Nation, and now grown
Suspected to a sequent King, who seeks
To stop their overgrowth, as inmate guests
Too numerous; whence of guests he makes them slaves
Inhospitably, and kills thir infant Males:
Till by two brethren (those two brethren call
Moses and Aaron) sent from God to claime
His people from enthralment, they return
With glory and spoile back to thir promis'd Land.
But first the lawless Tyrant, who denies
To know thir God, or message to regard,
Must be compelld by Signes and Judgements dire;
To blood unshed the Rivers must be turnd,
Frogs, Lice and Flies must all his Palace fill
With loath'd intrusion, and fill all the land;
His Cattel must of Rot and Murren die,
Botches and blaines must all his flesh imboss,
And all his people; Thunder mixt with Haile,
Haile mixt with fire must rend th' Egyptian Skie
And wheel on th' Earth, devouring where it rouls;
What it devours not, Herb, or Fruit, or Graine,
A darksom Cloud of Locusts swarming down
Must eat, and on the ground leave nothing green:
Darkness must overshadow all his bounds,
Palpable darkness, and blot out three dayes;
Last with one midnight stroke all the first-born
Of Egypt must lie dead. Thus with ten wounds
This River-dragon tam'd at length submits
To let his sojourners depart, and oft
Humbles his stubborn heart, but still as Ice
More hard'nd after thaw, till in his rage
Pursuing whom he late dismissd, the Sea
Swallows him with his Host, but them lets pass
As on drie land between two christal walls,
Aw'd by the rod of Moses so to stand
Divided, till his rescu'd gain thir shoar:
Such wondrous power God to his Saint will lend,
Though present in his Angel, who shall goe
Before them in a Cloud, and Pillar of Fire,
By day a Cloud, by night a pillar of Fire,
To guide them in thir journey, and remove
Behinde them, while th' obdurat King pursues:
All night he will pursue, but his approach
Darkness defends between till morning Watch;
Then through the Firey Pillar and the Cloud
God looking forth will trouble all his Host
And craze thir Chariot wheels: when by command
Moses once more his potent Rod extends
Over the Sea; the Sea his Rod obeys;
On thir imbattelld ranks the Waves return,
And overwhelm thir Warr: the Race elect
Safe towards Canaan from the shoar advance
Through the wilde Desert, not the readiest way,
Least entring on the Canaanite allarmd
Warr terrifie them inexpert, and feare
Return them back to Egypt, choosing rather
Inglorious life with servitude; for life
To noble and ignoble is more sweet
Untraind in Armes, where rashness leads not on.
This also shall they gain by thir delay
In the wide Wilderness, there they shall found
Thir government, and thir great Senate choose
Through the twelve Tribes, to rule by Laws ordaind:
God from the Mount of Sinai, whose gray top
Shall tremble, he descending, will himself
In Thunder Lightning and loud Trumpets sound
Ordaine them Lawes; part such as appertaine
To civil Justice, part religious Rites
Of sacrifice, informing them, by types
And shadowes, of that destind Seed to bruise
The Serpent, by what meanes he shall achieve
Mankinds deliverance. But the voice of God
To mortal eare is dreadful; they beseech
That Moses might report to them his will,
And terror cease; he grants them thir desire,
Instructed that to God is no access
Without Mediator, whose high Office now
Moses in figure beares, to introduce
One greater, of whose day he shall foretell,
And all the Prophets in thir Age the times
Of great Messiah shall sing. Thus Laws and Rites
Establisht, such delight hath God in Men
Obedient to his will, that he voutsafes
Among them to set up his Tabernacle,
The holy One with mortal Men to dwell:
By his prescript a Sanctuary is fram'd
Of Cedar, overlaid with Gold, therein
An Ark, and in the Ark his Testimony,
The Records of his Cov'nant, over these
A Mercie-seat of Gold between the wings
Of two bright Cherubim, before him burn
Seaven Lamps as in a Zodiac representing
The Heav'nly fires; over the Tent a Cloud
Shall rest by Day, a fierie gleame by Night,
Save when they journie, and at length they come,
Conducted by his Angel to the Land
Promisd to Abraham and his Seed: the rest
Were long to tell, how many Battels fought,
How many Kings destroyd, and Kingdoms won,
Or how the Sun shall in mid Heav'n stand still
A day entire, and Nights due course adjourne,
Mans voice commanding, Sun in Gibeon stand,
And thou Moon in the vale of Aialon
Till Israel overcome; so call the third
From Abraham, Son of Isaac, and from him
His whole descent, who thus shall Canaan win.
Here Adam interpos'd. O sent from Heav'n,
Enlightner of my darkness, gracious things
Thou hast reveald, those chiefly which concerne
Just Abraham and his Seed: now first I finde
Mine eyes true op'ning, and my heart much eas'd,
Erwhile perplext with thoughts what would becom
Of mee and all Mankind; but now I see
His day, in whom all Nations shall be blest,
Favour unmerited by me, who sought
Forbidd'n knowledge by forbidd'n means.
This yet I apprehend not, why to those
Among whom God will deigne to dwell on Earth
So many and so various Laws are giv'n;
So many Laws argue so many sins
Among them; how can God with such reside?
To whom thus Michael. Doubt not but that sin
Will reign among them, as of thee begot;
And therefore was Law given them to evince
Thir natural pravitie, by stirring up
Sin against Law to fight; that when they see
Law can discover sin, but not remove,
Save by those shadowie expiations weak,
The bloud of Bulls and Goats, they may conclude
Some bloud more precious must be paid for Man,
Just for unjust, that in such righteousness
To them by Faith imputed, they may finde
Justification towards God, and peace
Of Conscience, which the Law by Ceremonies
Cannot appease, nor Man the moral part
Perform, and not performing cannot live.
So Law appears imperfet, and but giv'n
With purpose to resign them in full time
Up to a better Cov'nant, disciplin'd
From shadowie Types to Truth, from Flesh to Spirit,
From imposition of strict Laws, to free
Acceptance of large Grace, from servil fear
To filial, works of Law to works of Faith.
And therefore shall not Moses, though of God
Highly belov'd, being but the Minister
Of Law, his people into Canaan lead;
But Joshua whom the Gentiles Jesus call,
His Name and Office bearing, who shall quell
The adversarie Serpent, and bring back
Through the worlds wilderness long wanderd man
Safe to eternal Paradise of rest.
Meanwhile they in thir earthly Canaan plac't
Long time shall dwell and prosper, but when sins
National interrupt thir public peace,
Provoking God to raise them enemies:
From whom as oft he saves them penitent
By Judges first, then under Kings; of whom
The second, both for pietie renownd
And puissant deeds, a promise shall receive
Irrevocable, that his Regal Throne
For ever shall endure; the like shall sing
All Prophecie, [t]hat of the Royal Stock
Of David (so I name this King) shall rise
A Son, the Womans Seed to thee foretold,
Foretold to Abraham, as in whom shall trust
All Nations, and to Kings foretold, of Kings
The last, for of his Reign shall be no end.
But first a long succession must ensue,
And his next Son for Wealth and Wisdom fam'd,
The clouded Ark of God till then in Tents
Wandring, shall in a glorious Temple enshrine.
Such follow him, as shall be registerd
Part good, part bad, of bad the longer scrowle,
Whose foul Idolatries, and other faults
Heapt to the popular summe, will so incense
God, as to leave them, and expose thir Land,
Thir Citie, his Temple, and his holy Ark
With all his sacred things, a scorn and prey
To that proud Citie, whose high Walls thou saw'st
Left in confusion, Babylon thence call'd.
There in captivitie he lets them dwell
The space of seventie years, then brings them back,
Remembring mercie, and his Cov'nant sworn
To David, stablisht as the dayes of Heav'n.
Returnd from Babylon by leave of Kings
Thir Lords, whom God dispos'd, the house of God
They first re-edifie, and for a while
In mean estate live moderate, till grown
In wealth and multitude, factious they grow;
But first among the Priests dissension springs,
Men who attend the Altar, and should most
Endeavour Peace: thir strife pollution brings
Upon the Temple it self: at last they seise
The Scepter, and regard not Davids Sons,
Then loose it to a stranger, that the true
Anointed King Messiah might be born
Barr'd of his right; yet at his Birth a Starr
Unseen before in Heav'n proclaims him com,
And guides the Eastern Sages, who enquire
His place, to offer Incense, Myrrh, and Gold;
His place of birth a solemn Angel tells
To simple Shepherds, keeping watch by night;
They gladly thither haste, and by a Quire
Of squadrond Angels hear his Carol sung.
A Virgin is his Mother, but his Sire
The Power of the most High; he shall ascend
The Throne hereditarie, and bound his Reign
With earths wide bounds, his glory with the Heav'ns.
He ceas'd, discerning Adam with such joy
Surcharg'd, as had like grief bin dew'd in tears,
Without the vent of words, which these he breathd.
O Prophet of glad tidings, finisher
Of utmost hope! now clear I understand
What oft my steddiest thoughts have searcht in vain,
Why our great expectation should be call'd
The seed of Woman: Virgin Mother, Haile,
High in the love of Heav'n, yet from my Loynes
Thou shalt proceed, and from thy Womb the Son
Of God most High; So God with man unites.
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise
Expect with mortal paine: say where and when
Thir fight, what stroke shall bruise the Victors heel.
To whom thus Michael. Dream not of thir fight,
As of a Duel, or the local wounds
Of head or heel: not therefore joynes the Son
Manhood to God-head, with more strength to foil
Thy enemie; nor so is overcome
Satan, whose fall from Heav'n, a deadlier bruise,
Disabl'd not to give thee thy deaths wound:
Which hee, who comes thy Saviour, shall recure,
Not by destroying Satan, but his works
In thee and in thy Seed: nor can this be,
But by fulfilling that which thou didst want,
Obedience to the Law of God, impos'd
On penaltie of death, and suffering death,
The penaltie to thy transgression due,
And due to theirs which out of thine will grow:
So onely can high Justice rest appaid.
The Law of God exact he shall fulfill
Both by obedience and by love, though love
Alone fulfill the Law; thy punishment
He shall endure by coming in the Flesh
To a reproachful life and cursed death,
Proclaiming Life to all who shall believe
In his redemption, and that his obedience
Imputed becomes theirs by Faith, his merits
To save them, not thir own, though legal works.
For this he shall live hated, be blasphem'd,
Seis'd on by force, judg'd, and to death condemnd
A shameful and accurst, naild to the Cross
By his own Nation, slaine for bringing Life;
But to the Cross he nailes thy Enemies,
The Law that is against thee, and the sins
Of all mankinde, with him there crucifi'd,
Never to hurt them more who rightly trust
In this his satisfaction; so he dies,
But soon revives, Death over him no power
Shall long usurp; ere the third dawning light
Returne, the Starres of Morn shall see him rise
Out of his grave, fresh as the dawning light,
Thy ransom paid, which Man from death redeems,
His death for Man, as many as offerd Life
Neglect not, and the benefit imbrace
By Faith not void of works: this God-like act
Annuls thy doom, the death thou shouldst have dy'd,
In sin for ever lost from life; this act
Shall bruise the head of Satan, crush his strength
Defeating Sin and Death, his two maine armes,
And fix farr deeper in his head thir stings
Then temporal death shall bruise the Victors heel,
Or theirs whom he redeems, a death like sleep,
A gentle wafting to immortal Life.
Nor after resurrection shall he stay
Longer on Earth then certaine times to appeer
To his Disciples, Men who in his Life
Still follow'd him; to them shall leave in charge
To teach all nations what of him they learn'd
And his Salvation, them who shall beleeve
Baptizing in the profluent streame, the signe
Of washing them from guilt of sin to Life
Pure, and in mind prepar'd, if so befall,
For death, like that which the redeemer dy'd.
All Nations they shall teach; for from that day
Not onely to the Sons of Abrahams Loines
Salvation shall be Preacht, but to the Sons
Of Abrahams Faith wherever through the world;
So in his seed all Nations shall be blest.
Then to the Heav'n of Heav'ns he shall ascend
With victory, triumphing through the aire
Over his foes and thine; there shall surprise
The Serpent, Prince of aire, and drag in Chaines
Through all his realme, & there confounded leave;
Then enter into glory, and resume
His Seat at Gods right hand, exalted high
Above all names in Heav'n; and thence shall come,
When this worlds dissolution shall be ripe,
With glory and power to judge both quick & dead,
To judge th' unfaithful dead, but to reward
His faithful, and receave them into bliss,
Whether in Heav'n or Earth, for then the Earth
Shall all be Paradise, far happier place
Then this of Eden, and far happier daies.
So spake th' Archangel Michael, then paus'd,
As at the Worlds great period; and our Sire
Replete with joy and wonder thus repli'd.
O goodness infinite, goodness immense!
That all this good of evil shall produce,
And evil turn to good; more wonderful
Then that which by creation first brought forth
Light out of darkness! full of doubt I stand,
Whether I should repent me now of sin
By mee done and occasiond, or rejoyce
Much more, that much more good thereof shall spring,
To God more glory, more good will to Men
From God, and over wrauth grace shall abound.
But say, if our deliverer up to Heav'n
Must reascend, what will betide the few
His faithful, left among th' unfaithful herd,
The enemies of truth; who then shall guide
His people, who defend? will they not deale
Wors with his followers then with him they dealt?
Be sure they will, said th' Angel; but from Heav'n
Hee to his own a Comforter will send,
The promise of the Father, who shall dwell
His Spirit within them, and the Law of Faith
Working through love, upon thir hearts shall write,
To guide them in all truth, and also arme
With spiritual Armour, able to resist
Satans assaults, and quench his fierie darts
What Man can do against them, not affraid,
Though to the death, against such cruelties
With inward consolations recompenc't,
And oft supported so as shall amaze
Thir proudest persecuters: for the Spirit
Powrd first on his Apostles, whom he sends
To evangelize the Nations, then on all
Baptiz'd, shall them with wondrous gifts endue
To speak all Tongues, and do all Miracles,
As did thir Lord before them. Thus they win
Great numbers of each Nation to receave
With joy the tidings brought from Heav'n: at length
Thir Ministry perform'd, and race well run,
Thir doctrine and thir story written left,
They die; but in thir room, as they forewarne,
Wolves shall succeed for teachers, grievous Wolves,
Who all the sacred mysteries of Heav'n
To thir own vile advantages shall turne
Of lucre and ambition, and the truth
With superstitions and traditions taint,
Left onely in those written Records pure,
Though not but by the Spirit understood.
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names,
Places and titles, and with these to joine
Secular power, though feigning still to act
By spiritual, to themselves appropriating
The Spirit of God, promisd alike and giv'n
To all Beleevers; and from that pretense,
Spiritual Lawes by carnal power shall force
On every conscience; Laws which none shall finde
Left them inrould, or what the Spirit within
Shall on the heart engrave. What will they then
But force the Spirit of Grace it self, and binde
His consort Libertie; what, but unbuild
His living Temples, built by Faith to stand,
Thir own Faith not anothers: for on Earth
Who against Faith and Conscience can be heard
Infallible? yet many will presume:
Whence heavie persecution shall arise
On all who in the worship persevere
Of Spirit and Truth; the rest, farr greater part,
Will deem in outward Rites and specious formes
Religion satisfi'd; Truth shall retire
Bestuck with slandrous darts, and works of Faith
Rarely be found: so shall the World goe on,
To good malignant, to bad men benigne,
Under her own waight groaning, till the day
Appeer of respiration to the just,
And vengeance to the wicked, at return
Of him so lately promis'd to thy aid,
The Womans seed, obscurely then foretold,
Now amplier known thy Saviour and thy Lord,
Last in the Clouds from Heav'n to be reveald
In glory of the Father, to dissolve
Satan with his perverted World, then raise
From the conflagrant mass, purg'd and refin'd,
New Heav'ns, new Earth, Ages of endless date
Founded in righteousness and peace and love,
To bring forth fruits Joy and eternal Bliss.
He ended; and thus Adam last reply'd.
How soon hath thy prediction, Seer blest,
Measur'd this transient World, the Race of time,
Till time stand fixt: beyond is all abyss,
Eternitie, whose end no eye can reach.
Greatly instructed I shall hence depart,
Greatly in peace of thought, and have my fill
Of knowledge, what this vessel can containe;
Beyond which was my folly to aspire.
Henceforth I learne, that to obey is best,
And love with feare the onely God, to walk
As in his presence, ever to observe
His providence, and on him sole depend,
Merciful over all his works, with good
Still overcoming evil, and by small
Accomplishing great things, by things deemd weak
Subverting worldly strong, and worldly wise
By simply meek; that suffering for Truths sake
Is fortitude to highest victorie,
And to the faithful Death the Gate of Life;
Taught this by his example whom I now
Acknowledge my Redeemer ever blest.
To whom thus also th' Angel last repli'd:
This having learnt, thou hast attaind the summe
Of wisdom; hope no higher, though all the Starrs
Thou knewst by name, and all th' ethereal Powers,
All secrets of the deep, all Natures works,
Or works of God in Heav'n, Air, Earth, or Sea,
And all the riches of this World enjoydst,
And all the rule, one Empire; onely add
Deeds to thy knowledge answerable, add Faith,
Add Vertue, Patience, Temperance, add Love,
By name to come call'd Charitie, the soul
Of all the rest: then wilt thou not be loath
To leave this Paradise, but shalt possess
A Paradise within thee, happier farr.
Let us descend now therefore from this top
Of Speculation; for the hour precise
Exacts our parting hence; and see the Guards,
By mee encampt on yonder Hill, expect
Thir motion, at whose Front a flaming Sword,
In signal of remove, waves fiercely round;
We may no longer stay: go, waken Eve;
Her also I with gentle Dreams have calm'd
Portending good, and all her spirits compos'd
To meek submission: thou at season fit
Let her with thee partake what thou hast heard,
Chiefly what may concern her Faith to know,
The great deliverance by her Seed to come
(For by the Womans Seed) on all Mankind.
That ye may live, which will be many dayes,
Both in one Faith unanimous though sad,
With cause for evils past, yet much more cheer'd
With meditation on the happie end.
He ended, and they both descend the Hill;
Descended, Adam to the Bowre where Eve
Lay sleeping ran before, but found her wak't;
And thus with words not sad she him receav'd.
Whence thou returnst, & whither wentst, I know;
For God is also in sleep, and Dreams advise,
Which he hath sent propitious, some great good
Presaging, since with sorrow and hearts distress
VVearied I fell asleep: but now lead on;
In mee is no delay; with thee to goe,
Is to stay here; without thee here to stay,
Is to go hence unwilling; thou to mee
Art all things under Heav'n, all places thou,
VVho for my wilful crime art banisht hence.
This further consolation yet secure
I carry hence; though all by mee is lost,
Such favour I unworthie am voutsaft,
By mee the Promis'd Seed shall all restore.
So spake our Mother Eve, and Adam heard
VVell pleas'd, but answer'd not; for now too nigh
Th' Archangel stood, and from the other Hill
To thir fixt Station, all in bright array
The Cherubim descended; on the ground
Gliding meteorous, as Ev'ning Mist
Ris'n from a River o're the marish glides,
And gathers ground fast at the Labourers heel
Homeward returning. High in Front advanc't,
The brandisht Sword of God before them blaz'd
Fierce as a Comet; which with torrid heat,
And vapour as the Libyan Air adust,
Began to parch that temperate Clime; whereat
In either hand the hastning Angel caught
Our lingring Parents, and to th' Eastern Gate
Let them direct, and down the Cliff as fast
To the subjected Plaine; then disappeer'd.
They looking back, all th' Eastern side beheld
Of Paradise, so late thir happie seat,
Wav'd over by that flaming Brand, the Gate
With dreadful Faces throng'd and fierie Armes:
Som natural tears they drop'd, but wip'd them soon;
The World was all before them, where to choose
Thir place of rest, and Providence thir guide:
They hand in hand with wandring steps and slow,
Through Eden took thir solitarie way.
One day when you lose the one you love
The first thing you will do, is look into the sky above
Ask the lord why he had to take them away
But you will know, you will see them someday
You know that they've gone to a better place
It's way up high, even further than space
All you ask is that they're always happy
So when you meet up, it will all be lovely
When you've lost your loved one
It is hard to get over it
When you've lost your loved one
You will never get used to it
You will love them for eternity
The thing you want for them, is to live their life happily
Ask the lord to keep them by his side
And help them through, so that he is their guide
In the end it doesn't really matter
What's done is done as life begins to shatter
All we can do now is to remember them
And one day soon, we will be joined together again
When you've lost you loved one
It is hard to get over it
When you've lost your loved one
You will never get used to it
You were my friend then: now almost stranger!
Our friendship appeared once very glorious;
What happened meantime, gives me great anger;
Our friendship no longer remains serious.
Fool you were, to be misled by others,
Who drove a giant wedge ’midst our friendship;
Cut off is our friendship, which me bothers;
A nadir has come in our relationship.
What years of intimacy have been lost?
You’ve been foolish, very much on your part;
Our friendship today is just but a ghost;
Won’t your eyes see the true love in my heart?
Dear friend however, you can’t be my foe;
I hope that our friendship, blossoms once more!
901
Sweet, to have had them lost
For news that they be saved—
The nearer they departed Us
The nearer they, restored,
Shall stand to Our Right Hand—
Most precious and the Dead—
Next precious
Those that rose to go—
Then thought of Us, and stayed.
'Father, father, where are you going?
Oh do not walk so fast!
Speak, father, speak to you little boy,
Or else I shall be lost.'
The night was dark, no father was there,
The child was wet with dew;
The mire was deep, and the child did weep,
And away the vapour flew.
In futurity
I prophesy see.
That the earth from sleep.
(Grave the sentence deep)
Shall arise and seek
For her maker meek:
And the desart wild
Become a garden mild.
In the southern clime,
Where the summers prime
Never fades away;
Lovely Lyca lay.
Seven summers old
Lovely Lyca told,
She had wandered long.
Hearing wild birds song.
Sweet sleep come to me
Underneath this tree;
Do father, mother weep.--
"Where can Lyca sleep".
Lost in desert wild
Is your little child.
How can Lyca sleep.
If her mother weep.
If her heart does ake.
Then let Lyca wake;
If my mother sleep,
Lyca shall not weep.
Frowning, frowning night,
O'er this desert bright.
Let thy moon arise.
While I close my eyes.
Sleeping Lyca lay:
While the beasts of prey,
Come from caverns deep,
View'd the maid asleep
The kingly lion stood
And the virgin view'd:
Then he gambolled round
O'er the hallowed ground:
Leopards, tygers play,
Round her as she lay;
While the lion old,
Bow'd his mane of gold,
And her bosom lick,
And upon her neck,
From his eyes of flame,
Ruby tears there came;
While the lioness
Loos'd her slender dress,
And naked they convey'd
To caves the sleeping maid.
Matron! the children of whose love,
Each to his grave, in youth have passed,
And now the mould is heaped above
The dearest and the last!
Bride! who dost wear the widow's veil
Before the wedding flowers are pale!
Ye deem the human heart endures
No deeper, bitterer grief than yours.
Yet there are pangs of keener wo,
Of which the sufferers never speak,
Nor to the world's cold pity show
The tears that scald the cheek,
Wrung from their eyelids by the shame
And guilt of those they shrink to name,
Whom once they loved, with cheerful will,
And love, though fallen and branded, still.
Weep, ye who sorrow for the dead,
Thus breaking hearts their pain relieve;
And graceful are the tears ye shed,
And honoured ye who grieve.
The praise of those who sleep in earth,
The pleasant memory of their worth,
The hope to meet when life is past,
Shall heal the tortured mind at last.
But ye, who for the living lost
That agony in secret bear,
Who shall with soothing words accost
The strength of your despair?
Grief for your sake is scorn for them
Whom ye lament and all condemn;
And o'er the world of spirits lies
A gloom from which ye turn your eyes.
the time i dropped your almost body down
down to meet the waters under the city
and run one with the sewage to the sea
what did i know about waters rushing back
what did i know about drowning
or being drowned
you would have been born in winter
in the year of the disconnected gas
and no car
we would have made the thin walk
over the genecy hill into the canada winds
to let you slip into a stranger's hands
if you were here i could tell you
these and some other things
and if i am ever less than a mountain
for your definite brothers and sisters
let the rivers wash over my head
let the sea take me for a spiller of seas
let black men call me stranger always
for your never named sake
Year after year the artist wrought
With earnest, loving care,
The music flooding all his soul
To pour upon the air.
For this no metal was too rare,
He counted not the cost;
Nor deemed the years in which he toiled
As labor vainly lost.
When morning flushed with crimson light
The golden gates of day,
He longed to fill the air with chimes
Sweet as a matin's lay.
And when the sun was sinking low
Within the distant West,
He gladly heard the bells he wrought
Herald the hour of rest.
The music of a thousand harps
Could never be so dear
As when those solemn chants and thrills
Fell on his list'ning ear.
He poured his soul into their chimes,
And felt his toil repaid;
He called them children of his soul,
His home a'near them made.
But evil days came on apace,
War spread his banner wide,
And from his village snatched away
The artist's love and pride.
At dewy morn and stilly eve
The chimes no more he heard;
With dull and restless agony
His spirit's depths was stirred.
A weary longing filled his soul,
It bound him like a spell;
He left his home to seek the chimes --
The chimes he loved so well.
Where lofty fanes in grandeur rose,
Upon his ear there fell
No music like the long lost chimes
Of his beloved bell.
And thus he wandered year by year.
Touched by the hand of time,
Seeking to hear with anxious heart
Each well remembered chime.
And to that worn and weary heart
There came a glad surcease:
He heard again the dear old chimes,
And smiled and uttered peace.
"The chimes! the chimes!" the old man cried,
"I hear their tones at last;"
A sudden rapture filled his heart,
And all his cares were past.
Yes, peace had come with death's sweet calm,
His journeying was o'er,
The weary, restless wanderer
Had reached the restful shore.
It may be that he met again,
Enfolded in the air,
The dear old chimes beside the gates
Where all is bright and fair;
That he who crossed and bowed his head
When Angelus was sung
In clearer light touched golden harps
By angel fingers strung.
Spatial depths of being survive
The birth to death recurrences
Of feet dancing on earth of sand;
Vibrations of the dance survive
The sand; the sand, elect, survives
The dancer. He can find no source
Of magic adequate to bind
The sand upon his feet, his feet
Upon his dance, his dance upon
The diamond body of his being.
I had spent the night in the watch-house --
My head was the size of three --
So I went and asked the chemist
To fix up a drink for me;
And he brewed it from various bottles
With soda and plenty of ice,
With something that smelt like lemon,
And something that seemed like spice.
It fell on my parching palate
Like the dew on a sunbaked plain,
And my system began to flourish
Like the grass in the soft spring rain;
It wandered throughout my being,
Suffusing my soul with rest,
And I felt as I "scoffed" that liquid
That life had a new-found zest.
I have been on the razzle-dazzle
Full many a time since then
But I never could get the chemist
To brew me that drink again.
He says he's forgotten the notion --
'Twas only by chance it came --
He's tried me with various liquids
But oh! they are not the same.
We have sought, but we sought it vainly,
That one lost drink divine;
We have sampled his various bottles,
But somehow they don't combine:
Yet I know when I cross the River
And stand on the Golden Shore
I shall meet with an angel chemist
To brew me that drink once more.
The Cantadora came  as it was custom,
at night to tell about the flock abandoned.
It seems the sheep had left their shepherd,
not  through a sense of  loss or even want.
They had discarded him in view of sheer neglect,
he was not fit to lead, no flock be his again.
He played, the Cantadora did recap,
with rats and other vermin of great detriment.
It seems those creatures did provide sheer praise,
the painful lack of which the woolies could not feel.
So, for the pleasure of a short lived Mozart tune
embracing treason was the logic of the day.
Down by the creek they had assembled in the light
of a full moon  and to the murmur of the water.
Not being bright but rather fluffy and of beauty,
they were unanimous at once in condemnation.
'He who can not accept the logic of a passion
to fellow creatures does forfeit his right to life',
thus all the sheep did nod and burped a silent Baaah,
and with the signal that had been sent from above
one million glow worms led the dance of sudden freedom.
The people take the thing of course,
They marvel not to see
This strange, unnatural divorce
Betwixt delight and me.
I know the face of sorrow, and I know
Her voice with all its varied cadences;
Which way she turns and treads; how at her ease
Things fit her dreary largess to bestow.
Where sorrow long abides, some be that grow
To hold her dear, but I am not of these;
Joy is my friend, not sorrow; by strange seas,
In some far land we wandered, long ago.
O faith, long tried, that knows no faltering!
O vanished treasure of her hands and face!--
Beloved--to whose memory I cling,
Unmoved within my heart she holds her place.
And never shall I hail that other "friend,"
Who yet shall dog my footsteps to the end.
It is dusk on the Lost Lagoon,
And we two dreaming the dusk away,
Beneath the drift of a twilight grey,
Beneath the drowse of an ending day,
And the curve of a golden moon.
It is dark in the Lost Lagoon,
And gone are the depths of haunting blue,
The grouping gulls, and the old canoe,
The singing firs, and the dusk and--you,
And gone is the golden moon.
O! lure of the Lost Lagoon,--
I dream to-night that my paddle blurs
The purple shade where the seaweed stirs,
I hear the call of the singing firs
In the hush of the golden moon.
I.
Just for a handful of silver he left us,
Just for a riband to stick in his coat---
Found the one gift of which fortune bereft us,
Lost all the others she lets us devote;
They, with the gold to give, doled him out silver,
So much was theirs who so little allowed:
How all our copper had gone for his service!
Rags---were they purple, his heart had been proud!
We that had loved him so, followed him, honoured him,
Lived in his mild and magnificent eye,
Learned his great language, caught his clear accents,
Made him our pattern to live and to die!
Shakespeare was of us, Milton was for us,
Burns, Shelley, were with us,---they watch from their graves!
He alone breaks from the van and the free-men,
---He alone sinks to the rear and the slaves!
II.
We shall march prospering,---not thro' his presence;
Songs may inspirit us,---not from his lyre;
Deeds will be done,---while he boasts his quiescence,
Still bidding crouch whom the rest bade aspire:
Blot out his name, then, record one lost soul more,
One task more declined, one more foot-path untrod,
One more devils'-triumph and sorrow for angels,
One wrong more to man, one more insult to God!
Life's night begins: let him never come back to us!
There would be doubt, hesitation and pain,
Forced praise on our part---the glimmer of twilight,
Never glad confident morning again!
Best fight on well, for we taught him---strike gallantly,
Menace our heart ere we master his own;
Then let him receive the new knowledge and wait us,
Pardoned in heaven, the first by the throne!
There's a Legion that never was 'listed,
That carries no colours or crest,
But, split in a thousand detachments,
Is breaking the road for the rest.
Our fathers they left us their blessing --
They taught us, and groomed us, and crammed;
But we've shaken the Clubs and the Messes
To go and find out and be damned
(Dear boys!),
To go and get shot and be damned.
So some of us chivy the slaver,
And some of us cherish the black,
And some of us hunt on the Oil Coast,
And some on -- the Wallaby track:
And some of us drift to Sarawak,
And some of us drift up The Fly,
And some share our tucker with tigers,
And some with the gentle Masai
(Dear boys!),
Take tea with the giddy Masai.
We've painted The Islands vermilion,
We've pearled on half-shares in the Bay,
We've shouted on seven-ounce nuggets,
We've starved on a Seedeeboy's pay;
We've laughed at the world as we found it --
Its women and cities and men --
From Sayyid Burgash in a tantrum
To the smoke-reddened eyes of Loben
(Dear boys!),
We've a little account with Loben.
The ends o' the Earth were our portion,
The ocean at large was our share.
There was never a skirmish to windward
But the Leaderless Legion was there:
Yes, somehow and somewhere and always
We were first when the trouble began,
From a lottery-row in Manila,
To an I.D.B. race on the Pan
(Dear boys!),
With the Mounted Police on the Pan.
We preach in advance of the Army,
We skirmish ahead of the Church,
With never a gunboat to help us
When we're scuppered and left in the lurch.
But we know as the cartridges finish,
And we're filed on our last little shelves,
That the Legion that never was 'listed
Will send us as good as ourselves
(Good men!),
Five hundred as good as ourselves.
Then a health (we must drink it in whispers)
To our wholly unauthorised horde --
To the line of our dusty foreloopers,
The Gentlemen Rovers abroad --
Yes, a health to ourselves ere we scatter,
For the steamer won't wait for the train,
And the Legion that never was 'listed
Goes back into quarters again!
'Regards!
Goes back under canvas again.
Hurrah!
The swag and the billy again.
Here's how!
The trail and the packhorse again.
Salue!
The trek and the laager again.
Another search for Leichhardt's tomb,
Though fifty years have fled
Since Leichhardt vanished in the gloom,
Our one Illustrious Dead!
But daring men from Britain's shore,
The fearless bulldog breed,
Renew the fearful task once more,
Determined to succeed.
Rash men, that know not what they seek,
Will find their courage tried.
For things have changed on Cooper's Creek
Since Ludwig Leichhardt died.
Along where Leichhardt journeyed slow
And toiled and starved in vain;
These rash excursionists must go
Per Queensland railway train.
Out on those deserts lone and drear
The fierce Australian black
Will say -- "You show it pint o' beer,
It show you Leichhardt track!"
And loud from every squatter's door
Each pioneering swell
Will hear the wild pianos roar
The strains of "Daisy Bell".
The watchers in those forests vast
Will see, at fall of night,
Commercial travellers bounding past
And darting out of sight.
About their path a fearful fate
Will hover always near.
A dreadful scourge that lies in wait --
The Longreach Horehound Beer!
And then, to crown this tale of guilt,
They'll find some scurvy knave,
Regardless of their quest, has built
A pub on Leichhardt's grave!
Ah, yes! Those British pioneers
Had best at home abide,
For things have changed in fifty years
Since Ludwig Leichhardt died.
I.
All's over, then: does truth sound bitter
As one at first believes?
Hark, 'tis the sparrows' good-night twitter
About your cottage eaves!
II.
And the leaf-buds on the vine are woolly,
I noticed that, to-day;
One day more bursts them open fully
---You know the red turns grey.
III.
To-morrow we meet the same then, dearest?
May I take your hand in mine?
Mere friends are we,---well, friends the merest
Keep much that I resign:
IV.
For each glance of the eye so bright and black,
Though I keep with heart's endeavour,---
Your voice, when you wish the snowdrops back,
Though it stay in my soul for ever!---
V.
Yet I will but say what mere friends say,
Or only a thought stronger;
I will hold your hand but as long as all may,
Or so very little longer!
Aweigh now your anchors
Set trim to your sails,
For the voyage of your mind
Will spin wondrous tales.
It's a journey of hope,
A destination of dreams,
And the sea that we cross
Is not what it seems.
As a child I would travel
Questioning all I would see,
Sailing on my imagination,
To any port I would please.
Then life answered questions,
Whether I wished it or not,
And my ship ceased to sail,
To the places I sought.
Now burdened with wisdom,
Of the way things should be,
I must find my way back,
My imagination to free.
Though my years may find favor,
By some means that I use,
I’ll sail back to my youth,
To find my lost muse.
2/22/06
Somewhere is music from the linnets' bills,
And thro' the sunny flowers the bee-wings drone,
And white bells of convolvulus on hills
Of quiet May make silent ringing, blown
Hither and thither by the wind of showers,
And somewhere all the wandering birds have flown;
And the brown breath of Autumn chills the flowers.
But where are all the loves of long ago?
O little twilight ship blown up the tide,
Where are the faces laughing in the glow
Of morning years, the lost ones scattered wide
Give me your hand, O brother, let us go
Crying about the dark for those who died.
for my father, 1922-1944
Your face did not rot
like the others--the co-pilot,
for example, I saw him
yesterday. His face is corn-
mush: his wife and daughter,
the poor ignorant people, stare
as if he will compose soon.
He was more wronged than Job.
But your face did not rot
like the others--it grew dark,
and hard like ebony;
the features progressed in their
distinction. If I could cajole
you to come back for an evening,
down from your compulsive
orbiting, I would touch you,
read your face as Dallas,
your hoodlum gunner, now,
with the blistered eyes, reads
his braille editions. I would
touch your face as a disinterested
scholar touches an original page.
However frightening, I would
discover you, and I would not
turn you in; I would not make
you face your wife, or Dallas,
or the co-pilot, Jim. You
could return to your crazy
orbiting, and I would not try
to fully understand what
it means to you. All I know
is this: when I see you,
as I have seen you at least
once every year of my life,
spin across the wilds of the sky
like a tiny, African god,
I feel dead. I feel as if I were
the residue of a stranger's life,
that I should pursue you.
My head cocked toward the sky,
I cannot get off the ground,
and, you, passing over again,
fast, perfect, and unwilling
to tell me that you are doing
well, or that it was mistake
that placed you in that world,
and me in this; or that misfortune
placed these worlds in us.
Some say the spot is banned; that the pillar Cross-and-Hand
Attests to a deed of hell;
But of else than of bale is the mystic tale
That ancient Vale-folk tell.
Ere Cernel's Abbey ceased hereabout there dwelt a priest,
(In later life sub-prior
Of the brotherhood there, whose bones are now bare
In the field that was Cernel choir).
One night in his cell at the foot of yon dell
The priest heard a frequent cry:
"Go, father, in haste to the cot on the waste,
And shrive a man waiting to die."
Said the priest in a shout to the caller without,
"The night howls, the tree-trunks bow;
One may barely by day track so rugged a way,
And can I then do so now?"
No further word from the dark was heard,
And the priest moved never a limb;
And he slept and dreamed; till a Visage seemed
To frown from Heaven at him.
In a sweat he arose; and the storm shrieked shrill,
And smote as in savage joy;
While High-Stoy trees twanged to Bubb-Down Hill,
And Bubb-Down to High-Stoy.
There seemed not a holy thing in hail,
Nor shape of light or love,
From the Abbey north of Blackmore Vale
To the Abbey south thereof.
Yet he plodded thence through the dark immense,
And with many a stumbling stride
Through copse and briar climbed nigh and nigher
To the cot and the sick man's side.
When he would have unslung the Vessels uphung
To his arm in the steep ascent,
He made loud moan: the Pyx was gone
Of the Blessed Sacrament.
Then in dolorous dread he beat his head:
"No earthly prize or pelf
Is the thing I've lost in tempest tossed,
But the Body of Christ Himself!"
He thought of the Visage his dream revealed,
And turned towards whence he came,
Hands groping the ground along foot-track and field,
And head in a heat of shame.
Till here on the hill, betwixt vill and vill,
He noted a clear straight ray
Stretching down from the sky to a spot hard by,
Which shone with the light of day.
And gathered around the illumined ground
Were common beasts and rare,
All kneeling at gaze, and in pause profound
Attent on an object there.
'Twas the Pyx, unharmed 'mid the circling rows
Of Blackmore's hairy throng,
Whereof were oxen, sheep, and does,
And hares from the brakes among;
And badgers grey, and conies keen,
And squirrels of the tree,
And many a member seldom seen
Of Nature's family.
The ireful winds that scoured and swept
Through coppice, clump, and dell,
Within that holy circle slept
Calm as in hermit's cell.
Then the priest bent likewise to the sod
And thanked the Lord of Love,
And Blessed Mary, Mother of God,
And all the saints above.
And turning straight with his priceless freight,
He reached the dying one,
Whose passing sprite had been stayed for the rite
Without which bliss hath none.
And when by grace the priest won place,
And served the Abbey well,
He reared this stone to mark where shone
That midnight miracle.
i need to know their names
those women i would have walked with
jauntily the way men go in groups
swinging their arms, and the ones
those sweating women whom i would have joined
after a hard game to chew the fat
what would we have called each other laughing
joking into our beer? where are my gangs,
my teams, my mislaid sisters?
all the women who could have known me,
where in the world are their names?
The time I've lost in wooing,
In watching and pursuing
The light that lies
In woman's eyes,
Has been my heart's undoing.
Tho' Wisdom oft has sought me,
I scorn'd the lore she brought me,
My only books
Were women's looks,
And folly's all they taught me.
Her smile when Beauty granted,
I hung with gaze enchanted,
Like him the Sprite
Whom maids by night
Oft meet in glen that's haunted.
Like him, too, Beauty won me;
But when the spell was on me,
If once their ray
Was turn'd away,
O! winds could not outrun me.
And are those follies going?
And is my proud heart growing
Too cold or wise
For brillant eyes
Again to set it glowing?
No -- vain, alas! th' endeavour
From bonds so sweet to sever: --
Poor Wisdom's chance
Against a glance
Is now as weak as ever.
1       Since I noo mwore do zee your fe{'a}ce,
Up ste{'a}rs or down below,
I'll zit me in the lwonesome ple{'a}ce,
Where flat-bough'd beech do grow;
Below the beeches' bough, my love,
Where you did never come,
An' I don't look to meet ye now,
As I do look at hwome.
Since you noo mwore be at my zide,
In walks in zummer het,
I'll goo alwone where mist do ride,
Drough trees a-drippèn wet;
Below the ra{'i}n-wet bough, my love,
Where you did never come,
An' I don't grieve to miss ye now,
As I do grieve at hwome.
Since now bezide my dinner-bwoard
Your va{'i}ce do never sound,
I'll eat the bit I can avword,
A-vield upon the ground;
Below the darksome bough, my love,
Where you did never dine,
An' I don't grieve to miss ye now,
As I at hwome do pine.
Since I do miss your va{'i}ce an' fe{'a}ce
In pra{'y}er at eventide,
I'll pray wi' woone sad va{'i}ce vor gre{'a}ce
To goo where you do bide;
Above the tree an' bough, my love,
Where you be gone avore,
An' be a-w{'a}itèn vor me now,
To come vor evermwore.
I SING what was lost and dread what was won,
I walk in a battle fought over again,
My king a lost king, and lost soldiers my men;
Feet to the Rising and Setting may run,
They always beat on the same small stone.
104
Where I have lost, I softer tread—
I sow sweet flower from garden bed—
I pause above that vanished head
And mourn.
Whom I have lost, I pious guard
From accent harsh, or ruthless word—
Feeling as if their pillow heard,
Though stone!
When I have lost, you'll know by this—
A Bonnet black—A dusk surplice—
A little tremor in my voice
Like this!
Why, I have lost, the people know
Who dressed in flocks of purest snow
Went home a century ago
Next Bliss!
73
Who never lost, are unprepared
A Coronet to find!
Who never thirsted
Flagons, and Cooling Tamarind!
Who never climbed the weary league—
Can such a foot explore
The purple territories
On Pizarro's shore?
How many Legions overcome—
The Emperor will say?
How many Colors taken
On Revolution Day?
How many Bullets bearest?
Hast Thou the Royal scar?
Angels! Write "Promoted"
On this Soldier's brow!
Since I noo mwore do zee your fe{"a}ce,
Up ste{"a}rs or down below,
I'll zit me in the lwonesome ple{"a}ce,
Where flat-bough'd beech do grow;
Below the beeches' bough, my love,
Where you did never come,
An' I don't look to meet ye now,
As I do look at hwome.
Since you noo mwore be at my zide,
In walks in zummer het,
I'll goo alwone where mist do ride,
Drough trees a-drippèn wet;
Below the ra{"i}n-wet bough, my love,
Where you did never come,
An' I don't grieve to miss ye now,
As I do grieve at hwome.
Since now bezide my dinner-bwoard
Your va{"i}ce do never sound,
I'll eat the bit I can avword,
A-vield upon the ground;
Below the darksome bough, my love,
Where you did never dine,
An' I don't grieve to miss ye now,
As I at hwome do pine.
Since I do miss your va{"i}ce an' fe{"a}ce
In pra{"y}er at eventide,
I'll pray wi' woone sad va{"i}ce vor gre{"a}ce
To goo where you do bide;
Above the tree an' bough, my love,
Where you be gone avore,
An' be a-w{"a}itèn vor me now,
To come vor evermwore.
Law of love?  Sounds good… so, tell me more…
Love of law?  mmm…maybe…not so sure…
You can disregard the ancients –
label them  Not Applicable – bin that bulky file…
or try to make some sense; and they insist
that love and law are so close intertwined
that together, they may tell
more than each other taken individually.
What might this mean? Where can we start?
Those ancients say that all this universe,
all this creation, is one single act of love;
love brings it forth, sustains it, nourishes it,
and so ultimately, it merges into love;
and by the laws of love,
which hold all forms by law,
our natural state is naught but love;
and knowing this, knows no injustice in ourself;
knows all as equal; knows no pressures nor compulsions;
knows no darkness; and no partiality or preferentiality;
and partaking of this universal love,
we’re therefore just, and light of heart,
and ready of response..
and so, this love, which knows ourself as love,
(for every creature's nature is pure love)
may love the laws which make our nature thus;
love the laws of love, and live as love;
so out of love, comes law;
and out of law, comes love.
only in this fleeting moment of the present
is our life lived;
and only if, in this continuous now,
love and law are present in each action,
may we make our golden future;
live a golden life, where law has made us free.
this, the ancients say; the proof is ours to live.
i wish to be the air you breathe
love that floods your every cell
revitalising you, cheering you up
every second of your life
i love like the rush of the Nile, Yangtze -
listen, listen to this lovelorn heart,
holding on, letting go, holding on
with such tenacity to the hope
of every lovelorn night
an eclipse helps distill
my love for you,
seals your charms, allure
from the craving prying eyes
of the world, precipitates that
momentuous silhouette,
escapade for me and you
sun and moon, yin and yang
to be totally absorbed
in bliss, in each other
love, love, love
if only i could be the only star
to win your fancy
for that sparkling while
heaven the world would become
love, oh what is love?
flowers in so many shapes and hues
giving sweetness  to butterflies and bees
in so many shapes and hues
in the field, a buzz, a joy, these insects
help create another world
another paradise, warm colourful  flower garden
for lovers of the world
help spread cheers everywhere
with the sweetness  the flowers
where the flowers are, the butterflies, the bees are
where there is love, joy spreads
wide as the field
just look at the butterflies and the bees
how they cheer up  the field with their  songs and dance
Before you arrived
Love was just a four letter word
You gave definition
My heart is a wanderer in love
May it ever remain so
Roaming in the pathless land
In a caravan
Just going where the winds blow...
Sometimes rendered miserable
Blown in all directions
In search of my eternal love fable
Inspite of all defections
Always singing the song of love....
Longing for the moon
Searching in the dunes
Will only be still when it becomes crystal
That there is no breath left
For me to fulfill.....
Beware, my Love
Of the thunder
That we will encounter
When we touch
Beware, my love
Of the Rain
The outpourings of the pain
For the lost time
Beware, my love
Of the lightning
The resurrection that it will bring
Of our dormant desires
Beware, my Love
Of the flood
The mingling of our blood
When our skins dissolve
Beware, my Love
Of the reverbration
The resounding celebration
Of Our eternal Embrace
Well, honey it is January
And soon it will be February
I know what it reminds me
To remember you in Valentine's Day
And I know what is that day for
And I know what it is for
The love of love for all love
The love of love for sweetheart of
But we been sweetheart since then
My love for you ain't been forgotten
Though we have this strands of silver hair
Valentine's Day is nothing for me as I always care
And my love is always fresh like the morning
With our love still blending and refreshing
And refreshes my mind everyday
Not only on Valentine's Day
(love is like)
Love is like a painting
filled with all colours and shades
love is like a bleeding heart
cut with many sharp blades
love is like a never ending story
that always begins with a kiss
love is like a space everlasting
that fills bitterness with bliss
love is like the circle of eternity
always there to take for free
(love is)
Love is an open clear pool
where no hate can dare swim
love is a captured sunset
where the warmth never grows dim
love is desire held in the eye
that spreads quickly to the heart
love is a black starry night sky
a metaphor of glorious art
love is a deep dark hole of mystery
always there to take free
so there you are in
your pram or kiddikarria
nicely tucked up,
being talked to in that
singysongylingo
that grown-ups grow down to
when that tingylingy, like
that stoopid thingy
dangling on your cot that
doesn't do anything else
goes hissdidahdidah
and she switches her attention instantly
from who's mommy's little treasure then,
sticks this silver thing to block her ear
and starts talking to thin air
it must be either the fairies
who don't seem to be very helpful -
'oh darling don't say you forgot I
asked you specially...'
or she's going doolally and
the adult world's not
what it's cracked up to be
I'll give her two minutes no more
or else
I remember that day when we came to know each other
We had a good chat and shared with all our views
That day and night, I could not sleep and kept on watching
all those stars in the sky and thinking of you
The moments we shared were so special and unforgettable
You were so shy and young to say or do anything about it
I felt that I was in love with you
I want to tell you that how much I love you
I want to tell you what I feel for you
I want to tell you that when I think of you my heart twist inside
But at that time I thought it was to soon to tell you
Since I was working in another city, I could not meet you
My days have past with your loving thoughts
I was counting my days to get back to you
and tell you what was stored in my mind for only you
I felt my warm of love with you would melt the winter snows
Suddenly I received a message from your friend
that you had an accident and died in the hospital
I was so shocked and a tear runs down my cheek
My dream with you was shattered and everything
I believed is not here, you have gone to heaven
I know deep in my soul that I will not see you until it's my time
Before I start my love with you, I have lost my love
Now I sit all alone in my room as memories unfold
May be you might hear my cry and beating of my heart in pain forever
I miss you my love where ever you are always
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2008 Ravi Sathasivam
Birds sing "I love you, love" the whole day through,
And not another song can they sing right;
But, singing done with, loving's done with quite,
The autumn sunders every twittering two.
And I'd not have love make too much ado
With sweet parades of fondness and delight,
Lest iterant wont should make caresses trite,
Love-names mere cuckoo ousters of the true.
Oh heart can hear heart's sense in senseless nought,
And heart that's sure of heart has little speech.
What shall it tell? The other knows its thought.
What shall one doubt or question or beseech
Who is assured and knows and, unbesought,
Possesses the dear trust that each gives each.
LOVE for love, and moments sweet,
Lips returning kiss for kiss,
Word for word, and eyes that meet;
Breath for breath, and bliss for bliss.
Thus at eve, and thus the morrow!
Yet thou feeblest, at my lay,
Ever some half-hidden sorrow;
Could I Joseph's graces borrow,
All thy beauty I'd repay!
C for you to see
P for you to Pray
G for you to Guide
K for you to KALL
A for you to Arch
L for you to Love
Love for us to Call
Kall Love, LOVE CALL,
Love ALL..
Your not here with me my love,
so I hold my pillow to my chest
and make believe its you.
I kiss it twice, just the way
we used to do.
Your not here with me my love,
but I hold my pillow very
tight, pretending that its you.
I kiss it twice just the way
we used to do.
Your not here with me my love,
but somehow I felt
you knew... exactly what I'd do.
I'd kiss it twice just the way
we used to do.
Because our love is eternal
there's nothing left to say,
except to say this one last word.
I love you more each day.
Falling in love with love,
There's nothing like this,
Become like someone you love,
Is what I hope for and miss.
My love is lonely tonight,
When the stars shine on so bright,
What is for me now right,
Is perhaps all out of sight?
Falling for someone like you,
Is it just impossible?
Why is my heart so blue?
Am I just another fool?
The night is ascending,
Dark hours coming in soon,
My wishes comprehending
In shadows from the moon.
Falling in love with love,
There's nothing like this,
Become like the one you love,
Is it impossible to wish?
Now in this gleaming light,
Perhaps I've lost my flight,
But I shall hold on so tight,
Never give up on that fight.
My love is like an ocean
It goes down so deep
My love is like a rose
Whose beauty you want to keep.
My love is like a river
That will never end
My love is like a dove
With a beautiful message to send.
My love is like a song
That goes on and on forever
My love is like a prisoner
It’s to you that I surrender.
keeper of my heart
love me as long as i live
show me the bright light
Hard is the love couples share as they try to reveal the love they share-
The words aren't there, hard to find, hard to seek. Love is hard and also blind when you try to hide,  and when you know its there.
Love is hard the up and downs, highs and lows, tares and snares
Hard to show and let them know the ones who know nothing about you
or the ones you can't stand are the ones who you should love
If you had show some form of love that one person you needed, was not
there now you are should've, could've, would've
because there was no love in your heart, hard love is the main thing of -
this world we live in
Love is hard in the place we call earth, Love isn't found not from
our indiviual peers, but from the citizens of America
Harder is love, hate comes easy
Is love hard because we don't know how or is love harder because
we don't care?
Love is blind- which is hard, hard to give, or hard to recieve
Which is harder Love or Hate?
I say love because we know its there but we simply ignore the presence of love, and hide in the darkness of the shadows of the issues of the world, only to hope on the light of LoVe.
I do not love you except because I love you;
I go from loving to not loving you,
From waiting to not waiting for you
My heart moves from cold to fire.
I love you only because it's you the one I love;
I hate you deeply, and hating you
Bend to you, and the measure of my changing love for you
Is that I do not see you but love you blindly.
Maybe January light will consume
My heart with its cruel
Ray, stealing my key to true calm.
In this part of the story I am the one who
Dies, the only one, and I will die of love because I love you,
Because I love you, Love, in fire and blood.
If love were like water
I'd build you a fountain,
And if love were like stone
I'd bring you a mountain.
If love were like air
I'd set whirlwinds free,
But as these are not love
I'll just give you me.
(1995)
I Love You
I Love Love You
no other words could say it more
your handsome and clever
without you I'd be sore
I Love You
I Love Love You
nothing else can say
your charming and loving
your the sunshine on my rainy day.
I Love You
I Love Love You
you mean so much to me
your bright blue eyes and smiling face
I hope my love you see
I Love You
I Love Love You
there are no other words that describe
when you put your arms around me
I always want you by my side
I Love Love you
My hands
cradling your head
against my chest
my hands
caressing your breast
all awe & tenderness
my hands
encircling your naked waist
your belly
button
convulsed with laughter
& desire
my hands
resting on your hips
you stepping out of
your unzipped skirt
a petticoat
like a wave
frothing at your feet
my hands
stroking your thighs gently
opening to
receive me
your discarded panties
landing on the kitten
trembling
underneath them
my hands
(you telling me)
“I love the way
your hands
...love me! ”
I read her to see her
And see her to perceive her.
Perceive that her mind touch
I love more, she thinks of  ‘much’.
O prisoner of time
Love has a rhythm love has a rhyme!
I love to love her not to love
In the space there no down no above!
See the cutaneous sensation, see see
Oh sweet the lil boy propel pee-pee!
I love to love her not to love
In the space there no down no above!
Who is she?
She is she plus he!
Pouring sun moon star flower in her words she comes to me to say- I want stay naked alike not a jaybird so that all onlooker can say I am not unclothed. And I know, enclothing because of unclothing!
I love to love her not to love
In the space there no down no above!
Cryptic affinity it is that we in love not to love!
**((‘She is she plus he’! -All of he and she has their own sweet recourse in their subconscious which is instinctive that seems linked up he and she and vice versa. Isn’t it?))
-August-2009-
I love you because I love you...
and because I love you, I hate you!
and from hating you,
I love you more than  my own life
I love you because I love you,
and because I love you, I hate you.!
I hate you when you are morning sadness
but I love you when you are night happiness
I love you because I love you,
and because I love you, I hate you!
I hate you when you want to be what you are not
in the cold dawns,
but I love you like you are
in the hot nights of the cheerful summer.
I love you because I love you,
and because I hate you, I love you.! !
I love you because you have
the mischievous boy's infinite happiness
lost in the rain of the afternoon,
but I hate you when the gloom floods you.
I hate you because I love you,
and because I love you, I hate you !
I love you because you have the sensibility
and the fondness contained in a loving tear,
but I hate you when you are a lot of hidden memories.
I love you because I love you,
and because I love you, I hate you !
I love you because you are divine engineering,
but I hate you because I don't deserve you at the nightfall.
I love you because I love you,
and because I hate you, I love you! !
I love you because you are my life,
but I hate you because you are my death
and in the face of this great dilemma
I will die hating you...
to resuscitate loving you! !
Take a look at my poem, Spontaneous Generation
Of all of God's creation
I love you foremost
Tower of inspiration
And kindness utmost
Providing motivation
Giving me support
Helping ease frustration
With friendly comfort
I'm frozen by your beauty
Melted with your touch
In your arms I long to be
I love you so much
Even after many a year
The love of my life
You're the one I hold most dear
Blest you are my wife
Written for and dedicated to my beautiful wife, who I now understand why, I wish both you and I would have known, but it was all for the best, it was all part of His plan. I'm sorry, forgive me.
© 2011
Here sits a boy so in love with this girl,
But he won't say a word cause it sets him in a whirl.
And it won't stop spinning untill he can find
some rest, reassurance or peace of mind,
That this girl that he loves so very much wil be in his arms
to hold and touch.
All that he wants is for this girl to caress
But he can't possibly cause his heads such a mess.
And he desperatley longs and hopes for the day that he can openly but honestly say,
'i love you more than anythingelse, even more than life itself'.
It's been hours now just laying in bed
Almost time to get up for work but only your in my head
I'm laughing at myself for wishing for the same fantasy
Of you finally choosing you really want to be with me
Every second I relive the moments I had with you
Enjoying every second I heard I love you too
It's been forever since a smile has ever lasted on my face
Because no other has ever come close to every taken your place
At times it seems pointless like we were never meant to be
But then there are times I should just wait and see
I still wait and hang on to a slim glimpse of hope
Because losing you was something I just couldn't cope
Years have past with it seasons came and went
With thoughts of you my sleepless nights i spent
Even to this day I still remember our first kiss
It's still you I love it's your love I will always miss
Your beauty overwhelms me
As I wrap my arms around you
I press your softness tight
Great passion fills my inner being
I'm captured in your embrace
Your eyes control my very soul
The touch of your lips, heaven
Forever frozen in time
All else fades into nothing
© 2012
< br>
love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love
Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Love You Wife
love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love
The seed of love is lying in my heart
the clouds are becoming heavy
the air has become cool and breezy
mountains stands tall and steady
and my hopes are floating on waves
the leaves are rustling so my wishes
and all are desperate to see the dream come true
and this spring is on door steps
the first droplet dances past the eagle
peacock opened its wings
the breeze carries the fragrance
and in seconds the spring zooms
life is life, however it would go
love is love, no matter what would occur
love is growing more with every hearts beat
feelings of my heart could never change
love is life, life is love
you can enjoy them as much as you want....
Love you in the morning!
Love you in the evening,
Love you in the noonday,
Love you all the way!
Live for love, love for live, love! Love! Love!
Winter and summer come and just go!
But true lovers come and gather, never forgo,
Love tugs the heart string!
Love ignites the soul to sing,
Live for love, love for live, love! Love! Love!
I will give you the wind of my sky today,
I will give you the waves in my ocean someday,
I will give you the beat in my heart one-day!
I will give you the wreath of flowers everyday;
Live for love, love for live, love! Love! Love!
Love gives you  inspiration,
Yet love takes your ambition!
Love gives you admiration,
Yet love takes your animation!
Live for love, love for live, love! Love! Love!
Love bestows you with promised lands Sojourn,
Yet love breaks your invigoration!
Love bestows you with fairylands forlorn,
yet love shocks your vilification!
Live for love, love for live, love! Love! Love!
Through all the injustice making life not fair,
the world is choking, gasping for air.
Even though people differ in color, beliefs, and tongues,
we all have love in our hearts and air in our lungs.
When all we do is discriminate,
all that shows is the evils of mans hate.
To reverse this world-wide tragedy,
people have to stop and realize that their acting like gravity.
Breaking people down like a dictator of hate,
the world works for the rich with no debate.
behind every cheap dollar top,
there is a child wasting away in a third-world shop.
Engraved in the treads are the blood and tears,
of the little children expressing their fears.
Although we think that this could not be true,
the world works so shady, not caring what other people must go through.
Void, empty, hollow inside
My dreams have fled, my hopes have died
Existence has no reason
Life's just passing with each season
She was my life, my hope, my love
All is gone, passed by thereof
The hurt is such no one should bear
What's to life, why should I care?
I weep all night for my love gone
My heart is sick, for death I long
Mine eyes well tears for love that's lost
I'll mourn always for the great cost
But in each day Lord give me hope
Strengthen me so I may cope
Grant me wisdom to help me see
Thy great way and not just me.
love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love
Valentine - A mark of love's effervescence,
Verily! Love's romantic exuberances,
Villa of charming red roses,
Vivacious love's beautiful expressions!
Vineyard of sweet whisperings,
Vivid display of love's embraces,
Velvet, silk, touches and kisses,
‘Vitamin L' that sustains and nourishes!
Voyage of memories and praises
Vows to remain steadfast and uphold promises,
Valuable diamonds that dazzle and sparkle,
Variegated colours and exotic perfumes!
Verdict of impeccable valentine's celebrations,
Veritable fare of love's infallible declarations!
A Sonnet
In Love!
But……………………..
Not with love that dazzles and disappears,
Not with love that rejects and recedes,
Not with love that deliberates and deceives,
Not with love that demands and dominates!
I am not in love with any of these,
I am in love with ‘Love' itself!
Love that is unquestionable,
Love that is unpretentious,
Love that is unpremeditated,
Love that is unparalleled!
Yes! In love with love-
Love that is pure bliss!
The time will come
when, with elation
you will greet yourself arriving
at your own door, in your own mirror
and each will smile at the other's welcome,
and say, sit here. Eat.
You will love again the stranger who was your self.
Give wine. Give bread. Give back your heart
to itself, to the stranger who has loved you
all your life, whom you ignored
for another, who knows you by heart.
Take down the love letters from the bookshelf,
the photographs, the desperate notes,
peel your own image from the mirror.
Sit. Feast on your life.
Loss can be good for us,
researchers say (Nolen-Hoeksema
and Davis,2002)   – it’s called
Post-Traumatic Growth…
When we ‘lose’ someone
we seldom see these days,
yet always love, we are in some strangely beautiful way
the gainers –
lose someone who, caught a glimpse of
down a school corridor, is like
a mirror in which you’ll see reflected
yourself as nothing but pure love…
and when you meet her then, it’s just as if
you meet love – and a modesty almost uncertain:
as if she had been  bestowed the awesome gift
of a part of sun and sunlight, and told,
bestow this wisely…
warmth, and light, and beautiful humility –
even your great talent – I recall
a rare and radiant press review
of a concert in the Purcell Room
where you improvised on, was it, Ravel..?
and when asked why you never built
upon that boost, you said with typical
serious thought, well people don’t seem
to be interested in that sort of thing…
so, the occasional concert; and another
undeveloped gift, for bringing together in opera
people who would never have dared
to seek the gift of singing in themselves…
so, we the gainers in this sad yet joyful way:
we saw you just occasionally; now,
as often as we remember you,
you’re here again, as love.. just, love…
my only sadness, Jennifer,
is that one day, when on your face
(never tell a lady to her face
about her face – yet I insult you
by saying that of you…)
on your face I saw the look
of a little girl who’d done her very best,
yet feared retribution…what demon,
small or large, had you to deal with in yourself?
I regretted then, not speaking out
and asking you about that; yet
you, with your great talent to bring love
were better equipped than I; too wise,
I think, not to know yourself…
for what you brought in your sweet nature –
taking work where it would offer,
playing the piano for a celebrated
but also modest ballet teacher,
playing a white grand piano next to a fern
in Heathrow’s nerve-strained hall…
what you brought was the essence of
that Indian ‘Perfect Prayer’ which so many speak
but not all live out: that nothing can be ‘taken’,
for the remainder is always perfect…
so we will mourn, or celebrate, dear Jenny:
we who were so fortunate,
and who shall remain  blessed for ever
that you have lived on earth..
‘sweet are the uses of adversity’ – for
there’s music in our souls
*
[Jennifer Bowring Pearce, >2007]
Your eyes in my heart,
vast, deep, bluish,
a sweet breeze now touches
the brain, heart, mind and soul,
alluring lips
whisper in my ears again
the depth of your love
as the stars dappled stream flows
not disturbing anybody
reflecting its beauty ever,
wings of love, beauty and eternity
merge into one,
when? from where?
I don't know, sure,
I have got a bit of
soft spot for you and the apple of your eyes,
now, the ring on your little finger,
giggling bangles encircling the wrist,
light green vein on your soft hand
near the silver wrist watch,
swaying earrings stroking the cheek
appear more beautiful,
birds, flowers, butterflies,
life on the earth,
grass, galaxies, time and infinity,
my mind recollects all these...
Moses and Ten Commandments,
the Bible, the Qur'an, the Gita...
rationalists, communists, atheists...
Darwin, Freud, Newton,
Magellan, Copernicus, Shakespeare,
Van Gogh, Charles Chaplin,
E equals MC squared,
cloning, IT...
pianissimo, play on...
dreams...
an innocent smile
on the face of a child,
tears of a neglected old mother,
a rose lying near the tomb in silence
with scattered tears on the petals,
sleep, death, darkness...
why did I come here?
who sent me here?
where am I going after death?
there is life beyond the grave?
for whom do I wake up in the morning?
why the creations are in pairs: male and female?
why does nature bind me with your eyes?
why does nature allow your eyes
to pierce me so deep?
two doves ruffle their feathers
on the branches near the green leaves,
the sky kisses the ocean
making ripples and waves on its breast,
electrons keep their smartness
near the protons,
day and night play hide and seek,
Tajmahal blazes in the evening rays
pulsating the loveever...
the stars wink at each other
during theirtravel in the space,
moonlight touches the petals of lotus
in romance,
now the pregnant clouds pour,
the flowers and fruits delight the soul,
now, no prejudices,
no narrow domestic walls,
but love
your eyes
vast, deep, bluish...
and right now, I’m spending most of my time
on the two matters of which I seem to know the least –
love; and poetry.
maybe it’s good I feel like this; after all,
they’re two pretty big things in their way;
and if it’s frustrating that
I don’t seem to get anywhere,
or understand any more,
maybe that’s good too since
it keeps me at it
and out of harm’s way
as they say
let’s take poetry first – that’s
relatively straightforward:
one day I love the freedom
of the current situation – there’s no rules
except, the lines are short –
but even that, you can break
with ‘prose poems’ (and leave it
to others to say when 'prose poems'
become ‘poetic prose’ etc…) :
tell the unvarnished truth,
tell it like it is; offer all your heart
ungiftwrapped;
then next day I miss the music
of a poem that – with some difficulty –
rhymes and dances in its rhythms,
catches you in its woven spell,
reads as if it wrote itself,
sings its own fair song,
even though of course
the rhyme then makes you deviate
from the theme – but that can take you to
more interesting places in the mind —
so - point of this - I’m none the wiser
about what poetry is; though of course
maybe there’s some benefit I just don’t spot
by kinda mixing thisnthat..
so, when I’m not writing this stuff
that I call poetry, if I call it anything,
I’m addressing the question
of love; in the hope
that thinking about it might just be
of some use; influence action; and
make me more loving; or help me
write poetry about it, ha..
well don’t ask me, not just yet..
though, we all know what love is...
when it’s on our side?
one day, I feel good that I’ve spent the day
reading inspiring words, like,
the whole Creation is one single act
of love; that it brought the whole universe
into manifestation; sustains it; merges all things into love;
that love is knowledge; holds all forms
through law, by law; that law and love
are always together; that love’s
the natural state of ourself; that
every creature has pure love within its nature;
that thus, it’s our very nature
to love one another; love
our neighbour as ourself…
even, love ourselves...
then the next day, I can’t bear
to read any more of what’s written
about love; just spend the day in love
with everything and everyone;
being still a little, listening to music a little,
reading inspiring poetry a little,
going out or not going out,
being just myself a lot; seeing things around
inside the house and out
so vividly, it’s like being high
without the before and after, and
I wonder why it isn’t
always just like this..
then the next day again, I’m just too busy
to give thought to thinking about love,
or being loving to those bloody neighbours
then the doorbell rings – and
I greet whoever it is before
I even look at them, as if
they’re the one person out of all the world
I most wanted to see again right now – and
it’s someone to read the meter –'hallo!
what, again so soon? I’ve only just paid
the last bill, and anyway, it always comes
as ‘estimated’, and too high…'
too late – I’ve loved them totally
in that first moment; I'm like
someone else; I find myself
treating them like an honoured guest;
see them out with a friendly comment; feel good;
a sorta indifferent, unthought, unshaped happiness..
maybe there’s something to be discovered
in all this love thing,
whatever it is.. maybe
I’ll go try to write a poem about it,
see where it goes
[This poem is dedicated to the memory of Bukowski, the poet
who taught us to write it like it is - even if his later work...]
We do not have to seek for love
nor fear it ever go:
but simply, rest within ourself;
then, love perforce must flow:
for who’s the sweetest company,
as parent, sister, brother?
Those restful ones, always themself;
as one who knows no other..
*
[This came after watching ‘The Big Sing’:
every seat in the Albert Hall taken
by those singing their hearts out
to fine words; while simultaneously and
in unsought parallel, love flowed..]
For thy heart beats of pain.
For it yearns for love
Yet, love is not on the scale
of gain.
For thy heart is slowly beating
away..
For the cries and heartache
seems to never end
For it is here to stay.
Through thy hidden fears..
only thy cries speaks very
loudly.
For at one time..it was disguised
with smiles very proudly.
Yet, no one seems to notice the pain
that grows inside of thee.
For thy have kneeled on thines
knees..asking...
'is this how it's gonna be? '
Trust
Devotion
and Love is not in the picture,
For trine heart is broken and
crushed into different measures and
mixtures.
For how thy pray to the heavens for
love.
For one can only wait for the
answer  from way up above.
For thy love being in love....
but ones discovered that love don't
love thee.
For time has passed..love seems to
hide from thee.
How can this be?
For one feels that love is not meant
for thee.
Hoping
Wishing
and Praying that love is for thee.
Hopefully a miracle will come and
open thy eyes..So thy can see that
love is there for thee.
But until then...thy' Love Being In Love..
But Love Don't  Love Thee.'
The End!
Even In sleep the old man weeps,
his heartbeat a throb, love gone - love gone.
Each moment too long since he held her tight,
swaying heart to cheek to his favourite song.
He carries the burden of mournful flight,
swooping and gliding - the highs - the lows.
To tearfully soak through the solace of wit,
whistle through lungs and in-between toes.
Day after day the old man weeps,
his footsteps echo -  love gone - love gone.
The sun burns an imprint of dust on his face
There is no-one to lay his heart down upon.
At dusk unfamiliar shadows brush past.
he curses the moon so whole and bright.
screams - at the stars that continue to shine.
asks again, and again, who gave them the right.
One night in his bed the old man slept
his pulse wants to race love gone - love gone,
Then a peaceful smile crept over his face,
and he willed himself follow, go on - go on.
Roan Jan 2009
Love
is found;
enraptured
are two, then shared
are understanding
and trust entwined with truth.
Defined are dreams and romance;
aroused are emotions inside;
whenever destiny is working.
~~~**~~~
Working is destiny whenever
inside emotions are aroused.
Romance and dreams are defined.
Truth with entwined trust and
understanding are
shared, then two are
enraptured;
found is
love.
Love is the coin in the fountain
The wish that’s never granted
Love is the night sky that has more stars than you need
But less stars than you want
Love is that story that doesn’t have a clear ending
And no matter what you do, you can’t imagine a happy one
Love is that sky with only a single cloud
And just when you need the sunlight it creeps in front of the sun
And the light goes out
Love is that mark on you
The one you were born with
Want to get rid of
But wouldn’t be the same without
Love is that little tree standing lonely on field
You always think it’s in the way
But really it makes the field what it is
Love is the sand on the beach
Alone a grain of sand is nothing
Together it’s everything
Love is the river
It may look calm and still
But the truth is it never really stops
And you can never step in the same river twice
Love is what makes me write this poem….its what makes you read it
It’s the gravity that holds you down
And the air that can raise you up
It’s the force that moves you
And the wall that makes you stop
Its way you live
And the reason you want to die
But it’s also the reason you keep holding on
It’s the hope that gives us miracles
And the bad times that make you appreciate the good.
Its way I love you guys you see….
And the way you guys love me…
_________Author's Prologue____________
Originally written for my (then) 12 year old daughter
on her challenge for me to write a rhyming poem in
less than ten minutes, with a love theme story line to
boot... this is what I was able to conjure up. As a rule
I am not a great fan of rhyming poetry, tho' I have
written some over the years. However, in this one
special case I must admit indulging in my daughter's
challenge...and was very glad that I took her up on it.
Now,24, she still rides me now and again in how she
conned me into writing a rhyming love poem! It was on
the PH Top 500 Poems List from 2006-2012(topping out at
#68) in 2007. Unfortunately, the work was accidently deleted by me,
so, I thought I'd resurrect it one more time...........FjR
..................................... ................................................. .
LOVE...Is...LOVE...Is...LOVE...
I t's the kiss......before the goodnight
It's the bliss after dimming the light
It's the memories....of special day's
It's the tempering.....clouds of grey
It's the turn.....of one's other cheek
It's the silence before the arm reach
It's the excitement of your first date
It's the enlightenment..... you create
It's the shoes...you leave at the door
It's the muse.....you call your amour
It's the sharing.....of wine and seeds
It's the caring...to honor and please
It's the start of your day's in the sun
It's the hearts of 2......that beat as 1
It's the diamond shopping...at Kay's
It's the roses........on Valentine's Day
It's the sunset.......you nestled under
It's the lightning.....'fore the thunder
It's the morning they call 'The After'
It's the yawning.....and the laughter
It's the healing.......of passions scars
It's the feeling its cures' in the heart
It's the action of words..you profess
It's the passion.......and nothing less
It's the passion.......and nothing less
Frank James Ryan, Jr.
Copyright ©2006
All rights reserved
LOVE IS
Always good mannered, bears up under stress
Looks for ways to be kindly, is quick to confess.
LOVE IS NOT
Ever possessive, nor needs to impress.
Not touchy, nor jealous if it seems to get less.
LOVE IS
Looking to share, and hopes for good things.
Knows no limits to taking what life sometimes brings
LOVE IS NOT
Proud or boastful, it does not feel revoked
By injuries suffered, nor is it provoked.
LOVE IS
Decent, believing, looking for good.
Contented, yet happy when misunderstood.
It's trusting, and hoping, as love always should.
Thus love begets love. It personifies God.
Lets hold  up the feelings we deem to call Love.
Comparing them close in the light of above.
I can not fathom, the reasons
nor understand the significance
why does love just blossoms
in the garden of the heart's stance
and grows abundantly
at any given chance
Love I suppose, is freedom
of the heart and soul
It exists to sooth boredom
and brings zest to all
No matter what it does
Its nativity is a call
For love is love
Boundless and true
Every one is each love
Some thing...
Some budy love god
Some budy love butterfly's
Some budy love dog's
Some budy love sex...!
Some budy love painting'S
Some budy love money
Somebudy something love
The life...
Something is hear
Many thing and anything
Love the men and women's
For life day's
Life is a not  for life
Heart of love love
All ways love love....!
She took away my fears
and opened my heart
like a letter
and found written
Love, love and love
all over.
Love is the salt, in the life-meal
If you taste it unsalted, many times hurt you feel
Love is something real, you cant pretend
If you have no feelings, give it an end
Love is a combination, that join two
Makes them one with passion true
Love is to feel good with all your deeds
When the phrase 'crazy change' your life leeds
How do you write a poem
about Love?
It cannot be caught
and is beyond words’
power of depiction.
It has no place to be,
all places are filled
with Love.
Without Love would
anything have any savour?
Love is what joins
Love is what flows
Love is what counts
Love is what grows
Love is what’s known.
Love is all around
Love is all about
Love is all we ask
Love is all we give
Love is all I have.
Love wants nothing
Love needs nothing
Love misses nothing
Love excludes nothing
Love is what this is all about.
Joining, flowing, counting,
growing, knowing
around, about
asking, giving, having
All is Love,
of that I have no doubt.
Love love love love and if love is okay,
I know love is there to makes you grow,
I know also lack of love makes you decay.
Love, love, love!
Is very special
And so warm
Because it is
A feeling
That comes
Out from our hearts
That we give
To the ones that
We love and cherished
The most in our lives
From east to west from north to south
Let all creation find
That truth is always in our mouth
And peace is on our mind
Let’s live our lives to others now
Let’s touch The Father’s heart
To Jesus let our knees but bow
From evil take no part
Until the world’s is Satan free
Till Jesus reigns supreme
Let’s help our blinded neighbours see
That life is not a dream
Let empathy become our creed
Compassion wear a crown
Plant in the world a thoughtful seed
Bedecked with selfless gown
To fellow man, do no more wrong
Our neighbours cause no ruin
Let love become our living song
And dance alone its tune
However high we pay the price
Let love become our guide
Let hate become our sacrifice
On altars far and wide
Its love its love its always love
That melts a heart of stone
So let its fruit from God above
Transform our flesh and bone
Let neighbours see the joy within
Love’s fruit give free to eat
Encourage them to walk from sin
And sit at Jesus feet
Oh it's so easy to say -
'Give what you think you lack -
You feel unloved? Then give love, and love, and love...'...
On the other hand -
Do you have any better advice?
Love is not
Love...
Love is sex...!
Love is not
Love
Love is money...!
Love is not
Love....
Love is dream...!
Love is not
Love
Love is states...!
Love is not
Love
Love is sin....!
Love is not
Love
Love is funney...!
Love is not
Love
Love is religion...!
Love is not
Love
Love is nation...!
Love is not
Love
Love is black....!
Love is not
Love
Love is white...!
What is this....! ?
This is a list of love's
But..nothing....!
Love is a love
Upper the earth
And under the sky
For any thing with
EVERY thing for love love love
Making each one with love
Love love love...!
call me
and I will rise
raise me
and I will love
love...
love...
love...
love...
love. ..
love...
love...
love...love...love... love...love..
love...love......love.....lo ve.......
love.......love.......love...... ..............love
love...............                                            love/...............
love............                                    love.............love
love.................... ...love..................love
love.....                                                                     love...
love....                                                              love....
love......                                                 love........
love...                                       love........
love....                               love.....
love....                    love....
love....        love....
love.....love
love ...love...love...love..
love...
love...
love...
love...love...love....love...
love. ...
love....
love....
love....
love.. ..love...love....love....
they were lovers once
emotions ripple in pond
they count what went wrong
the moon is lonely tonight
a white flag of surrender
Love, love, love...
Thanks goes to the all mighty one from up above.
You've brought my mate just to my side...
You've led the spiritual path for your son's holy guided stride.
He gave up his life for your good holy loved wide spread word...
Many people were forgiven,
of this fact forgiven ex-sinners have world widely heard.
Fate united me to my bride...
Cupid's arrow gave me such a wonderful wild crazy ride.
Thank God...
Amen!
Fingers mesmerizing cool and soft against skin
Tongues softly seeking whipping tasting lingering
Arms clutching holding wrapping enfolding yearning
Love making  Love
Bodies yours to mine moulding wanting
Caressing touching electrifying
Silken subtle gentle
Wild and wonderful
Feathered touch
Crushed rose petals
Breaths heavy hot hard
Molten Volcanic
Fiery delight
Essence of love
Passion
Unforgettable irrisistable unimaginable
Lavender Chamomile Jasmine
Sweet sultry
Amazingly beautiful
Fantasy Dream Reality
Love making Love
Love me, love me, love me
White says love me
Never, Ever, Never
My heart say nevermore.
White gives peace
White gave me pollution
White sowed purity
White spoiled my chastity.
White is superior
It made me inferior
White is cultured
It destroyed my culture.
White is all
Who said this all
You, its only you
Not I, never will I.
White says love me
I say I don't
White asks why I wont
Because you ruled at my own.
I once wrote some poetry - the best,
the finest POETRY
My POETRY came with a capital
"P".
My POETRY was distinguished
POETRY, proper, complete line of
Verse POETRY - honorable,
prehistoric, geographical POETRY
Divine, instinctive, even religious
POETRY -
I sent it to the magazines
The very good magazines
The very best magazines -
They returned it to me every time!
I once wrote some inferior POETRY
Low in style, irregular in measure
POETRY
Undignified, trivial, absurd POETRY
inadequate, mischievous, comic
POETRY
Some stuff like this - A CRIME -
I sent it to the magazines
The very good magazines
The very best magazines
They kept it every time!
Now, I ask of you - my question is
fair and brief - I ask
Of you - your ear I pray and beg you
give -
Shall I write intuitive,
comprehensive, reasoning
POETRY
Specific, Godlike, Capitol
committed POETRY
The sort I think will live?
Or shall I write inferior, very bad
POETRY - the kind that soon is
Dead - and send it to the magazines,
the very good, the best magazines
THAT I MAY LIVE INSTEAD!!!
Love oh love is everywhere
Like inside my dream,
Here and there yesteryear
Puffing up lofty stream;
Spring is once again near
With morning so plentiful,
Winter on its underwear
The last of the frosty jewel.
Love oh love is coming now
Blooms soon starting to show,
Worries die out somehow
With the last winter's blow;
Give me a hope in the living
That will follow a sunny day,
There is so much worth giving
In the beginning of new May.
Love oh love is here to share
With wonderful thing to be,
To heal the old shallow arr
That once were here adoptee;
Spring's again nearly born
Filling my longings and wish,
What in earth ways I adorn
I can't be without all this.
This is a LOVE poem about all the poems I love, about love, poems...
All who have tasted the finest love,
speak the same language.
It can be recognized by the heart!
All this music, of love-poetry we play,
a beauteous symphony,
felt by whom? ignored by most,
we host truth.
All other verse that resonates not,
comes from brilliant, intellectual thought.
Do you want to read about Barbecued ribs, or EAT them?
Even if I describe them well?
Their tenderness and juicy smell...
Do you want to learn about love
and then pass-on your knowledge?
Sounding like you are learned and
right the hell out of college!
Or...
Get roped and dragged in, beaten...
Then nursed and recover,
from loves first round with you?
Not yet even have you had a taste!
Little do you know it will SLAY YOUR SOUL, left to bitter WASTE!
Young ones you love
and passionate you are,
but it is a bar game
or in the back of a car.
The love that is real,
is the love that may kill you,
rip you to shreds
and your guts it will spill you!
From the top of the mountain
to the bottom of the pit,
You will crash down after flying
and be done with that $#it!
From that flight on fire
and the crash so violent,
that is from where the spark re-bursts ~ forth,
before the fuel re-ignites...
I'll leave it there, a common language amongst lovers,
a total mystery to those who seek love under covers!
Soft and warm
Sealed with care
Sweet and kind
Will ever share
Brave and strong
Yet so fair
That is her
She's always there
Sensitive
to despair
Harkens to
others welfare
Delicate
she's elsewhere
Beautiful
beyond compare
If you meet her
Best Beware
She'll steal your heart
unaware
Her name is Love
This I swear
There's none like her
anywhere
love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love
Love's Beautiful
I was scared of love -
love was a slap in the face
when I did something wrong
and it got to mom
love is a chase and breaking
my favourite stuff
When parents gave love
they spiced it with hate
when friends gave love
they set conditions and rules
when you love me
is it duty-free -
what is the dividends?
You reminded me how
I completely withdrew
from all forms of life
and lived in a book
so much so that closing the book
stopped me breathing and being
only words on paper
words in a song, music playing
was existence for me...
Feed me love
to fill my cup
with loving feelings
that I can carry with me
wherever I go -
I didn't trust mom
when I was small
and since then
I didn't trust men
I discovered
my father’s love
but recently
he is violent but true
never lies to you
Are you a dream -
whatever the reality
love's a beautiful
phenomenon…
Love Still Untainted
Listening to Mozart’s Piano Concerto*
on the radio – violins are the light
of stars flickering, shimmering, the
piano says of the birth of a beautiful
love in the heart of a man; maimed in
its manifestation by callous hands,
its beauty never reaching the heart
of the beloved one. That love is still
untainted and as sweet as this lovely
composition: will the love of my father
for my mother endure until its revelation
in the life hereinafter –
enduring unto eternity…?
*Concerto No.21 in C
Love Unassuming For M.C.K.
And then you came
and spoke about consideration
and I thought: Where's warm love?
and spoke about alienation
and I thought: Where's the passion?
and focused on doing the right thing
and consistency and loyalty and quiet love
and I thought: What is that thing
called love that is so unassuming?
I thought love was all-consuming...
and that after the fire had burnt out
nothing would remain
but your love kept on burning
with a pure and beautiful flame
and awakened such  sweet love in me
filled me with such a feeling of security
that left my blighted youth behind
so that today I find
I love you even more than before
Love a Scorpion & Needs Of Another
To Love A Scorpion
I used to cry
when you stung me
with your honesty
and angry attacks
I thought if you
loved me, you would
not be angry with me
for being fearful and scared
Then I read
people show their love
differently,  there are
codes of love – when we
understand the character
of a loved one, we’ll be
able to discern the love
clothed in idiosyncrasy
When I saw your
Astrogenetic sign:
Scorpio – with the sting
in the tail; it is your
nature to be brutally
honest, to judge mercilessly,
a light went on for me:
a Scorpion’s love does entail
merciless attack, not for lack
of love; but because of it -
without love, you destroy completely
with love, you are authoritative
Difficult as it may be
I love my Scorpion
together we soar
you’re an eagle – when you’re glad
Together we crawl
in the dust – when you’re sad
together we burn up
in the heat of your anger
but like the phoenix
we rise again – reborn
after your emotional storm:
Now I know
your code of love
and why you attack,
I can deal with it
in a new way – and
my Astrogenetic sign
gives me permission
to cry enough
to wash all the pain
away!
Make Way For The Needs Of Another
Nobody said relationships were easy -
we are both in love with love, though
you cannot cope with the quick ebb and
flow of my emotions – your feelings
change slowly  while mine are in flux –
I keep my pose when dealing with you;
not wishing to rock the boat – sometimes
regretting that I can’t be me – but then,
I have poetry to write it all down, deal with
the sting of jealousy, manipulation and
arrogance – and woe is me when I point
out these traits – so let’s keep the peace;
I’m proud of the way you pursue these
demons of yours - fighting relentlessly;
weighing pros and cons we can make things
work; please do not be so unforgiving; let’s
make room for the failings of others, let’s
visit the Queen of Hearts and my sister the
Duchess someday; let’s start with a
clean slate and make way for the
needs of another...
he offered her all the treasures that she desired
if only she could put out his fire.
the fire that was in his soul
was starting to burn out of control.
but! of him she did not want any part
for she was in love with another
and this man was his brother.
his love so deep, and so profound
he let out a scream, without a sound.
seeing the way she looked at his brother
he knew then, that there would be no other.
his love for both, was so strong
that he knew, together they belonged.
so with his heart in his hand
he decided to make a plan,
to show them that they belonged together
and through marriage, their life
would be better.
now they both knew, that his
heart was broken
but! another word was never spoken.
he had shown them that his love
was strong enough, to endure the pain.
and that their love, should be the same.
unknowingly this was part of GODS plan
to see the love that he had within
given up for love of his brother.
the LORD already had a new love, on her way
and forever in his heart she would stay.
so on his brothers wedding day
a beautiful woman passed his way.
eyes so deep, hair so black
he almost caught a panic attack.
and as their eyes met, and their
hearts slowed down its pace.
he knew that it was the end of the race.
for now they both had the love they desired
and she would be the one
to put out his fire.
Am I sick cos I hate to hate you,
You made me hate you,
Let myself hate you,
When it's all your fault,
...Cos you made me love you,
Yeah you made me hate to love you,
Now I hate myself.
So twist through time,
If you ever look back...
Admit you used me like the other damn Jacks!
So all that time you were lying?
All that time I was a fool?
Now this time I lay dying,
Drowning in this apathy pool,
These salted tears the gullable shed,
Well I've shed mine,
With guilt and dread,
Hear the voices,
Conscience in my head,
Now I can't trust it,
My conscience's dead.
Bittersweet, bitterweet tears run down,
All that time, I choked, I drowned,
I bled these thoughts again and again,
In my mind again, and again...
Love to love,
Love to be loved.
Love a person,
Love a person inside and out.
To judge is to hurt,
To hurt is to not love.
Not to love is not to love yourself,
Not to love yourself is not to love other.
Not to love other is not to recieve love,
Not to recieve love hurts
Everyone in the end.
Love was.....
When 'if' lay between you and I
And 'never' seemed forever
I fell to earth in surrender
And you became the centre of my eye
Love is.....
When I pass by you accidentally
I grab a sense of your smile
When between us is distance measured by the mile
I grab a sense of our love immeasurably
Love will be.....
When I can no longer see to see
When I can no longer hear to hear
I know you will be near
Simply just you and me
Love eternally.....
When God granted us our wish finally
He put in us a throbbing heart
When it stops from this earth we will depart
But our Love will live eternally
(For S.....)
My book of selected poems "My Voice is Silent to My Fears" is now available as a Kindle e-book.
LOVE - what is love?  A great and aching heart;
Wrung hands; and silence; and a long despair.
Life - what is life?  Upon a moorland bare
To see love coming and see love depart.
love love love  without love but love
love in midnight love in any time or place without  any  place
love through light and heart of the  nymphs of the sea
love  and some of realism  also existence
love and storm of leaves with papers of love
love in bed of love who need more divine lady
love  dreams through love
FOR Love from  UNITED  LANDS
..........  LOVELY  song
from the seas   OF  passionate love TO THE PACIFIC OCEAN
and LOVE  WITH BROKEN HEART
can say take my heart
for  sonata    SUN LIGHT
FROM......... dream land
TO MY  life are not poor OR RICHNESS  WITH COLOSSAL
an ODE
enough AND OUT..........liquefaction
not rich enough not poor enough
LOVE  like  LOVE
out of OUR  wreck economic.......without rest?
Psychological  -  War
yet only  I CAN`T love more
are my love  can  stay for MY  LOVELY LADY
by providence
WHO FEEL BY
MODERN AGES  AND STONE AGE IN FOG OF POETRY
AND ' BED OF SEAS '
BED
OF
LOVELY
TIME?
WHAT`S.......... FROM TEN YEARS  AND
PEACE COME WITH  THE DREAM milky way
BEFORE  ANY  SONG
ARE YOUR  BEING FOR
LOVE  FOR EVER? ?
BEING OF  LOVE
WAEL MOREICHEH
love you, and don`t know how to love you....
or why i love you...
or how your love came to me...
love you, because you are my passion and my amatory...
because you are my first letters in my school...
and my first picture in my memory...
and my air which is in my chest...
love you, because you, whom taught me your love...
love you, because you are my way and my poems...
love you, because you are my sky and my moon, in my lonely nights..
love you....
because you, whom pain me..
love you, because you, whom gave me and let me to drink her love...
love you, because, when i feel tired..
i search at the peace of my mind in your eyes...
and search for my bed at your chest...
and search for my details life in your memories...
love you, because, i am your child..
whom you taught him, how to love you...
and how he can die for your love..
and love you until a craziness...
love you, because you are my story and mt romance story...
which i always looking for a happy ending...
love you, and don`t know how to love you...
and can`t to be, except a beloved..
and can`t to breathe any, except your air...
and to live inside you...
and to die, when your dreams dead...
love you, because you are my history...
and all my past life confirmed to me your love..
and my present life, tells me your honest...
and my future, guide me to your loving..
love you and don`t know how to love you..
and don`t know what to say more...
Thus piteously Love closed what he begat:
The union of this ever-diverse pair!
These two were rapid falcons in a snare,
Condemned to do the flitting of the bat.
Lovers beneath the singing sky of May,
They wandered once; clear as the dew on flowers:
But they fed not on the advancing hours:
Their hearts held cravings for the buried day.
Then each applied to each that fatal knife,
Deep questioning, which probes to endless dole.
Ah, what a dusty answer gets the soul
When hot for certainties in this our life!--
In tragic hints here see what evermore
Moves dark as yonder midnight ocean's force,
Thundering like ramping hosts of warrior horse,
To throw that faint thin line upon the shore!
Love ere he bleeds, an eagle in high skies,
Has earth beneath his wings: from reddened eve
He views the rosy dawn. In vain they weave
The fatal web below while far he flies.
But when the arrow strikes him, there's a change.
He moves but in the track of his spent pain,
Whose red drops are the links of a harsh chain,
Binding him to the ground, with narrow range.
A subtle serpent then has Love become.
I had the eagle in my bosom erst:
Henceforward with the serpent I am cursed.
I can interpret where the mouth is dumb.
Speak, and I see the side-lie of a truth.
Perchance my heart may pardon you this deed:
But be no coward:--you that made Love bleed,
You must bear all the venom of his tooth!
more than a love, I Love You...
I would travel a thousand miles, just to be with you...
I would yell with a high voice, just to hear me from there...
I would cry  with no stop, just to let you feel within me as i do...
I would write a thousand love poems, just to see how much i think of you...
I would climb and fly to the end of sky, just to let you know that my world you are...
i would touch the sun and the moon, just to give you the passion that you deserve...
i would erase all a sadness from this world, just to keep you happy always in a happiness..
I would hold all a love in this world, just to give it only for you...
more than a love, i love you..
would you love me as i do...
hazem02@yahoo.com
I don't always tell you
that the joy you bring,
brightened my way.
The years you've made
happy by sharing you cared!
I don't always tell you,
that the love you give brightens every day I live.
I'm thinking today of all that we've shared.
You've given encouragement, brightened my ways.
But the most important part of all
my Cherished hopes and plans and dreams.
You've listened to problems, always known what to say.
you mean more to me than anything.
I don't always tell you, how much I loved you!
The memories we've known, all the laughter and fun.
And I just want to say on this day, I set apart.
Darling, I love you with all my Heart!
You said to me that you will be there on that day
but when that day came then you were not there for me
So much love showered and so many promises were made
but nothing worked on my way because you had gone
My love, I am crying for you because my love turned blue
The heaven stolen you from me and left the memories only
Though your soul vanished in the sky but my love never dies for you
I tell those angels how much I love you and care for you
and ask them to make your soul always happy till I come to you
My love, I am crying for you because my love turned blue
Looking at your photos and wish you were here with me
Crying for your endless love which become the end of story
I will not see you again but your memories will stay for ever
Now my heart fighting against a raw pain for the lost of my love
My love, I am crying for you because my love turned blue
When I love you so, then I look at your eyes
Love can be anything when you are in my arms
My love, I love you more than anything in this world
Let me get into your heart to give my love that I have
When I love you so, then I feel your body language
Love can be more than a love when you love me so
My love, I love you as much as you could do
Let me get into your heart to give my power that I have
When I love you so, then I hear your heart beats
Love can be true when you touch me with your soul
My love, I love you the way you love me
Let me get into your heart to give my life that I have
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2006 Ravi Sathasivam
My love, your love, his love, and our love
Are all different from each other
Let me tell you about my love first
My love is very weak
Like the baby
That had just been born
Today
Your love
Is very strong
Like the thunder
That is going on in the sky
Right now
His love
Is very special
Because he is giving
It to us right now
O love love love love love love love
Makes me so glad baby makes me so sad
O love love love love love love love
Makes me so good baby makes me so bad
Your warm touch makes me feel like male
Your negligence burns me like hell
O love love love love love love love
What is love baby who can tell?
You can make me feel so dreamy
You can arouse envy in me
O love love love love love love love
Love can make me curse you baby!
PRIMEVAL my love for the woman I love,
O bride! O wife! more resistless, more enduring than I can tell, the
thought of you!
Then separate, as disembodied, the purest born,
The ethereal, the last athletic reality, my consolation,
I ascend--I float in the regions of your love, O man,
O sharer of my roving life.
Am I falling for him or is htis just puppy love? Even though he's not mine I still get weak from his hugs. It's crazy how my parents say it's just puppy love but not this time around.What do I feel when i know im like a rebound? I want him to be the one but who really knows.....? I know he's good just like a pound of dro. So is it puppy love or is it real love? I may never know so this is the way i feel.....
scarlet beats the heart
tranquility in my soul
when you ~ in my arms
The side glances of the lover
From the east from the mountains
From the deserts from the wild
Looks to the moon and counts stars
Talks to himself sometime sings
Gets angry soon but loves like mad
Cries like rivers smiles like angel
What he wears what he not
So selfless and in his world lost
Who is he across the table
With candle lit I wait for him
Will he come and whisper sweet
I will show my earring to him
A band on arm a move of my hair
But he looks into my eyes
He is drawing my sketch
Shall not I see him once again
Never love a stranger for they
Make you weep for night and day
22/1/2009
I know where shall he go
Seven seas or oceans as he lives
In my heart of flesh and emotions deep
No gold I want but love forlorn
From earth to heaven stars and moon
With one glance of love he shall be mine
Away the seductress the arms you bare
My lips parched of my garment unaware
And thou sayest my love thou steal
My love so pure so pure like a child
From Eden descended and anointed with waters
That I brought from my spring of love
23/1/2009
The sun went down for the night to cover
The earth that lay bare in front of me
Like the face you hide for the lover to adore
The curves and lines the dusk of your beauty
Like dark clouds pattering the aroma of earth
The sketch on coal on the white of moon
The river convulsing in matriarchal rage
When I was the shore infinite for the deluge
Overflowing and exuding like volcano
On the sand I made and made again
From the moon the sketch I remember
The reflection in the river with a soul
It was like the jewel on your forehead
The wounds on my heart when I blow
Who says forgetfulness I have acquired
Nothing is left of me for my self to know
Eloquence I add to words like music
In counterpoint when it turns on itself
Like the lock of your hair that touches
The cheek and the lips when they speak
In the colors of fire thou appear to me
Remove my name from the verse of venom
Thou shalt be Cleopatra and thou shalt take
Thy life with lust to be bitten by serpent
The serpent of love that thou playeth with
And when my blood thou shall rub on thy cheek
And mourn the beaten bosom for the lost love
27/1/2009
X
Yet, love, mere love, is beautiful indeed
And worthy of acceptation. Fire is bright,
Let temple burn, or flax; an equal light
Leaps in the flame from cedar-plank or weed:
And love is fire. And when I say at need
I love thee . . . mark! . . . I love thee—in thy sight
I stand transfigured, glorified aright,
With conscience of the new rays that proceed
Out of my face toward thine. There's nothing low
In love, when love the lowest: meanest creatures
Who love God, God accepts while loving so.
And what I feel, across the inferior features
Of what I am, doth flash itself, and show
How that great work of Love enhances Nature's.
Yet, love, mere love, is beautiful indeed
And worthy of acceptation. Fire is bright,
Let temple burn, or flax; an equal light
Leaps in the flame from cedar-plank or weed:
And love is fire. And when I say at need
I love thee
...mark!...
I love thee
--in thy sight
I stand transfigured, glorified aright,
With conscience of the new rays that proceed
Out of my face toward thine. There's nothing low
In love, when love the lowest: meanest creatures
Who love God, God accepts while loving so.
And what I
feel,
across the inferior features
Of what I
am,
doth flash itself, and show
How that great work of Love enhances Nature's.
The measure of love, in truth, is this:
To treasure each sigh, close by, then kiss!
I've revelled each girl I yearn,
Just to discern
The measure of love!
Soft embraces, gazes...
In search for one true friend...
Let go... then watching love grow...
Then lips pressed tight, just right,
As if our two hearts said, 'Hello! '
Love prays this is so...
The measure is true in gentlemen...
Right out of the blue! So who knows when?
It's meant to astound you, too...
So you can view
The measure of love!
I once was asked concerning love versus hate
Why does it seem that hate is so great?
While hate is a very strong emotion too
Nothing can equal love that is true
The weight of hate is very heavy to bear
While it seems like love is lighter than air
Accounts of hate make a big news headline
While actions of love you must look hard to find
But when you consider that love is patient, kind,
Envieth not, not pompous, not puffed up, not rude,
Seeketh not her own, slow to anger, thinks no evil,
Rejoices not in wrong doing, but rejoices in the truth,
Bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things,
Endures all things, and never fails*
You soon learn that the density of love is so much,
Although the scales be heaped with a great volume of hate
It's catapulted by a mere measure of love's touch,
Love strengthens the bearer so one feels not its weight
*author's translation of 1 Cor 13: 4-7
© 2011
love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding wedding
To Love Or Not To Love
That is the question
Should or shouldn't we
To know love
To be love
You've got to feel love
You've got to know
When your in love
Or not
Do you know how it fills
To be in love
You've got to feel it
It feels so good to be in love
Your head rushes
Your heart beats
A million beats a minute
You can't stand it
When you have to be away
From him/ her for long periods of time
You think about him/ her 24/7
You dream about him/ her
You day dream about him/ her
To love or not to love
To love you've got to know
The risk of what happens
After you love
Not to love you've got to know
That this is really what you want
To feel love you've got to be love
You've got to love him your self
That is why
To love or not to love
Is and has always been
The main question of loving
This is why most people love
Know that they know every thing
About the person and the risks
This is why we love
Because we love him/ her
This is why we don't love
You don't know the person that well
Love and be happy
Or
Not love and be misserble
So I love
Just like others should too
If true love is love truly
then let true love be true
don't rip a hole in my chest
and crush my blood pump
if you are not surely sure
then walky walk out the front door
cause i'm not playing tricky tricks
or hide and find
with your playful mind
If true love is love truly
then let true love be true
stay with me and love me
and i'll stay with you and love you
They say watching someone you love
Love someone else
Is the hardest thing you can do.
But did they know that it
Can also snap you in two?
Rip out your heart and disconnect
Your soul,
Make you weep every night alone
In the cold,
From being alive and ok with things,
Your mind turns to black,
And the hatred it brings
Makes you aware of yourself,
For better, for worse,
In sickness, in health,
Suddenly it seams
You’re in your own personal hell
You know not from where
It was that you fell,
And all this because
I love you with all,
But all I got in return
Was another brick wall.
Why do we love love so much when it never did us any good,
We love love for the fun of it, or just because we know we could.
But the question is, why do love hate us,
I always said, ' It's better love than lust.'
Love hates us because we never show ownership,
We just see each other as friends, we don't even see a relationship.
Love doesn't hate us, it's just we abuse it so,
Because once love is given to us, we don't want it anymore.
We do love love, and love loves us too,
Love is just tired of the different ways it's used.
for feeling cross heart of  seas like love
passionate roses and  lips
sweet  body and lovely soul of venus
where our wars and
life ....can only  dance  waltz with water lily
my heart can burning with you
like  XMAS tree
when - all humanity live with peaceful dream or
any wars?
You give to me hope
And help me to cope
When life pulls me down
You bring me around
You teach me to care
And help me to share
You make me honest
With kindness the best
From you I learned love
With grace from above
It's for you I live
And I want to give
You are the reason
That fills each season
When I hear love I think of you
You are my world and best friend too
I love you because you are so kind, thoughtful and caring
I love you because you are so pleasant, lovely and sharing
You made me the man I am
Thank you
© 2012
< br>
love love love       love love love
love love love love   love love love love
love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love love
love love  love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love
love       love love love love love love love love
love     love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love
love love love love love love love love love love
love love          love love love love love
love love       love love love love love
love love love love
love love love
love love
love
Something makes me sad
Something makes me mad
Something makes me glad
You're not aroun'
'Cause you let me down
Wishing you were here
Wishing you were near
Wishing you were clear
But you confoun'
'Cause you let me down
Now that I am blue
Now that we are through
Now that he's with you
I hope you frown
'Cause you let me down
You have gone away
You have made his day
You have lost your way
Your sin aboun'
'Cause it's him you foun'
(a song)
© 2011
Are stolen fruits the most exciting?
Down on you with tongue delighting
As a butterfly lands on a flower
Then rough and wild hour on hour
A voracious animal, a wild beast
Spreads you out for his feast
Uninhibited bursts of passion
So gentle a tongue, then a lashing
Mouthfuls then fingers in so deep
Sucking and licking – forget sleep!
Stop don’t stop O stop please please!
Rivers run - I’m on my knees!
You grin demented wild and free
Laughing madly in pleasure’s glee
Untamed the passion erupts to bliss
Then a wet dirty hungry kiss!
Vesuvius erupts and earthquakes roar
Howling moaning, come back for more!
In a frenzied torrent of lust and passion
Waves of a storm, downward crashing!
Slow deep and in - the thrusting goes
Till faster faster the whole thing blows!
A runaway train smashing into a station
Eruptions fly in exultation!
Full body slamming from the top
Yields a fair good splashing crop
Full body slamming from behind
You love it babe – hard and kind!
From after midnight thru till noon
Like dogs in heat before the moon!
Entangled and caught within your snare
Your touch and love are all my care.
Jealous ones get (envy)     upon a beauty,
A beauty that has swiped two souls,
One soul wiped by true love,
The other soul is snaped by lust..
Blinded souls lay in streams of hope,
Hope that breeze winded desirous cupidity,
Love scopes spirits relently in  bedevil ways,
Rays of burden burns me deep emotionally,
Emotion is deleterious upon (weepy)     hearts,
Heart is ferociously >attacked< with fake love,
Holler of vociferation utterance has left me killed...
just to give you guys a heads up
a word to everyone true love
can make you happy or sad
depends upon the person u love
Into the dark, dank cellar
I lead you by the hand
towards a marble alter
laid with crimson sheets,
surrounded by cold candles
winking their naked eyes.
I feel you shiver against me
as I gently lay you down,
enter your mind
and read your soul.
You are not, yet, ready
to embrace this open flame.
The dim light flickers,
you fall into my eyes,
softly you sigh my name.
As your will evaporates
I slowly enter your skin
awaiting that first, sweet thrill.
Hot liquid fire burns my lips,
yet warms my heart.
Uncovering your dreams
in each anxious beat
I see your desire for me,
I hear your pain.
Alas, my love,
alone I choose to wander
as warm, pleading hands
chill my blood.
You grow pale now,
all life slips from your eyes
which seem to beg me
to set you free.
Don't cry, my sweet,
I fail to hear that naked plea
over the steady pleasure beat
you have given me.
11/11/08
* thanks for switching on the light in the think-tank on this one, Captain Jack
There is no love or lust
it is body hunger and must
there is nothing like love or attachment
it is pure mechanism for adjustment
Who can define it as pure lust?
can any one claim its purest form
when he or she is not readily informed?
it is purely need that is legally transformed
i wish to condemn all on that name
we can definitely over come it and rename
love or lust grows with time and age
we are simply bonded in  cage
it is fine name given by literary world
we simply blow hot and cold
let there be open soul search?
no one may come forward with his research
it is purest form of love if we can understand
it may mushroom in any form with wife or husband
how do you over come  some short comings?
that is fine phase with new innings
life is nothing new but a bad or good phase
we love to play it and still face
All possible criticism with no fun fare
No one is possible cautious or aware
let us not wrap it in beautiful cover
it existed before and may remain forever
no one has escaped and may not do so in future
this fact must be realized for sure
we are human beings and may react strongly
this is wrost represntation with face so ugly
it is pity we ignore the  universal  fact
it may remain forever as matter of fact
we may strongly disprove
we may try nice point to prove
the world may take note of it but remain unmoved
the misgivings must  at any cost be removed
A night of lust and love
Brush your lips against my neck
And so begins your siren trek
I will obey your call and beck
Am I your paladin?
With my heart do I placate
But with your eyes, you dominate
Fairest maiden, single magnate
Wield me with a passion
Let thy heart be true and clear
Let me love you without fear
Let our souls entangle, dear
Let this be the night
Thus, the stars shine in the sky
Thus, the moonstone rises high
An audience to pain's demise
Embrace your loyal knight
Gently, graze the skin with lust
You smile sweetly; vouch your trust
I then advance; a gentle thrust
A sigh of ecstasy
Tongues engage, a lustful duel
Yet, you win! Oh, how cruel...
Arch for me, my precious jewel
Be this destiny!
Eyes hold fires, raging flames
Lover's passion can't be tamed
Sinful fires! I'm not ashamed
Fury in our love!
Harsher breathing as I drive
Gods! I've never felt so alive
Our souls, now, cannot be rived
The stars envy above
Harder, deeper, slower grinds
A feeling that just blows my mind
I hiss your name and say your mine
The fire consumes us
As we thrust and grind and kiss
I call your name, everlasting mistress
You call my name in utter bliss
The climax of our lust!
A flood of light! We both explode!
We grasp each other and tightly hold!
A cry of impulse thus untold!
We collapse upon each other
Now you gently kiss my lips,
and gently, lovingly sway your hips.
I'll taste your nectar in gentle sips
We truly love one another
Disclaimer: What happens in this poem never happened to me. I only hope it one day does. This was actually a dream I had and it made an impact on me enough that I'd like to share it.
Are you in lust with the world and all its glory?
Are you caught up in fantasy, some fairy- tale story?
Do you live for the moment and crave after feeling,
Self-Satisfied lust, the world keeps on dealing?
This material world, for which we strive,
says 'Get all you can, while your still alive.'
'Claim those riches, and build up a treasure,
go for the gold, yes, money is pleasure.'
I'm sorry my friends, but I must break your hearts,
those riches will stay, when your body departs.
'The love of money, is the root of all evil.'
If you trust in possesions, Salvation is feeble.
Don't let the world, throw you a curve,
it's either God or money, only one to serve.
Cause serving two masters, it can not be done,
pure satisfaction comes from serving God's Son.
For a camel shall pass through a needle before,
one who loves money, will see Heaven's door.
Stop concerning yourself, how the rest will react,
you may loose some friends, it's a well known fact.
Stand up proud, let the worldly see us,
that we're seeking the riches, to be given by Jesus.
These things that you glory in and love with a passion,
can't even compare, to our Heavenly  Manison.
So lay up your treasures, not here on this Earth,
but build them in Heaven, for a spiritual worth.
You've got to take that lust and turn it to love.
Start craving the things from God up above.
The things Heaven offers, are oh-so much better,
fix your eyes up on Jesus and be a Go- Getter.
You glance over and smile,
A smile just for me,
I return it.
But I wish yours,
Meant the same as mine.
There's a hidden passion,
I can't let out.
I have to hold back,
My body screams for you,
I can't get you off my mind.
I wanna be more than friends,
I wanna be everything for you,
But I don't know how you feel.
So I've got to keep it,
To myself,
My secret lust.
eyes the color of gold
there is a story that must be told
a passionate soul that is true
could i be the one for you?
within the darkness of night there is a secret i must hide
could you be the holder of my pride?
through the paleness of life,
you will never let me bring down my knife
with you buy my side i may never die
because i make you form a gentle sigh...
you tell me i have no strife
but what is the point of immortality if you deny your self the simple pleasures in life
the immortality i declare is not the answer so beware
Feeling restless, feeling high
This aching heat, it will never die
It consumes me so, from the inside
Wanting escape, release, be on fire.
I need to hear you breathlessly curse
And moan and sigh my name
To taste the salty sheen on your skin,
And feel every nuance of your passionate embrace
Tell me with your body how much you need me,
Tell me with each thrust how desperate you are
I want to hear your crazy erratic heartbeat
To slowly melt in your heat as you feel me
To taste our sinful essence on your tongue
Entangled in my mouth like you can't get enough.
Throw me on the bed of lust, consume me,
I want you to make me lose myself completely.
They say
Death is not what it seems
It does not replace the screams
in your dreams
It does not resolve those problems
that linger along with dread
All these years Ive had
of hate
of rage
of pain
of sorrow
With one swift movement
I could no longer be here for tomorrow
and I laugh at all the saints
because they know of all this hate
if death never solved
the desires we have
or took away our pain
Then why do so many
end thier lives
because of all their hate
Why do people run
and fear it
When death is nothing but a limit
I could, could take my life today
to show these people
How Im made
To prove them wrong
to watch them cry
Blood lust
is not a crime
and as i lay here
dabating my fate
you all laugh
and scream out
'what a fake! '
But wait and see
for I am me
and the things I think
are not what you may seem
so once again
I point and sing
blood lust
is not a crime
Now what do you think!
Blood dripping from the fangs
that bite
Clothed within the dark
of night
Discarded prey dropped
out of sight
The Vampire stood
Nightly ventures from
his lair
Cruel dark eyes that hold
and stare
Tempting humans
unaware
The Vampire waits
Shadowed by the
trailing leaves
An unsuspecting
victim weaves
The living heartbeat soon
to grieve
The Vampire stalks
Under the cold dark
waning moon
One maiden's blood has made
him swoon
Though undead sleep will
claim him soon
The Vampire feasts
Cursing his old
immortal soul
He dreams and wishes
he were whole
Even in death, life takes
its toll
The Vampire sleeps
Sunset comes in the blink
of an eye
Announcing an already
menacing sky
Savouring the mortal
about to die
The Vampire wakes.
I make my way, through the heavily treed,
leaf covered path, I suddenly see you.
You're standing there, surrounded by wild flowers.
Behind you, a small stream, trembles it's way down
the mountainside. You are so radiantly beautiful,
I overflow, ache with love for you. No words are
spoken. I find myself bursting, for want of your love.
For the need to hold you...touch you.
Slowly, we make our way toward each other.
We meet amid a bed of soft, green moss.
Our hands reach out, touch, and as if in
slow motion, we find ourselves seated
on this bed of Gods making. Your lips
are moist, my heart pounding. Your breath
quickens, as the rise and fall of your full
breasts seem to try to free themselves.
I'm am inches from those lips, I have long
for. As you move toward me, we kiss.
A long, moist, tender... hungry kiss.
A kiss, that fulfills all the promises of
love. I feel myself, melting into your very soul.
I lay you gently back on the bed of green.
You, touching the pulsating volcano
beneath my pants. I unbutton your blouse,
and free you from the thin veiled garment,
that had covered your hardened nipples.
For a brief moment, I stare at you.
Your breasts, moist with desire and your
eyes fill with love and the promise of ecstasy.
I tremble, as if a magnet, the brown circles of
desire, atop your milky white breasts, draw my lips,
to softly encircle your erect nipples.Your hands slide
behind my head, and crush my lips to your softness.
You rip open my pants, clutching the hard roundness, of
my throbbing flesh. I touch you in your most private part
and it is wet...wanting. We clutch, grab, explore
each other, like two wild animals. You open yourself
to me, and murmur, 'Now...now...please now.'
I can wait no longer, as my missile of love,
on the verge of exploding, seeks the inviting wetness,
between your legs. I can barely contain myself, then....
The phone rings. No! No! Not now!
It keeps ringing...ringing...ringing!
Keeper of dreams, I beg you...not now!
Please...not now.
The vision evaporates! I try to recapture
it. The phone, now sounding like an
alarm, persists. I have lost the dream.
I have lost...her.
Dammit! I curse the reality of the moment!
She knows, as do I, I will go to her again.
I can not give her up. For she has become
me...and I her.
Until tomorrow...or another day...or another
time...or another world.
It matters not where she is. I shall find her.
For she is my love...and I shall yet again,
go to her.
© Joe Fazio
I once had a secret crush
People say it must be lust
they don't know the way i blush
This man is so kind
He will really blow your mind
i think of him every night
This crush just wont leave me
and i don't really know why
Maybe one day, the feelings will be free
and i wont have you to see
I want to make him understand
the way i feel for him
I want him to be my man
I don't really want to push it
But after that really long kiss
I could no longer resist it
it is every thing i wanted
I love him so very much
But I feel I will mess up
If I tell my secret crush.
I don't know if he will understand
my love for him it real
My love for you is secret
I weep when we are apart
If I open up my heart
It would rip our friendship apart
So I'll keep my love a secret
A secret of the heart.
By: KASIA
O Lust! you're burning holes in our affair.
We lost our brazen face without a care-
Flaunting all in front of those who scowled,
Laughing at the doleful - e'er we howled!
Ironically, our sneering turned inside
To out the damage, tear apart our pride.
We saw we'd fallen for the devil's dust!
So let's in shame the blade to take and thrust!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
Lust lust lust lust lust
Tequila breath, death, sex, your face.
Little dirty secrets and your young taste.
Never too scared to try what the public hates.
Showing me your naked body with no haste.
I can see the eagerness in your eye's.
I can feel the trembling in your thighs.
You'll just tell your parents lies.
No one knows the sinful lust you tried.
You stick your tongue deep inside my mouth.
Exhilerated, youve become what makes you proud.
A little piece of death inside my eye's.
Lets lock the door and make angels cry.
Sinful lust in the nude you trust.
Inner beauty, our privates our most fun.
Dont be scared, youve done it before.
So its okay, were both filthy whores.
But on the outside we seem so clean.
Sometimes things arent as they seem.
Dirty secrets for eternity.
Well wear our masks for the world to see.
And spending a lot
Over cosmetics, costumes and gyms
Beside being on diet,
Can you define life
Without lust for any?
14.04.2007
Entranced by the jewels of youth
when mischief rules our minds,
and hormones raging, so uncouth,
our eyes upon behinds,
I fell for you, in tender storms
that swelled, beyond the fly,
a promise of what might  be,  resting on the thigh,
And yet
As you raised your staff upward, towards the sky,
the dawning of my vision cleared,
and now I merely question...
What was I thinking?
Gnarled Lust
is a blackened tree
feasting on a murdered landscape;
having been watered by poisoned fertilizers
sprouted gray leaves
displaying a history of
driving Love's Bent;
but, more importantly, also a history of voracious greed, death, blood and atrocities,
its spread now reaches the dead vampire desire for immortality
by sucking red blood from prone victims
who crave
love, sex and death in swain's sucklings
fired of the desire to cheat death and live forever,
even at the cost of dead hand affections
and dark broodings
outside the light-
an ultimate narcissistic
confection
consumed
of poisoned drops;
of failed promises
illusioned drinkings
and bloody hands.
All there in history:
power mongers
mind killers
word demons
culture jailers
dead limp drug healers
all seeking to bury Faith alive
strangle Hope in its baby crib
all watered
under Lust's tree
and producing
millions of dead gray leaves
all embraced
reeking of the still warm blood
sucked from others.
All these in human history
seen marching
lashing the backs of slaves
of women, hapless men
of children;
an obsessed march
toward Lust's Dark Horizons
contorting history
while True Virtue
miraculously at History's Turning Point
ultimately showed its face
and started it's own march toward justice, mercy
and democracy
progress slow to be sure
but relentless
with these transfusions
now turning gray to green in some places,
and that battle
while not yet won
has been joined.
The lesson here my friend
then
is that there is a difference
between Good
and Evil.
Do you ever see me bleed? how my eyes be come so numb
How my body felt so cold and froze can't seem to move a bit
Memorise every step that we take in the affection which was true
Which never seem to break through but all that days has gone
Do you ever heard me cry out for you? in my breathless murn
In my weak heart just broke that I can't take in but to bury all that moments deep inside of me
Why does love is such a crime?
When our love was just so real?
Why would someone want a part like this?
When we knew we were meant to be
How my heart peel into pieces like a broken glass that can't  be un-do
How our feelings and the affeaction is like a drung like what you said to me onces but that last.
How  you wishper Don't worry I knew I'm gone to lost you forever
I knew my heart belonge to you but i give up and let go of you
It ain't felt right to be with you when you had someone'else but me
Left me here with my sorrow lock me up for so long felt like years that you left me here, but for sure you gone but this time is for good
But I'm the one that walk out of for real I can't bury  it inside
Goodbye to you  my love, LOve  Is just like a lust
Giving up on you love Isn't easy
It ain't easy to forget you for sure that is real
It ain't easy to say it to you like this on the telephone
Felt the numb in my weak heart hopeyou hear me for the last
BUt yOU knew how much I LOve you
From my heart and soul which is true
It break my heart to say this way
But can't see it how hard it is for me to say this
Love can be
A miracle surprise
Beaming from
A stranger’s eyes
Whom you meet
On a city street
While the stars
Are dancing around
Her angelic soul
Hypnotizing and
Mesmerizing you
Into psychic rapture;
You take her hand
And walk to the beach,
The beautiful music
Of seashells jangling
Provide the soundtrack
For seduction,
Her small earrings
Beckon your mouth
To kiss and nibble
The ears they adorn,
Her body is warm
As you excitedly inhale
Her perfumed breath of lust,
You’re pleasantly paralyzed
With ecstatic joy!
If beauty is only skin deep as they say
Into your body I would find a way.
I would pull out the beauties that
you have locked up inside
Beauties that you try to hide.
You would be the bread and I would be the jam
And I would cover you every way I can.
I would be on you like white on rice
And do everything nasty, but nice.
I would love you from the bottom
of your feet to the top of your head
You’d be so worn out, you would think
That you was dead.
Lovemaking can be vulgar or as beautiful as can be
It will bring you to a point of ecstasy.
The excitement will make your body sweat
Better than that it can’t get.
Human lust- human desire
There is only one thing that
Can put out this fire.
To fill that crave- to fill that need
Until you dropp that little seed.
And when that happens a child is conceived.
A child is born because of this desire
And then it ignites another fire.
A fire to protect this child so rare
Now that you have it with someone to share.
Day in, day out, we  spend precious time together
Talking and sharing things which interest each other
Night in, night out, we stay in touch
Loving each other, we feel this much.
In every talk we have, you play such a role
Amazingly giving me hints to toss a ball
You help me play BOLO chess, be on the look out it means best
And I guess you’re a perfect buddy I will have than the rest.
We cannot live a single day not seeing each other
Saying passionate words we do in hours; never tire and bother.
I always blush, you do too, as we bite our lips
With every romantic and lustful words as we both sexily tease.
I love the way we love each other, strong and deep
We make the hours worthwhile as we heartily keep
Longing and missing are tolerable each day
Because we know at this moment it’s the only way.
I love the way I lust with you, oh Hon, I do
Sensible and respectful, embracing it, nothing to undo,
We know we need to wait patiently until we can fulfill
The completeness we want to have so much in real.
I don't believe in love, I decided long ago:
that other hearts were summer heat and mine was winter snow
I despised them for their impudence, oh such a long way to go!
I bet myself another life that I would never feel too
What silly girls and silly boys called 'love', their new-
found companionship displayed in sycophantic spew
of words and promises that would change next week.
I thought myself so strong, compared to them so bloody meek
And in every spare debate said as loud as I could speak
'There is no such thing as love'
don't you get it?
Then one day I found myself dreaming, exam half finished beneath me
I couldn't stop imagining your hands on my skin, see?
But it faded when those words escaped your lips, so true it must be
that I am the only one in this stunted world that feels like that.
When dreams flash past I take part,
(Shadows of limbs intertwined I alone would call art) .
It occured to me as daylight, slick and ever bright
Swept away the languid presence, the sloe black, crow black night
Something that had nothing to do with my beating heart. I might
be wrong.
Truth is, I am in lust. Not love, not that patronising knife blade, that ignorant, fetid, unreal stigma, but lust. A real emotion, real, raw and completely deserving of a saint,
a day,
cards that say what we are too polite to,
of songs and books, and precious poems.
Lust is all around, and I'll admit to this:
I'm falling in lust with you,
(just don't quote me on that.)
Introduction: Limit itself has a limit of its own…
A walk, mile after mile
In quest for my lost soul,
I had forgotten how to smile
Everything felt out of control,
I fought too hard to be worthwhile
By that I got lost in my life’s hole
The regrets for mistakes I’ve made
It took me off the edge, way too far away;
Yet I tried again so hard to get off from that shade
But got caught up in my brutal fray,
The same song keeps playing with such a vicious rage,
I find myself down to my knees, nowhere to go - So I pray
A prayer to leave the worst and move onto more,
Come off this fantasy and onto reality, to be -
Closer to something I’ve been fighting for
The touch of the light cutting through the night, it rains down upon me
As I overcome the grief and believe, recovery lies ashore,
Only three steps remain, to be fixed and free.
A lesson of value I earned from my faults -
Never push yourself off the edge,
You’ll lose the only key to the vault
A life you never had to live – It too could forever be lost,
So stay confined within the limits of the limit
As it seems - Your control over lust, only can make you complete.
I was lost 6 months ago
It was lust that drove my soul
I couldn't controll...
what happened that night
What a loss I say to you
It wasn't love
but why not try something new?
Why judge someone you don't know?
Just open your mind and go with the flow
But no...
You had left so many words unspoken
I have questions, but your mind still isn't open
What a loss I say to you
Thoughts of you, how my temperature rises
Your body next to mine so divine
Your touch electric upon my skin
Lost in the lust of our connection.
When we meet my body is alive
My control is abandoned to you
Nothing can equal the feelings I have
I’m lost in my lust for you.
Into a world of pure desire
We are locked together
United we feel the flow
Touch, taste, explore.
Lost to Lust
Bodies entwined
Hearts resounding
the shivers of sweat
coming and going
Those inhibited places
opening up: slowly, gently,
delicately
losing inhibitions
new sensations
A touch here
and a touch there
smokeless fire!
A miracle invisible
to 'him and her'
Yet to You and Me
engulfed in passion
lustful love or lovable lust?
Let love be there
and lust be too
A heavenly feeling
for me and you
feel yourself and feel me too
Fantasies unfold
dreams come true
Me for You and Only You
just the way you wanted to!
Many memories flow through me like blood of a scholar
Or the winds of Mother Nature whispering in your ear
Making you calm watching love in the making creating
A new phenomenon we called love and passion in out lives
Unstoppable pursuit of happiness of everlasting love combines
In our dreams which we continue to lay out and configure
Our puzzle in the meaning of life or to see how it’s plays out
What’s makes it tick or makes it embrace itself upon us
Is it through our five senses we have premonitions in our everyday life?
I say that love have no limits of age, words, or actions to express it
From the cities, to the plains, all the mountains where it’s touch the clouds
I searched, entwined, tasted, touched and embrace love in the craftiest ways
From the times I have my heart broken by love was because love
Got her heart ripped and used than stomped in a million pieces
Don’t blame her for her feelings she past upon you and your lover
Blame lust for his devilish, sneaky, and dangerous game of sex
Hooked only in the beauty, the disgraceful greed of an “gold digger”
And the adrenaline of the rush of creeping for only to cheat and betray
So with that said it’s like yin and yang you’ll both Love and Lust
To bring balance in this world, the faithful ones and the cheaters that walks
This earth but one question I must ask my readers… which one would you choose?
The faithful love inside your soul or the lust exciting your life with danger…You decide!
Love awakens any age
Fifties thirties teen
Grows to strength with steady rage
Ripe emotions sown!
Lust awakens any time
Midnight noon or morn
Goes to sleep that ready time
Mad water flown!
In loving someone,
I cannot tell,
The thought of lust,
A continous bell,
Kissing and touching,
Is this really love?
Could we live without it?
Is it something we're above?
Do we need the touch of another,
The caress of his lips,
Those warm arms around us,
When the cold winter nips?
Could we deny pleasure,
Or is that all we are?
And if we went slower,
Would we really go far?
Would we hold on forever,
And never let go?
Or aren't you here forever?
These questions I must know.
For if you're here for love,
I'll love you till I die,
But if your here for only lust,
Im sorry, goodbye.
Each shall have a room, as they are distinct
As love is blind, lust has eyes wide open for its games
As love is day, lust is the night at the bar
As love speaks the truth, lust can just lay silent looking for the tasty froth
Love need not be beautiful but lust makes it a requisite
Love may abstain, but lust cannot
By its nature it thrives in banquets
Love is pure but lust goes to mud in all wild wrestling for what it desires
I can love you without lust
But you may not like it after all
I love and lust you
And in you
Love and lust shall
Hold hands, kiss tight, hiss all the night
Love and lust
The two becoming one
To both of us
So this union may last
This communion of souls.
Love is something devine
falls from the heaven to earth
It expects nothing for it  but
It renders everything to others including itself
Love never ends in lust but
it grows as affection and respect
Lust expects to exploit others
to satisfy it's needs
Matured love becomes grace
lust may not be so
Lust spoils the character and life
when it develops as aggressive
Love never feeds the violence but
Lust grows in violence and feeds violence
To my Younger generation!
have a love to smash the lust
Pave the way to peace  and
take this world to that end
Love you with a deep desire
Lust for you with my whole being
Long for you to hold me close
Longing and lust my lover.
Desire your arms about me
Deep within me I quiver
Don’t deny me your loving
Deep desire you just cant deny.
Touch me so gently
Taste my want so strong
Tremble my body now lover
Touch, taste and tremble
A love so secret, veiled and dark,
Hidden deep within my heart.
Yet I think I may be wrong
About my heart, my love, my song;
Is it naught but lustful yearning?
A base desire my heart is learning?
Is it love or is it lust?
To find the truth I think I must;
Search my black and tattered soul,
And make the truth my one true goal,
Until at last my colours show.
But, I guess, till then I'll never know.
She wont eat
And she can't sleep
Lonley nights
Horrid fights
Pain wahses over but scars don't heal
What you give me is what i feel
Come and hold what  you can't catch
Want to know who is best?
I will show you what to see
All you have to do is trust me
Three words of passion dont mean much
When all you want isnt love
Dont use me or bruise me
whats mine is mine
And im willing to let it shine
With what i have and what i need
It's ok when you have speed
A few times you won't rememeber
Tonight or tomorrow
Let go of your sorrow
LOVE OR LUST.?
i did everything i could
to take away ur frown
LOVE OR LUST.?
u got wat u wanted even
tho it brought me down
LOVE OR LUST.?
i stayed by ur side thought
good nd bad times
LOVE OR LUST.?
u left me for the next best
thing
LOVE OR LUST.?
i never took u for granted
no1 other then u was on my
mind
LOVE OR LUST.?
every other girl other then
me was on ur mind
LOVE OR LUST.?
to me the sex ment something
LOVE OR LUST.?
to u it was just sex or u wouldnt
of left me for another hoe
LOVE OR LUST.?
when i told u i loved u i
looked u in the eye nd ment it
LOVE OR LUST.?
when utold me u loved me it was
a joke juss ta get wat u wanted
LOVE OR LUST.?
Preoccupied with sexual notions
Centered on one major outlet
Including in a meaningless act
Lust
Expressing and enjoying various energies
Diversity, variety and spontaneity
Grounded ambitions an truthful pursuits
Love
All you think is thighs and elongation
Passion marks and intimate sparks
Warm wet spots and warm long darts
Lust
Thoughts of “the other” permeate your daily activities
Embraces feel better than sensual encounter
Togetherness, and admiring all of your mate
Love
These terms might lead in
Freaky
Nasty
Tasty and sneaky
If it’s not present from the line read above
Check the actions and intention if you really know the difference between Lust and Love
Well designed hearts
In the sands in deserts
Drawn by the fingertips
Of the so-called lovers
Crossed on the curves
To stay forever together
Supposedly on the hills
Indicating infatuated manners
Devotion kindlings set fires
In the souls in return
Naked flames of romance
Which swallows faithful lovers
Blessedly eternal
May be sometimes blaze or shimmer
Brightens the life
As it rise heart horizon in heavens
Breeze waltz with grains of the sand
And flames in summers
Flames are flared
Patterns are vanished in second
Do unveil that breeze
To find its real face which differs
Its elapsing time
As imposter of wind on the earth
Passing time substantiates
love claims if real
The drought kills the thirst
Harvest is a rarity
Dry winds dance in skin deep heat
Leaves abandon trees
Grounds crack in branches
I walk in pain
As needles climb up my feet
My lungs shiver of dryness
My heart pumps like a drum beat
Somewhere under the canopy
Of the velvet sky
A woman in tan
Waving to me
To join her party
Dig and cover
A gravely game
Insecurity permissible
Immaturity formidable
When you incline
Rose isn’t dead yet
But for you to grow them
In a killing field where
Love and lust
Collide
PS:  Love and lust come from the mind.Its all in the mind and from the mind.Heart is only to make love look so nice and beautiful.Heart only function as a generator to supply nutrients and oxygen to our bodies.If the heart stops, we die.Love and lust is a mind game.It will remain in the brain depend on how serious or critical the amount of love that we have recieved.
Remember it takes two to tango.Love can not fly with a single wing.
To say that love is breeze and lust, tempest
Or that love is spring and lust is summer
Is to say that love is best and lust, worst.
No, lust is just the intensified love.
24.06.2008
Straight from the gutters of hell!
She blows, sweeter than sugar
She burns,  flaming desires
Consuming all our emotions
Imitating the wings of love
Exciting and breath taking
Over flowing souls with her passion
Raging with infatuation
Hungry with an obsession
Not submitting to devotion
So powerful and strong
Luscious tasty desires
Never last a lifetime
But cause some a lifetime of pain
04 August 2009 Copyright © ® Eyan desir. All rights reserved
Gazing upon the turquoise-beaded necklace
Of a dark, mysterious Turkish girl,
A man slips into mystical ancient times
Of hidden codes and long forgotten gods,
Astrological-charted paths
Of love and destiny.
The hot sun tingles on warm skin,
Lust flows as naturally as sweat
And oozes from every pore
Breathing sensual rendezvous,
Physical encounters in barely furnished rooms,
Clothing is removed and tossed
Onto simple rugs,
Then the tasting of tongues.
Orgasmic adventures amid threats
From violently plotting parents
And a jealous suitor counting the days
To receive his intended prize
Who is expected to bleed on clean sheets
Of somebody’s defined customary purity.
But young girls all prefer rough renegades
Who joyously seize their love
That the lackluster and naive
Can never appreciate;
Girls can always return and lie
To any boy who blindly follows
The dictates of his parents.
Discontented heart and a restless soul,
unaware i was of my goals.
Alcohol, cocaine, hashish and grass
transformed me to a creature crass.
They pervaded the blood in my veins
squandered me to world obscure,
where enlightenment was feign.
There, euphoria didn't differ from pain.
A drizzle felt like deluge, a whisper like roar.
Where the breeze was a storm,
It was a world with no rules no norms.
When the monsters exited my veins,
my blood burned with fire,
bringing me down the spiral
melting me into an uninsurable mess.
The hallucinatory clouds quickly dissipated
bringing to me, numbness i hardly anticipated.
Such felt the lights glare, i hid from its flair,
surrendered myself to darkness and gloom.
Grappling with questions,
i gave in to the temptation.
They took me to a world so high
far from grievances and sighs.
Little did i know,
my ship struggling to dropp anchor
drifted me away from the shore of my life.
Being a recluse was no longer an excuse.
Empathy, loath, rebuke, resentment
in keeping me company, were all redundant.
From my eyes fell tears of blood,
for i was drowning in a flood.
Helpless one day, i found myself on bed.
My mother's palm gently stroking my forehead.
I was surrounded by moist eyes
all of them wearing an honest disguise,
making me feel i would still find my light,
that my future was shining bright.
Such intense was my lust for life, then.
Death was waiting to stake it's claim on my life, when.
Trecking in from the wind,
Is a beauty so joyful,
She begins to sing,
Also very playful,
My babe is under my wing.
We fly away when the time is necessary,
Rain or shine
We glide so high,
Feeling safe which is a necessity,
No one can deny or intefere which is why,
we float in extacy,
Bleeding through our veins,
Running deep in our blood,
Is more we could gain,
With a added bonus for a lust for love.
Enraptured by the mystic starry sky
Vincent so desperately wanted to try,
To paint this enchanting twilight scene,
But how, Colours in that light couldn’t be seen.
He longed to paint on the spot at night,
What he saw, as he saw without artificial light.
‘Night is more richly coloured than day
Putting little white dots on a black surface, no way'
Struck by brilliance of stars on closer attention
And his zest and lust and passion for perfection,
A legend goes in rural areas of south of France,
He put candles in the felt hat to capture and paint.
Thus the locals gave him a name, illumine
French word meaning lit up and delusive.
Couldn’t care less, night to be painted on the spot
Settled for a gas jet after pondering a lot
The painting depicts a religious motif of youth.
To assuage his thirst for the Absolute
‘I just paint nature as it seems to me, complete
All we have to do is unravel the mystery…’
A tribute to Vincent Van Gogh, Impressionist painter, best known for Sun Flowers.
Starry Night is a fascinating work, as is his passion.
He's just too 'touchy feely'
He gets too close to me
He gets a kiss from all the girls
From six to eighty three
But I don't think he likes me
He avoids all my advances
'Cos deep down it would be a thrill
To get a priest's romances
I'm really not that jealous
Though he never meets my gaze
Perhaps he's hoping my desire
Is just a passing phase
Perhaps I should leave well alone
As a Christian woman oughta
Instead I'll try to fix him up
With my unmarried daughter
Be she a metal, coal or oil,
No woman is immune to combustion of lust.
Intensity and duration of flame determine.
Woman is chaste by force.
Lust and fire are consumers.
16.10.2001, Pakd
As a lad I set my eyes upon girls
With radiant faces. For a kiss?
As a youth I cast my eyes on damsels,
Who had robust busts. For a grab?
In my manhood, I was excited
By women with sturdy waist. For a bind?
Growing old, still I was drawn to their
Smartness and maturity. For a rest?
Even in my senescence, women matter
By vision, voice and words. For a diffusion?
Birth to death, ever lust persists with the man
To feed on women on many phases.
23.07097
Ignition
She had risked the fire of her face
To return to her swarm days;
She had found all the treasures
Once prized and outlived in many ways;
Are those the wings to fly?
On the day of every low!
Are the petals still there?
To spread the wings to flow!
Firearm
She is regained in the exile day.
She has fired her lust away.
A big triumph hanging in front;
A vast field ready to repay;
He lusts for her
Her apple breasts
Beneath her vest
Taste the best
Lust, Lust, Lust
Three women on the go
Yet happiness does not flow
It is only
Lust, Lust, Lust
Her apple breasts
Beneath her vest
Taste the best
The natural flow of wetness
He hopes to taste once more
Maybe its vanilla flavor
Will be one better than before
Lust, Lust, Lust
Lost in focus
Lost in defense
Can’t do his job
Till he scores once more
Now humble, no longer hardcore
Only suffering from lust hangover
Her apple breast
Beneath her vest
Has just put him to the test
The sweet fluid of sex
Displaying something complex
Lust, Lust, Lust
Save him
He is an emotional wreck
For he still lusts after his Ex!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Tho' you crush the fang
Of an erratic, cunning cub,
Wandering in shadow
Trickling spittle for blood,
Without leniency in eyes,
He'll be disrobing a deer's spirit,
Again, by the lust of his hunger.
If it’s lust or love
nobody will ever know
and the night in front of the hot fireplace
I cannot forget easily
and still both are at times
part of what is in a relationship
between two people.
Strangely the lust eats me
were I stand almost naked
at the fireplace
and small john,
tries to stand just as upright
and big as big john.
There are flames from the fireplace
flashing in your eyes
when I take my underpants off
and your white face
is suddenly strangely pure,
while the inner fire
eats both of us
and the nipples of your big breasts
erect and prominent
almost magically draws my fingers.
Your mouth is hot,
soft and sweet
and your body
better to play with
that the strings of a guitar
and there are passion that abate in us
and when I disappear in your depths
there’s pleasure that at times
builds and subsides
and later we both
hit the right chord
Some say they believe in
love at first sight…
I scoff at those who see the
truth in this.
Love is an acquired thing,
you can't love someone you just
laid your eyes upon.
Lust, on the other hand is an
instantaneous thing,
an almost life threatening thing.
Lust causes babies and disease,
It is hard to tell the difference
Between the two…Love? Or lust?
That is something you will know when it happens,
Love doesn’t come easily, Lust does.
Lust is what I speak tonight,
Lust is what I see tonight,
Lust is what I feel tonight,
And I Lust You.
Show me your Body
inside out…
no clothes on,
no holds barred…
bit by bit,
part by part,
give me your smells,
and your sweat…
give me what all you have
every naked bit of yours,
I want to see All of yours.
feel my hands
feel my legs
feel my torso
my body begs…
Come on me
and make me wet
juices flowing…
feel the heat…
together, we’ll
make ‘us’ meet.
If Lust be sin,
So be it…
For I am a Woman,
And you a Man.
How can I love you
and not lust you?
For Me,
Love and Lust,
go hand in hand…
for I am a Woman
and you are my Man.
Lust, a burning, searing flame
that creeps through your veins.
Lighting you up with a hot,
fiery passion, it moves ever so quickly.
A feeling to love or hate,
It makes you feel so alive.
It is a sin, a lovely yet...
deadly sin, burning ever so fast.
Lust is love, lust is passion
Lust is many things...
Yet it is mainly just,
what it is, lust...
When on Vedas I concentrate,
Human passions come in spate;
From the Vedas take me away,
On my mind they hold sway.
Lust comes to me as a wild fire,
I am astounded with base desire(s):
Like a savage it lives at the root,
Am I a man or am I a brute?
****
But sapling of life from it sprout(s) ,
On its maturity love is the fruit;
Lust as seedling dissolves in dust,
Soon my love flowers in trust.
Its sweet fragrance removes disgust,
My whole world brightens up robust;
It is the basis of home and hearth,
In it lies all my mirth and worth.
***
Then it builds new castles of trust,
Thus I pass on from trust to trust;
Call it vicious or girdle girth,
Thus I wander birth to birth.
I want your body, I want your mind
I want you with me all the time,
I pull you close, I feel a shiver
this puddle of lust, is now a river,
your lips are parted and ready for me,
our lips come close and brush gently,
I look into your eyes...you tell me your ready,
I kiss down your neck, bieng very steady,
You tell me stop teasing......but your pleasure will grow
Our loves blossoming with every touch, She's screaming with pleasures that she needed so much.
Her body writhing from the gift that has been given.
She lie there enthrawled in ecstasy, she grips my arms and kisses me,
she whispers 'better than my fantasy'
I kiss her neck and hold her tight..
and whisper back 'id hoped I'd do it right'
lust is a passionate desire. When I lust I cant to be tamed you think SEX but I think LIFE.......nobody can stop you from lust more you lust life more you become he who is untamed not worrying about the opinion of others but only of your own. For you are your own worst enemy, and I am that enemy that will stop at no end to defeat my offenders.
Spadez
It's like a loud gale...
scorching hundred miles an hour
leaving bruises at the brim of mother-earth
it never stops be it twelve noon or midnight
but knows how to growl and wreck my high.
© Emu Getachew November 4,2009
A Flurry of texts hot talk and sex charged environments can have adverse effect causing defects in the heart and soul lasting till you grow old regrets beget sadness that's an easy way of slipping into madness but i digress from the point of this there is none not a single reason for this a sickness so seductive never wanting to miss a second of each sweet kiss a love drunk bliss until words fly like imaginary fist's and heart's are pummeled
What is it really?
Is it within you? ..is it
your lips wrapped
around it?
Is it in the head?
Is it in the moon?
Venus really is it?
Is it always fault of Mars..
Is it always to soon?
If it's touched..once
is it lust..ing..?
If it's touched over
and over like book
shelves is it dusting?
What if it's touched
just to hear it make
it's noise that wet noisy?
Can lust make it feint?
If streams damn a lake
runs to rivers in currents
ocean is flavor is it lust?
Is lust like dusting, out so
call the maid, ring for the
butler, man it is armed.
Over maid being dusted?
What is it, is it lust..?
Is it very sweet musk?
Is it lust to touch one smile
into another two smiles
just to cover all the smiles?
What is lust..is it need or is
it simply thick seed running,
into wells never filling, a truth?
Is lust yours simply unsealed,
mounted, covered and filled?
Lust destroyed my love
Lust pushed away my one
Lust made me weak
Lust took the one love
Lust killed my happiness
Lust is a sin I committed
Lust, I shouldn't had done
Lust got my suffocating
Lust made light turn into darkness
Lust made me miss my wife
Lust, my innocent girl is hurt
Lust I hurt myself too
Lust I miss my family I built
Lust, you were my biggest mistake....
I hear the words you say to me
I see the way you look at me
I know whats on your mind
At one time you were settled
down in mine
It's not the things you say to me
it's simply the way you look at me
Hard for me to look at you, into
the eyes of the one I could be
drawn to
We had the chance and
you stopped, you realized
what was true
That it was only an illusion,
a desire that we both share
something we both know
we can't allow to be true
Time has passed now and
it's starting again
But we can't let this happen
I've come to far now to sin
But your bold more confident now
you hang around like before
hoping to talk, to get me alone
the same way it started before
I can't let this happen but I don't
know if I could, addiction is only
lust it's about what feels good
So I'll back off because I don't
want to fail and the destruction
this would be, trust me I know a
thing or two about 'earthly hells'.
Don't Let Lust Get You
It Will Betray, The One You Love
The One You Love Won't Trust If You Let Lust Get You
Don't Let Lust Get You
It Will Trick You
It Will Leave You, The One You Love Won't
Don't Let Lust Get You
It Will Tell You That It Loves You. But Really Doesn't
It ill Hurt You Every Time
Don't Let Lust Get You
Because In The End Your The One That Feels Like Shit! ! !
A mere sight
of your body,
lits me up
like a gas stove.
So Red hot
I can feel fire,
blazing urge
getting crazy.
Such feeling
can't be gentle,
demanding
this lust not love.
The heavens may forget
that lovers sit on idle haunches
waiting for the stars to fall
for lust to make manifest.
The lovers may forget
that heaven, unlike earth,
gives not strength to fools
who would lust make manifest.
The fortunes of fools
my rest on her breast
the fate of nations
may lay in his hands
but lust, oh lust,
to it, who would entrust
the power to turn a man
from steel to dust.
Submitting to lust.
Passion and emotion combined to a rush.
A drug without a form.
The expression is revealing.
You are addicted and you want more.
You find a victim.
You release it.
But it’s still not gone.
It’s still there roaming around.
A disease without a sound.
A curse with a touch of heaven.
A gift who gives you pleasure.
A fulfilment with no border.
A need that is growing older.
This is a bliss from god or a burden from the devil’s dust.
This is what is given.
A dangerous word called lust.
To feel your hands once again
To feel your warm breathe on my neck
To feel your lips on mine
To see in your eyes the longing for me
I tell myself this is the last time
For you have a commitment and so do I
In your arms each time I die
Can there be love in our lust
I will not do this again
But around you, myself I cannot trust
We know this cannot be
So stop this now before they see
But then you run your fingers through my hair
And caress my face
This is to much for me to bear
This flame we make is just to bright
It will consume us
If  we don’t stop this very night
Knowing what we have will not last
For they hold our hearts
Our future and our past
So  we kiss once more knowing this has come to its end
We can no longer be lovers
Not even friends
My body yearns for you, craving your hungry touch.
Igniting a fire within me I never wanted you so much.
My passion continues to bulid, You take me to the very top
Lost in sheer ecstacy, I never want you to stop.
Waves and waves of pleasure coarse through my  hungry veins
Escalating me even higher, the animal so hard to tame.
You play my body like an instument, a genius at your craft
Strumming with delicate ease, every note right on it's path.
Climbing even higher, we finally reach the peak.
Hanging  on with all my might, I can harldy speak.
My body starts to tremble and shake with pure delight.
Traveling to pleasure land, what a way to spend the night
Today i realised
lust is not lust
i must not be fussed with lust
because i have a big bust
Lust isnt what it seems
a hierarchy of beems
what does it deem to be?
not what it seems
I had lust at my breast
through that meaty chest
i did my best
but lust took my breast
under the breast lies thy heart
lust has to wonder along that part
it broke my heart
i siezed the day
sail with me
on my boat to the sea
your breasts my paddles
my pelvis your floor
sail with me
in the ocean of desire
lust with me
on this little leak of my
boat to the sea
sink with me
to the deepest thoughts
of the sea
learn with me
the meaning of love
the true meaning of true love
death of desire
rising at the end
to the greater joys of foam
at the surface
the sun, the moon and then the stars
...and then i hold
on to my body part
all my senses
wakes up
active on one
objective
to please my mind
my body
another mountain to climb
i descend
i ascend to the sun
and then
i rain.
With-in my mind
I make the scenario,
this dance of devious temptation.
thus, I then lust for you.
with precision I make you
do my minds bidding.
I crave it,
thus, I lust for you.
Placating with steps
I tip-toe your body
through my mind,
and its progressions
make me Lust for you
I make you twist to my plans.
I make you mold to me.
This dance of devious temptation,
thus, I lust for you.
In closing I plead with you
to let me act,
to let yourself sin with me.
Thus, my lust comes real.
The lust wounds
the flesh kills
deceit of temptation appeals
what shield hides
if weakness reveals?
My lust for you is like a fire
All it does is burn
It burns everything in sight
My lust for you is intense
All I do is think about you
The way you smell
The way you look
All I do is think about you
That's my lust for you.
Orange slice
inside
my mouth
zesty juicy
and
squirting sweetness
from inside out
feeding me more
succulent dreams
streaming out
from luscious
imaginations
hidden behind
invisible lovers
teasing
my heart
till invading
sparkles sit
on the tip
of my tongue
with ripe
bright oranges
I slowly lap up
for more
of the same
reviving delicious
self pleasing
enjoyment on eating
a fruit as deep
as the ocean of lust
Peeping at porno
downloaded three years ago
and not seen since
a horse and a woman
of course
so big
mine not even close
but besides that
what?
in his beating heart
what?
the unbearable delight
the same
trembling flesh entering Paradise
and agony later, if corruption seeps in.
Ah!
that magnificent stallion
manifesting the universal maneuver
all beings were born into
but I tell you
from the bottom of my heart
I want only
the serene camaraderie of distant stars
and their unimaginable burning
in eternal fire
until the final act of creation
collapses into a black hole
sucking both memory and revelation
into absolute gravity
and now the naked woman
flashes her Technicolor breasts
the horse high and ready for the next scene
don’t want to see it
not anymore
the Buddha sad
I ever sought such desire
or any desire.
Far far away
Deep in space
To a sexy galaxy you will go
Power Rangers go
Power Rangers go
Power Rangers go
There lies a key to an anal affair and the condoms you must use
Ohhhhhh rangers!
Turn us on
Power Rangers Lust Galaxy
Turn us on
Power Rangers Lust Galaxy
Turn us on
Power Rangers Lust Galaxy
Oh Power Rangers.....
Lust (Lust)  Galaxy
In my mind i capture and seduce you with the inevitable blashphemy dreams of sex
Lust at our sight dominating our control of the prudent mind,
it's so clear of what this can lead to next
your eyes gazing at me
lost at the sight of my plush red lips
overcomining ethic mentality
And you kiss me, a kiss of greed,
of wanting to endure the feeling of wanting more,
grasping the lust out of me
oh, you kiss me
your kisses like streams flowing to my neck
then to the anatomy of my breast
oh, your kisses like winter snow in mid december
descending with the rythum of my heart
and am unable to breathe my pulse unable to rest
you want me but not completly
just the love of my physical body
the nudity, the fire that burns between my legs
the lurid world hidden in my runic thoughts
so your monster can run wild with lust
then you'll leave, pretending this ever happened
this sight, this sacred dream
now of lucid exsistance with a secret scilence of a meer memory
of my breathing left unbroken.
Bizarre déité, brune comme les nuits,
Au parfum mélangé de musc et de havane,
Oeuvre de quelque obi, le Faust de la savane,
Sorcière au flanc d'ébène, enfant des noirs minuits,
Je préfère au constance, à l'opium, au nuits,
L'élixir de ta bouche où l'amour se pavane;
Quand vers toi mes désirs partent en caravane,
Tes yeux sont la citerne où boivent mes ennuis.
Par ces deux grands yeux noirs, soupiraux de ton âme,
Ô démon sans pitié! verse-moi moins de flamme;
Je ne suis pas le Styx pour t'embrasser neuf fois,
Hélas! et je ne puis, Mégère libertine,
Pour briser ton courage et te mettre aux abois,
Dans l'enfer de ton lit devenir Proserpine!
Unslakeable Lust
Singular deity, brown as the nights,
Scented with the perfume of Havana and musk,
Work of some obeah, Faust of the savanna,
Witch with ebony flanks, child of the black midnight,
I prefer to constance, to opium, to nuits,
The nectar of your mouth upon which love parades;
When toward you my desires set out in caravan,
Your eyes are the cistern that gives drink to my cares.
Through those two great black eyes, the outlets of your soul,
O pitiless demon! pour upon me less flame;
I'm not the River Styx to embrace you nine times,
Alas! and I cannot, licentious Megaera,
To break your spirit and bring you to bay
In the hell of your bed turn into Proserpine!
— Translated by William Aggeler
Sed non Satiata
Strange goddess, brown as evening to the sight,
Whose scent is half of musk, half of havanah,
Work of some obi, Faust of the Savanah,
Ebony witch, and daughter of the night.
By far preferred to troth, or drugs, or sleep,
Love vaunts the red elixir of your mouth.
My caravan of longings seeks in drouth
Your eyes, the wells at which my cares drink deep.
Through those black eyes, by which your soul respires,
Pitiless demon! pour less scorching fires.
I am no Styx nine times with flame to wed.
Nor can I turn myself to Proserpine
To break your spell, Megera libertine!
Within the dark inferno of your bed.
— Translated by Roy Campbell
Sed Non Satiata
Dusky as tropic nights, O bizarre deity,
Redolent of havana, musk and cordovan,
What obeah man or Faust of the Caribbean,
Wrought you, child-witch of night, with flanks of ebony?
Better than opium or Constanta. Wine or Nuits,
Your nectar mouth where Love swoons in a slow pavane,
When my desires set forth, a serried caravan,
Your eyes are the twin wells where I can slake ennui.
From out these wide black eyes which are your spirit's vent,
Heap fires less fierce upon me. O impenitent,
I am no tireless Styx to gird you nine times nine,
I am no lustful Fury to exhaust your lust,
To break your vigor or to make you bite the dust
Or in your bed's hell turn into a Proserpine.
— Translated by Jacques LeClercq
Sed Non Satiata
Strange deity, brown as nights,
Whose perfume is mixed with musk and Havanah,
Magical creation, Faust of the savanna,
Sorceress with the ebony thighs, child of black midnights,
I prefer to African wines, to opium, to burgundy,
The elixir of your mouth where love parades itself;
When my desires leave in caravan for you,
Your eyes are the reservoir where my cares drink.
From those two great black eyes, chimneys of our spirit,
O pitiless demon, throw out less flame at me;
I am no Styx to clasp you nine times,
Nor can I, alas, dissolute shrew,
To break your courage, bring you to bay,
Become any Proserpine in the hell of your bed!
— Translated by Geoffrey Wagner
SENUALITY AND LUST
esspeecee …09.06.09
Extramarital affair
Tipsy; I fall-in
Often and
Effortlessly, compulsively.
It’s not lust
To gratify
But douse, drench
In beguiling Sensuality.
A tankard-full
Golden sun ray
Orangish archisap
Sip the sparkle
n’sip
Inebriate become
O Orangish Sensuality.
Smear Sensuality
A fragranced jelly
An intimate togetherness
With fiancée
Sing:
Hulla huh u laa hulla.
Take orangey transfusion
Of Sensuality
All cells are bathed
Melts down lust
Tranquility imbues me.
Lust gyrates, explodes
Repressed gratification surfaces,
Make me
Civilized libidinist.
Sexitation slumber
Under blanket of
Serene Sensuality
Like doped sloth.
I sip the tankard
Frothy, bubbly
Lips in commune with
Softy smoothie Sensuality.
Lust forgive me
Fear your
Grotesque laughter
Boozer of soma.
Lust is concocted
Groomed, vamped
Nudity
Product of civilization.
Sensuality is
Effortless, born-nascent, innate
Nudity
Pre-civilization gleam galore.
O Sensuality
My placid play pal
Stay even short
With me
Endlessly I relish
It’s ‘After-Taste’.
Orangey golden Sensuality
Drink you compulsively
I’m, for ever new
Extramarital affair
Die hard I’m of.
Copyright reserved by the Author
The world knows it and yet falls in this swamp,
Though knowing well one can’t come out alive;
Lust works its charms and you feel you are champ,
But stings to death like swarm of bees from hive.
Lust comes to man like dreams enjoyable too,
But leaves a tired frame and heart of guilt;
Until you fall a victim, lust holds you,
And there-after, the vice will stay in-built.
Lust blinds the eye that used to see true love,
And leaves a man both sick in mind and heart;
If not steady, it can any heart move,
And keeps the soul sinful, till you depart.
No God of love can in a soul such dwell,
Lust grows like cancer, taking soul to Hell.
6-27-2001
The feel of your teeth
On my ear lobe,
Your nails
Raking a trail of red
On my back.
The slippery tango
Of our tongues.
Our nips and nibbles
All over,
Leaving no spot
A virgin
My hungry mouth
Ravishing,
The source
Of your elixir.
The not so gentle
Assault
Of your tongue
On my pride,
Pushing me to the edge…
As you pull me
Into you
Like a predator
Your eyes
Dilate
Like a victim’s.
Hard,
Soft;
Holding back,
Letting go;
Pleasure,
Pain;
Satiation,
Hunger….
The paradox
Of lust –
An eternal enigma.
Are you blind or eyes were gone
In lust or many more
To grab the dust of grass
Filling your never ending desire
Craving for nothing that you deserve
And why I am suppose to die
Upon you unholy feet
Love is dead
On the day this face was smudged with your lies
Calling no name and I know one
Dear heart was broken and I must get you forsaken
Until the end of time!
i have seen the fullness of the glory of
the front
i am awed
my mouth gaped
my saliva flowed
the heart has no words to say
there is marvel in every
nerve
barbaric in some places
setting aside wisdom
embracing
the moment
loving each minute
lusting that may last
for hours
thirst that never satisfies itself with
water
the hunger that cannot be filled
with the wheatness of
bread
i ask you to make the the turn
so i can see the past
the fullness of your back
the smoothness of that hidden skin
the curves that have given me the sense
of danger
but all these, beauty and desire
must prevail
there is glory everywhere
there are songs in every corner
a poem found in every slit
there are treasures shown by the maps of
every wanting
always insatiable
always unbearable.
With padded feet from out his own dark den
Comes smiling Lust, once fair and hard to
please,
But now long overworked with dabbling men,
Who cry, 'We've tasted this and tired of these.'
Pausing in doubt, suspecting some defence,
He stares with eyes blue-lidded, at the Shape,
Then stooping, whispers low of innocence,
Of waiting chastity and sweetest rape.
With hairless hands awave, lisps reeking tales
'Mid smothered sighs, acquivering the while
he sees a horrored frown and fears he fails,
But smiling much whene'er he sees a smile.
Then pressing, 'Flesh is this, they needed food,'
And, 'Flesh is warmest in its stolen blood.'
The last with lust...
between your arms...
here i am...
as a great panel...
drew by a great artist...
in front of your eyes...
here i am...
as boat without drone...
has no leader to ride...
lay away your imaginations...
threw your paintbrush away...
here i am your panel which you seeks for...
waiting your touches...
waiting your colors...
needing you as paintbrush...
to draw me through your fires..
and to fire each others..
let me lie down peacefully into your lap...
pillow my head on your chest...
to throw all worries back...
with a happiness taking a nap while you hugging me...
get me more close to you...
let me lose myself through your hot breathes...
and your exciting whispers...
to give me all colors of love...
here i am your panel...
give me your hot colors...
give me, my happiness through your great appetite...
draw me with your lips...
with your hot naked body fire me...
with no stop..
with no mercy...
to the last with lust...
by: hazem02@yahoo.com
Wake me up from this dream,
Nothings ever as it seems.
This secret gift we do not share, leaves me wondering if you'll always be there.
You bring me up when I am down.
You make me smile when you see a frown.
Being with you is our own perfect world.
A great escape from our reality that leaves us bored.
I am yours as you are mine.
A special love thats so devine.
Through the years there will be tears.
Lots of laughter and conquering of fears.
I give you my body my mind and my soul,
your love completes me, it makes me whole.
You are so perfect in every single way.
I can't live without you not even a day.
Lust means luxuria, lechery, lasciviousness and sensuality.
Lust means intensive desire for sexual pleasure,
A taboo of the sixth commandments.
Lust is nothing but power, most aphrodisiacal.
Lust is carrying women in thought.
Lust is substituting prostitutes.
Lust is marrying and sustaining a family,
Putting up with children crying,
Overdoing themselves in explanation of lapses,
Looking at women they like to move around,
Buying expensive clothes for themselves,
Gifting valuables to women they have crush on,
Paying attention to woman other than their wives
To make up what was missing
Without knowing what it is.
In a nut shell, lust is in every action.
16.04.2007
The lust for power and money to corruption lead
And some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed
And big Corporations do not have a soul
The avarice that afflicts them their thinking control.
The distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair
And thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire
Oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day
Whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay.
To be born of poor parents is their only crime
And they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime
In refugee camps they are forced to reside
In a Land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed.
'Tis true power can be a corruptible thing
Of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing
Why laud people who have far more than enough
When millions are homeless and have to sleep rough.
The lust for power seems to be thriving of late
And only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate
Whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair
In a World where empathy and compassion are rare.
The lust for power is an addiction the Government their own praises do sing
And rubbish their main opposition as to Government they try to cling
The voters bombarded with propaganda right up until election day
The true fact of all politicians is they seldom do mean what they say
The winners take all of the glory and the winners they do celebrate
The prize it is great and worth lying for that's how they feel those who wish to rule the State
The lust for power is an addiction and not a harmless addiction 'twould seem
Without such power some people feel worthless and suffer of low self esteem
Some people become so power hungry that power to their egos is fuel
They feel it is their right to Govern that they have been born to rule
The Opposition as bad as the Government they too want power in the worst way
Any respect to their political opponents they have no desire for to pay
It is all about power and their egos power to them is the best thing of all
Their pride to them is all that matter though pride it can come before a fall.
The lust for power consumes men
Blinds the mind and pollutes reason
Diverts good purposes and then
Corrupts the character's condition.
The lust for power is seductive
Erodes the noble and benign
Ignores all truth, it's so destructive
Insatiable hunger is there assigned.
A dragon of three heads set free
Devours all who would come near
Lust for power grows greedily
Claws in position, breeding fear.
It lacks all sense of  decency
And by callous ardor will try to hold
The power it gained deceitfully
Ignoring Justice and Truth foretold.
Copyright Cynthia Buhain
April 14,2010
I care not for my Lady’s soul
Though I worship before her smile;
I care not where be my Lady’s goal
When her beauty shall lose its wile.
Low sit I down at my Lady’s feet
Gazing through her wild eyes
Smiling to think how my love will fleet
When their starlike beauty dies.
I care not if my Lady pray
To our Father which is in Heaven
But for joy my heart’s quick pulses play
For to me her love is given.
Then who shall close my Lady’s eyes
And who shall fold her hands?
Will any hearken if she cries
Up to the unknown lands?
Sweetheart...
come...
we are alone now...
finally we are...
come and close the door...
i have many things to tell...
and have many desires for you...
come let me undress you all...
and hold you between my arms...
to hug you to my chest so strong...
and to start kissing you...
kissing you with my thirsty lips...
which missed you sooo...
to start from your neck and then down...
down till i reach the holy place where you care about...
to give you a happiness which you missed from a long time...
and to start the great love...
the love which we created for...
come, , my room calling you...
my warm bed missing you soo...
please give me the gift which god gave you...
so come to me sweetheart...
to let your body heal...
open up every thing you have...
breathe the good you feel...
breathe in joy and feel the warm from me...
to get from each one the lust...
the lust which we need to...
My heart beats faster as I almost expect you to be there,
As I look for you for, for  your eyes, for your lips, for your touch.
My skin yearns for you, for your fingers to linger across my chest.
My lips need your soft tender kiss. I can't keep doing this I can't stop doing this, I need this, I need you. I.. need.. you. This thing, this yearning, this lust, I need.
The lust we fought for in now just a pile of ash.
The lust we fought for was a lie to it's very last.
The lust we fought for burns in my memory every night.
The kust we fought for wasn't worth it's own right.
The lust we fought for seemed so out of control.
The lust we fought for only needed us to grab ahold.
So the lust we fought for wasn't lust at all.
Indeed it was love that made our great fall.
The lust we fought for keeps me crying at night.
The lust we fought for has me praying to turn it right.
The lust we fought for makes me miss you more.
The lust we fought for broke my heart to it's core.
The lust we fought for brings out a million tears.
The lust we fought for challenged all of my fears.
So the lust we fought for was the pain i deserved to face.
Indeed it was love from that magically beautiful place.
The lust we fought for is now gone up in flames...
Because I now know that the lust we fought for was real all the same.
I thought you were history when,
I heard the slam at the door!
But like the tale of two obsessions in love,
We are like the musical chairs on this love.
My son is for the sun and your mum is for the moon,
But i thought you were history when i heard the slam at the door!
And if only tears were laughter,
Then, i will be able to take you along to paradise.
I am dumped without a clue to use the glue,
But the Spirit of Satan is like the spirit of lust;
And if only the nights were days,
Then, i would be able to see your face better.
You came and took my heart away!
But if only distances were closer,
Then, i could have crossed over to meet you;
However, the Spirit of Satan is like the spirit of lust.
What is the night's remorse if not the regret of your lips gone from mine?
Is it the moon mocking the sun in its endless game of chase?
Where, for but a moment, they are lovers joined then just as quickly receded.
Is it that you are to be the water to end this endless thirst for love?
Or am I to be the drug that torments you until you wake sweaty and full of need?
Would I that my dreams ceased to be haunted by your sultry eyes and wicked lips.
Would I more that those same eyes and lips tantalize me while I wake.
Could it be the tenor of your voice that soothes me  when I ache?
Or is it that my softness drives your soul to return nightly to mine?
What is your remorse if not the regret of leaving me satiated, yet not?
I reply that is the sweet sadness of loving what you can never have.
These days everybody uses word love to express his or her feeling
But the problem is majority of them don’t know the real love meaning
What real love has to do with the lust?
If you get confused between love and lust, you are going to pay the price, whatever the cost
Remember, one of the most important part of your life is your feeling
So, when it comes to the real love, you better watch out with whom you are dealing
Real love requires sacrifices, respect, caring, forgiveness and trust
If you attracted to someone solely for your looks, that’s not the love, that’s a pure lust
This poem has a message especially for young people and teenage
Because lust, not the real love is the most popular one at this age
You can easily involve in a bad relationship
If every time someone claims, that loves you and you give away your heart so easy and so cheap
unfortunately, the teenage girls are the most victims of the lust
So, you better get your college degree first, then you mature enough to know, when it comes to real love, who you should trust
the days when liking someone was so simple and meaningless
like someone for no reason, or purpose
you like the way the looked
you liked the way the acted
they were nice to you one, or twice
you know its going no where
but you like them anyways
for no good reason
you see them once or twice a day
you see them in school
you keep it a secret, only your best friend knows
people ask you all the time 'who do you like'
and you only reply 'nobody! ! '
any you get frustrated, and embarrassed
and when your pathetic secret is revealed
you cry in the halls in embarrassment
and run away
young lust
such a pathetic excuse for love...
Meera reached the proper age,
That proposed her marriage.
Her mother was worried,
It was time, she be married.
But Meera was unconcerned,
Since she herself had married
Krishna, her dream husband.
So, she wasn’t at all worried.
They sent messengers
To other Rajput kings
With their royal message,
Proposing Meera’s marriage.
None came forward
To take her hand,
But the King of Mewar
Was willing to marry her.
Kumbha Rana was his name.
To marry her, he came.
Meera was quite upset,
And first didn’t accept.
“I can’t break our tradition
By accepting another one,
Already when I’m married
To Krishna, my husband.”
Her mother cried and said,
“My life I would have laid
With your father in the pyre,
You know, why I’m here.”
“Because of you I’m alive.
If today your father is alive,
He would’ve had it done
To our utmost satisfaction.”
“What’s not possible now,
After it you run how?
Of what’s possible,
Why can’t you now avail? ”
”Our Rajput tradition says
A grown up girl, who marries
Should serve her husband,
And die with her husband.”
Meera gave deaf ears.
She cried and shed tears.
They came to the conclusion
That Meera had gone sick then.
Doctors came to check
But they went back
Without giving any treatment,
Not knowing her ailment.
Meera’s eyes became red
As she cried and cried.
Her mother was upset
O’er her pitiable sight.
Till the last moment
Poor Meera did expect
Krishna would save her
But He disappointed her.
Here and there people walked.
About the marriage they talked.
Kumbha Rana arrived in the scene.
It was her marriage day one.
As a bride, Meera was decorated.
In Rajput style, she was dressed.
But Meera was in tears.
Her face showed fears.
Her mother said, “Meera, listen
It’s our prestige, not a fun,
Our two kingdoms, it’ll strengthen.
Rajput clan will glow and shine.”
“A mother is the first Goddess.
Next only your Krishna comes.
I’m your mother saying this.
Be bold, happy and wise.”
Meera replied, “Yes, mother
Now I obey your order
As your way is Krishna’s way.
Your word is His word this day.”
She spoke no more words.
She stepped on the dais
To hold the second hand
And accept her new husband.
Flute music is coming when I am writing this poem;
The sweet music is being rendered by a flute vendor!
Flute music reminds all of the hero of Bhagavad-Gita
Who proposed the policy of nonattachment in life!
Marriages are fixed in heaven many say since long time
But why are some going for divorces after the marriage?
Love or arranged marriages should be based on love;
But too much attachment finding faults ends in divorces!
Nothing is perfect in the world let alone love and marriage;
What is more important is love to be cherished as humans
So that relations would last longer making happier life here;
Critically seeing differences one cannot find peace of mind.
Bond of marriages is supposed to last till the end of life
But not to suffer by marriages till the end of life in the world!
Courtship, without marriage...
How romantic, indeed.
Marriage, without courtship...
You're going to bleed...
The clock is ticking
On a bomb that's armed.
Here is a river with a little boat
moored beside its bank. The boat's the colour
of oranges in the south of Greece, all bloody
and ripe with sweetness, while the bank's the colour
of meadows in the north of France, deep green
with a heifer's downy mane, a country rose.
Love, I shall never take you to those places.
I've squandered all my gold upon the water,
which for you mirrors the eternal sun.
A good marriage is made of equal respect
And the ability to communicate
You have to be able to talk to each other
You have to be able to relate
You have to show each other every day
How much in love you are
It takes two people to make it work
Together, not from afar
Some say you don't have to work on a marriage
Marriages work out on their own
Those are the people who live in denial
And usually end up alone
And don't forget we all have our faults
stay strong and feed off each others strength
Worry about being happy in your marriage
And less about it's length
All I can tell you is what works for us
And it's been working for over 30 years
We've shared love, respect and a wonderful friendship
And we have even shared a few tears
I wouldn't trade marriage for all the money in the world
I would never trade the man that I love
We are an example of what real soul mates are
And our marriage was blessed from God above
I LOVE YOU CHUCK
by Dianna Nally
8/31/08
The croak of a raven hoar!
A dog's howl, kennel-tied!
Loud shuts the carriage-door:
The two are away on their ghastly ride
To Death's salt shore!
Where are the love and the grace?
The bridegroom is thirsty and cold!
The bride's skull sharpens her face!
But the coachman is driving, jubilant, bold,
The devil's pace.
The horses shivered and shook
Waiting gaunt and haggard
With sorry and evil look;
But swift as a drunken wind they staggered
'Longst Lethe brook.
Long since, they ran no more;
Heavily pulling they died
On the sand of the hopeless shore
Where never swelled or sank a tide,
And the salt burns sore.
Flat their skeletons lie,
White shadows on shining sand;
The crusted reins go high
To the crumbling coachman's bony hand
On his knees awry.
Side by side, jarring no more,
Day and night side by side,
Each by a doorless door,
Motionless sit the bridegroom and bride
On the Dead-Sea-shore.
When God brings together,
Two people in a marriage,
He encourages,
Many things along the way.
To never be afraid,
Of the steps,
That are directed by Him.
Fellowship daily,
Be in a hurry for nothing,
And always open to learning,
One another,
Have much prayer,
Lots of patience,
For this is necessary,
To have a marriage of greatness.
Know the time for fruitfulness,
As well as gentleness,
And always be prepared,
For a lesson in forgiveness.
Keep in mind one another's feelings.
Be willing to give all that,
You can possibly give,
Doing all this,
Will help with faithfulness.
Especially when you realize,
The best part of a great union,
Is having your life long,
Friend for all eternity.
These are some of the keys,
For a marriage made in Heaven.
A marriage of two is for love that is true
A marriage of two is always something new
A marriage of two happens sometimes out of the blue
A marriage of two is worth it when it’s due
A marriage of two is a marriage of trust
They are only very few who have a clue of when love accrues
A marriage of two is about love making
It is not about money raking
You should only be glad if
A marriage of two is for love that is true
A marriage of two is for love that is true
A marriage of two is always something new
A marriage of two happens sometimes out of the blue
A marriage of two is worth it when it’s due
A marriage of two is a marriage of trust
They are only very few who have a clue of when love accrues
A marriage of two is about love making
It is not about money raking
You should only be glad if
A marriage of two is for love that is true
A marriage of two
is for love that is true
A marriage of two
is always something new
A marriage of two
happens sometimes out of the blue
A marriage of two
is worth it when its due
A marriage of two
is a marriage of trust
Many can find themselves lost
It can be an expensive cost
They are only very few
who have a clue
of when love accrues
A marriage of two
is about love making
It is not about
money raking
A marriage of two
can be bad
A marriage of two
can be sad
You should only be glad if
A marriage of two
is for love that is true
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
When I stare at a pen and
a blank piece of paper, I
feel compelled to write and
release my child that is
born of thought.
© Joe Fazio
In some force of nature
He reaches for her
Time and time again.
And time after time
She soothes his fevered brow,
Calms and strokes the fury in him.
A marriage of sea and shore
Embracing only one another;
And yearning for nothing more
They thrash and crash about.
The going has always been rough but
They cling to their life in one another;
Knowing separately each would die there.
But together, their dance continues
Painting a mesmorizing beauty;
Timeless and enduring
Through sunshine as well as storm.
The first retainer
he gave to her
was a golden
wedding ring.
The second--late at night
we woke up,
leaned over on an elbow,
and kissed her.
The third and the last--
he died with
and gave up loving
and lived with her.
THE ring, so worn as you behold,
So thin, so pale, is yet of gold:
The passion such it was to prove--
Worn with life's care, love yet was love.
THERE was a marriage-table where One sate,
Haply, unnoticed, till they craved His aid:
Thenceforward does it seem that He has made
All virtuous marriage-tables consecrate:
And so, at this, where without pomp or state
We sit, and only say, or mute, are fain
To wish the simple words 'God bless these twain!'
I think that He who 'in the midst' doth wait
Oft-times, would not abjure our prayerful cheer,
But, as at Cana, list with gracious ear
To us, beseeching, that the Love divine
May ever at their household table sit,
Make all His servants who encompass it,
And change life's bitterest waters into wine.
You have no seasons;
you are an undifferentiated
whole with no seams:
Guarded or Integrated?
I can't decide.
You whole life seems
well, so together.
And you love me.
I think you really do.
You are my Eternal Summer
well-off, a famous family
and persistent
in your interest in me.
There will be no seasonal
changes with you
and you and your mother
have already been shopping
for the children's wardrobes.
I have another suitor too.
He is Winter, chaste and unsure
of everything
except me.
He loves me too.
He is all future-
the dreamer.
He sweeps me up
in his beingness
for hours on end.
I adore him;
he brings things in me alive.
So what is it to be.
Endless Summer
or uncertain Winter?
I am stick here in
my Autumn
wondering
what I can do to get to
Spring.
Call it a good marriage -
For no one ever questioned
Her warmth, his masculinity,
Their interlocking views;
Except one stray graphologist
Who frowned in speculation
At her h's and her s's,
His p's and w's.
Though few would still subscribe
To the monogamic axiom
That strife below the hip-bones
Need not estrange the heart,
Call it a good marriage:
More drew those two together,
Despite a lack of children,
Than pulled them apart.
Call it a good marriage:
They never fought in public,
They acted circumspectly
And faced the world with pride;
Thus the hazards of their love-bed
Were none of our damned business -
Till as jurymen we sat on
Two deaths by suicide.
A bough bent young
To fetch an ideal dream
Swinging in its bow…..
A wooden plank
Roped and rigged
Sparrow’s chirp
Fill the air
Vacant the swing no more………
Child in marriage
In pockets of society
Swings the swing…..
With offspring’s
Sweet and many
Myna’s chirp solitary
Duty done well?
Vacant the swing no more………
Bleak, dark clouds
Waters of vapour random gather
That sustain the heat could not!
Flew up droplets, up in the air so blue
To cloudy dreamy clouds
To tease till tears trickle
Rains! Down pour!
Swing;
Vacated in haste in down pour!
Children in this bonding
Sweet innocence
Pressured till
Stolen dreams were pacified
Bend at will
As soft clay still
Half the days in toils glare
Shaped to ends
Duty doubtfully lingers….
Swing;
Vacated in timeless life’s outpour
We are sinners
Saved by grace
Patient the lord
Watching us with no haste!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~malinikadir
Oft an adults with childish mentality do marriage
With an aim to travel in life’s joyful carriage.
On fate’s tortuous road of uncertainty
With an aim to sing life’s joyous ditty
The coach drawn by colts of happiness cum sorrow.
Rushes on a road winding up to morrow
Then a wanton fantasy running amok
Mates with a desire running wild
And in due course produces a sacrificial child.
Then, adult children with unfulfilled goals,
Imprison poor newborns in their ambition’s gaol.
They prod tiny tots with a goad of desires
Till their limbs gets tired and hearts emits fire.
The fools trying to fulfill goals in a vicarious way
Unknowingly extinguish the newborn rays.
The child born in an accident
Complains in a front of providence:
In muffled prayers or screams
To rescue his brutally raped dreams.
Thus their desire abuses new born child
Who is yet to shed innocence’s guild.
Eventually the carriage falls in
a dolorous dell,
And the progenies that
begets in the hell,
fight like Cain and Abel.
Dr Hitesh C Sheth
02/06/2009
WHAT need of clamorous bells, or ribands gay,
These humble nuptials to proclaim or grace?
Angels of love, look down upon the place;
Shed on the chosen vale a sun-bright day!
Yet no proud gladness would the Bride display
Even for such promise:--serious is her face,
Modest her mien; and she, whose thoughts keep pace
With gentleness, in that becoming way
Will thank you. Faultless does the Maid appear;
No disproportion in her soul, no strife:
But, when the closer view of wedded life
Hath shown that nothing human can be clear
From frailty, for that insight may the Wife
To her indulgent Lord become more dear.
I’ve given it my best.
The years frown back
from the mirror
to show me just how long,
until at last
I have to concede finality.
It’s over,
and I was the last
to know.
In spite of the realization,
it still hurts.
I’m told feelings are
hardest to let go of,
I suppose because
we’ve worn them
for so long.
Yet everyone knows
nothing is all bad.
The good was good,
but when the bad stretches
arrive more often,
stay longer
and hurt twice as much,
I finally see
the only time I’m happy
is when I’m alone.
The bad overshadows
anything good
and I see things
for what they really are.
Today, I stood in the yard
with my arms outstretched.
I had to see if he began
where my fingers ended,
- the way he used to,
but there was nothing there,
only air.
Then I checked my arms.
There must be needle tracks …
hell, he was like
an addiction,
but there were none.
When did the wrongs become
a way of life?
Apologies can no longer reboot trust
and there’s no going back.
In sad resignation
I’ve discovered I’m out of
last chances to give.
Feelings truly are
the hardest to let go of
and it really is
because we have a past,
and I ache knowing
there can be no future.
Nonetheless, I hate losing.
I loathe having failed at something
I’ve poured so much of me into
for so long …
but you just know,
and there in the
midst of the knowing
lies the death of a marriage.
'Twas summer, when softly the breezes were blowing,
And Hudson majestic so sweetly was flowing,
The groves rang with music & accents of pleasure
And nature in rapture beat time to the measure,
When Helen and Jonas, so true and so loving,
Along the green lawn were seen arm in arm moving,
Sweet daffodils, violets and roses spontaneous
Wherever they wandered sprang up instantaneous.
The ascent the lovers at length were seen climbing
Whose summit is grac'd by the temple of Hymen:
The genius presiding no sooner perceived them
But, spreading his pinions, he flew to receive them;
With kindest of greetings pronounced them well come
While hollidays clangor rang loud to the welkin.
(In the Hospital of St. John at Bruges)
MYSTERY: Catherine the bride of Christ.
She kneels, and on her hand the holy Child
Now sets the ring. Her life is hushed and mild,
Laid in God's knowledge—ever unenticed
From God, and in the end thus fitly priced.
Awe, and the music that is near her, wrought
Of angels, have possessed her eyes in thought:
Her utter joy is hers, and hath sufficed.
There is a pause while Mary Virgin turns
The leaf, and reads. With eyes on the spread book,
That damsel at her knees reads after her.
John whom He loved, and John His harbinger,
Listen and watch. Whereon soe'er thou look,
The light is starred in gems and the gold burns.
Lord, living, here are we
As fast united, yet
As when our hands and hearts by Thee
Together first were knit,
And, in a thankful song,
Now sing we will Thy praise,
For, that Thou dost as well prolong
Our loving as our days.
Together we have now
Begun another year;
But how much time Thou wilt allow
Thou mak'st it not appear.
We, therefore, do implore
That live and love we may,
Still so, as if but one day more
Together we should stay.
Let each of other's wealth
Preserve a faithful care,
And of each other's joy and health,
As if one soul we were.
Such conscience let us make,
Each other not to grieve,
As if we, daily, were to take
Our everlasting-leave.
The frowardness that springs
From our corrupted kind,
Or from those troublous outward things,
Which may distract the mind,
Permit Thou not, O Lord,
Our constant love to shake;
Or to disturb our true accord,
Or make our hearts to ache.
But let these frailties prove
Affection's exercize;
And that discretion teach our love
Which wins the noblest prize.
So Time which wears away
And ruins all things else
Shall fix our love on Thee for aye
In Whom perfection dwells.
'
And so we may arrive by Talmud skill
And profane Greek to raise the building up
Of Helen's house against the Ismaelite,
King of Thogarma, and his habergeons
Brimstony, blue and fiery; and the force
Of King A baddon, and the beast of Cittim;
Which Rabbi David Kimchi, Onkelos,
And A ben Ezra do interpret Rome.
'
-THE ALCHEMIST.
I
The mind has shown itself at times
Too much the baked and labeled dough
Divided by accepted multitudes.
Across the stacked partitions of the day-
Across the memoranda, baseball scores,
The stenographic smiles and stock quotations
Smutty wings flash out equivocations.
The mind is brushed by sparrow wings;
Numbers, rebuffed by asphalt, crowd
The margins of the day, accent the curbs,
Convoying divers dawns on every' corner
To druggist, barber and tobacconist,
Until the graduate opacities of evening
Take them away as suddenly to somewhere
Virginal perhaps, less fragmentary, cool.
There is the world dimensional for
those untwisted by the love of things
irreconcilable…
And yet, suppose some evening I forgot
The fare and transfer, yet got by that way
Without recall,-lost yet poised in traffic.
Then I might find your eyes across an aisle,
Still flickering with those prefigurations-
Prodigal, yet uncontested now,
Half-riant before the jerky window frame.
There is some way, I think, to touch
Those hands of yours that count the nights
Stippled with pink and green advertisements.
And now, before its arteries turn dark
I would have you meet this bartered blood.
Imminent in his dream, none better knows
The white wafer cheek of love, or offers words
Lightly as moonlight on the eaves meets snow.
Reflective conversion of all things
At your deep blush, when ecstasies thread
The limbs and belly, when rainbows spread
Impinging on the throat and sides
Inevitable, the body of the world
Weeps in inventive dust for the hiatus
That winks above it', bluet in your breasts.
The earth may glide diaphanous to death;
But if I lift my arms it is to bend
To you who turned away once, Helen, knowing
The press of troubled hands, too alternate
With steel and soil to hold you endlessly.
I meet you, therefore, in that eventual flame
You found in final chains, no captive then
Beyond their million brittle, bloodshot eyes;
White, through white cities passed on to assume
That world which comes to each of us alone.
Accept a lone eye riveted to your plane,
Bent axle of devotion along companion ways
That beat, continuous, to hourless days-
0ne inconspicuous, glowing orb of praise.
II
Brazen hypnotics glitter here;
Glee shifts from foot to foot,
Magnetic to their tremulo.
This crashing opera bouffe,
Blest excursion! this ricochet
From roof to roof-
Know, Olympians, we are breathless
While nigger cupids scour the stars!
A thousand light shrugs balance us
Through snarling hails of melody.
White shadows slip across the floor
Splayed like cards from a loose hand;
Rhythmic ellipses lead into canters
Until somewhere a rooster banters.
Greet naively-yet intrepidly
New soothings, new amazements
That cornets introduce at every turn-
And you may fall downstairs with me
With perfect grace and equanimity.
Or, plaintively scud past shores
Where, by strange harmonic laws
All relatives, serene and cool,
Sit rocked in patent armchairs.
0, I have known metallic paradises
Where cuckoos clucked to finches
Above the deft catastrophes of drums.
While titters hailed the groans of death
Beneath gyrating awnings I have seen
The incunabula of the divine grotesque.
This music has a reassuring way,
The siren of the ' springs of guilty song-
Let us take her on the incandescent wax
Striated with nuances nervosities
That we are heir to: she is still so young,
She cannot frown upon her as she smiles,
Dipping here in this cultivated storm
Among slim skaters of the gardened skies.
III
Capped arbiter of beauty in this street
That narrows -darkly into motor dawn,
You, here beside m/e, delicate ambassador
Of intricate slain numbers that arise
In whispers, naked of steel;
religious gunman!
Who faithfully, yourself, will fall too soon,
And in other ways than as the wind settles
On the sixteen thrifty bridges of the city:
Let us unbind our throats of fear and pity.
We even,
Who drove speediest destruction
In corymbulous formations of mechanics,-
Who hurried the hill breezes, spouting malice
Plangent over meadows, and looked down
On rifts of torn and empty houses
Like old women with teeth unjubilant
That waited faintly, briefly and in vain:
We know, eternal gunman, our flesh remembers
The tensile boughs, the nimble blue plateaus,
The mounted, yielding cities of the air!
That saddled sky that shook down vertical
Repeated play of fire-no hypogeum
Of wave or rock was good against one hour.
We did not ask for that, but have survived,
And will persist to speak again before
All stubble streets that have not curved
To memory, or known the ominous lifted arm
That lowers down the arc of Helen's brow
To saturate with blessing and dismay.
A goose, tobacco and cologne-
Three winged and gold-shod prophecies of heaven,
The lavish heart shall always have to leaven
And spread with bells and voices, and atone
The abating shadows of our conscript dust.
Anchises' navel, dripping of the sea,-
The hands Erasmus dipped in gleaming tides,
Gathered the voltage of blown blood and vine;
Delve upward for the new and scattered wine,
0 brother-thief of time, that we recall.
Laugh out the meager penance of their days
Who dare not share with us the breath released,
The substance drilled and spent beyond repair
For golden, or the shadow of gold hair.
Distinctly praise the years, whose volatile
Blamed bleeding hands extend and thresh the height
The imagination spans beyond despair,
Outpacing bargain, vocable and prayer.
Is there freedom in your marriage?
Or is there bondage bringing woe
Is there freedom in your marriage?
This is what I'd like to know.
For marriage is two people
Each sharing the others love
Not telling each other how to live
Nor giving each other the shove.
For each is an individual
With free-will to be such;
Giving and receiving in their talents -
However much.
Having freedom to enjoy at times
What each may like to do;
Pleasing each other by attitude
Being happy for each too.
Standing by each other
When outsiders shoot the tongue
No matter what the cost might be
For freedom you're among.
So, is there freedom in your marriage?
I pray there is today,
For only in love's freedom -
Marriage will be for aye!
817
Given in Marriage unto Thee
Oh thou Celestial Host—
Bride of the Father and the Son
Bride of the Holy Ghost.
Other Betrothal shall dissolve—
Wedlock of Will, decay—
Only the Keeper of this Ring
Conquer Mortality—
Full seventeen years have rolled off now
Since marriage; only God knows ‘how? ’
We may have had our years of strife;
But on the whole, ‘twas nice a life!
Our children are our wealth;
The Scripture gives us health
Of body, mind, heart, soul,
Till we fulfill our role.
The morrow seems so good;
So is our spiritual mood;
God cares and us provides;
Our future, He decides.
Let worry, never us worry;
Our failures past, we must bury;
For sins, let’s say to God. ‘Sorry! ’
En Road to Heaven, let’s hurry!
Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel, and lower the proud;
Turn thy wild wheel thro' sunshine, storm, and cloud;
Thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.
Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel with smile or frown;
With that wild wheel we go not up or down;
Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.
Smile and we smile, the lords of many lands;
Frown and we smile, the lords of our own hands;
For man is man and master of his fate.
Turn, turn thy wheel above the staring crowd;
Thy wheel and thou are shadows in the cloud;
Thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.
Deep in the cotton petals of a watermark
I see my father stacking sheets of plywood,
his hands freckled with sawdust, his silvery
white skin flickering in the sun, my mother
standing beside him, measuring each plank
of wood, her eyes like blackberries floating
in a pool of milk. She says, 'There's something
wrong, ' and fog settles like an argument.
A Coca-Cola bottle sweats on the picnic table,
the petals of pansies curl into tight yellow fists,
and my parents stand there, like boards that won't
fit, like two splintered edges refusing to meet.
-from Tar River Poetry
Is marriage a forced prostitution?
Or part of noble institution?
Why there be irrelevant question?
Or even stress and specific mention,
When tied a nuptial knot,
No question of no or not,
After so many wrangles fought,
Beautiful creature in vision is caught,
Many argue it is decided in heaven,
Not facing odds but some situation also even,
When marriage is over, happy ending then,
Question arises how to begin new life and when,
Initial days pass with happiness and joy,
To keep bride happy all tactics employ,
Each passing of day may add happiness or gloom,
Flowers also may fade after initial boom,
When wife starts distancing self,
All utensils make noise in shelf,
Soon to realize reality and gravity of situation,
Days may be over marking end of infatuation,
With issue of one or two more kids,
Most of the time spent on feeds,
Slackness in relation emerge to surface,
Wife may feel as if going near to furnace,
All this lead to scuffle and unrest,
Real time comes when relation to test,
All try to avoid and keep it as best,
Everything now done is at their behest,
Legal pundits say marriage can be termed,
Forced prostitution may be but can’t be named,
Court may term it as torture and atrocity,
Life can be in doldrums and not remain as continuity,
Whether willing or unwilling she has to submit,
Though not to liking but surrender and admit,
But it is long and painful debate,
Matter should end and nothing more to relate,
Jane went to Paradise:
That was only fair.
Good Sir Walter followed her,
And armed her up the stair.
Henry and Tobias,
And Miguel of Spain,
Stood with Shakespeare at the top
To welcome Jane--
Then the Three Archangels
Offered out of hand
Anything in Heaven's gift
That she might command.
Azrael's eyes upon her,
Raphael's wings above,
Michael's sword against her heart,
Jane said: "Love."
Instantly the under-
Standing Seraphim
Laid their fingers on their lips
And went to look for him.
Stole across the Zodiac,
Harnessed Charles's Wain,
And whispered round the Nebulae
"Who loved Jane?"
In a private limbo
Where none had thought to look,
Sat a Hampshire gentleman
Reading of a book.
It was called Persuasion
And it told the plain
Story of the love between
Him and Jane.
He heard the question,
Circle Heaven through--
Closed the book and answered:
"I did -- and do!"
Quietly but speedily
(As Captain Wentworth moved)
Entered into Paradise
The man Jane loved!
Jane lies in Winchester, blessed be her shade!
Praise the Lord for making her, and her for all she made.
And while the stones of Winchester--or Milson Street--remain,
Glory, Love, and Honour unto England's Jane!
Janet Jackson is allergic to marriage,
Imagine that?
Her brother is Michael,
he hangs around and lets little boys sleep in his bed,
Is there a kind of perverse genetic disorder that is involved their respective genomes?
I think their whole world is malfunctioning;
Whether it may a super bowl wardrobe or plastic surgical face.
Michael’s propping of his offspring on the outside balcony,
in Germany,
Janet affinity to her pop star status makes one wonder and convinced,
Yes, I am really blessed and lucky.
(2-25-2008)
Quella stradaccia me la sò lograta:
Ma quanti passi me ce fussi fatto
Nun c'era da ottené pe gnisun patto
De potemme sposà co mi' cuggnata.
Io c'ero diventato mezzo matto,
Perché, dico, ch'edè sta baggianata
C'una sorella l'ho d'avé assaggiata
E l'antra no! nun è l'istesso piatto?
Finarmente una sera l'abbataccio
Me disse: "Fijo se ce stata coppola,
Pròvelo, e la licenza te la faccio".
"Benissimo Eccellenza", io jarisposi:
Poi curzi a casa, e, pe nu dì una stroppola,
M'incoppolai Presseda, e ssemo sposi.
English
I've worn out that damned street [1] :
But in spite of all this walking
There was no way to obtain the permission
To marry my sister-in-law.
It was driving me crazy
Because, I say, what a nonsense
That I already had a taste of one sister [2] ,
But not the other! Isn't it just the same?
Finally one evening the damned abbot
Told me: "My dear, if there has been copulation,
Prove it, and I'll give you the licence".
"Very well, Excellency", I answered:
Then I rushed home and, not to tell a lie,
I had sex with Praxedes [3] , and we got married.
Love and marriage
Love and marriage
Go together
Like ice cream and cabbage
And i'll tell you, brother
If she don't like sex
Just blame the mother.
Why should a foolish marriage vow,
Which long ago was made,
Oblige us to each other now
When passion is decay'd?
We lov'd, and we lov'd, as long as we could,
Till our love was lov'd out in us both:
But our marriage is dead, when the pleasure is fled:
'Twas pleasure first made it an oath.
If I have pleasures for a friend,
And farther love in store,
What wrong has he whose joys did end,
And who could give no more?
'Tis a madness that he should be jealous of me,
Or that I should bar him of another:
For all we can gain is to give our selves pain,
When neither can hinder the other.
The bride delineates obedience.
As a wife, she manifests defiance.
The groom demonstrates slavery..
As a husband, he employs slavery.
16.06.2008
Marriage gives life to love and love gives life to marriage.
In marriage, love means:
To know in your heart you were meant only for each-other.
To know that Heaven grew you apart and brought you together after the time you were meant to be molded to fit each-other.
To discover what it is to be best friends forever.
To discover what it is to love someone more than yourself.
To discover you are actually only a half and how much you need the other to be complete.
To discover the bonds that form when times get tough.
To discover how much more joy is multiplied when there is someone you love to share it with.
Each day is a day of discovery, a day to build your love, a day to make your bond stronger.
Marriage is:
To together choose one way, not one's own way.
To respect and honor with love the other over oneself or anyone else.
To compromise with each-other but never compromising each-other.
To know you are loved, wanted and needed whether you are fat or thin, well or ill, chirpy or grumpy.
To live life's summer, winter, autumn and spring always being there for one another.
To blend as one that over the years you feel as one and speak as one.
To be savored like wine, enriched by the passing of time.
To honor Marriage is to honor its Maker. To commit in marriage is to commit to its Maker.
Music and silver chimes and sunlit air,
Freighted with the scent of honeyed orange-flower;
Glad, friendly festal faces everywhere.
She, rapt from all in this unearthly hour,
With cloudlike, cast-back veil and faint-flushed cheek,
In bridal beauty moves as in a trance
Alone with him, and fears to breathe, to speak,
Lest the rare, subtle spell dissolve perchance.
But he upon that floral head looks down,
Noting the misty eyes, the grave sweet brow--
Doubts if her bliss be perfect as his own,
And dedicates anew with inward vow
His soul unto her service, to repay
Richly the sacrifice she yields this day.
“Do you...
(Donall Donall)
take this woman’s body
to have & to hold
to totally transform
by the bliss
of loving her? ”
“I do...I do! ”
“Do you...
(Janice A. Windle)
take this man
to tease & to tempt
to tantalise beyond
all human endurance
so that he almost
expires from the ecstasy
of your loving arms? ”
“I do...I do too! ”
“You may now
make love.”
Had you a choice, would you choose a
mate for money or for what the person
represents?
Your answer reveals the shallowness or
the depth of who you are.
© Joe Fazio
Marriage is a fulfillment of dreams
It is an oath of life between two loving partners
It is the most beautiful thing that can happen in your life
It is a feeling to be cherished, nurtured and care for
It is promise today for tomorrow together
It is bond to hold each other when love bloom
It is caring each other life time
It is an understanding between two hearts
It is willingness to step forward without being afraid
It is sharing, forgiving and compassion
It is mysterious but ask you to share the secrets
Trust each other and the journey of marriage will lead
in to a great love forever.
Love spoke to marriage,
“It is I who come first.”
For which marriage replied,
“It is for me you come.”
Arguments arose and words clashed.
Both who were one with another,
Split away and, the result,
No love ended in marriage,
And all marriages broke.
At last, He the Maker spoke,
“Love, you are My happening.
Marriage, you are My new beginning.
Without the other you shan’t survive.”
And then on, they walked hand-in hand.
Countless couple cut communication
Communication cut, cripples courtship
Continuous communication creates;
Captivating colourful courtship
Most married men make many mistakes
Mates misunderstand marriage’s missions
Marriage’s missions: mentoring, maturing, multiplication, mating
Mission missed marriage messed
Mate must meet marriage’s missions
Mission met marriage mended
Light, so low upon earth,
You send a flash to the sun.
Here is the golden close of love,
All my wooing is done.
Oh, the woods and the meadows,
Woods where we hid from the wet,
Stiles where we stay'd to be kind,
Meadows in which we met!
Light, so low in the vale
You flash and lighten afar,
For this is the golden morning of love,
And you are his morning start.
Flash, I am coming, I come,
By meadow and stile and wood,
Oh, lighten into my eyes and heart,
Into my heart and my blood!
Heart, are you great enough
For a love that never tires?
O' heart, are you great enough for love?
I have heard of thorns and briers,
Over the meadow and stiles,
Over the world to the end of it
Flash for a million miles.
Fades the moonlight on the sea,
And the dawn is coming in —
What will this day bring for me,
This of all days, Evelyn?
Ah! to-day our hands we plight;
Life or death is in the vow;
All that earth knows of delight
Or of grief is round me now —
While the dawn-light limns the shore,
And thou in thy lonely sleep
Dream'st thy maiden dreams before
Hymen's mystery shall steep
Thy heart's fancies in mine own,
And the pulse of passion stir
With the esctasy that's known
Only to Love's worshipper.
Marriage is the joining of two bodies and two minds
Past mistakes are unwanted and better left behind
From this day forth you must take care of each other
You’ll learn to draw strength each day from one another
The first year is hardest but you must learn to adapt
Find your middle ground and the rest will work out
It’s a beautiful journey if you are dedicated
Time is your friend and will keep you educated
Learn from mistakes and heed this advice
Never bring them up and never try them twice
Appreciate each other and be verbally kind
Each day when the sun sets leave your anger behind
As your journey progresses and the children arrive
Remember to keep your marriage alive
Your children will grow up and leave the nest
Make sure your marriage doesn’t die from loneliness
By following these words you’ll find marriage is bliss
And you’ll find there is no better place than this
Home is meant to be your soft place to fall
And the love you project will envelope it all
Should I get married? Should I be Good?
Astound the girl next door with my velvet suit and faustaus hood?
Don't take her to movies but to cemeteries
tell all about werewolf bathtubs and forked clarinets
then desire her and kiss her and all the preliminaries
and she going just so far and I understanding why
not getting angry saying You must feel! It's beautiful to feel!
Instead take her in my arms lean against an old crooked tombstone
and woo her the entire night the constellations in the sky-
When she introduces me to her parents
back straightened, hair finally combed, strangled by a tie,
should I sit knees together on their 3rd degree sofa
and not ask Where's the bathroom?
How else to feel other than I am,
often thinking Flash Gordon soap-
O how terrible it must be for a young man
seated before a family and the family thinking
We never saw him before! He wants our Mary Lou!
After tea and homemade cookies they ask What do you do for a living?
Should I tell them? Would they like me then?
Say All right get married, we're losing a daughter
but we're gaining a son-
And should I then ask Where's the bathroom?
O God, and the wedding! All her family and her friends
and only a handful of mine all scroungy and bearded
just waiting to get at the drinks and food-
And the priest! He looking at me if I masturbated
asking me Do you take this woman for your lawful wedded wife?
And I trembling what to say say Pie Glue!
I kiss the bride all those corny men slapping me on the back
She's all yours, boy! Ha-ha-ha!
And in their eyes you could see some obscene honeymoon going on-
then all that absurd rice and clanky cans and shoes
Niagara Falls! Hordes of us! Husbands! Wives! Flowers! Chocolates!
All streaming into cozy hotels
All going to do the same thing tonight
The indifferent clerk he knowing what was going to happen
The lobby zombies they knowing what
The whistling elevator man he knowing
The winking bellboy knowing
Everybody knowing! I'd be almost inclined not to do anything!
Stay up all night! Stare that hotel clerk in the eye!
Screaming: I deny honeymoon! I deny honeymoon!
running rampant into those almost climatic suites
yelling Radio belly! Cat shovel!
O I'd live in Niagara forever! in a dark cave beneath the Falls
I'd sit there the Mad Honeymooner devising ways to break marriages, a scourge of bigamy a saint of divorce-
But I should get married I should be good
How nice it'd be to come home to her
and sit by the fireplace and she in the kitchen
aproned young and lovely wanting by baby
and so happy about me she burns the roast beef
and comes crying to me and I get up from my big papa chair
saying Christmas teeth! Radiant brains! Apple deaf!
God what a husband I'd make! Yes, I should get married!
So much to do! like sneaking into Mr Jones' house late at night
and cover his golf clubs with 1920 Norwegian books
Like hanging a picture of Rimbaud on the lawnmower
like pasting Tannu Tuva postage stamps all over the picket fence
like when Mrs Kindhead comes to collect for the Community Chest
grab her and tell her There are unfavorable omens in the sky!
And when the mayor comes to get my vote tell him
When are you going to stop people killing whales!
And when the milkman comes leave him a note in the bottle
Penguin dust, bring me penguin dust, I want penguin dust-
Yet if I should get married and it's Connecticut and snow
and she gives birth to a child and I am sleepless, worn,
up for nights, head bowed against a quiet window, the past behind me,
finding myself in the most common of situations a trembling man
knowledged with responsibility not twig-smear not Roman coin soup-
O what would that be like!
Surely I'd give it for a nipple a rubber Tacitus
For a rattle bag of broken Bach records
Tack Della Francesca all over its crib
Sew the Greek alphabet on its bib
And build for its playpen a roofless Parthenon
No, I doubt I'd be that kind of father
not rural not snow no quiet window
but hot smelly New York City
seven flights up, roaches and rats in the walls
a fat Reichian wife screeching over potatoes Get a job!
And five nose running brats in love with Batman
And the neighbors all toothless and dry haired
like those hag masses of the 18th century
all wanting to come in and watch TV
The landlord wants his rent
Grocery store Blue Cross Gas & Electric Knights of Columbus
Impossible to lie back and dream Telephone snow, ghost parking-
No! I should not get married and I should never get married!
But-imagine if I were to marry a beautiful sophisticated woman
tall and pale wearing an elegant black dress and long black gloves
holding a cigarette holder in one hand and highball in the other
and we lived high up a penthouse with a huge window
from which we could see all of New York and even farther on clearer days
No I can't imagine myself married to that pleasant prison dream-
O but what about love? I forget love
not that I am incapable of love
it's just that I see love as odd as wearing shoes-
I never wanted to marry a girl who was like my mother
And Ingrid Bergman was always impossible
And there maybe a girl now but she's already married
And I don't like men and-
but there's got to be somebody!
Because what if I'm 60 years old and not married,
all alone in furnished room with pee stains on my underwear
and everybody else is married! All in the universe married but me!
Ah, yet well I know that were a woman possible as I am possible
then marriage would be possible-
Like SHE in her lonely alien gaud waiting her Egyptian lover
so I wait-bereft of 2,000 years and the bath of life.
Age old saying about marriage,
Sacred bonding and not carriage,
It is not freedom from cage,
Necessarily arising with completion of age,
No one thought of its sanity,
What are marriage and its utility?
Does that stand for population continuity?
Permanent bond and relation in amity,
New relations with two families union,
End of sour relation and exit form oblivion,
Finding perfect match as true companion,
With gala dance and lavish dishes in pavilion,
So long confined within limits, can be perfect,
Enhancing prestige and image with great impact,
Adding to civility with understanding and respect,
Surely it is an arrangement and not a pact,
Lavish spending is not necessarily,
Simple marriage with blessings happily,
Out of reach expenditure will be simply silly,
Not a wise steps but committing folly,
Parent may suffer on account of marriage,
Colossal waste of money can’t manage,
Adding to worry with heavy burden,
Pressure may be high to tackle it sudden,
With over of ceremony no more worry,
Calm all over and nothing to hurry,
Simple way of parting beloved one,
Sharing of joy but pain by none
Then Almitra spoke again and said, 'And what of Marriage, master?'
And he answered saying:
You were born together, and together you shall be forevermore.
You shall be together when white wings of death scatter your days.
Aye, you shall be together even in the silent memory of God.
But let there be spaces in your togetherness,
And let the winds of the heavens dance between you.
Love one another but make not a bond of love:
Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.
Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup.
Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf.
Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone,
Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music.
Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping.
For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts.
And stand together, yet not too near together:
For the pillars of the temple stand apart,
And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow.
This institution,
perhaps one should say enterprise
out of respect for which
one says one need not change one's mind
about a thing one has believed in,
requiring public promises
of one's intention
to fulfill a private obligation:
I wonder what Adam and Eve
think of it by this time,
this firegilt steel
alive with goldenness;
how bright it shows --
"of circular traditions and impostures,
committing many spoils,"
requiring all one's criminal ingenuity
to avoid!
Psychology which explains everything
explains nothing
and we are still in doubt.
Eve: beautiful woman --
I have seen her
when she was so handsome
she gave me a start,
able to write simultaneously
in three languages --
English, German and French
and talk in the meantime;
equally positive in demanding a commotion
and in stipulating quiet:
"I should like to be alone;"
to which the visitor replies,
"I should like to be alone;
why not be alone together?"
Below the incandescent stars
below the incandescent fruit,
the strange experience of beauty;
its existence is too much;
it tears one to pieces
and each fresh wave of consciousness
is poison.
"See her, see her in this common world,"
the central flaw
in that first crystal-fine experiment,
this amalgamation which can never be more
than an interesting possibility,
describing it
as "that strange paradise
unlike flesh, gold, or stately buildings,
the choicest piece of my life:
the heart rising
in its estate of peace
as a boat rises
with the rising of the water;"
constrained in speaking of the serpent --
that shed snakeskin in the history of politeness
not to be returned to again --
that invaluable accident
exonerating Adam.
And he has beauty also;
it's distressing -- the O thou
to whom, from whom,
without whom nothing -- Adam;
"something feline,
something colubrine" -- how true!
a crouching mythological monster
in that Persian miniature of emerald mines,
raw silk -- ivory white, snow white,
oyster white and six others --
that paddock full of leopards and giraffes --
long lemonyellow bodies
sown with trapezoids of blue.
Alive with words,
vibrating like a cymbal
touched before it has been struck,
he has prophesied correctly --
the industrious waterfall,
"the speedy stream
which violently bears all before it,
at one time silent as the air
and now as powerful as the wind."
"Treading chasms
on the uncertain footing of a spear,"
forgetting that there is in woman
a quality of mind
which is an instinctive manifestation
is unsafe,
he goes on speaking
in a formal, customary strain
of "past states," the present state,
seals, promises,
the evil one suffered,
the good one enjoys,
hell, heaven,
everything convenient
to promote one's joy."
There is in him a state of mind
by force of which,
perceiving what it was not
intended that he should,
"he experiences a solemn joy
in seeing that he has become an idol."
Plagued by the nightingale
in the new leaves,
with its silence --
not its silence but its silences,
he says of it:
"It clothes me with a shirt of fire."
"He dares not clap his hands
to make it go on
lest it should fly off;
if he does nothing, it will sleep;
if he cries out, it will not understand."
Unnerved by the nightingale
and dazzled by the apple,
impelled by "the illusion of a fire
effectual to extinguish fire,"
compared with which
the shining of the earth
is but deformity -- a fire
"as high as deep as bright as broad
as long as life itself,"
he stumbles over marriage,
"a very trivial object indeed"
to have destroyed the attitude
in which he stood --
the ease of the philosopher
unfathered by a woman.
Unhelpful Hymen!
"a kind of overgrown cupid"
reduced to insignificance
by the mechanical advertising
parading as involuntary comment,
by that experiment of Adam's
with ways out but no way in --
the ritual of marriage,
augmenting all its lavishness;
its fiddle-head ferns,
lotus flowers, opuntias, white dromedaries,
its hippopotamus --
nose and mouth combined
in one magnificent hopper,
"the crested screamer --
that huge bird almost a lizard,"
its snake and the potent apple.
He tells us
that "for love
that will gaze an eagle blind,
that is like a Hercules
climbing the trees
in the garden of the Hesperides,
from forty-five to seventy
is the best age,"
commending it
as a fine art, as an experiment,
a duty or as merely recreation.
One must not call him ruffian
nor friction a calamity --
the fight to be affectionate:
"no truth can be fully known
until it has been tried
by the tooth of disputation."
The blue panther with black eyes,
the basalt panther with blue eyes,
entirely graceful --
one must give them the path --
the black obsidian Diana
who "darkeneth her countenance
as a bear doth,
causing her husband to sigh,"
the spiked hand
that has an affection for one
and proves it to the bone,
impatient to assure you
that impatience is the mark of independence
not of bondage.
"Married people often look that way" --
"seldom and cold, up and down,
mixed and malarial
with a good day and bad."
"When do we feed?"
We occidentals are so unemotional,
we quarrel as we feed;
one's self is quite lost,
the irony preserved
in "the Ahasuerus tête à tête banquet"
with its "good monster, lead the way,"
with little laughter
and munificence of humor
in that quixotic atmosphere of frankness
in which "Four o'clock does not exist
but at five o'clock
the ladies in their imperious humility
are ready to receive you";
in which experience attests
that men have power
and sometimes one is made to feel it.
He says, "what monarch would not blush
to have a wife
with hair like a shaving-brush?
The fact of woman
is not `the sound of the flute
but every poison.'"
She says, "`Men are monopolists
of stars, garters, buttons
and other shining baubles' --
unfit to be the guardians
of another person's happiness."
He says, "These mummies
must be handled carefully --
`the crumbs from a lion's meal,
a couple of shins and the bit of an ear';
turn to the letter M
and you will find
that `a wife is a coffin,'
that severe object
with the pleasing geometry
stipulating space and not people,
refusing to be buried
and uniquely disappointing,
revengefully wrought in the attitude
of an adoring child
to a distinguished parent."
She says, "This butterfly,
this waterfly, this nomad
that has `proposed
to settle on my hand for life.' --
What can one do with it?
There must have been more time
in Shakespeare's day
to sit and watch a play.
You know so many artists are fools."
He says, "You know so many fools
who are not artists."
The fact forgot
that "some have merely rights
while some have obligations,"
he loves himself so much,
he can permit himself
no rival in that love.
She loves herself so much,
she cannot see herself enough --
a statuette of ivory on ivory,
the logical last touch
to an expansive splendor
earned as wages for work done:
one is not rich but poor
when one can always seem so right.
What can one do for them --
these savages
condemned to disaffect
all those who are not visionaries
alert to undertake the silly task
of making people noble?
This model of petrine fidelity
who "leaves her peaceful husband
only because she has seen enough of him" --
that orator reminding you,
"I am yours to command."
"Everything to do with love is mystery;
it is more than a day's work
to investigate this science."
One sees that it is rare --
that striking grasp of opposites
opposed each to the other, not to unity,
which in cycloid inclusiveness
has dwarfed the demonstration
of Columbus with the egg --
a triumph of simplicity --
that charitive Euroclydon
of frightening disinterestedness
which the world hates,
admitting:
"I am such a cow,
if I had a sorrow,
I should feel it a long time;
I am not one of those
who have a great sorrow
in the morning
and a great joy at noon;"
which says: "I have encountered it
among those unpretentious
protegés of wisdom,
where seeming to parade
as the debater and the Roman,
the statesmanship
of an archaic Daniel Webster
persists to their simplicity of temper
as the essence of the matter:
`Liberty and union
now and forever;'
the book on the writing-table;
the hand in the breast-pocket."
LOVE springs as lightly from the human heart
As springs the lovely rose upon the brier,
Which turns the common hedge to floral fire,
As Love wings Time with rosy-feathered dart.
But marriage is the subtlest work of art
Of all the arts which lift the spirit higher;
The incarnation of the heart's desire--
Which masters Time--set on Man's will apart.
The Many try, but oh! how few are they
To whom that finest of the arts is given
Which shall teach Love, the rosy runaway,
To bide from bridal Morn to brooding Even.
Yet this--this only--is the narrow way
By which, while yet on earth, we enter heaven.
Before Marriage
A free life sportive like a fawn,
Or a flying bird in the limitless sky,
Time is mine from dusk to dawn,
And know not how to be shy.
After Marriage
A weighty life full of duties,
Like a fruitful but an old tree,
That is aware of all beauties,
And becomes grave like the sea.
Year 1
Launching our boat
On the lake of life.
Two eager shipmates
Going wherever the gentle breeze
Takes us
Too caught in each other’s arms and eyes
To see where we are
Or care
Where we are heading.
Year 10
Rowing furiously,
Back to back.
Focused
On opposite shores
Trying desperately to free ourselves
From the other’s grip.
Year 25
Now we sit
Side by side,
Synchronised strokes
In our battered boat.
Basking in the warmth
Of unchallenging
Companionship
As we enjoy the view
Of the journey we’ve shared.
Fair is my dove, my loved one,
None can with her compare:
Yea, comely as Jerusalem,
Like unto Tirzah fair.
Shall she in tents unstable
A wanderer abide,
While in my heart awaits her
A dwelling deep and wide?
The magic of her beauty
Has stolen my heart away:
Not Egypt's wise enchanters
Held half such wondrous sway.
Even as the changing opal
In varying luster glows,
Her face at every moment
New charms and sweetness shows.
White lilies and red roses
There blossom on one stem:
Her lips of crimson berries
Tempt mine to gather them.
By dusky tresses shaded
Her brow gleams fair and pale,
Like to the sun at twilight,
Behind a cloudy veil.
Her beauty shames the day-star,
And makes the darkness light:
Day in her radiant presence
Grows seven times more bright.
This is a lonely lover!
Come, fair one, to his side,
That happy be together
The bridegroom and the bride!
The hour of love approaches
That shall make one of twain:
Soon may be thus united
All Israel's hosts again!
'They have no more wine!' she said.
But they had enough of bread;
And the vessels by the door
Held for thirst a plenteous store:
Yes,
enough
; but Love divine
Turned the water into wine!
When should wine like water flow,
But when home two glad hearts go!
When, in sacred bondage bound,
Soul in soul hath freedom found!
Such the time when, holy sign,
Jesus turned the water wine.
Good is all the feasting then;
Good the merry words of men;
Good the laughter and the smiles;
Good the wine that grief beguiles;-
Crowning good, the Word divine
Turning water into wine!
Friends, the Master with you dwell!
Daily work this miracle!
When fair things too common grow,
Bring again their heavenly show!
Ever at your table dine,
Turning water into wine!
So at last you shall descry
All the patterns of the sky:
Earth a heaven of short abode;
Houses temples unto God;
Water-pots, to vision fine,
Brimming full of heavenly wine.
First, marriage should be love
all encompassing, total, and free.
Love that grows stronger each day
soft murmurs of Thee, Thee, Thee.
Second, marriage should be sacrifice
giving of self, regardless of reward.
Gift gladly given, with open heart
shielded from life's harsh sword.
Third, marriage should be commitment
utter loyalty, deep to the bone.
Absolutely, no questions asked
faithfully promised, never alone.
Lastly, marriage should be forever
family bonded, yet all still free.
Lives joined with love, sacrifice, and commitment
an eternity promised with -
Thee, Thee, Thee
I Can't Wait! On the date! Believers meet!
At, Marriage Supper with Our Lord! All Adore!
When we all will have a seat, It'll be Sweet!
To be with Our Lord Jesus Christ! ! !
Do You have a Place? With, One Who's True?
Divine One! Who came to Save Me and You! !
If You don't know, What I'm talking about?
It's JESUS CHRIST! {The Giver of Life}
He's the Son of the Living God! This is True!
Accept and Believe in Him! Become Born-again!
Don't Doubt! Or try to Figure things out!
Just come to Jesus, Then You'll See!
By God's Grace! You'll have a Place!
At the Lord's Table! This is No Fable!
Come Celebrate! Marriage Supper With Our Lord!
It'll be Grand! ! ! So, Concord!
Where His Light will Shine! On All man-kind!
There will be Great Peace all the Time!
Everything So, Excellent! His Love and Grace!
Just to be! With Our Lord! Forever for Eternity!
Unwillingly ushered in a house unknown,
Saw a young lady keeping head down,
White complexioned girl with eyes brown,
Almost frozen but expressions not frown,
I was at pained to learn orthodox way,
Children still not allowed having a say,
Uncertainty more and prediction less,
What is in store only assumptions and guess?
With great courage one may ask “hello”
Limited conversation and tradition to follow,
Parents present and limited talks,
Accompany to little distance with few step walks;
I am your would be companion,
Running a shop but not a champion,
Will allow freedom that you need,
No dowry, nothing or any more greed,
“Will you marry me” simply I ask,
Rush blood on face but hide in mask,
Wait for an answer and okay the proposal,
Parents too were ready for quick disposal,
Quick come yes as no competition,
answer ready even without question,
so stage is ready for lovely meet,
parent happy and exchange greet,
Day for final count down almost arrive,
simple way to wed and not to connive,
It’s way of life and norms to follow,
promise made doesn’t seem hollow
Pessimistic views: :
Marriage is a gamble!
Marriage is a punishment;
Marriage is an evil that
Most can’t but accept.
Optimistic views:
Marriage is a gift of God;
Marriage is a blessing;
Marriage is an enjoyment,
We make the best of it.
Truths:
Marriage is so wonderful;
Marriage is so fulfilling;
Marriage is so wholesome;
Marriage is an endless love,
More priceless than all wealth!
Marriage is a way of life;
Marriage is so natural;
Marriage is the better way,
For two, to reach Heaven.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-7-2006
I would be married, but I'd have no wife ;
I would be married to a single life.
Whom Love has joined no man may put asunder,
And he has never joined those who can part:
Marriage is this, no more, howe'er priests moan;
The rest is words, mere words, and custom's vapour
The heart will brush aside as easily
As fancy paints a picture.
See, in the Temple rais'd by Harley's Hand,
His beauteous Off--spring at the Altar stand:
There Mortimer resigns his darling Care;
To happy Portland gives the blooming Fair.
Where had the Parent's Pray'r like Favour found?
Where soar'd so high, as from that sacred Ground?
What Bosom, but Devotion's Ardor feels,
When, at the Shrine he hallow'd, Harley kneels?
At such a Sight superior Beings pleas'd,
To higher Notes their Hallelujahs rais'd.
Fondly, too curious Nature, to adorn
Aurora with the blushes of the morn:
Why do her rosy lips breath gums and spice;
Unto the East, and sweet to Paradise?
Why do her eyes open the day? her hand
And voice intrance the panther, and command
Incensed winds; her breasts, the tents of love,
Smooth as the godded swan, or Venus' dove;
Soft as the balmy dew whose every touch
Is pregnant; but why those rich spoils, when such
Wonder and perfection must be led
A bridal captive unto Tithon's bed?
Ag'd, and deformed Tithon! must thy twine
Circle and blast at once what care and time
Had made for wonder? must pure beauty have
No other foil but ruin and a grave?
So have I seen the pride of Nature's store,
The orient pearl chained to the sooty Moor;
So hath the diamond's bright ray been set
In night, and wedded to the negro jet.
See, see, how thick those showers of pearl do fall
To weep her ransom, or her funeral,
Whose every treasured drop, congealed, might bring,
Freedom and ransom to a fettered kin,
While tyrant Wealth stands by, and laughs to see
How he can wed love and antipathy.
Hymen, thy pine burns with adulterate fire;
Thou and thy quivered boy did once conspire
To mingle equal flames, and then no shine
Of gold, but beauty, dressed the Paphian shrine;
Roses and lilies kiss'd; the amorous vine
Did with the fair and straight-limb'd elm entwine.
Waking alone in a multitude of loves when morning's light
Surprised in the opening of her nightlong eyes
His golden yesterday asleep upon the iris
And this day's sun leapt up the sky out of her thighs
Was miraculous virginity old as loaves and fishes,
Though the moment of a miracle is unending lightning
And the shipyards of Galilee's footprints hide a navy of doves.
No longer will the vibrations of the sun desire on
Her deepsea pillow where once she married alone,
Her heart all ears and eyes, lips catching the avalanche
Of the golden ghost who ringed with his streams her mercury bone,
Who under the lids of her windows hoisted his golden luggage,
For a man sleeps where fire leapt down and she learns through his arm
That other sun, the jealous coursing of the unrivalled blood.
Nor did there on the other side, I ween,
Forms though more soft, less heav'nly appear;
Conjugal Love and Concord still were seen,
Becoming Meekness and Submission near;
Next Truth, a window in her naked breast,
Modesty and Prudence ever judging right,
Piety, adding lustre to the rest,
And heav'n-born Charity appear'd in sight;
Blest is the Maid whose paths these virtues guide,
Happy! thrice happy He possess'd of such a Bride!
Before the marriage can been framed
the canvas has to be unrolled,
and even if the artist is unnamed
make sure the story that he’s told
has not by framing been distorted,
for it was painted without borders,
and his intention may be thwarted
imposing order on disorders.
4/25/06
In seed time learn, in harvest teach, in winter enjoy.
Drive your cart and your plow over the bones of the dead.
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.
Prudence is a rich, ugly old maid courted by Incapacity.
He who desires but acts not, breeds pestilence.
The cut worm forgives the plow.
Dip him in the river who loves water.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees.
He whose face gives no light, shall never become a star.
Eternity is in love with the productions of time.
The busy bee has no time for sorrow.
The hours of folly are measur'd by the clock; but of wisdom, no clock can measure.
All wholesome food is caught without a net or a trap.
Bring out number, weight and measure in a year of dearth.
No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings.
A dead body revenges not injuries.
The most sublime act is to set another before you.
If the fool would persist in his folly he would become wise.
Folly is the cloak of knavery.
Shame is Pride's cloke.
Prisons are built with stones of law, brothels with bricks of religion.
The pride of the peacock is the glory of God.
The lust of the goat is the bounty of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom of God.
The nakedness of woman is the work of God.
Excess of sorrow laughs. Excess of joy weeps.
The roaring of lions, the howling of wolves, the raging of the stormy sea, and the destructive sword, are portions of eternity, too great for the eye of man.
The fox condemns the trap, not himself.
Joys impregnate. Sorrows bring forth.
Let man wear the fell of the lion, woman the fleece of the sheep.
The bird a nest, the spider a web, man friendship.
The selfish, smiling fool, and the sullen, frowning fool shall be both thought wise, that they may be a rod.
What is now proved was once only imagin'd.
The rat, the mouse, the fox, the rabbit watch the roots; the lion, the tyger, the horse, the elephant watch the fruits.
The cistern contains: the fountain overflows.
One thought fills immensity.
Always be ready to speak your mind, and a base man will avoid you.
Every thing possible to be believ'd is an image of truth.
The eagle never lost so much time as when he submitted to learn of the crow.
The fox provides for himself, but God provides for the lion.
Think in the morning. Act in the noon. Eat in the evening. Sleep in the night.
He who has suffer'd you to impose on him, knows you.
As the plow follows words, so God rewards prayers.
The tygers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.
Expect poison from the standing water.
You never know what is enough unless you know what is more than enough.
Listen to the fool's reproach! it is a kingly title!
The eyes of fire, the nostrils of air, the mouth of water, the beard of earth.
The weak in courage is strong in cunning.
The apple tree never asks the beech how he shall grow; nor the lion, the horse, how he shall take his prey.
The thankful receiver bears a plentiful harvest.
If others had not been foolish, we should be so.
The soul of sweet delight can never be defil'd.
When thou seest an eagle, thou seest a portion of genius; lift up thy head!
As the caterpiller chooses the fairest leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest lays his curse on the fairest joys.
To create a little flower is the labour of ages.
Damn braces. Bless relaxes.
The best wine is the oldest, the best water the newest.
Prayers plow not! Praises reap not!
Joys laugh not! Sorrows weep not!
The head Sublime, the heart Pathos, the genitals Beauty, the hands and feet Proportion.
As the air to a bird or the sea to a fish, so is contempt to the contemptible.
The crow wish'd every thing was black, the owl that every thing was white.
Exuberance is Beauty.
If the lion was advised by the fox, he would be cunning.
Improvement makes strait roads; but the crooked roads without improvement are roads of genius.
Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than nurse unacted desires.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Truth can never be told so as to be understood, and not be believ'd.
Enough! or too much.
Look, I'm quite happy
As an introverted, sloppy,
Creative, easygoing, poor,
Overweight, insecure misfit!
I don't need your anal,
Obsessive, ultra-organized,
Critical nitpicking!
I like it in my little hole.
Except that I need you
To come when I call you
And comfort me,
Relieve my loneliness,
Laugh at my jokes,
Share a little affection.
But watch it!
Don't say the wrong thing
Or suggest my world
Is anything but perfect.
There may be a candy wrapper
On the floor. You're not allowed
To say it. Even if you trip
Over that anvil while walking
Over to kiss me, not a word!
And if it doesn't smell so good in here
To you with your supersonic nose,
This is
my
hole, I'll do what I want
With my time and my space!
Observe these few little rules
And we'll get along just fine!
King Suddhodana’s  selection
As wife for Siddhartha, his son,
Was Yashodhara, the princess,
The most beautiful among ladies.
Her father, King Suprabuddha,
However doubted Siddhartha,
Whether he would fight,
If a war broke out?
As Siddhartha was too soft,
Peace loving and introvert,
He, the bride’s father, so felt,
And entertained this doubt.
He held a competition
To select a suitable man
From the royal families
To marry the princess.
Among those eligible men,
Prince Siddhartha was one,
Who took up the challenge
To prove his valor and courage.
To satisfy his father’s pride,
He joined the horse ride,
And won the race at last
Reaching the target first.
Devadatta, his cousin,
Had miserably failed to win,
Though he was very keen
To claim her as his own.
The princess, with a garland,
As her final test, went round,
To select the man of her choice
From among all the princes.
Siddhartha, the winner of race,
Also was the winner of princess,
When she garlanded him
Keeping her willing eyes on him.
The marriage of the prince,
In Kapilavastu City, took place,
With all pomp and show then,
As a royal grand celebration.
The King built another palace
For the prince and princess,
In the vicinity of Himalayas,
To enjoy its soft breeze.
From the outside world,
It was well barricaded,
For the prince to remain
Attached to his domain.
Why should a foolish marriage vow,
Which long ago was made,
Oblige us to each other now,
When passion is decayed?
We loved, and we loved, as long as we could,
Till our love was loved out in us both;
But our marriage is dead when the pleasure is fled:
'Twas pleasure first made it an oath.
If I have pleasures for a friend,
And farther love in store,
What wrong has he whose joys did end,
And who could give no more?
'Tis a madness that he should be jealous of me,
Or that I should bar him of another;
For all we can gain is to give ourselves pain,
When neither can hinder the other.
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove.
O no, it is an ever-fixèd mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove:
O no! it is an ever-fixed mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wandering bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come:
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
When once your single state of life is changed
By sacred Marriage vows and carnal ties,
You never from spouse ever be estranged;
The nuptial bond before God never dies.
To each other, you owe your fidelity,
And mutual understanding reigns supreme;
The union is for life’s eternity!
’Tis real and never becomes a dream.
And Marriage is a Sacrament for man!
No power on earth dare separate the two;
The hearts and bodies harmoniously can
Withstand all things attempting to undo.
With how many hearts can one heart unite?
The Sun has just the same Moon every night!
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments. Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove.
O no! it is an ever-fixed mark
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me prov'd,
I never writ, nor no man ever lov'd.
'Twas always held, and ever will,
By sage mankind, discreeter
To anticipate a lesser ill
Than undergo a greater.
When mortals dread disease, pain,
And languishing conditions,
Who don't the lesser ills sustain
Of physic-and physicians?
Rather than lose his whole estate,
He that but little wise is,
Full gladly pays four parts in eight,
To taxes and excises.
Our merchants Spain has near undone,
For lost ships not requiting;
This bears our noble King to shun
The loss of blood-in fighting!
With numerous ills, in single life,
The bachelor's attended;
Such to avoid, he takes a wife-
And much the case is mended!
Poor Gratia, in her twentieth year,
Foreseeing future woe,
Chose to attend a monkey here,
Before an ape below.
The ache of marriage:
thigh and tongue, beloved,
are heavy with it,
it throbs in the teeth
We look for communion
and are turned away, beloved,
each and each
It is leviathan and we
in its belly
looking for joy, some joy
not to be known outside it
two by two in the ark of
the ache of it.
I.
I dream of you walking at night along the streams
of the country of my birth, warm blooms and the nightsongs
of birds opening around you as you walk.
You are holding in your body the dark seed of my sleep.
II.
This comes after silence. Was it something I said
that bound me to you, some mere promise
or, worse, the fear of loneliness and death?
A man lost in the woods in the dark, I stood
still and said nothing. And then there rose in me,
like the earth's empowering brew rising
in root and branch, the words of a dream of you
I did not know I had dreamed. I was a wanderer
who feels the solace of his native land
under his feet again and moving in his blood.
I went on, blind and faithful. Where I stepped
my track was there to steady me. It was no abyss
that lay before me, but only the level ground.
III.
Sometimes our life reminds me
of a forest in which there is a graceful clearing
and in that opening a house,
an orchard and garden,
comfortable shades, and flowers
red and yellow in the sun, a pattern
made in the light for the light to return to.
The forest is mostly dark, its ways
to be made anew day after day, the dark
richer than the light and more blessed,
provided we stay brave
enough to keep on going in.
IV.
How many times have I come to you out of my head
with joy, if ever a man was,
for to approach you I have given up the light
and all directions. I come to you
lost, wholly trusting as a man who goes
into the forest unarmed. It is as though I descend
slowly earthward out of the air. I rest in peace
in you, when I arrive at last.
V.
Our bond is no little economy based on the exchange
of my love and work for yours, so much for so much
of an expendable fund. We don't know what its limits are--
that puts us in the dark. We are more together
than we know, how else could we keep on discovering
we are more together than we thought?
You are the known way leading always to the unknown,
and you are the known place to which the unknown is always
leading me back. More blessed in you than I know,
I possess nothing worthy to give you, nothing
not belittled by my saying that I possess it.
Even an hour of love is a moral predicament, a blessing
a man may be hard up to be worthy of. He can only
accept it, as a plant accepts from all the bounty of the light
enough to live, and then accepts the dark,
passing unencumbered back to the earth, as I
have fallen tine and again from the great strength
of my desire, helpless, into your arms.
VI.
What I am learning to give you is my death
to set you free of me, and me from myself
into the dark and the new light. Like the water
of a deep stream, love is always too much. We
did not make it. Though we drink till we burst
we cannot have it all, or want it all.
In its abundance it survives our thirst.
In the evening we come down to the shore
to drink our fill, and sleep, while it
flows through the regions of the dark.
It does not hold us, except we keep returning
to its rich waters thirsty. We enter,
willing to die, into the commonwealth of its joy.
VII.
I give you what is unbounded, passing from dark to dark,
containing darkness: a night of rain, an early morning.
I give you the life I have let live for the love of you:
a clump of orange-blooming weeds beside the road,
the young orchard waiting in the snow, our own life
that we have planted in the ground, as I
have planted mine in you. I give you my love for all
beautiful and honest women that you gather to yourself
again and again, and satisfy--and this poem,
no more mine than any man's who has loved a woman.
CUPID one day ask'd his Mother,
When she meant that he shou'd Wed?
You're too Young, my Boy, she said:
Nor has Nature made another
Fit to match with Cupid's Bed.
Cupid then her Sight directed
To a lately Wedded Pair;
Where Himself the Match effected;
They as Youthful, they as Fair.
Having by Example carry'd
This first Point in the Dispute;
WORSELEY next he said's not Marry'd:
Her's with Cupid's Charms may suit
The brave Geraint, a knight of Arthur's court,
A tributary prince of Devon, one
Of that great Order of the Table Round,
Had married Enid, Yniol's only child,
And loved her, as he loved the light of Heaven.
And as the light of Heaven varies, now
At sunrise, now at sunset, now by night
With moon and trembling stars, so loved Geraint
To make her beauty vary day by day,
In crimsons and in purples and in gems.
And Enid, but to please her husband's eye,
Who first had found and loved her in a state
Of broken fortunes, daily fronted him
In some fresh splendour; and the Queen herself,
Grateful to Prince Geraint for service done,
Loved her, and often with her own white hands
Arrayed and decked her, as the loveliest,
Next after her own self, in all the court.
And Enid loved the Queen, and with true heart
Adored her, as the stateliest and the best
And loveliest of all women upon earth.
And seeing them so tender and so close,
Long in their common love rejoiced Geraint.
But when a rumour rose about the Queen,
Touching her guilty love for Lancelot,
Though yet there lived no proof, nor yet was heard
The world's loud whisper breaking into storm,
Not less Geraint believed it; and there fell
A horror on him, lest his gentle wife,
Through that great tenderness for Guinevere,
Had suffered, or should suffer any taint
In nature:  wherefore going to the King,
He made this pretext, that his princedom lay
Close on the borders of a territory,
Wherein were bandit earls, and caitiff knights,
Assassins, and all flyers from the hand
Of Justice, and whatever loathes a law:
And therefore, till the King himself should please
To cleanse this common sewer of all his realm,
He craved a fair permission to depart,
And there defend his marches; and the King
Mused for a little on his plea, but, last,
Allowing it, the Prince and Enid rode,
And fifty knights rode with them, to the shores
Of Severn, and they past to their own land;
Where, thinking, that if ever yet was wife
True to her lord, mine shall be so to me,
He compassed her with sweet observances
And worship, never leaving her, and grew
Forgetful of his promise to the King,
Forgetful of the falcon and the hunt,
Forgetful of the tilt and tournament,
Forgetful of his glory and his name,
Forgetful of his princedom and its cares.
And this forgetfulness was hateful to her.
And by and by the people, when they met
In twos and threes, or fuller companies,
Began to scoff and jeer and babble of him
As of a prince whose manhood was all gone,
And molten down in mere uxoriousness.
And this she gathered from the people's eyes:
This too the women who attired her head,
To please her, dwelling on his boundless love,
Told Enid, and they saddened her the more:
And day by day she thought to tell Geraint,
But could not out of bashful delicacy;
While he that watched her sadden, was the more
Suspicious that her nature had a taint.
At last, it chanced that on a summer morn
(They sleeping each by either) the new sun
Beat through the blindless casement of the room,
And heated the strong warrior in his dreams;
Who, moving, cast the coverlet aside,
And bared the knotted column of his throat,
The massive square of his heroic breast,
And arms on which the standing muscle sloped,
As slopes a wild brook o'er a little stone,
Running too vehemently to break upon it.
And Enid woke and sat beside the couch,
Admiring him, and thought within herself,
Was ever man so grandly made as he?
Then, like a shadow, past the people's talk
And accusation of uxoriousness
Across her mind, and bowing over him,
Low to her own heart piteously she said:
'O noble breast and all-puissant arms,
Am I the cause, I the poor cause that men
Reproach you, saying all your force is gone?
I AM the cause, because I dare not speak
And tell him what I think and what they say.
And yet I hate that he should linger here;
I cannot love my lord and not his name.
Far liefer had I gird his harness on him,
And ride with him to battle and stand by,
And watch his mightful hand striking great blows
At caitiffs and at wrongers of the world.
Far better were I laid in the dark earth,
Not hearing any more his noble voice,
Not to be folded more in these dear arms,
And darkened from the high light in his eyes,
Than that my lord through me should suffer shame.
Am I so bold, and could I so stand by,
And see my dear lord wounded in the strife,
And maybe pierced to death before mine eyes,
And yet not dare to tell him what I think,
And how men slur him, saying all his force
Is melted into mere effeminacy?
O me, I fear that I am no true wife.'
Half inwardly, half audibly she spoke,
And the strong passion in her made her weep
True tears upon his broad and naked breast,
And these awoke him, and by great mischance
He heard but fragments of her later words,
And that she feared she was not a true wife.
And then he thought, 'In spite of all my care,
For all my pains, poor man, for all my pains,
She is not faithful to me, and I see her
Weeping for some gay knight in Arthur's hall.'
Then though he loved and reverenced her too much
To dream she could be guilty of foul act,
Right through his manful breast darted the pang
That makes a man, in the sweet face of her
Whom he loves most, lonely and miserable.
At this he hurled his huge limbs out of bed,
And shook his drowsy squire awake and cried,
'My charger and her palfrey;' then to her,
'I will ride forth into the wilderness;
For though it seems my spurs are yet to win,
I have not fallen so low as some would wish.
And thou, put on thy worst and meanest dress
And ride with me.'  And Enid asked, amazed,
'If Enid errs, let Enid learn her fault.'
But he, 'I charge thee, ask not, but obey.'
Then she bethought her of a faded silk,
A faded mantle and a faded veil,
And moving toward a cedarn cabinet,
Wherein she kept them folded reverently
With sprigs of summer laid between the folds,
She took them, and arrayed herself therein,
Remembering when first he came on her
Drest in that dress, and how he loved her in it,
And all her foolish fears about the dress,
And all his journey to her, as himself
Had told her, and their coming to the court.
For Arthur on the Whitsuntide before
Held court at old Caerleon upon Usk.
There on a day, he sitting high in hall,
Before him came a forester of Dean,
Wet from the woods, with notice of a hart
Taller than all his fellows, milky-white,
First seen that day:  these things he told the King.
Then the good King gave order to let blow
His horns for hunting on the morrow morn.
And when the King petitioned for his leave
To see the hunt, allowed it easily.
So with the morning all the court were gone.
But Guinevere lay late into the morn,
Lost in sweet dreams, and dreaming of her love
For Lancelot, and forgetful of the hunt;
But rose at last, a single maiden with her,
Took horse, and forded Usk, and gained the wood;
There, on a little knoll beside it, stayed
Waiting to hear the hounds; but heard instead
A sudden sound of hoofs, for Prince Geraint,
Late also, wearing neither hunting-dress
Nor weapon, save a golden-hilted brand,
Came quickly flashing through the shallow ford
Behind them, and so galloped up the knoll.
A purple scarf, at either end whereof
There swung an apple of the purest gold,
Swayed round about him, as he galloped up
To join them, glancing like a dragon-fly
In summer suit and silks of holiday.
Low bowed the tributary Prince, and she,
Sweet and statelily, and with all grace
Of womanhood and queenhood, answered him:
'Late, late, Sir Prince,' she said, 'later than we!'
'Yea, noble Queen,' he answered, 'and so late
That I but come like you to see the hunt,
Not join it.'  'Therefore wait with me,' she said;
'For on this little knoll, if anywhere,
There is good chance that we shall hear the hounds:
Here often they break covert at our feet.'
And while they listened for the distant hunt,
And chiefly for the baying of Cavall,
King Arthur's hound of deepest mouth, there rode
Full slowly by a knight, lady, and dwarf;
Whereof the dwarf lagged latest, and the knight
Had vizor up, and showed a youthful face,
Imperious, and of haughtiest lineaments.
And Guinevere, not mindful of his face
In the King's hall, desired his name, and sent
Her maiden to demand it of the dwarf;
Who being vicious, old and irritable,
And doubling all his master's vice of pride,
Made answer sharply that she should not know.
'Then will I ask it of himself,' she said.
'Nay, by my faith, thou shalt not,' cried the dwarf;
'Thou art not worthy even to speak of him;'
And when she put her horse toward the knight,
Struck at her with his whip, and she returned
Indignant to the Queen; whereat Geraint
Exclaiming, 'Surely I will learn the name,'
Made sharply to the dwarf, and asked it of him,
Who answered as before; and when the Prince
Had put his horse in motion toward the knight,
Struck at him with his whip, and cut his cheek.
The Prince's blood spirted upon the scarf,
Dyeing it; and his quick, instinctive hand
Caught at the hilt, as to abolish him:
But he, from his exceeding manfulness
And pure nobility of temperament,
Wroth to be wroth at such a worm, refrained
From even a word, and so returning said:
'I will avenge this insult, noble Queen,
Done in your maiden's person to yourself:
And I will track this vermin to their earths:
For though I ride unarmed, I do not doubt
To find, at some place I shall come at, arms
On loan, or else for pledge; and, being found,
Then will I fight him, and will break his pride,
And on the third day will again be here,
So that I be not fallen in fight.  Farewell.'
'Farewell, fair Prince,' answered the stately Queen.
'Be prosperous in this journey, as in all;
And may you light on all things that you love,
And live to wed with her whom first you love:
But ere you wed with any, bring your bride,
And I, were she the daughter of a king,
Yea, though she were a beggar from the hedge,
Will clothe her for her bridals like the sun.'
And Prince Geraint, now thinking that he heard
The noble hart at bay, now the far horn,
A little vext at losing of the hunt,
A little at the vile occasion, rode,
By ups and downs, through many a grassy glade
And valley, with fixt eye following the three.
At last they issued from the world of wood,
And climbed upon a fair and even ridge,
And showed themselves against the sky, and sank.
And thither there came Geraint, and underneath
Beheld the long street of a little town
In a long valley, on one side whereof,
White from the mason's hand, a fortress rose;
And on one side a castle in decay,
Beyond a bridge that spanned a dry ravine:
And out of town and valley came a noise
As of a broad brook o'er a shingly bed
Brawling, or like a clamour of the rooks
At distance, ere they settle for the night.
And onward to the fortress rode the three,
And entered, and were lost behind the walls.
'So,' thought Geraint, 'I have tracked him to his earth.'
And down the long street riding wearily,
Found every hostel full, and everywhere
Was hammer laid to hoof, and the hot hiss
And bustling whistle of the youth who scoured
His master's armour; and of such a one
He asked, 'What means the tumult in the town?'
Who told him, scouring still, 'The sparrow-hawk!'
Then riding close behind an ancient churl,
Who, smitten by the dusty sloping beam,
Went sweating underneath a sack of corn,
Asked yet once more what meant the hubbub here?
Who answered gruffly, 'Ugh! the sparrow-hawk.'
Then riding further past an armourer's,
Who, with back turned, and bowed above his work,
Sat riveting a helmet on his knee,
He put the self-same query, but the man
Not turning round, nor looking at him, said:
'Friend, he that labours for the sparrow-hawk
Has little time for idle questioners.'
Whereat Geraint flashed into sudden spleen:
'A thousand pips eat up your sparrow-hawk!
Tits, wrens, and all winged nothings peck him dead!
Ye think the rustic cackle of your bourg
The murmur of the world!  What is it to me?
O wretched set of sparrows, one and all,
Who pipe of nothing but of sparrow-hawks!
Speak, if ye be not like the rest, hawk-mad,
Where can I get me harbourage for the night?
And arms, arms, arms to fight my enemy?  Speak!'
Whereat the armourer turning all amazed
And seeing one so gay in purple silks,
Came forward with the helmet yet in hand
And answered, 'Pardon me, O stranger knight;
We hold a tourney here tomorrow morn,
And there is scantly time for half the work.
Arms? truth! I know not:  all are wanted here.
Harbourage? truth, good truth, I know not, save,
It may be, at Earl Yniol's, o'er the bridge
Yonder.'  He spoke and fell to work again.
Then rode Geraint, a little spleenful yet,
Across the bridge that spanned the dry ravine.
There musing sat the hoary-headed Earl,
(His dress a suit of frayed magnificence,
Once fit for feasts of ceremony) and said:
'Whither, fair son?' to whom Geraint replied,
'O friend, I seek a harbourage for the night.'
Then Yniol, 'Enter therefore and partake
The slender entertainment of a house
Once rich, now poor, but ever open-doored.'
'Thanks, venerable friend,' replied Geraint;
'So that ye do not serve me sparrow-hawks
For supper, I will enter, I will eat
With all the passion of a twelve hours' fast.'
Then sighed and smiled the hoary-headed Earl,
And answered, 'Graver cause than yours is mine
To curse this hedgerow thief, the sparrow-hawk:
But in, go in; for save yourself desire it,
We will not touch upon him even in jest.'
Then rode Geraint into the castle court,
His charger trampling many a prickly star
Of sprouted thistle on the broken stones.
He looked and saw that all was ruinous.
Here stood a shattered archway plumed with fern;
And here had fallen a great part of a tower,
Whole, like a crag that tumbles from the cliff,
And like a crag was gay with wilding flowers:
And high above a piece of turret stair,
Worn by the feet that now were silent, wound
Bare to the sun, and monstrous ivy-stems
Claspt the gray walls with hairy-fibred arms,
And sucked the joining of the stones, and looked
A knot, beneath, of snakes, aloft, a grove.
And while he waited in the castle court,
The voice of Enid, Yniol's daughter, rang
Clear through the open casement of the hall,
Singing; and as the sweet voice of a bird,
Heard by the lander in a lonely isle,
Moves him to think what kind of bird it is
That sings so delicately clear, and make
Conjecture of the plumage and the form;
So the sweet voice of Enid moved Geraint;
And made him like a man abroad at morn
When first the liquid note beloved of men
Comes flying over many a windy wave
To Britain, and in April suddenly
Breaks from a coppice gemmed with green and red,
And he suspends his converse with a friend,
Or it may be the labour of his hands,
To think or say, 'There is the nightingale;'
So fared it with Geraint, who thought and said,
'Here, by God's grace, is the one voice for me.'
It chanced the song that Enid sang was one
Of Fortune and her wheel, and Enid sang:
'Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel and lower the proud;
Turn thy wild wheel through sunshine, storm, and cloud;
Thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.
'Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel with smile or frown;
With that wild wheel we go not up or down;
Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.
'Smile and we smile, the lords of many lands;
Frown and we smile, the lords of our own hands;
For man is man and master of his fate.
'Turn, turn thy wheel above the staring crowd;
Thy wheel and thou are shadows in the cloud;
Thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.'
'Hark, by the bird's song ye may learn the nest,'
Said Yniol; 'enter quickly.'  Entering then,
Right o'er a mount of newly-fallen stones,
The dusky-raftered many-cobwebbed hall,
He found an ancient dame in dim brocade;
And near her, like a blossom vermeil-white,
That lightly breaks a faded flower-sheath,
Moved the fair Enid, all in faded silk,
Her daughter.  In a moment thought Geraint,
'Here by God's rood is the one maid for me.'
But none spake word except the hoary Earl:
'Enid, the good knight's horse stands in the court;
Take him to stall, and give him corn, and then
Go to the town and buy us flesh and wine;
And we will make us merry as we may.
Our hoard is little, but our hearts are great.'
He spake:  the Prince, as Enid past him, fain
To follow, strode a stride, but Yniol caught
His purple scarf, and held, and said, 'Forbear!
Rest! the good house, though ruined, O my son,
Endures not that her guest should serve himself.'
And reverencing the custom of the house
Geraint, from utter courtesy, forbore.
So Enid took his charger to the stall;
And after went her way across the bridge,
And reached the town, and while the Prince and Earl
Yet spoke together, came again with one,
A youth, that following with a costrel bore
The means of goodly welcome, flesh and wine.
And Enid brought sweet cakes to make them cheer,
And in her veil enfolded, manchet bread.
And then, because their hall must also serve
For kitchen, boiled the flesh, and spread the board,
And stood behind, and waited on the three.
And seeing her so sweet and serviceable,
Geraint had longing in him evermore
To stoop and kiss the tender little thumb,
That crost the trencher as she laid it down:
But after all had eaten, then Geraint,
For now the wine made summer in his veins,
Let his eye rove in following, or rest
On Enid at her lowly handmaid-work,
Now here, now there, about the dusky hall;
Then suddenly addrest the hoary Earl:
'Fair Host and Earl, I pray your courtesy;
This sparrow-hawk, what is he? tell me of him.
His name? but no, good faith, I will not have it:
For if he be the knight whom late I saw
Ride into that new fortress by your town,
White from the mason's hand, then have I sworn
From his own lips to have it--I am Geraint
Of Devon--for this morning when the Queen
Sent her own maiden to demand the name,
His dwarf, a vicious under-shapen thing,
Struck at her with his whip, and she returned
Indignant to the Queen; and then I swore
That I would track this caitiff to his hold,
And fight and break his pride, and have it of him.
And all unarmed I rode, and thought to find
Arms in your town, where all the men are mad;
They take the rustic murmur of their bourg
For the great wave that echoes round the world;
They would not hear me speak:  but if ye know
Where I can light on arms, or if yourself
Should have them, tell me, seeing I have sworn
That I will break his pride and learn his name,
Avenging this great insult done the Queen.'
Then cried Earl Yniol, 'Art thou he indeed,
Geraint, a name far-sounded among men
For noble deeds? and truly I, when first
I saw you moving by me on the bridge,
Felt ye were somewhat, yea, and by your state
And presence might have guessed you one of those
That eat in Arthur's hall in Camelot.
Nor speak I now from foolish flattery;
For this dear child hath often heard me praise
Your feats of arms, and often when I paused
Hath asked again, and ever loved to hear;
So grateful is the noise of noble deeds
To noble hearts who see but acts of wrong:
O never yet had woman such a pair
Of suitors as this maiden:  first Limours,
A creature wholly given to brawls and wine,
Drunk even when he wooed; and be he dead
I know not, but he past to the wild land.
The second was your foe, the sparrow-hawk,
My curse, my nephew--I will not let his name
Slip from my lips if I can help it--he,
When that I knew him fierce and turbulent
Refused her to him, then his pride awoke;
And since the proud man often is the mean,
He sowed a slander in the common ear,
Affirming that his father left him gold,
And in my charge, which was not rendered to him;
Bribed with large promises the men who served
About my person, the more easily
Because my means were somewhat broken into
Through open doors and hospitality;
Raised my own town against me in the night
Before my Enid's birthday, sacked my house;
From mine own earldom foully ousted me;
Built that new fort to overawe my friends,
For truly there are those who love me yet;
And keeps me in this ruinous castle here,
Where doubtless he would put me soon to death,
But that his pride too much despises me:
And I myself sometimes despise myself;
For I have let men be, and have their way;
Am much too gentle, have not used my power:
Nor know I whether I be very base
Or very manful, whether very wise
Or very foolish; only this I know,
That whatsoever evil happen to me,
I seem to suffer nothing heart or limb,
But can endure it all most patiently.'
'Well said, true heart,' replied Geraint, 'but arms,
That if the sparrow-hawk, this nephew, fight
In next day's tourney I may break his pride.'
And Yniol answered, 'Arms, indeed, but old
And rusty, old and rusty, Prince Geraint,
Are mine, and therefore at thy asking, thine.
But in this tournament can no man tilt,
Except the lady he loves best be there.
Two forks are fixt into the meadow ground,
And over these is placed a silver wand,
And over that a golden sparrow-hawk,
The prize of beauty for the fairest there.
And this, what knight soever be in field
Lays claim to for the lady at his side,
And tilts with my good nephew thereupon,
Who being apt at arms and big of bone
Has ever won it for the lady with him,
And toppling over all antagonism
Has earned himself the name of sparrow-hawk.'
But thou, that hast no lady, canst not fight.'
To whom Geraint with eyes all bright replied,
Leaning a little toward him, 'Thy leave!
Let ME lay lance in rest, O noble host,
For this dear child, because I never saw,
Though having seen all beauties of our time,
Nor can see elsewhere, anything so fair.
And if I fall her name will yet remain
Untarnished as before; but if I live,
So aid me Heaven when at mine uttermost,
As I will make her truly my true wife.'
Then, howsoever patient, Yniol's heart
Danced in his bosom, seeing better days,
And looking round he saw not Enid there,
(Who hearing her own name had stolen away)
But that old dame, to whom full tenderly
And folding all her hand in his he said,
'Mother, a maiden is a tender thing,
And best by her that bore her understood.
Go thou to rest, but ere thou go to rest
Tell her, and prove her heart toward the Prince.'
So spake the kindly-hearted Earl, and she
With frequent smile and nod departing found,
Half disarrayed as to her rest, the girl;
Whom first she kissed on either cheek, and then
On either shining shoulder laid a hand,
And kept her off and gazed upon her face,
And told them all their converse in the hall,
Proving her heart:  but never light and shade
Coursed one another more on open ground
Beneath a troubled heaven, than red and pale
Across the face of Enid hearing her;
While slowly falling as a scale that falls,
When weight is added only grain by grain,
Sank her sweet head upon her gentle breast;
Nor did she lift an eye nor speak a word,
Rapt in the fear and in the wonder of it;
So moving without answer to her rest
She found no rest, and ever failed to draw
The quiet night into her blood, but lay
Contemplating her own unworthiness;
And when the pale and bloodless east began
To quicken to the sun, arose, and raised
Her mother too, and hand in hand they moved
Down to the meadow where the jousts were held,
And waited there for Yniol and Geraint.
And thither came the twain, and when Geraint
Beheld her first in field, awaiting him,
He felt, were she the prize of bodily force,
Himself beyond the rest pushing could move
The chair of Idris.  Yniol's rusted arms
Were on his princely person, but through these
Princelike his bearing shone; and errant knights
And ladies came, and by and by the town
Flowed in, and settling circled all the lists.
And there they fixt the forks into the ground,
And over these they placed the silver wand,
And over that the golden sparrow-hawk.
Then Yniol's nephew, after trumpet blown,
Spake to the lady with him and proclaimed,
'Advance and take, as fairest of the fair,
What I these two years past have won for thee,
The prize of beauty.'  Loudly spake the Prince,
'Forbear:  there is a worthier,' and the knight
With some surprise and thrice as much disdain
Turned, and beheld the four, and all his face
Glowed like the heart of a great fire at Yule,
So burnt he was with passion, crying out,
'Do battle for it then,' no more; and thrice
They clashed together, and thrice they brake their spears.
Then each, dishorsed and drawing, lashed at each
So often and with such blows, that all the crowd
Wondered, and now and then from distant walls
There came a clapping as of phantom hands.
So twice they fought, and twice they breathed, and still
The dew of their great labour, and the blood
Of their strong bodies, flowing, drained their force.
But either's force was matched till Yniol's cry,
'Remember that great insult done the Queen,'
Increased Geraint's, who heaved his blade aloft,
And cracked the helmet through, and bit the bone,
And felled him, and set foot upon his breast,
And said, 'Thy name?'  To whom the fallen man
Made answer, groaning, 'Edyrn, son of Nudd!
Ashamed am I that I should tell it thee.
My pride is broken:  men have seen my fall.'
'Then, Edyrn, son of Nudd,' replied Geraint,
'These two things shalt thou do, or else thou diest.
First, thou thyself, with damsel and with dwarf,
Shalt ride to Arthur's court, and coming there,
Crave pardon for that insult done the Queen,
And shalt abide her judgment on it; next,
Thou shalt give back their earldom to thy kin.
These two things shalt thou do, or thou shalt die.'
And Edyrn answered, 'These things will I do,
For I have never yet been overthrown,
And thou hast overthrown me, and my pride
Is broken down, for Enid sees my fall!'
And rising up, he rode to Arthur's court,
And there the Queen forgave him easily.
And being young, he changed and came to loathe
His crime of traitor, slowly drew himself
Bright from his old dark life, and fell at last
In the great battle fighting for the King.
But when the third day from the hunting-morn
Made a low splendour in the world, and wings
Moved in her ivy, Enid, for she lay
With her fair head in the dim-yellow light,
Among the dancing shadows of the birds,
Woke and bethought her of her promise given
No later than last eve to Prince Geraint--
So bent he seemed on going the third day,
He would not leave her, till her promise given--
To ride with him this morning to the court,
And there be made known to the stately Queen,
And there be wedded with all ceremony.
At this she cast her eyes upon her dress,
And thought it never yet had looked so mean.
For as a leaf in mid-November is
To what it is in mid-October, seemed
The dress that now she looked on to the dress
She looked on ere the coming of Geraint.
And still she looked, and still the terror grew
Of that strange bright and dreadful thing, a court,
All staring at her in her faded silk:
And softly to her own sweet heart she said:
'This noble prince who won our earldom back,
So splendid in his acts and his attire,
Sweet heaven, how much I shall discredit him!
Would he could tarry with us here awhile,
But being so beholden to the Prince,
It were but little grace in any of us,
Bent as he seemed on going this third day,
To seek a second favour at his hands.
Yet if he could but tarry a day or two,
Myself would work eye dim, and finger lame,
Far liefer than so much discredit him.'
And Enid fell in longing for a dress
All branched and flowered with gold, a costly gift
Of her good mother, given her on the night
Before her birthday, three sad years ago,
That night of fire, when Edyrn sacked their house,
And scattered all they had to all the winds:
For while the mother showed it, and the two
Were turning and admiring it, the work
To both appeared so costly, rose a cry
That Edyrn's men were on them, and they fled
With little save the jewels they had on,
Which being sold and sold had bought them bread:
And Edyrn's men had caught them in their flight,
And placed them in this ruin; and she wished
The Prince had found her in her ancient home;
Then let her fancy flit across the past,
And roam the goodly places that she knew;
And last bethought her how she used to watch,
Near that old home, a pool of golden carp;
And one was patched and blurred and lustreless
Among his burnished brethren of the pool;
And half asleep she made comparison
Of that and these to her own faded self
And the gay court, and fell asleep again;
And dreamt herself was such a faded form
Among her burnished sisters of the pool;
But this was in the garden of a king;
And though she lay dark in the pool, she knew
That all was bright; that all about were birds
Of sunny plume in gilded trellis-work;
That all the turf was rich in plots that looked
Each like a garnet or a turkis in it;
And lords and ladies of the high court went
In silver tissue talking things of state;
And children of the King in cloth of gold
Glanced at the doors or gamboled down the walks;
And while she thought 'They will not see me,' came
A stately queen whose name was Guinevere,
And all the children in their cloth of gold
Ran to her, crying, 'If we have fish at all
Let them be gold; and charge the gardeners now
To pick the faded creature from the pool,
And cast it on the mixen that it die.'
And therewithal one came and seized on her,
And Enid started waking, with her heart
All overshadowed by the foolish dream,
And lo! it was her mother grasping her
To get her well awake; and in her hand
A suit of bright apparel, which she laid
Flat on the couch, and spoke exultingly:
'See here, my child, how fresh the colours look,
How fast they hold like colours of a shell
That keeps the wear and polish of the wave.
Why not?  It never yet was worn, I trow:
Look on it, child, and tell me if ye know it.'
And Enid looked, but all confused at first,
Could scarce divide it from her foolish dream:
Then suddenly she knew it and rejoiced,
And answered, 'Yea, I know it; your good gift,
So sadly lost on that unhappy night;
Your own good gift!'  'Yea, surely,' said the dame,
'And gladly given again this happy morn.
For when the jousts were ended yesterday,
Went Yniol through the town, and everywhere
He found the sack and plunder of our house
All scattered through the houses of the town;
And gave command that all which once was ours
Should now be ours again:  and yester-eve,
While ye were talking sweetly with your Prince,
Came one with this and laid it in my hand,
For love or fear, or seeking favour of us,
Because we have our earldom back again.
And yester-eve I would not tell you of it,
But kept it for a sweet surprise at morn.
Yea, truly is it not a sweet surprise?
For I myself unwillingly have worn
My faded suit, as you, my child, have yours,
And howsoever patient, Yniol his.
Ah, dear, he took me from a goodly house,
With store of rich apparel, sumptuous fare,
And page, and maid, and squire, and seneschal,
And pastime both of hawk and hound, and all
That appertains to noble maintenance.
Yea, and he brought me to a goodly house;
But since our fortune swerved from sun to shade,
And all through that young traitor, cruel need
Constrained us, but a better time has come;
So clothe yourself in this, that better fits
Our mended fortunes and a Prince's bride:
For though ye won the prize of fairest fair,
And though I heard him call you fairest fair,
Let never maiden think, however fair,
She is not fairer in new clothes than old.
And should some great court-lady say, the Prince
Hath picked a ragged-robin from the hedge,
And like a madman brought her to the court,
Then were ye shamed, and, worse, might shame the Prince
To whom we are beholden; but I know,
That when my dear child is set forth at her best,
That neither court nor country, though they sought
Through all the provinces like those of old
That lighted on Queen Esther, has her match.'
Here ceased the kindly mother out of breath;
And Enid listened brightening as she lay;
Then, as the white and glittering star of morn
Parts from a bank of snow, and by and by
Slips into golden cloud, the maiden rose,
And left her maiden couch, and robed herself,
Helped by the mother's careful hand and eye,
Without a mirror, in the gorgeous gown;
Who, after, turned her daughter round, and said,
She never yet had seen her half so fair;
And called her like that maiden in the tale,
Whom Gwydion made by glamour out of flowers
And sweeter than the bride of Cassivelaun,
Flur, for whose love the Roman Csar first
Invaded Britain, 'But we beat him back,
As this great Prince invaded us, and we,
Not beat him back, but welcomed him with joy
And I can scarcely ride with you to court,
For old am I, and rough the ways and wild;
But Yniol goes, and I full oft shall dream
I see my princess as I see her now,
Clothed with my gift, and gay among the gay.'
But while the women thus rejoiced, Geraint
Woke where he slept in the high hall, and called
For Enid, and when Yniol made report
Of that good mother making Enid gay
In such apparel as might well beseem
His princess, or indeed the stately Queen,
He answered:  'Earl, entreat her by my love,
Albeit I give no reason but my wish,
That she ride with me in her faded silk.'
Yniol with that hard message went; it fell
Like flaws in summer laying lusty corn:
For Enid, all abashed she knew not why,
Dared not to glance at her good mother's face,
But silently, in all obedience,
Her mother silent too, nor helping her,
Laid from her limbs the costly-broidered gift,
And robed them in her ancient suit again,
And so descended.  Never man rejoiced
More than Geraint to greet her thus attired;
And glancing all at once as keenly at her
As careful robins eye the delver's toil,
Made her cheek burn and either eyelid fall,
But rested with her sweet face satisfied;
Then seeing cloud upon the mother's brow,
Her by both hands she caught, and sweetly said,
'O my new mother, be not wroth or grieved
At thy new son, for my petition to her.
When late I left Caerleon, our great Queen,
In words whose echo lasts, they were so sweet,
Made promise, that whatever bride I brought,
Herself would clothe her like the sun in Heaven.
Thereafter, when I reached this ruined hall,
Beholding one so bright in dark estate,
I vowed that could I gain her, our fair Queen,
No hand but hers, should make your Enid burst
Sunlike from cloud--and likewise thought perhaps,
That service done so graciously would bind
The two together; fain I would the two
Should love each other:  how can Enid find
A nobler friend?  Another thought was mine;
I came among you here so suddenly,
That though her gentle presence at the lists
Might well have served for proof that I was loved,
I doubted whether daughter's tenderness,
Or easy nature, might not let itself
Be moulded by your wishes for her weal;
Or whether some false sense in her own self
Of my contrasting brightness, overbore
Her fancy dwelling in this dusky hall;
And such a sense might make her long for court
And all its perilous glories:  and I thought,
That could I someway prove such force in her
Linked with such love for me, that at a word
(No reason given her) she could cast aside
A splendour dear to women, new to her,
And therefore dearer; or if not so new,
Yet therefore tenfold dearer by the power
Of intermitted usage; then I felt
That I could rest, a rock in ebbs and flows,
Fixt on her faith.  Now, therefore, I do rest,
A prophet certain of my prophecy,
That never shadow of mistrust can cross
Between us.  Grant me pardon for my thoughts:
And for my strange petition I will make
Amends hereafter by some gaudy-day,
When your fair child shall wear your costly gift
Beside your own warm hearth, with, on her knees,
Who knows? another gift of the high God,
Which, maybe, shall have learned to lisp you thanks.'
He spoke:  the mother smiled, but half in tears,
Then brought a mantle down and wrapt her in it,
And claspt and kissed her, and they rode away.
Now thrice that morning Guinevere had climbed
The giant tower, from whose high crest, they say,
Men saw the goodly hills of Somerset,
And white sails flying on the yellow sea;
But not to goodly hill or yellow sea
Looked the fair Queen, but up the vale of Usk,
By the flat meadow, till she saw them come;
And then descending met them at the gates,
Embraced her with all welcome as a friend,
And did her honour as the Prince's bride,
And clothed her for her bridals like the sun;
And all that week was old Caerleon gay,
For by the hands of Dubric, the high saint,
They twain were wedded with all ceremony.
And this was on the last year's Whitsuntide.
But Enid ever kept the faded silk,
Remembering how first he came on her,
Drest in that dress, and how he loved her in it,
And all her foolish fears about the dress,
And all his journey toward her, as himself
Had told her, and their coming to the court.
And now this morning when he said to her,
'Put on your worst and meanest dress,' she found
And took it, and arrayed herself therein.
THE ARGUMENT
RINTRAH roars and shakes his
fires in the burdenM air,
Hungry clouds swag on the deep.
Once meek, and in a perilous path
The just man kept his course along
The Vale of Death.
Roses are planted where thorns grow,
And on the barren heath
Sing the honey bees.
Then the perilous path was planted,
And a river and a spring
On every cliff and tomb;
5
THE MARRIAGE OF
And on the bleached bones
Red clay brought forth:
Till the villain left the paths of ease
To walk in perilous paths, and drive
The just man into barren climes.
Now the sneaking serpent walks
In mild humility ;
And the just man rages in the wilds
Where Uons roam.
Rintrah roars and shakes his fires in
the burdened air,
Hungry clouds swag on the deep.
As a new heaven is begun, and it is
now thirty-three years since its advent,
the Eternal Hell revives. And lo!
Swedenborg is the angel sitting at
the tomb: his writings are the Unen
clothes folded up. Now is the domin-
ion of Edom, and the return of Adam
into Paradise. — See Isaiah xxxiv. and
XXXV. chap.
6
HEAVEN AND HELL
Without contraries is no progres-
sion. Attraction and repulsion, rea-
son and energy, love and hate, are
necessary to human existence.
From these contraries spring what
the religious call Good and Evil.
Good is the passive that obeys reason;
Evil is the active springing from
Energy.
Good is heaven. Evil is hell.
THE MARRIAGE OF
THE VOICE OF THE DEVIL
All Bibles or sacred codes have been
the cause of the following errors : —
1. That man has two real existing
principles, viz., a Body and a Soul.
2. That Energy, called Evil, is alone
from the Body ; and that Reason, called
Good, is alone from the Soul.
3. That God will torment man in
Eternity for following his Energies.
But the following contraries to
these are true : —
1 . Man has no Body distinct from his
Soul. For that called Body is a por-
tion of Soul discerned by the five senses,
the chief inlets of Soul in this age.
2 . Energy is the only life , and is from
the Body; and Reason is the bound
or outward circumference of Energy.
8
HEAVEN AND HELL
3. Energy is Eternal Delight.
Those who restrain desire, do so
because theirs is weak enough to be
restrained; and the restrainer or
reason usurps its place and governs
the unwilling.
And being restrained, it by degrees
becomes passive, till it is only the
shadow of desire.
The history of this is written in
Paradise Lost, and the Governor or
Reason is called Messiah.
And the original Archangel or pos-
sessor of the command of the heavenly
host is called the Devil, or Satan, and
his children are called Sin and Death.
But in the book of Job, Milton's
Messiah is called Satan.
For this history has been adopted by
both parties.
It indeed appeared to Reason as if
9
THE MARRIAGE OF
desire was cast out, but the Devil's
account is, that the Messiah fell, and
formed a heaven of what he stole from
the abyss.
This is shown in the Gospel, where
he prays to the Father to send the
Comforter or desire that Reason may
have ideas to build on, the Jehovah
of the Bible being no other than he
who dwells in flaming fire. Know
that after Christ's death he became
Jehovah.
But in Milton, the Father is Destiny,
the Son a ratio of the five senses, and
the Holy Ghost vacuum !
Note. — The reason Milton wrote
in fetters when he wrote of Angels
and God, and at Uberty when of
Devils and Hell, is because he was
a true poet, and of the Devil's party
without knowing it.
10
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
As I was walking among the fires
of Hell, delighted with the enjoyments
of Genius, which to Angels look like
torment and insanity, I collected some
of their proverbs, thinking that as the
sayings used in a nation mark its
character, so the proverbs of Hell show
the nature of infernal wisdom better
than any description of buildings or
garments.
When I came home, on the abyss
of the five senses, where a flat-sided
steep frowns over the present world, I
saw a mighty Devil folded in black
clouds hovering on the sides of the
rock; with corroding fires he wrote
the following sentence now perceived
by the minds of men, and read by
them on earth : —
II
THE MARRIAGE OF
'How do you know but every bird
that cuts the airy way
Is an immense world of delight,
closed by your senses five?'
12
HEAVEN AND HELL
PROVERBS OF HELL
In seed-time learn, in harvest teach,
in winter enjoy.
Drive your cart and your plough
over the bones of the dead.
The road of excess leads to the
palace of wisdom.
Prudence is a rich ugly old maid
courted by Incapacity.
He who desires, but acts not, breeds
pestilence.
The cut worm forgives the plough.
Dip him in the river who loves
water.
A fool sees not the same tree that a
wise man sees.
He whose face gives no light shall
never become a star.
13
THE MARRIAGE OF
Eternity is in love with the produc-
tions of time.
The busy bee has no time for sor-
row.
The hours of folly are measured by
the clock, but of wisdom no clock can
measure.
All wholesome food is caught with-
out a net or a trap.
Bring out number, weight, and
measure in a year of dearth.
No bird soars too high if he soars
with his own wings.
A dead body revenges not injuries.
The most sublime act is to set an-
other before you.
If the fool would persist in his folly
he would become wise.
Folly is the cloak of knavery.
Shame is Pride's cloak.
14
HEAVEN AND HELL
Prisons are built with stones of law,
brothels with bricks of religion.
The pride of the peacock is the
glory of God.
The lust of the goat is the bounty
of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom
of God.
The nakedness of woman is the
work of God.
Excess of sorrow laughs, excess of
joy weeps.
The roaring of lions, the howling of
wolves, the raging of the stormy sea,
and the destructive sword, are por-
tions of Eternity too great for the eye
of man.
The fox condemns the trap, not
himself.
Joys impregnate, sorrows bring
forth.
15
THE MARRIAGE OF
Let man wear the fell of the lion,
woman the fleece of the sheep.
The bird a nest, the spider a web,
man friendship.
The selfish smiling fool and the
sullen frowning fool shall be both
thought wise that they may be a rod.
What is now proved was once only
imagined.
The rat, the mouse, the fox, the
rabbit watch the roots; the Hon, the
tiger, the horse, the elephant watch
the fruits.
The cistern contains, the fountain
overflows.
One thought fills immensity.
Always be ready to speak your
mind, and a base man will avoid you.
Everything possible to be believed
is an image of truth.
The eagle never lost so much time
z6
HEAVEN AND HELL
as when he submitted to learn of the
crow.
The fox provides for himself, but
God provides for the lion.
Think in the morning, act in the
noon, eat in the evening, sleep in the
night.
He who has suffered you to impose
on him knows you.
As the plough follows words, so
God rewards prayers.
The tigers of wrath are wiser than
the horses of instruction.
Expect poison from the standing
water.
You never know what is enough
unless you know what is more than
enough.
Listen to the fool's reproach; it is a
kingly title.
The eyes of fire, the nostrils of air,
17
THE MARRIAGE OF
the mouth of water, the beard of
earth.
The weak in courage is strong in
cunning.
The apple tree never asks the beech
how he shall grow, nor the lion the
horse how he shall take his prey.
The thankful receiver bears a plenti-
ful harvest.
If others had not been foolish we
should have been so.
The soul of sweet delight can never
be defiled.
When thou seest an eagle, thou
seest a portion of Genius. Lift up thy
head!
As the caterpillar chooses the fairest
leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest
lays his curse on the fairest joys.
To create a little flower is the labour
of ages.
i8
HEAVEN AND HELL
Damn braces; bless relaxes.
The best wine is the oldest, the best
water the newest.
Prayers plough not; praises reap
not; joys laugh not; sorrows weep
not.
The head Sublime, the heart Pathos,
the genitals Beauty, the hands and
feet Proportion.
As the air to a bird, or the sea
to a fish, so is contempt to the con-
temptible.
The crow wished everything was
black; the owl that everything was
white.
Exuberance is Beauty.
If the lion was advised by the fox,
he would be cunning.
Improvement makes straight roads,
but the crooked roads without Improve-
ment are roads of Genius.
19
THE MARRIAGE OF
Sooner murder an infant in its
cradle than nurse unacted desires.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Truth can never be told so as to be
understood and not to be believed.
Enough! or Too much.
The ancient poets animated all sen-
sible objects with Gods or Geniuses,
calling them by the names and adorn-
ing them with properties of woods,
rivers, mountains, lakes, cities, na-
tions, and whatever their enlarged
and numerous senses could perceive.
And particularly they studied the
Genius of each city and country,
placing it under its mental deity. Till
a system was formed, which some
took advantage of and enslaved the
vulgar by attempting to realize or
abstract the mental deities from their
objects. Thus began Priesthood.
20
HEAVEN AND HELL
Choosing forms of worship from
poetic tales. And at length they pro-
nounced that the Gods had ordered
such things. Thus men forgot that
all deities reside in the human breast.
21
THE MARRIAGE OF
A MEMORABLE FANCY
The Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel
dined with me, and I asked them how
they dared so roundly to assert that
God spoke to them, and whether they
did not think at the time that they
would be misunderstood, and so be
the cause of imposition.
Isaiah answered: 'I saw no God,
nor heard any, in a finite organical
perception: but my senses discovered
the infinite in everything; and as I
was then persuaded, and remained
confirmed, that the voice of honest
indignation is the voice of God, I cared
not for consequences, but wrote.'*
Then I asked: 'Does a firm per-
suasion that a thing is so, make it
so?'
He replied: 'All poets believe that
22
HEAVEN AND HELL
it does, and in ages of imagination
this firm persuasion removed moun-
tains; but many are not capable of a
firm persuasion of anything.'
Then Ezekiel said : ' The philosophy
of the East taught the first principles
of human perception; some nations
held one principle for the origin, and
some another. We of Israel taught
that the Poetic Genius (as you now
call it) was the first principle, and all
the others merely derivative, which
was the cause of our despising the
Priests and Philosophers of other
countries, and prophesying that all
Gods would at last be proved to origi-
nate in ours, and to be the tributaries
of the Poetic Genius. It was this that
our great poet King David desired so
fervently, and invokes so pathetically,
saying by this he conquers enemies
and governs kingdoms; and we so
loved our Ggd that we cursed in His
i3
THE MARRIAGE OF
name all the deities of surrounding
nations, and asserted that they had
rebelled. From these opinions the
vulgar came to think that all nations
would at last be subject to the Jews.
'This,' said he, 'like all firm per-
suasions, is come to pass, for all
nations believe the Jews' code, and
worship the Jews' God; and what
greater subjection can be?'
I heard this with some wonder, and
must confess my own conviction.
After dinner I asked Isaiah to favour
the world with his lost works; he said
none of equal value was lost. Ezekiel
said the same of his.
I also asked Isaiah what made him
go naked and barefoot three years.
He answered: 'The same that made
our friend Diogenes the Grecian.'
I then asked Ezekiel why he ate
dung, and lay so long on his right and
24
HEAVEN AND HELL
left side. He answered: 'The desire
of raising other men into a perception
of the infinite. This the North Ameri-
can tribes practise. And is he honest
who resists his genius or conscience,
only for the sake of present ease or
gratification?'
The ancient tradition that the world
will be consumed in fire at the end of
six thousand years is true, as I have
heard from Hell.
For the cherub with his flaming
sword is hereby commanded to leave
his guard at [the] tree of life, and
when he does, the whole creation will
be consumed and appear infinite and
holy, whereas it now appears finite
and corrupt.
This will come to pass by an im-
provement of sensual enjoyment.
But first the notion that man has
25
THE MARRIAGE OF
a body distinct from his soul is to be
expunged; this I shall do by printing
in the infernal method by corrosives,
which in Hell are salutary and medici-
nal, melting apparent surfaces away,
and displaying the infinite which was
hid.
If the doors of perception were
cleansed everything would appear to
man as it is, infinite.
For man has closed himself up, till
he sees all things through narrow
chinks of his cavern.
26
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
I was in a printing-house in Hell,
and saw the method in which knowl-
edge is transmitted from generation
to generation.
In the first chamber was a dragon-
man, clearing away the rubbish from
a cave's mouth; within, a number of
dragons were hollowing the cave.
In the second chamber was a viper
folding round the rock and the cave,
and others adorning it with gold, silver,
and precious stones.
In the third chamber was an eagle
with wings and feathers of air; he
caused the inside of the cave to be
infinite; around were numbers of
eagle-like men, who built palaces in
the immense cliffs.
In the fourth chamber were lions
27
THE MARRIAGE OF
of flaming fire raging around and
melting the metals into living fluids.
In the fifth chamber were unnamed
forms, which cast the metals into the
expanse.
There they were received by men
who occupied the sixth chamber, and
took the forms of books, and were
arranged in libraries.
The Giants who formed this world
into its sensual existence and now
seem to live in it in chains are in
truth the causes of its life and the
sources of all activity, but the chains
are the cunning of weak and tame
minds, which have power to resist
energy, according to the proverb,
'The weak in courage is strong in
cunning.'
Thus one portion of being is the
28
HEAVEN AND HELL
Prolific, the other the Devouring. To
the devourer it seems as if the pro-
ducer was in his chains; but it is not
so, he only takes portions of existence,
and fancies that the whole.
But the Prolific would cease to be
prolific unless the Devourer as a sea
received the excess of his delights.
Some will say, 'Is not God alone
the Prolific?' I answer: 'God only
acts and is in existing beings or
men.'
These two classes of men are always
upon earth, and they should be ene-
mies: whoever tries to reconcile them
seeks to destroy existence.
Religion is an endeavour to recon-
cile the two.
Note. — Jesus Christ did not wish
to unite but to separate them, as in
the parable of sheep and goats; and
29
THE MARRIAGE OF
He says : ' I came not to send peace,
but a sword.'
Messiah, or Satan, or Tempter, was
formerly thought to be one of the
antediluvians who are our Energies.
30
HEAVEN AND HELL
A MEMORABLE FANCY
An Angel came to me and said: '0
pitiable foolish young man! hor-
rible, dreadful state! Consider the
hot burning dungeon thou art prepar-
ing for thyself to all Eternity, to which
thou art going in such career.'
I said : ' Perhaps you will be willing
to show me my eternal lot, and we
will contemplate together upon it, and
see whether your lot or mine is most
desirable.'*
So he took me through a stable, and
through a church, and down into the
church vault, at the end of v/hich was
a mill; through the mill we went, and
came to a cave; down the winding
cavern we groped our tedious way,
till a void boundless as a nether sky
appeared beneath us, and we held by
31
THE MARRIAGE OF
the roots of trees, and hung over this
immensity; but I said: 'If you please,
we will commit ourselves to this void,
and see whether Providence is here
also; if you will not, I will.' But he
answered : ' Do not presume, young
man; but as we here remain, behold
thy lot, which will soon appear when
the darkness passes away.'
So I remained with him sitting in
the twisted root of an oak; he was
suspended in a fungus, which hung
with the head downward into the
deep.
By degrees we beheld the infinite
abyss, fiery as the smoke of a burning
city; beneath us at an immense dis-
tance was the sun, black but shining;
round it were fiery tracks on which
revolved vast spiders, crawling after
their prey, which flew, or rather
swum, in the infinite deep, in the most
32
HEAVEN AND HELL
terrific shapes of animals sprung from
corruption; and the air was full of
them, and seemed composed of them.
These are Devils, and are called powers
of the air. I now asked my com-
panion which was my eternal lot.
He said: 'Between the black and
white spiders.''
But now, from between the black
and white spiders, a cloud and fire
burst and rolled through the deep,
blackening all beneath so that the
nether deep grew black as a sea, and
rolled with a terrible noise. Beneath
us was nothing now to be seen but a
black tempest, till looking East be-
tween the clouds and the waves, we
saw a cataract of blood mixed with
fire, and not many stones' throw from
us appeared and sunk again the scaly
fold of a monstrous serpent. At last
to the East, distant about three degrees,
appeared a fiery crest above the waves ;
33
THE MARRIAGE OF
slowly it reared like a ridge of golden
rocks, till we discovered two globes
of crimson fire, from which the sea
fled away in clouds of smoke; and
now we saw it was the head of Le-
viathan. His forehead was divided
into streaks of green and purple, like
those on a tiger's forehead; soon we
saw his mouth and red gills hang just
above the raging foam, tinging the
black deeps with beams of blood, ad-
vancing toward us with all the fury
of a spiritual existence.
My friend the Angel climbed up
from his station into the mill. I
remained alone, and then this ap-
pearance was no more; but I found
myself sitting on a pleasant bank beside
a river by moonlight, hearing a harper
who sung to the harp; and his theme
was: 'The man who never alters his
opinion is like standing water, and
breeds reptiles of the mind.'
34
HEAVEN AND HELL
But I arose, and sought for the
mill, and there I found my Angel,
who, surprised, asked me how I
escaped.
I answered: 'All that we saw was
owing to your metaphysics; for when
you ran away, I found myself on a
bank by moonlight, hearing a harper.
But now we have seen my eternal
lot, shall I show you yours?' He
laughed at my proposal; but I by
force suddenly caught him in my
arms, and flew Westerly through the
night, till we were elevated above the
earth's shadow; then I flung myself
with him directly into the body of the
sun; here I clothed myself in white,
and taking in my hand Swedenborg*s
volumes, sunk from the glorious clime,
and passed all the planets till we came
to Saturn. Here I stayed to rest, and
then leaped into the void between
Saturn and the fixed stars.
35
THE MARRIAGE OF
'Here,' said I, 'is your lot; in this
space, if space it may be called.'
Soon we saw the stable and the church,
and I took him to the altar and opened
the Bible, and lo! it was a deep pit,
into which I descended, driving the
Angel before me. Soon we saw seven
houses of brick. One we entered. In
it were a number of monkeys, baboons,
and all of that species, chained by the
middle, grinning and snatching at one
another, but withheld by the shortness
of their chains. However, I saw that
they sometimes grew numerous, and
then the weak were caught by the
strong, and with a grinning aspect,
first coupled with and then devoured
by plucking off first one Umb and then
another till the body was left a help-
less trunk; this, after grinning and
kissing it with seeming fondness, they
devoured too. And here and there I
saw one savourily picking the fiesh off
36
HEAVEN AND HELL
his own tail. As the stench terribly
annoyed us both, we went into the
mill; and I in my hand brought the
skeleton of a body, which in the mill
was Aristotle's Analytics.
So the Angel said; 'Thy phantasy
has imposed upon me, and thou ought-
est to be ashamed.'
I answered: 'We impose on one
another, and it is but lost time to con-
verse with you whose works are only
Analytics.'*
'I have always found that Angels
have the vanity to speak of them-
selves as the only wise; this they do
with a confident insolence sprouting
from systematic reasoning.
'Thus Swedenborg boasts that what
he writes is new ; though it is only the
contents or index of already published
books.
37
THE MARRIAGE OF
'A man carried a monkey about
for a show, and because he was a Uttle
wiser than the monkey, grew vain,
and conceived himself as much wiser
than seven men. It is so with
Swedenborg; he shows the folly of
churches, and exposes hypocrites, till
he imagines that all are religious, and
himself the single one on earth that
ever broke a net.
'Now hear a plain fact: Sweden-
borg has not written one new truth.
Now hear another: he has written all
the old falsehoods.
'And now hear the reason: he con-
versed with Angels who are all re-
ligious, and conversed not with Devils
who all hate reUgion, for he was
incapable through his conceited no-
tions.
'Thus Swedenborg's writings are
a recapitulation of all superficial
38
HEAVEN AND HELL
opinions, and an analysis of the more
sublime, but no further.
'Have now another plain fact: any
man of mechanical talents may from
the writings of Paracelsus or Jacob
Behmen produce ten thousand volumes
of equal value with Swedenborg's, and
from those of Dante or Shakespeare an
infinite number.
'But when he has done this, let
him not say that he knows better than
his master, for he only holds a candle
in sunshine.'
39
THE MARRIAGE OF
A MEMORABLE FANCY
Once I saw a Devil in a flame of
fire, who arose before an Angel that
sat on a cloud, and the Devil uttered
these words: 'The worship of God is,
honouring His gifts in other men each
according to his genius, and loving
the greatest men best. Those who
envy or calumniate great men hate
God, for there is no other God.'
The Angel hearing this became
almost blue, but mastering himself he
grew yellow, and at last white-pink
and smiling, and then replied: 'Thou
idolater, is not God One? and is not
He visible in Jesus Christ? and has
not Jesus Christ given His sanction to
the law of ten commandments? and
are not all other men fools, sinners,
and nothings?'
40
HEAVEN AND HELL
The Devil answered: 'Bray a fool
in a mortar with wheat, yet shall not
his folly be beaten out of him. If
Jesus Christ is the greatest man, you
ought to love Him in the greatest
degree. Now hear how He has given
His sanction to the law of ten com-
mandments. Did He not mock at the
Sabbath, and so mock the Sabbath's
God? murder those who were mur-
dered because of Him? turn away the
law from the woman taken in adultery,
steal the labour of others to support
Him? bear false witness when He
omitted making a defence before
Pilate? covet when He prayed for His
disciples, and when He bid them
shake off the dust of their feet against
such as refused to lodge them? I tell
you, no virtue can exist without break-
ing these ten commandments. Jesus
was all virtue, and acted from im-
pulse, not from rules.'
41
THE MARRIAGE OF
When he had so spoken, I beheld
the Angel, who stretched out his arms
embracing the flame of fire, and he
was consumed, and arose as Elijah.
Note. — This Angel, who is now
become a Devil, is my particular
friend; we often read the Bible to-
gether in its infernal or diabolical
sense, which the world shall have if
they behave well.
I have also the Bible of Hell, which
the world shall have whether they
will or no.
One law for the lion and ox is Op-
pression.
42
HEAVEN AND HELL
A SONG OF LIBERTY
1. The Eternal Female groan'd; it
was heard over all the earth:
2. Albion's coast is sick silent; the
American meadows faint.
3. Shadows of prophecy shiver
along by the lakes and the rivers, and
mutter across the ocean. France,
rend down thy dungeon!
4. Golden Spain, burst the barriers
of old Rome !
5. Cast thy keys, Rome, into
the deep — down falling, even to
eternity down falling;
6. And weep!
7. In her trembling hands she took
the new-born terror, howling.
8. On those infinite mountains
of light now barr'd out by the Atlantic
43
THE MARRIAGE OF
sea, the new-born fire stood before the
starry king.
9. Flagg'd with grey-browM snows
and thunderous visages, the jealous
wings wavM over the deep.
10. The speary hand burn'd aloft;
unbuckled was the shield; forth went
the hand of jealousy among the flam-
ing hair, and hurl'd the new-born
wonder through the starry night.
11. The fire, the fire is falling !
12. Look up! look up! citizen
of London, enlarge thy countenance!
O Jew, leave counting gold; return to
thy oil and wine! African, black
African! (Go, winged thought, widen
his forehead.)
13. The fiery limbs, the flaming hair
shot like the sinking sun into the
Western sea.
14. WakM from his eternal sleep,
the hoary element roaring fled away.
44
HEAVEN AND HELL
15. Down rush'd, beating his wings
in vain, the jealous king, his grey-
brow'd councillors, thunderous war-
riors, curl'd veterans, among helms
and shields, and chariots, horses, ele-
phants, banners, castles, slings, and
rocks.
16. Falling, rushing, ruining;
buried in the ruins, on Urthona's
dens.
17. All night beneath the ruins;
then their sullen flames, faded, emerge
round the gloomy king.
18. With thunder and fire, leading
his starry hosts through the waste
wilderness, he promulgates his ten
commandments, glancing his beamy
eyelids over the deep in dark dismay.
19. Where the Son of Fire in his
Eastern cloud, while the Morning
plumes her golden breast,
20. Spuming the clouds written
45
THE MARRIAGE OF
with curses, stamps the stony law to
dust, loosing the eternal horses from
the dens of night, crying: 'Empire is
no more! and now the lion and wolf
shall cease.'
46
HEAVEN AND HELL
CHORUS
Let the Priests of the Raven of
Dawn, no longer in deadly black, with
hoarse note curse the Sons of Joy.
Nor his accepted brethren whom,
tyrant, he calls free, lay the bound or
build the roof. Nor pale religious
lechery call that virginity that wishes,
but acts not !
For everything that lives is holy.
47
'Oh well...why not
...I suppose! '
she said stripping
shyly off her
clothes
'Oh you...dirty little devil! '
he laughed
grabbing her by the calf
as she toppled & fell
on her back & squealed:
'Oh...Heavens! '
a frilly froth of
discarded panties
crawling across
the shag carpet
he fallen to his knees
trousers trapping his ankles
'Jesus! ' he gasped
'Oh Christ...! ' she almost
prayed.
They took each other to the cleaners
(& other misdemeanours)
went all the way
to Hell & back
(going like the clappers)
he beside himself
she all in a flap.
It was...Heaven.
'Oh well...why not
...I suppose! '
she said stripping
shyly off her
clothes
'Oh you...dirty little devil! '
he laughed
grabbing her by the calf
as she toppled & fell
on her back & squealed:
'Oh...Heavens! '
a frilly froth of
discarded panties
crawling across
the shag carpet
he fallen to his knees
trousers trapping his ankles
'Jesus! ' he gasped
'Oh Christ...! ' she almost
prayed.
They took each other to the cleaners
(& other misdemeanours)
went all the way
to Hell & back
(going like the clappers)
he beside himself
she all in a flap.
It was...Heaven
Part the First
King Arthur lives in merry Carleile,
And seemely is to see;
And there with him Queene Guenever,
That bride soe bright of blee.
And there with him Queene Guenever,
That bride soe bright in bowre;
And all his barons about him stoode,
That were both stiffe and stowre.
This king a royale Christmasse kept,
With mirth and princelye cheare;
To him repaired many a knighte,
That came both farre and neare.
And when they were to dinner sette
And cups went freely round:
Before them came a faire damselle,
And knelt upon the ground.
'A boone, a boone, O Kinge Arthure,
I beg a boone of thee;
Avenge me of a carlish knighte,
Who hath shent my love and mee.
'At Tearne-Wadling his castle stands,
Near to that lake so fair,
And proudlye rise the battlements,
And streamers deck the air.
'Noe gentle knighte, nor ladye gay,
May pass that castle-wall,
But from that foule discourteous knighte,
Mishappe will them befalle.
'Hee's twice the size of common men,
Wi' thewes and sinewes stronge,
And on his backe he bears a clubbe,
That is both thicke and longe.
'This grimme barone 'twas our harde happe
But yester morne to see;
When to his bowre he bare my love,
And sore misused mee.
'And when I told him King Arthure
As lyttle shold him spare;
Goe tell, sayd hee, that cuckold kinge
To meete mee if he dare.'
Upp then sterted King Arthure,
And sware by hille and dale,
He ne'er wolde quitt that grimme barone,
Till he had made him quail.
'Goe fetch my sword Excalibar,
Goe saddle me my steede;
Nowe, by my faye, that grimme barone
Shall rue this ruthfulle deede.'
And when he came to Tearne-Wadlinge
Benethe the castle walle:
'Come forth, come forth, thou proude barone,
Or yield thyself my thralle.'
On magicke grounde that castle stoode,
And fenc'd with many a spell:
Noe valiant knighte could tread thereon,
But straite his courage felle.
Forth then rush'd that carlish knight,
King Arthur felte the charme:
His sturdy sinewes lost their strengthe,
Downe sunke his feeble arme.
'Nowe yield thee, yield thee, Kinge Arthure,
Now yield thee unto mee;
Or fighte with mee, or lose thy lande,
Noe better termes maye bee:
'Unlesse thou sweare upon the rood,
And promise on thy faye,
Here to returne to Tearne-Wadling,
Upon the new-yeare's day,
'And bringe me worde what thing it is
All women moste desyre:
This is thy ransome, Arthur,' he sayes,
'Ile have noe other hyre.'
King Arthur then helde up his hande,
And sware upon his faye,
Then tooke his leave of the grimme barone,
And faste hee rode awaye.
And he rode east, and he rode west,
And did of all inquyre,
What thing it is all women crave,
And what they most desyre.
Some told him riches, pompe, or state;
Some rayment fine and brighte;
Some told him mirthe; some flatterye;
And some a jollye knighte.
In letters all King Arthur wrote,
And seal'd them with his ringe:
But still his minde was helde in doubte,
Each tolde a different thinge.
As ruthfulle he rode over a more,
He saw a ladye, sette
Betweene an oke and a greene holleye,
All clad in red scarlette.
Her nose was crookt and turned outwarde,
Her chin stoode all awrye;
And where as sholde have been her mouthe,
Lo! there was set her eye:
Her haires, like serpents, clung aboute
Her cheekes of deadlye hewe:
A worse-form'd ladye than she was,
No man mote ever viewe.
To hall the king in seemelye sorte
This ladye was fulle faine:
But King Arthure, all sore amaz'd,
No aunswere made againe.
'What wight art thou,' the ladye sayd,
'That wilt not speake to mee;
Sir, I may chance to ease thy paine,
Though I bee foule to see.'
'If thou wilt ease my paine,' he sayd,
'And helpe me in my neede,
Ask what thou wilt, thou grimme ladye,
And it shall bee thy meede.'
'O sweare mee this upon the roode,
And promise on thy faye;
And here the secrette I will telle,
That shall thy ransome paye.'
King Arthur promis'd on his faye,
And sare upon the roode;
The secrette then the ladye told,
As lightlye well shee cou'de.
'Now this shall be my paye, Sir King,
And this my guerdon bee,
That some yong, fair and courtlye knight
Thou bringe to marrye mee.'
Fast then pricked King Arthure
Ore hille, and dale, and downe:
And soone he founde the barone's bowre,
And soone the grimme baroune.
He kare his clubbe upon his backe,
Hee stoode both stiffe and stronge;
And, when he had the letters reade,
Awaye the lettres flunge.
'Nowe yielde thee, Arthur, and thy lands,
All forfeit unto mee;
For this is not thy paye, Sir King,
Nor may thy ransome bee.'
'Yet hold thy hand, thou proud barone,
I pray thee hold thy hand;
And give mee leave to speake once more
In reskewe of my land.
'This morne, as I came over a more,
I saw a ladye, sette
Betwene an oke and a greene holleye,
All clad in red scarlette.
'Shee sayes, all women will have their wille,
This is their chief desyre;
Now yield, as thou art a barone true,
That I have payd mine hyre.'
'An earlye vengeaunce light on her!'
The carlish baron swore:
'Shee was my sister tolde thee this,
And shee's a mishapen whore.
'But here I will make mine avowe,
To do her as ill a turne:
For an ever I may that foule theefe gette,
In a fyre I will her burne.'
Part the Second
Homewarde pricked King Arthure,
And a wearye man was hee;
And soone he mette Queene Guenever,
That bride so bright of blee.
'What newes! what newes! thou noble king,
Howe, Arthur, hast thou sped?
Where has thou hung the carlish knighte?
And where bestow'd his head?'
'The carlish knight is safe for mee,
And free fro mortal harme:
On magicke grounde his castle stands,
And fenc'd with many a charme.
'To bow to him I was fulle faine,
And yielde mee to his hand:
And but for a lothly ladye, there
I sholde have lost my land.
'And nowe this fills my hearte with woe,
And sorrowe of my life;
I swore a yonge and courtlye knight
Shold marry her to his wife.'
Then bespake him Sir Gawaine,
That was ever a gentle knighte:
'That lothly ladye I will wed;
Therefore be merrye and lighte.'
'Now naye, nowe naye, good Sir Gawaine,
My sister's sonne yee bee;
This lothlye ladye's all too grimme,
And all too foule for yee.
'Her nose is crookt and turn'd outwarde,
Her chin stands all awrye;
A worse form'd ladye than shee is
Was never seen with eye.'
'What though her chin stand all awrye,
And shee be foule to see;
I'll marry her, unkle, for thy sake,
And I'll thy ransome bee.'
'Nowe thankes, nowe thankes, good Sir Gawaine,
And a blessing thee betyde!
To-morrow we'll have knights and squires,
And wee'll goe fetch thy bride.
'And wee'll have hawkes and wee'll have houndes
To cover our intent;
And wee'll away to the greene forest,
As wee a hunting went.'
Sir Lancelot, Sir Stephen bolde,
They rode with them that daye;
And foremoste of the companye
There rode the stewarde Kaye:
Soe did Sir Banier and Sir Bore,
And eke Sir Garratte keene;
Sir Tristram too, that gentle knight,
To the forest freshe and greene.
And when they came to the greene forrest,
Beneathe a faire holley tree,
There sate that ladye in red scarlette,
That unseemlye was to see.
Sir Kay beheld that lady's face,
And looked upon her sweere;
'Whoever kisses that ladye,' he sayes,
'Of his kisse he stands in feare.'
Sir Kay beheld that ladye againe,
And looked upon her snout;
'Whoever kisses that ladye,' he sayes,
'Of his kisse he stands in doubt.'
'Peace, brother Kay,' sayde Sir Gawaine,
'And amend thee of thy life:
For there is a knight amongst us all
Must marry her to his wife.'
'What, marry this foule queene?' quoth Kay,
'I' the devil's name anone;
Gette mee a wife wherever I maye,
In sooth shee shall be none.'
Then some tooke up their hawkes in haste,
And some took up their houndes,
And sayd they wolde not marry her
For cities, nor for townes.
Then bespake him King Arthure,
And sware there 'by this daye,
For a little foule sighte and mislikinge,
Yes shall not say her naye.'
'Peace, lordings, peace,' Sir Gawaine sayd,
'Nor make debate and strife;
This lothlye ladye I will take,
And marry her to my wife.'
'Nowe thankes, nowe thankes, good Sir Gawaine,
And a blessinge be thy meede!
For as I am thine owne ladye,
Thou never shalt rue this deede.'
Then up they took that lothly dame,
And home anone they bringe:
And there Sir Gawaine he her wed,
And married her with a ringe.
And when they were in wed-bed laid,
And all were done awaye:
'Come turne to mee, mine owne wedlord,
Come turne to mee, I praye.'
Sir Gawaine scant could lift his head,
For sorrowe and for eare;
When lo! instead of that lothelye dame,
Hee sawe a young ladye faire.
Sweet blushes stayn'd her rud-red cheeke,
Her eyen were blacke as sloe:
The ripening cherrye swellde her lippe,
And all her necke was snowe.
Sir Gawaine kiss'd that lady faire,
Lying upon the sheete,
And swore, as he was a true knighte,
The spice was never so sweete.
Sir Gawaine kiss'd that ladye brighte,
Lying there by his side:
'The fairest flower is not soe faire:
Thou never canst bee my bride.'
'I am thy bride, mine owne deare lorde;
The same whiche thou didst knowe,
That was soe lothlye, and was wont
Upon the wild more to goe.
'Nowe, gentle Gawaine, chuse,' quoth shee,
'And make thy choice with care;
Whether by night, or else by daye,
Shall I be foule or faire?'
'To have thee foule still in the night,
When I with thee should playe!
I had rather farre, my lady deare,
To have thee foule by daye.'
'What! when gaye ladyes goe with their lordes
To drinke the ale and wine;
Alas! then I must hide myself,
I must not goe with mine!'
'My faire ladye,' Sir Gawaine sayd,
'I yield me to thy skille;
Because thou art mine owne ladye,
Thou shalt have all thy wille.'
'Nowe blessed be thou, sweete Gawaine,
And the daye that I thee see;
For as thou seest mee at this time,
Soe shall I ever bee.
'My father was an aged knighte,
And yet it chanced soe,
He tooke to wife a false ladye,
Whiche broughte me to this owe.
'Shee witch'd mee, being a faire yonge maide,
In the greene forest to dwelle,
And there to abide in lothlye shape,
Most like a fiend of helle;
'Midst mores and mosses, woods and wilds,
To lead a lonesome life,
Till some yong, faire and courtlye knighte
Wolde marrye me to his wife:
'Nor fully to gaine mine owne trewe shape,
Such was her devilish skille,
Until he wolde yielde to be rul'd by mee,
And let mee have all my wille.
'She witchd my brother to a carlish boore,
And made him stiffe and stronge;
And built him a bowre on magicke grounde,
To live by rapine and wronge.
'But now the spelle is broken throughe,
And wronge is turnde to righte;
Henceforth I shall bee a faire ladye,
And hee be a gentle knighte.'
King Arthur lives in merry Carleile,
And seemely is to see;
And there with him queene Guenever,
That bride soe bright of blee.
And there with him queene Guenever,
That bride so bright in bowre:
And all his barons about him stoode,
That were both stiffe and stowre.
The king a royale Christmasse kept,
With mirth and princelye cheare;
To him repaired many a knighte,
That came both farre and neare.
And when they were to dinner sette,
And cups went freely round;
Before them came a faire damsèlle,
And knelt upon the ground.
A boone, a boone, O kinge Arthùre,
I beg a boone of thee;
Avenge me of a carlish knighte,
Who hath shent my love and me.
At Tearne-Wadling his castle stands,
Near to that lake so fair,
And proudlye rise the battlements,
And streamers deck the air.
Noe gentle knighte, nor ladye gay,
May pass that castle-walle:
But from that foule discurteous knighte,
Mishappe will them befalle.
Hee's twyce the size of common men,
Wi' thewes, and sinewes stronge,
And on his backe he bears a clubbe,
That is both thicke and longe.
This grimme baròne 'twas our harde happe,
But yester morne to see;
When to his bowre he bare my love,
And sore misused mee.
And when I told him, king Arthùre
As lyttle shold him spare;
Goe tell, sayd hee, that cuckold kinge,
To meete mee if he dare.
Upp then sterted king Arthùre,
And sware by hille and dale,
He ne'er wolde quitt that grimme baròne,
Till he had made him quail.
Goe fetch my sword Excalibar:
Goe saddle mee my steede;
Nowe, by my faye, that grimme baròne
Shall rue this ruthfulle deede.
And when he came to Tearne Wadlinge
Benethe the castle walle:
"Come forth; come forth; thou proude baròne,
Or yielde thyself my thralle."
On magicke grounde that castle stoode,
And fenc'd with many a spelle:
Noe valiant knighte could tread thereon,
But straite his courage felle.
Forth then rush'd that carlish knight,
King Arthur felte the charme:
His sturdy sinewes lost their strengthe,
Downe sunke his feeble arme.
Nowe yield thee, yield thee, kinge Arthùre,
Now yield thee, unto mee:
Or fighte with mee, or lose thy lande,
Noe better termes maye bee,
Unless thou sweare upon the rood,
And promise on thy faye,
Here to returne to Tearne-Wadling,
Upon the new-yeare's daye;
And bringe me worde what thing it is
All women moste desyre;
This is thy ransome, Arthur, he sayes,
Ile have noe other hyre.
King Arthur then helde up his hande,
And sware upon his faye,
Then tooke his leave of the grimme barone
And faste hee rode awaye.
And he rode east, and he rode west,
And did of all inquyre,
What thing it is all women crave,
And what they most desyre.
Some told him riches, pompe, or state;
Some rayment fine and brighte;
Some told him mirthe; some flatterye;
And some a jollye knighte.
In letters all king Arthur wrote,
And seal'd them with his ringe:
But still his minde was helde in doubte,
Each tolde a different thinge.
As ruthfulle he rode over a more,
He saw a ladye sette
Betweene an oke, and a greene holléye,
All clad in red scarlette.
Her nose was crookt and turnd outwàrde,
Her chin stoode all awrye;
And where as sholde have been her mouthe,
Lo! there was set her eye:
Her haires, like serpents, clung aboute
Her cheekes of deadlye hewe:
A worse-form'd ladye than she was,
No man mote ever viewe.
To hail the king in seemelye sorte
This ladye was fulle faine;
But king Arthùre all sore amaz'd,
No aunswere made againe.
What wight art thou, the ladye sayd,
That wilt not speake to mee;
Sir, I may chance to ease thy paine,
Though I be foule to see.
If thou wilt ease my paine, he sayd,
And helpe me in my neede;
Ask what thou wilt, thou grimme ladyè
And it shall bee thy meede.
O sweare mee this upon the roode,
And promise on thy faye;
And here the secrette I will telle,
That shall thy ransome paye.
King Arthur promis'd on his faye,
And sware upon the roode;
The secrette then the ladye told,
As lightlye well shee cou'de.
Now this shall be my paye, sir king,
And this my guerdon bee,
That some yong fair and courtlye knight,
Thou bringe to marrye mee.
Fast then pricked king Arthùre
Ore hille, and dale, and downe:
And soone he founde the barone's bowre:
And soone the grimme baroùne.
He bare his clubbe upon his backe,
Hee stoode bothe stiffe and stronge;
And, when he had the letters reade,
Awaye the lettres flunge.
Nowe yielde thee, Arthur, and thy lands,
All forfeit unto mee;
For this is not thy paye, sir king,
Nor may thy ransome bee.
Yet hold thy hand, thou proud baròne,
I praye thee hold thy hand;
And give mee leave to speake once more
In reskewe of my land.
This morne, as I came over a more,
I saw a ladye sette
Betwene an oke, and a greene hollèye,
All clad in red scarlètte.
Shee sayes, all women will have their wille,
This is their chief desyre;
Now yield, as thou art a barone true,
That I have payd mine hyre.
An earlye vengeaunce light on her!
The carlish baron swore:
Shee was my sister tolde thee this,
And shee's a mishapen whore.
But here I will make mine avowe,
To do her as ill a turne:
For an ever I may that foule theefe gette,
In a fyre I will her burne.
IT is the dead of night:
Yet more than noonday light
Beams far and wide from many a gorgeous hall.
Unnumbered harps are tinkling,
Unnumbered lamps are twinkling,
In the great city of the fourfold wall.
By the brazen castle's moat,
The sentry hums a livelier note.
The ship-boy chaunts a shriller lay
From the galleys in the bay.
Shout, and laugh, and hurrying feet
Sound from mart and square and street,
From the breezy laurel shades,
From the granite colonnades,
From the golden statue's base,
From the stately market-place,
Where, upreared by captive hands,
The great Tower of Triumph stands,
All its pillars in a blaze
With the many-coloured rays,
Which lanthorns of ten thousand dyes
Shed on ten thousand panoplies.
But closest is the throng,
And loudest is the song,
In that sweet garden by the river side,
The abyss of myrtle bowers,
The wilderness of flowers,
Where Cain hath built the palace of his pride.
Such palace ne'er shall be again
Among the dwindling race of men.
From all its threescore gates the light
Of gold and steel afar was thrown;
Two hundred cubits rose in height
The outer wall of polished stone.
On the top was ample space
For a gallant chariot race,
Near either parapet a bed
Of the richest mould was spread,
Where amidst flowers of every scent and hue
Rich orange trees, and palms, and giant cedars grew.
In the mansion's public court
All is revel, song, and sport;
For there, till morn shall tint the east,
Menials and guards prolong the feast.
The boards with painted vessels shine;
The marble cisterns foam with wine.
A hundred dancing girls are there
With zoneless waists and streaming hair;
And countless eyes with ardour gaze,
And countless hands the measure beat,
As mix and part in amorous maze
Those floating arms and bounding feet.
But none of all the race of Cain,
Save those whom he hath deigned to grace
With yellow robe and sapphire chain,
May pass beyond that outer space.
For now within the painted hall
The Firstborn keeps high festival.
Before the glittering valves all night
Their post the chosen captains hold.
Above the portal's stately height
The legend flames in lamps of gold:
'In life united and in death
'May Tirzah and Ahirad be,
'The bravest he of all the sons of Seth,
'Of all the house of Cain the loveliest she.'
Through all the climates of the earth
This night is given to festal mirth.
The long continued war is ended.
The long divided lines are blended.
Ahirad's bow shall now no more
Make fat the wolves with kindred gore.
The vultures shall expect in vain
Their banquet from the sword of Cain.
Without a guard the herds and flocks
Along the frontier moors and rocks
From eve to morn may roam:
Nor shriek, nor shout, nor reddened sky,
Shall warn the startled hind to fly
From his beloved home.
Nor to the pier shall burghers crowd
With straining necks and faces pale,
And think that in each flitting cloud
They see a hostile sail.
The peasant without fear shall guide
Down smooth canal or river wide
His painted bark of cane,
Fraught, for some proud bazaar's arcades,
With chestnuts from his native shades,
And wine, and milk, and grain.
Search round the peopled globe to-night,
Explore each continent and isle,
There is no door without a light,
No face without a smile.
The noblest chiefs of either race,
From north and south, from west and east,
Crowd to the painted hall to grace
The pomp of that atoning feast.
With widening eyes and labouring breath
Stand the fair-haired sons of Seth,
As bursts upon their dazzled sight
The endless avenue of light,
The bowers of tulip, rose, and palm,
The thousand cressets fed with balm,
The silken vests, the boards piled high
With amber, gold, and ivory,
The crystal founts whence sparkling flow
The richest wines o'er beds of snow,
The walls where blaze in living dyes
The king's three hundred victories.
The heralds point the fitting seat
To every guest in order meet,
And place the highest in degree
Nearest th' imperial canopy.
Beneath its broad and gorgeous fold,
With naked swords and shields of gold,
Stood the seven princes of the tribes of Nod.
Upon an ermine carpet lay
Two tiger cubs in furious play,
Beneath the emerald throne where sat the signed of God.
Over that ample forehead white
The thousandth year returneth.
Still, on its commanding height,
With a fierce and blood-red light,
The fiery token burneth.
Wheresoe'er that mystic star
Blazeth in the van of war,
Back recoil before its ray
Shield and banner, bow and spear,
Maddened horses break away
From the trembling charioteer.
The fear of that stern king doth lie
On all that live beneath the sky:
All shrink before the mark of his despair,
The seal of that great curse which he alone can bear.
Blazing in pearls and diamonds' sheen.
Tirzah, the young Ahirad's bride,
Of humankind the destined queen,
Sits by her great forefather's side.
The jetty curls, the forehead high,
The swan like neck, the eagle face,
The glowing cheek, the rich dark eye,
Proclaim her of the elder race.
With flowing locks of auburn hue,
And features smooth, and eye of blue,
Timid in love as brave in arms,
The gentle heir of Seth askance
Snatches a bashful, ardent glance
At her majestic charms;
Blest when across that brow high musing flashes
A deeper tint of rose,
Thrice blest when from beneath the silken lashes
Of her proud eye she throws
The smile of blended fondness and disdain
Which marks the daughters of the house of Cain.
All hearts are light around the hall
Save his who is the lord of all.
The painted roofs, the attendant train,
The lights, the banquet, all are vain.
He sees them not. His fancy strays
To other scenes and other days.
A cot by a lone forest's edge,
A fountain murmuring through the trees,
A garden with a wildflower hedge,
Whence sounds the music of the bees,
A little flock of sheep at rest
Upon a mountain's swarthy breast.
On his rude spade he seems to lean
Beside the well remembered stone,
Rejoicing o'er the promised green
Of the first harvest man hath sown.
He sees his mother's tears;
His father's voice he hears,
Kind as when first it praised his youthful skill.
And soon a seraph-child,
In boyish rapture wild,
With a light crook comes bounding from the hill,
Kisses his hands, and strokes his face,
And nestles close in his embrace.
In his adamantine eye
None might discern his agony;
But they who had grown hoary next his side,
And read his stern dark face with deepest skill,
Could trace strange meanings in that lip of pride,
Which for one moment quivered and was still.
No time for them to mark or him to feel
Those inward stings; for clarion, flute, and lyre,
And the rich voices of a countless quire,
Burst on the ear in one triumphant peal.
In breathless transport sits the admiring throng,
As sink and swell the notes of Jubal's lofty song.
'Sound the timbrel, strike the lyre,
Wake the trumpet's blast of fire,
Till the gilded arches ring.
Empire, victory, and fame,
Be ascribed unto the name
Of our father and our king.
Of the deeds which he hath done,
Of the spoils which he hath won,
Let his grateful children sing.
When the deadly fight was fought,
When the great revenge was wrought,
When on the slaughtered victims lay
The minion stiff and cold as they,
Doomed to exile, sealed with flame,
From the west the wanderer came.
Six score years and six he strayed
A hunter through the forest shade.
The lion's shaggy jaws he tore,
To earth he smote the foaming boar,
He crushed the dragon's fiery crest,
And scaled the condor's dizzy nest;
Till hardy sons and daughters fair
Increased around his woodland lair.
Then his victorious bow unstrung
On the great bison's horn he hung.
Giraffe and elk he left to hold
The wilderness of boughs in peace,
And trained his youth to pen the fold,
To press the cream, and weave the fleece.
As shrunk the streamlet in its bed,
As black and scant the herbage grew,
O'er endless plains his flocks he led
Still to new brooks and postures new.
So strayed he till the white pavilions
Of his camp were told by millions,
Till his children's households seven
Were numerous as the stars of heaven.
Then he bade us rove no more;
And in the place that pleased him best,
On the great river's fertile shore,
He fixed the city of his rest.
He taught us then to bind the sheaves,
To strain the palm's delicious milk,
And from the dark green mulberry leaves
To cull the filmy silk.
Then first from straw-built mansions roamed
O'er flower-beds trim the skilful bees;
Then first the purple wine vats foamed
Around the laughing peasant's knees;
And olive-yards, and orchards green,
O'er all the hills of Nod were seen.
'Of our father and our king
Let his grateful children sing.
From him our race its being draws,
His are our arts, and his our laws.
Like himself he bade us be,
Proud, and brave, and fierce, and free.
True, through every turn of fate,
In our friendship and our hate.
Calm to watch, yet prompt to dare;
Quick to feel, yet firm to bear;
Only timid, only weak,
Before sweet woman's eye and cheek.
We will not serve, we will not know,
The God who is our father's foe.
In our proud cities to his name
No temples rise, no altars flame.
Our flocks of sheep, our groves of spice,
To him afford no sacrifice.
Enough that once the House of Cain
Hath courted with oblation vain
The sullen power above.
Henceforth we bear the yoke no more;
The only gods whom we adore
Are glory, vengeance, love.
'Of our father and our king
Let his grateful children sing.
What eye of living thing may brook
On his blazing brow to look?
What might of living thing may stand
Against the strength of his right hand?
First he led his armies forth
Against the Mammoths of the north,
What time they wasted in their pride
Pasture and vineyard far and wide.
Then the White River's icy flood
Was thawed with fire and dyed with blood,
And heard for many a league the sound
Of the pine forests blazing round,
And the death-howl and trampling din
Of the gigantic herd within.
From the surging sea of flame
Forth the tortured monsters came;
As of breakers on the shore
Was their onset and their roar;
As the cedar-trees of God
Stood the stately ranks of Nod.
One long night and one short day
The sword was lifted up to slay.
Then marched the firstborn and his sons
O'er the white ashes of the wood,
And counted of that savage brood
Nine times nine thousand skeletons.
'On the snow with carnage red
The wood is piled, the skins are spread.
A thousand fires illume the sky;
Round each a hundred warriors lie.
But, long ere half the night was spent,
Forth thundered from the golden tent
The rousing voice of Cain.
A thousand trumps in answer rang
And fast to arms the warriors sprang
O'er all the frozen plain.
A herald from the wealthy bay
Hath come with tidings of dismay.
From the western ocean's coast
Seth hath led a countless host,
And vows to slay with fire and sword
All who call not on the Lord.
His archers hold the mountain forts;
His light armed ships blockade the ports;
His horsemen tread the harvest down.
On twelve proud bridges he hath passed
The river dark with many a mast,
And pitched his mighty camp at last
Before the imperial town.
'On the south and on the west,
Closely was the city prest.
Before us lay the hostile powers.
The breach was wide between the towers.
Pulse and meal within were sold
For a double weight of gold.
Our mighty father had gone forth
Two hundred marches to the north.
Yet in that extreme of ill
We stoutly kept his city still;
And swore beneath his royal wall,
Like his true sons to fight and fall.
'Hark, hark, to gong and horn,
Clarion, and fife, and drum,
The morn, the fortieth morn,
Fixed for the great assault is come.
Between the camp and city spreads
A waving sea of helmed heads.
From the royal car of Seth
Was hung the blood-reg flag of death:
At sight of that thrice-hallowed sign
Wide flew at once each banner's fold;
The captains clashed their arms of gold;
The war cry of Elohim rolled
Far down their endless line.
On the northern hills afar
Pealed an answering note of war.
Soon the dust in whirlwinds driven,
Rushed across the northern heaven.
Beneath its shroud came thick and loud
The tramp as of a countless crowd;
And at intervals were seen
Lance and hauberk glancing sheen;
And at intervals were heard
Charger's neigh and battle word.
'Oh what a rapturous cry
From all the city's thousand spires arose,
With what a look the hollow eye
Of the lean watchman glared upon the foes,
With what a yell of joy the mother pressed
The moaning baby to her withered breast;
When through the swarthy cloud that veiled the plain
Burst on his children's sight the flaming brow of Cain!'
There paused perforce that noble song;
For from all the joyous throng,
Burst forth a rapturous shout which drowned
Singer's voice and trumpet's sound.
Thrice that stormy clamour fell,
Thrice rose again with mightier swell.
The last and loudest roar of all
Had died along the painted wall.
The crowd was hushed; the minstrel train
Prepared to strike the chords again;
When on each ear distinctly smote
A low and wild and wailing note.
It moans again. In mute amaze
Menials, and guests, and harpers gaze.
They look above, beneath, around,
No shape doth own that mournful sound.
It comes not from the tuneful quire;
It comes not from the feasting peers.
There is no tone of earthly lyre
So soft, so sad, so full of tears.
Then a strange horror came on all
Who sate at that high festival.
The far famed harp, the harp of gold,
Dropped from Jubal's trembling hold.
Frantic with dismay the bride
Clung to her Ahirad's side.
And the corpse-like hue of dread
Ahirad's haughty face o'erspread.
Yet not even in that agony of awe
Did the young leader of the fair-haired race
From Tirzah's shuddering grasp his hand withdraw,
Or turn his eyes from Tirzah's livid face.
The tigers to their lord retreat,
And crouch and whine beneath his feet.
Prone sink to earth the golden shielded seven.
All hearts are cowed save his alone
Who sits upon the emerald throne;
For he hath heard Elohim speak from heaven.
Still thunders in his ear the peal;
Still blazes on his front the seal:
And on the soul of the proud king
No terror of created thing
From sky, or earth, or hell, hath power
Since that unutterable hour.
He rose to speak, but paused, and listening stood,
Not daunted, but in sad and curious mood,
With knitted brow, and searching eye of fire.
A deathlike silence sank on all around,
And through the boundless space was heard no sound,
Save the soft tones of that mysterious lyre.
Broken, faint, and low,
At first the numbers flow.
Louder, deeper, quicker, still
Into one fierce peal they swell,
And the echoing palace fill
With a strange funereal yell.
A voice comes forth. But what, or where?
On the earth, or in the air?
Like the midnight winds that blow
Round a lone cottage in the snow,
With howling swell and sighing fall,
It wails along the trophied hall.
In such a wild and dreary moan
The watches of the Seraphim
Poured out all night their plaintive hymn
Before the eternal throne.
Then, when from many a heavenly eye
Drops as of earthly pity fell
For her who had aspire too high,
For him who loved too well.
When, stunned by grief, the gentle pair
From the nuptial garden fair,
Linked in a sorrowful caress,
Strayed through the untrodden wilderness;
And close behind their footsteps came
The desolating sword of flame,
And drooped the cedared alley's pride,
And fountains shrank, and roses died.
'Rejoice, O Son of God, rejoice,'
Sang that melancholy voice,
'Rejoice, the maid is fair to see;
The bower is decked for her and thee;
The ivory lamps around it throw
A soft and pure and mellow glow.
Where'er the chastened lustre falls
On roof or cornice, floor or walls,
Woven of pink and rose appear
Such words as love delights to hear.
The breath of myrrh, the lute's soft sound,
Float through the moonlight galleries round.
O'er beds of violet and through groves of spice,
Lead thy proud bride into the nuptial bower;
For thou hast bought her with a fearful price,
And she hath dowered thee with a fearful dower.
The price is life. The dower is death.
Accursed loss! Accursed gain!
For her thou givest the blessedness of Seth,
And to thine arms she brings the curse of Cain.
Round the dark curtains of the fiery throne
Pauses awhile the voice of sacred song:
From all the angelic ranks goes forth a groan,
'How long, O Lord, how long?'
The still small voice makes answer, 'Wait and see,
Oh sons of glory, what the end shall be.'
'But, in the outer darkness of the place
Where God hath shown his power without his grace,
Is laughter and the sound of glad acclaim,
Loud as when, on wings of fire,
Fulfilled of his malign desire,
From Paradise the conquering serpent came.
The giant ruler of the morning star
From off his fiery bed
Lifts high his stately head,
Which Michael's sword hath marked with many a scar.
At his voice the pit of hell
Answers with a joyous yell,
And flings her dusky portals wide
For the bridegroom and the bride.
'But louder still shall be the din
In the halls of Death and Sin,
When the full measure runneth o'er,
When mercy can endure no more,
When he who vainly proffers grace,
Comes in his fury to deface
The fair creation of his hand;
When from the heaven streams down amain
For forty days the sheeted rain;
And from his ancient barriers free,
With a deafening roar the sea
Comes foaming up the land.
Mother, cast thy babe aside:
Bridegroom, quit thy virgin bride:
Brother, pass thy brother by:
'Tis for life, for life, ye fly.
Along the drear horizon raves
The swift advancing line of waves.
On: on: their frothy crests appear
Each moment nearer, and more near.
Urge the dromedary's speed;
Spur to death the reeling steed;
If perchance ye yet may gain
The mountains that o'erhang the plain.
'Oh thou haughty land of Nod,
Hear the sentence of thy God.
Thou hast said, 'Of all the hills
Whence, after autumn rains, the rills
In silver trickle down,
The fairest is that mountain white
Which intercepts the morning light
From Cain's imperial town.
On its first and gentlest swell
Are pleasant halls where nobles dwell;
And marble porticoes are seen
Peeping through terraced gardens green.
Above are olives, palms, and vines;
And higher yet the dark-blue pines;
And highest on the summit shines
The crest of everlasting ice.
Here let the God of Abel own
That human art hath wonders shown
Beyond his boasted paradise.'
'Therefore on that proud mountain's crown
Thy few surviving sons and daughters
Shall see their latest sun go down
Upon a boundless waste of waters.
None salutes and none replies;
None heaves a groan or breathes a prayer
They crouch on earth with tearless eyes,
And clenched hands, and bristling hair.
The rain pours on: no star illumes
The blackness of the roaring sky.
And each successive billow booms
Nigher still and still more nigh.
And now upon the howling blast
The wreaths of spray come thick and fast;
And a great billow by the tempest curled
Falls with a thundering crash; and all is o'er.
In what is left of all this glorious world?
A sky without a beam, a sea without a shore.
'Oh thou fair land, where from their starry home
Cherub and seraph oft delight to roam,
Thou city of the thousand towers,
Thou palace of the golden stairs,
Ye gardens of perennial flowers,
Ye moted gates, ye breezy squares;
Ye parks amidst whose branches high
Oft peers the squirrel's sparkling eye;
Ye vineyards, in whose trellised shade
Pipes many a youth to many a maid;
Ye ports where rides the gallant ship,
Ye marts where wealthy burghers meet;
Ye dark green lanes which know the trip
Of woman's conscious feet;
Ye grassy meads where, when the day is done,
The shepherd pens his fold;
Ye purple moors on which the setting sun
Leaves a rich fringe of gold;
Ye wintry deserts where the larches grow;
Ye mountains on whose everlasting snow
No human foot hath trod;
Many a fathom shall ye sleep
Beneath the grey and endless deep,
In the great day of the revenge of God.'
I
I hate this yoke; for the world's sake here put it on:
Knowing 'twill weigh as much on you till life is gone.
Knowing you love your freedom dear, as I love mine—
Knowing that love unchained has been our life's great wine:
Our one great wine (yet spent too soon, and serving none;
Of the two cups free love at last the deadly one).
II
We grant our meetings will be tame, not honey-sweet
No longer turning to the tryst with flying feet.
We know the toil that now must come will spoil the bloom
And tenderness of passion's touch, and in its room
Will come tame habit, deadly calm, sorrow and gloom.
Oh, how the battle sears the best who enter life!
Each soidier comes out blind or lame from the black strife.
Mad or diseased or damned of soul the best may come—
It matters not how merrily now rolls the drum,
The fife shrills high, the horn sings loud, till no steps lag—
And all adore that silken flame, Desire's great flag.
III
We will build strong our tiny fort, strong as we can—
Holding one inner room beyond the sword of man.
Love is too wide, it seems to-day, to hide it there.
It seems to flood the fields of corn, and gild the air—
It seems to breathe from every brook, from flowers to sigh—
It seems a cataract poured down from the great sky;
It seems a tenderness so vast no bush but shows
Its haunting and transfiguring light where wonder glows.
It wraps us in a silken snare by shadowy streams,
And wildering sweet and stung with joy your white soul seems
A flame, a flame, conquering day, conquering night,
Brought from our God, a holy thing, a mad delight.
But love, when all things beat it down, leaves the wide air,
The heavens are gray, and men turn wolves, lean with despair.
Ah, when we need love most, and weep, when all is dark,
Love is a pinch of ashes gray, with one live spark—
Yet on the hope to keep alive that treasure strange
Hangs all earth's struggle, strife and scorn, and desperate change.
IV
Love? . . . we will scarcely love our babes full many a time—
Knowing their souls and ours too well, and all our grime—
And there beside our holy hearth we'll hide our eyes—
Lest we should flash what seems disdain without disguise.
Yet there shall be no wavering there in that deep trial—
And no false fire or stranger hand or traitor vile—
We'll fight the gloom and fight the world with strong sword-play,
Entrenched within our block-house small, ever at bay—
As fellow-warriors, underpaid, wounded and wild,
True to their battered flag, their faith still undefiled!
Aetatis suae fifty-two,
A rich Divine began to woo
A handsome young imperious girl,
Nearly related to an Earl.
Her parents and her friends consent,
The couple to the temple went.
They first invite the Cyprian Queen,
’Twas answered, she would not be seen;
The Graces next, and all the Muses
Were bid in form, but sent excuses.
Juno attended at the porch,
With farthing candle for a torch,
While Mistress Iris held her train,
The faded bow distilling rain.
Then Hebe came and took her place,
But showed no more than half her face.
What’er these dire forebodings meant,
In mirth the wedding-day was spent;
The wedding-day, you take me right,
I promise nothing for the night.
The bridegroom, dressed to make a figure,
Assumes an artificial vigour,
A flourished night-cap on to grace
His ruddy, wrinkled, smirking face,
Like the faint red upon a pippin,
Half withered by a winter’s keeping.
And thus set out, this happy pair,
The Swain is rich, the Nymph is fair;
But, which I gladly would forget,
The Swain is old, the Nymph coquette;
Both from the goal together start,
Scarce run a step before they part;
No common ligament that binds
The various textures of their minds,
Their thoughts and actions, hopes and fears,
Less corresponding than their years.
Her spouse desires his coffee soon,
She rises to her tea at noon.
While he goes out to cheapen books,
She at the glass consults her looks
While Betty’s buzzing in her ear,
Lord, what a dress these Parsons wear!
So odd a choice how could she make?
Wished him a Colonel for her sake.
Then, on her fingers ends, she counts
Exact to what his age amounts;
The Dean, she heard her Uncle say,
Is fifty, if he be a day;
His ruddy cheeks are no disguise;
You see the crows-feet round his eyes.
At one she rambles to the shops,
To cheapen tea, and talk with fops;
Or calls a council of her maids
And tradesmen, to compare brocades.
Her weighty morning business o’er,
Sits down to dinner just at four;
Minds nothing that is done or said,
Her evening work so fills her head.
The Dean, who used to dine at one,
Is mawkish, and his stomach gone;
In thread-bare gown, would scarce a louse hold,
Looks like the chaplain of the household,
Beholds her from the chaplain’s place
In French brocades and Flanders lace;
He wonders what employs her brain;
But never asks, or asks in vain;
His mind is full of other cares,
And in the sneaking parson’s airs
Computes, that half a parish dues
Will hardly find his wife in shoes.
Can’st thou imagine, dull Divine,
’Twill gain her love to make her fine?
Hath she no other wants beside?
You raise desire as well as pride,
Enticing coxcombs to adore,
And teach her to despise thee more.
If in her coach she’ll condescend
To place him at the hinder end,
Her hoop is hoist above his nose,
His odious gown would soil her clothes,
And drops him at the church, to pray,
While she drives on to see the play.
He like an orderly Divine
Comes home a quarter after nine,
And meets her hasting to the Ball:
Her chairmen push him from the wall;
He enters in, and walks up stairs,
And calls the family to prayers,
Then goes alone to take his rest
In bed, where he can spare her best.
At five the footmen make a din,
Her Ladyship is just come in;
The Masquerade began at two,
She stole away with much ado,
And shall be chid this afternoon
For leaving company so soon;
She’ll say, and she may truly say’t,
She can’t abide to stay out late.
But now, though scarce a twelvemonth married
His Lady has twelve times miscarried;
The cause, alas, is quickly guessed,
The Town has whispered round the jest;
Think on some remedy in time,
You find His Reverence past his prime,
Already dwindled to a lath;
No other way but try the Bath.
For Venus rising from the ocean,
Infused a strong prolific potion,
That mixed with Achelaus’ spring,
The hornéd flood, as poets sing,
Who, with an English Beauty smitten,
Ran underground from Greece to Britain,
The genial Virtue with him brought,
And gave the Nymph a plenteous draught;
Then fled, and left his Horn behind
For husbands past their youth to find;
The Nymph who still with passion burned
Was to a boiling fountain turned,
Where childless wives crowd every morn
To drink in Achelaus’ Horn;
And here the father often gains
That title by another’s pains.
Hither, though much against his grain,
The Dean has carried Lady Jane;
He for a while would not consent,
But vowed his money all was spent;
His money spent! a clownish reason!
And must My Lady slip her Season?
The Doctor with a double fee,
Was bribed to make the Dean agree.
Here all diversions of the place
Are proper in my Lady’s case
With which she patiently complies,
Merely because her friends advise;
His money and her time employs
In music, raffling-rooms, and toys,
Or in the Cross Bath seeks an heir,
Since others oft have found one there;
Where if the Dean by chance appears,
It shames his cassock and his years;
He keeps his distance in the gallery
’Till banished by some coxcomb’s raillery,
For ’twould his character expose
To bathe among the belles and beaux.
So have I seen within a pen,
Young ducklings fostered by a hen;
But when let out, they run and muddle,
As instinct leads them, in a puddle;
The sober hen, not born to swim,
With mournful note clucks round the brim.
The Dean, with all his best endeavour,
Gets not an heir, but gets a fever;
A victim to the last essays
Of vigor in declining days,
He dies, and leaves his mourning mate
(What could he less?) his whole estate.
The widow goes through all her forms;
New lovers now will come in swarms.
Oh, may I see her soon dispensing
Her favours to some broken Ensign!
Him let her marry for his face,
And only coat of tarnished lace;
To turn her naked out of doors,
And spend her jointure on his whores:
But for a parting present leave her
A rooted pox to last for ever.
Oh! form'd by Nature, and refin'd by Art,
With charms to win, and sense to fix the heart!
By thousands sought, Clotilda, canst thou free
Thy croud of captives and descend to me?
Content in shades obscure to waste thy life,
A hidden beauty and a country wife.
O! listen while thy summers are my theme,
Ah! sooth thy partner in his waking dream!
In some small hamlet on the lonely plain,
Where Thames, through meadows, rolls his mazy train;
Or where high Windsor, thick with greens array'd,
Waves his old oaks, and spreads his ample shade,
Fancy has figur'd out our calm retreat;
Already round the visionary seat
Our limes begin to shoot, our flowers to spring,
The brooks to murmur, and the birds to sing.
Where dost thou lie, thou thinly-peopled green?
Thou nameless lawn, and village yet unseen?
Where sons, contented with their native ground,
Ne'er travell'd further than ten furlongs round;
And the tann'd peasant, and his ruddy bride,
Were born together, and together died.
Where early larks best tell the morning light,
And only Philomel disturbs the night,
'Midst gardens here my humble pile shall rise,
With sweets surrounded of ten thousand dies;
All savage where th' embroider'd gardens end,
The haunt of echoes, shall my woods ascend;
And oh! if Heaven th' ambitious thought approve,
A rill shall warble cross the gloomy grove,
A little rill, o'er pebbly beds convey'd,
Gush down the steep, and glitter through the glade.
What chearing scents those bordering banks exhale!
How loud that heifer lows from yonder vale!
That thrush how shrill! his note so clear, so high,
He drowns each feather'd minstrel of the sky.
Here let me trace beneath the purpled morn,
The deep-mouth'd beagle, and the sprightly horn;
Or lure the trout with well dissembled flies,
Or fetch the fluttering partridge from the skies.
Nor shall thy hand disdain to crop the vine,
The downy peach, or flavour'd nectarine;
Or rob the bee-hive of its golden hoard,
And bear th' unbought luxuriance to thy board.
Sometimes my books by day shall kill the hours,
While from thy needle rise the silken flowers,
And thou, by turns, to ease my feeble sight,
Resume the volume, and deceive the night.
Oh! when I mark thy twinkling eyes opprest,
Soft whispering, let me warn my love to rest;
Then watch thee, charm'd, while sleep locks every sense,
And to sweet Heaven commend thy innocence.
Thus reign'd our fathers o'er the rural fold,
Wise, hale, and honest in the days of old;
Till courts arose, where substance pays for show,
And specious joys are bought with real woe.
See Flavia's pendants, large, well-spread, and right,
The ear that wears them hears a fool each night:
Mark how the embroider'd colonel sneaks away,
To shun the withering dame that made him gay;
That knave, to gain a title, lost his fame;
That rais'd his credit by a daughter's shame;
This coxcomb's ribband cost him half his land,
And oaks, unnumber'd, bought that fool a wand.
Fond man, as all his sorrows were too few,
Acquires strange wants that nature never knew,
By midnight lamps he emulates the day,
And sleeps, perverse, the chearful suns away;
From goblets high-embost, his wine must glide,
Found his clos'd sight the gorgeous curtain slide;
Fruits ere their time to grace his pomp must rise,
And three untasted courses glut his eyes.
For this are nature's gentle calls withstood,
The voice of conscience, and the bonds of blood;
This wisdom thy reward for every pain,
And this gay glory all thy mighty gain.
Fair phantoms woo'd and scorn'd from age to age,
Since bards began to laugh, and priests to rage.
And yet, just curse on man's aspiring kind,
Prone to ambition, to example blind,
Our children's children shall our steps pursue,
And the same errours be for ever new.
Mean while in hope a guiltless country swain,
My reed with warblings chears the imagin'd plain.
Hail humble shades, where truth and silence dwell!
The noisy town and faithless court farewell!
Farewell ambition, once my darling flame!
The thirst of lucre, and the charm of fame!
In life's by-road, that winds through paths unknown,
My days, though number'd, shall be all my own.
Here shall they end, (O! might they twice begin)
And all be white the Fates intend to spin.
Tomorrow is the marriage day
Of Mopsus and fair Philida.
Come shepherds, bring your garlands gay.
O do not weep, fair Bellamour,
Though he be gone there's many more.
For love hath many loves in store.
Forbear, bold youth; all 's heaven here,
And what you do aver
To others courtship may appear,
'Tis sacrilege to her.
She is a public deity;
And were 't not very odd
She should dispose herself to be
A petty household god?
First make the sun in private shine
And bid the world adieu,
That so he may his beams confine
In compliment to you:
But if of that you do despair,
Think how you did amiss
To strive to fix her beams which are
More bright and large than his.
song Fauc1
First.
[Chorus. Endymion. Luna.]
Chorus.
Th' Astrologers own Eyes are set,
And even Wolves the Sheep forget;
Only this Shepherd, late and soon,
Upon this Hill outwakes the Moon.
Heark how he sings, with sad delight,
Thorough the clear and silent Night.
Endymion
Cynthia, O Cynthia, turn thine Ear,
nor scorn Endymions plaints to hear.
As we our Flocks, so you command
The fleecy Clouds with silver wand.
Cynthia
If thou a Mortal, rather sleep;
Or if a Shepherd, watch thy Sheep.
Endmymion
The Shepherd, since he saw thine Eyes,
And Sheep are both thy Sacrifice.
Nor merits he a Mortal's name,
That burns with an immortal Flame.
Cynthia
I have enough for me to do,
Ruling the Waves that Ebb and Flow.
Endymion
Since thou disdain'st not then to share
On Sublunary things thy Care;
Rather restrain these double Seas,
Mine Eyes uncessant deluges.
Cynthia
My wakeful Lamp all night must move,
Securing their Repose above.
Endymion
If therefore thy resplendent Ray
Can make a Night more bright then Day;
Shine thorough this obscurer Brest,
With shades of deep Despair opprest.
Chorus.
Courage, Endymion, boldly Woo,
Anchises was a Shepheard too:
Yet is her younger Sister laid
Sporting with him in Ida's shade:
And Cynthia, though the strongest,
Seeks but the honour to have held out longest.
Endymion
Here unto Latmos Top I climbe:
How far below thine Orbe sublime?
O why, as well as Eyes to see,
Have I not Armes that reach to thee?
Cynthia
'Tis needless then that I refuse,
Would you but your own Reason use.
Endymion
Though I so high may not pretend,
It is the same so you descend.
Cynthia
These Stars would say I do them wrong,
Rivals each one for thee too strong.
Endymion
The Stars are fix'd unto their Sphere,
And cannot, though they would, come near.
Less Loves set of each others praise,
While Stars Eclypse by mixing Rayes.
Cynthia
That Cave is dark.
Endymion
Then none can spy:
Or shine Thou there and 'tis the Sky.
Chorus.
Joy to Endymion,
For he has Cynthia's favour won.
And Jove himself approves
With his serenest influence their Loves.
For he did never love to pair
His Progeny above the Air;
But to be honest, valiant, wise,
Makes Mortals matches fit for Deityes.
song Fauc2
Second Song.
[Hobbinol. Phillis. Tomalin.]
Hobbinol
Phillis, Tomalin, away:
Never such a merry day.
For the Northern Shepheards Son
Has Menalca's daughter won.
Phillis
Stay till I some flow'rs ha'ty'd
In a Garland for the Bride.
Tomalin
If Thou would'st a Garland bring,
Philiis you may wait the Spring:
They ha' chosen such an hour
When She is the only flow'r.
Phillis
Let's not then at least be seen
Without each a Sprig of Green.
Hobbinol
Fear not; at Menalca's Hall
There is Bayes enough for all.
He when Young as we did graze,
But when Old he planted Bayes.
Tomalin
Here She comes; but with a Look
Far more catching then my Hook.
'Twas those Eyes, I now dare swear,
Led our Lambs we knew not where.
Hobbinol
Not our Lambs own Fleeces are
Curl'd so lovely as her Hair:
Nor our Sheep new Wash'd can be
Half so white or sweet as She.
Phillis
He so looks as fit to keep
Somewhat else then silly Sheep.
Hobbinol
Come, lets in some Carol new
Pay to Love and Them their due.
All.
Joy to that happy Pair,
Whose Hopes united banish our Despair.
What Shepheard could for Love pretend,
Whil'st all the Nymphs on Damon's choice attend?
What Shepherdess could hope to wed
Before Marina's turn were sped?
Now lesser Beauties may take place,
And meaner Virtues come in play;
While they,
Looking from high,
Shall grace
Our Flocks and us with a propitious Eye.
But what is most, the gentle Swain
No more shall need of Love complain;
But Virtue shall be Beauties hire,
And those be equal that have equal Fire.
Or who despair, now Damon does enjoy?
Marina yields. Who dares be coy?
Joy to that happy Pair,
Whose Hopes united banish our Despair.
'It is the future generation that presses into being by means of
these exuberant feelings and supersensible soap bubbles of ours.'
- Schopenhauer
'The hot night makes us keep our bedroom windows open.
Our magnolia blossoms. Life begins to happen.
My hopped up husband drops his home disputes,
and hits the streets to cruise for prostitutes,
free-lancing out along the razor's edge.
This screwball might kill his wife, then take the pledge.
Oh the monotonous meanness of his lust...
It's the injustice... he is so unjust-
whiskey-blind, swaggering home at five.
My only thought is how to keep alive.
What makes him tick? Each night now I tie
ten dollars and his car key to my thigh....
Gored by the climacteric of his want,
he stalls above me like an elephant.'
"The hot night makes us keep our bedroom windows open.
Our magnolia blossoms.Life begins to happen.
My hopped up husband drops his home disputes,
and hits the streets to cruise for prostitutes,
free-lancing out along the razor's edge.
This screwball might kill his wife, then take the pledge.
Oh the monotonous meanness of his lust. . .
It's the injustice . . . he is so unjust--
whiskey-blind, swaggering home at five.
My only thought is how to keep alive.
What makes him tick?Each night now I tie
ten dollars and his car key to my thigh. . . .
Gored by the climacteric of his want,
he stalls above me like an elephant."
What those marriage worth, I am already yours
We have marriage by heart not by rituals.
Our marriage is pious then those done by priests
And those other who are eyeing are big fool
Those who tell that I have no right on you
Don’t know that we are lovers by heart
Our children have already started to play
Not those physical children but our love has passed third anniversary.
Is physical marriage bigger then natural?
Even god believes in original heart marriage
Who dare to discard my say can anyone tells me?
If not then why dismay in her physical marriage
I am already husband of yours and you my wife
That crimson in your head, necklace in your neck has not value.
Because, I have found that one person in a million,
that one person, who I love to the depth of my being,
and who loves me more,
Because, I have found that soul mate,
who understands me, better than I understand myself.
Who can anticipate, nearly always, my intricate moods,
And either, join the party, or pass the tissues.
Why Marriage?
Because I want the whole world to know,
that we have found each other.
That the search that drives me out of bed each morning,
through floods of heartaches, sorrows and pain,
can have an end.
There will still be heartaches, sorrows and pain,
But now I have someone to share them with.
Why Marriage?
Because I know that from now on,
we will not always be the vision of loveliness we are today.
I might be less than perfect, you might be, the housemate from hell.
So I want that thread of hope and promise, that binds us together,
to keep my love tethered until storms departs.
I know that love is not something you can build a wall around,
something that you can fence in, and guard.
Love is a butterfly, which constantly flies towards the light,
and when a gust should blow our love of course,
I want our marriage to be the solid candle that burns brightest.
Marriage is my declaration of commitment,
and my hope to grow old with the one I love.
The one, I can no longer imagine life without.
The one, with whom I want to share a smile,
and in that smile say a hundred years of shared memories.
Someone whose arms will never tire,
if they are around me.
I want, all that went before, to be considered waiting.
Waiting for the fates to drive us together.
I want the time we spent together, outside marriage,
to be the time we built and tested our relationship,
and now fully proven we move forward.
Why Marriage?
Because I want the world to see that we have become one,
a union bound by our love and the love of our friends, all encompassing.
And… most of all, because we want to.
Marriage sanctifies sex,
sex consummates marriage.
But why prefer sex before marriage,
is there one or more reasons to consider?
Virginity:
Maybe its still men's quest,
a priority test for him as the best.
So that the mating could be marked,
as something worth experience to  take.
Sensuality:
The best part in sex is sensuality,
that each mate could get from sex.
The manner a partner performs well,
is much desired by almost hot lovers.
Sexuality:
Science could enhance state of sexuality,
cosmetology can recreate the transformation.
By sex before marriage a person can discern,
is the smart way to test the true lover's affinity.
Compatibility:
Sexual compatibility excites much pleasure,
Aside from love it is where both are in tune.
And to know what degree of zest it can set,
through sex before marriage is the gauge.
Why should a foolish marriage vow,
Which long ago was made,
Oblige us to each other now
When passion is decay'd?
We lov'd, and we lov'd, as long as we could,
Till our love was lov'd out in us both:
But our marriage is dead, when the pleasure is fled:
'Twas pleasure first made it an oath.
If I have pleasures for a friend,
And farther love in store,
What wrong has he whose joys did end,
And who could give no more?
'Tis a madness that he should be jealous of me,
Or that I should bar him of another:
For all we can gain is to give our selves pain,
When neither can hinder the other.
This is a new odyssey
The new beginning you’ll see
Don’t let it drowned into the sea
Hold on tight and firmly
Marriage life is beautiful
Be mindful and thoughtful
Sleeping with each other is rightful
Caring for each other is soulful
If something awful stir your pleasantry
Take it seriously and wisely
Work it out with honesty and integrity
Then you’ll find your ties a victory
When you’re blessed with children
Give them love and education
The combination to excel with distinction
To prepare them for prestigious institution
While endure to your new world
Don’t neglect your beloved parents
Should you not, it’d be cruel
For they are your past and present
Remember the wisdom of relationship
The bloodline is the lifeline
Like an entrepreneurship
Don’t cut it off until you’re resigned
Hills of Annesley, bleak and barren,
Where my thoughtless childhood stray'd,
How the northern tempests, warring,
Howl above thy tufted shade!
Now no more, the hours beguiling,
Former favourite haunts I see;
Now no more my Mary smiling
Makes ye seem a heaven to me.
and brought back with her
the first few primroses she did not pick
tucked neat into the hedgerow
a wisp of sheepwool
caught on wire she did not touch
a dewdro p which the sun caught as she passed
rabbits who lifted softbrush ears
paused then hopped away and yet not fast
a slight breeze which did not touch the primroses
which blew the wisp of sheepwool a little for a moment
which trembled the dewdro p into colours
and yet it stayed on the grass stalk
in the night
the primroses sheltered in her and grew imperceptibly
the sheepwool almost touched her
the dewdro p joined the air around her
the rabbits slept close to her
the breeze sighed and waited outside the window
in the morning they awoke together
I speak to you easily,
shadowy figure in my mmeory,
reliving all your picaresque adventures
pulled out as from a volume on a shelf,
dazzled by all the color and the drama,
each episode pulling Light
improbably from the dark.
I follow all your travels,
converse with you about the cities
where you could feel
forotten amid the lighted towers,
then big and warm at a performance
or a party in your honor.
Your tale is replayed to guitar chords
and whining harmonica strains,
realized in pure colors and words,
etched in the values
painted upon the canvas of life.
You move so comfortably
across these horizons
of the theater of memory.
Yet you, who sit recalling —
where
you
should go,
what
you
should do,
and what I can say to you,
I do not know.
dry grass prickles my feet,
9 years old ignorant toward
the feeling that paralyzes my heart,
creates a lump in my throat-
close my eyes and cover my ears
(hear no evil)
I can pretend I don't actually know
she's dying-
I sit criss-crossed in the dirt-
a crooked wind bends the grains,
shivers the skeleton inside my skin.
going against my inner fear
I call to her,
is she able to hear me
above the sounds of her dying hymns.
then I come to her,
as if it were a dream-
she looks far beyond her years,
though I know her well;
I know of her light,
I know of her faith,
but I know not of her death.
too young to understand,
an indifference-
she walks to meet God
in her garden, and I follow
(too closely)
she says she needs time
alone to write her thoughts-
and I wonder if I'm in them.
Waiting patiently a quarter to one,
we heard the whistle blow.
I looked at the others, took deep breaths,
it’s almost time to go.
The train approached, there it was
bigger than life in front of me.
my first time to jump the coal train
and take that coal for free.
We ran with strength and agility,
sprung like jumping jacks.
Took our places a top the car,
zooming along the railroad tracks.
Quickly with all the strength we had,
we threw coal to the ground.
The next task was to bag it up
and sell it in our town.
The coal train came everyday
at a quarter to one,
my first day would be my last,
I put my coal bag down.
Another true story of my childhood in Sydney Nova
Scotia.  Jumping the old coal train to make a few cents,
very little gain indeed.  Looking back once again, I see
the danger of the act, for what was profited certainly
wasn’t worth all that.  A word to the young, “stay out
of harms way, remain honest and true,  the coal train
was not for me and certainly not for you.
Written:  March 27/2007
Walking  barefoot  in the sand
basking in the early morning sun,
I felt at peace with the stillness of
a quiet Sunday. Enjoying my surroundings
and the warmth of the day
My senses  peaked by a faint scent
of  fish  filtering through the air.  The feel
of a slight drizzle  touched my nose every
now and then.  I felt the grit of the sand
giving my feet  natures gentle massage
and enjoyed every step of the way.
The sea breeze caressed my naked body,
offering me  a feeling of tranquility.  This is
my place, my special place, alone at
peace with nature, enjoying every moment,
The sand dollars  and starfish were plentiful
and strategically laid along the shoreline,
natures free gifts from the ocean.  An artistic
design placed on each sand dollar and only
nature can take the credit for its beauty  A
smile came on my face and at that point I
realized how blessed I was to be here this
day in this place at this time.  Another
treasured and a created memory to place
in my heart.
Written:   July 15,2007
Look me up at 2: 00AM
When the last lonely bar has closed
And you’re drunk with sadness
And not with booze;
Look me up with your running panty hose
And your smoky dress;
Look me up with your tearful eyes
And your weary voice;
Look me up with your abandoned children
Dangling from your heart
Like a nearly broken necklace;
Look me up like a lost sinner
With unutterable crimes to confess
To her fallible priest and fragile God;
Look me up, dear angel,
Before you’re gone forever,
A fading memory beneath forgetful sod.
After the funeral, mule praises, brays,
Windshake of sailshaped ears, muffle-toed tap
Tap happily of one peg in the thick
Grave's foot, blinds down the lids, the teeth in black,
The spittled eyes, the salt ponds in the sleeves,
Morning smack of the spade that wakes up sleep,
Shakes a desolate boy who slits his throat
In the dark of the coffin and sheds dry leaves,
That breaks one bone to light with a judgment clout'
After the feast of tear-stuffed time and thistles
In a room with a stuffed fox and a stale fern,
I stand, for this memorial's sake, alone
In the snivelling hours with dead, humped Ann
Whose hodded, fountain heart once fell in puddles
Round the parched worlds of Wales and drowned each sun
(Though this for her is a monstrous image blindly
Magnified out of praise; her death was a still drop;
She would not have me sinking in the holy
Flood of her heart's fame; she would lie dumb and deep
And need no druid of her broken body).
But I, Ann's bard on a raised hearth, call all
The seas to service that her wood-tongud virtue
Babble like a bellbuoy over the hymning heads,
Bow down the walls of the ferned and foxy woods
That her love sing and swing through a brown chapel,
Blees her bent spirit with four, crossing birds.
Her flesh was meek as milk, but this skyward statue
With the wild breast and blessed and giant skull
Is carved from her in a room with a wet window
In a fiercely mourning house in a crooked year.
I know her scrubbed and sour humble hands
Lie with religion in their cramp, her threadbare
Whisper in a damp word, her wits drilled hollow,
Her fist of a face died clenched on a round pain;
And sculptured Ann is seventy years of stone.
These cloud-sopped, marble hands, this monumental
Argument of the hewn voice, gesture and psalm
Storm me forever over her grave until
The stuffed lung of the fox twitch and cry Love
And the strutting fern lay seeds on the black sill.
I
In Casterbridge there stood a noble pile,
Wrought with pilaster, bay, and balustrade
In tactful times when shrewd Eliza swayed. -
On burgher, squire, and clown
It smiled the long street down for near a mile
II
But evil days beset that domicile;
The stately beauties of its roof and wall
Passed into sordid hands. Condemned to fall
Were cornice, quoin, and cove,
And all that art had wove in antique style.
III
Among the hired dismantlers entered there
One till the moment of his task untold.
When charged therewith he gazed, and answered bold:
"Be needy I or no,
I will not help lay low a house so fair!
IV
"Hunger is hard. But since the terms be such -
No wage, or labour stained with the disgrace
Of wrecking what our age cannot replace
To save its tasteless soul -
I'll do without your dole. Life is not much!
V
Dismissed with sneers he backed his tools and went,
And wandered workless; for it seemed unwise
To close with one who dared to criticize
And carp on points of taste:
To work where they were placed rude men were meant.
VI
Years whiled. He aged, sank, sickened, and was not:
And it was said, "A man intractable
And curst is gone." None sighed to hear his knell,
None sought his churchyard-place;
His name, his rugged face, were soon forgot.
VII
The stones of that fair hall lie far and wide,
And but a few recall its ancient mould;
Yet when I pass the spot I long to hold
As truth what fancy saith:
"His protest lives where deathless things abide!"
Somewhile before the dawn I rose, and stept
Softly along the dim way to your room,
And found you sleeping in the quiet gloom,
And holiness about you as you slept.
I knelt there; till your waking fingers crept
About my head, and held it.  I had rest
Unhoped this side of Heaven, beneath your breast.
I knelt a long time, still; nor even wept.
It was great wrong you did me; and for gain
Of that poor moment's kindliness, and ease,
And sleepy mother-comfort!
Child, you know
How easily love leaps out to dreams like these,
Who has seen them true.  And love that's wakened so
Takes all too long to lay asleep again.
When June comes dancing o'er the death of May,
With scarlet roses tinting her green breast,
And mating thrushes ushering in her day,
And Earth on tiptoe for her golden guest,
I always see the evening when we met--
The first of June baptized in tender rain--
And walked home through the wide streets, gleaming wet,
Arms locked, our warm flesh pulsing with love's pain.
I always see the cheerful little room,
And in the corner, fresh and white, the bed,
Sweet scented with a delicate perfume,
Wherein for one night only we were wed;
Where in the starlit stillness we lay mute,
And heard the whispering showers all night long,
And your brown burning body was a lute
Whereon my passion played his fevered song.
When June comes dancing o'er the death of May,
With scarlet roses staining her fair feet,
My soul takes leave of me to sing all day
A love so fugitive and so complete.
They mouth love's language. Gnash
The thirteen teeth
Your lean jaws grin with. Lash
Your itch and quailing, nude greed of the flesh.
Love's breath in you is stale, worded or sung,
As sour as cat's breath,
Harsh of tongue.
This grey that stares
Lies not, stark skin and bone.
Leave greasy lips their kissing. None
Will choose her what you see to mouth upon.
Dire hunger holds his hour.
Pluck forth your heart, saltblood, a fruit of tears.
Pluck and devour!
THE moments passed as at a play;
I had the wisdom love brings forth;
I had my share of mother-wit,
And yet for all that I could say,
And though I had her praise for it,
A cloud blown from the cut-throat North
Suddenly hid Love's moon away.
Believing every word I said,
I praised her body and her mind
Till pride had made her eyes grow bright,
And pleasure made her cheeks grow red,
And vanity her footfall light,
Yet we, for all that praise, could find
Nothing but darkness overhead.
We sat as silent as a stone,
We knew, though she'd not said a word,
That even the best of love must die,
And had been savagely undone
Were it not that Love upon the cry
Of a most ridiculous little bird
Tore from the clouds his marvellous moon.
ALTHOUGH crowds gathered once if she but showed her face,
And even old men's eyes grew dim, this hand alone,
Like some last courtier at a gypsy camping-place
Babbling of fallen majesty, records what's gone.
These lineaments, a heart that laughter has made sweet,
These, these remain, but I record what-s gone.  A crowd
Will gather, and not know it walks the very street
Whereon a thing once walked that seemed a burning cloud
Adown the grass-grown paths we strayed,
The evening cowslips ope’d
Their yellow eyes to look at her,
The love-sick lilies moped
With envy that she rather chose
To take a creamy-petalled rose
And lean it 'gainst her ebon hair,
All in that garden fair.
A languid breeze, with stolen scent
Of box-bloom in his grasp,
Sighed out his longing in her ear,
And with his dying gasp
Scattered the perfume at her feet
To blend with others not less sweet;
He loved her, but she did not care,
All in that garden fair.
The rose she honoured nodded down,
His comrades burst with spite:
Poor fool! he knew not he was doomed
To barely last the night;
Are hearts to her but as that flower,
The plaything of a careless hour,
To lacerate and never spare
All in that garden fair.
I held her hand that I might trace
Her fortune in its palm;
A bolder moonbeam than the rest
Crept up and kissed her arm,
And, kissing once, was loth to leave,
So hid himself within the sleeve
That clasped the lithe arm, white and bare,
All in that garden fair.
I traced her fortune: love and wealth,-
Tho’ life, alas! was short,
But will that wealth be bought with love?
Or love with wealth be bought?
I know not, knowing only this -
Her hand seemed waiting for a kiss,
I longed to, but I did not dare
All in that garden fair.
But she, alas! is not for me,
And I am not for her;
Yet ever deep within my thoughts
A faint regret must stir
A thrill of longing - that among
Those moonlit paths with lover's tongue
I might return, and woo her there
All in that garden fair.
Four ducks on a pond,
A grass-bank beyond,
A blue sky of spring,
White clouds on the wing;
What a little thing
To remember for years-
To remember with tears!
1
A sudden bliss has seized my mind,
And to a mountain peak it carries me
Up where the wind's forgotten how to stir the trees;
The deepest valley lies in silence.
Perceiving something, quiet goes the brook
That used to babble without cease
When rushing swiftly down the hill.
There, they are braiding laurel wreaths
And word is spread to every side;
Smoke curls up from the fields afar.
2
Do I see Pindus down below me?
I hear the pristine sisters' songs!
With flame Permessian I burn,
I strive in haste toward their visage.
They've given me the healing water:
Drink, and forget your every toil;
Rinse out your eyes with dew Castalian.
Beyond steppes and mountains cast your gaze,
Direct your soul toward those lands
Where morning breaks upon dark night.
3
Just like a ship 'midst raving waves
That threaten to engulf it,
Severs their frothing caps,
And clings steadfastly to its course
Amidst the raging silver foam,
Its wake ablaze across the deep:
Thus did the hordes of Tatars haste
Around to meet the Russian force;
Cavalry steam obscures the sky!
What happens then? They're felled at once.
4
Love for the Fatherland empowers
The souls and hands of Russian sons;
They each desire to spill their blood,
They draw their strength from sounds of war.
How does the mighty lion scare
A wolf pack baring poison teeth
Showing ferocious, gleaming eyes?
His roaring quakes the woods and shore,
His tail churns up the dust and sand,
Uncoiling mightily, he strikes.
5
Is it bronze thunder in Mount Etna's breast,
That bubbles in a sulfurous brew?
Or is it Hades shattering his chains,
And throwing wide his gaping jaws?
It is the nation of an outcast slave
Igniting a high castle's moat,
Raining down steel and flame upon the valley
Where our well-chosen warriors,
Ringed all around by swamps and foes,
Storm the swift current into fire.
6
O, hide your forces, Istanbul,
In mountains, where the fiery sky
Belches out ashes, flames and death;
Beyond where Tigris scours its banks.
But in this world there is no barrier
That could curtail the eagles' flight.
They stop for naught: not waters, forests,
Hills, torrents or the wildest steppes.
The eagle legions can attain
Heights that are scaled by wind alone.
7
Let earth, like Pontus, heave and breathe,
Let all the world's expanses groan,
Let blackest smoke obscure the light
Moldavan peaks be drenched in blood;
But none of this can hinder you,
O Rus', for fate herself protects you
In blessed Anna's name.
And now your ardent zeal for Her
Carries you swift through Tatar ranks,
Cutting wide swathes for you to pass.
8
The day conceals its rays amidst the waves,
And leaves the fight to burn against night;
The Tatar prince has perished in the dark;
The Tatars loose both light and hope.
A wolf steals from the deepest woods
Toward the pallid Turkish corpse.
Then someone watching his last sunset,
Cries out, "O, veil this crimson scene,
And cover up Muhammad's shame!
Sink like the sun into the sea!"
9
Why is my soul thus seized by fear?
My blood runs cold, my heart laments!
What sudden clamour strikes my ear?
The woods and desert wind are howling!
Fierce beasts are hiding in a cave,
The door of heaven opens wide,
Above the army, stormclouds part -
Then all at once the Hero enters,
His face aflame, he routs the foe
With blood-washed sword.
10
Is it not he, who razed the fortress
That threatened Rus' beside the flowing Don?
Is it not he who struck the Persians down
Amidst the thirsting reaches of the steppe?
Just such a gaze he cast upon his foes
When he debarked on Gothic shores,
Just such a mighty hand he raised,
And his steed galloped just as swift
When now his legions trampled the plains
That lie before the dawning day.
11
All round him from the clouds above
Rain thunderbolts and lightning,
And sensing Peter's forces nigh
The woodlands and fields lie trembling.
Who joins his fierce gaze to the south,
All cloaked in terrifying thunder?
It must be he the victor at Kazan,
Who by the Caspian's banks
Did overthrow the proud Selim -
And strew the steppe with Pagan heads.
12
One hero speaks now to the other:
"We did not toil in vain,
Nor were our exploits futile:
For now the world's in awe of Rus'.
Our work has broadened our frontiers
To north, to west and to the east.
And in the south, our Anna celebrates,
Bestows this triumph on her people."
Now darkness closes round our heroes -
Conceals them from our eyes and ears.
13
The river swirls with Tatar blood
That's spilled among the warriors.
And fearing battle to rejoin,
The foe escapes across the barren land,
Abandons sword, encampment, shame,
They paint a ghastly sight while running
Through their slain brothers blood.
Even the slightest trembling leaf
Strikes fear into their hearts now
Like screaming cannonballs.
14
The woods and vales sing out with springs
"O, victory to Rus'! O, victory!"
The foe now fleeing Russian swords
Is terrified by of his own steps.
Then, seeing her own men in flight,
The moon, ashamed of their disgrace,
Doth blush and hide her face in gloom.
And glory flies in dark of night,
With trumpets to all lands to herald
The terrifying might of Rus'.
Shall the great soul of Newton quit this earth,
To mingle with his stars; and every muse,
Astonish'd into silence, shun the weight
Of honours due to his illustrious name?
But what can man?--Even now the sons of light,
In strains high-warbled to seraphic lyre,
Hail his arrival on the coast of bliss.
Yet am not I deterr'd, though high the theme,
And sung to harps of angels, for with you,
Ethereal flames! ambitious, I aspire
In Nature's general symphony to join.
And what new wonders can ye show your guest!
Who, while on this dim spot, where mortals toil
Clouded in dust, from motion's simple laws,
Could trace the secret hand of Providence,
Wide-working through this universal frame.
Have ye not listen'd while he bound the suns
And planets to their spheres! th' unequal task
Of humankind till then. Oft had they roll'd
O'er erring man the year, and oft disgrac'd
The pride of schools, before their course was known
Full in its causes and effects to him,
All-piercing sage! who sat not down and dream'd
Romantic schemes, defended by the din
Of specious words, and tyranny of names;
But, bidding his amazing mind attend,
And with heroic patience years on years
Deep-searching, saw at last the system dawn,
And shine, of all his race, on him alone.
What were his raptures then! how pure! how strong!
And what the triumphs of old Greece and Rome,
By his diminish'd, but the pride of boys
In some small fray victorious! when instead
Of shatter'd parcels of this earth usurp'd
By violence unmanly, and sore deeds
Of cruelty and blood, Nature herself
Stood all subdu'd by him, and open laid
Her every latent glory to his view.
All intellectual eye, our solar-round
First gazing through, he by the blended power
Of gravitation and projection saw
The whole in silent harmony revolve.
From unassisted vision hid, the moons
To cheer remoter planets numerous pour'd,
By him in all their mingled tracts were seen.
He also fix'd the wandering Queen of Night,
Whether she wanes into a scanty orb,
Or, waxing broad, with her pale shadowy light,
In a soft deluge overflows the sky.
Her every motion clear-discerning, he
Adjusted to the mutual main, and taught
Why now the mighty mass of water swells
Resistless, heaving on the broken rocks,
And the full river turning; till again
The tide revertive, unattracted, leaves
A yellow waste of idle sands behind.
Then breaking hence, he took his ardent flight
Through the blue infinite; and every star,
Which the clear concave of a winter's night
Pours on the eye, or astronomic tube,
Far-stretching, snatches from the dark abyss,
Or such as farther in successive skies
To fancy shine alone, at his approach
Blaz'd into suns, the living centre each
Of an harmonious system: all combin'd,
And rul'd unerring by that single power,
Which draws the stone projected to the ground.
O unprofuse magnificence divine!
O wisdom truly perfect! thus to call
From a few causes such a scheme of things,
Effects so various, beautiful, and great,
An universe complete! and O belov'd
Of Heaven! whose well-purg'd penetrative eye,
The mystic veil transpiercing, inly scann'd
The rising, moving, wide-establish'd frame.
He, first of men, with awful wing pursu'd
The comet through the long elliptic curve,
As round innumerous worlds he wound his way,
Till, to the forehead of our evening sky
Return'd, the blazing wonder glares anew,
And o'er the trembling nations shakes dismay.
The heavens are all his own, from the wild rule
Of whirling vortices and circling spheres
To their first great simplicity restor'd.
The schools astonish'd stood; but found it vain
To keep at odds with demonstration strong,
And, unawaken'd, dream beneath the blaze
Of truth. At once their pleasing visions fled,
With the gay shadows of the morning mix'd,
When Newton rose, our philosophic sun!
Th' aërial flow of sound was known to him,
From whence it first in wavy circles breaks,
Till the touch'd organ takes the message in.
Nor could the darting beam of speed immense
Escape his swift pursuit and measuring eye.
Ev'n Light itself, which every thing displays,
Shone undiscover'd, till his brighter mind
Untwisted all the shining robe of day;
And, from the whitening undistinguish'd blaze,
Collecting every ray into his kind,
To the charm'd eye educ'd the gorgeous train
Of parent colours. First the flaming red
Sprung vivid forth; the tawny orange next;
And next delicious yellow; by whose side
Fell the kind beams of all-refreshing green.
Then the pure blue, that swells autumnal skies
Ethereal played; and then, of sadder hue,
Emerg'd the deepen'd indigo, as when
The heavy-skirted evening droops with frost;
While the last gleamings of refracted light
Died in the fainting violet away.
These, when the clouds distil the rosy shower,
Shine out distinct adown the wat'ry bow;
While o'er our heads the dewy vision bends
Delightful, melting on the fields beneath.
Myriads of mingling dyes from these result,
And myriads still remain--infinite source
Of beauty, ever flushing, ever new.
Did ever poet image aught so fair,
Dreaming in whisp'ring groves by the hoarse brook?
Or prophet, to whose rapture heaven descends?
Ev'n now the setting sun and shifting clouds,
Seen, Greenwich, from thy lovely heights, declare
How just, how beauteous the refractive law.
The noiseless tide of time, all bearing down
To vast eternity's unbounded sea,
Where the green islands of the happy shine,
He stemm'd alone; and, to the source (involv'd
Deep in primeval gloom) ascending, rais'd
His lights at equal distances, to guide
Historian wilder'd on his darksome way.
But who can number up his labours? who
His high discoveries sing? When but a few
Of the deep-studying race can stretch their minds
To what he knew--in fancy's lighter thought
How shall the muse then grasp the mighty theme?
What wonder thence that his devotion swell'd
Responsive to his knowledge? For could he,
Whose piercing mental eye diffusive saw
The finish'd university of things
In all its order, magnitude, and parts,
Forbear incessant to adore that Power
Who fills, sustains, and actuates the whole?
Say, ye who best can tell, ye happy few,
Who saw him in the softest lights of life,
All unwithheld, indulging to his friends
The vast unborrow'd treasures of his mind,
oh, speak the wondrous man! how mild, how calr
How greatly humble, how divinely good,
How firm establish'd on eternal truth;
Fervent in doing well, with every nerve
Still pressing on, forgetful of the past,
And panting for perfection; far above
Those little cares and visionary joys
That so perplex the fond impassion'd heart
Of ever-cheated, ever-trusting man.
This, Conduitt, from thy rural hours we hope;
As through the pleasing shade where nature pours
Her every sweet in studious ease you walk,
The social passions smiling at thy heart
That glows with all the recollected sage.
And you, ye hopeless gloomy-minded tribe,
You who, unconscious of those nobler flights
That reach impatient at immortal life,
Against the prime endearing privilege
Of being dare contend,--say, can a soul
Of such extensive, deep, tremendous powers,
Enlarging still, be but a finer breath
Of spirits dancing through their tubes awhile,
And then for ever lost in vacant air?
But hark! methinks I hear a warning voice,
Solemn as when some awful change is come,
Sound through the world--" 'Tis done!--the measure's full;
And I resign my charge."--Ye mouldering stones
That build the towering pyramid, the proud
Triumphal arch, the monument effac'd
By ruthless ruin, and whate'er supports
The worship'd name of hoar antiquity--
Down to the dust! What grandeur can ye boast
While Newton lifts his column to the skies,
Beyond the waste of time. Let no weak drop
Be shed for him. The virgin in her bloom
Cut off, the joyous youth, and darling child--
These are the tombs that claim the tender tear
And elegiac song. But Newton calls
For other notes of gratulation high,
That now he wanders through those endless worlds
He here so well descried, and wondering talks,
And hymns their Author with his glad compeers.
O Britain's boast! whether with angels thou
Sittest in dread discourse, or fellow-blest,
Who joy to see the honour of their kind;
Or whether, mounted on cherubic wing,
Thy swift career is with the whirling orbs,
Comparing things with things, in rapture lost,
And grateful adoration for that light
So plenteous ray'd into thy mind below
From Light Himself; oh, look with pity down
On humankind, a frail erroneous race!
Exalt the spirit of a downward world!
O'er thy dejected country chief preside,
And be her Genius call'd! her studies raise,
Correct her manners, and inspire her youth;
For, though deprav'd and sunk, she brought thee forth,
And glories in thy name! she points thee out
To all her sons, and bids them eye thy star:
While, in expectance of the second life,
When time shall be no more, thy sacred dust
Sleeps with her kings, and dignifies the scene.
St. Andrews, 1923
The, Gods that are wiser than Learning
But kinder than Life have made sure
No mortal may boast in the morning
That even will find him secure.
With naught for fresh faith or new trial,
With little unsoiled or unsold,
Can the shadow go back on the dial,
Or a new world be given for the old?
But he knows not that time shall awaken,
As he knows not what tide shall lay bare,
The heart of a man to be taken --
Taken and changed unaware.
He shall see as he tenders his vows
The far, guarded City arise --
The power of the North 'twixt Her brows --
The steel of the North in Her eyes;
The sheer hosts of Heaven above --
The grey warlock Ocean beside;
And shall feel the full centuries move
To Her purpose and pride.
Though a stranger shall he understand,
As though it were old in his blood,
The lives that caught fire 'neath Her hand --
The fires that were tamed to Her mood.
And the roar of the wind shall refashion,
And the wind-driven torches recall,
The passing of Time and the passion
Of Youth over all!
And, by virtue of magic unspoken
(What need She should utter Her power?)
The frost at his heart shall be broken
And his spirit be changed in that hour --
Changed and renewed in that hour!
She found his ring
the other day
where she had put it
safe, away.
Like a key
its lock undone
the ring brought memories
one by one.
‘With this ring’
the preacher read,
promises given,
vows were said.
The time was short
to the ‘death do us’ part
and now his home
was in her heart.
A single tear fell
from her eye.
It always did that,
made her cry.
She kissed the ring,
tucked it back away
and locked up the memories.
No more today.
SHALL I strew on thee rose or rue or laurel,
Brother, on this that was the veil of thee?
Or quiet sea-flower moulded by the sea,
Or simplest growth of meadow-sweet or sorrel,
Such as the summer-sleepy Dryads weave,
Waked up by snow-soft sudden rains at eve?
Or wilt thou rather, as on earth before,
Half-faded fiery blossoms, pale with heat
And full of bitter summer, but more sweet
To thee than gleanings of a northern shore
Trod by no tropic feet?
For always thee the fervid languid glories
Allured of heavier suns in mightier skies;
Thine ears knew all the wandering watery sighs
Where the sea sobs round Lesbian promontories,
The barren kiss of piteous wave to wave
That knows not where is that Leucadian grave
Which hides too deep the supreme head of song.
Ah, salt and sterile as her kisses were,
The wild sea winds her and the green gulfs bear
Hither and thither, and vex and work her wrong,
Blind gods that cannot spare.
Thou sawest, in thine old singing season, brother,
Secrets and sorrows unbeheld of us:
Fierce loves, and lovely leaf-buds poisonous,
Bare to thy subtler eye, but for none other
Blowing by night in some unbreathed-in clime;
The hidden harvest of luxurious time,
Sin without shape, and pleasure without speech;
And where strange dreams in a tumultuous sleep
Make the shut eyes of stricken spirits weep;
And with each face thou sawest the shadow on each,
Seeing as men sow men reap.
O sleepless heart and sombre soul unsleeping,
That were athirst for sleep and no more life
And no more love, for peace and no more strife!
Now the dim gods of death have in their keeping
Spirit and body and all the springs of song,
Is it well now where love can do no wrong,
Where stingless pleasure has no foam or fang
Behind the unopening closure of her lips?
Is it not well where soul from body slips
And flesh from bone divides without a pang
As dew from flower-bell drips?
It is enough; the end and the beginning
Are one thing to thee, who art past the end.
O hand unclasp'd of unbeholden friend,
For thee no fruits to pluck, no palms for winning,
No triumph and no labour and no lust,
Only dead yew-leaves and a little dust.
O quiet eyes wherein the light saith naught,
Whereto the day is dumb, nor any night
With obscure finger silences your sight,
Nor in your speech the sudden soul speaks thought,
Sleep, and have sleep for light.
Now all strange hours and all strange loves are over,
Dreams and desires and sombre songs and sweet,
Hast thou found place at the great knees and feet
Of some pale Titan-woman like a lover,
Such as thy vision here solicited,
Under the shadow of her fair vast head,
The deep division of prodigious breasts,
The solemn slope of mighty limbs asleep,
The weight of awful tresses that still keep
The savour and shade of old-world pine-forests
Where the wet hill-winds weep?
Hast thou found any likeness for thy vision?
O gardener of strange flowers, what bud, what bloom,
Hast thou found sown, what gather'd in the gloom?
What of despair, of rapture, of derision,
What of life is there, what of ill or good?
Are the fruits gray like dust or bright like blood?
Does the dim ground grow any seed of ours,
The faint fields quicken any terrene root,
In low lands where the sun and moon are mute
And all the stars keep silence? Are there flowers
At all, or any fruit?
Alas, but though my flying song flies after,
O sweet strange elder singer, thy more fleet
Singing, and footprints of thy fleeter feet,
Some dim derision of mysterious laughter
From the blind tongueless warders of the dead,
Some gainless glimpse of Proserpine's veil'd head,
Some little sound of unregarded tears
Wept by effaced unprofitable eyes,
And from pale mouths some cadence of dead sighs--
These only, these the hearkening spirit hears,
Sees only such things rise.
Thou art far too far for wings of words to follow,
Far too far off for thought or any prayer.
What ails us with thee, who art wind and air?
What ails us gazing where all seen is hollow?
Yet with some fancy, yet with some desire,
Dreams pursue death as winds a flying fire,
Our dreams pursue our dead and do not find.
Still, and more swift than they, the thin flame flies,
The low light fails us in elusive skies,
Still the foil'd earnest ear is deaf, and blind
Are still the eluded eyes.
Not thee, O never thee, in all time's changes,
Not thee, but this the sound of thy sad soul,
The shadow of thy swift spirit, this shut scroll
I lay my hand on, and not death estranges
My spirit from communion of thy song--
These memories and these melodies that throng
Veil'd porches of a Muse funereal--
These I salute, these touch, these clasp and fold
As though a hand were in my hand to hold,
Or through mine ears a mourning musical
Of many mourners roll'd.
I among these, I also, in such station
As when the pyre was charr'd, and piled the sods.
And offering to the dead made, and their gods,
The old mourners had, standing to make libation,
I stand, and to the Gods and to the dead
Do reverence without prayer or praise, and shed
Offering to these unknown, the gods of gloom,
And what of honey and spice my seed-lands bear,
And what I may of fruits in this chill'd air,
And lay, Orestes-like, across the tomb
A curl of sever'd hair.
But by no hand nor any treason stricken,
Not like the low-lying head of Him, the King,
The flame that made of Troy a ruinous thing,
Thou liest and on this dust no tears could quicken.
There fall no tears like theirs that all men hear
Fall tear by sweet imperishable tear
Down the opening leaves of holy poets' pages.
Thee not Orestes, not Electra mourns;
But bending us-ward with memorial urns
The most high Muses that fulfil all ages
Weep, and our God's heart yearns.
For, sparing of his sacred strength, not often
Among us darkling here the lord of light
Makes manifest his music and his might
In hearts that open and in lips that soften
With the soft flame and heat of songs that shine.
Thy lips indeed he touch'd with bitter wine,
And nourish'd them indeed with bitter bread;
Yet surely from his hand thy soul's food came,
The fire that scarr'd thy spirit at his flame
Was lighted, and thine hungering heart he fed
Who feeds our hearts with fame.
Therefore he too now at thy soul's sunsetting,
God of all suns and songs, he too bends down
To mix his laurel with thy cypress crown,
And save thy dust from blame and from forgetting.
Therefore he too, seeing all thou wert and art,
Compassionate, with sad and sacred heart,
Mourns thee of many his children the last dead,
And hollows with strange tears and alien sighs
Thine unmelodious mouth and sunless eyes,
And over thine irrevocable head
Sheds light from the under skies.
And one weeps with him in the ways Lethean,
And stains with tears her changing bosom chill;
That obscure Venus of the hollow hill,
That thing transform'd which was the Cytherean,
With lips that lost their Grecian laugh divine
Long since, and face no more call'd Erycine--
A ghost, a bitter and luxurious god.
Thee also with fair flesh and singing spell
Did she, a sad and second prey, compel
Into the footless places once more trod,
And shadows hot from hell.
And now no sacred staff shall break in blossom,
No choral salutation lure to light
A spirit sick with perfume and sweet night
And love's tired eyes and hands and barren bosom.
There is no help for these things; none to mend,
And none to mar; not all our songs, O friend,
Will make death clear or make life durable.
Howbeit with rose and ivy and wild vine
And with wild notes about this dust of thine
At least I fill the place where white dreams dwell
And wreathe an unseen shrine.
Sleep; and if life was bitter to thee, pardon,
If sweet, give thanks; thou hast no more to live;
And to give thanks is good, and to forgive.
Out of the mystic and the mournful garden
Where all day through thine hands in barren braid
Wove the sick flowers of secrecy and shade,
Green buds of sorrow and sin, and remnants gray,
Sweet-smelling, pale with poison, sanguine-hearted,
Passions that sprang from sleep and thoughts that started,
Shall death not bring us all as thee one day
Among the days departed?
For thee, O now a silent soul, my brother,
Take at my hands this garland, and farewell.
Thin is the leaf, and chill the wintry smell,
And chill the solemn earth, a fatal mother,
With sadder than the Niobean womb,
And in the hollow of her breasts a tomb.
Content thee, howsoe'er, whose days are done;
There lies not any troublous thing before,
Nor sight nor sound to war against thee more,
For whom all winds are quiet as the sun,
All waters as the shore.
Listening to ' Beatles Sunday Morning'
Reminds me of a foggy London memory.......
Spent nine hours on a plane from JFK
Some years ago back in the 60's
Attempting to land in London
Fog so thick no way to get down
So up we go and circle, circle, circle 'round...
Still no visibility, so back we go
To Shannon, landing there to refuel;
Wanting to throw up - so queezy!
Sat on that plane for 2 hours eating Rolaids
But I do recall the beauty of the country
As we soared high above and circled 'round......
I vowed to return one day
When my stomach could handle the trip;
So here we go again, onward to England
This time the fog has lifted
And there on top of the buildings
Throngs of people are waving and shouting....
Certainly not for this American plane,
But for the Beatles  - on a plane
Coming down somewhere behind us!
What a thrill!  And here we are in London
Just in time for dinner -' on the house'
Thanks to the delay in reaching our destination.
That's the closest I'll ever get to 'royalty'
But still a memory I'll treasure forever.
When I look upon a photograph.
Not so long ago, not so faded.
A picture of my beloved big brother.
The memories had filled my mind.
The times we cried and the times we laughed.
How brother watches over me,
Makes sure I'm not hurt.
When I was sick, he made my lunch.
We'd go on shopping trips.
We thought we would grow old together.
Through the years we thought it was true.
Brother and I worked on model trains.
Then time had come to call.
My big brother had to go.
He passed away, he went to eternal sleep.
God is holding him as he sleeps.
Until he comes to call.
All I have are memories and a photograph.
In memory of big brother Paul.
High in the sky, like a bird in the air,
One lonely kite, soars peacefully there,
A child on the ground, with a string in  hand,
Pulling ever so slightly, to keep it from sand,
With every slight dip, he tugs the kite,
To keep it flying, to keep it in flight,
High in the sky, he watches with care,
A kite in the air, he tries to keep it there,
A dad watches silently, with pride in his face,
As his little boy tries, to keep it in place,
A memory in making, a time to share,
A time in life, with love and care.
Crazy Loneliness Hijacks Memory of a Beautiful Girl
Last night
I missed you so much
I made love to
your nightdress
... passionately.
Now your nightdress
hides from me
slinks under covers and pillows
avoids my eyes.
I can't take another night  without you!
Your nightie can't take another night with me!
I am holding your dresses hostage
threatening them with kisses...caresses
if they make one false move.
Your other clothes
tremble in the wardrobe
...come back to me!
What beck'ning ghost, along the moon-light shade
Invites my steps, and points to yonder glade?
'Tis she!--but why that bleeding bosom gor'd,
Why dimly gleams the visionary sword?
Oh ever beauteous, ever friendly! tell,
Is it, in heav'n, a crime to love too well?
To bear too tender, or too firm a heart,
To act a lover's or a Roman's part?
Is there no bright reversion in the sky,
For those who greatly think, or bravely die?
Why bade ye else, ye pow'rs! her soul aspire
Above the vulgar flight of low desire?
Ambition first sprung from your blest abodes;
The glorious fault of angels and of gods;
Thence to their images on earth it flows,
And in the breasts of kings and heroes glows.
Most souls, 'tis true, but peep out once an age,
Dull sullen pris'ners in the body's cage:
Dim lights of life, that burn a length of years
Useless, unseen, as lamps in sepulchres;
Like eastern kings a lazy state they keep,
And close confin'd to their own palace, sleep.
From these perhaps (ere nature bade her die)
Fate snatch'd her early to the pitying sky.
As into air the purer spirits flow,
And sep'rate from their kindred dregs below;
So flew the soul to its congenial place,
Nor left one virtue to redeem her race.
But thou, false guardian of a charge too good,
Thou, mean deserter of thy brother's blood!
See on these ruby lips the trembling breath,
These cheeks now fading at the blast of death:
Cold is that breast which warm'd the world before,
And those love-darting eyes must roll no more.
Thus, if eternal justice rules the ball,
Thus shall your wives, and thus your children fall;
On all the line a sudden vengeance waits,
And frequent hearses shall besiege your gates.
There passengers shall stand, and pointing say,
(While the long fun'rals blacken all the way)
"Lo these were they, whose souls the furies steel'd,
And curs'd with hearts unknowing how to yield.
Thus unlamented pass the proud away,
The gaze of fools, and pageant of a day!
So perish all, whose breast ne'er learn'd to glow
For others' good, or melt at others' woe."
What can atone (oh ever-injur'd shade!)
Thy fate unpitied, and thy rites unpaid?
No friend's complaint, no kind domestic tear
Pleas'd thy pale ghost, or grac'd thy mournful bier.
By foreign hands thy dying eyes were clos'd,
By foreign hands thy decent limbs compos'd,
By foreign hands thy humble grave adorn'd,
By strangers honour'd, and by strangers mourn'd!
What though no friends in sable weeds appear,
Grieve for an hour, perhaps, then mourn a year,
And bear about the mockery of woe
To midnight dances, and the public show?
What though no weeping loves thy ashes grace,
Nor polish'd marble emulate thy face?
What though no sacred earth allow thee room,
Nor hallow'd dirge be mutter'd o'er thy tomb?
Yet shall thy grave with rising flow'rs be drest,
And the green turf lie lightly on thy breast:
There shall the morn her earliest tears bestow,
There the first roses of the year shall blow;
While angels with their silver wings o'ershade
The ground, now sacred by thy reliques made.
So peaceful rests, without a stone, a name,
What once had beauty, titles, wealth, and fame.
How lov'd, how honour'd once, avails thee not,
To whom related, or by whom begot;
A heap of dust alone remains of thee,
'Tis all thou art, and all the proud shall be!
Poets themselves must fall, like those they sung,
Deaf the prais'd ear, and mute the tuneful tongue.
Ev'n he, whose soul now melts in mournful lays,
Shall shortly want the gen'rous tear he pays;
Then from his closing eyes thy form shall part,
And the last pang shall tear thee from his heart,
Life's idle business at one gasp be o'er,
The Muse forgot, and thou belov'd no more!
DEAR SHADE OF HIM, who grac'd the mimick scene,
And charm'd attention with resistless pow'r;
Whose wond'rous art, whose fascinating mien,
Gave glowing rapture to the short-liv'd hour!
Accept the mournful verse, the ling'ring sigh,
The tear that faithful Mem'ry stays to shed;
The SACRED TEAR, that from Reflection's eye,
Drops on the ashes of the sainted dead.
Lov'd by the grave, and courted by the young,
In social comforts eminently blest;
All hearts rever'd the precepts of thy tongue,
And Envy's self thy eloquence confess'd.
Who could like thee the soul's wild tumults paint,
Or wake the torpid ear with lenient art?
Touch the nice sense with pity's dulcet plaint,
Or soothe the sorrows of the breaking heart?
Who can forget thy penetrating eye,
The sweet bewitching smile, th' empassion'd look?
The clear deep whisper, the persuasive sigh,
The feeling tear that Nature's language spoke?
Rich in each treasure bounteous Heaven could lend,
For private worth distinguish'd and approv'd,
The pride of WISDOM,­VIRTUE's darling friend,
By MANSFIELD honor'd­and by CAMDEN lov'd!
The courtier's cringe, the flatt'rer's abject smile,
The subtle arts of well-dissembled praise,
Thy soul abhorr'd;­above the gloss of guile,
Truth lead thy steps, and Friendship crown'd thy days.
Oft in thy HAMPTON's dark embow'ring shade
The POET's hand shall sweep the trembling string;
While the proud tribute §to thy mem'ry paid,
The voice of GENIUS on the gale shall fling.
Yes, SHERIDAN! thy soft melodious verse
Still vibrates on a nation's polish'd ear;
Fondly it hover'd o'er the sable hearse,
Hush'd the loud plaint, and triumph'd in a tear.
In life united by congenial minds,
Dear to the MUSE, to sacred friendship true;
Around her darling's urn a wreath SHE binds,
A deathless wreath­immortaliz'd by YOU!
But say, dear shade, is kindred mem'ry flown?
Has widow'd love at length forgot to weep?
That no kind verse, or monumental stone,
Marks the lone spot where thy cold relics sleep!
Dear to a nation, grateful to thy muse,
That nation's tears upon thy grave shall flow,
For who the gentle tribute can refuse,
Which thy fine feeling gave to fancied woe?
Thou who, by many an anxious toilsome hour,
Reap'd the bright harvest of luxuriant Fame,
Who snatch'd from dark oblivion's barb'rous pow'r
The radiant glories of a SHAKSPERE's name!
Rembrance oft shall paint the mournful scene
Where the slow fun'ral spread its length'ning gloom,
Where the deep murmur, and dejected mien,
In artless sorrow linger'd round thy tomb.
And tho' no laurel'd bust, or labour'd line,
Shall bid the passing stranger stay to weep;
Thy SHAKSPERE's hand shall point the hallow'd shrine,
And Britain's genius with thy ashes sleep.
Then rest in peace, O ever sacred shade!
Your kindred souls exulting FAME shall join;
And the same wreath thy hand for SHAKSPERE made,
Gemm'd with her tears about THY GRAVE SHALL TWINE.
NEAR yon bleak mountain's dizzy height,
That hangs o'er AVON's silent wave;
By the pale Crescent's glimm'ring light,
I sought LORENZO's lonely grave.
O'er the long grass the silv'ry dew,
Soft Twilight's tears spontaneous shone;
And the dank bough of baneful yew
Supply'd the place of sculptured stone.
Oft, as my trembling steps drew near,
The aëry voice of FANCY gave
The plaint of GENIUS to mine ear,
That, lingering, murmur'd on his grave.
"Cold is that heart, where honour glow'd,
And Friendship's flame sublimely shone,
And clos'd that eye where Pity flow'd,
For ev'ry suff'ring but HIS OWN.
"That form where youth and grace conspir'd,
To captivate admiring eyes,
No more belov'd, no more admir'd,
A torpid mass neglected lies.
"Mute is the music of that tongue,
Once tuneful as the voice of love,
When ORPHEUS, by his magic song,
Taught trees, and flinty rocks to move.
"Oft shall the pensive MUSE be found,
Sprinkling with flow'rs his mould'ring clay;
While soft-eyed SORROW wand'ring round,
Shall pluck intruding weeds away."
Sad victim of the sordid mind,
That doom'd THEE to an early grave;
Ne'er shall HER breast that pity find,
Which thy forgiveness nobly gave!
Thou, who, when SORROW'S icy hand
Forbad the healthsome pulse to flow,
Obedient to HER stern command,
With meek submission bow'd thee low!
And when thy faded cheek proclaim'd
The thorn that rankled in thy breast,
Thy steady soul that pride maintain'd,
Which marks the godlike mind distress'd!
Nor was thy mental strength subdu'd,
When HOPE's last ling'ring shadows fled,
Unchang'd, thy dauntless spirit view'd
The dreary confines of the dead!
And when thy penetrating mind,
Life's thorny maze presum'd to scan,
In ev'ry path condemn'd to find
"The low ingratitude of man."
Indignant would'st thou turn away,
And smiling raise thy languid eye,
And oft thy feeble voice would say,
"TO ME 'TIS HAPPINESS TO DIE."
And tho' thy FRIEND, I with skilful art,
To heal thy woes, each balm apply'd;
Tho' the fine feelings of his heart,
Nor cost nor studious care deny'd!
He saw the fatal hour draw near,
He saw THEE fading to the grave;
He gave his last kind gift, A TEAR,
And mourn'd the worth he could not save.
Nor could the ruthless breath of FATE
Snatch from thy grave the tender sigh;
Nor a relentless monster's hate
Impede thy passage to the sky.
And tho' no kindred tears were shed,
No tribute to thy memory giv'n;
Sublime in death, thy spirit fled,
To seek its best reward IN HEAVEN!
"With female Fairies will thy tomb be haunted
"And worms will not come to thee." SHAKSPERE.
WHEN from Day's closing eye the lucid tears
Fall lightly on the bending lily's head;
When o'er the blushing sky night's curtains spread,
And the tall mountain's summit scarce appears;
When languid Evening, sinking to repose,
Her filmy mantle o'er the landscape throws;
Of THEE I'll sing; and as the mournful song
Glides in slow numbers the dark woods among;
My wand'ring steps shall seek the lonely shade,
Where all thy virtues, all thy griefs are laid!
Yes, hopeless suff'rer, friendless and forlorn,
Sweet victim of love's power; the silent tear
Shall oft at twilight's close, and glimm'ring morn
Gem the pale primrose that adorns thy bier,
And as the balmy dew ascends to heaven,
Thy crime shall steal away, thy frailty be forgiv'n.
Oft by the moon's wan beam the love-lorn maid,
Led by soft SYMPATHY, shall stroll along;
Oft shall she listen in the Lime-tree's * shade,
Her cold blood freezing at the night-owl's song:
Or, when she hears the death-bell's solemn sound,
Her light steps echoing o'er the hollow ground;
Oft shall the trickling tear adorn her cheek,
Thy pow'r, O SENSIBILITY ! in magic charms to speak!
For the poor PILGRIM, doom'd afar to roam
From the dear comforts of his native home,
A glitt'ring star puts forth a silv'ry ray,
Soothes his sad heart, and marks his tedious way;
The short-liv'd radiance cheers the gloom of night,
And decks Heaven's murky dome with transitory light.
So from the mournful CHARLOTTE's dark-orb'd lids,
The sainted tear of pitying VIRTUE flows;
And the last boon, the "churlish priest" forbids,
On thy lone grave the sacred drop bestows;
There shall the sparkling dews of Evening shine,
AND HEAVEN'S OWN INCENSE CONSECRATE THE SHRINE.
Long ago, I was wounded. I lived
to revenge myself
against my father, not
for what he was--
for what I was: from the beginning of time,
in childhood, I thought
that pain meant
I was not loved.
It meant I loved.
To finger-sponge crust crumbs of fruit meringue
(Grass prickling through the blanket-tablecloth);
To climb the shading oak; to roll and hang
Inverted from a branch, as if a sloth;
And, after dropping neatly from the branch,
To pull a cup off of a tube of cups;
To grab a towel hurriedly to stanch
A soda which, on opening, erupts—
This was to be there thirty years ago,
A time constrained and hurtful, yet the day
Now has the settled warmth of a tableau.
Cloud stacks stand whitely, farmlands stretch away,
While her two brothers, in a make-believe
World Series, wave their baseball gloves and run
About the meadow as they stab and heave
Each other blinding high-flies in the sun.
Her uncle, to distract and to compose
An argument between his daughters, lies
Upon his back and eye-catchingly blows
Smoke rings which grayly loosen as they rise.
Her parents will divorce within a year,
But neither fully grasps the crisis yet:
They kneel and wrap leftovers and appear
Absorbed in a congenial tête-à-tête.
And she can walk the meadow at her ease,
Switching the tall grass with an osier wand;
Can hear the white-throats in the woods reprise
The long rich notes with which they correspond;
Can spread and duck through a barbed wire fence;
Can sit on, horseback style, a fallen tree
While grasshoppers perform leaps so immense
They seem beyond the claims of gravity.
This idyll will be, she intuits, brief;
The fabric of the family will tear.
Yet this can't change the bittersweet belief
That pleasure's no less true for being rare;
Nor can it wholly undermine her sense
That though well-muscled follies hound and press,
What counts most is her own intelligence,
However cramped by grief and loneliness.
And even now, a cousin waves to her
And blows a summons through a trumpet-fist:
She's off to pick wildflowers and would prefer
To do so with a comrade botanist.
Investigating where the field declines
To marsh land, the two harvest or reprieve
Pinks, yellow bells, and long-spurred columbines
Till voices call them that it's time to leave.
Regretting his departure from the wild,
A stuffed bear's carried off; the sun moves west;
Her aunt holds on her hip her youngest child;
The slushed ice is dumped brusquely from its chest.
Caps are screwed back on thermoses and jars;
Her two ball-playing brothers pool their talents,
Porting between them a hamper to the cars,
Their outer arms held straining out for balance.
And if the meadows grow more darkly gold,
As though withdrawing now from living fact,
The blanket brushed, she and her mother fold
It up in squares increasingly compact.
She shinnies out the oak to roll and swing
A last time underneath the limb's rough girth,
Then hangs by hands, and lets go, fathoming
The distance of her drop back to the earth.
If the memory I have of you
Were small enough to fill a thimble
I would fill a thimble,
And keep it in my sight.
But, since the memory I have of you
Is battle-size, I will fill a field
Big enough for armies, and
Listen to their noise.
Should the memory I have of you
Diminish, then, through all my years,
I will find, again, the thimble,
And keep it filled within my sight.
A long time ago,1976 to be exact
a friend said I should go along
to a writing class he had joined.
Therefore, I did and met someone,
who was to change my life.
However, I did not know it at the time.
For the first couple of years he was simply my tutor.
However, as the years rolled on,
he became my mentor,
and most of all my friend.
For every year, we knew one another
the friendship grew stronger than before.
Before I met Maurice,
he had published four novels
and I have every one.
He started with A City Called Holy,
next came The Splendour and the Havoc,
and then The World and the Flesh,
and finally Across the Frontier.
He also wrote plays,
produced, directed and acted
in them with his wife Peggy.
When I met him his books
were out of print,
but through the years,
I found them one by one.
After a friendship that lasted
over seventeen years Maurice died.
However just before he passed away,
he told me how his local library
had approached him, wanting to know
if he had any copies of his books,
as they only had one left.
He did not and felt sadly about that.
As he told me, I made a promise to myself.
Not matter how long it took,
or how much it would cost,
his local library would have,
those books of his they did not have.
More than ten years passed from the time of his death,
until I was finally able to fulfil my promise.
I collected through the years
the books the library was missing.
In January 2006, I presented them to his local library.
It was a way of saluting a special friend,
helping keep his name alive.
I did it because of the special gifts,
through the years he gave me.
His friendship, his knowledge and help
with my writing no one had ever given before.
Therefore, any success
that I may ever achieve
can be contributed to him.
A gentleman of words,
my tutor, my mentor,
and lastly a very kind and special friend.
(For the late Maurice Callard)
I
The angels guide him now,
And watch his curly head,
And lead him in their games,
The little boy we led.
II
He cannot come to harm,
He knows more than we know,
His light is brighter far
Than daytime here below.
III
His path leads on and on,
Through pleasant lawns and flowers,
His brown eyes open wide
At grass more green than ours.
IV
With playmates like himself,
The shining boy will sing,
Exploring wondrous woods,
Sweet with eternal spring.
V
Yet, he is lost to us,
Far is his path of gold,
Far does the city seem,
Lonely our hearts and old.
Blessed be Thou for all the joy
My soul has felt today!
O let its memory stay with me
And never pass away!
I was alone, for those I loved
Were far away from me,
The sun shone on the withered grass,
The wind blew fresh and free.
Was it the smile of early spring
That made my bosom glow?
'Twas sweet, but neither sun nor wind
Could raise my spirit so.
Was it some feeling of delight,
All vague and undefined?
No, 'twas a rapture deep and strong,
Expanding in the mind!
Was it a sanguine view of life
And all its transient bliss­-
A hope of bright prosperity?
O no, it was not this!
It was a glimpse of truth divine
Unto my spirit given
Illumined by a ray of light
That shone direct from heaven!
I felt there was a God on high
By whom all things were made.
I saw His wisdom and his power
In all his works displayed.
But most throughout the moral world
I saw his glory shine;
I saw His wisdom infinite,
His mercy all divine.
Deep secrets of his providence
In darkness long concealed
Were brought to my delighted eyes
And graciously revealed.
But while I wondered and adored
His wisdom so divine,
I did not tremble at his power,
I felt that God was mine.
I knew that my Redeemer lived,
I did not fear to die;
Full sure that I should rise again
To immortality.
I longed to view that bliss divine
Which eye hath never seen,
To see the glories of his face
Without the veil between.
FIVE-AND-TWENTY years have gone
Since old William pollexfen
Laid his strong bones down in death
By his wife Elizabeth
In the grey stone tomb he made.
And after twenty years they laid
In that tomb by him and her
His son George, the astrologer;
And Masons drove from miles away
To scatter the Acacia spray
Upon a melancholy man
Who had ended where his breath began.
Many a son and daughter lies
Far from the customary skies,
The Mall and Eades's grammar school,
In London or in Liverpool;
But where is laid the sailor John
That so many lands had known,
Quiet lands or unquiet seas
Where the Indians trade or Japanese?
He never found his rest ashore,
Moping for one voyage more.
Where have they laid the sailor John?
And yesterday the youngest son,
A humorous, unambitious man,
Was buried near the astrologer,
Yesterday in the tenth year
Since he who had been contented long.
A nobody in a great throng,
Decided he would journey home,
Now that his fiftieth year had come,
And 'Mr.  Alfred' be again
Upon the lips of common men
Who carried in their memory
His childhood and his family.
At all these death-beds women heard
A visionary white sea-bird
Lamenting that a man should die;
And with that cry I have raised my cry.
The light of evening, Lissadell,
Great windows open to the south,
Two girls in silk kimonos, both
Beautiful, one a gazelle.
But a raving autumn shears
Blossom from the summer's wreath;
The older is condemned to death,
Pardoned, drags out lonely years
Conspiring among the ignorant.
I know not what the younger dreams -
Some vague Utopia - and she seems,
When withered old and skeleton-gaunt,
An image of such politics.
Many a time I think to seek
One or the other out and speak
Of that old Georgian mansion, mix
pictures of the mind, recall
That table and the talk of youth,
Two girls in silk kimonos, both
Beautiful, one a gazelle.
Dear shadows, now you know it all,
All the folly of a fight
With a common wrong or right.
The innocent and the beautiful.
Have no enemy but time;
Arise and bid me strike a match
And strike another till time catch;
Should the conflagration climb,
Run till all the sages know.
We the great gazebo built,
They convicted us of guilt;
Bid me strike a match and blow.
When snow like sheep lay in the fold
And wind went begging at each door,
And the far hills were blue with cold,
And a cloud shroud lay on the moor,
She kept the siege.  And every day
We watched her brooding over death
Like a strong bird above its prey.
The room filled with the kettle's breath.
Damp curtains glued against the pane
Sealed time away.  Her body froze
As if to freeze us all, and chain
Creation to a stunned repose.
She died before the world could stir.
In March the ice unloosed the brook
And water ruffled the sun's hair.
Dead cones upon the alder shook.
Now that we're almost settled in our house
I'll name the friends that cannot sup with us
Beside a fire of turf in th' ancient tower,
And having talked to some late hour
Climb up the narrow winding stairs to bed:
Discoverers of forgotten truth
Or mere companions of my youth,
All, all are in my thoughts to-night being dead.
Always we'd have the new friend meet the old
And we are hurt if either friend seem cold,
And there is salt to lengthen out the smart
In the affections of our heart,
And quarrels are blown up upon that head;
But not a friend that I would bring
This night can set us quarrelling,
For all that come into my mind are dead.
Lionel Johnson comes the first to mind,
That loved his learning better than mankind.
Though courteous to the worst; much falling he
Brooded upon sanctity
Till all his Greek and Latin learning seemed
A long blast upon the horn that brought
A little nearer to his thought
A measureless consummation that he dreamed.
And that enquiring man John Synge comes next,
That dying chose the living world for text
And never could have rested in the tomb
But that, long travelling, he had come
Towards nightfall upon certain set apart
In a most desolate stony place,
Towards nightfall upon a race
Passionate and simple like his heart.
And then I think of old George Pollexfen,
In muscular youth well known to Mayo men
For horsemanship at meets or at racecourses,
That could have shown how pure-bred horses
And solid men, for all their passion, live
But as the outrageous stars incline
By opposition, square and trine;
Having grown sluggish and contemplative.
They were my close companions many a year.
A portion of my mind and life, as it were,
And now their breathless faces seem to look
Out of some old picture-book;
I am accustomed to their lack of breath,
But not that my dear friend's dear son,
Our Sidney and our perfect man,
Could share in that discourtesy of death.
For all things the delighted eye now sees
Were loved by him: the old storm-broken trees
That cast their shadows upon road and bridge;
The tower set on the stream's edge;
The ford where drinking cattle make a stir
Nightly, and startled by that sound
The water-hen must change her ground;
He might have been your heartiest welcomer.
When with the Galway foxhounds he would ride
From Castle Taylor to the Roxborough side
Or Esserkelly plain, few kept his pace;
At Mooneen he had leaped a place
So perilous that half the astonished meet
Had shut their eyes; and where was it
He rode a race without a bit?
And yet his mind outran the horses' feet.
We dreamed that a great painter had been born
To cold Clare rock and Galway rock and thorn,
To that stern colour and that delicate line
That are our secret discipline
Wherein the gazing heart doubles her might.
Soldier, scholar, horseman, he,
And yet he had the intensity
To have published all to be a world's delight.
What other could so well have counselled us
In all lovely intricacies of a house
As he that practised or that understood
All work in metal or in wood,
In moulded plaster or in carven stone?
Soldier, scholar, horseman, he,
And all he did done perfectly
As though he had but that one trade alone.
Some burn damp faggots, others may consume
The entire combustible world in one small room
As though dried straw, and if we turn about
The bare chimney is gone black out
Because the work had finished in that flare.
Soldier, scholar, horseman, he,
As 'twere all life's epitome.
What made us dream that he could comb grey hair?
I had thought, seeing how bitter is that wind
That shakes the shutter, to have brought to mind
All those that manhood tried, or childhood loved
Or boyish intellect approved,
With some appropriatc commentary on each;
Until imagination brought
A fitter welcome; but a thought
Of that late death took all my heart for speech.
Here is my gift, not roses on your grave,
not sticks of burning incense.
You lived aloof, maintaining to the end
your magnificent disdain.
You drank wine, and told the wittiest jokes,
and suffocated inside stifling walls.
Alone you let the terrible stranger in,
and stayed with her alone.
Now you're gone, and nobody says a word
about your troubled and exalted life.
Only my voice, like a flute, will mourn
at your dumb funeral feast.
Oh, who would have dared believe that half-crazed I
, I, sick with grief for the buried past,
I, smoldering on a slow fire,
having lost everything and forgotten all,
would be fated to commemorate a man
so full of strength and will and bright inventions,
who only yesterday it seems, chatted with me,
hiding the tremor of his mortal pain.
My quietness has a man in it, he is transparent
and he carries me quietly, like a gondola, through the streets.
He has several likenesses, like stars and years, like numerals.
My quietness has a number of naked selves,
so many pistols I have borrowed to protect myselves
from creatures who too readily recognize my weapons
and have murder in their heart!
though in winter
they are warm as roses, in the desert
taste of chilled anisette.
At times, withdrawn,
I rise into the cool skies
and gaze on at the imponderable world with the simple identification
of my colleagues, the mountains. Manfred climbs to my nape,
speaks, but I do not hear him,
I'm too blue.
An elephant takes up his trumpet,
money flutters from the windows of cries, silk stretching its mirror
across shoulder blades. A gun is "fired."
One of me rushes
to window #13 and one of me raises his whip and one of me
flutters up from the center of the track amidst the pink flamingoes,
and underneath their hooves as they round the last turn my lips
are scarred and brown, brushed by tails, masked in dirt's lust,
definition, open mouths gasping for the cries of the bettors for the lungs
of earth.
So many of my transparencies could not resist the race!
Terror in earth, dried mushrooms, pink feathers, tickets,
a flaking moon drifting across the muddied teeth,
the imperceptible moan of covered breathing,
love of the serpent!
I am underneath its leaves as the hunter crackles and pants
and bursts, as the barrage balloon drifts behind a cloud
and animal death whips out its flashlight,
whistling
and slipping the glove off the trigger hand. The serpent's eyes
redden at sight of those thorny fingernails, he is so smooth!
My transparent selves
flail about like vipers in a pail, writhing and hissing
without panic, with a certain justice of response
and presently the aquiline serpent comes to resemble the Medusa.
I do not think of you lying in the wet clay
Of a Monaghan graveyard; I see
You walking down a lane among the poplars
On your way to the station, or happily
Going to second Mass on a summer Sunday -
You meet me and you say:
'Don't forget to see about the cattle - '
Among your earthiest words the angels stray.
And I think of you walking along a headland
Of green oats in June,
So full of repose, so rich with life -
And I see us meeting at the end of a town
On a fair day by accident, after
The bargains are all made and we can walk
Together through the shops and stalls and markets
Free in the oriental streets of thought.
O you are not lying in the wet clay,
For it is a harvest evening now and we
Are piling up the ricks against the moonlight
And you smile up at us - eternally.
Beautiful brown mixed with black and white
Eyes that sparkled with the call of going out into nature
Faithful and loyal, true friendship
A darken morning you went out the door
Passed your boundaries not a sound was heard
Helpless and injured
A single insensitive human act
Left me crying and you fighting for your life
How could they just drive away, leave you there?
You tried to fight but time had taken its toll
Younger days had graced your eyes
And the canine pup had seen eleven years pass
I held you in my arms as he said there’s no hope
As your final breath was drawn
We said goodbye and my heart will never be the same
We moved to the country for room to run
Now you run heaven’s golden streets
I lost my best friend from one act from an insensitive human
I took you home to your final resting place
Beside your favorite spot, the big red barn
Near the garden where we played
I wonder this house empty and void
A piece of me lays out back near the big red barn
And your picture remains on the fireplace
In memory of Sir Curley who died April 18,2007
My friend and companion for eleven years
The most loyal German Shepherd a woman could have
Back to the flower-town, side by side,
The bright months bring,
New-born, the bridegroom and the bride,
Freedom and spring.
The sweet land laughs from sea to sea,
Filled full of sun;
All things come back to her, being free;
All things but one.
In many a tender wheaten plot
Flowers that were dead
Live, and old suns revive; but not
That holier head.
By this white wandering waste of sea,
Far north, I hear
One face shall never turn to me
As once this year:
Shall never smile and turn and rest
On mine as there,
Nor one most sacred hand be prest
Upon my hair.
I came as one whose thoughts half linger,
Half run before;
The youngest to the oldest singer
That England bore.
I found him whom I shall not find
Till all grief end,
In holiest age our mightiest mind,
Father and friend.
But thou, if anything endure,
If hope there be,
O spirit that man's life left pure,
Man's death set free,
Not with disdain of days that were
Look earthward now;
Let dreams revive the reverend hair,
The imperial brow;
Come back in sleep, for in the life
Where thou art not
We find none like thee. Time and strife
And the world's lot
Move thee no more; but love at least
And reverent heart
May move thee, royal and released,
Soul, as thou art.
And thou, his Florence, to thy trust
Receive and keep,
Keep safe his dedicated dust,
His sacred sleep.
So shall thy lovers, come from far,
Mix with thy name
As morning-star with evening-star
His faultless fame.
Heavens above! here's an old tie of your--
Sea-green dragons stamped on a golden ground.
Ha! Ha! Ha!  What children we were in those days.
Do you love me enough to wear it now?
Have you the courage of your pristine glories?
Ha! Ha! Ha!  You laugh and shrug your shoulders.
Those were the days when a new tie spelt a fortune:
We wore it in turn--I flaunted it as a waist-belt.
Ha! Ha! Ha!  What easily satisfied babies.
"I think I'll turn into a piano duster."
"Give it to me, I'll polish my slippers on it!"
Ha! Ha! Ha!  The rag's not worth the dustbin.
"Throw the shabby old thing right out of the window;
Fling it into the faces of other children!"
Ha! Ha! Ha!  We laughed and laughed till the tears
came!
Told myself today was gonna be the day
No more excuses~~I knew just what to say
Battin' my eyes, I know what to play
Ah damn, I let the moment slip away
Rackin' my brain~~goin' insane
Contemplatin' on how to let ya know
How it always goes
Losin' my nerve~~feels like I just got served!
Keep tellin' myself  I gotta find a way
Not gonna be afraid like yesterday
I'm so into you~~gotta find out if you are too
Heavy feelin' in my chest
Tryin' to represent my very best
You lookin' at me like I'm broken glass
Hands clampsed together behind your back,
Puzzled, somehow I gotta show you some real class...
Jaw drops, would ya look at that six pack!
I wanna aproach you, let you know how I feel
We had a thing once before
You haven't said one thing since I sat down on the shore
Here comes ya friend, askin' to rub me down
So I don't peel
You must not have approved
One simple glare and off he went with a snare
Finally you decide to take over
Impressing others of your ability to make me laugh
People always said we made a perfect pair!
The muzic plays our song
Instantly we both turn and look at each other
Smiles across our faces~~you offer me your hand
Brushing the sand off, you quickly took notice
My bikini was a thong!
Things went well, for the rest of the evenin'
Tomorrow I'll be back to rackin' my brain
Just gonna chill for now
Take it for what it is~~if it's still aloud.
~~~~~~~~~Ciao~~~~~~~~
Memory
Plays the keys
Of my heart
Just like a Baby Grand
The melody-the tune
All off key
In an orchestra
Of fine tuned instruments
I follow the music
With my minds eye
To where-ever it leads me
And into the depths of Ballads
Of  'HeartBreak'
I, at last find myself
Locked-tethered-chained
To memories, bitter and sweet
Despairing and off key with no
Harmony, in the least
A re-write is in order, STAT
A re-play-a fine tuning, immediately
A re-awakening, a re-newing-NOW:
Of Hope
Of Hope That Sings
You know, that feeling, with wings
Oh Britain! dear Isle, when the annals of story
Shall tell of the deeds that thy children have done,
When the strains of each poet shall sing of their glory,
And the triumphs their skill and their valour have won.
When the olive and palm in thy chaplet are blended,
When thy arts, and thy fame, and thy commerce increase,
When thy arms through the uttermost coasts are extended,
And thy war is triumphant, and happy thy peace;
When the ocean, whose waves like a rampart flow round thee,
Conveying thy mandates to every shore,
And the empire of nature no longer can bound thee,
And the world be the scene of thy conquests no more:
Remember the man who in sorrow and danger,
When thy glory was set, and thy spirit was low,
When thy hopes were o'erturned by the arms of the stranger,
And thy banners displayed in the halls of the foe,
Stood forth in the tempest of doubt and disaster,
Unaided, and single, the danger to brave.
Asserted thy claims, and the rights of his master,
Preserved thee to conquer, and saved thee to save.
"Fate snatch'd him early to the pitying sky."
- POPE.
IF WORTH, too early to the grave consign'd,
Can claim the pitying tear, or touch the mind ?
If manly sentiments unstain'd by art,
Could waken FRIENDSHIP, or delight the heart ?
Ill-fated youth ! to THEE the MUSE shall pay
The last sad tribute of a mournful lay;
On thy lone grave shall MAY'S soft dews be shed,
And fairest flowrets blossom o'er thy head;
The drooping lily, and the snow-drop pale,
Mingling their fragrant leaves, shall there recline,
While CHERUBS hov'ring on th' ethereal gale,
Shall chaunt a requiem o'er the hallow'd shrine.
And if Reflection's piercing eye should scan
The trivial frailties of imperfect MAN;
If in thy generous heart those passions dwelt,
Which all should own, and all that live have felt;
Yet was thy polish'd mind so pure, so brave,
The young admir'd thee, and the old forgave.
And when stern FATE, with ruthless rancour, press'd
Thy withering graces to her flinty breast;
Bright JUSTICE darted from her bless'd abode,
And bore thy VIRTUES to the throne of GOD;
While cold OBLIVION stealing o'er thy mind,
Each youthful folly to the grave consign'd.
O, if thy purer spirit deigns to know
Each thought that passes in this vale of woe,
Accept the incense of a tender tear,
By PITY wafted on a sigh sincere.
And if the weeping MUSE a wreath could give
To grace thy tomb, and bid thy VIRTUES live;
THEN Wealth should blush the gilded mask to wear,
And Avarice shrink the victim of Despair.
While GENIUS bending o'er thy sable bier,
Should mourn her darling SON with many a tear,
While in her pensive form the world should view
The ONLY PARENT that thy SORROWS knew.
A gentle touch upon the forearm
with a hand, gloved or warm with life,
outside the church door;
turning away from the open grave;
by that concrete place
where they lay the floral tributes
by the cemetery chapel;
or later, as you hand the food around;
a gentle touch upon the forearm
or a hand sought for to squeeze and hold; or
man to man, they favour a shoulder briefly gripped,
as if that’s the pressure point
where empathetic camaraderie should be applied;
the single sentence of consolation,
sometimes so well rehearsed, it comes out awkwardly –
‘she’ll be much missed…’
‘you have so many memories…’
‘he’ll always be there in our hearts…’
‘if there’s anything…’
they’ve been through this, themselves,
or fear the time they shall –
…‘words must be said,
but yet there are no words for this;
accept then, these few words
in lieu of that deep silence
which is itself in lieu of words…’
*  * *
measured, immutable, as precise
as any equation of the calculated world,
the heart’s memories:
every moment that our heart in many years
opened to them, the heart has stored.
We know the mind can span the imagined world –
from travel brochures to the thought of heaven;
yet we forget that greater still, the heart is vast –
there’s all the room for them to live on there,
sustained by every moment of love freely given; for
the whole creation is one single act of love.
[written for a bereavement website]
I thank the loss of my memory
Of those days when I had not a friend
I am thankful to the memory
Of those great moments when we are together
I thank the loss of my memory
Of those seconds prior to your reasonableness
I am thankful to the memory
Of the great dimple when you smile
I thank the loss of my memory
Prior to the reduction of your anger
I am thankful to the memory
Of those great sharing moments of your success
I thank the loss of my memory
For the reasons of our arguments
I am thankful to the greatest
Moments of my life with you.
I remember well, the curse of Sarajevo
My friends cheering, the black line
'We will be home before Christmas'.
I joined because friends had joined.
Friends always.
Haunted by the poster saying,
'What did you do in the war dad'?
I survived the training, a young, well read
healthy man.
Sworn at and cursed by the old Boer war
Survivors.
Putting on the loose, ill fitting uniform
Like sheep. Docile sheep.
Trying to believe what I was doing was right.
When the fighting began, I was in a trench.
Stinking mud of bodies, faeces and rats.
The noise of the guns, thundering and scarring me.
So there is no sleep and I cannot think.
Whistles blowing, shouts of the officers
Making me mount the ladder and see
No-mans land for the first time.
Is this what I am fighting for?
Before I could think anymore,
A punch in the chest drops me to the
Dirt, soldiers treading on me.
I cannot breathe and I want to sleep.
I am far from home.
I.
See! what an undisturbed teare
She weepes for her last sleepe;
But, viewing her, straight wak'd a Star,
She weepes that she did weepe.
II.
Griefe ne're before did tyranize
On th' honour of that brow,
And at the wheeles of her brave eyes
Was captive led til now.
III.
Thus, for a saints apostacy
The unimagin'd woes
And sorrowes of the Hierarchy
None but an angel knowes.
IV.
Thus, for lost soules recovery
The clapping of all wings
And triumphs of this victory
None but an angel sings.
V.
So none but she knows to bemone
This equal virgins fate,
None but LUCASTA can her crowne
Of glory celebrate.
VI.
Then dart on me (CHAST LIGHT) one ray,
By which I may discry
Thy joy cleare through this cloudy day
To dresse my sorrow by.
The wind skirts
the lake
fingering the hem
of your skirt
before lifting it to
take a peak
underneath.
Wot a cheek!
Wot a cheek!
Naughty wind!
Naughty wind!
Naughty wind!
...naughty!
But I don't mind!
Press rewind!
Memory 69,699
- again!
I split the atoms
apart
(looking for the heart of the matter)
glued molecules together
to a precise piece of
Space and Time
(and hoped to God that God
didn’t mind) .
I sifted through
Eternity and Memory
and tried to create
just what it was
like to be
kissed by you
but I found I couldn’t
re - create
the tiniest touch
only emptiness and chaos
swam into view
and I remembered
that I had lost you
in a summer somewhere
beyond the power of love.
Do you ever hear a haunting refrain,
Which takes you back to that moment again,
When memories flow and scenes are set,
And you, once more, relive the time you met.
How perfect, were those days back then,
Those days of romance, and the instant, when
Love hit you with a painful jolt,
And exquisite pain, you didn't want to halt,
And playing along was a haunting refrain,
So let it now take you, down memory lane.
©   Ernestine Northover
You say love is this, love is that:
Poplar tassels, willow tendrils
the wind and the rain comb,
tinkle and drip, tinkle and drip--
branches drifting apart. Hagh!
Love has not even visited this country.
Every old man I see
Reminds me of my father
When he had fallen in love with death
One time when sheaves were gathered.
That man I saw in Gardner Street
Stumbled on the kerb was one,
He stared at me half-eyed,
I might have been his son.
And I remember the musician
Faltering over his fiddle
In Bayswater, London,
He too set me the riddle.
Every old man I see
In October-coloured weather
Seems to say to me:
"I was once your father."
Memory of sun seeps from the heart.
Grass grows yellower.
Faintly if at all the early snowflakes
Hover, hover.
Water becoming ice is slowing in
The narrow channels.
Nothing at all will happen here again,
Will ever happen.
Against the sky the willow spreads a fan
The silk's torn off.
Maybe it's better I did not become
Your wife.
Memory of sun seeps from the heart.
What is it? -- Dark?
Perhaps! Winter will have occupied us
In the night.
you've been gone for quite some time
but the memory of you still lives on
it seems just like yesterday you left
my heart can still feel the pain
every birthday
every holiday
i wish i could spend with you
like the many years before
now i can only share these days with
the memory of your hugs
your voice
the memory of you
i still cry at night
as i think of the past
of all the memories we had
even the ones that were once so faint
they stand out more than ever
you've been gone for quite some time
but the memory of you still lives on
with me!
You are but a memory to my dear heart
that dwindles as each day passes me by.
My heart yearns for you, but you're not there,
only your memory is, and that hurts even more.
The tears are all too real and they follow the pain
my heart feels when it misses you so.
Memory upon memory floods the gates
and soon I begin to drown in them.
Each better than the last but all so sweet and real.
The memory is real but its fading too fast
its uncontrolable, and its evaporating
like dew drops in the sun.
I try to gather them up quickly, place them in a jar, but
the time is quicker than I, and it speeds up the sun's steal.
O I wish you could be here and not just your memory
because you are by far better than the thought of the past.
As each sunset brings forth a new day,
I think about the memory, and the pain it brings
is too immense but the tears are even bigger.
You are but a memory that is quickly fading
and only you can fix that my dear.
Though my heart hurts so much from the pain
only you can save me.
Like each sunset brings forth a new time,
this sunset will bring you to me.
And love back into the mourning heart
I
A wide-spring meadow in a rosy dawn
Bedropt with virgin buds; an orient sky
Fleeced with a dappled cloud but half withdrawn;
A mad wind blowing by,
O'er slopes of rippling grass and glens apart;
A brackened path to a wild-woodland place
A limpid pool with a fair, laughing face
Mirrored within its heart.
II
An ancient garden brimmed with summer sun
Upon a still and slumberous afternoon;
Old walks and pleasances with shadows spun
Where honeyed odors swoon;
A velvet turf with blossoms garlanded;
A hedge of Mary-lilies white and tall;
And, shining out against a lichened wall,
A stately-golden head.
III
An autumn hilltop in the sunset hue,
Pine boughs uptossed against the crystal west,
And, girdled with the twilight dim and blue,
A valley peace-possessed;
A high-sprung heaven stained with colors rare,
A sheen of moonrise on the sea afar,
And, bright and soft as any glimmering star,
Eyes holy as a prayer.
Brightly the sun of summer shone,
Green fields and waving woods upon,
And soft winds wandered by;
Above, a sky of purest blue,
Around, bright flowers of loveliest hue,
Allured the gazer's eye.
But what were all these charms to me,
When one sweet breath of memory
Came gently wafting by?
I closed my eyes against the day,
And called my willing soul away,
From earth, and air, and sky;
That I might simply fancy there
One little flower -- a primrose fair,
Just opening into sight;
As in the days of infancy,
An opening primrose seemed to me
A source of strange delight.
Sweet Memory! ever smile on me;
Nature's chief beauties spring from thee,
Oh, still thy tribute bring!
Still make the golden crocus shine
Among the flowers the most divine,
The glory of the spring.
Still in the wall-flower's fragrance dwell;
And hover round the slight blue bell,
My childhood's darling flower.
Smile on the little daisy still,
The buttercup's bright goblet fill
With all thy former power.
For ever hang thy dreamy spell
Round mountain star and heather bell,
And do not pass away
From sparkling frost, or wreathed snow,
And whisper when the wild winds blow,
Or rippling waters play.
Is childhood, then, so all divine?
Or Memory, is the glory thine,
That haloes thus the past?
Not all divine; its pangs of grief,
(Although, perchance, their stay be brief,)
Are bitter while they last.
Nor is the glory all thine own,
For on our earliest joys alone
That holy light is cast.
With such a ray, no spell of thine
Can make our later pleasures shine,
Though long ago they passed.
Acton
It was a happening,
a moment in time,
some fifty years ago.
I remember
the pull on my shirt,
a plaintive voice
a cry for help,
the revulsion
that I felt.
For standing there,
Iraqi girl,
age close to seven,
dress torn,
sandals broken,
cupped hands
outstretched;
no nose,
no cheek,
no right eye.
staring out
instead
a gap,
a void,
a fly trapped
festering hole.
Horror struck,
I search,
I find a coin,
a silver one,
to give,
to push
into her hand.
I think
girl with only half a face,
please go away,
please leave my view,
seeing you
I ache, I pain,
I hurt,
for you do offend
my sight.
She had run,
had scurried off,
was quickly gone.
Now when I close my eyes.
ask me to tell how it feels
remembering your mother's face
turned to water under the white words
of the man at the shoe store. ask me,
though she tells it better than i do,
not because of her charm
but because it never happened
she says,
no bully salesman swaggering,
no rage, no shame, none of it
ever happened.
i only remember buying you
your first grown up shoes
she smiles. ask me
how it feels.
O MEMORY, thou fond deceiver,
Still importunate and vain,
To former joys recurring ever,
And turning all the past to pain:
Thou, like the world, th' oppress'd oppressing,
Thy smiles increase the wretch's woe:
And he who wants each other blessing
In thee must ever find a foe.
Like a shell on the beach...
My memory lingers on....
The waves carry them in...
The sand erodes their shape
The rain buries them low...
The sun shines them gold...
A stranger picks it up...
Seals it in his palm....
Throws it back into the sea
There in the depth of time..
.My memory lingers on.
When I was young my heart and head were light,
And I was gay and feckless as a colt
Out in the fields, with morning in the may,
Wind on the grass, wings in the orchard bloom.
O thrilling sweet, my joy, when life was free
And all the paths led on from hawthorn-time
Across the carolling meadows into June.
But now my heart is heavy-laden. I sit
Burning my dreams away beside the fire:
For death has made me wise and bitter and strong;
And I am rich in all that I have lost.
O starshine on the fields of long-ago,
Bring me the darkness and the nightingale;
Dim wealds of vanished summer, peace of home,
And silence; and the faces of my friends.
My mind lets go a thousand things
Like dates of wars and deaths of kings,
And yet recalls the very hour--
'T was noon by yonder village tower,
And on the last blue noon in May--
The wind came briskly up this way,
Crisping the brook beside the road;
Then, pausing here, set down its load
Of pine-scents, and shook listlessly
Two petals from that wild-rose tree.
SO shuts the marigold her leaves
At the departure of the sun;
So from the honeysuckle sheaves
The bee goes when the day is done;
So sits the turtle when she is but one,
And so all woe, as I since she is gone.
To some few birds kind Nature hath
Made all the summer as one day:
Which once enjoy'd, cold winter's wrath
As night they sleeping pass away.
Those happy creatures are, that know not yet
The pain to be deprived or to forget.
I oft have heard men say there be
Some that with confidence profess
The helpful Art of Memory:
But could they teach Forgetfulness,
I'd learn; and try what further art could do
To make me love her and forget her too.
ONE had a lovely face,
And two or three had charm,
But charm and face were in vain
Because the mountain grass
Cannot but keep the form
Where the mountain hare has lain.
A pen--to register; a key--
That winds through secret wards
Are well assigned to Memory
By allegoric Bards.
As aptly, also, might be given
A Pencil to her hand;
That, softening objects, sometimes even
Outstrips the heart's demand;
That smooths foregone distress, the lines
Of lingering care subdues,
Long-vanished happiness refines,
And clothes in brighter hues;
Yet, like a tool of Fancy, works
Those Spectres to dilate
That startle Conscience, as she lurks
Within her lonely seat.
Oh! that our lives, which flee so fast,
In purity were such,
That not an image of the past
Should fear that pencil's touch!
Retirement then might hourly look
Upon a soothing scene,
Age steal to his allotted nook
Contented and serene;
With heart as calm as lakes that sleep,
In frosty moonlight glistening;
Or mountain rivers, where they creep
Along a channel smooth and deep,
To their own far-off murmurs listening.
And,
It's raining
Again,
For the pain,
To come down.
Deep to heart,
Deep and deep
To the blood,
And to the bone
To be born
As new again
To the scar
We remember
Forever,
And,
It's raining
To day again
Late, late last night, when the whole world slept,
Along to the garden of dreams I crept.
And I pulled the bell of an old, old house
Where the moon dipped down like a little white mouse.
I tapped the door and I tossed my head:
"Are you in, little girl? Are you in?" I said.
And while I waited and shook with cold
Through the door tripped me---just eight years old.
I looked so sweet with my pigtails down,
Tied up with a ribbon of dusky brown,
With a dimpled chin full of childish charme,
And my old black dolly asleep in my arms.
I sat me down when I saw myself,
And I told little tales of a moonland elf.
I laughed and sang as I used to do
When the world was ruled by Little Boy Blue.
Then I danced with a toss and a twirl
And said: "Now have you been a good, good girl?
Have you had much spanking since you were Me?
And does it feel fine to be twenty-three?"
I kissed me then, and I said farewell,
For I've earned more spanks than I dared to tell,
And Eight must never see Twenty-three
As she peeps through the door of Memory.
Chill penury repress'd his noble rage,
And froze the genial current of his soul.
GRAY.
IF GRIEF can deprecate the wrath of Heaven,
Or human frailty hope to be forgiven !
Ere now thy sainted spirit bends its way
To the bland regions of celestial day;
Ere now, thy soul, immers'd in purest air
Smiles at the triumphs of supreme Despair;
Or bath'd in seas of endless bliss, disdains
The vengeful memory of mortal pains;
Yet shall the MUSE a fond memorial give
To shield thy name, and bid thy GENIUS live.
Too proud for pity, and too poor for praise,
No voice to cherish, and no hand to raise;
Torn, stung, and sated, with this "mortal coil,"
This weary, anxious scene of fruitless toil;
Not all the graces that to youth belong,
Nor all the energies of sacred song;
Nor all that FANCY, all that GENIUS gave,
Could snatch thy wounded spirit from the grave.
Hard was thy lot, from every comfort torn;
In POVERTY'S cold arms condemn'd to mourn;
To live by mental toil, e'en when the brain
Could scarce its trembling faculties sustain;
To mark the dreary minutes slowly creep:
Each day to labour, and each night to weep;
'Till the last murmur of thy frantic soul,
In proud concealment from its mansion stole,
While ENVY springing from her lurid cave,
Snatch'd the young LAURELS from thy rugged grave.
So the pale primrose, sweetest bud of May,
Scarce wakes to beauty, ere it feels decay;
While baleful weeds their hidden n poisons pour,
Choke the green sod, and wither every flow'r.
Immur'd in shades, from busy scenes remov'd;
No sound to solace,­but the verse he lov'd:
No soothing numbers harmoniz'd his ear;
No feeling bosom gave his griefs a tear;
Obscurely born­no gen'rous friend he found
To lead his trembling steps o'er classic ground.
No patron fill'd his heart with flatt'ring hope,
No tutor'd lesson gave his genius scope;
Yet, while poetic ardour nerv'd each thought,
And REASON sanction'd what AMBITION taught;
He soar'd beyond the narrow spells that bind
The slow perceptions of the vulgar mind;
The fire once kindled by the breath of FAME,
Her restless pinions fann'd the glitt'ring flame;
Warm'd by its rays, he thought each vision just;
For conscious VIRTUE seldom feels DISTRUST.
Frail are the charms delusive FANCY shows,
And short the bliss her fickle smile bestows;
Yet the bright prospect pleas'd his dazzled view,
Each HOPE seem'd ripened, and each PHANTOM true;
Fill'd with delight, his unsuspecting mind
Weigh'd not the grov'ling treach'ries of mankind;
For while a niggard boon his Savants supply'd,
And NATURE'S claims subdued the voice of PRIDE:
His timid talents own'd a borrow'd name,
And gain'd by FICTION what was due to FAME.
With secret labour, and with taste refin'd,
This son of mis'ry form'd his infant mind !
When op'ning Reason's earliest scenes began,
The dawn of childhood mark'd the future man !
He scorn'd the puerile sports of vulgar boys,
His little heart aspir'd to nobler joys;
Creative Fancy wing'd his few short hours,
While soothing Hope adorn'd his path with flow'rs,
Yet FAME'S recording hand no trophy gave,
Save the sad TEAR­to decorate his grave.
Yet in this dark, mysterious scene of woe,
Conviction's flame shall shed a radiant glow;
His infant MUSE shall bind with nerves of fire
The sacrilegious hand that stabs its sire.
Methinks, I hear his wand'ring shade complain,
While mournful ECHO lingers on the strain;
Thro' the lone aisle his restless spirit calls,
His phantom glides along the minster's § walls;
Where many an hour his devious footsteps trod,
Ere Fate resign'd him TO HIS PITYING GOD.
Yet, shall the MUSE to gentlest sorrow prone
Adopt his cause, and make his griefs her own;
Ne'er shall her CHATTERTON's neglected name,
Fade in inglorious dreams of doubtful fame;
Shall he, whose pen immortal GENIUS gave,
Sleep unlamented in an unknown grave?
No, ­the fond MUSE shall spurn the base neglect,
The verse she cherish'd she shall still protect.
And if unpitied pangs the mind can move,
Or graceful numbers warm the heart to love;
If the fine raptures of poetic fire
Delight to vibrate on the trembling lyre;
If sorrow claims the kind embalming tear,
Or worth oppress'd, excites a pang sincere?
Some kindred soul shall pour the song divine,
And with the cypress bough the laurel twine,
Whose weeping leaves the wint'ry blast shall wave
In mournful murmurs o'er thy unbless'd grave.
And tho' no lofty VASE or sculptur'd BUST
Bends o'er the sod that hides thy sacred dust;
Tho' no long line of ancestry betrays
The PRIDE of RELATIVES, or POMP of PRAISE.
Tho' o'er thy name a blushing nation rears
OBLIVION'S wing­ to hide REFLECTION'S tears!
Still shall thy verse in dazzling lustre live,
And claim a brighter wreath THAN WEALTH CAN GIVE.
(To have been read before the statue of Lafayette and Washington in Paris, on Decoration Day, May 30, 1916).
I
Ay, it is fitting on this holiday,
Commemorative of our soldier dead,
When -- with sweet flowers of our New England May
Hiding the lichened stones by fifty years made gray --
Their graves in every town are garlanded,
That pious tribute should be given too
To our intrepid few
Obscurely fallen here beyond the seas.
Those to preserve their country's greatness died;
But by the death of these
Something that we can look upon with pride
Has been achieved, nor wholly unreplied
Can sneerers triumph in the charge they make
That from a war where Freedom was at stake
America withheld and, daunted, stood aside.
II
Be they remembered here with each reviving spring,
Not only that in May, when life is loveliest,
Around Neuville-Saint-Vaast and the disputed crest
Of Vimy, they, superb, unfaltering,
In that fine onslaught that no fire could halt,
Parted impetuous to their first assault;
But that they brought fresh hearts and springlike too
To that high mission, and 'tis meet to strew
With twigs of lilac and spring's earliest rose
The cenotaph of those
Who in the cause that history most endears
Fell in the sunny morn and flower of their young years.
III
et sought they neither recompense nor praise,
Nor to be mentioned in another breath
Than their blue coated comrades whose great days
It was their pride to share -- ay, share even to the death!
Nay, rather, France, to you they rendered thanks
(Seeing they came for honor, not for gain),
Who, opening to them your glorious ranks,
Gave them that grand occasion to excel,
That chance to live the life most free from stain
And that rare privilege of dying well.
IV
O friends! I know not since that war began
From which no people nobly stands aloof
If in all moments we have given proof
Of virtues that were thought American.
I know not if in all things done and said
All has been well and good,
Or if each one of us can hold his head
As proudly as he should,
Or, from the pattern of those mighty dead
Whose shades our country venerates to-day,
If we've not somewhat fallen and somewhat gone astray.
But you to whom our land's good name is dear,
If there be any here
Who wonder if her manhood be decreased,
Relaxed its sinews and its blood less red
Than that at Shiloh and Antietam shed,
Be proud of these, have joy in this at least,
And cry: "Now heaven be praised
That in that hour that most imperilled her,
Menaced her liberty who foremost raised
Europe's bright flag of freedom, some there were
Who, not unmindful of the antique debt,
Came back the generous path of Lafayette;
And when of a most formidable foe
She checked each onset, arduous to stem --
Foiled and frustrated them --
On those red fields where blow with furious blow
Was countered, whether the gigantic fray
Rolled by the Meuse or at the Bois Sabot,
Accents of ours were in the fierce melee;
And on those furthest rims of hallowed ground
Where the forlorn, the gallant charge expires,
When the slain bugler has long ceased to sound,
And on the tangled wires
The last wild rally staggers, crumbles, stops,
Withered beneath the shrapnel's iron showers: --
Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops;
Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours."
V
There, holding still, in frozen steadfastness,
Their bayonets toward the beckoning frontiers,
They lie -- our comrades -- lie among their peers,
Clad in the glory of fallen warriors,
Grim clusters under thorny trellises,
Dry, furthest foam upon disastrous shores,
Leaves that made last year beautiful, still strewn
Even as they fell, unchanged, beneath the changing moon;
And earth in her divine indifference
Rolls on, and many paltry things and mean
Prate to be heard and caper to be seen.
But they are silent, calm; their eloquence
Is that incomparable attitude;
No human presences their witness are,
But summer clouds and sunset crimson-hued,
And showers and night winds and the northern star.
Nay, even our salutations seem profane,
Opposed to their Elysian quietude;
Our salutations calling from afar,
From our ignobler plane
And undistinction of our lesser parts:
Hail, brothers, and farewell; you are twice blest, brave hearts.
Double your glory is who perished thus,
For you have died for France and vindicated us.
Soul of the Poet ! wheresoe'er,
Reclaimed from earth, thy genius plume
Her wings of immortality ;
Suspend thy harp in happier sphere,
And with thine influence illume
The gladness of our jubilee.
And fly like fiends from secret spell,
Discord and Strife, at Burn's name,
Exorcised by his memory ;
For he was chief of bards that swell
The heart with songs of social flame,
And high delicious revelry.
And Love's own strain to him was given,
To warble all its ecstacies
With Pythian words unsought, unwilled,—
Love, the surviving gift of Heaven
The choicest sweet of Paradise,
In life's else bitter cup distilled.
Who that has melted o'er his lay
To Mary's soul, in Heaven above ,
But pictured sees, in fancy strong,
The landscape and the livelong day
That smiled upon their mutual love ?
Who that has felt forgets the song ?
Nor skilled one flame alone to fan:
His country's high-souled peasantry
What patriot-pride he taught !—how much
To weigh the inborn worth of man !
And rustic life and poverty
Grow beautiful beneath his touch.
Him, in his clay-built cot, the Muse
Entranced, and showed him all the forms,
Of fairy-light and wizard gloom,
(That only gifted Poet views,)
The Genii of the floods and storms,
And martial shades from Glory's tomb.
On Bannock-field what thoughts arouse
The swain whom Burns's song inspires !
Beat not his Caledonian veins,
As o'er the heroic turf he ploughs,
With all the spirit of his sires,
And all their scorn of death and chains ?
And see the Scottish exile, tanned
By many a far and foreign clime,
Bend o'er his home-born verse, and weep
In memory of his native land,
With love that scorns the lapse of time,
And ties that stretch beyond the deep.
Encamped by Indian rivers wild,
The soldier resting on his arms,
In Burns's carol sweet recalls
The scenes that blessed him when a child,
And glows and gladdens at the charms
Of Scotia's woods and waterfalls.
O deem not, 'midst this worldly strife,
An idle art the Poet brings:
Let high Philosophy control,
And sages calm the stream of life,
'T is he refines its fountain-springs,
The nobler passions of the soul.
It is the muse that consecrates
The native banner of the brave,
Unfurling, at the trumpet's breath,
Rose, thistle, harp ; 't is she elates
To sweep the field or ride the wave,
A sunburst in the storm of death.
And thou, young hero , when thy pall
Is crossed with mournful sword and plume,
When public grief begins to fade,
And only tears of kindred fall,
Who but the bard shall dress thy tomb,
And greet with fame thy gallant shade ?
Such was the soldier—Burns, forgive
That sorrows of mine own intrude
In strains to thy great memory due.
In verse like thine, oh ! Could he live,
The friend I mourned—the brave—the good
Edward that died at Waterloo !*
Farewell, high chief of Scottish song !
That couldst alternately impart
Wisdom and rapture in thy page,
And brand each vice with satire strong,
Whose lines are mottoes of the heart?
Whose truths electrify the sage.
Farewell ! and ne'er may Envy dare
To wring one baleful poison drop
From the crushed laurels of thy bust ;
But while the lark sings sweet in air,
Still may the grateful pilgrim stop,
To bless the spot that holds thy dust.
O THOUGHT, fly to her when the end of day
Awakens an old memory, and say,
'Your strength, that is so lofty and fierce and kind,
It might call up a new age, calling to mind
The queens that were imagined long ago,
Is but half yours:  he kneaded in the dough
Through the long years of youth, and who would have thought
It all, and more than it all, would come to naught,
And that dear words meant nothing?'  But enough,
For when we have blamed the wind we can blame love;
Or, if there needs be more, be nothing said
That would be harsh for children that have strayed.
When Faith and Love, which parted from thee never,
Had ripened thy just soul to dwell with God,
Meekly thou didst resign this earthly load
Of death, called life, which us from life doth sever.
Thy works, and alms, and all thy good endeavour,
Stayed not behind, nor in the grave were trod;
But, as Faith pointed with her golden rod,
Followed thee up to joy and bliss for ever.
Love led them on; and Faith, who knew them best
Thy handmaids, clad them o’er with purple beams
And azure wings, that up they flew so drest,
And speak the truth of thee on glorious themes
Before the Judge; who henceforth bid thee rest,
And drink thy fill of pure immortal streams.
Remorse -  is Memory -  awake -
Her Parties all astir -
A Presence of Departed Acts -
At window -  and at Door -
Its Past -  set down before the Soul
And lighted with a Match -
Perusal -  to facilitate -
And help Belief to stretch -
Remorse is cureless -  the Disease
Not even God -  can heal -
For 'tis His institution -  and
The Adequate of Hell -
Memory, hither come,
And tune your merry notes;
And, while upon the wind
Your music floats,
I'll pore upon the stream
Where sighing lovers dream,
And fish for fancies as they pass
Within the watery glass.
I'll drink of the clear stream,
And hear the linnet's song;
And there I'll lie and dream
The day along:
And, when night comes, I'll go
To places fit for woe,
Walking along the darken'd valley
With silent Melancholy.
So bends beneath the storm yon balmy flow'r,
Whose spicy blossoms once perfum'd the gale;
So press'd with tears reclines yon lily pale,
Obedient to the rude and beating show'r.
Still is the LARK, that hov'ring o'er yon spray,
With jocund carol usher'd in the morn;
And mute the NIGHTINGALE, whose tender lay
Melted the feeling mind with sounds forlorn:
More sweet, MARIA, was thy plaintive strain!
That strain is o'er; but mem'ry ne'er shall fade,
When erst it cheer'd grey twilight's dreary shade,
And charm'd the sorrow-stricken soul from pain;
STILL, STILL, melodious maid, thy dulcet song
Shall breathe, immortal, on an ANGEL'S TONGUE!
Circa 1904 -- Done out of Boethius by Geoffrey Chaucer
Blessed was our first age and morning-time. Then were no
waies tarren, ne no cars numberen, but each followed his owne
playing-busyness to go about singly or by large interspaces,
for to leden his viage after his luste and layen under clene hedge.
Jungling there was not, nor the overtaking wheele, and all those
now cruel clarions were full-hushed and full-still. Then nobile
horses, lest they should make the chariots moveable to run by
cause of this new feare, we did not press, and were apayed by
sweete thankes of him that drave. There was not cursings ne
adventure of death blinded bankes betweene, but good-fellowship
of yoke-mates at ignorance equal, and a one pillar of dust cov-
ered all exodus.... But, see now how the blacke road hath
strippen herself of hearte and beauty where the dumbe lampe of
Tartarus winketh red, etc.
THE WATERS make a music low:
The river reeds
Are trembling to the tunes of long ago—
Dead days and deeds
Become alive again, as on
I float, and float,
Through shadows of the golden summers gone
And springs remote.
Above my head the trees bloom out
In white and red
Great blossoms, that make glad the air about;
And old suns shed
Their rays athwart them. Ah, the light
Is bright and fair!
No suns that shine upon me now are bright
As those suns were.
And, gazing down into the stream,
I see a face,
As sweet as buds that blossom in a dream,
Ere sorrows chase
Fair dreams from men, and send in lieu
Sad thoughts. A wreath
Of blue-bells binds the head—a bluer blue
The eyes beneath.
This is my little Annie’s face;
My child-sweetheart
Whom long ago I lost in that dark place
Where all lives part.
Beside me still I see her stand,
Who is no more.
She walked with me through childhood, hand in hand,
But at the door
Of youth departed from me. Fain
Was I that day
To go with her. Ah, sweetheart, come again
This First of May!
and then in between remarks,
you fall silent, still, the eyes
not far away but rather,
seeing the faraway right here
and those who know you
or who know the feeling of themselves,
know where you are
how describe that place
where a lifetime’s memories are stored,
clean, precise, waiting, neglected, seemingly forgotten?
is it a castle; a linen closet; a box room, that place in the inner mind?
rather, it seems a library, of the books that life writes
and there comes a moment in between remarks
when the present offers nothing, so it seems;
and your mind leaves the assembled company,
walks into that quiet room, its shelves so carefully arranged
by someone unknown to you, a librarian
who knows you better than you know yourself;
I sit down in that green leather armchair, quietly;
but such the power of the memory of you
the pure essence of the memory of memory itself
that I need not reach to take that well-read book down again
but simply glance towards that place; on that shelf; where it rests;
sit, for a minute of eternity; rediscover myself;
then rise; walk, the back erect, dignified;
the stature taller for the memory of whom I am;
turning the smooth handle of the door as it closes, and
beyond all love, the watching;
freedom that makes the whole world live anew
Divorced, but friends again at last,
we walk old ground together
in bright blue uncomplicated weather.
We laugh and pause
to hack to bits these tiny dinosaurs,
prehistoric, crenelated, cast
between the tractor ruts in mud.
On the green, a junior Douglas Fairbanks,
swinging on the chestnut's unlit chandelier,
defies the corporation spears--
a single rank around the bole,
rusty with blood.
Green, tacky phalluses curve up, romance
A gust--the old flag blazes on its pole.
In the village bakery
the pastry babies pass
from milky slump to crusty cadaver,
from crib to coffin--without palaver.
All's over in a flash,
too silently...
Tonight the arum lilies fold
back napkins monogrammed in gold,
crisp and laundered fresh.
Those crustaceous gladioli, on the sly,
reveal the crimson flower-flesh
inside their emerald armor plate.
The uncooked herrings blink a tearful eye.
The candles palpitate.
The Oistrakhs bow and scrape
in evening dress, on Emi-tape.
Outside the trees are bending over backwards
to please the wind : the shining sword
grass flattens on its belly.
The white-thorn's frillies offer no resistance.
In the fridge, a heart-shaped jelly
strives to keep a sense of balance.
I slice up the onions. You sew up a dress.
This is the quiet echo--flesh--
white muscle on white muscle,
intimately folded skin,
finished with a satin rustle.
One button only to undo, sewn up with shabby thread.
It is the onion, memory,
that makes me cry.
Because there's everything and nothing to be said,
the clock with hands held up before its face,
stammers softly on, trying to complete a phrase--
while we, together and apart,
repeat unfinished festures got by heart.
And afterwards, I blunder with the washing on the line--
headless torsos, faceless lovers, friends of mine.
As she lay dying with the radio playing softly in the background,
The notes of a song so sweet tickled and triggered her memory,
Number one in the charts the week she was born,
Playing at her eighteenth birthday party as she floated and swayed in a glorious dance,
The first dance with her first and only boyfriend was during this melody,
Playing at their wedding as a song they claimed ‘theirs’,
Playing its gentle coaxing notes as she made love with her husband on their wedding night,
Had danced and spun to it with her children, spinning them in her arms until all fell to the floor in a dizzy heap,
Now it plays softly in the background as her life slowly trickles away from her,
As she loses that once firm hold on a life so dear,
Triggering her memory to a life that would end with the last single note of a now bittersweet symphony.
The very memory of your smile
The thoughts of seeing you again
Make each day worth while
Even as I feel the falling rain
Don't take my dreams away
Tell me, you'll come sometime
My hope lies on what you say
Promise me you'll come sometime
Don't make me wait forever baby
Or until my days of prime are done
I only wanna make you happy
In a world that’s yours and mine
What more can I say or write
Give me a chance to make it show
There's a flame that you ignite
It never dies though winds may blow
You are abruptly lost
Like a kite
flying on raw threads
Your loss is my memory
Your face hangs in the sky
Against the wind
Oh! your memory!
my words are far away from
The metaphors that could hold on
you to the landscape of my mind
Your memory sings against language
or sounds
You defy my familiar tools
And dimly expose an unknown
familiar to ages
and ages of our species
Strange Power, I know not what thou art,
Murderer or mistress of my heart.
I know I'd rather meet the blow
Of my most unrelenting foe
Than live---as now I live---to be
Slain twenty times a day by thee.
Yet, when I would command thee hence,
Thou mockest at the vain pretence,
Murmuring in mine ear a song
Once loved, alas! forgotten long;
And on my brow I feel a kiss
That I would rather die than miss.
Oh in this dearth and winter of the soul,
When even Hope, still wont to soar and sing,
Droopeth, a starveling bird whose downy wing
Stiffens ere dead through the dank drift it fall--
Yea, ere Hope perish utterly, I call
On thee, fond Memory, that thou haste and bring
One leaf, one blossom from that far-off spring
When love's auroral light lay over all.
Bring but one pansy: haply so the thrill
Of poignant yearning for those glad dead years
May, like the gusty south, breathe o'er the chill
Of frozen grief, dissolving it in tears,
Till numb Hope, stirred by that warm dropping rain,
Will deem, perchance, Love's springtide come again.
A gentle spirit now above
Once animated what lies here
Till heav'n announc'd in tenderest love
"Ascend Immortal to yon sphere."
The lambkin at the great behest
Gave up its life without one groan;
When lo! In robes supernal drest
He found the bright abodes his own!
Most glorious and delightful scenes
Rush'd full upon his raptur'd sense;
Beyond what fancy ever dreams,
Or Eden knew in innocence.
Adieu! Adieu! My sweest boy,
Adieu till life's vain dream be o'er;
Then with a parent's keenest joy
I'll cling to Thee to part no more.
Petals torn from faded roses,
Memories stored in jars.
Photographs with different poses,
To worship from afar.
Love has gone from her heart,
Sadness fills his soul.
What of the vow to never part?
To live two lives, as a whole?
Emptiness fills the days,
Loneliness the nights.
Through teary eyes filled with haze,
She remembers all their fights.
What of the love they shared?
Could it be it's only hiding?
Or has it simply disappeared,
from lack of simple trying?
It seems a waste, an awful shame,
That love should part,
Just as it came...
With very little effort.
Let's raise a glass-
To the memory of love.
Farewell, too little and too lately known,
Whom I began to think and call my own;
For sure our souls were near allied, and thine
Cast in the same poetic mould with mine.
One common note on either lyre did strike,
And knaves and fools we both abhorred alike.
To the same goal did both our studies drive;
The last set out the soonest did arrive.
Thus Nisus fell upon the slippery place,
While his young friend performed and won the race.
O early ripe! to thy abundant store
What could advancing age have added more?
It might (what Nature never gives the young)
Have taught the numbers of thy native tongue.
But satire needs not those, and wit will shine
Through the harsh cadence of a rugged line.
A noble error, and but seldom made,
When poets are by too much force betrayed.
Thy generous fruits, though gathered ere their prime,
Still showed a quickness; and maturing time
But mellows what we write to the dull sweets of rhyme.
Once more, hail and farewell! farewell, thou young,
But ah too short, Marcellus of our tongue!
Thy brows with ivy and with laurels bound;
But fate and gloomy night encompass thee around.
The day returns again, my natal day;
What mix'd emotions with the Thought arise!
Beloved friend, four years have pass'd away
Since thou wert snatch'd forever from our eyes.--
The day, commemorative of my birth
Bestowing Life and Light and Hope on me,
Brings back the hour which was thy last on Earth.
Oh! bitter pang of torturing Memory!--
Angelic Woman! past my power to praise
In Language meet, thy Talents, Temper, mind.
Thy solid Worth, they captivating Grace!--
Thou friend and ornament of Humankind!--
At Johnson's death by Hamilton t'was said,
'Seek we a substitute--Ah! vain the plan,
No second best remains to Johnson dead--
None can remind us even of the Man.'
So we of thee--unequall'd in thy race
Unequall'd thou, as he the first of Men.
Vainly we wearch around the vacant place,
We ne'er may look upon thy like again.
Come then fond Fancy, thou indulgant Power,--
--Hope is desponding, chill, severe to thee!--
Bless thou, this little portion of an hour,
Let me behold her as she used to be.
I see her here, with all her smiles benign,
Her looks of eager Love, her accents sweet.
That voice and Countenance almost divine!--
Expression, Harmony, alike complete.--
I listen--'tis not sound alone--'tis sense,
'Tis Genius, Taste and Tenderness of Soul.
'Tis genuine warmth of heart without pretence
And purity of Mind that crowns the whole.
She speaks; 'tis Eloquence--that grace of Tongue
So rare, so lovely!--Never misapplied
By her to palliate Vice, or deck a Wrong,
She speaks and reasons but on Virtue's side.
Her's is the Engergy of Soul sincere.
Her Christian Spirit ignorant to feign,
Seeks but to comfort, heal, enlighten, chear,
Confer a pleasure, or prevent a pain.--
Can ought enhance such Goodness?--Yes, to me,
Her partial favour from my earliest years
Consummates all.--Ah! Give me yet to see
Her smile of Love.--the Vision diappears.
'Tis past and gone--We meet no more below.
Short is the Cheat of Fancy o'er the Tomb.
Oh! might I hope to equal Bliss to go!
To meet thee Angel! in thy future home!--
Fain would I feel an union in thy fate,
Fain would I seek to draw an Omen fair
From this connection in our Earthly date.
Indulge the harmless weakness--Reason, spare.--
BEYOND where billows roll or tempests vex
Is gone the gentlest of the gentle sex!
---Her brittle bark on life's wild ocean tost
Unequal to the conflict soon was lost.
Severe her sufferings! much, alas, she bore,
Then sunk beneath the storm & rose no more.
But when th' Archangel's awful trump shall sound
And vibrate life thro all the deep profound
Her renovated vessel will be seen,
Transcendant floating on the silver stream!
All beauteous to behold! serene she glides
Borne on by mildest & propitious tides;
While fanning zephyrs fill her snow white sails
And aid her passage with the friendliest gales
Till safe within the destin'd port of bliss
She furls her sails and moors in endless peace.
Thou youngest virgin-daughter of the skies,
Made in the last promotion of the Blest;
Whose palms, new pluck'd from Paradise,
In spreading branches more sublimely rise,
Rich with immortal green above the rest:
Whether, adopted to some neighbouring star,
Thou roll'st above us, in thy wand'ring race,
Or, in procession fix'd and regular,
Mov'd with the Heavens' majestic pace:
Or, call'd to more superior bliss,
Thou tread'st, with seraphims, the vast abyss.
What ever happy region is thy place,
Cease thy celestial song a little space;
(Thou wilt have time enough for hymns divine,
Since Heav'n's eternal year is thine.)
Hear then a mortal Muse thy praise rehearse,
In no ignoble verse;
But such as thy own voice did practise here,
When thy first fruits of poesy were giv'n;
To make thyself a welcome inmate there:
While yet a young probationer,
And Candidate of Heav'n.
If by traduction came thy mind,
Our wonder is the less to find
A soul so charming from a stock so good;
Thy father was transfus'd into thy blood:
So wert thou born into the tuneful strain,
(An early, rich, and inexhausted vein.)
But if thy preexisting soul
Was form'd, at first, with myriads more,
It did through all the mighty poets roll,
Who Greek or Latin laurels wore,
And was that Sappho last, which once it was before.
If so, then cease thy flight, O Heav'n-born mind!
Thou hast no dross to purge from thy rich ore:
Nor can thy soul a fairer mansion find,
Than was the beauteous frame she left behind:
Return, to fill or mend the choir, of thy celestial kind.
May we presume to say, that at thy birth,
New joy was sprung in Heav'n as well as here on earth.
For sure the milder planets did combine
On thy auspicious horoscope to shine,
And ev'n the most malicious were in trine.
Thy brother-angels at thy birth
Strung each his lyre, and tun'd it high,
That all the people of the sky
Might know a poetess was born on earth;
And then if ever, mortal ears
Had heard the music of the spheres!
And if no clust'ring swarm of bees
On thy sweet mouth distill'd their golden dew,
'Twas that, such vulgar miracles,
Heav'n had not leisure to renew:
For all the blest fraternity of love
Solemniz'd there thy birth, and kept thy Holyday above.
O Gracious God! How far have we
Profan'd thy Heav'nly gift of poesy?
Made prostitute and profligate the Muse,
Debas'd to each obscene and impious use,
Whose harmony was first ordain'd above
For tongues of angels, and for hymns of love?
O wretched we! why were we hurried down
This lubrique and adult'rate age,
(Nay added fat pollutions of our own)
T'increase the steaming ordures of the stage?
What can we say t'excuse our Second Fall?
Let this thy vestal, Heav'n, atone for all!
Her Arethusian stream remains unsoil'd,
Unmix'd with foreign filth, and undefil'd,
Her wit was more than man, her innocence a child!
Art she had none, yet wanted none:
For Nature did that want supply,
So rich in treasures of her own,
She might our boasted stores defy:
Such noble vigour did her verse adorn,
That it seem'd borrow'd, where 'twas only born.
Her morals too were in her bosom bred
By great examples daily fed,
What in the best of Books, her Father's Life, she read.
And to be read her self she need not fear,
Each test, and ev'ry light, her Muse will bear,
Though Epictetus with his lamp were there.
Ev'n love (for love sometimes her Muse express'd)
Was but a lambent-flame which play'd about her breast:
Light as the vapours of a morning dream,
So cold herself, whilst she such warmth express'd,
'Twas Cupid bathing in Diana's stream.
Born to the spacious empire of the Nine,
One would have thought, she should have been content
To manage well that mighty government;
But what can young ambitious souls confine?
To the next realm she stretch'd her sway,
For painture near adjoining lay,
A plenteous province, and alluring prey.
A chamber of dependences was fram'd,
(As conquerors will never want pretence,
When arm'd, to justify th'offence)
And the whole fief, in right of poetry she claim'd.
The country open lay without defence:
For poets frequent inroads there had made,
And perfectly could represent
The shape, the face, with ev'ry lineament:
And all the large domains which the Dumb-sister sway'd,
All bow'd beneath her government,
Receiv'd in triumph wheresoe'er she went,
Her pencil drew, what e'er her soul design'd,
And oft the happy draught surpass'd the image in her mind.
The sylvan scenes of herds and flocks,
And fruitful plains and barren rocks,
Of shallow brooks that flow'd so clear,
The bottom did the top appear;
Of deeper too and ampler floods,
Which as in mirrors, show'd the woods;
Of lofty trees, with sacred shades,
And perspectives of pleasant glades,
Where nymphs of brightest form appear,
And shaggy satyrs standing near,
Which them at once admire and fear.
The ruins too of some majestic piece,
Boasting the pow'r of ancient Rome or Greece,
Whose statues, friezes, columns broken lie,
And tho' defac'd, the wonder of the eye,
What Nature, art, bold fiction e'er durst frame,
Her forming hand gave feature to the name.
So strange a concourse ne'er was seen before,
But when the peopl'd Ark the whole creation bore.
The scene then chang'd, with bold erected look
Our martial king the sight with reverence strook:
For not content t'express his outward part,
Her hand call'd out the image of his heart,
His warlike mind, his soul devoid of fear,
His high-designing thoughts, were figur'd there,
As when, by magic, ghosts are made appear.
Our phoenix queen was portray'd too so bright,
Beauty alone could beauty take so right:
Her dress, her shape, her matchless grace,
Were all observ'd, as well as heav'nly face.
With such a peerless majesty she stands,
As in that day she took the crown from sacred hands:
Before a train of heroines was seen,
In beauty foremost, as in rank, the queen!
Thus nothing to her genius was deny'd,
But like a ball of fire the further thrown,
Still with a greater blaze she shone,
And her bright soul broke out on ev'ry side.
What next she had design'd, Heaven only knows,
To such immod'rate growth her conquest rose,
That fate alone its progress could oppose.
Now all those charms, that blooming grace,
The well-proportion'd shape, and beauteous face,
Shall never more be seen by mortal eyes;
In earth the much lamented virgin lies!
Not wit, not piety could fate prevent;
Nor was the cruel destiny content
To finish all the murder at a blow,
To sweep at once her life, and beauty too;
But, like a harden'd felon, took a pride
To work more mischievously slow,
And plunder'd first, and then destroy'd.
O double sacrilege on things divine,
To rob the relique, and deface the shrine!
But thus Orinda died:
Heav'n, by the same disease, did both translate,
As equal were their souls, so equal was their fate.
Meantime her warlike brother on the seas
His waving streamers to the winds displays,
And vows for his return, with vain devotion, pays.
Ah, generous youth, that wish forbear,
The winds too soon will waft thee here!
Slack all thy sails, and fear to come,
Alas, thou know'st not, thou art wreck'd at home!
No more shalt thou behold thy sister's face,
Thou hast already had her last embrace.
But look aloft, and if thou ken'st from far,
Among the Pleiad's, a new-kindl'd star,
If any sparkles, than the rest, more bright,
'Tis she that shines in that propitious light.
When in mid-air, the golden trump shall sound,
To raise the nations under ground;
When in the valley of Jehosophat,
The Judging God shall close the book of fate;
And there the last Assizes keep,
For those who wake, and those who sleep;
When rattling bones together fly,
From the four corners of the sky,
When sinews o'er the skeletons are spread,
Those cloth'd with flesh, and life inspires the dead;
The sacred poets first shall hear the sound,
And foremost from the tomb shall bound:
For they are cover'd with the lightest ground,
And straight, with in-born vigour, on the wing,
Like mounting larks, to the new morning sing.
There thou, sweet saint, before the choir shall go,
As harbinger of Heav'n, the way to show,
The way which thou so well hast learn'd below.
Travelling down the memory lane
is not all black 'n white.
Travelling down the memory lane
is not all lacking light.
Travelling down the memory lane
is not eye filled with tears.
Travelling down the memory lane
brings fresh and soothing air.
Travelling down the memory lane
is college, fun and friend.
Travelling down the memory lane
is full of curves and bends.
Travelling down the memory lane
is a test of time and mind
Travelling down the memory lane
is a joy of it's kind.
Poet: Spandan Bhattacharyya
(Nicola Sacco -- Bartolomeo Vanzetti)
Executed August 23, 1927
I
As men have loved their lovers in times past
And sung their wit, their virtue and their grace,
So have we loved sweet Justice to the last,
That now lies here in an unseemly place.
The child will quit the cradle and grow wise
And stare on beauty till his senses drown;
Yet shall be seen no more by mortal eyes
Such beauty as here walked and here went down.
Like birds that hear the winter crying plain
Her courtiers leave to seek the clement south;
Many have praised her, we alone remain
To break a fist against the lying mouth
Of any man who says this was not so:
Though she be dead now, as indeed we know.
II
Where can the heart be hidden in the ground
And be at peace, and be at peace forever,
Under the world, untroubled by the sound
Of mortal tears, that cease from pouring never?
Well for the heart, by stern compassion harried,
If death be deeper than the churchmen say, --
Gone from this world indeed what's graveward carried,
And laid to rest indeed what's laid away.
Anguish enough while yet the indignant breather
Have blood to spurt upon the oppressor's hand;
Who would eternal be, and hang in ether
A stuffless ghost above his struggling land,
Retching in vain to render up the groan
That is not there, being aching dust's alone?
Years ago, we came to the end of the line,
both went our separate ways,
but your memory keeps calling me back.
Calling to me from a distant shore,
back to your arms once more.
I try to resist and carry on,
but your memory keeps calling me back,
like some overplayed song.
I have a different life now,
the life we had is now over and gone.
Traces of our love they still remain,
but I cannot go back, I don’t feel the same.
Each day it gets harder fighting the urge,
for your memory keeps calling me back,
saying with you is where I belong.
8 August 2007
Your memory stays on
While you are long gone
A typical down to earth hero
As you look from up to down below
Stories of you will continue to grow and flow
Your memory stays on
They will remember you for your ups and downs
They will remember you for all the moments
You played a part and were around
Your memory stays on
You were a simple exceptional man
Making mistakes like any human
Your peak was when you took charge of football
Whilst your downfall was alcohol
The decider of your final call
Your memory stays on and will never run
Your achievement in football will always somehow return
We will miss you with each and every rising sun
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
I can almost see you from my window
the way you sauntered up to my door.
How you would always look at the mailbox
like you'd never been here before.
The visions of you surround me.
Your memory is still everywhere.
I wish you could talk with me now.
It's hard to accept you are there.
I see you smoking your cigarrettes
''No filters! ''... just as you like.
I go to the places you've travelled.
I see you where we loved to hike.
It's strange when I think of ''forever''
and know that you'll never return.
I wish things were not left unanswered.
I'm sure there is so much you've learned.
Your journey must have had a purpose.
You suffured like no one I've known.
I look forward to our reuniting.
Will it suprise you to see how I've grown?
Dedicated to my DAD
Do you wish to know what is your 'soul',
in all its glory, and its whole estate?
To know if it knows but a part, or All?
Its birth; its growth, its life - or lives; its fate?
Is it the watcher, even of itself?
Is it its own revealer, beyond words?
Can wise men tell us its true health and wealth?
If not, can we be sure that it exists?
For lack of witness to the soul's true bounds,
then, witness all the wonders of the world
of nature, beauty, law: then, what responds
in our self's mirror, is soul's map unfurled:
unbounded witness to its Maker; masked,
until for glorious proof of this it's asked!
Mirror, mirror on the wall,
Where are you hiding me?
That face is not the one I recall.
It’s not the me I seem to be.
Forget that school reunion picture.
I’m not the fella standing there.
Who could all those others be?
Where is Joe and Fred, with their hair?
Could that be Bill and Paul?
So many I never saw.
Could it be we were classmates once?
I feel like such a dunce.
Mirror, mirror on the wall.
Why can’t you hide the years?
A crack now in your face appears.
My memory is cracking too I fear.
June 15,2006
lightning
thunder
the storm
the calm
the chill
a hand mirror
my eyes
my nose
mouth
hair
face
a hand mirror
anguish
fear
pain
joy
happi ness
a hand mirror
spring
summer
autumn
winter
a hand mirror
childhood
teenager years
adulthood
old age
a hand mirror
poetry runs
outside
written by the gods
in multi-dimensions
a hand mirror
poetry runs inside
that all the outside
portrays so correctly
- i cry
a hand mirror
HOLD it up sternly! See this it sends back! (Who is it? Is it you?)
Outside fair costume--within ashes and filth,
No more a flashing eye--no more a sonorous voice or springy step;
Now some slave's eye, voice, hands, step,
A drunkard's breath, unwholesome eater's face, venerealee's flesh,
Lungs rotting away piecemeal, stomach sour and cankerous,
Joints rheumatic, bowels clogged with abomination,
Blood circulating dark and poisonous streams,
Words babble, hearing and touch callous,
No brain, no heart left--no magnetism of sex;                      10
Such, from one look in this looking-glass ere you go hence,
Such a result so soon--and from such a beginning!
He said he loved me! Then he called my hair
Silk threads wherewith sly Cupid strings his bow,
My cheek a rose leaf fallen on new snow;
And swore my round, full throat would bring despair
To Venus or to Psyche.
Time and care
Will fade these locks; the merry god, I know,
Uses no grizzled cords upon his bow.
How will it be when I, no longer fair,
Plead for his kiss with cheeks, whence long ago
The early snowflakes melted quite away,
The rose leaf died – and in whose sallow clay
Lie the deep sunken tracks of life’s gaunt crow?
When this full throat shall wattle fold on fold,
Like some ripe peach left drying on a wall,
Or like a spent accordion, when all
Its music has exhaled – will love grow cold?
They mouth love's language. Gnash
The thirteen teeth
Your lean jaws grin with. Lash
Your itch and quailing, nude greed of the flesh.
Love's breath in you is stale, worded or sung,
As sour as cat's breath,
Harsh of tongue.
This grey that stares
Lies not, stark skin and bone.
Leave greasy lips their kissing. None
Will choose her what you see to mouth upon.
Dire hunger holds his hour.
Pluck forth your heart, saltblood, a fruit of tears.
Pluck and devour!
I really Miss, My broken Mirror
It's like having a Black empty Space
I have bought a new one, much Clearer
I thought I would see a new Face
It's the old face just have to get Nearer
But the old one it will never Replace
My reflection stares back from the broken mirror
Distorted pieces staring from shards of broken mirror
Wondering where these false images come from
I’ve lost myself deeply inside this broken mirror
Disillusioned with myself, finally seeing the truth
That hides within shattered images of broken mirror
One thousand eyes blink, with lies behind each one
Cast at me from the remnants of the broken mirror
Crooked smiles endlessly reflecting back in sadness
Captured is the deep despair by this broken mirror
Scattered about the floor inside each silver shard
My self has been captured into this broken mirror
Indolence blocks effulgence
Ignorance swallows intelligence
Arrogance eats brilliance
Adamance fuels anarchism!
Jealousy blinds compassion
Envy engulfs erudition
Anger gulps ambition
Lust kills affection!
All may be a transcient phase
Just as  dust on the mirror's face
And moving clouds shadowing moon
Returning its eternal light sure very soon
With wit and will we can erase
And lend glory to life sans the evil trace!
The man is caught by anger
Burns all like fire,
Fire at last gets extinguished
But nothing is got
Or recovered,
So, anger is fire;
Putt off,
As soon as it starts burning things.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │31 January,2018
_girl in my mirror_
I look at myself in the mirror today
But i cant recognize my face
It wasnt me anymore
This is not what i used to be
I asked my reflection,
who are you?
what have you done to me?
where's the old me?
to my surprise,
the image of the girl talk back
i am you..
i am what you've become..
do you remember?
how much hurt you kept inside?
you look so lonely
your eyes so sad
your skin looks old and dull
because you now dont know
how to give a smile..
you're lying.. Can't you see?
I always have good friends beside me..
A family to care and support
to give me warm hugs and comfort..
what else would i want?
you're the one whose lying? !
are you listening to yourself?
she talk back at me..
'who do you call friends? !
the same people who gives you a cold heart
a broken soul, those who ignore your presence? !
are they real? where are they when u need them? !
you fall apart alone? ! yeah, you've tried all your best,
just to make them happy,
you've given everything
you even scarifice yourself even if it means
that you have to give up something..
who do you call your family?
those who treated you as if they own your life?
telling you what to do?
who laughs at you when you try to express yourself?
those who think you're weak and always sick?
a sister who keep on mocking you?
and brothers who never respect you?
now tell me.. who's lying?
is it me or you? !
now.. do you know who i am?
do you remember my name?
I'm your alter-ego
stop pretending..
dont pretend your happy when ur not
now is the time to make them listen
be not afraid anymore..
stand up and fight for yourself..
and you will see..
that i am you..
and that you are me..
we're one soul..
yours is broken..
mine isnt..
I'm looking in my mirror
Theres a girl in there tonight
Shes breaking apart so quickly
And nothing can make it alright
Her eyes are red and swollen
Mascara bleeding down her face
She'll never let them know
That shes feeling out of place
She asks
'Mirror mirror on the wall
Who is
The biggest fool of all'
Maybe its the girl
Crying her life away
Or maybe its the boy
Who's mind has been lead astray
Theres this girl in my mirror
With tears she can no longer hide
She can't pretend any longer
Because nothing is alright
Mirror Reflections
Only with your permission can
Tell a little white lie
Every time “I” see people…,
“I” feel great! “I” feel happy!
“I” feel happy to be with them!
“I” can see many people with many difference characters!
When they feel sad,
“I” will feel the same...
When they are laughing,
“I” will laugh too…
But now,
“I” only a pieces of an ugly mirror,
All “my” beauty has change!
“I” can see them anymore!
“I” am alone now!
Crying alone,
I am a broken mirror,
Which was broken when you look.
There is a hidden rose in my heart,
And never laugh at me as a kook.
I am a broken mirror,
Where was broken in the nook.
No one knows me and my love,
And never looked my rose or took.
I am a broken mirror,
Just as a myth in the old book.
You never read it even in dream,
Never read a line even is a hook.
I am a broken mirror,
But show you complete even every part.
It'll show clear spring to you,
Forever show to you my broken heart.
By   Abdul - rasheed Uyghurson
2007.3.20
(This is my frist english poem. I'll try hard later.)
I look at this girl before me
She's familiar, yet unknown
She's reaching out to touch me
She's abandoned and alone
She's living in a nightmare
Her eyes are tightly shut
She can't stand to see her pain
Caused by those she used to trust
She tries to speak, and cry for help
But her words will not come out
It's like nobody can hear her
No matter how loud she shouts
I'm the only one who understands
The torture she's been through
Her mind's been toyed and played with
And her heart has been abused
Now if her heart is broken
Can I put it back in place?
Can I wipe away the teardrops
That are falling down her face?
Can I erase the memories
That are deep inside her mind?
Can I take away the hurting
That she's suffered all her life?
And can I make her smile
When all she does is frown?
Can i pick her up and hold her
When she's lying on the ground
Can I hide her imperfections
If they're all she ever sees?
How do I tell her she's pretty
If she doesn't know what it means?
And if she wants to be alone
Am I supposed to follow?
How do I turn the light on
If she's hidden in the shadow?
And if she turns to walk away
Do I try to pull her nearer?
How do i help the person
That I see inside the mirror?
He continues to ponder
And his wife moves next to him.
She looks.They look at themselves
Looking through the fog.
She has a meeting she says in about
Thirty minutes, he has
Something too.But still she has
Just stepped out of the bath
And a single drop of water
Has curved along her breast
Down her abdomen and vialed in
Her navel then disappeared
In crimson.Unless they love
Then wake in love
Who can they ever be?Their faces bloom,
A rain mists down, the bare
Bulb softens above the glass,
So little light that
The hands mumble deliciously,
That the mouth opens
Mothlike, like petals finding
Themselves awake again
At four o'clock mid shade and sun.
IN THE DARK MIRROR
in the dark mirror
where no light can reach
I see her still face
radiant with a smile
her passion frozen
in the dark mirror
- Mirrors,2008 -
This dream of water-what does it harbor?
I see Argentina and Paraguay
under a curfew of glass, their colors
breaking, like oil. The night in Uruguay
is black salt. I'm driving toward Utah,
keeping the entire hemisphere in view-
Colombia vermilion, Brazil blue tar,
some countries wiped clean of color: Peru
is titanium white. And always oceans
that hide in mirrors: when beveled edges
arrest tides or this world's destinations
forsake ships. There's Sedona, Nogales
far behind. Once I went through a mirror-
from there too the world, so intact, resembled
only itself. When I returned I tore
the skin off the glass. The sea was unsealed
by dark, and I saw ships sink off the coast
of a wounded republic. Now from a blur
of tanks in Santiago, a white horse
gallops, riderless, chased by drunk soldiers
in a jeep; they're firing into the moon.
And as I keep driving in the desert,
someone is running to catch the last bus, men
hanging on to its sides. And he's missed it.
He is running again; crescents of steel
fall from the sky. And here the rocks
are under fog, the cedars a temple,
Sedona carved by the wind into gods-
each shadow their worshiper. The siren
empties Santiago; he watches
-from a hush of windows-blindfolded men
blurred in gleaming vans. The horse vanishes
into a dream. I'm passing skeletal
figures carved in 700 B.C.
Whoever deciphers these canyon walls
remains forsaken, alone with history,
no harbor for his dream. And what else will
this mirror now reason, filled with water?
I see Peru without rain, Brazil
without forests-and here in Utah a dagger
of sunlight: it's splitting-it's the summer
solstice-the quartz center of a spiral.
Did the Anasazi know the darker
answer also-given now in crystal
by the mirrored continent? The solstice,
but of winter? A beam stabs the window,
diamonds him, a funeral in his eyes.
In the lit stadium of Santiago,
this is the shortest day. He's taken there.
Those about to die are looking at him,
his eyes the ledger of the disappeared.
What will the mirror try now? I'm driving,
still north, always followed by that country,
its floors ice, its citizens so lovesick
that the ground-sheer glass-of every city
is torn up. They demand the republic
give back, jeweled, their every reflection.
They dig till dawn but find only corpses.
He has returned to this dream for his bones.
The waters darken. The continent vanishes.
As in sleeping-drink spices
softly she loosens in the liquid-clear
mirror her fatigued demeanor;
and she puts her smile deep inside.
And she waits while the liquid
rises from it; then she pours her hair
into the mirror, and, lifting one
wondrous shoulder from the evening gown,
she drinks quietly from her image. She drinks
what a lover would drink feeling dazed,
searching it, full of mistrust; and she only
beckons to her maid when at the bottom
of her mirror she finds candles, wardrobes,
and the cloudy dregs of a late hour.
Translated by Edward Snow
If you looked in the mirror
what would you see
a face full of anger and hypocrisy
would you study the eyes
with their bridge to the soul
and say there's a person
whose honesty shows
would the lines tell some story
of trouble you knew
and how you had struggled
to finally pull through
would the features combined
say there's someone who's kind
with benevolent heart
for the rest of mankind.
I look in the mirror
And what do I see
A reflection of someone else
Staring out at me
I see someone I used to know
Someone who used to be me
As I look in the mirror
That’s what I see
One drink led to another
A drunkard I became
Now my poor family
Are looked on with shame
Empty bottles fill every corner
Money I have none
My wife and children go hungry
As I crawl around the floor
As the days grew longer
The worse I became
Bottle followed bottle
Perfecting my shame
I yelled and I shouted
Strange things did I see
But none were more stranger
Than a reflection of me
It was the in's and out's
Of your inuendo's
Your heated breath
Near my ear
It was the moist silver
Tongue of your promise
That reflect's now
In my memories mirror
I see under myself,
In the acrylic mirror.
Expressionless portrait
Of sorrow and wonderment
Artistic beauty of self expression.
Picasso-ish,
Contemplations of self
Breathing out obsessions
Unspoken words being heard, and
Thoughts being felt.
Between the lines I see
A façade of Truth
Contrast and color,
Painting the knowledge within.
Withering traditions,
Confessions tell
Of being strangers to ourselves.
Who's that girl there I see?
She's looking back at me.
I see she's not happy but
Don't know why, who is she?
I see her here every day,
I think she's lost her way
But no one will venture to
Help because she won't say.
Nobody else sees the tears,
The lying smile hides her fears;
The confusion screaming in
Her head no one else hears.
I leave her then, go to bed,
Lie down and pray in my head,
There's nothing more I can do
Send some help' I said.
He was watching, he knew,
He always knows what to do.
I feel Him say through the night,
'Don't worry, I love you! '
I awake feeling his grace,
I see her in the same place,
But something is different,
A real smile's on her face.
A husky accented “Hi”
An act of concealment
Alack! ! very shoddy
Avers all the painfully mined
Poetry and philosophy;
as overtures
in genre of also-ran
T ’was a candor or stupor
That split the grandeur of whole
Into pores and pixels
“Hey you are fat and ugly
‘n logistically challenged
Hah! Nostrils filled with
Whiff of fresh lime of
Sense, symmetry and algorithm
Makes breathing a rather
Funny affair with flabs dancing
To tarry forth I’m offloading
the mirror in my mind
Dropping dreams in a basket
At some unknown door
m free m free m free
Hail to sanity
Long live fidelity
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
Can't you show me tall and slim?
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
Must I look so bloody grim?
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
You're distorting my poor waist!
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
And why the heck am I defaced?
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
Why have I a double chin?
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
And what's the stupid, goofy grin?
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
Pointless asking ‘Who’s the fairest? –
More bloody likely, 'Who’s the queerest? ’
Now look, I paid a big bucks for thee,
So why can’t you be nice to me?
Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
Who’s the fairest of them all?
Me, you say? Ah, that's better –
Mirror, mirror, bloody fibber!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
< br>
Mirror mirror bloody fibber
Mirror mirror mirror ribber
Mirror mirror mirror mirror
Mirror mirror make me slimmer
Mirror Mirror on the Wall
What stories you could tell,
Of faces that have gazed in you
Some so happy - others blue
Some thinking - gosh I look like Hell!
Mirror Mirror on the Wall
Mirror Mirror oh so Tall
Does my bum look big in this?
Does my skirt and jacket clash?
Is it OK for Julies bash?
Will this ensemble be a hit or miss?
Mirror Mirror oh so Tall
Mirror Mirror - curtain call
Do I look a real Pooh Bah?
Is my wig the right way round?
Does my crinoline reach the ground?
Is my moustache correct for a Huusar?
Mirror Mirror - curtain call.
Mirror Mirror in the Hall
Oh will I be 'Belle of the Ball'?
Will my beehive survive the twist and shout?
Or will my carefully padded top dropp ou?
Oh dear - will my stillettos make me fall?
Mirror mirror in the Hall.
Mirror Mirror Oh! apall
Sitting in the dentists chair.
'Just relax and let me take a look'
(scratching, scraping with a dentists hook)
What does the Dentist really see in there
Mirror Mirror Oh! apall
Morror Mirror - you'll recall
When I was very young and free
My face was smooth my eyes were bright
Even very late at night!
But now I'm really old and ninety-three
Mirror Mirror - you'll recall.
Mirror Mirror - please don't  fall
Broken glass - bad luck for seven years!
Reflect my vissage just once more
Then you can shatter on the floor
With all my fractured hopes and flowing tears.
Mirror Mirror - please don't fall.
(John Knight - September 2009)
< br>(john Knight - September 2009)
This type of poem is called a 'Sandwich' because the first and last lines, of each verse, are the same. Also the last line of each verse is similar to the opening line of the next verse and rhymes with it. The technical rhyme pattern, in the above poem, Is  A b c c b A.
Mirror Mirror on the wall
fastest artist of them all.
You can only paint anew
if leaving behind the
last portrait you drew.
Mirror mirror on the wall
Who is the ugliest of them all.
And the mirror replied:
'One who thinks ugliness
exists at all'
Mirrors,
Awful things,
Yet beautiful at the same time,
They show you what you wish to see,
Yet not always what you may like,
They show the truth,
The harrowing truth,
That leads to many deaths,
And to many futures,
Some great,
Some dire,
Some over before they even begin.
Mirror Mirror
On the wall
I’m telling you  my secrets
Once and for all
I really want you to see
The other side of me
Not my appearance
Somewhere behind the looks
I want you to know
That you know how I feel
You show me my expression
Everything is true
You never lie
Like most people do
Mirror Mirror
On the wall
I have no secrets
Because you know them all
The mirror is disgusted
Gross misinterpretation
Of the image it threw up
Down with images,
The poor mirror screamed
The scream shattered
The mirror into shards
The images
Multiplied...!
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Why can't I be the smartest of all
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Why can't I found true love at all
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Why can't I stop cutting myself
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Why do I feel lonley all the time
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Why do i feel stupid every day
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Why do you make me feel sad all the time.
Mirror, Mirror on the wall,
I look into every day, but now I see someone I don't know at all!
When I was young,
I remebered,
I would look for hours.
Now, as I grow older,
My face appears as ugly and dry as wilted flowers.
My wrinkles grow longer
And I spend much less
Time in front of you,
When I do,
I'm so blue.
You see, you can really tell I'm not as much of a Man as I once was,
It is hard to say,
But a plain fact,
As our body's fall apart,
We fight back.
We fight back with dyes, creams and powders,
Even some try selective operations to retard age,
Oh how wise is such a sage.
If the desired result it stop the process,
Who among us willing to start.
What is would take is implied consent,
You must give in and lament.
You no longer must linger,
Where you once did,
And if you do,
You can make a bet
That this too will be a great lament.
Mirror mirror on the wall.
Who's the vainest of them all?
And then there was no long pregnant pause.
For the mirror instantly replied...
Mankind!
Mirror mirror on the wall
Who is the fairest of us all
If you did happen to answer
there would be no doubt
My reflection would be over
& I would simply pass out
But now we have had
this little conversation
I have something to confess
I really like the new reflection
It's filled with happiness
An enormous smile has chased
that serious face away
It has taken off years
And those laughter lines
look really good today
(a tribute to Chris)
Mirror, Mirror on the wall,
Will I ever be as tall
As my mom and dad today-
Or will I always be this way?
When I wish so much to grow
And know the things that adults know,
Mirror, Mirror on the wall,
Must I always be this small?
Little girl or little boy-
Quaint questions these to ask a toy-
No mater how you hope or pray
You can not stop a single day.
As water drops fill up a cup,
The days pass by and you're grown-up.
Little girl or little boy,
You'll soon out grow this simple toy.
Mirror, Mirror on the wall,
Why do adults have the gall
To pat my head and say to me:
What do you think that you will be?
There are so many things to do;
Why must I choose just one or two?
Mirror, Mirror on the wall,
Why can I not choose them all?
Little boy or little girl,
Yes, this is a busy world.
There are many things to do,
And all of them are awaiting you.
You must learn a bit of each
Then pick the best ones in your reach.
Little boy or little girl,
You can build a better world.
Mirror, Mirror in my hand,
You are so hard to understand;
You sometimes laugh and sometimes frown,
And if I want I'll turn you ‘round.
Upside-down and sideways too,
I do as I please with you.
Mirror, Mirror in my hand,
Top that one if you can.
They say that mirrors are gateways to a parallel universe
and I think this may be true
because although we look alike, I am nothing like you.
I wish you could be the mother that you used to be
instead of being with that man, you're dirt beneath his feet
The saddest part is what could have been
You could have been my closest friend
You could have been the greatest mom
all if you had just stayed strong.
You used to be so beautiful
Now youre skin and bone
Your voice is thick with toxins, I can hear it on the phone.
You'd be so proud if you actually cared
if you made the right choices and were actually there
I won; t blame myself anymore
And I'm done staring at the door
Just waiting for you to come back changed
to have your priorities rearranged.
In a world where you put your children first
is a world where my brother and I wouldn't have to hurt
And I worry every single day
that I'll lose my grip and become that way
But then I know its just a thought
I would never give up after how long I've fought
I don't want to end up like you
and I wont. I refuse.
Do you even know how much I've cried?
Over the hate and of the lies?
My mirror, mirror sets me free.
I'll never be like you
but forever will be me.
Mirror Mirror
tell me what do you see
who am I?
I sometimes wonder who is she
Mirror Mirror
Do you love me?
As I look into you I see a reflection of me
I see a little girl who was and can never be
Grown into a woman
There's this older woman sits alone
starring back at me
Mirror Mirror
Hold up!
What is this I see
I turned back trying to figure out why is she me
I study her for awhile
wondering is this suppose to be
Mirror Mirror
your eyes the window of your soul I see
It holds a story that is untold
Mirror Mirror
That image I see
is it my shadow looking back at me?
Oops!
its she who is me?
Rainfall, lightning, thunder, sun
Condense gems which ocean shun
Greetings geese, planes goodbye
Friends I loved, friends they fly.
Waves connected, big and small
Sheet of glass where sapphires fall
Sapphires blue, then red, then black
Beams of white, the mirror cracks.
Silver lining in between
Something only few have seen
Horizon marks the bounds of map
The bounds of dream of which I nap.
Mirror, mirror, of the sky
Sea of which you go by
I row my boat forevermore
To find the non-existing shore.
Mirror, mirror on the wall...
Who will be ready to catch her when she falls...
Mirror mirror you see im not big nor tall...
But tell me please, tell me I can be her all...
Mirror, mirror I resemble pitiness you say...
But I've learned to accept and thank anyway...
Mirror, mirror cant you see...
I don't think I can be what she wants me to be...
Mirror, mirror with your reflection so dim...
Why must I fault, why must I sin?
Mirror, mirror with you being so precise...
Can you spare me some knowledge, lend me some wise?
Mirror, mirror I love your recognition...
But please let this noose end me with submission...
If I were a galaxy in outer space
and wanted to find my reflection,
a mirror I'd seek so to peek at my face
while engaging in introspection.
Suppose I was millions of light-years away
in a constellation called Maiden
or Virgo, to use its correct sobriquet,
with a twin doppelgänger laden.
Might I query, ‘Oh mirror high in the sky,
midst linked arms and blueish trail flowing,
do you think my double is fairer than I?
What image is that you are showing?
‘Is it beauty you see gazing back at me,
mythopoeic in pondering mood? '—
Notwithstanding what seems to be harmony,
something's wrong with that calm attitude.
The peaceable aspect is masking a stage
of an astronomic collision
that began in an erstwhile earlier age
and will cause extensive revision.
In infrared, NGC five three three one
is a hundred billion times brighter,
it's said, than the luminousness of the Sun,
(hard to grasp for a starlit writer) .
A mirror speaks not, unless it is magic,
plus envisioning likenesses flipped.
What will that merger be, placid or tragic
in the redrafted galactic script?
The picture of two spirals interacting,
during a junction's coming to pass,
reveals the duo each other impacting,
thus to resemble a looking glass.
In the sequel by Carroll to Wonderland,
Alice climbs through to the other side
of the mirror, where she meets with peril and
Tweedledum and Tweedledee abide.
Yet our surroundings behave as reflector
much like the Moon with the tidal ebb.
Hence is futurity glimpsed as a specter
hither and thither weaving its web…
Humans cast shadows in all causal matters
touching on Nature's balance on Earth
fragilely wrought as a mirror that shatters.
Oh may we waken to life's true worth!
Your beauty, somewhat tarnished now,
still outlines the joyous lass you were
those summers ago, when men stopped
in their tracks just to look at you.
Oh, how cruel time can be.
Now the only recognition you receive is;
'Mum, where's my football socks? '
'Mum, isn't dinner ready yet? '
Now you're mum.
When once you were darling.
Your sun set when he didn't take you
that way - any more.
So you lie beside him, remembering
how your passion rose with his.
And you eyes ask, 'What happened? '
Mirror, mirror
Looking back at me
Is a face of pure wonder
Her eyes are a dark brown
And full of youth and naivety
Curiosity and independence
Her curls falling down to her shoulders
Mystery in every strand
Mirror, mirror
Reflecting somebody
That I can't even recognize
She pretends and she lies
She runs and she hides
She knows she's greater than that
But she doesn't do anything to change it
Mirror, mirror
Show me who I am
Show the inner self
That's beautiful and blooming
The girl that's not afraid to be herself
Show me my purpose
Show me my life, my mistakes and my regrets
So I can fix them throughout my life
Mirror, mirror
Amaze me with truth
Who are my real friends,
Sticking by my side
Who are my foes,
betraying me with their lies
Amaze me with my future
To keep away any surprise.
Mirror, mirror
One last time,
Tell me why
I seem to feel
So empty inside
Why I'm filled with these questions
And Why I have no answers
Mirror, mirror
On the walls of my heart
nature gives
to me a piece of
merrier self
and from there
it claims a piece
of merrier self
Vanity upon the wall,
A cheap bauble, the looking glass.
All who come near it, hear it's call,
An ancient woman, or a sweet young lass.
The ways of man are vain indeed,
Narcissistic we all must be.
And our hubris we must all feed,
Ourselves in the mirror we have to see.
7/16/10 Alton Texas
When I look into the mirror I'm afraid of what I see
I'm afraid of the person staring back at me
I'm frightened that the person will take over who I am inside
So instead of facing my biggest fears I run and I hide
But I stop and ask myself 'how can this be'?
The mirror can only reflect the person looking - which is me
I found out what I'm afraid of and it's not the mirror
Its really actually me that I fear
Mirror, mirror
On the wall.
How old will I be
When I fall?
Mirror, mirror,
In the locker.
Will I be famous in baseball,
or should I try soccer?
Mirror, mirror,
On the door.
Where will I be,
When I'm twenty-four?
Mirror, mirror,
In my purse.
When will this be over?
I hate the search.
Mirror, mirror,
Up above.
I'm getting married,
I found my true love.
Mirror, mirror,
In my hand.
I'm in Hawaii,
With my toes in the sand.
Mirror, mirror,
In the water,
I'm sitting here crying,
With my daughter.
Mirror, mirror,
You have been sold,
Mirror, mirror,
I'm getting so old.
Mirror, mirror,
Broken on the floor.
Here I am now,
Ninety-four.
Mirror, mirror,
On the TV,
I am dying,
Now I shall leave.
Mirror, mirror,
You were my mother's.
Mirror, mirror,
No you're her daughter's.
Mirror, mirror,
You've been through a lifetime.
Mirror, mirror,
You have been so kind.
Mirror, mirror,
You shall sleep,
Mirror, mirror,
You are done...so sleep.
Mirror, mirror on the wall
Compliment ME... most of all!
Tell me I’m pretty…tell me I’m great
Don’t hold back your compliments
Don’t hesitate.
Some call me… too vane
Some call me… stuck up.
Some envy me…I know
Wising they had such... good look luck.
Mirror, Mirror what was that you’ve said?
You say that I’m ugly inside...and that my insides are dead?
How can that be mirror...am I not the prettiest of all?
Mirror, oh mirror… upon my wall.
Tell me do…tell me what I wish so to hear.
Tell me those other comments…are wrong to my ears.
“Pretty is as Pretty does” but these things you clearly lack
For ones beauty lie deep... within ones heart to view
And yours my dear maiden… have none of that.
By: Linda Winchell
Copyright: 2009
Don’t display my eyes,
Don’t display my hair,
Don’t display my teeth.
Mirror Mirror
Display my courage
Display my knowledge
Display my voyage
Display my message
Display my passage
To go in the right direction as you show.
Mirror Mirror
Don’t you dare display my dress,
Don’t display my shoes.
Mirror Mirror
Display my strength
Display my weakness
Display my soul
To succeed in the path you show.
Mirror Mirror
You are my best friend,
You are not like them
You show me my true form.
When you look in the mirror
What do you see.
A reflection of yourself
or the opposite of thee.
Someone who finds fault
in the decisions that you make.
Who thinks that you're the imposter,
that you're the fake.
.
How do they deal with
the problems that you face.
Do they do it with
better logic and grace.
Or do they just ignore them and make light of it.
Bury their  head in the
sand and end up in the shit.
It leads me to think of Frosts 'The Road not taken'
When the morning comes and I awaken.
But who knows what way the future roads lay.
I am who I am, come what may.
Once again she stands motionless
Her eyes searching for something...
Something of beauty she can hold;
Everyday searching, too many times told it's not there.
So she, lost in that eternal stare
Peruses the fine lines, the brows, the cheeks.
But what she seeks is not found in a reflection.
She needs a stare deeper within
Where the ugliness lies snug
In a lack of hugs and affirming words;
A bonafide love for the awkwardness,
The less than perfect nose and the cheekbones not so high,
The words that don't come out quite right.
For the mirror is a terror to a dissatisfied, unsettled heart
That cannot see beauty beyond the physical glare.
She must learn one day to search much deeper there
Where she'll see contentment smiling,
Finally understanding this is the purest
Prettiest reflection ever known and ever shown.
SILENCE,  THHE MIRROR POSSESSES THE POWERS OF ATTENTION
AS MUCH POWER AS THE GOLDEN HARVEST ALONG THE ROAD-SIDE UNHIDDEN
THE MIRROR SPEAKS A LANGUAGE THAT TELLS NO LIES
INFACT, THE MIRROR ENTRAPS ILLUSION AND RECAPS THE EYES
.....  LEAVING NO MYSTERIES OF WHATS BEHIND
INTUNED,  THE MIRROR FEEDS OFF THE SKY- ITS FAVORITE FEAST IS THE SUN
.....  MUNCHING, CRUNCHING, SWALLOWED, HOWEVER CONSUMED
THE MIRROR IS MORE TANTALIZING THAN ANY MOON
THE MIRROR PULLS AND REFLECTS LIKE A STORY THAT EACH AND ALL CAN RELATE
PEOPLE FRIENDLY, VERY KIND AND NEVER FAKE
THE MIRROR TELLS THE GOOD AND THE BAD, SO BE PREPARED FOR TRUTH
THATS WHY I TRUST AND LOVE MY MIRROR..... BECAUSE IT SAYS I BELONG W/ YOU
MIRROR MIRROR- koom ba ye....aka the greatest crush ever
A young spring-tender girl
combed her joyous hair
'You are very ugly' said the mirror.
But,
on her lips hung
a smile of dove-secret loveliness,
for only that morning had not
the blind boy said,
'You are beautiful'?
Mirror mirror
You tell lies
Who put crows feet
Round my eyes?
Mirror mirror
Hanging there
Who put that grey
In my hair?
Mirror mirror
Is that me
Is that really
Me I see?
Mirror Mirror
Stop your fun
That's not me
That is my mum
Mirror mirror
Don't stare back
For it's bad luck
If you should crack
Mirror mirror
On days like these
When what I see
Doesn't please
Mirror mirror
My mood this day
Will ask you turn
The other way!
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Will i take that fall
Should i try or would it b better 2 say good-bye
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
I don't think i like who i c at all
I c a tear streaked face, and someone who wants so many
things 2 take place
Mirror, Mirror what is fair
Y do i even care
I should just walk away and save the pain 4 another day
Mirror, Mirror set me free
Let me become the person i long 2 b
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
I want 2 become strong and stand tall
Help me if u can, try and lend me a hand
Mirror, Mirror on the wall
Mirror Mirror on the wall
Will today be fine or squall?
'How should I know, go and see
The weather-man on B.B.C.'
(Written Sept 2012)
Mirror Mirror on the wall
Do you even care at all?
Every question you reject
Even if we genuflect.
(Written Sept 2012)
Mirror Mirror on the wall
Why were you put there at all?
I don't like my face today
So, please look the other way.
(Written Sept 2012)
Who is more beautiful
we or our mind?
Should we tell the truth openly
or bite one from behind?
Mirror, mirror tell me
soon, don't keep suspense- - - -
can morality be sold,
in pound, dollar or in  pence?
If anyone hurts without
any cause, should I keep patience?
Mirror, mirror, tell him now,
his digs  make no  sense.
‘ All this I will give you, ’  he said, ‘ If you will bow down and worship me.’ (Mt.4: 10)
Mirror, my mirror!
My  self- made  image God!
It is  you I adore!
Selfishness has built an inner altar in my heart.
To you my ego, I deserve the best of me!
I promise not to question who I am,
As long  as  I walk in the red carpet,
A little money to my character is a big deal.
I was told  souls have no price,
So, it is just my  body, just bone and flesh.
Wholesale! Big savings!
My body, my sanctuary!
My image  at sale!
Nothing to do with me.
Don´t you see?  I am   a celebrity, brother!
Behold! How   fit I am  … and skilful!
I devote to you   everything I am.
Untill no more of me will be seen  - a rebirth -! The ‘  superme ‘!
Stardom is the paradise where  my soul will  rest.
My heaven  right  below my feet:
A star on the walk of fame,
A fallen  bright star!
Come see me! Watch me! I am  At your disposal!
My image … my body, my eyes, my hair, my beauty:
A corpse.
Somehow at
Increasingly dimmed dusk
We are still in the morning
Jumping around asking for milk
Whining severely, wanting food.
We often point
To the bottom, top and sides
Even to the skies. Consequently,
Our own mirror covered
By the thick, black cloth.
Could we, even once
Calculate and weigh
With sincere and truthful
All failures occur,
- On our own choices.
into my  eyes
he  lustily    savours
his  kisses
ignorant  of his
own  picture
That  mirrors  there.
Like any other changeling
She was waiting to transform
Waiting for her arms to curl into flaps
Waiting for another set of legs to emerge
Standing before the mirror of transformation
With the decal in the upper corner of the glass
Of  a white winged unicorn
Suddenly the thought of morphing
Frightened her a bit
As she thought of the impossibility
Of being in the ballet
Or riding on an airplane to visit her aunt
She crossed her fingers
Canceling her wish to be a unicorn
She spun three times before the magic mirror
And closed her eyes
Hoping that when she opened them
She would just be herself
And wondering as she did this
Exactly who or what she was
As I look into the mirror
I see nothing
I see a hypocrite
I see pain
I see no emotion
I see betrayal
I see a failure
I see what everyone else sees
I see me
The girl out of the mirror
Looks sad and pale
that’s how shell die
Alone and frail
The girl in the mirror
smiling is she
She looks happy and joyful
Why shouldn’t she be
The girl out of the mirror
Unhappy in life
Is upset with herself
Keeps watching her knife
The girl in the mirror is
Smiling
Joking
Buying
The girl out of the mirror is
Sighing
Weeping
Dying
I loved you once, you took me in
With chubby cheeks you made me grin
I love you for you give me back
Without hiding in your sack
Once I found you in  my teens
Made me pretty, all my means
Found you grow me all seasons
Nature filling moons and suns
For some time you missed me there
Then I found me missing here
Dancing I was with my dear
Lust and love, hai! keep me cheer
You made me reflect without mask
All these questions may I ask
Without answer you showed me
Wife and mother I can be
With grey hair I thought wisdom come
Grey hair did not make wise some
Wisdom gained, I found me failed
Oh! Mirror, can you make me resolved
I thought you keep me all absorbed
Without letting time involved
But, I found in you me sold
Once decked with a speck of gold
Would you trade places?
To live my life
To be me
To feel my pain
Would you ignore a friend?
Move on in life
Pretend not to know
Would you not enjoy music?
Knowing that you love it
But, not wanting to listen
Would you talk to me?
Knowing that I'm a loser
Knowing that I'm ugly
Knowing that I'm a nice guy
Would you take your own life?
Would you finally do it?
Would you start over?
Not knowing how
Stop staring at me
I'll go away from the mirror now.
When I look in the mirror, what do I see?
A beautiful human being staring right back at me
When I  move grade to grade, what has been shown?
my smartness and how much my progress has grown
When I read a book, cover to cover
I always go back to get another
Some may ask, how do I dress
I may answer, I dress to impress
When I go out I present myself with pride
you can tell by the way I walk, stride for stride
When you look in the mirror, what do you see?
I see a beautiful human being staring right back at me
Mirror say Mirror see
Tell me what you see in me?
For what I see is a girl
She moves identical to me
But the girl in the mirror is nothing like me
She has no glow,
The glow that every girl needs
I see no beauty,
A plain Jane
Mirror say Mirror See
Tell me what you see in me?
What I See is not me
She has no hope in those little eyes
For she has seen too much
I see a girl who is not me
She does not smile
For her lips has spoken lies
Mirror say Mirror see
Tell me what you see in me?
Who is this girl in front of me?
For what I see is couldn’t be
Her skin is not perfect
For she has to many scars
She has been through too much
The girl in front of me is not the beauty I need
No, she is no Barbie
But a Rag Doll drug through life
Mirror say Mirror see
Is that really me?
I am no beauty
For I was never a gift
But a girl with a dream
Mirror say Mirror see
Will that ever be me?
Mirror upon mirror
mirror after mirror
mirror turning giddying
after mirror turning
giddying
and a solitary human
in the midst of the
mirror circle
aghast confused and wan
directionless in all
directions
Crawl into space,
My Love, My Me.
You are my yearning,
Desire burning
I'll get the covers
Protect you from pain...
(Yet, I am the judge judged insane.
I am the pillar of Earthly desire
I am the mystery, the lick of the fire,
Together we judge them insane!)
Im lost,
Ive been this way, ten years to the day,
i still cannot find what I am looking for
until,
I found my mirror,
at first i overlooked its powers,
but i suddenly saw the beauty
I saw hope, something save my from my terror
i grow excited,
i dance around, hoping that i do not break it
hope that do not destroy this beauty
or seven years of bad luck will befall me,
but if i do not dance with it,
i also fear that it will no longer want me
it may betray and leave me lost once again,
Lost.....
Mercurial sheet detects photonic intersects -
no vector new neglects - neuronic intellects recording with hindsight.
Photon's path projects quantum leap, subjects
impressions multiplex - concave or convex -  trek's retrospective flight.
Mirror's muse reflects as mirror recollects
mirror switch reflects upon mirror which reflects on mystery of light.
Mirror thus protects mirror that projects
reflection that reflects on mirror which expects historical insight.
Mirror interjects texts, textures and contexts
chance elects, selects, checks and double checks for infinite delight.
Mirror's light directs life's mysteries, neglects
naught it interconnects as cause links to effects exciting to invite.
Mirror intercepts when mirror role reflects
mirror twitch, deflects mirror which rejects history of night
Mirror pitch connects, collects and self respects,
perpetually perfects externals it bedecks with inner meanings' might.
Because the dawn empties its pockets of our nightmares.
Because the wings of birds are dusty with fear.
Because another war has eaten its way
into the granary of stars. What can console us?
Is there so little left to love? Is belief just the poacher's
searchlight that always blinds us, and memory just
the tracer rounds of desire? Last night,
under the broken rudder of the moon, soldiers
cut a girl's finger off for the ring, then shot her and the boy
who tried to hide under a cloak of woods beyond their Kosovo
town. Listen to me, - we have become words
without meanings, rituals learned from dried
river beds and the cellars of fire-bombed houses.
Excuses flutter their wings. Another mortar round is
arriving from the hills. How long would you say
it takes despair to file down a heart?
When, this morning, you woke beside me, you were mumbling
how yesterday our words seemed to brush over the marsh
grass the way those herons planed over
a morning of ground birds panicking in their nests.
When my father left me his GI compass, telling me
it was to keep me from losing myself, I never thought
where it had led him, or would lead me. Today,
beside you, I remembered simply the way you eat
a persimmon, and thought it would be impossible for each
dropp of rain not to want to touch you. Maybe the names
of these simple objects, returning this morning
like falcons, will console us. Maybe we can love
not just within the darkness, but because of it. Ours is
the dream of the snail hoping to leave its track on the moon.
we are sending signals to worlds more distant
than what the radio astronomers can listen for, and yet-
And yet, what? Maybe your seeds of daylight will take root.
Maybe it is for you the sea lifts its shoulders to the moon,
for you the smoke of some battle takes the shape of a tree.
On your balconies of desire, in your alleyways of touch,
each object is a door opening like the luminous face of
a pocket watch. Maybe because of you the stars, too,
desire one another across their infinite,
impossible distances forever, so that it is not
unthinkable that some bird skims the narrow sky where
the sentry fires have dampened, where the soldier, stacking
guns in Death's courtyard, might look up, and remember
touching some story he carries in his pockets, a morning
like this blazing through the keyholes of history, seeing not
his enemy but those lovers, reaching for each other, reaching
towards any of us, their words splintering on the sky,
the gloves of their hearts looking for anyone's hands.
When you look in the mirror
Do you see only yourself?
Could the reflection be your soul,
Staring yoack in the face?
If there is a crack in the mirror,
Is that not a reflection of you?
The mirror reveals merely what your eyes
Want us to see
But could not a clearer reflection
Mirror infinity?
.
mean
scowly face
nasty hectoring voice
.
.
voice hectoring nastiness
face scowling
meanness
.
.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~©2018 Susan Williams
With inside out, and out, surprised, inside!
When penning verse whose end may, too, begin it,
When rhyming reel with real can coincide
Yours is the world and everything that’s in it
If you can write without cash motivation,
Self-righteousness avoiding like the plague,
Create consensus round an innovation
Embraced by all without appearing vague.
If you can scan, span logic to emotion
Set constant course from vested interests clear,
If you can ban all untoward commotion,
While conscience clings to all that it holds dear,
If rhymes may improvise, spurn prose redrafted,
Communication keyed to catalyze,
You'll find to your surprise that you have rafted
On stream it seems when wit reverse dream tries
----
On stream it seems when wit reverse dream tries
You'll find to your surprise that you have rafted
Communication keyed to catalyze,
If rhyme may improvise, spurn prose redrafted
While conscience clings to all that it holds dear.
If you can ban all untoward commotion,
Set constant course from vested interests clear.
If you can scan span logic to emotion
Embraced by all without appearing vague,
Create consensus round an innovation,
Self-righteousness avoiding like the plague,
If you can write without cash motivation,
Your's is the world and everything that’s in it
When rhyming reel with real can coincide
When penning verse whose end may, too, begin it,
With inside out, and out, surprised, inside!
As Parmigianino did it, the right hand
Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer
And swerving easily away, as though to protect
What it advertises. A few leaded panes, old beams,
Fur, pleated muslin, a coral ring run together
In a movement supporting the face, which swims
Toward and away like the hand
Except that it is in repose. It is what is
Sequestered. Vasari says, "Francesco one day set himself
To take his own portrait, looking at himself from that purpose
In a convex mirror, such as is used by barbers . . .
He accordingly caused a ball of wood to be made
By a turner, and having divided it in half and
Brought it to the size of the mirror, he set himself
With great art to copy all that he saw in the glass,"
Chiefly his reflection, of which the portrait
Is the reflection, of which the portrait
Is the reflection once removed.
The glass chose to reflect only what he saw
Which was enough for his purpose: his image
Glazed, embalmed, projected at a 180-degree angle.
The time of day or the density of the light
Adhering to the face keeps it
Lively and intact in a recurring wave
Of arrival. The soul establishes itself.
But how far can it swim out through the eyes
And still return safely to its nest? The surface
Of the mirror being convex, the distance increases
Significantly; that is, enough to make the point
That the soul is a captive, treated humanely, kept
In suspension, unable to advance much farther
Than your look as it intercepts the picture.
Pope Clement and his court were "stupefied"
By it, according to Vasari, and promised a commission
That never materialized. The soul has to stay where it is,
Even though restless, hearing raindrops at the pane,
The sighing of autumn leaves thrashed by the wind,
Longing to be free, outside, but it must stay
Posing in this place. It must move
As little as possible. This is what the portrait says.
But there is in that gaze a combination
Of tenderness, amusement and regret, so powerful
In its restraint that one cannot look for long.
The secret is too plain. The pity of it smarts,
Makes hot tears spurt: that the soul is not a soul,
Has no secret, is small, and it fits
Its hollow perfectly: its room, our moment of attention.
That is the tune but there are no words.
The words are only speculation
(From the Latin speculum, mirror):
They seek and cannot find the meaning of the music.
We see only postures of the dream,
Riders of the motion that swings the face
Into view under evening skies, with no
False disarray as proof of authenticity.
But it is life englobed.
One would like to stick one's hand
Out of the globe, but its dimension,
What carries it, will not allow it.
No doubt it is this, not the reflex
To hide something, which makes the hand loom large
As it retreats slightly. There is no way
To build it flat like a section of wall:
It must join the segment of a circle,
Roving back to the body of which it seems
So unlikely a part, to fence in and shore up the face
On which the effort of this condition reads
Like a pinpoint of a smile, a spark
Or star one is not sure of having seen
As darkness resumes. A perverse light whose
Imperative of subtlety dooms in advance its
Conceit to light up: unimportant but meant.
Francesco, your hand is big enough
To wreck the sphere, and too big,
One would think, to weave delicate meshes
That only argue its further detention.
(Big, but not coarse, merely on another scale,
Like a dozing whale on the sea bottom
In relation to the tiny, self-important ship
On the surface.) But your eyes proclaim
That everything is surface. The surface is what's there
And nothing can exist except what's there.
There are no recesses in the room, only alcoves,
And the window doesn't matter much, or that
Sliver of window or mirror on the right, even
As a gauge of the weather, which in French is
Le temps, the word for time, and which
Follows a course wherein changes are merely
Features of the whole. The whole is stable within
Instability, a globe like ours, resting
On a pedestal of vacuum, a ping-pong ball
Secure on its jet of water.
And just as there are no words for the surface, that is,
No words to say what it really is, that it is not
Superficial but a visible core, then there is
No way out of the problem of pathos vs. experience.
You will stay on, restive, serene in
Your gesture which is neither embrace nor warning
But which holds something of both in pure
Affirmation that doesn't affirm anything.
The balloon pops, the attention
Turns dully away. Clouds
In the puddle stir up into sawtoothed fragments.
I think of the friends
Who came to see me, of what yesterday
Was like. A peculiar slant
Of memory that intrudes on the dreaming model
In the silence of the studio as he considers
Lifting the pencil to the self-portrait.
How many people came and stayed a certain time,
Uttered light or dark speech that became part of you
Like light behind windblown fog and sand,
Filtered and influenced by it, until no part
Remains that is surely you. Those voices in the dusk
Have told you all and still the tale goes on
In the form of memories deposited in irregular
Clumps of crystals. Whose curved hand controls,
Francesco, the turning seasons and the thoughts
That peel off and fly away at breathless speeds
Like the last stubborn leaves ripped
From wet branches? I see in this only the chaos
Of your round mirror which organizes everything
Around the polestar of your eyes which are empty,
Know nothing, dream but reveal nothing.
I feel the carousel starting slowly
And going faster and faster: desk, papers, books,
Photographs of friends, the window and the trees
Merging in one neutral band that surrounds
Me on all sides, everywhere I look.
And I cannot explain the action of leveling,
Why it should all boil down to one
Uniform substance, a magma of interiors.
My guide in these matters is your self,
Firm, oblique, accepting everything with the same
Wraith of a smile, and as time speeds up so that it is soon
Much later, I can know only the straight way out,
The distance between us. Long ago
The strewn evidence meant something,
The small accidents and pleasures
Of the day as it moved gracelessly on,
A housewife doing chores. Impossible now
To restore those properties in the silver blur that is
The record of what you accomplished by sitting down
"With great art to copy all that you saw in the glass"
So as to perfect and rule out the extraneous
Forever. In the circle of your intentions certain spars
Remain that perpetuate the enchantment of self with self:
Eyebeams, muslin, coral. It doesn't matter
Because these are things as they are today
Before one's shadow ever grew
Out of the field into thoughts of tomorrow.
Tomorrow is easy, but today is uncharted,
Desolate, reluctant as any landscape
To yield what are laws of perspective
After all only to the painter's deep
Mistrust, a weak instrument though
Necessary. Of course some things
Are possible, it knows, but it doesn't know
Which ones. Some day we will try
To do as many things as are possible
And perhaps we shall succeed at a handful
Of them, but this will not have anything
To do with what is promised today, our
Landscape sweeping out from us to disappear
On the horizon. Today enough of a cover burnishes
To keep the supposition of promises together
In one piece of surface, letting one ramble
Back home from them so that these
Even stronger possibilities can remain
Whole without being tested. Actually
The skin of the bubble-chamber's as tough as
Reptile eggs; everything gets "programmed" there
In due course: more keeps getting included
Without adding to the sum, and just as one
Gets accustomed to a noise that
Kept one awake but now no longer does,
So the room contains this flow like an hourglass
Without varying in climate or quality
(Except perhaps to brighten bleakly and almost
Invisibly, in a focus sharpening toward death--more
Of this later). What should be the vacuum of a dream
Becomes continually replete as the source of dreams
Is being tapped so that this one dream
May wax, flourish like a cabbage rose,
Defying sumptuary laws, leaving us
To awake and try to begin living in what
Has now become a slum. Sydney Freedberg in his
Parmigianino says of it: "Realism in this portrait
No longer produces and objective truth, but a bizarria . . . .
However its distortion does not create
A feeling of disharmony . . . . The forms retain
A strong measure of ideal beauty," because
Fed by our dreams, so inconsequential until one day
We notice the hole they left. Now their importance
If not their meaning is plain. They were to nourish
A dream which includes them all, as they are
Finally reversed in the accumulating mirror.
They seemed strange because we couldn't actually see them.
And we realize this only at a point where they lapse
Like a wave breaking on a rock, giving up
Its shape in a gesture which expresses that shape.
The forms retain a strong measure of ideal beauty
As they forage in secret on our idea of distortion.
Why be unhappy with this arrangement, since
Dreams prolong us as they are absorbed?
Something like living occurs, a movement
Out of the dream into its codification.
As I start to forget it
It presents its stereotype again
But it is an unfamiliar stereotype, the face
Riding at anchor, issued from hazards, soon
To accost others, "rather angel than man" (Vasari).
Perhaps an angel looks like everything
We have forgotten, I mean forgotten
Things that don't seem familiar when
We meet them again, lost beyond telling,
Which were ours once. This would be the point
Of invading the privacy of this man who
"Dabbled in alchemy, but whose wish
Here was not to examine the subtleties of art
In a detached, scientific spirit: he wished through them
To impart the sense of novelty and amazement to the spectator"
(Freedberg). Later portraits such as the Uffizi
"Gentleman," the Borghese "Young Prelate" and
The Naples "Antea" issue from Mannerist
Tensions, but here, as Freedberg points out,
The surprise, the tension are in the concept
Rather than its realization.
The consonance of the High Renaissance
Is present, though distorted by the mirror.
What is novel is the extreme care in rendering
The velleities of the rounded reflecting surface
(It is the first mirror portrait),
So that you could be fooled for a moment
Before you realize the reflection
Isn't yours. You feel then like one of those
Hoffmann characters who have been deprived
Of a reflection, except that the whole of me
Is seen to be supplanted by the strict
Otherness of the painter in his
Other room. We have surprised him
At work, but no, he has surprised us
As he works. The picture is almost finished,
The surprise almost over, as when one looks out,
Startled by a snowfall which even now is
Ending in specks and sparkles of snow.
It happened while you were inside, asleep,
And there is no reason why you should have
Been awake for it, except that the day
Is ending and it will be hard for you
To get to sleep tonight, at least until late.
The shadow of the city injects its own
Urgency: Rome where Francesco
Was at work during the Sack: his inventions
Amazed the soldiers who burst in on him;
They decided to spare his life, but he left soon after;
Vienna where the painting is today, where
I saw it with Pierre in the summer of 1959; New York
Where I am now, which is a logarithm
Of other cities. Our landscape
Is alive with filiations, shuttlings;
Business is carried on by look, gesture,
Hearsay. It is another life to the city,
The backing of the looking glass of the
Unidentified but precisely sketched studio. It wants
To siphon off the life of the studio, deflate
Its mapped space to enactments, island it.
That operation has been temporarily stalled
But something new is on the way, a new preciosity
In the wind. Can you stand it,
Francesco? Are you strong enough for it?
This wind brings what it knows not, is
Self--propelled, blind, has no notion
Of itself. It is inertia that once
Acknowledged saps all activity, secret or public:
Whispers of the word that can't be understood
But can be felt, a chill, a blight
Moving outward along the capes and peninsulas
Of your nervures and so to the archipelagoes
And to the bathed, aired secrecy of the open sea.
This is its negative side. Its positive side is
Making you notice life and the stresses
That only seemed to go away, but now,
As this new mode questions, are seen to be
Hastening out of style. If they are to become classics
They must decide which side they are on.
Their reticence has undermined
The urban scenery, made its ambiguities
Look willful and tired, the games of an old man.
What we need now is this unlikely
Challenger pounding on the gates of an amazed
Castle. Your argument, Francesco,
Had begun to grow stale as no answer
Or answers were forthcoming. If it dissolves now
Into dust, that only means its time had come
Some time ago, but look now, and listen:
It may be that another life is stocked there
In recesses no one knew of; that it,
Not we, are the change; that we are in fact it
If we could get back to it, relive some of the way
It looked, turn our faces to the globe as it sets
And still be coming out all right:
Nerves normal, breath normal. Since it is a metaphor
Made to include us, we are a part of it and
Can live in it as in fact we have done,
Only leaving our minds bare for questioning
We now see will not take place at random
But in an orderly way that means to menace
Nobody--the normal way things are done,
Like the concentric growing up of days
Around a life: correctly, if you think about it.
A breeze like the turning of a page
Brings back your face: the moment
Takes such a big bite out of the haze
Of pleasant intuition it comes after.
The locking into place is "death itself,"
As Berg said of a phrase in Mahler's Ninth;
Or, to quote Imogen in Cymbeline, "There cannot
Be a pinch in death more sharp than this," for,
Though only exercise or tactic, it carries
The momentum of a conviction that had been building.
Mere forgetfulness cannot remove it
Nor wishing bring it back, as long as it remains
The white precipitate of its dream
In the climate of sighs flung across our world,
A cloth over a birdcage. But it is certain that
What is beautiful seems so only in relation to a specific
Life, experienced or not, channeled into some form
Steeped in the nostalgia of a collective past.
The light sinks today with an enthusiasm
I have known elsewhere, and known why
It seemed meaningful, that others felt this way
Years ago. I go on consulting
This mirror that is no longer mine
For as much brisk vacancy as is to be
My portion this time. And the vase is always full
Because there is only just so much room
And it accommodates everything. The sample
One sees is not to be taken as
Merely that, but as everything as it
May be imagined outside time--not as a gesture
But as all, in the refined, assimilable state.
But what is this universe the porch of
As it veers in and out, back and forth,
Refusing to surround us and still the only
Thing we can see? Love once
Tipped the scales but now is shadowed, invisible,
Though mysteriously present, around somewhere.
But we know it cannot be sandwiched
Between two adjacent moments, that its windings
Lead nowhere except to further tributaries
And that these empty themselves into a vague
Sense of something that can never be known
Even though it seems likely that each of us
Knows what it is and is capable of
Communicating it to the other. But the look
Some wear as a sign makes one want to
Push forward ignoring the apparent
NaÏveté of the attempt, not caring
That no one is listening, since the light
Has been lit once and for all in their eyes
And is present, unimpaired, a permanent anomaly,
Awake and silent. On the surface of it
There seems no special reason why that light
Should be focused by love, or why
The city falling with its beautiful suburbs
Into space always less clear, less defined,
Should read as the support of its progress,
The easel upon which the drama unfolded
To its own satisfaction and to the end
Of our dreaming, as we had never imagined
It would end, in worn daylight with the painted
Promise showing through as a gage, a bond.
This nondescript, never-to-be defined daytime is
The secret of where it takes place
And we can no longer return to the various
Conflicting statements gathered, lapses of memory
Of the principal witnesses. All we know
Is that we are a little early, that
Today has that special, lapidary
Todayness that the sunlight reproduces
Faithfully in casting twig-shadows on blithe
Sidewalks. No previous day would have been like this.
I used to think they were all alike,
That the present always looked the same to everybody
But this confusion drains away as one
Is always cresting into one's present.
Yet the "poetic," straw-colored space
Of the long corridor that leads back to the painting,
Its darkening opposite--is this
Some figment of "art," not to be imagined
As real, let alone special? Hasn't it too its lair
In the present we are always escaping from
And falling back into, as the waterwheel of days
Pursues its uneventful, even serene course?
I think it is trying to say it is today
And we must get out of it even as the public
Is pushing through the museum now so as to
Be out by closing time. You can't live there.
The gray glaze of the past attacks all know-how:
Secrets of wash and finish that took a lifetime
To learn and are reduced to the status of
Black-and-white illustrations in a book where colorplates
Are rare. That is, all time
Reduces to no special time. No one
Alludes to the change; to do so might
Involve calling attention to oneself
Which would augment the dread of not getting out
Before having seen the whole collection
(Except for the sculptures in the basement:
They are where they belong).
Our time gets to be veiled, compromised
By the portrait's will to endure. It hints at
Our own, which we were hoping to keep hidden.
We don't need paintings or
Doggerel written by mature poets when
The explosion is so precise, so fine.
Is there any point even in acknowledging
The existence of all that? Does it
Exist? Certainly the leisure to
Indulge stately pastimes doesn't,
Any more. Today has no margins, the event arrives
Flush with its edges, is of the same substance,
Indistinguishable. "Play" is something else;
It exists, in a society specifically
Organized as a demonstration of itself.
There is no other way, and those assholes
Who would confuse everything with their mirror games
Which seem to multiply stakes and possibilities, or
At least confuse issues by means of an investing
Aura that would corrode the architecture
Of the whole in a haze of suppressed mockery,
Are beside the point. They are out of the game,
Which doesn't exist until they are out of it.
It seems like a very hostile universe
But as the principle of each individual thing is
Hostile to, exists at the expense of all the others
As philosophers have often pointed out, at least
This thing, the mute, undivided present,
Has the justification of logic, which
In this instance isn't a bad thing
Or wouldn't be, if the way of telling
Didn't somehow intrude, twisting the end result
Into a caricature of itself. This always
Happens, as in the game where
A whispered phrase passed around the room
Ends up as something completely different.
It is the principle that makes works of art so unlike
What the artist intended. Often he finds
He has omitted the thing he started out to say
In the first place. Seduced by flowers,
Explicit pleasures, he blames himself (though
Secretly satisfied with the result), imagining
He had a say in the matter and exercised
An option of which he was hardly conscious,
Unaware that necessity circumvents such resolutions.
So as to create something new
For itself, that there is no other way,
That the history of creation proceeds according to
Stringent laws, and that things
Do get done in this way, but never the things
We set out to accomplish and wanted so desperately
To see come into being. Parmigianino
Must have realized this as he worked at his
Life-obstructing task. One is forced to read
The perfectly plausible accomplishment of a purpose
Into the smooth, perhaps even bland (but so
Enigmatic) finish. Is there anything
To be serious about beyond this otherness
That gets included in the most ordinary
Forms of daily activity, changing everything
Slightly and profoundly, and tearing the matter
Of creation, any creation, not just artistic creation
Out of our hands, to install it on some monstrous, near
Peak, too close to ignore, too far
For one to intervene? This otherness, this
"Not-being-us" is all there is to look at
In the mirror, though no one can say
How it came to be this way. A ship
Flying unknown colors has entered the harbor.
You are allowing extraneous matters
To break up your day, cloud the focus
Of the crystal ball. Its scene drifts away
Like vapor scattered on the wind. The fertile
Thought-associations that until now came
So easily, appear no more, or rarely. Their
Colorings are less intense, washed out
By autumn rains and winds, spoiled, muddied,
Given back to you because they are worthless.
Yet we are such creatures of habit that their
Implications are still around en permanence, confusing
Issues. To be serious only about sex
Is perhaps one way, but the sands are hissing
As they approach the beginning of the big slide
Into what happened. This past
Is now here: the painter's
Reflected face, in which we linger, receiving
Dreams and inspirations on an unassigned
Frequency, but the hues have turned metallic,
The curves and edges are not so rich. Each person
Has one big theory to explain the universe
But it doesn't tell the whole story
And in the end it is what is outside him
That matters, to him and especially to us
Who have been given no help whatever
In decoding our own man-size quotient and must rely
On second-hand knowledge. Yet I know
That no one else's taste is going to be
Any help, and might as well be ignored.
Once it seemed so perfect--gloss on the fine
Freckled skin, lips moistened as though about to part
Releasing speech, and the familiar look
Of clothes and furniture that one forgets.
This could have been our paradise: exotic
Refuge within an exhausted world, but that wasn't
In the cards, because it couldn't have been
The point. Aping naturalness may be the first step
Toward achieving an inner calm
But it is the first step only, and often
Remains a frozen gesture of welcome etched
On the air materializing behind it,
A convention. And we have really
No time for these, except to use them
For kindling. The sooner they are burnt up
The better for the roles we have to play.
Therefore I beseech you, withdraw that hand,
Offer it no longer as shield or greeting,
The shield of a greeting, Francesco:
There is room for one bullet in the chamber:
Our looking through the wrong end
Of the telescope as you fall back at a speed
Faster than that of light to flatten ultimately
Among the features of the room, an invitation
Never mailed, the "it was all a dream"
Syndrome, though the "all" tells tersely
Enough how it wasn't. Its existence
Was real, though troubled, and the ache
Of this waking dream can never drown out
The diagram still sketched on the wind,
Chosen, meant for me and materialized
In the disguising radiance of my room.
We have seen the city; it is the gibbous
Mirrored eye of an insect. All things happen
On its balcony and are resumed within,
But the action is the cold, syrupy flow
Of a pageant. One feels too confined,
Sifting the April sunlight for clues,
In the mere stillness of the ease of its
Parameter. The hand holds no chalk
And each part of the whole falls off
And cannot know it knew, except
Here and there, in cold pockets
Of remembrance, whispers out of time.
when you look in the mirror
it scares you to see your reflection
a worthless human being
who drags through the day
and wishes nightfall would come quicker
so you could hide that ugly face
the window to your soul
where people can see the rotting insides
so much rejection and pain
its too much
a simple punch
a loud smash
and that ugly reflection
is no more than a shattered mirror.
O, human love is brittle as a glass!
And breaks into pieces, you cannot glue,
Enticing people’s hearts, until they pass;
Succeeding in the hands of just a few!
You ought to handle it with supreme care,
Lest accidentally it falls and breaks;
Most times, it shows that life is still unfair,
Or mountains out of mole-hills, surely makes.
Sometimes, the silvering may much peel off,
Reflecting faces as weird as can be;
Sometimes, it makes you laugh or cry or scoff,
And shows that life can turn at times nasty.
Lucky are some to witness love life-long!
For most others, ’tis just a dainty song.
6-8-2001
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Who’s the fairest fair of all?
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Who’s the smartest head of all?
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Who’s that girl standing tall?
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Who's to hold me when I fall?
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Why are you not answering my call?
Oh mirror...
The lines and the scars you do not hide;
My scattered thoughts you would not guide.
Me myself and I; the gap so wide.
Oh mirror; you make me look inside!
You show me a girl against the tide,
By the rules she would not abide.
Within your frame, a caged spirit am I?
By your name, what voice have I?
Oh mirror … can you hear me?
My mirror is deceiving me!
I will show you my smile... will you let me?
A star in my eyes... will you get me?
I will show you a happy face... please let me!
A shelter from myself... please get me!
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Do not show me her face;
I have killed her and left no trace.
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
She shall never stutter;
With a new voice, words she will utter.
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Her fear you shall never show;
Fearless she is to know.
Mirror... mirror on the wall,
Do not point at her scars;
It hurts... not her scars.
Oh mirror...
There is no Santa but tell her not;
Dreams are dreams but wake her not.
She will give in... tell her not to.
She will give up... tell her not to.
Cruel mirror...
Why show me a figure so broken?
Why tell me words unspoken?
My mirror...
Every time I look at you
I miss a line in her face.
Every time I come to you
A part of her I erase.
Every time I need you
I abandon her grace.
So my mirror..
Where is the little fat girl that you used to show me?
Where are the frightened eyes that used to look at me?
Is she still hiding her smile with her hand?
Is she still looking for a magic wand?
You loved her not;
You loved me a lot!
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
What have I done?
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Where has she gone?
Mirror … mirror on the wall,
Which way do I run?
Yes mirror...
How I wish I could give you my back
and never look at you again.
How I wish I could leave you on a rack
and never fall for your tricks again.
Oh mirror... Why can’t you lie?
Why don’t you tell me that I am the fairest fair of all?
Why don’t you tell me that I am the smartest head of all?
Why don’t you let me stand proud and tall?
Will you at least be there when I fall?
Oh … Mirror … mirror on the wall …
Why are you not answering my call?
I stare into the mirror.
Staring at what looks like me,
But isn't.
That's not my reflection.
It's the appearance I thought I hid.
It's the screaming I hear
Inside my head.
It appears in the mirror.
An apparition of the past.
The thoughts I feel
Became physical,
No longer mental.
My eyes stared back at me.
That sad, lonely face appeared.
And for an instant I saw my strength.
The strength I thought I lost
A once strong person on the outside
Becomes how she feels on the inside.
Lost, but with a glint of hope.
Barely there, tiny in size,
But nevertheless
The strength I need
To move away from the mirror image.
The rich house had in the hall
An enormous mirror, very old;
Bought at least eighty years ago.
A very handsome boy, assistant at a tailor’s
(On Sundays an amateur athlete),
Was standing there with a parcel. He handed it
To someone of the house, and he took it inside
To fetch the receipt. The tailor’s assistant
Was left alone, and waited.
He went up to the mirror and began to look at himself
And put his tie straight. After five minutes
They brought him the receipt. He took it and went away.
But the old mirror which had seen, and seen,
In the many years it had been
In existence, thousands of things and faces;
The old mirror was glad now
And was proud to have received upon itself
That entire beauty for a few minutes.
A mirror hung upon a wall.
A man, quite handsome, also tall
stepped up to look inside the glass
and gave himself the nod, the pass.
He saw exquisite, handsome features
superior to all other creatures.
Black hair and pearl white teeth to smile
Amana suit completes the style.
His nails were short and manicured
flat stomach muscles had endured
so many sessions of the crunches
and, from inside,   Martini lunches.
Two diamonds hung from his sleeves
and maple golden rings, like leaves
adorned pink ears and looked expensive
his jewellery was quite extensive
and in addition, on his arms
two Rolexes, with loud alarms.
He stood and looked from head to toes
but did not know a mirror shows
to all the world just your outside
what counts is all the things you hide.
For Mahnaz whose poem inspired me as much as she does
Why don’t you do it?
Why cause me pain?
Can’t you make up your mind?
Won’t you love again?
You say that you’ll do it
The love will return
The warm smell of comfort
The passion will burn
The fire within you
Will ignite again
They’ll be no holding back
No want for refrain
Your thoughts are deceitful!
Why do you lie!
One way conversation
There is no reply
Your glacier expression
Please consider it all
Think on what I’ve said
As you hang on the wall
Seeing is believing.
Whatever was thought or said,
these persistent, inexorable deaths
make faith as such absent,
our humanness a question,
a disgust for what we are.
Whatever the hope,
here it is lost.
Because we coveted our difference,
here is the cost.
Into my eyes he lovingly looked,
My arms about his neck were twined,
And in the mirror of my eyes,
What but his image did he find?
Upon my dark-hued eyes he pressed
His lips with breath of passion rare.
The rogue! 'Twas not my eyes he kissed;
He kissed his picture mirrored there.
EARLY one day, the Muse, when eagerly bent on adornment,
Follow'd a swift-running streamlet, the quietest nook by it seeking.
Quickly and noisily flowing, the changeful surface distorted
Ever her moving form; the goddess departed in anger.
Yet the stream call'd mockingly after her, saying: "What, truly!
Wilt thou not view, then, the truth, in my mirror so clearly depicted?"
But she already was far away, on the brink of the ocean,
In her figure rejoicing, and duly arranging her garland.
I sat before my glass one day,
And conjured up a vision bare,
Unlike the aspects glad and gay,
That erst were found reflected there -
The vision of a woman, wild
With more than womanly despair.
Her hair stood back on either side
A face bereft of loveliness.
It had no envy now to hide
What once no man on earth could guess.
It formed the thorny aureole
Of hard, unsanctified distress.
Her lips were open - not a sound
Came though the parted lines of red,
Whate'er it was, the hideous wound
In silence and secret bled.
No sigh relieved her speechless woe,
She had no voice to speak her dread.
And in her lurid eyes there shone
The dying flame of life's desire,
Made mad because its hope was gone,
And kindled at the leaping fire
Of jealousy and fierce revenge,
And strength that could not change nor tire.
Shade of a shadow in the glass,
O set the crystal surface free!
Pass - as the fairer visions pass -
Nor ever more return, to be
The ghost of a distracted hour,
That heard me whisper: - 'I am she!'
A resolute presentation on the edge of a dawn infiltration;
foundations firmly planted on a bed of ignorant fertility
Sullen condensation; a viscous fog totters in,
Seething and breathing its roiling, heavy, rolling sum,
sternly nurturing its torrential attrition:
physical, chemical; constantly, incisively
The morning, left uncomfortable, promises a cloudy noon.
Shadows within evergreen resplendence sigh with Night.
In fluid variegation, flowers bloom while brambles ensnare,
a bittersweet cooperation of estranged provocation:
collaborating selfishly, persistently inseperable,
unforgiving in the umbra of a crepuscular grudge.
Shivering silver sliver slips slowly to the sky,
ensorcelling wood and beast.
Deep forests' darkness claim the very earth
heedlessly flaunting its haunted emptiness.
nocturnal hunger: stalking, lusting,
challenges thorns and tramples flowers,
pursuing secret roots for repast; blind,
A haggard satisfaction; an unnecessary tempest
Sickening garden decomposed: a profusion of rot,
steaming mournfully out into the sombre midnight
When I pass a mirror
and catch you watching me,
I'm stricken with the strangest chill
that no one else can see.
The resemblance is uncanny.
The face, the hair, the nose.
I'm even just about your height.
I guess that's how it goes.
I'll always be reminded
of when you went away
each time I pass a mirror...
(That's every single day.)
Mirror Mirror Don’t You Think
Mirror mirror on the wall
Don’t you ever think?
When I wash in the bathroom sink
That I want to be alone but all I see
Is the mirror reflection of me
Copying my ever move
Staring at me just to prove
I’m alive at the most
Ah you’re so wrong for I’m a ghost
So for your wrong detection
I should show no reflection
So being the good ghost I am
I will let you off with a little crack
An if you do it again I will be back
With a hammer attack!
Mirror Mirror Don’t You Think
on the other side,
you cannot see,
what a broken record i can be,
this darkend mirror,
hiding all my fear,
that only i can see,
in this darkend reflection stareing back at me,
it seems if the world is spinning so fast,
and i know that my life will not last,
falling  to the ground in pain,
when i go who will you blame?
i'm such a misfit lost in the world,
i was fine before,
but i cannot see no more,
for i am blinded by death.
I live only here, between your eyes and you,
But I live in your world. What do I do?
--Collect no interest--otherwise what I can;
Above all I am not that staring man.
Who discovered the mirror?
We don't, at all, remember.
To show our faces beautiful,
How much it's really useful?
Above the wash basin
The glittering teeth clean
We see first every morn,
Before the day starts on.
The curly hair to comb,
The mustache to trim,
The oily face to foam,
How it helps at home?
Is there any beauty parlor,
Or a fancy dress store,
Or a modern shop tailor,
With no full size mirror?
Inside the ladies hand bags,
Or the gents coat pockets,
How the tiny mirror hides,
For their face-touch up uses?
To see the distant stars,
Or to find the tiny microbes,
How it serves a giant telescope,
Or a small but sharp microscope?
Mirror, mirror everywhere,
With our life for it to share,
Thanks to the unknown discoverer
For this all-time useful mirror.
Who is this aging woman I see in the mirror?
Who is this woman with the tear filled eyes?
Who is this woman with the broken heart?
Who is she? Is it Me?
Have I changed so much?
Has time torn apart, my happier heart?
Has time changed the skies,
from blue to grey?
Has time turned the
pain of night also to the day?
Has time worn a hole,
into the cloth of my life,
into the marrow of my soul?
Where did it go, That happy life?
Who made my soul feel this pain,
feel this strife?
Who is this woman
with the tear stained face?
She lost her heart pain took its place!
Who is this woman?
Helen of Troy had a wandering glance;
Sappho's restriction was only the sky;
Ninon was ever the chatter of France;
But oh, what a good girl am I!
Methinks I see your mirror frame,
Ornate with photographs of them.
Place mine therein, for, all the same,
I'll have my little laughs at them.
For girls may come, and girls may go,
I think I have the best of them;
And yet this photograph I know
You'll toss among the rest of them.
I cannot even hope that you
Will put me in your locket, dear;
Nor costly frame will I look through,
Nor bide in your breast pocket, dear.
For none your heart monopolize,
You favour such a nest of them.
So I but hope your roving eyes
Seek mine among the rest of them.
For saucy sprite, and noble dame,
And many a dainty maid of them
Will greet me in your mirror frame,
And share your kisses laid on them.
And yet, sometimes I fancy, dear,
You hold me as the best of them.
So I'm content if I appear
To-night with all the rest of them.
You look good and you know it too
Why no one is as pretty as you
You bought yourself a new car,
Fancy clothes, going to the bar.
High heel shoes, elegant jewels
Ready to party, no hard rules
You think you’re full of class
Your money says it’s so
Always on the go, spending that money
Well just remember this honey
Money can’t buy you class, happiness or respect
Not knowing what you’re doing, be careful what you get.
Could it be possible to live without money?
Why can’t man live without money in the world?
Long back I saw an African movie about this;
It is called “Gods Must Be Crazy! ”
One can get the idea to live without money!
Even today people are living life in farm houses
Far away from the civilised world of materialism
Without needing money for any purpose there!
In the forest and farm houses far away from towns
Life of the people needs no money at all it seems!
We can live without money but not without hunger!
Nature has given hunger and also all things to survive;
It is man’s own creation to live as slaves of comforts
In the world where nothing is permanent in time bound life!
nothing comes free..here
everything is tagged
excepting life...strange
life given to us not tagged
the days and nights given
are not tagged even
even then....
day in and day out
i am all out
searching ways and means
to make my money...
i do not pay any money
for the sun and breeze
god in nature an absolute giver
praying for wealth and prosperity
praying for money...money..and more money...to god
i feel will get us not even a penny
GOD DOES NOT KNOW OUR MONEY
when you send your kid on a trip away
you will give him money to spend on the way
we were sent here without a penny
when i return as dead stock one day
worldly wise kith and kin of my
send me with a penny on my forehead
just a penny?
is that what i was worth...or
is that the way fare to hell or heaven
just a penny?
With increasing needs thoughts of money have increased
And man is left in the world to live only for money forever!
It is not possible to drink, eat and live without money here;
Money thirst for everything has made man addict of money!
Taxation, price rise and mismanagement tighten one’s belt
National financial crisis coupled with world economic woes
Due to international crude oil price hike add fuel to fire ever!
Protectionism and subsidies of advanced nations strike world.
Wars and terrorist activities worsened all to face world recession;
Gold price hike and oil price hike have created turmoil unbearable!
For want of funds everyone indulges in short cut routes to riches;
There is no chance of recovery from addiction to money anymore!
Lottery, gambling, horse race and lotto many people go for
To earn fast buck so as to satisfy money hunger some how!
Betting on boxing, wrestling, cricket, general elections go on
And indirectly many accrue black money to meet their needs!
All black monies big shots deposit in Swiss bank to use abroad
By way of making exports using under invoices for many goods!
All due to bad policies of govts. and corrupt practices everywhere
Dark acts perpetrate black economy propelled by this addiction!
Because of money people wish on others harm or ill
And because of money people others do injure or kill
And because of money great friendships have come to an end
And money can make you an enemy or make you a friend
To those with the power of money respect we do pay
And money speaks every language some are known to say
And those with the most money great power do command
That is something that is not hard to understand
Those with heaps of money enjoy the good life
The millionaire in his seventies has a twenty two year old wife
With brown hair to her shoulders and lovely to behold
She would not be with him if he were poor and old
But because of his money with him she will stay
Money speaks every language that's life as some say.
Cigarette addiction kills people
But it makes me lots of money
It ruins their health
But it makes me lots of money
They cannot breathe properly
But it makes me lots of money
Their addiction causes them misery
But it makes me lots of money
A trillion cigarette butts pollute our earth daily
But it makes me lots of money
Cigarettes cause fires which burn many people to death
But it makes me lots of money
Parents buy cigarettes when their children need to eat
But it makes me lots of money
Cigarette smoke fills our bars and nightclubs, very unpleasant
But it makes me lots of money
Dirty ashtrays are disgusting
But it makes me lots of money
Why are you allowed to promote and sell such a disgusting product?
Because I've got lots of money
(Sydney, Australia - 2003)
Don't waste your money on me
I appreciate that you were thinking about me
But I think that you should save your money
For a raining day
Due to money good friendships have come to an end
For money can make an enemy out of a friend
And due to money many are serving prison time
For money or lack of it leads many to serious crime
Due to money the Fifth Commandment has often been broken it does seem sad to say
That some with their lives due to money do pay
Those who say money is not important to reality not true
If you owe someone a lot of money for Court you are due
Whoever say money is not important believe their own lie
People have been bashed over money and left there to die
And people due to money feel happy to deceive
And that it does speak every language you ought to believe
Yes money out of a friend can make a foe
I am telling you something you already know.
Gran father money
Father money
Mother money
Brother money
Sister money
Friends money
All moneyees are
Others only others...
Don't loves other moneys
On the way of life
Love your money...
Enjoy your money
Earn your won money...
Each every day you and others...!
Outside the long window,
With his head on the stone sill,
The dog is lying,
Gazing at his Beloved.
His eyes are wet and urgent,
And his body is taut and shaking.
It is cold on the terrace;
A pale wind licks along the stone slabs,
But the dog gazes through the glass
And is content.
The Beloved is writing a letter.
Occasionally she speaks to the dog,
But she is thinking of her writing.
Does she, too, give her devotion to one
Not worthy?
Long have I lived this life. I have finally come
to the realization, that all the gold in the world,
is not worthy, of one once of love.
Do not vanquish yourself, on the alter
of that which is materialistic or the gathering
of riches.
For in the end, there is not one among us, who
would trade all things of wealth, for yet one
more day of life.
In our final moments, it is love...or the lack of
it, that will define our moments of life and bring
to us...peace.
© Joe Fazio
Seems everyone just hates to see me change
But my brain feels maimed with no ambition of fame
Just money and its funny all I want is that and my honey
Coz the rest are all dummies and I can’t get chummy
With new people who are feeble, fake, and evil
And old friends who crossed me are no longer equals
So i'm use to standing alone prone to breaking thrones
A war zone is my home and a battling I shall go
No love for my peers not after all these years
I won’t shed a tear to hear u all lost what is dear
Coz u haven’t got a clue on what it means to be true
All u do is front, your lost in an image that isn’t you
Like your all a heard of sheep, your all the same no one is unique
U will never reach the peak with all that rubbish you speak
A petty lil criminal running his mouth like he hard is so pitiful
Taking advice from a prisoner? U idiot that’s why u minimal
Wise up learn from the quiet ones before your freedom is critical
Financial steps led
Shoes thru the same greedy grease
Man's Blind bluff
If you have money problems your problems are not small
And that money speaks all languages that goes for one and all
But that money cannot buy happiness that seems so very true
And to the battlers who keep keeping on great credit must be due,
There are so many paupers for every millionaire
And for millions of people life must seem so unfair
It truly is a rat race in the bigger World out there
And people with compassion have never been so rare,
The poor keep getting poorer whilst the wealthy more wealthy grow
And like tis said how one half live the other half would not know
And an egalatarian World from us seems far away
And even in so called wealthy Nations poverty is rife today
And if you have money problems and are in financial strife
then you are made to struggle with the cross you bear in life.
He is sixty his hair dyed brown and she is a natural blond of nineteen
And strolling hand in hand along the beach road every evening they are seen
His grandchildren as old as she is it is so true what they say
That money does speak every language and it has always been this way.
In a World where money matters men of money seem to rule
And with a rolls royce in his garage and an indoor heated swimming pool
She must see him as a good catch though he is years beyond his prime
And he is smitten by her beauty and he buys her a good time.
One less attractive young woman for to woo for the single young males of the town
For the fellow in his sixties she has turned all suitors down
Those who say love only matters must believe in their own lie
She has knocked back men of her own age for to be with the wealthy older guy.
To those who talk of love and passion pay no heed to what they say
For in a World where money matters the sugar daddy leads the way
To find himself a young beauty he doesn't even have to try
For in a World where money matters there's little money cannot buy.
He is sixty his hair dyed brown and he goes walking hand in hand
With a young beauty of nineteen and that's not hard to understand
For in a World where money matters he is a known millionaire
And the young males of him jealous doesn't life seem very unfair?
Lord help me pay my bills, that's what I said yesterday
As my pen ran out of ink and my bank balance shrank
To nothing shy of the current most recent figures for poverty
Lord help me pay my bills, that's what I said this morning
As my calculator went on the blink and my bank balance
Continued to shrink and shrink and shrink
Lord help me pay my bills, it's what I'm thinking now
Taking the cow to the market and trading it for magic beans
The truck's tires are worn thin like the financial state I'm in
And the beans that I get for the cow probably won't sprout into a stalk
Tall enough and strong enough to reach Heaven's door
Because with all my problems and yours.....
We both forgot to pray to him asking for this drought to end....
2007 © T Sheridan
One can liken love to money; If one
gives a bit to everyone they meet,
you will find many who do not return it.
Give love wisely, least you retain a
portion for those who are worthy.
© Joe Fazio
Money
Is not money...
It is life....
Money is not
Money
It is happy...
Money is
Not money
It is faith...
Money is not
Money
It is friend...
Money is not
Money
It is  life maker...
Money is not
Money...
It is your hard work...
Money is not
Money...
poors god...
money is not
Money
Rich people Cap...
Money is not
Money
World wide all...
Any or many thing money
With money...
So...
Love the money...
Each every day...
Earn too enjoy
with your's life...
witrh good...!
Matter is more important than mind or heart
In this money world that rules all mankind!
Machine does more than what man can do
And man is made a servant of machine care!
The time saved by machine work is not used
Well for the betterment of man's world but are
Used for the accumulation of more money only
And man wastes time in gambling for money!
Man has become a slave of machine and money
That make him think and plan for their development
But not for the development of mind and spirit
For which all inventions were made to save time!
Caught among machine, money and time man is mad
Now not knowing how to regain his glorious state again!
Had you a choice, would you choose a
mate for money or for what the person
represents?
Your answer reveals the shallowness or
the depth of who you are.
© Joe Fazio
Mind set
All to make money
Shut heart and soul
Banging on
Made money sequenced
Bribes and bribed
Sedately wet
Vamped, smoked, drugged
To racing
On blackened therapy of escapism
Path of confession opens
Walk in to treat
The heart and soul
Money, get away
Get a good job with more pay and your O.K.
Money it's a gas
Grab that cash with both hands and make a stash…….(Pink Floyd)
Apparently to Hillary Clinton Presidential Campaign
- did not have enough of it.
To think, Hillary with all her clout, with Bill’s clout,
With her being the First Lady for eight years,
(even though she was in a corner,
While Monika played First Mistress, after all Bill was hornier)
The Clintons are worth ten of millions of dollars,
Then why do her campaign aides work for free,
At least one month, are they altruistic or that naïve?
Barack (or some bumbling reporter said his name Barrack, (as in barracks)
I wonder if Gomer Pyle, USMC had something to do with this?)
Raised the bar by getting huge endorsements Oprah, Sweet Caroline, (bop-bop-bop) ,
The terminator’s wife and lastly a man,
Senator Ted Kennedy,
By his actions or inactions,
was responsible for the death of Mary Jo Kopekne
(see observation Well Hello Mary Jo)
And Money, three times the amount Hillary raised in January.
Hillary was bound by the recent voter’s laws and laws governing the PAC.
She attempting to beat Obama by outspending him, therefore she will be,
The Leader of the PAC(k) .  She learned it from Ron Reagan vicariously,
Ron Regan led the USA to outspend and out produce the Soviet Union.
That is why there was not shot fired between the NATO and Warsaw Pact troops,
That brought an end to the Cold War which existed for a half century.
But Barack learned as well. He is the underdog,
Like in the last Super Bowl XLII, he is the Giant,
Not from New York,
Ready to close in on Hillary in the last two minutes of the game, the final warning.
His campaign is self-reliant,
he does not ask his workers to work for free,
If the Democrats are smart they should stay with Barack,
Come to think of it I hadn’t heard from Bill in awhile,
it’s not his style,
So his campaign strategy for Hillary backfired,
to belittle an opponent took some guile.
(2-7-2008)
Money and me, we’re such a team
Money and me, inseparable we
Money and me, together we dream
Money and me, in harmony
Money and me, such synergy
Money and me, so much in love
Money and me, a power to be
Money and me, we’re hand in glove.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2009
Money can buy a house,
But not a home.
Money can buy a pen,
Not a writing.
Money can buy a book,
But not knowledge.
Money can buy a fan
But not wind.
Money can buy  a bed,
But not sleep.
Money can buy an equipment,
But not a skill.
Money can buy food,
But not appetite.
Money can buy luxuries,
But not culture.
Money can buy amusement,
But not happiness.l
The rich and famous
can buy almost everything,
As long cash pours in.
Money can buy happiness,
but never true contentment!
Money can’t buy you class
Happiness or respect
Just remember that
Money was made
To buy you some comfort
That you need in life
That is all
My belly aches for precious food
my androgens are in the mood,
one foot already in the grave
the other one acts rather brave.
Each calendar does lie a bit
and one has placed me in the shit.
A silver lining in my hair
and shaped I am just like a pear.
So many early warning wrinkles
and endless, unproductive  tinkles,
some clerks now dare to call me dear
a wonder that I still can hear.
I see my cute optometrist
with glassy eyes, inside the mist
and when I pay for groceries
I reach and take the first green peace
out of the wallet, giving gladly,
my sight has sunk to 'rather badly',
it is my cottonpickin head
that wants to keep from being dead.
I pay the charlatan  and quack
to feed me pills and fix my back.
While longing for longevity
I do forget that one small key
has been created for my soul
when God designed it to a role.
But, never one to listen much
I aim to commandeer a touch
of real immortality
all for a lousy service fee.
And when I'm down to my last coin
and angels beckon me to join
I'll have no choice and will not care
and, like a blinded forest hare
I do remain in place and freeze
then give the world a final sneeze.
I think the words above might say
it matters not what we can pay
and that we would be well advised
not to be cut or analysed.
There comes a time when your own number
unlocks the door to endless slumber.
So I shall keep my hard-earned cash
by now it is a hefty stash.
And take it to the Never-Never
a move that labels me as clever.
So, having been on earth a scrooge
the benefits shall be quite huge.
Make-over for the mind and bod
and pay the man, in this case, God.
Can money give you ample sleep at night?
Can money bring you satiety you want?
Can money soothe the heart and mind aggrieved?
Can money resurrect a person dead?
Can money cause fertility in wombs?
Can money heal the wounds of minds and hearts?
Can money make up for one’s parents’ love?
Can money work a miracle you want?
Can money cure a cancer of grade four?
Can money bring joy to a childless pair?
Can money purchase your seat in heaven?
Can money solve all problems that you face?
There are so many things money can’t do;
Your trust in God and labor, matter too.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-27-2008
Don't listen to a word they say,
Money can't really be that way,
To say money is evil surely can't be true,
Isn't it something that we all love to use,
To think that money is evil would you have to agree
That the thing that prints it would as evil as can be!
Wouldn't that mean that the Government
Is the root of all this evil merriment,
Simply because they print all of it!
When all birds else do of their music fail,
Money's the still-sweet-singing nightingale!
Baby, you are soft and sleek,
Wearing cotton and linen dress,
Attiring security thread, so clear,
The soil's water mark, run over,
Who make you so authoritative?
Every human falls for your eye wink,
The colors chosen to brighten you,
Every one of you worth to be adored,
When men's sweat worth your value,
Who make you so perfect?
How many master engravers work on you,
To have the perfect portrait and border,
Are you exposed to UV lights to get burnt?
After bathing, you do go for press setting,
Everyone work on you to make your mold,
The details of dots, fine lines, design and text,
Historical images on your face,
The signature at your hips,
Tight security at your birth place,
Transferred to the destinations,
In armored vehicles,
When you go on the streets,
With the siren on and blinking,
Everyone looks at you in desperation,
The children shouts, ‘Money, Money', .
Professed striving, thriving in kitchen life
Woman of yesterday was a home maid
Call her not a homemaker or housewife
A home maid unpaid and future benighted
Illiterate slave literate in home science
Deprived of finance for days ahead
Suppressed in fearful negligence
Dear and near, not to be truly so supposed
Necessity out of such a pity
Woman of olden time
Saved in her kitty
Annas, paise to chime.
Unreally smiling out of disguised injustice
Done to her by a domestic law
To herself collected coins, fortune to splice
Woman of moral law
Begotten parental assets begotten
Life raised husband and his folks
Counting her collection the woman forlorn
From mercy somebody the beseeched alms
Her pouch of coins didn't change
Unchanged the least quantum amount too
No depositing, no investing to challange
No interest, no dividend to woo
Passed on from husband to son
Hopes on despair built
Survival of a grand-ma's funeral now to shun.
Stealthily on money matters spoken about.
On her couch of death
Ready to depart her pouch.
Struggling through her last breath
Her savings presented to her funeral march
I do not believe in money
I believe not in money money funny
the misuse of money so ugly
I do not believe in money
I believe in people
the gifts of certain people
I believe in people of dreams
people of pure passion dreams
lived with intensity beautiful souls
I believe in artistic passion people
who quit patchworks creative contrasts
who gift minds eye beautiful melodies
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
We all crave and long for money;
the rich, the poor, the young
and old cry for money to keep and hold.
We crave to be masters of money
or end up to be money´s slaves.
Either way, we fall into the pit
if money becomes our masters
and we end up, enslaved by money.
Money is only a gift to use and share
It cannot last for long, for like water,
it flows and evaporates.
Ask for money and work for it
but let it not be your master
to be served, but a simple resource
to use, share and give to those in need.
Years of toil sweat and struggle
Looking for gold in all that rubble,
Now Jock and I struck it rich
In the middle of a no where ditch.
Now it's all safe in the bank
An' put us up a little in life's rank,
Being so perplexed I sent to Jock a text,
"Now what on earth are we going to look for next? "
NB Money does not bring happiness,
but you can buy a yacht and moor next to it.
Then sail away to find another no where ditch,
But it's in the bottom of your head, which
If you listen it's  your happiness shouting
WAITING ONLY TO BE LET OUT!
I know I have the answers
I’m sure I have the cure
Immaculate cars, pretty dancers
That will thrill you right to the core
All your dreams will be fulfilled
And you’ll have friends, where you go
No matter how plain or unskilled
You will be the star of the show
It’ll take just a bit of money
Just like the sweetest drops of honey
Just a little bit of money
Money, money, money, money
You want some respect
You just like to feel revered
You want some loving aspect
You want to know that someone cared
You’ll find plenty of sycophants
Catering to your every desire
A menagerie of madness not by chance
Beckoning you ever closer to the fire
All it takes is just a bit of money
Just like the sweetest drops of honey
Just a little bit of money
Money, money, money, money
You say you want to run this world
Puppet Master, part gambler too?
All the riches you will soon unfurl
Wall Street and banker are you
You can climb this hill so much faster
By making greater the ranks of the poor
Profiting mightily from their disaster
After all what are useless eaters for?
All it takes is just a bit of money
Just like the sweetest drops of honey
Just a little bit of money
Money, money, money, money
Accounts
cause
amounts.
Loans
cause
groans.
Bills
cause
ills.
Bets
cause
debts.
Riches
cause
b itches.
Shares
cause
millionaires! ! !
Holds fast to money
You can not do anything
Without money
Money gives you status
And position
Go on calculation
Money begets respect
And honor
Hoard money my dear
And remember
Money is only for
Mundane pleasure
Where you find
Death is near.
Money Money Money
You're just a a thing in itself
But why is it your controlling me
Bit by bit you consume my sanity...
You're  not a king but it seems like
You're everywhere...
Money Money Money
You turn myself full of greed......
I know that your a need
But then I'm not contended..
I have more of you
but seems like its not enough.....
Money Money Money
You were just created by man
But then man spare life just for you...
Crime and addiction emerged because of you...
Rich man had enough of you...
But then there the one who had  the urge to kill
Just a thing... a money?
How it seems...
Money Money Money
Are you the one who rule our lives
Without you we intend to die?
What made you so important...?
Worship you not even God
Replacing love as our life..
But money as a thing
That can ruin our life!
But which came first?
Money or man?
Yes man!
And now money rules man, doesn’t that tell you something?
Money isn’t natural.
Money is worthless in the eyes of nature yet money rules the world.
Money is the God that man worships.
Money is metal, paper and numbers.
Money is what we spend all our lives working for.
Money is what we spend all our lives spending.
Money is what keeps us going.
Money is what keeps us down.
Money is power and greed.
Capitalism is the new religion and
God has been sold out for the pound.
Money is what makes man thinks he is better than man!
money makes sense
sometimes we make sense with what makes sense
money money money
makes this spin a little faster
we want to make more
and then we see what we do not want to see
gnarled conscience
whorled integrity
shrinking soul
lost self.
money money money
makes my world dimmer
makes us happy somehow
but for how long?
Money! money! money! “who”, needs money?
Yeah right, - ask me another question honey-
From day one, - money rules our lives.
How much we are worth, is how well we survive.
If we are born to wealth, clout, and prominence
We can be assured; the people will acknowledge our
Dominance.
However if it so happens we are born poor, we only have dreams.
Dreams to be, - to be on top of the - so-called - social hierarchy
Yes through our lives, we dream the UN - dream - able
Our dreams may even cause our minds to become unstable
Whose idea was it to initiate such a craze as money anyhow?
It sure wasn’t the Indians, for they greeted us with the word, -
“How! ”
If it were up to me, I’d rob Fort Knox, and dump the goal in
The middle of the ocean.
Without a core value for money, this would start quite a commotion
Who knows it may even be the beginning of a brand new day.
For to give, share, serve, love, - would be given every which way
9/11/06
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
…Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
…Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money, Money, give me some more
And the thirst for money never ends
Money, Money, give me some more
And the drive to get more money
Deprives the needy from the use of money.
You have money
You are hungry
You have money
You are not getting anything
You have money
You have no love
You have no fresh air
You have money
You are not getting anything
You have money
You are alone
You have money
You have no place to stay
You have money
You have mp humanity
You have no sensibility
You are nothing
You have money
And you are bankrupt
And you are not happy.
Money money
Is going to get me a girl
Money money
I am going to use it to buy me a cup of coffee
Money money
Is going to take me to Paris
Money money
Is going to buy me some new clothes
Money money
I am going to use it to do my laundry
Momey money
Is going to buy me some groceries
Money money
Is going to pay to fix my house
Money money
Is going to send me to the rich men's world
Money money is going to buy me a cellular phone
Money is survival
Money is nice
to have
but if your not
careful it can
become your God
without you realizing
money is loaned
to us, just has
your life is
loaned.
Money is a kind of poetry.
- Wallace Stevens
Money, the long green,
cash, stash, rhino, jack
or just plain dough.
Chock it up, fork it over,
shell it out. Watch it
burn holes through pockets.
To be made of it! To have it
to burn! Greenbacks, double eagles,
megabucks and Ginnie Maes.
It greases the palm, feathers a nest,
holds heads above water,
makes both ends meet.
Money breeds money.
Gathering interest, compounding daily.
Always in circulation.
Money. You don't know where it's been,
but you put it where your mouth is.
And it talks.
We walk down many avenues,
and along many streets,
unfortunately none are paved with gold.
We have to make our own riches,
for when we do we appreciate them more.
If we were given wealth untold,
we would not appreciate it.
Better to earn our money,
we then appreciate it more.
Money can buy many things,
with that I will agree,
but money cannot buy everything,
and those word are also true.
It cannot buy the respect,
from our fellow man,
that has to be earnt too.
It cannot buy lasting love,
as that comes once,
only in our lifetime.
Nor can it buy happiness
that can only come from within us.
Money can buy material things,
clothes and food as such.
But it can ever buy
those most precious things
that we all hold so dear.
It will never buy,
another’s warm and loving soul,
who will be beside us,
throughout of lasting days.
17 June 2007
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
…Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
…Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
….Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
...Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
..Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
.Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money Money
Putting money in the bank
Feeding the pig
He eats it with joy
And does a cute jig
Money grows on trees
That won't come true
Spending too much
But you don't have a clue
Earning it back
One coin at a time
Unclogging drains
And fences, I must climb
(*yawn* Winter 2008, Age 11, Door County, Wisconsin)
<3  I luv y'all,
Emma :)
In the Human World money speaks every language some say
And all things have a price on them 'twould seem that way
And though the reaper will one day claim the lives of you and I
It costs money to live and it costs money to die.
The beautiful young woman for a partner has an old billionaire
That he is useless in bed she does not seem to care
He believes her when she tells him she loves him but for his money she lie
Since she will be very wealthy when he die.
So very restricted by their poverty
The working poor cannot take their wives out to tea
To provide for their families on a small wage they get by
But a good sort of life style they don't have to enjoy.
Lack of money may lead to a good appetite
But do not expect to live to an old age on a very poor diet
The old sugar daddy is enjoying the good life
With his twenty four years old blond good looking wife.
money can be power
many people become inslave to the almighty dollar
it fuels an economy it ends an nation
brings pleasure to oneself
brings pain to onesself
it causes desperration and sets chains to oneself
indivduals inject the money dope into there vains
to bring them happiness but it leaves them insane
people who lack it want it
people who have it want more
money is infatuation it can bring you sex from a whore
but it blinds you from the ones you should adore
it affects brain it brings stress to your state of mind, it leaves your head with a receeded hair line
it pollutes the world because money is toxicity, it causes you to over eat and it leaves you with obesity
it can be a stab in the back a kick in the ass, it can leave you in the street wishin you were in the past
it produces greed it plants the seed of something you cant live without and something you need
it speaks every language and its never ignored, we give money to the church because they say its for the lord
thats bullshit, if in worship we are the performers, and God is the audience that we see, shouldnt worship be free?
survival of the fittest in this time people are working from 9 to 5 for the nickel dime
a cancer in society a false form piety
a fake form of religion shared by the royalty with an undying loyalty
without it you have fear of where are you going to be next year
gives you a sense of importance that you can sit but really your nothing but a piece of shit
money creates a nation that divides within a class you reside with the rules that you have to abide
before you know it you have died.
murder, genocide, for piece of paper, it comes and goes and evaporates like a vapor
its a big chip on your back its should be the number one cause of death not a heart attack
it can give a new hope if your stuck but, without it your fucked
moneys history has a beginning and a rise to fame many have died in its name
the way we grope over it we should feel ashamed
because of it my older brother is lost in its game
black mexican asian caucasian money is the form of our persuasion
maybe one day wil see that theres more to life that can be
but i know until then, i know that my life isnt free.
Money can buy costumes but not beauty
Money can buy idols but not devotion
Money can buy books but not wisdom and knowledge
Money can buy bed but not rest and sleep
Money can buy medicines but not health
Money can buy wealth but not health
Money can buy clothes but not shame
Money can buy food but not hunger
Money can buy flowers but not freshness and fragrance
Money can buy land but not home (made of human hearts)
Money can buy honey but not sweetness
Money can buy some things but not everything
Money can buy luxuries but not happiness.
Money can buy costumes but not beauty
Money can buy idols but not devotion
Money can buy books but not wisdom and knowledge
Money can buy bed but not rest and sleep
Money can buy medicines but not health
Money can buy wealth but not health
Money can buy clothes but not shame
Money can buy food but not hunger
Money can buy flowers but not freshness and fragrance
Money can buy land but not home (made of human hearts)
Money can buy honey but not sweetness
Money can buy somethings but not everything
Money can buy luxuries but not happiness.
Money is the root of all evil,
Money was blessed by the devil,
Money, money can kill,
Money can cheat, steal…
Ask the disbarred lawyer,
What this sad creature
Can do: It can commit suicide,
Money, money can divide,
Money is not what you think it is,
Having money is not going to put you really at ease,
On the contrary, you’ll have fewer friends,
And more creatures showing their hands,
Claws, guns and deadly weapons.
Money will not send you to the heavens,
Money, money is dirty and evil;
Money is a sick devil.
Money and women don’t mix,
Just like alcohol and driving.
Having hush money is not a quick fix,
But a dangerous way to go down the ravine.
Money is not what you think it is,
Having money is not going to put you really at ease.
Money exists to be spent:
To buy food, clothes, and to pay the rent.
Be careful with money,
Money is not a faithful honey.
An introductory lecture
This morning we shall spend a few minutes
Upon the study of symbolism, which is basic
To the nature of money. I show you this nickel.
Icons and cryptograms are written all over
The nickel: one side shows a hunchbacked bison
Bending his head and curling his tail to accommodate
The circular nature of money. Over him arches
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, and, squinched in
Between that and his rump, E PLURIBUS UNUM,
A Roman reminiscence that appears to mean
An indeterminately large number of things
All of which are the same. Under the bison
A straight line giving him a ground to stand on
Reads FIVE CENTS. And on the other side of our nickel
There is the profile of a man with long hair
And a couple of feathers in the hair; we know
Somehow that he is an American Indian, and
He wears the number nineteen-thirty-six.
Right in front of his eyes the word LIBERTY, bent
To conform with the curve of the rim, appears
To be falling out of the sky Y first; the Indian
Keeps his eyes downcast and does not notice this;
To notice it, indeed, would be shortsighted of him.
So much for the iconography of one of our nickels,
Which is now becoming a rarity and something of
A collectors’ item: for as a matter of fact
There is almost nothing you can buy with a nickel,
The representative American Indian was destroyed
A hundred years or so ago, and his descendants’
Relations with liberty are maintained with reservations,
Or primitive concentration camps; while the bison,
Except for a few examples kept in cages,
Is now extinct. Something like that, I think,
Is what Keats must have meant in his celebrated
Ode on a Grecian Urn.
Notice, in conclusion,
A number of circumstances sometimes overlooked
Even by experts: (a) Indian and bison,
Confined to obverse and reverse of the coin,
Can never see each other; they are looking
In opposite directions, the bison past
The Indian’s feathers, the Indian past
The bison’s tail; (c) they are upside down
To one another; (d) the bison has a human face
Somewhat resembling that of Jupiter Ammon.
I hope that our studies today will have shown you
Something of the import of symbolism
With respect to the understanding of what is symbolized.
Money
Money
Money
Important
Useful
Necessary
Money
Money
Money
Wealthy
Middle
Poverty
Money
Money
Money
Save
Give
Spend
Money
Money
Borrow
Lend
Money
Money
Foe
Friend
Money
Money
Master
Slave
Money
Money
Satisfied
Crave
Money
Money
Laugh
Cry
Money
Money
Live
Die
Money
Money
Sick
Well
Money
Money
Heaven
Hell
Stolen by poverty
Let stolen by 'antipoverty'
Might of the mint is an effigy
Endorsed in life's kinetic journey
Rags to riches coiled in coinage
Birth to death in currency-appendage
Food, clothe, shelter hike
Varied labour-men when strike
Target is money-market
Goal is money-profit
Craze is gold locket
Racing in final syndromic silt
To be is to be knowledgeable
Enough is enough satiable
Fear is to fear avarice
Beware is beware of vice, malice
And
Don't we just opine of money a demon
Don't just opine of money either a daemon
Born in this country
We to deify money, Goddess Lakshmi
Bestower of wealth and morality
Money hard earned
Money to burn
Money flowing freely
Money held by the greedy
Neither good nor evil, a tool
Those who covet, it makes a fool
An incoming tide of green
Increase thur means
Never fear as it recedes
It will be back to cover your needs
People think that money is everything.
Well news flash for them money is not everything! !
Yeah buys you food, cars, houses, toys, and clothes, but it can't buy true family, and real friends.
Most important of all it can't buy true love.
So there for it is not everything.
When i think of mOnEy
i think of rich people
When i think of mOnEy
i think of it ''growing on trees''
When others think of mOnEy
they think of NOTHING OTHER!
When others think of mOnEy
they think their ''RICH DONT BOTHER THEM''
When i think of mOnEy
i ''DONT THINK ITS EVERYTHING''
MoNeY
ISNT EVERYTHING TO ME
WHEN I THINK ABOUT IT
BUT.............
(~~ITS NICE TO HAVE ONCE IN A LITTLE WHILE~~)
Money money money
Brighter than sunshine, sweeter than honey.
Money money money
It brings luxury & comfort it makes life funny.
Money money money
People comes to you if you have lot of money.
Money money money
People leave you alone if you don’t have money.
Money money money
Who uses it carefully they are very brainy.
Money money money
Whatever it may be, I love only man not money.
Greed
Need
Lie
Cry
Satisfaction
Attraction
Love
Laugh
(2008/4/6)
Money is precious money is power
Money is a devil cunning and evil
Source of war destruction of nations
Money causes hatred money unites
Money is lovely it attracts like a magnet
Cupboard love is given for money
Money is a master, it instructs we surrender
Money has rules we follow blindly
Cheating and stealing are done for money
Money gives power money gives respect
Money can earn you a stay in a coffin
Root of evil, source of happiness
Money is wonderful, money is Eden
Money is a murderer it kills like a cobra
Rejoice with money, cry for money
Money is a stinging bee, money is delicious
Money is sweet as sweet as honey
Once you lick it you’ll die for money.
Money is war, money is peace
Money’s path is deception, cheating and enmity
People kill and get killed for money.
Money is attractive, money glitters
Money does make one act like a dummy
Petrified can’t move, like Egyptian mummy.
Money and power are closely related
Money is power, power is money
Too much money  may mean power and misery.
When I had money, money, O!
I knew no joy till I went poor;
For many a false man as a friend
Came knocking all day at my door.
Then felt I like a child that holds
A trumpet that he must not blow
Because a man is dead; I dared
Not speak to let this false world know.
Much have I thought of life, and seen
How poor men’s hearts are ever light;
And how their wives do hum like bees
About their work from morn till night.
So, when I hear these poor ones laugh,
And see the rich ones coldly frown—
Poor men, think I, need not go up
So much as rich men should come down.
When I had money, money, O!
My many friends proved all untrue;
But now I have no money, O!
My friends are real, though very few.
Money Saved Is Money Earned
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
What is money?
They say
Money makes the world go around
And people crazy and unsound
It's nothing and everything as well
Full of wonders and full of fools
Makes all endlessly ponder and droll
Some have too much and some less
A dollar or a dime, our lives they rule
And it's true and it's true
Yet there goes a saying, that's also true
That money saved is money earned
The wisdom that carries truth and mind
It's a thing to be frugal
Being thrifty, prudent and economical
Not to be misunderstood with being parsimonious
That carries attitude miserly or ungenerous
Frugal are those
That suppresses instant gratification
Thereby making themselves efficient and wise
At the core of the principle lies
The wisdom of using less or storing what remains
And not even wasting anything less
Or else, to quote Confucius
'He who will not economize will have to agonize'
This is true for both individuals and businesses
Money talk's,
Money talk's,
You know it say's it all,
You got it in your mind,
That money hast to say alot about human term's,
Every word that is explained here told me,
That money hast talked in society,
The honey of Humanity,
In the status of money,
If your'e indigent,
Many men will neglect all that you have,
Even humiliate you,
Only because they have money,
They mistreat others,
Money hast talked alot about what people do everyday,
Money is root of all not good,
Even most virus is from money,
Getting drunk talk's all about money,
Forever and ever men really love money,
We need money,
But some are very greedy for money,
Money talk's alot about fables and false spirit's.
The village streets are dark and cold.
Most stay at home and watch T.V
Its not the place it used be
when coal was king in days of old.
When miners earned a princely wage.
The village pubs were thriving then,
those days will never come again.
Commuting now is all the rage.
The  many pubs  are all closed down
the shops have dwindled to a few.
There is so little we can do
We have shop in the next town.
But they are building everywhere.
New houses thrown up in a flash
For other folk who have the cash
The planners do not seem to care.
This valley is a beauty spot
where tacky houses spoil the view.
An old complaint forever new
I can complain. Why should I not.
I’m not against making progress.,
Sometimes a change is for the best
when it is made at our request.
It seems our choice grows ever less.
The speculators buy the land.
Pull down the pubs which they replace
with houses tightly packed in place.
The only thing they understand.
is how much profit they can make.
Their balance sheets must always show
how they can make their money grow.
They are in charge make no mistake..
Money talks
Put it to work
Watch your world spin & rock
Money talks
But when it fucks with you
Money sucks
Without money, we are in poverty
With money, you are my property
If you are very ugly, don’t worry
There is expensive plastic surgery
If you are one who is totally boring
Spend, spend, spend and stop worrying
Who says money can't buy you love
Who says money can't buy you friends
Who says money can't buy you fame
We all live and die the money game
Money talks
Hit the jackpot
Watch the media flock
Paparazzis, children, grown-ups
Chasing you from block to block
The previous known vagabond
People now no longer mock
You ceased being a laughing stock
Now they want a share of your buck
Ignoring money talk, is not that simple
Many have thrown away their principles
Listening to money talk
It is the master of love & hate
It is the master of a smile & a frown
It is the master of respect & disrespect
It’s the difference between a good & a bad friend
Money talks
If you listen to it
You become its slave
The only path it paves
Waits silently to crush you
With an evil gigantic wave
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
A paragraph from a book by - Washington Irving - The History of New York - about the fortunes of money, that I am presently reading. I hope it will share some wisdom.
' If we could get a peep at the tally of dame fortune, where, like a notable landlady, she regularly chalks up the debtor and creditor accounts of mankind, we should find that, upon the whole, good and evil are pretty nearly balanced in this world; and that though we may for a long while revel in the very lap pf prosperity, the time will at length come, when we must pay off the reckoning. Fortune, in fact, is a pestilent shrew, and withal a most inexorable creditor; for though she may indulge her favourites in long credits, and overwhelm them with her favours; yet sooner or later, she brings up her arrears, with the rigour of an experienced publican, and washes out her scores with their tears. 'SINCE', says good old Boetius in his consolations of philosophy, 'since no man can retain her at his pleasure, and since her flight is so deeply lamented, what are her favours but sure prognostications of approaching trouble and calamity.'
4/27/2009 POEWHIT
JESUS SAVES
Ten years ago, in Tennessee
I grew myself a money tree.
The money came in all-green leaves
my shepherd kept away the thieves.
My dog supplied his droppings, too
I added, also, chicken poo.
The tree grew big and even bigger
it was a huge imposing figure.
And from the top you could make out
Jack Daniel's place, on Hilltop Route.
I cared for, watered my big tree
it did allow me to be free.
And in the year thereafter it
had little ones, I said 'oh shit'.
Today I have a whole plantation
by far the largest in the nation.
I am the richest in the land
my life is great and never bland.
This shows what honest work can do
I wouldn't think it is for you.
One day a man came to my house with a seed.
I decided to buy it because of my greed.
The man said it would grow into a money tree.
When I told people, they said they're glad they're not as stupid as me.
The tree didn't grow and I cussed and hollered.
That seed cost me ten thousand dollars.
People say that my brain is as small as a pig's.
But a CAT scan showed that it's not even half that big.
Money you can't take with you when you die
So before you die I hope you decide
To whom you are going to live your money to
I hope that you are not going to spend all
That money on yourself
No man such rare parts hath, that he can swim,
If favour or occasion help not him.
no money to do anything with
its hard enough to get by
with out some riche kid walking by
they flant their three credit cards in your face
plus their 2005 mitibushi eclipse
yet they complain that they have no money
but yet their dad has another car for them
it all makes no sense when we people must
suffer and yet survive with little money but
the other half lives in riches
if some one is in help they will not help unless it
is there friend who actually doesnt need help
but for them who really cares
no money for us only those who can afford it but
no one notices us because we try to blend in anyway
These coins that jostle on my hand do own
No single image: each name here and date
Denoting in man's consciousness and state
New change. In some, the face is clearly known,—
In others marred. The badge of that old throne
Of Kings is on the obverse; or this sign
Which says, “I France am all—lo, I am mine!”
Or else the Eagle that dared soar alone.
Even as these coins, so are these lives and years
Mixed and bewildered; yet hath each of them
No less its part in what is come to be
For France. Empire, Republic, Monarchy,—
Each clamours or keeps silence in her name,
And lives within the pulse that now is hers.
peace..
love..
money..
what i feel the most? ! ..
what i love the most? ! ..
what i need the most? ! ..
sometimes i feel happiness..
sometimes i get lost..
_______________________________________ _______
*** your comments will be a fortune to me, thanks truly ***
A bad habit they form as a young girl or boy
To have power over others some people enjoy
With personal power some are not satisfied
Their desire for top job they don't try for to hide
They need more than personal power to be seen to succeed
It is all about money and all about greed
One might say they do have big egos to feed
The more money they have the more they seem to need
Power and money are siblings it does seem that way
And money speaks every language some are known to say
The non greedy and non power hungry people one has to admire
The lust for large sums of money or power over others they never desire
They are not the type for to put others down
Or wish to be known as the best in the town.
It is a fact that human beings cannot live without money
People go to work everyday because of money
The more money we have the greater the influence
The more influence we have the greater the control
The more control we have the greater the power
Therefore with lots of money, we acquire power
We classify some people as rich, affluent and prosperous
This is because they have lots and lots of money
By the way - what is this power conferred by money?
In other words - how powerful is money?
Several people agree that money is everything
Lack of money can lead to divorce
Labour unions will go on strike for money
Political campaign is doomed without money
Businesses close down when they have no money
Consultants sell their services for money
Without money we cannot acquire any property
In some countries, access to superior medical services
Is not possible if you do not have lots of money
Also in a number of societies, the caliber of education
You can have depends on how wealthy your parents are
To have money power is to have authority
Oh! Money, what are we going to do without you?
Many believe that money talks everywhere
Whoever has more money makes the loudest noise
The power conferred by money turn few people
To be labeled as the movers and shakers
Does this mean that the poor have less power?
Take a closer look at the society in general
The answer is everywhere and in all places
We see the super stars with all their
bling and fancy cars, with thier  hair
silky and long, most times not thier own
We watch in awe as thier money pile up
which is fine, but then their problems are
larger than ours
The red carpet they proudly walk, of foriegn
places they smoothly talk, exotic as it seems
it's only thier dreams, we have them too maybe
in a strange way, they have already come true
Anyone not in a designer's dress will surley
be described as a hot mess, The men dress in
the best, thier main objective is to impress
How can one be happy wiithout being wealthy?
good question, well start first with being grateful
for what you have, make yourself happy not so
mad, stop really, and smell some roses, do
something memoriable like Moses
We're blessed, to be alive it's time we know it
see you don't have to be on the 'A List' to fit
in honey, see it is possible to be
' Rich Without Money'
Copyright: 2005
Money, we seek in life to fulfil needs;
Most labour hard to gain some extra wealth;
Some even go on to do evil deeds,
And in the process, spoil their body's health.
Money evades some persons for quite long;
Some get it accidentally, by luck;
Some acquire it through a single song;
But happiness can't come to all by buck.
For, money can't give bliss for all on earth;
Money can't solve all problems in our life;
Neither can it ensure a divine berth;
Money can bring a man unwanted strife.
And yet, the human mind stays money-mad,
Forgetting Almighty God; Oh, how sad!
Money can get a person murdered but
It can’t ev’r bring back life that has once left;
Money can build a palace from a hut!
It can’t give widows, husbands, love bereft.
Money can give love-making hours and lust;
It cannot wipe the sin of adultery;
Money can make idols that go to dust,
But can’t wipe tears, stop wars, crimes, misery.
Money can make a man tell false witness;
It cannot stifle justice of our God;
Money can buy a harem to Caress,
But not the Word of God who is the Lord!
Money can buy most things on earth but ne’er
A place in Heaven, the least however!
What's the formula for success in life?
Hard-work- this answer, everyone agrees;
How to avoid ensuing problems, strife?
Alas! most people choose money with ease.
Money is not the problem-solver right;
Money is needed to some extent, yet;
Money in excess makes a man lose sight!
Money brings evils in its wake, I bet!
Life's challenges are something, we must face;
We cannot put the cart  before the horse!
Hard-labour and honesty are life's base;
Short-cuts to success, God will ne'er endorse.
But why do people run after money?
Like bees, you gather nectar, make honey!
Let money be thy servant, not Master;
So, put thy wealth in use for mankind's sake;
Let progress come for fellowmen, faster;
What profits come if genuine, thou may take.
The money-needs of life on earth are small;
Money begets money and vices too;
But money cannot solve our problems all;
Let  money  not cause mis- conduct in you.
What use is money kept as coins and notes?
Banks lend their money so that they may grow;
Money cannot purchase all honest votes;
For money's sake, hardships, we undergo.
How many pairs of shoes, your feet will need?
Let excess money try to others feed.
Where Pyramids and temple-wrecks are piled
Confusedly on camel-coloured sands,
And the mute Arab motionlessly stands,
Like some swart god who never wept or smiled,--
I picked up mummy relics of the wild
(And sea-shells once with clutching baby hands),
And felt a wafture from old Motherlands,
And all the morning wonder of a Child
To find Sphinx-money. So the Beduin calls
Small fossils of the waste. Nay, poet's gold;
'Twill give thee entrance to those rites of old,
When hundred-gated Thebes, with storied walls,
Gleamed o'er her Plain, and vast processions rolled
To Amon-Ra through Karnak's pillared halls.
The lust for power and money to corruption lead
And some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed
And big Corporations do not have a soul
The avarice that afflicts them their thinking control.
The distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair
And thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire
Oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day
Whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay.
To be born of poor parents is their only crime
And they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime
In refugee camps they are forced to reside
In a Land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed.
'Tis true power can be a corruptible thing
Of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing
Why laud people who have far more than enough
When millions are homeless and have to sleep rough.
The lust for power seems to be thriving of late
And only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate
Whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair
In a World where empathy and compassion are rare.
I dreamed I grew a money tree
outside in my yard.
My job was to care for it
and I worked very hard.
I saw that it was watered.
It grew so straight and tall
and when the money ripened
I picked it in the fall.
The flowers were green dollar bills,
the seeds inside were coins,
and others grew and glittered
where all the branches joined.
On windy days I stood below
and held a great big bucket.
Other days I climbed right up
to find one ripe and pluck it.
People say that money
doesn't really grow on trees.
I know. I only wish it did
just like in my dreams.
The story's told
Of long ago
About a statue
With a head of gold
And its breast
Did silver shine
And brassness
At lower spine
Now iron did make
The legs so strong
And at its base
Was all made wrong
For it was built
Of miry clay
And reinforced
With iron sway
It stood upon sand
Which did give way
When the base was hit
By a Stone that day
The great image
Built sixty high
Summed three sixes
From its front side
And through it was
Only six wide
It bare the mark
Of beastly pride
But the beast did crumble
And was blown away
Like shaft in the wind
Forever gone to stay
And that Stone hewn
By no man's hand
Became a Mountain
Forever to stand.
Exchange in greed the ungraceful signs. Thrust
The thick notes between green apple breasts.
Then the shadow of the devil descends,
The violent space cries and angel eyes,
Large and dark, retreat in innocence and in ice.
(Run sister run—the Bugga man comes!)
The violent space cries silently,
Like you cried wide years ago
In another space, speckled by the sun
And the leaves of a green plum tree,
And you were stung
By a red wasp and we flew home.
(Run sister run—the Bugga man comes!)
Well, hell, lil sis, wasps still sting.
You are all of seventeen and as alone now
In your pain as you were with the sting
On your brow.
Well, shit. lil sis, here we are:
You and I and this poem.
And what should I do? should I squat
In the dust and make strange markings on the ground?
Shall I chant a spell to drive the demon away?
(Run sister run—the Bugga man comes!)
In the beginning you were the Virgin Mary,
And you are the Virgin Mary now.
But somewhere between Nazareth and Bethlehem
You lost your name in the nameless void.
'O Mary don't you weep don't you moan'
O Mary shake your butt to the violent juke,
Absord the demon puke and watch the whites eyes pop,
(Run sister run—the Bugga man comes!)
And what do I do. I boil my tears in a twisted spoon
And dance like an angel on the point of a needle.
I sit counting syllables like Midas gold.
I am not bold. I cannot yet take hold of the demon
And lift his weight from you black belly,
So I grab the air and sing my song.
(But the air cannot stand my singing long.)
Throughout our rambles much we find;
The bee trees burst with honey;
Wild birds we tame of every kind,
At once they seem to be resign'd;
I know but one that lags behind,
There's nothing lags but money.
The woods afford us much supply,
The opossum, coon, and coney;
They all are tame and venture nigh,
Regardless of the public eye,
I know but one among them shy,
There's nothing shy but money.
And she lies in the bankrupt shade;
The cunning fox is funny;
When thus the public debts are paid,
Deceitful cash is not afraid,
Where funds are hid for private trade,
There's nothing paid but money.
Then let us roam the woods along,
And drive the coon and coney;
Our lead is good, our powder strong,
To shoot the pigeons as they throng,
But sing no more the idle song,
Nor prowl the chase for money.
'Tis in the power of money real fame is to be found
And money is always involved where corruption abound
And corruption and human greed to each other live nearby
And why some people are corrupt this could be the answer why
Some will tell you that money is their nearest and dearest friend
And it is because of money that many friendships are known to end
And many with lots of money seem to have a crave for more
This year they have made two million in profit next year they aim for four
The lust for paper currency to everyone does  not apply
But that money speaks every language is something that none can deny
Those with it are looked up to and those without it on are looked down
And who would wish for to be known as the pauper of the town
'Tis the lust for money that leads to corruption through greed
And those with plenty of it looked up to as those who in life succeed.
It seems as if he was thrown out of
The bar
He ran and knelt down on the side walk
The beggar
In front of the rich man who got out of his
Mercedes car
With his rough voice he begged money
For cigar
Proudly the man threw him
Some cash
On which the beggar walked on his knees
With a rush
Got the money and ran to a shop
In a flash
Bought a cigar, lit it and started to turn it
Into ash
He inhaled deep and smiled like
A star
Not knowing, the consequence
Nicotine tar
May2,2006
I’m delighted by the velocity of money as it whistles through the windows
of Lower East Side
Delighted by skyscrapers rising the old grungy apartments falling on
84th Street
Delighted by inflation that drives me out on the street
After all what good’s the family farm, why eat turkey by thousands every
Thanksgiving?
Why not have Star Wars? Why have the same old America?!?
George Washington wasn’t good enough! Tom Paine pain in the neck,
Whitman what a jerk!
I’m delighted by double digit interest rates in the Capitalist world
I always was a communist, now we’ll win
an usury makes the walls thinner, books thicker & dumber
Usury makes my poetry more valuable
my manuscripts worth their weight in useless gold -
Now everybody’s atheist like me, nothing’s sacred
buy and sell your grandmother, eat up old age homes,
Peddle babies on the street, pretty boys for sale on Times Square -
You can shoot heroin, I can sniff cocaine,
macho men can fite on the Nicaraguan border and get paid with paper!
The velocity’s what counts as the National Debt gets higher
Everybody running after the rising dollar
Crowds of joggers down broadway past City Hall on the way to the Fed
Nobody reads Dostoyevsky books so they’ll have to give a passing ear
to my fragmented ravings in between President’s speeches
Nothing’s happening but the collapse of the Economy
so I can go back to sleep till the landlord wins his eviction suit in court.
WARS BRED MONEY AND RICHNESS AND POVERTY
ALSO BLOOD OF HUMANE BLOOD HIM SELF
SO HUMANITY SEARCH ABOUT GLORY
ABOUT
BLOOD
HUMANITY ALL 'AND ALL CAUSE OF WARS '
HAVE NOT STOCK OF SONGS
BUT IF THERE`S  MELODIOUS YEARS
ARE WE NEED NEW MIDDLE AGES
YES WHY NOT?
AND I KNOW NOTHING
WAEL MOREICHEH
call it the greenhouse effect or whatever
but it just doesn't rain like it used to.
I particularly remember the rains of the
depression era.
there wasn't any money but there was
plenty of rain.
it wouldn't rain for just a night or
a day,
it would RAIN for 7 days and 7
nights
and in Los Angeles the storm drains
weren't built to carry off taht much
water
and the rain came down THICK and
MEAN and
STEADY
and you HEARD it banging against
the roofs and into the ground
waterfalls of it came down
from roofs
and there was HAIL
big ROCKS OF ICE
bombing
exploding smashing into things
and the rain
just wouldn't
STOP
and all the roofs leaked-
dishpans,
cooking pots
were placed all about;
they dripped loudly
and had to be emptied
again and
again.
the rain came up over the street curbings,
across the lawns, climbed up the steps and
entered the houses.
there were mops and bathroom towels,
and the rain often came up through the
toilets:bubbling, brown, crazy,whirling,
and all the old cars stood in the streets,
cars that had problems starting on a
sunny day,
and the jobless men stood
looking out the windows
at the old machines dying
like living things out there.
the jobless men,
failures in a failing time
were imprisoned in their houses with their
wives and children
and their
pets.
the pets refused to go out
and left their waste in
strange places.
the jobless men went mad
confined with
their once beautiful wives.
there were terrible arguments
as notices of foreclosure
fell into the mailbox.
rain and hail, cans of beans,
bread without butter; fried
eggs, boiled eggs, poached
eggs; peanut butter
sandwiches, and an invisible
chicken in every pot.
my father, never a good man
at best, beat my mother
when it rained
as I threw myself
between them,
the legs, the knees, the
screams
until they
seperated.
'I'll kill you,' I screamed
at him. 'You hit her again
and I'll kill you! '
'Get that son-of-a-bitching
kid out of here! '
'no, Henry, you stay with
your mother! '
all the households were under
seige but I believe that ours
held more terror than the
average.
and at night
as we attempted to sleep
the rains still came down
and it was in bed
in the dark
watching the moon against
the scarred window
so bravely
holding out
most of the rain,
I thought of Noah and the
Ark
and I thought, it has come
again.
we all thought
that.
and then, at once, it would
stop.
and it always seemed to
stop
around 5 or 6 a.m.,
peaceful then,
but not an exact silence
because things continued to
drip
drip
drip
and there was no smog then
and by 8 a.m.
there was a
blazing yellow sunlight,
Van Gogh yellow-
crazy, blinding!
and then
the roof drains
relieved of the rush of
water
began to expand in the warmth:
PANG! PANG! PANG!
and everybody got up and looked outside
and there were all the lawns
still soaked
greener than green will ever
be
and there were birds
on the lawn
CHIRPING like mad,
they hadn't eaten decently
for 7 days and 7 nights
and they were weary of
berries
and
they waited as the worms
rose to the top,
half drowned worms.
the birds plucked them
up
and gobbled them
down; there were
blackbirds and sparrows.
the blackbirds tried to
drive the sparrows off
but the sparrows,
maddened with hunger,
smaller and quicker,
got their
due.
the men stood on their porches
smoking cigarettes,
now knowing
they'd have to go out
there
to look for that job
that probably wasn't
there, to start that car
that probably wouldn't
start.
and the once beautiful
wives
stood in their bathrooms
combing their hair,
applying makeup,
trying to put their world back
together again,
trying to forget that
awful sadness that
gripped them,
wondering what they could
fix for
breakfast.
and on the radio
we were told that
school was now
open.
and
soon
there I was
on the way to school,
massive puddles in the
street,
the sun like a new
world,
my parents back in that
house,
I arrived at my classroom
on time.
Mrs. Sorenson greeted us
with, 'we won't have our
usual recess, the grounds
are too wet.'
'AW! ' most of the boys
went.
'but we are going to do
something special at
recess,' she went on,
'and it will be
fun! '
well, we all wondered
what that would
be
and the two hour wait
seemed a long time
as Mrs.Sorenson
went about
teaching her
lessons.
I looked at the little
girls, they looked so
pretty and clean and
alert,
they sat still and
straight
and their hair was
beautiful
in the California
sunshine.
the the recess bells rang
and we all waited for the
fun.
then Mrs. Sorenson told us:
'now, what we are going to
do is we are going to tell
each other what we did
during the rainstorm!
we'll begin in the front row
and go right around!
now, Michael, you're first! ...'
well, we all began to tell
our stories, Michael began
and it went on and on,
and soon we realized that
we were all lying, not
exactly lying but mostly
lying and some of the boys
began to snicker and some
of the girls began to give
them dirty looks and
Mrs.Sorenson said,
'all right! I demand a
modicum of silence
here!
I am interested in what
you did
during the rainstorm
even if you
aren't! '
so we had to tell our
stories and they were
stories.
one girl said that
when the rainbow first
came
she saw God's face
at the end of it.
only she didn't say which end.
one boy said he stuck
his fishing pole
out the window
and caught a little
fish
and fed it to his
cat.
almost everybody told
a lie.
the truth was just
too awful and
embarassing to tell.
then the bell rang
and recess was
over.
'thank you,' said Mrs.
Sorenson, 'that was very
nice.
and tomorrow the grounds
will be dry
and we will put them
to use
again.'
most of the boys
cheered
and the little girls
sat very straight and
still,
looking so pretty and
clean and
alert,
their hair beautiful in a sunshine that
the world might never see
again.
and
Some one else will own your property when you are dead and gone
The day you die the World won't stop life it will carry on
You've made it big, you've reached the top, you're plutocratic kind
But wealthy guy you too must die and leave your wealth behind.
You came out of your mother free of guilt and evil sin
But now you're just a money hoarder like all other greedy men,
Your dreams of wealth have all come true you are now a millionaire
But moneyed man you too will die as sure as cows wear hair.
There's nothing wrong with money without money man can't live
But in a man there must be what is known as take and give
And just like all other greedy men you never give but take
And the more money you accumulate the more you want to make.
Wealthy man don't hoard your money, don't be scared to spend a pound
Or someone else will spend it for you when your bones rest underground
Everybody hates a miser, no one loves a greedy soul
And you too will be forgotten when you're placed in earthy hole.
Money we all know is a medium of exchange
Buyers and sellers relate to each other through money
The question here is – what is the value of money?
Few say money is the root of all evil
Many say money is the root of prosperity
And how valuable is money
Almost everything is measured by money
People go to work everyday because of money
Wealth of individuals is measured by money
All purchases and transactions are made by money
Every country has a name for its own money
The importance of some countries
In based on the value of their money
What is the value of money?
The rise and fall of foreign exchange
Is used to measure the value of money
Success to many is also measured by money
Corporate positions are measured by money
There are some people who marry for money
What is the value of money?
To many, money is everything
You cannot get many things done without money
Many have pondered and contemplated to ask
Can human beings live without money?
Then, how shall we determine and decide
The prices of individuals and materials
Differences between the rich and the poor
Are calculated in monetary terms
The power bestowed by money
Seems bigger than imagined
Wearing worry about money like a hair shirt
I lie down in my bed and wrestle with my angel.
My bank-manager could not sanction my continuance for another day
But life itself wakes me each morning, and love
Urges me to give although I have no money
In the bank at this moment, and ought properly
To cease to exist in a world where poverty
Is a shameful and ridiculous offence.
Having no one to advise me, I open the Bible
And shut my eyes and put my finger on a text
And read that the widow with the young son
Must give first to the prophetic genius
From the little there is in the bin of flour and the cruse of oil.
long walk at night
the breeze freezes my spirit
the moon warms it up
pulling at my poetic soul
the crickets sing their poems to the night
a million other insects contribute their share
to loosen up the night
for lovers, husbands and wives
while a tide of words too
creeps in all directions in my mental sphere
saturates the poetic bar of the intellect
waiting to be strummed into verses
the rhythm swims along with them
as i write out verse by verse
the moon my friend shares its light
the night wind inspires
lovelorn stars wave all the way
a million light years away
heralding the birth of a song
sparkling, twinkling
guided by intricate orchestration of the night
before gracing the written page
long walk in the night
even the insects with the lamps
start to lend me their lights
between the twinke of the stars
they dance, sing, beat out a dance
Look at the moon
Shining so bright
Look at the sun
It’s such a sight
Look at the river
Flowing so fast
I wonder, how long
These three will last
240
Ah, Moon—and Star!
You are very far—
But were no one
Farther than you—
Do you think I'd stop
For a Firmament—
Or a Cubit—or so?
I could borrow a Bonnet
Of the Lark—
And a Chamois' Silver Boot—
And a stirrup of an Antelope—
And be with you—Tonight!
But, Moon, and Star,
Though you're very far—
There is one—farther than you—
He—is more than a firmament—from Me—
So I can never go!
Written in July, in an arbour
Thou silver deity of secret night,
Direct my footsteps through the woodland shade;
Thou conscious witness of unknown delight,
The Lover's guardian, and the Muse's aid!
By thy pale beams I solitary rove,
To thee my tender grief confide;
Serenely sweet you gild the silent grove,
My friend, my goddess, and my guide.
E'en thee, fair queen, from thy amazing height,
The charms of young Endymion drew;
Veil'd with the mantle of concealing night;
With all thy greatness and thy coldness too.
Amongst the flowers I
am alone with my pot of wine
drinking by myself; then lifting
my cup I asked the moon
to drink with me, its reflection
and mine in the wine cup, just
the three of us; then I sigh
for the moon cannot drink,
and my shadow goes emptily along
with me never saying a word;
with no other friends here, I can
but use these two for company;
in the time of happiness, I
too must be happy with all
around me; I sit and sing
and it is as if the moon
accompanies me; then if I
dance, it is my shadow that
dances along with me; while
still not drunk, I am glad
to make the moon and my shadow
into friends, but then when
I have drunk too much, we
all part; yet these are
friends I can always count on
these who have no emotion
whatsoever; I hope that one day
we three will meet again,
deep in the Milky Way.
Long walks at night--
that's what good for the soul:
peeking into windows
watching tired housewives
trying to fight off
their beer-maddened husbands.
There stood a Poplar, tall and straight;
The fair, round Moon, uprisen late,
Made the long shadow on the grass
A ghostly bridge ’twixt heaven and me.
But May, with slumbrous nights, must pass;
And blustering winds will strip the tree.
And I’ve no magic to express
The moment of that loveliness;
So from these words you’ll never guess
The stars and lilies I could see.
Now as Heaven is my Lot, they're the Pests of the Nation!
Wherever they can come
With clankum and blankum
'Tis all Botheration, & Hell & Damnation,
With fun, jeering
Conjuring
Sky-staring,
Loungerin g,
And still to the tune of Transmogrification--
Those muttering
Spluttering
Ventriloquogusty
P oets
With no Hats
Or Hats that are rusty.
They're my Torment and Curse
And harass me worse
And bait me and bay me, far sorer I vow
Than the Screech of the Owl
Or the witch-wolf's long howl,
Or sheep-killing Butcher-dog's inward Bow wow
For me they all spite--an unfortunate Wight.
And the very first moment that I came to Light
A Rascal call'd Voss the more to his scandal,
Turn'd me into a sickle with never a handle.
A Night or two after a worse Rogue there came,
The head of the Gang, one Wordsworth by name--
`Ho! What's in the wind?' 'Tis the voice of a Wizzard!
I saw him look at me most terribly blue !
He was hunting for witch-rhymes from great A to Izzard,
And soon as he'd found them made no more ado
But chang'd me at once to a little Canoe.
From this strange Enchantment uncharm'd by degrees
I began to take courage & hop'd for some Ease,
When one Coleridge, a Raff of the self-same Banditti
Past by--& intending no doubt to be witty,
Because I'd th' ill-fortune his taste to displease,
He turn'd up his nose,
And in pitiful Prose
Made me into the half of a small Cheshire Cheese.
Well, a night or two past--it was wind, rain & hail--
And I ventur'd abroad in a thick Cloak & veil--
But the very first Evening he saw me again
The last mentioned Ruffian popp'd out of his Den--
I was resting a moment on the bare edge of Naddle
I fancy the sight of me turn'd his Brains addle--
For what was I now?
A complete Barley-mow
And when I climb'd higher he made a long leg,
And chang'd me at once to an Ostrich's Egg--
But now Heaven be praised in contempt of the Loon,
I am I myself I, the jolly full Moon.
Yet my heart is still fluttering--
For I heard the Rogue muttering--
He was hulking and skulking at the skirt of a Wood
When lightly & brightly on tip-toe I stood
On the long level Line of a motionless Cloud
And ho! what a Skittle-ground! quoth he aloud
And wish'd from his heart nine Nine-pins to see
In brightness & size just proportion'd to me.
So I fear'd from my soul,
That he'd make me a Bowl,
But in spite of his spite
This was more than his might
And still Heaven be prais'd! in contempt of the Loon
I am I myself I, the jolly full Moon.
translated by Will Kirkland
The moon came into the forge
in her bustle of flowering nard.
The little boy stares at her, stares.
The boy is staring hard.
In the shaken air
the moon moves her amrs,
and shows lubricious and pure,
her breasts of hard tin.
"Moon, moon, moon, run!
If the gypsies come,
they will use your heart
to make white necklaces and rings."
"Let me dance, my little one.
When the gypsies come,
they'll find you on the anvil
with your lively eyes closed tight.
"Moon, moon, moon, run!
I can feelheir horses come."
"Let me be, my little one,
don't step on me, all starched and white!"
Closer comes the the horseman,
drumming on the plain.
The boy is in the forge;
his eyes are closed.
Through the olive grove
come the gypsies, dream and bronze,
their heads held high,
their hooded eyes.
Oh, how the night owl calls,
calling, calling from its tree!
The moon is climbing through the sky
with the child by the hand.
They are crying in the forge,
all the gypsies, shouting, crying.
The air is veiwing all, views all.
The air is at the viewing.
[Written to the Most Beautiful Woman in the World]
M< Sweetheart is the TRUTH BEYOND THE MOON,
And never have I been in love with Woman,
Always aspiring to be set in tune
With one who is invisible, inhuman.
O laughing girl, cold TRUTH has stepped between,
Spoiling the fevers of your virgin face:
Making your shining eyes but lead and clay,
Mocking your brilliant brain and lady's grace.
TRUTH haunted me the day I wooed and lost,
The day I wooed and won, or wooed in play:
Tho' you were Juliet or Rosalind,
Thus shall it be, forever and a day.
I doubt my vows, tho' sworn on my own blood,
Tho' I draw toward you weeping, soul to soul,
I have a lonely goal beyond the moon;
Ay, beyond Heaven and Hell, I have a goal!
BLESSED be this place,
More blessed still this tower;
A bloody, arrogant power
Rose out of the race
Uttering, mastering it,
Rose like these walls from these
Storm-beaten cottages --
In mockery I have set
A powerful emblem up,
And sing it rhyme upon rhyme
In mockery of a time
HaIf dead at the top.
Alexandria's was a beacon tower, and Babylon's
An image of the moving heavens, a log-book of the
sun's journey and the moon's;
And Shelley had his towers, thought's crowned powers
he called them once.
I declare this tower is my symbol; I declare
This winding, gyring, spiring treadmill of a stair is my
ancestral stair;
That Goldsmith and the Dean, Berkeley and Burke
have travelled there.
Swift beating on his breast in sibylline frenzy blind
Because the heart in his blood-sodden breast had
dragged him down into mankind,
Goldsmith deliberately sipping at the honey-pot of his
mind,
And haughtier-headed Burke that proved the State a
tree,
That this unconquerable labyrinth of the birds, cen-
tury after century,
Cast but dead leaves to mathematical equality;
And God-appointed Berkeley that proved all things a
dream,
That this pragmatical, preposterous pig of a world, its
farrow that so solid seem,
Must vanish on the instant if the mind but change its
theme;
i{Saeva Indignatio} and the labourer's hire,
The strength that gives our blood and state magnani-
mity of its own desire;
Everything that is not God consumed with intellectual
fire.
III
The purity of the unclouded moon
Has flung its atrowy shaft upon the floor.
Seven centuries have passed and it is pure,
The blood of innocence has left no stain.
There, on blood-saturated ground, have stood
Soldier, assassin, executioner.
Whether for daily pittance or in blind fear
Or out of abstract hatred, and shed blood,
But could not cast a single jet thereon.
Odour of blood on the ancestral stair!
And we that have shed none must gather there
And clamour in drunken frenzy for the moon.
IV
Upon the dusty, glittering windows cling,
And seem to cling upon the moonlit skies,
Tortoiseshell butterflies, peacock butterflies,
A couple of night-moths are on the wing.
Is every modern nation like the tower,
Half dead at the top? No matter what I said,
For wisdom is the property of the dead,
A something incompatible with life; and power,
Like everything that has the stain of blood,
A property of the living; but no stain
Can come upon the visage of the moon
When it has looked in glory from a cloud.
Blossoming from the rock
A soul of a desperate lock
Becomes one with the blue moon
Hues of blue and gray
A due of death today
A blue moon rises in the west
It seemed so long ago
When the moon was so-so
And never went to the side of the blue
Now life is happening
And flowers are dying
The moon so blue is in the middle of the night sky
A love is a death
With a beginning and end
Just like the blue moon
With the beginning of a new day
The moon is hidden
And a new life is born
Unlike the moon of blue
Copyright 2006 Dustin Bennefield
Yellow moon peeps at me
Behind the shadows of the night.
Rises slow among the leaves,
Spreading eerie yellow light.
The oval face stares back at mine,
Screams silently, “ Go, leave! ”
I need to go, to go somewhere,
Somewhere I can breathe.
I wonder if that Breathing Place,
Is somewhere I can go.
Is it for those who wander there?
As well as those who know?
I think this Breathing Place must be,
A field of yellow grass.
An opaque sky, reaches out,
And steals from me, my past.
Or could it be a mossy rock,
By crystal mountain stream.
Trailing bare toes in the clear blue,
Where I seem a natural queen.
This rest, this rest, this peace, this bliss,
Is found in the Breathing Place.
But where is it? Is there room for me?
In that Breathing Place?
As the yellow moon finally,
Tops the trees,
I give a wishful sigh,
And it melts with the breeze.
I turn around,
Only to face my life,
In the house,
Those big bright lights.
And so continues,
My normal life,
Without a Breathing Place.
The child's wonder
At the old moon
Comes back nightly.
She points her finger
To the far silent yellow thing
Shining through the branches
Filtering on the leaves a golden sand,
Crying with her little tongue, “See the moon!”
And in her bed fading to sleep
With babblings of the moon on her little mouth.
My tears are like the quiet drift
Of petals from some magic rose;
And all my grief flows from the rift
Of unremembered skies and snows.
I think, that if I touched the earth,
It would crumble;
It is so sad and beautiful,
So tremulously like a dream.
The dark moon is rising
No silver left to see
The crone has awakened
Her power flows in me
The dark storm is coming
The rain pouring down
The thunder raises power
As lightening takes ground
The dark Queen is walking
Her whispers call to me
Ancient wisdom flowing
Circling energies flow free
The dark night is waiting
Its lure a sweet bane
Stepped through my shadow
And I am forever changed
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
Face of the spring moon--
about twelve years old,
I'd say.
Translated by Robert Hass
Moon are
swimming
clouds....
Clouds shado
clous the
Moon...
and open
the moon...
Moon was
Happly swimming...
15 days
full  into black
15 days black
In to full moon...
Moon was beauty
of the sky...
sky was not
beauty for
Moon....
Around the stars
are beauty for
Moon....for moon...! !
Art thou pale for weariness
Of climbing Heaven, and gazing on the earth,
Wandering companionless
Among the stars that have a different birth,--
And ever changing, like a joyless eye
That finds no object worth its constancy?
PARNELL'S FUNERAL
UNDER the Great Comedian's tomb the crowd.
A bundle of tempestuous cloud is blown
About the sky; where that is clear of cloud
Brightness remains; a brighter star shoots down;
What shudders run through all that animal blood?
What is this sacrifice? Can someone there
Recall the Cretan barb that pierced a star?
Rich foliage that the starlight glittered through,
A frenzied crowd, and where the branches sprang
A beautiful seated boy; a sacred bow;
A woman, and an arrow on a string;
A pierced boy, image of a star laid low.
That woman, the Great Mother imaging,
Cut out his heart.  Some master of design
Stamped boy and tree upon Sicilian coin.
An age is the reversal of an age:
When strangers murdered Emmet, Fitzgerald, Tone,
We lived like men that watch a painted stage.
What matter for the scene, the scene once gone:
It had not touched our lives.  But popular rage,
i{Hysterica passio} dragged this quarry down.
None shared our guilt; nor did we play a part
Upon a painted stage when we devoured his heart.
Come, fix upon me that accusing eye.
I thirst for accusation.  All that was sung.
All that was said in Ireland is a lie
Bred out of the c-ontagion of the throng,
Saving the rhyme rats hear before they die.
Leave nothing but the nothingS that belong
To this bare soul, let all men judge that can
Whether it be an animal or a man.
The rest I pass, one sentence I unsay.
Had de Valera eaten parnell's heart
No loose-lipped demagogue had won the day.
No civil rancour torn the land apart.
Had Cosgrave eaten parnell's heart, the land's
Imagination had been satisfied,
Or lacking that, government in such hands.
O'Higgins its sole statesman had not died.
Had even O'Duffy -- but I name no more --
Their school a crowd, his master solitude;
Through Jonathan Swift's clark grove he passed, and there
plucked bitter wisdom that enriched his blood.
It's said the moon has power over man -
It governs our body mechanisms,
Rising and falling biorhythms,
Lunar months during pregnancy,
And it plays with our minds:
The full moon is captivating -
Rising as a ball of orange light in the fall,
Blazing brilliant white on a winter night
Enhancing the stars in their midnight glory
And bathing the earth below in stark half-light:
It mesmerizes lovers and dreamers,
Promises miracles to those who pray,
Agitates the mentally unstable mind,
Inspires the poet to creat beautiful words,
And interrupts our sleep with its magical glow;
It beckons us to exlore its mysteries -
A lucky few have walked its surface
Leaving footprints for future explorers to follow,
Always it appears as a beacon of steadfastness,
An anchor that tethers this unstable planet.
A beautiful sight on a black onyx night.
Above the tower -- a lone, twice-sized moon.
On the cold river passing night-filled homes,
It scatters restless gold across the waves.
On mats, it shines richer than silken gauze.
Empty peaks, silence: among sparse stars,
Not yet flawed, it drifts. Pine and cinnamon
Spreading in my old garden . . . All light,
All ten thousand miles at once in its light!
When I was a boy I called the moon a
white plate of jade, sometimes it looked
like a great mirror hanging in the sky,
first came the two legs of the fairy
and the cassia tree, but for whom the rabbit
kept on pounding medical herbs, I
just could not guess. Now the moon is being
swallowed by the toad and the light
flickers out leaving darkness all around;
I hear that when nine of the burning suns out
of the ten were ordered to be shot down by
the Emperor Yao, all has since been quiet
and peaceful both for heaven and man,
but this eating up of the moon is for me
a truly ugly scene filling me with forebodings
wondering what will come out of it.
Harvest moon--
called at his house,
he was digging potatoes.
Translated by Robert Hass
After dark
Near the South Dakota border,
The moon is out hunting, everywhere,
Delivering fire,
And walking down hallways
Of a diamond.
Behind a tree,
It ights on the ruins
Of a white city
Frost, frost.
Where are they gone
Who lived there?
Bundled away under wings
And dark faces.
I am sick
Of it, and I go on
Living, alone, alone,
Past the charred silos, past the hidden graves
Of Chippewas and Norwegians.
This cold winter
Moon spills the inhuman fire
Of jewels
Into my hands.
Dead riches, dead hands, the moon
Darkens,
And I am lost in the beautiful white ruins
Of America.
I watched the Moon around the House
Until upon a Pane --
She stopped -- a Traveller's privilege -- for Rest --
And there upon
I gazed -- as at a stranger --
The Lady in the Town
Doth think no incivility
To lift her Glass -- upon --
But never Stranger justified
The Curiosity
Like Mine -- for not a Foot -- nor Hand --
Nor Formula -- had she --
But like a Head -- a Guillotine
Slid carelessly away --
Did independent, Amber --
Sustain her in the sky --
Or like a Stemless Flower --
Upheld in rolling Air
By finer Gravitations --
Than bind Philosopher --
No Hunger -- had she -- nor an Inn --
Her Toilette -- to suffice --
Nor Avocation nor Concern
for little Mysteries
As harass us -- like Life -- and Death --
And Afterwards -- or Nay --
But seemed engrossed to Absolute --
With shining -- and the Sky --
The privilege to scrutinize
Was scarce upon my Eyes
When, with a Silver practise --
She vaulted out of Gaze --
And next -- I met her on a Cloud --
Myself too far below
To follow her superior Road --
Or its advantage -- Blue --
Mother, the moon I want as my toy.
I will roll on the floor,
Not come to your lap,
Nor have my hair-braid combed.
No longer will I be your child
I will only be Nand baba's boy.
Listen son, come to me
There's a secret from bal we can hide.
Hiding her smile, Yasoda said,
I'll give you a brand new bride.
Quick then, Mother, I swear by you
A wedding is what I'd like.
2 a.m.
December, and still no mon
rising from the river.
My mother
home from the beer garden
stands before the open closet
her hands still burning.
She smooths the fur collar,
the scarf, opens the gloves
crumpled like letters.
Nothing is lost
she says to the darkness, nothing.
The moon finally above the town,
The breathless stacks,
the coal clumps,
the quiet cars
whitened at last.
Her small round hand whitens,
the hand a stranger held
and released
while the Polish music wheezed.
I'm drunk, she says,
and knows she's not. In her chair
undoing brassiere and garters
she sighs
and waits for the need
to move.
The moon descends
in a spasm of silver
tearing the screen door,
the eyes of fire
drown in the still river,
and she's herself.
The little jewels
on cheek and chin
darken and go out,
and in darkness
nothing falls
staining her lap.
Listening to the moon,
gazing at the croaking of frogs
in a field of ripe rice.
Translated by Robert Hass
LOOK down, fair moon, and bathe this scene;
Pour softly down night's nimbus floods, on faces ghastly, swollen,
purple;
On the dead, on their backs, with their arms toss'd wide,
Pour down your unstinted nimbus, sacred moon.
You are the moon, dear love, and I the sea:
The tide of hope swells high within my breast,
And hides the rough dark rocks of life’s unrest
When your fond eyes smile near in perigee.
But when that loving face is turned from me,
Low falls the tide, and the grim rocks appear,
And earth’s dim coast-line seems a thing to fear.
You are the moon, dear one, and I the sea.
When the moon was full they came to the water.
some with pitchforks, some with rakes,
some with sieves and ladles,
and one with a silver cup.
And they fished til a traveler passed them and said,
"Fools,
to catch the moon you must let your women
spread their hair on the water --
even the wily moon will leap to that bobbing
net of shimmering threads,
gasp and flop till its silver scales
lie black and still at your feet."
And they fished with the hair of their women
till a traveler passed them and said,
"Fools,
do you think the moon is caught lightly,
with glitter and silk threads?
You must cut out your hearts and bait your hooks
with those dark animals;
what matter you lose your hearts to reel in your dream?"
And they fished with their tight, hot hearts
till a traveler passed them and said,
"Fools,
what good is the moon to a heartless man?
Put back your hearts and get on your knees
and drink as you never have,
until your throats are coated with silver
and your voices ring like bells."
And they fished with their lips and tongues
until the water was gone
and the moon had slipped away
in the soft, bottomless mud.
Two past midnight
a very bright light awakened me.
Seeing this luminous light,
I walked towards my picture window to see…
and this is what I saw...
MOON FUSION
The full moon shines brightly
Through the dark and hazy cloud
Enchanting rays rest softly
Among the trees and the ground
Serene Scene Sweet illusion awaken
Of you and me under the moonlight
Of our souls coming together as one
A most radiant shadow of the night
I
The Moon is like a ping-pong ball;
I lean against the orchard wall,
And see it soar into the void,
A silky sphere of celluloid.
Then fairy fire enkindles it,
Like gossamer by taper lit,
Until it glows above the trees
As mellow as a Cheddar cheese.
And up and up I watch it press
Into appalling loneliness;
Like realms of ice without a stain,
A corpse Moon come to life again.
Ruthless it drowns a sturdy star
That seeks its regal way to bar;
Seeming with conscious power to grow,
And sweeter, purer, gladder glow.
Dreaming serenely up the sky
Until exultantly on high,
It shimmers with superb delight,
The silver navel of the night.
II
I have a compact to commune
A monthly midnight with the Moon;
Into its face I stare and stare,
And find sweet understanding there.
As quiet as a toad I sit
And tell my tale of days to it;
The tessellated yarn I've spun
In thirty spells of star and sun.
And the Moon listens pensively,
As placid as a lamb to me;
Until I think there's just us two
In silver world of mist and dew.
In all of spangled space, but I
To stare moon-struck into the sky;
Of billion beings I alone
To praise the Moon as still as stone.
And seal a bond between us two,
Closer than mortal ever knew;
For as mute masses I intone
The Moon is mine and mine alone.
III
To know the Moon as few men may,
One must be just a little fey;
And for our friendship's sake I'm glad
That I am just a trifle mad.
And one with all the wild, wise things,
The furtive folk of fur and wings,
That hold the Moon within their eyes,
And make it nightly sacrifice.
O I will watch the maiden Moon
Dance on the sea with silver shoon;
But with the Queen Moon I will keep
My tryst when all the world's asleep.
As I have kept by land and sea
That tryst for half a century;
Entranced in sibylline suspense
Beyond a world of common-sense.
Until one night the Moon alone
Will look upon a graven stone. . . .
I wonder will it miss me then,
Its lover more than other men?
Or will my wistful ghost be there,
Down ages dim to stare and stare,
On silver nights without a stir--
The Moon's Eternal Worshipper?
moon, moon, crazy moon
natural moon
torn apart and snoozing moon;
lovely moon, romantic moon
poor poor moon
the romance
plucked out of its drab surface;
moon moon going wild
moon moon running away
from the earth -
O moon, why do you run away from the earth?
does earth touch you in the wrong places
and you've got no Body
to which one could lodge
a complaint about sexual harassment? ?
ah, moon moon, temperamental moon
dark moon
glowing moon;
sexy moon
and old-woman hag of a moon;
moon moon with the best views of the earth
moon moon moon
puts me to sleep and wakes me up
in the middle of nights;
and one day we'll sleep in the moon
and produce babies there
and we'll have the first moon-ish boys and girls
and moon-ly families;
but meanwhile
moon moon driving fanatics
and inspiring love and romance and myths
moon moon eerie moon
moon moon that presides over love and horrors
and evil and good
and naked witches dancing in moonlit groves;
pooor moon moon the earth moon
not as interesting and dramatic as other moons;
don't get too friendly and dropp in -
oh, never dropp in, no one invited you
silly mooonn, no no, you're not invited home to earth
moon moon cheese moon eaten by mice;
but still our dear moon darling moon
moon mooon
our very own earth's moon
as we moo moo like cows
moo moo moo mooo
at our own moon moon moon
A bright moon rising above Tian Shan Mountain,
Lost in a vast ocean of clouds.
The long wind, across thousands upon thousands of miles,
Blows past the Jade-gate Pass.
The army of Han has gone down the Baiteng Road,
As the barbarian hordes probe at Qinghai Bay.
It is known that from the battlefield
Few ever live to return.
Men at Garrison look on the border scene,
Home thoughts deepen sorrow on their faces.
In the towered chambers tonight,
Ceaseless are the women's sighs.
Face of the skies
preside
over our wonder.
Fluorescent
truant of heaven
draw us under.
Silver, circular corpse
your decease
infects us with unendurable ease,
touching nerve-terminals
to thermal icicles
Coercive as coma, frail as bloom
innuendoes of your inverse dawn
suffuse the self;
our every corpuscle become an elf.
Mrs Moon
sitting up in the sky
little old lady
rock-a-bye
with a ball of fading light
and silvery needles
knitting the night
PALE GODDESS of the witching hour;
Blest Contemplation's placid friend;
Oft in my solitary bow'r,
I mark thy lucid beam
From thy crystal car descend,
Whitening the spangled heath, and limpid sapphire stream.
And oft, amidst the shades of night
I court thy undulating light;
When Fairies dance around the verdant ring,
Or frisk beside the bubbling spring,
When the thoughtless SHEPHERD'S song
Echoes thro' the silent air,
As he pens his fleecy care,
Or plods with saunt'ring gait, the dewy meads along.
CHASTE ORB! as thro' the vaulted sky
Feath'ry clouds transparent sail;
When thy languid, weeping eye,
Sheds its soft tears upon the painted vale;
As I ponder o'er the floods,
Or tread with listless step, th'embow'ring woods,
O, let thy transitory beam,
Soothe my sad mind, with FANCY'S aëry dream.
Wrapt in REFLECTION, let me trace
O'er the vast ethereal space,
Stars, whose twinkling fires illume
Dark-brow'd NIGHT'S obtrusive gloom;
Where across the concave wide;
Flaming METEORS swiftly glide;
Or along the milky way,
Vapours shoot a silvery ray;
And as I mark, thy faint reclining head,
Sinking on Ocean's pearly bed;
Let REASON tell my soul, thus all things fade.
The Seasons change, the "garish SUN"
When Day's burning car hath run
Its fiery course, no more we view,
While o'er the mountain's golden head,
Streak'd with tints of crimson hue,
Twilight's filmy curtains spread,
Stealing o'er Nature's face, a desolating shade.
Yon musky FLOW'R, that scents the earth;
The SOD, that gave its odours birth;
The ROCK, that breaks the torrent's force;
The VALE, that owns its wand'ring course;
The woodlands where the vocal throng
Trill the wild melodious song;
Thirsty desarts, sands that glow,
Mountains, cap'd with flaky snow;
Luxuriant groves, enamell'd fields,
All, all, prolific Nature yields,
Alike shall end; the sensate HEART,
With all its passions, all its fire,
Touch'd by FATE'S unerring dart,
Shall feel its vital strength expire;
Those eyes, that beam with FRIENDSHIP'S ray,
And glance ineffable delight,
Shall shrink from LIFE'S translucid day,
And close their fainting orbs, in DEATH'S impervious night.
Then what remains for mortal pow'r;
But TIME'S dull journey to beguile;
To deck with joy, the winged hour,
To meet its sorrows with a patient smile;
And when the toilsome pilgrimage shall end,
To greet the tyrant, as a welcome friend.
Struggling, and faint, and fainter didst thou wane,
O Moon! and round thee all thy starry train
Came forth to help thee, with half-open eyes,
And trembled every one with still surprise,
That the black Spectre should have dared assail
Their beauteous queen and seize her sacred veil.
Once upon a time I heard
That the flying moon was a Phoenix bird;
Thus she sails through windy skies,
Thus in the willow's arms she lies;
Turn to the East or turn to the West
In many trees she makes her nest.
When she's but a pearly thread
Look among birch leaves overhead;
When she dies in yellow smoke
Look in a thunder-smitten oak;
But in May when the moon is full,
Bright as water and white as wool,
Look for her where she loves to be,
Asleep in a high magnolia tree.
They sleep within. . . .
I cower to the earth, I waking, I only.
High and cold thou dreamest, O queen, high-dreaming and lonely.
We have slept too long, who can hardly win
The white one flame, and the night-long crying;
The viewless passers; the world's low sighing
With desire, with yearning,
To the fire unburning,
To the heatless fire, to the flameless ecstasy! . . .
Helpless I lie.
And around me the feet of thy watchers tread.
There is a rumour and a radiance of wings above my head,
An intolerable radiance of wings. . . .
All the earth grows fire,
White lips of desire
Brushing cool on the forehead, croon slumbrous things.
Earth fades; and the air is thrilled with ways,
Dewy paths full of comfort. And radiant bands,
The gracious presence of friendly hands,
Help the blind one, the glad one, who stumbles and strays,
Stretching wavering hands, up, up, through the praise
Of a myriad silver trumpets, through cries,
To all glory, to all gladness, to the infinite height,
To the gracious, the unmoving, the mother eyes,
And the laughter, and the lips, of light.
The moonlight breaks upon the city's domes,
And falls along cemented steel and stone,
Upon the grayness of a million homes,
Lugubrious in unchanging monotone.
Upon the clothes behind the tenement,
That hang like ghosts suspended from the lines,
Linking each flat to each indifferent,
Incongruous and strange the moonlight shines.
There is no magic from your presence here,
Ho, moon, sad moon, tuck up your trailing robe,
Whose silver seems antique and so severe
Against the glow of one electric globe.
Go spill your beauty on the laughing faces
Of happy flowers that bloom a thousand hues,
Waiting on tiptoe in the wilding spaces,
To drink your wine mixed with sweet drafts of dews.
The glitt'ring colours of the day are fled;
Come, melancholy orb! that dwell'st with night,
Come! and o'er earth thy wand'ring lustre shed,
Thy deepest shadow, and thy softest light;
To me congenial is the gloomy grove,
When with faint light the sloping uplands shine;
That gloom, those pensive rays alike I love,
Whose sadness seems in sympathy with mine!
But most for this, pale orb! thy beams are dear,
For this, benignant orb! I hail thee most:
That while I pour the unavailing tear,
And mourn that hope to me in youth is lost,
Thy light can visionary thoughts impart,
And lead the Muse to soothe a suff'ring heart.
Now every leaf, though colorless, burns bright
With disembodied and celestial light,
And drops without a movement or a sound
A pillar of darkness to the shifting ground.
The lucent, thin, and alcoholic flame
Runs in the stubble with a nervous aim,
But, when the eye pursues, will point with fire
Each single stubble-tip and strain no higher.
O triple goddess! Contemplate my plight!
Opacity, my fate! Change, my delight!
The yellow tom-cat, sunk in shifting fur,
Changes and dreams, a phosphorescent blur.
Sullen I wait, but still the vision shun.
Bodiless thoughts and thoughtless bodies run.
O Moon, bright Moon, in all thy glory bound
Thine aspect shall yet soothe the trembling heart
For as thy beauty gleams thus all around
Such sweet serenity thou full impart
For there within the darkness of the night
Upon the starry vault, thy countenance
As like a lantern ever glowing bright
Shall through all time all gentle souls entrance
Then with the wax and waning of thy face
To thus effect the oceans' ebb and flow
The golden sands forever to embrace
Whilst on the steely waters thou dost glow
….. Thou art the ancient keeper of the night
….. Upon the world to set thy shining light
Press'd by the Moon, mute arbitress of tides,
While the loud equinox its power combines,
The sea no more its swelling surge confines,
But o'er the shrinking land sublimely rides.
The wild blast, rising from the Western cave,
Drives the huge billows from their heaving bed;
Tears from their grassy tombs the village dead,
And breaks the silent sabbath of the grave!
With shells and sea-weed mingled, on the shore
Lo! their bones whiten in the frequent wave;
But vain to them the winds and waters rave;
They hear the warring elements no more:
While I am doom'd—by life's long storm opprest,
To gaze with envy on their gloomy rest.
With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!
How silently, and with how wan a face!
What, may it be that even in heav'nly place
That busy archer his sharp arrows tries!
Sure, if that long-with love-acquainted eyes
Can judge of love, thou feel'st a lover's case,
I read it in thy looks; thy languish'd grace
To me, that feel the like, thy state descries.
Then, ev'n of fellowship, O Moon, tell me,
Is constant love deem'd there but want of wit?
Are beauties there as proud as here they be?
Do they above love to be lov'd, and yet
Those lovers scorn whom that love doth possess?
Do they call virtue there ungratefulness?
Whether the Turkish new moon minded be
To fill his horns this year on Christian coast;
How Poles' right king means, with leave of host,
To warm with ill-made fire cold Muscovy;
If French can yet three parts in one agree;
What now the Dutch in their full diets boast;
How Holland hearts, now so good towns be lost,
Trust in the shade of pleasing Orange tree;
How Ulster likes of that same golden bit
Wherewith my father once made it half tame;
If in the Scotch court be no welt'ring yet:
These questions busy wits to me do frame.
I, cumber'd with good manners, answer do,
But know not how, for still I think of you.
Son of the moon
You are brilliant
You are bright
We wanted so much to apologize because we didn’t know you that Well before
Son of the moon
Yes we are both guilty of that
Son of the moon
We had been more occupied with ourselves
Son of the moon
We think that it was so silly and selfish
Only now we realize that
Son of the moon
You are a friend of the sky
The sky would be lost without you
We would be lost without you also
Son of the moon
We know the real you
Son of the moon
We know this innocent world that it is only in our minds
In reality it is not an innocent world
It is an ugly picture that we all paint
And of course it will always remain in our minds
Son of the moon
Dear Lord you know the son of the moon
You created it also
Lets embrace
The son of the moon
Son of the moon
If we will ever find love we hope it will last forever
Son of the moon
We are the warriors of the earth
We fight for freedom
We fight for love
We fight for peace
We fight for what we believe in
Son of the moon
Tonight the moon dreams in a deeper languidness,
And, like a beauty on her cushions, lies at rest;
While drifting off to sleep, a tentative caress
Seeks, with a gentle hand, the contour of her breast;
As on a crest above her silken avalanche,
Dying, she yields herself to an unending swoon,
And sees a pallid vision everywhere she’d glance,
In the azure sky where blossoms have been strewn.
When sometime, in her weariness, upon her sphere
She might permit herself to sheda furtive tear,
A poet of great piety, a foe of sleep,
Catches in the hollow of his hand that tear,
An opal fragment, iridescent as a star;
Within his heart, far from the sun, it’s buried deep.
Sun and Moon
Wishful lovers
Never touch
Languish in silence
Throughout space & time.
She, a fiery siren,
Shines out light,
Passionate love
Towards the object
Of her affection.
And he, the blue moon,
Desiring her caress
Casts his gaze
Upon her visage.
Yet both must find
Permanent satisfaction
With at best and most
Merely the reflection
Of her incandescence
Off his exquisite face.
Full moon jags
Round this little town
Swinging low and deep
Within without a sound
Rocking through some hearts
Passing brightly by a few
Rolling house after house
Picking out quarters for
Shiny piggies and saying
Come out and taste me
Hiders trust me now
Let me return your wishes
Reflect your lustful stare
Deny your precious touches
Cover you slowly unaware
THE cat went here and there
And the moon spun round like a top,
And the nearest kin of the moon,
The creeping cat, looked up.
Black Minnaloushe stared at the moon,
For, wander and wail as he would,
The pure cold light in the sky
Troubled his animal blood.
Minnaloushe runs in the grass
Lifting his delicate feet.
Do you dance, Minnaloushe, do you dance?
When two close kindred meet.
What better than call a dance?
Maybe the moon may learn,
Tired of that courtly fashion,
A new dance turn.
Minnaloushe creeps through the grass
From moonlit place to place,
The sacred moon overhead
Has taken a new phase.
Does Minnaloushe know that his pupils
Will pass from change to change,
And that from round to crescent,
From crescent to round they range?
Minnaloushe creeps through the grass
Alone, important and wise,
And lifts to the changing moon
His changing eyes.
CRAZED through much child-bearing
The moon is staggering in the sky;
Moon-struck by the despairing
Glances of her wandering eye
We grope, and grope in vain,
For children born of her pain.
Children dazed or dead!
When she in all her virginal pride
First trod on the mountain's head
What stir ran through the countryside
Where every foot obeyed her glance!
What manhood led the dance!
Fly-catchers of the moon,
Our hands are blenched, our fingers seem
But slender needles of bone;
Blenched by that malicious dream
They are spread wide that each
May rend what comes in reach.
The man cut his throat and left his head there.
The others went to get it.
When they got there they put the head in a sack.
Farther on the head fell out onto the ground.
They put the head back in the sack.
Farther on the head fell out again.
Around the first sack they put a second one that
was thicker.
But the head fell out just the same.
It should be explained that they were taking the head
to show to the others.
They did not put the head back in the sack.
They left it in the middle of the road.
They went away.
They crossed the river.
But the head followed them.
They climbed up a tree full of fruit
to see whether it would go past.
The head stopped at the foot of the tree
and asked them for some fruit.
So the men shook the tree.
The head went to get the fruit.
Then it asked for some more.
So the men shook the tree
so that the fruit fell into the water.
The head said it couldn't get the fruit from there.
So the men threw the fruit a long way
to make the head go a long way to get it so they could go.
While the head was getting the fruit
the men got down from the tree and went on.
The head came back and looked at the tree
and didn't see anybody
so went on rolling down the road.
The men had stopped to wait
to see whether the head would follow them.
They saw the head come rolling.
They ran.
They got to their hut they told the others that the head
was rolling after them and to shut the door.
All the huts were closed tight.
When it got there the head commanded them to open the doors.
The owners would not open them because they were afraid.
So the head started to think what it would turn into.
If it turned into water they would drink it.
If it turned into earth they would walk on it.
If it turned into a house they would live in it.
If it turned into a steer they would kill it and eat it.
If it turned into a cow they would milk it.
If it turned into a bean they would cook it.
If it turned into the sun
When men were cold it would heat them.
If it turned into rain the grass would grow and the
animals would crop it.
So it thought, and it said, "I will turn into the moon."
It called, "Open the doors, I want to get my things."
They would not open them.
The head cried. It called out, "At least give me
my two balls of twine."
They threw out the two balls of twine through a hole.
It took them and threw them into the sky.
It asked them to throw it a little stick too
to roll the thread around so it could climb up.
Then it said, "I can climb, I am going to the sky."
It started to climb.
The men opened the doors right away.
The head went on climbing.
The men shouted, "You going to the sky, head?"
It didn't answer.
As soon as it got to the Sun
it turned into the Moon.
Toward evening the Moon was white, it was beautiful.
And the men were surprised
to see that the head had turned into the Moon.
Slipping softly through the sky
Little horned, happy moon,
Can you hear me up so high?
Will you come down soon?
On my nursery window-sill
Will you stay your steady flight?
And then float away with me
Through the summer night?
Brushing over tops of trees,
Playing hide and seek with stars,
Peeping up through shiny clouds
At Jupiter or Mars.
I shall fill my lap with roses
Gathered in the milky way,
All to carry home to mother.
Oh! what will she say!
Little rocking, sailing moon,
Do you hear me shout -- Ahoy!
Just a little nearer, moon,
To please a little boy.
The cruel Moon hangs out of reach
Up above the shadowy beech.
Her face is stupid, but her eye
Is small and sharp and very sly.
Nurse says the Moon can drive you mad?
No, that’s a silly story, lad!
Though she be angry, though she would
Destroy all England if she could,
Yet think, what damage can she do
Hanging there so far from you?
Don’t heed what frightened nurses say:
Moons hang much too far away.
The Hunter's Moon rides high,
High o'er the close-cropped plain;
Across the desert sky
The herded clouds amain
Scamper tumultuously,
Chased by the hounding wind
That yelps behind.
The clamorous hunt is done,
Warm-housed the kennelled pack;
One huntsman rides alone
With dangling bridle slack;
He wakes a hollow tone,
Far echoing to his horn
In clefts forlorn.
The Hunter's Moon rides low,
Her course is nearly sped.
Where is the panting roe?
Where hath the wild deer fled?
Hunter and hunted now
Lie in oblivion deep:
Dead or asleep.
I think the moon is very kind
To take such trouble just for me.
He came along with me from home
To keep me company.
He went as fast as I could run;
I wonder how he crossed the sky?
I'm sure he hasn't legs and feet
Or any wings to fly.
Yet here he is above their roof;
Perhaps he thinks it isn't right
For me to go so far alone,
Tho' mother said I might.
[How different people and different animals look upon the moon: showing that each creature finds in it his own mood and disposition]
The Old Horse in the City
The moon's a peck of corn. It lies
Heaped up for me to eat.
I wish that I might climb the path
And taste that supper sweet.
Men feed me straw and scanty grain
And beat me till I'm sore.
Some day I'll break the halter-rope
And smash the stable-door,
Run down the street and mount the hill
Just as the corn appears.
I've seen it rise at certain times
For years and years and years.
What the Hyena Said
The moon is but a golden skull,
She mounts the heavens now,
And Moon-Worms, mighty Moon-Worms
Are wreathed around her brow.
The Moon-Worms are a doughty race:
They eat her gray and golden face.
Her eye-sockets dead, and molding head:
These caverns are their dwelling-place.
The Moon-Worms, serpents of the skies,
From the great hollows of her eyes
Behold all souls, and they are wise:
With tiny, keen and icy eyes,
Behold how each man sins and dies.
When Earth in gold-corruption lies
Long dead, the moon-worm butterflies
On cyclone wings will reach this place —
Yea, rear their brood on earth's dead face.
What the Snow Man Said
The Moon's a snowball. See the drifts
Of white that cross the sphere.
The Moon's a snowball, melted down
A dozen times a year.
Yet rolled again in hot July
When all my days are done
And cool to greet the weary eye
After the scorching sun.
The moon's a piece of winter fair
Renewed the year around,
Behold it, deathless and unstained,
Above the grimy ground!
It rolls on high so brave and white
Where the clear air-rivers flow,
Proclaiming Christmas all the time
And the glory of the snow!
What the Scare-crow Said
The dim-winged spirits of the night
Do fear and serve me well.
They creep from out the hedges of
The garden where I dwell.
I wave my arms across the walk.
The troops obey the sign,
And bring me shimmering shadow-robes
And cups of cowslip-wine.
Then dig a treasure called the moon,
A very precious thing,
And keep it in the air for me
Because I am a King.
What Grandpa Mouse Said
The moon's a holy owl-queen.
She keeps them in a jar
Under her arm till evening,
Then sallies forth to war.
She pours the owls upon us.
They hoot with horrid noise
And eat the naughty mousie-girls
And wicked mousie-boys.
So climb the moonvine every night
And to the owl-queen pray:
Leave good green cheese by moonlit trees
For her to take away.
And never squeak, my children,
Nor gnaw the smoke-house door:
The owl-queen then will love us
And send her birds no more.
The Beggar Speaks
"What Mister Moon Said to Me."
Come, eat the bread of idleness,
Come, sit beside the spring:
Some of the flowers will keep awake,
Some of the birds will sing.
Come, eat the bread no man has sought
For half a hundred years:
Men hurry so they have no griefs,
Nor even idle tears:
They hurry so they have no loves:
They cannot curse nor laugh —
Their hearts die in their youth with neither
Grave nor epitaph.
My bread would make them careless,
And never quite on time —
Their eyelids would be heavy,
Their fancies full of rhyme:
Each soul a mystic rose-tree,
Or a curious incense tree:
Come, eat the bread of idleness,
Said Mister Moon to me.
What the Forester Said
The moon is but a candle-glow
That flickers thro' the gloom:
The starry space, a castle hall:
And Earth, the children's room,
Where all night long the old trees stand
To watch the streams asleep:
Grandmothers guarding trundle-beds:
Good shepherds guarding sheep.
Whilst the moon decks herself in Neptune's glass
And ponders over her image in the sea,
Her cloudy locks smoothing from off her face
That she may all as bright as beauty be;
It is my wont to sit upon the shore
And mark with what an even grace she glides
Her two concurrent paths of azure o'er,
One in the heavens, the other in the tides:
Now with a transient veil her face she hides
And ocean blackens with a human frown;
Now her fine screen of vapour she divides
And looks with all her light of beauty down;
Her splendid smile over-silvering the main
Spreads her the glass she looks into again.
This fact is clear....Both man and woman
Prize not what's good, but what's uncommon ;
And most delighted still they are,
Not with the excellent, but rare,....
I could of this give proofs most stable,
But, par exemple , take a fable.
'T was night....but still a mimic day
Shone softly forth from milky way;
For now the bright unclouded moon
'Was riding in her highest noon....'
Who, as she slowly sailed along,
Beheld a most unusual throng
With eyes upraised devoutly gazing,
And heard, "Behold! see there! amazing!"
"What can this mean?" dame Cynthia said,
"Perhaps," and high she drew her head,
"Perhaps that I to earth tonight
Shine with unwonted beauty bright;
And therefore mortals in amaze
Come crowding forth on me to gaze;"
And then,....for heavenly beauties love,
Like earthly ones, applause to move,....
She stooped, within a lake below
To see how looked her sparkling brow:
And as her crescent she adjusted,
She thought, if mirrors might be trusted,
That night, so wondrous was her beauty,
To gaze on her was mortals' duty.
But O! sad fall to female pride!
She soon with wondering looks descried
'Twas not on her that eyes were turned;
For her no curious ardour burned;
At her no telescopes were aimed,
Nor wonder at her charms proclaimed;....
Some other idol now, she found,
Had fickle man in fetters bound;
And Cynthia was compelled to own,
Unseen her matchless beauty shone.
"But what," she cried, "thus rivals me?
I all the stars and planets see....
Orion has his belt in order;
Of Saturn's ring bright shines the border;
Mars sports his coat of reddest hue;
The Bear has put his horses to;....
But still, these sights so oft are seen,
There's nothing new in them I ween:
And after all I know the cry
Is, 'they are nought when I am by....'
'Tis strange; and I shall surely pout
Until I've found my rival out."
This said, she looked on every side
With eager looks of wounded pride,
And round with all the spite inspected
Of conscious beauty quite neglected;
When, lo! she saw with wondring breast,
Just twinkling in the northern west,
And dimly seen, since seen from far,
A rayless, misty, long-tailed star;
While homage from her charms was ravished,
To be on this poor Comet lavished!
W--k--e, beware! Though amateurs,
And nobles, artists, connoisseurs,
Thy works admire, thy skill commend,
And smiling o'er thy canvass bend,
Thy powers will be no more respected,
Thy crowded easel soon neglected,
If ever artist should appear
(The comet of dame fashion's sphere,)
Who works to wondering London shows
Not done with fingers, but with....toes.
The Moon, how definite its orb!
Yet gaze again, and with a steady gaze--
'Tis there indeed,--but where is it not?--
It is suffused o'er all the sapphire Heaven,
Trees, herbage, snake-like stream, unwrinkled Lake,
Whose very murmur does of it partake
And low and close the broad smooth mountain
Is more a thing of Heaven than when
Distinct by one dim shade and yet undivided from the universal cloud
In which it towers, finite in height.
He coveted her portrait.
He toiled as she grew gay.
She loved to see him labor
In that devoted way.
And in the end it pleased her,
But bowed him more with care.
Her rose-smile showed so plainly,
Her soul-smile was not there.
That night he groped without a lamp
To find a cloak, a book,
And on the vexing portrait
By moonrise chanced to look.
The color-scheme was out of key,
The maiden rose-smile faint,
But through the blessed darkness
She gleamed, his friendly saint.
The comrade, white, immortal,
His bride, and more than bride—
The citizen, the sage of mind,
For whom he lived and died.
Sleep! Cast thy canopy
Over this sleeper's brain,
Dim grow his memory,
When he wake again.
Love stays a summer night,
Till lights of morning come;
Then takes her winged flight
Back to her starry home.
Sleep! Yet thy days are mine;
Love's seal is over thee:
Far though my ways from thine,
Dim though thy memory.
Love stays a summer night,
Till lights of morning come;
Then takes her winged flight
Back to her starry home.
The sunset melts upon the Nile,
The stony desert glows,
Beneath heaven's universal smile,
One burning damask rose;
And like a Peri's pearly boat,
No longer than a span,
Look, faint on fiery sky afloat,
The Moon of Ramadân.
Our boat drifts idly with the Stream,
Our boatmen ship the oar;
Vistas of endless temples gleam
On either topaz shore;
And swimming over groves of Palm,
A crescent weak and wan,
There steals into the perfect calm
The Moon of Ramadân.
All nature seems to bask in peace
And hush her lowest sigh;
Above the river's golden fleece
The happy Halcyons fly.
And lost in some old lotos dream,
The pensive Pelican
Sees mirrored in the mazy stream
The Moon of Ramadân.
Black outlined on the golden air
A turbaned Silhouette,
The Mueddin invites to prayer
From many a Minaret.
Our dusky boatmen hear the call,
And prostrate, man on man,
They bow, adoring, one and all,
The Moon of Ramadân.
Where Luxor's rose-flushed columns shine
Above the river's brim,
The priests with incense once, and wine,
Made sacrifice to Him,
The highest god of Thebes, and head
Of all the heavenly clan;
But now the Moslem hails instead
The Moon of Ramadân.
The gods have come, the gods have gone,
Yet wedded to their walls,
Winged with the serpent of the Sun
In mute processionals,
They stride from door to massy door,
Bound nations in their van,
Though Amon's Sun has waned before
The Moon of Ramadân.
Yea, even proud Egypt's proudest king,
Who chastised rebel lands,
And brought his gods for offering
Mountains of severed hands;
Who singly, like a god of War,
Smote hosts that swerved and ran,
Lies low 'neath Allah's scimetar--
The Moon of Ramadân.
And Isis, Queen, whose sacred disk's
Horned splendour crowned her brow,
While fires of flashing Obelisks
Flamed in the Afterglow;
And white-robed priests who served her shrine
Have turned Mahommedan,
And worship Him who wears for sign
The Moon of Ramadân.
The rosy lotos, flower and leaf,
Which wreathed each sacred lake,
With Nature's loveliest bas-relief,
Has followed in their wake;
Yea, with the last true Pharaoh's death,
The lotos leaves, grown wan,
Have changed to lily white beneath
The Moon of Ramadân.
The gods may come, the gods may go,
And royal realms change hands;
But the most ancient Nile will flow,
And flood the desert sands;
And nightly will he glass the stars'
Unearthly caravan,
Nor care if it be Rome's red Mars
Or Moon of Ramadân.
The sunset fades upon the Nile;
The desert's stony gloom,
Receding blankly mile on mile,
Grows silent as a tomb.
All weary wanderers, man and beast,
Hie, fasting, to the Khan,
While shines above their nightly feast
The Moon of Ramadân.
Time wears her not; she doth his chariot guide;
Mortality below her orb is placed.
--Raleigh
The full-orbed moon with unchanged ray
Mounts up the eastern sky,
Not doomed to these short nights for aye,
But shining steadily.
She does not wane, but my fortune,
Which her rays do not bless,
My wayward path declineth soon,
But she shines not the less.
And if she faintly glimmers here,
And paled is her light,
Yet alway in her proper sphere
She's mistress of the night.
I
AND, like a dying lady lean and pale,
Who totters forth, wrapp'd in a gauzy veil,
Out of her chamber, led by the insane
And feeble wanderings of her fading brain,
The mood arose up in the murky east,
A white and shapeless mass.
II
Art thou pale for weariness
Of climbing heaven and gazing on the earth,
Wandering companionless
Among the stars that have a different birth,
And ever changing, like a joyless eye
That finds no object worth its constancy?
The moon has a face like the clock in the hall;
She shines on thieves on the garden wall,
On streets and fields and harbour quays,
And birdies asleep in the forks of the trees.
The squalling cat and the squeaking mouse,
The howling dog by the door of the house,
The bat that lies in bed at noon,
All love to be out by the light of the moon.
But all of the things that belong to the day
Cuddle to sleep to be out of her way;
And flowers and children close their eyes
Till up in the morning the sun shall arise.
THE stars about the lovely moon
Fade back and vanish very soon,
When, round and full, her silver face
Swims into sight, and lights all space
Thy beauty haunts me heart and soul,
Oh, thou fair Moon, so close and bright;
Thy beauty makes me like the child
That cries aloud to own thy light:
The little child that lifts each arm
To press thee to her bosom warm.
Though there are birds that sing this night
With thy white beams across their throats,
Let my deep silence speak for me
More than for them their sweetest notes:
Who worships thee till music fails,
Is greater than thy nightingales.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou seemest most charming to my sight;
As I gaze upon thee in the sky so high,
A tear of joy does moisten mine eye.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the Esquimau in the night;
For thou lettest him see to harpoon the fish,
And with them he makes a dainty dish.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the fox in the night,
And lettest him see to steal the grey goose away
Out of the farm-yard from a stack of hay.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the farmer in the night,
and makes his heart beat high with delight
As he views his crops by the light in the night.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the eagle in the night,
And lettest him see to devour his prey
And carry it to his nest away.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the mariner in the night
As he paces the deck alone,
Thinking of his dear friends at home.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the weary traveller in the night;
For thou lightest up the wayside around
To him when he is homeward bound.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the lovers in the night
As they walk through the shady groves alone,
Making love to each other before they go home.
Beautiful Moon, with thy silvery light,
Thou cheerest the poacher in the night;
For thou lettest him see to set his snares
To catch the rabbit and the hares.
The moon tonight--
I even miss
her grumbling.
Translated by Robert Hass
I sit here, an arch-villain of romance,
thinking about you. Gee, I'm sorry
I made you unhappy, but there was nothing
I could do about it because I have to be free.
Perhaps everything would have been different
if you had stayed at the table or asked me
to go out with you to look at the moon,
instead of getting up and leaving me alone with
her.
737
The Moon was but a Chin of Gold
A Night or two ago—
And now she turns Her perfect Face
Upon the World below—
Her Forehead is of Amplest Blonde—
Her Cheek—a Beryl hewn—
Her Eye unto the Summer Dew
The likest I have known—
Her Lips of Amber never part—
But what must be the smile
Upon Her Friend she could confer
Were such Her Silver Will—
And what a privilege to be
But the remotest Star—
For Certainty She take Her Way
Beside Your Palace Door—
Her Bonnet is the Firmament—
The Universe—Her Shoe—
The Stars—the Trinkets at Her Belt—
Her Dimities—of Blue—
What have you got in your knapsack fair,
White moon, bright moon, pearling the air,
Spinning your bobbins and fabrics free,
Fleet moon, sweet moon, in to the sea?
Turquoise and beryl and rings of gold,
Clear moon, dear moon, ne’er to be sold?
Roses and lilies, romance and love,
Still moon, chill moon, swinging above?
Slender your feet as a white birds throat,
High moon, shy moon, drifting your boat
Into the murk of the world awhile,
Slim moon, dim moon, adding a smile.
Tender your eyes as a maiden’s kiss,
Fine moon, wine moon, no one knows this,
Under the spell of your witchery,
Dream moon, cream moon, first he kissed me.
The beautiful and slender young New Moon,
In trailing robes of pink and palest blue,
Swept close to Venus, and breathed low: 'A boon,
A precious boon, I ask, dear friend, of you.'
'O queen of light and beauty, you have known
The pangs of love - its passions and alarms;
Then grant me this one favour, let my own -
My lost Old Moon be once more in my arms.'
Swift thro' the vapours and the golden mist -
The Full Moon's shadowy shape shone on the night,
The New Moon reached out clasping arms and kissed
Her phantom lover in the whole world's sight.
An old man cocked his car upon a bridge;
He and his friend, their faces to the South,
Had trod the uneven road.  Their hoots were soiled,
Their Connemara cloth worn out of shape;
They had kept a steady pace as though their beds,
Despite a dwindling and late-risen moon,
Were distant still.  An old man cocked his ear.
Aherne. What made that Sound?
Robartes. A rat or water-hen
Splashed, or an otter slid into the stream.
We are on the bridge; that shadow is the tower,
And the light proves that he is reading still.
He has found, after the manner of his kind,
Mere images; chosen this place to live in
Because, it may be, of the candle-light
From the far tower where Milton's Platonist
Sat late, or Shelley's visionary prince:
The lonely light that Samuel Palmer engraved,
An image of mysterious wisdom won by toil;
And now he seeks in book or manuscript
What he shall never find.
Ahernc. Why should not you
Who know it all ring at his door, and speak
Just truth enough to show that his whole life
Will scarcely find for him a broken crust
Of all those truths that are your daily bread;
And when you have spoken take the roads again?
Robartes. He wrote of me in that extravagant style
He had learnt from pater, and to round his tale
Said I was dead; and dead I choose to be.
Aherne. Sing me the changes of the moon once more;
True song, though speech:  'mine author sung it me.'
Robartes. Twenty-and-eight the phases of the moon,
The full and the moon's dark and all the crescents,
Twenty-and-eight, and yet but six-and-twenty
The cradles that a man must needs be rocked in:
For there's no human life at the full or the dark.
From the first crescent to the half, the dream
But summons to adventure and the man
Is always happy like a bird or a beast;
But while the moon is rounding towards the full
He follows whatever whim's most difficult
Among whims not impossible, and though scarred.
As with the cat-o'-nine-tails of the mind,
His body moulded from within his body
Grows comelier.  Eleven pass, and then
Athene takes Achilles by the hair,
Hector is in the dust, Nietzsche is born,
Because the hero's crescent is the twelfth.
And yet, twice born, twice buried, grow he must,
Before the full moon, helpless as a worm.
The thirteenth moon but sets the soul at war
In its own being, and when that war's begun
There is no muscle in the arm; and after,
Under the frenzy of the fourteenth moon,
The soul begins to tremble into stillness,
To die into the labyrinth of itself!
Aherne. Sing out the song; sing to the end, and sing
The strange reward of all that discipline.
Robartes. All thought becomes an image and the soul
Becomes a body:  that body and that soul
Too perfect at the full to lie in a cradle,
Too lonely for the traffic of the world:
Body and soul cast out and cast away
Beyond the visible world.
Aherne. All dreams of the soul
End in a beautiful man's or woman's body.
Robartes, Have you not always known it?
Aherne. The song will have it
That those that we have loved got their long fingers
From death, and wounds, or on Sinai's top,
Or from some bloody whip in their own hands.
They ran from cradle to cradle till at last
Their beauty dropped out of the loneliness
Of body and soul.
Robartes. The lover's heart knows that.
Aherne. It must be that the terror in their eyes
Is memory or foreknowledge of the hour
When all is fed with light and heaven is bare.
Robartes. When the moon's full those creatures of the full
Are met on the waste hills by countrymen
Who shudder and hurry by:  body and soul
Estranged amid the strangeness of themselves,
Caught up in contemplation, the mind's eye
Fixed upon images that once were thought;
For separate, perfect, and immovable
Images can break the solitude
Of lovely, satisfied, indifferent eyes.
And thereupon with aged, high-pitched voice
Aherne laughed, thinking of the man within,
His sleepless candle and lahorious pen.
Robartes. And after that the crumbling of the moon.
The soul remembering its loneliness
Shudders in many cradles; all is changed,
It would be the world's servant, and as it serves,
Choosing whatever task's most difficult
Among tasks not impossible, it takes
Upon the body and upon the soul
The coarseness of the drudge.
Aherne. Before the full
It sought itself and afterwards the world.
Robartes. Because you are forgotten, half out of life,
And never wrote a book, your thought is clear.
Reformer, merchant, statesman, learned man,
Dutiful husband, honest wife by turn,
Cradle upon cradle, and all in flight and all
Deformed because there is no deformity
But saves us from a dream.
Aherne. And what of those
That the last servile crescent has set free?
Robartes. Because all dark, like those that are all light,
They are cast beyond the verge, and in a cloud,
Crying to one another like the bats;
And having no desire they cannot tell
What's good or bad, or what it is to triumph
At the perfection of one's own obedience;
And yet they speak what's blown into the mind;
Deformed beyond deformity, unformed,
Insipid as the dough before it is baked,
They change their bodies at a word.
Aherne. And then?
Rohartes. When all the dough has been so kneaded up
That it can take what form cook Nature fancies,
The first thin crescent is wheeled round once more.
Aherne. But the escape; the song's not finished yet.
Robartes. Hunchback and Saint and Fool are the last crescents.
The burning bow that once could shoot an arrow
Out of the up and down, the wagon-wheel
Of beauty's cruelty and wisdom's chatter --
Out of that raving tide -- is drawn betwixt
Deformity of body and of mind.
Aherne. Were not our beds far off I'd ring the bell,
Stand under the rough roof-timbers of the hall
Beside the castle door, where all is stark
Austerity, a place set out for wisdom
That he will never find; I'd play a part;
He would never know me after all these years
But take me for some drunken countryman:
I'd stand and mutter there until he caught
'Hunchback and Sant and Fool,' and that they came
Under the three last crescents of the moon.
And then I'd stagger out.  He'd crack his wits
Day after day, yet never find the meaning.
And then he laughed to think that what seemed hard
Should be so simple -- a bat rose from the hazels
And circled round him with its squeaky cry,
The light in the tower window was put out.
THE moon shines in my body, but my blind eyes cannot see it:
The moon is within me, and so is the sun.
The unstruck drum of Eternity is sounded within me; but my deaf ears cannot hear it.
So long as man clamours for the I and the Mine, his works are as naught:
When all love of the I and the Mine is dead, then the work of the Lord is done.
For work has no other aim than the getting of knowledge:
When that comes, then work is put away.
The flower blooms for the fruit: when the fruit comes, the flower withers.
The musk is in the deer, but it seeks it not within itself: it wanders in quest of grass.
871
The Sun and Moon must make their haste—
The Stars express around
For in the Zones of Paradise
The Lord alone is burned—
His Eye, it is the East and West—
The North and South when He
Do concentrate His Countenance
Like Glow Worms, flee away—
Oh Poor and Far—
Oh Hindred Eye
That hunted for the Day—
The Lord a Candle entertains
Entirely for Thee—
And like a dying lady, lean and pale,
Who totters forth, wrapped in a gauzy veil,
Out of her chamber, led by the insane
And feeble wanderings of her fading brain,
The moon arose up in the murky east,
A white and shapeless mass.
They lived enamoured of the lovely moon,
The dawn and twilight on their gentle lake.
Then Passion marvellously born did shake
Their breast and drave them into the mid-noon.
Their lives did shrink to one desire, and soon
They rose fire-eyed to follow in the wake
Of one eternal thought,--when sudden brake
Their hearts. They died, in miserable swoon.
Of all their agony not a sound was heard.
The glory of the Earth is more than they.
She asks her lovely image of the day:
A flower grows, a million boughs are green,
And over moving ocean-waves the bird
Chases his shadow and is no more seen.
The young May moon is beaming, love.
The glow-worm's lamp is gleaming, love.
How sweet to rove,
Through Morna's grove,
When the drowsy world is dreaming, love!
Then awake! -- the heavens look bright, my dear,
'Tis never too late for delight, my dear,
And the best of all ways
To lengthen our days
Is to steal a few hours from the night, my dear!
Now all the world is sleeping, love,
But the Sage, his star-watch keeping, love,
And I, whose star,
More glorious far,
Is the eye from that casement peeping, love.
Then awake! -- till rise of sun, my dear,
The Sage's glass we'll shun, my dear,
Or, in watching the flight
Of bodies of light,
He might happen to take thee for one, my dear.
Thief of the moon, thou robber of old delight,
Thy charms have stolen the star-gold, quenched the moon-
Cold, cold are the birds that, bubbling out of night,
Cried once to my ears their unremembered tune-
Dark are those orchards, their leaves no longer shine,
No orange's gold is globed like moonrise there-
O thief of the earth's old loveliness, once mine,
Why dost thou waste all beauty to make thee fair?
Break, break thy strings, thou lutanists of earth,
Thy musics touch me not-let midnight cover
With pitchy seas those leaves of orange and lime,
I'll not repent. The world's no longer worth
One smile from thee, dear pirate of place and time,
Thief of old loves that haunted once thy lover!
With a jar of wine I sit by the flowering trees.
I drink alone, and where are my friends?
Ah, the moon above looks down on me;
I call and lift my cup to his brightness.
And see, there goes my shadow before me.
Ho! We're a party of three, I say,—
Though the poor moon can't drink,
And my shadow but dances around me,
We're all friends to-night,
The drinker, the moon and the shadow.
Let our revelry be meet for the spring time!
I sing, the wild moon wanders the sky.
I dance, my shadow goes tumbling about.
While we're awake, let us join in carousal;
Only sweet drunkenness shall ever part us.
Let us pledge a friendship no mortals know,
And often hail each other at evening
Far across the vast and vaporous space!
Since the disorders in Henan and the famine in Guannei, my brothers and sisters have been scattered. Looking at the moon, I express my thoughts in this poem, which I send to my eldest brother at Fuliang, my seventh brother at Yuqian, My fifteen brother at Wujiang and my younger brothers and sisters at Fuli and Xiagui.
My heritage lost through disorder and famine,
My brothers and sisters flung eastward and westward,
My fields and gardens wrecked by the war,
My own flesh and blood become scum of the street,
I moan to my shadow like a lone-wandering wildgoose,
I am torn from my root like a water-plant in autumn:
I gaze at the moon, and my tears run down
For hearts, in five places, all sick with one wish.
With musing mind I watch thee steal
Above those envious clouds that hid
Till now thy face; thou dost reveal
More than the glaring sunlight did;
So round me would I have thy light
In one broad sea of beauty lie,
And who, while thou dost rule the night,
For day would sigh,
Nor long for wings that he might flee
To find thy hidden face and ride the dark with thee?
And hence it was that ever forth
My fancy doated more and more
Upon the wild poetic worth
Of that old tale in Grecian lore,
Which to the head of Latmos gave
Supernal glories, passion-won
By him who, in the mystic cave—
Endymion—
Was wont to meet thee night by night,
And drink into his soul the spirit of thy light.
Not thus it was thy beauty shone
In these drear summers lately past;
Disheartened, world-distrusting, lone,
I shuddered in misfortune’s blast!
Many that loved me, once were nigh
Of whom now these I may not trust,
And those forget me—or they lie
Dark in the dust!
And never can we meet again,
Loving and loved as then, beneath thy friendly reign.
O Cynthia! It would even seem
That portions from our spirits fell,
Like scent from flowers, throughout life’s dream;
And by that clue invisible,
A gathered after-scene of all
Affection builded high in vain,
Is drawn thus in dim funeral
Past us again;
The which, where shadowed most with gloom,
Uncertain thought is fain to map with spells of doom.
Let me this night the past forget,
For though its dying voices be
At times like tones from Eden, yet
The years have brought such change for me
That when but now my thoughts were given
To all I’d suffered, loved, and lost,
Turning my eyes again to heaven,
Tear-quenched almost,
I started with impatience strange,
To find thee, even thee, smiling untouched by change!
O vain display of secred pride!
My human heart, what irks thee so?
What, in the scale of being tried,
Should weigh thy happiness or woe?
Pale millions, so by fortune curst,
Have loved for sorrow in the light
Of this yet youthful morn, since first
She claimed the night,
And thus mature even from her birth,
With pale beam chased the glooms that swathed the infant earth.
And be it humbling, too, to know
That when this pile of haughty clay
For ages shall have ceased to glow—
Shrunk to a line of ashes grey,
Which, as the invasive ploughshare drills
The unremembered burial sward,
The wild winds o’er a hundred hills
May whirl abroad—
That in the midnight heavens thou
Shalt hang thy unfaded lamp, and smile serene as now.
Nay, more than this: could even those,
The Edenites, who sorrowed here
Ere Noah’s tilted ark arose,
Or Nimrod chased the bounding deer—
Wherever sepulchred, could they
The rigid bonds of death and doom
Now for a moment shake away—
From out their tomb
They watchful face they still might see,
Just as they dying left it, gazing solemnly.
I sadden! Ah! Why bringest thou
Yet later memories to my mind?
I would but gaze upon thee now
A wiser counsel thence to find!
Shall I not even henceforth aim
To shun in act, in thought control,
Whatever dims the heaven-born flame—
The essential soul
I feel within, and which must be
A living light when thine is quenched eternally?
Art thou pale for weariness
Of climbing heaven and gazing on the earth,
Wandering companionless
Among the stars that have a different birth, -
And ever changing, like a joyless eye
That finds no object worth its constancy?
Hide this one night thy crescent, kindly Moon;
So shall Endymion faithful prove, and rest
Loving and unawakened on thy breast;
So shall no foul enchanter importune
Thy quiet course; for now the night is boon,
And through the friendly night unseen I fare,
Who dread the face of foemen unaware,
And watch of hostile spies in the bright noon.
Thou knowest, Moon, the bitter power of Love;
’Tis told how shepherd Pan found ways to move,
For little price, thy heart; and of your grace,
Sweet stars, be kind to this not alien fire,
Because on earth ye did not scorn desire,
Bethink ye, now ye hold your heavenly place.
With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!
How silently, and with how wan a face!
What! May it be that even in heavenly place
That busy archer his sharp arrows tries?
Sure, if that long-with-love-acquainted eyes
Can judge of love, thou feel'st a lover's case:
I read it in thy looks; thy languished grace
To me, that feel the like, thy state descries.
Then, even of fellowship, O Moon, tell me,
Is constant love deemed there but want of wit?
Are beauties there as proud as here they be?
Do they above love to be loved, and yet
Those lovers scorn whom that love doth possess?
Do they call 'virtue' there— ungratefulness?
Under the harvest moon,
When the soft silver
Drips shimmering
Over the garden nights,
Death, the gray mocker,
Comes and whispers to you
As a beautiful friend
Who remembers.
Under the summer roses
When the flagrant crimson
Lurks in the dusk
Of the wild red leaves,
Love, with little hands,
Comes and touches you
With a thousand memories,
And asks you
Beautiful, unanswerable questions.
Under the crescent moon's faint glow
The washerman's bat resounds afar,
And the autumn breeze sighs tenderly.
But my heart has gone to the Tartar war,
To bleak Kansuh and the steppes of snow,
Calling my husband back to me.
I HAVE no happiness in dreaming of Brycelinde,
Nor Avalon the grass-green hollow, nor Joyous Isle,
Where one found Lancelot crazed and hid him for a while;
Nor Uladh, when Naoise had thrown a sail upon the wind;
Nor lands that seem too dim to be burdens on the heart:
Land-under-Wave, where out of the moon's light and the sun's
Seven old sisters wind the threads of the long-lived ones,
Land-of-the-Tower, where Aengus has thrown the gates apart,
And Wood-of-Wonders, where one kills an ox at dawn,
To find it when night falls laid on a golden bier.
Therein are many queens like Branwen and Guinevere;
And Niamh and Laban and Fand, who could change to an otter or fawn,
And the wood-woman, whose lover was changed to a blue-eyed hawk;
And whether I go in my dreams by woodland, or dun, or shore,
Or on the unpeopled waves with kings to pull at the oar,
I hear the harp-string praise them, or hear their mournful talk.
Because of something told under the famished horn
Of the hunter's moon, that hung between the night and the day,
To dream of women whose beauty was folded in dis may,
Even in an old story, is a burden not to be borne.
Not the moon. A flower
on the other side of the water.
The water sweeps past in flood,
dragging a whole tree by the hair,
a barn, a bridge. The flower
sings on the far bank.
Not a flower, a bird calling
hidden among the darkest trees, music
over the water, making a silence
out of the brown folds of the river's cloak.
The moon. No, a young man walking
under the trees. There are lanterns
among the leaves.
Tender, wise, merry,
his face is awake with its own light,
I see it across the water as if close up.
A jester. The music rings from his bells,
gravely, a tune of sorrow,
I dance to it on my riverbank.
What counsel has the hooded moon
Put in thy heart, my shyly sweet,
Of Love in ancient plenilune,
Glory and stars beneath his feet -- -
A sage that is but kith and kin
With the comedian Capuchin?
Believe me rather that am wise
In disregard of the divine,
A glory kindles in those eyes
Trembles to starlight. Mine, O Mine!
No more be tears in moon or mist
For thee, sweet sentimentalist.
Two statesmen met by moonlight.
Their ease was partly feigned.
They glanced about the prairie.
Their faces were constrained.
In various ways aforetime
They had misled the state,
Yet did it so politely
Their henchmen thought them great.
They sat beneath a hedge and spake
No word, but had a smoke.
A satchel passed from hand to hand.
Next day, the deadlock broke.
White in the moon the long road lies,
The moon stands blank above;
White in the moon the long road lies
That leads me from my love.
Still hangs the hedge without a gust,
Still, still the shadows stay:
My feet upon the moonlit dust
Pursue the ceaseless way.
The world is round, so travellers tell,
And straight though reach the track,
Trudge on, trudge on, 'twill all be well,
The way will guide one back.
But ere the circle homeward hies
Far, far must it remove:
White in the moon the long road lies
That leads me from my love.
With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the sky,
"How silently, and with how wan a face!"
Where art thou? Thou so often seen on high
Running among the clouds a Wood-nymph's race!
Unhappy Nuns, whose common breath's a sigh
Which they would stifle, move at such a pace!
The northern Wind, to call thee to the chase,
Must blow to-night his bugle horn. Had I
The power of Merlin, Goddess! this should be:
And all the stars, fast as the clouds were riven,
Should sally forth, to keep thee company,
Hurrying and sparkling through the clear blue heaven.
But, Cynthia! should to thee the palm be given,
Queen both for beauty and for majesty.
504
You know that Portrait in the Moon—
So tell me who 'tis like—
The very Brow—the stooping eyes—
A fog for—Say—Whose Sake?
The very Pattern of the Cheek—
It varies—in the Chin—
But—Ishmael—since we met—'tis long—
And fashions—intervene—
When Moon's at full—'Tis Thou—I say—
My lips just hold the name—
When crescent—Thou art worn—I note—
But—there—the Golden Same—
And when—Some Night—Bold—slashing Clouds
Cut Thee away from Me—
That's easier—than the other film
That glazes Holiday—
In life’s ups and downs, good or bad
She’s always with me happy or sad
I will always long for my mother’s blessings
No matter which way my fate swings, .
Just ask her for help to do,
And she’ll sacrifice everything for you.
If you ask me, have I ever seen god,
Yes, it’s my mother for me, I’ll say with a nod.
Happy birthday Mother[14/5].
Rdnr Copyright V.G. Aarella 14/5/06
I'd known her all my life,
nursed her for seven years
night and day
yet when last night I lay down to sleep
I heard myself say
as if to someone else,
what a splendid lady,
I wish I'd known her better
Father and
Mother love too
Making Your's body...
God give to is love
For  Your's sole...
Father and brother's
Sister's with friend's
Give to is love's
For Your's out side of
World thing's...!
Body of love given
Mother for Your's
Child wood
For feeding...!
After given
The body of love
your's wife safley...
So, wife is a
2nd mother...!
Yes its true;
For the Family
Man's life...!
From the first it had been like a
Ballad. It had the beat inevitable. It had the blood.
A wildness cut up, and tied in little bunches,
Like the four-line stanzas of the ballads she had never quite
understood--the ballads they had set her to, in school.
Herself: the milk-white maid, the "maid mild"
Of the ballad. Pursued
By the Dark Villain. Rescued by the Fine Prince.
The Happiness-Ever-After.
That was worth anything.
It was good to be a "maid mild."
That made the breath go fast.
Her bacon burned. She
Hastened to hide it in the step-on can, and
Drew more strips from the meat case. The eggs and sour-milk biscuits
Did well. She set out a jar
Of her new quince preserve.
. . . But there was something about the matter of the Dark Villain.
He should have been older, perhaps.
The hacking down of a villain was more fun to think about
When his menace possessed undisputed breath, undisputed height,
And best of all, when history was cluttered
With the bones of many eaten knights and princesses.
The fun was disturbed, then all but nullified
When the Dark Villain was a blackish child
Of Fourteen, with eyes still too young to be dirty,
And a mouth too young to have lost every reminder
Of its infant softness.
That boy must have been surprised! For
These were grown-ups. Grown-ups were supposed to be wise.
And the Fine Prince--and that other--so tall, so broad, so
Grown! Perhaps the boy had never guessed
That the trouble with grown-ups was that under the magnificent shell of adulthood, just under,
Waited the baby full of tantrums.
It occurred to her that there may have been something
Ridiculous to the picture of the Fine Prince
Rushing (rich with the breadth and height and
Mature solidness whose lack, in the Dark Villain, was impressing her,
Confronting her more and more as this first day after the trial
And acquittal (wore on) rushing
With his heavy companion to hack down (unhorsed)
That little foe. So much had happened, she could not remember now what that foe had done
Against her, or if anything had been done.
The breaks were everywhere. That she could think
Of no thread capable of the necessary
Sew-work.
She made the babies sit in their places at the table.
Then, before calling HIM, she hurried
To the mirror with her comb and lipstick. It was necessary
To be more beautiful than ever.
The beautiful wife.
For sometimes she fancied he looked at her as though
Measuring her. As if he considered, Had she been worth it?
Had she been worth the blood, the cramped cries, the little stirring bravado, The gradual dulling of those Negro eyes,
The sudden, overwhelming little-boyness in that barn?
Whatever she might feel or half-feel, the lipstick necessity was something apart. HE must never conclude
That she had not been worth it.
HE sat down, the Fine Prince, and
Began buttering a biscuit. HE looked at HIS hands.
More papers were in from the North, HE mumbled. More maddening headlines.
With their pepper-words, "bestiality," and "barbarism," and
"Shocking."
The half-sneers HE had mastered for the trial worked across
HIS sweet and pretty face.
What HE'd like to do, HE explained, was kill them all.
The time lost. The unwanted fame.
Still, it had been fun to show those intruders
A thing or two. To show that snappy-eyed mother,
That sassy, Northern, brown-black--
Nothing could stop Mississippi.
HE knew that. Big fella
Knew that.
And, what was so good, Mississippi knew that.
They could send in their petitions, and scar
Their newspapers with bleeding headlines. Their governors
Could appeal to Washington . . .
"What I want," the older baby said, "is 'lasses on my jam."
Whereupon the younger baby
Picked up the molasses pitcher and threw
The molasses in his brother's face. Instantly
The Fine Prince leaned across the table and slapped
The small and smiling criminal.
She did not speak. When the HAND
Came down and away, and she could look at her child,
At her baby-child,
She could think only of blood.
Surely her baby's cheek
Had disappeared, and in its place, surely,
Hung a heaviness, a lengthening red, a red that had no end.
She shook her had. It was not true, of course.
It was not true at all. The
Child's face was as always, the
Color of the paste in her paste-jar.
She left the table, to the tune of the children's lamentations, which were shriller
Than ever. She
Looked out of a window. She said not a word. That
Was one of the new Somethings--
The fear,
Tying her as with iron.
Suddenly she felt his hands upon her. He had followed her
To the window. The children were whimpering now.
Such bits of tots. And she, their mother,
Could not protect them. She looked at her shoulders, still
Gripped in the claim of his hands. She tried, but could not resist the idea
That a red ooze was seeping, spreading darkly, thickly, slowly,
Over her white shoulders, her own shoulders,
And over all of Earth and Mars.
He whispered something to her, did the Fine Prince, something about love and night and intention.
She heard no hoof-beat of the horse and saw no flash of the shining steel.
He pulled her face around to meet
His, and there it was, close close,
For the first time in all the days and nights.
His mouth, wet and red,
So very, very, very red,
Closed over hers.
Then a sickness heaved within her. The courtroom Coca-Cola,
The courtroom beer and hate and sweat and drone,
Pushed like a wall against her. She wanted to bear it.
But his mouth would not go away and neither would the
Decapitated exclamation points in that Other Woman's eyes.
She did not scream.
She stood there.
But a hatred for him burst into glorious flower,
And its perfume enclasped them--big,
Bigger than all magnolias.
The last bleak news of the ballad.
The rest of the rugged music.
The last quatrain.
Now - our home is extremely lonesome
Since my son went away.
Although the sun is shining,
The sky seems dull and gray.
The room that he once occupied
And tended with diligent care,
Has sort of lost its luster,
But the remnants of his youth are still there.
During his formative years and more
He'd been living at my side.
I can see him standing near me,
My heart filled with the utmost pride.
Seemed as if some timid apparition
Had come strolling toward me,
And I clasped it close and hugged it,
Elated and proud as I could be.
Oh, the sound of his voice and laughter,
Oh, the sparkle in his eyes,
Full of joy, eagerness, and confidence,
How those youth years went slipping by?
Somehow - the thought of his demise
Never came to him or me.
I always prayed for his safety in a war
In a land far across the sea.
So, I know amid the realm of our community,
Of our household so thoughtful and fair,
My son's soul is beckoning me,
I can hear it everywhere,
In the stillness and in the darkness,
As about the house I roam,
The melancholy voice is always the same,
' I'm coming mom, I'm coming home.'
Ah, woe is me, my mother dear!
A man of strife ye've born me:
For sair contention I maun bear;
They hate, revile, and scorn me.
I ne'er could lend on bill or band,
That five per cent. might blest me;
And borrowing, on the tither hand,
The deil a ane wad trust me.
Yet I, a coin-denied wight,
By Fortune quite discarded;
Ye see how I am, day and night,
By lad and lass blackguarded!
A mother is a child
She is younger than her children
That is why she learns from them
She learns the value
Of overcoming sin
Temptation passes her by
Her Children are her mentors
She teaches them while
They teach her…… Perfect
A Mother loves her child
With her life ……. Nothing more
She is burdened by love
She cares, She loves
She’s our mother
We love her
A team of the greatest
A mother and her child
One can’t live without the other
They run a race
A relay
Her love powers her
She can over come
All things
Just dig a little deeper
They are the strongest
A mother and her child
Nothing can separate their bond
Emotions pay a truce
A battle can be mended
Strongly from their hearts
She follows a God
A being not be seen
And so does her child
Her child follows her
They make her feel the love
What more could we want
Theirs times that you’re not around.
Theirs times it seems like you don’t care.
Theirs times I don’t see or speak to you.
Theirs times I question you.
Theirs times I don’t even care.
Theirs times I even wish I didn’t know you.
But what would I be without you?
Would I be different or would I be the same?
Have you changed my life?
Or did I change it on my own?
Was I different before?
How come you want nothing to do with me?
You leave me in the dust whenever you have the chance.
Doesn’t seem like you care.
If you do care you have a funny way of showing it.
We use to be like best friends.
I grew up and you kicked me off to the side.
Or did I kick you off?
So many questions.
Not enough answers.
Not enough time to even ask all the questions.
My mind feels like it’s going to explode.
Not enough time in the day to even express my feelings.
Not enough time to share my thoughts.
It never seems to be the right time.
When is the right time?
Is it today or tomorrow?
When will you be there again for me?
You went away so quick I didn’t have a chance to say goodbye.
I guess drinking really got a hold of you.
Some have the will power and others don’t know how to say no.
How could you let drinking get to you?
When you have three kids.
Now two don’t even live with you.
Granted one of them is married.
But the other is still a young child.
Looks at you with disgrace.
You don’t even seem to notice.
While your family is breaking apart you just care about your glass filling up.
How do you live like that?
I know you’re not happy, so what’s bothering you?
You’ve been through a lot granted.
BUT SO HAVE I! !
Look what you’re doing to me.
What you think it doesn’t bother me?
It does but I guess that’s what blindness will do to you.
When will you notice me?
IM RIGHT HERE! !
Pick up the phone and call me sometimes.
Why do I always have to be the bigger person?
I’m supposed to be the kid.
When was I able to be a kid?
When will it be my time?
I’m always there for everyone else.
How come you can’t be there for me?
Your always trying to mess up what I accomplish.
Putting negative thoughts into my head constantly.
Do you want to see me fail?
Well I'm going to tell you right now IM NOT GOING TO FAIL! !
How come you hate me so much?
What did I do to you?
I was always the one that listened to how bad your day was?
I was the one who listened all the time
Who else was their for you?
Dad was always at work.
Sam was never home.
I was I was their.
But you don’t think about that now do you.
Since I left you don’t seem to need me anymore.
Now you have toked my friend to live with you.
But threaten her she will have to leave when she make’s a mistake.
How true are you?
You shad your tears about how much you miss me.
But do you really miss me?
Telling people lies after lies.
Why do you do what you do?
How come you act like that?
Can’t you go back to being yourself?
You’ve changed and I don’t like it.
To be honest not a lot of people like it.
But I guess whatever you want to do you will do.
But this is my time now.
Now you know how I feel.
So don’t ask me again.
Is she not lovely!  Oh! when, long ago,
My own dead mother gazed upon my face,
As I stood blushing near in bridal snow,
I had not half her beauty and her grace.
Yet that fond mother praised, the world caressed,
And ONE adored me -- how shall HE who soon
Shall wear my gentle flower upon his breast,
Prize to its utmost worth the priceless boon?
Shall he not gird her, guard her, make her rich,
(Not as the world is rich, in outward show,)
With all the love and watchful kindness which
A wise and tender manhood may bestow?
Oh! I shall part from her with many tears,
My earthly treasure, pure and undefiled!
And not without a weight of anxious fears
For the new future of my darling child.
And yet -- for well I know that virgin heart --
No wifely duty will she leave undone;
Nor will her love neglect that woman's art
Which courts and keeps a love already won.
In no light girlish levity she goes
Unto the altar where they wait her now,
But with a thoughtful, prayerful heart that knows
The solemn purport of a marriage vow.
And she will keep, with all her soul's deep truth,
The lightest pledge which binds her love and life;
And she will be -- no less in age than youth
My noble child will be -- a noble wife.
And he, her lover! husband! what of him?
Yes, he will shield, I think, my bud from blight!
Yet griefs will come -- enough! my eyes are dim
With tears I must not shed -- at least, to-night.
Bless thee, my daughter! --  Oh! she is so fair! --
Heaven bend above thee with its starriest skies!
And make thee truly all thou dost appear
Unto a lover's and thy mother's eyes!
A rose for my mother,
That's all she asks of me,
For a lifetime of trouble
She had raising me. A rose for my mother,
Whom God gave to me,
She spent her life raising children,
And we're all grateful as can be. So I bought a rose for mother,
That I gave to her, with pride,
And I said, I love you mother,
And I thank you for my life, And mother, if I had bought all the roses,
To give to you, from me,
There would be so many,
They would fill up a tree, But you, wouldn't want that many,
As you've often said to me,
One, would be a plenty,
If they came, from you to me.
At four years Nature is mountainous,
Mysterious, and submarine. Even
A city child knows this, hearing the subway's
Rumor underground. Between the grate,
Dropping his penny, he learned out all loss,
The irretrievable cent of fate,
And now this newest of the mysteries,
Confronts his honest and his studious eyes----
His mother much too fat and absentminded,
Gazing past his face, careless of him,
His fume, his charm, his bedtime, and warm milk,
As soon the night will be too dark, the spring
Too late, desire strange, and time too fast,
This estrangement is a gradual thing
(His mother once so svelte, so often sick!
Towering father did this: what a trick!)
Explained to cautiously, containing fear,
Another being's being, becoming dear:
All men are enemies: thus even brothers
Can separate each other from their mothers!
No better example than this unborn brother
Shall teach him of his exile from his mother,
Measured by his distance from the sky,
Spoken in two vowels,
I am I.
A young mother waits lonely,
But with war it didn’t start.
It began with a with a duty,
To country and heart.
With her husband at war,
Things are not as they seem.
Lonely days are without end,
Like its some kind of dream.
It seems even living,
Gets more difficult each day.
And in each daily letter.
Things are harder to say.
No more grand parades,
No excitement to bring.
Even so if there were,
It wouldn’t change a thing.
Alone with no husband,
No family and no friends,
Just another young mother,
Alone in the end.
1/31/05
Two knights surrounded by dinosaurs
are cornered in the kitchen--all threat and bluster.
Action figures always act
even as night tries to soothe them under.
I am the one who laid a nervous hand
on a child's exhausted threat and bluster.
The bunk bed creaks as the story settles,
as night's cool hand tries to soothe us. Under
a Seussian drone I am thinking, anxious,
about someone with a nervous hand.
Will he sleep? Will he sleep? When will he sleep?
The bunk bed creaks as the shipboard settles.
What is the myth of a woman alone
who's thinking through Seuss? Her thoughts are drones
serving a terrible queen of their own.
Can she sleep? Will she sleep? When will she sleep?
The toilet's crystalline drip and the ghosts
of the walls are a myth. And this woman, alone,
is a captain steering too close to the rocks
where the ocean is serving a terrible queen.
Up on the cliff of a Friday midnight
the toilet's crystalline drip and the ghost-
ly snore of the sleepy one riding his dragons
can steer this sad captain away from her rocks.
"Rock me to sleep," cries the wild girl at twenty
up on the cliff with a young man at midnight.
Far below, waves from the sea of Alaska
snore back and forth filled with moon's breath and dragon.
Up on the cliff of a Friday's midnight,
rock me to sleep with the sound that the fridge makes.
Warmth of a tub, hole of a drain.
Memories sleep in the seas of Alaska.
Action figures always act
upon the cliff of a Friday's midnight.
Warmth of a bird's heart. Chill of a stone.
Two knights surrendered. The dinos snore.
O mother-my-love, if you'll give me your hand,
And go where I ask you to wander,
I will lead you away to a beautiful land,-
The Dreamland that's waiting out yonder.
We'll walk in a sweet posie-garden out there,
Where moonlight and starlight are streaming,
And the flowers and the birds are filling the air
With the fragrance and music of dreaming.
There'll be no little tired-out boy to undress,
No questions or cares to perplex you,
There'll be no little bruises or bumps to caress,
Nor patching of stockings to vex you;
For I'll rock you away on a silver-dew stream
And sing you asleep when you're weary,
And no one shall know of our beautiful dream
But you and your own little dearie.
And when I am tired I'll nestle my head
In the bosom that's soothed me so often,
And the wide-awake stars shall sing, in my stead,
A song which our dreaming shall soften.
So, Mother-my-Love, let me take your dear hand,
And away through the starlight we'll wander,-
Away through the mist to the beautiful land,-
The Dreamland that's waiting out yonder.
The old woman sits on a bench before the door and quarrels
With her meagre pale demoralized daughter.
Once when I passed I found her alone, laughing in the sun
And saying that when she was first married
She lived in the old farmhouse up Garapatas Canyon.
(It is empty now, the roof has fallen
But the log walls hang on the stone foundation; the redwoods
Have all been cut down, the oaks are standing;
The place is now more solitary than ever before.)
'When I was nursing my second baby
My husband found a day-old fawn hid in a fern-brake
And brought it; I put its mouth to the breast
Rather than let it starve, I had milk enough for three babies.
Hey how it sucked, the little nuzzler,
Digging its little hoofs like quills into my stomach.
I had more joy from that than from the others.'
Her face is deformed with age, furrowed like a bad road
With market-wagons, mean cares and decay.
She is thrown up to the surface of things, a cell of dry skin
Soon to be shed from the earth's old eye-brows,
I see that once in her spring she lived in the streaming arteries,
The stir of the world, the music of the mountain.
What will I write to her this year?
About the childhood I remember?
Wait for the poem to appear
in local papers in December?
'If you still have a mother, Sir..',
then I could add some 'thorny roses',
a 'tiny bug that smiles for her',
'a boy, in Lederhosen poses? '
Yes, memories are never far,
they do not ever fade or die,
something has left a tiny scar
and, like a hiccup, comes a sigh.
A rosebush stands, with patience, waiting
for life to take itself in stride,
as petals grow to honour mating
and thorns are always by her side.
Now, as she bears the signs of age
her hand still rests upon your heart,
the eve of life, that final stage,
it's more a science than an art.
A thread, made strong from hemp, does grow
from childhood to advancing years.
It binds together (you may know)
you and your mother - love and tears.
The cub is slain by human greed,
its mother grieves in sheer despair.
The fur fulfills a selfish need,
about the mother, they don't care.
A child, still young and full of steam
falls ill and dies, a message comes
to tell her all inside a dream
she wakes, and, nervously, she hums.
A mother, let me tell you, friend,
will carry burdens, sure to break
the strongest man and to the end
she will be there when you awake.
In the first dawn she lifted from her bed
The holy silver of her noble head,
And listened, listened, listened for his tread.
'Too soon, too soon !' she murmured, 'Yet I'll keep
My vigil longer­ thou, O tender Sleep,
Art but the joy of those who wake and weep!
'Joy's self hath keen, wide eyes. O flesh of mine,
And mine own blood and bone, the very wine
Of my aged heart, I see thy dear eyes shine!
'I hear thy tread; thy light, loved footsteps run
Along the way, eager for that 'Well done !'
We'll weep and kiss to thee, my soldier son!
'Blest mother I­ he lives! Yet had he died
Blest were I still, ­ I sent him on the tide
Of my full heart to save his nation's pride!'
'O God, if that I tremble so to-day,
Bowed with such blessings that I cannot pray
By speech­ a mother prays, dear Lord, alway
'In some far fibre of her trembling mind!
I'll up­ I thought I heard a bugle bind
Its silver with the silver of the wind. '
She begins, and my grandmother joins her.
Mother and daughter sing like young girls.
If my father were alive, he would play
his accordion and sway like a boat.
I've never been in Peking, or the Summer Palace,
nor stood on the great Stone Boat to watch
the rain begin on Kuen Ming Lake, the picnickers
running away in the grass.
But I love to hear it sung;
how the waterlilies fill with rain until
they overturn, spilling water into water,
then rock back, and fill with more,
Both women have begun to cry.
But neither stops her song.
There's candy
Icecream
Chocalate
Good dreams
And I like my Mother!
Mothers are sweet
Mothers are nice
They help you
Give you good advice
And they make you cookies!
I like my Mother!
I like my Mother!
I like my Mother!
I Like my Mother!
I really
Like
My Mother!
Theres Uncles
Cousins
Sisters
Brothers
Fathe rs
And I like my Mother!
And I pray God
You'll let my Mother live a thousand years
So I don't have to get a job or do anything
And I can just live with my mother!
I like my Mother!
I like my Mother!
I like my Mother!
I like my Mother!
I really
Like
My Mother!
I do not think of you lying in the wet clay
Of a Monaghan graveyard; I see
You walking down a lane among the poplars
On your way to the station, or happily
Going to second Mass on a summer Sunday -
You meet me and you say:
'Don't forget to see about the cattle - '
Among your earthiest words the angels stray.
And I think of you walking along a headland
Of green oats in June,
So full of repose, so rich with life -
And I see us meeting at the end of a town
On a fair day by accident, after
The bargains are all made and we can walk
Together through the shops and stalls and markets
Free in the oriental streets of thought.
O you are not lying in the wet clay,
For it is a harvest evening now and we
Are piling up the ricks against the moonlight
And you smile up at us - eternally.
In Roman times, when swords were raised,
And peace on Earth was rare,
There lived a girl now highly praised,
A girl beyond compare...
Her name was Mary, Joseph's love,
Betrothed, untouched by Man...
Who met an angel from above
Who then revealed God's plan!
'Young maiden, you are full of grace!
The Lord chose you of all!
You shall conceive and then embrace
The child that God must call!
He shall be king and rightly so,
Begotten of the Lord!
And blessed is he, God's Son to know...
So, Mary, be assured! '
God's Son was born as prophesied!
To Mary, here on Earth...
In time, she saw Him crucified!
Esteemed not for His worth!
Her heart was broken just like His!
She held his mortal frame!
And neath her tears, a final kiss
As she whispered His name...
Her heart was numbed just like her soul...
With trembling hands she prayed...
Although she knew God kept control,
Her spirit was dismayed!
With trembling lips she sought His peace,
Like none on Earth before!
In hopes her faith would thus release
A miracle and more!
When Jesus left His tomb of death,
The sun was rising, too...
The Saviour savoured God's new breath
And knew what He must do...
'With God, all things are possible!
Forgiveness, born of faith! '
Such is the Gospel preached by Paul
To those whom God would save...
You've been the greatest mother to me
Teaching me many things that others never see
And so I write to you this very day
That The Lord may bless you in every way
Through the years of heartbreak and toil
You've always been there for this boy who you spoil
And now I'm a man whom you trained in the past
Though sometimes I may tell you to 'just kiss my ass'
Anyway I just wanted to say
Thank you my mother for starting me on His Way
For without your teaching I'd be lost today
But because of you and God by my side
Maybe I will find the bravery inside
The strength to withstand every personal attack
That mine enemies throw at me and I might just lack
And so to you the 'world's best Mom'
I'll remember you always as I drop this bomb! ! !
Thank you, I love you Mom
Love, Your first born son
Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom Mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother mother
This is the last of all, this is the last!
I must hold my hands, and turn my face to the fire,
I must watch my dead days fusing together in dross,
Shape after shape, and scene after scene from my past
Fusing to one dead mass in the sinking fire
Where the ash on the dying coals grows swiftly, like heavy moss.
Strange he is, my son, whom I have awaited like a loyer,
Strange to me like a captive in a foreign country, haunting
The confines and gazing out on the land where the wind is free;
White and gaunt, with wistful eyes that hover
Always on the distance, as if his soul were chaunting
The monotonous weird of departure away from me.
Like a strange white bird blown out of the frozen seas,
Like a bird from the far north blown with a broken wing
Into our sooty garden, he drags and beats
From place to place perpetually, seeking release
From me, from the hand of my love which creeps up, needing
His happiness, whilst he in displeasure retreats.
I must look away from him, for my faded eyes
Like a cringing dog at his heels offend him now,
Like a toothless hound pursuing him with my will,
Till he chafes at my crouching persistence, and a sharp spark flies
In my soul from under the sudden frown of his brow,
As he blenches and turns away, and my heart stands still.
This is the last, it will not be any more.
All my life I have borne the burden of myself,
All the long years of sitting in my husband’s house,
Never have I said to myself as he closed the door:
“Now I am caught! —You are hopelessly lost, O Self,
You are frightened with joy, my heart, like a frightened mouse.”
Three times have I offered myself, three times rejected.
It will not be any more. No more, my son, my son!
Never to know the glad freedom of obedience, since long ago
The angel of childhood kissed me and went. I expected
Another would take me,—and now, my son, O my son,
I must sit awhile and wait, and never know
The loss of myself, till death comes, who cannot fail.
Death, in whose service is nothing of gladness, takes me:
For the lips and the eyes of God are behind a veil.
And the thought of the lipless voice of the Father shakes me
With fear, and fills my eyes with the tears of desire,
And my heart rebels with anguish as night draws nigher.
Mother, among the dustbins and the manure
I feel the measure of my humanity, an allure
As of the presence of God, I am sure
In the dustbins, in the manure, in the cat at play,
Is the presence of God, in a sure way
He moves there. Mother, what do you say?
I too have felt the presence of God in the broom
I hold, in the cobwebs in the room,
But most of all in the silence of the tomb.
Ah! but that thought that informs the hope of our kind
Is but an empty thing, what lies behind? --
Naught but the vanity of a protesting mind
That would not die. This is the thought that bounces
Within a conceited head and trounces
Inquiry. Man is most frivolous when he pronounces.
Well Mother, I shall continue to think as I do,
And I think you would be wise to do so too,
Can you question the folly of man in the creation of God?
Who are you?
I SEE the sleeping babe, nestling the breast of its mother;
The sleeping mother and babe- hush'd, I study them long and long.
One night a tiny dewdrop fell
Into the bosom of a rose,--
"Dear little one, I love thee well,
Be ever here thy sweet repose!"
Seeing the rose with love bedight,
The envious sky frowned dark, and then
Sent forth a messenger of light
And caught the dewdrop up again.
"Oh, give me back my heavenly child,--
My love!" the rose in anguish cried;
Alas! the sky triumphant smiled,
And so the flower, heart-broken, died.
I.
Dead ! One of them shot by the sea in the east,
And one of them shot in the west by the sea.
Dead ! both my boys ! When you sit at the feast
And are wanting a great song for Italy free,
Let none look at me !
II.
Yet I was a poetess only last year,
And good at my art, for a woman, men said ;
But this woman, this, who is agonized here,
-- The east sea and west sea rhyme on in her head
For ever instead.
III.
What art can a woman be good at ? Oh, vain !
What art is she good at, but hurting her breast
With the milk-teeth of babes, and a smile at the pain ?
Ah boys, how you hurt ! you were strong as you pressed,
And I proud, by that test.
IV.
What art's for a woman ? To hold on her knees
Both darlings ! to feel all their arms round her throat,
Cling, strangle a little ! to sew by degrees
And 'broider the long-clothes and neat little coat ;
To dream and to doat.
V.
To teach them ... It stings there ! I made them indeed
Speak plain the word country. I taught them, no doubt,
That a country's a thing men should die for at need.
I prated of liberty, rights, and about
The tyrant cast out.
VI.
And when their eyes flashed ... O my beautiful eyes ! ...
I exulted ; nay, let them go forth at the wheels
Of the guns, and denied not. But then the surprise
When one sits quite alone ! Then one weeps, then one kneels !
God, how the house feels !
VII.
At first, happy news came, in gay letters moiled
With my kisses, -- of camp-life and glory, and how
They both loved me ; and, soon coming home to be spoiled
In return would fan off every fly from my brow
With their green laurel-bough.
VIII.
Then was triumph at Turin : `Ancona was free !'
And some one came out of the cheers in the street,
With a face pale as stone, to say something to me.
My Guido was dead ! I fell down at his feet,
While they cheered in the street.
IX.
I bore it ; friends soothed me ; my grief looked sublime
As the ransom of Italy. One boy remained
To be leant on and walked with, recalling the time
When the first grew immortal, while both of us strained
To the height he had gained.
X.
And letters still came, shorter, sadder, more strong,
Writ now but in one hand, `I was not to faint, --
One loved me for two -- would be with me ere long :
And Viva l' Italia ! -- he died for, our saint,
Who forbids our complaint."
XI.
My Nanni would add, `he was safe, and aware
Of a presence that turned off the balls, -- was imprest
It was Guido himself, who knew what I could bear,
And how 'twas impossible, quite dispossessed,
To live on for the rest."
XII.
On which, without pause, up the telegraph line
Swept smoothly the next news from Gaeta : -- Shot.
Tell his mother. Ah, ah, ` his, ' ` their ' mother, -- not ` mine, '
No voice says "My mother" again to me. What !
You think Guido forgot ?
XIII.
Are souls straight so happy that, dizzy with Heaven,
They drop earth's affections, conceive not of woe ?
I think not. Themselves were too lately forgiven
Through THAT Love and Sorrow which reconciled so
The Above and Below.
XIV.
O Christ of the five wounds, who look'dst through the dark
To the face of Thy mother ! consider, I pray,
How we common mothers stand desolate, mark,
Whose sons, not being Christs, die with eyes turned away,
And no last word to say !
XV.
Both boys dead ? but that's out of nature. We all
Have been patriots, yet each house must always keep one.
'Twere imbecile, hewing out roads to a wall ;
And, when Italy 's made, for what end is it done
If we have not a son ?
XVI.
Ah, ah, ah ! when Gaeta's taken, what then ?
When the fair wicked queen sits no more at her sport
Of the fire-balls of death crashing souls out of men ?
When the guns of Cavalli with final retort
Have cut the game short ?
XVII.
When Venice and Rome keep their new jubilee,
When your flag takes all heaven for its white, green, and red,
When you have your country from mountain to sea,
When King Victor has Italy's crown on his head,
(And I have my Dead) --
XVIII.
What then ? Do not mock me. Ah, ring your bells low,
And burn your lights faintly ! My country is there,
Above the star pricked by the last peak of snow :
My Italy 's THERE, with my brave civic Pair,
To disfranchise despair !
XIX.
Forgive me. Some women bear children in strength,
And bite back the cry of their pain in self-scorn ;
But the birth-pangs of nations will wring us at length
Into wail such as this -- and we sit on forlorn
When the man-child is born.
XX.
Dead ! One of them shot by the sea in the east,
And one of them shot in the west by the sea.
Both ! both my boys ! If in keeping the feast
You want a great song for your Italy free,
Let none look at me !
[This was Laura Savio, of Turin, a poetess and patriot, whose sonswere killed at Ancona and Gaeta.]
(EGYPTIAN FOLK-SONG)
Grim is the face that looks into the night
Over the stretch of sands;
A sullen rock in a sea of white--
A ghostly shadow in ghostly light,
Peering and moaning it stands.
"Oh, is it the king that rides this way--
Oh, is it the king that rides so free?
I have looked for the king this many a day,
But the years that mock me will not say
Why tarrieth he!"
'T is not your king that shall ride to-night,
But a child that is fast asleep;
And the horse he shall ride is the Dream-horse white--
Aha, he shall speed through the ghostly light
Where the ghostly shadows creep!
"My eyes are dull and my face is sere,
Yet unto the word he gave I cling,
For he was a Pharaoh that set me here--
And, lo! I have waited this many a year
For him--my king!"
Oh, past thy face my darling shall ride
Swift as the burning winds that bear
The sand clouds over the desert wide--
Swift to the verdure and palms beside
The wells off there!
"And is it the mighty king I shall see
Come riding into the night?
Oh, is it the king come back to me--
Proudly and fiercely rideth he,
With centuries dight!"
I know no king but my dark-eyed dear
That shall ride the Dream-Horse white;
But see! he wakes at my bosom here,
While the Dream-Horse frettingly lingers near
To speed with my babe to-night!
And out of the desert darkness peers
A ghostly, ghastly, shadowy thing
Like a spirit come out of the mouldering years,
And ever that waiting spectre hears
The coming king!
Sil.
O Cupid ! Monarch ouer Kings,
Wherefore hast thou feete and wings?
It is to shew how swift thou art,
When thou wound'st a tender heart:
Thy wings being clip'd, and feete held still,
Thy Bow so many could not kill.
Acc.
It is all one in Venus wanton schoole,
Who highest sits, the wise man or the foole:
Fooles in loues colledge
Haue farre more knowledge,
To reade a woman ouer,
Than a neate prating louer.
Nay, tis confest,
That fooles please women best.
Among the daisies
sat the child,
looking so ever
meek and mild.
Mother sat down
by the child,
looked at her daughter
and sweetly smiled.
Picking the daisies
with the child,
from those gathered
a chain was stylized.
Around the neck
of the child,
she placed the chain
of daisies wild.
Touching the daisies
the deaf child,
looked at her mother
and sweetly smiled.
~  Mother Dear, O Mother Dear
Mother dear, oh Mother dear, were you ever young?
How felt you on the day when love had just begun?
Did tulips drip from every branch and joy obscure the sun?
Did secret smiles once mold your hopes
Where lines of care and dread are ropes
That tell of bitter loss instead,
The smiles forgotten now and fled?
Like me, were you once mesmerized
Of blissfilled future, sunny skies,
Then saw the storm clouds gather round,
Felt the darkness, heard the sound
Of lighting charring all your dreams,
Each betrayal worse than last it seems?
Through heavy days and heavy thoughts,
Each step mechanically has brought
You to this day where now you live,
Those dreams forgotten, for it is
That dreams are fairy-castles built
And meant to evaporate and wilt.
Then, as you held each fragile child,
Did ghosts of dreams bring back a smile?
Forgotten dreams, once more reborn,
To die again before the dawn-
Unmourned, unnoticed, as time moved on,
Interred within your heart's sad song?
Mother dear, oh Mother dear, were we ever young?
Mother doesn't want a dog.
Mother says they smell,
And never sit when you say sit,
Or even when you yell.
And when you come home late at night
And there is ice and snow,
You have to go back out because
The dumb dog has to go.
Mother doesn't want a dog.
Mother says they shed,
And always let the strangers in
And bark at friends instead,
And do disgraceful things on rugs,
And track mud on the floor,
And flop upon your bed at night
And snore their doggy snore.
Mother doesn't want a dog.
She's making a mistake.
Because, more than a dog, I think
She will not want this snake.
Mother Earth and Father Time are walking hand in hand.
They're visiting their children and checking on their land.
They view the worlds destruction everywhere they turn.
They fear their precious children are never going to learn.
''This earth should be their playground with joys beyond belief
yet, all these children seem to know is senseless pain and grief.''
''How do we teach our children to care for such a place?
They may not get the message till we slap them in their face.''
The children are oblivious to even basic rules.
That's why so many people grow up looking like such fools.
Mother of all the high-strung poets and singers departed,
Mother of all the grass that weaves over their graves the glory of the field,
Mother of all the manifold forms of life, deep-bosomed, patient, impassive,
Silent brooder and nurse of lyrical joys and sorrows!
Out of thee, yea, surely out of the fertile depth below thy breast,
Issued in some strange way, thou lying motionless, voiceless,
All these songs of nature, rhythmical, passionate, yearning,
Coming in music from earth, but not unto earth returning.
Dust are the blood-red hearts that beat in time to these measures,
Thou hast taken them back to thyself, secretly, irresistibly
Drawing the crimson currents of life down, down, down
Deep into thy bosom again, as a river is lost in the sand.
But the souls of the singers have entered into the songs that revealed them, -
Passionate songs, immortal songs of joy and grief and love and longing:
Floating from heart to heart of thy children, they echo above thee:
Do they not utter thy heart, the voices of those that love thee?
Long hadst thou lain like a queen transformed by some old enchantment
Into an alien shape, mysterious, beautiful, speechless,
Knowing not who thou wert, till the touch of thy Lord and Lover
Working within thee awakened the man-child to breathe thy secret.
All of thy flowers and birds and forests and flowing waters
Are but enchanted forms to embody the life of the spirit;
Thou thyself, earth-mother, in mountain and meadow and ocean,
Holdest the poem of God, eternal thought and emotion.
MOTHER, I cannot mind my wheel;
My fingers ache, my lips are dry:
O, if you felt the pain I feel!
But O, who ever felt as I?
No longer could I doubt him true-
All other men may use deceit;
He always said my eyes were blue,
And often swore my lips were sweet.
I never made a poem, dear friend-
I never sat me down, and said,
This cunning brain and patient hand
Shall fashion something to be read.
Men often came to me, and prayed
I should indite a fitting verse
For fast, or festival, or in
Some stately pageant to rehearse.
(As if, than Balaam more endowed,
I of myself could bless or curse.)
Reluctantly I bade them go,
Ungladdened by my poet-mite;
My heart is not so churlish but
Its loves to minister delight.
But not a word I breathe is mine
To sing, in praise of man or God;
My Master calls, at noon or night,
I know his whisper and his nod.
Yet all my thoyghts to rhythms run,
To rhyme, my wisdom and my wit?
True, I consume my life in verse,
But wouldst thou know how that is writ?
'T is thus- through weary length of days,
I bear a thought within my breast
That greatens from my growth of soul,
And waits, and will not be expressed.
It greatens, till its hour has come,
Not without pain, it sees the light;
'Twixt smiles and tears I view it o'er,
And dare not deem it perfect, quite.
These children of my soul I keep
Where scarce a mortal man may see,
Yet not unconsecrate, dear friend,
Baptismal rites they claim of thee.
MOTHER
(mother' day 2020)
Love is the deepest universe,
The deepest wire of feelings,
unfathomably deep silence,
Love is gratitude and untold,
No one can express it with voice.
Mother is our real world,
The umbrella over our life,
The root of our existence,
Once mother is no more
The world shrinks into naught.
Mother is beyond attribute,
No word can measure the heart
Of a mother and it's fragrance,
Mother is divine in human form,
Mother is heaven and beyond.
There is nothing like mother-like,
There can never be an alternative,
All the holy rivers around the world
blow beneath the feet
of a mother, the whole sky too,
Mother is the seed of existence,
Nay; really the existence itself.
The divine from timeless existence
comes into being only to enjoy
the sweetness of Love
Care and sanctity of a mother,
Mother is higher than Divine too.
Father, mother and God are synonymous,
When father is a moving star,
mother is a calm mountain,
With infinite space beyond thought,
A mother is the salt of the earth,
Nay; the earth that expands every moment,
A mother is sweeter than God Himself.
Selfless; weightless a mother is,
a mother is a supreme warrior,
The struggle of life is nothing to her,
She can do anything for her little one,
For a better life for her children
She can die a thousand times,
A mother is a living God with aura of love
and unusual sacrifice.
Love to mother is love to Almighty,
The smile of a mother is everywhere,
In the face of the rising and setting Sun,
The dark sky and the shinning Moon,
In the dewdrop and the tip of grass,
In the foggy morning and pensive evening,
From the earth to twinkling stars,
The milky ways and blue expanses,
A mother is finite and infinite
for her Love bottomless and abysmal,
Absolute manifestation of Absolute.
Every scripture be like
Bible or Gita,
Koran or Tao, Buddhism or
Jainism does proclaim the gospel
Of Love in the serene soul of a mother,
Mother's Love is like
the coldness Of the forest,
Flowing like the stream,
Strong like mountain peak,
Vast like endless sky.
A Mother is a mountain
Full of wild flowers and plants,
In sheer poorness She becomes
the daughter of the earth
and with rarity of being
she practices sternness.
The deepest part of life force,
The absolute form of austerity,
A mother is a mother
with prodigious intelligence,
From micro to macro She lives
as subtle source of luster,
A mother is the coolness of the ocean,
Flood or famine she stands like
Cold image of Nature,
Equilibrium of divine forces.
A mother is the tranquil spirit of nature,
With deep power of Sufferance
She gives birth her child and with deep Immolation
She makes her life square and complete,
Slowly and steadily she becomes
the setting sun with dim delight,
A mother is beyond logic and reason,
a profound stillness in a deep oceanic vastness.
In the soft shadow of Love
A son or a daughter finds the soothing
song of painless Joy,
A mother is like April shower in hot summer day,
A soft summer in deluge,
Spring in serve winter,
A monsoon with refreshing breeze,
Calm and serene Autumn is strong gush of Wind,
Storm comes and goes and
Mother guards her offsprings with
Calm mood of mellow smile.
The giver of light and truth,
The giver of black night and stars,
The days with stunning views
and beauty of Silent stream of Joy,
The night with supernal luminosity,
The destroy of evil with pure light
of knowledge and wisdom,
A mother is a soothing Joy,
The world of peace and prosperity,
Poor or rich a mother has no division,
The sun the moon and the numerous stars
are the ornaments of Mother,
Incomparable is the world of things and spirit,
Without mother one has no world to live
and no hope for liberation,
Love and devotion to mother
is the ultimate route to Almighty,
A mother is God in disguise.
@prabir Gayen:
11 May,2020,1: 14 AM.
There is but one Mother, My Mother;
So Pure, so Perfect, there could be no other.
I cannot bear the thought of ever losing you,
For all, and I mean All, that you do.
You are so Essential to my life;
Stand by to Calm all my Strife;
To this End, you make every Sacrifice;
There is no one else So Beautiful, So Nice.
All the Archangels will Never reach your Height,
For here on earth, all the Battles you do Fight.
You are always, I repeat Always at my side;
You are forever present as my guide.
The Rose is only a Beauty, just a Glimmer
Of the Magnificence of your inner Core.
The thorns on your otherwise fragile Stalk
Represent the Hurt that you so often Balk.
You are my Mom; You gave me the World
And as the Years go by, I too grow old;
I know your Sacrifices, to Assure that I am well;
My Love and Appreciation, no words could ever tell.
Often I marvel at Mother Nature
And its unique adventures
It has in stock for us
I have to say Mother Nature is the boss
Everyone has DNA-like life experience
Sometimes it can be monotonously intense
But Mother Nature is supreme
And Mother Nature is extreme
Often I ponder on why Mother Nature
Is sporadically insane with jealousy
Committing many a time unspeakable atrocities
Tornados, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions
It showers, making its necessary modifications
Tidal waves are its trademark of destruction
Of natural and artificial creations
But Mother Nature always makes up
With multiplication and replication of the living!
How do I tell you, from this daughter
Oh mother of mine, who couldn't have worked harder
To make my life, as best as could be
How much your loved, for loving me
Things you wanted, so many times
You put aside, to help me and mine
Even when I was growing up
A back you never turned, a door you never shut
How do I tell you, how much this means
Oh mother of mine, who always beams
With a loving heart, with open arms
Caring for all, with all your charms
You made life, so very good
For me you did, all you could
You cared for me, through all bad times
Your loved so much, oh mother of mine
Mother! oh mother!
Where are your children?
Where have they been?
Where have they lost?
Mother! oh mother
Am on you
Yet can't see you
Is you don't like me
Or you don't like us
Mother! your children
Some on edges
Many at peaks
Why are all not equal
Are all not your children?
Maa I understand you
You have lost your children
You are been polluted all over
Maa my mother
Please batter your creation
Batter and make it new
This is a humble request
From one of your children.
If I were hanged on the highest hill,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
I know whose love would follow me still,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
If I were drowned in the deepest sea,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
I know whose tears would come down to me,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
If I were damned of body and soul,
I know whose prayers would make me whole,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!
महतारी ओ महतारी
अपने शिशु पर बलिहारी
बालक अपनी महतारी के
जीवन की है फुलवारी
महतारी ओ महतारी
महतारी ओ महतारी
जाये लाल पे अपने वारी
देख देख उसकी मुस्काने
खुद को भूली बेचारी
महतारी ओ महतारी
महतारी ओ महतारी
सुन बालक की किलकारी
बिसर गयी है सुध-बुध जैसे
दुनिया लागे है प्यारी
महतारी ओ महतारी
You were the center of our universe
The mother of us all
You gave to us your everything
We only need to call
And soon your strength was tested
Though you put up such a fight
For from a distant spiritual land
The angels called you in the night
For someone up in heaven
Looked down upon the land
And chose mom  for her strength
To come and give a hand
He knew that her legacy
That she had left behind
Would withstand the pain and grief
Over a period of time
For she had fulfilled his prophesy
Spreading love, honor, and hope
She instilled in those she left behind
The ability to understand and cope
Well, son, I'll tell you:
Life for me ain't been no crystal stair.
It's had tacks in it,
And splinters,
And boards torn up,
And places with no carpet on the floor—
Bare.
But all the time
I'se been a-climbin' on,
And reachin' landin's,
And turnin' corners,
And sometimes goin' in the dark
Where there ain't been no light.
So, boy, don't you turn back.
Don't you set down on the steps.
'Cause you finds it's kinder hard.
Don't you fall now—
For I'se still goin', honey,
I'se still climbin',
And life for me ain't been no crystal stair.
MOTHER, YOU ARE ONLY MOTHER
Mother, you are only mother,
because of you,
i got thoughts and rituals,
because of you,
i got my face, my existence and my prestige,
mother, you are neither goddess nor god,
mother, you are not away from these,
mother, you are my soul,
you are within me,
mother, you aren`t a materialistic thing,
you are omnipresent earth,
you are a firm foundation,
mother, you are away from words,
mother, you are life
There’s something inside me at last
For a long time there was nothing
I gaze at the reflection of my baby’s mother in the mirror
She raises her glass, drinks
And turns away
Pragmatism wins over introspection
Her glass is empty
She already loves her baby more than she has ever loved herself –
But will that be enough?
For him? For her?
She imagines how he will look when he is born
How she will dress him
What sort of man he will become
And knows he will be more than she ever was
Because she will love him
More than her mother ever could
She won’t make those mistakes
Did her mother feel this way?
Think these things,
Love her baby this much?
She doubts it
And touches her tummy
Her baby kicks
More rejection
She turns away from the mirror
And pours another drink
She knew
all I was hoping for
was a little time with you all.
She knew
if the day was bright and sunny
he would be out riding his bike
and the girls would be busy soaking up the sun.
You would inevitably have work to do
whether it was changing the spark plugs
on one of our half-dead vehicles
or mending the fence
to keep our squirrel-crazy bassett hound from escaping.
She knew
I would probably plant flowers by myself.
I love planting flowers
but, I can do that anyday.
Today I wanted to spend with those
who have made me a mother.
She knew
if she dropped the temperature
down into the 40's
you would all surely
seek the warmth of the house.
She knew
that a light drizzle
of ice-cold rain
would ensure your company
throughout the day.
As I curl up on the couch
with all of you surrounding me
and I listen to the predictable bickering
over the popcorn bowl,
I silently thank her
for giving me the gift I wanted most
for Mothers Day.
My family.
I'm glad she knows me so well.
Thank you Mother Nature.
Happy Mothers Day!
My mother is an alien.
This is true,
However what does this make me do,
Who am I, What will I be?
That is what I have been wondering?
She was so proud when I was born,
I was barely alive,
When my first cries could be heard,
Now, as I complete this assignment
We call life,
I look back,
And wonder what might have been,
If mother had stayed on her planet!
What would I if I were living there,
Would I be different, would I be covered in hair?
At this point, I'm certain,
I'm better than most,
My mother came a long ways to have,
I knew that she cared.
That is much more than many mothers today,
They all day and stay aloof,
They don't read and write or tuck their children into bed,
Why bother they say,
The government is going to take of them any old way,
I'm here to say that I'm living proof,
I'm product of a marriage made in heaven,
and a father who worked at the 7-11
My mother, my dear mother, oh!
You love me more than me!
Are such rhymes rather cheap today?
I write them heartily.
How I wish I could ever be
Just crying like a babe
Upon your arms with pain untold
But you would not mistake.
But since today I’ve been a man
I’ve more to live and run.
I’ve loved as much to all I can
But you’re my dearest one.
My mother, my dear mother, oh!
You love me more than me!
Are such rhymes rather cheap today?
I write them heartily.
My Mother
She is restless in her sleep
her fingers are moving
her forehead has the customary strain of field and food
muttering to herself
she is carrying on
with the unfinished tasks
she knows no sleep or rest
she is a perenial 'karamyogi',
the tireless worker on the earth
I
Reg wished me to go with him to the field,
I paused because I did not want to go;
But in her quiet way she made me yield
Reluctantly, for she was breathing low.
Her hand she slowly lifted from her lap
And, smiling sadly in the old sweet way,
She pointed to the nail where hung my cap.
Her eyes said: I shall last another day.
But scarcely had we reached the distant place,
When o'er the hills we heard a faint bell ringing;
A boy came running up with frightened face;
We knew the fatal news that he was bringing.
I heard him listlessly, without a moan,
Although the only one I loved was gone.
II
The dawn departs, the morning is begun,
The trades come whispering from off the seas,
The fields of corn are golden in the sun,
The dark-brown tassels fluttering in the breeze;
The bell is sounding and the children pass,
Frog-leaping, skipping, shouting, laughing shrill,
Down the red road, over the pasture-grass,
Up to the school-house crumbling on the hill.
The older folk are at their peaceful toil,
Some pulling up the weeds, some plucking corn,
And others breaking up the sun-baked soil.
Float, faintly-scented breeze, at early morn
Over the earth where mortals sow and reap--
Beneath its breast my mother lies asleep.
God made my mother on an April day,
From sorrow and the mist along the sea,
Lost birds' and wanderers' songs and ocean spray,
And the moon loved her wandering jealously.
Beside the ocean's din she combed her hair,
Singing the nocturne of the passing ships,
Before her earthly lover found her there
And kissed away the music from her lips.
She came unto the hills and saw the change
That brings the swallow and the geese in turns.
But there was not a grief she deeméd strange,
For there is that in her which always mourns.
Kind heart she has for all on hill or wave
Whose hopes grew wings like ants to fly away.
I bless the God Who such a mother gave
This poor bird-hearted singer of a day.
My mother was fortune, my father generosity and bounty; I
am joy, son of joy, son of joy, son of joy.
Behold, the Marquis of Glee has attainted felicity; this city and
plain are filled with soldiers and drums and flags.
If I encounter a wolf, he becomes moonfaced Joseph; if I go
down into a well, it converts into a Garden of Eram.
He whose heart is as iron and stone out of miserliness is now
changed before me into a Hatem of the age in generosity and
bounty.
Dust becomes gold and pure silver in my hand; how then
should the temptation of gold and silver waylay me?
I have an idol such that, were his sweet scent scattered
abroad, even an idol of stone would receive life through joy.
Sorrow has died for joy in him of “may God bind your consolation”;
how should not such a sword strike the neck of sorrow?
By tyranny he seizes the soul of whom he desires; justices are
all slaves of such injustice and tyranny.
What is that mole on that face? Should it manifest itself, out
of desire for it forthwith maternal aunt would be estranged from
paternal [uncle].
I said, “If I am done and send my story, will you finish it and
expound it?” He answered, “Yes.”
My mother would be a falconress,
And I, her gay falcon treading her wrist,
would fly to bring back
from the blue of the sky to her, bleeding, a prize,
where I dream in my little hood with many bells
jangling when I'd turn my head.
My mother would be a falconress,
and she sends me as far as her will goes.
She lets me ride to the end of her curb
where I fall back in anguish.
I dread that she will cast me away,
for I fall, I mis-take, I fail in her mission.
She would bring down the little birds.
And I would bring down the little birds.
When will she let me bring down the little birds,
pierced from their flight with their necks broken,
their heads like flowers limp from the stem?
I tread my mother's wrist and would draw blood.
Behind the little hood my eyes are hooded.
I have gone back into my hooded silence,
talking to myself and dropping off to sleep.
For she has muffled my dreams in the hood she has made me,
sewn round with bells, jangling when I move.
She rides with her little falcon upon her wrist.
She uses a barb that brings me to cower.
She sends me abroad to try my wings
and I come back to her. I would bring down
the little birds to her
I may not tear into, I must bring back perfectly.
I tear at her wrist with my beak to draw blood,
and her eye holds me, anguisht, terrifying.
She draws a limit to my flight.
Never beyond my sight, she says.
She trains me to fetch and to limit myself in fetching.
She rewards me with meat for my dinner.
But I must never eat what she sends me to bring her.
Yet it would have been beautiful, if she would have carried me,
always, in a little hood with the bells ringing,
at her wrist, and her riding
to the great falcon hunt, and me
flying up to the curb of my heart from her heart
to bring down the skylark from the blue to her feet,
straining, and then released for the flight.
My mother would be a falconress,
and I her gerfalcon raised at her will,
from her wrist sent flying, as if I were her own
pride, as if her pride
knew no limits, as if her mind
sought in me flight beyond the horizon.
Ah, but high, high in the air I flew.
And far, far beyond the curb of her will,
were the blue hills where the falcons nest.
And then I saw west to the dying sun-
it seemd my human soul went down in flames.
I tore at her wrist, at the hold she had for me,
until the blood ran hot and I heard her cry out,
far, far beyond the curb of her will
to horizons of stars beyond the ringing hills of the world where
the falcons nest
I saw, and I tore at her wrist with my savage beak.
I flew, as if sight flew from the anguish in her eye beyond her sight,
sent from my striking loose, from the cruel strike at her wrist,
striking out from the blood to be free of her.
My mother would be a falconress,
and even now, years after this,
when the wounds I left her had surely heald,
and the woman is dead,
her fierce eyes closed, and if her heart
were broken, it is stilld
I would be a falcon and go free.
I tread her wrist and wear the hood,
talking to myself, and would draw blood.
A mother is a mother,
Always caring,
Always protecting,
Always concerned for her baby,
Always holding and embracing her child.
The baby delights in her mother's care,
The baby thrills in her mother's caress,
The baby enjoys playing with her mother,
the baby trusts her mother implicitly,
The baby knows no God other than her mother.
Whether human or an animal,
Whether an elephant or a bird,
A mother is a mother!
A mother's heartbeat resonates along with her child,
A mother's love for her child is nature's purest gift.
When the morning sun rises in the sky
When the new day is born as beautiful
When the dew drops rolls down the leaves
When the garden of flowers hugs the nature
and shower its fragrance and makes nature proud
When the trees leaves oxygen for mankind
starts dancing to the tune of wind
When the birds sits on top of the trees and
singing to the nature's choir with happiness
When the fauna in the jungle sets free to live proudly
When the stream water gurgles from the mountain
and when wet earth makes barren land fertile
When the farmers glorify the nature with happiness
and start to cultivate food for the nations
When the sun sets behind the green mountains
and the moon start to light the nation
When the nature forgets its vastness
Then the God show his creation on his earth.
Nature the gentlest mother is,
Impatient of no child,
The feeblest of the waywardest.
Her admonition mild
In forest and the hill
By traveller be heard,
Restraining rampant squirrel
Or too impetuous bird.
How fair her conversation
A summer afternoon,
Her household her assembly;
And when the sun go down,
Her voice among the aisles
Incite the timid prayer
Of the minutest cricket,
The most unworthy flower.
When all the children sleep,
She turns as long away
As will suffice tolight her lamps,
Then bending from the sky
With infinite affection
An infiniter care,
Her golden finger on her lip,
Wills silence everywhere.
Nature, the gentlest mother,
Impatient of no child,
The feeblest or the waywardest,
Her admonition mild
In forest and the hill
By traveller is heard,
Restraining rampant squirrel
Or too impetuous bird.
How fair her conversation,
A summer afternoon,--
Her household, her assembly;
And when the sun goes down
Her voice among the aisles
Incites the timid prayer
Of the minutest cricket,
The most unworthy flower.
When all the children sleep
She turns as long away
As will suffice to light her lamps;
Then, bending from the sky
With infinite affection
And infiniter care,
Her golden finger on her lip,
Wills silence everywhere.
Her hair is sleek, burnt black in a strange disarray
Her lips who knows what lurks there- kisses stollen from innocence lost
where unseen serpents glide
She plays her divine game, a rolling of the bones the rattle of death's delay
She rides atop her nightmare down through life's eternal passage, to where?
No one way and yet all lead the same
none can hide
We fall and another will take our place free to decay
We are, we have, we live, we weep- all is to be gained, all are at loss,
It's all the same, it's all the same, It's all insane
It's all... Khaos.
Let others speak of her shame,
I speak of my own.
O Germany, pale mother!
How soiled you are
As you sit among the peoples.
You flaunt yourself
Among the besmirched.
The poorest of your sons
Lies struck down.
When his hunger was great.
Your other sons
Raised their hands against him.
This is notorious.
With their hands thus raised,
Raised against their brother,
They march insolently around you
And laugh in your face.
This is well known.
In your house
Lies are roared aloud.
But the truth
Must be silent.
Is it so?
Why do the oppressors praise you everywhere,
The oppressed accuse you?
The plundered
Point to you with their fingers, but
The plunderer praises the system
That was invented in your house!
Whereupon everyone sees you
Hiding the hem of your mantle which is bloody
With the blood
Of your best sons.
Hearing the harangues which echo from your house,
men laugh.
But whoever sees you reaches for a knife
As at the approach of a robber.
O Germany, pale mother!
How have your sons arrayed you
That you sit among the peoples
A thing of scorn and fear!
Old Mother Laidinwool had nigh twelve months been dead.
She heard the hops was doing well, an' so popped up her head
For said she: "The lads I've picked with when I was young and fair,
They're bound to be at hopping and I'm bound to meet 'em there!"
Let me up and go
Back to the work I know, Lord!
Back to the work I know, Lord!
For it is dark where I lie down, My Lord!
An' it's dark where I lie down!
Old Mother Laidinwool, she give her bones a shake,
An' trotted down the churchyard-path as fast as she could make.
She met the Parson walking, but she says to him, says she: --
"Oh, don't let no one trouble for a poor old ghost like me!"
'Twas all a warm September an' the hops had flourished grand.
She saw the folks get into 'em with stockin's on their hands--
An' none of 'em was foreigners but all which she had known,
And old Mother Laidinwool she blessed 'em every one.
She saw her daughters picking an' their children them-beside,
An' she mowed among the babies an' she stilled 'em when they cried.
She saw their clothes was bought, not begged, an' they was clean an' fat,
An' old Mother Laidinwool she thanked the Lord for that.
Old Mother Laidinwool she waited on all day
Until it come too dark to see an' people went away--
Until it was too dark to see an' lights began to show,
An' old Mother Laidinwool she hadn't where to go.
Old Mother Laidinwool she give her bones a shake
An 'trotted back to churchyard-mould as fast as she could make.
She went where she was bidden to an' there laid down her ghost, . . .
An' the Lord have mercy on you in the Day you need it most!
Let me in again,
Out of the wet an' rain, Lord!
Out of the wet an' rain, Lord!
For it's best as You shall say, My Lord!
An' it's best as You shall say!
(Note: — Pocahontas is buried at Gravesend, England.)
"Pocahontas' body, lovely as a poplar, sweet as a red haw in November or a pawpaw in May — did she wonder? does she remember — in the dust — in the cool tombs?"
CARL SANDBURG.
I
Powhatan was conqueror,
Powhatan was emperor.
He was akin to wolf and bee,
Brother of the hickory tree.
Son of the red lightning stroke
And the lightning-shivered oak.
His panther-grace bloomed in the maid
Who laughed among the winds and played
In excellence of savage pride,
Wooing the forest, open-eyed,
In the springtime,
In Virginia,
Our Mother, Pocahontas.
Her skin was rosy copper-red.
And high she held her beauteous head.
Her step was like a rustling leaf:
Her heart a nest, untouched of grief.
She dreamed of sons like Powhatan,
And through her blood the lightning ran.
Love-cries with the birds she sung,
Birdlike
In the grape-vine swung.
The Forest, arching low and wide
Gloried in its Indian bride.
Rolfe, that dim adventurer
Had not come a courtier.
John Rolfe is not our ancestor.
We rise from out the soul of her
Held in native wonderland,
While the sun's rays kissed her hand,
In the springtime,
In Virginia,
Our Mother, Pocahontas.
II
She heard the forest talking,
Across the sea came walking,
And traced the paths of Daniel Boone,
Then westward chased the painted moon.
She passed with wild young feet
On to Kansas wheat,
On to the miners' west,
The echoing cañons' guest,
Then the Pacific sand,
Waking,
Thrilling,
The midnight land....
On Adams street and Jefferson —
Flames coming up from the ground!
On Jackson street and Washington —
Flames coming up from the ground!
And why, until the dawning sun
Are flames coming up from the ground?
Because, through drowsy Springfield sped
This red-skin queen, with feathered head,
With winds and stars, that pay her court
And leaping beasts, that make her sport;
Because, gray Europe's rags august
She tramples in the dust;
Because we are her fields of corn;
Because our fires are all reborn
From her bosom's deathless embers,
Flaming
As she remembers
The springtime
And Virginia,
Our Mother, Pocahontas.
III
We here renounce our Saxon blood.
Tomorrow's hopes, an April flood
Come roaring in. The newest race
Is born of her resilient grace.
We here renounce our Teuton pride:
Our Norse and Slavic boasts have died:
Italian dreams are swept away,
And Celtic feuds are lost today....
She sings of lilacs, maples, wheat,
Her own soil sings beneath her feet,
Of springtime
And Virginia,
Our Mother, Pocahontas.
PENSIVE, on her dead gazing, I heard the Mother of All,
Desperate, on the torn bodies, on the forms covering the battle-
fields gazing;
(As the last gun ceased--but the scent of the powder-smoke linger'd;)
As she call'd to her earth with mournful voice while she stalk'd:
Absorb them well, O my earth, she cried--I charge you, lose not my
sons! lose not an atom;
And you streams, absorb them well, taking their dear blood;
And you local spots, and you airs that swim above lightly,
And all you essences of soil and growth--and you, my rivers' depths;
And you, mountain sides--and the woods where my dear children's
blood, trickling, redden'd;
And you trees, down in your roots, to bequeath to all future
trees,                                                       10
My dead absorb--my young men's beautiful bodies absorb--and their
precious, precious, precious blood;
Which holding in trust for me, faithfully back again give me, many a
year hence,
In unseen essence and odor of surface and grass, centuries hence;
In blowing airs from the fields, back again give me my darlings--give
my immortal heroes;
Exhale me them centuries hence--breathe me their breath--let not an
atom be lost;
O years and graves! O air and soil! O my dead, an aroma sweet!
Exhale them perennial, sweet death, years, centuries hence.
The things she knew, let her forget again-
The voices in the sky, the fear, the cold,
The gaping shepherds, and the queer old men
Piling their clumsy gifts of foreign gold.
Let her have laughter with her little one;
Teach her the endless, tuneless songs to sing,
Grant her her right to whisper to her son
The foolish names one dare not call a king.
Keep from her dreams the rumble of a crowd,
The smell of rough-cut wood, the trail of red,
The thick and chilly whiteness of the shroud
That wraps the strange new body of the dead.
Ah, let her go, kind Lord, where mothers go
And boast his pretty words and ways, and plan
The proud and happy years that they shall know
Together, when her son is grown a man.
By that he ended had his ghostly sermon,
The fox was well induc'd to be a parson,
And of the priest eftsoons gan to inquire,
How to a benefice he might aspire.
"Marry, there" (said the priest) "is art indeed:
Much good deep learning one thereout may read;
For that the ground-work is, and end of all,
How to obtain a beneficial.
First, therefore, when ye have in handsome wise
Yourself attired, as you can devise,
Then to some nobleman yourself apply,
Or other great one in the world{"e}s eye,
That hath a zealous disposition
To God, and so to his religion.
There must thou fashion eke a godly zeal,
Such as no carpers may contrare reveal;
For each thing feigned ought more wary be.
There thou must walk in sober gravity,
And seem as saint-like as Saint Radegund:
Fast much, pray oft, look lowly on the ground,
And unto every one do courtesy meek:
These looks (nought saying) do a benefice seek,
But be thou sure one not to lack or long.
And if thee list unto the court to throng,
And there to hunt after the hoped prey,
Then must thou thee dispose another way:
For there thou needs must learn to laugh, to lie,
To face, to forge, to scoff, to company,
To crouch, to please, to be a beetle-stock
Of thy great master's will, to scorn, or mock.
So may'st thou chance mock out a benefice,
Unless thou canst one conjure by device,
Or cast a figure for a bishopric;
And if one could, it were but a school trick.
These be the ways by which without reward
Livings in court be gotten, though full hard;
For nothing there is done without a fee:
The courtier needs must recompensed be
With a benevolence, or have in gage
The primitias of your parsonage:
Scarce can a bishopric forpass them by,
But that it must be gelt in privity.
Do not thou therefore seek a living there,
But of more private persons seek elsewhere,
Whereas thou may'st compound a better penny,
Ne let thy learning question'd be of any.
For some good gentleman, that hath the right
Unto his church for to present a wight,
Will cope with thee in reasonable wise;
That if the living yearly do arise
To forty pound, that then his youngest son
Shall twenty have, and twenty thou hast won:
Thou hast it won, for it is of frank gift,
And he will care for all the rest to shift,
Both that the bishop may admit of thee,
And that therein thou may'st maintained be.
This is the way for one that is unlearn'd
Living to get, and not to be discern'd.
But they that are great clerks, have nearer ways,
For learning sake to living them to raise;
Yet many eke of them (God wot) are driven
T' accept a benefice in pieces riven.
How say'st thou (friend), have I not well discourst
Upon this common-place (though plain, not worst)?
Better a short tale than a bad long shriving.
Needs any more to learn to get a living?"
"Now sure, and by my halidom," (quoth he)
"Ye a great master are in your degree:
Great thanks I yield you for your discipline,
And do not doubt but duly to incline
My wits thereto, as ye shall shortly hear."
The priest him wish'd good speed, and well to fare:
So parted they, as either's way them led.
But th' ape and fox ere long so well them sped,
Through the priest's wholesome counsel lately taught,
And through their own fair handling wisely wrought,
That they a benefice 'twixt them obtained;
And crafty Reynold was a priest ordained,
And th' ape his parish clerk procur'd to be.
Then made they revel rout and goodly glee;
But, ere long time had passed, they so ill
Did order their affairs, that th' evil will
Of all their parish'ners they had constrain'd;
Who to the Ordinary of them complain'd,
How foully they their offices abus'd,
And them of crimes and heresies accus'd,
That pursuivants he often for them sent;
But they neglected his command{"e}ment.
So long persisted obstinate and bold,
Till at the length he published to hold
A visitation, and them cited thether:
Then was high time their wits about to geather.
What did they then, but made a composition
With their next neighbour priest, for light condition,
To whom their living they resigned quite
For a few pence, and ran away by night.
The answer to do you love me isn't, I married you, didn't I?
Or, Can't we discuss this after the ballgame is through?
It isn't, Well that all depends on what you mean by 'love'.
Or even, Come to bed and I'll prove that I do.
The answer isn't, How can I talk about love when
the bacon is burned and the house is an absolute mess and
the children are screaming their heads off and
I'm going to miss my bus?
The answer is yes.
The answer is yes.
The answer is yes.
Someone's Mother trails the street
Wrapt in rotted rags;
Broken slippers on her feet
Drearily she drags;
Drifting in the bitter night,
Gnawing gutter bread,
With a face of tallow white,
Listless as the dead.
Someone's Mother in the dim
Of the grey church wall
Hears within a Christmas hymn,
One she can recall
From the h so long ago,
When divinely far,
in the holy alter glow
She would kneel in prayer.
Someone's Mother, huddled there,
Had so sweet a dream;
Seemed the sky was Heaven's stair,
Golden and agleam,
Robed in gown Communion bright,
Singingly she trod
Up and up the stair of light,
And thee was waiting - God.
Someone's Mother cowers down
By the old church wall;
Soft above the sleeping town
Snow begins to fall;
Now her rags are lily fair,
but unproud is she:
Someone's Mother is not there...
Lo! she climbs the starry stair
Only angels see.
Most near, most dear, most loved, and most far,
Under the huge window where I often found her
Sitting as huge as Asia, seismic with laughter,
Gin and chicken helpless in her Irish hand,
Irresistible as Rabelais but most tender for
The lame dogs and hurt birds that surround her,—
She is a procession no one can follow after
But be like a little dog following a brass band.
She will not glance up at the bomber or condescend
To drop her gin and scuttle to a cellar,
But lean on the mahogany table like a mountain
Whom only faith can move, and so I send
O all her faith and all my love to tell her
That she will move from mourning into morning.
His mother dear Cupid offended late,
Because that Mars grown slacker in her love,
With pricking shot he did not throughly more
To keep the pace of their first loving state.
The boy refus'd for fear of Mars's hate,
Who threaten'd stripes, if he his wrath did prove:
But she in chafe him from her lap did shove,
Brake bow, brake shafts, while Cupid weeping sate:
Till that his grandame Nature pityijng it
Of stella's brows make him two better bows,
And in her eyes of arrows infinite.
Oh how for joy he leaps, oh how he crows,
And straight therewith like wags new got to play,
Falls to shrewd turns, and I was in his way.
My mother loved her horses and
Her hounds of pedigree;
She did not kiss the baby hand
I held to her in glee.
Of course I had a sweet nou-nou
Who tended me with care,
And mother reined her nag to view
Me with a critic air.
So I went to a famous school,
But holidays were short;
My mother thought me just a fool,
Unfit for games and sport.
For I was fond of books and art,
And hated hound and steed:
Said Mother, 'Boy, you break my heart!
You are not of our breed.'
Then came the War. The Mater said:
'Thank God, a son I give
To King and Country,'--well, I'm dead
Who would have loved to live.
'For England's sake,' said she, 'he died.
For that my boy I bore.'
And now she talks of me with pride.
A hero of the War.
Mother, I think that you are glad
I ended up that way.
Your horses and your dogs you had,
And still you have today.
Your only child you say you gave
Your Country to defend . . .
Dear Mother, from a hero's grave
I--curse you in the end.
When my mother died I was very young,
And my father sold me while yet my tongue
Could scarcely cry 'Weep! weep! weep! weep!'
So your chimneys I sweep, and in soot I sleep.
There's little Tom Dacre, who cried when his head,
That curled like a lamb's back, was shaved; so I said,
'Hush, Tom! never mind it, for, when your head's bare,
You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair.'
And so he was quiet, and that very night,
As Tom was a-sleeping, he had such a sight! --
That thousands of sweepers, Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack,
Were all of them locked up in coffins of black.
And by came an angel, who had a bright key,
And he opened the coffins, and let them all free;
Then down a green plain, leaping, laughing, they run,
And wash in a river, and shine in the sun.
Then naked and white, all their bags left behind,
They rise upon clouds, and sport in the wind;
And the Angel told Tom, if he'd be a good boy,
He'd have God for his father, and never want joy.
And so Tom awoke, and we rose in the dark,
And got with our bags and our brushes to work.
Though the morning was cold, Tom was happy and warm:
So, if all do their duty, they need not fear harm.
COMETH a voice:—‘My children, hear;
From the crowded street and the close-packed mart
I call you back with my message clear,
Back to my lap and my loving heart.
Long have ye left me, journeying on
By range and river and grassy plain,
To the teeming towns where the rest have gone—
Come back, come back to my arms again.
‘So shall ye lose the foolish needs
That gnaw your souls; and my touch shall serve
To heal the ills that the city breeds,
The pallid cheek and the fretted nerve.
Treading the turf that ye once loved well,
Instead of the stones of the city’s street,
Ye shall hear nor din nor drunken yell,
But the wind that croons in the ripening wheat.
‘Yonder, beneath the smoke-smeared sky,
A city of half a million souls
That struggle and chaffer and strive and cry
By a sullied river that seaward rolls.
But here, blue range and full-filled creek,
And the soil made glad by the welcome rain
Waiting the plough. If peace ye seek,
Come back, come back to my arms again.
‘I that am old have seen long since
Ruin of palaces made with hands
For the soldier-king and the priest and prince
Whose cities crumble in desert sands.
But still the furrow in many a clime
Yields softly under the ploughman’s feet;
Still there is seeding and harvest time,
And the wind still croons in the ripening wheat.
‘Where is Persepolis? Ask the Wind
That once the tresses of Thais kissed.
A stone or two you may haply find
Where Night and the Desert keep their tryst.
But the broken goblet is cast away,
And to seek for the lights that are lost is vain.
The city passes; the green fields stay—
Come back, come back to my arms again.
‘The works of man are but little worth;
For a time they stand, for a space endure;
But turn once more to your mother—Earth,
My gifts are gracious, my works are sure.
Green shoot of herbage for growing herd,
And blossoming promise of fruitage sweet,
These shall not fail, if ye heed my word,
Nor the wind that croons in the ripening wheat.
‘Would ye fashion a nation, whole and true,
Goodly-proportioned, sound at core?
Then this, my sons, ye must surely do—
Give city less, and country more.
Would ye rear a race to hold this land
From foemen steering across the main?
Then, children, listen and understand—
Come back, come back to my arms again.
‘Your coastwise cities are passing fair—
Jetty and warehouse and banking-hall,
Tower and dome and statued square—
But who is to guard when the blow shall fall?
The men who can shoot and ride are found
Not where the clerks and the shopmen meet,
But out, where the reaper hears the sound
Of the wind that croons in the ripening wheat.
‘Ye know, who have long since left the loam
For a city job in some crowded works,
That sorrow abides in the straitened home,
And Death in the stifling factory lurks.
And some, who are out of a job, must sleep
On a city bench in the driving rain.
Of happier days are ye dreaming deep?
Come back, come back to my arms again.
‘There in the city, by jungle law,
Each fights for his meat till set of sun.
By the deadliest fang and the sharpest claw
The right to the largest share is won.
But here there is neither strife nor guile,
The brazen robber nor smooth-tongued cheat.
Your gold is safe—where the harvests smile,
And the wind still croons in the ripening wheat.
‘I mind me once, in a sunlit land,
Lancer, Hussar, and fierce Uhlan
Came galloping in on every hand,
And poppied cornfields over-ran.
And many a sabre was stoutly plied,
And many a hero kissed the plain,
And many a hero’s mother cried,
“Come back, come back to my arms again!”
‘But when no longer the trumpets pealed,
And the stricken land was at rest once more,
They found a peasant who sowed his field
Nor knew that France had been at war.
E’en so, instead of the strife and pain
I give you peace, with its blessing sweet.
Come back, come back to my arms again,
For the wind still croons in the ripening wheat.’
Cuddling in the arms her half-asphyxiated baby, howling,
she ran up the staircase of the apartment building that was set ablaze.
From the first floor to the second.
From the second to the third.
From the third to the fourth.
Until she had jumped onto the roof.
There, having choked with air, clinging to the chimney,
she looked down from where she could hear
the crackle of flames which were reaching higher and higher.
And then she became motionless and silent.
She kept silent to the end, till the moment
at which she suddenly clenched her eyelids,
stepped to the roof edge and, throwing forward her arms,
she dropped her baby down.
Two seconds earlier than she herself leapt down.
There was Rundle, Station Master,
An' Beazeley of the Rail,
An' 'Ackman, Commissariat,
An' Donkin' o' the Jail;
An' Blake, Conductor-Sargent,
Our Master twice was 'e,
With 'im that kept the Europe-shop,
Old Framjee Eduljee.
Outside -- "Sergeant!  Sir!  Salute!  Salaam!"
Inside -- "Brother", an' it doesn't do no 'arm.
We met upon the Level an' we parted on the Square,
An' I was Junior Deacon in my Mother-Lodge out there!
We'd Bola Nath, Accountant,
An' Saul the Aden Jew,
An' Din Mohammed, draughtsman
Of the Survey Office too;
There was Babu Chuckerbutty,
An' Amir Singh the Sikh,
An' Castro from the fittin'-sheds,
The Roman Catholick!
We 'adn't good regalia,
An' our Lodge was old an' bare,
But we knew the Ancient Landmarks,
An' we kep' 'em to a hair;
An' lookin' on it backwards
It often strikes me thus,
There ain't such things as infidels,
Excep', per'aps, it's us.
For monthly, after Labour,
We'd all sit down and smoke
(We dursn't give no banquits,
Lest a Brother's caste were broke),
An' man on man got talkin'
Religion an' the rest,
An' every man comparin'
Of the God 'e knew the best.
So man on man got talkin',
An' not a Brother stirred
Till mornin' waked the parrots
An' that dam' brain-fever-bird;
We'd say 'twas 'ighly curious,
An' we'd all ride 'ome to bed,
With Mo'ammed, God, an' Shiva
Changin' pickets in our 'ead.
Full oft on Guv'ment service
This rovin' foot 'ath pressed,
An' bore fraternal greetin's
To the Lodges east an' west,
Accordin' as commanded
From Kohat to Singapore,
But I wish that I might see them
In my Mother-Lodge once more!
I wish that I might see them,
My Brethren black an' brown,
With the trichies smellin' pleasant
An' the ~hog-darn~ passin' down;                          [Cigar-lighter.]
An' the old khansamah snorin'                                     [Butler.]
On the bottle-khana floor,                                       [Pantry.]
Like a Master in good standing
With my Mother-Lodge once more!
Outside -- "Sergeant!  Sir!  Salute!  Salaam!"
Inside -- "Brother", an' it doesn't do no 'arm.
We met upon the Level an' we parted on the Square,
An' I was Junior Deacon in my Mother-Lodge out there!
When mid-autumn's moan shook the night-time,
And sedges were horny,
And summer's green wonderwork faltered
On leaze and in lane,
I fared Yell'ham-Firs way, where dimly
Came wheeling around me
Those phantoms obscure and insistent
That shadows unchain.
Till airs from the needle-thicks brought me
A low lamentation,
As 'twere of a tree-god disheartened,
Perplexed, or in pain.
And, heeding, it awed me to gather
That Nature herself there
Was breathing in aerie accents,
With dirgeful refrain,
Weary plaint that Mankind, in these late days,
Had grieved her by holding
Her ancient high fame of perfection
In doubt and disdain...
- 'I had not proposed me a Creature
(She soughed)  so excelling
All else of my kingdom in compass
And brightness of brain
'As to read my defects with a god-glance,
Uncover each vestige
Of old inadvertence, annunciate
Each flaw and each stain!
'My purpose went not to develop
Such insight in Earthland;
Such potent appraisements affront me,
And sadden my reign!
'Why loosened I olden control here
To mechanize skywards,
Undeeming great scope could outshape in
A globe of such grain?
'Man's mountings of mind-sight I checked not,
Till range of his vision
Has topped my intent, and found blemish
Throughout my domain.
'He holds as inept his own soul-shell -
My deftest achievement -
Contemns me for fitful inventions
Ill-timed and inane:
'No more sees my sun as a Sanct-shape,
My moon as the Night-queen,
My stars as august and sublime ones
That influences rain:
'Reckons gross and ignoble my teaching,
Immoral my story,
My love-lights a lure, that my species
May gather and gain.
''Give me,' he has said, 'but the matter
And means the gods lot her,
My brain could evolve a creation
More seemly, more sane.'
- 'If ever a naughtiness seized me
To woo adulation
From creatures more keen than those crude ones
That first formed my train -
'If inly a moment I murmured,
'The simple praise sweetly,
But sweetlier the sage'- and did rashly
Man's vision unrein,
'I rue it! ... His guileless forerunners,
Whose brains I could blandish,
To measure the deeps of my mysteries
Applied them in vain.
'From them my waste aimings and futile
I subtly could cover;
'Every best thing,' said they, 'to best purpose
Her powers preordain.' -
'No more such! ... My species are dwindling,
My forests grow barren,
My popinjays fail from their tappings,
My larks from their strain.
'My leopardine beauties are rarer,
My tusky ones vanish,
My children have aped mine own slaughters
To quicken my wane.
'Let me grow, then, but mildews and mandrakes,
And slimy distortions,
Let nevermore things good and lovely
To me appertain;
'For Reason is rank in my temples,
And Vision unruly,
And chivalrous laud of my cunning
Is heard not again! '
She is too kind, I think, for mortal things,
Too gentle for the gusty ways of earth;
God gave to her a shy and silver mirth,
And made her soul as clear
And softly singing as an orchard spring's
In sheltered hollows all the sunny year--
A spring that thru the leaning grass looks up
And holds all heaven in its clarid cup,
Mirror to holy meadows high and blue
With stars like drops of dew.
I love to think that never tears at night
Have made her eyes less bright;
That all her girlhood thru
Never a cry of love made over-tense
Her voice's innocence;
That in her hands have lain,
Flowers beaten by the rain,
And little birds before they learned to sing
Drowned in the sudden ecstasy of spring.
I love to think that with a wistful wonder
She held her baby warm against her breast;
That never any fear awoke whereunder
She shuddered at her gift, or trembled lest
Thru the great doors of birth
Here to a windy earth
She lured from heaven a half-unwilling guest.
She caught and kept his first vague flickering smile,
The faint upleaping of his spirit's fire;
And for a long sweet while
In her was all he asked of earth or heaven--
But in the end how far,
Past every shaken star,
Should leap at last that arrow-like desire,
His full-grown manhood's keen
Ardor toward the unseen
Dark mystery beyond the Pleiads seven.
And in her heart she heard
His first dim-spoken word--
She only of them all could understand,
Flushing to feel at last
The silence over-past,
Thrilling as tho' her hand had touched God's hand.
But in the end how many words
Winged on a flight she could not follow,
Farther than skyward lark or swallow,
His lips should free to lands she never knew;
Braver than white sea-faring birds
With a fearless melody,
Flying over a shining sea,
A star-white song between the blue and blue.
Oh I have seen a lake as clear and fair
As it were molten air,
Lifting a lily upward to the sun.
How should the water know the glowing heart
That ever to the heaven lifts its fire,
A golden and unchangeable desire?
The water only knows
The faint and rosy glows
Of under-petals, opening apart.
Yet in the soul of earth,
Deep in the primal ground,
Its searching roots are wound,
And centuries have struggled toward its birth.
So, in the man who sings,
All of the voiceless horde
>From the cold dawn of things
Have their reward;
All in whose pulses ran
Blood that is his at last,
>From the first stooping man
Far in the winnowed past.
Out of the tumult of their love and mating
Each one created, seeing life was good--
Dumb, till at last the song that they were waiting
Breaks like brave April thru a wintry wood.
THE threefold terror of love; a fallen flare
Through the hollow of an ear;
Wings beating about the room;
The terror of all terrors that I bore
The Heavens in my womb.
Had I not found content among the shows
Every common woman knows,
Chimney corner, garden walk,
Or rocky cistern where we tread the clothes
And gather all the talk?
What is this flesh I purchased with my pains,
This fallen star my milk sustains,
This love that makes my heart's blood stop
Or strikes a Sudden chill into my bones
And bids my hair stand up?
Abortions will not let you forget.
You remember the children you got that you did not get,
The damp small pulps with a little or with no hair,
The singers and workers that never handled the air.
You will never neglect or beat
Them, or silence or buy with a sweet.
You will never wind up the sucking-thumb
Or scuttle off ghosts that come.
You will never leave them, controlling your luscious sigh,
Return for a snack of them, with gobbling mother-eye.
I have heard in the voices of the wind the voices of my dim killed
children.
I have contracted. I have eased
My dim dears at the breasts they could never suck.
I have said, Sweets, if I sinned, if I seized
Your luck
And your lives from your unfinished reach,
If I stole your births and your names,
Your straight baby tears and your games,
Your stilted or lovely loves, your tumults, your marriages, aches,
and your deaths,
If I poisoned the beginnings of your breaths,
Believe that even in my deliberateness I was not deliberate.
Though why should I whine,
Whine that the crime was other than mine?--
Since anyhow you are dead.
Or rather, or instead,
You were never made.
But that too, I am afraid,
Is faulty: oh, what shall I say, how is the truth to be said?
You were born, you had body, you died.
It is just that you never giggled or planned or cried.
Believe me, I loved you all.
Believe me, I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved you
All.
Here I lean over you, small son, sleeping
Warm in my arms,
And I con to my heart all your dew-fresh charms,
As you lie close, close in my hungry hold...
Your hair like a miser's dream of gold,
And the white rose of your face far fairer,
Finer, and rarer
Than all the flowers in the young year's keeping;
Over lips half parted your low breath creeping
Is sweeter than violets in April grasses;
Though your eyes are fast shut I can see their blue,
Splendid and soft as starshine in heaven,
With all the joyance and wisdom given
From the many souls who have stanchly striven
Through the dead years to be strong and true.
Those fine little feet in my worn hands holden...
Where will they tread?
Valleys of shadow or heights dawn-red?
And those silken fingers, O, wee, white son,
What valorous deeds shall by them be done
In the future that yet so distant is seeming
To my fond dreaming?
What words all so musical and golden
With starry truth and poesy olden
Shall those lips speak in the years on-coming?
O, child of mine, with waxen brow,
Surely your words of that dim to-morrow
Rapture and power and grace must borrow
From the poignant love and holy sorrow
Of the heart that shrines and cradles you now!
Some bitter day you will love another,
To her will bear
Love-gifts and woo her... then must I share
You and your tenderness! Now you are mine
From your feet to your hair so golden and fine,
And your crumpled finger-tips... mine completely,
Wholly and sweetly;
Mine with kisses deep to smother,
No one so near to you now as your mother!
Others may hear your words of beauty,
But your precious silence is mine alone;
Here in my arms I have enrolled you,
Away from the grasping world I fold you,
Flesh of my flesh and bone of my bone!
IN the sorrow and the terror of the nations,
In a world shaken through by lamentations,
Shall I dare know happiness
That I stitch a baby’s dress?
So: for I shall be a mother with the mothers,
I shall know the mother’s anguish like the others,
Present joy must surely start
For the life beneath my heart.
Gods and men, ye know a woman’s glad unreason,
How she cannot bend and weep but in her season,
Let my hours with rapture glow
As the seams and stitches grow.
And I cannot hear the word of fire and slaughter;
Do men die? Then live, my child, my son, my daughter!
Into realms of pain I bring
You for joy’s own offering.
Your children grow from you apart,
Afar and still afar;
And yet it should rejoice your heart
To see how glad they are;
In school and sport, in work and play,
And last, in wedded bliss
How others claim with joy to-day
The lips you used to kiss.
Your children distant will become,
And wide the gulf will grow;
The lips of loving will be dumb,
The trust you used to know
Will in another's heart repose,
Another's voice will cheer...
And you will fondle baby clothes
And brush away a tear.
But though you are estranged almost,
And often lost to view,
How you will see a little ghost
Who ran to cling to you!
Yet maybe children's children will
Caress you with a smile...
Grandmother love will bless you still,-
Well, just a little while.
Children, I come back today
To tell you a story of the long dark way
That I had to climb, that I had to know
In order that the race might live and grow.
Look at my face -  dark as the night -
Yet shining like the sun with love's true light.
I am the dark girl who crossed the red sea
Carrying in my body the seed of the free.
I am the woman who worked in the field
Bringing the cotton and the corn to yield.
I am the one who labored as a slave,
Beaten and mistreated for the work that I gave -
Children sold away from me, I'm husband sold, too.
No safety, no love, no respect was I due.
Three hundred years in the deepest South:
But God put a song and a prayer in my mouth.
God put a dream like steel in my soul.
Now, through my children, I'm reaching the goal.
Now, through my children, young and free,
I realized the blessing deed to me.
I couldn't read then. I couldn't write.
I had nothing, back there in the night.
Sometimes, the valley was filled with tears,
But I kept trudging on through the lonely years.
Sometimes, the road was hot with the sun,
But I had to keep on till my work was done:
I had to keep on! No stopping for me -
I was the seed of the coming Free.
I nourished the dream that nothing could smother
Deep in my breast -  the Negro mother.
I had only hope then, but now through you,
Dark ones of today, my dreams must come true:
All you dark children in the world out there,
Remember my sweat, my pain, my despair.
Remember my years, heavy with sorrow -
And make of those years a torch for tomorrow.
Make of my pass a road to the light
Out of the darkness, the ignorance, the night.
Lift high my banner out of the dust.
Stand like free men supporting my trust.
Believe in the right, let none push you back.
Remember the whip and the slaver's track.
Remember how the strong in struggle and strife
Still bar you the way, and deny you life -
But march ever forward, breaking down bars.
Look ever upward at the sun and the stars.
Oh, my dark children, may my dreams and my prayers
Impel you forever up the great stairs -
For I will be with you till no white brother
Dares keep down the children of the Negro Mother.
HIERUSALEM, my happy home,
When shall I come to thee?
When shall my sorrows have an end,
Thy joys when shall I see?
O happy harbour of the Saints!
O sweet and pleasant soil!
In thee no sorrow may be found,
No grief, no care, no toil.
There lust and lucre cannot dwell,
There envy bears no sway;
There is no hunger, heat, nor cold,
But pleasure every way.
Thy walls are made of precious stones,
Thy bulwarks diamonds square;
Thy gates are of right orient pearl,
Exceeding rich and rare.
Thy turrets and thy pinnacles
With carbuncles do shine;
Thy very streets are paved with gold,
Surpassing clear and fine.
Ah, my sweet home, Hierusalem,
Would God I were in thee!
Would God my woes were at an end,
Thy joys that I might see!
Thy gardens and thy gallant walks
Continually are green;
There grows such sweet and pleasant flowers
As nowhere else are seen.
Quite through the streets, with silver sound,
The flood of Life doth flow;
Upon whose banks on every side
The wood of Life doth grow.
There trees for evermore bear fruit,
And evermore do spring;
There evermore the angels sit,
And evermore do sing.
Our Lady sings Magnificat
With tones surpassing sweet;
And all the virgins bear their part,
Sitting about her feet.
Hierusalem, my happy home,
Would God I were in thee!
Would God my woes were at an end,
Thy joys that I might see!
Sleep, sleep, my beloved,
without worry, without fear,
although my soul does not sleep,
although I do not rest.
Sleep, sleep, and in the night
may your whispers be softer
than a leaf of grass,
or the silken fleece of lambs.
May my flesh slumber in you,
my worry, my trembling.
In you, may my eyes close
and my heart sleep.
ONE morning (raw it was and wet---
A foggy day in winter time)
A Woman on the road I met,
Not old, though something past her prime:
Majestic in her person, tall and straight;
And like a Roman matron's was her mien and gait.
The ancient spirit is not dead;
Old times, thought I, are breathing there;
Proud was I that my country bred
Such strength, a dignity so fair:
She begged an alms, like one in poor estate;
I looked at her again, nor did my pride abate.
When from these lofty thoughts I woke,
'What is it,' said I, 'that you bear,
Beneath the covert of your Cloak,
Protected from this cold damp air? '
She anwered, soon as she the question heard,
'A simple burthen, Sir, a little Singing-bird.'
And, thus continuing, she said,
'I had a Son, who many a day
Sailed on the seas, but he is dead;
In Denmark he was cast away:
And I have travelled weary miles to see
If aught which he had owned might still remain for me.
The bird and cage they both were his:
'Twas my Son's bird; and neat and trim
He kept it: many voyages
The singing-bird had gone with him;
When last he sailed, he left the bird behind;
From bodings, as might be, that hung upon his mind.
He to a fellow-lodger's care
Had left it, to be watched and fed,
And pipe its song in safety;---there
I found it when my Son was dead;
And now, God help me for my little wit!
I bear it with me, Sir;---he took so much delight in it.'
Heard you that shriek? It rose
So wildly on the air,
It seemed as if a burden'd heart
Was breaking in despair.
Saw you those hands so sadly clasped --
The bowed and feeble hand --
The shuddering of that fragile form --
That look of grief and dread?
Saw you the sad, imploring eye?
Its every glance was pain,
As if a storm of agony
Were sweeping through the brain.
She is a mother, pale with fear,
Her boy clings to her side,
And in her kirtle vainly tries
His trembling form to hide.
He is not hers, although she bore
For him a mother's pains;
He is not hers, although her blood
Is coursing through his veins!
He is not hers, for cruel hands
May rudely tear apart
The only wreath of household love
That binds her breaking heart.
His love has been a joyous light
That o'er her pathway smiled,
A fountain gushing ever new,
Amid life's desert wild.
His lightest word has been a tone
Of music round her heart,
Their lives a streamlet blent in one --
Oh, Father! must they part?
They tear him from her circling arms,
Her last and fond embrace.
Oh! never more may her sad eyes
Gaze on his mournful face.
No marvel, then, these bitter shrieks
Disturb the listening air;
She is a mother, and her heart
Is breaking in despair.
I RISE in the dawn, and I kneel and blow
Till the seed of the fire flicker and glow;
And then I must scrub and bake and sweep
Till stars are beginning to blink and peep;
And the young lie long and dream in their bed
Of the matching of ribbons for bosom and head,
And their ~y goes over in idleness,
And they sigh if the wind but lift a tress:
While I must work because I am old,
And the seed of the fire gets feeble and cold.
Well I recall my Father's wife,
The day he brought her home.
His children looked for years of strife,
And troubles sure to come --
Ungraciously we welcomed her,
A thing to scorn and blame;
And swore we never would confer
On her, a Mother's name
I see her yet -- a girl in years,
With eyes so blue and mild;
She greeted us with smiles and tears,
How sweetly too she smiled --
She bent to kiss my sullen brow,
With woman's gentle grace;
And laid her tiny hand of snow
On my averted face --
"Henry -- is this your son? She said --
"Dear boy -- he now is mine --
What not one kiss? --" I shook my head,
"I am no son of thine! --"
She sighed -- and from her dimpled cheek
The rosy colour fled;
She turned away and did not speak,
My thoughts were with the dead --
There leaped from out my Father's eyes
A jet of swarthy fire;
That flashed on me in fierce surprise --
I fled before his ire
I heard her gentle voice entreat --
"Forgiveness for her sake" --
Which added swiftness to my feet,
A sad and strange mistake --
A year had scarcely rolled away
When by that hated bride;
I loved to linger half the day,
In very joy and pride;
Her voice was music to mine ear,
So soft its accent fell;
"Dear Mother now" -- and oh, how dear
No words of mine can tell --
She was so gentle, fair and kind,
So pure in soul and free from art;
That woman with her noble mind,
Subdued my rebel heart --
I just had learned to know her worth,
My Father's second choice to bless;
When God removed her from the earth,
And plunged us all in deep distress --
Hot fever smote with burning blight
Stretchd on a restless bed of pain;
I moaning lay from morn till night
With aching limbs and throbbing brain --
Four weary weeks beside my bed,
She sat within a darkened room;
Untiring held my aching head,
Nor heeded silence -- cold and gloom --
And when my courage quite gave way,
And fainter grew my struggling breath;
She taught my stricken soul to pray
And calmly meet approaching death --
"Fear not God's angel, sent by Him,
The weary spirit to release;
Before the mortal eyes grow dim,
Floats down the white winged dove of peace" --
There came a change -- but fingers small,
No longer smoothed my matted hair;
She sprang not to my feeble call,
Nor helped to lift me to my chair --
And I arose as from the dead,
A life for her dear life was given;
The angel who had watched my bed
Had vanished into Heaven! --
My little love, my darling,
You were a doorway to me;
You let me out of the confines
Into this strange countrie,
Where people are crowded like thistles,
Yet are shapely and comely to see.
My little love, my dearest
Twice have you issued me,
Once from your womb, sweet mother,
Once from myself, to be
Free of all hearts, my darling,
Of each heart’s home-life free.
And so, my love, my mother,
I shall always be true to you;
Twice I am born, my dearest,
To life, and to death, in you;
And this is the life hereafter
Wherein I am true.
I kiss you good-bye, my darling,
Our ways are different now;
You are a seed in the night-time,
I am a man, to plough
The difficult glebe of the future
For God to endow.
I kiss you good-bye, my dearest,
It is finished between us here.
Oh, if I were calm as you are,
Sweet and still on your bier!
O God, if I had not to leave you
Alone, my dear!
Let the last word be uttered,
Oh grant the farewell is said!
Spare me the strength to leave you
Now you are dead.
I must go, but my soul lies helpless
Beside your bed.
My daughter would turn 10 next month…
I find it hard to believe!
It seems only yesterday
That she was born….
As my thoughts wander
Down the memory lane,
I am transported
To those restless days
In the balcony where I sat
On a low stool
With swollen feet and a heavy body
With waves of nausea and anxiety
Drowning me in the abyss of depression
Wondering if I was in for a second nightmare
Much more frightening than the last….
My daughter would complete one decade of her life next month…
I find it hard to believe!
It seems only yesterday
That she was born….
As my thoughts wander
Down the memory lane,
I am transported
To those long, peaceful days
In the balcony where I sat
On a low stool
With needles and threads of different colors
With a pink cloth and an embroidery frame
With my lips moving in a silent prayer to God
Wondering if He was going to make my daughter
As beautiful as the flowers I was embroidering…..
Born in the famine struck Africa
Living at the age of five
You told me mother,
That I was lucky to be alive.
When my friends were dying of hunger
And my health too began to crumble,
We could not afford to buy food and healthcare things,
Owing to our meagre earnings.
The day that I bid good-bye to life
Vivid memories of you I locked inside
My life conveyed a grave reality
Of numerous malnourishment deaths, indeed a pity!
Maybe God had written this fate for me,
Dying, rather than living in pain was how he had planned it to be.
I know you wished I could live a while longer
But I ask of you to find your feet and be stronger.
Mother, I know you didn't have an alternative
You dug a shallow pit & let my body rest in peace.
No Gravestone, No mark to identify my tomb by
Not even a picture of me, to look at and cry.
Standing here at heavens gate
I see you, moving on in life ahead
I have of God just one complain,
Why such short life span did you paint?
Mother, now that I no longer exist
Don't ever strike me off from your 'I love...' list!
Remember me as a glorious flower
Who happened to spread joy, though just for an hour.
In the old Strauss waltz for the first time
We had listened to your quiet call,
Since then all the living things are alien
And the knocking of the clock consoles.
We, like you, are gladly greeting sunsets,
And are drunk on nearness of the end.
All, with which on better nights we're wealthy
Is put in the hearts by your own hand.
Bowing to a child's dreams with no tire.
(Only crescent looked in them indeed
Without you)! You have led your kids past
Bitter lifetime of the thoughts and deeds.
From the early age the sad one's close to us,
Laughter bores and home we left behind..
Our ship not in good times left the harbor
And it sails by will of every wind!
Azure isle of childhood is paling,
On the deck of ship we stand alone.
It appears, oh mother, to your daughters
You've left an inheritance of woe.
1
In this morning's dream, you lived
in an elegant, old high-rise
atop a steep, rugged hill
whose sides had been built up
along a winding, narrow road
with ancient walls and terraces
running down to a great precipice
and a panoramic view of the city—
a city like St. Louis, but greater,
with the green Cathedral dome,
lots of red-roofed, public buildings
and thousands of colorful homes.
In the sky there, your condo adjoined
a little boutique that you ran.
2
In my earliest memories
you’re only a voice from the kitchen
and sounds of pots and pans
rattling as I watched TV.
Certain years, the voltage of your nerves
charged every room in our house
and your outstretched palm
would strike like a quick
snake against my cheek.
How did you make the journey
up from those desolate flatlands?
3
You first ventured out of the house
to an art librarian’s job at the University.
I went with you Saturday mornings in spring
as the dogwood trees blossomed on campus
and you showed me how to tell
a Renoir from a Monet.
Out of domestic imprisonment
you found your way year by year,
mentored by a wise crone
until you came to fill her shoes,
head librarian, grande dame
of the busy Clayton Branch.
4
Still, I was surprised to find you
up there, in my dream,
at the Center of Things.
You do still worry too much!
If you can't reach me on a Sunday
you imagine terrible things.
But you’ve come all that way
up that dream hill.
Now that you’re retired,
you’ve still got luncheons to host,
dessert spoons to creatively arrange.
You’ve still got your flair for design,
your exercise class and bridge,
faithful relatives and friends.
I like to visit up there.
I enjoy the view on your hill.
I’d hope to have my own hill
and be able to see so far.
Because I feel that, in the Heavens above,
The angels, whispering to one another,
Can find, among their burning terms of love,
None so devotional as that of "Mother,"
Therefore by that dear name I long have called you-
You who are more than mother unto me,
And fill my heart of hearts, where Death installed you
In setting my Virginia's spirit free.
My mother- my own mother, who died early,
Was but the mother of myself; but you
Are mother to the one I loved so dearly,
And thus are dearer than the mother I knew
By that infinity with which my wife
Was dearer to my soul than its soul-life.
Most near, most dear, most loved and most far,
Under the window where I often found her
Sitting as huge as Asia, seismic with laughter,
Gin and chicken helpless in her Irish hand,
Irresistible as Rabelais, but most tender for
The lame dogs and hurt birds that surround her -
She is a procession no one can follow after
But be like a little dog following a brass band.
She will not glance up at the bomber, or condescend
To drop her gin and scuttle to a cellar,
But lean on the mahogany table like a mountain
Whom only faith can move, and so I send
O all my faith, and all my love to tell her
That she will move from mourning into morning.
You too, my mother, read my rhymes
For love of unforgotten times,
And you may chance to hear once more
The little feet along the floor.
A mother is the one who loves you
A mother puts no drug above you
A mother will never make you cry
A mother will never make you want to die
A mother will help you fight your fears
A mother will help you stop your tears
A mother will keep you safe and sound
A mother will never let you down
A mother will daily say I love you
A mother won’t say I hate you
A mother won’t wish you were dead
A mother won’t forget what you said
A mother won’t close the door
A mother won’t let you be poor
Now I ask you, do you have a mother?
Cause’ I don’t, so don’t bother.
In nineteen hundred twenty four,
Because our father died,
Our mother had to go to work,
And swallow family pride.
She had three youngsters then to raise;
It was no easy task;
For handout or for charity,
She wouldn't ever ask.
She paid her way, and theirs, as well,
An everlasting grind:
Example of the highest type
That one could ever find.
From typist to important jobs,
Advancing all the way;
Was dedicated to her work,
And she was there to stay.
She put herself through high school
By attending class at night.
Then evening college studies
Would provide a future, bright.
She taught us things like faith and hope,
And, also, charity.
And, in addition, we were shown,
What's called:  frugality.
But, halfway through her college quest
A major war was on.
So, Navy was the uniform
That she would neatly don.
The years she worked in Government
Would total forty two.
And, after that, she settled back,
With other things to do.
She's owned her home for forty years,
And now we help her stay there.
We often go to visit her,
And, now and then, we pray there.
She helps her children even now;
She's not like any other:
One of a kind, perfectionist;
A very special mother.
Her baby was so full of glee,
And through the day
It laughed and babbled on her knee
In happy play.
It pulled her hair all out of curl
With noisy joy;
So peppy she was glad her girl
Was not a boy.
Then as she longed for it to sleep,
To her surprise
It just relaxed within her keep
With closing eyes.
And as it lay upon her breast
So still its breath,
So exquisite its utter rest
It looked like death.
It seemed like it had slipped away
To shadow land;
With tiny face like tinted clay
And waxen hand.
No ghost of sigh, no living look . . .
Then with an ache
Of panic fear and love she shook
Her babe awake.
There is something bursting inside
That I want to tell you
I once committed murder at the age of three
I have to confess, I do
It all started on a warm summer night
When I was playing with my goldfish by putting it back and again taking it in a net
When my mom called me and I forgot about goldy
And it along with the net on the table I kept
Next morning every thing was normal
Until my sister rushed in to the room and said
That my little dear goldy who was my favourite pet
Was lying on the table, dead
Mom gave me a good spanking  but then
She apologized when she saw me cry
I think she realized that as I was only three
I didn’t know that without water a fish could die!
Abortion……………...................
I'll tell you a crime story that you've never heard,
But first you'll have to promise to not spread the word.
It started many years ago on the Massachusetts coast.
Most of those who know of it are now themselves ghosts.
It is a murder story frightful and most ghastly.
If you mention it to the police they'll laugh, and YOU may be the victim, lastly.
After high school in the 60's I attended Boston College.
I went there for the social life, and to gain some more knowledge.
While there I joined a fraternity made up mostly of jocks.
Initiation week they made us attend classes with no shoes or sox.
I'm getting off the track a bit as does happen often.
I think too many drugs in the 60's caused my brain to soften.
A member of my fraternity was a B.C. basketball star;
He was scouted by the pros and it was felt he'd go far.
He was 6 foot 7 and his meals were supersized.
He was my closest friend and I enjoyed looking up at his eyes.
One night in the off season he went drinking at a bar.
He left the joint at 2 A.M. but he didn't get far.
He was found by a sanitation worker early the next morn.
His skull had been bashed in; his massive throat was well-torn.
It was a campus and Boston sensation, a sad one it was true.
I was crushed by his passing and from college I withdrew.
I had lots of money from my grandma; I did not need a job.
I moved to Miami and became a beach bum, not a slob.
Within three years two more murders were added to this story.
The descriptions of the bodies found were EXTREMELY gory.
One, a 6-4 white male prostitute, had been eviscerated.
The police photos of a black female socialite,6-3, were XXX-rated.
My parents lived in Santa Monica and insisted I move home.
I settled in their guest house but at times I still did roam.
I met and dated a wealthy,6-5, fashion model………
The largest piece of her flesh found would fit inside a large bottle.
I started, then to see a shrink; I worried I'd go crazy.
I'm telling you my story's true, though at times details are hazy.
I spent ten years in analysis, which cost a lot of money,
But I believe it helped restore my faith and my outlook was more-sunny.
Then one summer I did Rio Mardi Gras; it was my BEST vacation yet.
But back home I learned my doctor had been found in his red Corvette.
What was left of him, I should say.  I hesitate to here linger.
He'd been shot twelve times and was missing his left ring finger.
His skull and most of his ribs had been busted.
The once-shiny car had been burned, and his body was all-crusted.
By the way my doctor was 6 foot 4; could that be a clue?
I then checked into an upscale nuthouse for a month or two.
I was there on my own accord.  My parents thought I was 'shopping'.
The docs did not believe my stories; my anxiety was not stopping.
So I moved back to the guest house. 'Mom and Dad, did you miss me? '
Fat chance!  They were busy with their lives, though once my mom did kiss me.
I found another psychiatrist, this one of short stature.
I met a pretty clerk at Starbucks and at the altar I did catch her.
The marriage lasted all of six months.  No pregnancy, thank God.
I had it annulled, gave her twenty grand, but I still miss her bod.
My weekly doctor's visits went as well as I'd expected.
I tried a run for Santa Monica mayor but did not get elected.
Two more murders in my story just happened this year.
They were the murders of my parents for which I shed no tear.
It was an inconvenience, though, cleaning up the mess.
The police photographer threw up; ……hardened detectives cried no less.
I had to hire TWO murder cleanup crews.  Their bills were a sin.
But  still, afterward, I found pieces in the bushes, which made me grin.
There were other bodies I now realize I've forgotten to mention.
I can see from the look in your eyes I've gotten your attention.
All the victims were at least 6-3 (my mom WAS 6 foot 4, my dad was 6-7) .
Maybe all are gazing down now at us from a tall-people's heaven.
My doctor says I'm the murderer; she told me for a fee.
I'm really glad I met you; you're pretty as can be.
I'll bet you're as tall as me; I am 6 foot 3 inches tall.
It's getting dark and I love you.  Let's drive to the mall.
They should not have left him there alone,
Alone that is except for the cat.
He was only nine, not old enough
To be left alone in a basement flat,
Alone, that is, except for the cat.
A dog would have been a different thing,
A big gruff dog with slashing jaws,
But a cat with round eyes mad as gold,
Plump as a cushion with tucked-in paws---
Better have left him with a fair-sized rat!
But what they did was leave him with a cat.
He hated that cat; he watched it sit,
A buzzing machine of soft black stuff,
He sat and watched and he hated it,
Snug in its fur, hot blood in a muff,
And its mad gold stare and the way it sat
Crooning dark warmth: he loathed all that.
So he took Daddy's stick and he hit the cat.
Then quick as a sudden crack in glass
It hissed, black flash, to a hiding place
In the dust and dark beneath the couch,
And he followed the grin on his new-made face,
A wide-eyed, frightened snarl of a grin,
And he took the stick and he thrust it in,
Hard and quick in the furry dark.
The black fur squealed and he felt his skin
Prickle with sparks of dry delight.
Then the cat again came into sight,
Shot for the door that wasn't quite shut,
But the boy, quick too, slammed fast the door:
The cat, half-through, was cracked like a nut
And the soft black thud was dumped on the floor.
Then the boy was suddenly terrified
And he bit his knuckles and cried and cried;
But he had to do something with the dead thing there.
His eyes squeezed beads of salty prayer
But the wound of fear gaped wide and raw;
He dared not touch the thing with his hands
So he fetched a spade and shovelled it
And dumped the load of heavy fur
In the spidery cupboard under the stair
Where it's been for years, and though it died
It's grown in that cupboard and its hot low purr
Grows slowly louder year by year:
There'll not be a corner for the boy to hide
When the cupboard swells and all sides split
And the huge black cat pads out of it.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
Rainer Maria Rilke gives good advice:
'... go into the depths in which your life takes rise
there you will find the answer to the question if you MUST create.'
You have received bad counsel
From the wolf pack that assembled to kill your spark.
I felt your poem's great beauty.
It took me with you to another place.
They killed you with their damned technique.
Use Rilke's dictum more than ever - Write!
The electronic book has changed it all.
Let consensus have the paper world.
Write and re-write until you know it says what you mean to say.
Critiqueing committtees do not write a poem,
Thank God Jefferson was a committee of one.
The power of their 'inalienable' process not denied.
She was walking down the narrow street
Shadows were passing by
Afraid of who she might meet
Someone she cannot deny.
She knew that it was coming for her
But she knew that she couldn't do a thing.
And just like that, everything went to a blur
For she was attacked by the murderer.
It shoved her body into a trash bag
Mopped up the blood and grabbed its knife
And wiped its hands with a raging red rag
For it had ended someone's life.
Where the grass is tall and green,
I mash it flat.
I watch her as she watches me,
Unobserved because.
America,
Is such a brutal culture, a modern brutal culture.
Half the channels on basic cable are about murder,
Sex, primitive reality shows,
Cop's telling the viewer how dangerous their job's
Are,
To justify the violence that they inflict upon
Their victims.
You've seen the white cop's chase down the black dude
And stupidly ask dude, why he ran.
I keep waiting to hear dude say to the cop, because
You shoot unarmed blacks almost every day.
But dude doesn't, he just adds on to his woes by talking
To the cop and it for him gets worse.
American's,
Love the butcher's, if an American doesn't love the butcher
Then there's something wrong with that American.
Violence, murder and more murder and the kind of sex that
You would have,
If you could only get away with it, where you live.
The only thing American's love more than a butcher, is
To give them a trial and wait for the judges, to cave in to
The mob mentality.
The mob want's a brutal death drawn out.
The Judge's know that no normal individual would commit
Such a crime.
We know the butcher's do.
Violence and Death isn't about love but American's love it.
There's nothing intelligent about watching,
Murder more murder,
drugged then sexed, but then most American's aren't that
Intelligent, now are they?
In America the moon is violated, the bush is stripped of
All it's leaves,
Tree's small or large are consumed by some, not all but
American's,
Need to see, feel taste and touch and smell it all.
Just like you do,
Was mummy dear, was daddy large, did you watch your
Sister or your brother, kill them all!
And vampires do what vampires do and drain U.S. all.
A body gone cold
dread, fear has now taken hold
one precious life, sold
St. Patrick's Church was sparsely filled
For Friday morning mass
The seniors getting restless-
the clock reada quarter past.
It wasn't like the pastor
to leave them waiting there.
Father Hinds was not the kind
to miss the call to prayer.
The usher and the janitor
Together went next door
They both recoiled in horror
at the blood upon the Floor.
The police came with the coroner
To the Parrish rectory door
And saw Jose the Janitor
Try CPR once more.
Chatham is a quiet town
A place when families thrive
And father was the Sheppard
to guide them through their lives.
It didn't take police much time
to find who did the deed
as Jose's cell phone records
had placed him at the scene.
The murder knife recovered
The crime confessed at last
The priest had caught him in a lie
about crimes in his past.
The people came together
And filled St. Patrick's seats
To send the Father to his rest
And give their hearts some peace.
A narrative poem about the murder of Father Ed Hinds, Pastor of St. Patrick's church in Chatham on Thursday 10/21/2009
I had been wondering off
In this dream by which I was bound
Until I was awoken
By some horrific sound
I had come upon
This murder in the clouds
Way up I could be
And I couldn't help myself but to see
That poor murdered girl I saw that day
Way up in the air
Had a far away look in her eyes
And blood filled her hair
That day to me
Was so very clear
And there was not a single thing
That I had to fear
I remember everything
The red on white
The evil glare of deathly eyes
And that final devilish bite
An oh so perfect time
Had turned very bad
When a happy little girl was murdered
All because of her dad
He crashed her special day
With a hit on her life
That started with rays of sunshine
And ended with a knife
All fucked up on drugs
With his arm in a cast
His daughters special day
He wanted to be her last
And due to
A backstabbing son of a b*tch
An almost perfect life was ruined
By one heartless bruin
Because it was on that gloomy day
Amidst all of the crowds
That a poor girl lost her life
In what is known as the murder in the clouds
A wound is inflicted but still can’t be seen
This crime we daily commit and are often the scene
It is easy means to inflict and remain unseen
Many people are experts in this and very keen
It will not dropp a single dropp of blood on ground
The person will not raise alarm and it doesn’t sound
The person will die of anguish and pain
His out cry for help may go in vain
He will find himself in fixed position
There may not be realignment or composition
It is totally different situation and causing disturbance
You may die of dishonor and try to live in exile hence
The character assassination is such weapon to cause enormous injury
No judicial system can help you or in that matter not even jury
It may add to lot of tension and worry
You may want to die after feeling so much sorry
What good people always prefer?
Why do they insist for right things and refer?
There is preference over bad things
They have lot more to gain from something
They may employ different methods if you can’t be side lined
They may design such things that may bring shame and you are fined
Your whole life comes in to jeopardy
You are helpless to find any remedy
You may bleed to death without being stabbed
Your property may be destroyed without bomb being lobbed
You stand cheated and completely robbed
The culprits will go Scot free and without being nabbed
It is safest mode without being noticed
The adversary remains exposed and victimized
He is circumstantially lynched and way laid
Not a word is murmured or said
Though it has remained age old weapon
It has sharpness and effectiveness that of a pen
You can cook the story and make it to happen
You can lay a seized without weapons being sharpened
You can damn person without shot being fired at
He will crawl on ground when you finally get
He may repent for not following your line
He may think it would have been very fine
The world doesn’t move well with nice persons
They suffer rough weather or all odds in any season
The world has no room for complaints with solid reasons
It is good that they are not blamed and tried for treasons
Simple murder may give chance to critics
The character assignation may invite sarcastic
In both the cases the death is imminent
In such cases it is physical and prominent
Pastor in the pulpit, the Sanctuary, supposedly holier than thou,
Preachers wife is gunned down in cold blood, Ka-boom, Ka-pow,
Reverend’s son, a prior relationship, shoots step mom in the head,
Three on trial for murder might be more than the one already dead.
A love triangle and as any third grader can enlighten you in math,
Different kinds of geometrical shapes & they cannot be cut in half,
And yet this situation has added one so now it‘s more than plenty,
Tracy Bernard Burleson 46, at the time William Darnell Fuller 20.
Shared the same sexual encounter, Tyonne Marie Palmer-Pollard,
Here a lie there lie the trial’s underway, as all three were collard,
Tracy claims he & the Mrs. had an argument, he left to get chips,
There were no snacks but pastor said it already through his lips.
But that particular store closed before he got there which was at 10,
Maybe it was his guardian angle who picked the lock and let him in,
Okay, but what about the honey bee who was active with both men?
As Pauletta Burleson’s shot execution-style courtroom drama begins.
Main reason for the death via lead poisoning was her insurance money,
By the way, the church suspiciously burned down now isn’t that funny,
Case of he said, she said is there evidence enough for a jury to believe?
Who was the mastermind, who were the innocent one’s being deceived.
First New Mount Calvary Baptist Church, Huston’s 5th Ward, all is fine,
Week between its destruction and her death hey, it happens all the time,
It has been over a year and still no charges of yet in that devastating fire,
Bring out the charcoal, someone’s going to burn in this murder for hire.
Lust overtaking the anointed is nothing new remember Jimmy Swaggart?
Jim Baker gave her hush money while a man brought down Ted Haggard,
Rabbi Fred Neulander guilty paying two men to carry out a hit on his wife,
Incarcerated in Trenton, New Jersey, serving a prison term 30 years to life.
House of worship, communion, choirs, Praise God, what went wrong?
Was murder even necessary, settle out of court ok, just ask Eddie Long,
Ah, but this was no, “mega-church” times are hard and money was tight,
Therefore the one and only solution was homicide thru deception, right?
Five days later, Asifa's body was found.
After seeing her body:
"She had been tortured.
Her legs were broken, "
recalled Ms Naseema, who had rushed to the forest along with her husband to see the body.
"Her nails had turned black
and there were blue and red marks
on her arm and fingers."
Asifa was confined in a local temple
for several days and given sedatives
that kept her unconscious.
She was "raped for days,
tortured and then finally murdered".
She was strangled to death
and then hit on the head
twice with a stone.
Asifa was described as a "chirping bird"
who ran like a "deer".
When they traveled,
she looked after the herd.
"That made her the darling
of the community, "
"She was the centre of our universe."
(I have taken it from the newspapers and from the internet) .
My heart cries for her.
She is an angel among the purest of angels,
in the abode of a God who is beyond all religions.
I cry out in shame
As I watched my parents murder
I don’t think I’ll ever be the same
He is what I call my abuser
I rock back and forth
Waiting for him to find me
He started talking about the north
And I could have sworn me he could see
For he walked right to my hiding place
But walked away taking something with him
I needed to get out of this space
But I knew he was still here I couldn't chance that whim
So I waited
Each moment that passed a little piece of me disintegrated
I faded
I was slowly denigrated
I waited for two days
Not chancing that he was still here
So I counted the ways
To see per chance that my parents were still there
I am alone
Forgotten and broken
I will never see the love stone for it was thrown
I want my parents back even though the will never ever be woken
Mayra Lizbeth Rosales is accused murder but she is not court bound,
For she weighs a half ton in her body so round.
She is accused of killing her 2 year old nephew,
Eliseo Gozales, Jr. in Edinburg,
No, not the one in Scotland;
the one in Texas.
(But an autopsy revealed that Eliseo's injuries were 'consistent with blunt force trauma' and that Mayra Rosales'
- explanations were inconsistent with the injuries.
The autopsy found multiple skull fractures on the forehead and upper and lower rear parts of Eliseo's skull. The autopsy also found fractures that were estimated to be about a month old, Trevino said.)
The Toddler was dead.
Jaime Rosales, the mother of the toddler,
Should’ve known better but refused to --,
Do So,
My question for is, barring the beating and consequently the death of her son,
“How do you leave 2 year old with bed ridden person that weighs a ½ ton,
that has medical of her own,
And is not physically able to meets the needs of anyone including herself? ”
De-de-de Carlos Mencia would say.
The authorities charged Jaime with child endangerment upon leaving her son,
With her aunt.
So what is?
Mayra is not able to go to court,
and then I say bring court to her,
Prosecutors have to work out how Mayra Rosales will be detained and prosecuted because she weighs nearly 1,000 pounds.
She is unable to fit through a door to leave her home.
As of Thursday evening, she was not in custody.
Bring Jenny Craig in, have subjected to 'Deal a Meal'
Have her eat a meal with vitamins, bread and water
We computers and court recorders to bring depositions to court,
Then why not do the actions in reverse.
Justice shall not be denied for little Elisio,
Maybe the state should put Mayra under a strict diet,
That in a way to help her fit through the court doors on her own,
It’s a sad case but she has to pay the price;
It’s a sad case but society has to pay the price of defending her.
(8-23-08)
I don't care what you say
I don't care how much you deny it
You can't dance your wicked way around the truth anymore
More and more everyday
A crime is being committed
No use in lying, crying or pretending that it ain't happening
Birth control is murder
There!
I said it!
And no way will I take it back
Smothering God's plans for your body beneath your own selfish will is just not right
It's just not holy
It's a sin
That's what it really is
Plain and simple
If you don't want a baby, then for sure there must be something wrong with you
Cos no normal woman would want to take wait or take the chance that never have another shot at that dream
A dream that so many women scream, cry and would even die for
That's why I can't
I just can't understand how so many of you young women can be so selfish
So selfish and cruel that you would't give up a mere 9 months to carry a baby for another woman
No, instead you want to keep that perfect body for your own purposes
No, you would rather spit upon the hopes and dreams of your fellow childless women
Birth control is................MURDER!
Tell me ladies
Just when you are gonna get that through your thick selfish heads?
2008 Ramona Thompson
Sharpton and Jackson..both Reverends
…Silent on the subject…but hounds
Posturing..politicizing…yet nary a word
Not even a visit..to the 'Burial Grounds'
The happenings a 'ghetto' phenomena
...Historically…without any doubt
Black on Black murder…prevalent
Despicable…as Giuliani points out
Snide though..Rudolph's observation
….Who was once a prosecutor himself
His heritage……….Italian-American
…Ethnic to the Gangsters themselves
Citizens whose subsistence demanded
Their joining some criminal mob
…Keeping food on the family's table
‘Twas the Gangster's nefarious 'job'
Which required annihilating one another
… Documented….it's factually true
Staking territory…mowing folks down
….Killing….ain't a damn thing new
‘Tis society's..latter-day…analogy
Black on Black murder…..addressed
Whatever resolve altered Italian behavior
..May Black…on Black murder..be blessed
Author's Note:
In the immediate aftermath of the Ferguson tragedy, and New York City's "chokehold" death, much has been countered, and questions raised in stark criticism with regard to the unabated crisis of Black on Black murder within the confines of the Black Community. Indeed we have seen a pattern of civic irresponsibility shamelessly on display, as the Clergy and Politicians of the area deliberately ignore the generations-old travesty daily playing-out before their very eyes. On its face, the complaint is a valid indictment in the wake of countless finger-pointing demonstrations, and riotous behavior as witnessed in varied communities across the United States. A closer look suggests an even deeper egregiousness, politically complicit, spiraling downward from the Highest Offices of Government, in blatant reluctance to legislate an effective end to this cancerous malady.
The poem "Black On Black Murder…..Addressed" recalls the days of the "Prohibition Era, " where through economic necessity, crime became the 'Gangster' way of life amongst a small minority within the Italian Community. Today's Black on Black violence, its attendant economic causations, the movement's desperate few; are all historically reminiscent of the ethnic pain of the distant past. The Congress of the 1930's, once realizing the error of its ways, enacted legislation legalizing the root cause of the economic woes of the day, abruptly putting an end to the 'Gangster' spectacle of, "White on White" murder.
With anticipation the drama
That unfolded
Turned and stared into
The devil’s eyes
I felt something or someone
Lurking in the shadows
One does not talk about
The truth or of him
Under the bed of his
Dead daughter
Now shame in fort of
His daughter
There will be NO trouble
The darkness had lent
Me slip away
Lighting of the torches
Danced off crosses of
Pins and needles
Need the cover of darkness
To hind your death
Placed my faith in to a old friend
Lived in harmony with
The good and the bad
Leaving a trail of tears
It too late
Wish I never been born
And burn for eternity
As for the innocence;
with which by you it' Is for long, it was so lost;
The by and meek each my possession do not do it again
when we meet again, next week.
which goes and now I mind,
my back in front of he whom wears the black to you, i turn.
With your, by my murder and hers you simply,
thought i would and as for that...
For the other little me,
whom all do not do as me as for her sisters mercy,
because of you I can't ask for mine,
You ask; when you did not of me,
and thinking back you should have what, by now can you think?
I beg pray tell for what, ....As for Their' that which finds my ear;
There is no desire because of how and why 'you for the'...
and where it was I am...I am no more...
their is mercy shown you....at all small; her my/me it once...
inside your moon was always full....now it's empty 'dear'......
...............
Innocence is lost by you and it is gone,
and now we have no soul.
memories built on lies it's better, known.
Simply by your killing, it wont make me whole
I Beg for her mercy, but she can't find my ear
There is no hope at all for you my little evil 'dear'
There is not a man on this planet at whoms feet
I will get down and ever kneel too,
I simply am not that noble of a man.
But a woman that is full of grace, would I pull the
heavens from her sun.
26 February 2010
Master artist, drawing cartoons,
Risky resistance for liberty of ideas,
For the highest freedom of expression.
Fatwaas, death threats, intimidation,
On hit list, dwelling fired, bombed;
Failed to deter their art and vision.
Wonderful souls, adept art of comedy;
Loved a laugh on themselves,
Abhorred extremism, violence and terror.
In-habituated in safest democratic spaces,
Unmindful of their own security and safety;
Wished a world, free, safe and secure.
Charlie Hebdo will carry on to its voice,
For freedom, free and fear less pen,
Unmindful and un-sacred of death at their doors.
Only souls blessed, can be a cartoonist;
But any un-civilized, insane, barbaric;
Can be a terrorist and slaughterer.
Wrong is the faith, not the men;
Innocents, taught in madarsas and  mosques;
Indoctrinated as murderers most foul.
N.B: This poem is a tribute to the brave and bold journalist and cartoonist of French magazine ‘Charlie Hebdo' who were massacred by Islamic terrorists in Paris and condom the barbaric massacre of cartoonists.
Pretty eyes wide
With a sweet innocent stare
Lips that whisper and pout
I had no idea
That he was such a dangerous man
I'm just a victim
A witness to a mad man's love
But is she really or....
Did she get away with murder?
Angel or devil?
Who is the real Amber?
Hiding behind those tears
Does there lurk a killer's lie?
Was Scott the only one?
That Lacy could not trust
What about the blonde temptress?
Standing in the shadows
Did she get away with murder?
Sinner
Saint
What will time come to reveal?
Will we ever know?
Or do we listen only
To what she would like us to believe
The angel with the devil's eyes
Did she get away with murder?
For a fatal affair
2 paid
With their lifes
Gone too young
Too soon
How could this lady have not known?
Just what pain she would bring
Or was that her plan all along?
To get rid of her competiton
Amber Frye-Did she get away with murder?
This is it,50th and C Streets
Damn school's crumbling down
Right down around our knees
See them apartments, them over there
With all them nailed up boards
Covering all the windows and doors
Well, it sure as hell aint a home
No, not for nobody no more
Yeah, happened right over there
'Bout 3 AM heard someone say
Well, just two queers out late
Okay two trannies, it's all the same
All right, whatever, two transsexuals, okay
Ukea and Stephanie, yep, that's the names
Sure, 'course they did, just a sec, wait
Ukea Davis and Stephanie Thomas, okay
Well, just sittin' in their car, no, weren’t walkin’
18 and 19, yeah, just kids, sittin', talkin’
Semi automatic, each shot 10 times
Car came back twice, yeah a second time
Guess makin' sure they did it right
My kid huh, if my kid was like them
I'd throw ‘em out, disown ‘em
Don’t like them kinda’ people, alright
Yeah, I saw 'em around, in the neighborhood, why
I guess so, yeah, they were always nice
Yeah, they looked like girls, yep, always polite
Well, no, no one, not even trannies deserve to die
Not like that anyway, murdered execution style
But, they were queers, okay trannies, transsexuals, all right
Trannies oughta keep outa everyone’s sight
No one likes queers, okay trannies, transsexuals, right.
Do you suppose we take it for granted?
Naive, simple in our faith;
that values are still considered
truly important in daily life?
Do principles really matter?
Character and morality too?
Is the difference between good and evil
fundamental to me and you?
When Henri Deux took the crown from Stephen
he fathered the dynasty of Richard and John;
those two ambitious brothers
couldn't fathom right from wrong.
A conflict deviously developed
between English Church and State;
King quarelled with the Archbishop
and rashly began to prate...
Overheard by the ears of Knights-errant
murder most foul their eventual deed;
'cause his majesty forgot to mention
how such a devout soul was deemed.
While Sire loved him as a brother;
firm friendship:  false fickle failed...
public penance performed most brutally
at the shrine hence 'The Canterbury Tales'.
Do you suppose we took it for granted?
Naive, simple in our faith;
The Prince had acquired the wisdom
to care for his maiden wife?
For they do well who mourn her
when in answer to their prayers:
A King perform public penance
for the Queen of Hearts most fair.
For the Revd Paul S Williamson who bravely spoke out
about broken tradition within the monarchy.
France
April 2005
The good Lords commandments have been cast to the side,
If you commit murder there's no need to hide,
We no longer heed the words of our God,
With self-interest society has become overawed.
Material goods are more important than health,
Regardless of how you obtain that wealth,
Stealing by force is now classed as routine,
Our society is in the worst state it's ever been.
All religions dictate, thou shalt not kill,
It's a commandment we humans can't seem to fulfill,
Of killings there's always an endless supply,
We've an insatiable appetite to watch others die.
Be it in wars or through mindless disputes,
Violence towards others is what it recruits,
If someone's being killed we just stop and stare,
Fact is nowadays we no longer care.
We see it daily while watching the news,
It's a crime that some lawyers try to excuse,
We no longer see murder as a heinous act,
It's looked on as minor that is a sad fact.
Violence towards others is a daily routine,
We will turn away to avoid being seen,
If you don't enjoy violence you are way out of tune,
From murder and mayhem we've become immune.
From an early age we learn all about death,
How to make someone take that final breath,
From computer games to movies of hate,
Our thirst for killing we find hard to abate.
We're taught that it's wrong but we don't seem to hear,
The destruction of others we no longer fear,
We look upon murder as a way of life,
It doesn't bother us it be it with gun or a knife.
There's no deterrent to killing another,
Conscience nowadays is so easy to smother,
A luxury prison will be your reward,
What happened to living and dying by the sword?
A few years in jail and soon you'll be free,
That's not a punishment I'm sure you'd agree?
Killing for fun is now classed as the norm,
Then the victims are told you need to reform.
While they and their families find it hard to live on,
The perpetrators complain they feel put upon,
By pandering to murderers we encourage their crimes,
Laughing at killing is a sign of the times.
Unless we change now our society will fail,
We'll no longer bother putting murderers in jail,
The decent will be scared just to be alive,
Lawlessness and anarchy are what we'll see thrive.
If you're honest you'll be classed as totally insane,
Then cast to the side if you dare to complain,
Society as we know it will no longer exist,
The good among us will no longer be missed.
It's to future generations this legacy we endow,
Killing others means nothing, it's happening now,
If you think it's okay then you're totally dense,
‘' For The Crime Of Murder There Is No Defence ‘'
His name his Sukhendu, my tuition teacher of high school
Fair skinned and medium in height whose surname to mention here is
Unnecessary, he is extremely thin, seemed to me he was suffering
From malnutrition but his mind was sharp like razor in mathematics
And science, I saw his father to pull rickshaws under the scorching sun
Of June-July and in the extreme cold of December and January he pushed
Goods carrying van, he told me he had only one hope in life that is to see
His son to pass through colleges and universities which his son did with
Distinction though they did not have electricity connection to their house
Even though they lived at the center of the town but to his father son was light
He used to stare at the North Star and pray to god for his son to get a job,
He delighted first time after long time gap learning upon that his son
Got a job –interview -call, he appeared in front of the interview board
And later learnt that he stood first and the chairman of the board
Promised him the appointment, no worry, in what way the wind blows
He immediately gave us a treat with sweets, and we, too, were all glad.
But alas! Some else was woven for his fate. the other members of the board
Took huge bribes from a financially efficient candidate and gave him the appointment
Next morning we woke in the morning not with crowing of crow of cock
But from the wailing sound from my tuition teachers house for the reason that
Our beloved teacher hanged himself up with a rope and he is dead. Later I thought
His life could have been saved if the government school service commission
Would have been constituted before or surely he would have got a school teacher job
If he would alive after the formation of the above said commission, but my assumption
Turns out false when I see brilliant students are kept out and mediocre students
Have been taken in through nepotism and blatant corruption, that day they
Murdered one star this time garment kill few thousand suns.
Abundance of fear
a murder of crows gather
scatter shadows bare
I'll tell you what is wrong with me
I hope you will not weep
Happy dreams of marder are enchanting my nights sleep
Nothing wakes me late at night sedatives stopped all that
I wouldn't even wake up if you hit me with a bat
My dreams are filled with bloodshed the massacre won't stop
I can't restrain the pleasure i gain from spilling every drop
I've killed the guys who've pissed me off every worthless sot
Killed Franks, and Jeffs, and many Bobs, and a guy whose name was Lott
My method is machine gun as they lined up in their cue
Perhaps they are all lawyers thinking i'm the next they'll sue
Maybe the media has trained me to be
Less sensitive to my fellows humanity
Or maybe i have inherited a relatives insanity
No matter what the truth is i chalk it up to fate
It's better to marder in your sleep than dream of a face you hate
Happy dreams of marder are giving me good nights rest
Nightmares filled with violence excite my heart the best
Happy dreams of Marder are where my nights are mired
It's silly but i dream of killy
When im truly tired
Beau Golden
1988
anger is better
than pity
killing yourself
is out of the
question
at this moment
under rage
you want to kill
rather than
be killed
voila loneliness
is murdered.
I MURDER hate by flood or field,
Tho' glory's name may screen us;
In wars at home I'll spend my blood—
Life-giving wars of Venus.
The deities that I adore
Are social Peace and Plenty;
I'm better pleas'd to make one more,
Than be the death of twenty.
I would not die like Socrates,
For all the fuss of Plato;
Nor would I with Leonidas,
Nor yet would I with Cato:
The zealots of the Church and State
Shall ne'er my mortal foes be;
But let me have bold Zimri's fate,
Within the arms of Cozbi!
We must all stay aware…..,
Of the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder….,
It’s been increasing for years….,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Can’t dare turn our backs….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
It’ll sneak up and kill us…,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
It’s hard to believe and conceive….
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
That’s why so many are blind….,
To the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder …! ! !
We’ve seen the bloody attacks…..,
Of the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
So we must face the facts….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Yes they’re after us all…,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….,
Their radical religion condones it….,
The Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder ….! ! !
Can we control it or stop it….,
So it won’t go any further….? ? ?
That’s the billion-dollar question….,
On the Insane Culture Of Mass-Murder …! ! !
When you take away a life
With the aid of a knife
It is murder
While you extinguish the living with a gun
Without being able to recreate what was born
It is murder
If you feed someone dead tablets
Later have second acrimonious regrets
It is murder
You are taking away a life
It is clinging on to survive
Need I say anymore further
It is murder
Murder sprung by a fling
With ropes or a string
Your hands only bring
Death around a necks ring
Execution by suffocation
Condemned with abomination
Deliberate foetus termination
It is murder
Make no mistake,
Be careful
Asleep or awake!
Murder is unlawful
If death occurs  because of the effects of an evil curse
I will say this with my lips pursed
'What a great loss, but this is not murder!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Poeple say god took you away
But it was life that took you on that horid day
I hear our song and think of your smile
Why can't you come back and stay awhile
When you were here everything was okay
I'll be your Romeo. You'll be my Juliet.
You'll be so beautiful, So charming.
Lying dead in my room.
I lost touch with my hand, and the knife in your back.
Murder me
Murder with your love
murder me with you lies
You commit murder when I look in your eyes
You tell me over and over you love me
why can’t we just live our lives
Murder commits suicide
Kill or be killed
No choice but to murder
Love is murder in the making
When you tell a person you love them
its murder in the 3rd degree
Rip me open from the inside
Until everything falls apart
The hurt just won't go away
Until it's everything I fear
You are everything I hate
Put me under your spell
Until I can't escape
Beware simple mortals
In man's stupidity
And devils trickery
Love, lust, infatuation
Obsessions, Sadness
Intoxication, rage
Confusions, misunderstandings
Loneliness, hatred
Bitterness, revenge
Unfaith-ness, dishonesty
Greed, misfortunes
Jealousy, envy,
Anger, stress, pressure
Have all caused hands
To take away God's creation
And embrace the seed of Satan
Better known as murder.
24th August 2009 Eyan Desir
Copyright © ® Eyan desir. All rights reserved
Murder the great sin
That commits only by humans
For petty reasons, and quarrels
Murder highly deplorable always.
Murder a horrendous crime
The tough criminals indulge
Where law of the land trials
And punish the guilty, law insists.
Designed murders on vengeance
Extremely cruel always
Where man changes himself as beast
And takes weapons against enemy
Commit the crime without pity
Humanity fails its nobleness.
Let us desire for a peaceful society
where murders are not an incident
An event to mourn and lose to family
We are supposed to live in unison.
we have lived too long,
too well by murder and blindness!
what else can you call it?
when the hand chops off the foot,
and paints the face of an enemy...
when the fingers
allow the toes to starve...
and trees and mountains
stand in line weeping,
waiting to view the casket!
I can see through your wet panties,
that whores like you wear on purpose.
Boobs full of milk and long fat hard on's.
I can feel you on top sliding high up and down,
before you,
I diced up and murdered.
Getting caught,
I will not,
its never enough to get my thrills.
Crisco butter, coconut oil with some of the colonel's
fried chicken,
Moist red lips, that I close with a  smack.
Snorting coke your glazed eyes, smoking weed,
your fast on my trip, power moves.
Eye's that can't open,
that I squeezed shut with my middle finger.
Green metal that glows bright pink, then red,
deep down inside,
I am sawing back and forth with my dull knife.
Murder and Sex and more sex, life with me stops,
committing sow drawn out murder.
Moving she gasps,
bipolar she goes moving to fast she let's off of the gas,
he says let's go.
The future is bleak as it crawls slowly past,
so fast that you missed your last show.
Words that shock, eating my fill, your face is like paste,
Your black bony asses is like glass, I see through.
I learned it all on T. V. growing up and to see,
him beating her up,
while she on top, holds him down.
Murder and sex,
drugs and murder and sex, rock and roll.
Way out in the sticks, n the country, my guns in their rack,
white pick up trucks.
I was to young,
and she was to obviously broken.
Wild both of us knew that nothings free,
neither one of us like some of the rest none were spared.
To die, O so young, to die, O so young,
but like mom and dad, die we did.
The day is dying
Its bright blood smeared
On the azure blanket
See its light blinding no more
The orb resting its head on the horizon
Of salty diamonds
The clouds wipe the blood
Screaming to the heavens
As the birds moan in agony
Fleeing the incoming darkness
Of the murdering night
I can see the glowing smile of the moon
Her breath chilling
As she glares enviously
While a million knowing eyes
Watched silently, shivering in fright.
The sun succumbs to its death
Drowned by the rising tide
The night howls in triumph
And covers the land with its sickly glow
And we surrender to its call
Close our eyes and wait for the sun to return
The majority of Americans abhor conflict, especially war
Some carry placards and parade in protest
Some join militia groups
Most do nothing
Yet, everyone supports war
How?
By electing corrupt and hawkish politicians
By paying taxes that support military expansion
By accepting and believing corporate media propaganda
By buying and eating genetically modified and fast food
By sending our children to schools that are nothing more than public daycare
By allowing banks to plunder retirement savings and steal homes by foreclosure
By allowing Wall Street skullduggery, with no accountability or arrests
By allowing the invasion and occupation of Sovereign Nations
By being ambivalent and complacent to the destruction of a once great Nation
Yes we are all guilty of murder by association;
Murder of Planet Earth
Murder of each other
Murder of our children
Worst of all…Murder of our soul
ROTMS
Well if you wanted honesty,
Thats all you had to say.
I never want to let you down,
It's better off this way.
Have you heard the news that I'm dead.
As I lay in warm red?
But you just stood there motionless,
As I layed there and bled.
Can you hear me cry out to you,
Words I thought I'd choke on?
But my Black Parade is coming,
This is the round you won.
You can preach all you want,
Who's going to save me?
When I say I'm goign to die,
You just stand there and breathe.
I can tase the metallic blood,
And bone shards from my head.
As my life slowly drifts away,
Oh can you feel the dread.
But your the one who caused all this,
I'm gone because of you.
I don't want you to cry for me,
I'm not crying for you.
Well if you wanted honesty,
That's all you had to say.
I never want to let you done,
It's better off this way.
Amy S.
Done for Eng. Strats.9 and for Claire..... I miss you!
Part's by My Chemical Romance/ The Black Parade
I might as well teach myself something useful
And learn to love to hate you well
Then wait to kill you with broken hands
And I wonder, what's a better death?
And can I watch your face
As I kill myself in front of you?
Have my screams run through your veins
The only way to make you not forget me
My blood is on your hands.
There was a time forgetting was better
Now it's more satisfying to watch
Myself die in your sight.
Murder - Cinquain
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Murder
Horror in world
Bleeding, atrocious crime;
Throws to the deep hell, the abysm
Souls pained.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza| 16 November,2017
Some say she's bitter,
some say she's sweet.
They know her by her shimmer,
Oh how sometimes her crime can be so neat.
She makes her enemies real slick,
she makes her friends so easily.
Although her enemies slaughter is real quick,
but she's a generous person, really.
The murder in her eyes
reveals her disguise,
The taste of her enemies blood,
she cannot recognize.
She seeks for revenge
For only those who caused her agony and avenge.
The murder shows who she truly is.
The sweet girl with a bloody blade in her hand.
Her enemies dead body laying on the floor
as she laughs and hounds as her enemies body rots to the core.
The murder in her eyes is severe...
Something that nobody dares to conquer
They laughed at her in the past,
She knew their life's wouldn't last.
The murder in her eyes hides the tides of her personality
for her enemy's, she loves to rec their reality.
No one ever thought she could do that.
Until they saw her true disguise which showed the murder...
Murder in her eyes.
He went to a public library that's quiet and free;
Arrested, he was, for  murder,  in the first degree;
Inside the library, there was a book to find,
Slowly he approached his victim, an ol' woman who's kind;
Close to her backside,  he stood lurking behind,
Little ol' granny was reading and paid him no mind;
Yep, the aroma in the air was coming from her hair,
Caused his nose to quickly twitch, bulge, then flair;
The quick use of his weapon caused her to drop dead on the spot,
It was the eyeball witness who saw, that's how he got caught;
Now the jury must see the weapon that t'was horribly used,
But the killer tried to hide his nose and loudly refused;
Cause of her death came from his loud sharp sneeze,
Made her heart quickly stop, quiver, and seize;
So his hands were shackled, the murder weapon viewed,
The jury gasped loudly for air, outraged was their mood;
Soon after his shnozzle was clearly depicted,
The jury was unanimous, ... they quickly convicted.
It is a murder most foul
And most unkindest cut of all.
O love don’t slaughter me,
Even before I see the first ray
A ray of hope and life gay.
Killed even before I come to senses,
Womb to grave deep by those bloody hands,
Who brought me here,
Last laugh on my slaughter,
For world’ temptations it is all theater.
I am not a wild goose, hunted so ruthlessly.
Communist, socialist, secularist,
Left and right,
Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and cross,
All united in this dross.
No quota of caste, creed and religion,
All secular in this social justice,
A great national unity in this slaughter.
A creation of love and fragrance,
But reserved hate for this hidden star.
Thoughts vicious, process brutal,
To pick one and kill one,
Favorite for social liberation,
Pretend to opt the best,
But truly it is the worst.
A curse to our progress,
For jealous souls it is all theater,
Again parody of love,
Cheek to cheek and breast to breast,
Two pigeons in one nest.
Again theater of absurd,
And again I am a shuttle cock,
At the mercy of love dogs,
Life lost in silent cries,
O God! Save Oh! Save.
From:
DR. YOGESH SHARMA
The Man spoke:
'It is in the murdering' he said
that I find the most puzzlement.
Why should I or anyone not murder
one and all. It is, I think, human's basic instinct.
'Look' he said to the priest 'is not all of history;
more a story of murderous war than peace and tranquility?
'So what is most common to human nature?
Seems clear to me, humans murder their fellows, rest up during the peace
and, as soon as possible, get back to the murdering.'
The priest:
'Murder is wrong in God's eyes and in the eyes of society and
the murderer will pay with fire and brimstone, and the death penalty.
Ending murder is the bedrock of all society, even pirates have a code
that says don't murder your fellows.
Humm, said the man 'Society has several faces; it is ok to murder in war, but
not in peace. Where here is the consistency?
Even your God says do not take life but vengeance is mine and murdering in retaliation, he says, is mine. Seems murder is at best relative; sometimes the act of the monster and sometimes the act of the hero in war.
Who decides which is which; and I tell you father I see no hand of God in this but that of politicians. And no one will mistake them for God.
The Sociologist spoke then:
Well, here the point is clear; we kill those who threaten the peace and make society impossible by preying upon the weak. Without restraint bandits and warlords would rule, look abroad Iraq, Afghanistan and the rest. Rule by guns and by the strong is a recipe in the end for mankind's extinction. Therefore, we have the rule murder is not only bad, but stopping murder promotes the good.
The Little Girl:
I think God, and society makes murder bad to protect the children. I think God and society makes things crimes to protect us from adults who would be cruel and leave no one to grow up to inherit this earth.
The Democrat:
There lies the convincing point. Murder is bad because not murdering gives the species a better chance at survival. What species eat their young and have survived? None.
But the larger point is I think is that the genius needed for society to meet all its challenges cannot be predicted. Therefore, all must be preserved because no one can predict from where, or whom, critical keys to human survival will evince.
Take Einstein: who would have made the prediction that a math-challenged youngster would change the world? No one. So the point, kill no one since you are not God and can't know where human salvation will come from.
The Priest said:
Yes, and imagine the world, if Jesus had lived.
A man seeks revenge,
A widow cries,
A death to avenge,
A lawyer that lies,
What shall we do?
We take a stand for what is right,
We look through proof with reason,
We seek to end a fight,
We send him to prison,
guilty, guilty guilty.
Who is the guilty one?
The man in the chair?
Or is it the father of this son?
Or is it the ones that never did care?
execution execution, execution.
Our job is done,
Two men are dead,
Justice has won,
All but one thing is said,
hypocrite, hypocrite, hypocrite.
Kill me,
Jump Me,
End my life like I care,
Take this gun and shoot me,
Don’t look,
Don’t Stop,
Just murder me,
Just end my life tonight,
As I no longer care,
Or dare to speak of his name,
Or cry out his name in vein,
Murder me,
Murder me here,
Just end it now,
End my suffering,
Make it go away,
Just help me from feeling this rage inside of me bursting to get out,
Please kill me here,
Take this knife and murder me.
Murder me
Murder with your love
Murder me with you lies
You commit murder when I look in your eyes
You tell me over and over you love me why can’t we just live our lives
Murder commits suicide
Kill or be killed
No choice but to murder
Love is murder in the making
When you tell a person you love them its murder in the 3rd degree with a guilty plea
25 years to life with no college degrees No chance you’ll ever be paroled
Murder
Murder Me
Music some time
Murder about me...
At my dream
Thril and...
Thril...pop or Rap
Music on radio
At my sleeping time day
Or night
Murder at my sleep...
I did not Breath normal
Breath...
With with out my sweet
Dreams and sleep...!
It was a mystery right from the first
A murder had occurred you understand
It happened right in the Bissell mansion
A sight that is beautiful and grand
Everyone looked at one another
For who was the one to suspect?
Was he or she right beside us?
Nervousness was what we started to get
We ate our four-course dinner together
As though nothing had gone astray
The food was truly exceptional
And we didn’t have a single delay
But someone had killed our hero, Andy
And it couldn’t just be dismissed
Oh yes, we all loved this wonderful sheriff
He would definitely be forever missed
You want a little excitement, folks?
And blend right in with the plot
A murder mystery dinner theatre
Entertainment that we enjoyed a lot!
There's a murder crows following me.
What did they see, why did they pick me,
Do they see anguish, turmoil and torment,
Or do they see innocence, joy and content,
Was it what I'd done, or was what I said,
Or are they just messing about, with my head,
Was it how I looked, or was I looking at them,
Or were they just looking for someone to condemn,
Why can't they leave me, and just fly away,
And leave me in peace for ever and a day,
There's a murder crows following me,
What did they see, why did they peck me.
© 2010
Brian J Stafford
For an attempt to begin such verse
I must abstain from any meter.
There has also been a murder of rhythm,
Amongst the other sentiments.
I declare it to be
A delusional tragedy
Sung infused with disgust
And the immortal grief.
They rejoice their happy songs
When I still ask back my sanity.
As I look at my unlucky stars
The dimmest in the skies lying far
Look within me now
And see how empty people are!
How people are who feed on themselves
How are those who have lost their senses
Whose dreams demise
Like the summer morning dew
And whose desires are trampled
In demonic trenches.
I am amongst those who pray in the graveyard
I am the one who breathes in death
I drown away in the river of my pain
To slaughter my sentiments again.
Dying is easy for the courageous
So I let my sentiments die.
I have forgot what is normality
And also forgot what was my.
I have escaped from the war
And I am out of the line
Torn between two worlds
Real, and the divine.
I see flesh, I see blood
Of my sentiments and my own
Flowing from far forgone.
Revenge is uninvited
But together we shall be.
I murder my sentiments
And they, murder me.
My husband loved me, pity the fool,
We met when I was young,
When I was eager to please,
And grateful for his love,
He meant the world to me,
But we both changed,
And my love turned to hate.
It meant to much at the start,
But he grew bored,
Of my ageing body,
Of my belly that wobbled,
And the wrinkles,
That came to dominate my face,
My once golden complexion,
Lost in the sands of time.
My husband's loyalty faded,
His heart grew cold,
As did mine,
I would cook dinner,
I would fix breakfast,
And please him as best I could,
All the while plotting revenge,
For those extra-marital affairs.
He made a mockery of me,
He humiliated me,
And lied to me,
But to the outsider,
I was none the wiser,
Playing the sad and sorry fool.
He deserved pain and death,
To know how it felt to be betrayed.
So I went online,
With the few computer skills I had,
And managed to trick my way,
To a vial of cyanide.
Tonight we will have the talk,
And I will pretend to forgive him,
Of my ageing body,
And a face lost without youth,
And when the authorities come,
They will not know the truth.
He will have had a heart attack in bed,
His head,
Lying on the pillow dead,
His heart knowing how it feels,
To be broken,
The son-of-a-b*tch dead,
Gone forever.
But the police are here now:
They have discovered what I did,
Even though I did fabricate a story,
I will now rot in a prison cell,
My husband's body cold in the ground,
And I shall reflect on the hate,
That destroyed a lifetime of marriage.
It comes upon me, time and time again.
It's the grand finally my friend.
A Wicked poker game with all decadent men.
All holding out till the last minute.
Oh who's gonna win?
Is it another bluff?
Fiction or fantasy.
Oh baby rolling with the ecstasy.
Trial by the nights of pitch black sky.
Some say suicide,
Some say you never wanted to die.
Only god truly knows' why.
Denial and prejudice at the same time.
The judge and jury in a flurry attack.
The poor man had no time to react.
26 stab wounds creates a bloody mess.
You try to clean it up to your best, but with out success.
Vengeance for life.
No one will come see you.
Not this time you've done yourself in.
Let the punishment fit the crime.
Passionate or not,
a plea of temporary insanity with not an ounce dignity.
Cigarettes burns to the eye.
Pissing on the body as it burns and getting pleasure out of it.
A socially path, a sick son of a b*tch in which their no cure for.
Your keeping score after each murder.
Some would call you a serial killer.
I call you a soul stealer.
A man stood in front of the judge
Stating his case, but they wouldn’t badge
He knew that he would never again be free
When the jury shouted- Guilty
He looked around the fickle room
And noticed there was not one inch of gloom
He looked around to find some truth
But only received words so uncouth
A tear dropp glistened in his eyes
To see the pain and a million lies
He walked out of the room, cuffed wrists
Seeing the culprit he bared his fists
He was in the wrong place at the wrong time
But now he’s in a place of grime
The year was nineteen fifty seven
He knew that day he’d go to heaven
He could never again discuss it further
As the death sentence was given for murder.
I’m not innocent.
I’ve never been innocent.
It was me.
It was I who painted the walls with their blood.
And I’m not sorry.
The thrill I get from it is immense.
I love the way they plead for their lives.
The way you have complete control over them.
Pretending you’ll spare them.
Then driving the weapon right through their body.
Their screams make my blood race with excitement.
Then I watch them bleed.
The crimson liquid spreads slowly across the ground.
It stains their clothes and anything else it comes into contact with.
I dip my hands in their blood and laugh.
It’s all so easy.
But it’s the best high I’ve ever had.
So I do it again.
And again.
And again.
Until THEY start to notice.
Then I’ll abstain for a short while.
I’ll go to another part of town.
And I’ll start all over again.
They call it murder.
But that’s silly.
I don’t call it murder.
I call it fun.
Murder!
To crack the culprit down;
Death!
With the showers of the dark side of life.
Murder! !
To capture the public's imagination;
To call out,
To capture the culprit.
Murder, dreaded form of death
One's life taken in his better days
Unfortunate thing happening
His hopes and aspirations left ever.
Murders, throughout the history
For power, money, hegemony brutal murders
Swords decided the fate of individuals
Mighty, and learned ones got murdered.
In great stories of William Shakespeare
We read about brutal murders
In the corridors of power, and struggles
The individuals in high esteem
Became the victims of murderers.
.
Upon the threshold, red-eyed Murder stands,
Fresh from his slaughter-house of human meat,
Blood on his broken teeth and on his hands,
Blood on his nails and on his purple feet.
With hollow voice he speaks, and sick'ning breath,
'A way there is, that only way is death!….
The dead will rise no more,-the dead are dead!
The spared will creep behind the sparer's back,
And breathe their plots and stab. The dead are dead!
And lie along the safe triumphal track.
The young-eyed babe, will lisp it's little tales.
The loving girl will slay her main in bed
Kissing his savage mouth, the victor fails
At Mercy's seat. The dead are safely dead'.
friendly and kind
was murdered in the
parkade of the suburban mall
when the thug assaulted the
hockey mom
and raped innocence
unleashing the hands that
wrought undying fear from
childish dreams
The diamond will
welcome toddlers
every year
the ice rink will nurture
Olympic hopes
Lacrosse champions
will arise
and disappear
Skis and poles will hit the slopes
Just down the block
another soul shatters
behind the loading platform
exit two officers talk
sadly just another day
by a suburban mall
What's there to say
often dollars don't pay
for soccer balls
My blood is boiling,
Centigrade, Fahrenheit,
It's all the same,
Tell me in who's bad name,
Do we get the right to kill?
Our History of Blood,
Going on, going on,
Still the same!
Scene playing in my Head
Every time Anger gets overfed
Screams inside making their way
To the outside…
where they Attack your face, and starts to play
And Hands…Stretching; Reaching your throat
To Grab it tight.
And Stop the Pain your words have brought
To hold the Air from going in…
The heart that you pretend…
Knows the Virtue…knows the Sin
Million times this Scene play
Where Sanity have no place to stay
Cause with Anger and Sadness
Happiness…Is murdered…
And the Mind…dancing in madness.
Sarah Ibrahim ©
Murder me
Murder with your love
Murder me with you lies
You commit murder when I look in your eyes
You tell me over and over you love me why can’t we just live our lives
Murder commits suicide
Kill or be killed
No choice but to murder
Love is murder in the making
When you tell a person you love them its murder in the 3rd degree with a guilty plea
25 years to life with no college degrees No chance you’ll ever be paroled
Murder
Murder Me
No one sleeps more beautifully than you.
But I am afraid
that you will waken just now,
and touch me with an indifferent glance, lightly passing,
and commit the murder of beauty.
1984
Translated by Albert C. Todd
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
I was abandon as a child.
I'm alone as a man.
The goodness of the damned.
Oh how I wish I had a plan.
Something set in stone.
With many regrets I walk this life feeling like a reject.
A failure all on my own.
I don't need no help from you never did.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
Their is poison in the water.
Their is treachery afoot.
Oh Oh just come look.
The blood has been spilt and they have no clue I did it you.
I don't even care if they did.
I'll take as many I can.
When everything has gone so wrong.
Sitting staring out the window with a revolver in you in hand.
What choices are left?
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
A nightmare of solutions unfold.
Each bloody as the next.
How can you ever truly live with it.
Settling for only second best.
The black knight ego's of arrogance.
Tunnel vision fills his eyes.
All he's after is the prize.
I doesn't matter who gets hurt on his way to it.
With deliverance I give you pain.
A message from someone who truly insane.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
And it is time for my greatest attack.
As if anyone should be proud of such a thing.
The sweat pours off my brow as I become the butcher of butchers.
A dissection of a living to dead body.
Someone help this man, oh please anybody.
The urges to kill won't stop.
They are all hes got.
Taking out all his sexual frustrations.
These escalation will only continue.
They will not just die.
Or move on to a paradise behind the next dawn.
No matter how hard I try.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
I feel nothing no more.
I don't know why.
I wish I could fix myself tonight.
I wish I could embrace love once again.
But wishes are nothing but useless thoughts.
The futility of the evil creature I am.
Hated by everyone.
So foul have I become.
A disease that can never be done.
Just kill me now.
To save so many.
Promise me, make your vow.
Cause I won't go down quietly.
I fight it for as long I can.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
All I see is things in shades of black.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
Murder - RARe Stanza
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Dig,
Dug;
Dead
Found,
Murderous crimes
Are weaving vague.
About
RARe Stanza:
- - - - - - - - - -
6 Lines Poem ─
Syllables Meter: 1-1-1-1-4-4
Rhyme Scheme: aabbca; ababca; aaaaba.
RARe Stanza refers Right Angle Reza Stanza.
Geometric Theoretical Explanation of ‘RARe Stanza'
The 1st 4 (1-1-1-1) lines stand on the last 2 (4-4) lines,
At the joining point, line No.4 and 5 there the 90º angle is generated;
The 90º angle is known as Right Angle in Geometry.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │27 April,2018
I’ll follow her home like psychosis,
And penetrate her dreams.
Destroy my own heart with this love.
Negotiate a ransom for her mouth,
Her religion is the sharpest hurt.
I know I’ll end up on the end of her cross.
Sit her into a broken embrace,
And push her against metal ropes.
I’ll let her watch me slit my throat.
Violence is nobody's leaven.
Murder will not get you to Heaven.
Not even if a Mollah
Calls out to Allah
And your lucky number is seven.
She was a gentle elderly lady
Who was always helping everyone, not shady
She tended to the sick and gave to the poor
She loved all so much, she was so pure
She had a cat, she loved so much
That was always in her lap, in her clutch
She left the garage door, cracked opened each day
She never worried about being another's prey
One day on the couch, she sat reading a book
When in her garage door entered a crook
She screamed and she cried, 'What are you doing here? '
He grabbed her by the throat and she was in great fear
He stayed and tortured her for so many hours
She was so overcome by his strenght and powers
I feel great sorrow as I write this story
Her murder was mother's day, much to his glory
I was at her trial, November of last year
And since her death, I've shed many a tear
He sat there glaring at us so proud
The picture's we saw, shouldn't have been allowed
I felt rage and grief and stared back at him
I hoped his outcome would be real grim
He said he was guilty when the judge asked how he pled
It took four days for the verdict to be read
I held my breath, while I awaited the sentence
I knew death should have been his pentence
The jury, they couldn't come to decision
The judge decided it would be life in prison
In Texas, that's not a long sentence to pay
You can get out in forty years, not another day
It was capitol murder and he should have got death
I will see he stay's in prison, till I take my last breath
The picture's that they showed, are etched in my mind
This animal shouldn't live among mankind
She is in heaven now, living with my mother
At least once more, they have one another!
Murder In Meditation - Haiku
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
From meditation
What they learn that provokes them
To murder human.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │2 March,2018
Murder mystery.
At last the killer’s name is...
revealed: but hides now
behind the blood on the page
my nose bleed lets him escape.
*******
Venetian blinds slice
your lovely nakedness with
sharp New York sirens.
*******
Venetian blinds change
your naked body into
a neon zebra.
*Author’s Note: It is not the intent to malign, nor denigrate the memory of the two
people who died tragically. Rather, the composition addresses brief periods of levity apparent during the course of the 1995 trial proceedings.
Extraordinary talent of such persuasion
…As Uelmen's...analytical mind
A finagling.........F. Lee Bailey
When the man is so inclined
Surreptitiously...Alan Dershowitz
…Of the faculty…at Harvard Law
Looking over Ito’s shoulders
In search…of some…appellate flaw
And the bag-man…Robert Kardashian
Shrewdly…in charge…of luggage checks
Carl Douglas and Peter Neufeld
……And his sidekick…Barry Scheck
And Johnnie Cochran….and Shapiro
….Legal sharpies….all perhaps
Quite...at home…and most at ease
With the concept…of courtroom craps
William Hodgman…somewhat psychic
Brilliantly…feigned…a heart attack
Then disappeared…to his upstairs office
Too damned smart…to ever…come back
Goldberg…Kelberg…Cheri and Woody
Every utterance…A poetic display
Of Shakespearean prose…in its glory
…No finer thespians in all L.A.
Then there’s Harmon…squeezing Charmin
Just in case…it gets too deep
And there’s the fellow…at the table
Who…so often…appears asleep
Forever doomed…to a living...nightmare
Of  Simpson’s greatest…commercial hit
Waving and smiling….before the jury
…Christopher’s gloves…just don’t fit
….There is not…an adversary
More formidable…than Marcia Clark
Which leaves one…somewhat…confused
And lost…completely…in the dark
……Most…of all…Gil Garcetti
Analyzing…his wayward scheme
What the Hell….is Darden doing
……….On anybody’s…legal team
Murder has for no time any verse
It has only curse and curse
Yet I have written a tercet for this hellish vice.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza | 7 November,2017
When the Lieutenant of the Guardia de Asalto
heard the automatic go off, he turned
and took the second shot just above
the sternum, the third tore away
the right shoulder of his uniform,
the fourth perforated his cheek. As he
slid out of his comrade's hold
toward the gray cement of the Ramblas
he lost count and knew only
that he would not die and that the blue sky
smudged with clouds was not heaven
for heaven was nowhere and in his eyes
slowly filling with their own light.
The pigeons that spotted the cold floor
of Barcelona rose as he sank below
the waves of silence crashing
on the far shores of his legs, growing
faint and watery. His hands opened
a last time to receive the benedictions
of automobile exhaust and rain
and the rain of soot. His mouth,
that would never again say 'I am afraid,'
closed on nothing. The old grandfather
hawking daisies at his stand pressed
a handkerchief against his lips
and turned his eyes away before they held
the eyes of a gunman. The shepherd dogs
on sale howled in their cages
and turned in circles. There is more
to be said, but by someone who has suffered
and died for his sister the earth
and his brothers the beasts and the trees.
The Lieutenant can hear it, the prayer
that comes on the voices of water, today
or yesterday, form Chicago or Valladolid,
and hands like smoke above this street
he won't walk as a man ever again.
Cold rain soaks my skin
eyes are sharp as whetted knives
perfect lethal plot.
I loved you
So i did something about it
I tore your shirt
I pulled your pants
We made love
And you ignored me
I felt upset
You made it worse
I loved you
You screwed me over
So i hunted you down
And gave you
What you deserve
SING A SONG OF SIXTH SENSE MAD OFF COURSE - MURDER GOOSE RHYMES
Sing sin's song of sixth sense, fink senators debating
unthinkingly of budget cuts, sink U.S. credit rating,
'n lies' between the 'lines' are seen with House and Senate fighting
while unemployed face winter cold, cold feet drag, Jack frost biting.
Four and twenty blackbirds from sky to pie swift falling,
men saw in Arkansas, elsewhere, bare facts scare were appalling,
upon the cusp Aquarian new age shows signs eroding
with governments across the globe progressively imploding.
Inflation's shadow grows apace, as tax cuts cut employment,
while talibans' attacks are answered - pullback redeployment,
nonsense world whirled as unfurled is future fate's implosion,
as blatant contradictions blow - soon G.O.P. explosion
will open evidence afford beyond the Kingdom Denmark
that something rotten's rolling stone - no candyfloss in ballpark -
no moss may gather as the world turns topsy-turvy spinning
with Gulliver in Lapata's Academy loss winning.
Multinational eggplants yoking humankind
led merry maypole goal dance prehensile non-aligned,
when humpty-dumpty causeway was crossed by bossy bears
namby-pamby Daddy Dow went stumbling down the stairs.
Harmonics multimodal, soap-opera crescendo,
unwinds dingbatty attitude advisers apprehendo,
though silly season willy-nilly spills baked beans on breadline
undertaking baking powder chowder readers red line.
Fuddy-duddy Fannie Mae haphazardly foreclosing
found Freddie Mac unsound and flat-on-back no sense proposing,
as oil recoiled blarney trefoil enchantingly unreachable
jabberwocky Chaney stabbed chained 'scooter', unimpeachable
Against the grainy libby_ration over understanding
a robbing hood good riddance pittance should be countermanding,
chainletters better expedite supercallifragile_realistic
witty ditty's pitiful room-service pugilistic.
From ice-age meltdown through freefall see mercury arising
Hyperion's coach-and-four from rail failsafe caved in surprising
Lehman's brother's leman's mother usually delightful
as shaving foam extinguished fame - 'twas positively frightful
Alaskan Palin failing fathoms five beneath Alaska
controversy no stranger danger daughter seemed - all ask her
for automobile autograph - she graphically contriteful
big mac govern awe's GMen string slipped pip-pipped tight-lipped spiteful.
Bear stern in turn returned to base, struck out by bye-bye ball game,
bull rearguard hammered hard by will-o-wisp fly-by-night hall of flame,
when burning Bush 'I ran' sung, wrung error's terror wrists,
what jeepers-creepers asinine free-flight fight came to fists?
Obama banner hammerhead shark lark sparked helter-skelter
mumbo-jumbo crisis miss mismanagement tax shelter
unmanning mad off course of course, as politicians plucky
pulled rabbit hat ten trillion bucks in style happy-go-lucky.
As unemployment double jumped from model runway soaring,
September's solstice embers stored statistics bubble boring,
sixth sense implies that summer rise waits fall's discomfort zone,
we'll doubletake time's themes prepare scheme's second-thought wishbone tone.
Warren Buffet's Muffet missed sitting on her tuffet,
Jack Horner tried to corner plums, in future he must rough it,
King's counting house, Queen's parlor, are missing honey money
for global speculation is discovered on the runny.
Catch 22 then toodeloo imagination's forté
fait accompli tee hee says hee seems fine for over forty,
polysyllabic rhetoric quicksilver conversation
linguistic highjinks jinx translates to teenage education.
Caterwauling cock-a-hoop, tuxedo troop atrocious
an omnibus adventure planned, canned headstrong band precocious,
rampaging bull in China store tries paging Beijing peeking
at soporific sibyls both back-pedalling, soft-speaking.
Objectively this ramble scrambles eggs, a-pulling legs begs
forgiveness for mixed metaphor before fast on its last legs,
eccentric verses self-contained, homemaiden's harmless frolic,
work just a while ere unjust trial turns tea total alcoholic.
Serendipity may witty city zen discover
if Serenghetti lioness miss taken is as lover,
but whether tether holds for bold or staggers hook-line-sinker
depends upon undress rehearsal's universal thinker.
So here godsend, as round the bend, we wend way, weigh wey, custard,
with four-and-twenty blackbird herd, unheard of stirred with mustard,
king-kong's in klong, all-clear appears, jeers end, cheers send solution,
call for clear rhyme not phantom mime, re_versing convolution.
22 September 2009 first three verses added 14 February 2010
robi3_1924_NRss1_0001 PWX_IJM
Parody Nursery Rhyme Sing a Song of Sixpence
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
SING A SONG OF SIXPENCE
Sing a song of sixpence a pocket full of rye,
Four and twenty blackbirds baked in a pie.
When the pie was opened the birds began to sing,
Oh wasn't that a dainty dish to set before the king?
The king was in his counting house counting out his money,
The queen was in the parlour eating bread and honey
The maid was in the garden hanging out the clothes,
When down came a blackbird and pecked off her nose!
Nursery Rhyme Author Unknown pseud NR Sing a Song of Sixpence
pseud NR Sing a Song of Sixpence NRss01_0001_NRss01_0000
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII
VIVE LA BAGATELLE
Sing a song of foolishness, laughing stocks and cranks!
The more there are the merrier; come join the ranks!
Life is dry and stupid; whoop her up a bit!
Donkeys live in clover; bray and throw a fit!
Take yourself in earnest, never stop to think,
Strut and swagger boldly, dress in red and pink;
Prate of stuff and nonsense, get yourself abused;
Some one's got to play the fool to keep the crowd amused!
Bully for the idiot! Bully for the guy!
You could be a prig yourself, if you would only try!
Altruistic asses keep the fun alive;
Clowns are growing scarcer; hurry and arrive!
I seen a crazy critic a-writin' of a screed;
'Tendencies' and 'Unities' - Maeterlinck indeed!
He wore a paper collar, and his tie was up behind;
If that's the test of Culture, then I'm glad I'm not refined!
Let me laugh at you, then you can laugh at me;
Then we'll josh together everything we see;
Every one's a nincompoop to another's view;
Laughter makes the sun shine! Roop-de-doodle-doo!
Gelett BURGESS 1866_1951
Parody Nursery Rhymes Sing a Song of Sixpence
burg01_0011_NRss01_0000 PWX_MXX
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
SING A SONG
Sing a song of spillage
A tanker's fouled the shore;
Four and twenty blackbirds -
They were white before, -
When the slick was syphoned
Some slime was sucked for sure,
But what remained no aid fund
could adequately insure!
Frank JACOBS Amended 23 July 2001 JR
Parody Sing a Song of Sixpence
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
SING A SONG OF JINGO
Sing a song of Jingo
(Chorus, fife and drum) .
Twenty thousand Arabs
Sent to kingdom come.
When the trouble's over
And glory's cup is full,
There'll be a pretty butcher's bill
To lay before John Bull.
Bondholders in the City
Are passing sleepless nights,
The Arabs in the Soudan
Are fighting for their rights.
The whole affair's a muddle
That daily thicker grows,
Why we e'er went into it
Is what nobody knows.
Author Unknown Parody NR Sing a Song of Sixpence
pseud H.B. c.1875
pseud H.B. PShb01_0001_NRss01_0000  PXX_JXX
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
AN ODE TO ALFRED AUSTEN
I sing a song of sixpence, and of rye
A pocketful - recalling, sad to state,
The niggardly emoluments which I
Receive as Laureate:
Also I sing of blackbirds - in the mart
At four-a-penniy.  Thus, in other words,
The sixpence which I mentioned at the start
Puchased two dozen birds.
So four-and-twenty birds were deftly hid -
Or shall we say, were skilfully concealed? -
Within the pie-dish.  When they raised the lid
What melody forth pealed:
Now I like four-and-twenty blackbirds sing,
With all their sweetness, all their rapture keen;
And isn't this a pretty little thing
To set before the Queen?
The money-counting monarch - morbid man; -
His wife, who robbed the little busy bees,
I disregard.  In fact a poet can
But pity folks like these.
The maid was in the garden.  Happy maid!
Her choice entitles her to rank above
Master and Mistress.  Gladly she surveyed
The Garden that I love!
- Where grow my daffodils, anemones,
Tulips, auriculas, chrysanthemums,
Cabbages, asparagus, sweet peas,
With apples, pears, and plums. -
(That's a parenthesis.  The very name
Of ‘garden' really carries one astray :)
But suddenly a feathered ruffian came
And stole her nose away.
Eight stanzas finished; So my Court costume
I lay aside: the Laureate, I suppose,
Has done his part; the man may now resume
His journalistic prose.
Anthony Charles DEANE 1870_1946
Parody NR Sing a Song of Sixpence and Alfred Austen
DEANE Anthony Charles 1870_1946 dean02_0003_NRss01_0000  PXX_JXX
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
SING A SONG OF DYNAMITE
Sing a song of dynamite -
What a mighty scare:
A London railway-station
In pieces in the air.
Bags and pistols, clockwork,
Nasty cakes of brown -
Weren't they dainty dishes
To find about our town?
Government and railway folks
Didn't think it funny;
They to find the plotters
Offered lots of money.
Perhaps across the sea they've gone,
In other suits of clothes;
Perhaps they're living quietly
Right under London's Nose.
Author Unknown Parody NR Sing a Song of Sixpence
pseud Jane JONES The Weekly Dispatch  13 April 1884
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
God makes the buds that blossom into flow’rs,
And flow’rs to form the seeds for newer plants;
God gives sun-light and bathes the roots with show’rs,
And nutrition, protecting them from ants!
God makes each species propagate on earth-
A mystery and wonder, all must take;
God takes care of their every want from birth-
Food, water, shelter, freedom from each ache!
God breathed life into clay and called it ‘man’!
And loved him, more than every creature made;
And made from him, his partner called ‘woman’;
His love for man (woman)   will never fade!
‘Abortion- murder, most foul, in the womb! ’
Should mothers turn the sacred womb, a tomb?
Lovingly dedicated to all good mothers who
God-willingly serve to maintain the human race.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 1-12-2008
The man in the locker room told me of their murders
'It is beyond evil.' he said.
Dave Franks a great preacher and good chaplain
at another time of sadness said:
'What an animal'
I can only sadly echo here:
'What an animal'
and shake my head in sadness
while trying to remember where
I have put my gun.
Ongoing the 21st century's free style massacre
The horrible morning has started there in Myanmar,
Satan is tormented by theses and has come down
To learn the massacring styles in special gown,
But no one has yet directly protested the bestiality
So the massacrers gigantically speed up in cruelty;
So long the morning! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
The massacrers are devouring the breakfast for long
With soft bloody flesh and red soup again and again
And preserving the rest for the future want in time;
I don't know when and where will be the noon?
And then when and where will be the evening?
And then when and where will be the cursed night?
For the final maelstrom and the devastating fight
Or shall the morning cover the whole day only?
And then when will a morning start peacefully?
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |08/28/2017
You go to your house of worship to your God to pray
But that your Government execute people with you is okay
When you tell me that all bad people deserve to die
Are you trying to say Moses Fifth Commandment is a lie?
You tell me you live in a democracy
But it does not seem too democratic to me
All murder is wrong that you do not deny
But in the laws of your Government a life for a life does apply
And since with so called lawful executions you wholeheartedly agree
You are guilty like many of hypocrisy,
The blessings of a God I do not ask to receive
But the death penalty is murder that's what I believe
And those who believe every murderer should be made to die
Without saying so are saying Moses Fifth Commandment is a lie.
Brought up in a prejudice dysfunctional household.
Took away the heart that once lived within your soul
Fiery eyes of a demon, a  prejudice beast
Live your heart, conjuring up a deploring feast
You’ve hurt, you’ve maimed, took education away.
Took bright eyes and turned them a shade of gray.
Many years took  its toile on the likes of you.
Bad heart, failed kidneys, time to pay your dues.
You reside in a room on the other side of town.
No one visits, no one cares, you sit wearing a frown.
Time to think and reflect while your body breaks down
No legacy to leave, you failed all around
The same people you despised, harbored hate for years
are the people who now console, dry your tears.
Why waste your time in this blessed life,
to create heartache, hate and contribute to ones strife.
Remember what you give out, you get back ten times more.
Father time will surely visit, come walking through your door.
Pick yourself up, start now before it’s too late.
Stop the cruelty, the pain, the destruction of hate.
(April 13/2007)
On all the deer
All the tigers
In the jungle in Myanmar
Have attacked together.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza │13 January,2018
The meanest of murder, axe nor machete,
Overwhelming greed the sole bleeding knife;
Cohorts of crime, manic men of market,
The fair lady herself— much freedom rife!
To save her skin she this defence did fake:
Infidels oft breed their own tragic ends—
Making out markets seem a sad mistake,
Not knife, she used her own barest of stands.
No, not in fear darling, ye died of hate,
In greed of growth I guess, guilt-edged progress,
And yet, ere ye fall to thine destined fate,
I blame less Lady Greed, more her excess.
If bleed ye must ye shall bleed not in vain,
If too much greed be reined in tight restrain!
_____________________________________________ _________
This sonnet is in the form of allegorical satire on the goings on at global market meltdown. The sonnet takes its inspiration from Sir Walter Raleigh's ‘A secret murder hath been done of late'.
_______________________________________ __________
Sonnets | 04.11.08 |
Step on it good and hard,
make sure it is dead.
Hope under heel,
grinding into powder.
Slide that knife across skin,
hard and deep to be sure.
In a ditch like a missing person,
Hope lies bleeding.
Salt that wound and burn it,
coagulating under your heat.
Blood and dirt combine,
this sickeningly sweet murder excites you.
Toss the weapons aside,
no caring if they're found.
Your murder was metaphorical,
no reprisals are forthcoming.
Once there lived two friends,
human and humanity.
human was loving and caring,
while humanity spread peace and brotherhood.
under their friendship tree,
everyone was happy and merry.
in the same world lived Hate and Greed, full of sinister.
very different from all the other.
who were always jealous of human and humanity,
and they tried hard to part the friends
and throw them away in different ends.
the did succeed,
in the heart of human they planted hate-seed.
soon the seed started to rear,
and human was left with no love and care.
it turned furious towards humanity.
all their friendship woes turned into enmity.
hate and greed infected human one after the other.
and made human to commit the murder.
end of peace was marked with the murder of humanity,
in some  lost corner is the grave of humanity,
now the world knows only hate, greed and enmity.
It is true, that even in the best-run state
Such things will happen; it is true,
What’s done is done. The law, whereby we hate
Our hatred, sees no fire in the flue
But by the smoke, and not for thought alone
It punishes, but for the thing that’s done.
And yet there is the horror of the fact,
Though we knew not the man. To die in jail,
To be beaten to death, to know the act
Of personal fury before the eyes can fail
And the man die against the cold last wall
Of the lonely world—and neither is that all:
There is the terror too of each man’s thought,
That knows not, but must quietly suspect
His neighbor, friend, or self of being taught
To take an attitude merely correct;
Being frightened of his own cold image in
The glass of government, and his own sin,
Frightened lest senate house and prison wall
Be quarried of one stone, lest righteous and high
Look faintly smiling down and seem to call
A crime the welcome chance of liberty,
And any man an outlaw who aggrieves
The patriotism of a pair of thieves.
The Perfect Murder…..,
On The Perfect Day……,
No one would find out……,
No possible way……,
She waited in the shadows….,
For him to pass by……,
When he did…..,
The knife did fly…..,
Stabbed him dead…..,
The low-life cheat…..,
Then killed herself….,
To make it all complete….,
The Perfect Murder….,
On the Perfect Day…..,
Happy Valentine’s Day…..! ! !
on top of
a hill is
a house lighted
by a lamp
since the window
is open
and the night
is dark
something looks
like a firefly
in the sky
along the
footpath a naked
woman
is lying unconscious
inside the house
the man is
washing his hands
he closed the window
puts off the light
and in the darkness
begins his
journey to the world
of the wolves.
Some reporters are being murdered
In Bangladesh recently
And most of the times
Justice is denied or delayed
For lame excuses
Killing a reporter
Is like strangling a brave truthful person
Who is rare and much needed
In any society
Reporters are like mirrors of the world
Murdering them is like
Breaking the mirrors into pieces
That can hurt others
Be careful
O Bangladesh
Because I have been robbed
And savagely beaten
Abandoned left to die
Have I right to murder?
Because I have been raped
And physically scarred
Emotionally devoid
Have I right to murder?
Because I have been stripped
Of my virginity
Cheated of childhood
Have I right to murder?
One God has given Life
Our most precious gift
To always be cherished
And never be stolen
You're making a witless lout of yourself
Can't you see, in your mirror of vanity
She said this, an' that, and finally she
Was as quiet and still as a cold body be
He wrapped her on up in a cranberry sheet
An erudite choice of colour I'd say
Carried her down by the fire escape
Sang a song by Joplin while spinning duct tape
Dropped her into a heap of damp leaves
Imagine the look on the public works man
Scooping her up on his fork lift hooks
I'd bet the ranch his hands and legs shook
It was almost two weeks before local police
Arrested this man on some uncanny leads
It seems that a man who lived one flight up
Loathed Joplin 'n came to his window in huff
And, sure enough he could see the large bag
Over the shoulders of the struggling man
Suffice to say there is no shred of doubt
The woman was right, he was a witless lout
© 2015-All rights reserved
Frank James Ryan Jr. / FjR
There was a wine
on the table,
There were people
on the bench.
There was a smile
on their faces,
There was a love
in the air.
There was a past
in her heart,
There was a future,
in his mind.
There were buses
in the streets,
There was her
with him again.
There was a bed,
in old attic.
There were them,
in the sheets.
There was a morning,
on the window.
There was a blood,
on his hands.
Imprisoned me to death
or a double-life unbailable sentence
I am pleading guilty
I have murdered the precious times
eversince
I am a needless slumberer
an hour waster
a clock watcher
a frivolous talker
employed in irrelevant employments
a day squanderer
a false-hope wisher
a luck seeker for  a job abroad
a jack in few trade collector
I have acquired trial and error skills
a hit and miss casual careers
I am loitering as self-acclaimed explorer
and keep writing impossible to publish anthology
I am shifting various courses
moving one place to place
I am spilling out all crystal fountain of my youth
I am spoiling much of them
Still at this very moment
I am regretting
I  keep on wishing
how could I live
them once again
without time-wasting?
Those precious moments
that meant to be spent
wisely but once -
I am now voicing out my
guilty feelings within
under oath!
Some Governments order the execution of drug runners after they have spent many years in jail
This is their idea of morality through justice but by their actions their ideas they do fail
Drug runners may not be good people but the death penalty for them or anyone unjustified
To have the death penalty in place in their constitution to any government should not be a sense of pride
If the wilful taking of human life is murder then the death penalty is murder too
For one to order the execution of another human being does seem such a callous thing to do
This person too does have a family and is grieved by a mum and a dad
You do not make yourself a good person by ordering the execution of one who is bad
To me the death penalty is murder i can see it in no other way
On this i only express my opinion though many may disagree with what i do say
Government leaders order the execution of murderers and drug traffickers if one of their own children were guilty of such a crime
They would not want them to be executed after serving years of prison time
To me the death penalty is murder leave the guilty to grow old in jail
Government leaders who order executions may see this as morality through justice but by their actions their ideas they do fail.
I believe in peace and have been persecuted
for a love of peace belief for enlightened years
by people brain washed into thinking war is
right war is good, wrong war is murder legalized
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
DON'T MURDER ME...................................
Words paint a fragile picture of the dusk.
I think them to a poet far away.
The light shines dim upon my windowpane.
A few tears fall like blue rain in the mind.
Our time has been short listed by sunset,
No matter that the weather has its way,
The stresses live within their measurement,
And distance is a gift we give ourselves.
This moment is designed to be as spare
And elegant as winter's old, gnarled trees.
I trust you to translate my whispers, Friend
And send them back before the music ends.
You sing
I will be the mountain and hold your voice deep inside
You feel
I will be the earth and keep your vibrations in my core
You cry
I will be the ocean keeping your sacred drops alive
You chant
I will be the holy hymn, we shall soar
You fly
I will be the sky, always holding you high
You dance
I will be the music that you wore
'Twas at the royal feast for Persia won
By Philip's warlike son—
Aloft in awful state
The godlike hero sate
On his imperial throne;
His valiant peers were placed around,
Their brows with roses and with myrtles bound
(So should desert in arms be crowned);
The lovely Thais by his side
Sate like a blooming eastern bride
In flower of youth and beauty's pride:—
Happy, happy, happy pair!
None but the brave
None but the brave
None but the brave deserves the fair!
Timotheus placed on high
Amid the tuneful quire
With flying fingers touched the lyre;
The trembling notes ascend the sky
And heavenly joys inspire.
The song began from Jove
Who left his blissful seats above—
Such is the power of mighty love!
A dragon's fiery form belied the god
Sublime on radiant spires he rode
When he to fair Olympia prest,
And while he sought her snowy breast,
Then round her slender waist he curled,
And stamped an image of himself, a sovereign of the world.
- The listening crowd admire the lofty sound!
A present deity! they shout around:
A present deity! the vaulted roofs rebound!
With ravished ears
The monarch hears,
Assumes the god,
Affects to nod,
And seems to shake the spheres.
The praise of Bacchus then the sweet musician sung,
Of Bacchus ever fair and ever young:
The jolly god in triumph comes!
Sound the trumpets, beat the drums!
Flushed with a purple grace
He shows his honest face:
Now give the hautboys breath; he comes, he comes!
Bacchus, ever fair and young,
Drinking joys did first ordain;
Bacchus' blessings are a treasure,
Drinking is the soldier's pleasure:
Rich the treasure,
Sweet the pleasure,
Sweet is pleasure after pain.
Soothed with the sound, the king grew vain;
Fought all his battles o'er again,
And thrice he routed all his foes, and thrice he slew the slain.
The master saw the madness rise,
His glowing cheeks, his ardent eyes;
And while he Heaven and Earth defied
Changed his hand and checked his pride.
He chose a mournful Muse
Soft pity to infuse:
He sung Darius great and good,
By too severe a fate
Fallen, fallen, fallen, fallen,
Fallen from his high estate,
And weltering in his blood;
Deserted, at his utmost need,
By those his former bounty fed;
On the bare earth exposed he lies
With not a friend to close his eyes.
- With downcast looks the joyless victor sate,
Revolving in his altered soul
The various turns of Chance below;
And now and then a sigh he stole,
And tears began to flow.
The mighty master smiled to see
That love was in the next degree;
'Twas but a kindred-sound to move,
For pity melts the mind to love.
Softly sweet, in Lydian measures
Soon he soothed his soul to pleasures.
War, he sung, is toil and trouble,
Honour but an empty bubble;
Never ending, still beginning,
Fighting still, and still destroying;
If the world be worth thy winning,
Think, O think, it worth enjoying:
Lovely Thais sits beside thee,
Take the good the gods provide thee!
- The many rend the skies with loud applause;
So Love was crowned, but Music won the cause.
The prince, unable to conceal his pain,
Gazed on the fair
Who caused his care,
And sighed and looked, sighed and looked,
Sighed and looked, and sighed again:
At length with love and wine at once opprest
The vanquished victor sunk upon her breast.
Now strike the golden lyre again:
A louder yet, and yet a louder strain!
Break his bands of sleep asunder
And rouse him like a rattling peal of thunder.
Hark, hark! the horrid sound
Has raised up his head:
As awaked from the dead
And amazed he stares around.
Revenge, revenge, Timotheus cries,
See the Furies arisel
See the snakes that they rear
How they hiss in their hair,
And the sparkles that flash from their eyes!
Behold a ghastly band,
Each a torch in his hand!
Those are Grecian ghosts, that in battle were slain
And unburied remain
Inglorious on the plain:
Give the vengeance due
To the valiant crew!
Behold how they toss their torches on high,
How they point to the Persian abodes
And glittering temples of their hostile gods.
- The princes applaud with a furious joy:
And the King seized a flambeau with zeal to destroy;
Thais led the way
To light him to his prey,
And like another Helen, fired another Troy!
- Thus, long ago,
Ere heaving bellows learned to blow,
While organs yet were mute,
Timotheus, to his breathing flute
And sounding lyre,
Could swell the soul to rage, or kindle soft desire.
At last divine Cecilia came,
Inventress of the vocal frame;
The sweet enthusiast from her sacred store
Enlarged the former narrow bounds,
And added length to solemn sounds,
With Nature's mother-wit, and arts unknown before.
- Let old Timotheus yield the prize
Or both divide the crown;
He raised a mortal to the skies;
She drew an angel down!
Winter is icummen in,
Lhude sing Goddamm.
Raineth drop and staineth slop,
And how the wind doth ramm!
Sing: Goddamm.
Skiddeth bus and sloppeth us,
An ague hath my ham.
Freezeth river, turneth liver,
Damn you, sing: Goddamm.
Goddamm, Goddamm, 'tis why I am, Goddamm,
So 'gainst the winter's balm.
Sing goddamm, damm, sing Goddamm.
Sing goddamm, sing goddamm, DAMM.
I'd like to spend
April, sitting on a hill,
With a mushroom for
a parasol and violets
for a frill. And the
wind for a violin, To
play spring tunes,
And the blossoms in
the treetops, For gay
balloons. I'd like to spend
April sitting on a
mound, Watching for
the flowers to pop out
of the ground. With
their green silk stockings,
And new spring clothes,
Trying to look taller
by dancing on their toes!
1993
As the music plays
my heart aches
it aches with pain
pain of the past
and pain of the present
As the music plays
my heart aches
it aches with hurt
hurt that I have caused
and hurt that has been caused
As the music plays
my heart aches
it aches with passion
passion that yearns
and passion that wants
As the music plays
my heart aches
it aches with love
love that will never be shared
and love that will never be known
As the music stops
my heart no longer aches
it doesn't feel anything
the music has stopped
and so has everything else.
Blest pair of Sirens, pledges of Heav'n's joy,
Sphere-born harmonious Sisters, Voice and Verse,
Wed your divine sounds, and mixt power employ
Dead things with inbreath'd sense able to pierce,
And to our high-rais'd fantasy present
That undisturbed Song of pure concent,
Ay sung before that saphire-colour'd throne
To Him that sits thereon
With Saintly shout and solemn Jubilee,
Where the bright Seraphim in burning row
Their loud up-lifted Angel trumpets blow,
And the Cherubic host in thousand choirs
Touch their immortal Harps of golden wires,
With those just Spirits that wear victorious Palms,
Hymns devout and holy Psalms
Singing everlastingly;
That we on Earth with undiscording voice
May rightly answer that melodious noise;
As once we did, till disproportion'd sin
Jarr'd against Nature's chime, and with harsh din
Broke the fair music that all creatures made
To their great Lord, whose love their motion sway'd
In first obedience, and their state of good.
And keep in tune with Heav'n, till God ere long
To His celestial consort us unite,
To live with Him, and sing in endless morn of light.
AWAY with funeral music - set
The pipe to powerful lips -
The cup of life's for him that drinks
And not for him that sips.
It's no go the merrygoround, it's no go the rickshaw,
All we want is a limousine and a ticket for the peepshow.
Their knickers are made of crepe-de-chine, their shoes are made of python,
Their halls are lined with tiger rugs and their walls with head of bison.
John MacDonald found a corpse, put it under the sofa,
Waited till it came to life and hit it with a poker,
Sold its eyes for souvenirs, sold its blood for whiskey,
Kept its bones for dumbbells to use when he was fifty.
It's no go the Yogi-man, it's no go Blavatsky,
All we want is a bank balance and a bit of skirt in a taxi.
Annie MacDougall went to milk, caught her foot in the heather,
Woke to hear a dance record playing of Old Vienna.
It's no go your maidenheads, it's no go your culture,
All we want is a Dunlop tire and the devil mend the puncture.
The Laird o' Phelps spent Hogmanay declaring he was sober,
Counted his feet to prove the fact and found he had one foot over.
Mrs. Carmichael had her fifth, looked at the job with repulsion,
Said to the midwife "Take it away; I'm through with overproduction."
It's no go the gossip column, it's no go the Ceilidh,
All we want is a mother's help and a sugar-stick for the baby.
Willie Murray cut his thumb, couldn't count the damage,
Took the hide of an Ayrshire cow and used it for a bandage.
His brother caught three hundred cran when the seas were lavish,
Threw the bleeders back in the sea and went upon the parish.
It's no go the Herring Board, it's no go the Bible,
All we want is a packet of fags when our hands are idle.
It's no go the picture palace, it's no go the stadium,
It's no go the country cot with a pot of pink geraniums,
It's no go the Government grants, it's no go the elections,
Sit on your arse for fifty years and hang your hat on a pension.
It's no go my honey love, it's no go my poppet;
Work your hands from day to day, the winds will blow the profit.
The glass is falling hour by hour, the glass will fall forever,
But if you break the bloody glass you won't hold up the weather.
When there is a song about love
then the music does become a soul of my heart
When I hug the melody of music
then I feel the spirit of words, traveling with me
When the voice of music passes in the air
then my ears are listening to its harmony
When I close my eyes and feel the rhythm of its music
then I dream an angel of its music goes around me
Melody is my love and the eternal music is my life
The music has its own story that plays with amazing emotions
and I can hear its beautiful song with touching rhythms
Let it be symphony, classic, jazz or hard rock
but everyone loves music which has only one language
in this universe that has known as Sound of Music.
Anyone who has no interest themselves in music
is nothing but dead bodies on the ground.
Because music is my eternal life.
503
Better—than Music! For I—who heard it—
I was used—to the Birds—before—
This—was different—'Twas Translation—
Of all tunes I knew—and more—
'Twasn't contained—like other stanza—
No one could play it—the second time—
But the Composer—perfect Mozart—
Perish with him—that Keyless Rhyme!
So—Children—told how Brooks in Eden—
Bubbled a better—Melody—
Quaintly infer—Eve's great surrender—
Urging the feet—that would—not—fly—
Children—matured—are wiser—mostly—
Eden—a legend—dimly told—
Eve—and the Anguish—Grandame's story—
But—I was telling a tune—I heard—
Not such a strain—the Church—baptizes—
When the last Saint—goes up the Aisles—
Not such a stanza splits the silence—
When the Redemption strikes her Bells—
Let me not spill—its smallest cadence—
Humming—for promise—when alone—
Humming—until my faint Rehearsal—
Drop into tune—around the Throne—
The mother will not turn, who thinks she hears
Her nursling's speech first grow articulate;
But breathless with averted eyes elate
She sits, with open lips and open ears,
That it may call her twice. 'Mid doubts and fears
Thus oft my soul has hearkened; till the song,
A central moan for days, at length found tongue,
And the sweet music welled and the sweet tears.
But now, whatever while the soul is fain
To list that wonted murmur, as it were
The speech-bound sea-shell's low importunate strain, -
No breath of song, thy voice alone is there,
O bitterly beloved! and all her gain
Is but the pang of unpermitted prayer.
Some days I catch a rhythm, almost a song
in my own breath. I'm alone here
in Brooklyn Heights, late morning, the sky
above the St. George Hotel clear, clear
for New York, that is. The radio playing
"Bird Flight," Parker in his California
tragic voice fifty years ago, his faltering
"Lover Man" just before he crashed into chaos.
I would guess that outside the recording studio
in Burbank the sun was high above the jacarandas,
it was late March, the worst of yesterday's rain
had come and gone, the sky washed blue. Bird
could have seen for miles if he'd looked, but what
he saw was so foreign he clenched his eyes,
shook his head, and barked like a dog--just once--
and then Howard McGhee took his arm and assured him
he'd be OK. I know this because Howard told me
years later that he thought Bird could
lie down in the hotel room they shared, sleep
for an hour or more, and waken as himself.
The perfect sunlight angles into my little room
above Willow Street. I listen to my breath
come and go and try to catch its curious taste,
part milk, part iron, part blood, as it passes
from me into the world. This is not me,
this is automatic, this entering and exiting,
my body's essential occupation without which
I am a thing. The whole process has a name,
a word I don't know, an elegant word not
in English or Yiddish or Spanish, a word
that means nothing to me. Howard truly believed
what he said that day when he steered
Parker into a cab and drove the silent miles
beside him while the bright world
unfurled around them: filling stations, stands
of fruits and vegetables, a kiosk selling trinkets
from Mexico and the Philippines. It was all
so actual and Western, it was a new creation
coming into being, like the music of Charlie Parker
someone later called "glad," though that day
I would have said silent, "the silent music
of Charlie Parker." Howard said nothing.
He paid the driver and helped Bird up two flights
to their room, got his boots off, and went out
to let him sleep as the afternoon entered
the history of darkness. I'm not judging
Howard, he did better than I could have
now or then. Then I was 19, working
on the loading docks at Railway Express
coming day by day into the damaged body
of a man while I sang into the filthy air
the Yiddish drinking songs my Zadie taught me
before his breath failed. Now Howard is gone,
eleven long years gone, the sweet voice silenced.
"The subtle bridge between Eldridge and Navarro,"
they later wrote, all that rising passion
a footnote to others. I remember in '85
walking the halls of Cass Tech, the high school
where he taught after his performing days,
when suddenly he took my left hand in his
two hands to tell me it all worked out
for the best. Maybe he'd gotten religion,
maybe he knew how little time was left,
maybe that day he was just worn down
by my questions about Parker. To him Bird
was truly Charlie Parker, a man, a silent note
going out forever on the breath of genius
which now I hear soaring above my own breath
as this bright morning fades into afternoon.
Music, I'll call it music. It's what we need
as the sun staggers behind the low gray clouds
blowing relentlessly in from that nameless ocean,
the calm and endless one I've still to cross.
I have a friend who still believes in heaven.
Not a stupid person, yet with all she knows, she literally talks to God.
She thinks someone listens in heaven.
On earth she's unusually competent.
Brave too, able to face unpleasantness.
We found a caterpillar dying in the dirt, greedy ants crawling over it.
I'm always moved by disaster, always eager to oppose vitality
But timid also, quick to shut my eyes.
Whereas my friend was able to watch, to let events play out
According to nature.  For my sake she intervened
Brushing a few ants off the torn thing, and set it down
Across the road.
My friend says I shut my eyes to God, that nothing else explains
My aversion to reality.  She says I'm like the child who
Buries her head in the pillow
So as not to see, the child who tells herself
That light causes sadness-
My friend is like the mother. Patient, urging me
To wake up an adult like herself, a courageous person-
In my dreams, my friend reproaches me.  We're walking
On the same road, except it's winter now;
She's telling me that when you love the world you hear celestial music:
Look up, she says. When I look up, nothing.
Only clouds, snow, a white business in the trees
Like brides leaping to a great height-
Then I'm afraid for her; I see her
Caught in a net deliberately cast over the earth-
In reality, we sit by the side of the road, watching the sun set;
From time to time, the silence pierced by a birdcall.
It's this moment we're trying to explain, the fact
That we're at ease with death, with solitude.
My friend draws a circle in the dirt; inside, the caterpillar doesn't move.
She's always trying to make something whole, something beautiful, an image
Capable of life apart from her.
We're very quiet. It's peaceful sitting here, not speaking, The composition
Fixed, the road turning suddenly dark, the air
Going cool, here and there the rocks shining and glittering-
It's this stillness we both love.
The love of form is a love of endings.
Sweetest of sweets, I thank you: when displeasure
Did through my body wound my mind,
You took me thence, and in your house of pleasure
A dainty lodging me assigned.
Now I in you without a body move,
Rising and falling with your wings:
We both together sweetly live and love,
Yet say sometimes, "God help poor Kings".
Comfort, I'll die; for if you post from me
Sure I shall do so, and much more:
But if I travel in your company,
You know the way to heaven's door.
I hear the music of the heavenly angels
Coming softly through the blue sky from above
Blending with the music from on the mountain tops
Bringing to all earth's people messages of love.
The song birds are singing to the angels' music
Telling us to hear the words of truth very clear,
"All of earth's people are more alike than different
And to help each other will leave no room for fear".
Come listen to the music of quiet gentle breezes
And music from wild flowers growing on the hill
Whispering softly to awaken our spirits
Saying, "Only listen and let your hearts be still,
So to hear the music from the living waters
That can bring abundance wherever there is need,
Can heal all broken hearts burdened with sorrow,
And can free the people caught by their fears and greed".
Listen to music from the world's throbbing heartbeat
Commanding its people to live in true harmony
By hearing the voices of heavenly angels
Singing love, joy, and peace can be our destiny.
Listen to the music in kind smiling faces
And the music of a child laughing gleefully
Both creating music with notes of "Just Caring".
Won't you please come listen to this music with me?
I am not resigned to the shutting away of loving hearts in the hard ground.
So it is, and so it will be, for so it has been, time out of mind:
Into the darkness they go, the wise and the lovely. Crowned
With lilies and with laurel they go; but I am not resigned.
Lovers and thinkers, into the earth with you.
Be one with the dull, the indiscriminate dust.
A fragment of what you felt, of what you knew,
A formula, a phrase remains,—but the best is lost.
The answers quick and keen, the honest look, the laughter, the
love,—
They are gone. They are gone to feed the roses. Elegant and curled
Is the blossom. Fragrant is the blossom. I know. But I do not
approve.
More precious was the light in your eyes than all the roses in the
world.
Down, down, down into the darkness of the grave
Gently they go, the beautiful, the tender, the kind;
Quietly they go, the intelligent, the witty, the brave.
I know. But I do not approve. And I am not resigned.
I. Insomnia
The bulb at the front door burns and burns.
If it were a white rose it would tire of blooming
through another endless night.
The moon knows the routine;
it beats the bushes from east to west
and sets empty-handed. Again the one
she is waiting for has outrun the moon.
II. Old Money
The spotted hands shake as they polish the coins.
The shiny penny goes under the tongue,
the two silver pieces
weighted by pyramids
will shut down the eyes.
All the rest is paper,
useless in any world but this.
III. Home Movie
She knows that walk, that whistle, that knock.
It's the black wolf who sticks
his floured paw underneath the door.
She tries not to open. One look at his face
and she'll drop the gun. He will pick it up
and turn it on her where she waits,
her eyes shining, her hands over her head.
IV. Golden Boy
Whitewashed, the eyes refuse you.
And so the mouth must be serene,
the muscles play, the body
take an easy stance
to divert you from the two
boarded-up chambers
where someone has died.
V. Washing Day
Each year her laundry line gets lighter.
One by one they disappear,
ten little Indians. They take their socks,
their jeans, their stiff plaid shirts.
Above the Ford on its concrete blocks,
striped and zippered,
her cotton dress flutters on and on.
In the glad springtime when leaves were green,
O merrily the throstle sings!
I sought, amid the tangled sheen,
Love whom mine eyes had never seen,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
Between the blossoms red and white,
O merrily the throstle sings!
My love first came into my sight,
O perfect vision of delight,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
The yellow apples glowed like fire,
O merrily the throstle sings!
O Love too great for lip or lyre,
Blown rose of love and of desire,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
But now with snow the tree is grey,
Ah, sadly now the throstle sings!
My love is dead: ah! well-a-day,
See at her silent feet I lay
A dove with broken wings!
Ah, Love! ah, Love! that thou wert slain -
Fond Dove, fond Dove return again!
Has music gone from poetry?
Words and music, still agree?
Dance and rhythm, song and laughter,
Do they echo, now, hereafter..?
Has singing gone from poetry?
Words that sing a listened tune?
Lullaby and melody,
Old rhymes that sleepy mothers croon?
Has rhythm gone from poetry?
Quick as a dance-step, slow as a glide?
Laughing now; now weeping; now shouting with glee –
Dancing round you, singing, can’t catch me…
Has magic gone from poetry?
Spells that summon fairy Fates?
Incantations solemn spoken,
Heroes, giants, to danger woken?
Have light hearts gone from poetry?
Hearts that know the tears of life,
hearts that know the grief of strife,
yet sing and dance and laugh with glee?
Who loves, who loves not poetry?
I am in need of music that would flow
Over my fretful, feeling fingertips,
Over my bitter-tainted, trembling lips,
With melody, deep, clear, and liquid-slow.
Oh, for the healing swaying, old and low,
Of some song sung to rest the tired dead,
A song to fall like water on my head,
And over quivering limbs, dream flushed to glow!
There is a magic made by melody:
A spell of rest, and quiet breath, and cool
Heart, that sinks through fading colors deep
To the subaqueous stillness of the sea,
And floats forever in a moon-green pool,
Held in the arms of rhythm and of sleep.
All sounds have been as music to my listening:
Pacific lamentations of slow bells,
The crunch of boots on blue snow rosy-glistening,
Shuffle of autumn leaves; and all farewells:
Bugles that sadden all the evening air,
And country bells clamouring their last appeals
Before [the] music of the evening prayer;
Bridges, sonorous under carriage wheels.
Gurgle of sluicing surge through hollow rocks,
The gluttonous lapping of the waves on weeds,
Whisper of grass; the myriad-tinkling flocks,
The warbling drawl of flutes and shepherds' reeds.
The orchestral noises of October nights
Blowing ( ) symphonetic storms
Of startled clarions ( )
Drums, rumbling and rolling thunderous and ( ).
Thrilling of throstles in the keen blue dawn,
Bees fumbling and fuming over sainfoin-fields.
To know the impossible to be impossible
and yet to love the attempt;
to demonstrate that beauty is eternal, yet
seen only in that moment now,
never to be captured, ever changing -
'evanescent' holds a little of the sound of it -
this, the heroic failure that betokens love.
Monet was that hero. For perhaps you may
catch beauty's shadow in a photograph;
even glimpse its joy, there, in the sound of song;
but try to catch it - dab by dab of brush -
when in the time  it takes to do this, yet another leaf
- there, watch it as it drops -
has fallen from that distant orange-yellow-brown
blur of an autumn wood - knowing as you render nature's generality
or catch a church, a haystack, in a sundown glow,
that all things pass -
that love's heroic:  and when, in irony that surely
needs no underlining, blindness comes upon you, yet
you go on painting, as the water-lilies blur
into the water-weed, into the bridge,
into the time that runs down to the river, to the sea...
and in turn, Renoir, in his 'Moulin a la Galette' dance-cafe,
catching the human reflection of this flow, our yearning
for the perfect moment to remain, frozen, set, fresh-baked,
forever caught - this is what my life has led to,
this is what, surely, I deserve - under the lanterns in the trees
the young girls with their cheeks of peaches, apricots,
and lips like fruit that's waiting to be pressed,
dream of forever to be loved; while their tonight's men
smoke, and drink, and dream of where a young man's lust
might just be step into another world -
while in that room up there that looks down on this scene,
Proust, seeing the cafe's dance of fleeting beauty, writes to catch
those moments lived and lost and yet remembered;
and Debussy, his tentative composer's piano notes
heard just above the cafe's resident accordionist
whose sentimental music you too will remember
to your dying day, and smile a gentle tear - and when
past midnight, as the silence falls upon the thinning dance, and
couples, singing, arm-in-arm it home, and
Monsieur le patron extinguishes the lanterns in the trees,
and the humble workers' square is suddenly a nowhere place,
Debussy will hear the moonlight sliding through the window
onto the piano's keys...
of beauty, we can say not much
of all that may be said.
(To Michael Gessner, who reminded me about poetry.)
In a smart burnoose, Khadour looked on, amused;
it suited him, to pick the choicest fruit
from market stalls, comparing each with all
and, smiling, then point out the Eastern style
allowing customers to choose what must
be brought to table straightway, and what ought
to be allowed to ripen a degree;
and so, politely indicate the sin
of thinking that the West were always best…
[An experiment in five-stress lines
internally rhyming the first, second or third foot
with the last (fifth)   foot;
as an alternative to end-rhymes..
The first line is from Elizabeth Bishop,
which promoted the experiment..;
comments on the effect?
or better, try it yourself? ]
THROUGH the soft evening air enwrinding all,
Rocks, woods, fort, cannon, pacing sentries, endless wilds,
In dulcet streams, in flutes' and cornets' notes,
Electric, pensive, turbulent artificial,
(Yet strangely fitting even here, meanings unknown before,
Subtler than ever, more harmony, as if born here, related here,
Not to the city's fresco'd rooms, not to the audience of the opera
house,
Sounds, echoes, wandering strains, as really here at home,
Sonnambula's innocent love, trios with Norma's anguish,
And thy ecstatic chorus Poliuto;)                                  10
Ray'd in the limpid yellow slanting sundown,
Music, Italian music in Dakota.
While Nature, sovereign of this gnarl'd realm,
Lurking in hidden barbaric grim recesses,
Acknowledging rapport however far remov'd,
(As some old root or soil of earth its last-born flower or fruit,)
Listens well pleas'd.
Do you hear it
Its the pounding of your heart
The thump of your foot hitting the pavement
Its the rythym
Its the song in your head
That tune your whistling
The jingle on the TV
Its the music
Its the rap kicking with the subs
The rock that show you how to stick it to the man
The blues with that soul
Its the music
What is it
Its the music
The heartbeat of the world
The rythym that brings us together
The only universally understood language
Its the happiness
The sorrow,
The guidance,
The inspiration
Its the music
It lives in us all
Its the music
The power
The life
Play life's music sweetly, play life's music low
As demons once awaken come, in fast and low
Play life's music gently, let sleeping dragons lie
Play life's music slowly, be gentle on yourself
Life's music can be restful, life's music can be nice
Listen with an open heart and let sleeping monsters lie
Oh you were so
quiet
I hardly heard you
tiptoe silently in
settle yourself
amongst the strings
talking to me
now in cello
now in violin
the heartbeat of a drum
the exchange of laughter
between  glockenspiel & xylophone
making a point
with either
the tiny tinkle
of a triangle
or the crash of a symbol.
I listen to you talk
to me in music
the candlelight
grows dim & then
as softly as you came
you leave
leaves
(fluttering against
the windowpane) .
I feel you leave
leave before the movement ends
footsteps
in the silence of my memory
me nearly
forgetting
that you've died
listening on
until the end
as the music
cries.
Glory of architect, glory of painter, and sculptor, and bard,
Living forever in temple and picture and statue and song, --
Look how the world with the lights that they lit is illumined and starred,
Brief was the flame of their life, but the lamps of their art burn long!
Where is the Master of Music, and how has he vanished away?
Where is the work that he wrought with his wonderful art in the air?
Gone, -- it is gone like the glow on the cloud at the close of the day!
The Master has finished his work, and the glory of music is -- where?
Once, at the wave of his wand, all the billows of musical sound
Followed his will, as the sea was ruled by the prophet of old:
Now that his hand is relaxed, and his rod has dropped to the ground,
Silent and dark are the shores where the marvellous harmonies rolled!
Nay, but not silent the hearts that were filled by that life-giving sea;
Deeper and purer forever the tides of their being will roll,
Grateful and joyful, O Master, because they have listened to thee, --
The glory of music endures in the depths of the human soul.
Music is sweet, endearing symphony,
Melodious rendering of subtle notes of harmony,
Melody that captures the eager, expressive, exploring mind,
Mellifluous tunes of ethereal splendour,
Magnificent aesthetic display of wonder.
Have you heard of Music
That casts a spell,
Enveloping you in its melodious folds?
A rare name, indeed! - Sopänam!
Known only to a few
But unheard and unknown to many
Yet, it exists,
Along the sandy beaches that stretches along
The deep Arabian sea
Amidst the swaying palms
In the wooden carved temples of Kerala,
Sopänam-the soulful music!
The divine melody of Sopanam
Is the song of the steps -
Steps that carry you along the ascending sweet notes,
Steps that cascade down with descending melodies,
Steps that hold you in rapt attention,
Steps that lift your spirit,
Take you on a joyful ride
Into the inner recesses of the mind,
To reflect and meditate
On the ever compassionate Almighty;
A journey most illuminating,
A spiritual sojourn!
As you stand in the temple,
Praying with folded hands,
The ears catch
The strains of the lingering lyrics
Weaving the romantic interludes
Of Radha and Krishna
Their ardent yearning,
Secret meetings,
Sweet murmurings,
Passionate love
Crossing the hurdles of time and tide,
With eternal love!
Hark! Listen to the music
Soft tender notes of Sopanam
Sensitive like the whispering palms
Scented like the sacred basil leaves
Seductive like the white jasmine flowers!
Soothing like the gentle breeze,
Yet, powerful and intense like the Kathakali dancers
Portraying the ancient legends and stories
Of Gods and heroes,
War and peace,
Love and hate, jealousy and revenge,
Dancing through this enriching music!
A melody truly divine,
Inspiring,
Prodding,
To climb the ladder-
The steps of symphony!
The yearning soul,
Desperate to seek
The expression of love,
The aesthetic experience,
The boundless bliss -
Unity of man, music and God,
A spiritual journey truly rewarding!
Music is a
Melting emotion,
Managing my mind,
Meticulously tuned,
Melodiously restrained,
Mellifluously refrained,
Magnificently soulful;
Majestic queen of symphonies.
WAS it light that spake from the darkness,
or music that shone from the word,
When the night was enkindled with sound
of the sun or the first-born bird?
Souls enthralled and entrammelled in bondage
of seasons that fall and rise,
Bound fast round with the fetters of flesh,
and blinded with light that dies,
Lived not surely till music spake,
and the spirit of life was heard.
Music, sister of sunrise, and herald of life to be,
Smiled as dawn on the spirit of man,
and the thrall was free.
Slave of nature and serf of time,
the bondman of life and death,
Dumb with passionless patience that breathed
but forlorn and reluctant breath,
Heard, beheld, and his soul made answer,
and communed aloud with the sea.
Morning spake, and he heard:
and the passionate silent noon
Kept for him not silence:
and soft from the mounting moon
Fell the sound of her splendour,
heard as dawn's in the breathless night,
Not of men but of birds whose note
bade man's soul quicken and leap to light:
And the song of it spake, and the light and the darkness
of earth were as chords in tune.
FOR some abiding central source of power,
Strong-smitten steady chords, ye seem to flow
And, flowing, carry virtue.  Far below,
The vain tumultuous passions of the hour
Fleet fast and disappear; and as the sun
Shines on the wake of tempests, there is cast
O'er all the shattered ruins of my past
A strong contentment as of battles won.
And yet I cry in anguish, as I hear
The long drawn pageant of your passage roll
Magnificently forth into the night.
To yon fair land ye come from, to yon sphere
Of strength and love where now ye shape your flight,
O even wings of music, bear my soul!
Ye have the power, if but ye had the will,
Strong-smitten steady chords in sequence grand,
To bear me forth into that tranquil land
Where good is no more ravelled up with ill;
Where she and I, remote upon some hill
Or by some quiet river's windless strand,
May live, and love, and wander hand in hand,
And follow nature simply, and be still.
From this grim world, where, sadly, prisoned, we
Sit bound with others' heart-strings as with chains,
And, if one moves, all suffer, - to that Goal,
If such a land, if such a sphere, there be,
Thither, from life and all life's joys and pains,
O even wings of music, bear my soul!
Music I heard with you was more than music,
And bread I broke with you was more than bread;
Now that I am without you, all is desolate;
All that was once so beautiful is dead.
Your hands once touched this table and this silver,
And I have seen your fingers hold this glass.
These things do not remember you, beloved,
And yet your touch upon them will not pass.
For it was in my heart that you moved among them,
And blessed them with your hands and with your eyes;
And in my heart they will remember always,
—They knew you once, O beautiful and wise.
The house was empty and
the people of the house
gone many months
Months for the weevil
for the patient worm
timbe r-mole softly tunnelling
;for the parliament of rats
Footsteps slink past
damp walls
down
long
& nbsp;     corridors
< br>Slow feet
warily scuff
bare boards
The much-bitten
&nbs p;tapestry
;  holds
&nb sp;     many
&n bsp;    moths
In a certain curtain'd room
the halting steps evade
chai rs white shrouded
To twitch the winding-sheet
&n bsp;around a grand piano
thin phalanx of sound
sharp rat's teeth edge yellow
with decay
The much-bitten
&nbs p;tapestry
;holds
man y
moths
On rat's teeth-edge
;fingers preparate
hesitate
Then falling send
as tenantry
darnp-muffied chords
rus ting strings
a still-born song
Their fortissimo
The tattered
scarce
tapestry
stirs
holds
near
many
cobwebs
moths
When Tom and I were married, we took a little flat;
I had a taste for singing and playing and all that.
And Tom, who loved to hear me, said he hoped
I would not stop
All practice, like so many wives who let their
music drop.
So I resolved to set apart an hour or two each day
To keeping vocal chords and hands in trim to sing and play.
The second morning I had been for half and hour or more
At work on Haydn’s masses, when a tap came at my door.
A nurse, who wore a dainty cap and apron, and a smile,
Ran down to ask if I would cease my music for awhile.
The lady in the flat above was very ill, she said,
And the sound of my piano was distracting to her head.
A fortnight’s exercises lost, ere I began them, when,
The following morning at my door, there came that tap again;
A woman with an anguished face implored me to forego
My music for some days to come – a man was dead below.
I shut down my piano till the corpse had left the house,
And spoke to Tom in whispers and was quiet as a mouse.
A week of labour limbered up my stiffened hand and voice,
I stole an extra hour from sleep, to practice and rejoice;
When, ting-a-ling, the door-bell rang a discord in my trill –
The baby in the flat across was very, very ill.
For ten long days that infant’s life was hanging by a thread,
And all that time my instrument was silent as the dead.
So pain and death and sickness came in one perpetual row,
When babies were not born above, then tenants died below.
The funeral over underneath, some one fell ill on top,
And begged me, for the love of God, to let my music drop.
When trouble went not up or down, it stalked across the hall,
And so in spite of my resolve, I do not play at all.
My heart starts to beat like  drum
My mind sings music of love
And words overflows from my lips
Music flows in my viens
And It reaches every part of me
Love spreads and heart rejoices
It  heals my body and my mind
Upbeat music reaches my brain
It lift up  my mood boost my body
And nature hums along with me
It's the time to  tap my toes
Dance in  rhythm with my love.
Music isn't just music, it's a way of life.
Music is more than life.
It's a work of art.
Music is like a cumulous cloud on a stormy day. It brings joy to the people who love it.
Music is like a catelpillar hatching out of its chrysalis its spreds its wings at a slow part dramactic part then takes flight in the entergetic parts.
Music is more than life.
It's an inspiration.
Listen to the music of love,
that seeps in from everywhere.
The rhythm of two hearts,
beating as one.
The murmurs of passion,
that consumes us all,
from time to time.
Listen to the music of love,
as it fills the air everywhere.
Music I love -­ but never strain
Could kindle raptures so divine,
So grief assuage, so conquer pain,
And rouse this pensive heart of mine -­
As that we hear on Christmas morn,
Upon the wintry breezes borne.
Though Darkness still her empire keep,
And hours must pass, ere morning break;
From troubled dreams, or slumbers deep,
That music kindly bids us wake:
It calls us, with an angel's voice,
To wake, and worship, and rejoice;
To greet with joy the glorious morn,
Which angels welcomed long ago,
When our redeeming Lord was born,
To bring the light of Heaven below;
The Powers of Darkness to dispel,
And rescue Earth from Death and Hell.
While listening to that sacred strain,
My raptured spirit soars on high;
I seem to hear those songs again
Resounding through the open sky,
That kindled such divine delight,
In those who watched their flocks by night.
With them, I celebrate His birth -­
Glory to God, in highest Heaven,
Good-will to men, and peace on Earth,
To us a Saviour-king is given;
Our God is come to claim His own,
And Satan's power is overthrown!
A sinless God, for sinful men,
Descends to suffer and to bleed;
Hell must renounce its empire then;
The price is paid, the world is freed,
And Satan's self must now confess,
That Christ has earned a Right to bless:
Now holy Peace may smile from heaven,
And heavenly Truth from earth shall spring:
The captive's galling bonds are riven,
For our Redeemer is our king;
And He that gave his blood for men
Will lead us home to God again.
Acton
This shape without space,
This pattern without stuff,
This stream without dimension
Surrounds us, flows through us,
But leaves no mark.
This message without meaning,
These tears without eyes
This laughter without lips
Speaks to us but does not
Disclose its clue.
These waves without sea
Surge over us, smooth us.
These hands without fingers
Close-hold us, caress us.
These wings without birds
Strong-lift us, would carry us
If only the one thread broke.
Submitted by Stephen Fryer
Music is a door,
An escape to a different world.
A world you make and controll in your mind.
Music is a hero,
One to cheer your spirits when you are down.
Music is an enemy,
sometimes the lyrics bring you down.
Music is your personality,
expressed through song.
The music player,
Is you, the one holding it all together.
Music is an awakening to the real world.
Its lyrics are real and true.
Music is a best friend,
One to give advice when you need it.
Music is what you think of it.
Its starts off empty and colorless,
and escalates to something more,
your own world.
If I rest for a moment near The Equestrian
pausing for a liver sausage sandwich in the Mayflower Shoppe,
that angel seems to be leading the horse into Bergdorf's
and I am naked as a table cloth, my nerves humming.
Close to the fear of war and the stars which have disappeared.
I have in my hands only 35c, it's so meaningless to eat!
and gusts of water spray over the basins of leaves
like the hammers of a glass pianoforte. If I seem to you
to have lavender lips under the leaves of the world,
I must tighten my belt.
It's like a locomotive on the march, the season
of distress and clarity
and my door is open to the evenings of midwinter's
lightly falling snow over the newspapers.
Clasp me in your handkerchief like a tear, trumpet
of early afternoon! in the foggy autumn.
As they're putting up the Christmas trees on Park Avenue
I shall see my daydreams walking by with dogs in blankets,
put to some use before all those coloured lights come on!
But no more fountains and no more rain,
and the stores stay open terribly late.
I
PRELUDE
Daughter of Psyche, pledge of that last night
When, pierced with pain and bitter-sweet delight,
She knew her Love and saw her Lord depart,
Then breathed her wonder and her woe forlorn
Into a single cry, and thou wast born?
Thou flower of rapture and thou fruit of grief;
Invisible enchantress of the heart;
Mistress of charms that bring relief
To sorrow, and to joy impart
A heavenly tone that keeps it undefiled,--
Thou art the child
Of Amor, and by right divine
A throne of love is thine,
Thou flower-folded, golden-girdled, star-crowned Queen,
Whose bridal beauty mortal eyes have never seen!
II
Thou art the Angel of the pool that sleeps,
While peace and joy lie hidden in its deeps,
Waiting thy touch to make the waters roll
In healing murmurs round the weary soul.
Ah, when wilt thou draw near,
Thou messenger of mercy robed in song?
My lonely heart has listened for thee long;
And now I seem to hear
Across the crowded market-place of life,
Thy measured foot-fall, ringing light and clear
Above the unmeaning noises and the unruly strife;
In quiet cadence, sweet and slow,
Serenely pacing to and fro,
Thy far-off steps are magical and dear.
Ah, turn this way, come close and speak to me!
>From this dull bed of languor set my spirit free,
And bid me rise, and let me walk awhile with thee
III
Where wilt thou lead me first?
In what still region
Of thy domain,
Whose provinces are legion,
Wilt thou restore me to myself again,
And quench my heart's long thirst?
I pray thee lay thy golden girdle down,
And put away thy starry crown:
For one dear restful hour
Assume a state more mild.
Clad only in thy blossom-broidered gown
That breathes familiar scent of many a flower,
Take the low path that leads thro' pastures green;
And though thou art a Queen,
Be Rosamund awhile, and in thy bower,
By tranquil love and simple joy beguiled,
Sing to my soul, as mother to her child.
IV
O lead me by the hand,
And let my heart have rest,
And bring me back to childhood land,
To find again the long-lost band
Of playmates blithe and blest.
Some quaint, old-fashioned air,
That all the children knew,
Shall run before us everywhere,
Like a little maid with flying hair,
To guide the merry crew.
Along the garden ways
We chase the light-foot tune,
And in and out the flowery maze,
With eager haste and fond delays,
In pleasant paths of June.
For us the fields are new,
For us the woods are rife
With fairy secrets, deep and true,
And heaven is but a tent of blue
Above the game of life.
The world is far away:
The fever and the fret,
And all that makes the heart grow gray,
Is out of sight and far away,
Dear Music, while I hear thee play
That olden, golden roundelay,
"Remember and forget!"
V
SLEEP SONG
Forget, forget!
The tide of life is turning;
The waves of light ebb slowly down the west:
Along the edge of dark some stars are burning
To guide thy spirit safely to an isle of rest.
A little rocking on the tranquil deep
Of song, to soothe thy yearning,
A little slumber and a little sleep,
And so, forget, forget!
Forget, forget,--
The day was long in pleasure;
Its echoes die away across the hill;
Now let thy heart beat time to their slow measure
That swells, and sinks, and faints, and falls, till all is still.
Then, like a weary child that loves to keep
Locked in its arms some treasure,
Thy soul in calm content shall fall asleep,
And so forget, forget.
Forget, forget,--
And if thou hast been weeping,
Let go the thoughts that bind thee to thy grief:
Lie still, and watch the singing angels, reaping
The golden harvest of thy sorrow, sheaf by sheaf;
Or count thy joys like flocks of snow-white sheep
That one by one come creeping
Into the quiet fold, until thou sleep,
And so forget, forget!
Forget, forget,--
Thou art a child and knowest
So little of thy life! But music tells
One secret of the world thro' which thou goest
To work with morning song, to rest with evening bells:
Life is in tune with harmony so deep
That when the notes are lowest
Thou still canst lay thee down in peace and sleep,
For God will not forget.
VI
HUNTING SONG
Out of the garden of playtime, out of the bower of rest,
Fain would I follow at daytime, music that calls to a quest.
Hark, how the galloping measure
Quickens the pulses of pleasure;
Gaily saluting the morn
With the long clear note of the hunting-horn
Echoing up from the valley,
Over the mountain side,--
Rally, you hunters, rally,
Rally, and ride!
Drink of the magical potion music has mixed with her wine,
Full of the madness of motion, joyful, exultant, divine!
Leave all your troubles behind you,
Ride where they never can find you,
Into the gladness of morn,
With the long, clear note of the hunting-horn,
Swiftly o'er hillock and hollow,
Sweeping along with the wind,--
Follow, you hunters, follow,
Follow and find!
What will you reach with your riding? What is the charm of the chase?
Just the delight and the striding swing of the jubilant pace.
Danger is sweet when you front her,--
In at the death, every hunter!
Now on the breeze the mort is borne
In the long, clear note of the hunting-horn,
Winding merrily, over and over,--
Come, come, come!
Home again, Ranger! home again, Rover!
Turn again, home!
VII
DANCE-MUSIC
Now let the sleep-tune blend with the play-tune,
Weaving the mystical spell of the dance;
Lighten the deep tune, soften the gay tune,
Mingle a tempo that turns in a trance.
Half of it sighing, half of it smiling,
Smoothly it swings, with a triplicate beat;
Calling, replying, yearning, beguiling,
Wooing the heart and bewitching the feet.
Every drop of blood
Rises with the flood,
Rocking on the waves of the strain;
Youth and beauty glide
Turning with the tide--
Music making one out of twain,
Bearing them away, and away, and away,
Like a tone and its terce--
Till the chord dissolves, and the dancers stay,
And reverse.
Violins leading, take up the measure,
Turn with the tune again,--clarinets clear
Answer their pleading,--harps full of pleasure
Sprinkle their silver like light on the mere.
Semiquaver notes,
Merry little motes,
Tangled in the haze
Of the lamp's golden rays,
Quiver everywhere
In the air,
Like a spray,--
Till the fuller stream of the might of the tune,
Gliding like a dream in the light of the moon,
Bears them all away, and away, and away,
Floating in the trance of the dance.
Then begins a measure stately,
Languid, slow, serene;
All the dancers move sedately,
Stepping leisurely and straitly,
With a courtly mien;
Crossing hands and changing places,
Bowing low between,
While the minuet inlaces
Waving arms and woven paces,--
Glittering damaskeen.
Where is she whose form is folden
In its royal sheen?
>From our longing eyes withholden
By her mystic girdle golden,
Beauty sought but never seen,
Music walks the maze, a queen.
VIII
THE SYMPHONY
Music, they do thee wrong who say thine art
Is only to enchant the sense.
For every timid motion of the heart,
And every passion too intense
To bear the chain of the imperfect word,
And every tremulous longing, stirred
By spirit winds that come we know not whence
And go we know not where,
And every inarticulate prayer
Beating about the depths of pain or bliss,
Like some bewildered bird
That seeks its nest but knows not where it is,
And every dream that haunts, with dim delight,
The drowsy hour between the day and night,
The wakeful hour between the night and day,--
Imprisoned, waits for thee,
Impatient, yearns for thee,
The queen who comes to set the captive free
Thou lendest wings to grief to fly away,
And wings to joy to reach a heavenly height;
And every dumb desire that Storms within the breast
Thou leadest forth to sob or sing itself to rest.
All these are thine, and therefore love is thine.
For love is joy and grief,
And trembling doubt, and certain-sure belief,
And fear, and hope, and longing unexpressed,
In pain most human, and in rapture brief
Almost divine.
Love would possess, yet deepens when denied;
And love would give, yet hungers to receive;
Love like a prince his triumph would achieve;
And like a miser in the dark his joys would hide.
Love is most bold:
He leads his dreams like armed men in line;
Yet when the siege is set, and he must speak,
Calling the fortress to resign
Its treasure, valiant love grows weak,
And hardly dares his purpose to unfold.
Less with his faltering lips than with his eyes
He claims the longed-for prize:
Love fain would tell it all, yet leaves the best untold.
But thou shalt speak for love. Yea, thou shalt teach
The mystery of measured tone,
The Pentecostal speech
That every listener heareth as his own.
For on thy head the cloven tongues of fire,--
Diminished chords that quiver with desire,
And major chords that glow with perfect peace,--
Have fallen from above;
And thou canst give release
In music to the burdened heart of love.
Sound with the 'cellos' pleading, passionate strain
The yearning theme, and let the flute reply
In placid melody, while violins complain,
And sob, and sigh,
With muted string;
Then let the oboe half-reluctant sing
Of bliss that trembles on the verge of pain,
While 'cellos plead and plead again,
With throbbing notes delayed, that would impart
To every urgent tone the beating of the heart.
So runs the andante, making plain
The hopes and fears of love without a word.
Then comes the adagio, with a yielding theme
Through which the violas flow soft as in a dream,
While horns and mild bassoons are heard
In tender tune, that seems to float
Like an enchanted boat
Upon the downward-gliding stream,
Toward the allegro's wide, bright sea
Of dancing, glittering, blending tone,
Where every instrument is sounding free,
And harps like wedding-chimes are rung, and trumpets blown
Around the barque of love
That sweeps, with smiling skies above,
A royal galley, many-oared,
Into the happy harbour of the perfect chord.
IX
IRIS
Light to the eye and Music to the ear,--
These are the builders of the bridge that springs
>From earths's dim shore of half-remembered things
To reach the spirit's home, the heavenly sphere
Where nothing silent is and nothing dark.
So when I see the rainbow's arc
Spanning the showery sky, far-off I hear
Music, and every colour sings:
And while the symphony builds up its round
Full sweep of architectural harmony
Above the tide of Time, far, far away I see
A bow of colour in the bow of sound.
Red as the dawn the trumpet rings,
Imperial purple from the trombone flows,
The mellow horn melts into evening rose.
Blue as the sky, the choir of strings
Darkens in double-bass to ocean's hue,
Rises in violins to noon-tide's blue,
With threads of quivering light shot through and through.
Green as the mantle that the summer flings
Around the world, the pastoral reeds in time
Embroider melodies of May and June.
Yellow as gold,
Yea, thrice-refined gold,
And purer than the treasures of the mine,
Floods of the human voice divine
Along the arch in choral song are rolled.
So bends the bow complete:
And radiant rapture flows
Across the bridge, so full, so strong, so sweet,
That the uplifted spirit hardly knows
Whether the Music-Light that glows
Within the arch of tones and colours seven
Is sunset-peace of earth, or sunrise-joy of Heaven.
X
SEA AND SHORE
Music, I yield to thee;
As swimmer to the sea
I give my Spirit to the flood of song:
Bear me upon thy breast
In rapture and at rest,
Bathe me in pure delight and make me strong;
From strife and struggle bring release,
And draw the waves of passion into tides of peace.
Remember'd songs, most dear,
In living songs I hear,
While blending voices gently swing and sway
In melodies of love,
Whose mighty currents move,
With singing near and singing far away;
Sweet in the glow of morning light,
And sweeter still across the starlit gulf of night.
Music, in thee we float,
And lose the lonely note
Of self in thy celestial-ordered strain,
Until at last we find
The life to love resigned
In harmony of joy restored again;
And songs that cheered our mortal days
Break on the coast of light in endless hymns of praise.
I can feel the music, it reaches out to me,
freeing itself from measured lines;
sometimes it vibrates in -depth chords,
with a mysterious pulse of its time.
Music, music, there should always be music,
without it life has no rhythm for design;
it whistles on the wind, it waits to come in,
and it beats with your heart and with mine.
Music touches you the most,
It refreshes you with its serenity.
Be it Do, Re, Me or Sa, Re, Ga, Ma,
Music is the soul of life.
Nothing is as divine as music.
It comes from within
And expresses joys and sorrows
Which reside in the heart.
World is full of music,
Each unique and sweet.
Whether chirping of birds, rustling of wind,
Roar of waves or the music of dolphins.
If music is not a part of life,
It would become a walk on knife.
So listen to music always,
And live some cheerful days.
Take me by the hand;
it's so easy for you, Angel,
for you are the road
even while being immobile.
You see, I'm scared no one
here will look for me again;
I couldn't make use of
whatever was given,
so they abandoned me.
At first the solitude
charmed me like a prelude,
but so much music wounded me.
Translated by A. Poulin
My friend went to the piano; spun the stool
A little higher; left his pipe to cool;
Picked up a fat green volume from the chest;
And propped it open.
Whitely without rest,
His fingers swept the keys that flashed like swords,
. . . And to the brute drums of barbarian hordes,
Roaring and thunderous and weapon-bare,
An army stormed the bastions of the air!
Dreadful with banners, fire to slay and parch,
Marching together as the lightnings march,
And swift as storm-clouds. Brazen helms and cars
Clanged to a fierce resurgence of old wars
Above the screaming horns. In state they passed,
Trampling and splendid on and sought the vast --
Rending the darkness like a leaping knife,
The flame, the noble pageant of our life!
The burning seal that stamps man's high indenture
To vain attempt and most forlorn adventure;
Romance, and purple seas, and toppling towns,
And the wind's valiance crying o'er the downs;
That nerves the silly hand, the feeble brain,
From the loose net of words to deeds again
And to all courage! Perilous and sharp
The last chord shook me as wind shakes a harp!
. . . And my friend swung round on his stool, and from gods we were men,
"How pretty!" we said; and went on with our talk again.
When music sounds, gone is the earth I know,
And all her lovely things even lovelier grow;
Her flowers in vision flame, her forest trees
Lift burdened branches, stilled with ecstasies.
When music sounds, out of the water rise
Naiads whose beauty dims my waking eyes,
Rapt in strange dreams burns each enchanted face,
With solemn echoing stirs their dwelling-place.
When music sounds, all that I was I am
Ere to this haunt of brooding dust I came;
And from Time's woods break into distant song
The swift-winged hours, as I hasten along.
I have been urged by earnest violins
And drunk their mellow sorrows to the slake
Of all my sorrows and my thirsting sins.
My heart has beaten for a brave drum's sake.
Huge chords have wrought me mighty: I have hurled
Thuds of gods' thunder. And with old winds pondered
Over the curse of this chaotic world,-
With low lost winds that maundered as they wandered.
I have been gay with trivial fifes that laugh;
And songs more sweet than possible things are sweet;
And gongs, and oboes. Yet I guessed not half
Life's symphony till I had made hearts beat,
And touched Love's body into trembling cries,
And blown my love's lips into laughs and sighs.
Wait Mister. Which way is home?
They turned the light out
and the dark is moving in the corner.
There are no sign posts in this room,
four ladies, over eighty,
in diapers every one of them.
La la la, Oh music swims back to me
and I can feel the tune they played
the night they left me
in this private institution on a hill.
Imagine it. A radio playing
and everyone here was crazy.
I liked it and danced in a circle.
Music pours over the sense
and in a funny way
music sees more than I.
I mean it remembers better;
remembers the first night here.
It was the strangled cold of November;
even the stars were strapped in the sky
and that moon too bright
forking through the bars to stick me
with a singing in the head.
I have forgotten all the rest.
They lock me in this chair at eight a.m.
and there are no signs to tell the way,
just the radio beating to itself
and the song that remembers
more than I. Oh, la la la,
this music swims back to me.
The night I came I danced a circle
and was not afraid.
Mister?
It plays to my heartstrings...
It is the music to my ears-
...It is the tender love song of my life-
And the refelections of my years...
All in a simple sweet melody-
...The rhythm and harmony flow-
Yes, dancing at my heartstrings-
...The memories, they come and they go...
It is the music of my lifetime-
...It is the gentle refrain, in my head-
'A play it to my soul song'
...Down the road of love-
...I am led...
It is a once, in a lifetime song-
...Forever growing, it is, in me-
It is, a broken heart tune-
...And a haunting melody...
It is the songs of our Nation-
...The Anthems and Hymns...
It is the: 'Glory to the World My Friend, ' song-
...That has become, way too dim...
It is the 'Light of My Life' ballad-
...In perfect melodic harmony-
It is the say it all: 'With Words and Music'
...It is the Best that Music Can Be...
Once played to attentive faces
music has broken its frame
its bodice of always-weak laces
the entirely promiscuous art
pours out in public spaces
accompanying everything, the selections
of sex and war, the rejections.
To jeans-wearers in zipped sporrans
it transmits an ideal body
continuously as theirs age. Warrens
of plastic tiles and mesh throats
dispense this aural money
this sleek accountancy of notes
deep feeling adrift from its feelers
thought that means everything at once
like a shrugging of cream shoulders
like paintings hung on park mesh
sonore doom soneer illy chesh
they lost the off switch in my lifetime
the world reverberates with Muzak
and Prozac. As it doesn't with poe-zac
(I did meet a Miss Universe named Verstak).
Music to me is like days
I rarely catch who composed them
if one's sublime I think God
my life-signs suspend. I nod
it's like both Stilton and cure
from one harpsichord-hum:
penicillium -
then I miss the Köchel number.
I scarcely know whose performance
of a limpid autumn noon is superior
I gather timbre outranks rhumba.
I often can't tell days apart
they are the consumers, not me
in my head collectables decay
I've half-heard every piece of music
the glorious big one with voice
the gleaming instrumental one, so choice
the hypnotic one like weed-smoke at a party
and the muscular one out of farty
cars that goes Whudda Whudda
Whudda like the compound oil heart
of a warrior not of this planet.
Music, when soft voices die,
Vibrates in the memory;
Odours, when sweet violets sicken,
Live within the sense they quicken.
Rose leaves, when the rose is dead,
Are heaped for the beloved's bed;
And so thy thoughts, when thou art gone,
Love itself shall slumber on.
Queen of every moving measure,
Sweetest source of purest pleasure,
Music; why thy powers employ
Only for the sons of joy?
Only for the smiling guests
At natal or at nuptial feasts?
Rather thy lenient numbers pour
On those whom secret griefs devour;
Bid be still the throbbing hearts
Of those, whom death, or absence parts,
And, with some softly whisper'd air,
Smooth the brow of dumb despair.
When through life unblest we rove,
Losing all that made life dear,
Should some notes we used to love,
In days of boyhood, meet our ear,
Oh! how welcome breathes the strain!
Wakening thoughts that long have slept,
Kindling former smiles again
In faded eyes that long have wept.
Like the gale, that sighs along
Beds of oriental flowers,
Is the grateful breath of song,
That once was heard in happier hours.
Fill'd with balm the gale sighs on,
Though the flowers have sunk in death;
So, when pleasure's dream is gone,
Its memory lives in Music's breath.
Music, oh, how faint, how weak,
Language fades before thy spell!
Why should Feeling ever speak,
When thou canst breathe her soul so well?
Friendship's balmy words may feign,
Love's are even more false than they;
Oh! 'tis only music's strain
Can sweetly soothe, and not betray.
Orphus 'twas playing
His most magical tune
While Greek soldiers
Fought under blue moon
Tyrants and despots
Bent towards their evil whims
Undaunting acrimony
Their foul mouths spin
But in the distance
Near the Aegean Sea
Orpheus's music
Has inticed little me
The Oracle announced him
'He's magic' The oracle bemused
Poetry came to me
I so very enthused
The Acropolis of Athen's
Stood tall at attention
In hopes that Orpheus
Would give them honrable  mention
Dedicated to: Origins of Poetry
To Orpheus and all things Greek
I love You...
Limber-limbed, lazy god, stretched on the rock,
Where is sweet Echo, and where is your flock?
What are you making here? 'Listen,' said Pan, -
'Out of a river-reed music for man! '
EXPERIENCE, like a pale musician, holds
A dulcimer of patience in his hand,
Whence harmonies, we cannot understand,
Of God; will in his worlds, the strain unfolds
In sad-perplexed minors: deathly colds
Fall on us while we hear, and countermand
Our sanguine heart back from the fancyland
With nightingales in visionary wolds.
We murmur ' Where is any certain tune
Or measured music in such notes as these ? '
But angels, leaning from the golden seat,
Are not so minded their fine ear hath won
The issue of completed cadences,
And, smiling down the stars, they whisper--
SWEET.
PROUD music of the storm!
Blast that careers so free, whistling across the prairies!
Strong hum of forest tree-tops! Wind of the mountains!
Personified dim shapes! you hidden orchestras!
You serenades of phantoms, with instruments alert,
Blending, with Nature's rhythmus, all the tongues of nations;
You chords left us by vast composers! you choruses!
You formless, free, religious dances! you from the Orient!
You undertone of rivers, roar of pouring cataracts;
You sounds from distant guns, with galloping cavalry!              10
Echoes of camps, with all the different bugle-calls!
Trooping tumultuous, filling the midnight late, bending me powerless,
Entering my lonesome slumber-chamber--Why have you seiz'd me?
Come forward, O my Soul, and let the rest retire;
Listen--lose not--it is toward thee they tend;
Parting the midnight, entering my slumber-chamber,
For thee they sing and dance, O Soul.
A festival song!
The duet of the bridegroom and the bride--a marriage-march,
With lips of love, and hearts of lovers, fill'd to the brim with
love;                                                        20
The red-flush'd cheeks, and perfumes--the cortege swarming, full of
friendly faces, young and old,
To flutes' clear notes, and sounding harps' cantabile.
Now loud approaching drums!
Victoria! see'st thou in powder-smoke the banners torn but flying?
the rout of the baffled?
Hearest those shouts of a conquering army?
(Ah, Soul, the sobs of women--the wounded groaning in agony,
The hiss and crackle of flames--the blacken'd ruins--the embers of
cities,
The dirge and desolation of mankind.)
Now airs antique and medieval fill me!
I see and hear old harpers with their harps, at Welsh festivals:   30
I hear the minnesingers, singing their lays of love,
I hear the minstrels, gleemen, troubadours, of the feudal ages.
Now the great organ sounds,
Tremulous--while underneath, (as the hid footholds of the earth,
On which arising, rest, and leaping forth, depend,
All shapes of beauty, grace and strength--all hues we know,
Green blades of grass, and warbling birds--children that gambol and
play--the clouds of heaven above,)
The strong base stands, and its pulsations intermits not,
Bathing, supporting, merging all the rest--maternity of all the rest;
And with it every instrument in multitudes,                        40
The players playing--all the world's musicians,
The solemn hymns and masses, rousing adoration,
All passionate heart-chants, sorrowful appeals,
The measureless sweet vocalists of ages,
And for their solvent setting, Earth's own diapason,
Of winds and woods and mighty ocean waves;
A new composite orchestra--binder of years and climes--ten-fold
renewer,
As of the far-back days the poets tell--the Paradiso,
The straying thence, the separation long, but now the wandering done,
The journey done, the Journeyman come home,                        50
And Man and Art, with Nature fused again.
Tutti! for Earth and Heaven!
The Almighty Leader now for me, for once has signal'd with his wand.
The manly strophe of the husbands of the world,
And all the wives responding.
The tongues of violins!
(I think, O tongues, ye tell this heart, that cannot tell itself;
This brooding, yearning heart, that cannot tell itself.)
Ah, from a little child,
Thou knowest, Soul, how to me all sounds became music;             60
My mother's voice, in lullaby or hymn;
(The voice--O tender voices--memory's loving voices!
Last miracle of all--O dearest mother's, sister's, voices;)
The rain, the growing corn, the breeze among the long-leav'd corn,
The measur'd sea-surf, beating on the sand,
The twittering bird, the hawk's sharp scream,
The wild-fowl's notes at night, as flying low, migrating north or
south,
The psalm in the country church, or mid the clustering trees, the
open air camp-meeting,
The fiddler in the tavern--the glee, the long-strung sailor-song,
The lowing cattle, bleating sheep--the crowing cock at dawn.       70
All songs of current lands come sounding 'round me,
The German airs of friendship, wine and love,
Irish ballads, merry jigs and dances--English warbles,
Chansons of France, Scotch tunes--and o'er the rest,
Italia's peerless compositions.
Across the stage, with pallor on her face, yet lurid passion,
Stalks Norma, brandishing the dagger in her hand.
I see poor crazed Lucia's eyes' unnatural gleam;
Her hair down her back falls loose and dishevell'd.
I see where Ernani, walking the bridal garden,                     80
Amid the scent of night-roses, radiant, holding his bride by the
hand,
Hears the infernal call, the death-pledge of the horn.
To crossing swords, and grey hairs bared to heaven,
The clear, electric base and baritone of the world,
The trombone duo--Libertad forever!
From Spanish chestnut trees' dense shade,
By old and heavy convent walls, a wailing song,
Song of lost love--the torch of youth and life quench'd in despair,
Song of the dying swan--Fernando's heart is breaking.
Awaking from her woes at last, retriev'd Amina sings;              90
Copious as stars, and glad as morning light, the torrents of her joy.
(The teeming lady comes!
The lustrious orb--Venus contralto--the blooming mother,
Sister of loftiest gods--Alboni's self I hear.)
I hear those odes, symphonies, operas;
I hear in the William Tell, the music of an arous'd and angry people;
I hear Meyerbeer's Huguenots, the Prophet, or Robert;
Gounod's Faust, or Mozart's Don Juan.
I hear the dance-music of all nations,
The waltz, (some delicious measure, lapsing, bathing me in
bliss;)                                                     100
The bolero, to tinkling guitars and clattering castanets.
I see religious dances old and new,
I hear the sound of the Hebrew lyre,
I see the Crusaders marching, bearing the cross on high, to the
martial clang of cymbals;
I hear dervishes monotonously chanting, interspers'd with frantic
shouts, as they spin around, turning always towards Mecca;
I see the rapt religious dances of the Persians and the Arabs;
Again, at Eleusis, home of Ceres, I see the modern Greeks dancing,
I hear them clapping their hands, as they bend their bodies,
I hear the metrical shuffling of their feet.
I see again the wild old Corybantian dance, the performers wounding
each other;                                                 110
I see the Roman youth, to the shrill sound of flageolets, throwing
and catching their weapons,
As they fall on their knees, and rise again.
I hear from the Mussulman mosque the muezzin calling;
I see the worshippers within, (nor form, nor sermon, argument, nor
word,
But silent, strange, devout--rais'd, glowing heads--extatic faces.)
I hear the Egyptian harp of many strings,
The primitive chants of the Nile boatmen;
The sacred imperial hymns of China,
To the delicate sounds of the king, (the stricken wood and stone;)
Or to Hindu flutes, and the fretting twang of the vina,           120
A band of bayaderes.
Now Asia, Africa leave me--Europe, seizing, inflates me;
To organs huge, and bands, I hear as from vast concourses of voices,
Luther's strong hymn, Eine feste Burg ist unser Gott;
Rossini's Stabat Mater dolorosa;
Or, floating in some high cathedral dim, with gorgeous color'd
windows,
The passionate Agnus Dei, or Gloria in Excelsis.
Composers! mighty maestros!
And you, sweet singers of old lands--Soprani! Tenori! Bassi!
To you a new bard, carolling free in the west,
Obeisant, sends his love.                                         130
(Such led to thee, O Soul!
All senses, shows and objects, lead to thee,
But now, it seems to me, sound leads o'er all the rest.)
I hear the annual singing of the children in St. Paul's Cathedral;
Or, under the high roof of some colossal hall, the symphonies,
oratorios of Beethoven, Handel, or Haydn;
The Creation, in billows of godhood laves me.
Give me to hold all sounds, (I, madly struggling, cry,)
Fill me with all the voices of the universe,
Endow me with their throbbings--Nature's also,
The tempests, waters, winds--operas and chants--marches and
dances,                                                     140
Utter--pour in--for I would take them all.
Then I woke softly,
And pausing, questioning awhile the music of my dream,
And questioning all those reminiscences--the tempest in its fury,
And all the songs of sopranos and tenors,
And those rapt oriental dances, of religious fervor,
And the sweet varied instruments, and the diapason of organs,
And all the artless plaints of love, and grief and death,
I said to my silent, curious Soul, out of the bed of the slumber-
chamber,
Come, for I have found the clue I sought so long,                 150
Let us go forth refresh'd amid the day,
Cheerfully tallying life, walking the world, the real,
Nourish'd henceforth by our celestial dream.
And I said, moreover,
Haply, what thou hast heard, O Soul, was not the sound of winds,
Nor dream of raging storm, nor sea-hawk's flapping wings, nor harsh
scream,
Nor vocalism of sun-bright Italy,
Nor German organ majestic--nor vast concourse of voices--nor layers
of harmonies;
Nor strophes of husbands and wives--nor sound of marching soldiers,
Nor flutes, nor harps, nor the bugle-calls of camps;              160
But, to a new rhythmus fitted for thee,
Poems, bridging the way from Life to Death, vaguely wafted in night
air, uncaught, unwritten,
Which, let us go forth in the bold day, and write.
Amber frosted reeds
in the summer's wind
swaying, dancing,
synchronised now
syncopated and back
shouting then singing
xanthine etudes
boisterous and raucous
bright and nimble
leaving pliant
graceful kisses
on a soft smooth cheek
I keep such music in my brain
No din this side of death can quell;
Glory exulting over pain,
And beauty, garlanded in hell.
My dreaming spirit will not heed
The roar of guns that would destroy
My life that on the gloom can read
Proud-surging melodies of joy.
To the world’s end I went, and found
Death in his carnival of glare;
But in my torment I was crowned,
And music dawned above despair.
Corazon sin preguntas.
Illusion's
veils
vani sh.
SINCE first I saw your face I resolved to honour and renown ye;
If now I be disdained I wish my heart had never known ye.
What? I that loved and you that liked, shall we begin to wrangle?
No, no, no, my heart is fast, and cannot disentangle.
If I admire or praise you too much, that fault you may forgive me;
Or if my hands had stray'd but a touch, then justly might you leave
me.
I ask'd you leave, you bade me love; is 't now a time to chide me?
No, no, no, I'll love you still what fortune e'er betide me.
The Sun, whose beams most glorious are, rejecteth no beholder,
And your sweet beauty past compare made my poor eyes the bolder:
Where beauty moves and wit delights and signs of kindness bind me,
There, O there! where'er I go I'll leave my heart behind me!
Sing -- sing -- Music was given
To brighten the gay, and kindle the loving;
Souls here, like planets in heaven,
By harmony's laws alone are kept moving.
Beauty may boast of her eyes and her cheeks,
But Love from the lips his true archery wings;
And she, who but feathers the dart when she speaks,
At once sends it home to the heart when she sings.
Then sing -- sing -- Music was given,
To brighten the gay, and kindle the loving;
Souls here, like planets in heaven,
By harmony's laws alone are kept moving.
When Love, rock'd by his mother,
Lay sleeping as calm as slumber could make him,
"Hush, hush," said Venus, "no other
Sweet voice but his own is worthy to wake him."
Dreaming of music he slumber'd the while,
Till faint from his lip a soft melody broke,
And Venus, enchanted, look'd on with a smile,
While Love to his own sweet singing awoke.
Then sing -- sing -- Music was given,
To brighten the gay, and kindle the loving;
Souls here, like planets in heaven,
By harmony's laws alone are kept moving.
The mellow touch of music most doth wound
The soul, when it doth rather sigh, than sound.
O leave your hand where it lies cool
Upon the eyes whose lids are hot:
Its rosy shade is bountiful
Of silence, and assuages thought.
O lay your lips against your hand
And let me feel your breath through it,
While through the sense your song shall fit
The soul to understand.
The music lives upon my brain
Between your hands within mine eyes;
It stirs your lifted throat like pain,
An aching pulse of melodies.
Lean nearer, let the music pause:
The soul may better understand
Your music, shadowed in your hand
Now while the song withdraws.
How oft, when thou, my music, music play'st,
Upon that blessèd wood whose motion sounds
With thy sweet fingers when thou gently sway'st
The wiry concord that mine ear confounds,
Do I envy those jacks that nimble leap
To kiss the tender inward of thy hand,
Whilst my poor lips, which should that harvest reap,
At the wood's boldness by thee blushing stand!
To be so tickled, they would change their state
And situation with those dancing chips
O'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
Making dead wood more blest than living lips.
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.
Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy.
Why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
If the true concord of well-tunèd sounds,
By unions married, do offend thine ear,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear.
Mark how one string, sweet husband to another,
Strikes each in each by mutual ordering,
Resembling sire and child and happy mother,
Who, all in one, one pleasing note do sing;
Whose speechless song being many, seeming one,
Sings this to thee: "Thou single wilt prove none."
But Music cures in ways akin to drugs;
Enchanting mind, delighting the hearer;
And lulls a child to sleep as mother hugs,
Rejuvenates the wearied work better.
And calms the nerves and soothens broken heart,
Evoking emotions of any type;
Music has destressing effect in part;
But hymns create a ho1iness and hype.
And Music heals the body parts as such,
Removing pain, relaxing muscles well;
Its rhythm helps the breathing pattern much,
Its magic holds man, beasts, plants under spell!
Yet, Music has lesser side-effects used;
And keeps the patient, Doctor both amused.
861
Split the Lark—and you'll find the Music—
Bulb after Bulb, in Silver rolled—
Scantilly dealt to the Summer Morning
Saved for your Ear when Lutes be old.
Loose the Flood—you shall find it patent—
Gush after Gush, reserved for you—
Scarlet Experiment! Sceptic Thomas!
Now, do you doubt that your Bird was true?
There's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away
When the glow of early thought declines in feeling's dull decay;
'Tis not on youth's smooth cheek the blush alone, which fades so fast,
But the tender bloom of heart is gone, ere youth itself be past.
Then the few whose spirits float above the wreck of happiness
Are driven o'er the shoals of guilt, or ocean of excess:
The magnet of their course is gone, or only points in vain
The shore to which their shivered sail shall never stretch again.
Then the mortal coldness of the soul like death itself comes down;
It cannot feel for others' woes, it dare not dream its own;
That heavy chill has frozen o'er the fountain of our tears,
And though the eye may sparkle still, 'tis where the ice appears.
Though wit may flash from fluent lips, and mirth distract the breast,
Through midnight hours that yield no more their former hope of rest,
'Tis but as ivy-leaves around the ruined turret wreath—
All green and wildly fresh without, but worn and grey beneath.
Oh, could I feel as I have felt, or be what I have been,
Or weep as I could once have wept, o'er many a vanished scene;
As springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be,
So, midst the withered waste of life, those tears would flow to me.
O Music hast thou only heard
The laughing river, the singing bird,
The murmuring wind in the poplar-trees,--
Nothing but Nature's melodies?
Nay, thou hearest all her tones,
As a Queen must hear!
Sounds of wrath and fear,
Mutterings, shouts, and moans,
Madness, tumult, and despair,
All she has that shakes the air
With voices fierce and wild!
Thou art a Queen and not a dreaming child,--
Put on thy crown and let us hear thee reign
Triumphant in a world of storm and strain!
Echo the long-drawn sighs
Of the mounting wind in the pines;
And the sobs of the mounting waves that rise
In the dark of the troubled deep
To break on the beach in fiery lines.
Echo the far-off roll of thunder,
Rumbling loud
And ever louder, under
The blue-black curtain of cloud,
Where the lightning serpents gleam.
Echo the moaning
Of the forest in its sleep
Like a giant groaning
In the torment of a dream.
Now an interval of quiet
For a moment holds the air
In the breathless hush
Of a silent prayer.
Then the sudden rush
Of the rain, and the riot
Of the shrieking, tearing gale
Breaks loose in the night,
With a fusillade of hail!
Hear the forest fight,
With its tossing arms that crack and clash
In the thunder's cannonade,
While the lightning's forked flash
Brings the old hero-trees to the ground with a crash!
Hear the breakers' deepening roar,
Driven like a herd of cattle
In the wild stampede of battle,
Trampling, trampling, trampling, to overwhelm the shore!
Is it the end of all?
Will the land crumble and fall?
Nay, for a voice replies
Out of the hidden skies,
"Thus far, O sea, shalt thou go,
So long, O wind, shalt thou blow:
Return to your bounds and cease,
And let the earth have peace!"
O Music, lead the way--
The stormy night is past,
Lift up our hearts to greet the day,
And the joy of things that last.
The dissonance and pain
That mortals must endure,
Are changed in thine immortal strain
To something great and pure.
True love will conquer strife,
And strength from conflict flows,
For discord is the thorn of life
And harmony the rose.
How beautiful the sounds
Of music in your ears;
It makes you dance, & sing, & hear
All the grandeur of the years.  Just listen to that Tuba
And Violin strings so sweet;
It brings memories to many
Who recall dancing in the street!  So climb upon the bandwagon
Of memories young & old;
It may help all music lovers
To put sweet music in life's mold!  Sweet music, oh sweet music
How grand the tunes all sound,
Just listen to those different songs
And know they're all profound!
THAT music always round me, unceasing, unbeginning--yet long untaught
I did not hear;
But now the chorus I hear, and am elated;
A tenor, strong, ascending, with power and health, with glad notes of
day-break I hear,
A soprano, at intervals, sailing buoyantly over the tops of immense
waves,
A transparent bass, shuddering lusciously under and through the
universe,
The triumphant tutti--the funeral wailings, with sweet flutes and
violins--all these I fill myself with;
I hear not the volumes of sound merely--I am moved by the exquisite
meanings,
I listen to the different voices winding in and out, striving,
contending with fiery vehemence to excel each other in emotion;
I do not think the performers know themselves--but now I think I
begin to know them.
Silence is a great blue bell
Swinging and ringing, tinkling and singing,
In measure’s pleasure, and in the supple symmetry
of the soaring of the immense intense wings
glinting against
All the blue radiance above us and within us, hidden
Save for the stars sparking, distant and unheard in their
singing.
And this is the first meaning of the famous saying,
The stars sang. They are the white birds of silence
And the meaning of the difficult famous saying that the
sons and daughters of morning sang,
Meant and means that they were and they are the children
of God and morning,
Delighting in the lights of becoming and the houses of
being,
Taking pleasure in measure and excess, in listening as in
seeing.
Love is the most difficult and dangerous form of courage.
Courage is the most desperate, admirable and noble kind of
love.
So that when the great blue bell of silence is stilled and
stopped or broken
By the babel and chaos of desire unrequited, irritated and
frustrated,
When the heart has opened and when the heart has spoken
Not of the purity and symmetry of gratification, but action
of insatiable distraction’s dissatisfaction,
Then the heart says, in all its blindness and faltering
emptiness:
There is no God. Because I am hope. And hope must be
fed.
And then the great blue bell of silence is deafened, dumbed,
and has become the tomb of the living dead.
A vase upon the mantelpiece,
A ship upon the sea,
A goat upon a mountain-top
Are much the same to me;
But when you mention melon jam,
Or picnics by the creek,
Or apple pies, or pantomimes,
I love to hear you speak.
The date of Magna Charta or
The doings of the Dutch,
Or capes, or towns, or verbs, or nouns
Do not excite me much;
But when you mention motor rides -
Down by the sea for choice
Or chasing games, or chocolates,
I love to hear your voice.
I hear the music
The music is playing
The music is soft
The music is now fading
The music is gone
Which means so is my life
No music means no life
The music is gone
Come back to me music
The Music is begining
I have a life
The music is pretty
The Music is wonderful
Oh no
The music is fading again
I love the music
The music is gone
Good bye music
THERE is a Lady sweet and kind,
Was never face so pleased my mind;
I did but see her passing by,
And yet I love her till I die.
Her gesture, motion, and her smiles,
Her wit, her voice my heart beguiles,
Beguiles my heart, I know not why,
And yet I love her till I die.
Cupid is winged and doth range,
Her country so my love doth change:
But change she earth, or change she sky,
Yet will I love her till I die.
The sound of music gives us so much emotions
and that plays a melody deep in our heart greatly
All the sound on the earth are like music
and the music brings love and enjoyment to our life
Music expresses universal language of the world
and brings people together where ever they live
The music is the best gift of God to all of us
where its fills our soul with peace and mind with creativity
Every music has its own rhythm
and it's creates a great sound of music
Music in the mountain brings peace in our heart
and music in the ocean fills our soul with love
When I hear the sound of music
then I begin to write a song as a soul of music
If you don't love the sound of music
then your soul will be unsung
Because music can put life in to a dead man
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2006 Ravi Sathasivam
Other loves may sink and settle, other loves may loose and slack,
But I wander like a minstrel with a harp upon my back,
Though the harp be on my bosom, though I finger and I fret,
Still, my hope is all before me; for I cannot play it yet.
In your strings is hid a music that no hand hath e'er let fall,
In your soul is sealed a pleasure that you have not known at all;
Pleasure subtle as your spirit, strange and slender as your frame,
Fiercer than the pain that folds you, softer than your sorrow's name.
Not as mine, my soul's annointed, not as mine the rude and light
Easy mirth of many faces, swaggering pride of song and fight;
Something stranger, something sweeter, something waiting you afar,
Secret as your stricken senses, magic as your sorrows are.
But on this, God's harp supernal, stretched but to be stricken once,
Hoary time is a beginner, Life a bungler, Death a dunce.
But I will not fear to match them - no by God, I will not fear,
I will learn you, I will play you and the stars stand still to hear.
If music and sweet poetry agree,
As they must needs (the sister and the brother),
Then must the love be great 'twixt thee and me,
Because thou lov'st the one, and I the other.
Dowland to thee is dear, whose heavenly touch
Upon the lute doth ravish human sense;
Spenser to me, whose deep conceit is such
As, passing all conceit, needs no defence.
Thou lov'st to hear the sweet melodious sound
That Ph{oe}bus' lute (the queen of music), makes;
And I in deep delight am chiefly drown'd
Whenas himself to singing he betakes.
One god is god of both (as poets feign),
One knight loves both, and both in thee remai
Music, thou queen of heaven, care-charming spell,
That strik'st a stillness into hell;
Thou that tam'st tigers, and fierce storms, that rise,
With thy soul-melting lullabies;
Fall down, down, down, from those thy chiming spheres
To charm our souls, as thou enchant'st our ears.
Music: breathing of statues. Perhaps:
silence of paintings. You language where all language
ends. You time
standing vertically on the motion of mortal hearts.
Feelings for whom? O you the transformation
of feelings into what?--: into audible landscape.
You stranger: music. You heart-space
grown out of us. The deepest space in us,
which, rising above us, forces its way out,--
holy departure:
when the innermost point in us stands
outside, as the most practiced distance, as the other
side of the air:
pure,
boundless,
no longer habitable.
Translated by Stephen Mitchell
Begin to charm, and as thou strok'st mine ears
With thine enchantment, melt me into tears.
Then let thy active hand scud o'er thy lyre,
And make my spirits frantic with the fire;
That done, sink down into a silvery strain,
And make me smooth as balm and oil again.
Charms, that call down the moon from out her sphere,
On this sick youth work your enchantments here!
Bind up his senses with your numbers, so
As to entrance his pain, or cure his woe.
Fall gently, gently, and a-while him keep
Lost in the civil wilderness of sleep:
That done, then let him, dispossess'd of pain,
Like to a slumbering bride, awake again.
Charm me asleep, and melt me so
With thy delicious numbers;
That being ravish'd, hence I go
Away in easy slumbers.
Ease my sick head,
And make my bed,
Thou Power that canst sever
From me this ill;--
And quickly still,
Though thou not kill
My fever.
Thou sweetly canst convert the same
From a consuming fire,
Into a gentle-licking flame,
And make it thus expire.
Then make me weep
My pains asleep,
And give me such reposes,
That I, poor I,
May think, thereby,
I live and die
'Mongst roses.
Fall on me like a silent dew,
Or like those maiden showers,
Which, by the peep of day, do strew
A baptism o'er the flowers.
Melt, melt my pains
With thy soft strains;
That having ease me given,
With full delight,
I leave this light,
And take my flight
For Heaven.
Sister and mother and diviner love,
And of the sisterhood of the living dead
Most near, most clear, and of the clearest bloom,
And of the fragrant mothers the most dear
And queen, and of diviner love the day
And flame and summer and sweet fire, no thread
Of cloudy silver sprinkles in your gown
Its venom of renown, and on your head
No crown is simpler than the simple hair.
Now, of the music summoned by the birth
That separates us from the wind and sea,
Yet leaves us in them, until earth becomes,
By being so much of the things we are,
Gross effigy and simulacrum, none
Gives motion to perfection more serene
Than yours, out of our own imperfections wrought,
Most rare, or ever of more kindred air
In the laborious weaving that you wear.
For so retentive of themselves are men
That music is intensest which proclaims
The near, the clear, and vaunts the clearest bloom,
And of all the vigils musing the obscure,
That apprehends the most which sees and names,
As in your name, an image that is sure,
Among the arrant spices of the sun,
O bough and bush and scented vine, in whom
We give ourselves our likest issuance.
Yet not too like, yet not so like to be
Too near, too clear, saving a little to endow
Our feigning with the strange unlike, whence springs
The difference that heavenly pity brings.
For this, musician, in your girdle fixed
Bear other perfumes. On your pale head wear
A band entwining, set with fatal stones.
Unreal, give back to us what once you gave:
The imagination that we spurned and crave.
Submitted by Adriana C
The flower in the glass peanut bottle formerly in the
kitchen crooked to take a place in the light,
the closet door opened, because I used it before, it
kindly stayed open waiting for me, its owner.
I began to feel my misery in pallet on floor, listening
to music, my misery, that's why I want to sing.
The room closed down on me, I expected the presence
of the Creator, I saw my gray painted walls and
ceiling, they contained my room, they contained
me
as the sky contained my garden,
I opened my door
The rambler vine climbed up the cottage post,
the leaves in the night still where the day had placed
them, the animal heads of the flowers where they had
arisen
to think at the sun
Can I bring back the words? Will thought of
transcription haze my mental open eye?
The kindly search for growth, the gracious de-
sire to exist of the flowers, my near ecstasy at existing
among them
The privilege to witness my existence-you too
must seek the sun...
My books piled up before me for my use
waiting in space where I placed them, they
haven't disappeared, time's left its remnants and qual-
ities for me to use--my words piled up, my texts, my
manuscripts, my loves.
I had a moment of clarity, saw the feeling in
the heart of things, walked out to the garden crying.
Saw the red blossoms in the night light, sun's
gone, they had all grown, in a moment, and were wait-
ing stopped in time for the day sun to come and give
them...
Flowers which as in a dream at sunset I watered
faithfully not knowing how much I loved them.
I am so lonely in my glory--except they too out
there--I looked up--those red bush blossoms beckon-
ing and peering in the window waiting in the blind love,
their leaves too have hope and are upturned top flat
to the sky to receive--all creation open to receive--the
flat earth itself.
The music descends, as does the tall bending
stalk of the heavy blssom, because it has to, to stay
alive, to continue to the last drop of joy.
The world knows the love that's in its breast as
in the flower, the suffering lonely world.
The Father is merciful.
The light socket is crudely attached to the ceil-
ing, after the house was built, to receive a plug which
sticks in it alright, and serves my phonograph now...
The closet door is open for me, where I left it,
since I left it open, it has graciously stayed open.
The kitchen has no door, the hole there will
admit me should I wish to enter the kitchen.
I remember when I first got laid, H.P. gra-
ciously took my cherry, I sat on the docks of Prov-
incetown, age 23, joyful, elevated in hope with the
Father, the door to the womb wasopen to admit me
if I wished to enter.
There are unused electricity plugs all over my
house if I ever needed them.
The kitchen window is open, to admit air...
The telephone--sad to relate--sits on the
floor--I haven't had the money to get it connected--
I want people to bow when they see me and say
he is gifted with poetry, he has seen the presence of
the Creator
And the Creator gave me a shot of his presence
to gratify my wish, so as not to cheat me of my yearning
for him.
An account of books 16-19 of the Iliad by Homer.
Down on your knees, Achilles.  Farther down.
Now forward on your hands and put your face into the dirt,
And scrub it to and fro.
Grief has you by the hair with one
And with the forceps of its other hand
Uses your mouth to trowel the dogshit up;
Watches you lift your arms to Heaven; and then
Pounces and screws your nose into the filth.
Gods have plucked drawstrings from your head,
And from the templates of your upper lip
Modelled their bows.
Not now.  Not since
Your grieving reaches out and pistol-whips
That envied face, until
Frightened to bear your black, backbreaking agony alone,
You sank, throat back, thrown back, your voice
Thrown out across the sea to reach your Source.
Break off! Dance no more!
Danger is at the door.
Music is in arms.
To signal war's alarms.
Hark, a sudden trumpet calling
Over the hill!
Why are you calling, trumpet, calling?
What is your will?
Men, men, men !
Men who are ready to fight
For their country's life, and the right
Of a liberty-loving land to be
Free, free, free!
Free from a tyrant's chain,
Free from dishonor's stain,
Free to guard and maintain
All that her fathers fought for,
All that her sons have wrought for,
Resolute, brave, and free!
Call again, trumpet, call again,
Call up the men!
Do you hear the storm of cheers
Mingled with the women's tears
And the tramp, tramp, tramp of marching feet?
Do you hear the throbbing drum
As the hosts of battle come
Keeping time, time, time to its beat?
O Music give a song
To make their spirit strong
For the fury of the tempest they must meet.
The hoarse roar
Of the monster guns;
And the sharp bark
Of the lesser guns;
The whine of the shells,
The rifles' clatter
Where the bullets patter,
The rattle, rattle, rattle
Of the mitrailleuse in battle,
And the yells
Of the men who charge through hells
Where the poison gas descends,
And the bursting shrapnel rends
Limb from limb
In the dim
Chaos and clamor of the strife
Where no man thinks of his life
But only of fighting through,
Blindly fighting through, through!
'Tis done
At last!
The victory won,
The dissonance of warfare past!
O Music mourn the dead
Whose loyal blood was shed,
And sound the taps for every hero slain;
Then lead into the song
That made their spirit strong,
And tell the world they did not die in vain.
Thank God we can see, in the glory of morn,
The invincible flag that our fathers defended;
And our hearts can repeat what the heroes have sworn,
That war shall not end till the war-lust is ended.
Then the bloodthirsty sword shall no longer be lord
Of the nations oppressed by the conqueror's horde,
But the banners of freedom shall peacefully wave
O'er the world of the free and the lands of the brave.
The words are a beautiful music.
The words bounce like in water.
Water music,
loud in the clearing
off the boats,
birds, leaves.
They look for a place
to sit and eat-
no meaning,
no point.
We are the music-makers,
And we are the dreamers of dreams,
Wandering by lone sea-breakers,
And sitting by desolate streams.
World-losers and world-forsakers,
Upon whom the pale moon gleams;
Yet we are the movers and shakers,
Of the world forever, it seems.
With wonderful deathless ditties
We build up the world's great cities,
And out of a fabulous story
We fashion an empire's glory:
One man with a dream, at pleasure,
Shall go forth and conquer a crown;
And three with a new song's measure
Can trample an empire down.
We, in the ages lying
In the buried past of the earth,
Built Nineveh with our sighing,
And Babel itself with our mirth;
And o'erthrew them with prophesying
To the old of the new world's worth;
For each age is a dream that is dying,
Or one that is coming to birth.
Music is freedom that relentlessly exists
Freedom of speech
Freedom of thought
Freedom of creativity
Freedom of imagination
Music is ever soothingly healing
A bombardment of on-going expression of feelings
Music is a tool of unity
Always bringing people together as family
Hence be described as a mentor of spirituality
Music is magic
Performing its tricks
With sweet instrumental tones and lyrics
Music is emotionally captivating
Music is positively distracting
Music is a form of beautiful art
Passed on as a message on a public stage
Music is as powerful as water
Flowing in and out of generations
Trapped ever so often only by its own enormous power
Music is an angel
Singing out from the skies as she flies
Music is love
Music is the food of all moods
Music is perfect and it is good for you
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I - CRAZY JANE AND THE BISHOP
BRING me to the blasted oak
That I, midnight upon the stroke,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
May call down curses on his head
Because of my dear Jack that's dead.
Coxcomb was the least he said:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Nor was he Bishop when his ban
Banished Jack the Journeyman,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor so much as parish priest,
Yet he, an old book in his fist,
Cried that we lived like beast and beast:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
The Bishop has a skin, God knows,
Wrinkled like the foot of a goose,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor can he hide in holy black
The heron's hunch upon his back,
But a birch-tree stood my Jack:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Jack had my virginity,
And bids me to the oak, for he
(all find safety in the tomb.)
Wanders out into the night
And there is shelter under it,
But should that other come, I spit:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
II - CRAZY JANE REPROVED
I CARE not what the sailors say:
All those dreadful thunder-stones,
All that storm that blots the day
Can but show that Heaven yawns;
Great Europa played the fool
That changed a lover for a bull.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
To round that shell's elaborate whorl,
Adorning every secret track
With the delicate mother-of-pearl,
Made the joints of Heaven crack:
So never hang your heart upon
A roaring, ranting journeyman.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
III - CRAZY JANE ON THE DAY OF JUDGMENT
'LOVE is all
Unsatisfied
That cannot take the whole
Body and soul';
And that is what Jane said.
'Take the sour
If you take me
I can scoff and lour
And scold for an hour.'
'That's certainly the case,' said he.
'Naked I lay,
The grass my bed;
Naked and hidden away,
That black day';
And that is what Jane said.
'What can be shown?
What true love be?
All could be known or shown
If Time were but gone.'
'That's certainly the case,' said he.
IV - CRAZY JANE AND JACK THE JOURNEYMAN
I KNOW, although when looks meet
I tremble to the bone,
The more I leave the door unlatched
The sooner love is gone,
For love is but a skein unwound
Between the dark and dawn.
A lonely ghost the ghost is
That to God shall come;
I -- love's skein upon the ground,
My body in the tomb --
Shall leap into the light lost
In my mother's womb.
But were I left to lie alone
In an empty bed,
The skein so bound us ghost to ghost
When he turned his head
passing on the road that night,
Mine must walk when dead.
V - CRAZY JANE ON GOD
THAT lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go;
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.
VI - CRAZY JANE TALKS WITH THE BISHOP
I MET the Bishop on the road
And much said he and I.
'Those breasts are flat and fallen now,
Those veins must soon be dry;
Live in a heavenly mansion,
Not in some foul sty.'
'Fair and foul are near of kin,
And fair needs foul,' I cried.
'My friends are gone, but that's a truth
Nor grave nor bed denied,
Learned in bodily lowliness
And in the heart's pride.
'A woman can be proud and stiff
When on love intent;
But Love has pitched his mansion in
The place of excrement;
For nothing can be sole or whole
That has not been rent.'
VII - CRAZY JANE GROWN OLD LOOKS AT THE DANCERS
I FOUND that ivory image there
Dancing with her chosen youth,
But when he wound her coal-black hair
As though to strangle her, no scream
Or bodily movement did I dare,
Eyes under eyelids did so gleam;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
When She, and though some said she played
I said that she had danced heart's truth,
Drew a knife to strike him dead,
I could but leave him to his fate;
For no matter what is said
They had all that had their hate;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
Did he die or did she die?
Seemed to die or died they both?
God be with the times when I
Cared not a thraneen for what chanced
So that I had the limbs to try
Such a dance as there was danced --
Love is like the lion's tooth.
VIII - GIRL'S SONG
I WENT out alone
To sing a song or two,
My fancy on a man,
And you know who.
Another came in sight
That on a stick relied
To hold himself upright;
I sat and cried.
And that was all my song --
When everything is told,
Saw I an old man young
Or young man old?
IX - YOUNG MAN'S SONG
'SHE will change,' I cried.
'Into a withered crone.'
The heart in my side,
That so still had lain,
In noble rage replied
And beat upon the bone:
'Uplift those eyes and throw
Those glances unafraid:
She would as bravely show
Did all the fabric fade;
No withered crone I saw
Before the world was made.'
Abashed by that report,
For the heart cannot lie,
I knelt in the dirt.
And all shall bend the knee
To my offended heart
Until it pardon me.
X - HER ANXIETY
EARTH in beauty dressed
Awaits returning spring.
All true love must die,
Alter at the best
Into some lesser thing.
Prove that I lie.
Such body lovers have,
Such exacting breath,
That they touch or sigh.
Every touch they give,
Love is nearer death.
Prove that I lie.
XI - HIS CONFIDENCE
UNDYING love to buy
I wrote upon
The corners of this eye
All wrongs done.
What payment were enough
For undying love?
I broke my heart in two
So hard I struck.
What matter? for I know
That out of rock,
Out of a desolate source,
Love leaps upon its course.
XII - LOVE'S LONELINESS
OLD fathers, great-grandfathers,
Rise as kindred should.
If ever lover's loneliness
Came where you stood,
Pray that Heaven protect us
That protect your blood.
The mountain throws a shadow,
Thin is the moon's horn;
What did we remember
Under the ragged thorn?
Dread has followed longing,
And our hearts are torn.
XIII - HER DREAM
I DREAMED as in my bed I lay,
All night's fathomless wisdom come,
That I had shorn my locks away
And laid them on Love's lettered tomb:
But something bore them out of sight
In a great tumult of the air,
And after nailed upon the night
Berenice's burning hair.
XIV - HIS BARGAIN
WHO talks of Plato's spindle;
What set it whirling round?
Eternity may dwindle,
Time is unwound,
Dan and Jerry Lout
Change their loves about.
However they may take it,
Before the thread began
I made, and may not break it
When the last thread has run,
A bargain with that hair
And all the windings there.
XV - THREE THINGS
'O CRUEL Death, give three things back,'
Sang a bone upon the shore;
'A child found all a child can lack,
Whether of pleasure or of rest,
Upon the abundance of my breast':
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
'Three dear things that women know,'
Sang a bhone upon the shore;
'A man if I but held him so
When my body was alive
Found all the pleasure that life gave':
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
'The third thing that I think of yet,'
Sang a bone upon the shore,
'Is that morning when I met
Face to face my rightful man
And did after stretch and yawn':
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
XVI - LULLABY
BELOVED, may your sleep be sound
That have found it where you fed.
What were all the world's alarms
To mighty paris when he found
Sleep upon a golden bed
That first dawn in Helen's arms?
Sleep, beloved, such a sleep
As did that wild Tristram know
When, the potion's work being done,
Roe could run or doe could leap
Under oak and beechen bough,
Roe could leap or doe could run;
Such a sleep and sound as fell
Upon Eurotas' grassy bank
When the holy bird, that there
Accomplished his predestined will,
From the limbs of Leda sank
But not from her protecting care.
XVII - AFTER LONG SILENCE
SPEECH after long silence; it is right,
All other lovers being estranged or dead,
Unfriendly lamplight hid under its shade,
The curtains drawn upon unfriendly night,
That we descant and yet again descant
Upon the supreme theme of Art and Song:
Bodily decrepitude is wisdom; young
We loved each other and were ignorant.
XVIII - MAD AS THE MIST AND SNOW
BOLT and bar the shutter,
For the foul winds blow:
Our minds are at their best this night,
And I seem to know
That everything outside us is
Mad as the mist and snow.
Horace there by Homer stands,
Plato stands below,
And here is Tully's open page.
How many years ago
Were you and I unlettered lads
Mad as the mist and snow?
You ask what makes me sigh, old friend,
What makes me shudder so?
I shudder and I sigh to think
That even Cicero
And many-minded Homer were
Mad as the mist and snow.
XIX - THOSE DANCING DAYS ARE GONE
COME, let me sing into your ear;
Those dancing days are gone,
All that silk and satin gear;
Crouch upon a stone,
Wrapping that foul body up
In as foul a rag:
I carry the sun in a golden cup.
The moon in a silver bag.
Curse as you may I sing it through;
What matter if the knave
That the most could pleasure you,
The children that he gave,
Are somewhere sleeping like a top
Under a marble flag?
I carry the sun in a golden cup.
The moon in a silver bag.
I thought it out this very day.
Noon upon the clock,
A man may put pretence away
Who leans upon a stick,
May sing, and sing until he drop,
Whether to maid or hag:
I carry the sun in a golden cup,
The moon in a silver bag.
XX - 'I AM OF IRELAND'
AM of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,' cried she.
'Come out of charity,
Come dance with me in Ireland.'
One man, one man alone
In that outlandish gear,
One solitary man
Of all that rambled there
Had turned his stately head.
That is a long way off,
And time runs on,' he said,
'And the night grows rough.'
I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,' cried she.
'Come out of charity
And dance with me in Ireland.'
The fiddlers are all thumbs,
Or the fiddle-string accursed,
The drums and the kettledrums
And the trumpets all are burst,
And the trombone,' cried he,
'The trumpet and trombone,'
And cocked a malicious eye,
'But time runs on, runs on.'
I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,' cried she.
'Come out of charity
And dance with me in Ireland.'
XXI - THE DANCER AT CRUACHAN AND CRO-PATRICK
I, PROCLAIMING that there is
Among birds or beasts or men
One that is perfect or at peace.
Danced on Cruachan's windy plain,
Upon Cro-patrick sang aloud;
All that could run or leap or swim
Whether in wood, water or cloud,
Acclaiming, proclaiming, declaiming Him.
XXII - TOM THE LUNATIC
SANG old Tom the lunatic
That sleeps under the canopy:
'What change has put my thoughts astray
And eyes that had s-o keen a sight?
What has turned to smoking wick
Nature's pure unchanging light?
'Huddon and Duddon and Daniel O'Leary.
Holy Joe, the beggar-man,
Wenching, drinking, still remain
Or sing a penance on the road;
Something made these eyeballs weary
That blinked and saw them in a shroud.
'Whatever stands in field or flood,
Bird, beast, fish or man,
Mare or stallion, cock or hen,
Stands in God's unchanging eye
In all the vigour of its blood;
In that faith I live or die.'
XXIII - TOM AT CRUACHAN
ON Cruachan's plain slept he
That must sing in a rhyme
What most could shake his soul:
'The stallion Eternit
Mounted the mare of Time,
'Gat the foal of the world.'
XXIV - OLD TOM AGAIN
THINGS out of perfection sail,
And all their swelling canvas wear,
Nor shall the self-begotten fail
Though fantastic men suppose
Building-yard and stormy shore,
Winding-sheet and swaddling -- clothes.
XXV - THE DELPHIC ORACLE UPON PLOTINUS
BEHOLD that great Plotinus swim,
Buffeted by such seas;
Bland Rhadamanthus beckons him,
But the Golden Race looks dim,
Salt blood blocks his eyes.
Scattered on the level grass
Or winding through the grove
plato there and Minos pass,
There stately Pythagoras
And all the choir of Love.
The lies you
whisper so sweetly
into my ears
can never touch
my callused heart.
Which serves only
to make them
infinitely more precious.
A trout-colored wind blows
through my eyes, through my fingers,
and I remember how the trout
used to hide from the dinosaurs
when they came to drink at the river.
The trout hid in subways, castles,
and automobiles. They waited patiently for the dinosaurs to go away.
Young laughters, and my music! Aye till now
The voice can reach no blending minors near;
'Tis the bird's trill because the spring is here
And spring means trilling on a blossomy bough;
'Tis the spring joy that has no why or how,
But sees the sun and hopes not nor can fear--
Spring is so sweet and spring seems all the year.
Dear voice, the first-come birds but trill as thou.
Oh music of my heart, be thus for long:
Too soon the spring bird learns the later song;
Too soon a sadder sweetness slays content
Too soon! There comes new light on onward day,
There comes new perfume o'er a rosier way:
Comes not again the young spring joy that went.
Look at my hair
Dancing in the air
Look at the trees
Bowing with the breeze
Look at the flowers
Dancing in the showers
Look all and all around
Up in the sky and down on the ground.
It's said that every species in the world
displays one gift beyond the scope of Man.
How dangerous the skies - for men, and birds -
how soiled the air, if wings were in Man's span!
Suppose that every species made extinct
by Man, the guardian of all things that live,
deprived us (as indeed it may..)   by dint
of mindlessness, of something God's mind gives?
I watch the spider, humble in my praise:
self-spinning tightrope walker; engineer;
the knower of all Nature's weathered ways
and bold explorer on the winds that veer:
Nature spares the spider Man's wild mind;
should mind in Nature rest, there's more to find.
A busker on a unicycle
Dances with the birds
As teaming hordes of grey brained apes
Wend their way to work
He juggles socks to their delight
N couldn’t give a rats
If the price of oil is up or down
Or the wheat board has collapsed
And every now and then
I feel I’d like to be that fool
To bare my soul to nature
While the pigeons burble “cool”
The sun smiles,
forcefully examining the bitterness of the leaves
that have become
crushed under the weight
of the eve’s rainfall.
I look on,
curiously wondering
why the sun seems to give light,
to even the most shattering
displays of nature’s fury.
I am broken, I think.
The sun has never fixed me.
Outside the drops of rain evaporate steadily.
Dew, which once subsided in even the most porous
of surfaces
has all but disappeared,
confronted  instead
by a warmth as steady
as the sun is iridescent.
You are an observer, I say.
Callous, cold, and unfeeling.
On the ground two squirrels fight playfully.
An acorn has fallen between the two,
and with quizzical wonderment
I watch as a
stalled fury erupts
into a courtship like dance
of dominator
versus
domineered.
Atleast they have each other, I muse.
Who do you have?
The last remnants of darkness have lifted
and the birds respond with a steady hum.
In their song I hear them say,
serenity, serenity:
this is the world.
I turn my head,
And dropp my gaze
downward.
Serenity, serenity,
Is not the world’s way.
The sun rises fully,
I sit on the ground.
Copyright (c)      David DeSantis
I've found a friend in nature
although nature could turn on me
if i'm out and about in a storm
and its lightning strikes me
if a tidal wave sweeps me far out to sea
or a poisonous snake takes a bite of me
if a tornado twirls me high into the sky
yes, the irony is that nature which
i find so enchanting
could one day cause my demise
All nature has a feeling: woods, fields, brooks
Are life eternal: and in silence they
Speak happiness beyond the reach of books;
There's nothing mortal in them; their decay
Is the green life of change; to pass away
And come again in blooms revivified.
Its birth was heaven, eternal it its stay,
And with the sun and moon shall still abide
Beneath their day and night and heaven wide.
Captured in the Psalms are the most eloquent Praises
And to read and ponder them affords one great graces.
The Lord's is the earth, and the sea, and the sky;
His is the moon, stars, sun and clouds rolling by.
His Seasons glorify Him each in their own way.
Think of the hope in the beauty of a Spring day,
Thunderclaps and lightning of Summer at play,
Fall's russets, browns, and yellows in breezes sway,
And Winter's cold, chill, and ice, with snows that lay.
Ponder the land with rocks, hills and mountains,
Rivers, streams, and geysers spewing like fountains.
Consider the lilies, roses, shrubs and trees
Which cause one to thank God on bended knees.
Think about the creatures on the land and in the sea
And Praise God for everyone that has come to be.
Praise the Lord morning, noon and night
Sing out His Praises with all of our might.
Keep a book of prayers within easy reach;
Devour everything it is meant to teach.
~ Let's remember ~
captured in the Psalms are the most eloquent Praises;
To read and ponder them affords one great graces,
For the Word of God throughout all ages
Is contained in our Bibles' well-worn pages.
The brilliant colors of the night
The soft spoken morning glow
My world can be so perfect
That’s why I love it so
Earthy tones surround me
With pop-up flowers born
Fragrances so delicious
In the dew of early morn
The sky lights up just for me
With each newly woven style
I put everything aside
To enjoy for a little while
Nature is so amazing to me
I love it every single day
Each morning is freshly exciting
In its own unique and perfect way!
I have loved colours, and not flowers;
Their motion, not the swallows wings;
And wasted more than half my hours
Without the comradeship of things.
How is it, now, that I can see,
With love and wonder and delight,
The children of the hedge and tree,
The little lords of day and night?
How is it that I see the roads,
No longer with usurping eyes,
A twilight meeting-place for toads,
A mid-day mart for butterflies?
I feel, in every midge that hums,
Life, fugitive and infinite,
And suddenly the world becomes
A part of me and I of it.
A comet came with a large metal core
Racing ‘cross the heavens toward the sun it tore
It started to shed its frozen surface
Of gasses, vapors, and minerals it bore
A collection of time from deep out in space
Now littered its trail with cosmic waste
But as its course closed in too near
It parted the flux of the Heliosphere
Then out of the Sun's plasmatic sea
Leaped an enormous flare
That swiped the hare
A giant shock wave
From the forces that be
Gravity, centrifugal, and a nuclear blast
Sent the fuel supplier again on the chase
Back out to the heavens on a new pace
Flinging it further out into space
On a much longer run which might be its last
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
When I behold a forest spread
With silken trees upon thy head;
And when I see that other dress
Of flowers set in comeliness;
When I behold another grace
In the ascent of curious lace,
Which, like a pinnacle, doth shew
The top, and the top-gallant too;
Then, when I see thy tresses bound
Into an oval, square, or round,
And knit in knots far more than I.
Can tell by tongue, or True-love tie;
Next, when those lawny films I see
Play with a wild civility;
And all those airy silks to flow,
Alluring me, and tempting so--
I must confess, mine eye and heart
Dotes less on nature than on art.
Brillance
captures the aura of
natures picturesque horizon
basking in the autumn hues of
blazing horizontal line
Shades of gray form the stage for
this mystical beauty, while shades
of blue illuminate the skies,
hidden in wait of early morn.
An awesome chance to gaze upon
Mother Natures artistic design.
Look!
Make it yours for all time.
When first the crocus thrusts its point of gold
Up through the still snow-drifted garden mould,
And folded green things in dim woods unclose
Their crinkled spears, a sudden tremor goes
Into my veins and makes me kith and kin
To every wild-born thing that thrills and blows.
Sitting beside this crumbling sea-coal fire,
Here in the city's ceaseless roar and din,
Far from the brambly paths I used to know,
Far from the rustling brooks that slip and shine
Where the Neponset alders take their glow,
I share the tremulous sense of bud and briar
And inarticulate ardors of the vine.
A walk in Nature never boring in Nature great beauty to see
The wild birds are chirping and singing on fence wire and bush and on tree
Away from the street and the traffic from human made pollution and noise
Above the gray scrub by the river the skylark he sings as he flies.
The poets have been inspired by Nature and of her great beauty they sing
The swallows return to their Homeplace when they sense the coming of Spring
And the artists they paint Nature's beauty the woodlands in their Autumn brown
And one can see the beauty of Nature even in the park of your town.
My stay on this Planet a brief stay but Mother Nature will live on
And the birds will be heard in the woodlands when I am forgotten and gone
Our lives they are not that important for our lives they are numbered in hours
But Mother Nature is forever and she outlives her beautiful flowers.
A walk in Nature never boring though she hides her secrets from me
Her birds always chirping and singing on hedge and on bush and on tree
My stay on this Planet a brief stay our average span ten years with three score
But Mother Nature is not for the reaper and she will live forever more
As the molecules expand in the warm air
The sap cells flow upward without a care
From the tighter root cells of the cold thawing ground
To the warmer branches is where they're bound
Then in the rain the cool upward side
Constricts to lift the branches to cause the rain to glide
Down the trunk to the roots where the sap is made
Because the warmer underside of the branch bows up with pride
And for all this the deciduous tree provides us shade
During the summer's hot tide
Then falls the air temp and the tree constricts
Sending the sap cells back into the ground
The warmer roots is where they will be found
During winter's chill while the trunk restricts
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
Theres a poem in every flower,
a sonnet in every tree,
a tale in every lifetime
its just for you to see...
theres a lyric in every brook
as it rushes over rocks,
theres  an ode in every nuance,
as loves wonder unlocks,
theres rhythm in every sound,
every beating of a heart,
theres poetry in every union
and every couple who are apart
and just as there is wonder
in every new life created
there is sadness and regret,
for the unsaid and unfeted
just listen for the music
that your ears cannot hear,
just strain yourself for the melody
thats so far and yet so near
the wonder of the creator,
the magic of the divine
is there to feel, for all of us,
to soon be yours and mine
it'll be you and me
up in the tree
and the forest will give us the answers
it'll be you and i
up in the sky
we'll be so high
its a combination for disaster
i'll be yours and you'll be mine
its a law i cannot define but the fire
will keep us burning for eachother
it'll be us against them
the current churnning again
as the waves bind us together
A simple tiny bud
Grows to maturity, blooms
Fragrance grace garden
Nov.4/06
First, then, I say, the mind which oft we call
The intellect, wherein is seated life's
Counsel and regimen, is part no less
Of man than hand and foot and eyes are parts
Of one whole breathing creature. But some hold
That sense of mind is in no fixed part seated,
But is of body some one vital state,-
Named "harmony" by Greeks, because thereby
We live with sense, though intellect be not
In any part: as oft the body is said
To have good health (when health, however, 's not
One part of him who has it), so they place
The sense of mind in no fixed part of man.
Mightily, diversly, meseems they err.
Often the body palpable and seen
Sickens, while yet in some invisible part
We feel a pleasure; oft the other way,
A miserable in mind feels pleasure still
Throughout his body- quite the same as when
A foot may pain without a pain in head.
Besides, when these our limbs are given o'er
To gentle sleep and lies the burdened frame
At random void of sense, a something else
Is yet within us, which upon that time
Bestirs itself in many a wise, receiving
All motions of joy and phantom cares of heart.
Now, for to see that in man's members dwells
Also the soul, and body ne'er is wont
To feel sensation by a "harmony"
Take this in chief: the fact that life remains
Oft in our limbs, when much of body's gone;
Yet that same life, when particles of heat,
Though few, have scattered been, and through the mouth
Air has been given forth abroad, forthwith
Forever deserts the veins, and leaves the bones.
Thus mayst thou know that not all particles
Perform like parts, nor in like manner all
Are props of weal and safety: rather those-
The seeds of wind and exhalations warm-
Take care that in our members life remains.
Therefore a vital heat and wind there is
Within the very body, which at death
Deserts our frames. And so, since nature of mind
And even of soul is found to be, as 'twere,
A part of man, give over "harmony"-
Name to musicians brought from Helicon,-
Unless themselves they filched it otherwise,
To serve for what was lacking name till then.
Whate'er it be, they're welcome to it- thou,
Hearken my other maxims.
Mind and soul,
I say, are held conjoined one with other,
And form one single nature of themselves;
But chief and regnant through the frame entire
Is still that counsel which we call the mind,
And that cleaves seated in the midmost breast.
Here leap dismay and terror; round these haunts
Be blandishments of joys; and therefore here
The intellect, the mind. The rest of soul,
Throughout the body scattered, but obeys-
Moved by the nod and motion of the mind.
This, for itself, sole through itself, hath thought;
This for itself hath mirth, even when the thing
That moves it, moves nor soul nor body at all.
And as, when head or eye in us is smit
By assailing pain, we are not tortured then
Through all the body, so the mind alone
Is sometimes smitten, or livens with a joy,
Whilst yet the soul's remainder through the limbs
And through the frame is stirred by nothing new.
But when the mind is moved by shock more fierce,
We mark the whole soul suffering all at once
Along man's members: sweats and pallors spread
Over the body, and the tongue is broken,
And fails the voice away, and ring the ears,
Mists blind the eyeballs, and the joints collapse,-
Aye, men drop dead from terror of the mind.
Hence, whoso will can readily remark
That soul conjoined is with mind, and, when
'Tis strook by influence of the mind, forthwith
In turn it hits and drives the body too.
And this same argument establisheth
That nature of mind and soul corporeal is:
For when 'tis seen to drive the members on,
To snatch from sleep the body, and to change
The countenance, and the whole state of man
To rule and turn,- what yet could never be
Sans contact, and sans body contact fails-
Must we not grant that mind and soul consist
Of a corporeal nature?- And besides
Thou markst that likewise with this body of ours
Suffers the mind and with our body feels.
If the dire speed of spear that cleaves the bones
And bares the inner thews hits not the life,
Yet follows a fainting and a foul collapse,
And, on the ground, dazed tumult in the mind,
And whiles a wavering will to rise afoot.
So nature of mind must be corporeal, since
From stroke and spear corporeal 'tis in throes.
Now, of what body, what components formed
Is this same mind I will go on to tell.
First, I aver, 'tis superfine, composed
Of tiniest particles- that such the fact
Thou canst perceive, if thou attend, from this:
Nothing is seen to happen with such speed
As what the mind proposes and begins;
Therefore the same bestirs itself more swiftly
Than aught whose nature's palpable to eyes.
But what's so agile must of seeds consist
Most round, most tiny, that they may be moved,
When hit by impulse slight. So water moves,
In waves along, at impulse just the least-
Being create of little shapes that roll;
But, contrariwise, the quality of honey
More stable is, its liquids more inert,
More tardy its flow; for all its stock of matter
Cleaves more together, since, indeed, 'tis made
Of atoms not so smooth, so fine, and round.
For the light breeze that hovers yet can blow
High heaps of poppy-seed away for thee
Downward from off the top; but, contrariwise,
A pile of stones or spiny ears of wheat
It can't at all. Thus, in so far as bodies
Are small and smooth, is their mobility;
But, contrariwise, the heavier and more rough,
The more immovable they prove. Now, then,
Since nature of mind is movable so much,
Consist it must of seeds exceeding small
And smooth and round. Which fact once known to thee,
Good friend, will serve thee opportune in else.
This also shows the nature of the same,
How nice its texture, in how small a space
'Twould go, if once compacted as a pellet:
When death's unvexed repose gets hold on man
And mind and soul retire, thou markest there
From the whole body nothing ta'en in form,
Nothing in weight. Death grants ye everything,
But vital sense and exhalation hot.
Thus soul entire must be of smallmost seeds,
Twined through the veins, the vitals, and the thews,
Seeing that, when 'tis from whole body gone,
The outward figuration of the limbs
Is unimpaired and weight fails not a whit.
Just so, when vanished the bouquet of wine,
Or when an unguent's perfume delicate
Into the winds away departs, or when
From any body savour's gone, yet still
The thing itself seems minished naught to eyes,
Thereby, nor aught abstracted from its weight-
No marvel, because seeds many and minute
Produce the savours and the redolence
In the whole body of the things. And so,
Again, again, nature of mind and soul
'Tis thine to know created is of seeds
The tiniest ever, since at flying-forth
It beareth nothing of the weight away.
Yet fancy not its nature simple so.
For an impalpable aura, mixed with heat,
Deserts the dying, and heat draws off the air;
And heat there's none, unless commixed with air:
For, since the nature of all heat is rare,
Athrough it many seeds of air must move.
Thus nature of mind is triple; yet those all
Suffice not for creating sense- since mind
Accepteth not that aught of these can cause
Sense-bearing motions, and much less the thoughts
A man revolves in mind. So unto these
Must added be a somewhat, and a fourth;
That somewhat's altogether void of name;
Than which existeth naught more mobile, naught
More an impalpable, of elements
More small and smooth and round. That first transmits
Sense-bearing motions through the frame, for that
Is roused the first, composed of little shapes;
Thence heat and viewless force of wind take up
The motions, and thence air, and thence all things
Are put in motion; the blood is strook, and then
The vitals all begin to feel, and last
To bones and marrow the sensation comes-
Pleasure or torment. Nor will pain for naught
Enter so far, nor a sharp ill seep through,
But all things be perturbed to that degree
That room for life will fail, and parts of soul
Will scatter through the body's every pore.
Yet as a rule, almost upon the skin
These motion aIl are stopped, and this is why
We have the power to retain our life.
Now in my eagerness to tell thee how
They are commixed, through what unions fit
They function so, my country's pauper-speech
Constrains me sadly. As I can, however,
I'll touch some points and pass. In such a wise
Course these primordials 'mongst one another
With intermotions that no one can be
From other sundered, nor its agency
Perform, if once divided by a space;
Like many powers in one body they work.
As in the flesh of any creature still
Is odour and savour and a certain warmth,
And yet from an of these one bulk of body
Is made complete, so, viewless force of wind
And warmth and air, commingled, do create
One nature, by that mobile energy
Assisted which from out itself to them
Imparts initial motion, whereby first
Sense-bearing motion along the vitals springs.
For lurks this essence far and deep and under,
Nor in our body is aught more shut from view,
And 'tis the very soul of all the soul.
And as within our members and whole frame
The energy of mind and power of soul
Is mixed and latent, since create it is
Of bodies small and few, so lurks this fourth,
This essence void of name, composed of small,
And seems the very soul of all the soul,
And holds dominion o'er the body all.
And by like reason wind and air and heat
Must function so, commingled through the frame,
And now the one subside and now another
In interchange of dominance, that thus
From all of them one nature be produced,
Lest heat and wind apart, and air apart,
Make sense to perish, by disseverment.
There is indeed in mind that heat it gets
When seething in rage, and flashes from the eyes
More swiftly fire; there is, again, that wind,
Much, and so cold, companion of all dread,
Which rouses the shudder in the shaken frame;
There is no less that state of air composed,
Making the tranquil breast, the serene face.
But more of hot have they whose restive hearts,
Whose minds of passion quickly seethe in rage-
Of which kind chief are fierce abounding lions,
Who often with roaring burst the breast o'erwrought,
Unable to hold the surging wrath within;
But the cold mind of stags has more of wind,
And speedier through their inwards rouses up
The icy currents which make their members quake.
But more the oxen live by tranquil air,
Nor e'er doth smoky torch of wrath applied,
O'erspreading with shadows of a darkling murk,
Rouse them too far; nor will they stiffen stark,
Pierced through by icy javelins of fear;
But have their place half-way between the two-
Stags and fierce lions. Thus the race of men:
Though training make them equally refined,
It leaves those pristine vestiges behind
Of each mind's nature. Nor may we suppose
Evil can e'er be rooted up so far
That one man's not more given to fits of wrath,
Another's not more quickly touched by fear,
A third not more long-suffering than he should.
And needs must differ in many things besides
The varied natures and resulting habits
Of humankind- of which not now can I
Expound the hidden causes, nor find names
Enough for all the divers shapes of those
Primordials whence this variation springs.
But this meseems I'm able to declare:
Those vestiges of natures left behind
Which reason cannot quite expel from us
Are still so slight that naught prevents a man
From living a life even worthy of the gods.
So then this soul is kept by all the body,
Itself the body's guard, and source of weal;
For they with common roots cleave each to each,
Nor can be torn asunder without death.
Not easy 'tis from lumps of frankincense
To tear their fragrance forth, without its nature
Perishing likewise: so, not easy 'tis
From all the body nature of mind and soul
To draw away, without the whole dissolved.
With seeds so intertwined even from birth,
They're dowered conjointly with a partner-life;
No energy of body or mind, apart,
Each of itself without the other's power,
Can have sensation; but our sense, enkindled
Along the vitals, to flame is blown by both
With mutual motions. Besides the body alone
Is nor begot nor grows, nor after death
Seen to endure. For not as water at times
Gives off the alien heat, nor is thereby
Itself destroyed, but unimpaired remains-
Not thus, I say, can the deserted frame
Bear the dissevering of its joined soul,
But, rent and ruined, moulders all away.
Thus the joint contact of the body and soul
Learns from their earliest age the vital motions,
Even when still buried in the mother's womb;
So no dissevering can hap to them,
Without their bane and ill. And thence mayst see
That, as conjoined is their source of weal,
Conjoined also must their nature be.
If one, moreover, denies that body feel,
And holds that soul, through all the body mixed,
Takes on this motion which we title "sense"
He battles in vain indubitable facts:
For who'll explain what body's feeling is,
Except by what the public fact itself
Has given and taught us? "But when soul is parted,
Body's without all sense." True!- loses what
Was even in its life-time not its own;
And much beside it loses, when soul's driven
Forth from that life-time. Or, to say that eyes
Themselves can see no thing, but through the same
The mind looks forth, as out of opened doors,
Is- a hard saying; since the feel in eyes
Says the reverse. For this itself draws on
And forces into the pupils of our eyes
Our consciousness. And note the case when often
We lack the power to see refulgent things,
Because our eyes are hampered by their light-
With a mere doorway this would happen not;
For, since it is our very selves that see,
No open portals undertake the toil.
Besides, if eyes of ours but act as doors,
Methinks that, were our sight removed, the mind
Ought then still better to behold a thing-
When even the door-posts have been cleared away.
Herein in these affairs nowise take up
What honoured sage, Democritus, lays down-
That proposition, that primordials
Of body and mind, each super-posed on each,
Vary alternately and interweave
The fabric of our members. For not only
Are the soul-elements smaller far than those
Which this our body and inward parts compose,
But also are they in their number less,
And scattered sparsely through our frame. And thus
This canst thou guarantee: soul's primal germs
Maintain between them intervals as large
At least as are the smallest bodies, which,
When thrown against us, in our body rouse
Sense-bearing motions. Hence it comes that we
Sometimes don't feel alighting on our frames
The clinging dust, or chalk that settles soft;
Nor mists of night, nor spider's gossamer
We feel against us, when, upon our road,
Its net entangles us, nor on our head
The dropping of its withered garmentings;
Nor bird-feathers, nor vegetable down,
Flying about, so light they barely fall;
Nor feel the steps of every crawling thing,
Nor each of all those footprints on our skin
Of midges and the like. To that degree
Must many primal germs be stirred in us
Ere once the seeds of soul that through our frame
Are intermingled 'gin to feel that those
Primordials of the body have been strook,
And ere, in pounding with such gaps between,
They clash, combine and leap apart in turn.
But mind is more the keeper of the gates,
Hath more dominion over life than soul.
For without intellect and mind there's not
One part of soul can rest within our frame
Least part of time; companioning, it goes
With mind into the winds away, and leaves
The icy members in the cold of death.
But he whose mind and intellect abide
Himself abides in life. However much
The trunk be mangled, with the limbs lopped off,
The soul withdrawn and taken from the limbs,
Still lives the trunk and draws the vital air.
Even when deprived of all but all the soul,
Yet will it linger on and cleave to life,-
Just as the power of vision still is strong,
If but the pupil shall abide unharmed,
Even when the eye around it's sorely rent-
Provided only thou destroyest not
Wholly the ball, but, cutting round the pupil,
Leavest that pupil by itself behind-
For more would ruin sight. But if that centre,
That tiny part of eye, be eaten through,
Forthwith the vision fails and darkness comes,
Though in all else the unblemished ball be clear.
'Tis by like compact that the soul and mind
Are each to other bound forevermore.
Calm is all nature as a resting wheel.
The kine are couched upon the dewy grass;
The horse alone, seen dimly as I pass,
Is cropping audibly his later meal:
Dark is the ground; a slumber seems to steal
O'er vale, and mountain, and the starless sky.
Now, in this blank of things, a harmony,
Home-felt, and home-created, comes to heal
That grief for which the senses still supply
Fresh food; for only then, when memory
Is hushed, am I at rest. My Friends! restrain
Those busy cares that would allay my pain;
Oh! leave me to myself, nor let me feel
The officious touch that makes me droop again.
The falling of snowflakes coming down
Making a blanket of white on the ground.
Autumn with red and gold-leaves,
Falling to the ground, in a cool breeze.
The rising of the sun of crimson,
A buzzing of the Bees,
As they go on their mission.
A cool-breese blowing in the trees.
The beautiful- flowers of red, yellow, and blue.
The sparkling of grass, with morning-dew.
The sea is beautiful, with Blue-sky above.
The flying of sea-gulls and of doves.
The birds singing up in the trees,
As a gentle-wind blows the green-leaves.
Beautiful-butterflies going their way.
The beauty of nature, really make my day!
The wind is trying to tell me something
Just softly murmuring and whispering
Gently touching my skin and  making me tingle
Breathe in the freshness and let it mingle
Take in the new earth after its been drenched of rain
Ease your minds out of the painful past and all the pain
Sing with the wind resurfacing the music that slowly died
Feel the vibrations of nature's love and not your hurt pride
Sway with the new crop out there in the fields
And not the dagger of your anger that it wields
The rose has wilted but a new bud has arisen
Release the past and let it out from your prison
Life is transient and you may not be able to capture love
But beauty is constant and it will always keep you above
Dark smouldering eyes
Shiver ran up my spine
Seething anger inside
His eyes looked straight into mine
Minutes stretching wide
So majestic and acquiline
Frozen to the core, my body numb
His body taut, ready to spring
If the glass had not been there, I would've succumbed
Giving me a last look, he soared up spreading his wings
The age dawns, the weather fair
Nature warms, without a care
To the North, the winter's cold
A storm rages, from what I'm told
Faraway, the surface flares
Intense heat, with increased glare
A time lag, from there to here
Waves arrive, earth's atmosphere
To the North, electrons barged
Dance the sky, crystallites charged
Waves of light, to those aware
Color night, beyond compare
Warming trends, begin right there
Increased waves, excite the air
Molecules in microwaves
Together rub, and so behave
It's the same with solar flares
Greenhouse effect, but with God's care
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun   sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun
When the beautiful morning comes
The rays of rising sun kiss her
When the garden of nature open its heart
The garden of flowers hugs her to welcome
When the trees dance to tune of wind
The birds singing to the nature's choir
When the gentleness of nature is filled pleasure
Then the earth get wet with weather
When the nature forgets its vastness
Then the God shows her how big her place on earth
Let us thank God for his creation and given us
eyes to see lovely gift - Nature
I have enchanted all of Nature
And forged each moment's quality.
And what a horrifying freedom
I found in such a sorcery!
My constant guilt - with no beginning
Spread till all limit-zones were passed;
The body far away expanded,
And depths opened that were so vast.
Thell I called out to the Prime-Mover,
My challenge unto Heaven thrown;
The stars and planets gave the answer:
I made Nature myself, alone.
I love time out with Nature and I love peace and quiet
To walk along the gravel path in the evening sunlight
When the wild birds are singing and Spring is in her prime
And even memories of such inspire the soul to rhyme.
I love time out with Nature a brief release from care
For Nature she is generous her gifts with all she share
We drink of her clear spring waters and we breathe in her life sustaining air
And Nature's splendid beauty is around us everywhere.
I love time out with Nature the only God I know
Her stream from the high country down to the river flow
The skylark from the rank grass in the mood for song he fly
One of Nature's feathered minstrels he carols in the sky.
In time out with Mother Nature from life's cares I find ease
The sounds of the leaves rustling in the freshening evening breeze
And we much like the Seasons to life we come and go
But Nature lives forever the only God I know.
Have you ever seen the offspring of a cross between a sheep and goat
Of the parents in the young one you can see a bit of both
With the physical appearance of a goat and sheep strange as that may appear
Born of an act of Nature and in Nature of stranger things one does hear.
And anything in Nature is never a strange thing
A cross between a starling and a myna has a pleasant song to sing
But when humans tamper with Nature 'tis there the wrong comes in
Though some with their degrees on natural science respect for their work do win.
On what happens within Nature humans should not have a say
And leave Nature to Nature she does things her own way
Some results of Nature may seem quite strange to see
But what happens within Nature happens naturally.
Humans do not tamper with Nature leave Nature to her own device
Every time we tamper with her for to pay there is some price
The mad cow disease is one example when meat and bone to cows was fed
Just one of the many bad results of humans tampering with Nature one might say enough said.
Let us go gentle with the nature
It has given us many
Blessings to be proud of
Learn your Botany, Anatomy,
Geography, Astronomy, etc…
Before it is too late
Regardless of what the nature
Is giving us
A non-wise person will always
Fail to see the good side of it
He or She will only see curse
But let the rest of us go gentle with the nature…
www.frederickyamusangie.or g.uk
As I walked along the path
Crushing grass under with wrath
That wanted to whisper sounds
Left unsaid beyond bounds
As I rested under the tree
One blue leaf fell on me
That wanted to conspire with light
Planning future far in sight
As I passed a well-known tree
One blue and blushing smile on me
That  brought me back my youth
And sure, well did it soothe
As I passed the mountain still
Stopping wind to play on hill
Flirting flower and dancing deer
Lulling leaves all keep me near
As the brooding breeze did wink
And the fading sun did sink
Bringing me my memory past
Dissolving the moon at last
When I left a lasting sigh
Dancing waves did keep me high
How Nature creates life thats dear with ease?
How Nature sifts, selects, protects the best?
Yet, man creates, sometimes with new disease;
In ways, unheard of, costly, but with zest.
Yet, man destroys the human lives with ease;
And Nature too gets maimed beyond salvage;
Destruction too is done for mega fees;
Thus, Man lives in an earth, he turned his cage!
Who gave man rights to destroy his own race?
Who gave him this freedom to procreate?
And man has given earth a bizzare face;
Most sufferings, man-made will ne'er abate.
When will man know that life is good, precious?
When will man learn his ways are bad, vicious?
It is no vulgar nature I have wived.
Secretive, sensitive, she takes a wound
Deep to her soul, as if the sense had swooned,
And not a thought of vengeance had survived.
No confidences has she: but relief
Must come to one whose suffering is acute.
O have a care of natures that are mute!
They punish you in acts: their steps are brief.
What is she doing? What does she demand
From Providence or me? She is not one
Long to endure this torpidly, and shun
The drugs that crowd about a woman's hand.
At Forfeits during snow we played, and I
Must kiss her. 'Well performed!' I said: then she:
''Tis hardly worth the money, you agree?'
Save her? What for? To act this wedded lie!
You claim my birth.
Why do I call you mother?
when your earthquakes rumble and shake the earth
when your fiery mouth gobbles up the forests and unsuspecting villagers
when you belch & engulf your children along your shores
when you loose your fury of fire & bury so many in homeless dust
when your tornadic winds grope furiously for trailers & all your children’s  things
when your wrath no limits knows and your water & oil do not mix
No mother do I know who lets her children thirst.
No mother do I know who burns her children’s skin.
No mother do I know who is so uncaring about who hungers or drowns.
You hold back your gifts & then let flood of such plenitude,
So intent on giving birth and nothing more, with no regrets..
- Oct.10,2007
Often I marvel at Mother Nature
And its unique adventures
It has in stock for us
I have to say Mother Nature is the boss
Everyone has DNA-like life experience
Sometimes it can be monotonously intense
But Mother Nature is supreme
And Mother Nature is extreme
Often I ponder on why Mother Nature
Is sporadically insane with jealousy
Committing many a time unspeakable atrocities
Tornados, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions
It showers, making its necessary modifications
Tidal waves are its trademark of destruction
Of natural and artificial creations
But Mother Nature always makes up
With multiplication and replication of the living!
I could sleep with him a million times
and he'd still be a volatile son-of-a-bitch.
His parents don't know what he never saw in her:
he couldn't see past the charm into her
manipulative heart,
her cunning wits—
charged like a negative ion.
Not unapproachably pretty—
she rocked every persona she encountered,
leaving the petty to their petty ways.
Picking the brains clean with her dry realism—
her sadistic thirst for life;
the unquenchable desire she was equipped with
at birth.
Pathetic and desperate, incorrect description.
Mad and brilliant, exact representation.
She knew
all I was hoping for
was a little time with you all.
She knew
if the day was bright and sunny
he would be out riding his bike
and the girls would be busy soaking up the sun.
You would inevitably have work to do
whether it was changing the spark plugs
on one of our half-dead vehicles
or mending the fence
to keep our squirrel-crazy bassett hound from escaping.
She knew
I would probably plant flowers by myself.
I love planting flowers
but, I can do that anyday.
Today I wanted to spend with those
who have made me a mother.
She knew
if she dropped the temperature
down into the 40's
you would all surely
seek the warmth of the house.
She knew
that a light drizzle
of ice-cold rain
would ensure your company
throughout the day.
As I curl up on the couch
with all of you surrounding me
and I listen to the predictable bickering
over the popcorn bowl,
I silently thank her
for giving me the gift I wanted most
for Mothers Day.
My family.
I'm glad she knows me so well.
Thank you Mother Nature.
Happy Mothers Day!
I feel that I have heard enough of talk of World strife
And what I need is joy and love and peace back in my life
And I must refrain from listening to the radio news and watching T.V.
For rumours of revenge and war is worrying to me.
My God is of the female kind and she is dressed in green
And she is very beautiful the finest I have seen
And in these times of tension where the seed of hatred grow
I turn to Mother Nature the only God I know.
In the scrub patch across the way in the cool evening breeze
The honeyeaters and wattlebirds on the banksia trees
Are chirping and singing and at this time of year
The voices of the male birds all day long you hear.
The children of Mother Nature my God's family
In Nature's wild garden living wild and free
They live on the nectar of tree blossoms and flowers
And their worries are little when compared to ours.
On the news on the radio and the T.V.
These rumours of war seem all too much for me
So I turn to my God Mother Nature in moments like these
And in her green garden I find peace and ease.
Return, dear friend!
Please return home to Nature!
Feel the fresh mud under your feet,
Feel the cool sensation of the brown earth,
Feel the clean earth, free of all dust and dirt.
Feel and breathe the unpolluted air around you!
Re-live, my dear friend!
Re-live the splendours of Nature!
Treat the flora and fauna with tenderness,
Touch the petals and leaves with gentleness,
Tune in with nature with love abundance,
Turn to nature to get rid of all your pretentiousness!
Re-unite, my dear friend and comrade!
Return home to the arms of Mother Nature!
Open your eyes to the mysteries of nature,
Open your mind to the marvels of plants and animals!
They thrive everywhere!
They adapt themselves
To the climatic changes,
Whether in land or in water,
Whether drought or flood,
Whether scorching heat or freezing cold!
There is no higher authority that they can complain to,
There is no person on whom they can put the blame on,
They only make an effort to live,
They only strive to survive!
Learn from the plants the power of endurance,
Learn from the animals to survive with tolerance!
835
Nature and God—I neither knew
Yet Both so well knew me
They startled, like Executors
Of My identity.
Yet Neither told—that I could learn—
My Secret as secure
As Herschel's private interest
Or Mercury's affair—
Sun glows at
The break of dawn.
Trees with outstretched hands
Flirt with the winds.
Embellished with
Pleasant sounds
From birds and the bees
It's Nature at ease.
(20 April,2006)
Nature Baby as free as a bird
Nature Baby not speaking a word
Nature Baby living day by day
Nature Baby always floating away. Feeling the soil around my feet
The sun rays beating down with heat
My being feeling like I'm not physically here
And when I look around I'm so much more aware. The energy keeps coming my way
As I buzz through life and play
Nature Baby being free
Nature Baby that is me
That is what is meant to be. Nature Baby gave the garden lots of love and energy
And now the gardens have surrounded me with beauty
And the heavenly scents from each flower in bloom
As we share the space within this big room. Nature Baby as free as a bird
Nature Baby not speaking a word.
This bogey is a fing
What lives up in your nose
And how they comes to get there
No one really knows
Me grandad likes to blow ‘is out
And then he takes a look
I fink he’s double checking
Just how many he has took
But me see, I is different
I likes to pick ‘em out
By stickin’ up me finger
And jiggling it about
Then when I knows I got one
I quickly whips it out
But I don’t shows I got one
‘cause mum would scream and shout
So then I likes to hold it
Between me fum and finger
I roll it round into a ball
And then I lets it linger
While I finks about a place
Where I can go and stick it
But sometimes when you’re hungry
A bogey’s just the ticket
So this one, what I got right here
I fought you’d like to meet it
It’s big and grey and rubbery
And now I’m gonna eat it!
Disasters aplenty, run-rampant today
Why? You may ask with look of dismay
What causes natural disasters you naively inquire
Mother earth fights for herself with water and fire
Defending with great winds and terrible quakes
Polar icecaps melting and pandemic outbreaks
She’s taken mankind’s abuse for hundreds of years
Exploited by amoral and depraved profiteers
She’s had more than enough, her patience grew thin
The wicked against her fight a war they won’t win
“I will burn them, flood them and shake them to bits”
Till the will of mankind bends and submits”
Mother Earth, made perfect by Gods Loving Hands
Created azure skies, blue waters, bountiful lands
Seeding water, land with life great and small
Providing bounteous food for one and for all
Why has mankind taken more than his God-Given share
Despoiled Earth Mother’s water, soil and polluted her air
The answer’s complex, not easy to voice
Only one word comes close, that word is “choice”
Poor choices, judgment in what mankind has done
Defiling their home with cruel aberration
So what must man do to set things right
He must love Mother Earth, stop causing such blight
Banish internal darkness, take in God’s Light
Reclaim his saneness, clear his eyesight
Restore duty-bound stewardship, regain command
Of oceans, skies and all expanses of land
No alternatives exist to these actions, as time has run out
Of this...
Earth Mother is certain with no exception or doubt
ROTMS
Either tortoises live long lives because they don’t hurry
or they don’t hurry because they live long lives.
"Nature" is what we see—
The Hill—the Afternoon—
Squirrel—Eclipse—the Bumble bee—
Nay—Nature is Heaven—
Nature is what we hear—
The Bobolink—the Sea—
Thunder—the Cricket—
Nay—Nature is Harmony—
Nature is what we know—
Yet have no art to say—
So impotent Our Wisdom is
To her Simplicity.
nature is what we dont see
for instance the essence that pushes words out
for this poem fated for posterity
the birds that without fail
chirp at first light, morn breeze
the unseen clock working at the dot
nature is what we dont see
the nocturnal bloom, that folds itself
in the day, throws its fragrance
in the dead of night as lovers
hide in each others' bossoms
below the soft glare of the moon
centimetre by centimetre
it has inched forward to exhibit its
full blown majestry to the world
Nature is what we dont see
the shadow play master tilting the earth
the petals for its bloom dance
the successive cells here there
guided towards optimal functions
and that ogiasmic tremour
that shuttles the world round and round
nature is what you should not see
the formulas, secrets kept behind everything
that could get even einstein mad
in unveiling, explaining them
nature is what we all should not see
nor equipped to see
though it rambles through our every cell
like the worst of storm
When the morning sun rises in the sky
When the new day is born as beautiful
When the dew drops rolls down the leaves
When the garden of flowers hugs the nature
and shower its fragrance and makes nature proud
When the trees leaves oxygen for mankind
starts dancing to the tune of wind
When the birds sits on top of the trees and
singing to the nature's choir with happiness
When the fauna in the jungle sets free to live proudly
When the stream water gurgles from the mountain
and when wet earth makes barren land fertile
When the farmers glorify the nature with happiness
and start to cultivate food for the nations
When the sun sets behind the green mountains
and the moon start to light the nation
When the nature forgets its vastness
Then the God show his creation on his earth.
Close your eyes and you can see
the way the world's suppose to be
Sunrise on a clear blue sky
fields of daisies, soft butterflies
Tall trees, leaves glistening with dew
streams and rivers flowing thru
Birds singing and flying high
gentle breezes with cloudless skies
Snow caps on the mountain tops
valleys of green that never stop
Ocean waves and pure white sand
animals grazing on the land
Feel the wind in your hair
smell the flowers, blooms everywhere
See the beauty, today is new
Enjoy nature-God's gift to you
Creamy pink flowers blossoming off orchard trees,
Sweet smelling flowers with pollen to attract bees.
Everyday a new green leaf from a tree grows,
With such speed the water in a river flows.
Snow-covered mountains, at great heights that people climb,
Such creations are extremely hard to find
From the grains of sand to the vast deep oceans,
To produce such amazing beauty, god must have made some kind of potion.
human nature, mother nature,
enough of your torture.
safely nature, easy nature,
play your game,
foolish nature, custom nature,
I know your plan
can you nature, would you nature,
try to run away.
stupid nature, poor nature.
find my secret.
Miserable nature, faulty nature,
get out of my way.
It is in my nature,
It is my nature,
don't give me away.
I always thought,
What is there in the nature?
Why everyone wants to be in the nature’s lap?
Where is the end of this nature?
Who has made this nature?
When will it destroy?
So one day,
To find solution to these 5 w’s
Went away from pollution,
And found a place,
Behind a
Beautiful, huge, leafy
Tree
I spend just 15 minutes
In the green glory
And instead of having my answers with me,
My questions took a new meaning.
Now I thought,
What is not there in this nature?
Why some people doesn’t want to sit in the nature’s lap?
Why one wants to end this nature?
Who is destroying this nature?
Why will it destroy?
Full of rebellion, I would die,
Or fight, or travel, or deny
That thou has aught to do with me.
O tame my heart;
It is thy highest art
To captivate strong holds to thee.
If thou shalt let this venom lurk,
And in suggestions fume and work,
My soul will turn to bubbles straight,
And thence by kind
Vanish into a wind,
Making thy workmanship deceit.
O smooth my rugged heart, and there
Engrave thy rev'rend law and fear;
Or make a new one, since the old
Is sapless grown,
And a much fitter stone
To hide my dust, than thee to hold.
As a fond mother, when the day is o'er,
Leads by the hand her little child to bed,
Half willing, half reluctant to be led,
And leave his broken playthings on the floor,
Still gazing at them through the open door,
Nor wholly reassured and comforted
By promises of others in their stead,
Which though more splendid, may not please him more;
So Nature deals with us, and takes away
Our playthings one by one, and by the hand
Leads us to rest so gently, that we go
Scarce knowing if we wish to go or stay,
Being too full of sleep to understand
How far the unknown transcends the what we know.
The bubbling brook doth leap when I come by,
Because my feet find measure with its call;
The birds know when the friend they love is nigh,
For I am known to them, both great and small.
The flower that on the lonely hillside grows
Expects me there when spring its bloom has given;
And many a tree and bush my wanderings knows,
And e'en the clouds and silent stars of heaven;
For he who with his Maker walks aright,
Shall be their lord as Adam was before;
His ear shall catch each sound with new delight,
Each object wear the dress that then it wore;
And he, as when erect in soul he stood,
Hear from his Father's lips that all is good
Nature is beautiful
nature is fun
love it or hate it
nature is something to love
nature is god's gift to us
Nature
Nature we love
wate and feed nature
Nature water's and feed's us
god gave us nature
we cant live with out it
nature makes us
i know nature
Nature is beautiful
Nature is about the earth
nature has flower; s and weed's
weed's or flower's nature is us
NATURE
The trees were angels this morning,
seeming to bend their variegated boughs
to bestow benediction upon my weary brow
as I walked out my front door,
and driving along the hilly, back road
I wanted to stop and merge forever
into the misty autumn landscape,
for that peace is all
I could ever hope to become.
Man thought he was civilizing,
When he was getting away from nature,
But nature has its way to remind,
How it can affect our future.
When man and nature lived together
There was nothing much to bother,
There occurred a complete harmony,
With all species existing as a family.
But soon man started moving away,
In his gusto of making a new way.
He made villages, towns and cities,
His progress paved the way to tragedies.
It started with hunting and cutting trees,
His next attack was fishes in seas,
Slowly it affected the delicate balance,
This was the starting of his nuisance.
His inventions affected the ozone layer,
The wild life also had its share,
Rains got scanty and pollution was everywhere,
The damage was getting beyond repair.
Species became extinct, forests bared,
Rivers were choked, but no one cared.
As minerals got depleted and there was petroleum lack,
Nature decided its time to fight back.
Carbon-di oxide increased and temperature rose,
Nature retaliated with floods and chaos.
Man threw products of natural hazards,
Nature turned lush forests to deserts.
Soon the fury of nature was seen in waves,
Tornados and Tsunamis gave no escape,
Volcanoes and storms, earthquakes and famines,
Nature used all to punish the scene.
Get up and see what you’ve done,
The home you damaged was your own one,
You also harmed the siblings living with you
But nature is a tough parent and you’ll get the due.
Those who don’t follow the rule of living together,
Have to forego the comfort and love of their Mother,
Nature created Dinosaurs, but now there are none,
For they had disobeyed- and now it seems your turn.
The sounds of nature tells us many things.
The sounds of nature are our teachers.
The sounds of nature are so soothing
Yet they can be terrifying.
How can we say what nature is?
What do we really know about nature?
So many questions we have asked.
So many have gone unanswered.
So what does the sound of nature means?
We shall never know.
Nature is beautiful
Nature is enticing
Nature is fun and exciting
We can only love it's
wonderful diversity
stunning imagery and
panoramic scenery
Nature is god's gift
which we must cherish and protect
But in the name of development
We demolish and destroy it
Nature is tolerant
upto a point
beyond which nature retaliates
with floods, hurricanes and tsunamis
If we can't live in harmony with nature
We will perish for sure.
NATURE
Nature is the beautiful one
nature is for everyone’s fun
love it or hate it
it gives everything to everyone
nature is god's gift to everyone
Nature makes us
nature feeds us
god gave us nature
we can’t live without it so save nature
Nature rarer uses yellow
Than another hue;
Saves she all of that for sunsets,--
Prodigal of blue,
Spending scarlet like a woman,
Yellow she affords
Only scantly and selectly,
Like a lover's words.
314
Nature—sometimes sears a Sapling—
Sometimes—scalps a Tree—
Her Green People recollect it
When they do not die—
Fainter Leaves—to Further Seasons—
Dumbly testify—
We—who have the Souls—
Die oftener—Not so vitally—
(for Rona, Jeremy, Sam & Grace)
All the lizards are asleep--
perched pagodas with tiny triangular tiles,
each milky lid a steamed-up window.
Inside, the heart repeats itself like a sleepy gong,
summoning nothing to nothing.
In winter time, the zoo reverts to metaphor,
God's poetry of boredom:
the cobra knits her Fair-Isle skin,
rattlers titter over the same joke.
All of them endlessly finish spaghetti.
The python runs down like a spring,
and time stops on some ancient Sabbath.
Pythagorean bees are shut inside the hive,
which hymns and hums like Sunday chapel--
drowsy thoughts in a wrinkled brain.
The fire's gone out--
crocodiles lie like wet beams,
cross-hatched by flames that no one can remember.
Grasshoppers shiver, chafe their limbs
and try to keep warm,
crouching on their marks perpetually.
The African cricket is trussed like a cold chicken:
the sneeze of movement returns it to the same position,
in the same body. There is no change.
The rumple-headed lion has nowhere to go
and snoozes in his grimy combinations.
A chaise lounge with missing castors,
the walrus is stuck forever on his rock.
Sleepily, the seals play crib,
scoring on their upper lips.
The chimps kill fleas and time,
sewing nothing to nothing
Five o'clock--perhaps.
Vultures in their shabby Sunday suits
fidget with broken umbrellas,
while the ape beats his breast
and yodels out repentance.
Their feet are an awful dream of bunions--
but the buffalo's brazil nut bugle-horns
can never sound reveille.
Nature, that washed her hands in milk,
And had forgot to dry them,
Instead of earth took snow and silk,
At love's request to try them,
If she a mistress could compose
To please love's fancy out of those.
Her eyes he would should be of light,
A violet breath, and lips of jelly;
Her hair not black, nor overbright,
And of the softest down her belly;
As for her inside he'd have it
Only of wantonness and wit.
At love's entreaty such a one
Nature made, but with her beauty
She hath framed a heart of stone;
So as Love, by ill destiny,
Must die for her whom nature gave him
Because her darling would not save him.
But time, which nature doth despise
And rudely gives her love the lie,
Makes hope a fool, and sorrow wise,
His hands do neither wash nor dry;
But being made of steel and rust,
Turns snow and silk and milk to dust.
The light, the belly, lips, and breath,
He dims, discolors, and destroys;
With those he feeds but fills not death,
Which sometimes were the food of joys.
Yea, time doth dull each lively wit,
And dries all wantonness with it.
Oh, cruel time, which takes in trust
Our youth, or joys, and all we have,
And pays us but with age and dust;
Who in the dark and silent grave
When we have wandered all our ways
Shuts up the story of our days.
Nature the gentlest mother is,
Impatient of no child,
The feeblest of the waywardest.
Her admonition mild
In forest and the hill
By traveller be heard,
Restraining rampant squirrel
Or too impetuous bird.
How fair her conversation
A summer afternoon,
Her household her assembly;
And when the sun go down,
Her voice among the aisles
Incite the timid prayer
Of the minutest cricket,
The most unworthy flower.
When all the children sleep,
She turns as long away
As will suffice tolight her lamps,
Then bending from the sky
With infinite affection
An infiniter care,
Her golden finger on her lip,
Wills silence everywhere.
Nature, the gentlest mother,
Impatient of no child,
The feeblest or the waywardest,
Her admonition mild
In forest and the hill
By traveller is heard,
Restraining rampant squirrel
Or too impetuous bird.
How fair her conversation,
A summer afternoon,--
Her household, her assembly;
And when the sun goes down
Her voice among the aisles
Incites the timid prayer
Of the minutest cricket,
The most unworthy flower.
When all the children sleep
She turns as long away
As will suffice to light her lamps;
Then, bending from the sky
With infinite affection
And infiniter care,
Her golden finger on her lip,
Wills silence everywhere.
At the bottom of my garden
There's a hedgehog and a frog
And a lot of creepy-crawlies
Living underneath a log,
There's a baby daddy long legs
And an easy-going snail
And a family of woodlice,
All are on my nature trail.
There are caterpillars waiting
For their time to come to fly,
There are worms turning the earth over
As ladybirds fly by,
Birds will visit, cats will visit
But they always chose their time
And I've even seen a fox visit
This wild garden of mine.
Squirrels come to nick my nuts
And busy bees come buzzing
And when the night time comes
Sometimes some dragonflies come humming,
My garden mice are very shy
And I've seen bats that growl
And in my garden I have seen
A very wise old owl.
My garden is a lively place
There's always something happening,
There's this constant search for food
And then there's all that flowering,
When you have a garden
You will never be alone
And I believe we all deserve
A garden of our own.
From God he's a backslider,
Of ways he loves the wider;
With wickedness a sider,
More venom than a spider.
In sin he's a considerer,
A make-bate and divider;
Blind reason is his guider,
The devil is his rider.
Oh, how silent is the nature,
It only looks and only hears,
The people's spirit in a rapture
Clings to a freedom -- fast and fierce.
This planet will forget offences
Of him who trades, of him who kills,
And, as in reminiscences,
Druids will teach from greenish hills.
And, as in olden times, the poets
Will lead men's souls up to heights,
Like Angel leads the dazzling comets
To a point, that is not in sight.
'O DREARY life,' we cry, ' O dreary life ! '
And still the generations of the birds
Sing through our sighing, and the flocks and herds
Serenely live while we are keeping strife
With Heaven's true purpose in us, as a knife
Against which we may struggle ! Ocean girds
Unslackened the dry land, savannah-swards
Unweary sweep, hills watch unworn, and rife
Meek leaves drop year]y from the forest-trees
To show, above, the unwasted stars that pass
In their old glory: O thou God of old,
Grant me some smaller grace than comes to these !--
But so much patience as a blade of grass
Grows by, contented through the heat and cold.
Traveling through space
Wandering atom attracted
Varied acceleration race
Escape angle detracted
Eternal orbit
Solar towing plane subtracted
Rotating solar furnace smit
Molten surface reacted
Energy absorbed
Heat and pressure smelts
Atomic structure re-orbed
Fused elemental melts
Sinking in surface
Nuclear fusion increases
Instability its purpose
Critical mass point ceases
Finished compaction
Complete and udder chaos
Fission reaction
Energy potential a loss
Upward pressure builds
Super thick liquid belches
Volcanic eruption yields
Swiftly escaping elements
Particles and energy radiants
Massive gravity squelches
Only emitting radiance
< br>
fission > fusion > fission > fusion.....the cycle continues.....divide (energy given off)          > compact (energy absorbed, new fuel made)          > divide > compact.....God's efficient recycling.....Einstein smiled at the idiots!
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun sun weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather weather
Mine are the night and morning,
The pits of air, the gulf of space,
The sportive sun, the gibbous moon,
The innumerable days.
I hid in the solar glory,
I am dumb in the pealing song,
I rest on the pitch of the torrent,
In slumber I am strong.
No numbers have counted my tallies,
No tribes my house can fill,
I sit by the shining Fount of Life,
And pour the deluge still;
And ever by delicate powers
Gathering along the centuries
From race on race the rarest flowers,
My wreath shall nothing miss.
And many a thousand summers
My apples ripened well,
And light from meliorating stars
With firmer glory fell.
I wrote the past in characters
Of rock and fire the scroll,
The building in the coral sea,
The planting of the coal.
And thefts from satellites and rings
And broken stars I drew,
And out of spent and aged things
I formed the world anew;
What time the gods kept carnival,
Tricked out in star and flower,
And in cramp elf and saurian forms
They swathed their too much power.
Time and Thought were my surveyors,
They laid their courses well,
They boiled the sea, and baked the layers
Or granite, marl, and shell.
But he, the man-child glorious,--
Where tarries he the while?
The rainbow shines his harbinger,
The sunset gleams his smile.
My boreal lights leap upward,
Forthright my planets roll,
And still the man-child is not born,
The summit of the whole.
Must time and tide forever run?
Will never my winds go sleep in the west?
Will never my wheels which whirl the sun
And satellites have rest?
Too much of donning and doffing,
Too slow the rainbow fades,
I weary of my robe of snow,
My leaves and my cascades;
I tire of globes and races,
Too long the game is played;
What without him is summer's pomp,
Or winter's frozen shade?
I travail in pain for him,
My creatures travail and wait;
His couriers come by squadrons,
He comes not to the gate.
Twice I have moulded an image,
And thrice outstretched my hand,
Made one of day, and one of night,
And one of the salt sea-sand.
One in a Judaean manger,
And one by Avon stream,
One over against the mouths of Nile,
And one in the Academe.
I moulded kings and saviours,
And bards o'er kings to rule;--
But fell the starry influence short,
The cup was never full.
Yet whirl the glowing wheels once more,
And mix the bowl again;
Seethe, fate! the ancient elements,
Heat, cold, wet, dry, and peace, and pain.
Let war and trade and creeds and song
Blend, ripen race on race,
The sunburnt world a man shall breed
Of all the zones, and countless days.
No ray is dimmed, no atom worn,
My oldest force is good as new,
And the fresh rose on yonder thorn
Gives back the bending heavens in dew.
Why challenge Mother Nature, man, in vain?
Accept her superiority and pow’r;
One can’t traverse with equal speed each lane;
Take blame for every flood, wind, drought and show’r!
When hot, the excess steam must be let off;
When cold, one needs to cover to gain heat;
When Nature’s in a furious mood, don’t scoff;
Find solutions better and don’t retreat.
When Nature sends a breeze, man loves her touch;
When Nature blows a wind fierce, men rant, rave;
Yet, Nature balances her acts so much;
From natural disasters, man ought to save.
Align with Nature: Love the way she works;
But cursing God brings man more Nature’s jerks!
Dr John Celes 9-6-2005
When Nature made her chief work, Stella's eyes,
In color black why wrapp'd she beams so bright?
Would she in beamy black, like painter wise,
Frame daintiest lustre, mix'd of shades and light?
Or did she else that sober hue devise,
In object best to knit and strength our sight,
Lest if no veil those brave gleams did disguise,
They sun-like should more dazzle than delight?
Or would she her miraculous power show,
That whereas black seems Beauty's contrary,
She even if black doth make all beauties flow?
Both so and thus, she minding Love shoud be
Placed ever there, gave him this mourning weed,
To honor all their deaths, who for her bleed.
In nature apt to like when I did see
Beauties, which were of many carats fine,
My boiling sprites did thither soon incline,
And, Love, I thought that I was full of thee:
But finding not those restless flames in me,
Which others said did make their souls to pine,
I thought those babes of some pin's hurt did whine,
By my love judging what love's pain might be.
But while I thus with this young lion played,
Mine eyes (shall I say curst or blest?) beheld
Stella; now she is nam'd, need more be said?
In her sight I a lesson new have spell'd,
I now hav learn'd Love right, and learn'd even so,
As who by being poisoned doth poison know.
O why should Nature niggardly restrain
That foreign nations relish not our tongue?
Else should my lines glide on the waves of Rhene
And crown the Pyrens with my living song.
But, bounded thus, to Scotland get you forth,
Thence take you wing unto the Orcades;
There let my verse get glory in the North,
Making my sighs to thaw the frozen seas;
And let the Bards within that Irish isle,
To whom my Muse with fiery wing shall pass,
Call back the stiff-neck'd rebels from exile,
And mollify the slaught'ring Gallowglass;
And when my flowing numbers they rehearse,
Let wolves and bears be charmed with my verse.
The Great Red Giant could no longer bear
The forces of fission held within its care
Collected fuels over such a great time
A load too heavy, and fusion too prime
So far beneath its plasmatic sea
The forces of mass built up by three
The critical forces accumulated too fast
And multiple fissions started to blast
The uncontrolled sum of the reactions compactions
Finally overcame their gravitational attraction
And then burst forth in a great cosmic cry
And gave birth to a new baby's sigh
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
When the sky cries for the sadness of the world:
Birds sing happily,
Flowers dance beautifully,
The soft wind kisses the flowers kindly,
And,
The sun makes magic colors in the sky wonderfully.
It’s the beauty of the nature.
All, thou gentle one, lies embraced in thy kingdom; the graybeard
Back to the days of his youth, childish and child-like, returns.
Ye green-rob'd Dryads, oft' at dusky Eve
By wondering Shepherds seen, to Forests brown,
To unfrequented Meads, and pathless Wilds,
Lead me from Gardens deckt with Art's vain Pomps.
Can gilt Alcoves, can Marble-mimic Gods,
Parterres embroider'd, Obelisks, and Urns
Of high Relief; can the long, spreading Lake,
Or Vista lessening to the Sight; can Stow
With all her Attic Fanes, such Raptures raise,
As the Thrush-haunted Copse, where lightly leaps
The fearful Fawn the rustling Leaves along,
And the brisk Squirrel sports from Bough to Bough,
While from an hollow Oak the busy Bees
Hum drowsy Lullabies? The Bards of old,
Fair Nature's Friends, sought such Retreats, to charm
Sweet Echo with their Songs; oft' too they met,
In Summer Evenings, near sequester'd Bow'rs,
Or Mountain-Nymph, or Muse, and eager learnt
The moral Strains she taught to mend Mankind.
As to a secret Grot Ægeria stole
With Patriot Numa, and in silent Night
Whisper'd him sacred Laws, he list'ning sat
Rapt with her virtuous Voice, old Tyber leant
Attentive on his Urn, and husht his Waves.
Rich in her weeping Country's Spoils Versailles
May boast a thousand Fountains, that can cast
The tortur'd Waters to the distant Heav'ns;
Yet let me choose some Pine-topt Precipice
Abrupt and shaggy, whence a foamy Stream,
Like Anio, tumbling roars; or some bleak Heath,
Where straggling stand the mournful Juniper,
Or Yew-tree scath'd; while in clear Prospect round,
From the Grove's Bosom Spires emerge, and Smoak
In bluish Wreaths ascends, ripe Harvests wave,
Herds low, and Straw-rooft Cotts appear, and Streams
Beneath the Sun-beams twinkle -- The shrill Lark,
That wakes the Wood-man to his early Task,
Or love-sick Philomel, whose luscious Lays
Sooth lone Night-wanderers, the moaning Dove
Pitied by listening Milkmaid, far excell
The deep-mouth'd Viol, the Soul-lulling Lute,
And Battle-breathing Trumpet. Artful Sounds!
That please not like the Choristers of Air,
When first they hail th'Approach of laughing May.
Creative Titian, can thy vivid Strokes,
Or thine, O graceful Raphael, dare to vie
With the rich Tints that paint the breathing Mead?
The thousand-colour'd Tulip, Violet's Bell
Snow-clad and meek, the Vermil-tinctur'd Rose,
And golden Crocus? -- Yet with these the Maid,
Phillis or Phoebe, at a Feast or Wake,
Her jetty Locks enamels; fairer she,
In Innocence and home-spun Vestments drest,
Than if coerulean Sapphires at her Ears
Shone pendant, or a precious Diamond-Cross
Heav'd gently on her panting Bosom white.
Yon' Shepherd idly stretcht on the rude Rock,
Listening to dashing Waves, and Sea-Mews Clang
High-hovering o'er his Head, who views beneath
The Dolphin dancing o'er the level Brine,
Feels more true Bliss than the proud Ammiral,
Amid his Vessels bright with burnish'd Gold
And silken Streamers, tho' his lordly Nod
Ten thousand War-worn Mariners revere.
And great Æneas gaz'd with more Delight
On the rough Mountain shagg'd with horrid Shades,
(Where Cloud-compelling Jove, as Fancy dream'd,
Descending shook his direful Ægis black)
Than if he enter'd the high Capitol
On golden Columns rear'd, a conquer'd World
Contributing to deck its stately Head:
More pleas'd he slept in poor Evander's Cott
On shaggy Skins, lull'd by sweet Nightingales,
Than if a Nero, in an Age refin'd,
Beneath a gorgeous Canopy had plac'd
His royal Guest, and bade his Minstrels sound
Soft slumb'rous Lydian Airs to sooth his Rest.
Happy the first of Men, ere yet confin'd
To smoaky Cities; who in sheltering Groves,
Warm Caves, and deep-sunk Vallies liv'd and lov'd,
By Cares unwounded; what the Sun and Showers,
And genial Earth untillag'd could produce,
They gather'd grateful, or the Acorn brown,
Or blushing Berry; by the liquid Lapse
Of murm'ring Waters call'd to slake their Thirst,
Or with fair Nymphs their Sun-brown Limbs to bathe;
With Nymphs who fondly clasp'd their fav'rite Youths,
Unaw'd by Shame, beneath the Beechen Shade,
Nor Wiles, nor artificial Coyness knew.
Then Doors and Walls were not; the melting Maid
Nor Frowns of Parents fear'd, nor Husband's Threats;
Nor had curs'd Gold their tender Hearts allur'd;
Then Beauty was not venal. Injur'd Love,
O whither, God of Raptures, art thou fled?
While Avarice waves his golden Wand around,
Abhorr'd Magician, and his costly Cup
Prepares with baneful Drugs, t'enchant the Souls
Of each low-thoughted Fair to wed for Gain.
What tho' unknown to those primæval Sires,
The well-arch'd Dome, peopled with breathing Forms
By fair Italia's skilful Hand, unknown
The shapely Column, and the crumbling Busts
Of awful Ancestors in long Descent?
Yet why should Man mistaken deem it nobler
To dwell in Palaces, and high-rooft Halls,
Than in God's Forests, Architect supreme!
Say, is the Persian Carpet, than the Field's
Or Meadow's Mantle gay, more richly wov'n';
Or softer to the Votaries of Ease,
Than bladed Grass, perfum'd with dew-dropt Flow'rs?
O Taste corrupt! that Luxury and Pomp
In specious Names of polish'd Manners veil'd,
Should proudly banish Nature's simple Charms.
Tho' the fierce North oft smote with Iron Whip
Their shiv'ring Limbs, tho' oft the bristly Boar
Or hungry Lion 'woke them with their Howls,
And scar'd them from their Moss-grown Caves to rove,
Houseless and cold in dark, tempestuous Nights;
Yet were not Myriads in embattled Fields
Swept off at once, nor had the raving Seas
O'erwhelm'd the foundering Bark, and helpless Crew;
In vain the glassy Ocean smil'd to tempt
The jolly Sailor, unsuspecting Harm,
For Commerce was unknown. Then Want and Pine
Sunk to the Grave their fainting Limbs; but Us
Excess and endless Riot doom to die.
They cropt unweetingly, the poisonous Herb
But wiser we spontaneously provide
Rare powerful Roots, to quench Life's chearful Lamp.
What are the Lays of artful Addison,
Coldly correct, to Shakespear's Warblings wild?
Whom on the winding Avon's willow'd Banks
Fair Fancy found, and bore the smiling Babe
To a close Cavern: (still the Shepherds shew
The sacred Place, whence with religious Awe
They hear, returning from the Field at Eve,
Strange Whisperings of sweet Music thro' the Air)
Here, as with Honey gather'd from the Rock,
She fed the little Prattler, and with Songs
Oft' sooth'd his wondering Ears, with deep Delight
On her soft Lap he sat, and caught the Sounds.
Oft' near some crowded City would I walk,
Listening the far-off Noises, rattling Carrs,
Loud Shouts of Joy, sad Shrieks of Sorrow, Knells
Full slowly tolling, Instruments of Trade,
Striking mine Ears with one deep-swelling Hum.
Or wandering near the Sea, attend the Sounds
Of hollow Winds, and ever-beating Waves.
Ev'n when wild Tempests swallow up the Plains,
And Boreas' Blasts, big Hail, and Rains combine
To shake the Groves and Mountains, would I sit,
Pensively musing on th'outragious Crimes
That wake Heav'n's Vengeance: at such solemn Hours,
Dæmons and Goblins thro' the dark Air shriek,
While Hecat with her black-brow'd Sisters nine,
Rides o'er the Earth, and scatters Woes and Deaths.
Then too, they say, in drear Ægyptian Wilds
The Lion and the Tiger prowl for Prey
With Roarings loud! the list'ning Traveller
Starts Fear-struck, while the hollow-echoing Vaults
Of Pyramids encrease the deathful Sounds.
But let me never fail in cloudless Nights,
When silent Cynthia in her silver Car
Thro' the blue Concave slides, when shine the Hills,
Twinkle the Streams, and Woods look tipt with Gold,
To seek some level Mead, and there invoke
Old Midnight's Sister Contemplation sage,
(Queen of the rugged Brow, and stern-fixt Eye)
To lift my Soul above this little Earth,
This Folly-fetter'd World; to purge my Ears,
That I may hear the rolling Planets Song,
And tuneful-turning Spheres: If this debarr'd,
The little Fayes that dance in neighbouring Dales,
Sipping the Night-dew, while they laugh and love,
Shall charm me with a‰rial Notes. -- As thus
I wander musing, lo, what awful Forms
Yonder appear! sharp-ey'd Philosophy
Clad in dun Robes, an Eagle on his Wrist,
First meets my Eye; next, Virgin Solitude
Serene, who blushes at each Gazer's Sight;
Then Wisdom's hoary Head, with Crutch in Hand,
Trembling, and bent with Age; last Virtue's self
Smiling, in White array'd, who with her leads
Fair Innocence, that prattles by her Side,
A naked Boy! -- Harrass'd with Fear I stop,
I gaze, when Virtue thus -- "Whoe'er thou art,
"Mortal, by whom I deign to be beheld,
"In these my Midnight-Walks; depart, and say
"That henceforth I and my immortal Train
"Forsake Britannia's Isle; who fondly stoops
"To Vice, her favourite Paramour." -- She spoke,
And as she turn'd, her round and rosy Neck,
Her flowing Train, and long, ambrosial Hair,
Breathing rich Odours, I enamour'd view.
O who will bear me then to Western Climes,
(Since Virtue leaves our wretched Land) to Shades
Yet unpolluted with Iberian Swords;
With simple Indian Swains, that I may hunt
The Boar and Tiger thro' Savannah's wild?
There fed on Dates and Herbs, would I despise
The far-fetch'd Cates of Luxury, and Hoards
Of narrow-hearted Avarice; nor heed
The distant Din of the tumultuous World.
So when rude Whirlwinds rouze the roaring Main,
Beneath fair Thetis sits, in coral Caves,
Serenely gay, nor sinking Sailors Cries
Disturb her sportive Nymphs, who round her form
The light fantastic Dance, or for her Hair
Weave rosy Crowns, or with according Lutes
Grace the soft Warbles of her honied Voice.
Is this a time to be cloudy and sad,
When our mother Nature laughs around;
When even the deep blue heavens look glad,
And gladness breathes from the blossoming ground?
There are notes of joy from the hang-bird and wren,
And the gossip of swallows through all the sky;
The ground-squirrel gaily chirps by his den,
And the wilding bee hums merrily by.
The clouds are at play in the azure space,
And their shadows at play on the bright green vale,
And here they stretch to the frolic chase,
And there they roll on the easy gale.
There's a dance of leaves in that aspen bower,
There's a titter of winds in that beechen tree,
There's a smile on the fruit, and a smile on the flower,
And a laugh from the brook that runs to the sea.
And look at the broad-faced sun, how he smiles
On the dewy earth that smiles in his ray,
On the leaping waters and gay young isles;
Ay, look, and he'll smile thy gloom away.
The golden gift that Nature did thee give
To fasten friends and feed them at thy will
With form and favour, taught me to believe
How thou art made to show her greatest skill,
Whose hidden virtues are not so unknown
But lively dooms might gather at the first:
Where beauty so her perfect seed hath sown
Of other graces follow needs there must.
Now certes, lady, since all this is true,
That from above thy gifts are thus elect,
Do not deface them then with fancies new,
Nor change of minds let not thy mind infect,
But mercy him, thy friend, that doth thee serve,
Who seeks alway thine honour to preserve.
I.
MAN, being the servant and interpreter of Nature, can do and understand so much and so much only as he has observed in fact or in thought of the course of nature: beyond this he neither knows anything nor can do anything.
II.
Neither the naked hand nor the understanding left to itself can effect much. It is by instruments and helps that the work is done, which are as much wanted for the understanding as for the hand. And as the instruments of the hand either give motion or guide it, so the instruments of the mind supply either suggestions for the understanding or cautions.
III.
Human knowledge and human power meet in one; for where the cause is not known the effect cannot be produced. Nature to be commanded must be obeyed; and that which in contemplation is as the cause is in operation as the rule.
IV.
Towards the effecting of works, all that man can do is to put together or put asunder natural bodies. The rest is done by nature working within.
V.
The study of nature with a view to works is engaged in by the mechanic, the mathematician, the physician, the alchemist, and the magician; but by all (as things now are) with slight endeavour and scanty success.
VI.
It would be an unsound fancy and self-contradictory to expect that things which have never yet been done can be done except by means which have never yet been tried.
VII.
The productions of the mind and hand seem very numerous in books and manufactures. But all this variety lies in an exquisite subtlety and derivations from a few things already known; not in the number of axioms.
VIII.
Moreover the works already known are due to chance and experiment rather than to sciences; for the sciences we now possess are merely systems for the nice ordering and setting forth of things already invented; not methods of invention or directions for new works.
IX.
The cause and root of nearly all evils in the sciences is this -- that while we falsely admire and extol the powers of the human mind we neglect to seek for its true helps.
X.
The subtlety of nature is greater many times over than the subtlety of the senses and understanding; so that all those specious meditations, speculations, and glosses in which men indulge are quite from the purpose, only there is no one by to observe it.
XI.
As the sciences which we now have do not help us in finding out new works, so neither does the logic which we now have help us in finding out new sciences.
XII.
The logic now in use serves rather to fix and give stability to the errors which have their foundation in commonly received notions than to help the search after truth. So it does more harm than good.
XIII.
The syllogism is not applied to the first principles of sciences, and is applied in vain to intermediate axioms; being no match for the subtlety of nature. It commands assent therefore to the proposition, but does not take hold of the thing.
XIV.
The syllogism consists of propositions, propositions consist of words, words are symbols of notions. Therefore if the notions themselves (which is the root of the matter) are confused and over-hastily abstracted from the facts, there can be no firmness in the superstructure. Our only hope therefore lies in a true induction.
XV.
There is no soundness in our notions whether logical or physical. Substance, Quality, Action, Passion, Essence itself, are not sound notions: much less are Heavy, Light, Dense, Rare, Moist, Dry, Generation, Corruption, Attraction, Repulsion, Element, Matter, Form, and the like; but all are fantastical and ill defined.
XVI.
Our notions of less general species, as Man, Dog, Dove, and of the immediate perceptions of the sense, as Hot, Cold, Black, White, do not materially mislead us; yet even these are sometimes confused by the flux and alteration of matter and the mixing of one thing with another. All the others which men have hitherto adopted are but wanderings, not being abstracted and formed from things by proper methods.
XVII.
Nor is there less of wilfulness and wandering in the construction of axioms than in the formations of notions; not excepting even those very principles which are obtained by common induction; but much more in the axioms and lower propositions educed by the syllogism.
XVIII.
The discoveries which have hitherto been made in the sciences are such as lie close to vulgar notions, scarcely beneath the surface. In order to penetrate into the inner and further recesses of nature, it is necessary that both notions and axioms be derived from things by a more sure and guarded way; and that a method of intellectual operation be introduced altogether better and more certain.
XIX.
There are and can be only two ways of searching into and discovering truth. The one flies from the senses and particulars to the most general axioms, and from these principles, the truth of which it takes for settled and immovable, proceeds to judgment and to the discovery of middle axioms. And this way is now in fashion. The other derives axioms from the senses and particulars, rising by a gradual and unbroken ascent, so that it arrives at the most general axioms last of all. This is the true way, but as yet untried.
XX.
The understanding left to itself takes the same course (namely, the former) which it takes in accordance with logical order. For the mind longs to spring up to positions of higher generality, that it may find rest there; and so after a little while wearies of experiment. But this evil is increased by logic, because of the order and solemnity of its disputations.
XXI.
The understanding left to itself, in a sober, patient, and grave mind, especially if it be not hindered by received doctrines, tries a little that other way, which is the right one, but with little progress; since the understanding, unless directed and assisted, is a thing unequal, and quite unfit to contend with the obscurity of things.
XXII.
Both ways set out from the senses and particulars, and rest in the highest generalities; but the difference between them is infinite. For the one just glances at experiment and particulars in passing, the other dwells duly and orderly among them. The one, again, begins at once by establishing certain abstract and useless generalities, the other rises by gradual steps to that which is prior and better known in the order of nature.
XXIII.
There is a great difference between the Idols of the human mind and the Ideas of the divine. That is to say, between certain empty dogmas, and the true signatures and marks set upon the works of creation as they are found in nature.
XXIV.
It cannot be that axioms established by argumentation should avail for the discovery of new works; since the subtlety of nature is greater many times over than the subtlety of argument. But axioms duly and orderly formed from particulars easily discover the way to new particulars, and thus render sciences active.
XXV.
The axioms now in use, having been suggested by a scanty and manipular experience and a few particulars of most general occurrence, are made for the most part just large enough to fit and take these in: and therefore it is no wonder if they do not lead to new particulars. And if some opposite instance, not observed or not known before, chance to come in the way, the axiom is rescued and preserved by some frivolous distinction; whereas the truer course would be to correct the axiom itself.
XXVI.
The conclusions of human reason as ordinarily applied in matter of nature, I call for the sake of distinction Anticipations of Nature (as a thing rash or premature). That reason which is elicited from facts by a just and methodical process, I call Interpretation of Nature.
XXVII.
Anticipations are a ground sufficiently firm for consent; for even if men went mad all after the same fashion, they might agree one with another well enough.
XXVIII.
For the winning of assent, indeed, anticipations are far more powerful than interpretations; because being collected from a few instances, and those for the most part of familiar occurrence, they straightway touch the understanding and fill the imagination; whereas interpretations on the other hand, being gathered here and there from very various and widely dispersed facts, cannot suddenly strike the understanding; and therefore they must needs, in respect of the opinions of the time, seem harsh and out of tune; much as the mysteries of faith do.
XXIX.
In sciences founded on opinions and dogmas, the use of anticipations and logic is good; for in them the object is to command assent to the proposition, not to master the thing.
XXX.
Though all the wits of all the ages should meet together and combine and transmit their labours, yet will no great progress ever be made in science by means of anticipations; because radical errors in the first concoction of the mind are not to be cured by the excellence of functions and remedies subsequent.
XXXI.
It is idle to expect any great advancement in science from the superinducing and engrafting of new things upon old. We must begin anew from the very foundations, unless we would revolve for ever in a circle with mean and contemptible progress.
XXXII.
The honour of the ancient authors, and indeed of all, remains untouched; since the comparison I challenge is not of wits or faculties, but of ways and methods, and the part I take upon myself is not that of a judge, but of a guide.
XXXIII.
This must be plainly avowed: no judgment can be rightly formed either of my method or of the discoveries to which it leads, by means of anticipations (that is to say, of the reasoning which is now in use); since I cannot be called on to abide by the sentence of a tribunal which is itself on its trial.
XXXIV.
Even to deliver and explain what I bring forward is no easy matter; for things in themselves new will yet be apprehended with reference to what is old.
XXXV.
It was said by Borgia of the expedition of the French into Italy, that they came with chalk in their hands to mark out their lodgings, not with arms to force their way in. I in like manner would have my doctrine enter quietly into the minds that are fit and capable of receiving it; for confutations cannot be employed, when the difference is upon first principles and very notions and even upon forms of demonstration.
XXXVI.
One method of delivery alone remains to us; which is simply this: we must lead men to the particulars themselves, and their series and order; while men on their side must force themselves for awhile to lay their notions by and begin to familiarise themselves with facts.
XXXVII.
The doctrine of those who have denied that certainty could be attained at all, has some agreement with my way of proceeding at the first setting out; but they end in being infinitely separated and opposed. For the holders of that doctrine assert simply that nothing can be known; I also assert that not much can be known in nature by the way which is now in use. But then they go on to destroy the authority of the senses and understanding; whereas I proceed to devise and supply helps for the same.
XXXVIII.
The idols and false notions which are now in possession of the human understanding, and have taken deep root therein, not only so beset men's minds that truth can hardly find entrance, but even after entrance obtained, they will again in the very instauration of the sciences meet and trouble us, unless men being forewarned of the danger fortify themselves as far as may be against their assaults.
XXXIX.
There are four classes of Idols which beset men's minds. To these for distinction's sake I have assigned names, -- calling the first class Idols of the Tribe; the second, Idols of the Cave; the third, Idols of the Market-place; the fourth, Idols of the Theatre.
XL.
The formation of ideas and axioms by true induction is no doubt the proper remedy to be applied for the keeping off and clearing away of idols. To point them out, however, is of great use; for the doctrine of Idols is to the Interpretation of Nature what the doctrine of the refutation of Sophisms is to common Logic.
XLI.
The Idols of the Tribe have their foundation in human nature itself, and in the tribe or race of men. For it is a false assertion that the sense of man is the measure of things. On the contrary, all perceptions as well of the sense as of the mind are according to the measure of the individual and not according to the measure of the universe. And the human understanding is like a false mirror, which, receiving rays irregularly, distorts and discolours the nature of things by mingling its own nature with it.
XLII.
The Idols of the Cave are the idols of the individual man. For every one (besides the errors common to human nature in general) has a cave or den of his own, which refracts and discolours the light of nature; owing either to his own proper and peculiar nature; or to his education and conversation with others; or to the reading of books, and the authority of those whom he esteems and admires; or to the differences of impressions, accordingly as they take place in a mind preoccupied and predisposed or in a mind indifferent and settled; or the like. So that the spirit of man (according as it is meted out to different individuals) is in fact a thing variable and full of perturbation, and governed as it were by chance. Whence it was well observed by Heraclitus that men look for sciences in their own lesser worlds, and not in the greater or common world.
XLIII.
There are also Idols formed by the intercourse and association of men with each other, which I call Idols of the Market-place, on account of the commerce and consort of men there. For it is by discourse that men associate; and words are imposed according to the apprehension of the vulgar. And therefore the ill and unfit choice of words wonderfully obstructs the understanding. Nor do the definitions or explanations wherewith in some things learned men are wont to guard and defend themselves, by any means set the matter right. But words plainly force and overrule the understanding, and throw all into confusion, and lead men away into numberless empty controversies and idle fancies.
XLIV.
Lastly, there are Idols which have immigrated into men's minds from the various dogmas of philosophies, and also from wrong laws of demonstration. These I call Idols of the Theatre; because in my judgment all the received systems are but so many stage-plays, representing worlds of their own creation after an unreal and scenic fashion. Nor is it only of the systems now in vogue, or only of the ancient sects and philosophies, that I speak; for many more plays of the same kind may yet be composed and in like artificial manner set forth; seeing that errors the most widely different have nevertheless causes for the most part alike. Neither again do I mean this only of entire systems, but also of many principles and axioms in science, which by tradition, credulity, and negligence have come to be received.
But of these several kinds of Idols I must speak more largely and exactly, that the understanding may be duly cautioned.
XLV.
The human understanding is of its own nature prone to suppose the existence of more order and regularity in the world than it finds. And though there be many things in nature which are singular and unmatched, yet it devises for them parallels and conjugates and relatives which do not exist. Hence the fiction that all celestial bodies move in perfect circles; spirals and dragons being (except in name) utterly rejected. Hence too the element of Fire with its orb is brought in, to make up the square with the other three which the sense perceives. Hence also the ratio of density of the so-called elements is arbitrarily fixed at ten to one. And so on of other dreams. And these fancies affect not dogmas only, but simple notions also.
XLVI.
The human understanding when it has once adopted an opinion (either as being the received opinion or as being agreeable to itself) draws all things else to support and agree with it. And though there be a greater number and weight of instances to be found on the other side, yet these it either neglects and despises, or else by some distinction sets aside and rejects; in order that by this great and pernicious predetermination the authority of its former conclusions may remain inviolate. And therefore it was a good answer that was made by one who when they showed him hanging in a temple a picture of those who had paid their vows as having escaped shipwreck, and would have him say whether he did not now acknowledge the power of the gods, -- "Aye," asked he again, "but where are they painted that were drowned after their vows?" And such is the way of all superstition, whether in astrology, dreams, omens, divine judgments, or the like; wherein men, having a delight in such vanities, mark the events where they are fulfilled, but where they fail, though this happen much oftener, neglect and pass them by. But with far more subtlety does this mischief insinuate itself into philosophy and the sciences; in which the first conclusion colours and brings into conformity with itself all that come after, though far sounder and better. Besides, independently of that delight and vanity which I have described, it is the peculiar and perpetual error of the human intellect to be more moved and excited by affirmatives than by negatives; whereas it ought properly to hold itself indifferently disposed towards both alike. Indeed in the establishment of any true axiom, the negative instance is the more forcible of the two.
XLVII.
The human understanding is moved by those things most which strike and enter the mind simultaneously and suddenly, and so fill the imagination; and then it feigns and supposes all other things to be somehow, though it cannot see how, similar to those few things by which it is surrounded. But for that going to and fro to remote and heterogeneous instances, by which axioms are tried as in the fire, the intellect is altogether slow and unfit, unless it be forced thereto by severe laws and overruling authority.
XLVIII.
The human understanding is unquiet; it cannot stop or rest, and still presses onward, but in vain. Therefore it is that we cannot conceive of any end or limit to the world; but always as of necessity it occurs to us that there is something beyond. Neither again can it be conceived how eternity has flowed down to the present day; for that distinction which is commonly received of infinity in time past and in time to come can by no means hold; for it would thence follow that one infinity is greater than another, and that infinity is wasting away and tending to become finite. The like subtlety arises touching the infinite divisibility of lines, from the same inability of thought to stop. But this inability interferes more mischievously in the discovery of causes: for although the most general principles in nature ought to be held merely positive, as they are discovered, and cannot with truth be referred to a cause; nevertheless the human understanding being unable to rest still seeks something prior in the order of nature. And then it is that in struggling towards that which is further off it falls back upon that which is more nigh at hand; namely, on final causes: which have relation clearly to the nature of man rather than to the nature of the universe; and from this source have strangely defiled philosophy. But he is no less an unskilled and shallow philosopher who seeks causes of that which is most general, than he who in things subordinate and subaltern omits to do so.
XLIX.
The human understanding is no dry light, but receives an infusion from the will and affections; whence proceed sciences which may be called "sciences as one would." For what a man had rather were true he more readily believes. Therefore he rejects difficult things from impatience of research; sober things, because they narrow hope; the deeper things of nature, from superstition; the light of experience, from arrogance and pride, lest his mind should seem to be occupied with things mean and transitory; things not commonly believed, out of deference to the opinion of the vulgar. Numberless in short are the ways, and sometimes imperceptible, in which the affections colour and infect the understanding.
L.
But by far the greatest hindrance and aberration of the human understanding proceeds from the dullness, incompetency, and deceptions of the senses; in that things which strike the sense outweigh things which do not immediately strike it, though they be more important. Hence it is that speculation commonly ceases where sight ceases; insomuch that of things invisible there is little or no observation. Hence all the working of the spirits inclosed in tangible bodies lies hid and unobserved of men. So also all the more subtle changes of form in the parts of coarser substances (which they commonly call alteration, though it is in truth local motion through exceedingly small spaces) is in like manner unobserved. And yet unless these two things just mentioned be searched out and brought to light, nothing great can be achieved in nature, as far as the production of works is concerned. So again the essential nature of our common air, and of all bodies less dense than air (which are very many), is almost unknown. For the sense by itself is a thing infirm and erring; neither can instruments for enlarging or sharpening the senses do much; but all the truer kind of interpretation of nature is effected by instances and experiments fit and apposite; wherein the sense decides touching the experiment only, and the experiment touching the point in nature and the thing itself.
LI.
The human understanding is of its own nature prone to abstractions and gives a substance and reality to things which are fleeting. But to resolve nature into abstractions is less to our purpose than to dissect her into parts; as did the school of Democritus, which went further into nature than the rest. Matter rather than forms should be the object of our attention, its configurations and changes of configuration, and simple action, and law of action or motion; for forms are figments of the human mind, unless you will call those laws of action forms.
LII.
Such then are the idols which I call Idols of the Tribe; and which take their rise either from the homogeneity of the substance of the human spirit, or from its preoccupation, or from its narrowness, or from its restless motion, or from an infusion of the affections, or from the incompetency of the senses, or from the mode of impression.
LIII.
The Idols of the Cave take their rise in the peculiar constitution, mental or bodily, of each individual; and also in education, habit, and accident. Of this kind there is a great number and variety; but I will instance those the pointing out of which contains the most important caution, and which have most effect in disturbing the clearness of the understanding.
LIV.
Men become attached to certain particular sciences and speculations, either because they fancy themselves the authors and inventors thereof, or because they have bestowed the greatest pains upon them and become most habituated to them. But men of this kind, if they betake themselves to philosophy and contemplations of a general character, distort and colour them in obedience to their former fancies; a thing especially to be noticed in Aristotle, who made his natural philosophy a mere bond-servant to his logic, thereby rendering it contentious and well nigh useless. The race of chemists again out of a few experiments of the furnace have built up a fantastic philosophy, framed with reference to a few things; and Gilbert also, after he had employed himself most laboriously in the study and observation of the loadstone, proceeded at once to construct an entire system in accordance with his favourite subject.
LV.
There is one principal and as it were radical distinction between different minds, in respect of philosophy and the sciences; which is this: that some minds are stronger and apter to mark the differences of things, others to mark their resemblances. The steady and acute mind can fix its contemplations and dwell and fasten on the subtlest distinctions: the lofty and discursive mind recognises and puts together the finest and most general resemblances. Both kinds however easily err in excess, by catching the one at gradations the other at shadows.
LVI.
There are found some minds given to an extreme admiration of antiquity, others to an extreme love and appetite for novelty: but few so duly tempered that they can hold the mean, neither carping at what has been well laid down by the ancients, nor despising what is well introduced by the moderns. This however turns to the great injury of the sciences and philosophy; since these affectations of antiquity and novelty are the humours of partisans rather than judgments; and truth is to be sought for not in the felicity of any age, which is an unstable thing, but in the light of nature and experience, which is eternal. These factions therefore must be abjured, and care must be taken that the intellect be not hurried by them into assent.
LVII.
Contemplations of nature and of bodies in their simple form break up and distract the understanding, while contemplations of nature and bodies in their composition and configuration overpower and dissolve the understanding: a distinction well seen in the school of Leucippus and Democritus as compared with the other philosophies. For that school is so busied with the particles that it hardly attends to the structure; while the others are so lost in admiration of the structure that they do not penetrate to the simplicity of nature. These kinds of contemplation should therefore be alternated and taken by turns; that so the understanding may be rendered at once penetrating and comprehensive, and the inconveniences above mentioned, with the idols which proceed from them, may be avoided.
LVIII.
Let such then be our provision and contemplative prudence for keeping off and dislodging the Idols of the Cave, which grow for the most part either out of the predominance of a favourite subject, or out of an excessive tendency to compare or to distinguish, or out of partiality for particular ages, or out of the largeness or minuteness of the objects contemplated. And generally let every student of nature take this as a rule, -- that whatever his mind seizes and dwells upon with peculiar satisfaction is to be held in suspicion, and that so much the more care is to be taken in dealing with such questions to keep the understanding even and clear.
LIX.
But the Idols of the Market-place are the most troublesome of all: idols which have crept into the understanding through the alliances of words and names. For men believe that their reason governs words; but it is also true that words react on the understanding; and this it is that has rendered philosophy and the sciences sophistical and inactive. Now words, being commonly framed and applied according to the capacity of the vulgar, follow those lines of division which are most obvious to the vulgar understanding. And whenever an understanding of greater acuteness or a more diligent observation would alter those lines to suit the true divisions of nature, words stand in the way and resist the change. Whence it comes to pass that the high and formal discussions of learned men end oftentimes in disputes about words and names; with which (according to the use and wisdom of the mathematicians) it would be more prudent to begin, and so by means of definitions reduce them to order. Yet even definitions cannot cure this evil in dealing with natural and material things; since the definitions themselves consist of words, and those words beget others: so that it is necessary to recur to individual instances, and those in due series and order; as I shall say presently when I come to the method and scheme for the formation of notions and axioms.
LX.
The idols imposed by words on the understanding are of two kinds. They are either names of things which do not exist (for as there are things left unnamed through lack of observation, so likewise are there names which result from fantastic suppositions and to which nothing in reality corresponds), or they are names of things which exist, but yet confused and ill-defined, and hastily and irregularly derived from realities. Of the former kind are Fortune, the Prime Mover, Planetary Orbits, Element of Fire, and like fictions which owe their origin to false and idle theories. And this class of idols is more easily expelled, because to get rid of them it is only necessary that all theories should be steadily rejected and dismissed as obsolete.
But the other class, which springs out of a faulty and unskilful abstraction, is intricate and deeply rooted. Let us take for example such a word as humid; and see how far the several things which the word is used to signify agree with each other; and we shall find the word humid to be nothing else than a mark loosely and confusedly applied to denote a variety of actions which will not bear to be reduced to any constant meaning. For it both signifies that which easily spreads itself round any other body; and that which in itself is indeterminate and cannot solidise; and that which readily yields in every direction; and that which easily divides and scatters itself; and that which easily unites and collects itself; and that which readily flows and is put in motion; and that which readily clings to another body and wets it; and that which is easily reduced to a liquid, or being solid easily melts. Accordingly when you come to apply the word, -- if you take it in one sense, flame is humid; if in another, air is not humid; if in another, fine dust is humid; if in another, glass is humid. So that it is easy to see that the notion is taken by abstraction only from water and common and ordinary liquids, without any due verification.
There are however in words certain degrees of distortion and error. One of the least faulty kinds is that of names of substances, especially of lowest species and well-deduced (for the notion of chalk and of mud is good, of earth bad); a more faulty kind is that of actions, as to generate, to corrupt, to alter; the most faulty is of qualities (except such as are the immediate objects of the sense) as heavy, light, rare, dense, and the like. Yet in all these cases some notions are of necessity a little better than others, in proportion to the greater variety of subjects that fall within the range of the human sense.
LXI.
But the Idols of the Theatre are not innate, nor do they steal into the understanding secretly, but are plainly impressed and received into the mind from the play-books of philosophical systems and the perverted rules of demonstration. To attempt refutations in this case would be merely inconsistent with what I have already said: for since we agree neither upon principles nor upon demonstrations there is no place for argument. And this is so far well, inasmuch as it leaves the honour of the ancients untouched. For they are no wise disparaged the question between them and me being only as to the way. For as the saying is, the lame man who keeps the right road outstrips the runner who takes a wrong one. Nay it is obvious that when a man runs the wrong way, the more active and swift he is the further he will go astray.
But the course I propose for the discovery of sciences is such as leaves but little to the acuteness and strength of wits, but places all wits and understandings nearly on a level. For as in the drawing of a straight line or a perfect circle, much depends on the steadiness and practice of the hand, if it be done by aim of hand only, but if with the aid of rule or compass, little or nothing; so is it exactly with my plan. But though particular confutations would be of no avail, yet touching the sects and general divisions of such systems I must say something; something also touching the external signs which show that they are unsound; and finally something touching the causes of such great infelicity and of such lasting and general agreement in error; that so the access to truth may be made less difficult, and the human understanding may the more willingly submit to its purgation and dismiss its idols.
LXII.
Idols of the Theatre, or of Systems, are many, and there can be and perhaps will be yet many more. For were it not that new for many ages men's minds have been busied with religion and theology; and were it not that civil governments, especially monarchies, have been averse to such novelties, even in matters speculative; so that men labour therein to the peril and harming of their fortunes, -- not only unrewarded, but exposed also to contempt and envy; doubtless there would have arisen many other philosophical sects like to those which in great variety flourished once among the Greeks. For as on the phenomena of the heavens many hypotheses may be constructed, so likewise (and more also) many various dogmas may be set up and established on the phenomena of philosophy. And in the plays of this philosophical theatre you may observe the same thing which is found in the theatre of the poets, that stories invented for the stage are more compact and elegant, and more as one would wish them to be, than true stories out of history.
In general however there is taken for the material of philosophy either a great deal out of a few things, or a very little out of many things; so that on both sides philosophy is based on too narrow a foundation of experiment and natural history, and decides on the authority of too few cases. For the Rational School of philosophers snatches from experience a variety of common instances, neither duly ascertained nor diligently examined and weighed, and leaves all the rest to meditation and agitation of wit.
There is also another class of philosophers, who having bestowed much diligent and careful labour on a few experiments, have thence made bold to educe and construct systems; wresting all other facts in a strange fashion to conformity therewith.
And there is yet a third class, consisting of those who out of faith and veneration mix their philosophy with theology and traditions; among whom the vanity of some has gone so far aside as to seek the origin of sciences among spirits and genii. So that this parent stock of errors -- this false philosophy -- is of three kinds; the Sophistical, the Empirical, and the Superstitious.
LXIII.
The most conspicuous example of the first class was Aristotle, who corrupted natural philosophy by his logic: fashioning the world out of categories; assigning to the human soul, the noblest of substances, a genus from words of the second intention; doing the business of density and rarity (which is to make bodies of greater or less dimensions, that is, occupy greater or less spaces), by the frigid distinction of act and power; asserting that single bodies have each a single and proper motion, and that if they participate in any other, then this results from an external cause; and imposing countless other arbitrary restrictions on the nature of things; being always more solicitous to provide an answer to the question and affirm something positive in words, than about the inner truth of things; a failing best shown when his philosophy is compared with other systems of note among the Greeks. For the Homoeomera of Anaxagoras; the Atoms of Leucippus and Democritus; the Heaven and Earth of Parmenides; the Strife and Friendship of Empedocles; Heraclitus's doctrine how bodies are resolved into the indifferent nature of fire, and remoulded into solids; have all of them some taste of the natural philosopher, -- some savour of the nature of things, and experience, and bodies; whereas in the physics of Aristotle you hear hardly anything but the words of logic; which in his metaphysics also, under a more imposing name, and more forsooth as a realist than a nominalist, he has handled over again. Nor let any weight be given to the fact, that in his books on animals and his problems, and other of his treatises, there is frequent dealing with experiments. For he had come to his conclusion before; he did not consult experience, as he should have done, in order to the framing of his decisions and axioms; but having first determined the question according to his will, he then resorts to experience, and bending her into conformity with his placets leads her about like a captive in a procession; so that even on this count he is more guilty than his modern followers, the schoolmen, who have abandoned experience altogether.
LXIV.
But the Empirical school of philosophy gives birth to dogmas more deformed and monstrous than the Sophistical or Rational school. For it has its foundations not in the light of common notions, (which though it be a faint and superficial light, is yet in a manner universal, and has reference to many things,) but in the narrowness and darkness of a few experiments. To those therefore who are daily busied with these experiments, and have infected their imagination with them, such a philosophy seems probable and all but certain; to all men else incredible and vain. Of this there is a notable instance in the alchemists and their dogmas; though it is hardly to be found elsewhere in these times, except perhaps in the philosophy of Gilbert. Nevertheless with regard to philosophies of this kind there is one caution not to be omitted; for I foresee that if ever men are roused by my admonitions to betake themselves seriously to experiment and bid farewell to sophistical doctrines, then indeed through the premature hurry of the understanding to leap or fly to universals and principles of things, great danger may be apprehended from philosophies of this kind; against which evil we ought even now to prepare.
LXV.
But the corruption of philosophy by superstition and an admixture of theology is far more widely spread, and does the greatest harm, whether to entire systems or to their parts. For the human understanding is obnoxious to the influence of the imagination no less than to the influence of common notions. For the contentious and sophistical kind of philosophy ensnares the understanding; but this kind, being fanciful and timid and half poetical, misleads it more by flattery. For there is in man an ambition of the understanding, no less than of the will, especially in high and lofty spirits.
Of this kind we have among the Greeks a striking example in Pythagoras, though he united with it a coarser and more cumbrous superstition; another in Plato and his school, more dangerous and subtle. It shows itself likewise in parts of other philosophies, in the introduction of abstract forms and final causes and first causes, with the omission in most cases of causes intermediate, and the like. Upon this point the greatest caution should be used. For nothing is so mischievous as the apotheosis of error; and it is a very plague of the understanding for vanity to become the object of veneration. Yet in this vanity some of the moderns have with extreme levity indulged so far as to attempt to found a system of natural philosophy on the first chapter of Genesis, on the book of Job, and other parts of the sacred writings; seeking for the dead among the living: which also makes the inhibition and repression of it the more important, because from this unwholesome mixture of things human and divine there arises not only a fantastic philosophy but also an heretical religion. Very meet it is therefore that we be sober-minded, and give to faith that only which is faith's.
LXVI.
So much then for the mischievous authorities of systems, which are founded either on common notions, or on a few experiments, or on superstition. It remains to speak of the faulty subject-matter of contemplations, especially in natural philosophy. Now the human understanding is infected by the sight of what takes place in the mechanical arts, in which the alteration of bodies proceeds chiefly by composition or separation, and so imagines that something similar goes on in the universal nature of things. From this source has flowed the fiction of elements, and of their concourse for the formation of natural bodies. Again, when man contemplates nature working freely, he meets with different species of things, of animals, of plants, of minerals; whence he readily passes into the opinion that there are in nature certain primary forms which nature intends to educe, and that the remaining variety proceeds from hindrances and aberrations of nature in the fulfilment of her work, or from the collision of different species and the transplanting of one into another. To the first of these speculations we owe our primary qualities of the elements; to the other our occult properties and specific virtues; and both of them belong to those empty compendia of thought wherein the mind rests, and whereby it is diverted from more solid pursuits. It is to better purpose that the physicians bestow their labour on the secondary qualities of matter, and the operations of attraction, repulsion, attenuation, conspissation, dilatation, astriction, dissipation, maturation, and the like; and were it not that by those two compendia which I have mentioned (elementary qualities, to wit, and specific virtues) they corrupted their correct observations in these other matters, -- either reducing them to first qualities and their subtle and incommensurable mixtures, or not following them out with greater and more diligent observation to third and fourth qualities, but breaking off the scrutiny prematurely, -- they had made much greater progress. Nor are powers of this kind (I do not say the same, but similar) to be sought for only in the medicines of the human body, but also in the changes of all other bodies.
But it is a far greater evil that they make the quiescent principles, wherefrom, and not the moving principles, whereby, things are produced, the object of their contemplation and inquiry. For the former tend to discourse, the latter to works. Nor is there any value in those vulgar distinctions of motion which are observed in the received system of natural philosophy, as generation, corruption, augmentation, diminution, alteration, and local motion. What they mean no doubt is this: -- if a body, in other respects not changed, be moved from its place, this is local motion; if without change of place or essence, it be changed in quality, this is alteration; if by reason of the change the mass and quantity of the body do not remain the same, this is augmentation or diminution; if they be changed to such a degree that they change their very essence and substance and turn to something else, this is generation and corruption. But all this is merely popular, and does not at all go deep into nature; for these are only measures and limits, not kinds of motion. What they intimate is how far, not by what means, or from what source. For they do not suggest anything with regard either to the desires of bodies or to the development of their parts: it is only when that motion presents the thing grossly and palpably to the sense as different from what it was, that they begin to mark the division. Even when they wish to suggest something with regard to the causes of motion, and to establish a division with reference to them, they introduce with the greatest negligence a distinction between motion natural and violent; a distinction which is itself drawn entirely from a vulgar notion, since all violent motion is also in fact natural; the external efficient simply setting nature working otherwise than it was before. But if, leaving all this, any one shall observe (for instance) that there is in bodies a desire of mutual contact, so as not to suffer the unity of nature to be quite separated or broken and a vacuum thus made; or if any one say that there is in bodies a desire of resuming their natural dimensions or tension, so that if compressed within or extended beyond them, they immediately strive to recover themselves, and fall back to their old volume and extent; or if any one say that there is in bodies a desire of congregating towards masses of kindred nature, -- of dense bodies, for instance, towards the globe of the earth, of thin and rare bodies towards the compass of the sky; all these and the like are truly physical kinds of motion; -- but those others are entirely logical and scholastic, as is abundantly manifest from this comparison.
Nor again is it a less evil, that in their philosophies and contemplations their labour is spent in investigating and handling the first principles of things and the highest generalities of nature; whereas utility and the means of working result entirely from things intermediate. Hence it is that men cease not from abstracting nature till they come to potential and uninformed matter, nor on the other hand from dissecting nature till they reach the atom; things which, even if true, can do but little for the welfare of mankind.
LXVII.
A caution must also be given to the understanding against the intemperance which systems of philosophy manifest in giving or withholding assent; because intemperance of this kind seems to establish Idols and in some sort to perpetuate them, leaving no way open to reach and dislodge them.
This excess is of two kinds: the first being manifest in those who are ready in deciding, and render sciences dogmatic and magisterial; the other in those who deny that we can know anything, and so introduce a wandering kind of inquiry that leads to nothing; of which kinds the former subdues, the latter weakens the understanding. For the philosophy of Aristotle, after having by hostile confutations destroyed all the rest (as the Ottomans serve their brothers), has laid down the law on all points; which done, he proceeds himself to raise new questions of his own suggestion, and dispose of them likewise; so that nothing may remain that is not certain and decided: a practice which holds and is in use among his successors.
The school of Plato, on the other hand, introduced Acatalepsia, at first in jest and irony, and in disdain of the older sophists, Protagoras, Hippias, and the rest, who were of nothing else so much ashamed as of seeming to doubt about anything. But the New Academy made a dogma of it, and held it as a tenet. And though their's is a fairer seeming way than arbitrary decisions; since they say that they by no means destroy all investigation, like Pyrrho and his Refrainers, but allow of some things to be followed as probable, though of none to be maintained as true; yet still when the human mind has once despaired of finding truth, its interest in all things grows fainter; and the result is that men turn aside to pleasant disputations and discourses and roam as it were from object to object, rather than keep on a course of severe inquisition. But, as I said at the beginning and am ever urging, the human senses and understanding, weak as they are, are not to be deprived of their authority, but to be supplied with helps.
LXVIII.
So much concerning the several classes of Idols, and their equipage: all of which must be renounced and put away with a fixed and solemn determination, and the understanding thoroughly freed and cleansed; the entrance into the kingdom of man, founded on the sciences, being not much other than the entrance into the kingdom of heaven, whereinto none may enter except as a little child.
The bird born in an aviary and raised in captivity
Can never live in Nature's World amongst the wild and free
Even the birds of it's own species will peck it till it die
So never allow your feathered pet the freedom of the sky.
I am naive of the laws of Mother Nature and naive of Nature's way
And for interfering with Nature there is some price to pay
The bird born in captivity in a cage must remain
Why even it's own kind in the wilds would kill it is beyond me to explain
Humans try to manipulate Nature and Nature's creatures control
But Mother Nature far greater than Human kind her's is an eternal soul
For we are like Nature's Seasons we come to life and go
Yet of our  Earth Mother who feeds us so little we seem to know.
The bird born in captivity in a cage condemned to stay
For if released the other birds will kill it since this is Nature's way
And Mother Nature herself as old as father time
She claims the young and she claims the old and those still in their prime.
How many times we say or do
Something that we thought was true
And then it made us sad;
A hurtful word, a shameful look
I've done enough to write a book -
I doubt that it would sell;
We stumble on in ignorance
Until in time we find by chance
The answers that we seek,
For there are lessons to be learned
All thoughtless deeds will be returned -
It's one of nature's laws;
That's how we grow in mind and soul,
Each incarnation sets the goal.............
It's the nature of things.
(I) PROMETHEUS 1-
IT was the south : mid-everything,
-
Mid-land, mid-summer, noon ;
-
And deep within a limpid spring
-
The mirrored sun of June.
-
Splendour in freshness ! Ah, who stole
-
This sun, this fire, from heaven?
-
He holds it shining in his soul,
-
Prometheus the forgiven.
(II) THETIS2-
In her bright title poets dare
-
What the wild eye of fancy sees --
-
Similitude -- the clear, the fair
-
Light mystery of images.
-
Round the blue sea I love the best
-
The argent foam played, slender, fleet ;
-
I saw -- past Wordsworth and the rest --
-
Her natural, Greek, and silver feet.
(an Incident of Froom Valley)
"THY husband--poor, poor Heart!--is dead--
Dead, out by Moreford Rise;
A bull escaped the barton-shed,
Gored him, and there he lies!"
--"Ha, ha--go away! 'Tis a tale, methink,
Thou joker Kit!" laughed she.
"I've known thee many a year, Kit Twink,
And ever hast thou fooled me!"
--"But, Mistress Damon--I can swear
Thy goodman John is dead!
And soon th'lt hear their feet who bear
His body to his bed."
So unwontedly sad was the merry man's face--
That face which had long deceived--
That she gazed and gazed; and then could trace
The truth there; and she believed.
She laid a hand on the dresser-ledge,
And scanned far Egdon-side;
And stood; and you heard the wind-swept sedge
And the rippling Froom; till she cried:
"O my chamber's untidied, unmade my bed,
Though the day has begun to wear!
'What a slovenly hussif!' it will be said,
When they all go up my stair!"
She disappeared; and the joker stood
Depressed by his neighbor's doom,
And amazed that a wife struck to widowhood
Thought first of her unkempt room.
But a fortnight thence she could take no food,
And she pined in a slow decay;
While Kit soon lost his mournful mood
And laughed in his ancient way.
The Sounds Of Nature
O, tis so sweet.
Who am I
That would dare try to repeat
The lovliness of a tweet.
The flutter of its wings
The tiny cute prints
Of a little birds feet.
The Sounds of Nature
O, how beautiful yet afar.
Are raindrops against the windshield
Of a still parked car.
Each little drip dropp runs
Caressing the mind so intensely
Seemingly just to play a part
Or perhaps for the fun of it.
O, The Sounds Of Nature
Sometimes deeply doth groan.
When by an unwillingly nature
One's heart decides to roam.
How lovely is a weep
Who does understand the moan.
When its all part of nature
But who wants to be left alone.
The  whispers of the trees.
The ripples of the oceans.
The clapping of thunder.
The might of lightening.
The gentle breeze that brushes against you.
The beautiful songs of the birds.
The beauty of the sunset.
The harp at Nature's advent strung
Has never ceased to play;
The song the stars of morning sung
Has never died away.
And prayer is made, and praise is given,
By all things near and far;
The ocean looketh up to heaven,
And mirrors every star.
Its waves are kneeling on the strand,
As kneels the human knee,
Their white locks bowing to the sand,
The priesthood of the sea!
They pour their glittering treasures forth,
Their gifts of pearl they bring,
And all the listening hills of earth
Take up the song they sing.
The green earth sends its incense up
From many a mountain shrine;
From folded leaf and dewy cup
She pours her sacred wine.
The mists above the morning rills
Rise white as wings of prayer;
The altar-curtains of the hills
Are sunset's purple air.
The winds with hymns of praise are loud,
Or low with sobs of pain, --
The thunder-organ of the cloud,
The dropping tears of rain.
With drooping head and branches crossed
The twilight forest grieves,
Or speaks with tongues of Pentecost
From all its sunlit leaves.
The blue sky is the temple's arch,
Its transept earth and air,
The music of its starry march
The chorus of a prayer.
So Nature keeps the reverent frame
With which her years began,
And all her signs and voices shame
The prayerless heart of man.
It may indeed be fantasy when I
Essay to draw from all created things
Deep, heartfelt, inward joy that closely clings;
And trace in leaves and flowers that round me lie
Lessons of love and earnest piety.
So let it be; and if the wide world rings
In mock of this belief, it brings
Nor fear, nor grief, nor vain perplexity.
So will I build my altar in the fields,
And the blue sky my fretted dome shall be,
And the sweet fragrance that the wild flower yields
Shall be the incense I will yield to Thee,
Thee only God! and thou shalt not despise
Even me, the priest of this poor sacrifice.
SHOW thee as I thought thee
When I early sought thee,
Omen-scouting,
All undoubting
Love alone had wrought thee--
Wrought thee for my pleasure,
Planned thee as a measure
For expounding
And resounding
Glad things that men treasure.
O for but a moment
Of that old endowment--
Light to gaily
See thy daily
Irisèd embowment!
But such readorning
Time forbids with scorning--
Makes me see things
Cease to be things
They were in my morning.
Fad'st thou, glow-forsaken,
Darkness-overtaken!
Thy first sweetness,
Radiance, meetness,
None shall reawaken.
Why not sempiternal
Thou and I? Our vernal
Brightness keeping,
Time outleaping;
Passed the hodiernal!
Around the hub, the galaxies turn
Pinwheels scrubbed, in magnetic urn
Gravity attracts, while motion glides
Equal force acts, to sustain the rides
The Milky Way, is towed along
Its center conveyed, by nature's song
The flux lines strum, as they pass by
A radio hum, an electrical sigh
And so it be, with our own sun
By magnetic sea, its field is spun
The axial spin, then thus does tow
It's satellites in an induction row
The best conductors turn fairly fast
While the resistors last with the past
Lines of force roll round the outside
Because the course is too dense inside
When the field of the planet is low
It tends to yield all turning flow
If more than one set of poles it has
It will turn yet, but less as lines pass
< br>
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
When the early morning is born with heavenly blessed
When the bright sun rays shower through the misty clouds
When the birds choir being to chirp their songs on the trees
then the day being with a wonderful of nature.
I can feel the Mother Nature touches me with her love
I can feel the nature illuminates my heart and brighten my soul
I can see the green grass in summer-spread lovely
I can see the flowers in the spring bloomed lavishly
I can see the leaves falls in the autumn covered earth greatly
I can see the trees full of snow in the winter sprinkled
I can see the stream water gurgles from the mountain
I can see the fauna in the jungles freely set to live happily
I can see the barren lands wet and fertile
Not only they are beautiful in nature
but they serve a purpose for us
Not only they are beauty as forest
but they serve food and water for us
Always, praise the God and thank HIM for HIS beautiful creation
What a wonderful world of nature that you and me live.
What being in rank-old nature should earlier have that breath been
That hére pérsonal tells off these heart-song powerful peals?—
A bush-browed, beetle-brówed bíllow is it?
With a soúth-wésterly wínd blústering, with a tide rolls reels
Of crumbling, fore-foundering, thundering all-surfy seas in; seen
Únderneath, their glassy barrel, of a fairy green.
. . . . . . . .
Or a jaunting vaunting vaulting assaulting trumpet telling
Autumn leaves that turn to gold
Flowers that are bright and bold
Tremble in the cooling wind
Messages the autumn sends
Soon the winter storm so strong
We hope that it would not stay long
Now it's almost time to change
And the landscape soon will rearrange
Spring will come before we know
This will bring a winter thaw
And then spring, oh glorious spring
Isn't it exciting what nature brings?
From father to son
The mark of identity
The Y chromosome
natu re nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
Your relationship with Nature speaks volumes about you
Do you only see Nature as a means to financial gain or are you one of those who
Love Nature for her beauty and love her wildlife and her trees
And her rivers, lakes and mountains and her fields and flowers and bees?
Your relationship with Nature tells of the sort of person that you are
Do you see Nature's protectors as those who have gone too far
In their dispute with the developer in their fight for every tree
If this be so you support the environmental vandals or so 'twould seem to me?
Your relationship with Nature about you more can say
Than all of your friends and enemies can or so 'twould seem that way
For your apathy to Nature tells of your inner strife
And your attitude to Nature is your attitude to life.
Your relationship with Nature says far more about you
Than anyone else of you can say as their words may not be true
For if you love Mother Nature and with her live in harmony
Then you are working for the good of all of humanity.
At a hermitage:
A cool fall night--
getting dinner, we peeled
eggplants, cucumbers.
Translated by Robert Hass
I have been one acquainted with the night.
I have walked out in rain -  and back in rain.
I have outwalked the furthest city light.
I have looked down the saddest city lane.
I have passed by the watchman on his beat
And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain.
I have stood still and stopped the sound of feet
When far away an interrupted cry
Came over houses from another street,
But not to call me back or say good-bye;
And further still at an unearthly height,
One luminary clock against the sky
Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.
I have been one acquainted with the night.
"I have been one acquainted with the night" - Robert Frost
Rode in the train all night, in the sick light. A bird
Flew parallel with a singular will. In daydream's moods and
attitudes
The other passengers slumped, dozed, slept, read,
Waiting, and waiting for place to be displaced
On the exact track of safety or the rack of accident.
Looked out at the night, unable to distinguish
Lights in the towns of passage from the yellow lights
Numb on the ceiling. And the bird flew parallel and still
As the train shot forth the straight line of its whistle,
Forward on the taut tracks, piercing empty, familiar --
The bored center of this vision and condition looked and
looked
Down through the slick pages of the magazine (seeking
The seen and the unseen) and his gaze fell down the well
Of the great darkness under the slick glitter,
And he was only one among eight million riders and
readers.
And all the while under his empty smile the shaking drum
Of the long determined passage passed through him
By his body mimicked and echoed. And then the train
Like a suddenly storming rain, began to rush and thresh--
The silent or passive night, pressing and impressing
The patients' foreheads with a tightening-like image
Of the rushing engine proceeded by a shaft of light
Piercing the dark, changing and transforming the silence
Into a violence of foam, sound, smoke and succession.
A bored child went to get a cup of water,
And crushed the cup because the water too was
Boring and merely boredom's struggle.
The child, returning, looked over the shoulder
Of a man reading until he annoyed the shoulder.
A fat woman yawned and felt the liquid drops
Drip down the fleece of many dinners.
And the bird flew parallel and parallel flew
The black pencil lines of telephone posts, crucified,
At regular intervals, post after post
Of thrice crossed, blue-belled, anonymous trees.
And then the bird cried as if to all of us:
0 your life, your lonely life
What have you ever done with it,
And done with the great gift of consciousness?
What will you ever do with your life before death's
knife
Provides the answer ultimate and appropriate?
As I for my part felt in my heart as one who falls,
Falls in a parachute, falls endlessly, and feel the vast
Draft of the abyss sucking him down and down,
An endlessly helplessly falling and appalled clown:
This is the way that night passes by, this
Is the overnight endless trip to the famous unfathomable
abyss.
Epilogue to 'A Vision'
MIDNIGHT has come, and the great Christ Church Bell
And may a lesser bell sound through the room;
And it is All Souls' Night,
And two long glasses brimmed with muscatel
Bubble upon the table.  A ghost may come;
For it is a ghost's right,
His element is so fine
Being sharpened by his death,
To drink from the wine-breath
While our gross palates drink from the whole wine.
I need some mind that, if the cannon sound
From every quarter of the world, can stay
Wound in mind's pondering
As mummies in the mummy-cloth are wound;
Because I have a marvellous thing to say,
A certain marvellous thing
None but the living mock,
Though not for sober ear;
It may be all that hear
Should laugh and weep an hour upon the clock.
Horton's the first I call.  He loved strange thought
And knew that sweet extremity of pride
That's called platonic love,
And that to such a pitch of passion wrought
Nothing could bring him, when his lady died,
Anodyne for his love.
Words were but wasted breath;
One dear hope had he:
The inclemency
Of that or the next winter would be death.
Two thoughts were so mixed up I could not tell
Whether of her or God he thought the most,
But think that his mind's eye,
When upward turned, on one sole image fell;
And that a slight companionable ghost,
Wild with divinity,
Had so lit up the whole
Immense miraculous house
The Bible promised us,
It seemed a gold-fish swimming in a bowl.
On Florence Emery I call the next,
Who finding the first wrinkles on a face
Admired and beautiful,
And knowing that the future would be vexed
With 'minished beauty, multiplied commonplace,
preferred to teach a school
Away from neighbour or friend,
Among dark skins, and there
permit foul years to wear
Hidden from eyesight to the unnoticed end.
Before that end much had she ravelled out
From a discourse in figurative speech
By some learned Indian
On the soul's journey.  How it is whirled about,
Wherever the orbit of the moon can reach,
Until it plunge into the sun;
And there, free and yet fast,
Being both Chance and Choice,
Forget its broken toys
And sink into its own delight at last.
And I call up MacGregor from the grave,
For in my first hard springtime we were friends.
Although of late estranged.
I thought him half a lunatic, half knave,
And told him so, but friendship never ends;
And what if mind seem changed,
And it seem changed with the mind,
When thoughts rise up unbid
On generous things that he did
And I grow half contented to be blind!
He had much industry at setting out,
Much boisterous courage, before loneliness
Had driven him crazed;
For meditations upon unknown thought
Make human intercourse grow less and less;
They are neither paid nor praised.
but he d object to the host,
The glass because my glass;
A ghost-lover he was
And may have grown more arrogant being a ghost.
But names are nothing.  What matter who it be,
So that his elements have grown so fine
The fume of muscatel
Can give his sharpened palate ecstasy
No living man can drink from the whole wine.
I have mummy truths to tell
Whereat the living mock,
Though not for sober ear,
For maybe all that hear
Should laugh and weep an hour upon the clock.
Such thought -- such thought have I that hold it tight
Till meditation master all its parts,
Nothing can stay my glance
Until that glance run in the world's despite
To where the damned have howled away their hearts,
And where the blessed dance;
Such thought, that in it bound
I need no other thing,
Wound in mind's wandering
As mummies in the mummy-cloth are wound.
In my Spanish cloak,
And old slouch hat,
And overshoes of felt,
And Tyke, my faithful dog,
And my knotted hickory cane,
I slipped about with a bull's-eye lantern
From door to door on the square,
As the midnight stars wheeled round,
And the bell in the steeple murmured
From the blowing of the wind;
And the weary steps of old Doc Hill
Sounded like one who walks in sleep,
And a far-off rooster crew.
And now another is watching Spoon River
As others watched before me.
And here we lie, Doc Hill and I
Where none breaks through and steals,
And no eye needs to guard.
471
A Night—there lay the Days between—
The Day that was Before—
And Day that was Behind—were one—
And now—'twas Night—was here—
Slow—Night—that must be watched away—
As Grains upon a shore—
Too imperceptible to note—
Till it be night—no more—
------The sky is overcast
With a continuous cloud of texture close,
Heavy and wan, all whitened by the Moon,
Which through that veil is indistinctly seen,
A dull, contracted circle, yielding light
So feebly spread, that not a shadow falls,
Chequering the ground--from rock, plant, tree, or tower.
At length a pleasant instantaneous gleam
Startles the pensive traveller while he treads
His lonesome path, with unobserving eye
Bent earthwards; he looks up--the clouds are split
Asunder,--and above his head he sees
The clear Moon, and the glory of the heavens.
There, in a black-blue vault she sails along,
Followed by multitudes of stars, that, small
And sharp, and bright, along the dark abyss
Drive as she drives: how fast they wheel away,
Yet vanish not!--the wind is in the tree,
But they are silent;--still they roll along
Immeasurably distant; and the vault,
Built round by those white clouds, enormous clouds,
Still deepens its unfathomable depth.
At length the Vision closes; and the mind,
Not undisturbed by the delight it feels,
Which slowly settles into peaceful calm,
Is left to muse upon the solemn scene.
Open the window, and let the air
Freshly blow upon face and hair,
And fill the room, as it fills the night,
With the breath of the rain's sweet might.
Hark! the burthen, swift and prone!
And how the odorous limes are blown!
Stormy Love's abroad, and keeps
Hopeful coil for gentle sleeps.
Not a blink shall burn to-night
In my chamber, of sordid light;
Nought will I have, not a window-pane,
'Twixt me and the air and the great good rain,
Which ever shall sing me sharp lullabies;
And God's own darkness shall close mine eyes;
And I will sleep, with all things blest,
In the pure earth-shadow of natural rest.
Lo! where the Moon along the sky
Sails with her happy destiny;
Oft is she hid from mortal eye
Or dimly seen,
But when the clouds asunder fly
How bright her mien!
Far different we--a froward race,
Thousands though rich in Fortune's grace
With cherished sullenness of pace
Their way pursue,
Ingrates who wear a smileless face
The whole year through.
If kindred humours e'er would make
My spirit droop for drooping's sake,
From Fancy following in thy wake,
Bright ship of heaven!
A counter impulse let me take
And be forgiven.
All out of doors looked darkly in at him
Through the thin frost, almost in separate stars,
That gathers on the pane in empty rooms.
What kept his eyes from giving back the gaze
Was the lamp tilted near them in his hand.
What kept him from remembering what it was
That brought him to that creaking room was age.
He stood with barrels round him -- at a loss.
And having scared the cellar under him
In clomping there, he scared it once again
In clomping off; -- and scared the outer night,
Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roar
Of trees and crack of branches, common things,
But nothing so like beating on a box.
A light he was to no one but himself
Where now he sat, concerned with he knew what,
A quiet light, and then not even that.
He consigned to the moon, such as she was,
So late-arising, to the broken moon
As better than the sun in any case
For such a charge, his snow upon the roof,
His icicles along the wall to keep;
And slept. The log that shifted with a jolt
Once in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted,
And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept.
One aged man -- one man -- can't keep a house,
A farm, a countryside, or if he can,
It's thus he does it of a winter night.
There!  See the line of lights,
A chain of stars down either side the street --
Why can't you lift the chain and give it to me,
A necklace for my throat?  I'd twist it round
And you could play with it.  You smile at me
As though I were a little dreamy child
Behind whose eyes the fairies live. . . .  And see,
The people on the street look up at us
All envious.  We are a king and queen,
Our royal carriage is a motor bus,
We watch our subjects with a haughty joy. . . .
How still you are!  Have you been hard at work
And are you tired to-night?  It is so long
Since I have seen you -- four whole days, I think.
My heart is crowded full of foolish thoughts
Like early flowers in an April meadow,
And I must give them to you, all of them,
Before they fade.  The people I have met,
The play I saw, the trivial, shifting things
That loom too big or shrink too little, shadows
That hurry, gesturing along a wall,
Haunting or gay -- and yet they all grow real
And take their proper size here in my heart
When you have seen them. . . .  There's the Plaza now,
A lake of light!  To-night it almost seems
That all the lights are gathered in your eyes,
Drawn somehow toward you.  See the open park
Lying below us with a million lamps
Scattered in wise disorder like the stars.
We look down on them as God must look down
On constellations floating under Him
Tangled in clouds. . . .  Come, then, and let us walk
Since we have reached the park.  It is our garden,
All black and blossomless this winter night,
But we bring April with us, you and I;
We set the whole world on the trail of spring.
I think that every path we ever took
Has marked our footprints in mysterious fire,
Delicate gold that only fairies see.
When they wake up at dawn in hollow tree-trunks
And come out on the drowsy park, they look
Along the empty paths and say, "Oh, here
They went, and here, and here, and here!  Come, see,
Here is their bench, take hands and let us dance
About it in a windy ring and make
A circle round it only they can cross
When they come back again!" . . .  Look at the lake --
Do you remember how we watched the swans
That night in late October while they slept?
Swans must have stately dreams, I think.  But now
The lake bears only thin reflected lights
That shake a little.  How I long to take
One from the cold black water -- new-made gold
To give you in your hand!  And see, and see,
There is a star, deep in the lake, a star!
Oh, dimmer than a pearl -- if you stoop down
Your hand could almost reach it up to me. . . .
There was a new frail yellow moon to-night --
I wish you could have had it for a cup
With stars like dew to fill it to the brim. . . .
How cold it is!  Even the lights are cold;
They have put shawls of fog around them, see!
What if the air should grow so dimly white
That we would lose our way along the paths
Made new by walls of moving mist receding
The more we follow. . . .  What a silver night!
That was our bench the time you said to me
The long new poem -- but how different now,
How eerie with the curtain of the fog
Making it strange to all the friendly trees!
There is no wind, and yet great curving scrolls
Carve themselves, ever changing, in the mist.
Walk on a little, let me stand here watching
To see you, too, grown strange to me and far. . . .
I used to wonder how the park would be
If one night we could have it all alone --
No lovers with close arm-encircled waists
To whisper and break in upon our dreams.
And now we have it!  Every wish comes true!
We are alone now in a fleecy world;
Even the stars have gone.  We two alone!
Submitted by Venus
Look, the eucalyptus, the Atlas pine,
the yellowing ash, all the trees
are gone, and I was older than
all of them. I am older than the moon,
than the stars that fill my plate,
than the unseen planets that huddle
together here at the end of a year
no one wanted. A year more than a year,
in which the sparrows learned
to fly backwards into eternity.
Their brothers and sisters saw this
and refuse to build nests. Before
the week is over they will all
have gone, and the chorus of love
that filled my yard and spilled
into my kitchen each evening
will be gone. I will have to learn
to sing in the voices of pure joy
and pure pain. I will have to forget
my name, my childhood, the years
under the cold dominion of the clock
so that this voice, torn and cracked,
can reach the low hills that shielded
the orange trees once. I will stand
on the back porch as the cold
drifts in, and sing, not for joy,
not for love, not even to be heard.
I will sing so that the darkness
can take hold and whatever
is left, the fallen fruit, the last
leaf, the puzzled squirrel, the child
far from home, lost, will believe
this could be any night. That boy,
walking alone, thinking of nothing
or reciting his favorite names
to the moon and stars, let him
find the home he left this morning,
let him hear a prayer out
of the raging mouth of the wind.
Let him repeat that prayer,
the prayer that night follows day,
that life follows death, that in time
we find our lives. Don't let him see
all that has gone. Let him love
the darkness. Look, he's running
and singing too. He could be happy.
The sun has set and the shadows fled
The feathered flocks, flown to their nest
Weary men after the day's toil and care
Are back home for sleep and rest
No bird sings and no beast strays
No tramp wanders and no lights shimmer
Silence rules and peace prevails
The sky is clear and the stars do glimmer
Buds unfold in shady glades
A sweet aroma pervades the air
Fluttering leaves sing a lullaby
And glow worms reel on wings of fire
Birds and beasts, in Nature's bosom rest
Babies nap, cuddling to their mothers tight
Tired men stretch out under quilts for ease
The world, asleep with dreams sweet and bright
A brief interlude from all angry strife
A time of farewell to all frivolous conceits
A holy night to bury our woes
And a God sent time to ease our spirits!
April, and the last of the plum blossoms
scatters on the black grass
before dawn. The sycamore, the lime,
the struck pine inhale
the first pale hints of sky.
An iron day,
I think, yet it will come
dazzling, the light
rise from the belly of leaves and pour
burning from the cups
of poppies.
The mockingbird squawks
from his perch, fidgets,
and settles back. The snail, awake
for good, trembles from his shell
and sets sail for China. My hand dances
in the memory of a million vanished stars.
A man has every place to lay his head.
AS one who having wandered all night long
In a perplexed forest, comes at length
In the first hours, about the matin song,
And when the sun uprises in his strength,
To the fringed margin of the wood, and sees,
Gazing afar before him, many a mile
Of falling country, many fields and trees,
And cities and bright streams and far-off Ocean's smile:
I, O Melampus, halting, stand at gaze:
I, liberated, look abroad on life,
Love, and distress, and dusty travelling ways,
The steersman's helm, the surgeon's helpful knife,
On the lone ploughman's earth-upturning share,
The revelry of cities and the sound
Of seas, and mountain-tops aloof in air,
And of the circling earth the unsupported round:
I, looking, wonder: I, intent, adore;
And, O Melampus, reaching forth my hands
In adoration, cry aloud and soar
In spirit, high above the supine lands
And the low caves of mortal things, and flee
To the last fields of the universe untrod,
Where is no man, nor any earth, nor sea,
And the contented soul is all alone with God.
960
As plan for Noon and plan for Night
So differ Life and Death
In positive Prospective—
The Foot upon the Earth
At Distance, and Achievement, strains,
The Foot upon the Grave
Makes effort at conclusion
Assisted faint of Love.
At night Chinamen jump
on Asia with a thump
while in our willful way
we, in secret, play
affectionate games and bruise
our knees like China's shoes.
The birds push apples through
grass the moon turns blue,
these apples roll beneath
our buttocks like a heath
full of Chinese thrushes
flushed from China's bushes.
As we love at night
birds sing out of sight,
Chinese rhythms beat
through us in our heat,
the apples and the birds
move us like soft words,
we couple in the grace
of that mysterious race.
At night, when the sea cradles me
And the pale star gleam
Lies down on its broad waves,
Then I free myself wholly
From all activity and all the love
And stand silent and breathe purely,
Alone, alone cradled by the sea
That lies there, cold and silent, with a thousand lights.
Then I have to think of my friends
And my gaze sinks into their gazes
And I ask each one, silent, alone:
"Are you still mine"
Is my sorrow a sorrow to you, my death a death?
Do you feel from my love, my grief,
Just a breath, just an echo?"
And the sea peacefully gazes back, silent,
And smiles: no.
And no greeting and now answer comes from anywhere.
Translated by James Wright
Submitted by Holt
We are apart; the city grows quiet between us,
She hushes herself, for midnight makes heavy her eyes,
The tangle of traffic is ended, the cars are empty,
Five streets divide us, and on them the moonlight lies.
Oh are you asleep, or lying awake, my lover?
Open your dreams to my love and your heart to my words.
I send you my thoughts--the air between us is laden,
My thoughts fly in at your window, a flock of wild birds.
At the mid hour of night, when stars are weeping, I fly
To the lone vale we loved, when life shone warm in thine eye;
And I think oft, if spirits can steal from the regions of air,
To revisit past scenes of delight, thou wilt come to me there,
And tell me our love is remember'd, even in the sky.
Then I sing the wild song 'twas once such pleasure to hear!
When our voices commingling breathed, like one, on the ear;
And, as Echo far off through the vale my said orison rolls,
I think, oh my love! 'tis thy voice from the Kingdom of Souls,
Faintly answering still the notes that once were so dear.
Awake at night--
the sound of the water jar
cracking in the cold.
Translated by Robert Hass
When biting Boreas, fell and doure,
Sharp shivers thro' the leafless bow'r;
When Phoebus gies a short-liv'd glow'r,
Far south the lift,
Dim-dark'ning thro' the flaky show'r,
Or whirling drift:
Ae night the storm the steeples rocked,
Poor Labour sweet in sleep was locked,
While burns, wi' snawy wreeths upchoked,
Wild-eddying swirl,
Or thro' the mining outlet bocked,
Down headlong hurl.
List'ning, the doors an' winnocks rattle,
I thought me on the ourie cattle,
Or silly sheep, wha bide this brattle
O' winter war,
And thro' the drift, deep-lairing, sprattle,
Beneath a scar.
Ilk happing bird, wee, helpless thing!
That, in the merry months o' spring,
Delighted me to hear thee sing,
What comes o' thee?
Whare wilt thou cow'r thy chittering wing
An' close thy e'e?
Ev'n you on murd'ring errands toil'd,
Lone from your savage homes exil'd,
The blood-stain'd roost, and sheep-cote spoil'd
My heart forgets,
While pityless the tempest wild
Sore on you beats.
My window-pane is starred with frost,
The world is bitter cold to-night,
The moon is cruel, and the wind
Is like a two-edged sword to smite.
God pity all the homeless ones,
The beggars pacing to and fro.
God pity all the poor to-night
Who walk the lamp-lit streets of snow.
My room is like a bit of June,
Warm and close-curtained fold on fold,
But somewhere, like a homeless child,
My heart is crying in the cold.
drunk on the dark streets of some city,
it's night, you're lost, where's your
room?
you enter a bar to find yourself,
order scotch and water.
damned bar's sloppy wet, it soaks
part of one of your shirt
sleeves.
It's a clip joint-the scotch is weak.
you order a bottle of beer.
Madame Death walks up to you
wearing a dress.
she sits down, you buy her a
beer, she stinks of swamps, presses
a leg against you.
the bar tender sneers.
you've got him worried, he doesn't
know if you're a cop, a killer, a
madman or an
Idiot.
you ask for a vodka.
you pour the vodka into the top of
the beer bottle.
It's one a.m. In a dead cow world.
you ask her how much for head,
drink everything down, it tastes
like machine oil.
you leave Madame Death there,
you leave the sneering bartender
there.
you have remembered where
your room is.
the room with the full bottle of
wine on the dresser.
the room with the dance of the
roaches.
Perfection in the Star Turd
where love died
laughing.
.      By night when others soundly slept
And hath at once both ease and Rest,
My waking eyes were open kept
And so to lie I found it best.
.
I sought him whom my Soul did Love,
With tears I sought him earnestly.
He bow'd his ear down from Above.
In vain I did not seek or cry.
.
My hungry Soul he fill'd with Good;
He in his Bottle put my tears,
My smarting wounds washt in his blood,
And banisht thence my Doubts and fears.
.
What to my Saviour shall I give
Who freely hath done this for me?
I'll serve him here whilst I shall live
And Loue him to Eternity
Cold night: the wild duck,
sick, falls from the sky
and sleeps awhile.
Translated by Robert Hass
Inscribed to Robert Aiken, Esq.
Let not Ambition mock their useful toil,
Their homely joys and destiny obscure;
Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful smile,
The short and simple annals of the poor.
(Gray, "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard")
My lov'd, my honour'd, much respected friend!
No mercenary bard his homage pays;
With honest pride, I scorn each selfish end:
My dearest meed a friend's esteem and praise.
To you I sing, in simple Scottish lays,
The lowly train in life's sequester'd scene;
The native feelings strong, the guileless ways;
What Aiken in a cottage would have been;
Ah! tho' his worth unknown, far happier there, I ween!
November chill blaws loud wi' angry sugh,
The short'ning winter day is near a close;
The miry beasts retreating frae the pleugh,
The black'ning trains o' craws to their repose;
The toil-worn Cotter frae his labour goes,--
This night his weekly moil is at an end,--
Collects his spades, his mattocks and his hoes,
Hoping the morn in ease and rest to spend,
And weary, o'er the moor, his course does hameward bend.
At length his lonely cot appears in view,
Beneath the shelter of an aged tree;
Th' expectant wee-things, toddlin, stacher through
To meet their dad, wi' flichterin noise an' glee.
His wee bit ingle, blinkin bonilie,
His clean hearth-stane, his thrifty wifie's smile,
The lisping infant prattling on his knee,
Does a' his weary kiaugh and care beguile,
An' makes him quite forget his labour an' his toil.
Belyve, the elder bairns come drapping in,
At service out, amang the farmers roun';
Some ca' the pleugh, some herd, some tentie rin
A cannie errand to a neibor toun:
Their eldest hope, their Jenny, woman-grown,
In youthfu' bloom, love sparkling in her e'e,
Comes hame, perhaps, to shew a braw new gown,
Or deposite her sair-won penny-fee,
To help her parents dear, if they in hardship be.
With joy unfeign'd, brothers and sisters meet,
An' each for other's weelfare kindly spiers:
The social hours, swift-wing'd, unnotic'd fleet;
Each tells the uncos that he sees or hears.
The parents partial eye their hopeful years;
Anticipation forward points the view;
The mother, wi' her needle an' her sheers,
Gars auld claes look amaist as weel's the new;
The father mixes a' wi' admonition due.
Their master's an' their mistress's command
The younkers a' are warned to obey;
An' mind their labours wi' an eydent hand,
An' ne'er tho' out o' sight, to jauk or play:
"An' O! be sure to fear the Lord alway,
An' mind your duty, duly, morn an' night!
Lest in temptation's path ye gang astray,
Implore his counsel and assisting might:
They never sought in vain that sought the Lord aright!"
But hark! a rap comes gently to the door.
Jenny, wha kens the meaning o' the same,
Tells how a neebor lad cam o'er the moor,
To do some errands, and convoy her hame.
The wily mother sees the conscious flame
Sparkle in Jenny's e'e, and flush her cheek;
Wi' heart-struck, anxious care, inquires his name,
While Jenny hafflins is afraid to speak;
Weel-pleas'd the mother hears, it's nae wild, worthless rake.
Wi' kindly welcome Jenny brings him ben,
A strappin youth; he takes the mother's eye;
Blythe Jenny sees the visit's no ill taen;
The father cracks of horses, pleughs, and kye.
The youngster's artless heart o'erflows wi' joy,
But, blate and laithfu', scarce can weel behave;
The mother wi' a woman's wiles can spy
What maks the youth sae bashfu' an' sae grave,
Weel pleas'd to think her bairn's respected like the lave.
O happy love! where love like this is found!
O heart-felt raptures! bliss beyond compare!
I've paced much this weary, mortal round,
And sage experience bids me this declare--
"If Heaven a draught of heavenly pleasure spare,
One cordial in this melancholy vale,
'Tis when a youthful, loving, modest pair,
In other's arms breathe out the tender tale,
Beneath the milk-white thorn that scents the ev'ning gale."
Is there, in human form, that bears a heart,
A wretch! a villain! lost to love and truth!
That can with studied, sly, ensnaring art
Betray sweet Jenny's unsuspecting youth?
Curse on his perjur'd arts! dissembling smooth!
Are honour, virtue, conscience, all exil'd?
Is there no pity, no relenting truth,
Points to the parents fondling o'er their child,
Then paints the ruin'd maid, and their distraction wild?
But now the supper crowns their simple board,
The halesome parritch, chief of Scotia's food;
The soupe their only hawkie does afford,
That yont the hallan snugly chows her cud.
The dame brings forth, in complimental mood,
To grace the lad, her weel-hain'd kebbuck fell,
An' aft he's prest, an' aft he ca's it guid;
The frugal wifie, garrulous, will tell,
How 'twas a towmond auld, sin' lint was i' the bell.
The cheerfu' supper done, wi' serious face,
They round the ingle form a circle wide;
The sire turns o'er, with patriarchal grace,
The big ha'-Bible, ance his father's pride;
His bonnet rev'rently is laid aside,
His lyart haffets wearing thin and bare;
Those strains that once did sweet in Zion glide,
He wales a portion with judicious care;
And, "Let us worship God," he says with solemn air.
They chant their artless notes in simple guise;
They tune their hearts, by far the noblest aim:
Perhaps Dundee's wild-warbling measures rise,
Or plaintive Martyrs, worthy of the name,
Or noble Elgin beets the heaven-ward flame,
The sweetest far of Scotia's holy lays.
Compar'd with these, Italian trills are tame;
The tickl'd ear no heart-felt raptures raise;
Nae unison hae they, with our Creator's praise.
The priest-like father reads the sacred page,
How Abram was the friend of God on high;
Or Moses bade eternal warfare wage
With Amalek's ungracious progeny;
Or how the royal bard did groaning lie
Beneath the stroke of Heaven's avenging ire;
Or Job's pathetic plaint, and wailing cry;
Or rapt Isaiah's wild, seraphic fire;
Or other holy seers that tune the sacred lyre.
Perhaps the Christian volume is the theme,
How guiltless blood for guilty man was shed;
How He, who bore in Heaven the second name
Had not on earth whereon to lay His head:
How His first followers and servants sped;
The precepts sage they wrote to many a land:
How he, who lone in Patmos banished,
Saw in the sun a mighty angel stand,
And heard great Bab'lon's doom pronounc'd by Heaven's command.
Then kneeling down to Heaven's Eternal King,
The saint, the father, and the husband prays:
Hope "springs exulting on triumphant wing,"
That thus they all shall meet in future days:
There ever bask in uncreated rays,
No more to sigh or shed the bitter tear,
Together hymning their Creator's praise,
In such society, yet still more dear,
While circling Time moves round in an eternal sphere.
Compar'd with this, how poor Religion's pride
In all the pomp of method and of art,
When men display to congregations wide
Devotion's ev'ry grace except the heart!
The Pow'r, incens'd, the pageant will desert,
The pompous strain, the sacerdotal stole;
But haply in some cottage far apart
May hear, well pleas'd, the language of the soul,
And in His Book of Life the inmates poor enrol.
Then homeward all take off their sev'ral way;
The youngling cottagers retire to rest;
The parent-pair their secret homage pay,
And proffer up to Heav'n the warm request,
That He who stills the raven's clam'rous nest,
And decks the lily fair in flow'ry pride,
Would, in the way His wisdom sees the best,
For them and for their little ones provide;
But chiefly, in their hearts with grace divine preside.
From scenes like these old Scotia's grandeur springs,
That makes her lov'd at home, rever'd abroad:
Princes and lords are but the breath of kings,
"An honest man's the noblest work of God":
And certes, in fair Virtue's heavenly road,
The cottage leaves the palace far behind:
What is a lordling's pomp? a cumbrous load,
Disguising oft the wretch of human kind,
Studied in arts of hell, in wickedness refin'd!
O Scotia! my dear, my native soil!
For whom my warmest wish to Heaven is sent!
Long may thy hardy sons of rustic toil
Be blest with health, and peace, and sweet content!
And, oh! may Heaven their simple lives prevent
From luxury's contagion, weak and vile!
Then, howe'er crowns and coronets be rent,
A virtuous populace may rise the while,
And stand a wall of fire around their much-lov'd isle.
O Thou! who pour'd the patriotic tide
That stream'd thro' Wallace's undaunted heart,
Who dar'd to nobly stem tyrannic pride,
Or nobly die, the second glorious part,--
(The patriot's God peculiarly thou art,
His friend, inspirer, guardian, and reward!)
O never, never Scotia's realm desert,
But still the patriot, and the patriot-bard,
In bright succession raise, her ornament and guard!
Through my heart's palace Thoughts unnumbered throng;
And there, most quiet and, as a child, most wise,
High-throned you sit, and gracious.  All day long
Great Hopes gold-armoured, jester Fantasies,
And pilgrim Dreams, and little beggar Sighs,
Bow to your benediction, go their way.
And the grave jewelled courtier Memories
Worship and love and tend you, all the day.
But when I sleep, and all my thoughts go straying,
When the high session of the day is ended,
And darkness comes; then, with the waning light,
By lilied maidens on your way attended,
Proud from the wonted throne, superbly swaying,
You, like a queen, pass out into the night.
The cold slope is standing in darkness
But the south of the trees is dry to the touch
The heavy limbs climb into the moonlight bearing feathers
I came to watch these
White plants older at night
The oldest
Come first to the ruins
And I hear magpies kept awake by the moon
The water flows through its
Own fingers without end
Tonight once more
I find a single prayer and it is not for men
Deep in the night the cry of a swallow,
Under the stars he flew,
Keen as pain was his call to follow
Over the world to you.
Love in my heart is a cry forever
Lost as the swallow's flight,
Seeking for you and never, never
Stilled by the stars at night.
Do not go gentle into that good night,
Old age should burn and rave at close of day;
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Though wise men at their end know dark is right,
Because their words had forked no lightning they
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright
Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay,
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,
And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way,
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight
Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay,
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
And you, my father, there on that sad height,
Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
158
Dying! Dying in the night!
Won't somebody bring the light
So I can see which way to go
Into the everlasting snow?
And "Jesus"! Where is Jesus gone?
They said that Jesus—always came—
Perhaps he doesn't know the House—
This way, Jesus, Let him pass!
Somebody run to the great gate
And see if Dollie's coming! Wait!
I hear her feet upon the stair!
Death won't hurt—now Dollie's here!
Above us, stars.  Beneath us, constellations.
Five billion miles away, a galaxy dies
like a snowflake falling on water.  Below us,
some farmer, feeling the chill of that distant death,
snaps on his yard light, drawing his sheds and barn
back into the little system of his care.
All night, the cities, like shimmering novas,
tug with bright streets at lonely lights like his.
Pigeons shake their wings on the copper church roof
out my window across the street, a bird perched on the cross
surveys the city's blue-grey clouds. Larry Rivers
'll come at 10 AM and take my picture. I'm taking
your picture, pigeons. I'm writing you down, Dawn.
I'm immortalizing your exhaust, Avenue A bus.
O Thought, now you'll have to think the same thing forever!
Apple-green west and an orange bar,
And the crystal eye of a lone, one star . . .
And, "Child, take the shears and cut what you will,
Frost to-night -- so clear and dead-still."
Then, I sally forth, half sad, half proud,
And I come to the velvet, imperial crowd,
The wine-red, the gold, the crimson, the pied, --
The dahlias that reign by the garden-side.
The dahlias I might not touch till to-night!
A gleam of the shears in the fading light,
And I gathered them all, -- the splendid throng,
And in one great sheaf I bore them along.
. . . . .
In my garden of Life with its all-late flowers
I heed a Voice in the shrinking hours:
"Frost to-night -- so clear and dead-still" . . .
Half sad, half proud, my arms I fill.
Many ways to say good night.
Fireworks at a pier on the Fourth of July
spell it with red wheels and yellow spokes.
They fizz in the air, touch the water and quit.
Rockets make a trajectory of gold-and-blue
and then go out.
Railroad trains at night spell with a smokestack mushrooming a white pillar.
Steamboats turn a curve in the Mississippi crying a baritone that crosses lowland cottonfields to razorback hill.
It is easy to spell good night.
Many ways to spell good night.
Good-night? ah! no; the hour is ill
Which severs those it should unite;
Let us remain together still,
Then it will be good night.
How can I call the lone night good,
Though thy sweet wishes wing its flight?
Be it not said, thought, understood --
Then it will be -- good night.
To hearts which near each other move
From evening close to morning light,
The night is good; because, my love,
They never say good-night.
What if this present were the world's last night?
Mark in my heart, O soul, where thou dost dwell,
The picture of Christ crucified, and tell
Whether that countenance can thee affright,
Tears in his eyes quench the amazing light,
Blood fills his frowns, which from his pierced head fell.
And can that tongue adjudge thee unto hell,
Which prayed forgiveness for his foes' fierce spite?
No, no; but as in my idolatry
I said to all my profane mistresses,
Beauty, of pity, foulness only is
A sign of rigour: so I say to thee,
To wicked spirits are horrid shapes assigned,
This beauteous form assures a piteous mind.
Longing for Death
Into the bosom of the earth,
Out of the Light's dominion,
Death's pains are but a bursting forth,
Sign of glad departure.
Swift in the narrow little boat,
Swift to the heavenly shore we float.
Blessed be the everlasting Night,
And blessed the endless slumber.
We are heated by the day too bright,
And withered up with care.
We're weary of a life abroad,
And we now want our Father's home.
What in this world should we all
Do with love and with faith?
That which is old is set aside,
And the new may perish also.
Alone he stands and sore downcast
Who loves with pious warmth the Past.
The Past where the light of the senses
In lofty flames did rise;
Where the Father's face and hand
All men did recognize;
And, with high sense, in simplicity
Many still fit the original pattern.
The Past wherein, still rich in bloom,
Man's strain did burgeon glorious,
And children, for the world to come,
Sought pain and death victorious,
And, through both life and pleasure spake,
Yet many a heart for love did break.
The Past, where to the flow of youth
God still showed himself,
And truly to an early death
Did commit his sweet life.
Fear and torture patiently he bore
So that he would be loved forever.
With anxious yearning now we see
That Past in darkness drenched,
With this world's water never we
Shall find our hot thirst quenched.
To our old home we have to go
That blessed time again to know.
What yet doth hinder our return
To loved ones long reposed?
Their grave limits our lives.
We are all sad and afraid.
We can search for nothing more --
The heart is full, the world is void.
Infinite and mysterious,
Thrills through us a sweet trembling --
As if from far there echoed thus
A sigh, our grief resembling.
Our loved ones yearn as well as we,
And sent to us this longing breeze.
Down to the sweet bride, and away
To the beloved Jesus.
Have courage, evening shades grow gray
To those who love and grieve.
A dream will dash our chains apart,
And lay us in the Father's lap.
I heard the trailing garments of the Night
Sweep through her marble halls!
I saw her sable skirts all fringed with light
From the celestial walls!
I felt her presence, by its spell of might,
Stoop o'er me from above;
The calm, majestic presence of the Night,
As of the one I love.
I heard the sounds of sorrow and delight,
The manifold, soft chimes,
That fill the haunted chambers of the Night
Like some old poet's rhymes.
From the cool cisterns of the midnight air
My spirit drank repose;
The fountain of perpetual peace flows there,--
From those deep cisterns flows.
O holy Night! from thee I learn to bear
What man has borne before!
Thou layest thy finger on the lips of Care,
And they complain no more.
Peace!  Peace!  Orestes-like I breathe this prayer!
Descend with broad-winged flight,
The welcome, the thrice-prayed for, the most fair,
The best-beloved Night!
I longed for companionship rather,
But my companions I always wished farther.
And now in the desolate night
I think only of the people i should like to bite.
In the secular night you wander around
alone in your house. It's two-thirty.
Everyone has deserted you,
or this is your story;
you remember it from being sixteen,
when the others were out somewhere, having a good time,
or so you suspected,
and you had to baby-sit.
You took a large scoop of vanilla ice-cream
and filled up the glass with grapejuice
and ginger ale, and put on Glenn Miller
with his big-band sound,
and lit a cigarette and blew the smoke up the chimney,
and cried for a while because you were not dancing,
and then danced, by yourself, your mouth circled with purple.
Now, forty years later, things have changed,
and it's baby lima beans.
It's necessary to reserve a secret vice.
This is what comes from forgetting to eat
at the stated mealtimes. You simmer them carefully,
drain, add cream and pepper,
and amble up and down the stairs,
scooping them up with your fingers right out of the bowl,
talking to yourself out loud.
You'd be surprised if you got an answer,
but that part will come later.
There is so much silence between the words,
you say. You say, The sensed absence
of God and the sensed presence
amount to much the same thing,
only in reverse.
You say, I have too much white clothing.
You start to hum.
Several hundred years ago
this could have been mysticism
or heresy. It isn't now.
Outside there are sirens.
Someone's been run over.
The century grinds on.
Last night as I was sleeping,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that a spring was breaking
out in my heart.
I said: Along which secret aqueduct,
Oh water, are you coming to me,
water of a new life
that I have never drunk?
Last night as I was sleeping,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that I had a beehive
here inside my heart.
And the golden bees
were making white combs
and sweet honey
from my old failures.
Last night as I was sleeping,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that a fiery sun was giving
light inside my heart.
It was fiery because I felt
warmth as from a hearth,
and sun because it gave light
and brought tears to my eyes.
Last night as I slept,
I dreamt—marvelous error!—
that it was God I had
here inside my heart.
Last night I dreamed of chickens,
there were chickens everywhere,
they were standing on my stomach,
they were nesting in my hair,
they were pecking at my pillow,
they were hopping on my head,
they were ruffling up their feathers
as they raced about my bed.
They were on the chairs and tables,
they were on the chandeliers,
they were roosting in the corners,
they were clucking in my ears,
there were chickens, chickens, chickens
for as far as I could see...
when I woke today, I noticed
there were eggs on top of me.
Last night I drove a car
not knowing how to drive
not owning a car
I drove and knocked down
people I loved
...went 120 through one town.
I stopped at Hedgeville
and slept in the back seat
...excited about my new life.
You brothers, who are mine,
Poor people, near and far,
Longing for every star,
Dream of relief from pain,
You, stumbling dumb
At night, as pale stars break,
Lift your thin hands for some
Hope, and suffer, and wake,
Poor muddling commonplace,
You sailors who must live
Unstarred by hopelessness,
We share a single face.
Give me my welcome back.
Translated by James Wright
Submitted by Holt
Last night in the garden I offered you my youth's foaming wine. You
lifted the cup to your lips, you shut your eyes and smiled while
I raised your veil, unbound your tresses, drawing down upon my
breast your face sweet with its silence, last night when the moon's
dream overflowed the world of slumber.
To-day in the dew-cooled calm of the dawn you are walking to
God's temple, bathed and robed in white, with a basketful of
flowers in your hand. I stand aside in the shade under the tree,
with my head bent, in the calm of the dawn by the lonely road to
the temple.
I.
The grey sea and the long black land;
And the yellow half-moon large and low;
And the startled little waves that leap
In fiery ringlets from their sleep,
As I gain the cove with pushing prow,
And quench its speed i' the slushy sand.
II.
Then a mile of warm sea-scented beach;
Three fields to cross till a farm appears;
A tap at the pane, the quick sharp scratch
And blue spurt of a lighted match,
And a voice less loud, thro' its joys and fears,
Than the two hearts beating each to each!
Why should such gloomy silence reign;
And why is all the house so drear,
When neither danger, sickness, pain,
Nor death, nor want have entered here?
We are as many as we were
That other night, when all were gay,
And full of hope, and free from care;
Yet, is there something gone away.
The moon without as pure and calm
Is shining as that night she shone;
but now, to us she brings no balm,
For something from our hearts is gone.
Something whose absence leaves a void,
A cheerless want in every heart.
Each feels the bliss of all destroyed
And mourns the change - but each apart.
The fire is burning in the grate
As redly as it used to burn,
But still the hearth is desolate
Till Mirth and Love with Peace return.
'Twas Peace that flowed from heart to heart
With looks and smiles that spoke of Heaven,
And gave us language to impart
The blissful thoughts itself had given.
Sweet child of Heaven, and joy of earth!
O, when will Man thy value learn?
We rudely drove thee from our hearth,
And vainly sigh for thy return.
i
My spectre around me night and day
Like a wild beast guards my way;
My Emanation far within
Weeps incessantly for my sin.
ii
`A fathomless and boundless deep,
There we wander, there we weep;
On the hungry craving wind
My Spectre follows thee behind.
iii
`He scents thy footsteps in the snow,
Wheresoever thou dost go,
Thro' the wintry hail and rain.
When wilt thou return again?
iv
`Dost thou not in pride and scorn
Fill with tempests all my morn,
And with jealousies and fears
Fill my pleasant nights with tears?
v
`Seven of my sweet loves thy knife
Has bereavèd of their life.
Their marble tombs I built with tears,
And with cold and shuddering fears.
vi
`Seven more loves weep night and day
Round the tombs where my loves lay,
And seven more loves attend each night
Around my couch with torches bright.
vii
`And seven more loves in my bed
Crown with wine my mournful head,
Pitying and forgiving all
Thy transgressions great and small.
viii
`When wilt thou return and view
My loves, and them to life renew?
When wilt thou return and live?
When wilt thou pity as I forgive?'
a
`O'er my sins thou sit and moan:
Hast thou no sins of thy own?
O'er my sins thou sit and weep,
And lull thy own sins fast asleep.
b
`What transgressions I commit
Are for thy transgressions fit.
They thy harlots, thou their slave;
And my bed becomes their grave.
ix
`Never, never, I return:
Still for victory I burn.
Living, thee alone I'll have;
And when dead I'll be thy grave.
x
`Thro' the Heaven and Earth and Hell
Thou shalt never, never quell:
I will fly and thou pursue:
Night and morn the flight renew.'
c
`Poor, pale, pitiable form
That I follow in a storm;
Iron tears and groans of lead
Bind around my aching head.
xi
`Till I turn from Female love
And root up the Infernal Grove,
I shall never worthy be
To step into Eternity.
xii
`And, to end thy cruel mocks,
Annihilate thee on the rocks,
And another form create
To be subservient to my fate.
xiii
`Let us agree to give up love,
And root up the Infernal Grove;
Then shall we return and see
The worlds of happy Eternity.
xiv
`And throughout all Eternity
I forgive you, you forgive me.
As 1000 our dear Redeemer said:
"This the Wine, and this the Bread."'
Night funeral
In Harlem:
Where did they get
Them two fine cars?
Insurance man, he did not pay--
His insurance lapsed the other day--
Yet they got a satin box
for his head to lay.
Night funeral
In Harlem:
Who was it sent
That wreath of flowers?
Them flowers came
from that poor boy's friends--
They'll want flowers, too,
When they meet their ends.
Night funeral
in Harlem:
Who preached that
Black boy to his grave?
Old preacher man
Preached that boy away--
Charged Five Dollars
His girl friend had to pay.
Night funeral
In Harlem:
When it was all over
And the lid shut on his head
and the organ had done played
and the last prayers been said
and six pallbearers
Carried him out for dead
And off down Lenox Avenue
That long black hearse done sped,
The street light
At his corner
Shined just like a tear--
That boy that they was mournin'
Was so dear, so dear
To them folks that brought the flowers,
To that girl who paid the preacher man--
It was all their tears that made
That poor boy's
Funeral grand.
Night funeral
In Harlem.
Night is my sister, and how deep in love,
How drowned in love and weedily washed ashore,
There to be fretted by the drag and shove
At the tide's edge, I lie—these things and more:
Whose arm alone between me and the sand,
Whose voice alone, whose pitiful breath brought near,
Could thaw these nostrils and unlock this hand,
She could advise you, should you care to hear.
Small chance, however, in a storm so black,
A man will leave his friendly fire and snug
For a drowned woman's sake, and bring her back
To drip and scatter shells upon the rug.
No one but Night, with tears on her dark face,
Watches beside me in this windy place.
Now as the train bears west,
Its rhythm rocks the earth,
And from my Pullman berth
I stare into the night
While others take their rest.
Bridges of iron lace,
A suddenness of trees,
A lap of mountain mist
All cross my line of sight,
Then a bleak wasted place,
And a lake below my knees.
Full on my neck I feel
The straining at a curve;
My muscles move with steel,
I wake in every nerve.
I watch a beacon swing
From dark to blazing bright;
We thunder through ravines
And gullies washed with light.
Beyond the mountain pass
Mist deepens on the pane;
We rush into a rain
That rattles double glass.
Wheels shake the roadbed stone,
The pistons jerk and shove,
I stay up half the night
To see the land I love.
Night-night moon
Night-night stars
Night-night noisy
trucks and cars.
Night-night sand box
Night-night toys
Night-night other
girls and boys.
Night-night mom
Night-night dad
Night-night Boogie Man
who's not bad.
It's time to go to sleep now,
most all my night nights said.
Night-night blankie
Night-night bed.
Night. O you whose countenance, dissolved
in deepness, hovers above my face.
You who are the heaviest counterweight
to my astounding contemplation.
Night, that trembles as reflected in my eyes,
but in itself strong;
inexhaustible creation, dominant,
enduring beyond the earth's endurance;
Night, full of newly created stars that leave
trails of fire streaming from their seams
as they soar in inaudible adventure
through interstellar space:
how, overshadowed by your all-embracing vastness,
I appear minute!---
Yet, being one with the ever more darkening earth,
I dare to be in you.
Translated by Albert Ernest Flemming
Gaunt in gloom,
The pale stars their torches,
Enshrouded, wave.
Ghostfires from heaven's far verges faint illume,
Arches on soaring arches,
Night's sindark nave.
Seraphim,
The lost hosts awaken
To service till
In moonless gloom each lapses muted, dim,
Raised when she has and shaken
Her thurible.
And long and loud,
To night's nave upsoaring,
A starknell tolls
As the bleak incense surges, cloud on cloud,
Voidward from the adoring
Waste of souls.
SWIFTLY walk o'er the western wave,
Spirit of Night!
Out of the misty eastern cave,--
Where, all the long and lone daylight,
Thou wovest dreams of joy and fear
Which make thee terrible and dear,--
Swift be thy flight!
Wrap thy form in a mantle grey,
Star-inwrought!
Blind with thine hair the eyes of Day;
Kiss her until she be wearied out.
Then wander o'er city and sea and land,
Touching all with thine opiate wand--
Come, long-sought!
When I arose and saw the dawn,
I sigh'd for thee;
When light rode high, and the dew was gone,
And noon lay heavy on flower and tree,
And the weary Day turn'd to his rest,
Lingering like an unloved guest,
I sigh'd for thee.
Thy brother Death came, and cried,
'Wouldst thou me?'
Thy sweet child Sleep, the filmy-eyed,
Murmur'd like a noontide bee,
'Shall I nestle near thy side?
Wouldst thou me?'--And I replied,
'No, not thee!'
Death will come when thou art dead,
Soon, too soon--
Sleep will come when thou art fled.
Of neither would I ask the boon
I ask of thee, beloved Night--
Swift be thine approaching flight,
Come soon, soon!
The sun descending in the west,
The evening star does shine;
The birds are silent in their nest,
And I must seek for mine.
The moon, like a flower,
In heaven's high bower,
With silent delight
Sits and smiles on the night.
Farewell, green fields and happy groves,
Where flocks have took delight.
Where lambs have nibbled, silent moves
The feet of angels bright;
Unseen they pour blessing,
And joy without ceasing,
On each bud and blossom,
And each sleeping bosom.
They look in every thoughtless nest,
Where birds are covered warm;
They visit caves of every beast,
To keep them all from harm.
If they see any weeping
That should have been sleeping,
They pour sleep on their head,
And sit down by their bed.
When wolves and tigers howl for prey,
They pitying stand and weep;
Seeking to drive their thirst away,
And keep them from the sheep.
But if they rush dreadful,
The angels, most heedful,
Receive each mild spirit,
New worlds to inherit.
And there the lion's ruddy eyes
Shall flow with tears of gold,
And pitying the tender cries,
And walking round the fold,
Saying, 'Wrath, by His meekness,
And, by His health, sickness
Is driven away
From our immortal day.
'And now beside thee, bleating lamb,
I can lie down and sleep;
Or think on Him who bore thy name,
Graze after thee and weep.
For, washed in life's river,
My bright mane for ever
Shall shine like the gold
As I guard o'er the fold.'
There is nothing to be afraid of,
it is only the wind
changing to the east, it is only
your father the thunder
your mother the rain
In this country of water
with its beige moon damp as a mushroom,
its drowned stumps and long birds
that swim, where the moss grows
on all sides of the trees
and your shadow is not your shadow
but your reflection,
your true parents disappear
when the curtain covers your door.
We are the others,
the ones from under the lake
who stand silently beside your bed
with our heads of darkness.
We have come to cover you
with red wool,
with our tears and distant whipers.
You rock in the rain's arms
the chilly ark of your sleep,
while we wait, your night
father and mother
with our cold hands and dead flashlight,
knowing we are only
the wavering shadows thrown
by one candle, in this echo
you will hear twenty years later.
Why didn’t she respond to call?
Was she really facing the wall?
Wanted to move out and roll the ball?
Was I judging it as flicker or miscall?
It was definitely welcome and invite,
Sure suggestion for passion to ignite,
Was I indication for call in dark night?
I was amused but it was alright,
I jumped two steps at a time,
Forgot what was the interest prime,
Surely can’t afford to loose the opportunity,
Everything can wait but not the girl with beauty,
She looked as if fairy came on land,
I wondered whether I can move hand in hand,
She was not ready yet to become friend,
Then why did she waved at as signal send,
I was moving in and out,
I did not feel victory but a rout,
Ready to move with laws flout,
Knew nothing what was it all about?
Where to go and whom to ask?
Seemed to me a difficult task,
Rushed to a friend for simple advice,
He too was same as I was novice,
I remembered saying” nothing is unfair”
Most valuable and treasured gift is love affair,
I thought it as simple and fair,
Fragrance spread and filled the air,
She represented dark as night,
Her thoughts were not good and right,
She embraced me with invitation to ride,
I was shocked and emotions couldn’t hide,
She was whore and I took her as right,
Difficult to come out without fight,
I rushed from the scene and left the sight,
Night seemed to me really dark night
This night, agitated by the growing storm,
how it has suddenly expanded its dimensions--,
that ordinarily would have gone unnoticed,
like a cloth folded, and hidden in the folds of time.
Where the stars give resistance it does not stop there,
neither does it begin within the forest's depths,
nor show upon the surface of my face
nor with your appearance.
The lamps keep swaying, fully unaware:
is our light lying?
Is night the only reality
that has endured through thousands of years?
Translated by Albert Ernest Flemming
after Juan Ramon
A child wakens in a cold apartment.
The windows are frosted. Outside he hears
words rising from the streets, words he cannot
understand, and then the semis gear down
for the traffic light on Houston. He sleeps
again and dreams of another city
on a high hill above a wide river
bathed in sunlight, and the dream is his life
as he will live it twenty years from now.
No, no, you say, dreams do not work that way,
they function otherwise. Perhaps in the world
you're right, but on Houston tonight two men
are trying to change a tire as snow gathers
on their shoulders and scalds their ungloved hands.
The older one, the father, is close to tears,
for he's sure his son, who's drunk, is laughing
secretly at him for all his failures
as a man and a father, and he is
laughing to himself but because he's happy
to be alone with his father as he was
years ago in another life where snow
never fell. At last he slips the tire iron
gently from his father's grip and kneels
down in the unstained snow and unbolts the wheel
while he sings of drinking a glass of wine,
the black common wine of Alicante,
in raw sunlight. Now the father joins in,
and the words rise between the falling flakes
only to be transformed into the music
spreading slowly over the oiled surface
of the river that runs through every child's dreams.
OF him I love day and night, I dream'd I heard he was dead;
And I dream'd I went where they had buried him I love--but he was not
in that place;
And I dream'd I wander'd, searching among burial-places, to find him;
And I found that every place was a burial-place;
The houses full of life were equally full of death, (this house is
now;)
The streets, the shipping, the places of amusement, the Chicago,
Boston, Philadelphia, the Mannahatta, were as full of the dead
as of the living,
And fuller, O vastly fuller, of the dead than of the living;
--And what I dream'd I will henceforth tell to every person and age,
And I stand henceforth bound to what I dream'd;
And now I am willing to disregard burial-places, and dispense with
them;                                                        10
And if the memorials of the dead were put up indifferently
everywhere, even in the room where I eat or sleep, I should be
satisfied;
And if the corpse of any one I love, or if my own corpse, be duly
render'd to powder, and pour'd in the sea, I shall be
satisfied;
Or if it be distributed to the winds, I shall be satisfied.
Oft, in the stilly night,
Ere slumber's chain has bound me,
Fond memory brings the light
Of other days around me;
The smiles, the tears,
Of boyhood's years,
The words of love then spoken;
The eyes that shone,
Now dimm'd and gone,
The cheerful hearts now broken!
Thus, in the stilly night,
Ere slumber's chain hath bound me,
Sad memory brings the light
Of other days around me.
When I remember all
The friends, so link'd together,
I've seen around me fall,
Like leaves in wintry weather;
I feel like one
Who treads alone
Some banquet-hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled,
Whose garlands dead,
And all but he departed!
Thus, in the stilly night,
Ere slumber's chain has bound me,
Sad memory brings the light
Of other days around me.
ON the beach at night alone,
As the old mother sways her to and fro, singing her husky song,
As I watch the bright stars shining--I think a thought of the clef of
the universes, and of the future.
A VAST SIMILITUDE interlocks all,
All spheres, grown, ungrown, small, large, suns, moons, planets,
comets, asteroids,
All the substances of the same, and all that is spiritual upon the
same,
All distances of place, however wide,
All distances of time--all inanimate forms,
All Souls--all living bodies, though they be ever so different, or in
different worlds,
All gaseous, watery, vegetable, mineral processes--the fishes, the
brutes,                                                      10
All men and women--me also;
All nations, colors, barbarisms, civilizations, languages;
All identities that have existed, or may exist, on this globe, or any
globe;
All lives and deaths--all of the past, present, future;
This vast similitude spans them, and always has spann'd, and shall
forever span them, and compactly hold them, and enclose them.
ON the beach, at night,
Stands a child, with her father,
Watching the east, the autumn sky.
Up through the darkness,
While ravening clouds, the burial clouds, in black masses spreading,
Lower, sullen and fast, athwart and down the sky,
Amid a transparent clear belt of ether yet left in the east,
Ascends, large and calm, the lord-star Jupiter;
And nigh at hand, only a very little above,
Swim the delicate brothers, the Pleiades.                          10
From the beach, the child, holding the hand of her father,
Those burial-clouds that lower, victorious, soon to devour all,
Watching, silently weeps.
Weep not, child,
Weep not, my darling,
With these kisses let me remove your tears;
The ravening clouds shall not long be victorious,
They shall not long possess the sky- shall devour the stars only in
apparition:
Jupiter shall emerge- be patient- watch again another night- the
Pleiades shall emerge,
They are immortal- all those stars, both silvery and golden, shall
shine out again,                                             20
The great stars and the little ones shall shine out again- they
endure;
The vast immortal suns, and the long-enduring pensive moons, shall
again shine.
Then, dearest child, mournest thou only for Jupiter?
Considerest thou alone the burial of the stars?
Something there is,
(With my lips soothing thee, adding, I whisper,
I give thee the first suggestion, the problem and indirection,)
Something there is more immortal even than the stars,
(Many the burials, many the days and nights, passing away,)
Something that shall endure longer even than lustrous Jupiter,     30
Longer than sun, or any revolving satellite,
Or the radiant brothers, the Pleiades.
A night that cuts between you and you
and you and you and you
and me : jostles us apart, a man elbowing
through a crowd.       & nbsp;  We won't
&nbs p;         ;     look for each other, either-
wander off, each alone, not looking
in the slow crowd. Among sideshows
& nbsp;     under movie signs,
&nb sp;       &nbs p;     pictures made of a million lights,
&n bsp;       &nb sp;     giants that move and again move
;              again, above a cloud of thick smells,
&n bsp;       &nb sp;     franks, roasted nutmeats-
Or going up to some apartment, yours
&nbs p;         ;     or yours, finding
someone sitting in the dark:
who is it really? So you switch the
light on to see: you know the name but
who is it ?
&n bsp;  But you won't see.
The fluorescent light flickers sullenly, a
pause. But you command. It grabs
each face and holds it up
by the hair for you, mask after mask.
&nbs p;         ;     You  &nb sp;and   you and I   repeat
&n bsp;       &nb sp;       &nbs p;gestures that make do when speech
&nb sp;       &nbs p;     has failed       & nbsp;  and talk
;              and talk, laughing, saying
&nb sp;       &nbs p;     'I', and 'I',
meaning 'Anybody'.
;                 & nbsp;       No one.
1
I move my hand over
slopes, falls, lumps of sight,
Lashes barely able to be touched,
Lips that give way so easily
it's a shock to feel underneath them
The bones smile.
Muffled a little, barely cloaked,
Zygoma, maxillary, turbinate.
2
I put my hand
On the side of your face,
You lean your head a little
Into my hand--and so,
I know you're a dormouse
Taken up in winter sleep,
A lonely, stunned weight.
3
A cheekbone,
A curved piece of brow,
A pale eyelid
Float in the dark,
And now I make out
An eye, dark,
Wormed with far-off, unaccountable lights.
4
Hardly touching, I hold
What I can only think of
As some deepest of memories in my arms,
Not mine, but as if the life in me
Were slowly remembering what it is.
You lie here now in your physicalness,
This beautiful degree of reality.
5
And now the day, raft that breaks up, comes on.
I think of a few bones
Floating on a river at night,
The starlight blowing in a place on the water,
The river leaning like a wave towards the emptiness.
Chatter of birds two by two raises a night song joining a litany of running water--sheer waters
showing the russet of old stones remembering many rains.
And the long willows drowse on the shoulders of the running water, and sleep from much music;
joined songs of day-end, feathery throats and stony waters, in a choir chanting new psalms.
It is too much for the long willows when low laughter of a red moon comes down; and the willows
drowse and sleep on the shoulders of the running water.
Before my bed
there is bright moonlight
So that it seems
Like frost on the ground:
Lifting my head
I watch the bright moon,
Lowering my head
I dream that I'm home.
Ghosts of all my lovely sins,
Who attend too well my pillow,
Gay the wanton rain begins;
Hide the limp and tearful willow.
Turn aside your eyes and ears,
Trail away your robes of sorrow,
You shall have my further years-
You shall walk with me tomorrow.
I am sister to the rain;
Fey and sudden and unholy,
Petulant at the windowpane,
Quickly lost, remembered slowly.
I have lived with shades, a shade;
I am hung with graveyard flowers.
Let me be tonight arrayed
In the silver of the showers.
Every fragile thing shall rust;
When another April passes
I may be a furry dust,
Sifting through the brittle grasses.
All sweet sins shall be forgot;
Who will live to tell their siring?
Hear me now, nor let me rot
Wistful still, and still aspiring.
Ghosts of dear temptations, heed;
I am frail, be you forgiving.
See you not that I have need
To be living with the living?
Sail, tonight, the Styx's breast;
Glide among the dim processions
Of the exquisite unblest,
Spirits of my shared transgressions,
Roam with young Persephone.
Plucking poppies for your slumber . . .
With the morrow, there shall be
One more wraith among your number.
Out in the sky the great dark clouds are massing;
I look far out into the pregnant night,
Where I can hear the solemn booming gun
And catch the gleaming of a random light,
That tells me that the ship I seek
is passing, passing.
My tearful eyes my soul's deep hurt are glassing;
For I would hail and check that ship of ships.
I stretch my hands imploring, cry aloud,
My voice falls dead a foot from mine own lips,
And but its ghost doth reach that vessel, passing, passing.
O Earth, O Sky, O Ocean, both surpassing,
O heart of mine, O soul that dreads the dark!
Is there no hope for me? Is there no way
That I may sight and check that speeding bark
Which out of sight and sound is passing, passing?
Silent, silent night,
Quench the holy light
Of thy torches bright;
For possessed of Day
Thousand spirits stray
That sweet joys betray.
Why should joys be sweet
Used with deceit,
Nor with sorrows meet?
But an honest joy
Does itself destroy
For a harlot coy.
The night-flood rakes upon the stony shore;
Along the rugged cliffs and chalky caves
Mourns the hoarse Ocean, seeming to deplore
All that are buried in his restless waves—
Mined by corrosive tides, the hollow rock
Falls prone, and rushing from its turfy height,
Shakes the broad beach with long-resounding shock,
Loud thundering on the ear of sullen Night;
Above the desolate and stormy deep,
Gleams the wan Moon, by floating mist opprest;
Yet here while youth, and health, and labour sleep,
Alone I wander—Calm untroubled rest,
"Nature's soft nurse," deserts the sigh-swoln breast,
And shuns the eyes, that only wake to weep!
My hand, a little raised, might press a star-
Where I may look, the frosted peaks are spun,
So shaped before Olympus was begun,
Spanned each to each, now, by a silver bar.
Thus to face Beauty have I traveled far,
But now, as if around my heart were run
Hard, lacing fingers, so I stand undone.
Of all my tears, the bitterest these are.
Who humbly followed Beauty all her ways,
Begging the brambles that her robe had passed,
Crying her name in corridors of stone,
That day shall know his weariedest of days -
When Beauty, still and suppliant at last,
Does not suffice him, once they are alone.
The park is filled with night and fog,
The veils are drawn about the world,
The drowsy lights along the paths
Are dim and pearled.
Gold and gleaming the empty streets,
gold and gleaming the misty lake,
The mirrored lights like sunken swords,
Glimmer and shake.
Oh, is it not enought to be
Here with this beauty over me?
My throat should ache with praise, and I
Should kneel in joy beneath the sky.
O, Beauty are you not enough?
Why am I crying after love,
With youth, a singing voice and eyes
To take earth's wonder with surprise?
Why have I put off my pride,
Why am I unsatisfied,--
I for whom the pensive night
Binds her cloudy hair with light,--
I, for whom all beauty burns
Like incense in a million urns?
O, Beauty, are you not enough?
Why am I crying after love?
In the wild soft summer darkness
How many and many a night we two together
Sat in the park and watched the Hudson
Wearing her lights like golden spangles
Glinting on black satin.
The rail along the curving pathway
Was low in a happy place to let us cross,
And down the hill a tree that dripped with bloom
Sheltered us,
While your kisses and the flowers,
Falling, falling,
Tangled in my hair. . . .
The frail white stars moved slowly over the sky.
And now, far off
In the fragrant darkness
The tree is tremulous again with bloom
For June comes back.
To-night what girl
Dreamily before her mirror shakes from her hair
This year's blossoms, clinging to its coils?
415
Sunset at Night—is natural—
But Sunset on the Dawn
Reverses Nature—Master—
So Midnight's—due—at Noon.
Eclipses be—predicted—
And Science bows them in—
But do one face us suddenly—
Jehovah's Watch—is wrong.
SHE lived in storm and strife,
Her soul had such desire
For what proud death may bring
That it could not endure
The common good of life,
But lived as 'twere a king
That packed his marriage day
With banneret and pennon,
Trumpet and kettledrum,
And the outrageous cannon,
To bundle time away
That the night come.
The moon rises. The red cubs rolling
In the ferns by the rotten oak
Stare over a marsh and a meadow
To the farm's white wisp of smoke.
A spark burns, high in heaven.
Deer thread the blossoming rows
Of the old orchard, rabbits
Hop by the well-curb. The cock crows
From the tree by the widow's walk;
Two stars in the trees to the west,
Are snared, and an owl's soft cry
Runs like a breath through the forest.
Here too, though death is hushed, though joy
Obscures, like night, their wars,
The beings of this world are swept
By the Strife that moves the stars.
For those that never know the light,
The darkness is a sullen thing;
And they, the Children of the Night,
Seem lost in Fortune's winnowing.
But some are strong and some are weak, --
And there's the story. House and home
Are shut from countless hearts that seek
World-refuge that will never come.
And if there be no other life,
And if there be no other chance
To weigh their sorrow and their strife
Than in the scales of circumstance,
'T were better, ere the sun go down
Upon the first day we embark,
In life's imbittered sea to drown,
Than sail forever in the dark.
But if there be a soul on earth
So blinded with its own misuse
Of man's revealed, incessant worth,
Or worn with anguish, that it views
No light but for a mortal eye,
No rest but of a mortal sleep,
No God but in a prophet's lie,
No faith for "honest doubt" to keep;
If there be nothing, good or bad,
But chaos for a soul to trust, --
God counts it for a soul gone mad,
And if God be God, He is just.
And if God be God, He is Love;
And though the Dawn be still so dim,
It shows us we have played enough
With creeds that make a fiend of Him.
There is one creed, and only one,
That glorifies God's excellence;
So cherish, that His will be done,
The common creed of common sense.
It is the crimson, not the gray,
That charms the twilight of all time;
It is the promise of the day
That makes the starry sky sublime;
It is the faith within the fear
That holds us to the life we curse; --
So let us in ourselves revere
The Self which is the Universe!
Let us, the Children of the Night,
Put off the cloak that hides the scar!
Let us be Children of the Light,
And tell the ages what we are!
It is cold. The white moon
is up among her scattered stars--
like the bare thighs of
the Police Sergeant's wife--among
her five children . . .
No answer. Pale shadows lie upon
the frosted grass. One answer:
It is midnight, it is still
and it is cold . . . !
White thights of the sky! a
new answer out of the depths of
my male belly: In April . . .
In April I shall see again--In April!
the round and perfects thighs
of the Police Sergeant's wife
perfect still after many babies.
Oya!
The common rain had come again
Slanting and colorless, pale and anonymous,
Fainting falling in the first evening
Of the first perception of the actual fall,
The long and late light had slowly gathered up
A sooty wood of clouded sky, dim and distant more and
more
Until, at dusk, the very sense of selfhood waned,
A weakening nothing halted, diminished or denied or set
aside,
Neither tea, nor, after an hour, whiskey,
Ice and then a pleasant glow, a burning,
And the first leaping wood fire
Since a cold night in May, too long ago to be more than
Merely a cold and vivid memory.
Staring, empty, and without thought
Beyond the rising mists of the emotion of causeless
sadness,
How suddenly all consciousness leaped in spontaneous
gladness,
Knowing without thinking how the falling rain (outside, all
over)
In slow sustained consistent vibration all over outside
Tapping window, streaking roof,
running down runnel and drain
Waking a sense, once more, of all that lived outside of us,
Beyond emotion, for beyond the swollen
distorted shadows and lights
Of the toy town and the vanity fair
of waking consciousness!
I wake up cold, I who
Prospered through dreams of heat
Wake to their residue,
Sweat, and a clinging sheet.
My flesh was its own shield:
Where it was gashed, it healed.
I grew as I explored
The body I could trust
Even while I adored
The risk that made robust,
A world of wonders in
Each challenge to the skin.
I cannot but be sorry
The given shield was cracked,
My mind reduced to hurry,
My flesh reduced and wrecked.
I have to change the bed,
But catch myself instead
Stopped upright where I am
Hugging my body to me
As if to shield it from
The pains that will go through me,
As if hands were enough
To hold an avalanche off.
No engines shrieking rescue storm the night,
And hose and hydrant cannot here avail;
The flames laugh high and fling their challenging light,
And clouds turn gray and black from silver-pale.
The fire leaps out and licks the ancient walls,
And the big building bends and twists and groans.
A bar drops from its place; a rafter falls
Burning the flowers. The wind in frenzy moans.
The watchers gaze, held wondering by the fire,
The dwellers cry their sorrow to the crowd,
The flames beyond themselves rise higher, higher,
To lose their glory in the frowning cloud,
Yielding at length the last reluctant breath.
And where life lay asleep broods darkly death.
Some of us believe
We would have conceived romantic
Love out of our own passions
With no precedents,
Without songs and poetry--
Or have invented poetry and music
As a comb of cells for the honey.
Shaped by ignorance,
A succession of new worlds,
Congruities improvised by
Immigrants or children.
I once thought most people were Italian,
Jewish or Colored.
To be white and called
Something like Ed Ford
Seemed aristocratic,
A rare distinction.
Possibly I believed only gentiles
And blonds could be left-handed.
Already famous
After one year in the majors,
Whitey Ford was drafted by the Army
To play ball in the flannels
Of the Signal Corps, stationed
In Long Branch, New Jersey.
A night game, the silver potion
Of the lights, his pink skin
Shining like a burn.
Never a player
I liked or hated:  a Yankee,
A mere success.
But white the chalked-off lines
In the grass, white and green
The immaculate uniform,
And white the unpigmented
Halo of his hair
When he shifted his cap:
So ordinary and distinct,
So close up, that I felt
As if I could have made him up,
Imagined him as I imagined
The ball, a scintilla
High in the black backdrop
Of the sky.  Tight red stitches.
Rawlings.  The bleached
Horsehide white:  the color
Of nothing.  Color of the past
And of the future, of the movie screen
At rest and of blank paper.
"I could have."  The mind.  The black
Backdrop, the white
Fly picked out by the towering
Lights.  A few years later
On a blanket in the grass
By the same river
A girl and I came into
Being together
To the faint muttering
Of unthinkable
Troubadours and radios.
The emerald
Theater, the night.
Another time,
I devised a left-hander
Even more gifted
Than Whitey Ford:  A Dodger.
People were amazed by him.
Once, when he was young,
He refused to pitch on Yom Kippur.
Ancient night and the unruly salt
beat at the walls of my house.
The shadow is all one, the sky
throbs now along with the ocean,
and sky and shadow erupt
in the crash of their vast conflict.
All night long they struggle;
nobody knows the name
of the harsh light that keeps slowly opening
like a languid fruit.
So on the coast comes to light,
out of seething shadow, the harsh dawn,
gnawed at by the moving salt,
swept clean by the mass of night,
bloodstained in its sea-washed crater.
The night is darkening round me,
The wild winds coldly blow ;
But a tyrant spell has bound me,
And I cannot, cannot go.
The giant trees are bending
Their bare boughs weighed with snow ;
The storm is fast descending,
And yet I cannot go.
Clouds beyond clouds above me,
Wastes beyond wastes below ;
But nothing drear can move me :
I will not, cannot go.
the night I was going to die
I was sweating on the bed
and I could hear the crickets
and there was a cat fight outside
and I could feel my soul dropping down through the
mattress
and just before it hit the floor I jumped up
I was almost too weak to walk
but I walked around and turned on all the lights
and then I went back to bed
and dropped it down again and
I was up
turning on all the lights
I had a 7-year-old daughter
and I felt sure she wouldn't want me dead
otherwise it wouldn't have
mattered
but all that night
nobody phoned
nobody came by with a beer
my girlfriend didn't phone
all I could hear were the crickets and it was
hot
and I kept working at it
getting up and down
until the first of the sun came through the window
through the bushes
and then I got on the bed
and the soul stayed
inside at last and
I slept.
now people come by
beating on the doors and windows
the phone rings
the phone rings again and again
I get great letters in the mail
hate letters and love letters.
everything is the same again.
My voice that is for you the languid one, and gentle,
Disturbs the velvet of the dark night's mantle,
By my bedside, a candle, my sad guard,
Burns, and my poems ripple and merge in flood --
And run the streams of love, run, full of you alone,
And in the dark, your eyes shine like the precious stones,
And smile to me, and hear I the voice:
My friend, my sweetest friend... I love... I'm yours... I'm yours!
Most Holy Night, that still dost keep
The keys of all the doors of sleep,
To me when my tired eyelids close
Give thou repose.
And let the far lament of them
That chaunt the dead day’s requiem
Make in my ears, who wakeful lie,
Soft lullaby.
Let them that guard the hornàed Moon
By my bedside their memories croon.
So shall I have new dreams and blest
In my brief rest.
Fold thy great wings about my face,
Hide day-dawn from my resting-place,
And cheat me with thy false delight,
Most Holy Night.
Look at the stars! look, look up at the skies!
O look at all the fire-folk sitting in the air!
The bright boroughs, the circle-citadels there!
Down in dim woods the diamond delves! the elves'-eyes!
The grey lawns cold where gold, where quickgold lies!
Wind-beat whitebeam! airy abeles set on a flare!
Flake-doves sent floating forth at a farmyard scare! --
Ah well! it is all a purchase, all is a prize.
Buy then! bid then! -- What? -- Prayer, patience, alms, vows.
Look, look: a May-mess, like on orchard boughs!
Look! March-bloom, like on mealed-with-yellow sallows!
These are indeed the barn; withindoors house
The shocks. This piece-bright paling shuts the spouse
Christ home, Christ and his mother and all his hallows.
Lo, it is dark,
Save for the crystal spark
Of a virgin star o'er the purpling lea,
Or the fine, keen, silvery grace of a young
Moon that is hung
O'er the priest-like firs by the sea;
Lo, it is still,
Save for the wind of the hill,
And the luring, primeval sounds that fill
The moist and scented air­
'Tis the truce o' night, away with unrest and care!
Now we may forget
Love's fever and hate's fret,
Forget to-morrow and yesterday;
And the hopes we buried in musky gloom
Will come out of their tomb,
Warm and poignant and gay;
We may wander wide,
With only a wish for a guide,
By heath and pool where the Little Folk bide,
We may share in fairy mirth,
And partake once more in the happy thoughts of earth.
Lo, we may rest
Here on her cradling breast
In the wonderful time of the truce o' night,
And sweet things that happened long ago,
Softly and slow,
Will creep back to us in delight;
And our dreams may be
Compact of young melody,
Just such as under the Eden Tree,
'Mid the seraphim's lullabies,
Eve's might have been ere banished from Paradise.
The binocular owl,
fastened to a limb
like a lantern
all night long,
sees where all
the other birds sleep:
towhee under leaves,
titmouse deep
in a twighouse,
sapsucker gripped
to a knothole lip,
redwing in the reeds,
swallow in the willow,
flicker in the oak -
but cannot see poor
whippoorwill
under the hill
in deadbrush nest,
who's awake, too -
with stricken eye
flayed by the moon
her brindled breast
repeats, repeats, repeats its plea
for cruelty.
In this evil year, autumn comes early...
I walk by night in the field, alone, the rain clatters,
The wind on my hat...And you? And you, my friend?
You are standing- maybe- and seeing the sickle moon
Move in a small arc over the forests
And bivouac fire, red in the black valley.
You are lying- maybe- in a straw field and sleeping
And dew falls cold on your forehead and battle jacket.
It's possible tonight you're on horseback,
The farthest outpost, peering along, with a gun in your fist,
Smiling, whispering, to your exhausted horse.
Maybe- I keep imagining- you are spending the night
As a guest in a strange castle with a park
And writing a letter by candlelight, and tapping
On the piano keys by the window,
Groping for a sound...
- And maybe
You are already silent, already dead, and the day
Will shine no longer into your beloved
Serious eyes, and your beloved brown hand hangs wilted,
And your white forehead split open- Oh, if only,
If only, just once, that last day, I had shown you, told you
Something of my love, that was too timid to speak!
But you know me, you know...and, smiling, you nod
Tonight in front of your strange castle,
And you nod to your horse in the drenched forest,
And you nod to your sleep to your harsh clutter of straw,
And think about me, and smile.
And maybe,
Maybe some day you will come back from the war,
and take a walk with me some evening,
And somebody will talk about Longwy, Luttich, Dammerkirch,
And smile gravely, and everything will be as before,
And no one will speak a word of his worry,
Of his worry and tenderness by night in the field,
Of his love. And with a single joke
You will frighten away the worry, the war, the uneasy nights,
The summer lightning of shy human friendship,
Into the cool past that will never come back.
Translated by James Wright
Submitted by Holt
Athwart the bed
I watch the moonbeams cast a trail
So bright, so cold, so frail,
That for a space it gleams
Like hoar-frost on the margin of my dreams.
I raise my head, --
The splendid moon I see:
Then droop my head,
And sink to dreams of thee --
My Fatherland, of thee!
Swiftly walk o'er the western wave,
Spirit of Night!
Out of the misty eastern cave,
Where, all the long and lone daylight,
Thou wovest dreams of joy and fear,
Which make thee terrible and dear--
Swift be thy flight!
Wrap thy form in a mantle gray,
Star-inwrought!
Blind with thine hair the eyes of day;
Kiss her until she be wearied out,
Then wander o'er city, and sea, and land,
Touching all with thine opiate wand--
Come, long-sought!
When I arose and saw the dawn,
I sighed for thee;
When light rode high, and the dew was gone,
And noon lay heavy on flower and tree,
And the weary day turned to his rest,
Lingering like an unloved guest,
I sighed for thee.
Thy brother Death came, and cried,
Wouldst thou me?
Thy sweet child Sleep, the filmy-eyed,
Murmured like a noontide bee,
Shall I nestle near thy side?
Wouldst thou me?--And I replied,
No, not thee!
Death will come when thou art dead,
Soon, too soon--
Sleep will come when thou art fled;
Of neither would I ask the boon
I ask of thee, beloved Night--
Swift be thine approaching flight,
Come soon, soon!
To slip into your shadow under cover of night.
To follow your footsteps, your shadow at the window.
That shadow at the window is you and no one else;
it's you.
Do not open that window behind whose curtains you're moving.
Shut your eyes.
I'd like to shut them with my lips.
But the window opens and the breeze, the breeze
which strangely balances flame and flag surrounds my escape
with its cloak.
The window opens: it's not you.
I knew it all along.
PRELUDE.
Pleasant it was, when woods were green,
And winds were soft and low,
To lie amid some sylvan scene,
Where, the long drooping boughs between
Shadows dark and sunlight sheen
Alternate come and go;
Or where the denser grove receives
No sunlight from above
But the dark foliage interweaves
In one unbroken roof of leaves,
Underneath whose sloping eaves
The shadows hardly move.
Beneath some patriarchal tree
I lay upon the ground;
His hoary arms uplifted he,
And all the broad leaves over me
Clapped their little hands in glee,
With one continuous sound;-
A slumberous sound,-a sound that brings
The feelings of a dream,-
As of innumerable wings,
As, when a bell no longer swings,
Faint the hollow murmur rings
O'er meadow, lake, and stream.
And dreams of that which cannot die,
Bright visins, came to me,
As lapped in thought I used to lie,
And gaze into the summer sky,
Where the sailing clouds went by,
Like ships upon the sea;
Dreams that the soul of youth engage
Ere Fancy has been quelled;
Old legends of the monkish page.
Traditions of the saint and sage,
Tales that have the rime of age,
And chronicles of Eld.
And, loving still these quaint old themes,
Even in the city's throng
I feel the freshness of the streams,
That, crossed by shades and sunny gleams,
Water the green land of dreams,
The holy land of song.
Therefore, at Pentecost, which brings
The Spring, clothed like a bride,
When nestling buds unfold their wings,
And bishop's-caps have golden rings,
Musing upon many things,
I sought the woodlands wide.
The green trees whispered low and mild,
It was a sound of joy!
They were my playmates when a child
And rocked me in their arms so wild!
Still they looked at me and smiled
As if I were a boy;
And ever whispered, mild and low,
"Come, be a child once more!"
And waved their long arms to and fro,
And beckoned solemnly and slow;
O, I could not choose but go
Into the woodlands hoar;
Into the blithe and breathing air,
Into the solemn wood.
Solemn and silent everywhere!
Nature with folded hands seemed there,
Kneeling at her evening prayer!
Like one in prayer I stood.
Before me rose an avenue
Of tall and sombrous pines;
Abroad their fan-like branches grew,
And, where the sunshine darted throught
Spread a vapor soft and blue,
In long and sloping lines.
And, falling on my weary brain,
Like a fast-falling shower,
The dreams of youth came back again,
Low lispings of the summer rain,
Dropping on the ripened grain,
As once upon the flower.
Visions of childhood!  Stay, O stay!
Ye were so sweet and wild!
And distant voices seemed to say,
"It cannot be! They pass away!
Other themes demand thy lay;
Thou art no more a child!
"The land of Song within thee lies,
Watered by living springs;
The lids of Fancy's sleepless eyes
Are gates unto that Paradise;
Holy thoughts, like stars, arise,
Its clouds are angels' wings.
"Learn, that henceforth thy song shall be
Not mountains capped with snow,
Nor forests sounding like the sea,
Nor rivers flowing ceaselessly,
Where the woodlands bend to see
The bending heavens below.
"There is a forest where the din
Of iron branches sounds!
A mighty river roara between,
And whosoever looks therein,
Sees the heavens all black with sin,-
Sees not ita depths, nor bounds.
"Athwart the swinging branches cast,
Soft rays of sunshine pour;
Then comes the fearful wintry blast;
Our hopes, like withered leaves, fall fast;
Pallid lips say, 'It is past!
We can return no more!'
"Look, then, into thine heart, and write!
Yes, into Life's deep stream!
All forms of sorrow and delight,
All solemn Voices of the Night,
That can soothe thee, or affright,-
Be these henceforth thy theme."
It snowed and snowed ,the whole world over,
Snow swept the world from end to end.
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
As during summer midges swarm
To beat their wings against a flame
Out in the yard the snowflakes swarmed
To beat against the window pane
The blizzard sculptured on the glass
Designs of arrows and of whorls.
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
Distorted shadows fell
Upon the lighted ceiling:
Shadows of crossed arms,of crossed legs-
Of crossed destiny.
Two tiny shoes fell to the floor
And thudded.
A candle on a nightstand shed wax tears
Upon a dress.
All things vanished within
The snowy murk-white,hoary.
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
A corner draft fluttered the flame
And the white fever of temptation
Upswept its angel wings that cast
A cruciform shadow
It snowed hard throughout the month
Of February, and almost constantly
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
traveled through the lost
showered in the mist
purple skies blue
sparks among the ocean
whistles the wind
as the sand twirl
birds fly in the same direction
peeked in the sunset
spot the light
ocean waves slow motion
dolphins speaks
suddenly butterflies in my stomach
tikkles me
the enviroment vanished
as the light seem to get smaller
the ocean wave moves faster
sun falls alseep
awaken the night
butterflies cross the ocean
while im burried in shock
missing you
across the ocean
I am a net and I have to obey what Master says.
I also like to get a rest as the others
But he throws me into the water day & night for a big catch.
What can I do my little fish?
We are eternal foes in this dirty game
----
I am a fish and my Master never allow me to live ashore.
But my question is why people come to sea and catch us?
----
I am the ocean and I watch the sky forever.
Horizon is an illusion and we never met.
* To the author, Ernest Hemingway for his precious novelette 'The old man and the sea'.
Even though we live,
an ocean apart,
somehow gradually,
you have crept into my heart.
Talking to each other nearly every day,
discussing any subject come what may.
To each other,
our innermost secrets we confide,
honest and open, nothing to hide.
Who knows, to where our friendship will lead,
like a flower perhaps It will blossom, and bloom,
from just one little seed.
Tango.
Her right hand
lingers among my poems
collecting words
as a child would
picking up pebbles
her mind
(all seashell & driftwood)
her other hand
hidden behind
the falling waterfall
of her hair
cupped to her
ear
listening to a shell
tell the tale
of an ocean
beyond the ocean
of our minds.
A vista touched by the hand of nature unsurpassed on Earth.
Now my imagination with my words take you to see it‘s worth.
Out into the horizon your eyes will see glorious Waves peaks.
Contained amazement will capture the seashores exquisiteness.
Emerging from the Heavens, the clouds ponder in streaks.
Ages seem to pass but only seconds breach the attractiveness.
Now your mind totally releasing you, unwanted neurotic past.
On the beach the sand so crystalline like, warm to the touch.
As you walk slowly noticing the breeze, anticipating shadows cast.
Stretching palms climb skyward, reaching for the sun so much.
Intellect has no reference during this special time or at this space.
Senses surrounded by glorious beauty feeling peace in this place.
Have you ever sailed on vast ocean,
With no island to see, and things are out of reach?
With dreams and mysteries filled this ocean,
And a never ending faith that someone would teach?
Have you ever felt that feeling,
Of a deep calmness within you that's hard to fight?
And no one could help you believing,
That you're striving for the right?
Did you ever sailed on an ocean,
That further placed upon your heart?
For deeply below this ocean,
Lies a silent whisper, where love starts.
An ocean of Love, the ocean of dreams
Where you can find solace and exceptional truth
Though pain resides even if you don't dream
As the existence of love bears its fruit.
The fruit of harmony, bliss, and wonder
Without the seed that's buried down below
Like a pearl that lies down under
The ocean of love they call, starts hello.
Upon this vast ocean, two souls were me and you
Over the waves and across the surface
I have found a love so true
The ocean of love was then the wondrous place.
An ocean of unseen tears
Pulsing through my veins,
Taking the rightful place of my boiling blood,
Causing my mind, body and soul to flood,
Making my heart chill,
And my emotions quiver,
As I pledge deeper and deeper into that secret filled river.
Flourishing on
Natural contours of land,
Variegating with rainbows,
A continuous river
Flows into his own depths,
An ocean within.
This wordsmith, creator
Of enduring friendship
Throughout the seasons
With insects and birds,
Foliage and flowers, his co-creators
Famed among the constellations.
He - an Alpha Arietis - shines
With his art, evergreen.
Nostalgic melodies
Moisten his eyes.
The smile of a child
Makes him burst into laughter.
He soaks up
The sorrows unsaid
And faces unread.
A self-contained emotinal being.
He puts his signature
On the tablet of wind
Whispering through apertures
Of doors, of cores.
Spreading the magic of affection,
Erasing hatreds from
The slates of mind
And healing wounds
With his balmy libretto,
He consoles the heart.
Though a maverick in
The herds of social climbers,
His deep silence evokes
Wise thoughts.
A translucent rain
Wiping the mist of pain,
He grows
The creepers of camaraderie
In his poetry yards.
His ailing heart,
Varicose legs,
Olden heels
And clay bound feet,
All laborious episodes of
A lifetime drama serial.
Opening new ways
Between conscious and subconscious
My mentor,
Even with increasing age
Holds a bundle of dreams
For me, for all
Death's arrow is aiming at him - He knows
But, still inscribing
The lively poem of existence
By camouflaging himself in words
beautiful and strong.
I know, he will live
And live long.
Can’t wait ‘till I’m gone, can rest in peace
Live forever without the stress and grief
Can’t push my feelings aside, I’ve died inside
No point trying to swim against the rising tide
The constant pressure, I’m under siege
Everyone waiting for me to under achieve
Believe everybody leaves as the days go on
To too many friends I’ve had to say so long
I feel defeated, beaten and filled with sin
Only person in the race and still won’t win
I feel ugly, bored, tired and sick
I want to stop breathing, I’m dying to quit.
A sailor return to an ocean
And always live in our memories
It was a true pleasure
To have known you
Words cannot adequately express
Your dedication and devotion to us
Your kind hearted
Generous spirit
Vibrant sense of humour
Will live forever
Your time will have a lasting impression
Deep witihin all the now broken heart
Of those you touched
You will never escape our heart
It is hard to believe
You are no longer with us
You endured so much for so long
And hugged many hearts
You were such an inspiration
And a gift in our life
We will absolutely miss you
You will rise up like an eagle
Soaring by the power of love
No more suffering and pain
You are now sleeping peacefully
In the arms of smiling angels
You are singing in heaven
May perpetual light shine upon you
I was stubborn by nature and addicted to perfect lines,
fought to the death to find words that startle.
Now in old age my poems flow out freely, the way
flowers and birds forget deep sorrow in spring.
A new water pavilion has been built for fishing with a rod.
I choose to use a bamboo raft instead of a boat.
If only my thoughts were guided by poets Tao and Xie,1
we'd travel and together write poems.
1
As I ebb'd with the ocean of life,
As I wended the shores I know,
As I walk'd where the ripples continually wash you Paumanok,
Where they rustle up hoarse and sibilant,
Where the fierce old mother endlessly cries for her castaways,
I musing late in the autumn day, gazing off southward,
Held by this electric self out of the pride of which I utter poems,
Was seiz'd by the spirit that trails in the lines underfoot,
The rim, the sediment that stands for all the water and all the
land of the globe.
Fascinated, my eyes reverting from the south, dropt, to follow
&nb sp; those slender windrows,
Chaff, straw, splinters of wood, weeds, and the sea-gluten,
Scum, scales from shining rocks, leaves of salt-lettuce, left by the
tide,
Miles walking, the sound of breaking waves the other side of me,
Paumanok there and then as I thought the old thought of likenesses,
These you presented to me you fish-shaped island,
As I wended the shores I know,
As I walk'd with that electric self seeking types.
2
As I wend to the shores I know not,
As I list to the dirge, the voices of men and women wreck'd,
As I inhale the impalpable breezes that set in upon me,
As the ocean so mysterious rolls toward me closer and closer,
I too but signify at the utmost a little wash'd-up drift,
A few sands and dead leaves to gather,
Gather, and merge myself as part of the sands and drift.
O baffled, balk'd, bent to the very earth,
Oppress'd with myself that I have dared to open my mouth,
Aware now that amid all that blab whose echoes recoil upon me I
&n bsp;have not once had the least idea who or what I am,
But that before all my arrogant poems the real Me stands yet
untouch'd, untold, altogether unreach'd,
Withdrawn far, mocking me with mock-congratulatory signs and
bows,
With peals of distant ironical laughter at every word I have written,
Pointing in silence to these songs, and then to the sand beneath.
I perceive I have not really understood any thing, not a single
&nb sp; object, and that no man ever can,
Nature here in sight of the sea taking advantage of me to dart
; upon me and sting me,
Because I have dared to open my mouth to sing at all.
3
You oceans both, I close with you,
We murmur alike reproachfully rolling sands and drift, knowing
&n bsp; not why,
These little shreds indeed standing for you and me and all.
You friable shore with trails of debris,
You fish-shaped island, I take what is underfoot,
What is yours is mine my father.
I too Paumanok,
I too have bubbled up, floated the measureless float, and been
; wash'd on your shores,
I too am but a trail of drift and debris,
I too leave little wrecks upon you, you fish-shaped island.
I throw myself upon your breast my father,
I cling to you so that you cannot unloose me,
I hold you so firm till you answer me something.
Kiss me my father,
Touch me with your lips as I touch those I love,
Breathe to me while I hold you close the secret of the murmuring
I envy.
4
Ebb, ocean of life, (the flow will return,)
Cease not your moaning you fierce old mother,
Endlessly cry for your castaways, but fear not, deny not me,
Rustle not up so hoarse and angry against my feet as I touch you
or gather from you.
I mean tenderly by you and all,
I gather for myself and for this phantom looking down where we
& nbsp;lead, and following me and mine.
Me and mine, loose windrows, little corpses,
Froth, snowy white, and bubbles,
(See, from my dead lips the ooze exuding at last,
See, the prismatic colors glistening and rolling,)
Tufts of straw, sands, fragments,
Buoy'd hither from many moods, one contradicting another,
From the storm, the long calm, the darkness, the swell,
Musing, pondering, a breath, a briny tear, a dab of liquid or soil,
Up just as much out of fathomless workings fermented and thrown,
A limp blossom or two, torn, just as much over waves floating,
drifted at random,
Just as much for us that sobbing dirge of Nature,
Just as much whence we come that blare of the cloud-trumpets,
We, capricious, brought hither we know not whence, spread out
before you,
You up there walking or sitting,
Whoever you are, we too lie in drifts at your feet.
As is the globe embraced by ocean, so
Embraced is earthly life by dreams and fancies.
Night comes unsought, and at the shore's defences
The breakers strike blow after blow.
Their call is loud: they plead and onward urge us...
A magic boat waits in the harbour - we
Are by the tide borne off that round us surges
Into the seas' infinity.
From out the depths the sky stares, strange and boundless,
By  blazing stars in all their glory lit,
And we sail on, the vastness all around us
A fathomless and fiery pit.
At the bottom of the ocean
You will find the coral rief
And the divers
Diving away
What lies beneath the ocean blue,
In depths of mariner's legends?
Where creatures hide in crevices,
And divers get the Bends.
Beneath those stormy seas my friend,
Who knows what you will find?
Some say there may be fish fossils,
Or creepy creatures of a kind.
Yes, down below the murky seas,
Where little plant life grows,
Untouched by rays of warm sunlight,
Where, what lives there, God only knows!
I often wonder what there is,
Beneath the water dark and cold.
Someday, someone will search those depths,
But I am not that bold! !
-A poem by Dee Daffodil  (H.W 1982)
Oh how your eyes prove this life is worth living.
I swear there was a glimpse of the promise land
while I got lost in your gaze. It's a blue that reminds
me of the calm ocean waters. If only we could make eye contact forever...... You have to be the one. I know you are the one.
How vast is the ocean?
I know it is in wide scope
How dangerous this ocean?
A lot and too much chances
To explore, you can be drowned
With the waves you can be nowhere
How deep it could be?
Like the love of yours
How vast, how deep
How blue, how loyal
Deeper, bluer than blue
So I dunk my desolate life into that ocean
Immerse it into utmost contentment
Just to feel that lost pleasing touch
To get the fullness of the bright life
I found it, its deeper in you
Bluer than blue ocean
I enjoy the scenery of bright life
The bubbles of the ocean are
very special to me
because the feeling of
the bubbles between your
toes when you walk by the
the waves as they are crashing onto the shore
reminds me of you and me together on the beach.
when you and I walk so slowly back to my beach house
and at the same time we are holding hands
titly as we walk on the shore
by the crashing bubbly waves.
No wonder I love the bubbly feeling between my toes.
They remind me of the special times we had with each other
on the beach together.
Craig! Craig! my Love irradiant and divine!
Here on the solitary sands I lie
And see afar the lingering sunset die,
As peacefully its fading splendors shine
On western wave and on the eastern pine;
And oh! to watch with thee that flaming sky,
My heart one joy, one sacrament, one cry—
The heart whose very silences are thine!
The glory passes . . . Lo! the moon is up.
Remote and pure, that silvern, ancient cup
From which earth drinks enchantment. Love! to be
Its insubstantial pearl upon thy face!
Ah! dearest! for an hour of thine embrace,
Hushed by the deathless music of the sea!
I’m not the person who walks with you through autumn leaves
In the old park near the school where children play in innocent reverie;
I’m not the man mingling souls with the lady of all his dreams,
But I am the man who desires such things.
I’m the midnight candle that burns for love
Beneath the gentle gaze of the moon,
I’m the prayer spoken upon a pillow
That will softly float into a woman’s room.
My senses will one day all disappear
Into the fragrance of her perfume,
I will be the single teardropp of water
Entering the essence of her ocean for eternity.
Far away on the ocean dreams,
I sailed on my memories' boat
camouflaged by the misty past
and came out with a anecdote.
I found myself into tidal waves
To the twisted turn from my stormy life
With a song or two to face the stroke
I sang my way out of the constant strife...
Put your hand in ocean
And pour all the water in thy palm
Then can you find my love’s limit
Can you find the spark of emotion?
That heats up the soul so calm
What feeling you have I don’t know
But the waves I feel so strong
I can feel them for long
And the first golden ray onto the surface
That gold of my love I present to thee
The waves can send it to you
With my message of hard struggle
O, it is hard to reach the side
And feel the smile of morning
Put both the hands in the waters
And raise them to the sky
You will hide the stars
Find my love in the ocean
And you will feel no limits
Of unbreakable relationship
As of the water and water
As of the horizon and horizon
Waves will pass, waves will come
And our love cannot be exhausted
I'm turbulent
My waves surge to reach out
To the roof of my mind
They crash at the shore
of my restless psyche making me blind
They heave with a passion
In a bid to reach out to my dreams
They immerse you suddenly
And take you in my regimes
They dance and sway
With the natures heartbeat
They resound with echoing love
Travelling with a lightening speed
I'm tranquil
My inner recesses are still
In a stark contrast
I'm vivid blue in daylight
And dark as wine in the night
You can drown
If you dont know how to swim
Or discover new islands
If you learn to float in the brim
I have a breathtaking new world
Living inside that u wouldnt have imagined
Where millions can get immersed
Infinite depth unfathomed
Move aside, Keokra-Dong
Get out of my sight, Tazing-Dong
Let me see the sky-kissing Himalaya.
To be born as a simple Sherpa in Nepal
would have been much better than it is,
both eyes would sparkle with the dream
of conquering the Everest
and in mind
there would be a fulgent fervour
for having honeymoon
on the crest of the mountain...
The ill at ease deride of the Adinath
and the Chandranath
and the unseemly ridicule
hanging from the chin of the Chimbuk
should I stand how longer?
Behold, by swimming on and on
in the turbid water
of the Padma, the Meghna and the Jamuna
die my days and comes the game to an end!
My flippers are hitting
the bed of the swatch-of-no-ground.
Now I want to season my fins
in the Mariana Trench
and expose the verve of my lungs to a trial.
For I want with the exotic posture
of the gangetic dolphin
the whole expanse of the Pacific to the Atlantic
wax all smile, at least for once.
Dip down O Horizon
Let me dye my cataract-clad eyes
with the crimson of your after-glow.
Undo the knot of your sari-end
and grant me leave O mother mine!
For once in the rain-forest of Amazon
let me wash off
the scorching heat of high summer
and forget the legendary cooling air
that the shade beneath the banyan tree offers.
Himalaya, your birth, lineage and
the plate-tectonics of your rise...
I know of all.
Like playing horse-riding
on the back of my maternal grandfather
I would sit astride with ease
over your snobbish ridge
and swish you whopping whack
with a swiping whip.
Beware!
Dare not emit even a neigh,
I enjoin thee-
Let the steed of my sight
galumph on all over the horizon.
Had ocean been my confidant
I'd have given it
All of my truths for safekeeping
Tales i would have written
Of seashells picking girls on beaches
Whose golden bodies were
Like isles of dreamland
But whose fates  were
Like lines drawn in sand.
Had ocean been my confidant
I'd have given it
All my loneliness
I'd have walked with the wind
Clasping its finger in my fist
On distant paths
From whence no one comes back!
Had ocean been my confidant
I'd have given it all my depths
Stepping into its limitless
Blue bosom
I'd have made earth into my bark
Sky into my sails
I'd have made the woeful moment
Of separation
A connecting link between you and me.
Had ocean been my confidant!
(Translated from the original Urdu by Satyapal Anand)
I am like the breeze on the ocean waves
Drinking from the breasts of the afar deep
Flowers from the glistening morning weep
And each of its longing that daybreak craves
Sun shining moods that flow around its spell
Weeping clouds in drifting its moments tears
Coming through the dreaming and the real years
Anything desiring I can't foretell
Rivers that feel the veins of softly earth
While it's going with its flowing rivulet
From side to side dust and its growing lime
Each thinking that catches me in its worth
Allows me to completely forget
What hour comes after this instant in time
Inky gear with million accessories
The - Wisps of clouds
Charismatic Moon
And Celestial bodies.
You dazzle like a jewel
In the shinning carroty sun,
You’re calm and poised
When ornamented by the twinkling stars.
‘You’re the Sky’.
Crystalline drops wetted with effervescence
The - Ebbing and soaring waves
Turbulence and tranquility
Azure brilliance.
I catch the morning light
And sketch the rising sun on me.
I shine, I glow and I feel beautiful
When complimented by the sky.
‘I’m The Ocean’.
I love it when you are in a mischievous mood
It’s when you stir up a breeze - And play with me.
I treasure and hold every pearly tear that you shed
Happy or otherwise - And I consume it.
I love it when you elevate the temperature
It’s then that you evaporate me - And fly me to your abode.
We’re so much like the ‘Ocean and the Sky’ -
Eager to meet,
Complimenting each other,
Sharing Secrets,
Seeming to kiss and embrace.
We’re so much like the ‘Ocean and the Sky’ -
Summiting at the horizon -
Which is a mere apparition.
We touch,
But the touch dosen't reach
Beyond our borders.
(16 September 2006)
Giving or not giving voice to the heretical words...
Understanding that the true love is a scarification.....
For being or not being....
True love inundating the conundrum
Like that sacred river of longing,
Sometimes flowing swiftly through landscapes
Astounding the lurid heart.....
The sound of silence passing...
Passions galvanizing the wounds and pain mares for enduring...
Trying to heal the injury...
Flying gulls beneath the lower bowl, touching the blue waters of the ocean.....
Waves and sad memories  dancing on the golden sand....
Shying away from the  horizon line....
Vessels  screaming and shouting their hearts out....
Swimming across the ocean of red burning coals,
Searching for that  golden threshold.....
The color spectrum giving the  necessary senses to the lights of absolution,
When their senses turn inward.....
Gazing the mountain from the window pane...
From the indoor side of that rain-rinsed windowpane.....
Sitting on that mountain and gazing at the stars....
Birds gliding across, like rainbow rising, spreading their wings, streaming..
Those birds flying in a variety of ways, ranging from gliding to soaring to flapping....
The crystalline steeping slopes of the mountain multi-faces....
Being decorated with climbing ropes, heavenly as seen from above....
And the crystalline waters, steeping cliffs, hidden lakes  and lush forests...
A sign of a divine love...
Understanding that love is like the Earth and the gravity,
Inseparable.....
Groans and moans leading to  mortuaries....
Life is like walking in the middle of the park,
Embracing the crouch air,
Or embracing change by resisting the defensive crouch.....
And going deep into the human system, feeling like being born again....
The smile on the face painting an episode of the past,
Engraving our hearts with golden debris,
Like a golden pyramid, contracting pyramid.....
Generating our consciousness  and chasing away insanity....
Sounds of silence passing...
Being like a  blue ocean...
Dedicated  to Sulaiman Mohd Yusof
You  Time
don't try to hibernate
near my sand shores,
the souls you have pierced
through the needles
write in ink that is black
an epitaph for your memory
a sincere condolence note,
You Time
don't sing that song again
hide not the shadows
behind your wheels.
You standstill time
In wheels from noon to night
you run to reach the same
single point
in that rhythmless tune
don't hang above
my shores like a conqueror
I am ocean
Indian Ocean
November  8,2009
Beaming a Beatle tune, Across the Universe, is a fanciful idea,
It will take 431 years, at the speed of light, to reach the star of the north,
Permission was given by all those involved to NASA,
It will be beamed like satellite television is to today,
Across the Universe will have to be decoded,
I wonder aliens have a company called DISH or DIRECT by the way,
The questions are:
1)    If you are coordinating the target against you what see it's not there,
Since the light that you see left the star back in1577,
Who knows it will be now or in 2438 for that matter.
2)  	Polaris could exploding right now and we would not know it till 2438,
For us now living we would be dead or would we?
(see observation The Top)   We can see it from Heaven.
Carl Sagan wanted to put a CD containing Here Comes the Sun on Voyager,
He was refused permission,
Because the owners of the song,
Thought it would copyright infringement.
The CD gold plated was to show pictures on earth, sounds on earth,
Classical music, various languages,
A repertoire of ethnomusicologistical instrumentation,
Pictures of us earthlings from birth.
The thought of an alien life force taking the song Here Comes the Sun for their own,
Was completely unbearable for APPLE, the publishing company,
Were the aliens a member of ASCAP or BMI?
But hopefully the intelligent life out there would get something good,
Besides all the news about Britney Spears.
(see observation The Ode to TMZ)
If there is life on the planets surrounding Polaris, they may RSVP,
We should get their response back 2880, in about 862 years.
(2-2-2008)
The continent's a tamed ox, with all its mountains,
Powerful and servile; here is for plowland, here is
for park and playground, this helpless
Cataract for power; it lies behind us at heel
All docile between this ocean and the other. If
flood troubles the lowlands, or earthquake
Cracks walls, it is only a slave's blunder or the
natural
Shudder of a new made slave. Therefore we happy
masters about the solstice
Light bonfires on the shore and celebrate our power.
The bay's necklaced with fire, the bombs make crystal
fountains in the air, the rockets
Shower swan's-neck over the night water.... I
imagined
The stars drew apart a little as if from troublesome
children, coldly compassionate;
But the ocean neither seemed astonished nor in awe:
If this had been the little sea that Xerxes whipped,
how it would have feared us.
Submitted by Holt
So the waves move.
We all find our groove.
Some with the silver spoon.
Looking wayward at noon.
Crying baby all in tears.
No milk from MOMS fears.
Love rides the tides of life.
Full of turmoil and wicked strife.
Drunk bar stool tells its story.
Empty words of its glory.
Cry onward plastic fallen.
Calls of the empty stalls.
Mother, ocean of generous love,
Treasure of gentle passion and melody
of one tranquil confluence.
(To mother with love on her Birthday)
Broad sweep of branches, how they dip and swirl.
Contrasting trees, in unison they whirl.
Waves passing through these naked stalwart boughs,
The gale with all its wiles, fair sighs and soughs.
Turbulent sea, the air plying its trade.
Invisible source, always on parade.
Invading, rushing, over and between,
Driving itself, no one can intervene.
It’s just amazing this impressive sight,
Like motion of an ocean, air in flight.
Zephyrs moving fast, buffeting free,
An action viewed with awe, fait accompli.
©   Ernestine Northover
I.
Sweet rural scene!
Of flocks and green!
At careless ease my limbs are spread;
All nature still
But yonder rill;
And listening pines not o'er my head:
II
In prospect wide,
The boundless tide!
Waves cease to foam, and winds to roar;
Without a breeze,
The curling seas
Dance on, in measure, to the shore.
III
Who sings the source
Of wealth and force?
Vast field of commerce and big war:
Where wonders dwell!
Where terrors swell!
And Neptune thunders from his car?
IV
Where? where are they,
Whom Pean's ray
Has touch'd, and bid divinely rave?
What, none aspire?
I snatch the lyre,
And plunge into the foaming wave.
V
The wave resounds!
The rock rebounds!
The Nereids to my song reply!
I lead the choir,
And they conspire
With voice and shell to lift it high;
VI
They spread in air
Their bosoms fair;
Their verdant tresses pour behind.
The billows beat
With nimble feet,
With notes triumphant swell the wind.
VII
Who love the shore,
And they conspire
With voice and shell to lift it high;
Let those adore
The God Apollo, and his Nine,
Parnassus' hill,
And Orpheus' skill;
But let Arion's harp be mine.
VIII
The main! the main!
Is Britain's reign;
Her strength, her glory, is her fleet;
The main! the main!
Be Briton's strain;
As Triton's strong, as Syren's sweet.
IX
Through nature wide,
Is nought descry'd
So rich in pleasure, or surprize;
When all-serene
How sweet the scene!
How dreadful, when the billows rise.
X
And storms deface
The fluid glass
In which ere-while Britannia fair
Look'd down with pride,
Like Ocean's bride,
Adjusting her majestic air.
XI
When tempests cease,
And hush'd in peace
The flatten'd surges smoothly spread
Deep silence keep,
And seem to sleep
Recumbent on their oozy bed;
XII
With what a trance
The level glance,
Unbroken, shoots along the seas!
Whichtempt from shore
the painted oar;
And every canvas courts the breeze!
XIII
When rushes forth
The frowning North
On blackening billows, with what dread
My shuddering soul
Beholds them roll,
And hears their roarings o'er my head!
XIV
With terror mark
Yon flying bark!
Now, center-deep descend the brave;
Now, toss'd on high
It takes the sky,
A feather on the towering wave!
XV
Now, spins around
In whirls profound;
Now, whelm'd; now, pendant near the clouds;
Now, stunn'd, it reels
Midst thunder's peals;
And, now, fierce lightening fires the shrouds.
XVI
All aether burns!
Chaos returns!
And blends once more the seas and skies;
No space between
Thy bosom green,
O Deep! and the blue concave, lies.
XVII
The northern blast,
The shatter'd mast,
The fyrt, the whirlpool, and the rock,
The breaking spout,
the stars gone out,
The boiling sreight, the monsters shock.
XVIII
Let others fear;
To Britain dear
What'er promotes her daring claim;
Those terrors charm,
Which keep her warm
In chace of honest gain or fame.
XIX
The stars are bright
To chear the night,
And shed, through shadows, temper'd fire;
And Phoebus flames
With burnish'd beams,
Which some adore, and all admire.
XX
Are then the seas
Outshone by these?
Bright Thetys! thou art not outshone;
With kinder beams
And softer gleams,
Thy bosom wears them as thy own
XXI
There, set in green,
Gold-stars are seen,
A mantle rich! thy charms to wrap;
And when the sun
His race has run
He falls enamour'd in thy lap.
XXII
Those clouds, whose dyes
Adorn the skies,
That silver snow, that pearly rain;
Has Phoebus stole
To grace the pole,
The plunder of th' invaded main!
XXIII
The gaudy bow,
Whose colours glow,
Whose arch with so much skill is bent,
To Phoebus' ray
Which paints so gay,
By thee the watery woof was lent.
XXIV
In chambers deep,
Where waters sleep,
What unknown treasures pave the floor!
The pearl in rows
Pale lustre throws;
The wealth immense, which storms devour.
XXV
From Indian mines,
With proud designs,
the merchant, swoin, digs golden ore.
The tempests rise,
And seize the prize,
And toss him breathless on the shore.
XXVI
His son complains
In pious strains
"Ah! cruel thirst of gold!" he cries;
Then ploughs the main,
In zeal for gain,
The tears yet swelling in his eyes.
XXVII
Thou watery vast!
What mounds are cast
To bar thy dreadful flowings-o'er?
Thy proudest foam
Must know its home;
But rage of gold disdains a shore.
XXVIII
Gold Pleasure buys;
But Pleasure dies,
Too soon the tross fruition cloys:
Though raptures court,
The sense is short;
But Virtue kindles living joys;
XXIX
Joys felt alone!
Joys ask'd of none!
Which Time's and Fortune's arrows miss;
Joys that subsist,
Though Fates resist,
And unprecarious endless bliss!
XXX
The soul refin'd
Is most inclin'd
To every moral excellence;
All Vice is dull,
A knave's a fool;
And Virtue is the child of Sense
XXXI
The virtuous mind
Nor wave, nor wind,
Nor civil rage, nor tyrant's frown,
The shaken ball
Nor planets fall,
From its firm basis can dethrone.
XXXII
This Britain knows,
And therefore glows
With generous passions, and expends
Her wealth and zeal
On public weal,
And brightens both by godlike ends.
XXXIII
What end so great,
As that which late
Awoke the Genius of the main,
Which towering rose
With George to close,
And rival great Eliza's reign?
XXXIV
A voice has flown
From Britain's throne
To reinflame a grand design;
That voice shall rear
Yon fabrick fair,1
As Nature's rose at the divine.
XXXV
When nature sprung,
Blest angels sung,
And shouted o'er the rising balll;
For strains as high
As main's can fly,
These sea-devoted honours call.
XXXVI
From boisterous seas,
The lap of ease
Receives our wounded and our old;
High domes ascend!
Stretc'd arches bend!
Proud columns swell! wide gates unfold!
XXXVII
So sleeps the grain,
In fostering rain,
And vital beams, till Jove descend;
Then bursts the root!
the verdures shoot!
And earth enrich, adorn, defend!
XXXVIII
Here, soft-reclin'd
From wave, from wind,
And Fortune's tempest safe ashore,
To cheat their care,
Of former war
They talk the pleasing shadows o'er.
XXXIX
In lengthen'd tales,
Our fleet prevails;
In tales the lenitives of age!
And, o'er the bowl,
They fire the soul
Of listening youth, to martial rage.
XL
The story done,
Their setting sun,
Serenely smiling down the West,
In soft decay,
They drop away;
And Honour leads them to their rest.
XLI
Unhappy they!
And falsely gay!
Who bask for ever in success;
A constant feast
Quite palls the taste,
And long enjoyment is distress.
XLII
What charms us most,
Our joy, our boast,
Familiar, loses all its bloss;
And gold refin'd
The fated mind
Fastidious turns to perfect dross.
XLIII
When, after toil,
His native soil
The panting mariner regains
What transport flows
From bare repose!
We reap our pleasure from our pains.
XLIV
Ye warlike slain!
Beneath the main,
Wrapt in a watery winding sheet;
Who bought with blood
Your country's good,
Your country's full-blown glorys greet.
XLV
What powerful charm
Can death disarm?
Your long, your iron slumbers break?
By Jove, by Fame,
By George's name,
Awake! awake! awake!
XLVI
Our joy so proud,
Our shout so loud,
Without a charm the dead might hear:
And see, they rouze!
Their awful brows,
Deep-scar'd, froomm oozy pillows rear!
XLVII
With spiral shell,
Full-blasted, tell
That all your watery realms should sing;
Your pearl-alcoves,
Your coral-groves,
Should echo theirs, and Britain's king.
XLVIII
As long as stars
Guide mariners,
As Carolina's virtues please,
Or suns invite
The ravish'd sight,
The British flag shall sweep the seas.
XLIX
Pecular both!
Our soil's strong growth,
And our bold natives hardy mind;
Sure Heaven bespoke
Our hearts, and oak,
To give a master to minkind.
L
That noblest birth
Of teaming earth,
Of forests fair that daughter proud,
To foreign coasts
Our grandeur boasts
And Britain's pleasure speaks aloud.
LI
Now big with war
Sends Fate from far,
If rebel realms their Fate demand;
Now, sumptuous spoils
Of foreign soils
Pours in the bottom of our land.
LII
Hence, Britain lays
In scales, and weighs
The fates of kingdoms and of kings;
And as she frowns
Or smiles, on crown
A night or day of glory springs.
LIII
Thus Ocean swells
The streams and rills,
And to their borders lifts them high;
Or else withdraws
The mighty cause,
And leaves their famish'd channels dry.
LIV
How mixt, how frail,
How sure to fail,
Is every pleasure of mankind!
A damp destroys
My blooming joys,
While Britain's glory fires my mind.
LV
For who can gaze
On restless seas,
Unstruck with life's more restless state?
Where all are toss'd,
And most are lost
By tides of passion, blasts of fate?
LVI
The world's the main,
How vext! how vain!
Ambition swells, and Anger foams;
May good men find,
Beneath the wind,
A noiseless shore, unruffled homes!
LVII
The public scene
Of harden'd men
Teach me, O teach me to despise!
The world few know
But to their woe,
Our crimes with our experience rise;
LVIII
All tender sense
Is banish'd thence,.
All maiden nature's first alarms;
What shock'd before
Disgusts no more,
And what disgusted has its charms
LIX
In landskips green
True Bliss is seen,
With Innocence, in shades, the sports;
In wealthy towns
Proud labour frowns,
And painted Sorrow smiles in courts.
LX
These scenes untry'd
Seduc'd my pride,
To Fortune's arrows bar'd my breast;
Till Wisdom came,
A hoary dame!
And told me pleasure was in rest.
LXI
"O may I steal
"Along the vale
"Of humble life, secure from foes!
"My friend sincere!
"My judgment clear!
"And gentle business my repose!
She went to water;
she always did.
The heaving ocean
matched her heavy breathing;
it was a Ocean of Tears
like hers.
The swells crash
against the shore
relentlessly;
life was relentless too.
The foam;
Anger in the Water that day.
She went to water
she always did,
moving among the sand dunes,
face against the wind.
The sea gulls overhead;
caw! caw! caw!
She lifts her arms,
the wind blows her sleeves
making a flapping sound;
she could hear whispers
between the breakers,
she could hear weeping
among the retreating waves.
She stood there
on the Edge of Forever.
There is no end to the ocean.
Every day it calls to the Sun
and makes it rise.
.
Every night it extinguishes it.
She could walk to China;
she could
and no one would know;
no one would know.
The voice said
'I thought I would find you here'
Waves crashing
more soothing now
two tracks in the sand.
Sad swells
rise again
and retreat;
time and ocean breaks
bring them back together again.
Calm cool waves my soul to sea
softy how they cling to me.
Afterthoughts gradually drifiting
down the bottom swell the top.
Lauaghter floats back to me.
The fairest Σ ε ι ρ ή ν sings.
Magic hair flowing free lighting
candles in the breeze and with
her beneeth the waves I sleep..
As I Stare out into the Sea,
I can feel the soft oceans breeze
the warmth from the sun
the grass dances with the whistling wind
the ocean is filled with thoughts
and mysteries,
I feel the cool water
the ocean is alive filled with lost souls
washing emotions up onto the shore
My feet sink in the softness of the sand
The ocean is made up of dreams
and achievements,
My mind lies in the heart of the ocean
The rocks are bones
Out in the open the waves settle and
wait for their attack,
I feel as one with the ocean
as the ocean feels like one
with the world.
Like the Ocean kissed The Sky
At the most beautiful place under the sun,
For true love is so hard to find
but we just keep searching
for our soul can be complete
It's in that lovely special place
of bluest of blues which are both under
the sun that gives you so much beauty
It's where the ocean and sky
never ends kissed by the sun over and
over a again.
Our hearts come together to
kiss like the ocean kissed the sky
for our hearts are like two large waves
falling on one another over and over
again.
As i swim and you fly
we will meet at
where the ocean kissed the sky
Your voice is like gentle whispers of the wind
Gently blowing in my ears.
The sun of your smile kisses my skin
And melts all within me.
The waves wrapping around me with warm arms
Gently smoothing the rough edges.
With fingers that caress my body
And feel the inner soul.
My open mind of ocean waves
Opens my heart to see inside.
The gentleness of heart and mind
Washing away all troubled thoughts.
(1-18-2009)
I dive down into the depth of the ocean of forms,
hoping to gain the perfect pearl of the formless.
No more sailing from harbor to harbor with this my weather-beaten boat.
The days are long passed when my sport was to be tossed on waves.
And now I am eager to die into the deathless.
Into the audience hall by the fathomless abyss
where swells up the music of toneless strings
I shall take this harp of my life.
I shall tune it to the notes of forever,
and when it has sobbed out its last utterance,
lay down my silent harp at the feet of the silent.
Orange slice
inside
my mouth
zesty juicy
and
squirting sweetness
from inside out
feeding me more
succulent dreams
streaming out
from luscious
imaginations
hidden behind
invisible lovers
teasing
my heart
till invading
sparkles sit
on the tip
of my tongue
with ripe
bright oranges
I slowly lap up
for more
of the same
reviving delicious
self pleasing
enjoyment on eating
a fruit as deep
as the ocean of lust
Ocean Of Man's Heart
The ocean of man's heart is deep
every now and then it will leak.
The ocean of man's heart is cold
sometimes reaching into his soul.
The ocean of man's heart is sure
sometimes polluted but spirit remains pure.
The ocean of man's heart is clear
playing silently to his inner ear.
The ocean of man's heart is deep
watch out for loves little leaks.
Debbie Wagoner 7/27/09
When one day missing you becomes unbearable
I will seek you out from deep within the ocean of my memories
Walk on the sands of time till it lead me to your sunkissed shores
Where our journey ended and love will once again be reborn
Here i will await your loving heart
I will gaze out across the ocean
Breathe in the winds of hope
Close my eyes and cast the nets of faith once more
Reel in the vision of bygone times
In one precious moment
I shall surrender my soul, my heart, my being
To the rememberance of the fragrance of your body
Rediscovering its secrets
I shall recall the waves to the shore
and bathe blissfully in the ocean of your memories
We shall become one
Dance to the rhythm of our heartbeats
Watch a million butterflies taking flight
Shimmering bubbles floating above us
Watch the sun as it rises and sets in eyes yours and mine
Embrace and behold the beauty of loves tidal wave
Ride the waves of ecstacy
Reaching a crescendo
As each wave of passion hits the shore
and we evanesce into sprays of pearls and water
Ultimately
just another dropp in the ocean of memories
Ocean of poems
I walk along your shore
with a paintbrush and canvas
to recreate a portrait
and not listen your mindless waves
that I know only can tame me
not subjugate me any further
open up your treasures for me
you know sure that I am
genuine in my mind and
I need to paint now your
crimson burnt fusion of
my Sun near your fenced
horizon
let the waves mock for sure
they blemished their rhythm on
all the rocks so strong and
forgot to smile
Ocean, I am as fearless now
the way you are...
©  Rema Prasanna
August 1,2008
As I drift through space alone,
I hear a man yell over the radio,
“It'll be ok! ”
I click the radio off,
Because I know better.
I sigh contently and twist my body slightly
To try and capture this panorama of beauty
In my last minutes.
This is what I have been waiting
My whole life for.
The luminescent sun flares brilliantly,
And the lambent stars glow
Three times as effulgent
Than they ever will
On the clearest, most perfect night.
I start to form constellations in my head.
I even create one of you.
I hear a beep,
And a woman’s robotic
Voice say “low oxygen.”
I don’t care.  My only regret
Is that you aren't here
With me.  My tears start
To stream down my face
As I remember you.
I am so alone.
But now, in this ocean of stars,
I will be with you forever.
An ocean of treasures nurtures
no greed or anger or any such
feelings for the sting rays of
a blazed up sun or for the conspiring
eastern black clouds....
August 6,2009
Ocean I do not want
to fight a battle on
your mighty realm,
no swords in my hands
to flash a spark
at your glowing crown
I am not a gladiator to
fire at you or wage a
war on your domain
I want to light only stars
luminous and crystalline
camphor for incessant fragrance
I want to swing on your
mesmerizing passion
bless me with kindness
to radiate a rhythm that pleases
souls, bless me on my head
I want to praise your tidal waves
allow me to float my little canoe
©  Rema Prasanna
July 30,2008
Ocean, when I walk near you
I do not wear a shield or
arms to guard me
from atropine arrows
from directions where
I placed  roses and lilies
Ocean of verse,
I want to grace you
with idioms as pleasant
you please to hear and
I place near you a
magical box full of
aromatic chamomile...
fumigate me and my heart
to scribble words
to praise you....
give me a few pearls, corals
and don’t tame me
with your violent waves..
©  Rema Prasanna
July 30,2008
While sailing across the wide Indian Ocean,
My stomach queasy, from the rolling motion.
I took a stroll along the upper deck,
A scarf tied loosely around my neck
Looking out over the ever moving sea,
A strange emotion came over me.
What was I doing on this old boat?
It was a wonder that she was still afloat.
I leaned against an old wooden plank,
When all of a sudden my mind went blank.
I found myself floating three feet above my head,
What is this I asked myself am I now dead?
I rose high up into the cloudless sky,
Up and up it was ever so high.
Looking down I could see the small ship upon the sea,
I got frightened and returned promptly to me.
We sailed on to the Port of old Bombay,
Where I caught home an aeroplane I am happy to say.
I will no more sail upon an ocean,
For it fills my heart with strange emotion.
inhaling the ocean breeze and feeling it empty my lungs makes me feel completely intact
i can taste the salt in its entirety on my tongue and i try to scrape it all off with my front teeth
i feel the waves roaring over my heart, liberating it from veins and its arteries, the sea filling the orifices of my organs
the shores stones crowd at my toes and break my skin, but i am cleansed
i stride into the water and it seeps into my nostrils and my intellect becomes infiltrated by the sea, my lungs are suffocated by the wet
and i am completely intact
The ocean flows, loves flows but sometimes the wind ends the flow.
Liquid dusk looking back through me
reflecting back the starlight that catches itself
tangling in droplets of water that freckle your skin
lifting them with my tongue
I taste hope and salt and the glistening sweet smell of you.
When rest my cheek against the bleach-sun shell of your chest
I hear a fluttering sigh and the sound of your breath
is the ocean.
Oh!   Deep  Wide Ocean
You fill my black eyes in blue
Oh!  little waves who drive you
touching the shores beautifully fall back into
and confluence in you!
Big whales and little golden fishes
swim and sweep in you merrily
and I am on shore with endless joy
jump dance and sing
the friendly dophin unbelievable with humour
so high they jump and plunge in you!
How did the colour you reflect with
much delight beautiful bow in the sky
who painted above you
A jealous in me burn and plunge myself in you!
Oh! big ocean who reign you
you are filled with joy and blessed lives
All in you enjoying the freedom
slaveless life May God bless me
I born in you and confluence in you!
Oh! Ocean you are always gifted
you are blessed by thee you are big and wide
Oh! Ocean you are deep and wide! .......
A depth of fantoms
Unknown
With life unable to be
Seen
A vast canvas with colors not made  by
Man
A reflection of things
Above
A peice of life just waiting to be
Seen
Ocean Ocean,
You look so blue,
I can see a creture in you,
Yes the creature I see is a dolphin,
Spraying up water from you.
ocean's pounding surf
reoccuring memories
trying to forget
a sea gull's keen eyes
ocean's stroking ablutions
my daily failings
a forest beckons
across this untainted field
fresh snow innocence
footprints in the snow
wherever your beauty hides
I'll willingly go
waking to your beauty
finding your quiet waters
ecstasy of love
- August 16,2008
Wave after wave,
Each wave
a beat
each beat
repeating
each stretch
receding.
This Earth's old wild heart
beating.
Built from great constellations and long forgotten rivers
I give you my restless poems without regret.
Yes it’s true that I’ve been on the move lately
and have little time to talk.
What can I say
but that from this day forward,
I can only promise you vague dreams
and curious facts.
Yes, I keep moving, thats understood,
but please tell me something,
from which ocean did you arrive,
was it during summer?
or after a winters storm?                                                                                                                      Was the moon out that night?
My restless longing needs to know these things.
My thirst grows toward oblivion;
I need to feel the ocean move towards the shore.
I need to watch the stars so none go missing.
I need to keep learning about roses
and things until I know absolutely nothing at all. Really it’s true,
and it’s not my fault that I live without a compass
and that my love grows wildly in no particular direction.
Will you excuse me now, as I put distance
between you, me and this poem.
Wind Whisked West;
An Undeniable Stretch
Of Realistic Form.
Lightning Strikes Twice,
Revealing The Different
Are The Norm.
Take Cover From the
Storm, One Look At
First Glance Changes
Words to Swords.
It's a Seperate Way Of
Existance,
A Smile Beyond A Smile
Invites Even The
Simplest
Mind Open At Dark
The hot noon sun rises up,
And the dry leaves of the season drop,
Cigarette smoke and the smell of tobacco rise,
And the loud honk of the car cries.
Life is dull in the city streets,
But the freshness lies where the ocean and land meet,
Deep deep inside, A hundred miles down,
Where no god or man wear a precious crown.
The ocean has its own melody as most think its cruel,
But if thy know it well, Thy will then know it wear the most precious jewel,
Poseidon himself bows down to the goddess,
As he knows the beauty and the ever lasting brightness.
Oh my Mistress I bow down to thee,
Your brightness, Light or beauty all shall see,
Through the eyes of my words, They shall now believe,
The beauty of something they negatively perceived.
So...why are my feet dry?
Why ask what I want to see,
Then click the remote on
'Deadliest Catch'?
My love (read that as occupant) ,
Are you convincing me...
If there was just ONE woman
On the jury,
I'd never be convicted?
Why ask what I was doing
With a screwdriver last night...
When your car won't start this
Morning?
Oh. Nuthin...just wire connectors
To the injectors,
Timing chain and intake
Manifold.
Lil sis had two brothers.
Piss me off. Go right ahead.
You ain't seen your transmission
Yet...
Your mechanic will...
OUT of the rolling ocean, the crowd, came a drop gently to me,
Whispering, I love you, before long I die,
I have travel'd a long way, merely to look on you, to touch you,
For I could not die till I once look'd on you,
For I fear'd I might afterward lose you.
(Now we have met, we have look'd, we are safe;
Return in peace to the ocean, my love;
I too am part of that ocean, my love--we are not so much separated;
Behold the great rondure--the cohesion of all, how perfect!
But as for me, for you, the irresistible sea is to separate us,    10
As for an hour, carrying us diverse--yet cannot carry us diverse for
ever;
Be not impatient--a little space--Know you, I salute the air, the
ocean and the land,
Every day, at sundown, for your dear sake, my love.)
i wish i could swim the pacific ocean and back.
and when i came back to sit in front of a burning burning fire
until it dried me to the bone.
and for my skeleton to be hung above your bed
to act as a catcher of your night terrors
and it would work
because you would know that i was magical.
because i swam the whole pacific ocean and back.
for you.
The
Pearl of the ocean
That
Lives deep in the
Portuguese
Ocean
At Sunset,
I Watch
The Great Green Serpent
Of The Sea,
Turning Her Sinuous Body
Beneath The Surface Swells.
Swirling, Writhing In
Sheer Ecstasy,
Flinging Huge Golden Reflections
Of Her Gilded Scales
Onto The Heaving Waves
As They Toss Themselves Joyfully
Onto The Shore.
And As She Twists
Her Metallic Curves,
The Deep Sonorous Roar
Of Her Laughter Is Felt
As Well As Heard,
And The Magical Exchange
Of Sunlight
Between Her
And The Fiery Solar Orb
Is So Magnetic,
So Brilliant,
That We Tiny Lifeforms
May Only Marvel
At The Vastness
Of Mysterious Forces
Which Spin Marvelous Spells And Currents
Around Us All.
Enticing the freedom of the creviced earth
a young woman was fleeing the very
confines of her creature,
when she fell into the orphic mist of a fjord
that led to a blue, blue, ocean.
The seaweed agar, once dried in the sun,
provided her vitamins while the lox
from a tiny spring fed her minerals.
And within the narrow inlet of rock
she kept company with dozens of protected moas
whose feathers mimicked the nacreous of the beautiful shells.
Pierced by sadness and paralyzed in sudden oblivion,
she began to sharpen her wits & sort out contradiction.
Quoining a bed with a type of tinder wedge,
she embarked on the belief: there was life after death.
Ships are homing in for winter harbor
Now the sun is past its evening glow
Far in northern reaches where there's naught
Save endless ice and glaciers and snow.
That great red ball sinks fast 'neath heavy sky,
Rests briefly then retreats into the mist.
When the clouds cast wide their feathered wings
Land and sea become their haziest
The dim light hiding them in such a way
Their captains cannot see the icebergs' ends
Nor where the earth and sea together lie;
All is obscure and all in air suspends.
Like floating phantom ships, they put to sea
Their ghostly forms adrift in salty main
And sometimes in the ocean's vast extremes
Are swallowed up and never seen again.
The daylight is young from the ocean deep
Where earth things come alive in the sunrise,
When the blue from yonder opens and sigh
Awakes to life from a wait and asleep;
The hours from dark from the colors instep
Closer earth songs will be heard in the skies,
When the pretty lives young open its eyes
Music from the wild once again will sweep.
To ears with beauty like never before
The moments so friendly and far underneath,
Lifted and shattered by the breathing gust;
That brought the ocean tide onto the shore,
That comes from the deep dark in the ET
When the waves comes inert in the high boost.
Unto the boundless Ocean of thy beauty
Runs this poor river, charg'd with streams of zeal:
Returning thee the tribute of my duty,
Which here my love, my youth, my plaints reveal.
Here I unclasp the book of my charg'd soul,
Where I have cast th'accounts of all my care:
Here have I summ'd my sighs, here I enroll
How they were spent for thee; look what they are.
Look on the dear expences of my youth,
And see how just I reckon with thine eyes:
Examine well they beauty in my truth,
And cross my cares ere greater sums arise.
Read it, sweet maid, though it be done but slightly;
Who can show all his love, doth love but lightly.
Shall I rebuke thee, Ocean, my old love,
That once, in rage, with the wild winds at strife,
Thou darest menace my unit of a life,
Sending my clay below, my soul above,
Whilst roar'd thy waves, like lions when they rove
By night, and bound upon their prey by stealth!
Yet didst thou n'er restore my fainting health?—
Didst thou ne'er murmur gently like the dove?
Nay, dost thou not against my own dear shore
Full break, last link between my land and me?—
My absent friends talk in thy very roar,
In thy waves' beat their kindly pulse I see,
And, if I must not see my England more,
Next to her soil, my grave be found in thee!
Life is like vast ocean,
Full of sorrow and pain,
Joy less and worry main,
Not to loose hope and energy regain,
To Learn a lesson from each failure,
Content with less and nothing to procure,
Difficulties more but patience to endure,
No immediate result but success is sure,
If life was ever to be smooth,
Who would pray and take oath?
Eat more and carry the weight
Sound sleep and get up late
Life and death are two parts of wheel
failure of any one may makes us to feel
Life may move on and doesn’t come to an end
Pray for success and ways to mend
who understands life but never lament?
No regrets but passing the comment
trying very hard to overcome the shock
Time never stops as clicks the time in clock
Hardship may give you endurance and strength
Will power to withstand and go to any length
No loss of face but to feel at ease,
Success to knock and failure to cease
Stole a starfish
from an ocean
snatched from the bottom
of the sea
making it
into a paperweight
holding down
unruly poems
trying to escape
on a passing breeze.
The ghost of
an ocean
hiding in a shell
so female
Mother of Pearl
whispering
in my ear
the sound
of my own
blood.
We saw the
Deep Ocean
For the first time
Today
And we both wondered
How deep was that ocean?
The iris
dances
unafraid
before the God
of Thunder.
“Perun! ”
the iris sings to him.
“Perunika! ”
he laughs at her.
Here in the magic
ocean of the sky
a thousand mists
clothe their laughter.
*******
Perun is the Slavic God of Thunder and the Iris is his flower...thus Perunika.
It's a beautiful the mistic ocean.
I‘m intoxicating because a unknown mystery.
The Ocean feel as my inside world and
the surf break as drops of water.
The soul was very lonely so came to see a the Ocean's kept a dreamed and
It wanted to be similiar to the Ocean.
The wide the Ocean is the native place of everything life very long time ago.
At the Ocean my mind is easy fall in love if exist person that well suit to me.
I felt the cold weather of life so I came to the Ocean.
Here I seek for that The dream of my soul.
Sometimes the Ocean was melancholy and furious.
It shows to we irdirectly that the various foms of the life
I want eagerly that
always as friend I'll do with Ocean and
permenently I'll live to keep the dream of Ocean.
The waves caress my feet
The sun beams down upon me
And the birds sound ever so sweet
While we
Stare into the atmosphere
Without a care in our hearts
Taking in the air so clear
Observing nature’s beautiful art
I touch your hand
And you smile at me
You lay your head upon the sand
And I giggle happily
The sky is clear
And the wind is pleasant
But night is almost hear
And the day's time is almost spent
We run into the sea
to waste the rest of our time
I wish you could come with me
And always be mine
You walk me home
And then say goodnight
I do not wish to be alone
But you are swiftly gone from my sight
That night my mind
Had oh so many notions
Of you, so many that I began to find
That you made puppet strings of my emotions
And that same connection
That I had with you
I also have with the ocean
The ocean, oh so very blue
I know it to be true
That the ocean sea is blue
I know it to be true
The mountains compliment the ocean
The fountains supplement the ocean
I know it to be true
The ocean is extremely salty
Inhabited by fishes of various faculties
I know it to be true
The ocean is a source of food and minerals
Embellished with floors of pearls, shells and corals
I know it to be true;
That infinite battles have been fought
Across stormy tidal and calmly ocean waves
Where slaves have been sold and bought
With freedom won not merely by a simple handshake
I know it to be true;
That down below is an amazing picture
Of many a wonderful sea creature
That fishermen, endlessly try to capture
What about the water sports being featured?
Swimming, diving, boating, and waterskiing
All written excitingly in the oceans scripture
Still the ocean sometimes doesn’t know how to behave
When they come marching, those ginormous tidal waves!
All those present become a slave to its oceanic graves
And yet I know it to be true
If we shave all the water of the oceans carpet
Living will not be worth it on this planet!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
They went down to the sea in ships,
In ships they went down to the sea.
In boats hewn of oak-tree strips,
In galleys with skin-sewn sails,
In triremes, caravels, brigs—
Frail, flimsily rolling rigs—
They went down where the huge wave rips,
Where the black storm lashes and hales.
They went down to the sea in ships,
To the sounding, sorrowing sea.
They go down to the sea—O me !—
What ships that outbrave the sea,
What ships that outrun the gale,
With a feather of steam for a sail
And a whirling shaft for an oar,
Are the ships that my brothers build
To carry me over the sea,
That my hand with treasures filled
May knock at the morrow's door !
Steel hulls impenetrable
To the waves that tease and pull,
Bright engines that answer the beat
Of their foam-slippered dancing feet,
Hot fires that shudder and drive,
Close-tended, untiring, sure—
Like queen-bees deep in the hive
Who labor and serve and endure:
All these are down below
Far under the slippery water,
While the babe sleeps soft in his bed,
And the banquet table is spread,
And my neighbor's laughing daughter
Trims her hair with a rose-red bow.
They went down to the sea in ships,
In ships they went down to the sea.
And the sea had a million lips
And she laughed in her throat for glee.
And. the floor of the sea was strewn
With tempest trophies dread,
And the deep-sea currents croon
As they wash through the bones of the dead.
But the ships that my brothers build—
Ah, they mock at the storm's mad rage;
And their burning hearts are thrilled
When he throws them his battle gauge.
On the sea-foam they lean for a pillow,
They drive without paddle or sail
Straight over the mountainous billow,
Straight on through the blustering gale !
Oh they shake out gay flags as they run,
Flags that flutter and gleam in the sun!
From the tip of their turrets above
They send news of the storm to the shore;
And they hear from afar through the roar,
Down the cloud-built aisles of the sky,
Some land-bound lady's cry
To her ocean-wandering love.
They go down to the sea in ships,
In ships they go down to the sea.
And my brothers, the masterful, free,
Fear no more the white foam of her lips,
They have won her, she harks to their wooing,
The love of ten thousand years,
The suing, the wild undoing,
The faith unto death, the tears.
Oh, their glory her song shall be;
Soft, soft is the kiss of her lips!
They go down to the sea in ships,
In ships they go down to the sea.
You make me want to sail in the ocean of your eyes.
The winds will carry me, I know not where,
To harbors unknown, and I fully realize
That dangerous storms could be lurking there.
Will the deep blue waters stay pure and serene
On our path to paradise, earthly or above,
Where our joys and passions and moments supreme
Come steadily together to maintain our love.
Will our life's sustaned and rapturous note
Ever remind us to those very fateful skies,
On the day that launched my fragile boat
In that everlasting twinkle, the ocean of your eyes?
The
Ocean
Is
Inside
Of
My
Heart
And
There
Are
Full
Of
Fish
Swiming
Hearing the sound of the ocean roar
The sun shinning on the sea shimmering
Watching the segul's soar
And the sand glimmering
Seeing the crabs scurrying across the sand
Watching the dolphins jump through waves
Holding sea shells in your hands,
And watching the sun set at the end of day.
Everthing is lite up by the moon light
Which makes the ocean beautiful
Gazing into the starry night
And seeing the moon so full
Now the sea creatures are at rest
The ocean is one of natures best!
... Oceanward I am ever yearning,
Where far it rolls in its calm and grandeur,
The weight of mountain-like fogbanks bearing,
Forever wandering and returning.
The skies may lower, the land may call it,
It knows no resting and knows no yielding.
In nights of summer, in storms of winter,
Its surges murmur the self-same longing.
Yes, oceanward I am ever yearning,
Where far is lifted its broad, cold forehead!
Thereon the world throws its deepest shadow
And mirrors whispering all its anguish.
Though warm and blithesome the bright sun stroke it
With joyous message, that life is gladness,
Yet ice-cold, changelessly melancholy,
It drowns the sorrow and drowns the solace.
The full moon pulling, the tempest lifting,
Must loose their hold on the flowing water.
Down whirling lowlands and crumbling mountains
It to eternity tireless washes.
What forth it draws must the one way wander.
What once is sunken arises never.
No message comes thence, no cry is heard thence;
Its voice, its silence, can none interpret.
Yes, toward the ocean, far out toward ocean,
That knows no hour of self-atonement!
For all that suffer release it offers,
But trails forever its own enigma.
A strange alliance with Death unites it,
That all it give Him,--itself excepting!
I feel, vast Ocean, thy solemn sadness,
To thee abandon my weak devices,
To thee let fly all my anxious longings:
May thy cool breath to my heart bring healing!
Let Death now follow, his booty seeking:
The moves are many before the checkmate!
Awhile I'll harass thy love of plunder,
As on I scud 'neath thy angry eyebrows;
Thou only fillest my swelling mainsail,
Though Death ride fast on thy howling tempest;
Thy billows raging shall bear the faster
My little vessel to quiet waters.
Ah! Thus alone at the helm in darkness,
By all forsaken, by Death forgotten,
When sails unknown far away are wafted
And some swift-coursing by night are passing,
To note the ground-swell's resistless current,
The sighing heart of the breathing ocean --
Or small waves plashing along the planking,
Its quiet pastime amid its sadness.
Then glide my lingering longings over
Into the ocean-deep grief of nature,
The night's, the water's united coldness
Prepares my spirit for death's dark dwelling.
Then comes day's dawning! My soul bounds upward
On beams of light to the vault of heaven;
My ship-steed sniffing its flank is laving
With buoyant zest in the cooling billow.
With song the sailor to masthead clambers
To clear the sail that shall swell more freely,
And thoughts are flying like birds aweary
Round mast and yard-arm, but find no refuge.  ...
Yes, toward the ocean! To follow Vikar!
To sail like him and to sink as he did,
For great King Olaf the prow defending!
With keel unswerving the cold thought cleaving,
But hope deriving from lightest breezes!
Death's eager fingers so near the rudder,
While heaven's clearness the way illumines!
And then at last in the final hour
To feel the bolts and the nails are yielding
And Death is pressing the seams asunder,
That in may stream the absolving water!
Wet winding-sheets shall be folded round me,
And I descend to eternal silence,
While rolling billows my name bear shoreward
In spacious nights 'neath the cloudless moonlight!
They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters, these see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep.
~ Psalm cvii. 23, 24.
HE that in venturous barks hath been
A wanderer on the deep,
Can tell of many an awful scene,
Where storms for ever sweep.
For many a fair, majestic sight
Hath met his wandering eye,
Beneath the streaming northern light,
Or blaze of Indian sky.
Go! ask him of the whirlpool's roar,
Whose echoing thunder peals
Loud, as if rushed along the shore
An army's chariot wheels;
Of icebergs, floating o'er the main,
Or fixed upon the coast,
Like glittering citadel or fane,
'Mid the bright realms of frost;
Of coral rocks, from waves below
In steep ascent that tower,
And fraught with peril, daily grow,
Formed by an insect's power;
Of sea-fires, which at dead of night
Shine o'er the tides afar,
And make th' expanse of ocean bright
As heaven, with many a star.
Oh God! thy name they well may praise,
Who to the deep go down,
And trace the wonders of thy ways,
Where rocks and billows frown.
If glorious be that awful deep,
No human power can bind,
What then art Thou, who bidst it keep
Within its bounds confined!
Let heaven and earth in praise unite,
Eternal praise to Thee,
Whose word can rouse the tempest's might,
Or still the raging sea!
Sitting by the water
On the docks
Watching the fish
Leap from the water
Plopping lightly into the deep ocean
Sinking and swimming
I keep thinking about him
Wishing he was by my side
Holding my hand in his
With the pink and blue sky in the distance
Reflecting in his eyes
Upon the crest of a wave I see
hidden memories held within.
New ones created, from every bough
on every ship, that travels bound
for some new pasture.
Such hope and yet such loss,
is the ocean's promise.
It's force men think can be tamed.
Yet that is what the ocean
wants you to believe.
It can bite and snap,
or it can be calm and cool.
A million promises made,
and broken upon it's shores.
A billion memories made
and broken, lying on it's floors.
The ocean is natures untameable force.
(C)  Victoria Elizabeth Hughes September 2005
The ocean said to me once,
"Look!
Yonder on the shore
Is a woman, weeping.
I have watched her.
Go you and tell her this --
Her lover I have laid
In cool green hall.
There is wealth of golden sand
And pillars, coral-red;
Two white fish stand guard at his bier.
"Tell her this
And more --
That the king of the seas
Weeps too, old, helpless man.
The bustling fates
Heap his hands with corpses
Until he stands like a child
With a surplus of toys."
To the solemn sea the old women come
With their shawls knotted around their necks
With their fragile feet cracking.
They sit down alone on the shore
Without moving their eyes or their hands
Without changing the clouds or the silence.
The obscene sea breaks and claws
Rushes downhill trumpeting
Shakes its bull's beard.
The gentle old ladies seated
As if in a transparent boat
They look at the terrorist waves.
Where will they go and where have they been?
They come from every corner
They come from our own lives.
Now they have the ocean
The cold and burning emptiness
The solitude full of flames.
They come from all the pasts
From houses which were fragrant
From burnt-up evenings.
They look, or don't look, at the sea
With their walking sticks they draw signs in the sand
And the sea erases their calligraphy.
The old women get up and go away
With their fragile bird feet
While the waves flood in
Traveling naked in the wind.
Unhappy about some far off things
That are not my affair, wandering
Along the coast and up the lean ridges,
I saw in the evening
The stars go over the lonely ocean,
And a black-maned wild boar
Plowing with his snout on Mal Paso Mountain.
The old monster snuffled, "Here are sweet roots,
Fat grubs, slick beetles and sprouted acorns.
The best nation in Europe has fallen,
And that is Finland,
But the stars go over the lonely ocean,"
The old black-bristled boar,
Tearing the sod on Mal Paso Mountain.
"The world's in a bad way, my man,
And bound to be worse before it mends;
Better lie up in the mountain here
Four or five centuries,
While the stars go over the lonely ocean,"
Said the old father of wild pigs,
Plowing the fallow on Mal Paso Mountain.
"Keep clear of the dupes that talk democracy
And the dogs that talk revolution,
Drunk with talk, liars and believers.
I believe in my tusks.
Long live freedom and damn the ideologies,"
Said the gamey black-maned boar
Tusking the turf on Mal Paso Mountain.
Submitted by Holt
Oh, Ocean!  You mighty Ocean!
Why you've so much of passion,
For this globe, you hug, so tight,
To erode this land, left and right?
Who tailored you so well,
To suit your level as you swell,
As you keep this earth afloat,
For the sake of our comfort?
Mighty rivers into you flow,
Their surplus waters, row by row,
Still they quench not your thirst,
Nor take the heat off your breast.
You own a rich seabed,
Yet you've tears to shed,
That sink into the darkest clouds,
To fall back into thirsty rivers.
You maintain, in depth, silence,
Also make your shore full of noise,
With your endless roaring waves,
That ebb and tide, across.
All the sands the rivers dump,
Never let your level go up,
Nor all the heat, let by the sun,
Push your level down.
Your wavy fingers touch my feet,
To kindle my feelings, in retreat,
Little I guess o'er your submission,
Perhaps, an act of your veneration.
You are still growing in timeless age,
With full of treasures for pillage,
O'er the loss of riches, you never grieve,
But give this earth all you've.
Could this earth, ever green be,
Sans your mercy and glee,
While you swallow the heat of the sun,
To cool the breeze for every one.
You build this beach, sand by sand,
With your mile long wavy hand,
For us to sit and watch you do,
Restless in your coat of blue.
A silver coat, you borrow from the moon,
To thrill the hearts and minds of men,
To enchant a pair of love birds,
Deep into their merry dreamlands.
Your corridors obey Godmens' will,
To save their men from kill,
The brunt of wars, you silently bore,
Harboring all the frigates ashore.
Your crowning glory lies near the poles,
Where you play different roles,
Also far below unfathomable depth,
Where one is sure of facing death.
In your empire, is there any explosion,
In the size of fish population,
Also of other countless creatures,
That live in your roofless shelters?
You mind not our dirty pollution,
But give us your full protection,
Besides food, water and occupation,
In the cross country trade and communication.
Millions of years I may need,
Your books for me to read,
And cover all the pages,
That have surpassed many ages.
Ocean, if you were to give, a measure, a ferment, a fruit
of your gifts and destructions, into my hand,
I would choose your far-off repose, your contour of steel,
your vigilant spaces of air and darkness,
and the power of your white tongue,
that shatters and overthrows columns,
breaking them down to your proper purity.
Not the final breaker, heavy with brine,
that thunders onshore, and creates
the silence of sand, that encircles the world,
but the inner spaces of force,
the naked power of the waters,
the immoveable solitude, brimming with lives.
It is Time perhaps, or the vessel filled
with all motion, pure Oneness,
that death cannot touch, the visceral green
of consuming totality.
Only a salt kiss remains of the drowned arm,
that lifts a spray: a humid scent,
of the damp flower, is left,
from the bodies of men. Your energies
form, in a trickle that is not spent,
form, in retreat into silence.
The falling wave,
arch of identity, shattering feathers,
is only spume when it clears,
and returns to its source, unconsumed.
Your whole force heads for its origin.
The husks that your load threshes,
are only the crushed, plundered, deliveries,
that your act of abundance expelled,
all those that take life from your branches.
Your form extends beyond breakers,
vibrant, and rhythmic, like the chest, cloaking
a single being, and its breathings,
that lift into the content of light,
plains raised above waves,
forming the naked surface of earth.
You fill your true self with your substance.
You overflow curve with silence.
The vessel trembles with your salt and sweetness,
the universal cavern of waters,
and nothing is lost from you, as it is
from the desolate crater, or the bay of a hill,
those empty heights, signs, scars,
guarding the wounded air.
Your petals throbbing against the Earth,
trembling your submarine harvests,
your menace thickening the smooth swell,
with pulsations and swarming of schools,
and only the thread of the net raises
the dead lightning of fish-scale,
one wounded millimetre, in the space
of your crystal completeness.
Where are the hapless shipmen?--disappeared,
Gone down, where witness none, save Night, hath been,
Ye deep, deep waves, of kneeling mothers feared,
What dismal tales know ye of things unseen?
Tales that ye tell your whispering selves between
The while in clouds to the flood-tide ye pour;
And this it is that gives you, as I ween,
Those mournful voices, mournful evermore,
When ye come in at eve to us who dwell on shore.
It's thou dawning horizon
That dots the first sindhur
Lambent on earth's crinion
Bubbling with waving freshener
It's thee in morn tide light
Bumpy-bumpy-busy wavering-
Over a pretext for a breakfast
As if it is earth-heaven's wedding
It's thee on slumbering nap
With bellyful salty food and aqua
Under sunny shade in a wavy trap
As if feasted in meridian awe
Plentiful thee, in plentiful harmony
For plentiful people along the border
Thou rollers in tender melody-
Seems a warm evening wedding- splendour
And thee! why so awful
In sunless hours in spumy fear?
Sembling a human life frightful
Waves of life lap an eternal beach
each one taking on its form
from moon and stars and sun
each wave a single wave of life
born of the one same ocean
and infinitesimally shaping the coastline
of an unseen continent
as they rise and fall
on an endless beach.
Waves of life playing as they dance
and meet and merge
and running, race for the shore
where it seems they are no more.
But their mark remains
on that eternal distant land
unseen by mortal eyes
the waves that carry the human race
to a far off distant place
that never leaves or departs
from the still innermost point
in each and every heart.
Watch the years play out their course
as on the last day of natures year
it endeth here with celebrations
never just for the past
but looking towards the path
to reach that distant shore at last.
When the sun sets over the ocean
when the moon begins to rest
she sits at the ocean’s beach
its red cloak disappears in the west.
Each evening she yearns for its beauty
the feeling cannot be surpassed
she wishes its elegance would prevail
but like a ship it lowers its mast.
Soon she’ll be as one with the sunset
the sickness has taken its toll
the thought of resting in its magnificence
lulls her heart and soul
Dedicated to Debbie Wherland
The great white waves of the Pacific how loudly they do roar
And crash against the volcanic rocks that guard the ocean shore
The silver gulls above the beach are calling as they fly
And the terns dive in shallow waters for small sea things from the sky,
The feeling is so refreshing on your skin saltwater spray
'Tis nice to be by the ocean on a breezy Autumn day
In a place far off of the highway and far  from the noisy street
A place where Nature reign Supreme where the land and ocean meet
The huge surf waves are rolling foamy and white as snow
At the awesome power of Nature my wonder only grow
Though not a seafaring person from land I love to watch the big waves roll
It has been a watery grave for many an ocean out of control
Where the land meets the ocean on a March evening in the Fall
A memory for to cherish and in the future to recall.
Wings over the ocean
Footprints in the sand.
Quiet voices in the softest breeze
Feet balancing on land.
Gentle thoughts and gestures
No voyage as yet planned.
Wings over the ocean
Then soaring o'er dry land.
Your eyes are like a ocean,
Your hiar is the waves that lift the ocean,
Your heart is the core of the animal ocean that feels it up with love for the lovely ocean
Your ful of emotion for your own ocean
Your smile just lights the ocean
By the night it calm and quite even the oceans getting so bright by the day and soul is quite
You will be mine tonight
Me and you can sit by the ocean and you are so close to a ocean as I can get and I love you just like a ocean me and you toghether and the ocean's  flour will be your blanket for you.
Swimming away
swimming away
swimming away yeah
swimming through the deep blue ocean
nothing but red skies ahead
so put on ya hat and sun screen lotion
Feel the wind and waves in motion
Let's go swimming in your mind's ocean
The waters so calm
And the breeze so sweet
No cause for alarm
From my head to my feet
My mind was a cell
Trapped by illusion
Until the rough swell
Destroyed my delusions
Swimming away
swimming away
Swimming away
In your mind's ocean
wake up in the water
before you sink below
For the deeper you go
The darker it grows
so put on ya hat and sun screen lotion
Feel the wind and waves in motion
Let's go swimming in your mind's ocean
Thoughts of doom and no hope
I'll drop them in the ocean's deep
To save my mind when I grope
I'm Dead to the world in this cool sleep
Not a soul in sight
Not a worry in the world
Just the open sea
Where I can simply be
Swimming away
Swimming away
we'll swim all night
And sleep all day
so put on ya hat and sun screen lotion
Feel the wind and waves in motion
Lets go swimming
Lets go Swimming
in your mind's ocean
14/11. Paris
14/11 another fine day in Portugal to wake up for but the news
from Paris turned the sky grey and the sun a spent cartridge
cooling in the body of a man in a café, beer, wine and blood.
Allah Akbar, god the great and merciful, what a horrible irony
in the streets of deaths.
I walked in the sunlight that unashamedly shone on a day of dread
and it warmed my cold face and somewhere in Paris a man sits
outside and plays “Imagine” on a piano it is heart -breaking and I`m
filled with conflicting feeling anger and trying to understand what
is impossible to grasp.
I fear the backlash and the fascist demagogues who can use the shock
to their political goal and they will be believed by an incensed mob,
Arabs will be killed for belonging to Semitic tribe that have suffered
unbelievable bad luck that never seems to end.
Adieu, Paris, ville de fer,
Ville de vent, ville de rêve,
Cher Paris où l’amour se lève,
Doux Paris où j’ai tant souffert !
Et le train file, file, file,
Comme un éclair en pleine nuit…
Mon cœur fait encor plus de bruit,
Mon cœur qui n’est jamais tranquille.
Voici, sous la lune de mai,
La plaine qu’on dit pittoresque,
La verte combe où j’ai ri presque,
La colline où j’ai presque aimé.
L’histoire est-elle vraie ou fausse ?
Suis-je un bon, un mauvais témoin ?
Qu’importe ? – Voici déjà loin
Les mornes plaines de la Beauce.
Puis rien. – Du noir, du noir partout,
Noir dans le ciel et sur la terre,
Noir surtout au cœur solitaire,
Gonflé de rage et de dégoût.
Et le train file et le train vole
Avec ses gros yeux qui font peur,
Le train file à toute vapeur
Comme une bête à moitié folle.
Un vent mauvais semble frémir
Dans les verdures qu’on effleure ;
J’entends comme une âme qui pleure…
Mon Dieu ! si je pouvais dormir ?
Toujours, toujours, toujours la bête
Aux crocs baveux, aux flancs repus !
Toujours ces mots interrompus
Qui s’entrechoquent dans ma tête !
Les lourds pays indifférents
Montrent un coin de leur visage ;
La tristesse du paysage
Répond à mes rêves errants.
– Mais qu’est-ce ? – On dirait de la joie.
Tout n’ait donc pas mort encor.
Un trait rose, une barre d’or,
Et l’infini rit et flamboie.
Ce bleu tendre, ce bleu divin !
Qu’ai-je vu ? C’est la mer immense
Où tout finit et recommence,
Que nul jamais n’invoque en vain.
O consolatrice du monde !
Puissante mer, ô grande mer !
Si j’ai quelque chose d’amer,
Qu’il se noie en ton eau profonde !
Dame de sange et de langueur,
Ensorceleuse de la brume,
Ce n’est que dans ton amertume
Que je pourrai laver mon cœur !
BEAUTIFUL Paris! morning star of nations!
The Lucifer of cities, lifting high
The beacon blaze of young democracy!
Medina and Gomorrha both in one
Medina of a high and holy creed
To be developed in a coming time!
Gomorrha, rampant with all vice and guilt
Luxurious, godless, grovelling, soaring Paris,
Laden with intellect, and yet not wise
Metropolis of satire and lampoon,
Of wit, of elegance, of mirth, of song,
And fearful tragedies done day by day,
Which put our hair on end in the open streets
The busy hive of awful memories,
The potent arbiter of popular will,
The great electric centre whence the shocks
Of pulsing freedom vibrate through tbe world-
Beautiful Paris! sacred to our hearts,
With all thy folly, all thy wickedness-
If but for Bailly, Vergniaud, Gensonne,
And noblest Roland, she of Roman soul,
And the great patriots and friends of man
Who went to death for holy liberty-
Lift up thy voice, O Paris! once again,
And speak the thought that labours in thy breast;
Shake off thy gauds and tinsels-be thyself;
Cease thy lewd jests, and heartless revelries,
Thy adoration of all worthless things,
Thy scorn, thy sarcasm, and thy unbelief;
And in the conflict and the march of men
Do justice to thy nature, and complete
The glorious work, so gloriously begun
By the great souls of pregnant eighty-nine.
Come forth, oh, Paris! freed from vice and stain,
Like a young warrior dallying too long
With loving women, wasting precious hours
In base delights and enervating sloth;
Who, when he shakes them off, puts back his hair
From his broad brow, and places on his head
The plumed helmet-throws his velvets off.
And swathes his vigorous limbs in glancing steel.
To lead true hearts to struggle for mankind.
Or if no more, Soldier of Liberty!
Thou 'lt lead the nations-stand upon the hill,
And, like a prophet, preach a holy creed
Of freedom, progress, peace, and happiness;
And all the world shall listen to thy voice,
And Tyranny, hyaena big with young,
Dreading the sound, shall farrow in affright.
And drop, still-born, her sanguinary cubs,
And many a bloody feud be spared mankind.
Poland again, with desperate grasp, shall seize
The neck of her enslaver, and extort
Full justice from his terror; Hungary,
Ermined and crown'd, shall sit in her own seat
In peaceful state and sober majesty;
And Italy, unloosening her bonds
By her strong will, shall be at last the home
Of broadly based and virtuous liberty,
And in her bosom nuture evermore,
Not the fierce virtues of her Roman youth,
But the calm blessings of her later time
Science, and art, and civilizing trade,
Divine philosophy, diviner song,
And true religion reconciled with man.
Speak out, O Paris! purify thyself
By noble thoughts, and deeds will follow them.
The world has need of thee. Humanity
Droops for thy dalliance with degraded things,
Alien, and most unworthy of the soul
That sleeps within thee. Rouse thyself, O Paris!
The time expects thee. Pyrenees, and Alps,
And Appenines, and snow-clad Balkans, wait,
With all their echoes, to repeat the words
Which thou must utter! Thou hast slumber'd long
Long dallied. Speak! The world will answer thee!
It was the Paris feeling of it all
assaulting my senses
as I slumbered and dreamed
on imagined European time
White noise buzzed
with sophisticated speak
clicking on cobblestone
to Chanel boutique snobbery
As the Eiffel Tower loomed large
drenching the city in warmed light
my dreams paused, to images of home
longing for Lady Liberty, a fine french gift
Scents of the city of lights cling tightly
lavender, roses and mint leaves
hurry me back to my imagined luxury
dreaming of the Hotel Le Bristol Paris
The french sandman sprinkles gold dust
here in no man's land, dream world central
still safe and sound in my trance
the time ticks and I continue to float
I notice the pace of the country
no rat race rules, or impossible schedules
they march to a different beat
cafe's, wine, and enjoying life
As I begin to slowly wake
and find my way through this foggy haze
my final image of Paris in my dream
is a speeding car, hitting the thirteenth pillar
in the Alma tunnel.
Some things are never forgotten.
Autumn sliped into Paris yesterday,
came silently down Boulevard St Michel,
In sultry heat, past boughs sullen and still,
and met me on its way.
As I walked on to where the Seine flows by,
little twig songs burned softly in my heart,
smoky, odd, sombre, purple songs. I thought
they sighed that I shall die.
Autumn drew abreast and whispered to me,
Boulevard St Michel that moment shivered.
Rustling, the dusty, playful leaves quivered,
whirled forth along the way.
One moment: summer took no heed: whereon,
laughing, autumn sped away from Paris.
That it was here, I alone bear witness,
under the trees that moan.
Sneaking through the back alleys
Their evil intentions muted
Uzis ready in their hands
Their minds full of hate
Sons of terror struck
Swollen with innocent blood
Walls were dripping with fresh paint
A new portrait of terror appeared
Paraded in the streets of Paris
By the fanatical servants of terror
The peaceful night ripped apart
By the flood of innocent blood
That painted the streets red
In a midnight exhibition of terror
The bleeding Graffiti in Paris
Alas! The city of love and fine arts,
the city of romantic lovely hearts,
where in the bosom is a pink rose flower,
the amazing and enchanting Eiffel Tower,
the blue perfume of Evening in Paris,
the winds feel proud on dancing in Paris
where art promotes love,  peace and romance,
where one is free to sing and dance,
where couples forget all their fears,
where coral smiles can wipe the tears,
wherever I look I see beauty-abundance,
smiling colors and dancing fragrance,
that inspire the brush, that inspire the pen,
who are the extremists, are they men?
What's their faith, do they believe in ethics,
No, they're satanic tools, in fact,
I can only condemn, that's how I react!
Strong extreme speed, that the brain hurries with,
Further than trees, and hedges, and green grass
Whitened by distance,—further than small pools
Held among fields and gardens,—further than
Haystacks and windmill-sails and roofs and herds,—
The sea's last margin ceases at the sun.
The sea has left us, but the sun remains.
Sometimes the country spreads aloof in tracts
Smooth from the harvest; sometimes sky and land
Are shut from the square space the window leaves
By a dense crowd of trees, stem behind stem
Passing across each other as we pass:
Sometimes tall poplar-wands stand white, their heads
Outmeasuring the distant hills. Sometimes
The ground has a deep greenness; sometimes brown
In stubble; and sometimes no ground at all,
For the close strength of crops that stand unreaped.
The water-plots are sometimes all the sun's,—
Sometimes quite green through shadows filling them,
Or islanded with growths of reeds,—or else
Masked in grey dust like the wide face o' the fields.
And still the swiftness lasts; that to our speed
The trees seem shaken like a press of spears.
There is some count of us:—folks travelling-capped,
Priesthood, and lank hard-featured soldiery,
Females (no women), blouses, Hunt, and I.
We are relayed at Amiens. The steam
Snorts, chafes, and bridles, like three-hundred horse,
And flings its dusky mane upon the air.
Our company is thinned, and lamps alight:
But still there are the folks in travelling-caps—
No priesthood now, but always soldiery,
And babies to make up for show in noise,
Females (no women), blouses, Hunt, and I.
Our windows at one side are shut for warmth;
Upon the other side, a leaden sky,
Hung in blank glare, makes all the country dim,
Which too seems bald and meagre,—be it truth,
Or of the waxing darkness. Here and there
The shade takes light, where in thin patches stand
The unstirred dregs of water.
Hunt can see
A moon, he says; but I am too far back.
Still the same speed and thunder. We are stopped
Again, and speech tells clearer than in day.
Hunt has just stretched to tell me that he fears
I and my note-book may be taken for
The stuff that goes to make an “émissaire
De la perfide.” Let me abate my zeal:
There is a stout gendarme within the coach.
This cursed pitching is too bad. My teeth
Jingle together in it; and my legs
(Which I got wet at Boulogne this good day
Wading for star-fish) are so chilled that I
Would don my coat, were not these seats too hard
To spare it from beneath me, and were not
The love of ease less than the love of sloth.
Hunt has just told me it is nearly eight:
We do not reach till half-past ten. Drat verse,
And steam, and Paris, and the fins of Time!
Marry, for me, look you, I will go sleep.
Most of them slept; I could not—held awake
By jolting clamour, with shut eyes; my head
Willing to nod and fancy itself vague.
Only at Stations I looked round me, when
Short silence paused among us, and I felt
A creeping in my feet from abrupt calm.
At such times Hunt would jerk himself, and then
Tumble uncouthly forward in his sleep.
This lasted near three hours. The darkness now
Stayeth behind us on the sullen road,
And all this light is Paris. Dieu merci.
PARIS. Saturday Night, 29.
Send me, dear William, by return of post,
As much as you can manage of that rhyme
Incurred at Ventnor. Bothers and delays
Have still prevented me from copying this
Till now; now that I do so, let it be
Anticipative compensation.
Numéro 4 Rue Geoffroy Marie,
Faubourg Montmartre, près des Boulevards.
Dear William, labelled thus the thing will reach.
DER teufel's los in Bal Mabille,
Dere's hell-fire in de air,
De fiddlers can't blay noding else
Boot Orphee aux Enfers:
Vot makes de beoples howl mit shoy?
Da capo - Bravo! - bis!!
It's a Deutscher aus Amerika:
Hans Breitmann in Paris.
Dere's silber toughts vot might hafe peen,
Dere's golden deeds vot must:
Der Hans ish come to Frankenland
On one eternal bust.
Der same old rowdy Argonaut
Vot hoont de same oldt vleece,
A hafin all de foon dere ish-
Der Breitmann in Paris.
Mit a gal on eider shoulder
A holdin py his beard,
He tantz de Cancan, sacrament!
Dill all das Volk vas skeered.
Like a roarin hippopatamos,
Mit a kangarunic shoomp,
Dey feared he'd smash de Catacombs,
Each dime der Breitmann bump.
De pretty liddle cocodettes
Lofe efery dings ish new,
'D'ou vient il donc ce grand M'sieu?
O sacre nom de Dieu!'
In fain dey kicks deir veet on high,
And sky like vlyin geese,
Dey can not kick de hat afay
From Breitmann in Paris.
O vhere vas id der Breitmann life?
Oopon de Rond Point gay,
Vot shdreet lie shoost pehind his house?
La rue de Rabelais.
Aroundt de corner Harper's shtands
Vhere Yankee drinks dey mill,
Vhile shdraight ahet, agross de shdreet,
Der lies de Bal Mabille.
Id's all along de Elysees,
Id's oop de Boulevarce,
He's sampled all de weinshops,
Und he's vinked at efery garce.
Dou schveet plack-silken Gabrielle,
O let me learn from dee,
If 'tis in lofe - or absinthe drunks,
Dat dis wild ghost may pe?
Und dou may'st kneel in Notre Dame,
Und veep away dy sin,
Vhile I go vight at Barriere balls,
Oontil mine poots cave in;
Boot if ve pray, or if ve sin-
Vhile nodings ish refuse,
Tis all de same in Paris here,
So long ash l'on s'amuse.
O life, mein dear, at pest or vorst,
Ish boot a vancy ball,
Its cratest shoy a vild gallop,
Vhere madness goferns all.
Und should dey toorn ids gas-light off,
Und nefer leafe a shbark,
Sdill I'd find my vay to Heafen - or-
Dy lips, lofe, in de dark.
O crown your het mit roses, lofe!
O keep a liddel sprung!
Oonendless wisdom ish but dis:
To go it vhile you're yung!
Und Age vas nefer coom to him,
To him Spring plooms afresh,
Who finds a livin' spirit in
Der Teufel und der Flesh.
Energized
by the scent of mesmerized women of a south sea shore,
men went to that shore
and mesmerized the women the more.
They emitted more scent,
energizing the men the more,
and drawing more and more men to the shore.
Some took their scent to France,
where their mastery at erotics
made Paris
northern limit
and capital city
of the Tropics.
Somewhere in Paris
A quaint café.
Quiet and  soundless
A starry night
The city it  sleeps
The Frenchmen await
A small revolution
Tonight
Somewhere in Paris
A quaint cafe
Waiting for change
Dawn of a day.
I be awerkin' at fixin' dinner,
and my man, he be awerkin' in the fields,
and well, I just startin' inta dreamin'
'bout me a-dancin' in Paris.
I be wearin' sparkly shoes with high, skinny
heels, and one o' them slinky gowns. I'm a-drinkin'
that bubbly stuff outin' a one-legged glass.
Lotsa good-lookin' men be astin' me ta dance.
Then my man comes home, clumpin' in muddy
boots, his shirt and pants dirty and dusty.
He be a mess! Ceptin' his eyes-they be warm
'n brown like new-plowed fields, and his voice
be like a river a-flowin', so deep and smooth.
'Dinner ready yet, sugar bun? '
His hand touches my hair right gentle-
like the breeze of a summer night a-mussin'
the leaves o' the willer tree. 'Long about then,
my heart feels like velvet cushins be a-pressin'
agin' it. Well, I startin' inta thinkin'...
who wants ta be dancin' in Paris anyhow?
December Paris
Winter Paris pavement cafés vacant chairs and poor sparrows look for
baguette crumbs. Artists had gone to their loft conversions, in bed with
their models and plates of goose liver pate, waiting for a better time.
I came across a posh bistro people inside wore silk suits, doors locked;
invitation only. A famous philosopher came out, said something deep
about peace- in broken English- then asked where the camera was.
When he saw I wasn’t a journalist he said: Merde, and walked back in.
At the bookshop Shakespeare, academic tourists had assembled they
looked through books of famous writers, thought of saying that two of
my poetry collections were there, but they looked so educated, wore
capes of superiority and poetry workshop shoes I lost my nerve. Rain,
found a bistro at a side street, had coffee with an Armagnac, thought
of the days when Ernest Hemingway scribbled away here, other writers
too, when Paris was not so haughtily conscious of her artistic status.
DEEP SEA IN LONDON AND PARIS also PARIS
ARE HOMER  AND THE NAME OF FLOWERS NEED NEW NAME
FOR  DECEMBER AND MY LOVELY GIRL-LADY OF LOVE
WITHOUT WASTE TIME INTO DUSK OF NYMPHS OF THE
SEAS HOW LOVE IN PACIFIC OCEAN
WAEL  MOREICHEH
in london dreams
i saw time
a pearl, not so rounded
buried in the sand of beach
whisperingly, waiting...
for no tomorrow
<><><><><><><><><><><><>
in paris dreams
i saw time
a golden_breast woman
the perfume of her mouth
was coming from...
a sweet heavenly orange
<><><><><><><><><><><><>
in moscow dreams
i saw time
a hat, rising from snow
fighting against all fire
just to remain cold...
on the head of yesterday
<><><><><><><><><><><><>
à la nuit tombante
L'Occident était blanc, l'Orient était noir ;
Comme si quelque bras sorti des ossuaires
Dressait un catafalque aux colonnes du soir,
Et sur le firmament déployait deux suaires.
Et la nuit se fermait ainsi qu'une prison.
L'oiseau mêlait sa plainte au frisson de la plante.
J'allais. Quand je levai mes yeux vers l'horizon,
Le couchant n'était plus qu'une lame sanglante.
Cela faisait penser à quelque grand duel
D'un monstre contre un dieu, tous deux de même taille ;
Et l'on eût dit l'épée effrayante du ciel
Rouge et tombée à terre après une bataille.
My mother was much sensitive to cleanliness,
She was fond of perfumes and fragrant flowers,
She was famous for her kindness,
And hard works, in the suns and showers
She loved all children, particularly her own,
She was fond of sweets and ice-creams,
She was married at an age, not much grown,
She remained a girl with teen aged dreams.
She liked melodies and fine arts,
She was fond of fictions and movies in the hall,
Knitting, stitching and cooking, her crafts.
My father a contrast to her at all.
After working whole day, since early morning,
Restless lady took some rest mid day,
A shower and change of dress, in the evening,
The small blue bottle of perfume, for the tired clay!
(I still feel fragrance of “Evening in Paris”, a perfume in a small blue bottle)
The sun, a glass marble shines on innocense.
I lie in short grass, looking into the future.
The moon- a shiny biscut covers the clouds.
And midnight bleeds into childhood dreams..
The watch hands turn into a foreign country.
The war passed, I standown in rags.
Looking thru the back glass of a Rambler Station Wagon.
Childhood dreams escape as the dust.
I smell Evening in Paris.
The wrinkles in skin and shirt pressed by time.
I lie in short grass, looking into the past.
his mind sandwiched
between the bodies
and chocolates
the men lost in two worlds
chocolates and
bodies
tongue in cheek
the chocolates on the
women's bodies
ramping up
sweetness of the ladies
chocolate
In France (to baffle thieves and murderers)
A journey takes two days of passport work
At least. The plan's sometimes a tedious one,
But bears its fruit. Because, the other day,
In passing by the Morgue, we saw a man
(The thing is common, and we never should
Have known of it, only we passed that way)
Who had been stabbed and tumbled in the Seine,
Where he had stayed some days. The face was black,
And, like a negro's, swollen; all the flesh
Had furred, and broken into a green mould.
Now, very likely, he who did the job
Was standing among those who stood with us,
To look upon the corpse. You fancy him—
Smoking an early pipe, and watching, as
An artist, the effect of his last work.
This always if it had not struck him that
'Twere best to leave while yet the body took
Its crust of rot beneath the Seine. It may:
But, if it did not, he can now remain
Without much fear. Only, if he should want
To travel, and have not his passport yet,
(Deep dogs these French police!) he may be caught.
Therefore you see (lest, being murderers,
We should not have the sense to go before
The thing were known, or to stay afterwards)
There is good reason why—having resolved
To start for Belgium—we were kept three days
To learn about the passports first, then do
As we had learned. This notwithstanding, in
The fullness of the time 'tis come to pass.
I'm hot
Your not
I got
You dont
The polecat, sovereign of its native wood,
Dashes damnation upon bad and good;
The health of all the upas trees impairs
By exhalations deadlier than theirs;
Poisons the rattlesnake and warts the toad
The creeks go rotten and the rocks corrode!
She shakes o'er breathless hill and shrinking dale
The horrid aspergillus of her tail!
From every saturated hair, till dry,
The spargent fragrances divergent fly,
Deafen the earth and scream along the sky!
Removed to alien scenes, amid the strife
Of urban odors to ungladden life
Where gas and sewers and dead dogs conspire
The flesh to torture and the soul to fire
Where all the 'well defined and several stinks'
Known to mankind hold revel and high jinks
Humbled in spirit, smitten with a sense
Of lost distinction, leveled eminence,
She suddenly resigns her baleful trust,
Nor ever lays again our mortal dust.
Her powers atrophied, her vigor sunk,
She lives deodorized, a sweeter skunk.
Fauvist moon smooth like Newton
Relative without warning
Nothing shall stop the coming cubes
Ulysses talks a new language
Sate painters in café haven
Change the motif of dragons
Avengers of amethyst poetry
Language of the future laughs
Choreographed in splinters of war
Stravinsky dances without melody
Gertrude Stein sighs like a panther
Art fornicates with Paris
Form relinquishes like deco stars
Boundaries melt into stage sets
Embrace the modern deluge
Freedom and choice celebrate
Boundless sea of color
Surrealism tides of the Mediterranean
Chagall, Matisse, Picasso, Braque
Cezanne was a great forest
Time has spoken like a canvass
All are blessed and punished
Some walk the left bank still
Seine River flows forever
The ghost of Paris haunts us all
LATE: a cold smear of sunlight bathes the room;
The gilt lime of winter, a sun grown melancholy old,
Streams in the glass. Outside, ten thousand chimneys fume,
Looping the weather-birds with rings of gold;
The spires of Paris, pricked in an iron spume,
Uprise like stars of water, and mail the sky.
Night comes: the wind is cold.
La Mouche has lit the candles, cleared up the mess.
She is talking, this merry little girl, of the new clown,
Mercutio in red spots, and Miss Nellie, the Equine Princess,
Who can ride three terrible horses upside-down . . . .
'Mon dieu, quelle cirque!' . . . and Madame Stephanie's dress..
'As true as I live' . . . the clear little voice trickles on,
All over the Circus, on and on, and all over the town.
Now she has creaked downstairs. Heine is left alone,
Knees hugged in bed, the drug purring in his brain,
And the windows turning blue. He can see some clouds being blown,
Scraping their big, soft bellies on the pane:
'Take me, O Clouds!'—but in a puff they've flown.
So once they fled in Eighteen Twenty-Nine
From—Hamburg, was it?—in a damp disdain . . . .
Hamburg—those roofs of tulip-red, those floating trees,
Those black masts clotting the air, and swart cigars,
And puffed old bankers panting along the quays,
And Uncle Solomon shouting amongst the spars,
And Uncle Solomon's cargoes, coffee and cheese,
And Uncle Solomon's face, like a copper moon,
And Uncle Solomon's daughter, and the stars, the stars.
O, Hamburg and Amalie—the stars and dung—
He remembered suddenly that night he stood below,
Dark in the street, with stinging heart and helpless tongue,
And her face passed in the pane, like paper to and fro.
But in a thousand songs that song was never sung.
Amalie, Amalie, who was only a foaming of thought,
A thing thought of, and forgotten, long ago.
And Louise, Diana, and Jenny, and all those bright,
Mad girls who had scrawled their names inside his mind—
All vanished, all gone; and all of them forged in a night,
Conspired of dreams, and leaving no dream behind,
Ungrateful for their dreaming—flight after flight
Of musings wrapped in satin, fancies in silk,
And a thousand thoughts of naked roses and milk,
By love and the moon designed.
But now it seemed that these were only one thought,
One stone of Venus, cut with a hundred sides,
One girl revealed ten thousand times, and caught
Ten thousand times from out those amorous tides.
Now she was gone. They were all gone, those girls that he had sought,
All gone, or paunched in marriage, or crushed in graves,
Or promised for other men's brides.
And it was only a ghost's hair that had spilt,
Fur of the night, in kissing dark and strange,
To choke his lips. And all of those worlds he'd built,
The girls he'd conjured before his dreams took mange,
The rogues he'd stamped on, harlot, trollop, and jilt,
The fools he'd blistered—all of them passed and forgotten;
But that—that did not change.
Men crumbled, man lived on. In that animal's face,
'Twas but a squirt aimed at the moon, to fling contempt.
Meyerbeer, Borne, and Klopstock vanished, but in their place
New Klopstocks, Meyerbeers blown again, and Bornes undreamt,
Sprang up like fungi, and there remained no trace
Of lashings past. Men, men he could flog for ever,
But man was still exempt.
That did not change—always the world remained,
Breathing and sleeping; loving and taking in love;
Fighting and coupling; life by the belly constrained,
Stupid in roads of flesh; eating, but never enough;
Ravening, never to cease; warring, but nothing gained;
Babbling to silent Christs; climbing to heavens of the brain
Unknown, unanswering, above.
All these remained, words passed. The paper he'd filled,
Deep to the lips in bitter salt, with fury and tears,
No man remembered; anger and fools were stilled
In dust alike—and out of those roaring years,
What now was left of all the passion he'd spilled,
The fire he'd struck? A cadence or two of love,
A song that had stroked men's ears.
All wrong, all wasted. Now, in this winter snow,
In the black winds from Russia, and the printed mane of night,
Heine looked out, and gazed at the world below,
Thick with old chemicals, breaking far out of sight
With ageless tides of man—ah, granite flow,
Eternal, changeless flux of humanity,
Undying darkness and light!
Not treading those floods could save him—not striking stone,
Not damning the world could serve—only to fly,
Careless of men and their shouting—untouched—alone—
Snatched by his own gods from a falling sky,
And singing his own way—clutching his own, his own,
Blind to the world—yes, that was the road of Heine—
Up to the sun, solitary, a speck in the ether—
'Ha, now, Christ Jesus and Jehovah, I choose to die!'
His eyes, from looking at the passing iron bars
have tired and no images will hold
he feels as if there were a thousand bars
albeit behind them no reality at all.
The supple grace of lightly treading steps
endless gyrations of the smallest kind
a dance of strength encircling a core
which holds, subdued and numb a mighty will.
Brief moments when the pupil's curtains slide
an image passes, silently, inside
goes through the quiet of the body's lissome limbs
and finds its final rest inside the creature's heart.
I'll buy you a bagel
on the Trocadero square
and you will say:
Why not a little?
I'll give you a pendant with
the motif of the Eiffel Tower
and you will say:
Why not a little?
I'll tell you to keep yourself
where are you going at night
because this is a dangerous city
and you will say again:
Why not a little?
But when you're on Pigalle
in the middle of the night
I buy hot chestnuts
you'll throw them out of your hand
because they are hot and you will say:
I am happy that I am little.
7.2.2012.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Nisam mala (Paris)
Kupiću ti đevrek
na trgu Trokadero
i reći ćeš:
Zašto, nisam mala?
Pokloniću ti privjesak sa
motivom Ajfelove kule
i reći ćeš:
Zašto, nisam mala?
Rećiću ti da paziš
kuda ideš noću
jer je ovo opasan grad
a ti ćeš opet reći:
Zašto, nisam mala?
Ali kad ti na Pigalu usred noći
kupim vruće kestenje
bacaćeš ih iz ruke u ruku
jer su vreli i rećićeš:
Radujem se što sam mala.
Homes reach the stars, the sky's below,
The land in smoke to it is near.
Inside the big and happy Paris
Remains the secretive despair.
The evening boulevards are noisy,
Gone are the sundown's final rays,
And there are couples everywhere
Trembling of lips, daring of eyes.
I'm here alone. To trunk of chestnut
It is so nice one's head to lean!
And like in the abandoned Moscow
In heart weep verses of Rostand.
Paris at night is sad and alien,
Dear to the heart is madness gone!
I'm going home, there's vial of sorrow
And tender portrait of someone.
There's someone's glance, sad and fraternal.
There's tender profile on the wall.
Rostand and the Reichstadtian martyr
And Sara - in sleep come they all!
Within the big and happy Paris
I dream of grass, of clouds and rain
And laughter far, and shadow near,
And deep just like before is pain.
Don't talk to me of love. I've had an earful
And I get tearful when I've downed a drink or two.
I'm one of your talking wounded.
I'm a hostage. I'm maroonded.
But I'm in Paris with you.
Yes I'm angry at the way I've been bamboozled
And resentful at the mess I've been through.
I admit I'm on the rebound
And I don't care where are we bound.
I'm in Paris with you.
Do you mind if we do not go to the Louvre
If we say sod off to sodding Notre Dame,
If we skip the Champs Elysées
And remain here in this sleazy
Old hotel room
Doing this and that
To what and whom
Learning who you are,
Learning what I am.
Don't talk to me of love. Let's talk of Paris,
The little bit of Paris in our view.
There's that crack across the ceiling
And the hotel walls are peeling
And I'm in Paris with you.
Don't talk to me of love. Let's talk of Paris.
I'm in Paris with the slightest thing you do.
I'm in Paris with your eyes, your mouth,
I'm in Paris with... all points south.
Am I embarrassing you?
I'm in Paris with you.
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
Nobody knows where my 50 cent has gone
But I danced left and right the same time
Why was he holding his mike
When the part is to be mine
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
Then all my 50 Cent Jams kept people dancing all night
But leave me alone for a while
'Til 50 cent is dancing with me
I've got no reason to smile
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
50 cent and his boys just walked thru the door
Like a King and his page
Oh what a Super Bowl surprise
When he said “Get the F%#k off of my stage”
It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to
You would cry too if it happened to you
Oh-oh-oh It's my party and I'll cry if I want to
Cry if I want to, cry if I want to.....
2-5-2008
Je suis un pâle enfant du vieux Paris, et j'ai
Le regret des rêveurs qui n'ont pas voyagé.
Au pays bleu mon âme en vain se réfugie,
Elle n'a jamais pu perdre la nostalgie
Des verts chemins qui vont là-bas, à l'horizon.
Comme un pauvre captif vieilli dans sa prison
Se cramponne aux barreaux étroits de sa fenêtre
Pour voir mourir le jour et pour le voir renaître.
Ou comme un exilé, promeneur assidu,
Regarde du coteau le pays défendu
Se dérouler au loin sous l'immensité bleue,
Ainsi je fuis la ville et cherche la banlieue.
Avec mon rêve heureux j'aime partir, marcher
Dans la poussière, voir le soleil se coucher
Parmi la brume d'or, derrière les vieux ormes,
Contempler les couleurs splendides et les formes
Des nuages baignés dans l'occident vermeil,
Et, quand l'ombre succède à la mort du soleil,
M'éloigner encor plus par quelque agreste rue
Dont l'ornière rappelle un sillon de charrue,
Gagner les champs pierreux, sans songer au départ,
Et m'asseoir, les cheveux au vent, sur le rempart.
Au loin, dans la lueur blême du crépuscule,
L'amphithéâtre noir des collines recule,
Et, tout au fond du val profond et solennel
Paris pousse à mes pieds son soupir éternel.
Le sombre azur du ciel s'épaissit. Je commence
A distinguer des bruits dans ce murmure immense,
Et je puis, écoutant, rêveur et plein d'émoi,
Le vent du soir froissant les herbes près de moi,
Et parmi le chaos des ombres débordantes,
Le sifflet douloureux des machines stridentes,
Ou l'aboiement d'un chien, ou le cri d'un enfant,
Ou le sanglot d'un orgue au lointain s'étouffant,
Ou le tintement clair d'une tardive enclume,
Voir la nuit qui s'étoile et Paris qui s'allume
Kind Paris
under my feet.
The clack of heels
on a cobblestone walk
along the river
encompassed with concepts
from centuries of artists.
The streets,
they sing,
with the accordian
and accoustic.
Kind Paris
under my feet
and my theatrical
and melodic tapping
of heels on wet cobblestones.
I
Chins that might serve the new Jerusalem;
Streets footsore; minute whisking milliners,
Dubbed graceful, but at whom one's eye demurs,
Knowing of England; ladies, much the same;
Bland smiling dogs with manes—a few of them
At pains to look like sporting characters;
Vast humming tabbies smothered in their furs;
Groseille, orgeat, meringues à la crême—
Good things to study; ditto bad—the maps
Of sloshy colour in the Louvre; cinq-francs
The largest coin; and at the restaurants
Large Ibrahim Pachas in Turkish caps
To pocket them. Un million d'habitants:
Cast up, they'll make an Englishman—perhaps.
II
Tiled floors in bedrooms; trees (now run to seed—
Such seed as the wind takes) of Liberty;
Squares with new names that no one seems to see;
Scrambling Briarean passages, which lead
To the first place you came from; urgent need
Of unperturbed nasal philosophy;
Through Paris (what with church and gallery)
Some forty first-rate paintings,—or indeed
Fifty mayhap; fine churches; splendid inns;
Fierce sentinels (toy-size without the stands)
Who spit their oaths at you and grind their r's
If at a fountain you would wash your hands;
One Frenchman (this is fact) who thinks he spars:—
Can even good dinners cover all these sins?
III
Yet in the mighty French metropolis
Our time has not gone from us utterly
In waste. The wise man saith, “An ample fee
For toil, to work thine end.” Aye that it is.
Should England ask, “Was narrow prejudice
Stretched to its utmost point unflinchingly,
Even unto lying, at all times, by ye?”
We can say firmly: “Lord, thou knowest this,
Our soil may own us.” Having but small French,
Hunt passed for a stern Spartan all the while,
Uncompromising, of few words: for me—
I think I was accounted generally
A fool, and just a little cracked. Thy smile
May light on us, Britannia, healthy wench.
Zephire a bien raison d'estre amoureux de Flore ;
C'est le plus bel objet dont il puisse jouyr ;
On voit à son eclat les soins s'esvanouyr,
Comme les libertez devant l'oeil que j'adore.
Qui ne seroit ravy d'entendre sous l'aurore
Les miracles volans qu'au bois je viens d'ouyr !
J'en sens avec les fleurs mon coeur s'espanouyr,
Et mon luth negligé leur veut respondre encore.
L'herbe sousrit à l'air d'un air voluptueux;
J'apperçoy de ce bord fertile et tortueux
Le doux feu du soleil flatter le sein de l'onde.
Le soir et le matin la Nuict baise le Jour ;
Tout ayme, tout s'embraze, et je croy que le monde
Ne renaist au printemps que pour mourir d'amour.
Like Metro in Paris
As I did in metro
in Paris, years ago
leaning to the side-wall
Study and recall
the shoes and
the legs and, the skirts
trousers and the canes
to scarves
hats and shawls
pull-over, to blouse
overcoat, tightly packed
open neck, cleavage
jewellery with necklace
and their hairs with styles
What is but attraction
beauty, in actions
reactions?
People are flowers
in greatest garden.
Originally called the Place de Louis Seize,--next the Place de la
Revolution, where the perpetual guillotine stood.
PROUD Seine, along thy winding tide
Fair smiles yon plain expanding wide,
And, deckt with art and nature's pride,
Seems formed for jocund revelry.
Scene, formed the eye of taste to please!
There splendid domes attention seize,
There, proudly towering, spreading trees
Arise in beauteous rivalry:....
But there's a place amidst that plain
Which bids its beauties beam in vain;
Which wakes the inmost soul to pain,
And prompts the throb of agony.
That place by day, lo! numbers fly,
And, shuddering, start to see it nigh;
Who there at midnight breathe the sigh
Of faithful, suffering, loyalty.
While, blending with those loyal sighs,
Oft times the patriot's murmurs rise,
Who thither, hid by darkness, flies,
To mourn the sons of liberty.
Lo! as amidst that plain I stray,
Methinks strange sadness shrouds the day,
And clothed in slaughter's red array
Appears the scene of gayety.
For once that spot was dark with blood,
There death's destroying engine stood,
There streamed, alas! the vital flood
Of all that graced humanity.
Ah! since this fair domain ye chose,
Dread ruffians, for your murderous blows,
Could not the smiling scene unclose
Your hearts to love and charity!
No....horrid contrast! on that scene
The murderer reared his poniard keen;
There proudly stalked with hideous mien
The blood-stained sons of anarchy.
Nor, Gallia, shall thy varied mirth,
Thy store of all that graces earth,
Ere give a kind oblivion birth
To thy recorded cruelty.
In all thy pomp of charms and power,
Earth can, alas! forget no more
The awful guilt that stains thy shore
With dies of sanguine tyranny,
Than they who see blue lightnings beam
Can ere forget, though fair they seem,
That danger lurks in every gleam,
And death's appalling agency.
Sur cette place je m'ennuie,
Obélisque dépareillé ;
Neige, givre, bruine et pluie
Glacent mon flanc déjà rouillé ;
Et ma vieille aiguille, rougie
Aux fournaises d'un ciel de feu,
Prend des pâleurs de nostalgie
Dans cet air qui n'est jamais bleu.
Devant les colosses moroses
Et les pylônes de Luxor,
Près de mon frère aux teintes roses
Que ne suis-je debout encor,
Plongeant dans l'azur immuable
Mon pyramidion vermeil
Et de mon ombre, sur le sable,
Écrivant les pas du soleil !
Rhamsès, un jour mon bloc superbe,
Où l'éternité s'ébréchait,
Roula fauché comme un brin d'herbe,
Et Paris s'en fit un hochet.
La sentinelle granitique,
Gardienne des énormités,
Se dresse entre un faux temple antique
Et la chambre des députés.
Sur l'échafaud de Louis seize,
Monolithe au sens aboli,
On a mis mon secret, qui pèse
Le poids de cinq mille ans d'oubli.
Les moineaux francs souillent ma tête,
Où s'abattaient dans leur essor
L'ibis rose et le gypaëte
Au blanc plumage, aux serres d'or.
La Seine, noir égout des rues,
Fleuve immonde fait de ruisseaux,
Salit mon pied, que dans ses crues
Baisait le Nil, père des eaux,
Le Nil, géant à barbe blanche
Coiffé de lotus et de joncs,
Versant de son urne qui penche
Des crocodiles pour goujons !
Les chars d'or étoilés de nacre
Des grands pharaons d'autrefois
Rasaient mon bloc heurté du fiacre
Emportant le dernier des rois.
Jadis, devant ma pierre antique,
Le pschent au front, les prêtres saints
Promenaient la bari mystique
Aux emblèmes dorés et peints ;
Mais aujourd'hui, pilier profane
Entre deux fontaines campé,
Je vois passer la courtisane
Se renversant dans son coupé.
Je vois, de janvier à décembre,
La procession des bourgeois,
Les Solons qui vont à la chambre,
Et les Arthurs qui vont au bois.
Oh ! dans cent ans quels laids squelettes
Fera ce peuple impie et fou,
Qui se couche sans bandelettes
Dans des cercueils que ferme un clou,
Et n'a pas même d'hypogées
A l'abri des corruptions,
Dortoirs où, par siècles rangées,
Plongent les générations !
Sol sacré des hiéroglyphes
Et des secrets sacerdotaux,
Où les sphinx s'aiguisent les griffes
Sur les angles des piédestaux ;
Où sous le pied sonne la crypte,
Où l'épervier couve son nid,
Je te pleure, ô ma vieille Égypte,
Avec des larmes de granit !
Paris, the city of gaiety
Paris, oh city so bright
Paris, with girls continental
We are crossing the Channel tonight.
Euros we will spend by 'the plenty'
As soon as we step on your shore.
We love pretty girls continental
The shine in their eyes we adore.
We'll reach the top of the 'Eiffel'
Admiring the wonderful sight,
And we'll walk along the Champs Elysees
As we visit the City of Culture tonight.
Lonely for Paris in spring
All is so faraway to reach,
A heart for joy could sing
What memories should teach;
Eyes are wide in clearing blue
All is such a joy to glide,
It's always up to me and you
What gets soft or amplified.
Be here and become strong
All has its wandering ways,
Have an opportunity get along
Make the best of all the days;
Ripe your feelings and touch
Nothing else is more of hope,
We have everything inasmuch
As we work things out and cope.
The days begin in nothingness
With the cold pleasure at first,
Then there might be a new fresh
A moment of thought we thirst;
A day is asleep for awhile
And then there's some awaken,
Hard in a lost hour to defile
When a mind's occupied or taken.
'In Paris, at the Louvre, there have I seen
The sumptuously-feathered angel pierce
Prone Lucifer, descending. Looked he fierce,
Showing the fight a fair one? Too serene!
The young Pharsalians did not disarray
Less willingly their locks of floating silk:
That suckling mouth of his, upon the milk
Of heaven might still be feasting through the fray.
Oh, Raphael! when men the Fiend do fight,
They conquer not upon such easy terms.
Half serpent in the struggle grow these worms
And does he grow half human, all is right.'
This to my Lady in a distant spot,
Upon the theme: While mind is mastering clay,
Gross clay invades it. If the spy you play,
My wife, read this! Strange love talk, is it not?
Ms.Paris what is Paris?
Eiffel Towers beauty,
Disneyland's adventure,
Historically religious.
Its all step by step to your
destination,
Only 1 street lamp,
Owls Go starring curiously.
A long way in history,
A lot for a pray to God Almighty.
Really amazing Sacre Coeur,
and Notre Dame church.
Ms.Paris is it really Paris?
Ah, to be in Paris in the rain
The tower dripping wet
The pavement like moist sheets
Beneath our bodies
The taste of sweets on our misty breath
The sounds of music hidden under
Flashes of lightning and the roar of
A thunderous climax
Ah, to be in Paris
In the rain
(25 July 2006)
This Paris Hilton thing makes me sad
So much of it comes from who's her dad
I don't defend actions that we know are bad
But grieve that the lives of the rest of us
Have become so vacuous
Watching this media circus has become a fad.
O’ my loving Paris, the City of Love
The cultural center, whom I adore and endear.
A city with art and abundance of culture
Where ever you look around will find amazing sculpture.
This city is ornamented and enriched with immortal write
A city, with treasures of famous paintings with delight.
Humming with legendary poems and play writes
Being vibrant with amazing dance, music and play.
Renowned for it’s stunning perfume and dresses
With classic Literature and Art works to name.
A city with Maupassant, Rodin and Dumas
Having Moulin Rouge, Louvre and
The Memorable Eiffel Tower with millions' love.
That city had bled with innocents’ blood
With tyrants’ and extremists’ inhuman fire.
Their beastly approach towards ruining civilization
With mindless savagery in killing innocents
Will beget them what, they even don’t know
But they do these satanic acts, ruining our civilization!
Mean extremism can never win at last
Good senses will surely prevail upon the brutal evils.
================================
Ami tava (15.11.2015)
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY AMITAVA SUR
Under that Eiffel tower they stood
re-affirming their love for each other,
after marriage vows and wedding bells
by the Arc de Troimphe they drove,
by the church of  Notre Dame de Paris
promises they made again
that never ever would they separate;
friends watched them kiss, sing and dance
as wine glasses got re-filled,
new dawn, new world awaited them
as tomorrows would take them
thro' all the avenues of love and life
in that city called Paris -
a city full of love and life
where joie de vivre never ceases;
how could they expect to part
by death, by cruel fate
when a bomb exploded
and their hearts forgot to beat.
And as they stopped breathing
their dreams turned into flowers
that friends placed upon their bodies;
how could they die
in that street, in that cafe,
in their own city
where they laughed with friends
and loved each other more
over a coffee, over a quarrel
yet they went home holding hands,
remembering Paris was their city
a city of love and life
and endless joie de vivre.
This is no fiction, but reality. This was God's miracle again for me,
few hours hereafter occurred the bombings in Paris. We? Already at the Orly Airport, awaiting the plane to Home....With love, Sylvia.
PARIS after the 12th of November?
No one to blame
the Eiffel Tower?
Never more the same,
departure some hours later, no resemblance
those slight difference: terror in ignorance
forced to stay in Paris forever
could never see again your homeland, remember?
no dreams anymore, constant nightmares
but....WHO....yes! WHO cares? !
you would never know, was it a curse or a bliss,
oddly enough, I informed you now all about this.
Now Paris for you is still a greatest bliss
you've never been in Paris before
we did enjoy, quarrelled and enjoyed more
for you and I Paris was the walhalla
our joy and happiness we never measure, and blah-blah-bla
God showed us the perfect view
from dusk till again the morning dew
to treasure and respect His Mighty Impact
that life He showed you, enjoy it and be correct!
please, honour His presence
be careful and love thy neighbours in mine absence....
PARIS, at le Sacré Coeur.
Photography by Sylvia Frances Chan: "A Russian artist at the Bateau Square", at view upon the Sacré Coeur.
Mardi le 10-12th November 2015.
Les heures des Silences....
P.S. Written in the hotel at place at that momentum.
PariS,
Have'nt you known, darling..
That things in you ignite,
To let the me in poetry..
Look at the poetry in me,
Or have'nt you known, darling..
That when the InmE ignites,
Things in you go down..
To let the poetry in me,
Look at the me..
InpoetrY.
[Iliad; B. XI V. 378]
So he, with a clear shout of laughter,
Forth of his ambush leapt, and he vaunted him, uttering thiswise:
'Hit thou art! not in vain flew the shaft; how by rights it had pierced thee
Into the undermost gut, therewith to have rived thee of life-breath!
Following that had the Trojans plucked a new breath from their direst,
They all frighted of thee, as the goats bleat in flight from a lion.'
Then unto him untroubled made answer stout Diomedes:
'Bow-puller, jiber, thy bow for thy glorying, spyer at virgins!
If that thou dared'st face me here out in the open with weapons,
Nothing then would avail thee thy bow and thy thick shot of arrows.
Now thou plumest thee vainly because of a graze of my footsole;
Reck I as were that stroke from a woman or some pettish infant.
Aye flies blunted the dart of the man that's emasculate, noughtworth!
Otherwise hits, forth flying from me, and but strikes it the slightest,
My keen shaft, and it numbers a man of the dead fallen straightway.
Torn, troth, then are the cheeks of the wife of that man fallen slaughtered,
Orphans his babes, full surely he reddens the earth with his blood-drops,
Rotting, round him the birds, more numerous they than the women.'
Trois allumettes une à une allumées dans la nuit
La premiére pour voir ton visage tout entier
La seconde pour voir tes yeux
La dernière pour voir ta bouche
Et l'obscuritè tout entière pour me rappeler tout cela
En te serrant dans mes bras.
(translation:
Three matches one by one struck in the night
The first to see your face in its entirety
The second to see your eyes
The last to see your mouth
And the darkness all around to remind me of all these
As I hold you in my arms.)
Three matches lit one by one in the night
The first to see your face in its entirety
The second to see your eyes
The last to see your mouth
And complete darkness to remind me of all that
In taking you in my arms
Paris Autumn
Leaving home in bitter cold
I waited for you at a small café
Red wine overflew my glass.
Rainy night Autumn
Familiar old streets and sidewalks
Leaves dropped on the park
Patiently, I waited for you, minutes then hours.
Silent Autumn
Beside Luxembourg garden
I waited for you on familiar stone bench.
Without you, my heart was frozen.
Where are you in Autumn?
My friend of brown eyes
And of fine blond hair
My fruit of sadness has red-ripened by awaiting.
Paris Autumn
Overflowing eyelids
My dorm girlfriend
Sneaked in with soft steps and whispers.
Voiceless Autumn
Fading lipstick on the lips
You returned with sadness
Forgetting bitterness, we amended our lives.
Autumn! Autumn!
Shady sky with low hanging clouds
With my generous loving heart
I have waited for you with my imprisoned heart and mind.
Autumn! ... Oh God! Autumn love!
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
11/24/2016
Above poem is English translation of original Vietnamese poem of CUNG TRẦM TƯỞNG:
MÙA THU PARIS
Mùa thu Paris
Trời buốt ra đi
Hẹn em quán nhỏ
Rưng rưng rượu đỏ tràn ly
Mùa thu đêm mưa
Phố cũ hè xưa
Công trường lá đổ
Ngóng em kiên khổ phút, giờ
Mùa thu âm thầm
Bên vườn Lục-Xâm
Ngồi quen ghế đá
Không em buốt gía từ tâm
Mùa thu nơi đâu?
Người em mắt nâu
Tóc vàng sợi nhỏ
Mong em chín đỏ trái sầu
Mùa thu Paris
Tràn dâng đôi mi
Người em gác trọ
Sang anh, gót nhỏ thầm thì
Mùa thu không lời
Son nhạt đôi môi
Em buồn trở lại
Hờn quên, hối cải cuộc đời
Mùa thu! mùa thu
Mây trời âm u
Yêu người độ lượng
Trông em tâm tưởng, giam tù
Mùa thu! ... Trời ơi! Tình thu!
CUNG TRẦM TƯỞNG
She sits and reads her livre de poche
And drinks her glass vin rouge,
And in her eyes are fragile tears
That secretly perfuse;
She is a lonely frightened bird
Who stares intent, head bent on words
Sitting at her cafe table
Afraid of life, a hopeless fable.
Claude summoned with a crooking finger,
She lonely, rescued, tried to linger;
She lived with him La Vie Boheme
Sat at his feet and worshipped him.
He tired of his petite jeune fille
Who knelt so grateful at his knee;
With palette knife she slashed her wrists;
Broke in upon his latest tyrst.
Claude bound her veins and carried her
To a summoned ambulance;
La Folle Americaine restrained,
And vite, expelled from France.
She sits alone
In the Day Room sun
Beside the plexiglass;
A book of Sartre in her lap,
A cracker, her repast;
Claude did not come
To visit her
While on his State-side trip:
She ate
Crushed grapes from
Spearing thumb
And kissed his finger tips.
The city's all a-shining
Beneath a fickle sun,
A gay young wind's a-blowing,
The little shower is done.
But the rain-drops still are clinging
And falling one by one --
Oh it's Paris, it's Paris,
And spring-time has begun.
I know the Bois is twinkling
In a sort of hazy sheen,
And down the Champs the gray old arch
Stands cold and still between.
But the walk is flecked with sunlight
Where the great acacias lean,
Oh it's Paris, it's Paris,
And the leaves are growing green.
The sun's gone in, the sparkle's dead,
There falls a dash of rain,
But who would care when such an air
Comes blowing up the Seine?
And still Ninette sits sewing
Beside her window-pane,
When it's Paris, it's Paris,
And spring-time's come again.
We make plans
setting them in motion
picking them
as if apples from a tree
ripe, sweet apples...
Paris in Springtime
yes, that is what we talked about
unfolding our dreams
in places and time
under a foreign sky
getting lost
in the soul of her city streets
stringing together hands
unwrapping our moments
in gloamings gaze
lounging at a local cafe
nibbling on edibles
laughing, talking
blanketing each other
in thought
garnishing our love
in contentment
filling up
once empty spaces
lying together between silky sheets...
It is you
I know it now
a resounding yes,
you were right all along
I have found you in the rhythms of my heart.
copyright @ 12/05/2005
We were blessed with an angel,
The day that she came,
Only a child so perfect,
Could carry her name,
I’d never imagined,
How precious she’d be,
Even now I’m amazed,
That she came from me,
They say Paris in springtime,
Is a magical place,
Like the beauty I see,
When I look at her face,
Pariss in springtime,
Is what they gave me,
I will love her forever,
And Eternity.
2005 - For my first borne, Pariss (spelt double 's') .
Paris is still there clutching her river.
Scudding zeppelins of vapor drifting above;
Glaring blue shields of summer sky
Relentlessly press down as she covers her eyes
With her lamp-posted bridges.
Autumn days tumble past the streetside cafes
Whispering treasonous thoughts to
Waiters impatiently counting their drinks tonight
In tips still clutched by the pockets
of the afternoon sippers.
What blow is this in the steel of December
Sweeping trenchcoated figures
Down rain-glistened streets,
While the flags of the Palais are snapping
Like the wings of the pigeons fleeing the square
While the city of Paris clutches her river.
We huddled there, when love was
Less like a question unasked
Than a bridge in the water
Spanning the distance
Between two wary hearts.
From all of this I am the only one who leaves.
From this bench I go away, from my pants,
from my great situation, from my actions,
from my number split side to side,
from all of this I am the only one who leaves.
From the Champs Elysées or as the strange
alley of the Moon makes a turn,
my death goes away, my cradle leaves,
and, surrounded by people, alone, cut loose,
my human resemblance turns around
and dispatches its shadows one by one.
And I move away from everything, since everything
remains to create my alibi:
my shoe, its eyelet, as well as its mud
and even the bend in the elbow
of my own buttoned shirt.
Paris, hvor er Du dog lystig og glad,
En dandsende Adam uden Figenblad!
Du spiser af Frugten, og uden al Sky.
Og naar den er spiist — vil Du have en ny.
paris................
o paris................
Y paris................
the patience, eating the happiness
the pain, eating the patience
and the pain, eating the pain
I AM SICK, paris
treat me, sister
paris................
o paris................
Y paris................
exile, on my papers
restrained, ..
in my lines
so free me, paris
treat me, paris
I BELONG TO YOU, ..
sister
my home, the colours of MONET
my room, is a water flower
my air..
is the scent of FRANCE
and my refuge..
is a place by RENOIR shrine
so take me paris..
as your..
renoirian..
REFUGEE.
First, London, for its myriads; for its height,
Manhattan heaped in towering stalagmite;
But Paris for the smoothness of the paths
That lead the heart unto the heart's delight. . . .
Fair loiterer on the threshold of those days
When there's no lovelier prize the world displays
Than, having beauty and your twenty years,
You have the means to conquer and the ways,
And coming where the crossroads separate
And down each vista glories and wonders wait,
Crowning each path with pinnacles so fair
You know not which to choose, and hesitate --
Oh, go to Paris. . . . In the midday gloom
Of some old quarter take a little room
That looks off over Paris and its towers
From Saint Gervais round to the Emperor's Tomb, --
So high that you can hear a mating dove
Croon down the chimney from the roof above,
See Notre Dame and know how sweet it is
To wake between Our Lady and our love.
And have a little balcony to bring
Fair plants to fill with verdure and blossoming,
That sparrows seek, to feed from pretty hands,
And swallows circle over in the Spring.
There of an evening you shall sit at ease
In the sweet month of flowering chestnut-trees,
There with your little darling in your arms,
Your pretty dark-eyed Manon or Louise.
And looking out over the domes and towers
That chime the fleeting quarters and the hours,
While the bright clouds banked eastward back of them
Blush in the sunset, pink as hawthorn flowers,
You cannot fail to think, as I have done,
Some of life's ends attained, so you be one
Who measures life's attainment by the hours
That Joy has rescued from oblivion.
II
Come out into the evening streets. The green light lessens in the west.
The city laughs and liveliest her fervid pulse of pleasure beats.
The belfry on Saint Severin strikes eight across the smoking eaves:
Come out under the lights and leaves
to the Reine Blanche on Saint Germain. . . .
Now crowded diners fill the floor of brasserie and restaurant.
Shrill voices cry "L'Intransigeant," and corners echo "Paris-Sport."
Where rows of tables from the street are screened with shoots of box and bay,
The ragged minstrels sing and play and gather sous from those that eat.
And old men stand with menu-cards, inviting passers-by to dine
On the bright terraces that line the Latin Quarter boulevards. . . .
But, having drunk and eaten well, 'tis pleasant then to stroll along
And mingle with the merry throng that promenades on Saint Michel.
Here saunter types of every sort. The shoddy jostle with the chic:
Turk and Roumanian and Greek; student and officer and sport;
Slavs with their peasant, Christ-like heads,
and courtezans like powdered moths,
And peddlers from Algiers, with cloths
bright-hued and stitched with golden threads;
And painters with big, serious eyes go rapt in dreams, fantastic shapes
In corduroys and Spanish capes and locks uncut and flowing ties;
And lovers wander two by two, oblivious among the press,
And making one of them no less, all lovers shall be dear to you:
All laughing lips you move among, all happy hearts that, knowing what
Makes life worth while, have wasted not the sweet reprieve of being young.
"Comment ca va!" "Mon vieux!" "Mon cher!"
Friends greet and banter as they pass.
'Tis sweet to see among the mass comrades and lovers everywhere,
A law that's sane, a Love that's free, and men of every birth and blood
Allied in one great brotherhood of Art and Joy and Poverty. . . .
The open cafe-windows frame loungers at their liqueurs and beer,
And walking past them one can hear fragments of Tosca and Boheme.
And in the brilliant-lighted door of cinemas the barker calls,
And lurid posters paint the walls with scenes of Love and crime and war.
But follow past the flaming lights, borne onward with the stream of feet,
Where Bullier's further up the street is marvellous on Thursday nights.
Here all Bohemia flocks apace; you could not often find elsewhere
So many happy heads and fair assembled in one time and place.
Under the glare and noise and heat the galaxy of dancing whirls,
Smokers, with covered heads, and girls dressed in the costume of the street.
From tables packed around the wall the crowds that drink and frolic there
Spin serpentines into the air far out over the reeking hall,
That, settling where the coils unroll, tangle with pink and green and blue
The crowds that rag to "Hitchy-koo" and boston to the "Barcarole". . . .
Here Mimi ventures, at fifteen, to make her debut in romance,
And join her sisters in the dance and see the life that they have seen.
Her hair, a tight hat just allows to brush beneath the narrow brim,
Docked, in the model's present whim, `frise' and banged above the brows.
Uncorseted, her clinging dress with every step and turn betrays,
In pretty and provoking ways her adolescent loveliness,
As guiding Gaby or Lucile she dances, emulating them
In each disturbing stratagem and each lascivious appeal.
Each turn a challenge, every pose an invitation to compete,
Along the maze of whirling feet the grave-eyed little wanton goes,
And, flaunting all the hue that lies in childish cheeks and nubile waist,
She passes, charmingly unchaste, illumining ignoble eyes. . . .
But now the blood from every heart leaps madder through abounding veins
As first the fascinating strains of "El Irresistible" start.
Caught in the spell of pulsing sound, impatient elbows lift and yield
The scented softnesses they shield to arms that catch and close them round,
Surrender, swift to be possessed, the silken supple forms beneath
To all the bliss the measures breathe and all the madness they suggest.
Crowds congregate and make a ring. Four deep they stand and strain to see
The tango in its ecstasy of glowing lives that clasp and cling.
Lithe limbs relaxed, exalted eyes fastened on vacancy, they seem
To float upon the perfumed stream of some voluptuous Paradise,
Or, rapt in some Arabian Night, to rock there, cradled and subdued,
In a luxurious lassitude of rhythm and sensual delight.
And only when the measures cease and terminate the flowing dance
They waken from their magic trance and join the cries that clamor "Bis!" . . .
Midnight adjourns the festival. The couples climb the crowded stair,
And out into the warm night air go singing fragments of the ball.
Close-folded in desire they pass, or stop to drink and talk awhile
In the cafes along the mile from Bullier's back to Montparnasse:
The "Closerie" or "La Rotonde", where smoking, under lamplit trees,
Sit Art's enamored devotees, chatting across their `brune' and `blonde'. . . .
Make one of them and come to know sweet Paris -- not as many do,
Seeing but the folly of the few, the froth, the tinsel, and the show --
But taking some white proffered hand that from Earth's barren every day
Can lead you by the shortest way into Love's florid fairyland.
And that divine enchanted life that lurks under Life's common guise --
That city of romance that lies within the City's toil and strife --
Shall, knocking, open to your hands, for Love is all its golden key,
And one's name murmured tenderly the only magic it demands.
And when all else is gray and void in the vast gulf of memory,
Green islands of delight shall be all blessed moments so enjoyed:
When vaulted with the city skies, on its cathedral floors you stood,
And, priest of a bright brotherhood, performed the mystic sacrifice,
At Love's high altar fit to stand, with fire and incense aureoled,
The celebrant in cloth of gold with Spring and Youth on either hand.
III
Choral Song
Have ye gazed on its grandeur
Or stood where it stands
With opal and amber
Adorning the lands,
And orcharded domes
Of the hue of all flowers?
Sweet melody roams
Through its blossoming bowers,
Sweet bells usher in from its belfries the train of the honey-sweet hour.
A city resplendent,
Fulfilled of good things,
On its ramparts are pendent
The bucklers of kings.
Broad banners unfurled
Are afloat in its air.
The lords of the world
Look for harborage there.
None finds save he comes as a bridegroom, having roses and vine in his hair.
'Tis the city of Lovers,
There many paths meet.
Blessed he above others,
With faltering feet,
Who past its proud spires
Intends not nor hears
The noise of its lyres
Grow faint in his ears!
Men reach it through portals of triumph, but leave through a postern of tears.
It was thither, ambitious,
We came for Youth's right,
When our lips yearned for kisses
As moths for the light,
When our souls cried for Love
As for life-giving rain
Wan leaves of the grove,
Withered grass of the plain,
And our flesh ached for Love-flesh beside it with bitter, intolerable pain.
Under arbor and trellis,
Full of flutes, full of flowers,
What mad fortunes befell us,
What glad orgies were ours!
In the days of our youth,
In our festal attire,
When the sweet flesh was smooth,
When the swift blood was fire,
And all Earth paid in orange and purple to pavilion the bed of Desire!
Paris
A wonderful city
A place for lovers
Paris
A city to dream wild
Paris
In that river the boats are moving with lovers inside
Watching that beautiful sky above the river
And the moon from that beautiful sky
Is shining in
The river
Paris
A city that never sleeps
Paris
The romance is in the air
Paris
The lovers are feeling the love that are in the air
Paris
That smell of the roses the lovers can smell
Paris
This is the sign that spring is here
Paris
Spring is the most beautiful time of the year
Now that winter has finally gone to sleep
Paris
The lovers welcome spring with open arms
Prends ma main, Voyageur, et montons sur la Tour. -
Regarde tout en bas, et regarde à l'entour.
Regarde jusqu'au bout de l'horizon, regarde
Du nord au sud. Partout où ton oeil se hasarde,
Qu'il s'attache avec feu, comme l'oeil du serpent
Qui pompe du regard ce qu'il suit en rampant,
Tourne sur le donjon qu'un parapet prolonge,
D'où la vue à loisir sur tous les points se plonge
Et règne, du zénith, sur un monde mouvant,
Comme l'éclair, l'oiseau, le nuage et le vent.
Que vois-tu dans la nuit, à nos pieds, dans l'espace,
Et partout où mon doigt tourne, passe et repasse ?
- ' Je vois un cercle noir, si large et si profond
' Que je n'en aperçois ni le bout ni le fond.
' Des collines, au loin, me semblent sa ceinture,
' Et, pourtant, je ne vois nulle part la nature,
' Mais partout la main d'homme et l'angle que sa main
' Impose à la matière en tout travail humain.
' Je vois ces angles noirs et luisants qui, dans l'ombre,
' L'un sur l'autre entassés, sans ordre ni sans nombre
' Coupent des murs blanchis pareils à des tombeaux.
' - Je vois fumer, brûler, éclater des flambeaux,
' Brillant sur cet abîme où l'air pénètre à peine,
' Comme des diamants incrustés dans l'ébène.
' - Un fleuve y dort sans bruit, replié dans son cours,
' Comme, dans un buisson, la couleuvre aux cent tours.
' Des ombres de palais, de dômes et d'aiguilles,
' De tours et de donjons, de clochers, de bastilles
' De châteaux forts, de kiosks et d'aigus minarets ;
' Des formes de remparts, de jardins, de forêts,
' De spirales, d'arceaux, de parcs, de colonnades,
' D'obélisques, de ponts, de portes et d'arcades,
' Tout fourmille et grandit, se cramponne en montant,
' Se courbe, se replie, ou se creuse ou s'étend.
' - Dans un brouillard de feu je crois voir ce grand rêve.
' La tour où nous voilà dans le cercle s'élève.
' En le traçant jadis, c'est ici, n'est-ce pas,
' Que Dieu même a posé le centre du compas ?
' Le vertige m'enivre, et sur mes yeux il pèse.
' Vois-je une Roue ardente, ou bien une Fournaise ? '
Al Godillot, Gambier, Galopeau,
Wolf-Pleyel - O Robinets! -
Menier, - O Chirsts! - Leperdriel!
Kinck, Jacob, Bonbonnel!
Veuillot, Tropmann, Augier!
Gill, Mendes, Manuel, Guido Gonin! -
Basket of the Graces! L'Herisse!
Unctuous waxes!
Old loaves, spirits!
Blind men! -
but then who knows? -
Beadles, Enghien. -
In one's own home!
Let's be Christian!
My Paris is a land where twilight days
Merge into violent nights of black and gold;
Where, it may be, the flower of dawn is cold:
Ah, but the gold nights, and the scented ways!
Eyelids of women, little curls of hair,
A little nose curved softly, like a shell,
A red mouth like a wound, a mocking veil:
Phantoms, before the dawn, how phantom-fair!
And every woman with beseeching eyes,
Or with enticing eyes, or amorous,
Offers herself, a rose, and craves of us
A rose's place among our memories.
never
even in calmer times
have I ever
dreamed of
bicycling through that
city
wearing a
beret
and
Camus
always
pisse d
me
off.
I know this Girl Doris
She lives in Paris
Doris asked me to come for a visit
So I got on a bus and did it,
Went to Paris
saw lovely Doris
And all the sites
plus the night lights
I was tired, and I went to the Hilton
that is in Paris, after I left Doris
Now in my room thinking about the day
' I did Paris', I suppose I can say......
Rain washed streets in early evening
Where lovers stroll, and old men sit
At a pavement a café in the shade
Of a red canopy and dream,
Lost in their distant memories.
Paris, that eternal city,
At the going down of the day,
Where spring, about to retire
With its cold days and bright sunshine,
Bows to the approaching summer.
Where people begin to shrug off
Their winter blues and overcoats
And take a lighter, gentler step.
Not even the noise of traffic
Breaks into such tranquillity.
J'ai vu Paris dans l'ombre
Hypogée où l'on riait trop
Paris une grande améthyste
Ces soldats belges en troupe
Vieilles femmes habillées en Perrette
Après le pot-au-lait
L'officier-pilote raconte ses exploits
J'ai entendu la berloque
Mais quel sourire celui de celui qui eut sursis d'appel illimité
Ombre de la statue de Shakespeare sur le Boulevard Haussmann
Laideur des costumes civils des hommes qui ne sont pas partis
Les peintres travaillaient
Mon cœur t'adore
The curtain white in folds,
She walks two steps and turns,
The curtain still, the light
Staggers in her eyes.
The lamps are golden.
Afternoon leans, silently.
She dances in my life.
The white day burns.
Where the glistening glow of your love spells out Paris,
like the lights that shine upon it's midnight sky.
Fear not that place but take me there with you- tonight,
so we can spend all of eternity holding hands.
Side by side.
Let's live this moment:
right now, right here.
Under the moonlit roses as the flakes of them rain on us.
Paris is the city that mends all love sores,
so let's make all things wrong between us turn to right.
Paris
In Paris, they tell me
Million is marching
I would too; if I could
To support and agree
'Respect is top of list'
'Tolerance is the need'
Behaviors can exceed
It makes heart to bleed
Head in sand or snow
Polishing with glow
Empty; being shelled
Will repeat at its end
What logic is against
Just written media August 2011.
Recently last July I was invited by a good friend to come to Paris.
When still living in the tropics I loved to study Beaux Arts in Paris, but....since I was the only girl (be noted: my big bro was the only boy....LOL...) , my mom forbade me, I may not study in Heidelberg either! Since then Paris had become its home in my head, I really enjoyed my very first visit to Paris, I was really very excited...and last July I was back again in Paris, this time I was invited....all previous times I invited myself...
Paris was my first Love
so excited for the first time
I thank God above, my love
have met Paris again and a good rhyme
Paris was my first Love
but not my last
I forget sometimes the Present
but I'll never do that with the Past
Sylvia Frances Chan
© copyright Sat Aug 13 - 2011 -
All Rights Reserved
Published August 13,2011
Jeg gaar og gaar
ad brede Gader og i snævre Gyder,
i Parker, fyldte ad den grønne Vaar,
hvor Rododendren tung af Blomster staar
og Springvand syder,
— gaar milevidt
ad Boulevarder, hvor for hvert et Skridt
Kastanjeblomster som smaa Snefnug ligge
— gaar alle Vegne
hvor hundred Gange jeg i Drømme gik,
... og glædes ikke.
Paris! Paris!
— mit Liv sin Farve fik
i andre Egne.
Du rige Stad!
Svøbt som en Fe i Vaarens Blomsterklæde
strør du din Pragt til den, som smiler glad,
din Sjæl, dit Liv, Dugdraaben, som et Blad
har du grædt af Glæde.
Og den, der ser
en Morgenstund, naar alle Smaabørn ler,
hvor Solen som et Væld af Kærtegn glider
— fra dine Hænder,
— han rammes af et Sting,
som Hjærtet bider.
Paris! Paris!
jeg længes efter Ting,
du ikke kender.
The filthy guest has gone? You'll need a wash:
But London will not wait to kiss your hand.
We have the bombing. But you had the Boche—
And we know which is easier to stand.
August 27,1944
City of contrasts and perspectives
as the guide describes,
one is baffled where to begin:
Eiffel's rusty looks scaling into evanescent skies
eerie, metaphysical,
existential angst of Sartre and the like
at Le Café de Flore in Saint-Germain-Des-Pres,
imposing spiritual marvel of Notre Dame De Paris,
the city's celebrated night life,
Lido which I didn't see
(never visit Paris with family) ,
the pantheon of naked masculinity
at the Louvre which boasts
of Roman research into true human form
(true indeed they were in trimming to size
male genitalia to miniscule inches,
the exaggerated measure of which
had always bloated the male ego
into escapades and misadventures
unabashedly christened as world history) ,
magnificent Champs Elysees hooding up at the grand Arc de Triomphe
where an unbending De Gaulle was fictioned to have stooped
in time to save his head from Jackal's speeding bullet
or at last the great River Seine
on the banks of which
men, women and children stand
like windmills raising their arms
waving at visitors onboard midstream
as though to aliens in close encounter
Paris so beautiful at night
And during the day is beautiful also
The Eiffel Tower is located in the center of Paris
But all the flowers in Paris are blooming in the parks
And at la seine
Yes spring is heret in Paris
And I am enjoying  the spring
But the flowers in the parks here in Paris are beautiful
Because they are a show of colors
Paris you are always in my heart
And you shine inside my heart
Just like the rainbow
Paris you are a part of my heart
Paris! O Paris!
Paradise of grand monuments!
Prized wonder -The Eiffel tower,
Patrons of art and artistes,
Pavilions of patisserie
Perennial city of joy!
Paintings that cast a spell at the Louvre,
Paintings that make an impression at Musee d Orsay,
Paintings that spell magic of Monet, Manet and Degas,
Paintings that stir your emotion like the
Picture perfect of Vincent van Gogh -A
Penchant for the Impressionists!
Beckoning Bridges along the Seine River,
Bridge Royal built by Sun King Louis XIV,
Bridge Concorde made with stones of Bastille,
Bridge Alexandre III - a Franco-Russian alliance,
Bridge Alma with the popular sculpture of ‘le zouave'
Bridge Corrousel leading towards the Tuilerie gardens!
A walk in the Tuilerie garden,
A gleeful glide amongst the picturesque greens,
Along the majestic speaking trees,
A profusion of colourful blooms,
A park that projects elegance
A serene garden of love and loveliness!
Terrible! Horrible!
Terrorism striking with its ugly jaws
Tearing apart a nation that symbolized style
Tentacles spreading their venomous stings
Tears flowing into an ocean of sorrow
Tender hearts breaking into thousand pieces!
Why did the seed of terrorism get sown?
Why should the innocent citizens die?
Why should a charming city be torn to pieces?
Why this barbaric act of blood shed?
Why? Cannot man live in peace?
Why? Cannot humans love each other?
How dear the sky has been above this place!
Small treasures of this sky that we see here
Seen weak through prison-bars from year to year;
Eyed with a painful prayer upon God's grace
To save, and tears which stayed along the face
Lifted at sunset. Yea, how passing dear
Those nights when through the bars a wind left clear
The heaven, and moonlight soothed the limpid space!
So was it, till one night the secret kept
Safe in low vault and stealthy corridor
Was blown abroad on gospel-tongues of flame.
O ways of God, mysterious evermore!
How many on this spot have cursed and wept
That all might stand here now and own Thy Name.
I  cant pretend that the long week end
That I spent in gay Parie
Though `twas great  left me in a state
Of very low degree.
The Mona Lisa smiled at me
And I smiled back at her
Went to Montmartre to study art
And take in the Sacre- Coeur
.
A bottle of wine when I went to dine
On the St Gernain des Pris
Drunk another lot in  les Deux Maggot
I should not have done;  I agree
Cognac went down well in the hotel
My friends I tried not to embarrass
But the carpet rose and hit my nose
I was completely  plastered in Paris
-----------
each summer i go to paris to write
and each trip i make you greet me
as though you haven't seen me in ages
then you tell me i get more beautiful
with each passing year
but i'm just getting older
and it's really men not women that
get better looking with age
i pose for you by day watching your brush
as it whisks over canvas
nights are spent in quaint restaurants
where we eat only the finest foods
chasing it down with the best of the wines
later in the night i try to write
but you won't let me
you're too busy teasing and tickling me
it's impossible to concentrate
you never cease tempting me into your bed
you tell me i will be famous
once your masterpiece is complete
then when i come to paris
everyone i pass by in the city will know me
L'Amour de mes pensers, comme de son pinceau,
Vous peint à mon esprit, si je clos ma paupière
Je vous vois en dormant, si je suis sans lumière,
Pour m'éclairer de nuit vous êtes mon flambeau.
Si je suis sur la terre, ou si je suis sur l'eau,
Vous me suivez sur terre, et dessus la rivière :
Car je vous vois toujours et devant et derrière,
La croupe du cheval, la poupe du bateau.
Encor que de mon corps le vôtre soit absent,
A mon esprit toujours votre corps est présent
Concevez-vous cela ma divine maîtresse.
Si pénétrer les corps par son agilité
Est la propre action de la divinité,
L'amour m'avait bien dit que vous étiez déesse.
[台湾] 方明 《巴黎 哭泣》 （苏菲英译）苏菲诗歌&翻译网
巴黎 哭泣
方 明
——哀悼花都11月13日屠戮——
巴黎是很憂鬱的
爆崩的氤氳撕裂浪漫的
臉龐 殷紅的秋是血河泫染
窸窣落葉 死神的冷目狙擊着
劇院正值風月吭唱
柔情的摇喊與裸情的子彈
交錯出變調的輓歌
巴黎是很憂鬱的
燙熱的杯觥是紅酒是迸濺血漿
波特萊爾的詩歌被蹂躪成逃亡之淚 水
足球與榴彈相互竄向喑鳴的目標
卡繆的「反抗者」與 存在荒謬在此
痛苦印證人類忐忑的體溫
巴黎是很憂鬱的
璀燦的鐵塔與凱旋門 的無名火焰
開始漸漸蕭森闃然
空靜的咖啡館仍匍匐攀爬着
盧梭與大仲馬的精靈
彼此爭辨着自由與恩仇的宣言
而小酒館仍飄來悠揚的爵士玫瑰人生
2015 年 11月15日完稿
[Taiwan] Fang Ming Paris Is Crying （Sophy Chen's Poetry Translation C-E）Sophy Poetry & Translation Website Reported Firstly
Paris Is Crying
By Fang Ming
— To Mourn the Slaughter on November 13 in the Most Beautiful & Romantic Capital —
Paris is very melancholy.
The enshrouding smoke of a sudden explosion tore her romantic
Face. In the bright red autumn, the rivers of blood stained
The rustling fallen leaves. The cold eyes of death are sniping
The theatre, singing in her romantic throat, with love affairs.
The tender shaking, shouting and bullets of naked love
Staggered out of the tone of elegy.
Paris is very melancholy.
Wine in hot wine glasses is the red wine, and is the splashing blood plasma.
Baudelaire’s poetry has been torn into tears fleeing.
Football and grenade are mutually up to silent crying target.
Camus’ The Rebel and existentialism are paradoxical here
Which sadly confirm the mankind uneasy body’s temperature.
Paris is very melancholy.
The unknown flame of splendid Eiffel Tower and Triumphal Arch
Slowly start to be dreary, desolate and quiet.
Empty and quiet cafe being crept and climbed
The elves of Rousseau and Alexandre Dumas
Are another arguing of the declaration on freedom and hatred
While the bistro still floats the melodious jazz, La Vie En Rose
Finalized, November 15,2015
Translated by Sophy Chen 2015-11-17
（本诗原始语言为汉语，由苏菲首次翻译成英语，在中国大陆 发表，如有转载请注明出处）
（Its original language is Chinese, it is firstly translated by Sophy Chen into English and published in the mainland of China and if you will reproduce it please indicate the source.）
That which Grecian art created,
Let the Frank, with joy elated,
Bear to Seine's triumphant strand,
And in his museums glorious
Show the trophies all-victorious
To his wondering fatherland.
They to him are silent ever,
Into life's fresh circle never
From their pedestals come down.
He alone e'er holds the Muses
Through whose breast their power diffuses,--
To the Vandal they're but stone!
Because he coveted beauty
above wisdom or power,
death would be his destiny.
Wisdom may have saved him.
Yet he deceived himself
to believe a mortal man,
could possess such loveliness,
even though he was a prince.
The fairest maiden of all,
the daughter of the Swan,
was wed to a Greek King,
but she did not love him.
Still in alliances of death,
armies swore protection
of their honored Queen,
and the honor of the King.
Yet goddesses conspired,
and Eros fired love's arrow
ensuring Helen's passion.
Thus the Prince was doomed.
Paris would die for love,
for abduction of the Queen
brought war and retribution,
and Troy was razed to dust.
1
Far in the depth of Ida's inmost grove,
A scene for love and solitude design'd;
Where flowery woodbines wild, by Nature wove,
Form'd the lone bower, the royal swain reclined.
2
All up the craggy cliffs, that tower'd to heaven,
Green waved the murmuring pines on every side;
Save where, fair opening to the beam of even,
A dale sloped gradual to the valley wide.
3
Echo'd the vale with many a cheerful note;
The lowing of the herds resounding long,
The shrilling pipe, and mellow horn remote,
And social clamours of the festive throng.
4
For now, low hovering o'er the western main,
Where amber clouds begirt his dazzling throne,
The Sun with ruddier verdure deck'd the plain;
And lakes and streams and spires triumphal shone.
5
And many a band of ardent youths were seen;
Some into rapture fired by glory's charms,
Or hurl'd the thundering car along the green,
Or march'd embattled on in glittering arms.
6
Others more mild, in happy leisure gay,
The darkening forest's lonely gloom explore,
Or by Scamander's flowery margin stray,
Or the blue Hellespont's resounding shore.
7
But chief the eye to Ilion's glories turn'd,
That gleam'd along the extended champaign far,
And bulwarks in terrific pomp adorn'd,
Where Peace sat smiling at the frowns of War.
8
Rich in the spoils of many a subject clime,
In pride luxurious blazed the imperial dome;
Tower'd 'mid the encircling grove the fane sublime,
And dread memorials mark'd the hero's tomb
9
Who from the black and bloody cavern led
The savage stern, and soothed his boisterous breast;
Who spoke, and Science rear'd her radiant head,
And brighten'd o'er the long benighted waste:
10
Or, greatly daring in his country's cause,
Whose heaven-taught soul the awful plan design'd,
Whence Power stood trembling at the voice of laws;
Whence soar'd on Freedom's wing the ethereal mind.
11
But not the pomp that royalty displays,
Nor all the imperial pride of lofty Troy,
Nor Virtue's triumph of immortal praise
Could rouse the langour of the lingering boy.
12
Abandon'd all to soft Enone's charms,
He to oblivion doom'd the listless day;
Inglorious lull'd in Love's dissolving arms,
While flutes lascivious breathed the enfeebling lay.
13
To trim the ringlets of his scented hair:
To aim, insidious, Love's bewitching glance;
Or cull fresh garlands for the gaudy fair,
Or wanton loose in the voluptuous dance:
14
These were his arts; these won Enone's love,
Nor sought his fetter'd soul a nobler aim.
Ah, why should beauty's smile those arts approve
Which taint with infamy the lover's flame?
15
Now laid at large beside a murmuring spring,
Melting he listen'd to the vernal song,
And Echo, listening, waved her airy wing,
While the deep winding dales the lays prolong;
16
When, slowly floating down the azure skies,
A crimson cloud flash'd on his startled sight,
Whose skirts gay-sparkling with unnumber'd dyes
Launch'd the long billowy trails of flickery light.
17
That instant, hush'd was all the vocal grove,
Hush'd was the gale, and every ruder sound;
And strains aërial, warbling far above,
Rung in the ear a magic peal profound.
18
Near and more near the swimming radiance roll'd;
Along the mountains stream the lingering fires;
Sublime the groves of Ida blaze with gold,
And all the Heaven resounds with louder lyres.
19
The trumpet breathed a note: and all in air,
The glories vanish'd from the dazzled eye;
And three ethereal forms, divinely fair,
Down the steep glade were seen advancing nigh.
20
The flowering glade fell level where they moved;
O'erarching high the clustering roses hung;
And gales from heaven on balmy pinion roved,
And hill and dale with gratulation rung.
21
The FIRST with slow and stately step drew near,
Fix'd was her lofty eye, erect her mien:
Sublime in grace, in majesty severe,
She look'd and moved a goddess and a queen.
22
Her robe along the gale profusely stream'd,
Light lean'd the sceptre on her bending arm;
And round her brow a starry circlet gleam'd,
Heightening the pride of each commanding charm.
23
Milder the NEXT came on with artless grace,
And on a javelin's quivering length reclined:
To exalt her mien she bade no splendour blaze,
Nor pomp of vesture fluctuate on the wind.
24
Serene, though awful, on her brow the light
Of heavenly wisdom shone; nor roved her eyes.
Save to the shadowy cliffs majestic height,
Or the blue concave of the involving skies.
25
Keen were her eyes to search the inmost soul:
Yet virtue triumph'd in their beams benign,
And impious Pride oft felt their dread control,
When in fierce lightning flash'd the wrath divine1.
26
With awe and wonder gazed the adoring swain;
His kindling cheeks great Virtue's power confess'd;
But soon 'twas o'er; for Virtue prompts in vain,
When Pleasure's influence numbs the nerveless breast.
27
And now advanced the QUEEN of melting JOY,
Smiling supreme in unresisted charms:
Ah, then, what transports fired the trembling boy!
How throbb'd his sickening frame with fierce alarms!
28
Her eyes in liquid light luxurious swim,
And languish with unutterable love.
Heaven's warm bloom glows along each brightening limb,
Where fluttering bland the veil's thin mantlings rove.
29
Quick, blushing as abash'd, she half withdrew:
One hand a bough of flowering myrtle waved.
One graceful spread, where, scarce conceal'd from view,
Soft through the parting robe her bosom heaved.
30
'Offspring of Jove supreme! beloved of Heaven!
Attend.' Thus spoke the Empress of the Skies.
'For know, to thee, high-fated prince, 'tis given
Through the bright realms of Fame sublime to rise,
31
Beyond man's boldest hope; if nor the wiles
Of Pallas triumph o'er the ennobling thought;
Nor Pleasure lure with artificial smiles
To quaff the poison of her luscious draught.
32
When Juno's charms the prize of beauty claim,
Shall aught on earth, shall aught in heaven contend?
Whom Juno calls to high triumphant fame,
Shall he to meaner sway inglorious bend?
33
Yet lingering comfortless in lonesome wild,
Where Echo sleeps 'mid cavern'd vales profound,
The pride of Troy, Dominion's darling child,
Pines while the slow hour stalks in sullen round.
34
Hear thou, of Heaven unconscious! From the blaze
Of glory, stream'd from Jove's eternal throne,
Thy soul, O mortal, caught the inspiring rays
That to a god exalt Earth's raptured son.
35
Hence the bold wish, on boundless pinion borne,
That fires, alarms, impels the maddening soul;
The hero's eye, hence, kindling into scorn,
Blasts the proud menace, and defies control.
36
But, unimproved, Heaven's noblest boons are vain,
No sun with plenty crowns the uncultured vale:
Where green lakes languish on the silent plain,
Death rides the billows of the western gale.
37
Deep in yon mountain's womb, where the dark cave
Howls to the torrent's everlasting roar,
Does the rich gem its flashy radiance wave?
Or flames with steady ray the imperial ore?
38
Toil deck'd with glittering domes yon champaign wide,
And wakes yon grove-embosom'd lawns to joy,
And rends the rough ore from the mountain's side,
Spangling with starry pomp the thrones of Troy.
39
Fly these soft scenes. Even now, with playful art,
Love wreathes the flowery ways with fatal snare;
And nurse the ethereal fire that warms thy heart,
That fire ethereal lives but by thy care.
40
Lo! hovering near on dark and dampy wing,
Sloth with stern patience waits the hour assign'd,
From her chill plume the deadly dews to fling,
That quench Heaven's beam, and freeze the cheerless mind.
41
Vain, then, the enlivening sound of Fame's alarms,
For Hope's exulting impulse prompts no more:
Vain even the joys that lure to Pleasure's arms,
The throb of transport is for ever o'er.
42
O who shall then to Fancy's darkening eyes
Recall the Elysian dreams of joy and light?
Dim through the gloom the formless visions rise,
Snatch'd instantaneous down the gulf of night.
43
Thou who, securely lull'd in youth's warm ray,
Mark'st not the desolations wrought by Time,
Be roused or perish. Ardent for its prey,
Speeds the fell hour that ravages thy prime.
44
And, 'midst the horrors shrined of midnight storm,
The fiend Oblivion eyes thee from afar,
Black with intolerable frowns her form,
Beckoning the embattled whirlwinds into war.
45
Fanes, bulwarks, mountains, worlds, their tempest whelms;
Yet glory braves unmoved the impetuous sweep.
Fly then, ere, hurl'd from life's delightful realms,
Thou sink to Oblivion's dark and boundless deep.
46
Fly, then, where Glory points the path sublime,
See her crown dazzling with eternal light!
'Tis Juno prompts thy daring steps to climb,
And girds thy bounding heart with matchless might.
47
Warm in the raptures of divine desire,
Burst the soft chain that curbs the aspiring mind;
And fly where Victory, borne on wings of fire,
Waves her red banner to the rattling wind.
48
Ascend the car: indulge the pride of arms,
Where clarions roll their kindling strains on high,
Where the eye maddens to the dread alarms,
And the long shout tumultuous rends the sky.
49
Plunged in the uproar of the thundering field,
I see thy lofty arm the tempest guide:
Fate scatters lightning from thy meteor-shield,
And Ruin spreads around the sanguine tide.
50
Go, urge the terrors of thy headlong car
On prostrate Pride, and Grandeur's spoils o'erthrown,
While all amazed even heroes shrink afar,
And hosts embattled vanish at thy frown.
51
When glory crowns thy godlike toils, and all
The triumph's lengthening pomp exalts thy soul,
When lowly at thy feet the mighty fall,
And tyrants tremble at thy stern control:
52
When conquering millions hail thy sovereign might,
And tribes unknown dread acclamation join;
How wilt thou spurn the forms of low delight!
For all the ecstasies of heaven are thine:
53
For thine the joys, that fear no length of days,
Whose wide effulgence scorns all mortal bound:
Fame's trump in thunder shall announce thy praise,
Nor bursting worlds her clarion's blast confound.'
54
The Goddess ceased, not dubious of the prize:
Elate she mark'd his wild and rolling eye,
Mark'd his lip quiver, and his bosom rise,
And his warm cheek suffused with crimson dye.
55
But Pallas now drew near. Sublime, serene,
In conscious dignity she view'd the swain:
Then, love and pity softening all her mien,
Thus breathed with accents mild the solemn strain:
56
'Let those whose arts to fatal paths betray,
The soul with passion's gloom tempestuous blind,
And snatch from Reason's ken the auspicious ray
Truth darts from heaven to guide the exploring mind.
57
'But Wisdom loves the calm and serious hour,
When heaven's pure emanation beams confess'd:
Rage, ecstasy, alike disclaim her power,
She woo's each gentler impulse of the breast.
58
Sincere the unalter'd bliss her charms impart,
Sedate the enlivening ardours they inspire:
She bids no transient rapture thrill the heart,
She wakes no feverish gust of fierce desire.
59
Unwise, who, tossing on the watery way,
All to the storm the unfetter'd sail devolve:
Man more unwise resigns the mental sway,
Borne headlong on by passion's keen resolve.
60
While storms remote but murmur on thine ear,
Nor waves in ruinous uproar round thee roll,
Yet, yet a moment check thy prone career,
And curb the keen resolve that prompts thy soul.
61
Explore thy heart, that, roused by Glory's name,
Pants all enraptured with the mighty charm—
And does Ambition quench each milder flame?
And is it conquest that alone can warm?
62
To indulge fell Rapine's desolating lust,
To drench the balmy lawn in streaming gore,
To spurn the hero's cold and silent dust—
Are these thy joys? Nor throbs thy heart for more?
63
Pleased canst thou listen to the patriot's groan,
And the wild wail of Innocence forlorn?
And hear the abandon'd maid's last frantic moan,
Her love for ever from her bosom torn?
64
Nor wilt thou shrink, when Virtue's fainting breath
Pours the dread curse of vengeance on thy head?
Nor when the pale ghost bursts the cave of death,
To glare distraction on thy midnight bed?
65
Was it for this, though born to regal power,
Kind Heaven to thee did nobler gifts consign,
Bade Fancy's influence gild thy natal hour,
And bade Philanthropy's applause be thine?
66
Theirs be the dreadful glory to destroy,
And theirs the pride of pomp, and praise suborn'd,
Whose eye ne'er lighten'd at the smile of Joy,
Whose cheek the tear of Pity ne'er adorn'd:
67
Whose soul, each finer sense instinctive quell'd,
The lyre's mellifluous ravishment defies:
Nor marks where Beauty roves the flowery field,
Or Grandeur's pinion sweeps the unbounded skies.
68
Hail to sweet Fancy's unexpressive charm!
Hail to the pure delights of social love!
Hail, pleasures mild, that fire not while ye warm,
Nor rack the exulting frame, but gently move!
69
But Fancy soothes no more, if stern remorse
With iron grasp the tortured bosom wring.
Ah then! even Fancy speeds the venom's course,
Even Fancy points with rage the maddening sting.
70
Her wrath a thousand gnashing fiends attend,
And roll the snakes, and toss the brands of hell;
The beam of Beauty blasts: dark heavens impend
Tottering: and Music thrills with startling yell.
71
What then avails, that with exhaustless store
Obsequious Luxury loads thy glittering shrine?
What then avails, that prostrate slaves adore,
And Fame proclaims thee matchless and divine?
72
What though bland Flattery all her arts apply?
Will these avail to calm the infuriate brain?
Or will the roaring surge, when heaved on high,
Headlong hang, hush'd, to hear the piping swain?
73
In health how fair, how ghastly in decay
Man's lofty form! how heavenly fair the mind
Sublimed by Virtue's sweet enlivening sway!
But ah! to guilt's outrageous rule resign'd.
74
How hideous and forlorn! when ruthless Care
With cankering tooth corrodes the seeds of life,
And deaf with passion's storms when pines Despair,
And howling furies rouse the eternal strife.
75
Oh, by thy hopes of joy that restless glow,
Pledges of Heaven! be taught by Wisdom's lore;
With anxious haste each doubtful path forego,
And life's wild ways with cautious fear explore.
76
Straight be thy course: nor tempt the maze that leads
Where fell Remorse his shapeless strength conceals,
And oft Ambition's dizzy cliff he treads,
And slumbers oft in Pleasure's flowery vales.
77
Nor linger unresolved: Heaven prompts the choice,
Save when Presumption shuts the ear of Pride:
With grateful awe attend to Nature's voice,
The voice of Nature Heaven ordain'd thy guide.
78
Warn'd by her voice the arduous path pursue,
That leads to Virtue's fane a hardy band:
What though no gaudy scenes decoy their view,
Nor clouds of fragrance roll along the land?
79
What though rude mountains heave the flinty way?
Yet there the soul drinks light and life divine,
And pure aërial gales of gladness play,
Brace every nerve, and every sense refine.
80
Go, prince, be virtuous and be blest. The throne
Rears not its state to swell the couch of Lust:
Nor dignify Corruption's daring son,
To o'erwhelm his humbler brethren of the dust.
81
But yield an ampler scene to Bounty's eye,
An ampler range to Mercy's ear expand:
And, 'midst admiring nations, set on high
Virtue's fair model, framed by Wisdom's hand.
82
Go then: the moan of Woe demands thine aid:
Pride's licensed outrage claims thy slumbering ire:
Pale Genius roams the bleak neglected shade,
And battening Avarice mocks his tuneless lyre.
83
Even Nature pines, by vilest chains oppress'd:
The astonish'd kingdoms crouch to Fashion's nod.
O ye pure inmates of the gentle breast,
Truth, Freedom, Love, O where is your abode?
84
O yet once more shall Peace from heaven return,
And young Simplicity with mortals dwell!
Nor Innocence the august pavilion scorn,
Nor meek Contentment fly the humble cell!
85
Wilt thou, my prince, the beauteous train implore
'Midst earth's forsaken scenes once more to bide?
Then shall the shepherd sing in every bower,
And Love with garlands wreathe the domes of Pride.
86
The bright tear starting in the impassion'd eyes
Of silent Gratitude: the smiling gaze
Of Gratulation, faltering while he tries
With voice of transport to proclaim thy praise:
87
The ethereal glow that stimulates thy frame,
When all the according powers harmonious move,
And wake to energy each social aim,
Attuned spontaneous to the will of Jove:
88
Be these, O man, the triumphs of thy soul;
And all the conqueror's dazzling glories slight,
That meteor-like o'er trembling nations roll,
To sink at once in deep and dreadful night.
89
Like thine, yon orb's stupendous glories burn
With genial beam; nor, at the approach of even,
In shades of horror leave the world to mourn,
But gild with lingering light the empurpled heaven.'
90
Thus while she spoke, her eye, sedately meek,
Look'd the pure fervour of maternal love.
No rival zeal intemperate flush'd her cheek—
Can Beauty's boast the soul of Wisdom move?
91
Worth's noble pride, can Envy's leer appal,
Or staring Folly's vain applauses soothe?
Can jealous Fear Truth's dauntless heart enthrall?
Suspicion lurks not in the heart of Truth.
92
And now the shepherd raised his pensive head:
Yet unresolved and fearful roved his eyes,
Scared at the glances of the awful maid;
For young unpractised Guilt distrusts the guise
93
Of shameless Arrogance.—His wavering breast,
Though warm'd by Wisdom, own'd no constant fire,
While lawless Fancy roam'd afar, unblest
Save in the oblivious lap of soft Desire.
94
When thus the queen of soul-dissolving smiles:
'Let gentler fate my darling prince attend,
Joyless and cruel are the warrior's spoils,
Dreary the path stern Virtue's sons ascend.
95
Of human joy full short is the career,
And the dread verge still gains upon your sight;
While idly gazing far beyond your sphere,
Ye scan the dream of unapproach'd delight:
96
Till every sprightly hour and blooming scene
Of life's gay morn unheeded glides away,
And clouds of tempests mount the blue serene,
And storms and ruin close the troublous day.
97
Then still exult to hail the present joy,
Thine be the boon that comes unearn'd by toil;
No forward vain desire thy bliss annoy,
No flattering hope thy longing hours beguile.
98
Ah! why should man pursue the charms of Fame,
For ever luring, yet for ever coy?
Light as the gaudy rainbow's pillar'd gleam,
That melts illusive from the wondering boy!
99
What though her throne irradiate many a clime,
If hung loose-tottering o'er the unfathom'd tomb?
What though her mighty clarion, rear'd sublime,
Display the imperial wreath and glittering plume?
100
Can glittering plume, or can the imperial wreath
Redeem from unrelenting fate the brave?
What note of triumph can her clarion breathe,
To alarm the eternal midnight of the grave?
101
That night draws on: nor will the vacant hour
Of expectation linger as it flies:
Nor fate one moment unenjoy'd restore:
Each moment's flight how precious to the wise!
102
O shun the annoyance of the bustling throng,
That haunt with zealous turbulence the great:
There coward Office boasts the unpunish'd wrong,
And sneaks secure in insolence of state.
103
O'er fancied injury Suspicion pines,
And in grim silence gnaws the festering wound:
Deceit the rage-embitter'd smile refines,
And Censure spreads the viperous hiss around.
104
Hope not, fond prince, though Wisdom guard thy throne,
Though Truth and Bounty prompt each generous aim,
Though thine the palm of peace, the victor's crown,
The Muse's rapture, and the patriot's flame:
105
Hope not, though all that captivates the wise,
All that endears the good exalt thy praise:
Hope not to taste repose: for Envy's eyes
At fairest worth still point their deadly rays.
106
Envy, stern tyrant of the flinty heart,
Can aught of Virtue, Truth, or Beauty charm?
Can soft Compassion thrill with pleasing smart,
Repentance melt, or Gratitude disarm?
107
Ah no. Where Winter Scythia's waste enchains,
And monstrous shapes roar to the ruthless storm,
Not Phoebus' smile can cheer the dreadful plains,
Or soil accursed with balmy life inform.
108
Then, Envy, then is thy triumphant hour,
When mourns Benevolence his baffled scheme:
When Insult mocks the clemency of Power,
And loud dissension's livid firebrands gleam:
109
When squint-eyed Slander plies the unhallow'd tongue,
From poison'd maw when Treason weaves his line,
And Muse apostate (infamy to song!)
Grovels, low muttering, at Sedition's shrine.
110
Let not my prince forego the peaceful shade,
The whispering grove, the fountain and the plain:
Power, with the oppressive weight of pomp array'd,
Pants for simplicity and ease in vain.
111
The yell of frantic Mirth may stun his ear,
But frantic Mirth soon leaves the heart forlorn;
And Pleasure flies that high tempestuous sphere:
Far different scenes her lucid paths adorn.
112
She loves to wander on the untrodden lawn,
Or the green bosom of reclining hill,
Soothed by the careless warbler of the dawn,
Or the lone plaint of ever-murmuring rill.
113
Or from the mountain glade's aërial brow,
While to her song a thousand echoes call,
Marks the wide woodland wave remote below,
Where shepherds pipe unseen, and waters fall.
114
Her influence oft the festive hamlet proves,
Where the high carol cheers the exulting ring;
And oft she roams the maze of wildering groves,
Listening the unnumber'd melodies of Spring.
115
Or to the long and lonely shore retires;
What time, loose-glimmering to the lunar beam,
Faint heaves the slumberous wave, and starry fires
Gild the blue deep with many a lengthening gleam.
116
Then to the balmy bower of Rapture borne,
While strings self-warbling breathe Elysian rest,
Melts in delicious vision, till the morn
Spangle with twinkling dew the flowery waste.
117
The frolic Moments, purple-pinion'd, dance
Around, and scatter roses as they play;
And the blithe Graces, hand in hand, advance,
Where, with her loved compeers, she deigns to stray;
118
Mild Solitude, in veil of rustic dye,
Her sylvan spear with moss-grown ivy bound;
And Indolence, with sweetly languid eye,
And zoneless robe that trails along the ground;
119
But chiefly Love—O thou, whose gentle mind
Each soft indulgence Nature framed to share;
Pomp, wealth, renown, dominion, all resign'd,
Oh, haste to Pleasure's bower, for Love is there.
120
Love, the desire of Gods! the feast of heaven!
Yet to Earth's favour'd offspring not denied!
Ah! let not thankless man the blessing given
Enslave to Fame, or sacrifice to Pride.
121
Nor I from Virtue's call decoy thine ear;
Friendly to Pleasure are her sacred laws:
Let Temperance' smile the cup of gladness cheer;
That cup is death, if he withhold applause.
122
Far from thy haunt be Envy's baneful sway,
And Hate, that works the harass'd soul to storm;
But woo Content to breathe her soothing lay,
And charm from Fancy's view each angry form.
123
No savage joy the harmonious hours profane!
Whom Love refines, can barbarous tumults please?
Shall rage of blood pollute the sylvan reign?
Shall Leisure wanton in the spoils of Peace?
124
Free let the feathery race indulge the song,
Inhale the liberal beam, and melt in love:
Free let the fleet hind bound her hills along,
And in pure streams the watery nations rove.
125
To joy in Nature's universal smile
Well suits, O man, thy pleasurable sphere;
But why should Virtue doom thy years to toil?
Ah! why should Virtue's laws be deem'd severe?
126
What meed, Beneficence, thy care repays?
What, Sympathy, thy still returning pang?
And why his generous arm should Justice raise,
To dare the vengeance of a tyrant's fang?
127
From thankless spite no bounty can secure;
Or froward wish of discontent fulfil,
That knows not to regret thy bounded power,
But blames with keen reproach thy partial will.
128
To check the impetuous all-involving tide
Of human woes, how impotent thy strife!
High o'er thy mounds devouring surges ride,
Nor reck thy baffled toils, or lavish'd life.
129
The bower of bliss, the smile of love be thine,
Unlabour'd ease, and leisure's careless dream.
Such be their joys who bend at Venus' shrine,
And own her charms beyond compare supreme.'
130
Warm'd as she spoke, all panting with delight,
Her kindling beauties breathed triumphant bloom;
And Cupids flutter'd round in circlets bright,
And Flora pour'd from all her stores perfume.
131
'Thine be the prize,' exclaim'd the enraptured youth,
'Queen of unrivall'd charms, and matchless joy.'—
O blind to fate, felicity, and truth!
But such are they whom Pleasure's snares decoy.
132
The Sun was sunk; the vision was no more;
Night downward rush'd tempestuous, at the frown
Of Jove's awaken'd wrath: deep thunders roar,
And forests howl afar, and mountains groan,
133
And sanguine meteors glare athwart the plain;
With horror's scream the Ilian towers resound,
Raves the hoarse storm along the bellowing main,
And the strong earthquake rends the shuddering ground.
Where waving Pines the brows of Ida shade,
The swain young Paris half supinely laid,
Saw the loose Flocks thro' shrubs unnumber'd rove
And Piping call'd them to the gladded grove.
'Twas there he met the Message of the skies,
That he the Judge of Beauty deal the prize.
The Message known, one Love with anxious mind,
To make his Mother guard the time assign'd,
Drew forth her proud white Swans, and trac'd the pair
That wheel her Chariot in the purple air:
A golden Bow behind his shoulder bends,
A golden Quiver at his side depends,
Pointing to these he nods, with fearless State,
And bids her safely meet the grand Debate.
Another Love proceeds with anxious care
To make his Iv'ry sleek the shining hair,
Moves the loose Curls and bids the Forehead shew
In full Expansion all its native snow.
A third enclasps the many colour'd Cest
And rul'd by Fancy sets the silver Vest,
When to her Sons with intermingl'd sighs
The Goddess of the rosy lips applies.
'Tis now my darling boys a time to shew
The love you feel, the filial aids you owe:
Yet would we think that any dar'd to strive
For Charms, when Venus and her Loves alive?
Or should the prize of beauty be deni'd,
Has Beauty's Empress ought to boast beside?
And ting'd with Poison, pleasing while it harms,
My Darts I trusted to your infant arms;
If, when your hands have arch'd the golden Bow,
The World's great Ruler bending owns the blow,
Let no contending Form invade my due,
Tall Juno's Mein, nor Pallas Eyes of blew.
But grac'd with Triumph, to the Paphian shore,
Your Venus bears the Palms of Conquest o'er,
And joyful see my hundred Altars there
With costly Gums perfume the wanton air.
While thus the Cupids hear the Cyprian Dame,
The groves resounded where a Goddess came.
The warlike Pallas march'd with mighty stride,
Her Shield forgot, her Helmet laid aside.
Her Hair unbound, in curls and order flow'd,
And Peace, or something like, her Visage shew'd;
So with her eyes serene and hopeful haste,
The long stretch'd Allys of the Wood she trac'd.
But where the Woods a second Entrance found,
With Scepter'd Pomp, and Golden Glory crown'd
The stately Juno stalk'd, to reach the Seat,
And hear the Sentence in the last Debate,
And long, severely long resent the Grove;
In this, what boots it, she's the wife of Jove.
Arm'd with a Grace, at length, secure to win,
The lovely Venus smiling enters in;
All sweet and shining near the Youth she drew,
Her rosy Neck ambrosial odours threw;
The sacred Scents diffus'd among the leaves,
Ran down the Woods and fill'd their hoary Caves;
The Charms, so am'rous all, and each so great,
The conquer'd Judge no longer keeps his Seat;
Oppress'd with Light, he drops his weary'd eyes
And fears he should be thought to doubt the Prize.
Woe to cages and their bars- -
Lock downs - so subdued...
Thickened air - closing in
Lack of freedom in years accrued;
Longings, yes, deepest longings
For the natural of mating calls...
Her desire - an ever burning fire
Elevated hopes - with way too many falls;
Too many WRONG turns - bent on desire! !
Too much numb when needed to protect...
A fearless soul-her mistakes have taken their toll
It really is:  'Cause & Affect';
Here's to someday for Beverly Ann...
Here's to Baccus and celebration's grand- -
Here's to revelry without 'normal conscience'
Here's to liberation's - mighty hand;
Someday will become her free day...
As she sails through her appetites of long desires
Lusting for nearly everything in the world...
Someday, come what may, comes a quenching of her blazing fire;
By, Theodora  Onken
April  26,2016
^5
(62)
A drought is almost like despair,
but then there comes a flood.
The cycles of the patient earth,
run deep within our blood.
The seasons of the sun revolve,
like seabirds in a gyre.
We pray for sacred rain to come,
and quench damnation's fire.
The universe, forever mute,
yet offers up a clue.
For only blessings we protect,
are those that we are due.
So we must tend the garden well,
and shun the serpent's lair,
and double down our firm resolve,
to fight perdition's snare.
~~~~~
Written as a response to the withdrawal from The Paris Climate Accord.
Somewhere, always.........
A child is born and cries out loud.
I exist!
A child is adopted and feels her first bed
I am home!
A young girl befriends the new girl in school
I am here!
A young boy on a cloud just had his first kiss
I am in heaven!
A young groom takes his lovely bride by the hand
I am yours!
A father lifts his daughter high over head.
I am flying!
A mother reads to her son in bed at night.
I am safe!
A Grandmother teaches her grandchild confidence.
I am bright!
A Grandfather shows his grandchild how to fish.
I am special!
A wife toasts her sleepy husband a New Years Wish
I am happy!
A husband rubs her tired shoulders in appreciation
I am lucky!
A poet types away knowing good people will prevail
I am certain
A quiet peace in knowing that at this very moment
There is love.
Keep the faith.........
As one who, groping in a narrow stair,
Hath a strong sound of bells upon his ears,
Which, being at a distance off, appears
Quite close to him because of the pent air:
So with this France. She stumbles file and square
Darkling and without space for breath: each one
Who hears the thunder says: “It shall anon
Be in among her ranks to scatter her.”
This may be; and it may be that the storm
Is spent in rain upon the unscathed seas,
Or wasteth other countries ere it die:
Till she,—having climbed always through the swarm
Of darkness and of hurtling sound,—from these
Shall step forth on the light in a still sky.
The one with brown eyes and brown hair her Hometown is Paris in France
She has such a sweet singing voice and to music she loves to dance
She is in her twenty fourth year and happy in her single life
For some very lucky young man she will make a beautiful wife.
Her accent is easy to love like the lilt to a beautiful song
Of her voice one never could tire I'd listen to her all day long
To this Town she's like a breath of fresh air not many French people live here
Except for the rare tourist who stop for a break from travel I meet one perhaps once a year.
She has such an old World charm and she has such a beautiful face
And she doesn't find it hard for to smile a woman of charm and grace
'Twould be nice if here she did settle but in our Town I know she won't stay
The young woman from Paris in France from home she is so far away.
She says she will go home next year in beautiful May of the Spring
In the green parks of Paris in France she will hear the birds whistle and sing
And on the verandah of her old home with family and friends out of the glare of the sunshine
She will sing along in the sing song as she enjoys a glass of good French made wine.
I want to look into her dreamy eyes, But she turns them away and my heart sighs. I want to hold her hand and intertwine our fingures, But my
ennocent youthful sweat lingures.I want to embrace her in my arms to cuddle, But when I raise them there is no mass, no muscle.I want to feel
her soft lips in a sweet pashoinet kiss, But mine turn into a dry desert abyss.Then it is time for our day to end along with my first date gidder,
but I carry her sent with me to remember.
Pari Fermier
like the countries they are from
cheese in all shapes and sizes
Pari Fermier
the artist shops for a farmer
to work as model
Pari Fermier
he says he is only interested
in their cheese
Pari Fermier
when talks about food ring
louder than art
The finest of farmers markets, the Pari Fermier brings together up to 200 independent, small-scale producers six times a year for four days, in or around Paris. Pick up goodies like cider from Normandy, spice cake from Languedoc-Roussillon, honey from the Auvergne, walnuts from the Périgord, and, of course, fine cheeses from all over the country, and watch chef demonstrations with exhibitors' ingredients during the next fair, October 17-20.
Paris spring
street by street we explore
the city like a flower
Paris spring
slowly but surely the city
blooms in us
Paris spring
foot by foot
we explore the city
Eiffel Tower spring
the city lights up
our dreams
Eiffel Tower spring
the city spreads out
like our dreams
They say springtime in Paris is the stuff of songs, daydreams, and romance novels. And there is a heavy dose of truth to that. Cruise the Seine River, admire art at the Louvre and the Musée d'Orsay, and see the quintessential Parisian sights of the Arc de Triomphe and Notre Dame. Enjoy a good book and coffee at a café on the Champs-Elysées, have a picnic of fresh bread and cheese in the Tuileries Garden, or take in a dinner show at The Moulin Rouge. Cap off your trip with an evening ascent up the Eiffel Tower to witness the City of Lights in full glory.
Ved en Vens Afrejse til Paris!'
Mel. Jeg er et Søndagsbarn!
Hør Venners Stemme: drik og spiis!
Thi snart, saa er Du i Paris,
Og nyder der, ja, Gud veed hvad,
Men det er ei den danske Mad!
Paa Boulevarden skal Du gaae;
Gud give at vi saae derpaa!
I Omnibus og i Coucou,
Hvo er saa lystig vel, som Du!
Vi see Dig alt halv udenlandsk,
Grisetter smaa Dig lære Fransk;
Du reiser bort som Nordens Iis,
Men kommer hjem som — ak Paris!
Du oversættes skal paa Fransk,
Originalen er dog Dansk,
Dit Træk med Hovedet, dit Smiil -
Nei, aldrig glemmes det Emil!
Skjøndt Hjertet sidder lidt paatvers,
Skal Visen aande kun Comers!
Igjennem Taarer kan man lee!
Farvel! farvel! det Bedste skee!
she wrote
'Happiness is....
Walking the streets
of Paris & breathing
in the magical scents
of the boulangeries
on the winter air.'
I replied
'Happiness is....
Walking in the rain
at sunrise sunset noontime
anytime rain snow or shine
when love two paired hearts
entwines in love time divine.'
Dedicated to Hayley Westerna.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock and Hayley Westerna.
Wedding in Paris
Coming out of the church after the wedding there were
smiles and cameras clicked, from the steps I could look
down into a park, a tramp was going through a bin
looking for something to eat, he found and ate what looked
like a half eaten pizza. With all the clatter going on
I slipped away, had a whisky in a bar across the road,
saw the tramp coming out of the park, my idea was to give
him some money for food, but I was self-conscious and
hated the thought of looking patronizing so I had another
whisky instead.
Weekend in Paris by Mr. Chip's
Couldn't speak a word of French
But Neither could you
We walked the miles of Parisian streets
The Eiffel Tower in view!
There it was finally,
standing tall, such a work of excellence
Another man's work of art,
turning man into love birds that gather but in all seasons
Just to admire the beauty..
To confess, propose, to cherish love
This was the Eiffel Tower.
The warmth of the love radiating from all
the people made the snow a decor.
'Tu es belle', i said as i handed you a rose
you lit up more than the stars themselves.
The acute smile together with your beautiful eyes,
complimenting that funny nose.
I skip a beat as i fall in love once again.
A gentle kiss on your forehead while you are
at your most vulnerable self..
Coy, anxious, happy, excited...that chubby baby face
'Je t'aime plus chaque jour', as i closed the case..
Sadly i wake up and its a broken movie
and this was just a scene.
Reality is actually far from how everything seems..
We are worlds apart, yet i still dream
but sad truth remains, we shall never have Paris.
Writing this in sepia ink on a Japanese fan,
pain slants my calligraphy
this way, sex just under the cap of my skull.
Dreams taunt your existence
as you swish by in raw silk
until the words I use lose meaning
and my best lines twang like limp
old lace. This metaphor thick with blood
trembles as my mind approaches the blank
folds in the rice paper, writing
on your arms, this scrawl scrolling
through you, each letter a link in the chain
between my head and the bed, a text
of splintering syllables in which
time comes apart, pricking your skin –
the joke’s our meaning, gnarled
with the word-knots coming undone
where your breast shines with the sepia
ink and the sheets blot out thinking.
Smudged with love, your bum’s a haze
of lavender oil as I rub this in.
My heart is a wanderer in love
May it ever remain so
Roaming in the pathless land
In a caravan
Just going where the winds blow...
Sometimes rendered miserable
Blown in all directions
In search of my eternal love fable
Inspite of all defections
Always singing the song of love....
Longing for the moon
Searching in the dunes
Will only be still when it becomes crystal
That there is no breath left
For me to fulfill.....
As real as air, earth and water
As real as a lovers fight
As real as teh laughter
Of a child in delight....
As real as the expanse of the sea
As real what lurks underneath
As real as the lovers glee
Of an unexpected rendevous....
Come and touch my heart
And make me real
Gaze into the depth of my soul
Make it sublime and surreal....
Whilst riding on the phantoms of my musings
I came across thee and I thought
Are you a reflection of my soul
Are you the reverbration of my drum
Are you the truth that will make me whole
Are you the song that I will hum
throught the night and the next
till I am blessed
with an appearance of thee
infront of me
elevating me
uplifting me
taking me
from finite to infinite
from consciousness to unconsciousness
from earth to heaven
from water to vapor
from darkness to light
from wrong to right
from hell to heaven
from here to oblivion
where only two souls exist
yours and mine
and we revel in it
we dwell in it
we bask in it
we shine
whre you are mine
where we are lost
in just each othere
nothing else exists
where its bliss
where we are blessed
where we can rest
in the light of each other
where there is no other
than you and me
me and you
phew! !
I wish you to unfold me
I wish you to hold me
I wish you to undress me
I wish you to bless me
I wish you to ravage me
I wish you to savage me
I wish you to blaze me
I wish you to daze me
I wish you to love me
Love me to death
I wish you to smother me
Smother me with your love
I wish you to inspire me
Inspire me to sing
Sing with you
Together
Where we can view
and feel
A garden of paradise
Untie the knot for me
of your deep inner secrets....
Give me the key
of your inner fantasies
where u have been drowning....
Let me swim in the sea
of your dreams, desires and longings....
Let me unravel the mysteries
of your mind
thats made you blind
thats been raging in you
tormenting you
spending you
lusting in you
bursting in you.
Come...
touch me
and feel the peace
walk into your soul....
The storm will cease.
Feel the calm
like a balm.
Stop searching
and yearning.
Feel my aura...
Embrace it
If you hug me close
you can share it....
You sing
I will be the mountain and hold your voice deep inside
You feel
I will be the earth and keep your vibrations in my core
You cry
I will be the ocean keeping your sacred drops alive
You chant
I will be the holy hymn, we shall soar
You fly
I will be the sky, always holding you high
You dance
I will be the music that you wore
Weave me into you
You, the warp and I, the weft
In between, no space left
If anyone tried to tear
Will fail, because we will share
A bond
So strong
With
An amalgation of our spirits
No you
No me
Only We
Only We
I am the warp, you are the weft
I am the ground, you are the step
I am the lantern, you are the light
I am the eyes, you are the sight
I am the touch, you are the sensation
I am the drum, you are the reverbration
I am the mirror, you are the reflection
I am the drop, you are the ocean
I am the spirit, you are the soul
I am the silly heart that you stole
Today I dont want to close my eyes
My heart tells me that your image is going to fly
From the horizon of my heart to its beyond
I want to capture the image forever in the pond
A sacred reflection into which I can dip
When the sun is too strong and sip
its drops when i want to quench my thirst
When my throat is parched and I want to burst
Into a song.....
Swirling mysteries of my psyche
Come explore it with a tender hand
The essence is hidden in the bark of the tree
The sap is like nectar of the divine land
You have to enter untying your robes
Layer by layer revealing the core
Naked in all your majestic beauty
Our spirits entwining, together we soar
Oceans part, thousands new moons appear
With the energy of our combined kundalinis
Infinite flutes start playing music to the ears
Intoxicated, the beings start spinning
The sun will be eclipsed
With the sheer fire set ablaze
The dark sky will be illumined
The stars will twirl in a daze
Then my love, we will cease to be
Moving away towards infinity
Finally the doors will open for us
Our light shall always fluoresce
You are like the mountain of ice
And am I the summer?
Thawing you from your stony guise
The water now trickling in the river
Is it the end of your long winter?
In anticipation, I quiver
Little by little
Inch by inch
You let me come in
Still a long journey ahead
For the river to join the ocean
We shall softly tread
Just enjoy the motion
Of the long ride
I just implore
To not to close yourself
We shall explore
The land of the elves
Laugh with me
Run with me
Dance with me
Explore with me
And
We shall run away with the key
To happiness
Your kiss, your gaze or your breath
What do I cherish more?
Your breath that I breathed
Suffusing me to the core
Sanctifying me.....
Have kept it inside safely stored
Every breath that I breathe
Intermingles with it and roars
Ecstatic in its union
Electrifying me....
Keeping me alive.
I wish I was the morning wind
Gently brushing against your skin
I wish I was a ray of sunlight
Giving you warmth that would stay through the night
I wish I was a dropp of wine
That mingled in your blood making it my shrine
I wish I was the fragrance
In the garden of love where you were a prince
I wish I was the spring
In your life with blossoms spreading their wings
I wish I was your breath
Enervating you, keeping you alive
Flooding streams
Soaring wings
Musical dreams
Passion sings
Vivid blue sky
You and I
Scented breeze
Undulating hills
Swaying trees
Height that thrills
Swinging high
You and I
Dripping chocolate
Luscious grapes
Candlelight date
Behind the drapes
Clothes fly
You and I
Sensual delights
Skin on skin
Reaching new heights
Deep within
Hoarse cries
You and I
Last night I dreamt of you
Continuing what we couldnt complete
Our salivas intermingling
Lips travelling from head to feet
Mmmm...whole body tingling
Bare on the sheet
Our souls singing....
You, the hunter
And I, the prey
And then
The prey becomes the hunter
Satiating our hunger
But the bodies are not enough
Our thirst goes deep
To dive into the soul
To make each other complete
Where its pure and divine
We dont feel the heat
Happy in our respective shrines
We are floating
amidst pristine white clouds
Thousands of angels
Come out and enshroud
Showering us with rose petals
And we are endowed
With their blessings.....
Lets drink the wine of love...
Swirl it and soak it in...
Smell the fragrance
Mmm...and the scent of heaven
A song in our hearts
Smile in the eyes
Love to keep us fulfilled
For the rest of our lives...
Soar out to our dreams
Swim out from the streams
To join the ocean of love
And discover...
The world of paradise.
Knocking the doors
Of my senses
My heart soars....
Urgent whispers, getting crisper
Beckoning, calling
My heart stirs...
Voices from past life?
Heart pierced by his knife
My heart cries....
Open the Door
Whats in store
My heart roars....
Oh God, whats that?
Bolt the doors
My heart combats....
I cant be yours
Let me be.
My heart implores....
In  peace
That my plea
My heart is on lease...
Lets open the gates
To our next lifetime
My heart waits...
Words hovering around the fringes of my mind
Refusing to emerge out
All coiled up, frozen and entwined
Have been sitting for hours in this drought
My page is empty
Damn!
Can only write when I am drunk
Drunk on your love
Drunk on you
Beware, my Love
Of the thunder
That we will encounter
When we touch
Beware, my love
Of the Rain
The outpourings of the pain
For the lost time
Beware, my love
Of the lightning
The resurrection that it will bring
Of our dormant desires
Beware, my Love
Of the flood
The mingling of our blood
When our skins dissolve
Beware, my Love
Of the reverbration
The resounding celebration
Of Our eternal Embrace
A shadow with me all day
No body
This is crazy, this is crazy
Notes of a scintillating flute
No flutist
This is crazy, this is crazy
Breathtaking verse on paper
I was sleeping
This is crazy, this is crazy
Vermilion laden sky
Sunrise or sunset?
This is crazy, this is crazy
Dishevelled clothes, swollen lips
You came in my dream
I am crazy, I am crazy
Or is this the only sanity? ?
When will the warmth of your cheek rest against mine?
When will the stream of kisses gush on my ravine?
When will your heartbeat rhyme with mine?
When will I stop writing these verses and become thine?
When will the fire of love envelop us and enshrine?
When will the winter suddenly get warm with our heat combined?
When will we be drunk on each other and not need any wine?
When will the moon become bewitched with our embrace divine?
My budding love
My flowering soul
My blooming heart
My blossoming whole
Intoxicating fragrance
Butterflies that dance
Dancing dew
Sparkling hue
Velvety skin
Drenched within
My house is full of roses
The fragrance seeping through my skin
Into my blood racing to the heart
Permeating and settling within
I am intoxicated not by its fragrance
But by your streaming presence
Waking, sleeping, in everything that I do
Your thoughts have possessed me through and through
I want to become....
A dropp with no thoughts
A stop that no one sought
Nothingness so that I can absorb
Empty so that I can fill
Until
I fill You in
And Illuminate
In Your sight
And
I become Your ray...
You, my light.......
I just want to keep looking at you
What have you done to me, baby?
Your smile quenches my inner thirst
The spark in your eye lights up my being
I feel alive
Like a germinating seed after a winter freeze
I feel light
Like a butterfly kissing the blushing blossoms
I feel beautiful
Like the full moon getting slowly uncovered
I feel complete
Like the parched earth after a thunderous rain
I am almost afraid to touch you
Lest my dream come to an end
When do you want our breaths to meet?
When do you want our souls to touch?
When do you want to feel the heat?
And make me drunk on our love?
When do you want our gazes to entwine?
And then taste each others sweetness?
When do you want our dreams to be love lined?
When do you want to surrender to this madness?
I was drunk with the sobriety of my love
Wandering with a passion of a possessed soul
Swimming in the azure waters of my wonderous cove
Thought that I had discovered love that was whole
In your light, the rays that touched me set me ablaze
Torching a flame in my heart, urging a song
To give, to surrender, to live forever in this love haze
And to live in this radiant light for as long
as the fire crackled in this warm universe
and the monsoon made love to this thirsty earth
Drenched in this ecstasy, I let the beauty dance
Unleashing a rapturous force that shook my soul
Breathing new life in me with just one of your glance
Words pouring out to celebrate this romance
In this dawn of hope, he came with a searing kiss
And woke me up from this languid dream
where I had got lost in the timeless bliss
Now completely awake, dazzled by the sunbeams
Groping in the darkness of my subconscious
All I remembered, t'was a dream...so sensuous
Lost in the vortex of my thoughts
Seeking a vision that got lost
Fire consumed or a lost monsoon
Parched earth awaiting a boon
A solitary traveller in an undulating desert
that got lost....
Come show me the way
In your light, everything is clear
And its a sunny day
In your absence, its all dark and queer
All thoughts gone astray
Come show me the way
In your sound, everything is music to the ears
To which I dance and sway
In your absence, cacophony blares
All notes dark and gray
Come show me the way
In your touch, everything is pure
With a bright spark and a ray
In your absence, cannot endure
Even my own skin, t'is like clay
Thou shalt not laugh, thou shalt not romp,
Let's grimly kiss with bated breath;
As quietly and solemnly
As Life when it is kissing Death.
Now in the silence of the grave,
My hand is squeezing that soft breast;
While thou dost in such passion lie,
It mocks me with its look of rest.
But when the morning comes at last,
And we must part, our passions cold,
You'll think of some new feather, scarf
To buy with my small piece of gold;
And I'll be dreaming of green lanes,
Where little things with beating hearts
Hold shining eyes between the leaves,
Till men with horses pass, and carts.
A moment of passion so easily shared,
with no fear or regret.
The memories flood through my mind,
a moment of passion I'll never forget.
A moment of passion is like a drug,
it takes me so high.
Needing to get another fix,
a moment of passion can never lie
A moment of passion when we are alone,
you desire it too.
Unable to control it,
a moment of passion shared with you.
You eclipse me & I have stained the Sun with black love...
death from a bottle cools my ardour
for a while, until I see you again.
The damp distance is bleached
then blackened with shadows
& flocks of shrill birds, screaming for blood
Bound hands grow swollen
body – silently numbed
a bed on fire I laid upon
now reddened with burning life
In these blistered hours of insomnia
objects are like lead
I believe they are other things & less than they are
as if fewer of them would create
a stillness like sleep
— if only to dream of her again
The cushions beckon in the mirror
white & summoning, judicious
the bed reflected in that fantasy land,
that round pool of hope
Why stir dust on a sacred tomb
as I lay down with a prayer for darkness
a snowflake melts on her virgin eyelids
somewhere & now, together again
we drink every breath of poisoned air
she asleep, I awake...
Not believing in resurrection —
I stroll through cemeteries
looking for her name, not wanting to see it
the damp brown earth reminds me
every hour we breathe is our last;
victims don’t want blind skies
their toil & consistency as mortals
are truer religions than faith itself,
so welcome me as one of them — into your house.
The last star’s neon spark
will be dissolved painlessly.
Morning will knock on the window, still —
like a grey wet wind
slow day will begin to stir.
Livestock shiver in the cold dawn,
some kind of slaughterhouse morn
the blood drained dreams
dissipate, replaced by
perpetual sameness...
Awakened from a long dark dream,
I thought I saw her somewhere in there
the awesome force of sleep’s return
shut me down like wild song
like black amphibious wine
a hollow ghost —
peering senselessly through the cold
window of every lost night
This morning once again
on motionless ground,
& along with it
drinking cold mountain air outside;
refined air, once, our air...
Across the crisp cool valley — white snow
blue mountains of decrepit glass & dream
dissolve, in this fresh green brocade
Hope sparkles in the diamond dew
that mirrors the sun
for a minute
while across the way, beyond this place
despair draws its dark curtain of cloud
over the broken road;
another day annexed,
closer to you again, I come.
We have a passion
For christ
Because our passion for him comes
Straight out of our hearts
And that is the right time to offer him
Our passion
She is falling softly on the floor with thin muslin
Taken down nervously from shoulders.
As will o' the wisps on swamps
Hands turning white with glow of the moon
Hastily to wilderness bodies are wandering
In order to get lost in delight.
She is tilting the head with gilding of the weight
Of soft waving hair with storm-tossed sea.
She is searching for the stronger backrest, stopping
The pressure of the hurricane of desire what kind of Thrusting
the ship onto an iceberg, wants with frenzy
To heat it up and to melt.
She is finding the road for oneself only known
At the longed-for target.
He, patient in his rush knows
That altogether climbed peaks they will record the image
Of unrivalled champion
Of elaborate caresses and delights of imagination
In her eyes.
Now as Heaven is my Lot, they're the Pests of the Nation!
Wherever they can come
With clankum and blankum
'Tis all Botheration, & Hell & Damnation,
With fun, jeering
Conjuring
Sky-staring,
Loungerin g,
And still to the tune of Transmogrification--
Those muttering
Spluttering
Ventriloquogusty
P oets
With no Hats
Or Hats that are rusty.
They're my Torment and Curse
And harass me worse
And bait me and bay me, far sorer I vow
Than the Screech of the Owl
Or the witch-wolf's long howl,
Or sheep-killing Butcher-dog's inward Bow wow
For me they all spite--an unfortunate Wight.
And the very first moment that I came to Light
A Rascal call'd Voss the more to his scandal,
Turn'd me into a sickle with never a handle.
A Night or two after a worse Rogue there came,
The head of the Gang, one Wordsworth by name--
`Ho! What's in the wind?' 'Tis the voice of a Wizzard!
I saw him look at me most terribly blue !
He was hunting for witch-rhymes from great A to Izzard,
And soon as he'd found them made no more ado
But chang'd me at once to a little Canoe.
From this strange Enchantment uncharm'd by degrees
I began to take courage & hop'd for some Ease,
When one Coleridge, a Raff of the self-same Banditti
Past by--& intending no doubt to be witty,
Because I'd th' ill-fortune his taste to displease,
He turn'd up his nose,
And in pitiful Prose
Made me into the half of a small Cheshire Cheese.
Well, a night or two past--it was wind, rain & hail--
And I ventur'd abroad in a thick Cloak & veil--
But the very first Evening he saw me again
The last mentioned Ruffian popp'd out of his Den--
I was resting a moment on the bare edge of Naddle
I fancy the sight of me turn'd his Brains addle--
For what was I now?
A complete Barley-mow
And when I climb'd higher he made a long leg,
And chang'd me at once to an Ostrich's Egg--
But now Heaven be praised in contempt of the Loon,
I am I myself I, the jolly full Moon.
Yet my heart is still fluttering--
For I heard the Rogue muttering--
He was hulking and skulking at the skirt of a Wood
When lightly & brightly on tip-toe I stood
On the long level Line of a motionless Cloud
And ho! what a Skittle-ground! quoth he aloud
And wish'd from his heart nine Nine-pins to see
In brightness & size just proportion'd to me.
So I fear'd from my soul,
That he'd make me a Bowl,
But in spite of his spite
This was more than his might
And still Heaven be prais'd! in contempt of the Loon
I am I myself I, the jolly full Moon.
'Latencies'
Come nearer; do not run in vain,
Will suffice to wander from grief…
Look at me, and you will not notice,
As you have appeared on passion knees …
BARDS of Passion and of Mirth,
Ye have left your souls on earth!
Have ye souls in heaven too,
Doubled-lived in regions new?
Yes, and those of heaven commune
With the spheres of sun and moon;
With the noise of fountains wondrous,
And the parle of voices thund'rous;
With the whisper of heaven's trees
And one another, in soft ease
Seated on Elysian lawns
Browsed by none but Dian's fawns;
Underneath large blue-bells tented,
Where the daisies are rose-scented,
And the rose herself has got
Perfume which on earth is not;
Where the nightingale doth sing
Not a senseless, tranced thing,
But divine melodious truth;
Philosophic numbers smooth;
Tales and golden histories
Of heaven and its mysteries.
Thus ye live on high, and then
On the earth ye live again;
And the souls ye left behind you
Teach us, here, the way to find you,
Where your other souls are joying,
Never slumber'd, never cloying.
Here, your earth-born souls still speak
To mortals, of their little week;
Of their sorrows and delights;
Of their passions and their spites;
Of their glory and their shame;
What doth strengthen and what maim.
Thus ye teach us, every day,
Wisdom, though fled far away.
Bards of Passion and of Mirth,
Ye have left your souls on earth!
Ye have souls in heaven too,
Double-lived in regions new!
I love and appreciate music...
It's very intoxicating.
Everytime I hear a beautiful melody,
It seems like I am taken...
Into another World,
A very beautiful dimension
Full of warmth,
Feelings and passion!
(A poem i didn't know i made...thanks to Lawrence Pertillar, he found it!)
Let me take you hold your body in my arms
Kissing those tender lips long and deep
Can you Feel my passion rise
Let us make love all through the night
Quickly decide, we must not waste a minute of time
Deftly remove all my clothes
Slowly I begin to caress your soft skin
My fingertips start to wander
Feeling the softness of you
Those tender breasts draw my fingers to them
Touching and stroking them
Covering your body with kisses
Over the curve of the breasts
Slowly reaching the nipples peak
Sucking with greedy abandon
The heat of our bodies rapidly rising
Breathing starts to increase
Panting harder wanting you now
Your body inviting
Moulding itself into mine
Thighs parted anticipating
Requesting my body’s presence
Obligingly I settle between them
Connecting to you
So slowly at first bodies moving in time
Reaching deeper into the depths of passion
Increasing the rate of heated attack
Faster rapier like movements
Lust consuming us both
Animalistic instincts taking over
Both wanting our own pleasure
Minds blocked to all other thoughts
Oh the passion
Faster we ride our primeval lust
Peaking explosively together
Tasted the essence of passion
Screaming my name in orgasm
Your body bucks with mine
We are as one, engulfed in each other
Passion Flower recalls
The agony of His death
Nature thus reflects
i see the passion in your eyes
i feel the warmth of your embrace
i see every curve and crevice
in the beauty of your face.
i've seen the passion in you rise
to a boiling point of no return
and the touch of you
to my skin burn.
in you is the beauty of the stars
and the depth of the universe
and at the same time
the emptiness of space
to capture you, a long frenzy race.
for your beauty is far beyond compare
and is something that i'm willing to share
Except for the love that i know is locked up inside.
for when this love is finally set free
you will hear all church bells ring.
this love will touch every mans soul
and the core of all their hearts
and pull up feelings which they
did not know could exist.
and turn their lives into 'heavenly bliss'.
this is the passion that you have within
and if not reached, a downright sin,
Your kiss was the first and everlasting
impression you had given me, that
I knew would last a lifetime
Through the innocence of our hearts
we were babes in arms, waltzing to
the soft music of love, dusted with a
touch of pasion glazed  with fire that
torched each of our souls
Its funny how time can surpass most
unpleasant memories, and at the same
time can capsulate the moments that
brought us to our peak of happiness,
but it yet has found a way to  remember
not to forget your soft burning lips sealing
my ageless desire of innocent pasion.....
As  wish - all the best of love
that may  whisper you reveling
very depth of light yet unplumbed
enlightened with wisdom of love
as blue moon beams luminous
when its spirit rocks the earth
as we may muse and sway
in our own glory of living resonant
the very excellence of gift
in the harvest of moon in unison
in our verse and universe,
being led away yet by the light of love
as bestowed upon as in search
to the quest of passion afloat
as we traverse our time
to excel in the path to shine
holding the hands together
yet a rave review as rooming
a stance as  when as aspired
to keep the soul blazing unified
in all being safe and sheltered
On the Banks of the Severn a desperate Maid
(Whom some Shepherd, neglecting his Vows, had betray'd,)
Stood resolving to banish all Sense of the Pain,
And pursue, thro' her Death, a Revenge on the Swain.
Since the Gods, and my Passion, at once he defies;
Since his Vanity lives, whilst my Character dies;
No more (did she say) will I trifle with Fate,
But commit to the Waves both my Love and my Hate.
And now to comply with that furious Desire,
Just ready to plunge, and alone to expire,
Some Reflection on Death, and its Terrors untry'd,
Some Scorn for the Shepherd, some Flashings of Pride
At length pull'd her back, and she cry'd, Why this Strife,
Since the Swains are so Many, and I've but One Life?
Passion kills,
Passion thrills,
Passion fills,
with a sense of purpose..........
Passion may chill,
Passion makes ill,
Passion is still,
Pain mistaken as passion........
(2 7/Jan'/'09)
Love is a breeze
of the dawn  caressing our skin,
Passion is a fire
which melts our heart.
Love is kindness
that touch and does not get aged,
Passion is a volcano
that blows up in eruption.
Love is a
lasting feeling,
Passion is a
transitory alienation.
Love is peace,
serenity,
complicity.
Passion is affliction,
suspicion,
desillusion.
Love is union
of two human beings
in communion,
Passion is conjunction
of bodies in ecstasy
and possession.
.
Love me to show how much you care
Love me to make others beware
Hold me all through the day and all through the night
Kiss me gently with your soft, beautiful lips
Kiss me while I embrace your hips
Comfort me when im feeling low
Comfort me when im all alone
Tell me you will always be mine
Tell me I am your sun shine
Show me how much you love me
Cause I love you too
with all my heart i belong to YOU! ! !
This Poem Is Just A Poem Of Feelings I Used To Have.
Man's rich with little, were his judgment true;
Nature is frugal, and her wants are few;
Those few wants answer'd, bring sincere delights;
But fools create themselves new appetites:
Fancy and pride seek things at vast expense,
Which relish not to reason, nor to sense.
When surfeit, or unthankfulness, destroys,
In nature's narrow sphere, our solid joys,
In fancy's airy land of noise and show,
Where nought but dreams, no real pleasures grow;
Like cats in air-pumps, to subsist we strive
On joys too thin to keep the soul alive.
Lemira's sick; make haste; the doctor call:
He comes; but where's his patient? At the ball.
The doctor stares; her woman curt'sies low,
And cries, "My lady, sir, is always so:
Diversions put her maladies to flight;
True, she can't stand, but she can dance all night:
I've known my lady (for she loves a tune)
For fevers take an opera in June:
And, though perhaps you'll think the practice bold,
A midnight park is sovereign for a cold:
With colics, breakfasts of green fruit agree;
With indigestions, supper just at three."
A strange alternative, replied Sir Hans,
Must women have a doctor, or a dance?
Though sick to death, abroad they safely roam,
But droop and die, in perfect health, at home:
For want--but not of health, are ladies ill;
And tickets cure beyond the doctor's bill.
A haunting melody
A lilting song
Invades my senses
Staying long
A whiff of your fragrance
Brought by the wind
Permeates my skin
Mingling within
Fleeting images forever
In the pond of my heart
Now I see your face
Staring at me stark
Are you for real
Or just a mirage?
Dreams dont come true
In life's collage
Let me dip and drown
In my own dream
Where you and I
Will fly and stream
Mirrored echoes dance, shades leave behind
Upward spiral, circle higher still.
Shadow personae played out, heart and will,
Inside and out reflect hopes redefined.
Can this light true remain or wane? We find
At last trace of shared space to dreams fulfill.
Now answer Dear, do you, too, warm and chill?
Depth of feeling freed, hearts need to bind,
Passion parallel, to urge aligned,
As one, - tendril touching - surging thrill,
Sensations soothing dissonance to still
Secret fears, time's sentence purged, demined.
In gentleness soul strokes soul til release
ON wings of comfort comes, whole makes each piece.
Ph[r]ase by ph[r]ase, souls tenderly tendril,
Answer questions. Sun beneath the skin
Sensations warms, blood pulses fast to win
Satisfaction which can Trust instill.
In gentless soul strokes twin soul until
Only smiles sleep comforts, kin find kin.
No dream is this, which daylight will wear thin!
At last trace of shared space may dreams fulfill.
Now must your answer show our overspill!
Depth of feeling, harmony, begin
Mirrored dance where darkness seems a sin.
Upwards two halves united spin - no chill
Shadow portends which could kill - love unshared.
I, Charmed, disarmed, am for your smile prepared
My passion
Found me
Many years ago
And what is my passion?
My passion is poetry
Night of passion, the day of feelings,
you see my smile, you see my joy
you Filled my dreams, you fill my empty sadness,
my night with you, my day with to you
Your passion, my sweet passion,
You wish my eternal wish, i wish your eternal wish,
Nights to love, those are nights of passion.
There is no crime in passion,
only if jealousy perceives it be.
Passion means love,
an outpouring of emotions there.
The green-eyed monster
only arises
if an angry confrontation flares.
(18 June 2007)
Once in a saintly passion
I cried with desperate grief,
"O Lord, my heart is black with guile,
Of sinners I am chief."
Then stooped my guardian angel
And whispered from behind,
"Vanity, my little man,
You're nothing of the kind."
I adore the landscape of your beautiful body,
as it is spread out b 4 me.
I'm nestled b'tween your thighs,
my nose tickles from your nest of curls.
Your wetness greets me,
your femnine liquid is sweat 2 my taste buds.
My tongue finds the warmth of your womanhood.
Your fragrance d'lite my nostrils.
My eyes travel up your stomach 2 the lustful curves of your breast.
Twin full peaks,
topped with harden nipples.
Signaling your arousal.
My tongue x'ploring b'tween your d'licate pink petals.
Small circles around your pink pearl,
with a flick of the tongue u purr n your unique way.
Telling me of your n'joyment,
I am unrelenting.
I feel your body tense,
as u grib the sheets.
Locked n passion as we were,
no one could tell u from me!
Bodies hot with heat,
erotic rhythm of your hips,
thrusting n time.
With the melody my tongue sings.
Time b'come a blur!
U pressed hard against my tongue,
I willing comply as I cup your hips,
as u cry out!
The landscape erupts with a fury of a oragasmic shock wave.
Which leaves u speechless from...
Burn your soul,
feeling the heat;
of passion.
Feel it lick on your skin,
Feel its touch full of sin.
And yet, I give it no thought.
Cross my mind, cross my heart,
never once, made me cold.
And of this truth untold,
there my heart is sold,
The devil cries.
Choose who will the wiser part—
I have held her heart to heart;
And have felt her heart-strings stirred,
And her soul’s still singing heard
For one golden-haloed hour
Of Love’s life the passion-flower.
So the world may roll or rest—
I have tasted of its best;
And shall laugh while I have breath
At thy dart and thee, O Death!
You said, 'Watch me while I get dressed..'
strong tighs...legs of warrior ready for a fight,
as you come out from the room,25 minutes has passed
and all I witnessed is your good shape like that of a knight!
Putting on that neatly pressed white cotton long sleeves
feeling I just want to fix it, wear your silk tie on it,
put on your pants as I will pull it up your knees
as I reach it closer, smelling your afterbathe scent...
Nice suit matches your features best
Wow...you made me feel amazed...
and as you walk pass my sight
I can't help to put on my gown, cling on your arm so tight!
Yet my imagination wander wild
feeling to take that suit off again and touch
your torso that I long to trace so much
passion been ignited as I see you naughtily wink and smiled...!
My heart was started by a spark,
burst into flames.
Now I am like a lamp on a hill,
everyone sees me and my passion.
I'm on fire, I'm burning bright.
You made the spark,
kindled the flame,
gave this fire the passion of the night.
Its burning bright, through the night,
its never going out or dimming.
Its the passion of the fire,
its the passion of life.
The life you gave,
was meant to amaze.
Now with you in me,
I illuminate the darkness.
I'm on fire,
running with the flame, the passion
touching people,
letting them catch the fire, catch your Love.
It never fades away,
this passion deep in me,
it'll burn till the end of day.
To achieve something great in the world you need Passion
To fulfill vision, a great leader’s courage comes from Passion
Whatever it may be, you must find your Passion
If passion drives you, let reason hold the reins
Follow your passion and success will follow you!
Never underestimate the power of passion
Without passion religion is spiritless
Without Passion history is meaningless
Without Passion art is useless
Follow your passion and success will follow you!
When you take up a mission with passion
There are no dreams too large
No innovation unimaginable
No frontiers beyond reach
Follow your passion and success will follow you!
Our passions are the winds that propel our vessel
Our reason is the pilot that steers her
Without winds the vessel would not move
Without a pilot she would be lost
Follow your passion and success will follow you!
There is no end and there is no beginning
There is only the passion of life
Passion is universal humanity
Passion is the genesis of genius
Follow your passion and success will follow you!
********************************************* ************************************
**
The play of passion
in her eyes is
not lost on him
Looking to see what
is not there and
wonders who is she
Searching through each
other and find nothing
yet taste every feeling
Seeing into each
other and suddenly
need to turn away
Soft kiss touches on
his cheek and he
knows nothing is lost,
Never to be found again
***
My beast has been awakened.
I shiver from its reverie.
My desire raised in a breath.
The beast hungers for you.
Candlelight flashes across your face.
Eyes intoxicated with lust.
I want you.
I can't think when you have been close.
Nothing is right.
Nothing is wrong.
Need overtakes me and I am a slave to it.
A slave to you.
My beast hungers.
Still.
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
SOME have won a wild delight,
By daring wilder sorrow;
Could I gain thy love to-night,
I'd hazard death to-morrow.
Could the battle-struggle earn
One kind glance from thine eye,
How this withering heart would burn,
The heady fight to try !
Welcome nights of broken sleep,
And days of carnage cold,
Could I deem that thou wouldst weep
To hear my perils told.
Tell me, if with wandering bands
I roam full far away,
Wilt thou, to those distant lands,
In spirit ever stray ?
Wild, long, a trumpet sounds afar;
Bid me­bid me go
Where Seik and Briton meet in war,
On Indian Sutlej's flow.
Blood has dyed the Sutlej's waves
With scarlet stain, I know;
Indus' borders yawn with graves,
Yet, command me go !
Though rank and high the holocaust
Of nations, steams to heaven,
Glad I'd join the death-doomed host,
Were but the mandate given.
Passion's strength should nerve my arm,
Its ardour stir my life,
Till human force to that dread charm
Should yield and sink in wild alarm,
Like trees to tempest-strife.
If, hot from war, I seek thy love,
Darest thou turn aside ?
Darest thou, then, my fire reprove,
By scorn, and maddening pride ?
No­my will shall yet control
Thy will, so high and free,
And love shall tame that haughty soul­
Yes­tenderest love for me.
I'll read my triumph in thine eyes,
Behold, and prove the change;
Then leave, perchance, my noble prize,
Once more in arms to range.
I'd die when all the foam is up,
The bright wine sparkling high;
Nor wait till in the exhausted cup
Life's dull dregs only lie.
Then Love thus crowned with sweet reward,
Hope blest with fulness large,
I'd mount the saddle, draw the sword,
And perish in the charge !
I hadn't seen her in close to a year
And so...we met for a simple lunch
I brought tuna sandwiches, strawberries and lattes
She brought her lovely smile!
I noticed that she had lost weight
And she seemd pale, to what I was used to
And the sparkle in her eye...
Was hidden...
We hugged, and then chatted
She was a dear friend...always there for me
And I had tried to always be there for her...
Except once...
I had long ago learned not to pass judgement
As we chatted, we kept the topics light
How was she doing?
How was my work?
How were my kids?
And, as we chatted, my mind wandered
Back to happier times...
She had always had such passion...
Passion for life...and passion for him
Their love had been the kind of passion
That you read about in romance novels!
That...rock you to the core...
Sweep you off your feet...
Rollercoaster ride! !
Secretly, I had always been envious
Of passion that strong...
My life paled in comparison
My marriage had become...
A business partnership...
And my passion...it lay deeply buried...
But the kind of passion that they had...
was also dark, and stormy at times
There had been several break ups
And then reunions...
But now...it was over...forever
And she was learning how to live her life
Without him
I thought that the sparkle in her eye
Must have gone, around the same time he did
The situation gripped me, and I fought back tears
With a lump in my throat
I couldn't help but notice
All the background noises
No birds, or babbling brooks for us today...
No...something far more sinister...
Clangs, bangs...and the odd shout
It was the end of our time together
And as we rose, we hugged again
And she clung to me
As though she never wanted to let go
And I never wanted to let go of her
If I could have taken her with me..
Then and there...I would have
She walked away...
Turned and waved a little wave
And I thought I saw
A tiny sparkle in her eye...once again
But then I realized it was just a tear
As I left, I reflected on the situation
Brought about by passion...such passion...
She had loved him...passionately
She had killed him...passionately!
Ohhhhh...what passion! !
(HW/31 May,2007)
Passion does not have Culture's or
level's of studies passion comes
from the heart, how one sees life
from inside the soul, passion is like
a savage animal, that does not
understand or knows what he
feels; but has inside him the
passion that awakes his instinct
of savage love, Passion has nothing
but a soul and a desire to love.
It lies in all of us,
Sleeping,
Waiting
And though unwanted,
Unbidden
It will stir
Open its jaws and howl
It speaks to us, guides us
PASSION rules us all,
And we obey,
What other choice do we have?
PASSION is the source of our finest moments
The Joy of LOVE,
The Clarity of HATRED,
And the Ecstasy of GRIEF
It hurts sometimes,
More than we can bear
If we could live without PASSION maybe we'd know some kind of peace
But we would be hollow,
Empty rooms,
Meaningless lives,
Withiut PASSION we'd be truly,
With passion you will win
With caring you will gain
With selfishness you will be in pain
So why should you remain? ? ?
To win... just be passion
Passion for the stars
Passion for the ocean
A moment of passion so easily shared,
With no fear o regret.
Passion is the eagerness to wake up with the light
A moment of passion I'll never forget
My passion found me
And what is my passion?
Passion and lust takes my mind
Passion the power to love,
The speed of passion: Furios
Passion is something you see
Passion its something you are.
Marisa Taylor
Passion!
Do you feel everyday?
Passion!
Come world, laugh with us
Release your soul, make it explodes
Passion!
Let people know who you are
Bring it up to the air we share
We have passion!
We don’t care of shame
If all we’ve done is wrong
So why we looked happy than you are
Passion!
That makes life called life
Menarilah lidah api!
Passion
A red rose waiting to be given
A light touch on the arm
A cuddle close
A passionate kiss under the stars
A pen carefully handled to write a lover letter to a special person
A dance upon a dance floor before the sea
A slow walk upon the beach in the sunset
Passion
Existing in all of us, however deep
Grand old Canyon Mars on Earth
Precursor to the rebirth
Of more scenic terrains of passion
We explore the umbilical union
Two souls embedded with escapism
Could we breathe the confined air?
Necessities surge but a test
You and I progressed
Love is paramount
As alive as Death Valley
I guess the rains down in here
Tormented and isolated…
The soils are red as our rigid hearts
The night skies were the curtain of Paradise…
Could we excel on no man’s land?
Far from over,
Pyramid and the Sphinx…
Proudest of the dessert
Great Wall of China…
A sign of loyalty
Taj Mahal love prowess
Leila and Majnun…
Love tragic
Dear…you’re manic!
What’s the significance of those?
Ain’t get enough of the trust?
Make no mistake
James Blunt singing ‘same mistake’
The song flows right to my heart
I treated your internal wounds
Like Oasis says ‘stop crying your heart out’
I lick your heartache spills
Like Bonnie Tyler says ‘it’s a heartache’
I will hammer Greenland’s iceberg
Nourishing your thirst for me
I will swim rough waters of Cape of Good Hope
Rescuing you from drowning
I will brave Siberian’s winter
Making an Igloo for us
I will befriend the lost tribes of Amazon
Telling them of our wedding day
The lighthouse of Newfoundland
Would welcome us as we ashore
Greetings from fauna and flora
Enchanting like morning dews dripping
Welcoming two soul mates
Dear…we’re manic
Love as deep as Black Hole
We float on the planetarium
Jupiter would smile and says ‘hello’
The moon says ‘bye bye I’d miss ya good fellow'
Milky ways shimmer as we journey through
Final escalation is yet to come
Beyond the spectrum
Heaven waits…
Give me such Passion
That it knows no end
Let my heart grow wings
And take flight again
Allow me such love
That I feel with each embrace
Overwhelming fires
That grow with the thrill of chase
Grant me such a kiss
That my heart escapes my chest
Such a beating against my ribs
That my pain tolerance is at test
Bestow upon me such Passion
That nothing else exists
Warm me with your arms
Bless me with your lips
Touch me with such tenderness
That I cannot believe
That such Passion could exist
Inside someone like me
Flames of raging lust,
thoughts of fiery dust,
sparkling kindled hearts
blazing in the dark.
Arms enfolding, holding tight,
bodies joining in the night,
hands soft and tender,
grasping, rending
flesh that lithely writhes
against their probing, sending
mind into ecstatic states;
to which you may relate.
Groaning, moaning
cries of joy,
crimson sounds
on pink rustled silk.
Penetrating shrieks
that thrill,
reaching down
to earth,
rising up so high,
and slowing
to a restful glow,
ambers of the heat
that flowed;
not anything
you don't already know
and most likely can relate.
Walk any crowded city street
See vacant stares on a sea of faces
How stiff they walk on frozen feet
Of long forgotten social graces
Is passion within human hearts gone
As far as knowing eyes can see?
Love and joy no longer paragon
'Lord', why won’t they look at me?
Your passion Vincent helps them find wings
As paint on canvas did so long ago
Lovely are the words your paintings sing
As if by magic, vivid flowers seem to grow
Soon, God’s Hands shall touch hearts again
Of long forgotten buried and the walking dead
Made afresh what was once arcane
The Will of God shall once more embed
Countless souls shall launch an upward flight
None shall rest, until they reach Eternal Light
ROTMS
PASSION TOUCHED HER LIPS
Passion touched her lips
Words flooded his sexuality
Unique his need sustained
His every need understood!
Understanding his umpteen change of moods
Her heart in true love…….
Can there be a paradise sweeter?
Than the desire for him in quest
Warrior home at last?
Today is captive
In the ocean of this whirlwind world
Tomorrow spreads its wings
Bringing hope in its tail end
The sweep of joy
Keeps you alive
“Present” presented to you
To cherish! !
Hope is the rope
That spurns the heart to action
Frozen camera
Perhaps stilled you to the present!
Taking the heart
On a flight
Where love grew
With each day’s passing!
Your love encased
Fragile I no more……..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~malinikadir
(this poem is written for my hubby....in a marriage of 25's standing)
Your passion is permanently etched on my soul,
On all flesh, branding skin north and south.
Even after I have finished brushing my teeth
I can relive your taste in my mouth.
Your poems play new chords on the strings of my heart,
The mark your smile leaves? I'm still guessing!
But the magical way you've touched me from the start
Poetry has no way of expressing.
Though it's true that we have never met in the flesh
And no photograph I've ever seen.
Could it be a connection from many past lives?
Just the thought of you makes my world green.
The best artist could never capture the beauty
Of the truth you have let my heart see,
Only one thing could possibly soften this blow:
To know that in fact - you are for me.
And the priestess spoke again and said: "Speak to us of Reason and Passion."
And he answered saying:
Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against passion and your appetite.
Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and the rivalry of your elements into oneness and melody.
But how shall I, unless you yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements?
Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.
If either your sails or our rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas.
For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.
Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion; that it may sing;
And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes.
I would have you consider your judgment and your appetite even as you would two loved guests in your house.
Surely you would not honour one guest above the other; for he who is more mindful of one loses the love and the faith of both.
Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows - then let your heart say in silence, "God rests in reason."
And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky, - then let your heart say in awe, "God moves in passion."
And since you are a breath In God's sphere, and a leaf in God's forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion.
Shivers and cries
Secrets of passion
Kisses you and lies
Secrets of passion
Floats you even higher
Secrets of passion
Crashes you into a pit o' fire
Secrets of passion
You feel deffered
Secrets of passion
Please...
Just die in vain.
What you read is all there is
If you cannot relate
Then no problem
If you are not that woman
Wriggling in my poem
Then let it be another woman
Another woman that
You mock
That you think is
So unreal
A woman who is not you
A woman who cannot be you
Is still the real woman
That I hold and love and cherish
She is still the woman that I love very much
She is still the woman that I can die for
She is the weak woman in my arms
She is the woman hiding in my embraces
She is the woman longing for my love
She is the woman who cannot live without my love
She is the woman who is by my side
She is the woman lovable to me
We made a vow
And I will be with her forever
Without me she is incomplete
Without her I am incomplete
We will always be together
Will you hate the woman that I love?
Drop her. She is mine. I’ll catch her.
Shivering with passion
Shivering with passion
As soon as his lips on mine
Lust creeps up my whole spine
His large hands playing on me
All inches of body aching for more
Keep up your powerful skill
Withdraw my resistance out
To make me without any will
Just panting for him
Shivering with passion
Total body compatibility
No other way of serenity
Let it be let lust overcome
Any hidden upcoming fear
Throw and shut it out of mind
This passion is burning me blind
his touching with such dexterity
Absolute tremendous sensuality
Shivering with passion
For the moment nothing counts
Than feeling his real desire
Taking my body as part of his
Demanding responding his way
Waves of pleasures splashing
Into my very internal caves
Nobody ever did it so right
Till his soft open lips aroused mine
Shivering with passion
When starting to wet within
Asking for more to be explored
Pit in my stomach vibrations
Tongues searching to restore
Lost sensible sensations
Stretching in wonderful ways
Whole of myself arching
In pain to absolute surrender
Shivering with passion
Only once in lifetime can one find
Such a total flesh connection
This thirst and hunger of mine
To renew the encounters
More and many more times
How will I ever have the strength
To leave this outbursting lovemaking
Once consumed behind
I shall always shiver with
A certain kind of passion
When in the future surfaces
sudden warm thoughts of that
love making of the past
Strange fits of passion have I known:
And I will dare to tell,
But in the lover's ear alone,
What once to me befell.
When she I loved looked every day
Fresh as a rose in June,
I to her cottage bent my way,
Beneath an evening-moon.
Upon the moon I fixed my eye,
All over the wide lea;
With quickening pace my horse drew nigh
Those paths so dear to me.
And now we reached the orchard-plot;
And, as we climbed the hill,
The sinking moon to Lucy's cot
Came near, and nearer still.
In one of those sweet dreams I slept,
Kind Nature's gentlest boon!
And all the while my eye I kept
On the descending moon.
My horse moved on; hoof after hoof
He raised, and never stopped:
When down behind the cottage roof,
At once, the bright moon dropped.
What fond and wayward thoughts will slide
Into a Lover's head!
'O mercy!' to myself I cried,
'If Lucy hould be dead!'
Such is the passion the want of desire
To burn in the heart with fingers of fire
Wet lashes wrapped up, in a sweet velvet rose
To follow your heart where ever it goes
Such is the passion the heart strings to pull
That the cup runneth over, with emotions so full
To send you to heaven, the stars and above
To make senses reel in the sweet dance of love
Such is the passion in the depths of ones soul
Infuses ones mind and the dreams in the role
Of a lovers sweet kisses, to imprint its mark
Of secret assignations alone in the dark
Such is the passion the fire inside
Shines forth from the eyes, with nowhere to hide
Yet the heart and the mind, will tumble and fall
If signals mistaken, will then wither and stall.
Taking your hand
fingers touch my lips
I want to love every inch of you
taste every part of you
to drink your love
through your very pores
Lay down beside me
feel my body crying for you
I want to get lost...
your sweet caresses
touching my soul
Want me, like no other
need me, like air
join me to make one mind, one soul
fused in the heat of passion
existing in this moment
The greatest love of all
He, who had sacrificed
Endured the wounds and pain
Pardon for all our sins
Against the hands of the enemies
Shouldered the weight of humanity
Showering eternal glory
In this world ruled by evil
Overpouring mercy for our sins
No one at times noticed
Once there was a love...
Forever saving-love...
Covering us a mantle of His protection
He, who is the risen Lord...
Ressurected for the salvation of the world
In His love that we have forsaken
Sanctifying grace we have abandoned
Together now in spirit we commemorate...
THE PASSION OF CHRIST
My head's in the clouds....,
I'm not sure I can last....,
Breathing heavy....,
And my heart's beating fast...,
Can it be The Passion Of You...,
The emotion of you....,
The warmth of you....,
The fire of you....? ? ?
What can I do...? ? ?
With The Passion Of You...? ? ?
It's driving me mad....,
The Passion Of You.
It reasons the warmth when chilled
Gracious delight to know the rising sun
to be shined as when quivering by the frost
when intense by the wind shedding the pains
the woes when alone may be flicked by
yet it rocks her up by shadows as dark
for all the raved up alphabets as when learned
whispering the love as when rambled
by the passion through latticed window
the light when goes away flicking bye
shadows as melting saddened by the glooms
into the room of its repose as wrinkled
yet in silence poised by the pretensions
I
Erewhile of music, and ethereal mirth,
Wherewith the stage of Air and Earth did ring,
And joyous news of heavenly Infant’s birth,
My muse with Angels did divide to sing;
But headlong joy is ever on the wing,
In wintry solstice like the shortened light
Soon swallowed up in dark and long outliving night.
II
For now to sorrow must I tune my song,
And set my Harp to notes of saddest woe,
Which on our dearest Lord did seize ere long,
Dangers, and snares, and wrongs, and worse than so,
Which he for us did freely undergo:
Most perfect Hero, tried in heaviest plight
Of labours huge and hard, too hard for human wight!
III
He, sovran Priest, stooping his regal head,
That dropt with odorous oil down his fair eyes,
Poor fleshly Tabernacle enterèd,
His starry front low-roofed beneath the skies:
Oh, what a mask was there, what a disguise!
Yet more: the stroke of death he must abide;
Then lies him meekly down fast by his Brethren’s side.
IV
These latest scenes confine my roving verse;
To this horizon is my Phœbus bound.
His godlike acts, and his temptations fierce,
And former sufferings, otherwhere are found;
Loud o’er the rest Cremona’s trump doth sound:
Me softer airs befit, and softer strings
Of lute, or viol still, more apt for mournful things.
V
Befriend me, Night, best Patroness of grief!
Over the pole thy thickest mantle throw,
And work my flattered fancy to belief
That Heaven and Earth are coloured with my woe;
My sorrows are too dark for day to know:
The leaves should all be black whereon I write,
And letters, where my tears have washed, a wannish white.
VI
See, see the chariot, and those rushing wheels,
That whirled the prophet up at Chebar flood;
My spirit some transporting Cherub feels
To bear me where the Towers of Salem stood,
Once glorious towers, now sunk in guiltless blood.
There doth my soul in holy vision sit,
In pensive trance, and anguish, and ecstatic fit.
VII
Mine eye hath found that sad sepulchral rock
That was the casket of Heaven’s richest store,
And here, though grief my feeble hands up-lock,
Yet on the softened quarry would I score
My plaining verse as lively as before;
For sure so well instructed are my tears
That they would fitly fall in ordered characters.
VIII
Or, should I thence, hurried on viewless wing,
Take up a weeping on the mountains wild,
The gentle neighbourhood of grove and spring
Would soon unbosom all their Echoes mild;
And I (for grief is easily beguiled)
Might think the infection of my sorrows loud
Had got a race of mourners on some pregnant cloud.
This Subject the Author finding to be above the years he had when he wrote it, and nothing satisfied with what was begun, left it unfinished.
O Gentle Love, ungentle for thy deed,
Thou makest my heart
A bloody mark
With piercing shot to bleed.
Shoot soft, sweet Love, for fear thou shoot amiss,
For fear too keen
Thy arrows been,
And hist the heart where my beloved is.
Too fair that fortune were, nor never I
Shall be so blest,
Among the rest,
That Love shall seize on her by sympathy.
Then since with Love my prayers bear no boot,
This doth remain
To cease my pain,
I take the wound, and die at Venus' foot.
I rock and roll with passion
I talk out my soul with a passion
I eat good food with passion
I defeat bad mood with a passion
I sleep well with passion
I weep hell with a passion
I dream endlessly with passion
I gleam ceaselessly with a passion
I aim for money with passion
I do the same for honey with a passion
I listen carefully with passion
I glisten dutifully with a passion
I search for fame with passion
I research to blame with a passion
I walk everyday with passion
I talk and play with a passion
I embrace life with passion
I face nightlife with a passion
I laugh out with passion
I chaffe about with a passion
I cook with others with passion
I look at mothers with a passion
I touch gently with passion
I clutch tightly with a passion
I work hard with a passion
I rock mad with a passion
I gear up goals with passion
I stir up roles with a passion
I make friends with passion
I take weekends with a passion
I love kissing with passion
I love teasing with a passion
I make love with passion
I take from above with a passion
If push comes to shove
Label me old fashioned
For these are things I caption
In life with all my passion
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
WHEN the flaming lute-thronged angelic door is wide;
When an immortal passion breathes in mortal clay;
Our hearts endure the scourge, the plaited thorns, the way
Crowded with bitter faces, the wounds in palm and side,
The vinegar-heavy sponge, the flowers by Kedron stream;
We will bend down and loosen our hair over you,
That it may drop faint perfume, and be heavy with dew,
Lilies of death-pale hope, roses of passionate dream.
ONCE more, then, much-wept shadow, thou dost dare
Boldly to face the day's clear light,
To meet me on fresh blooming meadows fair,
And dost not tremble at my sight.
Those happy times appear return'd once more.
When on one field we quaff'd refreshing dew,
And, when the day's unwelcome toils were o'er,
The farewell sunbeams bless'd our ravish'd view;
Fate bade thee go,--to linger here was mine,--
Going the first, the smaller loss was thine.
The life of man appears a glorious fate:
The day how lovely, and the night how great!
And we 'mid Paradise-like raptures plac'd,
The sun's bright glory scarce have learn'd to taste.
When strange contending feelings dimly cover,
Now us, and now the forms that round us hover;
One's feelings by no other are supplied,
'Tis dark without, if all is bright inside;
An outward brightness veils my sadden'd mood,
When Fortune smiles,--how seldom understood!
Now think we that we know her, and with might
A woman's beauteous form instils delight;
The youth, as glad as in his infancy,
The spring-time treads, as though the spring were he
Ravish'd, amazed, he asks, how this is done?
He looks around, the world appears his own.
With careless speed he wanders on through space,
Nor walls, nor palaces can check his race;
As some gay flight of birds round tree-tops plays,
So 'tis with him who round his mistress strays;
He seeks from AEther, which he'd leave behind him,
The faithful look that fondly serves to bind him.
Yet first too early warn'd, and then too late,
He feels his flight restrain'd, is captur'd straight
To meet again is sweet, to part is sad,
Again to meet again is still more glad,
And years in one short moment are enshrin'd;
But, oh, the harsh farewell is hid behind!
Thou smilest, friend, with fitting thoughts inspired;
By a dread parting was thy fame acquired,
Thy mournful destiny we sorrow'd o'er,
For weal and woe thou left'st us evermore,
And then again the passions' wavering force
Drew us along in labyrinthine course;
And we, consumed by constant misery,
At length must part--and parting is to die!
How moving is it, when the minstrel sings,
To 'scape the death that separation brings!
Oh grant, some god, to one who suffers so,
To tell, half-guilty, his sad tale of woe.
When man had ceased to utter his lament,
A god then let me tell my tale of sorrow.
WHAT hope of once more meeting is there now
In the still-closed blossoms of this day?
Both heaven and hell thrown open seest thou;
What wav'ring thoughts within the bosom play
No longer doubt! Descending from the sky,
She lifts thee in her arms to realms on high.
And thus thou into Paradise wert brought,
As worthy of a pure and endless life;
Nothing was left, no wish, no hope, no thought,
Here was the boundary of thine inmost strife:
And seeing one so fair, so glorified,
The fount of yearning tears was straightway dried.
No motion stirr'd the day's revolving wheel,
In their own front the minutes seem'd to go;
The evening kiss, a true and binding seal,
Ne'er changing till the morrow's sunlight glow.
The hours resembled sisters as they went.
Yet each one from another different.
The last hour's kiss, so sadly sweet, effac'd
A beauteous network of entwining love.
Now on the threshold pause the feet, now haste.
As though a flaming cherub bade them move;
The unwilling eye the dark road wanders o'er,
Backward it looks, but closed it sees the door.
And now within itself is closed this breast,
As though it ne'er were open, and as though,
Vying with ev'ry star, no moments blest
Had, in its presence, felt a kindling glow;
Sadness, reproach, repentance, weight of care,
Hang heavy on it in the sultry air.
Is not the world still left? The rocky steeps,
Are they with holy shades no longer crown'd?
Grows not the harvest ripe? No longer creeps
The espalier by the stream,--the copse around?
Doth not the wondrous arch of heaven still rise,
Now rich in shape, now shapeless to the eyes?
As, seraph-like, from out the dark clouds' chorus,
With softness woven, graceful, light, and fair,
Resembling Her, in the blue aether o'er us,
A slender figure hovers in the air,--
Thus didst thou see her joyously advance,
The fairest of the fairest in the dance.
Yet but a moment dost thou boldly dare
To clasp an airy form instead of hers;
Back to thine heart! thou'lt find it better there,
For there in changeful guise her image stirs
What erst was one, to many turneth fast,
In thousand forms, each dearer than the last.
As at the door, on meeting lingerd she,
And step by step my faithful ardour bless'd,
For the last kiss herself entreated me,
And on my lips the last last kiss impress'd,--
Thus clearly traced, the lov'd one's form we view,
With flames engraven on a heart so true,--
A heart that, firm as some embattled tower,
Itself for her, her in itself reveres,
For her rejoices in its lasting power,
Conscious alone, when she herself appears;
Feels itself freer in so sweet a thrall,
And only beats to give her thanks in all.
The power of loving, and all yearning sighs
For love responsive were effaced and drown'd;
While longing hope for joyous enterprise
Was form'd, and rapid action straightway found;
If love can e'er a loving one inspire,
Most lovingly it gave me now its fire;
And 'twas through her!--an inward sorrow lay
On soul and body, heavily oppress'd;
To mournful phantoms was my sight a prey,
In the drear void of a sad tortured breast;
Now on the well-known threshold Hope hath smil'd,
Herself appeareth in the sunlight mild.
Unto the peace of God, which, as we read,
Blesseth us more than reason e'er bath done,
Love's happy peace would I compare indeed,
When in the presence of the dearest one.
There rests the heart, and there that sweetest thought,
The thought of being hers, is check'd by nought.
In the pure bosom doth a yearning float,
Unto a holier, purer, unknown Being
Its grateful aspiration to devote,
The Ever-Nameless then unriddled seeing;
We call it: piety!--such blest delight
I feel a share in, when before her sight.
Before her sight, as 'neath the sun's hot ray,
Before her breath, as 'neath the spring's soft wind,
In its deep wintry cavern melts away
Self-love, so long in icy chains confin'd;
No selfishness and no self-will are nigh,
For at her advent they were forced to fly.
It seems as though she said: "As hours pass by
They spread before us life with kindly plan;
Small knowledge did the yesterday supply,
To know the morrow is conceal'd from man;
And if the thought of evening made me start,
The sun at setting gladden'd straight my heart.
"Act, then, as I, and look, with joyous mind,
The moment in the face; nor linger thou!
Meet it with speed, so fraught with life, so kind
In action, and in love so radiant now;
Let all things be where thou art, childlike ever,
Thus thoult be all, thus, thou'lt be vanquish'd never."
Thou speakest well, methought, for as thy guide
The moment's favour did a god assign,
And each one feels himself when by thy side,
Fate's fav'rite in a moment so divine;
I tremble at thy look that bids me go,
Why should I care such wisdom vast to know?
Now am I far! And what would best befit
The present minute? I could scarcely tell;
Full many a rich possession offers it,
These but offend, and I would fain repel.
Yearnings unquenchable still drive me on,
All counsel, save unbounded tears, is gone.
Flow on, flow on in never-ceasing course,
Yet may ye never quench my inward fire!
Within my bosom heaves a mighty force,
Where death and life contend in combat dire.
Medicines may serve the body's pangs to still;
Nought but the spirit fails in strength of will,--
Fails in conception; wherefore fails it so?
A thousand times her image it portrays;
Enchanting now, and now compell'd to go,
Now indistinct, now clothed in purest rays!
How could the smallest comfort here be flowing?
The ebb and flood, the coming and the going!
Leave me here now, my life's companions true!
Leave me alone on rock, in moor and heath;
But courage! open lies the world to you,
The glorious heavens above, the earth beneath;
Observe, investigate, with searching eyes,
And nature will disclose her mysteries.
To me is all, I to myself am lost,
Who the immortals' fav'rite erst was thought;
They, tempting, sent Pandoras to my cost,
So rich in wealth, with danger far more fraught;
They urged me to those lips, with rapture crown'd,
Deserted me, and hurl'd me to the ground.
PASSION brings reason--who can pacify
An anguish'd heart whose loss hath been so great?
Where are the hours that fled so swiftly by?
In vain the fairest thou didst gain from fate;
Sad is the soul, confused the enterprise;
The glorious world, how on the sense it dies!
In million tones entwined for evermore,
Music with angel-pinions hovers there,
To pierce man's being to its inmost core,
Eternal beauty has its fruit to bear;
The eye grows moist, in yearnings blest reveres
The godlike worth of music as of tears.
And so the lighten'd heart soon learns to see
That it still lives, and beats, and ought to beat,
Off'ring itself with joy and willingly,
In grateful payment for a gift so sweet.
And then was felt,--oh may it constant prove!--
The twofold bliss of music and of love.
She seductively sat
Upon my lap like a child,
Like a kindergartner
With proud innocent curls
On a sexy, naïve evening.
She placed her fingers on my lips,
She then pressed
Her whole hand
Against my chest,
She traveled south
And gave the slightest
Intoxicating touch
To my sensitive region.
We embraced
By soft October bridges
In the dark, romantic wine-glass night,
She told me not to speak,
Just to think wordless prayers.
And kiss her with unreserved passion.
What is passion?
Please explain..
Lest my heart be torn apart
What is passion?
Is it the giving or receiving?
The feeling or believing?
The newness or the trueness?
The ups the downs...
The aches...the pains...
Is it a whirlwind?
A merry-go-round?
A turbulent storm...
That comes before the calm?
Is it lasting?
Does it wane?
If it's lost...
Will it ever find it's home again?
What is passion?
Please explain...
Lest my heart be torn apart
Passion and judgement often wage war, bold
Reason tho', speaks to make peace, and awards
Both rudder and sail to unseasoned souls,
Who, broken by passion unchained, broaden
Pain to deep grief, as in sailing ahead
With unfettered ardour, birth more stormy,
Ill-disposed fantasy, which covets dreaded
Control. Instead, haul in fervour, to form
Anchored alliance with reason. Harbour there,
Where, touched by compassion, hearts without ire
Can flourish passionately, yet fairly act.
Willing to serve, eagerness meets desire,
Catches fire, and true rapture emerges.
Shakes free illicit lusts, then is purged,
And becomes purely ecstatic gold-dust.
Such ageless rapture will never grow old.
Where is my passion
Far too much pain
Where is my passion
Must I love in vain?
Where is my passion
I need must know
Where is my passion
I want so much to grow
Where is my passion
Lost in your lips
Where is my passion
I feel for your kiss
Where is my passion
Lost in your eyes
Where is my passion
Release me to fly
Where is my passion
There in your hands
Where is my passion
Touch me…expand
Where is my passion
Please…be a man
Lay down on your pillow
and turn the lights down low
let me take you to the garden
where the passion flower grows
Close your eyes and enter dreams
as love's emotion sets the scene
and flitters through the garden
where the passion flower grows
Touch the tender petals
of the flower as she grows
a tentative endeavour
as your feelings overflow
Let me draw you to the place
where ecstasy can be embraced
the beauty of the garden
where the passion flower grows
Feel your mind exploding
in the heavy scented air
experience the shiver
as your captured unaware
A little touch of heaven
where imagination flows
the valley in the garden
where the passion flower grows.
I think and thought
i hoped and wished
i cried and mourned
i yelled and laughed
i screamed in excitement
then i realised it was passion.
Passion is strong
it is intense
it is a great feelin of emotion
love, hate, desire, enthusiasm, fondness, zeal, affection and ardor.
A man without passion is like a man without life.
Yes, i pride in myself, i have life because
i have passion,
i know love
i show affection
i know what it is to be fond of
i can give warmth
i am full of ardor.
Just when i was begining to be exalted by my feelings you came into my life,
i found you in my soul
then i knew what i claimed was passion, was nothing compared to what you gave me.
I came to realise that passion wasn't anything else but a woman.And not just any woman, it was you.
Then i remembered 'a man without passion is a man without life.Without you i'm incomplete, without passion i have no life
Now i can boast of passion of love of life.
Because i have you.
Try my love song from the heart inside
Let it touch here through its going
Feel the gathering of its truest glide
As it is willingly and knowing
With some passion that touches me
With some passion that touches me
Let the beauty from within come right here
Through the deep of the dark night
With its flowing and its limits to share
Till all its touches become alright
In the end of its limitless deep
Of the hours from down dark under
With its dances and beats to keep
As we drift though the waves asunder
With some passion that touches freely
With some passion that touches freely
I might be in heart feeling lonely
Though I had my luck in its try
You are touching my soul here and only
Filling moments with each their try
With some passion that touches me
With some passion that touches me
Try my love song from the heart inside
Let it touch here through its going
Feel the gathering of its truest glide
As it is willingly and knowing
With some passion that touches me
With some passion that touches me
With some passion that touches me
Everytime I am near you I can feel your passionate gaze
I just want to let you do whatever you want
I feel helpless when I am around you
Your kisses are like poison
They knock me senseless
for hours at a time
And your sweet caress
is more than I can bear
It all makes me feel helpless when I am around you
I shouldn't be wanting you like I do
I can't help it that you have me under your spell
No matter how hard I try to fight it
I still feel myself falling for you
Every time that I look at you
I can feel the toxins of your passion burning through me
Now your passion is burning in me too
Your passion is like a wild fire
It burns deep within your heart and soul
I can feel it when you look at me
I can feel it when we kiss
Oh how I love to see your passion burning so brightly
war memorial
reccuring, late dad's words
that war is a shame
peace march
i wear late dad's peace ring
for the first time
inspired by
rose garden
I’ve forgotten which one
is called Peace
Now, God be thanked Who has watched us with His hour,
And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move,
And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
And all the little emptiness of love!
Oh! we, who have known shame, we have found release there,
Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending,
Naught broken save this body, lost but breath;
Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
But only agony, and that has ending;
And the worst friend and enemy is but Death.
Love is so beautiful,
In love there is loss,
Life is still beautiful,
Do not cause loss,
If it occurs to you,
Just accept it.
None causes loss,
It just happens,
Forgive those,
Who appear to have,
Caused loss to you,
Forgiveness is noble.
Let her be happy,
And at peace,
If she could not,
She would have a reason,
Let god take care of her,
Wish her happiness and peace.
The church bells are ringing incessantly
Alerting earthlings to join the pilgrimage to pray
Across the sea, mountains and desert wastes,
With peaceful nations and those who went astray.
Oh! glorious church bells throughout the world,
Ring, ring, ring your tidings of everlasting peace,
Proclaim the destiny and imminent end of humankind,
If hatred and hostilities among nations don't cease.
The splendid, angelic chorus in the realm of heaven
Will in unison join the church bells in a peaceful song,
And the Supreme Maker will look down in silent awe,
Upon the massive gathering of a peace seeking throng.
Peace is the objective, as the Supreme Maker smiles,
And the angels prepare graciously to stand aside
To observe all the earthlings worship and pray freely,
Where peace and love should always abide.
Peace is not a betrayal of this  beloved
Peace is a not a mere  humming song.
Peace is my  lovely girl
She  falling back to me
She is a  star that I can see here
I know you are   there, somewhere here
I’ll not  miss you  this curly hair
I’ll not want to  miss  the smell of  this beloved…..
I know you’ll come back some day
I’m praying that you  are   there, somewhere here
Hope you remember me appaling  again….
I’ll not  miss this purple lintel
I’ ll  not kiss this  lovely lint
Peace is not   really a  gossip
Peace is  not a mere hand on her purple  gown.
Peace is not a gypsy affair.
Peace is not  a gobbling  prayer
You falling  me back  again
The star that I can see in this soaring  altar
This star  I can see in a  dashed  anchor....
Hope you remember me again and again
This is an angry poem.
About those weasel phrases
which blow like paper in the street
going nowhere,
hiding truth,
helping us to
deceive ourselves.
'The pee-yus pro-sayus' -
say it in the Irish voice
of obscurantist politicians
often enough
and we'll accept it as a term,
and believe that it needs hard work
and forward planning
and careful progress
and compromise
and agreements
and initiatives
and 'generous' concessions
and declarations of intention
and cautious examination
of opponents' motives
in the 'battle' for peace
and coming together
to establish differences...
Peace
is what is eternally there
when war and strife is absent.
Eternally.
I can't remember Christ
(was he Catholic or Protestant? I just can't remember...)
saying
'Peace process be unto you'...
uh, when would that be? ...
or commanding the waves of the Sea of Galilee
'Engage in the peace process - be still'...
somehow it just doesn't seem to carry weight
as a blessing or a do-it-now...
'Go in process towards peace, my child...'
I wonder why that is.
When I wake up from my bed in the morning
My saturate eyes open slowly and welcomes the morning sun
Then I feel warm and comfortable at peace of mind
The morning smell of the earth reminds me my childhood
The wetness of flora brings me cool breeze.
I was born in this universe with peaceful nature around me
Then, I always felt that I was a star on my own brightness.
Learned, the love and kindness brings me a peace of mind
Learned, the prayers for God brings me a peace of mind
Learned, the help for helpless brings me a peace of mind
Learned, the life of peace brings me a peace of mind
When my saturate eyes close slowly and welcomes the silent night
Then I fall sleep comfortably at peace of mind while praying God
to have another peaceful day.
I threw pennies out to the pigeons,
This morning.
They did not know what to do!
Had I flew the 'coop' with scorning?
I had always come to toss
To them popcorn or chips...
Something they ate I would leave them with!
They usually would peck and be on their way.
But this morning they sat as if to say:
'There's not a thing we can do with these!
Of that all of us pigeons have come to agree!
We expected at least a twig or stick thrown
A chicken bone or something sniffed and left alone!
Something to huddle around over...
To peck and pick!
Is this some kind of joke?
We protest this different shit!
Hey? Are you listening?
Do we have to fight over this? '
And as I began to leave this scene behind...
I pulled from my pocket a new minted dime.
I threw it and watched them trying to lift it together.
Believing the sparkling would bring them a peace,
They would find even better!
Bringing them with curiousity,
And touching each others' feathers!
It worked!
How clear is the air found at a mountain's top,
And breathing this freshness, clarifies all things,
At such high altitude, oxygen can drop,
Then movement slow's, but thoughts fly swift on wings,
Letting the new adventurer explore,
A world that opens wide its magic doors.
Land of peak and valley, sea and shore.
Viewing all this, one's heart pulsates and soars,
Then a sense of peace, envelops the inner soul,
And lightness pervades, where heaviness has been,
Lifting the senses, raising them as a whole,
Introducing pure quietness, making one's life serene.
©   Ernestine Northover
459
A Tooth upon Our Peace
The Peace cannot deface—
Then Wherefore be the Tooth?
To vitalize the Grace—
The Heaven hath a Hell—
Itself to signalize—
And every sign before the Place
Is Gilt with Sacrifice—
That night I laid beside you
With one hand upon your heart
It beat ever so gently
As we laid there in the dark
For hours we spoke
Only with honesty and truth
Somewhere between our words
I fell in love with you
We spoke in quiet whispers
Careful not to wake our friends
As they slept we had conversation
That seemed to know no end
You told me of your weakness
Of your fears and your past
I shared with you the stories
Of the loves that could not last
For once I was contempt
Just to have someone there
Somehow in that conversation
I let myself open up and care
My heart ceased it's breaking
And my mind laid to rest
Your eyes brought me smiles
While your heartbeat eased my breath
For the first time I was happy
Happy to have someone to hold
As I wrapped you tight in my arms
To shield you from the cold
As the sun began to rise
In the window it shined through
You pulled me ever closer
And I fell asleep, At Peace, with you
I HEAR the Shadowy Horses, their long manes a-shake,
Their hoofs heavy with tumult, their eyes glimmering white;
The North unfolds above them clinging, creeping night,
The East her hidden joy before the morning break,
The West weeps in pale dew and sighs passing away,
The South is pouring down roses of crimson fire:
O vanity of Sleep, Hope, Dream, endless Desire,
The Horses of Disaster plunge in the heavy clay:
Beloved, let your eyes half close, and your heart beat
Over my heart, and your hair fall over my breast,
Drowning love's lonely hour in deep twilight of rest,
And hiding their tossing manes and their tumultuous feet.
I find no peace, and all my war is done.
I fear and hope. I burn and freeze like ice.
I fly above the wind, yet can I not arise;
And nought I have, and all the world I season.
That loseth nor locketh holdeth me in prison
And holdeth me not--yet can I scape no wise--
Nor letteth me live nor die at my device,
And yet of death it giveth me occasion.
Without eyen I see, and without tongue I plain.
I desire to perish, and yet I ask health.
I love another, and thus I hate myself.
I feed me in sorrow and laugh in all my pain;
Likewise displeaseth me both life and death,
And my delight is causer of this strife.
63
If pain for peace prepares
Lo, what "Augustan" years
Our feet await!
If springs from winter rise,
Can the Anemones
Be reckoned up?
If night stands fast—then noon
To gird us for the sun,
What gaze!
When from a thousand skies
On our developed eyes
Noons blaze!
I many times thought Peace had come
When Peace was far away—
As Wrecked Men—deem they sight the Land—
At Centre of the Sea—
And struggle slacker—but to prove
As hopelessly as I—
How many the fictitious Shores—
Before the Harbor be—
So much has been written
About peace in the world,
Peace on earth, peace be with you,
Shalom.
Peace is more
Than the absence of war,
More than tolerance
More than acceptance.
There can never be peace
Between individuals or nations,
Until we are at peace with ourselves
That inner peace that passes understanding.
Men say the world is full of fear and hate,
And all life's ripening harvest-fields await
The restless sickle of relentless fate.
But I, sweet Soul, rejoice that I was born,
When from the climbing terraces of corn
I watch the golden orioles of Thy morn.
What care I for the world's desire and pride,
Who know the silver wings that gleam and glide,
The homing pigeons of Thine eventide?
What care I for the world's loud weariness,
Who dream in twilight granaries Thou dost bless
With delicate sheaves of mellow silences?
Say, shall I heed dull presages of doom,
Or dread the rumoured loneliness and gloom,
The mute and mythic terror of the tomb?
For my glad heart is drunk and drenched with Thee,
O inmost wind of living ecstasy!
O intimate essence of eternity!
Now, God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour,
And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move,
And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
And all the little emptiness of love!
Oh! we, who have known shame, we have found release there,
Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending,
Naught broken save this body, lost but breath;
Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
But only agony, and that has ending;
And the worst friend and enemy is but Death.
(Judges, vi.25)
Jesus! whose blood so freely stream'd
To satisfy the law's demand;
By Thee from guilt and wrath redeem'd,
Before the Father's face I stand.
To reconcile offending man,
Make Justice drop her angry rod;
What creature could have form'd the plan,
Or who fulfil it but a God?
No drop remains of all the curse,
For wretches who deserved the whole;
No arrows dipt in wrath to pierce
The guilty, but returning soul.
Peace by such means so dearly bought,
What rebel could have hoped to see?
Peace by his injured Sovereign wrought,
His Sovereign fasten'd to a tree.
Now, Lord, Thy feeble worm prepare!
For strife with earth and hell begins;
Conform and gird me for the war;
They hate the soul that hates his sins.
Let them in horrid league agree!
They may assault, they may distress;
But cannot quench Thy love to me,
Nor rob me of the Lord my peace.
Sometimes a light surprises
The Christian while he sings;
It is the Lord who rises
With healing in his wings:
When comforts are declining,
He grants the soul again
A season of clear shining,
To cheer it after rain.
In holy contemplation,
We sweetly then pursue
The theme of God's salvation,
And find it ever new:
Set free from present sorrow,
We cheerfully can say,
E'en let th' unknown to-morrow
Bring with it what it may.
It can bring with it nothing
But he will bear us through;
Who gives the lilies clothing,
Will clothe his people too:
Beneath the spreading heavens,
No creature but is fed;
And he who feeds the ravens,
Will give his children bread.
Though vine nor fig-tree neither
Their wonted fruit shall bear,
Though all the field should wither,
Nor flocks nor herds be there:
Yet God the same abiding,
His praise shall tune my voice;
For while in him confiding,
I cannot but rejoice.
Sometimes a light surprises
The Christian while he sings;
It is the Lord who rises
With healing on His wings;
When comforts are declining,
He grants the soul again
A season of clear shining,
To cheer it after rain.
In holy contemplation
We sweetly then pursue
The theme of God's salvation,
And find it ever new;
Set free from present sorrow,
We cheerfully can say,
E'en let the unknown to-morrow
Bring with it what it may!
It can bring with it nothing,
But He will bear us through;
Who gives the lilies clothing,
Will clothe His people too;
Beneath the spreading heavens
No creature but is fed;
And He who feeds the ravens
Will give His children bread.
Though vine nor fig tree neither
Their wonted fruit shall bear,
Though all the field should wither,
Nor flocks nor herds be there:
Yet God the same abiding,
His praise shall tune my voice;
For, while in Him confiding,
I cannot but rejoice.
We are fighting for justice and peace for all,
And our young men are answering the call.
They are giving their lives for you and for me,
On land, in the air, and out on the sea.
They are brave and strong, and have faith in God.
And are fighting for the land their forefathers trod.
If they can fight for justice and peace.
Let's not let our efforts cease. Let us back home, toil-from light to dark
So our boys, can hit their mark,
This justice and peace, although it is old,
Is a tale that years and centuries unfold.
Our country was founded upon this claim,
And it's our privilege to keep it the same.
This was and conflict, I know will soon end.
For justice and peace; to God are akin.
Rising pasture as if viewed from angel flight
A mind-blowing beautiful East West imagery
The central topography high up on the hill
To left and east amazing views, hard wood forests
Mature soaring and stately red maples, buckeyes
Black cherries, silver-bells, pignuts, red oaks, hemlocks
Several hundred feet below a snaking Powell
River gurgles pristine over to Norris Lake
Monumental Cumberland Mountain Chains in full
View, just over those peaks views of old Kentucky
The peninsular surrounded in Tennessee
Valley Authority’s glistening assignment
Remote, isolated, secluded and gorgeous
Multicolored green quilts lay far out beyond
Revealing one gray and weathered century old barn
A distant farmhouse’s chimney sends out kisses of peace
Amazing graces to our country’s history, Indians
Of past hunted noble buffalo and became
Cast away savages sent away from sacred lands
Fortune seeking immigrants slowly worked bands
Of great covered wagon teams in Westward dreams
An animation filled in spirit and courage
Sometimes catalogued property of Kentucky
Both Grant and Lee captured the Cumberland Gap
Prized the ability to see great distances
Into wilderness, both raw pain and grand beauty
Intermingle in ancient earth, a warriors’ path,
A settler’s hopeful promise, a rich hunting ground,
A perilous place of adventure, a Union’s grace
All steeped in an awe inspiring beauty
(Hoping and Praying for this place in Tennessee
December 29,2006)
When you look for peace
then the peace lies within you
When you search for peace
then it is not hard to find
When you want to keep peace alive
then you allow white doves to fly over you
When you make peace with others
then the whole world live in your heart
When you let peace be in the world
then you live in wonderful world
When you allow peace flow around the world
then your hateness will go and love will flow
When you open the door for peace
then peace welcome to your lives.
Let the peace prevail in our wonderful world
Let us live in peace
Among ourselves
That is our natural instinct
Let us live in peace
Among ourselves
That is our only way forward
Let us live in peace
Among ourselves
That is how we will befriend freedom and justice
Or otherwise…
Heaven only knows
What will happen
To our beloved Congo
www.frederickyamusangie.org. uk
My love for you,
How rich in depth?
For joy to cherish,
For peace to restore,
For presence to make known,
My love to engulf!
Fireworks on candles,
Roses embedded beneath.
For love so pure,
For joy to rejoice,
For peace to uphold,
For presence to overwhelm,
My love to sparkle!
Lilies on a river,
Chandelier on the sky.
For love so innocent,
For joy to compel,
For peace to touch,
For presence to gaze,
My love till death will reign!
Why should such gloomy silence reign;
And why is all the house so drear,
When neither danger, sickness, pain,
Nor death, nor want have entered here?
We are as many as we were
That other night, when all were gay,
And full of hope, and free from care;
Yet, is there something gone away.
The moon without as pure and calm
Is shining as that night she shone;
but now, to us she brings no balm,
For something from our hearts is gone.
Something whose absence leaves a void,
A cheerless want in every heart.
Each feels the bliss of all destroyed
And mourns the change - but each apart.
The fire is burning in the grate
As redly as it used to burn,
But still the hearth is desolate
Till Mirth and Love with Peace return.
'Twas Peace that flowed from heart to heart
With looks and smiles that spoke of Heaven,
And gave us language to impart
The blissful thoughts itself had given.
Sweet child of Heaven, and joy of earth!
O, when will Man thy value learn?
We rudely drove thee from our hearth,
And vainly sigh for thy return.
My child wafts peace.
When I lean over him,
It is not just the smell of soap.
All the people were children wafting peace.
(And in the whole land, not even one
Millstone remained that still turned).
Oh, the land torn like clothes
That can't be mended.
Hard, lonely fathers even in the cave of the Makhpela*
Childless silence.
My child wafts peace.
His mother's womb promised him
What God cannot
Promise us.
* The traditional burial place in Hebron of Abraham
and the other Patriarchs and Matriarchs of Israel.
Translated by Benjamin and Barbara Harshav
Where the mountains touch the sky,
Where poets DREAM, where eagles fly,
A secret place above the crowd,
Just beneath a silver-lined cloud.
Lift your eyes to a snowy peak,
And see the soon-to-be we seek.
Whisper DREAMS and let them rise,
To the mountains old and wise.
Climbers climb, it's time to try,
Where the mountains touch the sky.
Take me there. Oh take me now,
Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow.
Where the ocean meets the sky,
Where mermaid dance, where seagulls fly,
A place in DREAMS I know so well,
The sea inside a single shell.
Far across the living sea,
A pale blue possibility,
Beyond the castles made of sand,
Tomorrow in a small child's hand.
Only DREAMERS need apply,
Where the ocean meets the sky.
Take me there. Oh take me now,
Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow.
A common ground for one and all,
Behind the crystal waterfall,
Where Peace flows like a mighty stream,
Like Dr. King I have a DREAM.
Imagine such a goal in sight,
For red and yellow, black and white…
New Delhi, Beijing, Kenya, Rome,
Earth is the place that we call home.
Baghdad, Belfast, Tel Aviv,
One race HUMAN, we still believe,
Come DREAM with me...
Where the forests reach the sky,
Wake to DREAMS, and don’t be shy.
We’ll DREAM the world a thorn-less rose;
We’ll plant then watch it as it grows.
We’ll conquer hate with DREAMS of hope,
We’ll DREAM one big kaleidoscope.
Whisper now; let the DREAM begin,
It's time to trust the truth within.
This is where we seek and find…
A place called PEACE for humankind.
DREAM on DREAMERS, hopes are high,
Where the forests reach the sky.
Take me there. Oh take me now,
Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow.
Now, listen close, the future calls...
'Build your bridges and tear down walls! '
For time has taught and so it seems,
Realities are born of DREAMS!
Whisper DREAMS and let them rise,
To the mountains old and wise.
On the scene came Christ The Lord, not with peace but with a sword.
The sword was The Word of Truth, and to many it became a reproof.
To many hearts Truth would come, to acknowledge God’s Only Son.
But many just wouldn’t believe, and The Truth they would not receive.
For many tradition plays a part, following old ways that sway the heart.
Christ came with the New Covenant, fulfilling the Word prophets sent.
But many men would only dispute, Christ’s teaching on Eternal Truth.
His teaching would have men opposed, to others in their own homes.
A father would oppose his own son, about Christ Jesus being the One,
Who was sent from God above, sent to demonstrate His Father’s Love.
A man’s daughter would cause strife, as she too would oppose his wife.
She also would contest the life, which men would found through Christ.
Truth alone as one’s ultimate source, was for many the dividing force.
Many would turn away from Christ, while they embrace this earthly life.
While others would find true unity, through Christ’s teaching on Eternity.
And Jesus is The Prince of Peace, whose Eternal reign will never cease.
Today He reigns in the heart of men, who through faith are Born Again.
Born Again through The Spirit above, who by faith receive God’s Love.
And today if you embrace your sin, you too, will stand opposed to Him.
But you don’t have to fear the sword, if you will accept Christ as Lord.
(Copyright ©11/2005)
The meadow nourished in softest
Sedges scattered amid violet milk weeds
Incredible flowered attractions
Hosting dainty butterflies, moths and bees
Each patrol finding warm sunny skie-s
Perfumed bliss softly summoning in
These many tiny witnesses for life
And too, sentinels diligently shield
Safe-guarding a precious new beginning
The fawn a tawny velvet-coated gift
Sheltered by loving aunts, sisters and
Mum over near the cedars, sedge and sun
She  watches me in curiosity
Now a gawky yet cute adolescent
Quietly nibbling crabapples not far from
My sacred space on this prayer-filled morn
I.
She comes, benign enchantress, heav'n born PEACE!
With mercy beaming in her radiant eye;
She bids the horrid din of battle cease,
And at her glance the savage passions die.
'Tis Nature's festival, let earth rejoice,
And pour to Liberty exulting songs,
In distant regions, with according voice,
Let Man the vict'ry bless, its prize to Man belongs.
II.
Resistless Freedom! when she nerves the arm,
No vulgar triumph crowns the hero's might;
She, she alone can spread a moral charm
O'er war's fell deeds, and sanctify the fight.
O, GALLIA ! in this bright immortal hour,
How proud a trophy binds thy laurel'd brow!
Republic, hail! whose independent power
All earth contested once, all earth confesses now.
III.
Protecting spirits of the glorious dead!
Ah, not in vain the hero's noble toil,
Ah, not in vain the patriot's blood is shed,
That blood shall consecrate his native soil.
Illustrious names! to hist'ry's record dear,
And breath'd when some high impulse fires the bard,
For you shall virtue pour the glowing tear,
And your remember'd deeds shall still your country guard.
IV.
And thou, lov'd BRITAIN , my parental Isle!
Secure, encircled by thy subject waves,
Thou, land august, where Freedom rear'd her pile,
While gothic night obscur'd a world of slaves;
Thy genius, that indignant heard the shock
Of frantic combat, strife unmeet for thee,
Now views triumphant, from his sea-girt rock,
Thee unsubdued alone, for thou alone wert free!
V.
O, happy thy misguided efforts fail'd,
My Country! when with tyrant-hosts combin'd--
O, hideous conquest, had thy sword prevail'd,
And crown'd the impious league against mankind!
Thou nurse of great design, of lofty thought,
What homicide, had thy insensate rage
Effac'd the sacred lesson thou hast taught,
And with thy purest blood inscrib'd on glory's page.
VI.
Ah, rather haste to Concord's holy shrine,
Ye rival nations, haste with joy elate;
Your blending garlands round her altar twine,
And bind the wounds of no immortal hate:
Go--breathe responsive rituals o'er the sod
Where Freedom martyrs press an early grave;
Go--vow that never shall their turf be trod
By the polluting step of tyrant or of slave.
VII.
And from your shores the abject vices chase,
That low Ambition generous souls disdain,
Corruption blasting every moral grace,
Servility that kneels to bless his chain;
O, Liberty, those demons far remove,
Come, nymph severely good, sublimely great!
Nor to the raptur'd hope of mortals prove
Like those illusive dreams that pass the iv'ry gate.
VII.
New Age! that roll'st o'er man thy dawning year,
Ah, sure all happy omens hail thy birth,
Sure whiter annals in thy train appear,
And purer glory cheers the gladden'd earth:
Like the young eagle, when his stedfast glance
Meets the full sun-beam in his upward flight,
So thou shalt with majestic step advance,
And fix thy dauntless eye on Liberty and Light.
______ Sacerdos
Fronde super mitram, & felici comptus oliva.
Virg.
To the Lord Privy Seal
Contending kings, and fields of death, too long
Have been the subject of the British song.
Who hath not read of fam'd Ramillia's plain,
Bavaria's fall, and Danube choak'd with slain!
Exhausted themes! a gentler note I raise,
And sing returning peace in softer lays.
Their fury quell'd, and martial rage allay'd,
I wait our heroes in the sylvan shade:
Disbanding hosts are imag'd to my mind,
And warring powers in friendly leagues combin'd,
While ease and pleasure make the nations smile,
And Heaven and Anna bless Britannia's isle.
Well sends our queen her mitred Bristol forth,
For early counsels fam'd, and long-try'd worth;
Who, thirty rolling years, had oft withheld
The Swede and Saxon from the dusty field;
Completely form'd to heal the Christian wounds,
To name the kings, and give each kingdom bounds;
The face of ravag'd Nature to repair,
By leagues to soften Earth, and Heaven by prayer,
To gain by love, where rage and slaughter fail,
And make the crosier o'er the sword prevail.
So when great Moses, with Jehovah's wand,
Had scatter'd plagues o'er stubborn Pharaoh's land,
Now spread an host of locusts round the shore,
Now turn'd Nile's fattening streams to putrid gore;
Plenty and gladness mark'd the priest of God,
And sudden almonds shot from Aaron's rod.
O thou, from whom these bounteous blessings flow,
To whom, as chief, the hopes of peace we owe,
(For next to thee, the man whom kings contend
To style companion, and to make their friend,
Great Strafford, rich in every courtly grace,
With joyful pride accepts the second place)
From Britain's isle, and Isis' sacred spring,
One hour, oh! listen while the Muses sing.
Though ministers of mighty monarchs wait,
With beating hearts to learn their masters' fate,
One hour forbear to speak thy queen's commands,
Nor think the world, thy charge, neglected stands;
The blissful prospects, in my verse display'd
May lure the stubborn, the deceiv'd persuade:
Ev'n thou to peace shalt speedier urge the way,
And more be hasten'd by this short delay.
On the Prospect of Peace
The haughty Gaul, in ten campaigns o'erthrown,
Now ceas'd to think the western world his own.
Oft had he mourn'd his boasting leaders bound,
And his proud bulwarks smoking on the ground:
In vain with powers renew'd he fill'd the plain,
Made timorous vows, and brib'd the saints in vain;
As oft his legions did the fight decline,
Lurk'd in the trench, and skulk'd behind the line.
Before his eyes the fancied javelin gleams,
At feasts he starts, and seems dethron'd in dreams;
On glory past reflects with secret pain,
On mines exhausted, and on millions slain.
To Britain's queen the scepter'd suppliant bends,
To her his crowns and infant race commends,
Who grieves her fame with Christian blood to buy,
Nor asks for glory at a price so high.
At her decree, the war suspended stands,
And Britain's heroes hold their lifted hands,
Their open brows no threatening frowns disguise,
But gentler passions sparkle in their eyes.
The Gauls, who never in their courts could find
Such temper'd fire with manly beauty join'd,
Doubt if they 're those, whom, dreadful to the view,
In forms so fierce their fearful fancies drew;
At whose dire names ten thousand widows prest
Their helpless orphans clinging to the breast.
In silent rapture each his foe surveys;
They vow firm friendship, and give mutual praise.
Brave minds, howe'er at war, are secret friends;
Their generous discord with the battle ends;
In peace they wonder whence dissension rose,
And ask how souls so like could e'er be foes.
Methinks I hear more friendly shouts rebound,
And social clarions mix their sprightly sound.
The British flags are furl'd, her troops disband,
And scatter'd armies seek their native land.
The hardy veteran, proud of many a scar,
The manly charms and honours of the war,
Who hop'd to share his friends' illustrious doom,
And in the battle find a soldier's tomb,
Leans on his spear to take his farewell view,
And, sighing, bids the glorious camp adieu.
Ye generous fair, receive the brave with smiles,
O'erpay their sleepless nights, and crown their toils;
Soft beauty is the gallant soldier's due,
For you they conquer, and they bleed for you.
In vain proud Gaul with boastful Spain conspires,
When English valour English beauty fires;
The nations dread your eyes, and kings despair
Of chiefs so brave, till they have nymphs so fair.
See the fond wife in tears of transport drown'd,
Hugs her rough lord, and weeps o'er every wound,
Hangs on the lips that fields of blood relate,
And smiles, or trembles, at his various fate.
Near the full bowl he draws the fancy'd line,
And marks feign'd trenches in the flowing wine,
Then sets th' invested fort before his eyes,
And mines, that whirl'd battalions to the skies:
His little listening progeny turn pale,
And beg again to hear the dreadful tale.
Such dire achievements sings the bard, that tells
Of palfrey'd dames, bold knights, and magic spells,
Where whole brigades one champion's arms o'erthrow,
And cleave a giant at a random blow,
Slay paynims vile, that force the fair, and tame
The goblin's fury, and the dragon's flame.
Our eager youth to distant nations run,
To visit fields, their valiant fathers won;
From Flandria's shore their country's fame they trace,
Till far Germania shows her blasted face.
Th' exulting Briton asks his mournful guide,
Where his hard fate the lost Bavaria try'd:
Where Stepney grav'd the stone to Anna's fame,
He points to Blenheim, once a vulgar name;
Here fled the Household, there did Tallard yield,
Here Marlborough turn'd the fortune of the field,
On those steep banks, near Danube's raging flood:
The Gauls thrice started back, and trembling stood:
When, Churchill's arm perceiv'd, they stood not long,
But plung'd amidst the waves, a desperate throng,
Crowds whelm'd on crowds dash'd wide the watery-bed,
And drove the current to its distant head.
As, when by Raphael's, or by Kneller's hands
A warlike courser on the canvas stands,
Such as on Landen bleeding Ormond bore,
Or set young Ammon on the Granic shore;
If chance a generous steed the work behold,
He snorts, he neighs, he champs the foamy gold:
So, Hocstet seen, tumultuous passions roll,
And hints of glory fire the Briton's soul,
In fancy'd fights he sees the troops engage,
And all the tempest of the battle rage.
Charm me, ye powers, with scenes less nobly bright,
Far humbler thoughts th' inglorious Muse delight,
Content to see the honours of the field
By plough-shares levell'd, or in flowers conceal'd.
O'er shatter'd walls may creeping ivy twine,
And grass luxuriant clothe the harmless mine.
Tame flocks ascend the breach without a wound,
Or crop the bastion, now a fruitful ground;
While shepherds sleep, along the rampard laid,
Or pipe beneath the formidable shade.
Who was the man? Oblivion blast his name,
Torn out, and blotted from the list of Fame!
Who, fond of lawless rule, and proudly brave,
First sunk the filial subject to a slave,
His neighbour's realms by frauds unkingly gain'd,
In guiltless blood the sacred ermine stain'd,
Laid schemes for death, to slaughter turn'd his heart,
And fitted murder to the rules of art.
Ah! curst Ambition, to thy lures we owe
All the great ills, that mortals bear below.
Curst by the hind, when to the spoil he yields
His year's whole sweat, and vainly ripen'd fields;
Curst by the maid, torn from her lover's side,
When left a widow, though not yet a bride;
By mothers curst, when floods of tears they shed,
And scatter useless roses on the dead.
Oh, sacred Bristol! then, what dangers prove
The arts, thou smil'st on with paternal love?
Then, mixt with rubbish by the brutal foes,
In vain the marble breathes, the canvas glows;
To shades obscure the glittering sword pursues
The gentle poet, and defenceless Muse.
A voice like thine, alone, might then asswage
The warrior's fury, and control his rage;
To hear thee speak, might the fierce Vandal stand,
And fling the brandish'd sabre from his hand.
Far hence be driven to Scythia's stormy shore
The drum's harsh music, and the cannon's roar;
Let grim Bellona haunt the lawless plain,
Where Tartar clans and grizly Cossacks reign;
Let the steel'd Turk be deaf to matrons' cries,
See virgins ravish'd with relentless eyes,
To death grey heads and smiling infants doom,
Nor spare the promise of the pregnant womb,
O'er wasted kingdoms spread his wide command,
The savage lord of an unpeopled land.
Her guiltless glory just Britannia draws
From pure religion, and impartial laws,
To Europe's wounds a mother's aid she brings,
And holds in equal scales the rival kings:
Her generous sons in choicest gifts abound,
Alike in arms, alike in arts renown'd.
As when sweet Venus (so the fable sings)
Awak'd by Nereids, from the ocean springs,
With smiles she sees the threatening billows rise,
Spreads smooth the surge, and clears the louring skies.
Light, o'er the deep, with fluttering Cupids crown'd,
The pearly couch and silver turtles bound;
Her tresses shed ambrosial odours round.
Amidst the world of waves so stands serene
Britannia's isle, the ocean's stately queen;
In vain the nations have conspired her fall,
Her trench the sea, and fleets her floating wall:
Defenceless barks, her powerful navy near,
Have only waves and hurricanes to fear.
What bold invader, or what land opprest,
Hath not her anger quell'd, her aid redrest!
Say, where have e'er her union-crosses sail'd,
But much her arms, her justice more prevail'd!
Her labours are, to plead th' Almighty's cause,
Her pride to teach th' untam'd barbarian laws:
Who conquers wins by brutal strength the prize;
But 'tis a godlike work to civilize.
Have we forgot how from great Russia's throne
The king, whose power half Europe's regions own,
Whose sceptre waving, with one shout rush forth
In swarms the harness'd millions of the north,
Through realms of ice pursued his tedious way
To court our friendship, and our fame survey!
Hence the rich prize of useful arts he bore,
And round his empire spread the learned store:
(T' adorn old realms is more than new to raise,
His country's parent is a monarch's praise.)
His bands now march in just array to war,
And Caspian gulphs unusual navies bear;
With Runick lays Smolensko's forests ring,
And wondering Volga hears the Muses sing.
Did not the painted kings of India greet
Our queen, and lay their sceptres at her feet?
Chiefs who full bowls of hostile blood had quaff'd,
Fam'd for the javelin, and envenom'd shaft,
Whose haughty brows made savages adore,
Nor bow'd to less than stars or sun before.
Her pitying smile accepts their suppliant claim,
And adds four monarchs to the Christian name.
Blest use of power! O virtuous pride in kings!
And like his bounty, whence dominion springs!
Which o'er new worlds makes Heaven's indulgence shine,
And ranges myriads under laws divine!
Well bought with all that those sweet regions hold,
With groves of spices, and with mines of gold.
Fearless our merchant now pursues his gain,
And roams securely o'er the boundless main.
Now o'er his head the polar Bear he spies,
And freezing spangles of the Lapland skies;
Now swells his canvas to the sultry line,
With glittering spoils where Indian grottos shine,
Where fumes of incense glad the southern seas,
And wafted citron scents the balmy breeze.
Here nearer suns prepare the ripening gem,
To grace great Anne's imperial diadem,
And here the ore, whose melted mass shall yield
On faithful coins each memorable field,
Which, mix'd with medals of immortal Rome,
May clear disputes, and teach the times to come.
In circling beams shall godlike Anna glow,
And Churchill's sword hang o'er the prostrate foe;
In comely wounds shall bleeding worthies stand,
Webb's firm platoon, and Lumley's faithful band.
Bold Mordaunt in Iberian trophies drest,
And Campbell's dragon on his dauntless breast,
Great Ormond's deeds on Vigo's spoils enroll'd,
And Guiscard's knife on Harley's Chili gold.
And if the Muse, O Bristol, might decree,
Here Granville noted by the lyre should be,
The lyre for Granville, and the cross for thee.
Such are the honours grateful Britain pays;
So patriots merit, and so monarchs praise.
O'er distant times such records shall prevail,
When English numbers, antiquated, fail:
A trifling song the Muse can only yield,
And sooth her soldiers panting from the field.
To sweet retirements see them safe convey'd,
And raise their battles in the rural shade.
From fields of death to Woodstock's peaceful glooms,
(The poet's haunt) Britannia's hero comes --
Begin my Muse, and softly touch the string:
Here Henry lov'd; and Chaucer learn'd to sing.
Hail, fabled grotto! hail, Elysian soil!
Thou fairest spot of fair Britannia's isle!
Where kings of old, conceal'd, forgot the throne,
And Beauty was content to shine unknown;
Where Love and War by turns pavilions rear,
And Henry's bowers near Blenheim's dome appear;
The weary'd champion lull in soft alcoves,
The noblest boast of thy romantic groves.
Oft, if the Muse presage, shall he be seen
By Rosamonda fleeting o'er the green,
In dreams be hail'd by heroes' mighty shades,
And hear old Chaucer warble through the glades,
O'er the fam'd echoing vaults his name shall bound,
And hill to hill reflect the favourite sound.
Here, here at least thy love for arms give o'er,
Nor, one world conquer'd, fondly wish for more.
Vice of great souls alone! O thirst of fame!
The Muse admires it, while she strives to blame.
Thy toils be now to chase the bounding deer,
Or view the coursers stretch in wild career.
This lovely scene shall sooth thy soul to rest,
And wear each dreadful image from thy breast.
With pleasure, by thy conquests shalt thou see
Thy queen triumphant, and all Europe free.
No cares henceforth shall thy repose destroy,
But what thou giv'st the world, thyself enjoy.
Sweet Solitude! when life's gay hours are past
Howe'er we range, in thee we fix at last:
Tost through tempestuous seas (the voyage o'er)
Pale we look back, and bless thy friendly shore.
Our own strict judges our past life we scan,
And ask if glory hath enlarg'd the span:
If bright the prospect, we the grave defy,
Trust future ages, and contented die.
When strangers from far distant climes shall come,
To view the pomp of this triumphant dome,
Where, rear'd aloft, dissembled trophies stand,
And breathing labours of the sculptor's hand,
Where Kneller's art shall paint the flying Gaul,
And Bourbon's woes shall fill the story'd wall;
Heirs of thy blood shall o'er their bounteous board
Fix Europe's guard, thy monumental sword,
Banners that oft have wav'd on conquer'd walls,
And trumps, that drown'd the groans of gasping Gauls.
Fair dames shall oft, with curious eye, explore
The costly robes that slaughter'd generals wore,
Rich trappings from the Danube's whirlpools brought,
(Hesperian nuns the gorgeous broidery wrought)
Belts stiff with gold, the Boian horseman's pride,
And Gaul's fair flowers, in human crimson dy'd.
Of Churchill's race perhaps some lovely boy
Shall mark the burnish'd steel that hangs on high,
Shall gaze transported on its glittering charms,
And reach it struggling with unequal arms,
By signs the drum's tumultuous sound request,
Then seek, in starts, the hushing mother's breast.
So in the painter's animated frame,
Where Mars embraces the soft Paphian dame,
The little Loves in sport his fauchion wield,
Or join their strength to heave his ponderous shield:
One strokes the plume in Tytion's gore embrued,
And one the spear, that reeks with Typhon's blood:
Another's infant brows the helm sustain,
He nods his crest, and frights the shrieking train.
Thus, the rude tempest of the field o'erblown,
Shall whiter rounds of smiling years roll on,
Our victors, blest in peace, forget their wars,
Enjoy past dangers, and absolve the stars.
But, oh! what sorrows shall bedew your urns,
Ye honour'd shades, whom widow'd Albion mourns!
If your thin forms yet discontented moan,
And haunt the mangled mansions, once your own;
Behold what flowers the pious Muses strow,
And tears, which in the midst of triumph flow;
Cypress and bays your envy'd brows surround,
Your names the tender matron's heart shall wound,
And the soft maid grow pensive at the sound.
Accept, great Anne, the tears their memory draws,
Who nobly perish'd in their sovereign's cause:
For thou in pity bid'st the war give o'er,
Mourn'st thy slain heroes, nor wilt venture more.
Vast price of blood on each victorious day!
(But Europe's freedom doth that price repay.)
Lamented triumphs! when one breath must tell
That Marlborough conquer'd, and that Dormer fell.
Great queen! whose name strikes haughty monarchs pale,
On whose just sceptre hangs Europa's scale,
Whose arm like Mercy wounds, decides like Fate,
On whose decree the nations anxious wait:
From Albion's cliffs thy wide-extended hand
Shall o'er the main to far Peru command;
So vast a tract whose wide domain shall run,
Its circling skies shall see no setting sun.
Thee, thee an hundred languages shall claim,
And savage Indians swear by Anna's name;
The line and poles shall own thy rightful sway,
And thy commands the sever'd globe obey.
Round the vast ball thy new dominions chain
The watery kingdoms, and control the main;
Magellan's straits to Gibraltar they join,
Across the seas a formidable line;
The sight of adverse Gaul we fear no more,
But pleas'd see Dunkirk, now a guiltless shore;
In vain great Neptune tore the narrow ground,
And meant his waters for Britannia's bound;
Her giant genius takes a mighty stride,
And sets his foot beyond the encroaching tide;
On either bank the land its master knows,
And in the midst the subject ocean flows.
So near proud Rhodes, across the raging flood,
Stupendous form! the vast Colossus stood,
(While at one foot their thronging gallies ride,
A whole hour's sail scarce reach the further side)
Betwixt his brazen thighs, in loose array,
Ten thousand streamers on the billows play.
By Harley's counsels, Dunkirk, now restor'd
To Britain's empire, owns her ancient lord,
In him transfus'd his godlike father reigns,
Rich in the blood which swell'd that patriot's veins,
Who, boldly faithful, met his sovereign's frown,
And scorn'd for gold to yield th' important town.
His son was born the ravish'd prey to claim,
And France still trembles at an Harley's name.
A fort so dreadful to our English shore,
Our fleets scarce fear'd the sands or tempests more,
Whose vast expenses to such sums amount,
That the tax'd Gaul scarce furnish'd out th' account,
Whose walls such bulwarks, such vast towers restrain,
Its weakest ramparts are the rocks and main,
His boast great Louis yields, and cheaply buys
Thy friendship, Anna, with the mighty prize.
Holland repining, and in grief cast down,
Sees the new glories of the British crown:
Ah! may they ne'er provoke thee to the fight,
Nor foes, more dreadful than the Gaul, invite.
Soon may they hold the olive, soon asswage
Their secret murmurs, nor call forth thy rage
To rend their banks, and pour, at one command,
Thy realm, the sea, o'er their precarious land.
Henceforth be thine, vice-gerent of the skies,
Scorn'd worth to raise, and vice in robes chastise,
To dry the orphan's tears, and from the bar,
Chace the brib'd judge, and hush the wordy war,
Deny the curst blasphemer's tongue to rage,
And turn God's fury from an impious age.
Blest change! the soldier's late destroying hand
Shall rear new temples in his native land;
Mistaken zealots shall with fear behold,
And beg admittance in our sacred fold;
On her own works the pious queen shall smile,
And turn her cares upon her favourite isle.
So the keen bolt a warrior angel aims,
Array'd in clouds, and wrapt in mantling flames;
He bears a tempest on his sounding wings,
And his red arm the forky vengeance flings;
At length, Heaven's wrath appeas'd, he quits the war,
To roll his orb, and guide his destin'd star,
To shed kind fate, and lucky hours bestow,
And smile propitious on the world below.
Around thy throne shall faithful nobles wait,
These guard the church, and those direct the state.
To Bristol, graceful in maternal tears,
The Church her towery forehead gently rears;
She begs her pious son t' assert her cause
Defend her rights, and reenforce her laws,
With holy zeal the sacred work begin,
To bend the stubborn, and the meek to win.
Our Oxford's earl in careful thought shall stand,
To raise his queen, and save a sinking land.
The wealthiest glebe to ravenous Spaniards known
He marks, and makes the golden world our own,
Content with hands unsoil'd to guard the prize,
And keep the store with undesiring eyes.
So round the tree, that bore Hesperian gold,
The sacred watch lay curl'd in many a fold,
His eyes up-rearing to th' untasted prey,
The sleepless guardian wasted life away.
Beneath the peaceful olives, rais'd by you,
Her ancient pride, shall every art renew,
(The arts with you fam'd Harcourt shall defend,
And courtly Bolingbroke the Muse's friend.)
With piercing eye some search where Nature plays,
And trace the wanton through her darksome maze,
Whence health from herbs; from seeds how groves begun,
How vital streams in circling eddies run.
Some teach why round the Sun the spheres advance,
In the fix'd measures of their mystic dance,
How tides, when heav'd by pressing moons, o'erflow,
And sun-born Iris paints her showery bow,
In happy chains our daring language bound,
Shall sport no more in arbitrary sound,
But buskin'd bards henceforth shall wisely rage,
And Grecian plans reform Britannia's stage:
Till Congreve bids her smile, Augusta stands
And longs to weep when flowing Rowe commands.
Britain's Spectators shall their strength combine
To mend our morals and our taste refine,
Fight virtue's cause, stand up in wit's defence,
Win us from vice, and laugh us into sense.
Nor, Prior, hast thou hush'd the trump in vain,
Thy lyre shall now revive her mirthful strain,
New tales shall now be told; if right I see,
The soul of Chaucer is restor'd in thee.
Garth, in majestic numbers, to the stars
Shall raise mock heroes, and fantastic wars;
Like the young spreading laurel, Pope, thy name
Shoots up with strength, and rises into fame;
With Philips shall the peaceful vallies ring,
And Britain hear a second Spenser sing.
That much-lov'd youth, whom Utrecht's walls confine,
To Bristol's praises shall his Strafford's join:
He too, from whom attentive Oxford draws
Rules for just thinking, and poetic laws,
To growing bards his learned aid shall lend,
The strictest critic, and the kindest friend.
Ev'n mine, a bashful Muse, whose rude essays
Scarce hope for pardon, not aspire to praise,
Cherish'd by you, in time may grow to fame,
And mine survive with Bristol's glorious name.
Fir'd with the views this glittering scene displays,
And smit with passion for my country's praise,
My artless reed attempts this lofty theme,
Where sacred Isis rolls her ancient stream;
In cloister'd domes, the great Philippa's pride,
Where Learning blooms, while Fame and Worth preside,
Where the fifth Henry arts and arms was taught,
And Edward form'd his Cressy, yet unfought,
Where laurel'd bards have struck the warbling strings,
The seat of sages, and the nurse of kings.
Here thy commands, O Lancaster, inflame
My eager breast to raise the British name,
Urge on my soul, with no ignoble pride,
To woo the Muse, whom Addison enjoy'd,
See that bold swan to Heaven sublimely soar,
Pursue at distance, and his steps adore.
O SUN of real peace! O hastening light!
O free and extatic! O what I here, preparing, warble for!
O the sun of the world will ascend, dazzling, and take his height--
and you too, O my Ideal, will surely ascend!
O so amazing and broad--up there resplendent, darting and burning!
O vision prophetic, stagger'd with weight of light! with pouring
glories!
O lips of my soul, already becoming powerless!
O ample and grand Presidentiads! Now the war, the war is over!
New history! new heroes! I project you!
Visions of poets! only you really last! sweep on! sweep on!
O heights too swift and dizzy yet!                                 10
O purged and luminous! you threaten me more than I can stand!
(I must not venture--the ground under my feet menaces me--it will not
support me:
O future too immense,)--O present, I return, while yet I may, to you.
How far is it to peace, the piper sighed,
The solitary, sweating as he paused.
Asphalt the noon; the ravens, terrified,
Fled carrion thunder that percussion caused.
The envelope of earth was powder loud;
The taut wings shivered, driven at the sun.
The piper put his pipe away and bowed.
Not here, he said. I hunt the love-cool one,
The dancer with the clipped hair. Where is she?
We shook our heads, parting for him to pass.
Our lady was of no such trim degree,
And none of us had seen her face, alas.
She was the very ridges that we must scale,
Securing the rough top. And how she smiled
Was how our strength would issue. Not to fail
Was having her, gigantic, undefiled,
For homely goddess, big as the world that burned,
Grandmother and taskmistress, frild and town.
We let the stranger go; but when we turned
Our lady lived, fierce in each other's frown.
Part in peace: is day before us?
Praise His Name for life and light;
Are the shadows lengthening o’er us?
Bless His care Who guards the night.
Part in peace: with deep thanksgiving,
Rendering, as we homeward tread,
Gracious service to the living,
Tranquil memory to the dead.
Part in peace: such are the praises
God our Maker loveth best;
Such the worship that upraises
Human hearts to heavenly rest.
When darkness long has veil'd my mind,
And smiling day once more appears,
Then, my Redeemer, then I find
The folly of my doubts and fears.
Straight I upbraid my wandering heart,
And blush that I should ever be
Thus prone to act so base a part,
Or harbour one hard thought of Thee!
Oh! let me then at length be taught
What I am still so slow to learn,
That God is love, and changes not,
Nor knows the shadow of a turn.
Sweet truth, and easy to repeat!
But when my faith is sharply tried,
I find myself a learner yet,
Unskilful, weak, and apt to slide.
But, O my Lord, one look from Thee
Subdues the disobedient will,
Drives doubt and discontent away,
And Thy rebellious worm is still.
Thou art as ready to forgive
As I am ready to repine;
Thou, therefore, all the praise receive;
Be shame and self-abhorrence mine.
Peace
Peace and peace
Peace and peace of mind
Are absolutely different
From one another.
I know, You know
And we have forgotten
What is known here
At this juncture, my dear,
And we find no creature.
Peace O peace let it be, let it be,
among Islands near and far,
with colour and creed no bar
by working together in unity.
Peace O peace let it be, let it be,
and to south East Asia show,
how our friendship can grow
by working together in unity.
Peace O peace let it be, let it be,
with people of the Pacific Ocean,
all keeping peace in motion
by working together in unity.
He stood, a worn-out City clerk —
Who'd toil'd, and seen no holiday,
For forty years from dawn to dark —
Alone beside Caermarthen Bay.
He felt the salt spray on his lips;
Heard children's voices on the sands;
Up the sun's path he saw the ships
Sail on and on to other lands;
And laugh'd aloud. Each sight and sound
To him was joy too deep for tears;
He sat him on the beach, and bound
A blue bandana round his ears
And thought how, posted near his door,
His own green door on Camden Hill,
Two bands at least, most likely more,
Were mingling at their own sweet will
Verdi with Vance. And at the thought
He laugh'd again, and softly drew
That Morning Herald that he'd bought
Forth from his breast, and read it through.
Oh God! I need a quiet place,
Where flows the nectar of peace,
Not that kind of dead peace,
In the grave, one finds with ease.
I went to the Himalayas Mountain,
But peace there was no certain,
As the solitude tore my mind,
A little peace when I tried to find.
I heard good spiritual lectures,
Those from eminent preachers,
For peace, I left no place unturned,
But with a perturbed mind I returned.
Tell me, oh God, that unknown place,
Where lies that elusive peace,
What I need, now I can find,
So, I’ll have peace of mind.
God answered, “Hey you fool,
First learn to keep yourself cool,
Don’t search elsewhere out,
But dive deep into your heart.”
“Peace isn’t an object that lies outside,
But it’s a feeling that’s generated inside.
Learn to cultivate peace in your heart.
To enjoy this peace, better you now start.”
“Know this I’m in your heart.
I fill it up with peace quite a lot.
This divine peace when you merit,
No need to go elsewhere for it.”
The man was seated in a pew,
sandwiched between
his wife and children,
head bowed,
all piety and innocence
on his face
mouthing the words
to the preacher's prayer.
Were his thoughts with God
I wondered, or the woman
I saw leaving his car
following a passionate kiss
the day before.
(I was again reminded
not to judge, lest I be judged)
and I'm sure not perfect.
It's said that heaven
has many rooms
- maybe even one for him.
As for me, when the time comes,
I believe I'll request another floor.
Peace be with you.
Here in the flamin' thick of thick of things,
With Death across the way, 'n' traps
What little Fritz the German flings
Explodin' in yer lunch pe'aps,
It ain't all glory for a bloke',
It ain't all corfee 'ot and stoo,
Nor wavin' banners in the smoke,
Or practisin' the bay'net stroke—
We has our little troubles, too!
Here's Trigger Ribb bin seein' red
'N' raisin' Cain because he had,
Back in the caverns iv his 'ead,
A 'oller tooth run ravin' mad.
Pore Trigger up 'n' down the trench
Was jiggin' like a blithered loan,
'N' every time she give a wrench
You orter seen the beggar blench,
You orter 'eard him play a toon.
The sullen shells was pawin' blind,
A-feelin' for us grim as sin,
While now 'n' then we'd likely find
A dizzy bomb come limpin' in.
But Trigger simply let 'er sizz.
He 'ardly begged to be excused.
This was no damn concern of his.
He twined a muffler round his phiz,
'N' fearful was the words he used.
Lest we be getting' cock-a-whoop
Ole 'Ans tries out his box of tricks.
His bullets all around the coop
Is peckin' like a million chicks.
But Trigger when they barks his snout
Don't sniff at it. He won't confess
They're on the earth—ignores the clout,
'N' makes the same old sung about
His brimmin' mug of bitterness.
They raided us there in the mud
One day afore the dead sun rose.
Me oath, the mess of stuff and blood
Would give a slaughterman the joes!
And when the scrap is past and done,
Where's Trigger Ribb? The noble youth
Has got his bay'net in a Hun,
While down his cheeks the salt tears run.
Sez he to me “Gorbli'—this tooth!”
A shell hoist Trigger in a tree.
We found him motherin' his jor.
“If this ache's goin' on,” sez he,
“So 'elp me, it'll spoil the war!”
Five collared Trigger on his perch,
They wired his molar to a bough,
Then give the anguished one a lurch,
'N' down he pitches. From that birch
His riddled tooth is hangin' now.
This afternoon it's merry 'ell;
Grenades is comin' by the peck;
A big gun times us true 'n well,
And, oh! we gets it in the neck.
They lick out flames hat reach a mile,
The drip of lead will never cease.
But Trigger's pottin' all the while;
He sports a fond 'n' foolish smile-
“Thank Gord,” he sez, “a bit of peace!”
a gentle breeze blows ocean side
the easter lilies usher in the spring
and there you are with your guitar
won*t you play a song for me
cat sang about a peace train and
john imagined the world living
together in harmony but oh how now
world peace seems a far gone thing
there are so many questions
unanswered so it seems to me
while i remember days gone by
when we sang songs of love and peace
You think you hurt and that life has treated you so unkindly
Friend let me tell you about someone who endured so much more
He endured more than any human upon this earth has before
He was laughed at and mocked by those whom he loved
He was wounded for our sins as well
By those whom he taught about God and good
His whereabouts to the enemies they still did tell
He was spat upon lashed, beaten beyond belief
Nowhere upon earth did his body find relief
His own mother watched him die
All sh could do was watch them torture him
Her son as she winced in pain on his behalf
“Oh how she did cry”!
He was torn, and tattered, beaten and scorned
Yet I am sure he hurt more for the hearts
That were broken and for all who for his death, mourned
He took so little for himself, for he came as a servant to all
And not once as he hang upon the cross suffering
Upon his many angels for help did he call!
So unworthy are we still of his life he gave for all
Don’t look back at who has hurt you the most
Or what is not right in your lives
For if Jesus hadn’t died for us-
Friend, you wouldn’t have a life at all!
©Copyright 2004 Becky LaPrarie
Peace, everywhere, peace today!
Peace in lands of scruffy trees and pine,
Peace in lands of olives and wine,
Peace in lands where peaks are white,
Peace in lands where fields are bright.
Peace in lands of oasis and sand,
Peace in lands where people band,
Peace in lands where children play,
Peace in lands where people pray,
Peace in lands in the thick of the fight,
Peace in lands ruled by force and might.
Everywhere, everywhere, peace this day!
Pray that all world leaders lead the way,
Encouraging moral people to stand proud and tall,
No government too great, no nation too small.
912
Peace is a fiction of our Faith—
The Bells a Winter Night
Bearing the Neighbor out of Sound
That never did alight.
The poor young girl
with beach blonde hair
and pale white skin
stands in the middle of the street,
in the middle of a war.
Her face shows pain,
her face shows she wants help.
She goes to the hardware store
and steals a can of purple paint.
She doesn't know better,
so it doesn't matter.
The pale girl opens the can of purple paint
and uses her hands to write a message on the
big brick building wall.
She uses what knowledge she has of spelling,
and traces her purple paint covered fingers
over the wall.
First she draws a P
than an E
than she dips her hand back in the paint.
When she is done with the word,
the purple paint has run down the wall,
but you could still see the word very clearly.
It spelled PEACE.
The young girl takes her hand and presses it to the wall
leaving a very small purple handprint.
Then she runs.
A soldier calls after her,
'Peace little girl, Peace! '
Great cities seldom rest; if there be none
T' invade from far, they'll find worse foes at home.
Within the boundaries of hope,
There are no walls,
Nor is there barrier,
Only hope...
Within the halls of faith,
There is nothing to stop,
Nor cage to capture,
Only hope...
Within the vastness of Love,
there is no one right,
Nor attachment adorn,
Only Love...
Within the soul of self,
There is no condition,
Nor is there containment,
Only self.......
Be Aware....
Be True.......
GJW    27/12/06
He took a frayed hat from his head,
And “Peace on Earth” was what he said.
“A morsel out of what you’re worth,
And there we have it: Peace on Earth.
Not much, although a little more
Than what there was on earth before
I’m as you see, I’m Ichabod,—
But never mind the ways I’ve trod;
I’m sober now, so help me God.”
I could not pass the fellow by.
“Do you believe in God?” said I;
“And is there to be Peace on Earth?”
“Tonight we celebrate the birth,”
He said, “of One who died for men;
The Son of God, we say. What then?
Your God, or mine? I’d make you laugh
Were I to tell you even half
That I have learned of mine today
Where yours would hardly seem to stay.
Could He but follow in and out
Some anthropoids I know about,
The god to whom you may have prayed
Might see a world He never made.”
“Your words are flowing full,” said I;
“But yet they give me no reply;
Your fountain might as well be dry.”
“A wiser One than you, my friend,
Would wait and hear me to the end;
And for his eyes a light would shine
Through this unpleasant shell of mine
That in your fancy makes of me
A Christmas curiosity.
All right, I might be worse than that;
And you might now be lying flat;
I might have done it from behind,
And taken what there was to find.
Don’t worry, for I’m not that kind.
‘Do I believe in God?’ Is that
The price tonight of a new hat?
Has he commanded that his name
Be written everywhere the same?
Have all who live in every place
Identified his hidden face?
Who knows but he may like as well
My story as one you may tell?
And if he show me there be Peace
On Earth, as there be fields and trees
Outside a jail-yard, am I wrong
If now I sing him a new song?
Your world is in yourself, my friend,
For your endurance to the end;
And all the Peace there is on Earth
Is faith in what your world is worth,
And saying, without any lies,
Your world could not be otherwise.”
“One might say that and then be shot,”
I told him; and he said: “Why not?”
I ceased, and gave him rather more
Than he was counting of my store.
“And since I have it, thanks to you,
Don’t ask me what I mean to do,”
Said he. “Believe that even I
Would rather tell the truth than lie—
On Christmas Eve. No matter why.”
His unshaved, educated face,
His inextinguishable grace.
And his hard smile, are with me still,
Deplore the vision as I will;
For whatsoever he be at,
So droll a derelict as that
Should have at least another hat.
The Archer is wake!
The Swan is flying!
Gold against blue
An Arrow is lying.
There is hunting in heaven--
Sleep safe till tomorrow.
The Bears are abroad!
The Eagle is screaming!
Gold against blue
Their eyes are gleaming!
Sleep!
Sleep safe till tomorrow.
The Sisters lie
With their arms intertwining;
Gold against blue
Their hair is shining!
The Serpent writhes!
Orion is listening!
Gold against blue
His sword is glistening!
Sleep!
There is hunting in heaven--
Sleep safe till tomorrow.
Their skin soaks up the heat
Leaving it as black as the midnight sky,
Their eyes wide, white, pleading
Begging to the passersby.
They litter the street
Half naked bodies,
Red and colouring their feet
Searching for a entrance
A door out of the circle of poverty.
Poverty means destruction
Destruction means fear
Behind locked doors we sit in early evening
Too scared to see a black face
Terrified of black feet crossing the threshold.
But why be fearful of your slaves,
Those you whip and beat
Treating like the dirt from the doormat
Where you wipe your feet.
Role diversity causes poverty
Poverty destroys peace
But peace minus poverty
Means Equality should increase.
Who are they?
The terrorist
They spared none,
Mosque,
Church,
Temple, ……
They made fun,
Of innocent,
Old, kids, sick…
While praying,
While playing,
The evil wind,
A gust,
Full of lust,
Resembles human kind,
Beastly mad mind
They laugh seeing blood,
They extinguish
The lamp of happiness,
The persons of dark age,
Full of hellish rage,
The gods of fear,
With no religion,
Bounded with no region,
Killing without reason,
What's their name?
Who is the master of heinous game?
Now whole world wants to know?
When black is going to be white?
When they are going to remove their fleece?
Waiting for PEACE, PEACE  AND PEACE...
Peace, peace, peace,
World wants peace,
You are right Nandita
I do agree, but
Let me add a few lines
Peace is not in war,
Peace is in our toleration,
Peace is in our living style,
Peace is in our perseverance,
Peace is in our love,
Peace is in the Mantra-
Live and let live.
Let us know who we are
and what should be our role here there.
Peace,
Bring it on
Peace, peace
You do no wrong
Peace, peace, peace
You are strong
Stronger then hatred
Stronger than fear
Stronger than the dark powers
of a troubled mind
Peace
Stay with me
Peace, peace
Flee not, try to be kind
Peace, peace, peace
Why hath thou so tough to find?
In the Bible-God says, let there
be peace among all nations.
Peace is something to cherish
and behold...whether in heart
or in soul; peace in Spirit, and in
mind...gives us the feelings to be kind
Peace among group's ...minority, black
and white...leads us to do what's right
Peace in our cities, homes, and towns
is what we all need...if it can be found
Peace in the world...among all Nations,
is just what we need for self presentation.
Peace in our lives, with family and friends
Will help make us all ready... when God descends
But there can be no peace, without,
"God's intervention", so let us all
"Accept Him, " and have a world convention.
I'm having a bit of a nightmare,
Before I even sleep tonight.
I'm plagued by many torments,
All trying to stop me write.
It's death by a thousand cuts,
By many constant interruptions.
The telephone, that noisy car,
And countless other disruptions.
I should dwell in a cave,
To find some perfect peace.
There to write in solitude,
Where every noise does cease.
But the way my luck is going,
I simply haven't got a prayer.
I know as soon as I arrive,
A brass band awaits me there.
Suddenly bells and flags!
Suddenly -- door to door --
Tidings!  Can we believe,
We, who were used to war?
Yet we have dreamed her face,
Knowing her light must be,
Knowing that she must come.
Look -- she comes, it is she!
Tattered her raiment floats,
Blood is upon her wings.
Ah, but her eyes are clear!
Ah, but her voice outrings!
Soon where the shrapnel fell
Petals shall wake and stir.
Look -- she is here, she lives!
Beauty has died for her.
Peace is a flower,
Peace is a bird.
Peace is the sun,
Peace is the moon.
Peace is you,
Peace is me.
Peace is what we want!
Peace is letting life's cares
Roll over your head while
Stamping on them with both feet.
It is daily maintaining control
Of the body, mind and soul.
Peace is steering away from snares
And not taking on life's gloomy cares.
It is being like falling snowflakes
Wonderfully resting serenely as you
Lie on your bed when sick or well.
Peace is letting God have complete control
Of troubles, misery and gloom.
Peace never entertains sorrow
But firmly grips hope for each tomorrow.
Sometimes, peace says speak.
Frequently, peace says be silent.
Peace dwells deep within you and me
Where no mortal being can reach.
Peace cries, "Never let me go
For I am yours to forever keep."
Sweet Peace, where dost thou dwell? I humbly crave,
Let me once know.
I sought thee in a secret cave,
And ask'd, if Peace were there,
A hollow wind did seem to answer, No:
Go seek elsewhere.
I did; and going did a rainbow note:
Surely, thought I,
This is the lace of Peace's coat:
I will search out the matter.
But while I looked the clouds immediately
Did break and scatter.
Then went I to a garden and did spy
A gallant flower,
The crown-imperial: Sure, said I,
Peace at the root must dwell.
But when I digged, I saw a worm devour
What showed so well.
At length I met a rev'rend good old man;
Whom when for Peace
I did demand, he thus began:
There was a Prince of old
At Salem dwelt, who lived with good increase
Of flock and fold.
He sweetly lived; yet sweetness did not save
His life from foes.
But after death out of his grave
There sprang twelve stalks of wheat;
Which many wond'ring at, got some of those
To plant and set.
It prospered strangely, and did soon disperse
Through all the earth:
For they that taste it do rehearse
That virtue lies therein;
A secret virtue, bringing peace and mirth
By flight of sin.
Take of this grain, which in my garden grows,
And grows for you;
Make bread of it: and that repose
And peace, which ev'ry where
With so much earnestness you do pursue,
Is only there.
When will you ever, Peace, wild wooddove, shy wings shut,
Your round me roaming end, and under be my boughs?
When, when, Peace, will you, Peace? I’ll not play hypocrite
To own my heart: I yield you do come sometimes; but
That piecemeal peace is poor peace. What pure peace allows
Alarms of wars, the daunting wars, the death of it?
O surely, reaving Peace, my Lord should leave in lieu
Some good! And so he does leave Patience exquisite,
That plumes to Peace thereafter. And when Peace here does house
He comes with work to do, he does not come to coo,
He comes to brood and sit.
I
IN EXCELSIS
Two dwellings, Peace, are thine.
One is the mountain-height,
Uplifted in the loneliness of light
Beyond the realm of shadows,- fine,
And far, and clear,- where advent of the night
Means only glorious nearness of the stars,
And dawn, unhindered, breaks above the bars
That long the lower world in twilight keep.
Thou sleepest not, and hast no need of sleep,
For all thy cares and fears have dropped away;
The night's fatigue, the fever-fret of day,
Are far below thee; and earth's weary wars,
In vain expense of passion, pass
Before thy sight like visions in a glass,
Or like the wrinkles of the storm that creep
Across the sea and leave no trace
Of trouble on that immemorial face,-
So brief appear the conflicts, and so slight
The wounds men give, the things for which they fight.
Here hangs a fortress on the distant steep,-
A lichen clinging to the rock:
There sails a fleet upon the deep,-
A wandering flock
Of snow-winged gulls: and yonder, in the plain,
A marble palace shines,- a grain
Of mica glittering in the rain.
Beneath thy feet the clouds are rolled
By voiceless winds: and far between
The rolling clouds new shores and peaks are seen,
In shimmering robes of green and gold,
And faint aerial hue
That silent fades into the silent blue.
Thou, from thy mountain-hold,
All day, in tranquil wisdom, looking down
On distant scenes of human toil and strife,
All night, with eyes aware of loftier life,
Uplooking to the sky, where stars are sown,
Dost watch the everlasting fields grow white
Unto the harvest of the sons of light,
And welcome to thy dwelling-place sublime
The few strong souls that dare to climb
The slippery crags and find thee on the height.
II
DE PROFUNDIS
But in the depth thou hast another home,
For hearts less daring, or more frail.
Thou dwellest also in the shadowy vale;
And pilgrim-souls that roam
With weary feet o'er hill and dale,
Bearing the burden and the heat
Of toilful days,
Turn from the dusty ways
To find thee in thy green and still retreat.
Here is no vision wide outspread
Before the lonely and exalted seat
Of all-embracing knowledge. Here, instead,
A little garden, and a sheltered nook,
With outlooks brief and sweet
Across the meadows, and along the brook,-
A little stream that little knows
Of the great sea towards which it gladly flows,-
A little field that bears a little wheat
To make a portion of earth's daily bread.
The vast cloud-armies overhead
Are marshalled, and the wild wind blows
Its trumpet, but thou canst not tell
Whence the storm comes nor where it goes.
Nor dost thou greatly care, since all is well;
Thy daily task is done,
And though a lowly one,
Thou gavest it of thy best,
And art content to rest
In patience till its slow reward is won.
Not far thou lookest, but thy sight is clear;
Not much thou knowest, but thy faith is dear;
For life is love, and love is always near.
Here friendship lights the fire, and every heart,
Sure of itself and sure of all the rest,
Dares to be true, and gladly takes its part
In open converse, bringing forth its best:
Here is Sweet music, melting every chain
Of lassitude and pain:
And here, at last, is sleep, the gift of gifts,
The tender nurse, who lifts
The soul grown weary of the waking world,
And lays it, with its thoughts all furled,
Its fears forgotten, and its passions still,
On the deep bosom of the Eternal Will.
1     My Soul, there is a country
2         Afar beyond the stars,
3     Where stands a winged sentry
4         All skillful in the wars;
5     There, above noise and danger
6         Sweet Peace sits, crown'd with smiles,
7     And One born in a manger
8         Commands the beauteous files.
9     He is thy gracious friend
10       And (O my Soul awake!)
11   Did in pure love descend,
12       To die here for thy sake.
13   If thou canst get but thither,
14       There grows the flow'r of peace,
15   The rose that cannot wither,
16       Thy fortress, and thy ease.
17   Leave then thy foolish ranges,
18       For none can thee secure,
19   But One, who never changes,
20       Thy God, thy life, thy cure.
After Stuart Merrill
Trembling of purple banners in the fight,
Wild neigh of horses in destruction's path,
Howling of trumpets answering yells of wrath,
Dim eyes where slowly fades the living light;
And on the plains, the ghastly heaped up death
O'er which the guns thunder their dull refrain;
And summer is shamed and autumn grieves in rain,
And carnage breathes abroad a hateful breath.
Back! O thou nightmare of the tired world's rest!
The Spring sees blooming at the mother's breast
Pink mouths of babes with cooing laughter rife;
While from the valley to the mountain springs,
Amid the rustle of zephyrs and of wings,
Sound, like young heart-beats, all the bells of Life.
And sometimes I am sorry when the grass
Is growing over the stones in quiet hollows
And the cocksfoot leans across the rutted cart-pass
That I am not the voice of country fellows
Who now are standing by some headland talking
Of turnips and potatoes or young corn
Of turf banks stripped for victory.
Here Peace is still hawking
His coloured combs and scarves and beads of horn.
Upon a headland by a whinny hedge
A hare sits looking down a leaf-lapped furrow
There's an old plough upside-down on a weedy ridge
And someone is shouldering home a saddle-harrow.
Out of that childhood country what fools climb
To fight with tyrants Love and Life and Time?
Now, God be thanked Who has watched us with His hour,
And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move,
And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
And all the little emptiness of love!
Oh! we, who have known shame, we have found release there,
Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending,
Naught broken save this body, lost but breath;
Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
But only agony, and that has ending;
And the worst friend and enemy is but Death.
Peace flows into me
As the tide to the pool by the shore;
It is mine forevermore,
It ebbs not back like the sea.
I am the pool of blue
That worships the vivid sky;
My hopes were heaven-high,
They are all fulfilled in you.
I am the pool of gold
When sunset burns and dies--
You are my deepening skies,
Give me your stars to hold.
AH, that Time could touch a form
That could show what Homer's age
Bred to be a hero's wage.
'Were not all her life but storm
Would not painters paint a form
Of such noble lines,' I said,
'Such a delicate high head,
All that sternness amid charm,
All that sweetness amid strength?'
Ah, but peace that comes at length,
Came when Time had touched her form.
You virgins, that did late despair
To keep your wealth from cruel men,
Tie up in silk your careless hair:
Soft peace is come again.
Now lovers' eyes may gently shoot
A flame that will not kill;
The drum was angry, but the lute
Shall whisper what you will.
Sing Io, Io! for his sake
That hath restored your drooping heads;
With choice of sweetest flowers make
A garden where he treads;
Whilst we whole groves of laurel bring,
A petty triumph for his brow,
Who is the master of our spring
And all the bloom we owe.
Alas, I've searched the world to find
That Peace begins within the mind.
It doesnot rest in other men.
Alone, within, will Peace begin.
No movement, plea, or gathered clan
Can force a peaceful state or plan.
It is the individual who
Must make his dreams of peace come true.
You may not find your neighbor kind,
But donot try to change his mind.
Some will not yield to good intentions.
Forget these ones; avoid dissensions.
Meditate your cares away,
And if they fail to leave, then pray.
Then you will know what Peace is of-
Defeat of Hate; the reign of Love.
Folks greeting those they meet.
Children playing in the street.
People working hand in hand
For the better of the land.
Atonement with the great I Am.
Lion resting with a lamb.
World leaders shaking hands—
In truth—not because they can.
Sacrificing at all cost
To minimize potential lost.
Such, the face of true peace,
Would bring the world much relief.
May strife and fighting ever cease
And “true” peace be increased.
©
PEACE! what do tears avail?
She lies all dumb and pale,
And from her eye
The spirit of lovely life is fading,
And she must die!
Why looks the lover wroth? the friend upbraiding?
Reply, reply!
Hath she not dwelt too long
’Midst pain, and grief, and wrong?
Then, why not die?
Why suffer again her doom of sorrow,
And hopeless lie?
Why nurse the trembling dream until to-morrow?
Reply, reply!
Death! Take her to thine arms,
In all her stainless charms,
And with her fly
To heavenly haunts, where, clad in brightness,
The Angels lie.
Wilt bear her there, O Death! in all her whiteness?
Reply, reply!
The tempest calmed after bending the branches of the trees and leaning heavily upon the grain in the field. The stars appeared as broken remnants of lightning, but now silence prevailed over all, as if Nature's war had never been fought.
At that hour a young woman entered her chamber and knelt by her bed sobbing bitterly. Her heart flamed with agony but she could finally open her lips and say, "Oh Lord, bring him home safely to me. I have exhausted my tears and can offer no more, oh Lord, full of love and mercy. My patience is drained and calamity is seeking possession of my heart. Save him, oh Lord, from the iron paws of War; deliver him from such unmerciful Death, for he is weak, governed by the strong. Oh Lord, save my beloved, who is Thine own son, from the foe, who is Thy foe. Keep him from the forced pathway to Death's door; let him see me, or come and take me to him."
Quietly a young man entered. His head was wrapped in bandage soaked with escaping life.
He approached he with a greeting of tears and laughter, then took her hand and placed against it his flaming lips. And with a voice with bespoke past sorrow, and joy of union, and uncertainty of her reaction, he said, "Fear me not, for I am the object of your plea. Be glad, for Peace has carried me back safely to you, and humanity has restored what greed essayed to take from us. Be not sad, but smile, my beloved. Do not express bewilderment, for Love has power that dispels Death; charm that conquers the enemy. I am your one. Think me not a specter emerging from the House of Death to visit your Home of Beauty.
"Do not be frightened, for I am now Truth, spared from swords and fire to reveal to the people the triumph of Love over War. I am Word uttering introduction to the play of happiness and peace."
Then the young man became speechless and his tears spoke the language of the heart; and the angels of Joy hovered about that dwelling, and the two hearts restored the singleness which had been taken from them.
At dawn the two stood in the middle of the field contemplating the beauty of Nature injured by the tempest. After a deep and comforting silence, the soldier said to his sweetheart, "Look at the Darkness, giving birth to the Sun."
Oh dear peace, you peace us,
Whole day and night we search,
No war we need, we need you,
Crossing far galaxy you come,
You adore and you sing for all,
Like this dusk in Western Sky,
Like the dawn that will come,
Tomorrow will shine with joy.
Peace, unveiling clouds you come,
Like the smile of edentulous sun,
Let sun sleep to wake up tomorrow,
Let sun reborn as child once more,
Let sky crawl in middle of galaxy,
But you swim and run and come soon.
To welcome you, we are waiting here,
We are dreaming whole day and night,
Covering the veil of love you smile,
Peace you peace us by your power.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,29 September 2018. All rights reserved.
The heads of strong old age are beautiful
Beyond all grace of youth. They have strange quiet,
Integrity, health, soundness, to the full
They've dealt with life and been tempered by it.
A young man must not sleep; his years are war,
Civil and foreign but the former's worse;
But the old can breathe in safety now that they are
Forgetting what youth meant, the being perverse,
Running the fool's gauntlet and being cut
By the whips of the five senses. As for me,
If I should wish to live long it were but
To trade those fevers for tranquillity,
Thinking though that's entire and sweet in the grave
How shall the dead taste the deep treasure they have?
No more for you the city's thorny ways,
The ugly corners of the Negro belt;
The miseries and pains of these harsh days
By you will never, never again be felt.
No more, if still you wander, will you meet
With nights of unabating bitterness;
They cannot reach you in your safe retreat,
The city's hate, the city's prejudice!
'Twas sudden--but your menial task is done,
The dawn now breaks on you, the dark is over,
The sea is crossed, the longed-for port is won;
Farewell, oh, fare you well! my friend and lover.
Sweet Peace! ah, lead me from the thorny dale,
Where desolate my wand'ring steps have fled;
Far from the sunny paths which others tread,
While youth enlivens, and while joys prevail.
Then I no more shall vanished hopes bewail,
No more the fruitless tear shall love to shed,
When pensive eve her cherish'd gloom has spread,
And day's bright tints, like my short pleasures, fail!
Yet lead me not where blooms the glowing rose,
But lead me where the cypress branches wave;
Thou hast a shelt'ring cell for cureless woes,
A home of refuge, where no tempests rave;
There would my weary heart in youth repose,
Beneath the turf that shrouds an early grave.
'What happened to your teeth',
she said with eyes that were alert.
'One thousand love bites really,
did what love bites can inflict.'
And when they kissed the glue
that held the dentures
revived itself and stuck
the lovers fast together.
He was no dentist and she
no Spring Chicken.
The missing links had left
with all the teeth.
And that wild night
they slept in bed
and loved each other.
Out in the bathroom,
on the sink were sitting still,
in a tall glass two dentures
fresh and rosy
and they could kiss all night
in total privacy.
I opened the ink-well and smoke filled the room.
The smoke formed the giant frog-cat of my doom.
His web feet left dreadful slime tracks on the floor.
He had hammer and nails that he laid by the door.
He sprawled on the table, claw-hands in my hair.
He looked through my heart to the mud that was there.
Like a black-mailer hating his victim he spoke:
"When I see all your squirming I laugh till I choke
Singing of peace. Railing at battle.
Soothing a handful with saccharine prattle.
All the millions of earth have voted for fight.
You are voting for talk, with hands lily white."
He leaped to the floor, then grew seven feet high,
Beautiful, terrible, scorn in his eye:
The Devil Eternal, Apollo grown old,
With beard of bright silver and garments of gold.
"What will you do to end war for good?
Will you stand by the book-case, be nailed to the wood?"
I stretched out my arms. He drove the nails deep,
Silently, coolly. The house was asleep,
I hung for three years, forbidden to die.
I seemed but a shadow the servants passed by.
At the end of the time with hot irons he returned.
"The Quitter Sublime" on my bosom he burned.
As he seared me he hissed: "You are wearing away.
The good angels tell me you leave them today.
You want to come down from the nails in the door.
The victor must hang there three hundred years more.
If any prig-saint would outvote all mankind
He must use an immortally resolute mind.
Think what the saints of Benares endure,
Through infinite birthpangs their courage is sure.
Self-tortured, self-ruled, they build their powers high,
Until they are gods, overmaster the sky."
Then he pulled out the nails. He shouted "Come in."
To heal me there stepped in a lady of sin.
Her hand was in mine. We walked in the sun.
She said: "Now forget them, the Saxon and Hun.
You are dreary and aged and silly and weak.
Let us smell the sweet groves. Let the summertime speak."
We walked to the river. We swam there in state.
I was a serpent. She was my mate.
I forgot in the marsh, as I tumbled about,
That trial in my room, where I did not hold out.
Since I was a serpent, my mate seemed to me
As a mermaiden seems to a fisher at sea,
Or a whisky soaked girl to a whisky soaked king.
I woke. She had turned to a ravening thing
On the table — a buzzard with leperous head.
She tore up my rhymes and my drawings. She said:
"I am your own cheap bankrupt soul.
Will you die for the nations, making them whole?
We joy in the swamp and here we are gay.
Will you bring your fine peace to the nations today?"
(Isaiah, ix. 15-20)
Hear what God the Lord hath spoken,
"O my people, faint and few,
Comfortless, afflicted, broken,
Fair abodes I build for you.
Thorns of heartfelt tribulation
Shall no more perplex your ways;
You shall name your walls, Salvation,
And your gates shall all be Praise.
"There, like streams that feed the garden,
Pleasures without end shall flow,
For the Lord, your faith rewarding,
All His bounty shall bestow;
Still in undisturb'd possession
Peace and righteousness shall reign;
Never shall you feel oppression,
Hear the voice of war again.
"Ye no more your suns descending,
Waning moons no more shall see;
But your griefs forever ending,
Find eternal noon in me:
God shall rise, and shining o'er ye,
Change to day the gloom of night;
He, the Lord, shall be your glory,
God your everlasting light."
Peace, my heart, let the time for
the parting be sweet.
Let it not be a death but completeness.
Let love melt into memory and pain
into songs.
Let the flight through the sky end
in the folding of the wings over the
nest.
Let the last touch of your hands be
gentle like the flower of the night.
Stand still, O Beautiful End, for a
moment, and say your last words in
silence.
I bow to you and hold up my lamp
to light you on your way.
Trust and treachery, wisdom, folly,
Madness, mirth and melancholy,
Love and hatred, thrift and pillage,
All are housed in every village.
And in such a world’s mixed being,
Where may peace, from ruin fleeing,
Find fit shelter and inherit
All the calm of her own merit?
In a bark of gentle motion
Sailing on the summer ocean?
There worst war the tempest wages,
And the hungry whirlpool rages.
In some lonely new-world bower
Hidden like a forest flower?
There, too, there, to fray the stranger
Stalks the wild-eyed savage, danger!
In some Alpine cot, by fountains
Flowing from snow-shining mountains?
There the avalanches thunder,
Crushing all that lieth under!
In some hermit-tent, pitched lowly
Mid the tombs of prophets holy?
There to harry and annoy her
Roams the infidel destroyer.
In palatial chambers gilded,
Guarded round with towers high-builded?
Change may enter these to-morrow,
And with change may enter sorrow.
Find, O peace, thy home of beauty
In the steadfast heart of duty,
Dwelling ever there, and seeing
God through every phase of being
The Word came down to Dives in Torment where he lay:
'Our World is full of wickedness, My Children maim and slay,
'And the Saint and Seer and Prophet
'Can make no better of it
'Than to sanctify and prophesy and pray.
'Rise up, rise up, thou Dives, and take again thy gold,
'And thy women and thy housen as they were to thee of old.
'It may be grace hath found thee
'In the furnace where We bound thee,
'And that thou shalt bring the peace My Son foretold.'
Then merrily rose Dives and leaped from out his fire,
And walked abroad with diligence to do the Lord's desire;
And anon the battles ceased,
And the captives were released,
And Earth had rest from Goshen to Gadire.
The Word came down to Satan that raged and roared alone,
'Mid rhe shouring of the peoples by the cannon overthrown
(But the Prophets, Saints, and Seers
Set each other by the ears,
For each would claim the marvel as his own) :
'Rise up, rise up, thou Satan, upon the Earth to go,
'And prove the Peace of Dives if it be good or no:
'For all that he hath planned
'We deliver to thy hand,
'As thy skill shall serve, to break it or bring low.'
Then mightily rose Satan, and about the Earth he hied,
And breathed on Kings in idleness and Princes drunk with pride.
But for all the wrong he breathed
There was never sword unsheathed,
And the fires he lighted flickered out and died.
Then terribly 'rose Satan, and darkened Earth afar,
Till he came on cunning Dives where the money-changers are;
And he saw men pledge their gear
For the bold that buys the spear,
And the helmet and the habergeon of war.
Yea, to Dives came the Persian and the Syrian and the Mede -
And their hearts were nothing altered, nor their cunning nor their greed -
And they pledged their flocks and farms
For the King-compelling arms,
And Dives lent according to their need.
Then Satan said to Dives: -  'Return again with me,
'Who hast broken His Commandment in the day He set thee free,
'Who grindest for thy greed
'Man's belly-pinch and need,
'And the blood of Man to filthy usury! '
Then softly answered Dives where the money-changers sit: -
'My Refuge is Our Master, O My Master in the Pit.
'But behold all Earth is laid
'In the Peace which I have made,
'And behold I wait on thee to trouble it! '
Then angrily turned Satan, and about the Seas he fled,
To shake the new-sown peoples with insult, doubt, and dread;
But, for all the sleight he used,
There was never squadron loosed,
And the brands he flung flew dying and fell dead.
But to Dives came Atlantis and the Captains of the West -
And their hates were nothing weakened nor their angers unrest -
And they pawned their utmost trade
For the dry, decreeing blade;
And Dives lent and took of them their best.
Then Satan said to Dives: -  'Declare thou by The Name,
'The secret of thy subtlety that turneth mine to shame.
'It is knowvn through all the Hells
'How my peoples mocked my spells,
'And my faithless Kings denied me ere I came.'
Then answvered cunning Dives: 'Do not gold and hate abide
'At the heart of every Magic, yea, and senseless fear beside?
'With gold and fear and hate
'I have harnessed state to state,
'And by hate and fear and gold their hates are tied.
'For hate men seek a weapon, for fear they seek a shield -
'Keener blades and broader targes than their frantic neighbours wield -
'For gold I arm their hands,
'And for gold I buy their lands,
'And for gold I sell their enemies the yield.
'Their nearest foes may purchase, or their furthest friends may lease,
'One by one from Ancient Accad to the Islands of the Seas.
'And their covenants they make
'For the naked iron's sake,
'But I -  I trap them armoured into peace.
'The flocks that Egypt pledged me to Assyria I drave,
'And Pharaoh hath the increase of the herds that Sargon gave.
'Not for Ashdod overthrown
'Will the Kings destroy their own,
'Or their peoples wake the strife they feign to brave.
'Is not Carchemish like Calno? For the steeds of their desire
'They have sold me seven harvests that I sell to Crowning Tyre;
'And the Tyrian sweeps the plains
'With a thousand hired wains,
'And the Cities keep the peace and -  share the hire.
'Hast thou seen the pride of Moab? For the swords about his path,
'His bond is to Philistia, in half of all he hath.
'And he dare not draw the sword
'Till Gaza give the word,
'And he show release from Askalon and Gath.
'Wilt thou call again thy peoples, wilt thou craze anew thy Kings?
'Lo! my lightnings pass before thee, and their whistling servant brings,
'Ere the drowsy street hath stirred,
'Every masked and midnight word,
'And the nations break their fast upon these things.
'So I make a jest of Wonder, and a mock of Time and Space,
'The roofless Seas an hostel, and the Earth a market-place,
'Where the anxious traders know
'Each is surety for his foe,
'And none may thrive without his fellows' grace.
'Now this is all my subtlety and this is all my Wit,
'God give thee good enlightenment. My Master in the Pit.
'But behold all Earth is laid
'In the Peace which I have made,
'And behold I wait on thee to trouble it! '
We as Believers are admonished to pray for the peace of Jerusalem,
But how or when, to this troubled city, could true peace ever come?
It has had more bloodshed than any other city in the history of man,
But Jerusalem remains the central focus of The Lord's Eternal Plan.
Dialog with both sides will lead to peace is the world's deduction,
When they say peace and safety they'll only see sudden destruction.
The Arabs talk of peace with Israel, as they desire to destroy them,
And they even talk about making their capital the city of Jerusalem.
True Peace in Israel is not being discussed in any Arab Convention,
But peace my friend will only come through The Lord's intervention.
Israel is seeking peace with her enemies by diplomatic negotiations,
While ignoring God's command not to make a treaty with the nations.
For they need not man in time of need but only for God to intercede,
But again, they lean to others just like Egypt that splintered reed,
Now Christ enthroned in Heaven laughs as the nations plot in vain,
For God's Eternal Plan for His City Jerusalem will remain the same.
Jerusalem has been the capital of Israel for three thousand years,
And through history it's been the focus of Prophets and many seers.
They all pointed to a glorious time, for the greatest to the least,
When Messiah will finally reign on David's Throne to be their Peace.
(Copyright © 07/2002)
When despair grows in me
and I wake in the night at the least sound
in fear of what my life and my children's lives may be,
I go and lie down where the wood drake
rests in his beauty on the water, and the great heron feeds.
I come into the peace of wild things
who do not tax their lives with forethought
of grief. I come into the presence of still water.
And I feel above me the day-blind stars
waiting for their light. For a time
I rest in the grace of the world, and am free.
On the Mountains of the Prairie,
On the great Red Pipe-stone Quarry,
Gitche Manito, the mighty,
He the Master of Life, descending,
On the red crags of the quarry
Stood erect, and called the nations,
Called the tribes of men together.
From his footprints flowed a river,
Leaped into the light of morning,
O'er the precipice plunging downward
Gleamed like Ishkoodah, the comet.
And the Spirit, stooping earthward,
With his finger on the meadow
Traced a winding pathway for it,
Saying to it, "Run in this way!"
From the red stone of the quarry
With his hand he broke a fragment,
Moulded it into a pipe-head,
Shaped and fashioned it with figures;
From the margin of the river
Took a long reed for a pipe-stem,
With its dark green leaves upon it;
Filled the pipe with bark of willow,
With the bark of the red willow;
Breathed upon the neighboring forest,
Made its great boughs chafe together,
Till in flame they burst and kindled;
And erect upon the mountains,
Gitche Manito, the mighty,
Smoked the calumet, the Peace-Pipe,
As a signal to the nations.
And the smoke rose slowly, slowly,
Through the tranquil air of morning,
First a single line of darkness,
Then a denser, bluer vapor,
Then a snow-white cloud unfolding,
Like the tree-tops of the forest,
Ever rising, rising, rising,
Till it touched the top of heaven,
Till it broke against the heaven,
And rolled outward all around it.
From the Vale of Tawasentha,
From the Valley of Wyoming,
From the groves of Tuscaloosa,
From the far-off Rocky Mountains,
From the Northern lakes and rivers
All the tribes beheld the signal,
Saw the distant smoke ascending,
The Pukwana of the Peace-Pipe.
And the Prophets of the nations
Said: "Behold it, the Pukwana!
By the signal of the Peace-Pipe,
Bending like a wand of willow,
Waving like a hand that beckons,
Gitche Manito, the mighty,
Calls the tribes of men together,
Calls the warriors to his council!"
Down the rivers, o'er the prairies,
Came the warriors of the nations,
Came the Delawares and Mohawks,
Came the Choctaws and Camanches,
Came the Shoshonies and Blackfeet,
Came the Pawnees and Omahas,
Came the Mandans and Dacotahs,
Came the Hurons and Ojibways,
All the warriors drawn together
By the signal of the Peace-Pipe,
To the Mountains of the Prairie,
To the great Red Pipe-stone Quarry,
And they stood there on the meadow,
With their weapons and their war-gear,
Painted like the leaves of Autumn,
Painted like the sky of morning,
Wildly glaring at each other;
In their faces stem defiance,
In their hearts the feuds of ages,
The hereditary hatred,
The ancestral thirst of vengeance.
Gitche Manito, the mighty,
The creator of the nations,
Looked upon them with compassion,
With paternal love and pity;
Looked upon their wrath and wrangling
But as quarrels among children,
But as feuds and fights of children!
Over them he stretched his right hand,
To subdue their stubborn natures,
To allay their thirst and fever,
By the shadow of his right hand;
Spake to them with voice majestic
As the sound of far-off waters,
Falling into deep abysses,
Warning, chiding, spake in this wise :
"O my children! my poor children!
Listen to the words of wisdom,
Listen to the words of warning,
From the lips of the Great Spirit,
From the Master of Life, who made you!
"I have given you lands to hunt in,
I have given you streams to fish in,
I have given you bear and bison,
I have given you roe and reindeer,
I have given you brant and beaver,
Filled the marshes full of wild-fowl,
Filled the rivers full of fishes:
Why then are you not contented?
Why then will you hunt each other?
"I am weary of your quarrels,
Weary of your wars and bloodshed,
Weary of your prayers for vengeance,
Of your wranglings and dissensions;
All your strength is in your union,
All your danger is in discord;
Therefore be at peace henceforward,
And as brothers live together.
"I will send a Prophet to you,
A Deliverer of the nations,
Who shall guide you and shall teach you,
Who shall toil and suffer with you.
If you listen to his counsels,
You will multiply and prosper;
If his warnings pass unheeded,
You will fade away and perish!
"Bathe now in the stream before you,
Wash the war-paint from your faces,
Wash the blood-stains from your fingers,
Bury your war-clubs and your weapons,
Break the red stone from this quarry,
Mould and make it into Peace-Pipes,
Take the reeds that grow beside you,
Deck them with your brightest feathers,
Smoke the calumet together,
And as brothers live henceforward!"
Then upon the ground the warriors
Threw their cloaks and shirts of deer-skin,
Threw their weapons and their war-gear,
Leaped into the rushing river,
Washed the war-paint from their faces.
Clear above them flowed the water,
Clear and limpid from the footprints
Of the Master of Life descending;
Dark below them flowed the water,
Soiled and stained with streaks of crimson,
As if blood were mingled with it!
From the river came the warriors,
Clean and washed from all their war-paint;
On the banks their clubs they buried,
Buried all their warlike weapons.
Gitche Manito, the mighty,
The Great Spirit, the creator,
Smiled upon his helpless children!
And in silence all the warriors
Broke the red stone of the quarry,
Smoothed and formed it into Peace-Pipes,
Broke the long reeds by the river,
Decked them with their brightest feathers,
And departed each one homeward,
While the Master of Life, ascending,
Through the opening of cloud-curtains,
Through the doorways of the heaven,
Vanished from before their faces,
In the smoke that rolled around him,
The Pukwana of the Peace-Pipe!
You can’t rely on the peace train,
always jumping the tracks
or taking the wrong one
stopping at the wrong stations
and bypassing the right ones
always arriving late or not at all.
Well, enough of that banal analogy.
Even Cat Stevens is off that jag now,
Should I change my name too,
change my appearance,
maybe some tinted contacts and a wig?
I’ll get on board as a forlorn salaryman,
riding the rails until I feel the rumble and steel everywhere I go,
getting jostled by manikins in my sleep,
drinking bitter coffee instead of the Chateau Latour I deserve,
longing for an escape pod to a 19th century  pastoral canvas,
or an express elevator to God,
who will smile knowingly and
speak to me in my own vernacular
and thank me
for infiltrating
and leaving the time bomb on
the commuter peace train.
There was no detonation,
but he knows it was an act of love.
Peace without Justice is a low estate,-
A coward cringing to an iron Fate!
But Peace through Justice is the great ideal,-
We'll pay the price of war to make it real.
Peace will come
When Mankind
Is so dead
IF Michael, leader of God's host
When Heaven and Hell are met,
Looked down on you from Heaven's door-post
He would his deeds forget.
Brooding no more upon God's wars
In his divine homestead,
He would go weave out of the stars
A chaplet for your head.
And all folk seeing him bow down,
And white stars tell your praise,
Would come at last to God's great town,
Led on by gentle ways;
And God would bid His warfare cease,
Saying all things were well;
And softly make a rosy peace,
A peace of Heaven with Hell.
People wish to be settled. Only as long as they are unsettled is there any hope for them.
-- Thoreau
My life has been
the instrument
for a mouth
I have never seen,
breathing wind
which comes
from I know not
where,
arranging and changing
my moods,
so as to make
an opening
for his voice.
Or hers.
Muse, White Goddess
mother with invisible
milk,
androgynous god
in whose grip
I struggle,
turning this way and that,
believing that I chart
my life,
my loves,
when in fact
it is she, he,
who charts them--
all for the sake
of some
as yet unwritten poem.
Twisting in the wind,
twisting like a pirate
dangling in a cage
from a high seawall,
the wind whips
through my bones
making an instrument,
my back a xylophone,
my sex a triangle
chiming,
my lips stretched tight
as drumskins,
I no longer care
who is playing me,
but fear
makes the hairs
stand up
on the backs
of my hands
when I think
that she may stop.
And yet I long
for peace
as fervently as you do--
the sweet connubial bliss
that admits no
turbulence,
the settled life
that defeats poetry,
the hearth before which
children play--
not poets' children,
ragtag, neurotic, demon-ridden,
but the apple-cheeked children
of the bourgeoisie.
My daughter dreams
of peace
as I do:
marriage, proper house,
proper husband,
nourishing dreamless
sex,
love like a hot toddy,
or an apple pie.
But the muse
has other plans
for me
and you.
Puppet mistress,
dangling us
on this dark proscenium,
pulling our strings,
blowing us
toward Cornwall,
toward Venice, toward Delphi,
toward some lurching
counterpane,
a tent upheld
by one throbbing
blood-drenched pole--
her pen, her pencil,
the monolith
we worship,
underneath
the gleaming moon.
We have been given an unnatural peace
By using alcohol and other drugs.
They are nothing but mind and body snatchers:
They are only killers and thugs!
Say no to these beasts and monsters:
Do not let them prey on you!
Knock them out of your life forever,
And begin to start your life anew!
"This war is a terrible thing," he said,
"With its countless numbers of needless dead;
A futile warfare it seems to me,
Fought for no principle I can see.
Alas, that thousands of hearts should bleed
For naught but a tyrant's boundless greed!"
* * * *
Said the wholesale grocer, in righteous mood,
As he went to adulterate salable food.
Spake as follows the merchant king:
"Isn't this war a disgusting thing?
Heartless, cruel, and useless, too;
It doesn't seem that it can be true.
Think of the misery, want and fear!
We ought to be grateful we've no war here.
* * * *
"Six a week"--to a girl--"That's flat!
I can get a thousand to work for that."
War is Peace
Peace is War
War unites against
One common enemy
Peace tears apart
A dream-like society
The fear during War
Gives control to the government
The calmness of Peace
Lets your guard down with sentiment
War causes death
Physically, Statistically
Peace ends life
Emotionally, Personally
War is Peace
Peace is War
When love spills out of the heart, peace rushes in , where there's
peace, and love within! When confronting another individual with
peace, then love return, when there's peace, and love within! When
peace is lived love rushes within tenfold; when there's peace and
love, within! There for went servicing another in time of needs;
then love and peace is restored tenfold; when there's peace, and
love within! To reflect ones on moral standard give rise to self
esteem, and motivation to those whom watches he's day to day
routine, when there' peace and love within! However, when
peace and love is point in the same direction, obstacle fall as peace
paves a widen path for love to travel upon to service other in time
need, When There's peace, and Love Within!
When the time is right and everyone’s the same
Our world will be perfect with no one left to blame
Rage and hate will be a torn up page
Love and peace will rise above
Death will be for the old who lived to love and be sent above
People will be united all across the globe
Everyone will as one loving, sharing, and peacefully caring
And when no bombs fly through the sky and other work is done
Come and see the peace but don’t ask why
Each and every one of us together forever as one
When I cast a look around the world,
I marvel at what I see and hear.
Why, I ponder , is the world at war?
Why, I lament, should the world know no peace?
You world Powers! Put your ammunition in its arsenal.
Enough of nuclear wars, enough of threats of war.
The Lilliputian Third World walking under your Gangatuan feet,
Was created by God just as God created you.
Your duty, it is to help it outgrow its groping stage.
There should be no re-occurrence of the war in Vietnam,
No more fracas in Surinam,
No repeat performance of the Soweto imbroglio.
Rwanda should not be put asunder.
Enough of the Somalia saga.
Ethiopia and Liberia experience we want no more.
Let peace reign in Bosnia Herzegovina.
'No' to war I say, 'Yes' to peace I maintain.
War does no good to anyone.
War kills, war maims, war annihilates.
Turmoil and tribulation all characterize war.
Famine and deprivation are all babies of war.
Wars tear families apart, refugees abound everywhere.
Many are rendered homeless, a lot become hopeless.
Causalities of war in the scenes of ravage and wreck,
Letter the ground in their hundreds and thousands.
Let's have a new world order.
Let's make peace our watchword.
Let peace reign supreme in the world.
Peace brings joy; peace puts the mind at rest.
The world must embrace peace, not war.
The world must live, in peace, not in pieces.
'No' to war I say, 'Yes' to peace I maintain.
WORLD PEACE, is what we now NEED.
Forget the STRIFE! Let go of GREED.
Give up your ANGER, and abandon HATE!
REPLACE that PAIN, with LOVE and FAITH.
To have WORLD PEACE, we must take a STAND.
God placed the POWER in "ALL" of our HANDS.
We can't just HOPE world peace will COME.
We need to ACT, for the TIME has COME.
It's up to "ME" and it's up to "YOU!"
Let us WITNESS, what the POWER of LOVE, CAN DO!
My friend the  gardener who manages
to combine romantic or ex-romantic
with realist and fine poet and
loving gardener and teacher
and much else, harmoniously,
points out to me that the pink geranium
swinging gently in its hanging basket
in the late September sun, with
an effusive burst of flowering
which it alternates with exhausted,
barely green recovery and dry stalk,
puts on this display simply (simply!)
to attract insects to accidentally
(accidentally!)    aid it to
propagate its species..
so I, who am nothing to it
except perhaps a passing Samaritan
who gives it water in a thirsty summer
and, perhaps irrelevantly, perhaps
from deeper cause,
received just now a shout
of pure pinkness from it so that
my senses thrilled, passed the message uncommented
to what seemed like my purest being,
am indeed attracted, my nature to that of it,
animal or human I’ll leave others to decide,
and from that vaguest of cosmic relevance
intend to see it through the winter
to the birth of Spring or spring of birth
with what - my gardener friend -
may well be love
We had this priest come and talk to us on the feast day of St. Joseph and so strangely he mentioned a girl would know the right guy because he'd be willing to sacrifice his dreams for hers and for God's. Not only am I not a god, requiring sacrifice, but my dreams so often don't follow the path I imagine God would dream of. I suppose, at one point, it's Him or me.
Seven deadly pink roses waiting on my windowsill;
terrorized in their muted fuchsia,
fiery spirit festering and still
creeping slow
on towards
searing,
greedy,
hot red.
As if drinking, in the darkness
of lower light and conscious
my sleeping breaths
morphed you into
a grand prophet
but I am not
goddess,
gold idol.
Are you looking for your god here?
I am mud and a whisper of light;
without sight and rich with fear.
Searching for cosmic love,
you kiss ornate images of
starlight down dripping
from heaven's favor
into my bored eyes.
An umbrella being dragged at the day's end.
A seagull churns its wings,
avoiding sunlight,
the hard flight of Icarus.
Pink swimsuits blown in the wind,
in search of due course.
Time is needy, a bronzed babe walks by, a regular
statue of Liberty, her flesh turning to
green palor as the water cools.
In this empty beach dream of deepening sky,
the wet Kremlin and White House
are eroded as our childless hopes.
An old woman collects
seashells-caverns of poverty
to be sold to our deaf ears.
The ocean roars of stolen property.
A beautiful dozen of pink roses
were delivered to our home today.
I didn't know who sent them
for on the note it didn't say.
It was our address, that was what I'd seen
but the name for whom it was sent, was for a, Mrs. Irene.
I read the note that was attached
in it read a message of friendship, love and hope.
'I hope you 're feeling better dear friend.'
this was what the senders note had wrote.
I told the delivery man
That there must be some mistake.
For my name is not, Mrs.Irene
that was the last home owner
so here's your flowers back, to take.
Mrs Irene didn't make it, that was what her husband said
she had battled cancer, and had fought it well.
But I think she sees the pink roses, maybe sent a bit too late
and is enjoying the sweetness of their flowers smell.
Unlock all the doors
To your imagination
Reject all the crap
This world wants you to swallow
And let out all the
weirdness
that this world hates…
...
...
< br>
...
Now picture
A giant pink penguin
Sitting right next to you…
Can you see him?
He's smiling at you
The waves roll back and forth,
crashing. Always crashing.
It crests and then falls,
tumbling down and uprooting the serenity of placement beneath it.
So too do bits of hardened sand and stone get washed away,
exposing the soft clay beneath.
Pounded and damaged, a hurt looking life.
The marmoset turns and blinks; a slow, painstaking blink.
And so, the rain begins.
A posy of pink roses
stand on the alter of my church.
The roses maybe artificial,
but it is what they represent.
There is always a welcome
for anyone visiting here.
They can come to the church for guidance
or comfort there.
They may come from everywhere
and the door is always open
to welcome you inside.
They can pray a bit,
reaching out to our Lord,
or they can come in for a chat
about what is troubling them.
For whatever reason they come
the door is always open
with posy of pink roses on the alter
as sign they are welcome there.
9 February 2008
could my loved one ever forgive me
in that sin witch i so carelessly alowed to happen
i never thought that i could be so blind not even i could have seen
but now it is over will she ever love me again or will she too shun my touch
will she too leave me in the world alone to cry
or enbrace me to be more than that shell that i am
will i live to see another day with out her
maybe or maybe i will love again
no never could anyone replace her she is mine as i am hers
for she is my Annabel Lee and i am her dieing Poe...
It's just a new obsession
A color which makes me go insane
Pink is not any kind of fiction
Pink always helps me gain
Faith, confidence and everything I need
Trust, joy and a bit of laughter
This color helps me succeed
Pink is the color of my eyes
Only when I look at you
Pink makes me an angel in disguise
It's the color which brings joy to me and my crew
Pink is a color so mighty, so great
Pink is the color my face
Turns when I'm late
Pink is the color which nothing can replace
It's the color which I can't stop thinking of
Neither day nor night
Pink symbolizes my love
Pink is the color of the light
Which shines in my heart for you
It's the color of a wonderland
This color shouldn't be withdrew
It's the color of my imaginary sand
Pink is the color my cat wants to be
Pink is the color of the sun which shines
Pink is the color the world can see
Pink is the color which gives me signs
I am really shocked to behold the pink city
Blood when flows near by  the green field
From the ill fatted souls of their mother’s womb
Tear when turns red eyes yet steeped in sorrows
Serial blast such brutal act against humanity
in this maddened world by this mankind
fire when burns the love in men innocent
peace and care when waned by evil insane
should we still  call them homosapiens, perhaps no
unwanted rogues resourced by their own ill design
society still seems wild by the doings of paranoia
yet we call upon justice knocking the door of divine
barbarism still plays  by the laughter of wickedness
slanting across the door of terrorism when befuddled
as when wrought by the minds of ill born dunderheads
can we not classify them in between man and killer giant
still they seem to be more severe and wild by the death
even more dangerous than wild and insane of the jungles
the crown when worn by the heinous world of terrorism
the cruelty has already infiltrated to our blood
yet not the last massacre of trade centre or else where
that has not yet been blotted out from our mind,
still we remember that horrific moments by the death
the process of annihilation when starts
sun may disappear from east or west
man when counts his age by the void in darkness
heart still bleats and blurs  by the hope against hope
and we condemns this domestic terrorism by monsters
God might be feeling pity for those Frankenstein
who never think of their own grave.hanging on their heads
I sill remember the inch cape rock against the storm
Ralf the Rover when embraced the deadly death
I still pray God never allows these heartless worms
to be here again or to grow some where on this earth,
lest the tears may not fall again in the furrows of remorse and sorrows
Among us none stood
moving like magic
gliding feet
never touching blowing
through air
touching everything
touching her.
Just to let everyone know that my ebook
entitled 'Pink Ribbons' is now available for
download (PDF)   from Lulu.
It was hard daddy
Getting off of these pills
I took it out on the cat
He’s hiding under the bed
I took it out on my husband
But that was really no different
I took it out on my body
It hurts most when I'm still
I took it out on the waitress
I'm sorry about that
I took it out on the streets
And the freeway going home
I took it out on the neighbor
He really didn’t deserve it
I took it out on the little girl
Who stared up at me wide eyed and scared
I took it out on my friends
And now I cant seem to find them
I took it out on that dish
Watched it shatter and fall
I took it out on the world
Seeking some sort of revenge
And I took it out on my love
By pushing him away
And now?
You may ask…
Well I’m still here aren’t I?
How am I supposed to be myself, Daddy
When you want me to be someone else?
How am I supposed to act like nothing fazes me, Daddy
When you're the one that breaks me down?
How am I supposed to be strong, Daddy
When you're the one that makes me weak?
How am I supposed to love, Daddy
If you're the one that teaches me to hate?
How am I supposed to care, Daddy
If you dont even care at all?
How am I supposed to spread my wings and fly, Daddy
If you keep me in this cage?
How am I supposed to leave, Daddy
If you never let me go?
Tell me,
Daddy......
How?
I sit on the bed...
waiting to finally meet you..
my heart's racing..
I cannot hide my excitement.
thoughts fill my mind, of how the night will turn out...
you knock, once, then enter the room.
everythings still as we take in eachother.
you hold your arms out..
and i walk into your embrace... wrapping my arms around your neck...
you whisper in my mouth i love you my  kay...
i love you too, love....
i smile... as you gently undress me..
i stare into your eyes, offering you no help,
but encouraging more...
you look at me as if to ask 'are you sure? '
i bite my lip and whisper ' whatever you want.'
you gently but eagerly push me back to the bed...
taking care of me..
devouring my love box..
our legs around eachothers neck...
i do the same... tending to your wand...
i'm yours... i whisper... teach me...
i learn the secrets of your life....of your love
and we share this special night together...
i awake... alone.... remembering the things  my love has taught me in my sleep.
6
Frequently the wood are pink—
Frequently are brown.
Frequently the hills undress
Behind my native town.
Oft a head is crested
I was wont to see—
And as oft a cranny
Where it used to be—
And the Earth— they tell me—
On its Axis turned!
Wonderful Rotation!
By but twelve performed!
Frequently the wood mix pink -
More often not to wood on ground,
Hands color, of the root I, stumble on.
Winds frequent to, more the sail brought
up, figure head of Rosy sun, lifts split sea.
Earth bursts to round, undressed in deepest blue;
Ships brown oak one leg on rail, hardly long ago.
Sakura pixels
perpetuate seasonal
pink of perfection
Flakes from pink paintbrush
brush aside disharmony
serenity reigns
I dream I’m in a Parisian café
With a dark-haired girl
Wearing a yellow skirt revealing
Photographic sensual legs
That would later make me cry
All night in bed still pondering them.
I have so many of these
Intoxicating fantasies,
Massaging her delicate feet
And kissing her toes
With her toenails painted pink.
But then I find myself alone somewhere
On an impoverished street,
And I mostly see old ladies or poor kids
Riding their bikes on weed-infested sidewalks,
And I don’t reject but relish and celebrate the contrast,
It is all the poetry of God’s scattered
Beautiful humanity,
As if you could gather
Every amazing flower petal
On a single flower.
to my grandparents
in bubble-gum pink, reading old comics
we sipped our summers slowly while
the zinnias fried in the gardens.
after you are over the school nightmares
when you're being tested on the things you never read
because they weren't in the book-
the months are yours.
in seersucker dresses, white sandals everywhere
reading paperbacks by the score all the way from
Englewood Cliffs in brown paper, string, unwrapped
with a crackling like the crackling of words you
picked yourself from the garden of language.
or the SBS catalogue
and this is more delicious than ice cream:
Neapolitan striped chocolate, vanilla, strawberry
we eat quietly at the retro kitchen table
mushing it all together in a frothy heaven
while our little dog mysteriously does tricks
no one taught her yet hoping for just a slurp
perhaps, a sudden accident where the bowls slip
deliciously down and she wins the cracker jack prize,
you bet!
fresh peaches from Arkansas, like eating the sunrise,
who could describe it?
who wouldn't want a dress in watermelon colours,
cherry vanilla- it's decided.
chiffon maybe, with a beaded top
that shines like suns unnumbered.
it's just sequins, get over it a voice from somewhere said.
we squashed it like a bug.
eating Divinity candy, peaked like snow drifts,
we carry on.
and now we're on the back porch with sparklers
and it's always the fourth of july.
and we wear sundresses
while learning the scales,
on the piano we dust on Saturdays
zealously, with lemon pledge.
and reading the Reader's Digest we'll learn what to
do in emergencies, like, if you're unexpectedly
caught in quicksand
or at summer camps
where we are horrible at canoeing
and so glad to be back home
where the real summer is.
even if, we no longer drink
orange sodas every day from a vending machine
so homesick near the humid cabins.
and there's so much of it, still left!
all golden vanilla, the moon floats over it.
or maybe you muse, it's butter pecan
and it's not melted yet.
mary angela douglas 27 july 2014
From whispers to heavy noise
My art of love as it melted
In fine connections invisible
From below the arch of brow
In pink I read your eyes
My pride bent in salutation
Your whole being is surrounded
By the music inside my head
My languor and your rhythm
The melody living in my steps
From the sorrows of silence
Sing the song of spring
To the colors of garden again
My empty cup waiting your glance
Come like zephyr from the east
In the street of rapture my garment
Be the banner of the lovers who
Stained in blood for the stones
Let not doubt like the old lady
When Farhad gave his life in blood
When in the dropp of my wine
I see the earth descended in goblet
Red with wine is the horizon
From the depth of heart sing love
I carry the tradition of Majnun
17/3/2009
I’m In the Cresta Lodge Botswana
It was 10h00 at night – sudden need for ice cold coke
Down to the bar – Coke and Ice Please
Not a good idea feeling like I’m gonna have difficulty falling asleep again tonight, but the coke I need despite the intended sleeping fight
I finish the coke‘t was Ice cold and refreshing
Get into bed to sleep – but the coke energy now is keeping sleep a testing
After 11h00 I am still awake
Suddenly I need something else – pink milkshake – it shouldn’t keep me awake
Where do these cravings stem?
Like a pregnant womans woe’s
For future reference
I will not argue such a womans preference
Get in my car at 11h30 to nearest convenience store (Shell garage)
They don’t sell pink milkshake – I settle for a small coke again
Let’s find another garage – closed – also don’t sell milkshake – what a pain
I know this won’t keep me awake – I don’t like another shake
Back to the hotel now
I read a book– A New Earth – is this my ego or the “I” in me
Do I need this for ego fulfillment or does my body really need this nourishment
Maybe if I continue reading I’ll get the answer
Although I really would like to sleep now
It’s late
I need to be fresh in the morning
I have students hanging on every word I utter
My words to them usually dont'melt like butter
My butter will be very hard and cold if I am not at my best
The faith they have in me will not stand the test
I need to sleep now – try my best
If I try too hard I know I won’t rest
Hopefully by telling my Insomniac tale
My mind won’t wait too long
To sing it’s sleeping song
And Hopefully I’ll be dreaming about drinking my pink milkshake
Satisfying this unfulfilled need while dreaming
So Davies wrote: ' This leaves me in the pink. '
Then scrawled his name: ' Your loving sweetheart Willie '
With crosses for a hug. He'd had a drink
Of rum and tea; and, though the barn was chilly,
For once his blood ram warm; he had pay to spend,
Winter was passing; soon the year would mend.
He couldn't sleep that night. Stiff in the dark
He groaned and thought of Sundays at the farm,
When he'd go out as cheerful as a lark
In his best suit to wander arm-in-arm
With brown-eyed Gwen, and whisper in her ear
The simple, silly things she liked to hear.
And then he thought: to-morrow night we trudge
Up to the trenches, and my boots are rotten.
Five miles of stodgy clay and freezing sludge,
And everything but wretchedness forgotten.
To-night he's in the pink; but soon he'll die.
And still the war goes on; he don't know why.
I wish the rain pours out today
Like the way it did on a summer day,
Cold as it was, dark as it can be,
I will not fear a thing cause your with me.
I hope to see the sky tonight,
When the moon and the stars are bright.
I'll lay my soul and mind at ease,
With thoughts of you my heart's at peace.
I've prayed that tomorrow, I will see you,
When you finally have your dreams come true,
When sorrows and tears are only yesterday,
And the pink moon grandly rising up in May.
I wished to be a wind, to fly you away,
Yet there's nothing I can do, If you want to stay,
You may not understand just how I feel,
But I want you to know that I am real.
When you leave me
I feel wounded, uneasy and yet unshaken
I feel sad, unhappy but never forsaken.
Why this happens
Do you ever know that?
I feel overwhelmed with the sky
With the rainbow  above.
I drank the cup
To the last drop
As I felt unquenchable thirst
Of Love…..
I know you never left me alone.
You remain with me for ever
You ever brightly shone
You can leave me never, never.
We have found each other
Discovered all the sweetness under the sun
After all the enquiry I have  made,
You simply made of it a fun.
Do you at all know?
What  your eyes with tears did  show
My love for you was a sacred vow.
I saw in your eyes
A  pink pink rose
What is its exact colour
Nobody but me knows.
I see the red pink nebulas of Orion
that only You are able to unravel
where other stars still are forming
and there’s a bright white light
that shines through it all
and the seven sisters that You alone
are binding together
and I know that You control the laws
of the heavens
and hold sway on earth
l’Envoi
that You will turn off the lights of that solar system,
the sun and moon
on Your predestined time and day
but Lord
I keep hoping for Your big appearing day
and wait like the cabbalistic doctrine
for You to return glorious
to this old earth.
[References:  Job 38: 31 & Isaiah 13: 10.]
Petronella the Pig, quickly tried on her wig.
‘What a picture, I look’, she exclaimed, and partook,
of a large glass of wine, which tasted quite divine.
Her friend, Loretta Lamb, who could always dress glam,
was offered a wee taste, but being in no haste,
to drink before lunch, said she’d later sip punch.
With bold make-up and smiles, the two pals in smart styles,
paraded through the day, up and down the walkway,
and caused lots of weird frowns in their rich satin gowns.
‘I shall always wear pink’ Pig said, giving a wink.
And Lamb’s lovely in white, well more cream, not white, quite.
And my hair must be blonde when I meet the beau monde.
With an Oink and a Baa, they both then travelled far.
Famous without a doubt, and the people would shout,
waving madly their hands, far from Pig's home farm lands.
They very soon became bored, for they’d toured and they’d toured.
Now home was enticing, fame’s worth sacrificing.
Bold decisions were made, they’ll forget the brocade.
Back now both are content, accolades were not meant
to be. A pig’s a pig, rosy, cuddly and big,
and a Lamb’s is just cute, in her warm woollen suit.
The pink of the sunset was like the droop
From the shoulders like the folds in soft
Rays gleamed like diamonds in gold red
From the below sand white was the skirt
From the sharp of creases into the curves
The dunes of sand had shifted overnight
Like the thin line on the lip the shore had
For the surfing ocean of desires spoken time
The lumination was to the night in contrast
On first fingers like rings of the lady in pink
Mermaid to the one on the rock on the amber
Ambition had restraints but may the beauty
Her hand for the kiss before wine of madness
Her legs like widening clayman’s sculpture
Between the legs succulent petals and butterflies
She had the mounds of ice with tips transparent
An evening with music will she adore the night
Mushrooms and prawns and dances like fish
With smooth flexion will her lips on the chain
She but knows how to love from fairy’s land
22/6/2009
Like a beautiful pink camellia that's how you appear to me
That bloom in chilly August on it's dark green mother tree
So bright and fresh and pretty in the wintery wind and rain
That's how you've always looked to me and that's how you will remain.
The beautiful camellia flower that blooms fresh and young today
In two or three weeks if that long will have gone into decay
For flowers have such a brief span they quickly fade away
But in sixty years of living your beauty with you stay.
I feel privileged and grateful for to have you as a friend
And I will love you and respect you until my life will end
You are warm and kind hearted and well loved and well known
And it's due to you and to you only that into a better person I have grown.
You are wise and quite intelligent and beautiful to behold
And you don't have a gray hair on your head and you never will grow old
And on your sixtieth birthday you still look beautiful to me
Like the young and pretty pink flower on the green camellia tree.
Your territory whence your'I'
Looks into the whole world
Blinking for hopeful knowing
Now impinged upon
Perpetrating culprit acute, viral
Trenching violently bloody grit
Sliming your domain purulent..
Pained bulge rubbing for normalcy
You're a wispy dull pupil now
Looking at others for help
I but can not be  inflamed infectious
By you and they Madras-eyed...sorry
Pink and delicate
this rose belongs
to my heart
she overwhelms me.
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose
Above a sea of pink..
I drift by...
and you open the sky....
I sink......
and the salty pink sea....
Waves comes over me..
and the shell..
closed....too soon....
My eyes set their gaze across the horizon
The sun is setting in late fall afternoon
Cold snap in the air as the leaves swirl about
A welcoming view is the painted pink sky
Streaks of pale blue dotted with white
Have been suddenly brushed with a soft pastel
The beauty is breathtaking, such natural artistry
I am in awe of the painted pink sky
I think of you now, how magnificent it would be
To find ultimate and much needed serenity
Wrapped up in your strong arms in loves sweet embrace
To be held by you under the painted pink sky
The ex-Marine walked
into Coach’s bar…
260 pounds…
most of it still muscle…
But what really caught
your eye was his pink dress,
high heels, beaded clutch purse,
and Pippi Longstocking pigtails…
Oh yeah, the five o’clock shadow.
Ordered a beer and barely
drank it before two young men
started making snide remarks…
A fight was brewing…
Coach laid down the law…
Everyone drinks their drinks
and keeps their comments
to themselves or they were out.
The marine couldn’t leave it….
Pulled out his driver’s license
to prove he was legally female
and wanted to be treated as such…
That was fine with Coach…
Everyone was equal in his eyes,
But “last time you were here,
you got belligerent, and that
won’t fly…”
“I’ve never been here before.”
“Well that’s where you lose it,
Cause you were here last week
and I don’t think I’m confusing
you with someone else.”
Beligerent again…threatened
the young men and Coach…
Coach caught him off balance
in his high heeled shoes
and took him to the door
where he/she went into a crouch
and said he was trained
in the martial arts…
Coach backed him out
on Sunset Boulevard…
Horns honking, people hooting…
Maria grabbed Coach’s arm
And he shook it off
“Don’t ever grab me in a fight.”
Her feelings were hurt…
“Jeez, Maria…he may
Be wearing a dress,
But he’s 260 pounds of pink…
You could get me hurt.”
The ex-marine...'I killed
gooks in Nam, and I'll
kill you...'
Now Maria was pissed,
she didn't tolerate racism...
Stepping in front of Coach
'You ought to be ashamed...'
The tall pink lady backed
down the street yelling obscenities...
A month later in the O.J. trial
Deputies had to clear the
Ex-marine from the courtroom…
Same pigtails and high heels…
Different dress…
Coach “He looks good in green.”
to my Grandmother, Lucy W. Young
and to my mother, Mary Adalyn Young Douglas
ah breathlessly exquisite the carnation nosegay, pink spiced
with its center of paler pink rosebuds, pale satin streamers
for a little girl's first recital and matching her dress.
can she reach the pedals in all this pinkness
whisper quiet asks an audience of all the neighbors.
softly, first notes spill like little pink sapphires
onto glass, like
grace notes plucked from a cloud and the older students in
polished cotton, waiting their turn stop fanning themselves
with their programmes.
there should be petals raining down said her mother then
as if she were the flower girl-
at the wedding of Music
said her Grandmother, in gladioli red and stylish,
The Piano Teacher
mary angela douglas 9 august 2014
Pretty as a picture
In her brand new summer dress;
Not that she is interested,
Kids love to make a mess.
(Written April 2014)
Early on an April day
In the land of morning calm
Azaleas bloom pink
At sunrise with a bright salaam They bloom alone
Around a quiet place
Where men, animals and insects
make little havoc of rat-race Azaleas are no Cosmos flower
Standing by the roadside
Flirting, giggling and cheek-rubbing
Against passersby, so dignified
They only bloom pink
Like maidens' heart, so purified
Breathing free fresh air
In the morning glow, misty-eyed
They drift upon the river
Getting neither wet nor dried Azaleas refuse to be tainted
By evening glow on the west-side
Mellowing into a pink shade
Beneath the sun at eventide
A pink bellflower dangling on her strap
shouldering pain, blue veins strangling
the seeds of desire it's Queen heart
conspiring for power and gain
befitting as the drones die caught
in the hem of her gold and emerald attire.
Mon Amant De La Mer,
Your days are martyred in my trust
singing my glories to the wind and sea
and the cold creatures that lurk below
the smooth fluid crust do they also share
in your world, in our wilderness of lust?
In your folly what have you decreed
as the months and years advance
and with what treasures will you court
your queen in the turbulence of your act?
And what great victory shall you stage
behind the curtain of carnal pleasure
with incessant ship wrecks and delays
I still await you as you loiter at your ease.
Loquacious
Unfurled flitting pink
butterfly flags flutter
in forests
near
unfurled flags of
phlox
in the meadows of Fairfax
He was lookin’ kinda cool
Against his ‘pink Cadillac’
Looking on ahead of him
But still always looking back
On a red dirt country road
He took a little cruise
Windows open and breathing in
Fresh air that always renews
Route 66 was the perfect place to drive
Across a farm with a brick-red barn
Wheat fields waving in the breeze
A world with so much charm
Old gas station from back in the day
That always makes you smile
Keep right on a’driving though
On that red road for awhile
Windmills dot the countryside
They complete that country air
Listening to country music
Ah yes, nothing can compare
So you take a country boy like John
Give him a Pink Cadillac
And he’ll look straight on ahead
But still continues to look back!
The pink coat
She put on when it was cold
The pink coat
That was hung up when she was home
The pink coat
That kept her warm
The pink coat
That witnessed her first cut
The pink coat
She wore when she was crying
The pink coat
That knew her plans
The pink coat
That saw what happened
The pink coat
She had on when she walked in front of that truck
The pink coat
That witnessed it all
The pink coat
Had no one to keep warm, now
The pink coat
That wanted to tell everyone the truth about her
Just;
The pink coat
It happened once in amazon
The wooden boat set sail alone
With little kids and mom and dad
Were jovial all together glad
They sail to see another world
Of trees and bees yet never told
The dolphins there are scarce and rare
They swim and dance, yet not aware
Their days ahead are hard and harsh
As fire and steel began the march
Around their scope of clean, pristine
lagoons and land, all clear and fine
The little boat at central point
Of water world, it lost the joint
With real world of far away
as little kids felt strong dismay
They raised their eyes to dad and mom
Amid the loss where no bees hum
And as the fear began to steer
The dolphins click was near and near
"They are fools who kiss and tell" --
Wisely has the poet sung.
Man may hold all sorts of posts
If he'll only hold his tongue.
Jenny and Me were engaged, you see,
On the eve of the Fancy Ball;
So a kiss or two was nothing to you
Or any one else at all.
Menny would go in a domino --
Pretty and pink but warm;
While I attended, clad in a splendid
Austrian uniform.
Now we had arranged, through notes exchanged
Early that afternoon,
At Number Four to waltz no more,
But to sit in the dusk and spoon.
I wish you to see that Jenny and Me
Had barely exchanged our troth;
So a kiss or two was strictly due
By, from, and between us both.
When Three was over, an eager lover,
I fled to the gloom outside;
And a Domino came out also
Whom I took for my future bride.
That is to say, in a casual way,
I slipped my arm around her;
With a kiss or two (which is nothing to you),
And ready to kiss I found her.
She turned her head and the name she said
Was certainly not my own;
But ere I could speak, with a smothered shriek
She fled and left me alone.
Then Jenny came, and I saw with shame
She'd doffed her domino;
And I had embraced an alien waist --
But I did not tell her so.
Next morn I knew that there were two
Dominoes pink, and one
Had cloaked the spouse of Sir Julian Vouse,
Our big Political gun.
Sir J. was old, and her hair was gold,
And her eye was a blue cerulean;
And the name she said when she turned her head
Was not in the least like "Julian."
Pink-edged clouds,
sunset sun.
Bedimming light.
New night begun.
Fortell, what new wonders,
have come to pass?
A new child born,
a new blade of grass?
What things anew,
will there be?
New wonders fathomed,
from the life-giving sea?
Hued pink-edged clouds.
Low sunset sun.
Bedim thy light.
Still, you are not done.
Because, for from thy union,
'tis lucid, sure as dawn will be,
that Life blossoms forth,
from your simplicity...
Pink eucalyptus flowers
(The flowers are out)
Are scented honey sweet
For bees to buzz about.
Pink eucalyptus flowers
(The flowers are out)
Are fair as any rose
For us to sing about.
Pink flower is beautiful
Always so much of anything
Playfully and never dull
As it is inside spring
Tenderly moments to bring on
To every summer night
Until its blossom is gone
With beautiful pinkish bright
Pink flower is like you
With all your loving touch
So much to make and do
If you are in love so much
Nothing is all like this
On to the blue light dark
With new spring dawn bliss
Shades of the petal spark
Fragrances in the air
Full of new summer high
Touching blossom everywhere
In the hours going by
Just like a love to come
When love touches heart
Flowering passion blossom
Now in these days will start
Do not text me or think otherwise
I am just picking flowers from my garden.
Last evening I picked a red rose but
Wow! It proved to be too red for my date
Today I visited the same garden
The only flower I found was a white rose.
Where is my favourite pink rose?
This morning I cycled to the market
Sure, to buy my date a pink rose
But the only roses there were yellow and purple.
Tried to enquire where I could get one
But no one knows where to find.
Went to my flower vendor but nowhere to find
Where will I get my pink rose for my date?
Tomorrow, I'll travel far and wide
Only to get this precious pink flower
And if I succeed, my date will be happy
And my heart will find a solace rest
Amidst the residue of love petals
Just with the pink flower petals.
Where will I get my Pink rose flower?
(Dedicated for my pink flower date)
Does not making you happy, with a snappier pink,
make you excited? Snap, snap...your lips did they...purse
this word, or discard it...?
Who would not die, to scream her oinks all there life,
do you fear, will these simple words,
, requested...now get me arrested...
New clean words, washed free, over and over again.
Do they really, sound quite like the others, in your mind..?
Blush me, I will blush you to death, i live for your blush.
your blush drowns me, in seas of pink, that make you oink.
Did you take all my blush?
Please wait, It for you, will make oceans more.
Pink pants and rosy plants
Pink blouses, never failing to arouse spouses
Pink hot feverish lips
Passionate pants of pink
Love letters dipped in pink ink
You see! You see!
Pink is my colour
Pink is the sweet side of wild
Quite mild
Like a little lost baby child
Of all the colours compiled
Pink is romantic and disarming
All pink roses are ever so charming
Pink is my colour
The fruit juices I drink
Are always colour pink
With favourable odours
Igniting my fire making me desire more and more
Think! Think! Pink always links
With erotic pleasant stinks
Those flirty winks
Combining  with pink
Creating an effect of kink, kink, kinky!
Pink is my colour
Refined or raw
Pink is my colour
And the colour of my door
Pink is my colour
And the only colour I adore
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
In the shade of my live oak tree,
Drinking pink lemonade.
Just about as laid back as can be,
Oh boy, I really got it made.
A little tart, a little sweet, ,
Best batch Elvira's ever made.
Time to get off my tired feet,
With a cold glass of lemonade.
I could use a cookie, I suppose,
But I don't want to leave this shade.
Maybe later, after I repose,
Right now I'll sip my lemonade.
8/27/10 Alton Texas
There's this similarity with all the girls,
They want perfection in 2 things to unfurl.
First a set of 32 sparkling pearls
& secondly the ever so important manageable curls.
Being a girl, I noticed my curls dancing all over
Just when I had to meet my boss whose a pushover.
Help my curls...my inner voice called out
In this workspace I dare not shout.
I opened my purse
Let out an inaudible curse.
Hell, where was my pink little hair brush?
Did I have to lose it in this rush?
I decided to beg, borrow or steal
Well stealing a comb didn't seem like a fair deal.
I went around to ask for a comb,
No one lent me one, far and wide I did roam.
The search was going nowhere
I would have to attend the meeting with this messy hair.
Just then my co-worker walked by, she had something to say
I shooed her away in urgency and said tell me whatever at the end of the day.
Walking out of my room, i could feel everyone's stare
I wanted to become invisble or fly away somewhere.
They were glancing my way and laughing
To not-give-a-damn that's what i was faking.
But deep in my heart I was perturbed
Before this importnat meeting i was disturbed.
If only i could find my pink little comb,
Call me obsessed but I can't get over this perfect hair syndrome.
I entered the elevator, and pressed floor no. six
Turning towards the mirror, my tubelight did click.
'Eureka, i found it', the truth came out bare
I saw my pink little comb stuck between my hair.
May be this is what my co-worker was wanting to tell,
May be this was why I got all those stares,
Maybe this was what people were amused at,
After this discovery my pride fell flat!
Pulling out the comb, my cheeks went pink
To this futile chase even my conscience couldn't help but wink.
My pink little comb was no more a mystery
But this stupidity of mine would certainly go down in history.
PREETI DATAR
(13 April 2006)
She asked
Do you want a drink?
I said yes I do I think....
How much do I owe
She said don't  be silly,
Here you go
She asked
So, do you like pink?
I had to stop and think
I said No I prefer blue
But I appreciate the view,
And thank-you
Pink panther
Do love being a famous movie star?
Is your life a paradise?
Or your life is a tough life?
Pink-Pearl  Driver
Still, the  red roses do not grow - in  hothouses,
For them,  until then neon lamps are  ridiculously.
Pink Pearl Necklace; and heaven is this.
My island an afterthought mornings glow,
and pink sands there coral waves grow.
Happy are the oysters every night as pink
sand washes over them in your dreams.
Under water so clear I sometimes forget
and stay to long listening to the waves as
they sing your pink song.
Drifting with the currents of sleep pearls of
yours pink, slip off from beneath your neck.
Filaments permeate the strings of your
dreams leaving me behind on a pink pearl
necklace on this island you float on made of dreams.
pink pink
Confirmed that it was armed
pink pink
Was right to be alarmed
pink pink
Ensured that nought was harmed
pnk pink
Steady hand and mind
pink pink
Micro-chip designed
pink pink
The password was declined
pink pink
Another course to take
pink pink
Caution not to shake
pink pink
Captivity a mistake
pink pink
Beads upon the brow
pink pink
Experience the how
pink pink
No chance to turn back now
pink pink
Be certain not to slip
pink pink
One last wire to snip
pink pink
Two hearts that skip a beat
penk penk
The sound that gives a lift
penk penk
Time to collect the gift
penk penk
The robbery will be swift
There she sat, head tilted back in elegance
Pushed
By her father in her
Pink plastic chariot
Barely two years old
With golden multicultural skin
A crown of silken shiny curls
Framed her gorgeous face of regency
Style, heirs and grace
And she knew
She was fabulous
As she was whooshed past my
Car window
Off through the grey sordid concerete
As a bright cheery spot
Pushed by her proud, proud father
Gracefully
Picking her tiny
Button nose
The Pink butterfly
looking like pink shirts,
My pink thoughts
looking like mom's skirt
My inner soul
has a pink ink
love is pink
from the cry of a baby in the sink
pink is nice
I love it to savory perfection
Pink is a man's color
I make it my selection
Pink is the star
that is iridescent
its a half moon
called a crescent
-Pink-
Christian Alexander Williams
Pink is the new Black.
Salmon shirt for your office, goes well this season with that tie.
Father's Day gift from Macy's or did you find out from GQ.
No, it was your wife who told you.
It doesn't matter, we laugh at you all the same for wearing Pink.
Feather light wings that float softly through the air tickled by specks of dust.
Bright white light inflamed with pink and laced with gold.
Raising flowers, changing seasons,
singing in high pitched voices that only children can hear.
Little tiny people in little tiny clothes.
Pink, White and Baby Blue,
Only innocent eyes can see.
Pink nail varnish, Pink lipstick, Pink eye shadow, Pink blusher, Pink clothes that reveal too much Pink skin.
Standing on street corners innocent eyes forgotten.
Long ago were the days when fairies were believed in.
Lost memories and lost dreams,
innocence killed, for a life of nightmares and love ripped at the seams.
At night I think pink looks depressing…
Like a school girls lumpy blancmange
There is something churlish un-exotic
Unless it's of, the most vibrant - colour.
Pink is a misrepresenting, camouflage—
Pink dressing worn is quite un-erotic
At night I think pink looks gruelling…
And on any given dull day, quite dour
Very much not representing,
Springs first cherry blossom flower.
A blush of pink:
She'd caught a roving eye -
He gave a wink.
Her smile had played a shy
And quaint florescence;
The siren of pubescence
Drew him in.
She bade him touch her hair,
Suggesting that he dare
To kiss her pulsing lips!
E'er the fool a man, he did:
The drips of blood began to cheer -
And so, another rid:
Tips of fangs are sharp, you know -
Dancing ivory feeds her soul -
See her claim a howl upon a chilling wind!
Slain, he lay across a crimson floor:
She grinned in her repletion.
A blush of pink;
Beneath a glowering sky
Her savoured drink
Was done.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2010
< br>
pink pink pink pink pink pink her blush
pink pink pink pink pink pink her blush
pink pink pink pink pink pink her blush
pink pink pink pink pink pink
Pink handkerchief
'Pink' username
Pink bag
Pink eyeglasses
Pink earrings
A girl in all-pink walking
A girl in all-pink talking
A girl in all-pink eating
A girl in all-pink hurting
A girl in all-pink crying
But a girl in all-pink, dazzling
A boy in a pink t-shirt, bedazzled
by a girl in all-pink
A girl with a Pink Soul.
Torn, slapped stamped and burned
How far will you suffer girl?
Why do you cover the scratches and wounds that still bleed?
Why long sleeved covered dresses and that fake smile you wield.
Are you afraid of the comments of revealing?
Then why was a little girl went through all that nasty dealings?
All those beautiful relationships, has it gone stale?
Her life was nothing but a fairytale,
Cinderella, Rupunzel and snow white
Why do they leave her side every night?
Did she reveal too much? , I know what you do
You pretend all the hurt inside you
You smile as if it doesn’t hurt,
When all that pain inside you are ready to spurt.
Why are there smeared tearstains at the dawn?
Why can’t there be smiles instead of mourn?
Why are so many questions unanswered?
Why are there melancholies blurted?
Who are they? Woman or witches?
Considering so many gasping stitches!
You should’ve stood up
Should’ve run!
It’s hard to forget
With a lifetime to regret
Now what would you think,
Of a party all pink,
With pink iguanas,
Dressed in pink pyjamas?
Guests as big as an elephant,
Their size quite irrelevant,
As long as they've the right hue,
Just remember dyes are taboo.
Their skin must be real,
To join in our meal.
The frogs can eat slugs,
And all kinds of bugs,
Like the dragon millipede,
Which is dangerous indeed.
Would it be so shocking,
When flamingoes come flocking?
Do you think I'm shallow,
To eat only marshmallow?
We'll set you a place,
If you have a pink face.
'I think, ' said a dolphin called pinky,
'This is all rather stinky.
We may look quite bizarre,
But colour is not who we are.
Our skin is only one part,
Look at others hearts,
And get to know their minds,
Then you'll find,
That it's best to be kind.
Tell everyone alive,
They can just arrive,
With their own sort of jive.
The more different their dance,
The better to enhance.
Teach us something new,
Follow a different avenue.
What might seem strange,
Can help us to change.
A party for all,
Would be a ball.'
I’m a restless and corrupted one
Hoping for eternal darkness
And an end to they bright shining sun
I’m tearfully dry, embroiled by fear
Trapped inside my tired mind
Cold mountains close in and harshness is here
My sun set, back so many years
Got lost among my tethered roads,
Knowing the way of only not knowing where to go
Into the distance, a pink ribbon of black
I don’t know how it happened but I’m broken
Stretched to the point of no turning back
Ice now over tipped my wings,
The earth approaching fast,
This bird no long swoops and no longer swings
Earth approaching fast,
Spiraling, out of control I lost my grasp,
Earthbound misfit approaching fast
Pink dreams irresistible
That pink ribbon still so black
Pink ribbon black incredible….
I’m pulling back
Palpated her breast, a lump in the throat.
The monster that mama and aunty smote.
Toyed with the pages of a letter she wrote,
about the time, she but crossed the moat.
Devastated and lonely in a bustling world.
To nether shores that she was hurled.
A rending stream of violating pricks.
A heart less journey through so many nicks.
Handled and mauled by alien hands,
her heart and self, now held by bands.
The grief and anguish of yet to come.
No flames are doused by bottles of rum.
Just as she stood, a woman in her own.
this saga of horror, was at her thrown.
How she hated the pitying looks.
Frantically sought the net and books.
With every passing day, the chances grim.
No more the charmers to pander a whim.
Dragged like mom, to the butchers den.
So broken she spoke of marcescent men.
Lost her spirit and her womanliness.
The warmth and feel of a loving caress.
One lump or two?
Ma'am….your coffee?
One lump or two?
Such an innocent question
uttered hundreds of times
in tea rooms, coffee houses,
restaurants, airplanes.
Today, those words
had the power
to bring her to her knees.
No amount of chamomile
or honey capable
of soothing her pain.
She was drowning
in a sea of sorrow,
fearful of what
tomorrow would bring.
How could she face
this new reflection,
scarred, disfigured?
What would she see
reflecting in his eyes?
He said he would always
love her, no matter what.
He said she would always
be beautiful to him,
but this....this
isn't what crosses your
mind, vowing in
sickness and health.
Each day she'll carry on,
with a stiff upper lip
and pink ribbons in her hair,
stuffing the prosthetic
into her bra, no longer
adorned with sheer lace.
She'll march with an
army of women.
She's grateful to be
among the living,
a survivor as she's
now known.But she misses
her curves, even if sometimes
they sagged.She misses
the tingling of her nipples
when her husband held
her in his arms.She
misses feeling like a woman.
She misses feeling
whole.
Ma'am?
One lump or two?
She replied,
Oh, No Thank You.
No lumps for me.
{First published in Wait a Minute, I Have to Take Off My Bra! by Inkspotter Publishing, Canada 2011}
Pink ribbons span the evening sky
And trim your feathered bed
Now I will sing a lullaby
Lay down your sleepy head
You are the universal child
You, the child of the world
Born as to be yet sweet and mild
With hair that`s softly curled
The world has seen another day
The earth has turned again
The birds have watched you laugh and play
Betwixt the sun and rain
You are the universal child
You, the child of the world
By Mother Nature you are styled
In whom the rest are furled
The world has passed yet slowly by
This earth so turned in vain
For, sorrowing, it saw you cry
And felt your silent pain
You are the universal child
You, the child of the world
I pray you'll never be defiled
Nor fear at you be hurled
Like a beautiful pink rose
She is in prime to bulldoze
Where ever she goes
Is well taken by those
Who know the grace and spirit
Which is ready to establish writ
By being always fit
With full force she can hit
Sublimity is her grace
Which determines her race
She has the graceful pace
Innocence plays on her face
I am victim just to see
Only on love plea
Where ever I happen to be
I am lost she is she
Col Muhammad Khalid Khan
Copyright 2014 Golden Glow
I love every single color of roses
The gardeners have created
Beauty of a rose certainly
Cannot be understated
Reds are bright or a deep color
Yellow the color of the sun
And lavender roses are special
And I find them so much fun
Orange roses are captivating
So many shades of them all
Some roses are bushes
And long-stemmed are very tall
Multi-colored roses so lovely
You just can not get enough
You can cut them for bouquets
For their stems are very tough
The fragrance, oh the fragrance
Is virtually hard to express
Almost a phenomenon
Just part of nature I guess
But the rose most special to me
You’ll find in poetry or prose
And that is my very favorite
Loveliest of all, the pink rose!
I wash my hands, in your ink, fast between a
valley, it clings to me, lives in me, my pen.
and Waves, that run, i float on, the rose and hand,
and the sun on my face, this rose a tender bud.
I cannot share my forest, only you may know your
face, and rose petals find new lips, alive in silk.
Pink full lips glow red and they flood my scents
with folded secrets, and this nose, this tounge burn.
Orchestras, arrangements, notes that seize a score
of music cleft with bars, and  pink, red and sun shine.
Pink is always, never one to leave you on your own, to
find your way that is your home, out side, and Rush.
Pink words are royal words to some, it is rare, to know
another forum and compromise, this norm, why is to tired.
I am the male, i will wear her pink, it is my crown.
Roses are never found confined, when i can make her proud.
When took a dip in Ganga
that pink sari
imbibed a lot of Advaitha.
...glued to her skin
and lost identity...
became a mound of her mounds
curve of her curves
and dip of her dips.
I knew how euphoric that pinky felt
When dried up and separated from her
...retained her shape.
Two years ago...
A spritely
Human angel in a little pale pink nighty and slippers
Lean't over
The sofa
End
And
Kissed
My forehead gently whispering
'Night Kazy, see you in the morning'
There was not many mornings left
I miss that gentle kiss
This Jesus thing,
anti-gay,
Uganda, Arizona,
discrimination you feel.
Florida's
jeb Bush laws,
sex offenders
that live beneath
bridges.
Tied to U.S.
the west they once saw.
Living in caves
treating each other
like Hitler did.
And who could have
thunk
that hearing about some crime
five minutes hence
made it more dangerous
than not hearing of such
ignorance now.
It takes decades
to educate all our children
and mere minutes to sign laws
that send us back to the
stone age.
I stand at watch, this dream caught.
Issued in, hers, it wiggles, in a gasp, free.
Disguised the hand, mediums, one portal.
The finger, under lip, pinker, sleeps deeper.
Outside it, below, this dream, flows, reflected
from one quick rush, windows paine projector.
All decked out on 'Easter Sunday'
She's 'Pretty in pink' it would be said
Back to blouse n' jeans come Monday
Then cleaning house n' baking bread
ROTMS
Shell of defenselessness
i rip it brutally
open
tearing the soft oink flesh
steamy tendrils whisper
sweetly
i could not wait
to clutch at them within held in
it's meaty muscle of sweetness
held tartly shut
clenched against me
in vein this blood
i drink
cutting with teeth desire is
hungers appetite
pushing to pull at the edges
as it's now beaton
sound a soft plop gives
way to my sucking mouth
inflamed full pink stomach
pumped
into mine...
Red Lips, are one plan
and the fires they light
burn too hot..Pink lips,
cause me too shiver.
When seen through
transparent windows,
and coiled and fresh
like the oyster, they are.
And black lips shake me
too my core,
and say things, that i need
you to hear me say.
Front or back, in between
they all set me up.
And they move me like rain
back and forth.
The tounge brings me down
and your hand brings me up
from my knees.
That privilege of full lips is not
lost on me,
it's a simple matter of my pride.
lives in thorne
smiles in thorne
sleeps on thorne
yet never cries
of her sufferings
Her each petal are more soft
than ever in creation
Her aroma applaudes
recites anthology of fragnance
though laithful
but never hides her beauty
her obesance quantify her beauty
morning breeze cherish
to have a bathe with her tulle pollen
so blows softly and cool
She is indubious in all seasons
In return the sun  confers her
his pink to make her pink
to make her pink
So, rose is pink
Say goodbye
In pink satin
A schoolgirl grown
Now gone
Her hair of blonde
Time twirled with gray
She slips away
As did our days
Of dance and sash
Pink satin flash
My memory stepped
In sepia stories
Shared in a vessel
JUST US
A ship of fools
Tied to the dock
Of yesterday's dreams
Watching sunsets
We'd never recapture
Believing then, we'd live forever
In the disco music melodies
We hummed in perfect harmony
And making waves where ever
We thought to cast our lines
Out of sight, yes
Out of mind, no
We flip through the dog-earred
Photo album pages
To find our young tanned faces
Without the wrinkles of worry
In the gaity of gravity
Still On our side
The details colors that painted
Our mural of friends
Ever slightly now fades pale
Pink satin.
How many shades of pink are there?
My fingers typed.
That can't be the start of a poem
I said to myself
bit of a dead end that
like the ends of fingers....
where so many things begin
and so many shades of pink.
I grew even pinker, with each
passing verb, she tossed and
slung at me.
They were bar bless, this crown
of thorns, upon her head she tried
to wear so well.
I bled, but I could not show the
harm,
flirting is so dangerous, exciting
In all honesty, never boring.
So pretty Misses, if the vines start
to bulge, and you turn red instead
of pink, stop and please try and
reconsider,
all the mail, returned to sender as
a tease, from all the males.
I sometimes wear shocking pink underwear.
It is my act of rebellion against those who
always tell me that I am too pale for bright colours.
I wear it under my black dress... with no shoes
and a daring glint in my eyes
A rebellious spirit, according to the Bible,
is the same as witchcraft....
Maybe I am a witch, bewitching you with my black clothes,
pale skin, and pink underwear
Maybe I am an angel, with my bare feet.....
running circles around your enchanted imagination
We have to be careful
with whatever we say
as it might happen to us one day.
I knew a fellow once
who had a saying that entered
into every conversation that he made.
He would say quite loudly,
well, stripe me pink.
One day he woke up
and found he was striped pink
but the joker didn’t stop there,
he gave him green and purple spots as well.
He went to his doctor
who was quite mystified
with having a man come into his surgery
with pink stripes and green and purple spots.
He asked what he had been eating,
nothing unusual the fellow replied.
The doctor frowned
feeling there was nothing he could do
told him to go home and rest until it wore off.
The days passed and a month went by
but the stripes and spots remained.
Off he trotted back to see the doctor again
who shook his head saying
there was nothing he could do
as is looks like the stripes and the dots are permanent.
The only suggest I can make
is that you get clothes the very same colour
then no one will ever know
which is the clothes and which is you.
So the next time you utter something ridiculous
be careful what you are saying
as you might end up wearing it
until your dying day.
1 October 2009
The astrologer a babaji,
An Indian babaji,
Dressed in red or red,
Dhoti and kurta
And a linen towel
On the shoulder
With the palmyra charts,
Stones and herbs,
Sitting under the banyan tree,
Sturdy growth
Of the mighty tree
And its thick branches,
Just by the footpath,
near the court campus
Where the litigants go
Frustrated and finding entangled,
The astrologer lies
Predicting
The past, present and future,
Seeing the forehead,
Guessing about,
Holding the hands,
Telling about the graha-gochara,
The bad and bad times,
The criss-crosses of fate.
The emo in pink
She tries to hide
How she really feels
The guy she loves
Won't give her a chance
She feels crushed
Sad, alone, angry
She wants to cry
She wants to know why
She can't have a chance
A single chance
To love him
To be with him
To hold him
To be loved
To be held
The emo in pink
Is misunderstood
Nobody understands
Why she cries
In a corner
Away from the world
He approaches her
To find out
She refuses to tell him
He won't understand
That she wants to be more than his friend
'I can't say'
Is her answer
He looks at her with a puzzled look
'Why not? '
She cried more
'You won't understand'
'I won't if you don't say'
She took a deep breath
And told him straight out
'I love you
But you won't give me a chance
I want to be more than friends'
He finally said
'I do like you
But only as a friend'
He walked away
His words ran through her head
The rest of the day
The emo in pink
Couldn't take it anymore
She knew he'd find another girl
Before he gave her a chance
So she figured she'd save him the trouble
And be away from him
He won't have to hear her say
'I love you' or
'I want to be more than friends'
He wouldn't care
If he ever heard her again
And she'd save herself the trouble
And forever end her suffering
She saw a blade
Nobody to stop her
The blade close to her wrist
She couldn't do it...
She was too scared
She needed a new plan
So she took a walk
To figure it out
It was dark
Too dark for anyone to see
Too dark to see the bright pink she wore
She was crossing the street
And a car came out of nowhere
Didn't see her
Until it was too late
She was dead
She got her wish
She no longer suffered
He found out
And screamed 'WHY?
How could this happen?
I never told her
How I really feel
I said I only wanted to be friends
But was too scared to say
I loved her
I really loved her
I wish i told her the truth'
He saw a knife in his reach
He glanced at it
Picked it up
Whispered the words
'I love you'
And bled to his death
He was found later
With a note beside him
It said
'I regret telling her
Telling her that I'd rather be friends
In case I don't see her in heaven
I wrote this note
Just to say
I love you'
I was always late to the banquet,
Or the fabled buffet ran out of food too soon.
The bridesmaid shoes dyed hot pink,
To match the dresses perfectly, pinched my feet;
Mine were three or four sizes too small.
But I had to wear them anyway because time,
You see, was running out; and where else, do you think
You would find that exotic shade of hot pink?
The wedding seemed to go on for hours;
And I had to stand still, in the front of the church, smiling
As the shoes devoured first my feet and then my ankles-
The cramping rose to a crescendo and never became less.
Later, removing the offensive shoes forever,
I knew that I would have no fancy wedding,
With specially dyed shoes, to torture another girl-
Because the clock would be ticking,
And where could you get that exact hue?
They never knew about my secret pain,
And the much-vaunted marriage dissolved all too soon.
But my feet miraculously remained unscarred,
They showed no marks from the crippling effects of the shoes.
It's strange how unbearable pain can leave no outward sign-
Except in memory- where it will always remain
That exquisite color, that is found nowhere else.
The pink and orange hues of evening
sky,
are beautiful yet sad, as all goodbyes.
With each breath, I can feel life's
fading out,
and hear myself, call out your name
aloud.
An inverted 'V', after a tough day's
test;
a formation of flock, heading to the
nest.
Each morning glows, then grows to
same old night;
the reason, my heart sinks at sunset
sight.
The early morning flight of hope and
pride,
shall culminate, when tired wings
alight.
When I was in Junior High
A term for Middle School in a time gone by
My Mother bought me a briefcase of pink
Although I loved it, I was worried what others would think
It gave the kids a reason to poke fun
Carrying a pink briefcase, I was the only one.
So I’d leave home briefcase in hand then hide it under a tree
Because I did not want the kids to make fun of me.
Someone tore off the handle and made me mad
The ruined briefcase made my Mother sad.
Kids still made fun of me anyway
As I walked to school day after day
I was young and weak then
Teenage life was hard without a friend.
Those days were difficult and long
But they built character and made me strong.
A life’s lesson was taught
By the pink briefcase my Mother bought.
I learned to walk in my own shoes
And live my life as I’d choose.
Many years of time have passed.
Is that our grandson’s girlfriend? My husband asked
I can’t tell, they all look and dress the same
The only thing different about them is their name
I can’t distinguish one girl from another.
Too bad she’d never been given a pink briefcase by her Mother!
I may walk until I’m fainting, I may write until I’m blinded,
I might drink until my back teeth are afloat,
But I can’t forget my ruin and the happy days behind it,
When I wore a pink carnation in my coat.
Oh, I thought that time could conquer, and I thought my heart would harden,
But it sends a sudden lump into my throat,
When I think of what I have been, and the cottage and the garden,
When I wore a pink carnation in my coat.
God forgive you, girl, and bless you! Let no line of mine distress you –
I am sorry for the bitter lines I wrote;
But remember, and think kindly, for we met and married blindly,
When I wore a pink carnation in my coat.
Fair one, you did on me bestow
Comparisons too sweet to ow;
And but I found them sent from you
I durst not think they could be true.
But 'tis your uncontrolled power
Goddess-like to produce a flower,
And by your breath, without more seed,
Make that a Pink which was a Weed.
Because I would be loth to miss
So sweet a Metamorphosis,
Upon what stalk soere I grow
Disdain not you sometimes to blow
And cherish by your Virgin eye
What in your frown would droop and die:
So shall my thankful leaf repay
Perfumed wishes every day:
And o're your fortune breathe a spell
Which may his obligation tell,
Who though he nought but air can give
Must ever your (Sweet) creature live.
The rain drizzles down,
Soft and sun-kissed
Falling lazily through a sacrosanct sunbeam
In a hazy opalescent mist,
A tarnished key, a pink velvet door
Unsullied and untouched by time.
There is no past, no present, no future.
There is only this moment,
This ever present, yet ever elusive now.
I step onto a wave of plush ivory carpet
Cresting and ebbing under my feet.
Alive with sunsets, moonbeams,
Stardust and dreams.
Over in the corner,
A piano whispers,
A ghostly movement catches my eye.
Suddenly,
The pungent scent of Tabu perfume;
The scent of a woman;
The scent of my mother.
The aroma and texture of childhood days;
The smiles and tears,
Played on piano strings,
Wrapped in angel wings,
Still live and breathe
In the eternal now.
The pink velvet door;
The pink velvet room;
This is what dreams may come.
Copyright 2010 New Westminster, BC
A dainty little girl skipped across the park
Dressed in pink from ribbons to shoes
Her Mother followed close behind
Not many people cast a glance at them
All were busy with their own wards
There was however a man in a wheelchair
Who seemed completely fascinated with her
His eyes were focussed on her intently
His attendant did not appear to notice
That a sense of calm had descended on him
There was even a hint of a smile on his troubled face
'Alisha' – he finally shouted to everyone’s surprise
For he had not uttered a word in years
Now he was calling his young daughter long dead
In a fatal accident along with her mother and brother
He, the father managed to survive or just about
For he was crippled and he had lost his speech
But the little girl in pink seemed to have changed that
She reminded him of his very own child and the fact
That she turned around and gave him a big angelic smile
Only convinced him further that there was life after death
That Alisha was reborn in a new family, was a happy thought
Much later he did comment that – it was the power of pink
That changed his life on that fateful day in the park.
.
The sky is pink
The grass is blue
Up is down
And so are you
To run is walk
When left is right
Hop is fly
And black is white
East is west
The sun is green
The walls above
The floor between
The rain goes up
The dirt comes down
Glad is sad
And smile is frown
To hear is speak
To see is smell
Down are clouds
And up are wells
When you are me
And I am you
Nobody knows
Just what to do
This peach is pink with such a pink
As suits the peach divinely;
The cunning colour rarely spread
Fades to the yellow finely;
But where to spy the truest pink
Is in my Love's soft cheek, I think.
The snowdrop, child of windy March,
Doth glory in her whiteness;
Her golden neighbours, crocuses,
Unenvious praise her brightness!
But I do know where, out of sight,
My sweetheart keeps a warmer white.
Pink Sands Beach
the lady's pink swimming suit
painted orange
One of the Bahamas' best-kept secrets is Harbour Island, a three-mile-long, half-mile-wide speck off the coast of Eleuthera. With 18th-century clapboard houses edged with picket fences, this tiny island looks as if someone shrank Nantucket and plopped it down in the tropics. Cars are forbidden and are replaced by golf carts. Aptly named Pink Sands Beach runs the length of the island, speckled with the perfect blush of flamingo pink. Kids can horseback ride along the shores or don a mask and snorkel to go eyeball-to-eyeball with the tropical fish.
refreshing dawn mist, crisp air
and sunshine tiptoe through tender lips,
shower their warmth over a secluded valley
where a lady rolling in  pink dances
then rushes to a a meaningful rendevouz
with the benecfactor of passions
dawn mist, crisp air, sunshine and
mountain loam rolled up in tender
brown and now unveiled through
spring water, they are the simple joy
that raises  the morning sun up my sky
i dont need that many readers,
just a few who care to weigh every word
to savour its intrinsic value
they too are my tea that elevates
the morning sun up my sky
(inspired after a visit to the premier highlands destination in Malaysia the Cameron Highlands, a place famous for its Boh Tea)
the sun up my sky
There was an old saying a long time ago
When your life was at a place
That was absolutely perfect
No unhappiness could you trace
Perhaps you had fallen madly in love
For the very first time
Your search was now over
No one else would you find
But you were on a pink cloud
Be cautious you were told
This was uncertain happiness
The kind you never will hold
And then, guess what happened
My poor unsuspecting friend
It was like a swift river
That flowed ‘round the bend
Your pink cloud grew very thin
Your ears were ringing so loud
And like a bubble that burst
You fell off your pink cloud!
Just past dawn, the sun stands
with its heavy red head
in a black stanchion of trees,
waiting for someone to come
with his bucket
for the foamy white light,
and then a long day in the pasture.
I too spend my days grazing,
feasting on every green moment
till darkness calls,
and with the others
I walk away into the night,
swinging the little tin bell
of my name.
Beautiful silvery Tay,
With your landscapes, so lovely and gay,
Along each side of your waters, to Perth all the way;
No other river in the world has got scenery more fine,
Only I am told the beautiful Rhine,
Near to Wormit Bay, it seems very fine,
Where the Railway Bridge is towering above its waters sublime,
And the beautiful ship Mars,
With her Juvenile Tare,
Both lively and gay,
Does carelessly lie By night and by day,
In the beautiful Bay
Of the silvery Tay.
Beautiful, beautiful silvery Tay,
Thy scenery is enchanting on a fine summer day,
Near by Balnerino it is beautiful to behold,
When the trees are in full bloom and the cornfields seems like gold -
And nature's face seems gay,
And the lambkins they do play,
And the humming bee is on the wing,
It is enough to make one sing,
While they carelessly do stray,
Along the beautiful banks of the silvery Tay,
Beautiful silvery Tay,
Rolling smoothly on your way,
Near by Newport, as clear as the day,
Thy scenery around is charming I'll be bound...
And would make the heart of any one feel light and gay on a fine summer day,
To view the beautiful scenery along the banks of the silvery Tay.
The deck of an ancient ship.  At the right of the stage is the mast, with a large square sail hiding a great deal of the sky and sea on that side.  The tiller is at the left of the stage; it is a long oar coming through an opening in the bulwark.  The deck rises in a series of steps hehind the tiller, and the stern of the ship curves overhead.  When the play opens there are four persons upon the deck.  Aibric stands by the tiller.  Forgael sleeps upon the raised portion of the deck towards the front of the stage.  Two Sailors are standing near to the mast, on which a harp is hanging.
First Sailor. Has he not led us into these waste seas
For long enough?
Second Sailor. Aye, long and long enough.
First Sailor. We have not come upon a shore or ship
These dozen weeks.
Sccond Sailor. And I had thought to make
A good round Sum upon this cruise, and turn --
For I am getting on in life -- to something
That has less ups and downs than robbery.
First Sailor. I am so tired of being bachelor
I could give all my heart to that Red Moll
That had but the one eye.
Second Sailor. Can no bewitchment
Transform these rascal billows into women
That I may drown myself?
First Sailor. Better steer home,
Whether he will or no; and better still
To take him while he sleeps and carry him
And drop him from the gunnel.
Second Sailor. I dare not do it.
Were't not that there is magic in his harp,
I would be of your mind; but when he plays it
Strange creatures flutter up before one's eyes,
Or cry about one's ears.
First Sailor. Nothing to fear.
Second Sailor. Do you remember when we sank that
galley
At the full moon?
First Sailor. He played all through the night.
Second Sailor. Until the moon had set; and when I looked
Where the dead drifted, I could see a bird
Like a grey gull upon the breast of each.
While I was looking they rose hurriedly,
And after circling with strange cries awhile
Flew westward; and many a time since then
I've heard a rustling overhead in the wind.
First Sailor. I saw them on that night as well as you.
But when I had eaten and drunk myself asleep
My courage came again.
Second Sailor. But that's not all.
The other night, while he was playing it,
A beautiful young man and girl came up
In a white breaking wave; they had the look
Of those that are alive for ever and ever.
First Sailor. I saw them, too, one night.  Forgael was
playing,
And they were listening ther& beyond the sail.
He could not see them, but I held out my hands
To grasp the woman.
Second Sailor. You have dared to touch her?
First Sailor. O she was but a shadow, and slipped from
me.
Second Sailor. But were you not afraid?
First Sailor. Why should I fear?
Second Sailor. 'Twas Aengus and Edain, the wandering
lovers,
To whom all lovers pray.
First Sailor. But what of that?
A shadow does not carry sword or spear.
Second Sailor. My mother told me that there is not one
Of the Ever-living half so dangerous
As that wild Aengus.  Long before her day
He carried Edain off from a king's house,
And hid her among fruits of jewel-stone
And in a tower of glass, and from that day
Has hated every man that's not in love,
And has been dangerous to him.
First Sailor. I have heard
He does not hate seafarers as he hates
Peaceable men that shut the wind away,
And keep to the one weary marriage-bed.
Second Sailor. I think that he has Forgael in his net,
And drags him through the sea,
First Sailor Well, net or none,
I'd drown him while we have the chance to do it.
Second Sailor. It's certain I'd sleep easier o' nights
If he were dead; but who will be our captain,
Judge of the stars, and find a course for us?
First Sailor. I've thought of that.  We must have Aibric
with us,
For he can judge the stars as well as Forgael.
[Going towards Aibric.]
Become our captain, Aibric.  I am resolved
To make an end of Forgael while he sleeps.
There's not a man but will be glad of it
When it is over, nor one to grumble at us.
Aibric. You have taken pay and made your bargain for it.
First Sailor. What good is there in this hard way of
living,
Unless we drain more flagons in a year
And kiss more lips than lasting peaceable men
In their long lives? Will you be of our troop
And take the captain's share of everything
And bring us into populous seas again?
Aibric. Be of your troop! Aibric be one of you
And Forgael in the other scale! kill Forgael,
And he my master from my childhood up!
If you will draw that sword out of its scabbard
I'll give my answer.
First Sailor. You have awakened him.
[To Second Sailor.]
We'd better go, for we have lost this chance.
[They go out.]
Forgael. Have the birds passed us? I could hear your
voice,
But there were others.
Aibric. I have seen nothing pass.
Forgael. You're certain of it? I never wake from sleep
But that I am afraid they may have passed,
For they're my only pilots.  If I lost them
Straying too far into the north or south,
I'd never come upon the happiness
That has been promised me.  I have not seen them
These many days; and yet there must be many
Dying at every moment in the world,
And flying towards their peace.
Aibric. Put by these thoughts,
And listen to me for a while.  The sailors
Are plotting for your death.
Forgael. Have I not given
More riches than they ever hoped to find?
And now they will not follow, while I seek
The only riches that have hit my fancy.
Aibric. What riches can you find in this waste sea
Where no ship sails, where nothing that's alive
Has ever come but those man-headed birds,
Knowing it for the world's end?
Forgael. Where the world ends
The mind is made unchanging, for it finds
Miracle, ecstasy, the impossible hope,
The flagstone under all, the fire of fires,
The roots of the world.
Aibric. Shadows before now
Have driven travellers mad for their own sport.
Forgael. Do you, too, doubt me? Have you joined their
plot?
Aibric. No, no, do not say that.  You know right well
That I will never lift a hand against you.
Forgael. Why should you be more faithful than the rest,
Being as doubtful?
Aibric. I have called you master
Too many years to lift a hand against you.
Forgael. Maybe it is but natural to doubt me.
You've never known, I'd lay a wager on it,
A melancholy that a cup of wine,
A lucky battle, or a woman's kiss
Could not amend.
Aibric. I have good spirits enough.
Forgael. If you will give me all your mind awhile --
All, all, the very bottom of the bowl --
I'll show you that I am made differently,
That nothing can amend it but these waters,
Where I am rid of life -- the events of the world --
What do you call it? -- that old promise-breaker,
The cozening fortune-teller that comes whispering,
'You will have all you have wished for when you have
earned
Land for your children or money in a pot.-
And when we have it we are no happier,
Because of that old draught under the door,
Or creaky shoes.  And at the end of all
How are we better off than Seaghan the fool,
That never did a hand's turn? Aibric! Aibric!
We have fallen in the dreams the Ever-living
Breathe on the burnished mirror of the world
And then smooth out with ivory hands and sigh,
And find their laughter sweeter to the taste
For that brief sighing.
Aibric. If you had loved some woman --
Forgael. You say that also? You have heard the voices,
For that is what they say -- all, all the shadows --
Aengus and Edain, those passionate wanderers,
And all the others; but it must be love
As they have known it.  Now the secret's out;
For it is love that I am seeking for,
But of a beautiful, unheard-of kind
That is not in the world.
Aibric. And yet the world
Has beautiful women to please every man.
Forgael. But he that gets their love after the fashion
'Loves in brief longing and deceiving hope
And bodily tenderness, and finds that even
The bed of love, that in the imagination
Had seemed to be the giver of all peace,
Is no more than a wine-cup in the tasting,
And as soon finished.
Aibric. All that ever loved
Have loved that way -- there is no other way.
Forgael. Yet never have two lovers kissed but they
believed there was some other near at hand,
And almost wept because they could not find it.
Aibric. When they have twenty years; in middle life
They take a kiss for what a kiss is worth,
And let the dream go by.
Forgael. It's not a dream,
But the reality that makes our passion
As a lamp shadow -- no -- no lamp, the sun.
What the world's million lips are thirsting for
Must be substantial somewhere.
Aibric. I have heard the Druids
Mutter such things as they awake from trance.
It may be that the Ever-living know it --
No mortal can.
Forgael. Yes; if they give us help.
Aibric. They are besotting you as they besot
The crazy herdsman that will tell his fellows
That he has been all night upon the hills,
Riding to hurley, or in the battle-host
With the Ever-living.
Forgael. What if he speak the truth,
And for a dozen hours have been a part
Of that more powerful life?
Aibric, His wife knows better.
Has she not seen him lying like a log,
Or fumbling in a dream about the house?
And if she hear him mutter of wild riders,
She knows that it was but the cart-horse coughing
That set him to the fancy.
Forgael. All would be well
Could we but give us wholly to the dreams,
And get into their world that to the sense
Is shadow, and not linger wretchedly
Among substantial things; for it is dreams
That lift us to the flowing, changing world
That the heart longs for.  What is love itself,
Even though it be the lightest of light love,
But dreams that hurry from beyond the world
To make low laughter more than meat and drink,
Though it but set us sighing? Fellow-wanderer,
Could we but mix ourselves into a dream,
Not in its image on the mirror!
Aibric. While
We're in the body that's impossible.
Forgael. And yet I cannot think they're leading me
To death; for they that promised to me love
As those that can outlive the moon have known it, '
Had the world's total life gathered up, it seemed,
Into their shining limbs -- I've had great teachers.
Aengus and Edain ran up out of the wave --
You'd never doubt that it was life they promised
Had you looked on them face to face as I did,
With so red lips, and running on such feet,
And having such wide-open, shining eyes.
Aibric. It's certain they are leading you to death.
None but the dead, or those that never lived,
Can know that ecstasy.  Forgael! Forgael!
They have made you follow the man-headed birds,
And you have told me that their journey lies
Towards the country of the dead.
Forgael. What matter
If I am going to my death? -- for there,
Or somewhere, I shall find the love they have
promised.
That much is certain.  I shall find a woman.
One of the Ever-living, as I think --
One of the Laughing People -- and she and I
Shall light upon a place in the world's core,
Where passion grows to be a changeless thing,
Like charmed apples made of chrysoprase,
Or chrysoberyl, or beryl, or chrysclite;
And there, in juggleries of sight and sense,
Become one movement, energy, delight,
Until the overburthened moon is dead.
[A number of Sailors entcr hurriedly.]
First Sailor. Look there! there in the mist! a ship of spice!
And we are almost on her!
Second Sailor. We had not known
But for the ambergris and sandalwood.
First Sailor. NO; but opoponax and cinnamon.
Forgael [taking the tiller from Aibric]. The Ever-living have
kept my bargain for me,
And paid you on the nail.
Aibric. Take up that rope
To make her fast while we are plundering her.
First Sailor. There is a king and queen upon her deck,
And where there is one woman there'll be others.
Aibric. Speak lower, or they'll hear.
First Sailor. They cannot hear;
They are too busy with each other.  Look!
He has stooped down and kissed her on the lips.
Second Sailor. When she finds out we have better men
aboard
She may not be too sorry in the end.
First Sailor. She will be like a wild cat; for these queens
Care more about the kegs of silver and gold
And the high fame that come to them in marriage,
Than a strong body and a ready hand.
Second Sailor. There's nobody is natural but a robber,
And that is why the world totters about
Upon its bandy legs.
Aibric. Run at them now,
And overpower the crew while yet asleep!
[The Sailors go out.]
<1[Voices and thc clashing of swords are heard from the
other ship, which cannot be seen because of the sail.]
A Voice. Armed men have come upon us! O I am slain!
Another Voice. Wake all below!
Another Voice. Why have you broken our sleep?
First Voice. Armed men have come upon us! O I am
slain!
Forgael [who has remained at the tiller]. There! there they
come! Gull, gannet, or diver,
But with a man's head, or a fair woman's,
They hover over the masthead awhile
To wait their Fiends; but when their friends have
come
They'll fly upon that secret way of theirs.
One -- and one -- a couple -- five together;
And I will hear them talking in a minute.
Yes, voices! but I do not catch the words.
Now I can hear.  There's one of them that says,
'How light we are, now we are changed to birds!'
Another answers, 'Maybe we shall find
Our heart's desire now that we are so light.'
And then one asks another how he died,
And says, 'A sword-blade pierced me in my sleep.-
And now they all wheel suddenly and fly
To the other side, and higher in the air.
And now a laggard with a woman's head
dGmes crying, 'I have run upon the sword.
I have fled to my beloved in the air,
In the waste of the high air, that we may wander
Among the windy meadows of the dawn.'
But why are they still waiting? why are they
Circling and circling over the masthead?
What power that is more mighty than desire
To hurry to their hidden happiness
Withholds them now? Have the Ever-living Ones
A meaning in that circling overhead?
But what's the meaning? [He cries out.] Why do you
linger there?
Why linger? Run to your desire,
Are you not happy winged bodies now?
[His voice sinks again.]
Being too busy in the air and the high air,
They cannot hear my voice; but what's the meaning?
<1[The Sailors have returned.  Dectora is with them.]
Forgael [turning and seeing her].>1 Why are you standing
with your eyes upon me?
You are not the world's core.  O no, no, no!
That cannot be the meaning of the birds.
You are not its core.  My teeth are in the world,
But have not bitten yet.
Dectora. I am a queen,
And ask for satisfaction upon these
Who have slain my husband and laid hands upon me.
[Breaking loose from the Sailors who are holding her.]
Let go my hands!
Forgael. Why do you cast a shadow?
Where do you come from? Who brought you to this
place?
They would not send me one that casts a shadow.
Dectora. Would that the storm that overthrew my ships,
And drowned the treasures of nine conquered nations,
And blew me hither to my lasting sorrow,
Had drowned me also.  But, being yet alive,
I ask a fitting punishment for all
That raised their hands against him.
Forgael. There are some
That weigh and measure all in these waste seas --
They that have all the wisdom that's in life,
And all that prophesying images
Made of dim gold rave out in secret tombs;
They have it that the plans of kings and queens
But laughter and tears -- laughter, laughter, and tears;
That every man should carry his own soul
Upon his shoulders.
Dectora. You've nothing but wild words,
And I would know if you will give me vengeance.
Forgael. When she finds out I will not let her go --
When she knows that.
Dectora. What is it that you are muttering --
That you'll not let me go? I am a queen.
Forgael. Although you are more beautiful than any,
I almost long that it were possible;
But if I were to put you on that ship,
With sailors that were sworn to do your will,
And you had spread a sail for home, a wind
Would rise of a sudden, or a wave so huge
It had washed among the stars and put them out,
And beat the bulwark of your ship on mine,
Until you stood before me on the deck --
As now.
Dectora. Does wandering in these desolate seas
And listening to the cry of wind and wave
Bring madness?
Forgael. Queen, I am not mad.
Dectora. Yet say
That unimaginable storms of wind and wave
Would rise against me.
Forgael. No, I am not mad --
If it be not that hearing messages
From lasting watchers, that outlive the moon,
At the most quiet midnight is to be stricken.
Dectora. And did those watchers bid you take me
captive?
Forgael. Both you and I are taken in the net.
It was their hands that plucked the winds awake
And blew you hither; and their mouths have
promised
I shall have love in their immortal fashion;
And for this end they gave me my old harp
That is more mighty than the sun and moon,
Or than the shivering casting-net of the stars,
That none might take you from me.
<1Dectora [first trembling back from the mast where the harp is,
and then laughing].>1 For a moment
Your raving of a message and a harp
More mighty than the stars half troubled me,
But all that's raving.  Who is there can compel
The daughter and the granddaughter of kings
To be his bedfellow?
Forgael. Until your lips
Have called me their beloved, I'll not kiss them.
Dectora. My husband and miy king died at my feet,
And yet you talk of love.
Forgael. The movement of time
Is shaken in these seas, and what one does
One moment has no might upon the moment
That follows after.
Dectora. I understand you now.
You have a Druid craft of wicked sound
Wrung from the cold women of the sea --
A magic that can call a demon up,
Until my body give you kiss for kiss.
Forgael. Your soul shall give the kiss.
Dectora. I am not afraid,
While there's a rope to run into a noose
Or wave to drown.  But I have done with words,
And I would have you look into my face
And know that it is fearless.
Forgael. Do what you will,
For neither I nor you can break a mesh
Of the great golden net that is about us.
Dectora. There's nothing in the world that's worth a
fear.
<1[She passes Forgael and stands for a moment looking into
his face.]>1
I have good reason for that thought.
[She runs suddenly on to the raiscd part of the poop.]
And now
I can put fear away as a queen should.
<1[She mounts on to the hulwark and turns towards
Forgael.]>1
Fool, fool! Although you have looked into my face
You do not see my purpose.  I shall have gone
Before a hand can touch me.
Forgael [folding his arms]. My hands are still;
The Ever-living hold us.  Do what you will,
You cannot leap out of the golden net.
First Sailor. No need to drown, for, if you will pardon
us
And measure out a course and bring us home,
We'll put this man to death.
Dectora. I promise it.
First Sailor. There is none to take his side.
Aibric. I am on his side,
I'll strike a blow for him to give him time
To cast his dreams away.
<1[Aibric goes in front of Forgael with drawn sword.  For-
gael takes the harp.]>1
First Sailor. No other'll do it.
<1[The Sailors throw Aibric on one side.  He falls and lies
upon the deck.  They lift their swords to strike Forgael,>1
<1who is about to play the harp.  The stage begins to
darken.  The Sailors hesitate in fear.]
Second Sailor.>1 He has put a sudden darkness over the
moon.
Dectora. Nine swords with handles of rhinoceros horn
To him that strikes him first!
First Sailor. I will strike him first.
<1[He goes close up to Forgael with his sword lifted.]
[Shrinking back.] He has caught the crescent moon out
of the sky,
And carries it between us.
Second Sailor. Holy fire
To burn us to the marrow if we strike.
Dectora. I'll give a golden galley full of fruit,
That has the heady flavour of new wine,
To him that wounds him to the death.
First Sailor. I'll do it.
For all his spells will vanish when he dies,
Having their life in him.
Second Sailor. Though it be the moon
That he is holding up between us there,
I will strike at him.
The Others. And I! And I! And I!
[Forgael plays the harp.]
First Sailor [falling into a dream suddenly. But you were
saying there is somebody
Upon that other ship we are to wake.
You did not know what brought him to his end,
But it was sudden.
Second Sailor. You are in the right;
I had forgotten that we must go wake him.
Dectora. He has flung a Druid spell upon the air,
And set you dreaming.
Second Sailor. How can we have a wake
When we have neither brown nor yellow ale?
First Sailor. I saw a flagon of brown ale aboard her.
Third Sailor. How can we raise the keen that do not
know
What name to call him by?
First Sailor. Come to his ship.
His name will come into our thoughts in a minute.
I know that he died a thousand years ago,
And has not yet been waked.
Second Sailor [beginning to keen]. Ohone! O! O! O!
The yew-bough has been broken into two,
And all the birds are scattered.
All the Sailors. O! O! O! O!
[They go out keening.]
Dectora. Protect me now, gods that my people swear by.
<1[Aibric has risen from the deck where he had fallen.  He
has begun looking for his sword as if in a dream.]>1
Aibric. Where is my sword that fell out of my hand
When I first heard the news? Ah, there it is!
<1[He goes dreamily towards the sword, but Dectora runs at
it and takes it up before he can reach it.]>1
Aibric [sleepily]. Queen, give it me.
Dectora. No, I have need of it.
Aibric. Why do you need a sword? But you may keep it.
Now that he's dead I have no need of it,
For everything is gone.
A Sailor [calling from the other ship]. Come hither, Aibric,
And tell me who it is that we are waking.
Aibric [half to Dectora, half to himself]. What name had
that dead king? Arthur of Britain?
No, no -- not Arthur.  I remember now.
It was golden-armed Iollan, and he died
Broken-hearted, having lost his queen
Through wicked spells.  That is not all the tale,
For he was killed.  O! O! O! O! O! O!
For golden-armed Iollan has been killed.
<1[He goes out.]
[While he has been speaking, and through part of what
follows, one hears the wailing of the Sailors from the
other ship.  Dectora stands with the sword lifted in
front of Forgael.]>1
Dectora. I will end all your magic on the instant.
<1[Her voice hecomes dreamy, and she lowers the sword
slowly, and finally lets it fall.  She spreads out her hair.
She takes off her crown and lays it upon the deck.]>1
This sword is to lie beside him in the grave.
It was in all his battles.  I will spread my hair,
And wring my hands, and wail him bitterly,
For I have heard that he was proud and laughing,
Blue-eyed, and a quick runner on bare feet,
And that he died a thousand years ago.
O; O! O! O!
[Forgael changes the tune.]
But no, that is not it.
They killed him at my feet.  O! O! O! O!
For golden-armed Iollan that I loved-
But what is it that made me say I loved him?
It was that harper put it in my thoughts,
But it is true.  Why did they run upon him,
And beat the golden helmet with their swords?
Forgael. Do you not know me, lady? I am he
That you are weeping for.
Dectora. No, for he is dcad.
O! O! O! O! for golden-armed Iollan.
Forgael. It was so given out, but I will prove
That the grave-diggers in a dreamy frenzy
Have buried nothing but my golden arms.
Listen to that low-laughing string of the moon
And you will recollect my face and voice,
For you have listened to me playing it
These thousand years.
<1[He starts up, listening to the birds.  The harp slips from
his hands, and remains leaning against the bulwarks
behind him.]>1
What are the birds at there?
Why are they all a-flutter of a sudden?
What are you calling out above the mast?
If railing and reproach and mockery
Because I have awakened her to love
By magic strings, I'll make this answer to it:
Being driven on by voices and by dreams
That were clear messages from the Ever-living,
I have done right.  What could I but obey?
And yet you make a clamour of reproach.
Dcctora [laughing]. Why, it's a wonder out of reckoning
That I should keen him from the full of the moon
To the horn, and he be hale and hearty.
Forgael. How have I wronged her now that she is merry?
But no, no, no! your cry is not against me.
You know the counsels of the Ever-living,
And all that tossing of your wings is joy,
And all that murmuring's but a marriage-song;
But if it be reproach, I answer this:
There is not one among you that made love
by any other means.  You call it passion,
Consideration, generosity;
But it was all deceit, and flattery
To win a woman in her own despite,
For love is war, and there is hatred in it;
And if you say that she came willingly --
Dectora. Why do you turn away and hide your face,
That I would look upon for ever?
Forgael. My grief!
Dectora. Have I not loved you for a thousand years?
Forgael. I never have been golden-armed Iollan.
Vectora. I do not understand.  I know your face
Better than my own hands.
Forgael. I have deceived you
Out of all reckoning.
Tectora. Is it not tme
That you were born a thousand years ago,
In islands where the children of Aengus wind
In happy dances under a windy moon,
And that you'll bring me there?
Forgael. I have deceived you;
I have deceived you utterly.
Dectora. How can that be?
Is it that though your eyes are full of love
Some other woman has a claim on you,
And I've but half!
Forgael. O no!
Dectora. And if there is,
If there be half a hundred more, what matter?
I'll never give another thought to it;
No, no, nor half a thought; but do not speak.
Women are hard and proud and stubborn-hearted,
Their heads being turned with praise and flattery;
And that is why their lovers are afraid
To tell them a plain story.
Forgael. That's not the story;
But I have done so great a wrong against you,
There is no measure that it would not burst.
I will confess it all.
Dectora. What do I care,
Now that my body has begun to dream,
And you have grown to be a burning sod
In the imagination and intellect?
If something that's most fabulous were true --
If you had taken me by magic spells,
And killed a lover or husband at my feet --
I would not let you speak, for I would know
That it was yesterday and not to-day
I loved him; I would cover up my ears,
As I am doing now.  [A pause.] Why do you weep?
Forgael. I weep because I've nothing for your eyes
But desolate waters and a battered ship.
Dectora. O why do you not lift your eyes to mine?
Forgael. I weep -- I weep because bare night's above,
And not a roof of ivory and gold.
Dectora. I would grow jealous of the ivory roof,
And strike the golden pillars with my hands.
I would that there was nothing in the world
But my beloved -- that night and day had perished,
And all that is and all that is to be,
All that is not the meeting of our lips.
Forgael. You turn away.  Why do you turn away?
Am I to fear the waves, or is the moon
My enemy?
Dectora. I looked upon the moon,
Longing to knead and pull it into shape
That I might lay it on your head as a crown.
But now it is your thoughts that wander away,
For you are looking at the sea.  Do you not know
How great a wrong it is to let one's thought
Wander a moment when one is in love?
<1[He has moved away.  She follows him.  He is looking out
over the sea, shading his eyes.]>1
Why are you looking at the sea?
Forgael. Look there!
Dectora. What is there but a troop of ash-grey birds
That fly into the west?
Forgael. But listen, listen!
Dectora. What is there but the crying of the birds?
Forgael. If you'll but listen closely to that crying
You'll hear them calling out to one another
With human voices
Dectora. O, I can hear them now.
What are they? Unto what country do they fly?
Forgael. To unimaginable happiness.
They have been circling over our heads in the air,
But now that they have taken to the road
We have to follow, for they are our pilots;
And though they're but the colour of grey ash,
They're crying out, could you but hear their words,
'There is a country at the end of the world
Where no child's born but to outlive the moon.'
<1[The Sailors comc in with Aibric.  They are in great
excitement.]>1
First Sailor. The hold is full of treasure.
Second Sailor. Full to the hatches.
First Sailor. Treasure on treasure.
Third Sailor. Boxes of precious spice.
First Sailor. Ivory images with amethyst eyes.
Third Sailor. Dragons with eyes of ruby.
First Sailor. The whole ship
Flashes as if it were a net of herrings.
Third Sailor. Let's home; I'd give some rubies to a
woman.
Second Sailor. There's somebody I'd give the amethyst
eyes to.
Aibric [silencing thcm with agesture]. We would return to
our own country, Forgael,
For we have found a treasure that's so great
Imagination cannot reckon it.
And having lit upon this woman there,
What more have you to look for on the seas?
Forgael. I cannot -- I am going on to the end.
As for this woman, I think she is coming with me.
Aibric. The Ever-living have made you mad; but no,
It was this woman in her woman's vengeance
That drove you to it, and I fool enough
To fancy that she'd bring you home again.
'Twas you that egged him to it, for you know
That he is being driven to his death.
Dectora. That is not true, for he has promised me
An unimaginable happiness.
Aibric. And if that happiness be more than dreams,
More than the froth, the feather, the dust-whirl,
The crazy nothing that I think it is,
It shall be in the country of the dead,
If there be such a country.
Dectora. No, not there,
But in some island where the life of the world
Leaps upward, as if all the streams o' the world
Had run into one fountain.
Aibric. Speak to him.
He knows that he is taking you to death;
Speak -- he will not deny it.
Dectora. Is that true?
Forgael. I do not know for certain, but I know.
That I have the best of pilots.
Aibric. Shadows, illusions,
That the Shape-changers, the Ever-laughing Ones,
The Immortal Mockers have cast into his mind,
Or called before his eyes.
Dectora. O carry me
To some sure country, some familia'r place.
Have we not everything that life can give
In having one another?
Forgael. How could I rest
If I refused the messengers and pilots
With all those sights and all that crying out?
Dectora. But I will cover up your eyes and ear?,
That you may never hear the cry of the birds,
Or look upon them.
Forgael. Were they but lowlier
I'd do your will, but they are too high -- too high.
Dectora. Being too high, their heady prophecies
But harry us with hopes that come to nothing,
Because we are not proud, imperishable,
Alone and winged.
Forgael. Our love shall be like theirs
When we have put their changeless image on.
Dectora. I am a woman, I die at every breath.
Aibric. Let the birds scatter, for the tree is broken,
And there's no help in words.  [To the Sailors.]
To the other ship,
And I will follow you and cut the rope
When I have said farewell to this man here,
For neither I nor any living man
Will look upon his face again.
[The Sailors go out.]
Forgael [to Dectora], Go with him,
For he will shelter you and bring you home.
Aibric [taking Forgael's hand]. I'll do it for his sake.
Dectora. No.  Take this sword
And cut the rope, for I go on with Forgael.
Aibric [half falling into the keen]. The yew-bough has been
broken into two,
And all the birds are scattered -- O! O! O!
Farewell! farewell! [He goes out.]
Dectora. The sword is in the rope --
The rope's in two -- it falls into the sea,
It whirls into the foam.  O ancient worm,
Dragon that loved the world and held us to it,
You are broken, you are broken.  The world drifts
away,
And I am left alone with my beloved,
Who cannot put me from his sight for ever.
We are alone for ever, and I laugh,
Forgael, because you cannot put me from you.
The mist has covered the heavens, and you and I
Shall be alone for ever.  We two -- this crown --
I half remember.  It has been in my dreams.
Bend lower, O king, that I may crown you with it.
O flower of the branch, 0 bird among the leaves,
O silver fish that my two hands have taken
Out of the running stream, O morning star
Trembling in the blue heavens like a white fawn
Upon the misty border of the wood,
Bend lower, that I may cover you with my hair,
For we will gaze upon this world no longer.
Forgael [gathering Dectora's hair about him]. Beloved, hav-
ing dragged the net about us,
And knitted mesh to mesh, we grow immortal;
And that old harp awakens of itself
To cry aloud to the grey birds, and dreams,
That have had dreams for father, live in us.
Through airy roads he wings his instant flight
To purer regions of celestial light;
Enlarg'd he sees unnumber'd systems roll,
Beneath him sees the universal whole,
Planets on planets run their destin'd round,
And circling wonders fill the vast profound.
Th' ethereal now, and now th' empyreal skies
With growing splendors strike his wond'ring eyes:
The angels view him with delight unknown,
Press his soft hand, and seat him on his throne;
Then smilling thus: 'To this divine abode,
'The seat of saints, of seraphs, and of God,
'Thrice welcome thou.'  The raptur'd babe replies,
'Thanks to my God, who snatch'd me to the skies,
'E'er vice triumphant had possess'd my heart,
'E'er yet the tempter had beguil d my heart,
'E'er yet on sin's base actions I was bent,
'E'er yet I knew temptation's dire intent;
'E'er yet the lash for horrid crimes I felt,
'E'er vanity had led my way to guilt,
'But, soon arriv'd at my celestial goal,
'Full glories rush on my expanding soul.'
Joyful he spoke: exulting cherubs round
Clapt their glad wings, the heav'nly vaults resound.
Say, parents, why this unavailing moan?
Why heave your pensive bosoms with the groan?
To Charles, the happy subject of my song,
A brighter world, and nobler strains belong.
Say would you tear him from the realms above
By thoughtless wishes, and prepost'rous love?
Doth his felicity increase your pain?
Or could you welcome to this world again
The heir of bliss? with a superior air
Methinks he answers with a smile severe,
'Thrones and dominions cannot tempt me there.'
But still you cry, 'Can we the sigh borbear,
'And still and still must we not pour the tear?
'Our only hope, more dear than vital breath,
'Twelve moons revolv'd, becomes the prey of death;
'Delightful infant, nightly visions give
'Thee to our arms, and we with joy receive,
'We fain would clasp the Phantom to our breast,
'The Phantom flies, and leaves the soul unblest.'
To yon bright regions let your faith ascend,
Prepare to join your dearest infant friend
In pleasures without measure, without end.
I see you drinking at a fountain with tiny
blue hands, no, your hands are not tiny
they are small, and the fountain is in France
where you wrote me that last letter and
I answered and never heard from you again.
you used to write insane poems about
ANGELS AND GOD, all in upper case, and you
knew famous artists and most of them
were your lovers, and I wrote back, it' all right,
go ahead, enter their lives, I' not jealous
because we' never met. we got close once in
New Orleans, one half block, but never met, never
touched. so you went with the famous and wrote
about the famous, and, of course, what you found out
is that the famous are worried about
their fame -  not the beautiful young girl in bed
with them, who gives them that, and then awakens
in the morning to write upper case poems about
ANGELS AND GOD. we know God is dead, they' told
us, but listening to you I wasn' sure. maybe
it was the upper case. you were one of the
best female poets and I told the publishers,
editors, " her, print her, she' mad but she'
magic. there' no lie in her fire." I loved you
like a man loves a woman he never touches, only
writes to, keeps little photographs of. I would have
loved you more if I had sat in a small room rolling a
cigarette and listened to you piss in the bathroom,
but that didn' happen. your letters got sadder.
your lovers betrayed you. kid, I wrote back, all
lovers betray. it didn' help. you said
you had a crying bench and it was by a bridge and
the bridge was over a river and you sat on the crying
bench every night and wept for the lovers who had
hurt and forgotten you. I wrote back but never
heard again. a friend wrote me of your suicide
3 or 4 months after it happened. if I had met you
I would probably have been unfair to you or you
to me. it was best like this.
Waiting on Death Row
People coming in overalls
Taking me to the gas chamber
Scuffling of feet
They took him down the hallway
Feeling everyone's heartbeat
The central control of the soul
Batons and retro-tons
Ingrown toenails
One time all around you
All round you, bump-bump
Save my air, save my air
My air, my air
Air, water, trees
Machines eating the night
Energy moving
Nuclear fires
Burning reactors on my gate
Fires of hell are burning
Come home
Can you see
Can you say
That you say
That you really love this place?
Lured by the wall, and drawn
To stare below the roof,
Where pigeons nest aloof
From prowling cats and men,
I count the sash and bar
Secured to granite stone,
And note the daylight gone,
Supper and silence near.
Close to the wall inside,
Immured, empty of love,
A man I have wondered of
Lies patient, vacant-eye.
A month and a day ago
He stopped his car and found
A girl on the darkening ground,
And killed her in the snow.
Beside his cell, I am told,
Hardy perennial bums
Complain till twilight comes
For hunger and for cold.
They hardly know of a day
That saw their hunger pass.
Bred to the dark, their flesh
Peacefully withers away.
The man who sits alone,
He is the one for wonder,
Who sways his fingers under
The cleanly shaven chin,
Who sees, in the shaving mirror
Pinned to the barren wall,
The uprooted ghost of all:
The simple, easy terror.
Caught between sky and earth,
Poor stupid animal,
Stripped naked to the wall,
He saw the blundered birth
Of daemons beyond sound.
Sick of the dark, he rose
For love, and now he goes
Back to the broken ground.
Now, as he grips the chain
And holds the wall, to bear
What no man ever bore,
He hears the bums complain;
But I mourn no soul but his,
Not even the bums who die,
Nor the homely girl whose cry
Crumbled his pleading kiss.
I try to write one poem each day,
I never know what I will say.
Be it love for natures blossoms,
Perhaps, a tale about some possums.
Will it touch a chord in your heart?
Encourage you to make a new start!
It may be sad it may be funny
But I will not sell it not for money.
I might write about the Zoo,
Or even something not quite true.
Fantasy is with me a big plus,
No big deal to make a fuss.
My poem may even make you smile,
Then my writing it will have been worthwhile.
It could be a poem that is quite sad.
Would that be so really bad?
Yes I try to write a poem every day,
Hoping it will help you on your way.
I was born in Mississippi;
I walked barefooted thru the mud.
Born black in Mississippi,
Walked barefooted thru the mud.
But, when I reached the age of twelve
I left that place for good.
My daddy chopped cotton
And he drank his liquor straight.
Said my daddy chopped cotton
And he drank his liquor straight.
When I left that Sunday morning
He was leaning on the barnyard gate.
Left my mama standing
With the sun shining in her eyes.
Left her standing in the yard
With the sun shining in her eyes.
And I headed North
As straight as the Wild Goose Flies,
I been to Detroit & Chicago
Been to New York city too.
I been to Detroit & Chicago
Been to New York city too.
Said I done strolled all those funky avenues
I'm still the same old black boy with the same old blues.
Going back to Mississippi
This time to stay for good
Going back to Mississippi
This time to stay for good-
Gonna be free in Mississippi
Or dead in the Mississippi mud.
When everything was fine
And the notion of sin had vanished
And the earth was ready
In universal peace
To consume and rejoice
Without creeds and utopias,
I, for unknown reasons,
Surrounded by the books
Of prophets and theologians,
Of philosophers, poets,
Searched for an answer,
Scowling, grimacing,
Waking up at night, muttering at dawn.
What oppressed me so much
Was a bit shameful.
Talking of it aloud
Would show neither tact nor prudence.
It might even seem an outrage
Against the health of mankind.
Alas, my memory
Does not want to leave me
And in it, live beings
Each with its own pain,
Each with its own dying,
Its own trepidation.
Why then innocence
On paradisal beaches,
An impeccable sky
Over the church of hygiene?
Is it because that
Was long ago?
To a saintly man
--So goes an Arab tale--
God said somewhat maliciously:
"Had I revealed to people
How great a sinner you are,
They could not praise you."
"And I," answered the pious one,
"Had I unveiled to them
How merciful you are,
They would not care for you."
To whom should I turn
With that affair so dark
Of pain and also guilt
In the structure of the world,
If either here below
Or over there on high
No power can abolish
The cause and the effect?
Don't think, don't remember
The death on the cross,
Though everyday He dies,
The only one, all-loving,
Who without any need
Consented and allowed
To exist all that is,
Including nails of torture.
Totally enigmatic.
Impossibly intricate.
Better to stop speech here.
This language is not for people.
Blessed be jubilation.
Vintages and harvests.
Even if not everyone
Is granted serenity.
I write a poem for you today,
to get a place in your heart for ever
A poem that could tell you my love for you
I write my poem with emotion and affection
for you to understand my deep thoughts for you
A poem to love and a poem to understand its soul
A poem to enjoy and a poem to understand its happiness
A poem to think and a poem to understand its way of life
A poem to learn and a poem to understand its content
A poem to sing and a poem to understand its melody
A poem to cry and a poem to understand its sorrow
There are poems I have written but this is specially for you
The poem could tell you how important you are for me
There are words comes out freely from my mind to write poem
but there are no words to find my love for you
Those words can not missed as I miss your love today
Let me have all those words put in to my heart and
say I love to write a love poem for you
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright ©2004 Ravi Sathasivam
Shall the great soul of Newton quit this earth,
To mingle with his stars; and every muse,
Astonish'd into silence, shun the weight
Of honours due to his illustrious name?
But what can man?--Even now the sons of light,
In strains high-warbled to seraphic lyre,
Hail his arrival on the coast of bliss.
Yet am not I deterr'd, though high the theme,
And sung to harps of angels, for with you,
Ethereal flames! ambitious, I aspire
In Nature's general symphony to join.
And what new wonders can ye show your guest!
Who, while on this dim spot, where mortals toil
Clouded in dust, from motion's simple laws,
Could trace the secret hand of Providence,
Wide-working through this universal frame.
Have ye not listen'd while he bound the suns
And planets to their spheres! th' unequal task
Of humankind till then. Oft had they roll'd
O'er erring man the year, and oft disgrac'd
The pride of schools, before their course was known
Full in its causes and effects to him,
All-piercing sage! who sat not down and dream'd
Romantic schemes, defended by the din
Of specious words, and tyranny of names;
But, bidding his amazing mind attend,
And with heroic patience years on years
Deep-searching, saw at last the system dawn,
And shine, of all his race, on him alone.
What were his raptures then! how pure! how strong!
And what the triumphs of old Greece and Rome,
By his diminish'd, but the pride of boys
In some small fray victorious! when instead
Of shatter'd parcels of this earth usurp'd
By violence unmanly, and sore deeds
Of cruelty and blood, Nature herself
Stood all subdu'd by him, and open laid
Her every latent glory to his view.
All intellectual eye, our solar-round
First gazing through, he by the blended power
Of gravitation and projection saw
The whole in silent harmony revolve.
From unassisted vision hid, the moons
To cheer remoter planets numerous pour'd,
By him in all their mingled tracts were seen.
He also fix'd the wandering Queen of Night,
Whether she wanes into a scanty orb,
Or, waxing broad, with her pale shadowy light,
In a soft deluge overflows the sky.
Her every motion clear-discerning, he
Adjusted to the mutual main, and taught
Why now the mighty mass of water swells
Resistless, heaving on the broken rocks,
And the full river turning; till again
The tide revertive, unattracted, leaves
A yellow waste of idle sands behind.
Then breaking hence, he took his ardent flight
Through the blue infinite; and every star,
Which the clear concave of a winter's night
Pours on the eye, or astronomic tube,
Far-stretching, snatches from the dark abyss,
Or such as farther in successive skies
To fancy shine alone, at his approach
Blaz'd into suns, the living centre each
Of an harmonious system: all combin'd,
And rul'd unerring by that single power,
Which draws the stone projected to the ground.
O unprofuse magnificence divine!
O wisdom truly perfect! thus to call
From a few causes such a scheme of things,
Effects so various, beautiful, and great,
An universe complete! and O belov'd
Of Heaven! whose well-purg'd penetrative eye,
The mystic veil transpiercing, inly scann'd
The rising, moving, wide-establish'd frame.
He, first of men, with awful wing pursu'd
The comet through the long elliptic curve,
As round innumerous worlds he wound his way,
Till, to the forehead of our evening sky
Return'd, the blazing wonder glares anew,
And o'er the trembling nations shakes dismay.
The heavens are all his own, from the wild rule
Of whirling vortices and circling spheres
To their first great simplicity restor'd.
The schools astonish'd stood; but found it vain
To keep at odds with demonstration strong,
And, unawaken'd, dream beneath the blaze
Of truth. At once their pleasing visions fled,
With the gay shadows of the morning mix'd,
When Newton rose, our philosophic sun!
Th' aërial flow of sound was known to him,
From whence it first in wavy circles breaks,
Till the touch'd organ takes the message in.
Nor could the darting beam of speed immense
Escape his swift pursuit and measuring eye.
Ev'n Light itself, which every thing displays,
Shone undiscover'd, till his brighter mind
Untwisted all the shining robe of day;
And, from the whitening undistinguish'd blaze,
Collecting every ray into his kind,
To the charm'd eye educ'd the gorgeous train
Of parent colours. First the flaming red
Sprung vivid forth; the tawny orange next;
And next delicious yellow; by whose side
Fell the kind beams of all-refreshing green.
Then the pure blue, that swells autumnal skies
Ethereal played; and then, of sadder hue,
Emerg'd the deepen'd indigo, as when
The heavy-skirted evening droops with frost;
While the last gleamings of refracted light
Died in the fainting violet away.
These, when the clouds distil the rosy shower,
Shine out distinct adown the wat'ry bow;
While o'er our heads the dewy vision bends
Delightful, melting on the fields beneath.
Myriads of mingling dyes from these result,
And myriads still remain--infinite source
Of beauty, ever flushing, ever new.
Did ever poet image aught so fair,
Dreaming in whisp'ring groves by the hoarse brook?
Or prophet, to whose rapture heaven descends?
Ev'n now the setting sun and shifting clouds,
Seen, Greenwich, from thy lovely heights, declare
How just, how beauteous the refractive law.
The noiseless tide of time, all bearing down
To vast eternity's unbounded sea,
Where the green islands of the happy shine,
He stemm'd alone; and, to the source (involv'd
Deep in primeval gloom) ascending, rais'd
His lights at equal distances, to guide
Historian wilder'd on his darksome way.
But who can number up his labours? who
His high discoveries sing? When but a few
Of the deep-studying race can stretch their minds
To what he knew--in fancy's lighter thought
How shall the muse then grasp the mighty theme?
What wonder thence that his devotion swell'd
Responsive to his knowledge? For could he,
Whose piercing mental eye diffusive saw
The finish'd university of things
In all its order, magnitude, and parts,
Forbear incessant to adore that Power
Who fills, sustains, and actuates the whole?
Say, ye who best can tell, ye happy few,
Who saw him in the softest lights of life,
All unwithheld, indulging to his friends
The vast unborrow'd treasures of his mind,
oh, speak the wondrous man! how mild, how calr
How greatly humble, how divinely good,
How firm establish'd on eternal truth;
Fervent in doing well, with every nerve
Still pressing on, forgetful of the past,
And panting for perfection; far above
Those little cares and visionary joys
That so perplex the fond impassion'd heart
Of ever-cheated, ever-trusting man.
This, Conduitt, from thy rural hours we hope;
As through the pleasing shade where nature pours
Her every sweet in studious ease you walk,
The social passions smiling at thy heart
That glows with all the recollected sage.
And you, ye hopeless gloomy-minded tribe,
You who, unconscious of those nobler flights
That reach impatient at immortal life,
Against the prime endearing privilege
Of being dare contend,--say, can a soul
Of such extensive, deep, tremendous powers,
Enlarging still, be but a finer breath
Of spirits dancing through their tubes awhile,
And then for ever lost in vacant air?
But hark! methinks I hear a warning voice,
Solemn as when some awful change is come,
Sound through the world--" 'Tis done!--the measure's full;
And I resign my charge."--Ye mouldering stones
That build the towering pyramid, the proud
Triumphal arch, the monument effac'd
By ruthless ruin, and whate'er supports
The worship'd name of hoar antiquity--
Down to the dust! What grandeur can ye boast
While Newton lifts his column to the skies,
Beyond the waste of time. Let no weak drop
Be shed for him. The virgin in her bloom
Cut off, the joyous youth, and darling child--
These are the tombs that claim the tender tear
And elegiac song. But Newton calls
For other notes of gratulation high,
That now he wanders through those endless worlds
He here so well descried, and wondering talks,
And hymns their Author with his glad compeers.
O Britain's boast! whether with angels thou
Sittest in dread discourse, or fellow-blest,
Who joy to see the honour of their kind;
Or whether, mounted on cherubic wing,
Thy swift career is with the whirling orbs,
Comparing things with things, in rapture lost,
And grateful adoration for that light
So plenteous ray'd into thy mind below
From Light Himself; oh, look with pity down
On humankind, a frail erroneous race!
Exalt the spirit of a downward world!
O'er thy dejected country chief preside,
And be her Genius call'd! her studies raise,
Correct her manners, and inspire her youth;
For, though deprav'd and sunk, she brought thee forth,
And glories in thy name! she points thee out
To all her sons, and bids them eye thy star:
While, in expectance of the second life,
When time shall be no more, thy sacred dust
Sleeps with her kings, and dignifies the scene.
That Providence which had so long the care
Of Cromwell's head, and numbred ev'ry hair,
Now in its self (the Glass where all appears)
Had seen the period of his golden Years:
And thenceforth onely did attend to trace,
What death might least so sair a Life deface.
The People, which what most they fear esteem,
Death when more horrid so more noble deem;
And blame the last Act, like Spectators vain,
Unless the Prince whom they applaud be slain.
Nor Fate indeed can well refuse that right
To those that liv'd in War, to dye in Fight.
But long his Valour none had left that could
Indanger him, or Clemency that would.
And he whom Nature all for Peace had made,
But angry Heaven unto War had sway'd,
And so less useful where he most desir'd,
For what he least affected was admir'd,
Deserved yet an End whose ev'ry part
Should speak the wondrous softness of his Heart.
To Love and Grief the fatal Writ was sign'd;
(Those nobler weaknesses of humane Mind,
From which those Powers that issu'd the Decree,
Although immortal, found they were not free.)
That they, to whom his Breast still open lyes,
In gentle Passions should his Death disguise:
And leave succeeding Ages cause to mourn,
As long as Grief shall weep, or Love shall burn.
Streight does a slow and languishing Disease
Eliza, Natures and his darling, seize.
Her when an infant, taken with her Charms,
He oft would flourish in his mighty Arms;
And, lest their force the tender burthen wrong,
Slacken the vigour of his Muscles strong;
Then to the Mothers brest her softly move,
Which while she drain'd of Milk she fill'd with Love:
But as with riper Years her Virtue grew,
And ev'ry minute adds a Lustre new;
When with meridian height her Beauty shin'd,
And thorough that sparkled her fairer Mind;
When She with Smiles serene and Words discreet
His hidden Soul at ev'ry turn could meet;
Then might y' ha' daily his Affection spy'd,
Doubling that knot which Destiny had ty'd:
While they by sence, not knowing, comprehend
How on each other both their Fates depend.
With her each day the pleasing Hours he shares,
And at her Aspect calms her growing Cares;
Or with a Grandsire's joy her Children sees
Hanging about her neck or at his knees.
Hold fast dear Infants, hold them both or none;
This will not stay when once the other's gone.
A silent fire now wasts those Limbs of Wax,
And him with his tortur'd Image racks.
So the Flowr with'ring which the Garden crown'd,
The sad Root pines in secret under ground.
Each Groan he doubled and each Sigh he sigh'd,
Repeated over to the restless Night.
No trembling String compos'd to numbers new,
Answers the touch in Notes more sad more true.
She lest He grieve hides what She can her pains,
And He to lessen hers his Sorrow feigns:
Yet both perceiv'd, yet both conceal'd their Skills,
And so diminishing increast their ills:
That whether by each others grief they fell,
Or on their own redoubled, none can tell.
And now Eliza's purple Locks were shorn,
Where she so long her Fathers fate had worn:
And frequent lightning to her Soul that flyes,
Devides the Air, and opens all the Skyes:
And now his Life, suspended by her breath,
Ran out impetuously to hasting Death.
Like polish'd Mirrours, so his steely Brest
Had ev'ry figure of her woes exprest;
And with the damp of her last Gasps obscur'd,
Had drawn such staines as were not to be cur'd.
Fate could not either reach with single stroke,
But the dear Image fled the Mirrour broke.
Who now shall tell us more of mournful Swans,
Of Halcyons kind, or bleeding Pelicans?
No downy breast did ere so gently beat,
Or fan with airy plumes so soft an heat.
For he no duty by his height excus'd,
Nor though a Prince to be a Man refus'd:
But rather then in his Eliza's pain
Not love, not grieve, would neither live nor reign.
And in himself so oft immortal try'd,
Yet in compassion of another dy'd.
So have I seen a Vine, whose lasting Age
Of many a Winter hath surviv'd the rage.
Under whose shady tent Men ev'ry year
At its rich bloods expence their Sorrows chear,
If some dear branch where it extends its life
Chance to be prun'd by an untimely knife,
The Parent-Tree unto the Grief succeeds,
And through the Wound its vital humour bleeds;
Trickling in watry drops, whose flowing shape
Weeps that it falls ere fix'd into a Grape.
So the dry Stock, no more that spreading Vine,
Frustrates the Autumn and the hopes of Wine.
A secret Cause does sure those Signs ordain
Fore boding Princes falls, and seldom vain.
Whether some Kinder Pow'rs, that wish us well,
What they above cannot prevent, foretell;
Or the great World do by consent presage,
As hollow Seas with future Tempests rage:
Or rather Heav'n, which us so long fore sees,
Their fun'rals celebrate while it decrees.
But never yet was any humane Fate
By nature solemniz'd with so much state.
He unconcern'd the dreadful passage crost;
But oh what pangs that Death did Nature cost!
First the great Thunder was shot off, and sent
The Signal from the starry Battlement.
The Winds receive it, and its force out-do,
As practising how they could thunder too:
Out of the Binders Hand the Sheaves they tore,
And thrash'd the Harvest in the airy floore;
Or of huge Trees, whose growth with his did rise,
The deep foundations open'd to the Skyes.
Then heavy Showres the winged Tempests dead,
And pour the Deluge ore the Chaos head.
The Race of warlike Horses at his Tomb
Offer themselves in many an Hecatomb;
With pensive head towards the ground they fall,
And helpless languish at the tainted Stall.
Numbers of Men decrease with pains unknown,
And hasten not to see his Death their own.
Such Tortures all the Elements unfix'd,
Troubled to part where so exactly mix'd.
And as through Air his wasting Spirits flow'd,
The Universe labour'd beneath their load.
Nature it seem'd with him would Nature vye;
He with Eliza, It with him would dye.
He without noise still travell'd to his End,
As silent Suns to meet the Night descend.
The Stars that for him fought had only pow'r
Left to determine now his fatal Hour,
Which, since they might not hinder, yet they cast
To chuse it worthy of his Glories past.
No part of time but bore his mark away
Of honour; all the Year was Cromwell's day
But this, of all the most auspicious found,
Twice had in open field him Victor crown'd
When up the armed Mountains of Dunbar
He march'd, and through deep Severn ending war.
What day should him eternize but the same
That had before immortaliz'd his Name?
That so who ere would at his Death have joy'd,
In their own Griefs might find themselves imploy'd;
But those that sadly his departure griev'd,
Yet joy'd remembring what he once atcheiv'd.
And the last minute his victorious Ghost
Gave chase to Ligny on the Belgick Coast.
Here ended all his mortal toyles: He lay'd
And slept in Peace under the Lawrel Shade.
O Cromwell, Heavens Favourite! To none
Have such high honours from above been shown:
For whom the Elements we Mourners see,
And Heav'n it self would the great Herald be;
Which with more Care set forth his Obsequies
Then those of Moses hid from humane Eyes;
As jealous only here lest all be less,
That we could to his Memory express.
Then let us to our course of Mourning keep:
Where Heaven leads, 'tis Piety to weep.
Stand back ye Seas, and shrunk beneath the vail
Of your Abysse, with cover'd Head bewail
Your Monarch: We demand not your supplies
To compass in our Isle; our Tears suffice;
Since him away the dismal Tempest rent,
Who once more joyn'd us to the Continent;
Who planted England on the Flandrick shoar,
And stretch'd our frontire to the Indian Ore;
Whose greater Truths obscure the Fables old,
Whether of British Saints or Worthy's told;
And in a valour less'ning Arthur's deeds,
For Holyness the Confessor exceeds.
He first put Armes into Religions hand,
And tim'rous Conscience unto Courage man'd:
The Souldier taught that inward Mail to wear,
And fearing God how they should nothing fear.
Those Strokes he said will pierce through all below
Where those that strike from Heaven fetch their Blow.
Note: The remainder is supplied from Ms Eng.poet.d.49
Astonish'd armyes did their flight prepare:
And Cityes strong were stormed by his prayer.
Of that for ever Prestons field shall tell
The Story, and impregnable Clonmell.
And where the sandy mountain Fenwick scald
The Sea between yet henee his pray'r prevail'd.
What man was ever so in Heav'n obey'd
Since the commanded Sun ore Gibeon stayd.
In all his warrs needs must he triumph, when
He conquer'd God still ere he fought with men.
Hence though in battle none so brave or fierce
Yet him the adverse steel could never pierce:
Pitty it seem'd to hurt him more that felt
Each wound himself which he to others delt,
Danger it self refusing to offend
So loose an enemy so fast a freind.
Friendship that sacred versue long das claime
The first foundation of his house and name.
But within one its narrow limitts fall
His tendernesse extended unto all:
And that deep soule through every chanell flows
Where kindly nature loves it self to lose.
More strong affections never reason serv'd
Yet still affected most what best deservd.
If he Eliza lov'd to that degree
(Though who more worstly to be lov'd then she)
If so indulgent to his own, how deare
To him the children of the Highest were?
For her he once did natures tribute pay:
For these his life adventur'd every day.
And it would be found could we his thoughts have
Their griefs struck deepest if Eliza's last.
What prudence more then humane did he need
To keep so deare, so diff'ring mindes agreed?
The worser sort as conscious of their ill,
Lye weak and easy to the rulers will:
But to the good (too many or too few).
All law is uselesse all reward is due.
Oh ill advis'd if not for love for shame.
Spare yet your own if you neglect his fame.
Least others dare to think your reale a maske
And you to govern only Heavens taske.
Valour, Religion, Friendship, Prudence dy'd
At once with him and all that's good beside:
And rue deaths refuse natures dreg's confin'd
To loathsome life Alas are left behinde:
Where we (so once we us'd) shall now no more
To fetch day presse about his chamber door;
From which he issu'd with that awfull state
It seem'd Mars broke through Janus double gate:
Yet alwayes temper'd with an Aire so mild
No Aprill suns that ere so gently smil'd:
No more shall heare that powerfull language charm.
Whose force oft spar'd the labour of his arm:
No more shall follow where he spent the dayes
In warres in counsell, or in pray'r, and praise,
Whose meanest acts he would himself advance
As ungirt David to the Arks did dance.
All All is gone of ours or his delight
In horses fierce wild deer or armour bright.
Francisca faire can nothing now but weep
Nor with soft notes shall sing his cares asleep.
I saw him dead, a leaden slumber lyes
And mortall sleep over those wakefull eys:
Those gentle Rayes under the lidds were fled
Which through his lookes that piercing sweetnesse she
That port which so Majestique was and strong,
Loose and depriv'd of vigour stretch'd along:
All wither'd, all discolour'd, pale and wan,
How much another thing, no more thatman?
Oh humane glory vaine, Oh death, Oh wings,
Oh worthlesse worth. Oh transitory things.
Yet dwelt that greatnesse in his shape decay'd
That still though dead greater than death he lay'd.
And in his alter'd face you something faigne
That threatens death he yet will live againe.
Not much unlike the saired Oake which shoots
To heav'n its branches and through earth its roots:
Whose spacious boughs are hung with Trophees row
And honour'd wreaths have oft the Victour crown
When angry Jove darts lightning through the Aire
At mortalls sins, nor his own plant will spare
(It groanes and bruses all below that stood
So many yeares the shelter of the wood)
The tree ere while foreshorten'd to our view
When foln shews taller yet then as it grew.
So shall his praise to after times increase
When truth shall be allow'd and faction cease.
And his own shadow with him fall. The Eye
Detracts from objects then it selfe more high:
But when death takes them from that envy'd seate
Seing how little we confesse how greate.
Thee many ages hence in martiall verse
Shall th' English souldier ere he charge rehearse:
Singing of thee influme themselves to fight
And with the name of Cromwell armyes fright.
As long as rivers to the seas shall runne.
As long as Cynthia shall relieve the sunne,
While staggs shall fly unto the forests thick,
While sheep delight the grassy downs to pick,
As long as future time succeeds the past,
Always thy honour, praise and name shall last.
Thou in a pitch how farre, beyond the sphere
Of humane glory towr'st, and raigning there
Despoyld of mortall robes, in seas of cliyse
Plunging dost bathe, and tread the bright Abysse:
There thy greate soule yet once a world das see
Spacious enough and pure enough for thee.
How soon thou Moses hast and Josua found
And David for the Sword, and harpe renown'd?
How streight canst to each happy Mansion goe?
(Farr Better known above then here below)
And in those joyes dost spend the endlesse day
Which in expressing we our selves betray.
For we since thou art gone with heavy doome
Wander like ghosts about thy loved tombe:
And lost in tears have neither sight nor minde
To guide us upward through this Region blinde
Since thou art gone who best that way could'st fearn
Onely our sighs perhaps may thither reach.
And Richard yet where his great Parent led
Beats on the rugged track: He vertue dead
Revives, and by his milder beams assures;
And yet how much of them his griefe obscures?
He as his rather long was kept from sight
In private to be view'd by better light:
But open'd once, what splendour dos he throw
A Cromwell in an houre a Prince will grow.
How he becomes that seat, how strongly streins
How gently winds at once the ruling Reins?
Heav'n to this choise prepar'd a Diadem
Richer then any Eastern silk or gemme:
A pearly rainbow; where the Sun inchas'd
His brows like an Imperiall Jewell grac'd.
We find already what those Omens mean.
Earth nere more glad, nor Heaven more serene:
Cease now our griefs, Calme peace succeeds a war
Rainbows to storms, Richard to Oliver.
Tempt not his clemency to try his pow'r
He threats no Deluge, yet fore tells a showre.
When music is far enough away
the eyelid does not often move
and objects are still as lavender
without breath or distant rejoinder.
The cloud is then so subtly dragged
away by the silver flying machine
that the thought of it alone echoes
unbelievably; the sound of the motor falls
like a coin toward the ocean's floor
and the eye does not flicker
as it does when in the loud sun a coin
rises and nicks the near air. Now,
slowly, the heart breathes to music
while the coins lie in wet yellow sand.
Said Hamlet to Ophelia,
I'll draw a sketch of thee,
What kind of pencil shall I use?
2B or not 2B?
One asketh:
"Tell me, Myrson, tell me true:
What's the season pleaseth you?
Is it summer suits you best,
When from harvest toil we rest?
Is it autumn with its glory
Of all surfeited desires?
Is it winter, when with story
And with song we hug our fires?
Or is spring most fair to you--
Come, good Myrson, tell me true!"
Another answereth:
"What the gods in wisdom send
We should question not, my friend;
Yet, since you entreat of me,
I will answer reverently:
Me the summertime displeases,
For its sun is scorching hot;
Autumn brings such dire diseases
That perforce I like it not;
As for biting winter, oh!
How I hate its ice and snow!
"But, thrice welcome, kindly spring,
With the myriad gifts you bring!
Not too hot nor yet too cold,
Graciously your charms unfold--
Oh, your days are like the dreaming
Of those nights which love beseems,
And your nights have all the seeming
Of those days of golden dreams!
Heaven smiles down on earth, and then
Earth smiles up to heaven again!"
The beautiful, the fair, the elegant,
Is that which pleases us, says Kant,
Without a thought of interest or advantage.
I used to watch men when they spoke of beauty
And measure their enthusiasm. One
An old man, seeing a ( ) setting sun,
Praised it ( ) a certain sense of duty
To the calm evening and his time of life.
I know another man that never says a Beauty
But of a horse; ( )
Men seldom speak of beauty, beauty as such,
Not even lovers think about it much.
Women of course consider it for hours
In mirrors; ( )
A shrapnel ball -
Just where the wet skin glistened when he swam -
Like a fully-opened sea-anemone.
We both said 'What a beauty! What a beauty, lad'
I knew that in that flower he saw a hope
Of living on, and seeing again the roses of his home.
Beauty is that which pleases and delights,
Not bringing personal advantage - Kant.
But later on I heard
A canker worked into that crimson flower
And that he sank with it
And laid it with the anemones off Dover.
Give me this time, my first and severe
Italian, a poem about gold,
The left corners of eyes, and the heavy
Night of the locomotives that brought me here,
And the heavy wine in the old green body,
The glass that so many have drunk from.
I have brought my bottle back home every day
To the cool cave, and come forth
Golden on the left corner
of a cathedral's wing:
White wine of Bologna,
And the knowing golden shadows
At the left corners of Mary Magdalene's eyes,
While St. Cecilia stands
Smirking in the center of a blank wall,
The saint letting her silly pipes wilt down,
Adoring
Herself, while the lowly and richest of all women eyes
Me the beholder, with a knowing sympathy, her love
For the golden body of the earth, she knows me,
Her halo faintly askew,
And no despair in her gold
That drags thrones down
And then makes them pay for it.
Oh,
She may look sorry to Cecilia
And
The right-hand saint on the tree,
But
She didn't look sorry to Raphael,
And
I bet she didn't look sorry to Jesus,
And
She doesn't look sorry to me.
(Who would?)
She doesn't look sorry to me.
She looks like only the heavy deep gold
That drags thrones down
All day long on the vine.
Mary in Bologna, sunlight I gathered all morning
And pressed in my hands all afternoon
And drank all day with my golden-breasted
Love in my arms.
TO her, for I must still regard her
As feminine in her degree,
Who has been my unkind bombarder
Year after year, in grief and glee,
Year after year, with oaken tree;
And yet betweenwhiles my laudator
In terms astonishing to me -
To the Right Reverend The Spectator
I here, a humble dedicator,
Bring the last apples from my tree.
In tones of love, in tones of warning,
She hailed me through my brief career;
And kiss and buffet, night and morning,
Told me my grandmamma was near;
Whether she praised me high and clear
Through her unrivalled circulation,
Or, sanctimonious insincere,
She damned me with a misquotation -
A chequered but a sweet relation,
Say, was it not, my granny dear?
Believe me, granny, altogether
Yours, though perhaps to your surprise.
Oft have you spruced my wounded feather,
Oft brought a light into my eyes -
For notice still the writer cries.
In any civil age or nation,
The book that is not talked of dies.
So that shall be my termination:
Whether in praise or execration,
Still, if you love me, criticise!
Four bright steel crosses,
universal joints, plucked
out of the burlap sack --
"the heart of the drive train,"
the book says. Stars
on Lemon's wooden palm,
stars that must be capped,
rolled, and anointed,
that have their orders
and their commands as he
has his.
Under the blue
hesitant light another day
at Automotive
in the city of dreams.
We're all here to count
and be counted, Lemon,
Rosie, Eugene, Luis,
and me, too young to know
this is for keeps, pinning
on my apron, rolling up
my sleeves.
The roof leaks
from yesterday's rain,
the waters gather above us
waiting for one mistake.
When a drop falls on Lemon's
corded arm, he looks at it
as though it were something
rare or mysterious
like a drop of water or
a single lucid meteor
fallen slowly from
nowhere and burning on
his skin like a tear.
In a modern museum
In an old synagogue
In the synagogue
I
Within me
My heart
Within my heart
A museum
Within a museum
A synagogue
Within it
I
Within me
My heart
Within my heart
A museum
A nasty surprise in a sandwich,
A drawing-pin caught in your sock,
The limpest of shakes from a hand which
You'd thought would be firm as a rock,
A serious mistake in a nightie,
A grave disappointment all round
Is all that you'll get from th'Almighty,
Is all that you'll get underground.
Oh he said: 'If you lay off the crumpet
I'll see you alright in the end.
Just hang on until the last trumpet.
Have faith in me, chum-I'm your friend.'
But if you remind him, he'll tell you:
'I'm sorry, I must have been pissed-
Though your name rings a sort of a bell. You
Should have guessed that I do not exist.
'I didn't exist at Creation,
I didn't exist at the Flood,
And I won't be around for Salvation
To sort out the sheep from the cud-
'Or whatever the phrase is. The fact is
In soteriological terms
I'm a crude existential malpractice
And you are a diet of worms.
'You're a nasty surprise in a sandwich.
You're a drawing-pin caught in my sock.
You're the limpest of shakes from a hand which
I'd have thought would be firm as a rock,
'You're a serious mistake in a nightie,
You're a grave disappointment all round-
That's all you are, ' says th'Almighty,
'And that's all that you'll be underground.'
1983
Hair is heaven's water flowing eerily over us
Often a woman drifts off down her long hair and is lost
To exalt, enthrone, establish and defend,
To welcome home mankind's mysterious friend
Wine, true begetter of all arts that be;
Wine, privilege of the completely free;
Wine the recorder; wine the sagely strong;
Wine, bright avenger of sly-dealing wrong,
Awake, Ausonian Muse, and sing the vineyard song!
Sing how the Charioteer from Asia came,
And on his front the little dancing flame
Which marked the God-head. Sing the Panther-team,
The gilded Thrysus twirling, and the gleam
Of cymbals through the darkness. Sing the drums.
He comes; the young renewer of Hellas comes!
The Seas await him. Those Aegean Seas
Roll from the dawning, ponderous, ill at ease,
In lifts of lead, whose cresting hardly breaks
To ghostly foam, when suddenly there awakes
A mountain glory inland. All the skies
Are luminous; and amid the sea bird cries
The mariner hears a morning breeze arise.
Then goes the Pageant forward. The sea-way
Silvers the feet of that august array
Trailing above the waters, through the airs;
And as they pass a wind before them bears
The quickening word, the influence magical.
The Islands have received it, marble-tall;
The long shores of the mainland. Something fills
The warm Euboean combes, the sacred hills
Of Aulis and of Argos. Still they move
Touching the City walls, the Temple grove,
Till, far upon the horizon-glint, a gleam
Of light, of trembling light, revealed they seem
Turned to a cloud, but to a cloud that shines,
And everywhere as they pass, the Vines! The Vines!
The Vines, the conquering Vines! And the Vine
breaths
Her savour through the upland, empty heaths
Of treeless wastes; the Vines have come to where
The dark Pelasgian steep defends the lair
Of the wolf's hiding; to the empty fields
By Aufidus, the dry campaign that yields
No harvest for the husbandman, but now
Shall bear a nobler foison than the plough;
To where, festooned along the tall elm trees,
Tendrils are mirrored in Tyrrhenian seas;
To where the South awaits them; even to where
Stark, African informed of burning air,
Upturned to Heaven the broad Hipponian plain
Extends luxurious and invites the main.
Guelma's a mother: barren Thaspsa breeds;
And northward in the valleys, next the meads
That sleep by misty river banks, the Vines
Have struck to spread below the solemn pines.
The Vines are on the roof-trees. All the Shrines
And Homes of men are consecrate with Vines.
And now the task of that triumphant day
Has reached to victory. In the reddening ray
With all his train, from hard Iberian lands
Fulfilled, apparent, that Creator stands
Halted on Atlas. Far Beneath him, far,
The strength of Ocean darkening and the star
Beyond all shores. There is a silence made.
It glorifies: and the gigantic shade
Of Hercules adores him from the West.
Dead Lucre: burnt Ambition: Wine is best.
But what are these that from the outer murk
Of dense mephitic vapours creeping lurk
To breathe foul airs from that corrupted well
Which oozes slime along the floor of Hell?
These are the stricken palsied brood of sin
In whose vile veins, poor, poisonous and thin,
Decoctions of embittered hatreds crawl:
These are the Water-Drinkers, cursed all!
On what gin-sodden Hags, what flaccid sires
Bred these White Slugs from what exhaust desires?
In what close prison's horror were their wiles
Watched by what tyrant power with evil smiles;
Or in what caverns, blocked from grace and air
Received they, then, the mandates of despair?
What! Must our race, our tragic race, that roam
All exiled from our first, and final, home:
That in one moment of temptation lost
Our heritage, and now wander, hunger-tost
Beyond the Gates (still speaking with our eyes
For ever of remembered Paradise),
Must we with every gift accepted, still,
With every joy, receive attendant ill?
Must some lewd evil follow all our good
And muttering dog our brief beatitude?
A primal doom, inexorable, wise,
Permitted, ordered, even these to rise.
Even in the shadow of so bright a Lord
Must swarm and propagate the filthy horde
Debased, accursed I say, abhorrent and abhorred.
Accursed and curse-bestowing. For whosoe'er
Shall suffer their contagion, everywhere
Falls from the estate of man and finds his end
To the mere beverage of the beast condemned.
For such as these in vain the Rhine has rolled
Imperial centuries by hills of gold;
For such as these the flashing Rhone shall rage
In vain its lightning through the Hermitage
Or level-browed divine Touraine receive
The tribute of her vintages at eve.
For such as these Burgundian heats in vain
Swell the rich slope or load the empurpled plain.
Bootless for such as these the mighty task
Of bottling God the Father in a flask
And leading all Creation down distilled
To one small ardent sphere immensely filled.
With memories empty, with experience null,
With vapid eye-balls meaningless and dull
They pass unblest through the unfruitful light;
And when we open the bronze doors of Night,
When we in high carousal, we reclined,
Spur up to Heaven the still ascending mind,
Pass with the all inspiring, to and fro,
The torch of genius and the Muse's glow,
They, lifeless, stare at vacancy alone
Or plan mean traffic, or repeat their moan.
We, when repose demands us, welcomed are
In young white arms, like our great Exemplar
Who, wearied with creation, takes his rest
And sinks to sleep on Ariadne's breast.
They through the darkness into darkness press
Despised, abandoned and companionless.
And when the course of either's sleep has run
We leap to life like heralds of the sun;
We from the couch in roseate mornings gay
Salute as equals the exultant day
While they, the unworthy, unrewarded, they
The dank despisers of the Vine, arise
To watch grey dawns and mourn indifferent skies.
Forget them! Form the Dionysian ring
And pulse the ground, and Io, Io, sing.
Father Lenaean, to whom our strength belongs,
Our loves, our wars, our laughter and our songs,
Remember our inheritance, who praise
Your glory in these last unhappy days
When beauty sickens and a muddied robe
Of baseness fouls the universal globe.
Though all the Gods indignant and their train
Abandon ruined man, do thou remain!
By thee the vesture of our life was made,
The Embattled Gate, the lordly Colonnade,
The woven fabric's gracious hues, the sound
Of trumpets, and the quivering fountain-round,
And, indestructible, the Arch, and, high,
The Shaft of Stone that stands against the sky,
And, last, the guardian-genius of them, Rhyme,
Come from beyond the world to conquer time:
All these are thine, Lenaean.
By thee do seers the inward light discern;
By thee the statue lives, the Gods return;
By thee the thunder and the falling foam
Of loud Acquoria's torrent call to Rome;
Alba rejoices in a thousand springs,
Gensano laughs, and Orvieto sings...
But, Ah! With Orvieto, with that name
Of dark, Eturian, subterranean flame
The years dissolve. I am standing in that hour
Of majesty Septembral, and the power
Which swells the clusters when the nights are still
With autumn stars on Orvieto hill.
Had these been mine, Ausonian Muse, to know
The large contented oxen heaving slow;
To count my sheaves at harvest; so to spend
Perfected days in peace until the end;
With every evening's dust of gold to hear
The bells upon the pasture height, the clear
Full horn of herdsmen gathering in the kine
To ancient byres in hamlets Appenine,
And crown abundant age with generous ease:
Had these, Ausonian Muse, had these, had these.....
But since I would not, since I could not stay,
Let me remember even in this my day
How, when the ephemeral vision's lure is past
All, all, must face their Passion at the last
Was there not one that did to Heaven complain
How, driving through the midnight and the rain,
He struck, the Atlantic seethe and surge before,
Wrecked in the North along a lonely shore
To make the lights of home and hear his name no
more.
Was there not one that from a desperate field
Rode with no guerdon but a rifted shield;
A name disherited; a broken sword;
Wounds unrenowned; battle beneath no Lord;
Strong blows, but on the void, and toil without
reward.
When from the waste of such long labour done
I too must leave the grape-ennobling sun
And like the vineyard worker take my way
Down the long shadows of declining day,
Bend on the sombre plain my clouded sight
And leave the mountain to the advancing night,
Come to the term of all that was mine own
With nothingness before me, and alone;
Then to what hope of answer shall I turn?
Comrade-Commander whom I dared not earn,
What said You then to trembling friends and
few?
"A moment, and I drink it with you new:
But in my Father's Kingdom." So, my Friend,
Let not Your cup desert me in the end.
But when the hour of mine adventure's near
Just and benignant, let my youth appear
Bearing a Chalice, open, golden, wide,
With benediction graven on its side.
So touch my dying lip: so bridge that deep:
So pledge my waking from the gift of sleep,
And, sacramental, raise me the Divine:
Strong brother in God and last companion, Wine.
I am offering this poem to you,
since I have nothing else to give.
Keep it like a warm coat,
when winter comes to cover you,
or like a pair of thick socks
the cold cannot bite through,
I love you,
I have nothing else to give you,
so it is a pot full of yellow corn
to warm your belly in the winter,
it is a scarf for your head, to wear
over your hair, to tie up around your face,
I love you,
Keep it, treasure it as you would
if you were lost, needing direction,
in the wilderness life becomes when mature;
and in the corner of your drawer,
tucked away like a cabin or a hogan
in dense trees, come knocking,
and I will answer, give you directions,
and let you warm yourself by this fire,
rest by this fire, and make you feel safe,
I love you,
It's all I have to give,
and it's all anyone needs to live,
and to go on living inside,
when the world outside
no longer cares if you live or die;
remember,
I love you.
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would write it special and only to you
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
So that we will forever remain so very very true
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
With more than a goodness like something new
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
Like the everlasting stay of the sky so blue
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would pray to God
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would work very hard for the Lord
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
With happiness the remain all through the year
f only I could write a beautiful love poem
Knowing that you will be very near
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
One so very very true
If only I could write a beautiful love poem
I would write it just for you
The sentencing goes blithely on its way
And takes the playfully objected rhyme
As surely as it takes the stroke and time
In having its undeviable say.
with love
give me your hand
some stranger
is fiction than truth
without love
I'm justa has
been away
too long in the tooth.
An Elegy for Tristan Tzara
In the hungry kitchen
The dog sings for its dinner.
The housewife is writing her poem
On top of the frigidaire
Something like this:
'Hear in the kitchen
The crows fly home
Into the red-robed trees
That walk across the sky.
Hear under the floor
The three fountains rising and
Trickling through the bridge
Into the sea of poems.'
In the kitchen the housemother
Pours soup for her thousand children
As her man eats his silence
And the dog swallows its poem.
In all. the kitchens of Europe
The radio shouts good news:
'Millions have had no accident today
All wars have come to an end
An honest politician
In another country
Wants to become a plumber
All men will be equal, next year
Volcano vomits ice-cream
A silent poem has been invented.'
In my holy kitchen
I draw the blinds of night
On the homes of sleep.
I hold the world in my palms.
Now that I am old
I can measure life with words.
There's a nightingale in my coffee.
My bread is buttered with memories.
Since the old woman died
I have two souls.
When I was small we had a lucky black cat.
We had a magic horse-shoe on the wall,
It was rusty and brought no luck
But fetched the fields into the kitchen
And made us not forget horses.
When you are old you make your own magic.
You speak oftener for the dead.
You move free in the wonderland of the past.
You invent a future on the other shore of death.
You must speak for the dead,
You are their rusty horse-shoe
In all the kitchens of the world,
Not the mug on the radio
But a thought rescued from the past.
(There was love in the thin soup
A bone some lentils and great love.
My mother's hands were clouds.
There was a bluebird in the gasjet
When she bathed us by the kitchen fire.
There will be no such soup again
Nor such transcendent poverty.
I have lost the treasure of poverty.
The old woman is dead and buried
In her wonderland of oblivion,
But lives in my kitchen poem
In this 'sentimental' aside.)
Now that I am an old man, I think in bed.
I think nothing. I think poems -
The metronome of sleeplessness and death,
The art of being deliberately alone and yet
A centre in the vortex of the world,
Feelings stretched drum-tight on the grid of thought
As your decaying flesh taut on its bones,
Sensations phantom ideas dreams, pinned bugs
On the living conveyor-belt of experience,
While in the poem you are everybody else,
Each poem merging into another construct,
All poems rationally absurd impermanent
------------------DADA------------ ------
There being no poem ever, no poet ever.
An old man in a kitchen, cooking words.
I am no poet I am
Lived by unfinishable poems,
The horse-shoe hammered
On the anvil of my brain.
I think nothing. The poems think me.
I do not often write them down,
Being a structuration of the unknowable
That dies upon the page,
My inward poems whispered for the dead
While the living bury the living
With foul political slogans.
An owl is hooting in my poem
Which sleep will end.
Good night, poet of life,
Be with me always.
I give you my kitchen poem,
Immortal TRISTAN.
Yours is the face that the earth turns to me,
Continuous beyond its human features lie
The mountain forms that rest against the sky.
With your eyes, the reflecting rainbow, the sun's light
Sees me; forest and flower, bird and beast
Know and hold me forever in the world's thought,
Creation's deep untroubled retrospect.
When your hand touches mine it is the earth
That takes me--the green grass,
And rocks and rivers; the green graves,
And children still unborn, and ancestors,
In love passed down from hand to hand from God.
Your love comes from the creation of the world,
From those paternal fingers, streaming through the clouds
That break with light the surface of the sea.
Here, where I trace your body with my hand,
Love's presence has no end;
For these, your arms that hold me, are the world's.
In us, the continents, clouds and oceans meet
Our arbitrary selves, extensive with the night,
Lost, in the heart's worship, and the body's sleep.
There is always something to be made of pain.
Your mother knits.
She turns out scarves in every shade of red.
They were for Christmas, and they kept you warm
while she married over and over, taking you
along. How could it work,
when all those years she stored her widowed heart
as though the dead come back.
No wonder you are the way you are,
afraid of blood, your women
like one brick wall after another.
It's so nice
to wake up in the morning
all alone
and not have to tell somebody
you love them
when you don't love them
any more.
If from the public way you turn your steps
Up the tumultuous brook of Greenhead Ghyll,
You will suppose that with an upright path
Your feet must struggle; in such bold ascent
The pastoral mountains front you, face to face.
But, courage! for around that boisterous brook
The mountains have all opened out themselves,
And made a hidden valley of their own.
No habitation can be seen; but they
Who journey thither find themselves alone
With a few sheep, with rocks and stones, and kites
That overhead are sailing in the sky.
It is in truth an utter solitude;
Nor should I have made mention of this Dell
But for one object which you might pass by,
Might see and notice not. Beside the brook
Appears a straggling heap of unhewn stones!
And to that simple object appertains
A story--unenriched with strange events,
Yet not unfit, I deem, for the fireside,
Or for the summer shade. It was the first
Of those domestic tales that spake to me
Of shepherds, dwellers in the valleys, men
Whom I already loved; not verily
For their own sakes, but for the fields and hills
Where was their occupation and abode.
And hence this Tale, while I was yet a Boy
Careless of books, yet having felt the power
Of Nature, by the gentle agency
Of natural objects, led me on to feel
For passions that were not my own, and think
(At random and imperfectly indeed)
On man, the heart of man, and human life.
Therefore, although it be a history
Homely and rude, I will relate the same
For the delight of a few natural hearts;
And, with yet fonder feeling, for the sake
Of youthful Poets, who among these hills
Will be my second self when I am gone.
UPON the forest-side in Grasmere Vale
There dwelt a Shepherd, Michael was his name;
An old man, stout of heart, and strong of limb.
His bodily frame had been from youth to age
Of an unusual strength: his mind was keen,
Intense, and frugal, apt for all affairs,
And in his shepherd's calling he was prompt
And watchful more than ordinary men.
Hence had he learned the meaning of all winds,
Of blasts of every tone; and, oftentimes,
When others heeded not, He heard the South
Make subterraneous music, like the noise
Of bagpipers on distant Highland hills.
The Shepherd, at such warning, of his flock
Bethought him, and he to himself would say,
"The winds are now devising work for me!"
And, truly, at all times, the storm, that drives
The traveller to a shelter, summoned him
Up to the mountains: he had been alone
Amid the heart of many thousand mists,
That came to him, and left him, on the heights.
So lived he till his eightieth year was past.
And grossly that man errs, who should suppose
That the green valleys, and the streams and rocks,
Were things indifferent to the Shepherd's thoughts.
Fields, where with cheerful spirits he had breathed
The common air; hills, which with vigorous step
He had so often climbed; which had impressed
So many incidents upon his mind
Of hardship, skill or courage, joy or fear;
Which, like a book, preserved the memory
Of the dumb animals, whom he had saved,
Had fed or sheltered, linking to such acts
The certainty of honourable gain;
Those fields, those hills--what could they less? had laid
Strong hold on his affections, were to him
A pleasurable feeling of blind love,
The pleasure which there is in life itself.
His days had not been passed in singleness.
His Helpmate was a comely matron, old--
Though younger than himself full twenty years.
She was a woman of a stirring life,
Whose heart was in her house: two wheels she had
Of antique form; this large, for spinning wool;
That small, for flax; and if one wheel had rest
It was because the other was at work.
The Pair had but one inmate in their house,
An only Child, who had been born to them
When Michael, telling o'er his years, began
To deem that he was old,--in shepherd's phrase,
With one foot in the grave. This only Son,
With two brave sheep-dogs tried in many a storm,
The one of an inestimable worth,
Made all their household. I may truly say,
That they were as a proverb in the vale
For endless industry. When day was gone
And from their occupations out of doors
The Son and Father were come home, even then,
Their labour did not cease; unless when all
Turned to the cleanly supper-board, and there,
Each with a mess of pottage and skimmed milk, 0
Sat round the basket piled with oaten cakes,
And their plain home-made cheese. Yet when the meal
Was ended, Luke (for so the Son was named)
And his old Father both betook themselves
To such convenient work as might employ
Their hands by the fireside; perhaps to card
Wool for the Housewife's spindle, or repair
Some injury done to sickle, flail, or scythe,
Or other implement of house or field.
Down from the ceiling, by the chimney's edge,
That in our ancient uncouth country style
With huge and black projection overbrowed
Large space beneath, as duly as the light
Of day grew dim the Housewife hung a lamp;
An aged utensil, which had performed
Service beyond all others of its kind.
Early at evening did it burn--and late,
Surviving comrade of uncounted hours,
Which, going by from year to year, had found,
And left, the couple neither gay perhaps
Nor cheerful, yet with objects and with hopes,
Living a life of eager industry.
And now, when Luke had reached his eighteenth year,
There by the light of this old lamp they sate,
Father and Son, while far into the night
The Housewife plied her own peculiar work,
Making the cottage through the silent hours
Murmur as with the sound of summer flies.
This light was famous in its neighbourhood,
And was a public symbol of the life
That thrifty Pair had lived. For, as it chanced,
Their cottage on a plot of rising ground
Stood single, with large prospect, north and south,
High into Easedale, up to Dunmail-Raise,
And westward to the village near the lake;
And from this constant light, so regular
And so far seen, the House itself, by all
Who dwelt within the limits of the vale,
Both old and young, was named THE EVENING STAR.
Thus living on through such a length of years,
The Shepherd, if he loved himself, must needs
Have loved his Helpmate; but to Michael's heart
This son of his old age was yet more dear--
Less from instinctive tenderness, the same
Fond spirit that blindly works in the blood of all--
Than that a child, more than all other gifts
That earth can offer to declining man,
Brings hope with it, and forward-looking thoughts,
And stirrings of inquietude, when they
By tendency of nature needs must fail.
Exceeding was the love he bare to him,
His heart and his heart's joy! For oftentimes
Old Michael, while he was a babe in arms,
Had done him female service, not alone
For pastime and delight, as is the use
Of fathers, but with patient mind enforced
To acts of tenderness; and he had rocked
His cradle, as with a woman's gentle hand.
And, in a later time, ere yet the Boy
Had put on boy's attire, did Michael love,
Albeit of a stern unbending mind,
To have the Young-one in his sight, when he
Wrought in the field, or on his shepherd's stool
Sate with a fettered sheep before him stretched
Under the large old oak, that near his door
Stood single, and, from matchless depth of shade,
Chosen for the Shearer's covert from the sun,
Thence in our rustic dialect was called
The CLIPPING TREE, a name which yet it bears.
There, while they two were sitting in the shade,
With others round them, earnest all and blithe,
Would Michael exercise his heart with looks
Of fond correction and reproof bestowed
Upon the Child, if he disturbed the sheep
By catching at their legs, or with his shouts
Scared them, while they lay still beneath the shears.
And when by Heaven's good grace the boy grew up
A healthy Lad, and carried in his cheek
Two steady roses that were five years old;
Then Michael from a winter coppice cut
With his own hand a sapling, which he hooped
With iron, making it throughout in all
Due requisites a perfect shepherd's staff,
And gave it to the Boy; wherewith equipt
He as a watchman oftentimes was placed
At gate or gap, to stem or turn the flock;
And, to his office prematurely called,
There stood the urchin, as you will divine,
Something between a hindrance and a help;
And for this cause not always, I believe,
Receiving from his Father hire of praise;
Though nought was left undone which staff, or voice,
Or looks, or threatening gestures, could perform.
But soon as Luke, full ten years old, could stand
Against the mountain blasts; and to the heights,
Not fearing toil, nor length of weary ways,
He with his Father daily went, and they
Were as companions, why should I relate
That objects which the Shepherd loved before
Were dearer now? that from the Boy there came 0
Feelings and emanations--things which were
Light to the sun and music to the wind;
And that the old Man's heart seemed born again?
Thus in his Father's sight the Boy grew up:
And now, when he had reached his eighteenth year,
He was his comfort and his daily hope.
While in this sort the simple household lived
From day to day, to Michael's ear there came
Distressful tidings. Long before the time
Of which I speak, the Shepherd had been bound
In surety for his brother's son, a man
Of an industrious life, and ample means;
But unforeseen misfortunes suddenly
Had prest upon him; and old Michael now
Was summoned to discharge the forfeiture,
A grievous penalty, but little less
Than half his substance. This unlooked-for claim,
At the first hearing, for a moment took
More hope out of his life than he supposed
That any old man ever could have lost.
As soon as he had armed himself with strength
To look his trouble in the face, it seemed
The Shepherd's sole resource to sell at once
A portion of his patrimonial fields.
Such was his first resolve; he thought again,
And his heart failed him. "Isabel," said he,
Two evenings after he had heard the news,
"I have been toiling more than seventy years,
And in the open sunshine of God's love
Have we all lived; yet if these fields of ours
Should pass into a stranger's hand, I think
That I could not lie quiet in my grave.
Our lot is a hard lot; the sun himself
Has scarcely been more diligent than I;
And I have lived to be a fool at last
To my own family. An evil man
That was, and made an evil choice, if he
Were false to us; and if he were not false,
There are ten thousand to whom loss like this
Had been no sorrow. I forgive him;--but
'Twere better to be dumb than to talk thus.
When I began, my purpose was to speak
Of remedies and of a cheerful hope.
Our Luke shall leave us, Isabel; the land
Shall not go from us, and it shall be free;
He shall possess it, free as is the wind
That passes over it. We have, thou know'st,
Another kinsman--he will be our friend
In this distress. He is a prosperous man,
Thriving in trade--and Luke to him shall go,
And with his kinsman's help and his own thrift
He quickly will repair this loss, and then
He may return to us. If here he stay,
What can be done? Where every one is poor,
What can be gained?"
At this the old Man paused,
And Isabel sat silent, for her mind
Was busy, looking back into past times.
There's Richard Bateman, thought she to herself,
He was a parish-boy--at the church-door
They made a gathering for him, shillings, pence
And halfpennies, wherewith the neighbours bought
A basket, which they filled with pedlar's wares;
And, with this basket on his arm, the lad
Went up to London, found a master there,
Who, out of many, chose the trusty boy
To go and overlook his merchandise
Beyond the seas; where he grew wondrous rich,
And left estates and monies to the poor,
And, at his birth-place, built a chapel, floored
With marble which he sent from foreign lands.
These thoughts, and many others of like sort,
Passed quickly through the mind of Isabel,
And her face brightened. The old Man was glad,
And thus resumed:--"Well, Isabel! this scheme
These two days, has been meat and drink to me.
Far more than we have lost is left us yet.
--We have enough--I wish indeed that I
Were younger;--but this hope is a good hope.
--Make ready Luke's best garments, of the best
Buy for him more, and let us send him forth
To-morrow, or the next day, or to-night:
--If he 'could' go, the Boy should go tonight."
Here Michael ceased, and to the fields went forth
With a light heart. The Housewife for five days
Was restless morn and night, and all day long
Wrought on with her best fingers to prepare
Things needful for the journey of her son.
But Isabel was glad when Sunday came
To stop her in her work: for, when she lay
By Michael's side, she through the last two nights
Heard him, how he was troubled in his sleep:
And when they rose at morning she could see
That all his hopes were gone. That day at noon
She said to Luke, while they two by themselves
Were sitting at the door, "Thou must not go:
We have no other Child but thee to lose
None to remember--do not go away,
For if thou leave thy Father he will die."
The Youth made answer with a jocund voice;
And Isabel, when she had told her fears, 0
Recovered heart. That evening her best fare
Did she bring forth, and all together sat
Like happy people round a Christmas fire.
With daylight Isabel resumed her work;
And all the ensuing week the house appeared
As cheerful as a grove in Spring: at length
The expected letter from their kinsman came,
With kind assurances that he would do
His utmost for the welfare of the Boy;
To which, requests were added, that forthwith
He might be sent to him. Ten times or more
The letter was read over; Isabel
Went forth to show it to the neighbours round;
Nor was there at that time on English land
A prouder heart than Luke's. When Isabel
Had to her house returned, the old Man said,
"He shall depart to-morrow." To this word
The Housewife answered, talking much of things
Which, if at such short notice he should go,
Would surely be forgotten. But at length
She gave consent, and Michael was at ease.
Near the tumultuous brook of Greenhead Ghyll,
In that deep valley, Michael had designed
To build a Sheepfold; and, before he heard
The tidings of his melancholy loss,
For this same purpose he had gathered up
A heap of stones, which by the streamlet's edge
Lay thrown together, ready for the work.
With Luke that evening thitherward he walked:
And soon as they had reached the place he stopped,
And thus the old Man spake to him:--"My Son,
To-morrow thou wilt leave me: with full heart
I look upon thee, for thou art the same
That wert a promise to me ere thy birth,
And all thy life hast been my daily joy.
I will relate to thee some little part
Of our two histories; 'twill do thee good
When thou art from me, even if I should touch
On things thou canst not know of.----After thou
First cam'st into the world--as oft befalls
To new-born infants--thou didst sleep away
Two days, and blessings from thy Father's tongue
Then fell upon thee. Day by day passed on,
And still I loved thee with increasing love.
Never to living ear came sweeter sounds
Than when I heard thee by our own fireside
First uttering, without words, a natural tune;
While thou, a feeding babe, didst in thy joy
Sing at thy Mother's breast. Month followed month,
And in the open fields my life was passed
And on the mountains; else I think that thou
Hadst been brought up upon thy Father's knees.
But we were playmates, Luke: among these hills,
As well thou knowest, in us the old and young
Have played together, nor with me didst thou
Lack any pleasure which a boy can know."
Luke had a manly heart; but at these words
He sobbed aloud. The old Man grasped his hand,
And said, "Nay, do not take it so--I see
That these are things of which I need not speak.
--Even to the utmost I have been to thee
A kind and a good Father: and herein
I but repay a gift which I myself
Received at others' hands; for, though now old
Beyond the common life of man, I still
Remember them who loved me in my youth.
Both of them sleep together: here they lived,
As all their Forefathers had done; and when
At length their time was come, they were not loth
To give their bodies to the family mould.
I wished that thou should'st live the life they lived:
But, 'tis a long time to look back, my Son,
And see so little gain from threescore years.
These fields were burthened when they came to me;
Till I was forty years of age, not more
Than half of my inheritance was mine.
I toiled and toiled; God blessed me in my work,
And till these three weeks past the land was free.
--It looks as if it never could endure
Another Master. Heaven forgive me, Luke,
If I judge ill for thee, but it seems good
That thou should'st go."
At this the old Man paused;
Then, pointing to the stones near which they stood,
Thus, after a short silence, he resumed:
"This was a work for us; and now, my Son,
It is a work for me. But, lay one stone--
Here, lay it for me, Luke, with thine own hands.
Nay, Boy, be of good hope;--we both may live
To see a better day. At eighty-four
I still am strong and hale;--do thou thy part;
I will do mine.--I will begin again
With many tasks that were resigned to thee:
Up to the heights, and in among the storms,
Will I without thee go again, and do
All works which I was wont to do alone,
Before I knew thy face.--Heaven bless thee, Boy!
Thy heart these two weeks has been beating fast
With many hopes; it should be so--yes--yes--
I knew that thou could'st never have a wish
To leave me, Luke: thou hast been bound to me 0
Only by links of love: when thou art gone,
What will be left to us!--But, I forget
My purposes. Lay now the corner-stone,
As I requested; and hereafter, Luke,
When thou art gone away, should evil men
Be thy companions, think of me, my Son,
And of this moment; hither turn thy thoughts,
And God will strengthen thee: amid all fear
And all temptation, Luke, I pray that thou
May'st bear in mind the life thy Fathers lived,
Who, being innocent, did for that cause
Bestir them in good deeds. Now, fare thee well--
When thou return'st, thou in this place wilt see
A work which is not here: a covenant
'Twill be between us; but, whatever fate
Befall thee, I shall love thee to the last,
And bear thy memory with me to the grave."
The Shepherd ended here; and Luke stooped down,
And, as his Father had requested, laid
The first stone of the Sheepfold. At the sight
The old Man's grief broke from him; to his heart
He pressed his Son, he kissed him and wept;
And to the house together they returned.
--Hushed was that House in peace, or seeming peace,
Ere the night fell:--with morrow's dawn the Boy
Began his journey, and when he had reached
The public way, he put on a bold face;
And all the neighbours, as he passed their doors,
Came forth with wishes and with farewell prayers,
That followed him till he was out of sight.
A good report did from their Kinsman come,
Of Luke and his well-doing: and the Boy
Wrote loving letters, full of wondrous news,
Which, as the Housewife phrased it, were throughout
"The prettiest letters that were ever seen."
Both parents read them with rejoicing hearts.
So, many months passed on: and once again
The Shepherd went about his daily work
With confident and cheerful thoughts; and now
Sometimes when he could find a leisure hour
He to that valley took his way, and there
Wrought at the Sheepfold. Meantime Luke began
To slacken in his duty; and, at length,
He in the dissolute city gave himself
To evil courses: ignominy and shame
Fell on him, so that he was driven at last
To seek a hiding-place beyond the seas.
There is a comfort in the strength of love;
'Twill make a thing endurable, which else
Would overset the brain, or break the heart:
I have conversed with more than one who well
Remember the old Man, and what he was
Years after he had heard this heavy news.
His bodily frame had been from youth to age
Of an unusual strength. Among the rocks
He went, and still looked up to sun and cloud,
And listened to the wind; and, as before,
Performed all kinds of labour for his sheep,
And for the land, his small inheritance.
And to that hollow dell from time to time
Did he repair, to build the Fold of which
His flock had need. 'Tis not forgotten yet
The pity which was then in every heart
For the old Man--and 'tis believed by all
That many and many a day he thither went,
And never lifted up a single stone.
There, by the Sheepfold, sometimes was he seen
Sitting alone, or with his faithful Dog,
Then old, beside him, lying at his feet.
The length of full seven years, from time to time,
He at the building of this Sheepfold wrought,
And left the work unfinished when he died.
Three years, or little more, did Isabel
Survive her Husband: at her death the estate
Was sold, and went into a stranger's hand.
The Cottage which was named the EVENING STAR
Is gone--the ploughshare has been through the ground
On which it stood; great changes have been wrought
In all the neighbourhood:--yet the oak is left
That grew beside their door; and the remains
Of the unfinished Sheepfold may be seen
Beside the boisterous brook of Greenhead Ghyll.
The night has been long,
The wound has been deep,
The pit has been dark,
And the walls have been steep.
Under a dead blue sky on a distant beach,
I was dragged by my braids just beyond your reach.
Your hands were tied, your mouth was bound,
You couldn't even call out my name.
You were helpless and so was I,
But unfortunately throughout history
You've worn a badge of shame.
I say, the night has been long,
The wound has been deep,
The pit has been dark
And the walls have been steep.
But today, voices of old spirit sound
Speak to us in words profound,
Across the years, across the centuries,
Across the oceans, and across the seas.
They say, draw near to one another,
Save your race.
You have been paid for in a distant place,
The old ones remind us that slavery's chains
Have paid for our freedom again and again.
The night has been long,
The pit has been deep,
The night has been dark,
And the walls have been steep.
The hells we have lived through and live through still,
Have sharpened our senses and toughened our will.
The night has been long.
This morning I look through your anguish
Right down to your soul.
I know that with each other we can make ourselves whole.
I look through the posture and past your disguise,
And see your love for family in your big brown eyes.
I say, clap hands and let's come together in this meeting ground,
I say, clap hands and let's deal with each other with love,
I say, clap hands and let us get from the low road of indifference,
Clap hands, let us come together and reveal our hearts,
Let us come together and revise our spirits,
Let us come together and cleanse our souls,
Clap hands, let's leave the preening
And stop impostering our own history.
Clap hands, call the spirits back from the ledge,
Clap hands, let us invite joy into our conversation,
Courtesy into our bedrooms,
Gentleness into our kitchen,
Care into our nursery.
The ancestors remind us, despite the history of pain
We are a going-on people who will rise again.
And still we rise.
Tempora labuntur, tacitisque senescimus annis,
Et fugiunt freno non remorante dies.
Ovid, Fastorum, Lib. vi.
'O Cæsar, we who are about to die
Salute you! ' was the gladiators' cry
In the arena, standing face to face
With death and with the Roman populace.
O ye familiar scenes,- ye groves of pine,
That once were mine and are no longer mine,-
Thou river, widening through the meadows green
To the vast sea, so near and yet unseen,-
Ye halls, in whose seclusion and repose
Phantoms of fame, like exhalations, rose
And vanished,- we who are about to die,
Salute you; earth and air and sea and sky,
And the Imperial Sun that scatters down
His sovereign splendors upon grove and town.
Ye do not answer us! ye do not hear!
We are forgotten; and in your austere
And calm indifference, ye little care
Whether we come or go, or whence or where.
What passing generations fill these halls,
What passing voices echo from these walls,
Ye heed not; we are only as the blast,
A moment heard, and then forever past.
Not so the teachers who in earlier days
Led our bewildered feet through learning's maze;
They answer us- alas! what have I said?
What greetings come there from the voiceless dead?
What salutation, welcome, or reply?
What pressure from the hands that lifeless lie?
They are no longer here; they all are gone
Into the land of shadows,- all save one.
Honor and reverence, and the good repute
That follows faithful service as its fruit,
Be unto him, whom living we salute.
The great Italian poet, when he made
His dreadful journey to the realms of shade,
Met there the old instructor of his youth,
And cried in tones of pity and of ruth:
'Oh, never from the memory of my heart
Your dear, paternal image shall depart,
Who while on earth, ere yet by death surprised,
Taught me how mortals are immortalized;
How grateful am I for that patient care
All my life long my language shall declare.'
To-day we make the poet's words our own,
And utter them in plaintive undertone;
Nor to the living only be they said,
But to the other living called the dead,
Whose dear, paternal images appear
Not wrapped in gloom, but robed in sunshine here;
Whose simple lives, complete and without flaw,
Were part and parcel of great Nature's law;
Who said not to their Lord, as if afraid,
'Here is thy talent in a napkin laid,'
But labored in their sphere, as men who live
In the delight that work alone can give.
Peace be to them; eternal peace and rest,
And the fulfilment of the great behest:
'Ye have been faithful over a few things,
Over ten cities shall ye reign as kings.'
And ye who fill the places we once filled,
And follow in the furrows that we tilled,
Young men, whose generous hearts are beating high,
We who are old, and are about to die,
Salute you; hail you; take your hands in ours,
And crown you with our welcome as with flowers!
How beautiful is youth! how bright it gleams
With its illusions, aspirations, dreams!
Book of Beginnings, Story without End,
Each maid a heroine, and each man a friend!
Aladdin's Lamp, and Fortunatus' Purse,
That holds the treasures of the universe!
All possibilities are in its hands,
No danger daunts it, and no foe withstands;
In its sublime audacity of faith,
'Be thou removed! ' it to the mountain saith,
And with ambitious feet, secure and proud,
Ascends the ladder leaning on the cloud!
As ancient Priam at the Scæan gate
Sat on the walls of Troy in regal state
With the old men, too old and weak to fight,
Chirping like grasshoppers in their delight
To see the embattled hosts, with spear and shield,
Of Trojans and Achaians in the field;
So from the snowy summits of our years
We see you in the plain, as each appears,
And question of you; asking, 'Who is he
That towers above the others? Which may be
Atreides, Menelaus, Odysseus,
Ajax the great, or bold Idomeneus? '
Let him not boast who puts his armor on
As he who puts it off, the battle done.
Study yourselves; and most of all note well
Wherein kind Nature meant you to excel.
Not every blossom ripens into fruit;
Minerva, the inventress of the flute,
Flung it aside, when she her face surveyed
Distorted in a fountain as she played;
The unlucky Marsyas found it, and his fate
Was one to make the bravest hesitate.
Write on your doors the saying wise and old,
'Be bold! be bold! ' and everywhere, 'Be bold;
Be not too bold! ' Yet better the excess
Than the defect; better the more than less;
Better like Hector in the field to die,
Than like a perfumed Paris turn and fly.
And now, my classmates; ye remaining few
That number not the half of those we knew,
Ye, against whose familiar names not yet
The fatal asterisk of death is set,
Ye I salute! The horologe of Time
Strikes the half-century with a solemn chime,
And summons us together once again,
The joy of meeting not unmixed with pain.
Where are the others? Voices from the deep
Caverns of darkness answer me: 'They sleep! '
I name no names; instinctively I feel
Each at some well-remembered grave will kneel,
And from the inscription wipe the weeds and moss,
For every heart best knoweth its own loss.
I see their scattered gravestones gleaming white
Through the pale dusk of the impending night;
O'er all alike the impartial sunset throws
Its golden lilies mingled with the rose;
We give to each a tender thought, and pass
Out of the graveyards with their tangled grass,
Unto these scenes frequented by our feet
When we were young, and life was fresh and sweet.
What shall I say to you? What can I say
Better than silence is? When I survey
This throng of faces turned to meet my own,
Friendly and fair, and yet to me unknown,
Transformed the very landscape seems to be;
It is the same, yet not the same to me.
So many memories crowd upon my brain,
So many ghosts are in the wooded plain,
I fain would steal away, with noiseless tread,
As from a house where some one lieth dead.
I cannot go; - I pause; - I hesitate;
My feet reluctant linger at the gate;
As one who struggles in a troubled dream
To speak and cannot, to myself I seem.
Vanish the dream! Vanish the idle fears!
Vanish the rolling mists of fifty years!
Whatever time or space may intervene,
I will not be a stranger in this scene.
Here every doubt, all indecision, ends;
Hail, my companions, comrades, classmates, friends!
Ah me! the fifty years since last we met
Seem to me fifty folios bound and set
By Time, the great transcriber, on his shelves,
Wherein are written the histories of ourselves.
What tragedies, what comedies, are there;
What joy and grief, what rapture and despair!
What chronicles of triumph and defeat,
Of struggle, and temptation, and retreat!
What records of regrets, and doubts, and fears!
What pages blotted, blistered by our tears!
What lovely landscapes on the margin shine,
What sweet, angelic faces, what divine
And holy images of love and trust,
Undimmed by age, unsoiled by damp or dust!
Whose hand shall dare to open and explore
These volumes, closed and clasped forevermore?
Not mine. With reverential feet I pass;
I hear a voice that cries, 'Alas! alas!
Whatever hath been written shall remain,
Nor be erased nor written o'er again;
The unwritten only still belongs to thee:
Take heed, and ponder well what that shall be.'
As children frightened by a thunder-cloud
Are reassured if some one reads aloud
A tale of wonder, with enchantment fraught,
Or wild adventure, that diverts their thought,
Let me endeavor with a tale to chase
The gathering shadows of the time and place,
And banish what we all too deeply feel
Wholly to say, or wholly to conceal.
In mediæval Rome, I know not where,
There stood an image with its arm in air,
And on its lifted finger, shining clear,
A golden ring with the device, 'Strike here! '
Greatly the people wondered, though none guessed
The meaning that these words but half expressed,
Until a learned clerk, who at noonday
With downcast eyes was passing on his way,
Paused, and observed the spot, and marked it well,
Whereon the shadow of the finger fell;
And, coming back at midnight, delved, and found
A secret stairway leading underground.
Down this he passed into a spacious hall,
Lit by a flaming jewel on the wall;
And opposite, in threatening attitude,
With bow and shaft a brazen statue stood.
Upon its forehead, like a coronet,
Were these mysterious words of menace set:
'That which I am, I am; my fatal aim
None can escape, not even yon luminous flame! '
Midway the hall was a fair table placed,
With cloth of gold, and golden cups enchased
With rubies, and the plates and knives were gold,
And gold the bread and viands manifold.
Around it, silent, motionless, and sad,
Were seated gallant knights in armor clad,
And ladies beautiful with plume and zone,
But they were stone, their hearts within were stone;
And the vast hall was filled in every part
With silent crowds, stony in face and heart.
Long at the scene, bewildered and amazed
The trembling clerk in speechless wonder gazed;
Then from the table, by his greed made bold,
He seized a goblet and a knife of gold,
And suddenly from their seats the guests upsprang,
The vaulted ceiling with loud clamors rang,
The archer sped his arrow, at their call,
Shattering the lambent jewel on the wall,
And all was dark around and overhead; -
Stark on the floor the luckless clerk lay dead!
The writer of this legend then records
Its ghostly application in these words:
The image is the Adversary old,
Whose beckoning finger points to realms of gold;
Our lusts and passions are the downward stair
That leads the soul from a diviner air;
The archer, Death; the flaming jewel, Life;
Terrestrial goods, the goblet and the knife;
The knights and ladies, all whose flesh and bone
By avarice have been hardened into stone;
The clerk, the scholar whom the love of pelf
Tempts from his books and from his nobler self.
The scholar and the world! The endless strife,
The discord in the harmonies of life!
The love of learning, the sequestered nooks,
And all the sweet serenity of books;
The market-place, the eager love of gain,
Whose aim is vanity, and whose end is pain!
But why, you ask me, should this tale be told
To men grown old, or who are growing old?
It is too late! Ah, nothing is too late
Till the tired heart shall cease to palpitate.
Cato learned Greek at eighty; Sophocles
Wrote his grand Oedipus, and Simonides
Bore off the prize of verse from his compeers,
When each had numbered more than fourscore years,
And Theophrastus, at fourscore and ten,
Had but begun his 'Characters of Men.'
Chaucer, at Woodstock with the nightingales,
At sixty wrote the Canterbury Tales;
Goethe at Weimar, toiling to the last,
Completed Faust when eighty years were past.
These are indeed exceptions; but they show
How far the gulf-stream of our youth may flow
Into the arctic regions of our lives,
Where little else than life itself survives.
As the barometer foretells the storm
While still the skies are clear, the weather warm
So something in us, as old age draws near,
Betrays the pressure of the atmosphere.
The nimble mercury, ere we are aware,
Descends the elastic ladder of the air;
The telltale blood in artery and vein
Sinks from its higher levels in the brain;
Whatever poet, orator, or sage
May say of it, old age is still old age.
It is the waning, not the crescent moon;
The dusk of evening, not the blaze of noon;
It is not strength, but weakness; not desire,
But its surcease; not the fierce heat of fire,
The burning and consuming element,
But that of ashes and of embers spent,
In which some living sparks we still discern,
Enough to warm, but not enough to burn.
What then? Shall we sit idly down and say
The night hath come; it is no longer day?
The night hath not yet come; we are not quite
Cut off from labor by the failing light;
Something remains for us to do or dare;
Even the oldest tree some fruit may bear;
Not Oedipus Coloneus, or Greek Ode,
Or tales of pilgrims that one morning rode
Out of the gateway of the Tabard Inn,
But other something, would we but begin;
For age is opportunity no less
Than youth itself, though in another dress,
And as the evening twilight fades away
The sky is filled with stars, invisible by day.
There is nothing to be afraid of,
it is only the wind
changing to the east, it is only
your father the thunder
your mother the rain
In this country of water
with its beige moon damp as a mushroom,
its drowned stumps and long birds
that swim, where the moss grows
on all sides of the trees
and your shadow is not your shadow
but your reflection,
your true parents disappear
when the curtain covers your door.
We are the others,
the ones from under the lake
who stand silently beside your bed
with our heads of darkness.
We have come to cover you
with red wool,
with our tears and distant whipers.
You rock in the rain's arms
the chilly ark of your sleep,
while we wait, your night
father and mother
with our cold hands and dead flashlight,
knowing we are only
the wavering shadows thrown
by one candle, in this echo
you will hear twenty years later.
The light along the hills in the morning
comes down slowly, naming the trees
white, then coasting the ground for stones to nominate.
Notice what this poem is not doing.
A house, a house, a barn, the old
quarry, where the river shrugs--
how much of this place is yours?
Notice what this poem is not doing.
Every person gone has taken a stone
to hold, and catch the sun. The carving
says, "Not here, but called away."
Notice what this poem is not doing.
The sun, the earth, the sky, all wait.
The crowns and redbirds talk. The light
along the hills has come, has found you.
Notice what this poem has not done.
I
His simple truths did Andrew glean
Beside the babbling rills;
A careful student he had been
Among the woods and hills.
One winter's night, when through the trees
The wind was roaring, on his knees
His youngest born did Andrew hold:
And while the rest, a ruddy quire,
Were seated round their blazing fire,
This Tale the Shepherd told.
II
"I saw a crag, a lofty stone
As ever tempest beat!
Out of its head an Oak had grown,
A Broom out of its feet.
The time was March, a cheerful noon--
The thaw-wind, with the breath of June,
Breathed gently from the warm south-west:
When, in a voice sedate with age,
This Oak, a giant and a sage,
His neighbour thus addressed:--
III
"'Eight weary weeks, through rock and clay,
Along this mountain's edge,
The Frost hath wrought both night and day,
Wedge driving after wedge.
Look up! and think, above your head
What trouble, surely, will be bred;
Last night I heard a crash--'tis true,
The splinters took another road--
I see them yonder--what a load
For such a Thing as you!
IV
"'You are preparing as before,
To deck your slender shape;
And yet, just three years back--no more--
You had a strange escape:
Down from yon cliff a fragment broke;
It thundered down, with fire and smoke,
And hitherward pursued its way;
This ponderous block was caught by me,
And o'er your head, as you may see,
'Tis hanging to this day!
V
"'If breeze or bird to this rough steep
Your kind's first seed did bear;
The breeze had better been asleep,
The bird caught in a snare:
For you and your green twigs decoy
The little witless shepherd-boy
To come and slumber in your bower;
And, trust me, on some sultry noon,
Both you and he, Heaven knows how soon!
Will perish in one hour.
VI
"'From me this friendly warning take'--
The Broom began to doze,
And thus, to keep herself awake,
Did gently interpose:
'My thanks for your discourse are due;
That more than what you say is true,
I know, and I have known it long;
Frail is the bond by which we hold
Our being, whether young or old,
Wise, foolish, weak, or strong.
VII
"'Disasters, do the best we can,
Will reach both great and small;
And he is oft the wisest man,
Who is not wise at all.
For me, why should I wish to roam?
This spot is my paternal home,
It is my pleasant heritage;
My father many a happy year,
Spread here his careless blossoms, here
Attained a good old age.
VIII
"'Even such as his may be my lot.
What cause have I to haunt
My heart with terrors? Am I not
In truth a favoured plant!
On me such bounty Summer pours,
That I am covered o'er with flowers;
And, when the Frost is in the sky,
My branches are so fresh and gay
That you might look at me and say,
This Plant can never die.
IX
"'The butterfly, all green and gold,
To me hath often flown,
Here in my blossoms to behold
Wings lovely as his own.
When grass is chill with rain or dew,
Beneath my shade, the mother-ewe
Lies with her infant lamb; I see
The love they to each other make,
And the sweet joy which they partake,
It is a joy to me.'
X
"Her voice was blithe, her heart was light;
The Broom might have pursued
Her speech, until the stars of night
Their journey had renewed;
But in the branches of the oak
Two ravens now began to croak
Their nuptial song, a gladsome air;
And to her own green bower the breeze
That instant brought two stripling bees
To rest, or murmur there.
XI
"One night, my Children! from the north
There came a furious blast;
At break of day I ventured forth,
And near the cliff I passed.
The storm had fallen upon the Oak,
And struck him with a mighty stroke,
And whirled, and whirled him far away;
And, in one hospitable cleft,
The little careless Broom was left
To live for many a day."
I THINK it better that in times like these
A poet's mouth be silent, for in truth
We have no gift to set a statesman right;
He has had enough of medding who can please
A young girl in the indolence of her youth,
Or an old man upon a winter's night.
My left hand will live longer than my right. The rivers
of my palms tell me so.
Never argue with rivers. Never expect your lives to finish
at the same time. I think
praying, I think clapping is how hands mourn. I think
staying up and waiting
for paintings to sigh is science. In another dimension this
is exactly what's happening,
it's what they write grants about: the chromodynamics
of mournful Whistlers,
the audible sorrow and beta decay of Old Battersea Bridge.
I like the idea of different
theres and elsewheres, an Idaho known for bluegrass,
a Bronx where people talk
like violets smell. Perhaps I am somewhere patient, somehow
kind, perhaps in the nook
of a cousin universe I've never defiled or betrayed
anyone. Here I have
two hands and they are vanishing, the hollow of your back
to rest my cheek against,
your voice and little else but my assiduous fear to cherish.
My hands are webbed
like the wind-torn work of a spider, like they squeezed
something in the womb
but couldn't hang on. One of those other worlds
or a life I felt
passing through mine, or the ocean inside my mother's belly
she had to scream out.
Here, when I say I never want to be without you,
somewhere else I am saying
I never want to be without you again. And when I touch you
in each of the places we meet,
in all of the lives we are, it's with hands that are dying
and resurrected.
When I don't touch you it's a mistake in any life,
in each place and forever.
The dew was falling fast, the stars began to blink;
I heard a voice; it said, "Drink, pretty creature, drink!"
And, looking o'er the hedge, before me I espied
A snow-white mountain-lamb with a Maiden at its side.
Nor sheep nor kine were near; the lamb was all alone,
And by a slender cord was tethered to a stone;
With one knee on the grass did the little Maiden kneel,
While to that mountain-lamb she gave its evening meal.
The lamb, while from her hand he thus his supper took,
Seemed to feast with head and ears; and his tail with pleasure
shook.
"Drink, pretty creature, drink," she said in such a tone
That I almost received her heart into my own.
'Twas little Barbara Lewthwaite, a child of beauty rare!
I watched them with delight, they were a lovely pair.
Now with her empty can the Maiden turned away:
But ere ten yards were gone her footsteps did she stay.
Right towards the lamb she looked; and from a shady place
I unobserved could see the workings of her face:
If Nature to her tongue could measured numbers bring,
Thus, thought I, to her lamb that little Maid might sing:
"What ails thee, young One? what? Why pull so at thy cord?
Is it not well with thee? well both for bed and board?
Thy plot of grass is soft, and green as grass can be;
Rest, little young One, rest; what is't that aileth thee?
"What is it thou wouldst seek? What is wanting to thy heart?
Thy limbs are they not strong? And beautiful thou art:
This grass is tender grass; these flowers they have no peers;
And that green corn all day is rustling in thy ears!
"If the sun be shining hot, do but stretch thy woollen chain,
This beech is standing by, its covert thou canst gain;
For rain and mountain-storms! the like thou need'st not fear,
The rain and storm are things that scarcely can come here.
"Rest, little young One, rest; thou hast forgot the day
When my father found thee first in places far away;
Many flocks were on the hills, but thou wert owned by none,
And thy mother from thy side for evermore was gone.
"He took thee in his arms, and in pity brought thee home:
A blessed day for thee! then whither wouldst thou roam?
A faithful nurse thou hast; the dam that did thee yean
Upon the mountain-tops no kinder could have been.
"Thou know'st that twice a day I have brought thee in this can
Fresh water from the brook, as clear as ever ran;
And twice in the day, when the ground is wet with dew,
I bring thee draughts of milk, warm milk it is and new.
"Thy limbs will shortly be twice as stout as they are now,
Then I'll yoke thee to my cart like a pony in the plough;
My playmate thou shalt be; and when the wind is cold
Our hearth shall be thy bed, our house shall be thy fold.
"It will not, will not rest!--Poor creature, can it be
That 'tis thy mother's heart which is working so in thee?
Things that I know not of belike to thee are dear,
And dreams of things which thou canst neither see nor hear.
"Alas, the mountain-tops that look so green and fair!
I've heard of fearful winds and darkness that come there;
The little brooks that seem all pastime and all play,
When they are angry, roar like lions for their prey.
"Here thou need'st not dread the raven in the sky;
Night and day thou art safe,--our cottage is hard by.
Why bleat so after me? Why pull so at thy chain?
Sleep--and at break of day I will come to thee again!"
--As homeward through the lane I went with lazy feet,
This song to myself did I oftentimes repeat;
And it seemed, as I retraced the ballad line by line,
That but half of it was hers, and one half of it was 'mine'.
Again, and once again, did I repeat the song;
"Nay," said I, "more than half to the damsel must belong,
For she looked with such a look and she spake with such a tone,
That I almost received her heart into my own."
LEt no lamenting cryes, nor dolefull teares,
Be heard all night within nor yet without:
Ne let false whispers breeding hidden feares,
Breake gentle sleepe with misconceiued dout.
Let no deluding dreames, nor dreadful sights
Make sudden sad affrights;
Ne let housefyres, nor lightnings helpelesse harmes,
Ne led the Ponke, nor other euill sprights,
Ne let mischiuous witches with theyr charmes,
Ne let hob Goblins, names whose sence we see not,
Fray vs with things that be not.
Let not the shriech Oule, nor the Storke be heard:
Nor the night Rauen that still deadly yels,
Nor damned ghosts cald vp with mighty spels,
Nor griefly vultures make vs once affeard:
Ne let th'unpleasant Quyre of Frogs still croking
Make vs to wish theyr choking.
Let none of these theyr drery accents sing;
Ne let the woods them answer, nor theyr eccho ring.
YE learned sisters which haue oftentimes
beene to me ayding, others to adorne:
Whom ye thought worthy of your gracefull rymes,
That euen the greatest did not greatly scorne
To heare theyr names sung in your simply layes,
But ioyed in theyr prayse.
And when ye lift your owne mishaps to mourne,
Which death, or loue, or fortunes wreck did rayse,
Your string could soone to sadder tenor turne,
And teach the woods and waters to lament
Your dolefull dreriment.
Now lay those sorrowfull complaints aside,
And hauing all your heads with girland crownd,
Helpe me mine owne loues prayses to resound,
Ne let the same of any be enuide,
So Orpheus did for his owne bride,
So I vnto my selfe alone will sing,
The woods shall to me answer and my Eccho ring.
WHo is the same, which at my window peepes?
Or whose is that faire face, that shines so bright,
Is it not Cinthia, she that neuer sleepes,
But walkes about high heauen al the night?
O fayrest goddesse, do thou not enuy
My loue with me to spy:
For thou likewise didst loue, though now vnthought,
And for a fleece of woll, which priuily,
The Latmian shephard once vnto thee brought,
His pleasures with thee wrought,
Therefore to vs be fauorable now;
And sith of wemens labours thou hast charge,
And generation goodly dost enlarge,
Encline they will t'effect our wishfull vow,
And the chast wombe informe with timely seed,
That may our comfort breed:
Till which we cease our hopefull hap to sing,
Ne let the woods vs answere, nor our Eccho ring.
SOng made in lieu of many ornaments,
With which my loue should duly haue bene dect,
Which cutting off through hasty accidents,
Ye would not stay your dew time to expect,
But promist both to recompens,
Be vnto her a goodly ornament,
And for short time an endlesse moniment.
LOe where she comes along with portly pace,
Lyke Phoebe from her chamber of the East,
Arysing forth to run her mighty race,
Clad all in white, that seemes a virgin best.
So well it her beseemes that ye would weene
Some angell she had beene.
Her long loose yellow locks lyke golden wyre,
Sprinckled with perle, and perling flowres a tweene,
Doe lyke a golden mantle her attyre,
And being crowned with a girland greene,
Seeme lyke some mayden Queene,
Her modest eyes abashed to behold
So many gazers, as on her do stare,
Vpon the lowly ground affixed are.
Ne dare lift vp her countenance too bold,
But blush to heare her prayses sung so loud,
So farre from being proud.
Nathlesse doe ye still loud her prayses sing,
That all the woods may answer and your eccho ring.
As the cat
climbed over
the top of
the jamcloset
first the right
forefoot
carefully
then the hind
stepped down
into the pit of
the empty
flowerpot
Anonymous submission.
'My age, my beast!' - Osip Mandelstam
On the lips a taste of tolling we are blind
The light drifts like dust over faces
We wear masks on our genitals
You've heard of lighting cigarettes with banknotes we used to light ours with Jews
History is made of bricks you can't go through it
And bricks are made of bones and blood and
Bones and blood are made of little tiny circles that nothing can go through Except a piano with rabies
Blood gushes into, not from, our wounds
Vietnamese Cuban African bloods
Constellations of sperm upon our bodies
Drunk as dogs before our sons
The bearded foetus lines up at the evolution-trough
Swarmy bloods in the rabid piano
The air over Chicago is death's monogram
This is the Were-Age rushing past
Speed: 10,000 men per minute
This is the species bred of death
The manshriek of flesh
The lifeless sparks of flesh
Covering the deep drums of vision
O new era race-wars jugular-lightning
Dark glance bursting from the over-ripe future
Know we are not the smilelines of dreams
Nor the pores of the Invisible
Piano with rabies we are victorious over
The drum and the wind-chime
We bite back a voice that might have emerged
To tame these dead bodies aid wet ashes
Poem Faithful to your commands, o consciousness, o
Beating wings, I studied
the roses and the muses of reality,
the deceptions and the deceptive elation of the redness of the growing morning,
and all the greened and thomed variety of the vines of error, which begin by promising
Everything and more than everything, and then suddenly,
At the height of noon seem to rise to the peak or dune-like moon of no return
So that everything is or seems to have become nothing, or of no genuine importance:
And it is not that the departure of hope or its sleep has made it inconceivable
That anything should be or should have been important:
It is the belief that hope itself was not, from the beginning,
before believing, the most important of all beliefs.
She asks me
What is a poem?
Her shapely nose,
Her lips like two slices of water melon,
Her eyes reflecting clear blue sky,
Her thick hair like dark grey clouds,
Her horizon-like forehead
Are poems.
Frolicking of children,
Gossiping old women,
Cheering buddies gathered to spend an evening together,
Waiting travellers with carry-on bags in hand,
Strolling couples in a park,  picnickers,
Are all features of a poem.
Lively sunlight warming the sanitorium stairs,
A nude poster,
A gypsy girl,
Are poems.
Ramble through a wonderland,
Laughter at an amusement park,
Still blue lake,
Scream of herons slipping on the rocks,
Thunder of a water fall,
Symphony of four seasons,
Song of pure rains,
Silent hunch of rainbow, arching over all,
Are poems.
Children of Bosnia
All are words of a poem.
Prior to gang rape
Women were preambles to poems,
Now they are complete poems.
Suppressed scream of a prisoner
In torture chamber
Is also a poem.
The blood ablaze
In the snow clad valley of Kashmir
Is fast becoming a poem.
Death of the starving in Somalia is a poem.
Coffin of the peace keeping soldier
Is a real-life poem.
She asks me, what is a poem?
Shall I tell her
That her poem inscribing fingers are too a poem
And her handwriting,
Her handsome portrait,
Her brown sandal
Even destiny under her feet
Are a poem.
She knows!
She is a poem to me clad in mauve.
Still she asks me
What is a poem?
(1992, Translated from Urdu by Samina Amjad, Translation reviewed by Lillian Thomas)
Tell me:
What came first
Easter or the egg?
Crucifixion
&n bsp;    or daffodils?
Three days in a tomb
;  or four days
in Paris?
&nb sp;  (returning
Bank Holiday Monday).
When is a door
not a door?
When it is rolled away.
When is a body
not a body?
When it is a risen.
Question.
Why was it the Saviour rode on the cross?
Answer.
To get us
to the other side.
Behold I stand.
Behold I stand and what?
Behold I stand at the door and
knock knock.
Dipping our bread in oil tins
we talked of morning peeling
open our rooms to a moment
of almonds, olives and wind
when we did not yet know what we were.
The days in Mallorca were alike:
footprints down goat-paths
from the beds we had left,
at night the stars locked to darkness.
At that time we were learning
to dance, take our clothes
in our fingers and open
ourselves to their hands.
The veranera was with us.
For a month the almond trees bloomed,
their droppings the delicate silks
we removed when each time a touch
took us closer to the window where
we whispered yes, there on the intricate
balconies of breath, overlooking
the rest of our lives.
To end up alone
in a tomb of a room
without cigarettes
or wine--
just a lightbulb
and a potbelly,
grayhaired,
and glad to have
the room.
SAY not the Poet dies!
Though in the dust he lies,
He cannot forfeit his melodious breath,
Unsphered by envious death!
Life drops the voiceless myriads from its roll;
Their fate he cannot share,
Who, in the enchanted air
Sweet with the lingering strains that Echo stole,
Has left his dearer self, the music of his soul!
We o'er his turf may raise
Our notes of feeble praise,
And carve with pious care for after eyes
The stone with "Here he lies;"
He for himself has built a nobler shrine,
Whose walls of stately rhyme
Roll back the tides of time,
While o'er their gates the gleaming tablets shine
That wear his name inwrought with many a golden line!
Call not our Poet dead,
Though on his turf we tread!
Green is the wreath their brows so long have worn,--
The minstrels of the morn,
Who, while the Orient burned with new-born flame,
Caught that celestial fire
And struck a Nation's lyre!
These taught the western winds the poet's name;
Theirs the first opening buds, the maiden flowers of fame!
Count not our Poet dead!
The stars shall watch his bed,
The rose of June its fragrant life renew
His blushing mound to strew,
And all the tuneful throats of summer swell
With trills as crystal-clear
As when he wooed the ear
Of the young muse that haunts each wooded dell,
With songs of that "rough land" he loved so long and well!
He sleeps; he cannot die!
As evening's long-drawn sigh,
Lifting the rose-leaves on his peaceful mound,
Spreads all their sweets around,
So, laden with his song, the breezes blow
From where the rustling sedge
Frets our rude ocean's edge
To the smooth sea beyond the peaks of snow.
His soul the air enshrines and leaves but dust below!
Hate is only one of many responses
true, hurt and hate go hand in hand
but why be afraid of hate, it is only there
think of filth, is it really awesome
neither is hate
don't be shy of unkindness, either
it's cleansing and allows you to be direct
like an arrow that feels something
out and out meanness, too, lets love breathe
you don't have to fight off getting in too deep
you can always get out if you're not too scared
an ounce of prevention's
enough to poison the heart
don't think of others
until you have thought of yourself, are true
all of these things, if you feel them
will be graced by a certain reluctance
and turn into gold
if felt by me, will be smilingly deflected
by your mysterious concern
The Poem Hunter Beach,
Exists under beech.
In every young's hand,
In every pal's reach.
In each senile hand,
In every gal's reach.
If he wishes to learn,
If she wishes to teach.
Freedom of silence,
And freedom of speech.
It sucks poets' blood,
As an extending leech.
It was my thirtieth year to heaven
Woke to my hearing from harbour and neighbour wood
And the mussel pooled and the heron
Priested shore
The morning beckon
With water praying and call of seagull and rook
And the knock of sailing boats on the net webbed wall
Myself to set foot
That second
In the still sleeping town and set forth.
My birthday began with the water-
Birds and the birds of the winged trees flying my name
Above the farms and the white horses
And I rose
In rainy autumn
And walked abroad in a shower of all my days.
High tide and the heron dived when I took the road
Over the border
And the gates
Of the town closed as the town awoke.
A springful of larks in a rolling
Cloud and the roadside bushes brimming with whistling
Blackbirds and the sun of October
Summery
On the hill's shoulder,
Here were fond climates and sweet singers suddenly
Come in the morning where I wandered and listened
To the rain wringing
Wind blow cold
In the wood faraway under me.
Pale rain over the dwindling harbour
And over the sea wet church the size of a snail
With its horns through mist and the castle
Brown as owls
But all the gardens
Of spring and summer were blooming in the tall tales
Beyond the border and under the lark full cloud.
There could I marvel
My birthday
Away but the weather turned around.
It turned away from the blithe country
And down the other air and the blue altered sky
Streamed again a wonder of summer
With apples
Pears and red currants
And I saw in the turning so clearly a child's
Forgotten mornings when he walked with his mother
Through the parables
Of sun light
And the legends of the green chapels
And the twice told fields of infancy
That his tears burned my cheeks and his heart moved in mine.
These were the woods the river and sea
Where a boy
In the listening
Summertime of the dead whispered the truth of his joy
To the trees and the stones and the fish in the tide.
And the mystery
Sang alive
Still in the water and singingbirds.
And there could I marvel my birthday
Away but the weather turned around. And the true
Joy of the long dead child sang burning
In the sun.
It was my thirtieth
Year to heaven stood there then in the summer noon
Though the town below lay leaved with October blood.
O may my heart's truth
Still be sung
On this high hill in a year's turning.
if there is a river
more beautiful than this
bright as the blood
red edge of the moon if
there is a river
more faithful than this
returning each month
to the same delta if there
is a river
braver than this
coming and coming in a surge
of passion, of pain if there is
a river
more ancient than this
daughter of eve
mother of cain and of abel if there is in
the universe such a river if
there is some where water
more powerful than this wild
water
pray that it flows also
through animals
beautiful and faithful and ancient
and female and brave
This poem is for my wife.
I have made it plainly and honestly:
The mark is on it
Like the burl on the knife.
I have not made it for praise.
She has no more need for praise
Than summer has
Or the bright days.
In all that becomes a woman
Her words and her ways are beautiful:
Love's lovely duty,
the well-swept room.
Wherever she is there is sun
And time and a sweet air:
Peace is there,
Work done.
There are always curtains and flowers
And candles and baked bread
And a cloth spread
And a clean house.
Her voice when she sings is a voice
At dawn by a freshening spring
Where the wave leaps in the wind
And rejoices.
Wherever she is it is now.
It is here where the apples are:
Here in the stars,
In the quick hour.
The greatest and richest good,
My own life to live in,
This she has given me --
If giver could.
In the morning, when it was raining,
Then the birds were hectic and loudy;
Through all the reign is fall's entertaining;
Their singing was erratic and full of disorder:
They did not remember the summer blue
Or the orange of June. They did not think at all
Of the great red and bursting ball
Of the kingly sun's terror and tempest, blazing,
Once the slanting rain threw over all
The colorless curtains of the ceaseless spontaneous fall.
Lana Turner has collapsed!
I was trotting along and suddenly
it started raining and snowing
and you said it was hailing
but hailing hits you on the head
hard so it was really snowing and
raining and I was in such a hurry
to meet you but the traffic
was acting exactly like the sky
and suddenly I see a headline
LANA TURNER HAS COLLAPSED!
there is no snow in Hollywood
there is no rain in California
I have been to lots of parties
and acted perfectly disgraceful
but I never actually collapsed
oh Lana Turner we love you get up
1
I move my hand over
slopes, falls, lumps of sight,
Lashes barely able to be touched,
Lips that give way so easily
it's a shock to feel underneath them
The bones smile.
Muffled a little, barely cloaked,
Zygoma, maxillary, turbinate.
2
I put my hand
On the side of your face,
You lean your head a little
Into my hand--and so,
I know you're a dormouse
Taken up in winter sleep,
A lonely, stunned weight.
3
A cheekbone,
A curved piece of brow,
A pale eyelid
Float in the dark,
And now I make out
An eye, dark,
Wormed with far-off, unaccountable lights.
4
Hardly touching, I hold
What I can only think of
As some deepest of memories in my arms,
Not mine, but as if the life in me
Were slowly remembering what it is.
You lie here now in your physicalness,
This beautiful degree of reality.
5
And now the day, raft that breaks up, comes on.
I think of a few bones
Floating on a river at night,
The starlight blowing in a place on the water,
The river leaning like a wave towards the emptiness.
YOU just maturing youth! You male or female!
Remember the organic compact of These States,
Remember the pledge of the Old Thirteen thenceforward to the rights,
life, liberty, equality of man,
Remember what was promulged by the founders, ratified by The States,
signed in black and white by the Commissioners, and read by
Washington at the head of the army,
Remember the purposes of the founders,--Remember Washington;
Remember the copious humanity streaming from every direction toward
America;
Remember the hospitality that belongs to nations and men; (Cursed be
nation, woman, man, without hospitality!)
Remember, government is to subserve individuals,
Not any, not the President, is to have one jot more than you or me,
Not any habitan of America is to have one jot less than you or me. 10
Anticipate when the thirty or fifty millions, are to become the
hundred, or two hundred millions, of equal freemen and
freewomen, amicably joined.
Recall ages--One age is but a part--ages are but a part;
The eternal equilibrium of things is great, and the eternal overthrow
of things is great,
And there is another paradox.
Recall the angers, bickerings, delusions, superstitions, of the idea
of caste,
Recall the bloody cruelties and crimes.
Anticipate the best women;
I say an unnumbered new race of hardy and well-defined women are to
spread through all These States,
I say a girl fit for These States must be free, capable, dauntless,
just the same as a boy.
Anticipate your own life--retract with merciless power,
Shirk nothing--retract in time--Do you see those errors, diseases,
weaknesses, lies, thefts?
Do you see that lost character?--Do you see decay, consumption, rum-
drinking, dropsy, fever, mortal cancer or inflammation?      20
Do you see death, and the approach of death?
Poem Hunter pretty queen rules this site,
Every poet writes poem with lovely light.
Every reader waits to read poem of the day,
Artist can bring life from far unseen clay.
I will not cry because love gives pure kiss,
Who first time kissed, we never again miss.
Hot poems, new poems and five hundreds top,
Popular poets and popular members give pop.
Poetic pop in sweetness hops from poetry to joy,
Poems are amazing even loves to read little boy.
Manage your poems oh poet, you are the editor,
To this bank of poems every reader is creditor.
Take part in poetry contest through quick link,
In each page of this universe you drop your ink.
Welcome to Poem Hunter from each nice nation,
Oh dear poets, we unite for peace in this station.
Donation of poems you do to this pretty bank,
Rank of yours is high oh dear poets, we thank.
Reading this new poem of the day you will say,
It is written in eighteenth on fourth day of May.
Pay you attention; we pay tribute to you in day,
We are praying God for your fortune in light ray.
The world is wonder, Poem Hunter is wonder,
Every poem of each day brings calm thunder.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,04 May 2018. All rights reserved.
Old man in the crystal morning after snow,
Your throat swathed in a muffler, your bent
Figure building the snow man which is meant
For the grandchild's target,
do you know
This fat cartoon, his eyes pocked in with coal
Nears you each time your breath smokes the air,
Lewdly grinning out of a private nightmare?
He is the white cold shadow of your soul.
You build his comic head, you place his comic hat;
Old age is not so serious, and I
By the window sad and watchful as a cat,
Build to this poem of old age and of snow,
And weep: you are my snow man and I know
I near you, you near him, all of us must die.
In the mustardseed sun,
By full tilt river and switchback sea
Where the cormorants scud,
In his house on stilts high among beaks
And palavers of birds
This sandgrain day in the bent bay's grave
He celebrates and spurns
His driftwood thirty-fifth wind turned age;
Herons spire and spear.
Under and round him go
Flounders, gulls, on their cold, dying trails,
Doing what they are told,
Curlews aloud in the congered waves
Work at their ways to death,
And the rhymer in the long tongued room,
Who tolls his birthday bell,
Toesl towards the ambush of his wounds;
Herons, stepple stemmed, bless.
In the thistledown fall,
He sings towards anguish; finches fly
In the claw tracks of hawks
On a seizing sky; small fishes glide
Through wynds and shells of drowned
Ship towns to pastures of otters. He
In his slant, racking house
And the hewn coils of his trade perceives
Herons walk in their shroud,
The livelong river's robe
Of minnows wreathing around their prayer;
And far at sea he knows,
Who slaves to his crouched, eternal end
Under a serpent cloud,
Dolphins dyive in their turnturtle dust,
The rippled seals streak down
To kill and their own tide daubing blood
Slides good in the sleek mouth.
In a cavernous, swung
Wave's silence, wept white angelus knells.
Thirty-five bells sing struck
On skull and scar where his lovews lie wrecked,
Steered by the falling stars.
And to-morrow weeps in a blind cage
Terror will rage apart
Before chains break to a hammer flame
And love unbolts the dark
And freely he goes lost
In the unknown, famous light of great
And fabulous, dear God.
Dark is a way and light is a place,
Heaven that never was
Nor will be ever is alwas true,
And, in that brambled void,
Plenty as blackberries in the woods
The dead grow for His joy.
There he might wander bare
With the spirits of the horseshoe bay
Or the stars' seashore dead,
Marrow of eagles, the roots of whales
And wishbones of wild geese,
With blessed, unborn God and His Ghost,
And every soul His priest,
Gulled and chanter in youg Heaven's fold
Be at cloud quaking peace,
But dark is a long way.
He, on the earth of the night, alone
With all the living, prays,
Who knows the rocketing wind will blow
The bones out of the hills,
And the scythed boulders bleed, and the last
Rage shattered waters kick
Masts and fishes to the still quick stars,
Faithlessly unto Him
Who is the light of old
And air shaped Heaven where souls grow wild
As horses in the foam:
Oh, let me midlife mourn by the shrined
And druid herons' vows
The voyage to ruin I must run,
Dawn ships clouted aground,
Yet, though I cry with tumbledown tongue,
Count my blessings aloud:
Four elements and five
Senses, and man a spirit in love
Thangling through this spun slime
To his nimbus bell cool kingdom come
And the lost, moonshine domes,
And the sea that hides his secret selves
Deep in its black, base bones,
Lulling of spheres in the seashell flesh,
And this last blessing most,
That the closer I move
To death, one man through his sundered hulks,
The louder the sun blooms
And the tusked, ramshackling sea exults;
And every wave of the way
And gale I tackle, the whole world then,
With more triumphant faith
That ever was since the world was said,
Spins its morning of praise,
I hear the bouncing hills
Grow larked and greener at berry brown
Fall and the dew larks sing
Taller this thuderclap spring, and how
More spanned with angles ride
The mansouled fiery islands! Oh,
Holier then their eyes,
And my shining men no more alone
As I sail out to die
This poem is not addressed to you.
You may come into it briefly,
But no one will find you here, no one.
You will have changed before the poem will.
Even while you sit there, unmovable,
You have begun to vanish. And it does not matter.
The poem will go on without you.
It has the spurious glamor of certain voids.
It is not sad, really, only empty.
Once perhaps it was sad, no one knows why.
It prefers to remember nothing.
Nostalgias were peeled from it long ago.
Your type of beauty has no place here.
Night is the sky over this poem.
It is too black for stars.
And do not look for any illumination.
You neither can nor should understand what it means.
Listen, it comes with out guitar,
Neither in rags nor any purple fashion.
And there is nothing in it to comfort you.
Close your eyes, yawn. It will be over soon.
You will forge the poem, but not before
It has forgotten you. And it does not matter.
It has been most beautiful in its erasures.
O bleached mirrors! Oceans of the drowned!
Nor is one silence equal to another.
And it does not matter what you think.
This poem is not addressed to you.
About the size of an old-style dollar bill,
American or Canadian,
mostly the same whites, gray greens, and steel grays
-this little painting (a sketch for a larger one?)
has never earned any money in its life.
Useless and free., it has spent seventy years
as a minor family relic handed along collaterally to owners
who looked at it sometimes, or didn't bother to.
It must be Nova Scotia; only there
does one see abled wooden houses
painted that awful shade of brown.
The other houses, the bits that show, are white.
Elm trees., low hills, a thin church steeple
-that gray-blue wisp-or is it? In the foreground
a water meadow with some tiny cows,
two brushstrokes each, but confidently cows;
two minuscule white geese in the blue water,
back-to-back,, feeding, and a slanting stick.
Up closer, a wild iris, white and yellow,
fresh-squiggled from the tube.
The air is fresh and cold; cold early spring
clear as gray glass; a half inch of blue sky
below the steel-gray storm clouds.
(They were the artist's specialty.)
A specklike bird is flying to the left.
Or is it a flyspeck looking like a bird?
Heavens, I recognize the place, I know it!
It's behind-I can almost remember the farmer's name.
His barn backed on that meadow. There it is,
titanium white, one dab. The hint of steeple,
filaments of brush-hairs, barely there,
must be the Presbyterian church.
Would that be Miss Gillespie's house?
Those particular geese and cows
are naturally before my time.
A sketch done in an hour, "in one breath,"
once taken from a trunk and handed over.
Would you like this? I'll Probably never
have room to hang these things again.
Your Uncle George, no, mine, my Uncle George,
he'd be your great-uncle, left them all with Mother
when he went back to England.
You know, he was quite famous, an R.A....
I never knew him. We both knew this place,
apparently, this literal small backwater,
looked at it long enough to memorize it,
our years apart. How strange. And it's still loved,
or its memory is (it must have changed a lot).
Our visions coincided-"visions" is
too serious a word-our looks, two looks:
art "copying from life" and life itself,
life and the memory of it so compressed
they've turned into each other. Which is which?
Life and the memory of it cramped,
dim, on a piece of Bristol board,
dim, but how live, how touching in detail
-the little that we get for free,
the little of our earthly trust. Not much.
About the size of our abidance
along with theirs: the munching cows,
the iris, crisp and shivering, the water
still standing from spring freshets,
the yet-to-be-dismantled elms, the geese.
One cannot stay on the summit forever -
One has to come down again.
So why bother in the first place? Just this.
What is above knows what is below -
But what is below does not know what is above
One climb, one sees-
One descends and sees no longer
But one has seen!
There is an art of conducting one's self in
The lower regions by the memory of
What one saw higher up.
When one can no longer see,
One does at least still know.
And if it snowed and snow covered the drive
he took a spade and tossed it to one side.
And always tucked his daughter up at night
And slippered her the one time that she lied.
And every week he tipped up half his wage.
And what he didn't spend each week he saved.
And praised his wife for every meal she made.
And once, for laughing, punched her in the face.
And for his mum he hired a private nurse.
And every Sunday taxied her to church.
And he blubbed when she went from bad to worse.
And twice he lifted ten quid from her purse.
Here's how they rated him when they looked back:
sometimes he did this, sometimes he did that.
Remember midsummer: the fragrance of box, of white
roses
And of phlox. And upon a honeysuckle branch
Three snails hanging with infinite delicacy
-- Clinging like tendril, flake and thread, as self-tormented
And self-delighted as any ballerina,
just as in the orchard,
Near the apple trees, in the over-grown grasses
Drunken wasps clung to over-ripe pears
Which had fallen: swollen and disfigured.
For now it is wholly autumn: in the late
Afternoon as I walked toward the ridge where the hills
begin,
There is a whir, a thrashing in the bush, and a startled
pheasant, flying out and up,
Suddenly astonished me, breaking the waking dream.
Last night
Snatches of sleep, streaked by dreams and half dreams
- So that, aloft in the dim sky, for almost an hour,
A sausage balloon - chalk-white and lifeless looking--
floated motionless
Until, at midnight, I went to New Bedlam and saw what I
feared
the most - I heard nothing, but it
had all happened several times elsewhere.
Now, in the cold glittering morning, shining at the
window,
The pears hang, yellowed and over-ripe, sodden brown in
erratic places, all bunched and dangling,
Like a small choir of bagpipes, silent and waiting. And I
rise now,
Go to the window and gaze at the fallen or falling country
-- And see! -- the fields are pencilled light brown
or are the dark brownness of the last autumn
-- So much has shrunken to straight brown lines, thin as
the
bare thin trees,
Save where the cornstalks, white bones of the lost forever dead,
Shrivelled and fallen, but shrill-voiced when the wind
whistles,
Are scattered like the long abandoned hopes and ambitions
Of an adolescence which, for a very long time, has been
merely
A recurrent target and taunt of the inescapable mockery of
memory.
The opening scene.  The yellow, coal-fed fog
Uncurling over the tainted city river,
A young girl rowing and her anxious father
Scavenging for corpses.  Funeral meats.  The clever
Abandoned orphan.  The great athletic killer
Sulking in his tent.  As though all stories began
With someone dying.
When her mother died,
My mother refused to attend the funeral--
In fact, she sulked in her tent all through the year
Of the old lady's dying.  I don't know why:
She said, because she loved her mother so much
She couldn't bear to see the way the doctors,
Or her father, or--someone--was letting her mother die.
"Follow your saint, follow with accents sweet;
Haste you, sad notes, fall at her flying feet."
She fogs things up, she scavenges the taint.
Possibly that's the reason I write these poems.
But they did speak:  on the phone.  Wept and argued,
So fiercely one or the other often cut off
A sentence by hanging up in rage--like lovers,
But all that year she never saw her face.
They lived on the same block, four doors apart.
"Absence my presence is; strangeness my grace;
With them that walk against me is my sun."
"Synagogue" is a word I never heard,
We called it shul, the Yiddish word for school.
Elms, terra-cotta, the ocean a few blocks east.
"Lay institution":  she taught me we didn't think
God lived in it.  The rabbi is just a teacher.
But what about the hereditary priests,
Descendants of the Cohanes of the Temple,
Like Walter Holtz--I called him Uncle Walter,
When I was small.  A big man with a face
Just like a boxer dog or a cartoon sergeant.
She told me whenever he helped a pretty woman
Try on a shoe in his store, he'd touch her calf
And ask her, "How does that feel?"  I was too little
To get the point but pretended to understand.
"Desire, be steady; hope is your delight,
An orb wherein no creature can ever be sorry."
She didn't go to my bar mitzvah, either.
I can't say why:  she was there, and then she wasn't.
I looked around before I mounted the steps
To chant that babble and the speech the rabbi wrote
And there she wasn't, and there was Uncle Walter
The Cohane frowning with his doggy face:
"She's missing her own son's musaf."  Maybe she just
Doesn't like rituals.  Afterwards, she had a reason
I don't remember.  I wasn't upset:  the truth
Is, I had decided to be the clever orphan
Some time before.  By now, it's all a myth.
What is a myth but something that seems to happen
Always for the first time over and over again?
And ten years later, she missed my brother's, too.
I'm sorry:  I think it was something about a hat.
"Hot sun, cool fire, tempered with sweet air,
Black shade, fair nurse, shadow my white hair;
Shine, sun; burn, fire; breathe, air, and ease me."
She sees the minister of the Nation of Islam
On television, though she's half-blind in one eye.
His bow tie is lime, his jacket crocodile green.
Vigorously he denounces the Jews who traded in slaves,
The Jews who run the newspapers and the banks.
"I see what this guy is mad about now," she says,
"It must have been some Jew that sold him the suit."
"And the same wind sang and the same wave whitened,
And or ever the garden's last petals were shed,
In the lips that had whispered, the eyes that had lightened."
But when they unveiled her mother's memorial stone,
Gathered at the graveside one year after the death,
According to custom, while we were standing around
About to begin the prayers, her car appeared.
It was a black car; the ground was deep in snow.
My mother got out and walked toward us, across
The field of gravestones capped with snow, her coat
Black as the car, and they waited to start the prayers
Until she arrived.  I think she enjoyed the drama.
I can't remember if she prayed or not,
But that may be the way I'll remember her best:
Dark figure, awaited, attended, aware, apart.
"The present time upon time passëd striketh;
With Phoebus's wandering course the earth is graced.
The air still moves, and by its moving, cleareth;
The fire up ascends, and planets feedeth;
The water passeth on, and all lets weareth;
The earth stands still, yet change of changes breedeth."
A sunny day's complete Poussiniana
Divide it from itself. It is this or that
And it is not.
By metaphor you paint
A thing. Thus, the pineapple was a leather fruit,
A fruit for pewter, thorned and palmed and blue,
To be served by men of ice.
The senses paint
By metaphor. The juice was fragranter
Than wettest cinnamon. It was cribled pears
Dripping a morning sap.
The truth must be
That you do not see, you experience, you feel,
That the buxom eye brings merely its element
To the total thing, a shapeless giant forced
Upward.
Green were the curls upon that head.
You, my photographer, you, most aware,
Who climbed to the bridge when the iceberg struck,
Climbed with your camera when the ship's hull broke,
And lighted your flashes and, standing passionate there,
Wound the camera in the sudden burst's flare,
Shot the screaming women, and turned and took
Pictures of the iceberg (as the ship's deck shook)
Dreaming like the moon in the night's black air!
You, tiptoe on the rail to film a child!
The nude old woman swimming in the sea
Looked up from the dark water to watch you there;
Below, near the ballroom where the band still toiled,
The frightened, in their lifebelts, watched you bitterly -
You hypocrite! My brother! We are a pair!
You little box, held to me escaping
So that your valves should not break
Carried from house to house to ship from sail to train,
So that my enemies might go on talking to me,
Near my bed, to my pain
The last thing at night, the first thing in the morning,
Of their victories and of my cares,
Promise me not to go silent all of a sudden.
the goldfish sing all night with guitars,
and the whores go down with the stars,
the whores go down with the stars
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.
Write, for instance: "The night is full of stars,
and the stars, blue, shiver in the distance."
The night wind whirls in the sky and sings.
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.
I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.
On nights like this, I held her in my arms.
I kissed her so many times under the infinite sky.
She loved me, sometimes I loved her.
How could I not have loved her large, still eyes?
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.
To think I don't have her. To feel that I've lost her.
To hear the immense night, more immense without her.
And the poem falls to the soul as dew to grass.
What does it matter that my love couldn't keep her.
The night is full of stars and she is not with me.
That's all. Far away, someone sings. Far away.
My soul is lost without her.
As if to bring her near, my eyes search for her.
My heart searches for her and she is not with me.
The same night that whitens the same trees.
We, we who were, we are the same no longer.
I no longer love her, true, but how much I loved her.
My voice searched the wind to touch her ear.
Someone else's. She will be someone else's. As she once
belonged to my kisses.
Her voice, her light body. Her infinite eyes.
I no longer love her, true, but perhaps I love her.
Love is so short and oblivion so long.
Because on nights like this I held her in my arms,
my soul is lost without her.
Although this may be the last pain she causes me,
and this may be the last poem I write for her.
Short poems
are fun.
You can see at a glance
whether you
like them
or not.
backroad leafmold stonewall chipmunk
underbrush grapevine woodchuck shadblow
woodsmoke cowbarn honeysuckle woodpile
sawhorse bucksaw outhouse wellsweep
backdoor flagstone bulkhead buttermilk
candlestick ragrug firedog brownbread
hilltop outcrop cowbell buttercup
whetstone thunderstorm pitchfork steeplebush
gristmill millstone cornmeal waterwheel
watercress buckwheat firefly jewelweed
gravestone groundpine windbreak bedrock
weathercock snowfall starlight cockcrow
Hebrew writing and Arabic writing go from east to west,
Latin writing, from west to east.
Languages are like cats:
You must not stroke their hair the wrong way.
The clouds come from the sea, the hot wind from the desert,
The trees bend in the wind,
And stones fly from all four winds,
Into all four winds. They throw stones,
Throw this land, one at the other,
But the land always falls back to the land.
They throw the land, want to get rid of it.
Its stones, its soil, but you can't get rid of it.
They throw stones, throw stones at me
In 1936, 1938, 1948, 1988,
Semites throw at Semites and anti-Semites at anti-Semites,
Evil men throw and just men throw,
Sinners throw and tempters throw,
Geologists throw and theologists throw,
Archaelogists throw and archhooligans throw,
Kidneys throw stones and gall bladders throw,
Head stones and forehead stones and the heart of a stone,
Stones shaped like a screaming mouth
And stones fitting your eyes
Like a pair of glasses,
The past throws stones at the future,
And all of them fall on the present.
Weeping stones and laughing gravel stones,
Even God in the Bible threw stones,
Even the Urim and Tumim were thrown
And got stuck in the beastplate of justice,
And Herod threw stones and what came out was a Temple.
Oh, the poem of stone sadness
Oh, the poem thrown on the stones
Oh, the poem of thrown stones.
Is there in this land
A stone that was never thrown
And never built and never overturned
And never uncovered and never discovered
And never screamed from a wall and never discarded by the builders
And never closed on top of a grave and never lay under lovers
And never turned into a cornerstone?
Please do not throw any more stones,
You are moving the land,
The holy, whole, open land,
You are moving it to the sea
And the sea doesn't want it
The sea says, not in me.
Please throw little stones,
Throw snail fossils, throw gravel,
Justice or injustice from the quarries of Migdal Tsedek,
Throw soft stones, throw sweet clods,
Throw limestone, throw clay,
Throw sand of the seashore,
Throw dust of the desert, throw rust,
Throw soil, throw wind,
Throw air, throw nothing
Until your hands are weary
And the war is weary
And even peace will be weary and will be.
Translated from the Hebrew by Barbara and Benjamin Harshav
Some say thronging cavalry, some say foot soldiers,
others call a fleet the most beautiful of
sights the dark earth offers, but I say it's what-
ever you love best.
And it's easy to make this understood by
everyone, for she who surpassed all human
kind in beauty, Helen, abandoning her
husband--that best of
men--went sailing off to the shores of Troy and
never spent a thought on her child or loving
parents: when the goddess seduced her wits and
left her to wander,
she forgot them all, she could not remember
anything but longing, and lightly straying
aside, lost her way. But that reminds me
now: Anactória,
she's not here, and I'd rather see her lovely
step, her sparkling glance and her face than gaze on
all the troops in Lydia in their chariots and
glittering armor.
I go to bed in Los Angeles thinking
about you.
While crowds of princes your deserts proclaim,
Proud in their number to enrol your name;
While emperors to you commit their cause,
And Anna's praises crown the vast applause;
Accept, great leader, what the Muse recites,
That in ambitious verse attempts your fights.
Fir'd and transported with a theme so new,
Ten thousand wonders opening to my view
Shine forth at once; sieges and storms appear,
And wars and conquests fill the' important year:
Rivers of blood I see, and hills of slain,
And Iliad rising out of one campaign.
The haughty Gaul beheld, with towering pride,
His ancient bounds enlarg'd on every side;
Pyrene's lofty barriers were subdued,
And in the midst of his wide empire stood;
Ausonia's states, the victor to restrain,
Opposed their Alps and Apennines in vain,
Nor found themselves, with strength of rocks immur'd,
Behind their everlasting hills secur'd;
The rising Danube its long race began,
And half its course through the new conquests ran;
Amaz'd and anxious for her soverign's fates,
Germania trembled through a hundred states;
Great Leopold himself was seiz'd with fear;
He gaz'd around, but saw no succour near;
He gaz'd, and half-abandon'd to despair.
His hopes on heaven, and confidence in pray;
To Britain's queen the nations turn their eyes,
On her resolves the western world relies,
Confiding still, amidst its dire alarms,
In Anna's conncils, and in Churchill's arms.
Thrice happy Britain, from the kingdoms rent,
To fit the guardian of the continent!
That sees her bravest son advanc'd so high,
And flourishing so near her prince's eye;
Thy favourites grow not up by fortune's sport,
Or from the crimes or follies of a court;
On the firm basis of desert they rise,
From long-try'd faith and friendship's holy tyes:
Their soverign's well-distinguish'd smiles they share,
Her ornaments in peace, her strength in war;
The nation thanks them with a public voice,
By showers of blessings heaven approves their choice;
Envy itself is dumb, in wonder lost,
And factions strive who shall applaud them most.
Soon as soft vernal breezes warm the sky,
Britannia's colours in the zephyrs fly;
Her chief already has his march begun,
Crossing the provinces himself had won,
Till the Moselle, appearing from afar,
Retards the progress of the moving war.
Delightful stream, had nature bid her fall
In distant climes far from the perjur'd Gaul;
But now a purchase to the sword she lies;
Her harvests for uncertain owners rise,
Each vineyard doubtful of its master grows,
And to the victor's bowl each vintage flows.
The discontented shades of slaughter'd hosts,
That wander'd on her banks, her heroes ghosts
Hop'd, when they saw Britannia's arms appear,
The vengeance due to their great deaths was near.
Our godlike leader, ere the stream he past,
The mighty scheme of all his labours cast,
Forming the wondrous year within his thought;
His bosom glow'd with battles yet unfought.
The long laborious march he first surveys,
And joins the distant Danube to the Maese,
Between whose floods such pathless forests grow,
Such mountains rise, so many rivers flow:
The toil looks lovely in the hero's eyes,
And danger serves but to enhance the prize.
Big with the fate of Europe, he renews
His dreadful course, and the proud foe pursues!
Infected by the burning Scorpion's heat,
the sultry gales round his chas'd temples beat,
Till on the borders of the Maine he finds
Defensive shadows, and refreshing winds.
Our British youth, with in-born freedom bold,
Unnumber'd scenes of servitude behold,
Nations of slaves, with tyranny debas'd,
(Their maker's image more than half defac'd)
Hourly instructed, as they urge their toil,
To prize their queen, and love their native soil.
Still to the rising sun they take their way
Through clouds of dust, and gain upon the day.
When now the Neckar on its friendly coast
With cooling streams revives the fainting host,
That chearfully his labours past forgets,
The mid-night watches, and the noon-day heats.
O'er prostrate towns and palaces they pass
(Now cover'd o'er with woods, and hid in grass),
Breathing revenge; whilst anger and disdain
Fire every breast, and boil in every vein:
Here shatter'd walls, like broken rocks, from far
Rise up in hideous views, the guilt of war,
Whilst here the vine o'er hills of ruin climbs,
Industrious to conceal great Bourbon's crimes.
At length the fame of England's hero drew
Eugenio to the glorious interview.
Great souls by instinct to each other turn,
Demand alliance, and in friendship burn:
A sudden friendship, while with stretch'd-out rays
They meet each other, mingling blaze with blaze,
Polish'd in courts, and harden'd in the field,
Renown'd for conquest, and in council skill'd,
Their courage dwells not in a troubled flood
Of mounting spirits, and fermenting blood;
Lodg'd in the soul, with virtue over-rul'd,
Inflam'd by reason, and by reason cool'd,
In hours of peace content to be unknown,
And only in the field of battle shown:
To souls like these, in mutual fiendship join'd,
Heaven dares intrust the cause of human-kind.
Britannia's graceful sons appear in arms,
Her harrass'd troops the hero's presence warms,
Whilst the high hills and rivers all around
With thundering peals of British shouts resound:
Doubling their speed, they march with fresh delight,
Eager for glory, and require the fight.
So the stanch hound the trembling deer pursues,
And smells his footsteps in the tainted dews,
The tedious track unraveling by degrees:
But when the scent comes warm in every breeze,
Fir'd at the near approach he shoots away
On his full stretch, and bears upon his prey.
The march concludes, the various realms are past;
Th' immortal Schellenberg appears at last:
Like hills th' aspiring ramparts rise on high,
Like valley's at their feet the trenches lie;
Batteries on batteries guard each fatal pass,
Threatening destruction; rows of hollow brass,
Tube behind tube, the dreadful entrance keep,
Whilst in thier wombs ten thousand thunders sleep,
Great Churchill owns, charm'd with the glorious sight,
His march o'er-paid by such a promis'd fight.
The western sun now shot a feeble ray,
And faintly scatter'd the remains of day:
Ev'ning approach'd; but oh what host of foes
Were never to behold that evening close!
Thickening their ranks, and wedg'd in firm array,
The close-compacted Britons win their way;
In vain the cannon their throng'd war defac'd
With tracts of death, and laid the battle waste;
Still pressing forward to the fight, they broke
Through flames of sulphur, and a night of smoke,
Till slaughter'd legions fill'd the trench below,
And bore their fierce avengers to the foe.
High on the works the mingling hosts engage;
The battle, kindled into tenfold rage,
With showers  of bullets and with storms of fire
Burns in full fury; heaps on heaps expire,
Nations with nations mix'd confus'dly die,
And lsot in one promiscuous carnage lie.
How many generous Britons meet their doom,
New to the field, and heroes in the bloom!
Th' illustrious youghts, that left their native shore
To march where Britons never march'd before
(O fatal love of fame! O glorious heat
Only destructive to the brave and great!)
After such toils o'ercome, such dangers past,
Stretch'd on Bavarian ramparts breathe their last.
But hold, my Muse, may no complaints appear
Nor blot the day with an ungrateful tear:
While Marlborough lives, Britannia's stars dispense
A friendly light, and shine in innocence.
Plunging through seas of blood his fiery steed
Where-e'er his friends retire, or foes succeed;
Those he supports, these drives to sudden flight,
And turns the various fortune of the fight.
Forbear, great man, renown'd in arms, forbear
To Brave the thickest terrors of the war,
Nor hazard thus, confus'd in crowds of foes,
Britannia's safety, and the world's repose;
Let nations anxious for thy life abate
This scorn of danger, and contempt of fate:
Thou liv'st not for thyself; thy Queen demands
Conquest and peace from thy victorious hands;
Kingdoms and empires in thy fortunes join,
And Europe's destiny depends on thine.
At length the long-disputed pass they gain
By crowded armies fortify'd in vain;
The war breaks in, the fierce Bavarians yield,
And see their camp with British legions fill'd.
So Belgian mounds bear on their shatter'd sides
The sea's whole weight increas'd with swelling tides;
But if the rushing wave a passage finds,
Enrag'd by watery moons, and warring winds,
The trembling peasant sees his country round
Cover'd with tempests, and in oceans drown'd.
The few surviving foes disperst in flight,
(Refuse of swords,a nd gleanings of a fight)
In every rustling wind the victor hear,
And Marlborough's form in every shadow fear,
Till the dark cope of night with kind embrace
Befriends the rout, and covers their disgrace.
To Donavert, with unresisted force,
The gay victorious army bends its course.
The growth of meadows, and the pride of fields,
Whatever spoils Bavaria's summer yields
(The Danube's great increase), Britannia shares,
The food of armies and support of wars:
With magazines of death, destructive balls,
And cannon doom'd to batter Landau's walls,
The victor finds each hidden cavern stor'd,
And turns their fury on their guilty Lord.
Deluded prince! how is thy greatness crost,
And all the gaudy dream of empire lost,
That proudly set thee on a fancy'd throne,
And made imaginary realms thy own!
Thy troops, that now behind the Danube join,
Shall shortly seek for shelter from the Rhine,
Nor find it there! Surrounded with alarms,
Thou hop'st the assistance fo the Gallic arms;
The Gallic arms in safety shall advance,
And crowd thy standards with the power of France,
While, to exalt thy doom, th' aspiring Gaul
Shares thy destruction, and adorns thy fall.
Unbounded courage and compassion join'd,
Tempering each other in the victor's mind,
Alternately proclaim him good and great,
And make the Hero and the Man compleat,
Long did he strive th' obdurate foe to gain
By proffer'd grace, but long he strove in vain;
Till, fir'd at length, he thinks it vain to spare
His rising wrath, and gives a loose to war.
In vengeance rous'd, the soldier fills his hand
With sword and fire, and ravages the land,
A thousand villages to ashes turns,
In crackling flames a thousand harvests burns.
To the thick woods the wolly flocks retreat,
And mixt with bellowing herds confus'dly bleat:
Their trembling lofds the common shade partake,
And cries of infants sound in every brake:
The listening soldier fixt in sorrow stands,
Loth to obey his leader's just commands:
The leader grieves, by generous pity sway'd,
To see his just commands so well obey'd.
But now the trumpet terrible from far
In shriller clangors animates the war;
Confederate drums in fuller concert beat,
And echoing hills the loud alarm repeat:
Gallia's proud standards, to Bavaria's join'd,
Unfurl their gilded lilies in the wind;
the daring prince his blasted hopes renews,
And, while the thick embattled host he views
Stretched out in deep array, and dreadful length,
His hearts dilates, and glories in his strength.
The fatal day its mighty course began,
That the griev'd world had long desir'd in vain;
States that their new captivity bemoan'd,
Armies of martyrs that in exile groan'd,
Sighs from the depth of gloomy dungeons heard,
And prayers in bitterness of soul preferr'd,
Europe's loud cries, that Providence assail'd,
And Anna's ardent vows at length prevail'd;
The day was come when heaven design'd to show
His care and conduct of the world below.
Behold in awful march and dread array
The long extended squadrons shape thier way!
Death, in approaching terrible, imparts
An anxious horror to the bravest hearts;
Yet do their beating breasts demand the strife,
And thirst of glory quells the love of life.
No vulgar fears can British minds control:
Heat of revenge, and noble pride of soul,
O'erlook the foe, advantag'd by his post,
Lessen his nmbers,a nd contract his host;
Though fens and floods possest the middle space,
That unprovok'd they would have fear'd to pass;
Nor fens nor floods can stop Britannia's bands,
When her proud foe rang'd on their borders stands.
But O, my Muse, what numbers wilt thou find
To sing the furious troops in battle join'd!
Methinks I hear the drums tumultuous sound
The victor's shouts and dying groans confound,
The dreadful burst of cannon rend the skies,
And all the thunder of the battle rise.
'Twas then great Marlborough's mighty soul was prov'd,
That, in the shock of charging  hosts unmov'd,
Amidst confusion, horror, and despair,
Examin'd all the dreadful scenes of war:
In peaceful thought the field of death survey'd,
To fainting squadrons sent the timely aid,
Inspir'd repuls'd battalions to engage,
And taught the doubtful battle where to rage.
So when an angel by divine command
With rising tempests shaks a guilty land,
Such as of late o'er pale Britannia past,
Calm and serene he drives the furious blast;
And, pleas'd th' Almighty's orders to perform,
Rides in the whirlwind, and directs the storm.
But see the haughty houshold troops advance!
The dread of Europe, and the pride of France.
The war's whole art each private soldier knows,
And with a General's love of conquest glows;
Proudly he marches on, and void of fear
Laughs at the shaking of the British spear:
Vain insolence! with native freedom brave,
The meanest Briton scorns the highest slave;
Contempt and  fury fire their souls by turns,
Each nation's glory in each warrior burns:
Each fights, as in his arm th' important day
And all the fate of his great monarch lay:
A thousand glorious actions, that might claim
Truimphant laurels, and immortal fame,
Confus'd in crouds of glorious actions lie,
And troops of heroes undistinguish'd die.
O Dormer, how can I behold thy fate,
And not the wonders of thy youth relate!
How can I see the gay, the brave, the young,
Fall in the cloud of war, and lie usung!
In joys of conquest he resigns his breath,
And, fill'd with England's glory, smiles in death.
The rout begins, the Gallic squadrons run,
Compell'd in crouds to meet the fate they shun;
Thousands of fiery steeds with wounds transfix'd,
Floatting in gore, with their dead masters mixt,
'Midst heaps of spears and standards driven around,
Lie in the Danube's bloody whirl-pools drown'd
Troops of bold youths, born on the distant Soane,
Or sounding borders of the rapid Rhone,
Or where the Seine her flowery fields divides,
Or where the Loire through winding vineyards glides,
In heaps the rolling billows sweep away,
And into Scythian seas their bloated corps convey.
From Blenheim's towers the Gaul, with wild affright,
Beholds the various havock of the fight;
His waving banners, that so oft had stood
Planted in fields of death and streams of blood,
So wont the guarded enemy to reach,
And rise triumphant in the fatal breach,
Or pierce the broken foe's remotest lines,
The hardy veteran with tears resigns.
Unfortunate Tallard! Oh, who can name
The pangs of rage, of sorrow, and of shame,
That with mixt tumult in thy bosom swell'd,
When first thou saw'st thy bravest troops repell'd,
Thine only son pierc'd with a deadly wound,
Chok'd in his blood, and gasping on the ground,
Thyself in bondage by the victor kept!
The chief, the father, and the captive, wept.
An English Muse is touch'd with generous woe,
And in th'unhappy man forgets the foe!
Greatly distrest! they loud complaints forbear,
Blame not the turns of fate, and chance of war;
Give thy brave foes their due, nor blush to own
The fatal field by such great leaders won,
The field whence fam'd Eugenio bore away
Only the second honours of the day.
With floods of gore that from the vanquish'd fell
The marshes stagnate, and the rivers swell.
Mountains of slain lie heap'd upon the ground,
Or midst the roarings of the Danube drown'd;
Whole captive hosts the conqueror detains
In painful bondage, and inglorious chains;
Ev'n those who 'scape the fetters and the sword,
Nor seek the fortunes of a happier lord,
Their raging King dishonours, to compleat
Marlborough's great work, and finish the defeat.
From Memminghen's high domes, and Augsburg's walls,
The distant battle drives th' insulting Gauls;
Freed by the terror of the victor's name
The rescued States his great protection claim;
Whilst Ulme th' approach of her deliverer waits,
And longs to open her obsequious gates.
The hero's breast still swells with great designs,
In every thought the towering genius shines;
If to the foe his dreadful course he bends,
O'er the wide continent his march extends;
If sieges in his labouring thoughts are form'd
Camps are assaulted, and an army storm'd:
If to the sight of his active soul is bent
The fate of Europe turns on its event.
What distant land, what region, can afford
An action worthy his victorious sword?
Where will he next the flying Gaul defeat,
To make the series of his toils compleat?
Where the swoln Rhine rushing with all its force
Divides the hostile nations in its course,
While each contracts its bounds, or wider grows,
Enlarg'd or straighten'd as the river flows,
On Gallia's side a mighty bulwark stands,
That all the wide-extended plain commands;
Twice, since the war was kindled, has it try'd
The victor's rage, and twice has chang'd its side;
As oft whole armies, with the prize o'erjoy'd,
Have the long summer on its walls employ'd.
Hither our mighty chief his arms directs,
Hence future triumphs from the war expects;
And though the dog-star had its course begun,
Carries his arms still nearer to the sun:
Fixt on the glorious action, he forgets
The change of seasons, and increase of heats;
No toils are painful that can danger show,
No climes unlovely, that contain a foe.
The roving Gaul, to his own bounds restrain'd,
Learns to incamp within his native land,
But soon as the victorious host he spies,
From hill to hill, from stream to stream he flies:
Such dire impressions in his heart remain
Of Marlboroough's sword, and Hochsset's fatal plain:
In vain Britannia's mighty chief besets
Their shady coverts, and obscure retreats;
They fly the conqueror's approaching fame,
That bears the force of armies in his name.
Austria's young monarch, whose imperial sway
Sceptres and thrones are destin'd to obey,
Whose boasted ancertry so high extends,
That in the pagan gods his lineage ends,
Comes from afar, in gratitude to own
The geat supporter of his father's throne:
What tides of glory to his bosom ran,
Clasp'd in th' embrace of the godlike man!
How were his eyes with pleasing wonder fixt
To see such fire with so much sweetness mixt,
Such easy greatness, such a graceful port,
So turn'd and finish'd for the camp or court!
Achilles thus was form'd with every grace,
And Nireus shone but in the second place;
Thus the great father of almighty Rome
(Divinely flusht with an immortal bloom
That Cytherea's fragrant breath bestow'd)
In all the charms of his bright mother glow'd.
The royal youth by Marlborough's presence charm'd,
Taught by his counsels, by his actions warm'd,
On Landau with redoubled fury falls,
Discharges all his thunder on its walls,
O'er mines and caves of death provokes the fight,
And leans to conquer in the hero's fight.
The British chief, for mighty toils renown'd,
Increas'd in titles, and with conquests crown'd,
To Belgian coasts his tedious march renews,
And the long windings of the Rhine pursues,
Clearing its borders from usurping foes,
Amd blest by rescued nations as he goes.
Treves fears no more, freed from its dire alarms;
And Traerbach feels the terror of his arms:
Seated on rocks her proud foundations shake,
While Marlborough presses to the bold attack,
Plants all his batteries, bids his cannon roar,
And shows how Landau might have fall'n before.
Scar'd at his near approach, great Louis fears
Vengeance reserv'd for his declining years,
Forgets his thirst of universal sway,
And scarce can teach is subjects to obey;
His arms he finds on vain attempts employ'd,
Th' ambitious projects for his race destroy'd,
The works of ages sunk in one campaign,
And lives of millions sacrific'd in vain.
Such are th' effects of Anna's royal cares:
By her, Britannia, great in foreign wars,
Ranges through nations, wheresoe'er disjoin'd,
Without the wonted aid of sea and wind,
By her th' unfetter'd Ister's states are free,
And taste the sweets of English liberty:
But who can tell the joys of those that lie
Beneath the constant influence of her eye!
Whilst in diffusive showers her bounties fall
Like heaven's indulgence, and descend on all,
Secure the happy, succour the distrest,
Make every subject glad, and a whole people blest.
Thus would I fain Britannia's wars rehearse,
In the smooth records of a faithful verse;
That, if such numbers can o'er time prevail,
May tell posterity the wondrous tale.
When actions, unadorn'd, are faint and weak,
Cities and countries must be taught to speak;
Gods may descend in factions from the skies,
And rivers from their oozy beds arise;
Fiction may deck the truth wth spurious rays,
And round the hero cast a borrow'd blaze.
Marlborough's exploits appear divinely bright,
And proudly shine in their own native light;
Rais'd of themselves, their genuine charms they boast,
And those who paint them truest praise them most.
A poem moves forward,
Like the passages and percussions of trains in progress
A pattern of recurrence, a hammer of repetetiveoccurrence
a slow less and less heard
low thunder under all passengers
Steel sounds tripping and tripled and
Grinding, revolving, gripping, turning, and returning
as the flung carpet of the wide countryside spreads out on
each side in billows
And in isolation, rolled out, white house, red barn, squat silo,
Pasture, hill, meadow and woodland pasture
And the striped poles step fast past the train windows
Second after second takes snapshots, clicking,
Into the dangled boxes of glinting windows
Snapshots and selections, rejections, at angles, of shadows
A small town: a shop's sign - GARAGE, and then white gates
Where waiting cars wait with the unrest of trembling
Breathing hard and idling, until the slow~descent
Of the red cones of sunset: a dead march: a slow tread and heavy
Of the slowed horses of Apollo
- Until the slowed horses of Apollo go over the horizon
And all things are parked, slowly or willingly,
into the customary or at random places.
the time i dropped your almost body down
down to meet the waters under the city
and run one with the sewage to the sea
what did i know about waters rushing back
what did i know about drowning
or being drowned
you would have been born in winter
in the year of the disconnected gas
and no car
we would have made the thin walk
over the genecy hill into the canada winds
to let you slip into a stranger's hands
if you were here i could tell you
these and some other things
and if i am ever less than a mountain
for your definite brothers and sisters
let the rivers wash over my head
let the sea take me for a spiller of seas
let black men call me stranger always
for your never named sake
How much better it seems now
than when it is finally done–
the unforgettable first line,
the cunning way the stanzas run.
The rhymes soft-spoken and suggestive
are barely audible at first,
an appetite not yet acknowledged
like the inkling of a thirst.
While gradually the form appears
as each line is coaxed aloud–
the architecture of a room
seen from the middle of a crowd.
The music that of common speech
but slanted so that each detail
sounds unexpected as a sharp
inserted in a simple scale.
No jumble box of imagery
dumped glumly in the reader's lap
or elegantly packaged junk
the unsuspecting must unwrap.
But words that could direct a friend
precisely to an unknown place,
those few unshakeable details
that no confusion can erase.
And the real subject left unspoken
but unmistakable to those
who don't expect a jungle parrot
in the black and white of prose.
How much better it seems now
than when it is finally written.
How hungrily one waits to feel
the bright lure seized, the old hook bitten.
Sometimes the poem
doesn't want to come;
it hides from the poet
like a playful cat
who has run
under the house
& lurks among slugs,
roots, spiders' eyes,
ledge so long out of the sun
that it is dank
with the breath of the Troll King.
Sometimes the poem
darts away
like a coy lover
who is afraid of being possessed,
of feeling too much,
of losing his essential
loneliness-which he calls
freedom.
Sometimes the poem
can't requite
the poet's passion.
The poem is a dance
between poet & poem,
but sometimes the poem
just won't dance
and lurks on the sidelines
tapping its feet-
iambs, trochees-
out of step with the music
of your mariachi band.
If the poem won't come,
I say: sneak up on it.
Pretend you don't care.
Sit in your chair
reading Shakespeare, Neruda,
immortal Emily
and let yourself flow
into their music.
Go to the kitchen
and start peeling onions
for homemade sugo.
Before you know it,
the poem will be crying
as your ripe tomatoes
bubble away
with inspiration.
When the whole house is filled
with the tender tomato aroma,
start kneading the pasta.
As you rock
over the damp sensuous dough,
making it bend to your will,
as you make love to this manna
of flour and water,
the poem will get hungry
and come
just like a cat
coming home
when you least
expect her.
Have the poets left in the garment a place for a patch to be patched by me; and did you know the abode of your beloved after reflection?2
The vestige of the house, which did not speak, confounded thee, until it spoke by means of signs, like one deaf and dumb.
Verily, I kept my she-camel there long grumbling, with a yearning at the blackened stones, keeping and standing firm in their own places.
It is the abode of a friend, languishing in her glance, submissive in the embrace, pleasant of smile.
Oh house of 'Ablah situated at Jiwaa, talk with me about those who resided in you. Good morning to you, O house of 'Ablah, and be safe from ruin.
I halted my she-camel in that place; and it was as though she were a high palace; in order that I might perform the wont of the lingerer.
And 'Ablah takes up her abode at Jiwaa; while our people went to Hazan, then to Mutathallam.
She took up her abode in the land of my enemies; so it became difficult for me to seek you, O daughter of Mahzam.
I was enamored of her unawares, at a time when I was killing her people, desiring her in marriage; but by your father's life I swear, this was not the time for desiring.3
And verily you have occupied in my heart the place of the honored loved one, so do not think otherwise than this, that you are my beloved.
And how may be the visiting of her; while her people have taken up their residence in the spring at 'Unaizatain and our people at Ghailam?
I knew that you had intended departing, for, verily, your camels were bridled on a dark night.
Nothing caused me fear of her departure, except that the baggage camels of her people were eating the seeds of the Khimkhim tree throughout the country.4
Amongst them were two and forty milk-giving camels, black as the wing-feathers of black crows.
When she captivates you with a mouth possessing sharp, and white teeth, sweet as to its place of kissing, delicious of taste.
As if she sees with the two eyes of a young, grown up gazelle from the deer.
It was as though the musk bag of a merchant in his case of perfumes preceded her teeth toward you from her mouth.
Or as if it is an old wine-skin, from Azri'at, preserved long, such as the kings of Rome preserve;
Or her mouth is as an ungrazed meadow, whose herbage the rain has guaranteed, in which there is but little dung; and which is not marked with the feet of animals.
The first pure showers of every rain-cloud rained upon it, and left every puddle in it bright and round like a dirham;
Sprinkling and pouring; so that the water flows upon it every evening, and is not cut off from it.
The fly enjoyed yet alone, and so it did not cease humming, as is the act of the singing drunkard;
Humming, while he rubs one foreleg against the other, as the striking on the flint of one, bent on the flint, and cut off as to his palm.
She passes her evenings and her mornings on the surface of a well-stuffed couch, while I pass my nights on the back of a bridled black horse.
And my couch is a saddle upon a horse big-boned in the leg, big in his flanks, great of girth.
Would a Shadanian she-camel cause me to arrive at her abode, who is cursed with an udder scanty of milk and cut off?5
After traveling all night, she is lashing her sides with her tail, and is strutting proudly, and she breaks up the mounds of earth she passes over with her foot with its sole, treading hard.
As if I in the evening am breaking the mounds of earth by means of an ostrich, very small as to the distance between its two feet, and earless.6
The young ostriches flock toward him, as the herds of Yamanian camels flock to a barbarous, unintelligible speaker.
They follow the crest of his head, as though it was a howdah on a large litter, tented for them.
He is small headed, who returns constantly to look after his eggs at Zil-'Ushairah; he is like a slave, with a long fur cloak and without ears.
She drank of the water of Duhruzain and then turned away, being disgusted, from the pools of stagnant water.7
And she swerves away with her right side from the fear of one, whistling in the evening, a big, ugly-headed one;8
From the fear of a cat, led at her side, every time she turned toward him, in anger, he met her with both claws and mouth.
She knelt down at the edge of the pool of Rada', and groaned as though she had knelt on a reed, broken, and emitting a cracking noise.
And the sweat on the back was as though it were oil or thick pitch, with which fire is lighted round the sides of a retort.
Her places of flexure were wetted with it and she lavishly poured of it, on a spreading forelock, short and well-bred.
The length of the journey left her a strong, well-built body, like a high palace, built with cement, and rising high; and feet like the supports of a firmly pitched tent.
And surely I recollected you, even when the lances were drinking my blood, and bright swords of Indian make were dripping with my blood.
I wished to kiss the swords, for verily they shone as bright as the flash of the foretooth of your smiling mouth.
If you lower your veil over yourself in front of me, of what use will it be? for, verily, I am expert in capturing the mailed horseman.
Praise me for the qualities which you know I possess, for, verily, when I am not ill-treated, I am gentle to associate with.
And if I am ill-treated, then, verily, my tyranny is severe, very bitter is the taste of it, as the taste of the colocynth.
And, verily, I have drunk wine after the midday heats have subsided, buying it with the bright stamped coin.
From a glass, yellow with the lines of the glass-cutter on it, which was accompanied by a white-stoppered bottle on the left-hand side.
And when I have drunk, verily, I am the squanderer of my property, and my honor is great, and is not sullied.9
And when I have become sober, I do not diminish in my generosity, and as you know, so are my qualities and my liberality.
And many a husband of a beautiful woman, I have left prostrate on the ground, with his shoulders hissing like the side of the mouth of one with a split lip.10
My two hands preceded him with a hasty blow, striking him before he could strike me; and with the drops of blood from a penetrating stroke, red like the color of Brazil wood.
Why did you not ask the horsemen, O daughter Malik! if you were ignorant, concerning what you did not know about my condition,
At a time when I never ceased to be in the saddle of a long striding, wounded, sturdy horse, against whom the warriors came in succession.
At one time he is detached to charge the enemy with the lance, and at another he joins the large host with their bows tightly strung.
He who was present in the battle will inform you that verily I rush into battle, but I abstain at the time of taking the booty.
I see spoils, which, if I want I would win; but my bashfulness and my magnanimity hold me back from them.
And many a fully armed one, whom the warriors shunned fighting with, neither a hastener in flight, nor a surrenderer;
My hands were generous to him by a quick point with a straightened spear, strong in the joints;
Inflicting a wound wide of its two sides, the sound of the flow of blood from it leads at night the prowling wolves, burning with hunger.
I rent his vesture with a rigid spear, for the noble one is not forbidden to the spears.
Then I left him a prey for the wild beasts, who seize him, and gnaw the beauty of his fingers and wrist.
And many a long, closely woven coat of mail, I have split open the links of it, with a sword, off one defending his rights, and renowned for bravery.
Whose hands are ready with gambling arrows when it is winter, a tearer-down of the signs of the wine-sellers, and one reproached for his extravagance.11
When he saw that I had descended from my horse and was intending killing him, he showed his teeth, but without smiling.12
My meeting with him was when the day spread out, and he was as if his fingers and his head were dyed with indigo.13
I pierced him with my spear, and then I set upon him with my Indian sword pure of steel, and keen.
A warrior, so stately in size as if his clothes were on a high tree: soft leather shoes are worn by him and he is not twinned.
Oh, how wonderful is the beauty of the doe of the hunt, to whom is she lawful? To me she is unlawful; would to God that she was not unlawful.14
So, I sent my female slave, and said to her, "Go, find out news of her and inform me."
She said, "I saw carelessness on the part of the enemies, and that the doe is possible to him who is shooting."
And it was as though she looked toward me with the neck of a doe, a fawn of the gazelles, pure and with a white upper lip.
I am informed that 'Amru is unthankful for my kindness while ingratitude is a cause of evil to the soul of the giver.15
And, verily, I remember the advice of my uncle, in the battle, when the two lips quiver from off the white teeth of the mouth,
In the thick of the battle, of which the warriors do not complain of the rigors, except with an unintelligible noise.
When they (i.e., my people) defended themselves with me against the spears of the enemy, I did not refrain from them (i.e., the spears) through cowardice, but the place of my advance had become too strait.
When I heard the cry of Murrah rise, and saw the two sons of Rabi'ah in the thick dust,
While the tribe of Muhallam were struggling under their banners, and death was under the banners of the tribe of Mulhallam {sic.},
I made sure that at the time of their encounter there would be a blow, which would make the heads fly from the bodies, as the bird flies from off her young ones sitting close.
When I saw the people, while their mass advanced, excite one another to fight, I turned against them without being reproached for any want of bravery.
They were calling 'Antarah, while the spears were as though they were well-ropes in the breast of Adham.
They were calling 'Antarah, while the swords were as though they were the flash of lightnings in a dark cloud.
They were calling 'Antarah, while the arrows were flying, as though they were a flight of locusts, hovering above watering places.
They were calling " O 'Antarah," while the coats of mail shone with close rings, shining as though they were the eyeballs of frogs floating in a wavy pond.
I did not cease charging them, (the enemy,) with the prominent part of his (horse's) throat and breast, until he became covered with a shirt of blood.
Then he turned on account of the falling of the spears on his breast, and complained to me with tears and whinnyings.
If he had known what conversation was, he would have complained with words, and verily he would have, had he known speech, talked with me.
And verily the speech of the horsemen, "Woe to you, 'Antarah, advance, and attack the enemy," cured my soul and removed its sickness.
While the horses sternly frowning were charging over the soft soil, being partly the long-bodied mares, and partly the long-bodied, well-bred horses.
My riding-camels are tractable, they go wherever I wish; while my intellect is my helper, and I drive it forward with a firm order.16
Verily, it lay beyond my power that I should visit you; so, know what you have known, and some of what you have not known.
The lances of the tribe of Bagheez intercepted you and the perpetrators of the war set aside those who did not perpetrate it.
And, verily, I turned the horse for the attack, while his neck was bleeding, until the horses began to shun me.
And verily I feared that I should die, while there has not yet been a turn for war against the two sons of Zamzam;17
The two revilers of my honor, while I did not revile them, and the threateners of my blood, when I did not see them.
There is no wonder should they do so, for I left their father a prey for the wild beasts and every large old vulture.
Stop, oh my friends, let us pause to weep over the remembrance of my beloved.
Here was her abode on the edge of the sandy desert between Dakhool and Howmal.
The traces of her encampment are not wholly obliterated even now.
For when the South wind blows the sand over them the North wind sweeps it away.
The courtyards and enclosures of the old home have become desolate;
The dung of the wild deer lies there thick as the seeds of pepper.
On the morning of our separation it was as if I stood in the gardens of our tribe,
Amid the acacia-shrubs where my eyes were blinded with tears by the smart from the bursting pods of colocynth.
As I lament thus in the place made desolate, my friends stop their camels;
They cry to me 'Do not die of grief; bear this sorrow patiently.'
Nay, the cure of my sorrow must come from gushing tears.
Yet, is there any hope that this desolation can bring me solace?
So before ever I met Unaizah, did I mourn for two others;
My fate had been the same with Ummul-Huwairith and her neighbor Ummul-Rahab in Masal.
Fair were they also, diffusing the odor of musk as they moved,
Like the soft zephyr bringing with it the scent of the clove.
Thus the tears flowed down on my breast, remembering days of love;
The tears wetted even my sword-belt, so tender was my love.
Behold how many pleasant days have I spent with fair women;
Especially do I remember the day at the pool of Darat-i-Juljul.2
On that day I killed my riding camel for food for the maidens:
How merry was their dividing my camel's trappings to be carried on their camels.
It is a wonder, a riddle, that the camel being saddled was yet unsaddled!
A wonder also was the slaughterer, so heedless of self in his costly gift!
Then the maidens commenced throwing the camel's flesh into the kettle;
The fat was woven with the lean like loose fringes of white twisted silk.
On that day I entered the howdah, the camel's howdah of Unaizah!
And she protested, saying, 'Woe to you, you will force me to travel on foot.'
She repulsed me, while the howdah was swaying with us;
She said, 'You are galling my camel, Oh Imru-ul-Quais, so dismount.'
Then I said, 'Drive him on! Let his reins go loose, while you turn to me.
Think not of the camel and our weight on him. Let us be happy.
'Many a beautiful woman like you, Oh Unaizah, have I visited at night;
I have won her thought to me, even from her children have I won her.'
There was another day when I walked with her behind the sandhills,
But she put aside my entreaties and swore an oath of virginity.
Oh, Unaizah, gently, put aside some of this coquetry.
If you have, indeed, made up your mind to cut off friendship with me, then do it kindly or gently.
Has anything deceived you about me, that your love is killing me,
And that verily as often as you order my heart, it will do what you order?
And if any one of my habits has caused you annoyance,
Then put away my heart from your heart, and it will be put away.
And your two eyes do not flow with tears, except to strike me with arrows in my broken heart.
Many a fair one, whose tent can not be sought by others, have I enjoyed playing with.
I passed by the sentries on watch near her, and a people desirous of killing me;
If they could conceal my murder, being unable to assail me openly.
I passed by these people at a time, when the Pleiades appeared in the heavens,
As the appearance of the gems in the spaces in the ornamented girdle, set with pearls and gems.
Then she said to me, 'I swear by God, you have no excuse for your wild life;
I can not expect that your erring habits will ever be removed from your nature.'
I went out with her; she walking, and drawing behind us, over our footmarks,
The skirts of an embroidered woolen garment, to erase the footprints.
Then when we had crossed the enclosure of the tribe,
The middle of the open plain, with its sandy undulations and sandhills, we sought.
I drew the tow side-locks of her head toward me; and she leant toward me;
She was slender of waist, and full in the ankle.
Thin-waisted, white-skinned, slender of body,
Her breast shining polished like a mirror.
In complexion she is like the first egg of the ostrich-white, mixed with yellow.
Pure water, unsullied by the descent of many people in it, has nourished her.
She turns away, and shows her smooth cheek, forbidding with a glancing eye,
Like that of a wild animal, with young, in the desert of Wajrah.
And she shows a neck like the neck of a white deer;
It is neither disproportionate when she raises it, nor unornamented.
And a perfect head of hair which, when loosened, adorns her back
Black, very dark-colored, thick like a date-cluster on a heavily-laden date-tree.
Her curls creep upward to the top of her head;
And the plaits are lost in the twisted hair, and the hair falling loose.
And she meets me with a slender waist, thin as the twisted leathern nose-rein of a camel.
Her form is like the stem of a palm-tree bending over from the weight of its fruit.
In the morning, when she wakes, the particles of musk are lying over her bed.
She sleeps much in the morning; she does not need to gird her waist with a working dress.
She gives with thin fingers, not thick, as if they were the worms of the desert of Zabi,
In the evening she brightens the darkness, as if she were the light-tower of a monk.
Toward one like her, the wise man gazes incessantly, lovingly
She is well proportioned in height between the wearer of a long dress and of a short frock.
The follies of men cease with youth, but my heart does not cease to love you.
Many bitter counselors have warned me of the disaster of your love, but I turned away from them.
Many a night has let down its curtains around me amid deep grief,
It has whelmed me as a wave of the sea to try me with sorrow.
Then I said to the night, as slowly his huge bulk passed over me,
As his breast, his loins, his buttocks weighed on me and then passed afar,
'Oh long night, dawn will come, but will be no brighter without my love.
You are a wonder, with stars held up as by ropes of hemp to a solid rock.'
At other times, I have filled a leather water-bag of my people and entered the desert,
And trod its empty wastes while the wolf howled like a gambler whose family starves.
I said to the wolf, 'You gather as little wealth, as little prosperity as I.
What either of us gains he gives away. So do we remain thin.'
Early in the morning, while the birds were still nesting, I mounted my steed.
Well-bred was he, long-bodied, outstripping the wild beasts in speed,
Swift to attack, to flee, to turn, yet firm as a rock swept down by the torrent,
Bay-colored, and so smooth the saddle slips from him, as the rain from a smooth stone,
Thin but full of life, fire boils within him like the snorting of a boiling kettle;
He continues at full gallop when other horses are dragging their feet in the dust for weariness.
A boy would be blown from his back, and even the strong rider loses his garments.
Fast is my steed as a top when a child has spun it well.
He has the flanks of a buck, the legs of an ostrich, and the gallop of a wolf.
From behind, his thick tail hides the space between his thighs, and almost sweeps the ground.
When he stands before the house, his back looks like the huge grinding-stone there.
The blood of many leaders of herds is in him, thick as the juice of henna in combed white hair.
As I rode him we saw a flock of wild sheep, the ewes like maidens in long-trailing robes;
They turned for flight, but already he had passed the leaders before they could scatter.
He outran a bull and a cow and killed them both, and they were made ready for cooking;
Yet he did not even sweat so as to need washing.
We returned at evening, and the eye could scarcely realize his beauty
For, when gazing at one part, the eye was drawn away by the perfection of another part.
He stood all night with his saddle and bridle on him,
He stood all night while I gazed at him admiring, and did not rest in his stable.
But come, my friends, as we stand here mourning, do you see the lightning?
See its glittering, like the flash of two moving hands, amid the thick gathering clouds.
Its glory shines like the lamps of a monk when he has dipped their wicks thick in oil.
I sat down with my companions and watched the lightning and the coming storm.
So wide-spread was the rain that its right end seemed over Quatan,
Yet we could see its left end pouring down on Satar, and beyond that over Yazbul.
So mighty was the storm that it hurled upon their faces the huge kanahbul trees,
The spray of it drove the wild goats down from the hills of Quanan.
In the gardens of Taimaa not a date-tree was left standing,
Nor a building, except those strengthened with heavy stones.
The mountain, at the first downpour of the rain, looked like a giant of our people draped in a striped cloak.
The peak of Mujaimir in the flood and rush of débris looked like a whirling spindle.
The clouds poured forth their gift on the desert of Ghabeet, till it blossomed
As though a Yemani merchant were spreading out all the rich clothes from his trunks,
As though the little birds of the valley of Jiwaa awakened in the morning
And burst forth in song after a morning draught of old, pure, spiced wine.
As though all the wild beasts had been covered with sand and mud, like the onion's root-bulbs.
They were drowned and lost in the depths of the desert at evening.
'Does the blackened ruin, situated in the stony ground between Durraj and Mutathallam, which did not speak to me, when addressed, belong to the abode of Ummi Awfa?
'And is it her dwelling at the two stony meadows, seeming as though they were the renewed tattoo marks in the sinews of the wrist?
'The wild cows and the white deer are wandering about there, one herd behind the other, while their young are springing up from every lying-down place.
'I stood again near it, (the encampment of the tribe of Awfa,)   after an absence of twenty years, and with some efforts, I know her abode again after thinking awhile.
'I recognized the three stones blackened by fire at the place where the kettle used to be placed at night, and the trench round the encampment, which had not burst, like the source of a pool.
'And when I recognized the encampment I said to its site, 'Now good morning, oh spot; may you be safe from dangers.'
'Look, oh my friend! do you see any women traveling on camels, going over the high ground above the stream of Jurthum?
'They have covered their howdahs with coverlets of high value, and with a thin screen, the fringes of which are red, resembling blood.
'And they inclined toward the valley of Soobán, ascending the center of it, and in their faces were the fascinating looks of a soft-bodied person brought up in easy circumstances;
'They arose early in the morning and got up at dawn, and they went straight to the valley of Rass as the hand goes unswervingly to the mouth, when eating.
'And amongst them is a place of amusement for the far-sighted one, and a pleasant sight for the eye of the looker who looks attentively.
'As if the pieces of dyed wool which they left in every place in which they halted, were the seeds of night-shade which have not been crushed.
'When they arrived at the water, the mass of which was blue from intense purity, they laid down their walking sticks, (i.e., took their lodging there,)   like the dweller who has pitched his tents.
'They kept the hill of Qanan and the rough ground about it on their hand; while there are many, dwelling in Qanan, the shedding of whose blood is lawful and unlawful.
'They came out from the valley of Soobán, then they crossed it, riding in every Qainian howdah new and widened.
'Then I swear by the temple, round which walk the men who built it from the tribes of Quraish and Jurhum.
'An oath, that you are verily two excellent chiefs, who are found worthy of honor in every condition, between ease and distress.
'The two endeavorers from the tribe of Ghaiz bin Murrah strove in making peace after the connection between the tribes had become broken, on account of the shedding of blood.
'You repaired with peace the condition of the tribes of 'Abs and Zubyán, after they had fought with one another, and ground up the perfume of Manshim between them.
'And indeed you said, 'if we bring about peace perfectly by the spending of money and the conferring of benefits, and by good words, we shall be safe from the danger of the two tribes, destroying each other.'
'You occupied by reason of this the best of positions, and became far from the reproach of being undutiful and sinful.
'And you became great in the high nobility of Ma'add; may you be guided in the right way; and he who spends his treasure of glory will become great.
'The memory of the wounds is obliterated by the hundreds of camels, and he, who commenced paying off the blood money by instalments, was not guilty of it (i.e., of making war) .
'One tribe pays it to another tribe as an indemnity, while they who gave the indemnity did not shed blood sufficient for the filling of a cupping glass.
'Then there was being driven to them from the property you inherited, a booty of various sorts from young camels with slit ears.
'Now, convey from me to the tribe of Zubyán and their allies a message,-'verily you have sworn by every sort of oath to keep the peace.'
'Do not conceal from God what is in your breast that it may be hidden; whatever is concealed, God knows all about it.
'Either it will be put off and placed recorded in a book, and preserved there until the judgment day; or the punishment be hastened and so he will take revenge.
'And war is not but what you have learnt it to be, and what you have experienced, and what is said concerning it, is not a story based on suppositions.
'When you stir it up, you will stir it up as an accursed thing, and it will become greedy when you excite its greed and it will rage fiercely.
'Then it will grind you as the grinding of the upper millstone against the lower, and it will conceive immediately after one birth and it will produce twins.
'By my life I swear, how good a tribe it is upon whom Husain Bin Zamzam brought an injury by committing a crime which did not please them.
'And he had concealed his hatred, and did not display it, and did not proceed to carry out his intention until he got a good opportunity.
'And he said, 'I will perform my object of avenging myself, and I will guard myself from my enemy with a thousand bridled horses behind me.'
'Then he attacked his victim from 'Abs, but did not cause fear to the people of the many houses, near which death had thrown down his baggage.
'They allowed their animals to graze until when the interval between the hours of drinking was finished, they took them to the deep pool, which is divided by weapons and by shedding of blood.
'They accomplished their object amongst themselves, then they led the animals back to the pasture of unwholesome indigestible grass.
'I have grown weary of the troubles of life; and he, who lives eighty years will, mayest thou have no father if thou doubt 11 grow weary.
'And I know what has happened to-day and yesterday, before it, but verily, of the knowledge of what will happen to-morrow; I am ignorant.
'I see death is like the blundering of a blind camel; -him whom he meets he kills, and he whom he misses lives and will become old.
'And he who does not act with kindness in many affairs will be torn by teeth and trampled under foot.
'And he, who makes benevolent acts intervene before honor, increases his honor; and he, who does not avoid abuse, will be abused.
'He, who is possessed of plenty, and is miserly with his great wealth toward his people, will be dispensed with, and abused.
'He who keeps his word, will not be reviled; and he whose heart is guided to self-satisfying benevolence will not stammer.
'And he who dreads the causes of death, they will reach him, even if he ascends the tracts of the heavens with a ladder.
'And he, who shows kindness to one not deserving it, his praise will be a reproach against him, and he will repent of having shown kindness.
'And he who rebels against the butt ends of the spears, then verily he will have to obey the spear points joined to every long spear shaft.
'And he who does not repulse with his weapons from his tank, will have it broken; and he who does not oppress the people will be oppressed.
'And he who travels should consider his friend an enemy; and he who does not respect himself will not be respected.
'And he, who is always seeking to bear the burdens of other people, and does not excuse himself from it, will one day by reason of his abasement, repent.
'And whatever of character there is in a man, even though he thinks it concealed from people, it is known.
'He, who does not cease asking people to carry him, and does not make himself independent of them even for one day of the time, will be regarded with disgust.
'Many silent ones you see, pleasing to you, but their excess in wisdom or deficiency will appear at the time of talking.
'The tongue of a man is one half, and the other half is his mind, and here is nothing besides these two, except the shape of the blood and the flesh.
'And verily, as to the folly of an old man there is no wisdom after it, but the young man after his folly may become wise.
'We asked of you, and you gave, and we returned to the asking and you returned to the giving, and he who increases the asking, will one day be disappointed.'
There it was, word for word,
The poem that took the place of a mountain.
He breathed its oxygen,
Even when the book lay turned in the dust of his table.
It reminded him how he had needed
A place to go to in his own direction,
How he had recomposed the pines,
Shifted the rocks and picked his way among clouds,
For the outlook that would be right,
Where he would be complete in an unexplained completion:
The exact rock where his inexactness
Would discover, at last, the view toward which they had edged,
Where he could lie and, gazing down at the sea,
Recognize his unique and solitary home.
My poem would eat nothing.
I tried giving it water
but it said no,
worrying me.
Day after day,
I held it up to the llight,
turning it over,
but it only pressed its lips
more tightly together.
It grew sullen, like a toad
through with being teased.
I offered it money,
my clothes, my car with a full tank.
But the poem stared at the floor.
Finally I cupped it in
my hands, and carried it gently
out into the soft air, into the
evening traffic, wondering how
to end things between us.
For now it had begun breathing,
putting on more and
more hard rings of flesh.
And the poem demanded the food,
it drank up all the water,
beat me and took my money,
tore the faded clothes
off my back,
said Shit,
and walked slowly away,
slicking its hair down.
Said it was going
over to your place.
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.
Write, for instance: "The night is full of stars,
and the stars, blue, shiver in the distance."
The night wind whirls in the sky and sings.
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.
I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.
On nights like this, I held her in my arms.
I kissed her so many times under the infinite sky.
She loved me, sometimes I loved her.
How could I not have loved her large, still eyes?
I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.
To think I don't have her. To feel that I've lost her.
To hear the immense night, more immense without her.
And the poem falls to the soul as dew to grass.
What does it matter that my love couldn't keep her.
The night is full of stars and she is not with me.
That's all. Far away, someone sings. Far away.
My soul is lost without her.
As if to bring her near, my eyes search for her.
My heart searches for her and she is not with me.
The same night that whitens the same trees.
We, we who were, we are the same no longer.
I no longer love her, true, but how much I loved her.
My voice searched the wind to touch her ear.
Someone else's. She will be someone else's. As she once
belonged to my kisses.
Her voice, her light body. Her infinite eyes.
I no longer love her, true, but perhaps I love her.
Love is so short and oblivion so long.
Because on nights like this I held her in my arms,
my soul is lost without her.
Although this may be the last pain she causes me,
and this may be the last poem I write for her.
well I wanted to braid my hair
bathe and bedeck my
self so fine
so fully aforethought for
your pleasure
see:
I wanted to travel and read
and runaround fantastic
into war and peace:
I wanted to
surf
dive
fly
climb
conquer
and be conquered
THEN
I wanted to pickup the phone
and find you asking me
if I might possibly be alone
some night
(so I could answer cool
as the jewels I would wear
on bareskin for you
digmedaddy delectation:)
"WHEN
you comin ova?"
But I had to remember to write down
margarine on the list
and shoepolish and a can of
sliced pineapple in casea company
and a quarta skim milk cause Teresa's
gaining weight and don' nobody groove on
that much
girl
and next I hadta sort for darks and lights before
the laundry hit the water which I had
to kinda keep an eye on be-
cause if the big hose jumps the sink again that
Mrs. Thompson gointa come upstairs
and brain me with a mop don' smell too
nice even though she hang
it headfirst out the winda
and I had to check
on William like to
burn hisself to death with fever
boy so thin be
callin all day "Momma! Sing to me?"
"Ma! Am I gone die?" and me not
wake enough to sit beside him longer than
to wipeaway the sweat or change the sheets/
his shirt and feed him orange
juice before I fall out of sleep and
Sweet My Jesus ain but one can
left
and we not thru the afternoon
and now
you (temporarily) shownup with a thing
you says' a poem and you
call it
"Will The Real Miss Black America Standup?"
guilty po' mouth
about duty beauties of my
headrag
boozeup doozies about
never mind
cause love is blind
well
I can't use it
and the very next bodacious Blackman
call me queen
because my life ain shit
because (in any case) he ain been here to share it
with me
(dish for dish and do for do and
dream for dream)
I'm gone scream him out my house
be-
cause what I wanted was
to braid my hair/bathe and bedeck my
self so fully be-
cause what I wanted was
your love
not pity
be-
cause what I wanted was
your love
your love
How dare you dump me just like that...?
before I'd even considered dumping you...
if I'd know you were the dumping kind
i'd've dumped you first.
BUT **** IT HURTS
This is a poem I wrote before I died and was reborn:
- After the years of the apples ripening and the eagles
soaring,
After the festival here the small flowers gleamed like the
first stars,
And the horses cantered and romped away like the
experience of skill; mastered and serene
Power, grasped and governed by reins, lightly held by
knowing hands.
The horses had cantered away, far enough away
So that I saw the horses' heads farther and farther away
And saw that they had reached the black horizon on the
dusk of day
And were or seemed black thunderheads, massy and
ominous waves in the doomed sky:
And it was then, for the first time, then that I said as I
must always say
All through living death of night:
It is always darkness before delight!
The long night is always the beginning of the vivid blossom of day.
Come at it carefully, don't trust it, that isn't its right name,
It's wearing stolen rags, it's never been washed, its breath
Would look moss-green if it were really breathing,
It won't get out of the way, it stares at you
Out of eyes burnt gray as the sidewalk,
Its skin is overcast with colorless dirt,
It has no distinguishing marks, no I.D. cards,
It wants something of yours but hasn't decided
Whether to ask for it or just take it,
There are no policemen, no friendly neighbors,
No peacekeeping busybodies to yell for, only this
Thing standing between you and the place you were headed,
You have about thirty seconds to get past it, around it,
Or simply to back away and try to forget it,
It won't take no for an answer: try hitting it first
And you'll learn what's trembling in its torn pocket.
Now, what do you want to do about it?
Take a newspaper.
Take some scissors.
Choose from this paper an article the length you want to make your poem.
Cut out the article.
Next carefully cut out each of the words that make up this article and put them all in a bag.
Shake gently.
Next take out each cutting one after the other.
Copy conscientiously in the order in which they left the bag.
The poem will resemble you.
And there you are--an infinitely original author of charming sensibility, even though unappreciated by the vulgar herd.
It is a willow when summer is over,
a willow by the river
from which no leaf has fallen nor
bitten by the sun
turned orange or crimson.
The leaves cling and grow paler,
swing and grow paler
over the swirling waters of the river
as if loth to let go,
they are so cool, so drunk with
the swirl of the wind and of the river --
oblivious to winter,
the last to let go and fall
into the water and on the ground.
My poem may be yours indeed
In melody and tone,
If in its rhythm you can read
A music of your own;
If in its pale woof you can weave
Your lovelier design,
'Twill make my lyric, I believe,
More yours than mine.
I'm but a prompter at the best;
Crude cues are all I give.
In simple stanzas I suggest -
'Tis you who make them live.
My bit of rhyme is but a frame,
And if my lines you quote,
I think, although they bear my name,
'Tis you who wrote.
Yours is the beauty that you see
In any words I sing;
The magic and the melody
'Tis you, dear friend, who bring.
Yea, by the glory and the gleam,
The loveliness that lures
Your thought to starry heights of dream,
The poem's yours.
It could be tomorrow.
Or the day after.
The important thing will be
that you’ll know when it happens that
it’s what you’ve been waiting for
perhaps all your life
you’ll go out of the door as usual
at the usual time
but instead of turning right
you’ll turn left
just that
and then it will unfold
like someone else’s life
and you’ll talk to different people,
listen differently
see differently
and then find yourself writing
in a quite different way
perhaps even in a strange language
about emotions you never had before
deep down, it’s always been whispering
no singing, in your ear
like when you were a child
and there they were behind you but
you could never turn round quick enough
to catch them. The other poetry
you never wrote but you know it’s there
maybe waiting for you
maybe waiting for someone else
but there. So close.
Maybe one day.
Or the day after.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
this is my first poetry reading
and I’m very nervous
and nearly cancelled tonight
but I spoke about this to
a friend who’s a therapist
and he said,
this is what you do,
you imagine the audience
in front of you
all in their underwear
(as you probably are; but
without the outer layer)
with the men
wearing the most idiotic
flowered Hawaiian
two sizes too large
boxer shorts
and the ladies
in the frumpiest
underwear
you can imagine
apparently it works
so if I look at you, ladies and gentlemen,
somewhat strangely
from time to time
or giggle uncontrollably
or my eyes rest on you personally
as if we’re sharing some huge
x-ray joke,
please forgive me
and understand
that’s it for your benefit
as well as mine
and that you will have put your outerwear
back on
in the interval
before the next poem
I hope this is OK with you
and nobody’s too embarrassed
in fact you could do the same trick
with me if it’s
any help
and now
I think I’ve said enough as
I’m OK now
how about you?
(For maximum effect, pause noticeably at the end of each line)
(with thanks to Ernestine for the idea)
This is the illicit still of poetry
half hidden in the dry ditch beyond the hedge
firewater drunk from an old tin mug
it takes the skin off your throat
and drops it into your glowing stomach
and you don’t ask but maybe
wild crab-apples, turnips,
a handful of stolen barley, an old boot,
perhaps an incautious rat
who drowned in the middle of
drinking a wild dream
such as rat never had before
this the raw stuff
untaxed by rules
out here in the unfenced fields
not much spelling, punctuation,
vocabulary, grammar,
metre, euphony; if Emily
had been a prizefighter
she’d have breathed like this
but drunk, frozen breath steaming in the night air
seated on an old apple box
the stars never were so bright
the heart so near
Pithy, precise,
wry, wise,
flinty, real,
democratic,
true
that's how it's
been defined
you'll question that
of course
as you should
I'll leave you to it
how powerful
eight words
can be
2B /, not
? ? ?
take shit / effoff
YEAH! ! !
zzzzz
zzz nn?
? ! ? ! ? !
- - - - -
The famous Poet Laureate
of North Dakota State
has been suspended on full pay
just because one merry day
attending a writers' conference
at a restaurant, under the influence
of the Bacchic nectar he'd imbibed
there were incidents, yet undescribed.
But his students have Larry Woiwode's promise
to deal with their theses on Dylan Thomas
and other poets. Ironic, it must seem
to all those drunk with poetry, in Academe?
It’s like an adult version of a parlour game, isn’t it?
a sorta cross between a single-handed game of patience
and a crossword puzzle where the guy who set the puzzle
is always a step at least ahead of you dammit
and knows there’s a perfect solution
only known to him, or Him
so here I am, shuffling these black-and-white
(well, kinda browny-maroon on this site)
soundless things which are supposed to be
sounds in my ear and mind which
by mad optimism forever proved somewhat
or totally wrong in experience
are supposed to come out the other end
into your ear and mind in a vaguely
similar manner – allowing for the fact
that if you’re of a critical cast then
you’ll have a superior ear and mind
to mine anyway so that’s a mess for a start
and I suppose the same applies if
you have an inferior - oh forget it
so forget for the moment
this creeping disorder of rather dumb
black and white caterpillars making their humpy
busy-legged but corporately slow
progress across the page in a
disorderly snaky line, arguing among themselves
trying to remember (ah yes, Plato,
trying to remember)    like
a Spanish bus-queue, whom they’re
behind and whom they’re in front of
if and when the bus comes, while they
chatter in little groups among themselves –
where was I, ah yes, forget
the black-and-white on paper, and rhyme
or not, and all that technical stuff
which you’re not suppose to notice anyway
and know that what
I really want to do is
take your two hands gently in mine and
smiling, look you straight in the eye
and say
when all’s said and done
and that may take a little time,
and to coin a cliché which
I’m not apologising for, but
forget it’s supposed to be poetry and
listen to my sincere voice saying
isn’t it a wonderful world?
I have no silver-saddled horse to ride,
no inheritance to live on,
neither riches no real-estate --
a pot of honey is all I own.
A pot of honey
red as fire!
My honey is my everything.
I guard
my riches and my real-estate
-- my honey pot, I mean --
from pests of every species,
Brother, just wait...
As long as I've got
honey in my pot,
bees will come to it
from Timbuktu...
Trans. by Mutlu Konuk and Randy Blasing (1993)
Upon this cozy couch I sit.
It’s here the verses, I have writ
Flow forth from my creative grunting,
Some in humor, some affronting.
From whence the writings, I’m loath to say,
They’re just a lark, akin to play.
A pastime needing not a prod,
With some attempts being rather odd.
The spark for some, my risible striving,
Arrive out of the blue, from life, observing.
More sensitive themes come right from the heart,
When those true notions I seek to impart.
Who would fancy my meager efforts?
I’ll expect no applause from the experts!
Nor assume enchantment as they read,
Just reassurance, rather than impede.
So we’ll simply press on, my muse and me,
Occasionally launching out on a poetry spree.
Searching my brain for a pretense to write,
Trusting the results are not a literary blight.
'Naff' comes back as 'cutting-edge'...
though dogs may have their day,
doggerel may have nine lives...
I guess it's here to stay...
Chaucer is dead; and Gower lies in grave;
The Earl of Surrey long ago is gone;
Sir Philip Sidney's soul the heavens have;
George Gascoigne him before was tombed in stone.
Yet, though their bodies lie full low in ground,
As every thing must die that erst was born,
Their living fame no fortune can confound,
Nor ever shall their labors be forlorn.
And you, that discommend sweet poetry,
(So that the subject of the same be good)
Here may you see your fond simplicity,
Sith kings have favored it, of royal blood.
The King of Scots (now living) is a poet,
As his Lepanto and his Furies show it.
Funny, I’ve been writing
For a very long time.
I’ve written about love
I’ve written about hate
I’ve written about war
I’ve written about peace
I’ve written about snow
I’ve written about time
I’ve written about the meaning
Of my death.
And I’ve written some lines
That I should have erased,
I’ve written about running,
And leaving this place.
I’ve written a thousand words
Trying to understand men
And another thousand
To understand sin.
But mostly I write
To understand life
To feel what its for
To know what is right.
And the few more words
That I have In my pen,
Is all I have;
My poems and my friends.
I.
While envious crowds the summit view,
Where Danger with Ambition strays;
Or far, with anxious step, pursue
Pale Av'rice, thro' his winding ways;
The selfish passions in their train,
Whose force the social ties unbind,
And chill the love of human kind,
And make fond Nature's best emotions vain;
II.
O, poesy! O nymph most dear,
To whom I early gave my heart,--
Whose voice is sweetest to my ear
Of aught in nature or in art;
Thou, who canst all my breast controul,
Come, and thy harp of various cadence bring,
And long with melting music swell the string
That suits the present temper of my soul.
III.
O! ever gild my path of woe,
And I the ills of life can bear;
Let but thy lovely visions glow,
And chase the forms of real care;
O still, when tempted to repine
At partial Fortune's frown severe,
Wipe from my eyes the anxious tear,
And whisper that thy soothing joys are mine!
IV.
When did my fancy ever frame
A dream of joy by thee unblest?
When first my lips pronounc'd thy name,
New pleasure warm'd my infant breast.
I lov'd to form the jingling rhyme,
The measur'd sounds, tho' rude, my ear could please,
Could give the little pains of childhood ease,
And long have sooth'd the keener pains of time.
V.
The idle crowd in fashion's train,
Their trifling comment, pert reply,
Who talk so much, yet talk in vain,
How pleas'd for thee, O nymph, I fly!
For thine is all the wealth of mind,
Thine the unborrow'd gems of thought;
The flash of light by souls refin'd,
From heav'n's empyreal source exulting caught.
VI.
And ah! when destin'd to forego
The social hour with those I love,--
That charm which brightens all below,
That joy all other joys above,
And dearer to this breast of mine,
O Muse! than aught thy magic power can give,--
Then on the gloom of lonely sadness shine,
And bid thy airy forms around me live.
VII.
Thy page, O SHAKESPEARE ! let me view,
Thine! at whose name my bosom glows;
Proud that my earliest breath I drew
In that blest isle where SHAKESPEARE rose!
Where shall my dazzled glances roll?
Shall I pursue gay Ariel's flight?
Or wander where those hags of night
With deeds unnam'd shall freeze my trembling soul?
VIII.
Plunge me, foul sisters! in the gloom
Ye wrap around yon blasted heath:
To hear the harrowing rite I come,
That calls the angry shades from death!
Away--my frighted bosom spare!
Let true Cordelia pour her filial sigh,
Let Desdemona lift her pleading eye,
And poor Ophelia sing in wild despair!
IX.
When the bright noon of summer streams
In one wide flash of lavish day,
As soon shall mortal count the beams,
As tell the powers of SHAKESPEARE'S lay!
O, Nature's Poet! the untaught,
The simple mind thy tale pursues,
And wonders by what art it views
The perfect image of each native thought.
X.
In those still moments, when the breast,
Expanded, leaves its cares behind,
Glows by some higher thought possest,
And feels the energies of mind;
Then, awful MILTON , raise the veil
That hides from human eye the heav'nly throng!
Immortal sons of light! I hear your song,
I hear your high-tun'd harps creation hail!
XI
Well might creation claim your care,
And well the string of rapture move,
When all was perfect, good, and fair,
When all was music, joy, and love!
Ere Evil's inauspicious birth
Chang'd Nature's harmony to strife;
And wild Remorse, abhorring life,
And deep Affliction, spread their shade on earth.
XII
Blest Poesy! O, sent to calm
The human pains which all must feel,
Still shed on life thy precious balm,
And every wound of nature heal!
Is there a heart of human frame
Along the burning track of torrid light,
Or 'mid the fearful waste of polar night,
That never glow'd at thy inspiring name?
XIII.
Ye Southern Isles,* emerg'd so late
Where the Pacific billow rolls,
Witness, though rude your simple state,
How heav'n-taught verse can melt your souls!
Say, when you hear the wand'ring bard,
How thrill'd ye listen to his lay,
By what kind arts ye court his stay,--
All savage life affords his sure reward.
XIV.
So, when great HOMER 'S chiefs prepare,
Awhile from War's rude toils releas'd,
The pious hecatomb, and share
The flowing bowl, and genial feast:
Some heav'nly minstrel sweeps the lyre,
While all applaud the poet's native art;
For him they heap the viand's choicest part,
And copious goblets crown the Muse's fire.
XV.
Ev'n here , in scenes of pride and gain,
Where faint each genuine feeling glows;
Here , Nature asks, in want and pain,
The dear illusions verse bestows;
The poor, from hunger, and from cold,
Spare one small coin, the ballad's price,
Admire their poet's quaint device,
And marvel much at all his rhymes unfold.
XVI.
Ye children, lost in forests drear,
Still o'er your wrongs each bosom grieves,
And long the red-breast shall be dear,
Who strew'd each little corpse with leaves;
For you my earliest tears were shed,
For you the gaudy doll I pleas'd forsook,
And heard, with hands uprais'd, and eager look,
The cruel tale, and wish'd ye were not dead!
XVII.
And still on Scotia's northern shore,
"At times, between the rushing blast,"
Recording mem'ry loves to pour
The mournful song of ages past;
Come, lonely Bard "of other years!"
While dim the half-seen moon of varying skies,
While sad the wind along the grey moss sighs,
And give my pensive heart "the joy of tears!"
XVIII.
The various tropes that splendour dart
Around the modern poet's line,
Where, borrow'd from the sphere of art,
Unnumber'd gay allusions shine,
Have not a charm my breast to please
Like the blue mist, the meteor's beam,
The dark-brow'd rock, the mountain stream,
And the light thistle waving in the breeze.
XIX.
Wild Poesy, in haunts sublime,
Delights her lofty note to pour;
She loves the hanging rock to climb,
And hear the sweeping torrent roar!
The little scene of cultur'd grace
But faintly her expanded bosom warms;
She seeks the daring stroke, the awful charms,
Which Nature's pencil throws on Nature's face.
XX.
O, Nature! thou whose works divine
Such rapture in this breast inspire,
As makes me dream one spark is mine
Of Poesy's celestial fire;
When doom'd, "in cities pent," to leave
The kindling morn's unfolding view,
Which ever wears some aspect new,
And all the shadowy forms of soothing eve;
XXI.
Then, THOMSON , then be ever near,
And paint whatever season reigns;
Still let me see the varying year,
And worship Nature in thy strains;
Now, when the wint'ry tempests roll,
Unfold their dark and desolating form,
Rush in the savage madness of the storm,
And spread those horrors that exalt my soul!
XXII.
And, POPE the music of thy verse
Shall winter's dreary gloom dispel,
And fond remembrance oft rehearse
The moral song she knows so well;
The sportive sylphs shall flutter here,--
There Eloise, in anguish pale,
"Kiss with cold lips the sacred veil,
"And drop with every bead too soft a tear!"
XXIII.
When disappointment's sick'ning pain
With chilling sadness numbs my breast,
That feels its dearest hope was vain,
And bids its fruitless struggles rest;
When those for whom I wish to live,
With cold suspicion wrong my aching heart;
Or, doom'd from those for ever lov'd to part,
And feel a sharper pang than death can give;
XXIV.
Then with the mournful Bard I go,
Whom "melancholy mark'd her own,"
While tolls the curfew, solemn, slow,
And wander amid graves unknown;
With yon pale orb, lov'd poet, come!
While from those elms long shadows spread,
And where the lines of light are shed,
Read the fond record of the rustic tomb!
XXV.
Or let me o'er old Conway's flood
Hang on the frowning rock, and trace
The characters that, wove in blood,
Stamp'd the dire fate of EDWARD'S race;
Proud tyrant! tear thy laurell'd plume;
How poor thy vain pretence to deathless fame!
The injur'd Muse records thy lasting shame,
And she has power to "ratify thy doom."
XXVI.
Nature, when first she smiling came,
To wake within the human breast
The sacred Muse's hallow'd flame,
And earth, with heav'n's rich spirit blest!
Nature in that auspicious hour,
With awful mandate, bade the Bard
The register of glory guard,
And gave him o'er all mortal honours power.
XXVII.
Can Fame on Painting's aid rely?
Or lean on Sculpture's trophy'd bust?--
The faithless colours bloom to die,
The crumbling pillar mocks its trust;
But thou, O Muse, immortal maid!
Canst paint the godlike deeds that praise inspire,
Or worth, that lives but in the mind's desire,
In tints that only shall with Nature fade!
XXVIII.
O tell me, partial nymph! what rite,
What incense sweet, what homage true,
Draws from thy fount of purest light
The flame it lends a chosen few?
Alas! these lips can never frame
The mystic vow that moves thy breast;
Yet by thy joys my life is blest,
And my fond soul shall consecrate thy name.
I read to the entire plebe class,
in two batches. Twice the hall filled
with bodies dressed alike, each toting
a copy of my book. What would my
shrink say, if I had one, about
such a dream, if it were a dream?
Question and answer time.
"Sir," a cadet yelled from the balcony,
and gave his name and rank, and then,
closing his parentheses, yelled
"Sir" again. "Why do your poems give
me a headache when I try
to understand them?" he asked. "Do
you want that?" I have a gift for
gentle jokes to defuse tension,
but this was not the time to use it.
"I try to write as well as I can
what it feels like to be human,"
I started, picking my way care-
fully, for he and I were, after
all, pained by the same dumb longings.
"I try to say what I don't know
how to say, but of course I can't
get much of it down at all."
By now I was sweating bullets.
"I don't want my poems to be hard,
unless the truth is, if there is
a truth." Silence hung in the hall
like a heavy fabric. My own
head ached. "Sir," he yelled. "Thank you. Sir."
Anonymous submission.
Nothing is given which is not taken.
Little or nothing is taken which is not freely desired,
freely, truly and fully.
"You would not seek me if you had not found me": this is
true of all that is supremely desired and admired...
"An enigma is an animal," said the hurried, harried
schoolboy:
And a horse divided against itself cannot stand;
And a moron is a man who believes in having too many
wives: what harm is there in that?
O the endless fecundity of poetry is equaled
By its endless inexhaustible freshness, as in the discovery
of America and of poetry.
Hence it is clear that the truth is not strait and narrow but infinite:
All roads lead to Rome and to poetry
and to poem, sweet poem
and from, away and towards are the same typography.
Hence the poet must be, in a way, stupid and naive and a
little child;
Unless ye be as a little child ye cannot enter the kingdom
of poetry.
Hence the poet must be able to become a tiger like Blake; a
carousel like Rilke.
Hence he must be all things to be free, for all impersonations
a doormat and a monument
to all situations possible or actual
The cuckold, the cuckoo, the conqueror, and the coxcomb.
It is to him in the zoo that the zoo cries out and the hyena:
"Hello, take off your hat, king of the beasts, and be seated,
Mr. Bones."
And hence the poet must seek to be essentially anonymous.
He must die a little death each morning.
He must swallow his toad and study his vomit
as Baudelaire studied la charogne of Jeanne Duval.
The poet must be or become both Keats and Renoir and
Keats as Renoir.
Mozart as Figaro and Edgar Allan Poe as Ophelia, stoned
out of her mind
drowning in the river called forever river and ever...
Keats as Mimi, Camille, and an aging gourmet.
He must also refuse the favors of the unattainable lady
(As Baudelaire refused Madame Sabatier when the fair
blonde summoned him,
For Jeanne Duval was enough and more than enough,
although she cuckolded him
With errand boys, servants, waiters; reality was Jeanne Duval.
Had he permitted Madame Sabatier to teach the poet a greater whiteness,
His devotion and conception of the divinity of Beauty
would have suffered an absolute diminution.)
The poet must be both Casanova and St. Anthony,
He must be Adonis, Nero, Hippolytus, Heathcliff, and
Phaedre,
Genghis Kahn, Genghis Cohen, and Gordon Martini
Dandy Ghandi and St. Francis,
Professor Tenure, and Dizzy the dean and Disraeli of Death.
He would have worn the horns of existence upon his head,
He would have perceived them regarding the looking-glass,
He would have needed them the way a moose needs a hatrack;
Above his heavy head and in his loaded eyes, black and scorched,
He would have seen the meaning of the hat-rack, above the glass
Looking in the dark foyer.
For the poet must become nothing but poetry,
He must be nothing but a poem when he is writing
Until he is absent-minded as the dead are
Forgetful as the nymphs of Lethe and a lobotomy...
("the fat weed that rots on Lethe wharf").
Some say that people
who like poetry
live in a rarefied world
populated with pretty words
and impractical thoughts
and naivete.
Yet, who among us
have to be told that a great deal
of life is drudgery and routine,
that there are bills to be paid,
that there are people who
do not wish us well.
People who love poems
know that a simple arrangement
of words will not re-arrange the world;
that ideals are sometimes
never achieved
and that simply putting
suffering into words
will not abolish it.
We poetry-lovers
do not need to be reminded
that the world is not always
turtle-doves and red roses,
but the sublime
and the magnificent
are also just as real
as the mundane.
Although I've studied poetry for thirty years
I try to keep my mouth shut and avoid reputation.
Now who is this nosy gentleman talking about my poetry
Like Yang Ching-chih
Who spoke of Hsiang Ssu everywhere he went.
Sparrows were feeding in a freezing drizzle
That while you watched turned into pieces of snow
Riding a gradient invisible
From silver aslant to random, white, and slow.
There came a moment that you couldn't tell.
And then they clearly flew instead of fell.
These pages are a river
down which a  young girl watches
her lover disappear,
and someone meditates upon
crude rhythms of a city street
and finds a suffering God.
The seasons change
and change again,
a pear tree reaches high,
a cock crows, and the chickens sit
beside a red wheelbarrow.
All the seasons of the soul
are ripened and transmuted here,
and I, the reader, disappear,
as well, into the flow.
___
*UNDERSTANDING POETRY, by Robert Penn Warren and Cleanth Brooks, has been a premier poetry textbook in high schools and colleges, in revised editions,  for 6 decades. The book is basically a luxuriously rich anthology, with commentary on poems organized into chapters to illustrate the various facets of poetics.
As one of the wrinkly-crumblies
-W.A.S.P. without the sting -
it puzzles me: in poetry,
does one good **** really deserve another?
fifty years ago - fifty, for ****'s sake -
when I was an army cadet
some squaddies used it every other word
-and since we were in Signals,
it ****ing delayed ****ing battle-orders ****ing long enough
to ****ing mow down a ****ing platoon...
and longer in ****ing Morse... - - -...
and as for ****ing semaphore...makes your ****ing arms flag...
my liberal friends
who never admit to shock
say 'it shows a.... lack of imagination';
now that's ****ing serious in ****ing poets.
outside the ****ing English-spitting world
it must seem ****ing strange
that the most-loved ****ing bodily action
is used as a ****ing swear-word -
what have you ****ers got against ****ing?
or is it a term of ****ing praise maybe?
and why still a shock-word
amongst you young lot
who get a lot more ****ing ****ing than we ever did? Dammit.
Philologically,
is it still heard
as ****ing onomatopoeic?
which makes it pretty near to ****ing S&M I'd say?
could you****ers (whom I love for your interest in poetry
I have to say)
give me, as a reasonable ****er,
a ****ing explanation?
it would be ****ing useful
poetically
And who the **** is this
'American realist' poet Charles F***offski
whom you admire so much, anyway?
Have you looked beneath the surface,
Of the greatest poems and verse,
And seen that almost always,
There seems to be an anti animal curse,
But have you not noticed,
That 'The charge of the Light Brigade',
Is about the Charge the Chickens made,
That 'Dulce et decorem est',
Is about the war in which the chickens were the best,
That Wordsworths 'Daffodils',
is about the Chickens in the hills,
That 'The Owl and the Pussycat',
Is about a Chicken,
And that is that!
The poet dies
In the perfumed night.
Every metaphor
Passing away
Into the infinity of silence
Should be embalmed;
I’m alarmed
That love never survives
After spring flowers
Fade into autumn!
Dis poetry is like a riddim dat drops
De tongue fires a riddim dat shoots like shots
Dis poetry is designed fe rantin
Dance hall style, big mouth chanting,
Dis poetry nar put yu to sleep
Preaching follow me
Like yu is blind sheep,
Dis poetry is not Party Political
Not designed fe dose who are critical.
Dis poetry is wid me when I gu to me bed
It gets into me dreadlocks
It lingers around me head
Dis poetry goes wid me as I pedal me bike
IÕve tried Shakespeare, respect due dere
But did is de stuff I like.
Dis poetry is not afraid of going ina book
Still dis poetry need ears fe hear an eyes fe hav a look
Dis poetry is Verbal Riddim, no big words involved
An if I hav a problem de riddim gets it solved,
IÕve tried to be more romantic, it does nu good for me
So I tek a Reggae Riddim an build me poetry,
I could try be more personal
But youÕve heard it all before,
Pages of written words not needed
Brain has many words in store,
Yu could call dis poetry Dub Ranting
De tongue plays a beat
De body starts skanking,
Dis poetry is quick an childish
Dis poetry is fe de wise an foolish,
Anybody can do it fe free,
Dis poetry is fe yu an me,
DonÕt stretch yu imagination
Dis poetry is fe de good of de Nation,
Chant,
In de morning
I chant
In de night
I chant
In de darkness
An under de spotlight,
I pass thru University
I pass thru Sociology
An den I got a dread degree
In Dreadfull Ghettology.
Dis poetry stays wid me when I run or walk
An when I am talking to meself in poetry I talk,
Dis poetry is wid me,
Below me an above,
Dis poetry's from inside me
It goes to yu
WID LUV.
Get down
Poetry hound
You be my clown
Struck down
uptown
turn around
down town
small frown
from brown
evening gown
with crown
pronoun
done drown
and there was the knocking on the door
that we were expecting
and it was the man
that we were expecting
with the questions we were expecting
to which answers were expected
by those who expect answers
as if life were like that
which for writers it is not
yes, tea was drunk
and after tea the tape recorder set up
so that what I said
I would continue to say
somewhere else
even when I changed my mind
here and nowhere else
and he said Ms Stein
what do you think of American poetry
and we said well it's American
and it's poetry
that's as it should be
and really that's all there is to say
and the man looked disappointed
so we asked him did he read poetry
and he said poetry no I dont read poetry
but my editor does
so I said it's really about Americans
living their lives
that's what American poetry is really about
because Americans move around
and so their words move around and
words in English have lost their intensity
but American words are always on the move
and they are more intense
yes, Americans living among Americans
and talking to their neighbours
if it's not about that
it's not really American poetry at all is it
if it's not about that
then why bother writing poetry
and the man was asking about a rose
being a rose being a rose and we said
for a hundred years the rose
has not been red in poetry
but now for the first time in a hundred years
the rose is red again
and the man looked at his watch
and said thank you Ms Stein
and was switching off his tape recorder
and a month later that
was what we said
in a  magazine much read
by Americans who mostly
are not poets no very few but we said it
we know that this is so
because we read it there
and we think that really
that was all there was to say
because that was all we think
is really important
about American Poetry
that the words move like Americans move
and that is exciting for a writer
and that is the important thing about
American Poetry
Ein Gedicht ist nicht
was ein duemmlicher Wicht
schreibt auf's Klopapier
in der Hoffnung dass wir
uns beim Lesen erfreuen
doch wir wuerden's bereuen
denn wie Goethe, der Dichter,
auf'm Friedhof da liecht 'er.
A poem can't be
what a he or a she
jots on toilet paper
with the hope that this caper
will bring joy to us all.
Real poets stand tall,
HE  rests quite contrary
in a cemetary.
Dark cypresses--
The world is uneasily happy;
It will all be forgotten.
--Theodore Storm
Mother of roots, you have not seeded
The tall ashes of loneliness
For me. Therefore,
Now I go.
If I knew the name,
Your name, all trellises of vineyards and old fire
Would quicken to shake terribly my
Earth, mother of spiraling searches, terrible
Fable of calcium, girl. I crept this afternoon
In weeds once more,
Casual, daydreaming you might not strike
Me down. Mother of window sills and journeys,
Hallower of searching hands,
The sight of my blind man makes me want to weep.
Tiller of waves or whatever, woman or man,
Mother of roots or father of diamonds,
Look: I am nothing.
I do not even have ashes to rub into my eyes.
Poems, like poets, have much to say -
They may describe a rainy day,
They may sing love songs light and gay
Or speak of deep despair;
Some poems are short and oh, so sweet -
Some complex  and indescreet,
Some say nothing at all concrete
Just words that make no sense;
The poet knows what the poet means -
He may be writing about his dreams,
Or nothing more than a hill of beans
To catch the readers eye;
Why must poets follow rules?
Rhyme, and meter  and other tools
Sometimes dull  poetic jewels
Detracting from the flow;
Just open up and let it fly,
You'll never know unless you try -
Write poems that make the readers cry
Regardless of the form;
I like to call it hasslefree -
This personal type of poetry
That has a style uniquely 'me' -
Totally unpredictable!
Only a little more
I have to write:
Then I'll give o'er,
And bid the world good-night.
'Tis but a flying minute,
That I must stay,
Or linger in it:
And then I must away.
O Time, that cut'st down all,
And scarce leav'st here
Memorial
Of any men that were;
--How many lie forgot
In vaults beneath,
And piece-meal rot
Without a fame in death?
Behold this living stone
I rear for me,
Ne'er to be thrown
Down, envious Time, by thee.
Pillars let some set up
If so they please;
Here is my hope,
And my Pyramides.
When the King of Siam disliked a courtier,
he gave him a beautiful white elephant.
The miracle beast deserved such ritual
that to care for him properly meant ruin.
Yet to care for him improperly was worse.
It appears the gift could not be refused.
Apologies, folks
for slipping this one in
under the guise of a poem
but isn't it great
to open this site's window
and find 20 poems
by 20 poets
several for the first time
making a fantastically rich hour or two
just reading them
such as never could have happened
a few years ago
(three cheers for webmaster)
I know that some of us
write umpteen poems a day
but could you please
space them out, just one or two each day
so I can read them without hurrying?
Apologies again, and
consider this as really
a poem
in praise of poetry?
which it is.
I ask them to take a poem
and hold it up to the light
like a color slide
or press an ear against its hive.
I say drop a mouse into a poem
and watch him probe his way out,
or walk inside the poem's room
and feel the walls for a light switch.
I want them to waterski
across the surface of a poem
waving at the author's name on the shore.
But all they want to do
is tie the poem to a chair with rope
and torture a confession out of it.
They begin beating it with a hose
to find out what it really means.
Last night I wrestled with poetry
As if a lion wrestling with its prey
I sleep poetry
I dream poetry
I walk poetry on thin line ropes
binding together steeply slopes
I make love to poetry like a new catch
On heat waiting to be let loose from its latch
So out of ten if I am bad, take a pen
And give me a score of five or a four
I constantly make love to poetry
With dramatic grammatical metaphors
The root of my poetic hunger
Is I starve myself a bit longer
In sleep I twiddle my poetic lines
Sharpen them to be as fine as a riddle
I sleep poetry
I drink poetry
Not just to quench my thirst
But to differentiate amongst
Good, Better and Best
There shall come the day
I have to say
When I will definitely call it a truce
When I have run out of poetic juice
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Good neighbour Lloyd did
suggest to write a poem
'bout defaecation.
I told him No, No
some things are best kept private
he defaecated.
Good taste is precious
I told my vulgar neighbour
he grinned, 'I know that'.
and right now, I’m spending most of my time
on the two matters of which I seem to know the least –
love; and poetry.
maybe it’s good I feel like this; after all,
they’re two pretty big things in their way;
and if it’s frustrating that
I don’t seem to get anywhere,
or understand any more,
maybe that’s good too since
it keeps me at it
and out of harm’s way
as they say
let’s take poetry first – that’s
relatively straightforward:
one day I love the freedom
of the current situation – there’s no rules
except, the lines are short –
but even that, you can break
with ‘prose poems’ (and leave it
to others to say when 'prose poems'
become ‘poetic prose’ etc…) :
tell the unvarnished truth,
tell it like it is; offer all your heart
ungiftwrapped;
then next day I miss the music
of a poem that – with some difficulty –
rhymes and dances in its rhythms,
catches you in its woven spell,
reads as if it wrote itself,
sings its own fair song,
even though of course
the rhyme then makes you deviate
from the theme – but that can take you to
more interesting places in the mind —
so - point of this - I’m none the wiser
about what poetry is; though of course
maybe there’s some benefit I just don’t spot
by kinda mixing thisnthat..
so, when I’m not writing this stuff
that I call poetry, if I call it anything,
I’m addressing the question
of love; in the hope
that thinking about it might just be
of some use; influence action; and
make me more loving; or help me
write poetry about it, ha..
well don’t ask me, not just yet..
though, we all know what love is...
when it’s on our side?
one day, I feel good that I’ve spent the day
reading inspiring words, like,
the whole Creation is one single act
of love; that it brought the whole universe
into manifestation; sustains it; merges all things into love;
that love is knowledge; holds all forms
through law, by law; that law and love
are always together; that love’s
the natural state of ourself; that
every creature has pure love within its nature;
that thus, it’s our very nature
to love one another; love
our neighbour as ourself…
even, love ourselves...
then the next day, I can’t bear
to read any more of what’s written
about love; just spend the day in love
with everything and everyone;
being still a little, listening to music a little,
reading inspiring poetry a little,
going out or not going out,
being just myself a lot; seeing things around
inside the house and out
so vividly, it’s like being high
without the before and after, and
I wonder why it isn’t
always just like this..
then the next day again, I’m just too busy
to give thought to thinking about love,
or being loving to those bloody neighbours
then the doorbell rings – and
I greet whoever it is before
I even look at them, as if
they’re the one person out of all the world
I most wanted to see again right now – and
it’s someone to read the meter –'hallo!
what, again so soon? I’ve only just paid
the last bill, and anyway, it always comes
as ‘estimated’, and too high…'
too late – I’ve loved them totally
in that first moment; I'm like
someone else; I find myself
treating them like an honoured guest;
see them out with a friendly comment; feel good;
a sorta indifferent, unthought, unshaped happiness..
maybe there’s something to be discovered
in all this love thing,
whatever it is.. maybe
I’ll go try to write a poem about it,
see where it goes
[This poem is dedicated to the memory of Bukowski, the poet
who taught us to write it like it is - even if his later work...]
I once wrote some poetry - the best,
the finest POETRY
My POETRY came with a capital
"P".
My POETRY was distinguished
POETRY, proper, complete line of
Verse POETRY - honorable,
prehistoric, geographical POETRY
Divine, instinctive, even religious
POETRY -
I sent it to the magazines
The very good magazines
The very best magazines -
They returned it to me every time!
I once wrote some inferior POETRY
Low in style, irregular in measure
POETRY
Undignified, trivial, absurd POETRY
inadequate, mischievous, comic
POETRY
Some stuff like this - A CRIME -
I sent it to the magazines
The very good magazines
The very best magazines
They kept it every time!
Now, I ask of you - my question is
fair and brief - I ask
Of you - your ear I pray and beg you
give -
Shall I write intuitive,
comprehensive, reasoning
POETRY
Specific, Godlike, Capitol
committed POETRY
The sort I think will live?
Or shall I write inferior, very bad
POETRY - the kind that soon is
Dead - and send it to the magazines,
the very good, the best magazines
THAT I MAY LIVE INSTEAD!!!
WHen first Alexis did in Verse delight,
His Muse in Low, but Graceful Numbers walk't,
And now and then a little Proudly stalk't;
But never aim'd at any noble Flight:
The Herds, the Groves, the gentle purling Streams,
Adorn'd his Song, and were his highest Theams.
But Love these Thoughts, like Mists, did soon disperse,
Enlarg'd his Fancy, and set free his Muse,
Biding him more Illustrious Subjects choose;
The Acts of Gods, and God-like Men reherse.
From thence new Raptures did his Breast inspire,
His scarce Warm-Heart converted was to Fire.
Th' exalted Poet rais'd by this new Flame,
With Vigor flys, where late he crept along,
And Acts Divine, in a Diviner Song,
Commits to the eternal Trompe of Fame.
And thus Alexis does prove Love to be,
As the Worlds Soul, the Soul of Poetry.
For us there is an expression
Of significant emotions
Emotion is alive in poems
Not in the poet's dark stained past.
Emotions are not personal,
Art is also not personal;
What he writes is not Life itself
But Life's emotion translated.
Poetry is not seen or heard
But to be seen through & heard from;
It shows us a picture, tells a tale
Though that is not it in itself.
You who doubt of this being so
But have a mind to conceive thoughts
And sensibilities to feel
The disorder, the futility,
Meaninglessness and suffering,
The mysteries of existence -
You and only you will find peace:
In poems we are all reconciled.
`
If you peruse deeply, you will come toy our finding
That modern Indian English poetry initially began with
The stray poems and one books on the anvil
And they were not established writers, but were the beginners,
The amateur ones promising to add to the corpus,
But now you may call et cetera, et cetera.
The poem of the mind in the act of finding
What will suffice. It has not always had
To find: the scene was set; it repeated what
Was in the script.
Then the theatre was changed
To something else. Its past was a souvenir.
It has to be living, to learn the speech of the place.
It has to face the men of the time and to meet
The women of the time. It has to think about war
And it has to find what will suffice. It has
To construct a new stage. It has to be on that stage,
And, like an insatiable actor, slowly and
With meditation, speak words that in the ear,
In the delicatest ear of the mind, repeat,
Exactly, that which it wants to hear, at the sound
Of which, an invisible audience listens,
Not to the play, but to itself, expressed
In an emotion as of two people, as of two
Emotions becoming one. The actor is
A metaphysician in the dark, twanging
An instrument, twanging a wiry string that gives
Sounds passing through sudden rightnesses, wholly
Containing the mind, below which it cannot descend,
Beyond which it has no will to rise.
It must
Be the finding of a satisfaction, and may
Be of a man skating, a woman dancing, a woman
Combing. The poem of the act of the mind.
when i think
of all the clean words
i used to use on you
and how
they've become vernacular
for having been attached
to one so lowly
i think
how poetry will never be
uttered in the same manner
instead
the language takes on your stench
poor english venom
and cigarette smoke
i've dissected
abbreviated so much
the vowels now longer sound
long or short
they just whimper
``With Donne, whose muse on dromedary trots,
Wreathe iron pokers into true-love knots ;
Rhyme's sturdy cripple, fancy's maze and clue,
Wit's forge and fire-blast, meaning's press and screw.''
On the cover
of those old black hymnbooks
in those old dark churches
you can just about read
'Hymns Ancient and Modern'
As time goes by,
'ancient' gets a longer and longer history
and curiously so too
does 'modern'
A friend once asked why I write poetry.
Judging by the pinched look on her face,
she might as well have asked why I juggle snakes.
In thinking on the matter,
it’s like having a sneeze that won’t come.
When it finally does, it just feels good.
A poet understands...
To my friend, I simply said
there are things inside that must come out.
They are uncomfortable where they are,
like having a mosquito bite that you can’t quite reach.
When you find someone to scratch it,
it just feels good.
Oops, gotta go.
I feel a poetic sneeze coming on
and it’s gonna feel
so     good.
At night, around ten
I will reach for my pen
and with caution and glee
write some good poetry
On vacation in Cairo
in Egyptian heat
I had only a biro
and a papyrus sheet.
Faithful to your commandments, o consciousness, o
Holy bird of words soaring ever whether to nothingness or
to inconceivable fulfillment slowly:
And still I follow you, awkward as that dandy of ontology
and as awkward as his albatross and as
another dandy of ontology before him, another shepherd
and watchdog of being, the one who
Talked forever of forever as if forever of having been
and being an ancient mariner,
Hesitant forever as if forever were the albatross
Hung round his neck by the seven seas of the seven muses,
and with as little conclusion, since being never concludes,
Studying the sibilance and the splashing of the seas and of
seeing and of being's infinite seas,
Staring at the ever-blue and the far small stars and
the faint white endless curtain of the
twinkling play's endless seasons.
The finite contemplating the infinite
The stardust male and female still flush with light
From exploding stars, seeding new possibilities, our true progenitors.
So that even God Himself must take note of our passing (in its season) ,
Such elemental purity of spirit, such shining stock do we hail from.
Thinkers cannot grasp the number of galaxies the universe holds
Let alone name them or divine their future, human brains too slow,
More galaxies than all the grains of sand from every beach on the planet.
Where once this metaphor was applied loosely to stars alone,
Now galaxies are what might be counted, counting stars unimaginable.
Oh we are clever and have our tricks to make us look wise,
Like when we prove that one kind of infinity is bigger than another,
But all infinities are truly beyond our ken, mere children who count
‘One, two, three, many, ' and think we have accomplished something.
In our childish wonder we are only newly aware of galactic reach,
Theoretically sure now that our universe does have a furthest edge,
But totally unaware of its dimensions or of its actual shape.
New maps of different galaxy locations in space surprise us too
As the distribution of galaxies follows an unimagined ribbon like pattern.
Galaxies are NOT evenly distributed throughout the mapped universe
But shoot off in flares like star shells on the 4th of July!
We are dreamers who woke one day to discover that once fixed stars
Are now time machines to those with eyes to see, revealing our past,
And to those with ears to hear comes the certain knowledge of the Big Bang.
Now, vision enhanced by scientific revelation, we can share with God,
‘Seek and you shall find, ' being the foundational faith of Science,
The wonders of this creation, several billion years past, naked before us,
As if we were there, reveling in its wonders (though now a cosmic rerun) ,
Sharing a nice glass of Merlot with God in front of His Big Screen,
(The miracle of buttered popcorn always tender, hot, and fresh! Yum!) ,
Looking back to times when even laws of physics had not matured yet,
Laws, which, perhaps, like human beings, still evolve, biding their time.
But tantalizingly fresh is the QUESTION of other universes
Which now skips across the surface of human thought horizon like a stone
Every bounce suggesting another universe's possibility,
And every impact seemingly perfectly elastic, with no loss of energy,
Leaving another new universe in its wake,
Rippling outward like concentric waves from a whale's breach,
On a salt sea/air interface that reflects our astonishment like a mirror!
God's kind of Poetry, a window into infinity,
A scaled down version of Divinity, almost human in fact,
The footprints of God's Son along a sea curving with the earth's surface,
Distant realities always just out of sight, but there still.
Calling us into service, calling us too to be Fishers of human souls,
To love to heights and depths beyond our understanding,
And in so doing, to in fact become God's Children,
Trusting Love, knowing Love, feeling Love, giving Love…
Millions of Prophets, Buddhas, Saints, Poets, all siblings of the Christ,
A living poem, universally true, surfeit of God's imagination,
Novice initiates of a Grace that fills every nook and cranny,
Penetrates all flesh, all bone, and saturates soul like a sponge.
In poetry's fond verse we save
All matters of the heart,
Our thoughts that may be sweet or grave,
With which we'd hate to part.
Our fears of what may come to pass,
Our sadness at what has,
The desperate state of pain's impasse,
A human Alcatraz.
The lessons that pain teaches us,
Road signs, in fact to joy,
Our God's reforming animus,
Love's armor for schoolboy.
Remembering that pain serves man,
Is always hard to do,
Puts limits on outrageous plan,
Helps vanity subdue.
Our owning of the father God,
The highest we can reach,
Releasing our own dreams slipshod
For what He has to teach.
i did not know sin meant chains
so full of them all over my physique
and i did not know the deceptive apple
could lead to this woeful state
only god now is boundless freedom
the paradise boundless freedom
rhe sky boundless freedom
the sea  boundless freedom
and to enjoy all these now in chain,
boundless the hurt is the heart
injurious chain on every inch of my physique
that jolts me for their wants
every minute of the day
and to know that i will pass this chain
down to every of my offsprings
binding them down to earth
till they become just dust and bones
chained, chained, chained,
this hateful long chain the devil spawned
that laid end to end
could snake its way round the world
this hateful chain that circles the body
imprisons it, hurtful as red hot iron
how stealthily it works day by day
tightening its grip
till i am wrinkled, bent, and bedridden
till only the last breath would release me
of its curse
this chain that torture me for wordly needs
oh god, how hateful you are
to bind me in these red hot chains! ! !
note:
chain refers to the blood vessels round our body
they indeed resemble a chain
as never did adam experience hunger
until this chain exacted its wants
poetry
giving myself a chance
to come out of myself
poetry
the roses
fragrance
poetry
the blood
of my soul
i am poetry
a baby naked
crying my heart
out as  i am thrust
into the new world
echoing to it
another realm
i love the way i am
every cell of myself
because i love myself
i am loved in return
i am so loved i am
on the lips of
everybody
bouncing in
their joys and sadness,
triumphs and failures
to give them self worth
of the most meaningful kind
- the tramps, the tycoons
the princes, the princesses,
the secret lovers
the kings and the queens
i am poetry
i am a baby loved
for my innocence, rawness
i am clothed in
a million different ways
i have no complaints
so long as they bring
out the rainbow in me
words rhymed or unrhymed
do not bother me
suits, dresses,
saris, kimonos
kilt, loinclothes,
fundoshi
you name it,
i have been in them
i am poetry
i come out of everybody
a thousand million strains of
individual heaven and hell
of all, my worst nemesis
ae those who are
so lost in themselves
they put pants on my head,
socks on my hands,
gloves on my feet
hang a million
bright accessories
on me  and proudly
declare me poetry
poetry is not the rain
poetry is how the rain
beats down on your path
poetry is not in the man
poetry is how you open
his heart with your smile
poetry is not in the flowers
poetry is how you can use them
to help your friends bloom
yesterday, today, tomorrow
poetry is not the sea
poetry is how you spread your
laughter over its surging water
and count your blessing with
every shell you pick up
poetry is that
schoolgirl
junior high
you have
known for
three years
but never talk to
she is always
at  the corner
of everywhere
by herself
living out
the world
of her own
harbouring
a dream
beautiful as
rainbow
poetry is
that junior
school girl
at the corner
of your class
you never talk to
but have always
wanted to
poetry is
that girl
by herself
harbouring
a world too
entrancing for
her to extricate
herself from
poetry is
that gentle girl
at a little corner
who has an
apple garden
to be explored
and savoured
but would rather
keep quiet about it
poetry is that boy
who makes the first
move to lift the first
page of her life
to give her life
another dimension
and lets his mind
be showered
with all her graces
a real poet
who harbours
a message
takes his glory
from the sun
shines day in
and day out
lighting up
the graces of the world
his own dignified way
come rain,
come thunder,
come lightning
he  never lets go
of his vision
lighting up the world
with triumph
enthusiasm
uplifted spirit
a real poet
helps others
find a path
with life
helps the
world realise
the power
of verses
- in realising
life
in so many levels
the refreshing taste of
dawn mist and sunshine,
mountain loam rolled up
in tender brown leaves
and now unveiled through
spring water
they are the simple joy
that raises  the morning sun
up into my sky
i dont need that many
readers, just a few who
care to weigh every word
to see how much they are worth
they  too are my tea that elevates
the sun up my sky
those wishing to learn writing good haiku should
start first by writing spooky haikus;
midnight
bus leaves me in the shadow
of a haunted house
midnight park
the swing suddenly
creaks
dark corridor
passing by the unit
a man hung himself
ghost festival
hell money trails
the night wind
night clothesline
below the white table clothes
feet
why poetry?
to realise that
a simple smile
can mean so
many things
and interpreted
in so many ways
that there is
always a fresh way
to look at things
the way god
has been able
to give each of us
a new way to
experience  things
a cross puzzle
he  challenges us
to find the uniqueness
he  has meant for
all of us to be
languages, geographies
genes, religions
universes, angels...
every facet that helps
a diamond to sparkle
its own way
Poetry,
you are an electric,
a magic, field--like the space
between a sleepwalker's outheld arms!
Religions are poems. They concert
our daylight and dreaming mind, our
emotions, instinct, breath and native gesture
into the only whole thinking: poetry.
Nothing's said till it's dreamed out in words
and nothing's true that figures in words only.
A poem, compared with an arrayed religion,
may be like a soldier's one short marriage night
to die and live by. But that is a small religion.
Full religion is the large poem in loving repetition;
like any poem, it must be inexhaustible and complete
with turns where we ask Now why did the poet do that?
You can't pray a lie, said Huckleberry Finn;
you can't poe one either. It is the same mirror:
mobile, glancing, we call it poetry,
fixed centrally, we call it a religion,
and God is the poetry caught in any religion,
caught, not imprisoned. Caught as in a mirror
that he attracted, being in the world as poetry
is in the poem, a law against its closure.
There'll always be religion around while there is poetry
or a lack of it. Both are given, and intermittent,
as the action of those birds - crested pigeon, rosella parrot -
who fly with wings shut, then beating, and again shut.
The day my doctor died of smoking
I bought myself a fat cigar -
I realised he must be joking,
His funeral was so bizarre:
A dwarf in multi-coloured clothing
Sang louder than the parish choir
And though my heart was full of loathing
I leapt upon the funeral pyre.
I'd often longed for such a roasting
And knew it was my friend's desire,
I shouted out 'We'll all be toasting
In Hell's incandescent fire! '
Don't be discouraged by this story,
Smoking cigarettes is fine,
Inhale them on your days of glory
And drink your fill of rich, red wine! !
What time the poet hath hymned
The writhing maid, lithe-limbed,
Quivering on amaranthine asphodel,
How can he paint her woes,
Knowing, as well he knows,
That all can be set right with calomel?
When from the poet's plinth
The amorous colocynth
Yearns for the aloe, faint with rapturous thrills,
How can he hymn their throes
Knowing, as well he knows,
That they are only uncompounded pills?
Is it, and can it be,
Nature hath this decree,
Nothing poetic in the world shall dwell?
Or that in all her works
Something poetic lurks,
Even in colocynth and calomel?
'Listen, now, verse should be as natural
As the small tuber that feeds on muck
And grows slowly from obtuse soil
To the white flower of immortal beauty.'
'Natural, hell! What was it Chaucer
Said once about the long toil
That goes like blood to the poem's making?
Leave it to nature and the verse sprawls,
Limp as bindweed, if it break at all
Life's iron crust. Man, you must sweat
And rhyme your guts taut, if you'd build
Your verse a ladder.'
'You speak as though
No sunlight ever surprised the mind
Groping on its cloudy path.'
'Sunlight's a thing that needs a window
Before it enter a dark room.
Windows don't happen.'
So two old poets,
Hunched at their beer in the low haze
Of an inn parlour, while the talk ran
Noisily by them, glib with prose.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
I thought poetry is
-nubile beauty where lustfulness decorate unstable life
-nude bathing of a juvenile girl in the raining pond
-wrestle mania game of beauty queen Charlotte Flair
-heartthrob sex game of porn actress Angela White
I thought poetry is
-late reaching ship of Apollo Temple and more philosophic discussion of Socrates
-drinking hemlock of Socrates in smiling on the bed of dead truth
I thought poetry is
-as the usual, sun rising and setting down
-as usual moonlight honeymoon at night
-intercourse of animal and breeding offspring
I thought poetry is
-war for the country and religion, remembered martyrdom
-greeting death smiling on the belief of getting heaven
-killing people to satisfy God or the kings-queens will
I thought poetry is
-new inventions and discovering on the nobel prizes subjects
-Oscar winning film, actors, actresses and red carpet walkers
I thought poetry is
-Holy verses of God for the wise peoples and hymn reciting for the others
-buying and selling of love and hate or of peace and irritation
My thinking is just thinking
As like as new born baby's blink!
But poetry is poetry,
more than any thinking, many more;
On its path
Poetry is independent fully
-June 10,2019 Chattogram
When I was very young,
Poetry
was written by
AA Milne.
and life was comfy.
When I was an adolescent,
Poetry
was written by
pansies for pansies about pansies.
though daffodils
were lifestyle and exam-inable.
and life was scary
When I was at college,
Poetry
was written by
a chap in a leather jacket
who glared at you angrily
on his no-gear pushbike
as he rode out to save the world.
and life was a cold war and still scary.
When I was middle-aged,
Poetry
was in the assured embrace
of the Arts Council and a chap at the BBC
and the world managed quite well without poets
but life was still scary.
Now
I am old enough
to swop lifestyle notes with Jenny Joseph,
Poetry
means that
a poem's 'text' may be
i h8 u
BUT
it's read right round the world
by lots of people. Like you.
and life is full of promise...
Now that deserves a Metaphor.
'A what? ' said Pooh.
If you’ve ever tried to catch a cloud,
to ride a rainbow,
to save the sunshine in a jar.
Then you know how it feels
to strive to capture the deep thoughts
that flitter across your mind.
The shadows of thought are not
easily distinguished.
Even now,
as I sit here, just me and these thoughts,
these deep thoughts
roam the hills and valleys of my mind,
always just out of reach.
But, from the shadows of deep thinking,
Springs a ray of sunshine,
I can only seem to catch with my pen.
But when I read over what I have written,
it is only a shadow of the shadow.
For behind my poems,
are real thoughts,
real feelings,
seen only in glimpses.
For poetry is my window to the world,
And to myself.
What is poetry?
Poetry is many things
But there are far more things that poetry is not
Poetry is not a style of writing
Poetry is not a rhyme or a limerick
Poetry is not something you can read
Poetry isn't just seen or heard, but seen, heard, and felt
What is poetry, then?
I can't tell you that, no one can
But you can only know
And even then you can't tell anyone what poetry is
Because poetry isn't words
Poetry is a feeling you get in your chest
Poetry is a chill that runs through your body
Poetry is a knife that slices your soul
Poetry is experienced from within
If something rhymes and it makes sense
It may be a poem
But it isn't poetry
Can you hear your soul calling out to you?
That is poetry
Can you feel the tightness in your chest, the squeezing of your heart?
That is poetry
A boy and girl at the edge a cliff, dangerously close, leaning over the edge
Their arms outstretched, they soar
They can fly anywhere without ever leaving their perch
The sound of a flute and swirling colors
Reds, blues, greens, white and black
Harmony, a sound that goes straight through you
The midnight sky with stars that speak
What they whisper in your ear is faint
But even if you can't hear it, if you can feel it, it is poetry
A solitary wolf bounding through a forest
So graceful, paws that never touch the ground
Eyes shining brighter than the sun
The movements of the human body
Muscles within neck, arms, legs
The body is living poetry
Flex your fingers
How do they move?
Every part of you, poetry in itself
The wind blowing through an open window
Moist breeze that dampens your face, your bed
The moonlight shining through
Is poetry
But this is hardly poetry, what you read now
Because poetry isn't words
Poetry isn't what you see or hear
It is what you feel
Poetry is what you believe
What you are
what is poetry anymore/is it this? /
a parade of words/blank ants
crawling across the page/in
a series of condensed/paragraphs.
where i can read/with ease
yet wonderment/at the dreary
ludicrousness/of the universe
i can marvel/i can dream
what does it do/ it intoxicates
me/and stuns me/ with its sweet words
and leaves me/ breathless/
in a mist of white cold.
poetry/so beautiful/
and so useless/
the more i start to think/
the less i start to understand.
it
takes
a lot of
desperation
dissatisfaction
and
di sillusion
to
write
a
few
good
p oems.
it's not
for
everybody
either to
write
it
or even to
read
it
Sometimes I tremble like a storm-swept flower,
And seek to hide my tortured soul from thee.
Bowing my head in deep humility
Before the silent thunder of thy power.
Sometimes I flee before thy blazing light,
As from the specter of pursuing death;
Intimidated lest thy mighty breath,
Windways, will sweep me into utter night.
For oh, I fear they will be swallowed up--
The loves which are to me of vital worth,
My passion and my pleasure in the earth--
And lost forever in thy magic cup!
I fear, I fear my truly human heart
Will perish on the altar-stone of art!
In the same way that the mindless diamond keeps
one spark of the planet's early fires
trapped forever in its net of ice,
it's not love's later heat that poetry holds,
but the atom of the love that drew it forth
from the silence: so if the bright coal of his love
begins to smoulder, the poet hears his voice
suddenly forced, like a bar-room singer's -- boastful
with his own huge feeling, or drowned by violins;
but if it yields a steadier light, he knows
the pure verse, when it finally comes, will sound
like a mountain spring, anonymous and serene.
Beneath the blue oblivious sky, the water
sings of nothing, not your name, not mine.
GOD to his untaught children sent
Law, order, knowledge, art, from high,
And ev'ry heav'nly favour lent,
The world's hard lot to qualify.
They knew not how they should behave,
For all from Heav'n stark-naked came;
But Poetry their garments gave,
And then not one had cause for shame.
I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all
this fiddle.
Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one
discovers in
it after all, a place for the genuine.
Hands that can grasp, eyes
that can dilate, hair that can rise
if it must, these things are important not because a
high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because
they are
useful. When they become so derivative as to become
unintelligible,
the same thing may be said for all of us, that we
do not admire what
we cannot understand: the bat
holding on upside down or in quest of something to
eat, elephants pushing, a wild horse taking a roll, a tireless wolf
under
a tree, the immovable critic twitching his skin like a horse that
feels a
flea, the base-
ball fan, the statistician--
nor is it valid
to discriminate against 'business documents and
school-books'; all these phenomena are important. One must
make a distinction
however: when dragged into prominence by half poets, the
result is not poetry,
nor till the poets among us can be
'literalists of
the imagination'--above
insolence and triviality and can present
for inspection, 'imaginary gardens with real toads in them', shall
we have
it. In the meantime, if you demand on the one hand,
the raw material of poetry in
all its rawness and
that which is on the other hand
genuine, you are interested in poetry.
And it was at that age ... Poetry arrived
in search of me. I don't know, I don't know where
it came from, from winter or a river.
I don't know how or when,
no they were not voices, they were not
words, nor silence,
but from a street I was summoned,
from the branches of night,
abruptly from the others,
among violent fires
or returning alone,
there I was without a face
and it touched me.
I did not know what to say, my mouth
had no way
with names,
my eyes were blind,
and something started in my soul,
fever or forgotten wings,
and I made my own way,
deciphering
that fire,
and I wrote the first faint line,
faint, without substance, pure
nonsense,
pure wisdom
of someone who knows nothing,
and suddenly I saw
the heavens
unfastened
and open,
planets,
palpitating plantations,
shadow perforated,
riddled
with arrows, fire and flowers,
the winding night, the universe.
And I, infinitesimal being,
drunk with the great starry
void,
likeness, image of
mystery,
felt myself a pure part
of the abyss,
I wheeled with the stars,
my heart broke loose on the wind.
There is a streak of poetry in my vein
Just as there is poetry in the air
And there is poetry in the rain
There is poetry in the first smile of dawn
And poetry in the soft rays of the moon
There is poetry in a blade of grass
And poetry in the balmy evening breeze,
There is poetry riding on the roaring bluegreen waves
And poetry whispering in dark mountain caves
There is poetry in the smile of a child
Just as there is poetry in the deep green wild
Poetry is music and music is magic …..
Poetry means everything to me
My sweet, tantalizing, bewitching lady.
Poetry! ! Poetry! ! Poetry! !
Why are we addicted to Poetry?
We Poets who write,
All day or all night,
That Poetry! ! Poetry! ! Poetry! !
There’s scarce a moment in time,
That thoughts don’t find words in rhyme,
To put into verse,
Whether better or worse,
In that Poetry! ! Poetry! ! Poetry! !
Why do we write all these Verses?
We must have better things to do,
But whatever we try,
And I don’t know why,
We write Poem upon Poem for you.
It’s funny how my style has changed,
It’s a Limerick today I’ve composed,
It wasn’t meant to be,
But it is ~ you can see,
Just Poetry! ! Poetry! ! Poetry! !
© Yisroel Yonatan Goldman [JGthepoet] - 26 January 2006
poetry readings have to be some of the saddest
damned things ever,
the gathering of the clansmen and clanladies,
week after week, month after month, year
after year,
getting old together,
reading on to tiny gatherings,
still hoping their genius will be
discovered,
making tapes together, discs together,
sweating for applause
they read basically to and for
each other,
they can't find a New York publisher
or one
within miles,
but they read on and on
in the poetry holes of America,
never daunted,
never considering the possibility that
their talent might be
thin, almost invisible,
they read on and on
before their mothers, their sisters, their husbands,
their wives, their friends, the other poets
and the handful of idiots who have wandered
in
from nowhere.
I am ashamed for them,
I am ashamed that they have to bolster each other,
I am ashamed for their lisping egos,
their lack of guts.
if these are our creators,
please, please give me something else:
a drunken plumber at a bowling alley,
a prelim boy in a four rounder,
a jock guiding his horse through along the
rail,
a bartender on last call,
a waitress pouring me a coffee,
a drunk sleeping in a deserted doorway,
a dog munching a dry bone,
an elephant's fart in a circus tent,
a 6 p.m. freeway crush,
the mailman telling a dirty joke
anything
anything
but
these.
Inspired  by poem of Daniel Brick'—‘'Du Fu Visits Anne Yun''
Your visit to Anne Yun
So special
Your distant daughter
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Du Fu,
You are the warrior
Your valour
keeps guard
Against the evil forces
That corrupts the   land
You leave to your descendants
A legacy
A  garden  of lush green
Where flowers bloom
And pure sun light   falls
Your youngest daughter
Whom you have never seen
Finds the magic
Of your words
Poetry written in breeze
Poetry holds her
Your legacy flows like river
A river that never dies
Clouds collect water from river
They go floating far
and far to unknown lands
And poetry writes for them who read
Poetry lives for poetry
And daughter remembers
Du Fu
Read poetry understand poetry,
Poetry is the creator
Poetry is one who maintains
Everything and all.
Poetry is the supreme truth,
Poetry, all it is you.
Poetry is everything
And everybody and
Poetry is everywhere.
So pious - poetry
Full of nectar - poetry
Poetry is love and life.
Reiterative poetry it seems proper to say
Has seen little sunlight in present day.
Yet it represents in all regard,
The beginning as English language broached forward.
Base on Anglo Saxon and Anglo Norman tongues
Reiterative poetry sloughed reluctantly along
Combining words in ways most proper
And in some case, crudely brought to halt, a stopper.
Meanings lost or lesser known,
Words and spellings made to fit the event reported on.
Such it is that Piers Plowman was written
By William Langland and others(?)  too, in 1462.
Reiterative simply means repeat sounds; words or their beginnings
To occur at least twice in each line's soundings.
Thought to be borne on the method of basic speech
Slow and deliberate as the speaker sought to teach.
Imagine if you will the illusion the teller
Wished to instill in the entranced listener,
Pausing for effect on each word of the reiterative pair,
For emphasis that would be embedded there.
The Vision that Will viewed from his slumbers,
Was perhaps a dream of dreary numbers.
Cascading before his closed eyes,
Were temptations in their disguises.
Along the way the visions, as you will
Enticed the reader to revel,
In tales of harlots and their heady stews
Where pleasure was sought (and found)  in their due.
The Church of Rome was ragged about in play,
With fat priest in habits placed on display
Their custom of taking what they may
From the serfs and sundry workers of the day.
Then there is the use of ‘fables' to instruct,
As example, 'Belling the Cat' is one of such.
The moral of the story is two fold and more,
As the men are told they cannot be as independent mice of lore.
But should bear allegiance to the King (the cat)
Who protects, administers and all that,
Taking only 'a little' from each one
So that they can live their life in freedom.
As example, seen in France, the death of the cat
Only brings on horrors (and yet another cat) .
Langland never was quite pleased with his poem
And rewrote it several times and some.
Sometimes using reiterative style
To make his point, but when the method failed
Used free verse to get the story told
That's the way it was in days of old.
So it is related with this Reiterative Poem
Hoping to provide humble examples to some,
Who might wish to try their hand
Writing poetry, as the method properly demands.
Some -
thus not all. Not even the majority of all but the minority.
Not counting schools, where one has to,
and the poets themselves,
there might be two people per thousand.
Like -
but one also likes chicken soup with noodles,
one likes compliments and the color blue,
one likes an old scarf,
one likes having the upper hand,
one likes stroking a dog.
Poetry -
but what is poetry.
Many shaky answers
have been given to this question.
But I don't know and don't know and hold on to it
like to a sustaining railing.
Translated by Regina Grol
There is a quiet spirit in these woods,
That dwells where'er the gentle south-wind blows;
Where, underneath the white-thorn, in the glade,
The wild flowers bloom, or, kissing the soft air,
The leaves above their sunny palms outspread.
With what a tender and impassioned voice
It fills the nice and delicate ear of thought,
When the fast ushering star of morning comes
O'er-riding the gray hills with golden scarf;
Or when the cowled and dusky-sandaled Eve,
In mourning weeds, from out the western gate,
Departs with silent pace!  That spirit moves
In the green valley, where the silver brook,
From its full laver, pours the white cascade;
And, babbling low amid the tangled woods,
Slips down through moss-grown stones with endless laughter.
And frequent, on the everlasting hills,
Its feet go forth, when it doth wrap itself
In all the dark embroidery of the storm,
And shouts the stern, strong wind.  And here, amid
The silent majesty of these deep woods,
lts presence shall uplift thy thoughts from earth,
As to the sunshine and the pure, bright air
Their tops the green trees lift.  Hence gifted bards
Have ever loved the calm and quiet shades.
For them there was an eloquent voice in all
The sylvan pomp of woods, the golden sun,
The flowers, the leaves, the river on its way,
Blue skies, and silver clouds, and gentle winds,
The swelling upland, where the sidelong sun
Aslant the wooded slope, at evening, goes,
Groves, through whose broken roof the sky looks in,
Mountain, and shattered cliff, and sunny vale,
The distant lake, fountains, and mighty trees,
In many a lazy syllable, repeating
Their old poetic legends to the wind.
And this is the sweet spirit, that doth fill
The world; and, in these wayward days of youth,
My busy fancy oft embodies it,
As a bright image of the light and beauty
That dwell in nature; of the heavenly forms
We worship in our dreams, and the soft hues
That stain the wild bird's wing, and flush the clouds
When the sun sets.  Within her tender eye
The heaven of April, with its changing light,
And when it wears the blue of May, is hung,
And on her lip the rich, red rose.  Her hair
Is like the summer tresses of the trees,
When twilight makes them brown, and on her cheek
Blushes the richness of an autumn sky,
With ever-shifting beauty.  Then her breath,
It is so like the gentle air of Spring,
As, front the morning's dewy flowers, it comes
Full of their fragrance, that it is a joy
To have it round us, and her silver voice
Is the rich music of a summer bird,
Heard in the still night, with its passionate cadence.
Every day, the sun sets
you noticed?
in a great, glorious performance
of wraparound scenic splendour
as if it were the last day of the world
(we'd sue)
and all around the world
poets who've been chewing on their pencils all day
or gazing steamy-eyed at an empty screen
without as we poets say, the Muse whispering
an ode we're owed
as poets
wonder if it could be one last chance
to write the ultimate sunset poem
to get something down today
and justify our existence beyond existing
noting that at sunset
the red flowers in the garden glow so intensely
that you can feel it on your eyeballs
and the sunlight just when the sun disappears
lights up the whole landscape like a floodlight
on the stage set of our lives
that sort of stuff
then next morning the sun
rises on our ultimate sunset poem
and later sets
Never say aught in verse, or grave or gay,
That you in prose would hesitate to say.
Never in rhyme pretend to tears, unless
True feeling sheds them in unfeigned distress;
Or some dream-grief, with such a mournful strain
As night winds make in pine tops, stirs your brain,
To shake them, dew-like, o’er the flowers that bloom
In the wild dark, round Joy’s imagined tomb;
Or save when doubts that over Love may lower,
Like summer clouds, break in a sunny shower
Out of your gladdened eyes, to freshen all
The bowers of memory with their grateful fall.
Never too much affect that polished thing—
Once belauded—known as point, or sting.
The highest and the noblest growths of wit
Are never, or but seldom, touched with it.
For of the muse it is not truly born
Unless the apex of some burst of scorn,
Or irony, or hate all torture-torn!
Not to increase the passion, but to make
The wave, full surging, on its object break.
Never, if you’d be readable at all,
Aim overmuch at being ethical.
Though she should be a teacher, still the Muse
To be a mere schoolmistress should refuse.
She should instruct us, but her methods never
Be academic ones, however clever.
Her morals, like great nature’s morals, aye
Should work themselves out in an unforced way,
And not so patly as to hint the while
At cryptic ingenuities of style.
Whate’er the theme, her ethic lights should shine
Full forth, as from a central heat divine,
Or heat inherent to the passion, wrought
Into the chastened harmony of thought;
And not be mere extraneous coals of fire
Blown for the nonce into factitious ire.
Though sone has oft some beauty most divine,
Which well we feel, yet cannot well define—
Some yearning excellence, intense and far,
Coming and going like a clouded star—
Some awful glory we but half descry,
Like a strong sunset in a stormy sky—
Yet ne’er be murky of set purpose, since
You only thereby shall the more evince
That even the Sublime’s but then made sure
When, like a morning alp, it breaks from the obscure.
Never heed whether a line strictly goes
By learned rule, if, brook-like, it warble as it flows,
Or if, in concord with the thought, it fills
Fast forward, like a torrent fast flooding from the hills.
Never say aught is “fading like a star”
Because receding in the past afar,
Since stars do not fade, but shine on no less,
Thought lost in light to our weaksightedness;
And no true trope should ever rest on fancy,
But claim a universal relevancy;
Nor think a line is racy to the core,
And bold, and bravely eloquent, the more
It striving seems to tear itself asunder,
Like this—“Down there i’ the deep heart o’ the thunder,”
But for which, surely (out of chaos), none
Might feign to find a sanction, save in fun.
Never think harshness the best foil to raise
And relish sweetness; for love craggy lays.
Yet never be you glib, when passion’s force
Should ridge your style, as by a tempest hoarse
The deep is roughened into waves that roar
At heaven—upheaping, huddling, more and more,
To burst at last in booming thunder on the shore.
Never be such a pagan as to deem
That truth or beauty must diviner seem
For some abnormal set-off, hunched and rude,
Prowling for evil in the neighbourhood,
If such strange opposite breathe not the air
Of nature—being found, not conjured there;
And never to be graceless be you fain,
Till to be graceful you have tried in vain.
Never be cheated—never may you be!—
Into the cramp belief that poesy
Must of necessity in soul be one
With the mere form of verse if it but deftly run;
Or pour, as with a mill-wheel’s vigorous cheer,
A rhyming clatter hard upon the ear.
Never believe that verse a license knows
For aught that would be balderdash in prose,
Or that all reason may at any time
Find a sufficient substitute in rhyme;
Or that because with many words you re fraught,
There must be under them some flood of thought.
Never compel a simile that wont
Take service without forcing; if it don t,
As of itself, into your verses flow,
But true to liberty—and let it go.
Never reject a homely-sounding phrase,
That your whole meaning easily conveys,
For one made current by some courtly wit
Which barely indicates a shade of it,
Or which—for probably it so may fall—
Does not express what you would mean at all.
Never suppose that you in song are free
To strain all praise, and make it flattery.
To sing of the heroic is to raise
One value by another—but to praise
Mere clowns, in verse, or natures lean and cold,
Is like to setting gravel stones in gold.
Never exalt vagaries to a station
But due to flights of the imagination—
Gas-charged balloons, put vainly all a-bloat,
For clouds of God that in the orient float;
Theatric thunders, all set brattling for
The dread all-shaking tempest-trumps of Thor;
For in the end all charlatanry must,
The more it startle, but the more disgust.
And lastly, never take for gospel all
Your friends say of your genius, when they call
Its merits o’er; but at the same time see
That you do never take yourself to be
So great an ass as your known foes declare
They do most solemnly believe you are.
[Each embryo poet, profit by my strain!
Then shall men say, “He has not lived in vain! ”]
"Who would himself with shadows entertain,
Or gild his life with lights that shine in vain,
Or nurse false hopes that do but cheat the true?--
Though with my dream my heaven should be resigned--
Though the free-pinioned soul that once could dwell
In the large empire of the possible,
This workday life with iron chains may bind,
Yet thus the mastery o'er ourselves we find,
And solemn duty to our acts decreed,
Meets us thus tutored in the hour of need,
With a more sober and submissive mind!
How front necessity--yet bid thy youth
Shun the mild rule of life's calm sovereign, truth."
So speakest thou, friend, how stronger far than I;
As from experience--that sure port serene--
Thou lookest;--and straight, a coldness wraps the sky,
The summer glory withers from the scene,
Scared by the solemn spell; behold them fly,
The godlike images that seemed so fair!
Silent the playful Muse--the rosy hours
Halt in their dance; and the May-breathing flowers
Fall from the sister-graces' waving hair.
Sweet-mouthed Apollo breaks his golden lyre,
Hermes, the wand with many a marvel rife;--
The veil, rose-woven, by the young desire
With dreams, drops from the hueless cheeks of life.
The world seems what it is--a grave! and love
Casts down the bondage wound his eyes above,
And sees!--He sees but images of clay
Where he dreamed gods; and sighs--and glides away.
The youngness of the beautiful grows old,
And on thy lips the bride's sweet kiss seems cold;
And in the crowd of joys--upon thy throne
Thou sittest in state, and hardenest into stone.
The Farmer's Goose, who in the Stubble,
Has fed without Restraint, or Trouble;
Grown fat with Corn and Sitting still,
Can scarce get o'er the Barn-Door Sill:
And hardly waddles forth, to cool
Her Belly in the neighb'ring Pool:
Nor loudly cackles at the Door;
For Cackling shews the Goose is poor.
But when she must be turn'd to graze,
And round the barren Common strays,
Hard Exercise, and harder Fare
Soon make my Dame grow lank and spare:
Her Body light, she tries her Wings,
And scorns the Ground, and upward springs,
While all the Parish, as she flies,
Hear Sounds harmonious from the Skies.
Such is the Poet, fresh in Pay,
(The third Night's Profits of his Play;)
His Morning-Draughts 'till Noon can swill,
Among his Brethren of the Quill:
With good Roast Beef his Belly full,
Grown lazy, foggy, fat, and dull:
Deep sunk in Plenty, and Delight,
What Poet e'er could take his Flight?
Or stuff'd with Phlegm up to the Throat,
What Poet e'er could sing a Note?
Nor Pegasus could bear the Load,
Along the high celestial Road;
The Steed, oppress'd, would break his Girth,
To raise the Lumber from the Earth.
But, view him in another Scene,
When all his Drink is Hippocrene,
His Money spent, his Patrons fail,
His Credit out for Cheese and Ale;
His Two-Year's Coat so smooth and bare,
Through ev'ry Thread it lets in Air;
With hungry Meals his Body pin'd,
His Guts and Belly full of Wind;
And, like a Jockey for a Race,
His Flesh brought down to Flying-Case:
Now his exalted Spirit loaths
Incumbrances of Food and Cloaths;
And up he rises like a Vapour,
Supported high on Wings of Paper;
He singing flies, and flying sings,
While from below all Grub-street rings.
I believe that if you can speak, you can write….,
So almost anyone can be a lyricist or a poet too…! ! !
Of course there’s talent involved…,
And some are blessed to have much more than others do….,
But if you can compose a letter, or hold a conversation….,
I feel you could write a song lyric or a poem….,
Now that doesn’t mean it’ll be top-notch….,
Or for that matter, even mediocre….,
But when you’re in a crowd or all alone….,
Try it…! ! !
Cause There’s Poetry In Writing A Winning Lyric….,
And Great Satisfaction In Writing A Fine Poem…! ! !
I am tired but I like to continue.
My posture is feeble
but I want to finish the journey
walking up to the dead end?
I must thank the poemhunter website and all my fellowship
who gave a space to this tiny animal to walk along the road
without any obstacles.
I feel like a newly wed among my cyber colleagues
and I was surprised how in one's day collected so many friends?
I've fond anticipation of a day
O'erfilled with pure diversion presently,
For I must read a lady poesy
The while we glide by many a leafy bay,
Hid deep in rushes, where at random play
The glossy black winged May-flies, or whence flee
Hush-throated nestlings in alarm,
Whom we have idly frighted with our boat's long sway.
For, lest o'ersaddened by such woes as spring
To rural peace from our meek onward trend,
What else more fit? We'll draw the latch-string
And close the door of sense; then satiate wend,
On poesy's transforming giant wing,
To worlds afar whose fruits all anguish mend.
To coin a metaphor:
It's like a Protestant
wandering into a Catholic church
and hearing someone just out of the confessional
muttering 32 Hail Mary's as instructed
huddled in the nearest pew,
and thinking
hey once is enough...
for some, a ceaseless act of worship;
for some, a wake-up call;
the intention
could be the same
I read the headline slowly, a second time,
Just to be sure:
“Aspiring Poet Drowns in Hudson Trying to Save Poems”
It seems a young body threw itself into the river
Chasing its paper heart and soul
As they sank to the black bottom below
Held hostage in a backpack.
Seems even the lightweight models
Aren’t quite light
Enough.
Someone should have told him,
Warned him of the truth:
Poetry is in the writing, not on the paper.
Paper words merely mimic the mind,
Cheaper by the dozen
One thousandth of a picture.
Sometimes you get a “hmmm” and a wink
From a reader in Des Moines,
And frankly, that should suffice.
By all means, share your thoughts.
Mind and body are for the taking
And the giving.
But for God’s sake guard your heart and soul,
Back them up from time to time,
For when these are left lying around carelessly,
It’s bound to end badly
Sooner or later.
If music and sweet poetry agree,
As they must needs (the sister and the brother),
Then must the love be great 'twixt thee and me,
Because thou lov'st the one, and I the other.
Dowland to thee is dear, whose heavenly touch
Upon the lute doth ravish human sense;
Spenser to me, whose deep conceit is such
As, passing all conceit, needs no defence.
Thou lov'st to hear the sweet melodious sound
That Ph{oe}bus' lute (the queen of music), makes;
And I in deep delight am chiefly drown'd
Whenas himself to singing he betakes.
One god is god of both (as poets feign),
One knight loves both, and both in thee remai
I don't like nasty limericks.
I don't like vulgar words.
I'd rather write of better things,
like maybe watching birds.
So many poets feel the need
to write such graphic things.
The art of poetry to me
is making words that sing.
It's easy to be nasty.
It takes no brain at all.
But I can't keep from wondering
where you get the gall.
My poems may not be ''genius''.
I'm sure they don't compare
to many other writer's work
but mine, I like to share.
No matter if you're ninety
or if you're only nine
you needn't feel ashamed to click
on poetry that's mine.
THOU liest dead, and there will be no memory left behind
Of thee or thine in all the earth, for never didst thou bind
The roses of Pierian streams upon thy brow; thy doom
Is now to flit with unknown ghosts in cold and nameless gloom.
EXULT MY MUSE! exult to see
Each envious, waspish, jealous thing,
Around its harmless venom fling,
And dart its powerless fangs at THEE!
Ne'er shalt THOU bend thy radiant wing,
To sweep the dark revengeful string;
Or meanly stoop, to steal a ray,
E'en from RINALDO'S glorious lay,
Tho' his transcendent Verse should twine
About thy heart, each bliss divine.
O MUSE ADOR'D, I woo thee now
From yon bright Heaven, to hear my vow;
From thy blest wing a plume I'll steal,
And with its burning point record
Each firm indissoluble word,
And with my lips the proud oath seal!
I SWEAR;­OH, YE, whose souls like mine
Beam with poetic rays divine,
Attend my voice;­whate'er my FATE
In this precarious wild'ring state,
Whether the FIENDS with rancorous ire
Strike at my heart's unsullied fire:
While busy ENVY'S recreant guile
Calls from my cheek THE PITYING SMILE;
Or jealous SLANDER mean and vain,
Essays my mind's BEST BOAST to stain;
Should all combine to check my lays,
And tear me from thy fost'ring gaze,
Ne'er will I quit thy burning eye,
'Till my last, eager, gasping sigh,
Shall, from its earthly mansion flown,
Embrace THEE on thy STARRY THRONE.
Sweet soother of the pensive breast,
Come in thy softest splendours dress'd;
Bring with thee, REASON, chastely mild;
And CLASSIC TASTE­her loveliest child;
And radiant FANCY'S offspring bright,
Then bid them all their charms unite,
My mind's wild rapture to inspire,
With thy own SACRED, GENUINE FIRE.
I ask no fierce terrific strain,
That rends the breast with tort'ring pain,
No frantic flight, no labour'd art,
To wring the fibres of the heart!
No frenzy'd GUIDE, that madd'ning flies
O'er cloud-wrapp'd hills­thro' burning skies;
That sails upon the midnight blast,
Or on the howling wild wave cast,
Plucks from their dark and rocky bed
The yelling DEMONS of the deep,
Who soaring o'er the COMET'S head,
The bosom of the WELKIN sweep!
Ne'er shall MY hand, at Night's full noon,
Snatch from the tresses of the moon
A sparkling crown of silv'ry hue,
Besprent with studs of frozen dew,
To deck my brow with borrow'd rays,
That feebly imitate the SUN'S RICH BLAZE.
AH lead ME not, dear gentle Maid,
To poison'd bow'r or haunted glade;
Where beck'ning spectres shrieking, glare
Along the black infected air;
While bold "fantastic thunders " leap
Indignant, midst the clam'rous deep,
As envious of its louder tone,
While lightnings shoot, and mountains groan
With close pent fires, that from their base
Hurl them amidst the whelming space;
Where OCEAN'S yawning throat resounds,
And gorg'd with draughts of foamy ire,
Madly o'er-leaps its crystal bounds,
And soars to quench the SUN'S proud fire.
While NATURE'S self shall start aghast,
Amid the desolating blast,
That grasps the sturdy OAK'S firm breast,
And tearing off its shatter'd vest,
Presents its gnarled bosom, bare,
To the hot light'ning's with'ring glare!
TRANSCENDENT MUSE! assert thy right,
Chase from thy pure PARNASSIAN height
Each bold usurper of thy LYRE,
Each phantom of phosphoric fire,
That dares, with wild fantastic flight
The timid child of GENIUS fright;
That dares with pilfer'd glories shine
Along the dazzling frenzy'd line,
Where tinsel splendours cheat the mind,
While REASON, trembling far behind,
Drops from her blushing front thy BAYS,
And scorns to share the wreath of praise.
But when DIVINE RINALDO flings
Soft rapture o'er the bounding strings;
When the bright flame that fills HIS soul,
Bursts thro' the bonds of calm controul,
And on enthusiastic wings
To Heaven's Eternal Mansion springs,
Or darting thro' the yielding skies,
O'er earth's disastrous valley flies;
Forbear his glorious flight to bind;
YET o'er his TRUE POETIC Mind
Expand thy chaste celestial ray,
Nor let fantastic fires diffuse
Deluding lustre round HIS MUSE,
To lead HER glorious steps astray!
AH ! let his matchless HARP prolong
The thrilling Tone, the classic song,
STILL bind his Brow with deathless Bays,
STILL GRANT HIS VERSE­A NATION'S PRAISE.
But, if by false persuasion led,
His varying FANCY e'er should tread
The paths of vitiated Taste,
Where folly spreads a "weedy waste;"
OH ! may HE feel no more the genuine fire,
That warms HIS TUNEFUL SOUL, and prompts THY SACRED LYRE.
It is a statute in deep wisdom's lore,
That for his lines none should a patron chuse
By wealth and poverty, by less or more,
But who the same is able to peruse:
Nor ought a man his labour dedicate,
Without a true and sensible desert,
To any power of such a mighty state
But such a wise defendress as thou art
Thou great and powerful Muse, then pardon me
That I presume thy maiden cheek to stain
In dedicating such a work to thee,
Sprung from the issue of an idle brain:
I use thee as a woman ought to be,
I consecrate my idle hours to thee.
The poem, even a short time after being written,
seems no miracle; unwritten, it seems
something beyond the capacity of the gods.
*
Art is the means we have of undoing the damage of
haste. It's what everything else isn't.
*
You can't make poetry simply by avoiding clichés.
*
There's a point where plainness is no longer a virtue,
when it becomes excessively bald, wrenched.
*
You must believe: a poem is a holy thing -- a good poem,
that is.
What is poetry?
I say it is mega-magnetic fun
When words play and tend to run
It is mega-magnetic fun
Yes mega-magnetic fun
When readers show they are appreciative
Of playful words which are narrative
I say it is mega-magnetic fun
When readers have come & gone
And all the votes have been cast and drawn
I say it is mega-magnetic fun
When writers become inventive
With or without any material incentive
I say it is mega-magnetic fun
That is what poetry is about
It is mega-magnetic fun
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I printed all my poems out and put them in a book.
I've placed it on the table in the hopes you'll take a look.
You know you'll find my soul there beneath the cover page.
You'll read about my pleasures, my heartaches and my rage.
I know you don't like poetry and this I understand
but how can you not want to peek into my  ''wonderland''?
If you would take a minute and peruse a page or two
I think you'd be suprised to read the thoughts I have of you.
I've tried to make it easy and I know you see it there.
I'll wait it out and hope you see these things I need to share.
I suppose I know the answer is in where I place my book.
I'll put it in the bathroom......then you're sure to take a look!
With poetry
I have found a purpose
With poetry
things just seem easier
With poetry
words will dance the tango
With poetry
I can put meaning to my thoughts
With poetry
I can ramble on and on
With poetry
everything is easier
`
with the quill of a forgotten moment
a signature of time upon the sky
as languid white clouds drifting by
spurs a sharp pain that wouldn't go
striking paper filled with imprints
ink staining along this cracked soul
`
Neither straight, nor curved,
The longest line
On Earth!
Globalization.................................
A period of extreme poverty of the lower working classes
As they worked to the death the rich sat politely on their arses
London’s poor tried to scrape a living doing jobs the devil created
As the rich sat at their windows laughing at the pitiful souls they hated
The poor would have sooner died than enter the poor houses control
As it was not fit to harbor a single living human soul
Small boys were used to clean narrow sooted chimneys
While in the coal mines children worked on their hands and knees
Although this golden age pioneered many useful inventions
Children privileged to go to school were whipped instead of detentions
And as the poor worked for a life at every waking hour
The rich covered their stench with perfume and wild flowers
The poor had nothing and hardly anything to eat
While the rich enjoyed tea and honey and sherbet lemon sweets
In Victorian London the poor just lived and died
The rich never really noticed the rich never really cried
A period of extreme poverty of the lower working classes
As they worked to the death the rich sat politely on their asses
Pining for a much better quality of life,
Opened to great suffering and pain.
Violence and hate, society's distain.
Every step seems a step in the wrong direction.
Realizing each day is a losing battle.
Trampled by the powerful, frowned upon by middleclass.
Yet always wondering, how long will it last.
Written:  Jan.15,2008
We are proud to say we are poor
We are telling about our poverty
We are getting nowhere.
We want to help the poor
By eliminating them from this geography
Basically we know not anything.
Giving the poor free rice free vegetables
Free fruits free clothing free house and food bill
What we want to do we know not, it is but to kill.
Know the poor know poverty all around the world
Come to their rescue care for the common poor people
No show nothing, no hypocrisy would help anybody.
I do not care how much they would
give to buy me if they could.
I am poor and often starving,
desperately, slowly carving
my own way through this shady maze.
I say to those whose lusty gaze
rests, uninvited on my skin:
Your dreams of finding your small pin
inside of me will not come true.
And if in winter's cold I'm blue
of lips and without any food,
it will not get me in the mood.
I have no shelter and no bread,
and by tomorrow might be dead.
Yes. I'm a virgin, clean and proud
says this young maiden, clear and loud.
And her legs are getting leaden,
rightly sensing Armageddon.
Drags herself down to the Fountain
where a man is standing, counting
money in his fur-gloved hand,
reaching out to help her stand.
' Dear young girl, you are not well,
listen now to what I tell,
come with me up to my room
to escape your certain doom.
All the streets are full of lechers,
prostitutes and woman catchers.'
So she follows him upstairs,
seeing that perhaps he  cares.
In the light of his adobe
wrapping her into his robe,
tucks her under feather cover
but refuses to be lover,
feeds her soup with silver spoon,
lets her sleep there until noon.
As she wakes she finds a box,
filled with heavy woolen socks,
bread and cheese and also money,
then she steps into the sunny
day of her old world again.
Thinking that there must be men
who are kind and altruistic,
she herself is quite artistic.
And, on that day she finds employment,
a new life full of much enjoyment,
is waiting for her signal  'YES'
but all of it becomes a mess
when the director of her work
turns out to be a cheap old jerk.
He sees her as his latest toy
to bring her, daily, carnal joy.
That night she's back out on the street,
half-dreaming of the man she'd meet
like once before, to give her kindness,
but Lady Luck displays her blindness.
Her lips are cold and very blue,
as frost arrests the morning dew,
when at the Fountain cries disturb
her sleep, and over by the curb
he stands and waves and comes across,
her head moves in defiant toss.
But when he takes her frozen hand
she grips its warmth securely and
again they climb the creaking stairs
again she puts on hold her cares.
He sets the table and they eat,
right after stretching out their feet
toward the fireplace and savour
a burgundy with Southern flavour.
He dozes off, still in his chair
when she decides to strip and bare,
she slips into the giant bed....
that's when the waking fellow said
'Of course you may sleep in my covers,
just be aware we are not lovers.'
Behind the stove he dons pyjamas
of flannel to prevent those dramas
that happen in the heat of night,
to him this sin would not be right.
And in the morning came a cry
from the outside where chickens fly.
It was that ancient Spanish cock,
he doubles as the town's own clock.
The rooster landed on the sill
and looked inside, where, sleeping still,
they lay entangled with each other.
He shook his comb, crowed 'Poultry Mother'
and flew back down to see his flock.
He thought about the man who'd mock
his morals for a horny fling
with such a poor and raggy thing.
But then, inside his cozy den
went over to his half-dressed hen
and had his usual way with her
until the dust was just a blur,
which she enjoyed because it had
been ages since this cocky lad
had shown an interest in her charms,
she'd take him back with open arms.
Upstairs, there's  stirring in the covers,
and they awoke as newborn lovers.
Both took a vow to stay together.
And on the sill she found the feather.
THE post-boy drove with fierce career,
For threatening clouds the moon had drowned;
When, as we hurried on, my ear
Was smitten with a startling sound.
As if the wind blew many ways,
I heard the sound,-and more and more;
It seemed to follow with the chaise,
And still I heard it as before.
At length I to the boy called out;
He stopped his horses at the word,
But neither cry, nor voice, nor shout,
Nor aught else like it, could be heard.
The boy then smacked his whip, and fast
The horses scampered through the rain;
But, hearing soon upon the blast
The cry, I bade him halt again.
Forthwith alighting on the ground,
'Whence comes,' said I, 'this piteous moan?'
And there a little Girl I found,
Sitting behind the chaise, alone.
'My cloak!' no other word she spake,
But loud and bitterly she wept,
As if her innocent heart would break;
And down from off her seat she leapt.
'What ails you, child?'-she sobbed 'Look here!'
I saw it in the wheel entangled,
A weather-beaten rag as e'er
From any garden scare-crow dangled.
There, twisted between nave and spoke,
It hung, nor could at once be freed;
But our joint pains unloosed the cloak,
A miserable rag indeed!
'And whither are you going, child,
To-night alone these lonesome ways?'
'To Durham,' answered she, half wild-
'Then come with me into the chaise.'
Insensible to all relief
Sat the poor girl, and forth did send
Sob after sob, as if her grief
Could never, never have an end.
'My child, in Durham do you dwell?'
She checked herself in her distress,
And said, 'My name is Alice Fell;
I'm fatherless and motherless.
'And I to Durham, Sir, belong.'
Again, as if the thought would choke
Her very heart, her grief grew strong;
And all was for her tattered cloak!
The chaise drove on; our journey's end
Was nigh; and, sitting by my side,
As if she had lost her only friend
She wept, nor would be pacified.
Up to the tavern-door we post;
Of Alice and her grief I told;
And I gave money to the host,
To buy a new cloak for the old.
'And let it be of duffil grey,
As warm a cloak as man can sell!'
Proud creature was she the next day,
The little orphan, Alice Fell!
And what is poverty
In which we are busy
in discussing so much?
Is not poverty lacking of faith?
Has it some friend and
if yes who are they?
We are fully aware
poverty is nothing
But a mental status
So long as we are telling
we have brain,
Let the brain in its way.
And we are in our world
With every richness with us.
Poverty is not so easy to attain.
It is not all misery-belly-pinching brats,
motherless, naked and dirty, let loose
among garbage heaps on squalid streets;
it is not always a toothless importunate hag,
shrunken and gaunt, who, accosting you on the footpath,
clings and clings, pleading she has no other refuge;
it is not always the slum in Calcutta or Bombay
where during the monsoon, the pus of the city
oozes, and women, with babies at their breasts
wade across filthy gutters by the roadside
to reach their dissolute hovels; it is not always
some leper on display, limbs arranged on a cart,
a wrinkled begging bowl of tin balanced between
stubs of arms, pushed by his bandaged companion.
We, for whom poverty is the only sin,
miss the true meaning of what it is to be poor.
Regard myself in my own comfortable cage
twenty concrete floors above the common street
surrounded by my solacing clutter of machines:
my washers, dryers, heaters, coolers, mixers,
air-conditioners, refrigerators, cookers, grinders,
dish washers, vacuum cleaners, hi-fi stereos, CD-Roms-
wonderful possessions, too numerous to mention-
fabricate my secure and happy delusions.  My day
which ended with a sedative, begins with the alarm
of a chronometer made in Japan.  Wired to a shaver,
I adjust temperatures, turn on the coffee maker,
automatically dispose garbage, receive recorded messages
from the office, blip the tube for the Morning News,
open refrigerator, collect dishes from the washer,
breakfast instantly, and if not constipated, defecate,
shower, shampoo, condition, blow-dry hair, dress,
descend in the elevator to my automobile, waiting
in the bowels of the building.  After I leave,
the fluffy carpet smothers the floor, bolted windows
preserve the air-conditioning; pets, and potted plants
on display, strategically placed for effect, languish
for want of sunshine and air.
Regard myself among
all these, my indispensable possessions.  Can I
one muffled night, walk away from all this that ties me?
can I, oppressed by my fears and uncertainties,
disappear into the night to find all the answers?
'I shall not rest until I have found the truth'-
can I take such a vow and simply leave in the dark
without even a note, as over two thousand years ago
Gautama did?  With all my engagements, can I
without notice, even take a vacation?  No, impossible.
I will be registered with the Missing Persons Bureau.
The media will blare my absence; the major newspapers
announcing a reward for my capture, will print my
picture; my wife will hire detectives to track me down,
and if I am found, she will probably file for divorce,
suing me for desertion and maltreatment.  Afterwards,
endless alimony payments will follow as a matter of course.
No, my friend, even if I want to, I cannot be poor.
Poverty, the plain fact is, cannot be inherited;
it has to be acquired, for it is a quality of the mind.
Poverty is the lack of need, not the want of possessions.
It cannot be forced, because it is voluntary.
He who knows what it is to be poor, always walks
upright; using only what he needs, refusing all excesses,
he is the essential man, without any superfluity.
Or, consider another angle:
we humans are beings of spirit and flesh.
some stuff the spirit, starve the flesh,
some starve the spirit and stuff the flesh.
Some die of too little, some die of too much,
and all those who die are equal.  Hence,
privation and repletion are variations
of the same illness.  So don't think that
being rich, in itself, is better than being poor,
for in the ultimate analysis, despite your wealth,
can you deny, that in truth you own only yourself?
Beyond a certain point,
I do not care to prolong this argument.
These words formed in indignation
always dissolve in a calm beyond comment.
My philosophy is simple
though some consider it partisan and limited:
the poor define their opposites;
without them none would be rich.
Hence, if nothing else,
let me here declare
my allegiance to my deprived countrymen,
however unlike them I may be.
Let poverty be my lot,
let me make this meagre offering
at the shrine of indigence.
Having now come out into the open,
taken sides for the rest of my days,
let me end,
on a note of uncharacteristic bluntness:
we mustn't extend our judgements
to what we do not comprehend;
we should accept each other,
as we are—rich or poor-
or mind our own business, please.
[Ffrom The Used Book]
A room I saw
where the babu of poverty had been a frequent visitor
few walls were stark naked as if they never wore anything
and a few were shedding away the color they were draped in
The room had nothing in it
no furniture, nothing much to address as wearable,
a small blanket was there with dust marks and small holes
which seemed at least two decades old
and must've at some point been the food of rats roaming around
As I looked around I found
a few broken, rusted kitchenware kept in a corner,
a clay pot to store water which was dripping from the roof
so that for drinking it can be used
The room was like a cell allotted to criminals
hardly you can find an entrance for the air
the smoke coming out of the beedi that the man
in lungi was inhaling was all it had to offer....
He was coughing, spitting in the broken bucket he had
there was no sign of sunshine even when it was 12 at noon on my watch,
food looked like a distant visitor to his house
it seemed, it liked the dustbin of a rich more than the stomach of a poor
His eyes told me a story
a story that I can never forget, when my eyes met his
of broken bodies and shattered dreams
of a frustrated soul and fractured beliefs
I could easily sense his disbelief in Gods
not a single image of idol was there in the entire room
Bhagavad Gita and Quraan too were invisible to my eyes
maybe because God didn't come to save his family when corruption ate it alive?
It was then when Kareem ran in saying
'Chacha jaan, MLA sahab has come to our slum...'
But no, he didn't move an inch
instead, he just blabbered something in muffled voice
and then lit another beedi up,
it seemed as if he knew all the tactics of these white dacoits...
He was all alone now
with wrinkled face and hands that trembled,
no longer could he pull a rickshaw or clean a garden,
what he could only do is to count the beads of the rosary of death...
Written by Sutputra Radheye
Not every beggar is a poor man or                                     A poor woman anytime...                                              Not every poor man is a beggar                                        Anytime...                                                           Beggars versus poor people...                                        Poor people never beg for money or                                    Anything anytime...                                                  Beggary is a bad deed that makes                                      Someone behaves badly and unwisely...                                Poverty is not beggary and beggary                                    Is not poverty anytime...                                            Beggars are mostly greedy and liars                                   Simply because they beg for their                                     Greed and not for their poverty...                                   Most poor people never beg for money                                  And for anything else in life...                                     Poverty is not a mistake, but beggary                                 Is a grave, ugly, and bad mistake...                                 Most of those who beg don't need                                      To beg anytime simply because they                                    Are greedy anywhere and everywhere...
Give us your deprived, your malleable muddled masses
hoping for a gentler taskmaster
Welcome to the multi-trillion dollar industry, Poverty
A.K.A, cheapest labor force
Poverty works, never ever unemployed
A much needed commodity to justify
White-collar crime classes
Teaching dastardly deeds—to procure monetary needs-
fostering avarice greed
Give us your deprived, your malleable muddled masses
hoping for a gentler taskmaster
Welcome to the multi-trillion dollar industry, Poverty
A.K.A., cheapest labor force
Poverty creates jobs for those financing the societal
Institution of ya godda pay more taxes
Blaming Poverty on the poor
Look! what Enron did to those less fortunate
Blaming Poverty on the poor
Did not corporations want a billion dollar welfare check
Blaming Poverty on the poor
Blaming Poverty on the poor
Give us your deprived, your malleable muddled masses
hoping for a gentler taskmaster
Welcome to the multi-trillion dollar industry, Poverty
A.K.A., cheapest labor force
No penance just punishment augmenting the pillar of economic pillaging
Poor people put in the pillory from the political pulpit
Poverty is prime property
Poverty pimps portrayed as political preachers purely punitive but polite
The pluralization of Poverty provides prestige of the patricians
Poverty, the promissory note from the bureaucratic infidel
The Truth will tell—the truth will tell
Poverty the patriotic prisoner on trial for treason
Copyright  2001
Born in poverty,
Raised in poverty,
Still living in poverty!
It's so strange.
They speak about it.
Pizza! burgers! chicken! meat!
I don't know what 'delicious' means!
I don't know what 'over weighting' is!
I just know what 'skinny' is
Everyone calls me like this.
My food is great, wonderful!
Eating this way needs no rule
I won't eat anything instead
Here it is; water & bread!
Last night doctor told my dad:
'your child needs some protein'
But  dad needs his money for
Some more drug & heroin.
We were penniless, dad was sad.
Poverty made him truly mad.
Addiction came and kindness went.
Our home is a carton tent!
In fact only God can mend
My wounds with the looks he sends.
I'm the child of poverty,
Hunger is my only friend.
(2013)
to all hungry children on the earth...
Arrows of poverty darting from throes
Thorns of destitution germinating from thrones
Flood of orphans sprouting on ghettos of misery
Torrents of waifs are pouring out from poverty-stricken outskirts of melancholy
Usurped future awaits them to heap upon their plights reprieved
Kingdom of agony is their permanent cottages of lights bereaved
Freezing winters and searing summers passing by
Infants of heedless justice praying with weep and cry
Begging god for walking on meadows of unceasing happiness
Yearning for unfading dreams of incessant caress
They are mere innocent victims of hostilities
Deprived of even vital facilities
Malnutrition wreaking withdrawl of stomachs on waists of threadbare bait
Refrigerators are deserts of poignant barren fate
Eradication of poverty is ridiculous mottoes of powers
We should take a determined action to raze this FATAL pestilence of populace.
Nothing wrong has been done
By Dana Majhi of Kalahandi.
He has just taken away
On his shoulder,
The dead body of his wife.
The sweetheart of Dana Majhi,
As you know, died in TB
At the hospital.
But let me ask a question
Why you people are so much
Worried about the incidents?
It is because something
Wrong is there within you,
It is because you are enjoying
Your life, at the cost of the people
And doing no welfare acts so far.
Remember, the summum bonum of life
Is situated in the loving service
Of the people in any set up of Govt.
You are seeking happiness, true,
By employing your senses
In the modes of materialism,
And you are not satisfied.
It is true, you engage yourself
In various philanthropic and
Altruistic works and all fail to
Give you satisfaction.
It is happening only due to
Your own childish innocence,
You are by nature eternal servitor
Of the people and you are
Taking away everything from
The common men like Dana Majhi,
And knowingly and unknowingly
Not providing the basic needs.
life
large stereotypes
will
not
help class
causes!
poverty
exploited Victorian
pitiful poor
a perceived
Dickens
phenomenon
living
within
rise
neglected
deflated
industrial
past
poverty
social
consciousness
mammoth
social causes
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
End poverty
In the world now
Please
Come and work
Together to end poverty
In the world
So many people in the world are starving
Havoc being played upon an earth of people as they struggle
to live from day to day.
Making ends meet is no longer a tangible way of being.
Government has crept and cramped our lives with their inane
rules and greediness, tossing everyone onto waves of
homelessness and poverty, causing more violence, as people
try to adjust to an existence of mere simplicity.
CEO's, financiers, bankers, politicians and developers have
put us into a tailspin of economic recession and are now
expecting the American public to bail them out of their
extravagant ways of life - lives that they were/are living
at our expense.
Who's going to help us as we live on edges of the little we
have left?
We don't see anyone waiting in line to hand us money - not
even to exist on.
(10: 54 a.m. - 12/12/08)
I hate poverty
Money paves the way to health
Peace and happiness
there is no poverty in poetry: it is a rich world
of flowers
and magic, of images that imaginations create
a warm sun
the deep blue sea, some mysteries of words
that come
and seemingly carry with them a bountry of meanings
liberation, oblation, jubilation
expression
birds coming out from our mouths
butterflies from our
stomachs
fireworks from our minds
in multicolors
to the darkest skies
of this earth
where can poverty
be
in a world of freedom: to say what you want to say
to think what you want to think
to dream
to imagine
to find meanings where others think there are none?
the secret garden
a path
a gate
a hiding place for all of us who still believe
about life
and aftelife and life after life
temporary deaths
and temporary losses
a jump a leap to the world beyond us
to eternity
we are meant
this i think is poetry and surely
there can never be
poverty
Keeps away poverty
Make no mistakes
You shall stake
No claim over mishaps
That shall be called slap on your face
Make any overture
In future
Against our supreme creator
You shall be buried further
No one shall extend aid
You will be laid deep below
With no memory for contribution
You shall be gone forever from relation bond
God has created position
For us to live with jubilation
As life was to be called precious
And all souls to be called generous
Owe thanks to an almighty
As he is full of mercy
With all powers to grant prosperity
Long life and keep away poverty
One way to be very happy is to be very rich
For then you can buy orchids by the quire and bacon by the flitch.
And yet at the same time People don't mind if you only tip them a dime,
Because it's very funny
But somehow if you're rich enough you can get away with spending
water like money
While if you're not rich you can spend in one evening your salary for
the year
And everybody will just stand around and jeer.
If you are rich you don't have to think twice about buying a judge or a
horse,
Or a lower instead of an upper, or a new suit, or a divorce,
And you never have to say When,
And you can sleep every morning until nine or ten,
All of which
Explains why I should like very, very much to be very, very rich.
All things being equal I'd rather be rich,
However, thing don't always work out,
So I'm resigned to spend my time in poverty,
Working in the dirt and grime.
Why, or why me Lord, I may ask,
Gently proding the almighty for just one task,
I wondered if it would be possible,
Just bless me temporarily the ability to pay my bills,
Then I will be a changed fellow.
I then figured then that money was my problem.
What I didn't realize then,
But I do now,
It isn't a matter of money,
It is a matter of know how.
Now matter how you work,
You may never get ahead,
And then there are people who just work themselves dead.
I looked in the mirror and then decided,
Give me the poverty,
And all I need is the serenity,
To be able to live comfortably,
Now, I live with my means,
Not wanting for things,
And I'm very happy.
You may ask, what did I learn?
I will say, ' Living in poverty is not so bad,
Especially if you have a rich dad! '
Those who raise their voices for equality,
Obviously, they are not considered; equal,
Those who seek freedom; they are slave,
As I saw, so I said; I am not a knave..
Gays, they agitated, "Homo sex is to legalized,
Lesbian, claimed, their act is to be authorized,
Social worker and educationalist, for the education,
Missionaries, they are for the faith and religion,
Poverty victims they demand for cloth and food,
Most formidable enemy of humanity; the poverty-
The womb of terror and cruelty and inhuman act,
We are fostering to make them, whole earth a tomb!
Never try to justify the poverty, we must justify to self
Eradicate poverty to bring peace in barren mind; Help
Was I so poor
in those damned days
that I went in the dark
in torn shoes
and furtiveness
to steal fat ears
of cattle corn
from the good cows
and pound them
like hard maize
on my worn Aztec
stone? I was.
I over heard two fellows arguing about poverty
Whilst I sat in the cafe drinking coffee
And in truth I could not help but overhear them
As they sat at the next table to me.
The older of the two a silver gray haired fellow
Said to rid the World of want and poverty
We would need to depose every despotic leader
But the younger bloke with him did not agree.
He said in so called wealthy societies there's want and hunger
And where affluence is poverty too abound
From here you don't walk far to see poor people
For poverty is everywhere around.
The older bloke countered but this is a free Country
And those in poverty have themselves only to blame
And if hungry people in our midst are living
Do not expect me to feel any shame
The younger man again with him did differ
Saying want is caused by those who only care
For themselves alone and their own self interest
Many must grow poorer for to make one millionaire.
I left them there in the cafe to argue
And not for me to say who is wrong or right
For both of them looked well dressed and well fed fellows
And they won't go to bed hungry tonight.
Poverty seems like a repellent stuck on the poor
Whose only fault lies in owning no property or asset to parade
Among wealth admirers and worshippers to whom poverty seems dour
In contexts where ostentatious display of wealth cuts the grade
That profligacy and extravagance attract
Robbing the poor of the dignity glitter
As though on purpose fleas of poverty they contract
Dumping ugliness on the poor on whom fruits of affluence litter
Dwindling humanness and affection which wealth simpleton conflate
Into little human worth and warmth
Where spooks of poverty deflate
In proportion to the increase in affluence sloth
Sown, grown and thrown with utter scorn
To belittle
Abject poverty misguided affluence thinkers warn
Amounting to little less than spittle
Poverty peels off humbug and complacency
Exposing deeper layers of flawed humanity
Denuded of perspicacity and sagacity
Sometimes concealed in the deficit of humility
That often mars circles of affluence
Where possession seems to epitomise human dignity
Mistakenly regarded as diluted influence
The poor exert in extolling human unity shorn of wealth affinity and motility.
Their skin soaks up the heat
Leaving it as black as the midnight sky,
Their eyes wide, white, pleading
Begging to the passersby.
They litter the street
Half naked bodies,
Red and colouring their feet
Searching for a entrance
A door out of the circle of poverty.
Poverty means destruction
Destruction means fear
Behind locked doors we sit in early evening
Too scared to see a black face
Terrified of black feet crossing the threshold.
But why be fearful of your slaves,
Those you whip and beat
Treating like the dirt from the doormat
Where you wipe your feet.
Role diversity causes poverty
Poverty destroys peace
But peace minus poverty
Means Equality should increase.
Neither have I measured the life with coffee spoon
Nor did hips ever become a drum to beat, at noon
Cruel hunger like autumn paved the path for spring
I dreamed; for empty tummy within the poverty ring.
I measured life with tear full tumbler like a gambler
Breathe stucks up on stake and eyes and mind blur
Initially Lord gave me poverty and then thought
Now held pen with pain, for you, poems, I brought.
Whether you read or not, poems, here on poem hunter
I will write, so as to ease myself and my agony, for barter
Long ago there was a king,
Sober, sublime and sincere,
One Saturday night, came an angel,
'Thou hath given a wish that ye can,
Keepeth it forever—ordain by Lord, '
Quite for a moment—then said the king,
'O' Holy Angel, would you come next night?
I have to think and discuss with my coterie,
As ye brought a handsome lucky lottery,
Why not, take your own time, you take,
But bear in mind, only secluded wish,
If ye committed a mistake, ye will miss,
Be calm and cool, mind it—no mistake,
That night King lost his slumber,
Went to the Queen and winked,
Thou art be a Queen forever—
I have been rewarded a wish-my Miss,
He groped many tricks to be a King-
He completely changed himself with ring,
Of greed that bred evil within him,
He planned to have the wish with whim,
Next Saturday the Angel came and asked,
Your wish I shall be keeping in that pot-
You may keep it in a safe place, it's hot,
Okay—I will do as you wish my Master,
I wish the pot should be filled with poverty,
‘Cause poverty don't have liberty,
I will keep it, into the untrodden region of mind,
There's no one to see or can ever trace or find,
Angel lifted the hand and gifted with opened palm—
Shouted - -Be,      ….It is yours now, you can see,
Angel disappeared... on that morning poor appeared,
A device to rule and cheat— is the only poverty,
Since then—It became the ruling system-continues
Tell me—Who will eradicate the poverty and why?
My poverty
And it is my poverty
That is making me
Weaker and weaker
O my dear, it is
My hunger that is
Making me weaker
And weaker and weaker.
I am struggling for food
All days and all nights
I have no potency to fight
Being poverty-stricken
I am unable to perform
Any activities.
O my dear, believe me,
I am always
Staying here with fear.
See me
My poverty is
Mocking at me
With so many diseases.
But I am able to
Touch the Truth and
Truth is here
Before me at this time.
As I am poor
I am hearing You and
I am fortunate to receive Your blessing
I have no other engagement other than
Calling You day and nights.
Due to my poverty I have got the real
Saintly persons as my guide and associate
And here I enjoy the purified form of life.
Drive out poverty
And illiteracy
From the country
Or the country
Would drive you out.
Poverty and illiteracy
Are men-made. Remember,
In today's democracy
Men are powerful.
Give respect to men,
Men are there
To keep you in power.
You are powerful
Only for people.
Poverty and misrule
Wolves are same all over
You need to think it over
Liberty and freedom
Go together seldom
Under the same name
People gang up to come
In power and try to rule
Rest all people watch them as fool
Poor shall suffer more
As restrictions shall not be over
Their freedom of expression shall remain on paper
They will remain free but facing starvation and hunger
Africa has natural sources in abundance
Now you have got chance
Rise above pretty considerations
And exert pressure as an independent nation
If no resistance is offered
Or awareness is created
You shall be kept under control
To face poverty and misrule
Poverty is like an iron cover with several holes in it
Through which pass some invisible rays
They fall upon you and you slowly go dry
When they slyly suck up the sap of your body and brain
You cannot move as the cover works like chain
And cannot think big and pose as brilliant either
Within this dome like structure the space is too less
Deflated you look and feel like a fallen flower
Yet you cannot do anything to bring a relief of rain
The invisible rays act like dykes
To make obstacles after obstacles
In the way to break away the walls of this prison room.
Who with a little cannot be content,
Endures an everlasting punishment.
The stork flew over a town one day,
And back of each wing an infant lay;
One to a rich man’s home he brought,
And one he left at a labourer’s cot.
The rich man said, ‘My son shall be
A lordly ruler o’er land and sea.’
The labourer sighed, ‘’Tis the good God’s will
That I have another mouth to fill.’
The rich man’s son grew strong and fair,
And proud with the pride of a millionaire.
His motto in life was, ‘Live while you may, ’
And he crowded years in a single day.
He bought position and name and place,
And he bought him a wife with a handsome face.
He journeyed over the whole wide world,
But discontent his heart lay curled
Like a serpent hidden in leaves and moss,
And life seemed hollow and gold was dross.
He scoffed at woman, and doubted God,
And died like a beast and went back to the sod.
The son of the labourer tilled the soil,
And thanked God daily for health and toil.
He wedded for love in his youthful prime,
And two lives chorded in tune and time.
His wants were simple, and simple his creed,
To trust God fully: it served his need,
And lightened his labour, and helped him to die
With a smile on his lips and a hope in his eye.
When all is over and all is done,
Now which of these men was the richer one?
When I went to orphan house I met lot of children
They didn't see their mother nor did their Father
They don't know about god and his kingdom
Yet, in their life frustration, irritation and annoyance dances
Vexation, desperation, and grievance romances
They die in living; they live in dying daily 24/7
“I have no source of income, yet tears come
I cannot manage my life but only rummage sings a boy
I'm touching the lowest glory as he is not a donor
I have no house but I'm poverty's honour
I know I'm suppressed when my rights are denied and no joy
They die in living; they live in dying daily 24/7
My heart melts like a candle and camphor
I'm a life to good and I will give food
I'm a friend to all sings man very tall he stood
As soon he climbed the ladder and latter!
He drowned all of us in water without any matter!
They die in living; they live in dying daily 24/7
Poverty and Crime
desperation starvation
and economic crime,
will by dire necessity
often go hand in hand.
Severe compulsive addictions
substance abuse cravings
needing addiction release,
are also prime cause candidates
for social group individual crime.
Poverty crone
Dancing with open belly
Along with croon.
'momma, i'm hungry! '
'i cant find you. where are you? '
'momma! please! momma! '
old car packed up high,
mattress tied down on the roof...
windows bare, empty.
the stink of whiskey,
tired-eyed, angry, hard despair,
paint peels off the dream
potatoes, old bread,
last pot of coffee, brewed strong,
nothing on the shelf!
hand on the pistol,
too damn tired to be afraid...
no other option!
Fill the rivers,
With poverty’s tears,
Only then will they be filled with innocent water.
The brick that fills poverty’s throat
Should be filled with heaven’s food
Not hell’s slaughter.
Poverty’s hands should not be,
As empty as our hearts.
Their feet should not feel the piercing sand
While we rot in cars.
Poverty’s teeth are famished
Because they bite empty air,
Our teeth are stuffed with arrogance
Until our blessings with be stripped bare
In the night of hell
When guilt will crawl upon us
The worms and snakes of our sins
Will pierce venom through our selfishness
And there we will stand
Bare of all our blessings
The naked truth for the world to see
Will be paraded across poverty’s eyes
But they will not laugh.
By your wall falling lots of garbages
Neither you cleanse nor you use,
The garbages stir by every wind
Dusts and bad smell spread,
Dusts and bad smell cannot touch you
As surrounded by wall stay you,
So you do not take any step
You only stay in your pomp.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |   10/17/2017
Wild horses we
Pricked at the wind,
Never to know, alas;
That all the lord of our fortunes bought
For us
Was poverty grass.
Poverty grass
The paupered seed
So sickly poor, alas;
The souls of the great untamed grow weak
Despair
On poverty grass.
And you, my friend,
Grew sick awhile,
And cried and cried, alas;
While I grew fat on a flowering weed
Called pride
And poverty grass.
And when you left
The field to me
I almost died, alas;
For I was left in a fallow field
Piled high
In poverty grass.
Wild horses we
Pricked at the wind,
Never to know, alas;
That all the lord of our fortunes bought
For us
Was poverty grass.
24 January 1980
Mom and dad depressed.
Children's bellies extended.
This is poverty.
We laugh and play games
eat macaroni and cheese.
We don't know we're poor.
Poverty, hunger and want of resources,
Still do the rounds,
Human hunger
Burning the belly,
The thirst for water
Choking the throat,
Shade to rest
And to recline.
An egotistical backlog
of creditors
waiting in line
Waiting
to take the cloths
off your back
and the skin
off your bones
All to make money
and to make you broke
while the politicians
who got into power
laugh and smirk
Father, poverty is a gift
Ask any bird taking a rain bath.
Son, don't make's me laugh
There's nothing but rain
Poverty isn't a gift
There's nothing but pain.
So son fastens your reigns
Ride for them riches today
Don't live by wage's daily
Paid only once monthly
Father poverty is a gift.
Son nothing is ever enough,
Just ask your mum.
It is true poverty is a relative thing
A poor bloke buys his girlfriend a ten dollar ring
But to a pauper one with ten dollars is not poor at all
What to one seems big to another seems small,
That poverty is a relative thing seems so true
You may well be poor but many poorer than you
There are millions of homeless on Poverty Street
Searching in rubbish bins to find something to eat
And there are millions who lay down to rest hungry at night
And sleep in the open under the starlight
At least you have a roof over your head and a bed on which to lie
And it will not be of malnutrition that you will die
And of those down on their luck the singer may sing
But poverty can be a relative thing.
Poverty is disguise in blessings
In the sense it has essential feature of tracing
Happiness and joy to which his fortune might lay
And that may keep his spirit up to find the way
Many might have experienced it and felt the burden
With long and hard struggle they might have overcome even
Yet that deep scar and challenges remind everyday
That life is formidable task to overcome and have the sway
The first challenge comes from social environment
You face rough weather from own people with unbearable comments
“See that poor family living barely from hand to mouth “
“They have no social standing”so on and so forth
This is one of saddest stage that makes human being to struggle more
Strong resolves to survive and continue to work hard therefore
With only one aim in life to overcome poverty
And bring the family at par with the blessings from almighty
“No seasons remain permanent” the legendary saying goes on
“Ups and down” in life vanishes the moment fortune makes turn
The opportunity lays open and final score is made
Life smiles at individual and excels in trade
We hear and read successive stories
How big and successful people had faced miseries?
How had they overcome and what was the inspiration?
This all makes us to strive hard and remain in race without any question
It's killing me bit by bit
It enhances my frustration
I'm lonely because of it
Girls want wealth not adoration
Boys are as cheap as sweetmeat
But I can't change my condition
Oh I feel like I'm unfit
Like a house with no foundation
Like a guy of the street
Poverty is not a great shame, but                                      It's a shame upon those who're behind it,                               There are poor people everywhere because                                  Of the greedy people who steal everything,                               Poor people are the products of failed                                    Regimes that steal everything and everyone,                               Poverty talks loudly because it's huge                                    Anytime, anywhere, and everywhere,                                   When there people steal other people                                      It means poverty will prevail and rule,                                   Poverty is a bitter enemy that must be                                   Fought with all might and with all weapons,                            The poor people suffer too much in life                                         Because there are thieves who are stealing                              Them everyday, everywhere, and anywhere,                                          The poor people's fault is the greedy people                                Who are not replenished with everything they take, and                  Poverty is a deadly poison that spreads everywhere.
An infectious disease
spread through the air
or blood.
Nor a dominant gene
passed down
from father to son.
Want is not traced
deep in the palm
of your hand.
No one chooses
to go out daily
alive with hunger.
It is a silent burglar
with a sharp knife
cutting away at will.
Leaving behind only
the form, the shape, the shadows
of what we are.
It may be buried memories from my past
Though still fresh and striking to my heart
How I wish its effects ceases to last
But anytime it flashes my mind, it makes me sad.
I stopped writing about it few months ago
For it irritates the Jones and saddens the slaves
But whenever I spend time alone
I can't help it but to write on my slate.
Haven long been a vibrant slave myself
I have seen, felt and lived in slavery
As it drags multitudes to their premature graves
And causes the deceived, lots of misery.
I remember how it had laid a peasant farmer
To his peaceful rest, because he had a cut
But was not able to seek the help of the doctor,
It is a pity, I feel the pains, it pierces my heart.
I remember my mum, cooking in that dark kitchen,
Fanning the tripod stand with her mouth
Tears dripping from her eyes, what a poor maiden!
I feel her pains too, but I look into the future and laugh.
I also remember how dad returns from the farm, his economy
Where he had lived most of his life, he is very exhausted
But mummy still consoles him, what a happy colony!
Butter and sugar, have in their lives, never tasted.
But they always have one thing, that never perishes,
Although, they have been in slavery for many years
They have hope and dream of a new dawn of riches
Where poverty shall no more be their portion.
Poor people can not eat                                               All kinds of subs and sandwiches                                          Simply because they don't have money                                       To buy them anytime, anywhere, and everywhere,                               They can not eat any kind of fast food,                                    Cooked food, or any kind of food, but                                   They can eat only ready-made food from the garbage                        Or left food on the sidewalks,                                           They don't eat good foods because simply they can't                            Buy any kind of food anytime, anywhere, and everywhere,                  I went everywhere in our pretty world and I saw these                    Poor people eating from the garbage and they go inside                    Just to pick some left food,                                             These poor people when they pick the left or thrown food                   In the garbage or on the sidewalks and these people look                     Like birds picking their food in the same way,                                   The poor people regretfully can't get good food because                     They are poor and they have no choice at all anytime,                   Poor people suffer simply because they lack money and they                 Lack the world's attention though some people have a lot of food,    Our world is greatly unfair about the poor people and may be           Not caring about the poor and their abject poverty anytime, and       Greatly all the world is surely responsible directly or indirectly    Towards all the poor people anywhere, everywhere, and anywhere.
I am a proud man
Not because of my wealth
But for my poverty which provides me
Lots of ideas and thoughts
And helps me to delve into my life
To fetch out some rich philosophies
And break into a way to lead a   life, contended
Without those banal luxury
Moreover I am trilled to think
That in life love and peace
Never dependent on materials
If they are in abundance or in scarcity.
Water simmers on the stove
Grater is turning to pieces, a dry clove
Eyes shimmer with vapour at the door
Outside, enjoying with smells, a beggar
Inside intestine is being cut with dagger
Life is such a mirage with   darkest craze
They are fit, meadow green they graze
Small lines
Poverty
Misery
Combined
A
Guillotine
At last!
Eradication of poverty all over the world
A must and justice to the people
Poverty is not at all a curse or to blame
It is surely the system's failure in sharing.
Poverty the most dreaded thing to experience
To a thinking mind to live without food
Or to the barest minimum of necessities
where it is denied is a cruel thing to experience
Blame the world of poverty and try for corrections
Share the resources to such an equality
At least for two square meals a day
And minimum necessities that humans want
Respect the human being and its dignity all over
Surely poverty is the most objectionable thing
The confidence of life losing in its bottom lines
The unhelpful society accuses the poverty as fate.
The world is so improved in living conditions
But the system  in sharing is rotten and old
Change those inequalities in perfect peace
Allowing the human life more possibilities and change.
Life is short and human life is precious
Only the world order can save the humans
The world is fully capable to look after
If there is a perfect world with change of mind
Contentment, kindness, and humanity be preserved.
When we talk each other
As a subject and object
Not as a brother and sister
That is poverty
When there's an empty space between us
Could only be stepped in
by your permit and requirements
That is poverty
When there's a ToR you decided on man
By annoying the value of him
And fact that we are all equal
That is poverty
And the poverty is
My plea to God
in times you put me on debat
and neglect my wounded heart
***
Jakarta,2008
I hate this grinding poverty—
To toil, and pinch, and borrow,
And be for ever haunted by
The spectre of to-morrow.
It breaks the strong heart of a man,
It crushes out his spirit—
Do what he will, do what he can,
However high his merit!
I hate the praise that Want has got
From preacher and from poet,
The cant of those who know it not
To blind the men who know it.
The greatest curse since man had birth,
An everlasting terror:
The cause of half the crime on earth,
The cause of half the error.
Every night you question your poverty,
while rich people enjoy their frivolity.
To you life just doesn't seem fair,
you being left in ashes and despair.
But every once in a while, you'll see
Lady Luck might just choose you to be
On top of the world, then you feel alone,
'cause to be like them, your heart must be of stone.
I'd rather eat my piece of bread,
than drink the blood of others instead.
I'd rather have my glass of life,
than stab my fellow travellers with a knife.
I'd rather enjoy my poverty in peace,
than beg for mercy on my knees...
I saw an old cottage of clay,
And only of mud was the floor;
It was all falling into decay,
And the snow drifted in at the door.
Yet there a poor family dwelt,
In a hovel so dismal and rude;
And though gnawing hunger they felt,
They had not a morsel of food.
The children were crying for bread,
And to their poor mother they’d run;
‘Oh, give us some breakfast,’ they said,
Alas! their poor mother had none.
She viewed them with looks of despair,
She said (and I’m sure it was true),
‘’Tis not for myself that I care,
But, my poor little children, for you.’
O then, let the wealthy and gay
But see such a hovel as this,
That in a poor cottage of clay
They may know what true misery is.
And what I may have to bestow
I never will squander away,
While many poor people I know
Around me are wretched as they.
The poor
The homeless
The mother
The father
The son
The daughter
One by one
Died of hunger
The aunt
The uncle
The niece
The cousin
Followed them later
Oh! Poverty
Killing all the makers of history
Will you and I live to see?
Poverty being history?
June 5,2005
O poverty, thou hast made me great.
Thou hast made me honoured like Christ
With his crown of thorns. Thou hast given me
Courage  to reveal all. To thee I owe
My insolent, naked eyes and sharp tongue.
Thy curse has turned my violin to  a sword.
O proud saint, thy terrible fire
Has rendered my heaven barren.
It has prematurely dried beauty.
My feelings and my life.
Time and again I stretched my lean, cupped hands
To accept the gift of the beautiful.
But those hungry ones always came before me.
And did snatch it away ruthlessly,
Now my word of imagination is
Dry as a vast desert.
And my own beautiful!
My yellow-stalked pensive desire
Wants to blossom like the fragrant shefali.
But thou cruel one
Dost ruthlessly break the soft stalk
As the woodcutter chopsthe branches
Off the trees. My heart  grows tender
Like the autumn morning
It fills with love
Like the dew-laden earth.
But thou art the blazing sun
And thy fiery heart dries up the tiny dropp of the earth
I grow listless in the shadowy skirt of the earth
And my dreams of beauty and goodness vanish!
With a bitter tongue thou askest,
'What's the use of nectar?
It has no sting, no intoxication, no madness it.
The search for heaven's secred drink
Is not for the in this sorrow-filled earth.
Thou art the serpent, born in pai.
Thou will sit in the bower of thorns
And weave the garland of flowers.
I put on thy forehead the sing
Of suffering and woe.'
So I sing, I weave a garland,
While my throat is on fire,
And my serpent daughter bites me all over!
O unforgiving Durbasha! thou wanderest
From door to door with thy beggar's bowl.
Thou goes to the peaceful abode of
Some sleeping happy couple
And sternly callest, 'O fool,
Knowest thou, that this earth is not anybody's
Pleasure bower for luxury adn ease.
Here is sorrow and separation
And a hundred wants and disease.
Under the arms of the beloved
There are thorns in the bed,
And now must thou prepare
To savour these.' The unhappy home
Is shattered in a moment,
And woeful laments rend
The air. The light of joy is extinguished
And endless nights descends.
Thou walkest the road alone
Lean, hungry and starved.
Suddenly some sight makes thy eyebrows
Arch in annoyance and thine eyes
Blazeforth-fires of anger!
And lo! famine, pestilence and tornado
Visit the country, pleasuregarden burn,
Palaces tumble, thy law
Knows nothing but death and destruction.
Nor for thee the license of courtesy.
Thou seekest the unashaamed revelation of stark nakedness.
Thou knowest no timid hesitation or polite embarrassment
Thou dost raise high the lowly head.
At thy signal the travellers on the road to death
Put round their neck the fatal noose
With cheerful smile on their faces!
Nursing the fire of perennial want in their bosom
They worship the god of death in fiendish glee!
Thou tramplest the crown of Lakshmi
Under thy feet. What tune
Dost thou want to wiring
Out of her violin? At thy touch
the music turns into criesof anguish!
Waking up in the morning Iheard yesterday
The plantive Sanai mourning those
Who had not returned yet, At home
The singer cried for them and wept bitter tears
And floating with that music the soul of the beloved
Wandered far to the distant spot
Where the love anxiously waited.
This morning I got up
And heard the Sanai again
Crying as mournfully as ever.
And the pensive Shefalika,
sad as a widow's smile,
Falls in clusters, spreading
A mild fragrance in the air.
Today the butterfly dances in restless joy
Numbing the flowers with its kisses.
And the wings of the bee
Carry the yellow of the petals,
It's body covered with honey.
Life seems to have sprung up suddenly
On all sides. Asong of welcome
Comes unconsciously to my lips
And unbidden tears spring to my eyes
Some one seems to have entwined my soul
With that of mother-earth. She comes forward
And with her dust-adorned hands
Offers me her presents.
It seems to me that she is the youngest daughter of mine,
My darling child!
But suddenly wake up with a start. O cruel saint, being my child,
Thou weepest in my home, hungry and stoned!
O my child, my darling one
I could not give thee even a dropp of milk
No right have I to rejoice.
Poverty weeps within my doors forever
As my spouse and my child.
Who will play the flute?
Where shall I get the happy smile
Of the beautiful? Where the honeyed drink
I have drunk deep the hemlock
Of bitter tears!
And still even today
I hear the mournful tune of the Sanai.
[Translation: Kabir Chowdhury  ]
The poor
The homeless
The mother
The father
The son
The daughter
One by one
Died of hunger
The aunt
The uncle
The niece
The cousin
Followed them later
Oh! Poverty
Killing all the makers of history
Will you and I live to see
Poverty being history?
June 5,2005
There's smoke in the air
I walk stupefied;
For, I just witnessed a horrendous sight.
A thin, weakling child, clinging to an equally young mother.
I wonder at God's justice,
To the well-fed, he does not give children and to this beggarly girl (I couldn't muster strength enough to call her a woman) a child at such a young age!
Why O God! this disparity?
To one who cannot feed; a child at such a young age, and to those who can give all the joys of this world,
No children.
It’s the 21st century,
World has advanced in many ways, yet poverty still cries.
Looking at the little boy with tears in eyes,
Desperately searching for love, companion and good clothes
We all know what it clearly indicates and shows,
Poverty.
It haunts me, and part of me wants to make a change and,
the other me wants to forget
but I can surely bet
It’s something one with a good heart wouldn’t do!
If it takes some sacrifice, I’m ready
But is the rest of the world?
I see poverty in a rich man trying to find love,
I see poverty in a well-educated man who lacks modesty.
I see poverty in a literate man who lacks respect for poor.
I see poverty in a selfish man who wants more
The world is still imperfect despite all the advancements,
Because there is,
Poverty.
Poverty
Poverty is female
-can conceive, deliver
-plenty children
-among them
-is hunger
- (it buries the wisdom)
-bears anger and revenge
-from the blindness to culture
-rearing and growing unaware
-jealousy, with it theft
-all the way to murder
As army, together, united
-siblings can raise hell
I alarm rich, owners
-be aware
-must start new way
-provide home, shelter
-build school, colleges
-and surely, share kindness
Let the wolf live with lamb
-leave greed; that crap
Poverty is the curse of life
but some time it is gift for life
if you have no car
you cover your distance
on foot or by public means
you have no mobile phone
you are saved
from unnecessary calls
and will save time
but now-a-days
every one has got
Due to lack of money
you can not take rich food
you are saved from unforeseen disease
like sugar, high blood pressure etc.
if you have enough money
you will always be thinking
for better investment
you can hardly spare your time
to attend church, temple, mosque etc
you will be deprived
from attachment of God
if you have money
more than your requirement
donate humbly and generously
for charity
Money is the means
not the matter
do not run behind money
let the money run behind you.
(Do not run behind money - i mean to say not to earn money by evil means)
he was born poor..
his whole life..
he lived..plagued by po(v)  erty..
his rich neighbor had a dog..
he wished..
he were the rich man's dog..
The entity that is dreaded by all but ever present everywhere, a non-respecter of age,
Poverty does not have regard for race, nor nationality, as it is present in every part of the globe,
Poverty breeds diseases, it has siblings like misery, ignorance, illiteracy, dejection, rejection, degradation, agony,
Poverty means the  difference between haves and have-nots,  the rich and the poor, the upper and the lower class,
Poverty is a quick destroyer of human as it makes people ‘sell' lots of things including conscience, and destroys self-esteem,
Poverty, what a curse that has a spectrum; from mild, relative, to abject poverty,
Poverty is a monster that destroys families, communities and societies, always a bad commodity in the market place,
Poverty determines how you get treated by the society, and you are loathed for your status,
Poverty gets written all over you once you are in the lower class, caste system in every society is a celebration and endorsement of poverty as social classification,
Some societies believe you are born into poverty and you should be in poverty for life, please ask who is a 'Dalit' in Asia,
Poverty makes people call you 'Church rat', the basics of everyday living become luxuries to the poor,
Poverty robs you of dignity, it robs you of a chance to be heard, as ‘ no good ideas come from the poor',
Poverty in father, poverty in mother, definitely rubs off on the children, poverty is a disease difficult to cure,
Poverty is a giant monster that can only be tamed by dedicated hard-work, prayers as Jabez did, and may seem un-surmountable, may be intimidating, but can be defeated,
Every mother discusses poverty with her kids, how terrible and merciless of a character is poverty,
Poverty is the character every father tells its fairy tale and the importance of using education as weapon to attack it,
Poverty an equal opportunity degrader of a person, multiple acronyms have been given to poverty in every culture and society.
As in the house I sate,
Alone and desolate,
No creature but the fire and I,
The chimney and the stool, I lift mine eye
Up to the wall,
And in the silent hall,
Saw nothing mine
But some few cups and dishes shine,
The table and the wooden stools
Where people used to dine;
A painted cloth there was,
Wherein some ancient story wrought
A little entertained my thought,
Which light discovered through the glass.
I wondered much to see
That all my wealth should be
Confined in such a little room,
Yet hope for more I scarcely durst presume.
It grieved me sore
That such a scanty store
Should be my all;
For I forgot my ease and health,
Nor did I think of hands or eyes,
Nor soul nor body prize;
I neither thought the sun,
Nor moon, nor stars, nor people mine,
Though they did round about me shine;
And therefore was I quite undone.
Some greater things, I thought,
Must needs for me be wrought,
Which till my craving mind could see
I ever should lament my poverty;
I fain would have
Whatever bounty gave,
Nor could there be
Without or love or deity;
For should not he be infinite
Whose hand created me?
Ten thousand absent things
Did vex my poor and wanting mind,
Which, till I be no longer blind,
Let me not see the King of kings.
His love must surely be
Rich, infinite, and free;
Nor can he be thought a God
Of grace and power, that fills not his abode,
His holy court,
In kind and liberal sort;
Joys and pleasures,
Plenty of jewels, goods, and treasures,
To enrich the poor, cheer the forlorn,
His palace must adorn,
And given all to me;
For till his works my wealth became,
No love or peace did me inflame:
But now I have a Deity.
The world with its people,
People in different religion,
Religion with various festivals,
Festivals celebrated with joy
Once in a year.
But people in poverty
Could not celebrate,
Some farmer's who produce
Food for the country,
Could not celebrate.
But the people who
Buys the food from farmers
Enjoys the festival.
The people with money,
The people with tradition
Could only celebrate.
Sometimes, the poverty
Makes the people to go on
Wrong way,
Somewhere, the poverty
Had lead to suicide.
What makes the poverty?
Controlling wastage of food
In the country,
May avoid poverty.
Controlling wastage of money
In the country.
Sometimes, somewhere, the things
Which needed to reach people of poverty,
Doesn't reach.
Although some people donate,
Sometimes, Where the donation is done
For their status
The people in poverty are not fulfilled.
Since, the poverty is abolished.
This animal is there,
Waiting with cruel claws,
The teeth are sharp,
Always hungry and vigil,
Eating all our flesh,
Leaving us in skeletal structure,
This animal likes the shout,
As our cries are the lullabies,
It never sleeps, but pretends to be quiet,
It sucks our blood for its thirst,
Our sisters grow beautiful,
Our brothers are handsome and bold,
They are disturbed by this animal,
Whenever they go out for survival,
Brains are the factories of sorrows,
Before we reach our rice pots,
This animal regularly eat the last morsel,
Millions of people eat a meal a day,
As long as this animal is happy and gay,
where the human are careless and weak,
This animal is very strong and in attack mode.
Swarms of ants
Spotted dead
Starving for food
Stocked grains
Stored in ant hills
Stolen overnight
Starving humans
Stealing grains
Survival a question
So pathetic to read
Shell shocked
I shout aloud
Oh God! I beg
Stop these sufferings
Save these innocents!
*Based on an article on 'West africa starvation' in http: //www.guardian.co.uk/......dt 22 jun 2010....which says these words......Starving people in drought-stricken west Africa are being forced to eat leaves and collect grain from ant hills, say aid agencies, warning that 10 million people face starvation across the region.....
Poverty
Is an baleful curse.
A more terrible curse than the plaque.
Poverty hits innocent lives.
Tears peoples relationships.
Brings you into a black hole.
Poverty is an elixir of depression.
Brings on fearfulness.
Like a malicious dragon.
Poverty is ones worst adversary.
Hard to prevent and slay.
POVERTY: WAR OF TODAY
melvin banggollay
Poverty abound everywhere
Even in paradise of plenty
As long as there are brothers
Who seldom eat sweet honey,
as long as there are sisters
under prostitution's malady,
when  children are still under
abuse and exploitation by many
and as long as there are disaster
jeopardizing life and property.
Poverty is a  war and disaster
Hounting every nation today
that can't be won by a leader
without the help of everybody
as it is a war arm with disaster
that can only be hurdled with unity,
frugality, thriftiness with power,
economical spending and industry,
good governance by our leaders
with an undying vow to foster unity
peace and cooperation as brothers
among anyone to preserve humanity.
If I would own nothing, poverty would be my name
If I would acquire wealth, with it a name
Now I pass by my friends of old
They are as strangers, as my feelings are cold
Money has spoiled my heart of flesh
And has relinquished the warmth that was once fresh
Now as I grow old and start to reflect
I realize my mistakes, but can no longer connect
And for this I weep, for when all has been said
What I have been left, is no better than one dead
Men speak of riches and poverty, two extremes of our reality,
But, for many, it would seem, they never enter either extreme,
Some, attaining all they require, never seek to rise any higher,
Some are content living small, but into poverty they never fall.
There are two other extremes, as many chase present dreams,
Woven into the present reality, we see the realm of spirituality,
In the scope of man’s diversity, is an indifference we can see,
Creating in some indecision, caused by man’s worldly religion.
While many recognize The Lord, by many, God is just ignored,
And all following Jesus Christ, become rich in this present life,
But, all who choose to ignore, God, will remain spiritually poor,
Giving rise to spiritual poverty, along with a spiritual prosperity.
There’re men who go to church, week after week as they perch,
Within their very favorite pew, but, never have been born anew,
Hearing those they espouse, thinking there are in God’s house,
Empty sermons are all they preach, as Truth they do not teach.
Many religious people you know, are churched, but never grow,
Falling away, into apostasy, becoming impoverished spiritually;
The poor shall always be friend, until this Age comes to an end,
As true riches all believers see, when with God we enter Eternity.
(Copyright ©05/2010)
you look at the poverty of other people
romancing it like a metaphor in your poetry
the color of a man's unwashed shirt with mud
and blood, dried sweat,
the sound of a hungry baby like the sound
of thunder coming from the breasts of mountains
the ignorant woman like a beautiful native naked
and bathing in the river and rising like a famous nude painting
their poverty to the rhythm of some blues
the colors in brown, and black and violet and scarlet
the trembling hands and biting lips and blank stares
the blackest background ever
to a future as  bleak as ember
to a poverty hopeless as ever.
Alack, what poverty my Muse brings forth,
That having such a scope to show her pride,
The argument all bare is of more worth
Than when it hath my added praise beside.
O, blame me not if I no more can write!
Look in your glass, and there appears a face
That overgoes my blunt invention quite,
Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.
Were it not sinful then striving to mend,
To mar the subject that before was well?
For to no other pass my verses tend
Than of your graces and your gifts to tell;
And more, much more than in my verse can sit,
Your own glass shows you when you look in it.
O, Poverty! though from thy haggard eye,
Thy cheerless mien, of every charm bereft,
Thy brow that Hope's last traces long have left,
Vain Fortune's feeble sons with terror fly;
I love thy solitary haunts to seek.
For Pity, reckless of her own distress;
And Patience, in her pall of wretchedness,
That turns to the bleak storm her faded cheek;
And Piety, that never told her wrong;
And meek Content, whose griefs no more rebel;
And Genius, warbling sweet her saddest song;
And Sorrow, listening to a lost friend's knell,
Long banished from the world's insulting throng;
With thee, and thy unfriended offspring, dwell.
The horrific specter called Poverty,
Ruining most illustrious of men;
Denying them much of their liberty;
Suppressing talents and scholastic ken.
The snow-balling avalanche that kills man,
Great scholars, scientists, poets, genius;
Putting them to death in her lion’s den,
Humiliation caused by an empty purse!
Oh, how the nightmare can affect these minds!
Sucking the sap of life in a few years;
Perpetually haunting them, it binds
To destroy sometimes, the souls of some seers.
Poverty generates great Poetry!
How can man live by writing poems free?
A birth in poverty is luck supreme!
A death in poverty, a great blessing;
A life of poverty is rare a dream;
Achievements great, stark poverty can bring.
’Tis poverty that goads nations do feats;
’Tis poverty that stimulates scientists;
In everything, poverty, wealth just beats;
The greatest men were in poverty’s lists.
And poverty lessens our worries much;
Account to God will be much easier;
Poverty gives the saint a divine touch;
In poverty, poets can fly higher!
Poverty helps to shun worldly pleasures;
A soul in poverty, Heaven allures.
9-14-2002
At least spare a thought for the children the children of Poverty Street
They are homeless as young teenagers and against the odds they must compete
Their parents serving time for robbery and narcotic offences and most of their role models in jail
Their circumstance of birth is a huge mark against them the poor young people destined to fail.
They steal for to buy food, drugs and alcohol on Poverty Street life is tough
Too young much too young to be homeless without shelter and sleeping rough
They are pushed to the social fringes the young people society disown
Ignored by the Government Bureaucracies and to the Police only known.
Who could envy them their existence those born into cruel circumstance
The Gods are completely against them of success they do not stand a chance
For them life is such a great battle they must battle their ghosts of despair
They don't even dream of the good life to them life is very unfair.
You who waffle on of life's choices with you talk is always so cheap
Bet you were not homeless at thirteen and on a park bench had to sleep
You would not talk of life's choices if you had to steal for to eat
If you felt alone and abandoned like the children of Poverty Street.
Poverty
Poverty is a curse for human society
Poverty prevails there where the injustice is
Poverty exclaims there where the illiteracy  is
Poverty is purely man made
So it has to be eradicated from its root
The society afflicted with poverty
Is reprehension of entire human society
Corruption is the source of poverty
Only a fearless society can be said
Free from all poverty
Where the people are dumb and discounted
Poverty exists there
Poverty shows, how many immature  person
Rule the country
Poverty is the reason for all philosophical end.
THE IMPACT OF POVERTY ON EDUCATION.
INTRODUCTION
There are so many different tools that have been thought relevant in people’s developmental projects both at individual and societal levels. Education is one of such practical tools. Importantly to note, there are also various meanings that denote the broad term ‘education’. In this essay, however, we are mainly interested in defining formal education since our discussion will dwell much on it. According to Nwomonoh (1998) , formal education is the process of gaining knowledge, attitudes, information and skills during the course of life especially at school.
Though education is said to be so instrumental in human development but also in the revamping of world economies, it is very unfortunate that education systems, world wide, are being held to ransom all because of poverty at both governmental and household levels. According to Thibault (2009) , poverty means the shortage of common things such as food, clothing, shelter and safe drinking water, all of which determine our quality of life. It may also include lack of access to opportunities like education and employment which aid the escape of poverty.
Problems in our society are interconnected in one way or the other, just like poverty and personal family problems affect a student’s capability to learn. Improving education entails improving the living conditions of students. Having in mind that education is basically responsible for the development of many countries including Malawi, as the back ground suggests, we cannot afford to bypass such a vital element without a mention. Considering also the fact that poverty is one of the forces that come in the way; blocking the success of education, we feel it rational to look at how the two realities, education and poverty, affect each other both positively and negatively. That is also why we are convinced that this topic is worth studying. Our awareness of this source, poverty, and its impact on education will enable us devise some proper measures of intervention with the hope of minimizing the negative impact of poverty on education. This point, in short, explains the purpose of our investigation and why we are so passionate in getting into this research. During the whole discussion we are being guided by two questions thus, ‘does poverty really affect education? And if it does, what points do we have on the positive and negative impacts of poverty on education? ’
METHODOLOGY
The study was basically qualitative in approach because of the nature of the issue that was being addressed. This was the case because the issue of how poverty affects education, both positively and negatively is particularly very difficult to predict the conclusions without penetrating into the core of the issue. For instance, one may unreasonably rush into concluding that poverty affects education negatively only and we cannot even dare to speak of poverty affecting education positively. The study was conducted in three schools namely; Mulunguzi, Masongola and Chirunga Private Secondary schools in Zomba district between 24th April and 3rd May. In this research we used both government and private funded schools to have a more balanced result on how poverty affects formal education in these different institutions. The information required for the study was collected through group interviews of form three students and individual interviews with teachers using semi-structured interview schedules. We opted to use these interviews in the first place because we felt books are more theoretical whereas a field research is practical and it involves real life experiences. Nevertheless, we still used desk research as a supplementary source of information and for clarity in some areas.
RESULTS
Positive impacts of poverty on education
To begin with, poverty encourages one to get educated and of course work hard in class. This is because the problems faced due to poverty are very serious and therefore students who are from poverty stricken families strive to end the problems and one of the best solutions is through education. That is to say, if a person, for instance, due to poverty, is taking just a meal in a day instead of three meals, and again if he/she is sometimes sleeping on an empty stomach, he/she will resort to education bearing in mind that if he/she gets educated they will secure formal employment and eventually be able to make ends meet for themselves as well as fending for their families.
Not only does poverty encourage one to get educated, but also it helped in the introduction of free primary education. In Malawi, for instance, when Bakili Muluzi became president, he introduced free primary education and he had eliminated the requirements for school uniform forthwith (Kadzamira & Rose,2001) . This had increased the access to education dramatically as those pupils who were coming from less privileged families were also given access to this free primary education. It should also be noted that the free primary education system was not only implemented to fulfill an electoral pledge  but also bearing in mind that some families were not able to send their children to school due to poverty. Free primary education was there to deal with illiteracy by reducing families’ direct costs of education. Again due to the influx in the number of pupils in primary schools; there was a lack of teachers. Sonani (2002) , testifies that the Ministry of Education re-employed all retired teachers below the age of 65. This also meant that the once retired teachers got back to their source of income which helped them support their families as well as hauling the economy of the country. The implementation of free primary education system in Malawi forced the government to provide infrastructures so as to accommodate the large number of pupils in these schools. Simply put, poverty had led to the introduction of free primary education which means that more children are going to school, and again more teachers are being trained and getting employed and finally the construction of school blocks culminating into infrastructural development, all these branching from poverty.
We may also look at poverty from a positive angle bearing in mind that when a country is poor more funds and donations come into it. These funds and donations are also given to the education sector to build new infrastructures and in the maintenance of already existing ones in the sector. These privileged countries also provide learning materials to schools that are poor as a result students in these less privileged schools perform well in accordance with the amount and quality of the learning materials that they have been provided with. For instance, a United States based non governmental organization known as “Water for People” handed over 44 water toilets they built to Chimwankhunda primary school. The school toilet facilities had been vandalized 11 years ago but because of poverty the school could not renovate them (Gausi,2007) .
In addition, these funds and donations help more people to get educated. This is so because people can use funds as school fees, pocket money and buy stationery. The donations may include library books, chairs and writing materials. These can make a conducive environment for one to learn since there will be enough facilities at the school. For instance, with funding from the “United States Agency for International Development” (USAID) ,3,300 needy Malawian primary school girls are being funded. They are being provided with food, clothing, school supplies and hygienic products like soap and body lotion (Muhaliwa,2005) . Likewise,500 pupils at Katoto primary school in Mzuzu no longer sit on the floors during lessons courtesy of Southern Bottlers Limited and Lions Club of Limbe. Before these funds and donations, pupils used to sit on the floor due to scarcity of desks. These donations improved the pupils’ school attendance in such a way that pupils have started going to school regularly.
In the same line, a needy student can be given a scholarship to go further with his/her education. In this case the scholarship is given to the person just because he/she cannot manage to pay school fees on her own. This in turn benefits the needy person and the community at large. In this situation poverty has assisted in the development of education in an area by beckoning funds and donations from rich countries and organisations.
Further more; in most cases poverty facilitates one’s ambitions to attain formal education. It becomes easier for a poor child to put much of his concentration on education as compared to a rich child. This is because a poverty stricken student will have less destructive materials for entertainment. He/she will also have less or no money to indulge him/herself in activities that require spending a lot of money for instance, drinking beer. Sometimes even if the child can find money he/she can buy basic needs and not just spending it anyhow. Contrast to this a rich child may obtain things like ipods, mp3s, games for entertainment. These things in most cases destruct the concentration of students in their studies. As a result, one’s class performance is negatively affected since most of his/her time is being spent on entertainment.
Negative impacts of poverty on education
Just as a coin has got two sides, a head and a tail, poverty also, apart from having positive impacts on education, it does have negative impacts on the same. We have talked much about the positive face of poverty on education. We shall surely do ourselves injustice if we do not look at the negative part. In spite of the fact that poverty has an impact on education that is worth complimenting, we cannot afford in this discussion to overlook the point that so many students have been forced to leave the corridors of learning institutions due to the same poverty. One of the reasons that force some students leave the learning institutions prematurely is pregnancy, which in most cases, come because of poverty. It is almost common knowledge that a good number of students who come from poor families wish they could be sailing in the same boat with those who come from well to do families as far as luxurious life is concerned. The poor students constantly feel that there is something missing at the core psychologically. With this feeling in their minds, they tend to regard themselves as incomplete and not accepted socially. Consequently, they envy the rich students and squarely want to posses the things that are associated with the rich students. Very unfortunate that the poor students’ parents cannot afford to fulfill their children’s desires like what the rich parents would provide. Because the pull towards recognition is too strong for the poor students to resist, they end up in indulging themselves into prostitution in their search for money. Pity indeed that instead of recreating, as anticipated, their promiscuous behavior sees most of them getting pregnant and for some very unfortunate ones get even HIV and other STIs. From this discussion, commonsense convinces us that this school dropp out due to pregnancy is one of the negative impacts of poverty on education.
Adding more flesh to this discussion, we can also appreciate that hunger has been so instrumental in bringing down the standards of education world wide, in general, and Malawi, in particular. Frankly speaking, there are very few students if not none, who concentrate on their studies on empty stomachs. Food is one of the basic needs that every person is obliged to have if he/she is to survive.  It is not surprising, therefore, to see some students performing miserably in class simply because they have not taken enough food or they have taken none altogether. The question of hunger finds its way into the education system because the government has failed to provide adequate food in most of its boarding schools. This is poverty at governmental level. There are also some students who are not boarders but still endure the hostile reality of hunger right in their homes. This is due to poverty at household level. It is sad that poverty, both at governmental and household level, has helped in engineering the deteriorating of education standards in Malawi.
Bearing in mind that it is only the eagle that can tell us the real whisper of a cloud, we visited Masongola Secondary school with the hope of getting first hand information from the students and their teachers since they are the ones who mostly benefit or get destructed by poverty. The Masongola secondary school students and their teacher, Mr. Enock Abraham, testified to us during an interview that government’s inability to provide extra food, apart from the usual beans that the institution offers, has seen many students developing ulcers. It would sound bizarre to reason that one can attend classes whilst he/she is on a hospital bed battling with ulcers. The Masongola students further testified that most poor students who have ulcers just bow down out of the race of learning because they cannot afford to buy extra food whenever the institution is serving the students beans.
This pitiful development goes beyond the boundaries of Masongola secondary school. Mulunguzi secondary school as Mr……the head teacher at the institution testifies, has not been spared from the scourge of school dropp outs simply because the school has not been able to provide  extra or adequate food to students who cannot take what their friends take on health grounds. Needless to say this leaves the education standards in Malawi vacillating. It is a pity that though we have wrestled with this question of poverty a dozen times, we have not been successful in the battle. At one point in time, the government attempted to minimize the chances of school dropout in primary schools through its provision of porridge to pupils in the junior section. This attempt was in itself a good gesture but the government has failed to implement the initiative further in other schools that up to now have not benefited from the program.
It may not sound an exaggeration if we may say poverty has also forced a good number of students to give up their hopes of getting educated simply because they find it so difficult traveling to and from their respective schools. Lack of transport means, in short, has pushed them well towards the blink of despair as far as attaining formal education is concerned. This point speaks for itself how poverty can sometimes work on the education’s disadvantage.
As we go further with this discussion, we also appreciate the fact that the problem that mostly hinders a student’s success is inadequate resources that include; few teachers and learning materials. It must be highlighted that these problems are not only in developing countries but they may also find their way in reasonably developed countries like South Africa. In a developing country like Malawi, the education system encounters these problems because of the government’s failure to look into problems of infrastructure, capacity and availability of teaching and learning materials (Nkawike,2005) . The Muluzi government did a little if any; in as far as infrastructure is concerned. Lack of school blocks facilitated by a large number of pupils due to the introduction of the free primary education in 1994, forced pupils to have lessons under trees. In 2003, for example, lack of school blocks resulted in a tragedy at Nkomachi in Lilongwe when a tree fell onto an outdoor class, resulting in injury and deaths of pupils (Mvula & Chanika,2004) . This problem of learning materials continues till date, in all levels of the education system. According to Abraham (2009) , the school has always had shortage of learning blocks to an extent that the Physical Science and Biology laboratories are used as classrooms. There is also great shortage of books in all departments, and some departments like the technical department needs new equipment and current books which are very expensive. With this unfortunate situation we cannot anticipate good performance from Masongola secondary school.
In order to deal with these issues, the Muluzi government thought it wise to disregard the provision of learning materials in schools. Instead the Malawi School Certificate of Education (MSCE)  pass mark was reduced to ensure the success of students in their examinations. Even the director of Basic Education, Nelson Kaperemera admitted that funds intended for learning materials were servicing the debts of government at the expense of improving quality education. Instead of reducing the pass mark, the government and other stake holders should strive to improve quality of education, improve teacher salaries, and provide adequate materials and train teachers properly (Malawi News,2006) .
In developing countries like Malawi, the schools are understaffed (teaching personnel)  and they tend to be handling a large number of students for long hours. Furthermore, the teachers are subjected to meager salaries, which are even made late. The government does not seem to have the welfare of teachers at heart, for instance the education Manager for Phalombe, Enoch Ali says the district is facing a dire shortage of teachers, a situation that is contributing to low education standards. The teacher pupil ratio in Phalombe is  1: 120, whilst the recommended ratio is 1: 60 (The Nation,2006) . Due to low pay teachers resort to organizing part time classes, which demand an extra amount of money on top of the normal fees. These changes clearly affect those students who come from very poor families, as they do not receive adequate studies because of lack of money.
This does not only occur in secondary schools, but it also happens in universities. As the academic staff of the Universities go on strike because of the government’s reluctance to increase their salaries. One considers how this is supposed to retain staff in the University. As a result lecturers spend more time doing consultancies; instead of preparing lectures and doing University mandated research. If we are serious about fighting poverty, formal education is the hub of ideas to fight these problems by improving its standards (Kapasula,2008) .
Child labour is one of the major problems that contribute to school dropp out. The majority of child labour victims are children who are living in poverty. This is so because they lack basic needs, for this reason they are forced even against their will to do any kind of work in order to gain financial wealth. This, therefore, affects school attendance. Evidence of school dropp out due to child labour is found in central region where most children are being employed in estates. This region has high tobacco production. Since this crop demands a lot of work, children are at high demand because they do not claim high wages compared to adults. Research, therefore, showed that the percentage of children attending schools is lower compared to that of northern and southern region (Nyirongo,2004) . We have the case of two brothers aged between 12 and 15 who were forced to work at a tobacco farm at Mpherembe in Kasungu district, where they were receiving 150 kwacha a day due to poverty (Namangale,2005) . We can see that child labour has a great impact on education because through it, a lot of children are being deprived of their right to education as they spend most of their time working.
In addition to that,  Chirwa (2003)   found out that child labour is also taking place in people’s houses. In this case children are forced to dropp out of school either by parents or on their own, to work in neighbouring homes. Here one of the victims is a 12 year old girl Elizabeth Chalimba, who left school when she was in standard six to work as a nanny in order to support her siblings.  Children from low income families are at risk because though school is their only hope for a better future, they dropp out because their parents are failing to provide them with basic needs. Apart from child labour, psychological problems due to poverty is also another cause of school dropp outs. Research shows that the impact of poverty is greater on children as opposed to adults. Firstly, the problem arises due  to the environment in which these children are raised.  These environments being impoverished, they are intellectually unstimulating, and lack of stimulation results in impaired intellectual development of a child. This in turn contributes to failure in class which can later on lead to school dropp out.
Another problem comes when disadvantaged children are at school, they fail to understand why they do not have the same access to materials as their well to do friends. All of a sudden they start considering themselves failures and that there is little they can do about their destiny. Furthermore, if in class their friends or sometimes teachers seem not to care much about them, they get disturbed emotionally. Unable to cope with these psychological and physiological needs, they react by withdrawing out of school to be at home where friends and parents show interest in them. In some cases children living in poverty do not complete their education because they lack inspiration and support from parents. These children receive either little or no inspiration and support as compared to those who come from middle or high income earning families. This is so because their parents did not go far with their education, and are not fully aware of the crucial role education plays in their children’s future. This also happens because their parents are often absent leaving no one at home to supervise or assist their children with school work.  As a result, this often affects children’s education and decreases the probability that they could go far with their studies (Weinstein,1999) .
CONCLUSION
This discussion has addressed to a greater extent problems encountered in the education sector due to poverty. While the elucidation pays more attention to the negative impacts of poverty on education, at some points it also highlights some of the positive impacts which are greatly outweighed in our discussion. Firstly, we discussed the positive impacts on education whereby; Poverty forces one to get educated by working hard, it helped in the introduction of free primary education system (in Malawi) , developed countries give funds to poor countries  and poverty gets a person away from destructive ‘social pleasures’ of the world. Afterwards, we discussed the negative impacts whereby; poverty affects a person psychologically, poor people get limited resources (food and materials) , as a result, there is an increase in dropouts and lastly the personnel in the education systems are not fully equiped by the government. These findings are very vital to secondary schools as they enable us approach the problems in those schools squarely and well prepared. After the research we also look at poverty from a perspective that would not be taken by many. Thus, after reflecting on the positive impacts of poverty on education, we tend to look at poverty as a blessing in disguise. Our awareness of whatever findings we have on the table after the investigation, will help us see where things are not well and how or what should be done to address the problems. It is only from the findings that a way for our intervention is paved to minimize the negative impact of poverty on education.
RECOMMENDANTIONS
These results can be used in Secondary schools in the following ways;
•	Schools should identify those students who are needy to receive donations.
•	Teachers should adjust their timetables or come up with make up classes to accommodate students who come from distance places.
•	Teachers or social workers should provide psychological help to students who are affected psychologically by poverty.
•	Government should provide some transport means like buses and enough learning materials.
•	Those who need special diet on health grounds should be given food that suits their condition.
•	Schools should encourage Parent-Teacher Association (PTA)  meetings to discuss the welfare of the students.
< br>
LIST OF REFERENCES
Gausi, C. (September 12,2007)  US NGOs refurbishes toilets for schools. The Nation. p4.
Muhaliwa, M. (August 9,2005)  CRECCOM in new girl’s education program. Daily Times. p4.
Sobo. (May 22,2006)  Coca-Cola serves katoto FP school. The Nation.p12.
Namangale, f. child labor shifts to small farms (Ecam) . CFSC press review.
October 2005, p.56
Nyirongo, E.H.K. poor education is by religion. CFSC press review. January 2005, p.52
Weinstein, G.1986. The disadvantaged: challenge to education. Harper & row: London
Nwomonoh, J. (1998)  Education and development in Africa. London: I.S.P. Publications.
Pp255-257
Sonani, B. (2002, Sept.21-27) .Temporary teachers’ programme collapses.Malawi News, p.3
Kadzamira, E.& Rose, P.(2001, January) .Education policy choice and policy practice in Malawi: Dilemmas and disjunctures. Institute of Development Studies working paper,124.
I met her on the Umbrian hills,
Her hair unbound, her feet unshod:
As one whom secret glory fills
She walked, alone with God.
I met her in the city street:
Oh, changed was all her aspect then!
With heavy eyes and weary feet
She walked alone, with men.
الفقير                                                                 ما بيشحد و لو بدو يموت                                                 لأن الشحادة عيب                                                        و اللي بيشحد مانو فقير                                                 الشحاد بيمد ايدو متر                                                   ليشحد من هون و هون                                                    و الفقير ابي النفس                                                     و لكن الايام غلبتو                                                     و يمكن اشياء و اشياء خلتو فقير...........                              الفقر ليس عيبا                                                        و انما الشحادة اكبر عيب...                                             في ناس الشحادة عندون مكسب                                              لأننون ماخسرانين شي                                                     اذا مدو ايدون شبر و لامتر                                                في ناس بتبزء بوشون                                                     بيئولوا عما تمطر...                                                   في ناس كتير....                                                        ماشفت فقير عم يشحد                                                     بس شفت ناس بتشحد                                                      و ما بحاجة للمصاري او الفلوس...                                       عيب... انتي اللي عم تشحد                                              زوء على حالك...                                                      بس الفقير فئرو                                                         الو الف سبب و سبب                                                     و الله ما بيترك حدا                                                      كل مين جايلو رزئو...                                                  الفقر مش عيب                                                          الشحادة عيب...                                                       21-08-2014                                                            - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Above our  heads is the bright  moon
Is she busy now   with honey-moon?
Under her is the clumsy   poverty crone
Dancing naked  empty belly with a croon
Will she come down  to stop her soon?
(he shouts about politics, while we have here about poetry)
....he read that
mine poetry about this poverty
the stupidity started scolding me
declared instantly me-moi as its enemy
its words, so absurd
a lunatic so terrific
not its area nor its section
I oft write in Dutch and this is mine declaration
I do now one step lower
from "it" I step a bit lower down to "his"
his profession does not read poetry
but he thought he could read
poetry poesy and poems
true very pity
not his art nor his profession
he meddles in everything
mine poetic wings, not his thing
Oft to my Queendom he comes
he thinks he could reign me
that was his greatest mistake
he thought he could read
I too thought that he could read
but....I was mistaken
mine loved friend said he loves to read
I too thought that he loves to read
it seemed so, it looked so
but....I was mistaken
after having walked amongst this poverty
I must conclude in tears and tragedy
this is the worst and most tragic comedy
I ever knew after my literal study
after he read my poetry
in the darkest café while drinking wild wine
he copied the full title of mine poetry
"Saddest about the poverty nowadays"
and instantly mailed me,
that I started talking about politics
I thought he could read poetry
but....I was mistaken
my loved one never knew
the alienating appearance of this blind male
I wrote about true poetry and its poverty
he associated with politics
once again here I repeat my last poem's title
"Saddest about the poverty nowadays"
his unwanted eyes are peeping constantly
copying my poem, the constant liar
he read mine poetry
I wrote about the poverty in poetry
instantly he started shouting about politics
just like this fake person
he has that poverty I have in mind
about vocabulary, grammar, and all that kind
I thought he could read poetry
I was mistaken
he was peeping constantly
at mine poetry
I wrote about words, nouns
the present and the past
and all the tenses
it pained all my senses
when he accused me of politics
of yelling at innocent persons
shouting at innocent poets
not mine strife in this forsaken life
I am suffering from pain
restrained
I thought he was clever
I am now mistaken forever
Oft I asked my lover
do you wish to know who he is?
he is all there darkest is, except God's Bliss
a constant stalker, an insane chatter
an aliphatic androgyne appearance
this is the biggest difference….
Photography by Sylvia Frances Chan: "Winter-Mourning Landscape"
© Sylvia Frances Chan
Copyright Protected
AD.Wednesday the 17th of January 2018.
@ 8.43 hrs.A.M. West-European Time
Profit and loss sheets are spread
separated by hyperboles and conjectures
upon my desktop and the poverty of my brain
As I try to amass some common sense approach
To what it all means to me
Reduced receivables don't add up
and one must make the deductions
for the ever rising cost of raw materials
Discount specials on an inventory of older dreams
I seem to have forgotten my humble beginnings
When I loved Life and not the Dollar....
the poverty of the world
the hunger of the children
will always be here
no matter what
no matter when
now, tell me
what makes you different
from their hunger from their poverty?
Freedom in our land not gives us enough food,
Freedom in our land not has enough work,
Freedom in our land creates the lazy cowards,
Freedom in our land not worth to have power of people,
Believe me that we are free to do anything that could,
Walking through the streets to find out the meaning,
Of acquired freedom that we have to materialize nothing.
What a rush is this, human have no direction to go towards,
What a mad rat race is it, that human take part in it,
What a planner are these people,
who neglect the people in their planning,
What type of freedom is it that put,
minds of people in the prison of poverty?
If the rich people
Becomes more sympathetic
There will be no poor
It has no joy—
No bells to ring.
No songs for
The heart to sing.
Dawn to dawn,
It plagues the poor,
With relief—
Nevermore.
It doesn’t give,
But rather takes—
Leaving victims
In its wake.
It gives no peace
And little sleep.
And drains the faith
Until it’s weak.
Hunger seems
To be its trend.
Will such stigma
Never end?
And always,
There's uncertainty,
But such is the way
Of poverty.
What does poverty really entail?
How bad does it have to get?
For some a bad economy
Is poverty from where they sit
But if you look back to hard times
During the early years
It’s not having a home to live in
The hopelessness can bring tears
The Great Depression had it all
No jobs and no place to dwell
Barely enough to eat or nothing at all
These folks went through hell
Thread bare was the term for clothing
Dirt poor was a phrase as well
Looking at black and white pictures
Oh yes, you can surely tell
It’s a time when we hope God
Is able to see
That folks need His help because
They have slipped into poverty!
299
Your Riches—taught me—Poverty.
Myself—a Millionaire
In little Wealths, as Girls could boast
Till broad as Buenos Ayre—
You drifted your Dominions—
A Different Peru—
And I esteemed All Poverty
For Life's Estate with you—
Of Mines, I little know—myself—
But just the names, of Gems—
The Colors of the Commonest—
And scarce of Diadems—
So much, that did I meet the Queen—
Her Glory I should know—
But this, must be a different Wealth—
To miss it—beggars so—
I'm sure 'tis India—all Day—
To those who look on You—
Without a stint—without a blame,
Might I—but be the Jew—
I'm sure it is Golconda—
Beyond my power to deem—
To have a smile for Mine—each Day,
How better, than a Gem!
At least, it solaces to know
That there exists—a Gold—
Altho' I prove it, just in time
Its distance—to behold—
Its far—far Treasure to surmise—
And estimate the Pearl—
That slipped my simple fingers through—
While just a Girl at School.
ଖୋଲା ଆକାଶ ତଳେ
ଖରା, ବର୍ଷା, ଶୀତକୁଆଲିଗଂନ କରି
ଝାଳ ବୁହାଇ ଚାଲେ
ବଞ୍ଚିବାର କିଛି ସ୍ଵପ୍ନ ନେଇ
କାରଣ, କିଛି ଦାନା ପେଟ ପାଇଁ- ଜୀବନର ଲକ୍ଷ୍ୟ ସେଇ
ତଥାପି ସେ ବଞ୍ଚେ
ହସି ହସି ଗ୍ରହଣ କରେ ପରିସ୍ଥିର ସମସ୍ତ ଦେୟ
ନ ଥାଏ କାହା ପ୍ରତି କେବେ ହେୟ
ଅବା କିଛି ଲୁଟି ହୋଇ ଯିବାର ଭୟ
ଅଥବା ଅନ୍ୟକୁ ଠେଲି ଆଗକୁ ବଢି ଯିବାର ଶ୍ରେୟ
କାରଣ, ସେ ତ ଗରିବ- ଏହା ହିଁ ତାର ପରିଚୟ
ନିତୀ ଆସେ, ଅର୍ଥ ଆସେ
ଗରିବିର ମୂଳ ଉପ୍ତଡନ ସକାଶେ
ବିଶ୍ଳେଷଣ ହୁଏ ବାରମ୍ବାର ମନୀଷୀଙ୍କ ପାସେ
ଲେଖା ହୁଏ ପୋଥି ସବୁ"ଗରିବର ଉତ୍ ଥାନ ସକାଶେ"
ହେଇଛି କି କାର୍ଯ୍ୟକ୍ଷମ ମନ ମଧେ ପ୍ରଶ୍ନ ଆସେ
କାରଣ, ଗରିବଙ୍କୁ ଲୁଟି ଧନୀଙ୍କ ସଂଖ୍ୟା ବଢେ ଦିନ ମାସେ ବର୍ଷେ
ଆଖ୍ୟା ହୋଇପାରେ ଗରିବ ରେଖା ତଳେ
କିନ୍ତୁ ଧନୀ ସେ ମନ ଓ ହୃଦୟର ସ୍ଥଳେ
ଛଡାଇ ନାହିଁ କେବେ ଅନ୍ୟଠୁ କଳବଳ କୌଶଳେ
ଦେଇଛି ନିଜ ଶ୍ରମ, କର୍ମ ପାଇବାକୁ ମୁକ୍ତି ଏଇ ଅଭିଶପ୍ତ ଜୀବନ ପ୍ରାଙ୍ଗଣେ
ସେ ଗରିବ ନୁହେଁ ନିଜ ଇଚ୍ଛା ଯୁକ୍ତେ
ପରିସ୍ଥିତି, ସମାଜ ଦେଇ ନାହିଁ ବଢିବାକୁ ତା ସାଥେ
ବିଚାରିବା ଆସ ଥରେ
ଏଥି ପାଇଁ ଦାୟୀ ଆମେ
ଅବା ଜୀଇଁବା ପ୍ରଣାଳିରେ ତୃଟି ଆମ ପାଖେ
ଅଥବାଆମ ଲୋଭ, ସ୍ଵାର୍ଥ, ଅନ୍ୟକୁ ଲୁଟିବା ସ୍ଵଭାବେ
Seeking the healing power of sleep,
I find no respite in my dreams...
Sinking into slumber deep,
It's not so restful as it seems.
Agony's relived time and again,
Magnified by the helplessness
I feel in my dreams and then
I mourn lost love and happiness
I find more relief in time than sleep,
Although I still relive my loss,
I feel the pain less acutely,
Still there, but not as it once was.
the power of God is truly amazing, he never dissapoints us.  Even when we think he may have forgotten us, he shows his hand and the glory of his love.
I had many family issues in the last few weeks and just couldn't take it anymore so I did what I consider to be the obvious.  I gave all my troubles to God and left them in his hands, my daughter did the same.
I decided to write a prayer letting Satan know he doesn't scare me and at the end of that prayer when I dotted the last period, I heard someone at the door and there was my long lost son.
Earlier in the day, everyone said when they finally see my son again they would hit him, give him a piece of their mind.  All I could do when I laid eyes on him was hug him and let him know how much I loved him.
After giving my troubles over to the Lord, my daughter and I, everything seemed to immediatlely turn around.  I just want to thankyou Jesus.
In the name of your precious son 'Jesus'
Written by:  Melvina Germain
When the rain falls from the sky above,
It is God showering you with tears of love.
When the sun shines on a  bright sunny day.
God’s angels are coming your way.
When the wind blows, and the trees sway.
God speaks and has much to say.
When the snowflakes fall and glisten.
God whispers, we must listen.
When the earth trembles and opens to swallow.
God tells us, there may be no tomorrow.
When the sea lifts and the waters tower.
God warns all of his great power.
When the sounds of thunder are heard.
God insists we follow his word.
When the funnel winds shatter our existence
God gives us tremendous resistence.
When we witness the forces of nature.
There is no doubt of it’s creator.
God reigns in heaven and rules the earth.
We shall remain in awe, of his worth.
Written: February  19,2006
come
lets kiss and rejoice
you..
in my ingenuity,
and me,
in your feeble ability
to forgive
such deviltry,
as
mine
come
lets play blindfolded
you..
will still envision joy
and me apathetic,
oblivious
to the  tears
turning red
blood
as wine
come
lets wear deaf plugs
you..
can then sing along
with my loud booming
rythym..all the while
as the moans of
tattered,
torn,
children..
................die.
just sad...
marriot; islamabad; pakistan..the question is no longer why.
Ah power! Power
Goeth away
and wealth
goeth away
and night
and day
and dawn
and dusk
and I the mystery light
the Bighi light
the light of Bighi hill
will stay.
'Twas at the royal feast for Persia won
By Philip's warlike son—
Aloft in awful state
The godlike hero sate
On his imperial throne;
His valiant peers were placed around,
Their brows with roses and with myrtles bound
(So should desert in arms be crowned);
The lovely Thais by his side
Sate like a blooming eastern bride
In flower of youth and beauty's pride:—
Happy, happy, happy pair!
None but the brave
None but the brave
None but the brave deserves the fair!
Timotheus placed on high
Amid the tuneful quire
With flying fingers touched the lyre;
The trembling notes ascend the sky
And heavenly joys inspire.
The song began from Jove
Who left his blissful seats above—
Such is the power of mighty love!
A dragon's fiery form belied the god
Sublime on radiant spires he rode
When he to fair Olympia prest,
And while he sought her snowy breast,
Then round her slender waist he curled,
And stamped an image of himself, a sovereign of the world.
- The listening crowd admire the lofty sound!
A present deity! they shout around:
A present deity! the vaulted roofs rebound!
With ravished ears
The monarch hears,
Assumes the god,
Affects to nod,
And seems to shake the spheres.
The praise of Bacchus then the sweet musician sung,
Of Bacchus ever fair and ever young:
The jolly god in triumph comes!
Sound the trumpets, beat the drums!
Flushed with a purple grace
He shows his honest face:
Now give the hautboys breath; he comes, he comes!
Bacchus, ever fair and young,
Drinking joys did first ordain;
Bacchus' blessings are a treasure,
Drinking is the soldier's pleasure:
Rich the treasure,
Sweet the pleasure,
Sweet is pleasure after pain.
Soothed with the sound, the king grew vain;
Fought all his battles o'er again,
And thrice he routed all his foes, and thrice he slew the slain.
The master saw the madness rise,
His glowing cheeks, his ardent eyes;
And while he Heaven and Earth defied
Changed his hand and checked his pride.
He chose a mournful Muse
Soft pity to infuse:
He sung Darius great and good,
By too severe a fate
Fallen, fallen, fallen, fallen,
Fallen from his high estate,
And weltering in his blood;
Deserted, at his utmost need,
By those his former bounty fed;
On the bare earth exposed he lies
With not a friend to close his eyes.
- With downcast looks the joyless victor sate,
Revolving in his altered soul
The various turns of Chance below;
And now and then a sigh he stole,
And tears began to flow.
The mighty master smiled to see
That love was in the next degree;
'Twas but a kindred-sound to move,
For pity melts the mind to love.
Softly sweet, in Lydian measures
Soon he soothed his soul to pleasures.
War, he sung, is toil and trouble,
Honour but an empty bubble;
Never ending, still beginning,
Fighting still, and still destroying;
If the world be worth thy winning,
Think, O think, it worth enjoying:
Lovely Thais sits beside thee,
Take the good the gods provide thee!
- The many rend the skies with loud applause;
So Love was crowned, but Music won the cause.
The prince, unable to conceal his pain,
Gazed on the fair
Who caused his care,
And sighed and looked, sighed and looked,
Sighed and looked, and sighed again:
At length with love and wine at once opprest
The vanquished victor sunk upon her breast.
Now strike the golden lyre again:
A louder yet, and yet a louder strain!
Break his bands of sleep asunder
And rouse him like a rattling peal of thunder.
Hark, hark! the horrid sound
Has raised up his head:
As awaked from the dead
And amazed he stares around.
Revenge, revenge, Timotheus cries,
See the Furies arisel
See the snakes that they rear
How they hiss in their hair,
And the sparkles that flash from their eyes!
Behold a ghastly band,
Each a torch in his hand!
Those are Grecian ghosts, that in battle were slain
And unburied remain
Inglorious on the plain:
Give the vengeance due
To the valiant crew!
Behold how they toss their torches on high,
How they point to the Persian abodes
And glittering temples of their hostile gods.
- The princes applaud with a furious joy:
And the King seized a flambeau with zeal to destroy;
Thais led the way
To light him to his prey,
And like another Helen, fired another Troy!
- Thus, long ago,
Ere heaving bellows learned to blow,
While organs yet were mute,
Timotheus, to his breathing flute
And sounding lyre,
Could swell the soul to rage, or kindle soft desire.
At last divine Cecilia came,
Inventress of the vocal frame;
The sweet enthusiast from her sacred store
Enlarged the former narrow bounds,
And added length to solemn sounds,
With Nature's mother-wit, and arts unknown before.
- Let old Timotheus yield the prize
Or both divide the crown;
He raised a mortal to the skies;
She drew an angel down!
You-
Stand by the ocean, shouting, trying to
drown out the cry of the waves
with your voice.
Neptune, god of the sea, powerful while powerless,
in your human psychology
promises you your failure.
You-
Throw yourself to the waves, let go
of all you hold to be true,
find yourself floating.
Power in the waves, in the sun beating down, in the
wind whipping along the shore,
throwing sand like a child throwing a tantrum.
You-
Leave the shore, laughing at jokes
of no importance, leaving behind
a place of power.
A POET LOSES HIS POWER FOR POETRY
A poet loses his power for poetry
He can put down words
But they no longer have poetry in them
Something of the feeling of what real poetry is
is gone.
He strives
He writes again and again
He puts words down in the forms and in the shapes his poems usually take
But he has no poetry in him
He has lost what he is
And all he can do
is strive again and again
Word after word
Silence after silence
To hear within himself again
A voice he does not have.
The poet is writing poetry
And it is not poetry
The poet is dead
And he is pretending to be alive
Is this a poem?
Is he a poet
Is he dead?
Is he alive?
When we would convince men of any error by
the strength of truth, let us additionally pour
the sweet balm of love upon their heads. Truth
and love are two of the most powerful things
in the world; and when they both go together,
they cannot easily be withstood. The golden
beams of truth, and the silken cords of love,
twisted together, will draw men on with a
sweet power, whether they will or not.
Let us take heed we do not sometimes call that
'zeal for God and His gospel' which is nothing else
but our own tempestuous and stormy passion.
True zeal is a sweet, heavenly, and gentle flame,
which makes us active for God-but always within
the sphere of love. It never calls for fire from heaven
to consume those who differ a little from us. It
strives to save the soul-but hurts not the body.
True zeal is a loving thing, and makes us always
active to edification, and not to destruction.
(Cudworth,1647)
'Speaking the truth in love.' Ephes.4: 15
15. January 2008
We will build a tower
With unbridled spring-water attitudes
Flowing with fires of charity
For all the suffering multitudes
Dispossessed and swallowing poverty
We will give them power
We will build a tower
With lots of windows and no ears
With promises for those who have ceased their quest
For the young and old in years
For those who no longer turn west
We will give them power
We will give them power
Give them tomorrows and rainbows in tomorrow’s flowers
Help them fill pitchers with milk, honey, and cream
Reap the green of crops they have never seen
Shelter them from the cold, black screams
They will scale the tower
We will build a tower
They will scale like goats and soar like eagles
Who climbs higher than these birds?
They will peer through rose-colored gothic windows
And see the many rainbows of blooming flowers spilling colors
They will have the power
We will build a tower
For those near and far
Those who lost their dreams
Those who ceased the quest
Those no longer traveling west
Our actions will speak louder than words
They will sing the music of the birds
Learn to disregard the terms
Of all their unanswered yearns
- June 5,2007
I am beyond the help of prayer...I am in the abyss of a double life
One which I brought upon myself and another Fate has dealt me
I was preyed upon and cast into the belly of the Beast
Its lies and deceit washed me in a digestive saliva
Breaking down all of my defenses and leaving me ready
To become nothing more than excrement...
Prayers can't help that kind of shit....
(2007)
The unction cools my brow; the candle shines
and braids a line of sacramental brede;
the priest half-chants the text, and makes the signs,
jogging my mind with the redemptive creed
I learned to lisp in church. A night-shift nurse
shows up with rosary beads and borrowed shawl:
I squeeze my morphine pump; the pain is worse.
A gurney clatters down the empty hall.
I wonder what my blur of meaning meant
to warrant such precautionary flush;
I wonder why the candle's Sunday scent
expands and cloys the sterile room. A hush
folds up all sound; the candle snuffs its flame:
a wisp absconds with my stowaway name.
The sea invades the coastal cliffs,
Battling against its stalwart stone,
Devouring its surface bit by bit,
And leaving it gullible and prone.
The rocks hit back with warlike will,
Facing the churning water's rage,
With ceaseless power, the ocean spars,
And tries, at all times to upstage.
So firm and strong the crags were formed,
And tough and sheer its rock face stands,
But slow erosion there will always be,
As the bluff gives way to the deep's demands.
I never turned anyone into a pig.
Some people are pigs; I make them
Look like pigs.
I'm sick of your world
That lets the outside disguise the inside. Your men weren't bad men;
Undisciplined life
Did that to them. As pigs,
Under the care of
Me and my ladies, they
Sweetened right up.
Then I reversed the spell, showing you my goodness
As well as my power. I saw
We could be happy here,
As men and women are
When their needs are simple. In the same breath,
I foresaw your departure,
Your men with my help braving
The crying and pounding sea. You think
A few tears upset me? My friend,
Every sorceress is
A pragmatist at heart; nobody sees essence who can't
Face limitation. If I wanted only to hold you
I could hold you prisoner.
I happen to be terrified
By cut-throat competition
And sinister backroom deals
Rendering all treasures and rewards
To the obscenely decadent and rich
While the land I love
Descends into a trash heap
Where the poor and dispossessed must weep.
.
There has to be revolution
And the turning of everything
Upside down!
The politics of cruelty
Must be supplanted by compassion,
There must be an underground reaction
To the overt violence and greed
Of those in devastating power
Who currently hold the keys in this dark hour
To the prison cell of this existence.
The word power is ambiguous and mystifying
Power is interrelated and measurable
The word power is vague and ambivalent
Everybody is believed to have some form of power
Nations and societies are said to have their own powers
The use of power depends on circumstances
Power can be used positively or negatively
The president as the commander-in-chief
Has power to declare war and federal emergency
The congress has power to enact laws
The bank has power to grant or deny you a
Loan to improve your status in life
The editor has power to decide what gets
Published in a book, dailies, or journals
Armed forces have power to defend the nation
Police have power to arrest and detain crooks
Medical doctors have power to heal the sick
Many of us have power to make a beggar smile
Voters have power to elect their representatives
For both the lower house and the senate
Employers have power to enrich and enhance
The lives and positions of their employees
Teachers have power to educate our mind
Husbands have power to please their wives
And keep their children happy and contented
As power cannot be used or exercised in isolation
We should realize that we are all citizens of this world
We owe it to our children to use our powers positively
To help make this world a better and friendly place
So that we can create a just and compassionate society
Fighting wars just like before
Hate to think how many more
Hour by hour, dying for power
Digging graves and laying flowers
killing men again and again
That's the way its always been
I love someone for the influence I have.
I love playing where I employ my force.
I love judging to assert my power.
I defend and offend to stay afloat.
Each move one initiates to gain power.
02.02.2008
HAD I the power that have the will,
The enfeebled will - a modern curse -
This book of mine should blossom still
A perfect garden-ground of verse.
White placid marble gods should keep
Good watch in every shadowy lawn;
And from clean, easy-breathing sleep
The birds should waken me at dawn.
- A fairy garden; - none the less
Throughout these gracious paths of mine
All day there should be free access
For stricken hearts and lives that pine;
And by the folded lawns all day -
No idle gods for such a land -
All active Love should take its way
With active Labour hand in hand.
Jesus is coming to set all straight and you may have no time to wait.
For no one knows the day or hour when He’ll return in all His Power.
And every eye will see that day when all His power He does display.
The power He set aside for me when He chose to die upon that tree.
He had the power to save His life but He chose to be our sacrifice.
But unlike a sacrifice that lay dead, The Lord my friend rose again.
And in the view of many men, back up to Heaven Christ did ascend.
As they looked intently in the sky, they may have asked how and why.
Then two angels appeared on the way with the following words to say,
This same Jesus that did ascend is coming back the same way again.
From this you and I should learn we should be looking for His return.
To believers Christ sent His Power to teach about that awesome hour,
Although Christ died, He rose again, to become the Savior of all men.
The power He could have used was a power that He could not lose.
Jesus Christ set aside His Majesty, but as God, retained His Deity.
He will return in Total Majesty and again, every single eye will see.
Many on that day will perish refusing to embrace The Lord we cherish,
As Christ destroys the man of sin, with the brightness of His coming.
While men who wait in every nation, to them He brings His Salvation.
It may be today or tomorrow, so embrace Him now and have no sorrow.
(Copyright ©11/2004)
His Power bounded, greater is in might,
Than if let loose, 'twere wholly infinite.
He could have made an endless sea by this,
But then it had not been a sea of bliss.
Did waters from the centre to the skies
Ascend, 'twould drown whatever else we prize.
The ocean bounded in a finite shore,
Is better far because it is no more.
No use nor glory would in that be seen,
His power made it endless in esteem.
Had not the Sun been bounded in its sphere,
Did all the world in one fair flame appear,
And were that flame a real Infinite
'Twould yield no profit, splendor, nor delight.
Its corps confined, and beams extended be
Effects of Wisdom in the Deity.
One star made infinite would all exclude,
An earth made infinite could ne'er be viewed:
But one being fashioned for the other's sake,
He, bounding all, did all most useful make
And which is best, in profit and delight
Tho' not in bulk, they all are infinite.
U Fooled me
U Cheated on me
U let me go
U made me cry
U forced me to believe your lies
U tried to control me
U betrayed me
U did not love me
U never knew me
U never understood me
even you have never ever  tried
Finally, simply u left me
But now all I can say is
I love you
because this is something I have no power upon to
and I just cannot stop thinking about you
because this is not something I usually do
There cames a time
When you face the tougest of figths
Seaching for a light
I'm lost in the darkest of nights
The wind blows so cold
I'm standing alone
Befor the battles begun
But deep in my soul
The future unfolds
Is bight as the rays of the sun
You got to believe in the power of love
There's a light that falls from the heart
It's a chian reaction
There's nothing that will keep us apart
Stand by my side
There's nothing to hide
Together, we will fight to the end
Take hold of my hand
And you will understand
What means to be friends
You got to believe in the power of love
It's what hearts are mabe of
540
I took my Power in my Hand—
And went against the World—
'Twas not so much as David—had—
But I—was twice as bold—
I aimed by Pebble—but Myself
Was all the one that fell—
Was it Goliath—was too large—
Or was myself—too small?
Kisses upon kisses
Teases upon teases
Certain madness fills the air
It is termed as love I fear
Kisses upon kisses
Teases upon teases
Touches upon touches
My hearts broken pieces
Are once again at peace
Kisses upon kisses
Teases upon teases
Touches upon touches
Flattery upon Flattery
Love always sparkles without batteries
Lips upon lips
First a taste of your tongues tip
Admiration induces exploration
While love ignites imagination
I can feel your kissing power
And the sensational effect it showers
I can feel your kissing power
As you handle me like a delicate flower
Week legs
Pleasure begs
I can feel your kissing power
While you kiss me by the hour
Don't stop!
Be my hero not my flop!
Three or four repetitions
of a mental picture
of the location
as I walk toward a building
from a parking lot,
and I'll remember, later,
where I've parked my car.
It's taking considerably
longer to remember
where I've parked
my soul.
They've got a libdo and a desire
That can't be controled
They've got the power
To sex you in the shower and they always score
No one can ever keep these rangers down
The power of love sweet love is on their side
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Mighty Horny Power Rangers
They love to take their dates
Hard into their hands
They know to always use condoms and practice safe sex
No one can ever keep these rangers down
The power of love sweet love is on their side
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh you Mighty Horny Power Rangers
No one can ever keep these rangers down
The power of love sweet love is on their side
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh you Mighty Horny Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
Oh oh Power Rangers
They say her words were like balloons
with strings I could not hold,
that her love was something in a shop
cheap and far too quickly sold;
but the tree does not price its apples
nor the sun its selling power
the rain does not gossip
or speak of where it goes.
How the time passes by.
We are unable to arrest it.
How quick the people are leaving this world.
We are unable to prolong our existence on this land.
We therefore should not take it away
As we are approaching to the end of the twentieth century.
Many nations of this world are racing to build their armaments.
Why are they doing it?
To destroy this land with the people living on it.
Can we be proud having an atom bomb.
Those who have it are announcing to the world their power.
Without thinking of a mistake and dimensions of destruction.
How funds are melting away to build them and be tested.
These funds can be used for the hungry masses,
To feel them and fertilize our land to make it richer.
A multitude of people would be satisfied
They would be happy and enormously grateful
Maybe that day will come.
That we will together save the nature and masses of people.
The bomb once thrown carries only death and destruction
Everything would be reduced to ashes.
All living things would die, even trees.
To the ones alive a bird would not sing
Because of the nuclear experiments people are becoming poorer
Lets give some thought how to conquer that evil.
Lets look differently on nature and perceive its beauty.
This world is indeed charming,
India is a mysterious and curious country.
Is the atom bomb for them a paradise?
Among the other countries it brought indignation,
Is it worth to change your own country into hate?
Atom bond will not solve problems and feed people
Why not anybody is thinking about it,
Lets use the atom for peaceful purposes
Lets leave the decisions to the highly developed countries,
How to save the land from being fed with poison,
How to fertilize, so that the masses will not be hungry,
Also war, but not nuclear,
Must be proclaimed to the element of nature.
Not necessarily atom weapons for destruction.
It is being done with perfectionism by cataclysm,
That is the real enemy of people.
We must learn hot to strive to subdue it,
Then we will not be the perpetrators
Of exterminating this beautiful globe,
As is our MOTHER EARTH.
Bead-String in one hand and Book in another hand
Goddess Saraswathi sits on a White Lotus
Victoriously invoking art with her beautiful Veena
Eternally divine notes infinite
To grace the ardent one with knowledge to stand in this world
And have a permanent place in that world!
Sitting on a Pink Lotus Goddess Lakshmi shines bright
In all her glory wearing Ornaments of Gold and Diamonds
Gracing the suitably great persons with
Progress, prosperity and wealth;
Briefly, beautiful Sri Lakshmi symbolizes all
Wealth, comfort and jollity wherever she is present!
Goddess Sakti majestically sits on the Red Lotus with
A Trisul in one hand and a Tambourine in another hand
Ready to slay down the formidable foes,
Who act arrogantly against dharma in the world;
Also, without Sakthi no one can survive fighting
Courageously against adharma in the world!
So, Saraswathi is the source and for the development of
Knowledge for everyone in the world;
Lakshmi is the source and for the development of
Wealth for everyone in the world;
And Sakti is the source and for the development of
Power for everyone in the world!
Without knowledge creation of any kind
Cannot be good and great;
Without wealth protection of lives
Cannot last longer;
Without power destruction of evil
Cannot be perfectly complete!
To accomplish those aspects the Consorts of these Goddesses,
Brahma, Vishnu and Siva are there respectively
Looking after the duties of Creation, Protection and Destruction
Both in the world and in the Universe
In many Forms of Incarnations variously pointing out
The One All Pervading Great Power!
Four Vedas in the four hands of the four headed Brahma
Sits on a beautiful Lotus Flower,
Whose stem is connected to
The abdominal navel point of Lord Vishnu
Doing the duty of creation of Stars, planets
And living beings in the Universe!
Lord Vishnu reclining over the five headed Snake Bed
Comforted by the hand pressings of Lakshmi of His leg calves,
And surrounded by the Gods of Heaven ponders over
The ways to protect the Good against the Bad
Keeping ever ready in His hands weapons like
Chakra, Conch and Club to do His duty of protecting dharma!
Sitting on the highest Snow Mountain top
In a best possible yogic position
With a String of Beads, Holy Water Pot
And Trisul in His hands
Lord Siva coolly calculates each and everything
And performs His duty of destruction in time!
O Thou dread Power, who reign'st above,
I know thou wilt me hear,
When for this scene of peace and love
I make this prayer sincere.
The hoary Sire - the mortal stroke,
Long, long be pleas'd to spare;
To bless his little filial flock,
And show what good men are.
She, who her lovely offspring eyes
With tender hopes and fears,
O bless her with a mother's joys,
But spare a mother's tears!
Their hope, their stay, their darling youth,
In manhood's dawning blush,
Bless him, Thou God of love and truth,
Up to a parent's wish.
The seauteous, seraph sister-band -
With earnest tears I pray -
Thou know'st the snares on ev'ry hand,
Guide Thou their steps alway.
When, soon or late, they reach that coast,
O'er Life's rough ocean driven,
May they rejoice, no wand'rer lost,
A family in Heaven
A bad habit they form as a young girl or boy
To have power over others some people enjoy
With personal power some are not satisfied
Their desire for top job they don't try for to hide
They need more than personal power to be seen to succeed
It is all about money and all about greed
One might say they do have big egos to feed
The more money they have the more they seem to need
Power and money are siblings it does seem that way
And money speaks every language some are known to say
The non greedy and non power hungry people one has to admire
The lust for large sums of money or power over others they never desire
They are not the type for to put others down
Or wish to be known as the best in the town.
Power can tackle power,
Power can go deep in to the air.
And in the air, we find only fire.
Fire is there to inspire,
Air is there to take care.
It is a fact that human beings cannot live without money
People go to work everyday because of money
The more money we have the greater the influence
The more influence we have the greater the control
The more control we have the greater the power
Therefore with lots of money, we acquire power
We classify some people as rich, affluent and prosperous
This is because they have lots and lots of money
By the way - what is this power conferred by money?
In other words - how powerful is money?
Several people agree that money is everything
Lack of money can lead to divorce
Labour unions will go on strike for money
Political campaign is doomed without money
Businesses close down when they have no money
Consultants sell their services for money
Without money we cannot acquire any property
In some countries, access to superior medical services
Is not possible if you do not have lots of money
Also in a number of societies, the caliber of education
You can have depends on how wealthy your parents are
To have money power is to have authority
Oh! Money, what are we going to do without you?
Many believe that money talks everywhere
Whoever has more money makes the loudest noise
The power conferred by money turn few people
To be labeled as the movers and shakers
Does this mean that the poor have less power?
Take a closer look at the society in general
The answer is everywhere and in all places
Once in jungle a rat was very frightened by a cat
Somehow it escaped from the attack,
There the rat met a Saint and prayed
To be a large cat,
So, it was turned into a cat
And it began to kill rats,
But dogs often used to chase it,
Being unhappy it prayed to be a mighty dog,
So it was then turned into a big dog
And it began to torture the cats,
But tigers began to chase it
So, again it prayed to be a tiger,
Finally the Saint turned it into a tiger,
This tiger began to feel very mighty
That made it so proud of power,
Ill thoughts entered its brain heavily
It planned to attack and kill the Saint;
Some evidences made the Saint understand
Instantly he turned it into the pre-rat.
Power is love and strength
Showered on others at any length
Power is a woman
Standing delicately like a flower
Power is intelligence
Without pretence that is so intense
Power is knowledge
We all acknowledge
As politicians take the oath and pledge
Along comes the usual greed
With the desire to feed
On weaknesses with speed
So careful, take heed!
Before you dry up and bleed
Power knows no friends
Powers shows and sends
A message of uneven ends
Power is spoken words
When battles and wars are won
Without the need of the gun
Power is the human touch
That soothes the heart so much
While we observe, stand and watch
But on the whole
Power is control
Its one and only ultimate goal!
Looking into the distant future
something my stupid past didn’t see.
May the outcome of my experience
allow God to transform me
I Long to be alive
for within I was dead.
Darkness emptiness was my company
and each day I dread.
Walking with a long lost soul
Understanding nothing at hand
I once had a goal
my dreams turned to sand.
I seek the face of soothing comfort
to captivate my vast distressed mind.
I can’t give up on this beautiful life
Hope, I must find.
Thank God I found hope
In the midst of this eerie dark
Pursuing, struggling to find some light
until it penetrates right through my heart.'
Love, indeed thy strength is mighty
Thus, alone, such strife to bear --
Three 'gainst one, and never ceasing --
Death, and Madness, and Despair!
'Tis not my own strength has saved me;
Health, and hope, and fortitude,
But for love, had long since failed me;
Heart and soul had sunk subdued.
Often, in my wild impatience,
I have lost my trust in Heaven,
And my soul has tossed and struggled,
Like a vessel tempest-driven;
But the voice of my beloved
In my ear has seemed to say --
'O, be patient if thou lov'st me!'
And the storm has passed away.
When outworn with weary thinking,
Sight and thought were waxing dim,
And my mind began to wander,
And my brain began to swim,
Then those hands outstretched to save me
Seemed to call me back again --
Those dark eyes did so implore me
To resume my reason's reign,
That I could not but remember
How her hopes were fixed on me,
And, with one determined effort,
Rose, and shook my spirit free.
When hope leaves my weary spirit --
All the power to hold it gone --
That loved voice so loudly prays me,
'For my sake, keep hoping on,'
That, at once my strength renewing,
Though Despair had crushed me down,
I can burst his bonds asunder,
And defy his deadliest frown.
When, from nights of restless tossing,
Days of gloom and pining care,
Pain and weakness, still increasing,
Seem to whisper 'Death is near,'
And I almost bid him welcome,
Knowing he would bring release,
Weary of this restless struggle --
Longing to repose in peace,
Then a glance of fond reproval
Bids such selfish longings flee
And a voice of matchless music
Murmurs 'Cherish life for me!'
Roused to newborn strength and courage,
Pain and grief, I cast away,
Health and life, I keenly follow,
Mighty Death is held at bay.
Yes, my love, I will be patient!
Firm and bold my heart shall be:
Fear not -- though this life is dreary,
I can bear it well for thee.
Let our foes still rain upon me
Cruel wrongs and taunting scorn;
'Tis for thee their hate pursues me,
And for thee, it shall be borne!
A.E.
I drank and feasted on the table of love
They laughed, cried and shared
They stood in unity and cared
Behold a new baby was born
Into a world of love
Together the moved mountains
Together they frooze fountains
to build bridges of support
Behold I was mesmerised by its power
To which I was no unfamiliar stranger
Together the vigorously fought
for peace and freedom
Together they sang the song of
Love, love, love
The amount of energy in one space
I could not possibly put a finger on to trace
But it held the ultimate power to light up my face
There is nothing more powerful than
Love, love, love
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
I must love her more than she does,
The husband wants.
I must love him more than he does,
The wife wants.
This is power of love
I must hold her more than she does,
The husband intends.
I must hold him more than he does,
The wife intends.
This is love of power.
Power of love is breeze.
Love of power is storm
12.04.2008
In silence the flower buds gently bloom,
In silence they waft their sweet perfume.
In silence grows the blades of grass,
In silence I pen down my verse.
Speech is silver, silence gold,
Good deeds silently performed,
Is more eloquent than  words!
In silence lovers cuddle and sleep,
True love communicates through
oceans deep!
Look at the mountains towering so high,
Clouds kiss their tops and silently
float by!
In silence the monks move  their  prayer
beads,
In silence  they perform their charitable deeds.
In silence  the  sun  rises and shine,
In silence the moon beams softly  smiles.
In silence my God I invoke,
In silence rise my incense  smoke.
In silence my inner-self  unfolds,
In silent prayer my hands  I  fold.
In silence, with Him I communicate,
In silence I surrender to my fate.
In silence I beg Him to make me whole,
In silence to Him I surrender my soul!
In our noise polluted world, silence is
difficult to find,
But I know, one day, this Silence  shall be
mine!
Death be not proud
for you have no hold over my life,
Death be not proud
for I cannot die! !
Death be not proud
you instill no fear
Death be not proud
for my King lay down His life for me
Death be not proud
you have no power
you destroy just flesh and bone
you dont have the power to resurrect
Death be not proud
you own me not
for I have been bought
Death be not proud
for my soul shall live on,
In HIS Kingdom is where I belong! !
The lonliness of the night,
Is matched by the emptiness of my bed.
The emptiness of my heart,
Is equalled by the absence of hope.
The absence of a future,
Is akin to the depth of my need.
The depth of my memories,
Is beaten only by the heat of the Sun.
A Word is capable of anything
It is capable of changing enemies
into friends.
It is capable of penetrating
the impenetrable.
It is capable of changing the impossibility
into possibilities.
It is capable of uniting man and woman into
husband and wife.
It is capable of changing the Atheist into
Christian.
It is capable of changing illiterate into
professional.
It is capable of changing political crisis into
independence.
Beginning today let us not just utter words
but live by them, let your words be sweet and
caring to  all those around you.
Because we never know how far reaching
something we may think, say or do today
will affect the lives of millions tomorrow.
Written words are powerful
Able to influence and elicit change
More powerful yet are spoken words
Birthed in the mind, delivered through
Tongue, diaphragm and lungs
Working in concert to deliver voice
Intelligent vibrations creating reality
Somewhere an angry someone screams
“I hate you”
Words moving through space unhindered
Past countless stars in countless galaxies
Wreaking endless havoc on God’s Creation
Thinking with one's heart before speaking
Glorifies the positive power of words
Destruction ceases, balance restored
ROTMS
Power or no power
Tuesday, March 27,2018
6: 40 AM
Power or no power
Your words carry it further
Your image, in public eyes, gets it stronger
You become recognized and acceptable figure
You damage your own personality
And get nowhere to the reality
Your artificial leanings worsens the image
No one takes you seriously in terms of critical phase
The dynasty rule goes in your disfavor
Your public utterances don't earn you any favor
Your party line in terms of policy matters
Creates you as an unimpressive figure
To take help from like-minded parties is alright
But to cash on unholy lines makes your position not right
You are guided by people who are causing your fall
Create sagging image and no one responds to call
It is clear from your move
In any way, it will not improve your position
The party may gown further
You shall be seen nowhere
The regional parties have their own agenda
They have only one plea
Remove the B.J.P from power
They want to use you as cover
They have no intention to accept you as leader
It will get harder and harder
You shall be compelled to comprise
And accept their man as a leader with promises
The mighty sound of forests murmuring
In answer to the dread command;
The stars that shudder when their king
extends his hand,
His awful hand to bless, to curse; or moves
Toward the dimmest den
In the thick leaves, not known of loves
Or nymphs or men;
(Only the sylph's frail gossamer may wave
Their quiet frondage yet,
Only her dewy tears may lave
The violet;)
The mighty answer of the shaken sky
To his supreme behest; the call
Of Ibex that behold on high
Night's funeral,
And see the pale moon quiver and depart
Far beyond space, the sun ascend
And draw earth's globe unto his heart
To make an end;
The shriek of startled birds; the sobs that tear
With sudden terror the sharp sea
That slept, and wove its golden hair
Most mournfully;
The rending of the earth at his command
Who wields the wrath of heaven, and is dumb;
Hell starts up - and before his hand
Is overcome.
I heard these voices, and beheld afar
These dread works wrought at his behest:
And on his forehead, lo! a star,
And on his breast.
And on his feet I knew the sandals were
More beautiful than flame, and white,
And on the glory of his hair
The crown of night.
And I beheld his robe, and on its hem
Were writ unlawful words to say,
Broidered like lilies, with a gem
More clear than day.
And round him shone so wonderful a light
As when on Galilee
Jesus once walked, and clove the night,
And calmed the sea.
I scarce could see his features for the fire
That dwelt about his brow,
Yet, for the whiteness of my own desire,
I see him now;
Because my footsteps follow his, and tread
The awful bounds of heaven, and make
The very graves yield up their dead,
And high thrones shake;
Because my eyes still steadily behold
And dazzle not, nor shun the night,
The foam - born lamp of beaten gold
And secret might;
Because my forehead bears the sacred Name,
And my lips bear the brand
Of Him whose heaven is one flame,
Whose holy hand
Gathers this earth, who built the vaults of space,
Moulded the stars, and fixed the iron sea,
Because His love lights through my face
And all of me.
Because my hand may fasten on the sword
Of my heart falter not, and smite
Those lampless limits most abhorred
Of iron night,
And pass beyond their horror to attack
Fresh foemen, light and truth to bring
Through their untrodden fields of black,
A victor king.
I know all must be well, all must be free;
I know God as I know a friend;
I conquer, and most silently
Await the end.
The power of truth is in the belief
The power of love in the heart
The power of faith is felt in the mind
With every member of your being a part
Yet the power of change is hard to adjust
Because temptation is so hopelessly strong
While the power of right is substantially hard
You must overcome the power of wrong
But the power in you is much greater than all
In you, his power is born
So when the unfairness of life takes your power away
Remember to whom the power belongs...
To some power is guns
To some power is knifes
To some power is the ability to read, and write.
To some power is control
To some power is a fist
To some like Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. power was words.
To some power is like a trapped animal trying to get out of a cage.
To some power is love
To some power is art
To some power is money
To me power is knowledge
So what is power to you?
deceiver of nations,
controller of men,
destruction, destroyer,
command of all mankind,
demanding surrender-
bow to the feeling,
this lust for
control.
There is a power in taking
But more power in giving
There is a power in revenge
But more power in forgiving
There is a power in destroying
But more power in letting something live
There is a power in denying our true age
But more power in showing that we've lived.
Power! Power! ! Power! ! !
Madness;
Mankind on earth!
Wolves in Power,
Destroying the whole world,
With their evil acts.
Power! Power! ! Power! ! !
Dictators all around us,
Ruling around the World;
Secrets of these leaders,
Power! Power! ! Power! ! !
Ruling us on earth;
With secret meetings.
Far far away
Deep in space
To a sexy galaxy you will go
Power Rangers go
Power Rangers go
Power Rangers go
There lies a key to an anal affair and the condoms you must use
Ohhhhhh rangers!
Turn us on
Power Rangers Lust Galaxy
Turn us on
Power Rangers Lust Galaxy
Turn us on
Power Rangers Lust Galaxy
Oh Power Rangers.....
Lust (Lust)  Galaxy
Set tongues to wagging
Now sucking harder then ever before
Swallowed in space
Oh Power Rangers
Oh Power Rangers
Oh Power Rangers
Yes!
Yes!
Do it!
Oh Power Rangers
Oh Power Rangers
Oh Power Rangers
Swallowed in space
Oh Power Rangers
Oh Power Rangers
Oh Power Rangers
Swallowed in space
Where the world goes
Where the power goes
Power the great power
Makes the powered arrogant.
Power can make wonders
Ruling power so mighty
Where people are subjects
Submissive they try to achieve
Humans challenges the power
Absolute power of autocracy
Opts for people's power
where people's will triumphs
Emperors lost, kingdoms gone
Collective will beautiful ever
Collective power always nice
Power the great power
World goes with power and problems.
Remember him, whom Passion's power
Severely---deeply---vainly proved:
Remember thou that dangerous hour,
When neither fell, though both were loved.
That yielding breast, that melting eye,
Too much invited to be blessed:
That gentle prayer, that pleading sigh,
The wilder wish reproved, repressed.
Oh! let me feel that all I lost
But saved thee all that Conscience fears;
And blush for every pang it cost
To spare the vain remorse of years.
Yet think of this when many a tongue,
Whose busy accents whisper blame,
Would do the heart that loved thee wrong,
And brand a nearly blighted name.
Think that, whate'er to others, thou
Hast seen each selfish thought subdued:
I bless thy purer soul even now,
Even now, in midnight solitude.
Oh, God! that we had met in time,
Our hearts as fond, thy hand more free;
When thou hadst loved without a crime,
And I been less unworthy thee!
Far may thy days, as heretofore,
From this our gaudy world be past!
And that too bitter moment o'er,
Oh! may such trial be thy last.
This heart, alas! perverted long,
Itself destroyed might there destroy;
To meet thee in the glittering throng,
Would wake Presumption's hope of joy.
Then to the things whose bliss or woe,
Like mine, is wild and worthless all,
That world resign---such scenes forego,
Where those who feel must surely fall.
Thy youth, thy charms, thy tenderness---
Thy soul from long seclusion pure;
From what even here hath passed, may guess
What there thy bosom must endure.
Oh! pardon that imploring tear,
Since not by Virtue shed in vain,
My frenzy drew from eyes so dear;
For me they shall not weep again.
Though long and mournful must it be,
The thought that we no more may meet;
Yet I deserve the stern decree,
And almost deem the sentence sweet.
Still---had I loved thee less---my heart
Had then less sacrificed to thine;
It felt not half so much to part
As if its guilt had made thee mine.
O thou, my lovely boy, who in thy power
Dost hold Time's fickle glass his fickle hour;
Who hast by waning grown, and therein show'st
Thy lovers withering, as thy sweet self grow'st.
If Nature, sovereign mistress over wrack,
As thou goest onwards, still will pluck thee back,
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
May Time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Yet fear her, O thou minion of her pleasure!
She may detain, but not still keep her treasure.
Her audit, though delayed, answered must be,
And her quietus is to render thee.
O, from what power hast thou this powerful might
With insufficiency my heart to sway?
To make me give the lie to my true sight,
And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
Whence hast thou this becoming of things ill,
That in the very refuse of thy deeds
There is such strength and warrantise of skill
That, in my mind, thy worst all best exceeds?
Who taught thee how to make me love thee more,
The more I hear and see just cause of hate?
O, though I love what others do abhor,
With others thou shouldst not abhor my state.
If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
More worthy I to be beloved of thee.
XXXIX
Because thou hast the power and own'st the grace
To look through and behind this mask of me
(Against which years have beat thus blanchingly
With their rains), and behold my soul's true face,
The dim and weary witness of life's race,—
Because thou hast the faith and love to see,
Through that same soul's distracting lethargy,
The patient angel waiting for a place
In the new Heavens,—because nor sin nor woe,
Nor God's infliction, nor death's neighborhood,
Nor all which others viewing, turn to go,
Nor all which makes me tired of all, self-viewed,—
Nothing repels thee, . . . Dearest, teach me so
To pour out gratitude, as thou dost, good!
They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing, they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmovèd, cold, and to temptation slow,
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
And husband nature's riches from expense;
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others, but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
Though to itself, it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity.
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.
How change of chairs makes human beings queer!
That power corrupts minds is truly true;
No lion can ever become a deer;
Nor can any elephant like cows moo.
How men in power behave so different!
Power alone cannot command respect;
How men settle old scores with mind so bent!
The Power-Bug can any man infect.
And very soon misuse of power begins,
The man his doom in much unconceived of ways;
Unless level-headed, be they earthlings,
Prematurely, ill-fated end their days.
The humble man in power stays for long,
Desisting all his life from doing wrong.
They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces
And husband nature's riches from expense;
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet
Though to itself it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.
They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces
And husband nature's riches from expense;
They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet
Though to itself it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.
Because thou hast the power and own'st the grace
To look through and behind this mask of me
(Against which years have beat thus blanchingly
With their rains), and behold my soul's true face,
The dim and weary witness of life's race,
Because thou hast the faith and love to see,
Through that same soul's distracting lethargy,
The patient angel waiting for a place
In the new Heavens,--because nor sin nor woe,
Nor God's infliction, nor death's neighbourhood,
Nor all which others viewing, turn to go,
Nor all of which makes me tired of all, self-viewed,--
Nothing repels thee,...Dearest, teach me so
To pour out gratitude, as thou dost, good!
Each man on Earth who strives for good
And seeks to bless the neighbourhood
Should ask himself what gifts he owns
To fight the evil crime condones!
Yet what of you who walks, runs, flies,
With spinning webs to cross the skies,
With strength and even prophecy?
Show great responsibility!
Split-second moves can save a life,
Thus bring peace to what was strife,
Defeating death before it laughs
And thus preventing epitaphs...
Inaction leads to utter loss -
A headstone and a tragic cross!
To overcome such infamy
Show great responsibility!
When greatness comes, it turns the mind -
Perhaps to benefit Mankind...
Perhaps to compensate your pains
Yet conscience blesses and restrains.
Therefore it's best to hear the call
Though it may drive you up the wall!
Don't think it's random destiny!
Show great responsibility!
So Peter Parker persevere -
Despite your doubt, despite your fear...
Despite your hate, despite your love...
Despite your thoughts, just rise above...
Tenacity is needed now -
Not posing for some gracious bow...
Superhero, do all you can
To honour the name of Spider-Man!
To have the right to dream
and to follow it each day
until some tiny part of it
is you in every way
gives zest to all of living
and lets you dream some more
'til at last you are near heaven's gate
as your thoughts lift up and soar.
This, then, the freedom that I seek
for you and all mankind
the spark of real achievement
capturing heart and soul and mind.
To strike off lingering chains of doubt
look out on a new day
where freedom holds you to a task
that asks your best in every way.
When you look at your life
With your trophy wife
Do you feel fulfilled?
In your comfort zone
Are you bored to the bone?
Has your spirit been killed?
Do you dance in the rain?
Do you feel the pain
That makes you know you're alive?
All things work to a plan
You're a corporate man
For wealth and power you strive.
Your materialist god
Has an iron ruling rod
No room for free thought.
In the Brave New World
Your flag is unfurled
Your status you've bought.
All the things that you've promised
Have you really been honest?
People's lives are your tools.
And when you are wrong
You then sing a new song
I think 'Who are the fools? '
Have you ever been loved?
Is your handshake steel gloved?
Can you really unwind?
Have you drank to excess?
Is your true happiness
In your business like mind?
A blip in the market
Turns your mood very dark, it
Puts your nose out of joint.
Who do you want to be?
All the best things are free
You're missing the point.
The lust for power and money to corruption lead
And some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed
And big Corporations do not have a soul
The avarice that afflicts them their thinking control.
The distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair
And thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire
Oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day
Whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay.
To be born of poor parents is their only crime
And they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime
In refugee camps they are forced to reside
In a Land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed.
'Tis true power can be a corruptible thing
Of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing
Why laud people who have far more than enough
When millions are homeless and have to sleep rough.
The lust for power seems to be thriving of late
And only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate
Whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair
In a World where empathy and compassion are rare.
The lust for power is an addiction the Government their own praises do sing
And rubbish their main opposition as to Government they try to cling
The voters bombarded with propaganda right up until election day
The true fact of all politicians is they seldom do mean what they say
The winners take all of the glory and the winners they do celebrate
The prize it is great and worth lying for that's how they feel those who wish to rule the State
The lust for power is an addiction and not a harmless addiction 'twould seem
Without such power some people feel worthless and suffer of low self esteem
Some people become so power hungry that power to their egos is fuel
They feel it is their right to Govern that they have been born to rule
The Opposition as bad as the Government they too want power in the worst way
Any respect to their political opponents they have no desire for to pay
It is all about power and their egos power to them is the best thing of all
Their pride to them is all that matter though pride it can come before a fall.
Beyond that plant you may see the shanties in a row without the electricity
And the poor parents read pamphlets of family planning under the moonlight
While they think of their multiplying children.
The little power we have to others we give away
They rule our lives for us we go by what they say
The media they control and only lies from them we hear
They warn of terrorists and terrorism and fill our hearts with fear
Of people we do not know or may never even meet
They even have us looking out for terrorists as we walk down the street
Each stranger that we meet we look on with mistrust
Though they may be kind of heart and they may be good and just.
They are our enemy yet we see them as a friend
For their Political survival on our fears they do depend
And those we see as our enemy their leaders are the same
They instill in them a fear of us they too play the Political power game.
We are ruled by self centred men and us they do deceive
When they tell us who to fear them we want to believe
They create us and they and to conquer they divide
And tell us with a smirk we have God on our side.
To lie to cling to power to them is not a sin
Some call it propaganda and others call it spin
And when our so called enemy civilians die in a bombing raid collateral damage is what they say
Is it right that loss of Human life be dismissed in such a way?
The little power we have to ourselves we never keep
To the power hungry we give it away we value it as cheap
They lubricate our fears to insure they cling to power
In a garden full of noxious weeds you may not find a flower.
Litter of puppies
Glitters the garden.
Slither and snuggled
The warm protective body.
Sucking in, the warm nector
Oozing out, just for them.
Eyes were still shut
Could see and sense
The air of comfort.
Somehow, knew – The Predators
Are not to be worried
Mother’s eye was always on them
No matter where they withered.
Growing up with
The Power of A Mother!
08/04/08
Connected to God, in tune with nature,
heartfelt passions spoken in a line.
What better place to find serenity
than in the prayer of a poet online.
Gathered in unity, divided in style;
souls searching for perfect peace
touching lives by a timely rhyme
giving solace and pain's release.
Seeking an emissary to heaven's throne?
To whisper entreaties to Angels there;
No better place to reach God's ear
than through the power of a poet's prayer.
The power of Armies is a visible thing,
Formal, and circumscribed in time and space;
But who the limits of that power shall trace
Which a brave People into light can bring
Or hide, at will,--for freedom combating
By just revenge inflamed? No foot may chase,
No eye can follow, to a fatal place
That power, that spirit, whether on the wing
Like the strong wind, or sleeping like the wind
Within its awful caves.--From year to year
Springs this indigenous produce far and near;
No craft this subtle element can bind,
Rising like water from the soil, to find
In every nook a lip that it may cheer.
Not human art, but living gods alone
Can fashion beauties that by changing live,--
Her buds to spring, his fruits to autumn give,
To earth her fountains in her heart of stone;
But these in their begetting are o'erthrown,
Nor may the sentenced minutes find reprieve;
And summer in the blush of joy must grieve
To shed his flaunting crown of petals blown.
We to our works may not impart our breath,
Nor them with shifting light of life array;
We show but what one happy moment saith;
Yet may our hands immortalize the day
When life was sweet, and save from utter death
The sacred past that should not pass away.
Pain is the feeling you endure when you are alone,
It is great torture when you have no friends at all
Pain is the feeling you endure when you break a bone,
You endure great humiliation and pain when you slip and fall
However, you possess the spirit to get back on your feet,
Even if the path in front of you becomes too rough
There will be friends along the path that you will meet,
That will help make you become strong and tough
Also, they will help cure you when you are sick,
They will be friends with you through thick and thin
And they will never think about playing a mean joke nor trick,
Your friends will be as close to you as your own kin
Now I know I cannot quit during the fight,
Because I know my friends will help me see the light.
Cruel friend
Trust built on lies
Holding on to the wound
That will never heal
Beyond repair
Upon the betrayal of a friend.
I only have the strength
For one last word;
Good-bye
Good-bye to sleepless nights
Helplessness in your arms
To a lifetime of your dreams
Power of your screams
There is no strength left in me to fight
Pick your battles
Because you already lost this one
How can I be your friend?
When all that’s left is the strength to say
Good-bye.
The power of ideas are immeasurable
They are the hidden treasures which lies
Deep within each and everyone of us
When we take the time to mind them we will find
That they are more precious than diamonds
Ideas which may seem insignificant
Has tremendous power within them
They are the genesis the initiation the foundation
Of all invention and everything which
Is created by humankind
The power of ideas are immeasurable
They have got the power to move mountains
To overcome any obstacle and to make
The seemingly impossible possible
Ideas are the levers which moves and the axis
On which the world revolves
The power of ideas are immeasurable
The power of ideas...
Love lives and gives itself to us all!
Love lives and gives itself to us all!
Teaching us what to do!
Helping us every hour!
Yes, that's through the power, the power of love!
Love grows and throws itself to the wind!
Love grows and throws itself to the wind!
Then it heads for your mind!
Then it aims for your heart!
Yes, that's just the start, the start of love!
Love glides and slides itself in your soul!
Love glides and slides itself in your soul!
That's how it fills your dreams!
That's how it makes you strong!
So welcome the song, the song of love!
Love cares and shares itself with the world!
Love cares and shares itself with the world!
That's why it fills your thoughts -
Seeking some sacrifice!
Yes, that's called the price, the price of love!
Love lives and gives itself to us all!
Love lives and gives itself to us all!
Teaching us what to do!
Helping us every hour!
Yes, that's through the power, the power of love!
Teaching us what to do!
Helping us every hour!
Yes, that's through the power, the power of love!
Inside a tree a squirrel sat,
he was well-nourished, even fat.
He spotted then the owl who, wise,
was sought out by the forest's guys
if information was the need.
And of all critters owls, indeed
do have a comprehensive brain
(it is the reason they are vain) .
The squirrel asked about the snow, '
the weight of flakes he aimed to know.
'Each snowflake' said the owl 'weighs naught,
that's what experience has taught.'
The squirrel, who would sit for hours
to sharpen observation powers:
'Howcould this be my learned friend,
snow must weigh something, in the end?
Last winter, as I watched it snow,
the ground came closer from below
and as I sat here in the tree
I was positioned thus to see
how more and more the snow would rise
to white and pretty looking highs.
Each branch received a goodly portion
and some would bend into distortion.
The weight of sixteen million flakes
is, from my view, just what it takes
to snap my perch like some thin twig,
so tell me wise owl, with a wig
what made it break if snow weighs nil!
Kindly explain this if you will.'
'yes, it can be' the owl proclaimed,
her words were with intention aimed
at all the critters.'Now and then
and once a year, and then again,
a bit of nothing will suffice
to crush a solid block of ice,
or fell a tree of strapping strength
and cut in half the height and length
of things that live with us each day.
It is a price they have to pay.'
'A bit of nothing thus can cause
the overturning of great laws,
of physics, chemistry and maths,
of Bunsen burners, acid baths.
There is no use to whine and fret,
it's what you get. It's what you get.'
One song can spark a moment,
One whisper can wake the dream.
One tree can start a forest,
One bird can herald spring.
One smile begins a friendship,
One moment can make one fall in luv.
One star can guide a ship at sea,
One word can frame the goal
One vote can change a nation,
One sunbeam lights a room
One candle wipes out darkness,
One laugh will conquer gloom.
One step must start each journey.
One word must start each prayer.
One hope will raise our spirits,
One touch can show you care.
One voice can speak with wisdom,
One heart can know what's true,
One life can make a difference,
You see, it's up to you!
One second might not tell
When held against an hour
One hour might not count
When weighed against a day
One day may not matter
When considering a life
One word may mean little
From the conversation whole
One line may not be missed
When stricken from the book
One thought may be dismissed
In comprehension of the mind
One flaw might be overlooked
When evaluating character
One mistake means little
When summing up a man
One sin may be forgiven
In the judgement of a soul
So how is it a single glance
Can make one wither so?
You pray a lot and take pride
That your prayers are granted
And you pray some more
Like a monk like a priest,
Sometimes I think about
Prayerful dogs, what if their
Prayers are granted too
Bones and more bones
Would surely rain from
The heavenly skies.
Oh yes, I pray, but if my
Prayers are not granted,
I still know that God loves me
He thinks my wants are not the best
For me, and he reserves the rest.
That really suits me best.
or, The First Steamboat up the Alabama.
You, Dinah!  Come and set me whar de ribber-roads does meet.
De Lord, HE made dese black-jack roots to twis' into a seat.
Umph, dar!  De Lord have mussy on dis blin' ole nigger's feet.
It 'pear to me dis mornin' I kin smell de fust o' June.
I 'clar', I b'lieve dat mockin'-bird could play de fiddle soon!
Dem yonder town-bells sounds like dey was ringin' in de moon.
Well, ef dis nigger IS been blind for fo'ty year or mo',
Dese ears, DEY sees the world, like, th'u' de cracks dat's in de do'.
For de Lord has built dis body wid de windows 'hind and 'fo'.
I know my front ones IS stopped up, and things is sort o' dim,
But den, th'u' DEM, temptation's rain won't leak in on ole Jim!
De back ones show me earth enough, aldo' dey's mons'ous slim.
And as for Hebben, -- bless de Lord, and praise His holy name --
DAT shines in all de co'ners of dis cabin jes' de same
As ef dat cabin hadn't nar' a plank upon de frame!
Who CALL me?  Listen down de ribber, Dinah!  Don't you hyar
Somebody holl'in' "Hoo, Jim, hoo?"  My Sarah died las' y'ar;
IS dat black angel done come back to call ole Jim f'om hyar?
My stars, dat cain't be Sarah, shuh!  Jes' listen, Dinah, NOW!
What KIN be comin' up dat bend, a-makin' sich a row?
Fus' bellerin' like a pawin' bull, den squealin' like a sow?
De Lord 'a' mussy sakes alive, jes' hear, -- ker-woof, ker-woof --
De Debble's comin' round dat bend, he's comin' shuh enuff,
A-splashin' up de water wid his tail and wid his hoof!
I'se pow'ful skeered; but neversomeless I ain't gwine run away:
I'm gwine to stand stiff-legged for de Lord dis blessed day.
YOU screech, and swish de water, Satan!  I'se a gwine to pray.
O hebbenly Marster, what thou willest, dat mus' be jes' so,
And ef Thou hast bespoke de word, some nigger's bound to go.
Den, Lord, please take ole Jim, and lef young Dinah hyar below!
'Scuse Dinah, 'scuse her, Marster; for she's sich a little chile,
She hardly jes' begin to scramble up de homeyard stile,
But dis ole traveller's feet been tired dis many a many a mile.
I'se wufless as de rotten pole of las' year's fodder-stack.
De rheumatiz done bit my bones; you hear 'em crack and crack?
I cain'st sit down 'dout gruntin' like 'twas breakin' o' my back.
What use de wheel, when hub and spokes is warped and split, and rotten?
What use dis dried-up cotton-stalk, when Life done picked my cotton?
I'se like a word dat somebody said, and den done been forgotten.
But, Dinah!  Shuh dat gal jes' like dis little hick'ry tree,
De sap's jes' risin in her; she do grow owdaciouslee --
Lord, ef you's clarin' de underbrush, don't cut her down, cut me!
I would not proud persume -- but I'll boldly make reques';
Sence Jacob had dat wrastlin'-match, I, too, gwine do my bes';
When Jacob got all underholt, de Lord he answered Yes!
And what for waste de vittles, now, and th'ow away de bread,
Jes' for to strength dese idle hands to scratch dis ole bald head?
T'ink of de 'conomy, Marster, ef dis ole Jim was dead!
Stop; -- ef I don't believe de Debble's gone on up de stream!
Jes' now he squealed down dar; -- hush; dat's a mighty weakly scream!
Yas, sir, he's gone, he's gone; -- he snort way off, like in a dream!
O glory hallelujah to de Lord dat reigns on high!
De Debble's fai'ly skeered to def, he done gone flyin' by;
I know'd he couldn' stand dat pra'r, I felt my Marster nigh!
You, Dinah; ain't you 'shamed, now, dat you didn' trust to grace?
I heerd you thrashin' th'u' de bushes when he showed his face!
You fool, you think de Debble couldn't beat YOU in a race?
I tell you, Dinah, jes' as shuh as you is standin' dar,
When folks starts prayin', answer-angels drops down th'u' de a'r.
YAS, DINAH, WHAR 'OULD YOU BE NOW, JES' 'CEPTIN' FUR DAT PRA'R?
The old man had been channeling Albert for days
He had managed to make contact with him
while taking his morning constitution in the back
behind his custom built plywood paneled trailer
His wife's (actually his cousin's)  garden was doing extremely well
The sweet corn was high and the beans were really coming in...
The old guy had been unable to sleep for weeks up till then
This one burning question kept eating at his psychic
and the old man thought only an Einstein would know
If when in a person's life there is a spiritual void
Will Evil then be all which can fill his heart?
Or was there power enough in prayer to save him?
The answer came as a shocker....
When Albert who had taken the liberty of enlisting some help
from six of the twelve Apostles...
Spoke to him late last night....The old man was
taking a piss on the rhubarb and collard greens
He claims it keeps the varmints from eating them greens
'Old man' the voices of the combined seven called....
Bartholomew acting as spokesperson for the group....
Said....
'Two protons stuck together have less mass than two single separate protons'
Perplexed the old guy scratched his head with his free hand and asked,
'What does this mean to me?
To which there was only the sound of dead silence
and that of his stream hitting the broad leaf of the rhubarb....
2007 © T Sheridan
The foaming stream from out the rock
With thunder roar begins to rush,--
The oak falls prostrate at the shock,
And mountain-wrecks attend the gush.
With rapturous awe, in wonder lost,
The wanderer hearkens to the sound;
From cliff to cliff he hears it tossed,
Yet knows not whither it is bound:
'Tis thus that song's bright waters pour
From sources never known before.
In union with those dreaded ones
That spin life's thread all-silently,
Who can resist the singer's tones?
Who from his magic set him free?
With wand like that the gods bestow,
He guides the heaving bosom's chords,
He steeps it in the realms below,
He bears it, wondering, heavenward,
And rocks it, 'twixt the grave and gay,
On feeling's scales that trembling sway.
As when before the startled eyes
Of some glad throng, mysteriously,
With giant-step, in spirit-guise,
Appears a wondrous deity,
Then bows each greatness of the earth
Before the stranger heaven-born,
Mute are the thoughtless sounds of mirth,
While from each face the mask is torn,
And from the truth's triumphant might
Each work of falsehood takes to flight.
So from each idle burden free,
When summoned by the voice of song,
Man soars to spirit-dignity,
Receiving force divinely strong:
Among the gods is now his home,
Naught earthly ventures to approach--
All other powers must now be dumb,
No fate can on his realms encroach;
Care's gloomy wrinkles disappear,
Whilst music's charms still linger here,
As after long and hopeless yearning,
And separation's bitter smart,
A child, with tears repentant burning,
Clings fondly to his mother's heart--
So to his youthful happy dwelling,
To rapture pure and free from stain,
All strange and false conceits expelling,
Song guides the wanderer back again,
In faithful Nature's loving arm,
From chilling precepts to grow warm.
When a tiny melody catches your breath
And wonderful lyrics impound your brain
The clarity of a voice stirs your heart
You know you've finally come home
A climbing spirit bursts through the clouds
Sharing emotions without constraint
Turning the key that opens the chambers
Making you believe again
The combination touches your soul
You feel, you explode, you're soaring high
How does this wonderful journey
Affect you so, make you live?
A rare gift stirs the senses so absolutely
A beautiful breeze to make you fly
This my friends is how it feels
It always amazes me, this ride
It was a special time indeed, when Christ chose to died upon a tree,
For He didn't die because of a crime, but He died for you and me.
On the morning before He died, as the garden was quiet and still,
He chose to do a work of Love and follow His Father's will.
He told the Disciples to wait and watch as he went away to pray,
But when He returned, He found them all asleep, much to His dismay.
He then went back to pray to The Father, not once but two more times,
Although He wanted the cup to pass he said Father your will not mine.
Filled with anguish He continued to pray to The One in whom He loved,
In so much pain as He prayed, His sweat fell to the ground like blood.
When He returned to the disciples, it was no surprise to The Lord,
As they saw Judas leading a crowd, with each man lifting a sword.
He was arrested that day, for you and I, and lead off to face a trial
While the Apostle who said that he never would, went into denial.
In their grief instead of holding fast to the Only One that mattered,
As The Scriptures clearly stated, the rest of the disciples scattered.
After they regathered, but filled with grief, much to their surprise,
As it was clearly taught by the prophets, The Lord truly did arise.
And as they understood that day, Christ's Resurrection set them free,
Today that same power is available to you, if you only would believe.
(Copyright © 03/2002)
There is sorrow enough in the natural way
From men and women to fill our day;
And when we are certain of sorrow in store,
Why do we always arrange for more?
Brothers and Sisters, I bid you beware
Of giving your heart to a dog to tear.
Buy a pup and your money will buy
Love unflinching that cannot lie--
Perfect passion and worship fed
By a kick in the ribs or a pat on the head.
Nevertheless it is hardly fair
To risk your heart for a dog to tear.
When the fourteen years which Nature permits
Are closing in asthma, or tumour, or fits,
And the vet's unspoken prescription runs
To lethal chambers or loaded guns,
Then you will find--it's your own affair--
But...you've given your heart for a dog to tear.
When the body that lived at your single will,
With its whimper of welcome, is stilled (how still!);
When the spirit that answered your every mood
Is gone--wherever it goes--for good,
You will discover how much you care,
And will give your heart for the dog to tear.
We've sorrow enough in the natural way,
When it comes to burying Christian clay.
Our loves are not given, but only lent,
At compound interest of cent per cent.
Though it is not always the case, I believe,
That the longer we've kept 'em, the more do we grieve:
For, when debts are payable, right or wrong,
A short-time loan is as bad as a long--
So why in Heaven (before we are there)
Should we give our hearts to a dog to tear?
Mighty art thou, because of the peaceful charms of thy presence;
That which the silent does not, never the boastful can do.
Vigor in man I expect, the law in its honors maintaining,
But, through the graces alone, woman e'er rules or should rule.
Many, indeed, have ruled through the might of the spirit and action,
But then thou noblest of crowns, they were deficient in thee.
No real queen exists but the womanly beauty of woman;
Where it appears, it must rule; ruling because it appears!
'Tis a strange mystery, the power of words!
Life is in them, and death. A word can send
The crimson colour hurrying to the cheek.
Hurrying with many meanings; or can turn
The current cold and deadly to the heart.
Anger and fear are in them; grief and joy
Are on their sound; yet slight, impalpable:--
A word is but a breath of passing air.
464
The power to be true to You,
Until upon my face
The Judgment push his Picture—
Presumptuous of Your Place—
Of This—Could Man deprive Me—
Himself—the Heaven excel—
Whose invitation—Yours reduced
Until it showed too small—
The power u think u have ova me,
is not as strong as u think
I jus let u think dat bcuz I love u.....
The power u think u have ova me,
is not as strong as u think
I jus let u do what do cuz it feels good to me......
The power u think u have ova me,
is not as strong as u think,
I jus let touch me cuz ur touching on me.....
The power u think u have ova me,
is not as strong as u think,
I jus kiss on u to see how u feel about me.....
The power u think u have ova me,
is not as strong as u think,
I jus stayed throw the pain, cuz I thought u loved me....
but u didin't.....Now its............
The power u thought u had ova me,
is nolonger there its gon like me,
lived it, loved it, losted it....
'Tis sad to think that many with power abuse it those with power who abuse it weak not strong
There is nothing wrong with having power in the first place it is the abuse of it that is all wrong
For the abuse of power leads to serious crimes against the powerless though power in good hands it is quite okay
And good people with power never do abuse it they use it in the most constructive way
Some people with power are quite benign people and philanthropic one of them can say
But those who abuse their power to the law may never answer though to karma there's a price they have to pay
The abuse of power leads to dictatorial regimes that leads to serious crimes against humanity
In the despicable crimes against women and children the wrongs of power gone wrong for all to see
The people who abuse their power should never have it though to their power they desperately do cling
Power in the right hands an adavantage to others and power in the wrong hands is a dangerous thing
There is nothing wrong with power from once 'tis used well but some with power they do abuse their rule
And some with power they can become quite nasty and derive pleasure out of being cruel
But power in the right hands can be a blessing and kind people with power their praise we ought sing
Since they have the gift of empathy within them and happiness to others they do bring.
You have heard of the wonderful one-hoss shay
That was built in such a logical way
It ran a hundred years to a day.
And then, of a sudden, it up and bust,
And all that was left was a mound of dust?
Holmes -- O. W. -- told it well
In a rhyme of his -- what there was to tell --
But the one-hoss shay wasn't "one, two, three"
With a vehicle once belonged to me.
One hoss? No, sir! Not six nor nine --
Twenty there were in this rig of mine!
Twenty hosses as tough as rocks,
All caged up in a sort of box
That stood jist back of the forward wheels!
Right! She was one of those automobiles
With twenty hosses bottled inside -
Hosses that not only pull but ride!
Wonder what Holmes would have had to say
If the mare had rode in his one-hoss shay!
I reckon the shay would have logicked out
Before the century rolled about.
Well, this big touring car, I say,
Was built just like the one-hoss shay --
Some dependable, logical way --
Flipflaps, dujabs, wheels and things,
Levers, thing-gum-bobs and springs,
Hub, and felloe, and hoss-power chest --
One part just as strong as the rest;
So "logic is logic," as Holmes would say,
And no one part could first give way.
Wonderful vehicle, you'll admit,
With not one flaw in the whole of it;
As long as I had it, I declare
I hadn't one cent to pay for repair,
It couldn't break down because, you see,
It was such a logical symphony.
Now for my tale. We're not so slow
These days as a hundred years ago,
And it's like enough that the one-hoss shay,
Ambling along in its sleepy way,
Should creep a century 'thout a break,
But nowadays we aim to make
A pace that is something like a pace,
And if that old shay got in our race
It would stand the pressure twenty days
And go to the home of played-out shays.
"Logic is logic." Just figure this out --
For I know just what I'm talking about: --
If a one-hoss vehicle, genus shays,
Will stand our pressure twenty days,
Then, vice versa, a twenty-hoss shay
Should stand the pressure just one day; --
Well, mine is a logical automobile,
From rubber tire to steering wheel.
I bought it one morning at just 10.42,
And the very next morning what did it do,
Right on the second, but up and bust!
Talk of the old shay's pile of dust --
That's not logical; my mobile
Vanished completely! Brass and steel,
Iron and wood and rubber tire
Went right up in a gush of fire,
And in half a minute a gassy smell
Was all I had left by which to tell
I ever owned a touring car, --
And then that vanished, and there you are!
End of my twenty hoss-power shay.
Logic is logic. That's all I say.
Submitted by John Martin
677
To be alive—is Power—
Existence—in itself—
Without a further function—
Omnipotence—Enough—
To be alive—and Will!
'Tis able as a God—
The Maker—of Ourselves—be what—
Such being Finitude!
To have power over others is something one does not need
For tis only by good example that one can ever lead
And many with power over others their power they do abuse
And for those who abuse others there cannot be an excuse.
If you wish to be a leader some sort of form of power you crave
And what it takes to be a great leader is to be understanding kind and brave
But leaders with such qualities to say the least seem rare
To some very ordinary people they do favourably compare.
For to have power over others a good person does not desire
And many power hungry people are those we should not admire
Power over others and personal power are different from night and day
We all do need some personal power for to serve survival's way.
To have power over others is something one can do without
And on those who desire such powers one has to cast some doubt
They seem to be control freaks with darkness of the soul
The lives of other people they do need to control.
The Power of Love
- Sense it
- Feel it
- Show it
- See it
- Touch it
- Hear it
From them only negative stuff we do hear
They tell us who to trust and tell us who to fear
We want to believe the lies to us they tell
They promise Utopia and give us Earthly Hell.
We want to believe every word that they say
And for to cling to power they create us and they
We help to create our own reality
The blind in the light of day never do see.
Their pre election promises they never do keep
We give them our power and we follow like sheep
They tell us who to fear and them we believe
And they laugh behind our backs and us they deceive.
Through false patriotism to power they do cling
And the praises of war heroes they gladly do sing
They cling on to power and they cheat and they lie
Whilst in the wars they created the innocents die.
V-8 engines pushing tin
Up and down to run and win
Circled race yet powers in
Belt and shaft in 2-d spin
Fins of fans are ran to pound
Wind with fin to spin around
Blowing gusts at me I found
2-d borders power bound
Atoms bound to different blight
Breaking in from left to right
Up and down from any sight
Front to back the powers fight
This would seem to beam the way
How power rolls in wild stray
So why do we confine its day
To running in this 2-d way?
Sexism • Ageism
Religious intolerance • Xenophobia
Ableism • Adultism • Biphobia • Classism
Elitism • Ephebiphobia • Gerontophobia
Heightism • Heterosexism • Homophobia
Lesbophobia • Lookism • Misandry
Misogyny • Pediaphobia • Sizeism
Transphobia
Slavery • Racial profiling • Lynching
Hate speech • Hate crime
Genocide (examples)  • Ethnocide
Ethnic cleansing • Pogrom • Race war
Religious persecution • Gay bashing
Blood libel • Paternalism
Police brutality
Race / Religion / Sex segregation
Apartheid • Redlining • Internment
Bigotry • Prejudice • Supremacism
Intolerance • Tolerance • Diversity
Multiculturalism • Oppression
Political correctness
Reverse discrimination • Eugenics
Racialism •
An index of Remedies
Emancipation • Civil rights
Desegregation • Integration
Equal opportunity
Affirmative action • Racial quota
Reservation (India)  • Reparation
Forced busing
Employment equity (Canada)
Anti-miscegenation • Anti-immigration
Alien and Sedition Acts • Jim Crow laws
Black codes • Apartheid laws
Ketuanan Melayu • Nuremberg Laws
Anti-discrimination acts
Anti-discrimination law
14th Amendment • Crime of apartheid
Adultcentrism • Gynocentrism
Androcentrism • Economic
We are one big family of Humanity...
Do you have the index of Humanity?
I was in my office one day
And an old black truck driver came my way
As we were talking a ganster walked in
Cussing all the white men
The old black man looked at him
He said boy where have you been
I was born in racial segragation
Whipped day in and day out
You do not know what your talking about
I am tired of you so called gansters
Crying about racism
You were never put in a cage like a hamster
You get scholarships
Business loans
Affirmitive action
Cars and cell phones
I had to work my tail off to earn the things I have
You just cry racism and they give in to your lies while you laugh
I forgave the white people along time ago
They were fools that needed to know
What wrong was done
Now they try making amends
And we in turn reversed the racism
Become a real man
Watch over your family
Work hard and honestly
Earn your keep
God will make you reap
Forgive the past
Help make the future last
Love your brothers and sisters
Respect your elders
End the hatred you did not earn
The hatred that I once scorned
Because hatred will eat you inside
And stupidity like racism will never die.
Because your actions keep racism alive
Anti-racism,
Anti-racism demos,
Okay,
But what,
What these to do
With violent demonstrations,
Arson and booty
And thuggery
Setting on fire and running
For cover and shelter?
Under the pretext of all these,
The politicos will come light,
Get the media coverage,
Will turn into spokesmen overnight,
National heroes
As this is the time of
Making a name free of cost
Without striving for.
What this nonsense for,
What this hooliganism,
Thuggery
And booty,
Where are they going,
What are they doing
Under the banner of race and racism?
The matter is over,
They have erred
And for this the court is there
But why to create nuisance unnecessarily
By demonstrating and damaging,
Vandalizing it all,
Burning and charring it all?
The bystanders and passers-by have
Already reported it
With their click of the cameras,
The guilty are already under the scanner
But to hold it guilty all
Is not good at all.
The matter is sub judice,
The court is looking into the matter,
But take you not law into
The hands of yours,
The offense they have
Is serious no doubt.
But it will take,
Justice will be done
Be sure of it,
But take it for also that
Man sometimes errs too,
Does not know why is he erring?
their coarse voices
Wow! Chinaman s-peak-s En-gli-sh
amplified
by a room of silence
... my Bruce Lee kick in the air
Note:  Bruce Lee (27 November 1940 -  20 July 1973)   was a Chinese American and Hong Kong actor, and founder of the Jeet Kune Do (The Way of the Intercepting Fist)   martial arts movement. He is highly-regarded and most-loved by his movie fans and martial art followers, viewed by many martial art commentators as 'inarguably' the greatest martial arts star of his generation.
beware two wrongs do not make a right
reverse racism is still racism
bigotry prejudice intolerance injustice
Not much so far done
More needs to be done
To tame this demon-
Racism is on the leash
Blunted & stunted a bit
Thus far it's only the tip
Dwells this demon in
Deep dense dark dens'
Alleys of it's followers
No place out of reach.
Direct Racism In Fake Humanity
April 13, 2020
"Black not,
Treat the white;
One after one dies -
O, you, ask the virus! "
Still goes on
Here in many regions.
The eyes of hate stares down at you
with so much dispproval and it makes you
feel uncomfortible and unwelcome,
Racism is major and it has to STOP
its like you want afican americans to
be ashamed to dislike their color because
you dislike it.
Unlike other people who are
afaid to stand up for whats right
im PROUD to be a young black women.
Racism has been going on since 1955 and longer,
Does anyone care about how racism affects alot of people
and, how is brings some of us down as Afican Americans,
As Afican Americans walk down the street all you hear and see is people of other races throwing the N' word at them and fingering them.
it hurts sometimes to see people disapproval of black people but like my mom always told me what doesnt kill you, makes you stronger.
Its time for a change....
END RACISM
By Latishia Johnson
-f you read my peoms dont copy my poem and call it yours, because i work way to hard for people tp be stealing my writing-THANKS ALOT
We all must bring our
Racism to end.
A message to all, I long to send.
The colors of the world,
All join as one.
For the Lord is our shepherd,
And we as his son.
Christ made all man in the
Likes of him.
So please let us all, "End Racism".
A lightning bolt thought
caused in his mind prism
a shift... a May schism..
He was to work against
geneaological and
genetic racism.
Geography and Racism
I have only seen
Africa from the deck
Of a ship sailing by
What I know comes
From books
White men meeting
In darkest Africa
The merchants followed
Soldiers
And colonisation
Racism is contagious and
It settled in the mind
Of Europeans
The illness widened to
Include everyone not white
Now we live
With our trespasses
It truly is a burden
How long will you go
Doing
Racism, anti-racism,
Now it is time to
Make the ghost down
Your head,
The ghost of racism, anti-racism
Which made you dance
So long.
disease gutter journalism
raises ugly head distorts
headline news coverage
inflames red neck elements
simple minded politicians
bigots into racial rantings
attacks
launched upon innocent
muslims
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Racism persists when
Prejudice and ignorance
Flourish together.
the silence
between his hockey stories...
a banana
thrown on the ice
to trip a black player
Globe,
Lobe,
Robe! ! ! !
Rope of life,
Hope is the key without racism!
Dreams of love and life,
Doing the right thing;
Accepting all mankind without racism.
Crest of love,
Nest of peace,
Eyes to overcome the odds of life;
Burst! ! !
Not with lust,
Only with the truth.
Adventures!
Sailing along with your mind,
Able to share and care;
Musing along like a beautiful flower,
Enhancing the truth,
Movingon! !
Watching the birds singing along;
A lovely song.
Motherland with the beauty of nature,
Steps taken with love;
Hope is the key!
Dreams of righteous morals;
Works and words,
Uplifting the muse of the truth.
How long will the mayhem continue to,
Rioting and chaos,
Anti-racism protests
Aligned with arson, loot and setting on fire,
Breaking and damaging of property,
How long,
How, long will this mayhem
In the name of protests,
How long,
How long this vandalism?
How long, how long will they,
The activists,
Anarchists and bohemian artists,
Leftists and so called rightists?
If all are wrong, are they right?
Say you?
We are fed up with this
Brand of protesters,
This looters brigade,
The rowdy and unruly elements
And anti-socials
Always in hunt for something,
To make out from this
Vandalism,
The chaos and crisis,
The pandemonium and hullabaloo,
The rogues and thieves.
To protest is not to politicize it,
Improvise the situation
To be benefitted from,
To give it a political colour,
To protest is not to break,
Loot and to be thugs,
Destroy business,
Now say you,
When will this looters' brigade
Come to a stop,
When will these vandalizers?
We have met before
And you closed the door
Imagine the pain I had to endure
So this is my song
For I have done no wrong
We have met before
And you left me feeling sore
My only crime was to be black
So while the wind keeps track
There are no words that can offer a cure
This is the bit
I call Internet shit
And it doesn't take one with wit
To understand the racism that sweeps the floor
A picture and some words is all that I wore
And you never even found out if I was a bore
We have met before
Immediately you thought of me as unpolished and raw
And the negativity just flowed in waves more and more
A picture and some words is all it takes
For you to conclude that I am a complete fake
And in your narrow minded head you have baked
Internet racism leaving me with a sour taste wide awake
I saw its ugly head
And witnessed its action.
I saw the color of its forehead
And the mental degradation
That it can cause.
No need to pause,
I saw the size of its teeth.
This beast moves like a serpent.
At times behaves like a thief,
Who's not afraid to rant.
I saw the elephant in the room.
This is scary; let me get the broom,
To chase it, let me get something,
So I can expel it from the ring.
I saw the sad smile of racism,
It is sneaky like a sick possum,
Who wants to hide the body in the drum.
I am warning you that it is worse than a cancer.
It can poison the children of Mother Nature.
I saw the stand-up reptile, the grand wizard,
The archaic ginormous lizard.
I've survived to see its ugly head
And to witness its action and inaction
I saw the color of its forehead
And its indiscriminate destruction.
I saw the penguins doing the moonwalk,
They gestured and also attempted to talk.
I am what I am and your not.
It was said by someone
that once she lets me inside
back to you she won't ever come.
When they say
what I lack in intelligence I make up in size.
When they say
what I lack in education I make up in speed.
Mr.Hampton is closed
my mind he made up long ago.
Across mirror lake
rowing twords me is a man in a covered boat
she goes to Yale.
Don't call the police on me.
I don't have an alibi.
It must of been done by that other someone
it couldn't of been done by me.
Every thirty one days rabbits can.
I don't like what you are I am not.
A monkey can see what you never could feel.
It's people like me that you need.
When those  victims of racism are cruelly abused,
Their faces look so sad and they don't know they are used.
A fear of things makes them inept to protect their space.
Sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place.
The crisis and the wars made these people immigrants.
Discriminated, blacks and whites look so innocent.
Their Stolen Generation grows and lives in disgrace.
Sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place.
They need equality and peace in this world to live
And they pray to have the mercy and love our Lord can give.
To protest in the streets, they run their life steeplechase.
Sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place.
lessons in racism
should be taken to heart
never crime repeated
Will someone please say it’s a rumor and not true,
That professional woman’s golf is not going to,
Require that players who play in any LPGA events,
Have to speak English or back home they are sent.
Wow! Why not take the lead of the PGA men’s side?
When Tiger Woods emerged did others run and hide?
No! They practiced, worked out and hired coaches,
As brighter lights shined some women hid like roaches.
2009 from September 7, is just over 100 days away,
It takes years to learn English unless sports you play,
Basketball, football, baseball are a few that come to mind,
The Ladies Profession Golf Association is ahead, not behind.
Many ex-players are making the adjustment to play by play,
Far from the days when, “you know” was all they could say,
But, this progress has taken decades and now you expect,
Better golfers to learn proficient English just to get a check?
What’s happened to competition, head to head with the best?
Do we have to wait for another Olympics to put skill to the test?
I though only in politics via the cold war did this stuff exist,
Now the “sport” of women’s golf is going be added to the list.
Sports is an activity governed by a set of competitive rules,
Not to be goverend by where you did or did not go to school,
Going from one country to another you don’t need a visa to play,
Just a passport, there is no test as to what you can or cannot say.
True, not every country like our United States has free speech,
However, you need not be fluent in the local just to compete,
Playing against the world’s best is what makes golf so sweet,
Not sending them home because you’re tired of getting beat.
I know this is not all the players only a handful of spoiled quitters,
Sometimes is seems as though a few caddies are also baby sitters,
The one and only way to be the best is to beat the ones that are,
Who wants to watch a match with winners barely breaking par?
This a demeaning, stupid, selfish, insensitive, bitter, jealous rule,
You become a better golfer by going to UCLA instead of Q school?
I certainly hope this insensitiveness doesn’t too last long or go very far,
Will parking a Taurus next to a S600 Benz make the Ford a better car?
Didn’t the word golf mean, “Gentlemen Only Ladies Forbidden? ”
Now it’s the ladies who are trying to keep the best players hidden?
OK, hide your mama, jewelry, money, Picasso, Rembrandt or Monet,
But don’t hide the best foreign players by not allowing them to play.
There’s an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, EEOC,
We should have one for the Equal Opportunity To Play, EOTP,
The 1st means you have rights if American Black or Latino Brown,
Number two won’t discriminate if you can’t tell a verb from a noun.
Most born and raised here do not know, just listen to their speech,
Many are insturctors in class rooms and they are the ones who teach,
There was a time when slaves were killed teaching each other to read,
This is simply the principle of, “good old fashioned American Greed.”
First there was the “noose” incident around the neck of Tiger Woods,
Now players are going to be penalized because they are too good,
Have you heard the one about fast foods? What do you think of that?
World carry out & delivery will be illegal so only Americans can get fat.
Many are reporting the decision was made and it's the sponsors call,
Still, it’s up to the American players, they’re the ones who hit the ball,
Whomever, to see that it is wrong you don’t need the neck of a Giraffe,
How many LPGA pros from this country spoke up on the others behalf?
Do what the men’s tour did, improve the quality of your game,
Does it bring any excitement with the boring same old same?
Ladies it’s time to speak up and proudly declare, “Yes we can! ”
Whether it’s Sweeden, South America, Korea, China or Japan.
Flash! Ladies Golf recinded, public opinion has changed its mind,
It only shows things don’t always improve or get better with time,
Neither the Asians or any other nationality is killing the LPGA tour,
Just incompetent front office decisions made behind a closed door.
It was heart breaking to leave great grandfathers area;
Blood sucking land grabbers and from their phobia!
Loved those trees, fields, own homestead with fence;
From their disturbance I couldn't have any defense!
Homestead and land were taken unlawfully by them;
Rules of hyenas can'tsafeguard us in their system!
Life is running extremely fast;
Towards ash to ash, dust to dust!
There is no control and no power;
No medicine and no cure are!
I laugh when you want success;
Selfish luxury whom to impress?
Many make big profits in own nationalservices;
Religions, nationalism, patriotism make their races!
Nationalism and patriotism are two bad viruses;
In courts, lawyers, police, military, students, most cases!
Why important what race, religion, nationality you have?
Only global humanity can save and can make you brave!
No, no to racism,
No, no to racial prejudice and hypocrisy,
Say no, no to any sort of discrimination.
But demonstrate you not violently
Under thew banner of the anti-racist movement,
Talk you of civil rights definitely
But it does not ask you be uncivil in your behaviour.
Racism has no place
in poetry
dear poets
equal all you be
all words
have an imagery
yours may be
could be
Indian or Asian
others love
English orCyndy's
What?
see you don't like it
though you know it
keep out of mind
then stay also
outta mind
(of others)
compose poetry withfervor
see I return to give
SERMONS
here
so do THE POET IN ME
hear
they need help around the arrogant world
against racism the poor and blacks.
during history they always have pointed
fighting is easy only with an axe
they are humans actually people please believe
they need just a life, working in pax
people just protest, yelp your words
gather up in streets in large stacks
show that we are siblings there is no different
enforce your power use it in max
If you love me,
Let it come from your heart and, let it show on your face;
No racism! ! !
There once was a scruffy old pig,
he loved wearing his barrister's wig.
Made from hair of a mare
it had style and much flair
and it made his square head look quite big.
He would walk in the forest to find
any critter equipped with a mind.
The he'd lecture on law
and the evil he saw
and how so many critters were blind.
It was wrong for the rabbit to claim
that the fox was a bastard in name.
And the hawk did object
to the great disrespect
that the mice showed as part of the game.
There were horses of course, some were white,
others brown and of different height.
And the birds, oh dear God,
some where certainly odd
there were glow worms that lit up the night.
Well, the pig wore his lipstick in pink,
he had found that it helped him to think.
In the end he surmised
that they all were disguised
and that some went as far as to wink.
So he preached to the not yet converted
that a real and truly concerted,
and big effort was due
to correct this snafu,
and that racists were really perverted.
'Just a moment, ' a voice was now heard,
' I am an owl, and a very wise bird,
God gave ears, eyes and nose
to us, don't you suppose
that your stance, Mr. Pig is absurd? '
I always feel disappointed when of racism I read
And when I read of it in Ireland I feel very sad indeed
For racism in society should never have a place
And people should never be judged on their colour or their race.
As the Land of saints and scholars Ireland was known Worldwide
And the Irish people suffered and their rights to them denied
But the Irish in their sense of fair play could take a certain pride
And for their human rights and liberty the sons of Ireland died.
Poor migrants from Romania their possessions weigh light
To live and work in Ireland do they not have the right?
They may come un-invited but their numbers only small
And the Irish too are migrants as history will recall.
I read it's the Irish media that fans racism's flame
If this be so of their bad work they must feel a great shame
They cannot say in years to come the fault was never ours
When they first used the noxious spray that poisoned all the flowers.
I am an Irish migrant far from my native shore
And others treat me with respect than that one could not ask for more
A fair go for all people and for everyone fair play
Those words from centuries ago are relevant today.
.
What racist named her a racist?
What bigot underscored her bigotry?
Racism is something held by all,
black or white or mixture.
What is in a word?
Racism?
Or maladjustment...
.
Wondering at the rudeness in people of power, thinking
they are better than those they are supposed to be
serving.
It's hard to imagine how people can feel that way,
while disrespecting others who are gentle and cooper-
ative to a fault, treating them in turn with the utmost
respect.
Just can't believe some people's kids, impolite, no
manners or common decency towards others in their lives.
Horrible and totally horrendous people, perpetrating
the racism that's keeping peace from happening in our
world.
Prejudice
I don't like him or her or them
because they are
white, black, Asian, European, Middle Eastern,
Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Atheist,
those narrow-minded vegetarians,
and those cruel murderers who eat meat.
Look at those geeks, and nerds, and goths.
Why would anyone want to be emo or scene?
What kind of loser likes classical music and books?
Look at those disgraces to humanity
who have tattoos and piercings.
Look at how fat she is, and how skinny he is!
You jocks and preppy girls, you think you are so good.
Obviously anyone who watches TV or drinks beer is a bum,
and don't you hate those teens always texting on their phones?
People are prejudiced
against everyone and everything,
how you look, and what you do,
whether you are young or old,
male or female, what you believe and what you don't.
And let us not forget those people
who are prejudiced against people
who are prejudiced.
Racism
The blacks
the whites
the Asians
the Indians
the Middle Easterns
the Italians
the Jews
the Mexicans
the Russians
the Chinese
the Japanese
the English
the French
the humans.
No matter where you are from
there are people who will hate you
because of your race and nationality.
You cannot control
where you are born
nor your heritage
any more
than you can control
being a human.
Yet, that does not matter
to the racists.
Why would you judge someone
on such a silly thing?
Does it really make a difference
whether you were born here or there?
Does the color of your skin
affect your mind, heart, or soul?
Do the faults of our ancestors
become our faults?
Perhaps,
perhaps race does matter.
Perhaps someone who is white
is intrinsically different
than someone who is black.
Perhaps all Asians
are different
than Europeans.
It is true,
that certain characteristics
are more common in some races than others -
stereotypes do not form without reason.
Yet even so,
even if a stereotype does apply to a race,
does that make the race good or bad?
And even if a stereotype does apply to a race,
can that stereotype be applied
to every member of the race?
Is not every single person in the world
different and unique?
Can there never be exceptions to rules?
Must you really hate people
because of where they are from
and who their parents are?
Pressure of racism flows from mouths of those who proclaim
to be politically correct and who are in fact, just the
opposite.
They are found to be most often, the bigots and racists
filled with hatred, anger and jealousy.
A relationship between all people should be looked at as
equals and not by color or nationality at all.
Maybe then this imbalance of all people will straighten
itself out, and rightly so.
This hatred for all mankind needs to be ended and the only
way to do this is to realize we are all equal in the eyes
of God.
It is our human failure alone that purports this war of
racism here on earth.
Arizona!  The land of sand n' fun
Passed a law that opened up a door
Allowing cops to draw n’ point a gun
At dark skinned races out of rancor
ROTMS
racism is the rich man's lash
on the poor man's back!
yea, it's hard down in the projects.
it's hard down on factory row too.
and it's hard out in them
fruit and vegetable picking fields!
it's hard in the unemployment line!
cant nobody pay the rent...
and the rich man keeps laughing,
selling us out for profit,
selling our souls and our dreams!
IT HAS TO STOP!
A newborn babe is racist free.
Racist levels that fill one's mind
Come from others like family,
Flowing ever through humankind,
As long as stark races exist.
Seeking the minds ever to fill,
Racism will seek to persist,
Where it can flow, racism will.
Minds filled full will do racist acts,
From minds filled part way, racist speech.
Most often the racist attacks
Thought after thought, while silent each.
Either a racist is or not,
Either by deed or word or thought.
Racism and Rank are humanity's shame
All people should be equal and the same
But in my lifetime this will never be
In the Human World of inequality
The person born into a so called royal family
Should be no more equal than the likes of you and me
But human society is not structured in this way
And such is life as some are known to say
The facts tell us so and facts do never lie
That human beings are mortals and all born to die
The billionaire like the pauper to the Reaper's scythe must fall
Eventually death comes to one and all
In the Human World inequality of Rank and Race
Seems sad to say will always have a place.
We must be aware…..,
Of the Culture Of Racism….,
It’s a slur and a swear….,
The Culture Of Racism….! ! !
Can’t turn your back….,
On the Culture Of Racism….,
Or you’ll feel the whack…,
Of the Culture Of Racism….! ! !
It’s hard to believe….
The Culture Of Racism….,
That’s why we all grieve….,
The Culture Of Racism…! ! !
We must face the facts….,
On the Culture Of Racism ….! ! !
Cause we’ve seen the attacks…..,
Of the Culture Of Racism….,
It follows us all…,
The Culture Of Racism….,
But we must stand tall….,
Against the Culture Of Racism….! ! !
Can we control or stop it….,
As long as it’s been livin’….? ? ?
That’s the priceless question….,
On the Culture Of Racism…! ! !
.............Trade Martin,  2008 & 2013
Racism is the deadliest form of cancer
For our society, it is a serious danger
Racism is a form of terror
Racism is a cancerous disease
It is about ignorance and prejudice
It is in the streets, it is in the air
It is volatile, it is everywhere.
Racism is like a chameleon
It is a fatal and lethal weapon
Racism is a form of hatred and bigotry
It is a false sense of superiority
By many ignorant goons with a light pigmentation
It is about false ideologies and strange perception
It is about being evil and using unfair practices
It is about discriminating on false pretenses.
Not all obnoxious racists lack some forms of education
Many of them have advanced degrees, their contention
Is that those steadfast fools want to protect the status quos
They create all types of standard in order to block
Or prevent Non-Whites from reaching their potentials
They discriminate, humiliate, make fun of and mocked
Anybody that they consider weak intellectually
Or inferior. Racism is about hate, greed, and bigotry.
Racism is about prejudice, shame, and ignorance
It is about not giving somebody a one-time chance
It is about not second guessing. They just start shooting
Killing, destroying, discriminating and annihilating
Racism is about insecurity, and putting up blocks
Some Caucasians and others feel better than or superior
To Asians, Indians, Africans, Afro- Americans or Blacks
Those Whites have a mental state which is inferior
Deficient, weak, hollow, feeble, unstable, and challenged
Regardless, many Whites will die as racists; they will not change
And others, who are quietly biased, will be a bit tolerant
But they remain very dangerous, by being secretly defiant.
Racism is a deadly illness, a cancer
Racism about being rude and unfair
To other people by treating
Them badly, differently
And inhumanely
By poking them with a toxic syringe
Racism is to lead a rambunctious mob
Against someone who is innocent
Racism is to hire an African to do a job
And then creating a hostile working environment
Because he or she looks different
There is nothing good about racism
It is a form injustice, violence and fascism.
Copyright © November 4,2015 Logerie Hébert, All Rights Reserved
Hebert Logerie is the author of several collections of poetry.
some people
lick racism like
an ice cream
for Abraham Joshua Heschel who proclaims that Racism is man's gravest threat to man.
'those slanted eyes'
in the room silence
like thunder
racism talk
what does white
smell like?
Note:  The phrase, 'slanted eyes, ' is a racist slur that refers to a person of Asian descent, especially of Chinese descent.
Racism has a human heart,
An artery of cruelty & death,
It has blood of anger, & evil…,
Has a force of pain & antipathy.
Racism has a human mind….
An Intellect of terror & delusion,
Has an emotion of extreme savage
Imagination of vile ideas, macabre.
Racism has a human mouth,
It has tongue of torture, depravity,
Many teeth of brutal incision & kill
Has a lip of sorrow, hate & death.
JOHN NELSON 4-Mar-09
It would seem racism abounds
everywhere. In this century
and from the earliest times.
Suspicious of others who do
not belong. Different culture,
customs or language. Outsiders
like the Barbarians were despised.
Not only for their appearance
and culture but they didn't
speak Greek.
Today, the Can't Breathe movement
must be applauded. There is no
room for racists in civilised
societies. The world is now a
smaller place where infringement
of human rights is instantly
recognised.
racism in any form
is a crime against
entire ethnic diversity
our entire race humanity
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Prejudice cannot be hidden,
Arrogance for the color of skin.
Its ugly head is here again
Racism is lurking within.
Disguised as mere poetry
Seething hatred shouts,
Name calling carelessly-
Gangrene inside out.
Our blood is all red-colored
Our hearts all colored rainbow,
Racist poems you authored
Your character, they show.
I was not brought up to be mean,
To racism I am not bent,
If that's where you have been
It's such a waste of your talent.
'A man of knowledge uses words with restraint, a man of understanding is even-tempered.'
Proverbs 17: 27
'Wise men store up knowledge, but the mouth of a fool invites ruin.'
Proverbs 10: 14
........................................... ................................................. ........
May 3,2008 Tarlac City
Racism
It is bad
It is bad
In the deep south.
In the deep south.
I was a little girl
Growing up
Trying to find my way
Suffering always at the hands of
Damn morphodites
But I could see that my dear old indigenous maid
Had it worse off than me
Because of racism
Oh woe is racism
I just want to be me
Of human ignorance I am almost in despair
For racism is around me everywhere
But like they say sheer ignorance is bliss
Just like Judas betrayed Jesus with a kiss.
Some people carry their honour in a flag
And of their Nationality they brag
They feel superior and they differentiate
And against those who are different they discriminate.
So many people still judged by their race
For such there never ought to be a place
'A fair go' those untruthful words I do recall
There is no such a thing as a 'fair go for all'.
Though we live in a so called democracy
Of racism we never will be free
They judge you by where you come from and the colour of your skin
For many equality and respect seems impossible to win.
It's been awhile since the days of Martin Luther King
His name to it has a familiar ring
If against racism he did not choose to strive
Today the great man he would be alive.
So many holding the reins of power not spiritually aware
And racism is around me everywhere
And racism only leads to division and war
Just goes to show how ignorant some are.
Wise words from a wise old fellow for as long as I live I'll recall
He said if you are a Racist to one Race then you are a racist to all
You cannot be a racist to one Race and claim you are not racist in any way
Few racists like to be called racist we are not racist you hear them say.
Racism is born of ignorance and ignorance we know to the ignorant is bliss
That difference make people more interesting the point of that some seem to miss
Our days can be measured in minutes and our lives can be measured in hours
And those we look on as different their blood is no less red than ours.
When some people talk of a fair go they do not mean a fair go for all
But a fair go for their own kind only in their ways some are very small
People should not be disadvantaged due to their place of birth or their Race
In the Human World of the future for such there will not be a place.
That I do pity those who are racist may seem quite a strange thing to say
In the darkness they surround themselves with they seem to be losing their way
In shaping the future of the Human World any part they are not destined to play
Their thinking it does seem outdated in the multicultural World of today.
Ever since modern man
drove the last
neanderthals
from their cave's
into the sea
the Straight's of Gibraltar
have witnessed
what man
in his quest to rid himself
of what he fear's
the most
that when he dies
he doesn't die but spreads
instead this curse
that none should live and
living died each culture's night.
People from different places come to America
They have different backgrounds and have different skin
But they are in America
They should be accepted, even if their from Berlin
And yet we make fun of how they look
And call them names by their background
Because it’s a little harder for them to read a book
And we look down on them and frown
Racism is a weird thing
Sometimes we don’t even know what it is
Like Mr. King
And that dream of his
We shouldn’t judge people
At any cost
Because their still people
Just a little lost
So the next time you see someone
Being made fun of because of their color or background
Don’t keep walking and look down
Help and try to fix what has just been done
People are people
And they have feelings too
People are people
Just like you
Racism is still alive
They just be concealing it
Inequality is still prevalent
Systematic efforts
Can’t conceal its relevance
Injustice is rife
Even the blind can see it
Racism never died
Society was fed
Multicultural lies
Some speak out against it
Only when it’s politically convenient
But political correctness can’t mask
Society’s underlying institutionally racist elements
Racial profiling, discrimination, xenophobia & stereotypes
Live in the mindsets
Of men & women
Even some children
Can’t see past pigmentation
Racism is still alive
And well
Just ask those discriminated against on a daily basis
Because their skin color
Will always be different.
Some things never change suppose life is this way
Racism is still rife in the Human World of today
Racism through religion and nationality and culture and race
Is now as was always a human disgrace
All children are innocent and free of sin
Yet many are disadvantaged by colour of skin
Racists in their ways are so very small
Too big for their thinking the beauty of a fair go for all,
Racists have poor sense of self image and low self esteem
Yet many non racist people in the World it does seem
Many people to the higher self remain true
And their dream of a fairer and more enlightened World they pursue
For racism through religion and culture and nationality and race
In the Human World there should not be a place.
I was born and reared in Southern Illinois. That region of Illinois then a part of the Segregated South. The schools I attended were not as functional as those the white kids enjoyed. Appreciating movies at the local Roxy Theatre required a lonely climb upstairs to the balcony. I've sipped water from fountains designated 'Negro Only, ' and well remember the 'Colored' signs at the rear of the 'Tri-City' bus. At an advanced age, in the center of one of the World's most renowned regions, where least expected, I've heard the disparaging word 'nigger' directed my way on separate occasions.
As an activated USMC Reservist during the Korean Conflict, I was deployed to Parris Island, South Carolina. Arriving in Beaufort soon after daybreak, famished, amid thoughts centered on an uncertain future, I was oblivious to the cultural mores around me. Dressed in full military regalia, toting a fully packed sea-bag, I entered the nearest restaurant seeking a mere breakfast meal. I was met at the door with words I shall never forget, 'We don't serve Colored People here.' My Country had just ordered me to submit my life to protect it, with death if necessary, yet found it convenient to deny me a decent meal in a comfortable setting.
Racial insensitivity, once experienced, remains indelibly ingrained, precisely defining bigotry whenever and wherever it appears. I've seen its presence in proliferated acts of political expediency. Known it denied in spite of the critical obvious. Have witnessed those who claim to abhor the practice, sit silently in tacit approval. Folks who observe, yet fail to condemn are as culpable, I'm convinced, as any committing the overt act.
Racism - Just Another Word..'Til Once Experienced
Racist people,
Are the saddest these days.
Racist people,
And their ways...
Are fading away.
Hatred kills!
Chills.
And often excused,
As heroism.
Hatred kills!
And for thrills,
Often is defended...
As a pride.
No matter if it hangs...
Or drags alongside,
Insecurites denied.
Hiding the fact...
Their is jealousy behind,
Evil and often...
Masquerading eyes.
Black, white...
Brown or yellow folks,
Provoking attacks.
On others.
Or themselves!
To stab with a vengeance,
Behind a back.
To distort facts!
Racism kills.
And there is no sense in it.
Racism kills.
And the sense that's meant.
Racism kills.
Leaving minds incensed.
Exposing ills...
And evil wills.
Racism kills.
And there is no sense in it.
Racism kills.
And the sense that's meant.
Racism kills.
Leaving minds incensed.
Exposing ills...
And evil wills.
And evil wills to kill will end.
We have to master the art of tolerance and endurance
give honesty and love a place in our hearts
then the colours black, brown, yellow, red and white
can live together in peace and harmony..............
no matter our differences and wealth
we can really live in peace and harmony
© Sylvia Frances Chan - All Rights Reserved
Tuesday 14 July 2020
I write and put down on paper whats on my mind, I'll say  a few words none to be kind. I hate racism people of that act, I do not care what color you are. You could be white, brown, or black.A paradox has open it's door, people think who started this war.Inorgance is very bliss your conscience is telling you to listen to this, your heart we need to make a new start take part and be hate free. It's start with a vocie, it begins with me. It is time to put our hearts to  the test  and see if it brings out our best and lets  put racism to rest. Our anger and hatered have been release, cease! ! , And bring peace. Pray to god and ask him above, ''Do you  not  think it is time to spread the love ''. Make yourself proud speak up loud let it be known let the love be shown. Racism needs to end.
Racism on it does not have gender or colour or creed
And the Human World of it is surely not in need
The greatness in 'the fair go' the racist seems to miss
There is truth in the saying that ignorance is bliss
Racism does not have a nationality it is not black, white or brown
And racists live in the countryside and every village and city and town
No shortage of racists in the Human World of today
Yet they are in minority that would seem fair to say
The majority I know of not racist in any way
To those different to them due respect they do pay
In the Human World it does not have any use
And for racism there never is an excuse
The racists as people in their ways are small
Long live the greatness in 'a fair go for all'.
racism is everywhere
racism is all around you
so lets end racism
and fill peace, love, and joy in the air.
Racism, Racism, Racism
You give a human sorrow and hate
Racism, Racism, Racism
Look at what you've done and look at their state
Racism, Racism, Racism
You are evil and sharp as a knife
Racism, Racism, Racism
You play with human's life
Racism, Racism, Racism
Why are you so cruel?
Racism, Racism, Racism
You are nothing but a fool!
Racism, Racism, Racism
Why judge by colour?
Racism, Racism, Racism
You are horrendously disgraceful but hate to admit you've got the power
Racism, Racism, Racism
Why are you here?
Racism, Racism, Racism
You're not wanted so go die with fear.
Racist prejudice had blinded the minds of mankind,
Thus forgetting the enormous contributions of one another on this earth;
Is it the colour of my skin or the colour of your skin?
Who made them all?
Racist, racist! Racism! !
I grew up in a family which respects all colours,
So i don't see why we should condemn what the Creator created!
And He is the ONLY ONE who knows the secret of these colours.
Racial explosives are
more dangerous than
Nuclear Explosives
Ban Racism from
this beautiful globe
(condemn Australian racist attack on Indians)
June 2,2009
black holocaust hell
racial hate
venom born of fate
the cold emotion of a species
fuming in rage against God
who allowed colour to appear
and multiplied races among nations
in a spectrum of light
where colours merge and dissolve
into one human species
the cold emotion of a species
with clouded eyes
that sees only black and white
declaring war against a species
that thrives in the diversity of its colours
the flowers that shape nations
blossoming in their millions
into one human species
the cold emotion of a species
with no logical explanation
with no religious extrapolation
with no physical justification
with no spiritual destination
Racism
Racism all great foolishness to those that perish,
Black and White,
God the Master Plan for flesh and blood,
Ain't nobody telling me black and white hast that distinguish,
In my own understanding,
History is a Beauty of Humanity to live and to see,
The simple life we lead,
So short and hard by our own making,
What is the basics of racism?
Like Nietchze said,
We are the gods to wash the earth,
If we kill the black or white,
When will we see the power of God in us,
Since a power of god is revealed in man,
Let us see the earthly volition as Dynamic,
Half and half,
We all are people that share the same earth,
This planet is so Beautiful,
Whilst many waste time saying of racist,
That power will fade,
But love in secret will never perish,
Love hast that unlimited,
No half missing,
Most intellects be half missing,
But to release the burden of racism,
Let's all improve on our character,
That the positive vibe's may make the Sword increase,
Love is power of the Word,
All race one,
All blood from same brothers and sisters,
Can't you see that you can never fathom all the secrets of the world?
If we all say we all know,
Surely we all say that we all insane.
Racism
Of my eyes two stream
I had read
Read somewhere
Where was that?
Do not know.
Hollywood’s classic’s nice ending made me laugh
But I felt pain of Dave and Philip, who is me?
What is race?
What the hell when with faith?
I hate it but exist.
Unlucky
I could be for having been around.
Seeing rich, poor in pain and others,
Ate their food, in kitchen I slept with the rats, guinea pigs.
I have walked in their shoes.
I cried with the film.
Out of eyes two streams.
What is race?
What the hell when it comes with the faith?
Jews-Arabs or Persians and blacks, first nations…all hated.
I’m tired of myself,
Of being,
Of walking on two feet,
Walking as a mankind,
I’m ashamed, I’m ashamed.
Read the book,
Watch the film:
Gentleman’s Agreement,
Then cry as I did.
Feel ashamed of being human.
Stalking the corridors of life,
Black, frustrated minds
Scream for release
From Christian racist moulds.
Moulds that enslave
Black independence.
Take care! White racists!
Black can be racists too.
A violent struggle could erupt
And racists meet their death.
Colour, the gift of nature
To mankind,
Is now the contentions bone,
And black-white hatred sustains itself
on the rotting, putrid flesh
That once was man.
I'm not a racist, I just don't want, to live with them
What makes you think, they want to live with you,
See, it's them, they are bloody racists,
I wonder why, they don't want to live with me
I'm not good enough for them
It must be they want to take away my house my land,
My car my livelihood, they are not only racists
They are just damned theives, Racism is all about theft
They would rob me of my place and equal space
I'm not a racist, there are just too many of them
Next thing you know, they'll want to run the show
And tell me what to do, make laws and rules,
Sit in judgment, take a share of the cake.
Racism is an economic war, dressed in cultural bias
A crueler form, of personal nature, adding insult to injury.
Racism
Eats you up inside.
Plays upon
you're insecure mind.
Perceptions of threats
that are not there.
You hate his dark skin
and the black man's hair.
You hate the white skin
of the blue-eyed boy.
This hatred -
you taste -
it does more
than annoy.
It consumes
you're very
identity.
Eats you up
psychologically.
Prepares you
to murder
indescriminately.
And destroys
all who are touched
so
tragically...
there are two things that i fear
one that i could not see
the other i would rather not see
they are ghosts and racists
the first i could fend with faith
the second with thank god
his abundant milk of patience
racists are a society's cancer
debilitating, energy sapping
draining peace
whenever one is around
you are robbed of your vitality
the environment dries up
and things grind to a halt
the racists could stare into
the starry night and are
consumed by its darkness
rather than the glitters of  stars
god's rich graces fail to reach them
their earth cracks and harvests fail
few walk the middle path
sooner or later they let loose
the ghosts they rear in them
- the vortex of negative charges
stone on cogs of wheel
the factory where the devils work
day and night to fuel and heat up hell
okay okay okay okay
good no good no
love love love
little jimmy
had a willy
he was rather fond of
when the end of the world came mc shiz poppy shit fart was to abloish the poo castle situated on mars and kill timmy tabooli.
once the fence was fixed, sir clinton wellaway fag tittywank shot a pile of muffins over terabithia and googled that shit.
dane cook was dead and iraq was wet with fat chicks, wateva shall timmy do shoot the cake with candle jiuce. frizz wolop vageta is one bad ass mother fuker and goku was beaten with an axe and a fork
The racist cloaks his loathing thoughts
behind deceiving eyes
Those men who once wore hoods and robes
Today wear shirts and ties
Their methods changed but yet and still,
Their mission is the same
Today they lynch with politics,
the racist's favorite game
Divide and conquer is their plan
to keep minorities
From seeing that the forest lies
just shortly past the trees
Racism lurks within the press,
courthouses, banks and schools
Black folks convinced that all is well
have certainly been fooled
A racist underground exists,
a chilling fact indeed
They seek to kill, steal and destroy,
We can't let them succeed
We the black people,
The workin folk
Bus drivers, waiters, garbage men
The common peeps dat
The millionaires and billionaires
Regard as a pathic joke
Our lives to them
A pig in a poke
When we cry foul
They act as if
Nobody speaks,
This planned but never implemented
Democratic process reeks
Our so called government
IS Full of pie-backed, two faced
Money hungry anglo freaks
With new world order
Tattooed on their cheeks
Cause most of us
Have took a toke
Of weed or alcohol or coke
Got high…
And are victims of the
Propaganda laced media…..
In a stupor we ask why…
Why do they lie…?
To the poor and disenfranchised
That still clings to the concept
Of baseball and apple pie
Of God and country
Semper fi…
We the black people
Hope
That all these racist
Elitist…
No count hawk
Right wing defeatists’ crakahs
Die…
We the black people
Pray
That all these nazi, .. Skin head
Turner diary believing
Devil worship,
War is money
Death is honey
Twisted honkeys, ... fry, .. TODAY…Listen to what I say
Water is searching the path—
Lost its way—
We are dancing, laughing,
In our own way—
Gust of flood snatched happiness,
After waiting long for lost way,
Our thought is not less than water,
Searching the peace way—
Gust of unified thought- be a flood
For terrorism to wash out from earth,
How long  we let them paint earth with blood?
yes I know what you mean
yes I understand how you feel
yes some events in world history...
should never be forgotten
should always be remembered
least this evil happens again...
but two wrongs do not make a right
reverse racism is still racism
bigotry prejudice intolerance injustice
racism in any form
is a crime against
culture ethnic diversity
our entire race humanity
racism perpetrated in the name
of past injustices is still racism
racism justified now in the name
of past evils crimes is still racism
a racist is still a racist regardless
of any all justifications quoted
all racism is a violation
of the right to equality
belonging to all humanity
all racism is a cruel violation
of the sacred right to equality
belonging to all our humanity
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
reverse racism back lash counter swing
pendulum momentum counter swings
racist evil deeds sow hate bigotry dark seeds
reverse racism racism in reverse
racism justifies not reverse prejudice intolerance
justifies not torture killing men women children
hate breeds hate war breeds war never evens score
circles of violence cruelty bias narrow-mindedness
taught at mothers fathers knee will not set us free
hate violence imprisons souls who can love enemies?
Signs appearing in the middle of an afternoon rush
at Wendy's.
People of all colors, creeds, religions, and races
together, laughing, talking, getting along fantastically.
So much for racism here in America, it is just a lie
perpetrated by obama and all his racist friends.
Letting the entire world know, that here we accept one
another as people, individuals only.
Nothing going on here, no hatred or intolerance, only
what obama and George Soros are paying people to do.
They're trying to make it look like America is prejudiced,
yet it is the farthest thing from the truth.
Only problem we have here now are the muslims who are
intolerant, prejudiced and racists, wanting sharia law.
Yet it goes completely against our Constitution, and the
morals of our country, it will never be the law here!
The world can count on it, as God Blesses America, the
home of the brave and the land of the free!
What happend next after the GOP, cherry noses that indicate popped capillarys
from habitual drinking the Mayor is forced to leave.
Pacing back and forth on state road yellow lines that prisons are paid by to the state
using black convicts to paint.
In the south when next you pass by take a look as they are all mostly black take look again as the few token whites
are more prone to excape, Paul Newman had rabbit blood.
Rednecks unlike me though I am, why do the wiggers that think they are black,
rejected by whites, the psychological damage is - promoted by Jerry Springer and judge Judy
questions arise as to why those that watch them wash the white trash in it's vast ocean of.
In bread hicks, born in the south half have had sex with their brother or sister.
With eyes like green lizards that now grow on the side of their heads.
Crack babies rejected by those whom know they are future food for their prisons.
Policing the world with such obvious flaws and why the terrorists prey on them.
They have realized that they are being bred out of exsistance,
southern hate filled racists these grey headed whites unable to sleep.
Living in terror of what?
Racism is both systemic and systematic
Racism is a systemic and endemic cancer
Racism is a very painful and odious chancre
Covid-19 is both systemic and systematic
Black people have been under attack
For many centuries, it is time to react
Because we are fed up, we're tired
Of being oppressed. There's too much hatred
We're sick of the overt and covert bias
We can no longer stand for the chaos
Society needs to clean up the mess
We're tired of the pandemic racism
And the systemic and systematic racism
We're tired of the pandemic viruses
And the systemic and systematic viruses
Las Casas was a killer, not a protector
Of human rights or human dignity
Las Casas was a cancer, not a Monsignor
Who stood for justice and equality
Black lives matter and everybody matters
We are not cowards, we are fighters
We will die for justice and freedom
We'll protest, fight and we shall overcome.
Copyright © June 2020, Hébert Logerie, all rights reserved.
Hébert Logerie is the author of several collections of poems.
Children are born blind to hate and bigotry
With their big smiles and loving ways
They are taught ugliness
By unthinking adults and overheard conversation
This makes them use words and terms that for generations
Have caused hate and bitterness
To our fellow man.
Yes, they are taught, not born
To this social cancer.
I once asked a black friend how he would like
To be  addressed?
Black, afro-american or just coloured.
No he said - just call me friend.
I see the sad color of racism not every other day
But every minutes of the day
I see the serious mental and physical damages
That this cancer has done throughout the ages
And is still doing to our beloved human beings
Others treat our people like they are leftover beans
On a pet's plate. Our people deserve respect
Fairness, justice, acknowledgement
Compassion and better treatment
Our sisters are tired of being left out on the deck
Our siblings are often harassed senselessly, persecuted
Falsely accused and relentlessly prosecuted
At one time, they were hunted by the system
At other time, haunted by an organized medium
Created to destroy, ravage and annihilate
To ridicule, punish and discriminate
I see the color of racism, when the police for no apparent reasons
Stopped, frisked and handcuffed our homeless, elderlies
Or our law abiding citizens, like it was open seasons
To hunt for mule deers or bears, who behave like enemies
Of the civilized society. I see the sick color of racism
When our people are not hired not for being unqualified
But because of their skin color; they're quickly disqualified
Dismissed, fired or terminated. I see the monster of cynicism
Every minutes of the day. The arrogance is unparalleled
Beyond belief. The racists forgot that God only created one race
One human race, one human race
Their false pride, their ignorance is unleveled
And their audacity, incomparable. I see the colors of racism
Not that I want to search for them, not that I want to find them
Most of the time, I simply cannot evade or escape them
It is not easy to ignore the litanies of bad or negative mannerisms
The bigots easily function like lethal venomous vipers
That suck out the emotions, and that destroy all positive characters
I see the ugly color of racism not every other day
But every minutes of the day.
Friend,
How long will this
Racism,
Anti-racism drama
Continue?
Friend,
Who are
Actors, producers
And directors
Of this drama?
How long will the hooligans,
Vandalizers,
Looters,
Breakers
And thugs
Will keep
Engaging the stage
Of racism,
Anti-racism,
Protest,
Protest drama,
Street,
Street theatre,
Goondaism,
This goondaism must
Come to an end
As has gone into excess
And excess of everything
Is bad?
I was once invited to participate,
In a seminar.
To discuss the effects of racism,
Conducted many miles away in an isolated
Remote area
Distanced from where the effects took place.
Near my home.
And I was to be the only Black to appear,
On this prestigious panel.
I declined the offer.
Since I felt it was ridiculous,
To remove myself away from those 'effects'
While in discussion with others,
Who kept perpetuated the acceptance
Of expressed indifferences.
Plus I had attended another affair,
At the same location...
As others listened intently,
While I explained reasons for wearing my hair
In dreads!
And if it had an affect on my identity.
I was then asked to come again,
Next time I was in the area.
As if these 'settings' would be missed,
In my life!
And those who 'sympathized' with my plight,
Would embrace my need to receive their acceptance.
With an understanding of my internal turmoil.
Which, of course, had to depress,
My sensibilities.
Yes!
Only an eyewitness experiencing this,
Would appreciate the sacrifices I make.
Living amongst those who have not been so 'chosen'
To escape from their deprived and substandard conditions.
Inflicted upon them by those less liberal of deed.
I feel so blessed to be honored,
By those 'willing' to share their comfort zones!
However...
There is something about my own environment,
That affords me the freedom to express less pretentiousness.
Although I must say this,
Being a 'victim' of those who are racists...
Has, at times, been to my benefit.
At least I know where they are coming from.
And I have been given opportunities to avoid them!
With a choice to leave them and their preceptions,
'Impressed' upon their limited consciousness.
And I,
Could leave them alone to glorify their intentions.
It hides the facts,
And exposes insecurities.
With a remorse,
No one is willing to admit or take back.
But at night...
It allows sex between diverse races,
To explore their differences
Under sheets to heat and sweat.
And this is done,
Without a public forum.
And the good of the act,
No one regrets...
Even thrusting to get wet!
The magic of racism may swell into hate.
But no one who is tempted to taste,
Regrets the nakedness of it!
The racism erases
the beautiful memories
and it believes
in the perfect
world
The racism is
a too big
and horrible problem
It is a
wrong and impure
mistake
The racism is
a bad and
public thought
The racism is
played by the
poors of reasons
The racism doesn't
live in the
jungle but it
lives in the
modern society
I'm against the
racism
The racists are
cursed because they
are false
For me the
racism resides in
the hate
For the innocents
the racism is
lost war
For me the
racism doesn't exist
in a citizen
world
For me the
racism is a
terrible suffering
It can't stand
the harmony and
the heart of
a bay
It survives in
the evident darkness
The racism hates
the comfortable and
hospitable villa
The racism serves
the big Evil
It doesn't use
the magic
It wants to
destroy the balance
between the people
For the angels
the racism is
a shame and
a bright lie
They knew of racism and police abuse
And for retalitation the Kellys they had an excuse
Ned and Dan Kelly's sister Kate was raped by a man of the law
In the dehumanizing of the Kellys that was the last straw.
The lawman who raped Kate Kelly for his crimes did not pay
And before condemning the Kelly gang and bad things of them say
If the same thing did happen to your family
Than they did would you have acted differently?
In the old Beechworth prison where Ned Kelly served time
For horse stealing that does not seem such a great crime
In a small draughty cell on an earthen floor he slept
In worse living conditions any dog never kept.
Ned and Dan Kelly, Steve Hart and Joe Byrne paid for their ill fame
And each in their own right a legendary name
And though all of them did go to an early grave
It can be said of them that they did die brave.
Glenrowan where the Kelly gang made their last stand
A historical old Town in the Southern Land
Disrespect for their families the lawmen did show
And things might have been different for them did they receive a fair go.
Thinking was I of this newest scare
That has stolen away people's dare—
The deadly virus COVID nineteen
For which we may soon find a vaccine.
But doubt I've of racism virus,
That has been one of most vicious,
Nor is there a vaccine known to fight,
Nor may one sooner come to fair light.
Nor ever an antibiotic
To defeat the devil's lethal kick—
A virus that's proved as dangerous
As has been one of most infectious—
A virus that took its roots so firm,
Thanks our endemic indifference
To take a solid action at once,
This virus alas of racism!
______________________________________
Happenings |03.03.2020|
Topic: disease, virus, racism
আমি প্রায় হতাশ মানুষের মুর্খতা নিয়ে
কেননা আমার চারপাশে জাতিবিদ্বেষ সবখানে রয়েছে ছড়িয়ে
কিন্তু ঐভাবে লোকে যেমন বলে ডাহা অজ্ঞতায় রয়েছে বেহেশতী সঞ্জীবনী
ঠিক যেভাবে এক চুম্বন দিয়ে জুডাস করেছিল বেঈমানি।
কিছু কিছু লোক তাদের সম্মান পতাকায় তুলে ধরে
এবং তাদের জাতীয়তা নিয়ে বড়াই করে
তারা হামবড়া আর তারা তৈরি করে বিভাজন
এবং যারা ভিন্ন তাদের চেয়ে তাদের প্রতি করে বৈষম্য প্রদর্শন।
কিছু কিছু মানুষকে এখনো জাতপাত দিয়ে বিচার করা হয়
যেন এমন মানুষদের কখনোই কোন দেশ থাকা উচিত নয়
‘সমতা ও ন্যায্যতা'র ঐ মিথ্যা স্লোগান আমার পড়ছে মনে
‘সবার জন্য সততাও ন্যায্যতা' বলে কিছু নেই এ ভুবনে।
যদিও আমরা থাকি তথাকথিত এক গণতন্ত্রে
আমরা কখনো মুক্ত হব না জাতিবিদ্বেষ থেকে
তারা তোমাকে বিচার করে তুমি এসেছ কোত্থেকে তা এবং তোমার গায়ের বর্ণ দিয়ে
অনেকের কাছেই সমতা ও শ্রদ্ধা অর্জন করা মনে হয় অসম্ভব বলে।
মার্টিন লুথার কিং এর দিন গত হল কিছুদিন হল
তার নাম স্মরণে এল
তিনি যদি জাতিবিদ্বেষের বিরুদ্ধে লড়াই করতে না চাইতেন
তবে এই মহাত্মা আজো বেঁচে থাকতেন।
ক্ষমতার লাগাম টেনে ধরে আছে এমন বেশিরভাগ লোকের নাই আত্মিক চেতনা
এবং আমার চারপাশে ছড়িয়ে আছে জাতিবিদ্বেষের ঘটনা
এবং জাতিভেদ কেবল তাড়িয়ে নিয়ে চলে যুদ্ধ ও বিভাজনের দিকে
আর শুধু আঙুল দিয়ে দেখিয়ে দেয় কিছু মানুষের অজ্ঞতাকে।
অনুবাদ: আলম সৈয়দ।
Racism is around me everywhere
By Francis Duggan
Of human ignorance I am almost in despair
For racism is around me everywhere
But like they say sheer ignorance is bliss
Just like Judas betrayed Jesus with a kiss.
Some people carry their honour in a flag
And of their Nationality they brag
They feel superior and they differentiate
And against those who are different they discriminate.
So many people still judged by their race
For such there never ought to be a place
'A fair go' those untruthful words I do recall
There is no such a thing as a 'fair go for all'.
Though we live in a so called democracy
Of racism we never will be free
They judge you by where you come from and the colour of your skin
For many equality and respect seems impossible to win.
It's been awhile since the days of Martin Luther King
His name to it has a familiar ring
If against racism he did not choose to strive
Today the great man he would be alive.
So many holding the reins of power not spiritually aware
And racism is around me everywhere
And racism only leads to division and war
Just goes to show how ignorant some are.
There once was a young, male recruit,
he was smart rather tall, also cute.
At the first interview
he was told: 'It is true,
your credentials, they really compute.
But a test is still needed to know
if enforcement can give you a go.
Shoot five Abos today
and three beards as they pray
and a rabbit by means of crossbow.'
'I shall do, Captain, just as you say.
Right this moment I'll be on my way.
May I ask why the hare? '
'Well, your question is fair
you can start in your job straightaway.'
Note: Huge strides have been made in Australian society to overcome racism. Huge strides are needed still.
Yes tell me it is not called the third world!
It is called the developing world? Developing?
Yes tell me it is not rich people exploiting the poor!
It is the system and multinational corporations?
People would never do such things deliberately!
News flash, some people not only would, they are?
To poor people struggling inside a third world.
Rich people can symbolize oppression slavery.
Rich people at best may be just rich boss pricks.
It does not amatta, what acolour, a skin is...
when it isa youa, who isa starving, toa slowa death!
When it isa youa, whoisa nota gota, fullie stomach!
It does not matter what colour a skin is...
When the people exploiting you are all the same.
When the people exploiting you are all rich pricks.
Of course children under five starving to death...
do so without ever experiencing the need to learn...
the meaning, of such words terms; their experiences differ...
Poor third world people, dying of starvation wages...
when lucky enough, to get any kind, of work at all.
Or being sweat shop worked, to a dropp dead early grave...
don’t usually much care, who is classified as super rich.
Or what prejudice exists, between the boss mega rich.
Arguments and equations
demanding colour equality.
Tend to lose ground and relevance
quickly, for the dying and the dead.
Questions of race harmony
can best be resolved.
When the entire race of humanity
is fairly, clothed and fed.
For dedicated; chosen social reformers;
like Mahatma Gandhi and Doctor King.
True civilized; family brotherhood;
has evolved to protect the underdog.
Regardless of religion, race, colour;
or conceived social status or class.
To truly love and protect fellow human beings
is truly a wonderful beautiful thing.
True social reformers are not limited
or interested in more power to women,
gays, specific religious groups, ethnic
groups, or class stratum of society; if
this means greater power misdirected,
to exploit, any specific part, of now
always important, social stratification;
contemporary, gradually evolving, human
conditioning society. The elimination
of all exploitation and underclasses, is
also the final freedom curing, of power
crazed misguided souls, wasting human
unresourced potentiality. But to a few, a few
stinking, filthy rich, rich blobs, of supposed
humanity; it makes not an iota of difference,
when, their exploited, third world workers,
expire. After the grasped, exploitation of the bitter
husk, it matters not what becomes, of withering dust.
To be further downtrodden, no more; to hunger or
starve, no more; to be free at last, to be free at last.
To de Mr Big Rich Boss Man, all used up, time to get a new one!
After all dem gutters are full, plenty more, where dat came from!
It was Jesus who said, a rich man is a man,
who has enough food for each day,
and if you have two garments, give one to
your brother who lacking has none!
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (1869-1948)   was known as Mahatma, or ‘Great Soul’.  He was a fearless champion of the weak and oppressed and said of himself, “The only virtue I claim is truth and non-violence.”
Martin Luther King, Jr., (1926-1968) . A black clergyman and inspiring speaker influenced by the non-violence policy of Gandhi, who became a leader of the struggle for racial equality and civil rights in the United States from 1956 onwards.
In the Human World it does not belong
We do not need racism since it is so wrong
The racists in their ways are so very small
To have them amongst us a blight on us all.
Since red is the blood we are born with to bleed
The racists amongst us we surely don't need
The scourge of racism is a human disgrace
For it in the Human World there ought not to be a place.
Racism is the source of serious crimes against humanity
Without racists so much better off we all would be
The torch of hatred  of difference they set to flame
To have them amongst us is to all of our shame.
To war and to conflicts racism does lead
Without it the Human World would be better indeed
The racists amongst us to us all a put down
They never bring honour to their side of the town.
Weeding,
whispered the Great Spirit,
is plant racism.
Racism finds no home
in the heart
of an enlightened soul.
Many proclaim their faith
but few live their faith with every breathe breathed
to the core of their being
to depths
of not a judgemental;
but a compassionate soul.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Righteous habitation! !
Following after righteous laws;
Able to overcome and, to help others!
Without racism.
Instruct,
Teach,
Sheaf! !
Leaf,
To prosper;
Benevolence!
Muse,
To reach out,
With the truth!
Much needed;
Without hatred,
Without racism,
Without Racism.
The tree tops are Dead
and so are the Roots
It's the rain they Dread
also the Shoots
The rain is like Acid
it eats it all Away
should be more placid
would help in a big Way
But one Day the Trees will be Gone
It seams all the people do is Yawn
But when it is Black, Dark, and no Bark
We'll wish we were sitting in a Green Park
From true rain
Drought floats, beyond
The fire cloud,
To patiently stay,
Than end, with
Tingling lights.
A dark cloud of rain
drifted into my life
And for some time,
I felt good, happy...
I no longer felt lonely.
I thought life would go on happily
In one long, long stretch of time...
But when the cold, harsh
winds of change started blowing,
The cloud of rain
had to drift away...
Life is still going on
In one long, long stretch of time...
I am not lonely.
I can't say I am sad or unhappy.
But you have left a void
That would take me
a long, long time to fill.
I want to fall on you like rain
upon a wildflower
Opening new reason from you
Scaring all the old bees away from
Pollinating your bed
Scaring all the fake men off who
Can only stand the sun
So it’s just me and you in the
Meadow
The rabbits in the hole
The grasses are wet and beginning to bow
The forest is damp and sleepy
And in the meadow
I bend down and kiss your petals wetly
Falling all over you
Letting your pistil slip into my mouth
Sucking off your honey,
Almost plucking you
But not going so far
Just pulling you so that you can feel
Your roots leaving
To let you almost taste
My world in the sky
So afterwards you can go down
Believing
The words on my lips
When I fall on my knees for you
A flower in the rain.
One Chinese lantern,
forgotten when the lawn party
was spoiled by a summer downpour,
waves in the drizzly wind
from a nylon string.
Something sad in the air
comingles with the fragrance
of yellow jasmine, yes
yellow jasmine.
THE rain has ceased, and in my room
The sunshine pours an airy flood;
And on the church's dizzy vane
The ancient cross is bathed in blood.
From out the dripping ivy leaves,
Antiquely carven, gray and high,
A dormer, facing westward, looks
Upon the village like an eye.
And now it glimmers in the sun,
A globe of gold, a disk, a speck;
And in the belfry sits a dove
With purple ripples on her neck.
There trudges one to a merry-making
With sturdy swing,
On whom the rain comes down.
To fetch the saving medicament
Is another bent,
On whom the rain comes down.
One slowly drives his herd to the stall
Ere ill befall,
On whom the rain comes down.
This bears his missives of life and death
With quickening breath,
On whom the rain comes down.
One watches for signals of wreck or war
From the hill afar,
On whom the rain comes down.
No care if he gain a shelter or none,
Unhired moves on,
On whom the rain comes down.
And another knows nought of its chilling fall
Upon him aat all,
On whom the rain comes down.
October 1904
Open the window, and let the air
Freshly blow upon face and hair,
And fill the room, as it fills the night,
With the breath of the rain's sweet might.
Hark! the burthen, swift and prone!
And how the odorous limes are blown!
Stormy Love's abroad, and keeps
Hopeful coil for gentle sleeps.
Not a blink shall burn to-night
In my chamber, of sordid light;
Nought will I have, not a window-pane,
'Twixt me and the air and the great good rain,
Which ever shall sing me sharp lullabies;
And God's own darkness shall close mine eyes;
And I will sleep, with all things blest,
In the pure earth-shadow of natural rest.
Rain-days are funny
Funnier, rain-nights
The sky assumes
All grey, black and purple
Streaks of lightning
Brighten the sky's
Dark chambers...
As it rains outside
As rain alone pleases,
An hitherto unknown warmth
Spreads through my body.
I rush outside to cool myself
And lo, rain stops
As rain alone can, abruptly,
Callous to the burning insides
To settle for themselves
Rain-days are temperamental
Rain-nights, lonely and desolate...
(05 Aug 2011)
The April rain, the April rain,
Comes slanting down in fitful showers,
Then from the furrow shoots the grain,
And banks are fledged with nestling flowers;
And in grey shaw and woodland bowers
The cuckoo through the April rain
Calls once again.
The April sun, the April sun,
Glints through the rain in fitful splendour,
And in grey shaw and woodland dun
The little leaves spring forth and tender
Their infant hands, yet weak and slender,
For warmth towards the April sun,
One after one.
And between shower and shine hath birth
The rainbow's evanescent glory;
Heaven's light that breaks on mists of earth!
Frail symbol of our human story,
It flowers through showers where, looming hoary,
The rain-clouds flash with April mirth,
Like Life on earth.
the rain, it comes
down in so many ways
straight, slanted, hurried
or so slowly, lazily
it drizzles ever so slowly
- an old man trudging
through the lane -
throughout morn
until the pool is full
full, full, full with
my impatience to
visit nextdoor friend
for a round of noon football
rain April rain
it jumps in the garden
crystal upon crystal
to and fro
to and fro
down the big
yam leaves
Let the rain kiss you
Let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops
Let the rain sing you a lullaby
The rain makes still pools on the sidewalk
The rain makes running pools in the gutter
The rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at night
And I love the rain.
Suddenly, from all the green around you,
something-you don't know what-has disappeared;
you feel it creeping closer to the window,
in total silence. From the nearby wood
you hear the urgent whistling of a plover,
reminding you of someone's Saint Jerome:
so much solitude and passion come
from that one voice, whose fierce request the downpour
will grant. The walls, with their ancient portraits, glide
away from us, cautiously, as though
they weren't supposed to hear what we are saying.
And reflected on the faded tapestries now;
the chill, uncertain sunlight of those long
childhood hours when you were so afraid.
E knew it would rain, for all the morn
A spirit on slender ropes of mist
Was lowering its golden buckets down
Into the vapory amethyst.
Of marshes and swamps and dismal fens--
Scooping the dew that lay in the flowers,
Dipping the jewels out of the sea,
To sprinkle them over the land in showers.
We knew it would rain, for the poplars showed
The white of their leaves, the amber grain
Shrunk in the wind--and the lightning now
Is tangled in tremulous skeins of rain!
Sleep falls, with limpid drops of rain,
Upon the steep cliffs of the town.
Sleep falls; men are at peace again
While the small drops fall softly down.
The bright drops ring like bells of glass
Thinned by the wind, and lightly blown;
Sleep cannot fall on peaceful grass
So softly as it falls on stone.
Peace falls unheeded on the dead
Asleep; they have had deep peace to drink;
Upon a live man's bloody head
It falls most tenderly, I think.
Beloved, let us once more praise the rain.
Let us discover some new alphabet,
For this, the often praised; and be ourselves,
The rain, the chickweed, and the burdock leaf,
The green-white privet flower, the spotted stone,
And all that welcomes the rain; the sparrow too,—
Who watches with a hard eye from seclusion,
Beneath the elm-tree bough, till rain is done.
There is an oriole who, upside down,
Hangs at his nest, and flicks an orange wing,—
Under a tree as dead and still as lead;
There is a single leaf, in all this heaven
Of leaves, which rain has loosened from its twig:
The stem breaks, and it falls, but it is caught
Upon a sister leaf, and thus she hangs;
There is an acorn cup, beside a mushroom
Which catches three drops from the stooping cloud.
The timid bee goes back to the hive; the fly
Under the broad leaf of the hollyhock
Perpends stupid with cold; the raindark snail
Surveys the wet world from a watery stone...
And still the syllables of water whisper:
The wheel of cloud whirs slowly: while we wait
In the dark room; and in your heart I find
One silver raindrop,—on a hawthorn leaf,—
Orion in a cobweb, and the World.
When I'm lying awake, listening to rain
hammering on the roof,
the phrase comes back to me,
our code for 'Let's get out of here'.
We were huddled in the back of a van
with the lights, the videotape equipment
and the man with the rain machine.
'Why can't we use the regular rain?' you asked,
as rain hammered on the roof.
'That's God's rain', said someone.
'It doesn't show up on film.
We need Billy's rain for this one'.
When I find myself soaked to the skin, tired,
or merely bored with God's rain,
the phrase comes back to me.
I'd say it now if I thought you were listening.
Anonymous submission.
Different
Little different days
Mysteries
Along the way.
Another time
Without a rule,
Another guilty
Crowded school.
To remember life
Alone so free,
To be the captain
Of your ship,
Another quiet sea.
Another laughter
Without shame,
Another cleansing rain.
He’s written his rules
In invisible ink
She’s thirsty for answers
But can’t get a drink
She’s certain of nothing
And unsure of all
Like walking a tight rope
And waiting to fall
No courage to question
In case he withdraws
He might start to think
She’s sharpening her claws
She wants not to ask him
For what he can’t give her
A cup full of rain,
Won’t give you a river.
THEY sing their dearest songs--
He, she, all of them--yea,
Treble and tenor and bass.
And one to play;
With the candles mooning each face....
Ah, no; the years O!
How the sick leaves reel down in throngs!
They clear the creeping moss--
Elders and juniors--aye,
Making the pathways neat
And the garden gay;
And they build a shady seat....
Ah, no; the years, the years;
See, the white storm-birds wing across!
They are blithely breakfasting all--
Men and maidens--yea,
Under the summer tree,
With a glimpse of the bay,
While pet fowl come to the knee....
Ah, no; the years O!
And the rotten rose is ripped from the wall.
They change to a high new house,
He, she, all of them--aye,
Clocks and carpets and chairs
On the lawn all day,
And brightest things that are theirs....
Ah, no; the years, the years;
Down their carved names the raindrop plows.
Early summer rain--
houses facing the river,
two of them.
Translated by Robert Hass
What will suffice for a true-love knot? Even the rain?
But he has bought grief's lottery, bought even the rain.
"our glosses / wanting in this world" "Can you remember?"
Anyone! "when we thought / the poets taught" even the rain?
After we died--That was it!--God left us in the dark.
And as we forgot the dark, we forgot even the rain.
Drought was over. Where was I? Drinks were on the house.
For mixers, my love, you'd poured--what?--even the rain.
Of this pear-shaped orange's perfumed twist, I will say:
Extract Vermouth from the bergamot, even the rain.
How did the Enemy love you--with earth? air? and fire?
He held just one thing back till he got even: the rain.
This is God's site for a new house of executions?
You swear by the Bible, Despot, even the rain?
After the bones--those flowers--this was found in the urn:
The lost river, ashes from the ghat, even the rain.
What was I to prophesy if not the end of the world?
A salt pillar for the lonely lot, even the rain.
First winter rain--
even the monkey
seems to want a raincoat.
Translated by Robert Hass
Oh, Marcia,
I want your long blonde beauty
to be taught in high school,
so kids will learn that God
lives like music in the skin
and sounds like a sunshine harpsicord.
I want high school report cards
to look like this:
Let us sit by a hissing steam radiator a winter's day, gray wind pattering frozen raindrops on the window,
And let us talk about milk wagon drivers and grocery delivery boys.
Let us keep our feet in wool slippers and mix hot punches--and talk about mail carriers and
messenger boys slipping along the icy sidewalks.
Let us write of olden, golden days and hunters of the
Holy Grail and men called "knights" riding horses in the rain, in the cold frozen rain for ladies they loved.
A roustabout hunched on a coal wagon goes by, icicles drip on his hat rim, sheets of ice wrapping
the hunks of coal, the caravanserai a gray blur in slant of rain.
Let us nudge the steam radiator with our wool slippers and write poems of Launcelot, the hero, and
Roland, the hero, and all the olden golden men who rode horses in the rain.
The children of men have come to me,
They say to me
'Give us our word for the rain,
And so to the rain.'
The rain maker stands, betwixt
The faces of men and their retinue of wealth,
And the liberty at the heart of the rain.
But the great man of thought…
'-The rain sleeps, when it wills
Let it be, lest
Its restlessness grows
Mightier than my chest -
'-Let men mourn with the rain,
As does the rain…'
In spring rain
a pretty girl
yawning.
Translated by Robert Hass
When shall it again rain upon
this parched and thirsty land?
Will any come off divining
while our heart lay pining?
Shall we again glimpse
that crystal crown upon our king?
Come forth from yon chambers
we beseech thee, our liege.
~
Sitting for what seems hours
listening to the rain
I find myself hypnotized
by the puddle
forming at the bottom
of the downspout.
The air is cold
yet I don’t notice until
goosebumps cover
my arms.
Funny thing is,
I still feel warm.
I was noticing how
the rain poured out
of the spout so fast
yet as soon as it was free
it rested
in that puddle
content just to be free.
Is that how you feel?
Like that rain?
Struggling with such force
for your freedom?
Once you’ve reached
your  “”puddle””
will you relax
and stop struggling?
Is that all you’re looking for?
A little space away
from that confining spout?
The puddle looks so calm
just shining with the days reflections
mirroring my thoughts.
If I look away will that puddle
still be there tomorrow?
I don't like taking risks...
so I keep staring
hypnotized by the cool
air and the tiny bubbles
fighting their way to the surface.
I thought it would rain today
sky hanging low & threatening
but like a bully w/o balls
it merely blustered:
making idle threats
sky crying, 'Wolf! '
an empty politician's promise...
I was hoping for cold & wet
something wintry & seasonal at least
but had to settle for a monotonous grey
that covers Winter's sky a cold blanket
rarely broken by clear, piercing blue
Light so clean it hurts
to see naked trees
Naked truth...
What are we to do
when seasons run together a blur
so you have to check a calender
just to know what the season is...
weather as metaphor for mediocrity.
Tabloidized information corrupted
& fed by special interests
(the mysterious 'they')
when it is we who have abdicated,
given our power to the box
surrendered to pushers of mediocrity & fear
who deliver their products
on the evening news
brought to you by the latest disease...
Even weathermen try:
making any gust of wind
a matter of life & death:
disaster specials, tabloid storified
glorified fear:
'Watch tornadoes from the safety
of your very own boudoir! ! ! '
& all so we don't really have to feel
anything
thats remotely honest or real...
Where is Noah, now?
Who's building an ark?
Because if that sameness,
blandness & false sense of security
is ever replaced w/ winter's piercing light
we can go inside & reflect
on who we really are
on who we want to be...
So when fear mongers &
pushers of mediocrity call,
the promise of rain, of flooding
& destruction will not be
just an idle threat.
(Copyright 12/7/2005)
Like the touch of rain she was
On a man's flesh and hair and eyes
When the joy of walking thus
Has taken him by surprise:
With the love of the storm he burns,
He sings, he laughs, well I know how,
But forgets when he returns
As I shall not forget her 'Go now'.
Those two words shut a door
Between me and the blessed rain
That was never shut before
And will not open again.
A slight rain comes, bathed in dawn light.
I hear it among treetop leaves before mist
Arrives. Soon it sprinkles the soil and,
Windblown, follows clouds away. Deepened
Colors grace thatch homes for a moment.
Flocks and herds of things wild glisten
Faintly. Then the scent of musk opens across
Half a mountain -- and lingers on past noon.
When I wake up my sleepy head
I've got my trousers on in bed
I'm first at the breakfast table
hair a mess and clothes dishevelled
eat my cornflakes and fly
but always kiss my mum goodbye
so she'll tidy up my room
where all around the toys are strewn
Leave the door upon the latch
so I can sneak back in and snatch
the biscuits from the biscuit tin
an apple, pear or mandarin,
In my pocket squashed in half
is a Mars bar that will last
and keep me going through the day
so I can stay outside and play
Muddy wellies in the rain
playing marbles in a drain
games of football in the park
staying out till after dark
on my bike out for a run
with my mates I'll have some fun
knock on doors and run away
or writing down car number plates
Build a campfire in the woods
be a cowboy, Robin Hood
with a band of merry men
make a tree hut for a den
I was unique I thought one day
until I heard my father say
when I was young it was the same
muddy wellies in the rain.
Oh, gray and tender is the rain,
That drips, drips on the pane!
A hundred things come in the door,
The scent of herbs, the thought of yore.
I see the pool out in the grass,
A bit of broken glass;
The red flags running wet and straight,
Down to the little flapping gate.
Lombardy poplars tall and three,
Across the road I see;
There is no loveliness so plain
As a tall poplar in the rain.
But oh, the hundred things and more,
That come in at the door! --
The smack of mint, old joy, old pain,
Caught in the gray and tender rain.
885
Our little Kinsmen—after Rain
In plenty may be seen,
A Pink and Pulpy multitude
The tepid Ground upon.
A needless life, it seemed to me
Until a little Bird
As to a Hospitality
Advanced and breakfasted.
As I of He, so God of Me
I pondered, may have judged,
And left the little Angle Worm
With Modesties enlarged.
Wan white mists upon the sea,
East wind harping mournfully
All the sunken reefs along,
Wail and heart-break in its song,
But adown the placid bay
Fisher-folk keep holiday.
All the deeps beyond the bar
Call and murmur from afar,
'Plaining of a mighty woe
Where the great ships come and go,
But adown the harbor gray
Fisher-folk keep holiday.
When the cloudy heavens frown,
And the sweeping rain comes down,
Boats at anchorage must bide
In despite of time or tide;
Making merry as they may
Fisher-folk keep holiday.
Now is time for jest and song
All the idle shore along,
Now is time for wooing dear,
Maidens cannot choose but hear;
Daffing toil and care away
Fisher-folk keep holiday.
Oh, the fretted reefs may wail,
Every man has furled his sail!
Oh, the wind may moan in fear,
Every lad is with his dear!
Mirth and laughter have their way,
Fisher-folk keep holiday.
A ROBIN in the morning,
In the morning early,
Sang a song of warning,
"There'll be rain, there'll be rain."
Very,very clearly
From the orchard
Came the gentle horning,
"There'll be rain."
But the hasty farmer
Cut his hay down,
Did not heed the charmer
From the orchard,
And the mower's clatter
Ceased at noontide,
For with drip and spatter
Down came the rain.
Then the prophet robin
Hidden in the crab-tree
Railed upon the farmer,
"I told you so, I told you so."
As the rain grew stronger,
And his heart grew prouder,
Notes so full and slow
Coming blither, louder,
"I told you so, I told you so,"
"I told you so."
Well, I'm listening to the pitter-patter of the rain
Alone in the middle of the night
My ol'heart begins to feel the pain
Of missing you with all my might
But your not here to share my love
So I'll just face this pain alone...
And listen to the rain falling from above
And face the fact that you are gone
Rain falling from above...
Rain falling for my love...
Rain falling from the skies...
And rain falling from my eyes.
So I'm listening to the pitter-patter of the rain
And listening to how sad it sounds
The rain's only an indication of my pain
And eternal loneliness I've found.
Rain go away, Rain come here
Friday,19th July 2019
O, dear Lord!
spare with the mercy word
your sharpened sword
it has played havoc
our lives are cut short
with no other means to report
but only offer prayers
we want you to act soothsayers
the whole country is plundered
the lives of millions are shattered
half of the country is reeling under excessive rain
causing us a lot more agony and pain
millions have shifted
but no relief is gifted
no food and no shelter
we are real sufferers
some parts are witnessing draught
and caught
unaware of your fury
it is causing concern and worry
please, pardon us
for our sins
such kind of scene
oh God! we have never seen
spare us from your unkind eye
and try to mitigate
the sufferings
please accept our offerings
Hasmukh Mehta
Rain has fallen all the day.
O come among the laden trees:
The leaves lie thick upon the way
Of memories.
Staying a little by the way
Of memories shall we depart.
Come, my beloved, where I may
Speak to your heart.
How beautiful is the rain!
After the dust and heat,
In the broad and fiery street,
In the narrow lane,
How beautiful is the rain!
How it clatters along the roofs,
Like the tramp of hoofs
How it gushes and struggles out
From the throat of the overflowing spout!
Across the window-pane
It pours and pours;
And swift and wide,
With a muddy tide,
Like a river down the gutter roars
The rain, the welcome rain!
The sick man from his chamber looks
At the twisted brooks;
He can feel the cool
Breath of each little pool;
His fevered brain
Grows calm again,
And he breathes a blessing on the rain.
From the neighboring school
Come the boys,
With more than their wonted noise
And commotion;
And down the wet streets
Sail their mimic fleets,
Till the treacherous pool
Ingulfs them in its whirling
And turbulent ocean.
In the country, on every side,
Where far and wide,
Like a leopard's tawny and spotted hide,
Stretches the plain,
To the dry grass and the drier grain
How welcome is the rain!
In the furrowed land
The toilsome and patient oxen stand;
Lifting the yoke encumbered head,
With their dilated nostrils spread,
They silently inhale
The clover-scented gale,
And the vapors that arise
From the well-watered and smoking soil.
For this rest in the furrow after toil
Their large and lustrous eyes
Seem to thank the Lord,
More than man's spoken word.
Near at hand,
From under the sheltering trees,
The farmer sees
His pastures, and his fields of grain,
As they bend their tops
To the numberless beating drops
Of the incessant rain.
He counts it as no sin
That he sees therein
Only his own thrift and gain.
These, and far more than these,
The Poet sees!
He can behold
Aquarius old
Walking the fenceless fields of air;
And from each ample fold
Of the clouds about him rolled
Scattering everywhere
The showery rain,
As the farmer scatters his grain.
He can behold
Things manifold
That have not yet been wholly told,--
Have not been wholly sung nor said.
For his thought, that never stops,
Follows the water-drops
Down to the graves of the dead,
Down through chasms and gulfs profound,
To the dreary fountain-head
Of lakes and rivers under ground;
And sees them, when the rain is done,
On the bridge of colors seven
Climbing up once more to heaven,
Opposite the setting sun.
Thus the Seer,
With vision clear,
Sees forms appear and disappear,
In the perpetual round of strange,
Mysterious change
From birth to death, from death to birth,
From earth to heaven, from heaven to earth;
Till glimpses more sublime
Of things, unseen before,
Unto his wondering eyes reveal
The Universe, as an immeasurable wheel
Turning forevermore
In the rapid and rushing river of Time.
Comes from the dark cloud
That makes a noise loud
Rain, cold rain
Tinkles so softly
Like a slow moving train
Rain, happy rain
Enriched the dry land
With many a soft hand
Rain, shining rain
Like the clumps of water pearls
That comes again and again
Rain, heavy rain
Relieving the overpowering heat
Whether a hill or a plain
Rain, dumping rain
Filling the street with water
Turning it into the overflowing drain
Rain, drizzling rain
Making the children cheerful
Forgetting all their pain
Rain on me, my God
Rain on me.
Make me naked.
Pour your rain
on my body
in my soul
on and in my heart
and in my intellect.
I want to be wet
with You, my God.
Rain on me my God rain on me.
Now on the hill
The fitful wind is so still
That never a wimpling mist uplifts,
Nor a trembling leaf drop-laden stirs;
From the ancient firs
Aroma of balsam drifts,
And the silent places are filled
With elusive odors distilled
By the rain from asters empearled and frilled,
And a wild wet savor that dwells
Far adown in tawny fallows and bracken dells.
Then with a rush,
Breaking the beautiful hush
Where the only sound was the lisping, low
Converse of raindrops, or the dear sound
Close to the ground,
That grasses make when they grow,
Comes the wind in a gay,
Rollicking, turbulent way,
To winnow each bough and toss each spray,
Piping and whistling in glee
With the vibrant notes of a merry minstrelsy.
The friendly rain
Sings many a haunting strain,
Now of gladness and now of dole,
Anon of the glamor and the dream
That ever seem
To wait on a pilgrim soul;
Yea, we can hear
The grief of an elder year,
And laughter half-forgotten and dear;
In the wind and the rain we find
Fellowship meet for each change of mood or mind.
the vultures at the zoo
(all three of them)
sit very quietly in their
caged tree
and below
on the ground
are chunks of rotten meat.
the vultures are over-full.
our taxes have fed them
well.
we move on to the next
cage.
a man is in there
sitting on the ground
eating
his own shit.
i recognize him as
our former mailman.
his favorite expression
had been:
"have a beautiful day."
that day i did.
Rain passes, washing the face of the mountain.
Clouds come, the mountain's in a dream.
Clouds and rain come and go as they please.
Only the mountain, forever green, remains.
Beautiful river, down from the sky
Beauty, as the clouds do cry
The sacred bringer of all life
Water does calm all strife
Rain, quencher of the flame
Rain, Rain, I shout thy name.
Rain Rain, Beautiful rain.
a symphony orchestra.
Roads not yet glistening, rain slight,
Broken clouds darken after thinning away.
Where they drift, purple cliffs blacken.
And beyond -- white birds blaze in flight.
Sounds of cold-river rain grown familiar,
Autumn sun casts moist shadows. Below
Our brushwood gate, out to dry at the village
Mill: hulled rice, half-wet and fragrant.
Rain, midnight rain, nothing but the wild rain
On this bleak hut, and solitude, and me
Remembering again that I shall die
And neither hear the rain nor give it thanks
For washing me cleaner than I have been
Since I was born into this solitude.
Blessed are the dead that the rain rains upon:
But here I pray that none whom once I loved
Is dying to-night or lying still awake
Solitary, listening to the rain,
Either in pain or thus in sympathy
Helpless among the living and the dead,
Like a cold water among broken reeds,
Myriads of broken reeds all still and stiff,
Like me who have no love which this wild rain
Has not dissolved except the love of death,
If love it be towards what is perfect and
Cannot, the tempest tells me, disappoint.
Rain...Rain...
how sweet and lovely is a water from sky..
Rain..Rain..
it`s a wine of lovers...
Rain.. Rain..
it`s a lovers` pain...
Rain..Rain..
my misses and longing to you as a desret...
Rain..Rain..
aren`t you coming back again to me, , as a rain..
come back to me as a coming rain..
come to wash my soul with a waters` sky..
with your hands...
hug me to you...
my heart become sick from a sadness and pains..
Rain..Rain..
it been so long for waiting..
untill, i become addicted to your waiting and a patience..
Rain..Rain..
aren`t you coming back..
a rain already here..
please don`t let me alone with a rain...
Suddenly this defeat.
This rain.
The blues gone gray
And the browns gone gray
And yellow
A terrible amber.
In the cold streets
Your warm body.
In whatever room
Your warm body.
Among all the people
Your absence
The people who are always
Not you.
I have been easy with trees
Too long.
Too familiar with mountains.
Joy has been a habit.
Now
Suddenly
This rain.
Anonymous submission.
Sitting in the rain as it falls on my face,
Thinking about making love is a wondrous place.
As the rain falls down my chest,
To the place that you know best.
As the rain gets harder your strokes get
stronger,
Going deeper and deeper making the process longer.
Running your fingers through
my wet hair,
Sucking my breast as you
take me there.
As my moans get louder the
rain drowns me out,
It feels so good showing me
what your man hoods about.
As the rain keep coming so do
I,
Hitting it right as you give me
that natural high.
As the ran role down my check
so do a tear,
As you sexually take away my
fears.
As your lips touch mine so do
the rain,
Holding me tight giving me that
passionate pain.
As the rain slows down I
don’t want it to stop,
The rain is cool, but my
body is hot.
As the rain stop and the love
making finally ends,
I hope tomorrows forecast
say rain so we can do this again.
The rain is raining all around,
It falls on field and tree,
It rains on the umbrellas here,
And on the ships at sea.
Bid adieu to the hot waves
As the cold breeze have set in,
Bringing joy to our minds
As the rains have peeped in.
With the onset of rain
The scorching heat goes down the drain,
The sudden thunder n lightning
Is scary as if Rain God is threatening!
The clouds turn black & the rain drops come in bunch
Making you fully drench,
A soothing odour from the soaked mud,
Makes every flower come out of its bud.
Water water everywhere
The vehicles speed with a flash,
Kids dance in the muddled waters,
They find fun doing a 'splash splash'
The trees sway, the flowers smile,
The nature comes all alive,
The animals run hither tither for shelter,
The humans too run helter skelter!
Once the rain subsides,
Everyone comes out of their hide,
The sight of the rainbow in the clear blue sky
Is worth admiring and lifts our spirits high!
Rain Rain Come Again
Do no go to Spain
Let Little Johnny Play
Some another Day: -)
POEM IS HIDDEN. CANNOT BE READ WITHOUT THE PERMISSION OF THE AUTHOR
Rain go away, Rain come here
Friday,19th July 2019
O, dear Lord!
spare with the mercy word
your sharpened sword
it has played havoc
our lives are cut short
with no other means to report
but only offer prayers
we want you to act soothsayers
the whole country is plundered
the lives of millions are shattered
half of the country is reeling under excessive rain
causing us a lot more agony and pain
millions have shifted
but no relief is gifted
no food and no shelter
we are real sufferers
some parts are witnessing draught
and caught
unaware of your fury
it is causing concern and worry
please, pardon us
for our sins
such kind of scene
oh God! we have never seen
spare us from your unkind eye
and try to mitigate
the sufferings
please accept our offerings
Hasmukh Mehta
Rain, Rain! !
Fall in drops
On the parched earth
That is thirsty for years
And wait for your coming
With eager heart.
Rain, rain
Do not go away
Riding on the crest of clouds
Close your wings
And stay a while
Descend on green mountains
To touch the land
And fill the cracks
With your gift abundance.
Flow through the earth body
Like blood in vessels
Fill the ponds and rivers
Sweep the earth
With your impressions
Before you run back
To the swelling arms of sea
And ride again
On the crest of clouds
Flying away with winds
With your tapping songs.
Rain, Rain please pour on me
Rain, Rain please set me free
Rain, Rain don't let the sun shine through
Rain, Rain my heart is now a pit of goo
Rain, Rain blow the ocean breeze
Rain, Rain sway the forest trees.
Rain, Rain don't wash away
Rain, Rain I wish you could stay
Rain, Rain don't let the birds chirp or the children play.
Rain, Rain please stop time today.
Rain, Rain Do you understand my sorrow?
Rain, Rain please be here tomorrow
Rain, rain, fall today,
Wash away my debts to pay,
Cleanse me of my sins I pray,
Rain, rain, fall away.
Rain, rain, fall away,
Wash away the blood today,
Wake us from this dream I say,
Rain, rain, here to stay.
Rain, rain, here to stay,
Keep the sin of hate at bay,
Love is coming here to stay,
Rain, rain, fall today.
Raindrops release sweet musical notes
Pigeons coo from inside their cozy cotes
Swelling rivers play with tethered boats
Rain Rain Rain,
Up above from the skies
Youu come,
As drops of joy
As drops of sorrow
As a shower of blessing from the heavens.
Rain Rain Rain,
Pitter patter pitter patter
on the window panes,
thunder and lightning fill up the skies
creating an orchestral symphony.
Rain Rain Rain,
With wind, sun and clouds,
seven colors you bring together
and joy in our hearts.
Rain Rain Rain
A miracle to a drought
A curse when in glut,
tiny silver crystals trickles from up above.
Rain, torrential rain lashing,
It ran down my neck making my collar
Damp and sticky drippy wet.
I cannot brush it aside or hide
From its attack for it is relentless.
It splashes around my feet
As I walk Clara around the lake.
The car seats will be wet again
From a summer, autumn and winter
Of relentless rain hammering down
As if the saturated earth depended on it.
Waterlogged fields and roofs: Rain dripping
From tree branches in big dollops
Exploding on the ground in front of me.
Even the robins and blackbirds lose,
Their voice, their orchestra remain silent.
Only the swans and moorhens with
Their waterproof jackets seem oblivious
And the seagulls mocking all around.
Rain on tinned roof
Rain on concrete
Rain soaking into sands
Rain on soft earth
Rain on metal road
Rain on windscreen
Rain falling into the sea
Rain in the river
Rain on flowers
Rain on leaves
Rain under trees
Rain on hills
Rain on my skin…
Each with its own unique raga
Reverberates across the sky
On to the earth…
05aug2010
10.30hrs
Rain, rain, rain
on pain's pane which is shuttered quite.
Though I would that my eye could spy
a cloudless starry night!
O well for the pilot wise
who thunderstorm avoids
by climbing through the skies –
who’s well insured by Lloyds!
O well for the submarine
in safety ‘neath the sea,
and O for the sun that has been,
what warmth it brought to me!
Alas for the climate change
which leaves us all at sea,
as the seasons, passing strange,
now topsy-turvy be!
Alas for the water course
when flash floods' water mark
marks records which, of course,
spoil carpet, garden, park!
Rain, rain, rain,
complaint I sing, the sight
brings sorrows flooding, sighs, -
O pity our pretty plight!
Rain, Rain, Rain, come again and again,
In the winter, in the summer and in spring,
Come with joy, fall with happiness and go with sorrow,
Rain, Rain, Rain come again and again.
Rain, Rain, Rain come to relive earth's pain,
Rain, Rain, Rain come to make nature happy,
Rain, Rain, Rain come to make livings happy,
Rain, Rain, Rain come again and again.
Rain, Rain, Rain don't go away,
Rain, Rain, Rain i hope you will stay,
Rain, Rain, Rain come again and again.
At first I couldn't get enough,
Now I just can't make it stop.
No rain in the desert that was rough,
Around here there's no dry spot.
It's been raining everyday,
Since I came back to my home.
The sunshine just can't seem to stay,
Hurricanes and storms, won't leave us alone.
I like the rain like everyone,
But it's been over done a bit.
We'll need a boat before we're done,
I'm about to throw a fit.
There's a fish just swimming by,
Waving his soggy fin at me.
All I could muster was a 'hi',
From my perch up in the tree.
727/10 Alton Texas
The great light cage has broken up in the air,
freeing, I think, about a million birds
whose wild ascending shadows will not be back,
and all the wires come falling down.
No cage, no frightening birds; the rain
is brightening now. The face is pale
that tried the puzzle of their prison
and solved it with an unexpected kiss,
whose freckled unsuspected hands alit.
Night,
and the yellow pleasure of candle-light....
old brown books and the kind, fine face of the clock
fogged in the veils of the fire - it's cuddling tock.
The cat,
greening her eyes on the flame-litten mat;
wickedly, wakeful she yawns at the rain
bending the roses over the pane,
and a bird in my heart begins to sing
over and over the same sweet thing--
Safe in the house with my boyhood's love
and our children asleep in the attic above.
Light rain-drops fall and wrinkle the sea,
Then vanish, and die utterly.
One would not know that rain-drops fell
If the round sea-wrinkles did not tell.
So souls come down and wrinkle life
And vanish in the flesh-sea strife.
One might not know that souls had place
Were't not for the wrinkles in life's face.
The storm came up so very quick
It couldn't have been quicker.
I should have brought my hat along,
I should have brought my slicker.
My hair is wet, my feet are wet,
I couldn't be much wetter.
I fell into a river once
But this is even better!
Spring rain
leaking through the roof
dripping from the wasps' nest.
Translated by Robert Hass
I thought I had forgotten,
But it all came back again
To-night with the first spring thunder
In a rush of rain.
I remembered a darkened doorway
Where we stood while the storm swept by,
Thunder gripping the earth
And lightning scrawled on the sky.
The passing motor busses swayed,
For the street was a river of rain,
Lashed into little golden waves
In the lamp light's stain.
With the wild spring rain and thunder
My heart was wild and gay;
Your eyes said more to me that night
Than your lips would ever say. . . .
I thought I had forgotten,
But it all came back again
To-night with the first spring thunder
In a rush of rain.
Still falls the Rain---
Dark as the world of man, black as our loss---
Blind as the nineteen hundred and forty nails
Upon the Cross.
Still falls the Rain
With a sound like the pulse of the heart that is changed to the hammer-beat
In the Potter's Field, and the sound of the impious feet
On the Tomb:
Still falls the Rain
In the Field of Blood where the small hopes breed and the human brain
Nurtures its greed, that worm with the brow of Cain.
Still falls the Rain
At the feet of the Starved Man hung upon the Cross.
Christ that each day, each night, nails there, have mercy on us---
On Dives and on Lazarus:
Under the Rain the sore and the gold are as one.
Still falls the Rain---
Still falls the Blood from the Starved Man's wounded Side:
He bears in His Heart all wounds,---those of the light that died,
The last faint spark
In the self-murdered heart, the wounds of the sad uncomprehending dark,
The wounds of the baited bear---
The blind and weeping bear whom the keepers beat
On his helpless flesh... the tears of the hunted hare.
Still falls the Rain---
Then--- O Ile leape up to my God: who pulles me doune---
See, see where Christ's blood streames in the firmament:
It flows from the Brow we nailed upon the tree
Deep to the dying, to the thirsting heart
That holds the fires of the world,---dark-smirched with pain
As Caesar's laurel crown.
Then sounds the voice of One who like the heart of man
Was once a child who among beasts has lain---
"Still do I love, still shed my innocent light, my Blood, for thee."
You ever had seen summer rain.
It comes like a wild reflection.
It goes like a bird fly away in a yawning sky.
I don’t want to let it go away.
Cause this is the most gorgeous rain I ever seen.
It keeps some memory inside of me.
Love strike like a rain drops in my heart.
I feel you in each raindrop.
It covers my face like a star casing the sky.
You ever had seen summer rain.
Sense the whisper of the rain.
So I can feel you in the summer rain.
I want to hold that thought.
It makes me passionate about you.
And it makes you smile like a cupid.
Come along with me now.
I want to enjoy this baffling rain.
That’s why I ask you?
You ever had seen summer rain.
I look above
Hot tears kiss my face
The sky is crying
Stars are out of sight
I look at you
Hopelessness falling from your eyes
And pain of losing is tattoed on your soul
You seem so preoccupied,
Not noticing me
I close my eyes
You'll never know what i feel
As we stand here crying
On a night of anguish and rain
The common rain had come again
Slanting and colorless, pale and anonymous,
Fainting falling in the first evening
Of the first perception of the actual fall,
The long and late light had slowly gathered up
A sooty wood of clouded sky, dim and distant more and
more
Until, at dusk, the very sense of selfhood waned,
A weakening nothing halted, diminished or denied or set
aside,
Neither tea, nor, after an hour, whiskey,
Ice and then a pleasant glow, a burning,
And the first leaping wood fire
Since a cold night in May, too long ago to be more than
Merely a cold and vivid memory.
Staring, empty, and without thought
Beyond the rising mists of the emotion of causeless
sadness,
How suddenly all consciousness leaped in spontaneous
gladness,
Knowing without thinking how the falling rain (outside, all
over)
In slow sustained consistent vibration all over outside
Tapping window, streaking roof,
running down runnel and drain
Waking a sense, once more, of all that lived outside of us,
Beyond emotion, for beyond the swollen
distorted shadows and lights
Of the toy town and the vanity fair
of waking consciousness!
The first rain reminds me
Of the rising summer dust.
The rain doesn't remember the rain of yesteryear.
A year is a trained beast with no memories.
Soon you will again wear your harnesses,
Beautiful and embroidered, to hold
Sheer stockings: you
Mare and harnesser in one body.
The white panic of soft flesh
In the panic of a sudden vision
Of ancient saints.
Translated from the Hebrew by Barbara and Benjamin Harshav
The fitful alternations of the rain,
When the chill wind, languid as with pain
Of its own heavy moisture, here and there
Drives through the gray and beamless atmosphere
The snow floats down upon us, mingled with rain...
It eddies around pale lilac lamps, and falls
Down golden-windowed walls.
We were all born of flesh, in a flare of pain,
We do not remember the red roots whence we rose,
But we know that we rose and walked, that after a while
We shall lie down again.
The snow floats down upon us, we turn, we turn,
Through gorges filled with light we sound and flow...
One is struck down and hurt, we crowd about him,
We bear him away, gaze after his listless body;
But whether he lives or dies we do not know.
One of us sings in the street, and we listen to him;
The words ring over us like vague bells of sorrow.
He sings of a house he lived in long ago.
It is strange; this house of dust was the house I lived in;
The house you lived in, the house that all of us know.
And coiling slowly about him, and laughing at him,
And throwing him pennies, we bear away
A mournful echo of other times and places,
And follow a dream... a dream that will not stay.
Down long broad flights of lamplit stairs we flow;
Noisy, in scattered waves, crowding and shouting;
In broken slow cascades.
The gardens extend before us...  We spread out swiftly;
Trees are above us, and darkness.  The canyon fades...
And we recall, with a gleaming stab of sadness,
Vaguely and incoherently, some dream
Of a world we came from, a world of sun-blue hills...
A black wood whispers around us, green eyes gleam;
Someone cries in the forest, and someone kills.
We flow to the east, to the white-lined shivering sea;
We reach to the west, where the whirling sun went down;
We close our eyes to music in bright cafes.
We diverge from clamorous streets to streets that are silent.
We loaf where the wind-spilled fountain plays.
And, growing tired, we turn aside at last,
Remember our secret selves, seek out our towers,
Lay weary hands on the banisters, and climb;
Climbing, each, to his little four-square dream
Of love or lust or beauty or death or crime.
THE latter rain, it falls in anxious haste
Upon the sun-dried fields and branches bare,
Loosening with searching drops the rigid waste
As if it would each root's lost strength repair;
But not a blade grows green as in the spring,
No swelling twig puts forth its thickening leaves;
The robins only mid the harvests sing
Pecking the grain that scatters from the sheaves;
The rain falls still--the fruit all ripened drops,
It pierces chestnut burr and walnut shell,
The furrowed fields disclose the yellow crops,
Each bursting pod of talents used can tell,
And all that once received the early rain
Declare to man it was not sent in vain.
The melancholy year is dead with rain.
Drop after drop on every branch pursues.
From far away beyond the drizzled flues
A twilight saddens to the window pane.
And dimly thro' the chambers of the brain,
From place to place and gently touching, moves
My one and irrecoverable love's
Dear and lost shape one other time again.
So in the last of autumn for a day
Summer or summer's memory returns.
So in a mountain desolation burns
Some rich belated flower, and with the gray
Sick weather, in the world of rotting ferns
From out the dreadful stones it dies away.
The moon still shines like that of ages old,
holding distant secrets like a tale yet to be told,
The sun in all its blinding beauty continues to lend us its rays,
enriching us with memories of those blisfull youthspent days.
The sea still massages the sandy golden shores,
passing from the sea gods ever open jaws.
The rain still travels from open blue skys,
showering the land as the sky god cries.
The wind whispers words of both hope and depair,
in hope it strokes the heads of ours so very fair,
The moon and the sun and the sea the rain and the wind,
do what they have done since time began,
yet Man, yes man has changed grown more hungry,
and in turn has robbed the earth of its enchanting energy,
Man has bombed, and slaughtered, and destroyed,
man has teased and tested and toyed.
And as i, a man am washed by the nightly visit of rain,
tears of fear fall in unsison with the cloudy droplets,
I was not meant for times like these,
i am a passer by a silent hooded journey man,
swaying in the comfort of the invisible breeze.
wanting and waiting with poetic patience,
to be taken away on the wings of timeless words.
(all my evening sessions
have been set to torches-
the day ends in recession
and what the night remembers
merely dissolves-
the taciturn migration of sunlight into shadow)
Sitting on the step after
kicking the moon down off his perch,
tapping my naked toes against the raw light.
Beethoven’s moonlight Sonata
drifts across the humid distance;
even now he plays feverishly for a deaf world.
Siren’s echo drives a fear through my head
and I am aware, once again, of
the pain that I dread.
The judge has spoken, the reaper comes to reap,
another life, another deathbed
takes up space in your master room-
and all the world with all its people
are sentenced to a fate
more certain in emptiness than in loveliness.
Tragedy strikes and you
light a candle in remembrance
of all the times you’ve loved and let go,
of all the times you've lost and held on-
all the tears you could never quite shed,
all the real love that came to you, one night
during an emotional storm and you refused
it shelter.
Serene moments
reflected in a puddle of tap water,
substance rejected by the sky because its flesh,
its face, wasn’t quite as beautiful and clean-
but one can always dream.
All-American girls, pig-tales and pony-braids
playing hopscotch on the wet cement,
the rules and guild-lines long since washed away,
burnt into memory, so vividly,
they carry on.
I remember you, vividly-
in my tossed about, broken down bed,
the posts all dirty and stained,
we gave them hell in the end.
I think now of you, one, loved,
I recall as all heartbeats and tummyfullofbutterflies do-
how you danced to the music
in the heavy hours of hurt,
how you betrayed defeat with a smile,
and in my dreams I always see you smiling...always smiling
I call him lover, though I’ve never experienced his breath,
face to face or seen the way he turns
the pages of his favorite book-
oh God! how I miss those eyes, passion and fury,
thunder and sunset held in contempt
by the weight of a thousand reasons
he can never weep-
maybe not man enough,
maybe not strong enough, maybe just too human.
I pray for rain, though it seems
the gardeners in heaven are picketing again-
Eden became a cemetery overnight,
we're the ones who tore it down,
destroyed the tapestry with our false beauty.
But tonight, I still believe that
there is someone out there, still listening-
So I kick the moon down from
his self proclaimed throne
and ask him to sing lovesick melodies
for all the wayward hearts beating solo.
Headline reads: 'Drought and suffering all over the world,
is it ever going to rain? Prophets say NO! '
Evening arrives promptly as men turn on street-lamps,
and God, the stars.
The rain and the wind, the wind and the rain --
They are with us like a disease:
They worry the heart, they work the brain,
As they shoulder and clutch at the shrieking pane,
And savage the helpless trees.
What does it profit a man to know
These tattered and tumbling skies
A million stately stars will show,
And the ruining grace of the after-glow
And the rush of the wild sunrise?
Ever the rain -- the rain and the wind!
Come, hunch with me over the fire,
Dream of the dreams that leered and grinned,
Ere the blood of the Year got chilled and thinned,
And the death came on desire!
Rain on the green grass,
And rain on the tree,
And rain on the house top,
But not on me!
Rain on the green grass,
And rain on the tree,
And rain on the house top,
But not on me!
All night the sound had
come back again,
and again falls
this quite, persistent rain.
What am I to myself
that must be remembered,
insisted upon
so often? Is it
that never the ease,
even the hardness,
of rain falling
will have for me
something other than this,
something not so insistent--
am I to be locked in this
final uneasiness.
Love, if you love me,
lie next to me.
Be for me, like rain,
the getting out
of the tiredness, the fatuousness, the semi-
lust of intentional indifference.
Be wet
with a decent happiness.
I hear leaves drinking rain;
I hear rich leaves on top
Giving the poor beneath
Drop after drop;
'Tis a sweet noise to hear
These green leaves drinking near.
And when the Sun comes out,
After this Rain shall stop,
A wondrous Light will fill
Each dark, round drop;
I hope the Sun shines bright;
'Twill be a lovely sight.
In that desolate land and lone,
Where the Big Horn and Yellowstone
Roar down their mountain path,
By their fires the Sioux Chiefs
Muttered their woes and griefs
And the menace of their wrath.
"Revenge!" cried Rain-in-the-Face,
"Revenue upon all the race
Of the White Chief with yellow hair!"
And the mountains dark and high
From their crags re-echoed the cry
Of his anger and despair.
In the meadow, spreading wide
By woodland and riverside
The Indian village stood;
All was silent as a dream,
Save the rushing a of the stream
And the blue-jay in the wood.
In his war paint and his beads,
Like a bison among the reeds,
In ambush the Sitting Bull
Lay with three thousand braves
Crouched in the clefts and caves,
Savage, unmerciful!
Into the fatal snare
The White Chief with yellow hair
And his three hundred men
Dashed headlong, sword in hand;
But of that gallant band
Not one returned again.
The sudden darkness of death
Overwhelmed them like the breath
And smoke of a furnace fire:
By the river's bank, and between
The rocks of the ravine,
They lay in their bloody attire.
But the foemen fled in the night,
And Rain-in-the-Face, in his flight
Uplifted high in air
As a ghastly trophy, bore
The brave heart, that beat no more,
Of the White Chief with yellow hair.
Whose was the right and the wrong?
Sing it, O funeral song,
With a voice that is full of tears,
And say that our broken faith
Wrought all this ruin and scathe,
In the Year of a Hundred Years.
There will come soft rain and the smell of the ground,
And swallows circling with their shimmering sound;
And frogs in the pools singing at night,
And wild plum trees in tremulous white;
Robins will wear their feathery fire,
Whistling their whims on a low fence-wire;
And not one will know of the war, not one
Will care at last when it is done.
Not one would mind, neither bird nor tree,
If mankind perished utterly;
And Spring herself, when she woke at dawn
Would scarcely know that we were gone.
My books I'd fain cast off, I cannot read,
'Twixt every page my thoughts go stray at large
Down in the meadow, where is richer feed,
And will not mind to hit their proper targe.
Plutarch was good, and so was Homer too,
Our Shakespeare's life were rich to live again,
What Plutarch read, that was not good nor true,
Nor Shakespeare's books, unless his books were men.
Here while I lie beneath this walnut bough,
What care I for the Greeks or for Troy town,
If juster battles are enacted now
Between the ants upon this hummock's crown?
Bid Homer wait till I the issue learn,
If red or black the gods will favor most,
Or yonder Ajax will the phalanx turn,
Struggling to heave some rock against the host.
Tell Shakespeare to attend some leisure hour,
For now I've business with this drop of dew,
And see you not, the clouds prepare a shower--
I'll meet him shortly when the sky is blue.
This bed of herd's grass and wild oats was spread
Last year with nicer skill than monarchs use.
A clover tuft is pillow for my head,
And violets quite overtop my shoes.
And now the cordial clouds have shut all in,
And gently swells the wind to say all's well;
The scattered drops are falling fast and thin,
Some in the pool, some in the flower-bell.
I am well drenched upon my bed of oats;
But see that globe come rolling down its stem,
Now like a lonely planet there it floats,
And now it sinks into my garment's hem.
Drip drip the trees for all the country round,
And richness rare distills from every bough;
The wind alone it is makes every sound,
Shaking down crystals on the leaves below.
For shame the sun will never show himself,
Who could not with his beams e'er melt me so;
My dripping locks--they would become an elf,
Who in a beaded coat does gayly go.
Thicker than rain-drops on November thorn.
I hear the tap . . . , tap . . . , tap . . . ,
of the tropical rain,
way down south . . .
further than the Rio Grande.
I can hear it, deep in my mind,
from way back
in my native land,
back where I was born . . .
when I was there.
And the tap . . . , tap . . . , tap . . . ,
fading away
through dancing droplets on the ground,
I will always hear,
until I arrive at the place,
where forevermore, I will abide.
An assortment of coloured umbrellas,
Fending off the rain,
I wonder if those, concealed underneath,
Have had lives disturbed by pain,
With the greyness of the sky above,
Their bodies crouching low,
What is the message that greets the eye
Where do all these 'bodies' go,
There's a feeling that they may be hiding
Not only from the rain,
But that is just a 'thought' of mine,
And I could be wrong - again!
©   Ernestine Northover
I love the rain,
The way it gracefully falls from the leaves,
To plop soundlessly on an unforgiving ground,
Soaking up the rain until it fades away.
How many times does it rain?
Are their many who know how I feel when it rains?
The rain takes the problems of today,
Which usually fills my day with an empty sorrow,
The pain and desolute despair wash away,
With the following of the rain.
Evanescently,
The rain will dry up,
As the sun’s rays pierce the sky.
They go into the air,
To come again another day.
Life returns to normal once more,
Continual breath with the force of change.
The rain washes away,
Sorrow, pain, and for a moment
It gives you the belief of innocence again.
So, here I am,
Underneath the pale,
Dropping leaves of an ancient willow tree.
Hoping anxiously for my rain to come.
Outside with the birds singing
The sun shining
The wind blowing
And the leaves rustling,
Time keeps going on,
As I await my rain to come.
call it the greenhouse effect or whatever
but it just doesn't rain like it used to.
I particularly remember the rains of the
depression era.
there wasn't any money but there was
plenty of rain.
it wouldn't rain for just a night or
a day,
it would RAIN for 7 days and 7
nights
and in Los Angeles the storm drains
weren't built to carry off taht much
water
and the rain came down THICK and
MEAN and
STEADY
and you HEARD it banging against
the roofs and into the ground
waterfalls of it came down
from roofs
and there was HAIL
big ROCKS OF ICE
bombing
exploding smashing into things
and the rain
just wouldn't
STOP
and all the roofs leaked-
dishpans,
cooking pots
were placed all about;
they dripped loudly
and had to be emptied
again and
again.
the rain came up over the street curbings,
across the lawns, climbed up the steps and
entered the houses.
there were mops and bathroom towels,
and the rain often came up through the
toilets:bubbling, brown, crazy,whirling,
and all the old cars stood in the streets,
cars that had problems starting on a
sunny day,
and the jobless men stood
looking out the windows
at the old machines dying
like living things out there.
the jobless men,
failures in a failing time
were imprisoned in their houses with their
wives and children
and their
pets.
the pets refused to go out
and left their waste in
strange places.
the jobless men went mad
confined with
their once beautiful wives.
there were terrible arguments
as notices of foreclosure
fell into the mailbox.
rain and hail, cans of beans,
bread without butter; fried
eggs, boiled eggs, poached
eggs; peanut butter
sandwiches, and an invisible
chicken in every pot.
my father, never a good man
at best, beat my mother
when it rained
as I threw myself
between them,
the legs, the knees, the
screams
until they
seperated.
'I'll kill you,' I screamed
at him. 'You hit her again
and I'll kill you! '
'Get that son-of-a-bitching
kid out of here! '
'no, Henry, you stay with
your mother! '
all the households were under
seige but I believe that ours
held more terror than the
average.
and at night
as we attempted to sleep
the rains still came down
and it was in bed
in the dark
watching the moon against
the scarred window
so bravely
holding out
most of the rain,
I thought of Noah and the
Ark
and I thought, it has come
again.
we all thought
that.
and then, at once, it would
stop.
and it always seemed to
stop
around 5 or 6 a.m.,
peaceful then,
but not an exact silence
because things continued to
drip
drip
drip
and there was no smog then
and by 8 a.m.
there was a
blazing yellow sunlight,
Van Gogh yellow-
crazy, blinding!
and then
the roof drains
relieved of the rush of
water
began to expand in the warmth:
PANG! PANG! PANG!
and everybody got up and looked outside
and there were all the lawns
still soaked
greener than green will ever
be
and there were birds
on the lawn
CHIRPING like mad,
they hadn't eaten decently
for 7 days and 7 nights
and they were weary of
berries
and
they waited as the worms
rose to the top,
half drowned worms.
the birds plucked them
up
and gobbled them
down; there were
blackbirds and sparrows.
the blackbirds tried to
drive the sparrows off
but the sparrows,
maddened with hunger,
smaller and quicker,
got their
due.
the men stood on their porches
smoking cigarettes,
now knowing
they'd have to go out
there
to look for that job
that probably wasn't
there, to start that car
that probably wouldn't
start.
and the once beautiful
wives
stood in their bathrooms
combing their hair,
applying makeup,
trying to put their world back
together again,
trying to forget that
awful sadness that
gripped them,
wondering what they could
fix for
breakfast.
and on the radio
we were told that
school was now
open.
and
soon
there I was
on the way to school,
massive puddles in the
street,
the sun like a new
world,
my parents back in that
house,
I arrived at my classroom
on time.
Mrs. Sorenson greeted us
with, 'we won't have our
usual recess, the grounds
are too wet.'
'AW! ' most of the boys
went.
'but we are going to do
something special at
recess,' she went on,
'and it will be
fun! '
well, we all wondered
what that would
be
and the two hour wait
seemed a long time
as Mrs.Sorenson
went about
teaching her
lessons.
I looked at the little
girls, they looked so
pretty and clean and
alert,
they sat still and
straight
and their hair was
beautiful
in the California
sunshine.
the the recess bells rang
and we all waited for the
fun.
then Mrs. Sorenson told us:
'now, what we are going to
do is we are going to tell
each other what we did
during the rainstorm!
we'll begin in the front row
and go right around!
now, Michael, you're first! ...'
well, we all began to tell
our stories, Michael began
and it went on and on,
and soon we realized that
we were all lying, not
exactly lying but mostly
lying and some of the boys
began to snicker and some
of the girls began to give
them dirty looks and
Mrs.Sorenson said,
'all right! I demand a
modicum of silence
here!
I am interested in what
you did
during the rainstorm
even if you
aren't! '
so we had to tell our
stories and they were
stories.
one girl said that
when the rainbow first
came
she saw God's face
at the end of it.
only she didn't say which end.
one boy said he stuck
his fishing pole
out the window
and caught a little
fish
and fed it to his
cat.
almost everybody told
a lie.
the truth was just
too awful and
embarassing to tell.
then the bell rang
and recess was
over.
'thank you,' said Mrs.
Sorenson, 'that was very
nice.
and tomorrow the grounds
will be dry
and we will put them
to use
again.'
most of the boys
cheered
and the little girls
sat very straight and
still,
looking so pretty and
clean and
alert,
their hair beautiful in a sunshine that
the world might never see
again.
and
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I feel the greatness of the nature
When the heat on earth vaporized
Then the clouds above makes the rain
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I see the farmers are full of cheers
When the rain water roll on the ground
Then all the barren lands turns to green
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I see the rain water runs down the mountains
When the rain water preserved in the built dam
Then there is no poverty on the land
When the rain drops fall on my head
Then I know the God sends it for us
When we do not go against the nature
Then the rain drops fall on the earth for ever
WHEN the sun comes after rain
And the bird is in the blue,
The girls go down the lane
Two by two.
When the sun comes after shadow
And the singing of the showers,
The girls go up the meadow,
Fair as flowers.
When the eve comes dusky red
And the moon succeeds the sun,
The girls go home to bed
One by one.
And when life draws to its even
And the day of man is past,
They shall all go home to heaven,
Home at last.
You come to me quiet as rain not yet fallen
Afraid of how you might fail yourself your
dress seven summers old is kept open
in memory of sex, smells warm, of boys,
and of the once long grass.
But we are colder now; we have not
Love’s first magic here. You come to me
Quiet as bulbs not yet broken
Out into sunlight.
The fear I see in your now lining face
Changes to puzzlement when my hands reach
For you as branches reach. Your dress
Does not fall easily, nor does your body
Sing of it won accord. What love added to
A common shape no longer seems a miracle.
You come to me with your age wrapped in excuses
And afraid of its silence.
Into the paradise our younger lives made of this bed and room
Has leaked the world and all its questioning
and now those shapes terrify us most
that remind us of our own. Easier now
to check longings and sentiment,
to pretend not to care overmuch,
you look out across the years, and you come to me
quiet as the last of our senses closing.
Rainbow of sunset
Glowing on edge of darkness
Then splashing below
written 3/23/08
Sun and humming birds
Mingle while rainbows arch high
Drawing eyes skyward
clouds and is already starting to rain
rainy morning
greyness behind my window
I welcome ungwillingly
rainy drops
are typing against the window still
after the rain glitter is dew
fleeting treasure of the nature
on vivid green
garden fresh
only white rose
my treasure into your hands
the day quickly is passing
tomorrow it is a time for sun
and our love
(for CO)
The word goes round Repins,
the murmur goes round Lorenzinis,
at Tattersalls, men look up from sheets of numbers,
the Stock Exchange scribblers forget the chalk in their hands
and men with bread in their pockets leave the Greek Club:
There's a fellow crying in Martin Place. They can't stop him.
The traffic in George Street is banked up for half a mile
and drained of motion. The crowds are edgy with talk
and more crowds come hurrying. Many run in the back streets
which minutes ago were busy main streets, pointing:
There's a fellow weeping down there. No one can stop him.
The man we surround, the man no one approaches
simply weeps, and does not cover it, weeps
not like a child, not like the wind, like a man
and does not declaim it, nor beat his breast, nor even
sob very loudly - yet the dignity of his weeping
holds us back from his space, the hollow he makes about him
in the midday light, in his pentagram of sorrow,
and uniforms back in the crowd who tried to seize him
stare out at him, and feel, with amazement, their minds
longing for tears as children for a rainbow.
Some will say, in the years to come, a halo
or force stood around him. There is no such thing.
Some will say they were shocked and would have stopped him
but they will not have been there. The fiercest manhood,
the toughest reserve, the slickest wit amongst us
trembles with silence, and burns with unexpected
judgements of peace. Some in the concourse scream
who thought themselves happy. Only the smallest children
and such as look out of Paradise come near him
and sit at his feet, with dogs and dusty pigeons.
Ridiculous, says a man near me, and stops
his mouth with his hands, as if it uttered vomit -
and I see a woman, shining, stretch her hand
and shake as she receives the gift of weeping;
as many as follow her also receive it
and many weep for sheer acceptance, and more
refuse to weep for fear of all acceptance,
but the weeping man, like the earth, requires nothing,
the man who weeps ignores us, and cries out
of his writhen face and ordinary body
not words, but grief, not messages, but sorrow,
hard as the earth, sheer, present as the sea -
and when he stops, he simply walks between us
mopping his face with the dignity of one
man who has wept, and now has finished weeping.
Evading believers, he hurries off down Pitt Street.
as a Child
I picked up shells
and kept in my manor
in secret holes
they were my desires
hidden from the public
and soon I forgot
and left them behind
when I grew up
and found new pearls
I neglected the shells
full of soiled soles
but, my mansion dented
and passions demented
my life filled with tides unmeant
The sun sinks golden o’er the sea
The stars begin to sparkle bright
Across the sand you walk with me
That wave enchanted summer night
What pleasures in your eyes did glow
Like tide and moon in ebb and flow
chorus
From hearts of fire to the coldest star
What kind of love do you hide?
From the broken people at the broken bar
What kind of love? – a rainbow inside!
Beauty of heart is truth I know
We are only ever what we feel
In life we reap just what we sow
We have to trust to make love real
With you I’m in Heaven above
We are only living when we’re in love
There’s a fire dancing on the river
A spirit sings and calls your name
It’s here and now, the soul’s forever
In your eyes I see the flame
O hold me darling till night goes by
Hold me sweet DARLING let me cry.
The golden sun sets o’er the sea
Across the sand you walk with me
The stars begin to fill the skies
You are the Heaven in my eyes
As silver waves dance too and fro
In the moon-tide we ebb and flow
chorus
From the hearts of fire to the coldest star
What kind of love do you hide?
From the broken people at the broken bar
What kind of love? – a rainbow inside!
‘Beauty of heart is truth’ I know
Let all the hurt inside you go
We are only what we feel
Honesty and trust will reveal
We’re only living when in love
Will you be my hand in glove?
There’s a fire dancing on the river
Here and now, the soul’s forever
A spirit sings and calls your name
In your eyes I see it’s flame
O hold me darling till night goes by
Hold me sweet DARLING let me cry.
A Rainbow is…
An undeniable natural beauty,
Appearing mysteriously,
Seven colors of grandeur rare.
Light touching droplets in the air,
From earthly showers or water spray,
Opposite the sun, observed at day.
Arrayed in brilliant colors glow,
Canvassed as a beauty bow;
Red, orange, yellow, green,
indigo, blue, violet, all are seen.
A sign of God's mercy we know,
Since earth beheld the first Rainbow.
Rainbows are
Amazingly
Indescribable!
Naturally
Beautiful!
Observably
Wonderful!
Not reproducible by mortal man,
Created by our Maker's hands;
As breathlessly we stare,
A masterpiece, none can compare.
More than treasured pots of gold,
All this and more in the Rainbow.
© Loyd C. Taylor
Leave Behind Drab-Disapproving Crowds
Run In  Rainbow-Mist, A Bright-Prism-Cloud
Where Iridescence Gleams Unbound
Sparkles, Head To Toe … Sky To Ground
Pssst (Listen) … One Place, Where One Is Found:
… In Sunshine and Sprinklers Going ‘Round! …
A groan still roars
In the private quarters
Of many slowly healing
Shattered hearts
Like the roar of a tempest
That could even dim
The evil spewing crashes
That tore down the proud symbol
Of American Success last autumn;
A dolorous cry restrained
But reveberates in a spasm
Of agony made worse in
The dead of night by
The poignant memories of
Loved ones' sudden demise,
A loss that only relentless
Prayers could help mend.
Far away, a Noah-styled rainbow
Crowns the sky; a heaven's
Promise to end pain and drain?
In earnest, we all pray
For a better tomorrow;
A world free from misunderstandigs,
Religious bigotry, riots,
Hypocritism, racism
And ruinous power struggles.
Has any civilisation ever
Really gained from these?
She's not the end of my rainbow
she's its beginning-
I am blinded by her colors-
her red, crimson, blood-red lips
which promise fire and burn
into me with the furious fury of red river flows
she gives in her passion eddies.
Her cheeks glow with that same tint
and floating high her aureola gleams
above violet eyes which stream
out and into deep my soul-
where our Rainbow Yellow lives.
Joy is surely the color yellow;
we are joined-participled,
framed by her tresses of similar hue.
Her orange is mellow light
and plunges down her dappled nape
to her nipples making them
orange-erect and wanting.
Her body blood at center now
is violet and indigo;
blood flow now beneath her skin
glows with these;
two hues blending to announce
the purple promises she makes
with her body-scape
arched high
rainbow-shaped
making our colors blend;
and now the semi-circle is reversed
to allow me into her deeper hues.
Outside the trees display green;
inside our rainbows sing
announcing
yet another new beginning.
I catch me then a rainbow each day,
marvel at it
lying in my bed
translucent.
Romance
to Bloom
let me wait
and watch out
When the Spring Rains;
it is
now in the sky
lustly curved
with stunning colours
just a minute
it whispers
a new tune of lies
and glues to heart
pining to see
the invisible sight
The embers
of Romance
lightens up
when the moist hearts
warmly rain
looks of Spring
full of perfumed wings
to suckle the nectar
to open up
the pot of potion
mesmerizing ocean
bodies vanish
leaving imprints
we see the lovers
kissing empty airs
seeing life images
like Rainbows
still printed
in transparent airs
Run after a rainbow
and catch it
put the rainbow
in your pocket
take it out and look at it.
When it rains
or when you are sad
change rain into snow
and sadness
into joy
with the rainbow you saved.
Rainbows are magic
if you believe
in yourself and God
Because God is all powerful
and you are really you.
All poems Copyright © 1996 Blanche Mary Columbo. All rights reserved.
Breath  when sheathed by the web of ebbs
I still remember the rainbow by the blue moon
Your ripples when slither by the resonance
When you flossed into the moon
by the rainbow when blurs
blood when turns to tears by the fire
yet the thunder crakes the earth elsewhere
love when falling ruefully across the dew
Red of the blood yet whirls fast in the heart
White when blemishes my god innate
Images delve deep into your dreams as blotted
when I embrace blue when unabashed
Death when conquered  by the dream
As you slowly melted to mingle into the waves
I keep on benign look to the mist when reflexed
yet I am never alone even if  lie lonely
by your reminiscence from the truth
as day when dies bereft of sun by the shadow
night when cries out for the moon when alone
yet deep dark night turns to the light
the scar unflappable when sparks in me
the outcry besotted may diffuse my quest
the mute flow of the silence touches you nearer
as you steeped in blue by the eyes in the evening
still your song in allegiance promises me of my love.
As the speckles of your whisper touche me ever
And your sparkled eyes rebound within eternal
If I could place a song in every rainbow
so it could strum its tune in colored melody.
After all the storm clouds rolled away in your life
It would play softly its tune for you from me.
Songs of joy and hope and of laughter
in bright colors, they'd take away all your worries and despair.
Accompanied by a thousand Angels, singing in the sky
they would be singing just for you
too know that God and I are there.
I am placing some words of love down on this paper
so that you know that I will always care.
That if your feelings are not where you would have them be today
There is more than one person, in your life that cares.
You are grown and so far away I can not hold you
to kiss and wipe away each tear, like when you were very small.
But when you look up at God's given colored rainbows
you'll remember colored melodies of my Love, are playing in them all.
A timid rainbow
falls from the sky in your eyes
so hesitantly
You came to me, in confidence,
calling my name, half-teasingly,
but you never said anything more.
You wanted me to hear you,
to know you were there,
but not to interfere.
I feel your kisses
and soft stoking on my forehead
under moonbeams
and I am no longer afraid.
The other day,
I found myself at the end of a rainbow
and I had to smile
because you always had your way of being right
and you always said the treasure would not consist of gold,
and the treasure was the rainbow.
(To my mother, who still manages to teach me lessons, long after her departure.)
At the end of the rainbow
lies our dream of reverie.
At the end of the rainbow
lies love’s destiny.
We walk through the world together
facing each day as it comes.
Smiling through the good ones
and frowning through the bad,
but always together
to face another dawn.
Forever always onward
through to the sunset of our days.
At the end of the rainbow in fable 'tis told
The Leprechaun he hides his bronze pot of gold
And if you should catch him hold on to him tight
Or he will quickly disappear out of your sight
If he escapes from you him you may never see again
Whilst firmly in your grasp your eyes on him must remain
Until his hidden fortune to you he will show
Hold on to him tightly do not leave him go,
He will say I will show you where my gold is hidden if you first set me free
But if you do that out of sight he will flee
Then his pot of gold on your own you won't find
In such an instance one has to be cruel to be kind
But 'twould seem 'tis only a mythological story that has often been told
That at rainbow's end the Leprechaun hides his pot of gold.
The rain drops fall
The sun comes out
And all thats left is a beautiful rainbow
People stop and stare
at the unmissable sight
All the colours
In seven neat rows
The clouds blurr
the rainbow does too
As it disappears
It fades and fades
Now it has gone
the noise returns
We'll have to wait
For the next time it rains
Chasing Rainbow
i am chasing rainbows, this indigo girl
hoping to find in the end
the dreams we used to share
in my heart, in my mind
my love for you will never die
until i find you waiting to be kissed
and the soulful eyes that says..
ahh.you are mine forever
A rainbow does not stay too long,
for everyone to see. So I hurry to
the end of it, to what awaits for me.
~
At the end of my rainbow, I believed
the story true. I'd find all the treasure
I could ever long for. Not gold, nor
jewels, but you!
~
I needed not, a pot of gold. It can't keep me
warm, when nights grow cold. I need
your love '' the only thing ''. 'Tis a treasure
that gold could never bring.
~
So hurry chase '' your  rainbow ''! Don't wait
til it' too late on on your next rainy day. The
happiness that you may seek, could quickly
fade away.
~
Now each time I see a rainbow arched across
the velvet skies. I think of you and our love so
true, as these colours pass mine eye's.
***************************************** ***********
~TJW~
I talked to Grammy yesterday
about a girl I know.
Her skin’s a different color
but I like her, even though
the other children tease her
and it makes her run away
because she looks so different
and they never let her play.
I think she looks just beautiful!
Her skin is chocolate brown.
She’s the nicest girl I’ve ever met
and it’s sad to see her frown.
Grammy held me on her lap
and told me she was proud.
She said that’s what’s important
and then my gram allowed
that children are life's rainbow,
black and yellow, red and white,
but the colors aren't what matter,
it's what's down deep inside.
I asked her if that’s what it means
when we say we’re colorblind.
She smiled and said it should mean that
in all hearts and in all minds.
It was childhood enchantment in the form of song
Which first awoke in me, the rainbow-lover
Entranced as ‘Dorothy’ sang of
Her wish to someday fly far over
She not understanding, as I now do,
That rainbows only exist from a limited point of view
(Or perhaps she might have chosen instead to hover)
Now so many sects of people
Seem resolute on claiming the rainbow
Exclusively for their separate cause to use
Some with reverent sighs, claming the rainbow as sign
Of solemn promise their God once set against the sky
While the gaiety of the rainbow hues
Are proudly waived as flag by some alternate crews
(Which fundamentalists rarely welcome as good news)
Some declare the rainbow an emblem of diversity
Yet should you query those at the University
Mere prismatic refraction of sunlight creates these views
Is the Rainbow simply a natural phenomenon?
Or somehow innately related to karma?
By what reason does it inspire such melodrama?
Having not the least desire to argue
I will never debate with others, or with you,
Regarding claiming as one's due, the rainbow in the sky
(Nor be persuaded by any proffered reason why)
One can create manmade rainbows in any zone
Though I much prefer to view
Those transient arches occasioning the sky
Each rainbow offers beauty of its own
A fleeting apparition which light alone
By transecting water droplets can supply
The rainbow’s color array is far from random
Displaying the light spectrum in proper tandem
And many an artist’s pallet draws therefrom
There is pleasing perfection in this order
Something nothing else in nature seems to border
Individual elements of lightwaves briefly unbound
That’s all the rainbow really ever needs to be
So in appreciating each and every one I see,
Henceforth the one properly claiming the rainbow – will be me.
R.ainbows in the sky reminders of you
A.lways feeling sheltered with the colours shining through
I.n my psyche you are here
N.ever gone and always near
B.ow down to the earth when the colours give their birth
O.ver the sky see the stripes flutter by
W.alking solitude inside the rainbow with you as my guide
S.omeone to shine over me
Leaving rainbows in my sleep
Only vision softly creeps
Venus slain to rise again
To share the light and quell the pain
Stardust shimmers like the past
Prisms shattered or everlast
Evasive whispers in my heart
Carves the image my soul imparts
Voices chime in dreams of glass
The future in the hour cast
Immortal as time's frailty
Unending with mortality
And in the dust the diamond makes
Within my heart reverie wakes
Alone you haunt, your essence chase
With the Sun the Moon is chaste
In the mind illusions dwell
Only the heart will clearly tell
Better my love to you before
Glows the morrow even more.
Words can fail like magnets not sticking to the fridge
and we all complain when the rent is due again.
Pay your bills and meet the obligations of
the world, never mind attending to the
payment of your soul.
The new voice is speaking, the new religion
has been announced. We are to celebrate
everything and tradition we are to renounce.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
We are to ignore the truth of the Gospel
for too many find that it offends.  We must
not have complaining and so we must merge
into one blend. Let the fires burn so
brightly as we burn away the words
we do not like. Dance a multi-coloured
dance of rainbow prisms and
inter-faith delusions.
Men should not sleep with women, for
that is not the way the new voices want
it to be. Instead they should seek male
partners and live in illusions of
conformity. We must not call a spade
a spade for in doing so we ignore
the new mindset.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
No need to wave flags for we must
not cause nationalism to exist. Only
one nation is right and that is the
propaganda we must believe. So we
watch our televsions and rejoice
in the latest American war.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
The parade has begun, and the marchers
have lined up like soliders in a drill.
The banners are ready ot wave, the
sound of music will soon flood the
streets. We will march for equality
and conform ourselves to a plastic
sheeted state of being.  Dance a
multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
And though the old ways will not die,
we will pretend they do not matter.
We will surrender ourselves to
immoral methods of existing. We
will speak only of politically correct
topics and we shall never disagree.
Dance a multi-coloured dance of rainbow
prisms and inter-faith delusions.
Tides have rushed in and taken
the time that was given to us, it
marched in and captured the very
epitomy of our souls, and left us
each in a well filled without the
slightest hint of a light, but like
our love, it withstood the fate
of its endless journey
Time has passed and once in
awhile, still, looking into not
away from, and still can see
beyond the the depth of our
tender hearts
Love is, was, and always will
be the number one for both of
us, but not to be loved together,
we have searched our lives and
each has given the other the
respect that we each deserve
and have made that dying vow
that will take us to our eternal
resting rainbow........
Of the rainbow
With all the colors
Our faces
Deceivingly shimmer
People black their hearts
Of night
The hope
Dimmer
Let’s look
At the sky
Still stars trustfully
Glimmer
(2009/6/4)
Gloomy rainbow...
Oh how the pain doesn't seize to grow...
Watching the days go by...
All I want to do is cry...
I let our love go...
even though I loved you so...
The days go slower everytime I'm reminded of you....
and all the things we used to do...
I plead to you to take me back...
But you say no because of my brutal attack...
That I had to your heart....
And it tore us appart....
I know I was a fool...
He made me think he was cool...
But now I know...
I love you so....
Please take me back to you...
and I hope my love shines through to you...
Looking now to the sky...
I wish I could forever die...
Unlike my love forever grows....
Oh what gloomy rainbows...
There is a Bow in the Sky
It has all the Colors inside
after every Rain that passes by
It's to let us know
One of God's Promises
The Rainbow
The Promise was made, To remind everyone
God would Never Flood the earth again
Like He did way back when
In Noah's Time
Just Look to the Sky, after each Rain
You'll Find, It's very Plain
It's to Show, How Powerful! God Really is! ! !
No one can make a Rainbow! Only God Almighty!
So, You know God is True, To Believe in Him,
Become Born-again, Through His Son, Jesus
To be with Him, In Eternity!
Because He lets you know, with even the show
Of God's Glorious Rainbow! ! !
Patricia Grace Nicholson
Colours of the earth
a pot of gold shining bright
Rainbows given birth.
Rainbow oh rainbow
You be in my dreams somehow
Golden spectrum brow
Rainbow, Rainbow
that was her nickname.
A name she had obtained,
for all the colors she'd appreciate.
Rainbow, Rainbow
that was her calling
to come out in style to show the worlds vibrant.
Rainbow, Rainbow
they laughed at her colors
said she was different
not normal like others.
Rainbow, Rainbow
they took her as a joke.
Just a mere girl looking for attention you know?
Rainbow, Rainbow
lover of rain
not a care in the world of what other people say.
Rainbow, Rainbow
she started too change
The world saw her brightly
now shes all black and grey.
Rainbow, Rainbow
why goes this way.
We've all secretly loved you.
So why not stay the same!
Rainbow, Rainbow
you bring us joy
You shed light too our day.
So go back to your ways
Rainbow, Rainbow
we appreciate your love!
We see differently now
so stay who you are.
Rainbow, Rainbow!
That's who I am.
A girl of 14
who is oddly at best.
Rainbow, Rainbow!
Everyone calls me that.
I'm just a use for you all
, but i don't mind that.
Rainbow, Rainbow
A mirror image I am.
A reflection of colors
that most people don't understand.
Rainbow, Rainbow
you called my name?
Why hello I'm here.
To shed light to your day
I hold the rainbow in my hands
And the colour of the rainbow
Is beautiful
Whenever it shines against the light
The dhuppatta of the Indian angel
Sprawling over there far in the ether
A half-saree rather arched providential
Seven coloured, a shamiana-splendour
Respectful Violet hopeful to be honoured
Narcotic Indigo dreaming to get refreshed
Lovely Blue calm to be loved
Fulcrum-Green effectively to be sensed
Self-confident Yellow preaching to be bold
Splendid Orange ever stepping to succeed
Vital Red brimming invigorated
The dhuppatta in ether plumes
Emoting the angel's attributes
And the angel is like the lotus
Sunken wedded in the sun's bliss
Her dhuppatta too, look, with her in sinks
I never touched a Rainbow.
But seen I quite a few...
I've never seen the Dawn's wet grass,
But heard I of its Dew.
A Love has never reached Me,
Yet sometimes Deserts rain.
Quick I'd be to drink of it:
As quick as Virgins wane.
She woos and coos with all her secrets
Leaving all in her universe own opened sacred
Through ages and eons slowly descending
Like mist being swaddled across the green.
When she traversed to her edges of age
Like silken spring showering over her glaze
Keeping her promises like saints and seers
Being curious of dives fast in the oceanic vast.
As she pounces the pear and peg of her day
Peeping through her thrumming womb of love
On the bathing platform of her living a day
Lovers and oomph appears impassioned.
When she jitters to be lost beyond her edge
Running  all her length half necked, half robed
Her mysteries move like rainbow in the moist sky
Caressing her newly born just crying soiled son.
There’s no such thing as a nice shade of brown
I don’t want a pastel or grey coloured crown
Purple, that’s more like it, and not in tones muted
Vivid orange and yellow is to what I’m much better suited
“Less is more! ” What feather brain uttered those words?
A sparrow or wren, those dull, drab speckled birds
I’m bright and I’m bold, decked out in every hue
Watch me, in Technicolor, it’s a spectacular view
Glimpse a flash of my feathers and you’ll gasp in amazement
Get used to it, pick your jaw off the pavement
I represent resplendently the entire colour spectrum
Take a photo, why not? The charge, there is none.
(Sydney, Australia - 2008)
all my life I lived in grey and black, blue and red.
black was depression
gray was numbness
blue was sadness
red was anger
those were the colors of my life
the emotions of my life
that was my rainbow
I went from one to another a back
everyday I would bounce
back and fourth from one color to another
I did not know of any other colors
I did not know there was any other colors
I thought it was normal
but now I know it wasn't
it was far from normal
I should have known
I should have realized
that everyone was happy
but I never knew of happiness
I didn't think it existed
but now I know
for my rainbow has grown
I now have more colors
yellow for joy
pink for love
green for happiness
for now I know
that other colors exists
that other emotions exists
I still have my old colors
But the are not alone
And not that strong
Because I have other colors
Other emotions to balance them
my rainbow has changed
for it has faded
for now it just many shades of grey
some darker
some lighter
so worse that others
for I shut down my emotions yesterday
so that those who hurt be would not see me cry
but now I can not seem to turn them on again
it is as if my emotions are lost
all expect for pain
the pain never went away
that I can hide
bury within
but where have all the colors gone
will it ever return
so will I stay in a state of gray
for it is  no longer a rainbow
but a grey scale
I have a Rainbow Garden
For inside of it you’ll see
Every color you would find
What a rainbow ought to be
The blue is for Forget-me-knots
Yellow for Daffodils
Red is for my gladiolas
My flowers are such a thrill
Green creates the many leaves
Of my Rainbow Garden too
I get such peacefulness
I would love to show it to you
My roses, oh I have many
My palette of color shades
I must enjoy them daily
For the time for them will fade
So if you’re feeling weary
And you don’t know what to do
Plant flowers of all colors
And have a Rainbow Garden too!
Ah...fallen woman
amongst brambles and nettles
both scratched & stung on your bum &...
your ahem...kiss...it better!
Oh, if that rainbow up there,
Spanning the sky past the hill,
Slenderly, tenderly fair
Shining with colours that thrill,
Oh, if that rainbow up there,
Just for a moment could reach
Through the wet slope of the air
Here where I stand on the beach!
Here where the waves wash the strand,
Swing itself lovingly low,
Let me catch fast with one hand,
Climb its frail rigging and go.
Climb its frail rigging and go?
Where is its haven of rest?
Out in the gleam and the glow
Of the blood-red waves of the West?
Or where the isles of the dawn
Lie on an amethyst sea,
Does it drift, pale and forlorn,
Ghost of the glory I see?
Is there, ah, is there a land
Such as the Icelanders say,
Or past the West's ruddy strand
Or on the edge of the day,
Some undiscovered clime
Seen through a cloud's sudden rift,
Where all the rainbows of Time
Slowly and silently drift?
Some happy port of a sea
Never a world's sail has made,
Where till the earth shadows flee
Never a rainbow may fade.
Oh, if that rainbow up there,
Just for a moment would reach,
Through the wet slope of the air
Here where I stand on the beach.
Here where the waves wash the strand
Swing itself lovingly low,
Let me catch fast with one hand,
Climb its frail rigging and go!
194
On this long storm the Rainbow rose—
On this late Morn—the Sun—
The clouds—like listless Elephants—
Horizons—straggled down—
The Birds rose smiling, in their nests—
The gales—indeed—were done—
Alas, how heedless were the eyes—
On whom the summer shone!
The quiet nonchalance of death—
No Daybreak—can bestir—
The slow—Archangel's syllables
Must awaken her!
Over the rainbow,
a kaleidoscope of colors mingle.
Reflecting the morning sun.
Birds fly among it’s hues,
while raindrops dance the ballet
of spring, a minuet, till day is done.
Over the rainbow,
the sound of harpsichords play.
Embracing the radiance of angels
flying through each brilliant display.
A ray of sunshine takes precedence
as it points it’s glowing finger to the ground.
Voices resonate,  through iridescent view,
showering songs of beauty all around.
Over the rainbow,
the silhouette  of Jesus appears.
Escorted by angels hovering over him,
he flows through the air.
His arms extended as he gestures with his hand.
Come to me my children, come, yes you can.
The morning rays of the Sun cling
On the upper bow of the Rainbow
Emerge after a moment ‘s dusk
Brown Pelicans and Western Gulls
Fly beneath the lower bow
That touches the water
Send fishes into hiding
As I walk along the white beach
Looking at the sea, the blue waters
Dance its way towards the golden sand
Shy away from the smiling horizon
Once, in a jubilant second, vessels across,
Scream their hearts out,
Ignite the nature’s garland
The Princess of the Sea,
Colorful as Galaxies dust
Catches watchful eyes off-guard
The seven colors spectrum is the senses
Nourishes the need and desire
Like a prism, it passes through every heart
Leaving the lights of absolution
Windward and crystallize
Red, orange, yellow
Life and love bestows
Green, blue, indigo
Ships of love embargo
Engaged for passion
Violet
Rhymes like couplet
One kiss,
Over the rainbow
Breaches the distance
Between friendship
And love
Play with Rainbow, wear the Rainbow
Ride the Rainbow high and low
Spread the color of Rainbow wherever you go
Paint with Rainbow, create a magnificent show
Share Rainbow with neighbor, family and friend
Give the needy a helping hand, reach out and extend
Dance with Rainbow, sing with Rainbow
Let the Rainbow shine through
Rainbow comes from Sun Shine and rain seven colors true
It paints the sky with seven colors and dazzling hue
It bridges the Earth and the beyond for a short moment
Arched, end to end, never changes, same as past and present
I wonder if there is Rainbow in the other world
Where we go when we pass on
Is there day, night or dawn
What is a Rainbow, how it is born
I feel like talking
Telling everyone about you
About the love we have both found
And the rainbow across my heart
That is there for all eternity
I feel like walking
Under the bright moonlight
Feeling the warmth
Of your body close to mine
And the rainbow across my heart
There until the end of time
I feel like listening to the music
That fills the air all around me
Now that love has captured me
Leaving that rainbow across my heart
There for all eternity
31 March 2007
Life is like a Rainbow
Every colour gives us energy
Changes our mood
Converts energy to positive
When we actually need the most! !
Colours adds life to our living…
While driving home from my office
I saw the most beautiful
Vibrant Rainbow!
It was on my side
Almost moving with me.
I was passing under the arch
It was so beautiful
I was so crazy
I turned my face
On the other side of the sky,
To capture the beauty in my camera.
Oh! I lost it?
The Rainbow was gone
I was shocked and disappointed
I turn off my camera
And looked to my left…
There it was!
The beautiful streams of colour
Were vibrantly stretch across the sky.
I smiled
And thought
It would be sad if
The world has no Rainbow
Its truly an amazing site to see
Life just would not be the same
Without the colour of the Rainbow! !
I love RAINBOWS! !
RAINBOW CURLING
I swear and swear me when rainbow curling
In the premises of her love and life delight
When tears of joy searching the redemption
To quench the thirst of smiles imbecile
The mist of love infallible as I do all peer
Sizzling across the petals of rose fragrant
In the bondage yet unfazed and unflinching
Yet unmeasured  in all dimensions surmised
winds of fragrance carrying  message I do love
thrums me and my universe to rouse my anger
that trembles along the corridor of my time
tossing on colors of rainbow into realm ecstatic,
Amazing lady you..
like  you has never been..
like him has never seen..
and no one will know,
At night at the sea..
when there you will be..
in the wind you and who,
you will dance with the wind
when the start never end
with the waves both flow,
dropp me back to the rain
keep with you the Love's chain
then back me to the bow,
the amazing one are you...
water me and the buds.
teach the buds how to grow,
Your words like the touch,
your touch like the dew,
Keep on singing every day
toward you open the way
then the feeling let it glow,
keep on raising rate of beats
then the raising keep slow..
BROKEN HEARTS I TREAT..
n your breathing let me live
let me come, let me go..
let the sadness..me  to blow,
how the chance became dance..
how the arts of the parts
let me see and you show..
God CREATION God draw,
words from the heart
from the feeling i will sew..
....................................
The wondrous one are you.......
.
Hazy and misty sky turns (into)   bright
Sun shines faintly in the rain ere long
Lovely girl’s lovely eyes
Twinkle with amazement
Beholding the colorful rainbow in the sky
The swaying boughs and woods get in the way
Of the view of the pretty bow in the sky
Wishes the lovely sevenfold be watched
Amply out in near vicinity
Wishes the rain be suspended soon, she prays
Slumbers the rain as sudden
As her prayers are answered by her Lord
By leaps and bounds the little girl nips out
Of her confines joyfully to see her rainbow
But, Stands she still! Looking up the sky
And numb with shock! Give herself
Up to a feeling of utter despair
And she realizes unto
Her pretty rainbow is no more there and
It faded away with the rain.
May 28-2009 - Hawiyah - Saudi Arabia
(Jackson County, Ky)
We liked to go there
dropp down beside its cascading waters
peer into its collected coolness
sidle up to the edge of its lap
thinking of taking a leap
Seemed like no one ever came ––
but we knew –– that others too
stole to this place
drawn to lean over its lip and flirt
with its rainbow’s end
Our hearts still meld
in the rainbow there
in Jackson County.
-  Dec.3,2007
Morning breaks.
Shafts of rainbow's light
flood the stained windows
of last week's existence.
The radiance plays
iridescent games
in the shadows of my slumber,
forcing recognition
of a new beginning.
I peel back the shutters,
exposing the dim recesses
to the new day,
and wonder what may lie in store
at the end of that rainbow.
Rainbow up in the sky
Full of colors to make you smile
After the rain in sight
Red, orange, yellow
green, blue, indigo- violet
mystic vision arcs
Red, orange yellow
green blue indigo follow
graceful violet glows
Red orange yellow
green blue indigo follow
violet rainbow mists
Shy crescent appears
lifting happy spirits soar
listen to my wish
Lively prism light
enchanting rainbow delights
brightly dance then hides
Sunbow or rainbow
Heaven's mysteries parting
Iris's raiment
Painting in rainbows
fairies alight  gems dancing
upon the flora
Thin 'bow ribbon floats
colours capture bauble- beads
bubbles fly away
The waning Moon sets
cold ocean meets horizon
a rainbow shares sky
Peaceful lotus pond
two swans bow heads gracefully
frogs bask in 'bows end
A double rainbow
appears reflects faint image
imitates its light
Two rainbowed secret
paints reflected illusions
colours in reverse
Violet indigo
blue green yellow orange red
second 'bow brings awe
Unexpected scene
second 'bow riddle answered
shy mirrored likeness
First to disappear
the second rainbow lingers
grants a special wish
Lavender to pink
misty space between two arcs
colour magic spell
Blind or enlightened
Soul's rainbow fills the vessel
mind and body blessed
A moment in time
upon the cloudy climes shine
bring me more rainbows
Lucky is the one
who espies rainbow arches
wishes may come true
Rainbow guardian
spirit spray hovers over
cascading water
When rain dances and
the Sun  shines Earth  rejoices
misty rainbow's gift
Dreams, desires, wishes
granted in a million jewels
glittering rainbow
A rainbow's gift leaves
joyful laughter, thoughts and awe
mostly Nature's smile
Seven rays of light
herald the tempest's ending
a smiling sky shines
From moonstone coloured
misty clouds the  Sun refracts
rain drops upon Earth.
A walk through a 'bow
bestows blessings upon when
Soul's pearls awaken
Bond  seven  swirling
chakra discs root  raised  to crown
inner peace regained
Looking at rainbows
can mean different things and
shared by everyone
Rainy guardian
a 'bow to walk under hugs
opposite gender
Always look for rainbows
appearing opposite the
Sun's teasing visage
A rainbow omens
depending on local lore
early death or wealth
Preparing for rain
keeps it away but then the
rainbow disappears
In the East rainbow
shines then  pleasant will the next
day's afternoon be
A morning rainbow's
Westerly ride omens wet
cloudy days ahead
Rainbow to leeward
dampness goes away sailors
delight in Night's arc
Rainbow to windward
portends whole day foul sailors
heed weather warning
As the Irish say
a rainbow on Saturday
wet weather will stay
For those who are lost
to the living day tears cross
Rainbow Bridge Heaven
Airy Baby's Breath
gather a rainbow bouquet
Life's long lasting bloom
Softly glowing or
vibrantly showing proud Sky's
enchanting decor
Sigh poet dreamer
then listen to the rainbow's
awakening song
Believe the Rainbow's
magic touch upon lovers
dreamers and forlorn
Can a bird in flight
touch a rainbow and  lose a
wishgranting feather?
Fern and grass aglow
rainbow-hued droplets pearling
Dawn's golden music
Silent  'bow  aglow
sentinel collects wishes
then takes them away
A lonely crescent
hiding pastel evening shine
sighs across the sea
Long, long time ago
Rainbow appeared and promised
no end to this world
A peaceful peacock
perched amidst rainbow blooms
dwells in Paradise
Rainbows in motion
Nature's magical gift stirs
luminescent awe
Whatever joy brings
the elixir of life  or
high  expectations
Joyous  sight behold
unfolding drifting  graceful arc
heavenly colours
Misty promise made
sunny days ahead  storm's ending
I see ROY G  BIV
Rainbows inspire
set fire imagination
soul's journey unfolds
On earth I wonder
how the rainbow arc  bridges
Destiny's wishes
Under and over
the rainbow haunts dreamlike quest
Leprechaun's treasure
Soft pastel rainbow
briefly  meets the frozen rain
mountain snow glistens
Muse come dance with me
soft voice floats among the clouds
Your  rainbow crown shines
Across the rising
full Moon face a rainbow graced
rosy sunset clouds
Pour ethereal
shining droplets from the clouds
sunkissed spirits 'bow
Brushed by a rainbow
the angel of the winds touch
Heaven's tears of joy
Colourful dreamer
fading into blushing sky
I bid you good  day
Gods made me earths rainbow maker
I pour the colors from His paint cans.
He gives us all this beauty after a storm
colorful beauty across blue skies and green land.
He leaves the stars to another
to dust and polish them bright.
So that they adorn our evening skys
stars glistening in the heavens bright.
Now the blue in the sky and the clouds of white
are but anothers job you see.
They are blessings from our Lord above
for all God's children to enjoy their majesty.
I am God's rainbow maker
so look for me after the rain.
Each color will always be vivid
God's promise, He shall never flood earth again.
What wonderful colors surround us
As we enter the summer season
Tiny buds have opened up
And they have a very good reason
For the sun brings out lots of people
And also brilliant flowers
Just when they’re ready to wilt
Along come a few little showers
Yellow is perfect for Marigolds
Purple Dianthus smell ever so sweet
Lilies come out in all colors
They’re such a summertime treat
The smells in the air are delightful
Lifting up our spirits so nicely
Some have a honey sweet smell
And others are just a bit spicy
So enjoy nature’s perfection
This is the season that truly shines
For before you know it, folks
We’ll leave this nice weather behind!
Colors of
Rainbow
seven wonders
amazing
A few loves but only
shades of BLACK
(Poem in lighter fashion)
As the ruby roses blossom
In the inner field of my bosom,
Allow my potpourri of best wishes
Perfume you with celestial bliss;
Let the rainbow of joy arch on your face.
As the orange sun generously shining
To give you the brightest morning,
Hear the birds that I sent you to sing
My simplest and ordinary greeting
With prayers for more blessings.
Celebrate like a xanthous butterfly
Dancing with breath of boundless sky
As you blow the candles on the cake
Chocolate moist from heaven sweetly baked;
Garnished with colors of gladness on God's plate.
Emerald field of grasses kissed by the sun
Reminds me of you as your life expands
Growing up and working with effective hands.
I'm wishing you to enlarge your territory,
Stretch up your hands to reach the star of victory.
Sapphire ocean of life is getting more deep;
Inviting you to take an exciting dip
Just to have more zestful life to live.
As the countless waves bless the shore,
I'm praying for you to be happy more.
My pen keep jotting with indigo ink,
I close my eyes, come to my mind and think
Of seeing you with your angelic face
Filled with sweetness of heaven's kiss,
Bathing in the pool of timeless happiness.
May the purple cloud of God's bounty
Shower you with more days of felicity.
Oh Sherlyn, to the world show your cream,
Scintillate with the lit of your heart's flame,
Soon you will live with your glittering dream.
Seven colors of rainbow
Looks like a embow
Embow without a vow
But hearts says wow
By seeing colorful bow
Bow forms after rain
Rain hear means pain
Pain means a gain
Gain should not vain
Vain in colors of fain
Fain is good
But not food
To cross wood
It spills blood
Like a flood
Floods if you rest
In its colorful nest
Its a killing pest
So live your best
To clear its test
Its test of control
So make a enrol
Like tank full petrol
Build a firing role
To make life console
Raindrops sparkle any day
Look up the sky for a ray
You may find a rainbow
Enjoy the pleasant Nature's color show
First is Robust Red
Put some jam on your bread
Second is Opulent Orange
Time to have a glass of Tangy orange
Third is Yearning Yellow
Place your books in a row
Fourth is Gracious Green
It comes exactly in-between
Ask your friend 'how have you been? '
Fifth is Beautiful Blue
See  the vast sky hue
Sixth is Ingenious Indigo
Say 'See Ya' before you go
Seventh and last is Vibrant Voilet
Thank God! we didn't get wet
If you don't find a rainbow, don't be sad
Wear a smile, we all will be glad!
The stillness
After the storm
Comes into view
Multicolored promise
Loved-filled expressions
Of varied sentiments
Yet quite focus
Intimate panorama
Though seldom come
This love I feel
Like the rainbow
I dedicate this to you
You may not appreciate
the beauty of the colors
Of my words
Less this sincere heart
Still I will prevail
To stand proud
Till the time you realize
The love sign in the rainbow
I may not be perfect
As you see me covered
By the superficial hues
But it's where I exist
For as long as I breath
Rainbow of love stays
Come what may
It will be forever
Rainbow
I raised the elbow
I have seen the rainbow
It is the celebration of sky
My heart vibrates with joy
Rainbow happens on special moment
Busy life misses it in the speed movement
Waiting for rainbow,
In the raindrops Meadow,
Sky is not showing grace
Rainbow is not in trace
Rainbow with seven colors,
Appears to my beloved,
stays somewhere,
melts in the infinite sky!
Heart felts it’s gay
Rainbow is not mirage
It leaves image in my soul!
Colorful wedding band
From the proud sky
To the blushing earth
Rainbow Rainbow,
Where do you end,
With a pot of money at the end,
Wish it rains all the time,
So we can see those bright colours,
Shining in you.
I know as I look at you out from my window
Tomorrow you retreat back to your shadow
Today stripes of colors brighten my disco
Red, orange, green, blue, violet, and yellow
So rainbow, rainbow
Before you give the elbow
Take it nice and slow
Let your colors gaze at me and glow
Make the warm sunshine once again flow
Today you display your colorful cargo
With your yellow as bright as a meadow
You stand on your own curved beautifully solo
With colors I find so beautiful to swallow
So rainbow, rainbow
Before you give the elbow
Take it nice and slow
Gaze at me and glow
Let my sunshine flow
Copyright 2008 - Sylvia Chidi
I saw a rainbow silhouette from the sky
I know the reason and its purpose why
God in His infinite goodness and love
Wanted to give this to me from above
My life has its own ups and downs
Gazing up to  the sky, the rainbow silhouette covered me down
It's different colors, are colors of God's skin
Black, brown, yellow, red, white, everybody are His kin
I saw a rainbow silhouette again tonight
I can dream peacefully now and sleep tight.
What about you...? i hope so..
God bless you..
Through rainbow tears I see love's true colors
Shining bright amongst them above all others...
Red, Green, Yellow, violet and blue...
All these beautiful colors I now see in you.
Love is my pot of gold,
Forever within my grasp
All I need are open eyes
And a map to complete this task.
And the storm will come of this we know
And darkness soon calls the show
Around me a rainbow of tears have spent.
My pot of gold to you have went.
And miracle is the day I found
My rainbow tears scattered upon the ground
My heart forever now is glad
Leaving room for light to replace the sad.
And to the dearest most sacred spot
My rainbow tears your hand has caught.
In this bond we shall forever rest.
Two souls combined for the rainbow test.
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
If Rainbow Walker wonders how long?
Not long
Time now seems an eternity
but it is only seems that way
but you will live to be 89
and most of life is ahead
you have time.
Patience and endurance
are the lessons you have to learn now
because they will be what you need
when true love comes.
Unhappy now
the longer it stays
truly magnifys
happiness
when it finally comes;
because devotion
patience
and belief in self
are the stalwarts
you need
to make it happen
when the opportunity comes.
If I walk to the end of my rainbow
will there be a pot of gold?
Will rainbow travel be worth
the hassle?
If I succeed
then suppose
I find that I am not as worthy
as other Rainbow Walkers?
If I am not,
I'll be exposed
as fraudulent.
If I walk to the end of my rainbow
while I be happy?
Or just as sad
as I now am?
How do I know that Rainbow Walking
is worth it all?
My uncle used to say
that 'having dreams that you
or the world will be different at the
end of the rainbow
has a flaw.
After walking and succeeding
you'll still be there.
Rainbows don't glow
if you don't.'
Never understood
what he was talking about
till later on.
Now I really really like
the Rainbow in me
and no matter where I walk
it's aways there
and I realize
I am
my own
pot of gold.
And other people too
if you look close
at some of them
(not all of them)
are their own pot too.
Life is all about
spotting the pot of gold
in me
and in you.
After the rain, the drops from heaven,
Comes the rainbow, a ray from heaven,
Seven colours fly high together,
Lighting the wet sky with power.
Through the colours you can see,
Sparks of life deep within the breeze,
Each symbolizes a part of me,
Where it flows within at ease.
Radiant red,
The crimson flame within me,
Gives me the will to carry on,
The symbol of incomparable strength.
Blooming orange
A raging explosion,
Signifying my determination,
To take on any task given.
Sunny yellow,
Bright and humorous,
The element of joy and laughter,
Putting a smile on my face.
Natural green,
In connection with Mother Nature,
The arch of caring and love,
Brings out my inner affection.
Calming blue,
The colour of the mighty ocean,
Where it roars wild and free,
Shows me the way to freedom.
Sparkling indigo,
A soothing and welcome presence,
Helping me find my way,
With wisdom and wit.
Vivid violet,
So beautiful, so unreal,
Creating all my purple dreams,
Directs the road to my desires.
'The colours of the rainbow,
Though graceful, it is humble,
Always a sight to behold…
For it shows the colour of your soul.'
She was like a rainbow
A delight after a storm
Shimmering so elegantly
And vibrant against the backdrop of sky
Everyone gazing towards her magnificence
Delightful and dazzling like a summer bloom
But alas, gone too soon
For the arc of the rainbow
It slowly fades into the blue
Leaving us saddened, numb in the gloom.
She was like a rainbow
She shone so wonderfully, then
Faded and left us all behind.
Olivia, she will never be forgot.
Josie it´s been a long hard day
Down the road to where it´s at
I must have lost my way
When I got there they said I was too late
Now you´re the only one can get me straight
So won´t you sing me a rainbow Josie
Roll me a song
Just tonight make it right
Cause it´s been wrong for oh so long
There´s lots of shades of darkness, Josie
Deep inside a man
So sing me a rainbow if you can
The train I went to meet
Had come and gone
Seems like I spend all my time
Gettin´ off and gettin´ on
I sold my mind
And gave my dreams away
And tomorrow I´ll start lookin´
´Round for yesterday
But til then
Sing me a rainbow Josie
Roll me a song
Just tonight make it right
Cause it´s been wrong for oh so long
There´s lots of kinds of hunger Josie
You don´t understand
So sing me a rainbow if you can
If you can, If you can
Sing me a rainbow if you can.
64
Some Rainbow—coming from the Fair!
Some Vision of the World Cashmere—
I confidently see!
Or else a Peacock's purple Train
Feather by feather—on the plain
Fritters itself away!
The dreamy Butterflies bestir!
Lethargic pools resume the whir
Of last year's sundered tune!
From some old Fortress on the sun
Baronial Bees—march—one by one—
In murmuring platoon!
The Robins stand as thick today
As flakes of snow stood yesterday—
On fence—and Roof—and Twig!
The Orchis binds her feather on
For her old lover - Don the Sun!
Revisiting the Bog!
Without Commander! Countless! Still!
The Regiments of Wood and Hill
In bright detachment stand!
Behold! Whose Multitudes are these?
The children of whose turbaned seas—
Or what Circassian Land?
SPECKLES OF RAINBOW
time yet flies by the shadow
sun still strong by its swanky walks
swampy stream yet not desiccated by the fire
as i remember the last night by the passion
the dream still burns me in its cruised arms
and i am just half backed bone by the rays
scorching sun prides beneath the lamp post
night yet to come by the day when retires
shadow still burns bristling by the ashes
meadow when yells to dark clouds by the green
breeze yet not blown by feathers swing
cuckoo still in its nest by the hunger
yet your whispers tells me the woes by the hope
over the vale of tunes haunting the colored glow
would you not come back again by the purple blue
rain still in its wait by speckles of rainbow when desired
I can compare the beauty of my life in a rainbow
And I will laugh and day “oh”
‘Cause it’s perfect to have a comparison
Because my life is so colorful like the rainbow with reason
…like burning rays of RED…
My life has many gallons of strife
But I used to stand firm from it
…like an electrifying scar of ORANGE…
Even I’m living in recent time
But I can’t help myself looking at my back
…like an autumn blossom of YELLOW…
Fortune is not hard to seek
Sometimes, it hugs me and shows me the beauty of life
…like a glamorous nature of GREEN…
I was been abundant of love
Love from my family, friends and special one
…like a deceiving look of VIOLET…
Sometimes, I found myself stumble
And so hard to stand back and say “I’m okay”
…like horrifying aisle of INDIGO…
There are times that I feel like I’m drown
And there is no hand to help me
…like a silent string of BLUE…
When I feel like I’m alone
All I just did is to cry breathlessly
Bliss girdled me as I look at the rainbow in the sky
And I just want to fly high
To touch the colors and put it in my book
At the end of that rainbow, as a treasure, I will hide the book
The shepherd boy's tattered red kite entangles in the rainbow
And he cries while sitting on the burning earth like a motherless child.
He knows the rainbow is short-lived
And he repents of his poor kite where it transmigrates in the endless sky leaving the kith & kin?
A Cowboy, Neath A Rainbow
Rode The Range, Far and Free
Holding Lightning Reins, and A Lasso
Strung Around His Untamed Dreams
Riding On His Horse, named Bullseye-Shoot
A Big, Bay Thoroughbred
Galloped Long, Nudged by The Cowboy’s Boots
To Race, As Dark Clouds Fled …
… Away, As Each Hoof Struck The Ground
Sounding, Just Like Thunder!
The Cowboy and Horse, Were Rainbow-Bound
Both, A Romantic, Climatic-Color Wonder!
Flashing Across The Range
On A Silver Saddle and Same Kind of Spurs
The Cowboy’s Hat and Horse’s Tail and Mane
And Sunset … All Became A Rainbow-Blur …
As The Cowboy, Lassoed The Wind
So Fast, They Did Go!
So Fast, His Lariat Did Spin …
I Think He Caught His Rainbow…
… A Cowboy Neath A Rainbow
Rode The Range, Far and Free
Holding Lightning Reins and A Lasso
Strung Around His Untamed Dreams …
Once I saw a rainbow
Over the ocean blue
Encompassed by a shadow
Of every color and hue.
It was a double rainbow
Most beautiful to see
and underneath the rainbow
Were two sails upon the sea.
I think it was God's message
Quite old, and get still new
It takes both rain and sunshine
To make the lovely view.
As we go along life's highway
A lot of rain must fall.
But we can find the rainbow
When the sun shines over all.
So, if you feel discouraged
And don't know what to do
Just trust for God's own sunshine
To bring a rainbow over you.
Then on the twenty first
Then let the tangent
Showers of water in tungsten
The golden rainbow
The green cool of the fabric
There were three pillows and a cushion
Many of your toys
The weave was like silk on cashmere
The broken cup could not be repaired
The art of antiquity is vanished
It hung on to my fingers
It shall hang on to the mind's eye
Many years have come to an end
Where from you discovered
The twenty and one days
I once have had
Some touches of love
Did you have some premonitions
Islamabad
24/5/2010
THERE'S a fabulous story
Full of splendor and glory,
That Arabian legends transcends;
Of the wealth without measure,
The coffers of treasure,
At the place where the rainbow ends.
Oh, many have sought it,
And all would have bought it,
With the blood we so recklessly spend;
But none has uncovered,
The gold, nor discovered
The spot at the rainbow's end.
They have sought it in battle,
And e'en where the rattle
Of dice with man's blasphemy blends;
But howe'er persuasive,
It still proves evasive,
This place where the rainbow ends.
I own for my pleasure,
I yearn not for treasure,
Though gold has a power it lends;
And I have a notion,
To find without motion,
The place where the rainbow ends.
The pot may hold pottage,
The place be a cottage,
That a humble contentment defends,
Only joy fills its coffer,
But spite of the scoffer,
There's the place where the rainbow ends.
Where care shall be quiet,
And love shall run riot,
And I shall find wealth in my friends;
Then truce to the story,
Of riches and glory;
There's the place where the rainbow ends.
I cry, but the tears dont even stay by my side.
Sometimes I feel like I am all alone, and I have no help fighting of the cold.
But Lord I know you're here, what do I do to break this mold?
What do I have to hold, the memories, the use to be's, or the part of me I wish to be.
I thank you for the blessings on my life, thank you for a place to sleep at night.
Thank you for a family that cares, who tries to calm my fears.
Wait it is here, the warmth of the blessings on my life, the devil has lost his hold, I am no more cold.
And the tears flee so that I can see the rainbow after the storm.
You were there all along,
'Never will I forsake you, Never will I flee'
Christina
somewhere
in the sky
on a moist day
you may spy
a rainbow
hanging high
let that always
remind you
one shining
moment true
friendship's
promise renew
`
Today I saw a rainbow
with bright colors in the sky.
I couldn’t see its start or end,
just its middle, way up high.
Mom said that it’s God’s promise,
that the world will still go on,
and He always will forgive us
though sometimes we do wrong.
I guess I understand it
and I’m glad He thinks that way.
I just wish He’d paint His rainbows
up there every single day.
Gee, Great Grampa was an artist.
We have his paintings everywhere.
He died a long, long time ago.
Is he helping God up there?
That rainbow sure was pretty
and they mostly look the same,
but Great Grampa should tell God...
He should always sign His name.
97
The rainbow never tells me
That gust and storm are by,
Yet is she more convincing
Than Philosophy.
My flowers turn from Forums—
Yet eloquent declare
What Cato couldn't prove me
Except the birds were here!
Over the rainbow bluebirds scatter,
Nothing's there to really matter.
A shaft of light born of love,
From the womb of life
Pierces the axis of your being
Your home.
No need to climb that mountain,
No need for promised lands,
No need to climb that fence,
The shaft of light has told you,
You're sitting on a golden seat,
See,
Your Eden's.
Lying all around your feet.
In the face of the sun are great thunderbolts hurled,
And the storm-clouds have shut out its light;
But a Rainbow of Promise now shines on the world,
And the universe thrills at the sight.
Tis the flag of our Union, the red, white, and blue,
Our Star-spangled Banner-our pride;
Fair symbol of all that is noble and true,
Flung out over continents wide.
Flung out in its glory o'er land and o'er sea,
With a message from God in each star;
And a glorious promise of peace yet to be
In the fluttering folds of each bar.
A Rainbow of Promise, bright emblem of hope,
Fair flag of each cause that is just;
No longer in doubt or in darkness we grope-
In the Star-spangled Banner we trust.
After the tempest in the sky
How sweet yon rainbow to the eye!
Come, my Matilda, now while some
Few drops of rain are yet to come,
In this honeysuckle bower
Safely sheltered from the shower,
We may count the colours o'er.-
Seven there are, there are no more;
Each in each so finely blended,
Where they begin, or where are ended,
The finest eye can scarcely see.
A fixed thing it seems to be;
But, while we speak, see how it glides
Away, and now observe it hides
Half of its perfect arch-now we
Scarce any part of it can see.
What is colour? If I were
A natural philosopher,
I would tell you what does make
This meteor every colour take:
But an unlearned eye may view
Nature's rare sights, and love them too.
Whenever I a rainbow see,
Each precious tint is dear to me;
For every colour find I there,
Which flowers, which fields, which ladies wear:
My favourite green, the grass's hue,
And the fine deep violet-blue,
And the pretty pale blue-bell,
And the rose I love so well,
All the wondrous variations
Of the tulips, pinks, carnations,
This woodbine here both flower and leaf.
'Tis a truth that's past belief,
That every flower and every tree,
And every living thing we see,
Every face which we espy,
Every cheek and every eye,
In all their tints, in every shade,
Are from the rainbow's colours made.
I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.
Genesis ix. 13.
SOFT falls the mild, reviving shower
From April's changeful skies,
And rain-drops bend each trembling flower
They tinge with richer dyes.
Soon shall their genial influence call
A thousand buds to day,
Which, waiting but their balmy fall,
In hidden beauty lay.
E'en now full many a blossom's bell
With fragrance fills the shade;
And verdure clothes each grassy dell,
In brighter tints arrayed.
But mark! what arch of varied hue
From heaven to earth is bowed?
Haste, ere it vanish, haste to view
The Rainbow in the cloud.
How bright its glory! there behold
The emerald's verdant rays,
The topaz blends its hue of gold
With the deep ruby's blaze.
Yet not alone to charm thy sight
Was given the vision fair;?
Gaze on that arch of colored light,
And read God's mercy there.
It tells us that the mighty deep,
Fast by th' Eternal chained,
No more o'er earth's domains shall sweep,
Awful and unrestrained.
It tells that seasons, heat and cold,
Fixed by his sovereign will,
Shall, in their course, bid man behold
Seed-time and harvest still;
That still the flower shall deck the field,
When vernal zephyrs blow;
That still the vine its fruit will yield,
When autumn sun-beams glow.
Then, child of that fair earth! which yet
Smiles with each charm endowed,
Bless thou His name, whose mercy set
The Rainbow in the cloud!
The  rainbow appears in the blue sky after the rains,
It is a vista of hope in the dark and pains.
The rainbow comprises of seven colours i.e. vibgyor.
Each is significant in its own manner.
Violet signifies royalty(bravery and loftiness) .
Indigo underlines authenticity.
Blue highlights peace
Green the colour of vegetation and prosperity.
Yellow signifies brightness
Orange the colour of asceticism.
Red remarks bravery and temper.
Night follows the day,
making all cheerful and gay.
Darkness follows the light.
Encouraging all, to the evils fight.
Happiness follows the sorrows
Which none can lend or borrow.
Sometimes sun and sometimes rain
Buffeted all alone in the mighty ocean of
grievances and pain
When all the hopes dash the ground and arises
a feeling of low.
After the rains up above the sky shines the magical rainbow.
It is a lantern in the dark.
Its appearance is as sweet as the words of a lark.
Its colours are each of a different meaning
It is in disguise to us a blessing.
Moist, bright, and green, the landscape laughs around.
Full swell the woods; their every music wakes,
Mix'd in wild concert, with the warbling brooks
Increased, the distant bleatings of the hills,
And hollow lows responsive from the vales,
Whence, blending all, the sweeten'd zephyr springs.
Meantime, refracted from yon eastern cloud,
Bestriding earth, the grand ethereal bow
Shoots up immense; and every hue unfolds,
In fair proportion running from the red
To where the violet fades into the sky.
Here, awful Newton, the dissolving clouds
Form, fronting on the sun, thy showery prism;
And to the sage-instructed eye unfold
The various twine of light, by thee disclosed
From the white mingling maze. Not so the boy;
He wondering views the bright enchantment bend,
Delightful, o'er the radiant fields, and runs
To catch the falling glory; but amazed
Beholds th' amusive arch before him fly,
Then vanish quite away.
The rainbow of colors
So merry and bright
Each color has a purpose
Even black and white
The rainbow is so full
Of radiance and gleam
It sparkles and shines
Through every little beam
After a storm
A rainbow you'll see
With all the glaring colors
A rainbow there'll be
Then at the end
Your dream will come true
A pot of gold awaiting
All just for you
Watch the white dawn gleam,
To the thunder of hidden guns.
I hear the hot shells scream
Through skies as sweet as a dream
Where the silver dawn-break runs.
And stabbing of light
Scorches the virginal white.
But I feel in my being the old, high, sanctified thrill,
And I thank the gods that the dawn is beautiful still.
From death that hurtles by
I crouch in the trench day-long,
But up to a cloudless sky
From the ground where our dead men lie
A brown lark soars in song.
Through the tortured air,
Rent by the shrapnel's flare,
Over the troubleless dead he carols his fill,
And I thank the gods that the birds are beautiful still.
Where the parapet is low
And level with the eye
Poppies and cornflowers glow
And the corn sways to and fro
In a pattern against the sky.
The gold stalks hide
Bodies of men who died
Charging at dawn through the dew to be killed or to kill.
I thank the gods that the flowers are beautiful still.
When night falls dark we creep
In silence to our dead.
We dig a few feet deep
And leave them there to sleep -
But blood at night is red,
Yea, even at night,
And a dead man's face is white.
And I dry my hands, that are also trained to kill,
And I look at the stars - for the stars are beautiful still.
I love the rainbow with its shades of green and blue,
I love the way the rainbow tells itself to you.
I love the way the rainbow lights up a sunny sky,
I love the way the rainbow tells of truths that are a lie.
I love the rainbow with its every brightly coloured shade,
I love the way the rainbow lights up a sunny day.
let me fly....
Why should I have broken wings? ! ! ! !
My dreams appear there...
in the sky...
near the rainbow where birds sing...! ! !
let me fly...
dont stab, Now, the little girl inside me
with no mercy...
I dont wanna die...
let me fly, smile
help me to tear
that dark file...
and let me fly
high...
so so high...
till I reach that rainbow
and then die....
I hear you
and feel your touch
on the keyboard each night.
I am here for you
and understand that spirit
you bestow
with each view and visit
each encouragement
you bring me
with each read.
This time is short time
and you will soar away
from bad time
to good time
overcome each
hidden away hurt
each unrecognized
human trait you possess
because you are me
in my own early years;
your faith is; has endless depth;
give your self the patience
and the faith
and you will emerge the butterfly
and you will be fine
you will be alright.
My hand
extends
herewith
to your hand
and offers
my appreciation
of you
and who
you are
and
becoming.
Triumphal arch, that fill'st the sky
When storms prepare to part,
I ask not proud Philosophy
To teach me what thou art; -
Still seem; as to my childhood's sight,
A midway station given
For happy spirits to alight
Betwixt the earth and heaven.
Can all that Optics teach unfold
Thy form to please me so,
As when I dreamt of gems and gold
Hid in thy radiant bow?
When Science from Creation's face
Enchantment's veil withdraws,
What lovely visions yield their place
To cold material laws!
And yet, fair bow, no fabling dreams,
But words of the Most High,
Have told why first thy robe of beams
Was woven in the sky.
When o'er the green, undeluged earth
Heaven's covenant thou didst shine,
How came the world's gray fathers forth
To watch thy sacred sign!
And when its yellow luster smiled
O'er mountains yet untrod,
Each mother held aloft her child
To bless the bow of God.
Methinks, thy jubilee to keep,
The first-made anthem rang
On earth, delivered from the deep,
And the first poet sang.
Nor ever shall the Muse's eye
Unraptured greet thy beam;
Theme of primeval prophecy,
Be still the prophet's theme!
The earth to thee her incense yields,
The lark thy welcome sings,
When, glittering in the freshened fields,
The snowy mushroom springs.
How glorious is thy girdle, cast
O'er mountain, tower, and town,
Or mirrored in the ocean vast,
A thousand fathoms down!
As fresh in yon horizon dark,
As young thy beauties seem,
As when the eagle from the ark
First sported in thy beam:
For, faithful to its sacred page,
Heaven still rebuilds thy span;
Nor lets the type grow pale with age,
That first spoke peace to man.
Lord when I look at the Rainbow you have placed in sky so
blue, it reminds me that all your promises are true
Your Rainbow reminds me that those who believe on you
are few, yet you have called us your little Ewe
Lord when I look at the Rainbow I see it's hue, it reminds
me that your love for us true
Your Rainbow in sky so blue, reminds me to keep praying
through
Lord when I look at the Rainbow it reminds me of your
promise to all of your creatures some of whom are of
different features
Your Rainbow and it's many colors reminds me that it
represents some whom are called colored
Lord when I look at your Rainbow and see how it's colors
are bright, it reminds me to do what is right
Your Rainbow I have never seen at night, this reminds me
to stay in the light
Lord when I look at your Rainbow it reminds me of your grief
because of our unbelief
Your Rainbow have no pot of gold, but your wonderful story
of love it has told
Lord when I Look at your Rainbow it reminds that you
promised to never again destroy the World with a flood
Your Rainbow to me is a sign of your love it represents
your Son's life Blood
she dug a hole
planted some seeds
kept them watered
picked away the weeds
soon in time
they started to grow
to her surprise
she had a whole row
she loved her bushes
they grew beautiful and green
admired by all
for miles they could be seen
one day
she fell sick
no more water
no weeds were picked
when she didnt come anymore
the bushes knew
that something was wrong
but they knew what to do
they grew bigger and bigger
stretching for a mile
they had to find her
to just see her smile
one day they stopped growing
they reached this place
knew she was there
just couldnt see her face
one small flower grew
among the miles of green
one beautiful red rose
was to be seen
a symbol of their love
for which they had saved
one red rose
they placed upon her grave
chinese wedding
two red candles burn
though the night
wax sizzles,
drips, drips
with our red hot
passion for each other
drips, drips
fluidly down the bar
the whole night
drips, drips, with
each pause of
our desire
each hug of our
affirmation for
each other
drips, drips
with our thirst
for each other
drips, drips
and clings to
the bar, warm
as our bosoms
drips, drips
solidifying
the night into our
assurance
for each other
drips drips till
the morning
turning the night
into an ecstatic
tour de force,
a union crystallising in
a mass of bliss
resting quiet on
the base of two
exhaust candles
There you were a sight to behold,
quietly sleeping, in shimmering folds.
No heart to disturb your precious rest,
I left you lying there in a faded red dress.
Dream my darling dream as only you can
listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand
I’ll take a walk several blocks away,
When I return we’ll start our day.
beautiful morning, bright and clear,
a glimpse of your shadow mystically near.
Dream my darling dream as only you can
Listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand
Your body laid still, no breathing came.
Fell to my knees and called out your name.
You left me that morning in a faded red dress.
Dreams of a future never will be blessed.
Dream my darling dream as only you can
Listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand
Now all I have left are the sweet memories,
of a beautiful woman, who composed my heart.
I cry every night as my hands firmly press,
the ruffles so sheer, of that faded red dress.
Dream my darling dream as only you can
Listen to the song birds, hold them in your hand.
Did you ever see a barrel of wine
With the ruby red liquid trickling down?
Just the thought of the delicious taste
Brings a smile instead of a frown
This wonderful wine is stored carefully
You can almost taste it on your tongue
It's really tremendously exciting
To see what sweet grapes have become
But if you've made another choice
Well, sometimes it's kind of hard
But now you know and can plainly see
It's a treasure right from a vineyard!
I have bright red angry screams.
Not within the voice of me.
But in the cuts on my arms.
I cut and cut.
Now my scream is out and free.
My screams are nasty red cuts.
Angrier by the day.
Each cut is my
My bright red scream.
Every cut a new scream.
Screaming  louder and louder.
The bright red scream.
Sets me free
If not for long
Just for a while.
He was just a little kid
In a kid’s kind of world
Examining the places
Where the red dirt swirled
Hills and little trenches
To climb and investigate
Thoughts and visions
For a child to create
There’s no better place
For a youngster to enjoy
Than in the red dirt country
They don’t even need a toy
Just old-fashioned imagination
That all little children possess
Tucked into their little heads
Many things they can access
There’s nothing like watching
A child in a world of red dirt
Let’s imagine we’re a kid again
You know, it wouldn’t hurt!
Across the red sky two birds flying,
Flying with drooping wings.
Silent and solitary their ominous flight.
All day the triumphant sun with yellow banners
Warred and warred with the earth, and when she yielded
Stabbed her heart, gathered her blood in a chalice,
Spilling it over the evening sky.
When the dark plumaged birds go flying, flying,
Quiet lies the earth wrapt in her mournful shadow,
Her sightless eyes turned to the red sky
And the restlessly seeking birds.
74
A Lady red—amid the Hill
Her annual secret keeps!
A Lady white, within the Field
In placid Lily sleeps!
The tidy Breezes, with their Brooms—
Sweep vale—and hill—and tree!
Prithee, My pretty Housewives!
Who may expected be?
The Neighbors do not yet suspect!
The Woods exchange a smile!
Orchard, and Buttercup, and Bird—
In such a little while!
And yet, how still the Landscape stands!
How nonchalant the Hedge!
As if the "Resurrection"
Were nothing very strange!
Among the red guns,
In the hearts of soldiers
Running free blood
In the long, long campaign:
Dreams go on.
Among the leather saddles,
In the heads of soldiers
Heavy in the wracks and kills
Of all straight fighting:
Dreams go on.
Among the hot muzzles,
In the hands of soldiers
Brought from flesh-folds of women--
Soft amid the blood and crying--
In all your hearts and heads
Among the guns and saddles and muzzles:
Dreams,
Dreams go on,
Out of the dead on their backs,
Broken and no use any more:
Dreams of the way and the end go on.
Your lips are like a southern lily red,
Wet with the soft rain-kisses of the night,
In which the brown bee buries deep its head,
When still the dawn's a silver sea of light.
Your lips betray the secret of your soul,
The dark delicious essence that is you,
A mystery of life, the flaming goal
I seek through mazy pathways strange and new.
Your lips are the red symbol of a dream,
What visions of warm lilies they impart,
That line the green bank of a fair blue stream,
With butterflies and bees close to each heart!
Brown bees that murmur sounds of music rare,
That softly fall upon the langourous breeze,
Wafting them gently on the quiet air
Among untended avenues of trees.
O were I hovering, a bee, to probe
Deep down within your scented heart, fair flower,
Enfolded by your soft vermilion robe,
Amorous of sweets, for but one perfect hour!
You're in this dream of cotton plants.
You raise a hoe, swing, and the first weeds
Fall with a sigh. You take another step,
Chop, and the sigh comes again,
Until you yourself are breathing that way
With each step, a sigh that will follow you into town.
That's hours later. The sun is a red blister
Coming up in your palm. Your back is strong,
Young, not yet the broken chair
In an abandoned school of dry spiders.
Dust settles on your forehead, dirt
Smiles under each fingernail.
You chop, step, and by the end of the first row,
You can buy one splendid fish for wife
And three sons. Another row, another fish,
Until you have enough and move on to milk,
Bread, meat. Ten hours and the cupboards creak.
You can rest in the back yard under a tree.
Your hands twitch on your lap,
Not unlike the fish on a pier or the bottom
Of a boat. You drink iced tea. The minutes jerk
Like flies.
It's dusk, now night,
And the lights in your home are on.
That costs money, yellow light
In the kitchen. That's thirty steps,
You say to your hands,
Now shaped into binoculars.
You could raise them to your eyes:
You were a fool in school, now look at you.
You're a giant among cotton plants.
Now you see your oldest boy, also running.
Papa, he says, it's time to come in.
You pull him into your lap
And ask, What's forty times nine?
He knows as well as you, and you smile.
The wind makes peace with the trees,
The stars strike themselves in the dark.
You get up and walk with the sigh of cotton plants.
You go to sleep with a red sun on your palm,
The sore light you see when you first stir in bed.
your eyes shine like dawn sky
your smile a field of light grass
tiptoeing in the spring wind
your laughter the rich roar
of a  sleek shiny limousine
your walk a smart pedigree
german sherpherd  up for grab
your hair a stage of virtuoso ballet dancers
executing their pristine pose
ever since you wandered  into my world
gentle as the morning mist
my mind has turned  into a theatre
your every feature i refine for a dose of romance
my warm bed a sea of expectations
you could tell from how the blankets
fold and turn in the fashion of a red red rose
inspired by
A Red, Red Rose
-
Oh my luve is like a red, red rose,
That's newly sprung in June:
Oh my luve is like the melodie,
That's sweetly play'd in tune.
As fair art thou, my bonie lass,
So deep in luve am I;
And I will luve thee still, my dear,
Till a' the seas gang dry.
Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear,
And the rocks melt wi' the sun;
And I will luve thee still, my dear,
While the sands o' life shall run.
And fare thee weel, my only luve!
And fare thee weel a while!
And I will come again, my luve,
Tho' it were ten thousand mile!
O my Luve's like a red, red rose
That's newly sprung in June;
O my Luve's like the melodie
That's sweetly play'd in tune.
As fair art thou, my bonnie lass,
So deep in luve am I:
And I will luve thee still, my dear,
Till a' the seas gang dry:
Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear,
And the rocks melt wi' the sun:
I will luve thee still, my dear,
While the sands o' life shall run.
And fare thee well, my only Luve
And fare thee well, a while!
And I will come again, my Luve,
Tho' it were ten thousand mile.
Rest and look at this goddamned wheelbarrow. Whatever
It is. Dogs and crocodiles, sunlamps. Not
For their significance.
For their significant. For being human
The signs escape you. You, who aren't very bright
Are a signal for them. Not,
I mean, the dogs and crocodiles, sunlamps. Not
Their significance.
A single red rose
lays on a grave,
for someone buried there.
It spoke of love,
that would always remain strong,
even though the loved one was now gone.
It spoke of something lasting,
beyond our living days.
Tells the story about love
that never ever fades away.
The love that seeds devotion,
even after death.
That single red rose spoke to me,
of all the things, we cherish most,
and how much each of us.
Would like to have
that loving care,
with a single red rose for all to see and share.
14 June 2007
Staring at a single read rose, so much beauty
not as much to be wasted on someone as beautiful
each thorn a reminder, love can hurt
but each detailed petal a bounty of great beauty
take this rose
from my beloved fingers
never cover the red
for the beauty will then be hidden
from the world at which it came
never hide your beauty
for each day should it be shared with the world
prooving each rose
has the beauty of your smile
this single red, red rose
my single loving heart
take it as a token
of the love
we will forever share
Captive! Is there a hell to him like this?
A taunt more galling than the Huron's hiss?
He--proud and scornful, he--who laughed at law,
He--scion of the deadly Iroquois,
He--the bloodthirsty, he--the Mohawk chief,
He--who despises pain and sneers at grief,
Here in the hated Huron's vicious clutch,
That even captive he disdains to touch!
Captive! Butnever conquered; Mohawk brave
Stoops not to be to anyman a slave;
Least, to the puny tribe his soul abhors,
The tribe whose wigwams sprinkle Simcoe's shores.
With scowling brow he stands and courage high,
Watching with haughty and defiant eye
His captors, as they council o'er his fate,
Or strive his boldness to intimidate.
Then fling they unto him the choice;
"Wilt thou walk o'er the bed of fire that waits thee now--
Walk with uncovered feet upon the coals,
Until thou reach the ghostly Land of Souls,
And, with thy Mohawk death-song please our ear?
Or wilt thou with the women rest thee here?"
His eyes flash like an eagle's, and his hands
Clench at the insult. Like a god he stands.
"Prepare the fire!" he scornfully demands.
He knoweth not that this same jeering band
Will bite the dust--will lick the Mohawk's hand;
Will kneel and cower at the Mohawk's feet;
Will shrink when Mohawk war drums wildly beat.
HIs death will be avenged with hideous hate
By Iroquois, swift to annihilate
His vile detested captors, that now flaunt
Their war clubs in his face with sneer and taunt,
Not thinking, soon that reeeking, red, and raw,
Their scalps will deck the belts of Iroquois.
The path of coals outstretches, white with heat,
A forest fir's length--ready for his feet.
Unflinching as a rock he steps along
The burning mass, and sings his wild war song;
Sings, as he sang when once he used to roam
Throughout the forests of his southern home,
Where, down the Genesee, the water roars,
Where gentle Mohawk purls between its shores,
Songs, that of exploit and of prowess tell;
Songs of the Iroquois invincible.
Up the long trail of fire he boasting goes,
Dancing a war dance to defy his foes.
His flesh is scorched, his muscles burn and shrink.
But still he dances to death's awful brink.
The eagle plume that crests his haughty head
Will never droop until his heart be dead.
Slower and slower yet his footsep swings,
Wilder and wilder still his death-song rings,
Fiercer and fiercer thro' the forest bounds
His voice that leaps to Happier Hunting Grounds.
One savage yell--
Then loyal to his race,
He bends to death--butnever to disgrace.
When the king of Egypt,
Let the Israelites go,
God led them not straight
But a roundabout route thro'.
There was a short-cut road;
Yet, a circular way, God preferred,
As in the event of any fight,
They couldn't return to Egypt.
To keep them safe and alert,
He led them thro' the desert,
Trekking o'er the sand,
Towards the Red Sea end.
They were armed for battle,
Ready to fight tooth and nail.
They were very bold this time,
As the Lord was with them.
Joseph's body was in Egypt.
To fulfill his last request,
That his body be taken out,
Moses, with him, brought it.
During the day, as cloud,
God, in front, He led.
Likewise, He went as light,
And led them at night.
Thus, they travelled night and day,
Thro' the God-chosen pathway.
They reached the desert end,
And at Etham, they camped.
What was the picture in Egypt?
The king went in regret
For losing all the slaves,
Who served him for many years.
He took his armed forces
And pursued the Israelites.
He was nearing the camp-site,
With his army ready to fight.
To Moses, the Israelites said,
'Your advice, should we've heard?
Look, what you've done?
Didn't we tell this'll happen? '
'We preferred Egypt's graves,
And remain there as slaves,
Than die here in the desert,
And be thrown in wind and dust.'
Moses assured and said,
'Listen, don't be afraid.
Now, God is on our side.
See the miracle of the Lord.'
To Moses God said,
'Let the people go forward.
Take your stick and lift it.
O'er the sea, you hold it.'
What God said, Moses did.
The sea-water got divided.
They walked on dry ground
Thro' the path, newly found.
Till the last man had crossed,
And other side, they reached,
The sea-ground was open
And God's miracle was on.
With a wave of his stick,
Moses reversed the trick,
When the sea-water closed,
All the enemies were trapped.
The power of the Lord,
The Israelites then realized.
They developed faith in God
And in Moses, the servant of God.
At last, the Egyptians,
Learnt a bitter lesson,
And they had virtually seen,
What God's power had been
You know Ken Copeland, Ben Hinn, and Joyce Meyer,
Paula White, Eddie Long, and Creflo Dollar,
But do you recall the most tele-evangelist of all,
Jim Bakker the house hold evangelist,
Had a very shinny nose,
And if you ever saw it,
When he was crying,
You would ever say it glows.
All of the evangelists
Used to laugh and call him names,
They never let poor Bakker
Join in tax evasion games.
Ten one foggy audit day
Oral Roberts came to say,
Peter get your cooked books out tonight,
Join Bakker in the tax fraud fight. (see Observation Jimmy the Geek)
Then all the evangelists loved him,
And they shouted with glee,
Jimmy and Tammy Bakker,
You'll go down in history.
(11-6-2007)
As the years rolled past and his hair turned gray,
He never was lonely again,
For often he caught that fragrance so sweet
And knew she was still close to him.
Then, one evening, she came with arms outstretched
As she beckoned, "it's time, dear, to go."
He breathed his last breath and followed her,
Through the years he had loved her so.
When they found his cold body next morning
His face set in peaceful repose,
Someone said, "What's this?" and on the floor,
Lay the petals of a lovely red rose.
The Yangtze flows east
Washing away
A thousand ages of great men
West of the ramparts --
People say --
Are the fabled Red Cliffs of young Chou of the Three Kingdoms
Rebellious rocks pierce the sky
Frightening waves rip the bank
The backwash churns vast snowy swells --
River and mountains like a painting
how many heroes passed them, once ...
Think back to those years, Chou Yu --
Just married to the younger Chiao --
Brave, brilliant
With plumed fan, silk kerchief
Laughed and talked
While masts and oars vanished to flying ash and smoke!
I roam through ancient realms
Absurdly moved
Turn gray too soon --
A man's life passes like a dream --
Pour out a cup then, to the river, and the moon
Translation 2
The endless river eastward flows;
With its huge waves are gone all those
Gallant heroes of bygone years.
West of the ancient fortress years
Red Cliff where General Zhou Yu won his early fame
When the Three Kingdoms were in flame.
Jugged rocks tower in the air
And swashing waves beat on the air
Rolling up a thousand heaps of snow.
To match the hills and the river so fair,
How many heroes brave of yore
Made a great show!
Translation 3
The great river surges east,
Its waves have scoured away
Since time began all traces of heroic men.
The western side of the old fort
Was once, so people say,
Known as the Red Cliff of Zhou of the Three Kingdoms.
With piled-up rocks to stab the sky
And waves to shake them thunderously
Churning the frothy mass to mounds of snow,
It's like a masterpiece in paint.
Those ages hide how many a hero!
Think back to those old days;
that first year when Zhou Yu had just  married  the Young Qiao.
Then, what a hero he became!
With waving fan and silken cap
He talked and laughed at ease
While masts and oars were blotted out in smoke and flame!
My wits that stray to realms of old
Deserve the scorn of all who feel;
Years pass, and hair grows white so soon.
Though a man's life is like a dream,
One toast continues still -- the River and the Moon!
Is the Black man’s blood black,
Or the Black Crow’s blood black?
Is the White Man’s blood white,
Or the White Dove’s blood white?
Why it’s red, any one immaterial?
‘Cause God wants to be impartial
To treat all the creatures equal,
What a display of His creative marvel!
Red, blue, white or yellow
Violet, green, orange or indigo
How all flowers look so bright
When seen in one bunch tight?
The nature’s plural color scheme,
Doesn’t it free the eyes from boredom?
What an immeasurable thing of joy
It gives as a gift of the Almighty?
The color by morn, a flower drops
When by nightfall, out it withers.
The beauty of a Black or White
Fades away by age overnight.
Mind not the color of the skin
But the blood that’s in common.
Respect every God’s creation
That’ll lead the world to salvation.
i  swim in the blood red waves,
not noticing the monster deep within,
i float on the blood red waves,
while the monster comes closer,
I'm sinking in the blood red waves
Sometimes she walks through the village in her
little red dress
all absorbed in restraining herself,
and yet, despite herself, she seems to move
according to the rhythm of her life to come.
She runs a bit, hesitates, stops,
half-turns around...
and, all while dreaming, shakes her head
for or against.
Then she dances a few steps
that she invents and forgets,
no doubt finding out that life
moves on too fast.
It's not so much that she steps out
of the small body enclosing her,
but that all she carries in herself
frolics and ferments.
It's this dress that she'll remember
later in a sweet surrender;
when her whole life is full of risks,
the little red dress will always seem right.
Code Orange Code Red, today these warnings echo throughout our land,
But these warnings just focus our attention on the wickedness of man.
Look and see how we have let sin and immorality prosper in our land,
Should we not be more concerned about God's Righteous Uplifted Hand?
The fears from wars and rumors of wars are simply a sign of the end,
However, the extent of man's wickedness is indeed limited my friend.
Why have such fears of man who can only kill the body but do no more?
And fear not The Lord who can assign you to Eternal Hell forevermore.
Man continues to kill because of his depraved heart filled with sin,
But God must judge wickedness, because of His Righteousness within.
My friend, if you just humble your heart and fear God instead of man,
Through His Spirit He will open your eyes to His Loving Eternal Plan.
God's Will is for all to come to repentance and through Him be saved,
However, God must still judge those who remain wicked and depraved.
You can continue to fear man and have your heart filled with strife,
Or repent and accept Christ in your heart, and receive Eternal Life.
I don't fear any man, for at death I shall be present with The Lord,
With no fear of God, you'll live without Him, this you can't afford.
Life on this earth is quite brief, while Eternal Life is quite long,
So don't continue fearing man, only to find out you were wrong.
(Copyright © 03/2003)
Red is deep anger that never comes out
Red is believing, and then having doubt.
Red reeks of revenge, of suffering and hate.
Red is being thirsty and having to wait.
Red, in a painting, makes one hot and confused,
It’s the anger of crying when you feel you’ve been used.
Red is that voice, deep in your head,
It could keep you back, but pushes ahead.
It mocks you silently with a voice full of hate,
“You can’t do it, you are weak, and it is your fate.”
Red feels like fire, singeing your heart,
It’s wanting to be together, but having to part.
Red is running through desert and sun,
It’s needing a friend, but having none.
Red is the heart that’s been broken in two,
It’s hearing those lies, and wanting what’s true.
Jingle verse enjoy.  In reversed jest
our game is hid - no orchestra in song, -
no signature, as no fit, link, strung strong
and taut traced are, for few see game addressed.
The care of each theme's wording to the test
here is pulled sharper. Read each line. Along
a web admired, placed true, is set among
new net mix dear.  Note our name as none guessed.
Reach soul. Oh dare to free the thread expressed!
Over all sweet sound ends work to link, belong, -
bestirring can be.  If thought inbinding's wrong
its warp reread in fairness, shriven guest!
Nut/kernel plan none smirk at, sense contest.
Judge, smile, and joy glean from a jest red blessed.
I’ll nettle you from behind
I’ll striddle you from the side
I’ll stalk you in the light
I’ll be there when you die
I’ll watch you when you hide
I’ll scrutinize your tide
I’ll scan your ever lie
I’ll be there when you die
Will you remember me by the susurration of my wrath?
Will you remember what I said last?
Did I stain the back of your mind?
Did I modify your design?
I’ll be there when you die
If the walls talked they'd tell you I’m here
But they can't so I’ll remain your desolated fear
I hear your cryptic moans
I taste your infantine toes
I follow you
Your every thought is downloaded
Your secure walls have eroded
I’ll remain here biding
My closed eyes know where you're hiding
Sound of shadows
I’ll be there when you die
I’ll nettle you from behind
I’ll striddle you from the side
I’ll stalk you in the light
I’ll be there when you die
I’ll watch you when you hide
I’ll scrutinize your tide
I’ll scan every time you lie
I’ll be there when you die
Oh yea
Sound of shadows
I’ll be there when you die
Oh yea
Sound of shadows
Will you remember me by the susurration of my wrath?
Will you remember what I said last?
Did I stain the back of your mind?
Did I modify your design?
I’ll be there when you die
Double red daisies, they’re my flowers,
Which nobody else may grow.
In a big quarrelsome house like ours
They try it sometimes—but no,
I root them up because they’re my flowers,
Which nobody else may grow.
Claire has a tea-rose, but she didn’t plant it;
Ben has an iris, but I don’t want it.
Daisies, double red daisies for me,
The beautifulest flowers in the garden.
Double red daisy, that’s my mark:
I paint it in all my books!
It’s carved high up on the beech-tree bark,
How neat and lovely it looks!
So don’t forget that it’s my trade mark;
Don’t copy it in your books.
Claire has a tea-rose, but she didn’t plant it;
Ben has an iris, but I don’t want it.
Daisies, double red daisies for me,
The beautifulest flowers in the garden.
She stood at the alter
A gown of white she did wear
With a bouquet of red roses
And blue ribbons in her hair
She waited for someone
Who was never to come
Tears leaked from her eyes
Across her cheeks did run
The bouquet of red roses
For her wedding day
Have all now faded
As time slipped away
Those faded red roses
She still holds in her hand
Years have come and gone
Waiting for this man
You’ll still find her
With tears in her eyes
As the hopes he’ll still come
Fade like the roses
Washed too much by the sun
Today she still waits all alone
Those faded red roses in her hand
Is now all that she owns
Give me the blood red poppy,
With one black beady eye
Bobbing in the wind
On hairy green stalk
Home to the spider
Jewel of the corn field
Cheery wayside friend
Beacon in the mud of Flanders
Flashing danger
And hope
Living among the dead
Give me the blood red poppy
Not a paper reproduction
Pinned on my chest
I would rather wear my heart
On my sleeve and say
Thank you
To those
Who, without ceremony
Gave their life
Rightly—or wrongly
I will remember
I do remember,
Who could forget?
in the new washroom
teaching grandchild to brush teeth
old toothless granny
mom red with fury
the mirror and the child's face
red with her lipstick
RED balloon
floating through frames
of Thirties celluloid
dusty RED
dreamtime
black feet dancing
rhode island RED
bustling scratchily
in the poo speckled straw
RED back
hiding in the cupboard
spinning her web
marxist RED
hiding under the bed
spinning in the Fifties
RED shoes
shining, dancing
dancing till death
carmine RED
shining on clowns' noses
audience laughing
RED wine
dancing on drunks' noses
everyone laughing
the RED queen
running faster and faster
growing smaller and smaller
deep RED
roses, richly perfumed
always remind me of you
I LOVE RED
I LOVE to be warm by the red fireside,
I love to be wet with rain:
I love to be welcome at lamplit doors,
And leave the doors again.
In a moment of silence
I ponder
Thinking of the pressure that I’m under
Should I resort to violence?
I see red like a blood thirsty vampire
I feel red like a hot faced town crier
It is as if I've been hit with a set of pliers
While disappointed in the one I used to admire
Yesterday before and after I went to bed
I dreamt of nothing else but the dead
I saw a vision of the rolling of heads
You've stabbed me and I have bled
My eyes are still steaming hot and red
These vicious rumours that you've spread
While I blindly followed and you led
Now I question myself instead
Of all the things that have been said
Have I knowingly been misled?
Without recognising what was ahead
I know positive thoughts I must embed
Peace is the message we want widespread
Not red with more bloodshed
What is really weird, is whenever we see  red
That negative vision can so easily be shred
595
Like Mighty Foot Lights—burned the Red
At Bases of the Trees—
The far Theatricals of Day
Exhibiting—to These—
'Twas Universe—that did applaud—
While Chiefest—of the Crowd—
Enabled by his Royal Dress—
Myself distinguished God—
Walking to Grandma’s house was such a chore
For nymphomaniac Little Red Riding Whore
The woods were boring and devoid of decent men
So she had to stop to finger herself every now and again
There was even a passing branch that looked so strong
She had to straddle it’s length and slide it in past her thong
There were dangers in the woods Riding Whore had been told
Of a vicious man eating wolf whose blood was cold
Riding Whore had no fear of such creatures of the night
Her only fear was not getting shagged before the morning light
In a part of the forest where the trees grew high and dark
From beside her Riding Whore heard a low rumbling bark
The wolf was on her in a flash snapping jaws at her throat
But all Riding Whore could think was “What a sexy soft coat”
She avoided the wolf’s bite with a fraction of an inch to spare
She reached down between his legs searching around in his hair
The unfortunate wolf couldn’t have known what was going on
Before Riding Whore had him on his back with a raging hardon
She pinned the wolf down with a frightening strength for a girl
And fucked the wolf so hard his hair began to curl
When  she finally came, her cry rang loud in the air
But after masturbating all day she didn’t really care
She climbed off the wolf and dusted herself down
Began to walk away, then turned back with a frown
The wolf lay still, there was no need to check pulse or breath
She was impressed with herself for she had fucked him to death
So on she went to her Grandma’s house, one thing in her mind on the track
‘I wonder if he had any brothers that wolf who could do me on the way back? ’
May …
Our Brothers and Sisters
Enjoy these gifts
Of OUR labor, love and blood
***********IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
***********IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
***********IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
***********IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
***** ******IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII
ICONIC SYMBOL of AMERICA,
LAND OF THE FREE, THE BRAVE
THE PROUD HARD-WORKING
SHOULDERS THAT CARRY SO MANY
May …
Our Brothers and Sisters
Enjoy these gifts
Of OUR labor, love and blood
FREEDOM OF SPEECH,
FREEDOM OF RELIGION
BASIC HUMAN DIGNITY,
FULL BELLIES, CLEAN WATER
READING BOOKS,
AND LEADERS of their OWN CHOOSING
GIFTS NOURISHED WITH THE
BLOOD OF OUR MOST
PRECIOUS FRUITED
GOLDEN GRAINS
ALL GROWN IN VESSELS
OF FAITH, LOVE and RESPECT…
May …
Our Brothers and Sisters
Enjoy these gifts
Of OUR labor, love and blood
(THE TOP OF THE MOUNTAIN, TENNESSEE
July 6,2006)
Many red devils ran from my heart
And out upon the page,
They were so tiny
The pen could mash them.
And many struggled in the ink.
It was strange
To write in this red muck
Of things from my heart.
MF: your initials hit me
striking hard - blinding
RosesAreRed - that they are
not all roses are red and
not all things red are roses
MF roses are MF red....
not if you're colour blind
not if you're shot in the head
RosesAreRed - yellow or white
screaming loud - deafening.
`
MO CAILIN ALAINN RUA
(My Beautiful Red Haired Girl)
Your hair
taken by the wind
blown
into flame
a fiery red
Medussa
standing on
the edge
of this
mountain
a world
turned to stone
as if your gaze
froze this landscape
into place.
I too
still as stone
your hair
flaring up into the air
fiery snakes
like thoughts
bursting out of your mind
fighting the sunset
that only
a small box camera
captures
& contains
this photo
cutting off your head
from the rest of you
mythical
untouchable
mo cailin alainn rua
mo cailin alainn rua.
***
RED RIVER
Your hair
trickles down your back
in curls...curls
curl after curl
rivers of ringlets
cascading down your spine.
I want to drown
in the waters of your hair.
You wear a waterfall
over each shoulder
The fiery flames
of your tresses
crashing over thigh & hip & buttock!
My hands
like fishes
swimming all over
your body
splashed with the beauty
of your hair
touching & touching
the sheer
nakedness
of
you.
***** **
WEARING HER HAIR
You stand
before me
dressed only
in the dress
that your hair
weaves about you
naked
yet
not
you wear
your hair
as a magical
garment
from a half remembered half forgotten fairytale.
You undress
throwing your hair over each shoulder
I come to you as if a spell
commanded me to & you
wrap me
in your hair.
Both  our
nakedness
wearing your hair
sheltered here
lost amongst
kisses.
***
A fellow poet(well, it wasn't a fella)       divulged that she too was red of the hair(this had been unknown to me)       and so this homage to redheads came into being just on this wisp of information...the memories and images flood back into being.
Ahhh...you're candy apple red.
You're breakfast in bed.
You're all the nice things that didn't
...go unsaid.
You're my I am glad to be alive
...not dead!
You're a blue sky turning red.
Why...you're...you're...
words...fail me!
But you...never do!
Know what I like 'bout you?
You're.. you!
I have a little red car,
that fits five quite comfortably,
but members of my family
when shopping think I drive a lorry.
The thing is that they think
it will take them as well,
would you believe.
I do not know where they got the notion
that if you push the back seat down
you can carry triple the amount.
In a minute if they keep going
I will be driving through the sunroof
as there will not be any room
for me in my little red car.
(7 July 2007)
My love is like a red, red rose,
You just call her
And she will come,
You just call her
And she will singing a love song,
Whistling and humming
And the breeze carrying the sweet notes.
My love a red-red rose,
A red rose,
the pain of my heart,
The tinge of pain,
The ache of it,
My heartthrob, my heartbeat.
Here I write a red poem,
Sophie Tucker red,
'The last of the red hot mama's red'
It is a hard Tap Dancing Red,
St. Valentine's red...
Cinnamon Apple scented red...
Georgio sweet smelling red,
Victoria Secret Red,
Morning sunrise red,
Red Hot lipstick red,
The blush on your cheeks red,
Happy Go Lucky Red,
Written with my flaming Pink Craylo Pen,
On this October day...
Oh you kid!
So beautiful and so fragrant
I'm so proud of them, you see
I've had them for a few years
They are all I want them to be.
I care for them the best I can
It is up to them to do the rest
My red, red roses are truly
Some of the very best!
O bring to me a red, red Rose
A symbol of your love
And bring to me a rainbow soft
Plucked from the sky above
For I will give you all I deem
To grant you joy and peace
A heart forever filled with care
That ne`er will ever cease
Then bring, O bring a Violet blue
That faithful I shall be
Always by your side to walk
Together, you and me
Carnations pink I then shall seek
That in my thoughts you`ll stay
In mem`ry you shall there remain
Not e`er to fade away
O bring, O bring an Orchid sweet
That beauty shall incline
Forever in my heart to dwell
Through all the years to shine
A sweet Delphinium I`ll wear
My aspect then to grace
That I may ever be with you
Transcending time and space
An Amaranth shall so endow
My soul, to rise above
All worldly passions set below
To bear immortal love
Then fetch me thus a Lotus flower
That I may see the dawn
Upon its leaf a dewdrop set
My soul to be reborn
O bring to me a Lily, white,
To lay upon my breast
To place it gentlly `cross my heart
When I am laid to rest
I want to be from there
I want to live there when the sun rise
I want to spend my life there
In the city of your imagine
In the city of your dreaming
In Manchester
No way
It was just a dream
But its possible to Manchester united be my dreaming team
Oh….yeah
This word I dream it more than once
In each match must to be a loser
But not for red demon
With Sir Alex Ferguson there is no chance only to win
My life, soul.and my heart all for red demon
They become cheep when I took a glimpse of the soccer eyes
If you look to Sir Alex Ferguson eyes
You will be relaxed to victor the match
Lets teach Chelsea how the win comes easily when we play against them
Chelsea is nothing without Drogba or who was fasting the goal in the world cup
Chelsea like the lady without a baby without them
Lets told them no champions league again
The champions for red demon only…..
There's no team in the world can face them
Or, to stop in them face
All the soccer there  have an ambitious to win as stone
If you want a goal just pass the ball to golden boy or the player of the show
They're ready to do that all the time
If you want the ball next to  the goal just mention to Giggs that
If you don’t wont any goal against you just give Van dar sar attention before the match
If you want more show just give Ronaldo a signal to do that
I hope to see red demon flying up there in the sky
I wish to see you a moon in the moonlit
For our white and our excellent nights--for the nights of swift
running,
Fair ranging, far seeing, good hunting, sure cunning!
For the smells of the dawning, untainted, ere dew has departed!
For the rush through the mist, and the quarry blind-started!
For the cry of our mates when the sambhur has wheeled and is
standing at bay!
For the risk and the riot of night!
For the sleep at the lair-mouth by day!
It is met, and we go to the fight.
Bay! O bay!
This harpie with dry red curls
talked openly of her husband,
his impotence, his death, the death
of her lover, the birth and death
of her own beauty. She stared
into the mirror next to
our table littered with the wreck
of her appetite and groaned:
Look what you've done to me!
as though only that moment
she'd discovered her own face.
Look, and she shoved the burden
of her ruin on the waiter.
I do not believe in sorrow;
it is not American.
At 8,000 feet the towns
of this blond valley smoke
like the thin pipes of the Chinese,
and I go higher where the air
is clean, thin, and the underside
of light is clearer than the light.
Above the tree line the pines
crowd below like moments of the past
and on above the snow line
the cold underside of my arm,
the half in shadow, sweats with fear
as though it lay along the edge
of revelation.
And so my mind closes around
a square oil can crushed on the road
one morning, startled it was not
the usual cat. If a crow
had come out of the air to choose
its entrails could I have laughed?
If eagles formed now in the
shocked vegetation of my sight
would they be friendly? I can hear
their wings lifting them down, the feathers
tipped with red dust, that dust which
even here I taste, having eaten it
all these years.
Red flags the reason for pretty flags.
And ribbons.
Ribbons of flags
And wearing material
Reason for wearing material.
Give pleasure.
Can you give me the regions.
The regions and the land.
The regions and wheels.
All wheels are perfect.
Enthusiasm.
THE old brown thorn-trees break in two high over Cummen Strand,
Under a bitter black wind that blows from the left hand;
Our courage breaks like an old tree in a black wind and dies,
But we have hidden in our hearts the flame out of the eyes
Of Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
The wind has bundled up the clouds high over Knock- narea,
And thrown the thunder on the stones for all that Maeve can say.
Angers that are like noisy clouds have set our hearts abeat;
But we have all bent low and low and kissed the quiet feet
Of Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
The yellow pool has overflowed high up on Clooth-na-Bare,
For the wet winds are blowing out of the clinging air;
Like heavy flooded waters our bodies and our blood;
But purer than a tall candle before the Holy Rood
Is Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
Red lips are not so red
As the stained stones kissed by the English dead.
Kindness of wooed and wooer
Seems shame to their love pure.
O Love, your eyes lose lure
When I behold eyes blinded in my stead!
Your slender attitude
Trembles not exquisite like limbs knife-skewed,
Rolling and rolling there
Where God seems not to care;
Till the fierce Love they bear
Cramps them in death's extreme decrepitude.
Your voice sings not so soft, --
Though even as wind murmuring through raftered loft, --
Your dear voice is not dear,
Gentle, and evening clear,
As theirs whom none now hear
Now earth has stopped their piteous mouths that coughed.
Heart, you were never hot,
Nor large, nor full like hearts made great with shot;
And though your hand be pale,
Paler are all which trail
Your cross through flame and hail:
Weep, you may weep, for you may touch them not.
i like
red
it dances
for me
rolling
down my fingers
so pretty
red
the way
she dances
so pretty
the red
makes it
better
the floor
shiny
with red
in patterns
i can see them
like butterflies
or faces
dancing
across the patterns
making
new patterns
she makes them
singing
red
so happy
with the singing
and dancing
the red
dances with her
like the rain
on my window
red
so much red
my whole world
red
my hands
red
her pretty dress
red
the floor and walls
red
redredred
so happy
and red
she sang
from the red
on her throat
like a flute
or a fountain
so red
red red red
dancing spasms
to music
on the floor
and in my head
red
whole world red
redredred
Red is the colour of tomato sauce dripping down the side of your hamburger
Red is the feeling after exercise
Red is the sound of silence
Red is the colour of warm blood flooding your veins
Red is the smell of sweets lying in their containers at the supermarket
Red is the sound of pain
Red is the taste of hot chilli risotto
Red is the colour of bright luscious lipstick
Red is the feeling of joy
Red is the taste of jam toast soldiers for breakfast
Red is the sun setting in the evening
Red is the colour of poppies swaying in the fields
Red is the sweltering Sahara desert
Red is the colour of a ripe cherry resting on a dollop of cream
Red is the feeling of love
Red is the taste of mouth watering cheesy takeaway pizza
Red is the R&B music
Red is a colour that is safe and alive.
OH HOW I LOVE THE COLOUR RED
Especially dripping from my head,
I SHOULD LIKE TO PAINT WITH IT
But it seems that I am dead.
(Edited by Heather Burns - Error Free)
I
Viola, I'm the galloping horse in a battle,
The trumpeting elephant in a tide,
The growling tiger ready to collide.
I'm in the hail storm of an acid rain,
the roaring lion sets to die in a fire.
Lo, fighting is my Label, a rebel red;
In trouble as I fell with a rhyme triple.
Rulers have the power just to fire, yet
I'm the counter fire, I never retire, but
I died in a foul encounter, a mystery.
For pollution in their hearts I'm the solution;
Hello! My name is revolution,
The thunder bolt and the wonder volt!
From here does mutiny spreads…..
I'm a rebellion dead as the blood I wed.
As a child I didn't play on the saar, so what?
War is not far, my mouth if I open. Tut!
Know not Mozilla yet I mastered warfare guerrilla,
Can't sneak like a thief nor slither like a snake,
But I tone a slogan, ‘hike-hike my life is at stake.'
II
Hello-hello fellow class, I did not pass,
In the mass I'm one, let me sing for the poor.
Stalin, Lenin, Mao and Chou are my bosses,
Gun is my friend, pen is my property and
I will fight and fight till I create history.
I'm the dying spirit of my fellow comrades,
A lover of swords and words of Karl Marx.
In the deep woods dark, blood I spill.
For reasons known and in seasons myriad
To change the society into selfless one.
I'm the exponent - a Marxist, Maoist and Titoist;
The proponent - a Castroist, Guevarist and Trotskyist;
The revolutionist - an extremist, radicalist and sydicalist.
Quit using spade bit - a bolshie, commie and naxalite
as a Leftist, a communist yet the A-one humanist am I.
Come, come comrade, oh crimson colored commie!
Cheers, do you hear a boisterous welcome? Yo, red -
To, tovarish, with gazillion cockades red, a bonvoyage.
Heaven and earth you moved so let me bid you adieu;
keep chanting - salaam, salaam comrade, lal salaam!
(Poet's Word: Dear fellow Amigo! This is a very revolutionary poem which has come from Marina trench of my heart spontaneously - like the flow of brook, when I read lot of novels and real life biographies of comrades, socialists, etc. who were (are)      always immersed in battles of blood for betterment of the poor and down trodden sections of the society in various developing countries.I hope lot of writers read this and write their suggestions, comments and criticism. Wish a happy reading to all the COMRADES!)
I am a trumpeting elephant and high tide,
I am a galloping horse to ride.
I am a growling tiger and ready to collide!
I am a roaring lion with pride.
Hi! Hi! Comrade cheerio!  Comrade
Hiya! Hiya! Comrade, bon-voyage comrade!
I am a thunder bolt! I am a wonder volt!
They may have fire,
But I am a cease-fire and live-wire.
Tire! Tire! I never retire.
I am a hail storm and acid rain.
I am victimized comrade but not thrashed brain,
Hello! Hello! My name is revolution!
Solution! Solution! As your heart is pollution!
Marxist, Maoist, Castroist and I – a Leninist
Guevarist, Titoist, Trotskyist, and I – a Stalinist.
Naxalite, syndicalist, extremist, and I, a revolutionist;
Bolshie, commie, and radical; why these words of spade bit!
Leftist, socialist, communist and I, a humanist fit!
Revolt is my style! Struggle is my file.
In battle, I am grown……
Maoism is my crown.
....................................... ................................................. ...
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>READ PART 2>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
*A big NOTICE BOARD: Oops! Sorry the poem is NOT completed. This is just break time! Now read to make your reading wholesome read PART - 2
RED-RED = Double - RED REBEL  is in Trouble! (Part-2)
Fighting is my Label,
I am a red rebel.........
I am in trouble and in double.
From here does my revolution spread.
As I wed blood and a rebellion dead.
I am dying spirit of my fellow comrades.
I am a lover of swords and Marx words.
I spill my blood in the dark deep woods;
Social change is my goal, I'm a tool.
Societal change is my soul, I'm no fool!
If I open my mouth war is not far.
As a child I did not slide on saar.
So far, I know only a war for heaven's sake
I can't sneak like a thief or slither like snake!
Hike! Hike! My life is at stake.
Hello! Hello! Fellow class!
I did not pass, I am mass, ma! Ma! Mass.
Karl Marx, Fredric Angel, Mao is my boss;
Gun is my friend and pen is my property.
I will fight and fight till I create history.
But I died in fowl encounter and under mystery.
Remember my words we cannot be calm,
Keep chanting, “Salaam! Salaam! Comrade lal salaam! ”
You moved heaven and earth bye, bye comrade!
Let me bid you adieu with bon-voyage Comrade!
(Peculiar words and terms a list:
Saar = a thing made for small children to slide in schools.
lal = red colour in Hindi
Note: all the new terms used in fourth stanza like Guevarist, Trotskyist, Titoist, etc. are the words derived from famous the names of famed communist leaders of different countries and in different ages.)
............................................. ................................................. ...................
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>RE AD PART ONE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
BIG NOTICE BOARD: Sorry, if you LIKE to grasp central theme of poem Just take a break! Now READ PART1 to make your reading wholesome.
RED-RED = Double - RED REBEL is in Trouble! (Part-1)
Red, red gold, a kingdom's ransom, child,
To weave thy yellow hair she bade them spin.
At early dawn the gossamer spiders toiled,
And wove the sunrise in.
She took the treasures of the deep blue noon,
She took the clear eyes of the morning star,
The pale--faced lilies of a seven--days moon,
The dust of Phoebus' car.
She painted thee with dewdrops from the flowers,
Stained with their petals, hyacinth and rose,
And violets all wet with April showers
And snowdrops from the snows.
Red, red rose, she blew her breath
Fingers, it’s stem she caressed
Then she closed her eyes and breathed the fragrance in
Tell me red, red rose, where does love end
She placed the rose, gently against her lips
She plucked a single petal, with finger tips
And as the wind caught and carried up high
Tell me red, red rose, can love it fly
Slowly one by one, each petal fell
Upon the last in her eye, a tear it swelled
And then she sighed as she asked to her self
Tell me red, red rose, is for love, is this what’s left
Red, red rose, red, red rose
You stand for love you should know
Should we hold on tight with all our might
Must one day we let go
Red, red rose, red, red rose
Your petals fly in the breeze
If I let go, red, red rose
What becomes of me.
Copyright 2006 Bill Simmons
aka BillWilliamStar
BillWilliamStar@aol.com
The beauty of this lovely garden,
The beauty of this lonely rose,
Red, Red Rose!
Heart's love,
My joy.
Heart, art!
Love and art,
This lovely garden,
This lonely rose,
Red, Red Rose!
It isn’t hard to image
What exactly she’s doing there
A dingy motel with a
Flashing ‘vacancy’ sign
After all,
Some women will say
he looks good in
leather chaps
doesn’t he?
But she’s a nice girl
And a good wife
Mother of two
President of the PTA
She wonders what’s off
The beaten path
And what’s this guy
with a Harley and a grin
got that says:
‘you want this’?
Sometimes claws are better
Than fleshy man-hands
And sometimes little girls
Aren’t little at all
When he comes riding
Back into town
Looking for the girl
With that red hood
A bored housewife
Decides to play the part
He’s all wolf
And he’s all man
Being married to a hunter
She’s never felt like this
And, boy, she’ll say
Sometime later
Did that leather
Ever feel good
Rubbing hard against
Her skin
When she and her
Kids disappeared with
No Harley or grin near
The wolf will eat well
My, my, my
The old ladies at
The supermarket cluck
Little Red Riding Hood’s
A whore
But they forgot
She isn’t little anymore
A stem with a reddish bud on,
A crown among the fairest in the sun;
It's the rose you all can see,
That opens its flower beneath a tree.
It's for you to adore and cheer,
If you do care for it being here;
It opens its crown to a bumble bee,
It grows its fairest for you and me.
Then there is the lily white as snow,
Or yellow or pink petals to show;
Can you not say it's fairest too?
Its April flowers grow just for you.
It shows you the newborn in lives,
When its blooms first in spring arrives;
With fragrance that freshens the air,
I love to have both these flowers here.
(To, Robert Burns - 1759-1796)
Red Rose Red Lips
Red color of red rose match with your soft lips
I want to caress, kiss all the petals with passion
With sophisticated gestures your eyes give tips
All but seen in real wonderful romantic fashion
Let me be the part of beauty let me see you all
You are my heart solace you are my sweetheart
Her hidden beauty crops up in actions to install
Like a gorgeous lady you are amazing and smart
Let me be the part of your emotional dark nights
Let me bloom like a flower under your all tresses
I will perform duties of love with beauty as rights
Let us make strong in a chain all the love bases
Col Muhammad Khalid Khan
Copyright 2017 Golden Glow
Red Rose,
Red rose,
Where to go
Leaving you,
Leaving you, Red Rose?
You my hope,
You my joy,
Red Rose.
When I do not see you,
I feel it sad, Rose,
Red Rose!
Poets may praise a wattle thatch
Doubtfully waterproof;
Let me uplift my lowly latch
Beneath a rose-tiled roof.
Let it be gay and rich in hue,
Soft bleached by burning days,
Where skies ineffably are blue,
And seas a golden glaze.
But set me in the surly North
Beneath a roof of slate,
And as I sourly sally forth
My heart will hum with hate;
And I will brood beneath a pine
Where Nature seldom smiles,
Heart-longing for a starry vine
And roof of ruddy tiles.
For oh the South's a bonny clime
And sunshine is its life;
So there I'll finish up my time
A stranger unto strife.
And smoke my pipe and sit aloof
From care by miles and miles,
Sagaciously beneath a roof,
Geranium-gay and panic proof,
Of ruby tinted tiles.
2222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222 22222222222222
I'm nervous on the sidewalk,
pacing back and forth
in my ruby red stilletos.
(I hope I look beautiful.)
I'm waiting under a full moon,
in front of your apartment,
eyes on my red-strapped watch.
(You're taking your time, beautiful.)
I'm growing impatient now;
and I look like a streetwalker
in my siren red strapless.
(The men say, 'Hello, Beautiful.')
I see you parking now, late as ever.
You're on the driver's side
of a blood-red Ferrari.
(I always thought that car was beautiful.)
You're stepping out of the car,
And walking to the other side
To hold open the red door.
(A gentleman...how beautiful.)
A woman steps out of the car:
A vixen if I ever saw one,
White smile parting shiny red lips.
(Now I don't feel so beautiful.)
You walk to your apartment door,
your hands, your lips all over her...
At last, you're caught red handed.
(You'd told ME I was beautiful...)
If this is how you treat the comely,
I'd rather be the repulsive Medusa
and stone you for your red deception.
I sit alone, it's all too much,
Why can't i just be dead,
I need to free the hurt inside,
So I cry my tears of red.
I watch the blood flow thick and fast,
As I cut deeper every day,
I open up my body,
To bleed my pain away
My body is engraved,
With the emotions of my heart,
My skin's the story of my soul,
I'm a living work of art.
The words read red and clear,
As more blood starts to flow,
I'm holding on to life right now,
But soon I'll let it go.
What have I got to live for,
But to hack into my skin?
Soon I'll make that final cut,
And end all that's within.
- 2nd March 2004, age 17 -
Sitting on the curb
Wondering why she does this-it was her
Pale, skin grave
Holding a razorblade
Crying of tears
Mixed with blood
Why was she still here?
She told herself she must
Remembering his arms around her
Said, ' I love you'
How lonely I felt
When he left me with nothing but a pool
A pool full of water
From my tears it formed
A pool of depression at my heart
I'll drown in it while i'm torn
I'm sitting here, at the curb
With my razorblade
He stares at me and says ' you bleed pretty '
When i do nothing but bleed
I turn my right arm over
Let it rest in my skin
Let it bleed until I die
The pain thats in glisten
Despair
Sanity
Anguish
Su icide it screams
Today I die and here I lie
From the wrists I bleed
It is not for them to criticize too minutely the methods the Irish followed, though they might deplore some of their results. During the past few years Ireland had been going through what was tantamount to a revolution. -- EARL SPENCER
Red Earl, and will ye take for guide
The silly camel-birds,
That ye bury your head in an Irish thorn,
On a desert of drifting words?
Ye have followed a man for a God, Red Earl,
As the Lord o' Wrong and Right;
But the day is done with the setting sun
Will ye follow into the night?
He gave you your own old words, Red Earl,
For food on the wastrel way;
Will ye rise and eat in the night, Red Earl,
That fed so full in the day?
Ye have followed fast, ye have followed far,
And where did the wandering lead?
From the day that ye praised the spoken word
To the day ye must gloss the deed.
And as ye have given your hand for gain,
So must ye give in loss;
And as ye ha' come to the brink of the pit,
So must ye loup across.
For some be rogues in grain, Red Earl,
And some be rogues in fact,
And rogues direct and rogues elect;
But all be rogues in pact.
Ye have cast your lot with these, Red Earl;
Take heed to where ye stand.
Ye have tied a knot with your tongue, Red Earl,
That ye cannot loose with your hand.
Ye have travelled fast, ye have travelled far,
In the grip of a tightening tether,
Till ye find at the end ye must take for friend
The quick and their dead together.
Ye have played with the Law between your lips,
And mouthed it daintilee;
But the gist o' the speech is ill to teach,
For ye say: "Let wrong go free."
Red Earl, ye wear the Garter fair,
And gat your place from a King:
Do ye make Rebellion of no account,
And Treason a little thing?
And have ye weighed your words, Red Earl,
That stand and speak so high?
And is it good that the guilt o' blood,
Be cleared at the cost of a sigh?
And is it well for the sake of peace,
Our tattered Honour to sell,
And higgle anew with a tainted crew --
Red Earl, and is it well?
Ye have followed fast, ye have followed far,
On a dark and doubtful way,
And the road is hard, is hard, Red Earl,
And the price is yet to pay.
Ye shall pay that price as ye reap reward
For the toil of your tongue and pen --
In the praise of the blamed and the thanks of the shamed,
And the honour o' knavish men.
They scarce shall veil their scorn, Red Earl,
And the worst at the last shall be,
When you tell your heart that it does not know
And your eye that it does not see.
What was the blackest sight to me
Of all that campaign?
A naked woman tied to a tree
With jagged holes where her breasts should be,
Rotting there in the rain.
On we pressed to the battle fray,
Dogged and dour and spent.
Sudden I heard my Captain say:
"Voilà! Kultur has passed this way,
And left us a monument."
So I looked and I saw our Colonel there,
And his grand head, snowed with the years,
Unto the beat of the rain was bare;
And, oh, there was grief in his frozen stare,
And his cheeks were stung with tears!
Then at last he turned from the woeful tree,
And his face like stone was set;
"Go, march the Regiment past," said he,
"That every father and son may see,
And none may ever forget."
Oh, the crimson strands of her hair downpoured
Over her breasts of woe;
And our grim old Colonel leaned on his sword,
And the men filed past with their rifles lowered,
Solemn and sad and slow.
But I'll never forget till the day I die,
As I stood in the driving rain,
And the jaded columns of men slouched by,
How amazement leapt into every eye,
Then fury and grief and pain.
And some would like madmen stand aghast,
With their hands upclenched to the sky;
And some would cross themselves as they passed,
And some would curse in a scalding blast,
And some like children cry.
Yea, some would be sobbing, and some would pray,
And some hurl hateful names;
But the best had never a word to say;
They turned their twitching faces away,
And their eyes were like hot flames.
They passed; then down on his bended knee
The Colonel dropped to the Dead:
"Poor martyred daughter of France!" said he,
"O dearly, dearly avenged you'll be
Or ever a day be sped!"
Now they hold that we are the best of the best,
And each of our men may wear,
Like a gash of crimson across his chest,
As one fierce-proved in the battle-test,
The blood-red Fourragere.
For each as he leaps to the top can see,
Like an etching of blood on his brain,
A wife or a mother lashed to a tree,
With two black holes where her breasts should be,
Left to rot in the rain.
So we fight like fiends, and of us they say
That we neither yield nor spare.
Oh, we have the bitterest debt to pay. . . .
Have we paid it? -- Look -- how we wear to-day
Like a trophy, gallant and proud and gay,
Our blood-red Fourragere.
Across the Eastern sky has glowed
The flicker of a blood-red dawn,
Once more the clarion cock has crowed,
Once more the sword of Christ is drawn.
A million burning rooftrees light
The world-wide path of Israel's flight.
Where is the Hebrew's fatherland?
The folk of Christ is sore bestead;
The Son of Man is bruised and banned,
Nor finds whereon to lay his head.
His cup is gall, his meat is tears,
His passion lasts a thousand years.
Each crime that wakes in man the beast,
Is visited upon his kind.
The lust of mobs, the greed of priest,
The tyranny of kings, combined
To root his seed from earth again,
His record is one cry of pain.
When the long roll of Christian guilt
Against his sires and kin is known,
The flood of tears, the life-blood spilt,
The agony of ages shown,
What oceans can the stain remove,
From Christian law and Christian love?
Nay, close the book; not now, not here,
The hideous tale of sin narrate,
Reëchoing in the martyr's ear,
Even he might nurse revengeful hate,
Even he might turn in wrath sublime,
With blood for blood and crime for crime.
Coward? Not he, who faces death,
Who singly against worlds has fought,
For what? A name he may not breathe,
For liberty of prayer and thought.
The angry sword he will not whet,
His nobler task is -- to forget.
a ping rings so slight
off our submarine hull
faces go white
this isn't a drill
the skipper regards us
with a look that is hard
says 'Who dared to bring
their damn credit card? '
'Please sir, it's me sir'
I step forward and 'fess
'You fool! '  he hissed
Your payments you've missed! '
'We'll be drowned in high fees
snagged in red tape
we'll never get free
with their new interest rates! '
'Dive deep! ' he commands
'We're in hot water now!
But we'll try to escape
their collections so foul! '
The pinging grows louder
we sweat and we fret
their intent is avowed
to collect on the debt
Then explosions begin
our position looks bleak
Final notices pour in
through thousands of leaks
'that's the end of us lads
we'll sink no more barges
It seems they are dropping
those bloody late charges! '
The Captain eyes me
bills up to his waist
growls 'this wouldn't have happened
if you'd paid with due haste! '
'Pardon me, Sir' I gasp
in our pocket of air
'these aren't my bills
- that's YOUR name here'
(hope you liked this poetic sub mission, er.. submission!)
The meaning of just one red rose
It's plain for all to see
It is just this, my love for you
And what it means to me
So take this rose and with it's love
Be mine, If near or far
Remember too my love for you
And stay the way you are
I miss you and the days grow long
When you are out of touch
So take this rose and always know
I love you dear, so much
Give a thought to me each day
Love as not passed you by
Feed your rose with teardrops
If to love me makes you cry
There will be no love stronger
A love known by so few
From the one, who gives you this red rose
And all it means to you
Good luck, good health, God bless dear
May I see you every day
Pray my love be always with you
Till the last rose, fades away.
The evil demons
Scream inside
Nowhere to run
Nowhere to hide
They continue to grow
From deep within
Making you commit
Sin after sin
Darkened images
Flash through your brain
As fast as lighting
Pouring like rain
They attach on
To every nerve
Making you prepared
And ready to serve
The fidelity of the day
Runs along the chrome gills
Of her highway,
The glitter of a stream
Disappears in the shade,
When she tells you, you
Do not know her.
When she slips off
For other men, your
Dear brothers,
Going around the bend,
She does not look back
But cascades
In the tangled memories
Of skin and bone laced
With skin and bone
The defeated sun
Kneels beneath the
Horizon’s teeth to
Shatter, and fall
Steaming into the sea,
The gift of the craftsman
Wasted before honed
When the city becomes the
Jungle,
Private detectives working
Overtime
Gunned down without audience
On unseen intersections
Before all the ladies
Opening their doors,
Going out on the walk for the evening,
The skin of their legs flowing
Like running facets
Cooling the parched eyes
Of men, their bodies lighting up
The safety of nightlights
Next to the bedroom,
The doors left open,
Inviting
With All the husbands gone
On very long and expensive trips
With the objects they wish to posses,
Humid and beginning to swim,
Women become the sea-wolves,
The bones of their bodies learn to
Breath through the touch of skins,
Burning through the ancient fires
Of survival
The glass roof above where
The commercial airlines
Fly, comes down
The dryads uncoil their forms
Swim through the muted clouds
Sweating, rings slip from fingers
Fangs, like roots, moisten
In dark corners paid for by the hour,
Friends make love to old lovers
Again,
Back at home,
Locked,
Old lovers stand alone
Hand in hand with a
Gun
Kissing
Where the sun plummets
Through the caves,
Settling amidst the wrecks,
The hopeless hearts,
Forgotten and undisturbed,
Where the greatest man lies
Beneath green green grass,
Nameless,
Not even an allusion of movement
In the graveyard of the deepest
Bay,
Discarded by the pumping jungle
Through which the red hearts love.
469
The Red—Blaze—is the Morning—
The Violet—is Noon—
The Yellow—Day—is falling—
And after that—is none—
But Miles of Sparks—at Evening—
Reveal the Width that burned—
The Territory Argent—that
Never yet—consumed—
Closeted I stare at this red door.
Ajar, but as open to me as a vault.
My nightmare is my salvation.
Silence now awakening, keeping me distraught.
Reaching out, I wonder, am I within a dream?
Surreal, languid, and impatient is my eternity.
Crying effortlessly, I grasp what is not real.
Abrupt realization that I can no longer see.
Starving, I face a feast of emotion
turning green with mold and decay.
Wondering if yesterday is my tomorrow,
or if my tomorrow is tortured delay.
Fuming with my desires so depleted.
My song bursts into dirges for peace.
A warrior facing the last battle.
The rose in winter can never be me.
Alone with my red door with keys in each hand.
Twisting, turning, yet no key fits inside.
Silent indignation of my caged facade.
Pain beyond redemption walks at my side.
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
I always saw, I always said
If I were grown and free,
I'd have a gown of reddest red
As fine as you could see,
To wear out walking, sleek and slow,
Upon a Summer day,
And there'd be one to see me so
And flip the world away.
And he would be a gallant one,
With stars behind his eyes,
And hair like metal in the sun,
And lips too warm for lies.
I always saw us, gay and good,
High honored in the town.
Now I am grown to womanhood....
I have the silly gown.
In the pleasant time of Pentecost,
By the little river Kyll,
I followed the angler's winding path
Or waded the stream at will,
And the friendly fertile German land
Lay round me green and still.
But all day long on the eastern bank
Of the river cool and clear,
Where the curving track of the double rails
Was hardly seen though near,
The endless trains of German troops
Went rolling down to Trier.
They packed the windows with bullet heads
And caps of hodden gray;
They laughed and sang and shouted loud
When the trains were brought to a stay;
They waved their hands and sang again
As they went on their iron way.
No shadow fell on the smiling land,
No cloud arose in the sky;
I could hear the river's quiet tune
When the trains had rattled by;
But my heart sank low with a heavy sense
Of trouble,- I knew not why.
Then came I into a certain field
Where the devil's paint-brush spread
'Mid the gray and green of the rolling hills
A flaring splotch of red,-
An evil omen, a bloody sign,
And a token of many dead.
I saw in a vision the field-gray horde
Break forth at the devil's hour,
And trample the earth into crimson mud
In the rage of the Will to Power,-
All this I dreamed in the valley of Kyll,
At the sign of the blood-red flower.
There was a red-haired man who had no eyes or ears.
Neither did he have any hair, so he was called red-haired theoretically.
He couldn't speak, since he didn't have a mouth. Neither did he have a nose.
He didn't even have any arms or legs. He had no stomach and he had no back and he had no spine and he had no innards whatsoever. He had nothing at all!
Therefore there's no knowing whom we are even talking about.
In fact it's better that we don't say any more about him.
Sudden as a mirror, the red house
jumped from behind fluffed trees;
windowed four-square and flat slated
violet as final clouds, it seemed,
(or was, so solid its broad gesture) ,
a brick god chapped with litanies.
And there I was born, not I, but rather
the name of my face, the learned, caught
habits of sufference;  below
the slope of the narrow roof were formed
the tribal totems that hard words
have since tabooed, evaded, sought.
Come on it suddenly as a mirror
there at the road's turn, it was so
locked and fenced that, a blank neighbour
caught in an intimacy he knows
outside his role, I watched a boy
at last turn on his heel and go.
The great thing
is not having
a mind. Feelings:
oh, I have those; they
govern me. I have
a lord in heaven
called the sun, and open
for him, showing him
the fire of my own heart, fire
like his presence.
What could such glory be
if not a heart? Oh my brothers and sisters,
were you like me once, long ago,
before you were human? Did you
permit yourselves
to open once, who would never
open again? Because in truth
I am speaking now
the way you do. I speak
because I am shattered.
The red rose wept for long
Upon the autumn sad song
And then recovered from grief
And shattered the wet green leaf
The spring is there but the tears
Of lover, the autumn how bears
The little heart in search of charm
Is beating and beating and warm
The red rose is watching the gloom
Of the lover’s heart being in boom
His beloved had nodded him back
The rose from him she does not take
The nature feeling warmth is now cold
The autumn will take him in firm hold
The beauty will go leaving the scars
Of drowning moon and falling stars
The thorns will curse the rose to retreat
The red rose weeps on nature’s treat
It doesn’t matter what have gone
The rose will wait for the dawn
The spring no more helps the friend
His beauty will shatter like wall of sand
His days of life will end very soon
At morn, at noon or after noon
The rose sees autumn in the spring
A wave of sorrow his end will bring
The red rose weeps and weeps more
Upon these tears his eyes will sore
No spring can stop, no joy can amaze
With each passing moment his death he chase
So times are when autumn comes in spring
No joy can touch you no nerve can sing
February 16,2005
You offer me a red rose
The little prince loved her
I hold her carefully
Because of the thorns
I breathe your rose
And am transported
my rose...
as the red rose in my life you are...
always young...
nice smelling...
good looking...
giving always a happiness to anyone look at you...
or to anyone smell you lovely perfume...
and take off all sadness from the soul...
my red rose you are...
the rose which i love and adore...
the rose which it red bloody as the blood in my heart...
the rose which sleep always with me..
sleep with me on my chest....
miss you my sweet rose...
miss you as the child's` miss to his mama...
miss you as the adorers` miss to his pray...
as the clouds missed to the rain...
miss you so my sweet dream...
miss you and don`t even know why...
when i am so far from you...
you stay in my heart...
you always in my thoughts...
and my body start with shakes...
and the heart beat so fast...
feel as the fire inside me...
fire which burn me inside...
this fire because of the farness...
farness between me and you...
please my lady...
please and let us cut off this distance...
and let me hug you, , ,
as i am hugging the red rose....
If I gave 5 birds
each 4 eyes
I would be blind
unto the 3rd
generation, if I
gave no one a word
for a day
and let the day
grow into a week
and the week sleep
until it was
half of my life
could I come home
to my father
one dark night?
On Sundays an odd light
grows on the bed
where I have lived
this half of my life
alight that begins
with the eyes
blinding first one
and then both
until at last
even the worn candles
in the flower box
lay down their heads.
Therefore I have come
to this red shirt
with its faultless row
of dark buttons, 7
by my count, as dark
as blood that poured
over my lips
when the first word
of hope jumped
and became a cry
of birds calling
for their wings,
a cry of new birds.
This is the red shirt
Adam gave to the Angel
of Death when he asked
for a son, this
is the flag Moses
waved 5 times
above his head
as he stumbled
down the waves
of the mountainous sea
bearing the Tables of 10,
this is the small cloth
mother put in
my lunch box
with bread and water.
This is my red shirt
in which I go to meet
you, Father of the Sea,
in which I will say
the poem I learned
from the mice. A row
of faultless buttons,
each one 10 years
and the eye of the bird
that beheld the first world
and the last, a field
of great rocks weeping,
and no one to see
me alone, day after
day, in my red shirt.
I love your faces I saw the many years
I drank your milk and filled my mouth
With your home talk, slept in your house
And was one of you.
But a fire burns in my heart.
Under the ribs where pulses thud
And flitting between bones of skull
Is the push, the endless mysterious command,
Saying:
"I leave you behind--
You for the little hills and the years all alike,
You with your patient cows and old houses
Protected from the rain,
I am going away and I never come back to you;
Crags and high rough places call me,
Great places of death
Where men go empty handed
And pass over smiling
To the star-drift on the horizon rim.
My last whisper shall be alone, unknown;
I shall go to the city and fight against it,
And make it give me passwords
Of luck and love, women worth dying for,
And money.
I go where you wist not of
Nor I nor any man nor woman.
I only know I go to storms
Grappling against things wet and naked."
There is no pity of it and no blame.
None of us is in the wrong.
After all it is only this:
You for the little hills and I go away.
The twilight heavens are flushed with gathering light,
And o'er wet roofs and huddling streets below
Hang with a strange Apocalyptic glow
On the black fringes of the wintry night.
Such bursts of glory may have rapt the sight
Of him to whom on Patmos long ago
The visionary angel came to show
That heavenly city built of chrysolite.
And lo, three factory hands begrimed with soot,
Aflame with the red splendour, marvelling stand,
And gaze with lifted faces awed and mute.
Starved of earth's beauty by Man's grudging hand,
O toilers, robbed of labour's golden fruit,
Ye, too, may feast in Nature's fairyland.
so much depends
upon
a red wheel
barrow
glazed with rain
water
beside the white
chickens.
When the palefaces came in their whitewing'd canoes,
Long ago, from the sun-rising sea
When they ask'd for a lodge, and we did not refuse
Happy then was the red man, and free.
He could then choose a spot for his wigwam to stand,
Where the forest was crowded with game;
For the blue-rolling lake and the ever smiling land
Were his own till the palefaces came
For the broad grassy plains and the forests deep and grand,
Were his own till the palefaces came.
They came! they came! like the fierce prairie flame,
Sweeping on to the sun-setting shore:
Gazing now on its waves, but a handful of braves,
We shall join in the the chase nevermore
Till we camp on the plains where the Great Spirit reigns,
We shall join in the chase nevermore.
We receiv'd them with gladness, as Sons of the Sky
We believ'd them of heavenly birth;
But alas! to our sorrow we found by and by,
That like us they were born of the earth.
By their false traders wrong'd, by their firewater craz'd,
There was no one our braves to restrain;
So the swift flew, and the tomahawk was raise'd
While we both mourn'd the blood of our slain;
So the smoke-wreath did cease from the calumet of peace,
While we both mourn'd the blood of our slain.
When the oaks, pines and cedars were fell'd to the ground,
'Twas a sight that with sorrow we saw;
For the game fled affrighted, and no food was found
For the old chief, the papoose and squaw.
Driven westward we came, but the paleface was here,
With his sharp axe and death-flashing gun;
And his great iron horse is rumbling in the rear
"O, my brave men!" your journey is done.
Like the beaver and elk like the buffalo and deer
"O, my brave men!" your journey is done.
There was something she thought again in his mysterious smile,
She tried to forget him but it was not possible even for a little while
She got out of her bed and walked around in the corridor
She was not ready to accept but her heart knew whom she was waiting for
It was in the royal banquet where she had met him the previous day
They unknowingly met in quiet an unexpected way
It was less than a moment they had noticed each other
He gave an adorable look and smiled as if he knew her
His eyes fluttered open all of a sudden at the thought of her
She was a perfect young maiden or she was royal rather
He leaned over his windowsill while a white dove came over his shoulder
“I’m almost addicted to her” he said with his clear blue eyes staring at her
The morning had begun with wide and sweet smiles
But was neither everlasting nor lasted for a long while
In his study room he was when the wild news came in
His marriage was fixed on Saturday in the Whackers Inn
The young man tried to persuade his father but, in vain
He only knew about the trouble he had due the love that gave him pain
The young girl came to know that her love would never be in her midst
She decided it was time for her last breath as she decided that she too might not exist
When he came to know that she was no more in his life
He killed himself to save the life of the unknown girl who wanted to be his wife
At the funeral everyone thought about the coincidence, which made all wonder
Why the bride and the groom died as the planned together
He is said to have been the last Red man
In Action. And the Miller is said to have laughed--
If you like to call such a sound a laugh.
But he gave no one else a laugher's license.
For he turned suddenly grave as if to say,
'Whose business,--if I take it on myself,
Whose business--but why talk round the barn?--
When it's just that I hold with getting a thing done with.'
You can't get back and see it as he saw it.
It's too long a story to go into now.
You'd have to have been there and lived it.
They you wouldn't have looked on it as just a matter
Of who began it between the two races.
Some guttural exclamation of surprise
The Red man gave in poking about the mill
Over the great big thumping shuffling millstone
Disgusted the Miller physically as coming
From one who had no right to be heard from.
'Come, John,' he said, 'you want to see the wheel-pint?'
He took him down below a cramping rafter,
And showed him, through a manhole in the floor,
The water in desperate straits like frantic fish,
Salmon and sturgeon, lashing with their tails.
The he shut down the trap door with a ring in it
That jangled even above the general noise,
And came upstairs alone--and gave that laugh,
And said something to a man with a meal-sack
That the man with the meal-sack didn't catch--then.
Oh, yes, he showed John the wheel-pit all right.
(For Alden March)
With drooping sail and pennant
That never a wind may reach,
They float in sunless waters
Beside a sunless beach.
Their mighty masts and funnels
Are white as driven snow,
And with a pallid radiance
Their ghostly bulwarks glow.
Here is a Spanish galleon
That once with gold was gay,
Here is a Roman trireme
Whose hues outshone the day.
But Tyrian dyes have faded,
And prows that once were bright
With rainbow stains wear only
Death's livid, dreadful white.
White as the ice that clove her
That unforgotten day,
Among her pallid sisters
The grim Titanic lay.
And through the leagues above her
She looked aghast, and said:
"What is this living ship that comes
Where every ship is dead?"
The ghostly vessels trembled
From ruined stern to prow;
What was this thing of terror
That broke their vigil now?
Down through the startled ocean
A mighty vessel came,
Not white, as all dead ships must be,
But red, like living flame!
The pale green waves about her
Were swiftly, strangely dyed,
By the great scarlet stream that flowed
From out her wounded side.
And all her decks were scarlet
And all her shattered crew.
She sank among the white ghost ships
And stained them through and through.
The grim Titanic greeted her
"And who art thou?" she said;
"Why dost thou join our ghostly fleet
Arrayed in living red?
We are the ships of sorrow
Who spend the weary night,
Until the dawn of Judgment Day,
Obscure and still and white."
"Nay," said the scarlet visitor,
"Though I sink through the sea,
A ruined thing that was a ship,
I sink not as did ye.
For ye met with your destiny
By storm or rock or fight,
So through the lagging centuries
Ye wear your robes of white.
"But never crashing iceberg
Nor honest shot of foe,
Nor hidden reef has sent me
The way that I must go.
My wound that stains the waters,
My blood that is like flame,
Bear witness to a loathly deed,
A deed without a name.
"I went not forth to battle,
I carried friendly men,
The children played about my decks,
The women sang -- and then --
And then -- the sun blushed scarlet
And Heaven hid its face,
The world that God created
Became a shameful place!
"My wrong cries out for vengeance,
The blow that sent me here
Was aimed in Hell.  My dying scream
Has reached Jehovah's ear.
Not all the seven oceans
Shall wash away that stain;
Upon a brow that wears a crown
I am the brand of Cain."
When God's great voice assembles
The fleet on Judgment Day,
The ghosts of ruined ships will rise
In sea and strait and bay.
Though they have lain for ages
Beneath the changeless flood,
They shall be white as silver,
But one -- shall be like blood.
First, grant me my sense of history:
I did it for posterity,
for kindergarten teachers
and a clear moral:
Little girls shouldn't wander off
in search of strange flowers,
and they mustn't speak to strangers.
And then grant me my generous sense of plot:
Couldn't I have gobbled her up
right there in the jungle?
Why did I ask her where her grandma lived?
As if I, a forest-dweller,
didn't know of the cottage
under the three oak trees
and the old woman lived there
all alone?
As if I couldn't have swallowed her years before?
And you may call me the Big Bad Wolf,
now my only reputation.
But I was no child-molester
though you'll agree she was pretty.
And the huntsman:
Was I sleeping while he snipped
my thick black fur
and filled me with garbage and stones?
I ran with that weight and fell down,
simply so children could laugh
at the noise of the stones
cutting through my belly,
at the garbage spilling out
with a perfect sense of timing,
just when the tale
should have come to an end.
This red balloon with broken string is floating into the sky,
I watch it swaying and jerking, as it enters the atmosphere,
Lost sadly to this earth of ours, it now says a last goodbye,
Sailing towards the fleecy clouds, it invites the wind to steer.
Had a small hand let go the string, so escape was rather fast,
Twirling away, those powerful currents assuring a final climb.
Slowly receding into the blue, disappearing back to the past,
Lost in that extensive vast place, a gap in space and time.
Unencumbered now, it unhurriedly continues to journey on,
Perhaps it was a child's treasure, a simple pleasing thing,
Thinking about it, to whom I wonder, did it once belong,
This red balloon, that's floating with a trailing broken string.
©   Ernestine Northover
Laid out for dead, let thy last kindness be
With leaves and moss-work for to cover me;
And while the wood-nymphs my cold corpse inter,
Sing thou my dirge, sweet-warbling chorister!
For epitaph, in foliage, next write this:
HERE, HERE THE TOMB OF ROBIN HERRICK IS!
A smile on my face - Will never reach my eyes
You see laughs and jokes - they see all the lies
You bleed red and I bleed black
You're so great and I'm off track
You're the stick and I'm so not
You beat everything I've got
You have friends while I have none
When I'm sad you're having fun
You're so good and I'm so bad
That's the reason that I'm sad
Tommorow I'll be smiling - but my face is set in stone
The next I'll be gone - you'll be the one that's all alone
Walking some days
the light of the plains shines.
A fresh wind blows over the green wheat
and the greyhounds come running to me,
riding on my bike
A lonely and happy boy.
There are days when time flies back.
My bike does not move forward any more
and the greyhounds look at me in the distance.
They don´t get close to see me coming back.
I am not alone any more
and the mountains hide the light of the plains.
A faded rainbow splits in the shameful dusk
And prying stars scatter in multitude.
The dull sky almost a sparkle
And drizzle stops for a while.
The best actors in the world get ready in their ghettos for the rehearsal.
The beginners have no alternative in this low waged tragedy
And they grab the oldest profession.
Finally the pussyfoot greedy customers
Donate their hidden sicknesses
And it seems the each performer gets entr'acte of this chain reaction.
I dedicate this poem to the poetess Suzie.Gharib in gratitude.
* These stereotyped individuals are the victims of morality and their heartbeat is the Morse code of social imbalance. Life is not easy on this planet earth, though it rotates yet not a Merry-go-round.
Always remember to forget
The things that made you sad
But never forget to remember
The things that made you glad
Always remember to forget
The friends that proved untrue
But never forget to remember
Those that have stuck by you
Always remember to forget
The troubles that have passed away
But never forget to remember
The blessings that come each day
Always remember to ignore
The drawbacks that made you sad,
But never ignore to remember
The events that made you glad.
Always remember to ignore
The associates that proved untrue,
But never ignore to remember
Those that were loyal to you.
Always remember to ignore
The worries that have faded away,
But never ignore to remember
The bliss that comes your way.
We share the same cabin while the rest of the passengers sleep.
Jack and Coke for two, we spill out our lives... our love.
Yours lost, mine found.
For the voyage we fall in love and in that cabin the stewards talk about us behind our backs.  You tell me I have a special spirit, but I don't believe in such things.  I tell you that you amaze me with your tenacity and drive, but you don't believe in such things.
At the end you kiss my hands with tears in your eyes.
No one will wait at the Empire State building.
The entire affair ends when we depart, never repeated except in our memories.
I'll just take my ego for a walk.
we had goldfish and they circled around and around
in the bowl on the table near the heavy drapes
covering the picture window and
my mother, always smiling, wanting us all
to be happy, told me, 'be happy Henry!'
and she was right: it's better to be happy if you
can
but my father continued to beat her and me several times a week while
raging inside his 6-foot-two frame because he couldn't
understand what was attacking him from within.
my mother, poor fish,
wanting to be happy, beaten two or three times a
week, telling me to be happy: 'Henry, smile!
why don't you ever smile?'
and then she would smile, to show me how, and it was the
saddest smile I ever saw
one day the goldfish died, all five of them,
they floated on the water, on their sides, their
eyes still open,
and when my father got home he threw them to the cat
there on the kitchen floor and we watched as my mother
smiled
As parents remember that you are the only original guide,
Mom and dad set the mold or pattern for children’s lives,
Proverbs 22: 6, “train up a child in the way he should go, ”
Early instruction signifies what direction the wind will blow.
Grab a Webster’s dictionary, looking up the word esteem,
Put the words high then low before, now what does it mean?
If it’s the latter, you’re seeking an excuse to quit and do less,
Or are you that someone who looks forward to the test?
Ecclesiastes 7: 1, a 'good name' sets the standard boundary,
I understand this to mean it is giving rules a basic legitimacy,
Sure is tough being a parent harder than I ever thought it’d be,
Only now do I understand what parents went through with me.
Hindsight is the best sight; “If I could do it all over again” is true,
However, since that is just impossible start now and begin anew,
All children will grow older and at eighteen most will know it all,
Feeling no need whatsoever to answer or obey their parent’s call.
If some didn’t at fifteen or earlier, then just what are we to do?
Constantly remind them God all things begin and end with You,
Not by what we tell them since action speaks louder than words,
Forget passively as a noun, but radical instruction like the verb.
Hey parents! At home you cuss, you smoke, you drink,
When your kids grow-up they will, what do you think?
However, everyday they see you read the bible & pray,
Your children’s children will respond in the same way.
Does it always turn out like this, how about the majority?
Those whom do not pick up these habits are a minority,
Till they leave home most will do what whatever’s seen,
Are you loving, kind, compassionate or down right mean?
As we diligently tutor our off spring an example will be set,
Do you trample over others? Taking all that you can get?
Punishment from God isn’t always, swift as it should be,
Remember mom and dad won’t have the luxury of eternity.
Many children are afflicted from the very first breath taken in time,
Thanks to parents who have nothing but themselves on their mind,
Starvation, sickness, beatings, crying for various reasons day & night,
Because those responsible for birth had to be a couple of butt-wipes.
The Rose
The rose will wither in the days to come
However, not the memories of where it is from.
In a vase stands tall your  rose,
When it dies, I will find a book
To press its  Memory for a later look,
your Precious rose will never die,
To live on, a feast for
Someone’ else’s  eyes.
Written by Charles Garcia
2005
Body, remember not only how much you were loved
not only the beds you lay on.
but also those desires glowing openly
in eyes that looked at you,
trembling for you in voices-
only some chance obstacle frustrated them.
Now that it's all finally in the past,
it seems almost as if you gave yourself
to those desires too-how they glowed,
remember, in eyes that looked at you,
remember, body, how they trembled for you in those voices.
Can't forget you
Only remember
A Grandad more unique than any other!
I don't remember much.
I will remember this,
You are my Grandad,
Who I'll deffinatley miss.
A giant afro sat above your head,
Sneak into the kitchen,
For a quick cigarette
Even if you were caught,
There were no excuses made,
Quick thinkin' smooth talker.
Someone else was to blame!
Announcing names,
For the draw on sunday,
Playing pool for the win,
Accused for a fix,
Never afraid at the night of games.
A good old laugh,
With a good old man
A jolly old fellow,
With a good long past.
You've been around for many years,
many memories to be remembered,
We wont forget you,
Becuase we cant. Its' just to hard.
even if we tried,
You would still live on
In all our lives.
I love you Grandad
Christine P., if you read this, i still remember you
more than i should
more than you know
you have never strayed far from my mind,
eclipsed between
my waking memory and a smoky dream
i remember you in Sixth Grade,
passing steaming notes to me
during study hall, stealing kisses from me
at recess, making out with me
behind the convent during lunch and
teaching me more about a girl’s body
than a 12-year old boy should know
i remember caressing your
budding pincushion breasts, feeling your
impatient tongue in my mouth, and tracing the curves
of your smooth hips way up
beneath your plaid Catholic skirt
i never forgot the innocence and curiosity
with which we explored each other’s
young bodies for few of my intimate
encounters since have bested those wide-eyed moments
i never forgot you, Christine P.
not with all the drugs and heartbreak did i forget!
the mother of my daughter even
resembles you; my final recollection of you -
the way you looked
before you moved away - with her
short brown hair, velveteen belly and
agile, eager hands
i remember telling you once in a letter
that i wanted to marry you
and that’s when we lost touch...
maybe i’ve ploughed thru each
of my liaisons
searching for you all along
in an attempt to reclaim that
feeling of complete gullibility and virtue
for my love life has left little more
for me to discover
you were indeed my first, Christine
while you did not surrender me your virginity,
you gave me your body to tease and your mouth to enjoy
and i wonder if your first time was as clumsy as mine
was it on your honeymoon cruise or
in the backseat of his beat-up Ford?
did you marry at all or keep your maiden name?
do you remember me as well as
i remember you?
because i wonder, too, if you will
ever find this poem,
hidden amongst the weeds of
other poems to my bygone girlfriends
whose names have scarred over
and faded with time
Dearest one, do you remember,
As we sat side by side,
How you told me that you loved me,
Asked me to be your bride.
And you told me we'd be happy,
Through all the years to come,
If we ever would prove faithful,
As in the days when we were young.
Oh! how well do I remember,
The kind and loving words,
And now as I sat dreaming,
The thoughts my memory stirs.
But the days have passed before me,
And the scenes of long ago,
But I can never forget the
Days that have passed o'er.
Oh! how clearly I remember
The days when we were young,
How we would tell to each other
Of happy times to come,
And as we would sit together,
That dear loved one and I,
Oh, sat dreaming of the future,
And childhood days gone by.
Dearest love, do you remember
The first time that we met --
Our youthful days have gone, love,
I hope you love me yet,
Now we are growing old, love,
Our heads will soon be gray,
May we ever love each other
Till from earth we pass away.
Do I remember you
from so many years ago?
The man with a gentle touch
and loving hands,
the softest shoulder
to cry upon...
budding passion,
almost lovers,
undermined and rent by fate...
So many miles away...
the years have passed,
our mirrors echo
youthful faces all aglow,
lives lived on tandem shores.
As silent arms reach through the ages
spanning years from then to now,
unseen fingers ply the keyboard
filling in the time between.
Love and memories come flooding
into present from the past
and I cry from just one letter.
Yes, I do remember you.
Dost thou remember ever, for my sake,
When we two rowed upon the rock-bound lake?
How the wind-fretted waters blew their spray
About our brows like blossom-falls of May
One memorable day?
Dost thou remember the glad mouth that cried--
"Were it not sweet to die now side by side,
To lie together tangled in the deep
Close as the heart-beat to the heart--so keep
The everlasting sleep?"
Dost thou remember? Ah, such death as this
Had set the seal upon my heart's young bliss!
But, wrenched asunder, severed and apart,
Life knew a deadlier death: the blighting smart
Which only kills the heart.
We remember our fathers
They remember their sons
Who fought long battles
And paid with their lives
We remember the glories
We have forgotten the pain, ,
of the widows and orphans,
of those who will never return again.
We remember the machinery
With which battles were fought
But the names of the fallen
Are all but forgot.
We remember, we say
With the crimson petalled poppy
And silence at eleven
On Remembrance Day
But of all the boys and men
Who fought wars large and small
Paying dearly with their lives
Do we really remember them, at all?
9 Nov 1986
I remember when you said I love you
I remember when I said yeah me too
I remember when you said love me
I remember when you carved our names in that old oak tree
I remember our first kiss
and I ignored the fact that you missed
I remember when you said together...always
I remember when I stood in front of you dazzled and amazed
I remember the sparkle in your eyes and
I remember the tears you made me cry
I remember when I could never be truly honest with you
I remember me packing, and you asking is there anything that I can do
I remember when I looked into your eyes and
I remember when we said our goodbyes
"Do you remember me? or are you proud?"
Lightly advancing thro' her star-trimm'd crowd,
Ianthe said, and lookt into my eyes,
"A yes, a yes, to both: for Memory
Where you but once have been must ever be,
And at your voice Pride from his throne must rise."
Do you remember once, in Paris of glad faces,
The night we wandered off under the third moon's rays
And, leaving far behind bright streets and busy places,
Stood where the Seine flowed down between its quiet quais?
The city's voice was hushed; the placid, lustrous waters
Mirrored the walls across where orange windows burned.
Out of the starry south provoking rumors brought us
Far promise of the spring already northward turned.
And breast drew near to breast, and round its soft desire
My arm uncertain stole and clung there unrepelled.
I thought that nevermore my heart would hover nigher
To the last flower of bliss that Nature's garden held.
There, in your beauty's sweet abandonment to pleasure,
The mute, half-open lips and tender, wondering eyes,
I saw embodied first smile back on me the treasure
Long sought across the seas and back of summer skies.
Dear face, when courted Death shall claim my limbs and find them
Laid in some desert place, alone or where the tides
Of war's tumultuous waves on the wet sands behind them
Leave rifts of gasping life when their red flood subsides,
Out of the past's remote delirious abysses
Shine forth once more as then you shone, -- beloved head,
Laid back in ecstasy between our blinding kisses,
Transfigured with the bliss of being so coveted.
And my sick arms will part, and though hot fever sear it,
My mouth will curve again with the old, tender flame.
And darkness will come down, still finding in my spirit
The dream of your brief love, and on my lips your name.
II
You loved me on that moonlit night long since.
You were my queen and I the charming prince
Elected from a world of mortal men.
You loved me once. . . . What pity was it, then,
You loved not Love. . . . Deep in the emerald west,
Like a returning caravel caressed
By breezes that load all the ambient airs
With clinging fragrance of the bales it bears
From harbors where the caravans come down,
I see over the roof-tops of the town
The new moon back again, but shall not see
The joy that once it had in store for me,
Nor know again the voice upon the stair,
The little studio in the candle-glare,
And all that makes in word and touch and glance
The bliss of the first nights of a romance
When will to love and be beloved casts out
The want to question or the will to doubt.
You loved me once. . . . Under the western seas
The pale moon settles and the Pleiades.
The firelight sinks; outside the night-winds moan --
The hour advances, and I sleep alone.
III
Farewell, dear heart, enough of vain despairing!
If I have erred I plead but one excuse --
The jewel were a lesser joy in wearing
That cost a lesser agony to lose.
I had not bid for beautifuller hours
Had I not found the door so near unsealed,
Nor hoped, had you not filled my arms with flowers,
For that one flower that bloomed too far afield.
If I have wept, it was because, forsaken,
I felt perhaps more poignantly than some
The blank eternity from which we waken
And all the blank eternity to come.
And I betrayed how sweet a thing and tender
(In the regret with which my lip was curled)
Seemed in its tragic, momentary splendor
My transit through the beauty of the world.
Can I describe with words,
what has no features?
Can I describe with music,
what has no sound?
Can I describe with colour,
what cannot be seen?
Can I describe with action,
what does not move?
Can I describe with numbers,
what has no dimension?
Where all else fails
poetry begins to show
a world that few can mention.
But every one does know
this world which quietly
hides from our inattention.
It’s that which finds you
only when you’re willing
and all about is stilling.
Do you remember?
Do you remember when we would laugh because we thought alike?
It’s over.
Do you remember when we would dream of our future, laughing
in the face of all likelihood?
It’s over.
Do you remember when you hurt, and i could do nothing for it, but love you- which i did, without holding back for anything?
It’s over.
Do you remember falling in love?
It’s over.
Do you remember being friends, but wanting more?
It’s over.
Why is it over?
Don’t you remember the feeling?
Don’t you want what you said you wanted, then?
Do you remember what you said you wanted?
Why is it over?
I never ended it,
And I never would.
Why did you?
Don’t you remember?
The river in December
Do you remember?
When time was graying
Old leaves decaying?
We walked by that water,
That mindless water.
Watching two leaves in their reflection
Swept away without direction.
We walked by that water,
That mindless water.
Following them until we were frozen
For there was no end to that way once chosen.
They sat hidden in the shadows
and talked amongst themselves.
I doubt they would've noticed
if their servers had been elves.
He was entangled in her beauty
and the things that she would say.
There were moments interrupted
but he never looked away.
The waiter took their orders
and he served them both their meals.
I couldn't help but envy them...
''I remember how that feels...''
To feel the world is spinning
just for the both of you.
Everything's exciting
and there's nothing you won't do.
If only we could bottle
all the passion of those years
to use when it is needed most
to help wash off the tears.
Sometimes it seems impossible
to feel as we did then.
Perhaps we can go back there.
Do you ''Remember when...''?
There are faces,
I remember.
Like pearls in the sand,
Diamonds among shells.
Faces I remember,
The Great One,
And Bogart,
Elvis and John.
'Everyone dies...'
But you don't miss everyone,
You just miss faces.
Like an old pet,
A first kiss,
A lost love.
I guess we owe them thanks,
I guess we do.
Thanks for the memories,
How sweet they are.
you with the blonde hair
who smoked too much weed
you were my favorite.
High on cough syrup
I asked you to be my girl
told you I was thinking about
another town
a new start
but if you’d be my girl,
I’d stay
you agreed and we played in the park
that night for hours,
kissing and building miniature
stick houses
it took us half and hour maybe
to cross the bridge
and those Christians
slowed to walk with and
talk with us
they wanted us to know
that they cared
if you read this I want you to know
that I still care
you were always my favorite.
I don’t remember the word I wished to say.
The blind swallow returns to the hall of shadow,
on shorn wings, with the translucent ones to play.
The song of night is sung without memory, though.
No birds. No blossoms on the dried flowers.
The manes of night’s horses are translucent.
An empty boat drifts on the naked river.
Lost among grasshoppers the word’s quiescent.
It swells slowly like a shrine, or a canvas sheet,
hurling itself down, mad, like Antigone,
or falls, now, a dead swallow at our feet.
with a twig of greenness, and a Stygian sympathy.
O, to bring back the diffidence of the intuitive caress,
and the full delight of recognition.
I am so fearful of the sobs of The Muses,
the mist, the bell-sounds, perdition.
Mortal creatures can love and recognise: sound may
pour out, for them, through their fingers, and overflow:
I don’t remember the word I wished to say,
and a fleshless thought returns to the house of shadow.
The translucent one speaks in another guise,
always the swallow, dear one, Antigone....
on the lips the burning of black ice,
and Stygian sounds in the memory.
If tomorrow doesn’t come
Please forget all the fights
But please remember my face.
If tomorrow doesn’t come
Please forget the name calling
But please remember the smiles.
If tomorrow doesn’t come
Please forget the down times
But please remember our laughter together.
If tomorrow doesn’t come
Please forget the lonely nights crying
But please remember the many hugs after those nights.
If tomorrow doesn’t come
Please forget the yelling
But please remember the good talks after.
If tomorrow doesn’t come
Please remember how much I care about you
Even though I don’t show it.
Please remember how much of an impact you have on my life.
Even though I don’t help you to acknowledge it.
Please remember how much I love you
Even though we fight more than we talk to each other.
Please remember that you are apart of what I am today
Even though I don’t ever say anything.
Please remember that I always care about you
Even though I am always in your business or your life too much than usual.
Please remember to smile if tomorrow doesn’t come
Please remember that I tried to make something out of your life and mine too.
Please remember my laughter
Please remember that I think of you everyday
Even though I don’t make contact with you.
So if tomorrow never comes
Please remember the good times more than the bad
Please remember to make the best of life and never be too sad.
I hardly remember your voice, but the pain of you
floats in some remote current of my blood.
I carry you in my depths, trapped in the sludge
like one of those corpses the sea refuses to give up.
It was a spoiled remnant of the South. A beach
without fishing boats, where the sun was for sale.
A stretch of shore, now a jungle of lights and languages
that grudgingly offered, defeated, its obligation of sand.
The night of that day punished us at its whim.
I held you so close I could barely see you.
Autumn was brandishing guffaws and dancebands
and the sea tore at the pleasure-boats in a frenzy.
Your hand balanced, with its steady heat,
the wavering tepidness of alcohol. The gardens
came at me from far away through your skirt.
My high-tide mark rose to the level of your breasts.
Carpets, like tentacles, wriggling down to the strand,
attracted passers-by to the mouth of the clamor.
With lights and curtains, above the tedium
the bedrooms murmured in the grand hotels.
There are dark moments when our ballast gives out
from so much banging around. Moments, or centuries,
when the flesh revels in its nakedness and reels
to its own destruction, sucking the life from itself.
I groped around me, trying on your embrace,
but love was not where your embrace was.
I felt your hands stroking that physical ache
but a great nothing went before your hands.
I searched, down the length of your soulless surrender,
for a calm bay where I could cast a net,
yearning to hear a trace of the vendor's voice
still wet with the glimmer of the flapping minnows.
It was a spoiled remnant of the South. The aroma
of muscatel was tainted with whiskey breath.
I carry that dead embrace inside me yet
like a foreign object the flesh tries to reject.
Translated by Sandy Mckinney
Submitted by Venus
It's funny how time slips away
On those long summer nights,
I had sat down at my balcony,
I had gazed at the stars,
I had cried all night,
I had cried tears` of 'Good -bye': But
I had to keep on going without your love
Living my life the way I choose to
Discovering the things that are left for me to do
Doing the things that I love
Let there be light
Don't give excuses
Don't wait for answers
Don't wait for tomorrow
Don't ask me why
No need to be angry anymore
No need to wait anymore
For this special day, special hour,
No need to fight, just follow him, because
The Lord has come to set you free
The Lord has come to take you home
A place with no more pain and sorrows
Where you will find comfort and peace
Maybe someday, you will meet me again
A time has come to say” Good-bye'
I'll remember you in my dreams
I'll remember you in my sleep
I'll remember you each day and every hour of the day
I'll remember you for all the good things you have done for me
I'll remember you for the special time we spent together.
I'll remember you in my prayers
I'll remember you for the kind of person you were
I'll remember you every night
I'll remember you for your special smiles and laughter
I'll remember you
I remember, I remember
the house where I was born
before foreclosure took away
the homestead I had sworn
in good faith, all attest 'tis true,
to leave grandchildren three: -
times change, leave little rest, I rue
that difference to me!
It seems so very long ago
the liberating Yanks
found welcome everywhere they'd go -
though some were pita swanks,
but since the Shah announced 'I ran'
our bearings all at sea
became - time reeled again would ban
all difference for me!
I remember, I remember
the sun porch, now in pawn,
proud flag a flying red, white, blue,
which now hangs so forlorn
Sun, moon spun round each priceless day,
or so I seemed to see,
four bucks a gallon gas I pay -
what difference to me!
My mind thought then nostalgic ease
eternally could last,
all my desires, priorities
seemed sated very fast,
The fever on my brow shoots higher
now Sheiks of Araby,
up ante for crude imports, tire -
what difference to me!
I remember, I remember
before Alaskan oil
had spilled upon once pristine shore,
polluting fauna, soil.
With climate change I'm feeling sore,
note each commodity
continues rising more and more -
what difference to me!
Back then I'd travel aimlessly,
cared not I ran Iraq,
from dawn till dark, from sea to sea
could, rising with the lark,
ignore the cost of gasoline
in land of liberty:
my budget now seems far more lean,
what difference to me!
I remember, I remember
before FEMA's disgrace,
I never thought dark terrorists
I might meet face to face,
Days fifty two times seven cheap,
no need to spare expense,
I'm farther now from Heaven's keep:
Oh boy!  What difference!
(c)  Jonathan Robin - Parody written 4 June 2008
Variations on a theme - I remember Thomas Hood - Enjoy!
Past and Present
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born,
The little window where the sun
Came peeping in at morn;
He never came a wink too soon
Nor bought too long a day;
But now, I often wish the night
Had borne my breath away.
I remember, I remember
The roses, red and white,
The violets, and the lily-cups-
Those flowers made of light!
The lilacs where the robin built,
And where my brother set
The laburnum on his birthday, -
The tree is living yet!
I remember, I remember
Where I was used to swing,
And throught the air must rush as fresh
To swallows on the wing;
My spirit flew in feathers then
That is so heavy now,
And summer pools could hardly cool
The fever on my brow.
I remember, I remember
The fir frees dark and high;
I used to think their slender tops
Were close against the sky:
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from Heaven
Than when I was a boy.
Thomas Hood 1799_1845
HOOD Thomas 1799_1845 hood1_0007_hood1_0000  PXX_JZX Past and Present_I remember, I remember
I Remember
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born;
The rent was thirty-two a month,
Which made my father mourn.
He said he could remember when
His father paid the rent;
And when a man's expenses did
Not take his every cent.
I remember, I remember-
My mother telling my cousin
That eggs had gone to twenty-six
Or seven cents a dozen;
And how she told my father that
She didn't like to speak
Of things like that, but Bridget now
Demanded four a week.
I remember, I remember-
And with a mirthless laugh-
My weekly board at college took
A jump to three and a half.
I bought an eighteen-dollar suit,
And father told me, 'Sonny,
I'll pay the bill this time, but, Oh,
I am not made out of money! '
I remember, I remember,
When I was young and brave
And I declared, 'Well, Birdie, we
Shall now begin to save.'
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from wealth
Than when I was a boy.
Franklin Pierce ADAMS 1881_1960 Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  -  I Remember
I Remember
I remember, I remember,
When I discovered porn.
The little book that gave a boy -
Or so I heard – the horn:
It never meant a wank to me,
Nor did it drive me mad.
But in a funny kind of way
I often wish it had.
I remember, I remember,
The tweeny walking by,
I used to think her stocking-tops
Were close against her thigh:
It was a childish innocence.
But now ‘tis little joy
To know my thoughts are just as pure
As when I was a boy.
Naomi MARKS
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
I Remember
I remember, I remember,
The house where I was wed,
And the little room from which, that night,
My smiling bride was led;
She didn’t come a wink too soon,
Nor make too long a stay;
But now I often wish her folks
Had kept the girl away!
I remember, I remember,
Her dresses, red and white,
Her bonnets and her caps and cloaks, -
The cost an awful sight!
The “corner lot” on which I built,
And where my brother met
At first my wife, one washing-day, -
That man is single yet!
I remember, I remember,
Where I was used to court,
And thought that all of married life*
Was just such pleasant sport:
My spirit flew in feathers then,
No care was on my brow;
I scarce could wait to shut the gate, -
I’m not so anxious now!
I remember, I remember,
My dear one’s smile and sigh;
I used to think her tender heart
Was close against the sky;
It was a childish ignorance,
But now it soothes me not
To know I’m farther off from heaven
Then when she wasn’t got!
Phoebe CARY
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
I Remember
I remember, I remember,
(I wish I’d ne’er been born)
The little widow and her son
Came creeping in forlorn;
She never gave a wink too soon
Till he had gone to play;
But now, I oft regret that larks
Had borne that boy away.
I remember, I remember
The presents dear and cheap,
The letters and the valentines –
And othr things a heap!
The cottage which the masons built,
And where her youngster set
The pin pin upon the big arm chair –
That boy is living yet!
I remember, I remember
Her neck Itried to wring,
And saw the boy run out Pall Mall
Two peelers quick to bring;
My hair it flew in masses then,
I got a heavy blow,
The cold dark cell could hardly cool
The swelling on my brow.
I remember, I remember
A fair man, broad and hig;
I used to think his slender hair
Did match his clothes and tie;
It showed a childish ignorance,
But now ‘tis little joy
To know she ran away with him,
And left that awful boy.
Archibald STODART-WALKER 1869_1934
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
“I remember, I remember,
The day that I was born,
When first I saw this breathing world,
All naked and forlorn,
They wrapped me in a linen cloth,
And then in one of frieze;
And tho’ I could not speak just then,
I still contrived to sneeze.”
“I remember, I remember,
Old ladies came from far;
Some said I was like mother dear,
But others thought like Pa;
Yet all agreed I had a head,
And most expressive eyes;
The latter were about as large
As plums in Christmas pies.”
Notes and Queries UNEDA pseudonym Philadelphia 10 June 1871
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
I remember, I remember,
The cell, which now I scorn,
The little window where no sun
Could cheer the dreary morn.
Policeman X, no wink too son,
Brought in my musty fare,
And, growling as he went away,
Locked me in safely there!
I remember, I remember,
We’d been out late at night,
Twain herons who, o’er sundry cups,
Wound up by “getting tight; ”
And then although no blood was spilt,
That fiend in blue we met;
“Run in” upon my natal day –
Oh, would I could forget.
I remember, I remember,
No sofa would he bring,
He said the air seem’d rather fresh
For night birds on the wing!
The spirits needed feathers then,
And rest my fevered brow;
He only said, “The place is cool, ”
And, “Mind! don’t make a row! ”
Author Unknown - The Figaro  7 March 1874
Parody Thomas HOOD 1799_1845  I Remember – Past and Present
Lucy
She dwelt among the untrodden ways
Beside the springs of Dove
A maid whom there were none to praise
And very few to love.
A violet by a mossy stone
Half-hidden from the eye;
Fair as a star when only one
Is shining in the sky.
She lived unknown, and few could know
When Lucy ceased to be;
But she is in her grave, and, oh,
The difference to me!
William WORDSWORTH 1770_1850
see also numerous parodies on the above including
Lucy's Cousin
He lived amidst th’untrodden ways
To Rydal lake that lead;
A bard whom there were none to praise,
And very few to read.
Behind a cloud his mystic sense,
Deep hidden, who can spy?
Bright as the night when not a star
Is shining in the sky.
Unread his works – his “Milk White Doe”
With dust is dark and dim;
It’s still in Longman’s shop, and oh!
The difference to him!
Hartley COLERIDGE 1796_1849
Parody William WORDSWORTH - Lucy
A Song of the Cambridge Streets
We dwelt where youthful brains grow ripe,
A town not drain’d too well,
With here and there a choky pipe,
And here and there a smell.
They tore up streets, they dug below,
They made a deal of fuss,
Now sick’ning manholes reek, and oh!
The difference to us!
Walter William SKEAT – 1835_1912
Parody William Wordsworth Lucy and Alfred Tennyson The Brook
The Amateur Botanist
A primrose by a river's brim
‘Primula vulgaris’ was to him,
And it was nothing more;
A pansy, delicately reared,
‘Viola tricolor’ appeared
In true botanic lore.
That which a pink the layman deems
‘Dianthus caryophyllus’ seems
To any flower-fan; or
A sunflower, in that talk of his,
‘Annuus helianthus’ is,
And it is nothing more.
Toboganning on Parnassus
Franklin Pierce ADAMS Parody William WORDSWORTH Lucy
_____________
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born;
The rent was thirty-two a month,
Which made my father mourn.
He said he could remember when
His father paid the rent;
And when a man's expenses did
Not take his every cent.
I remember, I remember--
My mother telling my cousin
That eggs had gone to twenty-six
Or seven cents a dozen;
And how she told my father that
She didn't like to speak
Of things like that, but Bridget now
Demanded four a week.
I remember, I remember--
And with a mirthless laugh--
My weekly board at college took
A jump to three and a half.
I bought an eighteen-dollar suit,
And father told me, "Sonny,
I'll pay the bill this time, but, Oh,
I am not made out of money!"
I remember, I remember,
When I was young and brave
And I declared, "Well, Birdie, we
Shall now begin to save."
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from wealth
Than when I was a boy.
I Remember, I Remember
I remember, I remember
The house where I was born,
The little window where the sun
Came peeping in at morn;
He never came a wink too soon
Nor brought too long a day;
But now, I often wish the night
Had borne my breath away.
I remember, I remember
The roses red and white,
The violets and the lily cups--
Those flowers made of light!
The lilacs where the robin built,
And where my brother set
The laburnum on his birthday,--
The tree is living yet!
I remember, I remember
Where I was used to swing,
And thought the air must rush as fresh
To swallows on the wing;
My spirit flew in feathers then
That is so heavy now,
The summer pools could hardly cool
The fever on my brow.
I remember, I remember
The fir-trees dark and high;
I used to think their slender tops
Were close against the sky:
It was a childish ignorance,
But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from Heaven
Than when I was a boy.
i remember,
i remember, yes,
i remember,
when we were
in September
on late summer
near the Black Sea,
i was with you and he,
upon a dead calm sea,
you remember too?
our eldest son four years old, intelligent enough to swim,
but he hardly reached the brim,
the edge of the beaches where to begin,
alike as he had begun,
to swim for fun,
upon that dead calm sea
i remember,
i remember, yes,
i remember,
when we were there
in September....
photo Mamaia Beach, Romania by Google
©Sylvia Frances Chan - All Rights Reserved
Monday 2 March 2020
At 9.56 hrs A.M. Dutch Time
I remember Mama
blowing chewing gum bubbles
to entertain us
while she ironed.
I was too young for school
Sesame Street wasn’t invented yet
the rain was pouring outside
and I was awed.
I remember Mama
sewing at her machine into the night
when she had to get up early for work
patching a favorite pair of cutoffs
just one more time
or putting pockets on pants
because my little brother adored them
and I still hear her words
‘There’s all kinds of ways to say
I love you.’
I remember Mama
teaching us that beauty on the inside
was more important than on the outside.
‘A kind word to a stranger
might be the only kind word
that person heard all day’
... and how good it felt
finding out she was right.
I remember Mama
telling us to hold onto our dreams.
Make them happen and never say ‘I can’t’
and how funny I thought it
when she said
the world was our watermelon
and all we had to do was
grab it and take a bite.
I remember Mama
who taught us best by example
with her unconditional love.
Love isn’t love until it’s given away
and it’s in the giving that we know
it truly does come back ten-fold.
I remember, Mama.
I remember my childhood
Whenever I am in the mood
I remember my childhood
With the bad and the good
I remember my childhood
With the variety of available junk food
Funny, the old want to be young
While kids endeavour to be old and strong
Girls wanted to grow up fast as women
Boys wanted to grow up fast as men
Before they could walk right or learn
Those were good times
With very little crime
We had fun with little a dime
How is that for a rhyme?
Mum would call us for biscuits and cakes
While we played games and learnt from mistakes
We all went anxiously to school
To see what best pranks any of us could pull
I remember my childhood
I was always polite and not rude
I remember my childhood
If I could then you should
We as kids all had dreams
Which we shared as a team
We all loved to rock but hated homework
I mean what was the point of so much paperwork
And what is really bizarre
Is that I was always after
The bedtime stories from Mama and Papa
I also enjoyed the view of the nightly stars from afar
Same way I loved presents at Christmas and Easter
Mama always used to say
A gift no matter how little will lift anyone's spirit any day
I remember my childhood
And the adventures in the woods
I remember my childhood
With all the includes and excludes
I remember my childhood
And till today there are still things I've never understood
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
I remember going to your house,
Staying up till the early hours of morning
I remember shaving our legs together,
And putting on lotion;
I remember when we went to Winnipeg just a few weeks ago,
And tried on the really good-smelling perfume
I remember going to the park together,
Sometimes at lunch, sometimes after school
I remember “doing our homework”,
When really we just wanted to be together
I remember the first time you took me to your youth,
And saturate,
And our much fun we had
I remember having sleepovers,
How I would always fall asleep before you
I remember just this past year when,
For Christmas, you gave me love and reindeer socks
I remember writing notes to each other,
In class,
Sometimes getting caught, most often not
I remember using this type of font to do our E.L.A homework,
Of course waiting till the last minute
I remember your hugs and how you were most often there,
Even when I acted like a bear
I remember us being annoyed at each other a lot,
But we always made up the next day
I remember how cheesy this poem may be,
But I just wanted to say,
I love you **, and I will remember you till we meet again
(dedicated to Allysson)
When I looked into your eyes,
I knew it was true-
My heart never lies-
I was in love with you.
As you stood there
Just looking around
My whole body melted
into the ground.
I remember the day,
I remember the time,
I remember the place,
It is always on my mind.
You looked so good
In your shirt and jeans.
I remember that night
You were in my dreams.
I wished I could be with you
day after day,
Because I love you more
than words can ever say.
It was my bridal night I remember,
An old man of seventy-three
I lay with my young bride in my arms,
A girl with t.b.
It was wartime, and overhead
The Germans were making a particularly heavy raid on Hampstead.
Harry, do they ever collide?
I do not think it has ever happened,
Oh my bride, my bride.
I remember the day dad,
When you chased me around, to get me to hospital
For the treatment of fever which I had.
I remember the day dad,
When you scolded me and hit me
And later how you felt bad.
I remember the day dad,
When for the first time you took me to school
Leaving me there, how you felt sad.
I remember the day dad,
When I got into medical college
And with happiness you went mad.
I remember the day dad,
In your village, in front of your elders
How you behaved like an obedient lad.
I remember the day dad,
When we both felt upset
As India lost a test match in Trinidad.
I remember the day dad,
When I was feeling low and had lost all hope
But you always had a word of encouragement and advise to add.
I remember these entire days dad,
I cherish the memories of us together
To have had a father like you I am really lucky and glad.
I remember each and every day,
When you had so many things to do
And I always learnt something from you.
I remember the day
When i saw you walk away
And i felt like i would never see you again
I cried the whole way home
And couldn't even say why
I remember the day
When i felt a little bit of my heart break
I remember it like it was yesterday
And you had nothing to say
It was my turn to walk away
I remember the day
When you first told me you loved me
I had waited so long to hear it
Even though i didn't, at first, believe it
But to hear it was so relieving
I remember the days
Of you and of me
Of everything we thought we'd be
Of everything we wanted to be
And me begging you to remember me
I'll always remember the day
When i watch you walk away
To start the next part of your life
And i'll pray to one day be a part of that walk
but i'll never forget that day
I'll remember every day
As if each moment
Happened yesterday
I remember many things
about those days and you.
I remember staring into brown eyes
as though I couldn't get enough of them,
then burning the love I saw there
into a memory to keep for all time.
I remember how with you,
total silence could be so comfortable,
and how it was the only time
in my life I ever felt that to be so.
I remember how safe I felt with you.
Even the way you said my name
was different from how others said it
and I remember feeling
that even my name
was safe in your mouth.
I remember how sometimes
we made love all night
and stayed in bed all day,
then skinny dipping
to cool down
all the secret places
our lovemaking heated up.
I remember lying in your arms
in the afterglow and thinking
how profound it was,
the way the brain hitched a ride
when the body did all the work.
You were my miracle
in our own short season,
and it makes me remember
the last time I saw you
because I will never forget
the pain of my loss.
I remember well that summer place,
The sun, the sea, the surf soaked sand,
The light that lit your lovley face,
As we splashed bare foot, hand in hand.
And in the evening on the pier,
Our bodies sore from too much sun,
Tenderly I held you near,
We danced to Cyril Stapleton.
And later in that gox on wheels,
Laughingly called a caravan,
Where we cooked our meagre meals,
And loved as only lovers can.
And now so many years have passed,
I`ve grown old, (I hope with grace) .
Countless memories I`ve amassed,
But I remember well that summer place.
I remember when
Contry schools were in!
One teacher for K - 8
Always attentive and never late
Other kids brown bags more to fuss
Baked potatoes atop the furnace
Snow forts, games, Fox and Goose
Workup at softball, hang in there loose
How about those connections state?
Spelling contests and tests relate
Christmas programs and holidays
Valentine frill box, all those ways
Now to bring things up-to-date
To greet kindergarten teacher was my fate
53 years of time to span
Remembering clearly my whole clan
I remember, Yes, I remember
The Summer of forty - two
The sirens loud
The guns and bombs
In Britains struggle
To win through
And at that time,
A change of Schools
Sent me to Holly Park,
So strict but fair
No place to suffer fools
Then in these momentous day's
A happening so great
To shake my youthful way's.
I remember, yes, I remember
The girl that I saw there
In class 1a, the same as I
I tried hard not to stare
Her hair so dark and neat
With eyes more brown than brown
I glimpsed her in her seat.
And even then
My heartstring woke
And stirred within my mind.
Her name was Joyce
And plain to see
She was the girl for me,
We went through School
And not a class apart
Until our time was through
Fourteen, the year to leave
Our working life to start.
I remember, yes, I remember
The winter of forty - five
Her Schooldays done
Six months in front of mine,
This must be it!
She's gone
And I'd not sense to ask
To meet again
And could it be soon?
New way's for us so young
Find jobs and learn a trade.
A year slips by
Sad thoughts of date's not made.
I remember, yes, I remember
The winter of forty - six,
While working in my office
A new girl is employed
I know this girl!
It's Joyce's friend
From Holly Park our School!
I ask her how Joyce is
The answer 'very well'
I say 'and will you please
Ask if we can meet? '
The answer relayed back to me
It really is a yes!
The meet's arranged
Its in our lunch hour
We'll meet on her way home
Ten minutes by bus
And I am there
I know ehere she will walk
My tie is straight
Excitement tense
But can I sensibly talk?
I see her then
It's her and no mistake,
Her hair so dark
Eye's sparkling brown
The Schoolgirl that I knew
No longer was in view,
But here, grown up,
And very lovely too.
We talked and walked
To where she lived
Time short
Cant be late
I had to catch my bus
Must go, but then
I have just made the date!
I remember, yes, I remember
The evening of our first date,
Cold January twenty - nine,
I'm early (can not be late)
I wait outside the Odeon,
Who's cold? not me, I'm fine
The bus, a one-two-five
Comes rushing to a stop
I see her getting off and then
I greet her with a smile
Two two and nine's
The price I pay
The best seats in the house
And would she like some choc's?
The ones we both will always share
Our favourite, Dairy Box.
The film show over now
We stand for 'God save the King'
It's time to take her home,
We queue together at the stop
The wind blows freezing cold
I wrap my coat around us both
I say, to keep her warm
But truth to own
It brings us close
So I can look
Into her eyes so brown.
I remember, yes, I remember
The Autumn of Nineteen fifty,
Three happy years we've spent
Together all the while
And now it's National Service time
My call-up soon is sent
Two years to serve,
It's in the RAF,
How long to be apart?
It's not so bad
As I had thought
I often can get home
On many a week-end pass.
Our letters to each other
Pass daily in the post
Mine sometimes do contain
A short but loving rhyme,
And hers to me the same
But sometimes also this
End with a lipstick kiss.
My National Service days now done
I'm back in Civvis Street
So good to see her all the time
To make our plans complete.
Ten years have now gone by
Since the Summer of forty-two
When first I saw her face,
Then was it luck?
Or maybe fate?
That Winter of forty-six.
I remember, yes, I remember
The Summer of fifty-three,
The Queen and Coronation day,
But no, much more than that
In June that year our Wedding
At All Saints, Oakleigh Road,
I turn and look to see her
Coming down the Aisle
She's on her Father's arm
Her dress pure white
And darker shows her hair
Her eyes of course are shining brown
But finely covered by her veil
Then smiles that both we share,
She says 'I will' so softly
Then in my turn
I say that 'I will' too
A fine Reception
Enjoyed by all
Was in the Springfield Hall
Then came the time
For Bride and Groom to leave
The music, food and wine.
Her Mother came and held my hand
And said 'look after her'
She knew of course I would,
I said 'you know I will'
The best way that I could
I remember, yes, I remember
The Spring of fifty-seven
In March that year
Was born, and to our joy,
A healthy baby Boy.
Two years on,
Then April fifty-nine,
To put us in a whirl,
A lovely baby Girl.
I remember, yes, I remember
All the years since then,
A further forty-eight have passed.
So can it really be
Sixty years and five
Since that Summer of forty-two
When first we met in School
Two images have stayed
Fixed always in my mind,
Of Joyce at Holly Park School
Sitting at her desk,
And see her then so clear
Stepping from the Bus,
And knowing that from there
It'll be not you or me
But us.
I remember you as a dream
A poignant painting of love
Whispering echoes of truth
I remember you as a man
Words silkily caressing my soul
Silent reminders of beauty shared
I remember you as a kiss
A stain of molten lust
Capitulating in tumultuous need
I remember you as the sea
Waves consuming our tryst
Rocking in the purity of now
I remember you as my heart
Two pounding erotically as one
Savoring confessions from afar
I remember you…
See window sills,
And laughter smiles,
Funny walks,
When you were a child,
Singing songs out in the rain,
The sorrow, the heartache,
And the pain.
Such are the things of memories,
Times and laughters of the mind,
Times with you alone with me,
Times my mind must let me see.
Do you remember
Those times with me?
Do you remember?
Will your mind let you see?
And do you ever think of me?
Where I am, or who I'm seeing?
Do you remember us by the sea?
Do you, can you, remember me?
If not, then remember please,
That I remember you.
Early in the morning when the birds sings,
Light to this world the sun brings,
When the dew drops like pearls shine,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
When the sky is covered with blanket of clouds,
The lightning strikes and the thunder goes loud,
When the whole world drenches in rain time,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
When flowers bloom in spring season,
And smiles break out for no reason,
For romance when the weather is fine,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
In winter when the snow is all around,
And fog comes out of mouths instead of sound,
Looking at the cones of bare pine,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
When the ground is full of dried leaves in fall,
Of different colours from trees so tall,
Watching those ants busy working in a line,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
The time when love is in the air,
And roses and chocolates are everywhere,
The day of love, the day of valentine,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
In the cozy full moon night,
When cool breeze sends up chill of delight,
Tapping on the bench by my side,
I remember you in this heart of mine.
With bare feet I walk on the grass wet,
And relive the day we first met,
While listening to music with note divine,
I remember you in this heart of mine…
Oh, i remember Zimmy
Quiet, anxious, and young
But you never could believe a single damn word
That fell from Zimmy’s tongue
He’d play that beat-up guitar of his
Everyday in Maggie’s barn
Singin’ about some jilted maiden
Or spinnin’ some great yarn
he wasn’t much of a musician
he didn’t have much of a voice
but when he cranked out those crazy stories,
Zimmy really made some noise!
They say he packed his few possessions
And put his thumb out on the road
He disappeared from our small town
Headed out east, i’m told
None of us have heard from him since
Most of us doubt we will
As i walk by Old Maggie’s homestead
I think of Zimmy still...
Saw Zimmy’s New York face
On the cover of some hot shot magazine
Said he wrote a far-out song
About a man who played the tambourine
Said he wrote a far-out song
About a man who played the tambourine
It was August I remember
I remember when I met her
She was perfect I remember
in her body, mind and soul
In September I remember
I remember her all over
She was perfect I remember
in her body, mind and soul
In October I remember
I remember her all over
We were lovers I remember
in body, mind and soul
In November I remember
I remember lies she told me
She was wilful I remember
Wilful to the n'th degree
In December I remember
I remember it was over
Still, she is all that I remember
Love forever sweet Nicole
I know we've been together for so long
but there's something I've never said
It's not will you marry me
or we'll be together until the day we're dead
I'm not sayin I don't want to be with you
or we'll be together forever
Because I truly do
want to be with you
But I know we may not always be together
I'm not sayin I'd die for you
even though if it came down to it I would
I'm not sayin that you are sexy
Cause you know you have always looked good
I'm not sayin if you leave me
I'll cry and cry all the time
But even though I'd be sad
Maybe I'll just find another dime
But just because the things I'm sayin
May be ignorant but still true
Just remember the day when I told you
That I truly do love you
Copyright 6-22-07 ©® Corey Threet
PLEASE COMMENT!
When you're feeling down and blue
Just remember I love you.
When people have been mean and untrue
Just remember I love you.
When you feel sad and depressed
Just remember I love you.
When you're lonely and feel the pain in your chest
Just remember I love you.
No matter what state of mood you're in
Just remember I love you.
I hope this simple phrase gives you comfort within...
Just remember I will always love you.
Let Erin remember the days of old,
Ere her faithless sons betray'd her;
When Malachi wore the collar of gold,
Which he won from her proud invader,
When her kings, with standard of green unfurl'd,
Led the Red-Branch Knights to danger!
Ere the emerald gem of the western world
Was set in the crown of a stranger.
On Lough Neagh's bank as the fisherman strays,
When the clear cold eve's declining,
He sees the round towers of other days
In the wave beneath him shining:
Thus shall memory often, in dreams sublime,
Catch a glimpse of the days that are over;
Thus, sighing, look through the waves of time,
For the long-faded glories they cover.
(for sean)
Remember the flower, love
blooming night. The petals
lit on fire-
a million miles of moonlight
bending from the sky,
pin pointing the infinite places, and
the dark corners I kissed you
Remember the blossom, love
early spring- suckling,
reaching for something
unworldly
What the night remembers
it plants in memory, which spawn
wings that lead to dream
as we restless, rarely sleep.
Remember the flower, love-
what it leaves behind:
nostalgic flesh, that
navigates rain and remembrance
Remember me on a lonely day
When sadness takes you to a place
You do not want to go.
I’ll bring you roses to ease the pain
And provide you with a melody of hope;
We’ll walk to your favorite café,
Have a cappuccino, and talk about
Dreams we cannot let escape:
Children playing on Saturday,
Church bells chiming on Sunday,
An afternoon matinee,
Everything that makes
Life beautiful and true.
Dear Lady, if you’re ever too hurt
To make it through on your own,
Please remember me.
Remember midsummer: the fragrance of box, of white
roses
And of phlox. And upon a honeysuckle branch
Three snails hanging with infinite delicacy
-- Clinging like tendril, flake and thread, as self-tormented
And self-delighted as any ballerina,
just as in the orchard,
Near the apple trees, in the over-grown grasses
Drunken wasps clung to over-ripe pears
Which had fallen: swollen and disfigured.
For now it is wholly autumn: in the late
Afternoon as I walked toward the ridge where the hills
begin,
There is a whir, a thrashing in the bush, and a startled
pheasant, flying out and up,
Suddenly astonished me, breaking the waking dream.
Last night
Snatches of sleep, streaked by dreams and half dreams
- So that, aloft in the dim sky, for almost an hour,
A sausage balloon - chalk-white and lifeless looking--
floated motionless
Until, at midnight, I went to New Bedlam and saw what I
feared
the most - I heard nothing, but it
had all happened several times elsewhere.
Now, in the cold glittering morning, shining at the
window,
The pears hang, yellowed and over-ripe, sodden brown in
erratic places, all bunched and dangling,
Like a small choir of bagpipes, silent and waiting. And I
rise now,
Go to the window and gaze at the fallen or falling country
-- And see! -- the fields are pencilled light brown
or are the dark brownness of the last autumn
-- So much has shrunken to straight brown lines, thin as
the
bare thin trees,
Save where the cornstalks, white bones of the lost forever dead,
Shrivelled and fallen, but shrill-voiced when the wind
whistles,
Are scattered like the long abandoned hopes and ambitions
Of an adolescence which, for a very long time, has been
merely
A recurrent target and taunt of the inescapable mockery of
memory.
When love has left you
Feeling low and blue
Remember
Bad times will pass away
They may sometimes seem long
But are not bound to stay
When times are hard
And you are low on wad
Feeling lonely and sad
Right in your backyard
Remember
Bad times will pass away
They may sometimes seem long
Hang in there be strong
You have done no wrong
When you have nothing else to play
Except your last joker card
And people think you've gone completely mad
Please don't resort to being bad
Remember
Bad times will pass away
They may sometimes seem long
But are not bound to stay
Miracles do happen
Only if you and only you believe!
For those who love you safely from a distance
Remember it for the time
When they want your friendship enhanced
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Body, remember not only how much you were loved,
not only the beds on which you lay,
but also those desires which for you
plainly glowed in the eyes,
and trembled in the voice -- and some
chance obstacle made them futile.
Now that all belongs to the past,
it is almost as if you had yielded
to those desires too -- remember,
how they glowed, in the eyes looking at you;
how they trembled in the voice, for you, remember, body.
Ahhhhhhh, the sound of bliss and comfort
escapes my worn and pale-blanched lips,
first having passed those miracles of craft,
such handsome specimens, so lovingly created
by my young dentist, who -still laughing- clicked them in.
Arthritic wrists no longer need to worry,
their brushing days are over, now we have solutions.
My grandson runs back from the bar
and nearly spills that unnamed drink,
I think it might be called Jack Something, well,
one cannot be expected to be up on all the subjects.
Now, let me see, Lucille is gone,
she would be shopping, maybe dead?
These children look like our brave tribe,
I call them  'boy'  and 'girl', for sheer simplicity.
We had such fun this morning, though,
when I inserted downside up
these handy and precision chewers,
I plain forgot and then my mirror lied.
Oh, there he is, that nice young fellow
from 'meals-on-wheels', what's up today?
The soup is hot and one large straw for me,
will take  the place of shaky silver spoons.
So, leaning back, my chair is rocking,
those little angels like my slurping.
Man's got to eat and will be heard.
I see the print on my calendar,
a great big  X    marked for tomorrow,
'Oh Grandpa, we have a surprise',
it says the ninetyseventh there,
I wonder who would get THAT old.
'A party you will not forget,
some dignitaries will be present,
the mayor and Gravedigger Johann, '
it must have been my son, said that.
'So would you kids like milk and..... thingies
and practice the piano now,
it must be just around the corner,
inside that whatyacallit chambers,
and tell me, lad, well would you know,
is Grandma coming back from shopping?
Oh- you don't say - so sorry, dear
it must have been a tragic loss.'
'Ahhh, thank you for reminding me,
so, all you kids it's time for homework,
I do expect that no mistakes
of any kind will sneak their way
into your clever heads today.
I will not help you with your math.
But please be silent while you work,
I'll drink my whiskey, have a snooze.
Just wake me when Lucille comes back,
she does expect the house be tidy,
and tell me when you find my old piano.'
ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
slight snoreszzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
He settles back and eighteen pairs of twinkling eyes
look with a mix of love and wonder
at the old Geezer who has been
a friend for all those early years.
And two more sips of amber spirits,
lead, fading fast,  to early times,
he wonders briefly if one day
a cold air front would bring an end
to miracles of common childhood.
It did not matter to him now,
nor did he want to ask the young ones,
what years had passed in his long life.
By then, a silent frown had settled
upon his forehead and he mused
just how Lucille would view the future.
Remember him, whom Passion's power
Severely---deeply---vainly proved:
Remember thou that dangerous hour,
When neither fell, though both were loved.
That yielding breast, that melting eye,
Too much invited to be blessed:
That gentle prayer, that pleading sigh,
The wilder wish reproved, repressed.
Oh! let me feel that all I lost
But saved thee all that Conscience fears;
And blush for every pang it cost
To spare the vain remorse of years.
Yet think of this when many a tongue,
Whose busy accents whisper blame,
Would do the heart that loved thee wrong,
And brand a nearly blighted name.
Think that, whate'er to others, thou
Hast seen each selfish thought subdued:
I bless thy purer soul even now,
Even now, in midnight solitude.
Oh, God! that we had met in time,
Our hearts as fond, thy hand more free;
When thou hadst loved without a crime,
And I been less unworthy thee!
Far may thy days, as heretofore,
From this our gaudy world be past!
And that too bitter moment o'er,
Oh! may such trial be thy last.
This heart, alas! perverted long,
Itself destroyed might there destroy;
To meet thee in the glittering throng,
Would wake Presumption's hope of joy.
Then to the things whose bliss or woe,
Like mine, is wild and worthless all,
That world resign---such scenes forego,
Where those who feel must surely fall.
Thy youth, thy charms, thy tenderness---
Thy soul from long seclusion pure;
From what even here hath passed, may guess
What there thy bosom must endure.
Oh! pardon that imploring tear,
Since not by Virtue shed in vain,
My frenzy drew from eyes so dear;
For me they shall not weep again.
Though long and mournful must it be,
The thought that we no more may meet;
Yet I deserve the stern decree,
And almost deem the sentence sweet.
Still---had I loved thee less---my heart
Had then less sacrificed to thine;
It felt not half so much to part
As if its guilt had made thee mine.
When all their backs have been turned
When all your bridges have burned
When you forget to teach and learn
When all your tears fall down your face
When all your smiles go to waste
When your heart does no longer race
Remember, I AM
When you can't remember where you're from
When you've forgotten about true love
When you don't know which way is up
When you can't seem to understand
When you find you can't trust a man
When your foundation is made of sand
Remember, I AM
Remember I AM and I always will BE
Remember there is none like Me
Believe in what you cannot see?
Believe. Believe. Believe in Me.
Remember I AM when you don't know who you are
Remember I AM when someone breaks your heart
Remember I AM when you're torn all apart
Remember, I AM when you don't know where to start
When all your dreams turn to nothing
When your mouth forgets to sing
And when your phone no longer rings
When it seems no one does care
When you find no one is there
When you don't feel all that rare
Remember, I AM
So many memories we've made together.
As the years have slowly passed.
Tears may have been cried
but our laughter drownedthem all out.
Sharing my deepest most secrets
'Till one in the morning.
Talking forever about things
until our words just ran out.
But now you must leave,
and I stay behind
Who will I call
when I just need to talk.
Who will I lean on
when my problems weigh me down?
Who's jokes will i laugh at?
Who will make me smile? ?
I can't tell you the answers
to the questions I have.
But I want you to know
I will always love you as my best friend.
And when my heart is troubled
I will think of you.
Remember the times of joy we have shared,
and maybe it will make you smile.
And since you can't take me with you
take the memories we have made
and cherish them as I always will.
Dear moments, dearest, stay please don't go
Don't let long hours kill my heart
Poor heart you need me here I know
I wish to stay yet I must go
Then I'll die without you
Come come future dear moments wait for you
It's Fate who bids not you not me
It's once together once apart
Now drie your tears take what I say
When I've gone here you can still keep me
Within your heart I'll live a memory
Days come and go
Years pass quickly
Today's faithful friend
Might tomorrow betray
When years've passed
When faces changed
Might you dear friend
Remember me!
remeber me every day, when a sun rise..
when breeze up from our place to yours....
when you saw any one like me...
when every time you lights a cigarette...
i rememberd you in a night closed to be dawn..
and don`t forget me...
don`t forget me...
at when a breeze stoped...
and when you finished your cigarette...
i`m in loving with you, and you have to...
i`m in remembering you, so don`t forgot me....
iam loving you as became a mania...
so.. you have to love me, a love with out mania..
because i don`t like a craziness..
my love become more to you, when.....
when i light a cigarette from yours..
when i remeberd your friend, who let us knew each others..
and because of her i write, what i wrote...
and when i saw any girl like your prettiness...
so please..
i loved you so, and you have to...
and rememberd you, don`t forget....
Remember how I held your hand,
Remember how I kissed it,
Remember how you fell asleep,
Your head upon my shoulder?
I remember,
I remember the warmth of your body,
Pressed tightly against mine,
The press of your lips on my brow,
I remember desire,
In love was it wrapped,
I remember you.
Am i just a face amoung many?
A shadow of your past?
When your brushed by a warm nights breeze,
Remember my whispers to you?
Do you remember the moments of joy?
Do you remember our loss?
Do you remember all that I gave?
Do you even remember my name?
Rise ye up in the morning
And speak unto Me,
That I might guide thy step.
Throughout the day
In those quiet moments.
Remember Me that we be not far apart.
In the evening,
Lay thy head down unto Me,
For I shall speak of how I love thee.
In sleep, dream of Me,
For there, we are together again,
Walking side by side.
Commune with Me in these little ways
And, I will in no wise forget thee,
Or our time spent together,
For I will lift thee up
Out of the Fire and bring unto Me
A clean soul to embrace,
And forever we shall walk together
In the garden of My “Highest Kingdom”
You and I together,
Forever in Me,
Amen.
5-11-06
Remember my smile
Remember my eyes
Remember my laugh
Remember my voice
Remember my bad grammer
Remember my random thoughts
Remember my love of music
Remember my addiction to art
Remember my love for you
Forget whatever it was that made you leave
Please
Remember me
Remember me?
I’m the one you can’t see
I’m a shadow in the dark
You can’t ignore my shadow
I’m all around
You can hear me, though
I make a quiet sound
All you can do is hear me
My voice in the dark
Oh, it’s so stark
Do you still remember me?
Come to your senses
This isn’t rocket science
I’m your conscience
It’s so dark inside your head
I think I’m going to leave instead
Remember me?
Remember me is all I ask,
And yet
If the remembrance prove a task,
Forget.
I remember
hiding, crying,
cowering, screaming,
begging God to end my life
I remember
my disappointment
in waking each and every day
and how I cursed his name, in anger
I remember
so many years
wasted in despair
as I died a little each day
I remember
the day I was freed
badly frightened I was
that there was nothing left of me
I remember
falling in love
and finally feeling
that I truly am alive
I remember
what I was before
thankful for what I am
and for oh so much more
I will remember
the life I have been shown
that was given me by those I love
It is all of you I will forever remember
Remember me when I am gone away,
Gone far away into the silent land;
When you can no more hold me by the hand,
Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.
Remember me when no more day by day
You tell me of our future that you plann'd:
Only remember me; you understand
It will be late to counsel then or pray.
Yet if you should forget me for a while
And afterwards remember, do not grieve:
For if the darkness and corruption leave
A vestige of the thoughts that once I had,
Better by far you should forget and smile
Than that you should remember and be sad.
I hear the sound of distant guns,
as good lives march away,
to foreign lands to fight and die,
to preserve the rights of freedom,
for those in that distant land,
can have the right to live,
and not under a tyrant’s hand.
They go not as heroes for glory,
but to help innocent souls,
so they can sleep securely at night.
However, the battlefield where they are,
hold allsorts of dangers there,
some will never return safely home.
Their souls will look over
the battlefield where they fell,
possibly wondering at
the folly of it all.
Therefore, the next time you look at,
a monument with columns of names,
remember that their sacrifice
was made not for one, but for all.
remember
the curiosity
as a child
the stirring
in the heart
the first time
you saw
a hornbill,
a crane
that had
set wings
to your imagination
of colours,
feathers, and flight
an elephant
such giant honest creature
you could get them
walk in a line
down the circus
their trunks
trumpeting  a song
livening up childhood years
the strong stench
of ammonia
from their  hair,
never a repellent
to shun them
walk, walk, walk,
they saunter
down your dream
and childhood lane
after so many years
the giant  elephants
that remain
the fondest of  pets
illusive pets
that grace
a dozen stories written,
painted with them
remember
the million trees
in the forests
are to fire
the imagination
of  the world
of the cuddly,
strange creatures in them
to light up
that  inquisitive spirit
in all of us
to learn and
explore
every living creature
from the mouth of moms,
books, and neighbours
remember
the trees
stand in a straight line
as guards of honour
to salute that child
in your heart
that runs
the length and breath
of  your mind,  soul
the essence of your personality
the elephants trumpeting a song
inspired by
Remember
Remember me when I am gone away,
Gone far away into the silent land;
When you can no more hold me by the hand,
Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.
Remember me when no more day by day
You tell me of our future that you plann'd:
Only remember me; you understand
It will be late to counsel then or pray.
Yet if you should forget me for a while
And afterwards remember, do not grieve:
For if the darkness and corruption leave
A vestige of the thoughts that once I had,
Better by far you should forget and smile
Than that you should remember and be sad.
Christina Georgina Rossetti
Do you not remember me
The one who set your feelings free
And brought you to your knees...............
Do you not recall the days
You threw away your careless ways
And lost your heart to me....................
Do you not relive those nights
Of wild abandon - timeless flights
Into a magic place...............................
Where I was all you needed then
Oh, surely you remember when
The world was ours alone....................
The magic still remains  with me
It hurts to know that you don't see
How much those moments meant............
In quiet times I hope you know
Deep in your heart I loved you so..............
And maybe shead a tear.
Remember where you came from.
Remember where you have been.
Remember whom you have encountered.
Remember whom you have known,
Remember joyous moments.
Remember sorrow too.
Remember all the lessons.
Remember the lessons you forgot.
Remember your Father.
Remember your Mentor.
Remember Mother Earth.
Remember the universe.
Remember to remember.
Remember gratitude.
Remember to be humble.
Remember your heart.
Remember always to love.
(Created 09-23-05@4: 53PM, Completed 11-27-06@6: 41PM)
The love of my life you come at last.
Only to notice that you where in my past.
Why don’t I remember?
Why didn’t it last?
I can’t remember,
Did I make you mad?
In my life time I meet you once,
Only to remember the other bunch.
You see my love you’re not the one.
So go home and be alone.
rewind life and remember
your last bad words, your last good ones,
to him. long before the cut.
if you're not too relaxed,
picture the last conversation
and how it went. what he told you.
why you didn't listen completely.
try to push past all this recent history
to the old school grounds.
remember
tripping on a shoelace.
he helped you up, didn't he?
remember
falling off the swing.
wasn't he there to show you
how to hit the ground running?
remember how you forgot all that.
try to understand everyone's own impact.
his impact. his footprint.
if you're not too busy to mourn an early end,
stop. remember how he touched.
no matter how or when or why.
just for the record,
you're never going to see him again.
Old fashioned movies
With true love to gain
Always remember romance
And kiss in the rain.
The only thing you have
Is the hope of his kiss
And waiting for the day
Is all that you miss
In love, in romance
Looking into his eyes
Is all you want to do
No time for any lies
So send him a text
Drop him a line
And maybe one day
He’ll take the time
He’ll fall for you
And never look back
Your life will be bright
No time for dark, no black
I hope he’s always there
To take away my pain
And to remember romance
And to kiss in the rain
There is nothing but mystery
Around every fleeting kiss
As we crawl on the beach
After prowling all night like cats,
I wish we were entwined on a city roof
Completely naked in the moonlight,
I’m not satisfied with anemic dreams
Or love making that utters quiet squeaks,
I’ve made offerings to Aphrodite,
Remember that when I fondle your breasts,
Our hearts are tangled in a sensual web,
There is water from soft lakes on your skin,
I’m going to dive into your soul and swim,
Let this relationship blossom into poetic myth,
Let future scholars interpret it,
Every lesson of illicit love will spring from our book.
Remember thee! yes, while there's life in this heart,
It shall never forget thee, all lorn as thou art;
More dear in thy sorrow, thy gloom, and thy showers,
Than the rest of the world in their sunniest hours.
Wert thou all that I wish thee, great, glorious, and free,
First flower of the earth, and first gem of the sea,
I might hail thee with prouder, with happier brow,
But oh! could I love thee more deeply tha now?
No, thy chains as they rankle, thy blood as it runs,
But make thee more painfully dear to thy sons --
Whose hearts, like the young of the desert-bird's nest,
Drink love in each life-drop that flows from thy breast.
Remember thee! remember thee!
Till Lethe quench life's burning stream
Remorse and shame shall cling to thee,
And haunt thee like a feverish dream!
Remember thee! Aye, doubt it not.
Thy husband too shall think of thee:
By neither shalt thou be forgot,
Thou false to him, thou fiend to me!
Mr. Johnson you silly little boy
Disregard those outrageous assumptions
The hands of time will continue to progress
So only you are to blame for your failures my son
That was hundreds of years ago
Circumstances are different now
Legislation has been passed
Racism is now a serious crime
Success awaits you my boy
New opportunities are breathing life
Each and every day
So forget all that non-sense about slavery
But for Gods sake, Remember the holocaust
I realize your ancestors where kidnapped,
Raped beaten and tortured
“Red drops trickling from the wounds of Ancient crimes”
What on imagination you have
The hands of time will continue to progress
Racism is now a serious crime
Disregard those outrageous assumptions
You were brainwashed with
Only you are to blame for your failures my boy
So forget all that non-sense about
Bondage and Slavery
But for God’s sake Mr. Johnson
Remember the Holocaust
Remember little jack sprat
Remember three little pigs
Remember all those fairy tales
That seemed so real to us a kids
Remember mother goose
Remember Cinderella going to the ball
Remember the old lady in the shoe
Remember sleeping beauty eyes closed and all
Remember growing up and out
Remember getting rid of baby things
Remember watching Disney
And not singing barney songs we used to sing
Remember getting grow up
Remember sleeping in big kid beds
Remember ditching Barbie dolls
And tiring to flush their heads
Remember going to jr. high
Remember how scary it seemed
Remember getting used it
But not to getting picked last on teams
Remember when people had cliques
Remember when you were not part one
Remember when people started acting weird
But with your friends you still had fun
Remember eight-gread graduation
Remember high school seeming tough
Remember the day you got there
And it really wasn’t that rough
Someday you’ll look back
And remember doing this too
It seems weird now but
But it depends on your attitude
Remember where you came from.
Remember you name.
Remember where you have been.
Remember whom you have encountered.
Remember whom you have known,
Remember joyous moments.
Remember sorrows too.
Remember the choices you've chose,
Remember the mistakes you've made.
Remember all the lessons.
Remember the lessons you forgot.
Remember your Father.
Remember Mother.
Remember your Mentor.
Remember to remember.
Remember gratitude.
Remember to be humble.
Remember your heart.
Remember always to love.
Remember This
Oh yeah!
I know I’d find you!
Oh, oh, oh.
I got you like I said!
I told you I never lie.
You were built for shame.
So get up because you’re not dead.
There’s and old saying that goes like this:
“I clean up after myself when I’m tied up”
I can’t find out, No you can’t find it!
You make me sick!
You will regret this.
You owe me this.
Remember when
the days seemed so long
Not a care in the world
and all was a song
Sit on the front porch
and smell the fresh air
Summertime pleasures
without not a care
I long for those days
to came back again
Sharing our dreams
with one special friend
Remember when we would give our hearts to everyone and everything
When life was change and we accepted what life would bring
When the seasons would represent their purpose
When it was okay to be so child-like in the spring!
Remember when life stood still in moments of making memories
When families would gather together and share stories
When time would stand still, so it seemed just to recognize LOVE
When people weren’t ashamed of having values
When the children were allowed and encouraged to speak to the Man Above!
Life has changed and the purpose deliberately been rearranged
Presidents of this country acting like a pig that’s been deranged
People don’t even live by the same standards anymore
Strutting their attitudes and making waves with their community
Pushing and shoving and telling the children to keep score!
Remember when people would help others
When daughters looked up to their mothers
When people would lend out a helping hand
When people knew there were hard times, but didn’t complain
When things were tough people came together
When we would give our hearts another chance to start
There was hope in the eyes of the people because we never gave up
The value of the dollar was better than now
Even though very few made much
There wasn’t all this fuss over war and such
Our lives as people connected and we weren’t scared to touch lives
Nowadays, the definition in the word “surprise”
Has also changed, for nowadays, it doesn’t necessarily mean good
My eyes hurt from all these tears,
I wonder are we ever going to make things right, am I understood?
Remember when there was joy in the homes of families
When we seen someone out of change at the counter we would help out
When families were in dire need of food and shelter
When we would encourage our children to not judge when things weren’t kelter
When we stuck together even back in times of the depression
When people’s word counted for something special
I can’t help but wonder if our children will Remember When?
Due to the way things are compared to back then
Makes me quite scared
Are our lives going to be spared?
Will our hearts voice be shared?
When it’s all said and done
I am as proud as anyone
I pray with all my heart’s intent
That you fully understand the power and meaning
And seek one another’s contentment!
She was an evil stepmother.
In her old age she is slowly dying
in an empty hovel.
She shudders
like a clutch of burnt paper.
She does not remember that she was evil.
But she knows
that she feels cold.
Translated from the Polish by Czeslaw Milosz and Leonard Nathan
Anonymous Submission
She was an evil stepmother.
In her old age she is slowly dying
in an empty hovel.
She shudders
like a clutch of burnt paper.
She does not remember that she was evil.
But she knows
that she feels cold.
Translated from the Polish by Czeslaw Milosz and Leonard Nathan
Anonymous Submission
It was August I remember
I remember when I met her
She was perfect I remember
in her body, mind and soul
In September I remember
I remember her all over
She was perfect I remember
in her body, mind and soul
In October I remember
I remember her all over
We were lovers I remember
in body, mind and soul
In November I remember
I remember lies she told me
She was wilful I remember
Wilful to the n'th degree
In December I remember
I remember it was over
Still, she is all that I remember
Love forever sweet Nicole
Still I remember
The way we
touched
embraced
became one
in ecstasy
sublime
pure
intense
gratifyi ng
Still I remember
three things to remember
black and white are equal
in the eyes of god
created for his penchance
for diversity
though many would beg to differ
the healthy child who  fails to laugh
or smile for two days
shows something  has gone wrong
with us, not them
that we are the ones to seek
psychiatric care, not them
the air has turned hotter
from our own negligence
not the vengeance of god
the world would end
on the hands of men, not god
he only acts according to necessity
inspired by
Three Things to Remember
A Robin Redbreast in a cage,
Puts all Heaven in a rage.
A skylark wounded on the wing
Doth make a cherub cease to sing.
He who shall hurt the little wren
Shall never be beloved by men.
William Blake
A Robin Redbreast in a cage,
Puts all Heaven in a rage.
A skylark wounded on the wing
Doth make a cherub cease to sing.
He who shall hurt the little wren
Shall never be beloved by men.
When you are feeling down,
try to remember all the good things you have had,
and I will bet you,
they are many more than the bad.
We tend to remember only
all the bad things in our lives,
and the good things get stored away
for a rainy day we say.
Now if we remember,
all the good things in our life,
we would not be so unhappy
when the bad things come along.
4 August 2007
Try to remember some details. Remember the clothing
of the one you love
so that on the day of loss you'll be able to say: last seen
wearing such-and-such, brown jacket, white hat.
Try to remember some details. For they have no face
and their soul is hidden and their crying
is the same as their laughter,
and their silence and their shouting rise to one height
and their body temperature is between 98 and 104 degrees
and they have no life outside this narrow space
and they have no graven image, no likeness, no memory
and they have paper cups on the day of their rejoicing
and paper cups that are used once only.
Try to remember some details. For the world
is filled with people who were torn from their sleep
with no one to mend the tear,
and unlike wild beasts they live
each in his lonely hiding place and they die
together on battlefields
and in hospitals.
And the earth will swallow all of them,
good and evil together, like the followers of Korah,
all of them in thir rebellion against death,
their mouths open till the last moment,
praising and cursing in a single
howl. Try, try
to remember some details.
Well I remember how you smiled
To see me write your name upon
The soft sea-sand . . . "O! what a child!
You think you're writing upon stone!"
I have since written what no tide
Shall ever wash away, what men
Unborn shall read o'er ocean wide
And find Ianthe's name again.
Lieutenant De Long, commanding the Jeannette Artic
Expedition, having seen his vessel crushed by the ice,
undertook a perilous journey through the ice and snow
toward the coast of Siberia. With a part of his command
he finally reached the wilderness near the mouth of the
River Lena. Disabled by sickness, hunger and cold, the
little band was compelled to halt, while two of their
number went forward. When the pathetic parting was over,
and after the two seaman had begun their battle with the
snowdrifts, they heard a call, and on turning, recognized
the voice of one of their officers feebly shouting: "When
you get to New York, remember me!" From that group of
brave men, these were the last words that ever reached
human ears.
Starving beside the frozen Lena!
Perishing in a snow blockade!
From a lone group of shipwrecked seamen
Two are sent forth to seek for aid.
'Tis a sad, a solemn parting;
Life or death! who can foresee?
Hark! on the wind floats this last message:
"When you get home, remember me!"
Gallant and brave! together clinging,
True to the last! with but this plea;
Still in our ears its words are ringing,
"When you get home, remember me!"
Ready to sink, yet persevering,
Southward and helpward toil the twain;
Close in the rear an Artic winter
Binding the land with icy chain.
Weary wait the suff'ring comrades;
Help they ask on bended knee;
But to their friends come these words only:
"When you get home, remember me!"
Succor at last! the twain find helpers;
Shrieks the fierce gale, "Too late! too late!"
Valiant De Long and brave companions,
Manfully, calmly meet their fate.
One by one, they lie down dying;
All obey that stern decree---
Last on their lips this plaintive whisper:
"When you get home, remember me!"
Starving beside the frozen Lena!
Perishing in a snow blockade!
Had we but known their need, what thousands
Would have rejoiced to render aid!
There was want, while here abundance;
Naught had they, while plenty we.
Shall we not heed their last entreaty:
"When you get home, remember me!"
will you remember me
when im gone
will you ever think of me
when you are alone
will you remember me
on a dark rainy night
will you remember our laughs
and our silly fights
will you remember me
in the early morn
will you ever think of me
and our time forlorn
will you remember me
as me
not as someone
i couldnt be
will you remember me
when im not there
will you ever miss me
or do you really care
You smiled yesterday
When all we were to each other
Was new...
Now I reach for you and you
Only stare back at me with eyes
Cold as winter winds...
Love!
What happened to your laughter?
Where did you hide my lovers arms?
Conceal his kiss?
You smiled yesterday
When all we were to each other
Was new...
Now all has changed and
I am constant through revolving doors
Of memories.
Oh! Jealous heart!
We promised never!
But you forgot to remember.
You remember Ellen, our hamlet's pride,
How meekly she bless'd her humble lot,
When the stranger, William, had made her his bride,
And love was the light of their lowly cot.
Together they toil'd through winds and rains,
Till William, at length, in sadness said,
"We must seek our fortune on other plains;" --
Then, sighing, she left her lowly shed.
They roam'd a long and a weary way,
Nor much was the maiden's heart at ease,
When now, at close of one stormy day,
They see a proud castle among the trees.
"To-night," said the youth, "we'll shelter there;
The wind blows cold, the hour is late;"
So he blew the horn with a chieftain's air,
And the porter bow'd, as they passd the gate.
"Now, welcome, Lady," exclaim'd the youth, --
"This castle is thine, and these dark woods all!"
She believed him crazed, but his words were truth,
For Ellen is Lady of Rosna Hall!
And dearly the Lord of Rosna loves
What William the stranger woo'd and wed;
And the light of bliss, in these lordly groves,
Shines pure as it did in the lowly shed.
Here today and gone tomorrow
I pass through life
Touched by souls both good and bad
I pass through life
And here I sit thinking back in reflection
As I pass through life
All the souls that came and went
As I past through life
In the moon tree of reflection I whisper
Please remember me
For the polarity of my moods
Please remember me
Fragile is the heart that hurt you
Strong is the heart that healed you
Peace is the heart that remembers you
Like Dantes Prayer
Please remember me!
Nicolas Shrady; sceptic on a pilgrimage,
following holy trails to religious shrines,
seeking the spiritual within the physical –
realising he was ‘an outsider, a passive
observer, and always would be’
Saw artificial attempts to impress, had to
be content with only meditation, could not
simulate false piety, couldn’t find what he
doesn’t already believe
Observation proved fickle – symbolical
content depends on already present belief,
tried ceremonies, followed customs, found
faith had no roots in anything substantial
Supernatural events happen to believers
only, which the five senses abjure, faithless
see nothing; he enjoyed a fabulous spiritual
journey, made  friends,
Learned to appreciate wonder and beauty of
innocence, trust in the human heart, but  the
ability of the believer to make things true
which a sceptic can never see taught him
honour and respect…
“Sacred Roads” by Nicholas Shrady Penguin Books 2000
p75  ‘…an outsider, a passive observer and always would be’
Why do you think I am not like you?
I know I can drink and do what you can do.
I need to be a human for once in my life
I'm not the kind of person who always holds a knife.
I want to be naive like much people
I don't want to be a thief and disagreeable.
I want to be a star that twinkles in the sky
I want to be the truth that people always deny.
I want to be a good evidence in this deceitful world
And make the insensible people know that there's a lord.
A lord of fairness, kindness and safety
So people go out from from your cavity.
I need an answer for my serious call
To feel at least I am human who have a soul.
Nobody gives a damn about you
Until you pick up a gun or strap on a bomb
And kill someone with your version of kindness
Nobody gives a damn about you
Until you have a couple too many drinks
Get behind the wheel of your SUV
And kill someone with your version of having fun
Nobody gives a damn about you
Until you call someone a Honky or a Nigger
And kill someone with your version of the truth
Nobody gives a damn about you
Until you learn to give a damn about yourself
You don't have to love me
You don't have to like me
You don't even have to shine a smile at me,
everytime that you see me.
You don't have to give a hug.
You don't have to 'show some love'
You don't have to smack my back,
like a flyswatter to a bug.
You don't have to pass me by.
You don't have to greet me w/ a cheery lie.
You just need to know one thing.
Remember it like nothing else:
THAT IM NOT LOOKING FOR YOUR BEST,
I JUST NEED YOU TO GIVE ME RESPECT!
Oh, all dear men;
Young, adult and old.
You have given us the freedom
To study whatever we want;
But are we contended? No,
Our tender heart craves for your love and respect.
You have given us the freedom
To work where ever we want;
But are we happy? No,
Our tender heart craves for your love and respect.
You have given us the liberty
To talk whatever - equality….;
But do we feel good? No,
Our thoughtful mind longs your love and respect.
You have given us the liberty
To wear whatever we like;
But are we relieved? No,
Our thoughtful mind longs your love and respect.
You have given us the autonomy
To go anywhere;
But do we feel safe alone? No,
Our lonely body needs your love and respect.
You have given us the sovereignty
To say, do whatever we want;
But do any of those things make us
Really happy and peaceful? Never,
Our eternal soul yearn for your love and respect
More than anything else!
A man should have respect
His case may not accord him that,
Nor his situation
Yet he must feel self worth.
A man must have respect
He may be poor
And destitute
But he is a child of God.
He is a spark of the Spirit
He is a wonder in himself
He is unique
The greatest of animals.
A man will have respect
Primordiality may refuse him it
But he will strive all he may
To clinch it still.
Be cautious when treating people with respect,
Especially those that are not accustomed to it.
They begin to expect,
Anything they do to be acceptable.
Being direct and factual...
When and if pointing out a shown irresponsibility,
Upsets their track record of being negligent.
And your outspoken candor,
Can and will offend them to no end.
You will be the first one they accuse,
Of abusing their insecurities...
Others ignore,
But choose to talk about this and them...
Behind their backs.
And whether this is known or not...
Those actions of others are preferred,
To keep their egos intact!
And you may be the first to express...
You will have none of that!
Never stop respecting,
But choose not to be a welcome mat!
And everyone knows what they are used for!
I respect, another mans religion, or color or creed.
I respect, and follow, the will of my maker.
I respect, the truth, no matter how unpopular.
I respect, a good work ethic.
I respect, the values on which this country was founded.
I respect, those who would champion the under privileged.
I respect, those of differences, who seek common ground.
I respect, the concept of monogamy.
I respect, those faithful to principal.
I respect, change, that is for the better.
I respect, an honest days work.
I respect, the great talents of the entertainment world.
I respect, thought provoking works, of the written word.
I respect, the unquenchable thirst of creativity.
I respect, the farmers and workers that toil in the field.
I respect, the good in man.
I respect, the virtue in woman.
I respect, the innocence of children.
I respect, the generosity of mankind.
Most of all...I respect the maker of
life and the love, that each of us
have within us.
© Joe Fazio
Fear breaks; Respect mends.
Fear hurts; Respect heals.
Fear suffocates; Respect motivates.
Fear arrests; Respect enables.
Give respect to a woman
Your mother your sister
Your daughter are there
In a woman.
Give respect to a woman
A woman is your wife
And producing your children
With much difficulties
And rearing them
Sacrificing everything
Giving you pleasure
At life's risk.
Give respect to a woman
A woman is a woman
You men can not describe
A woman being the product
Of a woman
You just give respect
And beg excuse
I know wrong is with you.
I would love to be hated
For ever reason and stand related
Each action being criticized
And cut to size
That shall give me enormous joy
Nice reason  to feel elated and enjoy
At least you near to the people
For what ever cause and trouble
They will call you man of vested interest
Try to malign motive behind and test
They want simple excuse to air dissent
They have actually lost civility and curtsey is absent
I am sure of great respect
When they will know about my act
The work put behind success
And providing them best window with access
With such intention, any man can work freely
He has the platform and vast horizon readily
He can go for in and utilize the space
As has good intention show class in chase
Hold in high respect… with ardor
The inward customs and order,
The virtue bestowed on you –
The dear and sacred gift…
And let no one, even your son
To neglect your main foothold,
To ignore it!
Some have snatched away the emotions,
They’ve spent their life licking others boots…
The utter fool is proud of his folly,
And the mischievous sneak hangs about…
You are able to repulse
That assault of flattery
With well-known and noble means…
You just don’t forget, and believe
Such order takes roots in the heavens…
18.09.2001
Translated from Georgian
How can I respect a woman?
If a woman does not respect herself.
Burning temptation.
Attention by all means.
Acting elegant,
But obviously obscene.
She is the queen bee,
But respect of a man.
Nah, she will never see.
Copyright© Nadim Lost Soul
How can I respect people who do not respect me
Who to others do not grant me my due equality
Since equality to others is everybody's due
That is if to one's higher self one wish to remain true
Too many far too many support the inequality of rank
Our sadly flawed socities for such people we must thank
I cannot respect people who see fit to put me down
Far too many of their sort inhabit every town
These people not good people strange mind games they do play
They uphold rank and class distinction and create us against they
How can I respect people who like to pigeon hole
Those they look on as inferior in life this their chosen role
On who should be seen as important they like to have their say
They are small minded people small in their own small way.
Being doing the misery
i was born
yes, it was I
nobody else,
why?
cuz,
life means a lot
for being a plot
and, then leaving
why,
naah, never
plz, dnt do that
atleast,
not with me
I
rise above
hate
to teach the lesson
my passion,
my ideal
idol,
the one
the only
my life champ,
John Cena
May live forever,
I love his every
atom, character.
If you don’t respect your mother,
Your whole knowledge
Will turn into soil,
And you only become a man
Of bones not soul
Where will you go in the long run?
When your mother does not
Remain with you any longer,
And the whole world burns
You with its fire,
Then who will save you,
From the fire of the world?
Your destruction waits for you,
And your progress ceases
In the mid way,
And you are struggling with yourself,
Oh, you remain alone,
Not even the soul is left,
And the shoulder you don’t have to cry on,
But the frustration hugs you
Wherever you go in life
How poor you have become,
In blessings,
And a bad lot hovering
Around you all the times,
Then how will you escape?
If nothing is left with you,
Don’t forget the last option
Remains with you,
You better go to your mother
And ask her for sorry
Then the heaven is with you
To protect from devil’s shadow
If you pay respect to where respect is due
And to your own higher self try to remain true
And treat everyone as an equal and all as the same
Your's ought to live on as a remembered name.
If for everyone you believe on a 'fair go'
And despite their Race or Creed due respect to them show
And never ruin anyone's character with malicious lies
Above the ordinary you are one who does seem to rise.
If you unlike many not addicted to greed
And try to help those of help who are in need
And of your own Human flaws you do feel aware
To say the least people like you are quite rare.
If you do believe in the live and let live
And you are not too proud to receive and generous enough for to give
And respect to the rights of all others you pay
Then as a person you are doing quite okay.
If You respect yourself respect to others you'll show
Never judge a person that you do not know
But your political leaders feel free to praise or to criticize
Since their decisions impact on you that you must realize
If you so wish you can heed or ignore my advice
Those with only personal power leave to their own device
Since any personal decisions they make do not impact on you
As you'd like them to treat you likewise to them do
Anyone if they so choose with their words can be unkind
And if you look for flaws in others then flaws you will find
Those kind with their words to their higher selves true
We receive from life what is only our due
Those into trash talking I for one don't condone
Let the one without sin come and cast the first stone.
In every respect
You are all in all
You are my dearest dear.
In every respect
You are wonderful
Your activities are wonderful.
In every respect
You exist
You are full of bliss.
I respect, another mans religion, or color or creed.
I respect, and follow, the will of my maker.
I respect, the truth, no matter how unpopular.
I respect, a good work ethic.
I respect, the values on which this country was founded.
I respect, those who would champion the under privileged.
I respect, those of differences, who seek common ground.
I respect, the concept of monogamy.
I respect, those faithful to principal.
I respect, change, that is for the better.
I respect, an honest days work.
I respect, the great talents of the entertainment world.
I respect, thought provoking works, of the written word.
I respect, the unquenchable thirst of creativity.
I respect, the farmers and workers that toil in the field.
I respect, the good in man.
I respect, the virtue in woman.
I respect, the innocence of children.
I respect, the generosity of mankind.
Most of all...I respect the maker of
life and the love, that each of us
have within us.
© Joe Fazio
I respect your mother
I respect but not at the cost of my mother.
My mother is my mother
My mother is more than this earth remember.
I respect
The act
Of each Individual
When he tries to be noble
What is his secret strength?
The belief
That provides relief
With not buts and ifs
I bow down
To such known
And unknown
Persons
They may be visiting
And reciting
Enchanting with prayers
To wish as peace seekers
When you knell down
Your ills become known
They are washed away
The moment you pray
My heart beats for those
Who repose
Trust and confidence
With almighty for peace essence
I am simple and ordinary
But poet and good at oratory
I write in simple way
No show off or employ any other way
I find light all around
As you were found
From the crowd
To claim loud
It was rare occasion
When I proposed for relation
You were straight forward
Took me near with true words
You are exceptional
Approach too very rationale
No show off or over imposition
You are Pak* friend suited for union
I am not in this world
When chatting with cold
Soul who is whispering slowly
Leaving in between abruptly
Yes I too respect
And act
With honor
That shall be due to lover
What shall ask her?
To shed fear
And come near
I think simple address of "dear"
Entering into somebody's house,
Scare while one goes into,
Scare while one returns from,
Scare while one is enjoying the desire,
Scare while one is trying to hide his activities from others;
While there is fear and scare forever,
why one does not consider the  risk
of  entering into somebody's house,
of desirous to have contact with somebody's wife
and lose the respect and reputation?
There is always fear of
Sexually Transmitted Disease,
Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) ,
Beware of your activity!
Love and respect
Each face with fact
That it has been blessed
By almighty and shaped
Let the white color be liked
Let the black color be disliked
God has made no difference
It has shown equal presence
If day is bright with sun
It has challenges to run
White means sacrifice and peace
Life is full of danger and not at all at ease
If nights are totally dark
They have so much to spark
Offer peace and calm
To offer you rest with no harm
See the purpose and motives
He has always remained selective
Provided us with two options
Either go for it or disown
If you love both with same eyes
You need not think more and try
The heavenly bodies are there to look after
You finish the mission and depart thereafter
love honour respect
other cultures
other religions
open hearted embrace
humanity compassion innate
in other individuals met
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Many of this world face heartbreak and failure
Broken homes, joblessness, loneliness, loss and war.
Even God’s disciples had to battle doubt and depression
As Jesus and Satan shadowed every window and door.
Throughout life we experience regret, fear and longings
While seeking love, fame, sex, revenue, and romance.
Most learn the hard way how to behave and relate
To become all that we are by servitude and chance.
God blesses those who triumph through faithfulness and love
By the way they provide, treasure and protect.
All of us suffer issues, weaknesses and shortcomings
As we celebrate life, love, Jesus, faith and respect.
Tom's 601 Poems Are Free To Share!
By God's Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
We must bravely reject the deeds of the wicked
Which offer nothing but false pleasures and tears.
The Devil serves up his lies of mistrust
Plotting we'll remain prisoners of our fears.
When we fail to submit to the will of God
We pay attention to all the wrong voices.
We fall prey to deception and refuse to obey
The Lord's love to improve our choices
God's wisdom is measured by the outcomes of life
And how we keep our desires and untruths in check.
If we excuse our wrongs and always blame others
We suffer the loss of love, joy, trust and respect
By God's Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web!
Tom's 750 Poems Are Free To Share!
Love gives comfort; respect gives courage.
Love sedates one and respect inspires.
Love lulls you and respect awakes you.
You can’t demand love but command respect.
Love with respect or respect with love
Is what people, be high or low, expect
From those outside their family circle.
There only exist human relations.
Women need it as mark of respect
We all have to think seriously and introspect
When God has made it then why do we stand as suspect?
Has everything got relevance with cast, creed, color or sect?
Yes, color do attract us for certain reasons
It is natural and varies from person to person
But is it the only criteria to hate an individual?
Still we have we to fight against role called dubious or dual?
I salute to those who stand against such move?
They may be threatened with their live or removed
Yet the fight may not be over till it ends
We as an human beings must change our trend
We are in land of peace and liberty
We are equally blessed with freedom from almighty
Why do we create hatred only on the basis of color?
This is not simple matter but serious and major
Some of the people may not speak openly against
But secretly they will bless and insist
That struggle rages on indefinitely
The people are brandished and disappear quietly
It is suppression and blot on humanity
It is not even today discouraged for continuity
Enough blood has been shed and still it remains
Let us do everything which is possible in our domain
Men must respect other men
Women must respect other women
Men and women must respect our children
And protect them so all can go to heaven.
I cannot fully fathom the unusualness of men
Mother Nature will remain eternally natural
Mothers will give birth to men and women
And the sky will forever be conventional.
Men must respect girls and boys
They are human too, not little toys
Women must respect boys and girls
Our tootses don’t belong to a world of swirls and twirls.
If we respect each other, our world will be natural
Loving, wonderful and exceptional
Love and respect are like fraternal twins
In such godly oasis, everyone wins.
Men must respect and care for each other
Women must follow a similar procedure
Life is beautiful, thanks to Mother Nature
Who always follows the Scriptures.
Our children need our help and divine lectures
Let’s love them and protect their future
Let’s chase the devils out of the manger
Let’s be brothers and sisters and love each other.
Men must respect other men
Men and women must respect our children.
My grandma knew a thing or two
about the herbs that freely grew
From which she brewed her remedies
that served to cure a cough or wheeze.
She always said for each disease.
There was herb which would bring ease.
The local village doctor knew
that she knew more than he claimed to
. Before the N.H.S. became
the major player in the game.
They cured the ills of every man,
the wise old doctor and My Gran
Each held the other in respect
a partnership both could accept.
26-Nov-07
No respect dude the teenager said
Unhappy with me for not honouring the war dead
But his idea of what is respect is quite different to mine
He has his opinions and that suits me fine.
The making of a young soldier in some future day
To fight in a war from his homeland far away
For by his own admission that is all he aspires for to be
The heroes to him are not heroes to me.
Perhaps of emulating his ancestor the teenager does dream
But those he sees as heroes are not mine it does seem
My heroes believe in live and let live
And any perceived wrongs of the past are happy to forgive.
No respect dude words from one quite young
Perhaps one day too his praises will be sung
And though he may not survive to march in the war parade
At his grave site the last post for him will be played.
My advice to no respect dude is live long as you can
And forget about war live to be an old man
And watch your great grandchildren in the children's playground play
For life is for living as some are known to say.
People stay
Away
And pay
Scant respect
To beggars
Who stay not near?
But far from civilized world
To have their own fold
They know
And blow
With wind
And not mind
Someday some change
May come in with time edge
Who knows what may be swept away?
The fortune, wealth or greedy way
No world for beggars
No words for poor
But look backward
And then think forward
Patience they have
And silently behave too
With insult
And deep restraint
i will not allow a woman or a child
to be abused or disrespected in my presence...
i do not think racial slurs are humorous.
i'm not interested in being converted
to your religion.
i am not interested in your sexual preference,
not interested in playing games.
i dont care what you own.
i will do anything i can to help you,
but i wont be owned by you.
i will respect your right to opinions,
you will respect mine.
i'm not always a good man,
but i'm a hard enough man to stand my ground.
Pay respect to
Your Father
Your Mother
To your guide
And philosopher
Remember all
Is one and one
And He is all pervading
Omniscient and within all
Pay respect pay respect
If you fail
No one is there as
Your well-wisher
Remember, the Truth, my dear .
Please respect the elderly!
Learn patience day-by-day...
A little love from you and me
Can go a long, long way!
God's love towards Mankind goes on
For all eternity
And when His children must pass on,
He treats them tenderly...
Please respect the elderly!
No matter, fit or frail...
A soothing word or pleasantry,
Is hardly known to fail.
Lord Jesus died for one and all...
He died for young and old...
While young at heart we may walk tall,
In time, we're not so bold...
Please respect the elderly!
Is that too much to ask?
Our actions prove our courtesy,
Regardless of the task...
God hears the prayers of everyone,
No matter, rich or poor.
If we do things that must be done,
God couldn't ask for more...
Denis Martindale, copyright, June 2011
Demanded by Some
Cherished as a treasured gift
Intangible need
JPM 9/5/2007
respect!
for all that lives,
for all that breathes...
for life itself in all
its constantly evolving forms....
for every moment,
for every casual brush
of a caring hand...
for the individuality and
the differences...
for in the differences
we find sameness!
not to change
a rainbow to
a mountain...
a hawk into
a turtle....
but to take each
as it is... realizing
its beauty and its worth....
respect!
knowing that what you feel,
i feel... what you need,
i need...
one breath of life,
many forms,
molded by the spirit
of compassionate energy!
respect!
We have forgotten traditional values
That was owed and very much due
He teachers were considered as founding stone
For the future of students alone
Even though the basic knowledge was from home
The teachers were always welcome
And adored their position
It was respectable transition
It may be with lack of facility
That student might have faced in its utility
The teachers have gone all out
To help in every aspect and talked about
The teachers were always held
In high esteem but were less paid
Still they have performed their duties
To the help and welfare of societies
We naturally held high regard
And look forward
For heir guidance and advice
It is always full of promises
Obama...has his critics
..God knows I'm one
I've also reaped benefits
God knows there's some
But to claim..I've not
Is hypocritically wrong
Still that bigoted mentality
...Steadfast...clings on
In the minds of the many
….Twisted and such
Tormented….demented
Souls out of touch
Though facts of the moment
Stare dead in the face
…Yet reality's delusion
Remains commonplace
..Indeed rising as one
Sanctimonious voice
...Savoring policies..
Cherry-pick choice
…..All said and done
Suggest the bigoted mind
...And hypocrisy's child..
Simply both…..of a kind
Respect and love are from the same stock.
Respect contains some amount of fear.
Love contains some amount of pity.
Respects fuels, and love sooths, the receiver.
Agnostics, Atheists and Bitter-Hearts
Beware of Belittling He, of The Highest Courts
He Is Not One To  Mess With, Or To Be Mocked
In His  Hand, Is The Key, To Your Own-Death-Lock …
Now, If You’re One To Say, “Oh, I Had A Good-Run
I’ve Had Fun, and Now, If It’s Done … It’s Done”
And If You Are Ready To Leave, When His Kingdom Comes …
You Won’t Mind, Your Last Breath, Blown To Oblivion
Respect another's wife
As your own mother
Treat another's possessions
As lump of dirt and spit
On it, my dear.
Think all other living creatures
As you would yourself
If you are learned, my dear.
Don't be envious and
Mischievous, my dear
You are condemned
By the laws of nature.
Don't do that makes your soul goes to hell
Don't make your body fit to be eaten by vultures.
It is all
But relative
And no way
Connected with me.
One should learn
How to respect others
One should know
He has no right
To disrespect others.
It is true
I am not unselfish,
To certain extend
I have to compromise
With the right of others.
I know I am
No way connected
With action and
With the fruits there of.
But I am here,
And I will be here
Before you, my dear
And it all depends
On your visual capacity.
What is there
To renounce
That I do not know
You are seeing all
At this moment
On the next moment
All these are not here
What to say about others
When I am not mine here.
Respect each and every one
You are for all in this procession.
The procession is  for peace
And you are to present with information.
No need of information act
You are to chalk out your program and react.
Action and reactions are necessary
They are both sides of the same coin.
Accept them all
They are yours as you call.
I believe
sincere respect
for others
is perhaps
the beginning
of true respect
for ourselves.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
A fly got stuck
right in the middle of a spoonful of honey on the dining  table.
i watch it die.
I have respect for you
in so many different ways.
Your fire and your passion,
your kindness and your love,
your strength to fight through all the pain.
I openly admire you for your
determined honest ways.
I respect you for having
given me so much of your
patience and precious time.
The second chances when I have
screwed up like a foolish child.
I respect that you've taken all the time
to truly get to know me.
Broken through and down so many walls
that so many others never had the
courage to even try and climb.
I love and respect you for understanding
why the walls were there foe such a long time.
I respect and admire your rock hard
perseverance in the face of hate and doubt.
I truly can't tell you all the ways
I respect and love you for there's too
much there to count.
Just know that I love you dear,
respect you and hold you as a hero
that I so admire and who's loving
dedication and confidence I look to and aspire.
Respect is earned
Respect is given
Respect is not demanded
Respect is not forced
To give others respect
Is our tradition our culture
My dear, forget not
As you sow so you reap
Go on your own trip
The engine of respect
You see it is auto
Never bother who says what
You say whatever you like
As freedom of speech is there .
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Have
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Show
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Give
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Learn
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Share
Respect Is Something That You And Me Ought To Know
Respect is what you earn not command
That is something some find hard to understand
You earn respect if respect you do show
From people in your life you've come to know
Of Respect or lack of we do read of and hear
Though 'tis a thing that cannot be born of fear
Of somebody who has power over you
In your feigned respect your feelings are not true.
Many may respect and admire the high achievers of the town
And applaud them on their journey to renown
But with the many some do disagree
Through different eyes we see things differently.
Respect is something you can only show
For one that you feel privileged for to know
And of any shackles true respect is free
That's how it is and that's how 'twill always be.
Its as simple as this
Respect me
and ill respect you
cross me and ull see
what ill do to you
respect me
and ill respect you
hurt me and ull see
what ill do to you
respect me
and ill respec you
play me and ull see
what ill do to you.
respect me
and ill respect you
fake on me and you will see
what ill do to you.
respect me
and ill respect you
its as simple as that
RESPECT YOUR MOM AND DAD;
IF NOT, THEN YOUR FUTURE WILL BE BAD.
AND YOU WILL ALWAYS REMAIN SAD.
YOU GIVE RESPECT, THEY WILL GIVE YOU BLESSINGS;
AND YOU WILL BECOME THE KING.
THIS IS THE FACT;
NOW, IF YOU WILL NEGLECT;
AND DON'T GIVE THEM RESPECT;
THEN AFTER SOME TIME YOU WILL REGRET.
THEY CAN BE YOUNG OR OLD;
AND THEY ALWAYS CARRY YOUR LOAD.
SO, WE SHOULD ALWAYS REMEMBER THAT
THEY ARE OUR SECOND GOD.
YOU CAN BE SIKH, HINDU, MUSLIM OR JAIN;
FIRSTLY YOU SHOULD BE A GOOD MAN.
Respect to the ballas on the court today.
Respect to the playas who listen to what we say.
Respect to the game for it isn't quite done.
Respect for all the athletes who did it for fun.
Respect all that try even though it's hard.
Respect to those who keep trying despite the scars.
Respect goes a long way, the harder they try.
Respect to the legends who will never die.
Sept-2005
Rejoice
Educate
Sympathy
Pride
Energi ze
Connect
Take the time
Respect each peer
Respect each foe more
Attributes stand next to your conscience’s core
Respect each night
Respect each day
Actions reveal your character in every way
Respect each creature
Respect each beast
Trust unveils truth hidden behind nature’s mist
Respect each cloud
Respect each grain of sand
Mercy will offer you her helping hand
Respect each color
Respect each race
Equality speaks only of mercy and grace
Respect each river
Respect each pond
Mother Nature conveys her great wonders and beyond
Walk into each day,
With your heart soaked in hope and joy
As day fades and night endures
Respect will never destroy
Respect
Begins
At home
Children
Want to
Be
What they
See
If you
Don't
Respect
Your
Wife
Yo ur
Son
Will
Never
Respect
The women
In his life
respect your parents
respect your life
respect other people
respect elders
respect loved ones
If we can not respect another
How can we expect them to respect us
If we can not respect someone’s beliefs
How can we expect them to respect ours
If we can not respect another’s race
How can we expect that race to respect us
If we can not respect others
How can we expect respect in return
Everyone expects respect
No matter who they are
The only way to gain it
Is to start treating everyone
As a friend, a brother, a sister
As part of our extended family
No matter what colour or creed they are
Only then you will start to get
The respect you so dearly crave
respect the finger
that points the way.
the hand that takes yours,
the feet walking by your side.
the breath shared,
and the sweat mingled.
respect the scars that
remind you of yourself....
respect the love
that gives all without regret!
All creatures deep inside are quite aware
that it's the heart and, with it, its sweet beat
only its never-ending flutter lets us share
a bit of time upon this planet, where we meet
so many creatures and, above all real humans
who all do strive to stay as long as they're allowed
they fiddle with their health and look at cardiac lumens
and hope the gods remember what the sheep have vowed.
There is a little thing that's often mentioned
it does concern our interpersonal communication
no matter, highly motivated or so well-intentioned
it's what may make us  give enough consideration
to one small word, and that is, vaguely, called respect.
Respect for the law
and for Ma and Pa,
for the crooked Police
for Canadian geese,
for the Judges and Preachers
and for needlework teachers
for the butchers and bakers
and the skilled coffinmakers,
for the nurses and bitches
and burglars and snitches
for all druggies and whores
and the owners of stores
thus, the list could continue
to a different venue
but suffice it to say
that respect is not play
and it can't be demanded
or delivered and handed
against payment of gold
no, respect can't be sold.
If your heart can take care
of necessities, bare
you can use all your time
to prepare and to climb
'til you reach Peak Respect
where you'll sit and reflect
and look inside your mind
where you possibly find
in the tangle of nerve
the respect you deserve.
LORD, teach us to hace and show respect for each other each day,
Patience and kindness to listen to what others have to say.
We all have a need to turn to others at times,
Teach us to have enough respect to reach out, and not act blind.
Teach us to respect that others can teach us things in life as we walk,
Teach us to respect good criticism to us as with others we talk.
LORD just teach us to in all things to respect and show love each day,
That is what we ask you today as we pray.
Is a valued virtue,
Priceless than any treasure...
Can not sold or bought by gold!
Respect is a lesson that everyone should learn
Respect must be given before expected in return
Respect is something that comes free,
But is not easily earned
Respect is authority,
Accepted by the majority
Without respect chaos takes affect
First a great relationship is about two things, first,
Find out the similarities and second, respect the differences.
Respect is a two-way street, if you want to get it you have to give it
I have found if you respect yourself others will respect you
The secret of a happy life is respect.
Respect for yourself and respect for others
Love is honesty. Love is a mutual respect for one another
This generation has lost the true meaning of romance.
There are so many songs that disrespect women.
You can’t treat the woman you love as a piece of meat.
You should treat your love like a princess.
Give her love songs, something with real meaning.
Maybe I’m old fashioned but to respect the woman you love should be a priority.
Love is honesty. Love is a mutual respect for one another
And respect for ourselves guides our morals
Respect for others guides our manners
Two people can only live as one when each is prepared to give
And receive trust and understanding.
Above tha, t lies respect.
Without respect for how the other feels, no marriage is worthwhile
I respect another man’s religion, or color or creed.
I respect, and follow, the will of my maker.
I respect, the truth, no matter how unpopular.
I respect a good work ethic.
I respect the values on which this country was founded.
I respect, those who would champion the under privileged.
I respect those of differences, who seek common ground.
I respect those faithful to principal.
I respect, change, that is for the better.
I respect an honest day’s work.
I respect the great talents of the entertainment world.
I respect, thought provoking works, of the written word.
I respect the unquenchable thirst of creativity.
I respect the farmers and workers that toil in the field.
I respect the good in man.
I respect the virtue in woman.
I respect the innocence of children.
I respect the generosity of mankind.
Most of all I respect the maker of
life and the love, that each of us have within us.
All the diversity groups in the world won't help any situation.
One solution is getting to know one another, then deciding whether or not we like a person for who they are.
It's a way to combat what some see as racism.
We're not meant to like everyone we meet and that's okay.
Live and let live, and respect the fact that we can't all get along.
That's what makes the world unique and diverse.
Trying to make people fit some preconceived idea of a few people is totally absurd and asinine.
Leave people alone, go your own way, find your own place in life and don't expect others to follow your pathway.
Respect, respect me, I say
In every single way
Respect me day by day
Don’t put me down
When we are out and about with people around
Playing me like a fool
Portraying me as one who never went to school
Respect me sweet heart
Till life sets us apart
Respect my needs
Listen and take heed
Respect to me is what means love
And not those commonly spoken words,
‘I love you’
To respect me is to publicly and privately honour me
To respect me is to listen attentively while I speak
To respect me is to bread and butter my desire to be free
To respect me is to stand by me when I am weak
Look up! Look up to me!
I may not be perfect
Nor a genius of an intellect
Respect, respect me & our love will stand erect!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Do not restrict respect
to age because someone is old
show real respect to all
but respect most
heart motivation
of people worthy
of that respect.
Respect is given
respect is earned
respect enriches
respect ennobles
graces civilization
elevates humanity
sows seeds of peace.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Respect teachers
Respect elders
Respect the wise.
Be with purity
Be upright
Be with celibacy.
Make non-violence
Your principle
Penance of the body.
We are not the same human,
as we get experienced,
day by day non stop,
and we are not stagnant,
but flowing with the current,
holding hand to hand,
collecting memories of,
new relationship,
forgetting the old,
hurt and be hurt,
happy and let others to be happy.
at certain part of our life,
our sweet presence,
may become unnecessary,
to the loved ones,
so we have to pick up,
the courage and wisdom,
to draw the gentle demarcation,
where everyone will be the king and queen,
in their own territory.
Respect! Respect!
Time I respect you
Time is of great essence
Respect time
Before it imposes on you a sentence
As if you have committed a crime
Time is precious like a diamond
Time must come first never second
Respect time
For time itself is the sublime
Time never waits
Time decides fates
In time itself you create
The food you eat off your plate
In time itself you love and hate
And find a partner or some mates
Respect time, underrate it not
Don’t say ‘time passed, I forgot’
There is a time to be late
There is a time to debate
There is a time to wait for someone
Before time decides to shorten the fun
Remember time waits for no one
Time also catches up with those on the run
Respect time
The essence of time
Is its continuous presence
And its everlasting absence
And denial of the past tense
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Address with respect those at par
Even when they’re younger to you.
Address with respect those below
When they are elder to you.
Their regard for you will go up.
16.01.2012
Some people die unsung
Even with heroic record nothing is sung
People forget their sacrifice
Even state fails to honor the promise
Dependent families run door to door
They helplessly watch and think about neighbor
They look at far distant sky
With only one questioning mind, why?
What drives people to sacrifice?
For motherland with simple advice
“Die for honorable cause and attain heaven”
Does this sentence make sense even?
The state suffers attitude
It looses the magnitude
The cause is lost in wilderness
People resent sacrifice and painfully face
All talks of honor becomes joke
The valor is lost behind thick smoke
No youth now prefers defense job
As their fair name is deliberately robbed
Give some respect to families
They want no mercy
Give them due share
Do not give them frightening stare
Respect to it has more than a one sided way
Do not expect the respect of others if respect to them you don't pay
You treat other people as you'd like them to treat you
And in turn they will give you the respect you are due
You may be the wealthiest and most powerful person in your town
And you feel that you have the right for to put others down
And others respect you or so to you it does appear
But between feigned and true respect the difference is quite clear
Despotic leaders believe the masses them do revere
But this sort of feigned adulation is adulation through fear
To protest in such circumstance they'd be risking their own lives
And the lives of their children as well as their wives
If you do not respect then respect do not expect to receive
Just a known fact of life that one ought to believe.
Respect women for they bring a lot into this world
they are just more than procreators bringing in girl or a little boy.
They are the caregivers, the nurturers, and have a gentle touch
do respect feminine energy and honor it more than a bunch.
Don't abuse women no longer on this planet so dear
by being disrespectful like slapping them on the rear.
How disrespectful can that be?
It shows the person who does it has no respect or integrity.
Written by Christina Sunrise on August 12,2013
Respect Your Dog
Dogs have feelings like everyone else,
people treat them badly,
thinking they are beneath us.
Dogs help us spiritually, but people can’t see,
how they hurt man’s best friend dearly.
Now what species would leave its pack,
Live with another, be loyal and watch its back?
Dog is the sacrifice to save your life,
when wolf eats your dog,
you are only hurt
like an arm that’s been knifed.
Need I say more
to defend dogs galore?
Sanu nahi karna chahida apne mother-father;
Da niradar.
Te karna chahida hai ohna naal pyaar; te satkar;
As ohi hai sade palanhaar.
Us time bache nahi sochde ki oh hai apne maa-pe
Vaste mushkil jado oh hunde hain infant;
Par us time ehna nu lagdi hai mushkil jado ohna de
Maa-pe ho jande hai ehna te dependent.
Oh apne maa-pe nu dinde hai chorr; te rishta dinde ne torrr.
As us time ohna nu iko gal lagdi hai sahi;
ki ohna de maa-pe ne kuch nikita ohna layi.
Oh bhul jande ne kiven us de maa-pe ne us nu laad-ladaya;
Kiven usde ronde hoe chehre nu muskuraya;
Kiven us de har kam vich ban ke rahe saaya.
Kiven us nu para ke banda banaya;
Kiven us nu har mushkil ton bachaya.
Kiven usdi manpasand chiz le ke usnu muskuraya;
Kiven har divar nu us di manjil te aan ton hataya.
Kiven usanu loriyan ga-ga ke sulaya;
Kiven usdi har galti nu bhulaya;
Kiven us te paise kharch kar ke, loan le ke paraya.
Ki kuch ni kita us de layi;
Par jado oh bacha hoea vada tan ohi maa-pe ban ge mushkil usde layi.
Is layi mere vironkare opne maa-peda satkar;
As ohi hai sade palanhaar.
respect yourself!
dont sell your time
too cheaply.
dont live for possessions.
dont give yourself
to anyone you dont love.
dont try to be
like everyone else.
dont settle!
dont always follow...
ask questions!
feel free to doubt!
dont blame your life
on anyone else.
take responsibility
for yourself.
respect yourself!
Respect defines itself                                                By itself for itself anytime, but                                     Self-respect is another world of respect                              Simply because it means that someone                                  Respects himself and by doing this                                    He respects others fully...                                          Without that is called self-respect term, then                        The whole life will be turned up-side-down...                        We love to respect,                                                  We love to be respected anytime, and                                  Self-respect completes respect itself                                 Until the last moment...                                             Life has no meaning without                                           That respect or that self-respect anytime...                         _________________________________________________ _____________________
Self respect is self love
Self respect provoke love for others
Self respect is GOD respect
Self respect is self norishing
Self respect is self control
Respect and love
Respect and praise
Respect and join
Respect and rejoyce
Respect and cellebrate
Respect and enjoy
For the love of god is respect.
When sun is above the horizon
and, the light it spreads reaches our eye
we forget the darkness, and think ourselves be blessed
Sun's power to light the glory world is self respect.
When rain enters our rooftop,
it doesnt ask whether you are rich or poor
the melody of the sweetness is for everybody
you may call it the rains self respect.
Wonderful stars are there in our sky
and they twinkle to make the sky looks like in a wedding gown
and, its sweetness is preserved in the fairy tales,
thats the self respect that the stars have.
when I mingled to write down a poetry,
thinking it to be my only work supported by my passion,
the happiness I get after make people smile,
thats certainly the self respect I give to myself.
'Your only enemy
is yourself'...
Easy to say?
Prove me wrong.
يعرف الاحترام                                  نفسه بنفسه لنفسه في اي وقت                    و لكن                                        احترام النفس هي عالم آخر للاحترام                لأنه يقصد به                                  ان شخصا ما                                   يحترم نفسه و بعمل ذلك                          فهو يحترم الآخرين بشكل تام...                  بدون هذا الذي يدعى ' احترام الذات'            عندئذ                                        ستنقلب الحياة كلها رأسا على عقب...           اننا نحب ان نحترم                               و نحب ان نحترم في اي وقت                         و يكمل 'احترام الذات'                         الاحترام ذاته                                  حتى اللحظة الاخيرة...                          لامعنى للحياة                                  بدون ذلك الاحترام او                           ذلك ' الاحترام ذاته'                           في اي وقت...                                 _____________________________________________
Do not time respect
seasoned age because
someone is now old
show sincere respect to all
but respect most
motivation and heart
of people worthy
of matured respect.
Show courtesy respect
to all suffering humanity
polite considerate conduct
in face of flood adversity
who knows true history
each soul life endured suffers
hurt response to hostilities
only God perceives accurately.
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Jesus I learned you lived and lived
Jesus we heard you died and die
Jesus I see them painting of you so white
Jesus I hear them sing, you lackey of God they sang.
Jesus I know people today use you wrong
they came with guns in hand
shot our minds with
untrue words
Black – the meaning of sin
Black – the heathen savages
Black – the false, the lies
Black – the inhuman without a home and culture
These pink skinned people say “You light of God”
and make us wash black sins to be close to white.
O, Jesus, if so you were true
You were black
fighting against a white regime.
O, Jesus, they tear away our hearts
that yell for Nature
They will do things of tension, fear, control,
death, brutality and murder to our Aboriginal people’s
beliefs.
Why they must do this O, Jesus, this once Jesus
All in the name of you
Jesus Christ
“Offering, offering, hear the pennies fall
Everyone for Jesus, the Church shall have them all”
Respect your elders all if they deserve;
Respect your servants too who you well serve;
Respect your father for tilling the soil;
Respect your mother for her love and toil.
Respect all teachers who gave you knowledge;
Respect your friend who saved you from the ledge;
Respect all good minds who advised you good;
Respect the man of God who gave soul’s food.
Respect all strangers who were all Godsends;
Respect your foes who taught you self-defense;
Respect those evil men who you troubled;
Respect the tempter who well you misled.
Respect your conscience which tells you what’s right;
Respect your God who is your Friend and Guide.
The 12 steps to gain respect...more or less
The more you demand respect
The less respect you possess
The more humility you possess
The less humiliation you own
The more kindness you own
The less penance you owe
The more respect you owe
The less friends you have
The more friends you have
The less help you need
The more help you need
The less arrogance you show
The more arrogance you show
The less love you will know
The more love you know
The less hate will grow
The more hate you grow
The less wisdom you display
The more wisdom you display
The less foolishness you practice
The more foolishness you practice
The less love you will know from Jehovah
The more love you know from Jehovah
The less respect you demand...
The youth of today but not all I may say,
have no integrity or moral principles.
They have no qualms about who they insult
whether it be their parents or another adult.
Respect has gone out of the window
it is no longer here. It meant something
in our lifetime we held it very dear.
No-one gives up their seat to  elderly
people anymore, what does it matter
old woman if your feet are sore.
They shun and ignore the older generation
as though they were not there.
they don’t give a damn they really don’t care.
They won’t be so belligerent and bold,
When they too  eventually grow old.
Maybe they too will look back  with sadness
by their actions, and their disgrace.
for making the world a poorer place.
And respect will stay a spectre of the past,
my god, what a pity it did not last.
Lovely and beautiful woman
Can be looked upon as human
She can be guide and mentor in life
She can prove as good wife too
She has everything in form of natural gift
She is embodiment of strength with no shift
She is known for her kindness
Always keeps smile on face
Her life revolves around family
Fully conscious of duty assigned by an almighty
She sees everything In her mission
And performs till lat with compassion
She applies no mind
But remains always kind
Uses emotions of heart
Very real and as natural art
Trust and respect
As she holds all noble acts
As sister, wife and mother
She holds position better
The world will not stop turning if friends we had none
the world would be a better place having a genuine one.
The rain will not stop falling because we cannot trust
the rain will fall as tears when a friendship has been bust.
The sun will not stop shining when friends walk away
the sun will shine brighter having friends with you today.
The moon will always shine way up there in the sky
the world will continue to turn wether friends you and I.
The love thats between friends is so easily broken
our trust is all we can give others in return as a token.
Respect and hospitality we can all try and share
being there for each other showing that we really care.
Those who spend decades learning about Nature of Nature's ways will tell you they have much to know
Her deepest secrets we will never learn of and our wonder of her only seem to grow
One could live for a thousand years and yet not know all about her as her most precious secrets with us she will never share
And yet in part due to us she does seem much the poorer as many of her life forms either extinct or rare
Many of her waterways by us have been polluted our factories puff up black smoke to the sky
Why do we try to harm the one who feeds us that is the question many have asked why
Without us Nature would do nicely though for to live on her we do depend
She supplies all of our needs for our existence though to her we are not a good friend
In technology humans have come far and many human achievements are great
But we've not been respectful to Nature and that's something we cannot celebrate
But Nature she will live forever and like her Seasons we come to life and die
Immortality for us Homo Sapiens has surely been based on a lie
We depend on her for our very existence and our achievements to her seem so small
And though we are one of her life forms we do not respect her at all.
have we forgotten
what respect is?
did we ever really know?
every human being deserves
the respect of every other human being,
and should respect every other
human being as well!
it has nothing to do with
color, religion, political views,
or financial status!
respect is a God given right,
and responsibility!
respect is about being human.
treat people the way you wish to
be treated... treat people like people!
I am sitting in the back of the bus
Observing the children play
With the weather just gorgeous
On a very lovely day
A mother of two
Tries to discipline her son
He just would not listen
He just wanted to have fun
As the mother told him to sit down
He raised his foot at her
I couldn't believe what I saw
I was left in a stare
Where is the respect
Has this boy lost his mind
The situation is looking bleak
As the boy's behavior is so unkind
What to expect?
Dirty dust under my feet.
Am I a cheat?
I am holding your hands
I am touching your forehead
I am in front of your eyes
I am a flower in the garland You wear.
Tell me, tell me, who am I
And You are in equanimity
With new clothes every moment
Taking me upwards with and without my consent.
All these are here not for the sake of show
I realized and you called me loudly
I want to sacrifice myself for You
And You are declaring my victory at the end.
What to do with that victory
That I do not know and I am sure
I know not the beginning and the end
And in the middle I am in my life threefold.
The dog has shrunk between the brake and clutch. His shaking shakes a two-ton truck. From a God
woman...
divine made flesh,
births,
nourishes,
loves,
gives,
sensual intimacy,
spiritual companion...
the most human,
creation,
darkness and light;
the door of eternity,
opening and closing
by her will!
woman...
demands,
deserves,
RESPECT!
i am a woman
respected
some women
i need to respect
few women
are not respectable
but
i am respecting them
a golden rule
i am respected for i am a woman
i am ought to respect other women
no matter what they do
they act
they pose
they say
i have to respect them
that is their rights
to be respected
for a woman like me
and a women like them
RESPECT
is essential.
is it better to be feared or respected.
in respect you stop no longer moveing forward you gain nothing.
in fear you are hated but not to be qestioned
Look at the moon
Shining so bright
Look at the sun
It’s such a sight
Look at the river
Flowing so fast
I wonder, how long
These three will last
The sorrow of riverside blossoms inexplicable,
And nowhere to complain -- I've gone half crazy.
I look up our southern neighbor. But my friend in wine
Gone ten days drinking. I find only an empty bed.
A thick frenzy of blossoms shrouding the riverside,
I stroll, listing dangerously, in full fear of spring.
Poems, wine -- even this profusely driven, I endure.
Arrangements for this old, white-haired man can wait.
A deep river, two or three houses in bamboo quiet,
And such goings on: red blossoms glaring with white!
Among spring's vociferous glories, I too have my place:
With a lovely wine, bidding life's affairs bon voyage.
Looking east to Shao, its smoke filled with blossoms,
I admire that stately Po-hua wineshop even more.
To empty golden wine cups, calling such beautiful
Dancing girls to embroidered mats -- who could bear it?
East of the river, before Abbot Huang's grave,
Spring is a frail splendor among gentle breezes.
In this crush of peach blossoms opening ownerless,
Shall I treasure light reds, or treasure them dark?
At Madame Huang's house, blossoms fill the paths:
Thousands, tens of thousands haul the branches down.
And butterflies linger playfully -- an unbroken
Dance floating to songs orioles sing at their ease.
I don't so love blossoms I want to die. I'm afraid,
Once they are gone, of old age still more impetuous.
And they scatter gladly, by the branchful. Let's talk
Things over, little buds ---open delicately, sparingly.
along the river fuji
bright, where a mountain
stands before me tall
one hundred people gather
on the other side for qingming
but I lean against a cherry tree
so that I can fall asleep
like I used to in the spring
against broken cattle fences
i would awake at dusk
of the next day-finally rested,
when everything else was asleep
then the wild pink cherry tree
would breath its breath of fragrance
and my world would change
The rivers edge
becomes a pledge
Rapids, riptides, undertows
I'm diving in and letting go
I'm diving in
with all my sins
I've gone down deep
I'm thankful that I took the leap
Painful, purges, purity
washed away entirely
Thankful of the Lord's decree
The river now runs through me
Can’t stop looking at your picture,
hypnotized.
Your beauty a blaze from within.
The attraction would
not be there if it were not
for the essence you offer.
A cool drink for a parched soul.
A lake gathering fresh waters
of wisdom
from the flow of your river.
Mesmerized, captured, infatuated.
I want to drink you,
because,
a lake refuses no river.
Inside the river are
the sky, the cloud, and the sun.
In my hands’ bowl is the river.
If I throw up my hands,
the river spills in drops, scattering
sky, cloud, and sun all o’er me.
From my hands’ bowl, if I drink
the river, then within me,
the sun, the cloud, and the sky.
Tell me, who is in who?
Shall we gather at the river,
Where bright angel feet have trod,
With its crystal tide for ever flowing
by the throne of God?
Gather at the river!
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river,
Yes well gather at the river
that flows by the throne of God.
Shall we gather? Shall we gather at the river?
Because living is a river of ordinary moments,
each moment connected to the next,
there is nowhere we can go to escape
from our fate which is to merge
every swell of the stream
back into the ordinary,
and all I can hope for is that gentle, light
sense of well-being as my little canoe bobs
in the current of everyday,
sailing downstream, ever downstream.
I am stunned by the beauty of the ordinary,
so that sometimes the ordinary seems mis-named, and yet
it is ordinary because it is quiet with no fanfare:
a man picking his way through the oranges
at the farmer's market,
a woman taking a leisurely bath,
a child playing in the grass in the back yard,
all the people in a street just walking.
No one is enthroned above every one else,
this river is absolutely democratic,
every thrill, every intoxication flows on downstream
as does, sooner or later, every sorrow, every loss,
though those are a little harder,
the hole seems to take longer for the waters to fill.
No one is famous to the ordinary,
you can't impress it.
The ordinary is the real wife of every man,
the real husband of every woman.
It is where you return from all your expeditions,
and it is all anyone could ever truly want.
And so today, when I received fulfillment
of a certain small desire I'd had as a poet,
and I felt  hands starting to tug at me inside,
trying to take me somewhere,
trying to hoist me on their shoulders
and parade me through the streets,
it was like the dividing was beginning
of everything from everything else.
I felt the walls of 'I' begin to solidify
and separate me from everything,
the way a butterfly feels
sitting on a branch in the sun,
waiting for his wings to dry and chitin to harden
after crawling from his chrysalis,
ready after that to preen and flit and die,
and I reply to those voices, 'No, thank you',
and I say to those tugging hands, 'No, thank you',
I do not want to be
taken from the flow of the ordinary
to any pinnacle or promontory from which
I will only have to climb, or fall, down again,
I do not want to be special in that way,
I want the tick of thoughts in my mind to run out
and the storehouse of thoughts to be emptied
and not replaced by any others,
I want to disappear, disappear
and become that current
that all distinct drops are lost in, and then
the ocean into which all rivers go to die
The moon shimmers in green water.
White herons fly through the moonlight.
The young man hears a girl gathering water-chestnuts:
into the night, singing, they paddle home together.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Hamil
And he showed me a pure River of Water of Life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the Throne of God and of the Lamb." -- Rev. xxii. 1
Shall we gather at the river
Where bright angel feet have trod;
With its crystal tide forever
Flowing by the throne of God?
CHORUS.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
On the margin of the river,
Washing up its silver spray,
We will walk and worship ever,
All the happy, golden day.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
On the bosom of the river,
Where the Saviour-king we own,
We shall meet, and sorrow never
'Neath the glory of the throne. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
Ere we reach the shining river,
Lay we every burden down;
Grace our spirits will deliver,
And provide a robe and crown. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
At the smiling of the river,
Rippling with the Saviour's face,
Saints, whom death will never sever,
Lift their songs of saving grace. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
Soon we'll reach the shining river,
Soon our pilgrimage will cease,
Soon our happy hearts will quiver
With the melody of peace. Cho.
Yes, we'll gather at the river,
The beautiful, the beautiful river --
Gather with the saints at the river
That flows by the throne of God.
There is a hill ahead,
And Death is behind the hill;
I urge the horses onward, onward....
There is a river here;
Always, there is a river
Just when Death scents victory....
White current seethes
About black rocks;
How fair the meadow is,
After crossing the water....
Beside the raging river rhyme
poetry florets flower with prose.
Scripted sweet petals grow and entwine
English gardens of fragrant rose.
Immortalized in pantomime,
the sonnet's nuance smell,
intertwines with ivy vines
and comely cockleshell.
Flowing water of endless words
gather and come hither.
Make known your message meaningful
before the blossoms wither.
Why hurry little river?
Off to the sea.
All there is to do, tis'sink in blue,
And all forgotten be.
Stay right here with me,
In the pasture and mead.
Where graceful maples rest,
And grazing cattle feed.
O' my melancholy river,
Fed by lazy, winding streams.
Slow down thy hurried pace,
Linger in my woodland dreams.
Little river rest,
Your banks so clean and fair.
Wild Toms edge out a drink,
On a wing and prayer.
In August heat and sunbeams glisten,
O'er your shallows and sandbars listen.
In nocturnal reverence you're so divine,
My little river, defying all but  time.
Your whisping willows haven,
Bluebirds sleeping in their nest,
Brittle branches sway and swerve,
Steadfast they stand the test.
My little river that goes to and fro,
You wander as if, a need to know.
In Southern air, facing snows embrace,
Run fast or slow, you've won the race.
So why hurry, little river?
Trickling off to oceans sea.
All to do, forget the blue,
And stay right here with me.
Carrying gentle peace and bliss
Gifted by God for selflessness,
Love you carry for infinite times,
Lovely river you burble, burble.
For uniting with a sea so far,
You travel distance of perception,
Breaking up into turbulence in joy,
You give continuous murmuring noise.
Gurgling sound we hear near you,
Your running water makes bubbling,
This hollow bubbling sound amazes,
We know in true love you gurgle.
You burble and gurgle and flow,
River you flow towards sea to unite,
Carry us in your flow towards God,
We are eager to meet father of heaven.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,22 September 2017. All rights reserved.
WHEN by the broad stream thou dost dwell,
Oft shallow is its sluggish flood;
Then, when thy fields thou tendest well,
It o'er them spreads its slime and mud.
The ships descend ere daylight wanes,
The prudent fisher upward goes;
Round reef and rock ice casts its chains,
And boys at will the pathway close.
To this attend, then, carefully,
And what thou wouldst, that execute!
Ne'er linger, ne'er o'erhasty be,
For time moves on with measured foot.
Hot, long lazy days
Sun dazed dragonflies skimming
Light filters through leaves
We swim among the lilies
Dreaming of the perfect love.
FLOW on, ye lays so loved, so fair,
On to Oblivion's ocean flow!
May no rapt boy recall you e'er,
No maiden in her beauty's glow!
My love alone was then your theme,
But now she scorns my passion true.
Ye were but written in the stream;
As it flows on, then, flow ye too!
This is one of my wirdest dreams
Walking by the river thinking things out,
I see a girl crying and one with a pout.
As I draw closer they both disapear
And mysteriously I feel tears
I wonder what can this mean
The next day I dream the same
Only this time they were the ones that came
But this time the one that was crying says 'why do you treat him so bad? '
Then I understood-the child in me wanted me to treat life the way it should and to enjoy it creatively!
By the river I stand
Waves amass together with ease
Along the river banks sand
With little ripples as they please
How fascinating, these waves really tease!
Bestowing upon me a quiet sense of peace
As the tension in my muscles release
Watching with a shiver
I gaze with marvel at the river
For I am an avid believer
There is more than life it delivers
This feeling is mutual
The river signifies something spiritual
Right down below it is factual
Life form continues to mature and grow
And whilst the river flows
Who knows what life holds for us tomorrow
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I was a young man my trade was a deck hand
my first love the clipper the old Rosalea
we sailed from the old town down by the river
to Bombay and Shanghai we traded for tea
I met a young girl down by the river
she said we could marry and live on a farm
I told her I'm sorry my heart's with another
we kissed as we watched the sun o'er the yard arm
I know when my time comes and I meet my maker
I'll have no regrets I'll be happy he'll see
for I'll have my ashes cast out on the river
that I once supported and now supports me.
Down by the river we did go
hand in hand in a lovers
hold
Momma and daddy said
this is a love that can not grow
and he must go
But momma an daddy i love him so.
you stay with him then you must go
. don't make
me chose for i love you too
Down by the river we did go hand
in hand in a lovers hold
Momma and daddy you dont know,
His love for me is pure as gold
Theres something you two
must know.
Down by the river we did go hand
in hand in a lover hold
Raining so hard we could hardly see
We slow danced by the rivers edge
He said no other could love you like i
Then i slipped an fell and the river
took me away
I fought the river but the river won
Then a bright light shined
Saw an angel reaching for me
Momma an daddy you dont know
When my eyes open this is what i seen
.Had been pulled
from river laid me upon the shore
Blanket of white feathers were
keeping me warm
As he stood with tear filled eyes
A bright light shine
And upond his back were angel wings
.He said
God sent me here to love you
Momma and daddy you dont know.
My choice is with him now i go
For oneday i'll have my own angel wings
And will never let him go.
Momma and daddy you dont know
Down
by the river we did go hand in hand
in a lovers hold
down by the river
we did go
written by
copyrights jackie kirby 2/3/05
Hark, the sound of it drawing nearer,
Clink of hobble and brazen bell;
Mark the passage of stalwart shearer,
Bidding Monaro soil farewell.
Where is he making for?  Down the river,
Down the river with eager tread;
Where is he making for?  Down the river,
Down the river to seek a 'shed'.
Where is his dwelling on old Monaro?
Buckley's Crossing, or Jindaboine?
Dry Plain is it, or sweet Bolaira?
P'raps 'tis near where the rivers join
Where is he making for? Down the river.
When, oh when, will he turn him back?
Soft sighs follow him down the river,
Moist eyes gaze at his fading track.
See, behind him his pack-horse, ambling,
Bears the weight of his master's kit,
Oft and oft from the pathway rambling,
Crops unhampered by cruel bit.
Where is he making for?  Equine rover,
Sturdy nag from the Eucumbene,
Tempted down by the thought of clover,
Springing luscious in Riverine.
Dreams of life and its future chances,
Snatch of song to beguile the way;
Through green crannies the sunlight glances,
Silver-gilding the bright 'Jack Shay'.
"So long, mate, I can stay no longer,
So long, mate, I've no time to stop,
Pens are waiting me at Mahonga,
Bluegong, Grubben and Pullitop.
"What! you say that the river's risen?
What! that the melted snow has come?
What! that it locks and bars our prison?
Many's the mountain stream I've swum.
I must onward and cross the river,
So long, mate, for I cannot stay;
I must onward and cross the river,
Over the river there lies my way."
One man short when the roll they're calling;
One man short at old Bobby Rand's;
Heads are drooping and tears are falling
Up on Monaro's mountain lands.
Where is he making for? Down the river,
Down the river of slimy bed;
Where is he making for? Down the river,
Down the river that bears him, dead.
Do not look for the stones
in water above the mud,
the boat is gone.
No longer with nets and baskets
the river is dotted.
The sun wick,
the marsh marigold flickered out in rain.
Only the willow still bears witness,
in its roots
the secrets of tramps lie hidden,
their paltry treasures,
a rusty fishhook,
a bottle full of sand,
a tine with no bottom,
in which to preserve
conversations long forgotten.
On the boughs,
empty nests of the penduline titmice,
shoes light as birds.
No one slips them
over children's feet.
Translated by Michael Hamburger
forbidden waters
makes one weak
a drowning man
knows no peace
flooding river
winding down
like a warden
grants no release
flooding river
gonna take my home
leave me
naked and alone
mean old river
so unkind
shows no mercy
leaves nothin' behind
The river does not walk on its
journey struggling to get
to its destination because
it takes its step in a direction
that has been destined for it.
So my brother, like the river
you would continue to flow
in this life without any struggle
till you reach wherever you want
to end this journey of yours.
Did you ever see the tree
attempting to end where its
height should end on its journey
towards the blue skies above?
That is the way you would grow
in life as nothing would cut
short whatever height you
wish to attain in life, my brother.
blood rushing within
keeps my cold heart beating
keeps me living
Blood rushing out of me
Keeps the real pain at bay
Takes over all other thoughts
Gives me a focus
Gives me control
Blood upon the floor
Seeping towards the door
A river of past pain
A river of tears I’ve shed
A river of  tears I’ve bleed
A river to die by
Kabul town's by Kabul river --
Blow the bugle, draw the sword --
There I lef' my mate for ever,
Wet an' drippin' by the ford.
Ford, ford, ford o' Kabul river,
Ford o' Kabul river in the dark!
There's the river up and brimmin', an' there's 'arf a squadron swimmin'
'Cross the ford o' Kabul river in the dark.
Kabul town's a blasted place --
Blow the bugle, draw the sword --
'Strewth I sha'n't forget 'is face
Wet an' drippin' by the ford!
Ford, ford, ford o' Kabul river,
Ford o' Kabul river in the dark!
Keep the crossing-stakes beside you, an' they will surely guide you
'Cross the ford o' Kabul river in the dark.
Kabul town is sun and dust --
Blow the bugle, draw the sword --
I'd ha' sooner drownded fust
'Stead of 'im beside the ford.
Ford, ford, ford o' Kabul river,
Ford o' Kabul river in the dark!
You can 'ear the 'orses threshin', you can 'ear the men a-splashin',
'Cross the ford o' Kabul river in the dark.
Kabul town was ours to take --
Blow the bugle, draw the sword --
I'd ha' left it for 'is sake --
'Im that left me by the ford.
Ford, ford, ford o' Kabul river,
Ford o' Kabul river in the dark!
It's none so bloomin' dry there; ain't you never comin' nigh there,
'Cross the ford o' Kabul river in the dark?
Kabul town'll go to hell --
Blow the bugle, draw the sword --
'Fore I see him 'live an' well --
'Im the best beside the ford.
Ford, ford, ford o' Kabul river,
Ford o' Kabul river in the dark!
Gawd 'elp 'em if they blunder, for their boots'll pull 'em under,
By the ford o' Kabul river in the dark.
Turn your 'orse from Kabul town --
Blow the bugle, draw the sword --
'Im an' 'arf my troop is down,
Down an' drownded by the ford.
Ford, ford, ford o' Kabul river,
Ford o' Kabul river in the dark!
There's the river low an' fallin', but it ain't no use o' callin'
'Cross the ford o' Kabul river in the dark.
Clear Ancor, on whose silver-sanded shore
My soul-shrin'd saint, my fair Idea lies,
O blessed brook, whose milk-white swans adore
Thy crystal stream, refined by her eyes,
Where sweet myrrh-breathing Zephyr in the spring
Gently distills his nectar-dropping showers,
Where nightingales in Arden sit and sing
Amongst the dainty dew-impearled flowers;
Say thus, fair brook, when thou shalt see thy queen:
Lo, here thy shepherd spent his wand'ring years,
And in these shades, dear nymph, he oft hath been,
And here to thee he sacrific'd his tears.
Fair Arden, thou my Tempe art alone,
And thou, sweet Ancor, art my Helicon.
I dream of a heaven overlooking the river Nile
The Pyramids at a distance
Fishermen in rickety feluccas
A blazing September sunset
And you sitting next to me
Your face touched with a smile
Questions and confessions
Musings and impressions
Self-expression without permission
Soul searching free of inhibition
First experiences with no apprehension
Bliss and content beyond comprehension
Time frozen as emotions flow
A sense of security with an afterglow
Feelings soaring in crescendo
Tender words and sweet innuendo
Stolen moments to forever cherish
Shared memories that will never perish
By the river I stand:
Waves amass together
Will ease;
Along the river banks sand
With little ripples
As they please.
How fascinating these
Waves really tease!
Bestowing upon me a quiet
Sense of peace.
As the tension in my
Head release.
Watching with a shiver,
I GAZE WITH MARVEL AT THE
RIVER.
For, I am an avaid believer.
More than life it delivers.
The feeling is mutual.
The river signifies
Something spritual;
Right down below it is
Factual.
Life form continues to
Mature and grow.
And whilst the river flows.
Who knows
That life holds for us tomorrow.
{ 12/10/2006 }
I hear a river thro' the valley wander
Whose water runs, the song alone remaining.
A rainbow stands and summer passes under.
Enter this cavern Stranger! the ascent
Is long and steep and toilsome; here awhile
Thou mayest repose thee, from the noontide heat
O'ercanopied by this arch'd rock that strikes
A grateful coolness: clasping its rough arms
Round the rude portal, the old ivy hangs
Its dark green branches down, and the wild Bees,
O'er its grey blossoms murmuring ceaseless, make
Most pleasant melody. No common spot
Receives thee, for the Power who prompts the song,
Loves this secluded haunt. The tide below
Scarce sends the sound of waters to thine ear;
And this high-hanging forest to the wind
Varies its many hues. Gaze Stranger here!
And let thy soften'd heart intensely feel
How good, how lovely, Nature! When from hence
Departing to the City's crouded streets,
Thy sickening eye at every step revolts
From scenes of vice and wretchedness; reflect
That Man creates the evil he endures.
When the time keeps passing and the world goes round
and the sea is crashing at the cliffs and the sounds
erupting as the seabirds cry, you can watch the river
as the time goes by
And it's like it's holy and it can be hell
and you feel so lonely and you fear the smell
of the guns that fire then you see the light
of a rainbow dawning and you realise
that the river's flowing as the time goes by
And you met the people and you knew them well
and you said you loved them and you rang the bell
in the tree of life you watched them grow
and the world is turning as the river flows
The earth smells good and the sky turns gold
when the birds are singing and you bless the old
you can kiss your woman and it feels so right
as you touch the river as the time goes by
As you stand barefoot upon the morning shore
and you feel the centuries of death and war
and the wind is biting and it tears your skin
and the river's flowing where its always been
And the river washes and the river's clean
and the soul remembers where the river's been
as you watch it tumble and you watch it flow
your life's a river now you know, now you know
your life's a river now you know.
AS slowly wanders thy forsaken stream,
Wenbeck! the mossy-scatter'd rocks among,
In fancy's ear still making plaintive song
To the dark woods above: ah! sure I seem
To meet some friendly Genius in the gloom,
And in each breeze a pitying voice I hear
Like sorrow's sighs upon misfortune's tomb.
Ah! soothing are your quiet scenes -- the tear
Of him who passes weary on his way
Shall thank you, as he turns to bid adieu:
Onward a cheerless pilgrim he may stray,
Yet oft as musing memory shall review
The scenes that cheer'd his path with fairer ray,
Delightful haunts, he will remember you.
KNOW you the river near to Grez,
A river deep and clear?
Among the lilies all the way,
That ancient river runs to-day
From snowy weir to weir.
Old as the Rhine of great renown,
She hurries clear and fast,
She runs amain by field and town
From south to north, from up to down,
To present on from past.
The love I hold was borne by her;
And now, though far away,
My lonely spirit hears the stir
Of water round the starling spur
Beside the bridge at Grez.
So may that love forever hold
In life an equal pace;
So may that love grow never old,
But, clear and pure and fountain-cold,
Go on from grace to grace.
Koening knew now there was no one on the river.
Entering its brown mouth choking with lilies
and curtained with midges, Koenig poled the shallop
past the abandoned ferry and the ferry piles
coated with coal dust. Staying aboard, he saw, up
in a thick meadow, a sand-colored mule,
untethered, with no harness, and no signs
of habitation round the ruined factory wheel
locked hard in rust, and through whose spokes the vines
of wild yam leaves leant from overweight;
the wild bananas in the yellowish sunlight
were dugged like aching cows with unmilked fruit.
This was the last of the productive mines.
Only the vegetation here looked right.
A crab of pain scuttled shooting up his foot
and fastened on his neck, at the brain's root.
He felt his reason curling back like parchment
in this fierce torpor. Well, he no longer taxed
and tired what was left of his memory;
he should thank heaven he had escaped the sea,
and anyway, he had demanded to be sent
here with the others - why get this river vexed
with his complaints? Koenig wanted to sing,
suddenly, if only to keep the river company -
this was a river, and Koenig, his name meant King.
They had all caught the missionary fever:
they were prepared to expiate the sins
os savages, to tame them as he would tame this river
subtly, as it flowed, accepting its bends;
he had seen how other missionaries met their ends -
swinging in the wind, like a dead clapper when
a bell is broken, if that sky was a bell -
for treating savages as if they were men,
and frightening them with talk of Heaven and Hell.
But I have forgotten our journey's origins,
mused Koenig, and our purpose. He knew it was noble,
based on some phrase, forgotten, from the Bible,
but he felt bodiless, like a man stumbling from
the pages of a novel, not a forest,
written a hundred years ago. He stroked his uniform,
clogged with the hooked burrs that had tried
to pull him, like the other drowning hands whom
his panic abandoned. The others had died,
like real men, by death. I, Koenig, am a ghost,
ghost-king of rivers. Well, even ghosts must rest.
If he knew he was lost he was not lost.
It was when you pretended that you were a fool.
He banked and leaned tiredly on the pole.
If I'm a character called Koenig, then I
shall dominate my future like a fiction
in which there is a real river and real sky,
so I'm not really tired, and should push on.
The lights between the leaves were beautiful,
and, as in that far life, now he was grateful
for any pool of light between the dull, usual
clouds of life: a sunspot haloed his tonsure;
silver and copper coins danced on the river;
his head felt warm - the light danced on his skull
like a benediction. Koenig closed his eyes,
and he felt blessed. It made direction sure.
He leant on the pole. He must push on some more.
He said his name. His voice sounded German,
then he said 'river', but what was German
if he alone could hear it? Ich spreche Deutsch
sounded as genuine as his name in English,
Koenig in Deutsch, and, in English, King.
Did the river want to be called anything?
He asked the river. The river said nothing.
Around the bend the river poured its silver
like some remorseful mine, giving and giving
everything green and white: white sky, white
water, and the dull green like a drumbeat
of the slow-sliding forest, the green heat;
then, on some sandbar, a mirage ahead:
fabric of muslin sails, spiderweb rigging,
a schooner, foundered on black river mud,
was rising slowly up from the riverbed,
and a top-hatted native reading an inverted
newspaper.
'Where's our Queen?' Koenig shouted.
'Where's our Kaiser?'
The nigger disappeared.
Koenig felt that he himself was being read
like the newspaper or a hundred-year-old novel.
'The Queen dead! Kaiser dead!' the voices shouted.
And it flashed through him those trunks were not wood
but that the ghosts of slaughtered Indians stood
there in the mangrroves, their eyes like fireflies
in the green dark, and that like hummingbirds
they sailed rather than ran between the trees.
The river carried him past his shouted words.
The schooner had gone down without a trace.
'There was a time when we ruled everything,'
Koenig sang to his corrugated white reflection.
'The German Eagle and the British Lion,
we ruled worlds wider than this river flows,
worlds with dyed elephants, with tassled howdahs,
tigers that carried the striped shade when they rose
from their palm coverts; men shall not see these days
again; our flags sank with the sunset on the dhows
of Egypt; we ruled rivers as huge as the Nile,
the Ganges, and the Congo, we tamed, we ruled
you when our empires reached their blazing peak.'
This was a small creek somewhere in the world,
never mind where - victory was in sight.
Koenig laughed and spat in the brown creek.
The mosquitoes now were singing to the night
that rose up from the river, the fog uncurled
under the mangroves. Koenig clenched each fist
around his barge-pole scepter, as a mist
rises from the river and the page goes white.
Remember the folks who first came to our shores,
Fleeing from floods, famine, starvation and wars.
Remember they cleared the forests, pushed back the sea.
They braved the storms and swamps, and built the place that is home to me.
Lady River, your beauty shone and lived on.
Though you might haunt, yet neither tease nor taunt.
How they came - just the same,
Not minding the rugged hills, and nature untame.
Lady River, you`ve launched a thousand ships from distant shores,
Like the Grecian beauty the ancients loved, and the modern man adores.
Thousands of junks, bum-boats, lighters nestled around,
And coolies carrying cargo crates abound.
But like unwelcome guests, they were soon gone,
Leaving behind worn-down warehouses that drew a yawn,
Now you`re very clean; even pristine,
As the twinkling skyline of affluence hems you in.
Then urban renewal plunged right in - dazzling your tearless eyes.
Its magic wand changed all - to modernise or harmonise.
Even the Merlion spewing water from its mouth has shifted.
You`ve survived and thrived - your history and tradition lifted.
You`ve  watched time wink - its tricks you understand -
Whatever the fetish, fad or new trend.
Whatever slogan, jargon, or dish delicious -
They`re sometimes serious, often hilarious.
Your weary eyes have seen armies, and statesmen,
Suicides of  forlorn coolies and depressed  steersmen,
Floating bodies of executed spies and war victims,
Choirs and orchestras with their stirring music or hymns.
You have witnessed senseless invasions, occupations and reoccupations;
Mergers and acquisitions, debates and discussions;
The economy`s boom and gloom and recession;
And urban changes with conservation and preservation.
O Lady River, the fleeting years have not dimmed  your complexion.
Twelve tall bridges are still your constant companion.
History and heritage charter your course and give direction.
Footsteps along your banks quietly follow your tradition.
Toward even when the day leans down,
To kiss the upturned face of night,
Out just beyond the loud-voiced town
I know a spot of calm delight.
Like crimson arrows from a quiver
The red rays pierce the water flowing,
While we go dreaming, singing, rowing,
To Leudeman's-on-the-River.
The hills, like some glad mocking-bird,
Send back our laughter and our singing,
While faint--and yet more faint is heard
The steeple bells all sweetly ringing.
Some message did the winds deliver
To each glad heart that August night,
All heard, but all heard not aright;
By Leudeman's-on-the-River.
Night falls as in some foreign clime,
Between the hills that slope and rise.
So dusk the shades at landing time,
We could not see each other's eyes.
We only saw the moonbeams quiver
Far down upon the stream! that night
The new moon gave but little light
By Leudeman's-on-the-River.
How dusky were those paths that led
Up from the river to the hall.
The tall trees branching overhead
Invite the early shades that fall.
In all the glad blithe world, oh, never
Were hearts more free from care than when
We wandered through those walks, we ten,
By Leudeman's-on-the-River.
So soon, so soon, the changes came.
This August day we two alone,
On that same river, not the same,
Dream of a night forever flown.
Strange distances have come to sever
The hearts that gayly beat in pleasure,
Long miles we cannot cross or measure--
From Leudeman's-on-the-River.
We'll pluck two leaves, dear friend, to-day.
The green, the russet! seems it strange
So soon, so soon, the leaves can change!
Ah, me! so runs all night away
This night wind chills me, and I shiver;
The summer time is almost past.
One more good-bye--perhaps the last
To Leudeman's-on-the-River.
FLOW soft RIVER, gently stray,
Still a silent waving tide
O'er thy glitt'ring carpet glide,
While I chaunt my ROUNDELAY,
As I gather from thy bank,
Shelter'd by the poplar dank,
King-cups, deck'd in golden pride,
Harebells sweet, and daisies pied;
While beneath the evening sky,
Soft the western breezes fly.
Gentle RIVER, should'st thou be
Touch'd with mournful sympathy,
When reflection tells my soul,
Winter's icy breath shall quell
Thy sweet bosom's graceful swell,
And thy dimpling course controul;
Should a crystal tear of mine,
Fall upon thy lucid breast,
Oh receive the trembling guest,
For 'tis PITY'S drop divine!
GENTLE ZEPHYR, softly play,
Shake thy dewy wings around,
Sprinkle odours o'er the ground,
While I chaunt my ROUNDELAY.
While the woodbine's mingling shade,
Veils my pensive, drooping head;
Fan, oh fan, the busy gale,
That rudely wantons round my cheek,
Where the tear of suff'rance meek,
Glitters on the LILY pale:
Ah! no more the damask ROSE,
There in crimson lustre glows;
Thirsty fevers from my lip
Dare the ruddy drops to sip;
Deep within my burning heart,
Sorrow plants an icy dart;
From whose point the soft tears flow,
Melting in the vivid glow;
Gentle Zephyr, should'st thou be
Touch'd with tender sympathy;
When reflection calls to mind,
The bleak and desolating wind,
That soon thy silken wing shall tear,
And waft it on the freezing air;
Zephyr, should a tender sigh
To thy balmy bosom fly,
Oh! receive the flutt'ring thing,
Place it on thy filmy wing,
Bear it to its native sky,
For 'tis PITY'S softest sigh.
O'er the golden lids of day
Steals a veil of sober grey;
Now the flow'rets sink to rest,
On the moist earth's glitt'ring breast;
Homeward now I'll bend my way,
AND CHAUNT MY PLAINTIVE ROUNDELAY.
Smooth it glides upon its travel,
Here a wimple, there a gleam--
O the clean gravel!
O the smooth stream!
Sailing blossoms, silver fishes,
Pave pools as clear as air--
How a child wishes
To live down there!
We can see our colored faces
Floating on the shaken pool
Down in cool places,
Dim and very cool;
Till a wind or water wrinkle,
Dipping marten, plumping trout,
Spreads in a twinkle
And blots all out.
See the rings pursue each other;
All below grows black as night,
Just as if mother
Had blown out the light!
Patience, children, just a minute--
See the spreading circles die;
The stream and all in it
Will clear by-and-by.
I have to go back
to long ago
back accross
misty rivers memories
of so
Past lives to dawn
on me so the way
to live from the
blood
All do know cowling towns
folk shall see into there
souls
With a whisper a sound
misty rooms sweet scent
maidend gown
From he no protection
could so be found
very survive
Yon lore of past cought
up in the mythes
none may so pass
For me to live some
had to die thats why its
Called
The River Of Blood
My River runs to thee—
Blue Sea! Wilt welcome me?
My River wait reply—
Oh Sea—look graciously—
I'll fetch thee Brooks
From spotted nooks—
Say—Sea—Take Me!
Oh Jordan River Lord Say Lay My Burdens On Thee
Oh Jordan River down yonder where the
Black sea sings,
Oh Jordan River, cry loud with me
Oh Jordan River the blood in my hand
Oh Jordan River, the black sea sings
Oh Jordan River, lord come for me
Oh Jordan River lord say I be free
Oh Jordan River, lord protect me
Negroes at the river wanna be free
Oh Jordan river put chains on me
Oh Jordan river take my baby from me
Oh Jordan river lord waits for me
Going to break the chains
Down yonder by the black sea
Oh Jordan river I sing to thee
Oh Jordan River the master say
Nigger’s got to serve them
But lord say I free
Oh Jordan River, I'm bound to lord savior,
walking in the black river,
Oh Jordan River saves me.
I‘sa a free mind train
I set me free
Oh Jordan River
Lord say I Free
Ten miles down Reedy River
A pool of water lies,
And all the year it mirrors
The changes in the skies,
And in that pool's broad bosom
Is room for all the stars;
Its bed of sand has drifted
O'er countless rocky bars.
Around the lower edges
There waves a bed of reeds,
Where water rats are hidden
And where the wild duck breeds;
And grassy slopes rise gently
To ridges long and low,
Where groves of wattle flourish
And native bluebells grow.
Beneath the granite ridges
The eye may just discern
Where Rocky Creek emerges
From deep green banks of fern;
And standing tall between them,
The grassy she-oaks cool
The hard, blue-tinted waters
Before they reach the pool.
Ten miles down Reedy River
One Sunday afternoon,
I rode with Mary Campbell
To that broad, bright lagoon;
We left our horses grazing
Till shadows climbed the peak,
And strolled beneath the she-oaks
On the banks of Rocky Creek.
Then home along the river
That night we rode a race,
And the moonlight lent a glory
To Mary Campbell's face;
And I pleaded for our future
All through that moonlight ride,
Until our weary horses
Drew closer side by side.
Ten miles from Ryan's Crossing
And five miles below the peak,
I built a little homestead
On the banks of Rocky Creek;
I cleared the land and fenced it
And ploughed the rich, red loam,
And my first crop was golden
When I brought my Mary home.
Now still down Reedy River
The grassy she-oaks sigh,
And the water-holes still mirror
The pictures in the sky;
And over all for ever
Go sun and moon and stars,
While the golden sand is drifting
Across the rocky bars
But of the hut I builded
There are no traces now.
And many rains have levelled
The furrows of the plough;
And my bright days are olden,
For the twisted branches wave
And the wattle blossoms golden
On the hill by Mary's grave.
Under the light of the silver moon
We two sat, when our hearts were young;
The night was warm with the breath of June,
And loud from the meadow the cricket sung,
And darker and deeper, oh, love, than the sea,
Were your dear eyes, as they beamed to me.
The moon hung clear, and the night was still:
The waters reflected the glittering skies;
The nightingale sang on the distant hill;
But sweeter than all was the light in your eyes -
Your dear, dark eyes,  your eyes like the sea -
And up from the depths shone love for me.
My heart, like a river, was mad and wild -
And a river is not deep, like the sea;
But I said yout love was the love of a child,
Compared with the love that was felt by me;
A river leaps noisily, kissing the land,
But the sea is fathomless, deep and grand.
I vowed to love you, for ever and ever!
I called you cold, on that night in June,
But my fierce love, like a reckless river,
Dashed on, and away, and was spent too soon;
While yours - ah, yours was deep like the sea;
I cheated you, love, but you died for me!
I’LL be an otter, and I’ll let you swim
A mate beside me; we will venture down
A deep, dark river, when the sky above
Is shut of the sun; spoilers are we,
Thick-coated; no dog’s tooth can bite at our veins
With eyes and ears of poachers; deep-earthed ones
Turned hunters; let him slip past
The little vole; my teeth are on an edge
For the King-fish of the River!
I hold him up
The glittering salmon that smells of the sea;
I hold him high and whistle!
Now we go
Back to our earths; we will tear and eat
Sea-smelling salmon; you will tell the cubs
I am the Booty-bringer, I am the Lord
Of the River; the deep, dark, full and flowing River.
The more we live, more brief appear
Our life's succeeding stages;
A day to childhood seems a year,
And years like passing ages.
The gladsome current of our youth,
Ere passion yet disorders,
Steals lingering like a river smooth
Along its grassy borders.
But as the careworn cheek grows wan,
And sorrow's shafts fly thicker,
Ye stars, that measure life to man,
Why seem your courses quicker?
When joys have lost their bloom and breath,
And life itself is vapid,
Why, as we reach the Falls of Death
Feel we its tide more rapid?
It may be strange—yet who would change
Time's course to slower speeding,
When one by one our friends have gone,
And left our bosoms bleeding?
Heaven gives our years of fading strength
Indemnifying fleetness;
And those of youth, a seeming length,
Proportion'd to their sweetness.
Arrows! Against these chain mail
is effective to repel the sharpness
of their flighted points.
Even hardened bullets, blunt in their intent,
against them an armoured vest
I may procure
to protect my soft heart’s flesh.
And slanders of my character,
thrown with spiteful vigour
across a heated, hot debate.
Well the courts may give a cool defence
to protect me from their hate.
But what defence have I against your love?
I steal myself from you with,
self conceit or hate or
even despising of your gentle care
which you often give and only for
care itself; its sake, not for any else.
I try to block you out of mind
without a thought of any kind
and with no kindness in my mind.
But straight to my heart you fly
circumventing all my barriers in mind
which are without effect,
my intellect you do most easily,
go round..
Love! Why do I fear you so?
Because I know that without
your sweet presence
my soul will by nothing but a dryness
as a river bed without the rain
by which it is filled and fed.
And even when I become as ice
you send the gentle snow
to blanket me with purity
because that is all you ever see;
or saw; in me.
No matter what I hold in my armoury
I have no defence against your Love
In your arms I live and without you
I surely am just the living; dead.
Empty like a dried up river bed,
waiting for your rain to bring life
and set me free to flow
with your Love, full and fulfilling me.
The river below us:
nitrogen, phosphorous, petrochemicals,
dioxin from the paper mills,
a rich buffet of metals digested
from the mines, and still we remain
oblivious to its symptoms
until a skull-and-crossbones sign warns
of the poisons that run the course
of its slim body, writhing like a patient
on a gurney, admitted for treatment;
warns too, of its offspring
in the waiting room: soft-shell crabs, oysters,
the striped bass, the silk fillet,
and the trout we want to bring home
to the sizzle of butter and garlic
and the fresh herbs in the kitchen.
And suddenly we are left alone
to recover mere memory:  the river
we had swung across on ropes
in the dungarees of childhood,
splashing in its shallow gut; the river
over which we fought and killed—
and for which we even died—
the river we damned.
What do you mean by river?
Is it only mere water?
Is it flood water or dry river?
River, I know, my life my notion
The lifelines of my civilization.
River goes on long journey towards the sea
I go on long journey through this body towards my Master, Almighty.
My life is the purest life, see, watch, observe
My life is unique, highly developed
Fresh air fresh mind fresh water fresh thought
I am in need to flow smoothly to my Master, Almighty.
Rainy and summer all experienced by the river
O my dear, I experienced my sadness and happiness
And care not and I flow with the time
To receive His grace here.
Eighty four lakhs of Yonis or births I have crossed
And reached so far at this human life's entrance gate
Of my Master and I have listened  what He told me
At the outer of my life come on come on I am here I am here
Telling me river at the ocean's outer and in the deep
Deep ocean you may say milk-ocean You are my Master, my dear
Come on come on You are telling me and I am
Flowing with pleasure with the time-river.
Let the crows go by hawking their caw and caw.
They have been swimming in midnights of coal mines somewhere.
Let 'em hawk their caw and caw.
Let the woodpecker drum and drum on a hickory stump.
He has been swimming in red and blue pools somewhere hundreds of years
And the blue has gone to his wings and the red has gone to his head.
Let his red head drum and drum.
Let the dark pools hold the birds in a looking-glass.
And if the pool wishes, let it shiver to the blur of many wings, old swimmers from old places.
Let the redwing streak a line of vermillion on the green wood lines.
And the mist along the river fix its purple in lines of a woman's shawl on lazy shoulders.
MUSKOKA
A stream of tender gladness,
Of filmy sun, and opal tinted skies;
Of warm midsummer air that lightly lies
In mystic rings,
Where softly swings
The music of a thousand wings
That almost tones to sadness.
Midway 'twixt earth and heaven,
A bubble in the pearly air, I seem
To float upon the sapphire floor, a dream
Of clouds of snow,
Above, below,
Drift with my drifting, dim and slow,
As twilight drifts to even.
The little fern-leaf, bending
Upon the brink, its green reflection greets,
And kisses soft the shadow that it meets
With touch so fine,
The border line
The keenest vision can't define;
So perfect is the blending.
The far, fir trees that cover
The brownish hills with needles green and gold,
The arching elms o'erhead, vinegrown and old,
Repictured are
Beneath me far,
Where not a ripple moves to mar
Shades underneath, or over.
Mine is the undertone;
The beauty, strength, and power of the land
Will never stir or bend at my command;
But all the shade
Is marred or made,
If I but dip my paddle blade;
And it is mine alone.
O! pathless world of seeming!
O! pathless life of mine whose deep ideal
Is more my own than ever was the real.
For others Fame
And Love's red flame,
And yellow gold: I only claim
The shadows and the dreaming.
This winter dusk, the wild goose's cry
disappears into the stone cliff:
stillness.
Where first by Eden Tree
The Four Great Rivers ran,
To each was appointed a Man
Her Prince and Ruler to be.
But after this was ordained
(The ancient legends' tell),
There came dark Israel,
For whom no River remained.
Then He Whom the Rivers obey
Said to him: "Fling on the ground
A handful of yellow clay,
And a Fifth Great River shall run,
Mightier than these Four,
In secret the Earth around;
And Her secret evermore,
Shall be shown to thee and thy Race."
So it was said and done.
And, deep in the veins of Earth,
And, fed by a thousand springs
That comfort the market-place,
Or sap the power of King,
The Fifth Great River had birth,
Even as it was foretold--
The Secret River of Gold!
And Israel laid down
His sceptre and his crown,
To brood on that River bank
Where the waters flashed and sank
And burrowed in earth and fell
And bided a season below,
For reason that none might know,
Save only Israel
He is Lord of the Last--
The Fifth, most wonderful, Flood.
He hears Her thunder past
And Her Song is in his blood.
He can foresay: "She will fall,"
For he knows which fountain dries
Behind which desert-belt
A thousand leagues to the South.
He can foresay: "She will rise."
He knows what far snows melt
Along what mountain-wall
A thousand leagues to the North,
He snuffs the coming drouth
As he snuffs the coming rain,
He knows what each will bring forth,
And turns it to his gain.
A Ruler without a Throne,
A Prince without a Sword,
Israel follows his quest.
In every land a guest,
Of many lands a lord,
In no land King is he.
But the Fifth Great River keeps
The secret of Her deeps
For Israel alone,
As it was ordered to be.
Dear native Brook! wild Streamlet of the West!
How many various-fated years have past,
What happy and what mournful hours, since last
I skimm'd the smooth thin stone along thy breast,
Numbering its light leaps! yet so deep imprest
Sink the sweet scenes of childhood, that mine eyes
I never shut amid the sunny ray,
But straight with all their tints thy waters rise,
Thy crossing plank, thy marge with willows grey,
And bedded sand that vein'd with various dyes
Gleam'd through thy bright transparence! On my way,
Visions of Childhood! oft have ye beguil'd
Lone manhood's cares, yet waking fondest sighs:
Ah! that once more I were a careless Child!
MY love o'er the water bends dreaming;
It glideth and glideth away:
She sees there her own beauty, gleaming
Through shadow and ripple and spray.
O tell her, thou murmuring river,
As past her your light wavelets roll,
How steadfast that image for ever
Shines pure in pure depths of my soul.
The gulls are mad-in-love with the river,
And the river unveils her face and smiles.
In her sleep-brooding eyes they mirror their shining wings.
She lies on silver pillows: the sun leans over her.
He warms and warms her, he kisses and kisses her.
There are sparks in her hair and she stirs in laughter.
Be careful, my beautiful waking one!  You will catch
on fire.
Wheeling and flying with the foam of the sea on their
breasts,
The ineffable mists of the sea clinging to their wild wings,
Crying the rapture of the boundless ocean,
The gulls are mad-in-love with the river.
Wake! we are the dream thoughts flying form your heart.
Wake!  we are the songs of desire flowing from your
bosom.
O, I think the sun will lend her his great wings
And the river will fly to the sea with the mad-in-
love birds.
We sink into the dust,
Baba and me,
Beneath brush of prickly leaves;
Ivy strangling trees--singing
Our last rites of locura.
Homeboys. Worshipping God-fumes
Out of spray cans.
Our backs press up against
A corrugated steel fence
Along the dried banks
Of a concrete river.
Spray-painted outpourings
On walls offer a chaos
Of color for the eyes.
Home for now. Hidden in weeds.
Furnished with stained mattresses
And plastic milk crates.
Wood planks thrust into
thick branches
serve as roof.
The door is a torn cloth curtain
(knock before entering).
Home for now, sandwiched
In between the maddening days.
We aim spray into paper bags.
Suckle them. Take deep breaths.
An echo of steel-sounds grates the sky.
Home for now. Along an urban-spawned
Stream of muck, we gargle in
The technicolor synthesized madness.
This river, this concrete river,
Becomes a steaming, bubbling
Snake of water, pouring over
Nightmares of wakefulness;
Pouring out a rush of birds;
A flow of clear liquid
On a cloudless day.
Not like the black oil stains we lie in,
Not like the factory air engulfing us;
Not this plastic death in a can.
Sun rays dance on the surface.
Gray fish fidget below the sheen.
And us looking like Huckleberry Finns/
Tom Sawyers, with stick fishing poles,
As dew drips off low branches
As if it were earth's breast milk.
Oh, we should be novas of our born days.
We should be scraping wet dirt
with callused toes.
We should be flowering petals
playing ball.
Soon water/fish/dew wane into
A pulsating whiteness.
I enter a tunnel of circles,
Swimming to a glare of lights.
Family and friends beckon me.
I want to be there,
In perpetual dreaming;
In the din of exquisite screams.
I want to know this mother-comfort
Surging through me.
I am a sliver of blazing ember
entering a womb of brightness.
I am a hovering spectre shedding
scarred flesh.
I am a clown sneaking out of a painted
mouth in the sky.
I am your son, amá, seeking
the security of shadows,
fleeing weary eyes
bursting brown behind
a sewing machine.
I am your brother, the one you
threw off rooftops, tore into
with rage--the one you visited,
a rag of a boy, lying
in a hospital bed, ruptured.
I am friend of books, prey of cops,
lover of the barrio women
selling hamburgers and tacos
at the P&G Burger Stand.
I welcome this heavy shroud.
I want to be buried in it--
To be sculptured marble
In craftier hands.
Soon an electrified hum sinks teeth
Into brain--then claws
Surround me, pull at me,
Back to the dust, to the concrete river.
Let me go!--to stay entangled
In this mesh of barbed serenity!
But over me is a face,
Mouth breathing back life.
I feel the gush of air,
The pebbles and debris beneath me.
"Give me the bag, man," I slur.
"No way! You died, man," Baba said.
"You stopped breathing and died."
"I have to go back!...you don't
understand..."
I try to get up, to reach the sky.
Oh, for the lights--for this whore
of a Sun,
To blind me. To entice me to burn.
Come back! Let me swing in delight
To the haunting knell,
To pierce colors of virgin skies.
Not here, along a concrete river,
But there--licked by tongues of flame!
The broad river flows fierce than an ocean.
In front of the longest bridge
Both of us at the two ends and the sign board says
Not allowed for pedestrians and only for heavy vehicles.
Our fruition is fruitless and how long we have to stand like this?
Forget the racism my sweetheart
Who made us with the same clay?
We break this primitive fundamental bridge,
Jump to the river and swim upstream.
The current of time's river
Will carry off all human deeds
And sink into oblivion
All peoples, kingdoms and their kings.
And if there's something that remains
Through sounds of horn and lyre,
It too will disappear into the maw of time
And not avoid the common fate.
'Twas in the year of 1887, and on the 28th of September,
Which many people of Honan, in China, will long remember;
Especially those that survived the mighty deluge,
That fled to the mountains, and tops of trees, for refuge.
The river burst its embankments suddenly at dead of night,
And the rushing torrent swept all before it left and right;
All over the province of Honan, which for its fertility,
Is commonly called by historians, the garden of China.
The river was at its fullest when the embankment gave way,
And when the people heard it, oh! horror and dismay;
'Twas then fathers and mothers leaped from their beds without delay,
And some saved themselves from being drowned, but thousands were swept away.
Oh! it was a horrible and most pitiful scene,
To hear fathers and mothers and their children loudly scream;
As the merciless water encircled they bodies around,
While the water spirits laughed to see them drowned.
Oh! heaven, it must have been an appalling sight,
To witness in the dead stillness of the night
Frantic fathers and mothers, struggling hard against the roaring flood,
To save themselves and little ones, their own. flesh and blood.
The watchmen tried to patch the breach, but it was all in vain,
Because the banks were sodden with the long prolonged rain;
And driven along by a high wind, which brought the last strain,
Which caused the water with resistless fury to spread o'er the plain.
And the torrent poured into the valley of the La Chia river,
Sweeping thousands of the people before it ere a helping hand could them deliver;
Oh! it was horrible to hear the crashing of houses fallen on every side,
As the flood of rushing waters spread far and wide.
The Chinese offer sacrifices to the water spirits twice a year,
And whether the water spirits or God felt angry I will not aver;
But perhaps God has considered such sacrifices a sin,
And has drowned so many thousands of them for not worshipping Him.
How wonderful are the works of God,
At times among His people abroad;
Therefore, let us be careful of what we do or say,
For fear God doth suddenly take our lives away.
The province of Honan is about half the size of Scotland,
Dotted over with about 3000 villages, most grand;
And inhabited by millions of people of every degree,
And these villages, and people were transformed into a raging sea.
The deluge swept on over the fertile and well-cultivated land,
And the rushing of the mighty torrent no power could withstand;
And the appalling torrent was about twenty feet deep,
And with resistless fury everything before it it did sweep.
Methinks I see the waste of surging waters, and hear its deafening roar,
And on its surface I see corpses of men and women by the score;
And the merciless torrent in the darkness of the night,
Sportively tossing them about, oh! what a horrible sight.
Besides there were buffaloes and oxen, timber, straw, and grain,
Also three thousand villages were buried beneath the waters of the plain;
And multitudes beneath their own roofs have found a watery grave,
While struggling hard, no doubt, poor souls their lives to save.
Therefore good people at home or abroad,
Be advised by me and trust more in God,
Than the people of Honan, the benighted Chinese,
For fear God punished you likewise for your iniquities.
I know a green grass path that leaves the field,
And like a running river, winds along
Into a leafy wood where is no throng
Of birds at noon-day, and no soft throats yield
Their music to the moon. The place is sealed,
An unclaimed sovereignty of voiceless song,
And all the unravished silences belong
To some sweet singer lost or unrevealed.
So is my soul become a silent place.
Oh, may I wake from this uneasy night
To find a voice of music manifold.
Let it be shape of sorrow with wan face,
Or Love that swoons on sleep, or else delight
That is as wide-eyed as a marigold.
There was movement at the station, for the word had passed around
That the colt from old Regret had got away,
And had joined the wild bush horses - he was worth a thousand pound,
So all the cracks had gathered to the fray.
All the tried and noted riders from the stations near and far
Had mustered at the homestead overnight,
For the bushmen love hard riding where the wild bush horses are,
And the stock-horse snuffs the battle with delight.
There was Harrison, who made his pile when Pardon won the cup,
The old man with his hair as white as snow;
But few could ride beside him when his blood was fairly up-
He would go wherever horse and man could go.
And Clancy of the Overflow came down to lend a hand,
No better horseman ever held the reins;
For never horse could throw him while the saddle girths would stand,
He learnt to ride while droving on the plains.
And one was there, a stripling on a small and weedy beast,
He was something like a racehorse undersized,
With a touch of Timor pony - three parts thoroughbred at least -
And such as are by mountain horsemen prized.
He was hard and tough and wiry - just the sort that won't say die -
There was courage in his quick impatient tread;
And he bore the badge of gameness in his bright and fiery eye,
And the proud and lofty carriage of his head.
But so slight and weedy, one would doubt his power to stay,
And the old man said, "That horse will never do
For a long and tiring gallop-lad, you'd better stop away,
Those hills are far too rough for such as you."
So he waited sad and wistful - only Clancy stood his friend -
"I think we ought to let him come," he said;
"I warrant he'll be with us when he's wanted at the end,
For both his horse and he are mountain bred."
"He hails from Snowy River, up by Kosciusko's side,
Where the hills are twice as steep and twice as rough,
Where a horse's hoofs strike firelight from the flint stones every stride,
The man that holds his own is good enough.
And the Snowy River riders on the mountains make their home,
Where the river runs those giant hills between;
I have seen full many horsemen since I first commenced to roam,
But nowhere yet such horsemen have I seen."
So he went - they found the horses by the big mimosa clump -
They raced away towards the mountain's brow,
And the old man gave his orders, "Boys, go at them from the jump,
No use to try for fancy riding now.
And, Clancy, you must wheel them, try and wheel them to the right.
Ride boldly, lad, and never fear the spills,
For never yet was rider that could keep the mob in sight,
If once they gain the shelter of those hills."
So Clancy rode to wheel them - he was racing on the wing
Where the best and boldest riders take their place,
And he raced his stockhorse past them, and he made the ranges ring
With stockwhip, as he met them face to face.
Then they halted for a moment, while he swung the dreaded lash,
But they saw their well-loved mountain full in view,
And they charged beneath the stockwhip with a sharp and sudden dash,
And off into the mountain scrub they flew.
Then fast the horsemen followed, where the gorges deep and black
Resounded to the thunder of their tread,
And the stockwhips woke the echoes, and they fiercely answered back
From cliffs and crags that beetled overhead.
And upward, ever upward, the wild horses held their sway,
Were mountain ash and kurrajong grew wide;
And the old man muttered fiercely, "We may bid the mob good day,
No man can hold them down the other side."
When they reached the mountain's summit, even Clancy took a pull,
It well might make the boldest hold their breath,
The wild hop scrub grew thickly, and the hidden ground was full
Of wombat holes, and any slip was death.
But the man from Snowy River let the pony have his head,
And he swung his stockwhip round and gave a cheer,
And he raced him down the mountain like a torrent down its bed,
While the others stood and watched in very fear.
He sent the flint stones flying, but the pony kept his feet,
He cleared the fallen timbers in his stride,
And the man from Snowy River never shifted in his seat -
It was grand to see that mountain horseman ride.
Through the stringybarks and saplings, on the rough and broken ground,
Down the hillside at a racing pace he went;
And he never drew the bridle till he landed safe and sound,
At the bottom of that terrible descent.
He was right among the horses as they climbed the further hill
And the watchers on the mountain standing mute,
Saw him ply the stockwhip fiercely, he was right among them still,
As he raced across the clearing in pursuit.
Then they lost him for a moment, where two mountain gullies met
In the ranges, but a final glimpse reveals
On a dim and distant hillside the wild horses racing yet,
With the man from Snowy River at their heels.
And he ran them single-handed till their sides were white with foam.
He followed like a bloodhound in their track,
Till they halted cowed and beaten, then he turned their heads for home,
And alone and unassisted brought them back.
But his hardy mountain pony he could scarcely raise a trot,
He was blood from hip to shoulder from the spur;
But his pluck was still undaunted, and his courage fiery hot,
For never yet was mountain horse a cur.
And down by Kosciusko, where the pine-clad ridges raise
Their torn and rugged battlements on high,
Where the air is clear as crystal, and the white stars fairly blaze
At midnight in the cold and frosty sky,
And where around The Overflow the reed beds sweep and sway
To the breezes, and the rolling plains are wide,
The man from Snowy River is a household word today,
And the stockmen tell the story of his ride.
and the gulf enters the sea and so forth,
none of them emptying anything,
all of them carrying yesterday
forever on their white tipped backs,
all of them dragging forward tomorrow.
it is the great circulation
of the earth's body, like the blood
of the gods, this river in which the past
is always flowing. every water
is the same water coming round.
everyday someone is standing on the edge
of this river, staring into time,
whispering mistakenly:
only here. only now.
There is a river we all must cross,
Thousands will pass it tomorrow;
Some will go down to its waters with joy,
Others with anguish and sorrow.
Some will be welcom'd by angel bands,
Coming from over the river;
Others be borne by the current adown,
Where there is none to deliver.
These shall land safely in Eden's bow'rs,
Wearing the white robes of pardon;
Those shall be cast on a desolate shore,
Far from the gates of the garden.
These shall have voices to join the song
Ever from Eden ascending;
Those shall unite in the wailings of woe
Woe, that hath never an ending.
Over the river we all must cross,
Jesus may call us tomorrow;
Shall we go down to its waters with joy?
Shall we with anguish and sorrow?
And they shook their sweetness out in their sleep
On the brink of that beautiful stream,
But it wandered along with a wearisome song
Like a lover that walks in a dream:
So the roses blew
When the winds went through,
In the moonlight so white and still;
But the river it beat
All night at the feet
Of a cold and flinty hill -
Of a hard and senseless hill!
I said, "We have often showered our loves
Upon something as dry as the dust;
And the faith that is crost, and the hearts that are lost -
Oh! how can we wittingly trust?
Like the stream which flows,
And wails as it goes.
Through the moonlight so white and still,
To beat and to beat
All night at the feet
Of a cold and flinty hill -
Of a hard and senseless hill?
"River, I stay where the sweet roses blow,
And drink of their pleasant perfumes!
Oh, why do you moan, in this wide world alone,
When so much affection here blooms?
The winds wax faint,
And the moon like a saint
Glides over the woodlands so white and still!
But you beat and you beat
All night at the feet
Of that cold and flinty hill -
Of that hard and senseless hill!"
Then run along the riverside
upon a time a French King's pride
viewed vast breadth and gentle ripples;
glitter, glisten, glow and twinkle.
Inhale the bird infested air
of clearer blue and high up there
free to soar the highest heights
a brighter day as one takes flight.
The heron builds a mighty nest
and seagulls plague us overhead!
Wild yellow iris fill the banks,
in spring, the Lord is given thanks.
As river flows around the bend
perfection reflected; sunlight sends
and man created paint and brush
to capture the views colorful, lush.
Painted river boats and barges,
sailing craft of varied sizes
and floating buss' run on time;
canoe or pleasure where we may dine.
So run, run by the riverside
upon a time a French King's pride.
Cycle paths and dogs who linger.
Glisten, glitter, row the river.
For Egal Bohen.
October 2005
France
Her gown was simple woven wool,
But, in repayment,
Her body sweet made beautiful
The simplest raiment:
For all its fine, melodious curves
With life a-quiver
Were graceful as the bends and swerves
Of her own river.
Her round arms, from the shoulders down
To sweet hands slender,
The sun had kissed them amber-brown
With kisses tender.
For though she loved the secret shades
Where ferns grow stilly,
And wild vines droop their glossy braids,
And gleams the lily,
And Nature, with soft eyes that glow
In gloom that glistens,
Unto her own heart, beating slow,
In silence listens:
She loved no less the meadows fair,
And green, and spacious;
The river, and the azure air,
And sunlight gracious.
I saw her first when tender, wan,
Green light enframed her;
And, in my heart, the Flower of Dawn
I softly named her.
The bright sun, like a king in state,
With banners streaming,
Rode through the fair auroral gate
In mail gold-gleaming.
The witch-eyed stars before him paled—
So high his scorning!—
And round the hills the rose-clouds sailed,
And it was morning.
The light mimosas bended low
To do her honour,
As in that rosy morning glow
I gazed upon her.
My boat swung bowward to the stream
Where tall reeds shiver;
We floated onward, in a dream,
Far down the River.
The River that full oft has told
To Ocean hoary
A many-coloured, sweet, and old
Unending story:
The story of the tall, young trees,
For ever sighing
To sail some day the rolling seas
’Neath banners flying.
The Ocean hears, and through his caves
Roars gusty laughter;
And takes the River, with his waves
To roll thereafter.
But Love deep waters cannot drown;
To its old fountains
The stream returns in clouds that crown
Its parent mountains.
The River was to her so dear
She seemed its daughter;
Her deep translucent eyes were clear
As sunlit water;
And in her bright veins seemed to run,
Pulsating, glowing,
The music of the wind and sun,
And waters flowing.
The secrets of the trees she knew:
Their growth, their gladness,
And, when their time of death was due,
Their stately sadness.
Gray gums, like old men warped by time,
She knew their story;
And theirs that laughed in pride of prime
And leafy glory;
And theirs that, where clear waters run,
Drooped dreaming, dreaming;
And theirs that shook against the sun
Their green plumes gleaming.
All things of gladness that exist
Did seem to woo her,
And well that woodland satirist,
The lyre-bird, knew her.
And there were hidden mossy dells
That she knew only,
Where Beauty born of silence dwells
Mysterious, lonely.
No sounds of toil their stillness taunt,
No hearth-smoke sullies
The air: the Mountain Muses haunt
Those lone, green gullies.
And there they weave a song of Fate
That never slumbers:
A song some bard shall yet translate
In golden numbers.
A blue haze veiled the hills’ huge shapes
A misty lustre—
Like rime upon the purple grapes,
When ripe they cluster:
’Twas noon, and all the Vale was gold—
An El Dorado:
The damask river seaward rolled,
Through shine and shadow.
And, gazing on its changing glow,
I saw, half-sighing,
The wondrous Fairyland below
Its surface lying.
There all things shone with paler sheen:
More softly shimmered
The fern-fronds, and with softer green
The myrtles glimmered:
And—like that Fisher gazing in
The sea-depths, pining
For days gone by, who saw Julin
Beneath him shining,
With many a wave-washed corridor,
And sea-filled portal,
And plunged below, and nevermore
Was seen of mortal—
So I, long gazing at the gleam
Of fern and flower,
Felt drawn down to that World of Dream
By magic power:
For there, I knew, in silence sat,
With breasts slow-heaving,
Illusion’s Queen Rabesquerat,
Her web a-weaving.
But when the moon shone, large and low,
Against Orion,
Then, as from some pale portico
Might issue Dian,
She came through tall tree-pillars pale,
A silver vision,
A nymph strayed out of Ida’s vale
Or fields Elysian.
White stars shone out with mystic gleams
The woods illuming:
It seemed as if the trees in dreams
Once more were blooming.
And all beneath those starry blooms,
By bends and beaches,
We floated on through glassy glooms,
Down moonlit reaches.
Ah, that was in the glad years when
Joys ne’er were sifted,
But I on wilder floods since then
Have darkly drifted.
Yet, River of Romance, for me
With pictures glowing,
Through dim, green fields of Memory
Thou still art flowing.
And still I hear, thy shores along,
All faintly ringing,
The notes of ghosts of birds that long
Have ceased their singing.
Was she, who then my heart did use
To touch so purely,
A mortal maiden—or a Muse?
I know not, surely.
But still in dreams I see her stand,
A fairer Flora,
Serene, immortal, by the strand
Of clear Narora.
After Li Po
While my hair was still cut straight
across my forehead
I played at the front gate, pulling
flowers.
You came by on bamboo stilts, playing
horse,
You walked about my seat, playing with
blue plums.
And we went on living in the village of
Chokan:
Two small people, without dislike or
suspicion.
At fourteen I married My Lord you.
I never laughed, being bashful.
Lowering my head, I looked at the wall.
Called to, a thousand times, I never
looked back.
At fifteen I stopped scowling,
I desired my dust to be mingled with
yours
Forever and forever and forever.
Why should I climb the lookout?
At sixteen you departed,
You went into far Ku-to-en, by the river
of swirling eddies,
And you have been gone five months.
The monkeys make sorrowful noise
overhead.
You dragged your feet when you went
out,
By the gate now, the moss is grown,
the different mosses,
Too deep to clear them away!
The leaves fall early this autumn, in
wind.
The paired butterflies are already
yellow with August
Over the grass in the West garden;
They hurt me.  I grow older.
If you are coming down through the
narrows of the river Kiang,
Please let me know beforehand,
And I will come out to meet you
As far as Cho-fu-sa.
Translated by Ezra Pound
Anonymous submission.
In a dream I returned to the river of bees
Five orange trees by the bridge and
Beside two mills my house
Into whose courtyard a blind man followed
The goats and stood singing
Of what was older
Soon it will be fifteen years
He was old he will have fallen into his eyes
I took my eyes
A long way to the calenders
Room after room asking how shall I live
One of the ends is made of streets
One man processions carry through it
Empty bottles their
Images of hope
It was offered to me by name
Once once and once
In the same city I was born
Asking what shall I say
He will have fallen into his mouth
Men think they are better than grass
I return to his voice rising like a forkful of hay
He was old he is not real nothing is real
Nor the noise of death drawing water
We are the echo of the future
On the door it says what to do to survive
But we were not born to survive
Only to live
As I stood upon the Dean Bridge and viewed the beautiful scenery,
I felt fascinated and my heart was full of glee,
And I exclaimed in an ecstasy of delight,
In all my travels I never saw such a sight.
The scenery is so enchanting to look upon
That all tourists will say, "Dull care, be gone."
'Tis certainly a most lovely spot,
And once seen it can never be forgot.
Then away! away! to the River of Leith,
That springs from the land of heather and heath,
And view the gorgeous scenery on a fine summer day.
I'm sure it will drive dull care away.
The water-fall near the Bridge is most beautiful to be seen,
As it falls and shines like crystal in the sunsheen;
And the sound can be heard all day long,
While the innocent trouts sing an aquatic song.
The glen is a cool spot in the summer time.
There the people can be shaded from the sunshine
Under the spreading branches of the big trees,
And there's seats there to rest on if they please.
Then near St. Bernard's Well there's a shady bower,
Where the lovers, if they like, can spend an hour;
And while they rest there at their ease
They can make love to each other if they please.
The water of St. Bernard's Well is very nice,
But to get a drink of it one penny is the price.
I think in justice the price is rather high,
To give a penny for a drink when one feels dry.
The braes of the River Leith is most charming to be seen,
With its beautiful trees and shrubberies green,
And as the tourist gazes on the river in the valley below,
His heart with joy feels all aglow.
There the little trouts do sport and play
During the live-long summer day,
While the bee and butterfly is on the wing,
And with the singing of birds the glen doth ring.
The walk underneath the Dean Bridge is lovely to see.
And as ye view the scenery it will fill your heart with glee.
It is good for the people's health to be walking there
As they gaze on the beauties of Nature and inhale pure air.
The Dean Bridge is a very magnificent sight,
Because from the basement it is a great height.
And it seems most attractive to the eye,
And arrests the attention of strangers as they pass by.
The braes of Belgrave Crescent is lovely to see,
With its beautiful walks and green shrubbery.
'Tis health for the people that lives near by there
To walk along the bonny walks and breathe the sweet air.
Therefore all lovers of the picturesque, bo advised by me
And the beautiful scenery of the River Leith go and see,
And I am sure you will get a very great treat,
Because the River of Leith scenery cannot be beat.
The more we live, more brief appear
Our life's succeeding stages;
A day to childhood seems a year,
And years like passing ages.
The gladsome current of our youth,
Ere passion yet disorders,
Steals lingering like a river smooth
Along its grassy borders.
But as the careworn cheek grows wan,
And sorrow's shafts fly thicker,
Ye stars, that measure life to man,
Why seem your courses quicker?
When joys have lost their bloom and breath,
And life itself is vapid,
Why, as we reach the Falls of Death
Feel we its tide more rapid?
It may be strange—yet who would change
Time's course to slower speeding,
When one by one our friends have gone,
And left our bosoms bleeding?
Heaven gives our years of fading strength
Indemnifying fleetness;
And those of youth, a seeming length,
Proportion'd to their sweetness.
There is a great river this side of Stygia
Before one comes to the first black cataracts
And trees that lack the intelligence of trees.
In that river, far this side of Stygia,
The mere flowing of the water is a gayety,
Flashing and flashing in the sun. On its banks,
No shadow walks. The river is fateful,
Like the last one. But there is no ferryman.
He could not bend against its propelling force.
It is not to be seen beneath the appearances
That tell of it. The steeple at Farmington
Stands glistening and Haddam shines and sways.
It is the third commonness with light and air,
A curriculum, a vigor, a local abstraction . . .
Call it, one more, a river, an unnamed flowing,
Space-filled, reflecting the seasons, the folk-lore
Of each of the senses; call it, again and again,
The river that flows nowhere, like a sea.
The river of time keeps on flowing
O'er wishes and dreams gone unknown,
The worst thing is wanting and knowing
Endearments that never were shown;
Tomorrow is better than never
To speak all those words in your heart,
Don't hold them inside you forever -
Perhaps it's a good time to start
By saying 'I love you' more often,
Let everyone know that you care,
You simply can't take it for granted
And hope they're already aware;
Three little words - you can do it!
Don't let them get stuck deep inside,
Just say them out loud, nothing to it -
Speak up!  There's no reason to hide;
That river of time keeps on flowing
The present turns into the past -
Your light should be shared while it's glowing,
So love like today is your last.
The river led me to you though the way was hard and long,
It saw me through adversity and taught me to be strong,
For when the doubts beset me that you would be waiting there,
At the river's end I saw you and it kept me from despair.
For the river kept on flowing and its water made me brave,
When I was weak and fading such encouragement it gave,
Following its winding path around each and every bend,
Until I found you waiting for me at my journey's end.
I saw you in the distance there and I began to run,
My weariness deserted me like life had just begun,
And you stood there so lonely hoping that I would return,
Our loving eyes did meet again with passion that did burn.
For the river kept us company when we were so alone,
And we found such comfort there in every rock and stone,
With waters pure we both did drink that kept us both alive,
And led us to each other through the pain we had to strive.
And when I held you once again it felt like yesterday,
That we two were parted and we both then lost our way,
But in my dreams you lingered for I never could forget,
Every time I heard your name I just got so upset.
For the river was the lifeblood and all that I did need,
To give me the courage and the power to succeed,
And yet although I stumbled and so many times did fall,
Our love did hold the answer for our love did conquer all.
I watch the river flowing down towards the deep blue sea,
At the end of its winding path I know you wait for me,
Like the mountains and the valleys and the sun up in the sky,
My love for you will shine eternally and never die.
For the river is the spirit that puts life into my heart,
And tells me you are with me all the times we are apart,
For its beauty and its splendour, its wonder and its grace,
Will be with me forever on this journey that I face.
Like the colours of the sunrise and the coming of the spring,
I gaze upon this paradise and hear the birds that sing,
So sweetly in the treetops while I know that far away,
My home is where my heart lies where I long to be this day.
For the river keeps on flowing and is acting as my guide,
And leads me ever onward to the place I shall abide,
Hope shall live eternally and never will be gone,
I know that while this river flows I'll always carry on.
I pray that God will steer me through the rocks that lay ahead,
And all the troubled water to a calmer place instead,
Where there is only sunshine and a sky so clear and blue,
I know the path I follow now will lead me back to you.
For the river is the reason why I need you evermore,
It heads towards the place I knew so many years before,
And although things may have changed I won't regret I came,
For you are all I care for and I hope you feel the same.
I am a river flowing from God’s sea
Through devious ways. He mapped my course for me;
I cannot change it; mine alone the toil
To keep the waters free from grime and soil
The winding river ends where it began;
And when my life had compassed its brief span
I must return to that mysterious source.
So let me gather daily on my course
The perfume from the blossoms as I pass,
Balm from the pines, and healing from the grass,
And carry down my current as I go
Not common stones but precious gems to show;
And tears (the holy water from sad eyes)
Back to God’s sea, from which all rivers rise,
Let me convey, not blood from wounded hearts,
Nor poison which the upas-tree imparts.
When over flowery vales I leap with joy,
Let me not devastate them, nor destroy,
But rather leave them fairer to the sight;
Mine be the lot to comfort and delight.
And if down awful chasms I needs must leap,
Let me not murmur at my lot, but sweep
On bravely to the end without one fear,
Knowing that He who planned my ways stands near.
For Love is all, and over all. Amen.
Down through bare fields and by many a hedgerow the streams from the high country flow
Down to join and swell the big river that into a huge water-way grow
On it's long journey to the ocean it babbles along night and day
From it's birth-place in the high valley saltwater seems quite a long way,
It has outlived generations of people the Seasons they come and they go
How old is the very old river the answer anyone does not know
Perhaps it has been flowing forever millions of years before the first human was born
By the hedges and through the old fields forever it has babbled on since time's first morn,
The old poets have sung of the river the river that has not aged in time
Their bones long resting in Earth's bosom and the river will outlive their rhyme
It babbles on downland forever from the high Country to the vast sea
And when people talk of the river they do not talk of mortality,
The human life span it seems such a short span the Seasons they come and they go
But the river born in the high country forever to the ocean flow.
In my first sleep
I came to the river
And looked down
Through the clear water -
Only in dream
Water so pure,
Laced and undulant
Lines of flow
On its rocky bed
Water of life
Streaming for ever.
A house was there
Beside the river
And I, arrived,
An expected guest
About to explore
Old gardens and libraries -
But the car was waiting
To drive me away.
One last look
Into that bright stream -
Trout there were
And clear on the bottom
Monster form
Of the great crayfish
That crawls to the moon.
On its rocky bed
Living water
In whorls and ripples
Flowing unbended.
There was the car
To drive me away.
We crossed the river
Of living water -
I might not stay,
But must return
By the road too short
To the waiting day.
In my second dream
Pure I was and free
By the rapid stream,
My crystal house the sky,
The pure crystalline sky.
Into the stream I flung
A bottle of clear glass
That twirled and tossed and spun
In the water's race
Flashing the morning sun.
Down that swift river
I saw it borne away,
My empty crystal form,
Exultant saw it caught
Into the current's spin,
The flashing water's run.
The river I have under my tongue,
Unimaginable water, my little boat,
And curtains lowered, let's speak.
I came from the sunny valleys
And sought for the open sea,
For I thought in its gray expanses
My peace would come to me.
I came at last to the ocean
And found it wild and black,
And I cried to the windless valleys,
"Be kind and take me back!"
But the thirsty tide ran inland,
And the salt waves drank of me,
And I who was fresh as the rainfall
Am bitter as the sea.
Today I met a woman
Who died four years ago
She spoke to me for hours
As though she knew my soul
She took me by the hand
Led me along a stream
Where trout swam in sparkling waters
Under clear crystalline skies
This woman shared the magic
Of years of circumspect living
And artfully crafted writing
Precisely gem set words
She dwells now in brightness
I could but pause and glimpse
Through my own dark glass
Her poems the only light
In memory of Kathleen Raine
I'M now disposed to give a pretty tale;
Love laughs at what I've sworn and will prevail;
Men, gods, and all, his mighty influence know,
And full obedience to the urchin show.
In future when I celebrate his flame,
Expressions not so warm will be my aim;
I would not willingly abuses plant,
But rather let my writings spirit want.
If in these verses I around should twirl,
Some wily knave and easy simple girl,
'Tis with intention in the breast to place;
On such occasions, dread of dire disgrace;
The mind to open, and the sex to set
Upon their guard 'gainst snares so often met.
Gross ignorance a thousand has misled,
For one that has been hurt by what I've said.
I'VE read that once, an orator renowned
In Greece, where arts superior then were found,
By law's severe decree, compelled to quit
His country, and to banishment submit,
Resolved that he a season would employ,
In visiting the site of ancient Troy.
His comrade, Cymon, with him thither went,
To view those ruins, we so oft lament.
A hamlet had been raised from Ilion's wall,
Ennobled by misfortune and its fall;
Where now mere names are Priam and his court;
Of all devouring Time the prey and sport.
O TROY! for me thy very name has got
Superior charms:--in story fruitful spot;
Thy famed remains I ne'er can hope to view,
That gods by labour raised, and gods o'erthrew;
Those fields where daring acts of valour shone;
So many fights were lost:--so many won.
BUT to resume my thread, and not extend
Too much the subjects which our plan suspend;
This Cymon, who's the hero of our tale,
When walking near the banks that form the dale
Through which Scamander's waters freely flow,
Observed a youthful charmer thither go,
To breathe the cool refreshing breeze around;
That on its verdant borders oft she'd found.
Her veil was floating, and her artless dress,
A shepherdess seemed clearly to express.
Tall, elegantly formed, with beauteous mien,
And ev'ry feature lovely to be seen,
Young Cymon felt emotion and surprise,
And thought 'twas Venus that had caught his eyes,
Who on the river's side her charms displayed,
Those wondrous treasures all perfection made.
A GROT was nigh, to which the simple fair,
Not dreaming ills, was anxious to repair;
The heat, some evil spirit, and the place,
Invited her the moment to embrace,
To bathe within the stream that near her ran;
And instantly her project she began.
THE spark concealed himself; each charm admired;
Now this, now that, now t'other feature fired;
A hundred beauties caught his eager sight;
And while his bosom felt supreme delight,
He turned his thoughts advantages to take,
And of the maiden's error something make;
Assumed the character, and dress; and air;
That should a wat'ry deity declare;
Within the gliding flood his vestments dipt:
A crown of rushes on his head he slipt;
Aquatick herbs and plants around he twined:
Then Mercury intreated to be kind,
And Cupid too, the wily god of hearts;
How could the innocent resist these arts?
AT length a foot so fair the belle exposed,
E'en Galatea never such disclosed;
The stream, that glided by, received the prize;
Her lilies she beheld with downcast eyes,
And, half ashamed, herself surveyed at ease,
While round the zephyrs wantoned in the breeze.
WHEN thus engaged, the lover near her drew;
At whose approach away the damsel flew,
And tried to hide within the rocky cell;
Cried Cymon, I beneath these waters dwell,
And o'er their course a sov'reign right maintain;
Be goddess of the flood, and with me reign;
Few rivers could with you like pow'rs divide;
My crystal's clear: in me you may confide;
My heart is pure; with flow'rs I'll deck the stream,
If worthy of yourself the flood you deem;
Too happy should this honour you bestow,
And with me, 'neath the current, freely go.
Your fair companions, ev'ry one I'll make
A nymph of fountains, hill, or grove, or lake;
My pow'r is great, extending far around
Where'er the eye can reach, 'tis fully found.
THE eloquence he used, her fears and dread;
Lest she might give offence by what she said,
In spite of bashfulness that bliss alloys,
Soon all concluded with celestial joys.
'Tis even said that Cupid lent supplies;
From superstition many things arise.
THE spark withdrew, delighted by success;
Return said he:--we'll mutually caress;
But secret prove: let none our union learn;
Concealment is to me of high concern;
To make it publick would improper be,
Till on Olympus' mount the gods we see,
In council met, to whom I'll state the case;
On this the new-made goddess left the place,
In ev'ry thing contented as a dove,
And fully witnessed by the god of love.
Two months had passed, and not a person knew
Their frequent meetings, pleasure to pursue.
O mortals! is it true, as we are told,
That ev'ry bliss at last is rendered cold?
The sly gallant, though not a word he said,
The grot to visit now was rarely led.
AT length a wedding much attention caught;
The lads and lasses of the hamlet sought,
To see the couple pass: the belle perceived
The very man for whom her bosom heaved,
And loudly cried, behold Scamander's flood!
Which raised surprise; soon numbers round her stood,
Astonishment expressed, but still the fair,
Whate'er was asked, would nothing more declare,
Than, in the spacious, blue, ethereal sky,
Her marriage would be soon, they might rely.
A laugh prevailed; for what was to be done?
The god with hasty steps away had run,
And none with stones pursued his rapid flight:
The deity was quickly ought of sight.
WERE this to happen now, Scamander's stream
Would not so easily preserve esteem;
But crimes like these (whoever was abused),
In former days, were easily excused.
With time our maxims change, and what was then,
Though wrong at present, may prevail agen.
Scamander's spouse some raillery received;
But in the end she fully was relieved:
A lover e'en superior thought her charms,
(His taste was such) and took her to his arms.
The gods can nothing spoil! but should they cause
A belle to lose a portion of applause,
A handsome fortune give, and you'll behold,
That ev'ry thing can be repaired by gold.
The river sings
A voice rises above
Fairer than the water, rings
I know you well
For the river has told
All there is to tell
It sung of a maiden
Fair as the water’s song
Her heart heavy laden
Though she sang
Her song was sorrowed
In voice the sadness rang
No words were needed
The river knew
Her voice it heeded
She walked alone
Her gaiety was lost
River, her only home
She listened to the water
Telling a story
Calling her River Daughter
The river sang, through day and night
Sang for her, the only listener
She joined the song, through dark and light
She called to her lover
Come free me!
Called with song and river
follows the river as it bends
along the valley floor,
going the way it must.
Where water goes, so goes the road,
if there's room (not in a ravine,
gorge), the river
on your right or left. Left is better: when you're driving,
it's over your elbow across
the road.
You see the current, which is
what the river is: the river
in the river, a thing sliding fast forward
inside a thing sliding not so fast forward.
Driving with, beside, the river's flow is good.
Another pleasure, driving against it: it's the same river
someone else will see
somewhere else downstream -- same play,
new theater, different set.
Wide, shallow, fairly fast,
roundy-stone streambed, rocky-land river,
it turns there or here -- the ground
telling it so -- draining dull
mountains to the north,
migrating, feeding a few hard-fleshed fish
who live in it. One small sandbar splits
the river, then it loops left,
the road right, and the river's silver
slips under the trees,
into the forest,
and over the sharp perpendicular
edge of the earth.
The river tumbles onwards to the sea,
And rushes, racing over rocks and stones,
And boulders, branches, pebbles, sand and scree,
Singing so many melodies to me,
In whispering notes and thunderous roaring tones.
Music that lingers in the ears and mind,
Soothing confusing thoughts that come my way,
Easing all stress, so my spirit is resigned,
To watching its water ripple, swirl, glide and wind,
And giving a soft contentment to my day.
Always there, this river, which is never still,
And every night and day, how strong it flows,
Into each pool, each inlet and each new rill,
It does, my thirsty soul, with pleasure fill,
And sets my thoughts on peace, and my 'being' glows.
©   Ernestine Northover
The skies are brass and the plains are bare,
Death and ruin are everywhere --
And all that is left of the last year's flood
Is a sickly stream on the grey-black mud;
The salt-springs bubble and the quagmires quiver,
And -- this is the dirge of the Darling River:
`I rise in the drought from the Queensland rain,
`I fill my branches again and again;
`I hold my billabongs back in vain,
`For my life and my peoples the South Seas drain;
`And the land grows old and the people never
`Will see the worth of the Darling River.
`I drown dry gullies and lave bare hills,
`I turn drought-ruts into rippling rills --
`I form fair island and glades all green
`Till every bend is a sylvan scene.
`I have watered the barren land ten leagues wide!
`But in vain I have tried, ah! in vain I have tried
`To show the sign of the Great All Giver,
`The Word to a people: O! lock your river.
`I want no blistering barge aground,
`But racing steamers the seasons round;
`I want fair homes on my lonely ways,
`A people's love and a people's praise --
`And rosy children to dive and swim --
`And fair girls' feet in my rippling brim;
`And cool, green forests and gardens ever' --
Oh, this is the hymn of the Darling River.
The sky is brass and the scrub-lands glare,
Death and ruin are everywhere;
Thrown high to bleach, or deep in the mud
The bones lie buried by last year's flood,
And the Demons dance from the Never Never
To laugh at the rise of the Darling River.
I
Said the Watcher by the Way
To the young and the unladen,
To the boy and to the maiden,
"God be with you both to-day.
First your song came ringing,
Now you come, you two--
Knowing naught of what you do,
Or of what your dreams are bringing.
"O you children who go singing
To the Town down the River,
Where the millions cringe and shiver,
Tell me what you know to-day;
Tell me how far you are going,
Tell me how you find your way.
O you children who are dreaming,
Tell me what you dream to-day."
"He is old and we have heard him,"
Said the boy then to the maiden;
"He is old and heavy laden
With a load we throw away.
Care may come to find us,
Age may lay us low;
Still, we seek the light we know,
And the dead we leave behind us.
"Did he think that he would blind us
Into such a small believing
As to live without achieving,
When the lights have led so far?
Let him watch or let him wither,--
Shall he tell us where we are?
We know best, who go together,
Downward, onward, and so far."
II
Said the Watcher by the Way
To the fiery folk that hastened
To the loud and the unchastened,
"You are strong, I see, to-day.
Strength and hope may lead you
To the journey's end,--
Each to be the other's friend
If the Town should fail to need you.
"And are ravens there to feed you
In the Town down the River,
Where the gift appalls the giver
And youth hardens day by day?
O you brave and you unshaken,
Are you truly on your way?
And are sirens in the River,
That you come so far to-day?"
"You are old and we have listened,"
Said the voice of one who halted;
"You are sage and self-exalted,
But your way is not our way.
You that cannot aid us
Give us words to eat.
Be assured that they are sweet,
And that we are as God made us.
"Not in vain have you delayed us,
Though the river still be calling
Through the twilight that is falling
And the Town be still so far.
By the whirlwind of your wisdom
Leagues are lifted as leaves are;
But a king without a kingdom
Fails us, who have come so far."
III
Said the Watcher by the Way
To the slower folk who stumbled,
To the weak and the world-humbled,
"Tell me how you fare to-day.
Some with ardor shaken,
All with honor scarred,
Do you falter, finding hard
The far chance that you have taken?
"Or, do you at length awaken
To an antic retribution,
Goading to a new confusion
The drugged hopes of yesterday?
O you poor mad men that hobble,
Will you not return or stay?
Do you trust, you broken people,
To a dawn without the day?"
"You speak well of what you know not,"
Muttered one; and then a second:
"You have begged, and you have beckoned,
But you see us on our way.
Who are you to scold us,
Knowing what we know?
Jeremiah, long ago,
Said as much as you have told us.
"As we are, then, you behold us:
Derelicts of all conditions,
Poets, rogues, and sick physicians,
Plodding forward from afar;
Forward now into the darkness
Where the men before us are;
Forward, onward, out of grayness,
To the light that shone so far."
IV
Said the Watcher by the Way
To some aged ones who lingered,
To the shrunken, the claw-fingered,
"So you come for me to-day."--
"Yes, to give you warning;
You are old," one said;
"You have hairs on your head,
Fit for laurel, not for scorning.
"From the first of early morning
We have toiled along to find you;
We, as others, have maligned you,
But we need your scorn to-day.
By the light that we saw shining,
Let us not be lured alway;
Let us hear no River calling
When to-morrow is to-day."
"But your lanterns are unlighted
And the Town is far before you:
Let us hasten, I implore you,"
Said the Watcher by the Way.
"Long have I waited,
Longer have I known
That the Town would have its own,
And the call be for the fated.
"In the name of all created.
Let us hear no more my brothers;
Are we older than all others?
Are the planets in our way?"--
"Hark," said one; I hear the River,
Calling always, night and day."--
"Forward, then! The lights are shining,"
Said the Watcher by the Way.
Time is not a river
Nor a ticking clock
Nor an hourglass
We cannot save time
We cannot spend time
We cannot borrow time
We cannot buy time
We cannot cheat time
Time is not a gift
Time is not our friend
Nor our enemy
Time is not on our side
Time is not ours in any sense
Save for the single second
That holds our full attention
Then slips forever beyond grasp
I wonder if the river gets tired?
It runs and runs but never stops,
It rushes onward toward the sea,
Foaming, Swirling, round the rocks.
I guess it never actually halts.
So therefore it mustn’t be tired,
Because if it were, it surely would rest,
It only runs past to be admired.
So rivers never do get tired,
Though lazy, sometimes yes,
When rain isn’t doing her part,
Or isn’t giving her best.
But when the rain is feeling well,
And fills the river true
The river rushes, madder still.
To get to the ocean blue.
River! that in silence windest
Through the meadows, bright and free,
Till at length thy rest thou findest
In the bosom of the sea!
Four long years of mingled feeling,
Half in rest, and half in strife,
I have seen thy waters stealing
Onward, like the stream of life.
Thou hast taught me, Silent River!
Many a lesson, deep and long;
Thou hast been a generous giver;
I can give thee but a song.
Oft in sadness and in illness,
I have watched thy current glide,
Till the beauty of its stillness
Overflowed me, like a tide.
And in better hours and brighter,
When I saw thy waters gleam,
I have felt my heart beat lighter,
And leap onward with thy stream.
Not for this alone I love thee,
Nor because thy waves of blue
From celestial seas above thee
Take their own celestial hue.
Where yon shadowy woodlands hide thee,
And thy waters disappear,
Friends I love have dwelt beside thee,
And have made thy margin dear.
More than this;--thy name reminds me
Of three friends, all true and tried;
And that name, like magic, binds me
Closer, closer to thy side.
Friends my soul with joy remembers!
How like quivering flames they start,
When I fan the living embers
On the hearth-stone of my heart!
'T is for this, thou Silent River!
That my spirit leans to thee;
Thou hast been a generous giver,
Take this idle song from me.
Dear native brook! wild streamlet of the West!
How many various-fated years have passed,
What happy and what mournful hours, since last
I skimmed the smooth thin stone along thy breast,
Numbering its light leaps! Yet so deep impressed
Sink the sweet scenes of childhood, that mine eyes
I never shut amid the sunny ray,
But straight with all their tints thy waters rise,
Thy crossing plank, thy marge with willows grey,
And bedded sand that, veined with various dyes,
Gleamed through thy bright transparence! On my way,
Visions of childhood! oft have ye beguiled
Lone manhood's cares, yet waking fondest sighs:
Ah! that once more I were a careless child!
Fair river! in thy bright, clear flow
Of crystal, wandering water,
Thou art an emblem of the glow
Of beauty- the unhidden heart-
The playful maziness of art
In old Alberto's daughter;
But when within thy wave she looks-
Which glistens then, and trembles-
Why, then, the prettiest of brooks
Her worshipper resembles;
For in his heart, as in thy stream,
Her image deeply lies-
His heart which trembles at the beam
Of her soul-searching eyes.
Upon the shaded river bank
Where willows weep on water's edge,
And drape the sympathetic shore
That to my heart shall yield,
Some comfort as I sit and rest
And gaze across the surface calm
A mirror of the August sky
And pray my wounds be healed.
I listen as the birds do sing
Upon the boughs that gently move,
Within the breeze that softly calls
Her sweet name unto me,
A breath so warm with tender touch
That melts the chill of lonely days,
But yet I know she'll never come
To end my misery.
Upon the shaded river bank
My only thoughts to be with her,
And so these tears shall never dry
Until I find relief,
The graceful swan who swims alone
And so forlornly bows her head,
As she does search in vain for love
I too now share her grief.
I THOUGHT of Thee, my partner and my guide,
As being pass'd away.--Vain sympathies!
For, backward, Duddon! as I cast my eyes,
I see what was, and is, and will abide;
Still glides the Stream, and shall for ever glide;
The Form remains, the Function never dies;
While we, the brave, the mighty, and the wise,
We Men, who in our morn of youth defied
The elements, must vanish;--be it so!
Enough, if something from our hands have power
To live, and act, and serve the future hour;
And if, as toward the silent tomb we go,
Through love, through hope, and faith's transcendent dower,
We feel that we are greater than we know.
i come here to look
for the hearts of the city
and thank God find
them in your frantic frantic  rush
out to the Straits of Malacca
spilling joy and laughter
the way spices and tin were
sailed out from here years ago
i could hear the riotious tinkling
sounds you chime so splendidly
from below the bridge between the
Central Market and the Dayubumi
that looms so perfectly up into sky
the rain has stopped, and your
rush is fast, swift,  reeling,
waves spiralling and swaming
onto those at the fore, over zealous
children hurrying out to field
to have their evening game
i stay put to savour all
the cheers and good vibes
your song is spreading
to all of us, the song that says
all the way from the heart of the Peninusla
'have fun, have fun, have fun  just have fun.'
Yes, yes, Klang River, i will have fun,
just have fun, come rain or shine
the way you share yours
all around, day and night
night and day, all the way
out to the golden straits
O TWEED! a stranger, that with wand'ring feet
O'er hill and dale has journey'd many a mile,
(If so his weary thoughts he might beguile)
Delighted turns thy beauteous scenes to greet.
The waving branches that romantick bend
O'er thy tall banks, a soothing charm bestow;
The murmurs of thy wand'ring wave below
Seem to his ear the pity of a friend.
Delightful stream! tho' now along thy shore,
When spring returns in all her wonted pride,
The shepherd's distant pipe is heard no more,
Yet here with pensive peace could I abide,
Far from the stormy world's tumultuous roar,
To muse upon thy banks at eventide.
Wash of cold river
in a glacial land,
Ionian water,
chill, snow-ribbed sand,
drift of rare flowers,
clear, with delicate shell-
like leaf enclosing
frozen lily-leaf,
camellia texture,
colder than a rose;
wind-flower
that keeps the breath
of the north-wind --
these and none other;
intimate thoughts and kind
reach out to share
the treasure of my mind,
intimate hands and dear
drawn garden-ward and sea-ward
all the sheer rapture
that I would take
to mould a clear
and frigid statue;
rare, of pure texture,
beautiful space and line,
marble to grace
your inaccessible shrine.
Where'er the sweetest river flows
I long that land to be my home,
Where I shall walk with my true love
Amongst the hills of green,
And there above the sun will shine
Within the skies of deepest blue,
And I shall never leave that place
Of beauty so serene.
Where we shall walk together through
The finest meadows hand in hand,
Then stop to pick some daisies as
We rest beneath a tree,
And listen to the birds that sing
Within the boughs that cast their shade,
And there we'll stay till evening falls
And kiss so tenderly.
We'll stop to watch the stars appear
To share the silence of the night,
Then make a wish for love to last
So we shall never part,
We'll see the dawn then rise again
Above the hills that stand before,
To light the way for us to go
And joy shall fill my heart.
Where'er the sweetest river flows
With waters pure I'll drink for thee,
Where blossom forms and flowers bloom
And spring shall never end,
Each day we live so filled with joy
But I know soon I shall awake,
Till then I'll rest within my dreams
With you my precious friend.
WILD SOCIETY
kingfisher
flash of blue
hi ho silvering across the waters
little bird singing
its heart
the world will never know
the cat curious
and seeking
which life now?
On a spring twig
the jay cocks his head
questioning too
pigs in the woods
eating truffles
wild society
............RIVER
rivering rivering rivering
.............rapids
rapidingra pidingrapiding
..........waterfalls
wat erfallfallfallfalling
...^^....^^....^.... ..^^^
^^...^^.....^^^.^^.^........^^^^
**********
......reading the   lake
.........empty waters
.........an old   friend
These 3 poems were pulbished by foam: e  issue #5 online.
go to: http: //www.foame.org/Issue5/poems/gieske.html
Mills and Boon, Mills and Boon,
ravish me - but not too soon...
Boon and Mills, Boon and Mills,
steam my specs with bedtime thrills...
(M&B - publishers of bodice-ripper romance, with strict rules for their writers)
This I know... I have one!
She is very special
I think she’s beautiful
And so very unusual...
She is intelligent,
also very sensual,
Both of which are to me
Relationship essentials
What most brought her to me
Was her sweet empathy
Which I appreciate
Most since I lost Peggy
She’s not a replacement,
I love her for her Self
She’s what it took to get
This widower off the shelf
She’s my loved Marina
from her head to her feet
And she has what it takes
To make my life complete
She’s lovely and I say
She’s my Russian Treasure
Gold has value, but my
Lady’s beyond measure
I cannot explain the way I feel about you
Girl, you're always on my mind
Everytime I often think of you
I get a funny feeling that
I'm so in love with you
I want to give you all my love
Let me show you that I'm real
The love that I have shall never fade away
I'm tired of being broken hearted
I need a little romance in my life
Can't you see I need little romance?
Take my hand
May I have this dance
No one can love the way that I can love
I'm telling you
I need a chance
I need a little romance in my life
She watched him from the shadows
Too shy to say 'hi' she was still suffering
From teenage gawkiness and feared
He would not return her greeting
This handsome young man who
Walked around with an air of true
Self-confidence made her even more
Diffident about even exchanging a smile
Then suddenly to her astonishment
He just turned around and smiled
Then plucking a rose he offered it to her
After that there was no turning back
A new romance was born............
There were thick leaves above me and around,
And low sweet sighs like those of childhood's sleep,
Amidst their dimness, and a fitful sound
As of soft showers on water; dark and deep
Lay the oak shadows o'er the turf, so still
They seem'd but pictured glooms: a hidden rill
Made music, such as haunts us in a dream,
Under the fern-tufts; and a tender gleam
Of soft green light, as by the glow-worm shed,
Came pouring thro' the woven beech-boughs down,
And steep'd the magic page wherein I read
Of royal chivalry and old renown,
A tale of Palestine. Meanwhile the bee
Swept past me with a tone of summer hours,
A drowsy bugle, wafting thoughts of flowers,
Blue skies, and amber sunshine: brightly free,
On filmy wings the purple dragon-fly
Shot glancing like a fairy javelin by;
And a sweet voice of sorrow told the dell
Where sat the lone wood-pigeon:
But ere long,
All sense of these things faded, as the spell
Breathing from that high gorgeous tale grew strong
On my chain'd soul: 'twas not the leaves I heard
A Syrian wind the Lion-banner stirr'd,
Thro' its proud, floating folds: 'twas not the brook,
Singing in secret thro' its grassy glen;
A wild shrill trumpet of the Saracen
Peal'd from the desert's lonely heart, and shook
The burning air. Like clouds when winds are high,
O'er glittering sands flew steeds of Araby,
And tents rose up, and sudden lance and spear
Flash'd where a fountain's diamond wave lay clear,
Shadow'd by graceful palm-trees. Then the shout
Of merry England's joy swell'd freely out,
Sent thro' an eastern heaven, whose glorious hue
Made shields dark mirrors to its depths of blue:
And harps were there; I heard their sounding strings,
As the waste echoed to the mirth of kings.
The bright masque faded. Unto life's worn track,
What call'd me from its flood of glory, back?
A voice of happy childhood! and they pass'd,
Banner, and harp, and Paynim's trumpet's blast;
Yet might I scarce bewail the splendours gone,
My heart so leap'd to that sweet laughter's tone.
Uh oh! wakin' up from a dream
Wishin you were here with me
Jump up and down, now clap ya hands
One more teenage romance
Single? yeah, thats my thing
No commitment, no promise ring
Scream 'yeah' if ya understand
One more teenage romace
CHORUS:
Find myself waitin for your call
When i dont think of u i think of nothin at all
So if ya agree-scream shout and
Give it up for another teen romance
Oopsie daisy I'm lost in your eyes
For a moment you're the love of my life
Ever ended forever? lets see a show o' hands
One more teenage romance
1 week? 2 weeks? maybe a year?
How many temp. forevers we got in here?
Daddies an mommas got up n ran
Uh oh. Another teen romance
Romance
to Bloom
let me wait
and watch out
When the Spring Rains;
it is
now in the sky
lustly curved
with stunning colours
just a minute
it whispers
a new tune of lies
and glues to heart
pining to see
the invisible sight
The embers
of Romance
lightens up
when the moist hearts
warmly rain
looks of Spring
full of perfumed wings
to suckle the nectar
to open up
the pot of potion
mesmerizing ocean
bodies vanish
leaving imprints
we see the lovers
kissing empty airs
seeing life images
like Rainbows
still printed
in transparent airs
Tempered by the friction, of each others loneliness.
Brightly wooed, in our own glad glorious way.
We chasing each other, along those milky ways.
Conditions and competition, fight like mariners.
Love stars, are more dewy luminous than others.
Why separate them, a love creates poetic illusion.
A perspective, like pleasing soft melancholy music.
Happy about joyful liberation, awaking upon life.
Consequently life is also a dream, in relative ways.
Cooperation swinging in or out, of our endurance.
Farewell to daylight, we enjoy a moonlit night sky.
Ourselves no longer strangers, sing like chaffinch.
A sturdy fellow, with a sunburnt face,
And thews and sinews of a giant mould;
A genial mind, that harboured nothing base,—
A pocket void of gold.
The rival’s years were fifty at the least—
Withered his skin, and wrinkled as a crone;
But day by day his worldly goods increased,
Till great his wealth had grown.
And she, the lady of this simple tale,
Was tall and straight, and beautiful to view;
Even a poet’s burning words would fail
To paint her roseate hue.
The suitors came, the old one and the young,
Each with fond words her fancy to allure.
For which of them should marriage bells be rung,
The rich one or the poor?
She liked the young one with his winning ways,
He seemed designed to be her future mate—
Besides, in novels and romantic plays
Love has a youthful gait.
But well she knew that poverty was hard,
And humble household cares not meant for her;
Nor cared she what the sentimental bard
Might warble or infer.
She made her choice, the wedding bells rang clear;
The aged bridegroom figured in the Times.
The young man, after some superfluous beer,
Went forth to foreign climes.
And this is all I ever chanced to know,
Told by my mate while digging on the Creek,
Who ended with his handsome face aglow,
And with a verse in Greek.
How does one make the life so romantic?
No problem even if your friends are living beyond Atlantic
There is no distance barrier and one sees directly
It is enough to rouse feelings if we speak honestly
Even seasons inject the feeling of romance
The individual may find appealing with little glance
It may certainly give relief when first shower is on
Everything sounds dramatic when heat waves have gone
It takes away your concentration when beautiful eyes are met
What a magnetic pull effect when wishes are responded or let
It was beautifully hidden in one side of the beating heart
You are in no position to think or respond despite looking so smart
Beautiful and attractive faces play all the tricks
The magic environment persists without use of sticks
How does one fall in magnetic pull of attraction?
How does the individual respond with any reaction?
One good smile takes away his beautiful smile
He doesn’t know how to carry on for a while
There is strong urge to come very close
They may try to prove good and try not to loose
To go in for quick seduction may not work any longer
They may need some to help them as messenger
The bold action may follow suit if both are sincere
Romantic words are exchanged without any fear
The romance has got no age bar
They can come closer while driving in car
Each one finds a feeling of super star when they meet
The whole world seems to have fallen or come under their feet
He looks at me with a madman's eyes -
It's your house and porch I know so well.
He gives me a kiss with his crimson lips -
Our ancestors had gone to war in scales of steel.
He brought me a bouquet of crimson carnations -
It's your austere face I know so well.
He asked in return for a single kiss -
Our ancestors had gone to war in scales of steel.
He touched me with his finger bearing a dark ring -
It is your dark ring I know so well.
Together we tumbled down on a Turkish divan -
Our ancestors had gone to war in scales of steel.
He looks at me with a madman's eyes -
Dwindle away, o you stars, and fade, o you moon!
He gives me a kiss with his crimson lips -
Our ancestors had gone to war in scales of steel.
She was only ever ‘that girl’,
The one who always awoke instantly from the sound of:
An angry door slamming,
A single tear hitting the cold floor,
And a razor blade being dismantled from its safe covering.
But when she was with him-
With his arms of steal padlocked around her,
Not even the sound of his heartbeat awoke her,
Instead it soothed and rocked her to sleep,
Their two fragmented hearts beating so close,
But they never got a chance to beat to
Beat as one.
A sombre romance
~
Dying flowers in a vase
Mindless routines becoming motions
Without a thought of feeling
Carrying on for the sake of it all
A kiss cold to the lips
What this house has seen in our time
Were these walls to talk
How they would speak about
A sombre romance
The bottles of wine shared
Over a film and Chinese
The tiring pretence
That things are as they were
That nothings changed
New flowers daily, smaller bunches
Forced into a crowded vase
Nothings new anymore
Even this old pretence
Why we keep denying the inevitable
That even the walls know
This sombre romance
Has seen its day
The air cold, crisp to the lung
Breath circles skyward bound
Days fall short, shadowed by the night
Nature climbing into hibernation
Trees standing bare, flowers wilt away
A world still beautiful to the eye
Yet emptied of all its colour
Still my heart it does rejoice
Warmed by another’s kind grace
A muse of such beauty to the soul
Playing out this winter romance
Early evening the moon stands proud
Casting its light through windows
The streets line solitary in shadows
There is not a care but for love
But for love there is not a care
All the beauty of a romantic thought
Is shared amongst friends
A winter romance begins
The beauty of the season
'Tis now that softening hour
When love hath deepest power,
To stir the fond heart with its dreams of delight;
When even the sickening thrill
Of hope deferred is still,
And the sunset of feeling grows golden and bright.
Oh believe me then in this,
Though, in moments of bliss,
Every pulse of thy heart found a response in mine;
When the storm upon us came,
I may merit thy blame,
But, so sweet was our sorrow, I could not repine.
Forgive me if I deemed
Fate kinder than it seemed,
If I smiled at the world and its wildest alarms;
If I inly blessed the grief
That bade thee seek relief
In the loving and cherishing pale of my arms.
Was loss of wealth severe
When a fond one was near
To soothe thee, and make thee a Crœsus in love?
Or vexations all must bear,
Worth a thought or a care,
Which a kiss, and thou'st owned it, a kiss could remove?
What are life's petty ills,
Its hectics or its chills,
Can they weaken affection or wither its flowers?
No; to hearts with feeling warm,
Love's the bow of the storm,
That grows broader and brighter the faster it showers.
Thus will it ever be,
On the world's troubled sea,
When two fond ones are cleaving in concert their way;
Though clouds sometimes may hide
Them, and tempests divide,
They'll be nearer than e'er when the rack drives away.
In life's genial spring,
As on Pleasure's light wing
Through her bowers of enchantment we joyously roved;
With feelings, hopes and fears,
Far too deep for our years,
In that spring-burst of sunshine we met and we loved!
Thou wert then of an age
When the stormy passions rage
More wildly the harsher earth's wise ones reprove;
Pride and gentleness combined,
In thy deep heart were shrined;
The softness and fire of the eagle and dove!
Though Fortune was unkind,
To thy merits ever blind,
Still thy soul could unstooping her malice endure;
And what though thou wert thrown
On this wide world alone,
Did I love thee the less for being friendless and poor?
What is wealth, what is wealth,
Could it purchase me health,
Or secure for us moments more blissful than those
We together oft have passed,
When even Fate's chilling blast
Could not ruffle our own little heaven of repose!
Surely not, surely not;
Every grief was forgot,
Whilst enfolded by thee on thy bosom I hung;
And though tempests raged above,
They were harmless to love,
For the wilder the ruin the closer we clung.
But the sun has looked his last,
And the day is fading fast,
And night's shades are o'erwhelming my heart and my song;
Fare thee well, a long farewell;
I have broken the spell
That has bound me to earth and its witcheries too long!
The memories embracing me, you see
as beautiful as they might be
they're tearing me apart
my already weak heart
This life is just a cruel game
this world, is a shame
conflicting stories, lovers torn apart
without the change of a new start
I was getting into the way of evil might
I lost everything that night
without your sudden appearance I'd have died
but your beautiful wings took me into the height
These arms around me with loving care
what else could I loose if we'd dare
beautifully entwining bodies, bare
anything I have, I want to share
Hot kisses on cold skin
let's commit the sweetest sin
feel the impact of loving
take away my grieving
Never thought it would find such an end
the one you called friend
to bring me death he was send
without you being there to defend
Now, with the time, all the centuries flowing
I still feel my longing for you growing
but will you now ever be knowing
that I'm waiting for you under the stars, the glowing
Love is pain
So scars remain
Mind and body,
It's all the same
I love you now
Like I loved you then
Why do we have to just stay friends?
Is this just my fantasy
because you act like we were never meant
to be
I send you roses, they're usually white
But now that I have changed my mind,
They are blood red
You ask me why and I say
because my wrists bleed for you in the night
I sit alone in my room, listening to the music
That we used to
Then I slowly start to notice that everything
We had has come to an end
Right now I'm hurt and you don't
understand
So let go of my hand
At least until you understand
: : ..**xx Black ROSE Romance xx**..: :
Every once in awhile,
you hear a funny story,
and sometimes you wonder
if what is written there
is fiction or true.
Normally you will not question,
in case it embarrasses or offends.
Well I what I am about to tell you
is it a fib or is it true?
Some thirty-eight years ago,
I went to a funeral of a friend
and ended up with the widow
as a booby prize.
So if I told you that
is exactly how I met my wife,
would you believe me
or would you think I am having you on?
You would be wrong
to think I was having you on.
Because it was at her first husband’s funeral that we met.
It was a few weeks later
a bunch of his friend met, in a coffee bar.
Someone suggested
one of us should take the widow out,
and I drew the short straw
and I got the booby prize
all those years ago,
or was it a fine romance.
I will leave it up to you to decide.
2 July 2007
Yesterday I wrote a joke poem,
Booby Prize Or A Fine Romance,
it told the story of how I met my wife,
all those years ago.
Yes, it was at her first husband’s funeral,
and yes a group of us
met a couple weeks later in a coffee bar,
but no it was not the drawing of a straw,
it was that I volunteered,
which I guess was lucky for me,
because on the 12th of September this year
we celebrate our 37th Wedding Anniversary.
Her first husband was a friend,
but he was a womaniser.
He met his dead in a suicide pact
with a fourteen-year-old girl.
He left a wife and two small children,
without a thought or care,
a month before Christmas that year.
Some said I was brave
to take on a ready-made family.
I do not think I was brave,
but very lucky that day.
We have had our ups and downs
like all families do,
but I would not change a bit of it.
The greatest gifts I received that day,
was a family for a lonely life,
and tolerance through trouble and strife.
Therefore, it is with thanks to them,
I am the man I am today.
Its me you love,
And this I know,
Its him your with,
Oh where'd you go?
I loved you right,
And held you tight,
So why let me go?
I doubt I'll know,
What I did wrong,
So now I'm gone,
And don't answer my phone.
You searched for me,
To bring me back,
But now know,
I couldn't come back,
You made your choice,
And lived a lie,
So why did you go and die?
You searched for love,
And knew you'd never find,
A love as good as mine.
Multicolored monarch fly,
Flower to flower vie,
Tipples nectar,
While I play guitar
Flowers everyday,
For a buxom young lady,
You and I ready,
For a lusty romance
Kisses cheek to cheek,
The dame and I at the peak,
To pick on, pick
Yellow red daisies n’ garden
Flowers I seek,
Roses and candle stick,
Athirst to smooch and flick,
For sweet red lips
Flowers n’ tears, monarch departs,
You and I aren’t apart,
For true love had start,
Promises not to part
As we stood by the lake side
An expanse so wide
For us to see
Then you and me
Our reflection in autumn tones
Bemoans
Belies
The placid waters hidden lies
The first chill of an errant breeze
I looked to the side rather than say please
As the sculpted flakes saunter down
Rest arrogantly on the parting geese's crown
The lumbering crane takes to air I behold
Portend the pervasive cold
Easy an slow practiced rise
Should have been no surprise
There was the swoon the croon
The fetching of a moon
The freezing lake holds my feet
Gingerly tread the storm an sleet
I Shudder I fear.
How shall I steer
My innocence naught in natures way
Or to have you sway
The lake is empty, staid.
Like the uselessness of my golden braid
We stand mute frozen in time
Until the inevitable rhyme
Weather the icy romance
To waltz and dance
I and the lake submit to natures will
To seek in time the thaw the thrill
(Islamabad)
(May 05,2009)
That man
Is having a
Canadian Romance
With that beautiful Girl
And she reminds me of a
Movie star
All I can say is that
He is a lucky men
To have a beautiful girl like
Her
There is heaven in rosy looks
Hell lies in gloomy glance
There is sunshine all around
Why not make it a romance! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Our life is a ballroom dance
Enjoy it you have a chance
Tired! See how others dance
Be happy in their love trance.
Time and tide wait for none
Why don't make life a fun
Calumny and anger shun
Others hearts will be won.
If jealousy you nurse
Smoldering fire traverse
Life becomes a curse
Can't sing love verse.
This Christmas let's dance
Let's take a chance
Harmony & peace advance
Hatred from heart distance.
A shot at romance
She was only ever ‘that girl’,
The one who always awoke instantly from the sound of:
An angry door slamming,
A single tear hitting the cold floor,
And a razor blade being dismantled from its safe covering.
But when she was with him-
With his arms of steal padlocked around her,
Not even the sound of his heartbeat awoke her,
Instead it soothed and rocked her to sleep,
Their two fragmented hearts beating so close,
But they never got a chance to beat to
Beat as one.
Emma Jane Pearson
-------------
It appears that this girl is in love, I think this is too wonderful for some With his arms of steal padlocked around her,
Not even the sound of his heartbeat awoke her,
Instead it soothed and rocked her to sleep -, asked me to think of the poetry of Rabindranath Tagore - Rabindranath Tagore poetry that is a distant man to propose to a girl, but girl hiding in a Window closed behind, not the views of this man, but that men no longer appear in the girl's side, this girl very much miss the man, usually sitting on the window edge, once again look forward to the arrival of men on TV drama,
If this poem of the man who can no longer see the girl now, this girl will find themselves has been the biggest loss of life,
Poetry in my opinion this girl is not because of money and other external factors have my love, is one of the world heavy on sweet things to comfort the people of the beauty,
My irony in a story on some woman in this world willing to speak with the Devil would not treasure marriage,
Indeed, the true feelings and the feelings of real importance, as well as women and men through the feelings of the true, spiritual love combined are the foundation of the world,
Did not put the spirit of the people linked to the feelings of life linked to magma, such as water and fish together, this world is the terrible cold Forever hell
-----------
It seems that this girl rectifies above first love, my feel like this one paragraph of What a match With his arms of steal padlocked around her, Not even the sound of his heartbeat awoke her, Instead it soothed and rocked her to sleep- - - - -, let me remember that poetry and song of Rabindranath Tagore's poetry and song- - Rabindranath Tagore is that the girl makes a proposal to one during the past a distance male person, this girl takes shelter from but behind the window being closing, reluctant idea this male person, That male person will have no the turn up time by this girl anymore but, this girl misses that male person very much, often sit by the window, be expecting that male person's once again arrival, Suppose male person in this poem will no longer appear by the girl, this girl maximal loss that can discover self having met with life, That I think that girl in this poetry and song is not love because of money and my other external factor comes into being, is beautiful conciliative heavy sweet in the world popular feeling object, My money and jewels which can not speak satirizing this some in the world women in being ready to follow a devil in a story gets married, Reliable, true affection and face to face true affection take seriously, the woman and the man pass real sentiments, the spirit feels attached to union each other and, basis being this world, People is not contacted together spirit affection magma is in life connection together, water and fish are in an image this world is forever chill terrifying hell together,
----------
Evidently, this girl is occupying in the first love, I thought this section of too splendid With his arms of steal padlocked around her, Not even the sound of his heartbeat awoke her, Instead it soothed and rocked her to sleep-, is called me to remember Tagore's poetry-Tagore's that poetry is a distant place man comes to a girl to propose, but this girl hides in is closing behind the window, is not willing to see this man, but that man has not appeared again in time this girl's side, this girl thinks of that man, sits frequently nearby the window, is anticipating that man's arrival once more, If in this poem's man does not appear again side the girl, this girl will discover that she has encountered the life biggest loss, I think in this poetry the girl is not because the money and my other external factors produce love, is in the world the serious happy comfort will of the people beautiful thing, I satirize in this world in a story some women to be willing the valuables and money marriage which will speak with the devil, Truly, the real sentiment and takes seriously the real sentiment, as well as the woman and the man through the real sentiment, the spirit loves one another the union, is this world foundation, The people have not contacted with in the together energetic sentiment the rock magma the life relates in together, looks like Shui Heyu in the same place, this world is forever the cold fearful hell,
---------
看 样 子 ， 这 个 姑 娘 正 处 在 初 恋 中 ， 我 觉 得 这 一 段 太 精 彩 了 With his arms of steal padlocked around her,
Not even the sound of his heartbeat awoke her,
Instead it soothed and rocked her to sleep-， 叫 我 想 起 泰 戈 尔 的 诗 歌 -泰 戈 尔 的 那 诗 歌 是 一 个 远 方 的 男 子 来 向 一 姑 娘 求 婚 ， 但 这 姑 娘 躲 在 关 着 的 窗 子 后 面 ， 不 愿 意 见 这 男 子 ， 但 是 那 男 子 再 也 没 有 出 现 在 这 姑 娘 的 身 边 时 ， 这 姑 娘 非 常 想 念 那 男 子 ， 常 常 坐 在 窗 子 边 ， 期 待 着 那 男 子 的 再 次 到 来 ，
假 如 这 诗 中 的 男 子 再 也 不 出 现 在 姑 娘 身 边 ， 这 姑 娘 会 发 现 自 己 遭 到 了 人 生 的 最 大 的 损 失 ，
我 认 为 这 诗 歌 中 的 姑 娘 不 是 因 为 金 钱 和 我 其 它 外 在 因 素 产 生 的 爱 情 ， 是 世 界 上 沉 重 甜 蜜 的 安 慰 人 心 的 美 丽 事 物 ，
我 在 一 个 故 事 中 讽 刺 这 世 界 上 有 的 女 人 愿 意 跟 魔 鬼 的 不 会 说 话 的 财 宝 结 婚 ，
确 实 ， 真 实 的 感 情 和 对 真 实 的 感 情 重 视 ， 以 及 女 人 和 男 人 通 过 真 实 的 感 情 ， 精 神 相 恋 结 合 ， 是 这 个 世 界 的 基 础 ，
没 有 把 人 们 联 系 在 一 起 的 精 神 感 情 的 岩 浆 把 生 命 联 系 在 一 起 ， 像 水 和 鱼 在 一 起 ， 这 个 世 界 就 是 永 远 寒 冷 的 可 怕 地 狱 ，
Is the Dance Of Romance….,
Sometimes you’re not sure….,
But you must take the chance….,
For it may last forever….,
The Dance Of Romance….! ! !
Can you remember…..,
When you could not conceal….,
The passion, the emotion….,
That you would feel….? ? ?
It’s a wondrous state of mind….,
Only time can enhance…..,
Of course that’s only…..,
If you discover love is real….! ! !
The Dance Of Romance….,
The beautiful Dance Of Romance….! ! !
The definition of love
Is when the woman
You're with
Is the only woman
In the world.
The definition of romance
Is when the woman
You're with
Is every woman
In the world.
The shock makes me shake……,
When I’m in your embrace…..,
Sends me like a rocket into outer space…..,
Almost nuclear power…….,
A sensation I cannot erase……,
Thunder shakes me……,
As the passion takes me……,
And I don’t stand a chance……,
With this Electrified Romance……,
Can’t resist your magnetic charm……,
When we touch my heart sounds an alarm…..,
To run away, but I really want to stay…..,
Cause I’ve got high-voltage streaking through my veins…..,
As a Sensual Telepathy*** connects our brains……,
It’s an Electrified Romance……! ! !
(*** Sensual Telepathy, recorded by T.M.. (c)  T.M Music, Inc.,2006.)
BOOK I
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever:
Its loveliness increases; it will never
Pass into nothingness; but still will keep
A bower quiet for us, and a sleep
Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing.
Therefore, on every morrow, are we wreathing
A flowery band to bind us to the earth,
Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth
Of noble natures, of the gloomy days,
Of all the unhealthy and o'er-darkened ways
Made for our searching: yes, in spite of all,
Some shape of beauty moves away the pall
From our dark spirits. Such the sun, the moon,
Trees old and young, sprouting a shady boon
For simple sheep; and such are daffodils
With the green world they live in; and clear rills
That for themselves a cooling covert make
'Gainst the hot season; the mid forest brake,
Rich with a sprinkling of fair musk-rose blooms:
And such too is the grandeur of the dooms
We have imagined for the mighty dead;
All lovely tales that we have heard or read:
An endless fountain of immortal drink,
Pouring unto us from the heaven's brink.
Nor do we merely feel these essences
For one short hour; no, even as the trees
That whisper round a temple become soon
Dear as the temple's self, so does the moon,
The passion poesy, glories infinite,
Haunt us till they become a cheering light
Unto our souls, and bound to us so fast,
That, whether there be shine, or gloom o'ercast;
They always must be with us, or we die.
Therefore, 'tis with full happiness that I
Will trace the story of Endymion.
The very music of the name has gone
Into my being, and each pleasant scene
Is growing fresh before me as the green
Of our own valleys: so I will begin
Now while I cannot hear the city's din;
Now while the early budders are just new,
And run in mazes of the youngest hue
About old forests; while the willow trails
Its delicate amber; and the dairy pails
Bring home increase of milk. And, as the year
Grows lush in juicy stalks, I'll smoothly steer
My little boat, for many quiet hours,
With streams that deepen freshly into bowers.
Many and many a verse I hope to write,
Before the daisies, vermeil rimm'd and white,
Hide in deep herbage; and ere yet the bees
Hum about globes of clover and sweet peas,
I must be near the middle of my story.
O may no wintry season, bare and hoary,
See it half finish'd: but let Autumn bold,
With universal tinge of sober gold,
Be all about me when I make an end.
And now, at once adventuresome, I send
My herald thought into a wilderness:
There let its trumpet blow, and quickly dress
My uncertain path with green, that I may speed
Easily onward, thorough flowers and weed....
Sister once of weeds & a dark water that held still
In ditches reflecting the odd,
Abstaining clouds that passed, & kept
Their own counsel, we
Were different, we kept our own counsel.
Outside the tool shed in the noon heat, while our father
Ground some piece of metal
That would finally fit, with grease & an hour of pushing,
The needs of the mysterious Ford tractor,
We argued out, in adolescence,
Whole systems of mathematics, ethics,
And finally agreed that altruism,
Whose long vowel sounded like the pigeons,
Roosting stupidly & about to be shot
In the barn, was impossible
If one was born a Catholic. The Swedish
Lutherans, whom the nuns called
“Statue smashers,” the Japanese on
Neighboring farms, were, we guessed,
A little better off ....
When I was twelve, I used to stare at weeds
Along the road, at the way they kept trembling
Long after a car had passed;
Or at gnats in families hovering over
Some rotting peaches, & wonder why it was
I had been born a human.
Why not a weed, or a gnat?
Why not a horse, or a spider? And why an American?
I did not think that anything could choose me
To be a Larry Levis before there even was
A Larry Levis. It was strange, but not strange enough
To warrant some design.
On the outside,
The barn, with flaking paint, was still off-white.
Inside, it was always dark, all the way up
To the rafters where the pigeons moaned,
I later thought, as if in sexual complaint,
Or sexual abandon; I never found out which.
When I walked in with a 12-gauge & started shooting,
They fell, like gray fruit, at my feet—
Fat, thumping things that grew quieter
When their eyelids, a softer gray, closed,
Part of the way, at least,
And their friends or lovers flew out a kind of skylight
Cut for loading hay.
I don’t know, exactly, what happened then.
Except my sister moved to Switzerland.
My brother got a job
With Colgate-Palmolive.
He was selling soap in Lodi, California.
Later, in his car, & dressed
To die, or live again, forever,
I drove to my own, first wedding.
I smelled the stale boutonniere in my lapel,
A deceased young flower.
I wondered how my brother’s Buick
Could go so fast, &,
Still questioning, or catching, a last time,
An old chill from childhood,
I thought: why me, why her, & knew it wouldn’t last.
She said that one day she might come back
But this is how it's been for years
I walk on tight ropes and stay too close to the glass
And I hide from my greatest fears
Well I'm done, with holding one
I'm hanging up, the will is gone
Tomorrow brings, a new religion
Yeah you can say I'm taking this one for me
I took a day out to remember
Just the way it felt, the sun and the air
I rode for hours following the train tracks
Until the sky said, yeah it's time to leave
And there I felt, a sudden bolt
Of static life, and electric soul
Today I feel, I can carry on
Love and life came back to sing their song
Can you remember the way it felt
Can't you feel the fire burning
Yes can't you reveal to me how this
Never-ending love could have failed
Well here's to you ‘cause I'm moving on
I lay out sprawled upon the sand
And I know that this is who I want to be
I hear the waves crashing onto the shore
This life-long renewal has new meaning
So you want a piece of my
Rosy, cushy, juicy pie
I’m afraid, without romance on supply
This refined lady is not going to comply
Before into my world
You make your entrance
Remember this lady loves romance
So how about friendship with romance
Maybe you may stand a chance
Send me sweet roses once in a while
Make it your number one style
I need you now, not as a lover
If that is your immediate aim
You’ll be sucked out of my life with a hover
So how about friendship with romance
Now and then, take me out to dance
Hypnotise me, enchant me in a trance
With words and your exquisite rainbow smile
Don’t just tell me, ‘you fancy me’
I’ll buzz these words to you like a bee
Go take a hike by the sea
Till you roast and dry
So you want a taste of my
Rosy, cushy, juicy delicious pie
I’m afraid, without romance on supply
This refined lady is not going to comply
You have no money! That’s no excuse
There are so many different ways to amuse
I love romance
I eat romance
I sleep romance
Send me little sweet notes
Put them in a bottle
Out in the sea to float
I love romance with a passion
Mesmerise me with some imagination
Don’t try pushy or bushy
There is simply no chance without romance
Of the sweet taste
Of my rosy, cushy, juicy delicious pie
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Life is full of enterprise and romance
It must be tested and understood at once
We are here to prove our worth and excel
Rest all may follow suit and go well
He has thought over it and assigned the role
Take it as challenge and respond to call
You may find thousands of different creatures
You got to decide where your future lies
Prove on return that you did whatever you could
You did not merely spent life for searching the food
Even thought life was proving hell and difficult
You should love to live without fear of any insult
If you determined to overcome all the hurdles
There won’t be any impact even if they come in bundles
It is part of life and must be faced as they come
Seattle it accordingly and always try to welcome
It can’t come to standstill with one or two failures
It strengthens your efforts to make it sure
The end path is chosen and pushed through
This is only truth and equally true
We must thank almighty for giving us an opportunity
Even though it is a belief and we can only think of infinity
It is afforded once only and if is lost in vain
There will be nothing left except pain
She hosed away the grime of time
The garden of love is now quite sublime.
Fresh roses of all colours bloom
Dainty shades for the Bride
Deeper shades for the groom.
Maybe a little romance is needed
Lightening our days in all this grey
To place a smile on our faces
You can't have too much romance
In a life that's filled with sadness
Making us laugh with pleasure
Give me romance to dazzle me
To make my heart sing out loud
And make me feel I'm alive
Bring on the romance to me
It's welcome in a soul of tears
Appreciated from this coldness
Give me romantic words and deeds
So pleasing to my eyes and ears
Make me happy for a little while
Give me romance everytime
To make me blush and smile
Instead of all these teasing words
rewrite of poem lost in the ether lol but still on document.....Fi
Romance
came at morning
love story without end
we stole a kiss by the river
the haven of love way down in the glen
soprano voices came hither
ecstasy lingered then
with the bliss of
romance.
Only a shy young maiden was I
how could my heart ever know
that love was steadily seeping
into the innocence of my soul?
Romance
came with glory
love's fable now I pen
we fell in love one September
at a haven of love way down in the glen
your kind caress I remember
I was eager to dance
on wings of true
Romance.
She wears a black bar over her eyes so you don't have to see her
Or at least she believes so if she can't see you
And her skin sticks to her clothing, pulsing sweat from the sunlight
If you get under that bar long enough you'll stick like glue
The accidental shirt slips down under the finer linen
Embarrassed that she has the shirt on in the first place
The finer things in life come free anyway, that's what she says
But she keeps that bar over her eyes, your mind starts to race
And when she smiles
And you're in denial
You can't help erase
What you know in the back of your mind she is
She's just a teenage girl, does she know any better?
Just a teenage girl, certainly her dad wouldn't let her
A teenage girl, and you wish you could have her
But I'm a teenage guy, and she's mine
Though I can't help wondering why she wants you
And I hope and pray that one day she'll look back at me
You know she likes you ‘cause your hands are so damn big
Well how the hell am I supposed to compete with that?
She wears a black bar over her eyes so you don't have to see her
Other censorship seems a waste when she gives it away
The finer things in life come free anyway, that's what you think
But I swear that I'll make you pay for taking her from me
And when she smiles
And you're in denial
You can't help erase
What you know in the back of your mind she is
She's just a teenage girl, does she know any better?
Just a teenage girl, certainly her dad wouldn't let her
A teenage girl, and now yeah you have her
And I'm just a teenage guy, she used to be mine.
It’s February and romance is in the air.
Shops are filled with things to give your lady fair.
Heart shaped items to express I love you
for both men and women to confess their love is true.
Someone somewhere is making a big fat profit out of this
and certainly isn’t me.
Florist jack their prices up just for Valentines Day.
In Fact, everyone does the same,
because they know only too well
people are going to buy them of pay the consequence,
and consequence could be nasty.
Therefore, if you see someone
with a rolling pin implanted in their head,
or a frying pan with a big dent in it
you will know someone has forgotten
and paid the consequence.
12 February 2007
It’s a kamikaze romance
With our hearts strapped in the seats
And we wage a war called Love
And we’ll not concede defeat
Even if it means flying
In the face of certain doom
We both know the end is coming,
And the end is coming soon…
It’s a kamikaze romance
How sweet the flight, though, while it lasts
Hurtling through the air
Watching heart-shaped clouds zooming past…
Let’s try, love, not to think
Of how this must come to an end
We know it will not last forever
But at least we can pretend…
It’s a kamikaze romance
And when our course starts turning downwards
All the memories of what we had
Will forever be ours
When comes the end; with tears,
With a scream, and with a screech,
Perhaps they’ll find pieces of our broken hearts
Strewn across some glassy beach…
Let romance be romance
Every dark night be morning
And love our 2nd chance
In love's ever turning
From its doubling dear
Giving so much and close
Just by heaving you here
Like sweet morning rose
Every day is to be fine
Coming in for a kiss
When there's rising sunshine
With everything there is
Love falling younger
Into everything sung
Every day so much longer
In the summer's tongue
Rising and energizing
In new dreams of creation
Imaginations beauty stylizing
With romancing gradation
Love songs to do and give
Feeling of desiring long
This around now to live
In anew found around song
Like a lone Arab, old and blind,
Some caravan had left behind,
Who sits beside a ruin'd well,
Where the shy sand-asps bask and swell;
And now he hangs his ag{'e}d head aslant,
And listens for a human sound--in vain!
And now the aid, which Heaven alone can grant,
Upturns his eyeless face from Heaven to gain;--
Even thus, in vacant mood, one sultry hour,
Resting my eye upon a drooping plant,
With brow low-bent, within my garden-bower,
I sate upon the couch of camomile;
And--whether 'twas a transient sleep, perchance,
Flitted across the idle brain, the while
I watch'd the sickly calm with aimless scope,
In my own heart; or that, indeed a trance,
Turn'd my eye inward--thee, O genial Hope,
Love's elder sister! thee did I behold
Drest as a bridesmaid, but all pale and cold,
With roseless cheek, all pale and cold and dim,
Lie lifeless at my feet!
And then came Love, a sylph in bridal trim,
And stood beside my seat;
She bent, and kiss'd her sister's lips,
As she was wont to do;--
Alas! 'twas but a chilling breath
Woke just enough of life in death
To make Hope die anew.
She is May,
And I am December.
She appeared one day,
And she fanned the embers.
She is morning,
And I am twilight.
She's just started soaring,
And I'm scared of heights.
She is so fresh,
Like the morning dew.
I'm an old geyser
That no longer spews.
I guess I'm as lucky,
As lucky can be.
Because with so many young bucks,
She decided on me.
10/6/10 Alton Texas
I wanted to tell you
how it is that I love you
it used to be so easy
I'd pick up a pen
and let the words flow in
choosing the right ones so freely
But then I'd let someone
talk me into destruction
of all thinking and feeling
Just once a day this pill
which, at times, makes me ill
supresses... well, pretty much anything
Now it seems like every day
feels strangely the same in every way
like lifeless circles of day and night
They treat me for depression
by drugging my brain into submission
yet somehow, I'm not a zombie... right?
Forgive me for my senseless rambling
trying to keep my brain from scrambling
A battle I very much seem to be losing
There was something I had to tell you
but what that was, I have no clue...
Hmmm... I think I need a nap.
My romance is not hard or odd.
Since I've got it to give.
It's here for you...
And it lives.
My romance is not a part time job.
Full time!
You-are-on-my-mind.
You've got to know...
My romance is not hard or odd.
You've got to know...
My romance is not a part time job.
You've got to know...
I'll sweat.
Because I can't let you go!
My romance is not a part time job.
And I'll sweat.
Because I can't let you go!
My romance is not hard or odd.
My romance is not a part time job.
My romance is coming from my heart.
And I'll sweat!
Since I can't let you go!
My romance is not hard or odd.
My romance is not a part time job.
My romance is coming from my heart.
And I'll sweat!
Since I can't let you go!
And I'll sweat!
Since I can't let you go!
669
No Romance sold unto
Could so enthrall a Man
As the perusal of
His Individual One—
'Tis Fiction's—When 'tis small enough
To Credit—'Tisn't true!
I am truly scared for him,
I am not sure that I would vote for him,
I believe he needs experience,
but, ... this seems like his time.
His message has a resonance,
as if he's going to make a real difference,
not for some, but  ALL  this time,
... political romance.
Bobby had that vision,
and they put an end to him,
in a kitchen in Los Angeles,
since then, the light has dimmed.
Damned partisans without regard,
for fear of non-selection,
simply vote along the party lines,
and pray there's no detection.
Blindly followed leadership,
if you can call it that,
beg for more, demanding more,
...  and threaten through their party hats!
They view the people as an evil,
to maintain a ' cushy ' circumstance,
their employers are annoying,
and so they lie to us with political romance.
I am truly scared for him,
because an educated black man,
is still the biggest fear of far too many,
that refuse to understand.
I've heard it said that there are none so blind,
as those that will not see,
that cut off their nose to spite their face,
and somehow think that makes them pretty.
It only takes one idiot,
and one finger on a trigger,
to end the dreams of millions,
by killing one smart...  dreamer!
I'm not sure that  I'll vote for him,
his experience, an issue,
his intellegence is not in question,
but, will his motives be diffused?
This feels like the time to me,
to ask for one more dance,
and hope the partner understands,
- - - more than political romance!
(The original 3/26/2008 - revised 8/20/2008)
(You may also wish to consider ' The November to Remember ')
The lady at the corner wicket
Sold me a stamp, I stooped to lick it,
And on the envelope to stick it;
A spinster lacking girlish grace,
Yet sweetly sensitive, her face
Seemed to en-star that stodgy place.
Said I: "I've come from o'er the sea
To ask you if you'll marry me -
That is to say, if you are free.
I see your gentle features freeze;
'I do not like such jokes as these,'
You seem to say . . . Have patience, please.
I saw you twenty years ago;
Just here you sold me stamps, and Oh
Your image seemed to haunt me so.
For you were lovely as a rose,
But I was poor, and I suppose
At me you tilted dainty nose.
Ah, well I knew love could not be,
So sought my fortune o'er the sea,
Deeming that you were lost to me.
Of sailing ships a mate was I,
From oriental ports to ply . . .
Ten years went past of foreign sky.
But always in the starry night
I steered my course with you in sight,
My dream of you a beacon light.
Then after a decade had sped
I cam again: 'What luck? I said,
'Will she be here and free to wed?'
Oh it was on a morn of Spring,
And I had in my purse a ring
I bought in Eastern voyaging,
With thought of you and only you;
For I to my love dream was true . . .
And here you were, your eyes of blue.
The same sun shining on your brow
Lustered you hair as it does now,
My heart was standing still, I vow.
I bought a stamp, my eyes were bent
Upon a ring you wore - I went
Away as if indifferent.
Again I sailed behind the mast,
And yet your image held me fast,
For once again ten years have passed.
And I am bronzed with braid of gold;
The rank of Captain now I hold,
And fifty are my years all told.
Yet still I have that ruby ring
I bought for you that morn of Spring -
See, here it is, a pretty thing. . . .
But now you've none upon your finger;
Why? I don't know - but as I linger
I'm thinking : Oh what can I bring her.
Who all my life have ploughed the ocean,
A lonely man with one devotion -
Just you? Ah, if you'd take the notion
To try the thing you ought to wear,
It fits so well. Do leave it there.
And here's a note addressed to you.
Ah yes, quite strangers are we two,
But - well, please answer soon . . . Adieu!
*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
Oh no, you never more will see
Her selling stamps at Wicket Three:
Queen of my home, she's pouring tea.
Radio romance ridicules soul,
soldiers beat is the only motion I know.
The power of pride I will always show,
never shall I hide the glorious glow.
Radio romance advances swiftly,
razor eyes rumble the ground before thee,
trembling knees gain strength and rigidity,
supporting the weight of all that is me.
Radio romance spits fulsome flattery,
sadly believed are these words entrusted through doubt.
Loves lies swipe neat,
about face choked cries.
Radio romance takes a seat, beat
Dear, you learn by mind
Memoirs of yesterdays
Dear, know me again
I’m still loving you
April 1, your birthday
I can’t surpass that day
Even after several years
Rewind recall your worth
Whenever enfold me
Solicited deep kiss
Obvious your sparkling eyes
Pleaded for the passion
You are my marvel
Reflective romance
I can’t flight any more
My first love, my sweet love
So zeal your smell
So nice your tone
So lovely your heart
So nurture your feel
Wherever you are
I’m sure you join me
I wish for call you to
Upcoming world of love
Dear, you learn by heart
Memoirs of yesterdays
Wait on reflective romance
I still be devoted to you
(Riyadh,20 June 2009)
Old fashioned movies
With true love to gain
Always remember romance
And kiss in the rain.
The only thing you have
Is the hope of his kiss
And waiting for the day
Is all that you miss
In love, in romance
Looking into his eyes
Is all you want to do
No time for any lies
So send him a text
Drop him a line
And maybe one day
He’ll take the time
He’ll fall for you
And never look back
Your life will be bright
No time for dark, no black
I hope he’s always there
To take away my pain
And to remember romance
And to kiss in the rain
Beneath the pink horizon of dusk,
Parting words will be spoken
Over my shadowy grave;
Someone I used to love and trust
Will remember how she betrayed me
With a burning knife
Seared into my wounded heart,
And she’ll weep at the shattered remnants
Of my lonely poetry.
And if she enters the state
Of disintegration
Before my own oblivion overtakes me,
This will be her final victory
Until we inflame
All the residents of Hades.
Hand blessed hand, caressed.
A blushing rose, her face;
Her breast alive;
The elfin nose, a diamond set -
A kiss upon perfection
Bore a rise of pulse
To coach a sultry moan
Across a mellow breath of wine.
He knew; he sensed,
And easing loose a clasp of lace,
Another sign of her relenting:
Wild the play of eyes,
A fuller glide of skin;
He felt the now begin -
Her swell, intention in the sigh.
And so to hedge his move upon the cue -
The cry of deep anticipation,
Waxing all he saw -
Tho' not for us to view -
Arrived, emotion raw.
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2011
< br>
< br>
Now render to caressing waves of romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Romance romance romance romance
Forty words:
Today is such a romantic day
the warmth is simply inspiring,
heaven shines in brilliant array
joy of two hearts' desiring.
Oh the glory of beautiful June
unrivalled in magical splendour
honeymoon for bride and groom
deeply in love forever.
It started with a little smile
A flirt and bat of the eye
For Elaine saw the man
She wanted to be her guy
John knew before too long
His life was about to transform
Elaine was so pretty and so sweet
She sort of took him by storm
So the courting began before long
Friends they were from the start
And as feelings began to change
Love festered and grew in their hearts
Nothing would be the same again
It was bound to happen, it’s true
Much thought in both their minds
It didn’t happen out of the blue
Of course there is a happy ending
A life they wanted to share
And it all started when one day
Romance was in the air!
YOU stood beside the flowers,
Yourself a flower;
And on your face
The twilight stayed another hour,
It shone so pale;
And all around men talked as in a market-place.
I heard them talk, and felt
No interest stir
In what they said.
Lilies were nigh you, and around you were
The lights of love,
And all about the world moved on with nervous tread.
I heard it not; for down
And round about
My soul you drew
The veils that shut the loud earth out,
And I and you
Were there alone — no one beside but I and you!
What words were those we said?
Old ones, perchance,
Pale with the pain
Of all who've kissed, and talked romance,
And said farewell,
And mixed their tears and kissed, and sighed — and sighed in vain.
We stood a sainted while,
And then your hand
Sought to be free,
And you were gone; and all the land
Was under gloom,
And lamps were lit for other men, but none for me.
I stood and watched you go,
And suddenly
The loud world grew
Like some great-voiced, insetting sea;
And men went by,
Talking of trade and war and all but love and you.
Feminine...the 'dreamy' kind
every man adores her,
beautiful in summer sun
when Mr. Romance calls her.
He sings nostalgic melodies
introduced discreetly,
mellow notes to melt the heart
Bliss, when rendered sweetly.
He sends white lilies to her room
to celebrate each new occasion;
her boudoir's filled with fresh perfume
and sensuous adoration.
Golden rings upon her finger
give hope of many years to come
and unforgettable memories linger
of romance in the summer sun.
Romance In Your Pants….,
Most times you can tell….,
With only a glance….,
But love can’t advance…..,
Unless you take the chance….,
And proceed to dance…..! ! !
So whatever sex you may be….,
I know you’ll handle it gracefully….,
Cause no matter what the circumstance….,
There’s no doubt…..,
That you’ve got Romance In Your Pants….! ! !
.
Romance is dead
It fell to the ground
With a bullet in its head
It was a cold blooded killer
That pulled the trigger
While the children played
In the park, on the swings
Poor Romance went down
Without a sound, Without a fight
It didn't stand a chance
Noone came to the funeral
It was shown up for what it was
Big Businesses Marionette
which lay beneath the soil
Along with Romeo and Juliet
It never lived happily every after
In careless abandonment
It chose instead
To die beside Heathcliff
On a dampened bed
By Scott L. Daniels
A glass of cheap vodka tastes just like depression -
It hurts to be sober tonight.
The mirror reflects such a hideous expression
That I promptly turn off the light.
Some porno, then casual sex with my hand...
Oh damn! This is something I shouldn't have said.
Why don't you believe that I need no boyfriend -
No problems, no worries, no tears, no regret?
Romance is dead,
And so am I,
I can't forget
My perfect lie.
I still recall
The times we had.
Oh well, that's all.
Romance is dead.
I can't fall asleep, so I get on the net,
Where I claim to be an online super-wh-,
I find guys like you just to make them all fret,
My tease makes them want me, but they can't get more
Than flirt for some minutes, some sexual tension
And then disconnect. Their muse disappears.
I've had a good time with these cruel intentions -
Enough for today. See you later, my dear.
Romance is dead,
And so am I,
I can't forget
My perfect lie.
I still recall
The times we had.
Oh well, that's all.
Romance is dead.
Romance is dead!
You say it is stupid, it doesn't make sense,
But you are the first to have buried romance.
Tracks of rain and light linger in
the spongy greens of a nature whose
flickering mountain--bulging nearer,
ebbing back into the sun
hollowing itself away to hold a lake,--
or brown stream rising and falling at the roadside, turning about,
churning itself white, drawing
green in over it,--plunging glassy funnels
fall--
And--the other world--
the windshield a blunt barrier:
Talk to me. Sh! they would hear us.
--the backs of their heads facing us--
The stream continues its motion of
a hound running over rough ground.
Trees vanish--reappear--vanish:
detached dance of gnomes--as a talk
dodging remarks, glows and fades.
--The unseen power of words--
And now that a few of the moves
are clear the first desire is
to fling oneself out at the side into
the other dance, to other music.
Peer Gynt. Rip Van Winkle. Diana.
If I were young I would try a new alignment--
alight nimbly from the car, Good-bye!--
Childhood companions linked two and two
criss-cross: four, three, two, one.
Back into self, tentacles withdrawn.
Feel about in warm self-flesh.
Since childhood, since childhood!
Childhood is a toad in the garden, a
happy toad. All toads are happy
and belong in gardens. A toad to Diana!
Lean forward. Punch the steerman
behind the ear. Twirl the wheel!
Over the edge! Screams! Crash!
The end. I sit above my head--
a little removed--or
a thin wash of rain on the roadway
--I am never afraid when he is driving,--
interposes new direction,
rides us sidewise, unforseen
into the ditch! All threads cut!
Death! Black. The end. The very end--
I would sit separate weighing a
small red handful: the dirt of these parts,
sliding mists sheeting the alders
against the touch of fingers creeping
to mine. All stuff of the blind emotions.
But--stirred, the eye seizes
for the first time--The eye awake!--
anything, a dirt bank with green stars
of scrawny weed flattened upon it under
a weight of air--For the first time!--
or a yawning depth: Big!
Swim around in it, through it--
all directions and find
vitreous seawater stuff--
God how I love you!--or, as I say,
a plunge into the ditch. The End. I sit
examining my red handful. Balancing
--this--in and out--agh.
Love you? It's
a fire in the blood, willy-nilly!
It's the sun coming up in the morning.
Ha, but it's the grey moon too, already up
in the morning. You are slow.
Men are not friends where it concerns
a woman? Fighters. Playfellows.
White round thighs! Youth! Sighs--!
It's the fillip of novelty. It's--
Mountains. Elephants humping along
against the sky--indifferent to
light withdrawing its tattered shreds,
worn out with embraces. It's
the fillip of novelty. It's a fire in the blood.
Oh get a flannel shirt, white flannel
or pongee. You'd look so well!
I married you because I liked your nose.
I wanted you! I wanted you
in spite of all they'd say--
Rain and light, mountain and rain,
rain and river. Will you love me always?
--A car overturned and two crushed bodies
under it.--Always! Always!
And the white moon already up.
White. Clean. All the colors.
A good head, backed by the eye--awake!
backed by the emotions--blind--
River and mountain, light and rain--or
rain, rock, light, trees--divided:
rain-light counter rocks-trees or
trees counter rain-light-rocks or--
Myriads of counter processions
crossing and recrossing, regaining
the advantage, buying here, selling there
--You are sold cheap everywhere in town!--
lingering, touching fingers, withdrawing
gathering forces into blares, hummocks,
peaks and rivers--rivers meeting rock
--I wish that you were lying there dead
and I sitting here beside you.--
It's the grey moon--over and over.
It's the clay of these parts.
a boy and girl walking home from school one day.
girl-so what are we doing tonight
boy-i dont know want to watch a movie
girl-sure what are we going to watch?
boy-not sure yet ill think of something
girl-lets watch a romance.
boy-nooo thats boyfriend girlfriend junk.
gurl-(sighs)    but umm well...
boy- what? whats rong.
girl-i was just hoping.
boy-what? (confused)
walks to front door
boy-umm oook well ill see you later.
girl- yeah' right cya (frowns)    as she walks away
girl goes over boys house  and rings the doorbell boy answers
boy-Wow You look GREAT' thought we where just watching a movie.
girl-we are i just thought i would dress up a little.
boy-lol what ever
boy and girl sits on couch.
girl- soo what are we going to watch-gets closer.
boy-idk-backs up.
girl and boy start watching a horror flick
girl-hides face in boys chest.
boy-(smiles)    kisses girls head.
girl-smiles back.
girl and boy look into eachers eyes.
boy-moves closer
girl-moves closer
boy and girl start kissing
Boy-i have loved you for so long im glad were togeather.
Girl-i loved you to i mean i love you so much does this mean were dating
Boy-yes and im glad im dating you.
A yr later still dating boy girl get into a fight
Girl-i have to go im sorry please just understand we cant see eacher anymore
Boy-please tell me why did i do something rong?
Girl- no no please just let it be where it is im sorry i love you bye
week after that night
Boy goes over girls house theres a moving truck.
Boy walks up...girl carrying boxes
Boy-why cant we see eacher anymore and whats going on with the trucks
Girl-im moving.
Boy-i noticed
Boy- where you moving to
Girl-Florida ill call you when i get there and settled
Girl- im sorry I have to go (starts to sob/cry)
Guy just stands there and watches girl leave. as a tear rolls down his cheek
3 years later.
Girl in collage now.and has moved on with her life
Girl-hey Alexis what’s up I have to go to Jon’s room he wants to talk to me.
I think he wants to ask me out yay cant wait I have a total crush on him
Alexis - i know... butt hey I have something to tell you.
Girl-what?
Alexis-ok do you remember when you moved about 3 years ago.
Girl-  yeah (confused)    why? ?
Alexis- remember Chris.
Girl-  ummmmmyeah? ? ? ?
Alexis-he is kind of be hind you
Girl-WHAT?
Girl-looks behind her and sees a tall handsome man with long brown hair she smiles as she walks closer to her long lost friend.
Chris-I have waited so long to see you Jessica
Jessica- omg (starts to cry)
Chris-I missed you
Jessica- omg I missed you so much
Chris-I heard..lol
Jessica (blushes)    he’s just a friend
Chris-its cool so what are we doing to night? ?
Jessica- omg (blushes once more)    smiles and says idk you want to watch a movie.
At the same time Jessica and chris said how bout a romance and they both laughed
Jessica and Chris are now on there 3year in collage and still dating
three  years after collage  jessica and chris  get married and have a baby on the way and they both live happly ever after.
Change is life, though he loves status quo
Unwilling perhaps yet he accepts to bow
Before the authority's command for change
Coward in him fails to face powers' challange.
Inaction n indecision are inherent qualities
Practiced by bureaucrat by grace of almighty.
In romance he indulges with schemes n reforms
Loyalty n sincerity, never he follows such norms.
Romance of bureaucrat blurs any vision
That incorporates plans n their implementation.
Mismanagement n misconception are the basics
That train n teach him treachrous tricks.
He romances too with guv policy's formulation
As also its' circulation n  on it ample discussion.
Poet; Ratnakar D Mandlik
Who will wed the Dowager’s youngest daughter,
The Captain? filled with ale?
He moored his expected boat to a stake in the water
And stumbled on sea-legs into the Hall for mating,
Only to be seduced by her lady-in-waiting,
Round-bosomed, and not so pale.
Or the thrifty burgher in boots and fancy vest
With considered views of marriage?
By the tidy scullery maid he was impressed
Who kept that house from depreciation and dirt,
But wife does double duty and takes no hurt,
So he rode her home in his carriage.
Never the spare young scholar antiquary
Who was their next resort;
They let him wait in the crypt of the Old Library
And found him compromised with a Saxon book,
Claiming his truelove Learning kept that nook
And promised sweet disport.
Desirée (of a mother’s christening) never shall wed
Though fairest child of her womb;
“We will have revenge,” her injured Ladyship said,
“Henceforth the tightest nunnery be thy bed
By the topmost stair! When the ill-bred lovers come
We’ll say, She is not at home.”
It was Dunois, the young and brave, was bound for Palestine,
But first he made his orisons before Saint Mary's shrine:
'And grant, immortal Queen of Heaven,' was still the Soldierâ€™s prayer;
'That I may prove the bravest knight, and love the fairest fair.'
His oath of honour on the shrine he graved it with his sword,
And followed to the Holy Land the banner of his Lord;
Where, faithful to his noble vow, his war-cry filled the air,
'Be honoured aye the bravest knight, beloved the fairest fair.'
They owed the conquest to his arm, and then his Liegeâ€“Lord said,
'The heart that has for honour beat by bliss must be repaid.-â€”
My daughter Isabel and thou shall be a wedded pair,
For thou art bravest of the brave, she fairest of the fair.'
And then they bound the holy knot before Saint Mary's shrine,
That makes a paradise on earth, if hearts and hands combine;
And every lord and lady bright that were in chapel there
Cried, 'Honoured be the bravest knight, beloved the fairest fair!'
The pages of the years
Are crying of the same;
Each word - each silent sound reminds of you,
I'm counting days
By just extracting from dimension 'love'
Dimension 'pain'.
And I'll forget you, love
Just when a blind man draws
One sound on the non-existing wall,
One of a rose
That's falling quietly on the castle's floor,
No longer whole.
Through all the darkest nights
I'll have your worst nightmares,
I'll be your one eternal candle's light,
I'm always there -
We breathe the same and so much filled with love
October air.
And when the ages die,
The broken hourglass -
The symbol of the battle 'Love and Time'-
Will speak of us.
The world, no longer knowing what is love,
Will speak of us.
the moon who wrote by candle light,
he whispered low his love, to whom he adored-
in a romantic game of follow the leader
he chased the sun in chance,  he might catch her.
in a purple dawn, for once they shared the same sky-
then he, the moon, into her shadow receded from the twilight
MY Love dwelt in a Northern land.
A gray tower in a forest green
Was hers, and far on either hand
The long wash of the waves was seen,
And leagues on leagues of yellow sand,
The woven forest boughs between!
And through the silver Northern night
The sunset slowly died away,
And herds of strange deer, lily-white,
Stole forth among the branches gray;
About the coming of the light,
They fled like ghosts before the day!
I know not if the forest green
Still girdles round that castle gray;
I know not if the boughs between
The white deer vanish ere the day;
Above my Love the grass is green,
My heart is colder than the clay!
When you are seventeen you aren't really serious.
- One fine evening, you've had enough of beer and lemonade,
And the rowdy cafes with their dazzling lights!
- You go walking beneath the green lime trees of the promenade.
The lime trees smell good on fine evenings in June!
The air is so soft sometimes, you close your eyelids;
The wind, full of sounds, - the town's not far away -
Carries odours of vines, and odours of beer...
II
- Then you see a very tiny rag
Of dark blue, framed by a small branch,
Pierced by an unlucky star which is melting away
With soft little shivers, small, perfectly white...
June night! Seventeen! - You let yourself get drunk.
The sap is champagne and goes straight to your head...
You are wandering; you feel a kiss on your lips
Which quivers there like something small and alive...
III
Your mad heart goes Crusoeing through all the romances,
- When, under the light of a pale street lamp,
Passes a young girl with charming little airs,
In the shadow of her father's terrifying stiff collar...
And because you strike her as absurdly naif,
As she trots along in her little ankle boots,
She turns, wide awake, with a brisk movement...
And then cavatinas die on your lips...
IV
You're in love. Taken until the month of August.
You're in love - Your sonnets make Her laugh.
All your friends disappear, you are not quite the thing.
- Then your adored one, one evening, condescends to write to you...!
That evening,... - you go back again to the dazzling cafes,
You ask for beer or for lemonade...
- You are not really serious when you are seventeen
And there are green lime trees on the promenade...
Original French
Roman
I
On n'est pas sérieux, quand on a dix-sept ans.
- Un beau soir, foin des bocks et de la limonade,
Des cafés tapageurs aux lustres éclatants !
- On va sous les tilleuls verts de la promenade.
Les tilleuls sentent bon dans les bons soirs de juin !
L'air est parfois si doux, qu'on ferme la paupière ;
Le vent chargé de bruits - la ville n'est pas loin -
A des parfums de vigne et des parfums de bière....
II
-Voilà qu'on aperçoit un tout petit chiffon
D'azur sombre, encadré d'une petite branche,
Piqué d'une mauvaise étoile, qui se fond
Avec de doux frissons, petite et toute blanche...
Nuit de juin ! Dix-sept ans ! - On se laisse griser.
La sève est du champagne et vous monte à la tête...
On divague ; on se sent aux lèvres un baiser
Qui palpite là, comme une petite bête....
III
Le coeur fou Robinsonne à travers les romans,
Lorsque, dans la clarté d'un pâle réverbère,
Passe une demoiselle aux petits airs charmants,
Sous l'ombre du faux col effrayant de son père...
Et, comme elle vous trouve immensément naïf,
Tout en faisant trotter ses petites bottines,
Elle se tourne, alerte et d'un mouvement vif....
- Sur vos lèvres alors meurent les cavatines...
IV
Vous êtes amoureux. Loué jusqu'au mois d'août.
Vous êtes amoureux. - Vos sonnets La font rire.
Tous vos amis s'en vont, vous êtes mauvais goût.
- Puis l'adorée, un soir, a daigné vous écrire...!
- Ce soir-là,... - vous rentrez aux cafés éclatants,
Vous demandez des bocks ou de la limonade..
- On n'est pas sérieux, quand on a dix-sept ans
Et qu'on a des tilleuls verts sur la promenade.
Of old, on her terrace at evening
...not here...in some long-gone kingdom
O, folded close to her breast!...
--our gaze dwelt wide on the blackness
(was it trees? or a shadowy passion
the pain of an old-world longing
that it sobb'd, that it swell'd, that it shrank?)
--the gloom of the forest
blurr'd soft on the skirt of the night-skies
that shut in our lonely world.
...not here...in some long-gone world...
close-lock'd in that passionate arm-clasp
no word did we utter, we stirr'd not:
the silence of Death, or of Love...
only, round and over us
that tearless infinite yearning
and the Night with her spread wings rustling
folding us with the stars.
...not here...in some long-gone kingdom
of old, on her terrace at evening
O, folded close to her heart!...
To clasp you now and feel your head close-pressed,
Scented and warm against my beating breast;
To whisper soft and quivering your name,
And drink the passion burning in your frame;
To lie at full length, taut, with cheek to cheek,
And tease your mouth with kisses till you speak
Love words, mad words, dream words, sweet senseless words,
Melodious like notes of mating birds;
To hear you ask if I shall love always,
And myself answer: Till the end of days;
To feel your easeful sigh of happiness
When on your trembling lips I murmur: Yes;
It is so sweet. We know it is not true.
What matters it? The night must shed her dew.
We know it is not true, but it is sweet --
The poem with this music is complete.
the bud firmly holds
the ecstasy of the kiss,
in fast bloom
it doesn’t want to miss.
but in the bloom
hug-warmth’s
new heights are told,
bliss within
to the world is unfold.
the Nature is filled
with romance all around,
the parallel of its blissful romance
is nowhere found.
Romance, who loves to nod and sing,
With drowsy head and folded wing,
Among the green leaves as they shake
Far down within some shadowy lake,
To me a painted paroquet
Hath been- a most familiar bird-
Taught me my alphabet to say-
To lisp my very earliest word
While in the wild wood I did lie,
A child- with a most knowing eye.
Of late, eternal Condor years
So shake the very Heaven on high
With tumult as they thunder by,
I have no time for idle cares
Through gazing on the unquiet sky.
And when an hour with calmer wings
Its down upon my spirit flings-
That little time with lyre and rhyme
To while away- forbidden things!
My heart would feel to be a crime
Unless it trembled with the strings.
Huge amount of intensity,
Physically, emotionally and personally,
Surprisingly, makes more romantic
A very caring, takes care of even little things
And makes all difference being romance.
Intensity may be the little thing
Matters a lot and creates
Depth of understanding, caring, love and
Intense love making.
We talk forever day and night
Embrace in the insipid moonlight
It’s impossible to deny fate
Our passion for each other is on a roll
Our feelings are so hard to control
It’s impossible to deny fate
You and me we have our struggles
But what couples don’t have troubles?
It’s impossible to deny fate
When I express my feelings everything I say is true
True love isn’t just kissing all over you
It’s impossible to deny fate
Like paper always sticks to glue
I will always be there for you
It’s impossible to deny fate
I love you because of your heart
My love for you is off the charts
It’s impossible to deny fate
Being with you is a blessing
Laughing together, singing songs, caressing
It’s impossible to deny fate
I want to stay with you for years
I’ve sworn that I will never drink beer
After the wedding we pull the car in and lock the gate
It’s impossible to deny fate
Yo me estava reposando,
durmiendo como solía.
Recordé, triste, llorando
con gran pena que sentía.
Levantéme muy sin tiento
de la cama en que dormía,
cercado de pensamiento,
que valer no me podía.
Mi passión era tan fuerte
que de mí yo no sabía.
Conmigo estava la Muerte
por tenerme compañía.
Lo que más me fatigava
no era porque muría,
mas era porque dexava
de servir a quien servía.
Servía yo una señora
que más que a mí la quería,
y ella fue la causadora
de mi mal sin mejoría.
La media noche passada,
ya que era cerca el día,
salíme de mi posada
por ver si descansaría.
Fui para donde morava
aquella que más quería,
por quien yo triste penava,
mas ella no parecía.
Andando todo turbado
con las ansias que tenía,
vi venir a mi Cuidado
dando bozes, y dezía:
«Si dormís, linda señora,
recordad por cortesía,
pues que fuestes causadora
de la desventura mía.
Remediad mi gran tristura,
satisfazed mi porfía,
porque si falta ventura
del todo me perdería.»
Y con mis ojos llorosos,
un triste llanto hazía
con sospiros congoxosos,
y nadie lo parecía.
En estas cuitas estando,
como vi que esclarecía,
a mi casa sospirando
me bolví sin alegría.
I WILL make you brooches and toys for your delight
Of bird-song at morning and star-shine at night.
I will make a palace fit for you and me,
Of green days in forests and blue days at sea.
I will make my kitchen, and you shall keep your room,
Where white flows the river and bright blows the broom,
And you shall wash your linen and keep your body white
In rainfall at morning and dewfall at night.
And this shall be for music when no one else is near,
The fine song for singing, the rare song to hear!
That only I remember, that only you admire,
Of the broad road that stretches and the roadside fire.
Romance the charming wine of love
Emollient lubricant of heart
To incept and pulsate
The loving beats in the life
Its smell even could winsome thoughts
With amiable fragrance of jasmine
Which furl one over and over
To flame poignant in its fire
It takes one to a lofty locus
And levitate to those blinking stars
And it twines both together
As chords of life to sing together
But beware of its resilient style
Which hustle you to mundane desert
To reap the barren insensible mind
With the paralyzed numb dumb heart
Oh! Dear! Tie it tight, the chord of love
With charming fragrance of romance
Lest it will play a twang
To portray farce in kaput fort
Sandhya
'Talk of pluck!' pursued the Sailor,
Set at euchre on his elbow,
'I was on the wharf at Charleston,
Just ashore from off the runner.
'It was grey and dirty weather,
And I heard a drum go rolling,
Rub-a-dubbing in the distance,
Awful dour-like and defiant.
'In and out among the cotton,
Mud, and chains, and stores, and anchors,
Tramped a squad of battered scarecrows -
Poor old Dixie's bottom dollar!
'Some had shoes, but all had rifles,
Them that wasn't bald was beardless,
And the drum was rolling Dixie,
And they stepped to it like men, sir!
'Rags and tatters, belts and bayonets,
On they swung, the drum a-rolling,
Mum and sour. It looked like fighting,
And they meant it too, by thunder!'
‘ROMANCE POINT’ [1]
esspeecee … [06.10.08.]
Questing the fragrance
Of dews,
On the sod
Where you left
Foot print.
Blind I’m
To view,
But will
Find that fragrance
Thro’ my
Acute sense.
But –
Alas!
You’ve lastly
Effaced
To take back
With you.
Oh spry
Dear,
Thanks for
Left fragrance
Of sod.
Happy I’m
That grass carpet
And nascent leaf blades
Whispering-
‘tis is your
‘Romance Point’.
Copyright reserved by the Author
ROMANCE POINT [2]
esspeecee. …11.10.08.
Lending from
Setting sun,
The red-
To color your feet. …. [1]
Staring at stars
For luxe lux,
To illuminate
Your feet…..[2]
Asking the sky
To drip
Gentle dew drops,
To sodden-
Your feet.... [3]
Whispering to flower
To air the fragrance,
To en-fragrant-
Your feet.... [4]
Put ankle bangle
To hear,
Tinkling euphony-
Of your fugitive feet.... [5]
Oh,
Sparkling diamond,
As ring
Decorate,
Your tapering toes
I want to.... [6]
Lay down
My heart,
To be in synchrony
With your wavy stepping.... [7]
Will:
Dab my quivering ‘lip-marks’,
Utmostly embrace,
Bosom in the aroma,
Of your:
Intolerably soft feet
‘tis my-
Romance Point.... [8]
Copyright reserved by the Author
ROMANCE POINT [3]
esspeecee … [12.10.08]
O floral bed
En-bosom the,
Foot marks indelibly
-of her.
Bohemian me
Know well,
She’ll efface
Like a
Spry shadow.
Her balmy
Coquette feet will
Gush out,
But to -
Dumfound me
Achefully.
O floral bed
En-bosom foot prints,
My-
Romance Point
For an image
In my sterile cache.
End up
Game of romance
Before the mellow light
O you not
My Romance Point.
Copyright reserved by the Author
.
Tipped toe-ly
Dusk droops,
Plays with
Naive teen.
She fills up
Stoic beech wood
With rustle and sigh.
Ripples whisper
O’ teen
Do you hear: Love?
From moon.
Teen bewildered
Say what; She..?
Love had pored, she-
On Romance Point,
Fragrance smeared
Feet of
Her…?
She quests for!
ROMANCE POINT [5]
esspeecee …11.06.09.
Why browse
Thro’ eyes
Why not open file?
And save as
‘Save as…’
Cut and paste
You can do
But it’s not
Aye: To love.
Copy and paste
Still not
Aye: To love.
Open the file
Fiddle and fondle me
I can’t be hidden file
If saved as
‘Save as…’
Browsing thro’ heart,
Bring me near
To your
Tremulous heart
I’ll be with you too in
Choreographic synchrony.
.
Make a virus check
To prevent goofing
Love is:
Dewy drops of rapture
Get coalesced effortlessly.
When saved
Send the love
To me by
E-mail with correct ID.
I’ll save
It, as save as…
No, save into
My breast silhouette
Where plays cosmetic
Red, blue, green &c
A designer
Canopy of
My Romance Point.
Copyright reserved by the Author
.
.
Green, how I want you green.
Green wind. Green branches.
The ship out on the sea
and the horse on the mountain.
With the shade around her waist
she dreams on her balcony,
green flesh, her hair green,
with eyes of cold silver.
Green, how I want you green.
Under the gypsy moon,
all things are watching her
and she cannot see them.
Green, how I want you green.
Big hoarfrost stars
come with the fish of shadow
that opens the road of dawn.
The fig tree rubs its wind
with the sandpaper of its branches,
and the forest, cunning cat,
bristles its brittle fibers.
But who will come? And from where?
She is still on her balcony
green flesh, her hair green,
dreaming in the bitter sea.
--My friend, I want to trade
my horse for her house,
my saddle for her mirror,
my knife for her blanket.
My friend, I come bleeding
from the gates of Cabra.
--If it were possible, my boy,
I'd help you fix that trade.
But now I am not I,
nor is my house now my house.
--My friend, I want to die
decently in my bed.
Of iron, if that's possible,
with blankets of fine chambray.
Don't you see the wound I have
from my chest up to my throat?
--Your white shirt has grown
thirsy dark brown roses.
Your blood oozes and flees a
round the corners of your sash.
But now I am not I,
nor is my house now my house.
--Let me climb up, at least,
up to the high balconies;
Let me climb up! Let me,
up to the green balconies.
Railings of the moon
through which the water rumbles.
Now the two friends climb up,
up to the high balconies.
Leaving a trail of blood.
Leaving a trail of teardrops.
Tin bell vines
were trembling on the roofs.
A thousand crystal tambourines
struck at the dawn light.
Green, how I want you green,
green wind, green branches.
The two friends climbed up.
The stiff wind left
in their mouths, a strange taste
of bile, of mint, and of basil
My friend, where is she--tell me--
where is your bitter girl?
How many times she waited for you!
How many times would she wait for you,
cool face, black hair,
on this green balcony!
Over the mouth of the cistern
the gypsy girl was swinging,
green flesh, her hair green,
with eyes of cold silver.
An icicle of moon
holds her up above the water.
The night became intimate
like a little plaza.
Drunken 'Guardias Civiles'
were pounding on the door.
Green, how I want you green.
Green wind. Green branches.
The ship out on the sea.
And the horse on the mountain.
Translated by William Logan
Original Spanish
Verde que te quiero verde.
Verde viento.  Verdes ramas.
El barco sobre la mar
y el caballo en la montaña.
Con la sombra en la cintura
ella sueña en sus baranda,
verde carne, pelo verde,
con ojos de fría plata.
Verde que te quiero verde.
Bajo la luna gitana,
las cosas la están mirando
y ella no puede mirarlas.
Verde que te quiero verde.
Grandes estrellas de escarcha,
vienen con el pez de sombra
que abre el camino del alba.
La higuera frota su viento
con la lija de sus ramas,
y el monte, gato garduño,
eriza sus pitas agrias.
¿Pero quién vendrá?  ¿Y por dónde...?
Ella sigue en su baranda,
verde carne, pelo verde,
soñando en la mar amarga.
Compadre, quiero cambiar
mi caballo por su casa,
mi montura por su espejo,
mi cuchillo por su manta.
Compadre, vengo sangrando,
desde los puertos de Cabra.
Si yo pudiera, mocito,
este trato se cerraba.
Pero yo ya no soy yo,
Ni mi casa es ya mi casa.
Compadre, quiero morir
decentemente en mi cama.
De acero, si puede ser,
con las sábanas de holanda.
¿No ves la herida que tengo
desde el pecho a la garganta?
Trescientas rosas morenas
lleva tu pechera blanca.
Tu sangre rezuma y huele
alrededor de tu faja.
Pero yo ya no soy yo.
Ni mi casa es ya mi casa.
Dejadme subir al menos
hasta las altas barandas,
¡dejadme subir!, dejadme
hasta las verdes barandas.
Barandales de la luna
por donde retumba el agua.
Ya suben los dos compadres
hacia las altas barandas.
Dejando un rastro de sangre.
Dejando un rastro de lágrimas.
Temblaban en los tejados
farolillos de hojalata.
Mil panderos de cristal,
herían la madrugada.
Verde que te quiero verde,
verde viento, verdes ramas.
Los dos compadres subieron.
El largo viento, dejaba
en la boca un raro gusto
de hiel, de menta y de albahaca.
¡Compadre!  ¿Dónde está, dime?
¿Dónde está tu niña amarga?
¡Cuántas veces te esperó!
¡Cuántas veces te esperara,
cara fresca, negro pelo,
en esta verde baranda!
Sobre el rostro del aljibe
se mecía la gitana.
Verde carne, pelo verde,
con ojos de fría plata.
Un carábano de luna
la sostiene sobre el agua.
La noche se puso íntima
como una pequeña plaza.
Guardias civiles borrachos
en la puerta golpeaban.
The era of romance, its beginning.
Dice used by the players was startling
In the game of numbers on chess board
To tilt the power house and it's record.
Hottest commodity than gem or platinum
Turncoats were costliest in the millenium.
A keep of treachery had become wisdom
Criminalization of politics was in blossum.
Ethics, morality became out of fashion,
New tricks were evolved by imagination.
Merit and efficiency were then displaced.
Money and muscle power to them replaced.
No one can fool all for all the times,
Players had forgotten this truth supreme.
Poet:  Ratnakar D  Mandlik
Touch of rain drops makes me giggle.
like a lover, it tickle.
and makes me laugh and wiggle
rain touches me with a bliss.
like a sweet and lovely kiss.
when in rain i get drench.
like lover my clothes clench.
its like someone dear
.
who cuddle close and near.
the cold tender breeze.
makes me shiver and freeze.
still its better than a hot mug.
or a tight warm hug
.
rain makes me romantic.
and i feel naively idyllic.
Unlike lingerie that’s strictly for fantasy,
Look beneath at the Secrets.
Lace faces have Faux Vintage.
French lingerie that captures feminine.
Chic look and can also be worn all day.
Women who like to feel beautiful under their clothes.
You are the ultimate designers of these looks.
Tease him Nylon Stocking and have the exclusive.
Shapewear legs that go up to the clouds.
Waiting you will find these woman's his world.
Nylon stockings and matchless pantyhose.
Seamed Nylon Stockings.
Riding the elevator reinforced Heel and Toe.
Sheer to the Waist Panties.
Sheer Heel and Toe Nylon Stockings and high thighs.
In the Bra both twins he must carry.
Curvy Bras, stitch bullet bras, .
Push-up bras, strapless bras
and fish hooked long line bras with eyes coordinating.
Garter Belts and transparent girdles.
With a twist to his sleep.
Your salon Babydolls and shrimp and Robes.
Woman that will help him keep your romance alive!
I'm hopelessly in love, every much a part of you.
I'm hopeless in love, very much apart from you.
I had your heart clenched in my hand,
I let it slip like gritty, shifty grains of sand.
I let your heart get torn apart
Comforted by another's arms.
Drifting in another's charms
while I lay lonely, torn apart.
Our endless love was beauty, a dream to be extant.
Now my fault alas folly; it's altering to extinct.
I always lived on hope,
never gave up on a chance.
Your words the stamp of denouement...
'she will get my romance'
1903
I watch you as coldly as never,
But can’t keep this pine in my breast,
Today sun’s in smoke of havens,
And sadness makes heavy a breath.
I know, I breed just a fable –
At least, trust to fables, - but you?…
Like needless oblations, in alleys,
Leaves fall in the mournful hue.
We’re joined by the fate that was blinded:
Would God join us ‘there’ – behind sky?…
Don’t laugh, if in spring days, delighted,
You’ll step on the lives that here die.
'On the east coast, towards Tunis, the Moors still preserve the key of their ancestors' houses in Spain; to which country they still express the hopes of one day returning and again planting the crescent on the ancient walls of the Alhambra.'
—Scott's
Travels in Morocco and Algiers.
'Is Spain cloven in such a manner as to want closing?'
Sancho Panza in
Don Quixote
The Moor leans on his cushion,
With the pipe between his lips;
And still at frequent intervals
The sweet sherbét he sips;
But, spite of lulling vapor
And the sober cooling cup,
The spirit of the swarthy Moor
Is fiercely kindling up!
One hand is on his pistol,
On its ornamented stock,
While his finger feels the trigger
And is busy with the lock—
The other seeks his ataghan,
And clasps its jewell'd hilt—
Oh! much of gore in days of yore
That crooked blade has spilt!
His brows are knit, his eyes of jet
In vivid blackness roll,
And gleam with fatal flashes
Like the fire-damp of the coal;
His jaws are set, and through his teeth
He draws a savage breath,
As if about to raise the shout
Of Victory or Death!
For why? the last Zebeck that came
And moor'd within the Mole,
Such tidings unto Tunis brought
As stir his very soul—
The cruel jar of civil war,
The sad and stormy reign,
That blackens like a thunder cloud
The sunny land of Spain!
No strife of glorious Chivalry,
For honor's gain or loss,
Nor yet that ancient rivalry,
The Crescent with the Cross.
No charge of gallant Paladins
On Moslems stern and stanch;
But Christians shedding Christian blood
Beneath the olive's branch!
A war of horrid parricide,
And brother killing brother;
Yea, like to 'dogs and sons of dogs'
That worry one another.
But let them bite and tear and fight,
The more the Kaffers slay,
The sooner Hagar's swarming sons
Shall make the land a prey!
The sooner shall the Moor behold
Th' Alhambra's pile again;
And those who pined in Barbary
Shall shout for joy in Spain—
The sooner shall the Crescent wave
On dear Granada's walls:
And proud Mohammed Ali sit
Within his fathers halls!
'Alla-il-alla!' tiger-like
Up springs the swarthy Moor,
And, with a wide and hasty stride,
Steps o'er the marble floor;
Across the hall, till from the wall,
Where such quaint patterns be,
With eager hand he snatches down
And old and massive Key!
A massive Key of curious shape,
And dark with dirt and rust,
And well three weary centuries
The metal might encrust!
For since the King Boabdil fell
Before the native stock,
That ancient Key, so quaint to see,
Hath never been in lock.
Brought over by the Saracens
Who fled accross the main,
A token of the secret hope
Of going back again;
From race to race, from hand to hand,
From house to house it pass'd;
O will it ever, ever ope
The Palace gate at last?
Three hundred years and fifty-two
On post and wall it hung—
Three hundred years and fifty-two
A dream to old and young;
But now a brighter destiny
The Prophet's will accords:
The time is come to scour the rust,
And lubricate the wards.
For should the Moor with sword and lance
At Algesiras land,
Where is the bold Bernardo now
Their progress to withstand?
To Burgos should the Moslem come,
Where is the noble Cid
Five royal crowns to topple down
As gallant Diaz did?
Hath Xeres any Pounder now,
When other weapons fail,
With club to thrash invaders rash,
Like barley with a flail?
Hath Seville any Perez still,
To lay his clusters low,
And ride with seven turbans green
Around his saddle-bow?
No! never more shall Europe see
Such Heroes brave and bold,
Such Valor, Faith and Loyalty,
As used to shine of old!
No longer to one battle cry
United Spaniards run,
And with their thronging spears uphold
The Virgin and her Son!
From Cadiz Bay to rough Biscay
Internal discord dwells,
And Barcelona bears the scars
Of Spanish shot and shells.
The fleets decline, the merchants pine
For want of foreign trade;
And gold is scant; and Alicante
Is seal'd by strict blockade!
The loyal fly, and Valor falls,
Opposed by court intrigue;
But treachery and traitors thrive,
Upheld by foreign league;
While factions seeking private ends
By turns usurping reign—
Well may the dreaming, scheming Moor
Exulting point to Spain!
Well may he cleanse the rusty Key
With Afric sand and oil,
And hope an Andalusian home
Shall recompense the toil!
Well may he swear the Moorish spear
Through wild Castile shall sweep,
And where the Catalonian sowed
The Saracen shall reap!
Well may he vow to spurn the Cross
Beneath the Arab hoof,
And plant the Crescent yet again
Above th' Alhambra's roof—
When those from whom St. Jago's name
In chorus once arose,
Are shouting Faction's battle-cries,
And Spain forgets to 'Close!'
Well may he swear his ataghan
Shall rout the traitor swarm,
And carve them into Arabesques
That show no human form—
The blame be theirs, whose bloody feuds
Invite the savage Moor,
And tempt him with the ancient Key
To seek the ancient door!
You rule the kingdom of hopes & dreams
with your tales of romance you carefully weave
And then when it seems there could be no more
another book opens & all are in awe.
Who could be the queen of your heart
every girl longs to fill the part
To bring to life such a fantasy
Being so well loved is pure ecstacy
I'LL tell you a story ; but pass the 'jack',
And let us make merry to-night, my men.
Aye, those were the days when my beard was black—
I like to remember them now and then—
Then Miles was living, and Cuthbert there,
On his lip was never a sign of down ;
But I carry about some braided hair,
That has not yet changed from the glossy brown
That it show'd the day when I broke the heart
Of that bravest of destriers, 'Britomarte.'
Sir Hugh was slain (may his soul find grace !)
In the fray that was neither lost nor won
At Edgehill—then to St. Hubert's Chase
Lord Goring despatch'd a garrison—
But men and horses were ill to spare,
And ere long the soldiers were shifted fast.
As for me, I never was quartered there
Till Marston Moor had been lost ; at last,
As luck would have it, alone, and late
In the night, I rode to the northern gate.
I thought, as I pass'd through the moonlit park,
On the boyish days I used to spend
In the halls of the knight lying stiff and stark—
Thought on his lady, my father's friend
(Mine, too, in spite of my sinister bar,
But with that my story has naught to do)—
She died the winter before the war—
Died giving birth to the baby Hugh.
He pass'd ere the green leaves clothed the bough,
And the orphan girl was the heiress now.
When I was a rude and a reckless boy,
And she a brave and a beautiful child,
I was her page, her playmate, her toy—
I have crown'd her hair with the field-flowers wild
Cowslip and crowfoot and colt's-foot bright—
I have carried her miles when the woods were wet,
I have read her romances of dame and knight ;
She was my princess, my pride, my pet.
There was then this proverb us twain between,
For the glory of God and of Gwendoline.
She had grown to a maiden wonderful fair,
But for years I had scarcely seen her face.
Now, with troopers Holdsworth, Huntly, and Clare,
Old Miles kept guard at St. Hubert's Chase,
And the chatelaine was a Mistress Ruth,
Sir Hugh's half-sister, an ancient dame,
But a mettlesome soul had she forsooth,
As she show'd when the time of her trial came.
I bore despatches to Miles and to her
To warn them against the bands of Kerr.
And mine would have been a perilous ride
With the rebel horsemen—we knew not where
They were scattered over that country side,—
If it had not been for my brave brown mare.
She was iron-sinew'd and satin-skinn'd,
Ribb'd like a drum and limb'd like a deer,
Fierce as the fire and fleet as the wind—
There was nothing she couldn't climb or clear—
Rich lords had vex'd me, in vain, to part
For their gold and silver, with Britomarte.
Next morn we muster'd scarce half a score
With the serving men, who were poorly arm'd
Five soldiers, counting myself, no more,
And a culverin, which might well have harm'd
Us, had we used it, but not our foes,
When, with horses and foot, to our doors they came,
And a psalm-singer summon'd us (through his nose),
And deliver'd—'This, in the people's name,
Unto whoso holdeth this fortress here,
Surrender ! or bide the siege—John Kerr.'
'Twas a mansion built in a style too new,
A castle by courtesy, he lied
Who called it a fortress—yet, 'tis true,
It had been indifferently fortified—
We were well provided with bolt and bar—
And while I hurried to place our men,
Old Miles was call'd to a council of war
With Mistress Ruth and with her, and when
They had argued loudly and long, those three,
They sent, as a last resource, for me.
In the chair of state sat erect Dame Ruth ;
She had cast aside her embroidery ;
She had been a beauty, they say, in her youth,
There was much fierce fire in her bold black eye.
'Am I deceived in you both ?' quoth she.
'If one spark of her father's spirit lives
In this girl here—so, this Leigh, Ralph Leigh,
Let us hear what counsel the springald gives.'
Then I stammer'd, somewhat taken aback—
(Simon, you ale-swiller, pass the 'jack').
The dame wax'd hotter—'Speak out, lad, say,
Must we fall in that canting caitiff's power ?
Shall we yield to a knave and a turncoat ? Nay,
I had liever leap from our topmost tower.
For a while we can surely await relief ;
Our walls are high and our doors are strong.'
This Kerr was indeed a canting thief—
I know not rightly, some private wrong
He had done Sir Hugh, but I know this much,
Traitor or turncoat he suffer'd as such.
Quoth Miles—'Enough ! your will shall be done ;
Relief may arrive by the merest chance,
But your house ere dusk will be lost and won ;
They have got three pieces of ordnance.'
Then I cried, 'Lord Guy, with four troops of horse,
Even now is biding at Westbrooke town ;
If a rider could break through the rebel force
He would bring relief ere the sun goes down
Through the postern door could I make one dart
I could baffle them all upon Britomarte.'
Miles mutter'd 'Madness !' Dame Ruth look'd grave,
Said, 'True, though we cannot keep one hour
The courtyard, no, nor the stables save,
They will have to batter piecemeal the tower,
And thus——' But suddenly she halted there.
With a shining hand on my shoulder laid,
Stood Gwendoline.  She had left her chair,
And, 'Nay, if it needs must be done,' she said,
'Ralph Leigh will gladly do it, I ween,
For the glory of God and of Gwendoline.'
I had undertaken a heavier task
For a lighter word.  I saddled with care,
Nor cumber'd myself with corselet nor casque
(Being loth to burden the brave brown mare).
Young Clare kept watch on the wall—he cried,
'Now, haste, Ralph ! this is the time to seize ;
The rebels are round us on every side,
But here they straggle by twos and threes.'
Then out I led her, and up I sprung,
And the postern door on its hinges swung.
I had drawn this sword—you may draw it and feel,
For this is the blade that I bore that day—
There's a notch even now on the long grey steel,
A nick that has never been rasp'd away.
I bow'd my head and I buried my spurs,
One bound brought the gliding green beneath ;
I could tell by her back-flung, flatten'd ears
She had fairly taken the bit in her teeth—
(What, Jack, have you drain'd your namesake dry,
Left nothing to quench the thirst of a fly ?)
These things are done, and are done with, lad,
In far less time than your talker tells;
The sward with their hoof-strokes shook like mad,
And rang with their carbines and petronels ;
And they shouted, 'Cross him and cut him off,'
'Surround him,' 'Seize him,' 'Capture the clown,
Or kill him,' 'Shall he escape to scoff
In your faces ?' 'Shoot him or cut him down.'
And their bullets whistled on every side :
Many were near us and more were wide.
Not a bullet told upon Britomarte ;
Suddenly snorting, she launched along ;
So the osprey dives where the seagulls dart,
So the falcon swoops where the kestrels throng ;
And full in my front one pistol flash'd,
And right in my path their sergeant got.
How are jack-boots jarr'd, how are stirrups clash'd,
While the mare like a meteor past him shot ;
But I clove his skull with a backstroke clean,
For the glory of God and of Gwendoline.
And as one whom the fierce wind storms in the face
With spikes of hail and with splinters of rain,
I, while we fled through St. Hubert's Chase,
Bent till my cheek was amongst her mane.
To the north full a league of the deer-park lay,
Smooth, springy turf, and she fairly flew,
And the sound of their hoof-strokes died away,
And their far shots faint in the distance grew.
Loudly I laughed, having won the start,
At the folly of following Britomarte.
They had posted a guard at the northern gate—
Some dozen of pikemen and musketeers.
To the tall park palings I turn'd her straight ;
She veer'd in her flight as the swallow veers.
And some blew matches and some drew swords,
And one of them wildly hurl'd his pike,
But she clear'd by inches the oaken boards,
And she carried me yards beyond the dyke ;
Then gaily over the long green down
We gallop'd, heading for Westbrooke town.
The green down slopes to the great grey moor,
The grey moor sinks to the gleaming Skelt—
Sudden and sullen, and swift and sure,
The whirling water was round my belt.
She breasted the bank with a savage snort,
And a backward glance of her bloodshot eye,
And 'Our Lady of Andover's' flash'd like thought,
And flitted St. Agatha's nunnery,
And the firs at The Ferngrove fled on the right,
And 'Falconer's Tower' on the left took flight.
And over 'The Ravenswold' we raced—
We rounded the hill by 'The Hermit's Well'—
We burst on the Westbrooke Bridge—'What haste ?
What errand ?' shouted the sentinel.
'To Beelzebub with the Brewer's knave !'
'Carolus Rex and he of the Rhine !'
Galloping past him, I got and gave
In the gallop password and countersign,
All soak'd with water and soil'd with mud,
With the sleeve of my jerkin half drench'd in blood.
Now, Heaven be praised that I found him there—
Lord Guy.  He said, having heard my tale,
'Leigh, let my own man look to your mare,
Rest and recruit with our wine and ale ;
But first must our surgeon attend to you ;
You are somewhat shrewdly stricken, no doubt.'
Then he snatched a horn from the wall and blew,
Making 'Boot and Saddle' ring sharply out.
'Have I done good service this day ?' quoth I.
'Then I will ride back in your troop, Lord Guy.'
In the street I heard how the trumpets peal'd,
And I caught the gleam of a morion
From the window—then to the door I reel'd ;
I had lost more blood than I reckon'd upon ;
He eyed me calmly with keen grey eyes—
Stern grey eyes of a steel-blue grey—
Said, 'The wilful man can never be wise,
Nathless the wilful must have his way,'
And he pour'd from a flagon some fiery wine ;
I drain'd it, and straightway strength was mine.
.   .   .   .   .   .   .
I was with them all the way on the brown—
'Guy to the rescue !'  'God and the king !'
We were just in time, for the doors were down ;
And didn't our sword-blades rasp and ring,
And didn't we hew and didn't we hack ?
The sport scarce lasted minutes ten—
(Aye, those were the days when my beard was black ;
I like to remember them now and then).
Though they fought like fiends, we were four to one,
And we captured those that refused to run.
We have not forgotten it, Cuthbert, boy !
That supper scene when the lamps were lit ;
How the women (some of them) sobb'd for joy ;
How the soldiers drank the deeper for it;
How the dame did honours, and Gwendoline,
How grandly she glided into the hall,
How she stoop'd with the grace of a girlish queen,
And kiss'd me gravely before them all ;
And the stern Lord Guy, how gaily he laugh'd,
Till more of his cup was spilt than quaff'd.
Brown Britomarte lay dead in her straw
Next morn—we buried her—brave old girl !
John Kerr, we tried him by martial law,
And we twisted some hemp for the trait'rous churl ;
And she—I met her alone—said she,
'You have risk'd your life, you have lost your mare,
And what can I give in return, Ralph Leigh ?'
I replied, 'One braid of that bright brown hair.'
And with that she bow'd her beautiful head,
'You can take as much as you choose,' she said.
And I took it—it may be, more than enough—
And I shore it rudely, close to the roots.
The wine or wounds may have made me rough,
And men at the bottom are merely brutes.
Three weeks I slept at St. Hubert's Chase ;
When I woke from the fever of wounds and wine
I could scarce believe that the ghastly face
That the glass reflected was really mine.
I sought the hall—where a wedding had been—
The wedding of Guy and of Gwendoline.
The romance of a grizzled old trooper's life
May make you laugh in your sleeves : laugh out,
Lads ; we have most of us seen some strife ;
We have all of us had some sport, no doubt.
I have won some honour and gain'd some gold,
Now that our king returns to his own ;
If the pulses beat slow, if the blood runs cold,
And if friends have faded and loves have flown,
Then the greater reason is ours to drink,
And the more we swallow the less we shall think.
At the battle of Naseby, Miles was slain,
And Huntly sank from his wounds that week ;
We left young Clare upon Worcester plain—
How the 'Ironside' gash'd his girlish cheek.
Aye, strut, and swagger, and ruffle anew,
Gay gallants, now that the war is done !
They fought like fiends (give the fiend his due)—
We fought like fops, it was thus they won.
Holdsworth is living for aught I know,
At least he was living two years ago,
And Guy—Lord Guy—so stately and stern,
He is changed, I met him at Winchester ;
He has grown quite gloomy and taciturn.
Gwendoline !—why do you ask for her ?
Died ! as her mother had died before—
Died giving birth to the baby Guy !
Did my voice shake ? Then am I fool the more.
Sooner or later we all must die ;
But, at least, let us live while we live to-night.
The days may be dark, but the lamps are bright.
For to me the sunlight seems worn and wan :
The sun, he is losing his splendour now—
He can never shine as of old he shone
On her glorious hair and glittering brow.
Ah ! those days that were, when my beard was black,
Now I have only the nights that are.
What, landlord, ho ! bring in haste burnt sack,
And a flask of your fiercest usquebaugh.
You, Cuthbert ! surely you know by heart
The story of her and of Britomarte.
There was a young patrolman who
Had large but tender feet;
They always hurt him badly when
He walked upon his beat.
(He always took them with him when
He walked upon his beat.)
His name was Patrick Casey and
A sweetheart fair had he;
Her face was full of freckles—but
Her name was Kate McGee.
(It was in spite of freckles that
Her name was Kate McGee.)
'Oh, Pat!' she said, 'I’ll wed you when
Promotion comes to you!'
'I’m much-obliged,' he answered, and
'I’ll see what I can do.'
(I may remark he said it thus—
'Oi’ll say phwat Oi kin do.')
So then he bought some new shoes which
Allowed his feet more ease—
They may have been large twelves. Perhaps
Eighteens, or twenty-threes.
(That’s rather large for shoes, I think—
Eighteens or twenty-threes!)
What last they were I don’t know, but
Somehow it seems to me
I’ve heard somewhere they either were
A, B, C, D, or E.
(More likely they were five lasts wide—
A, B plus C, D, E.)
They were the stoutest cowhide that
Could be peeled off a cow.
But he was not promoted
So
Kate wed him anyhow.
(This world is crowded full of Kates
That wed them anyhow.)
The pleasing sweets of spring and summer past,
The falling leaf flies in the sultry blast,
The fields resign their spangling orbs of gold,
The wrinkled grass its silver joys unfold,
Mantling the spreading moor in heavenly white,
Meeting from every hill the ravished sight.
The yellow flag uprears its spotted head,
Hanging regardant o'er its watery bed;
The worthy knight ascends his foaming steed,
Of size uncommon, and no common breed.
His sword of giant make hangs from his belt,
Whose piercing edge his daring foes had felt.
To seek for glory and renown he goes
To scatter death among his trembling foes;
Unnerved by fear, they trembled at his stroke;
So cutting blasts shake the tall mountain oak.
Down in a dark and solitary vale,
Where the curst screech-owl sings her fatal tale,
Where copse and brambles interwoven lie,
Where trees intwining arch the azure sky,
Thither the fate-marked champion bent his way,
By purling streams to lose the heat of day;
A sudden cry assaults his listening ear,
His soul's too noble to admit of fear.-
The cry re-echoes; with his bounding steed
He gropes the way from whence the cries proceed.
The arching trees above obscured the light,
Here 'twas all evening, there eternal night.
And now the rustling leaves and strengthened cry
Bespeaks the cause of the confusion nigh;
Through the thick brake th'astonished champion sees
A weeping damsel bending on her knees:
A ruffian knight would force her to the ground,
But still some small resisting strength she found.
(Women and cats, if you compulsion use,
The pleasure which they die for will refuse.)
The champion thus: 'Desist, discourteous knight,
Why dost thou shamefully misuse thy might?'
With eye contemptuous thus the knight replies,
'Begone! whoever dares my fury dies!'
Down to the ground the champion's gauntlet flew,
'I dare thy fury, and I'll prove it too.'
Like two fierce mountain-boars enraged they fly,
The prancing steeds make Echo rend the sky,
Like a fierce tempest is the bloody fight,
Dead from his lofty steed falls the proud ruffian knight.
The victor, sadly pleased, accosts the dame,
'I will convey you hence to whence you came.'
With look of gratitude the fair replied-
'Content; I in your virtue may confide.
But,' said the fair, as mournful she surveyed
The breathless corse upon the meadow laid,
'May all thy sins from heaven forgiveness find!
May not thy body's crimes affect thy mind!'
The river else doesn’t wholly reign,
But pale-blue ice is drowned now;
And clouds are not blue again,
But sun had drunk the snow out.
Through a half-opened door,
You fret a heart with rustle; though…
You are not else in love; but lor!
You can’t not fall in love tomorrow.
Parent of golden dreams, Romance!
Auspicious Queen of childish joys,
Who lead'st along, in airy dance,
Thy votive train of girls and boys;
At length, in spells no longer bound,
I break the fetters of my youth;
No more I tread thy mystic round,
But leave thy realms for those of Truth.
And yet 'tis hard to quit the dreams
Which haunt the unsuspicious soul,
Where every nymph a goddess seems,
Whose eyes through rays immortal roll;
While Fancy holds her boundless reign,
And all assume a varied hue;
When Virgins seem no longer vain,
And even Woman's smiles are true.
And must we own thee, but a name,
And from thy hall of clouds descend?
Nor find a Sylph in every dame,
A Pylades in every friend?
But leave, at once, thy realms of air i
To mingling bands of fairy elves;
Confess that woman's false as fair,
And friends have feeling for---themselves?
With shame, I own, I've felt thy sway;
Repentant, now thy reign is o'er;
No more thy precepts I obey,
No more on fancied pinions soar;
Fond fool! to love a sparkling eye,
And think that eye to truth was dear;
To trust a passing wanton's sigh,
And melt beneath a wanton's tear!
Romance! disgusted with deceit,
Far from thy motley court I fly,
Where Affectation holds her seat,
And sickly Sensibility;
Whose silly tears can never flow
For any pangs excepting thine;
Who turns aside from real woe,
To steep in dew thy gaudy shrine.
Now join with sable Sympathy,
With cypress crown'd, array'd in weeds,
Who heaves with thee her simple sigh,
Whose breast for every bosom bleeds;
And call thy sylvan female choir,
To mourn a Swain for ever gone,
Who once could glow with equal fire,
But bends not now before thy throne.
Ye genial Nymphs, whose ready tears
On all occasions swiftly flow;
Whose bosoms heave with fancied fears,
With fancied flames and phrenzy glow
Say, will you mourn my absent name,
Apostate from your gentle train
An infant Bard, at least, may claim
From you a sympathetic strain.
Adieu, fond race! a long adieu!
The hour of fate is hovering nigh;
E'en now the gulf appears in view,
Where unlamented you must lie:
Oblivion's blackening lake is seen,
Convuls'd by gales you cannot weather,
Where you, and eke your gentle queen,
Alas! must perish altogether.
Thy face is far from this our war,
Our call and counter-cry,
I shall not find Thee quick and kind,
Nor know Thee till I die,
Enough for me in dreams to see
And touch Thy garments' hem:
Thy feet have trod so near to God
I may not follow them.
Through wantonness if men profess
They weary of Thy parts,
E'en let them die at blasphemy
And perish with their arts;
But we that love, but we that prove
Thine excellence august,
While we adore discover more
Thee perfect, wise, and just.
Since spoken word Man's Spirit stirred
Beyond his belly-need,
What is is Thine of fair design
In thought and craft and deed;
Each stroke aright of toil and fight,
That was and that shall be,
And hope too high, wherefore we die,
Has birth and worth in Thee.
Who holds by Thee hath Heaven in fee
To gild his dross thereby,
And knowledge sure that he endure
A child until he die --
For to make plain that man's disdain
Is but new Beauty's birth --
For to possess in loneliness
The joy of all the earth.
As Thou didst teach all lovers speech
And Life all mystery,
So shalt Thou rule by every school
Till love and longing die,
Who wast or yet the Lights were set,
A whisper in the Void,
Who shalt be sung through planets young
When this is clean destroyed.
Beyond the bounds our staring rounds,
Across the pressing dark,
The children wise of outer skies
Look hitherward and mark
A light that shifts, a glare that drifts,
Rekindling thus and thus,
Not all forlorn, for Thou hast borne
Strange tales to them of us.
Time hath no tide but must abide
The servant of Thy will;
Tide hath no time, for to Thy rhyme
The ranging stars stand still --
Regent of spheres that lock our fears,
Our hopes invisible,
Oh 'twas certes at Thy decrees
We fashioned Heaven and Hell!
Pure Wisdom hath no certain path
That lacks thy morning-eyne,
And captains bold by Thee controlled
Most like to Gods design;
Thou art the Voice to kingly boys
To lift them through the fight,
And Comfortress of Unsuccess,
To give the dead good-night --
A veil to draw 'twixt God His Law
And Man's infirmity,
A shadow kind to dumb and blind
The shambles where we die;
A rule to trick th' arithmetic
Too base of leaguing odds --
The spur of trust, the curb of lust,
Thou handmaid of the Gods!
O Charity, all patiently
Abiding wrack and scaith!
O Faith, that meets ten thousand cheats
Yet drops no jot of faith!
Devil and brute Thou dost transmute
To higher, lordlier show,
Who art in sooth that lovely Truth
The careless angels know!
Thy face is far from this our war,
Our call and counter-cry,
I may not find Thee quick and kind,
Nor know Thee till I die.
Yet may I look with heart unshook
On blow brought home or missed --
Yet may I hear with equal ear
The clarions down the List;
Yet set my lance above mischance
And ride the barriere --
Oh, hit or miss, how little 'tis,
My Lady is not there!
A sapling in a severe drought
what she needs is moisture to survive?
The Ogre shows a goodwill and who crawls
to the scenario for the redress.
But she cannot uproot and how can she abandon
her kith and kin?
She has already mesmerized by his laudable dialects
and does she obey to this Monster? .
She dreams of the fertile soil where she goes to bear flowers
in the next summer.
She bow and stretch her springy hands
to this promiscuous lover
who takes her cunningly to the Utopia.
Yesterday afternoon, while I was walking on Worth Street,
A gust of wind blew my hat off.
I swore, petulantly, but somewhat noisily.
A young woman had been near, walking behind me;
She must have heard me, I thought.
And I was ashamed, and embarrassedly sorry.
So I said to her: "If you heard me, I beg your pardon."
But she gave me a frightened look
And ran across the street,
Seeking a policeman.
So I thought, Why waste five hours trying to versify the incident?
Verse libre would serve her right.
A letter to his love:
Meet me tonight by the water of dreams
In the moonlight ~ this is my plea.
Your charms fuel my longing for romance
Oh how I cling to the beauty of thee.
In love I shall be for eternity
So treasure this heaven and patient be
Often my eyes are moist with tears
As I sift through old pictures and souvenirs.
Let us walk and talk by the water's edge
On the sands down at Cascade Bay.
In the calm of night our hearts may unite
And over the sea we could sail away.
Our love would then be a beautiful song
Caresses adding to passion's fire.
Pure as the morning waters that flow
And as pleasant as lingering desire.
Promise you'll be there ~ to start anew.
I'll hold you close in the old-fashioned way.
By rivers and streams, as moonlight beams
We will add to the memories of yesterday.
Fun of passionate enjoyment of romantic pleasure between
Two beautifully attractive souls is a great fortune for
Them to experience in the life of human world quite rare!
It's a great blessing only rare personalities of good heart
Have in this world full of doubts, taboos and conventions
That prevent two good hearts to live in romantic enjoyment!
Loving life so in romantic pleasure in fun for a brief period
Or a longtime sure here is not in one's hand, but if that
Happens naturally, it is a great boon bestowed on them by God!
The creator of humans decrees all live according to His will;
Love, romance, pleasure and peace are not for all to have in
Life except by the chosen few who have had deep faith in God!
For the ones who are in love of the Universal spiritual energy,
All in world and Nature, perhaps God bestows such a boon indeed!
And where is that poem I sensed in sleep?
It may be caught within a swirling wind and
cannot come to rest, or trapped in the crevice
where two huge boulders lean and cannot break
free, or it may need its deep sleep, stretched out
on dry grass. The poem has its own life, it certainly
knows the hour of its birth, and will arrive
propelled by rhythms of mind and nature in tandem.
Its impulse is always toward revelation.
I wonder what impulse drives me: Do I walk
these grasslands and climb these hills to provoke
the poems whose writing is my familiar fulfillment?
Or do I write poems to justify my ceaseless walking
to no discernible goal? Will it matter if I find
today's poem barely floating on the green slime
of a stagnant pond? Will it be improved if I find it
crowned with solar glory on the high ledge
above a river valley? The poem will ever be
the middle ground between Nature and myself.
And so all things occur in their immediate motions -
grasses, hills, sunlight, my self, the animals,
the unwritten poems, plants and flowers and
the life-pregnant soil, the waters and the swirling air.
All fold together despite their strangeness,
their separateness. And I, the poet of this moment,
imagine how a natural love makes them familiars,
and dream it can last for evermore...
Oh, blessed persuasion! The poem is even now
within my ken! I can be quiet now. It comes apace!
Dreams and imaginations foster romantic mood
Influenced and inspired by beauty of Nature.
Emotion and sentiments occupy romantic life;
Adventure and exploration mark romantic venture;
Rapture and rupture are part of romantic life.
Romance is the essence of love life in the world;
Interest and thrill of romance will never die here;
Otherwise life is monotonous and boring dead weight!
The whole world is just
One romantic dramatic comedy
Horror after another
Each person
That hopeless romantic
Triumphant lowlife, scoundrel,
Angel, model
That we see every day
Every kiss is love
Every loss the worst
Things start to loose their meanings
In this same old romance
Comediatric dramatic horror series
With way to many seasons
Once a hit
Now watched
Out of pity
Waiting for another character
To get killed off
So they can return
To their own romantic
Comedy drama horror life cliché
Hoping one day
The movies won’t be able to say enough
To call it a romantic
Comedy horror drama
Of a life
For love…
I will do anything and everything
I will do all  I am capable of
I will try to do the impossible
If I have to die- I shall
For love
But only for love….
© 2009 Sonya Florentino
I sat down to write
a romantic poem
confessing I love you.
However, I guess I’m not
in a romantic mood today,
as I couldn’t find
anything romantic to say.
The words it seems
have left my head,
which only leaves me
one thing to do,
and that is to go to bed.
27 April 2008
I'd like to write a romantic comedy
in four acts like Will Shakespeare did
Tragedy's not for me, you can see
by the bells and cap I wear
Clad like a court jester I can
dance and caper
with love as my chief motive
I adore outdoor action
the forest of Arden
populated by the likes
of Rosalind and Celia
Phebe and Audrey
daughters and country wenches
I could idealize a heroine
who usually masks herself
as a man, a swain, one
who deceives and is
deceived in turn
I would subject love to great
difficulty before consummation
in the darkest forests of night
'Amor vincit omnia! '
I would not render poetic justice
any oaf of a writer does that
My outcomes would be logical
& necessary -
how the characters act based
on their principles
I would balance characters
good guys over here
villains over there
reconciliation would be easy
in my romantic comedies
All's well that ends well
would be the keynote
struck in all its glory
by spooning lovers
Never mind love's labor
lost in a midsummer night's
dream even though all in all
it may be much ado about
nothing
but that's as I like it!
Sky lamp glints on us
An amorous dusk it was
We're merged with the stars
A romantic
Evening
Just
For the
Two of us
He holds a heart full of romance,
He does not want to miss any chance,
Of displaying his romantic manner,
Before others everywhere.
He never goes frantic,
Since it’s good to be romantic,
With a sound mind and heart,
The things that he never does part.
He believes in love, dreams, and adores nature,
He is emotional, subjective and revolutionary ever.
Sentimental, emotional, great characters love romantic life;
Passionate, engaged and attached they like to live long life;
Fun, entertainment and amusements they have in romance;
Romantic love life these human beings live true to heart ever!
Longing for love they do all to get the hand of sweet heart;
Love, marriages and divorces and love again they try ever!
For the satisfaction of the self they do romance forever here
And live alone ever in life longing for love till the end comes.
Romantic fellows lament about the friends and loves lost in life;
Beginning, middle and end the means followed never the same
Because adventure is the spice and taste of romantic life here;
Many yet live romantic life because the pleasure is exotic ever!
A romantic life is the dream of many a guy and girl since long
Though success is rare failures they are ready to face and die!
Romantic guys
Live according to Nature
Lucky life!
Romantic stories
Say about adventures of lovers
We read!
Romantic lovers
Live in harmony with Nature
All their life!
They also suffer
According to fate in life
Believing in God!
At the end they
Luckily meet with success
To enjoy happiness!
A romantic man
Took his
Girl friend
For dinner
You come in and sit down while looking around
I tell you don’t be afraid just relax for this is your night
I’ve prepared all day for this one perfect night
Topped with music, food, wine and a flickering candle light
We eat, drink, laugh, and talk just for starters
I began to gaze into your stars stolen from the sky eyes
As you lay in my arms looking up at me in utter surprised
I stand you up and slowly walk you into my room
I began to undress you piece by piece
While the aroma of the room puts you at ease
I tell you to lie down flat on your stomach
Then your fantasy's and fascinations’ begin to run wild
Now I have a strong appetite for your love and I want it now
Yet the moment is not now so I tell myself to slow down
So I begin giving you a full body massage
Not just any massage I mean really caressing your every curve
Tonight I’m your servant and I’m ready to serve
I smell and inhale a deep breath of air from your hair
I slowly and passionfully kiss the back of your neck
As I go down your body, kissing alot and not missing a spot
You moan in acceptance and squirm in the sheets
I roll you over in a burst of excitement and delightment
I admire your body in its full entirety
For a second I pause, A body so beautiful even with flaws
I complete the front of you the same way I did your back
Paying close attention to areas that I need not mention
Your body begins to shiver and I know what that means
So I continue to go at it until you and your body screams
I can feel you blood pulsating as I slowly raise up
You whisper in my ear that you are ready to feel me
I waste no time because I'm ready to feel you to
A lovely feel of wetness and warmth as I slide into you
As we engage in this overwhelming love making
I hope you know my body is yours for the taking
our minds escapes this physical world to a place all of our own
We try all the position our little nympho minds can ponder
We are dripping wet so full of sweat
You have climaxed many of times
Then you tell me your ready for mines
Not wanted this to stop but I feel I have no choice
I feel you shiver and I join in the fun and now were done
Slowly this saga has come to a end
I hold you tight as we drift off to sleep
I tell you I love you and kiss you good night...
Daniel Chapman
Shall I just stand and let the eyes drink,
The wine in the petals is shocking pink,
Inhale your aroma and watch your dance,
Join naughty winds in a rainy romance,
Shall I touch you with the lover's lips?
But I know for me aren't nectar sips,
As you are smiling for the butterflies,
The colorful Angels from the skies,
Who is hidden in you, could you speak!
You are soft but dense, you'll never leak.
But the eyes of a lover with a lovely peep,
See Him smiling in your soul so deep
A romantic song I dedicate,
To you from my heart's gate,
Tender love is what I want,
I hope you will certainly grant!
Life seems bleak as the ashes,
If love doesn't colour the mind,
Then even in the midst of many,
Sheer loneliness I find.
A romantic song I dedicate,
To you from my heart's gate,
Tender love is what I want,
I hope you will certainly grant!
Love is what your synonym is,
Your love makes me free,
Hold me ever closer,
Hatred I never want baby.
A romantic song I dedicate,
To you from my heart's gate,
Tender love is what I want,
I hope you will certainly grant!
A Romantic (Translated)
You can see the house, or what was
A house, there, in the field that was a field
When rail, not barbed-wire fences made it one.
I suppose there's hardly one plank nailed
To another now, but picture it a house.
(Yes, there are the decaying remains of a
shack in the field he speaks of.)
If you ask about these parts you may yet find
A few who know the names of those who built
The place to keep fire in and water out.
(No, the last man who knew the family's
name died, with tubes in his nose and arms,
in a nursing home eight years ago without
thinking the knowledge worth passing on.)
The husband abandoned the city's complications
And brought his bride west to find a simpler way.
(He fled creditors and maintained a low
profile in the wilderness.)
She, though not comely, was beautiful
In her devotion, and followed without question.
(She was scarred by a pox and never lived
to be as old as she looked.  When the move
came she cried for weeks, but would not
compound the fault of marrying a no-good
by leaving him.)
In their new woodland home their love
(his lack of other diversion)
brought forth six strong children
(And four miscarriages and two who died
in their first year)
who early on learned
The simple ways of their parents, the hearth
And field being classrooms for all
They would ever know of life, or need to know.
(They were all put to work at the age of three
and couldn't be spared for school.)
They were raised with strictness tempered with love,
And taught right from wrong by a firm hand.
(If their father loved them he never said it,
but when drunk would reward a perceived wrong
with a strap.  Cost one boy an eye.)
And as they became men and women
Each in his own time set out on his own.
(As the father was bent and old by forty and
began losing his grip, they left.  Two in
one night, together, without a word.)
To find lives much like their elders had found.
(Only one of them lived past forty-eight.)
Their descendants, numerous in the area today,
Look back on them with reverence and wonder.
(There are in dresser drawers scattered about the
county, unidentified pictures of people
thought to have been kin.)
On such a cloudy day why you are far away?
Lightning is writing in sky what I want to say
The cloudy sky is like my gloomy face
The thunderbolts are showing my distress
The raindrops are like my sorrowful tears
My soul is on your way like pioneers
The murmur of the leaves is like my whisper
Please meet me in such a romantic weather
A pre marriage courtship is a lovely adventure,
Being attracted to beauty, playing hides and seeks,
Waiting for hours on the road opposite to a bedroom,
On the first floor just to have a glimpse of a teen aged girl,
Chasing that girl on a bicycle up to a girls college,
Where one could not get in and waiting for her,
Outside the college till the bells announced,
She’s about to come out and then chasing once again,
Until she got in the gates of her lovely home!
Regretted holidays for missing the routine!
What is it, foolishness or an adventure?
Is it merely a call of nature?
It might be foolishness but when responded,
By the eyes of a sweet and lovely nice girl,
An element enters in this wild foolishness,
An element that softens the stones of hearts,
And the adventure when blended by love,
What else it is, other than romance,
What a life is that without a romance!
A duty imposed for just to reproduce!
Stealing a moment to meet somewhere outside,
Be a windy evening of a hot summer noon,
Or a sunny noon of a cold foggy morning,
A moonlit night on the bank of a river,
In the pleasant rains with roses and jasmines,
To be wet in love and to come back in senses,
Before t’s too much with the dreams of future,
Gripping and controlling the call of nature,
Without all that the life remains incomplete,
Sweet memories we need in the icy old age!
Bitter realities of life when kill the adventure,
Adventure goes in coma but love never dies,
Understanding each other, accepting each other,
With the weaknesses exposed after marriage,
Changes the nature of love completely,
Compromises are made, sacrifices are made,
When a wife takes care of his childish husband,
She behaves like a stern but loving grandmother,
But the child is not annoyed at all,
He enjoys a carefree lovely nice life,
Ignoring a few painful casual strife,
Three cheers for a beautiful lovely nice wife!
Hostel farewell party on the last day of college
All felt much for departing once and for all sure
Moving to different places to embark on working life
Quit serious from college life romantically enjoyed!
Nostalgia of college life comes to life whenever the
Photos of friends and picnic tours enjoyed are again
Reviewed in loneliness and ends in never to be again
Revived so in the present life quite different ever.!
Thoughts of friends come, but thoughts on present
Crisis and family situation take a lion's share of time
In such a way that those thoughts of friends disappear
Into thin air putting one in the deep mire of tasks!
Days of joyful life spent romantically in the past are
Just as dreams vanish, when we wake from deep sleep ever!
Why you are searching me
among the lillies
You won't find me in the valleys
Don't you feel me honey
I am  in your heart
Just close your eyes and sense me
Yes I am there in your mind
Never divulge to anyone
the romantic moments we spend together
Keep the purity of romance intact
Enjoy this love and sleep tight
Still I am in your dreams
Hug me tight and keep me close
Listen to my sweet song and
You will get those goosebumps
After I
Ruminate,
Debate,
Meditate,
Speculate,
Map it out,
List the pros and cons,
Consult my astrology chart,
Address the uncertainties,
Assess the risks,
Analyze past mistakes,
Evaluate the odds,
Examine his motives,
And simply surrender…
I’ve been known to be
Just as big a fool
As the next person,
In the name of love
she is still a romantic
will love with loyalty
will love with intensity
hopefully
she likes
nice sincere boys
bad boys will break hearts
especially
the innocent
maintaining shards
of innocence
in shy rapture sparkles
in sweet mystery smiles
in soft sincerity sustains
untarnished innocence
an inherent spiritual beauty
purity honesty sincerity simplicity
hopefully she likes
nice true heart sincere boys
bad boys will break desolate hearts
innocence subtle has values intrinsic
a filigree delicate simplicity symmetry
mystic innate mystery of cosmic symphony
I'm lost everytime I look into those eyes.
And yet you never let me peer through your disguise.
You leave my heart in disarray.
Babe...I really don't want to play.
I don't know why we couldn't be...you cut me deep,
like a chainsaw to a tree.
So for all those girls out there with the wrong man,
here I stand.
A bleeding heart, and I feel its all for naught'.
So forget that we ever shared the same thought.
She has attained the permanence
She dreamed of, where old stones lie sunning.
Untended stalks blow over her
Even and swift, like young men running.
Always in the heart she loved
Others had lived, -- she heard their laughter.
She lies where none has lain before,
Where certainly none will follow after.
Good imagery in SILENCE
SILENTLY! ! ! ! ! ! !
but
this is one is like a Swan dance
compose accordingly
and
please reply all those who comment
else one day you will lament
time is wasted
all is spent...
I'd rather kiss her lips
when I'm kickingalive
who knows who
where in heaven
we will ever meet
Love if at all lies here
Dav
be more pragmatic next time
when you to meet
lie as in lay
just don't lie
kiss her eyes
and
kiss your own nose
as you plant yourself
against a mirror
when all alone
dews/drops.... fall
as a guy you know
..LOVE IS THE ONLY ONE WORD
FOR ALL WHICHHANKER
Life is just an accident
born out of love
and blessed are those who become the outcome
of such a rendition
and a fresh life is born
but in another form
we reincarnate
if at all to be another one
in love to be born again and again
but in different form
come love me
O poet
if you want tojust for once
come in the torrential rain
and with me drench
remove all your attire
we are divine aren't we...
they need no clothes
why not we like them be
the UNIVERSE is vast
none can all see
just ADMIRE THE POET
in poet me
all love and poetry
is IMAGERY! ! !
May appear sexy to ye
may be
dry sticks in the wind,
how have they made this from your music?
I can't pretend to like them for it.
once the skies were ours
the rainbow gleaming dome
and the multifaceted shone
even in a single dewdrop
and the blown rose.
but they have bundled you off
to the ragmen of the soul
for pennies on the dollar
I never owned.
what's owning for
if you lose this?
what will you tell your children's children
when they come to find
the trees stripped bare in summers
in a world of care,
I would ask them if I thought
they could listen and, if, I dared.
let the sere winds blow the betrayals away.
God speaks still in the solitary ear
unquenchable gold and always,
glistening
mary angela douglas 22 september 2014
Ain't givin'
Up on you
Crazy doll
Life's too small
The romantic one is the rarest one
And he is just not like the other folks
You must learn, my dear, how to talk
To him, unlike those common folks.
Don't bore him with your silly folk tales
He has finer tastes, not coarse like ale
Don't expect of him the heathen tongues
Or folk dance set to cheap barbaric songs.
Talk to him in sweetness, of love, romance
Reach out to his heart with gentle cadence
Utter not a rude word, a single rude word
Or play with him silly, dirty mind games
For he of gentle nature might take offence
And once his mood is off
He may for ever switch off
What shall you gain by losing such a one
A romantic guy is the rarest one
If ever you find a romantic man
Latch on to him as fast as you can
For once he goes, you'll never ever
Find in this life another for sure.
He of classic mind will abhor folk things
He'll seek harmony in even littlest things
Don't expect him to folk dance
For he'll dance ballet in the evenings
And he'll take you to the night's ball
And waltz you down the aisle
And lock his rings with your rings.
Your Kashmiri is at best a folk dance
While Odishi has a pure classical stance
If you want to be in love with the Classics
Just leave your folks behind, and embrace
Some of your lover's romantic basics.
Bring him to mood with your sweetest words
If sweet ones you know not, just avoid rude words
Reach out to him with your sweetest songs
And he is sure to sing his own sweet songs
Soon your melody will make his heart dance
And in his hour of joy he'll quickly embrace
You to his bosom in thrall, my dear Beloved
As a sweet wife in love to her man belonged.
I get a bit,
Romantic.
I get a bit,
Sensual.
I get a bit,
Romantic when enchanted...
And caught up,
When I can't get enough.
I get a bit,
Romantic...
When you and I touch.
I get a bit,
Wanting to be cuddled.
I get a bit,
A wanting to be held.
I get a bit,
Ear nibbling.
And...
Wishing all goes well.
I get a bit,
Romantic.
I get a bit,
Sensual.
I get a bit,
Romantic when enchanted...
And too caught up,
When I can't get enough.
I get a bit,
Wanting to be cuddled.
I get a bit,
A wanting to be held.
I get a bit,
Ear nibbling.
And...
Wishing all goes well.
I get a bit,
Romantic.
I get a bit,
Sensual.
I get a bit,
Ear nibbling.
And...
Wishing all goes well.
Rizvi who used to teach English
And had been the Principal of
Tilak College, Bareilly, U.P.
Is not an academic,
But an editor ad a critic.
An Indian romantic poet,
He has to his credit,
Falling Petals, Unfading Blooms,
Thirsty Pebbles, Wandering Fragrance,
Wounded Roses Sing, Snowflakes of Dreams,
As his collections of poems.
Gathering Broken Glasses, Clouds in Cages,
Fettered Birds, Dripping Wounds,
Love Never Dies, Haiku & Other Poems,
The Valley Still Blossoms
As his works to add to his corpus.
A poet of love, colour and its romance,
Emotion and feeling
And passion,
Poetic frenzy,
The flight of imagination,
He is ever fresh, ever songful.
A romantic poet, he draws from
Keats, Wordsworth and Shelley,
He is a poet of beauty, truth and goodness,
Dreamy and fanciful,
Dwelling far,
Into the realms.
To talk of Rizvi is to talk of the making
Of a romantic,
The poet as an artist
And art as his vision,
The vision and mission of life,
Penetrating deep into.
Iftikhar Hussain Rizvi is one of those Indian English poets
Of the seventies
Who seek to adhere to and perfect
The romantic traits rather than taking
Any other contemporary realms.
The kernel of romanticism he has definitely got
From the English and European masters and their theories of poetry which they used in
While practising their verse
And Rizvi can be o exception to it
As because he has taught and read English as a teacher.
Somewhere he seems to be leaning to Urdu lyrics and lyricism
Seen in the composition of shayaris
And he a shayar of these, a lyric writer,
Writing the lyrics of love, soulfully, heartfully.
To read Rizvi is come to feel that roses too appear
To be wounded and bleeding
If the heart is sad and broken and the ache of the heart,
None but Keats felt it.
Laila's pains are therein; those of Majnu's, burning for
Each other, pining for,
But the heartless, medievalist people cannot let them meet.
A lover's heart is the space of his writing and he inducts in dream, Colour, fancy and imagination to paint his ideas and images.
He is a lover; a dreamer who keeps loving and dreaming about
Man and the world,
Falling Petals, Unfading Blooms, Thirsty Pebbles,
Wandering Fragrance, Wounded Roses Sing.
Snowflakes of Dreams, Gathering Broken Glasses, Clouds in Cages, Fettered Birds, Dripping Wounds, Love Never Dies,
Haiku & Other Poems, The Valley Still Blossoms and others
The poetry-books to add to his corpus.
Born and dead on Avon the same date,23rd April
Romantic playwright Shakespeare none can ignore!
He ever lives in his 32 Plays and 154 Sonnets......!
His plays are mirror to life reflecting about humans
In seven ages of men opening the curtain to show
As child, pupil, lover, soldier, courtier, wise, old man!
What a quintessence of precious dust man is, he says!
Warrior, philosophic in nature, gentle and noble man
Surely cannot take revenge on murderer of his father!
Unlike Hamlet, Prince Hal jovial with fat Falstaff, yet
At the time of emergency fights bravely for nation
And proves himself to be worthy son to his father!
That character Shakespeare develops further into
His favourite hero Richard III and gives a sketch
And full picture to the best he can to immortality!
Comedy or Tragedy or history, he shows his skill,
Power and range depicting characters none can forget
And refer in life parallel happenings to one and all!
Whoever loved, that loved not at first sight.....?
Love at first sight we came to know from him first!
Romeo and Juliet & Antony and Cleopatra live long!
Star crossed lovers' hearts stricken with arrow
Cupid boy releases from his bow never fails and
Lovers live or die together to be immortals ever!
Cleopatra's serpentine beauty captures hearts of
Emperor Julius Caesar and his faithful friend Antony
Till death and suicides herself by the bite of snake!
He creates romantic love life controlled by Nature
At first and at the end of his career makes Nature
Go under the control of man envisaging future too!
For him life is such stuff as dreams are made on
And is rounded off with a sleep at the end sure!
Closing curtain so in blank verse he ends in sonnets!
we could and should write a book about elite family photo fashion albums
it is worth a review those with a gypsy spirit will flush rules down the loo
pursue wealth at cost of love calculated cold reap loss live to heartfelt rue
lost chances for love a stone cold marriage bed ice cold lover emotionless;
is it not worth all to ardent pursue a great true love a chance for a destiny
wealth is like the leaves on the tree that wither and fall in aged Autumn
true love is the whole tree every tree in passion forest ever Spring reborn
money sterile is like ice rain drops falling from black cloud heights stormy;
true love is the sea entire oceans where each sacred raindrop was birth born
lust is like a dew drop sparkling on a blade of grass at newborn day dawn
summer heat evaporates each elfin droplet as long heartless burns hot sun;
tempting rainbow possessions parched long drought fade empty gather dust
true love lost is ever a broken wasteland poor worthless soil destitute dust
devoid of life's magic in strife woven hectic pace life lust stains a red rust;
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
She said:
'In defense of Love I have only Faith and Necessity to offer;
without Romantic Love I fear the species dies.'
'Well' he said 'Romantic Love is a recent and western notion you see
and has existed only in the last 200 years and mostly in the west-invented I think by the Victorians and the Romantic Poets.''
'So tell me then my friend' he said 'what is Romantic Love good for? Is it not best to assure that a couple has good families involved since after all is it
not true that what is happening here is not a tryst but two families coming
together?
And too, no couple can make it alone on Love's Grist..
Arranged marriages has been the norm and is the best if the test is
longevity.'Romantic Love too often he said ends in Unromantic divorce miserable kids and True Love's Adversities.
'Are you saying then she said we jettison Romantic Love and its pursuits? '
'In that case let me state, then combine, what I take  to be True Love's true defenses.
Love its true, is the bonding start, but behind that is unlimited Faith in the
the Other unrelenting.
Otherwise we would all marry only near clones of ourselves
and destroy, in life and family, all variety.
'Even cave people insisted that marriages take place outside the tribe with others  not only to avoid incest but, too, to diversity the gene pool which
undiversified would result in the death of the species  due to genetic stultification.'
'So Romeo and Juliet came to a bad end but their  idea was correct. Opposites attract for good reason. It is built into the genes.
So in defense of Romantic Love there can be no higher defense than this.
What does marriage arrangements offer in retort- a dull family contract
endless tryists, and consorts where old men marry young girls who emotionally bolt and emotionally re-marry some younger buck.
Or if of similar age, they stay together for the sake of family.
Humm, too often this home feels like prison camp.
No carry me away to Love's excess even if under distress it may crumble
but lacking love in marriage is no bliss and looks more like accommodation
lacking True Love's Sweetness.
Ah, he said we both have our view on Love and no-love estrangement:
perhaps we two could make some arrangement and see if True Love blooms?
She smiled 'Well, they say True Love begins with humor.
Sure, let's talk some more.'
He said;
'Beautiful.'
I’ve written this poem to impress you.
Will you give your heart in exchange for a poem?
Perhaps you don’t even know how much you worth!
Still now you are only like my poems
And I am a poet who has composed you!
Why do I still watch movie on you so hazy
On the screen of imagination
In Romantic channel of thought!
I’ve searched for you in so many places!
I really don't know whether you will be here
by my side
In this life!
If I knew who are you
Where are you!
Poetess is very happy today and in romantic mood
For her love is the only passion and food
She has Chris on hand to go with
Full with deep love and armed with teeth
What moon, earth or for that matter anything
She has needed none or expects something
Since weeks she had prepared beautiful ground
Now naturally she will be drunk and found
All her eagerness may come to an end
In Chris she has found an ally and friend
What else she has needed to enjoy?
No stars, no sky and no moon to joy
Let her explain what happened on that day
How did she enjoyed it till long night stay
What did he get in return for complete surrender?
Who was winner in race? Female or male gender
Let it remain there as their private domain
They might have talked about loneliness and pain
We may hear the version form poetess's encounter
let her take complete world by storm and enter
On doggerel rime dedicated to you, catch my soul in narcotic romance,
In rash I'll be disjointed; in a flash,  my spirit gratifies in hypnotic trance;
For in my verse I find joy in my voice as you're my Hobson's choice!
On the paper, I bare my soul to you as you are my vocalizing voice.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Thinking of you, I look at heavens and all I see is blue,
Blue skies, white clouds, but not one trace of you oh baby, baby!
I look deep into the dark night yet of no avail, I'm in love flu;
So I surfed within my heart I saw a star with your smile, oh baby baby.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Let me tell you how I feel: I love you along as galaxies live, oh baby!
Look into my eyes without a blink, an island pink, oh baby,
When the sun goes down, will you be there to walk in lawn? baby!
You can see my dreams, my sorrows, my joys and more, oh baby!
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Pass the sugar baby; pass it, don't say maybe, baby, baby!
Kisses come with dawning sugar-sweet in the morning, oh Baby;
I become a waterwheel, turning and tasting you is my new hobby!
There's none for me so set our melody to blast forever, baby.
Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle in my ground with romantic sound!
Little romantic
I am hasmukh* by name
And can claim
Full laughing stock
With jokes
"Has" means to smile
"Mukh" means face
It means smiling face
No sadness in any case
People may often comment
You have right meaning in it
But I know what hidden truth
I feel it with each count of breathe
I have moved
And proved
At each turn
That I still learn
I have yet to feel
Pain and fill
Their life with charm and happiness
I want same smile on their face
I am having little romantic nature
And I see in it a good future
I come across many friends
With their leaning attitude in the end
It is a feeling which cannot be explained,
When your mind stops working and your heart is over-strained.
You are in a state of absolute delight,
And the face of your beloved always blurs your sight.
When poetry comes naturally,
And sleep eludes regularly,
When walking turns into prancing,
And you feel like singing and dancing.
When your beloved’s comfort and happiness becomes your obsession,
And your reason is repeatedly kicked by your passion.
Then ‘Love’ is the name of your condition,
For which there is only one prescribed medication:
'An equal love from your lover’s side',
This will calm your nerves and peace will reside.
Unrequited love is like severe body ache,
After all, the spurned lover’s heart is at stake.
His / Her eyes are water fountains,
He / She knows that true love can move mountains,
So he / she never stops trying,
Keeps heaving, hoping and crying.
But when love is reciprocated,
Every sentiment uttered for the beloved, seems exaggerated.
The thought of separation is unimaginable,
And feelings and sentiments become totally unmanageable.
The finest of all human sentiments,
‘Love’ knows no divisions, boundaries or impediments.
It spares no mortal soul,
In our lives, ‘Love’ plays an important role.
In a moment it makes me romantic
Remove all sadness and show to be fantastic
The poems are made as my heaven
The slight ideas get fine place even
How words strike mind in quick succession?
Form nice imagination with fast obsession
Romance with female friends and bright moon light
Oh, what a lovely desire to be expressed truly right
Why those dark nights don’t frighten me?
Why I touch all those stars and steal their twinkles in free?
Create their impression of sadness in fine poetical words
Feel so close to the almighty and spell it as holy from mouth of lords
Is poetry a means to cut jokes?
Cut some to size and unnecessarily poke
Does it not involve greater degree of appreciation?
I think it does and sometimes choke the throat and pronunciation
I try to control with tears and bring smile in between
But in fact it takes me to the extreme end and shows heaven
I take deep stock of it and compare what I get by composing poems
It is no less joy then what one gets from friends
I see with deep sense of human touch
Every time some incidence comes as such
I move with great care and involve
Rest ideas come in quickly and solve
It is divine blessing that you can think and form relation
An opinion about holy path, love or separation
How come you think with great pain about such sensitive things?
Unless you are gifted with invisible hands to create something
It is not poetic skill or some illogical presentation
It has even nothing to do with any kind of orientation
It is well imagined scene with mix of human feelings
That plays till end with souls together and willing
My heart loves you
My soul loves you
My eyes are missing you
I wish that your family agrees to marry me
But what can I do, it's something in your parents hands
I write letters to you all the time
I put a rose every day on the wall of your house
You are my life and my soul
Each beat of my heart is calling you, honey
I love you so much
I miss you so much
I wish that I can be with you someday
I wish that
'Best Wishes To You From Whole My Heart'
Ali Sabry
My wife says I'm not romantic,
I don't suppose I am
I think I'm just an average bloke
Doing the best I can;
I think about my lady
And not just now and then
I tell her that I love her
As much as other men.
But this is  NOT  romantic
It's just not good enough!
She wants the constant flattery
She wants the gooey stuff;
Not just every weekend
Or even days between
She wants the flowers hourly
And treating like a queen.
If truth be told, I'm lazy
And think it doesn't matter
I haven't got the eloquence,
The charm, the chat, the patter;
I've got to be quite honest,
Straightforward and pedantic
My wife is right, I'm not
And never will be a romantic.
(Written June 2000)
And this reft house is that the which he built,
Lamented Jack ! And here his malt he pil'd,
Cautious in vain ! These rats that squeak so wild,
Squeak, not unconscious of their father's guilt.
Did ye not see her gleaming thro' the glade ?
Belike, 'twas she, the maiden all forlorn.
What though she milk no cow with crumpled horn,
Yet aye she haunts the dale where erst she stray'd ;
And aye beside her stalks her amorous knight !
Still on his thighs their wonted brogues are worn,
And thro' those brogues, still tatter'd and betorn,
His hindward charms gleam an unearthly white ;
As when thro' broken clouds at night's high noon
Peeps in fair fragments forth the full-orb'd harvest-moon !
After a long time
I have taken my diary
To compose some verses
By sitting on the couch
In my balcony on this full moon night.
My  thoughts seem to be paralysed
And my poetic mind like a physician
Tries to cure them in stead of writing verses.
The moon is walkiing but staring at me
And the romantic night is laughing at me  silently.
It seems to be  impossible
To compose the lovely verses
In the romantic light.
The happy conversation between us
Will not go on tonight.
My dreams are silent
Not to play with the moonlight.
By Dipankar  Sadhukhan
Kolkata,  India.
Copyrights@December29,2016(12: 10am) .
Lovers love
to smile and dance
as it's the first step to
ROMANCE
LOVE IT O Poet
LOVE IS THE ONLY ONE WORD
FOR WHICH ALL HANKER
Life is just an accident
born out of love
and blessed are those
who become the outcome of such a volition
and
life is born in another Form
we reincarnate to be another one
in love to be born
again and again
but in different Norm
come love me O Poet me
if you want to
just for once
come in the rain with me
get drenched
remove all your attire
we are Divine aren't we...
my beauty lies in my concealment
you want to see upfront
first come and show yourself
O Poet
then you may turn me around
till then just admire
the wettest silky attire
love me first
eredisaster comes
love is just for one
and only once..
DEAR DAVE
PEACE BE WITH THEE
The moon replied
How much happier I'd have been
if you had shown the lower half
all naked to me
with my sexiness
you wanted to compare O lady
I am more beautiful than thee
Years don't age nor frail me
your beauty just lasts
till end of YOUR virginity
but still I can see ye
You too are as beautiful
but not more than me
good Dears all
do read my poem
MOMS SMILES
U'D LOVE IT
NOTES
This extempore poetry
is as a result of a
ROMANTIC POET OF PH HERE
WHO TRANSLATES HIS VIEWS
AS HE WOULD LIKE THE OTHER PERSON
WOULD LOVE TO DO
HE views
A SURE ROMANCER HE MUST BE
LIKE POET ME
People are romantic
Friday,15th June 2018
The love has its own way
and you are made to stay
and feel the pulse of love
without a hitch, you accept the reality and believe
you feel the pulse of love
and firmly believe
that it is the gift of an almighty
and you are blessed already
what can be the language of love?
how are you driven by some feelings?
this matter is between two individuals
where they do feel the sentiments of the people!
you have the time to spare
and dare too
for a meeting in a place
where you have time to feel love traces
some people are romantic
and make the hectic move
get in to feel togetherness
and express it openly on the face
Hasmukh Amthalal Mehta
From
THERE’S a rare Soul of Poesy which may be
But concentrated by the chastened dreams
Of constant hearts. Where’er the ministry
Of beautiful Nature hath enhanced the themes
Of some Petrarchian mind whose story gleams
Within the Past like a moon-silvered sea,
Or where grey Interest the spirit free
Of faithful Love hath caged in iron schemes,
Or round it stirr’d such dangers as o’erdrove
Long Ruin’s storm at last—there evermore
The very airs that whisper to the grove,
The echo’s mystery and the streamlet’s lore
Savour of Passion and transfusive pour
Abroad suggestions to heroic Love.
We become sentimental
And go on the dark side of moral
Why not we think of sunny side?
When world for is so wide!
Why do not you write about deep love?
The ideals you believe in
The desire you have in heart
Always to be with her as inseparable part!
Love shall be only driving factor
Where you are romantic actor
The stage is fully open
For you to dance and sing even
Right about nature
Its change for coming future
Lovely and beautiful flowers
With natural rainy showers
Think and write about future union
How will you be bending down with affection?
What shall be your first reaction when see her?
Such shall be befitting offer!
Candle lights, a bed of petals
A sprinkle of roses
A table with the candles lit
Two plates, two wine glasses
A rosy birthday cake, a bottle of wine
Soft music playing in the background
A loving tune flowing thru the air
Beautiful you coming down the stairs
A glowing angel with a gorgeous smile
Sent from the heavens above
A Birthday surprise and a tearful joy
A romantic night for you to cherish
Like a scene from the movies
The beautiful actress gets her man
A dream that comes true
Tears of joy and surprise
Wishing you a loving Birthday
Full of love and joy
A kiss and a slow dance
Holding you tightly, whispering
Happy Birthday and loving you
A birthday wish for you comes true
You're eyes are blue,
The Sky is too,
Can love be also,
Color Blue?
I float away,
Images blue,
Today, they play,
A Waltz in blue,
A Rhapsody,
Also in Blue.
White is so pure,
But so is blue,
Blue oceans bring me,
Close to You,
Your eyes, your look,
The color blue,
Can love be just,
Blue thoughts of you?
All dreams of all people are not the same in world life;
Beautiful and best dreams of heart never die very soon;
Combination of heart, mind and soul produce unique dreams;
Dreams of love, God, paradise, heaven, one world are fine!
Every dream and achievement in the world is history ever;
Full scale dream of great ideas turn into reality sure;
Great dreamers are the leaders, poets and scientists ever;
High and noble dreamers have been achieved in the world!
Icons are the great heroes youngsters dream to be so ever;
just the image of such heroes trigger dreams wonderful...;
Keeping images of heroes as Gods they all dream high life;
Love in life and zeal to achieve best things all dream ever!
Multifaceted personalities are the heroes of dreams of all;
Noble and handsome heroes come in all dreams of young girls;
Obviously, the handsome hero of film ladies dream to live with;
Personality of angelic order all youngsters dream to be happy!
Queens of world beauties occupy the dreams of young men ever;
Rosy lips of heroes young ladies kiss long in dreams forever;
Stimulating passion in all lovers of great fame inspire all;
Tragedy of tiresome persons are compensated by dreams of beauty!
Universe itself is the greatest source of heavenly dreams ever;
Various charming poses of favourite personalities kindle dreams;
Whole world moves in zeal only by dreams of golden time to come!
X files of close encounters with mermaids are ever dreamlike sure;
Years of many noble dreams have become realities by ideas new..;
Zealous mood kindled by fine dreams moves all to romantic victory!
In a candle lit room
with an open fires glow,
you sit arm in arm
passing the evening through.
A bearskin rug under your feet
and the romantic evening
feels almost complete.
You bring the wine from the cooler
and both of you sip it gently.
Your hearts beat faster
with the warmth inside of you
and your kisses are like fire
and urge you to go on.
Then the door opens
and her parents tell you
in no uncertain terms
to get out and go home.
How deep romantic feeling,
Our lives can often change,
A look, a touch and reeling,
Our hearts fully engage,
It's that Romantic Feeling,
That still we do possess,
That makes our lives appealing,
And Love in Life, the best.
She
your dream girl is sexy
man
your sidekind as you say
but in dreams
none mind to be in total nude
as you can play about freely
with your ownbody
until one is wet
its like raining.....
Yesterday
I saw a group of twenty guys
dining at a restaurant
no girl with them
guess what were they thinking
The management helped
and
only beautiful girls served
nude chicken breasts
are you jealous or zealous;
it was like a dream come true
many later dated quite a few...
I began to rain! ! ! ! everywhere
just imagine man
your dream girl must stillbe dry
call her if you can
all the best at least in dreams you invest
you are a romantic one
Your breath
Easy as a sleeping sea
Serenity
Your breathing
Whispering as a palm tree
Kissed by the breeze
As the sea caress
The mythical blue atoll
She smiles in her sleep
Romantic heroine,
In the absence of her,
How to be a romantic?
It is the romantic heroine
Who gives final touches
To the play of life.
Is she comes not dressed,
In the make-up of hers and beautified,
The play will spoil it.
You told me once
My care is amazing
You enlightened me
My eyes are passionate
I understood right away
Intention of your lie
Conceived you then
As a romantic liar
I am hypnotized
By stimulating splendour
Your adoring features
Touched innocent sense
Aggressive and obsessive
Kiss, knotted me to you
You were sensitive
Not to let me free
You became my dream
You became my psyche
You became my vision
You became my life
When I tie the knot
Masquerade taken out
Exemplified your
Inner parts of guts
I am aware now
You entrapped me
I want to find out
A romantic lie to escape
Flee from you at once
Glided on seven skies
Voyaged ocean limits
Probing for harmony
When I turned around
Find your burning tears
Dear, I’m back again
To be with you forever
How I save my face
Grab your lovely heart
I am searching for
Another romantic lie
(Riyadh 28 June 2009)
Romance is full of challenges to deal with;
Romantic hero and heroine take them well!
Romantic story captures the hearts of youths;
Romeo and Juliet now all like to end in comedy!
Famous love stories are written to be tragedies;
Love touches all and lives longer than humans!
Famous love comedies are romance in novels
And movies are full of such stories to please all!
Only love is vital and most important in life
Of all the virtues man cherishes most in world!
For, with love comes all virtues to one in life
As love is divine as pretty Nature that inspires!
Romance makes life interesting to live in the world
And for the sake of love all hardships are endured!
Comedy or tragedy, love is the central theme here
That drives romantic life to go on all terrains sure!
Love is not of minds alone;
Love is not of hearts that yearn;
Love is not of bodies entwined;
Love is more than the finest wine!
Love is not just when eyes see;
Love is not just when ears hear;
Love is not all sensory;
Love is more than what you dream!
Love is not of earthly mould;
Love is not human-designed;
Love is not ephemeral;
Love is more – predestined!
Love is not of sex, age, race;
Love is not for earth’s life-span;
Love is not togetherness;
Love is more- Eternity!
Love the heart of all romance,
Must be of the sacred, laughing brook,
It must be of the eternal dance.
It must of her sable, dark look,
And of mine returning purity for purity.
Romance is love and love is romance.
It is of the azure, gleaming stream,
It is glory beyond all ecstasy.
It transcends all pines, all wines, all loftiness,
It is not a fabled, windy dream.
And when one is immersed in its ineffable caress,
When diamonds are donning her wedding dress,
The sun and the stars rise merely to greet
Yet another height where lips do meet.
Romance is a must for most young hearts
Gestures of love broken in tiny parts
A dozen roses, a chocolate heart,
Writing a poem with all your heart,
A cute little card with x’s and o’s
Sittin’ by the fire warming your toes
A candle lit dinner down by the beach
You both come in a pair not in a peach
Long conversations late into the night
Love is there and romance is in sight
Just a bear hug for you just like this
Romance is even just the right kiss…
You and me, we both look like a fire
Every time we look into each other's eyes, the flame goes higher and  higher
Lets hold each other hands to keep the fire alive
that's the only way our relationship can survive
Love without the romance can't go on forever
is like a car without the gas, that love is going nowhere
Romantic love makes your heart happy and your life sweet
Once you try it, you will never quit
Among all the reasons why we should be together
Lets romantic love to be the one, that hold us together
Sam Arjomandi
inhale a moment
hold it and it holds your breath
till you’ll meet your death
The opportunity to love is common to all
Adults, the able-bodied, the infirm and children
Who love from the bottom of their hearts in a romantic mall.
Loving someone blesses love sources in Fall
When lovebirds hold hands and write love poems with their pen.
The opportunity to love is common to all.
Love and love some more until the call
Of love becomes an ingrained habit in women
Who love from the bottom of their hearts in a romantic mall.
Hazel Fidelia loved John at first sight in a college hall
Where John taught her to draw diagrams Venn.
The opportunity to love is common to all.
Become a love spender; don't be a love vendor but a love sender, tall
Lover who with other lovebirds maintain love and sustain sistren
Who love from the bottom of their hearts in a romantic mall.
Love even when from your lover you receive no phone call
To titillate your heart, to tingle your stomach pit when
The opportunity to love is common to all
Who love from the bottom of their hearts in a romantic mall.
The most exciting moments,
The ones the heart loves best,
Those deep romantic moments,
You wish would never end,
The ones you will remember,
The ones you can't forget,
Those great romantic moments,
Life's most wanted success.
The most romantic moments,
Are those you can't forget,
When Life was a good omen,
When Life had reached its crest,
Those most enchanting moments,
When all your life is blessed,
And finally, Beloved,
The search is put to rest,
As hands softly entangle,
And lips become caress.
Poets are of romantic nature
They see beautiful colors of future
Every object seems of unique importance
They can’t stop from praising at once
Poet means an animal living in isolation
Keeps aloof from crowd and prefers no relation
Such is vague idea about serious poet
As he will prefer to remain always quiet
No one can live in vacuum
It is wrong on our part to assume
It can’t be minus or plus of sum
It is nature and tendency of some
As is well known to all
No one can resist opposite sex call
The nature is all set to balance
No one can dare to or come out of it at once
One of my female friends asked me of bad friends
How come anybody be sure of prevailing mood in the end?
It can be anybody’s guess if one is pulled with attraction
How can it be found in any of the expression?
She was considerate and very appreciative
One can’t be choosey or selective
It is how you evaluate or come to the terms
It like spreading of disease with germs
I posed a question whether she really wanted friends?
What was her mind acting with clear trend/
She was for all good friends with clear motives
I thought she was nice lady and very positive
But if I prefer to speak on myself
I would say I can’t think or help
As I am of romantic nature
And I want commitment very sure
It can’t depend on somebody’s mood
As poetry is my creation and food
I would starve if someone blocks my mind
Fills with hatred and acts as unkind
I would consciously ask straight
As I have no passion even for minute to wait
I believe it is not one way feeling
It must come instant and as willing
Some of them may say they won’t mind frankness
It should be expressed and talked on face
I would love those arguments for healthy relation
As it may not later on raise unnecessary questions
I provoke friends till get satisfactory answer
The honest answer may come from very fewer
Some may intelligently scoff off at even suggestion
I take pride in putting or making frank mention
He told me
To be
Romantic
As before
I told him
I've forgotten
How to write
Think and feel
As before
Romantic,
Romantic,
Who is a romantic,
The making of a romantic,
How the man behind the curtain
Is the thing to know?
Romantic,
Romantic,
The word is no doubt musical and magical,
But who is the romantic,
One who is full of colour and image,
Fancy and imagination,
Dream and fantasy?
Or one who is creative,
A lover of Nature,
Hills, rivers, woods and valleys,
The village and the country,
The landscape and the greenery
In full myth and mysticism?
Or one who transforms dreams into realities,
Imagines and creates
As per Nature's plan,
Envisages and transforms,
Loves man, birds and beasts,
Sees the things in astonishment,
The world and Nature?
Or one who is a loafer,
A rambler, a roamer moving
Aimlessly
On the road of life,
Parting like a Romeo,
Loving and dodging,
Cheating and deceiving?
ROMANTIC POET AND MEMORY OF MAGIC REALISM
life still fact of dream small village
in unfinished seas  a sailor can not visit the land
or say can god of souls stopped death for ever
magic realism our story
through broken economic'my economic under zero hours '
as peace in middle east
Romantic poet
Sunday, January 14,2018
8: 25 AM
I call myself poet
But remainquiet
When someone offers love
I hardly can believe
Love is such world
That it can be called holier than the lord
The word itself has solution
You can make straight away the resolution
Nobody can stall
Your path and call
It as futile way
Your journey has meaningful stay
I have seen riverflowing
The birds make chirping
The wind makes silent blow
I find it all in nature's glow
Love is in my blood
I find it in neighborhood
I also see it in all objects
Love is omnipresent and this is fact
Love makes your presence
And expresses true essence
Avail if you have chance
Feel no worries or remain tense
with casual gesture is raising
the goblet overfilled
with the cascade of words
to the mouth inexpressible
with the red rowan of persistent thoughts
like drops of blood is marking the road
to the white summerhouse of trysts
standing in the garden
wrapped with elaborate
tangles of bindweed and the Virginia creeper
leading the purpose through the drawbridge
he is encouraging participation in spring funs
sensitive breath of the wind what knocking with trees
is flying without the memory protracting
on the young greenness fields getting
it is beckoning rains of the spring storm
over to himself with the lightning
the poet is writing with heart
off whom one each drops of the red rowan
and tenderness of longing are falling...
A winsome youth, whose visage bore
A galaxy of pimples on the forehead,
Noticed a girl running ahead
While tramping up a country road.
She seemed to float afar to catch up
With her runaway cat or puppy.  He strode
As fast as the muscles of his legs allowed
The pursuit of a dream.  Her tousled hair
Tumbled around her shoulders.  When he reached
The field where she was coyly cuddling her pet,
He tugged the visor of his cap over the forehead and
Flung the scarf around his face to hide the pimples.
She knew him from the market, with his twin dimples
In a horizontal smile, an enigmatic ‘emoticon',
Perhaps to be unravelled in a shared lifetime. Perhaps.
Can we intuitively feel the emotions of other people,
Protagonists or dramatis personae,
Whom we know or meet in life or read about
In histories, biographies, fairy tales and fictional romance?
Like the tug a man may feel
When attracted by a face or form or grace in motion,
Such as a runner at the finish?
‘I' is the slimmest letter in the Latin script of English,
But how bloated with meaning it is!
"Cogito, ergo sum".
U-go, I-go, Ego.
Melancholy heart wavers
Like a sinking ship
From inward disappointment
Of life plans crumbling
On the unsavory streets
Of urban despair.
I dream of brushing
A beautiful woman’s hair
With the lavish possibilities
Of a millionaire,
But I daily catch curbside coins
Instead of the shimmering diamonds
I desire to place around her throat.
I’m never agitated for long,
Even though I have the empty stare
Of a preoccupied professor
At an archeological dig.
You would find me a sweet lover
In my little shack and poetry bed
Of hopeless resignation.
I know my insignificant place,
But I remain a romantic Romeo nonetheless.
Romantic Rose,
Rose of love!
Rose of joy,
Rose of peace;
With the fragrance of its aroma.
She said, You have to get me out of here.
Grabbing me close to whisper in my ear.
I realize you're only what I hold dear,
And losing you forever is my only fear.
Along with the back ground of acoustical guitars,
You're sending me sailing through heavenly stars.
Now, I have come up with the greatest notion.
Lets take a vacation over looking the ocean.
Rubbing in romance with sun tan lotion,
Our senses can come alive with the scenic potion.
We'll order champagne from one of the bars,
And toast to the food life under brightly lit stars.
Another idea has just rattled my brain.
Tickets for two on a slow moving train.
To view water falls in upper State, Maine.
Then walk hand in hand down some long shady lane.
Out in the wilderness away from all cars,
We both can make wishes on fast shooting stars.
Deep down inside is a raging hot fire.
You have fast become my hearts desire
Like the stars in the sky you're lifting me higher.
If I said it different, you can call me a liar.
When our first child is born and I'm handing cigars.
Deep in my eyes is where you'll see all the stars.
I love writing
With emotional fighting
To add something unusual
But still look it as casual
I make life to look wonderful
I wish everybody to become successful
Peacefully live with their expectations
With harmonious coexistence and relations
We are not here to score points
Take lives of others with joint conspiracy
It spoils the chance for living together
The message is spread with split offers
What do I try to write?
I still have nerves to excite
Write for readers to know some of the unknown aspects
That may sometimes urge them to act
Romantic tales are not my style
To work more in this direction is not goal
To remain in touch with human thinking
That is all I wish to perform rather than sinking
You are my whole on my trip,
I love to travel on your ship.
My hope is to reach that land,
To give you a red flower by my hand.
You make me feel in peace,
You divide me into many pieces.
We are alone at that place,
We are rarely in that case.
We are alone in this room,
When my red flower starts to bloom.
I muse on your face under the full moon,
When my favorite music blasts to drum.
After you read my letter,
You make my mind  quieter,
By your smile so sweeter.
essence and colors of twilight
ceased my heart,
yet still I have looped
on your thinking, my darling
snowflakes have covered the trees
underneath cold wind blows from north
My spirit become low,
what a teach of the nature!
darkest horizon what it has meant,
that threats my nights and days-
stars have blended, apart from hopes
clouds are whirling on drifted edge,
dreams have broken,
run with autumnal cloud
I can rather want to you,
my darling
As alluring attention that dies,
with illusion and hallucination
The last -
ever and forever,
my confession
I will die with a claim
of romantic torment,
‘O' darling and you will face,
the rude reality at the end -
- Shaleheen,28th Sept,2013
You've got me on a tightrope and trembling too!
This is not...
Romantic understanding.
You've got me so uptight I don't know what to do.
This is not...
Romantic understanding.
Tell me why,
Romantic understanding...
You aint got hip to yet!
Tell me why,
Romantic understandings...
From you I might not get.
Tell me why,
There's no romantic understanding.
Why...
There's no chance for romance.
And,
Tell me why...
There's no romantic understanding.
Or a chance for romance!
You've got me on a tightrope and trembling too!
You've got me so uptight I don't know what to do.
Tell me why,
There's no romantic understanding.
Why...
There's no chance for romance.
You've got me on a tightrope and trembling too!
You've got me so uptight I don't know what to do.
Can you.
Can you.
Can you...
I bet you can,
Tell me why,
There's no romantic understanding.
Why...
There's no chance for romance.
Tell me why,
Romantic understanding...
You aint got hip to yet!
Tell me why,
Romantic understandings...
From you I might not get.
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
they wouldn't be red or blue,
without you,
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
I'll be stuck to you,
like glue,
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
Poems express my love,
you do too!
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
It'll always be me,
and you.
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
I can never explain,
how much I love you...
Russian poets are not romantic.
Because nights here are very cold.
And to catch just one moment ecstatic -
You should be very quick and bold.
There is no romantics in Joseph,
Balmont - angel with shattered dreams.
And Verblessness of sorrow -
that is the Russian theme.
Loneliness is coldness.
I love it - so let it be.
It was not cold in snowy Kronstadt
since saint John became altruist.
He said to the one: 'I live for you' -
and there was a uniting flame,
that washed out all selfish sorrow,
and consumed the world by Christ's fame.
That day, God sent her to me
Just for 30 minutes, it is momentary.
Young, charming and lovely
Sincere, shrew and brainy.
Ow! words fail how I was happy.
Sometimes, for the earth to be peaceful,
For colorful flowers to bloom,
For nutrient plants to grow,
Mankind stares up the sky.
Ow! they wish the clouds for shower mild.
To present a cool rain-drop,
Blue sea must be burnt off.
Where is justice for nature right?
The blood of her heart vaporizes.
Ow! which mindful one does memorize?
Heart absorbs all feelings and suffers
When much, they run over through eyes as tears.
My God! is it real nature?
To own love-blooms in chest deepest,
Ow! it's inner raining running into mad.
'Her eyes are demure diamonds
Below the rainbows of eyebrows'
I compose this sort of verses with rhythm,
And feel it by myself as a gem.
Ow! does she love poems?
Truth and untruth, equity and inequity.
As she crave truth and equity,
I notice that she has fair fancy,
And she is gifted in poetry.
Ow! words fail how I feel ecstasy.
She loves verses, I love verses.
Though we're strangers and have different breaths,
Poems make us two not to mope.
Poems make us two hearts to close.
Ow! how a brave beauty like a rose! ! !
Without appealing, without tempting,
She melts in heart beating.
Arteries and veins allow her in circulating.
Finally, fingers shake and grasp a pen.
Ow! it becomes 'she, a romantic poem'
★Sour, Sweet, Bitter Are Romantic Love.
☆Luo Zhihai Lyrics & Translation
Listened to you murmured on the phone.
You doted and took pity on me.
You tired of drifting dreaming home
Weak lovesickness between you and me.
Dear Ah Hua, my dear sweetheart,
Please came with a bunch of wild lily.
Full of fragrance of spring around me.
My soft and weak heart was not alone.
Saw that you were into a trance.
You sincerely liked and loved me.
Your glowing eyes were burning love.
Both of us fell in love, fell in love.
Dear Ah Hua, my dear sweetheart,
Please went with a heart to heart lock.
Huangshan Hill Clouds changed magic so much.
Head over heels we were in love.
In spring, summer, autamn and winter.
You like a fire, I look of love.
Dawn, night, wind, rain, moon and sun, .
I am not weak after your care.
Love each other forever, we love.
Sour, sweet, bitter are romantic love.
At 16: 00 on the September 28, to at 12: 30 on October 3,2010 wrote & translated.
▲Chinese Text
★酸甜苦辣都是浪漫情歌
☆罗志海歌词
聆听你喃喃地反复 诉说
你耐心地宠我哄我怜我
你梦萦故乡厌倦了漂泊
两地相思身心疲惫脆弱
亲 爱的阿华哥呀阿华哥
请你来时带一束野百合
满屋飘逸芬芳明媚春色
婀娜芳心从此远离 寂寞
看见你痴痴地失魂落魄
你真心地疼我惜我爱我
你炽热的双眼燃烧爱火< br>你有情我有意情投意合
亲爱的阿华哥呀阿华哥
请你走时带一把连心锁
黄山云海 翻腾神奇莫测
携手连心我俩永沐爱河
寒风凛冽再度骄阳似火
你热情似火我含 情脉脉
彩霞满天瞬间大雨滂沱
你细心呵护我不再柔弱
我俩一起饱经爱恨折磨
酸甜苦辣都是浪漫情歌
2010年9月28日16: 00至10月3日12: 30作词翻译
NICE ONE... ALL IN A PARK
we have a PARK*
adjoining
and
what we see here
is eyes worth opening
in the East you will say
its imagery
beyond your mind's imagining
can such things be done openly
You will say BLASPHEMY
AND
Love is eternal
roses are maternal
lovely sentiments
hope your wife knows in life
you have another one
you r 1/2 my age
or r u 1940?
can't hide from me your rage
sexiness spills
all can see
never mind
LOVE REALLY IS BLIND
two poems
ONE INSPIRED BY A SPIRITUALIST
THE SECONDA SEXIEST
BOTH ENJOY THEIR OWN WORLD OF CONTRAST
YET BOTH WILL TILL THEIR OWN TIME LAST
ERE THEY PASS
THE FLAG MAST
AS they alone
BY PASS
*COMMON FOR YOUNG KIDS
AND THOSE IN WILDER TEENS
PLUS
STARK EYED OLDIES
there is no nudity
at least
Do you know who started
Buy two one for free
A guy and woman
sucking like you did
you sucked one
she said second one is free
you sucked it
and
smiles still come across your face
wondering why you gave up so quickly
hope she comes again willingly
both cups this time will be abs free
suck on regardless she will keep coming
hopefully as you are the most romantic person
with glue-full glee
she loves it
now all is free
she has started coming
daily
Note
Romance is thefirst free thing in life
which we all enjoy for free
Any exceptions
please leave......
Sun who can make nine planets happy
was honored  with the smallest and most far  Pluto
then people think this who worships the sun is lunatic
but he believes that with the golden rays no other lights exist
and when she smiled to his niche
he thought  his prayer is accepted,
his kneeling will approach him to her paradise
and he will hold her hand whilst she revolves around herself in a dancing move
suddenly a black clouds came between him and her
to realize how many light-years separating them
then the sky cried
And surgeons disagreed with each other
Dr / Hussam: excise all the tumors
Dr / Salah: treat him by radiotherapy and chemotherapy
Dr / Mokhles: leave him to die
-
His mother was crying
While he was smiling
Then asked her Mum, think with me
The cancer enlarges everywhere
and its cells swim in my blood
its cells are undifferentiated
doctors don't know from where it came
it is from my heart
and when it grows, my heart grows
so I loved the whole world and loved its creator
cancer cells which went every where
visited my fingers
so I wrote the poems
haunted my brain and caused some pain
although increased its tension
but increased my attention
Mum, she travelled to Dubai
Incidence of cancer will increase in Asia
But her carcinogen femininity
Will remain in the Egyptian boy's heart
Mum, I want the operation
which is touching my hand
but she is the surgeon and she is the nurse
and I want the radiotherapy
from her eyes irradiation
and from her teeth flash
and I want the chemotherapy
a crumb of bread
she puts between my lips
then I want to die
on her bosom
My heart overflows
With sweet romantic feelings
When I think of you
The romantic hut
Sights holding
As from a bud
Flower blooming
Smell spreading,
For the beauty
Birds are singing,
Butterflies dancing
Saying it is spring,
It is spring,
Come all out of door,
Have a tour,
Sing a tone for life,
Life is nice, rich,
All are wealthy,
No one is poor;
Don't keep wrong
In mind's corner
Fill it with
Love and love,
Help one another
To be really happy
To lead life with peace
And prosperity.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |10/7/2016
When I was young
Bloody hot-blooded
I fancied there could be
An eternal kiss
In an endless embrace
Then they called me
An indefatigable romantic
Later when my beard greyed
I knew eternal anything can't be
Everything that had begun
Had to end in vain
In vagrant time on endless run
Then they called me
A sophic akin to Socrates
Ah me, they didn't know
I remained still a romantic
For then I was in love
Not with fleshy lips alone
But with roaches even
I am a romantic
Endless that I am
Holding everything
Kiss, roach, touch and lips
Close to my chest
In an eternal clasp
Whisper some Shakespeare in my ear.
Maybe a scene from A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Or better yet, copy a sonnet, longhand, complete
With misspelled words and archaic punctuation.
Send me a text referencing Eliot.
Offer to anaesthetize me and lay me on your table
Like a movable feast for a poor man
Who has nothing to give but another man's love.
Or just this once, speak to me.
In your words, from your soul.
Be pedestrian, be predictable, be cliché.
Say plain words in a plain way.
But make me want to listen
To the tone in your voice
To the catch in your throat
To the hitches and hesitations.
And then kiss me.
Let your lips tell me what your words can't.
And look for my reply in these blue eyes.
Then leave language behind for tonight.
There comes a time in everybody's life
When one keeps floating and flowing
In a dreamy
And dramatic way,
Feeling free and uninhibited,
Smiling with the flowers,
Talking to
And smiling
In the adda of his own,
A hero in the making
Stylistic and fashionable,
Becoming the matter of the talk
Of the side heroines
And the heroine.
But there also a comes a time in the life
Of the hero
When he starts falling,
The flowers come not into the sweet dreams,
Under the stars and the moon
And their mysterious twinkles and moonshine,
Babbles he not,
Smiles he not,
Prefers to be alone,
Returning dejected and forlorn
From the Love City
Of the beloved,
Slapped by the hardcore realities
Of this real life.
O young man playing the role
Of a musician,
A singer
Or an announcer,
Life is not the stage of a theatre,
Life is not
What you envisage
Into the sweet dreams of yours,
Life not so imaginative and fanciful,
Look back on those
Who struggle, sacrifice and suffer
And for whom look you
A hero,
But that too is coming to a close
With the theatre closing down!
Frustrated and forlorn, the romantic
Returning into the steps of his,
Fatigued and depressed
After being beaten
on the life front
And failed,
Loved and lost,
Flirted and deceived he
And now life deceiving
And betraying him
For what he did,
What he took it for romanticism
As to love and abandon
Is not at all romanticism
And to dress stylistically too is not
As a loafer too dresses in the likewise manner.
This one is entering her teens,
Ripe for sentimental scenes,
Has picked a gangling unripe male,
Sees herself in bridal veil,
Presses lips and tosses head,
Declares she's not too young to wed,
Informs you pertly you forget
Romeo and Juliet.
Do not argue, do not shout;
Remind her how that one turned out.
The romantic,
How to get myself popular,
You say it,
I want to be a romantic,
How to be?
Should I dress myself,
Up-to-date, modern, frank and daring in my outlook
Or should I bring the used in boots, shirts and pants
Of my or your father, grandfather and great grandfather
As for to be a romantic?
An impressionist, a transcendentalist,
A smoker and writer
Experimenting with the cheroot and the cigarette,
The beedi and the hookah
To be a romantic,
A romantic writer.
Sometimes as a hippie, sometimes as a gipsy,
Isn't it,
Isn't the sweet dreams of yours,
But mark it
That such a living may be dangerous too
As this may mislead you too?
The drug-trafficker and the woman-trafficker,
The mafia don and the smuggler everywhere,
Just for to be a writer,
A romantic and mystic,
A transcendentalist and impressionist,
You destroy not yourself.
'Silly girl, listen!'
But she doesn't listen
While the village roofs glisten,
Bright in the sun.
'Silly girl, what do you do there,
As if there were someone to view there,
A face to gaze on and greet there,
A live form warmly to meet there,
When there is no one, none, do you hear?'
But she doesn't hear.
Like a dead stone
She stands there alone,
Staring ahead of her, peering around
For something that has to be found
Till, suddenly spying it,
She touches it, clutches it,
Laughing and crying.
Is it you, my Johnny, my true love, my dear?
I knew you would never forget me,
Even in death! Come with me, let me
Show you the way now!
Hold your breath, though,
And tiptoe lest stepmother hear!
What can she hear? They have made him
A grave, two years ago laid him
Away with the dead.
Save me, Mother of God! I'm afraid.
But why? Why should I flee you now?
What do I dread?
Not Johnny! My Johnny won't hurt me.
It is my Johnny! I see you now,
Your eyes, your white shirt.
But it's pale as linen you are,
Cold as winter you are!
Let my lips take the cold from you,
Kiss the chill o f the mould from you.
Dearest love, let me die with you,
In the deep earth lie with you,
For this world is dark and dreary,
I am lonely and weary!
Alone among the unkind ones
Who mock at my vision,
My tears their derision,
Seeing nothing, the blind ones!
Dear God! A cock is crowing,
Whitely glimmers the dawn.
Johnny! Where are you going?
Don't leave me! I am forlorn!
So, caressing, talking aloud to her
Lover, she stumbles and falls,
And her cry of anguish calls
A pitying crowd to her.
'Cross yourselves! It is, surely,
Her Johnny come back from the grave:
While he lived, he loved her entirely.
May God his soul now save!'
Hearing what they are saying,
I, too, start praying.
'The girl is out of her senses!'
Shouts a man with a learned air,
'My eye and my lenses
Know there's nothing there.
Ghosts are a myth
Of ale-wife and blacksmith.
Clodhoppers! This is treason
Against King Reason!'
'Yet the girl loves,' I reply diffidently,
'And the people believe reverently:
Faith and love are more discerning
Than lenses or learning.
You know the dead truths, not the living,
The world of things, not the world of loving.
Where does any miracle start?
Cold eye, look in your heart!'
To Robert Penn Warren
You hold your eager head
Too high in the air, you walk
As if the sleepy dead
Had never fallen to drowse
From the sublimest talk
Of many a vehement house.
Your head so turned turns eyes
Into the vagrant West;
Fixing an iron mood
In an Ozymandias* breast
And because your clamorous blood
Beats an impermanent rest
You think the dead arise
Westward and fabulous:
The dead are those whose lies
Were doors to a narrow house.
I have looked at them long,
My eyes blur; sourceless light
Keeps them forever young
Before our ageing sight.
You see them-too strict forms
Of will, the secret dignity
Of our dissolute storms;
They grow too bright to be.
What were they like? What mark
Can signify their charm?
They never saw the dark;
Rigid, they never knew alarm.
Do not the scene rehearse!
The perfect eyes enjoin
A contemptuous verse;
We speak the crabbed line.
Immaculate race! to yield
Us final knowledge set
In a cold frieze, a field
Of war but no blood let.
Are they quite willing,
Do they ask to pose,
Naked and simple, chilling
The very wind's nose?
They ask us how to live!
We answer: Again try
Being the drops we sieve.
What death it is to die!
Therefore because they nod,
Being too full of us,
I look at the turned sod
Where it is perilous
And yawning all the same
As if we knew them not
And history had no name-
No need to name the spot!
With a romantic heart I love you
With a knowing soul sincerely care
Meet me at our secret rendezvous
Undying devotion, I'll there declare
ROTMS
Midnight
peace doth abide
but only in dreams dear
reality brings doubts and fear
the battle cry is a fight so austere
our dream is of a calmer year
when war is no more and
romance welcomes
Midnight
A Black Rose,
Glistening in the rain,
A sign, a symbol,
An insignia of loss,
It’s the Flower of Darkness,
Lying in wait on this cold winter night,
It represents the beauty of despair,
The grace of defeat,
The feelings we all find hard to bear,
The millions of people that have all loved and lost,
All behind this flower that holds us aloft,
Within its petals we drown our grief,
With its stem we clutch to what’s left of life,
Within its thorns we spite those who have set us so
And within this dark flower we find our peace,
The power to let go and leave the loved lie,
So with this flower we sign our hearts,
We accept our everlasting love,
And move on,
A Black Rose,
Glistening in the rain,
Ill forever love you,
Ill never lose hope,
But until you come back,
Here’s a Black Rose,
For my love…
Act IV, scene iii
A cypress-bough and a rose-wreath sweet,
A wedding robe, and a winding-sheet,
A bridal bed and a bier.
Thine be the kisses, maid,
And smiling Love's alarms;
And thou, pale youth, be laid
In the grave's cold arms.
Each in his own charms,
Death and Hymen both are here;
So up with scythe and torch,
And to the old church porch,
While all the bells ring clear:
And rosy, rosy the bed shall bloom,
And earthy, earthy heap up the tomb.
Now tremble dimples on your cheek,
Sweet be your lips to taste and speak,
For he who kisses is near:
For her the bride-groom fair,
In youthful power and force;
For him the grizard bare,
Pale knight on a pale horse,
To woo him to a corpse.
Death and Hymen both are here,
So up with scythe and torch,
And to the old church porch,
While all the bells ring clear:
And rosy, rosy the bed shall bloom,
And earthy, earthy heap up the tomb.
O Rose! who dares to name thee?
No longer roseate now, nor soft, nor sweet;
But pale, and hard, and dry, as stubble-wheat,---
Kept seven years in a drawer---thy titles shame thee.
The breeze that used to blow thee
Between the hedgerow thorns, and take away
An odour up the lane to last all day,---
If breathing now,---unsweetened would forego thee.
The sun that used to smite thee,
And mix his glory in thy gorgeous urn,
Till beam appeared to bloom, and flower to burn,---
If shining now,---with not a hue would light thee.
The dew that used to wet thee,
And, white first, grow incarnadined, because
It lay upon thee where the crimson was,---
If dropping now,---would darken where it met thee.
The fly that lit upon thee,
To stretch the tendrils of its tiny feet,
Along thy leaf's pure edges, after heat,---
If lighting now,---would coldly overrun thee.
The bee that once did suck thee,
And build thy perfumed ambers up his hive,
And swoon in thee for joy, till scarce alive,---
If passing now,---would blindly overlook thee.
The heart doth recognise thee,
Alone, alone! The heart doth smell thee sweet,
Doth view thee fair, doth judge thee most complete,---
Though seeing now those changes that disguise thee.
Yes, and the heart doth owe thee
More love, dead rose! than to such roses bold
As Julia wears at dances, smiling cold!---
Lie still upon this heart---which breaks below thee!
It was a little budding rose,
Round like a fairy globe,
And shyly did its leaves unclose
Hid in their mossy robe,
But sweet was the slight and spicy smell
It breathed from its heart invisible.
The rose is blasted, withered, blighted,
Its root has felt a worm,
And like a heart beloved and slighted,
Failed, faded, shrunk its form.
Bud of beauty, bonnie flower,
I stole thee from thy natal bower.
I was the worm that withered thee,
Thy tears of dew all fell for me;
Leaf and stalk and rose are gone,
Exile earth they died upon.
Yes, that last breath of balmy scent
With alien breezes sadly blent!
My little daughter is a tea-rose,
Satin to the touch,
Wine to the lips,
And a faint, delirious perfume.
But my little son
Is a June apple,
Firm and cool,
And scornful of too much sweetness,
But full of tang and flavor
And better than bread to the hungry.
O wild winds, and clumsy, pilfering bees,
With the whole world to be wanton in,
Will you not spare my little tea-rose?
And O ruthless blind creatures,
Who lay eggs of evil at the core of life,
Pass by my one red apple,
That is so firm and sound!
O my Luve's like a red, red rose
That's newly sprung in June;
O my Luve's like the melodie
That's sweetly play'd in tune.
As fair art thou, my bonnie lass,
So deep in luve am I:
And I will luve thee still, my dear,
Till a' the seas gang dry:
Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear,
And the rocks melt wi' the sun:
I will luve thee still, my dear,
While the sands o' life shall run.
And fare thee well, my only Luve
And fare thee well, a while!
And I will come again, my Luve,
Tho' it were ten thousand mile.
I'm a disgrace to the life
I lived as a girl—
she would be ashamed
to have me in the world.
But there's no turning back;
it's time to pay the price
for selfish pride
and evil vice.
Or pack up my things
and leave this great earth—
would you put in place
a rose in birth.
Cause thorns I've got
it's the petals I lack;
beauty should unfold:
this is no unknown fact.
With this request I must be going—
please all take care,
boys and girls
handsome and fair.
A rose is a rose every day, every night
You too are the same, except different in my sight
You are like a rose, such a beautiful creation
But a rose in disguise, meant to blume for every nation
So show your beauty, for I know what you are
You are a rose in disguise, and very, very wise
A rose is a rose is a rose.....
A Rose is a Rose is a Rose
A Rose will I give to you,
A rose bloomed in an arbor,
Silent garden with ecstatic fume
did give birth to that bloom.
A Rose will be for a Rose,
Timelessness for your love,
With deep sensual sensitivity,
Rose will bloom everyday.
In the morning and night,
In the tired noon and shaky evening,
A Rose will bloom for you,
Will Play with your bosom pouring hue.
A Rose will I pluck from the Hurst,
Without violence the plucking will be,
With tender wing the Rose
will Colour your cheek,
Unbutton the beauty you hide,
Will be garden for your dance.
A rose will I bloom in my soul,
The cloud will pour lurid dew,
A mystic rose for atypical mould.
The Rose for you to bloom
on an arid field,
No conditioning set by norms.
Within my mind the Rose will be
fertile for my gratefulness,
The root will be my pleasure
without reason,
My individual self is the root
for your boughs,
A rose single and pure
will bloom for you.
My soul with song sonorous,
Muse heavenly and silence
rootless will praise you,
Each part of your body
will be a hymn,
No mortal dream can be
to make it earthly,
A Rose is a Rose is a rose.
With my love deeply deep you are
beyond facticity of mind,
a penetrating metaphysic,
A soul never to revert with verbal code.
You are a child always open,
Knows nothing of the mind,
A glittering shadow of the divine
on celestial evening.
Which light from which land
did shower grace on you
to make you delighted?
Which pain from which dream
did make you so pensively mystic?
You are a dream, a walking dream,
On the field covered by light.
Beyond mind I search
and no trace is found,
Only air of your presence makes me
frenzy and soulless,
With soulless eremite will I search you
beyond transcendence and above.
Which light doth guard you from my sight?
Which knowledge deep and occult
bewitching me to chase you,
Lovely trance feed your floral body
and painful love around your ambit
protect your chastity.
As darkness enveloped by darkness
or shadow enveloped by shadow,
You are in the garden of my mind
A dream enveloped by a dream,
Or light too glittering to make
shadow of your sight.
In my meditation you gleam and
like a moving image on the still sea
of my mind or no-mind,
Sometimes joy and sometimes pain,
In my awakening state you live
as painful inspiration to write epical rhyme.
You are a total self,
a blossomed being,
A rose of my heart fully blossomed
can worship your shrine,
In the heart of my being an alter,
Day and night will be humming, My mind,
The humming mind to be one with you,
To eat your light to be you.
A rose born in my soul without thorn
to love you to caress you,
With pain lofty and dainty
will I find a path though pathless,
With the opening of the petals
I will find your heart.
If youthful joy mystify the way,
If passion pass into
the sky of consciousness,
With time and by subsiding the surge
I will find you in the stillness
of my mind.
Like rain I will drop on you
and suck the milk of divine magnesia
Of your being,
In that formless delight
we both are one.
******************************
Sir, can you answer
This question I pose.....
What on this earth is
As sweet as a rose?
As fragile as lace
With a fragrance divine,
As smooth as warm velvet,
As mellow as wine;
What is more lovely
Than petals of red,
Enhanced by the dewdrops
That cover her head,
Kissed by the sunshine,
Embraced by the breeze,
Beckoning birds to fly
Down from their trees;
Is there a flower
More lovely than this?
Sir, if you find one.....
I'll give you a kiss!
7/14/2012
hold the camera
as the rose's petals
fall
one by
one
until.
backwards
film
the
run
Now
a minor miracle
of memory
in two dimensions
once three.
you.
I.
who
holds
t he camera
now?
A rose is not designed for heroes
Neither for hardened fellows
A rose for a guy will score a zero
A rose
I suppose
As it stands attractively with an elegant pose
Consumed with scents pleasing to the nose
Is for a Lady's heart and yours to get close
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
Until tonight they were separate specialties,
different stories, the best of their own worst.
Riding my warm cabin home, I remember Betsy's
laughter; she laughed as you did, Rose, at the first
story. Someday, I promised her, I'll be someone
going somewhere and we plotted it in the humdrum
school for proper girls. The next April the plane
bucked me like a horse, my elevators turned
and fear blew down my throat, that last profane
gauge of a stomach coming up. And then returned
to land, as unlovely as any seasick sailor,
sincerely eighteen; my first story, my funny failure.
Maybe Rose, there is always another story,
better unsaid, grim or flat or predatory.
Half a mile down the lights of the in-between cities
turn up their eyes at me. And I remember Betsy's
story, the April night of the civilian air crash
and her sudden name misspelled in the evening paper,
the interior of shock and the paper gone in the trash
ten years now. She used the return ticket I gave her.
This was the rude kill of her; two planes cracking
in mid-air over Washington, like blind birds.
And the picking up afterwards, the morticians tracking
bodies in the Potomac and piecing them like boards
to make a leg or a face. There is only her miniature
photograph left, too long now for fear to remember.
Special tonight because I made her into a story
that I grew to know and savor.
A reason to worry,
Rose, when you fix an old death like that,
and outliving the impact, to find you've pretended.
We bank over Boston. I am safe. I put on my hat.
I am almost someone going home. The story has ended.
THE red rose whispers of passion,
And the white rose breathes of love;
O, the red rose is a falcon,
And the white rose is a dove.
But I send you a cream-white rosebud
With a flush on its petal tips;
For the love that is purest and sweetest
Has a kiss of desire on the lips
You look like a black rose
in full bloom.
Your pose and the clothes you wear
Make me stare.
I am entranced hypnotised by your glance
Your raven black hair flowing down your back
Your skin porcelain pale gleaming white
Under in the moons pale light
Your lips a black shade of night
Waiting to be kissed
(please don't resist)
I could list all the ways I love thee
and still not get close
Black rose I love you the most.
Consider
a girl who keeps slipping off,
arms limp as old carrots,
into the hypnotist's trance,
into a spirit world
speaking with the gift of tongues.
She is stuck in the time machine,
suddenly two years old sucking her thumb,
as inward as a snail,
learning to talk again.
She's on a voyage.
She is swimming further and further back,
up like a salmon,
struggling into her mother's pocketbook.
Little doll child,
come here to Papa.
Sit on my knee.
I have kisses for the back of your neck.
A penny for your thoughts, Princess.
I will hunt them like an emerald.
Come be my snooky
and I will give you a root.
That kind of voyage,
rank as a honeysuckle.
Once
a king had a christening
for his daughter Briar Rose
and because he had only twelve gold plates
he asked only twelve fairies
to the grand event.
The thirteenth fairy,
her fingers as long and thing as straws,
her eyes burnt by cigarettes,
her uterus an empty teacup,
arrived with an evil gift.
She made this prophecy:
The princess shall prick herself
on a spinning wheel in her fifteenth year
and then fall down dead.
Kaputt!
The court fell silent.
The king looked like Munch's Scream
Fairies' prophecies,
in times like those,
held water.
However the twelfth fairy
had a certain kind of eraser
and thus she mitigated the curse
changing that death
into a hundred-year sleep.
The king ordered every spinning wheel
exterminated and exorcised.
Briar Rose grew to be a goddess
and each night the king
bit the hem of her gown
to keep her safe.
He fastened the moon up
with a safety pin
to give her perpetual light
He forced every male in the court
to scour his tongue with Bab-o
lest they poison the air she dwelt in.
Thus she dwelt in his odor.
Rank as honeysuckle.
On her fifteenth birthday
she pricked her finger
on a charred spinning wheel
and the clocks stopped.
Yes indeed. She went to sleep.
The king and queen went to sleep,
the courtiers, the flies on the wall.
The fire in the hearth grew still
and the roast meat stopped crackling.
The trees turned into metal
and the dog became china.
They all lay in a trance,
each a catatonic
stuck in a time machine.
Even the frogs were zombies.
Only a bunch of briar roses grew
forming a great wall of tacks
around the castle.
Many princes
tried to get through the brambles
for they had heard much of Briar Rose
but they had not scoured their tongues
so they were held by the thorns
and thus were crucified.
In due time
a hundred years passed
and a prince got through.
The briars parted as if for Moses
and the prince found the tableau intact.
He kissed Briar Rose
and she woke up crying:
Daddy! Daddy!
Presto! She's out of prison!
She married the prince
and all went well
except for the fear -
the fear of sleep.
Briar Rose
was an insomniac...
She could not nap
or lie in sleep
without the court chemist
mixing her some knock-out drops
and never in the prince's presence.
If if is to come, she said,
sleep must take me unawares
while I am laughing or dancing
so that I do not know that brutal place
where I lie down with cattle prods,
the hole in my cheek open.
Further, I must not dream
for when I do I see the table set
and a faltering crone at my place,
her eyes burnt by cigarettes
as she eats betrayal like a slice of meat.
I must not sleep
for while I'm asleep I'm ninety
and think I'm dying.
Death rattles in my throat
like a marble.
I wear tubes like earrings.
I lie as still as a bar of iron.
You can stick a needle
through my kneecap and I won't flinch.
I'm all shot up with Novocain.
This trance girl
is yours to do with.
You could lay her in a grave,
an awful package,
and shovel dirt on her face
and she'd never call back: Hello there!
But if you kissed her on the mouth
her eyes would spring open
and she'd call out: Daddy! Daddy!
Presto!
She's out of prison.
There was a theft.
That much I am told.
I was abandoned.
That much I know.
I was forced backward.
I was forced forward.
I was passed hand to hand
like a bowl of fruit.
Each night I am nailed into place
and forget who I am.
Daddy?
That's another kind of prison.
It's not the prince at all,
but my father
drunkeningly bends over my bed,
circling the abyss like a shark,
my father thick upon me
like some sleeping jellyfish.
What voyage is this, little girl?
This coming out of prison?
God help -
this life after death?
Drift upon the breeze
like gentle whispers heard in the wind.
Taking you high through the trees
bringing you down low among the flowers.
You caress my cheek softly, gently.
I feel you, I know you are here.
Fly high my butterfly, fly high
I reach out, touch the velvety softness of your wing,
gracefully you glide into my outstretched hand.
Your wings dancing to the beat of my heart, .
a tender kiss of love for my aching soul.
I feel you, I know you are here.
Fly high my butterfly, fly high
The flight of gossamer dreams
are you, with your wings of yellow and blue.
You are what you seem,
the spirit of my beloved child, so true.
Comforting all who believe.
I feel you, I know you are here.
Fly high my butterfly, fly high
He
Fill your bowl with roses: the bowl, too, have of crystal.
Sit at the western window. Take the sun
Between your hands like a ball of flaming crystal,
Poise it to let it fall, but hold it still,
And meditate on the beauty of your existence;
The beauty of this, that you exist at all.
She
The sun goes down, -- but without lamentation.
I close my eyes, and the stream of my sensation
In this, at least, grows clear to me:
Beauty is a word that has no meaning.
Beauty is naught to me.
He
The last blurred raindrops fall from the half-clear sky,
Eddying lightly, rose-tinged, in the windless wake of the sun.
The swallow ascending against cold waves of cloud
Seems winging upward over huge bleak stairs of stone.
The raindrop finds its way to the heart of the leaf-bud.
But no word finds its way to the heart of you.
She
This also is clear in the stream of my sensation:
That I am content, for the moment, Let me be.
How light the new grass looks with the rain-dust on it!
But heart is a word that has no meaning,
Heart means nothing to me.
He
To the end of the world I pass and back again
In flights of the mind; yet always find you here,
Remote, pale, unattached . . . O Circe-too-clear-eyed,
Watching amused your fawning tiger-thoughts,
Your wolves, your grotesque apes -- relent, relent!
Be less wary for once: it is the evening.
She
But if I close my eyes what howlings greet me!
Do not persuade. Be tranquil. Here is flesh
With all its demons. Take it, sate yourself.
But leave my thoughts to me.
I want more lives in which to love
This world so full of beauty,
I want more days to use the ways
I know of doing duty;
I ask no greater joy than this
(So much I am life's lover,)
When I reach age to turn the page
And read the story over,
(Oh love stay near!)
Oh rapturous promise of the Spring!
Oh June fulfilling after!
If Autumns sigh, when Summers die,
'Tis drowned in Winter's laughter.
Oh maiden dawns, oh wifely noons,
Oh siren sweet, sweet nights,
I'd want no heaven could earth be given
Again with its delights,
(If love stayed near!)
There are such glories for the eye,
Such pleasures for the ear,
The senses reel with all they feel
And see and taste and hear;
There are such ways of doing good,
Such ways of being kind,
And bread that's cast on waters fast
Comes home again, I find.
(Oh love stay near.)
There are such royal souls to know,
There is so much to learn,
While secrets rest in Nature's breast
And unnamed stars still burn.
God toiled six days to make this earth,
I think the good folks say---
Six lives we need to give full meed
Of praise---one for each day,
(If love stay near.)
But oh! if love fled far away,
Or veiled his face from me,
One life too much, why then were such
A life as this would be.
With sullen May and blighted June
Blurred dawn and haggard night,
This dear old world in space were hurled
If love lent not his light.
(Oh love stay near.)
Despite the open window in the room of long absence, the odor of the rose is still linked with the
breath that was there. Once again we are without previous experience, newcomers, in love. The
rose! The field of its ways would dispel even the effrontery of death. No grating stands in the way.
Desire is alive, an ache in our vaporous foreheads.
One who walks the earth in its rains has nothing to fear from the thorn in places either finished or
unfriendly. But if he stops to commune with himself, woe! Pierced to the quick, he suddenly flies to
ashes, an archer reclaimed by beauty.
Caress
Wisdom’s
Blushing
Warmth
F or Love
Is
Indeed
The Sun’s
Frail Rose
Go, lovely rose!
Tell her that wastes her time and me
That now she knows,
When I resemble her to thee,
How sweet and fair she seems to be.
Tell her that's young,
And shuns to have her graces spied,
That hadst thou sprung
In deserts, where no men abide,
Thou must have uncommended died.
Small is the worth
Of beauty from the light retired;
Bid her come forth,
Suffer herself to be desired,
And not blush so to be admired.
Then die! that she
The common fate of all things rare
May read in thee;
How small a part of time they share
That are so wondrous sweet and fair!
Herself a rose, who bore the Rose,
She bore the Rose and felt its thorn.
All loveliness new-born
Took on her bosom its repose,
And slept and woke there night and morn.
Lily herself, she bore the one
Fair Lily; sweeter, whiter, far
Than she or others are:
The Sun of Righteousness her Son,
She was His morning star.
She gracious, He essential Grace,
He was the Fountain, she the rill:
Her goodness to fulfil
And gladness, with proportioned pace
He led her steps through good and ill.
Christ's mirror she of grace and love,
Of beauty and of life and death:
By hope and love and faith
Transfigured to His likeness, 'Dove,
Spouse, Sister, Mother,' Jesus saith.
179
If I could bribe them by a Rose
I'd bring them every flower that grows
From Amherst to Cashmere!
I would not stop for night, or storm—
Or frost, or death, or anyone—
My business were so dear!
If they would linger for a Bird
My Tambourin were soonest heard
Among the April Woods!
Unwearied, all the summer long,
Only to break in wilder song
When Winter shook the boughs!
What if they hear me!
Who shall say
That such an importunity
May not at last avail?
That, weary of this Beggar's face—
They may not finally say, Yes—
To drive her from the Hall?
I’ll tell you how the sun rose, -
A ribbon at a time.
The steeples swam in amethyst,
The news like squirrels ran.
The hills untied their bonnets,
The bobolinks begun.
Then I said softly to myself,
"That must have been the sun!"
But how he set, I know not.
There seemed a purple stile.
Which little yellow boys and girls
Were climbing all the while
Till when they reached the other side,
A dominie in gray
Put gently up the evening bars,
And led the flock away.
616
I rose—because He sank—
I thought it would be opposite—
But when his power dropped—
My Soul grew straight.
I cheered my fainting Prince—
I sang firm—even—Chants—
I helped his Film—with Hymn—
And when the Dews drew off
That held his Forehead stiff—
I met him—
Balm to Balm—
I told him Best—must pass
Through this low Arch of Flesh—
No Casque so brave
It spurn the Grave—
I told him Worlds I knew
Where Emperors grew—
Who recollected us
If we were true—
And so with Thews of Hymn—
And Sinew from within—
And ways I knew not that I knew—till then—
I lifted Him—
I rose up at the dawn of day--
`Get thee away! get thee away!
Pray'st thou for riches? Away! away!
This is the Throne of Mammon grey.'
Said I: This, sure, is very odd;
I took it to be the Throne of God.
For everything besides I have:
It is only for riches that I can crave.
I have mental joy, and mental health,
And mental friends, and mental wealth;
I've a wife I love, and that loves me;
I've all but riches bodily.
I am in God's presence night and day,
And He never turns His face away;
The accuser of sins by my side doth stand,
And he holds my money-bag in his hand.
For my worldly things God makes him pay,
And he'd pay for more if to him I would pray;
And so you may do the worst you can do;
Be assur'd, Mr. Devil, I won't pray to you.
Then if for riches I must not pray,
God knows, I little of prayers need say;
So, as a church is known by its steeple,
If I pray it must be for other people.
He says, if I do not worship him for a God,
I shall eat coarser food, and go worse shod;
So, as I don't value such things as these,
You must do, Mr. Devil, just as God please.
If I were a rose and you were a leaf,
the thorns would not grow upon my tree.
You would bask in the glory of beauty spent.
Content to reside where my heart went.
Daily collecting of sunshine you might...
My caress would fall like soft candlelight...
Savoring your soul until the darkest night.
We would grow together like the leaves from a vine.
Forever, my love, through the end of time.
Until December when the rose wilts away.
I will wait until the first blooms of May
Forsaking others for the burning within.
Only to chance have I become whole again.
Mixed with the spirit of a lover's light.
Together the lady and her poet knight.
If I were the rose and you were the leaf...
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
La tombe dit à la rose :
- Des pleurs dont l'aube t'arrose
Que fais-tu, fleur des amours ?
La rose dit à la tombe :
- Que fais-tu de ce qui tombe
Dans ton gouffre ouvert toujours ?
La rose dit : - Tombeau sombre,
De ces pleurs je fais dans l'ombre
Un parfum d'ambre et de miel.
La tombe dit : - Fleur plaintive,
De chaque âme qui m'arrive
Je fais un ange du ciel !
The Grave and the Rose
The Grave said to the Rose,
'What of the dews of dawn,
Love's flower, what end is theirs?'
'And what of spirits flown,
The souls whereon doth close
The tomb's mouth unawares?'
The Rose said to the Grave.
The Rose said, 'In the shade
From the dawn's tears is made
A perfume faint and strange,
Amber and honey sweet.'
'And all the spirits fleet
Do suffer a sky-change,
More strangely than the dew,
To God's own angels new,'
The Grave said to the Rose.
If I were gusty April now,
How I would blow at laughing Rose;
I'd make her ribbons slip their knots,
And all her hair come loose.
If I were merry April now,
How I would pelt her cheeks with showers;
I'd make carnations, rich and warm,
Of her vermillion flowers.
Since she will laugh in April's face
No matter how he rains or blows --
Then O that I wild April were,
To play with laughing Rose.
A flower was offered to me,
Such a flower as May never bore;
But I said 'I've a pretty rose tree,'
And I passed the sweet flower o'er.
Then I went to my pretty rose tree,
To tend her by day and by night;
But my rose turned away with jealousy,
And her thorns were my only delight.
35
Nobody knows this little Rose—
It might a pilgrim be
Did I not take it from the ways
And lift it up to thee.
Only a Bee will miss it—
Only a Butterfly,
Hastening from far journey—
On its breast to lie—
Only a Bird will wonder—
Only a Breeze will sigh—
Ah Little Rose—how easy
For such as thee to die!
No rose that in a garden ever grew,
In Homer's or in Omar's or in mine,
Though buried under centuries of fine
Dead dust of roses, shut from sun and dew
Forever, and forever lost from view,
But must again in fragrance rich as wine
The grey aisles of the air incarnadine
When the old summers surge into a new.
Thus when I swear, "I love with all my heart,"
'Tis with the heart of Lilith that I swear,
'Tis with the love of Lesbia and Lucrece;
And thus as well my love must lose some part
Of what it is, had Helen been less fair,
Or perished young, or stayed at home in Greece.
LESTENYT, lordynges, both elde and yinge,
How this rose began to sprynge;
Swych a rose to myn lykynge
In al this word ne knowe I non.
The Aungil came fro hevene tour,
To grete Marye with gret honour,
And seyde sche xuld bere the flour
That xulde breke the fyndes bond.
The flour sprong in heye Bedlem,
That is bothe bryht and schen:
The rose is Mary hevene qwyn,
Out of here bosum the blosme sprong.
The ferste braunche is ful of myht,
That sprang on Cyrstemesse nyht,
The sterre schon over Bedlem bryht
That is bothe brod and long.
The secunde braunche sprong to helle,
The fendys power doun to felle:
Therein myht non sowle dwelle;
Blyssid be the time the rose sprong!
The thredde braunche is good and swote,
It sprang to hevene crop and rote,
Therein to dwellyn and ben our bote;
Every day it schewit in prystes hond.
Prey we to here with gret honour,
Che that bar the blyssid flowr,
Che be our helpe and our socour
And schyd us fro the fyndes bond.
Lestenyt, lordynges, both elde and yinge,
How this rose began to sprynge;
Swych a rose to myn lykynge
In al this word ne knowe I non.
The aungil came fro hevene tour
To grete Marye with gret honour,
And seyde sche xuld bere the flour
That xulde breke the fyndes bond.
The flour sprong in heye Bedlem,
That is bothe bryht and schen:
The rose is Mary, hevene qwen,
Out of here bosum the blosme sprong.
The ferste braunche is ful of myht,
That sprong on Crystemesse nyht,
The sterre schon over Bedlem bryht
That is bothe brod and long.
The secunde braunche sprong to helle,
The fendys power doun to felle:
Therein myht non sowle dwelle;
Blyssid be the time the rose sprong!
The thredde braunche is good and swote,
It sprang to hevene, crop and rote,
Therein to dwellyn and ben our bote;
Every day it schewit in prystes hond.
Prey we to here with gret honour,
She that bar the blyssid flowr,
She be our helpe and our socour
And schyld us fro the fyndes bond.
O gather me the rose, the rose,
While yet in flower we find it,
For summer smiles, but summer goes,
And winter waits behind it.
For with the dream foregone, foregone,
The deed foreborn forever,
The worm Regret will canker on,
And time will turn him never.
So were it well to love, my love,
And cheat of any laughter
The fate beneath us, and above,
The dark before and after.
The myrtle and the rose, the rose,
The sunshine and the swallow,
The dream that comes, the wish that goes
The memories that follow!
A single flow'r he sent me, since we met.
All tenderly his messenger he chose;
Deep-hearted, pure, with scented dew still wet -
One perfect rose.
I knew the language of the floweret;
'My fragile leaves,' it said, 'his heart enclose.'
Love long has taken for his amulet
One perfect rose.
Why is it no one ever sent me yet
One perfect limousine, do you suppose?
Ah no, it's always just my luck to get
One perfect rose.
194
On this long storm the Rainbow rose—
On this late Morn—the Sun—
The clouds—like listless Elephants—
Horizons—straggled down—
The Birds rose smiling, in their nests—
The gales—indeed—were done—
Alas, how heedless were the eyes—
On whom the summer shone!
The quiet nonchalance of death—
No Daybreak—can bestir—
The slow—Archangel's syllables
Must awaken her!
A rose made of blood
where the thorn cruelly cuts me
blossoms in my palm.
I, a rose...made of flesh...blood
rivalling thorn's red flower.
*******
Thorn bleeds with my blood
pouring red into white rose
my humanity
unable to change Nature's
design - white rose remain...white.
******
I received the tangled hair...it is beautiful...thank you.
Ah, what avails the sceptred race!
Ah, what the form divine!
What every virtue, every grace!
Rose Aylmer, all were thine.
Rose Aylmer, whom these wakeful eyes
May weep, but never see,
A night of memories and sighs
I consecrate to thee.
Rose-cheek'd Laura, come,
Sing thou smoothly with thy beauty's
Silent music, either other
Sweetly gracing.
Lovely forms do flow
From concent divinely framed;
Heav'n is music, and thy beauty's
Birth is heavenly.
These dull notes we sing
Discords need for helps to grace them;
Only beauty purely loving
Knows no discord,
But still moves delight,
Like clear springs renew'd by flowing,
Ever perfect, ever in them-
Selves eternal.
Oh haste while roses bloom below,
Oh haste while pale and bright above
The sun and moon alternate glow,
To pluck the rose of love.
Yea, give the morning to the lark,
The nightingale its glimmering grove,
Give moonlight to the hungry dark,
But to man's heart give love!
Then haste while still the roses blow,
And pale and bright in heaven above
The sun and moon alternate glow,
Pluck, pluck the rose of love.
When they shall close my careless eyes
And look their last upon my face,
I fear that some will say: "her lies
A man of deep disgrace;
His thoughts were bare, his words were brittle,
He dreamed so much, he did so little.
When they shall seal y coffin lid
And this worn mask I know as ME,
Shall from the sight of man be hid
To all eternity -
Some one may say: "His sins were many,
His virtues - really, had he any?"
When I shall lie beneath my tomb,
Oh do not grave it with my name
But let one rose-bush o'er me bloom,
And heedless of my shame,
With velvet shade and loving laugh,
In petals write my epitaph.
Sweet water-moons, blown into lights
Of flying gold on pool and creek,
And many sounds and many sights
Of younger days are back this week.
I cannot say I sought to face
Or greatly cared to cross again
The subtle spirit of the place
Whose life is mixed with Rose Lorraine.
What though her voice rings clearly through
A nightly dream I gladly keep,
No wish have I to start anew
Heart fountains that have ceased to leap.
Here, face to face with different days,
And later things that plead for love,
It would be worse than wrong to raise
A phantom far too vain to move.
But, Rose Lorraine -- ah! Rose Lorraine,
I'll whisper now, where no one hears --
If you should chance to meet again
The man you kissed in soft, dead years,
Just say for once "He suffered much,"
And add to this "His fate was worst
Because of me, my voice, my touch" --
There is no passion like the first!
If I that breathe your slow sweet name,
As one breathes low notes on a flute,
Have vext your peace with word of blame,
The phrase is dead -- the lips are mute.
Yet when I turn towards the wall,
In stormy nights, in times of rain,
I often wish you could recall
Your tender speeches, Rose Lorraine.
Because, you see, I thought them true,
And did not count you self-deceived,
And gave myself in all to you,
And looked on Love as Life achieved.
Then came the bitter, sudden change,
The fastened lips, the dumb despair:
The first few weeks were very strange,
And long, and sad, and hard to bear.
No woman lives with power to burst
My passion's bonds, and set me free;
For Rose is last where Rose was first,
And only Rose is fair to me.
The faintest memory of her face,
The wilful face that hurt me so,
Is followed by a fiery trace
That Rose Lorraine must never know.
I keep a faded ribbon string
You used to wear about your throat;
And of this pale, this perished thing,
I think I know the threads by rote.
God help such love! To touch your hand,
To loiter where your feet might fall,
You marvellous girl, my soul would stand
The worst of hell -- its fires and all!
I. -- Red.
Would that my songs might be
What roses make by day and night --
Distillments of my clod of misery
Into delight.
Soul, could'st thou bare thy breast
As yon red rose, and dare the day,
All clean, and large, and calm with velvet rest?
Say yea -- say yea!
Ah, dear my Rose, good-bye;
The wind is up; so; drift away.
That songs from me as leaves from thee may fly,
I strive, I pray.
II. -- White.
Soul, get thee to the heart
Of yonder tuberose:  hide thee there --
There breathe the meditations of thine art
Suffused with prayer.
Of spirit grave yet light,
How fervent fragrances uprise
Pure-born from these most rich and yet most white
Virginities!
Mulched with unsavory death,
Grow, Soul! unto such white estate,
That virginal-prayerful art shall be thy breath,
Thy work, thy fate.
1.
Rose of beauty and fine appearance
And flower of happiness and pleasure,
lady of most merciful bearing,
And Lord for relieving all woes and cares;
Rose of roses and flower of flowers,
Lady of ladies, Lord of lords.  Rosa das rosas e Fror das frores,
Dona das donas, Sennor das sennores.
1.
Rosa de beldad' e de parecer
e Fror d'alegria e de prazer,
Dona en mui piadosa ser
Sennor en toller coitas e doores.
Rosa das rosas e Fror das frores,
Dona das donas, Sennor das sennores.
2.
Such a Mistress everybody should love,
For she can ward away any evil
And she can pardon any sinner
To create a better savor in this world.
Rose of roses and flower of flowers,
Lady of ladies, Lord of lords.
2.
Atal Sennor dev' ome muit' amar,
que de todo mal o pode guardar;
e pode-ll' os peccados perdõar,
que faz no mundo per maos sabores.
Rosa das rosas e Fror das frores,
Dona das donas, Sennor das sennores.
3.
We should love and serve her loyally,
For she can guard us from falling;
She makes us repent the errors
That we have committed as sinners:
Rose of roses and flower of flowers
Lady of ladies, Lord of lords.
3.
Devemo-la muit' amar e servir,
ca punna de nos guardar de falir;
des i dos erros nos faz repentir,
que nos fazemos come pecadores.
Rosa das rosas e Fror das frores,
Dona das donas, Sennor das sennores.
4.
This lady whom I acknowledge as my Master
And whose troubadour I'd gladly be,
If I could in any way possess her love,
I'd give up all my other lovers.
Rose of roses and flower of flowers,
Lady of ladies, Lord of lords.
4.
Esta dona que tenno por Sennore de que quero seer trobador,
se eu per ren poss' aver seu amor,
dou ao demo os outros amores.
Rosa das rosas e Fror das frores,
Dona das donas, Sennor das sennores.
A saturated meadow,
Sun-shaped and jewel-small,
A circle scarcely wider
Than the trees around were tall;
Where winds were quite excluded,
And the air was stifling sweet
With the breath of many flowers, --
A temple of the heat.
There we bowed us in the burning,
As the sun's right worship is,
To pick where none could miss them
A thousand orchises;
For though the grass was scattered,
yet every second spear
Seemed tipped with wings of color,
That tinged the atmosphere.
We raised a simple prayer
Before we left the spot,
That in the general mowing
That place might be forgot;
Or if not all so favored,
Obtain such grace of hours,
that none should mow the grass there
While so confused with flowers.
Rose, harsh rose,
marred and with stint of petals,
meagre flower, thin,
sparse of leaf,
more precious
than a wet rose
single on a stem --
you are caught in the drift.
Stunted, with small leaf,
you are flung on the sand,
you are lifted
in the crisp sand
that drives in the wind.
Can the spice-rose
drip such acrid fragrance
hardened in a leaf?
732
She rose to His Requirement—dropt
The Playthings of Her Life
To take the honorable Work
Of Woman, and of Wife—
If ought She missed in Her new Day,
Of Amplitude, or Awe—
Or first Prospective—Or the Gold
In using, wear away,
It lay unmentioned—as the Sea
Develop Pearl, and Weed,
But only to Himself—be known
The Fathoms they abide—
F Zeus chose us a King of the flowers in his mirth,
He would call to the rose, and would royally crown it;
For the rose, ho, the rose! is the grace of the earth,
Is the light of the plants that are growing upon it!
For the rose, ho, the rose! is the eye of the flowers,
Is the blush of the meadows that feel themselves fair,
Is the lightning of beauty that strikes through the bowers
On pale lovers that sit in the glow unaware.
Ho, the rose breathes of love! ho, the rose lifts the cup
To the red lips of Cypris invoked for a guest!
Ho, the rose having curled its sweet leaves for the world
Takes delight in the motion its petals keep up,
As they laugh to the wind as it laughs from the west.
XXXII
The first time that the sun rose on thine oath
To love me, I looked forward to the moon
To slacken all those bonds which seemed too soon
And quickly tied to make a lasting troth.
Quick-loving hearts, I thought, may quickly loathe;
And, looking on myself, I seemed not one
For such man's love!—more like an out-of-tune
Worn viol, a good singer would be wroth
To spoil his song with, and which, snatched in haste,
Is laid down at the first ill-sounding note.
I did not wrong myself so, but I placed
A wrong on thee. For perfect strains may float
'Neath master-hands, from instruments defaced,—
And great souls, at one stroke, may do and doat.
No rose that in a garden ever grew,
In Homer's or in Omar's or in mine,
Though buried under centuries of fine
Dead dust of roses, shut from sun and dew
Forever, and forever lost from view,
But must again in fragrance rich as wine
The grey aisles of the air incarnadine
When the old summers surge into a new.
Thus when I swear, "I love with all my heart,"
'Tis with the heart of Lilith that I swear,
'Tis with the love of Lesbia and Lucrece;
And thus as well my love must lose some part
Of what it is, had Helen been less fair,
Or perished young, or stayed at home in Greece.
SWEET PICTURE of Life's chequer'd hour!
Ah, wherefore droop thy blushing head?
Tell me, oh tell me, hap'less flow'r,
Is it because thy charms are fled?
Come, gentle ROSE, and learn from me
A lesson of Philosophy.
Thy scented buds, LIFE'S joys disclose;
They strew our paths with magic sweets;
Where many a thorn like thine, fair ROSE,
Full oft the weary wand'rer meets;
And when he sees thy charms depart,
He feels thy thorn within his heart.
When Morn's bright torch illum'd the sky,
Vainly thy flaunting buds display'd
Enamell'd leaves of crimson die,
Ill-fated blossoms doom'd to fade;
So 'tis with BEAUTY, hapless flow'r,
Its lustre blooms but for an hour.
Come blushing ROSE, and on my breast
Recline thy gentle head, and die;
Thy scatter'd leaves shall there be press'd,
Bath'd with a tear from PITY'S eye;
There shall thy balmy sweets impart
An essence grateful to my heart.
Thus SYMPATHY, with lenient pow'r,
Shall bid thy fading charms bestow
Soft odours for life's happy hour,
Kind, healing balsam for its woe!
If such thy virtues, ROSE DIVINE!
OH ! MAY THY ENVIED FATE BE MINE.
You’re really  fearless and want to hunt
You’re really want to make us to teach
You’re really lover of wild
You’re  really uncaring  it but to learn from it
You’re  really want to teach them.
You really  twisted order of the day
and shatter   mirror of terror
You make  efforts to peace
'Watching. Waiting. Carefully baiting.'
You belong to a brave leaders of the day
To you, it was you  who did it best
For you we learn  wild animal kingdom
You’re not  hide, pridely teach us to protect our pendant head
You’re  not mere  a crocodile hunter
Steve......
Not that filthy breed of reptilian...
A  rose bush   for you....
Has summer come without the rose,
Or left the bird behind?
Is the blue changed above thee,
O world! or am I blind?
Will you change every flower that grows,
Or only change this spot,
Where she who said, I love thee,
Now says, I love thee not?
The skies seemed true above thee,
The rose true on the tree;
The bird seemed true the summer through,
But all proved false to me.
THE angler rose, he took his rod,
He kneeled and made his prayers to God.
The living God sat overhead:
The angler tripped, the eels were fed
The Rose was sick, and smiling died;
And, being to be sanctified,
About the bed, there sighing stood
The sweet and flowery sisterhood.
Some hung the head, while some did bring,
To wash her, water from the spring;
Some laid her forth, while others wept,
But all a solemn fast there kept.
The holy sisters some among,
The sacred dirge and trental sung;
But ah!  what sweets smelt everywhere,
As heaven had spent all perfumes there!
At last, when prayers for the dead,
And rites, were all accomplished,
They, weeping, spread a lawny loom,
And closed her up as in a tomb.
The Grave said to the Rose,
"What of the dews of dawn,
Love's flower, what end is theirs?"
"And what of spirits flown,
The souls whereon doth close
The tomb's mouth unawares?"
The Rose said to the Grave.
The Rose said, "In the shade
From the dawn's tears is made
A perfume faint and strange,
Amber and honey sweet."
"And all the spirits fleet
Do suffer a sky-change,
More strangely than the dew,
To God's own angels new,"
The Grave said to the Rose.
That strain again? It seems to tell
Of something like a joy departed;
I love its mourning accents well,
Like voice of one, ah! broken-hearted.
That note that pensive dies away,
And can each answering thrill awaken,
It sadly, wildly, seems to say,
Thy meek heart mourns its truth forsaken.
Or there was one who never more
Shall meet thee with the looks of gladness,
When all of happier life was o'er,
When first began thy night of sadness.
Sweet mourner, cease that melting strain,
Too well it suits the grave's cold slumbers;
Too well the heart that loved in vain
Breathes, lives, and weeps in those wild numbers.
The last rose of summer lingers of a soft fragrance
as the days of summer fade into days only remembered
over the fires embers that stir yesterdays moment.
The last rose of summer whose beauty brought love and caring
in the cool evening breeze to a heart
touched briefly by its petals of soft color.
The last rose of summer that but briefly spoke of tenderness
to a heart in the stillness of the night
to be remembered in the quiet fragrance of a rose.
The last rose of summer whose petals are pressed to a book
hiding it's treasure of yesterdays love
remembering days held in time not to be forgotten.
'O WHICH is the last rose?'
A blossom of no name.
At midnight the snow came;
At daybreak a vast rose,
In darkness unfurl'd,
O'er-petall'd the world.
Its odourless pallor
Blossom'd forlorn,
Till radiant valour
Establish'd the morn--
Till the night
Was undone
In her fight
With the sun.
The brave orb in state rose,
And crimson he shone first;
While from the high vine
Of heaven the dawn burst,
Staining the great rose
From sky-line to sky-line.
The red rose of morn
A white rose at noon turn'd;
But at sunset reborn
All red again soon burn'd.
Then the pale rose of noonday
Rebloom'd in the night,
And spectrally white
In the light
Of the moon lay.
But the vast rose
Was scentless,
And this is the reason:
When the blast rose
Relentless,
And brought in due season
The snow rose, the last rose
Congeal'd in its breath,
Then came with it treason;
The traitor was Death.
In lee-valleys crowded,
The sheep and the birds
Were frozen and shrouded
In flights and in herds.
In highways
And byways
The young and the old
Were tortured and madden'd
And kill'd by the cold.
But many were gladden'd
By the beautiful last rose,
The blossom of no name
That came when the snow came,
In darkness unfurl'd--
The wonderful vast rose
That fill'd all the world.
The meaning of just one red rose
It's plain for all to see
It is just this, my love for you
And what it means to me
So take this rose and with it's love
Be mine, If near or far
Remember too my love for you
And stay the way you are
I miss you and the days grow long
When you are out of touch
So take this rose and always know
I love you dear, so much
Give a thought to me each day
Love as not passed you by
Feed your rose with teardrops
If to love me makes you cry
There will be no love stronger
A love known by so few
From the one, who gives you this red rose
And all it means to you
Good luck, good health, God bless dear
May I see you every day
Pray my love be always with you
Till the last rose, fades away.
ALL things uncomely and broken, all things worn out and old,
The cry of a child by the roadway, the creak of a lumbering cart,
The heavy steps of the ploughman, splashing the wintry mould,
Are wronging your image that blossoms a rose in the deeps of my heart.
The wrong of unshapely things is a wrong too great to be told;
I hunger to build them anew and sit on a green knoll apart,
With the earth and the sky and the water, re-made, like a casket of gold
For my dreams of your image that blossoms a rose in the deeps of my heart.
If you have seen a richer glow,
Pray, tell me where your roses blow!
Look! coral-leaved! and -- mark these spots
Red staining red in crimson clots,
Like a sweet lip bitten through
In a pique.  There, where that hue
Is spilt in drops, some fairy thing
Hath gashed the azure of its wing,
Or thence, perhaps, this very morn,
Plucked the splinters of a thorn.
Rose! I make thy bliss my care!
In my lady's dusky hair
Thou shalt burn this coming night,
With even a richer crimson light.
To requite me thou shalt tell --
What I might not say as well --
How I love her; how, in brief,
On a certain crimson leaf
In my bosom, is a debt
Writ in deeper crimson yet.
If she wonder what it be --
But she'll guess it, I foresee --
Tell her that I date it, pray,
From the first sweet night in May.
The red rose wept for long
Upon the autumn sad song
And then recovered from grief
And shattered the wet green leaf
The spring is there but the tears
Of lover, the autumn how bears
The little heart in search of charm
Is beating and beating and warm
The red rose is watching the gloom
Of the lover’s heart being in boom
His beloved had nodded him back
The rose from him she does not take
The nature feeling warmth is now cold
The autumn will take him in firm hold
The beauty will go leaving the scars
Of drowning moon and falling stars
The thorns will curse the rose to retreat
The red rose weeps on nature’s treat
It doesn’t matter what have gone
The rose will wait for the dawn
The spring no more helps the friend
His beauty will shatter like wall of sand
His days of life will end very soon
At morn, at noon or after noon
The rose sees autumn in the spring
A wave of sorrow his end will bring
The red rose weeps and weeps more
Upon these tears his eyes will sore
No spring can stop, no joy can amaze
With each passing moment his death he chase
So times are when autumn comes in spring
No joy can touch you no nerve can sing
February 16,2005
You offer me a red rose
The little prince loved her
I hold her carefully
Because of the thorns
I breathe your rose
And am transported
IF I were a bee and you were a rose,
Would you let me in when the gray wind blows?
Would you hold your petals wide apart,
Would you let me in to find your heart,
If you were a rose?
"If I were a rose and you were a bee,
You should never go when you came to me,
I should hold my love on my heart at last,
I should close my leaves and keep you fast,
If you were a bee."
Out of the seething cauldron of my woes,
Where sweets and salt and bitterness I flung;
Where charmed music gathered from my tongue,
And where I chained strange archipelagoes
Of fallen stars; where fiery passion flows
A curious bitumen; where among
The glowing medley moved the tune unsung
Of perfect love: thence grew the Mystic Rose.
Its myriad petals of divided light;
Its leaves of the most radiant emerald;
Its heart of fire like rubies. At the sight
I lifted up my heart to God and called:
How shall I pluck this dream of my desire?
And lo! there shaped itself the Cross of Fire!
The rose is a rose,
And was always a rose.
But the theory now goes
That the apple's a rose,
And the pear is, and so's
The plum, I suppose.
The dear only knows
What will next prove a rose.
You, of course, are a rose -
But were always a rose.
O flower at my window
Why blossom you so fair,
With your green and purple cup
Upturned to sun and air?
'I bloom, blithesome Bessie,
To cheer your childish heart;
The world is full of labor,
And this shall be my part.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O robin in the tree-top,
With sunshine on your breast,
Why brood you so patiently
Above your hidden nest?
'I brood, blithesome Bessie,
And sing my humble song,
That the world may have more music
From my little ones erelong.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O balmy wind of summer,
O silver-singing brook,
Why rustle through the branches?
Why shimmer in your nook?
'I flutter, blithesome Bessie,
Like a blessing far and wide;
I scatter bloom and verdue
Where'er my footsteps glide.'
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O brook and breeze and blossom,
And robin on the tree,
You make a joy of duty,
A pride of industry;
Teach me to work as blithely,
With a willing hand and heart:
The world is full of labor,
And I must do my part.
Whirl, busy wheel, faster,
Spin, little thread, spin;
The sun shines fair without,
And we are gay within.
O lesson well and wisely taught
Stay with me to the last,
That all my life may better be
For the trial that is past.
O vanity, mislead no more!
Sleep, like passions, long!
Wake, happy heart, and dance again
To the music of my song!
O summer days, flit fast away,
And bring the blithesome hour
When we three wanderers shall meet
Safe in our household flower!
O dear mamma, lament no more!
Smile on us as we come,
Your grief has been our punishment,
Your love has led us home.
All things uncomely and broken,
All things worn-out and old,
The cry of a child by the roadway,
The creak of a lumbering cart,
The heavy steps of the ploughman,
splashing the wintry mould,
Are wronging your image that blossoms
A rose in the deeps of my heart.
The wrong of unshapely things
Is a wrong too great to be told;
I hunger to build them anew
And sit on a green knoll apart,
With the earth and the sky and the water,
Remade, like a casket of gold
For my dreams of your image that blossoms
A rose in the deeps of my heart.
ROSE of all Roses, Rose of all the World!
The tall thought-woven sails, that flap unfurled
Above the tide of hours, trouble the air,
And God's bell buoyed to be the water's care;
While hushed from fear, or loud with hope, a band
With blown, spray-dabbled hair gather at hand,
Turn if you may from battles never done,
I call, as they go by me one by one,
Danger no refuge holds, and war no peace,
For him who hears love sing and never cease,
Beside her clean-swept hearth, her quiet shade:
But gather all for whom no love hath made
A woven silence, or but came to cast
A song into the air, and singing passed
To smile on the pale dawn; and gather you
Who have sougft more than is in rain or dew,
Or in the sun and moon, or on the earth,
Or sighs amid the wandering, starry mirth,
Or comes in laughter from the sea's sad lips,
And wage God's battles in the long grey ships.
The sad, the lonely, the insatiable,
To these Old Night shall all her mystery tell;
God's bell has claimed them by the little cry
Of their sad hearts, that may not live nor die.
Rose of all Roses, Rose of all the World!
You, too, have come where the dim tides are hurled
Upon the wharves of sorrow, and heard ring
The bell that calls us on; the sweet far thing.
Beauty grown sad with its eternity
Made you of us, and of the dim grey sea.
Our long ships loose thought-woven sails and wait,
For God has bid them share an equal fate;
And when at last, defeated in His wars,
They have gone down under the same white stars,
We shall no longer hear the little cry
Of our sad hearts, that may not live nor die.
The moon is now an opening flower,
The sky a cliff of blue.
The moon is now a silver rose;
Her pollen is the dew.
Her pollen is the mist that swings
Across her face of dreams:
Her pollen is the April rain,
Filling the April streams.
Her pollen is eternal life,
Endless ambrosial foam.
It feeds the swarming stars and fills
Their hearts with honeycomb.
The earth is but a passion-flower
With blood upon his crown.
And what shall fill his failing veins
And lift his head, bowed down?
This cup of peace, this silver rose
Bending with fairy breath
Shall lift that passion-flower, the earth
A million times from Death!
IF Michael, leader of God's host
When Heaven and Hell are met,
Looked down on you from Heaven's door-post
He would his deeds forget.
Brooding no more upon God's wars
In his divine homestead,
He would go weave out of the stars
A chaplet for your head.
And all folk seeing him bow down,
And white stars tell your praise,
Would come at last to God's great town,
Led on by gentle ways;
And God would bid His warfare cease,
Saying all things were well;
And softly make a rosy peace,
A peace of Heaven with Hell.
WHO dreamed that beauty passes like a dream?
For these red lips, with all their mournful pride,
Mournful that no new wonder may betide,
Troy passed away in one high funeral gleam,
And Usna's children died.
We and the labouring world are passing by:
Amid men's souls, that waver and give place
Like the pale waters in their wintry race,
Under the passing stars, foam of the sky,
Lives on this lonely face.
Bow down, archangels, in your dim abode:
Before you were, or any hearts to beat,
Weary and kind one lingered by His seat;
He made the world to be a grassy road
Before her wandering feet.
The Rose was given to man for this:
He, sudden seeing it in later years,
Should swift remember Love's first lingering kiss
And Grief's last lingering tears;
Or, being blind, should feel its yearning soul
Knit all its piercing perfume round his own,
Till he should see on memory's ample scroll
All roses he had known;
Or, being hard, perchance his finger-tips
Careless might touch the satin of its cup,
And he should feel a dead babe's budding lips
To his lips lifted up;
Or, being deaf and smitten with its star,
Should, on a sudden, almost hear a lark
Rush singing up­the nightingale afar
Sing through the dew-bright dark;
Or, sorrow-lost in paths that round and round
Circle old graves, its keen and vital breath
Should call to him within the yew's bleak bound
Of Life, and not of Death.
See, Mignonne, hath not the Rose,
That this morning did unclose
Her purple mantle to the light,
Lost, before the day be dead,
The glory of her raiment red,
Her colour, bright as yours is bright?
Ah, Mignonne, in how few hours,
The petals of her purple flowers
All have faded, fallen, died;
Sad Nature, mother ruinous,
That seest thy fair child perish thus
‘Twixt matin song and even tide.
Hear me, my darling, speaking sooth,
Gather the fleet flower of your youth,
Take ye your pleasure at the best;
Be merry ere your beauty flit,
For length of days will tarnish it
Like roses that were loveliest.
I.
Sweet serene skye-like Flower,
Haste to adorn her Bower :
From thy long clowdy bed,
Shoot forth thy damaske head.
II.
New-startled blush of Flora !
The griefe of pale Aurora,
Who will contest no more ;
Haste, haste, to strowe her floore.
III.
Vermilion Ball that's given
From lip to lip in Heaven ;
Love's Couches cover-led :
Haste, haste, to make her bed.
IV.
Dear Offspring of pleas'd Venus,
And Jollie, plumpe Silenus ;
Haste, haste, to decke the Haire
Of th' only, sweetly Faire.
V.
See ! Rosie is her Bower,
Her floore is all this Flower ;
Her Bed a Rosie nest
By a Bed of Roses prest.
VI.
But early as she dresses,
Why fly you her bright Tresses ?
Ah ! I have found I feare ;
Because her Cheekes are neere.
Beneath my chamber window
Pierrot was singing, singing;
I heard his lute the whole night thru
Until the east was red.
Alas, alas Pierrot,
I had no rose for flinging
Save one that drank my tears for dew
Before its leaves were dead.
I found it in the darkness,
I kissed it once and threw it,
The petals scattered over him,
His song was turned to joy;
And he will never know--
Alas, the one who knew it!
The rose was plucked when dusk was dim
Beside a laughing boy.
A ROSE, as fair as ever saw the North,
Grew in a little garden all alone;
A sweeter flower did Nature ne'er put forth,
Nor fairer garden yet was never known:
The maidens danced about it morn and noon,
And learned bards of it their ditties made;
The nimble fairies by the pale-faced moon
Water'd the root and kiss'd her pretty shade.
But well-a-day! - the gardener careless grew;
The maids and fairies both were kept away,
And in a drought the caterpillars threw
Themselves upon the bud and every spray.
God shield the stock! If heaven send no supplies,
The fairest blossom of the garden dies.
Did you hear about the rose that grew from a crack in the concrete?
Proving nature's law is wrong it learned to walk with out having feet.
Funny it seems, but by keeping it's dreams, it learned to breathe fresh air.
Long live the rose that grew from concrete when no one else ever cared.
'O WORDS are lightly spoken,'
Said Pearse to Connolly,
'Maybe a breath of politic words
Has withered our Rose Tree;
Or maybe but a wind that blows
Across the bitter sea.'
'It needs to be but watered,'
James Connolly replied,
'To make the green come out again
And spread on every side,
And shake the blossom from the bud
To be the garden's pride.'
'But where can we draw water,'
Said Pearse to Connolly,
'When all the wells are parched away?
O plain as plain can be
There's nothing but our own red blood
Can make a right Rose Tree.'
FAR-OFF, most secret, and inviolate Rose,
Enfold me in my hour of hours; where those
Who sought thee in the Holy Sepulchre,
Or in the wine-vat, dwell beyond the stir
And tumult of defeated dreams; and deep
Among pale eyelids, heavy with the sleep
Men have named beauty.  Thy great leaves enfold
The ancient beards, the helms of ruby and gold
Of the crowned Magi; and the king whose eyes
Saw the pierced Hands and Rood of elder rise
In Druid vapour and make the torches dim;
Till vain frenzy awoke and he died; and him
Who met Fand walking among flaming dew
By a grey shore where the wind never blew,
And lost the world and Emer for a kiss;
And him who drove the gods out of their liss,
And till a hundred moms had flowered red
Feasted, and wept the barrows of his dead;
And the proud dreaming king who flung the crown
And sorrow away, and calling bard and clown
Dwelt among wine-stained wanderers in deep woods:
And him who sold tillage, and house, and goods,
And sought through lands and islands numberless years,
Until he found, with laughter and with tears,
A woman of so shining loveliness
That men threshed corn at midnight by a tress,
A little stolen tress.  I, too, await
The hour of thy great wind of love and hate.
When shall the stars be blown about the sky,
Like the sparks blown out of a smithy, and die?
Surely thine hour has come, thy great wind blows,
Far-off, most secret, and inviolate Rose?
To sighs of morning air, that froze,-
(With her lips opened for a say),
How curiously has smiled the rose
On a September fleeting day!
And how has she ever dared
To greet, with air of springy queens,
The single blue-tit, in the bare
Shrubs fleshing in the orb of wings;
To bloom with steadfast dream that later,
Just leaving her cold bed in rest,
She’ll cling, the last and dissipated,
To a young hostess’s charming breast!
O Rose, thou art sick!
The invisible worm
That flies in the night,
In the howling storm,
Has found out thy bed
Of crimson joy:
And his dark secret love
Does thy life destroy.
The wide Pacific waters
And the Atlantic meet.
With cries of joy they mingle,
In tides of love they greet.
Above the drowned ages
A wind of wooing blows: —
The red rose woos the lotos,
The lotos woos the rose . . .
The lotos conquered Egypt.
The rose was loved in Rome.
Great India crowned the lotos:
(Britain the rose's home).
Old China crowned the lotos,
They crowned it in Japan.
But Christendom adored the rose
Ere Christendom began . . .
The lotos speaks of slumber:
The rose is as a dart.
The lotos is Nirvana:
The rose is Mary's heart.
The rose is deathless, restless,
The splendor of our pain:
The flush and fire of labor
That builds, not all in vain. . . .
The genius of the lotos
Shall heal earth's too-much fret.
The rose, in blinding glory,
Shall waken Asia yet.
Hail to their loves, ye peoples!
Behold, a world-wind blows,
That aids the ivory lotos
To wed the red red rose!
The white rose and the red rose,
So sisters two were named, yes, named.
The white one was so quiet,
The red one laughed and flamed.
But different was their doing, yes,
When came the time of wooing, yes.
The white one turned so red, so red,
The red one turned so white.
For him the red one favored,
Him father would not bless, not bless.
But him the white one favored,
He got at once his 'Yes.'
The red one now was paling, yes,
With sorrow, psalms, and wailing, yes.
The white one turned so red, so red,
The red one turned so white.
Then father grew so fearful
And had to give his 'Yes,' oh, yes!
With songs and music cheerful
The wedding rang, oh, yes!
And soon sprang children rosen, yes,
In shoes and little hosen, yes.
The red one's, they were white,-and oh,
The white one's, they were red.
From the depths of the green garden-closes
Where the summer in darkness dozes
Till autumn pluck from his hand
An hour-glass that holds not a sand;
From the maze that a flower-belt encloses
To the stones and sea-grass on the strand
How red was the reign of the roses
Over the rose-crowned land!
The year of the rose is brief;
From the first blade blown to the sheaf,
From the thin green leaf to the gold,
It has time to be sweet and grow old,
To triumph and leave not a leaf
For witness in winter's sight
How lovers once in the light
Would mix their breath with its breath,
And its spirit was quenched not of night,
As love is subdued not of death.
In the red-rose land not a mile
Of the meadows from stile to stile,
Of the valleys from stream to stream,
But the air was a long sweet dream
And the earth was a sweet wide smile
Red-mouthed of a goddess, returned
From the sea which had borne her and burned,
That with one swift smile of her mouth
Looked full on the north as it yearned,
And the north was more than the south.
For the north, when winter was long,
In his heart had made him a song,
And clothed it with wings of desire,
And shod it with shoon as of fire,
To carry the tale of his wrong
To the south-west wind by the sea,
That none might bear it but he
To the ear of the goddess unknown
Who waits till her time shall be
To take the world for a throne.
In the earth beneath, and above
In the heaven where her name is love,
She warms with light from her eyes
The seasons of life as they rise,
And her eyes are as eyes of a dove,
But the wings that lift her and bear
As an eagle's, and all her hair
As fire by the wind's breath curled,
And her passage is song through the air,
And her presence is spring through the world.
So turned she northward and came,
And the white-thorn land was aflame
With the fires that were shed from her feet,
That the north, by her love made sweet,
Should be called by a rose-red name;
And a murmur was heard as of doves,
And a music beginning of loves
In the light that the roses made,
Such light as the music loves,
The music of man with maid.
But the days drop one upon one,
And a chill soft wind is begun
In the heart of the rose-red maze
That weeps for the roseleaf days
And the reign of the rose undone
That ruled so long in the light,
And by spirit, and not by sight,
Through the darkness thrilled with its breath,
Still ruled in the viewless night,
As love might rule over death.
The time of lovers is brief;
From the fair first joy to the grief
That tells when love is grown old,
From the warm wild kiss to the cold,
From the red to the white-rose leaf,
They have but a season to seem
As rose-leaves lost on a stream
That part not and pass not apart
As a spirit from dream to dream,
As a sorrow from heart to heart.
From the bloom and the gloom that encloses
The death-bed of Love where he dozes
Till a relic be left not of sand
To the hour-glass that breaks in his hand;
From the change in the grey garden-closes
To the last stray grass of the strand,
A rain and ruin of roses
Over the red-rose land.
This rose - red, scented, rich, without price  –
is it speaking to me?
I cannot hear what it says. And yet…
is it watching me?
it does not blink. And yet…
is it urging me to action?
it gives no sign. And yet…
this rose – so gloriously – is…
so does it know all this?
is it beyond all this?
for while I watch it
and wait for an answer
I know myself more.
perhaps the rose
is not the answer
but the question
and I the answer
and the answerer
Tis the last rose of summer
Left blooming alone;
All her lovely companions
Are faded and gone:
No flower of her kindred,
No rose-bud is nigh,
To reflect back her blushes,
Or give sigh for sigh.
I'll not leave thee, thou lone one!
To pine on the stem;
Since the lovely are sleeping,
Go, sleep thou with them.
Thus kindly I scatter
Thy leaves o'er the bed,
Where thy mates of the garden
Lie scentless and dead.
So soon may I follow,
When friendships decay,
And from Love's shining circle
The gems drop away.
When true hearts lie wither'd,
And fond ones are flown,
Oh! who would inhabit
This bleak world alone?
When I laid aside the verses of Mimnermus,
I lived a life of canned heat and raw hands,
alone, not far from my body did I wander,
walked with a hope of a sudden dreamy forest of gold.
O rose, downfallen, bend your huge vegetic back;
eye down the imposter sun...in winter dream
sulk your rosefamed head into the bile of golden giant,
ah, rose, augment the rose further still!
whence upon that self-created dive in Eden
you blossomed where the Watchmaker of Nothingness
lulled,
your birth did cause bits of smashed night to pop,
causing my dreamy forest to unfold.
Yes, and the Watchmaker, his wheely-flesh
and jewelled-bones spoiled as he awoke,
and in the face of your Somethingness, he fled
waving oblivious monks in his unwinded hands.
The sun cannot see upheaved spatics, the tennis of Venus
and the court of Mars sing the big lie of the sun,
ah, faraway ball of fur, sponge up the elements;
make clear the trees and the mountains of the earth,
arise and turn away from the vast fixedness.
Rose! Rose! my tinhorneared rose!
Rose is my visionic eyehand of all Mysticdom
Rose is my wise chair of bombed houses
Rose is my patient electric eyes, eyes, eyes, eyes,
Rose is my festive jowl,
Dali Lama Grand Vicar Glorious Caesar rose!
When I hear the rose scream
I gather all the failure experiments of an anatomical empire
and, with some chemical dream, discover
the hateful law of the earth and sun, and the screaming
rose between.
I.
Sweet serene skye-like flower,
Haste to adorn her bower;
From thy long clowdy bed
Shoot forth thy damaske head.
II.
New-startled blush of FLORA!
The griefe of pale AURORA,
Who will contest no more,
Haste, haste, to strowe her floore.
III.
Vermilion ball, that's given
From lip to lip in Heaven;
Loves couches cover-led,
Haste, haste, to make her bed.
IV.
Dear offspring of pleas'd VENUS,
And jollie plumpe SILENUS;
Haste, haste, to decke the haire,
Of th' only sweetly faire.
V.
See! rosie is her bower,
Her floore is all this flower;
Her bed a rosie nest
By a bed of roses prest.
VI.
But early as she dresses,
Why fly you her bright tresses?
Ah! I have found, I feare;
Because her cheekes are neere.
Go, happy Rose, and interwove
With other flowers, bind my Love.
Tell her, too, she must not be
Longer flowing, longer free,
That so oft has fetter'd me.
Say, if she's fretful, I have bands
Of pearl and gold, to bind her hands;
Tell her, if she struggle still,
I have myrtle rods at will,
For to tame, though not to kill.
Take thou my blessing thus, and go
And tell her this,--but do not so!--
Lest a handsome anger fly
Like a lightning from her eye,
And burn thee up, as well as I!
Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days!
Come near me, while I sing the ancient ways:
Cuchulain battling with the bitter tide;
The Druid, grey, wood-nurtured, quiet-eyed,
Who cast round Fergus dreams, and ruin untold;
And thine own sadness, where of stars, grown old
In dancing silver-sandalled on the sea,
Sing in their high and lonely melody.
Come near, that no more blinded hy man's fate,
I find under the boughs of love and hate,
In all poor foolish things that live a day,
Eternal beauty wandering on her way.
Come near, come near, come near -- Ah, leave me still
A little space for the rose-breath to fill!
Lest I no more bear common things that crave;
The weak worm hiding down in its small cave,
The field-mouse running by me in the grass,
And heavy mortal hopes that toil and pass;
But seek alone to hear the strange things said
By God to the bright hearts of those long dead,
And learn to chaunt a tongue men do not know.
Come near; I would, before my time to go,
Sing of old Eire and the ancient ways:
Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days.
I asked my heart to say
Some word whose worth my love's devoir might pay
Upon my Lady's natal day.
Then said my heart to me:
`Learn from the rhyme that now shall come to thee
What fits thy Love most lovingly.'
This gift that learning shows;
For, as a rhyme unto its rhyme-twin goes,
I send a rose unto a Rose.
After the movie, when the lights come up,
He takes her powdered hand behind the wings;
She, all in yellow, like a buttercup,
Lifts her white face, yearns up to him, and clings;
And with a silent, gliding step they move
Over the footlights, in familiar glare,
Panther-like in the Tango whirl of love,
He fawning close on her with idiot stare.
Swiftly they cross the stage. O lyric ease!
The drunken music follows the sure feet,
The swaying elbows, intergliding knees,
Moving with slow precision on the beat.
She was a waitress in a restaurant,
He picked her up and taught her how to dance.
She feels his arms, lifts an appealing glance,
But knows he spent last evening with Zudora;
And knows that certain changes are before her.
The brilliant spotlight circles them around,
Flashing the spangles on her weighted dress.
He mimics wooing her, without a sound,
Flatters her with a smoothly smiled caress.
He fears that she will someday queer his act;
Feeling his anger. He will quit her soon.
He nods for faster music. He will contract
Another partner, under another moon.
Meanwhile, 'smooth stuff.' He lets his dry eyes flit
Over the yellow faces there below;
Maybe he'll cut down on his drinks a bit,
Not to annoy her, and spoil the show. . .
Zudora, waiting for her turn to come,
Watches them from the wings and fatly leers
At the girl's younger face, so white and dumb,
And the fixed, anguished eyes, ready for tears.
She lies beside him, with a false wedding-ring,
In a cheap room, with moonlight on the floor;
The moonlit curtains remind her much of spring,
Of a spring evening on the Coney shore.
And while he sleeps, knowing she ought to hate,
She still clings to the lover that she knew,--
The one that, with a pencil on a plate,
Drew a heart and wrote, 'I'd die for you.'
A rose can say I love you and want you to be mine,
A rose can say I thank you for being so very kind,
A rose can say congratulations, whatever the occasion may be,
A rose can say I miss you and wish you were here with me,
A rose can say I'm sorry if I've hurt you in any way,
A rose can say get well soon, May God bless you today,
A rose can say I wish you happiness, and the best for you each day.
A rose can say farewel when someone goes away,
A rose can say hello, I'm thinking of you today,
There's just so many wonderful things that a rose can say,
A rose can say goodbye when a love one is laid to rest,
No matter what there is to say, a rose can say it best.
When the rose is faded,
Memory may still dwell on
Her beauty shadowed,
And the sweet smell gone.
That vanishing loveliness,
That burdening breath,
No bond of life hath then,
Nor grief of death.
'Tis the immortal thought
Whose passion still
Makes the changing
The unchangeable.
Oh, thus thy beauty,
Loveliest on earth to me,
Dark with no sorrow, shines
And burns, with thee.
2day is 90 days clean and serene,
I'm heading home 2morrow but im scared if you know what i mean...
How will i deal with things?
Ya know the problems that LIFE brings...
What happens when that desire comes back,
Will i ever be able to relax,
I've let my guard down and accepted the fact...
Im weak but im strong,
The past 90 days were hard and long...
But i feel great!
90 days and running...
My mind is focused...im finaly straight!
90 days and running...
I turned my life around, to me this is stunning,
Even though this disease is cunning...
Im 90 days clean,
So its a foot race,
I can look at myself face to face...
90 days and running...
90 days and running...
wish me luck...ill need it
p.s
thanks Millie your poem 'three months with out you' inspired me to write this...............
Noticed I was all alone today
But realized I never felt alone
Now I can log on the computer
Instead of going for the phone
It's wonderful when people visit
And I love my phone calls too
But now I have this special place
To come and visit with all of you
I can take the extra time in here
To say it with a poem or rhyme
To sit and think what's in my soul
Where I am not hurried for time
Things I would never say in person
For it's easier to say in written words
Because you my internet friends
Have heard what no one else has heard
I can come to you with anything
No matter how silly, real or unreal
You're always there to show you care
And just let me express how I feel
It seems it is easier to talk to you
Than with any one else that I know
For I can let my guard down here
And let all of my emotions show
So I thank you all for being here
And I count you as treasured friends
I hope I will always be here for you
And I pray this kinship never ends
When the bare feet of the baby beat across the grass
The little white feet nod like white flowers in the wind,
They poise and run like ripples lapping across the water;
And the sight of their white play among the grass
Is like a little robin’s song, winsome,
Or as two white butterflies settle in the cup of one flower
For a moment, then away with a flutter of wings.
I long for the baby to wander hither to me
Like a wind-shadow wandering over the water,
So that she can stand on my knee
With her little bare feet in my hands,
Cool like syringa buds,
Firm and silken like pink young peony flowers.
At least he's not causing pollution of him that would be fair to say
He runs to the work yard in the morning and back home at the end of the day
A distance of some twelve kilometres that is six kilometres each way
A fitness fanatic and a hard working fellow for him never an easy pay.
Wearing running road shoes and shorts and a light vest he carries his working gear in his backpack
He runs to the work yard every morning and after work to home runs back
A man in his thirties with a wife and teenage daughters he is a few years past his prime
He never does work at the weekends and he never does work overtime.
One who has run in many marathons and he always finishes his race
his last marathon was his best finish just beaten by the winner into second place
Still he is one I do not envy and him I've no wish to emulate
I could not push myself like he does I have no desire to be great.
Just before daybreak in the morning he is one you are bound to meet
He runs to his workplace in the Suburbs on the sidewalk from street to street
To running he does seem addicted he works hard and he runs every day
Whilst others in their their beds are sleeping through the suburbs to works he jogs his way.
Strike me right to the heart...
Why am I feeling so insecure..
Pieces on the wall, start to tear.
puzzle pieces, no longer there.
Thoughts continue to scare..
Is it still there?
If you ask me..
I kno my part is..
I'm feeling like running..
should've started packing..
no more falling..
I stand, watching the time go by..
with every second..
You remain in my mind.
mixed thoughts,
heart starts shaking.
hands trembling..
Eyes resting..
Theres only one..
just one..
no one else..
but you..
insecure with the thoughts that remain..
Feeling like running,
Should've started packing..
But I dont feel like leaving..
For that.. I am staying..
I'll watch it blow up in my face..
I'll watch it rejuvenate..
Whatever it is..
Theres no running away.
Trailing thunders in a swipe..
Hundreds chatting, hundreds eating
Within the boundary of my running
Along each count of a bogie..
Next sec
Racing brain mutes like a yogi
Standing still to realise
Could there be a more perfect reason
for a great guy like you
to possibly like me back
or even love me
to attract people from my outside
and make them run from what
I seem to hold within me
I never seem, to get them to stay
you look at me with wantings eyes
wanting me to let you in
I let you see pieces and letting you think
that you are completly in
but are you?
are you willing to stay when things get roough?
and hold me when things fall apart?
to be there to whipe my tears?
so many questions, so many doughts
will you run like so many befroe?
I love you with all of my heart
do you?
After 15 shots of whiskey I puked right on the floor
Asked the bartender for another he said dont come back no more
And then the mutant bouncers they grabbed me off my feet
I barely put up a struggle as they threw me out onto the street
Threw a rock right at there window and vomited once more
I stumbled fell and crawled untill I bumped into this whore
She said now sugar you dont look so good would you like to see my pink
I said well maybe later but for now I need something to drink
She pointed in the direction of a pub called running bull
They'll pump you up with whiskey till your livers completely full
With a prayer up to Saint Mary I made it miraculosly to the door
And when that door had opened I seen something Ive never seen before
I seen angels devils and lizards sharing bottles and singing song
Each and every bottle was a Jameson so I knew that I belong
I ordered a shot of Jameson the shot glass was as big as my head
I asked if I died and went to heaven they said no son your not dead
You had made it to your new favorite pub a place called running bull
The only pub in new york city that will have your liver full
He is running or a limping walk?
How far he runs?
He is tired and stopped!
And how long he could wait?
Promises are like gas-balloons in the sky.
He straightens a rickety ladder and climbs the greasy steps carefully
To pluck the cluster grapes.
A run away rabies infected fox pulls the ladder and cries down;
'Life is nothing but only a fistful of bitter grapes.'
To my dear friend Jerry for his promising health and also to Max.Reif and Dennis.Joe of their lull.
*[ It's really funny and strange, still I remember what the poor street lunatic said a long time ago after seeing my crotchety palm; 'Hey! My comrade keep your toy gun aside and you are not belongs to your motherland anymore.Your natural death will occurs in a foreign land some day.]
Too soon comes Autumn, as nipping the heels
Of unwary Summer, it stealthily seals
Small changes in heavily leaf-laden trees.
Summer fruits begin dropping, balanced astride
Branches festooned, in which Autumn takes hide
Before battle commences it's shivery breeze
Which scatters browned leaves, to bring to their knees
Beaten down Summer days of warm ease.
Autumn comes running, nor waits to abide
While brave Summer blooms adjust to it's ride.
It tosses, relentless, all 'Summer' it sees
Havocing treetops, nor does it allay
It's mischievous goadings for yet one more day.
Scurrying birds sense each warning of chill.
Consistently peck around my window-sill,
Fattening on seeds before temperatures freeze.
Autumn comes running
To stay.
Today while driving a rural road
just a few minutes from my house,
I saw a black dog running toward me on
the right shoulder of the road,
Although it was but a split-second,
the black dog’s eyes met mine…
I asked myself;
Where is he going?
What’s his name?
What’s his purpose?
What does he think about?
What does he feel?
Is the black dog a metaphor for me?
I asked myself:
Where am I going?
What’s my name?
What’s my purpose?
What do I think about?
What do I feel?
Am I a metaphor for the black dog?
How does the black dog help balance nature?
How do I help balance nature?
I then realized,
The black dog and I were,
one and the same!  Two creatures,
defining the present and future in
any given moment with our aliveness!
“Life, not purpose is what really matters”
I glanced at the rear view mirror
and saw the black dog grow
smaller and smaller,
His tail was happily wagging,
and seemed to say…
“Glad to see that you finally get it, Ray”
ROTMS
My soul wants to fly away
Riding on a brilliant ray
To a land of oblivion
Where Im known by no one
Just live my life in peace
No one to hurt no one to please
Away from the complexities
That this life brings to its crease
But then I think why run away
The road does get rough in its way
But it also streteches out in a straight road
It may be long but you do reach your  abode
As long as you dont hurt anyone knowingly
Absorb the ride, its highs and lows in totality
Pain is a part of the road and will make you realize
Feel it, endure it and it will help you rise
clouds're running past
running after clouds
the Storm Day
Dr. Death, aka Jack Kevorkian, is running for congress,
He is running for the 9th District seat in Michigan,
The incumbent Republican,
Joe Knollenberg to unseat
Jack is 79, and he looks like death warmed over,
He’ll be lucky to make to November,
He has to have 3,000 signatures for his name to be put on the ballot,
To bad he assisted suicides in many of his supporters,
-at least 130 of them.
His lawyer, Mayer Morganroth, is mum on the word,
His previous lawyer, Geoffery Feiger,
Argued that the society did not have The Knack to follow Dr. Death’s thinking.
They Shoot Horses Don’t They?
Was the contention.
Maybe he can assist the Democratic Party its fray,
To lead to a new direction.
They seem destined for a self destruct convention.
(3-12-2008)
Ho! green fields and running brooks!
Knotted strings and fishing-hooks
Of the truant, stealing down
Weedy backways of the town.
Where the sunshine overlooks,
By green fields and running brooks,
All intruding guests of chance
With a golden tolerance,
Cooing doves, or pensive pair
Of picnickers, straying there--
By green fields and running brooks,
Sylvan shades and mossy nooks!
And--O Dreamer of the Days,
Murmurer of roundelays
All unsung of words or books,
Sing green fields and running brooks!
sunlight on
rotting chestnut
little insects run  separate ways
inspired by:
lightning
in a chestnut shell
the evening rain
I am running my fingers
Through your hair
And your hair
Feels so
Soft
Like silk
I am sick of running away
From the rain
And at the same time
I am beeing a fool
Because the rain
Can't hurt me
Running, running
There is nothing lef to do.
Running...
Away from my tears
Away from my pen
Running to know who I,
am.
Running
But you, don't know what,
You're,
Running from.
Running in circles
Going nowhere.
I'm saying Goodbye
I am runnning away.
Never stop runnning
Words running throught,
My mind.
Running away,
Like the coward,
Like him
Horrible words
I am running and runnning,
For you.
I m running but to where?
I can't believe
That I've put up with you lies.
Im running from the past..
Running out the pain.
Running with out you.
I'm running out of time
I'm as low as i can get.
I'm running out of time
No-ones noticed yet!
I'm running out of time
To face my fears and lies.
I'm running out of time
To say all my goodbyes.
I'm running out of time
To tell him how i feel.
I'm running out of time
This love, it makes me ill.
I'm running out of time
To achieve something in my life.
I'm running out of time
To be a mother or a wife.
I'm running out of time
I cant trust anymore.
I'm running out of time
I'm now running out the door! ! !
im running out things to say
[im running out of lies]
im running out trust
[im running out of spies]
im running out of love
[im running out of hopes]
im running out of dreams
[im running out of silent screams]
im starting to get tired of running toward you
so i guess ill just start running away
never stop running
never stop moving forward
even if your friends leave you
helpless and alone
even if you have no place
you can call home
never stop running
your race to success
or wherever you are going
because your race
makes you shine
and keeps you glowing
never stop running
never stop moving forward
even when you suffer a loss
leaving you crying sad
even when you make a mistake
leaving you insanely mad
never stop running
your race to satisfaction
or wherever you may venture
because your race
is a triumphant adventure
that keeps you glowing
never stop running
never stop moving forward
even when you lose your energy
leaving you so very tired
even when you lose your will
to keep running the course
NEVER stop running!
your race to the finish
your race to completion
because your race
is what keeps you going
your race keeps you glowing
I'm not running in fear,
I'm gonna stay right here!
I disregard your threat,
Because I have no regret!
I'm cutting your strings,
'Cause I've found my wings!
I'll fly through this storm,
Then you'll face my scorn!
So sit back and have your laugh,
I guarantee it'll be your last!
In the slums of Tondo, people dwell
in shacks of cardboard, bits of bamboo,
corrugated metal, and a few cement blocks.
They come from all the provinces--
a farmer’s son from Cagayan,
a coal miner from Bulacan,
a field hand from the banana plantations
of Davao. They come to Manila
for work, for better pay.
The highest incidence of men
running amok is in Tondo,
or at least, that’s what the local tabloids
have for headlines every week. Amok in Tondo
kills seven! Police shoot him to death!
During the Filipino-American War
from 1900 to 1902, the Colt .45 pistol
was refined to kill crazed
Moro fighters who ran amok
and would not stop attacking
with rabid animal urgency
when shot with bullets of lesser caliber.
The superstitious old women in Tondo say
that no rice, no shoes, and no work
breed beetles and violence.
They say that small black beetles
can lay eggs in a man’s ear,
and this is what makes a man run.
running away
from honesty
not touching
anything
not touched too
by anyone
you keep on
running and
running away?
no one is reached
no one reaches
for you
you keep on running
and running away
from no one
but yourself because
what you touch
bites you
and what you love
is always a stone
thrown at you
and so you keep on
running and running away
from honesty
and having gained speed
you have become the
fastest lie
that even the winds of
the northern seas
cannot catch even
a glimpse of
who you are.
There are days when you feel
you are going to get so much done.
So much for good intentions.
When you start to get
the old run around.
It seems that life
is going around in circles.
What started as a lead ahead
now has you thirty yards behind.
You feel like you should have stayed in bed
and got up the other side,
but you don’t.
Instead, you persevere
to go running round in circles
all the day long.
19 February 2008
Deciding to come out of hiding,
To run away...
From what's inside,
Kept still denied.
But then...
Why does one keep believing,
Running from something...
Frees.
Deciding to come out of hiding,
To run away...
From what's inside,
Kept still denied.
But then...
Why does one keep believing,
Running from something...
Frees.
So many do it thinking...
Running from something frees.
And keep a pace believed...
A running from something frees.
To only feel defeated,
By a running with no relief.
So many do it thinking...
Running from something frees.
And keep a pace believed...
A running from something frees.
To only feel defeated,
By a running with no relief.
Deciding to come out of hiding,
To run away...
From what's inside,
Kept still denied.
But then...
Why does one keep believing,
Running from something...
Frees.
So many do it thinking...
Running from something frees.
And keep a pace believed...
A running from something frees.
To only feel defeated,
By a running with no relief.
So many do it thinking...
Running from something frees.
And keep a pace believed...
A running from something frees.
To only feel defeated,
By a running with no relief.
It's hard to stop it but...
A running away doesn't free.
Those who have stop it know...
A running away doesn't free.
Believe or not...
Whatever isn't dropped,
Will continue to come knocking.
Oh....
A running away doesn't free.
Those who have stop it know...
A running away doesn't free.
Believe or not...
Whatever isn't dropped,
Will continue to come knocking.
Oh....
A running away doesn't free.
No. No. No...
A running away doesn't free.
There is no doubt about it...
Running away doesn't free.
White
silk scarf
waves
in her
wake - the train
of her
gown.
Crossing
fields of wheat,
her feet are scorched
by flames of
sunset.
She
escapes.
< br>Fly away
if love
is
a gold
cage.
Running away from problems she is
While she is driving
Her sports car
In the highway
This is a perfect day
To go on a ride
In her sports car
Fierce fight
No respite
Harsh words
Hard blows
Biting silence
Guilty conscience
No reconciliation
Pulsing tension
Rumpled hair
Sullen face
Crumpled clothes
Tearful eyes
Heavy heart
Swollen bag
Walking away
No turning back
I am running away.
5th November 2006
I considered running away today,
To leave all my worries behind,
I considered running away today,
Then I changd my mind.
I thought about running away today,
How could I get there fast?
I thought about running away today,
That plan didnt last.
I am going to run away today,
I've had enough of my life here,
Packed my bags to run away today,
Didn't go because of fear.
I got up and ran away today,
Jumped on a train to Waterloo,
But while I was away today,
I realised I missed you.
I wont be coming home today,
I'm starting my life new
Even though I wont be home today,
Remember, I love you!
Running away
That's what I'll do
Run away,
Away from you
I'll run a million miles
And sail the ocean blue
I'll do anything
To get Away from you
I'll battle a rattle snake
I'll stab it with this stake
I'll do whatever it takes
I'll be out on the street
With nothing to eat
I'll end up probably dead
With an injury on my head
It doesn't matter Because You'll be
Far away from me
So much anger is about to surface
So much hate. Toleration is deteriorating. Black soul. No soul
Doing for others while they do nothing for me except take.
I won’t give myself to you. You take me while I slumber
Awake now. In the bathroom I see, know, and feel what was done to me
I can say nothing. This I know. All will say it was “invited”. My fault
Dreams flooded with horrid visions. Words are blurred. Let me be
There is no more that I want to see
There is nowhere left for me to be
In my mind, I’m running away from me
Your dreams
Tell me
That your real
Your answers never lie.
So
Tell me
Why you run away,
How do you feel inside?
Trot, trot, slap, slap, trot, trot, slap, slap
lone highway, it is hot
and lots of inner strength on tap
a marathon it's not.
Those training runs I used to do
in early morning cool
and never wear a single shoe
some neighbours call me fool.
Thick fog one day. I could not see
the houses as I passed
my energy was running free
inside, though, I was gassed.
That barbecue with chilli beans
and Weihenstephan beer
had given me (through carbs)  the means
to run in seventh gear.
But, beans explode and leave behind
the puff of fifty dragons
on contact insects do go blind
the sound is like Volkswagens.
In front of a most stately home
a thunderbolt shot out
it scared a handsome garden gnome
and there she stood, a Kraut!
'Zo, doo yoo ssink it helps yoo runn
much faaster ssroo ze bresher? '
'Oh no', I said it is pure fun
and after I feel fresher.'
She nodded then, as if to think
when, once again, it blew
I gave a small but playful wink
as if I had a clou.
A cloud had formed around the place
I made my get-away
a crimson red was on my face
I could no longer stay.
With all the speed at my command
I sprinted through the fog
Behind, the words 'I underschdand
yoo faaard und runn like dogg! '
I run
Barefoot and cold
Wanting to go where nobody has ever gone
To the moon or maybe even the stars
They all seem so far
But I'll find the right Place
Where I'll sit and wait
And hope and pray
That all these bad thoughts will go away
But I highly doubt it,
Because these memories are here to stay,
Untill they go black and fade away
Boat
Run...
On the sea...
On the wave...
The world we know is far from free
Her children live in fear
We’ve lost The Truth and fail to see
The reason why we’re here
We’re running here we’re chasing there
Searching both night and day
Whilst God has Heaven’s wealth to share
With those who Christ obey
But who can see the facts displayed
Or hear The Master’s voice
Why is the heart and soul dismayed
When darkness stays our choice
Like fools we choose satanic wares
Through lust we seek self-gain
When trapped within life’s evil snares
We let the devil reign
So now God’s voice is seldom heard
Where lies have filled the mind
We listen to our neighbour’s word
Who self is lost and blind
Not always is it Satan’s blame
As in the past believed
We choose ourselves a life of shame
Claiming we were deceived
No liar’s reach The Promised Land
No sin from God can hide
We need The Truth to understand
Why Jesus came and died
We must repent from walking dead
Return to life once more
Rise up from Satan’s lustful bed
And lock to him our door
running circles in the dark
wanting nothing but the pain to stop
wishing my life would depart
i scream but no one hears me
like no one can see
wishing some one could try and help me
but no one likes me
so how can they try and love me
i mean who esle can i be
so ill stay here forever
running circles in the dark
with my life falling apart
im in a place where the pain will never stop
running circles in the dark
Deep as my love runs so runs yours too.
Caught at the point of the centre, our hearts,
Beating deep, retreat further as true
Love and devotion merge. No more apart,
Our souls meld, then reappear, fired as one.
We are the same, identical aims run
Along a joined vein of life. Desires become
Cemented in needs of the other. Some
Days the pulsing of you fills my spirit
With rivers of longing. When will you come
And claim what's your own?  I must inhibit
The joy of that day, but as summer shone
Bright over my clouded life then, so  rain
Your love deep, flood me with sunshine again.
your eyes running away...
never to see any thing...
except my face...
and only you feel within it...
because i am who gave them,
a meaning of a vision...
before they created...
No. That was you!
'No it wasn't...
It was you! '
No, you!
'No...
That was you! '
~And what are they doing over there? ~
*They prepare for the conventions coming up.*
~Well...
They seem to represent the people.
Nothing will get done.
And the one who wants to do that,
Will be labelled a liberal.
And those conservative will say...
The country is too far left!
And those on the right are religiously opposed! ~
*Remember those days,
When the choice made was just to vote?
Now you have these folks,
Who claim to represent our causes...
And protect our well being and quality of life!
Now they want us to believe they are running for 'sainthood'.
And those with the lesser of clipped wings...
Will deliver all our needs,
Tax free!
And we are going to be foolish enough...
Not to see through this crap they've got us trapped in! '
no...
not now
this cant be happening to me
its chasing me
the shadow gets closer
i look into it
i see the red eyes
the horns
i must run
death is after me
its too early
my life has been so short
its only started to get good
ive experienced so little
now i'm at the mercy of this beast
i must escape
i try to run
but my legs tire fast
my will fades
then i trip
i break my shin on a rock
the pain
it burns like if i were thrown into the sun
blood runs from my leg
pours all over the ground
i look back
the beast is still chasing me
i get up
i feel my bones shift inside my leg
it tears my flesh
i fall back down
i can no longer feel half my leg
it only hangs off of a bit of skin
lifelessly
i cant just sit here
the beast is coming
its getting closer
tears running from my cheeks
i fear that this may be it
i feel myself growing weak
but i must continue
i try to crawl
pain surging through my body with every movement
no!
i scrape my chest on a sharp rock
death still charging at me
my wounds pour out even more blood
i cant avoid it
death is racing toward me
i sob in tears
my face covered in scarlet
i lie helplessly
i think over my life
look for a good memory
i try to make my last breath last
but pain is too strong
my chest pain burns with intensity
then somehow
my body bursts into flames
the sky rains fire
my hands burn with rage
i cannot put them out
pain so terrible
i weep at the sight of my wounds
the beast is almost near
my hope fades away
my passions are obliterated
i cant stop the beast
my hands turn to ash
the fire now burns my bones
the fire creeps up my arms
my leg pours out blood
my heart is failing
i lie helplessly
in pain as death creeps up on me
i try to scream
but blood creeps into my throat
and i choke, and cough
i cannot breathe
i turn my head to the side
i see something
i try to focus in
i see a light
a beautiful light
so beautiful
as the beast takes my life
i look upon this beauty in awe
and i feel completed
i am ready...
Why do I feel this way always
I always wish to be free and to fly away
I try to get away from my captors
But they catch me every time
I run from depression, sadness and grief
But they catch me every time
They won’t let me go
I have no reason to stay with them
To feel them
But they won’t let me go
They hold me so close I can hardly breathe
Sometimes I think to end it so I will be free
But I realize to be free that way is the end
No way I can be free and experience what I want to that way
I always run towards happiness but I hardly ever reach it
Depression won’t let me go
No one can free me
No one notices my chains
One day I will be free from bondage one way or another
Running game.
As if this lame routine
Isn't known or seen,
For what it is!
From one door stop to another
This practice has no depth,
Or sincerety upon its delivery.
It just travels to be played.
Amazing those who watch
Others allowing it to continue,
With supportive encouragement...
And donated loyalty!
There is nothing in it for them at all.
It has become tradition...
And that matters more than substance!
Big George, enthusiast in Sports,
a budding athlete, well of sorts,
placed in his running shoes small springs
it was as if he'd grown some wings.
He bounced in leaps and lept in bounds,
completed fourteen extra rounds.
This shows a man can hardly lose
with little gadgets in his shoes.
Horrible past
Hoping for a good future
Tears in her eyes
Running to the preacher
Asking for advice in the end gaining none
Shes a fearful polar bear sitting in the sun
Trying to hurry and get on with life
She hates the attention, but loves to tell lies
Tries to make things better
But they only turn out worse
The role she's been playing
Plenty a' times rehearsed
Moot is her thinking
Testy is her soul
This running girl is running trying to find her fairy tale
And everyone is screaming
Wait look back at what you've missed
You've tried to zoom thru life not even pausing for a kiss
You're children are grown
You're husband in a nursing home
You all alone
Afraid to answer the telephone
Scared of love and afraid of being touched
Raped and abused in her past
Told she was worth to none
A running girl who never stop's to see who she has hurt
She never planned out her dreams
Always told she was dirt
Wrinkles in her face
Yet she still thinks she's twenty-one
Running girl stop running
Your shoes cant go on
You always wanted a mother
A father just to hold
A house she'd always stay in
No bags to pack and move
All she ever knew was how to run
She never looked away from her path
Never gazed up at the sun
Her children needed her but she struggled
to make it thru the day
Running girl slow down and listen to what your family has to say
Go see your husband and call your children too
Stop running, running girl
You cant afford another pair of shoes
A shaky hand on the horn,
Other on the gear.
A ear listening music,
Cell phone in the other ear.
A trembling foot on accelerator,
Other on the clutch,
Unsettled mind and clumsy eyes,
On scantily clad girls.
Welcome to a fast running nation,
Driven by fools and jokers,
On bumpy and dumpy roads,
Pulling the nation for untimely doom.
Sick, secular, tottering leaders,
Salute this deceitful spirit,
Welcome to a nation minus nationalism,
This is the wonder that is India.
From:
DR. Yogesh SHARMA
I saw an ole familiar face
My heart beat very fast
Soon our eyes met each other
We were both back in the past
It was many years ago
When we were young and free
I though the sun rose in her eyes
She though she was in love with me
We were so very happy
Together doing our thing
Bothering with no one else
Just reading the I Ching
But as the years passed us
We both moved on
Each going our own way
The feelings were long gone
I hadn’t thought of her in years
But now she stands before me
The days and years that have gone by
Have helped to make me see
We passed the time with small talk
But soon it was time to leave
What I once wanted so badly
Turned out to be what I didn’t need
11-15-05/RKh
© 10-23-10/RJH
Running into the light
Because I want
To catch the
Heat of the sun
All over my body
Running away isn't as easy as it seems.
There's no deserted mountain waiting when you come,
no peaceful fountain to drink from.
The stars won't be convenient at night,
they won't lead you down by the river to rest.
The hanging moon won't be fluoresced.
No, running away is no means of escape,
it will only bring you closer to fear and failure.
Those who want to get away from their problems
must never run away, but learn to endure.
cat
play dog
with out
run...
cat play
rat
with run...
run is not play
life is play...
hear...
She's shallow and easily programmed.
And maybe that has something to do
With the size of the state she represents.
And that's not sexist at all.
When it comes to speaking about issues, facts and truths...
Her eyes aren't as focused.
In fact...
There seems to be deception hidden behind them!
As they seem to be when she repeats her beefed up resumé.
Making her the obvious choice he could have made,
As a running mate!
Moderate or conservative...
Or whatever those folks call themselves today.
'Right wingers who aren't liberal.
You know...
Those who pack guns, hunt and race cars.
And talk about how patriotic they are.
With isolated values,
They insist should be everyone's standard for life.'
She ran on
into the storm
the last shreds of her
designer clothes
shrieking out to sea
terrifying the gulls
'I'm free...I'm free! '
she screamed nakedly.
The divorce papers(that
had finally come through)
tore themselves apart &
flew...flew...to the four
unfurling her fury
(laced with lightnings)
she conducted the storm
in a fine frenzy.
Nature's orchestra
drawing her to this
crescend of self.
'Bloody tourists! '
bellowed the blustering
one man & his dog.
The dusk is down on the river meadows,
The moon is climbing above the fir,
The lane is crowded with creeping shadows,
The gorse is only a distant blur;
The last of the light is almost gone,
But hark! They're running!
They're running on !
The count of the years is steadily growing;
The Old give way to the eager Young;
Far on the hill is the horn still blowing,
Far on the steep are the hounds still strung.
Good men follow the good men gone;
And hark! They're running!
They're running on!
My squirlbush is an undercover spy--
Hidden under a grand aka...
Writing the baiting words for surrender...
Is for him just a day of game play;
He alerted me to the awareness of potpan...
Squirlbush directed my eyes--
Into the direction of boxes...
Thank God for undercover spies;
Thank you Squirlbush  for the alarm...
Sending the ammonia far far away--
Clobhammer knows hes in hot water today--
Scalded-but wonder if he still can come out and play.
That's not going to do it!
Bring another.
Bring another.
Bring another.
Bring another!
Bring another.
Bring another
And another.
~Sir!
I know you are professional at this.
And you have the experience.
But...
Wouldn't it be more economical,
If something more like a tourniquet was used?
The bandages are dwindling.
And...
We're running out of our supply of lies! ~
They did not understand his smile
Or the quick pacing of his steps.
They did not understand
Why rumors did not affect him!
Neither gossip nor slander
Seemed to bother him at all!
And when they threw him out...
Locking the door behind him,
They were amazed to discover him...
Laughing and swinging on the swing,
In the backyard!
They could not sleep at night...
Even medicated!
Why?
They questioned!
Why is he doing 'this' to US?
And no one thought to change the locks!
And 'he' had the key!
He also owned the house and the property!
And he knew...
They were living on borrowed time!
His!
They believed they were doing him a favor,
By gracing him with 'their' presence!
And he enjoyed them not knowing...
He was running out of patience!
Without even a by -your –leave
the Future came in
sat down & grinned: “Right...
I’m here...now where do we begin.? ”
“Whowhatwherewhyhow! ”
I positively blustered.
“Stop blustering you idiot! You’re beginning to spit!
& as for this certain IT...you’ve been waiting for
...it’s already begun to happen...hasn’t it?
Now, just get on with it! ”
Who was I to argue?
I was only the Past Imperfect
with nothing but the Present
to stand up in
and this was
...the Future Tense.
The Future smiled at me
as if it were...one step
ahead of me
all the time.
and I stumbled after it
trying to keep up
in its belief in me.
“I guess it’s Time! ”
The Future said
& lead me to myself.
“Well, get on with it! ”
Running to understand.
Running to know who I am.
Running to be alone.
Running to be able to groan.
Running to get to you.
Running to see what you do.
Running to get away.
Running where I won’t betray.
Running always
It’s who I am.
Running always
For you my Beloved.
That dark figure running –
Sprinting ahead – is not your friend,
just a solitary shadow playing pretend.
It’s your secrets, your hopes and all your fears.
It’s your infectious laugh, and your uncried tears.
All your wishes and all your dreams,
being smothered by your static screams.
He holds, in a package under his arm,
your spark, your wit, your fun and charm.
All bundled up, and wrapped with a bow,
as you just stand and watch it go.
Everything stolen - over and done,
Desperate to save it, but you just can’t run.
He rounds the corner, your world goes dark,
a disposable lighter, unable to spark.
That dark figure running –
Sprinting ahead – is not your friend.
It was your future.
Forever through the darkness.
Wind whipping like pain through your heart,
Unable to stand, unable to sit.
You keep running on and on and on.
Silent footsteps trace your route
Through the darkness you're running on foot.
SIlently floating the followers are.
They know why you're running and they know where you are.
You've ran so far
Yet you've ran so little.
You'll never escape so don't even try.
The followers know where your planning to hide.
Bury them deep but they will come back.
The longer you ignore them the harder they'll track;
Along the roads to follow you,
Floating around you in everything you do.
Yet I'm still running in the darkness
Running through the night.
Running out the pain
Running without a light.
I'm running from my tears,
And I'm running from my cries.
I'm running from my friends,
And I'm running from my life.
Everyone I've hurt,
And everyone whose cared.
Everyone whose tried,
And everyone whose dared.
Everything I've done,
And every time I've tried.
Everything I've said,
And every time I've cried.
As I run into the dark,
As I run from the light.
Who will guide me through?
And who will make this right?
Why should I stop?
Why should I slow down?
When all that waits for me,
Is a lonely heart that's drowned.
So who am I?
What have I become?
But a stranger in the night,
A man who is on the run.
Who will care?
And who will try?
Who will understand?
And who will just walk by?
As the rain rolls in,
And every ones in bed,
I'm out on this road,
And I'm walking straight ahead.
To the start of tomorrow it waits
for the night of today
to fade.
Running away from adulthood,
Being chased by points of authority,
Not understanding,
Still seeing and hearing to much for innocent eyes,
Running away from adulthood,
Being rushed, being pushed into adulthood,
I dont feel ready,
Being chased by points of authority,
I dont know what I'm thinking,
I have no plan,
No organisation,
No hope,
Im just running away from adulthood,
Doing anything to push back the moment when,
I have to grow up,
I dont feel ready,
Being watched by over observant eyes,
Waiting for my ultimate slip up,
The slip that will give reality leave to,
Kick me in the teeth,
Nothing has changed,
I falter,
I fall,
As you can see,
Nothings changed at all,
I run from adulthood,
i get chased by points of authority,
Getting rushed, getting pushed into adulthood,
Being forced to 'grow up! '
Im not ready,
I dont want to take this step,
Its much to big,
And yet,
When i am being over parented,
Trapped by points of authority,
Trapped in situations that i cant be bothered with,
I welcome adulthood with open arms,
But im still not ready.
Do you ever run?
Run with bare feet
Run against the wind
Run and feel you could fly
Run till your breath’s lost
Do you ever run?
Run carrying your heart
Run to avoid tears falling
Run and doesn’t care where to go
Run till your knees breaking
Do you ever run?
Run with all determination
Run to reach the sky
Run and try to catch the lack of time
Run till everything blurred into one
Do you ever run?
Run from all your fear
Run further away abandoning the world
Run and never turn back again
Run till the darkness swallowing
RUN! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
running away
like a cat
trying to
catch its
own tail,
keep on running
try catching
a shadow
keep on running
sweat out
the feeling of
air and breeze
and smoke and fog
all whipped up
by this wind
keep running
pursue the reasons
why one must keep running
does it really help
you cope up
with what you are leaving?
Running race was over;
Rabbit was musing hard
How come he lost to her?
Shameful and sad; so bad
As outside darkness spread
From inside of his heart,
He met her in her nest;
Asked how she managed that
Tortoise smiled and said:
Over those drinks you had,
Inside those pumping talks,
Last night two pills I packed!
28th May 2009
Running Running
away from my tears
away from my pain
away from my fears
away from my shame
away from my peers
Running Running
ill be with you there
ill make you happy
Ill be your right pair
Rnning Running
i wish i was gay
i wish for that happiness
i wish? must i may?
Running Running
im running so fast
away from my family
away from my past
running running
i am so ashamed
i am so embarrassed
im a bottle of pain
I'm burning all my bridges and I'm running out of time
If I'd had just one more minute I could have somehow made you mine,
But as it is, im broken and im falling to the ground,
Im weightless, empty, and nothing I say makes a sound.
Baby please tell me that you want me so maybe this writers block will ease.
There was a time I would have told you that without you i cant breathe.
Oh but darling my ego is fragile and its only getting worse.
These easy words and my cruel detachment is my long suffered curse
A silent tear falls to the ground
She hides in her place, not making a sound.
Grief had invaded her body for years
And now it was time for her to face her fears.
She cut her wrists and covered her eyes
And whispered that today was the day she dies.
She stared at herself through the glass
Then punched the mirror to get rid of her past.
The glass fell softly onto the floor
She stared at her fist then ran out the door.
She ran down the hallway really fast
But she could not run away from her past.
After thinking, she gave up on life
She went to the room and got a knife.
She said her goodbyes as she took one last breath
Then slit her throat deep and the blood surrounded her death.
One thing that girl should have known
Is that she would be dead and alone.
And that you can’t escape death or life,
In that one spot where her blood stays on the knife.
So where there is a silent tear
And where there is blood to shed
She will be there to put their misery
To An End
As we run this finite race of life
To the finish line in swiftness of soul,
We undress ourselves of the baggage of strife
Take love in our steps to reach our goal.
Forgetting whatever lies behind
We set our hearts on the eternal price
Fixing our eyes on Jesus we find
His strength and power in us will arise.
As we number our days like fleeting mist
And our frailty of body declaring
The end line maybe right here in our midst
Our life may be in for a proper accounting.
For Death like a Thief always comes uninvited
And will cut through the race with his sickle
The call may come quick and be quite unexpected
Taking us suddenly out of the hurdle.
So let go of all sin and feelings of hate,
Be free of desires for material things,
Release and forgive before it's too late
The hourglass of life goes on emptying.
For the brevity of life is but a single breath
And we all will take flight as a bird
A destiny set for men to meet Death
Running only on the promise of God's Word.
'Show me, O Lord, my life's end
and the number of my days;
let me know how fleeting is my life.
You have made my days a mere handbreath;
the span of my years mean nothing to You.
Each man's life is but a breath.'
Psalm 39: 4-5
----------------
Copyright  Cynthia Buhain-Baello
Tralac City Philippines 2008
As I came over Windy Gap
They threw a halfpenny into my cap.
For I am running to paradise;
And all that I need do is to wish
And somebody puts his hand in the dish
To throw me a bit of salted fish:
And there the king is but as the beggar.
My brother Mourteen is worn out
With skelping his big brawling lout,
And I am running to paradise;
A poor life, do what he can,
And though he keep a dog and a gun,
A serving-maid and a serving-man:
And there the king is but as the beggar.
Poor men have grown to be rich men,
And rich men grown to be poor again,
And I am running to paradise;
And many a darling wit's grown dull
That tossed a bare heel when at school,
Now it has filled a old sock full:
And there the king is but as the beggar.
The wind is old and still at play
While I must hurty upon my way.
For I am running to paradise;
Yet never have I lit on a friend
To take my fancy like the wind
That nobody can buy or bind:
And there the king is but as the beggar.
Running in a race,
But not the same past,
I wish i could go faster,
But my body wont let me,
Like im tied in chains,
And the pain is to insane,
Running till I fly,
But my wings wont let me,
Like a bird with dislodged wings,
Running In Place,
Even Though Im Comming In Late,
And I bit to much on the plate.
Why do you why,
never bending, over it?
Could you not simply,
as you would and should
with it?
And comes the blame,
does it not often help lay
windblown there,
some where,
lost in the middle of it?
Whisper then each kiss,
and moreover it wading
after running out of water.
Trapped in submission,
Sumberged in this condition,
Trapped in a shell,
I wish I could quell.
To be free is a dream,
To have what I desire is a wish.
Where can I go,
Where will this path lead,
From this shell I'll never grow,
From this body I won't stop to bleed.
Running with wolves,
An impossible dream,
A most wanted wish.
This shell hiding the beast inside,
I walk in skin,
He talks to me as a guide,
He is my friend, my opposite, my twin.
For him to break free,
What a day that would be,
Until...I abide,
Always there yet he hides inside.
The burning sensation,
To howl,
To run,
To feel the fascination.
Though I feel no fur,
Scratch no claws,
Run no forest,
Howl no song.
My dreams keep me in fascination,
They drive the sensation,
The wolf inside keeps me alive,
The running of the wolves makes me thrive.
In my dream
I dream I am you
running wolf
As you run through
the valleys of truth
I see the dew
I see the trees
as though I am you
I see through your eyes
I feel your fears
I feel your heart beating
I see indians dancing
round fires of peace
I see the fears
of what the white man brings
I see peace and harmony
and a place for me
Running wolf
one of truth
why is there a place for me
Because my light and soul
I am the reincarnation of you
Shadows are running around
In every beat and pleasure
Something might there be found
That you'd consider to erasure
Steps are surrounding the past
With what we did never give
Bringing in doubtful cast
Something we once did live
Rain cloudiness is all over
Here in this rainy time season
A wish for a four leaved clover
Comes without knowing its reason
Gardens of Eden are falling
With every known passion inside
Loneliness to feelings calling
Where every doubt must hide
Who goes there in my dream?
Giving no touch of their own
In twilight these days seem
Dim shallow moods their gown
Pass this away from my instance
Give me daybreak to know
There is always a second chance
Come to me herewith and grow
She was running late. Her family had crossed the road ahead of her and now out of sight. Normally they would have waited, but today was just not a normal day and they were all looking forward to a restful night.
It was her running late that made her careless. It’s amazing how we forget to do the things we teach our kids. She ran right into the road without a single glance. She didn’t even see the late model pickup that didn’t see her until it was too late.
Things weren’t right for a few moments. She wasn’t sure what happened – one moment she was crossing the road chasing her family and the next she was laying on it. Why couldn’t she move her arms and legs? Why couldn’t she feel anything?
Help! ? !
Help! ? – did she really just say that out loud?
Was someone coming? Yes! A man was coming closer. All she could do was lift her head up to look at him. That’s strange. Why was he carrying a rifle? Who was he talking to on the cell phone?
The next to last thing she heard was the driver of the truck telling his wife that he would be late. He had hit a deer on the road and needed to put her out of her misery.
In a land of distant memory,
in the primal world of old,
dog and man were enemies;
and our story should be told.
Beyond the mystic mountain,
lived a pack of hungry hounds;
with a tribe of rustic humans,
who lacked our strength renowned.
A menace to our hunting grounds,
they laid their claim to turf;
and fenced our range to out of bounds,
and stole our birthright, earth.
Our children too were victims,
of eugenic genocide.
The wild spirit of our nature;
broken, tamed, denied.
They call us now the running dogs,
the stunted and the hunted dogs.
They call us now the running dogs,
but are we running scared?
We were once the Big Bad Wolf,
fierce nemesis of cloven hoof.
We patrolled the deep dark wood,
and took the rap for Riding Hood.
We were once a breed to fear,
of sneering breath and snarling leer.
We were threats to little pigs,
and architects in flimsy digs.
But now we lounge on comfy chairs,
grow fat and soft and take on airs.
As trustee to a gaoler's whim,
our savage past must fade and dim.
They call us now the running dogs,
not cunning, merely stunning dogs.
They call us now the running dogs,
but are we running scared?
Running, running, running dogs.
I see and shun those running dogs.
Running, running, running dogs;
the docked and doctored curs.
Running, running, running dogs.
I see no fun in running dogs.
Running, running, running dogs;
till our heaving lungs will burst.
Running, running, running dogs.
And I am done with running dogs.
Running, running, running dogs.
For by that name we're cursed!
We act so proud we play the fool
We walk as though asleep
Yet bend and often break each rule
The Lord would have us keep
If we were parent of a child
Who plays the worldly clown
Would we reward for running wild?
Or would we wear a frown?
Some think The Lord should spare the rod
Should pity when we cry
But God in truth would not be God
If He’d just watch us die
Our God is Father of us all
He hates to see man fail
It hurts to see His children fall
And burn in Satan’s jail
So God will beat and God will chide
Till truth we’ve come to see
His eyes will wander far and wide
To set His servants free
Our father loves us to a fault
He seeks His children’s cure
He’ll season each proving salt
Until our lives are pure
He’ll spare no woman man or child
He’ll trouble heart and soul
Until we all are reconciled
And made completely whole
Consider it joy tests and trials
Persevere them well
We’ll live to wear eternal smiles
Whilst Satan burns in hell
During an open air
production of the DREAM
you pucker up
& whisper
“I suppose a quick Puck
would be out of the question? ”
you snigger.
Never one to disappoint a lady
I acquiesce to her request
(at a loss for words)
I merely murmur:
“Yesssssssssssss! ”
under my breath.
We lose ourselves
in the woods
as Shakespeare’s
words
surround us.
“I come...I come
see how I come! ”
you shout.
“Shhhh...! ”
I say
... trying to be faster than an arrow from a Tartar’s bow.
Once more
lost in words
your hair
full of tell-tale
twigs & grasses
skirt too hastily tucked in knickers
(you a brazen hussey…me a bit Byronic)
we listen enthralled
to our
beating hearts
the course of our
true love
running smooth.
Oh, I’m sure
Mr. Shakespeare
would not have
disapproved!
Waiting for a Bus,
it didn't want to come?
'started to cuss! '
then stuck out my thumb.
A lady in a Miniskirt, stopped,
in the front I hopped
She said: The Busses are running late
I just stared, then asked for a date.
She said: 'sure tonight at eight',
I thought, 'great she took the bait'
So after work, I ran home and got ready
breath in, breath out, steady
I then went to my Bus stop,
waiting on the bus to hop
But that's is just my Fate
all the busses are still running late, : -(
In thunderstorm, and a grey dog
A dog always tied, and in chain
But in thunderstorm, roaring
The dog is running, struck by fear
Enters the room, and under the bed
Pushes himself, places his head on his claws
The grey skin and fur of the dog
Keeper of the house, and near the door
A shepherd hound, loyal to the house
Men and women, children and animals
The dogs tail, cut but still long
And ears straight, eyes dark
I remember the dog, a friend old
When I was a child, and the village simple
My verse is simple, as simple as dog
I wish I had a dog like him, a friend of worth
The many things I mourn and the day’s happenings
But today, my dog I mourn you and remember you
You can’t always run you know
Ghosts of the past will always fallow
It doesn’t really matter where you go
Just know that they will eat you hollow
You can’t always leave everyone behind
It’s within yourself what you need to find
You may run all day
You could run all night
You can never just say
You don’t put up a fight
I really don’t see why
You live just waiting to die
Where is it you think your doing to?
Far away to start anew
When are these days going to be though?
Take a step back and look at you…
Ho w do you think happiness is made
What do you think trust is?
Is it smoking out and getting laid?
Maybe you’d know if you stayed
To not run and learn to deal
To rest up and have a place to heal
You can’t spend your life running you know
The road ahead is always so long
Past lives aren’t that easy to let go
Don’t run away till your forever gone
running water on the river
despite the boulders
it finds itself its way
to where all the waters meet
in that destination
of everything and everyone
running restless souls
towards the same destination
it is not divergence
it is convergence
it is the oneness of all rivers
of all souls
i run and flow
i become everything and everyone at the end
from this flow on this journey
towards everything and everyone
i am gone i am found i am lost i am the drop
becoming a part of the ocean's universe
Man goes to Man! Cry the challenge through the Jungle!
He that was our Brother goes away.
Hear, now, and judge, O ye People of the Jungle--
Answer, who can turn him--who shall stay?
Man goes to Man! He is weeping in the Jungle:
He that was our Brother sorrows sore!
Man goes to Man! (Oh, we loved him in the Jungle!)
To the Man-Trail where we may not follow more.
Faster! Faster! They're always running away
Scared! Confused! They don't know what to do
They want to stay but people drive them away
And now, There gone...
Time is running short
And I have
To be on time
At God's house
God doesn't like
When I arrive
Late for the service
I try to be on time
But I always fail
On that
That is something
That I need to work on
Time is running out I've heard
2012 fast approaching!
The experts claim that in that year
the earth might be destroyed
by something unknown encroaching.
I wonder what it might be this time?
Seems every year there's something new.
First asteroids from outer space bombarding earth
then destruction by, a man made few!
'No one knows the time or day'
when the earth might become that pile of ash!
It is all stated in Revelations, my dear friend
Placed in the Bible, that chapter written last.
So let 2012, one day roll on in!
there is nothing anyone can do.
But you had better pray, that every soul is saved
and that they're ready for,
two thousand one zero one two?
time is running out
tell me now before i leave
time is running out
what i have is what you need
time is running out
for you to tell me how you feel
time is running out
for you
but not for me to heal
Time is running out.
Racing bargain hunters
rush through it, erasing
its quiet joys of reflection.
The season’s moments lost
in an ever changing climate,
fade into the familiar abyss.
What now and what is this,
a new year that offers
more of the same
or a breath of fresh air?
Exhaling at last...
I dare to breathe.
As less on earth seek truth above
As fewer people care
So rare becomes fragrance of love
While lust pollutes the air
Lust for silver for gold and jewels
For neighbour’s wares and wives
Lust to serve as Satan’s tools
Cursing and ruining lives
But who has faith enough to hear?
Who’s wise enough to see?
Knowledge enough The Lord to fear
And live by Royal decree
How will Jesus greet His bride?
Faithful wealthy and well
Or will she run and seek to hide?
Down life’s dark road to hell
Just as Adam had done before
As Eve bowed down to shame
We close to God and life our door
Denying Jesus’ name
Denying truth of Heaven’s Seed
Author of life and light
Cultivating satanic weed
Walking in ways contrite
Sinking to depths before unknown
As expert in the shade
Denying still The Royal Throne
Of Him through whom we’re made
Will God forgive who’ve misbehaved?
Each wayward wanton crime
Through Jesus Christ the way’s well paved
Yet only whilst there’s time
When, like a running grave, time tracks you down,
Your calm and cuddled is a scythe of hairs,
Love in her gear is slowly through the house,
Up naked stairs, a turtle in a hearse,
Hauled to the dome,
Comes, like a scissors stalking, tailor age,
Deliver me who timid in my tribe,
Of love am barer than Cadaver's trap
Robbed of the foxy tongue, his footed tape
Of the bone inch
Deliver me, my masters, head and heart,
Heart of Cadaver's candle waxes thin,
When blood, spade-handed, and the logic time
Drive children up like bruises to the thumb,
From maid and head,
For, sunday faced, with dusters in my glove,
Chaste and the chaser, man with the cockshut eye,
I, that time's jacket or the coat of ice
May fail to fasten with a virgin o
In the straight grave,
Stride through Cadaver's country in my force,
My pickbrain masters morsing on the stone
Despair of blood faith in the maiden's slime,
Halt among eunuchs, and the nitric stain
On fork and face.
Time is a foolish fancy, time and fool.
No, no, you lover skull, descending hammer
Descends, my masters, on the entered honour.
You hero skull, Cadaver in the hangar
Tells the stick, 'fail.'
Joy is no knocking nation, sir and madam,
The cancer's fashion, or the summer feather
Lit on the cuddled tree, the cross of fever,
Not city tar and subway bored to foster
Man through macadam.
I dump the waxlights in your tower dome.
Joy is the knock of dust, Cadaver's shoot
Of bud of Adam through his boxy shift,
Love's twilit nation and the skull of state,
Sir, is your doom.
Everything ends, the tower ending and,
(Have with the house of wind), the leaning scene,
Ball of the foot depending from the sun,
(Give, summer, over), the cemented skin,
The actions' end.
All, men my madmen, the unwholesome wind
With whistler's cough contages, time on track
Shapes in a cinder death; love for his trick,
Happy Cadaver's hunger as you take
The kissproof world.
When you are running through the streets
There is no hope for you
You have got to pick yourself up
Isn't there something better for you to do
There is nothing but trouble
If you continue to stay within the vicinity
If you do not make this move now
No one will show you any sympathy
Willie Neenan is still running as running to him is as much a part of his life
As the lives of his athletic daughters and of Marie his good wife
An Irish champion in his seventies and an Irish champion in his prime
No doubt Millstreet's greatest athlete he's proved that time after time.
Willie Neenan is still running to me that comes as no surprise
He runs in sunny weather and when the rain pours from the skies
He has run in the depths of Winter in the frost and in the snow
Willie Neenan was a champion more than fifty years ago.
He won a World silver medal for Ireland at the Master's Games in San Juan in eighty three
Losing out on gold by the narrowest of margins in his surge for victory
The Pipers band came out to play for him in Millstreet his Hometown
He had proved himself against the World's best cannot keep a good one down.
Willie Neenan is still running his great victories we recall
Of Millstreet's many famous athletes the most famous of them all
He was an Irish champion when I was a schoolboy
And he will go on running until the day he die.
Your time is running out!
Christ died for you and me;
He paid the price for sins
Of all humanity.
This day is yours!
Do not procrastinate;
Regret, amend, repent;
Receive the grace of God.
Restart a life anew;
Live life meaningfully;
Live in the fear of God;
Decide eternity.
The devils are a losing lot;
The Maker knows their every plot;
He knows our weaknesses, bad thoughts;
To save our souls, we ought
Our earthly life is transient;
He knows our strife- Omniscient;
The Son of God has opened gates
Of Heaven and lovingly waits
For every soul, He made with love,
To enter His abode above!
We could not have counted on it,
those days when we were children young in years
but rich with a thousand hopes
jostling, pushed aside, forgotten in a day,
turned over in the mind in those few savoured moments
before a happy-tired sleep
nor did we think even to hope for it
or think how it would be to squeeze the honey of it
between our palms into our ready mouths
leaving the wax upon our hands and laughing
together or alone, in rainbow solitude
but now it’s here, we can savour the honey of it,
the future which we could not have had before
the days and years had closed like inexorable cupped petals,
into a summer evening’s sun-hazed past –
we could not have hoped or counted on nor dreamed -
these days when, all required work now done,
life’s evening hours and the late and lazy
golden leisure of fruit-filled autumn branches
stretches out in even though not endless measure –
today I choose to go to school to Rilke,
a choice as free as we think the birds are free,
the animals, the trees – yet know so little,
so very little, of their life –
and pick up the book of his poems at blissful random,
and read one single line –
‘I have great faith in all things not yet spoken’ –
and sit here, as the world falls, gently, as somewhere far away,
the book silent between my hands, having spoken,
like a honeycomb holding the honey
of some new, untrodden, unbelievably rich life.
Here comes another year
While the old one goes by
Bringing with it new events
In which loads of fun lie
We present the national athletic meet
A great event for athletic lovers
A chance for the athletes to
Show off their skills and powers
Athletes come from all over the country
And from abroad too
Cochin has never seen an event
Of such great magnitude
When the athletes enter the stadium
They are greeted with a din and roar
While their coaches give pep talk and say
If you do well, you will get more
The athletes flex their muscles
Just to warm up before the race
And to make sure they don’t fall asleep
They sometimes slap their face
The field referee blows the whistle and
“On your mark, get set go”, he screams
All eyes are on the athletes
No one dare dreams
There are races, javelin throw
High jump and long jump too
And even an event called shot put
That’ll certainly amaze you
So, sit back, and enjoy
As the athletes speed through the events fast
And I assure you these memories
Your whole life will last.
It’s  been  twelve  years  in  this  school
And  memories  reign  in  my  heart.
It’s  now  that  I  feel  you,  miss  you,
When  we  are  all  about  to  part.
'Old  order  changeth  yielding
Forth  to  new',  he  said.
To  my  dear  IX  Std. do  something  better,
Better  than  what  we  had.
To  sing  of  you  my  friends  and  teachers,
Of  the  relationship  we  share,
Words  will  merely  describe  them,
Thoughts  of  love  and  care.
To  you  my  teachers  I  express  thanks,
Your  teachings  were  not  mere  words.
They  beautified  and  strengthened  me
And  helped  me  lead  these  sheep  in herds.
And  to  you  my  friends,  my  dearest  friends,
I  wanna  say  nothing.
It’s  only  by  words  of  love  and  silence,
That  I  speak  to  you  and  you  to  me.
And  I  must  thank  all  my  peons
Who  worked  behind  the  scene.
They  swept  my  class  and  dirtied  themselves,
And  yet  remained  unseen.
We  are  leaving  you  my  teachers
And  you  will  go  on  teaching,
And  when you’ll  not  be  there,
Through  us your  lives  will  go  on  existing.
By  and  by  this  life  will  go  on
And  I’ll  cherish  these  moments  shared  with  you.
But  I  don’t  want  these  moments  at  all,
For  in  my  life,  friends!  I  want  you.
Many  new  flowers  will  bloom  in  life
And  many  more  stars  will  shine.
But  without  you  my  dearest  ones
It’ll  be  hard  to  make  those  stars  and  flowers  all mine.
To  live  to  the  expectations  of  you,  my  teachers,
And  friends  your  wishes,  I’ll  try.
Though  amidst  the  chaos  of  my  life
In  silence  my  heart  will  cry.
Thank  you  my  teachers  and  good luck  my  friends
As  we  all  bid  each  other  a  farewell.
I  hope  in  these  twelve  years  of  mine
I  have  fared  well.
Oh no I’m late for school
The alarm woke me up late in the morn
Oh how could this happen?
I’m sure I had set the alarm right, I could have sworn
I was supposed to wake up at seven
But now its nearly eight
If I’m not on time my teacher will kill me
Or else she will use me for fishing as bait
In a total hustle bustle I tried to pack my bag
Oh now where is my math book gone?
And then I also realized I
Had left my pencil box in the lawn
Mom tried to stop me but I was too busy
To hear what she had to say
Without breakfast I ran to bus stop
Whilst the sun on me, cast its many a bright ray
I stood there waiting for my bus
Which always came at eight
But it didn’t arrive at all
Uh oh, was I too late?
At last I gave up hope
And came home to rest for the day
When my eyes fell on the calendar
And I realized today is a Sunday.
Where are you, boys and girls
of Miss Lindahl's 5th grade class?
What became of you
when you slipped off
the far edge of my world?
Many of you
I never saw again,
or even thought of
until I saw this picture,
yet you occupy a place
that can't be filled
by anyone but you —
so much yourselves,
untrained as yet
in putting on a face.
Your faces are colors
long forgotten,
your names sound notes
of a long-lost scale:
Harvey Baer, Gail Rutherford,
Marion Phipps, Jonathon Katz,
Temmy Goldwasser, Randy Wahl —
your names are bells that angels ring,
tolling the music of the spheres.
I remember my first days at school
How the building seemed so big
I remember where I hung my coat
By the picture of a pig
I remember our headmistress
Her face was sprouting hair
I remember I was always told
Not to look it’s rude to stare
I remember all the screaming
From the children how they cried
I remember double swinging doors
That seemed so very wide
I remember in the sandpit
Pouring water-making slush
I remember teacher telling us
Let’s have a little hush
I remember cold school dinners
How the dinner ladies shout
I remember most of all I think
When they told us school was out
© 2008 David Threadgold
Rambling Riddles & Rhymes
I remember in the fifties, I stayed for my school dinners
At six sided tables, with six chairs to match
I remember on walls, having all the art class winners
Whilst the dinner ladies served our food by batch
I remember lots of water, in a very large glass jug
With a glass for every diner in its place
I remember as I poured, it would give out a sudden glug
Causing droplets that would often hit your face
I remember smelly cabbage, with lots of lumpy mash
A tray sliced up with equal bits of pie
I remember thick brown gravy, it landed with a splash
That could blind you if it got you in the eye
I remember all the puddings, with custard steaming hot
You could only have if finishing your greens
I remember all the groaning as we finished off the lot
And the sickly taste from piles of butter beans
I remember taking turns, to have the custards skin
Had to scrape it off before the stuff would pour
I remember in the fifties, that none of us were thin
As the puddings kept us going back for more
© 2008 David Threadgold
Rambling Riddles & Rhymes
You’re a funny one aren’t you.
A mustachioed cowboy,
And look, a badge too.
Finger tapping frustration here..
Late again,
And Don Jaun,
Pen
peddling
Super cop,
Napoleon
ic
Stockade
teeth,
Melancholy
Master Smith
Mega Tron,
Is having a field day.
Copyright (c)      David DeSantis
I come, ye little noisy Crew,
Not long your pastime to prevent;
I heard the blessing which to you
Our common Friend and Father sent.
I kissed his cheek before he died;
And when his breath was fled,
I raised, while kneeling by his side,
His hand:--it dropped like lead.
Your hands, dear Little-ones, do all
That can be done, will never fall
Like his till they are dead.
By night or day blow foul or fair,
Ne'er will the best of all your train
Play with the locks of his white hair,
Or stand between his knees again.
Here did he sit confined for hours;
But he could see the woods and plains,
Could hear the wind and mark the showers
Come streaming down the streaming panes.
Now stretched beneath his grass-green mound
He rests a prisoner of the ground.
He loved the breathing air,
He loved the sun, but if it rise
Or set, to him where now he lies,
Brings not a moment's care.
Alas! what idle words; but take
The Dirge which for our Master's sake
And yours, love prompted me to make.
The rhymes so homely in attire
With learned ears may ill agree,
But chanted by your Orphan Quire
Will make a touching melody.
DIRGE
Mourn, Shepherd, near thy old grey stone;
Thou Angler, by the silent flood;
And mourn when thou art all alone,
Thou Woodman, in the distant wood!
Thou one blind Sailor, rich in joy
Though blind, thy tunes in sadness hum;
And mourn, thou poor half-witted Boy!
Born deaf, and living deaf and dumb.
Thou drooping sick Man, bless the Guide
Who checked or turned thy headstrong youth,
As he before had sanctified
Thy infancy with heavenly truth.
Ye Striplings, light of heart and gay,
Bold settlers on some foreign shore,
Give, when your thoughts are turned this way,
A sigh to him whom we deplore.
For us who here in funeral strain
With one accord our voices raise,
Let sorrow overcharged with pain
Be lost in thankfulness and praise.
And when our hearts shall feel a sting
From ill we meet or good we miss,
May touches of his memory bring
Fond healing, like a mother's kiss.
BY THE SIDE OF THE GRAVE SOME YEARS AFTER
LONG time his pulse hath ceased to beat
But benefits, his gift, we trace--
Expressed in every eye we meet
Round this dear Vale, his native place.
To stately Hall and Cottage rude
Flowed from his life what still they hold,
Light pleasures, every day, renewed;
And blessings half a century old.
Oh true of heart, of spirit gay,
Thy faults, where not already gone
From memory, prolong their stay
For charity's sweet sake alone.
Such solace find we for our loss;
And what beyond this thought we crave
Comes in the promise from the Cross,
Shining upon thy happy grave.
When will the bell ring, and end this weariness?
How long have they tugged the leash, and strained apart
My pack of unruly hounds: I cannot start
Them again on a quarry of knowledge they hate to hunt,
I can haul them and urge them no more.
No more can I endure to bear the brunt
Of the books that lie out on the desks: a full three score
Of several insults of blotted pages and scrawl
Of slovenly work that they have offered me.
I am sick, and tired more than any thrall
Upon the woodstacks working weariedly.
I walk through life,
Day-by-day.
Full of never-ending strife,
Void of my say.
The butt of every joke,
In every way.
They always poke,
Are you gay?
I’m sick of the pranks.
Sometimes I just want,
To attack them with shanks.
For each little taunt.
I dare not try nor tell,
They would just run and squeal.
Worsening this living hell,
Of no appeal.
Only I would be at fault.
They are like a toon,
Never coming to a halt.
I wish it would end soon.
Stupid is a good word,
Childish too.
To describe this absurd,
torture I go through.
They act like jerks,
Yet they have girlfriends.
They enjoy the perks,
And don’t care of the ends.
I’m civil and nice,
But always alone.
Free of any vice,
Yet I’m on my own.
If you can’t be good,
Then let me be.
Maybe someday you could,
From my side, see.
Seeds expelled to wander the desert air
Finding refuge in burial soil of a promised land.
An opened petal soon dies;
Come spring the bulb revives.
A vine clinging to her mother’s dress,
Her fists budded into her mother-haven,
Crying tears of distress,
Running waters streaking her cheeks.
Unparted waters to the promised land,
Unbinding the clasping hands,
To walk through the parted sea,
Tears of baptism, tears of rebirth,
running waters streaking her cheeks.
For those who know and understand
The truth will make them free;
But how to see and understand
That beyond the fear we will be free.
Sept.14,2006
I WALK through the long schoolroom questioning;
A kind old nun in a white hood replies;
The children learn to cipher and to sing,
To study reading-books and histories,
To cut and sew, be neat in everything
In the best modern way -- the children's eyes
In momentary wonder stare upon
A sixty-year-old smiling public man.
I dream of a Ledaean body, bent
Above a sinking fire.  a tale that she
Told of a harsh reproof, or trivial event
That changed some childish day to tragedy --
Told, and it seemed that our two natures blent
Into a sphere from youthful sympathy,
Or else, to alter Plato's parable,
Into the yolk and white of the one shell.
III
And thinking of that fit of grief or rage
I look upon one child or t'other there
And wonder if she stood so at that age --
For even daughters of the swan can share
Something of every paddler's heritage --
And had that colour upon cheek or hair,
And thereupon my heart is driven wild:
She stands before me as a living child.
Her present image floats into the mind --
Did Quattrocento finger fashion it
Hollow of cheek as though it drank the wind
And took a mess of shadows for its meat?
And I though never of Ledaean kind
Had pretty plumage once -- enough of that,
Better to smile on all that smile, and show
There is a comfortable kind of old scarecrow.
What youthful mother, a shape upon her lap
Honey of generation had betrayed,
And that must sleep, shriek, struggle to escape
As recollection or the drug decide,
Would think her Son, did she but see that shape
With sixty or more winters on its head,
A compensation for the pang of his birth,
Or the uncertainty of his setting forth?
Plato thought nature but a spume that plays
Upon a ghostly paradigm of things;
Solider Aristotle played the taws
Upon the bottom of a king of kings;
World-famous golden-thighed Pythagoras
Fingered upon a fiddle-stick or strings
What a star sang and careless Muses heard:
Old clothes upon old sticks to scare a bird.
VII
Both nuns and mothers worship images,
But thos the candles light are not as those
That animate a mother's reveries,
But keep a marble or a bronze repose.
And yet they too break hearts -- O presences
That passion, piety or affection knows,
And that all heavenly glory symbolise --
O self-born mockers of man's enterprise;
VIII
Labour is blossoming or dancing where
The body is not bruised to pleasure soul.
Nor beauty born out of its own despair,
Nor blear-eyed wisdom out of midnight oil.
O chestnut-tree, great-rooted blossomer,
Are you the leaf, the blossom or the bole?
O body swayed to music, O brightening glance,
How can we know the dancer from the dance?
I found an old country Cowboy Valentine
that was made so very long ago.
It was signed at the bottom in crayon
by a young boy who's name was, Buffalo Joe.
You could tell it was all hand made
some of the glitter and bangles have fallen off.
Colored with bright colors so neatly
Better than any in a store, one could have bought.
Tried to picture the face that made it
tried as hard as I could ever do.
But for as hard as I had tried to remember
I couldn't grasp that vision of you.
Those were the days of less worries
and a childs heart now just memories.
'Will Ya be My Valentines Partner? '
In that Valentines card you made for me.
School Is Not So Cool
School, School, School,
A school is not cool
We're here 5 days a week
8 hours a day.
School, School, School,
A school is not cool.
People laugh when we fall
we just have to make a call.
School, School, School
A school is not cool.
We have to work hard to get good grades
I'm not going to do it no more
I do it every day.
We can’t go on the grass
We can’t bother another class
We can’t save spots at lunch
We have to go as a bunch.
We have 3 minutes in the hall
I'm always late what a ball.
We have to pay attention
if not we get detention.
School, School, School,
A school is not cool.
They have too many rules
they play us as fools
if we get A's
the parents jump Hip Hip Hooray.
If we get F's
we tell them we need to take a rest.
We always have homework
we never have class work
they have to many rules
they need to take it cool.
School, School, School,
A school is so not cool!
Prelude to "Stalky & Co."
"Let us now praise famous men"--
Men of little showing--
For their work continueth,
And their work continueth,
Broad and deep continues,
Greater then their knowing!
Western wind and open surge
Took us from our mothers--
Flung us on a naked shore
(Twelve bleak houses by the shore.
Seven summers by the shore! )
'Mid two hundred brothers.
There we met with famous men
Set in office o'er us;
And they beat on us with rods--
Faithfully with many rods--
Daily beat us on with rods,
For the love they bore us!
Out of Egypt unto Troy--
Over Himalaya--
Far and sure our bands have gone--
Hy-Brazil or Babylon,
Islands of the Southern Run,
And Cities of Cathaia!
And we all praise famous men--
Ancients of the College;
For they taught us common sense--
Tried to teach us common sense--
Truth and God's Own Common Sense,
Which is more than knowledge!
Each degree of Latitude
Strung about Creation
Seeth one or more of us
(Of one muster each of us),
Diligent in that he does,
Keen in his vocation.
This we learned from famous men,
Knowing not its uses,
When they showed, in daily work--
Man must finish off his work--
Right or wrong, his daily work--
And without excuses.
Servant of the Staff and chain,
Mine and fuse and grapnel--
Some, before the face of Kings,
Stand before the face of Kings;
Bearing gifts to divers Kings--
Gifts of case and shrapnel.
This we learned from famous men
Teaching in our borders,
Who declared it was best,
Safest, easiest, and best--
Expeditious, wise, and best--
To obey your orders.
Some beneath the further stars
Bear the greater burden:
Set to serve the lands they rule,
(Save he serve no man may rule),
Serve and love the lands they rule;
Seeking praise nor guerdon.
This we learned from famous men,
Knowing not we learned it.
Only, as the years went by--
Lonely, as the years went by--
Far from help as years went by,
Plainer we discerned it.
Wherefore praise we famous men
From whose bays we borrow--
They that put aside To-day--
All the joys of their To-day--
And with toil of their To-day
Bought for us To-morrow!
Bless and praise we famous men--
Men of little showing--
For their work continueth,
And their work continueth,
Broad and deep continueth,
Great beyond their knowing!
at the School of Sternness
there's a class on 'How to Frown'
Ms. Leech doesn't like me
and called me the class clown
when we did the lesson
on '20 Different Sneers'
I descended into trouble
for laughing down the stares
oh yes, I guess - I could wrinkle my brow
with the best of them
but my eyes would twinkle, somehow
while I sang the funeral hymn
Mr. Jenks says now my glower power
is no longer up to par
he's perplexed, 'cuz my aptitude tests
showed that I could go far
'You could have been director
of a top-notch funeral home
or a Principal scowling angrily
as through the halls you roam! '
But at my poor grades, I just have to laugh
for my heart my bearing mirrors
who cares if I got another F
for too many glaring errors?
after my course on Stern Disapproval
I was whistling in the hall
Mr. Ick demanded my instant removal
and the whole school was appalled
They dragged me to the Dean
who growled 'what's this I'm hearing of? ! '
so I finally just came clean
and told the Dean “I’m in love! ”
Black holes or big bang
Gravitational forces
Prove you can't have both
black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory
On this rolling planet ever have you seen
A home so like a palace waiting for its queen? --
A dwelling place so fair,
So fill'd with treasures rare,
As the little white cottage on Evergreen Square?
Come, pretty school girl! lay your books aside;
Yes graduate tomorrow -- tomorrow be my bride;
My fortune share,
And reign queen there,
In the little white cottage on Evergreen Square.
Red as are the roses climbing on its wall,
Your cheeks of richer crimson shall out-bloom them all.
Your eyes (beyond compare)
A brighter gleam shall wear,
In the little white cottage on Everygreen Square.
Flow'rs of rarest fragrance all the year shall bloom,
And singing birds make music in your chosen room.
Come, breathe its balmy air!
Come, charm away my care,
In the little white cottage on Everygreen Square.
I’ll nettle you from behind
I’ll striddle you from the side
I’ll stalk you in the light
I’ll be there when you die
I’ll watch you when you hide
I’ll scrutinize your tide
I’ll scan your ever lie
I’ll be there when you die
Will you remember me by the susurration of my wrath?
Will you remember what I said last?
Did I stain the back of your mind?
Did I modify your design?
I’ll be there when you die
If the walls talked they'd tell you I’m here
But they can't so I’ll remain your desolated fear
I hear your cryptic moans
I taste your infantine toes
I follow you
Your every thought is downloaded
Your secure walls have eroded
I’ll remain here biding
My closed eyes know where you're hiding
Sound of shadows
I’ll be there when you die
I’ll nettle you from behind
I’ll striddle you from the side
I’ll stalk you in the light
I’ll be there when you die
I’ll watch you when you hide
I’ll scrutinize your tide
I’ll scan every time you lie
I’ll be there when you die
Oh yea
Sound of shadows
I’ll be there when you die
Oh yea
Sound of shadows
Will you remember me by the susurration of my wrath?
Will you remember what I said last?
Did I stain the back of your mind?
Did I modify your design?
I’ll be there when you die
Our evergreen school days
will not come back again
From the nursery to high school
we learnt the best
and the best that taught by our teachers
Our school life was full of cheers
and lived with full of mischievous
but the discipline was maintained well
We sang and danced without
thinking of our future.
We spent money without earned them
When the school start after the vacation
we meet our friends happily and
welcomed new friends dearly
We played all the games and we won
many games with out care of sun or rain
Many years have been gone
today we live different parts of the world
but the memories of our school days
will live in our hearts as ever green days.
first day at school
the first real five  hours
away from mom
first day at school
the thin boy, the fat boy,
the quiet boy, the one with the mother
inspired by
First Day at School
A millionbillionwillion miles from home
Waiting for the bell to go. (To go where?)
Why are they all so big, other children?
So noisy? So much at home they
Must have been born in uniform
Lived all their lives in playgrounds
Spent the years inventing games
That don't let me in. Games
That are rough, that swallow you up.
And the railings.
All around, the railings.
Are they to keep out wolves and monsters?
Things that carry off and eat children?
Things you don't take sweets from?
Perhaps they're to stop us getting out
Running away from the lessins. Lessin.
What does a lessin look like?
Sounds small and slimy.
They keep them in the glassrooms.
Whole rooms made out of glass. Imagine.
I wish I could remember my name
Mummy said it would come in useful.
Like wellies. When there's puddles.
Yellowwellies. I wish she was here.
I think my name is sewn on somewhere
Perhaps the teacher will read it for me.
Tea-cher. The one who makes the tea.
Roger McGough
A millionbillionwillion miles from home
Waiting for the bell to go. (To go where?)
Why are they all so big, other children?
So noisy? So much at home they
Must have been born in uniform
Lived all their lives in playgrounds
Spent the years inventing games
That don't let me in. Games
That are rough, that swallow you up.
And the railings.
All around, the railings.
Are they to keep out wolves and monsters?
Things that carry off and eat children?
Things you don't take sweets from?
Perhaps they're to stop us getting out
Running away from the lessins. Lessin.
What does a lessin look like?
Sounds small and slimy.
They keep them in the glassrooms.
Whole rooms made out of glass. Imagine.
I wish I could remember my name
Mummy said it would come in useful.
Like wellies. When there's puddles.
Yellowwellies. I wish she was here.
I think my name is sewn on somewhere
Perhaps the teacher will read it for me.
Tea-cher. The one who makes the tea.
I am as invisible as the wind...
no one knows me but they know i'm around...
they don't talk to me, they'd rather look at the ground...
soo i'm the outcast of the class...
some look through me as though i'm made of glass...
But i like it this way..
i don't know why but it sort of made my day...
i sit alone all the time...
to me i think they are all slime...
Snobbery in my part i guess...
or maybe i'm just in a lonely mess...
whatever it is, i should start talking...
simply because assignments are coming...
But who would talk to a weirdo like me?
looks like i have to put on my mask for them to see...
early in the morning,
school is calling,
time to hop out of bed,
jump on mum,
say it'll be fun,
that is just the way,
don't be late
please do stay,
mum dont leave so soon
wait at the gate
i'll bring you out a mate
meet trish
who loves to eats fish
can we go home
ive had enough
today was fun
kind of my luck!
bed time now,
why some how,
turn out the light say good night
wake up school will call again
Night.Night time for bed again! ! !
next year is hear hipp horary cheer for school day is finally here! ! !
[ my first day of school 2002 ]
The boat ploughed on. Now Alcatraz was past
And all the grey waves flamed to red again
At the dead sun's last glimmer. Far and vast
The Sausalito lights burned suddenly
In little dots and clumps, as if a pen
Had scrawled vague lines of gold across the hills;
The sky was like a cup some rare wine fills,
And stars came as he watched
-- and he was free
One splendid instant -- back in the great room,
Curled in a chair with all of them beside
And the whole world a rush of happy voices,
With laughter beating in a clamorous tide. . . .
Saw once again the heat of harvest fume
Up to the empty sky in threads like glass,
And ran, and was a part of what rejoices
In thunderous nights of rain; lay in the grass
Sun-baked and tired, looking through a maze
Of tiny stems into a new green world;
Once more knew eves of perfume, days ablaze
With clear, dry heat on the brown, rolling fields;
Shuddered with fearful ecstasy in bed
Over a book of knights and bloody shields . . .
The ship slowed, jarred and stopped. There, straight ahead,
Were dock and fellows. Stumbling, he was whirled
Out and away to meet them -- and his back
Slumped to the old half-cringe, his hands fell slack;
A big boy's arm went round him -- and a twist
Sent shattering pain along his tortured wrist,
As a voice cried, a bloated voice and fat,
"Why it's Miss Nancy! Come along, you rat!"
Going to a new school somewhere I never went,
This couldn't happen to me, this I never even dreamt
Thoughts line up in my head,
The ones that I truly dread
How might my new class mates be
Would they pick on me,
Or would they tease me
How many times did my mother tell me to stay strong,
That only the things in your head are what make you act wrong,
And also that things change due to the way we think,
Great things can suddenly be destructed under the rate of a blink,
Just because the way we thought was not  right or just.
I know better, to stay strong and happy,
But that cannot possibly happen under all this anxiety.
How can I suddenly move out of a place,
Which was like a home to me
Now I might fall into a rat race,
Where I might find no one like me
My former school suddenly seems like the best place now,
Although things weren’t great at first I know that that is a place I truly love,
I had taken a very long time to adjust and make friends,
All that has completely gone waste, now that no one will come to save me even once
But things won’t get that worse I now seem to realize
If someone does hurt me I can pay deaf ears and close my eyes
I decide to make the first move while making new friends
Hey maybe it won’t be as bad I thought, I might even set new trends.
Did you see them pass to-day, Billy, Kate and Robin,
All astride upon the back of old grey Dobbin?
Jigging, jogging off to school, down the dusty track -
What must Dobbin think of it - three upon his back?
Robin at the bridle-rein, in the middle Kate,
Billy holding on behind, his legs out straight.
Now they're coming back from school, jig, jog, jig.
See them at the corner where the gums grow big;
Dobbin flicking off the flies and blinking at the sun -
Having three upon his back he thinks is splendid fun:
Robin at the bridle-rein, in the middle Kate,
Little Billy up behind, his legs out straight.
first day at school
the other children look into me
for sign of similar fear
inspired by
First Day at School
A millionbillionwillion miles from home
Waiting for the bell to go. (To go where?)
Why are they all so big, other children?
So noisy? So much at home they
Must have been born in uniform
Lived all their lives in playgrounds
Spent the years inventing games
That don't let me in. Games
That are rough, that swallow you up.
And the railings.
All around, the railings.
Are they to keep out wolves and monsters?
Things that carry off and eat children?
Things you don't take sweets from?
Perhaps they're to stop us getting out
Running away from the lessins. Lessin.
What does a lessin look like?
Sounds small and slimy.
They keep them in the glassrooms.
Whole rooms made out of glass. Imagine.
I wish I could remember my name
Mummy said it would come in useful.
Like wellies. When there's puddles.
Yellowwellies. I wish she was here.
I think my name is sewn on somewhere
Perhaps the teacher will read it for me.
Tea-cher. The one who makes the tea.
Roger McGough #19
The Dutch are pleasant
too bad that those pretenders
are so pathetic.
All Germans like it.
It's Krauts made from the cabbage.
It smothers weevils.
The Freshman girl, oh, so shy,
Sits and watches the Sophomore guy,
The Sophomore guy, his head in a whirl,
Sits and watches the Junior girl,
The Junior girl, in her red sadan,
Sits and watches the Senior man,
But the Senior man so hot and wild,
Secretly loves the Freshman child.
theres a name thats lost
Maybe someone I never met
Everyone knows them
Maybe they just forget
Theres our old home
You call it high school
I was the popular reject
Maybe a make believe fool
Theres that book
The one I never read
maybe I could've been smarter
If I really used my head
Theres a broken mirror
I recognize that face
It's the kid known as Vick
He never forgets this place
Theres the blue locker
It still looks the same
I open the door
I still see my name.
She was a high school slinger
Six times winner. She's the
dame of all the books that you'd read
She'd rub against your shoulder
Oh so much bolder, you'd hang on
everything that she said
You'd never see slimmer
But she craved to be thinner
Those magazines really got to her head
Face painted pale,
Her tonsils' evil blare
She made sure that she always got heard
She's a Ballroom swinger
Kareoke singer. She's the epitimy
of all that I dread
Her face a bit older,
A heart getting colder
How will you ever get fed?
Now she's a real Hum-dinger
A fiesty city minger
There's one thing you'll have to accept
On her roads to decieve
She still spreads her disease
Never leaving  a heart unbled
So don't try to win her
Till you learn how to sting her
You'll be sleeping in an empty bed
For she'll take all your money
Then run to her Mummy
And leave you with a hole in your head
I am a young school boy,
With a white shirt and black tie,
I dream to fly high,
Like a falcon in the sky,
Not bothered how, what and why?
We are a gang of five,
I  and my friends do try,
To read and play all the while,
I am a young school boy,
We have a sports teacher,
Who is a like bully bear,
His tantrums I don’t care,
I will  follow our class teacher;
We have a teacher in science
We pray for his absence,
As we all are tense,
During his class of no nonsense;
We have a moral teacher,
Who is nothing less than a preacher,
He is always in sparkling white,
His lectures are also upright;
Sir George is teaching us history,
He is always in a mystery,
About the Hitler’s victory,
He is the best among the faculty,
We have a teacher in English,
She hates us being childish,
She always behaves bullish,
When home work we don’t finish;
We promise, not to touch smack,
Nor  we change our dream track,
As it makes mind to crack,
I am a smart young school boy;
Mummy daddy behind my back,
To finish daily home work pack,
Before I change the track,
And run up to hit the sack,
I am a smart young school boy;
I don't want to go into school today; Mum,
I don't feel like school work today.
Oh,  don't make me go to school today, Mum
Oh, please let me stay home and play.
But you must go to school, my cherub, my lamb,
If you don't it will be a disaster,
How would they manage without you, my sweet,
After all you are the headmaster!
Still sits the school-house by the road,
A ragged beggar sleeping;
Around it still the sumachs grow,
And blackberry-vines are creeping.
Within, the master's desk is seen,
Deep-scarred by raps official;
The warping floor, the battered seats,
The jack-knife's carved initial;
The charcoal frescoes on its wall;
Its door's worn sill, betraying
The feet that, creeping slow to school,
Went storming out to playing!
Long years ago a winter sun
Shone over it at setting;
Lit up its western window-panes,
And low eaves' icy fretting.
It touched the tangled golden curls,
And brown eyes full of grieving,
Of one who still her steps delayed
When all the school were leaving.
For near it stood the little boy
Her childish favor singled;
His cap pulled low upon a face
Where pride and shame were mingled.
Pushing with restless feet the snow
To right and left, he lingered;---
As restlessly her tiny hands
The blue-checked apron fingered.
He saw her lift her eyes; he felt
The soft hand's light caressing,
And heard the tremble of her voice,
As if a fault confessing.
"I'm sorry that I spelt the word:
I hate to go above you,
Because,"---the brown eyes lower fell,---
"Because, you see, I love you!"
Still memory to a gray-haired man
That sweet child-face is showing.
Dear girl! the grasses on her grave
Have forty years been growing!
He lives to learn, in life's hard school,
How few who pass above him
Lament their triumph and his loss,
Like her, because they love him.
in school,
when  i  saw  you
i  intuited  i  have  found
my  lost  world  in  you
i  wish  i  could  act
to  be  appreciated
by  you  in  school.
in school,
it  would  be too sad
to  narrate  the  ordeal
i  have  been  through
i  wonder  if  its  best
i  had  met you
in  the  school.
in  school,
though  i  had  not  said  it
there  has  been  so  many  ways
that  i have  shown  it
my  actions  had  done
whatever  i  wanted  to  say
at  school.
in  school,
i  never  thought
being  in  love
could  take  me  to  madness
well,  it  is  better  than
leaving  me  in  sadness
in  the  school.
in  school,
when i  approached  you
i  knew  i  was  silly
it  was  because
suddenly,
i  forgot  who  i  was
in  school
in  school,
why  do  you  sneer
when  i  am  near
it  really  breaks  me
just  tell  me  what  to  do
to  get  a  room  from  you
in and  out  of  school.
in school,
sometimes  though  it  is  hard
i  guess  i  must  let  go
some  things  i wish  to  have
though  good  things  also
could  be  found  elsewhere
as  it  has  been  in  school.
I sent my child to school today
With his little lunch box
When he came home he said his friend
Had gotten the chickenpox,
I sent my child to school today
And asked him what he learned
He told me about firemen
They taught him how not to get burned,
I sent my child to school today
He said, 'Do you know what they taught me? '
He told me they taught him numbers
As well as his ABC’s,
I sent my child to school today
A smile on his face
I gave him a kiss and a hug
And said, 'See ya funny face! ',
I sent my child to school today
His smile bright and wide
But an older child brought in a gun
How did he get it inside? ,
I sent my child to school today
As in every day
But the child with the gun started shooting
The reason? No one could say,
I buried my child after school today
All I can do is cry
I lost my child at school today
And nobody can tell me why.
Being a translation of the song that was made by a Mohammedan schoolmaster of Bengal Infantry (some time on service at Suakim) when he heard that Kitchener was taking money from the English to build a Madrissa for Hubshees -- or a college for the Sudanese.
Oh Hubshee, carry your shoes in your hand and bow your head on your breast!
This is the message of Kitchener who did not break you in jest.
It was permitted to him to fulfil the long-appointed years;
Reaching the end ordained of old over your dead Emirs.
He stamped only before your walls, and the Tomb ye knew was dust:
He gathered up under his armpits all the swords of your trust:
He set a guard on your granaries, securing the weak from the strong:
He said: -- "Go work the waterwheels that were abolished so long."
He said: -- "Go safely, being abased. I have accomplished my vow."
That was the mercy of Kitchener. Cometh his madness now!
He does not desire as ye desire, nor devise as ye devise:
He is preparing a second host -- an army to make you wise.
Not at the mouth of his clean-lipped guns shall ye learn his name again,
But letter by letter, from Kaf to Kaf, at the mouths of his chosen men.
He has gone back to his own city, not seeking presents or bribes,
But openly asking the English for money to buy you Hakims and scribes.
Knowing that ye are forfeit by battle and have no right to live,
He begs for money to bring you learning -- and all the English give.
It is their treasure -- it is their pleasure -- thus are their hearts inclined:
For Allah created the English mad -- the maddest of all mankind!
They do not consider the Meaning ofThings; they consult not creed nor clan.
Behold, they clap the slave on the back, and behold, he ariseth a man!
They terribly carpet the earth with dead, and before their cannon cool,
They walk unarmed by twos and threes to call the living to school.
How is this reason (which is their reason) to judge a scholar's worth,
By casting a ball at three straight sticks and defending the same with a fourth?
But this they do (which is doubtless a spell) and other matters more strange,
Until, by the operation of years, the hearts of their scholars change:
Till these make come and go great boats or engines upon the rail
(But always the English watch near by to prop them when they fail);
Till these make laws of their own choice and Judges of their
And all the mad English obey the Judges and say that that Law is good.
Certainly they were mad from of old; but I think one new thing,
That the magic whereby they work their magic -- wherefrom their fortunes spring --
May be that they show all peoples their magic and ask no price in return.
Wherefore, since ye are bond to that magic, O Hubshee, make haste and learn!
Certainly also is Kitchener mad. But one sure thing I know --
If he who broke you be minded to teach you, to his Madrissa go!
Go, and carry your shoes in your hand and bow your head on your breast,
For he who did not slay you in sport, he will not teach you in jest.
It's the final day as we all take photographs and say goodbye; a thought goes through my mind.
I may never see any of you again. I don't want to let go of the many memories we have made.
Yet I know that will not happen as the memories we have created have been engraved on my heart and left a deep impression in my mind.
Your kindness and caring attitude has been an inspiration and so have you, and I look forward to the future where in some distant lifetime we will meet again and relive the old times and the old memories.
This is what makes me cherish the true friends I have now.
'And has the Sun his flaming chariot driven
Two hundred times around the ring of heaven,
Since Science first, with all her sacred train,
Beneath yon roof began her heavenly reign?
While thus I mused, methought, before mine eyes,
The Power of EDUCATION seemed to rise;
Not she whose rigid precepts trained the boy
Dead to the sense of every finer joy;
Nor that vile wretch who bade the tender age
Spurn Reason's law and humour Passion's rage;
But she who trains the generous British youth
In the bright paths of fair majestic Truth:
Emerging slow from Academus' grove
In heavenly majesty she seemed to move.
Stern was her forehead, but a smile serene
'Softened the terrors of her awful mien.'
Close at her side were all the powers, designed
To curb, exalt, reform the tender mind:
With panting breast, now pale as winter snows,
Now flushed as Hebe, Emulation rose;
Shame followed after with reverted eye,
And hue far deeper than the Tyrian dye;
Last Industry appeared with steady pace,
A smile sat beaming on her pensive face.
I gazed upon the visionary train,
Threw back my eyes, returned, and gazed again.
When lo! the heavenly goddess thus began,
Through all my frame the pleasing accents ran.
''When Superstition left the golden light
And fled indignant to the shades of night;
When pure Religion reared the peaceful breast
And lulled the warring passions into rest,
Drove far away the savage thoughts that roll
In the dark mansions of the bigot's soul,
Enlivening Hope displayed her cheerful ray,
And beamed on Britain's sons a brighter day;
So when on Ocean's face the storm subsides,
Hushed are the winds and silent are the tides;
The God of day, in all the pomp of light,
Moves through the vault of heaven, and dissipates the
night;
Wide o'er the main a trembling lustre plays,
The glittering waves reflect the dazzling blaze
Science with joy saw Superstition fly
Before the lustre of Religion's eye;
With rapture she beheld Britannia smile,
Clapped her strong wings, and sought the cheerful isle,
The shades of night no more the soul involve,
She sheds her beam, and, lo! the shades dissolve;
No jarring monks, to gloomy cell confined,
With mazy rules perplex the weary mind;
No shadowy forms entice the soul aside,
Secure she walks, Philosophy her guide.
Britain, who long her warriors had adored,
And deemed all merit centred in the sword;
Britain, who thought to stain the field was fame,
Now honoured Edward's less than Bacon's name.
Her sons no more in listed fields advance
To ride the ring, or toss the beamy lance;
No longer steel their indurated hearts
To the mild influence of the finer arts;
Quick to the secret grotto they retire
To court majestic truth, or wake the golden lyre;
By generous Emulation taught to rise,
The seats of learning brave the distant skies.
Then noble Sandys, inspired with great design,
Reared Hawkshead's happy roof, and called it mine.
There have I loved to show the tender age
The golden precepts of the classic page;
To lead the mind to those Elysian plains
Where, throned in gold, immortal Science reigns;
Fair to the view is sacred Truth displayed,
In all the majesty of light arrayed,
To teach, on rapid wings, the curious soul
To roam from heaven to heaven, from pole to pole,
From thence to search the mystic cause of things
And follow Nature to her secret springs;
Nor less to guide the fluctuating youth
Firm in the sacred paths of moral truth,
To regulate the mind's disordered frame,
And quench the passions kindling into flame;
The glimmering fires of Virtue to enlarge,
And purge from Vice's dross my tender charge.
Oft have I said, the paths of Fame pursue,
And all that Virtue dictates, dare to do;
Go to the world, peruse the book of man,
And learn from thence thy own defects to scan;
Severely honest, break no plighted trust,
But coldly rest not here- be more than just;
Join to the rigours of the sires of Rome
The gentler manners of the private dome;
When Virtue weeps in agony of woe,
Teach from the heart the tender tear to flow;
If Pleasure's soothing song thy soul entice,
Or all the gaudy pomp of splendid Vice,
Arise superior to the Siren's power,
The wretch, the short-lived vision of an hour;
Soon fades her cheek, her blushing beauties fly,
As fades the chequered bow that paints the sky,
So shall thy sire, whilst hope his breast inspires,
And wakes anew life's glimmering trembling fires, 0
Hear Britain's sons rehearse thy praise with joy,
Look up to heaven, and bless his darling boy.
If e'er these precepts quelled the passions' strife,
If e'er they smoothed the rugged walks of life,
If e'er they pointed forth the blissful way
That guides the spirit to eternal day,
Do thou, if gratitude inspire thy breast,
Spurn the soft fetters of lethargic rest.
Awake, awake! and snatch the slumbering lyre,
Let this bright morn and Sandys the song inspire.'
'I looked obedience: the celestial Fair
Smiled like the morn, and vanished into air.'
He made a line on the blackboard,
one bold stroke from right to left
diagonally downward and stood back
to ask, looking as always at no one
in particular, "What have I done?"
From the back of the room Freddie
shouted, "You've broken a piece
of chalk." M. Degas did not smile.
"What have I done?" he repeated.
The most intellectual students
looked down to study their desks
except for Gertrude Bimmler, who raised
her hand before she spoke. "M. Degas,
you have created the hypotenuse
of an isosceles triangle." Degas mused.
Everyone knew that Gertrude could not
be incorrect. "It is possible,"
Louis Warshowsky added precisely,
"that you have begun to represent
the roof of a barn." I remember
that it was exactly twenty minutes
past eleven, and I thought at worst
this would go on another forty
minutes. It was early April,
the snow had all but melted on
the playgrounds, the elms and maples
bordering the cracked walks shivered
in the new winds, and I believed
that before I knew it I'd be
swaggering to the candy store
for a Milky Way. M. Degas
pursed his lips, and the room
stilled until the long hand
of the clock moved to twenty one
as though in complicity with Gertrude,
who added confidently, "You've begun
to separate the dark from the dark."
I looked back for help, but now
the trees bucked and quaked, and I
knew this could go on forever.
Oh, it came so fast like a speedy train,
in the month of heavy rain,
when the birds of joy just flew away,
and my heartbeat rose up each day.
the vacations were over and,
there was no more time to play in sand,
but of course you know what that was,
it was my school reopening day as it is.
That day morn when I woke up,
thought if i had a ever or hiccup,
lazy and unwilling, of course, of huss,
made it to the waiting bus.
As the speed of bus went high,
i sank back to the seat with a sigh,
at last whe i walked down to school,
i never knew to use what tool.
As my school came closer,
I became more more dozer,
but wait! now that at school i was,
noone knows the tension a girl has.
When i stepped in to my class,
My courage broke like a breaking glass,
but when i found out i wasn't alone,
and found news friends to adorn,
for first school became a heaven!
* when i was going on to my 5th class to a new school. of course i made a lot of friends and my shyness left me and i am now first at school
More than half a century ago,
the Monsoon showers had just brought relief from the sweltering summer,
just when I was dreaming of playing soccer whole day outdoors,
My Dad decided that I have to attend an elementary school.
I was dragged a mile by my older brother to my new school,
It would be my favorite Durga Temple  converted into a school,
My dreams of a class with benches and chairs just vanished,
As we were sitting on the floor in open partitioned classrooms of the school.
I thought I would get a nice colorful uniform to wear to school,
but it looked like that the dress code was a futuristic dream,
At least every class had a black board bigger than my slate,
the teacher had a duster whereas I had to wipe the chalk with my hand.
The fear of some burly kids and nostalgia of home made me sad and homesick,
I could not stop crying and asking my teacher to let me go home.
I still remember the teacher with big black cane,
every time I cried to go home, I got a whack on my palm with his cane,
I could not stop crying, he would not stop whacking,
till I was sent in a distant corner for breaking the class rule.
Kneeling down in the corner, I dreamt of Mom and home,
I found comfort in the memories of joyous Durga Puja days,
I wished the Goddess would come alive,
and pierce the hands of the teacher with her big spear.
Finally the Tiffin time heralded the temporary recess,
the teacher came down and helped me open my Tiffin can,
He asked me to eat while he wrote something on my slate,
He hoped that it would keep me interested in his school.
After I finished my food, he handed my slate,
He had drawn a picture of a big smiling cat with whiskers and big tail,
He asked me to draw the cat on the other side of the slate,
I was so happy drawing the circles and lines whole afternoon,
I forgot I had a rough first day in school.
It was expected to belong.
A boy who has his sights
aimed high,
who aims to make
his parents proud,
will show respectability
and rise above the common folks.
It was the driving force
that made me join the choir,
a voice of mediocre quality
would not disgrace the school
as it was mixed into the crowd
of screaming baritones,
of pubescent basses and the lone
and rather spindly looking pallor
who, as a rarity, was an essential tenor.
When teenage vocal cords perform,
there is an awe that settles in the hall,
or auditorium, it clings to dusty walls
and rests among the cobwebs of the past.
And hearts pick up their happy beat
as if to shout about their sheer invincibility,
each ear, as it partakes  the sum of all,
of loud, angelic voices oh, so pure,
claims ownership of the collage of tones
impressed and stirred to greater deeds,
while restless eyes now roam, subdued
search rows of colleagues in the amber light
until they find that pair of mellow molecules,
look back into the innocence of all,
and tiny promises now sing a melody.
I was caught by the principal,
'Hey! What are you doing here?
Don't you know this is a center for children
Usually under five years of age
And you are a matured person? '
I replied humbly ' I am sorry Madam, still I am a little tea pot short & stout and pour me little wisdom to become a sprout.'
*Dedication to my fellow poet friends Sandra, Jerry & Alison
Also best wishes to the California Writing strikers!
and for a fleeting moment
when viewing each picture
a silent wish quickly expires
I guess we all have old memories
Way back when we were in school
We tried our best to get passing grades
To prove to our folks we weren’t a fool
Remember those old-fashion desks?
There was an ink well right at the top
Some boys didn’t last too long at school
For they stayed home to pick the crops
Long walks home right after school
The stack of books made a heavy load
Kicking rocks but hurrying along
Down that dusty red dirt road
After all, there were always chores to do
Once a kid got back home
Gather the eggs and slop the hogs
Didn’t have a lot of time to roam
Yep, those were good old days, my friend
Nowadays seems school is a breeze
But it sure is fun to look behind us
To the wonderful old school memories!
AN old man's thought of School;
An old man, gathering youthful memories and blooms, that youth itself
cannot.
Now only do I know you!
O fair auroral skies! O morning dew upon the grass!
And these I see--these sparkling eyes,
These stores of mystic meaning--these young lives,
Building, equipping, like a fleet of ships--immortal ships!
Soon to sail out over the measureless seas,
On the Soul's voyage.
Only a lot of boys and girls?                                      10
Only the tiresome spelling, writing, ciphering classes?
Only a Public School?
Ah more--infinitely more;
(As George Fox rais'd his warning cry, "Is it this pile of brick and
mortar--these dead floors, windows, rails--you call the church?
Why this is not the church at all--the Church is living, ever living
Souls.")
And you, America,
Cast you the real reckoning for your present?
The lights and shadows of your future--good or evil?
To girlhood, boyhood look--the Teacher and the School.
She caught the school bus
every day,
Margaret Kennedy,
plain and pigeon-toed.
She chose the same seat
behind the driver
(we liked to sit up the back) .
She'd bury her face in a book,
hiding her freckles under her hat.
She was a school prefect -
a real goody-goody -
who always wore her gloves
and 'reported' us
when we didn't.
She sometimes sucked sweets
which she'd smuggle
surreptitiously
from gloved hand to mouth.
Margaret was a loner -
aloof and without friends.
She was older than us
and we were all a bit scared of her.
One day she missed the bus.
We were told her mum had died
(she'd had cancer apparently) .
She never caught the bus again.
O the pressures of school
It is so heavy I feel like a mule
Slave everyday
I do not want to stay
O the pressures of school
The teachers know everything
And we know nothing
Choosing is not a choice
We are taught to be successful from people who are not
Just wish to be and wish us to be
But they know most of us will fail
Because we will bail
And live in jail
So we can tell our tale
Of how badly we wanted to prevail
But the pressures of school were too great
I don’t think they remember what its like to be in high school
Don’t they remember the pressures from their teachers to be better?
From there students to do drugs and smoke?
To choose to do shit that makes pressures go away but bring some different pressures?
At least we have a choice to do that shit
I think that’s where kids get caught
Choice, freedom, rebel…
Sweet sounds for a teenager worth the price
We hold the dice when it comes to these decisions
Finally we can control something
We are our own bosses
Yes we may loose
But lucky seven
Will take us to heaven
It is not easy finishing school
We are also just starting our complicated lives
Yes we need some guidance
But we don’t need to be on a choke hold
We don’t want to do what we’re told
We have pressures from society
From our family
From the academy
Hell we even have pressures from the TV!
Yet they still don’t see the large burden they put on our shoulders
They think, ‘what can some more pressure do?
Besides this pressure is good for you.’
All I want to do is write poetry
It is my drug
So I don’t have the pressures of taking drugs
It is my addiction
So I don’t need any smokes
It is in my family
So I don’t need pressures from my family
It is even my TV
So I don’t need a TV
So I can tell myself how I am supposed to look and how I am supposed to live my life
It is all I want from school
I know my English and I know how I feel
So I don’t need the pressures of school
All you need to be a poet
Is to turn your feelings into words
You don’t have to be successful
As long as it feeds you’re own pressures rather than the pressures of society
Yet O the pressures of school are so great
I cannot escape
Until their pressures are obliterate
You go to school
everyday
just to be told
you can't do it that way
you have to do it my way
it is in the rules
and you think
school isn't cool
teachers think they're all that
and that they can control us
but sometimes I wish my teachers
would get hit by a bus
I know that sounds mean
but I haven't even said
that school everyday
I always dread
It feels like a prison
with no escape
why oh why
am I bound to this fate?
Of course we have to go to school
we have to all week
but couldn't school be more fun
instead of really starting to reek!
But we have to go through it
all 12 grades
and we have to go to college
what a bad day!
The days drag on
they never end
until the bells rings
and I run as fast as I can
It's almost christmas break
and I can't wait
because more days at school
I just can't take.
School sucks
and I think it is bad
and even though we are tortured
it isn't all bad
I guess what i'm trying to say is
school can sometimes be good
and you learn stuff
and that's is sorta good
so school is boring
and is not really fun
but we will get through it
and then for joy we will jump
He never went to school
But he was no fool
He was simply playing Mr Cool
Eyes closed by cottonwool
Cheered on my mates
Sealed his present faith
There is a time to play
A time to go to school
His parents told him
Make that your number one rule
He wholly ignored them
How can education
be a such golden gem
Now he sobs, sobs, sobs
Now he robs, robs, robs
No qualifications
Zero education
His mates have moved on
to better jobs
In many glorious nations
Now he sobs, sobs, sobs
Now he robs, robs, robs
He wishes he was a student
He wishes he had the talent
He had at one moment
There are no more screams and shouts
Because he knows what he is all about
He is a school dropout
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
Starting with when i was a kid
when i was not so big
everything was so cool, like soft water in a pool
increasing steps day by day, loosing past way by way....
entering into new classes, complicated as the time passes! ! !
New classes, new friends, new trends, ... that mends you to beocme your best
Afterall you have to pass through tests! ! ! !
At last the day has come we have to leave our school and spin our memories like the wool
These days will never be back again......
and... we will remember them again and again
so, love your teachers, love your school.
School, School, School,
A school is not so cool
We're here 5 days a week
8 hours a day.
School, School, School,
A school is not so cool.
People laugh when we fall
we just have to make a call.
School, School, School
A school is not so cool.
We have to work hard to get good grades
I'm not going to do it no more
I do it everyday.
We cant go on the grass
We cant bother another class
We cant save spots at lunch
We have to go as a bunch.
We have 3 minutes in the hall
I'm always late what a ball.
We have to pay attention
if not we get detention.
School, School, School,
A school is not so cool.
They have to many rules
they play us as fools
if we get A's
the parents jump Hip Hip Hooray.
If we get F's
we tell them we need to take a rest.
We always have homework
we never have classwork
they have to many rules
they need to take it cool.
School, School, School,
A school is so not cool!
School  we need it
school, friends
school you have teachers
school is great
high school is even better
college, PARITES
school you mite find your true love
new experiences everyday
school, dances
school just school
school who dose not love it
school is fun
school, preps
school, classes
school, math, science, computer classes
school is great love it
school just school
we need school
School,
Some things you like, Some you hate.
School,
Wake up at six, But you're still always late.
School,
Not talking about college when you can pick your classes,
School,
I'm sick of hearing, 'Where the heck are your glasses? ! '
School,
Homework takes up the rest of your time,
School,
I want to be a kid, I don't care whose face's on the dime.
School,
To force me to go, It's a felony, A CRIME!
School what can i say
School im there like all day
School can be cool at some points
School im really gifted when it comes down to it
School is mainly hell but what can i say
School is were my friends are at everyday
School were is were I get to see my favorite teacher
School is were I get to see my secret crush
Ha-Ha school whats left to say
School, it is stressing at times.
Many times I don't even have it on my mind.
School is good, and it is bad, there are times I think that I'm
going to mad.
It is a good thing to go to school, so that you could remember the rules.
Don't be shy.
Don't be a fool.
Go to school, and learn all the rules.
My poetic side
At full force
Suicidal thoughts
Inside they course
Pain over bearing
Day not so good
Everyone staring
I am misunderstood
This alien blood
Flows deep inside
This overwhelming flood
Is the reason I died
Why do we go to school?
We have to learn
We have to strive harder
We have to go to school
School can be fun...
For some people!
I find it fun
I find it bad
I know a guy who was whipped at his school...
That was my dad!) :
So be lucky with have fair schools now
And not green liver for lunch
Like my mum had!) :
Honestly!
Be cool and calm
Or you'll find yourself...
In the headmasters palm...
love school very much
! Good child.
I dream about school
every day.
! That's nice.
School is the soure to
succeed.
! oh i love school.
School is not where you go
and became to fight
! that's right.
School is the resolution of
education.
! oh i love learning.
school is not a toy to play with.
! that's right.
I hate when people are given
opportunity to learn and don`t
want to be serious.
! please be serious.
I love school and I will always
! Good child.
The room is cold-
I see the sun shine bright outside
I cannot escape the room's tight hold.
The untold rules I must abide
My mind wander not through hills of old.
Can I not see the square root of 63
That number is evil, evil i say
Or that Poe was obsessed with Psyche!
What poet wrote down by the bay?
Work and more work, there goes another tree.
Waiting for the ring of bells
Not the bells that Poe described
But the ones the end of the school day  tells
that tell me when on the bus I'll ride
and home I'll gon- and goodbye I'll yell!
school
school is the best
my english teacher rocks
history is fun
school
waking up for school,
getting to school going to school,
I used to think school was
Just for fools and friends...
But if you look at it now
It aint just for that
It helps you...and when I
say help I mean helps you
reach your goals...
And for the one's that dropped
out...bad idea
Cause now you don't have an
education...so come on all
you dropp outs go back to
school and make something
better of yourself.
'DON'T BE DUMB STAY IN SCHOOL'
School can be fun...school can be boring
school can bring friends...school can bring enemies
school can bring Kiri...school can bring Jake porter
school can bring rules...but u can break them
school brings bullies...school brings friends
school bring work..school brings cheating
school brings beaver(mason)
school brings bonsai(Andy)
school brings little people(Kirilee)
school brings tree (harley)
School Brings Miss Smiley or little poeple(Me! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !)
one day it was my big day all packed up
but the on dear then i say my worst sight ever
it was school i never went up in a smile ever again
so my first day blahblahblah is i i heard
i think it may be my day
but lets lay down low
or i could be called gay
so now ill just go home
School is fun,
School is great,
Even if your late.
In school we do Math,
We do Art,
I love that part.
In Social Studies,
We have homework buddies.
PE is the best,
Compared to all the rest.
During lunch,
We will munch,
And then drink grape punch.
Then we play,
For thirty minutes of the day
Before, Vick became my name
Before, Sad thoughts set in
Before, Girls started to say no
Before, Entering the party world
Before, The PS2 craze
Before, Bible girl
Before, Long work days
Before, The blizzard of 2000
Before, DVD's made my list
Before, My other friend
Before, People started to diss
Before, Poetry was at my best
Before, Cell phones rang
Before, Life became a test
Before, My loser gang
Before, Memories I started to miss
Before, Days became lonely
Before all this
You knew me from school.
O academic muse that hast for long
Charmed all the world with thy disciples’ song,
As myrtle bushes must give place to trees,
Our humbler strains can now no longer please.
Look down for once, inspire me in these lays.
In lofty verse to sing our Rector's praise.
The mighty wheel of Time to light has rolled
That golden age by ancient bards foretold.
Minerva now descends upon our land,
And scatters knowledge with unsparing hand;
Long since Ulysses saw the heavenly maid,
In Mentor's form and Mentor’s dress arrayed,
But now to Cambrian lands the goddess flies,
And drops in Williams’ form from out the skies;
And as at dawn the brilliant orb of light,
With his bright beams dispels the gloomy night,
So sunk in ignorance our land he finds,
But with his learning drives it from our minds,
And he, a hero, shall with joyful eyes
See crowds of heroes all around him rise;
With great Minerva's wisdom he shall rule
Those boisterous youths—the rector's class at school,
And when in the fifth class begins his power,
And he begins to teach us, from that hour
Dame Poetry begins to show her face,
And witty epigrams the plaster grace;
There growing wild are often to be seen
The names of boys that Duxes erst have been,
And at the chimney-piece is seen the same
All thickly scribbled with the boobie's name.
· · · · ·
Ne’er shall the dreadful tawse be heard again,
The lash resounding, and the cry of pain;
Carmichael's self will change (O that he would!)
From the imperative to wishing mood;
Ye years roll on, and haste the expected time
When flogging boys shall be accounted crime.
But come, thy real nature let us see,
No more the rector but the goddess be,
Come in thy might and shake the deep profound,
Let the Academy with shouts resound,
While radiant glory all thy head adorns,
And slippers on thy feet protect thy corns;
O may I live so long on earth below,
That I may learn the things that thou dost know!
Then will I praise thee in heroic verse
So good that Linus’ will be counted worse;
The Thracian Orpheus never will compare
With me, nor Dods that got the prize last year.
But stay, O stay upon this earth a while,
Even now thou seest the world's approving smile,
And when thou goest to taste celestial joys,
Let thy great nephew teach the mourning boys,
Then mounting to the skies upon the wind,
Lead captive ignorance in chains behind.
Every school has a name but
school is so lame
school what can I say
school im there like every day
school is like a prison, you can nver escape
school is like having a detencion every day
school you tell us to do schoolwork and at home we have to do homework: (
school, school, school
work, work, work
study, study, study
test, test, test it all goes trough my mind
what else should i do
might the principle think; .
My school
My rules
My way or the hard way
This is what i think
Im
Victor Arambula
My teacher asks me to study
Get up early every morning
Time table for each day
Plan your things as it says
As my school reopened
New books and a clean slate
Books covered and labeled
White cloth and chalk for the slate
How neatly I wrote my name
Drew a picture in the front page
Wanted it to remain the same
Never teared a single page
I was studious had an aim
Colourful marks I scored in test
With friends we played few games
In every game we were the best
Then as the days go by
Started to tear pages from the books
Then said the books a brief bye bye
Dog ears in all my books
Pages used for a million other things
Paper rockets to fly at friends
Wrote the names on their wings
Painted red at the rocket ends
Played in water on rainy days
Plastic shoes and pink raincoats
Prayed for fever on test days
In water sailed paper boats
Now its time for the big exams
No more playgrounds and fun days
Back to books to clear exams
Once again early rise each day
Some of your classes might be boring,
But don’t you dare get caught snoring.
Get your homework done,
Then go out and have some fun.
Go out and party all night long,
But don’t forget your report on ping-pong.
There is only one solution to it all,
Get your homework done in study hall.
So when it’s time for school
Be cool.
Don’t be a fool.
end of summer
school bell rings-
empty cereal bowls
end of summer
school bell rings-
a mothers tear
schoolyard
playground
once again full
I
My child and I hold hands on the way to school,
And when I leave him at the first-grade door
He cries a little but is brave; he does
Let go. My selfish tears remind me how
I cried before that door a life ago.
I may have had a hard time letting go.
Each fall the children must endure together
What every child also endures alone:
Learning the alphabet, the integers,
Three dozen bits and pieces of a stuff
So arbitrary, so peremptory,
That worlds invisible and visible
Bow down before it, as in Joseph's dream
The sheaves bowed down and then the stars bowed down
Before the dreaming of a little boy.
That dream got him such hatred of his brothers
As cost the greater part of life to mend,
And yet great kindness came of it in the end.
II
A school is where they grind the grain of thought,
And grind the children who must mind the thought.
It may be those two grindings are but one,
As from the alphabet come Shakespeare's Plays,
As from the integers comes Euler's Law,
As from the whole, inseperably, the lives,
The shrunken lives that have not been set free
By law or by poetic phantasy.
But may they be. My child has disappeared
Behind the schoolroom door. And should I live
To see his coming forth, a life away,
I know my hope, but do not know its form
Nor hope to know it. May the fathers he finds
Among his teachers have a care of him
More than his father could. How that will look
I do not know, I do not need to know.
Even our tears belong to ritual.
But may great kindness come of it in the end.
Anonymous submission.
First day we stepped into a school was great-
In uniform with school-bag, looking cute!
We could not walk or run and had a slate;
We learnt to read and write and be not mute.
We learnt the Alphabets: count one to ten!
We ate so happily when school-bell rung;
Our teachers taught us how to hold the pen;
We can’t forget those days when we were young.
Our knowledge improved slowly every day;
Afilled with joy in hearts, we went to play;
Our teachers taught us manners and to pray;
The fees- our parents somehow tried to pay.
Although some hours, some days, we may detest,
The years we spent in school are sure the best!
Stay in school, don't be a fool
A dropout gets left out
A dropout gets pushed out
Show me your name, what does it mean
Show me your ring, you're in the scene
Without an education there is no beginning
With education you are winning
Stay in school, student maintain your cool
It's so hard to get a job now days
Without education just be on your way
Show me your car, what does it prove?
Show me youe diploma, you're in the groove
You don't have to be smart to finish school
But you are a square if you are not there
Dropout, you can start back
Students that are in school
You are on the right track
You can stand around the corner
Watching the school bus go by
You know deep down inside you want to cry
It is good to stop drinking
It is good to stop smoking
When you are thinking about stopping your education
My friend you better start thinking
You know that if there was one thing,
That you could take from school,
It wouldn't be art or math or history,
It would be work.
Those ugly things you want to blow up,
and smash,
and burn,
and crinkle,
and rip,
and tear,
and throw out.
Those things that make you have to remember,
all the stuff you learned before,
and to study, study, study,
'till your eyes fall out.
“Oh, sorry I wasn't paying attention”
and
'Did we learn this? '
never helps when the test monster gives you the paper, And wishes you well.
But you know she doesn't mean that.
She doesn't want us to do good,
she just wants us to hurry so she can give us another test.
And then it's June!
Good that the year's almost over,
But bad 'cause........
FINAL EXAMS
Oh no! ! !
The mother of all tests,
And what did you say? We have to take more than one!
I'm done for.
Your sitting there,
hand clenched on the pencil,
face sweating,
and then BINGO!
You get the answer.
You jump up and scream,
in the silent classroom.
You shout out with joy 'cause they’re all over.
No more exams, or quizzes, or tests, or homework.
You bring up you paper and sit back down.
Then it happens.
Excuse me please come up to the front of the room
Right then and there
DETENTION!
No it’s not detention?
Whoo Hoo! ! ! !
It’s homework
Well that’s just as bad.
You think,  No. No. You didn't just say there's still homework? ?
And we have to do it everyday of the summer! !
You have to be kidding me.
“Oh, just strike me down right here and save me from homework! ! “
But wait,
You say it's fun homework,
BLAH,
homework can't be fun,
or joyous,
or exciting,
or awesome,
or amusing,
or entertaining,
JUST HORRIBLE! ! !
“So we have to do fun homework? ? “
“What is it? “
It is to have fun?
And stay safe? ?
“No, you must be kidding.”
Your not kidding! Really! ! Cool! !
Well see you next year!
If I can stop having fun and come back!
GOOD BYE SCHOOL AND TESTS! ! !
Up at my school
everyone is different
yet we are treated
like an equal
everyone is always smiling
or laughing so hard
they start to cry
that's my school
a lot of people
go through my school
home of the blue jays
to cool for school
standing tall upon the hill
behind all the trees
stands the blue jay's school
yup, that's my school
each person is unique
form the clothes
to the hair
to their personality
each person is free
to express themselves
and be who they want
that's my school
WHS blue jay pride
that's something
that can never be beat
and something that we can't hide
friends come and go
but one thing will live on
the pride we had for our team
just like my school did
no matter where I go
or how far I leave town
I'll always be proud to say
WHS in WashMo is my school.
School Days
Crazy, boring
Work! Work! Work! Too much work!
The last days are always the best
All done.
When storm-clouds rumble in the sky and June showers come down.
The moist east wind comes marching over the heath to blow its
bagpipes among the bamboos.
Then crowds of flowers come out of a sudden, from nobody knows
where, and dance upon the grass in wild glee.
Mother, I really think the flowers go to school underground.
They do their lessons with doors shut, and if they want to
come out to play before it is time, their master makes them stand
in a corner.
When the rain come they have their holidays.
Branches clash together in the forest, and the leaves rustle
in the wild wind, the thunder-clouds clap their giant hands and the
flower children rush out in dresses of pink and yellow and white.
Do you know, mother, their home is in the sky, where the stars
are.
Haven't you see how eager they are to get there? Don't you
know why they are in such a hurry?
Of course, I can guess to whom they raise their arms; they
have their mother as I have my own.
It  now is time.
I'll have to tell the world.
And never did I ever
mean to do this.
Regardless of,
what peers today
require,
I will come out.
The girl I love is
no one you would know.
She is the sweetest,
loveliest of all.
She walks around
as if the world could
well ignore her.
I am afraid,
I tell you with
reluctance,
that someone bigger,
better, smarter comes along.
And takes her on his horse
to distant fields,
she would forget
her home,
and me the
fool from school.
What do you think?
She loves me and
I love her.
Would all this count enough
to seal
our pact forever?
Those school days, when I was a student
Remembering my days with my wonderful teachers
Teaching lessons for us was not difficult for them
But learning lessons from them was a tough task of our life
They taught us the best and we gained the best
Our mistakes were dealt with understandings
Our mischievous were forgiven and directed us to right path
But the discipline was maintained well from top to bottom
They behaved as teachers and also dear friends
They accepted our respect but also our love to them
They imparted knowledge which was rich in quality
Not only they took care of our studies but also our future career
We knew someday we have to say goodbye
to them with broken heart
But we always remember those fond memories spent with them
Let me thank God for giving us wonderful teachers
during our school days
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright ©2004 Ravi Sathasivam
O what a joyous joyous day
Is that on which we come
At the recess from school away,
Each lad to his own home!
What though the coach is crammëd full,
The weather very warm;
Think you a boy of us is dull,
Or feels the slightest harm?
The dust and sun is life and fun;
The hot and sultry weather
A higher zest gives every breast,
Thus jumbled all together.
Sometimes we laugh aloud, aloud,
Sometimes huzzah, huzzah.
Who is so buoyant, free, and proud
As we home travellers are?
But sad, but sad is every lad
That day on which we come,
That last last day on which away
We all come from our home.
The coach too full is found to be;
Why is it crammëd thus?
Now every one can plainly see
There's not half room for us.
Soon we exclaim, O shame, O shame,
This hot and sultry weather,
Who but our master is to blame
Who packed us thus together!
Now dust and sun does every one
Most terribly annoy;
Complaints begun, soon every one
Elbows his neighbour boy.
Not now the joyous laugh goes round,
We shout not now huzzah;
A sadder group may not be found
Than we returning are.
When our semi-conductor
Raised his baton, we sat there
Gaping at Marche Militaire,
Our mouth-opening number.
It seemed faintly familiar
(We'd rehearsed it all that winter),
But we attacked in such a blur,
No army anywhere
On its stomach or all fours
Could have squeezed through our crossfire.
I played cornet, seventh chair,
Out of seven, my embouchure
A glorified Bronx cheer
Through that three-keyed keyhole stopper
And neighborhood window-slammer
Where mildew fought for air
At every exhausted corner,
My fingering still unsure
After scaling it for a year
Except on the spit-valve lever.
Each straight-faced mother and father
Retested his moral fiber
Against our traps and slurs
And the inadvertent whickers
Paradiddled by our snares,
And when the brass bulled forth
A blare fit to horn over
Jericho two bars sooner
Than Joshua's harsh measures,
They still had the nerve to stare.
By the last lost chord, our director
Looked older and soberer.
No doubt, in his mind's ear
Some band somewhere
In some music of some Sphere
Was striking a note as pure
As the wishes of Franz Schubert,
But meanwhile here we were:
A lesson in everything minor,
Decomposing our first composer.
See the flying French depart
Like the bees of Bonaparte,
Swarming up with a most venomous vitality.
Over Baden and Bavaria,
And Brighton and Bulgaria,
Thus violating Belgian neutrality.
And the injured Prussian may
Not unreasonably say
"Why, it cannot be so small a nationality
Since Brixton and Batavia,
Bolivia and Belgravia,
Are bursting with the Belgian neutrality."
By pure Alliteration
You may trace this curious nation,
And respect this somewhat scattered Principality;
When you see a B in Both
You may take your Bible oath
You are violating Belgian neutrality.
It was built of bark and poles, and the floor was full of holes
Where each leak in rainy weather made a pool;
And the walls were mostly cracks lined with calico and sacks –
There was little need for windows in the school.
Then we rode to school and back by the rugged gully-track,
On the old grey horse that carried three or four;
And he looked so very wise that he lit the master's eyes
Every time he put his head in at the door.
He had run with Cobb and Co. – "that grey leader, let him go!"
There were men "as knowed the brand upon his hide",
And "as knowed it on the course". Funeral service: "Good old horse!"
When we burnt him in the gully where he died.
And the master thought the same. 'Twas from Ireland that he came,
Where the tanks are full all summer, and the feed is simply grand;
And the joker then in vogue said his lessons wid a brogue –
'Twas unconscious imitation, let the reader understand.
And we learnt the world in scraps from some ancient dingy maps
Long discarded by the public-schools in town;
And as nearly every book dated back to Captain Cook
Our geography was somewhat upside-down.
It was "in the book" and so – well, at that we'd let it go,
For we never would believe that print could lie;
And we all learnt pretty soon that when we came out at noon
"The sun is in the south part of the sky."
And Ireland! that was known from the coast-line to Athlone:
We got little information re the land that gave us birth;
Save that Captain Cook was killed (and was very likely grilled)
And "the natives of New Holland are the lowest race on earth".
And a woodcut, in its place, of the same degraded race
Seemed a lot more like a camel than the blackfellows that we knew;
Jimmy Bullock, with the rest, scratched his head and gave it best;
But his faith was sadly shaken by a bobtailed kangaroo.
But the old bark school is gone, and the spot it stood upon
Is a cattle-camp in winter where the curlew's cry is heard;
There's a brick school on the flat, but a schoolmate teaches that,
For, about the time they built it, our old master was "transferred".
But the bark school comes again with exchanges 'cross the plain –
With the Out-Back Advertiser; and my fancy roams at large
When I read of passing stock, of a western mob or flock,
With "James Bullock", "Grey", or "Henry Dale" in charge.
And I think how Jimmy went from the old bark school content,
With his "eddication" finished, with his pack-horse after him;
And perhaps if I were back I would take the self-same track,
For I wish my learning ended when the Master "finished" Jim.
The old school gate still stands here though
The school has long since gone,
It stands amongst the hedgerow now
And opens for no one,
The school gate leads to nowhere
No one passes through it now,
And it remains so firmly shut
Yet it survived somehow.
Although its frame is rusting well
And crumbling away,
It stands there as a symbol of
A long forgotten day,
A small estate of houses where
The classrooms used to be,
The playground too has vanished now
It breaks my heart to see.
So many times I'd waited here
So many times passed through,
I close my eyes and can recall
The times that I once knew,
The parting and the welcoming
I held my mother's hand,
Beside this gate in front of me
That can now barely stand.
So sad to see it in this state
So many years gone by,
Yet while it lasts my dreams survive
And memories will not die,
The faces of the teachers
And the faces of my friends,
The sight of children playing there
Yet here is where it ends.
In old school house yard at Ruby a dark brown shorthorn cow
And leghorn pullets cackling beneath the cypress bough
This school must hold good memories and memories live somehow
Here in their lunch hour children played but where are those children now? .
The old school room now a tea room has undergone some change
And if past pupil came back here he'd find the place quite strange
Where is the desk he sat at? the blackboard is not there
And time has brought change to Ruby as it has done elsewhere.
The old school house at Ruby a memory of past years
Here Ruby children sang and laughed and shed their fledgeling tears
And do those children of Ruby who now live far away
In dreams return to old school house and Ruby childhood day? .
The old school house at Ruby a memory of the past
And time has brought about some change and time bring change too fast
This school must hold good memories and memories live somehow
Here in their lunch hour children played but where are those children now? .
In a wild moraine of forgotten books,
On the glacier of years gone by,
As I plied my rake for order's sake,
There was one that caught my eye:
And I sat by the shelf till I lost myself.
And roamed in the crowded mist,
And heard lost voices and saw lost looks,
As I pored on an Old School List.
What a jumble of names! there were some that I knew,
As a brother is known: to-day
Gone I know not where, nay I hardly care,
For their places are full: and, they--
What climes they have ranged: how much they're changed!
Time, place and pursuits assist
In transforming them: stay where you are: adieu!
You are all in the Old School List.
There are some who did nothing at school, much since:
And others much then, since naught:
They are middle-aged men, grown bald since then:
Some have travelled, and some have fought:
And some have written, and some are bitten
With strange new faiths: desist
From tracking them: broker or priest of prince,
They are all in the Old School List.
There's a grave grey lawyer in King's Bench Walk,
Whose clients are passing few:
He seldom speaks: in those lonely weeks,
What on earth can he find to do?
Well, he stroked the eight -- what a splendid fate!--
And the Newcastle barely missed:
"A future Lord Chancellor!" so we'd talk
In the days of the old School List.
There were several duffers and several bores,
Whose faces I've half forgot,
Whom I lived among, when the world was young,
And who talked "no end of rot":
Are they now little clerks who stroll in the Parks
Or scribble with grimy fist,
Or rich little peers who hire Scotch moors?
Well -- they're all in the old School List.
There were some who were certain to prosper and thrive,
And certain to do no more,
Who were "capital chaps," and, tho' moderate saps,
Would never stay in after four:
Now day after day they are packed away,
After being connubially kissed,
To work in the city from ten to five:
There they are in the old School List.
There were two good fellows I used to know.
--How distant it all appears!
We played together in football weather,
And messed together for years:
Now one of them's wed, and the other's dead
So long that he's hardly missed
Save by us, who messed with him years ago:
But we're all in the old School List.
--Was it for this
That one, the fairest of all Rivers, lov'd
To blend his murmurs with my Nurse's song,
And from his alder shades and rocky falls,
And from his fords and shallows, sent a voice
That flow'd along my dreams? For this, didst Thou,
O Derwent! travelling over the green Plains
Near my 'sweet Birthplace', didst thou, beauteous Stream
Make ceaseless music through the night and day
Which with its steady cadence, tempering
Our human waywardness, compos'd my thoughts
To more than infant softness, giving me,
Among the fretful dwellings of mankind,
A knowledge, a dim earnest, of the calm
That Nature breathes among the hills and groves.
When, having left his Mountains, to the Towers
Of Cockermouth that beauteous River came,
Behind my Father's House he pass'd, close by,
Along the margin of our Terrace Walk.
He was a Playmate whom we dearly lov'd.
Oh! many a time have I, a five years' Child,
A naked Boy, in one delightful Rill,
A little Mill-race sever'd from his stream,
Made one long bathing of a summer's day,
Bask'd in the sun, and plunged, and bask'd again
Alternate all a summer's day, or cours'd
Over the sandy fields, leaping through groves
Of yellow grunsel, or when crag and hill,
The woods, and distant Skiddaw's lofty height,
Were bronz'd with a deep radiance, stood alone
Beneath the sky, as if I had been born
On Indian Plains, and from my Mother's hut
Had run abroad in wantonness, to sport,
A naked Savage, in the thunder shower.
Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up
Foster'd alike by beauty and by fear;
Much favour'd in my birthplace, and no less
In that beloved Vale to which, erelong,
I was transplanted. Well I call to mind
('Twas at an early age, ere I had seen
Nine summers) when upon the mountain slope
The frost and breath of frosty wind had snapp'd
The last autumnal crocus, 'twas my joy
To wander half the night among the Cliffs
And the smooth Hollows, where the woodcocks ran
Along the open turf. In thought and wish
That time, my shoulder all with springes hung,
I was a fell destroyer. On the heights
Scudding away from snare to snare, I plied
My anxious visitation, hurrying on,
Still hurrying, hurrying onward; moon and stars
Were shining o'er my head; I was alone,
And seem'd to be a trouble to the peace
That was among them. Sometimes it befel
In these night-wanderings, that a strong desire
O'erpower'd my better reason, and the bird
Which was the captive of another's toils
Became my prey; and, when the deed was done
I heard among the solitary hills
Low breathings coming after me, and sounds
Of undistinguishable motion, steps
Almost as silent as the turf they trod.
Nor less in springtime when on southern banks
The shining sun had from his knot of leaves
Decoy'd the primrose flower, and when the Vales
And woods were warm, was I a plunderer then
In the high places, on the lonesome peaks
Where'er, among the mountains and the winds,
The Mother Bird had built her lodge. Though mean
My object, and inglorious, yet the end
Was not ignoble. Oh! when I have hung
Above the raven's nest, by knots of grass
And half-inch fissures in the slippery rock
But ill sustain'd, and almost, as it seem'd,
Suspended by the blast which blew amain,
Shouldering the naked crag; Oh! at that time,
While on the perilous ridge I hung alone,
With what strange utterance did the loud dry wind
Blow through my ears! the sky seem'd not a sky
Of earth, and with what motion mov'd the clouds!
The mind of Man is fram'd even like the breath
And harmony of music. There is a dark
Invisible workmanship that reconciles
Discordant elements, and makes them move
In one society. Ah me! that all
The terrors, all the early miseries
Regrets, vexations, lassitudes, that all
The thoughts and feelings which have been infus'd
Into my mind, should ever have made up
The calm existence that is mine when I
Am worthy of myself! Praise to the end!
Thanks likewise for the means! But I believe
That Nature, oftentimes, when she would frame
A favor'd Being, from his earliest dawn
Of infancy doth open out the clouds,
As at the touch of lightning, seeking him
With gentlest visitation; not the less,
Though haply aiming at the self-same end,
Does it delight her sometimes to employ
Severer interventions, ministry
More palpable, and so she dealt with me.
One evening (surely I was led by her)
I went alone into a Shepherd's Boat,
A Skiff that to a Willow tree was tied
Within a rocky Cave, its usual home.
'Twas by the shores of Patterdale, a Vale
Wherein I was a Stranger, thither come
A School-boy Traveller, at the Holidays.
Forth rambled from the Village Inn alone
No sooner had I sight of this small Skiff,
Discover'd thus by unexpected chance,
Than I unloos'd her tether and embark'd.
The moon was up, the Lake was shining clear
Among the hoary mountains; from the Shore
I push'd, and struck the oars and struck again
In cadence, and my little Boat mov'd on
Even like a Man who walks with stately step
Though bent on speed. It was an act of stealth
And troubled pleasure; not without the voice
Of mountain-echoes did my Boat move on,
Leaving behind her still on either side
Small circles glittering idly in the moon,
Until they melted all into one track
Of sparkling light. A rocky Steep uprose
Above the Cavern of the Willow tree
And now, as suited one who proudly row'd
With his best skill, I fix'd a steady view
Upon the top of that same craggy ridge,
The bound of the horizon, for behind
Was nothing but the stars and the grey sky.
She was an elfin Pinnace; lustily
I dipp'd my oars into the silent Lake,
And, as I rose upon the stroke, my Boat
Went heaving through the water, like a Swan;
When from behind that craggy Steep, till then
The bound of the horizon, a huge Cliff,
As if with voluntary power instinct,
Uprear'd its head. I struck, and struck again
And, growing still in stature, the huge Cliff
Rose up between me and the stars, and still,
With measur'd motion, like a living thing,
Strode after me. With trembling hands I turn'd,
And through the silent water stole my way
Back to the Cavern of the Willow tree.
There, in her mooring-place, I left my Bark,
And, through the meadows homeward went, with grave
And serious thoughts; and after I had seen
That spectacle, for many days, my brain
Work'd with a dim and undetermin'd sense
Of unknown modes of being; in my thoughts
There was a darkness, call it solitude,
Or blank desertion, no familiar shapes
Of hourly objects, images of trees,
Of sea or sky, no colours of green fields;
But huge and mighty Forms that do not live
Like living men mov'd slowly through the mind
By day and were the trouble of my dreams.
Wisdom and Spirit of the universe!
Thou Soul that art the eternity of thought!
That giv'st to forms and images a breath
And everlasting motion! not in vain,
By day or star-light thus from my first dawn
Of Childhood didst Thou intertwine for me
The passions that build up our human Soul,
Not with the mean and vulgar works of Man,
But with high objects, with enduring things,
With life and nature, purifying thus
The elements of feeling and of thought,
And sanctifying, by such discipline,
Both pain and fear, until we recognize
A grandeur in the beatings of the heart.
Nor was this fellowship vouchsaf'd to me
With stinted kindness. In November days,
When vapours, rolling down the valleys, made
A lonely scene more lonesome; among woods
At noon, and 'mid the calm of summer nights,
When, by the margin of the trembling Lake,
Beneath the gloomy hills I homeward went
In solitude, such intercourse was mine;
'Twas mine among the fields both day and night,
And by the waters all the summer long.
And in the frosty season, when the sun
Was set, and visible for many a mile
The cottage windows through the twilight blaz'd,
I heeded not the summons:--happy time
It was, indeed, for all of us; to me
It was a time of rapture: clear and loud
The village clock toll'd six; I wheel'd about,
Proud and exulting, like an untired horse,
That cares not for its home.--All shod with steel,
We hiss'd along the polish'd ice, in games
Confederate, imitative of the chace
And woodland pleasures, the resounding horn,
The Pack loud bellowing, and the hunted hare.
So through the darkness and the cold we flew,
And not a voice was idle; with the din,
Meanwhile, the precipices rang aloud,
The leafless trees, and every icy crag
Tinkled like iron, while the distant hills
Into the tumult sent an alien sound
Of melancholy, not unnoticed, while the stars,
Eastward, were sparkling clear, and in the west
The orange sky of evening died away.
Not seldom from the uproar I retired
Into a silent bay, or sportively
Glanced sideway, leaving the tumultuous throng,
To cut across the image of a star
That gleam'd upon the ice: and oftentimes
When we had given our bodies to the wind,
And all the shadowy banks, on either side,
Came sweeping through the darkness, spinning still
The rapid line of motion; then at once
Have I, reclining back upon my heels,
Stopp'd short, yet still the solitary Cliffs
Wheeled by me, even as if the earth had roll'd
With visible motion her diurnal round;
Behind me did they stretch in solemn train
Feebler and feebler, and I stood and watch'd
Till all was tranquil as a dreamless sleep.
Ye Presences of Nature, in the sky
And on the earth! Ye Visions of the hills!
And Souls of lonely places! can I think
A vulgar hope was yours when Ye employ'd
Such ministry, when Ye through many a year
Haunting me thus among my boyish sports,
On caves and trees, upon the woods and hills,
Impress'd upon all forms the characters
Of danger or desire, and thus did make
The surface of the universal earth
With triumph, and delight, and hope, and fear,
Work like a sea?       Not uselessly employ'd,
I might pursue this theme through every change
Of exercise and play, to which the year
Did summon us in its delightful round.
We were a noisy crew, the sun in heaven
Beheld not vales more beautiful than ours,
Nor saw a race in happiness and joy
More worthy of the ground where they were sown.
I would record with no reluctant voice
The woods of autumn and their hazel bowers
With milk-white clusters hung; the rod and line,
True symbol of the foolishness of hope,
Which with its strong enchantment led us on
By rocks and pools, shut out from every star
All the green summer, to forlorn cascades
Among the windings of the mountain brooks.
--Unfading recollections! at this hour
The heart is almost mine with which I felt
From some hill-top, on sunny afternoons
The Kite high up among the fleecy clouds
Pull at its rein, like an impatient Courser,
Or, from the meadows sent on gusty days,
Beheld her breast the wind, then suddenly
Dash'd headlong; and rejected by the storm.
Ye lowly Cottages in which we dwelt,
A ministration of your own was yours,
A sanctity, a safeguard, and a love!
Can I forget you, being as ye were
So beautiful among the pleasant fields
In which ye stood? Or can I here forget
The plain and seemly countenance with which
Ye dealt out your plain comforts? Yet had ye
Delights and exultations of your own.
Eager and never weary we pursued
Our home amusements by the warm peat-fire
At evening; when with pencil and with slate,
In square divisions parcell'd out, and all
With crosses and with cyphers scribbled o'er,
We schemed and puzzled, head opposed to head
In strife too humble to be named in Verse.
Or round the naked table, snow-white deal,
Cherry or maple, sate in close array,
And to the combat, Lu or Whist, led on
thick-ribbed Army; not as in the world
Neglected and ungratefully thrown by
Even for the very service they had wrought,
But husbanded through many a long campaign.
Uncouth assemblage was it, where no few
Had changed their functions, some, plebeian cards,
Which Fate beyond the promise of their birth
Had glorified, and call'd to represent
The persons of departed Potentates.
Oh! with what echoes on the Board they fell!
Ironic Diamonds, Clubs, Hearts, Diamonds, Spades,
A congregation piteously akin.
Cheap matter did they give to boyish wit,
Those sooty knaves, precipitated down
With scoffs and taunts, like Vulcan out of Heaven,
The paramount Ace, a moon in her eclipse,
Queens, gleaming through their splendour's last decay,
And Monarchs, surly at the wrongs sustain'd
By royal visages. Meanwhile, abroad
The heavy rain was falling, or the frost
Raged bitterly, with keen and silent tooth,
And, interrupting oft the impassion'd game,
From Esthwaite's neighbouring Lake the splitting ice,
While it sank down towards the water, sent,
Among the meadows and the hills, its long
And dismal yellings, like the noise of wolves
When they are howling round the Bothnic Main.
Nor, sedulous as I have been to trace
How Nature by extrinsic passion first
Peopled my mind with beauteous forms or grand,
And made me love them, may I well forget
How other pleasures have been mine, and joys
Of subtler origin; how I have felt,
Not seldom, even in that tempestuous time,
Those hallow'd and pure motions of the sense
Which seem, in their simplicity, to own
An intellectual charm, that calm delight
Which, if I err not, surely must belong
To those first-born affinities that fit
Our new existence to existing things,
And, in our dawn of being, constitute
The bond of union betwixt life and joy.
Yes, I remember, when the changeful earth,
And twice five seasons on my mind had stamp'd
The faces of the moving year, even then,
A Child, I held unconscious intercourse
With the eternal Beauty, drinking in
A pure organic pleasure from the lines
Of curling mist, or from the level plain
Of waters colour'd by the steady clouds.
The Sands of Westmoreland, the Creeks and Bays
Of Cumbria's rocky limits, they can tell
How when the Sea threw off his evening shade
And to the Shepherd's huts beneath the crags
Did send sweet notice of the rising moon,
How I have stood, to fancies such as these,
Engrafted in the tenderness of thought,
A stranger, linking with the spectacle
No conscious memory of a kindred sight,
And bringing with me no peculiar sense
Of quietness or peace, yet I have stood,
Even while mine eye has mov'd o'er three long leagues
Of shining water, gathering, as it seem'd,
Through every hair-breadth of that field of light,
New pleasure, like a bee among the flowers.
Thus, often in those fits of vulgar joy
Which, through all seasons, on a child's pursuits
Are prompt attendants, 'mid that giddy bliss
Which, like a tempest, works along the blood
And is forgotten; even then I felt
Gleams like the flashing of a shield; the earth
And common face of Nature spake to me
Rememberable things; sometimes, 'tis true,
By chance collisions and quaint accidents
Like those ill-sorted unions, work suppos'd
Of evil-minded fairies, yet not vain
Nor profitless, if haply they impress'd
Collateral objects and appearances,
Albeit lifeless then, and doom'd to sleep
Until maturer seasons call'd them forth
To impregnate and to elevate the mind.
--And if the vulgar joy by its own weight
Wearied itself out of the memory,
The scenes which were a witness of that joy
Remained, in their substantial lineaments
Depicted on the brain, and to the eye
Were visible, a daily sight; and thus
By the impressive discipline of fear,
By pleasure and repeated happiness,
So frequently repeated, and by force
Of obscure feelings representative
Of joys that were forgotten, these same scenes,
So beauteous and majestic in themselves,
Though yet the day was distant, did at length
Become habitually dear, and all
Their hues and forms were by invisible links
Allied to the affections.       I began
My story early, feeling as I fear,
The weakness of a human love, for days
Disown'd by memory, ere the birth of spring
Planting my snowdrops among winter snows.
Nor will it seem to thee, my Friend! so prompt
In sympathy, that I have lengthen'd out,
With fond and feeble tongue, a tedious tale.
Meanwhile, my hope has been that I might fetch
Invigorating thoughts from former years,
Might fix the wavering balance of my wind,
And haply meet reproaches, too, whose power
May spur me on, in manhood now mature,
To honorable toil. Yet should these hopes
Be vain, and thus should neither I be taught
To understand myself, nor thou to know
With better knowledge how the heart was fram'd
Of him thou lovest, need I dread from thee
Harsh judgments, if I am so loth to quit
Those recollected hours that have the charm
Of visionary things, and lovely forms
And sweet sensations that throw back our life
And almost make our Infancy itself
A visible scene, on which the sun is shining?
One end hereby at least hath been attain'd,
My mind hath been revived, and if this mood
Desert me not, I will forthwith bring down,
Through later years, the story of my life.
The road lies plain before me; 'tis a theme
Single and of determined bounds; and hence
I chuse it rather at this time, than work
Of ampler or more varied argument.
.  Thus far, O Friend! have we, though leaving much
Unvisited, endeavour'd to retrace
My life through its first years, and measured back
The way I travell'd when I first began
To love the woods and fields; the passion yet
Was in its birth, sustain'd, as might befal,
By nourishment that came unsought, for still,
From week to week, from month to month, we liv'd
A round of tumult: duly were our games
Prolong'd in summer till the day-light fail'd;
No chair remain'd before the doors, the bench
And threshold steps were empty; fast asleep
The Labourer, and the old Man who had sate,
A later lingerer, yet the revelry
Continued, and the loud uproar: at last,
When all the ground was dark, and the huge clouds
Were edged with twinkling stars, to bed we went,
With weary joints, and with a beating mind.
Ah! is there one who ever has been young,
Nor needs a monitory voice to tame
The pride of virtue, and of intellect?
And is there one, the wisest and the best
Of all mankind, who does not sometimes wish
For things which cannot be, who would not give,
If so he might, to duty and to truth
The eagerness of infantine desire?
A tranquillizing spirit presses now
On my corporeal frame: so wide appears
The vacancy between me and those days,
Which yet have such self-presence in my mind
That, sometimes, when I think of them, I seem
Two consciousnesses, conscious of myself
And of some other Being. A grey Stone
Of native rock, left midway in the Square
Of our small market Village, was the home
And centre of these joys, and when, return'd
After long absence, thither I repair'd,
I found that it was split, and gone to build
A smart Assembly-room that perk'd and flar'd
With wash and rough-cast elbowing the ground
Which had been ours. But let the fiddle scream,
And be ye happy! yet, my Friends! I know
That more than one of you will think with me
Of those soft starry nights, and that old Dame
From whom the stone was nam'd who there had sate
And watch'd her Table with its huckster's wares
Assiduous, thro' the length of sixty years.
We ran a boisterous race; the year span round
With giddy motion. But the time approach'd
That brought with it a regular desire
For calmer pleasures, when the beauteous forms
Of Nature were collaterally attach'd
To every scheme of holiday delight,
And every boyish sport, less grateful else,
And languidly pursued.         When summer came
It was the pastime of our afternoons
To beat along the plain of Windermere
With rival oars, and the selected bourne
Was now an Island musical with birds
That sang for ever; now a Sister Isle
Beneath the oaks' umbrageous covert, sown
With lillies of the valley, like a field;
And now a third small Island where remain'd
An old stone Table, and a moulder'd Cave,
A Hermit's history. In such a race,
So ended, disappointment could be none,
Uneasiness, or pain, or jealousy:
We rested in the shade, all pleas'd alike,
Conquer'd and Conqueror. Thus the pride of strength,
And the vain-glory of superior skill
Were interfus'd with objects which subdu'd
And temper'd them, and gradually produc'd
A quiet independence of the heart.
And to my Friend, who knows me, I may add,
Unapprehensive of reproof, that hence
Ensu'd a diffidence and modesty,
And I was taught to feel, perhaps too much,
The self-sufficing power of solitude.
No delicate viands sapp'd our bodily strength;
More than we wish'd we knew the blessing then
Of vigorous hunger, for our daily meals
Were frugal, Sabine fare! and then, exclude
A little weekly stipend, and we lived
Through three divisions of the quarter'd year
In pennyless poverty. But now, to School
Return'd, from the half-yearly holidays,
We came with purses more profusely fill'd,
Allowance which abundantly suffic'd
To gratify the palate with repasts
More costly than the Dame of whom I spake,
That ancient Woman, and her board supplied.
Hence inroads into distant Vales, and long
Excursions far away among the hills,
Hence rustic dinners on the cool green ground,
Or in the woods, or near a river side,
Or by some shady fountain, while soft airs
Among the leaves were stirring, and the sun
Unfelt, shone sweetly round us in our joy.
Nor is my aim neglected, if I tell
How twice in the long length of those half-years
We from our funds, perhaps, with bolder hand
Drew largely, anxious for one day, at least,
To feel the motion of the galloping Steed;
And with the good old Inn-keeper, in truth,
On such occasion sometimes we employ'd
Sly subterfuge; for the intended bound
Of the day's journey was too distant far
For any cautious man, a Structure famed
Beyond its neighbourhood, the antique Walls
Of that large Abbey which within the vale
Of Nightshade, to St. Mary's honour built,
Stands yet, a mouldering Pile, with fractured Arch,
Belfry, and Images, and living Trees,
A holy Scene! along the smooth green turf
Our Horses grazed: to more than inland peace
Left by the sea wind passing overhead
(Though wind of roughest temper) trees and towers
May in that Valley oftentimes be seen,
Both silent and both motionless alike;
Such is the shelter that is there, and such
The safeguard for repose and quietness.
Our steeds remounted, and the summons given,
With whip and spur we by the Chauntry flew
In uncouth race, and left the cross-legg'd Knight,
And the stone-Abbot, and that single Wren
Which one day sang so sweetly in the Nave
Of the old Church, that, though from recent showers
The earth was comfortless, and, touch'd by faint
Internal breezes, sobbings of the place,
And respirations, from the roofless walls
The shuddering ivy dripp'd large drops, yet still,
So sweetly 'mid the gloom the invisible Bird
Sang to itself, that there I could have made
My dwelling-place, and liv'd for ever there
To hear such music. Through the Walls we flew
And down the valley, and a circuit made
In wantonness of heart, through rough and smooth
We scamper'd homeward. Oh! ye Rocks and Streams,
And that still Spirit of the evening air!
Even in this joyous time I sometimes felt
Your presence, when with slacken'd step we breath'd
Along the sides of the steep hills, or when,
Lighted by gleams of moonlight from the sea,
We beat with thundering hoofs the level sand.
Upon the Eastern Shore of Windermere,
Above the crescent of a pleasant Bay,
There stood an Inn, no homely-featured Shed,
Brother of the surrounding Cottages,
But 'twas a splendid place, the door beset
With Chaises, Grooms, and Liveries, and within
Decanters, Glasses, and the blood-red Wine.
In ancient times, or ere the Hall was built
On the large Island, had this Dwelling been
More worthy of a Poet's love, a Hut,
Proud of its one bright fire, and sycamore shade.
But though the rhymes were gone which once inscribed
The threshold, and large golden characters
On the blue-frosted Signboard had usurp'd
The place of the old Lion, in contempt
And mockery of the rustic painter's hand,
Yet to this hour the spot to me is dear
With all its foolish pomp. The garden lay
Upon a slope surmounted by the plain
Of a small Bowling-green; beneath us stood
A grove; with gleams of water through the trees
And over the tree-tops; nor did we want
Refreshment, strawberries and mellow cream.
And there, through half an afternoon, we play'd
On the smooth platform, and the shouts we sent
Made all the mountains ring. But ere the fall
Of night, when in our pinnace we return'd
Over the dusky Lake, and to the beach
Of some small Island steer'd our course with one,
The Minstrel of our troop, and left him there,
And row'd off gently, while he blew his flute
Alone upon the rock; Oh! then the calm
And dead still water lay upon my mind
Even with a weight of pleasure, and the sky
Never before so beautiful, sank down
Into my heart, and held me like a dream.
Thus daily were my sympathies enlarged,
And thus the common range of visible things
Grew dear to me: already I began
To love the sun, a Boy I lov'd the sun,
Not as I since have lov'd him, as a pledge
And surety of our earthly life, a light
Which while we view we feel we are alive;
But, for this cause, that I had seen him lay
His beauty on the morning hills, had seen
The western mountain touch his setting orb,
In many a thoughtless hour, when, from excess
Of happiness, my blood appear'd to flow
With its own pleasure, and I breath'd with joy.
And from like feelings, humble though intense,
To patriotic and domestic love
Analogous, the moon to me was dear;
For I would dream away my purposes,
Standing to look upon her while she hung
Midway between the hills, as if she knew
No other region; but belong'd to thee,
Yea, appertain'd by a peculiar right
To thee and thy grey huts, my darling Vale!
Those incidental charms which first attach'd
My heart to rural objects, day by day
Grew weaker, and I hasten on to tell
How Nature, intervenient till this time,
And secondary, now at length was sought
For her own sake. But who shall parcel out
His intellect, by geometric rules,
Split, like a province, into round and square?
Who knows the individual hour in which
His habits were first sown, even as a seed,
Who that shall point, as with a wand, and say,
'This portion of the river of my mind
Came from yon fountain?' Thou, my Friend! art one
More deeply read in thy own thoughts; to thee
Science appears but, what in truth she is,
Not as our glory and our absolute boast,
But as a succedaneum, and a prop
To our infirmity. Thou art no slave
Of that false secondary power, by which,
In weakness, we create distinctions, then
Deem that our puny boundaries are things
Which we perceive, and not which we have made.
To thee, unblinded by these outward shows,
The unity of all has been reveal'd
And thou wilt doubt with me, less aptly skill'd
Than many are to class the cabinet
Of their sensations, and, in voluble phrase,
Run through the history and birth of each,
As of a single independent thing.
Hard task to analyse a soul, in which,
Not only general habits and desires,
But each most obvious and particular thought,
Not in a mystical and idle sense,
But in the words of reason deeply weigh'd,
Hath no beginning.          Bless'd the infant Babe,
(For with my best conjectures I would trace
The progress of our Being) blest the Babe,
Nurs'd in his Mother's arms, the Babe who sleeps
Upon his Mother's breast, who, when his soul
Claims manifest kindred with an earthly soul,
Doth gather passion from his Mother's eye!
Such feelings pass into his torpid life
Like an awakening breeze, and hence his mind
Even [in the first trial of its powers]
Is prompt and watchful, eager to combine
In one appearance, all the elements
And parts of the same object, else detach'd
And loth to coalesce. Thus, day by day,
Subjected to the discipline of love,
His organs and recipient faculties
Are quicken'd, are more vigorous, his mind spreads,
Tenacious of the forms which it receives.
In one beloved presence, nay and more,
In that most apprehensive habitude
And those sensations which have been deriv'd
From this beloved Presence, there exists
A virtue which irradiates and exalts
All objects through all intercourse of sense.
No outcast he, bewilder'd and depress'd;
Along his infant veins are interfus'd
The gravitation and the filial bond
Of nature, that connect him with the world.
Emphatically such a Being lives,
An inmate of this  active universe;
From nature largely he receives; nor so
Is satisfied, but largely gives again,
For feeling has to him imparted strength,
And powerful in all sentiments of grief,
Of exultation, fear, and joy, his mind,
Even as an agent of the one great mind,
Creates, creator and receiver both,
Working but in alliance with the works
Which it beholds.--Such, verily, is the first
Poetic spirit of our human life;
By uniform control of after years
In most abated or suppress'd, in some,
Through every change of growth or of decay,
Pre-eminent till death.       From early days,
Beginning not long after that first time
In which, a Babe, by intercourse of touch,
I held mute dialogues with my Mother's heart
I have endeavour'd to display the means
Whereby this infant sensibility,
Great birthright of our Being, was in me
Augmented and sustain'd. Yet is a path
More difficult before me, and I fear
That in its broken windings we shall need
The chamois' sinews, and the eagle's wing:
For now a trouble came into my mind
From unknown causes. I was left alone,
Seeking the visible world, nor knowing why.
The props of my affections were remov'd,
And yet the building stood, as if sustain'd
By its own spirit! All that I beheld
Was dear to me, and from this cause it came,
That now to Nature's finer influxes
My mind lay open, to that more exact
And intimate communion which our hearts
Maintain with the minuter properties
Of objects which already are belov'd,
And of those only. Many are the joys
Of youth; but oh! what happiness to live
When every hour brings palpable access
Of knowledge, when all knowledge is delight,
And sorrow is not there. The seasons came,
And every season to my notice brought
A store of transitory qualities
Which, but for this most watchful power of love
Had been neglected, left a register
Of permanent relations, else unknown,
Hence life, and change, and beauty, solitude
More active, even, than 'best society',
Society made sweet as solitude
By silent inobtrusive sympathies,
And gentle agitations of the mind
From manifold distinctions, difference
Perceived in things, where to the common eye,
No difference is; and hence, from the same source
Sublimer joy; for I would walk alone,
In storm and tempest, or in starlight nights
Beneath the quiet Heavens; and, at that time,
Have felt whate'er there is of power in sound
To breathe an elevated mood, by form
Or image unprofaned; and I would stand,
Beneath some rock, listening to sounds that are
The ghostly language of the ancient earth,
Or make their dim abode in distant winds.
Thence did I drink the visionary power.
I deem not profitless those fleeting moods
Of shadowy exultation: not for this,
That they are kindred to our purer mind
And intellectual life; but that the soul,
Remembering how she felt, but what she felt
Remembering not, retains an obscure sense
Of possible sublimity, to which,
With growing faculties she doth aspire,
With faculties still growing, feeling still
That whatsoever point they gain, they still
Have something to pursue.       And not alone,
In grandeur and in tumult, but no less
In tranquil scenes, that universal power
And fitness in the latent qualities
And essences of things, by which the mind
Is mov'd by feelings of delight, to me
Came strengthen'd with a superadded soul,
A virtue not its own. My morning walks
Were early; oft, before the hours of School
I travell'd round our little Lake, five miles
Of pleasant wandering, happy time! more dear
For this, that one was by my side, a Friend
Then passionately lov'd; with heart how full
Will he peruse these lines, this page, perhaps
A blank to other men! for many years
Have since flow'd in between us; and our minds,
Both silent to each other, at this time
We live as if those hours had never been.
Nor seldom did I lift our cottage latch
Far earlier, and before the vernal thrush
Was audible, among the hills I sate
Alone, upon some jutting eminence
At the first hour of morning, when the Vale
Lay quiet in an utter solitude.
How shall I trace the history, where seek
The origin of what I then have felt?
Oft in these moments such a holy calm
Did overspread my soul, that I forgot
That I had bodily eyes, and what I saw
Appear'd like something in myself, a dream,
A prospect in my mind.       'Twere long to tell
What spring and autumn, what the winter snows,
And what the summer shade, what day and night,
The evening and the morning, what my dreams
And what my waking thoughts supplied, to nurse
That spirit of religious love in which
I walked with Nature. But let this, at least
Be not forgotten, that I still retain'd
My first creative sensibility,
That by the regular action of the world
My soul was unsubdu'd. A plastic power
Abode with me, a forming hand, at times
Rebellious, acting in a devious mood,
A local spirit of its own, at war
With general tendency, but for the most
Subservient strictly to the external things
With which it commun'd. An auxiliar light
Came from my mind which on the setting sun
Bestow'd new splendor, the melodious birds,
The gentle breezes, fountains that ran on,
Murmuring so sweetly in themselves, obey'd
A like dominion; and the midnight storm
Grew darker in the presence of my eye.
Hence by obeisance, my devotion hence,
And hence my transport.       Nor should this, perchance,
Pass unrecorded, that I still have lov'd
The exercise and produce of a toil
Than analytic industry to me
More pleasing, and whose character I deem
Is more poetic as resembling more
Creative agency. I mean to speak
Of that interminable building rear'd
By observation of affinities
In objects where no brotherhood exists
To common minds. My seventeenth year was come
And, whether from this habit, rooted now
So deeply in my mind, or from excess
Of the great social principle of life,
Coercing all things into sympathy,
To unorganic natures I transferr'd
My own enjoyments, or, the power of truth
Coming in revelation, I convers'd
With things that really are, I, at this time
Saw blessings spread around me like a sea.
Thus did my days pass on, and now at length
From Nature and her overflowing soul
I had receiv'd so much that all my thoughts
Were steep'd in feeling; I was only then
Contented when with bliss ineffable
I felt the sentiment of Being spread
O'er all that moves, and all that seemeth still,
O'er all, that, lost beyond the reach of thought
And human knowledge, to the human eye
Invisible, yet liveth to the heart,
O'er all that leaps, and runs, and shouts, and sings,
Or beats the gladsome air, o'er all that glides
Beneath the wave, yea, in the wave itself
And mighty depth of waters. Wonder not
If such my transports were; for in all things
I saw one life, and felt that it was joy.
One song they sang, and it was audible,
Most audible then when the fleshly ear,
O'ercome by grosser prelude of that strain,
Forgot its functions, and slept undisturb'd.
If this be error, and another faith
Find easier access to the pious mind,
Yet were I grossly destitute of all
Those human sentiments which make this earth
So dear, if I should fail, with grateful voice
To speak of you, Ye Mountains and Ye Lakes,
And sounding Cataracts! Ye Mists and Winds
That dwell among the hills where I was born.
If, in my youth, I have been pure in heart,
If, mingling with the world, I am content
With my own modest pleasures, and have liv'd,
With God and Nature communing, remov'd
From little enmities and low desires,
The gift is yours; if in these times of fear,
This melancholy waste of hopes o'erthrown,
If, 'mid indifference and apathy
And wicked exultation, when good men,
On every side fall off we know not how,
To selfishness, disguis'd in gentle names
Of peace, and quiet, and domestic love,
Yet mingled, not unwillingly, with sneers
On visionary minds; if in this time
Of dereliction and dismay, I yet
Despair not of our nature; but retain
A more than Roman confidence, a faith
That fails not, in all sorrow my support,
The blessing of my life, the gift is yours,
Ye mountains! thine, O Nature! Thou hast fed
My lofty speculations; and in thee,
For this uneasy heart of ours I find
A never-failing principle of joy,
And purest passion.       Thou, my Friend! wert rear'd
In the great City, 'mid far other scenes;
But we, by different roads at length have gain'd
The self-same bourne. And for this cause to Thee
I speak, unapprehensive of contempt,
The insinuated scoff of coward tongues,
And all that silent language which so oft
In conversation betwixt man and man
Blots from the human countenance all trace
Of beauty and of love. For Thou hast sought
The truth in solitude, and Thou art one,
The most intense of Nature's worshippers
In many things my Brother, chiefly here
In this my deep devotion.       Fare Thee well!
Health, and the quiet of a healthful mind
Attend thee! seeking oft the haunts of men,
And yet more often living with Thyself,
And for Thyself, so haply shall thy days
Be many, and a blessing to mankind.
Auditæ voces, vagitus et ingens,Infantunque animæ flentes in limine primo. Virg.ADVERTISEMENT
What particulars in Spenser were imagined most proper for the author's imitationon this occasion, are his language, his simplicity, his manner of description,and a peculiar tenderness of sentiment remarkable throughout his works.
Ah me! full sorely is my heart forlorn,
To think how modest worth neglected lies;
While partial fame doth with her blasts adorn
Such deeds alone, as pride and pomp disguise;
Deeds of ill sort, and mischievous emprize!
Lend me thy clarion, goddess! let me try
To sound the praise of merit, ere it dies;
Such as I oft have chaunced to espy,
Lost in the dreary shades of dull obscurity.
In ev'ry village mark'd with little spire,
Embow'r'd in trees, and hardly known to fame,
There dwells, in lowly shed, and mean attire,
A matron old, whom we school-mistress name;
Who boasts unruly brats with birch to tame;
They grieven sore, in piteous durance pent,
Aw'd by the pow'r of this relentless dame;
And oft-times, on vagaries idly bent,
For unkempt hair, or task unconn'd, are sorely shent.
And all in sight doth rise a birchen tree,
Which learning near her little dome did stowe;
Whilom a twig of small regard to see,
Tho' now so wide its waving branches flow;
And work the simple vassals mickle woe;
For not a wind might curl the leaves that blew,
But their limbs shudder'd, and their pulse beat low;
And, as they look'd, they found their horror grew,
And shap'd it into rods, and tingled at the view.
So have I seen (who has not, may conceive,)
A lifeless phantom near a garden plac'd;
So doth it wanton birds of peace bereave,
Of sport, of song, of pleasure, of repast;
They start, they stare, they wheel, they look aghast:
Sad servitude! such comfortless annoy
May no bold Briton's riper age e'er taste!
Ne superstition clog his dance of joy,
Ne vision empty, vain, his native bliss destroy.
Near to this dome is found a patch so green,
On which the tribe their gambols do display;
And at the door impris'ning board is seen,
Lest weakly wights of smaller size should stray;
Eager, perdie, to bask in sunny day!
The noises intermix'd, which thence resound,
Do learning's little tenement betray:
Where sits the dame, disguis'd in look profound,
And eyes her fairy throng, and turns her wheel around.
Her cap, far whiter than the driven snow,
Emblem right meet of decency does yield:
Her apron dy'd in grain, as blue, I trowe,
As is the hare-bell that adorns the field:
And in her hand, for scepter, she does wield
Tway birchen sprays; with anxious fear entwin'd,
With dark distrust, and sad repentance fill'd;
And stedfast hate, and sharp affliction join'd,
And fury uncontroul'd, and chastisement unkind.
Few but have kenn'd, in semblance meet pourtray'd,
The childish faces of old Eol's train;
Libs, Notus, Auster: these in frowns array'd,
How then would fare or earth, or sky, or main,
Were the stern god to give his slaves the rein?
And were not she rebellious breasts to quell,
And were not she her statutes to maintain,
The cott no more, I ween, were deem'd the cell,
Where comely peace of mind, and decent order dwell.
A russet stole was o'er her shoulders thrown;
A russet kirtle fenc'd the nipping air;
'Twas simple russet, but it was her own;
'Twas her own country bred the flock so fair;
'Twas her own labour did the fleece prepare;
And, sooth to say, her pupils, rang'd around,
Thro' pious awe, did term it passing rare;
For they in gaping wonderment abound,
And think, no doubt, she been the greatest wight on ground
Albeit ne flatt'ry did corrupt her truth,
Ne pompous title did debauch her ear;
Goody, good-woman, gossip, n'aunt, forsooth,
Or dame, the sole additions she did hear;
Yet these she challeng'd, these she held right dear:
Ne would esteem him act as mought behove,
Who should not honour'd eld with these revere:
For never title yet so mean could prove,
But there was eke a mind which did that title love.
One ancient hen she took delight to feed,
The plodding pattern of the busy dame;
Which, ever and anon, impell'd by need,
Into her school, begirt with chickens, came;
Such favour did her past deportment claim:
And, if neglect had lavish'd on the ground
Fragment of bread, she would collect the same;
For well she knew, and quaintly could expound,
What sin it were to waste the smallest crumb she found.
...
Executioner happy to explain
How his wristwatch works
As he shadows me on the street.
I call him that because he is grim and officious
And wears black.
The clock on the church tower
Had stopped at five to eleven.
The morning newspapers had no date.
The gray building on the corner
Could've been a state pen,
And then he showed up with his watch,
Whose Gothic numerals
And the absence of hands
He wanted me to understand
Right then and there.
It was a remote village,
A school teacher single,
With boys of assorted age,
Had to manage and tackle.
'Boys, Inspector, any time,
To inspect the school,
Is expected to come,
Be smart, ready and cool.'
'He may, perhaps, ask you,
The shape of the world,
My snuff box, all of you
See how it is round.'
'I'll keep it on my table,
For your remembrance here,
One of you should be able
To answer, have no fear.'
Suddenly on a Sunday,
Knowing it was a holiday,
He came to inspect, on his way
To his own village nearby.
The teacher rang the bell.
The boys were puzzled.
It was short of a hell,
To have them assembled.
Boys with unkempt hair,
Boys with soiled dress,
Boys with faces poor,
Took their seats in the class.
The teacher in a hurry,
Kept a square snuff box,
And was feeling sorry,
To miss his round box.
The boys, as expected,
Heard the same query
With their hands raised,
Kept the answer ready.
Up one of them stood,
And promptly he said,
'Square on all Sundays
And round on other days.'
When you were born it was an instant love affair
I rocked you, swaddled you, sang to you,
Read to you and walked you round and round
We played and learned together.
I held your little hands from your first steps
To the back of the bicycle seat on your first ride
Doctored up scraped knees and bruised egos
Played the Tooth fairy, Easter Bunny and Santa Claus
When life took you through a challenge
I held you in my arms as you cried
We wiped the tears and stood up tall
Ready to face the world again
Late one night when I was awakened by the sounds
Of giggles coming from the adjacent room
I could've be upset that you had woken me
But the sound of your laughter made me smile
You were so late coming home one night
I cried at the thought of something happening to you
I was so angry that you hadn’t called
But upon seeing your beautiful face, all I could be was grateful
Now you’re ready to spread your wings
All of our trials and tribulations are ancient history
Go now my love into the world
Make your mark and shine your light
You have been the source of my greatest joy
From your baby coos to your big girl shoes
Always remember who you are
You have always been my brightest star
If only you knew how much i love you
if only you cared that i was alive
but theres no way you would care if you knew
because you don't feel near the same as i
for you my love will never be shown
because you won't like me for i am sure
mt heart thirst for my love for you be shown
but broken will it be for ever more
if only you knew my love so deep
my heart wouldnt ache for your love
i wouldn't have to cry myself to sleep
if only i could get help from above
if only you knew how much i cared
you might love me back but i am too scared
This is it everything that you have gone through is now memories.
All of your happy and sad times in high school have now faded.
A new life has begun on your own.
No more waking up dreading that this day will never get here.
Now the day is here and your missing everyone before they even
walk through these high school doors.
Every memory is left unsaid.
On graduation day everyone cried, I even cried.
Knowing that I may never get to hang with my friends ever again.
Hoping they'll be here for my graduation crying with me.
This is it everything that you have gone through us now memories.
All of your happy and sad times in high school have now faded.
A new life has begun on your own.
No more waking up dreading that this day will never get here.
Now the day is here and your missing everyone before they even
walk through these high school doors.
Every memory is left unsaid.
On graduation day everyone cried, I even cried.
Knowing that I may never get to hang with my friends ever again.
Hoping they'll be here for my graduation crying with me.
Yes it's still situated in the same place.
And it's very hard to find.
Surrounding almost changed.
They have flatten with bulldozers all and made skyscrapers around.
A concrete city! But it's situated in the same place.
My old teachers were not there and the belfry hall is very old.
Thatched roof converted to tin sheets and there were few more class rooms.
Mango and Jack-fruit trees no more.
Where were my old friends?
The Principal is my friend's son
Who was surprised?
When I asked that I want to enroll.
Across the sea, along the shore,
In numbers more and ever more,
From lonely hut and busy town,
The valley through, the mountain down,
What was it ye went out to see,
Ye silly folk Galilee?
The reed that in the wind doth shake?
The weed that washes in the lake?
The reeds that waver, the weeds that float?
A young man preaching in a boat.
What was it ye went out to hear
By sea and land from far and near?
A teacher? Rather seek the feet
Of those who sit in Moses' seat.
Go humbly seek, and bow to them,
Far off in great Jerusalem.
From them that in her courts ye saw,
Her perfect doctors of the law,
What is it came ye here to note?
A young man preaching in a boat.
A prophet! Boys and women weak!
Declare, or cease to rave;
Whence is it he hath learned to speak?
Say, who his doctrine gave?
A prophet? Prophet wherefore he
Of all in Israel tribes?
He teacheth with authority,
And not as do the Scribes.
To Ernest Brace
"And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was
about to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto
me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and
write them not."                           --REVELATIONS, x, 4.
That raft we rigged up, under the water,
Was just the item: when he walked,
With his robes blowing, dark against the sky,
It was as though the unsubstantial waves held up
His slender and inviolate feet. The gulls flew over,
Dropping, crying alone; thin ragged lengths of cloud
Drifted in bars across the sun. There on the shore
The crowd's response was instantaneous. He
Handled it well, I thought--the gait, the tilt of the head, just right.
Long streaks of light were blinding on the waves.
And then we knew our work well worth the time:
The days of sawing, fitting, all those nails,
The tiresome rehearsals, considerations of execution.
But if you want a miracle, you have to work for it,
Lay your plans carefully and keep one jump
Ahead of the crowd. To report a miracle
Is a pleasure unalloyed; but staging one requires
Tact, imagination, a special knack for the job
Not everyone possesses. A miracle, in fact, means work.
--And now there are those who have come saying
That miracles were not what we were after. But what else
Is there? What other hope does life hold out
But the miraculous, the skilled and patient
Execution, the teamwork, all the pain and worry every miracle involves?
Visionaries tossing in their beds, haunted and racked
By questions of Messiahship and eschatology,
Are like the mist rising at nightfall, and come,
Perhaps to even less. Grave supernaturalists, devoted worshippers
Experience the ecstasy (such as it is), but not
Our ecstasy. It was our making. Yet sometimes
When the torrent of that time
Comes pouring back, I wonder at our courage
And our enterprise. It was as though the world
Had been one darkening, abandoned hall
Where rows of unlit candles stood; and we
Not out of love, so much, or hope, or even worship, but
Out of the fear of death, came with our lights
And watched the candles, one by one, take fire, flames
Against the long night of our fear. We thought
That we could never die. Now I am less convinced.
--The traveller on the plain makes out the mountains
At a distance; then he loses sight. His way
Winds through the valleys; then, at a sudden turning of a path,
The peaks stand nakedly before him: they are something else
Than what he saw below. I think now of the raft
(For me, somehow, the summit of the whole experience)
And all the expectations of that day, but also of the cave
We stocked with bread, the secret meetings
In the hills, the fake assassins hired for the last pursuit,
The careful staging of the cures, the bribed officials,
The angels' garments, tailored faultlessly,
The medicines administered behind the stone,
That ultimate cloud, so perfect, and so opportune.
Who managed all that blood I never knew.
The days get longer. It was a long time ago.
And I have come to that point in the turning of the path
Where peaks are infinite--horn-shaped and scaly, choked with
thorns.
But even here, I know our work was worth the cost.
What we have brought to pass, no one can take away.
Life offers up no miracles, unfortunately, and needs assistance.
Nothing will be the same as once it was,
I tell myself.--It's dark here on the peak, and keeps on getting
darker.
It seems I am experiencing a kind of ecstasy.
Was it sunlight on the waves that day? The night comes down.
And now the water seems remote, unreal, and perhaps it is.
AFTER the Sea-Ship--after the whistling winds;
After the white-gray sails, taut to their spars and ropes,
Below, a myriad, myriad waves, hastening, lifting up their necks,
Tending in ceaseless flow toward the track of the ship:
Waves of the ocean, bubbling and gurgling, blithely prying,
Waves, undulating waves--liquid, uneven, emulous waves,
Toward that whirling current, laughing and buoyant, with curves,
Where the great Vessel, sailing and tacking, displaced the surface;
Larger and smaller waves, in the spread of the ocean, yearnfully
flowing;
The wake of the Sea-Ship, after she passes--flashing and frolicsome,
under the sun,                                               10
A motley procession, with many a fleck of foam, and many fragments,
Following the stately and rapid Ship--in the wake following.
Alone i lay on a wooden raft
Alone i stay in the dark
Alone i pray to survive
Alone i may not survive
Alone i look out the sea
Alone i wake up on the sea
Alone i seek out for help
Alone i may not survive
Alone i eat my dry food
Alone i drink the salty water
Alone i sit in the cold
Alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i stare at the storm
Alone, yes, alone i live on the sea
Alone, yes, alone i wait for the rescue boat
Alone, yes, alone i may not survive
Alone, yes, alone i pray to be safe
Alone, yes, alone i call out for help
Alone, yes, alone i get on the boat
Alone, yes, alone i was rescued
Alone, yes, alone i lived on sea for months
Alone, yes, alone i walk ashore unaided
Alone, yes, alone i continue to hold the
Guinness World Record for survival at sea
Ye sons of Mars, come list to me,
And I will relate to ye
A great and heroic naval fight,
Which will fill your hearts with delight.
The fight was between the French Frigate "Pique" and the British Frigate "Blanche,"
But the British crew were bold and staunch;
And the battle was fought in West Indian waters in the year of 1795,
And for to gain the victory the French did nobly strive.
And on the morning of the 4th of January while cruising off Gadulope,
The look-out man from the foretop loudly spoke,
And cried, "Sail ahoy!" "Where away ?"
"On the lee bow, close in shore, sir," was answered without delay.
Then Captain Faulkner cried, "Clear the decks!"
And the French vessel with his eyeglass he inspects;
And he told his men to hoist the British flag,
And "prepare my heroes to pull down that French rag."
Then the "Blanche" made sail and bore away
In the direction of the "Pique" without delay;
And Captain Fauikner cried, "Now, my lads, bear down on him,
And make ready quickly and begin."
It was about midnight when the Frenchman hove in sight,
And could be seen distinctly in the starlight;
And for an hour and a half they fired away
Broadsides into each other without dismay.
And with tne rapid flashes the Heavens were aflame,
As each volley from the roaring cannons came;
And the incessant roll of musketry was awful to hear,
As it broke over the silent sea and smote upon the ear.
The French vessel had nearly 400 men,
Her decks were literally crowded from stem to stern;
And the musketeers kept up a fierce fire on the " Blanche,"
But still the "Blanche" on them did advance.
And the "Blanche's" crew without dismay
Fired a broadside into the "Pique" without delay,
Which raked her fore and aft, and knocked her to smash,
And the mizzen mast fell overboard with a terrible crash.
Then the Frenohmen rushed forward to board the "Blanche,"
But in doing so they had a very poor chance,
For the British Tars in courage didn't lack,
Because thrice in succession on their own deck they were driven back.
Then "Brave, my lads!" Captain Faulkner loudly cries,
"Lash her bowsprit to our capstan, she's our prize";
And he seized some ropes to lash round his foe,
But a musket ball pierced his heart and laid him low.
Then a yell of rage burst from the noble crew,
And near to his fallen body they drew;
And tears for his loss fell fast on the deck,
Their grief was so great their tears they conldn 't check.
The crew was very sorry for their captain's downfall,
But the sight didn't their brave hearts appall;
Because they fastened the ropes to the "Pique" at the capstan,
And the "Pique" was dragged after the "Blanche," the sight was grand.
Yet the crew of the "Pique" maintained the fight,
Oh! most courageously they fought in the dead of night;
And for two hours they kept up firing without dismay,
But it was a sacrifice of human life, they had to give way.
And about five o'clock in the morning the French cried for quarter,
Because on board there had been a great slaughter;
Their Captain Consail was mortally wounded in the fight
Along with many officers and men; oh! it was a heartrending sight
To see the wounded and dead weltering in their gore
After the cannonading had ceased and the fighting was o'er.
825
An Hour is a Sea
Between a few, and me—
With them would Harbor be—
There are certain things - as, a spider, a ghost,
The income-tax, gout, an umbrella for three -
That I hate, but the thing that I hate the most
Is a thing they call the Sea.
Pour some salt water over the floor -
Ugly I'm sure you'll allow it to be:
Suppose it extended a mile or more,
THAT'S very like the Sea.
Beat a dog till it howls outright -
Cruel, but all very well for a spree:
Suppose that he did so day and night,
THAT would be like the Sea.
I had a vision of nursery-maids;
Tens of thousands passed by me -
All leading children with wooden spades,
And this was by the Sea.
Who invented those spades of wood?
Who was it cut them out of the tree?
None, I think, but an idiot could -
Or one that loved the Sea.
It is pleasant and dreamy, no doubt, to float
With 'thoughts as boundless, and souls as free':
But, suppose you are very unwell in the boat,
How do you like the Sea?
There is an insect that people avoid
(Whence is derived the verb 'to flee').
Where have you been by it most annoyed?
In lodgings by the Sea.
If you like your coffee with sand for dregs,
A decided hint of salt in your tea,
And a fishy taste in the very eggs -
By all means choose the Sea.
And if, with these dainties to drink and eat,
You prefer not a vestige of grass or tree,
And a chronic state of wet in your feet,
Then - I recommend the Sea.
For I have friends who dwell by the coast -
Pleasant friends they are to me!
It is when I am with them I wonder most
That anyone likes the Sea.
They take me a walk: though tired and stiff,
To climb the heights I madly agree;
And, after a tumble or so from the cliff,
They kindly suggest the Sea.
I try the rocks, and I think it cool
That they laugh with such an excess of glee,
As I heavily slip into every pool
That skirts the cold cold Sea.
By Sidney and Clifford Lanier.
O wish that's vainer than the plash
Of these wave-whimsies on the shore:
"Give us a pearl to fill the gash --
God, let our dead friend live once more!"
O wish that's stronger than the stroke
Of yelling wave and snapping levin;
"God, lift us o'er the Last Day's smoke,
All white, to Thee and her in Heaven!"
O wish that's swifter than the race
Of wave and wind in sea and sky;
Let's take the grave-cloth from her face
And fall in the grave, and kiss, and die!
Look!  High above a glittering calm
Of sea and sky and kingly sun,
She shines and smiles, and waves a palm --
And now we wish -- Thy will be done!
We walked beside the sea,
After a day which perished silently
Of its own glory---like the Princess weird
Who, combating the Genius, scorched and seared,
Uttered with burning breath, 'Ho! victory!'
And sank adown, an heap of ashes pale;
So runs the Arab tale.
The sky above us showed
An universal and unmoving cloud,
On which, the cliffs permitted us to see
Only the outline of their majesty,
As master-minds, when gazed at by the crowd!
And, shining with a gloom, the water grey
Swang in its moon-taught way.
Nor moon nor stars were out.
They did not dare to tread so soon about,
Though trembling, in the footsteps of the sun.
The light was neither night's nor day's, but one
Which, life-like, had a beauty in its doubt;
And Silence's impassioned breathings round
Seemed wandering into sound.
O solemn-beating heart
Of nature! I have knowledge that thou art
Bound unto man's by cords he cannot sever---
And, what time they are slackened by him ever,
So to attest his own supernal part,
Still runneth thy vibration fast and strong,
The slackened cord along.
For though we never spoke
Of the grey water anal the shaded rock,---
Dark wave and stone, unconsciously, were fused
Into the plaintive speaking that we used,
Of absent friends and memories unforsook;
And, had we seen each other's face, we had
Seen haply, each was sad.
(For one of his own pictures)
Her lute hangs shadowed in the apple-tree,
While flashing fingers weave the sweet-strung spell
Between its chords; and as the wild notes swell,
The sea-bird for those branches leaves the sea.
But to what sound her listening ear stoops she?
What netherworld gulf-whispers doth she hear,
In answering echoes from what planisphere,
Along the wind, along the estuary?
She sinks into her spell: and when full soon
Her lips move and she soars into her song,
What creatures of the midmost main shall throng
In furrowed self-clouds to the summoning rune,
Till he, the fated mariner, hears her cry,
And up her rock, bare breasted, comes to die?
695
As if the Sea should part
And show a further Sea—
And that—a further—and the Three
But a presumption be—
Of Periods of Seas—
Unvisited of Shores—
Themselves the Verge of Seas to be—
Eternity—is Those—
A pathetic tale of the sea I will unfold,
Enough to make one's blood run cold;
Concerning four fishermen cast adrift in a dory.
As I've been told I'll relate the story.
T'was on the 8th April on the afternoon of that day
That the village of Louisburg was thrown into a wild state or dismay,
And the villagers flew to the beach in a state of wild uproar
And in a dory they found four men were cast ashore.
Then the villagers, in surprise assembled about the dory,
And they found that the bottom of the boat was gory;
Then their hearts were seized with sudden dread,
when they discovered that two of the men were dead.
And the two survivors were exhausted from exposure, hunger, and cold,
Which used the spectators to shudder when them they did behold;
And with hunger the poor men couldn't stand on their feet,
They felt so weakly on their legs for want of meat.
They were carried to a boarding-house without delay,
But those that were looking on were stricken with dismay,
When the remains of James and Angus McDonald were found in the boat,
Likewise three pieces or flesh in a pool or blood afloat.
Angus McDonald's right arm was missing from the elbow,
and the throat was cut in a sickening manner which filled the villagers hearts with woe,
Especially when they saw two pieces of flesh had been cut from each thigh,
'Twas then the kind-hearted villagers did murmur and sigh.
Angus McDonald must have felt the pangs of hunger before he did try
to cut two pieces of fiesh from James McDonald's thigh,
But, Oh heaven! the pangs of hunger are very hard to thole,
And anything that's eatable is precious unto an hungry soul.
Alas it is most pitiful and horrible to think
That with hunger christians will each other's blood drink
And eat each other's flesh to save themselves from starvation;
But the pangs or hunger makes them mad, and drives them to desperation.
An old American soldier that had passed through the Civil War,
Declared the scene surpassed anything he's seen by far,
And at the sight, the crowd in horror turned away,
which no doubt they will remember for many a day.
Colin Chisholm, one of the survivors was looking very pale,
Stretched on a sofa at the boarding-house, making his wail:
Poor fellow! his feet was greatly swollen, and with a melancholy air,
He gave the following account of the distressing affair:
We belonged to the American fishing schooner named "Cicely",
And our captain was a brave man, called McKenzie;
And the vessel had fourteen hands altogether
And during the passage we had favourable weather.
'Twas on March the 17th we sailed from Gloucester on the Wednesday
And all our hearts felt buoyant and gay;
And we arrived on the Western banks on the succeeding Tuesday,
While the time unto us seemed to pass merrily away.
About eight O'clock in the morning, we left the vessel in a dory,
And I hope all kind christians will take heed to my story;
Well, while we were at our work, the sky began to frown,
And with a dense fog we were suddenly shut down
Then we hunted and shouted, and every nerve did strain,
Thinking to find our schooner but, alas! it was all in vain:
Because the thick fog hid the vessel from our view,
And to keep ourselves warm we closely to each other drew.
We had not one drop of water , nor provisions of any kind,
Which, alas soon began to tell on our mind;
Especially upon James McDonald who was very thinly clad,
And with the cold and hunger he felt almost mad.
And looking from the stern where he was lying,
he said Good bye, mates, Oh! I am dying!
Poor fellow we kept his body thinking the rest of us would be saved,
Then, with hunger, Angus McDonald began to cry and madly raved.
And he cried, Oh, God! send us some kind of meat,
Because I'm resolved to have something to eat;
Oh! do not let us starve on the briny flood
Or else I will drink of poor Jim's blood.
Then he suddenly seized his knife and cut off poor Jim's arm,
Not thinking in his madness he'd done any harm;
Then poor Jim's blood he did drink and his flesh did eat,
Declaring that the blood tasted like cream, and was a treat.
Then he asked me to taste it, saying It was good without doubt,
Then I tasted it, but in disgust I instantly spat it out;
Saying, if I was to die within an hour on the briny flood,
I would neither eat the flesh nor drink the blood.
Then in the afternoon again he turned to me,
Saying, I'm going to cut Jim's throat for more blood d'ye see;
Then I begged of him, for God's sake not to cut the throat of poor Jim,
But he cried, Ha! ha! to save my own life I consider it no sin.
I tried to prevent him but he struck me without dismay
And cut poor Jim's throat in defiance of me, or all I could say,
Also a piece of flesh from each thigh, and began to eat away,
But poor fellow he sickened about noon, and died on the Sunday.
Now it is all over and I will thank all my life,
Who has preserved me and my mate, McEachern, in the midst of danger and strife;
And I hope that all landsmen of low and high degree,
Will think of the hardships of poor mariners while at sea.
When the investing darkness growls,
And deep reverberates to deep;
When keyhole whines and chimney howls,
And all the roofs and windows weep;
Then, through the doorless walls of sleep,
The still-sealed ear and shuttered sight,
Phantoms of memory steal and creep,
The very ghosts of sound and light--
Dream-visions and dream-voices of a bygone night.
I see again, I hear again,
Where lightnings flash and house-eaves drip,
A flying swirl of waves and rain--
That storm-path between Sound and Rip.
I feel the swaying of the ship
In every gust that rocks the trees,
And taste that brine upon my lip
And smell the freshness of the breeze
That sped us through the welter of those racing seas.
I hear the menace of the call
To rope and rivet, wheel and mast,
In the swift onrush of the squall,
The challenge of the thundering blast
To daring men as it sweeps past;
And in my dream I have no dread.
Rivet and rope are firm and fast,
The clear lights shining, green and red,
The quiet eyes of sentry watching overhead.
What epic battles pass unsung!
It was a war of gods befell
On that wild night when we were young.
They rode, like cavalry of hell,
The mighty winds, the monstrous swell,
On their white horses, fierce and fleet;
They stood at bay, invincible,
Where pulsed beneath our sliding feet
The faithful iron heart that never lost a beat.
How the sharp sea-spume lashed and stung!
How the salt sea-wind tugged and tare
And clawed and mauled us where we clung,
With panting breasts and streaming hair,
To our frail eyrie in mid-air!
How we exulted in the fight--
With neither haste nor halt to dare
Those Titans furies in their might,
Undaunted and unswerving in our insect flight!
No lap of exquisite repose!
A mortar wherein souls are brayed;
An anvil ringing to the blows
Whereby true men are shaped, and made
Divinely strong and unafraid.
Such gallant sailor-men there be--
Never unready or dismayed,
Though 't's the face of death they see
In cyclone, fire and fog, and white surf on the lee.
Not only in the sylvan bower,
On dreaming hill, by sleeping mere,
The holy place--the sacred hour.
Beset by every form of fear,
Darkness ahead and danger near,
Sorely hard-driven and hard-prest,
But still unspent and of good cheer--
He finds them who can pass the test,
Who never winks an eye and never stays to rest
As night hath stars, more rare than ships
In ocean, faint from pole to pole,
So all the wonder of her lips
Hints her innavigable soul.
Such lights she gives as guide my barque;
But I am swallowed in the swell
Of her heart's ocean, sagely dark,
That holds my heaven and holds my hell.
In her I live, a mote minute
Dancing a moment in the sun:
In her I die, a sterile shoot
Of nightshade in oblivion.
In her my elf dissolves, a grain
Of salt cast careless in the sea;
My passion purifies my pain
To peace past personality.
Love of my life, God grant the years
Confirm the chrism - rose to rood!
Anointing loves, asperging tears
In sanctifying solitude!
Man is so infinitely small
In all these stars, determinate.
Maker and moulder of them all,
Man is so infinitely great!
'Farewell and adieu' was the burden prevailing
Long since in the chant of a home-faring crew;
And the heart in us echoes, with laughing or wailing,
Farewell and adieu.
Each year that we live shall we sing it anew,
With a water untravelled before us for sailing
And a water behind us that wrecks may bestrew.
The stars of the past and the beacons are paling,
The heavens and the waters are hoarier of hue:
But the heart in us chants not an all unavailing
Farewell and adieu.
When I was down beside the sea
A wooden spade they gave to me
To dig the sandy shore.
My holes were empty like a cup.
In every hole the sea came up,
Till it could come no more.
Beyond the sea, beyond the sea,
My heart is gone, far, far from me;
And ever on its track will flee
My thoughts, my dreams, beyond the sea.
Beyond the sea, beyond the sea,
The swallow wanders fast and free:
Oh, happy bird! were I like thee,
I, too, would fly beyond the sea.
Beyond the sea, beyond the sea,
Are kindly hearts and social glee:
But here for me they may not be;
My heart is gone beyond the sea.
Why does the sea moan evermore?
Shut out from heaven it makes its moan,
It frets against the boundary shore;
All earth's full rivers cannot fill
The sea, that drinking thirsteth still.
Sheer miracles of loveliness
Lie hid in its unlooked-on bed:
Anemones, salt, passionless,
Blow flower-like; just enough alive
To blow and multiply and thrive.
Shells quaint with curve, or spot, or spike,
Encrusted live things argus-eyed,
All fair alike, yet all unlike,
Are born without a pang, and die
Without a pang, and so pass by.
I started early, took my dog,
And visited the sea;
The mermaids in the basement
Came out to look at me.
And frigates in the upper floor
Extended hempen hands,
Presuming me to be a mouse
Aground, upon the sands.
But no man moved me till the tide
Went past my simple shoe,
And past my apron and my belt,
And past my bodice too,
And made as he would eat me up
As wholly as a dew
Upon a dandelion's sleeve -
And then I started too.
And he - he followed close behind;
I felt his silver heel
Upon my ankle, - then my shoes
Would overflow with pearl.
Until we met the solid town,
No man he seemed to know;
And bowing with a mighty look
At me, the sea withdrew.
Beside an ebbing northern sea
While stars awaken one by one,
We walk together, I and he.
He woos me with an easy grace
That proves him only half sincere;
A light smile flickers on his face.
To him love-making is an art,
And as a flutist plays a flute,
So does he play upon his heart
A music varied to his whim.
He has no use for love of mine,
He would not have me answer him.
To hide my eyes within the night
I watch the changeful lighthouse gleam
Alternately with red and white.
My laughter smites upon my ears,
So one who cries and wakes from sleep
Knows not it is himself he hears.
What if my voice should let him know
The mocking words were all a sham,
And lips that laugh could tremble so?
What if I lost the power to lie,
And he should only hear his name
In one low, broken cry?
SILENCE deep rules o'er the waters,
Calmly slumb'ring lies the main,
While the sailor views with trouble
Nought but one vast level plain.
Not a zephyr is in motion!
Silence fearful as the grave!
In the mighty waste of ocean
Sunk to rest is ev'ry wave.
My father and mother, two tiny figures,
side by side, facing the clouds that move
in from the Atlantic. August, '33.
The whole weight of the rain to come, the weight
of all that has fallen on their houses
gathers for a last onslaught, and yet they
hold, side by side, in the eye of memory.
What was she wearing, you ask, what did he
say to make the riding clouds hold their breath?
Our late August afternoons were chilly
in America, so I shall drape her throat
in a silken scarf above a black dress.
I could give her a rope of genuine pearls
as a gift for bearing my father's sons,
and let each pearl glow with a child's fire.
I could turn her toward you now with a smile
so that we might joy in her constancy,
I could bury the past in dust rising,
dense rain falling, and the absence of sky
so that you could turn this page and smile.
My father and mother, two tiny figures,
side by side, facing the clouds that move
in from the Atlantic. They are silent
under the whole weight of the rain to come.
Come o'er the sea,
Maiden with me,
Mine through sunshine, storm, and snows;
Seasons may roll,
But the true soul
Burns the same, where'er it goes.
Let fate frown on, so we love and part not;
'Tis life where thou art, 'tis death were thou are not.
Then come o'er the sea,
Maiden with me,
Come wherever the wild wind blows;
Seasons may roll,
But the true soul
Burns the same, where'er it goes.
Was not the sea
Made for the Free,
Land for courts and chains alone?
Here we are slaves,
But, on the waves,
Love and Liberty's all our own.
No eye to watch, and no tongue to wound us
All earth forgot, and all heaven around us --
Then come o'er the sea,
Maiden, with me,
Mine through sunshine, storms, and snows
Seasons may roll,
But the true soul
Burns the same, where'er it goes.
O HAPPY dames! that may embrace
The fruit of your delight,
Help to bewail the woful case
And eke the heavy plight
Of me, that wonted to rejoice
The fortune of my pleasant choice:
Good ladies, help to fill my mourning voice.
In ship, freight with rememberance
Of thoughts and pleasures past,
He sails that hath in governance
My life while it will last:
With scalding sighs, for lack of gale,
Furthering his hope, that is his sail,
Toward me, the swete port of his avail.
Alas! how oft in dreams I see
Those eyes that were my food;
Which sometime so delighted me,
That yet they do me good:
Wherewith I wake with his return
Whose absent flame did make me burn:
But when I find the lack, Lord! how I mourn!
When other lovers in arms across
Rejoice their chief delight,
Drowned in tears, to mourn my loss
I stand the bitter night
In my window where I may see
Before the winds how the clouds flee:
Lo! what a mariner love hath made me!
And in green waves when the salt flood
Doth rise by rage of wind,
A thousand fancies in that mood
Assail my restless mind.
Alas! now drencheth my sweet foe,
That with the spoil of my heart did go,
And left me; but alas! why did he so?
And when the seas wax calm again
To chase fro me annoy,
My doubtful hope doth cause me plain;
So dread cuts off my joy.
Thus is my wealth mingled with woe
And of each thought a doubt doth grow;
--Now he comes! Will he come? Alas! no, no.
A man came slowly from the setting sun,
To Emer, raddling raiment in her dun,
And said, "I am that swineherd whom you bid
Go watch the road between the wood and tide,
But now I have no need to watch it more."
Then Emer cast the web upon the floor,
And raising arms all raddled with the dye,
Parted her lips with a loud sudden cry.
That swineherd stared upon her face and said,
"No man alive, no man among the dead,
Has won the gold his cars of battle bring."
"But if your master comes home triumphing
Why must you blench and shake from foot to crown?"
Thereon he shook the more and cast him down
Upon the web-heaped floor, and cried his word:
"With him is one sweet-throated like a bird."
"You dare me to my face," and thereupon
She smote with raddled fist, and where her son
Herded the cattle came with stumbling feet,
And cried with angry voice, "It is not meet
To idle life away, a common herd."
"I have long waited, mother, for that word:
But wherefore now?"
"There is a man to die;
You have the heaviest arm under the sky."
"Whether under its daylight or its stars
My father stands amid his battle-cars."
"But you have grown to be the taller man."
"Yet somewhere under starlight or the sun
My father stands."
"Aged, worn out with wars
On foot. on horseback or in battle-cars."
"I only ask what way my journey lies,
For He who made you bitter made you wise."
"The Red Branch camp in a great company
Between wood's rim and the horses of the sea.
Go there, and light a camp-fire at wood's rim;
But tell your name and lineage to him
Whose blade compels, and wait till they have found
Some feasting man that the same oath has bound."
Among those feasting men Cuchulain dwelt,
And his young sweetheart close beside him knelt,
Stared on the mournful wonder of his eyes,
Even as Spring upon the ancient skies,
And pondered on the glory of his days;
And all around the harp-string told his praise,
And Conchubar, the Red Branch king of kings,
With his own fingers touched the brazen strings.
At last Cuchulain spake, "Some man has made
His evening fire amid the leafy shade.
I have often heard him singing to and fro,
I have often heard the sweet sound of his bow.
Seek out what man he is."
One went and came.
"He bade me let all know he gives his name
At the sword-point, and waits till we have found
Some feasting man that the same oath has bound."
Cuchulain cried, "I am the only man
Of all this host so bound from childhood on!"
After short fighting in the leafy shade,
He spake to the young man, 'Is there no maid
Who loves you, no white arms to wrap you round,
Or do you long for the dim sleepy ground,
That you have come and dared me to my face?"
"The dooms of men are in God's hidden place,"
"Your head a while seemed like a woman's head
That I loved once."
Again the fighting sped,
But now the war-rage in Cuchulain woke,
And through that new blade's guard the old blade broke,
And pierced him.
"Speak before your breath is done."
"Cuchulain I, mighty Cuchulain's son."
"I put you from your pain. I can no more."
While day its burden on to evening bore,
With head bowed on his knees Cuchulain stayed;
Then Conchubar sent that sweet-throated maid,
And she, to win him, his grey hair caressed;
In vain her arms, in vain her soft white breast.
Then Conchubar, the subtlest of all men,
Ranking his Druids round him ten by ten,
Spake thus: "Cuchulain will dwell there and brood
For three days more in dreadful quietude,
And then arise, and raving slay us all.
Chaunt in his ear delusions magical,
That he may fight the horses of the sea."
The Druids took them to their mystery,
And chaunted for three days.
Cuchulain stirred,
Stared on the horses of the sea, and heard
The cars of battle and his own name cried;
And fought with the invulnerable tide.
'Twas a fearful night -- the tempest raved
With loud and wrathful pride,
The storm-king harnessed his lightning steeds,
And rode on the raging tide.
The sea-king lay on his bed of death,
Pale mourners around him bent;
They knew the wild and fitful life
Of their chief was almost spent.
His ear was growing dull in death
When the angry storm he heard,
The sluggish blood in the old man's veins
With sudden vigor stirred.
"I hear them call," cried the dying man,
His eyes grew full of light;
"Now bring me here my warrior robes,
My sword and armor bright.
"In the tempest's lull I heard a voice,
I knew 'twas Odin's call.
The Valkyrs are gathering round my bed
To lead me unto his hall.
"Bear me unto my noblest ship,
Light up a funeral pyre;
I'll walk to the palace of the braves
Through a path of flame and fire."
Oh! wild and bright was the stormy light
That flashed from the old man's eye,
As they bore him from the couch of death
To his battle-ship to die,
And lit with many a mournful torch
The sea-king's dying bed,
And like a banner fair and bright
The flames around him spread.
But they heard no cry of anguish
Break through that fiery wall,
With rigid brow and silent lips
He was seeking Odin's hall.
Through a path of fearful splendor,
While strong men held their breath,
The brave old man went boldly forth
And calmly talked with death.
The pulsing sound
of moving sea;
The ocean surf-
tranquility!
An ocean breeze-
With sunset's glaze;
Seaoats in view-
and ocean waves!
An endless flow-
of sand and shells;
Ebbed back and forth-
by ocean swells!
The flight of gulls-
along the shore;
A fleeing sand crab-
in sand to bore!
The seashore is special-
a great place to be;
God's love abounds-
down by the sea!
Science, that simple saint, cannot be bothered
Figuring what anything is for:
Enough for her devotions that things are
And can be contemplated soon as gathered.
She knows how every living thing was fathered,
She calculates the climate of each star,
She counts the fish at sea, but cannot care
Why any one of them exists, fish, fire or feathered.
Why should she? Her religion is to tell
By rote her rosary of perfect answers.
Metaphysics she can leave to man:
She never wakes at night in heaven or hell
Staring at darkness. In her holy cell
There is no darkness ever: the pure candle
Burns, the beads drop briskly from her hand.
Who dares to offer Her the curled sea shell!
She will not touch it!--knows the world she sees
Is all the world there is! Her faith is perfect!
And still he offers the sea shell . . .
What surf
Of what far sea upon what unknown ground
Troubles forever with that asking sound?
What surge is this whose question never ceases?
FAIR Isle at Sea - thy lovely name
Soft in my ear like music came.
That sea I loved, and once or twice
I touched at isles of Paradise.
(After Valery)
This hushed surface where the doves parade
Amid the pines vibrates, amid the graves;
Here the noon's justice unites all fires when
The sea aspires forever to begin again and again.
O what a gratification comes after long meditation
O satisfaction, after long meditation or ratiocination
Upon the calm of the gods
Upon the divine serenity, in luxurious contemplation!
What pure toil of perfect lightning enwombs, consumes,
Each various manifold jewel of imperceptible foam,
And how profound a peace appears to be begotten and
begun
When upon the abyss the sunlight seems to pause,
The pure effects of an eternal cause:
Time itself sparkles, to dream and to know are one....
All beauty calls you to me, and you seem,
Past twice a thousand miles of shifting sea,
To reach me. You are as the wind I breathe
Here on the ship's sun-smitten topmost deck,
With only light between the heavens and me.
I feel your spirit and I close my eyes,
Knowing the bright hair blowing in the sun,
The eager whisper and the searching eyes.
Listen, I love you. Do not turn your face
Nor touch me. Only stand and watch awhile
The blue unbroken circle of the sea.
Look far away and let me ease my heart
Of words that beat in it with broken wing.
Look far away, and if I say too much,
Forget that I am speaking. Only watch,
How like a gull that sparkling sinks to rest,
The foam-crest drifts along a happy wave
Toward the bright verge, the boundary of the world.
I am so weak a thing, praise me for this,
That in some strange way I was strong enough
To keep my love unuttered and to stand
Altho' I longed to kneel to you that night
You looked at me with ever-calling eyes.
Was I not calm? And if you guessed my love
You thought it something delicate and free,
Soft as the sound of fir-trees in the wind,
Fleeting as phosphorescent stars in foam.
Yet in my heart there was a beating storm
Bending my thoughts before it, and I strove
To say too little lest I say too much,
And from my eyes to drive love's happy shame.
Yet when I heard your name the first far time
It seemed like other names to me, and I
Was all unconscious, as a dreaming river
That nears at last its long predestined sea;
And when you spoke to me, I did not know
That to my life's high altar came its priest.
But now I know between my God and me
You stand forever, nearer God than I,
And in your hands with faith and utter joy
I would that I could lay my woman's soul.
Oh, my love
To whom I cannot come with any gift
Of body or of soul, I pass and go.
But sometimes when you hear blown back to you
My wistful, far-off singing touched with tears,
Know that I sang for you alone to hear,
And that I wondered if the wind would bring
To him who tuned my heart its distant song.
So might a woman who in loneliness
Had borne a child, dreaming of days to come,
Wonder if it would please its father's eyes.
But long before I ever heard your name,
Always the undertone's unchanging note
In all my singing had prefigured you,
Foretold you as a spark foretells a flame.
Yet I was free as an untethered cloud
In the great space between the sky and sea,
And might have blown before the wind of joy
Like a bright banner woven by the sun.
I did not know the longing in the night--
You who have waked me cannot give me sleep.
All things in all the world can rest, but I,
Even the smooth brief respite of a wave
When it gives up its broken crown of foam,
Even that little rest I may not have.
And yet all quiet loves of friends, all joy
In all the piercing beauty of the world
I would give up--go blind forevermore,
Rather than have God blot from out my soul
Remembrance of your voice that said my name.
For us no starlight stilled the April fields,
No birds awoke in darkling trees for us,
Yet where we walked the city's street that night
Felt in our feet the singing fire of spring,
And in our path we left a trail of light
Soft as the phosphorescence of the sea
When night submerges in the vessel's wake
A heaven of unborn evanescent stars.
Nobly, nobly Cape Saint Vincent to the North-west died away;
Sunset ran, one glorious blood-red, reeking into Cadiz Bay;
Bluish 'mid the burning water, full in face Trafalgar lay;
In the dimmest North-east distance dawned Gibraltar grand and grey;
"Here and here did England help me: how can I help England?" -say,
Whoso turns as I, this evening, turn to God to praise and pray,
While Jove's planet rises yonder, silent over Africa.
How tuneful is the voice of sea,
What true accord in ocean's murmur,
And in the reed's light, rhythmic tremour
What tender musicality!
In nature all is harmony,
A consonance fore'er agreed on,
And 'tis alone our phantom freedom
That is disturbingly off-key.
Whence comes this breach? How to explain
Why with the sea its song sonorous
The soul declines to sing in chorus?
Why does the thinking reed complain?
I have loved hours at sea, gray cities,
The fragile secret of a flower,
Music, the making of a poem
That gave me heaven for an hour;
First stars above a snowy hill,
Voices of people kindly and wise,
And the great look of love, long hidden,
Found at last in meeting eyes.
I have loved much and been loved deeply --
Oh when my spirit's fire burns low,
Leave me the darkness and the stillness,
I shall be tired and glad to go.
IN cabin'd ships, at sea,
The boundless blue on every side expanding,
With whistling winds and music of the waves--the large imperious
waves--In such,
Or some lone bark, buoy'd on the dense marine,
Where, joyous, full of faith, spreading white sails,
She cleaves the ether, mid the sparkle and the foam of day, or under
many a star at night,
By sailors young and old, haply will I, a reminiscence of the land,
be read,
In full rapport at last.
Here are our thoughts--voyagers' thoughts,
Here not the land, firm land, alone appears, may then by them be
said;                                                        10
The sky o'erarches here--we feel the undulating deck beneath our
feet,
We feel the long pulsation--ebb and flow of endless motion;
The tones of unseen mystery--the vague and vast suggestions of the
briny world--the liquid-flowing syllables,
The perfume, the faint creaking of the cordage, the melancholy
rhythm,
The boundless vista, and the horizon far and dim, are all here,
And this is Ocean's poem.
Then falter not, O book! fulfil your destiny!
You, not a reminiscence of the land alone,
You too, as a lone bark, cleaving the ether--purpos'd I know
not whither--yet ever full of faith,                              20
Consort to every ship that sails--sail you!
Bear forth to them, folded, my love--(Dear mariners! for you I fold
it here, in every leaf;)
Speed on, my Book! spread your white sails, my little bark, athwart
the imperious waves!
Chant on--sail on--bear o'er the boundless blue, from me, to every
shore,
This song for mariners and all their ships.
In the sea caves
there's a thirst there's a love
there's an ecstasy
all hard like shells
you can hold them in your palm.
In the sea caves
for whole days I gazed into your eyes
and I didn't know you nor did you know me.
Untitled poem drawn from the Book of Exercises. All translations by Edmund Keeley and Philip Sherrard
SWIFT o'er the bounding deep the VESSEL glides,
Its streamers flutt'ring in the summer gales,
The lofty mast the breezy air derides,
As gaily o'er the glitt'ring surf she sails.
Now beats each gallant heart with innate joys,
Bright hopes and tender fears alternate vie,
Dear schemes of pure delight the mind employs,
And the soul glistens in the tearful eye.
The fond expecting Maid delighted stands
On the bleak summit of yon chalky bourn,
With waving handkerchief and lifted hands
She hails her darling Sailor's safe return.
Ill-fated Maid, ne'er shall thy gentle breast
The chaste reward of constant passion prove,
Ne'er shall that timid form again be press'd
In the dear bondage of unsullied love:
Stern Heaven forbids­the dark o'erwhelming deep
Mocks the poor pilot's skill, and braves his sighs;
O'er the high deck the frothy billows sweep,
And the fierce tempest drowns the sea boy's cries.
The madd'ning ocean swells with furious roar,
See the devoted bark, the shatter'd mast,
The splitting hulk dash'd on the rocky shore,
Rolls 'midst the howlings of the direful blast.
O'er the vex'd deep the vivid sulphur flies,
The jarring elements their clamours blend,
The deaf'ning thunder roars along the skies,
And whistling winds from lurid clouds descend.
The lab'ring wreck, contending with the wave,
Mounts to the blast, or plunges in the main,
The trembling wretch suspended o'er his grave,
Clings to the tatter'd shrouds, the pouring rain
Chills his sad breast, methinks I see him weep,
I hear his fearful groan his mutter'd pray'r,
O, cease to mourn, behold the yawning deep
Where soon thy weary soul shall mock Despair,
Yes, soon thy aching heart shall rest in peace,
For in the arms of Death all human sorrows cease.
Fair is the castle up on the hill--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
The night is fair, and the waves are still,
And the wind is singing to you and to me
In this lowly home beside the sea--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
On yonder hill is store of wealth--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
And revellers drink to a little one's health;
But you and I bide night and day
For the other love that has sailed away--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
See not, dear eyes, the forms that creep
Ghostlike, O my own!
Out of the mists of the murmuring deep;
Oh, see them not and make no cry
Till the angels of death have passed us by--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
Ah, little they reck of you and me--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
In our lonely home beside the sea;
They seek the castle up on the hill,
And there they will do their ghostly will--
Hushaby, O my own!
Here by the sea a mother croons
"Hushaby, sweet my own!"
In yonder castle a mother swoons
While the angels go down to the misty deep,
Bearing a little one fast asleep--
Hushaby, sweet my own!
Out of the delicate dream of the distance an emerald emerges
Veiled in the violet folds of the air of the sea;
Softly the dream grows awakening -- shimmering white of a city,
Splashes of crimson, the gay bougainvillea, the palms.
High in the infinite blue of its heaven a quiet cloud lingers,
Lost and forgotten of winds that have fallen asleep,
Fallen asleep to the tune of a Portuguese song in a garden.
You are the moon, dear love, and I the sea:
The tide of hope swells high within my breast,
And hides the rough dark rocks of life’s unrest
When your fond eyes smile near in perigee.
But when that loving face is turned from me,
Low falls the tide, and the grim rocks appear,
And earth’s dim coast-line seems a thing to fear.
You are the moon, dear one, and I the sea.
Let me stop here. Let me, too, look at nature awhile.
The brilliant blue of the morning sea, of the cloudless sky,
the yellow shore; all lovely,
all bathed in light.
Let me stand here. And let me pretend I see all this
(I really did see it for a minute when I first stopped)
and not my usual day-dreams here too,
my memories, those images of sensual pleasure.
Oh Sea, why do you deliberately pound the rocks along the bay,
Sending showers of white foam up, in a cascade of spray,
Can you not cease your travels, churning incessantly,
Surging back and forth, always longing to be free.
Oh Sea, why do you keep hold of such impatience, in your hands,
Forever turning restless, racing for the sands,
Then teetering up the shingle, and rushing back again,
Shifting shells and pebbles, and layers of sandy grain.
Oh Sea, why draw it all towards you, like some almighty tongue,
Devouring it in mouthfuls, then spewing it among
The coves, caves and crevices, which are found along the cliffs,
Dispersing all the creatures, living in the rifts.
Oh Sea, you are gigantic, so powerful and so wild,
And yet at times you're gentle, just like a little child,
You command our admiration, your vastness is immense,
But you are so unpredictable, your energy intense.
Oh Sea, you are the great expanse, of the oceans of the world,
We treat you with respect, when your anger is unfurled,
Your boundless depths are fathomless, holding secrets still,
Your waters are so mecurial, subject to your will.
Oh Sea, It is a pleasure when your tides flow, to and fro,
To sit and watch the sunsets, over waters all aglow,
To know your restless feelings, to accept your endless task,
And yet to try and understand, what you keep behind your mask
Oh Sea, who owns the tranquil blues and greens, and violets too,
That in your watery world to us, gives such a wondrous view,
We know your unleashed mighty force, the course you have to take,
The storms, the squalls, the hurricanes, these terrors make us quake.
Oh Sea, we know of other words like tranquil, calm and still,
Times when you are peaceful, with no need to thrill,
Contrasts are your constant plan, your order of the day,
And admiring you, we would not have you, any other way.
We passed each other, turned and stopped for half an hour, then went our way,
I who make other women smile did not make you--
But no man can move mountains in a day.
So this hard thing is yet to do.
But first I want your life:--before I die I want to see
The world that lies behind the strangeness of your eyes,
There is nothing gay or green there for my gathering, it may be,
Yet on brown fields there lies
A haunting purple bloom: is there not something in grey skies
And in grey sea?
I want what world there is behind your eyes,
I want your life and you will not give it me.
Now, if I look, I see you walking down the years,
Young, and through August fields--a face, a thought, a swinging dream
perched on a stile--;
I would have liked (so vile we are!) to have taught you tears
But most to have made you smile.
To-day is not enough or yesterday: God sees it all--
Your length on sunny lawns, the wakeful rainy nights--; tell me--;
(how vain to ask), but it is not a question--just a call--;
Show me then, only your notched inches climbing up the garden wall,
I like you best when you are small.
Is this a stupid thing to say
Not having spent with you one day?
No matter; I shall never touch your hair
Or hear the little tick behind your breast,
Still it is there,
And as a flying bird
Brushes the branches where it may not rest
I have brushed your hand and heard
The child in you: I like that best
So small, so dark, so sweet; and were you also then too grave and wise?
Always I think. Then put your far off little hand in mine;--
Oh! let it rest;
I will not stare into the early world beyond the opening eyes,
Or vex or scare what I love best.
But I want your life before mine bleeds away--
Here--not in heavenly hereafters--soon,--
I want your smile this very afternoon,
(The last of all my vices, pleasant people used to say,
I wanted and I sometimes got--the Moon!)
You know, at dusk, the last bird's cry,
And round the house the flap of the bat's low flight,
Trees that go black against the sky
And then--how soon the night!
No shadow of you on any bright road again,
And at the darkening end of this--what voice? whose kiss? As if you'd say!
It is not I who have walked with you, it will not be I who take away
Peace, peace, my little handful of the gleaner's grain
From your reaped fields at the shut of day.
Peace! Would you not rather die
Reeling,--with all the cannons at your ear?
So, at least, would I,
And I may not be here
To-night, to-morrow morning or next year.
Still I will let you keep your life a little while,
See dear?
I have made you smile.
It keeps eternal whisperings around
Desolate shores, and with its mighty swell
Gluts twice ten thousand Caverns, till the spell
Of Hecate leaves them their old shadowy sound.
Often 'tis in such gentle temper found,
That scarcely will the very smallest shell
Be moved for days from where it sometime fell.
When last the winds of Heaven were unbound.
Oh, ye! who have your eyeballs vexed and tired,
Feast them upon the wideness of the Sea;
Oh ye! whose ears are dinned with uproar rude,
Or fed too much with cloying melody---
Sit ye near some old Cavern's Mouth and brood,
Until ye start, as if the sea nymphs quired!
OR, from that Sea of Time,
Spray, blown by the wind--a double winrow-drift of weeds and shells;
(O little shells, so curious-convolute! so limpid-cold and voiceless!
Yet will you not, to the tympans of temples held,
Murmurs and echoes still bring up--Eternity's music, faint and far,
Wafted inland, sent from Atlantica's rim--strains for the Soul of the
Prairies,
Whisper'd reverberations--chords for the ear of the West, joyously
sounding
Your tidings old, yet ever new and untranslatable;)
Infinitessimals out of my life, and many a life,
(For not my life and years alone I give--all, all I give;)         10
These thoughts and Songs--waifs from the deep--here, cast high and
dry,
Wash'd on America's shores.
Currents of starting a Continent new,
Overtures sent to the solid out of the liquid,
Fusion of ocean and land--tender and pensive waves,
(Not safe and peaceful only--waves rous'd and ominous too.
Out of the depths, the storm's abysms--Who knows whence? Death's
waves,
Raging over the vast, with many a broken spar and tatter'd sail.)
Over the sea our galleys went,
With cleaving prows in order brave,
To a speeding wind and a bounding wave,
A gallant armament:
Each bark built out of a forest-tree,
Left leafy and rough as first it grew,
And nailed all over the gaping sides,
Within and without, with black bull-hides,
Seethed in fat and suppled in flame,
To bear the playful billows' game:
So, each good ship was rude to see,
Rude and bare to the outward view,
But each upbore a stately tent
Where cedar-pales in scented row
Kept out the flakes of the dancing brine,
And an awning drooped the mast below,
In fold on fold of the purple fine,
That neither noontide nor star-shine
Nor moonlight cold which maketh mad,
Might pierce the regal tenement.
When the sun dawned, oh, gay and glad
We set the sail and plied the oar;
But when the night-wind blew like breath,
For joy of one day's voyage more,
We sang together on the wide sea,
Like men at peace on a peaceful shore;
Each sail was loosed to the wind so free,
Each helm made sure by the twilight star,
And in a sleep as calm as death,
We, the voyagers from afar,
Lay stretched along, each weary crew
In a circle round its wondrous tent
Whence gleamed soft light and curled rich scent,
And with light and perfume, music too:
So the stars wheeled round, and the darkness past,
And at morn we started beside the mast,
And still each ship was sailing fast!
Now, one morn, land appeared! - a speck
Dim trembling betwixt sea and sky:
'Avoid it,' cried our pilot, 'check
The shout, restrain the eager eye! '
But the heaving sea was black behind
For many a night and many a day,
And land, though but a rock, drew nigh;
So, we broke the cedar pales away,
Let the purple awning flap in the wind,
And a statue bright was on every deck!
We shouted, every man of us,
And steered right into the harbour thus,
With pomp and paean glorious.
A hundred shapes of lucid stone!
All day we built its shrine for each,
A shrine of rock for every one,
Nor paused we till in the westering sun
We sat together on the beach
To sing because our task was done.
When lo! what shouts and merry songs!
What laughter all the distance stirs!
A loaded raft with happy throngs
Of gentle islanders!
'Our isles are just at hand,' they cried,
'Like cloudlets faint in even sleeping;
Our temple-gates are opened wide,
Our olive-groves thick shade are keeping
For these majestic forms'- they cried.
Oh, then we awoke with sudden start
From our deep dream, and knew, too late,
How bare the rock, how desolate,
Which had received our precious freight:
Yet we called out- 'Depart!
Our gifts, once given, must here abide.
Our work is done; we have no heart
To mar our work,'- we cried.
Under the light of the silver moon
We two sat, when our hearts were young;
The night was warm with the breath of June,
And loud from the meadow the cricket sung,
And darker and deeper, oh, love, than the sea,
Were your dear eyes, as they beamed to me.
The moon hung clear, and the night was still:
The waters reflected the glittering skies;
The nightingale sang on the distant hill;
But sweeter than all was the light in your eyes -
Your dear, dark eyes,  your eyes like the sea -
And up from the depths shone love for me.
My heart, like a river, was mad and wild -
And a river is not deep, like the sea;
But I said yout love was the love of a child,
Compared with the love that was felt by me;
A river leaps noisily, kissing the land,
But the sea is fathomless, deep and grand.
I vowed to love you, for ever and ever!
I called you cold, on that night in June,
But my fierce love, like a reckless river,
Dashed on, and away, and was spent too soon;
While yours - ah, yours was deep like the sea;
I cheated you, love, but you died for me!
You are the ocean, endless
I am but a tiny grain of sand
After being bathed countless times
By your great tides
Still wait for
Another countless baths.
Each tide
Like a dream
Attracts me to its heart
But, every time
I am thrown back
To the shore of day's reality.
My soul expands
To billions and billions sandgrains
Uniting with them
I become the sea-shore
Then I take your endlessness
In my embrace.
White caped waves
In the curl of the sea
Smell of the ocean air
On the white sandy beach.
Colors of the sky
Roaring of the sea
Walking in the wet sand
With my hair blowing in the breeze.
Rolling of the waves
splashing on the beach
Seagulls flying over
In the roaring sea.
Reflections from the sun
Casting colors upon the sea
splashing of the waves
that roll under my feet.
The flesh is sad, Alas! and I have read all the books.
Let’s go! Far off. Let’s go! I sense
that the birds, intoxicated, fly
deep into unknown spume and sky!
Nothing – not even old gardens mirrored by eyes –
can restrain this heart that drenches itself in the sea,
O nights, or the abandoned light of my lamp,
on the void of paper, that whiteness defends,
no, not even the young woman feeding her child.
I will go! Steamer, straining at your ropes
lift your anchor towards an exotic rawness!
A Boredom, made desolate by cruel hope
still believes in the last goodbye of handkerchiefs!
And perhaps the masts, inviting lightning,
are those the gale bends over shipwrecks,
lost, without masts, without masts, no fertile islands...
But, oh my heart, listen to the sailors’ chant!
How still,
How strangely still
The water is today,
It is not good
For water
To be so still that way.
A city clerk, but gently born and bred;
His wife, an unknown artist's orphan child-
One babe was theirs, a Margaret, three years old:
They, thinking that her clear germander eye
Droopt in the giant-factoried city-gloom,
Came, with a month's leave given them, to the sea:
For which his gains were dock'd, however small:
Small were his gains, and hard his work; besides,
Their slender household fortunes (for the man
Had risk'd his little)  like the little thrift,
Trembled in perilous places o'er a deep:
And oft, when sitting all alone, his face
Would darken, as he cursed his credulousness,
And that one unctuous mount which lured him, rogue,
To buy strange shares in some Peruvian mine.
Now seaward-bound for health they gain'd a coast,
All sand and cliff and deep-inrunning cave,
At close of day; slept, woke, and went the next,
The Sabbath, pious variers from the church,
To chapel; where a heated pulpiteer,
Not preaching simple Christ to simple men,
Announced the coming doom, and fulminated
Against the scarlet woman and her creed:
For sideways up he swung his arms, and shriek'd
`Thus, thus with violence,' ev'n as if he held
The Apocalyptic millstone, and himself
Were that great Angel; `Thus with violence
Shall Babylon be cast into the sea;
Then comes the close.'  The gentle-hearted wife
Sat shuddering at the ruin of a world;
He at his own: but when the wordy storm
Had ended, forth they came and paced the shore,
Ran in and out the long sea-framing caves,
Drank the large air, and saw, but scarce believed
(The sootflake of so many a summer still
Clung to their fancies)  that they saw, the sea.
So now on sand they walk'd, and now on cliff,
Lingering about the thymy promontories,
Till all the sails were darken'd in the west,
And rosed in the east: then homeward and to bed:
Where she, who kept a tender Christian hope
Haunting a holy text, and still to that
Returning, as the bird returns, at night,
`Let not the sun go down upon your wrath,'
Said, `Love, forgive him:' but he did not speak;
And silenced by that silence lay the wife,
Remembering her dear Lord who died for all,
And musing on the little lives of men,
And how they mar this little by their feuds.
But while the two were sleeping, a full tide
Rose with ground-swell, which, on the foremost rocks
Touching, upjetted in spirts of wild sea-smoke,
And scaled in sheets of wasteful foam, and fell
In vast sea-cataracts- ever and anon
Dead claps of thunder from within the cliffs
Heard thro' the living roar.  At this the babe,
Their Margaret cradled near them, wail'd and woke
The mother, and the father suddenly cried,
`A wreck, a wreck! ' then turn'd, and groaning said,
`Forgive!  How many will say, 'forgive,' and find
A sort of absolution in the sound
To hate a little longer!  No; the sin
That neither God nor man can well forgive,
Hypocrisy, I saw it in him at once.
Is it so true that second thoughts are best?
Not first, and third, which are a riper first?
Too ripe, too late! they come too late for use.
Ah love, there surely lives in man and beast
Something divine to warn them of their foes:
And such a sense, when first I fronted him,
Said, 'trust him not; ' but after, when I came
To know him more, I lost it, knew him less;
Fought with what seem'd my own uncharity;
Sat at his table; drank his costly wines;
Made more and more allowance for his talk;
Went further, fool! and trusted him with all,
All my poor scrapings from a dozen years
Of dust and deskwork: there is no such mine,
None; but a gulf of ruin, swallowing gold,
Not making.  Ruin'd! ruin'd! the sea roars
Ruin: a fearful night! '
`Not fearful; fair,'
Said the good wife, `if every star in heaven
Can make it fair: you do but bear the tide.
Had you ill dreams? '
`O yes,' he said, `I dream'd
Of such a tide swelling toward the land,
And I from out the boundless outer deep
Swept with it to the shore, and enter'd one
Of those dark caves that run beneath the cliffs.
I thought the motion of the boundless deep
Bore through the cave, and I was heaved upon it
In darkness: then I saw one lovely star
Larger and larger.  'What a world,' I thought,
'To live in! ' but in moving I found
Only the landward exit of the cave,
Bright with the sun upon the stream beyond:
And near the light a giant woman sat,
All over earthy, like a piece of earth,
A pickaxe in her hand: then out I slipt
Into a land all of sun and blossom, trees
As high as heaven, and every bird that sings:
And here the night-light flickering in my eyes
Awoke me.'
`That was then your dream,' she said,
`Not sad, but sweet.'
`So sweet, I lay,' said he,
`And mused upon it, drifting up the stream
In fancy, till I slept again, and pieced
The broken vision; for I dream'd that still
The motion of the great deep bore me on,
And that the woman walk'd upon the brink:
I wonder'd at her strength, and ask'd her of it:
'It came,' she said, 'by working in the mines:'
O then to ask her of my shares, I thought;
And ask'd; but not a word; she shook her head.
And then the motion of the current ceased,
And there was rolling thunder; and we reach'd
A mountain, like a wall of burs and thorns;
But she with her strong feet up the steep hill
Trod out a path: I follow'd; and at top
She pointed seaward: there a fleet of glass,
That seem'd a fleet of jewels under me,
Sailing along before a gloomy cloud
That not one moment ceased to thunder, past
In sunshine: right across its track there lay,
Down in the water, a long reef of gold,
Or what seem'd gold: and I was glad at first
To think that in our often-ransack'd world
Still so much gold was left; and then I fear'd
Lest the gay navy there should splinter on it,
And fearing waved my arm to warn them off;
An idle signal, for the brittle fleet
(I thought I could have died to save it)  near'd,
Touch'd, clink'd, and clash'd, and vanish'd, and I woke,
I heard the clash so clearly.  Now I see
My dream was Life; the woman honest Work;
And my poor venture but a fleet of glass
Wreck'd on a reef of visionary gold.'
`Nay,' said the kindly wife to comfort him,
`You raised your arm, you tumbled down and broke
The glass with little Margaret's medicine it it;
And, breaking that, you made and broke your dream:
A trifle makes a dream, a trifle breaks.'
`No trifle,' groan'd the husband; `yesterday
I met him suddenly in the street, and ask'd
That which I ask'd the woman in my dream.
Like her, he shook his head.  'Show me the books! '
He dodged me with a long and loose account.
'The books, the books! ' but he, he could not wait,
Bound on a matter he of life and death:
When the great Books (see Daniel seven and ten)
Were open'd, I should find he meant me well;
And then began to bloat himself, and ooze
All over with the fat affectionate smile
That makes the widow lean.  'My dearest friend,
Have faith, have faith!  We live by faith,' said he;
'And all things work together for the good
Of those'- it makes me sick to quote him- last
Gript my hand hard, and with God-bless-you went.
I stood like one that had received a blow:
I found a hard friend in his loose accounts,
A loose one in the hard grip of his hand,
A curse in his God-bless-you: then my eyes
Pursued him down the street, and far away,
Among the honest shoulders of the crowd,
Read rascal in the motions of his back,
And scoundrel in the supple-sliding knee.'
`Was he so bound, poor soul? ' said the good wife;
`So are we all: but do not call him, love,
Before you prove him, rogue, and proved, forgive.
His gain is loss; for he that wrongs his friend
Wrongs himself more, and ever bears about
A silent court of justice in his breast,
Himself the judge and jury, and himself
The prisoner at the bar, ever condemn'd:
And that drags down his life: then comes what comes
Hereafter: and he meant, he said he meant,
Perhaps he meant, or partly meant, you well.'
` 'With all his conscience and one eye askew'-
Love, let me quote these lines, that you may learn
A man is likewise counsel for himself,
Too often, in that silent court of yours-
'With all his conscience and one eye askew,
So false, he partly took himself for true;
Whose pious talk, when most his heart was dry,
Made wet the crafty crowsfoot round his eye;
Who, never naming God except for gain,
So never took that useful name in vain;
Made Him his catspaw and the Cross his tool,
And Christ the bait to trap his dupe and fool;
Nor deeds of gift, but gifts of grace he forged,
And snakelike slimed his victim ere he gorged;
And oft at Bible meetings, o'er the rest
Arising, did his holy oily best,
Dropping the too rough H in Hell and Heaven,
To spread the Word by which himself had thriven.'
How like you this old satire? '
`Nay,' she said
`I loathe it: he had never kindly heart,
Nor ever cared to better his own kind,
Who first wrote satire, with no pity in it.
But will you hear MY dream, for I had one
That altogether went to music?  Still
It awed me.'
Then she told it, having dream'd
Of that same coast.
- But round the North, a light,
A belt, it seem'd, of luminous vapor, lay,
And ever in it a low musical note
Swell'd up and died; and, as it swell'd, a ridge
Of breaker issued from the belt, and still
Grew with the growing note, and when the note
Had reach'd a thunderous fullness, on those cliffs
Broke, mixt with awful light (the same as that
Living within the belt)  whereby she saw
That all those lines of cliffs were cliffs no more,
But huge cathedral fronts of every age,
Grave, florid, stern, as far as eye could see.
One after one: and then the great ridge drew,
Lessening to the lessening music, back,
And past into the belt and swell'd again
Slowly to music: ever when it broke
The statues, king or saint, or founder fell;
Then from the gaps and chasms of ruin left
Came men and women in dark clusters round,
Some crying, 'Set them up! they shall not fall! '
And others 'Let them lie, for they have fall'n.'
And still they strove and wrangled: and she grieved
In her strange dream, she knew not why, to find
Their wildest wailings never out of tune
With that sweet note; and ever as their shrieks
Ran highest up the gamut, that great wave
Returning, while none mark'd it, on the crowd
Broke, mixt with awful light, and show'd their eyes
Glaring, and passionate looks, and swept away
The men of flesh and blood, and men of stone,
To the waste deeps together.
`Then I fixt
My wistful eyes on two fair images,
Both crown'd with stars and high among the stars,-
The Virgin Mother standing with her child
High up on one of those dark minster-fronts-
Till she began to totter, and the child
Clung to the mother, and sent out a cry
Which mixt with little Margaret's, and I woke,
And my dream awed me:- well- but what are dreams?
Yours came but from the breaking of a glass,
And mine but from the crying of a child.'
`Child?  No! ' said he, `but this tide's roar, and his,
Our Boanerges with his threats of doom,
And loud-lung'd Antibabylonianisms
(Altho' I grant but little music there)
Went both to make your dream: but if there were
A music harmonizing our wild cries,
Sphere-music such as that you dream'd about,
Why, that would make our passions far too like
The discords dear to the musician.  No-
One shriek of hate would jar all the hymns of heaven:
True Devils with no ear, they howl in tune
With nothing but the Devil! '
`'True' indeed!
One of our town, but later by an hour
Here than ourselves, spoke with me on the shore;
While you were running down the sands, and made
The dimpled flounce of the sea-furbelow flap,
Good man, to please the child.  She brought strange news.
Why were you silent when I spoke to-night?
I had set my heart on your forgiving him
Before you knew.  We MUST forgive the dead.'
`Dead! who is dead? '
`The man your eye pursued.
A little after you had parted with him,
He suddenly dropt dead of heart-disease.'
`Dead? he? of heart-disease? what heart had he
To die of? dead! '
`Ah, dearest, if there be
A devil in man, there is an angel too,
And if he did that wrong you charge him with,
His angel broke his heart.  But your rough voice
(You spoke so loud)  has roused the child again.
Sleep, little birdie, sleep! will she not sleep
Without her 'little birdie? ' well then, sleep,
And I will sing you 'birdie.''
Saying this,
The woman half turn'd round from him she loved,
Left him one hand, and reaching thro' the night
Her other, found (for it was close beside)
And half embraced the basket cradle-head
With one soft arm, which, like the pliant bough
That moving moves the nest and nestling, sway'd
The cradle, while she sang this baby song.
What does the little birdie say
In her nest at peep of day?
Let me fly, says little birdie,
Mother, let me fly away.
Birdie, rest a little longer,
Till the little wings are stronger.
So she rests a little longer,
Then she flies away.
What does little baby say,
In her bed at peep of day?
Baby says, like little birdie,
Let me rise and fly away.
Baby, sleep a little longer,
Till the little limbs are stronger.
If she sleeps a little longer,
Baby too shall fly away.
`She sleeps: let us too, let all evil, sleep.
He also sleeps- another sleep than ours.
He can do no more wrong: forgive him, dear,
And I shall sleep the sounder! '
Then the man,
`His deeds yet live, the worst is yet to come.
Yet let your sleep for this one night be sound:
I do forgive him! '
`Thanks, my love,' she said,
`Your own will be the sweeter,' and they slept.
it was right after your sister's fiancée
died.  i drove to your house in
my dad's cadillac.
it was raining and by the time i got there,
i had the windshield wipers on full blast.
i parked up aways from your cul-de-sac in an
empty neighbor's drive.
my view was clear—i could see
straight into the window above your
washing machine
where you were standing
quietly folding laundry,
with that look on your face
that makes me break like
sea-glass.
you stood there
shirtless,
staring out into the black wet
night—as if you too
were crying from every pore
and your eyes fell upon a silver car
parked up aways in a
neighbor's drive;
and i could've sworn i saw
recognition in your eyes.
A thousand miles beyond this sun-steeped wall
Somewhere the waves creep cool along the sand,
The ebbing tide forsakes the listless land
With the old murmur, long and musical;
The windy waves mount up and curve and fall,
And round the rocks the foam blows up like snow,--
Tho' I am inland far, I hear and know,
For I was born the sea's eternal thrall.
I would that I were there and over me
The cold insistence of the tide would roll,
Quenching this burning thing men call the soul,--
Then with the ebbing I should drift and be
Less than the smallest shell along the shoal,
Less than the sea-gulls calling to the sea.
Tide be runnin' the great world over:
'Twas only last June month I mind that we
Was thinkin' the toss and the call in the breast of the lover
So everlastin' as the sea.
Heer's the same little fishes that sputter an swim,
Wi' the moon's old glim on the grey, wet sand;
An' him no more to me mor me to him
Than the wind goin' over my hand.
The old moon is tarnished
With smoke of the flood,
The dead leaves are varnished
With colour like blood.
A treacherous smiler
With teeth white as milk,
A savage beguiler
In sheathings of silk
The sea creeps to pillage,
She leaps on her prey;
A child of the village
Was murdered today.
She came up to meet him
In a smooth golden cloak,
She choked him and beat him
to death, for a joke.
Her bright locks were tangled,
She shouted for joy
With one hand she strangled
A strong little boy.
Now in silence she lingers
Beside him all night
To wash her long fingers
In silvery light.
Amber husk
fluted with gold,
fruit on the sand
marked with a rich grain,
treasure
spilled near the shrub-pines
to bleach on the boulders:
your stalk has caught root
among wet pebbles
and drift flung by the sea
and grated shells
and split conch-shells.
Beautiful, wide-spread,
fire upon leaf,
what meadow yields
so fragrant a leaf
as your bright leaf?
Rose, harsh rose,
marred and with stint of petals,
meagre flower, thin,
sparse of leaf,
more precious
than a wet rose
single on a stem --
you are caught in the drift.
Stunted, with small leaf,
you are flung on the sand,
you are lifted
in the crisp sand
that drives in the wind.
Can the spice-rose
drip such acrid fragrance
hardened in a leaf?
OUT of the cradle endlessly rocking,
Out of the mocking-bird's throat, the musical shuttle,
Out of the Ninth-month midnight,
Over the sterile sands, and the fields beyond, where the child,
leaving his bed, wander'd alone, bare-headed, barefoot,
Down from the shower'd halo,
Up from the mystic play of shadows, twining and twisting as if they
were alive,
Out from the patches of briers and blackberries,
From the memories of the bird that chanted to me,
From your memories, sad brother--from the fitful risings and fallings
I heard,
From under that yellow half-moon, late-risen, and swollen as if with
tears,                                                       10
From those beginning notes of sickness and love, there in the
transparent mist,
From the thousand responses of my heart, never to cease,
From the myriad thence-arous'd words,
From the word stronger and more delicious than any,
From such, as now they start, the scene revisiting,
As a flock, twittering, rising, or overhead passing,
Borne hither--ere all eludes me, hurriedly,
A man--yet by these tears a little boy again,
Throwing myself on the sand, confronting the waves,
I, chanter of pains and joys, uniter of here and hereafter,        20
Taking all hints to use them--but swiftly leaping beyond them,
A reminiscence sing.
Once, Paumanok,
When the snows had melted--when the lilac-scent was in the air, and
the Fifth-month grass was growing,
Up this sea-shore, in some briers,
Two guests from Alabama--two together,
And their nest, and four light-green eggs, spotted with brown,
And every day the he-bird, to and fro, near at hand,
And every day the she-bird, crouch'd on her nest, silent, with bright
eyes,
And every day I, a curious boy, never too close, never disturbing
them,                                                        30
Cautiously peering, absorbing, translating.
Shine! shine! shine!
Pour down your warmth, great Sun!
While we bask--we two together.
Two together!
Winds blow South, or winds blow North,
Day come white, or night come black,
Home, or rivers and mountains from home,
Singing all time, minding no time,
While we two keep together.                                        40
Till of a sudden,
May-be kill'd, unknown to her mate,
One forenoon the she-bird crouch'd not on the nest,
Nor return'd that afternoon, nor the next,
Nor ever appear'd again.
And thenceforward, all summer, in the sound of the sea,
And at night, under the full of the moon, in calmer weather,
Over the hoarse surging of the sea,
Or flitting from brier to brier by day,
I saw, I heard at intervals, the remaining one, the he-bird,       50
The solitary guest from Alabama.
Blow! blow! blow!
Blow up, sea-winds, along Paumanok's shore!
I wait and I wait, till you blow my mate to me.
Yes, when the stars glisten'd,
All night long, on the prong of a moss-scallop'd stake,
Down, almost amid the slapping waves,
Sat the lone singer, wonderful, causing tears.
He call'd on his mate;
He pour'd forth the meanings which I, of all men, know.            60
Yes, my brother, I know;
The rest might not--but I have treasur'd every note;
For once, and more than once, dimly, down to the beach gliding,
Silent, avoiding the moonbeams, blending myself with the shadows,
Recalling now the obscure shapes, the echoes, the sounds and sights
after their sorts,
The white arms out in the breakers tirelessly tossing,
I, with bare feet, a child, the wind wafting my hair,
Listen'd long and long.
Listen'd, to keep, to sing--now translating the notes,
Following you, my brother.                                         70
Soothe! soothe! soothe!
Close on its wave soothes the wave behind,
And again another behind, embracing and lapping, every one close,
But my love soothes not me, not me.
Low hangs the moon--it rose late;
O it is lagging--O I think it is heavy with love, with love.
O madly the sea pushes, pushes upon the land,
With love--with love.
O night! do I not see my love fluttering out there among the
breakers?
What is that little black thing I see there in the white?          80
Loud! loud! loud!
Loud I call to you, my love!
High and clear I shoot my voice over the waves;
Surely you must know who is here, is here;
You must know who I am, my love.
Low-hanging moon!
What is that dusky spot in your brown yellow?
O it is the shape, the shape of my mate!
O moon, do not keep her from me any longer.
Land! land! O land!                                                90
Whichever way I turn, O I think you could give me my mate back again,
if you only would;
For I am almost sure I see her dimly whichever way I look.
O rising stars!
Perhaps the one I want so much will rise, will rise with some of you.
O throat! O trembling throat!
Sound clearer through the atmosphere!
Pierce the woods, the earth;
Somewhere listening to catch you, must be the one I want.
Shake out, carols!
Solitary here--the night's carols!                                100
Carols of lonesome love! Death's carols!
Carols under that lagging, yellow, waning moon!
O, under that moon, where she droops almost down into the sea!
O reckless, despairing carols.
But soft! sink low;
Soft! let me just murmur;
And do you wait a moment, you husky-noised sea;
For somewhere I believe I heard my mate responding to me,
So faint--I must be still, be still to listen;
But not altogether still, for then she might not come immediately to
me.                                                         110
Hither, my love!
Here I am! Here!
With this just-sustain'd note I announce myself to you;
This gentle call is for you, my love, for you.
Do not be decoy'd elsewhere!
That is the whistle of the wind--it is not my voice;
That is the fluttering, the fluttering of the spray;
Those are the shadows of leaves.
O darkness! O in vain!
O I am very sick and sorrowful.                                   120
O brown halo in the sky, near the moon, drooping upon the sea!
O troubled reflection in the sea!
O throat! O throbbing heart!
O all--and I singing uselessly, uselessly all the night.
Yet I murmur, murmur on!
O murmurs--you yourselves make me continue to sing, I know not why.
O past! O life! O songs of joy!
In the air--in the woods--over fields;
Loved! loved! loved! loved! loved!
But my love no more, no more with me!                             130
We two together no more.
The aria sinking;
All else continuing--the stars shining,
The winds blowing--the notes of the bird continuous echoing,
With angry moans the fierce old mother incessantly moaning,
On the sands of Paumanok's shore, gray and rustling;
The yellow half-moon enlarged, sagging down, drooping, the face of
the sea almost touching;
The boy extatic--with his bare feet the waves, with his hair the
atmosphere dallying,
The love in the heart long pent, now loose, now at last tumultuously
bursting,
The aria's meaning, the ears, the Soul, swiftly depositing,       140
The strange tears down the cheeks coursing,
The colloquy there--the trio--each uttering,
The undertone--the savage old mother, incessantly crying,
To the boy's Soul's questions sullenly timing--some drown'd secret
hissing,
To the outsetting bard of love.
Demon or bird! (said the boy's soul,)
Is it indeed toward your mate you sing? or is it mostly to me?
For I, that was a child, my tongue's use sleeping,
Now I have heard you,
Now in a moment I know what I am for--I awake,                    150
And already a thousand singers--a thousand songs, clearer, louder and
more sorrowful than yours,
A thousand warbling echoes have started to life within me,
Never to die.
O you singer, solitary, singing by yourself--projecting me;
O solitary me, listening--nevermore shall I cease perpetuating you;
Never more shall I escape, never more the reverberations,
Never more the cries of unsatisfied love be absent from me,
Never again leave me to be the peaceful child I was before what
there, in the night,
By the sea, under the yellow and sagging moon,
The messenger there arous'd--the fire, the sweet hell within,     160
The unknown want, the destiny of me.
O give me the clew! (it lurks in the night here somewhere;)
O if I am to have so much, let me have more!
O a word! O what is my destination? (I fear it is henceforth chaos;)
O how joys, dreads, convolutions, human shapes, and all shapes,
spring as from graves around me!
O phantoms! you cover all the land and all the sea!
O I cannot see in the dimness whether you smile or frown upon me;
O vapor, a look, a word! O well-beloved!
O you dear women's and men's phantoms!
A word then, (for I will conquer it,)                             170
The word final, superior to all,
Subtle, sent up--what is it?--I listen;
Are you whispering it, and have been all the time, you sea-waves?
Is that it from your liquid rims and wet sands?
Whereto answering, the sea,
Delaying not, hurrying not,
Whisper'd me through the night, and very plainly before day-break,
Lisp'd to me the low and delicious word DEATH;
And again Death--ever Death, Death, Death,
Hissing melodious, neither like the bird, nor like my arous'd child's
heart,                                                      180
But edging near, as privately for me, rustling at my feet,
Creeping thence steadily up to my ears, and laving me softly all
over,
Death, Death, Death, Death, Death.
Which I do not forget,
But fuse the song of my dusky demon and brother,
That he sang to me in the moonlight on Paumanok's gray beach,
With the thousand responsive songs, at random,
My own songs, awaked from that hour;
And with them the key, the word up from the waves,
The word of the sweetest song, and all songs, 190
That strong and delicious word which, creeping to my feet,
The sea whisper'd me.
On up the sea slant,
On up the horizon,
The ship limps.
The bone of her nose fog-gray,
The heart of her sea-strong,
She came a long way,
She goes a long way.
On up the sea slant,
On up the horizon,
She limps sea-strong, fog-gray
She is a green-lit night gray.
She comes and goes in sea-fog.
Up the horizon slant she limps.
A gallant city has been builded far
In the pied heaven,
Bannered with crimson, sentinelled by star
Of crystal even;
Around a harbor of the twilight glowing,
With jubilant waves about its gateways flowing
A city of the Land of Lost Delight,
On seas enchanted,
Presently to be lost in mist moon-white
And music-haunted;
Given but briefly to our raptured vision,
With all its opal towers and shrines elysian.
Had we some mystic boat with pearly oar
And wizard pilot,
To guide us safely by the siren shore
And cloudy islet,
We might embark and reach that shining portal
Beyond which linger dreams and joys immortal.
But we may only gaze with longing eyes
On those far, sparkling
Palaces in the fairy-peopled skies,
O'er waters darkling,
Until the winds of night come shoreward roaming,
And the dim west has only gray and gloaming.
The sea-wash never ends.
The sea-wash repeats, repeats.
Only old songs? Is that all the sea knows?
Only the old strong songs?
Is that all?
The sea-wash repeats, repeats.
There dwells a wife by the Northern Gate,
And a wealthy wife is she;
She breeds a breed o' rovin' men
And casts them over sea.
And some are drowned in deep water,
And some in sight o' shore,
And word goes back to the weary wife
And ever she sends more.
For since that wife had gate or gear,
Or hearth or garth or bield,
She willed her sons to the white harvest,
And that is a bitter yield.
She wills her sons to the wet ploughing,
To ride the horse of tree,
And syne her sons come back again
Far-spent from out the sea.
The good wife's sons come home again
With little into their hands,
But the lore of men that ha' dealt with men
In the new and naked lands;
But the faith of men that ha' brothered men
By more than easy breath,
And the eyes o' men that ha' read wi' men
In the open books of death.
Rich are they, rich in wonders seen,
But poor in the goods o' men;
So what they ha' got by the skin o' their teeth
They sell for their teeth again.
For whether they lose to the naked life
Or win to their hearts' desire,
They tell it all to the weary wife
That nods beside the fire.
Her hearth is wide to every wind
That makes the white ash spin;
And tide and tide and 'tween the tides
Her sons go out and in;
(Out with great mirth that do desire
Hazard of trackless ways,
In with content to wait their watch
And warm before the blaze);
And some return by failing light,
And some in waking dream,
For she hears the heels of the dripping ghosts
That ride the rough roof-beam.
Home, they come home from all the ports,
The living and the dead;
The good wife's sons come home again
For her blessing on their head!
(Capri, Piccola Marina)
Timeless sea breezes,
sea-wind of the night:
you come for no one;
if someone should wake,
he must be prepared
how to survive you.
Timeless sea breezes,
that for aeons have
blown ancient rocks,
you are purest space
coming from afar...
Oh, how a fruit-bearing
fig tree feels your coming
high up in the moonlight.
Translated by Albert Ernest Flemming
When the sun sets over the long blue wave
I spring from my couch of rest,
And I hurtle and boom over leagues of foam
That toss in the weltering west,
I pipe a hymn to the headlands high,
My comrades forevermore,
And I chase the tricksy curls of foam
O'er the glimmering sandy shore.
The moon is my friend on clear, white nights
When I ripple her silver way,
And whistle blithely about the rocks
Like an elfin thing at play;
But anon I ravin with cloud and mist
And wail 'neath a curdled sky,
When the reef snarls yon like a questing beast,
And the frightened ships go by.
I scatter the dawn across the sea
Like wine of amber flung
From a crystal goblet all far and fine
Where the morning star is hung;
I blow from east and I blow from west
Wherever my longing be-
The wind of the land is a hindered thing
But the ocean wind is free!
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,
But sad mortality o'ersways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer's honey breath hold out
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong but Time decays?
O, fearful meditation! Where, alack,
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
O, none, unless this miracle have might,
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.
You are the daughter of the sea, oregano's first cousin.
Swimmer, your body is pure as the water;
cook, your blood is quick as the soil.
Everything you do is full of flowers, rich with the earth.
Your eyes go out toward the water, and the waves rise;
your hands go out to the earth and the seeds swell;
you know the deep essence of water and the earth,
conjoined in you like a formula for clay.
Naiad: cut your body into turquoise pieces,
they will bloom resurrected in the kitchen.
This is how you become everything that lives.
And so at last, you sleep, in the circle of my arms
that push back the shadows so that you can rest--
vegetables, seaweed, herbs: the foam of your dreams.
Translated by Stephen Tapscott
Submitted by Hen
The sea awoke at midnight from its sleep,
And round the pebbly beaches far and wide
I heard the first wave of the rising tide
Rush onward with uninterrupted sweep;
A voice out of the silence of the deep,
A sound mysteriously multiplied
As of a cataract from the mountain's side,
Or roar of winds upon a wooded steep.
So comes to us at times, from the unknown
And inaccessible solitudes of being,
The rushing of the sea-tides of the soul;
And inspirations, that we deem our own,
Are some divine foreshadowing and foreseeing
Of things beyond our reason or control.
It is a matter of a black cat
On a bare cliff top in March
Whose eyes anticipate
The gorse petals;
The formal equation of
A domestic purr
With the cold interiors
Of the sea's mirror.
I
To none the city bends a servile knee;
Purse-proud and scornful, on her heights she stands,
And at her feet the great white moaning sea
Shoulders incessantly the grey-gold sands,--
One the Almighty's child since time began,
And one the might of Mammon, born of clods;
For all the city is the work of man,
But all the sea is God's.
II
And she--between the ocean and the town--
Lies cursed of one and by the other blest:
Her staring eyes, her long drenched hair, her gown,
Sea-laved and soiled and dank above her breast.
She, image of her God since life began,
She, but the child of Mammon, born of clods,
Her broken body spoiled and spurned of man,
But her sweet soul is God's.
Lo! Death has reared himself a throne
In a strange city lying alone
Far down within the dim West,
Where the good and the bad and the worst and the best
Have gone to their eternal rest.
There shrines and palaces and towers
(Time-eaten towers that tremble not!)
Resemble nothing that is ours.
Around, by lifting winds forgot,
Resignedly beneath the sky
The melancholy waters he.
No rays from the holy heaven come down
On the long night-time of that town;
But light from out the lurid sea
Streams up the turrets silently-
Gleams up the pinnacles far and free-
Up domes- up spires- up kingly halls-
Up fanes- up Babylon-like walls-
Up shadowy long-forgotten bowers
Of sculptured ivy and stone flowers-
Up many and many a marvellous shrine
Whose wreathed friezes intertwine
The viol, the violet, and the vine.
Resignedly beneath the sky
The melancholy waters lie.
So blend the turrets and shadows there
That all seem pendulous in air,
While from a proud tower in the town
Death looks gigantically down.
There open fanes and gaping graves
Yawn level with the luminous waves;
But not the riches there that lie
In each idol's diamond eye-
Not the gaily-jewelled dead
Tempt the waters from their bed;
For no ripples curl, alas!
Along that wilderness of glass-
No swellings tell that winds may be
Upon some far-off happier sea-
No heavings hint that winds have been
On seas less hideously serene.
But lo, a stir is in the air!
The wave- there is a movement there!
As if the towers had thrust aside,
In slightly sinking, the dull tide-
As if their tops had feebly given
A void within the filmy Heaven.
The waves have now a redder glow-
The hours are breathing faint and low-
And when, amid no earthly moans,
Down, down that town shall settle hence,
Hell, rising from a thousand thrones,
Shall do it reverence.
The dead child lay in the shroud,
And the widow watched beside;
And her mother slept, and the Channel swept
The gale in the teeth of the tide.
But the mother laughed at all.
"I have lost my man in the sea,
And the child is dead.  Be still," she said,
"What more can ye do to me?"
The widow watched the dead,
And the candle guttered low,
And she tried to sing the Passing Song
That bids the poor soul go.
And "Mary take you now," she sang,
"That lay against my heart."
And "Mary smooth your crib to-night,"
But she could not say "Depart."
Then came a cry from the sea,
But the sea-rime blinded the glass,
And "Heard ye nothing, mother?" she said,
"'Tis the child that waits to pass."
And the nodding mother sighed.
"'Tis a lambing ewe in the whin,
For why should the christened soul cry out
That never knew of sin?"
"O feet I have held in my hand,
O hands at my heart to catch,
How should they know the road to go,
And how should they lift the latch?"
They laid a sheet to the door,
With the little quilt atop,
That it might not hurt from the cold or the dirt,
But the crying would not stop.
The widow lifted the latch
And strained her eyes to see,
And opened the door on the bitter shore
To let the soul go free.
There was neither glimmer nor ghost,
There was neither spirit nor spark,
And "Heard ye nothing, mother?" she said,
"'Tis crying for me in the dark."
And the nodding mother sighed:
"'Tis sorrow makes ye dull;
Have ye yet to learn the cry of the tern,
Or the wail of the wind-blown gull?"
"The terns are blown inland,
The gray gull follows the plough.
'Twas never a bird, the voice I heard,
O mother, I hear it now!"
"Lie still, dear lamb, lie still;
The child is passed from harm,
'Tis the ache in your breast that broke your rest,
And the feel of an empty arm."
She put her mother aside,
"In Mary's name let be!
For the peace of my soul I must go," she said,
And she went to the calling sea.
In the heel of the wind-bit pier,
Where the twisted weed was piled,
She came to the life she had missed by an hour,
For she came to a little child.
She laid it into her breast,
And back to her mother she came,
But it would not feed and it would not heed,
Though she gave it her own child's name.
And the dead child dripped on her breast,
And her own in the shroud lay stark;
And "God forgive us, mother," she said,
"We let it die in the dark!"
The earth grows white with harvest; all day long
The sickles gleam, until the darkness weaves
Her web of silence o'er the thankful song
Of reapers bringing home the golden sheaves.
The wave tops whiten on the sea fields drear,
And men go forth at haggard dawn to reap;
But ever 'mid the gleaners' song we hear
The half-hushed sobbing of the hearts that weep.
Whilst the moon decks herself in Neptune's glass
And ponders over her image in the sea,
Her cloudy locks smoothing from off her face
That she may all as bright as beauty be;
It is my wont to sit upon the shore
And mark with what an even grace she glides
Her two concurrent paths of azure o'er,
One in the heavens, the other in the tides:
Now with a transient veil her face she hides
And ocean blackens with a human frown;
Now her fine screen of vapour she divides
And looks with all her light of beauty down;
Her splendid smile over-silvering the main
Spreads her the glass she looks into again.
From my window I can see,
Where the sandhills dip,
One far glimpse of open sea.
Just a slender slip
Curving like a crescent moon—
Yet a greater prize
Than the harbour garden-fair
Spread beneath my eyes.
Just below me swings the bay,
Sings a sunny tune,
But my heart is far away
Out beyond the dune;
Clearer far the sea-gulls’ cry
And the breakers’ roar,
Than the little waves beneath
Lapping on the shore.
For that strip of sapphire sea
Set against the sky
Far horizons means to me—
And the ships go by
Framed between the empty sky
And the yellow sands,
While my freed thoughts follow them
Out to other lands.
All its changes who can tell?
I have seen it shine
Like a jewel polished well,
Hard and clear and fine;
Then soft lilac—and again
On another day
Glimpsed it through a veil of rain,
Shifting, drifting grey.
When the livid waters flee,
Flinching from the storm,
From my window I can see,
Standing safe and warm,
How the white foam tosses high
On the naked shore,
And the breakers’ thunder grows
To a battle-roar…
Far and far I look—Ten miles?
No, for yesterday
Sure I saw the Blessed Isles
Twenty worlds away.
My blue moon of open sea,
Is it little worth?
At the least it gives to me
Keys of all the earth
Who hath desired the Sea? -- the sight of salt water unbounded --
The heave and the halt and the hurl and the crash of the comber wind-hounded?
The sleek-barrelled swell before storm, grey, foamless, enormous, and growing --
Stark calm on the lap of the Line or the crazy-eyed hurricane blowing --
His Sea in no showing the same his Sea and the same 'neath each showing:
His Sea as she slackens or thrills?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise -- hillmen desire their Hills!
Who hath desired the Sea? -- the immense and contemptuous surges?
The shudder, the stumble, the swerve, as the star-stabbing bow-sprit emerges?
The orderly clouds of the Trades, the ridged, roaring sapphire thereunder --
Unheralded cliff-haunting flaws and the headsail's low-volleying thunder --
His Sea in no wonder the same his Sea and the same through each wonder:
His Sea as she rages or stills?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise -- hillmen desire their Hills.
Who hath desired the Sea? Her menaces swift as her mercies?
The in-rolling walls of the fog and the silver-winged breeze that disperses?
The unstable mined berg going South and the calvings and groans that declare it --
White water half-guessed overside and the moon breaking timely to bare it --
His Sea as his fathers have dared -- his Sea as his children shall dare it:
His Sea as she serves him or kills?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise -- hillmen desire their Hills.
Who hath desired the Sea? Her excellent loneliness rather
Than forecourts of kings, and her outermost pits than the streets where men gather
Inland, among dust, under trees -- inland where the slayer may slay him --
Inland, out of reach of her arms, and the bosom whereon he must lay him
His Sea from the first that betrayed -- at the last that shall never betray him:
His Sea that his being fulfils?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise -- hillmen desire their Hills.
You will not tame this sea
either by humility or rapture.
But you can laugh
in its face.
Laughter
was invented by those
who live briefly
as a burst of laughter.
The eternal sea
will never learn to laugh.
Translated from the Polish by Czeslaw Milosz and Leonard Nathan
Anonymous Submission
On ear and ear two noises too old to end
Trench—right, the tide that ramps against the shore;
With a flood or a fall, low lull-off or all roar,
Frequenting there while moon shall wear and wend.
Left hand, off land, I hear the lark ascend,
His rash-fresh re-winded new-skeinèd score
In crisps of curl off wild winch whirl, and pour
And pelt music, till none ’s to spill nor spend.
How these two shame this shallow and frail town!
How ring right out our sordid turbid time,
Being pure! We, life’s pride and cared-for crown,
Have lost that cheer and charm of earth’s past prime:
Our make and making break, are breaking, down
To man’s last dust, drain fast towards man’s first slime.
HE crawls to the cliff and plays on a brink
Where every eye but his own would shrink;
No music he hears but the billow’s noise,
And shells and weeds are his only toys.
No lullaby can the mother find
To sing him to rest like the moaning wind;
And the louder it wails and the fiercer it sweeps,
The deeper he breathes and the sounder he sleeps.
And now his wandering feet can reach
The rugged tracks of the desolate beach;
Creeping about like a Triton imp,
To find the haunts of the crab and shrimp.
He clings, with none to guide or help,
To the furthest ridge of slippery kelp;
And his bold heart glows while he stands and mocks
The seamew’s cry on the jutting rocks.
Few years have wan’d—and now he stands
Bareheaded on the shelving sands.
A boat is moor’d, but his young hands cope
Right well with the twisted cable rope;
He frees the craft, she kisses the tide;
The boy has climb’d her beaten side:
She drifts—she floats—he shouts with glee;
His soul hath claim’d its right on the sea.
’T is vain to tell him the howling breath
Rides over the waters with wreck and death:
He ’ll say there ’s more of fear and pain
On the plague-ridden earth than the storm-lash’d main.
’T would be as wise to spend thy power
In trying to lure the bee from the flower,
The lark from the sky, or the worm from the grave,
As in weaning the Sea-Child from the wave.
Where are your monuments, your battles, martyrs?
Where is your tribal memory? Sirs,
in that gray vault. The sea. The sea
has locked them up. The sea is History.
First, there was the heaving oil,
heavy as chaos;
then, likea light at the end of a tunnel,
the lantern of a caravel,
and that was Genesis.
Then there were the packed cries,
the shit, the moaning:
Exodus.
Bone soldered by coral to bone,
mosaics
mantled by the benediction of the shark's shadow,
that was the Ark of the Covenant.
Then came from the plucked wires
of sunlight on the sea floor
the plangent harp of the Babylonian bondage,
as the white cowries clustered like manacles
on the drowned women,
and those were the ivory bracelets
of the Song of Solomon,
but the ocean kept turning blank pages
looking for History.
Then came the men with eyes heavy as anchors
who sank without tombs,
brigands who barbecued cattle,
leaving their charred ribs like palm leaves on the shore,
then the foaming, rabid maw
of the tidal wave swallowing Port Royal,
and that was Jonah,
but where is your Renaissance?
Sir, it is locked in them sea sands
out there past the reef's moiling shelf,
where the men-o'-war floated down;
strop on these goggles, I'll guide you there myself.
It's all subtle and submarine,
through colonnades of coral,
past the gothic windows of sea fans
to where the crusty grouper, onyx-eyed,
blinks, weighted by its jewels, like a bald queen;
and these groined caves with barnacles
pitted like stone
are our cathedrals,
and the furnace before the hurricanes:
Gomorrah. Bones ground by windmills
into marl and cornmeal,
and that was Lamentations -
that was just Lamentations,
it was not History;
then came, like scum on the river's drying lip,
the brown reeds of villages
mantling and congealing into towns,
and at evening, the midges' choirs,
and above them, the spires
lancing the side of God
as His son set, and that was the New Testament.
Then came the white sisters clapping
to the waves' progress,
and that was Emancipation -
jubilation, O jubilation -
vanishing swiftly
as the sea's lace dries in the sun,
but that was not History,
that was only faith,
and then each rock broke into its own nation;
then came the synod of flies,
then came the secretarial heron,
then came the bullfrog bellowing for a vote,
fireflies with bright ideas
and bats like jetting ambassadors
and the mantis, like khaki police,
and the furred caterpillars of judges
examining each case closely,
and then in the dark ears of ferns
and in the salt chuckle of rocks
with their sea pools, there was the sound
like a rumour without any echo
of History, really beginning.
THE SEA! the sea! the open sea!
The blue, the fresh, the ever free!
Without a mark, without a bound,
It runneth the earth’s wide regions round;
It plays with the clouds; it mocks the skies;
Or like a cradled creature lies.
I ’m on the sea! I ’m on the sea!
I am where I would ever be;
With the blue above, and the blue below,
And silence wheresoe’er I go;
If a storm should come and awake the deep,
What matter? I shall ride and sleep.
I love, O, how I love to ride
On the fierce, foaming, bursting tide,
When every mad wave drowns the moon
Or whistles aloft his tempest tune,
And tells how goeth the world below,
And why the sou’west blasts do blow.
I never was on the dull, tame shore,
But I lov’d the great sea more and more,
And backwards flew to her billowy breast,
Like a bird that seeketh its mother’s nest;
And a mother she was, and is, to me;
For I was born on the open sea!
The waves were white, and red the morn,
In the noisy hour when I was born;
And the whale it whistled, the porpoise roll’d,
And the dolphins bared their backs of gold;
And never was heard such an outcry wild
As welcom’d to life the ocean-child!
I ’ve liv’d since then, in calm and strife,
Full fifty summers, a sailor’s life,
With wealth to spend and a power to range,
But never have sought nor sighed for change;
And Death, whenever he comes to me,
Shall come on the wild, unbounded sea!
Who lay against the sea, and fled,
Who lightly loved the wave,
Shall never know, when he is dead,
A cool and murmurous grave.
But in a shallow pit shall rest
For all eternity,
And bear the earth upon the breas
That once had worn the sea.
There are certain things -a spider, a ghost,
The income-tax, gout, an umbrella for three -
That I hate, but the thing that I hate the most
Is a thing they call the SEA.
Pour some salt water over the floor -
Ugly I'm sure you'll allow it to be:
Suppose it extended a mile or more,
That's very like the SEA.
Beat a dog till it howls outright -
Cruel, but all very well for a spree;
Suppose that one did so day and night,
That would be like the SEA.
I had a vision of nursery-maids;
Tens of thousands passed by me -
All leading children with wooden spades,
And this was by the SEA.
Who invented those spades of wood?
Who was it cut them out of the tree?
None, I think, but an idiot could -
Or one that loved the SEA.
It is pleasant and dreamy, no doubt, to float
With `thoughts as boundless, and souls as free';
But suppose you are very unwell in a boat,
How do you like the SEA.
There is an insect that people avoid
(Whence is derived the verb `to flee')
Where have you been by it most annoyed?
In lodgings by the SEA.
If you like coffee with sand for dregs,
A decided hint of salt in your tea,
And a fishy taste in the very eggs -
By all means choose the SEA.
And if, with these dainties to drink and eat,
You prefer not a vestige of grass or tree,
And a chronic state of wet in your feet,
Then -I recommend the SEA.
For I have friends who dwell by the coast,
Pleasant friends they are to me!
It is when I'm with them I wonder most
That anyone likes the SEA.
They take me a walk: though tired and stiff,
To climb the heights I madly agree:
And, after a tumble or so from the cliff,
They kindly suggest the SEA.
I try the rocks, and I think it cool
That they laugh with such an excess of glee,
As I heavily slip into every pool,
That skirts the cold, cold SEA.
I smile o'er the wrinkled blue­
Lo! the sea is fair,
Smooth as the flow of a maiden's hair;
And the welkin's light shines through
Into mid-sea caverns of beryl hue,
And the little waves laugh and the mermaids sing,
And the sea is a beautiful, sinuous thing!
I scowl in sullen guise­
The sea grows dark and dun,
The swift clouds hide the sun
But not the bale-light in my eyes,
And the frightened wind as it flies
Ruffles the billows with stormy wing,
And the sea is a terrible, treacherous thing!
When moonlight glimmers dim
I pass in the path of the mist,
Like a pale spirit by spirits kissed.
At dawn I chant my own weird hymn,
And I dabble my hair in the sunset's rim,
And I call to the dwellers along the shore
With a voice of gramarye evermore.
And if one for love of me
Gives to my call an ear,
I will woo him and hold him dear,
And teach him the way of the sea,
And my glamor shall ever over him be;
Though he wander afar in the cities of men
He will come at last to my arms again.
The sea took pity: it interposed with doom:
‘I have tall daughters dear that heed my hand:
Let Winter wed one, sow them in her womb,
And she shall child them on the New-world strand.’
. . . . . . . .
The sea, my mother, is singing to me,
She is singing the old refrain,
Of passion, of love, and of mystery,
And her world-old song of pain;
Of the mirk midnight and the dazzling day,
That trail their robes o'er the wet sea-way.
The sea, my mother, is singing to me
With the white foam caught in her hair,
With the seaweed swinging its long arms free,
To grapple the blown sea air:
The sea, my mother, with billowy swell,
Is telling her tale to the wave-washed shell.
The sea, my mother, is singing to me,
With the starry gleam in her wave,
A dirge of the dead, of the sad, sad sea,
A requiem song of the brave;
Tenderly, sadly, the surges tell
Their tale of death to the wave-washed shell.
The sea, my mother, confides to me,
As she turns to the soft, round moon,
The secrets that lie where the spirits be,
That hide from the garish noon:
The sea, my mother, who loves me well,
Is telling their woe to the wave-washed shell.
O mother o' mine, with the foam-flecked hair,
O mother, I love and know
The heart that is sad and the soul that is bare
To your daughter of ebb and flow;
And I hold your whispers of Heaven and Hell
In the loving heart of a wave-washed shell.
Lo, I have loved thee long, long have I yearned and entreated!
Tell me how I may win thee, tell me how I must woo.
Shall I creep to thy white feet, in guise of a humble lover ?
Shall I croon in mild petition, murmuring vows anew ?
Shall I stretch my arms unto thee, biding thy maiden coyness,
Under the silver of morning, under the purple of night ?
Taming my ancient rudeness, checking my heady clamor­
Thus, is it thus I must woo thee, oh, my delight?
Nay, 'tis no way of the sea thus to be meekly suitor­
I shall storm thee away with laughter wrapped in my beard of snow,
With the wildest of billows for chords I shall harp thee a song for thy bridal,
A mighty lyric of love that feared not nor would forego!
With a red-gold wedding ring, mined from the caves of sunset,
Fast shall I bind thy faith to my faith evermore,
And the stars will wait on our pleasure, the great north wind will trumpet
A thunderous marriage march for the nuptials of sea and shore.
There dwells a wife by the Northern Gate,
And a wealthy wife is she;
She breeds a breed o' rovin' men
And casts them over sea.
And some are drowned in deep water,
And some in sight o' shore,
And word goes back to the weary wife
And ever she sends more.
For since that wife had gate or gear,
Or hearth or garth or bield,
She willed her sons to the white harvest,
And that is a bitter yield.
She wills her sons to the wet ploughing,
To ride the horse of tree,
And syne her sons come back again
Far-spent from out the sea.
The good wife's sons come home again
With little into their hands,
But the lore of men that ha' dealt with men
In the new and naked lands;
But the faith of men that ha' brothered men
By more than easy breath,
And the eyes o' men that ha' read wi' men
In the open books of death.
Rich are they, rich in wonders seen,
But poor in the goods o' men;
So what they ha' got by the skin o' their teeth
They sell for their teeth again.
For whether they lose to the naked life
Or win to their hearts' desire,
They tell it all to the weary wife
That nods beside the fire.
Her hearth is wide to every wind
That makes the white ash spin;
And tide and tide and 'tween the tides
Her sons go out and in;
(Out with great mirth that do desire
Hazard of trackless ways,
In with content to wait their watch
And warm before the blaze);
And some return by failing light,
And some in waking dream,
For she hears the heels of the dripping ghosts
That ride the rough roof-beam.
Home, they come home from all the ports,
The living and the dead;
The good wife's sons come home again
For her blessing on their head!
These sea slugs,
they just don't seem
Japanese.
Translated by Robert Hass
Shades of green and aqua blue
The sea painted a thousand hues
Beneath thundering ocean wave
Out of the reach of mariners graves
A living testimony swims in majesty
once the rulers of the sea
A whale song rings from beneath the ocean
A song of praise and true devotion
To the God of creation and of the sea
A sea being robbed by cruel thieves
The whale song drifts silently away
The hands of man have silenced their praise
As God looks down in his majesty
As tears trickle down on the silent sea.
The sea awoke at midnight from its sleep,
And round the pebbly beaches far and wide
I heard the first wave of the rising tide
Rush onward with uninterrupted sweep;
A voice out of the silence of the deep,
A sound mysteriously multiplied
As of a cataract from the mountain's side,
Or roar of winds upon a wooded steep.
So comes to us at times, from the unknown
And inaccessible solitudes of being,
The rushing of the sea-tides of the soul;
And inspirations, that we deem our own,
Are some divine of foreshadowing and foreseeing
Of things beyond our reason or control.
Friend of my chamber--O thou spiral shell
That murmurest of the ever-murmuring sea!
Repeating with eternal constancy
Whatever memories the wave can tell;
Whatever harmonies may rise and swell,
Whatever sadness in the deep may be--
They are the ocean's, and desired of thee;
Thou treasurest what thou dost love so well.
So all my heart is one voluted fold,
Shielding one face, and evermore it seems
Upon the threshold of the prying day,
Hid in the tangle of reluctant dreams;
And in the noontide, and the evening grey,
Its light illumines secrecies untold
When in the large compartment,
Everyone was seated.
And all the luggage  loaded,
The family group completed.
Excitement as the train now
Leaves the local station.
Everyone perceiving
A feeling of elation.
The Servants in the Third Class
All with faces radiant,
The train now fairly straining
Up it's first steep gradient.
Smoke rising from the engine,
Through the countryside it races,
Such a rattling and a clattering,
Rhythmic chugging as it paces.
Nurse is quietly rocking baby,
Mother dozing, Father reading.
Children gazing through the window,
Trees and streams seem to be speeding.
Realisation, train is stopping,
Doors are opening, whistles blare,
All alighting from the carriage,
Platforms busy. Great sea air!
Call the porter for the luggage,
What! No luggage, this can't be,
'Did you tip the porter Father? '
Mother calls out nervously.
Father fuming calls the Driver,
Calls ths Station Master too,
Sorry Sir, it's not our doing
We will send it on to you.
Father marching to the taxi,
Mother fretting following along,
Nurse with baby shrieking loudly
Children calling, 'What is wrong? '.
Father should have tipped the porter,
Much more than a farthing's worth,
So he didn't load the luggage,
In the 'First Class' luggage berth.
It arrived early next morning,
By the first train down the track,
So as to the moral of this story,
If you're too mean, watch out Jack!
©   Ernestine Northover
This poem was written from a story handed down through the family, and the 'Father' was my husband's Great Grandfather, and it is absolutely true, he was a very mean man. A Farthing being the lowest coinage of that time. We have photos of them all sitting on the sand, in full dress with the ladies in huge feathered hats. A wonderful sight! ! ! !
SHALL I thus ever long, and be no whit the neare?
And shall I still complain to thee, the which me will not hear?
Alas! say nay! say nay! and be no more so dumb,
But open thou thy manly mouth and say that thou wilt come:
Whereby my heart may think, although I see not thee,
That thou wilt come--thy word so sware--if thou a live man be.
The roaring hugy waves they threaten my poor ghost,
And toss thee up and down the seas in danger to be lost.
Shall they not make me fear that they have swallowed thee?
--But as thou art most sure alive, so wilt thou come to me.
Whereby I shall go see thy ship ride on the strand,
And think and say Lo where he comes and Sure here will he land:
And then I shall lift up to thee my little hand,
And thou shalt think thine heart in ease, in health to see me stand.
And if thou come indeed (as Christ thee send to do!)
Those arms which miss thee now shall then embrace [and hold] thee too:
Each vein to every joint the lively blood shall spread
Which now for want of thy glad sight doth show full pale and dead.
But if thou slip thy troth, and do not come at all,
As minutes in the clock do strike so call for death I shall:
To please both thy false heart and rid myself from woe,
That rather had to die in troth than live forsaken so!
"What says the sea, little shell?
What says the sea?
Long has our brother been silent to us,
Kept his message for the ships,
Awkward ships, stupid ships."
"The sea bids you mourn, O Pines,
Sing low in the moonlight.
He sends tale of the land of doom,
Of place where endless falls
A rain of women's tears,
And men in grey robes --
Men in grey robes --
Chant the unknown pain."
"What says the sea, little shell?
What says the sea?
Long has our brother been silent to us,
Kept his message for the ships,
Puny ships, silly ships."
"The sea bids you teach, O Pines,
Sing low in the moonlight;
Teach the gold of patience,
Cry gospel of gentle hands,
Cry a brotherhood of hearts.
The sea bids you teach, O Pines."
"And where is the reward, little shell?
What says the sea?
Long has our brother been silent to us,
Kept his message for the ships,
Puny ships, silly ships."
"No word says the sea, O Pines,
No word says the sea.
Long will your brother be silent to you,
Keep his message for the ships,
O puny pines, silly pines."
With ships the sea was sprinkled far and nigh,
Like stars in heaven, and joyously it showed;
Some lying fast at anchor in the road,
Some veering up and down, one knew not why.
A goodly vessel did I then espy
Come like a giant from a haven broad;
And lustily along the bay she strode,
Her tackling rich, and of apparel high.
The ship was nought to me, nor I to her,
Yet I pursued her with a lover's look;
This ship to all the rest did I prefer:
When will she turn, and whither? She will brook
No tarrying; where she comes the winds must stir:
On went she, and due north her journey took.
WITH ships the sea was sprinkled far and nigh,
Like stars in heaven, and joyously it showed;
Some lying fast at anchor in the road,
Some veering up and down, one knew not why.
A goodly vessel did I then espy
Come like a giant from a haven broad;
And lustily along the bay she strode,
Her tackling rich, and of apparel high.
The ship was nought to me, nor I to her,
Yet I pursued her with a lover's look;
This ship to all the rest did I prefer:
When will she turn, and whither? She will brook
No tarrying; where she comes the winds must stir:
On went she, and due north her journey took.
The sea is never still.
It pounds on the shore
Restless as a young heart,
Hunting.
The sea speaks
And only the stormy hearts
Know what it says:
It is the face
of a rough mother speaking.
The sea is young.
One storm cleans all the hoar
And loosens the age of it.
I hear it laughing, reckless.
They love the sea,
Men who ride on it
And know they will die
Under the salt of it
Let only the young come,
Says the sea.
Let them kiss my face
And hear me.
I am the last word
And I tell
Where storms and stars come from.
SICK, Alice grown, and fearing dire event,
Some friend advised a servant should be sent
Her confessor to bring and ease her mind;--
Yes, she replied, to see him I'm inclined;
Let father Andrew instantly be sought:--
By him salvation usually I'm taught.
A MESSENGER was told, without delay,
To take, with rapid steps, the convent way;
He rang the bell--a monk enquired his name,
And asked for what, or whom, the fellow came.
I father Andrew want, the wight replied,
Who's oft to Alice confessor and guide:
With Andrew, cried the other, would you speak?
If that's the case, he's far enough to seek;
Poor man! he's left us for the regions blessed,
And has in Paradise ten years confessed.
Yes, fairest Proof of Beauty's Pow'r,
Dear Idol of My panting Heart,
Nature points This my fatal Hour:
And I have liv'd; and We must part.
While now I take my last Adieu,
Heave Thou no Sigh, nor shed a Tear;
Lest yet my half-clos'd Eye may view
On Earth an Object worth it's Care.
From Jealousy's tormenting Strife
For ever be Thy Bosom free'd:
That nothing may disturb Thy Life,
Content I hasten to the Dead.
Yet when some better-fated Youth
Shall with his am'rous Parly move Thee;
Reflect One Moment on His Truth,
Who dying Thus, persists to love Thee.
A sick and twisted mind,
turned by time,
becomes a new story in a twisted rhyme
Come along and read it don't cost a dime
Little Red Ridding Hood
Walking through the woods
The wolf,
mouth drooling,
up to good
Now Little Red dropped a piece of candy
With a jump and sprawl,
her face was in his jaws.
He started shaking breaking her neck,
skin started to tear apart,
and the muscles started to bleed.
The wolf was walking off with her head in his mouth,
Rage in his eyes
He was suprised that
he did succeed.
A sick and twisted mind,
turned by time,
becomes a new story in a twisted rhyme
Come along and read it, it don't cost a dime
Hansel and Gretel got left on a bridge,
scary place,
chilly like a fridge,
Owls howling in the moonlight.
They're so scared,
But they see a bright light,
The ginger bread house,
In it an old witch quiet as a mouse,
As they walk up,
She walks out
Now she invites them to eat the couch
While their back is turned she grabs an axe
Now from behind their skulls are cracked
she starts chopping wack wack wack,
Into the stew their meat goes,
it is so yummy to an old raggity hoe
A sick and twisted mind,
turned by time,
becomes a new story in a twisted rhyme
Come along and read it don't cost a dime
Jack told Jill to come play a game,
When they got up the hill,
He stabbed a knife in her brain,
Her eyes fled in the back of her head.
He pushed her down the well
her body falling dead
A sick and twisted mind,
turned by time,
becomes a new story in a twisted rhyme
Come along and read it don't cost a dime
Alice fell down a rabbit hole into a scary room,
blood on the walls
a wicked gloom
and on the floor
a dead white rabbit
the red queen loves it
killing is her habit
Alice opens the door
the queen was waiting now
Alice can't feel anymore
The cheshire cat watching the gore
He licks the blood of the dead
Then disappears with nothing said.
A sick and twisted mind,
turned by time,
becomes a new story in a twisted rhyme
Come along and read it don't cost a dime
(I Know Gruesome Sorry,
Just trying to make something
cooler than just love poems.
Just added a second part.
Sick and Twisted Mind In a Rhyme II.
If y'all liked this one,
check it out.)
The postman comes when I am still in bed.
"Postman, what do you have for me today?"
I say to him. (But really I'm in bed.)
Then he says - what shall I have him say?
"This letter says that you are president
Of - this word here; it's a republic."
Tell them I can't answer right away.
"It's your duty." No, I'd rather just be sick.
Then he tells me there are letters saying everything
That I can think of that I want for them to say.
I say, "Well, thank you very much. Good-bye."
He is ashamed, and turns and walks away.
If I can think of it, it isn't what I want.
I want . . . I want a ship from some near star
To land in the yard, and beings to come out
And think to me: "So this is where you are!
Come." Except that they won't do,
I thought of them. . . . And yet somewhere there must be
Something that's different from everything.
All that I've never thought of - think of me!
Why did I go out last night?
Maybe living alone,
and being at home
forced me to follow to you.
Or the excuse of a meal,
Every good deal,
Is better once
a beer or two
Why did they find me at the bar?
I was ready to leave,
And then a reprieve
“we’ve got plenty of beers up there”
Why can’t I say,
to my dismay,
“work, and I must be aware”
Why did I shotgun that beer?
Wasn’t it enough,
To drink and play rough
And why race to find some cheer
I’m not a quitter,
I’m always a winner,
And its easier to chug cold beer.
Why did I hit on that girl?
Couldn’t you see
She was not free
Her boyfriend made sure you did.
Your too old to fight,
Yet it happened last night,
Thank God you cheap shot that kid.
Why did I dance on the bar?
Don’t you think
That winning the pink
Is more difficult than being a fool?
I’m not quite sure
But after staying alert
A celebration was called for too.
Why did I kiss a townie?
You my young friend
Aren’t as dumb as you pretend
She’s twice your age atleast!
Oh well I think,
With each coming drink,
More like a model
less like a beast.
Why did I stay at her house?
And now you awake
Her kids are a play
One is already at school
Two are in college
Learning some knowledge
While mom sits on top of you
I’ve said this before
I’ll say it some more
Don’t ever go out of your way
To stay out at night,
And get into fights.
And work,
lets fake it today.
Copyright (c)      David DeSantis
A SICK MAN’S POEM IS A SAD POEM
A sick man’s poem is a sad poem
Walking, it is out of breath -
It stops and wonders at all the powers it took for granted
It no longer has now-
It wants to be home in bed lying down-
A sick man’s poem wants to sleep
And not care that it any longer is -
It wants rest quiet silence peace and no pain-
A sick man’s poem is out of breath too soon
And wants to lie down.
Physician of my sin-sick soul,
To thee I bring my case;
My raging malady control,
And heal me by thy grace.
Pity the anguish I endure,
See how I mourn and pine;
For never can I hope a cure
From any hand but thine.
I would disclose my whole complaint,
But where shall I begin?
No words of mine can fully paint
That worst distemper, sin.
It lies not in a single part,
But through my frame is spread;
A burning fever in my heart,
A palsy in my head.
It makes me deaf, and dumb, and blind,
And impotent and lame;
And overclouds, and fills my mind,
With folly, fear, and shame.
A thousand evil thoughts intrude
Tumultuous in my breast;
Which indispose me for my food,
And rob me of my rest.
Lord I am sick, regard my cry,
And set my spirit free;
Say, canst thou let a sinner die,
Who longs to live to thee?
With the light of the day, and the promices you made, to the memories of the future, and you just keep them all inside, emotions, life, love and respect, both you and me, we both fall to the floor, and you spring up, while im trapped in this memory, keeping a steady pace as you walk away and i just close my eyes, trying to hold the weight of the world on my shoulders, im not upset, im not angry, im not gonna let you take me down, gain access to my heart, and hurt me again, your trying to pretend your someone your not anymore, and with the way i feel, it will seal your fate, and when things go wrong, your prtend it's not real, you distance yourself, and put up a fake face, just to get into me, engulf my heart, and charr it, I won't let you, im weighing my options, no matter what you say, ill never be there with you, im not your puppet, you dream of tomorrow, another day to infect me with you virus, i evolve to be immune to your sickness.
The urge of the prince
To go around more places,
The King understood well.
Perhaps, it was God’s will.
Next, the prince went out
From the South gate,
And found a sickly man
Groaning with severe pain.
He asked his charioteer,
“What made this man suffer? ”
Charioteer gave him the reason,
“He’s sick, suffering with pain.”
The prince asked him again
“Why he’s having pain?
How he fell into sickness?
Why he’s in distress? ”
The charioteer explained
“Any being, young or old,
Rich or poor, wise or fool,
Into sickness, one can fall.”
Siddhartha felt then
“If there’s room for this pain,
It ends in one’s suffering,
So, pleasure has no meaning.”
They returned to the palace.
His mind then became restless.
For the mentally disturbed prince,
It was another painful experience
From the West gate,
Once again, he set out
Not far away from the palace,
A crowd moved in slow pace.
Four men carried a corpse
O’er their shoulders.
The men behind cried
As they closely followed.
To the prince it was
A third experience.
The charioteer this time,
Briefly explained to him.
“There comes death
After every birth.
This is the truth
Of life and death.”
The prince said, “Then
The whole world is an illusion!
For what’s unseen, is real!
And what’s seen is unreal! ”
By now so sick of waiting, I'm by now
so beaten by the pain (by now the burn
won't stop and he forgets so quickly how
I trust in his return and how I yearn),
that I cry out for her to give me rest,
she of the pallid face and reaper's knife
whose chilly touch defines the edge of life,
so hard the need that grows within my breast.
But she is deaf and gives me no relief
as if she spurned my being mad with grief,
and deafly he denies himself to me.
My eyes are always wet, and weeping fills
this villa and its shore with misery,
while he lives smugly up there in his hills.
How can I answer her?
Everybody is dying
From the moment one is born
He begins to count his steps to his grave
He begins to save money for his funeral
What makes him sick
Is the belief that he is healthy and wise
He will not die someday like the rest
To think that one is not sick
Is sickening enough
Not to think about death
That It comes anytime
Anywhere
Is sickening enough.
Such hope, as is the sick despair of good,
Such fear, as is the certainty of ill,
Such doubt, as is pale Expectation’s food
Turned while she tastes to poison, when the will
Is powerless, and the spirit...
Clof, clop, cloch,
Cloffete,
Cloppete,
Clocchete,
Chchch...
The poor
Sick
Fountain
Is down
In the courtyard;
Hearing
It cough,
What a pang!
It coughs,
Coughs,
Stands still
A bit...
Coughs
Again.
My poor
Fountain,
Your pain
Presses
My heart.
It stands still,
One can't hear
Any
Noise,
Maybe...
Maybe...
Is it dead?
Horror!
Ah! no.
Here it's again,
It coughs
Again.
Clof, clop, cloch,
Cloffete,
Cloppete,
Clocchete,
Chchch...
The phthisis
Is killing it.
Oh my God!
Its
Eternal
Cough
Is the death
Of me;
A little,
Well and good,
But a lot...
What a lamentation!
But Habel!
Victoria!
Go,
Run,
Turn the spring off,
Its
Eternal
Cough
Is the death of me!
Go,
Place
Something
To put
An end to it,
Maybe...
Maybe
To die.
Heavens!
Jesus!
Never more!
Never more.
In the end
With your
Ill,
My poor
Fountain,
You'll see you kill
Me as well.
Clof, clop, cloch,
Cloffete,
Cloppete,
Clocchete,
Chchch...
(Translated from Italian by P.G.Mazzarello)
when you left me
i got sick
got really sick
for a long time
but i did not die
even when you
left me, got sick
and got sick for
more than i can
handle, but i
did not die
somehow i
got sick but
i cannot die,
i am alive and
soon i know
i will be in love
again, my promise
to myself, my
hope eternal.
spring, and new
moon, and change.
wearing a short hair
a smile
her hands clasped
she sits beside her
sick grandmother
the faint light
by the window
enters gently
filtered by the
thin silky drape
the grandmother
is dying and her
daughter has an
axe to grind
she comes as
an offering
a link between
two worlds
long separated
by indifference.
Have you ever been sick?
Walked that hospital floor with a stick
Have you ever been sick?
Had an operation painted graphically horrific
My knees, weak they felt
I heard their voices melt
Into pain from poor health
For them rebirth or death sickness spelt
Suddenly I realized life is not static
While listening to a tale so tragic
A mother cried at sicknesses trick
Her family of four it decided to pick
At any time we can lose
Anyone sickness decides to abuse!
Have you ever been sick?
In vain visited numerous clinics
Have you ever been sick?
Wondering where life will next kick
Have you ever had a cough?
Thinking you are having it so rough
Have you ever suffered from heat?
Knowing others gave up there in defeat
Have you suffered from cuts?
Or open wounds that severely hurt
Have you ever looked at the sick?
And thought anyone of them eccentric
Health is wealth and good health for sure
Is created by thoughts that are deemed pure
While the clock goes tick-tock-tick
If you ever find yourself sick
It helps to eliminate the negative traffic
With more than just a mere flick
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
O time, great Healer! canst thou still
The crying hearts that feel the knife?
O great Restorer, canst thou fill
The wide gaps broken out of life
By love and duty's bitter strife?
O Friend, and canst thou, as they say,
Soothe all our troubles on thy breast,
Till, calm in death, they pass away,
And, one by one, are laid to rest
In unknown graves, beyond our quest?
Nay, there's a wound thou canst not ease;
Nay, there's a sickness past thine art.
Ah me! while I'm beyond the seas,
There'll be a sore place in my heart
That, at a touch, will throb and smart.
Nay, nay, with all thy skill—with all
The care and cunning thou mayst spend,
Thou canst but weakly patch the wall
That wrench of parting came to rend,
That gap no mason's hand can mend.
And as for buried sorrows—one
Hears every sound above its head;
Joys and prosperities may run
With happy footsteps o'er the dead,—
This grief of absence feels the tread.
O Time, thy graveyard is a street—
Thy graves no sculptured records crown;
Yet this one, trod of many feet,
Still shows the heap'd earth, fresh and brown,—
No foot of joy can press it down.
There velvet mosses soon will creep,
And grey and golden lichens grow;
There sweet white snowdrops soon will peep,
And purple violets bud and blow,
From winter's bosom, cloak'd in snow;
There summer lights and shades will fall,
And soft rains patter through the trees;
There slender grasses, frail and tall,
Will weave and whisper in the breeze—
'Twill be a grave in spite of these.
'Tis sweet to him, who all the week
Through city-crowds must push his way,
To stroll alone through fields and woods,
And hallow thus the Sabbath-day.
And sweet it is, in summer bower,
Sincere, affectionate and gay,
One's own dear children feasting round,
To celebrate one's marriage-day.
But what is all, to his delight,
Who having long been dommed to roam,
Throws off the bundle from his back,
Before the door of his own home?
Home-sickness is a wasting pang;
This feel I hourly more and more:
There's healing only in thy wings,
Thou Breeze that play'st on Albion's shore!
HOW CAN POETRY HEAL THE SICK?
How can Poetry heal the sick?
When the sick can no longer speak
The Poetry within them?
How can Poetry heal
Those who can no longer hear it?
How can Poetry be anything
When the suffering person
Barely has a mind anymore?
God has given us Poetry
A Great Blessing -
But like all God has given us
At certain times
It simply is not good enough.
368
How sick—to wait—in any place—but thine—
I knew last night—when someone tried to twine—
Thinking—perhaps—that I looked tired—or alone—
Or breaking—almost—with unspoken pain—
And I turned—ducal—
That right—was thine—
One port—suffices—for a Brig—like mine—
Ours be the tossing—wild though the sea—
Rather than a Mooring—unshared by thee.
Ours be the Cargo—unladed—here—
Rather than the "spicy isles—"
And thou—not there—
Father, in the dark I lay,
Thirsting for the light,
Helpless, but for hope alway
In thy father-might.
Out of darkness came the morn,
Out of death came life,
I, and faith, and hope, new-born,
Out of moaning strife!
So, one morning yet more fair,
I shall, joyous-brave,
Sudden breathing loftier air,
Triumph o'er the grave.
Though this feeble body lie
Underneath the ground,
Wide awake, not sleeping, I
Shall in him be found.
But a morn yet fairer must
Quell this inner gloom-
Resurrection from the dust
Of a deeper tomb!
Father, wake thy little child;
Give me bread and wine
Till my spirit undefiled
Rise and live in thine.
I am sick and dying
on my death bed i am lying
no one is sad
no one is crying
They eat, drink and are merry
asking questions;
Is it cheaper to burn or to bury?
I said;
'Somebody call the doctor! '
' I am sick, i am dying! '
They called the priest
to spray me with holy mist,
to get me ready for the next life
They don't want me to go into any more strife.
I said;
'Somebody call the doctor! '
'I am sick, i am dying! '
They said;
'Your last will and testament
where is it hiding?
Now that you are dying,
you are not gone need all that money.
You'll be in haven
There are rivers of milk and honey! '
I said;
' I am filing better now!
I am not sick, i am not dying
to take my money, stop trying.
I am going to dig it out of the hole,
I'll go shopping and spend it all.
I'll by my self a brand new car
To celebrate, I'll smoke a cigar
I'll go on holiday and drink champagne.
When i get back I'll start a campagne.
All retires who don't like milk and honey
join the grey army.
Start spending your kids inheritance,
start spending your hard earned money'
This poem was written after a story i watched on current affair.
Piles of trash line the halls
Some six feet tall
And still overflowing
With more garbage piled on top.
It's a never ending contamination,
A consistant spreading of filth
And absolute vile
Into what seems to be only my surroundings.
Everyone is a dumpster of sorts
With their taste and smell
Exaggerated a little to much
Making me sikened
I am sick of running away
From the rain
And at the same time
I am beeing a fool
Because the rain
Can't hurt me
I'm sick and tired of being trained
To only love the things you’ve stained
I'm sick and tired of leaving behind
Little pieces of me which you’ll find
I’m sick and tired of faking my smiles
And wishing for the pain to go away for awhile
I’m sick and tired of listening to the rain
And counting each pill I take for my pain
I’m sick and tired of grouping for life
When all I want to do is end this strife
I’m sick and tired of loving you
Only to have you say “love ain’t true”
Im sick of crying,
Im sick of lying,
Im sick of trying for something that wouldnt even work.
I hate thinking about you
I hate thinking its all true
I hate thinking about the past because your just a jerk.
im sick of not knowing,
im sick of not showing,
im sick of all the starring
im sick of not caring
im sick of being labled bad
im sick of always looking sad
im sick of feeling locked in bars
im sick of all the painful scars
im sick of all the thugs
im sick of all the drugs
im sick of asking myself why
im sick of telling myself i want to die
im sick of feeling like i always want to cry
im sick of living a lie
im sick of not having a dream
im sick of lifes borring theme
but thares only one was out...
so what does that mean?
im so sick and tired of all this s***
of crying and people throwing a fit
Im so sick and tired of all this bleeding
of cutting and people not caring
im so sick and tired of drama
of the gov't and obama
im so sick and tired of tears
of crying and stupid a** peers
im so sick and tired of boys
of them treating girls like useless toys
im so sick and tired of ryhming
screw it,
im so sick and tired of being told what to do
im so sick and tired of being so sick and tired
but the most thing that im so f****ing tired of
is sobing and having the only comfort of empty echoes
I will break into your thoughts
With what's written on my heart
I will break, break
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
If you want more of this
We can push out, sell out, die out
So you'll shut up
And stay sleeping
With my screaming in your itching ears
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
Hear it, I'm screaming it
You're heeding to it now
Hear it, I'm screaming it
You tremble at this sound
You sink into my clothes
This invasion makes me feel
Worthless, hopeless, sick
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so, I'm so sick
I'm so sick, infected with
Where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so (I'm so)
I'm so sick (I'm so sick)
I'm so (I'm so)
I'm so sick (I'm so sick)
I’ve morphed myself into a trance as I search for my friend
I find him in a drawer, shining silver and sharp
While lifting it I remove the safety cap
And as I draw it across me, I feel nothing
I finally get what I deserve, a slice, a cut, a tare
But it’s not enough
I pull and press the skin apart and together
I bleed
I drift
I’m not finished, I’m addicted
I go again, and again, a hundred times if that’s what it takes
I can’t feel it
What’s happened, what’s wrong, what did I do
I never wanted to be this way
And while it disgusts me I feel releaved
I no longer feel sorry for things I’m not sorry for.
ll break into your thoughts
With what's written on my heart
I will break, break
I'm so sick,
Infected with where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss,
Selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
If you want more of this
We can push out, sell out, die out
So you'll shut up
And stay sleeping
With my screaming in your itching ears
I'm so sick,
Infected with where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss,
Selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
Hear it, I'm screaming it
You're heeding to it now
Hear it! I'm screaming it!
You tremble at this sound
You sink into my clothes
And this invasion
Makes me feel
Worthless, hopeless, sick
I'm so sick,
Infected with where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss,
Selfishness
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
I'm so sick
Infected with where I live
Let me live without this
Empty bliss, selfishness
I'm so
I'm so sick
I'm so
I'm so sick
I'm tired of being the girl
Who's always left out
I'm sick of being the one
Who's always put down
I'm fed up with you
And all the insults you say
What have I ever done to deserve this?
It cuts really deep
With hurt and pain
I'm not taking it anymore
I'm not running away
I've never done anything
To hurt you in anyway
I'm tired, sick and fed up
Now, I don't care what you say
Dadadada I’m so happy
Got a text message
Which cured me like tranquilizers.
The magical reaction is filling up my bones;
Charming my instability,
And balancing my lack of empathy.
Now I’m grinning like a sick
Non-manic depressive.
“School closed for two days.
Tell the others,
See you on Monday.”
Bwahahaha
Many gratitudes to
The forests in Sumatera
Thank you for burning
Yourself down,
And letting the haze
Shroud my city.
(And the doctors are making a lot of money too)
I’m coughing
My eyes are twitching
I’m tasting the smokey air
And my throat is sore
But I’m not taking this smile off,
Na ah! You can’t make me.
Woo-hoo
How nice
Many intangible benefits
I can exploit.
No need to scream for attention;
(I'm sick, baybeh!)
And
Of course I will exaggerate for sympathy!
Ahh yes,
Being unwell is so liberating sometimes.
(I can't wait to hide under the blankets)
Quote he does...
From those who lived in 1779!
In town meetings held,
To enthrall those captured...
By a deceit known too well!
And he bloats these quotes,
Wishing to be perceived and believed...
He is the one chosen,
And the best to lead!
He makes statements of having values,
Like those who sit and listen.
While their infrastructure crumbles quick.
He dares to announce...
He supports more of this.
Yet nothing has he said,
Makes sense to their current existence!
He speaks of more war!
As they all are faced with foreclosed doors.
He speaks of depleting,
Their struggles to maintain...
A quality of life.
While an economy drains...
And crawls from lack of insight!
He speaks of disqualifications,
Of those he opposes!
Those who stand for justice.
Those inexperienced...
Who insist to wake up those who dose!
He campaigns to keep a drain remaining.
As those confused applaud in ovation!
Those who wish to maintain their blight.
Although he has no innovation...
To end their self righteousness,
Or their degradation!
Addicted they are!
And prescribed to sustain conflicts.
In sick divisions!
That darken their dimming visions!
That removes 'light' from their lives!
And yet...
He has been selected,
As the best candidate!
Their best prospect...
To reap a remembered prosperity.
From dreams that are dieing.
But he promises 'if' elected...
He will turn back the clock to revive,
And restore!
This he says he will ensure they get!
They plan the deaths of and murder people they do not even know
Which causes me for to wonder how this can be so
In their own sick minds they write their own laws
Is Humanity not considered in their political cause
They murder people guilty of only one crime
To be in the wrong place and there at the wrong time
When they call themselves freedom fighters they have got it all wrong
A freedom fighter to their group would not wish to belong
They hardly would know what freedom is about
And their very sanity one has to doubt
To live free of fear is a basic Human Right
And even of such a freedom they do gladly make light
Of and they are a disgrace to Humanity of them one can say
And to Karma for their crimes a huge price they must pay.
Thou hast not left the rough-barked tree to grow
Without a mate upon the river's bank;
Nor dost Thou on one flower the rain bestow,
But many a cup the glittering drops has drank;
The bird must sing to one who sings again,
Else would her note less welcome be to hear;
Nor hast Thou bid thy word descend in vain,
But soon some answering voice shall reach my ear;
Then shall the brotherhood of peace begin,
And the new song be raised that never dies,
That shall the soul from death and darkness win,
And burst the prison where the captive lies;
And one by one new-born shall join the strain,
Till earth restores her sons to heaven again.
O, Noorjahan, thou know’st,
I have been sick all these days?
‘Justice, O Queen, on this brutal sinner,
Who tortured the world?
The river Jamuna was reddened
And run thinner every day.
Now see, I being sick,
Destined to be howled in the next world.
I, for myself, pained other’s heart,
The shame must be borne alone,
Bows my head and trembles my knees.
I am a kefir, vexed others, and cursed by God.
.O, Noorjahan, thou young, I old,
Sad he who lives here, on silk carpets,
All kind of fruits, grape syrup, apple, colored ice,
Cherries served in diamond plates,
I have meat, wine and virgins at will,
And palaces of treasure, nor enjoy these.
As my body and soul, both sick.
Crippled with deficiency syndrome,
Unknown are my real father and mother,
Borne by the magic of a fakir,
And one among thirty usurp wives and,
Five thousand concubines may be my mother.
Grey bearded corrupt courtiers never wrote,
Misdeeds my father did, nor the thousands did he slay,
He loved brutalities and lived long,
Cursed my childhood, with the cold, dull soil.
Youth blackened with follies and ill thoughts,
Doomed, absurd and arrogant.
Even the mighty name, I have,
Will soon be forgotten, when I am dead,
So have I neither fame nor joy.
Death’s harsh brush, dimmed thy cruel brow,
A life that wrote havoc with the sword,
Power made it imbecile.
Molded itself in wine, women and wealth
A life with vigor dimmed and decayed,
Now chocked, my faltering soul and tongue,
A brutal heart not to be wrecked by countless dead,
Will be buried under fretted stones’ tomb,
In a dark corner of Agra.
From:
DR. Yogesh SHARMA
The birds' shrill fluting
Beats on the pink blind,
Pierces the pink blind
At whose edge fumble the sun's
Fingers till one obtrudes
And stirs the thick motes.
The room is a close box of pink warmth.
The minutes click.
A man picks across the street
With a metal-pointed stick.
Three clocks drop each twelve pennies
On the drom of noon.
The birds end.
A child's cry pricks the hush.
The wind plucks at a leaf.
The birds rebegin.
Submitted by Stephen Fryer
Ma pauvre muse, hélas! qu'as-tu donc ce matin?
Tes yeux creux sont peuplés de visions nocturnes,
Et je vois tour à tour réfléchis sur ton teint
La folie et l'horreur, froides et taciturnes.
Le succube verdâtre et le rose lutin
T'ont-ils versé la peur et l'amour de leurs urnes?
Le cauchemar, d'un poing despotique et mutin
T'a-t-il noyée au fond d'un fabuleux Minturnes?
Je voudrais qu'exhalant l'odeur de la santé
Ton sein de pensers forts fût toujours fréquenté,
Et que ton sang chrétien coulât à flots rythmiques,
Comme les sons nombreux des syllabes antiques,
Où règnent tour à tour le père des chansons,
Phoebus, et le grand Pan, le seigneur des moissons.
The Sick Muse
My poor Muse, alas! what ails you today?
Your hollow eyes are full of nocturnal visions;
I see in turn reflected on your face
Horror and madness, cold and taciturn.
Have the green succubus, the rosy elf,
Poured out for you love and fear from their urns?
Has the hand of Nightmare, cruel and despotic,
Plunged you to the bottom of some weird Minturnae?
I would that your bosom, fragrant with health,
Were constantly the dwelling place of noble thoughts,
And that your Christian blood would flow in rhythmic waves
Like the measured sounds of ancient verse,
Over which reign in turn the father of all songs,
Phoebus, and the great Pan, lord of harvest.
— Translated by William Aggeler
The Sick Muse
Alas, poor Muse, what ails you so today?
Your hollow eyes with midnight visions burn,
And turn about, in your complexion play
Madness and horror, cold and taciturn.
Green succubus and rosy imp — have they
Poured you both fear and love into one glass?
Or with his tyrant fist the nightmare, say,
Submerged you in some fabulous morass?
I wish that, breathing health, your breast might nourish
Ever robuster thoughts therein to flourish:
And that your Christian blood, in rhythmic flow,
With those old polysyllables would chime,
Where, turn about, reigned Phoebus, sire of rhyme,
And Pan, the lord of harvests long ago.
— Translated by Roy Campbell
La Muse malade
poor Muse, alas! what ails thee now? for thy
great hollow eyes with sights nocturnal burn,
and in they changing pallor I descry
madness and frozen horror, turn by turn.
did rosy sprites or pale green succubi
pour love or panic from their dream-filled urn?
did the mad fist of despot nightmare try
to drown thee where the fiends of hell sojourn?
I would that thou wert always filled with health
and manly thoughts undaunted; that a wealth
of Christian blood were thine, which always flowed
in calm broad rhythms like a Grecian ode,
now echoing forth Apollo's golden strain,
and now great Pan, the lord of ripening grain.
— Translated by Lewis Piaget Shanks
The Sick Mused
My impoverished muse, alas! What have you for me this morning?
Your empty eyes are stocked with nocturnal visions,
In your cheek's cold and taciturn reflection,
I see insanity and horror forming.
The green succubus and the red urchin,
Have they poured you fear and love from their urns?
The nightmare of a mutinous fist that despotically turns,
Does it drown you at the bottom of a loch beyond searching?
I wish that your breast exhaled the scent of sanity,
That your womb of thought was not a tomb more frequently
And that your Christian blood flowed around a buoy that was rhythmical,
Like the numberless sounds of antique syllables,
Where reigns in turn the father of songs,
Phoebus, and the great Pan, the harvest sovereign.
Translated by William A. Sigler
I am ready to give my breath to my sick friend who was in the hospital.
New ferry is far away,
And already I missed my ferry.
If I can disguise as a beautiful nurse
And enter your ward at midnight.
When I give you a big kiss
Definitely you will wake up and shout 'Tina'.
Then I will say 'sorry Denis it's me'.
A male nurse wants to see your health.
You soothe my heart, Immersing my body
in your love.Gently you bathe my soul.
Washing away past pain.You centralise
my feeling without words that many believe
they should say.Before I was lovelorn.
Unhappy because my heart was torn.
But now, I'm love sick. Pinning, I feel weak
ill with all the love I feel.
© Jon.London 2009
Hooray for me, no really, I'm so delighted you speak to me but, would you kill me in my sleep?
you wouldn't dare, your life has no value to me except cash value. lovers so overwhelmed with love for one another. you can't live without each other.
love sick puppies
options are endless to end the pain inside, here are just a few ideas for 'eternal love'
lay in the tub together, your bodies as one....so just....meaningful
love sick puppies
drag a blade across each other's wrists, now bleed all of the love you have into the tub
here's another option for my lil pups
so in love you are
make sweet love for the last time, look each other in the eyes, whisper i love you
then take a 45 and at the same time hold it to the others temple. pull the triggers
love sick puppies
you have done the right thing
so, i will do my thing
i am the 'CLEANER'
i will collect payment from...hum...your parents insurance policy
put on the respirator, tyvek suit, and pull what is left of your head from the ceiling and walls
bag it, tag it, put your remaining pieces of 'eternal love' in a bio hazard box
love sick puppies
see you at the incinerator
When imbeciles are encouraged,
They take pride in the mounting of ignorance.
Listening to others is a joke to them.
They have ridiculous actions figured out!
Planning escapades with supporters...
They find a way to make common sense
A challenge to keep afloat!
For those who have long divorced themselves
From nonsense!
Even though they vote...
To discover themselves choking,
On ethnic jokes provoked!
Watching folks accept being duped and doped!
And it is the burden of those with senses left,
To find fresh creative ways to explain
'How' they could allow such bullshit to exist...
To sustain and maintain.
As they become more addicted
To pretending they too...
Aren't mentally sick!
Although they follow fools
Whether poor or rich,
Out of habit!
Showing signs they are clearly insane,
With their empathetic static!
In the middle of the night
She entered the shop
Where I work and she tells;
'My child is sick and cold outside
Could you please spare me a cardboard box.'
'Certainly I'll give you Madam!
If I am not inquisitive a small question,
Where's the child's father? '
'Since the first World war he never returned
And I heard he stays with Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany, British King George V and Emperor Franz Josef of Austria-Hungary.'
I noticed she carefully wrapped her ragged-doll with an old paper
And kept in the box a plastic bottle as a pillow!
-
My heart is sick with longing, tho' I feed
On hope; Time goes with such a heavy pace
That neither brings nor takes from thy embrace,
As if he slept—forgetting his old speed:
For, as in sunshine only we can read
The march of minutes on the dial's face,
So in the shadows of this lonely place
There is no love, and Time is dead indeed.
But when, dear lady, I am near thy heart,
Thy smile is time, and then so swift it flies,
It seems we only meet to tear apart,
With aching hands and lingering of eyes.
Alas, alas! that we must learn hours' flight
By the same light of love that makes them bright!
All my loved ones around me pacifying.
'Papa! you will be all right now,
Mamma spoke to the doctor
and he said nothing wrong with you
reports show everything normal'.
Adjoining bed in whispers,
the person who warded in the morning
ready to say good bye to all.
I feel that I am taking his last exhaled breath.
Doctors never diagnose my sickness.
The stethoscope reads only my heart beat
and never count my inner feelings.
'I am sick since my childhood'
I said to the doctor.
'No you are very healthy'
Then I said ' That's my sickness what I feel doctor'.
it is something that i will give
on my own free will to you
you do not buy it. you cannot steal it.
you are sick and we know it.
you do not wish any cure. and we too know that.
you wish for the time to come.
it will. like a scheduled date. like what you always do.
fulfill a promise. and never be afraid.
you walk alone. that is what you like best.
you talk alone. that is your way of making the poems.
i have nothing to give. you do not know how to ask.
you do not ask for anything.
i am giving you, this smile.
that last one for you. you never ask for it.
i am giving it. willingly.
goodbye. as you close your eyes, i do not expect
that you smile back.
it is enough. now sleep.
Numb, stiff, broken by no sleep,
I keep night watch. Looking for
signs to quiet fear, I creep
closer to his bed and hear
his breath come and go, holding
my own as if my own were
all I paid. Nothing I bring,
say, or do has meaning here.
Outside, ice crusts on river
and pond; wild hare come to my
door pacified by torture.
No less ignorant than they
of what grips and why, I am
moved to prayer, the quaint gestures
which ennoble beyond shame
only the mute listener.
No one hears. A dry wind shifts
dry snow, indifferently;
the roof, rotting beneath drifts,
sighs and holds. Terrified by
sleep, the child strives toward
consciousness and the known pain.
If it were mine by one word
I would not save any man,
myself or the universe
at such cost: reality.
Heir to an ancestral curse
though fallen from Judah's tree,
I take up into my arms my hopes,
my son, for what it's worth give
bodily warmth. When he escapes
his heritage, then what have
I left but false remembrance
and the name? Against that day
there is no armor or stance,
only the frail dignity
of surrender, which is all
that can separate me now
or then from the dumb beast's fall,
unseen in the frozen snow.
0 Captain! My Sick Captain! One failed inning you played,
The nation has faced all the odds, the reward pined is relayed.
The target was easy, fragmented mind, people crying,
The courtier taste the cream, nation is sad and dying.
I see the bleeding masses in tattered,
My crowned Captain feigning cold and dead.
0 Captain! My Sick Captain! Get up and see the toll,
Rise up to furl the flag and hear the call.
People offered you banquets and wreaths taming,
But crushing them by your misdeeds, you are turning.
Lost in burqa, pagri and quota race,
Never thinks of hunger, thirst and labor rage.
My Captain turning aside, his lips are pale and still,
My leader does not feel the pain, no face, no will.
Crown is placed safe and sound, target closed and won,
From divided nation, the victory touched with sweet run.
Listen sad cries and ring the bell right,
Don’t be afraid of Madam White.
Crippled on the red My Captain lies,
Fallen cold and dead he cries.
FROM:
DR. YOGESH SHARMA
To the children, I note, with alarm
that this year we will miss all his charm.
Seems that Santa is ill
and this Christmas he will
be attending obesity farm.
Let me tell you the genuine reason,
as he packed all the bags for the season
he attached all the tags
to resealable bags.
Helped himself though and I am not teasin'.
He has reflux  and forty-three chins
a balloon-like fat face when he grins.
And a belly so vast
that he went on a fast
but at night he eats cookies from tins.
So I'd say that we need to persuade
to take over this great masquerade
not a nerdy dyslexic
but a thin anorexic
at the helm of this proud reindeercade.
Sick for all...
All are sick...
Today...
Morden world...
Sick is not disease
Sick is little of
Back pain...
Little of leg pain...
Little of sneezy...
Little of head ache...
Little of tired....
All are sick...
Sick for all...above
With a badley life style...
Im sick of pretending its all perfect
Tired of living a lie
Sick of loving you
Tired of the tears I cry
Im sick of giving you my love
Tired of getting nothing in return
Sick of all your other girls
Tired of being unable to learn
Im sick of running back to you
Tired of returning hurt
Sick of been laughed about
Tired of being treated like dirt
Im sick of living this life
Tired of being blue
Sick of thoughts about giving up
Tired of the stupid things I do
Im so sick of it all
So sick Im going do it
So tired of been stuck in the middle
So tired Im going to quit
The flue eats
my head and throat and body
and still you come and lie
close against me
and let your fingers
branch right through mine.
My throat burns
and I am scared
that you will also
get something
of this awful thing,
but without a worry
you kiss me
and I can feel life
pulsing on your soft hot lips.
Your fingers tickle the hairs
on my lip and chin
and there are teasing devils
dancing in your eyes,
while your fingers
creep to places
under my arms.
Like a child
I am given medicine
while I am already
much better,
in my soul and spirit
since you are with me.
The flue eats
my head and throat and body
and still you come and lie
close against me
and let your fingers
branch right through mine.
My throat burns
and I am scared
that you will also
get something
of this awful thing,
but without a worry
you kiss me
and I can feel life
pulsing on your soft hot lips.
Your fingers tickle the hairs
on my lip and chin
and there are teasing devils
dancing in your eyes,
while your fingers
creep to places
under my arms.
Like a child
I am given medicine
while I am already
much better,
in my soul and spirit
since you are with me.
You feel so lonely when people ignore
You are left uncared when you are sick, in bed, and people ignore
Your body pains
And you are feeling cold
Your eyes are watery
But around is not a soul
They are so busy with the things about themselves
They walk across you and don’t even look
They are always there taking things for granted
They don’t even care to ask about your health
You try calling them but they just don’t care
I am here
Having fever, feeling cold
All they think is I am well but they don’t see the change in me
I sit here quiet all dull and pale
They are so busy to even learn about my state
All of this sickness and pain are not the ones that hurt me
But being uncared gives my eyes the tears of  blood
A bell rings out, a deep toned bell.
A single chime; that’s ominous.
What does that single chime foretell?
So resonant and sonorous
It marks the passing of the hour.
Perhaps the passing of a soul
It issues from the ivied tower
and echoes imitate its toll.
I long to know but I must wait
while night hours crawl slowly past
deliberately to agitate.
It seems to me the night hours last
much longer than they ought to do.
When aches and pains keep me awake
Although I know it isn’t true.
It seems to be for pity’s sake.
My morbid fancies lead me to
conclusions that I should not draw
As morbid fancies tend to do
more often than they did before.
There’s nothing left in life for me
I’ve run my race I’m satisfied
That friendly death will set me free.
I‘ve been alone since my wife died.
I know I won’t hear my death knell
I find the thought amuses me
but there is no one I can tell
about this thought that tickles me.
When my call comes I will rejoice
I’ve long been waiting patiently
but we are given little choice
I will greet  my death eagerly.
I’m weary and I long to go
but know I have to wait my turn.
Although I wish it wasn’t so
I must wait patiently and yearn.
16-Jul-08
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
i am sick...please don`t be sad...
i am sick...please don`t tell anyone...
i am sick...please forgive me if i hurt you...
i am sick...going so faraway from here...
i am sick...saying this only for you...
i am sick...maybe will never come back...
i am sick...remember me and never forget me...
i am sick...pray for me and wish me all best what you can...
i am sick...all wounds i have inside my heart...
i am sick...please don`t be sad...
i am sick... and you will never see me..
How strange to be so sick in Moscow
That even the call of Czarist treasures
And the great icon hall was stilled.
There is nothing that says
People have to prove they have no clue
As to what they are doing.
There is nothing to get them jailed,
For playing the roll of idiot overtime.
How they land in positions of decision making,
Should break all of our hearts.
Surrealistic 'realities' are becoming the norm!
Freaks, geeks and weirdness has become mainstream.
Children can now download porno on a phone that buzzes...
Or rings,
Or plays loud music that makes some want to scream!
And some old man sitting alone in a convalescent home,
Staring out the window...
Will declare these years we now live as the good years,
When flashbacking to these times!
Glorifying the days of corruption,
And imitating how he too dealt with crime!
And today...
This circus has some folks,
Justifying this 'crap' in their minds!
Playing truth or dare,
With a peace no one can find!
But every dime is being sucked up...
In search for ways to make it happen!
There is nothing that says
People have to prove they have no clue,
As to what they are doing...
When something they do,
Is screwing it up for me and you!
But there should be a limit placed
On the number of psychiatrists,
Who are hired as policemen...
To maintain a law and order,
That has clearly become a nightmare
Wherever sick judgements are made!
When I’m asleep, dreaming and lulled and warm,—
They come, the homeless ones, the noiseless dead.
While the dim charging breakers of the storm
Bellow and drone and rumble overhead,
Out of the gloom they gather about my bed.
They whisper to my heart; their thoughts are mine.
‘Why are you here with all your watches ended?
From Ypres to Frise we sought you in the Line.’
In bitter safety I awake, unfriended;
And while the dawn begins with slashing rain
I think of the Battalion in the mud.
‘When are you going out to them again?
Are they not still your brothers through our blood?’
My pillow is so wet,
my eyes are too red.
my soul is wounded and hurt,
I shouldn't have listened to my heart's alert.
I am a victim of love,
I am weak, I'm a dove.
scold me, hang me and shoot me to death,
I am sorry I have fallen in your love in this earth.
stretch your delicate hands, pluck out that damned heart,
Burn it, melt like ice and take it apart.
Purified heart, only then I can stop loving you,
You are a snapshot of heaven's view.
I cann't take my eyes from yours,
you're the one I chose.
I'll love you  now and after I am not alive,
Your lovely smile inspires me my whole life.
I am crazy about your eyes,
that have many ties to heaven and skies.
free your soul, let it embrace mine,
This is how I felt when I met u the first time.
When I experience the softness of your rosy lips,
my heart goes out of my chest and slips.
you're the perfect combination of sexy and cute,
Hold my hand warmly and let's take our fated route.
I am old, a worn-out patient.
Hold me so tight, you're my last love station.
Whisper in my ear.
Let me enjoy and hear,
the soft sound of your  voice,
love me, hold me and rejoice.
Adverts? asks the television
Again.
I switch it off
in a spasm of white noise
and leave the scene.
Behind, it comes lurching out of the bath
blood stained focus says
adverts
Must have forgotten the freeview.
Unplug at the wall.
(Note; if you haven't seen 'Fatal Attraction' the bath reference may not make much sense)
' & She'sz sick of music...
Because it's the only thing that won't fight back '
Sick of living
Sick of pain
Sick of rejection
Sick of humanity
Sick of everything.
I'm sorry for the pain I have caused.
I'm sorry for the things I've done wrong.
I'm sorry for the bad things about me.
I'm sorry for the world being so shitty.
I'm sorry for it all.
I can only hope you will forgive me.
I can only hope that things will get better.
I can only hope for release.
I can only hope for the pain to stop.
It would be, I knew, a frosty day,
the milkman grunted his usual
and always hasty as a buzzing fly
greeting to me, scruffy fellow he is,
told him again that glass bottles,
in this day and age, will NOT do,
lose the Riboflavin in the milk,
even with the pissy little sun we have
here in the land of Schopenhauer.
Nineteen fifty they found this,
today you see angular cheilitis,
seborrheic dermatitis and thrush
everywhere, don't these so called
decisionmakers care at all?
Diesel is up again and Rolf is right,
it's time to get a furnace so they will,
with no questions asked sell me oil,
half price will surely help with the beer,
weekends must be properly observed.
Streetcar my foot, easy for a pollie
to say one thing and practice another,
I will be independent I told them,
though pension officers don't have a heart,
or a soul, just egg stains on their ties
and coffee suds in their paper cups,
whatever happened to the good old days,
when the snow was white and the bread,
yes the Good German bread was dark,
and warm on the shelves, at one mark,
maybe one ten a loaf of 1.2 kilo, with crust
and wrapped in paper, not plastic made from
discarded tires or rubber boots, at a cost,
yes they are charging for the goddam bags now,
bring your own they say or else, that's eerily
very eerily close to saying take the tram, boy!
I'm thinking of leaving this land, it's too cold,
too crowded and too hectic, maybe Brazil,
though they said in National Geographic,
yes I know, but it was at the library, anyway
unstable government and then the language,
they might just laugh at me, linguist is,
most likely, no guarantee.Canada is old hat,
stetson they call them I believe, cold as well.
America, so says the butcher, is going down,
won't be a major power after the Chinese,
the yellow peril the Yanks call them, but you
or I can't say this nowadays, no I wouldn't,
can you imagine trying to write that lingo?
More like crayon drawings, also they may not,
probably will not keep the peace with the rest,
the other countries, comes down to envy,
and to ambition. These Asians, you gotta,
no doubt, gotta give them that, they got drive!
Colleague says Bertelsmann has a new book out,
explains it all, preview clearly favours the Tropics,
which means, are you ready, Australia, well,
I did see Crocodile Dundee, or Dundy,
good show though part two wasn't up to snuff.
They got razorbacks there, in the outback,
big as hippos, will tear down your house,
slice you first from crotch to chin and then
eat you, boots and all, gotta see that, best,
so says Frank, to take a guide at first, pay
is in beer, they drink it ice cold as well,
got refrigeration everywhere, in the outback,
no water but plenty of beer, ladies called sheilas.
And the black fellows are now tolerated,
they throw a mean boomerang if you don't,
kangaroos and koalas, then they got wombats
and on the coast you'd be wary of the crocs,
saw that Steve Irwin show, poor fellow, died
in such a crazy way, knew it would get him,
took chances like a crazy Englishman.
Well, here I am now, getting all warmed up,
at a miserable 7 degrees, and wet streets,
and guess what, there it is, the book, do you,
would you believe my eyes, man, what luck,
it's like God himself speaking to me, Reinhard,
you must go, it's a sign from the one who did,
who created that place Down Under they call it,
Auswandern - Ein Traum, no it is no dream, Sir,
yes I will take a plastic bag if it is still free,
bookclub I will pass this time, really, let me,
in all confidence, tell you a little secret, Sir,
I won't be here long enough to use the privileges,
no bookclub in Europe for me, ever again!
Good Day Sir!
The bridge is collapsing,
im lossing my grip,
I can't hold on anymore,
I'm just getting sick,
Sick of your face,
Sick of your voice,
Sick of all these people who think they know,
No one can really understand,
I'm so sick,
Im sick of you,
I try not to look at your face,
it's haunting me,
I'm Sick of the ways,
The ways things were ment to be,
Sick of holding all the feelings inside,
I'm so sick of being happy for people,
When they don't even care,
Im just sick of you,
And one day,
Your going to need me,
just like i needed you,
But im going to ditch you,
Just like you ditched me,
Im so sick,
so sick of you,
I am sick,
Sick of this pain,
Wishing my life will fade away,
Away to the nothingness I have become,
Always in and out of trouble,
Knowing how this hurts my dad,
Knowing that he is in pain,
Watching him cry,
It hurts me,
Watching him suffer,
Makes mee want to say how sorry I am,
I am sorry for all the things I have done to you,
I know my sorry's aren't good enough,
Yet I am willing to make it up to you,
I am sick,
Sick of this life,
Knowing how hard this must be to see my dad in pain,
How I wich I can take it all back.
I’m sick and dying slowly,
But don’t say goodbye to me.
Because i don’t wanna think of leaving you,
But inevitably i will when my life is through.
The cancer’s quickly spreading through out my body and mind,
And we are also losing our special bind.
The chemo’s left me tiered and week,
With hardly enough energy to speak.
But i hope you can let go of me and dry your eyes,
When i finally lose the fight and meet my demise.
Because i want you to be happy and free,
Living the rest of your life without grieving me.
i'm sick
of being myself
i'm sick
of my own flesh
i'm sick
of  crying everyday
i'm sick
even today
i'm sick
of being alone
i'm sick
of seeing the blood that i own
i'm sick and tired of this madness
this lonesliness
darkness
and selfeshness
i'm sick
just sick
and no one can  change that..
the further I sweep it under the rug,
the more this cancer builds walls inside-out.
the more I fear myself, or starve myself of
essential self-appreciation, or cringe, or
drive blindly through the rising twisting roads,
the more the grease collects. the puddle of
grease and sweat too big to step around.
the less I check and balance, and the more
I deny or delay or forget, the deeper I sink,
which equates incompetence. which means
failure. failure ensures low moods
and low moods ensure a cold blanket of loneliness.
the taller the tree becomes in his journey to the sky,
the more ambition I lose to conquer him
and get there first.
the urge fades and I decline dangerously.
the more I dropp anchor or wear masks,
or stubbornly decide not to pick up the phone
or leave the house,
the longer I'll stay where nobody is.
the worse my beautiful original features seem.
the more I'll feel neglected.
more and more, I'll be killing myself.
the more I follow advice and the arrows,
the less independent I become.
dependence ensures cling and cling leads to conflict.
the more I pray, the better. I'll start feeling better
if I dust off the past and ride on the crest of progress.
the more dreams I have of you,
the less I trust myself to stand up in confidence
while I grow more needy. more tragically dismal.
more accustomed to panic as I strive hopelessly
to accept and comprehend and live with
and sit still around the fact
that you can't always be near me.
Sick 'I cannot go to school today,'
Said little Peggy Ann McKay.
'I have the measles and the mumps,
A gash, a rash and purple bumps.
My mouth is wet, my throat is dry,
I'm going blind in my right eye.
My tonsils are as big as rocks,
I've counted sixteen chicken pox
And there's one more - that's seventeen,
And don't you think my face looks green?
My leg is cut, my eyes are blue -
It might be instamatic flu.
I cough and sneeze and gasp and choke,
I'm sure that my left leg is broke -
My hip hurts when I move my chin,
My belly button's caving in,
My back is wrenched, my ankle's sprained,
My 'pendix pains each time it rains.
My nose is cold, my toes are numb,
I have a sliver in my thumb.
My neck is stiff, my spine is weak,
I hardly whisper when I speak.
My tongue is filling up my mouth,
I think my hair is falling out.
My elbow's bent, my spine ain't straight,
My temperature is one-o-eight.
My brain is shrunk, I cannot hear,
There is a hole inside my ear.
I have a hangnail, and my heart is -
what? What's that? What's that you say?
You say today is ... Saturday?
G'bye, I'm going out to play!'
How quiet
It is in this sick room
Where on the bed
A silent woman lies between two lovers-
Life and Death,
And all three covered with a sheet of pain.
Sick is
Not a sick...
With smile of
Men and women...
Smile...
With kill  your sick...
With out smile...
you are good sick patient...!
Here I come
Extend your ridicule
Expose me
To the group
And get your money's worth
On my knees
The spotlight exploits me
My head sinks
Inside my hands
While tears fill the cracks
And as I sit here shipwrecked
I drown in emotions
In waves of crimson rage
and ebon misery
But waiting long to be saved
I swim from no man's land
Drifting far from the shore
And out of your net's reach
The riptide
Of non-conformity
Swaying me
Back And forth
Has made me sick of you
Don't save me
Save yourselves
And how shall we trace the
trajectory of a lungless scream
coming out of a slit throat?
Time was overrun by gnostic
resentment in absolute mind.
The fury of a gathering food riot:
do you hear the memorial rising,
rising –
on bones of hunger, swollen eyelids?
Soon they will meet on the bellies.
The fumigation starts, of lies
a bactericidal, to wipe out the germs
in dumb minds. The prognosis failed,
life moves in a tunnel, absent
and present!
The tears I shed
The thoughts that torment my head
All over you
You made it so very clear
I am not the one for you
Your a pathetic excuse of a person
If I had one wish
I would be serving your head on a dish
Blaming everyone else for the way you are
POINTLESS
Thats what giving my heart to you was
I am a Cleaner
With an itchy trigger finger
Dreams turned to nightmares
As time goes by
I know I will heal emotionally
However
Duct tape, pliers, and you tied to a chair
Thats what I really want to see
You are a sorry short, middle aged, overweight waste
Karma is slow in her ways
Step in my path.
and you will see how evil I can really be
You are an evil bitch and you belong in jail.
I will not rest until you are locked in a cell.
I learned what you're doing and it really disgusts me.
You've been sleeping with men just to give them HIV.
A man gave you aids so now you're giving other men aids too.
These men are innocent, what the hell is wrong with you? !
You consider this to be revenge and you must be stopped.
I can't wait to get home because I'm going to call the cops.
i come sick wit it
spittin sh#t u aint heard of
like fu#k the military
the government
fu#kin can surves us
i swerve up, in a caddy
on datens haters be haten
fu#k heaven, we roll wit satin
we be blazen, indo roll up the window
your lettin smoke out
i aint done till im choked out
blow out a fat hit go get dro now
i blow out ya chest so dont test
dont temp me unload clips till there empty
take your woman im a pimp g
that right im pimpin
pistol whippin, dippin, an sipin liqour
fu#kin with me u die quicker
now m well adapted to this sick world
cruel world
wild world
after being shattered
after being crushed
after being cheated
left with no other option
accepting the things the way they are
m adapted to this sick world
selfish world
insane world
after being frustated
after being alone
after being tortured
i gave up
accepting the people the way they are
m adapted to this sick world
SO MANY SICK FRIENDS NOW
So many sick friends now
So much pain and dying-
One day I will grow young again
And all the world with me
And we will have hope and dreams again
As we did once-
And we will laugh again and again
At our own
And all the world’s
endless nonsense.
Stella is sick, and in that sickbed lies
Sweetness, which breathes and pants as oft as she:
And Grace, sick too, such fine conclusions tries
That Sickness brags itself best grac'd to be.
Beauty is sick, but sick in so fair guise
That is that paleness Beauty's white we see,
And Joy, which is inseparate from those eyes,
Stella now learns (strange case) to weep in thee.
Love moves thy pain, and like a faithful page,
As thy looks stir, runs up and down to make
All folks press'd at thy will thy pain t'assuage.
Nature with care sweats for her darling's sake,
Knowing worlds pass, ere she enough can find
Of such heav'n stuff, to clothe so heav'nly mind.
I am so sick of the cold weather
I am so sick of the winter
The joyous new year revellers were making lots of noise
And at midnight they sang and cheered and fireworks lit the skies
But one teenager with heaving guts perhaps from too much beer
Was spewing on the side walk at the birth of a new year.
Too drunk for to be merry and too sick to enjoy
The new year celebrations and to bid the old goodbye
Perhaps she spent her new year hung over feeling fuzzy in the head
With very little energy recovering in her bed.
Her body had rejected some of the poison she had taken in
And she could have chose a better way for her new year to begin
A young woman in her late teens and at the age of choice
And for over indulgence one might say there is a price.
The biggest party of any year for all to celebrate
And even strangers greeted me with a happy new year mate
And lots of new year revellry and happiness and joy
And smiles and mirth and laughter were in plentiful supply.
But I saw one young woman quite oblivious to it all
Bent over on the side walk by a brick garden wall
With her heaving guts expelling some of the poison she had taken in
She might have chosen a more pleasant way for her new year to begin.
When first my old, old love I knew,
My bosom welled with joy;
My riches at her feet I threw;
I was a love-sick boy!
No terms seemed too extravagant
Upon her to employ -
I used to mope, and sigh, and pant,
Just like a love-sick boy!
But joy incessant palls the sense;
And love unchanged will cloy,
And she became a bore intense
Unto her love-sick boy?
With fitful glimmer burnt my flame,
And I grew cold and coy,
At last, one morning, I became
Another's love-sick boy!
EXAMPLE often proves of sov'reign use;
At other times it cherishes abuse;
'Tis not my purpose, howsoe'er, to tell
Which of the two I fancy to excel.
Some will conceive the Abbess acted right,
While others think her conduct very light
Be that as 'twill, her actions right or wrong,
I'll freely give a license to my tongue,
Or pen, at all events, and clearly show,
By what some nuns were led to undergo,
That flocks are equally of flesh and blood,
And, if one passes, hundreds stem the flood,
To follow up the course the first has run,
And imitate what t'other has begun.
When Agnes passed, another sister came,
And ev'ry nun desired to do the same;
At length the guardian of the flock appeared,
And likewise passed, though much at first she feared.
The tale is this, we purpose to relate;
And full particulars we now will state.
AN Abbess once a certain illness had,
Chlorosis named, which oft proves very bad,
Destroys the rose that decorates the cheek,
And renders females languid, pale, and weak.
Our lady's face was like a saint's in Lent:
Quite wan, though otherwise it marked content.
The faculty, consulted on her case,
And who the dire disorder's source would trace,
At length pronounced slow fever must succeed,
And death inevitably be decreed,
Unless;--but this unless is very strange
Unless indeed she some way could arrange;
To gratify her wish, which seemed to vex,
And converse be allowed with t'other sex:
Hippocrates, howe'er, more plainly speaks,
No circumlocutory phrase he seeks.
O JESUS! quite abashed the Abbess cried;
What is it?--fy!--a man would you provide?
Yes, they rejoined, 'tis clearly what you want,
And you will die without a brisk gallant;
One truly able will alone suffice;
And, if not such, take two we would advise.
This still was worse, though, if we rightly guess,
'Twas by her wished, durst she the truth confess.
But how the sisterhood would see her take
Such remedies and no objection make?
Shame often causes injury and pain;
And ills concealed bring others in their train.
SAID sister Agnes, Madam, take their word;
A remedy like this would be absurd,
If, like old death, it had a haggard look,
And you designed to get by hook or crook.
A hundred secrets you retain at ease;
Can one so greatly shock and you displease?--
You talk at random, Agnes, she replied;
Now, would you for the remedy decide,
Upon your word, if you were in my place?--
Yes, madam, said the nun, and think it grace;
Still more I'd do, if necessary thought;
Your health, by me, would ev'ry way be sought,
And, if required by you to suffer this,
Not one around would less appear remiss;
Sincere affection for you I have shown,
And my regard I'll ever proudly own.
A THOUSAND thanks the Abbess gave her friend;
The doctors said:--no use for them to send;
Throughout the convent sad distress appeared;
When Agnes, who to sage advice adhered,
And was not thought the weakest head around,
A kinder soul perhaps could not be found,
Said to the sisterhood,--What now retains
Our worthy Abbess, and her will enchains,
Is nothing but the shame of pow'rs divine,
Or else, to what's prescribed she would resign.
Through charity will no one take the lead,
And, by example, get her to proceed?
THE counsel was by ev'ry one approved,
And commendation through the circle moved.
IN this design not one, nor grave, nor old,
Nor young, nor prioress, at all seemed cold;
Notes flew around, and friends of worth and taste,
The black, the fair, the brown, appeared in haste;
The number was not small, our records say,
Not (what might be) appearance of delay,
But all most anxious seemed the road to show,
And what the Abbess feared, at once to know;
None more sincerely 'mong the nuns desired,
That shame should not prevent what was required.
Nor that the Abbess should, within her soul,
Retain what might injuriously control.
NO sooner one among the flock had made
The step, of which the Abbess was afraid,
But other sisters followed in the train:--
Not one behind consented to remain;
Each forward pressed, in dread to be the last;
At length, from prejudice the Abbess passed;
To such examples she at last gave way,
And, to a youth, no longer offered nay.
THE operation o'er, her lily face
Resumed the rose, and ev'ry other grace.
O remedy divine, prescription blessed!
Thy friendly aid to numbers stands confessed;
The friends of thousands, friend of nature too;
The friend of all, except where honour 's due.
This point of honour is another ill,
In which the faculty confess no skill.
WHAT ills in life! what mis'ries dire around,
While remedies so easy may be found!
I
In days when men had joy of war,
A God of Battles sped each mortal jar;
The peoples pledged him heart and hand,
From Israel's land to isles afar.
II
His crimson form, with clang and chime,
Flashed on each murk and murderous meeting-time,
And kings invoked, for rape and raid,
His fearsome aid in rune and rhyme.
III
On bruise and blood-hole, scar and seam,
On blade and bolt, he flung his fulgid beam:
His haloes rayed the very gore,
And corpses wore his glory-gleam.
IV
Often an early King or Queen,
And storied hero onward, knew his sheen;
'Twas glimpsed by Wolfe, by Ney anon,
And Nelson on his blue demesne.
V
But new light spread. That god's gold nimb
And blazon have waned dimmer and more dim;
Even his flushed form begins to fade,
Till but a shade is left of him.
VI
That modern meditation broke
His spell, that penmen's pleadings dealt a stroke,
Say some; and some that crimes too dire
Did much to mire his crimson cloak.
VII
Yea, seeds of crescive sympathy
Were sown by those more excellent than he,
Long known, though long contemned till then -
The gods of men in amity.
VIII
Souls have grown seers, and thought out-brings
The mournful many-sidedness of things
With foes as friends, enfeebling ires
And fury-fires by gaingivings!
IX
He scarce impassions champions now;
They do and dare, but tensely--pale of brow;
And would they fain uplift the arm
Of that faint form they know not how.
X
Yet wars arise, though zest grows cold;
Wherefore, at whiles, as 'twere in ancient mould
He looms, bepatched with paint and lath;
But never hath he seemed the old!
XI
Let men rejoice, let men deplore.
The lurid Deity of heretofore
Succumbs to one of saner nod;
The Battle-god is god no more.
A lion sunk by time's decay,
Too feeble grown to hunt his prey,
Observed his fatal hour draw nigh:
He drooped and laid him down to die.
There came by chance a savage boar,
Who trembled oft to hear him roar,
But when he saw him thus distressed
He tore and gored his royal breast.
A bull came next (ungen'rous foe),
Rejoiced to find him fall'n so low,
And with his horny-armed head
He aimed at once to strike him dead, -
He strikes, he wounds, he shocks in vain,
The lion still conceals his pain.
At length a base inglorious ass,
Who saw so many insults pass,
Came up and kicked him in the side:
'Twas this that raised the lion's pride.
He roused, and thus he spoke at length,
For indignation gave him strength:
Thou sorry, stupid, sluggish creature,
Disgrace and shame and scorn of nature!
You saw how well I could dispense
With blows from beasts of consequence!
They dignified the wounds they gave;
For none complain who feel the brave.
But you, the lowest of all brutes,
How ill your face with courage suits!
What dullness in thy looks appears!
I'd rather far (by heav'n 'tis true)
Expire by these than live by you:
A kick from thee is double death -
I curse thee with my dying breath!
The Moral
Rebukes are easy from our betters,
From men of quality and letters;
But when low dunces will affront,
What man alive can stand the brunt?
(From Lenau.)
So late, and yet a nightingale?
Long since have dropp'd the blossoms pale,
The summer fields are ripening,
And yet a sound of spring?
O tell me, didst thou come to hear,
Sweet Spring, that I should die this year;
And call'st across from the far shore
To me one greeting more?
My impoverished muse, alas! What have you for me this morning?
Your empty eyes are stocked with nocturnal visions,
In your cheek's cold and taciturn reflection,
I see insanity and horror forming.
The green succubus and the red urchin,
Have they poured you fear and love from their urns?
The nightmare of a mutinous fist that despotically turns,
Does it drown you at the bottom of a loch beyond searching?
I wish that your breast exhaled the scent of sanity,
That your womb of thought was not a tomb more frequently
And that your Christian blood flowed around a buoy that was rhythmical,
Like the numberless sounds of antique syllables,
Where reigns in turn the father of songs,
Phoebus, and the great Pan, the harvest sovereign.
Translated by William A. Sigler
Submitted by Ryan McGuire
O Rose, thou art sick!
The invisible worm
That flies in the night,
In the howling storm,
Has found out thy bed
Of crimson joy:
And his dark secret love
Does thy life destroy.
Hold hard, Ned! Lift me down once more, and lay me in the shade.
Old man, you've had your work cut out to guide
Both horses, and to hold me in the saddle when I swayed,
All through the hot, slow, sleepy, silent ride.
The dawn at "Moorabinda" was a mist rack dull and dense,
The sun-rise was a sullen, sluggish lamp;
I was dozing in the gateway at Arbuthnot's bound'ry fence,
I was dreaming on the Limestone cattle camp.
We crossed the creek at Carricksford, and sharply through the haze,
And suddenly the sun shot flaming forth;
To southward lay "Katawa", with the sand peaks all ablaze,
And the flushed fields of Glen Lomond lay to north.
Now westward winds the bridle-path that leads to Lindisfarm,
And yonder looms the double-headed Bluff;
From the far side of the first hill, when the skies are clear and calm,
You can see Sylvester's woolshed fair enough.
Five miles we used to call it from our homestead to the place
Where the big tree spans the roadway like an arch;
'Twas here we ran the dingo down that gave us such a chase
Eight years ago -- or was it nine? -- last March.
'Twas merry in the glowing morn among the gleaming grass,
To wander as we've wandered many a mile,
And blow the cool tobacco cloud, and watch the white wreaths pass,
Sitting loosely in the saddle all the while.
'Twas merry 'mid the blackwoods, when we spied the station roofs,
To wheel the wild scrub cattle at the yard,
With a running fire of stock whips and a fiery run of hoofs;
Oh! the hardest day was never then too hard!
Aye! we had a glorious gallop after "Starlight" and his gang,
When they bolted from Sylvester's on the flat;
How the sun-dried reed-beds crackled, how the flint-strewn ranges rang,
To the strokes of "Mountaineer" and "Acrobat".
Hard behind them in the timber, harder still across the heath,
Close beside them through the tea-tree scrub we dash'd;
And the golden-tinted fern leaves, how they rustled underneath;
And the honeysuckle osiers, how they crash'd!
We led the hunt throughout, Ned, on the chestnut and the grey,
And the troopers were three hundred yards behind,
While we emptied our six-shooters on the bushrangers at bay,
In the creek with stunted box-trees for a blind!
There you grappled with the leader, man to man, and horse to horse,
And you roll'd together when the chestnut rear'd;
He blazed away and missed you in that shallow water-course --
A narrow shave -- his powder singed your beard!
In these hours when life is ebbing, how those days when life was young
Come back to us; how clearly I recall
Even the yarns Jack Hall invented, and the songs Jem Roper sung;
And where are now Jem Roper and Jack Hall?
Ay! nearly all our comrades of the old colonial school,
Our ancient boon companions, Ned, are gone;
Hard livers for the most part, somewhat reckless as a rule,
It seems that you and I are left alone.
There was Hughes, who got in trouble through that business with the cards,
It matters little what became of him;
But a steer ripp'd up Macpherson in the Cooraminta yards,
And Sullivan was drown'd at Sink-or-swim;
And Mostyn -- poor Frank Mostyn -- died at last, a fearful wreck,
In the "horrors" at the Upper Wandinong,
And Carisbrooke, the rider, at the Horsefall broke his neck;
Faith! the wonder was he saved his neck so long!
Ah! those days and nights we squandered at the Logans' in the glen --
The Logans, man and wife, have long been dead.
Elsie's tallest girl seems taller than your little Elsie then;
And Ethel is a woman grown and wed.
I've had my share of pastime, and I've done my share of toil,
And life is short -- the longest life a span;
I care not now to tarry for the corn or for the oil,
Or for wine that maketh glad the heart of man.
For good undone, and gifts misspent, and resolutions vain,
'Tis somewhat late to trouble. This I know --
I should live the same life over, if I had to live again;
And the chances are I go where most men go.
The deep blue skies wax dusky, and the tall green trees grow dim,
The sward beneath me seems to heave and fall;
And sickly, smoky shadows through the sleepy sunlight swim,
And on the very sun's face weave their pall.
Let me slumber in the hollow where the wattle blossoms wave,
With never stone or rail to fence my bed;
Should the sturdy station children pull the bush-flowers on my grave,
I may chance to hear them romping overhead.
I don't suppose I shall though, for I feel like sleeping sound,
That sleep, they say, is doubtful. True; but yet
At least it makes no difference to the dead man underground
What the living men remember or forget.
Enigmas that perplex us in the world's unequal strife,
The future may ignore or may reveal;
Yet some, as weak as water, Ned, to make the best of life,
Have been to face the worst as true as steel.
The sick wind moans, moans the sick wind
There mystery lies in its every moan:
It tells all and nothing yet it tells
How careful hides it the secret in its breast.
The old oak hears the sick wind
And hearing it understands its own
And weeps the old oak without a cry.
There is going to be an end of violence.
With a silencing of disturbed minds burned.
Increased mental illnesses will afflict.
Evidence of that,
Now exists.
This living Earth is sick of conflicts.
And those 'experiments' that leech upon it!
Many are trying to find signs to depict the end.
And the ones in worship of the falsities of deities...
Have symbolized them in flesh,
And not in 'spirits' that oversees all of their misdeeds!
There is going to be an end of violence.
With a silencing of disturbed minds burned.
Increased mental illnesses will afflict.
Evidence of that,
Now exists.
And yet there are those...
Believing they command and control,
The outcome!
Charms, that call down the moon from out her sphere,
On this sick youth work your enchantments here!
Bind up his senses with your numbers, so
As to entrance his pain, or cure his woe.
Fall gently, gently, and a-while him keep
Lost in the civil wilderness of sleep:
That done, then let him, dispossess'd of pain,
Like to a slumbering bride, awake again.
O Youth and Joy, your airy tread
Too lightly springs by Sorrow's bed,
Your keen eye-glances are too bright,
Too restless for a sick man's sight.
Farewell; for one short life we part:
I rather woo the soothing art,
Which only souls in sufferings tried
Bear to their suffering brethren's side.
Where may we learn that gentle spell?
Mother of Martyrs, thou canst tell!
Thou, who didst watch thy dying Spouse
With pierced hands and bleeding brows,
Whose tears from age to age are shed
O'er sainted sons untimely dead,
If e'er we charm a soul in pain,
Thine is the key-note of our strain.
How sweet with thee to lift the latch,
Where Faith has kept her midnight watch,
Smiling on woe:  with thee to kneel,
Where fixed, as if one prayer could heal,
She listens, till her pale eye glow
With joy, wild health can never know,
And each calm feature, ere we read,
Speaks, silently, thy glorious Creed.
Such have I seen:  and while they poured
Their hearts in every contrite word,
How have I rather longed to kneel
And ask of them sweet pardon's seal;
How blessed the heavenly music brought
By thee to aid my faltering thought!
"Peace" ere we kneel, and when we cease
To pray, the farewell word is, "Peace."
I came again:  the place was bright
"With something of celestial light" -
A simple Altar by the bed
For high Communion meetly spread,
Chalice, and plate, and snowy vest. -
We ate and drank:  then calmly blest,
All mourners, one with dying breath,
We sate and talked of Jesus' death.
Once more I came:  the silent room
Was veiled in sadly-soothing gloom,
And ready for her last abode
The pale form like a lily showed,
By Virgin fingers duly spread,
And prized for love of summer fled.
The light from those soft-smiling eyes
Had fleeted to its parent skies.
O soothe us, haunt us, night and day,
Ye gentle Spirits far away,
With whom we shared the cup of grace,
Then parted; ye to Christ's embrace,
We to this lonesome world again,
Yet mindful of th' unearthly strain
Practised with you at Eden's door,
To be sung on, where Angels soar,
With blended voices evermore.
i was thinking about a lot of things
messy things like
a pool of thread being played
by the kitten at the
living room and the dogs
were flying kites
the mice are taking all the
cheese,
i was thinking about a lot of poems
with gentle faces
wearing straw hats on the beach,
a lot of stories with eyelashes
curling
and lips lusciously
biting each other,
when i was sick they tell me i was sick
my mind is sick
and i am not aware about the sensitivity
of the situation, which i always
consider
as nothing but another form of
temporary
sensuality,
i was thinking about
my favorite dish
and those who dine with me
their hands
inside my pants.
Mommy's sick in bed today.
Doctor says she has the flu.
Sissy's got a stuffy nose
and she might get it, too.
When Mommy's sick it makes us sad
she doesn't feel so good.
She's having juice and medicine
like the doctor said she should.
It's not the same when Mommy's sick,
our hugs are all sick, too,
and kisses for our boo-boo's
also have the flu.
Our sads are even sadder
so our happy's aren't as glad
and when we're being naughty,
that even feels more bad.
Let's get her better, Sissy!
Get some more juice in her
'cause I remember something else,
ewwww... Daddy's cooking dinner...
WITH AGE THE SICK AND SUFFERING MULTIPLY
With age the sick and suffering multiply
Also, the dead.
We carry with us
More and more sad stories
More and more pain
Of people lost.
We live in a world of prayer for them
And sadness at their not being here.
We do not grow old alone
But with all those we have cared for.
Life is not easy,
And we go on as we go on.
The well, the strong,
Will never understand the sick, the broken,
Till the Great Deomocrat comes.
It is easy to pretend that we do not hear the cold wind
because it is not felt upon our necks.
Still the sound persists
Though reality denies sight its form.
To summon energy to fight or to surrender,
I would not judge the cause.
But even in defeat this earth can be sweet
And leaving it no easy task.
Candlelight. Always candlelight
We smile at the delicate eccentricity of our Friday folly
Our working week worked, still you court reflections.
And still, for the sake of your smile, I embroider the truth
Crafting my daytime drudgery into a compelling drama.
Comedic, tragic and teasing, I know that you know what is real
Yet in your eyes your enchantment is authentic and alluring
Lovingly and knowingly you liberate my penchant for amusing anecdotes
And in doing so my employ parallels the insipid and the inspiring
Strange bedfellows and, as I recall, such was once upon a time said of us.
Wine. Always a fine wine
We grin at the devilish extravagance we could ill-afford
Our working class veneer ajar to a shard of misplaced and, so you thought,
Secret snobbery, though I name dropp wines as others name dropp exotic holidays
For this is our weekly escape, our humble haven, nurtured with quirky formality,
We know our roles. I put down my case and loosen my tie to invite your culinary
Majesty through my veins as I place a kiss on your right cheek, the same cheek that you always offer. This is, I ponder, what you perceive to be your ‘Best Side’ and I smile as I see only two sides to your loveliness, your inside and your outside. I turn
t’wards the stairs and say, as I always say, “Be with you in a minute my lovely”
Silver. Always a breath on the silver.
We laugh at my Aladdin moment as I polish the cutlery in the same timid and tender way I would dress our children’s playground grazes as if I too was feeling their pain. The table plan, my table plan, fastidious and engraved to memory, is arranged with orderly angles and sterile lines.  Did I ever ask you if it pleased you? Because, only now, can I concede the absence of any panache for the eye-catching that you could have so graciously and so effortlessly sprinkled upon the settings.   The likelihood is I never did ask and, as is my want, I will have assumed that such precision and attention to detail would have impressed you. And as I see you tonight, in this light, so ageless and timeless I feel an overwhelming urge to say sorry.
Napkins. Always napkins.
We marvel at our blessings ‘neath willowy dancing flame. Our memoirs modest,
Our pleasures treasured and tonight, as ever, Friday ours.
Our children flown and, with lives of their own, we turn to pictures. Leafing through albums I carefully and, unsurprisingly, catalogued, I wonder. Did you ever feel the urge to blithely launch our lifetime memories skyward and gaily sit amongst their random landings? But sweet flower that you are you suffer and indulge my symmetry.
And now we are weary and I have talked too much so sleep safe my lovely for so shall I.
On this the fortieth anniversary of our marriage
And the fourth anniversary of your death.
for my  former housemates who are now in their chosen fields,
ka roland barce, michael, gary, ka noel plaza, ka jerry ablon, ka joel salas, ka elmer balatayo.ka dongdong falcon, ka reverend romulo villanon, ka jun batto amd bonsing (deceased)
Stillness made peculiar in this avenue
vehicles were frozen
meters away
heading to my tenement
I didn't know yet the cause
I knew the effect - heavy traffic
a couple of minutes
what an unfamiliar objects had been
chasing before me
like an emergency 911 ambulance
from disastrous accident
and chasing before me
like a hungry vampire too greedy
to suck my blood for revenge
and proliferate in numbers
they worn silver feet
marching slantwisely
not by platoons but by companies
not by companies but by battalions
I ran as a freed cheetah
catching antelope for heavy dinner
until I was saved beneath the left
rusty roof on my rented home
exhausted as I placed the plastic
tab pointing the ceiling pipe nozzle
now the silver feet are accumulated inside
the huge rain container
ready to wash my muddy shoes
and stained white shirt
An everywhere of silver,
With ropes of sand
To keep it from effacing
The track called land.
It's very hard to pronounce and the prince's name is Legerdemain.
His patchy wallet contains a picture of Madonna and full of rubbish.
He is not a cherub it seems.
The scars of his wrist a handiwork like tattoos of different handcuffs he wore.
His Pidgin English and the moisten heart
Does somebody could understand?
Then he will be surprised.
He is a pickpocket and one day he found his deceased mother's photo
In a stolen wallet and he said goodbye to his sorrowful career.
884
As Everywhere of Silver
With Ropes of Sand
To keep it from effacing
The Track called Land.
Only an ugly silver bullet                                               Can kill a pretty soul because                                         The other nasty bullets don't kill,                                       Only a silver bullet can perish                                            An innocent soul somewhere on earth,                                     Only a superstitious silver bullet                                          Can turn a sweet soul into a deadly one,                                 Only a bitter death comes with the silver                                 Bullet anytime, anywhere, and everywhere,                                 All other bullets are rusty and fake except                               The silver one which kills immediately an                                  Innocent refugee or an innocent soul somewhere, and                      In a word, a nasty silver bullet can turn the                                Good soul into a dead soul immediately anywhere.
The milk has the hidden butter,
And this is a known factor,
But only when it's churned,
Up floats the butter turned.
The mind has the God hidden,
Amidst all the thoughts ridden,
But only when it turns clean
His vision inside can be seen.
A pure mind is always pure,
Despite a noble one falls poor,
Like a conch shell burnt in fire,
Still it remains white forever.
A diamond is the diamond best,
Even if it lies in a heap of dust,
And so shines a lotus found
That grows in a muddy pond.
The pure gold is heated up well,
Hammered before it gets its pull,
And twisted into different shapes
Of ornaments kept in shops.
The ups and downs we face,
In our life long endless race,
Are the God's golden efforts
So our Souls live in comforts.
Face any trouble with a smile,
For you're sure in the next mile,
To step over diamond or gold,
To brighten up your life, behold.
the silver platter is what your family gives you
your father makes it and you mother polishes it
and you are given what you need
in your life
some fruits and bread and meat and water
that you need in your journey when they start sending you away and
when they finally leave you
as what this world demands, the usual flow of life and the fading
death, and you find yourself still
thinking and coping and running and stopping and resting and running and walking and curling and stretching what
is all there,
then everything is consumed, the silver platter has nothing, tarnished
and you begin to worry
what used to be is not anymore,
you think life ends just like that,
no
reality bites now, like a snake, or a rabid dog, and you despise the
silver platter
its lasting effect on you, how it made you weak and unthinking,
complacent
and unable to grow your trees and eat the fruits
to raise your goats and eat their meat
to live your own life
and be strong yourself in the darkness that comes
when you still want to play
it is not too late, take the silver platter and throw it away
or bury it
lest another one comes and takes it and be another victim
of its temporary glow that almost killed you
She'd sent me stars, two handfuls in that myst'ry package.
And when I opened  to unpack they came like swarms
of silver insects, bright and ready to invade.
A silver touch, I thought, the carpet was a-glitter,
I picked them up, so slowly, one by one
with lingering movements, 'cause her hands had known them.
There was a storm that came, without much warning.
It took my love and whirled it into spheres
that could not nourish it and breathing had to cease.
While I was searching for the force of evil
that sent this devil of a murderer  and  thief,
all other life went on without consideration
of devastation that had plunged in misery
my very soul, its spirit had been breached.
Just like the hurt that tends to linger,
in nerves of amputated limbs of man,
this phantom pain can safely be dismissed.
It would take time, I knew  to lose the memories,
and storms are really, don't you know, just acts of God.
Back to my reading now, which had been pushed
onto back burners, there was never any time .
When I perceived the slightest, softest touch upon my leg,
a star had fallen on  a wound that she had healed.
This silver, little, recalcitrant and noticeable,
this twinkling and obnoxious bitty star,
it did just sit there, twinkling like a hooligan.
Until two teardrops fell upon it from above.
This story ends here as it has not been determined,
if too much time has gone for any hope of rescue.
It is well known that love must, like any living matter,
maintain a breath or face a certain, final death.
What if, I ask with anxious trepidation,
a surrogate has been up in those clouds.
Could it just be the life of love was spared?
And would you tell me, show me, kindly, then,
I plead with all you Gods,  by Dawn's first light?
I am standing in the cemetery at Byrds, Texas.
What did Judy say? 'God-forsaken is beautiful, too.'
A very old man who has cancer on his face and takes
care of the cemetery, is raking a grave in such a
manner as to almost (polish it like a piece of silver.
Margaret Daalman,52, a woman that is Dutch,
Margaret, outside her insatiable appetite, she didn't complain to much.
Ms. Daalman had an unusual  craving for many utensils.
She appeared to favor them just as the witch had,
To consume many Hansels and Gretels.
She had consumed flatware in her body, in all 78 pieces,
Enough to serve 34 settings without the knives, in her digestive tract.
In fact,
Doctors diagnosed her with pica disease.
The metals, such as iron zinc,
-had attributed to her hunger pangs for years.
Margaret tolerated her pain, I think,
Though it most likely brought her tears.
Finally, she couldn't take anymore and had to have surgery.
Among the flatware taken out of body were forks and spoons.
She ate some of them in morning, at lunch, at dinner,
During the day and quarter, half, three quarter, and new moons.
Lucky she didn't have them pass,
For it would be an Amsterdam it, pain in the ass.
10-31-09
Those were the days of toil, turmoil;
Those were the years of learning joy;
Those were the times of challenges;
Those were moments, we can’t forget!
Those were the happiest days in life;
Those were the times of great resolve;
Those were the years we loved the most;
Those were the dreams that came so true!
Our Management was great from start;
Our teachers taught ‘medical art’;
Our college then looked not so vast;
Oh, how we miss the life that’s past!
And we were just a little batch!
We turned out to be ‘prized a catch’!
Our college life can’t come again;
Our teachers put us in right lane.
We did not have much capital;
We did not have own hospital;
We saw few patients in the ward;
Nevertheless, we worked just hard.
And God had blessed us for His part!
We smile and laugh with good a heart;
We love our teachers who taught us;
They shared their knowledge without fuss!
God, bless our Doctor Teachers dear!
’Tis nice to see them still, so near;
They sacrificed in nobler ways;
God grant them health and peaceful days!
Fondly dedicated to the Management, Teachers
And students of the First Batch of Medicos of
PSGIMS&R, CBE, ‘Silver Jubilee Meet’
Copyright by Dr John Celes 30-09-2010
If the days are long and dark is the night, it is not worth crying
For, Every Cloud has a Silver Lining
If the faith is low, making you low
Stop wait a step or two, to get up and flow.
Soar as an eagle and spread your wings
Take in your stride wat life brings
You’re one in a million, keep your fire burning
For, Every Cloud has a Silver Lining.
There is darkness all around,
It’s only silence no sound,
In the black it looks like,
There won’t be day but only night,
But wait soon will come the sun’s rays,
As after the darkest of nights is the brightest of days.
All doors are tightly locked,
Can’t be heard when knocked,
No where to go,
Nowhere to run,
Only wait in silence,
For death to come,
But don’t let hope die,
For it comes only when you try,
One door does open when all are shut,
Look for the open door get up.
No water far far away in desert sand,
No sign of life but only bare land,
It’s a bluff of eye, water’s sight,
There is nothing there that can cause delight,
But don’t give up and don’t dismiss,
The chance of finding a desert oasis.
Lead life with faith and hope,
Only then you can with tensions cope,
Think always tomorrow is shinning,
And that every cloud has a silver lining! !
The new trend is misery
The new look, reeks of despair...
The life-size Barbie doll
Her hair, now inky black
She shares her pain
Yes, she tells her story.
In all her madness
In all her ridiculous
Beautiful
Mad, fucked-up glory!
And, the people believe it.
They buy it, rather quick
Her mystique becomes the major seller
She is their topmost pick!
They, scream: "screw 'em all! "
"Hell, screw the rest! "
And, they buy her a dollhouse
In a neighborhood for the best.
Sunset Boulevard—
The best of the worst
And, they wrap her in satin
And, they rent her a Hearse.
Premature death, for this Queen
In such an arduous, persistent pain—
They knew just what they were doing;
They mastered this whole game!
They sold their souls
They did it, in vain
They peaked and heightened
Because, they'd paid for their fame!
They walked the streets
As we screamed their names!
They had taken all—
In the illuminati game!
And, now bored with their own lives
They crave to feel her pain
They have nothing that is real
She has nothing but her fame!
Hang her face—
On your wall
All her pain
The teardrops, they fall...
"She is stylish!
She breathes hate! "—
They bid, and they shout!
They scream prices!
They debate!
"Those tears are worth one million! "
"That pain is worth ten more! "
"And, why, I'd pay anything that they were asking! —
to capture the pained look on the face of that whore! "
Eventually,
She'll be removed from the wall
And, her face will be shoved—
In some overstuffed closet, down the hall.
When she becomes aged news—
When her face, it becomes rather lame
When they seek a new victim and archetype—
Another lost soul to play their game!
© 2010-2017 Glamour Shot. Nicole D'Settēmi
You met me
and I had given up.
You met me
and I took out the good china
from Grandma's hutch;
her gold-plated knives, forks and spoons
and the silver,
toasting you
that summer night
had both of us playing house.
I was the gourmet cook,
you were eating hearty
and wolfed down lustily my heart;
made me forget giving up
for giving it up
happily;
mostly from memory
and you were kind enough
not to notice
how awkwardly
and how long
my breathing took
to run to smooth.
It was the conversation
I believe
late into the night
that over-came me
re-mending those broken heart pieces
which laid themselves out carefully
on my dining room
table;
festooned
with grandma's
silver and gold-plated spoons.
We have gone on now through
paper, wood
and silver anniversaries;
golden
on our horizon;
nearing fifty years.
Thanks Grandma
for the silver-ware
and for him.
Sail on silver waves,
Reflecting purest of thoughts
- Summer be fruitful!
I heard youth's silver clarion call to Fate,
And looking forth beheld his flower-fair face,
Framed in his shining helmet as he sat
Sheathed in white armour, full of fearless grace,
Watching the coming of a threat'ning cloud,
Hueless and shapeless, that with stealthy pace
Was creeping towards him. 'O dear youth, beware!'
But answer made he none save laugh'd aloud.
'Beware,' I cried, 'it hides some hideous snare.'
At it he made—and vanished in the shroud,
Whence there broke forth, O Christ! so sharp a cry
Of dire defeat and mortal agony,
That all my blood ran back in every vein;
And when th' accursed blackness roll'd away,
Prone in the dust my lovely warrior lay,
Defiled, not dead; sore wounded—shamed—not slain;
His shining armour smirched with many a stain,
Filthy and foul, ne'er to be bright again.
When thou dost eat from off this plate,
I charge thee be thou temperate;
Unto thine elders at the board
Do thou sweet reverence accord;
And, though to dignity inclined,
Unto the serving-folk be kind;
Be ever mindful of the poor,
Nor turn them hungry from the door;
And unto God, for health and food
And all that in thy life is good,
Give thou thy heart in gratitude.
It leaves behind
Impression so kind
To bear in heart
For life time as an art
Love in later stage
That affects complete age
But clearly defines too
The role of divine power true
No body hunger
No personal anger
But still something short
To feel and honestly report
Yes something is felt
Fragrance from flower is smelt
There emerges wish for alliance
Close acquaintance and presence
I think it makes perfect combination
With solid bond and relation
Where two soul long for each other
He wishes long life for her
Not her wish alone
But gentle wind is blown
From direction unknown
Yet love and affection is known
Think about His presence
In every gesture with essence
Love sparks some light
Where person feels it right
No where you may find
“Love is kind and blind”
There is no color or cast
Yet that emerges very fast
The creed matters less
Faith is no where to trace
Thee is bright sun shine
There is happiness in silver line
In time of silver rain
The earth puts forth new life again,
Green grasses grow
And flowers lift their heads,
And over all the plain
The wonder spreads
Of Life,
Of Life,
Of life!
In time of silver rain
The butterflies lift silken wings
To catch a rainbow cry,
And trees put forth new leaves to sing
In joy beneath the sky
As down the roadway
Passing boys and girls
Go singing, too,
In time of silver rain When spring
And life
Are new.
My hair is laced with silver now
For time has seized my youth
I’ve lost the count of seasons passed -
The mirror shows the truth
With eyes that sleep in long repose
And limbs now void of tone -
The years have taken full their toll
As I am older grown
Yet in my heart there is a space
Where time does not accrue -
Where youthfulness does ever shine
And all the world is new
Where passion moves as much as when
My years were counted less -
And love does stir my weary soul
To sing with joyfulness
There too is set within my heart
A brightling star that shines -
And sweet the wine I’m sipping from
Fresh fruit upon the vines
So I will raise a glass to youth
And all the joy it brings -
Will sing a song to celebrate
The freedom of its wings
Oh, I will sing, yes I will sing
A song in praise of Spring
For Spring is ever in my heart
Such fortitude to bring
Then I will pray each morning that
Before I’m laid to rest
My soul shall ever be imbued
With youthful heart, so blessed
I am a Phantom of the opera
My breeze it unties the air
I have blue whispered vison's
And some very long silver hair
I dance down romance lane
That the Roses paved today
Glistening aromatic petals
Of a velvet-toned petal inlay
Whispers of private promises
Softly move throughout this space
Encounters of Origami lovers
Come at last face to face
While in the background
Playing a mystical mandolin
Pulsing out the melodies
Of where true love begins
Moving on over the ages
Together forever oh so rare
But not impossible at all
When it comes to being
Lady Silver Hair
If I were a nickel
Then I would like to be a dime
That could rise up to be a quarter
Of one fourth of a dollar
And if I were a dollar
I would wait to be a million
As that would be the sum equivalent
By which your love resides me
Yet I am just a penny
With idealistic prospects
That one day I shall triumph
And be your lucky silver dollar
Yet a penny can wish
Mother's hair has turned to silver
Her skin is all wrinkled and cold
But i'd never trade my mother
For the world and all its gold.  Yes her hair has turned to silver
Her face is all covered with lines
But there'll never be another
Like this gray haired mother of mine.  I think of all the hardships
I have caused her to bare
Then I can see the reasons
For the silver in her hair.  Mother's hair has turned to silver
And her hard working days are done
But there's still a smile on her face
And a love for everyone.
Just look at that sweet thang
wearing that tight silver wrap!
At a table nearby, he sat, inhaling
and exhaling smoke rings
eyes sparing not a minute
off that sweet southern bell.
yet keeping
not his desire tightly
under his cap, or his
dazzling red eyes off her
bell-shape bottom, and
salavating like pavlo's dog.
He grabs and held her tight!
Peeled off her shiny wrap-
completely exposing her milk
chocolate body.
Extending his trembling hands
to meet her offer, beads of moisture rising
like the morning dew, cooling his forehead.
The hard-eating chocoholic
grabbed silver-bell off the table,
tossed It into his waiting mouth,
circled it with his tongue, the
milk chocolate flowing down his chin
He smacked his lips in delight...:
"I'LL NEVER EAT ANOTHER CHOCOLATE KISS"
By
Almedia S. Knight or A.S.K
October 3,2006
(This poem was written at a writing workshop. A chocolate kiss was placed on the table as a prompt.)
Parliamentary democracy is shield to cheat
With smile on face when they collectively meet
Countless hours are wasted on stalling the business
The emergence of rowdy scene usually surface
It was one in million chances to succeed
The entire country is engulfed with cast and creed
No one has spared the Indian soil with their known greed
How could one stay aloof when country is still not freed?
People are disgruntled with such type of liberal democracy
It has firmly established people’s supremacy
Everything is done on the name of people’s welfare
In fact their interest is compromised as who takes care?
The pilferage and looting of public money is on large scale
The judiciary has almost become beyond reach and failed
Some of the selected cases only come in for public notice
It is really a sad show for world’s largest democracy of promises
No country can prosper if loop holes are applied
The public is not kept well informed and information is withheld
They have right to know what is going on in the holy land
Who is their real protector and stands as friend?
It is uncertain about effective diplomacy
Each party is consolidating its position and remains busy
National interest is not their concern but a compulsion
The whole of nation’s priority is utterly in confusion
We really hope that nations may survive
Some of the good steps are to be taken and revived
The country needs to protect poor and their interest
The politicians must come forward and serve to their best
Not in a silver casket cool with pearls
Or rich with red corundum or with blue,
Locked, and the key withheld, as other girls
Have given their loves, I give my love to you;
Not in a lovers'-knot, not in a ring
Worked in such fashion, and the legend plain—
Semper fidelis, where a secret spring
Kennels a drop of mischief for the brain:
Love in the open hand, no thing but that,
Ungemmed, unhidden, wishing not to hurt,
As one should bring you cowslips in a hat
Swung from the hand, or apples in her skirt,
I bring you, calling out as children do:
"Look what I have!—And these are all for you."
The look in your eyes, often tries
And succeeds in showing
you care
The old loved smile, familiar now
A hint of the thoughts we share
Twenty five years, a long time once
Now folded in the immediate past
Who would have thought,
on our wedding day
A quarter century would go so fast
The champagne flows, as it has
so often before
I touch wood and silently call
The fates to ensure
That they be kind and destiny mind
Where we go and how
This journey is not half-way yet
As we look back now
Let us celebrate, by all means
Out life together this while
But the best is yet to be
Say your eyes, your smile
The well is full
but it not  overflows
a draining mechanism
Keeps it  Leveled
the seed of the desert
stored inside the chest
sleep, does not germinate
but is ready to sprout
Awaits the the well leak!
lost love, bad memories
their defenses, pain
perfectly filed and labeled
with all sorts of excuses
The desert awaits for ruling
The body sick  the killer mind
the lack of love for inhumanity
false kisses, false words
so kindly treasured by impunity
Await the excuses ending
Oh! So many waits and
i need a flood of water
One seed to sprout
before someone touch one's soft silver string
Somewhere over the rainbow
beyond the naked eye. There's
a place one day my soul shall go.
On silver wings there I shall fly...
~
A kingdom is there, 'tis a heaven so
divine. The beauty and it's splendor
are beyond the the realms of space
and time.
~
In this heavenly light, dark clouds are
never there. Only dazzling clouds of
snowy white;  you can feel His love,
flowing through the air.
~
Somewhere over the rainbow, there
in yonder ski. When I am called to
go one day I'll tell my friends good by.
I'll find my way to heaven then and on
silver wings there I shall fly...
*********************************** *********
THE dark hour turns so slowly and so sweet,
The last still hour soft-fallen from the stars.
To-morrow I may kneel and touch thy feet,
O Rose of all Shiraz.
Lay wide thine amorous lattice to the south,
O Silver Rose, when roses breathe thy name,
And thou at dawn shalt feel upon thy mouth
The kiss I dared not claim.
Discrowned, dishonoured, reft of pride and power,
From the red battle where they hailed me lord,
O Silver Rose, O sweet Pomegranate Flower,
I turn me to their sword.
Life hath so held me to an empty part,
Life hath so snared me, bound and made me blind.
To-morrow I may rest upon thy heart,
For death shall prove more kind.
A quarter century has gone,
Since we had become medicos!
We can't believe the fleeting time
That changed us, and the world around.
Those years when we had joined this place,
It was not full of comforts much;
But now our Alma Mater is
A med-city within city!
How time has changed the landscape past!
New blocks have sprung up very fast;
A few teachers who taught us here
Remain slogging for students dear!
The knowledge they had shared with us
Has made us whatever we are;
We thank our teachers dear from heart,
Who lit the lamps in our lives then.
The campus brings us ev'rgreen thoughts
Of days when we were students here;
Despite the toil and struggles past,
We are better than what we'd thought!
We see our teachers somewhat old;
Whatev'r they told us was like gold;
We see our batchmates' kith and kin;
Our life on earth has been a win!
Our hearts are filled with emotions
Of pleasant thoughts of our stay here;
Though we may change akin fashions,
Our love for Alma Mater's clear!
We thank the Management, Trustees,
Who did so much to make us, Docs;
We thank those who helped treat disease,
And God, who made us priceless rocks!
Our job on earth is just begun;
We love to serve our sick brethren;
There are more good things to be done;
We want to make our earth, heaven!
Smile spread across features
As love traces a pathway
Finding itself inside my heart
Facades shatter as reality
Defrosts hopes left behind
Replacing with the heat
Of future grasped tightly
Eyes wide open in surprise
At the strength of this emotion
Uninvited but still welcomed
With abandoned pleasure
Whats gone cant be retrieved
But my eyes look to the horizon
Seeing that ripple of silver flowing
Forward to seek my soul out
Silence adrift with golden sunset.
Fallen shadows cast upon mankind.
Silent hopes and dreams of reality.
Cast forth with silver silence.
Set adrift upon milk fed shores.
Calling forth the inner shadows.
Setting the fallen idol in raptures.
Casting spells which reflect kindness.
Sunken fallen empty hollow ship.
Cast forth the raptures into silence.
Empty bottomless silence, king of hearts.
Fallen idols again sound to silver silence.
Beat upon the wind swept shores of life.
copyright 2005 POEWHIT
search: POEWHIT
JESUS SAVES
Silver coins piled on the table
just enough to get him through
nights of sleeping in the stable
working daylights with the crew.
He had killed the great Falzini
fastest gunman in the west,
first he blew away his wienie
next slug hit him in the chest.
He would hang if they did catch him
though the Sheriff was a drunk,
and the one who could just match him
had been taken from his bunk.
Suddenly, the horses heard him,
sneaking in just like a thief.
Half asleep it briefly stired him
then he came to major grief.
Bullets from a big revolver
tend to shorten human lives
this one was a problem solver.
He had come to take the coins.
Silver Cup!
In the land of your muse;
Life!
With the coastal muse of your love.
Pink, link!
To the Pink Prison;
In the land of your muse,
But, handle me with care.
Life!
Learning the truth after 50 years;
Broadly! !
Widely,
But, being very much in love with you.
When you fall in love with love
your heart and soul will tell you true,
and if you wear your silver earrings
on wings of song he'll fly to you.
Over the rainbow you'll be floating,
love's old sweet story must be told;
you will wear bright silver earrings
with his wedding band of gold.
Through the years you both will cherish
magic moments ~ forever new...
so always wear bright silver earrings
and on wings of love he'll fly to you.
gold gold is the fever metal
for the love of gold shining in their eyes
men resort to violent base morals
gold lust will turn men's
hearts to savage beasts
gold is not a beautiful metal
of salvation
curse of death men's
gold haunts
generations of men
silver silver is redemption metal
thirty pieces of silver payment
price for betrayal of prophet Christ
in blood of Christ
silver is granted power over evil
silver is metal
used to kill demon souls
silver not gold
is salvation metal
with power to slay evil
I closed the door to my heart
threw the silver little key
into the great big rapied waves
of the pacific ocean
i went on my way out in
the world of unknown
never going to have the same heart again
He walked though the hot sand
leaveing foot prints for
the world to see swam out in the rapied waves of the ocean
to find the little silver key
to this day he is still seaching
for the little silver key
fighting to find it.
Silver Kisses of Moonlight
Chase The Shadows From Your Face
All Around Is Darkness
Except The Glow Of Your Embrace
And The Stargaze of Your Eyes
And Luminous Pearls Thru Smiling Lips
The Shimmery Mist of Your Sweet Breath
Cool Fires From Your Fingertips
The Glints of Whispers Heard
The Sparks Of Passions Stirred
A Silken Solar Power Beamed! …
Illumed Within – Emerged
Soared Up To Unite
Explosions, Hearts Ignite
To Celebrate The Cosmic Sight
Of Two Souls Waking Up The Night
-            Leaving …
Silver Kisses In Moonlight
As Sleep Shadows Your Face
All Around Is Darkness
Except The Glow Of Your Embrace
Written & ©:  6/25/10
By:    MoonBee
Across the silver lake of dreams,
a malevolent pixie sits,
with rod in hand,
and line in water,
trying to catch the rainbow,
with its pot of gold.
His line of silver thread,
strung out and invisible,
against the water,
holds the magic of the world,
forgotten by mortal command.
Here we see a dragonfly,
of rainbow colours glide,
inches above the waters,
of the silver lake of dreams.
In the dark
Dark clouds and tides
Revolving round
The epicentre
of stormy life
I can go to hate it
For thousand reasons
But for one thin line
I am alive
in silvery light
it writes on my forehead
‘’you will  not die before
deciphering the meaning
of meaninglessness of life
till you feel lifted
and continue your writes ‘’
Nothing should be remembered
If that was not offered
Nothing should be thought over
If opportunity was denied ever
The past should not to be taken seriously
The present should be spent continuously
There has to be no break with on going process
All doors should be kept open for future access
The river water flows with no aim
The shore is knocked but nothing more is there to claim
The destination is never thought of
Still it flows with carved path and pass through
Let us be the last to think
Before ship gives way and starts to sink
No hope should be allowed to fade
Until there is silver line to find the shade
Think if we were to spend life in easy manner
There was no scope to learn for beginner
As it was providing everything in smooth way
What was left then in life to try hard way?
Sky was studded with dark clouds,
Rushing all over with big sounds,
Impeded danger of heavy down pour,
Adding of woes to already poor,
I never felt so poor and helpless,
Why He was using the goodness?
Tearing apart the dark clouds,
Who were waiting for flash pounds?
She was kept bonded behind the dark,
Would have been freed with little spark?
There were silver lines ready to burst,
I had full faith and bestowed trust,
Suddenly it took dramatic turn,
Sun rays were making complete return,
Sky was lit with bright sun shine,
She stood there smiling for the while,
I couldn’t understand the simple massage,
Why clouds disappeared while making passage?
May be it was temporary phase?
I thanked God and took it with complete ease,
There was impeding danger like dark clouds,
I was slowly loosing my ground,
Love was HIS blessings and newly found,
All agreed for union and came round,
I wish it to happen with all my friends,
Who wished me success and flowers send?
My story was not success but had happy end,
Turning to HIM for success was not new but good trend
They say every cloud
has a silver lining
and every true friend
a heart of gold.
In some moments
of distress,
we do not often see
what is there before our eyes.
Our judgement is clouded
and our worries conceal
what others try to give us
in hope and unconditional love.
The silver lining in our friends
is not always visible
and sometimes we are too blind
to see it there.
4 April 2009
Master Cat's
slimy
silver maya -
bloomed
to obsession,
an itch
she -
a Norse maiden
waters
foster in her breast.
She milks
while luring
a serpentine leech,
alike.
13th of December,2009
Silver mid- night moon
At the window with som- spoon
Oh! Her touch a boon!
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
'' Som ''  in Sanskrit  is  ''the nectar ''
My Lady comes to me in lucid dreams
Just as the mantle clock chimes midnight
She wears a gown of silver moonbeams
We dance until the early morning light
ROTMS
Shimmering orb of mystic light
Flowing energy into me
My earthly spirit to take flight
Earth, wind, flame and sea.
Lady Luna join my dance
Power fueled by rhythmic chant
Circle formed with passions lance
Incantations forth from my rant
Pregnant mother full of sight
Wisdom circles within my hand
Your magic I call this night
Time's hourglass has no sand
Mirrored visions reflecting truth
Dreaming thoughts of controlled rain
Hidden flames bursting from youth
Music fills the night over again
Nature's breath caresses my skin
The wind blows through me
Spirit called from within
Blinded vision now does see
Moon full of sliver flame
Flowing  words  of rain
Earthly woods of willow's pane
The seas can never be tamed
Carry our voice in our spell
Let the elements be free
Golden truth we must tell
Mystic power flows in me
Copyright 2006 A.J. McKinley
A man was crucified. He came to the city a stranger,
was accused, and nailed to a cross. He lingered hanging.
Laughed at the crowd. "The nails are iron," he
said, "You are cheap. In my country when we crucify
we use silver nails. . ." So he went jeering. They
did not understand him at first. Later they talked about
him in changed voices in the saloons, bowling alleys, and
churches. It came over them every man is crucified
only once in his life and the law of humanity dictates
silver nails be used for the job. A statue was erected
to him in a public square. Not having gathered his
name when he was among them, they wrote him as John
Silvernail on the statue.
I cannot think anymore, as happy as if’
I were with a woman, in the banking of the
Higher earths, amidst the alabaster aspens,
The columns for the celebrations
Of the cast of angels,
For in the blanketing nimbus,
The rosy swirl like that of the seashell’s
Inner ear, the peaceful colloquialisms
Of people who live so near the sea
They cannot tell their lives apart from
The otter’s clever play in seaweed beds,
For it is all of one season now,
The clever dating calendars give no hope:
And holidays could come at anytime,
Or none at all,
As the ancient berths of maritime traders
Trundle upwards in the darkness,
And horse-like skeletons split the
Infant grave, braying in the gray snows
As the wolves clean off the last
Of the clever meat, riding them:
The clock has wound down, and
The laughing man on top of it has
Breathlessly drunken his tasteless wine
And let us in:
Through the secret corridors where changing
Maidens run, the sea is butchered
By a dull sword and makes no sound.
There is silver on the tree
At the end of the path a long ways down,
Where not a single thing moves
At the foot of the house.
The ladies of aristocracy with ruined names
Have drunken their poisons under the lee,
And now sleep with a bluish sheen,
The opal necks rotting the speechless marble.
In this world,
How can you say a single thing
And not be driven away by the stockless kind.
As the heroes have risen up victoriously
Many times, now they grow old
And the greatest worm comes,
A long crimson train chewing coal,
So there is nothing to be done now,
As we are old and cotton haired,
Given over to the infant’s nameless whisperings,
But to open the door and let it in.
Silver is silver in colour.
Silver things are pretty things
they fill us with such delight.
Like the tinsel on a Christmas tree
all glittering in the light.
Silver things can be simple things
and very homely too, such as a silver
buckle that fastens up a shoe.
Silver things are Natures things
like the frost on an Autumn Morn.
When all the harvest is over and it's time
to scatter the corn.
Silver things are sacred things which are
very close to the heart. Like the blessing of
a couple who have been there for each other
right from the start.
This is ourTwenty Fifth Anniversary of our
Wedding Day. When on that day we took our vows
'To Love Honour and Obey!
Slowly, silently, now the moon
Walks the night in her silver shoon;
This way, and that, she peers, and sees
Silver fruit upon silver trees;
One by one the casements catch
Her beams beneath the silvery thatch;
Couched in his kennel, like a log,
With paws of silver sleeps the dog;
From their shadowy cote the white breasts peep
Of doves in silver feathered sleep
A harvest mouse goes scampering by,
With silver claws, and silver eye;
And moveless fish in the water gleam,
By silver reeds in a silver stream.
Forty words:
We have seen the rapeseed yellow
beneath an azure sky.
We have seen the purple heather
and red admiral butterfly...
gazing o'er the distant hills
we see Wordworth's daffodils.
But where the floribunda grows
there is not one silver rose.
managers producers
editors slicing waste scenes
Marilyn Monroe takes
so many takes
illnesses personal problems
so difficult stars
on screen illusions
sleep disturbances
substance abuses
hypersexuality sex kittens
disturbed interpersonal relationships
model magazine successes
magnetic sex appeals
silver screen bombshells
strong screen presences
Marlene Dietrich
Greta Garbo
Jean Harlow
Marilyn Monroe
make-believe games
solo performances
girl actresses dreams
amateur theatres
inferiority complexes
imaginative minds
soft liquid allure eyes
on-screen chemistry kisses
act out intriguing roles
depression anxieties
life-long melancholies
diverse eccentricities
baby embraces her stars
jet-set wealthy celebrities
well known personalities
celeb watchers
sport of photographers
media admirers
obsessed posed images
elusive marsh mellow mystique's
fickle fame flame lovers
famous romances
intimate relationships
bisexual lesbians
invented stories
affairs Hollywood insiders
scandal headlines
actresses' careers
private liaisons
financial straits
Hollywood megastars
need just right conditions
to explode onto scenes
as phenomenon's
rare super massive sirens
mystic screen stars
international superstars
imaginative lit horizons
cinematic iconic legends
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
The Buddha
Illuminated
Or she has the illuminations
Of Buddha starving
Nirvana
Brings her eyes
And lips
Farewell the sage
Of the beauty of the world
Jesus crumbled
To the sensuality
Of senses
The fall of those majestic
Hips
On knees
To the phallic god
Illumination has different kinds
She knows
To breathe
The free spirit
1/2/2010
Islamabad
The goddess of white silver
On long slabs of stones
Reflection of light
From the river
Richness of green and grey
With earthen sensuality
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Layers and layers
Silk slipping
From legs
Cold dampness
Smell of sunlight
Of the afternoon
In the cold corner
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Make and remake
Heart lines
On the soft sands
On earth
In the spaces of heart
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Thus that contemplation
Led
To the discovery
Of the inner freedom
Of the nude body
Covered in screens
1/2/2010
Islamabad
From the large eye
The sun through rays
Peeped
The dark spaces
Of aromatic odor
Of virginity
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Stylized
Draped and dressed
Half nude
Bereft of true freedom
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Reflection in black and white
Across the wall
In the crevices
Lips
Real to eat mud
On the bull’s neck
A promise remembered
Of the softness
Of her breasts
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Legs on the bare wall
Dreaming hard long
Butterflies leaving
The lips
Flowers growing in hairs
Fingers stuck
In holes
1/2/2010
Islamabad
Within the silver shadows
are locked our golden dreams
waiting patiently for us
to find the key and then set them free.
Dreams of love everlasting
to last us through our days,
dreams of happiness for evermore,
to let us smile through our life’s troubles.
They lay within the silver shadows
locked away in the recesses of our mind,
those golden dreams we dream about
from time to time.
The meandering wasteland,
within our shell of eternity,
where our dreams sleep,
awaiting us to awake them to make their escape.
The key is in us to unlock them
from within the silver shadows
where our golden dreams await
to be free to come true.
23 March 2009
Sometimes when the night is falling.
I can hear them softly calling.
Come and dance the night away
the moon is shining bright as day.
My fairy friends are gathering
to dance within the fairy ring.
I leave the comfort of my chair
and go outside to find them there.
Already to commence the dance.
I watch them as they skip and prance.
I am too big to join the dance
but gladly given half a chance.
I would discard my human guise
and dwindle down to be their size
Titania points her wand at me.
I find I am quite suddenly.
Much  smaller than I used to be.
The fairy maids all laugh with glee,
each one wants to dance with me
I gladly join the revelry.
We dance until the morning breaks.
A single word is all it takes
to restore me to my own size.
Titania is very wise.
She weaves another magic spell.
I can recall but cannot tell.
When I awake in my old chair
Gripped in my hand I find a pair
of tiny silken, silver shoon
the colour of a bright new moon.
A little keep sake it would seem
to prove to me it was no dream.
(11-Jul-07)
A night I will commit
A most ungodly thing
I will commit suicide
With the poison I keep
A night I will commit
My last dropp of blood
I will commit suicide
Because you did too
I will commit my suicide
Tonight at sunrise, on the
Roof of Hell, I will commit suicide
With a poison of Silver Sleep
As I take the syringe
And fill it with
The one dropp of the poison
I begin to taste it before it touches skin
The syringe is filled
I place the needle in my skin
And I press the back of the syringe down
The silver liquid passes through my system
I feel no pain
I am now dieing
Lights show around me
As blood passes my lips
The one I love is next to me
But I can no longer hear his voice
My eyes close and I see only darkness
My commitment to suicide has been fore filled.
I dropp the syringe as I fall
To the city street below me
The poison from the Silver Sleep
Is now upon me forever.
I bought a pair of silver sneakers
So I could run on God's golden road.
The laces were spun of shinny silver thread
And tipped with the purest of purest gold.
I could run faster than the speed of light
Everytime I placed them on my feet.
The feeling they gave me when I ran
Was a feeling noting could ever beat.
I joined in running Heaven's marathon
With my number placed on my back and chest.
To be viewed by all God's Angel's
Cheering me on to finish my spiritual quest.
I worked so hard to get to see this day
The one where I could run on God's golden streets.
And to hear the Angel's playing Heavenly music
While wearing those silver sneakers upon
My now Angelic feet.
Silver spoon, or no food on the spoon,
Well to do, or merciless goon?
Noon day sun, or midnight gloom,
What spells success, or imminent doom?
We are all the same, yet, not the same,
Black and white, what's in a name?
Born to live, or born to die,
Why do some laugh, while others cry?
If, in his image, we all are made,
Why do some prosper, whlie others fade?
Why are some chained, while some are free,
Does he smile at you, and frown at me?
Moonlight shatters
The crystals disperse
Flakes of winter
Fright's curse
Grey clouds of nowhere
Silver world awakes
To the silver sun beams
To the silver birds of song
Silver world awakes not to pleasure
Not to rhyme
Silver world awakes to sorrow
To the silver tear drop, crying
And with every tear the color fades
And more silver becomes the day
Spindling more silver
The silver devils play
And in my castle I hear the cry
The sharp shrieks of broken delight
The blinding light
The shivering fright
And in my castle I hear the wind
That humbles the calls
That corrodes my walls
The silver hissing wind
Driving nails into my coffin
The silver hissing wind
A dead heart will never soften
Meaningless are my dreams
Evanescent dreams
Grey clouds
Silver world
Faded clockwork, clicks
The hour passes, the hand ticks
And I awake into my dreams
Decadent reality, bursting seams
The clock now stops and forever so
Till I return but I shall not go
Everywhere you go
and no matter what you do,
you will find a silver-tongued devil
who will talk you into parting
with your hard earnt cash.
They’ll promise you things
you have always thirsted for,
but only at a price
and once they have you hooked,
they will try and entice you more
at an additional cost
and so it goes on and on
until you are broke or get wise,
then the silver-tongued devil
just promptly disappears
before your eyes.
9 April 2011
My silver tongued harlot,
Lie your lieing tongue upon mine,
let our tongues dance be revered,
and envied by all,
Your lies sweeten the victory,
But perhaps I just enjoy the bitterness.
Sometimes our destiny
rides the silver trail to nowhere,
and then we find ourselves
back at the beginning
to start all over again.
Fate chooses our destiny
and what it will be,
but lets us think we
were the one to choose.
20 October 2009
Silver Wedding
The party is over and I sit among
The flotsam that its passing leaves,
The dirty glasses and fag-ends:
Outside, a black wind grieves.
Two decades and a half of marriage;
It does not really seem as long,
Of youth's ebullient song.
David, my son, my loved rival,
And Julia, my tapering daughter,
Now grant me one achievement only;
I turn their wine to water.
And Helen, partner of all these years,
Helen, my spouse, my sack of sighs,
Reproaches me for every hurt
With injured, bovine eyes.
There must have been passion once, I grant,
But neither she nor I could bear
To have its ghost come prowling from
Its dark and frowsy lair.
And we, to keep our nuptials warm,
Still wage sporadic war;
Numb with insult each yet strives
To scratch the other raw.
Twenty-five years we've now survived;
I'm not sure either why or how
As I sit with a wreath of quarrels set
On my tired and balding brow.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
DO you know how the dream looms? how if summer misses one of us the two of us miss summer-
Summer when the lungs of the earth take a long breath for the change to low contralto singing mornings when the green corn leaves first break through the black loam-
And another long breath for the silver soprano melody of the moon songs in the light nights when the earth is lighter than a feather, the iron mountains lighter than a goose down-
So I shall look for you in the light nights then, in the laughter of slats of silver under a hill hickory.
In the listening tops of the hickories, in the wind motions of the hickory shingle leaves, in the imitations of slow sea water on the shingle silver in the wind-
I shall look for you.
As from the darkening gloom a silver dove
Upsoars, and darts into the eastern light,
On pinions that nought moves but pure delight,
So fled thy soul into the realms above,
Regions of peace and everlasting love;
Where happy spirits, crown'd with circlets bright
Of starry beam, and gloriously bedight,
Taste the high joy none but the blest can prove.
There thou or joinest the immortal quire
In melodies that even heaven fair
Fill with superior bliss, or, at desire,
Of the omnipotent Father, cleav'st the air
On holy message sent -- What pleasure's higher?
Wherefore does any grief our joy impair?
I ofetn ly awake and wonder
while outside the stars are shining
well, on this earth someone sure loves me
and he's called my silver lining...
When i think of what he's like i see
his smile's mischivious, his eyes are loving
he's promised to love me all my life
and he's called my silver lining...
When i think of what his nature would be
so true are this thoughts & genuine each feeling
i sure hope he always stays that way
and he's called my silver lining...
When i think of what our relation feels life
he's my hero, he's protective & calls me his darling
he shares & cares, he understands my silence
and he's called my silver lining...
Well on this earth, someone sure loves me
and he's called my silver lining...
with dreams in my eyes, i'm waiting right now
so where's my silver living?
You can say words that                                                     Can make people very happy and                                             You can say words that can make                                          Some people very upset,                                                What you say reflects your pretty                                         Thoughts or your ugly thoughts,                                         People judge you depending on what                                         You utter at a certain time,                                             If you say pretty words anytime, then                                       Your words are reflected in the mirror of life                             Otherwise all your words are nonsensical,                                 Words can win hearts and minds and at the                                  Same time can lead to bad things, so                                    What you utter reflects a pretty thing or                                       An ugly thing anytime and anywhere.
Well,—it was two days after my husband died—
Two days!  And the earth still raw above him.
And I was sweeping the carpet in their hall.
In number four—the room with the red wall-paper—
Some chorus girls and men were singing that song
'They'll soon be lighting candles
Round a box with silver handles'—and hearing them sing it
I started to cry.  Just then he came along
And stopped on the stairs and turned and looked at me,
And took the cigar from his mouth and sort of smiled
And said, 'Say, what's the matter?' and then came down
Where I was leaning against the wall,
And touched my shoulder, and put his arm around me . . .
And I was so sad, thinking about it,—
Thinking that it was raining, and a cold night,
With Jim so unaccustomed to being dead,—
That I was happy to have him sympathize,
To feel his arm, and leaned against him and cried.
And before I knew it, he got me into a room
Where a table was set, and no one there,
And sat me down on a sofa, and held me close,
And talked to me, telling me not to cry,
That it was all right, he'd look after me,—
But not to cry, my eyes were getting red,
Which didn't make me pretty.  And he was so nice,
That when he turned my face between his hands,
And looked at me, with those blue eyes of his,
And smiled, and leaned, and kissed me—
Somehow I couldn't tell him not to do it,
Somehow I didn't mind, I let him kiss me,
And closed my eyes! . . . Well, that was how it started.
For when my heart was eased with crying, and grief
Had passed and left me quiet, somehow it seemed
As if it wasn't honest to change my mind,
To send him away, or say I hadn't meant it—
And, anyway, it seemed so hard to explain!
And so we sat and talked, not talking much,
But meaning as much in silence as in words,
There in that empty room with palms about us,
That private dining-room . . . And as we sat there
I felt my future changing, day by day,
With unknown streets opening left and right,
New streets with farther lights, new taller houses,
Doors swinging into hallways filled with light,
Half-opened luminous windows, with white curtains
Streaming out in the night, and sudden music,—
And thinking of this, and through it half remembering
A quick and horrible death, my husband's eyes,
The broken-plastered walls, my boy asleep,—
It seemed as if my brain would break in two.
My voice began to tremble . . . and when I stood,
And told him I must go, and said good-night—
I couldn't see the end.  How would it end?
Would he return to-morrow?  Or would he not?
And did I want him to—or would I rather
Look for another job?—He took my shoulders
Between his hands, and looked down into my eyes,
And smiled, and said good-night.  If he had kissed me,
That would have—well, I don't know; but he didn't . .
And so I went downstairs, then, half elated,
Hoping to close the door before that party
In number four should sing that song again—
'They'll soon be lighting candles round a box with silver handles'—
And sure enough, I did.  I faced the darkness.
And my eyes were filled with tears.  And I was happy.
HOLY Lord Jesus, Thou wilt search till Thou find
This lost piece of silver,--this treasure enshrined
In casket or bosom, once of such store;
Now lying under the dust of Thy floor.
Gentle Lord Jesus, Thou wilt move through the room--
So empty--so desolate! and light up its gloom:
The lost piece of silver that no man can see,
Merciful Jesus! is beheld clear by Thee.
Defaced and degraded, trampled in the dust,
Its superscription Thou knowest still we trust:
And Thou wilt uplift it and make it re-shine,
For it was silver--pure silver of Thine.
Loving Lord Jesus, Thou wilt come through the dark,
When men are all sleeping and no eye can mark.
Though 'clean forgotten, like a dead man out of mind,'
This lost piece of silver Thou wilt search for--and find.
The moon in silver glory shone,
And not a cloud in sight;
When suddenly a shade begun
To intercept her light.
How fast across her orb it spread,
How fast her light withdrew!
A circle, tinged with languid red,
Was all appeared in view.
While many with unmeaning eye
Gaze on thy works in vain;
Assist me, Lord, that I may try
Instruction to obtain.
Fain would my thankful heart and lips
Unite in praise to thee;
And meditate on thy eclipse,
In sad Gethsemane.
Thy peoples guilt, a heavy load!
When standing in their room
Deprived thee of the light of God,
And filled thy soul with gloom.
How punctually eclipses move,
Obedient to thy will!
Thus shall thy faithfulness and love,
Thy promises fulfill.
Dark, like the moon without the sun,
I mourn thine absence, Lord!
For light or comfort I have none,
But what thy beams afford.
But lo! the hour draws near apace,
When changes shall be o'er;
Then I shall see thee face to face,
And be eclipsed no more.
They bade you softly,
They bade you so -
'Do not go, do not go, '
To the pale and silver moon's blue silk and blossom
They fail you softly
Their words -
They fail you so
- To the pale and silver moon's blue silk and blossom
And in the snow
Yes - in the snow
Where words do pale, but justice do
The silver moon's blue silk and blossom
You trusted through
You trusted through
"Come, rest with me now, my silver horn!
My melodious joy, my silver horn!
These many long years my constant friend,
Together let our toiling end.
Yet fain would I ask (were mine the choice)
For a moment of strength to give thee voice--
One silvery peal ere life shall cease;
But not for war--for blessed peace."
Yes! once again ring, sweet silver horn
That long ago rang on battle morn--
From vale and glen that summon'd then
To arms! to arms! a thousand men.
For peace ring now! for peace ring high!
Ring a welcoming peal that shall not die
Till mountain and mound, the earth around,
Responsive songs in echo sound.
"Thy whispers I hear, my silver horn!
My melodious joy, my silver horn!
They comfort me oft with such control,
Methinks thou hast a living soul.
Then cherish we both one calm content;
For the land that we love our powers were spent;
And o're the turf that greens our grave,
For ages may her banner wave."
"I kiss thee adieu, my silver horn!
My melodious joy, my silver horn!"
Then suddenly loos'd the bugler's clasp;
His kiss was but a dying gasp.
Yet marvels of power can love evoke:
At the touch of his lips the bugle spoke!
And wondrously sweet, and clear, and strong,
From thence outrang a silver song.
To James First Bishop of Shrewsbury on the 25th Year of his Episcopate July 28. 1876
1
Though no high-hung bells or din
Of braggart bugles cry it in—
What is sound? Nature’s round
Makes the Silver Jubilee.
2
Five and twenty years have run
Since sacred fountains to the sun
Sprang, that but now were shut,
Showering Silver Jubilee.
3
Feasts, when we shall fall asleep,
Shrewsbury may see others keep;
None but you this her true,
This her Silver Jubilee.
4
Not today we need lament
Your wealth of life is some way spent:
Toil has shed round your head
Silver but for Jubilee.
5
Then for her whose velvet vales
Should have pealed with welcome, Wales,
Let the chime of a rhyme
Utter Silver Jubilee.
The nights have grown cool again, like the nights
Of early spring, and quiet again. Will
Speech disturb you? We're
Alone now; we have no reason for silence.
Can you see, over the garden-the full moon rises.
I won't see the next full moon.
In spring, when the moon rose, it meant
Time was endless. Snowdrops
Opened and closed, the clustered
Seeds of the maples fell in pale drifts.
White over white, the moon rose over the birch tree.
And in the crook, where the tree divides,
Leaves of the first daffodils, in moonlight
Soft greenish-silver.
We have come too far together toward the end now
To fear the end. These nights, I am no longer even certain
I know what the end means. And you, who've been
With a man--
After the first cries,
Doesn't joy, like fear, make no sound?
Tho' youth may boast the curls that flow,
In sunny waves of auburn glow;
As graceful on thy hoary head,
Has time the robe of honor spread,
And there, oh ! softly, softly shed,
His wreath of snow!
As frost-work on the trees display'd,
When weeping Flora leaves the shade,
E'en more than Flora, charms the sight;
E'en so thy locks, of purest white,
Survive, in age's frost-work bright,
Youth's vernal rose decay'd!
To grace the nymph, whose tresses play
Light on the sportive breeze of May,
Let other bards the garland twine,
Where sweets of ev'ry hue combine;
Those locks rever'd, that silvery shine,
Invite my lay!
Less white the summer-cloud sublime,
Less white the winter's fringing rime;
Nor do Belinda's lovelier seem,
'A poet's blest, immortal theme',
Than thine, which wear the moonlight-beam,
Of rev'rend time!
Long may the graceful honors smile,
Like moss on some declining pile;
Oh! much rever'd! may filial care,
Around thee, duteous, long repair,
Thy joys with tender bliss to share,
Thy pains beguile!
Long, long, ye snowy ringlets, wave,
Long, long, your much-lov'd beauty save!
May bliss your latest ev'ning crown,
Disarm life's winter of its frown,
And soft, ye hoary hairs, go down,
In gladness to the grave!
And, as the parting beams of day,
On mountain-snows reflected play;
And tints of roseate lustre shed;
Thus, on the snow that crowns thy head,
May joy, with ev'ning planet, shed
His mildest ray!
The silver moon is set;
The Pleiades are gone;
Half the long night is spent, and yet
I lie alone.
These are twelve rose buds
in the bouquet
I give to you.
1.
This one is my Mind
for it has learned
that our two minds
melding will provide
light for our way.
2.
This one is my Heart
for there can be no
courage without it,
Faith its underpinning.
3.
My Body here now
unfolds
for only you
and under your touch
it blooms.
buffeted by that Innocence Betrothed
which smothers the Cynical Twinge.
4.
Our Future resides here
curled up fetal-style because
indeed our marriage
is just beginning.
5.
Home in this bulb
making it our mutual effort flower.
6.
This one is my shy
steel Devotion
which will not waver
or fall.
7. Here is my wish
for children
who reflect what we seek to grow here.
They are the earthly angels
humans are allowed.
8-9
My Spirit and my Soul
are these rose spheres
which inhabit our aora
these precious buds bring;
and this last is the
10.
Silver One
which is my Love
which opened its flower petal wings first
with you
taking my own breath away.
Under your touch
I,
for the first time in my life
bloomed
reeling from the smell
of rose-bud
bouquets;
of Tomorrows
Futures
and Yesterdays.
These in the end
are not mine to give
but I merely pass them
on to you and us
in the way that Nature
intends.
From these
are made
true Weddings.
The silver rings that bind the hearts
I'd rather have one true love
Than a thousand sweet words
I've got to accept the beginning
Song of birds, green sea
I don't want to be left behind
Visions of love are
Sweeter than delight
(dedicated to a great poet, Diane Di Prima)
The silver swan, who living had no note,
When death approach'd, unlock'd her silent throat;
Leaning her breast against the reedy shore,
Thus sung her first and last, and sung no more.
Farewell, all joys; O Death, come close mine eyes;
More geese than swans now live, more fools than wise.
Relating to the silver valley here is not my
cup of tea, I dont welcome the excess bagage
that mother of nature has given me
I dont like the fact that the color of my hair
will change, I liked the hair I had thank you
Why is it now such a VITAL importance that
we now must invest in every expensive vitiman
on the market, every slim now, lose unwanted fat,
take 30 inches off your waiste, in your own home
for 19.99? ? ? plus tax, shipipng and handling? ? ?
Signed up at the local gym, well that was a sure
thing, not to mention my monthly fee, my expensive
exersize clothing WITH a gym bag to match, and of
course now I have walking sneakers, I have jogging
sneakers, and of course I own offically my first jogging
bra, oh ladies, that is too much! ! ! !
Why is it we now must rush and do all of this asap
Do we think that maybe getting in the pearly gate
slimer is quicker? ? ? ?
The spider holds a Silver Ball
In unperceived Hands--
And dancing softly to Himself
His Yarn of Pearl--unwinds--
He plies from Nought to Nought--
In unsubstantial Trade--
Supplants our Tapestries with His--
In half the period--
An Hour to rear supreme
His Continents of Light--
Then dangle from the Housewife's Broom--
His Boundaries--forgot--
The spider knits its silver web,
In hope to seize a falling star,
While all the while the moon does ebb,
Still gazing at it from afar.
For yet I think a stronger thread
Do you and I together weave,
How when apart, my spirit’s fled,
Half of my heart, I hate to leave.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
Those early Roman days, were not much
different,
When bribery, corruption and evil ways,
had also prevailed!
Politicians crossed the floor of the Senate, -
like politicians of our days!
Morality, human values, and actions and
deeds,
Had  price tags to satisfy human greed!
Both terrorists and traitors could be tempeted
by the devil,
To satisfy human lust and for the spread of
evil!
I often recall how Judas had betrayed,
By planting the traitors kiss on his Masters
face;
And sold Jesus to the Romans in a villanous
barter trade!
Thirty pieces of silver, became the price of
Judas soul,
For thirty pieces of silver, his Master he had
sold!
Thiry pieces of silver, was all that Judas got;
In exchange of hell fire and damnation as his
eternal lot!
-Raj Nandy
New Delhi
18 Aug 08
(Friends, the world is full of Judas these days!)
< br>
A glorious city spired gleams up there
With mountain ranges, silver peaks background
The wayfarer much wonder-struck does stare
A dream appears to have come true but rare
A road that winds through thick forest is found
A glorious city spired gleams up there
The road is lined by silver birches fair
And deer so freely grazing here are found
The wayfarer much wonder-struck does stare
The smell of musk and berries fills the air
In trance, the traveler walks the road dumbfound
A glorious city spired gleams up there
The rain-cast skies have clouds like silverware
The heavenly scene is haunting holy ground
The wayfarer much wonder-struck does stare
To reach the dream-like city, all would dare
No wonder all who’ve seen the place are bound
A glorious city spired gleams up there
The wayfarer much wonder-struck does stare
Colors, colors everywhere
Colors all around
Reds and purples and blues are there
But silver can't be found
I look around, and now I've found some yellows and some greens
I look until my eyes are sore, but silver can't be seen
I look unto the vibrant clouds, but there's no silver lining
Where is all the silver that the miners should be mining?
There are no silver bells a'ringing
The silver songbirds are not singing
The orange sun hangs in the air, but I can't find silver anywhere
I look for hours, look for days, look for silver anyplace
But there always seems to be another color in it's place
I've given up this useless search
There is no silver left to find
I dropp my head and start to cry
When out of my pocket falls a silver dime
He not only listens but pays
Complete attention with silver rays
Make your path smooth and easy
So you don’t forget him despite being busy
Though you have different perception
God knows it from inception
Your needs and aspirations are all well known
Only you admit the faults and make it known
Why do you with all the helplessness?
Why you have to hide the feelings and face?
He is all the time there to take care
You have only to find him somewhere
You won’t find him at particular place
You must watch it with view to trace
If you fail in your attempt any case
It will be really bad time with critical phase
It has to be our regular prayer and feature
He has sealed our fate with signature
We got to obey Him and go to his shelter
It is with one aim to perform always better
Do we have any option?
To play the part in relation
The role assigned is unknown
Mistakes are considered of your own
For any mischief you are blamed
For any misdeeds you are shamed
Not a single act brings an honor
You are condemned therefore
The life stage is of different type
You can not shout or hype
Over the success in open
As it comes all of sudden
Sometimes you are driven
To the extreme corner even
Sometimes you are raised high
Your wings are ready to fly
Not all people are born with silver spoon
So many struggle hard in afternoon under hot sun
They are subjected to hard for not good return
But joy and happiness is sweet in turn
It is good to be part of circus
Play as character with trust
It is with intense desire to prove successful
Life is projected as beautiful and wonderful
She always likes to annoy me
And says I am very sweet
She keeps giving me kisses
Which I don’t think is neat
We have these huge fights
Be the topic something real or a dream
Fiza hits me so hard
That I shout and scream
I think during one such fight
I broke a bone or two
My mom to stop us fighting
Yells at us both, that’s all she can do
She makes an angelic face
When my parents are around
But when we are fighting
She is the other way around
With that angelic face
She gets my parent’s affection
And even though I am innocent
I have to bear the imposition
Mom scares me out of my wits
Even though all she does is scold
If she scold me for the tiniest things
Before mom, I still can’t be bold
It’s a fact that we always fight
And she tries to eat my pizza
I still have to admit
I love my sister……….Fiza
The ocean breeze with it's special aroma permeated the air.
I felt lonely, empty, my sister's ashes now flow there.
In my mind's eye, I saw her face and beautiful golden hair.
Oh how I wish she was also standing here.
I feel somewhat at peace, though I miss her so very much,
longing to once more feel her warm gentle touch.
In my heart, I know she is surely gone,
but in her children's faces, my beautiful sister lives on.
Go, go, my naughty girl, and kiss
Your little sister dear;
I must not have such things as this,
And noisy quarrels here.
What! little children scratch and fight,
That ought to be so mild;
Oh! Mary, it's a shocking sight
To see an angry child.
I can't imagine, for my part,
The reason for your folly;
She did not do you any hurt
By playing with your dolly.
See, see, the little tears that run
Fast from her watery eye:
Come, my sweet innocent, have done,
'Twill do no good to cry.
Go, Mary, wipe her tears away,
And make it up with kisses:
And never turn a pretty play
To such a pet as this is.
Abuse
He was little at the time,
She was only a child,
But both were abused,
And had been for a while.
Their father was cruel,
Mean and heartless.
The way he hurt them,
Made it look effortless.
He locked her up,
In a room up the stair.
And left the house drunk,
Leaving her there.
He was hit from the mum,
A blow to the face.
The way they were treated,
Was an utter disgrace.
He couldn't get up,
He couldn't fight back.
For food to get stronger,
Was something he lacked.
The little girl was left,
Alone in the dark.
Cradling her arm,
On which was a mark.
Her wrist had been used,
To put out a cigarette stump.
Buring through the skin,
Leaving her with a lump.
He had been kicked,
When he was down.
Kicked for just being there,
Kicked down to the ground.
She had been someone,
For her parents alone,
To personally hurt,
When they were at home.
These children were hurt,
Outside and in.
They'd been physically abused,
And hurt right within.
Their pride had been banished,
Long, long ago.
They couldn't stand up,
And simply say, 'No! '
The children died,
Not older than three.
The boy protecting his sister,
The girl clutching her teddy.
They had bruises,
Up and down their arms.
But they had escaped,
Escaped from further harm.
I wish that I could have,
Had the courage to speak.
To tell someone of this abuse,
That happened each week.
I could have made a difference,
For this little boy and girl,
I could have made a difference,
That they could mean the whole world.
So if you know of any,
Type of abuse.
Tell the helpline to today,
Before someones life is what we loose.
When we talked yesterday
your pain was so apparent
even though
you wouldn't say.
I could feel you
through my computer.
I could feel your pain
and your desire
for happiness.
I have faith in you
and if I could send my strength
acrossed the many miles
to help guide you
through the roads
that are bound to get rough
I would.
Prove everyone wrong
show them
that you have suffered
long enough
and that now
you will accept nothing
less than happiness.
We were born into pain
loneliness
and abuse.
Don't stay there.
You are so young still
and what a survivors story
you will have
when you overcome
all your obstacles
and create the life
you've never dared to dream!
I'm glad I have a sister
and happy you're the one
that fills my life with laughter,
happiness and fun.
I love the little secrets
and jokes that no one knows
except for us two funnies
Oh it makes me laugh!
Oh the fun we have together,
It makes my life all better.
You're there when I need a hug,
i feel snug as a bug in a rug!
All you do is smile
and it brightens up the room,
Whenever you're away,
I know you'll be home soon.
We talk of getting older
and going to the gym,
growing up, getting married
and of course we're having kids!
I'll be there when you need me,
and I hope you'll do the same,
ring me and I'll be there
as quickly as I can.
We laugh at all the memories,
we grin at all the names,
even though we change,
I hope our friendship stays the same.
I love our little chats
and dreams of our life,
and I know that one day
you'll make a great mother and wife!
We are two emotional sisters,
that we imagine  to be,
we even have our ups and downs but that comes naturally.
So even when we are apart,
you have a place inside my heart!
Sisters together forever at heart
Even when death do us part.
A sister is your guardian angel if she's older,
and your constant shadow if she's younger.
She's your best friend in all your endevours.
Your confidant, protector of your heart,
and secret keeper.  A sister can also be
your enemy; your best adversary at times
of fighting.
She keeps all of your secrets, even the tough
ones.  She's the one to tell you constantly
how pretty you are, partly because you look
similar in some ways.  Your sister is the one
to call when that one boy talks to you; especially
when he decides to break your heart.
Also she's the first one vowing to beat him up
if he breaks your heart.
Your sister is your mother at a younger age
and you are hers.  Not only is she your savior
shall anything happen to you, she also knows
what to do to make you feel better and wipe
away the tears.  A sister is your only friend
when all others have walked out, especially
when you need a friend the most.  This is
the person you shared your bedroom, and
at any time when your body changes, the one
whom you share clothes with.
She knows what makes you laugh, cry, and
most times is the one to make you laugh
and cry.  She gives you a firm grasp of life
and tells you how hard love is so you don't go
in blind.  She has the qualities of an angel and
will never leave your side. She's the one who
understands every personal event life throws
at you, for she lost the same loved one you did.
To me a sister is all of these qualities rolled into
two.  For I am the lucky one to have two big
sisters like you.
I will always love you no matter what
There is just that bond that can't be cut
Though we sometimes fight with each other
I'll stick up for you and be your cover
If people want to go after you, they have to go through me
So make sure you tell that to everyone you see
You are my little sister and I'll be there for you till the end,
For you are not just my little sister.....
You are my best friend!
You say he broke your heart and you can’t go on?
You cry all day and night until you think you’re going to drown?
Well, stop your sniffling sister,
It’s no ones fault but yours.
You let him get away with cheating before
And you’ve let it go on for years.
The first time he lied, well honey, you should’ve dumped him then,
Instead you forgave him and denied away his sins.
If you’re not going to insist on the very best
What in this big, bad world do you think your gonna get?
Sisters unite and demand the best
Make these guys rise above-
Don’t give into his indecent request,
Take your time until you find, he’s worthy of your love.
You’ve got to wise up to know what’s up.
Have the courage to be your own best friend.
Cinderella didn’t date the mice.
Snow White didn’t wed the dwarves, (ok, she lived with them and that wasn’t smart) .
Girlfriend your life’s not fiction
Don’t let someone else write your happily,
ever-after endings.
The shorn moon trembling indistinct on her path,
Frail as a scar upon the pale blue sky,
Draws towards the downward slope: some sorrow hath
Worn her down to the quick, so she faintly fares
Along her foot-searched way without knowing why
She creeps persistent down the sky’s long stairs.
Some day they see, though I have never seen,
The dead moon heaped within the new moon’s arms;
For surely the fragile, fine young thing had been
Too heavily burdened to mount the heavens so.
But my heart stands still, as a new, strong dread alarms
Me; might a young girl be heaped with such shadow of woe?
Since Death from the mother moon has pared us down to the quick,
And cast us forth like shorn, thin moons, to travel
An uncharted way among the myriad thick
Strewn stars of silent people, and luminous litter
Of lives which sorrows like mischievous dark mice chavel
To nought, diminishing each star’s glitter,
Since Death has delivered us utterly, naked and white,
Since the month of childhood is over, and we stand alone,
Since the beloved, faded moon that set us alight
Is delivered from us and pays no heed though we moan
In sorrow, since we stand in bewilderment, strange
And fearful to sally forth down the sky’s long range.
We may not cry to her still to sustain us here,
We may not hold her shadow back from the dark.
Oh, let us here forget, let us take the sheer
Unknown that lies before us, bearing the ark
Of the covenant onwards where she cannot go.
Let us rise and leave her now, she will never know.
"SISTER, sister, go to bed!
Go and rest your weary head."
Thus the prudent brother said.
"Do you want a battered hide,
Or scratches to your face applied?"
Thus his sister calm replied.
"Sister, do not raise my wrath.
I'd make you into mutton broth
As easily as kill a moth"
The sister raised her beaming eye
And looked on him indignantly
And sternly answered, "Only try!"
Off to the cook he quickly ran.
"Dear Cook, please lend a frying-pan
To me as quickly as you can."
And wherefore should I lend it you?"
"The reason, Cook, is plain to view.
I wish to make an Irish stew."
"What meat is in that stew to go?"
"My sister'll be the contents!"
"Oh"
"You'll lend the pan to me, Cook?"
"No!"
Moral: Never stew your sister.
men-
they like to see us smile
no doubt
they like us cheerful
you say
but sister-
if it isn't them
that push
us toward a
joyless state
I went toa Catholic school named St. Florian High School.
The school was under the authority of the Felician Nuns.
All the nuns carried the same middle name, Mary.
It was educational and certainly with a certain amount of fun,
But not as much fun the LaFave gave someone,
Who was the age of fourteen;
Do you know what I mean?
“It’s been fourteen days since I don’t know when,
When I saw her with my best friend”
Sorry, I went off on a tangent,
-not that I would think of ever having sex with a nun,
I would do “nun” of that.
Especially the above aforementioned,
I would often wonder what it is like to have decent “lay” teacher,
The teachers who were raping their students statutorily,
Were in big trouble,
Spread by all the media, they condemned editorially,
Many a male student would have wanted LaFave to burst their virgin bubble.
Pamela Rogers, Rebecca Ann Boicelli, Mary Kay Letourneau, Celeste Emerick,
Adrianne Hockett, Carol Lynn Flannigan, Amber Denise Williams, Senorita Walker, Kristen Margrif, Amber Marshall, Sarah Bench-Salorio, Melissa Michelle Deel, Angela Comer, Nicole Andrea Barnhart, Tammy Lee Huggins, Toni Lynn Woods, Bethany Sherrill, Margaret De Barraicua, Nicole Long, Rachel Holt, Sharon Linton  Rutherford, Susan Lemery, Becci Hill, Wendie A. Schweikert, Allena Ward, Jennifer Mally, Mariella Brenlla, Karen Robbins, Christina Butler, and Kelsey Peterson are among the convicted.
They betrayed the society that has entrusted them with the education of children,
After looking at these mug shots I find it hard,
That anyone would have sexual desire for them,
What is that the students would get better grade, not fail,
Or simply screw someone that was willing and able?
What more is that I discovered not just rape, but murder, and kidnapping?
But I hope that these indiscretions were just whim, neither for fame nor glory.
So back to St. Florian High,
I’m glad that I haven’t put up with that BS when I went to school,
So the nuns are exonerated, but the pedophile priests,
- they are a different story.
(12-5-2007)
And it still continues,
A 33 female year old teacher was convicted of raping two brothers in the news,
Jennifer Rice had sex with a ten year old and a fifteen year old,
Yet this story is not ending, the end is not in sight, many more to unfold.
(amended 4-21-09)
You tell me that you need to know
how I truly feel
How can I possibly tell you that
when I don't even know whats real
Ever since I was a little child
I've been tough only to hide
All of my emotions
everything inside
You tell me you tried so damn hard
to help me break down my walls
But all I did was shield away
and build them up real tall
Inside I search for someone who really cares
the person that comes to mind is you
I feel alone
because you ask me 'you are, who? '
I gaev up on love and feelings
a long time ago
That is why my life is now
just a show
Sorry I say, sister mine
I want to give you everything left
But my voice has died
and you are deaf
I love you,
I want you to know
That if when I leave this world
I care for you deep inside, that's why I had to go.
Remember sis that the dream lives on
As bright as a star in the sky, you have always shone.
(to my sis....you probably will never read this....if you do...I love you...I always did....I'm sorry if i didn't show it....you where always the only one who cared...thank you for everything...<3)
Sister is
Not only
Sister...
MY
Truley girl friend...
Sister
Not only sister...
My child's...
Teacher....
Also my child hood
Teacher...
With a loving servent...
Playing partner...
Sister is
Not only sister...
Guide + Advoicer
With my life...
Sister not only
A sister
My dear mom
A youthFull mom...!
Sister not only
Sister...
My dear and dear...
Of family V.i.P
At one of
My life heart...
Dear my dear
Sister...
Your sister's
how are you...?
Your radiant smile brought sunshine in my life
your thoughtfulness exceeded all expectations
I am lost without you like the babes in the forest
Theres nothing on earth that can compare
With the sisterly love that we both shared
you are gone but not forgotten
We played with our toys in the attic on cold winter days
Made up stories of ghosts and gobims and things that go bump in the night
It was all so fine and grand
We frolic and played and had such fun
Shared sectrets of the very young
I can still hear Tell laura I love her, Moody rivers,
The words  echoing through my mind
Bringing back sweet memories of you
All my fears went out of site
As you sang me to sleep at night
We both grew up and had families of our own
You were never out ot off reach
Aways there though thick and thin
One couldn, t ask for a better friend
When I needed someone to talk too
I would call you on the phone
The phone lays there in silence
For the angels has taken you home
You were my inspiraion
Steady like a rock
Dependable in every way
You had a roar of a lion
A heart of gold
you were protective  over me
Like an eagle in flight
Swooping down on her prey
To make all the pain go away
Her enemies feard and trembled
Then she flew away
How can I survive this world without you
You said I would never be alone
That you would be looking down on me
Why do tears of sorrow fill my eyes
Why do I have a heavy heart
The butterfly pendnant you gave me
With a heart that says I love you
Stares at me every day
With an over whelming sadness
That you have gone away
You were very brave through all the pain
Thought only of others right to the end
Accepted things as they were where I could not
My sister, I miss you in every way
Life will never be the same
Time will never heal my wounds
I think of you every passing day
written by....
verna goulding ralph
8: 00 PM 9/30/2008
Your radiant smile brought sunshine in my life
Your thoughtfuless exceeded all exspectations
I am lost without you like the babes in the forest
There, s nothinng compared to the sisterly love that we shared
You are gone but not forgotten
We played with our toys in the attic on cold winter days
Made up stories of ghosts and goblins, things that go bump in the night
It was all so fine and grand
We frolic and played and had such fun
Shared secrets of the very young
I can still hear  Tell Laura I  Love her, Moody rivers
The words echoing through my mind
Bringing back sweet memories of you
All my fears went out of site
As you sang me to sleep at night
We both grew up and went our way
You were never out of reach
Always there through thick and thin
One couldn, t ask for a better friend
When I needed someone to talk to
I would call you on the phone
The phone lays there in silence
The angels have carried you home
You were my inspiration
Dependable in everyway
Steady like a rockYou had a roar of a lion
A heart of gold
You were protected over me
Like an eagle in flight
Swooping down on her prey
Her enemies trembled in fear
Until she flew away
How can I survive this world without you
You said you would be looking down on me
Why do tears twinkle from my eye
Why do I  have a heavy heart
Please God give me strenth
The butterfly pendant you gave me
With a heart that says I love you
stares at me every day
With an overwhelming sadness that you have gone away
You were very brave through all the pain
Thought only of others right to the end
Accepted things as they were where i could not
My sister, I miss you in every way
Life will never be the same
Time will never heal my wounds
I think of you every passing day.....
5 half-moons rising
on the hand that strokes my hair
bracelets like music
whispering softly in my ear
“Shhhshhh...therethere...shush... shush. . .there! ”
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the lighthouse engulfed in fog
Shining it’s beacon of light
That guides through stormy seas Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the soft whispers carried on a breeze
As it rustles through copper colored leaves
Words of encouragement
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the snow capped mountains
Majestic peaks against a soft hue of blue
The epitome of strength
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the vast meadows of wildflowers
A motley of colors put on display
Simplifying beauty
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the endless skies overhead
And it’s never-ending exhibit of light and dark
Infinite
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
Someone who will understand
Who knows the way I feel
In every situation
Her concern is very real…
Someone who has touched my heart
Who knows my every need
Times when she would see me cry
Her heart would nearly bleed…
Everyone should have a sister
Just the way I do
Even though your far away
Richly blessed is what I am
To have a sister like you…
I can no longer tell people that I have a little sister,
Now I must say that I have a younger sister,
Because you’re old enough to no longer be a ‘little sister’,
Though to be honest, that’s what you’ll always be to me.
This is the hardest thing I’ve ever had to write,
Because there are no words of wisdom that I can give you
That you probably don’t already know,
The only advice I could impart is just to stay crazy.
I know that soon I’ll be going away and things may not be the same,
But I’ll always remember you like you are from this past year.
My sister- the strong, independent girl who takes no rubbish off anyone,
Listens to Elaine Page and the Sex Pistols, quotes Monty Python as if it were verse
And uses her eyebrows as dangerous weapons.
What I just want you to know, no matter how old or young you are,
Just how much your brother loves you dearly,
Even though you’re no longer old enough to be my little sister anymore.
(1/07/07)
The strong-girl of our home!
She did the hardest chores;
And helped mother at work,
And locked the house’s doors.
She was a simple dame;
But received all the blame;
She yearned for love and name;
Life played a cruel game!
She loved to talk her heart,
And learned on own some art;
Unlucky on her part,
She remains right from start.
She is an Aquarian;
Devoted Marian;
She leads a spinster’s life,
Alone, amidst much strife.
May God bless my sister,
On her birthday today!
And grant her will-power
To walk in Heaven’s way.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 2-11-2006
Dedicated to my dear elder sister,
Miss. Noeline Mary Clemencia, CBE.
Hold on to your sister
She is a part of you.
Hold on to your sister
You can help each other through.
You say “You have No Sister”,
Then look around you friend.
Your sister is right beside you
Waiting to let you in.
Hold on to your sister.
Please don’t push her away.
One day you will look up,
And she will be gone the other way.
Hold on to your sister.
She hasn’t reached perfection yet.
She needs you to help her
To make it through each painful test.
Hold on to your dear sister.
There is something you each must do.
Intercede for one another.
This is required of you.
Ó2006Mary Duhart
Hold on to your sister
She is a part of you.
Hold on to your sister
You can help each other through.
You say “You have No Sister”,
Then look around you friend.
Your sister is right beside you
Waiting to let you in.
Hold on to your sister.
Please don’t push her away.
One day you will look up,
And she will be gone the other way.
Hold on to your sister.
She hasn’t reached perfection yet.
She needs you to help her
To make it through each painful test.
Hold on to your dear sister.
There is something you each must do.
Intercede for one another.
This is required of you
Being schooled in Parochial Catholic Schools I find it hard to imagine,
The thought of that I had would be nude on FACEBOOK.
It’s been,
A long time but I dare look,
At the nuns that I had, Sr. Mary Geraldine, Sr. Mary Consuela, Sr. Mary Yolanda,
Sr. Mary Anne, Sr. Mary Judine, Sr. Mary Amabylis, Sr. Mary Ephysema-
Scratch that last one,
Now in the news there photos of a naked nun, she remains nameless-
So we will call her Sr. Mary Nudea.
Sr. Mary Nudea, was a single lady before she became a nun.
As I found out throughout my travels to Europe,
Topless and nude beaches are no big deal.
She went along with boyfriend to frolic in surf and the sun.
But when it was done,
She opted to remain celibate and serve God being an Italian nun.
Sr. Mary Nudea, did find her old naked pictures on her ex-boyfriends FACEBOOK page.
She’s not suing for money she did not have rage.
Sr. Mary Nudea wants only to live her life out as being a nun.
So much more could be sacrilegious:
Priests being pedophiles
Televangelism spewing call for donations as they jet of f to the Ritz-Carlton in Paris.
Britney Spears supposedly playing the Virgin Mary for Broadway Production.
Madonna singing like a prayer or like a virgin.
Or did he do that to harass?
As for Italian men who saw her pics on the ex-boyfriends page,
they seem interested for a divine call.
The seminaries should be open to more applicants to say the least.
Meanwhile, Italians are flocking (to)  the site in large numbers to see the pictures,
-leaving comments like: 'If all the nuns are like that, I want to become a priest.'
7-21-09
I’m ever so numb
So why cant you see
That not only do I not but now I hate my family
You took what made me smile
Now I cry all the time not just once and a while
Know I am numb and can not feel
Please tell me what is the deal
You have to learn to trust the girl that you raised
Just let us be friends and you will be amazed
Amazed to see the smile brake away that frozen frown
its not like ill be a stripper in town
I use to tell you everything and anything
Now I just wait for the phone to ring
We use to be so close not to mention
But now at dinner you can just feel the tension
Daddy just understand that with out you I can live
You have given all the help you can give
You have taken my light and burned it out
You have taken my heart and made it cold
You have taken my sister and hurt me so
I cant talk to you with out being judged
But now I can see that you decision can not be budged
If I could I would walk till my feet were nothing but a blister
Dad.. I don’t need a therapist I need my big sister! !
If you cry my sister,
I am always there to wipe out
Your tickling tears
For swallowing them in me
You are the dearest one,
Don’t think
You are alone in this world
Your brother is still alive for you
Remember me,
The moment you undergo,
The toughest circumstance of your life
Believe me, Sister
Your brother will sacrifice his life
For your sake
Oh Sister,
Don’t take the test of your brother
If really you face problems
That shatter all your hope and sweet memories,
Then close your eyes, you will feel brother near you
Every Morning,
When i open up my eyes
Love-wrapped whispers greet me.
In the grim moments of the day
The unseen power of her love guards me.
She wards off all ominious un-cannies
With her pitched supplications.
She bleeds in my love.
She flies in my love.
She blossoms in my love.
Lo and Behold! I have a sister.
As sweet as a Raspberry.
As gentle as morning breeze.
The un-matched is her love for me
And none equals to  my Adi.
*Adi: Sindhi substitute for sister.
Dedicated To Sweetest Shah Bano.
it is a story,
i always wanted to tell,
Once upon a time, i had a sister,
who is DEAD!
i missed her so much,
she missed me too,
well.... i thought like that,
and i wished why,
but i knew she would be happy,
in the glory of the heaven,
she will have everything she wants,
and would love to share me some,
she is super,
she is wonderful,
i see her in my dreams,
and always wondered what she will be thinking now,
it's a pleasure that she is safe,
with all the good things in there,
i wish i will see her for once,
just to take a good look at her,
and to say, 'always missed you,
and loved you'
looking at her bay pictures,
does not help,
it is true,
that i get bored without her,
but i only wanted a person like her,
to share my feeling,
if she is with me now,
we would be happy togerther,
just if you don't believe me, readers,
just ask my parents,
i miss her so much,
i love her very much,
it just hurt me more,
when thinking about her...............
My name is Olaf Dangelmaier
I am accused to be a liar,
a traitor to the King at that
a coward, ugly like a rat.
The Royal Court has now decreed
that I shall pay for excess greed
by hanging from the castle's rafter
until I reach the life hereafter.
The King allowed me still to choose
a meal before I meet the noose,
but I requested   my last wish
to be a different kind of dish.
I had in days before seen class
in what is called a horse's ass.
The sister of the mentioned King
was sooo obese, but she could sing.
In charge of entertainment, she
had,  early on, laid eyes on me.
All servants to the Royals knew
that Kunigunde was a true
and loyal woman, only that
she found no man due to her fat.
The King felt sorry for his sis'
and sensed the need  for her to kiss,
before the ravages of age
would end her work up on the stage.
But gold and silver had not found
a husband for this very round
and somewhat bald and homely girl.
Just last July, a British Earl
had turned away in true disgust,
'a detriment to British lust! '
She came with riches and a castle
but he declined, it was a hassle.
I saw my last and final chance
and asked for a slow Polka dance,
my wish was granted by the sister
and notarised by the Philister.
The sun had set behind the trees,
I slowly rose with wobbly knees,
and then proceeded with my plan,
the brainchild of a desperate man.
The music filled the dancing hall
we moved with grace, from wall to wall.
Her garlic breath surrounded us
she pirouetted like a bus.
And then, she sang a Polka Rap
as through  a huge incisor gap
came, soothingly, some lovely tones
accompanied by........ pheromones.
Soon found myself drawn to her breasts
which overflowed, up at the crest
of her pink gown of bright chiffon,
the time had come, she turned me on.
We danced and let the evening linger
the King was shown her middle finger,
her hand had grabbed me by the butt
and, all in all, the scene was hot.
The Minnesanger had arrived,
my plan, which could be called contrived,
was going well, as i had hoped.
She whispered 'what if we eloped? '
And, with the blessing of the King
I did install a five-inch ring
on my new bride and royal saviour.
The pardon was for good behaviour.
And if you ever face your death
you must get used to garlic breath.
As well as each unusual trait
what matters is your mental state.
Dedicated to Au Canada.
As I listen to that guitar scream
Sounds ring out my destiny
A stronger power grabs ahold of me
Shocks me with a volt of electricity
My intestance explodes onto the floor
Red blood begins to shadow my mind
Extacy brings out a whore
Her shattered innocence has made her blind
Dont cry little sister
I can feel your need
Youre not to blame for your indecency
Dont cry little sister
Its not your fault
That the demons within have tore your soul apart
Ill always love ya little sister
Youve done no wrong
Although the demons reach out to kiss ya
Never feel you dont belong
Ba(ar) ck in Hamtramck, which a city surrounded by Detroit,
(Detroit was the place the Nation of Islam was formed) ,
I was perusing my sister’s books;
Pat was an avid reader,
She was a different reader,
The Harrad Experiment,
Fahrenheit 451,
The Autobiography of Malcolm X,
She fell for Father Cunnigham from Focus: Hope,
-but now she is dead
And some of the social issues from her library had come to light,
it lookslike had given me some insight
Malcolm X found God or Allah in prison,
-like most people, they did a sin retraction
Do they have time to reflect and think?
Malcolm X had found peace and solace;
With the study of the Koran,
And following the instruction,
Of the Prophet Elijah Muhammed,
he and Mohammed were the same
By the way,
-a street that borders the Focus: Hope annex bears the prophets name.
Malcolm X did support the idea that blacks should look out for own,
To rid the neighborhoods of crime,
prostitution and drugs,
That were responsible for wrecking their lives and homes.
All a valiant effort, until a group of black hit men from the Nation of Islam, “thugs”,
Cut him down, at the Audobon  Ballroom,
uptown in Harlem.
After he came back from his Hajj,
Malcolm X, who groomed for seizing control,
Of the Black Muslims, or the Nation of Islam,
felt that this was not for him,
Malcolm X, in Mecca, prayed with Muslims,
-white, yellow, race didn’t matter though,
After returning to America he decided to break away the Nation of Islam.
Soon afterward he met his demise.
For those that were with him, there was no surprise.
The FBI, under J Edgar Hoover,
(at time he was picking his lingerie out,)  did not act,
The FBI must’ve said “One gone and many more to go”.
The assassination was viewed at some kind hit by the FBI at that time,
Quite the contraire, Prophet Elijah Muhammed put the hit on him,
The Calypso Singer, Prophet Louis Farakhan knows,
-he was one of the runner-ups.
Prophet Farakhan has different ideas,
The Mother Ship, Jews are pigs, etc.
(In fact to Mother Ship is remembered in song by the Parliament Funkdelic,)
One being which white people is an experiment gone awry,
Farakhan had been spoofed on In Living Color, by the Wayans, in skit,
The Wrath of Farakhan,
Which was a parody of the movie?
Star Trek: The Wrath of Khan.
I used to see the Nation of Islam followers giving their vitriolic venomous view.
and The Final Call news,
- on 7 mile at Greenfield in Detroit, the northwest section.
I had a guitar student there, Henry Birch, - I would stop at a light,
They sometimes approached my car with a bag of fruit and their paper,
On the Final Call, I would challenge their views.
Because I asked a Muslim from Ghana,
a Muslim from Pakistan,
And a Muslim from the United Arab Emirates,
About Black Muslims, they said, independently,
- at different locations and times,
There are no such separations in regard to race with Islam;
that is blasphemy.
But the Nation of Islam became very powerful set up in the inner city,
Allegedly Chauncey Bailey paid with his life,
For attempting to do an expose on Your Black Muslims Bakery,
-in Oakland, California.
That why the Prophet Farakhan chose to endorse Barack Obama,
I feel that “Calypso Louie” hopes to legitimize the Black Muslim Movement
And the Nation of Islam.
From the shores of Maine to Alaska, from Montana to Alabama.
But what if McCain had been endorsed by the Klu Klux Klan,
Then that would raise an eyebrow or two,
I bet the KKK is secretly supporting the McCain campaign,
But unlike Farakhan they are not that stupid, they are not fools.
Because Farakhan did not help Barack’s campaign in fact hurt it,
Farakhan is too stupid to understand at least half of Americans are white,
At least half them are practicing Christians or Jews,
Far from practicing in the Nation of Islam.
What was Farakhan is thinking?
To have a semi-afro-American, or semi-black, mulatto or whatever,
Being in line for the prestigious elected post in the free world and possibly screw it up,
Man that is arrogance.
Barack did distance himself from endorsement,
But careful not to offend Farakhan,
Barack Obama is a politician after all,
He was raised Muslim but now he Christian, but in a way still attends a church with Christian separatists (?) ,
a spiritual oxymoron;
Just as moronic Black Muslims,
they’re different from Arab, Ghana, and Pakistani Muslims, right?
Black Catholics are different from Polish, Latino, and Asian Catholics.
Not So!
QUIZZICAL, YOU SAY?  What is this the answer to this political and spiritual cauldron?
But Obama will not tell people to not endorse him;
-that’s the endorser’s call.
(2-29-2008)
In the pitch darkness strange things can happen;
But unfortunately nowadays it happens in the daylight too.
* The title quoted from the book ' American Indian myths and legends' selected and edited by Richard Erdoes and Alfonso Ortiz.
-inuit-
(This violent story tells of a stormy encounter between a female sun and a male moon.)
Mr. Peter & my sister
This poem goes out to Mr. Peter
Who is a friend of my sister
And blow out my cover
In order to hide
I wrote my name backward
Until…the same day
My sister who is smart like Holmes
And Mr. Peter  who is a genius
Discovered my disguise
And ruined my surprise.
July 9,2005
Today, while I sit in my rocking chair to rest
Reminiscing the time that I loved the best,
In my vision I can once more see,
My beloved sister and brothers and even me.
The time of happiness that only our family knows,
Before the impending moment that maturity grows.
I am just reminiscing - they have gone their own way now.
Since then - my black hair has turned gray above the brow.
The house is still there -  no noise anymore,
No one to pick on, no wrestling on the floor,
No heavy footsteps, no laughter or glee,
My beloved sister's voice no longer calling me.
Many years of our life were spent apart,
My sister and brothers to new nests did part.
Something went amiss one sad day
When my beloved sister left to go far away.
I may have some pleasures and leisure from care,
But willingly, some of my possessions I'd gladly share
If only my beloved sister I could hold near,
For one cherishing moment of that long ago year.
She’s lying on the bed, comatose
No familiar faces around, she could stare
Ironic, there was a smell of calitos
Rising up breezily into the air
Somewhere, a patient has died
Of drug overdose
Superstition belief, is to bear
The curse’s door, is to close
Yesterday someone knocked her down
Whilst she was walking down the road
But no one could be found
As who to blame for the sin load
My brother, a sister and me
Watching helplessly
A mother’s love is about to cease
Taste of life will be bitter
God, help us please
You too have taken away our father
My brother, a sister and me
Will life be better?
Those we loved are no longer here
Eternal pains will be forever
My brother, a sister and me
Living in naive, poverty and fear
Thinking who will be
In the next tier,
Climbs to You
To be with our father
And…probably our mother
Too
08/01/2008
Re public of Singapore
I dedicate this poem to my sister.  who I love so much.
My Dear Sister
You may fall but I have your back
You may forget, but your schedule I have on track
You may forget me, but I won’t you
You may not remember what to do
But in this fight we’ll walk side by side
But whenever you need I’ll give you a ride
My Dear Sister
Do not fret
I’ll be the very best friend you’ve ever met
My dear sister when you are in need
The very words you say I will take heed
My Dear Sister
I love you so much
When your spirit wounded my shoulder is you crutch
My father buried my sister today
My soul burns red with pain
No longer will I touch her face
Or caress her skin again
My father buried my sister today
God, what have I done wrong
To have her stolen from my arms
When my faith in you was strong
My father buried my sister today
Thank God I have another
I couldn't walk this path alone
Every breath is a struggle
My father buried my sister today
She was just 20
Searing, ripping, tearing ache
My emotions overcome me
To God above, how I pray
These words by her not repeated
My father buried my daughter today
Greatness of a person is not measured by riches
Real importance lies in what the heart truly wishes
Accomplishing big things without love is useless
Continuous blessings when wasted become pointless
Enhancing one's wealth is not your sole dream I guess.
Boldness of character is not a guarantee
Right thing is made if applied wisely to see
A fulfilled future that secures good retirement
True happiness is not living in too much luxuries
Overwhelming zest is the freedom from worries.
Resources that you share for sake of charity
It will be marked as gesture of good quality
Of one real sister like you who is Godly.
My little sister is
always there when you need her.
My little sister is the
best little sister ever
and i would not trade her for anything.
My little sister has
a way of making everyone
laugh when they have a bad day.
My little sister is one of a kind
My little sister is annoying to,
but i still love her anyways.
My little sister
is also my best friend.
Dedicated to my sister Megan I Love you 4 ever
I never met my only sister
Never saw her save in dreams.
Sometimes she dressed in drifting mists,
Or else in filmy robes she lazed
In shades of lapis lazuli and chrysoprase.
Silver rings on her slim fingers,
See her dancing in the moonlight,
Swirling hair and golden skin.
I never met her, never kissed her
On the lips, breathed in her incense,
Heard her sing. I often sought her
In the mountains, through the thickets,
By the sea. When she whispers
In the springtime as the sun sinks
In the west, I will follow
Her wet footprints through the sand
And down into the hollow caverns
Underground, hear the sound of distant breakers
On the shores of darkened seas
Where the serpent waits his prey.
Far, far away, deep in the night
Shines the light of a moving star:
Through the murk and the fog, fully armed
Her crew on the watch, a vessel approaches—
The Boat of Ra with all the gods.
My sister in her glory on the deck
Calls to me across the water,
Will I come and join the crew,
Sail with Ra and her to be happy
Ever after in the Kingdom of the Dead?
Note: The ancient Egyptians believed that each night Ra, the sun god, with all his fellow gods and goddesses sailed in a boat through the night seas, fighting off all the evil demons and especially the evil and immortal serpent, Apep, which sought to swallow and destroy them. After what must have been a very stressful and tiring voyage they emerged at dawn.
MY PERFECT SISTER
My perfect sister holds me tight
My perfect sister kisses me goodnight
My perfect sister knows when I’m mad
My perfect sister helps me when I’m sad
My perfect sister is so smart
My perfect sister has my heart
My perfect sister is good and nice
My perfect sister holds me at night
My perfect sister loves me lots
My perfect sister ties the knot
My perfect sister is here to stay
My perfect sister I have until this very day
My perfect sister I wish you well
My perfect sister yes I can tell
My perfect sister asked if I lied
My perfect sister knows if I’ve cried
My perfect sister has moved away
->My perfect sister is in my heart to and will always stay<-
I love my sister so dear to my heart,
I love my sister even if we are apart.
She does not feel my love for her,
even though it is so apparent.
She is like an darling angel,
fluttering her graceful wings.
I hope she sees my love one day,
my sister so dear to me.
My sister please dont cry
My sister dry your eyes
My sister don't end your life
My sister your not his wife
My sister he's cold as a snake
My sister he's just a fake
My sister everything will be better when you wake
My sister Ive seen the pills you take
My sister he's full of lies
My sister don't even try
My sister your the one everyone likes
My sister don't start a fight
My sister it ends tonight
My sister I need you, don't end your life
My sister Laura's bigger than me
And lifts me up quite easily.
I can't lift her, I've tried and tried;
She must have something heavy inside.
You're the best sister I could have asked for
I pray thanks to god, that he gave you to me
We laugh together, and we cry together
We play and we fight
But in the end it's all alright
Your my sisterly companion, my partner in crime
You're my trustee confidant
We keep each others deepest secrets safe
And even though we're cousins by law & blood
We're sisters at heart, which is where it counts =]
Simply because you're my sister and you're my friend
Thank you so much for being the best sister I could EVER have!
Today, I feel like I've spent all of my life wandering
Waiting for some kind of miracle, for someone or something,
I feel like being a unique child was written in my fate
Because meeting my sister wasn't meant to make me wait.
I know that now the waiting is over, no more emptiness,
Because I met the one who could take me from my loneliness.
I know you are not perfect, but who would care
Perfection is nothing but a heavy burden to bear,
I know that since we became friends one year has gone by
But I've stopped counting the days: time is a lie,
I know that I knew you before I breathed my first breath
And that I will know you long after my death.
It happened almost a year ago, a second I won't forget
It was only one or two months after we really met
During a class, I was sleeping then started to open my eyes
You were half asleep, half sitting-half lying with no ties,
But the moment I looked into your eyes, I knew
That for you, anything, just anything, I would do.
That feeling struck me, like a full speed train
I was still sleepy, but I was far from being insane.
Then I completely woke up, and I understood, that day
That my life was just a path leading me to your way.
I might not know anything about your past
But I feel like I know every second you got past,
I might not know everything you have been through
But I know that the sorrow I see in your eyes is true,
I might not know how to erase it for a while
But I know that I can always try to make you smile.
I do not want to know your life or your story
Because to me, you will always be a mystery,
The present is all I care about, and you are the present
You are the reason that makes every day pleasant.
I don't know how many friends I lost through the years
I don't know how many times my eyes have poured tears
But I know that when I met you, I lost every single fear
Because you gave me more than a million reasons to cheer,
Because you gave me peace, and you gave me security
Because you knew how to throw in my life some serenity,
Because you were ideal in a single word
And you were unique in an immense world.
I know that I never told you what is on this paper
And that I always told myself: it should happen later...
But time is going by, and losses are all my fright
So I should say what's on my heart, before this night
Since speaking is not my strength, I am using my rhymes
Forgive me, but I tried to talk and failed so many times.
There are so many things I would like to say
But I can't seem to get them out in any way,
These are buried in me, and there shall they stay
Until the end of eternity plus one day,
You got into my life and brought with you pleasure
Every moment I'm allowed to be with you, I treasure
And every moment I have to say goodbye, I hate
But I know that our next meeting won't be too late.
I now know that I was blessed since the start
Because in my life, you were meant to play a part.
I am really short of words and expressions...
I would like to add one sentence:
Thank you for being you,
For crossing my existence,
For everything that you do,
For being sociable and shy
For every moment we did share,
And the joy I couldn't deny,
For your attention, your care
For every smile, every word
Thank you again and again
For being in this world
My sister and my friend.
To May.
My sister holds me tight
My sister kisses me goodnight
My sister knows when I’m mad
My sister helps me when I’m sad
My sister is so smart
My sister has my heart
My sister loves me lots
My sister ties the knots
My sister is here to stay
My sister I have until this very day
My sister I wish you well
My sister yes I can tell
My sister asked if I lied
My sister knows if I’ve cried
My sister has moved away
My sister is in my heart to and will always stay
My sister my sister,
Is not the best.
My sister my sister,
Oh give it a rest.
My sister my sister,
Stop with the drama.
My sister my sister,
Dumb as a llama.
My sister my sister,
I'm not supposed to see.
My sister my sister,
Dumb as can be.
Here, I sit full of gloom
All alone in my very own room
It's enough to make me weep..
All because of that little creep
Sister is a rotten, horrid child
And that is just putting it very mild
She is bad to a great extent
But its my reputation that is getting bent
Little sisters are a real big pain
She ruins my homework after I've racked my brain
She bothers me when I have a guest
And always acts like a royal pest
Once she spilled a chocolate malt
Then told mom it was all my fault
Whenever we get into a fight
I'm in the doghouse all the night
That's the trouble with being old
When there's trouble, you get the scold
But wait, I wont be sad
Instead, I will be glad
'Cuz now I'm mad at my dumb sister
And her little but I'm going to blister
This house will no longer be so wild
Because..... I'm going to become an only child
Memories shared -
Intense feelings of closeness -
Total honesy -
Warm morning sunlight through windows -
The miracle of life shared -
Unforgettable -
Emotions felt deep within my heart -
Friend for life -
Unconditional love -
My sister x
Saturday April 6th 2002
My sister says i hate her,
she does, she does!
My sister says she hates me,
she does, she does!
My sister doesn't know i love her,
she doesn't, she doesn't!
i don't know if my sister loves me,
i don't, i don't!
My sister
She is my sister, not by blood
But rather by love
When i cry she wipes away the tears
When i hide she takes away my fears
Always and forever will i love my sister
Faithful and loyal she does remain
Protecting me from a world of despise
Listening to everyone of my cries
With arms wide open she nurtures me
and keeps away all that is wrong
She keeps me on track, never letting me stray
To my sugestions she will never say 'nay'
Thank you my sister for all that you have done
For without you all would be wrong
I love you my sister, with all my heart i do
The love for my sister is all true
In Memory of Audrey (wherever she may be)
I remember my sister;
For as the years past we grew.
Though our bodies changed,
Heartaches never do.
We could not accept the emotion,
Of hate that raged our souls,
Which had destroyed all our dreams,
And shattered all our goals.
I remember my sister;
The sobbing in the night,
A haunting string of memories,
That little ones can't fight.
The yelling and the screams,
Which echo in my mind,
Echoes of yesterday,
That I cannot leave behind.
I remember my sister,
The sadness in her voice,
Teardrops coming to surface,
Hidden in desperate choice.
Trying to hide it from others,
So no one could ever guess,
What happened in our house,
That we could not confess.
I remember my sister;
We were very young.
We would stay awake all night,
And await the rising of the sun,
For it was the only beauty,
In the ugliness of our world.
It was the only brightness,
For a scared little girl.
I remember my sister;
She was older than me,
Only by two years,
But that didn't matter to me.
The importance was escape,
From the prison of our life,
And the pain we had to live with-
The despair and the strife.
I remember my sister;
When the wind blows the trees...
We would watch out the window,
Leaves fall in the autumn breeze.
We'd try to dissolve into the loveliness,
That nature held unbound,
To taste the fruit of happiness,
A song without a sound.
I remember my sister;
The shelter I had with her near.
I knew she would protect me,
Whenever I would fear.
I saw something in her eyes,
A flicker of sweet hope,
That someday we would escape,
And somehow we would cope.
I remember my sister;
The night she said 'good-bye, '
To escape the walls of darkness,
Where children's dreams die.
I begged her not to leave me,
How could I bear it alone?
My tears reflected the sadness,
Which cut me to the bone.
I remember my sister;
The last words I heard her speak,
Like the tender song of a swallow,
Which had first discovered its beak.
She told me not to worry,
She would return for me very soon,
To hold on to the memories,
The darkness could not consume.
I remember my sister;
When she left me behind,
And skipped into the sunlight,
Which overwhelms my mind.
Many nights I think of her,
Wherever she may be,
A part of me skips with her,
As it will always be....
*Note*
I wrote this poem for my older sister Wendi. I worte it this year for her for Mother's Day. I love you sis! !
*Poem*
As I think about it more and more each day, it comes clearer to me.
What I feel in my heart is no lie.
It is all real.
Back in the day we didn't get along that well.
Most of the time we did nothing but fight.
Day after day there were sheded tears and sometimes sheded blood.
I know that you never meant to hurt me.
I never meant to hurt you.
Everything got crazy right quick as I got in high school.
No matter what I did you were right there.
You took me in under your wing and loved me.
We had our share of pain.
I have and always will look up to you as a second mother.
I am sorry for everything that I have done that caused you pain.
Thanks for being my bestfriend.
I would never ask God for another sister.
No one can or will ever take the sister bond that we have.
Thank you for the two beautiful Angels that you brought in to this world.
I never regret God letting me be the luckiest lil sister in the world, by having you as a big sister.
You are and forever will be my hero, my sister, my bestfriend, and my mom.
I love you! ! Happy Mother's Day! !
Lovealways your lil sis,
Loretta 'Boo' (That's my sister's nickname for me. She has always called me that every since we were little.)
My sister always
is not
a good listener.
What ever
I need to tell her,
she almost always
isn't there.
Shrugging me away
my sister always seems
to be doing.
I don't understand
Why?
A helping hand
needs to be.
When I need someone
it seems,
you are there.....
Yet, she doesn't see.....That I try.....
She seems so blind.....I try to confind.....
Like to do, with you.
My sister shows little interest
in what I need,
and pays too much attention
in how I show it.
She doesn't give me any time or day.....
How do you suppose I do.....
If I want to be freinds
my sister won't let me.
It leaves me very sad.....
and empty.....
Neverless, it hurts
and makes me
feel like dirt.....
Do I need to keep giving to show how much effect I do.....
I keep living without her,
as close as we are
never going to be.
.....between her and me
things don't have to be this way.
What must I do.....
I wish she could see that we're adults.
I feel she still continues to insult.
Doesn't want me in her life.
I use all my strife to have
some kind of relationship with
My sister.....I miss her
My sister: helicopter
rescue carrier
floating in sea that others
may fly
My sister the mother bird
restrained
by nestlings
teaching them to
soar in the sky
My sister the lake
remaining in quarry
that thirsty babies
may come to drink
My sister the guru with eyes
so starry
carrying more weight that
others not sink.
My sister the last to leave the ship
making sure that all others are safe
My sister the Statue of Liberty
taking all weary all starving heart waifs
My sister the flower
who blooms where she's planted
that lonely bees may come to sup
My sister the gentle ear
which listens
and gives of her heart's
always full loving cup
(to N)
She has a new sister who writes poetry
A poet I will never be
I am writing this poem as a plea
That maybe she will contact me
I know she doesn't like poems that rhyme
So I doubt very much that she'll like mine
I hope this shows how much I miss her
Oh but to be my sister's sister
The anticipation grows each day
To see my little sister appear and say
Carolyn I love you so
Thankyou for being the sister I know
I talk some days to my mums tiny bump
And see this huge explosive thump
Is this my sister already talking to me?
i really hope so I guess ill soon see
all the love and care inside
builds each day it can not hide
it is all made for this one little girl
my first sister to be my mums little pearl
in a few weeks ill no longer be
this “only child”, its no longer just me
this is definitely not a bad thing
I already love my unborn sibling
When she appears we will all celebrate
Me, mum and Jase we really cant wait
To see her little face awaken  and shine
This really will be a happy time
So to you my little unborn sibling
After 17 years I now know what I have been missing
A little sister to love and hold near
And that baby girl is you my dear
Night is my sister, and how deep in love,
How drowned in love and weedily washed ashore,
There to be fretted by the drag and shove
At the tide's edge, I lie—these things and more:
Whose arm alone between me and the sand,
Whose voice alone, whose pitiful breath brought near,
Could thaw these nostrils and unlock this hand,
She could advise you, should you care to hear.
Small chance, however, in a storm so black,
A man will leave his friendly fire and snug
For a drowned woman's sake, and bring her back
To drip and scatter shells upon the rug.
No one but Night, with tears on her dark face,
Watches beside me in this windy place.
14
One Sister have I in our house,
And one, a hedge away.
There's only one recorded,
But both belong to me.
One came the road that I came—
And wore my last year's gown—
The other, as a bird her nest,
Builded our hearts among.
She did not sing as we did—
It was a different tune—
Herself to her a music
As Bumble bee of June.
Today is far from Childhood—
But up and down the hills
I held her hand the tighter—
Which shortened all the miles—
And still her hum
The years among,
Deceives the Butterfly;
Still in her Eye
The Violets lie
Mouldered this many May.
I spilt the dew—
But took the morn—
I chose this single star
From out the wide night's numbers—
Sue - forevermore!
On this thy natal day permit a friend -
A brother - with thy joys his own to blend:
In all gladness he would wish to share
As willing in thy griefs a part to bear.
Meekly attend the ways of higher heav'n!
Is much deny'd? Yet much my dear is giv'n.
Thy health, thy reason unimpaired remain
And while as new fal'n snows thy spotless fame
The partner of thy life, attentive - kind -
And blending e'en the interests of the mind.
What bliss is thine when fore thy glistring eye
Thy lovely infant train pass jocund by!
The ruddy cheek, the smiling morning face
Denote a healthy undegenerate race:
In them renew'd, you'll live and live again,
And children's children's children lisp thy name.
Bright be the skies where'er my sister goes
Nor scowling tempests injure her repose -
The field of life with roses thick be strow'd
Nor one sharp thorn lie lurking in the road.
Thy ev'ry path be still a path of peace
And each revolving year thy joys increase;
Till hours and years of time itself be o'er
And one eternal day around thee pour.
She was always  up early before sunrise
Prepared her teaching kit  and some provision
To catch an early ride is a prize
And to be with her students was her great mission
Happily  she gave all her earnings  to our mother
She have to save enough, no parties, no boyfriend
Oh, she loves us very much, she was a dear
She is a sister, a loving daughter, she is a friend
She loves to dance and  sing at her heart's content
Even in the wee hours, we're on top of the world
I missed her every now and then
And my love for her that was  never told
To a far away place she went
Life then was not easy to keep afloat each day
And so all her earnings she sent
And saved enough for rainy day.
Her loving arms always gives me the strength
Whenever i have struggle and pain
To be down on my knees and at length
And take up the Cross, be yourself  again
I cannot hold her hands and hug her forever
God had taken her to her permanent home in heaven
But her beautiful memories will always linger
In my mind.. in my heart, she was a heaven sent
My special tribute to my sister Lyn
Note:
born on April 17,1945
died: Oct.2,2004
She died of cervical cancer
SISTER, awake! close not your eyes!
The day her light discloses,
And the bright morning doth arise
Out of her bed of roses.
See the clear sun, the world's bright eye,
In at our window peeping:
Lo, how he blusheth to espy
Us idle wenches sleeping!
Therefore awake! make haste, I say,
And let us, without staying,
All in our gowns of green so gay
Into the Park a-maying!
Love
Touch life with the charm of soul
Love as star shines
As the rain falls
Love smiles
Thinking about love
Wondering if she love
Is strong in brother heart
She said sweet talking man
You mister sweet talking man
Yet the truth must be heard
Watch out love coming
Surrender try one love
Close to find what brings
The sister to accepted the brother
Walk talk love
Feel the blessing
Of the eyes of love on life
It about the sister with brown eyes
Smiles that warm the heart
It about sister with the braids
About skin kiss by YAH love
Just right the shade darkness
It a dream come to life
In sister of soul
Cat stands at the fridge,
Cries loudly for milk.
But I've filled her bowl.
Wild cat, I say, Sister,
Look, you have milk.
I clink my fingernail
Against the rim. Milk.
With down and liver,
A word I know she hears.
Her sad miaow. She runs
To me. She dips
In her whiskers but
Doesn't drink. As sometimes
I want the light on
When it is on. Or when
I saw the woman walking
toward my house and
I thought there's Frances.
Then looked in the car mirror
To be sure. She stalks
The room. She wants. Milk
Beyond milk. World beyond
This one, she cries.
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the lighthouse engulfed in fog
Shining it’s beacon of light
That guides through stormy seas
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the soft whispers carried on a breeze
As it rustles through  copper colored leaves
Words of encouragement
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the snow capped mountains
Majestic peaks against a soft hue of blue
The epitome of strength
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the vast meadows of wildflowers
A motley of colors put on display
Simplifying beauty
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
To the endless skies overhead
And it’s never-ending exhibit of light and dark
Infinite
Sister
Do I dare to compare your love
Sister, Friend, Why!
Sister, friend, you are so beautiful.
Why do you let him put you down?
Yelling, screaming, hitting, insults, cries of pain.
Sister, friend, you are a child of God.
When are you going to let go and give it to God?
Start walking, run, don't turn back.
Jesus is holding His hand out, smile and say, I am free.
Go, sister, friend, positive energy, laughing, smiling,
Beautiful face, tall and erect stature.
Welcome back, there goes my friend.
Welcome back....
Adrienne Clark Strachn
For my special girlfriend
"Why did you melt your waxen man
Sister Helen?
To-day is the third since you began."
"The time was long, yet the time ran,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Three days to-day, between Hell and Heaven!)
"But if you have done your work aright,
Sister Helen,
You'll let me play, for you said I might."
"Be very still in your play to-night,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Third night, to-night, between Hell and Heaven!)
"You said it must melt ere vesper-bell,
Sister Helen;
If now it be molten, all is well."
"Even so,--nay, peace! you cannot tell,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
O what is this, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Oh the waxen knave was plump to-day,
Sister Helen;
How like dead folk he has dropp'd away!"
"Nay now, of the dead what can you say,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What of the dead, between Hell and Heaven?)
"See, see, the sunken pile of wood,
Sister Helen,
Shines through the thinn'd wax red as blood!"
"Nay now, when look'd you yet on blood,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
How pale she is, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Now close your eyes, for they're sick and sore,
Sister Helen,
And I'll play without the gallery door."
"Aye, let me rest,--I'll lie on the floor,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What rest to-night, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Here high up in the balcony,
Sister Helen,
The moon flies face to face with me."
"Aye, look and say whatever you see,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What sight to-night, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Outside it's merry in the wind's wake,
Sister Helen;
In the shaken trees the chill stars shake."
"Hush, heard you a horse-tread as you spake,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What sound to-night, between Hell and Heaven?)
"I hear a horse-tread, and I see,
Sister Helen,
Three horsemen that ride terribly."
"Little brother, whence come the three,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Whence should they come, between Hell and Heaven?)
"They come by the hill-verge from Boyne Bar,
Sister Helen,
And one draws nigh, but two are afar."
"Look, look, do you know them who they are,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Who should they be, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Oh, it's Keith of Eastholm rides so fast,
Sister Helen,
For I know the white mane on the blast."
"The hour has come, has come at last,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Her hour at last, between Hell and Heaven!)
"He has made a sign and called Halloo!
Sister Helen,
And he says that he would speak with you."
"Oh tell him I fear the frozen dew,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Why laughs she thus, between Hell and Heaven?)
"The wind is loud, but I hear him cry,
Sister Helen,
That Keith of Ewern's like to die."
"And he and thou, and thou and I,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
And they and we, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Three days ago, on his marriage-morn,
Sister Helen,
He sicken'd, and lies since then forlorn."
"For bridegroom's side is the bride a thorn,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Cold bridal cheer, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Three days and nights he has lain abed,
Sister Helen,
And he prays in torment to be dead."
"The thing may chance, if he have pray'd,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
If he have pray'd, between Hell and Heaven!)
"But he has not ceas'd to cry to-day,
Sister Helen,
That you should take your curse away."
"My prayer was heard,--he need but pray,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Shall God not hear, between Hell and Heaven?)
"But he says, till you take back your ban,
Sister Helen,
His soul would pass, yet never can."
"Nay then, shall I slay a living man,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
A living soul, between Hell and Heaven!)
"But he calls for ever on your name,
Sister Helen,
And says that he melts before a flame."
"My heart for his pleasure far'd the same,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Fire at the heart, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Here's Keith of Westholm riding fast,
Sister Helen,
For I know the white plume on the blast."
"The hour, the sweet hour I forecast,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Is the hour sweet, between Hell and Heaven?)
"He stops to speak, and he stills his horse,
Sister Helen;
But his words are drown'd in the wind's course."
"Nay hear, nay hear, you must hear perforce,
Little brother!" .
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What word now heard, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Oh he says that Keith of Ewern's cry,
Sister Helen,
Is ever to see you ere he die."
"In all that his soul sees, there am I
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
The soul's one sight, between Hell and Heaven!)
"He sends a ring and a broken coin,
Sister Helen,
And bids you mind the banks of Boyne."
"What else he broke will he ever join,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
No, never join'd, between Hell and Heaven!)
"He yields you these and craves full fain,
Sister Helen,
You pardon him in his mortal pain."
"What else he took will he give again,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Not twice to give, between Hell and Heaven!)
"He calls your name in an agony,
Sister Helen,
That even dead Love must weep to see."
"Hate, born of Love, is blind as he,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Love turn'd to hate, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Oh it's Keith of Keith now that rides fast,
Sister Helen,
For I know the white hair on the blast."
"The short short hour will soon be past,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Will soon be past, between Hell and Heaven!)
"He looks at me and he tries to speak,
Sister Helen,
But oh! his voice is sad and weak!"
"What here should the mighty Baron seek,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Is this the end, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Oh his son still cries, if you forgive,
Sister Helen,
The body dies but the soul shall live."
"Fire shall forgive me as I forgive,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
As she forgives, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Oh he prays you, as his heart would rive,
Sister Helen,
To save his dear son's soul alive."
"Fire cannot slay it, it shall thrive,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Alas, alas, between Hell and Heaven!)
"He cries to you, kneeling in the road,
Sister Helen,
To go with him for the love of God!"
"The way is long to his son's abode,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
The way is long, between Hell and Heaven!)
"A lady's here, by a dark steed brought,
Sister Helen,
So darkly clad, I saw her not."
"See her now or never see aught,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What more to see, between Hell and Heaven?)
"Her hood falls back, and the moon shines fair,
Sister Helen,
On the Lady of Ewern's golden hair."
"Blest hour of my power and her despair,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Hour blest and bann'd, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Pale, pale her cheeks, that in pride did glow,
Sister Helen,
'Neath the bridal-wreath three days ago."
"One morn for pride and three days for woe,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Three days, three nights, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Her clasp'd hands stretch from her bending head,
Sister Helen;
With the loud wind's wail her sobs are wed."
"What wedding-strains hath her bridal-bed,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What strain but death's, between Hell and Heaven?)
"She may not speak, she sinks in a swoon,
Sister Helen,--
She lifts her lips and gasps on the moon."
"Oh! might I but hear her soul's blithe tune,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Her woe's dumb cry, between Hell and Heaven!)
"They've caught her to Westholm's saddle-bow,
Sister Helen,
And her moonlit hair gleams white in its flow."
"Let it turn whiter than winter snow,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Woe-wither'd gold, between Hell and Heaven!)
"O Sister Helen, you heard the bell,
Sister Helen!
More loud than the vesper-chime it fell."
"No vesper-chime, but a dying knell,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
His dying knell, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Alas! but I fear the heavy sound,
Sister Helen;
Is it in the sky or in the ground?"
"Say, have they turn'd their horses round,
Little brother?"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
What would she more, between Hell and Heaven?)
"They have rais'd the old man from his knee,
Sister Helen,
And they ride in silence hastily."
"More fast the naked soul doth flee,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
The naked soul, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Flank to flank are the three steeds gone,
Sister Helen,
But the lady's dark steed goes alone."
"And lonely her bridegroom's soul hath flown,
Little brother."
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
The lonely ghost, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Oh the wind is sad in the iron chill,
Sister Helen,
And weary sad they look by the hill."
"But he and I are sadder still,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Most sad of all, between Hell and Heaven!)
"See, see, the wax has dropp'd from its place,
Sister Helen,
And the flames are winning up apace!"
"Yet here they burn but for a space,
Little brother! "
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Here for a space, between Hell and Heaven!)
"Ah! what white thing at the door has cross'd,
Sister Helen?
Ah! what is this that sighs in the frost?"
"A soul that's lost as mine is lost,
Little brother!"
(O Mother, Mary Mother,
Lost, lost, all lost, between Hell and Heaven!)
Sister-in-law has got special position
All liberties but close relation out of question
So much praise showered on her with special mention
Husband praises  without any hesitation
She stands as half wife for full wife
Vacancy is filled when situation is rife
Not to worry for any good flirt
Wife has to remain quiet but always alert,
No sweet but good and colourful relation,
Happy moments and adding to elations,
No tension and worry when she is around,
You can have  easy walk on slippery ground
Husbands take pride in having in law
Don’t find fault or any other flaw
Always ready and anxious to  care
Prefer all relation but to be seen no where
Wives too happy and share lenient views
Allows no  freedom which is undue
After all, in law is her real sister
Above all, husband is her real mister
So long not married, everything goes well
After her departure, it turns into hell
No one is prepared for stories to tell
It was only phase not much to dwell
Even kids may prefer in law to mother
Not even look in home even at father
This doesn’t drive them crazy any more
No one takes note and stress or bother
This is delicate relation and bound to suffer
Many ups and downs with stories to offer
Many may argue with difference of opinion
After al it is sister-in- law and not the companion
WHEN Sister Jane, who had produced a child,
In prayer and penance all her hours beguiled
Her sister-nuns around the lattice pressed;
On which the abbess thus her flock addressed:
Live like our sister Jane, and bid adieu
To worldly cares:--have better things in view.
YES, they replied, we sage like her shall be,
When we with love have equally been free.
Sister, my sister
I wish you were I said too carelessly
As I gazed into her face tanned so flawlessly
Now that’s a tongue twister said the minister
A sister can give you a life full of painful blisters
And so I looked at her thoughtlessly
My spirit was high with hope restlessly
And I replied, “But sister my sister so can a geezer”
She held my hand and laughed and cried
A friend can be stronger than blood
And what we have is a far greater treasure
But when I stared at her I knew she lied
A sister is a treasure no one can measure
But no one can love you more than God
Copyright 2013 Sylvia Chidi
Sister of mine, please know that I miss you,
As miles seperate us in life as we roam.
I close my eyes and we're still together…
Splashing in puddles as we skip toward home.
Picking wish-flowers and making mud-pies,
In fields of Summer, under apricot skies.
Oh it really does seem like yesterday,
And I'll always remember us this way.
Sister of mine, please know that I love you,
No distance on earth, could alter this truth.
Not a day passes, that I don't think of you,
And far-away playgrounds in dreams of youth.
Sister, please hold my hand
As we journey through this land
Together we stand, together we will fall
No matter what, God will keep us together
That will be the best of all
Sister, please hold my hand
Because without you I can't stand
For we were put on this earth for a reason
To go through every good and bad season
Sister, please hold my hand
As our strength, together, builds each other to become strong
So that our love for each other will last long
Sister my dear sister I wish that I could see you everyday,
so you can tell me your not alone and heaven is okay,
I need something to help me carry on,
cause I cant except the fact that your gone,
trying to hide the tears,
because of my pride eventhough I'm dying inside,
deep in my soul a sorrow haunted by every tommorrow,
cause your not there waiting,
its not fair my heart is fading,
all I should of said will never be,
never got to say what you meant to me,
or to our whole family,
so sister my dear sister I'll start living a better way,
so you can welcome me home someday.
Sister you are one of the nicest thing that i have,
and the best thing you can be,
Sister you are treasure,
You are the most valuable gift! !
You are someone who's always there for me,
You are feeling of forever in my heart,
I haven't found  words,
Enough to express
How special place you hold in my hearts.
She lived shut in by flowers and trees
And shade of gentle bigotries.
On this side lay the trackless sea,
On that the great world's mystery;
But all unseen and all unguessed
They could not break upon her rest.
The world's far splendors gleamed and flashed,
Afar the wild seas foamed and dashed;
But in her small, dull Paradise,
Safe housed from rapture or surprise,
Nor day nor night had power to fright
The peace of God that filled her eyes.
Sister, sister
save my soul
sister, sister
don't leave me alone.
Sister, sister
he is here
sister, sister
he grows near.
Sister, sister
hold me tight
sister, sister
put up a fight.
Sister, sister
don't let go
sister, sister
stay with me.
Sister, sister
don't please him
sister, sister
it's not worth it.
Sister, sister
tell him no
sister sister
please don't go.
Sister, sister
please come back
sister, sister
take off that sack.
Sister, sister
don't give in
sister, sister
have faith in Him.
Sister, sister
wipe your tears
sister, sister
fight your fears.
Sister, sister
please stay strong
sister, sister
you know this is wrong.
Sister, sister
please forgive me
sister, sister
don't try to save me.
Sister, sister
you are free
sister, sister
get off your knees.
sister, sister
please, don't forget me.
Sister Sister
My sister is funny
she likes to eat money
I can't wait till she goes to school
she might have a lot of work to do
I will have to teach her how to spell
I never want to be in hell
My Sister is a tease
She is always making me freeze
She is so great
I do believe in fate
I am only seven
But I know all about heaven
My sister is almost two
I will have to teach her to tie her shoes
My sister I love to death
She is sometimes a mess
My sister i will never forget
She needs to learn not to hit
SISTER SISTER
I love you so
Thank you for being my sister
I will miss you so
'When I received that love which is a face,
When I perceived that face which is a love,
Two voices, like those two old nations, strove
Within my heart, and the first-born gave place
And served the younger. 'Ah this golden space
Doth cage the airy pinions of my dove!
And ah this value, which might prove and more
Another love, seems simony to the grace
Of ours!' Thus while one passion doth protest,
The other cries: 'I care not how it be!
For, givest thou much or little, worst or best,
Nor am I richer nor thou dispossest;
My fond subtraction is still thine in me,
And all thy dear remainder mine in thee!''
God gave her beauteous body and long hair!
Intelligent, she prayed really hard;
She spoke fluently and looked very fair;
As doctor, she was superb in the ward.
But suddenly, her dad had fallen ill;
She looked after him ‘like a nurse’ by day;
‘Insulined’ making urine sugar ‘Nil’!
She worked as doctor by night far away!
God bless’d her with good husband, three children;
Her Practice too is good but life is tough;
She tends to mother more than eighty when
She develops chest-cold and nasty cough.
God bless my doctor sister for her feat!
Help her in times of woes: devils defeat.
Sweet sister dear
Remember those years
We cried together,
Dropped many tears
Saw the fights,
Were afraid of lights,
The bottles lined up
And the pills in our sights
Now we are older
More lives at stake
Not just our own anymore
Our kids’ care we take
All the tears we have now
The powerless feelings grown
All the damage our family did
In our adulthood now shown
Please sister dear
Don’t cry anymore
I will dry your tears
As you have done with me before
Remember I love you and I am here
Remember with us as a pair there is no more fear.
Thank you sister
for being there for me
you were there in my time in need
Thank you sister
for loving me
you had my back when people comfronted me
Thank you sister
when times got bad
you stood by me as no one had
And Thank you sister
like i have before
but this time sister
it means so much more.
I wish there were words I can say
what I feel from day to day
Nobody knows what I'd do
For abother moment with you
I remember your smile
it would keep me going an extra mile
I remember all the great time we shared
cause your the one who truly cared
You said you'd always be there
now your gone, its just not fair!
Why did you take your life
only memories are left to remember you by.
I would give anything to have you back
without you my life has been a wreck
I wish there was a way to fill this empty space
But no one could take your place!
As I think about it more and more each day,
It comes clearer to me.
What I feel in my heart is no lie.
It is real.
When we were little,
We didn’t get along that well,
And all we did was fight.
Sometimes I sat there and shed my tears.
I knew that you didn’t mean to hurt me.
I never mean to hurt you.
Now everything is going to get crazy right quick as you get into
High School.
No matter what you do I’ll be right there.
You will take me under your wing and love me.
WE have our share of pain.
I have and will always look up to you.
Thanks for being my best friend,
A hero, and being a loving, superb sister.
I would never ask god for another soul like you.
No one can or will ever take away the sister bond that we have.
Thank you god,
For the beautiful angel that you brought into this world.
I am the luckiest little sister in the world,
By having you as my big sister.
You are and forever will be my best friend,
Hero, and loving superb sister.
I just have to say you will be in my heart and I will never forget you,
And I hope these days are the most excellent days of your                     life.
Maternity Hospital
Our sister sayeth such and such,
And we must bow to her behests.
Our sister toileth overmuch,
Our little maid that hath no breasts.
A field untilled, a web unwove,
A flower withheld from sun or bee,
An alien in the Courts of Love,
And--teacher unto such as we!
We love her, but we laugh the while,
We laugh, but sobs are mixed with laughter;
Our sister hath no time to smile,
She knows not what must follow after.
Wind of the South, arise and blow,
From beds of spice thy locks shake free;
Breathe on her heart that she may know,
Breathe on her eyes that she may see!
Alas! we vex her with our mirth,
And maze her with most tender scorn,
Who stands beside the Gates of Birth,
Herself a child--a child unborn!
Our sister sayeth such and such,
And we must bow to her behests.
Our sister toileth overmuch,
Our little maid that hath no breasts.
The woman I call sister
will always be there
The woman I call sister
is a person that will always care
The woman I call sister
is a person I will always love
The woman I call sister
is a blessing from God above
The woman I call sister
will stay true till the end
The woman I call sister
will be my best friend
So the woman I call sister
will be the blood related one
And the woman I call sister
will be the ONLY one :)
The woman I call sister
Is someone who is there
The woman I call sister
Is someone who always cares.
The woman I call sister
Can make me smile when times are blue
The woman I call sister
Is someone very true.
The woman I call sister
By choice, is my best of friend
The woman I call sister
Will be there till the end
The woman I call sister
Is the blessing from God above
The woman I call sister
Is the sister that I'll always love.
Sister, my sister
Why is it that you speak so loud?
Is it your way to be noticed?
Or your way to make yourself count?
Tell me sister, who will listen?
Who will see?
The words coming out of your mouth
are only those of hatred and bitterness
turning the beautiful sight of you into an ugly one
Why my sister
Is it that you don’t care?
Is it your arrogance
That you appearently seem to think is fine?
Is it your ignorance
Which is obvious when you say those stupid things
Or is it just you being self-centered
Thinking that’s what the worlds looking for?
No, my lovely sister
Is that really all there’s to know about you?
Is that all you have to give?
I know better
You know better and guess what
The world knows better
So lift yourself up sister
And finally be proud of the queen you truely are!
(Amsterdam,26 august 2007)
Loving Sister: every line
Of your last letter was so fine
With the best mettle, that the grayne
Of Scrivener's pindust were but vayne:
The touch of Gold did sure instill
Some vertue more than did the Quill.
And since you write noe cleanly hand
Your token bids mee understand
Mine eyes have here a remedy
Wherby to reade more easily.
I doe but jeast: your love alone
Is my interpretation:
My words I will recant, and sweare
I know your hand is wondrous faire.
We will not like those men our offerings pay
Who crown the cup, then think they crown the day.
We make no garlands, nor an altar build,
Which help not Joy, but Ostentation yield.
Where mirth is justly grounded these wild toyes
Are but a troublesome, and empty noise.
2.
But these shall be my great Solemnities,
Orinda's wishes for Cassandra's bliss.
May her Content be as unmix'd and pure
As my Affection, and like that endure;
And that strong Happiness may she still find
Not owing to her Fortune, but her Mind.
3.
May her Content and Duty be the same,
And may she know no Grief but in the name.
May his and her Pleasure and Love be so
Involv'd and growing, that we may not know
Who most Affection or most Peace engrost;
Whose Love is strongest, or whose Bliss is most.
4.
May nothing accidental e're appear
But what shall with new bonds their Souls endear;
And may they count the hours as they pass,
By their own Joys, and not by Sun or Glass:
While every day like this may Sacred prove
To Friendship, Gratitude, and Strictest Love.
Im sorry for all the mean things I said
Im sorry for ever time I yelled at you.
Im sorry for leaving the house when Im mad.
Im sorry for not being there for you.
You shuldent be the one thats sick.
If I could, Id take away all the pain.
All the Meds, and the Doctors visits.
If I had the choice, I would rather be sick.
You have all your life to live
And all the time left.
You dont deserve this
No one does.
To my little sister,
Im sorry
And
I love you.
To my sister on her wedding day
I am happy to say,
You're love is peur for this man hear,
And he wont throe her love away.
They will be happy,
I know
So i am happy to say it is her wedding day.
It is the first mild day of March:
Each minute sweeter than before
The redbreast sings from the tall larch
That stands beside our door.
There is a blessing in the air,
Which seems a sense of joy to yield
To the bare trees, and mountains bare,
And grass in the green field.
My sister! ('tis a wish of mine)
Now that our morning meal is done,
Make haste, your morning task resign;
Come forth and feel the sun.
Edward will come with you;--and, pray,
Put on with speed your woodland dress;
And bring no book: for this one day
We'll give to idleness.
No joyless forms shall regulate
Our living calendar:
We from to-day, my Friend, will date
The opening of the year.
Love, now a universal birth,
From heart to heart is stealing,
From earth to man, from man to earth:
--It is the hour of feeling.
One moment now may give us more
Than years of toiling reason:
Our minds shall drink at every pore
The spirit of the season.
Some silent laws our hearts will make,
Which they shall long obey:
We for the year to come may take
Our temper from to-day.
And from the blessed power that rolls
About, below, above,
We'll frame the measure of our souls:
They shall be tuned to love.
Then come, my Sister! come, I pray,
With speed put on your woodland dress;
And bring no book: for this one day
We'll give to idleness.
There is a wise lady
Who inspires my life.
This sweet woman
Is my uncles wife.
She has always been there
Through thick and thin.
She has never let me down
Even when things were dim.
She holds the key
That goes to my heart.
No one else can get through,
The walls just wont part.
No one else will ever know
Exactly how I feel,
But this wonderful lady
Has shown me best friends are real.
She knows everything about me,
Both inside and out.
Whenever I need her,
I only need to shout.
On a stormy night in winter,
When the winds blew cold and wet,
I heard some strains of music
That I never can forget.
I was sleeping in the cabin,
Where liv'd Mary fair and young,
When a light shone in the window,
And a band of singers sung.
We are coming sister Mary,
We are coming bye and bye,
Be ready sister Mary,
For the time is drawing nigh.
I tried to tell my Mary,
But my tongue would not obey,
When the song so strange had ended,
And the singers flown away,
As I watch'd I heard a rustling,
Like the rustling of a wing,
And beside my Mary's pillow
Very soon I heard them sing.
Then again I called my Mary,
But my sorrow was complete
For I found her heart of kindness
Had forever ceas'd to beat
And I still am very lonely
From summer round to spring
And I oft in midnight slumber
Think I hear the same ones sing.
You are my sister
untill the very end
You are my sister
you are my best friend
You are my sister
you cheer me up when i feel blue
You are my sister
forever you'll be true
You are my sister
the loving and supporting one
You are my sister
and the one i will always love
You got my sister pregnant and refused to take responsibility.
You told her it's her problem and now you have to deal with me.
Let's step outside and deal with this like men.
When I get done, you won't shirk your responsibility again.
You told her to have an abortion even after she decided to have the child.
Now I'm pissed off and I'm about to go wild.
You refused to marry my sister but you will pay child support.
Or I'll beat the hell out of you and then take you to court.
Take my word when I tell you that it's wise not to mess with me.
I weigh nearly two hundred pounds and I stand six feet three.
To my sister Julia, who will do great things...
We never had planned this
We never tried.
You're a siter, my sister,
And I still ask why.
All the fighting and noise
And pulling hair;
You're a sister, my sister,
And it's just not fair.
We're sisters, and sometimes
I regret it.
Yet because of you, I'll
Never forget it!
BUT...
Through our ups and downs
This much is true:
You're a sister, my sister,
And I still love you.
A BOAT beneath a sunny sky,
Lingering onward dreamily
In an evening of July --
Children three that nestle near,
Eager eye and willing ear,
Pleased a simple tale to hear --
Long has paled that sunny sky:
Echoes fade and memories die:
Autumn frosts have slain July.
Still she haunts me, phantomwise,
Alice moving under skies
Never seen by waking eyes.
Children yet, the tale to hear,
Eager eye and willing ear,
Lovingly shall nestle near.
In a Wonderland they lie,
Dreaming as the days go by,
Dreaming as the summers die:
Ever drifting down the stream --
Lingering in the golden dream --
Life, what is it but a dream?
THE END
895
A Cloud withdrew from the Sky
Superior Glory be
But that Cloud and its Auxiliaries
Are forever lost to me
Had I but further scanned
Had I secured the Glow
In an Hermetic Memory
It had availed me now.
Never to pass the Angel
With a glance and a Bow
Till I am firm in Heaven
Is my intention now.
Across the red sky two birds flying,
Flying with drooping wings.
Silent and solitary their ominous flight.
All day the triumphant sun with yellow banners
Warred and warred with the earth, and when she yielded
Stabbed her heart, gathered her blood in a chalice,
Spilling it over the evening sky.
When the dark plumaged birds go flying, flying,
Quiet lies the earth wrapt in her mournful shadow,
Her sightless eyes turned to the red sky
And the restlessly seeking birds.
We’ve been in the rain so long
That our eyes are sore and red;
When joy is missing,
We gaze down too long at our feet
As we slowly walk through the city,
But there must be a different sky waiting
Offering love and inspiration.
Beneath these yellow factory skies,
Even the street lights look sadly dim,
Like our spiritual light within
Blurred by an affectionless life.
Things began to change
When I met you in a small bar
Not far from the school where you teach;
I saw Walt Whitman’s Leaves of Grass
Easing out of your purse,
I knew we had to talk.
As we spoke over drinks
In the early evening,
I felt loneliness begin to lift
Like dark persistent clouds
Being pushed aside by sunlight,
As if Walt Whitman were sending us
Prayers mingled with lilacs.
Indeed, there is a different sky waiting,
Azure blue and dazzling,
Inviting flowers to bloom
On romantic avenues
When two people finally find each other.
In my mind I have already seen
You smile in a summer dress
Beneath a different sky welcoming our love.
The sunset was like a fire-sky
That truly lit up my world
Clouds were orange and yellow
Like a paintbrush making swirls
The beauty was overwhelming
But a little bit frightening as well
It raged as though with fury
As it all began to swell
The colors were also reflected
In the lake where trees surround
It was quiet as I stood mesmerized
There was barely a single sound
I saw some fellows out fishing
Their bodies in semi-dark
Nothing looked quite real
The lake looked cold and stark
I doubt that I will ever see
A sunset just like this again
The entire sky so unimaginable
In a shocking kind of blend!
A man saw a ball of gold in the sky;
He climbed for it,
And eventually he achieved it --
It was clay.
Now this is the strange part:
When the man went to the earth
And looked again,
Lo, there was the ball of gold.
Now this is the strange part:
It was a ball of gold.
Aye, by the heavens, it was a ball of gold.
I gaze over the horizon,
I know that Amber is beyond my sky,
Childhood is sadness and grief
Pounding at the little door
Of her heart.
Read Li-Young Lee
And know
There are many lovers
Separated by distant cities.
Threesome was in tie-break from time to time.
You see a slight difference otherwise it's very hard to choose the beauteous.
The triangular trendsetters treble the song of life.
The magical gypsy sisters, triplets on their way home with Nick-knacks.
A roll-call in a rodeo but my handsome slapdash cowboy!
Be careful because a gypsy girl belongs to a Romany prince.
It's a hereditary.
Let alone!
Please do not try to transgress and let down yourself.
It could be an ordeal with the opposite.
I dedicate this with condolence to one of my in-laws* Mr.Neil.Panditharathne who passed away today of a prolonged coma.
(30, Sunday, July 2006)
*my elder daughter's Father-in-law
As night comes to pass
over my home, my land,
I find myself here,
Alone I stand.
The moonlit earth
Surrounds, engulfs me.
I find in no place other
I'd rather be.
The moon to me,
Fells so empowering.
It's mysterious light
Now showering
Upon me.
I see
Peace of mind.
A place where free, I ride.
I long to fly
In a night sky.
Stars gleam,
So far away...
Only to vanish
With each new day.
Though they return
always as night falls,
Giants so large, in the sky
Seem so very small.
Make the map, in the sky.
For nightly travelers wand’ring
And give life to
Night creatures that sing.
In Nature so kind,
I always find
My peace of mind.
Free I ride,
Alone I fly,
In the night sky…
No one can own a color; no one can own a cloud.
No one on Earth could ever, I'm glad it's not allowed!
No person owns a person, though some may think they do.
No person owns the ocean; I know this to be true!
I cannot own a sparrow, I cannot own a tree.
Even in my own backyard they don't belong to me!
No one can own the starlight; no one can own the sun.
No person owns a river, it simply can't be done!
No one can own a desert, the planets or their moons.
We’re all just One Race: Human, same words with many tunes!
No one may claim ownership to TEAR or SMILE or SIGH!
Or take away your DREAMS so...
Sky a precocious November-ed
Gray, laced with threads of cadet blue
Dark billowed clouds angled half below
Majesty’s now, golden English Mountain
The rest billowing into the grayed heavens
Sheared weak thermal st ratifications
Yet, an extraordinary touchable
String to Trinity’s atmospheric heart
Chestnut’s Hills dressed warmly in fall hues
Adorn her feet in shades of gold and red
Cedars’ sweetly scented evergreen presence
Connects head and heart to everlasting life
Delicate laced limbs reach high above
Revealing the occasional straggler
Now, a striking golden contrast against
A promised wintering grayed sky
Black walnut trees' citrus-y scented globes
Drop and hide amongst the scattered crackling leaves
Mr. Gambol’s crepe myrtles now neon-ed, brilliant
Orange like Love’s light - filled radiant face
Steep yellowed hills all so freshly cut
Earth’s bounty carefully squirreled  away
Winters nourishment gathered with our
Most mortal hands while singing praise above
awakening sky
touching new believes
where night
of desires
comes from
old life's lamps
Alone
we dance
beside an endless ocean
its waters
the music that we dance to
the Heavens
an endless ocean of stars
our love
the music of the spheres
man & woman
woven into one
by the magic that we dance
we move
as one
beneath an enormous sky
a tiny speck
moving through time
the stars amazed
at how humans
not only make
but assume their own importance
and that they dare
to stop Time
with nothing but
a little scrap of love
grasped tightly
in their hands.
Closing the car door behind me,
I walked through an intense sunset
toward Radio Shack, a block away.
The sky's on fire!
, I thought,
believing I might have found
the first line of a poem.
A moment later I realized
that a million people think
those exact words every night.
What can I think, I wondered,
that a million people
don't
think every night?
'The sky burned to ash! '
'But it didn't! ' a part of me shouted.
That part of me is now bound
and gagged in the back of my car.
Here's the poem that was born:
The sky burned to ash,
leaving a jewel of lapis lazuli
that I wear today
in the setting
of my ring.
Birdy, birdy in the sky
Why you do that in my eye
I thought you were my friend so true
Now I can't see, my eye's like glue!
Black sails, against a midnight sky,
he buried his heart on an island.
Some day...
it won't matter when,
she'll open a green bottle and
find within, a scribbled map
that shows just where he
buried himself...in despair.
It'll read, from the oceans
edge first, two steps forward and
quench your thirst...for I am a river,
disguised as a stream...for I am life,
disguised as a dream... wake me,
my love, wake me, I'll give you
a sign, of where you can find
this heart of mine...buried deep,
and buried well...
and far enough away from
the oceans swell, that not just
any one, sailing by, would know
that it was I...
Black sails, against a midnight sky,
he buried his heart on an island.
He lay there buried, for what
seemed like years, the oceans edge
soon mixed with tears, and he waited
and waited, though she never came,
and the island no longer now
looks the same...
time has eroded both beach and sand
with no more trace upon the land
of where he buried his hope,
and dream, scribbled on a message
within a bottle of green.
Black sails, against a midnight sky,
he buried his heart on an island.
Blue sky yesterday
Grey today
Did the blue sky
Go away?
What is blue
And sunny too?
The blue sky
Hiding behind the grey.
Grey today
But with blue sky
Waiting to come out
And play.
The sun is laughing
At my blueness
Blue sky with its greyness
Never meant for sadness.
Blue sky here today
But with a greyness
Covering all the blueness
This is what I want to say.
A second bathroom was built.
The roof had such a tilt.
That a dormer had to be made,
with a window and a shade.
I crept out that upstairs window
To see why the night sky was aglow.
Sat there on that steep rooftop.
So I could look out over the treetops.
Off in the distance to the north
The Mardi Gras celebration on July the 4th.
I don't remember going there.
But I do remember the rooftop stares.
Knees bent from the pitch of the roof.
My own little opera booth.
From there I would view the bright night sky.
Colored mushrooms I would spy.
Wagon wheels and a pinwheel or two.
Even a shooting star to name a few.
Funny how you saw them light the sky
and yet the sound was almost denied.
Maybe just soft waves of mumble
as if a storm was starting to rumble.
I kept going back year after year.
To that spot I held so dear.
To witness the bright night sky
celebrating Mardi Gras 4th of July.
Until I married and moved away
We happened to be visiting that day.
Thought I would revisit some youthful joy.
Made it out that window, still bit of a tomboy.
But to my saddened eye.
I could no longer spy.
The bright night sky at all.
The trees now had grow too tall.
(6 May 2007)
Calm was the even, and clear was the sky,
And the new budding flowers did spring,
When all alone went Amyntas and I
To hear the sweet nightingale sing;
I sate, and he laid him down by me;
But scarcely his breath he could draw;
For when with a fear, he began to draw near,
He was dash'd with A ha ha ha ha!
He blush'd to himself, and lay still for a while,
And his modesty curb'd his desire;
But straight I convinc'd all his fear with a smile,
Which added new flames to his fire.
O Silvia, said he, you are cruel,
To keep your poor lover in awe;
Then once more he press'd with his hand to my breast,
But was dash'd with A ha ha ha ha!
I knew 'twas his passion that caus'd all his fear;
And therefore I pitied his case:
I whisper'd him softly, there's nobody near,
And laid my cheek close to his face:
But as he grew bolder and bolder,
A shepherd came by us and saw;
And just as our bliss we began with a kiss,
He laugh'd out with A ha ha ha ha!
can you own the days and the sky?
can you own the days or do you count the days?
counting the days till pay day till Friday
till the weekend until holidays till parties
until the next beer wine cigarette joint stimulent?
can you own the sky who owns the sky?
I own the sky each time longing driven smiling
I look up into the sky feel sun wind on face smiling
I look up into the sky feel laughter on breeze flirting
I look up into the sky feel feel rain from clouds bursting
I own the sky grey skies or blue I share skies with you
I own the bird songs relentless waves beach washing in too
I own the breath I breathe sky rights rural I share with you
I own each day creative tired in joy possibilities I gift to you
sometimes I own the days and the sky sharing with you
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
After the war,
and the forest burned down,
Nothing was left,
save the scorched barren ground.
All that was there,
just went up in flames,
Not one thing living,
was left to remain.
The wind blew the smoke,
and the rain washed the ash;
You would think such destruction
forever would last.
But along with spring rains
there were flowers that grew,
And the scorched land was green,
with fields living and new.
They thrived and they flourished,
Yellow dandelion fields,
Carpeting the land,
with yellow flowers they yield.
Then yellow turned white,
as their seeds filled the air,
Floating to new fields,
to flourish somewhere.
They were carried aloft,
Oh they dance and they fly,
And carried to new fields,
in the Dandelion Sky.
1/19/05
Deep sky - deep deep!
What lies out there?
On earth I'll stay and sleep,
But to the sky I'll stare.
Some erudition to gain
From the swirling galaxy,
Perhaps I look in vain
Knowing not what to see?
The seeds of the years
That man has thought,
Going here and there's
What is after sought.
Searching not through
For life is full of growth,
Eternal springing youth:
Peace embellishing oath.
Ways are unpredictable -
Always new within new!
Some space dark and dull
With twinkling stars so few!
It is scribbled along the body
Impossible even to say a word
An alphabet has been stored beneath the ground
It is a practice alphabet, work of the hand
Yet not, not marks inside a box
For example, this is a mirror box
Spinoza designed such a box
and called it the Eighth Sky
called it the Nevercadabra House
as a joke
Yet not, not so much a joke
not Notes for Electronic Harp
on a day free of sounds
(but I meant to write "clouds")
At night these same boulevards fill with snow
Lancers and dancers pass a poisoned syringe,
as you wrote, writing of death in the snow,
Patroclus and a Pharaoh on Rue Ravignan
It is scribbled across each body
Impossible even to name a word
Look, you would say, how the sky falls
at first gently, then not at all
Two chemicals within the firefly are the cause
Twin ships, twin nemeses
preparing to metamorphose
into an alphabet in stone
St.-Benoît-sur-Loire
to Max Jacob
As he is said nothing will be the same again
He would be proven to be right
One finds it difficult to appreciate what
Belongs to him or her
One should wonder why humankind
Not all of them off course
But enough to notice
Are failing to appreciate
The wonders brought
By the apparent rise of
The sun in the sky
And the light it brings with it
The rise in temperature allows
All of us to freely wander the streets
Especially when the sky turns blue
That’s true
There would be no light or heat
As nice and wonderful as
The sunlight and the sun heat
Especially when the sky turns blue
Gazing into a starry night,
I see a deep indigo sky
with perfect placement of twinkling light.
Stars reveal the expanse of time
from before the birth of humanity;
their existence came from dynamic energy
which was created by spoken word
that no man has ever heard.
Solitary spirit of awesome might
painted this heavenly canvas
with a flick of His hand and uttered thought.
Divine creation shared with you and me -
It's part of our heritage and His eternal legacy.
Author Notes
By Joseph J. Breunig 3rd, © All rights reserved.
Author/poet, Reaching Towards His Unbounded Glory
Like fire in the sky it is
When the sun sets in the night
Red and yellow engulf the world
In a vivid and glorious sight
It’s seems so unexplainable
How the sky lights up this way
I can’t think of a more perfect
Way to end the day
Sometimes purple adds itself
To the colors up above
A fever in the sky it seems
Or God showing His thoughtful love
Whatever is the reason
We enjoy the sights so much
When the sun drops from the sky
And leaves its brilliant touch!
Im not so sure he loves me...
Im not so sure i do...
but when im around him...
My heart tells me its true...
when im around this guy, i feel like i can fly...
so high i can touch the sky...
i get all nevous and i get all red...
i start to get a little light headed...
he talks to me...
its like a fantasy...
i dont know whats left in the world...
when he is not here to have me hold...
From sky to sky
I move to search
The lovely notes
Of the stars.
I find the passion
And the pain and
I hear the hark
Of the nightingale.
Here is life
In the search
That I know from
The lone autumn.
Oh, here I keep but
Surely not despair.
God's beautiful sky
you hold the earth in place
your friends surround your beautiful face
Your friends the clouds are your beard long
The birds fly through your white fluffy hair
and sing to you a song
You hold the heavens above
and the earth below
I can see you
wherever I go
Your friends the sun and moon
are your eyes and ears
the moon shines bright through the night
to sooth a child's fears
A tree starts as a seed
and grows up really high
but never get to touch their friend
the sky
Your friends the stars above
are your tokens of love
that sometimes shoot across your beautiful face
You can see them up in space
Look at the sky
Cause it is watching you
and when you see a rainbow
Your wishes will come true
Glum is the sky, by night imprisoned,
As over it the dark clouds creep,
Not menacing or wistful is it,
But plunged in dreary, torpid sleep.
Alone the streaks of lightning, bursting
Through cloud and  shadow, seem to be,
As they flare up and blaze, conversing
Like deaf-mute demons soundlessly.
As at a signal, for an instant
A strip of sky is lit, and Lo! -
From out the murk the forests distant
Emerge, set suddenly aglow.
But the light dies, the darkness fleeing
That cloaks the startled, wakeful sky,
And all is still... Is a plot being
Hatched in the silent wastes on high?..
the moon
sits in the sky
as if waiting for day to dawn
the moon
mom waits for dad
to join dinner
autumn
scarlet sky
the maple still green
Moon was
Living in
My heart...
Heart was
Very cool...!
The moon
Was my
Loving girl...
Yes...
She was
Moon...
In my heart
Sky only...
She was
Moon
Every day
Full
Moon...!
In my heart
Sky only...!
Inky gear with million accessories
The - Wisps of clouds
Charismatic Moon
And Celestial bodies.
You dazzle like a jewel
In the shinning carroty sun,
You’re calm and poised
When ornamented by the twinkling stars.
‘You’re the Sky’.
Crystalline drops wetted with effervescence
The - Ebbing and soaring waves
Turbulence and tranquility
Azure brilliance.
I catch the morning light
And sketch the rising sun on me.
I shine, I glow and I feel beautiful
When complimented by the sky.
‘I’m The Ocean’.
I love it when you are in a mischievous mood
It’s when you stir up a breeze - And play with me.
I treasure and hold every pearly tear that you shed
Happy or otherwise - And I consume it.
I love it when you elevate the temperature
It’s then that you evaporate me - And fly me to your abode.
We’re so much like the ‘Ocean and the Sky’ -
Eager to meet,
Complimenting each other,
Sharing Secrets,
Seeming to kiss and embrace.
We’re so much like the ‘Ocean and the Sky’ -
Summiting at the horizon -
Which is a mere apparition.
We touch,
But the touch dosen't reach
Beyond our borders.
(16 September 2006)
The wind was kicking up from the Northwest
Storm clouds gathered to section off the Sun
Intense displays of furious pyrotechnics flashed brilliantly
From the mouth of the dark beyond
As Nature made its feelings known and I lay slowly dying
From a self inflicted stab at ending my family's drought
Having fallen on my sword as required in human sacrifice
My blood letting was to be washed clean and absorbed
Into the dry parched earth beneath my heavy soul
And the heavens would open up to receive me
For all which flows from them, so shall all be returned.....
I will give the sky to you
I will take the picture of the sky using a camera
That is the only way I can do it
If the sky was in the stores
Would they sell it?
No skies are in the stores
It is very high above us
We can’t even reach
We could reach it only by plane
How high is the sky?
It is very high
All I know
The sky is blue
If the sky was pink would it be nice?
No it would be ugly
I guess I could have a pinky sky only in my dreams
To me would not make any difference
It is in my dream
No body else can see it
Just me
The sky will never be for sale
It is ours, it belongs above the earth
The sky is crumbling into millions of paper dots
the wind blows in my face
so I duck into my favorite barber shop
and listen to Vivaldi and look in the mirror
reflecting the shopfront windows, Broadway
and 104th, and watch the dots blown by the wind
blow into the faces of the walkers outside
& here comes a thin old man swaddled in scarves,
he must be seventy-five, walking slowly,
and in his mind there is a young man dancing,
maybe seventeen years old, on a June evening --
he is that young man, I can tell, watching him walk
Give to me one more kiss.
Impart your spirit on my memory.
Chill my heart with a touch.
Ignite me with a glance.
Wrap yourself around me.
And stir my soul with a smile.
Meet me on a midnight moon.
Where we can laugh and fly.
Make a dream that soars on wings.
And kiss beneath a liquid sky.
Looking up to the sky at night,
Why are there no stars shining bright?
Many times I have looked up for any stars light,
Just to see total darkness and no stars that shine white.
Is this Gods way of telling us in heaven there is a fight?
Over something as simple as does might make right.
We just have to submit ourselves to God and hold on tight.
Because we humans are in a world with a hopeless plight.
By now you know I am quite right,
That sometimes there are no bright white lights at night.
Yes, some stars are a little red or yellow depending on their
energy, which is light.
From this you can tell I have good eye sight.
It`s not my intention to scare people into a fear or fright,
About this matter I have chosen to write.
No matter who we are, eventually we will go through a blight.
Even if you are King Arthur or a White Knight.
In this small town an angel could show the height of his flight.
Amazing you at night, going higher than a kite.
This world is just a play and West Salem is God`s chosen site.
Please pray that in Illinois every thing will be all right.
Though there are miles between us,
Though the days and the nights may seem long,
Look up to the stars and know,
That no matter where you are,
I'm there with you,
No matter where you go,
My love you'll have.
If ever you are lonely,
Or think you don't belong,
Look up to the stars and know,
That i'll be there with you,
So you won't be lonely,
When you think that you don't belong,
I'll be around to make sure you do.
Whenever we're apart,
Always remember,
Look up to the stars.
sun is dad
spreads love and cheer
with each of his rays
children's laughter everywhere
moon is mom
watching over the earth
to make sure
we dont miss our way
in her varying ways
she cares for each and all
taking in all the pain
to make sure
all things are fine
earth, earth, earth is my lover
pulling me close all the time
giving me food and a perpetual shelter
even when i am mere skeletons and bones
The woman is a nut
She is an indehiscent hard-shelled
One-loculated
One-seeded fruit of a human being
Though she has multiple personality disorders
She is still just a nut
She is a nut in search of a machined screw
Something on which to thread herself
To become permanently affixed atop or bottom
As long as it is missionary and without sexual fervor
Locked in or welded by rust or chastity
Either a bolt or threaded rod will serve
This wing nuts need for bonding
The woman is a nut
A nut in search of a chocolate bar
Something to satisfy her cravings
And her stupendous need for love
She will demonstrate an illiterate
Propensity and strong cohesion
For her family unit
With names like Poe and Shakespeare
She salts my balls (vulgar slang for nuts)
Till my small brain and large bowel
Extricate themselves of this nut
Via a long walk in the park
And a short rest on a park bench
Where I am protected from this nut
By a rather large family of Squirrels
Named Bukowski
2007 © T Sheridan
O DULL cold northern sky,
O brawling sabbath bells,
O feebly twittering Autumn bird that tells
The year is like to die!
O still, spoiled trees, O city ways,
O sun desired in vain,
O dread presentiment of coming rain
That cloys the sullen days!
Thee, heart of mine, I greet.
In what hard mountain pass
Striv'st thou?  In what importunate morass
Sink now thy weary feet?
Thou run'st a hopeless race
To win despair.  No crown
Awaits success, but leaden gods look down
On thee, with evil face.
And those that would befriend
And cherish thy defeat,
With angry welcome shall turn sour the sweet
Home-coming of the end.
Yea, those that offer praise
To idleness, shall yet
Insult thee, coming glorious in the sweat
Of honourable ways.
Oh fair enough are sky and plain,
But I know fairer far:
Those are as beautiful again
That in the water are;
The pools and rivers wash so clean
The trees and clouds and air,
The like on earth was never seen,
And oh that I were there.
These are the thoughts I often think
As I stand gazing down
In act upon the cressy brink
To strip and dive and drown;
But in the golden-sanded brooks
And azure meres I spy
A silly lad that longs and looks
And wishes he were I.
On this day of sky-blue bears
Running across quiet eyelashes,
I divine beyond the blue waters
In the cup of my eyes an order to wake.
The silver spoon of my extended eyes
Offers me a sea buoying a storm petrel;
And I see how the Russian bird flies
Through unknown lashes to the roaring sea.
A sea of heavenlove has capsized
Someone's sail in the round-blue water,
But the first storm is hopeless and gone
And from now on the journey is spring.
I must confess that this is my first time
seeing the leaves change in fall.
I laid on my back
under a rather large tree today,
and what a marvel it was.
He laid next to me,
yet was overly consumed
by the fact that he might get dirt in his eye.
For me, it was a much
greater feeling.
I stared in amazement
at the oranges leaves
and contrasting blue sky.
It's funny how a moment like that
could make me realize how wrong
we are for each other.
While I was busy enjoying
the feeling of the cool ground
that was my matress
and staring up at the leaves until they lost
their definition and blurred together,
he only seemed to wiggle and squirm,
as if he was annoyed or embarassed
of committing such a childish act.
Today, I learned the reason
why he tells me that I'm immature.
It's because I am an artist,
I see beauty in everything.
I am a poet
who reads more than just words.
I find joy in taking
the time to smell the roses -
to be amused by the little things.
And he has only found
a path by following
the others.
O sky, my blue sky-
O earth my green earth!
The new light has
Filled me with mirth!
Trulalala, trulala, la, la, lala, la....
O sky, my dear sky,
O bird take me in the high.
I want to sing the song of life,
Along with the cloud wanna fly.
Trulalala, trulala, la, la, lala, la....
Clouds will be soon my horse,
I'll ride on its back, just see.
Air will dance around playing the,
music of merriment beside me!
Trulalala, trulala, la, lala, la.....
O sky, my pal sky-
Wish to throw all my pain.
Drip the ray of happiness,
In this world, shower the golden rain!
Trulalala, trulala, la, lala, la....
When thunderstorms come out to play,
And lightning o'er this earth is seen,
Dense clouds descend in colours grey,
And rain pours forth, where sun has been.
When crescendos resound in humid air,
And exacerbate our troubled sky,
Will all the power residing there,
Look kindly down from portals high.
Such danger lurks in flashes bright,
Splitting the heavens so mercilessly,
But what an amazing glorious sight,
Portrayed here in all its ferocity.
©   Ernestine Northover
My eyes set their gaze across the horizon
The sun is setting in late fall afternoon
Cold snap in the air as the leaves swirl about
A welcoming view is the painted pink sky
Streaks of pale blue dotted with white
Have been suddenly brushed with a soft pastel
The beauty is breathtaking, such natural artistry
I am in awe of the painted pink sky
I think of you now, how magnificent it would be
To find ultimate and much needed serenity
Wrapped up in your strong arms in loves sweet embrace
To be held by you under the painted pink sky
I'd watched the sorrow of the evening sky,
And smelt the sea, and earth, and the warm clover,
And heard the waves, and the seagull's mocking cry.
And in them all was only the old cry,
That song they always sing -- "The best is over!
You may remember now, and think, and sigh,
O silly lover!"
And I was tired and sick that all was over,
And because I,
For all my thinking, never could recover
One moment of the good hours that were over.
And I was sorry and sick, and wished to die.
Then from the sad west turning wearily,
I saw the pines against the white north sky,
Very beautiful, and still, and bending over
Their sharp black heads against a quiet sky.
And there was peace in them; and I
Was happy, and forgot to play the lover,
And laughed, and did no longer wish to die;
Being glad of you, O pine-trees and the sky!
Do you like the song?
I can't sing alone
Can you play guitar?
Can you see the star?
Bring me the real colour
Take me out the hole
Fly me in the sky
It's not always purple
I saw the cloud in the morning sky
So I turned to go back inside,
And I said to my wife, ‘It’s a shepherd’s dawn,
Or the red sky early warning, torn
By the man with the evil eye.’
The silence hung in a leaden pall
As she turned her face away,
And I said: ‘I’m only the man behind,
I’m not to account for all mankind
Or a cloud at the break of day.’
She looked again and she pulled the blind
And the house was dark and still.
‘I’ve looked my last on the works of man
Through whispered tears on a trembling hand,
Or the cloud beyond the hill.’
So she sat herself where she sits today
By the glow of the ash-wood fire,
But she sees and hears and tells me nought
While the devil inside her can’t be bought,
Or ever be made to tire.
So whenever a cloud in the early dawn
Glows red in the morning sky,
I say to my wife: ‘It’s a shepherd’s dawn,
Or the red sky early warning, torn
By the man with the evil eye.’
9 June 1972
Three atoms of Oxygen,
That will make Ozone!
Which is in the Stratosphere,
The Shield’s almost gone.
Absorbing the U-V rays,
That comes from the Sun;
Ozone is so essential,
No more is this fun.
Ozone-holes are increasing,
Stop this if you’re wise;
Blame Man for its depletion,
Skin-Cancer’s on the rise.
Hundred chemicals almost,
Can de-ionize!
Fluro-carbons and Halons,
Mostly terrorize.
These are being widely used,
Phase them out, O Man;
They can cause Cataracts too,
Beware, Ye human.
They cause global-warming, so
Let the Ozone be;
Use those substances only
That’re Ozone- friendly.
September 16 th each year,
Is celebrated always;
As the World’s Day to preserve,
The OZONE LAYER.
BY Dr. JOHN CELES
dedicated to the World Environment Day
Cool air, September sky.
My vision bordered by trees,
Dying for the winter-
God's silent fireworks,
Brilliant reds, oranges, yellows.
There is the threat of frost in the air,
A biting chill which seeps into my clothes.
The smell of a woodstove is in the air,
Invigorating.
It is as much a part of the September sky
As the colors on the wind.
There is a stillness in the air,
Punctuated by the cries of a few lonely birds.
I look to the sky,
Clear blue, like your eyes.
I feel lost, lonely-
I am in this dream,
But you are not.
I am leaving, I know,
Leaving behind a connection of the heart
That I once was unaware of.
I am alone, September Sky.
My little nephew Kevin
is riding on the swing set
Muscling and thumping
the wooden saddle
Like a jockey in the derby
Arcing to equipoise while
Showing the bottoms
of his feet to the moon
Up and down
Back and forth
Suspended from above
Now almost a revolution!
And a free fall from
the forest canopy
Free falling to earth
Then free speeding to the crowns
of the trees again
He is silent in reverie...
until he shouts wow wee at the sky
Wow wee!
I am sitting under a pine tree
drinking coffee...
And shout wow wee at the sky
Wow wee!
Sky and Cloud,
is like a kiss,
together, sometimes gentle or passionate.
Oh on the blue background sky,
Cloud, the life-quenching, floating oasis passes by,
fluffy white to miles dark and high,
to down and down
droplets for earth to soak in,
then rising back up to sky and cloud again.
Oh, beyond the marketplaces, crowds,
beyond the cities, valley towns,
far from demanding human wants and needs,
at the wellspring of imaginations, creeds.
Above where red-tailed hawk still flies,
or out where the flowing river winds, ...
Sky and Cloud,
is like a kiss,
together, sometimes loud or delicate.
Yes, Sky and Cloud,
yes, is like, a kiss, ...
What gives us Life, ...to feel, exist.
''It is clear that the material world
of tools and the creative mind is inevitable.
What is not clear is when One's heart and senses,
become lost within it.''
I look to the blue sky relaxing in silence
Its sun fed morning and evening showers
Peppered face of rain and summer
With its folded  breath in a horizon lamping
as if in deep forest, over  the dark and red scars.
as if spotless death and life caress each other
Extending its biting arms along all apprehensions
of pavements dwellers  being stuck here and there all around.
All those draped across are almost dead to the tunes
Of seas, mountain, meadows or of earth spun smiles
The tunes of conifers soliloquy stand intoxicated
In white caped wilderness of the Himalayas or somewhere
Or the galloping laughter on the beach in summer
Mutilated as if being caught in fisherman’s net
Appears rasping on the dunes in ruthless alienation
Against the time and tide of travelers monologue
The silhouetted voices of returning birds emaciatedly eluded
As if to a peace procession of hungers before the temples gate
where i am stuck up glaring foggy eyes of dusky sky
At my door- way when the sky is hiding in darkness.
My hair is light sky blue,
and my eye's are deep brown.
What does that say to you? ,
Please don't look at me and frown.
Well, my head is in the clouds,
my eye's, are focused on earth.
I do not wear any shrouds,
And my life is full of mirth.
When my head comes back to earth,
and my eye's look at the sky.
I wonder about my birth,
and ask a lot of questions, Why?
Why? ,  is not such a blur,
it's always the same answer.
We are all here to learn,
if not, you get another turn.
Sky, blue sky
so blue and shy
u only appear
when there are clouds to dissapear
then comes the sun
so worm as the love of a mum
the sky full of light
iluminated by life
sometimes blue and and grey
how he should stay?
maybe always blue
maybe always gray
who knows
someday there will be no sky
to think how he shoul stay...
In school it had been important to learn
the names of battleships, diseases, museums,
kings, the internal scheme of the squid
which is called taxonomy but outside, in the fields,
it seemed most important to know the names
of sex organs: vulva, Mount Olympus,
anadromous pod and that was called soccer practice.
Beside me in Earth Science sat Debbie
until she was killed by a Volkswagen
so the rest of the year I did the experiments
alone. Say crack my fingers backwards, she whispered
while I tried to organize plastic seashells.
The earth had folded into itself many times.
Ann, Jill, Brenda, Elizabeth. Kinesis,
the golgi apparatus, the ellipsis. Give up,
go to bed, dream. Then to wake up twenty years later
after a party knowing you behaved perfectly
shamefully, the brain is threatened sea life,
astronomers predict discs of dust hold clues
to the birth of the universe and then to make tea
and telephone apologies. What was her name,
the one by the door? Expostulations of orange juice.
Purple clouds. Twice I jumped from an airplane
to forget a beautiful woman who was sleeping
with some guy instead of me who made guitars
from scratch. Handprints on an aquarium,
tissue paper. Irregular envelopes. To begin,
each player selected a game piece. She was
beautiful and drunk but not as drunk
as her dress which kept hailing cabs
even at the party. Beneath the clothing
is the skin and beneath the skin, viscera, bones
but beneath that there is just the skin
of the other side so clearly something
is unaccounted for. Green river,
lobelia, lightbulb shaped like a flame,
a chair shaped like a shoe. The last time
I landed, I forgot all I learned
throwing myself from a practice flight of stairs.
It drove me crazy, the way she smiled
at strangers and I could never be
a stranger. A thousand feet above the earth,
hanging from a handkerchief.
Bodies falling from the sky,
like drops of dreams,
like sweet lies.
Without wings,
and only with our souls..
we are able to fly,
fusing with the sky...becoming one.
In my dreams,
the sky is like a canvas,
my soul all colors,
and my body a feather brush,
in the hands of a blowing child.
I love life more than my own life.
To die we have to live,
to wake up we have to sleep,
to finish we have to start,
to leave we have to arrive,
these are the reasons why,
flying keep us alive.
My new thoughts, kill my old ones,
my new me, kill my old one.
We must dream,
to let the day die
we must fly,
to let our bodies disattach.
Souls...bodies....minds
in the sky.... we set them free,
they never die,
they just go to another dimension,
like this...like there...like that.
Fishes parade
across the sky
all shapes
all sizes
thinly disguised
as clouds
or
as you name them
“Cloudses! ”
Here a big old fish
enormous tail...enormous fin.
Here a seahorse
pretty & perky
chomping at the bit.
There the tiniest tiniest
little wispy fishes alive.
The sea itself
a sparkle of diamonds…diamonds.
Your hand
held in mine
your mind
& how you see this world
filling up my mind
our... footsteps... following us...in the sand.
Blue sky,
blue sky.
Looking at you, wishing the day by.
Blue sky,
purple sky.
Storm coming in, here it is, there's the eye.
Blue sky,
grey sky.
The earth is wailing, the thunder yells, and the clouds cry.
Blue sky,
grey sky,
black sky.
Tore away at the moon, swallowed stars, listened to the sun die.
Black sky
Green sky
Orange sky
Red sky
Pink and yellow and mean sky.
Come on and roll in; it's only in my mind.
Sky Outside Sky
(Two Pairs of Couplets●Quatrain)
Tracing the flower soul, night in night
Drawing the cloud soul, sky outside sky
Moon falling the sparse phoenix tree, love through the ages
People invite green willow, the half life time's fate
2016/7/2/写诗翻译
On July 2,2016, Poetry and Translation
◆ Chinese Text
天外天
(对联体●绝句)
描图花魄夜中夜
泼墨云心天外天
月落疏桐千古爱
人邀翠柳 半生缘
The sky holds no problems.
It just holds tears that join with my own.
We’re two separate entities, completely alone.
One day, though, I’ll be one with the sky.
And I’ll leave my problems that day I die.
It was 16 degrees below freezing today.
The sky was blue, bright and vast.
I looked more closely at the sky
And it was suffused by sunlight, the same bright sunlight
That you are bathed in.
There was a corner of the sky that was grey and empty
Where you usually are.
I resolved to look more deeply, more intensely
At this vacant part of the majestic sky.
The deeper I concentrated, the more you emerged
And I found you again, in the sky of my mind
In the tapestry of my feelings and thoughts.
Across wide continents, you are here
And the empty part of the sky dissolves
Into a rich portrait of your days and nights
Where the earth beneath our feet unites.
Have you observed the sky lately?
Plumes of tabacco grey,
The reds and purples have faded,
The blue has washed away.
We knew the colours were rusting;
Flaking coppery red,
If only we'd have acted,
Now morbid grey is left.
The crimson bled in rivers,
As if drained from hanging meat,
Until there remained weak orange,
The process would repeat.
For a week the clouds rained amber,
Globules of sunshine ray,
And now our sky is ashen:
A grubby, stale ashtray.
Little little
Stars...
Swmming
On the sky
Sea...!
Night sun
Moon was rising
FULL
and HALF...
and day by day...
Clouds are sky...
Blue and wite
Upper
The bigest ocean..
Sand less sea...
For the sky...? ? ! !
I opened a letter
But I couldn't read
Up in the sky
Down on the ground
I must pick my posion
Do I feel pain with every breath
Or do I live in the sky
After my death
Normal thoughts visit at times
Suicide ideas still exist
Day and night are always mine
Suicide tries are on my wrist
The sky is peaceful and blue
But also dark and blind
If I become a walking soul
My pain I will not find
Maybe, I could be wrong
Up in the sky
Down on the ground
I must pick my posion.
The flower of the Alps told the seashell: "You're shining"
The seashell told the sea: "You echo"
The sea told the boat: "You're shuddering"
The boat told the fire: "You're glowing brightly"
The fire told me: "I glow less brightly than her eyes"
The boat told me: "I shudder less than your heart does when she appears"
The sea told me: "I echo less than her name does in your love-making"
The seashell told me: "I shine less brightly than the phosphorus of desire in your hollow dream"
The flower of the Alps told me: "She's beautiful"
I said: "She's beautiful, so beautiful, she moves me."
Sky Star…., so far….., on a peaceful night….,
Blinking…, twinkling…, with a wondrous light…,
Sky Star…., so far…., sparkling so bright….,
Shimmering…, quivering…, on a peaceful night.
Celestial flame…. Glowing with delight….,
Gleaming, flashing, glimmering white….,
Radiant spirit…., such a beautiful sight…,
Sky Star…., so far….., on a peaceful night.
Clouds in the sky they are made out of love,
Nature is the artist magnificent;
Everything there, isn't heavy and above,
And made rather fluffy in the distant.
I guess everybody has a dream cloud,
Where there's a wishing rainbow coming to shine;
Though sometimes we are in doubt, and not allowed,
To know where it is, cause the weaving's so fine.
All unwritten love's upon a cloud somewhere,
Just waiting for us to go and catch it;
And we, equally waiting for love to share,
Just step by step, and little bit by bit.
Cupid's flying about with his arrows,
Giving happy moments - drying sorrows...
sunlight bathes in the sky,
morning cleans the stagnant
projections of the mind-
road twists,
bows beneath the pressure,
arches back and orgasms
a destination.
sunday paper arrives
two days late,
or am i just four days early-
dreamt last night i carried your child,
the birth came too early, you blamed me
for the miscarriage.
take my child away
i am unfit,
i am not worthy to
bear the pregnancy of
the future king-
a virgin knocked up,
who would believe?
i said it was a miracle,
you said it was just a dream.
i look at you,
scared little boy,
almost tall enough to pass as
a gentle man-
spinning around theidea
of our children in your head.
maybe we could move beside the ocean
and pay our tithing to the boiling fire-set
maybe we could live deep in the country,
a native country where no one
would know our names and
we'd learn to speak the language-
maybe we could love each other,
just barely enough to be more
than we are alone
632
The Brain—is wider than the Sky—
For—put them side by side—
The one the other will contain
With ease—and You—beside—
The Brain is deeper than the sea—
For—hold them—Blue to Blue—
The one the other will absorb—
As Sponges—Buckets—do—
The Brain is just the weight of God—
For—Heft them—Pound for Pound—
And they will differ—if they do—
As Syllable from Sound—
632
The Brain—is wider than the Sky—
For—put them side by side—
The one the other will contain
With ease—and You—beside—
The Brain is deeper than the sea—
For—hold them—Blue to Blue—
The one the other will absorb—
As Sponges—Buckets—do—
The Brain is just the weight of God—
For—Heft them—Pound for Pound—
And they will differ—if they do—
As Syllable from Sound—
Between me and the sunset, like a dome
Against the glory of a world on fire,
Now burned a sudden hill,
Bleak, round, and high, by flame-lit height made higher,
With nothing on it for the flame to kill
Save one who moved and was alone up there
To loom before the chaos and the glare
As if he were the last god going home
Unto his last desire.
Dark, marvelous, and inscrutable he moved on
Till down the fiery distance he was gone,
Like one of those eternal, remote things
That range across a man’s imaginings
When a sure music fills him and he knows
What he may say thereafter to few men,—
The touch of ages having wrought
An echo and a glimpse of what he thought
A phantom or a legend until then;
For whether lighted over ways that save,
Or lured from all repose,
If he go on too far to find a grave,
Mostly alone he goes.
Even he, who stood where I had found him,
On high with fire all round him,
Who moved along the molten west,
And over the round hill’s crest
That seemed half ready with him to go down,
Flame-bitten and flame-cleft,
As if there were to be no last thing left
Of a nameless unimaginable town,—
Even he who climbed and vanished may have taken
Down to the perils of a depth not known,
From death defended though by men forsaken,
The bread that every man must eat alone;
He may have walked while others hardly dared
Look on to see him stand where many fell;
And upward out of that, as out of hell,
He may have sung and striven
To mount where more of him shall yet be given,
Bereft of all retreat,
To sevenfold heat,—
As on a day when three in Dura shared
The furnace, and were spared
For glory by that king of Babylon
Who made himself so great that God, who heard,
Covered him with long feathers, like a bird.
Again, he may have gone down easily,
By comfortable altitudes, and found,
As always, underneath him solid ground
Whereon to be sufficient and to stand
Possessed already of the promised land,
Far stretched and fair to see:
A good sight, verily,
And one to make the eyes of her who bore him
Shine glad with hidden tears.
Why question of his ease of who before him,
In one place or another where they left
Their names as far behind them as their bones,
And yet by dint of slaughter toil and theft,
And shrewdly sharpened stones,
Carved hard the way for his ascendency
Through deserts of lost years?
Why trouble him now who sees and hears
No more than what his innocence requires,
And therefore to no other height aspires
Than one at which he neither quails nor tires?
He may do more by seeing what he sees
Than others eager for iniquities;
He may, by seeing all things for the best,
Incite futurity to do the rest.
Or with an even likelihood,
He may have met with atrabilious eyes
The fires of time on equal terms and passed
Indifferently down, until at last
His only kind of grandeur would have been,
Apparently, in being seen.
He may have had for evil or for good
No argument; he may have had no care
For what without himself went anywhere
To failure or to glory, and least of all
For such a stale, flamboyant miracle;
He may have been the prophet of an art
Immovable to old idolatries;
He may have been a player without a part,
Annoyed that even the sun should have the skies
For such a flaming way to advertise;
He may have been a painter sick at heart
With Nature’s toiling for a new surprise;
He may have been a cynic, who now, for all
Of anything divine that his effete
Negation may have tasted,
Saw truth in his own image, rather small,
Forbore to fever the ephemeral,
Found any barren height a good retreat
From any swarming street,
And in the sun saw power superbly wasted;
And when the primitive old-fashioned stars
Came out again to shine on joys and wars
More primitive, and all arrayed for doom,
He may have proved a world a sorry thing
In his imagining,
And life a lighted highway to the tomb.
Or, mounting with infirm unsearching tread,
His hopes to chaos led,
He may have stumbled up there from the past,
And with an aching strangeness viewed the last
Abysmal conflagration of his dreams,—
A flame where nothing seems
To burn but flame itself, by nothing fed;
And while it all went out,
Not even the faint anodyne of doubt
May then have eased a painful going down
From pictured heights of power and lost renown,
Revealed at length to his outlived endeavor
Remote and unapproachable forever;
And at his heart there may have gnawed
Sick memories of a dead faith foiled and flawed
And long dishonored by the living death
Assigned alike by chance
To brutes and hierophants;
And anguish fallen on those he loved around him
May once have dealt the last blow to confound him,
And so have left him as death leaves a child,
Who sees it all too near;
And he who knows no young way to forget
May struggle to the tomb unreconciled.
Whatever suns may rise or set
There may be nothing kinder for him here
Than shafts and agonies;
And under these
He may cry out and stay on horribly;
Or, seeing in death too small a thing to fear,
He may go forward like a stoic Roman
Where pangs and terrors in his pathway lie,—
Or, seizing the swift logic of a woman,
Curse God and die.
Or maybe there, like many another one
Who might have stood aloft and looked ahead,
Black-drawn against wild red,
He may have built, unawed by fiery gules
That in him no commotion stirred,
A living reason out of molecules
Why molecules occurred,
And one for smiling when he might have sighed
Had he seen far enough,
And in the same inevitable stuff
Discovered an odd reason too for pride
In being what he must have been by laws
Infrangible and for no kind of cause.
Deterred by no confusion or surprise
He may have seen with his mechanic eyes
A world without a meaning, and had room,
Alone amid magnificence and doom,
To build himself an airy monument
That should, or fail him in his vague intent,
Outlast an accidental universe—
To call it nothing worse—
Or, by the burrowing guile
Of Time disintegrated and effaced,
Like once-remembered mighty trees go down
To ruin, of which by man may now be traced
No part sufficient even to be rotten,
And in the book of things that are forgotten
Is entered as a thing not quite worth while.
He may have been so great
That satraps would have shivered at his frown,
And all he prized alive may rule a state
No larger than a grave that holds a clown;
He may have been a master of his fate,
And of his atoms,—ready as another
In his emergence to exonerate
His father and his mother;
He may have been a captain of a host,
Self-eloquent and ripe for prodigies,
Doomed here to swell by dangerous degrees,
And then give up the ghost.
Nahum’s great grasshoppers were such as these,
Sun-scattered and soon lost.
Whatever the dark road he may have taken,
This man who stood on high
And faced alone the sky,
Whatever drove or lured or guided him,—
A vision answering a faith unshaken,
An easy trust assumed of easy trials,
A sick negation born of weak denials,
A crazed abhorrence of an old condition,
A blind attendance on a brief ambition,—
Whatever stayed him or derided him,
His way was even as ours;
And we, with all our wounds and all our powers,
Must each await alone at his own height
Another darkness or another light;
And there, of our poor self dominion reft,
If inference and reason shun
Hell, Heaven, and Oblivion,
May thwarted will (perforce precarious,
But for our conservation better thus)
Have no misgiving left
Of doing yet what here we leave undone?
Or if unto the last of these we cleave,
Believing or protesting we believe
In such an idle and ephemeral
Florescence of the diabolical,—
If, robbed of two fond old enormities,
Our being had no onward auguries,
What then were this great love of ours to say
For launching other lives to voyage again
A little farther into time and pain,
A little faster in a futile chase
For a kingdom and a power and a Race
That would have still in sight
A manifest end of ashes and eternal night?
Is this the music of the toys we shake
So loud,—as if there might be no mistake
Somewhere in our indomitable will?
Are we no greater than the noise we make
Along one blind atomic pilgrimage
Whereon by crass chance billeted we go
Because our brains and bones and cartilage
Will have it so?
If this we say, then let us all be still
About our share in it, and live and die
More quietly thereby.
Where was he going, this man against the sky?
You know not, nor do I.
But this we know, if we know anything:
That we may laugh and fight and sing
And of our transience here make offering
To an orient Word that will not be erased,
Or, save in incommunicable gleams
Too permanent for dreams,
Be found or known.
No tonic and ambitious irritant
Of increase or of want
Has made an otherwise insensate waste
Of ages overthrown
A ruthless, veiled, implacable foretaste
Of other ages that are still to be
Depleted and rewarded variously
Because a few, by fate’s economy,
Shall seem to move the world the way it goes;
No soft evangel of equality,
Safe-cradled in a communal repose
That huddles into death and may at last
Be covered well with equatorial snows—
And all for what, the devil only knows—
Will aggregate an inkling to confirm
The credit of a sage or of a worm,
Or tell us why one man in five
Should have a care to stay alive
While in his heart he feels no violence
Laid on his humor and intelligence
When infant Science makes a pleasant face
And waves again that hollow toy, the Race;
No planetary trap where souls are wrought
For nothing but the sake of being caught
And sent again to nothing will attune
Itself to any key of any reason
Why man should hunger through another season
To find out why ’twere better late than soon
To go away and let the sun and moon
And all the silly stars illuminate
A place for creeping things,
And those that root and trumpet and have wings,
And herd and ruminate,
Or dive and flash and poise in rivers and seas,
Or by their loyal tails in lofty trees
Hang screeching lewd victorious derision
Of man’s immortal vision.
Shall we, because Eternity records
Too vast an answer for the time-born words
We spell, whereof so many are dead that once
In our capricious lexicons
Were so alive and final, hear no more
The Word itself, the living word
That none alive has ever heard
Or ever spelt,
And few have ever felt
Without the fears and old surrenderings
And terrors that began
When Death let fall a feather from his wings
And humbled the first man?
Because the weight of our humility,
Wherefrom we gain
A little wisdom and much pain,
Falls here too sore and there too tedious,
Are we in anguish or complacency,
Not looking far enough ahead
To see by what mad couriers we are led
Along the roads of the ridiculous,
To pity ourselves and laugh at faith
And while we curse life bear it?
And if we see the soul’s dead end in death,
Are we to fear it?
What folly is here that has not yet a name
Unless we say outright that we are liars?
What have we seen beyond our sunset fires
That lights again the way by which we came?
Why pay we such a price, and one we give
So clamoringly, for each racked empty day
That leads one more last human hope away,
As quiet fiends would lead past our crazed eyes
Our children to an unseen sacrifice?
If after all that we have lived and thought,
All comes to Nought,—
If there be nothing after Now,
And we be nothing anyhow,
And we know that,—why live?
’Twere sure but weaklings’ vain distress
To suffer dungeons where so many doors
Will open on the cold eternal shores
That look sheer down
To the dark tideless floods of Nothingness
Where all who know may drown.
There is another sky,
Ever serene and fair,
And there is another sunshine,
Though it be darkness there;
Never mind faded forests, Austin,
Never mind silent fields—
Here is a little forest,
Whose leaf is ever green;
Here is a brighter garden,
Where not a frost has been;
In its unfading flowers
I hear the bright bee hum:
Prithee, my brother,
Into my garden come!
Let us go out and celebrate
Let us dance, sing
And hug one other
The sky has turned blue…
It has brought with it
The spirits of happiness,
It has brought with it a positive energy
The energy to transform our mental vibration…
Let us go out and loose ourselves
Go and be possess by
The spirits of happiness
The sky has turned blue…
Maybe one could notice
One’s mental vibration
Being changed to a high level,
Regardless our five senses…
The sky is an immortal tent built by the Sons of Los:
And every space that a man views around his dwelling-place
Standing on his own roof or in his garden on a mount
Of twenty-five cubits in height, such space is his universe:
And on its verge the sun rises and sets, the clouds bow
To meet the flat earth and the sea in such an order'd space:
The starry heavens reach no further, but here bend and set
On all sides, and the two Poles turn on their valves of gold:
And if he moves his dwelling-place, his heavens also move
Where'er he goes, and all his neighbourhood bewail his loss.
Such are the spaces called Earth and such its dimension.
As to that false appearance which appears to the reasoner
As of a globe rolling through voidness, it is a delusion of Ulro.
The microscope knows not of this nor the telescope: they alter
The ratio of the spectator's organs, but leave objects untouch'd.
For every space larger than a red globule of Man's blood
Is visionary, and is created by the Hammer of Los;
And every space smaller than a globule of Man's blood opens
Into Eternity of which this vegetable Earth is but a shadow.
The red globule is the unwearied sun by Los created
To measure time and space to mortal men every morning.
It is as if white clouds have come to earth.
The sky is falling. Do you mind, my friend?
Moon sheets echo a shining out of time.
Tree limbs cripple the cadence of snow's song.
Eyes tell me that you pity the cold glass.
You write a letter to me in its frost.
Your words weave me a coat of chimney smoke.
That shadow is the warmth I hold  most dear.
Previously published: Voices Israel
Some activity with an addicting done,
Had to purposely afflict them to accept...
Misguided beliefs to condone and not shun,
To keep in their minds with such effectiveness.
To bring them to quickly re-act,
Without a thought process useless.
As if they had none.
'The sky is falling.
The sky is falling! '
~WHERE? WHERE? ~
'Over there.
Can't you see it? '
~I could 'if' I chose to.
But...
Do you mind me asking you this? ~
'NO! Go ahead.
What-what-WHAT?
Hurry up.'
~If the sky is falling over there.
WHY do you rush to get under it?
When the sky is perfectly clear right here? ~
'You?
You're one of those 'nonconformists' aren't you?
EVERYONE! EVERYONE!
Hear me now.
Hear me now.
The sky is falling.
The sky is falling!
We must run to get under it.
Come 'everyone. Come.'
Some activity with an addicting done,
Had to purposely guide them to accept...
Misguided beliefs to condone and not shun,
To keep in their minds with such effectiveness.
To bring them to quickly re-act,
Without a thought process intact...
To examine and enact with facts attached.
The sky is low, the clouds are mean,
A travelling flake of snow
Across a barn or through a rut
Debates if it will go.
A narrow wind complains all day
How some one treated him;
Nature, like us, is sometimes caught
Without her diadem.
Here I lie,
Staring at the sky.
Wishing I could sprout wings
And go there.
Just to fly
And pass the world by.
Moving on but
Going nowhere.
With my freedom
In my kingdom
Above all the stress
I can’t take.
Escape all the noise,
And all that annoys,
Run away from what
I can’t face.
In that serenity,
That’s where I’d love to be.
Floating on like in a dream.
And in that peace,
I think I could see
What living truly means.
In a crowd but all alone.
With all these problems I’ve always known.
I just want to get away
To somewhere.
To get away for a while,
And to find a true smile.
Then I could live with
What I cannot now bare.
I’ll return to Earth
And take on the worst.
Pretty sure I’d be
Just fine.
Head in the clouds,
Living without doubt.
That life is good and
Control is mine.
In that serenity,
That’s where I’d love to be.
Floating on like in a dream.
And in that peace,
I think I could see
Just what living truly means.
Now in serenity.
That’s where I love to be.
Floating on like in a dream.
I find my peace,
I think I begin to see
Just what living truly means.
And now I
Try to find
A free state of mind.
I tried
To find my place to hide.
No more, it’s time
For me to ride the sky.
Soon I come
Down back to home.
All around,
I feel good.
I felt the sun
When I had done
What everyone sometime should.
We find serenity.
Just where we love to be.
Floating on like in a dream.
And in that peace
We all can see
What living truly means.
In serenity,
Again I want to be.
Living life as a dream.
In my peace
I can finally see
What living free means…
“Wasting time
Like it was free…”
“I need serenity”…
The sky is pink
The grass is blue
Up is down
And so are you
To run is walk
When left is right
Hop is fly
And black is white
East is west
The sun is green
The walls above
The floor between
The rain goes up
The dirt comes down
Glad is sad
And smile is frown
To hear is speak
To see is smell
Down are clouds
And up are wells
When you are me
And I am you
Nobody knows
Just what to do
The sky of my sky is the same as yours
And like the dreams of my dreams shall go on
We are the peace keepers and conquistadors
From our cells of the inside to each aeon
We will follow our dreams to clear the way
Aspire and wonder to the steps of the new
And the sunshine's the same wherever we stay
Whether it's cloudy outside or the sky blue
Much of our spirits have made the same thought
Brought us together or driven apart
Schools may differ of what we have been taught
But inside our breasts - beats all the same heart
Follow your dreams on and see them come clear
Give of your knowledge from what you have learned here
The Sky is like Whoa
The Sea is So Low
But Not The Sky
The Sky Is High
Black rolls the phantom chimney-smoke
Beneath the wintry moon;
For miles on miles, by sound unbroke,
The world lies wrapt in its ermine cloak,
And the night's icy swoon
Sways earthward in great brimming wells
Of luminous, frosty particles.
Far up the roadway, drifted deep,
Where frost-etched fences gleam;
Beneath the sky's wan, shimmering sleep
My solitary way I keep
Across the world's white dream;
The only living moving thing
In all this mighty slumbering.
Up in the eastern range of hill,
The thin wood spectrally
Stirs in its sleep and then is still
(Like querulous age) at the wind's will.
My shadow doggedly
Follows my footsteps where I go,
A grotesque giant on the snow.
Out where the river's arms are wound,
And icy sedges cling,
There comes to me as in a swound
A far-off clear, thin, vibrant sound,--
The distant hammering
Of frost-elves as they come and go,
Forging, in silver chains, his woe.
I stand upon the hill's bleak crest
And note the far night world:
The mighty lake whose passionate breast,
Manacled into arctic rest,
In shrouded sleep is furled:
The steely heavens whose wondrous host
Wheel white from flaming coast to coast.
Then down the night's dim luminous ways,
Meseems they come once more,
Those great star-watchers of old days
The lonely, calm-ones, whose still gaze,
On old-time, orient shore,
Dreamed in the wheeling sons of light,
The awful secrets of earth's night.
They come, those lofty ones of old,
And take me by the hand,
And call me brother; ages rolled
Are but a smoke-mist; kindred-souled,
They lift me to their band;
Like lights that from pale starbeams shine,
Their clear eyes look with peace on mine.
In language of no common kind
These watchers speak to me;
Their thoughts the depths of heaven find
Like plummets true. It were a kind
Of immortality
To spend with them one holy hour,
And know their love and grasp their power.
And wrapt around with glad content,
I learn with soul serene,
Caught from the beauty that is blent
In earth, the heaven's luminous tent,
The frost-lit dreams between,
And something holier out of sight,
Glad visions of the infinite.
Then backward past the sere hill's breast,
The spectral moaning wood,
With great peace brooding in my breast,
I turn me toward the common rest
Of earth's worn brotherhood;
But as I pass, a sacred sign,
Each lays his holy lips on mine:--
Gives me the golden chrism of song,
Tips my hushed heart with fire;
Till high in heaven I hear that throng
Who march in mystic paths along,
Great Pleiades, The Lyre,
The Te-Deum of the ages swell,
To earth-tuned ear inaudible.
Look up to the cloudy sky
I can see no stars tonight
Just the silver moon above there
Honey, please know that I really care
I wish I were there with you
You hug me n I kiss you
Look at the moon from our veranda
The Mars and the twinkle little six stars
I am longing to be with you
I miss you sweetheart, it's truely true
I always have you in my heart
I'm with you, you're with me, even we're apart
Good night to you my dearest darling
Wish you sing a beautiful song while I sleeping
Seeing you tonight in my sweet dreams
'Up to the stream' singing together as we're team
The sun has burst the sky
Because I love you
And the river its banks.
The sea laps the great rocks
Because I love you
And takes no heed of the moon dragging it away
And saying coldly 'Constancy is not for you'.
The blackbird fills the air
Because I love you
With spring and lawns and shadows falling on lawns.
The people walk in the street and laugh
I love you
And far down the river ships sound their hooters
Crazy with joy because I love you.
Up with me! up with me into the clouds!
For thy song, Lark, is strong;
Up with me, up with me into the clouds!
Singing, singing,
With clouds and sky about thee ringing,
Lift me, guide me till I find
That spot which seems so to thy mind!
I have walked through wildernesses dreary
And to-day my heart is weary;
Had I now the wings of a Faery,
Up to thee would I fly.
There is madness about thee, and joy divine
In that song of thine;
Lift me, guide me high and high
To thy banqueting-place in the sky.
Joyous as morning
Thou art laughing and scorning;
Thou hast a nest for thy love and thy rest,
And, though little troubled with sloth,
Drunken Lark! thou would'st be loth
To be such a traveller as I.
Happy, happy Liver,
With a soul as strong as a mountain river
Pouring out praise to the Almighty Giver,
Joy and jollity be with us both!
Alas! my journey, rugged and uneven,
Through prickly moors or dusty ways must wind;
But hearing thee, or others of thy kind,
As full of gladness and as free of heaven,
I, with my fate contented, will plod on,
And hope for higher raptures, when life's day is done.
To the stars in the sky
I must sing this song,
For they glitter and die
Both faintly and strong;
Like enchanting melody
That came to my ears,
With longings and memory
That no one ever hears.
I will sing of my wishes
To wherever they go,
What one hopes for and misses
When you love someone so;
Everything that I had
From the past until now,
What once made me so glad
Like a colorful rainbow.
To the stars that I see
On the dark heavens on,
That are faraway and free
Till the night sky is gone;
Like enchanting sweet song
That so softly will flow,
And you hear all day long
Like the past long ago.
Soon I’ll be transported to the sky, to be with my Lord way up high.
I will be lifted up into the clouds, to join the many victorious crowds.
And together we’ll see the face, of Christ who led us by His Grace.
On that day and that special hour, we’ll be changed by His Power.
Friend, this is what’s ahead for me, and all on their way to Eternity.
This is the Hope I have in Christ, which goes beyond temporal life,
He’s gone to prepare a place for us, and in His words I put my trust.
Christ’s coming back again for me, so that where He is I too can be.
We do not know what lies ahead, but, we know what Christ had said.
So be not anxious my dear friend, for this life on earth is not the end.
Soon will come great devastation; for all waiting He brings Salvation.
Jesus is our Blessed Hope my friend; He’s a brighter path to the end.
In Christ we’re on a different path; we weren’t saved to suffer wrath,
Saved by Christ’s Gracious Love, to live with Him forever up above.
When we hear that trumpet sound, all the Saints shall gather round,
Jesus Christ the Eternal King, and together hear the Heavens sing.
My friend, in the twinkling of an eye, we’ll be with The Lord on high,
Changed to be just like The Lord, with new bodies that will endure,
Eternity with our Lord Jesus Christ, as He leads us into Eternal Life.
So friend it’s right to keep our eyes, fixed upon our Lord in the skies.
(Copyright ©12/2005)
Let my soul, a shining tree,
Silver branches lift towards thee,
Where on a hallowed winter’s night
The clear-eyed angels may alight.
And if there should be tempests in
My spirit, let them surge like din
Of noble melodies at war;
With fervour of such blades of triumph as are
Flashed in white orisons of saints who go
On shafts of glory to the ecstasies they know.
Pines against the sky,
Pluming the purple hill;
Pines . . . and I wonder why,
Heart, you quicken and thrill?
Wistful heart of a boy,
Fill with a strange sweet joy,
Lifting to Heaven nigh -
Pines against the sky.
Palms against the sky,
Failing the hot, hard blue;
Stark on the beach I lie,
Dreaming horizons new;
Heart of my youth elate,
Scorning a humdrum fate,
Keyed to adventure high -
Palms against the sky.
Oaks against the sky,
Ramparts of leaves high-hurled,
Staunch to stand and defy
All the winds of the world;
Stalwart and proud and free,
Firing the man in me
To try and again to try -
Oaks against the sky.
Olives against the sky
Of evening, limpidly bright;
Tranquil and soft and shy,
Dreaming in amber light;
Breathing the peace of life,
Ease after toil and strife . . .
Hark to their silver sigh!
Olives against the sky.
Cypresses glooming the sky,
Stark at the end of the road;
Failing and faint am I,
Lief to be eased of my load;
There where the stones peer white
in the last of the silvery light,
Quiet and cold I'll lie -
Cypresses etching the sky.
Trees, trees against the sky -
O I have loved them well!
There are pleasures you cannot buy,
Treasurers you cannot sell,
And not the smallest of these
Is the gift and glory of trees. . . .
So I gaze and I know now why
It is good to live - and to die. . . .
Trees and the Infinite Sky.
Sitting under the sunset sky
Laying around I wonder why
You value me so much more
Than any other you’ve met before
Why you feel so safe by me
And no the others that you see
Sitting under the sunset sky
I find comfort and I sigh
Knowing all is well by you
Having peace in all I do
Watching my troubles fall away
Not wanting then back any day
Sitting under the sunset sky
When you’re sad I want to cry
Feeling you’re sorrow, hurt and pain
When it’s done, all for gain
Drawing away from the past
What’s done is done and shouldn’t last
Sitting under the sunset sky
Only thing to do is deny
The comfort found when we’re alone
Feelings around us never shown
If only to live for how we feel
Soon this love would we seal
Sitting under the sunset sky
Longing for you by and by
Can’t get you off my mind
All the reasons trying to find
Thinking so hard never to know
Why you might care for me so
Sitting under the sunset sky
Hoping you won’t chose another guy
To be the one, to live the life
That good men live, without strife
To be with you is my goal
Are you the match for my soul?
Sitting under the sunset sky
To be with you when I die
Would be the best of any dream
Looking around, you see me beam
I’ve found the one out of all
Now it’s done, this task not small
Walking in the sky,
A man in strange black garb
Encountered a radiant form.
Then his steps were eager;
Bowed he devoutly.
"My Lord," said he.
But the spirit knew him not.
I reach for the end of day
orange, pink, lavender, gray
and watch it slide out of my
fingers as the sun dips behind
the horizon for night to come.
The nights come with blacks and
grays, moon and stars and some
nights clouds draw the drapes to
the sky and I wonder what is up
there, invisible to my eye.
Sometimes I wait for mornings for
those colors to reappear and reach
for wonderful things the sun saw
while on the other side of the
world as I watched the night sky.
With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the sky,
"How silently, and with how wan a face!"
Where art thou? Thou so often seen on high
Running among the clouds a Wood-nymph's race!
Unhappy Nuns, whose common breath's a sigh
Which they would stifle, move at such a pace!
The northern Wind, to call thee to the chase,
Must blow to-night his bugle horn. Had I
The power of Merlin, Goddess! this should be:
And all the stars, fast as the clouds were riven,
Should sally forth, to keep thee company,
Hurrying and sparkling through the clear blue heaven.
But, Cynthia! should to thee the palm be given,
Queen both for beauty and for majesty.
Under the gleaming stars above
For we love live and laughter
sweet heart both you and I
your cheeks just two roses
you keep a happy smile
There a golden flowers shining all the while
With two lovely blue eyes and four golden hair
My heart keep singing as if our love be forever
Spring is here there is music in the air
You are love by all the world
Is smiled upon admired by all
Spring touch is every where
Beautiful shies gold and blue
The melody in your heart
And the love song be forever my darling
1
ଆକାଶରୁ ଆକାଶ
ଗଜାନନ ମିଶ୍ର
ଆକାଶରୁ ଆକାଶ ଗତି ମୋର,
ମୁଁ ଇ ଆକାଶ ଏଠାରେ।
ଆକାଶରେ ନିଆଁ
ଆକାଶରେ ପାଣି।
ଉଭୟ ନିଆଁ ଓ
ପାଣି ଆକାଶ।
ଆକାଶକୁ ଆକାଶରେ ରଖି
ମୁଁ ଛୁଟୁଛି ଦୂରରୁ ଦୂର।
ଆକାଶ ଗତି ମୋର
ଶାନ୍ତିର ବାର୍ତ୍ତାରେ
ମୋର ବସତି।
ସାରା ପୃଥିବୀ ମୋର,
ମୁଁ ସାରା ପୃଥିବୀର ।
ତପୋବନ, ଟିଟିଲାଗଡ, ବଲାଙ୍ଗିର
17/9/2019
2
କେତେ ପାଣି
କିଏ ଜାଣେ
ପଶିଛି କେମିତି!
ପାଣି ଭିତରେ
ମୋ ଘର,
ମୁଁ ଇ ପାଣି ।
ବାହାରେ ଭିତରେ
ଉପରେ ତଳେ
ପାଣି ଆଉ ପାଣି।
ପାଣିର ସମୟ
ପାଣିର ଅର୍ଥ
ପାଣି ଇ ପାଣି!
ପାଣି ପାଇଁ ଜୀବନ,
ପାଣି ପାଇଁ ଯୁଦ୍ଧ,
ପାଣି ବାହାରେ
ଆଉ କିଛି ନାଇଁ।
ପାଣିକୁ
ପାଣିଠି ଛାଡି ଦିଆଯାଉ,
ଯାଉ ପାଣି, ବହିଯାଉ
ନଳବାଟେ ନଟୁ ପରି
ଘୁରୁ ଘୁରୁ।
ପୁଣି ପାଣିକୁ
ପ୍ରସ୍ତୁତ କରାଯାଉ
ନାନାଦି ରଙ୍ଗରେ
ନାନାଦି ଚିତ୍ରରେ।
ପାଣିକୁ କରାଯାଉ
ଗୋଟେ ଜୋକର
ଆଉ ମପା ଯାଉ
ଅନ୍ଧାର ।
All you who sleep tonight
Far from the ones you love,
No hand to left or right
And emptiness above -
Know that you aren't alone
The whole world shares your tears,
Some for two nights or one,
And some for all their years.
A long, long sleep, a famous sleep
That makes no show for dawn
By strech of limb or stir of lid, --
An independent one.
Was ever idleness like this?
Within a hut of stone
To bask the centuries away
Nor once look up for noon?
Preparing for sleep
heedless of my clothing just
undressing the day.
The lateral vibrations caress me,
They leap and caress me,
They work pathetically in my favour,
They seek my financial good.
She of the spear stands present.
The gods of the underworld attend me, O Annubis,
These are they of thy company.
With a pathetic solicitude they attend me;
Undulant,
Their realm is the lateral courses.
Light!
I am up to follow thee, Pallas.
Up and out of their caresses.
You were gone up as a rocket,
Bending your passages from right to left and from left to right
In the flat projection of a spiral.
The gods of drugged sleep attend me,
Wishing me well;
I am up to follow thee, Pallas.
Bells overbrim with sound
And spread from cupolas
Out through the shaking air
Endless unbreaking circles
Cool and clear as water.
A stone dropped in the water
Opens the lips of the pool
And starts the unovertaking
Rings, till the pool is full
Of waves as the air of bells.
The deep-sea bell of sleep
Under the pool of the mind
Flowers in concentric circles
Of annihilation till
Both sight and sound die out,
Both pool and bells are quelled.
Submitted by Stephen Fryer
Rising to the surface
of morning altitude
Often the awakening more
than just a little rude
Yet sometimes the moment's sweet
(and frequently not a little lewd) ...
Floating to billowy consciousness
this day, all soft and warm and nude
(Whoops, that last is not germane at
all, forgive me for a boob!)
Hugging pillow tightly to my
breast, the softness deep and  good...
Join me in smashing down the alarm
as we drift back to limbo's mood
Slip away to that nether region
of freefall slowed and vision skewed
Cuddle up to what you wish, my
love, as rough reality we elude...
Care-charming Sleep, thou easer of all woes,
Brother to Death, sweetly thyself dispose
On this afflicted prince; fall like a cloud
In gentle showers; give nothing that is loud
Or painful to his slumbers; easy, sweet,
And as a purling stream, thou son of Night,
Pass by his troubled senses; sing his pain,
Like hollow murmuring wind or silver rain;
Into this prince gently, oh gently slide,
And kiss him into slumbers like a bride.
the moon
seems very loud
tonight
I need a cloud
to put out the light
In the sky there is nobody asleep. Nobody, nobody.
Nobody is asleep.
The creatures of the moon sniff and prowl about their cabins.
The living iguanas will come and bite the men who do not dream,
and the man who rushes out with his spirit broken will meet on the
street corner
the unbelievable alligator quiet beneath the tender protest of the
stars.
Nobody is asleep on earth. Nobody, nobody.
Nobody is asleep.
In a graveyard far off there is a corpse
who has moaned for three years
because of a dry countryside on his knee;
and that boy they buried this morning cried so much
it was necessary to call out the dogs to keep him quiet.
Life is not a dream. Careful! Careful! Careful!
We fall down the stairs in order to eat the moist earth
or we climb to the knife edge of the snow with the voices of the dead
dahlias.
But forgetfulness does not exist, dreams do not exist;
flesh exists. Kisses tie our mouths
in a thicket of new veins,
and whoever his pain pains will feel that pain forever
and whoever is afraid of death will carry it on his shoulders.
One day
the horses will live in the saloons
and the enraged ants
will throw themselves on the yellow skies that take refuge in the
eyes of cows.
Another day
we will watch the preserved butterflies rise from the dead
and still walking through a country of gray sponges and silent boats
we will watch our ring flash and roses spring from our tongue.
Careful! Be careful! Be careful!
The men who still have marks of the claw and the thunderstorm,
and that boy who cries because he has never heard of the invention
of the bridge,
or that dead man who possesses now only his head and a shoe,
we must carry them to the wall where the iguanas and the snakes
are waiting,
where the bear's teeth are waiting,
where the mummified hand of the boy is waiting,
and the hair of the camel stands on end with a violent blue shudder.
Nobody is sleeping in the sky. Nobody, nobody.
Nobody is sleeping.
If someone does close his eyes,
a whip, boys, a whip!
Let there be a landscape of open eyes
and bitter wounds on fire.
No one is sleeping in this world. No one, no one.
I have said it before.
No one is sleeping.
But if someone grows too much moss on his temples during the
night,
open the stage trapdoors so he can see in the moonlight
the lying goblets, and the poison, and the skull of the theaters.
Come, Sleep! O Sleep, the certain knot of peace,
The baiting-place of wit, the balm of woe,
The poor man's wealth, the prisoner's release,
Th' indifferent judge between the high and low;
With shield of proof shield me from out the press
Of those fierce darts Despair at me doth throw!
O make in me those civil wars to cease!—
I will good tribute pay if thou do so.
Take thou of me smooth pillows, sweetest bed,
A chamber deaf of noise and blind of light,
A rosy garland, and a weary head;
And if these things, as being thine in right,
Move not thy heavy grace, thou shalt in me,
Livelier than elsewhere, Stella's image see.
There’s a mirror likeness between those two
shining, youthfully-fledged figures, though
one seems paler than the other and more austere,
I might even say more perfect, more distinguished,
than he, who would take me confidingly in his arms –
how soft then and loving his smile, how blessed his glance!
Then, it might well have been that his wreath
of white poppies gently touched my forehead, at times,
and drove the pain from my mind with its strange scent.
But that is transient. I can only, now, be well,
when the other one, so serious and pale,
the older brother, lowers his dark torch. –
Sleep is so good, Death is better, yet
surely never to have been born is best.
XLV
Care-charmer Sleep, son of the sable Night,
Brother to Death, in silent darkness born:
Relieve my languish, and restore the light,
With dark forgetting of my cares, return;
And let the day be time enough to mourn
The shipwreck of my ill-adventur'd youth:
Let waking eyes suffice to wail their scorn,
Without the torment of the night's untruth.
Cease dreams, th' imagery of our day-desires,
To model forth the passions of the morrow;
Never let rising sun approve you liars,
To add more grief to aggravate my sorrow.
Still let me sleep, embracing clouds in vain;
And never wake to feel the day's disdain.
My lungs respond, but there's no air,
As I struggle to survive,
It hurts to know that they don't care,
Whether or not I stay alive.
The world is growing dark now,
As I drift toward the light.
I want to cry out somehow;
If I had the strength, I might.
I feel like I am falling,
Into a great abyss.
I hear past loved ones calling,
As I taste Death's tender kiss.
Finally, I have found some peace;
My soul is God's to keep.
I have finally gained release,
By slipping into endless sleep.
SISTER Simplicitie,
Sing, sing a song to me,
Sing me to sleep.
Some legend low and long,
Slow as the summer song
Of the dull Deep.
Some legend long and low,
Whose equal ebb and flow
To and fro creep
On the dim marge of gray
’Tween the soul’s night and day,
Washing “awake” away
Into “asleep.”
Some legend low and long,
Never so weak or strong
As to let go
While it can hold this heart
Withouten sigh or smart,
Or as to hold this heart
When it sighs “No.”
Some long low swaying song,
As the sway’d shadow long
Sways to and fro
Where, thro’ the crowing cocks,
And by the swinging clocks,
Some weary mother rocks
Some weary woe.
Sing up and down to me
Like a dream-boat at sea,
So, and still so,
Float through the “then” and “when,”
Rising from when to then,
Sinking from then to when
While the waves go.
Low and high, high and low,
Now and then, then and now,
Mow, now;
And when the now is then, and when the then is now,
And when the low is high, and when the high is low,
Low, low;
Let me float, let the boat
Go, go;
Let me glide, let me slide
Slow, slow;
Gliding boat, sliding boat,
Slow, slow;
Glide away, slide away
So, so.
Has my heart gone to sleep?
Have the beehives of my dreams
stopped working, the waterwheel
of the mind run dry,
scoops turning empty,
only shadow inside?
No, my heart is not asleep.
It is awake, wide awake.
Not asleep, not dreaming—
its eyes are opened wide
watching distant signals, listening
on the rim of vast silence.
The long day passes with its load of sorrow:
In slumber deep
I lay me down to rest until tomorrow --
Thank God for sleep.
Thank God for all respite from weary toiling,
From cares that creep
Across our lives like evil shadows, spoiling
God's kindly sleep.
We plough and sow, and, as the hours grow later,
We strive to reap,
And build our barns, and hope to build them greater
Before we sleep.
We toil and strain and strive with one another
In hopes to heap
Some greater share of profit than our brother
Before we sleep.
What will it profit that with tears or laughter
Our watch we keep?
Beyond it all there lies the Great Hereafter!
Thank God for sleep!
For, at the last, beseeching Christ to save us
We turn with deep
Heartfelt thanksgiving unto God, who gave us
The Gift of Sleep.
Sweet, warm dark of night
pull me in and hold me tight.
Help me fight this awful scourge
of sleeplessness, and the urge
to give up, get out bed,
to live the life of one Dead.
My mind and mouth are disconnected
as is my soul, it seems infected
with some loopy, crazened curse
from which I cannot wrangle verse
of any meaning or consequence,
much less poetic 'brilliance'...
Sing-song, sing-song - that manic rhythm
drives my brain, my hand, my very innards.
In fact, this morning I awoke
with these first lines like a choke-
hold on my mind - after just four hours
of nothing like sleep, too weak to shower.
At least I rested, this much is true;
my eyes no more bear reddish hue.
Still, I'm not sure which foot is right
and which is wrong, if it's day or if it's night.
Did I just put the cat in the sink -
the dishes out the door, I think?
(But I don't own a cat, so how -?
No, I won't worry about that now...)
My life's a shambles, the house in ruins,
I cannot count from one to two!
Sweet relief, where have you gone? ...
Please hold me, Sleep, sing me a song,
a lullaby of soothing rhyme
to save me from committing crime.
(2.20.06)
Bitterly, England must thou grieve —
Though none of these poor men who died
But did within his soul believe
That death for thee was glorified.
Ever they watched it hovering near —
A mystery beyond thought to plumb —
And often, in loathing and in fear,
They heard cold danger whisper, Come! —
Heard, and obeyed. Oh, if thou weep
Such courage and honour, woe, despair;
Remember too that those who sleep
No more remorse can share.
HOW sleep the brave, who sink to rest
By all their country's wishes blest!
When Spring, with dewy fingers cold,
Returns to deck their hallow'd mould,
She there shall dress a sweeter sod
Than Fancy's feet have ever trod.
By fairy hands their knell is rung;
By forms unseen their dirge is sung;
There Honour comes, a pilgrim grey,
To bless the turf that wraps their clay;
And Freedom shall awhile repair
To dwell, a weeping hermit, there!
Teeth of flowers, hairnet of dew,
hands of herbs, you, perfect wet nurse,
prepare the earthly sheets for me
and the down quilt of weeded moss.
I am going to sleep, my nurse, put me to bed.
Set a lamp at my headboard;
a constellation; whatever you like;
all are good: lower it a bit.
Leave me alone: you hear the buds breaking through . . .
a celestial foot rocks you from above
and a bird traces a pattern for you
so you'll forget . . . Thank you. Oh, one request:
if he telephones again
tell him not to keep trying for I have left . . .
I fellowed sleep who kissed me in the brain,
Let fall the tear of time; the sleeper's eye,
Shifting to light, turned on me like a moon.
So, planning-heeled, I flew along my man
And dropped on dreaming and the upward sky.
I fled the earth and, naked, climbed the weather,
Reaching a second ground far from the stars;
And there we wept I and a ghostly other,
My mothers-eyed, upon the tops of trees;
I fled that ground as lightly as a feather.
'My fathers' globe knocks on its nave and sings.'
'This that we tread was, too, your father's land.'
'But this we tread bears the angelic gangs
Sweet are their fathered faces in their wings.'
'These are but dreaming men. Breathe, and they fade.'
Faded my elbow ghost, the mothers-eyed,
As, blowing on the angels, I was lost
On that cloud coast to each grave-grabbing shade;
I blew the dreaming fellows to their bed
Where still they sleep unknowing of their ghost.
Then all the matter of the living air
Raised up a voice, and, climbing on the words,
I spelt my vision with a hand and hair,
How light the sleeping on this soily star,
How deep the waking in the worlded clouds.
There grows the hours' ladder to the sun,
Each rung a love or losing to the last,
The inches monkeyed by the blood of man.
And old, mad man still climbing in his ghost,
My fathers' ghost is climbing in the rain.
IN midnight sleep, of many a face of anguish,
Of the look at first of the mortally wounded--of that indescribable
look;
Of the dead on their backs, with arms extended wide,
I dream, I dream, I dream.
Of scenes of nature, fields and mountains;
Of skies, so beauteous after a storm--and at night the moon so
unearthly bright,
Shining sweetly, shining down, where we dig the trenches and gather
the heaps,
I dream, I dream, I dream.
Long, long have they pass'd--faces and trenches and fields;
Where through the carnage I moved with a callous composure--or away
from the fallen,
Onward I sped at the time--But now of their forms at night,
I dream, I dream, I dream.                                     10
Sleep, you ornery rascal,
why is it you elude me?
Like a crush, you tease the senses,
you taunt me with your charms.
Needing you, I'm bribed and baited,
much smitten with desire.
Your allure in awkward places
has me always hiding yawns.
You deflower me in a movie,
you corrupt me on my couch.
Should you take up prostitution,
might I gladly buy some time?
Sleep come take me lying down,
not driving in my car!
Then sighing in depravity,
again I call from bed -
Sleep, you naughty pervert,
I want you, take me now!
NOT drowsihood and dreams and mere idless,
Nor yet the blessedness of strength regained,
Alone are in what men call sleep. The past,
My unsuspected soul, my parents’ voice,
The generations of my forbears, yea,
The very will of God himself are there
And potent-working: so that many a doubt
Is wiped away at daylight, many a soil
Washed cleanlier, many a puzzle riddled plain.
Strong, silent forces push my puny self
Towards unguessed issues, and the waking man
Rises a Greatheart where a Slave lay down.
I sleep a lot and read St. Thomas Aquinas
Or The Death of God (that's a Protestant book).
To the right the bay as if molten tin,
Beyond the bay, city, beyond the city, ocean,
Beyond the ocean, ocean, till Japan.
To the left dry hills with white grass,
Beyond the hills an irrigated valley where rice is grown,
Beyond the valley, mountains and Ponderosa pines,
Beyond the mountains, desert and sheep.
When I couldn't do without alcohol, I drove myself on alcohol,
When I couldn't do without cigarettes and coffee, I drove myself
On cigarettes and coffee.
I was courageous. Industrious. Nearly a model of virtue.
But that is good for nothing.
I feel a pain.
not here. Even I don't know.
many islands and continents,
words, bazaars, wooden flutes,
Or too much drinking to the mirror, without beauty,
Though one was to be a kind of archangel
Or a Saint George, over there, on St. George Street.
Please, Doctor,
Not here. No,
Maybe it's too
Unpronounced
Please, Medicine Man, I feel a pain.
I always believed in spells and incantations.
Sure, women have only one, Catholic, soul,
But we have two. When you start to dance
You visit remote pueblos in your sleep
And even lands you have never seen.
Put on, I beg you, charms made of feathers,
Now it's time to help one of your own.
I have read many books but I don't believe them.
When it hurts we return to the banks of certain rivers.
I remember those crosses with chiseled suns and moons
And wizards, how they worked during an outbreak of typhus.
Send your second soul beyond the mountains, beyond time.
Tell me what you saw, I will wait.
Last night I wrestled with poetry
As if a lion wrestling with its prey
I sleep poetry
I dream poetry
I walk poetry on thin line ropes
binding together steeply slopes
I make love to poetry like a new catch
On heat waiting to be let loose from its latch
So out of ten if I am bad, take a pen
And give me a score of five or a four
I constantly make love to poetry
With dramatic grammatical metaphors
The root of my poetic hunger
Is I starve myself a bit longer
In sleep I twiddle my poetic lines
Sharpen them to be as fine as a riddle
I sleep poetry
I drink poetry
Not just to quench my thirst
But to differentiate amongst
Good, Better and Best
There shall come the day
I have to say
When I will definitely call it a truce
When I have run out of poetic juice
2006 - Sylvia Chidi
I see the Four-fold Man, The Humanity in deadly sleep
And its fallen Emanation, the Spectre and its cruel Shadow.
I see the Past, Present and Future existing all at once
Before me. O Divine Spirit, sustain me on thy wings,
That I may awake Albion from his long and cold repose;
For Bacon and Newton, sheath'd in dismal steel, their terrors hang
Like iron scourges over Albion: reasonings like vast serpents
Infold around my limbs, bruising my minute articulations.
I turn my eyes to the schools and universities of Europe
And there behold the Loom of Locke, whose Woof rages dire,
Wash'd by the Water-wheels of Newton: black the cloth
In heavy wreaths folds over every nation: cruel works
Of many Wheels I view, wheel without wheel, with cogs tyrannic
Moving by compulsion each other, not as those in Eden, which,
Wheel within wheel, in freedom revolve in harmony and peace.
Her happy world
A lovely mould
For a scream she gets her food
For another she gets all the good
Cute toys all around
She gets sleep abound
Sleeps as she loves
Screams as she likes!
World of love, world of joy
Till it becomes a broken toy
Let her sleep undisturbed
Lest on age can't be unperturbed!
She may not be spared
Of
Pleasure of love
Pain of its failure
Evil of dowry
Pangs of treachery
Spasm of sexism
Childhood marriage
Agony of miscarriage
Early widowhood
Cruelty of poverty
Vulturous eyes
Casting evil sight
At her long curly hair
And handsome features
Making her a helpless creature!
Let her sleep undisturbed
Amidst her toys duly clutched!
Before she blossoms
Let us hasten
A world order
That Respects women
Extols her virtues
Encourages equality
Ennobles the society!
Let the night sleep
Sleep for ever deep
With the night I sleep
Beyond the world to peep
Universe will sleep
Plants and trees
Birds and bees
Stars and moon
To sleep very soon!
Fruits and flowers
Joy with showers
Will sleep with me and the night
Not to keep the life very tight!
No dawn of the day
Right upto the dooms day!
Sleep permanent
In the world impermanent
I'll sleep without light
My agonies will sleep
My worries will sleep
My pains will sleep
My sins will sleep!
While in sleep
I am pure
I am peace
I am noble!
While my body is asleep
Awake my soul I keep
Sleep akin to death
Death akin to sleep in mirth?
Let the night sleep
Sleep for ever deep
With night I sleep
Sleep to eternity
Soul to merge in Divinity!
Lie still, sleep becalmed, sufferer with the wound
In the throat, burning and turning. All night afloat
On the silent sea we have heard the sound
That came from the wound wrapped in the salt sheet.
Under the mile off moon we trembled listening
To the sea sound flowing like blood from the loud wound
And when the salt sheet broke in a storm of singing
The voices of all the drowned swam on the wind.
Open a pathway through the slow sad sail,
Throw wide to the wind the gates of the wandering boat
For my voyage to begin to the end of my wound,
We heard the sea sound sing, we saw the salt sheet tell.
Lie still, sleep becalmed, hide the mouth in the throat,
Or we shall obey, and ride with you through the drowned.
I cannot sleep—my nights glide on
In one unbroken thought of thee;
And when the gloomy shades are gone,
I start the dawning light to see.
And as I watch the rising morn
Gain slowly o'er the yielding sky,
And mark another day new born,
That glows so brightly—yet must die—
I think how all the hopes we cherish
As transient, though as bright, will be;
And frailest of the hopes that perish
Were mine, that told of love and thee!
Love and Sleep
Lying asleep between the strokes of night
I saw my love lean over my sad bed,
Pale as the duskiest lily's leaf or head,
Smooth-skinned and dark, with bare throat made to bite,
Too wan for blushing and too warm for white,
But perfect-coloured without white or red.
And her lips opened amorously, and said -
I wist not what, saving one word - Delight.
And all her face was honey to my mouth,
And all her body pasture to mine eyes;
The long lithe arms and hotter hands than fire
The quivering flanks, hair smelling of the south,
The bright light feet, the splendid supple thighs
And glittering eyelids of my soul's desire.
I have laid sorrow to sleep;
Love sleeps.
She who oft made me weep
Now weeps.
I loved, and have forgot,
And yet
Love tells me she will not
Forget.
She it was bid me go;
Love goes
By what strange ways, ah! no
One knows.
Because I cease to weep,
She weeps.
Here by the sea in sleep,
Love sleeps.
There was a time when in your face
There dwelt such power, and in your smile
I know not what of magic grace;
They held me captive for a while.
Ah, then I listened for your voice!
Like music every word did fall,
Making the hearts of men rejoice,
And mine rejoiced the most of all.
At sight of you, my soul took flame.
But now, alas! the spell is fled.
Is it that you are not the same,
Or only that my love is dead?
I know not--but last night I dreamed
That you were walking by my side,
And sweet, as once you were, you seemed,
And all my heart was glorified.
Your head against my shoulder lay,
And round your waist my arm was pressed,
And as we walked a well-known way,
Love was between us both confessed.
But when with dawn I woke from sleep,
And slow came back the unlovely truth,
I wept, as an old man might weep
For the lost paradise of youth.
When the night comes then your voice calm down
When the moon begin to sail in the sky
then your eyes are closing down to sleep
You fall asleep while dim light illuminates your room
I love to watch you sleep my little girl
You sleep like a little angel within your dreams
Your hair falls both sides of your face and
your hands  folded in to the blanket
Your pillows and bunnies are speard around you
You breath soft and low while your innocent heart
beat slowly to the merry tune
I love to watch you sleep my little baby
When I want to kiss you to say good night in your sleep
then you toss your head and stretch your little body
and turn around sleep again while holding your pillow
God brought you to me and given you as his gift
and today you are the greatest treasure in my life
Someone to laugh and dance and sing in my home
I love to watch you sleep my angel
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2004 Ravi Sathasivam
She fell asleep on Christmas Eve:
At length the long-ungranted shade
Of weary eyelids overweigh'd
The pain nought else might yet relieve.
Our mother, who had lean'd all day
Over the bed from chime to chime,
Then rais'd herself for the first time,
And as she sat her down, did pray.
Her little work-table was spread
With work to finish. For the glare
Made by her candle, she had care
To work some distance from the bed.
Without, there was a cold moon up,
Of winter radiance sheer and thin;
The hollow halo it was in
Was like an icy crystal cup.
Through the small room, with subtle sound
Of flame, by vents the fireshine drove
And redden'd. In its dim alcove
The mirror shed a clearness round.
I had been sitting up some nights,
And my tired mind felt weak and blank;
Like a sharp strengthening wine it drank
The stillness and the broken lights.
Twelve struck. That sound, by dwindling years
Heard in each hour, crept off; and then
The ruffled silence spread again,
Like water that a pebble stirs.
Our mother rose from where she sat:
Her needles, as she laid them down,
Met lightly, and her silken gown
Settled: no other noise than that.
"Glory unto the Newly Born!"
So, as said angels, she did say;
Because we were in Christmas Day,
Though it would still be long till morn.
Just then in the room over us
There was a pushing back of chairs,
As some who had sat unawares
So late, now heard the hour, and rose.
With anxious softly-stepping haste
Our mother went where Margaret lay,
Fearing the sounds o'erhead--should they
Have broken her long watch'd-for rest!
She stoop'd an instant, calm, and turn'd;
But suddenly turn'd back again;
And all her features seem'd in pain
With woe, and her eyes gaz'd and yearn'd.
For my part, I but hid my face,
And held my breath, and spoke no word:
There was none spoken; but I heard
The silence for a little space.
Our mother bow'd herself and wept:
And both my arms fell, and I said,
"God knows I knew that she was dead."
And there, all white, my sister slept.
Then kneeling, upon Christmas morn
A little after twelve o'clock
We said, ere the first quarter struck,
"Christ's blessing on the newly born!"
Not to sleep all the night long, for pure joy,
Counting no sheep and careless of chimes
Welcoming the dawn confabulation
Of birch, her children, who discuss idly
Fanciful details of the promised coming -
Will she be wearing red, or russet, or blue,
Or pure white? - whatever she wears, glorious:
Not to sleep all the night long, for pure joy,
This is given to few but at last to me,
So that when 1 laugh and stretch and leap from bed
I shall glide downstairs, my feet brushing the carpet
In courtesy to civilized progression,
Though, did 1 wish, I could soar through the open window
And perch on a branch above, acceptable ally
Of the birds still alert, grumbling gently together.
Gentle divinity, how have I merited?
Whither, unfortunate wretch, have I strayed,
Thus of thy bounty to lie disenherited -
I alone whilst every other is paid?
Sleeping are cattle and birds without number,
Beasts of the wilderness rest in their lair;
Even the hills, as if weary, feign slumber,
Even the torment sighs soft in the air.
Lulled are the shuttering waves of the ocean,
Seas in the lap of the land lie at peace.
Only for me in monotonous motion
Day follows day, and there comes no release.
Moonlight & starlight & light of the morning
Seven times flit o'er my feverish cheek.
Once again Dawn's chilly hand offers warning.
Whither, oh whither for rest shall I seek?
Had I the eyes of an Argus, nor heeded
Ever to keep my whole body awake -
Half of the sentries alone being needed -
Still I could never my slumber-thirst slake.
Yet - if there's one in the arms of a lover
Scornful of sleep and the joy that sleep brings,
Come thou to me! I'll not ask thee to cover
My eyes with the fullest extant of thy wings
Happier suitors may sue for such blessing,
I'll beg a touch, be it ever so slight,
Of thy wand, or a whisk of thy garment caressing
My eyelids to droop as it crosses the night.
On this my pensive pillow, gentle Sleep!
Descend, in all thy downy plumage drest:
Wipe with thy wing these eyes that wake to weep,
And place thy crown of poppies on my breast.
O steep my senses in oblivion's balm,
And sooth my throbbing pulse with lenient hand;
This tempest of my boiling blood becalm!
Despair grows mild at thy supreme command.
Yet ah! in vain, familiar with the gloom,
And sadly toiling through the tedious night,
I seek sweet slumber, while that virgin bloom,
For ever hovering, haunts my wretched sight.
Nor would the dawning day my sorrows charm:
Black midnight and the blaze of noon alike
To me appear, while with uplifted arm
Death stands prepar'd, but still delays, to strike.
Only in sleep I see their faces,
Children I played with when I was a child,
Louise comes back with her brown hair braided,
Annie with ringlets warm and wild.
Only in sleep Time is forgotten --
What may have come to them, who can know?
Yet we played last night as long ago,
And the doll-house stood at the turn of the stair.
The years had not sharpened their smooth round faces,
I met their eyes and found them mild --
Do they, too, dream of me, I wonder,
And for them am I too a child?
O sleep, my babe, hear not the rippling wave,
Nor feel the breeze that round thee ling'ring strays
To drink thy balmy breath,
And sigh one long farewell.
Soon shall it mourn above thy wat'ry bed,
And whisper to me, on the wave-beat shore,
Deep murm'ring in reproach,
Thy sad untimely fate.
Ere those dear eyes had open'd on the light,
In vain to plead, thy coming life was sold,
O waken'd but to sleep,
Whence it can wake no more!
A thousand and a thousand silken leaves
The tufted beech unfolds in early spring,
All clad in tenderest green,
All of the self-same shape:
A thousand infant faces, soft and sweet,
Each year sends forth, yet every mother views
Her last not least beloved
Like its dear self alone.
No musing mind hath ever yet foreshaped
The face to-morrow's sun shall first reveal,
No heart hath e'er conceived
What love that face will bring.
O sleep, my babe, nor heed how mourns the gale
To part with thy soft locks and fragrant breath,
As when it deeply sighs
O'er autumn's latest bloom.
Ere on my bed my limbs I lay,
It hath not been my use to pray
With moving lips or bended knees ;
But silently, by slow degrees,
My spirit I to Love compose,
In humble trust mine eye-lids close,
With reverential resignation,
No wish conceived, no thought exprest,
Only a sense of supplication ;
A sense o'er all my soul imprest
That I am weak, yet not unblest,
Since in me, round me, every where
Eternal Strength and Wisdom are.
But yester-night I prayed aloud
In anguish and in agony,
Up-starting from the fiendish crowd
Of shapes and thoughts that tortured me :
A lurid light, a trampling throng,
Sense of intolerable wrong,
And whom I scorned, those only strong !
Thirst of revenge, the powerless will
Still baffled, and yet burning still !
Desire with loathing strangely mixed
On wild or hateful objects fixed.
Fantastic passions ! maddening brawl !
And shame and terror over all !
Deeds to be hid which were not hid,
Which all confused I could not know
Whether I suffered, or I did :
For all seemed guilt, remorse or woe,
My own or others still the same
Life-stifling fear, soul-stifling shame.
So two nights passed : the night's dismay
Saddened and stunned the coming day.
Sleep, the wide blessing, seemed to me
Distemper's worst calamity.
The third night, when my own loud scream
Had waked me from the fiendish dream,
O'ercome with sufferings strange and wild,
I wept as I had been a child ;
And having thus by tears subdued
My anguish to a milder mood,
Such punishments, I said, were due
To natures deepliest stained with sin,--
For aye entempesting anew
The unfathomable hell within,
The horror of their deeds to view,
To know and loathe, yet wish and do !
Such griefs with such men well agree,
But wherefore, wherefore fall on me ?
To be beloved is all I need,
And whom I love, I love indeed.
Sleep baby sleep
May I sing a lullaby.
I am your mum now.
I am your dad now.
I am your angel of love.
I shall protect you always.
You are safe in my hands.
I shall hug you softly.
You can sleep on my chest.
Sleep baby sleep
Sleep, darling
I have a small
daughter called
Cleis, who is
like a golden
flower
I wouldn't
take all Croesus'
kingdom with love
thrown in, for her
---
Don't ask me what to wear
I have no embroidered
headband from Sardis to
give you, Cleis, such as
I wore
and my mother
always said that in her
day a purple ribbon
looped in the hair was thought
to be high style indeed
but we were dark:
a girl
whose hair is yellower than
torchlight should wear no
headdress but fresh flowers
Sleep flies me like a lover
Too eagerly pursued,
Or like a bird to cover
Within some distant wood,
Where thickest boughs roof over
Her secret solitude.
The nets I spread to snare her,
Although with cunning wrought,
Have only served to scare her,
And now she'll not be caught.
To those who best could spare her,
She ever comes unsought.
She lights upon their pillows;
She gives them pleasant dreams,
Grey-green with leaves of willows,
And cool with sound of streams,
Or big with tranquil billows,
On which the starlight gleams.
No vision fair entrances
My weary open eye,
No marvellous romances
Make night go swiftly by;
But only feverish fancies
Beset me where I lie.
The black midnight is steeping
The hillside and the lawn,
But still I lie unsleeping,
With curtains backward drawn,
To catch the earliest peeping
Of the desired dawn.
Perhaps, when day is breaking;
When birds their song begin,
And, worn with all night waking,
I call their music din,
Sweet sleep, some pity taking,
At last may enter in.
13
Sleep is supposed to be
By souls of sanity
The shutting of the eye.
Sleep is the station grand
Down which, on either hand
The hosts of witness stand!
Morn is supposed to be
By people of degree
The breaking of the Day.
Morning has not occurred!
That shall Aurora be—
East of Eternity—
One with the banner gay—
One in the red array—
That is the break of Day!
I watch you, as you sleep,
the glow, a rosy hue
of Roman cheeks,
a tiny trickle, as if glued
onto the crease of lips
so red and so inviting,
your hands asleep
in what they call the warmest spot
of living humans,
I wish I could,
and surely would.
I am your guard tonight,
just sitting here,
prepared to be the death
of horny demons,
should they forget their place
and wander in.
I have now put the final cork away,
and opened up the kitchen clock
to rip the living battery
and put an end to it,
the pulse of time.
I shall be happy just to sit
here, by your side,
and dream about the warmth
of you, in all those feather downs.
For Angie
Sleep my love, sleep.
Rest your head on my breasts
and place yourself into my keep.
Then, dream us on a mighty quest.
To a land where dragons exist.
Where we can run through mystical forests,
as we chase unicorns through the mist.
Then, on pretty balloons will float, I promise.
As through the marsh we must flee.
Toward evil knights guarding the keep,
where the buried treasure is we seek.
Before we escape on the murmuring seas.
Sleep my love, sleep.
Close your eyes and spread your wings.
There is no reason for you to weep,
for in your dreams you are king.
Publish 'Simply Me: Poems'
Publish 'From Me To You: Poems'
Paperback and e-book available on amazon.
That I have to post this upsets me:
My poems are copyright. I am sharing my
poems for you to read not for you to
post willy-nilly to a website, in
your newsletter or anywhere else with out
my permission. I am available, leave me a
message. Especially to those who change
the name of my poem and not give proper
credit. You should be ashamed!
Sleep now, O sleep now,
O you unquiet heart!
A voice crying "Sleep now"
Is heard in my heart.
The voice of the winter
Is heard at the door.
O sleep, for the winter
Is crying "Sleep no more."
My kiss will give peace now
And quiet to your heart -- -
Sleep on in peace now,
O you unquiet heart!
Sleep oh blessed sleep,
the place where I can dream,
of all that I do need
my energy to keep.
Sleep oh blessed sleep,
The place of future hope,
in places far away,
and  love for me to keep
Sleep oh blessed sleep
Lull me with your content,
Keep me ever safe my
souls sanity to keep.
Sleep oh blessed sleep,
Let me emerge at morn,
With clearer thought and mind,
with no more need to weep
Fear no unlicensed entry,
Heed no bombastic talk,
While guards the British Sentry
Pall Mall and Birdcage Walk.
Let European thunders
Occasion no alarms,
Though diplomatic blunders
May cause a cry "To arms!"
Sleep on, ye pale civilians;
All thunder-clouds defy:
On Europe's countless millions
The Sentry keeps his eye!
Should foreign-born rapscallions
In London dare to show
Their overgrown battalions,
Be sure I'll let you know.
Should Russians or Norwegians
Pollute our favoured clime
With rough barbaric legions,
I'll mention it in time.
So sleep in peace, civilians,
The Continent defy;
While on its countless millions
The Sentry keeps his eye!
You said the word that enamors
My hearing. You already forgot. Good.
Sleep peacefully. Your face should
Be serene and beautiful at all hours.
When the seductive mouth enchants
It should be fresh, your speech pleasant;
For your office as lover it's not good
That many tears come from your face.
More glorious destinies reclaim you
That were brought, between the black wells
Of the dark circles beneath your eyes,
the seer in pain.
The bottom, summit of the beautiful victims!
The foolish spade of some barbarous king
Did more harm to the world and your statue.
Sleep, when a soul that her own clouds cover
Wails that sorrow should always keep
Watch, nor see in the gloom above her
Sleep,
Down, through darkness naked and steep,
Sinks, and the gifts of his grace recover
Soon the soul, though her wound be deep.
God beloved of us, all men's lover,
All most weary that smile or weep
Feel thee afar or anear them hover,
Sleep.
We brush the other, invisible moon.
Its caves come out and carry us inside.
I
slowly the ponderous doors of lead imponderous
pushed by a wedging force unthinking opened
how like a cloud I floated down the dim green air
unthinking of the soft violence of odorous winds
the falling plaint of hidden violins
and eyes
following
II
doors unto doors unfolded downward
and I was like unto a sailing ship
stern downward sailing on a dim green sea
unmindful of the rich push of flowery winds
the melting voices of far seraphims
and arms
following
III
slowly the ponderous doors of lead imponderous
lowered above my head in absolute slow closing
quiet as a shadow on a dim green wall
I rested in my dark and ivory vault
the violins were no more nor eyes nor arms
hours on hours
following
she was a short one
getting fat and she had once been
beautiful and
she drank the wine
she drank the wine in bed and
talked and screamed and cursed at
me
and i told her
COME, Sleep, and with thy sweet deceiving
Lock me in delight awhile;
Let some pleasing dreams beguile
All my fancies; that from thence
I may feel an influence
All my powers of care bereaving!
Though but a shadow, but a sliding,
Let me know some little joy!
We that suffer long annoy
Are contented with a thought
Through an idle fancy wrought:
O let my joys have some abiding!
I bless the power of this charmed summer night,
I bless its magic and its mystery,
Which in ecstatic visions brings to me
The worshiped presence of my soul's delight.
Mine eyes are sealed, but on my clearer sight
Her heaven-bright features shine more radiantly,
Her sweet voice with a richer melody
Enchants the dark, more luminous than light.
I miss the sense of daylight's haunting ills,
Bathed in this lambent tide of sleep and love;
I only see one dazzling image beam,
Shrined in a rosy universe of dream,
Fairer than Dian bending tranced above
The sleeping shepherd on the Latmian hills.
Do you give yourself to me utterly,
Body and no-body, flesh and no-flesh
Not as a fugitive, blindly or bitterly,
But as a child might, with no other wish?
Yes, utterly.
Then I shall bear you down my estuary,
Carry you and ferry you to burial mysteriously,
Take you and receive you,
Consume you, engulf you,
In the huge cave, my belly, lave you
With huger waves continually.
And you shall cling and clamber there
And slumber there, in that dumb chamber,
Beat with my blood's beat, hear my heart move
Blindly in bones that ride above you,
Delve in my flesh, dissolved and bedded,
Through viewless valves embodied so –
Till daylight, the expulsion and awakening,
The riving and the driving forth,
Life with remorseless forceps beckoning –
Pangs and betrayal of harsh birth.
Sleep, sleep,
Come my way.
Let me sleep,
So I can start a new day.
Sleep, sleep,
I take my pill.
My mind won't sleep,
Too active with chills.
Sleep, sleep,
Show me how.
What's that, sleep,
How now brown cow?
Sleep, sleep,
My brain is delirious.
Stop playing tricks, sleep,
You're making me furious.
sleep
even  sleep
cannot  close
my  eyes
with  lies.
Love-cradling Night, lit by the lucent moon,
Most pitiful and mother-hearted Night!
Blest armistice in life's tumultuous fight,
Resolving discords to a spheral tune!
When tired with heat and strenuous toil of noon,
With ceaseless conflict betwixt might and right,
With ebb and flow of sorrow and delight,
Our panting hearts beneath their burdens swoon:
To thee, O star-eyes comforter, we creep,
Earth's ill-used step-children to thee make moan,
As hiding in thy dark skirts' ample sweep;
--Poor debtors whose brief life is not their own;
For dunned by Death, to whom we owe its loan,
Give us, O Night, the interest paid in sleep.
Sleep has not visited me the whole night,
Will the dawn ever come?
O my companion,
Once I awoke with a start from a dream.
Now the remembrance from that vision
Never fades.
My life is ebbing as I choke and sigh,
When will the Lord of the Afflicted come
I have lost my senses and gone mad,
But the Lord knows my secret.
He who deals out life and death
Knows the secret of Mira's pain.
In the night of weariness
let me give myself up to sleep without struggle,
resting my trust upon thee.
Let me not force my flagging spirit into a poor preparation for thy worship.
It is thou who drawest the veil of night upon the tired eyes of the day
to renew its sight in a fresher gladness of awakening.
There was a man who didn't know how to sleep; nodding
off every night into a drab, unprofessional sleep. Sleep that
he'd grown so tired of sleeping.
He tried reading The Manual of Sleep, but it just put him
to sleep. That same old sleep that he had grown so tired of
sleeping . . .
He needed a sleeping master, who with a whip and a
chair would discipline the night, and make him jump through
hoops of gasolined fire. Someone who could make a tiger sit
on a tiny pedestal and yawn . . .
Come Sleep; O Sleep! the certain knot of peace,
The baiting-place of wit, the balm of woe,
The poor man's wealth, the prisoner's release,
Th' indifferent judge between the high and low;
With shield of proof shield me from out the prease
Of those fierce darts Despair at me doth throw:
O make in me those civil wars to cease;
I will good tribute pay, if thou do so.
Take thou of me smooth pillows, sweetest bed,
A chamber deaf to noise and blind of light,
A rosy garland and a weary head;
And if these things, as being thine by right,
Move not thy heavy grace, thou shalt in me,
Livelier than elsewhere, Stella's image see.
When to oft sleep we give ourselves away,
And in a dream as in a fairy bark
Drift on and on through the enchanted dark
To purple daybreak -- little thought we pay
To that sweet bitter world we know by day.
We are clean quit of it, as is a lark
So high in heaven no human eye can mark
The thin swift pinion cleaving through the gray.
Till we awake ill fate can do no ill,
The resting heart shall not take up again
The heavy load that yet must make it bleed;
For this brief space the loud world's voice is still,
No faintest echo of it brings us pain.
How will it be when we shall sleep indeed?
Sleep! sleep! beauty bright,
Dreaming o'er the joys of night;
Sleep! sleep! in thy sleep
Little sorrows sit and weep.
Sweet Babe, in thy face
Soft desires I can trace,
Secret joys and secret smiles,
Little pretty infant wiles.
As thy softest limbs I feel,
Smiles as of the morning steal
O'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breast
Where thy little heart does rest.
O! the cunning wiles that creep
In thy little heart asleep.
When thy little heart does wake
Then the dreadful lightnings break,
From thy cheek and from thy eye,
O'er the youthful harvests nigh.
Infant wiles and infant smiles
Heaven and Earth of peace beguiles.
Sleep, sleep, my sweet  one sleep
Let the film of Morpheus come
Like a veiled mist
And visit your eye-lids
And in the airs around
Invisible a sweet sylph sings
A lulling lullaby.
Sleep, sleep, my sweet one sleep
And woes forget and ills
And wrongs and plots
And treacheries:
Like a veiled mist
Dreams are falling through
Falling
Falling
Falling thro’ your eye-lids thick
With the lead of Morpheus awhile
A sylph doth sing
A lulling lullaby.
Sleep, sleep, my sweet one sleep
And think of day and night
And dusk and dawn
And even
As one film images pass
Along your eyes a-dreaming
a-dreaming
A-dreaming
Awhile< br>A sylph doth sing
A lulling lullaby.
Sleep, sleep, sleep
And keep
Eyes open
To feel in heaven
I shall come
To welcome
And take in arms
To keep you warm
I shall remind
You to find me
In your presence
Without feeling tense
This is the life that we wanted
And felt so excited
The dream is realized
You look so dazed
It is reality
That has been blessed by an almighty
Let us not be carried away
But cheerfully stay
SLEEP
Sleep, sleep, sleep
It’s magnificent and nice,
With dreams beyond wonder,
Sleep! sleep! sleep!
Sleep, sleep, sleep
Eyes tightly closed,
A little smile on you r cheeks,
Feeling the warm sensations
Of the pure and precious sleep,
Sleep! sleep! sleep!
Sleep, sleep, sleep
Forgetting insane things of the mixed world outside
Relax my little one, feel the gentle breeze,
Do not worry about tomorrow, do not weep,
Wake up fresh in the morn with a recuperated mind,
Fresh and blessed with a wonderful sleep,
SLEEP, SLEEP, SLEEP!
JERINE JAMES (3RD JULY 07)
In the night there are of course the seven wonders
of the world and the greatness tragedy and enchantment.
Forests collide with legendary creatures hiding in thickets.
There is you.
In the night there are the walker's footsteps the murderer's
the town policeman's light from the street lamp and the ragman's lantern
There is you.
In the night trains go past and boats
and the fantasy of countries where it's daytime. The last breaths
of twilight and the first shivers of dawn.
There is you.
A piano tune, a shout.
A door slams. A clock.
And not only beings and things and physical sounds.
But also me chasing myself or endlessly going beyond me.
There is you the sacrifice, you that I'm waiting for.
Sometimes at the moment of sleep strange figures are born and disappear.
When I shut my eyes phosphorescent blooms appear and fade
and come to life again like fireworks made of flesh.
I pass through strange lands with creatures for company.
No doubt you are there, my beautiful discreet spy.
And the palpable soul of the vast reaches.
And perfumes of the sky and the stars the song of a rooster
from 2000 years ago and piercing screams in a flaming park and kisses.
Sinister handshakes in a sickly light and axles grinding on paralyzing roads.
No doubt there is you who I do not know, who on the contrary I do know.
But who, here in my dreams, demands to be felt without ever appearing.
You who remain out of reach in reality and in dream.
You who belong to me through my will to possess your illusion
but who brings your face near mine only if my eyes are closed in dream as well as
in reality.
You who in spite of an easy rhetoric where the waves die on the beach
where crows fly into ruined factories, where the wood rots
crackling under a lead sun.
You who are at the depths of my dreams stirring up a mind
full of metamorphoses leaving me your glove
when I kiss your hand.
In the night there are stars and the shadowy motion of the sea,
of rivers, forests, towns, grass and the lungs
of millions and millions of beings.
In the night there are the seven wonders of the world.
In the night there are no guardian angels, but there is sleep.
In the night there is you.
In the daylight too.
Who stole sleep from baby's eyes? I must know.
Clasping her pitcher to her waist mother went to fetch water
from the village near by.
It was noon. The children's playtime was over; the ducks in
the pond were silent.
The shepherd boy lay asleep under the shadow of the banyan
tree.
The crane stood grave and still in the swamp near the mango
grove.
In the meanwhile the Sleep-stealer came and, snatching sleep
from baby's eyes, flew away.
When mother came back she found baby travelling the room over
on all fours.
Who stole sleep from our baby's eyes? I must know. I must find
her and chain her up.
I must look into that dark cave, where, through boulders and
scowling stones, trickles a tiny stream.
I must search in the drowsy shade of the bakula grove, where
pigeons coo in their corner, and fairies' anklets tinkle in the
stillness of starry nights.
In the evening I will peep into the whispering silence of the
bamboo forest, where fireflies squander their light, and will ask
every creature I meet, "Can anybody tell me where the Sleep-stealer
lives?"
Who stole sleep from baby's eyes? I must know.
Shouldn't I give her a good lesson if I could only catch her!
I would raid her nest and see where she hoards all her stolen
sleep.
I would plunder it all, and carry it home.
I would bind her two wings securely, set her on the bank of
the river, and then let her play at fishing with a reed among the
rushes and water-lilies.
When the marketing is over in the evening, and the village
children sit in their mothers' laps, then the night birds will
mockingly din her ears with:
"Whose sleep will you steal now?"
Markov took off his boots and, with a deep breath, lay down on the divan.
He felt sleepy but, as soon as he closed his eyes, the desire for sleep immediately passed. Markov opened his eyes and stretched out his hand for a book. But sleep again came over him and, not even reaching the book, Markov lay down and once more closed his eyes. But, the moment his eyes closed, sleepiness left him again and his consciousness became so clear that Markov could solve in his head algebraical problems involving equations with two unknown quantities.
Markov was tormented for quite some time, not knowing what to do: should he sleep or should he liven himself up? Finally, exhausted and thoroughly sick of himself and his room, Markov put on his coat and hat, took his walking cane and went out on to the street. The fresh breeze calmed Makarov down, he became rather more at one with himself and felt like going back home to his room.
Upon going into his room, he experienced an agreeable bodily fatigue and felt like sleeping. But, as soon as he lay down on the divan and closed his eyes, his sleepiness instantly evaporated.
In a fury, Markov jumped up from his divan and, hatless and coatless, raced off in the direction of Tavrichesky Park.
When the Sun shines brightly
Don't stay in the cricket field.
You are sick, you don't know
People are more sick than you.
If you feel bad, if you sweat
And ask for a glass of water
They won't give you.
Even the woman for whose ward
You collapsed to death.
Sleep gently, sleep,
Don't awake until I call you.
The blunt faced devils are there
Ready to give you hemlock.
They killed you, they pushed you
To the darkest domain.
Yet, you are pure, gentle, lovable.
Which dream did you dream
When you were leaving this world?
The chuckle and the half-closed eye,
Your words, voice haunt me always.
Be there near the forest of love
Unless get you.
Or sleep dear sleep until I call you!
Time to rest our eyes
We visit imagination
Best vacation of mind
Hidden desires, lost memories
Hopeful prayers aren't blind
Stand up and speak clear
When in real time-we sleep
Viewing is on the clock
More thoughts to keep
Time to rest in hours
Dreaming in peace
Sleeping in peace
Fear isn't common
Occuring once a blue
Control your eyes
Wake up for two
This is a test
Prepare for life
Dream to make
Sleep to dream.
Oh! go to sleep, my baby dear,
And I will hold thee on my knee;
Thy mother's in her winding sheet,
And thou art all that's left to me.
My hairs are white with grief and age,
I've borne the weight of every ill,
And I would lay me with my child,
But thou art left to love me still.
Should thy false father see thy face,
The tears would fill his cruel e'e,
But he has scorned thy mother's woe,
And he shall never look on thee:
But I will rear thee up alone,
And with me thou shalt aye remain;
For thou wilt have thy mother's smile,
And I shall see my child again.
Happy in sleep, waking content to languish,
Embracing clouds by night; in daytime, mourn;
All things I loath save her and mine own anguish,
Pleas'd in my hurt inured to live forlorn.
Nought do I crave but love, death, or my Lady,
Hoarse with crying mercy, mercy yet my merit;
So man vows and prayers e'er made I,
That now at length t'yield, mere pity were it.
But still the Hydra of my cares renewing,
Revives new sorrows of her fresh disdaining;
Still must I go the summer winds pursuing,
Finding no end nor period of my paining.
Wail all my life, my griefs do touch so nearly,
And thus I live, because I love her dearly.
Come Sleep! O Sleep, the certain knot of peace,
The baiting-place of wit, the balm of woe,
The poor man's wealth, the prisoner's release,
Th' indifferent judge between the high and low.
With shield of proof shield me from out the prease
Of those fierce darts despair at me doth throw:
O make in me those civil wars to cease;
I will good tribute pay, if thou do so.
Take thou of me smooth pillows, sweetest bed,
A chamber deaf to noise and blind to light,
A rosy garland and a weary head:
And if these things, as being thine by right,
Move not thy heavy grace, thou shalt in me,
Livelier than elsewhere, Stella's image see.
All night the cocks crew, under a moon like day,
And I, in the cage of sleep, on a stranger's breast,
Shed tears, like a task not to be put away---
In the false light, false grief in my happy bed,
A labor of tears, set against joy's undoing.
I would not wake at your word, I had tears to say.
I clung to the bars of the dream and they were said,
And pain's derisive hand had given me rest
From the night giving off flames, and the dark renewing.
Over the edge of the purple down,
Where the single lamplight gleams,
Know ye the road to the Merciful Town
That is hard by the Sea of Dreams--
Where the poor may lay their wrongs away,
And the sick may forget to weep?
But we--pity us! Oh, pity us!
We wakeful; ah, pity us! --
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Weary they turn from the scroll and crown,
Fetter and prayer and plough--
They that go up to the Merciful Town,
For her gates are closing now.
It is their right in the Baths of Night
Body and soul to steep,
But we--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We must go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
Over the edge of the purple down,
Ere the tender dreams begin,
Look--we may look--at the Merciful Town,
But we may not enter in!
Outcasts all, from her guarded wall
Back to our watch we creep:
We--pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us!--
We that go back with Policeman Day--
Back from the City of Sleep!
When we have laid aside our last endeavour,
And said farewell to one or two that weep,
And issued from the house of life for ever,
To find a lodging in the house of sleep -
With eyes fast shut, in sunless chambers lying,
With folded arms unmoved upon the breast,
Beyond the noise of sorrow and of crying,
Beyond the dread of dreaming, shall we rest?
Or shall there come at last desire of waking,
To walk again on hillsides that we know,
When sunrise through the cold white mist is breaking,
Or in the stillness of the after-glow?
Shall there be yearning for the sound of voices,
The sight of faces, and the touch of hands,
The will that works, the spirit that rejoices,
The heart that feels, the mind that understands?
Shall dreams and memories crowding from the distance,
Shall ghosts of old ambition or of mirth,
Create for us a shadow of existence,
A dim reflection of the life of earth?
And being dead, and powerless to recover
The substance of the show whereon we gaze,
Shall we be likened to the hapless lover,
Who broods upon the unreturning days?
Not so: for we have known how swift to perish
Is man's delight when youth and health take wing,
Until the winter leaves him nought to cherish
But recollections of a vanished spring.
Dream as we may, desire of life shall never
Disturb our slumbers in the house of sleep.
Yet oh, to think we may not greet for ever
The one or two that, when we leave them, weep!
Ere on my bed my limbs I lay,
It hath not been my use to pray
With moving lips or bended knees ;
But silently, by slow degrees,
My spirit I to Love compose,
In humble trust mine eye-lids close,
With reverential resignation,
No wish conceived, no thought exprest,
Only a sense of supplication ;
A sense o'er all my soul imprest
That I am weak, yet not unblest,
Since in me, round me, every where
Eternal Strength and Wisdom are.
But yester-night I prayed aloud
In anguish and in agony,
Up-starting from the fiendish crowd
Of shapes and thoughts that tortured me :
A lurid light, a trampling throng,
Sense of intolerable wrong,
And whom I scorned, those only strong !
Thirst of revenge, the powerless will
Still baffled, and yet burning still !
Desire with loathing strangely mixed
On wild or hateful objects fixed.
Fantastic passions ! maddening brawl !
And shame and terror over all !
Deeds to be hid which were not hid,
Which all confused I could not know
Whether I suffered, or I did :
For all seemed guilt, remorse or woe,
My own or others still the same
Life-stifling fear, soul-stifling shame.
So two nights passed : the night's dismay
Saddened and stunned the coming day.
Sleep, the wide blessing, seemed to me
Distemper's worst calamity.
The third night, when my own loud scream
Had waked me from the fiendish dream,
O'ercome with sufferings strange and wild,
I wept as I had been a child ;
And having thus by tears subdued
My anguish to a milder mood,
Such punishments, I said, were due
To natures deepliest stained with sin,--
For aye entempesting anew
The unfathomable hell within,
The horror of their deeds to view,
To know and loathe, yet wish and do !
Such griefs with such men well agree,
But wherefore, wherefore fall on me ?
To be beloved is all I need,
And whom I love, I love indeed.
Put the sweet thoughts from out thy mind,
The dreams from out thy breast;
No joy for thee--but thou shalt find
Thy rest
All day I could not work for woe,
I could not work nor rest;
The trouble drove me to and fro,
Like a leaf on the storm's breast.
Night came and saw my sorrow cease;
Sleep in the chamber stole;
Peace crept about my limbs, and peace
Fell on my stormy soul.
And now I think of only this,--
How I again may woo
The gentle sleep-- who promises
That death is gentle too.
45
There's something quieter than sleep
Within this inner room!
It wears a sprig upon its breast—
And will not tell its name.
Some touch it, and some kiss it—
Some chafe its idle hand—
It has a simple gravity
I do not understand!
I would not weep if I were they—
How rude in one to sob!
Might scare the quiet fairy
Back to her native wood!
While simple-hearted neighbors
Chat of the "Early dead"—
We—prone to periphrasis
Remark that Birds have fled!
It has been so long since I've watched you sleeping;
Watched the blue night descend on your body like a thick blanket.
Sometimes, your hair would cast itself like a net,
Snaring your face in fragile, moth-like tendrils.
Othertimes, your mouth would split open like overripe plums
Spilling their flesh on hot, black earth
Shattering the pregnant silence,
And beckoning the dawn.
I watch you in that silence of mine
That you know so well
Envying you
Your vulnerability,
Your abandon,
Your humanness-
Outside the window,
A Don Quixote dawn gallops mercilessly
Along the eastern edges of sky,
And you,
Like the night,
Slowly recede into memory.
When wilt thou wake, O Mother, wake and see -
As one who, held in trance, has laboured long
By vacant rote and prepossession strong -
The coils that thou hast wrought unwittingly;
Wherein have place, unrealized by thee,
Fair growths, foul cankers, right enmeshed with wrong,
Strange orchestras of victim-shriek and song,
And curious blends of ache and ecstasy? -
Should that morn come, and show thy opened eyes
All that Life's palpitating tissues feel,
How wilt thou bear thyself in thy surprise? -
Wilt thou destroy, in one wild shock of shame,
Thy whole high heaving firmamental frame,
Or patiently adjust, amend, and heal?
I would like to sing someone to sleep,
have someone to sit by and be with.
I would like to cradle you and softly sing,
be your companion while you sleep or wake.
I would like to be the only person
in the house who knew: the night outside was cold.
And would like to listen to you
and outside to the world and to the woods.
The clocks are striking, calling to each other,
and one can see right to the edge of time.
Outside the house a strange man is afoot
and a strange dog barks, wakened from his sleep.
Beyond that there is silence.
My eyes rest upon your face wide-open;
and they hold you gently, letting you go
when something in the dark begins to move.
To sleep
perchance to...snore!
I can only dream
of peaceful sleep.
Like MacBeth
you've murdered sleep.
My sleep!
Ay, there's the rub!
I lie awake
misquoting Shakespeare
to myself.
O SOFT embalmer of the still midnight!
Shutting, with careful fingers and benign,
Our gloom-pleas'd eyes, embower'd from the light,
Enshaded in forgetfulness divine;
O soothest Sleep! if so it please thee, close,
In midst of this thine hymn, my willing eyes.
Or wait the Amen, ere thy poppy throws
Around my bed its lulling charities;
Then save me, or the passed day will shine
Upon my pillow, breeding many woes;
Save me from curious conscience, that still hoards
Its strength for darkness, burrowing like a mole;
Turn the key deftly in the oiled wards,
And seal the hushed casket of my soul.
MEASURE me out from the fathomless tun
That somewhere or other you keep
In your vasty cellars, O wealthy one,
Twenty gallons of sleep.
Twenty gallons of balmy sleep,
Dreamless, and deep, and mild,
Of the excellent brand you used to keep
When I was a little child.
I’ve tasted of all your vaunted stock,
Your clarets and ports of Spain,
The liquid gold of your famous hock,
And your matchless dry champagne.
Of your rich muscats and your sherries fine,
I’ve drunk both well and deep;
Then measure me out, O merchant mine,
Twenty gallons of sleep.
Twenty gallons of slumber soft,
Of the innocent, baby kind,
When the angels flutter their wings aloft
And the pillow with down is lined.
I have drawn the corks, and drained the lees,
Of every vintage pressed;
If I’ve felt the sting of my honey bees,
I’ve taken it with the rest.
I have lived my life, and I’ll not repine;
As I sowed I was bound to reap;
Then measure me out, O merchant mine,
Twenty gallons of sleep.
I would like to watch you sleeping,
which may not happen.
I would like to watch you,
sleeping. I would like to sleep
with you, to enter
your sleep as its smooth dark wave
slides over my head
and walk with you through that lucent
wavering forest of bluegreen leaves
with its watery sun & three moons
towards the cave where you must descend,
towards your worst fear
I would like to give you the silver
branch, the small white flower, the one
word that will protect you
from the grief at the center
of your dream, from the grief
at the center I would like to follow
you up the long stairway
again & become
the boat that would row you back
carefully, a flame
in two cupped hands
to where your body lies
beside me, and as you enter
it as easily as breathing in
I would like to be the air
that inhabits you for a moment
only. I would like to be that unnoticed
& that necessary.
Come, let us to the sunways of the west,
Hasten, while crystal dews the rose-cups fill,
Let us dream dreams again in our blithe quest
O'er whispering wold and hill.
Castles of air yon wimpling valleys keep
Where milk-white mist steals from the purpling sea,
They shall be ours in the moon's wizardry,
While the fates, wearied, sleep.
The viewless spirit of the wind will sing
In the soft starshine by the reedy mere,
The elfin harps of hemlock boughs will ring
Fitfully far and near;
The fields will yield their trove of spice and musk,
And balsam from the glens of pine will fall,
Till twilight weaves its tangled shadows all
In one dim web of dusk.
Let us put tears and memories away,
While the fates sleep time stops for revelry;
Let us look, speak, and kiss as if no day
Has been or yet will be;
Let us make friends with laughter 'neath the moon,
With music on the immemorial shore,
Yea, let us dance as lovers danced of yore­
The fates will waken soon!
I know it must be winter (though I sleep) --
I know it must be winter, for I dream
I dip my bare feet in the running stream,
And flowers are many, and the grass grows deep.
I know I must be old (how age deceives!)
I know I must be old, for, all unseen,
My heart grows young, as autumn fields grow green,
When late rains patter on the falling sheaves.
I know I must be tired (and tired souls err) --
I know I must be tired, for all my soul
To deeds of daring beats a glad, faint roll,
As storms the riven pine to music stir.
I know I must be dying (Death draws near) --
I know I must be dying, for I crave
Life -- life, strong life, and think not of the grave,
And turf-bound silence, in the frosty year.
When against earth a wooden heel
Clicks as loud as stone on steel,
When stone turns flour instead of flakes,
And frost bakes clay as fire bakes,
When the hard-bitten fields at last
Crack like iron flawed in the cast,
When the world is wicked and cross and old,
I long to be quit of the cruel cold.
Little birds like bubbles of glass
Fly to other Americas,
Birds as bright as sparkles of wine
Fly in the nite to the Argentine,
Birds of azure and flame-birds go
To the tropical Gulf of Mexico:
They chase the sun, they follow the heat,
It is sweet in their bones, O sweet, sweet, sweet!
It's not with them that I'd love to be,
But under the roots of the balsam tree.
Just as the spiniest chestnut-burr
Is lined within with the finest fur,
So the stoney-walled, snow-roofed house
Of every squirrel and mole and mouse
Is lined with thistledown, sea-gull's feather,
Velvet mullein-leaf, heaped together
With balsam and juniper, dry and curled,
Sweeter than anything else in the world.
O what a warm and darksome nest
Where the wildest things are hidden to rest!
It's there that I'd love to lie and sleep,
Soft, soft, soft, and deep, deep, deep!
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work:
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work.
Oh free me please with gentle ease
From work, sleep, work, sleep, work!
This odium, pounding tedium
Of my work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
Just whisk me off to lands afar
From work, sleep, work, sleep, work -
That grinding train of rhythmic pain
Called ‘Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.’
Poor neural circuits fizzle and pop
In work, sleep, work, sleep, work,
In trying to make some sense of all this
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
But Hark! I see a golden gleam -
A saving spirit of hope:
‘You’re fired! ’ He screams. What news to bear,
This wondrous hangman’s rope!
So now I’m free, released from all this
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work -
Eternal peace and rest for me, no
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
She sleeps as my tired old eyes make love to her....
Her long grey hair frames her gentle face and softly touches
Both of her round and dimpled alabaster colored shoulders
My sense of smell is enticed beyond any simple fantasy
The fullness of her gardenia powdered hips and thighs
Leave me breathless and still filled with the same anticipation
As when we were both so young....
I find that one spot in the small of her back with my fingers
And without disturbing her
I place a warm wet kiss there for my safe keeping...
2007 © T Sheridan
Beside the drowsy streams that creep
Within this island of repose,
Oh, let us rest from cares and woes,
Oh, let us fold our hands to sleep!
Is it ignoble, then, to keep
Awhile from where the rough wind blows,
And all is strife, and no man knows
What end awaits him on the deep?
The voyager may rest awhile,
When rest invites, and yet may be
Neither a sluggard nor a craven.
With strength renewed he quits the isle,
And putting out again to sea,
Makes sail for his desired haven.
You like to talk in your sleep.
Your dream must be so deep.
You say the words I want to hear.
You say you always want me near.
And I know that its true
Cause I hear it
When I'm sleeping next to you.
And in the morning when you wake,
My hand you will take.
You will put it to your heart,
And the day we will start.
And when you're dreaming again in bed
I'll hear the loving things that will be said.
One night I was in charge of the house
When my parents had gone out side
I was having loads of fun
With the radio blaring and paper planes that glide
Soon enough I got bored
So I went to the garden for a walk
When suddenly I saw a snake
Just next to a rock
It was definitely a snake
And it was the biggest one I have ever seen
It must have been a mile long
And its body was a sickening shade of green
I called the police, ambulance, fire department,
Forest officials and held a news conference
I waited feeling excited
While I clutched at the fence
Soon enough they poured in
And peered at the snake
They were amazed at its length
But no one the snake would touch or take
They gave me facts every ten minutes about the snake
And it’s a new species discovered, I learned
Just when I was going to have a closer look at the snake
My parents returned
My father looked angrily at the crowd
I got scared and scrunched up my toes
He asked “Can you explain why these people
Are crowding around my garden hose? ”
Something moves in the tall forest grass
the smooth skin shines in the sun
a skin with scales
of both brown and yellow
The snake scans the ground
with lidless unblinking eyes
its ears intent
hidden by a piece of skin
It spots something moving
a small frightened mouse
hiding in a clump of grass
trying to avoid the stare
The snake has already eaten
but gives the mouse a stare
the mouse runs off
the snake looks on
its tongue flicking in and out
now and then
The tired snake
coils itself up like an old rope
and goes to sleep
a snake is bitten by another snake
it is bleeding and leaves and looks for a tree
to take some sap
for its own cure,
a boy sees what the snake is doing
waits and when the snake leaves
the boy bites the tree
to take the sap
the boy is cured of its long sickness
the tree had long been there near him
but it is the snake that points to him
the tree that can cure his own malady.
Adam is the man
obedient son of God
placed as the favored one in Paradise
and of all the fruits
he must all eat
except
the Apple (they say it could
be an apricot
or a pear, some ways to confuse
this myth of an apple
of discord)
the source of the test
for the temptation
to eat or not to eat? that is the
question, and then comes the villain
Snake
the Seducer promising that if Adam
eats the Apple
he will know
Right from Wrong
Pleasure from Pain
Sorrow from Joy
Is this not good after all for Man
to be Enlightened? I ask.
Let us not put Eve in the picture
even then
granting that the myth is true
or is it a way of literature telling
us
Man must not know much
He must only obey
and not Use his own Mind
If i were Adam, i will do the same
Less Eve, I shall grab the apple and
chew it well, swallow it all
lick the last dropp of its pulp.
I like to be responsible for myself Now.
To know Myself
That i have committed Sin
or that i have pleased God sometimes
or that i have too
displeased Him.
The Apple
Even without the Snake I know
I shall love the taste
And happier outside the gates
of Paradise
Lots of places to go, Now,
adventures to make, which of course,
enlarges the volume of the Bible
a thicker book, more pages to read
and increase its sales.
The voices of our foremothers are not lost;
they're conjoined
as strong as ligaments
when the rest of the body is torn apart,
burnt, branded or rain washed,
beaten, scorned, denied
and condemned to be forgotten
as our history began with Eve, the snake,
and the dreadful apple.
We are all part of this sisterhood
of a violent, and static past
a crushing finger print
of blood and sadness
of broken, or missing bones
never to be healed or mended. This silence
is too much to bear..so is the burden
of all the words, tears and screams that never
left the domestic space. The world was seen
only through a small window
through distant, foreign eyes,
through other words that compose
a stranger language, where feelings
do not come straight from the heart.
But tiny miracles are unfolded by the waves of
an untamed sea; on the shore
on the sand banks, where shells crack
and a traveller's leg gets
tangled in weeds
you can still see their footprints
and the echo of their voice
still lingering in the breeze
revived and poignant,
but pleasant
yet so familiar
like a chorus of a lost song
which reminds you of childhood,
the memories you hold dear
or a lullaby mother used to sing to you
just before you went to sleep.
You're older now..Your hands are trembling
and in your voice you find something else-
a strenght that motivates you
above all to carry on the fight,
as behind a misty veil
a new life springs in the middle
of the ruins, in the dead of night
where silent witnesses hold their tongues
in celestial, but stone-like palsy.
(few days back I saw  A big snake in my dreams, the same snake which was in this poem about to hurt me tomorrow..29/09/09..9am)
THE SNAKE
At the right
UNDER SHELF...silence   THERE IN  A BOX
ready TO BITE
..................................... ...............                         ................................................. ........
ME AND SHE WENT TO THERE
without key...
BUT FOR ME ALWAYS DARE
NEVER BEEN HYPOCRITE
every thing was clear,
every scene was bright
..one bird and a hen...............patients families,
another couple of snakes but smal were  there in the sight..
the small bird was smart, watching there from apart
for a call the other girl did she go
for a one as i guess was snake but little tall
on the desk 254 I did write, no drohan was at all
an error..then a line very light i drew
he was the one whom forced them to put a sign
but for me I refused as I used to..with no fight
............................................. ................................................. ...........................
WITH NO SOUND MY SCREEM..... HELP AND HELP
NO ONE HEARED AS IT SEEMS
KNOCKING WINDOWS... KNOCKING DOOR
WHILE THE SMALL FLOATING THERE ON THE FLOOR
NO ONE HELPED... NO ONE DARRRRRRRRRRRRE
THE BIG ONE STAYED  STILLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
SLOWLY  MOVING WANT TO KILLLLLLLLLL
HER STOMACH WANT TO FILLLLLLLLLLL
THEN THE HEN WAS SWALLOWED
my friend was the hen...............my friend was the bell.............
................................................. ......
ONE OF THE BIG CAME
HE WAS WATCHING KILLING GAME
the small one with no tail
while the remained colored pale
EVERY THING TURNED TO HELL
WITH MY SHOES I CRUSHED
MANAGER FACE WAS FLUSHED
The cute bird was smart, watching there from a part
NOW THE BIG READY TO BITE
BUT MY BEACH SHE CAN'T REACH
CAN'T REACH  THE MINd's HIGHT
as  for me always given anti dot
my dreams warning me, always right, always hot
NOW I'M READY FOR THE SHOT
not for me..but for  her..isthe   WHITE... colored black is her  DOT
DROHAN254....30/01/07
a dream about a true story..i was the small bird..my friend was the hen...the snakes were the one who made a trap for her, she was a victim, stabbed by many as she dared to say no......the same snakes tried many times to kill me but always my dreams warned me and made me ready for any shot................the dream is described exactly as it was.........................................still i have that pain my friend...
Dancing
with you;
a snake charmer
Χορεύω
μαζί σου ·
ένας γητευτής φιδιών
'What other sound could I make
That would work so well? '
Asked the curious rattlesnake.
A snake is there,
In that cage,
The snake tries
To go out.
The snake is
My partner,
My friend.
But I am not
There in
The actions
Of the snake.
With the snake
I fear my safety.
But the snake
Is there
As it is.
Let the snake
Go, wherever
It likes.
But I like
The snake
Should stay in.
I believe
The snake
Not in full
And I commit
The blunder.
Snake, my dear,
Come on with
All comfort.
A Snake In The Grass.
Yesterday I saved a life
In the long grass
Over near yonder lake
It lay silent like moss
Watching us approach
Sensing my threat
But I am old enough now
To 6th sense such behaviour
I live amidst all manner of felons
And I move among them
Quickly I whistled my dog to me
Leave it was all I had to say
Leave it to its life, to its day
And we did without fuss
With her smiling tongue wagging
And my heart peaceful
And the beautiful copper creature
Sliding off into the lake
Tongue flicking
Sunset bound.
A snake is a snake is a snake
He cannot change his scales.
Hypnotic eyes in a clear blue lake,
Or out on a rocky trail.
Beware the Vipers, from the pit
Only one will sound a warning.
A temporary lapse, and there's a hit
It might be your last morning.
A snake seizes a mouse
And very easily swallows it
Likewise Almighty is always alert
And in due course of time He strike
The greedy who is running after
Material enjoyment always.
"You talk of snakes," said Jack the Rat,
"But blow me, one hot summer,
I seen a thing that knocked me flat -
Fourteen foot long or more than that,
It was a reg'lar hummer!
Lay right along a sort of bog,
Just like a log!
"The ugly thing was lyin' there
And not a sign o' movin',
Give any man a nasty scare;
Seen nothin' like it anywhere
Since I first started drovin'.
And yet it didn't scare my dog.
Looked like a log!
"I had to cross that bog, yer see,
And bluey I was humpin';
But wonderin' what that thing could be
A-lyin' there in front o' me
I didn't feel like jumpin'.
Yet, though I shivered like a frog,
It seemed a log!
"I takes a leap and lands right on
The back of that there whopper!"
He stopped.  We waited.  Then Big Mac
Remarked: "Well, then, what happened, Jack?"
"Not much," said Jack, and drained his grog.
"It was a log!"
The snake charmer playing the wooden ' been' instrument
And the cobras,
Hooded and hissing
Dancing,
Dancing and swaying to the tunes,
To the tunes melodious,
Oh, captivated and charmed
By the haunting music of the East
Swaying beautifully
And dangerously,
The beastly and brute reptiles of the woods
So much so frightening,
Dreadful and deadly
And venomous
And full of fangs.
The turbaned charmer, clad in a white dhoti and kurta,
Somewhat clumsy and soiled
And with the bamboo baskets
Hanging by the bamboo,
Balanced at endways
Through a rope,
Approaching to show
The spectacle
And the folk gathering,
Singing a song so submissively
And praying to  Naga-Devata,
Ma Manasha and Ma Shitala,
Telling of Bihula and Lakhinder
And when with the show to start,
He touching the basket,
Shaking and half-opening it
And the cobras coming out,
Creeping out,
Standing on,
Hooded and hissing
And he playing with the hand
And the cap of the basket
And playing the been,
Taking it the head of the cobras,
Blackly, brownish and whitish
And the cobras listening to
And swaying
Under the spell of the haunting music
Of the East,
Standing charmed and captivated by,
Under the spell of music.
Hullo, there Baburam – what have you got in there?
Snakes? Aha – and do you think there’s one that youcould spare
You know, I’d love to have one, but let me tell you this–
The ones that bite aren’t right for me – nor the onesthat hiss.
I’d also skip the ones that butt
As well the ones that whistle
Or the ones that slink about
Or show their fangs, or bristle.
As for eating habits, I think it would be nice
To go for ones that only take a meal of milk and rice.
I’m sure you know the kind of snake that want fromwhat I’ve said,
Do let me have one, Baburam, so I could bash itshead.
[Original: 'Baburam Shapure' (Bengali), Translated by: Satyajit Ray (the able son of Sukumar Roy)]
Black berrys charm the snake;
And wait for new Comings, by day.
More the pale hands, with each dawn.
Green thorned vines, fair ankles entwine.
Black eyes, conceal the fruit not ripe picked;
Musky servant amongst dark leaves unseen.
Innocence trips over, one full basket left to cover.
While voices plan new paths through the thorns.
e.d
when you tire of snakes slithering beside your heals
become a medusa wear in your hair hissing snake fashions
beware snakes that bite seriously impair repeat dates
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Blake, talked you of the bright and burning eyes of the tiger
And the Maker making it,
Experimenting with ferocity, brutality and beastiality
And Milton, talking of Satan and his snake,
Oh, the duality of Creation talk you!
The tiger a bloody and beastly brute will remain ever wild, ever so
As it had been,
But their dwindling population a thin of worry for us
And the venom of the viper, what to say about the fangs,
Hair standing on the body, frightening indeed to come across!
People speak a lot about cobra snake
“It is life only at stake” I thought
It harms no one without pretext
When you try to capture him for poisonous test
It has gained popularity
With lots of notoriety
Even person is named cobra for such quality
As it has some similarity
Cobra is known protector
It moves in jungle freely with no fear
It has its own kingdom
It bites to human being seldom
“We are more dangerous than cobra”
Keep hatred intact and wait for time extra
As soon as it is available at opportune time
We strike with full force by giving no time
Snakes are afraid too
But human beings are never true
They speak lies and ask for apology
Take revenge and put life into misery
I still have your book
And you have my clip
Now I know why you kept asking
If I always get what I want
You beat me at my own game
I bet on five but you rolled snake eyes
Thank you for reminding that one shouldn't be cocky
And always expect to get what she wants
But God loves a drunk and so do I
Thanks
Untie the celtic knot
Grasp the sands of time
Feel the power of the
butterfly's wings
The coral snake is
biting
with its venomous bite
A dragonfly flies
upon the cold lake's water
Life is at its peak
Death lurks in the bushes
Look,
Dead snake
In my house
Living with me
And I am
Trying to excape.
I saw you coming gently
with all your slovenliness,
silently crawling
your fragile body
with your icy cold
touch of death,
and suddenly
raising your hood
like a desert storm,
your waving tongue
sprinkled  the deadly venom.
I saw your eyes glittering,
studded like pearls
in your hood,
then your bite brought
great tumult around me,
and pain boundless grew,
shrouding me with
the dark shadows
of the twilight hour,
pushed me to  the
dreaded  depths unknown.
Death came to a tryst
to take me to the threshold,
and show me what lies beyond.
Death stacks life
smiling like an angel,
and being mesmerised
I drowned myself
in complete oblivion.
hey!-even snake gourds
become Buddhas-
don't get caught behind!
Into the snake's eyes I looked deeply within
I saw not hate or evil or any deadly sin
I saw fear and terror from a creature that wanted to survive
And all that it wanted to do was just to stay alive
It curled itself around my arm as though ready to fight
But did it do it out of anger or did it do it out of fright
As the snake has been cursed since the beginning of time
Because of a deed of its relative and its father's past crime
Since that day the snake has been killed and cursed
Evils and sins of the snake we all have been immersed
So once again I looked into that snakes deadly eyes
I still couldn't see sin or evil or even a devilish disguise
So I released that snake on the ground and it slithered away
I wished peace upon it and then for my judging I did pray.
Randy L. McClave
Hitler once brought in a rooster
In parliament his point to pester,
And then one after another
He started pulling its feathers.
After making it featherless
Threw the hapless bird amidst roar
And threw to it food-grains on floor;
It followed him as one might guess
Forgetting all inflicted pain,
Focussing on the dole of grain!
Triumphant, Hitler looked around,
And the point was made all so sound.
In democracy it's like this,
This major point should go no amiss,
Watch, first they plunder people's all
Make helpless— each Peter and Paul.
Then throw to them some succour odd,
Be a saviour almighty God!
This play, this game is on right now,
Making fool of voters somehow!
So let your wisdom be whetted,
Sharpen it if it has blunted,
If snake-infested be the House,
Get a snake-charmer elected.
_________________________________
Reflections |09.04.2019|
Topic: change, democracy, dictator, warning
A circle writhing
Smaller and diminishing
Snake makes bad mistake
Snake stalking a frog
Strike! Frog jumps into a pond
Eagle had a feast.
Handwriting like a snake
You are more flexible
Full of penetrating power
All the fake image
Break a dead branch from a tree
In the Qilian Mountains, sun shines
Don't permit to carve the content deliberately
Refrain being over fastidious in wording
A heavenly steed soaring across the skies, handwriting like a snake
I swim in your nature
Dream of the stars in reincarnation
Diffusa fails to show restraint
For no reason, Nu River roars and breathes
北京时间2017年1月17日21：10至22：20，罗志海 写诗翻译
Beijing time on January 17,2016,21: 10 to 22: 20, by Luo Zhihai, Poetry and Translation
◆ Chinese Text
笔走灵蛇
罗志海  新诗
你柔韧有余
富有穿透力
一切赝品形象
摧枯拉朽
祁连山阳光熠熠
矫情不容刻意雕琢
少来咬文嚼字
天马行空笔走灵蛇
我在你的浑然天成里游弋
梦见星星轮回
蛇舌草锋芒毕露
怒江无端端咆哮喘息
i have taken
lessons from snakes
and learnt wisdom
to morph from
an old wearied woman
to a fine spinster
everybody would turn
their heads as i  beat out a dance
slithering my way to their hearts
without even their knowledge
i have taken lessons in life
from the snakes
the devil reincarnated though
all the fraggled parts of my life
the wrinkled skin of my soul
i follow the snake as it
morphs from old to young
and young to old
and old to young again
living a hundred years
parting the old self
for the new
every now and then
all my sorrows
now you see them in
the shedded skin
along the downtrodden paths
nobody cares to take a look
i never,
you should not too
What it is in the department,
The academia and the academies
And the people academic,
Followed by a dull and routinized affair,
Monotonous, dreary and dry?
Why not to drift far,
Deviate and digress differently
By being attuned to a world
Full of beauty, mystery and horror?
And it is too a reality that
The snakes can often be seen
Creeping into my house,
Staying a brief while
Or a few days more
And then moving out,
Poisonous and non-poisonous.
Metali, a deep brown-coloured non-poisonous snake
Which lives mainly in mud and waters,
Pan-dhora, a brown and striped water snake
May bite, but is non-poisonous
And what to say more about the poisonous ones,
They often visit my house.
Now I dream, is my love Icchadhari Nagin,
Willed, Human-face Taking She-cobra,
A Naga-kanya, a cobra-daughter,
Should I mark the fickleness of the eye lenses and balls
If she is,
Or should I go playing the wooden been instrument
In the forest deep
And the cobras as my audience
Surging to hear my music,
The been music,
The music of The east, of Asia, the Orient
Leaving the whisperings and conspiracies
Of the academia?
Is it the blessing of the Snake-god
Or of Ma Manasa
To see me as a snake charmer?
This snake was eyeing a frog for his lunch
They struck at each other with a crunch
It was a stand off
A solution was far off
For both of them was unable to munch
Little garter snake, asleep in the rue,
Lost in your dreams so sweet.
one often wonders at how you do,
To cypher your thoughts would be quite a feat.
Tiny and toothless and without defense,
From felines on the prowl.
So you'll slither away beneath the fence,
Wary of felines, and canines, and the feathered fowl.
But for now you are content, in your red clay pot,
Dreams of grasshoppers in your tiny head.
Serene and peaceful in your personal cot,
As visions of six leggers run through your head.
What is that?
That is a snake and
That is a mouse
Both are caught in a basket.
The mouse is the food
For the snake
And both would not be
Able to get out.
The snake made a truce
With the mouse
And the mouse made a hole
To get out.
Snake thought to eat the mouse
Soon after it made the hole.
What happened next?
My poem is silent
You to decide my dear
If you are intelligent.
She was being sarcastic when she said that he was a hunk.
But she really thought that he was a punk.
She thought that he was lower than a snake.
And she wanted to drown him in the lake.
She finally told him that he was a sap.
And that he was a lying no-good piece of crap.
She said that when they were humping in bed.
She felt like she was in the valley of the dead.
She wanted to feed him to the pigs.
While she laughed and smoked a cig.
She said that she needed a mop.
So that she could mop him up because he was slop.
This story of the Rainbow Serpent is an Australian aboriginal legend and I have re-told it, with the best of intentions, for an international audience. I may have made some changes to the story  and I hope my re-telling is true to the spirit of the original versions.
the rainbow snake
see it tickles
the frogs
and water fills the rivers and gullies
and waterholes;
and see the rainbow snake
see it brings forth
all life sleeping before
it is the beginning
and the earth is bare and barren
and the Rainbow Serpent
dear Ngalyod, powerful Borlung
the lovely Rainbow Serpent
she moves across the earth
and where she moves
see
how she creates tracks and dry courses
and huge craters;
and see how the Rainbow Serpent
she digs into the earth and emerges crashing into the air
on the other earth side of the world
and see how she throws up mountains and crags
and hills and mounds
and the Uluru and ravines;
and she calls the frogs
who come in heavy and bloated
and she tickles the frogs
and the frogs laugh
and the waters flow and the rains have come
and the dry lands are replete
with billabongs, rivers, creeks and lagoons
and the mighty oceans;
and the Rainbow Serpent is pleased
and she calls forth all
sleeping beings
and they all awake
and the Rainbow Serpent is pleased
and she provides them laws
and she disappears into another waterhole
and you can see her
you can see the Benevolent Rainbow Serpent
as she travels from one waterhole to another
as she emerges from one and she is in the sky
and you can see her
the lovely creative Rainbow Serpent in the sky
and she disappears soon enough
into another huge waterhole
somewhere on our earth
the rainbow snake
see it tickles
the frogs
and water fills the rivers and gullies
and waterholes;
and see the rainbow snake
see it brings forth
all life sleeping before
burning sun rays in hot summer wither heat land
in desert rainless daily sun rays merciless scold sand
scorpion snake bask among gold sand grains grand
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Snakes in the backyards
Makes a lot of problem
Snakes continues the journeys
Preferring human habitat
Dwelling houses they intrudes
Kitchen place they crawls
Fearful sounds of vipers
Fearful sounds of cobras
The scaled ones, hooded ones
Huffy ones and huffs in homes
Where to find a snake catcher
Everyone in fear syndromes
The winter period snakes comes
The summer time snakes runs
The rainy season they enjoys
But poor humans in fear of them
When I asked in polite words
A gentle species the giant snake
Erecting its hood silently told
Where to go and hide we ask
The hills and rocks are inhabited
The paddy fields are reclaimed
The mountains ever you cleared of trees
We poor creatures are trying for life
Save us we are poor snakes
Always attacks when the wits end.
Snake-charmer, play you the wooden 'been' instrument
In the forest deep and dark,
Playing the music of your rhyhtm
And sadhna.
You playing and playing and the music so haunting
That the cobras, grey, blackly and whitish
Start hissing around
After hearing the music of the East,
The music of Asia, I mean India.
But it pains me to see that catch you so tactfully
With the bamboo basket to put into
And making it smell a root
So that the anger can lessen a bit
And earn they the Bombaywallahs, the Bombayan film-makers
Falsely imitating the snake-charmer's music
And giving not anything else to them.
Your risk, none can take to, your playing with the kaal,
The doom
As a bite can be so fatal,
But they collecting your money bundles
And you poorer and poorer,
What you had been in the past!
Our Times
And in all Times,
Getting to the bottom
Of the slippery snake pits,
And denouncing it,
Not an easy thing to do!
Perilous and deathly
Torments, may follow
All those who have
Wanted to.
Cloaks of utter darkness,
Surround the facts,
Discovered,
By those who have wanted
To Star, as the ruling class,
The more delved into
The less known of that
Which conveniently
And purposely,
Is relegated to a silent
Present and a hidden Past,
As elected snakes,
Do all, for themselves
As if living
In a vacuum,
Where nothing great
Or decent,
Ever comes to pass.
A TRUE TALE.
'Can such things be and overcome us like a summer cloud,
without our special wonder, '-SHAKESPEAR.
In a grocery store in Ingersoll our attention was called to a copper-headed
snake wriggling in a glass jar. We noticed a peculiarity about its head, but
soon found out it was a potato bug, which was afraid of being drowned ; and
the only above water being the snake's head and neck, it was fondly clinging
thereto. There being 'no jutty-frieze buttress or coigne of vantage, where it
could make its pendant bed, elsewhere.
Some poets they abroad do roam,
But we find themes are near to home ;
As we do seldom travel far,
This is a song of a glass jar.
Snake of species of the copper,
And on its head there was live hopper,
For we saw that funny sight
In a store, it was last night.
There in water was a snake,
And a bug so wide awake;
He was afraid that he would drown
So he clomb up on the snake's crown.
This snake it is near a foot long,
Which doth suffer this great wrong,
It thinks the bug wants it to throttle
This makes it wriggle in the bottle.
But fondly the kind hearted bug,
It doth its preserver hug,
For the bug when on the water
It is only but a squatter.
And hath taken up homestead
On the top of the snake's head,
And on the waters it doth float
Safe and happy on this boat.
Selfishness and stupidity
tend to be our guides
sarcastic deft acridity
laughing by their side.
Stubbornly ingrained self-meanings
conceived with intestinal blight
garish inscriptions beaming
as we impose audacious rites.
An enigma unto ourselves
predacious, willful as a shark,
persona's forward leaning cleft
snake bite charms that strike the mark.
Mankind's cruel cellular divide
cancers replicating crime
our hearts wretched, open, naked, wide
relentless unforgiving time.
The serpent has mingled with my blood
As she devours me, I become her lover
Half lidded eyes closed with numbness
My body tingles from her touch
She has me paralyzed
She has left me speechless
Her poison runs through my veins
I can feel her all over my body
She has become I
And I she
I can feel myself becoming dead yet alive
Becoming, Soil, water and sky
All things and none
My soon to be widow  lays across my bed
And Weeping Mary, weeps
As I  leave her for another lover
I am afraid to close my eyes
Snake bite
Venom strikes
Into your bloodstream it goes
To kill you slow
Oh so slow
Watch the venom as it flows
Your blood it pulses
Your body convulses
Onto the floor you'll be
Deader than dead
Venom as thick as lead
Anger in the snake's head
A poison quick
The killer kiss
Snake venom is the way to
Death's Slow Bliss
There were number of snake charmers years before
They came in groups of couples with their baskets
We the children ran behind them for a glimpse
of the snake, monkey in captivity, and their performance
Poor were they, loved us the children and smiled
Asked to make interests in the family for asking a show
We obliged and cried to father and mother
Always reluctant to show the snake in open ground
However we managed to get them succumbed on our wishes
Allowed the charmers in perfect mode of strictness
Their special music equipment we all entertained
Its sound resembled with a snake appearance
After some time making us more anxious
They took their cane basket having cobra snake
Telling some welcome wishes and sounds of their whistle
Slowly they opened their snake basket to show us
Making the shoo....sounds of the deadliest creature
In full spirit of vengeance it showed its might
Frightened to see the cobra in the nearest
We ran towards our father and mother for an escape
The charmer slowly caught hold of the tale of the snake
Which opened its head in perfect vigor and form
Making some signal sounds using their instrument
They put hold of the snake in return to the basket
After some times we asked for a play of the little monkey
which showed its different body shows as usual
Together with the different gestures they learnt
From the master through strict discipline and beating
They were ready to jump upwards and downwards
Able to walk by tying their hands in back
A very fortunate and amusing show for little ones
Now snake charmers are rare and they are not allowed
To play with the wild creature in public on conservation rules
Still we remember the snake charmer of earlier period
who were part of the play in those times
Though they came for their sustenance that give by us.
winds rose to the sky
dust carried upwards
further darkened clouds
moving shadows!
lightning hissed
gnawing at 'cosmic tranquility'
thunders rolled-
mightiest of mountains
connecting the planets
in an echo
on the black waters
a thousand hoods
a gleaming hand
held the tail end
trinckets shining
jingled on the hoods!
*thnx to ojaswi for the title
Leave the self alone
The perfumes of your costumes
That still is in the air
The path we treaded together
In the nights damp darkness
The milky way that be
On earth did it appear
On my hand when you flew
Like a butterfly from that balcony
For gotten I have the world
It only exist in your bosom
My love away from my tavern
You have taken me into garden
For a kiss under the star of morning
For the story of my being
Was but story of my love
In the prologue you announced
But brief how it could be
I shall repeat it again and again
Only for this moment of great ecstasy
For while I leave reason and unreason
For the sage to decipher
My tavern is empty for the master is calling
My goblet is full and in wonders he looks
Saki has removed the veil from her face
Her spell she thinks who has stolen from her
Keep the place in tavern O lovers
He shall come back when he is bitten
A charmer to a snake is he who loves
The poison she carries is deadly indeed
The doors of the tavern my love for you
Are open in the night and the evenings we cherish
Love unto love is like dust unto dust
Of lofty peeks and melting glaciers
My imagery is the lips of my love
Drunk am I from the charm of your love
Wine to me is your kiss divine
Alas Saki keep my place
A charmer to a snake am I indeed
16/10/2008
In the grass
a snake is dancing
hide li'l mouse!
Giving in to the writing
all else went to hell
The bills stayed unpaid
one room left to dwell
Giving in to the writing
I rolled the last dice
Two dots facing upward
—and paying the price
(Villanova Pennsylvania: March,2018)
Snake-fire
is here
With wicked
Men and women
And as ill luck
Would have it
I am going
With them.
Towards mirage
See, I am going
As a prisoner
Of my desire
And passion being
Blind and ignorant.
Mr. Rao was sitting in his front lawn
He looked dull and worried
'I haven't mowed for a month'
He said looking at the wild growth
The lawn with its grass blades
Some tall, some short looked to me
Beautiful in its randomness
'There is some odd grace
Even in indiscipline' I remarked
'There is a method in their madness'
I laughed and winked at him
He stared one long minute
At his beloved lawn and said
'Ever heard the idiom'
'….Snake in the grass! It was said
About the lurking dangers inside
Such unruly growth! Thanks
To the indolent masters'
He further cautioned, 'Walk over that ridge
Alongside the compound wall
And reach the verandah. God Knows!
Some serpent might have got alert
With our idiomatic talk,
I mean idiotic talk'
This time he laughed loudly
Starting towards him, I stopped suddenly
And turned back stating, 'I just remembered
I have to go to my office, I left a lot
To be mowed there. For too long
Indolent I have been'
We do not know your method...
As of yet, it is unclear
Like a snake in the grass, you move
Filling us full of crap, my dear! ! ! !
Can feel it, when under the influence...
As the blood pressure truly soars
Heart beat is rapid and irregular
Yet you continue on with more and more;
How many trips to the doctor will it take?
How many tests on our food and drink?
What will it take to make you stop?
If you have a conscience-what do you think?
Call it whatever you want but its criminal
For now we will just call it crack cocaine
And WE WILL get the proof that is needed...
Even if, this all causes a world of pain;
What is it that you are after?
Because you have achieved at making people ill
Were you hired by Mr. West Coast-Boston?
Or are you just out for the thrill of the kill?
By, Theodora Onken
A write about the illegal spiking of ones
Food or drink with drugs that kill...
Premeditated Homicide In The Making
An ongoing problem-A Reality
By, Theodora Onken
February 28,2012
Beside a pond in main,
High and thin sugarcane.
Under green canes,
Snake melon vines
Are their laced skirts.
Bare face and hands,
Thorned by its leaves.
Bare feet and legs,
Entangled by vines,
Still looked for melons.
In a very hot day in even,
Searched for a big melon.
Found objects in a flash,
Ran to the pond to wash,
Then took home to share.
Snake of time
Swallowed us nine.
We are nine
In a house
That has doors nine.
We are all
For public welfare
As we are getting everything
From public exchequer.
O my dear, I am not here
To disappear
I am present like the sun
In either the eastern
Or the western hemisphere.
No darkness is here
The time of snake is
Ended like the time of
Thieves and murders.
I am not disfigured
I am with the scriptures
See me, I am here.
Now he was standing on the border.
He heard his own voice say
this deadly option reconsider
also heard it say
your hunch can betray
so can your sense
pause man before you travel the distance.
No, he wouldn't listen to that voice
having made the choice
not anymore to defer
what deserved the woman that wronged her.
She was giggling and saw no harms
when he picked her up in his arms.
The rock python smelled flesh falling from the sky.
You have to die he whispered you have to die.
The gateman was dozing and no eyes had watched him.
He must now run away from this bad dream!
Plants precious to my mother-in-law were
to me an oxymoron..things which could demand attention.
She left an unwanted house full of
them..  The dogs and cats tore some apart.
Some died of neglect. One was left.. year
after year she endured..in a dark corner with
occasional watering..and the tooth marks
of unwanted attention. She, a sansevieria, is also
known as mother-in-law's tongue or a snakeplant.
The 10th year... one morning...
upsurging from the center of her green swords
was a rod of slender white
bells eighteen inches high..
The sweetest fragrance
poured from them as
they silently rang
in mystical beauty,
enduring spirit.
She taught me that
she had feelings..
and rights
and resurrection power
in God's light.
I realize writing this that my snake plant flowered shortly after the decision to stop mowing a lawn was made when a leg was chopped off a toad by the mower.
*
to Ruth Shriver
Sansevieria can live 6 months in
the trunk of a car and still survive.
it is made of swordlike
long forest green leaves.. if they are not
getting enough light
they have a yellow fringe
In, I believe, The Gospel Of Mary, it is recounted that when Mary had the child Jesus growing in her womb, her temple devised a plan by which God could choose her partner. Each man who wished to be part of this would put a stick on the altar. The stick which flowered would be her husband. Joseph did not join in, thinking himself too old. Several urged him to.  Lo! The stick he put upon the altar was the one which flowered. Thinking of the rod of bells in the snake plant reminded of this story.
A snake came to my water-trough
On a hot, hot day, and I in pyjamas for the heat,
To drink there.
In the deep, strange-scented shade of the great dark carob-tree
I came down the steps with my pitcher
And must wait, must stand and wait, for there he was at the trough before
me.
He reached down from a fissure in the earth-wall in the gloom
And trailed his yellow-brown slackness soft-bellied down, over the edge of
the stone trough
And rested his throat upon the stone bottom,
And where the water had dripped from the tap, in a small clearness,
He sipped with his straight mouth,
Softly drank through his straight gums, into his slack long body,
Silently.
Someone was before me at my water-trough,
And I, like a second comer, waiting.
He lifted his head from his drinking, as cattle do,
And looked at me vaguely, as drinking cattle do,
And flickered his two-forked tongue from his lips, and mused a moment,
And stooped and drank a little more,
Being earth-brown, earth-golden from the burning bowels of the earth
On the day of Sicilian July, with Etna smoking.
The voice of my education said to me
He must be killed,
For in Sicily the black, black snakes are innocent, the gold are venomous.
And voices in me said, If you were a man
You would take a stick and break him now, and finish him off.
But must I confess how I liked him,
How glad I was he had come like a guest in quiet, to drink at my water-trough
And depart peaceful, pacified, and thankless,
Into the burning bowels of this earth?
Was it cowardice, that I dared not kill him? Was it perversity, that I longed to talk to him? Was it humility, to feel so honoured?
I felt so honoured.
And yet those voices:
If you were not afraid, you would kill him!
And truly I was afraid, I was most afraid, But even so, honoured still more
That he should seek my hospitality
From out the dark door of the secret earth.
He drank enough
And lifted his head, dreamily, as one who has drunken,
And flickered his tongue like a forked night on the air, so black,
Seeming to lick his lips,
And looked around like a god, unseeing, into the air,
And slowly turned his head,
And slowly, very slowly, as if thrice adream,
Proceeded to draw his slow length curving round
And climb again the broken bank of my wall-face.
And as he put his head into that dreadful hole,
And as he slowly drew up, snake-easing his shoulders, and entered farther,
A sort of horror, a sort of protest against his withdrawing into that horrid black hole,
Deliberately going into the blackness, and slowly drawing himself after,
Overcame me now his back was turned.
I looked round, I put down my pitcher,
I picked up a clumsy log
And threw it at the water-trough with a clatter.
I think it did not hit him,
But suddenly that part of him that was left behind convulsed in undignified haste.
Writhed like lightning, and was gone
Into the black hole, the earth-lipped fissure in the wall-front,
At which, in the intense still noon, I stared with fascination.
And immediately I regretted it.
I thought how paltry, how vulgar, what a mean act!
I despised myself and the voices of my accursed human education.
And I thought of the albatross
And I wished he would come back, my snake.
For he seemed to me again like a king,
Like a king in exile, uncrowned in the underworld,
Now due to be crowned again.
And so, I missed my chance with one of the lords
Of life.
And I have something to expiate:
A pettiness.
You stole all my smiles away,
There will be no more happiness for me,
Just tears and sadness all day.
You were the snake,
That slithered your way into my world,
Coiled around me,
I felt safe in your hold.
But you tricked and deceived me,
Your plan was to use and to leave me,
But you couldn't just leave it at that,
Before you left,
You were sure to bite poison straight into my back.
He glides so swiftly
Back into the grass-
Gives me the courtesy of road
To let me pass,
That I am half ashamed
To seek a stone
To kill him.
BUT, Snake, you must not come where we abide,
For you would tempt us; we should hear you say:
'Oh, somewhere was a world was cold and spare,
And voiceless; somewhere was a Being was not
Engrossed with substance, with no fervencies
Of love and hatred, and he made me, Snake!
The wise Elohim, they who made the rest
Of Creatures, made them ail-too manifold
Mortised and rampired, jointed, vascular;
And I was put an alien in their world,
All head, all spine, all limb, all loin,
Swift as a bird and single as a fish.'
Above you fruits unglanced at bend and glow,
And, bare and voiceless, you do tempt us, Snake!
I saw a young snake glide
Out of the mottled shade
And hang, limp on a stone:
A thin mouth, and a tongue
Stayed, in the still air.
It turned; it drew away;
Its shadow bent in half;
It quickened and was gone
I felt my slow blood warm.
I longed to be that thing.
The pure, sensuous form.
And I may be, some time.
Hardly a sound in your world,
Only the repetitious "S".
In your coiled strength,
Your sliding motion and your suddenness,
The pure silk of your pink mouth,
The sloughing of a whole skin,
And that sparkling newness
As you stretch, easy in your new length,
Cool and supple as a stream's dance.
I hear no hiss as your tongue's black tips
Like a shivering nerve detect that strange warmth,
Nor hiss of triumph as you swallow whole your prey.
Hardly a sound in your world,
Only the echoing "S"
In  your bold stare belying
The true shyness of a snake
As you watch me from a safe distance.
The "S" contains your whole being
Which makes you more complete than me,
As I have no sound's shape.
Sake of love,
Don't shake off the truth when you meet your lover;
Oh Snake River!
Bake me your cake of love,
Make my heart follow your path,
With the rake of the truth.
Daily meal,
To enjoy your wealth oh Snake River! !
And to know much about the world.
Your world so sweet with the muse of your beauty,
With the fragrance of life and the romance of nature;
Like a new born baby seeing the world for the first time.
Snake
Singing
With songs
For inside earth...
with out voice...
A nice song...!
The Desert-snake was cornered in a hole,
And flushed out ’live, without a single scratch;
A prisoner now with once a kingly role;
To Eagles’ eyes, he’as finally no match.
The victors sigh a heave of great relief;
The vanquished too was tired of hiding;
That people rejoice is the false belief;
The desert wasn’t meant for happy riding.
The Oppressor has been removed for good;
Some dignity, the Aggressors may get;
As people clamor for water and food,
The war seems still far from over as yet.
The Eagles have their Desert-snake in beak!
But wars can find all fighters sometime weak.
Henry was every morning fed
With a full mess of milk and bread.
One day the boy his breakfast took,
And eat it by a purling brook
Which through his mother's orchard ran.
From that time ever when he can
Escape his mother's eye, he there
Takes his food in th'open air.
Finding the child delight to eat
Abroad, and make the grass his seat,
His mother lets him have his way.
With free leave Henry every day
Thither repairs, until she heard
Him talking of a fine grey bird.
This pretty bird, he said, indeed,
Came every day with him to feed,
And it loved him, and loved his milk,
And it was smooth and soft like silk.
His mother thought she'd go and see
What sort of bird this same might be.
So the next morn she follows Harry,
And carefully she sees him carry
Through the long grass his heaped-up mess.
What was her terror and distress,
When she saw the infant take
His bread and milk close to a snake!
Upon the grass he spreads his feast,
And sits down by his frightful guest,
Who had waited for the treat;
And now they both begin to eat.
Fond mother! shriek not, O beware
The least small noise, O have a care-
The least small noise that may be made,
The wily snake will be afraid-
If he hear the lightest sound,
He will inflict th'envenomed wound.
She speaks not, moves not, scarce does breathe,
As she stands the trees beneath;
No sound she utters; and she soon
Sees the child lift up its spoon,
And tap the snake upon the head,
Fearless of harm; and then he said,
As speaking to familiar mate,
'Keep on your own side, do, Grey Pate:'
The snake then to the other side,
As one rebukëd, seems to glide;
And now again advancing nigh,
Again she hears the infant cry,
Tapping the snake, 'Keep further, do;
Mind, Grey Pate, what I say to you.'
The danger's o'er-she sees the boy
(O what a change from fear to joy!)
Rise and bid the snake 'good-bye;'
Says he, 'Our breakfast's done, and I
Will come again to-morrow day:'
Then, lightly tripping, ran away.
The crane spreads its wings, while the snake coils to strike
Both have great agility, and flamboyance when they fight
The crane hops, the snake slithers
They sleep at night, near soft flowing rivers
For days, the crane plays, bopping its head
Swaying it many ways, before standing on one leg
All white and innocently pure,
The snake sees this dance, as an enticing lure
The snake slithers nearer, to have a better view
All this is happening, under a morning mist and dew
But the crane's alert, she knows what's there
Peeking from the bush, under this damp air
The snake gets closer, close enough to strike
The crane blocks with her wing, and postures for a fight
But the snake backs off, smiling at the crane
While the crane postures on one leg, smiling back just the same.
C. Vergara
06.14.2011
The deer is humble, lovely as God made her
I watch her eyes and think of wonder owned
These strange priests enter the cathedral of woods
And seven Marys clean their hands to woo her
Foot lifted, dagger-sharp—her ears
Poised to their points like a leaf's head
But the snake strikes, in a velvet arc
Of murderous speed—assassin beautiful
As mountain water at which a fawn drank
Stand there, forever, while poison works
While I stand counting the arms of your Cross
Thinking that many Christs could hang there, crying.
Far away in the twilight time
Of every people, in every clime,
Dragons and griffins and monsters dire,
Born of water, and air, and fire,
Or nursed, like the Python, in the mud
And ooze of the old Deucalion flood,
Crawl and wriggle and foam with rage,
Through dusk tradition and ballad age.
So from the childhood of Newbury town
And its time of fable the tale comes down
Of a terror which haunted bush and brake,
The Amphisbaena, the Double Snake!
Thou who makest the tale thy mirth,
Consider that strip of Christian earth
On the desolate shore of a sailless sea,
Full of terror and mystery,
Half redeemed from the evil hold
Of the wood so dreary, and dark, and old,
Which drank with its lips of leaves the dew
When Time was young, and the world was new,
And wove its shadows with sun and moon,
Ere the stones of Cheops were squared and hewn.
Think of the sea's dread monotone,
Of the mournful wail from the pine-wood blown,
Of the strange, vast splendors that lit the North,
Of the troubled throes of the quaking earth,
And the dismal tales the Indian told,
Till the settler's heart at his hearth grew cold,
And he shrank from the tawny wizard boasts,
And the hovering shadows seemed full of ghosts,
And above, below, and on every side,
The fear of his creed seemed verified;-
And think, if his lot were now thine own,
To grope with terrors nor named nor known,
How laxer muscle and weaker nerve
And a feebler faith thy need might serve;
And own to thyself the wonder more
That the snake had two heads, and not a score!
Whether he lurked in the Oldtown fen
Or the gray earth-flax of the Devil's Den,
Or swam in the wooded Artichoke,
Or coiled by the Northman's Written Rock,
Nothing on record is left to show;
Only the fact that be lived, we know,
And left the cast of a double head
In the scaly mask which he yearly shed.
For he carried a head where his tail should be,
And the two, of course, could never agree,
But wriggled about with main and might,
Now to the left and now to the right;
Pulling and twisting this way and that,
Neither knew what the other was at.
A snake with two beads, lurking so near!
Judge of the wonder, guess at the fear!
Think what ancient gossips might say,
Shaking their heads in their dreary way,
Between the meetings on Sabbath-day!
How urchins, searching at day's decline
The Common Pasture for sheep or kine,
The terrible double-ganger heard
In leafy rustle or whir of bird!
Think what a zest it gave to the sport,
In berry-time, of the younger sort,
As over pastures blackberry-twined,
Reuben and Dorothy lagged behind,
And closer and closer, for fear of harm,
The maiden clung to her lover's arm;
And how the spark, who was forced to stay,
By his sweetheart's fears, till the break of day,
Thanked the snake for the fond delay.
Far and wide the tale was told,
Like a snowball growing while it rolled.
The nurse hushed with it the baby's cry;
And it served, in the worthy minister's eye,
To paint the primitive serpent by.
Cotton Mather came galloping down
All the way to Newbury town,
With his eyes agog and his ears set wide,
And his marvellous inkhorn at his side;
Stirring the while in the shallow pool
Of his brains for the lore he learned at school,
To garnish the story, with here a streak
Of Latin, and there another of Greek
And the tales he heard and the notes he took,
Behold! are they not in his Wonder-Book?
Stories, like dragons, are hard to kill.
If the snake does not, the tale runs still
In Byfield Meadows, on Pipestave Hill.
And still, whenever husband and wife
Publish the shame of their daily strife,
And, with mad cross-purpose, tug and strain
At either end of the marriage-chain,
The gossips say, with a knowing shake
Of their gray heads, 'Look at the Double Snake
One in body and two in will,
The Amphisbaena is living still!'
Well, mate, you’ve asked about a fellow
You met to-day, in a black-and-yellow
Chain-gang suit, with a peddler’s pack,
Or with some such burden, strapped to his back.
Did you meet him square? No, passed you by?
Well, if you had, and had looked in his eye,
You’d have felt for your irons then and there;
For the light in his eye is a madman’s glare.
Ay, mad, poor fellow! I know him well,
And if you’re not sleepy just yet, I’ll tell
His story,—a strange one as ever you heard
Or read; but I’ll vouch for it, every word.
You just wait a minute, mate: I must see
How that damper’s doing, and make some tea.
You smoke? That’s good; for there’s plenty of weed
In that wallaby skin. Does your horse feed
In the hobbles? Well, he’s got good feed here,
And my own old bush mare won’t interfere.
Done with that meat? Throw it there to the dogs,
And fling on a couple of banksia logs.
And now for the story. That man who goes
Through the bush with the pack and the convict’s clothes
Has been mad for years; but he does no harm,
And our lonely settlers feel no alarm
When they see or meet him. Poor Dave Sloane
Was a settler once, and a friend of my own.
Some eight years back, in the spring of the year,
Dave came from Scotland, and settled here.
A splendid young fellow he was just then,
And one of the bravest and truest men
That I ever met: he was kind as a woman
To all who needed a friend, and no man—
Not even a convict—met with his scorn,
For David Sloane was a gentleman born.
Ay, friend, a gentleman, though it sounds queer:
There’s plenty of blue blood flowing out here,
And some younger sons of your “upper ten”
Can be met with here, first-rate bushmen.
Why, friend, I—Bah! curse that dog! you see
This talking so much has affected me.
Well, Sloane came here with an axe and a gun;
He bought four miles of a sandal-wood run.
This bush at that time was a lonesome place,
So lonesome the sight of a white man’s face
Was a blessing, unless it came at night,
And peered in your hut, with the cunning fright
Of a runaway convict; and even they
Were welcome, for talk’s sake, while they could stay.
Dave lived with me here for a while, and learned
The tricks of the bush,—how the snare was laid
In the wallaby track, how traps were made,
How ’possums and kangaroo rats were killed,
And when that was learned, I helped him to build
From mahogany slabs a good bush hut,
And showed him how sandal-wood logs were cut.
I lived up there with him days and days,
For I loved the lad for his honest ways.
I had only one fault to find: at first
Dave worked too hard; for a lad who was nursed,
As he was, in idleness, it was strange
How he cleared that sandal-wood off his range.
From the morning light till the light expired
He was always working, he never tired;
Till at length I began to think his will
Was too much settled on wealth, and still
When I looked at the lad’s brown face, and eye
Clear open, my heart gave such thought the lie.
But one day—for he read my mind—he laid
His hand on my shoulder: “Don’t be afraid,”
Said he, “that I’m seeking alone for pelf.
I work hard, friend; but ’tis not for myself.”
And he told me then, in his quiet tone,
Of a girl in Scotland, who was his own,—
His wife,—’twas for her: ’twas all he could say,
And his clear eye brimmed as he turned away.
After that he told me the simple tale:
They had married for love, and she was to sail
For Australia when he wrote home and told
The oft-watched-for story of finding gold.
In a year he wrote, and his news was good:
He had bought some cattle and sold his wood.
He said, “Darling, I’ve only a hut,—but come.”
Friend, a husband’s heart is a true wife’s home;
And he knew she’d come. Then he turned his hand
To make neat the house, and prepare the land
For his crops and vines; and he made that place
Put on such a smiling and homelike face,
That when she came, and he showed her round
His sandal-wood and his crops in the ground,
And spoke of the future, they cried for joy,
The husband’s arm clasping his wife and boy.
Well, friend, if a little of heaven’s best bliss
Ever comes from the upper world to this,
It came into that manly bushman’s life,
And circled him round with the arms of his wife.
God bless that bright memory! Even to me,
A rough, lonely man, did she seem to be,
While living, an angel of God’s pure love,
And now I could pray to her face above.
And David he loved her as only a man
With a heart as large as was his heart can.
I wondered how they could have lived apart,
For he was her idol, and she his heart.
Friend, there isn’t much more of the tale to tell:
I was talking of angels awhile since. Well,
Now I’ll change to a devil,—ay, to a devil!
You needn’t start: if a spirit of evil
Ever came to this world its hate to slake
One mankind, it came as a Dukite Snake.
Like? Like the pictures you’ve seen of Sin,
A long red snake,—as if what was within
Was fire that gleamed through his glistening skin.
And his eyes!—if you could go down to hell
And come back to your fellows here and tell
What the fire was like, you could find no thing,
Here below on the earth, or up in the sky,
To compare it to but a Dukite’s eye!
Now, mark you, these Dukites don’t go alone:
There’s another near when you see but one;
And beware you of killing that one you see
Without finding the other; for you may be
More than twenty miles from the spot that night,
When camped, but you’re tracked by the lone Dukite,
That will follow your trail like Death or Fate,
And kill you as sure as you killed its mate!
Well, poor Dave Sloane had his young wife here
Three months,—’twas just this time of the year.
He had teamed some sandal-wood to the Vasse,
And was homeward bound, when he saw in the grass
A long red snake: he had never been told
Of the Dukite’s ways,—he jumped to the road,
And smashed its flat head with the bullock-goad!
He was proud of the red skin, so he tied
Its tail to the cart, and the snake’s blood dyed
The bush on the path he followed that night.
He was early home, and the dead Dukite
Was flung at the door to be skinned next day.
At sunrise next morning he started away
To hunt up his cattle. A three hours’ ride
Brought him back: he gazed on his home with pride
And joy in his heart; he jumped from his horse
And entered—to look on his young wife’s corse,
And his dead child clutching his mother’s clothes
As in fright; and there, as he gazed, arose
From her breast, where ’twas resting, the gleaming head
Of the terrible Dukite, as if it said,
“I’ve had vengeance, my foe: you took all I had.”
And so had the snake—David Sloane was mad!
I rode to his hut just by chance that night,
And there on the threshold the clear moonlight
Showed the two snakes dead. I pushed in the door
With an awful feeling of coming woe:
The dead was stretched on the moonlit floor,
The man held the hand of his wife,—his pride,
His poor life’s treasure,—and crouched by her side.
O God! I sank with the weight of the blow.
I touched and called him: he heeded me not,
So I dug her grave in a quiet spot,
And lifted them both,—her boy on her breast,—
And laid them down in the shade to rest.
Then I tried to take my poor friend away,
But he cried so woefully, “Let me stay
Till she comes again!” that I had no heart
To try to persuade him then to part
From all that was left to him here,—her grave;
So I stayed by his side that night, and, save
One heart-cutting cry, he uttered no sound,—
O God! that wail—like the wail of a hound!
’Tis six long years since I heard that cry,
But ’twill ring in my ears till the day I die.
Since that fearful night no one has heard
Poor David Sloane utter sound or word.
You have seen to-day how he always goes:
He’s been given that suit of convict’s clothes
By some prison officer. On his back
You noticed a load like a peddler’s pack?
Well, that’s what he lives for: when reason went,
Still memory lived, for the days are spent
In searching for Dukites; and year by year
That bundle of skins is growing. ’Tis clear
That the Lord out of evil some good still takes;
For he’s clearing this bush of the Dukite snakes.
The Eagle and the Snake!
Fighting,
The Eagle winning the Game by,
Eating the Snake.
Poison at the mouth and at the end of
A snake:
Other ways on and out of a canyon that our
Teachers made us pretend to be
Real:
We will start off slow tomorrow:
Some birds will build their nests underneath
Their arrow planes—
Some bicycles will be stolen, and some lions will
Yawn when the housewives
Return home before their children in the busy boughten
Estuaries they become estranged in:
Outback of which the canoes will float just
As coffins:
And into the flickering dance of candles
Into which their children will come home estranged in,
Hapless and dancing:
So far from the groves of the poorer and working class
Children:
Where my muse lives—lighted up like a roman
Candle dancing beneath the catholic church
Until she is a single blue window too far away to see—
And my words have drifted away—she never has to
Worry about me—
When she awakens—what will she remember—
How will she dress herself—and when she hears the airplanes,
What will she hear, until she finally
Hears my wife returning home to me—and then, it wonders,
How will she ever go about returning home
To him.
It was green, it was shiny, it was long.
What was it? Something was wrong.
Laying still in the sun, it gently hissed
From its yellow head came a fine mist.
Poisonous spit? Venomous tears?
This green demon giver of fears,
But no! I won't give into this dread,
A true warrior will make sure it is dead!
With heroic courage I grabbed it's tail
this deadly dangerous deed could not fail
SMASH SMASH then I froze!
It wasn't a snake it was my garden hose.
The first snake,
Hoar, boar, soar, roar;
115 metres long to satisfy your muse;
But running to and fro is all that you know,
Because you failed to identify your own fault!
Book
started tale
beginning life story
described
inimical discrimination
between the man-woman
though
tale told
fruits was tool!
Hole
fruits holder
in puzzling path!
between
two legs
lives a snake!
between
two legs
a puzzling hole!
life
not deviated
snake in hole!
Hole
carrier ground
can tame snake
safe
holed snake;
don't awake flirty
hole
if not;
biting violates society
let
snake live
in its hole
-July 02,2019 Chattogram
'Twas just a dog, I tell myself.
An animal like any other-
one gets a new one off the shelf,
forgets the old one and her mother.
The wound is deep, the pain severe.
The knife went quickly to my heart,
and twisted there...
Oh, did it smart!
I truly love you, little Tilly!
I miss your eyes, your smell, your touch.
Perhaps it's childish, dumb or silly,
I did not know it hurt so much.
'Twas something special that we had.
How foolish that I tought it'd never end.
And though this shock could surely send one mad,
I'll have to live without my dearest friend!
And if there is a God who let this happen
I'd find him quite deranged and very cruel:
I couldn't help, he could have sent a weapon,
but God, I challenge you -just you and me- a duel.
'Cause God where were you in her darkest hour?
Did you just watch, and did you have to blink?
I thought you loved the smallest little flower
then why not me and Tilly - do we stink?
An afterlife may just exist,
it seems that many do believe.
I'll punch the gates in with my fist
and find my Tilly, end our grief.
So farewell now to you and Perle.
we'll meet again and we shall smile!
Don't ask me when, my little girl,
just wait awhile just wait awhile.
I know you'll do alright up there,
your eyes alone will see to that;
the rest of you, your fuzzy hair,
a perfect ten, a perfect pet!
The company is good, you hear:
There's Max and Benson, Fritz and Willy.
Your playmates always found you dear,
so have a good time, little Tilly.
'Twas just a dog, so people say.
An animal, perhaps quite clever.
But you and I know that you'll stay
safe in my heart - with me forever.
In a hot sunny day at a market place
He bends and shakes his weak leg
While blowing the horny pipe.
Then the snake aims at his knee
And it transforms into a dance for the onlookers.
He never seen an egg since his childhood
But he hides an egg everyday for his bread-winner.
Though it's venomous they live together in harmony
And their living seems to be an exemplary for those who grin angrily at each other for nothing.
Tick, tick, tick, echoed the miner's pick
Unleashing the captive from the depths below
The guardian of the treasure's soul
Deep within the Long Range Mine
Two spirits struggled inside one mind
Greed's effervescence filled the cave
Twice absorbed into its slave
Lick, lick, lick, flame on tin candlestick
‘Ole Jim Crow who knew no match
Blindsided by foe, at Owen's; dispatched
Thirty five years from that foul fate
It Turned Albrother inside its gate
Tick, tick, tick, as the clock does chime
Three and fifty from former date
Enraptured hell's picolinate
Uninhibited behind closed walls
They could only hear one outside fall
Click, click, click, taps its toes in time
And to this day they say it's seen
Roaming the hills and hollow between
Lantern aglow and with its pick
Looking for soul or mind to inflict
Forget it not to latch ones hatch
Keep head attached, avoid being snatched
< br>
death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death
the night fell too soon
and the way I am, I am weak
the way you are; I think you're weak
but you don't show it
you only talk with your body
like a wild animal trying to use words
and my hands are clumsy
and the words I pick are steel
and i begin to dote you
with every fire,
till you cannot hear your own voice in your head
shaking at my persistence
fearful of my feelings
you become water
and find a way to (flow
)  cause you know water unsharpens steel
but my words are now in your belly
recoiled like the longest snake
In the name of love, the lord of our hearts,
Let me to say you a story, it never hurts
Of the galaxy and the solar way,
There was a planet that shone in day
Its name was "Mars", great and powerful
It was a little hard, but prideful
There, inside it, with the red stones those just beat
There was a Strange and powerful "Snake" that doesn't hit
They live with each other day and nights,
But they didn't know that they are each other knights
Here the story comes:
A night, when the sky was calm and stars were down,
When the mars was thinking, blinking, at the dawn,
He saw a strange, beauty and unbelievable star,
That was shining like a diamond exactly in the bar,
That star was colorful_ and simple _ though
The mars loved it, liked it although
Mars just looked at that strange nature,
It was strange for him, such a unique creature
Such a UN forgetful vision,
But it was so painful for him, such a scission
Because that star shakes his heart and his lovely feelings,
His soul was thirsty for feeding
Then, a Love contract between them signed,
They will stay with each other to the day of die
They were honest in their love, none of them tinker,
Because they believe who does it is a Stinker,
Of a powerful expression in our life,
They believe and so we do, that love will keep us alive.
A snake caught a fish
Then it took the fish ashore
To eat the pond's fish!
The snake crept slowly
Through the bush
Until she came upon
A hairy tush
It was a rabbit
Eating his food
But the snake
Was in a foul mood.
She sniffed, tasted
And coiled herself to strike
But the rabbit had rehearsed
How to handle this fight
The snake opened her mouth
But the rabbit was gone
Ran like there was no tomorrow
This confrontation was done.
C. Vergara
04.20.2012
The snake charmer of India
Playing the wooden been instrument
And the cobras swaying, dancing.
WHITHER dost thou hide from the magic of my flute-call?
In what moonlight-tangled meshes of perfume,
Where the clustering keovas guard the squirrel's slumber,
Where the deep woods glimmer with the jasmine's bloom?
I'll feed thee, O beloved, on milk and wild red honey,
I'll bear thee in a basket of rushes, green and white,
To a palace-bower where golden-vested maidens
Thread with mellow laughter the petals of delight.
Whither dost thou loiter, by what murmuring hollows,
Where oleanders scatter their ambrosial fire?
Come, thou subtle bride of my mellifluous wooing,
Come, thou silver-breasted moonbeam of de- sire!
The snake gourd blossoms.
My throat blocked with phlegm,
I am already a Buddha.
It slithers along the ground,
Forked tongue slips side to side,
Some say its Satan,
As it slithers without a sound,
Slipping between stone,
Sliding over leaves,
Sensing its prey,
It is all alone,
Now you see it,
Now you do not,
Stand still, don't move,
Alas you be bit,
So hard to see,
The colors of leaves,
Stand still, stand still,
A statue you must be,
The heart races,
The glands sweat,
You must not move,
A mere two paces,
You see the head,
Sliding over your boot,
A body so long,
And seeking to be fed,
To stand so still,
How long it seems,
No one knows,
The nausea you feel,
It slithers away,
Your muscles melt,
It's over you say,
What a day, what a day!
Oh, what an unbearably beautiful night, spreading warmth and heat!
My mind is excited (the mind with which I play)
As if a dazzling snake...
Golden is whose colour, the cruel emotion of death is whose eyes.
(How did this dream come true in our barren creation?)
I feel the unbearable happiness of freedom
In my being, in my consciousness; the uncontainable rhythm of life
In a serpentine motion, floating in the river of night’s darkness
Frantic, cyclonic, unbarred.
Like a lunatic, I adore this blood-bath darkness of the night
The way I love the mind, like tar the colour of whose body, a prostitute
In the forest of dreams, roams a dazzling golden snake
Surrounding it the golden silence, unbearable wonder and heat
Darkness and darkness.
I adore, like the night, fascinating, a snake, and its surprised pride,
Like tar the colour of whose body, a prostitute
Like a melting heart, this togetherness of death and beauty.
THE SNAKE
At the right
UNDER SHELF...silence   THERE IN  ABOX
ready TO BITE
..................................... ...............                             ................................................. ........
ME AND SHE WENT TO THERE
without key ...
BUT FOR ME ALWAYS DARE
NEVER BEEN HYPOCRITE
every thing was clear,
every scene was bright
..one bird and a hen...............patients families,
another couple of snakes but smal were  there in the sight..
the small bird was smart, watching there from apart
for a call the other girl did she go
for a one as i guess was snake but little tall
on the desk 254 I did write, no drohan was at all
an error..then a line very light i drew
he was the one whom forced them to put a sign
but for me I refused as I used to with no fight
............................................. ................................................. ...........................
WITH NO SOUND MY SCREEM..... HELP AND HELP
NO ONE HEARED AS IT SEEMS
KNOCKING WINDOWS... KNOCKING DOOR
WHILE THE SMALL FLOATING THERE ON THE FLOOR
NO ONE HELPED... NO ONE DARRRRRRRRRRRRE
THE BIG ONE STAYED  STILLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
SLOWLY  MOVING WANT TO KILLLLLLLLLL
HER STOMACH WANT TO FILLLLLLLLLLL
THEN THE HEN WAS SWALLOWED
my friend was the hen...............my friend was the bell.............
................................................. ......
ONE OF THE BIG CAME
HE WAS WATCHING KILLING GAME
the small one with no tail
while the remained colored pale
EVERY THING TURNED TO HELL
WITH MY SHOES I CRUSHED
MANAGER FACE WAS FLUSHED
The cute bird was smart, watching there from a part
NOW THE BIG READY TO BITE
BUT MY BEACH SHE CAN'T REACH
CAN'T REACH  THE MIND HIGHT
as  for me always given anti dot
that was   my dream yesterday on a flight
my dreams warning me, always right, always hot
NOW I'M READY FOR THE SHOT
not for me..but for  her that  WHITE... colored black is her  DOT
DROHAN254....30/01/07
31/05/09
a dream about a true story..i was the small bird..my friend was the hen...the snakes were the one who made a trap for her, she was a victim, stapped by many as she dared to say no......the same snakes tried many times to kill me but always my dreams warned me and made me ready for any shot................the dream is described exactly as it was.........................................still i have that pain my friend.....
They called you Diablo -
Dank, dark and hissing -
Sherlock asked 'Watson'
What it was, that you were missing?
April 30, it came and it passed -
Like a Thunderstorm in the Sun -
Lightening strikes near the Rainbow -
In Wonderland, Oz had begun!
Tightly wrapped up, you were -
In a camoflouged lizard-skin purse -
But alas, the spiders, they caught you -
While you, the Warlock of the South, wrote your verse!
Do believe, Emily knows why they call you, Diablo -
For Wicked and Evil, you'd spend your days -
But Emily, upon being released from the hospital -
Was apprised, of your Satanic ways -
It was Sherlock and his 'Watson' -
Who split, your world, open wide -
They identified, your nasty persona -
While Emily, healed inside -
What is it that you are missing?
Why it's forgiveness, compassion and love -
Forever, are you just a doomed snake?
With nary a hint, of our God above?
'Keep Your Windows Locked'
And Your 'Alarms On'...It is getting
Close to Halloween!
The snake and the apple is a sorry tale to tell,
Adam was wandering in the Garden of Eden,
Feeling bored, for he had been created,
A day or so before, and he wanted a lover,
So when God created Eve,
He had someone to talk to and felt happy.
Eve was different to Adam,
And Eve had many sins,
But she felt God must have created her,
For a reason, even though she was second born,
And when she saw the apple tree,
She felt a big smile pull at her face.
But it wasn't just any old apple tree:
It was God's apple tree,
Eve did not speak very much to God,
Because she had Adam,
But she wanted a treat,
And this apple tree looked divine,
But there was a catch.
A snake was coiled around the base,
And the trunk of the tree,
Eve was a little scared,
But felt God must have put the tree and the snake,
There for a reason,
So she took a step towards the tree and the snake.
'What is your wish? Your desire? ' the snake hissed,
'I want a delicious apple' said Eve,
The snake looked pleased,
'This is the tree where all your desires can be granted'
The snake said in a low hiss,
'Take an apple and your dreams will come true'
So Eve plucked an apple from the tree,
And bit into the succulent fruit.
Suddenly the garden turned dark and storm clouds burst,
Overhead. 'What have you done? ' Eve asked the snake,
'I gave you your desires' hissed the snake,
And so, the Garden of Eden was no more,
Evil had now been brought into a world of stone,
Eve had let all the evils into the world,
And she would never be forgotten for all her sins.
There were floods, storms, volcanoes erupted,
People were attacked and murdered,
Priests burnt in hell and children were struck,
Disease and illness coursed across the land,
Swords were drawn and thieves stole great riches,
Lies and destruction overtook the world,
A world God had called paradise,
Stolen by a snake called the devil.
The wooden been music
The snake charmer playing
And the melodies breaking,
Haunting
Want I,
Want I to hear
And the snakes dancing,
Swaying to the tune of
The been,
Pumping and puffing
From the mouth
And rotating and rounding
The instrument
And the cobras swaying
Want I,
Want I to hear.
The turbanned and towelled snake charmer
Clad in  dhoti and kurta
playing the music,
The music of the East,
Of Asia
And the dangerous, deadly cobras
Hissing and dancing,
Swaying to the tune of
The wooden been instrument
Dancing joyously
In sheer delight
And the snake charmer
Taking the name of the Snake God
And Ma Manansa,
Playing the been,
Pumping and puffing
To break the tune,
A bag pipe like.
Tiny little snake
Not fully awake it crawls
Oh my! Spring is here!
Μικρό φιδάκι
αγουροξυπνημένο
Ω! Η άνοιξη!
The snake has lost his luster,
As his venom now I see,
Though his movements remain graceful
They intrigue even me
I sit still beside him waiting,
For what I am unsure,
I could once again be bitten,
But he's left me wanting more.
For now though he is resting,
And i watch with hoe in hand;
His strike I know, is sudden
But I too could take a stand...
Dear serpent, rest your eyes
Don't mind this battered hoe
Know for you, I've been so loyal;
With peaceful sleep I pray you go.
Green Snake, when I hung you round my neck
and stroked your cold, pulsing throat
as you hissed to me, glinting
arrowy gold scales, and I felt
the weight of you on my shoulders,
and the whispering silver of your dryness
sounded close at my ears --
Green Snake--I swore to my companions that certainly
you were harmless! But truly
I had no certainty, and no hope, only desiring
to hold you, for that joy,
which left
a long wake of pleasure, as the leaves moved
and you faded into the pattern
of grass and shadows, and I returned
smiling and haunted, to a dark morning.
Snake River
we twist and turn
to its slithers
Snake River
Hells Canyon looms
to the heavens
Snake River
this hell is cool,
clean and a wondrous treat
The Snake River marks the base of a seemingly bottomless gorge called Hells Canyon, a 7,000-foot deep abyss that is one of nature's grandest achievements. Whether you sign on for three days or five, a rafting trip offers plenty of fun on full-bodied, roller-coaster-style rapids. The Snake's warm, clear water is excellent for swimming and yields pristine sandy beaches you can really dig your toes into. The three-day trip will take you through the upper portion of the canyon and over the two largest rapids. Spend a full five days on the river and the secluded beauty of Hells Canyon will remain eternally etched in your memory.
SNAKE
Creepy, clammy
Uncoiling, twisting, slithering
Venom in fangs to snap
Reptile
FISH
Finny, scaly
Streamlined to fare
In waters deep n' dreary
Aquatic
For more than seven years
We are habituated
To accept the traitors as
As patriot
To know the made statments
As truth
Once upon a future
We would forget
What actually the truth is
Who actually the patriots are
A day would come
When the history would search for
A shoulder
To place It's head
And weep finally
These lips of ours are blue
Not for beautification
Rather we kissed a snake knowingly that
She could bite a nation forever
She could erase our names
From the blackboard of human history
A little girl and a big ugly man
Went down the road. The girl was crying
And asking to go home, but when she ran
He hit her on the head and sent her flying,
And called her a young imp, and said he'd break
Her neck unless she went with him, and then
He smacked her on the cheek.—I was a snake
At that time crawling through a robber's den,
And diamonds were sticking to my tongue—
(That's the best dodge), but when I saw the way
He beat the little girl I up and flung
A stone at him. My aim was bad that day
Because I hit the girl ... and she did sing!
But he jumped round and cursed like anything.
Chinese New Year's Eve...
staring at the mirror
long before
tenth New Year
Chinese fried dough
... and black coffee
A writer
a poet
a scholar
a friend
Whose shoes are
left empty,
no pen in your hand.
Your words have been written
from the love in your heart,
fill the pages
of history
the truth they impart.
Early morning dew
over fields of Dewachen
a blanket of deliverance
from the hell you have
lived in.
Let your songs be a guide
for those in the dark
The Water Snake Year
brings the new start
that your last words
in this life
have left in our hearts.
October 7th 2012
Come back home soldier
Throw your gun away,
Your child is waiting for you
Bring her some toys to play.
Throw the medals, throw the uniform
Head back to your home land,
Your wife is struggling without you
Give her a helping hand.
Killing innocent people is not war
It is manslaughter and murder,
Your mother is worried about you
Don’t make her last days harder.
This war has no moral or ethics
Being fought for greed and money
Your pet dog is missing you
Give it your love and company.
Crops in your field have grown taller
No one is there to harvest them
Your friends are short of a player
Come home, come back to them.
CR VGA
6/7/06 Rdnr
If I should die, think only this of me:
That there's some corner of a foreign field
That is for ever England. There shall be
In that rich earth a richer dust concealed;
A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware,
Gave, once, her flowers to love, her ways to roam,
A body of England's, breathing English air,
Washed by the rivers, blest by suns of home.
And think, this heart, all evil shed away,
A pulse in the eternal mind, no less
Gives somewhere back the thoughts by England given;
Her sights and sounds; dreams happy as her day;
And laughter, learnt of friends; and gentleness,
In hearts at peace, under an English heaven.
There is a flag on the door, and joy left on the floor,
A woman sobs all day long crying to the tune of an old song
A voice cries “Where is he, Where is he? ”
This voice haunts the woman and emphasizes all her wants
There is letter in the mail that tells the tail
She opens the letter asking….
“where is he, where is he.”
There is a baby cold and lonely, lonely to come
With tears that are not formed yet, nor even a thought
In a cradle to the side longing for the second face……
The letter answered the woman………..
“Your husband died a glorious death, and lived a humble life,
And yet now we grieve to see that this man is dead”
How will the child be fed?
In his heart he holds courage,
In his hands he holds our lives.
A Brave Soldier he may be, but only at the the front lines.
He is weaken by all the death,
He is haulted by there souls.
For he knows in this battle, hatred rules one's goal.
He does not fight for hatred,
He fights for there lives instead.
Cause he knows hatred has no value, when so many are dead.
As he lays in death, knowing it will come,
He glances at the sky and makes peace with all he's done.
For on the battlefield, life is as precious as gold.
And one must always choose should it be friend or foe?
He closes his eyes and hopes in his death no more victums will fall.
But, in his heart he knows his country one day will call.
For A Brave Soldier to take the front line and give there his life as he,
He just hopes all are content knowing A Brave Soldier he will always be.
I can see a soldier's mother
Knitting quietly in the lamplight,
Her precious thoughts are for another
Who has been sent away to fight.
She is remembering a tousled haired boy
Running through the house to play.
She is remembering the heartfelt joy
Of washing and nurturing him each day.
She gloried in his every little achievement
For he was her flesh and blood.
It was only temporary bereavement
When he would come in covered with mud.
Sometimes he rode a stick horse
All over a vast front yard range.
He was rounding up cattle of course
Every detail he took care to arrange.
Somtimes he rode till it was night
Searching this range for his cattle.
He was never far from his mother's sight
For she loved watching him ride high in the saddle.
These were the magnificent glory years
Of a tousled haired boy and his mother.
As she knitted she saw through her tears
A mighty little cowboy unlike any other.
Now he has gone down to the battle
To fight for his country and his home.
But he has not forgotten the front yard cattle
And the mighty range he used to roam.
With the bursting of every bomb and shell
He remembers those who loved him so.
He remembers his mother's supper yell
And her precious face that would always glow.
She was a broken hearted mother
When this cowboy soldier never made it home.
She thought her heart would smother
As she knelt in prayer on the range he used to roam.
There wasn't any fine oration
There wasn't any beautiful song.
This boy had met his obligation
And he stood above the throng.
Today I believe this cowboy is exploring
The range in his new home.
I believe our precious Lord is adoring
A cowboy who has a brand new range to roam.
ADIEU, O soldier!
You of the rude campaigning, (which we shared,)
The rapid march, the life of the camp,
The hot contention of opposing fronts- the long manoeuver,
Red battles with their slaughter,- the stimulus- the strong, terrific
game,
Spell of all brave and manly hearts- the trains of Time through you,
and like of you, all fill'd,
With war, and war's expression.
Adieu, dear comrade!
Your mission is fulfill'd- but I, more warlike,
Myself, and this contentious soul of mine,                         10
Still on our own campaigning bound,
Through untried roads, with ambushes, opponents lined,
Through many a sharp defeat and many a crisis- often baffled,
Here marching, ever marching on, a war fight out- aye here,
To fiercer, weightier battles give expression.
A soldier was ordered into battle to face the foe,
His mind  devoid of sensation - his body numb,
And his rifle fixed with a bayonet in front of him,
Charged the rampart hoping the conflict is won.
His fate is dependent upon the success of the mission,
The mark of death had been cast upon his head,
Severely wounded by an unrelenting hostility
On the battlefield where his body profusely bled
No more transitory orders - no more fighting,
No longer can be heard the eerie sound of artillery,
Only a mumbling of words - crying out in pain,
Hallucinating of love ones vague and dreary.
Shortly he will succumb from his ghastly wounds
In a hostile and foreign land across the vast sea.
Though he is dead - his spirit will live on forever,
His body to be buried in his hometown's cemetery.
The sound of TAPS on a bugle is heard  nearby,
Symbolic of death for his country with the highest laud.
The Chaplain says a final prayer- many tears are shed
As the soldier's body is laid to rest beneath the sod.
An important question is still to be answered,
' Why was this soldier chosen to die on foreign soil? '
As I gasp for breath,
and realize,
I've been hit,
It's my time to die.
I crawl and heave,
and try to run,
In the passing rays,
of the setting sun.
My arm is wounded,
my leg is broken,
blood is everywhere,
my clothes are soaken.
I try to stand,
but start to fall,
I hear my leaders,
retreating call.
The gun fires stop,
as quickly as they came,
I just want it to end,
the burning pain.
My men, my friends,
I start to cry,
They left me here,
alone to die.
I wander home,
where my song is sung,
I know they'll greive,
for I died to young.
But I'll be here,
For in heaven lays,
the rising sun,
and the new sun rays.
The day when I met you
Your attitude impressed me in my mind and heart
You are known to everyone as a great yesterday
soldier for our country.
You were distinguished soldier, an officer,
a man among men.
You are the most valuable gift for our country
Your contribution to the World War II is unforgettable.
Your Knowledge on military is a precious gift for
our young soldiers.
You loved our country and you did the best for her.
Today, you are away from us, living by yourself
Your marched forward legs are stands still today.
You be the best what ever you are and where ever you are.
But the love you have shown on us will
cherish in our heart forever.
As bible says LOVE is patient and kind
and let that faith surround you.
You are a great soldier for the all time
and yet to be seen
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright ©2004 Ravi Sathasivam
A pauper takes out a notepad from his satchel
And scribble something with a pencil.
Where is the bitter pill that neutralizes the hunger?
I have never been to a school and don't know the capital letters,
Commas, Fullstops, Semicolons and Question marks in this misery life.
Even I cannot erase my sins as it's against the law it seems.
I humbly request a death with dignity
If someone hears patiently?
* [ And how does this happen to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me.]
I lived my days apart,
Dreaming fair songs for God;
By the glory in my heart
Covered and crowned and shod.
Now God is in the strife,
And I must seek Him there,
Where death outnumbers life,
And fury smites the air.
I walk the secret way
With anger in my brain.
O music through my clay,
When will you sound again?
To whom was read "If" aloud
Geared up like in childhood plays
Computer games with deadly assassins
Whom the mother had tenderly raised
Freedom to whom a cherished possession
Waiting family and children's kiss
Hell bound knows his Miss
Empire is won who counts the men
Lost in flag spots reddened with blood
Makeshift homes that shall care the wound
Cold wind hot and glazing sun
Hit the stones he misses the chance
Knows he killed a dozen in cross
High tech weapon is on the way
Track a mine or watch the enemy
Neither winner nor looser
He pulls out the picture of his little daughter
Home is home what ever says the monger
Islamabad
15/2/2010
Soldier in your chair of anger
all alone with your deepest pain.
For the way that people now look at you
over and over and over again.
You fought a war that was not your own
on foreign land so far away.
Then came home to loved ones family and friends
in a much, much different way.
Your legs removed your arms now gone
we welcomed you back with flags and patriotic songs.
But now you sit forgotten and alone
while away the bank has taken your home.
So why not sit in the anger you feel?
it is all of what you see to be real.
You fought to protect a world unknown
away from all that you called your home sweet home!
What did I do, sonny, in the Great World War?
Well, I learned to peel potatoes and to scrub the barrack floor.
I learned to push a barrow and I learned to swing a pick,
I learned to turn my toes out, and to make my eyeballs click.
I learned the road to Folkestone, and I watched the English shore,
Go down behind the skyline, as I thought, for evermore.
And the Blighty boats went by us and the harbour hove in sight,
And they landed us and sorted us and marched us "by the right".
"Quick march!" across the cobbles, by the kids who rang along
Singing "Appoo?" "Spearmant" "Shokolah?" through dingy old Boulogne;
By the widows and the nurses and the niggers and Chinese,
And the gangs of smiling Fritzes, as saucy as you please.
I learned to ride as soldiers ride from Etaps to the Line,
For days and nights in cattle trucks, packed in like droves of swine.
I learned to curl and kip it on a foot of muddy floor,
And to envy cows and horses that have beds of beaucoup straw.
I learned to wash in shell holes and to shave myself in tea,
While the fragments of a mirror did a balance on my knee.
I learned to dodge the whizz-bangs and the flying lumps of lead,
And to keep a foot of earth between the sniper and my head.
I learned to keep my haversack well filled with buckshee food,
To take the Army issue and to pinch what else I could.
I learned to cook Maconochie with candle-ends and string,
With "four-by-two" and sardine-oil and any God-dam thing.
I learned to use my bayonet according as you please
For a breadknife or a chopper or a prong for toasting cheese.
I learned "a first field dressing" to serve my mate and me
As a dish-rag and a face-rag and a strainer for our tea.
I learned to gather souvenirs that home I hoped to send,
And hump them round for months and months and dump them in the end.
I learned to hunt for vermin in the lining of my shirt,
To crack them with my finger-nail and feel the beggars spirt;
I learned to catch and crack them by the dozen and the score
And to hunt my shirt tomorrow and to find as many more.
I learned to sleep by snatches on the firestep of a trench,
And to eat my breakfast mixed with mud and Fritz's heavy stench.
I learned to pray for Blighty ones and lie and squirm with fear,
When Jerry started strafing and the Blighty ones were near.
I learned to write home cheerful with my heart a lump of lead
With the thought of you and mother, when she heard that I was dead.
And the only thing like pleasure over there I ever knew,
Was to hear my pal come shouting, "There's a parcel, mate, for you."
So much for what I did do - now for what I have not done:
Well, I never kissed a French girl and I never killed a Hun,
I never missed an issue of tobacco, pay, or rum,
I never made a friend and yet I never lacked a chum.
I never borrowed money, and I never lent - but once
(I can learn some sorts of lessons though I may be borne a dunce).
I never used to grumble after breakfast in the Line
That the eggs were cooked too lightly or the bacon cut too fine.
I never told a sergeant just exactly what I thought,
I never did a pack-drill, for I never quite got caught.
I never punched a Red-Cap's nose (be prudent like your Dad),
But I'd like as many sovereigns as the times I've wished I had.
I never stopped a whizz-bang, though I've stopped a lot of mud,
But the one that Fritz sent over with my name on was a dud.
I never played the hero or walked about on top,
I kept inside my funk hole when the shells began to drop.
Well, Tommy Jones's father must be made of different stuff:
I never asked for trouble - the issue was enough.
So I learned to live and lump it in the lovely land of war,
Where the face of nature seems a monstrous septic sore,
Where the bowels of earth of earth hang open, like the guts of something slain,
And the rot and wreck of everything are churned and churned again;
Where all is done in darkness and where all is still in day,
Where living men are buried and the dead unburied lay;
Where men inhabit holes like rats, and only rats live there;
Where cottage stood and castle once in days before La Guerre;
Where endless files of soldiers thread the everlasting way,
By endless miles of duckboards, through endless walls of clay;
Where life is one hard labour, and a soldiers gets his rest
When they leave him in the daisies with a puncture in his chest;
Where still the lark in summer pours her warble from the skies,
And underneath, unheeding, lie the blank upstaring eyes.
And I read the Blighty papers, where the warriors of the pen
Tell of "Christmas in the trenches" and "The Spirit of our men";
And I saved the choicest morsels and I read them to my chum,
And he muttered, as he cracked a louse and wiped it off his thumb:
"May a thousand chats from Belgium crawl under their fingers as they write;
May they dream they're not exempted till they faint with mortal fright;
May the fattest rats in Dickebusch race over them in bed;
May the lies they've written choke them like a gas cloud till they're dead;
May the horror and the torture and the things they never tell
(For they only write to order) be reserved for them in Hell!"
You'd like to be a soldier and go to France some day?
By all the dead in Delville Wood, by all the nights I lay
Between our lines and Fritz's before they brought me in;
By this old wood-and-leather stump, that once was flesh and skin;
By all the lads who crossed with me but never crossed again,
By all the prayers their mothers and their sweethearts prayed in vain,
Before the things that were that day should ever more befall
May God in common pity destroy us one and all!
a soldier coming home
he gets off the bus and looks around
families are being reunited
and lovers are kissing
all are unfamiliar faces.
he grabs his bag
and goes to the nearest payphone.
soon a cab pulls up and takes
him to a motel.
he has no one to welcome him
and no place to call home.
as he lays his head down to sleep
a tear slides from his cheek to a pillow
he feels so alone.
he doesn’t realize
that a thousand miles away
there’s a girl crying.
wishing she had been there
to welcome him home.
Home from the war.
1-02-07
by shannon flanders
Daymare demons spiral your head.
There is no rest in your soft bed.
Images of death reveal.
The guilt you hide, but feel.
A war of shadows.
Where you once fought.
In back gardens where children play
For only peace you wished and sought.
The grass green hills of your childhood remain.
But there, there was no death sign
Wife and kids you greet at garden gate.
They don’t see your inner hate.
They don’t see your embroiled conscience,
or know the infliction you bare.
They’re only too happy to have you home.
Home to love and share.
You are a soldier home.
A soldier home from a war,
Trying your guilt to hide.
Trying to forget the child you shot, that died.
The war was someone else’s.
Why should you really care?
It only really strikes home,
when you see a child dying there.
Visions cloud your mind of voices in despair.
Why did we have to die so young?
Why did our mother’s have to mourn?
Soldier from another land, please tell us why?
The soldier’s forehead frowns.
The answer he can not give.
He was only sent there.
So other have a chance to live.
Now his war is over.
Over his home he now resides.
But the voices of despair.
Still ring in his head.
He cries to himself in silence.
How can his conscience bare.
The purgatory it must go through.
Knowing he killed a child fair.
18 July 1978
Are there currently trials and tribulations in your life?
Where as you’re going through a real hard time right?
You’ve prayed and asked in the name of Jesus Christ,
Chaos is still there smack dab in the middle of the fight.
Luke 22: 42, use the word of Christ Jesus, “Nevertheless, ”
1st Peter 4: 12, in place of bewilderment at your fiery test,
Separate yourself from doubt and weakness of the rest,
Numbers 14: 24, the spirit of Caleb allowed him to possess.
It’s too cold today, I much rather stay where it’s warm inside,
Or maybe I’ll flee to another country for a few years and hide,
What army in the world would ever be able to succeed?
If soldiers only decided to serve when they felt the need.
Armies could never win without dedication and pride,
With a cloud blocking the sun they would run and hide,
Everyone who’s about to go into battle will honestly admit,
Being leery of the person behind them who's known to quit.
Sometimes you must bear Jesus’ suffering and pain,
We are disciplined for battle not in sunshine but rain.
God’s boot camp is purposely held deep in the valley,
Every war is most deadly in the darkness of the ally.
Training is exceedingly, abundantly, above and beyond the norm,
Not wearing warm-ups, sneakers or cosmetics, they wear uniforms,
Neither will these recruits whine, frown, get angry, cry or complain,
That’s left to civilians where soldiers can do all things in Jesus name.
Being a ruler in heaven by all will not be realized,
As with the animal kingdom only the strong survive,
We have to trust that God knows the reasons why,
Everyone isn’t capable of being in charge of other lives.
Leaders in eternity will not be by lottery or random pick,
In order to test your quality God might intentionally afflict,
Even redirect your finances causing the outlook to look bleak,
I Thes.5: 18 always give thanks no matter how strong or weak.
For attacks against our youth, training can be found where?
The motto of the Boy Scouts of America is, “Be Prepared, ”
Train to be meticulous, proficient through repetition be bold,
Suit of armor, powerful, mighty, pulling down of strongholds.
Being a general in the army which one would you prefer to command?
Your soldier, “I don’t know if I can make it” or, “most assuredly I can, ”
Is the private in basic training who shows initiative the 1st to promote?
Or the out of shape sluggard always with an excuse, cracking jokes?
“I will never fail you or forsake you” Joshua 1: 5 proclaims,
It’s the ultimate test of your faith, relying on His Holy name,
No matter how tumultuous the rain that is pounding your life,
Only the elite are chosen, “A Soldier In The Army Of Christ! ”
I was just a man.
I was not cruel or heartless.
I did not live with hate.
I merely did what you asked.
My last night, was not in the arms of my lover.
My last day, was not in the land of my father.
My last thoughts, were not of my mother.
My last words, were never uttered.
I did not seek glory.
I had no need to find riches.
I was not a coward,
I did not fear death.
I paid the cost of one life,
I cannot really say why.
I soaked my blood into another man's soil,
I looked for the last time at another man's sky.
When you see my name upon a wall, do not cry,
I knew, that it was my job to die.
I expect no sympathy
I just ask, remember me...
Raining hard,
my back hurts,
I’m very cold,
feet soaking wet,
they hurt, I rest.
No sleep for days;
I drag my feet,
soggy mud,
trench a bog;
it’s full of tears!
What time is it?
Dawn or dusk?
Rats, many rats,
run from holes
in side of trench.
Lots of corpses;
my arm hurts,
runs with blood,
had I passed out?
I don’t remember.
I…….
do not want
to recall,
the hell of  war,
the noise, the smoke,
the bodies fall.
Rains relentlessly,
drip, drip,
it runs down my neck.
Wish I was home,
a warm mug of tea,
two sugars please?
A light, a flash,
an explosion;
as I depart this world,
I wonder, how
this all came to be,
but mostly
WHY I came!
19-11-2008
Your Freedom he fights for you to keep
So you will be safe while you sleep
You condem him for being wrong
Yet the Soldier always stands strong
While you have the right to complain
A Soldier will fight for you, in the pouring rain
While he leaves his family behind
They are never very far from his mind
Remember every negative word you say
for YOU a Soldier keeps terror and bay
While a Soldier he may die
While a man he will not turn a blind eye
He is that fallen lance that lies as hurled,
That lies unlifted now, come dew, come rust,
But still lies pointed as it plowed the dust.
If we who sight along it round the world,
See nothing worthy to have been its mark,
It is because like men we look too near,
Forgetting that as fitted to the sphere,
Our missiles always make too short an arc.
They fall, they rip the grass, they intersect
The curve of earth, and striking, break their own;
They make us cringe for metal-point on stone.
But this we know, the obstacle that checked
And tripped the body, shot the spirit on
Further than target ever showed or shone.
I HEAR CRY'S FOR HELP
AND BOMBS EXPLODE,
BUT IM SO FAR AWAY FROM HOME,
AMERICA I STAND HERE ALONE,
FIGHTING FOR PEACE
BUT SO FAR AWAY FROM HOME,
AMERICA I STAND WITH A GUN IN MY HAND,
FIGHTING FOR FREEDOM
WITH OUT A PLAN,
AMERICA DO YOU REALLY NEED ANOTHER WAR,
IM JUST A SOLDIER THAT COULDNT TAKE NO MORE...
7/28/09
A soldier went to Heaven
And stood at the Pearly Gates
And asked himself out loudly
'Is this a joke or my fait? '
When St. Peter spoke to him
And said 'Son this is no mistake! '
'You was blown up by a land mine! '
'So welcome to heaven'and offered his hand to shake
'Do you remember the little girl? '
'That you so boldly jumped to save? '
'Well, she was just your bait! '
'And now your body lays in a grave! '
'Oh don't get me wrong! '
'The girl survived just fine'
'Someone put her in that spot '
'Just so you would trip on that mine! '
'Now as far as your family'
'Your wife is pregnant with your son! '
'Your mom and dad are both ill'
'While your brother is out having fun! '
'Do you remember your sweetheart? '
'The one, when you was back in school? '
'Well she also had your son! '
'Now don't you feel just like a fool? '
'Now your buddies in your troop'
'They got the guy who set that mine'
'He fought until he was shot to pieces'
'Aint it ironic, how things work out so fine? '
'You have a few buddies already here'
'Who also died by trial and error'
'But all by the same token'
'You all died, trying to end the world of terror'
'So come on through these pearly gates'
'You might say we've been expecting you! '
'Did you know you are one of the bravest? '
'And let me tell you that is getting very few! '
'So come on in son, make yourself at home'
'This is more than you could ever dream of! '
'But the most important thing to remember? '
'This whole place is based on love! '
wrote 3/10/2008 by Norman Hale Jr.
I was a Union soldier.
The battles were long, bloody and tiring.
I often had streaks of blood
All over my uniform.
At times I would feel down.
Really down and depressed,
Full of despair and gloom.
But one time, this family took me in
When I was wounded at Gettysburg.
They pretty much saved my life.
They saved me from dying on the road.
Their little boy would look in
On me with his big bright blue eyes.
He always shared his iced tea with me.
I would watch him rock back and forth
On his wooden horse,
Amazed at how the years had gone by
Since my own childhood.
I went back to visit the family
After the war.
I was saddened to find out
That the little boy had died.
Scarlet fever just up and got him.
A lump formed in my throat,
My heart felt like it had been crushed.
I just cried and cried.
I felt I could almost drown
In all those tears.
Every time I drink some cool iced tea
I remember that little boy.
He was a brave soldier he died young and brave
And for more than six decades he lay in his grave
And still at the dawning of each war memorial day
At his grave site a young bugler the last post does play.
Known as the Unknown Soldier one without a name
Still he had a mum and a dad just the same
And when he did not return home when the fighting was done
They grieved at their loss and they wept for their son.
The war to end all wars of all wars 'tis said
But more wars are fought and we have more war dead
And at the grave of the unknown soldier the last post is played
And to honour the war dead another parade.
Old war men do tell us young soldiers fight and die
For freedom and liberty that is a lie
They went to war when young they are now old and gray
Some grow old not wiser some are known to say.
That they were fighting for freedom and justice they believed to be true
And they were quite gallant to give them their due
But many deprived of their human rights in the World of today
And that does seem a very sad thing for to say.
With heads bowed old men showing their years in gray
At the grave of the Unknown Soldier at the dawn of the day
In silence do listen as a young bugler the last post does play
For one who fought and died in a war far away.
I was born a soldier,
to protect some place,
that was never my own.
I was the perfect soldier,
until he came along,
and ruined it forever.
He was my celestial soldier,
he was my first true love.
Milady Fate has a cruel side.
She ripped us apart forever,
so I became what I hated,
the perfect soldier once more.
So in the end I have become,
My own Celestial soldier,
for I can never have my own again.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
How I miss you so.
I think about you everyday,
And when you're coming home.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
I hope you write back soon.
Tomorrow's Sarah's birthday.
Her party starts at noon.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
I love you more each day.
My love for you grows stronger,
The longer you're away.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
I haven't heard from you at all.
Maybe I will get a letter,
By the time of Fall.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
June 15,2008.
They told me you were wounded,
And they got you help too late.
Dear, Soldier Boy,
How I miss you so.
I think about you everyday,
And why you didn't come back home
Five years ago, he had joined the IMA*
In the prime of his life, he has gone today
He was injured fighting the militants
His body was ridden with bullets
Nobody would know for sure
What he had to endure
How much it hurt
While the blood spurt
On the barren ground
Where he was groaning, found
I wonder, what went on in his head
While he lay on the hospital bed
What was he thinking?
While he was sinking
Did he in his last moments of strife
Feel he had wasted his life
Fighting a senseless war
While the world watched from afar
Or, did he while breathing his last, feel proud
As they prepared to wrap him in his shroud.
What are we achieving?
While so many families are grieving
Over the loss of their sons’ lives
Some of whom have left behind wailing kids and wives
It’s time we learnt to live in peace
And this cross border tension had ceased.
*IMA: Indian Military Academy
In the east the morning comes,
Hear the rollin' of the drums
On the hill.
But the heart that beat as they beat
In the battle's raging day heat
Lieth still.
Unto him the night has come,
Though they roll the morning drum.
What is in the bugle's blast?
It is: 'Victory at last!
Now for rest.'
But, my comrades, come behold him,
Where our colors now enfold him,
And his breast
Bares no more to meet the blade,
But lies covered in the shade.
What a stir there is to-day!
They are laying him away
Where he fell.
There the flag goes draped before him;
Now they pile the grave sod o'er him
With a knell.
And he answers to his name
In the higher ranks of fame.
There's a woman left to mourn
For the child that she has borne
In travail.
But her heart beats high and higher,
With the patriot mother's fire,
At the tale.
She has borne and lost a son,
But her work and his are done.
Fling the flag out, let it wave;
They 're returning from the grave--
'Double quick!'
And the cymbals now are crashing,
Bright his comrades' eyes are flashing
From the thick
Battle-ranks which knew him brave,
No tears for a hero's grave.
In the east the morning comes,
Hear the rattle of the drums
Far away.
Now no time for grief's pursuing,
Other work is for the doing,
Here to-day.
He is sleeping, let him rest
With the flag across his breast.
So softly you apply your mask
Your lipstick, pencil and your brush
How holy seems the dress
Such price could not be but divine
You strap on the heels of pride
And clip on the jewels
You lace your neck with silk
You tighten the leather round your waist
What’s left? Oh yes the weapon
Marc Jacobs’ purse seems heavy right?
Ammunition in it weighs it down!
The Prada shades that block the envy
The Gucci wallet of safe sex
An imitation of Christ gloves
Armani scarf to cover up the age
Along with Donna Karen’s watch to stay on track
You can’t afford to spend your time
Well every second has its price
What else is there behind this soldier on the field?
The Valentino jacket fits just right
Along with YSL blouse and D&G denim
Who ever said this war was easy?
Before you hit the battlefield
You smoothly play the film inside your head
Oh yes, off course
How could you forget the Channel keychain
No soldier can survive without their fancy tank
The Fendi bag of extra outfits can’t look good in just a car
Without the Bentley logo, it just won’t work
Well now it seems that you are ready
To strike and conquer
The hearts and lives of all the enemies ahead
But what is it that slowly makes its way down your cheek?
Have you finally come down to your senses?
And see that all these tags won’t make you happy
That the innocence you sold will not be in next season
And that the one who couldn’t win it
Lost it to the one who bought it with his card!
So are you sick of hiding behind the vanity
Behind the pretense and betrayal
Sick of covering your wounds
And powdering your scabs
Hoping that no one sees
What’s hidden behind your glittered eye
Now wait a second
The Prada shades are slowly making their way off
And well…
How silly of me?
It’s just the MAC eyeliner
And the heavy tone of powder
Have somehow managed to get in your eye
The soldier never goes down easy
She’ll never step down from the cloud
Would you? She asks with sarcasm and a smirk
Would I? I wonder…?
Girl To A Soldier On Leave
Love! You love me — your eyes
Have looked through death at mine.
You have tempted a grave too much
I let you — I repine.
I love you - Titan lover,
My own storm-days Titan.
Greater than the son of Zeus,
I know whom I would choose.
Titan — my splendid rebel —
The old Prometheus
Wanes like a ghost before your power —
His pangs were joys to yours.
Pallid days arid and wan
Tied your soul fast.
Babel-cities smoky tops
Pressed upon your growth
Weary gyves. What were you
But a word in the brains ways,
Or the sleep of Circes swine.
One gyve holds you yet.
It held you hiddenly on the Somme
Tied from my heart at home.
O must it loosen now? — I wish
You were bound with the old gyves.
Love! you love me — your eyes
Have looked through death at mine.
You have tempted a grave too much.
I let you - I repine.
God and the soldier
All men adore
In time of trouble,
And no more;
For when war is over
And all things righted,
God is neglected -
The old soldier slighted.
God and the soldier
All men adore
In time of trouble,
And no more;
For when war is over
And all things righted,
God is neglected -
The old soldier slighted.
Whether:
Taking a hill
Or a watch when all is still
Fighting in hell
Or a beach where peace should dwell
Sailing the wave
Or beneath where force may cave
Gliding the sky
Or falling death passing by
The Guardians of Liberty
Have withstood the enemy
Advancing on tyranny
Giving their all, ‘til all be free.
Back again 'n' nothin' missin' barrin'
arf a hand,
Where an Abdul bit me, chokin' in the Holy
Land.
'Struth, they got some dirty fighters in the
Moslem pack,
Bull-nosed slugs their sneakin' snipers spat
ters in yer back
Blows a gapin' sort iv pit in
What a helephant could sit in.
Bounced their bullets, if yeh please,
Like the 'oppers in a cheese,
Off me rubber pelt in droves,
Moppin' up the other coves.
So here's me once more at large in
Bay-street, Port, a bloomin' Sargin'.
“Cri, it jumbo.” “Have a beer.”
“Wot-o, Anzac; you're a dear.”
Back once more on Moley's corner, loafin' like
a dook;
Back on Bourke, me livin' image, not a
slinkin' spook;
Solid ez the day I started, medals on me
chest,
Switchin' with me pert melacca, swankin'
with the best
Where the little wimmen's flowin',
With their veils 'n' ribbons blowin'-
See their eyes of bloo 'n' brown
Butterflyin' 'bout the town!
Back at 'ome-oh, 'struth, it's good!
Long, cold lagers from the wood,
Ev'ry cobber jumpin' at you,
Strangers duckin' in to bat you-
“Good ole Jumbo, how're you?”
“'Ello, soldier, howja do?”
Back at Grillo's where the nigger googs his
whitey eyes,
Plucks his black ole greasy banjo while the
cod-steak fries;
Fish 'n' chips, a pint iv local, and the tidy
girl
Dancin' glad attendance on yeh 'zif yeh was
an earl;
Trailin' round the blazin' city,
Feelin' all content 'n' pretty,
Where the smart procession goes,
Prinked 'n' polished to the shows,
One among the happy drive-
'Sworth the world to be alive!
Dames ez smilin' ez a mother,
Ev'ry man ver fav'rit brother:
“'Ello, Jumbo, how is it ?”
“Arr there, soldier! Good 'n' fit?”
Takin' hozone at St. Kilder's good enough
for me,
Seein' Summer and the star-blink simmer in
the sea;
Cantin' up me bloomin' cady, toyin' with a
cig.,
Blowin' out me pout a little, chattin' wide 'n'
big
When there's skirt around to skite to.
Say, 'oo has a better right to?
Done me bit 'n' done it well,
Got the tag iv plate to tell;
Square Gallipoli surviver,
With a touch iv Colonel's guyver.
“Sargin' Jumbo, good ole son!”
“Soldier, soldier, you're the one!”
Back again, a wounded hero, moochin' up 'n'
down,
Feelin' 'sthough I'd got a fond arf-Nelson on
the town;
Never was so gay, so 'elp me, never felt so
kind;
Fresh from 'ell a paradise ain't very hard to
find.
After filth, 'n' flies, 'n' slaughter
Fat brown babies in the water,
Singin' people on the sand
Makes a boshter Happy Land!
War what toughened hone 'n' hide
Turned a feller soft inside!
Great it is, the 'earty greetin's,
Friendly digs, 'n' cheerful meetin's
“'Ello, Jumbo, howja do?”
“Soldier, soldier, how're you?”
I am a Roman soldier.
I choke on the dust and peer ahead.
There are only more soldiers and more marching.
The sun gleams from shields slung over the backs of my comrades
and our swords clank at our sides.
Only three weeks into the Germania campaign
and the Senate still favors the Brutii.
Still, General Augustus favors blood,
and so we march.
I am a Roman soldier and I fight for Rome and for glory.
My javelins tangle and I stop to adjust them.
Their one-use tips were digging in my back.
Feet continue to march past and I smell sweat and dirt.
There are murmurs of conversation
About the last town we sacked.
About the screams and the blood,
and how the Armenians would rather fight
then submit to Roman power.
I am a Roman soldier.
I grew up in Croton, a large town South of Rome.
My mother weaved cloth for the governor,
the white and green of the Brutii.
They claim they first settled Rome,
Their ancestor is Brutus, survivor of Troy
relation of the great Romulus.
My father was a proud Brutii
and his eyes sparkled at the name.
“Brutus, ” he said, “started this family with honor
and with honor died.”
Then two weeks passed,
and he died at Carthage.
I am a Roman soldier and I fight for Rome.
I pretend to inspect my shield as legions pass.
A Centurion calls for water and boasts
“It’s not to drink but to wipe off barbarian blood! ”
We Romans are tough and mighty
and will rule the world with Strength and Honor
There’s a problem with a leather strap
and I listen to the pounding feet.
I saw blood splattered on many.
Dried and brown.
I am a Roman soldier.
My mother’s voice rings in my head,
“Come back with your shield, or upon it.”
I wonder if my blood will be dried
and brown on someone’s feet some day.
I shake off the thought and raise my head.
The wind stirs my hair.
With it comes the rumble of cavalry.
The General will meet with us tonight.
Tomorrow we lay siege.
He had said we will do great things,
and that neither cities nor hordes could stop us.
We will live in glory and there will be songs about us
sung through the ages.
I am a Roman soldier and I am sick of fighting.
The army surges ahead and I watch it.
Shimmering and moving with a rhythm.
Thousands of blades of grass tossed by the wind.
The cavalry comes neatly alongside;
loud voices ring out in greeting.
I sigh and heft my shield,
Don my helmet and check my sword.
I fight because I have to,
I fight because the world would not have it otherwise,
The world could not stand to have one less of me,
I am a Roman soldier.
In a soldier...
Loyalty and strength you see.
In a soldier...
Discipline, bravery.
In a soldier...
A world that is free.
In a soldier..
Sacrifice, so the world can be free.
In a soldier...
No compromise.
In a soldier...
Courage in his eyes.
In a soldier...
A special bond.
In a soldier...
Iraq, Viet-Nam.
In a soldier...
Sad, drooped eyes.
In a soldier...
Pain, when a buddy dies.
In a soldier...
Terrible places.
In a soldier...
Tough, grim faces.
In a soldier...
Stories untold.
In a soldier...
Action makes him old.
In a soldier...
Dark, frightening nights.
In a soldier...
Missing his lovely wife.
In a soldier...
Memories of a decent life.
In a soldier...
Scars deep in the mind.
In a soldier...
An exploding mine.
In a soldier...
The thrill of leaving war.
In a soldier...
No more pains anymore.
In a soldier...
No more tears.
In a soldier...
Leaving war, after a long, trying year.
I am a soldier.
Just a soldier, and don’t ask me
What’s the sense
In living.
I’ve never come to know it
For myself.
I am a soldier,
Just a soldier on my path
Of war and killing.
Beyond forgiving
And beyond
Contempt.
Carte blanche
As long as Fate commands;
No strings attached
And no amenability.
A puppet with a knife.
Not knowing is so sweet.
What vility.
When its late at night
And I am all alone
I look up at the sky
And remember you are gone
Gone from this place
Where I am at now
Gone to a place
That I disavow
It’s hot and sandy
I never want to go
It’s far and distant
I will never fully know
When I get a call
Few and far between
You have to watch what you say
For reasons left unseen
I don’t know what you’re doing
Or where you are at.
I don’t know who your with
Are you somewhere in combat?
I want you here with me
I want you by my side
I want you for my self
This feeling I will not hide
There is so much you are missing
With our little girl
You’ve never even seen
Her cute little curl
Somewhere in Iraq
Fighting in their war
Is my loving husband
Of whom I most adore
Months go by
Time fades away
My love grows stronger
Each and everyday
My husband, my soldier
My hero, my friend
I love you right now
I love you till the end
Before we even know it
You will be home
In this place together
We will forever roam
My husband, my soldier
My hero, my friend
You and me together
Our love will transcend
DEDICATED TO SGT DAVID LANE, IRAQ 05-06.
June 27,2006
A bayoneted rifle stuck in the ground
with a soldier’s helmet on it
lies as a marker for a solder buried there
in the haste of battle.
No more will he see the joy again
within his loved ones eyes.
No more will he feel the tears on his cheeks
as they leak down from his eyes.
His is just a lonely grave
that is crying out for a name
like hundreds there with just a rife as a marker.
At home, and mothers weep for their lost sons
who fell before their time
leaving their ghost to roam
across a soon forgotten battlegrounds.
The grave will lay unattended
all the time fighting prevails.
Only a rifle stuck in the ground
will tell all someone is lying there.
The nameless soldier
whose flesh had been torn to shreds
lies silent and at peace
in a land far from his home.
22 May 2009
Ode to the Fallen soldier,
For he has made the ultimate
Sacrifice for his world.
Ode to his Mother for while
She lives, the grief and sadness
Take their toll on her mind, as
She goes throughout her day,
Answering questions like “are
You ok? ” and “where is your
Son, I haven’t seen him for a while? ”
She always answers, “yes I’m fine”
Or, “he’s away.” But she knows, inside,
She can’t deny.
Ode to the son he left behind,
For he will grow up without
Knowing who his father is,
Only what he’s done. Never
Will he play catch in the yard,
Like the neighbors next door.
Never will he hear that “Man to
Man” talk, that all boys should.
Ode to the music that will never
Be heard, for the only music
He made, rests in his heart.
Ode to the art that will never be
Seen, for the only art he made,
Remains in a box underground.
Ode to the Fallen Soldier, who
Died so we could live, the way
All mankind should, happy and free.
'Oh! he's nothing but a soldier,'
But he's coming here tonight,
For I saw him pass this morning,
With his uniform so bright.
He was coming in from picket,
Whilst he sung a sweet refrain,
And he kissed his hand at some one
Peeping through the window pane.
Ah! he rode no dashing charger
'With a black and flowing mane,'
But his bayonet glistened brightly,
As the sun lit up the plain.
No waving plume or feather
Flashed its crimson in the light -
He belonged to the Light Infantry,
And he came to war- to fight.
'Oh! he's nothing but a soldier,'
His trust is in his sword -
To carve his way to glory,
Through the servile Yankee horde.
No pompous pageant heralds him,
No sycophants attend,
In his belt you see his body guard -
His tried and trusty friend.
'Oh! he's nothing but a soldier,'
And a stranger in our land;
His home is in the sunny South,
By the blue Gulf's golden strand.
But I wish I knew his people,
Some little of his past,
For father's always telling me
About our 'social caste'.
'Oh! he's nothing but a soldier,'
But his eyes are very fine,
And I sometimes think, when passing,
They are piercing into mine.
Pshaw! 'He's nothing but a soldier,'
Come, let me be discreet;
But really, for a soldier,
His toilet's very neat.
'Oh! he's nothing but a soldier,'
But last night he came to tea -
What an interesting soldier -
But then, he's rather free.
'Twas two o'clock this morning,
Before he took his leave;
He has my ring - the fellow!
But what's the use to grieve?
He has been again to see us,
The 'gentleman' in grey;
He calls to see us often -
Our house is on his way
At times he sadly seeks the shade
Of yonder grove of trees,
I watched him once - this soldier -
I saw him on his knees.
One day last week I asked him
To tell me of his home.
He answered, pointing to his camp,
'Where'er these brave ones roam.'
I asked him once to tell me
Of his mother, sister dear;
A funeral cortege passed along -
Said he, 'You have them here.'
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
But this I know right well,
He has a heart of softness
Where tender virtues dwell;
For once when we were talking,
And no one else was near,
I saw him very plainly
Try to hide a startling tear.
We are speaking of Manassas,
Of that first great bloody day,
When a handful of our 'bra'e ones'
Held the Yankee hosts at bay.
'Twas here he lost his aged sire,
While fighting by his side;
He sleeps beneath the crimson turf,
Where roil'd that bloody tide.
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
But within that eye so clear,
There lurks no craven spirit,
No timid glance of fear;
For though at pity's pleading
It can melt with tender light,
I've seen it flash like lightning
Across the brow of night.
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
Such as pass us every day.
He calls them 'Ragged Devils,'
But you know that's just his way.
But there is one thing very funny,
One thing I can't explain
That when this soldier goes away,
I wish him back again.
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
And a stranger yet to fame;
But they tell me in the army,
That the 'Boys' all know his name;
The Yankees, too, have heard it,
They dread his battle shout;
They have no wish to meet him,
This dreaded Southern scout.
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
Yet you'd call his features good;
That cut he got at West Point,
While fighting under Hood.
He has a halting in his gait,
A trifle in the knee;
He brought it back from Sharpsburg,
Where he went with General Lee.
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
But his triumphs are not few;
He has seen our glorious battle flag
In all its trials through;
At Seven Pines he followed it,
On the heights at Gaines' Mill;
At Williamsburg, at West Point,
In the smoke of Malvern Hill.
Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,
But, then, its very queer -
I feel somehow when absent
I'd rather have him near.
He's gone to meet the foeman,
To stay his bloody track -
O! Heaven shield the soldier,
O, God, let him come back!
He is back again, this soldier,
With his eyes so deep and clear,
And his voice like falling waters,
Maketh music to my ear.
One empty coat-sleeve dangles,
Where once a stout arm grew,
But this soldier says, in hugging
He has no use for two.
'Oh, he's nothing but a soldier,'
And I know that on his form
He bears the scars of conflict
And of many a battle storm.
But I wouldn't give this soldier,
In his simple, humble home,
For all your perfumed monkeys,
That strut about the town.
He is back again, this soldier;
He is sitting by my side,
Tomorrow, ho! for Texas
With his young Virginia bride.
True, 'he's nothing but a soldier,'
But I'm now his loving wife;
Pledged, through good report, or evil,
To dwell with him through life.
Streets of the roaring town,
Hush for him, hus, be still!
He comes, who was stricken down
Doing the word of our will.
Hush! Let him have his state,
Give him his soldier's crown.
The grists of trade can wait
Their grinding at the mill,
But he cannot wait for his honor, now the trumpet has been blown.
Wreathe pride now for his granite brow, lay love on his breast of stone.
Toll! Let the great bells toll
Till the clashing air is dim.
Did we wrong this parted soul?
We will make it up to him.
Toll! Let him never guess
What work we set him to.
Laurel, laurel, yes;
He did waht we bade him do.
Praise, and never a whispered hint but the fight he fought was good;
Never a word that the blood on his sword was his country's own heart's-blood.
A flag for the soldier's bier
Who dies that his land may live;
O, banners, banners here,
That he doubt not nor misgive!
That he heed not from the tomb
The evil days draw near
When the nation, robed in gloom,
With its faithless past shall strive.
Let him never dream that his bullet's scream went wide of its island mark,
Home to the heart of his darling land where she stumbled and sinned in the dark.
1     My shoulders ache beneath my pack
2     (Lie easier, Cross, upon His back).
3     I march with feet that burn and smart
4     (Tread, Holy Feet, upon my heart).
5     Men shout at me who may not speak
6     (They scourged Thy back and smote Thy cheek).
7     I may not lift a hand to clear
8     My eyes of salty drops that sear.
9     (Then shall my fickle soul forget
10   Thy agony of Bloody Sweat?)
11   My rifle hand is stiff and numb
12   (From Thy pierced palm red rivers come).
13   Lord, Thou didst suffer more for me
14   Than all the hosts of land and sea.
15   So let me render back again
16   This millionth of Thy gift. Amen.
'Twas the night before christmas
in a war over seas
a soldier said a prayer
by his bed on his knees
He said 'I don't wanna be here
but i can not leave
Lord please let my family
have a great christmas eve'
This soldier I speak of
Will Have Christmas alone
all that he has
is a package from home
Inside of the package
was a great surprise
it was a picture of his family
he wiped the tears from his eyes
His wife left a note that said
we are all alone
the kids miss their daddy
please hurry back home
his six year old daughter
gave a teddybear to her dad
along with a note
that said this will help when you're sad
The soldier picked up his gun
and went back out to work
and then he noticed a kid
that looked like he was hurt
the soldier said
'What's the matter kid, what is your bother? '
the kid responded by saying
'They just shot my father.'
The soldier said
'I've got something for you, to make you less sad'
Then he pulled out a teadybear and said
let this remind you of your dad
The soldier went on his way
to continue to fight
and said 'Merry Christmas to all
and to all a good night'
As I was spittin' into the Ditch aboard o' the ~Crocodile~,
I seed a man on a man-o'-war got up in the Reg'lars' style.
'E was scrapin' the paint from off of 'er plates,
an' I sez to 'im, ''Oo are you?'
Sez 'e, 'I'm a Jolly -- 'Er Majesty's Jolly -- soldier an' sailor too!'
Now 'is work begins by Gawd knows when, and 'is work is never through;
'E isn't one o' the reg'lar Line, nor 'e isn't one of the crew.
'E's a kind of a giddy harumfrodite -- soldier an' sailor too!
An' after I met 'im all over the world, a-doin' all kinds of things,
Like landin' 'isself with a Gatlin' gun to talk to them 'eathen kings;
'E sleeps in an 'ammick instead of a cot,
an' 'e drills with the deck on a slew,
An' 'e sweats like a Jolly -- 'Er Majesty's Jolly -- soldier an' sailor too!
For there isn't a job on the top o' the earth the beggar don't know, nor do --
You can leave 'im at night on a bald man's 'ead, to paddle 'is own canoe --
'E's a sort of a bloomin' cosmopolouse -- soldier an' sailor too.
We've fought 'em in trooper, we've fought 'em in dock,
and drunk with 'em in betweens,
When they called us the seasick scull'ry-maids,
an' we called 'em the Ass Marines;
But, when we was down for a double fatigue, from Woolwich to Bernardmyo,
We sent for the Jollies -- 'Er Majesty's Jollies -- soldier an' sailor too!
They think for 'emselves, an' they steal for 'emselves,
and they never ask what's to do,
But they're camped an' fed an' they're up an' fed before our bugle's blew.
Ho! they ain't no limpin' procrastitutes -- soldier an' sailor too.
You may say we are fond of an 'arness-cut, or 'ootin' in barrick-yards,
Or startin' a Board School mutiny along o' the Onion Guards;
But once in a while we can finish in style for the ends of the earth to view,
The same as the Jollies -- 'Er Majesty's Jollies -- soldier an' sailor too!
They come of our lot, they was brothers to us;
they was beggars we'd met an' knew;
Yes, barrin' an inch in the chest an' the arm, they was doubles o' me an' you;
For they weren't no special chrysanthemums -- soldier an' sailor too!
To take your chance in the thick of a rush, with firing all about,
Is nothing so bad when you've cover to 'and, an' leave an' likin' to shout;
But to stand an' be still to the ~Birken'ead~ drill
is a damn tough bullet to chew,
An' they done it, the Jollies -- 'Er Majesty's Jollies --
soldier an' sailor too!
Their work was done when it 'adn't begun; they was younger nor me an' you;
Their choice it was plain between drownin' in 'eaps
an' bein' mopped by the screw,
So they stood an' was still to the ~Birken'ead~ drill, soldier an' sailor too!
We're most of us liars, we're 'arf of us thieves,
an' the rest are as rank as can be,
But once in a while we can finish in style
(which I 'ope it won't 'appen to me).
But it makes you think better o' you an' your friends,
an' the work you may 'ave to do,
When you think o' the sinkin' ~Victorier~'s Jollies -- soldier an' sailor too!
Now there isn't no room for to say ye don't know --
they 'ave proved it plain and true --
That whether it's Widow, or whether it's ship, Victorier's work is to do,
An' they done it, the Jollies -- 'Er Majesty's Jollies --
soldier an' sailor too!
My soldier boy has crossed the sea
To fight the foeman;
But he'll come back to make of me
And honest woman.
So I am singing all day long,
Despite blood-shedding;
For though I know he's done me wrong,
We'll end by wedding.
My soldier boy is home again,
So bold and scathless;
But oh, my heart is numb with pain
Because he's faithless.
He's brought with him a French Mam'selle;
They plan a marriage;
Maybe I'll go - no one will know
Of my miscarriage.
My soldier boy has made his choice,
She'll hold him to it;
I tell myself that I rejoice,
May he not rue it.
But oh, that starry month of May,
Love-words wild spoken!
I stand alone and make no moan...
My heart is broken.
As the dawn begins to break, I see headlights
The farm is just a ways down the road
I wonder if she knows, I'm coming
And I wonder , if she is there alone
It's been a year since the war called me
I went away to do what I had to do
It's been a year since I held her in my arms
It's been a year, shes had time to choose
I've seen many soldiers get the letter
Letters from someone that said goodbye
And each time the mail when it would come
I would brace myself and worry if I got mine
Now it's been a year and I'm coming home
But time can change ones  mind sometimes
And if shes waiting like she said she would
Then today will be the day I make her mine
I kept every letter that she wrote
In battle I kept them close to my heart
She has always been the world to me
I couldn't imagine my life with out my sweet heart
As I pull into the drive I can see
Someone has raised a flag with one lone star
And I can see a banner just beneath
And I read as I pull up in the car
' The love of my life '
' Is fighting for your Life '
' Dear God '
' Please let him come back home to me '.
Soldier Freddy
was never ready,
But! Soldier Neddy,
unlike Freddy
Was always ready
and steady,
That's why,
When Soldier Neddy
Is-outside-Buckingham-Palace-on-guard-in -the-pouring-wind-and-rain-being-steady-and-ready ,
Freddy
is home in beddy.
Soldier going to the war--
Will you take my heart with you,
So that I may share a little
In the famous things you do?
Soldier going to the war--
If in battle you must fall,
Will you, among all the faces,
See my face the last of all?
Soldier coming from the war--
Who shall bind your sunburnt brow
With the laurel of the hero,
Soldier, soldier--vow for vow!
Soldier coming from the war--
When the street is one wide sea,
Flags and streaming eyes and glory--
Soldier, will you look for me?
'Sweetheart, take this,' a soldier said,
'And bid me brave good-by;
It may befall we ne'er shall wed,
But love can never die.
Be steadfast in thy troth to me,
And then, whate'er my lot,
'My soul to God, my heart to thee,'-
Sweetheart, forget me not! '
The maiden took the tiny flower
And nursed it with her tears:
Lo! he who left her in that hour
Came not in after years.
Unto a hero's death he rode
'Mid shower of fire and shot;
But in the maiden's heart abode
The flower, forget-me-not.
And when he came not with the rest
From out the years of blood,
Closely unto her widowed breast
She pressed a faded bud;
Oh, there is love and there is pain,
And there is peace, God wot,-
And these dear three do live again
In sweet forget-me-not.
'T is to an unmarked grave to-day
That I should love to go,-
Whether he wore the blue or gray,
What need that we should know?
'He loved a woman,' let us say,
And on that sacred spot,
To woman's love, that lives for aye,
We'll strew forget-me-not.
1887.
God's got an Army, not afraid to fight.
Children of light, wariours of night.
Army, marching through the land!
let me hear war cry.
Soldier of the Cross righteousness healing in their hearts.
The kingdom of hell is gonna feel Sorrow
cause our war Cry, violence take it by force.
we commence to change this Nations course.
Suffereth take by force.
We are the Soldier of God, we are not afraid to fight.
We are Army Children of the lights
wariours of righteousness
Marching through the land.
Hearts to respond, speakin fort the fames of revival
they are burnin! we're a showcase of the hell
do when we are strong in our faiths.
to the whole generation the world wont be the same.
Gracious and compassionate show to anger and rich in love!
God is good to all compassionate of all he has Made!
A tribute to Rhodesia's Soldier Pioneers.
He held Dads medals in his hand,
As they lowered his casket down
A hole dug in that barren land,
On the slopes of Salisbury Town.
Head bowed down towards the sand,
Tears raining from his eye,
On the Medals clutched within his hand,
Like raindrops from on high.
He listened to the prayers and Word,
And to the eulogy;
No finer words had this lad heard,
Of his only progeny.
Rhodesia was, in those first days,
Untamed and fancy free,
Dingaan was the black mans praise,
King of M’tabele.
All the pacts and treaties broken,
By Dingaan and his son,
Treaties both penned and spoken,
Now broken every one.
Rebellion grew against those white
By blacks a thirst for war,
Warriors vexing their great might
Were fifty score, times four.
An assegai had pierced his chest,
As he fought hand to hand.
These ‘Murungus’ coming from the west,
Unwelcomed in Black’s land.
Proud medals from some distant war,
His life’s worth left to show,
Reminders of campaigns of yore,
Fought for a land… he’d never know.
The soldier fights for the people,
The soldier fights for good,
The soldier fights against evil.
Evil fights against the soldier,
Good fights with the soldier,
The people help the soldier.
The soldier fights for the Politicians,
The soldier fights for his country,
The soldier fights for his religion.
The politicians send him of to fight,
The country supports his strength,
His religion holds him back.
Soldiers hang around near
borders all around  to save
a nation from intruders,
fight with adverse  weather
and spies of enemies
They can not hang around
near press club or elite clubs
and they belong to a different
class altogether..
Salutations to Soldiers
July 17,2009
It's good to feel pain, It lets me know I'm alive.
Roll with the thunder, Know that I'll survive.
March on I'm a soldier, No matter the war.
Keep my head up I'm a soldier, I'm tough to the core.
My fear is my weakness, Let my weakness be gone.
I know I'm a soldier, I've been one all along.
We are picking our battles, Fighting our wars.
We hold the weight of the world, Our minds and bodies are sore.
But push on I'm on a soldier, The stronger of some.
A soldier of life, In an army of one.
It's good to feel pain, It lets me know I'm alive.
Take the jolt of lightning, Know that I'll survive.
Soldier, rest! thy warfare o'er,
Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking:
Dream of battled fields no more,
Days of danger, nights of waking.
In our isle's enchanted hall,
Hands unseen thy couch are strewing,
Fairy strains of music fall,
Every sense in slumber dewing.
Soldier, rest! thy warfare o'er,
Dream of fighting fields no more:
Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking,
Morn of toil, nor night of waking.
No rude sound shall reach thine ear,
Armour's clang, or war-steed champing,
Trump nor pibroch summon here
Mustering clan, or squadron tramping.
Yet the lark's shrill fife may come
At the day-break from the fallow,
And the bittern sound his drum,
Booming from the sedgy shallow.
Ruder sounds shall none be near,
Guards nor warders challenge here,
Here's no war-steed's neigh and champing,
Shouting clans or squadrons stamping.
Huntsman, rest! thy chase is done,
While our slumbrous spells assail ye,
Dream not, with the rising sun,
Bugles here shall sound reveillé.
Sleep! the deer is in his den;
Sleep! thy hounds are by thee lying;
Sleep! nor dream in yonder glen,
How thy gallant steed lay dying.
Huntsman, rest; thy chase is done,
Think not of the rising sun,
For at dawning to assail ye,
Here no bugles sound reveillé.
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Why don't you march with my true love?"
"We're fresh from off the ship an' 'e's maybe give the slip,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
New love!  True love!
Best go look for a new love,
The dead they cannot rise, an' you'd better dry your eyes,
An' you'd best go look for a new love.
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
What did you see o' my true love?"
"I seed 'im serve the Queen in a suit o' rifle-green,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Did ye see no more o' my true love?"
"I seed 'im runnin' by when the shots begun to fly --
But you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Did aught take 'arm to my true love?"
"I couldn't see the fight, for the smoke it lay so white --
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
I'll up an' tend to my true love!"
"'E's lying on the dead with a bullet through 'is 'ead,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
I'll down an' die with my true love!"
"The pit we dug'll 'ide 'im an' the twenty men beside 'im --
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
Do you bring no sign from my true love?"
"I bring a lock of 'air that 'e allus used to wear,
An' you'd best go look for a new love."
"Soldier, soldier come from the wars,
O then I know it's true I've lost my true love!"
"An' I tell you truth again -- when you've lost the feel o' pain
You'd best take me for your true love."
True love!  New love!
Best take 'im for a new love,
The dead they cannot rise, an' you'd better dry your eyes,
An' you'd best take 'im for your true love.
He thinks he’s not, but he’s hot!
Deeply clumsy, dartful smiley eyes… a playful child
The tainted gun, the spilt paint, oh! the tears, the loss
The pain in his eyes…the story of his life….bloody, wild
Soldier smiles with broken bones, for happiness sought
Who wouldn’t, with the battles he’s fought?
He thinks he’s not, but he’s hot!
He laughs at himself, nonchalantly guilty, spins a silly joke
He won’t break but falls over to prop you up, if twice over, you see
He’s no fool, though he would be to make you laugh, he’ll even shock
Soldier blushes when you tell him, for he wouldn’t agree
Who wouldn’t see it, but a shy girl like me, high on the rooftop?
4.01.10
I love you, great new Titan!
Am I not you?
Napoleon or Caesar
Out of you grew.
Out of the unthinkable torture,
Eyes kissed by death,
Won back to the world again,
Lost and won in a breath,
Cruel men are made immortal,
Out of your pain born.
They have stolen the sun’s power
With their feet on your shoulders worn.
Let them shrink from your girth,
That has outgrown the pallid days,
When you slept like Circe’s swine,
Or a word in the brain’s way.
Soldiers fight straight wars
near the boundaries of mother
nation and safeguard humanity
and at the end die like a martyr...
Terrorists hide from timid caverns..
conspire and plant malignant
explosives on innocent lives
and instantly devastate peaceful
existence...
Eco friendly planet earth cries for ever! ! !
August 18,2008
3.15 pm
Soldier, wake - the day is peeping,
Honour ne'er was won in sleeping,
Never when the sunbeams still
Lay unreflected on the hill:
'Tis when they are glinted back
From axe and armour, spear and jack,
That they promise future story
Many a page of deathless glory.
Shields that are the foe man's terror,
Ever are the morning's mirror.
Arm and up - the morning beam
Hath call'd the rustic to his team,
Hath call'd the falc'ner to the lake,
Hath call'd the huntsman to the brake;
The early student ponders o'er
His dusty tomes of ancient lore.
Soldier, wake - thy harvest, fame;
Thy study, conquest; war, thy game.
Shield, that would be foeman's terror,
Still should gleam the morning's mirror.
Poor hire repays the rustic's pain;
More paltry still the sportsman's gain;
Vainest of all, the student's theme
End in gome metaphysic dream.
Yet each is up, and each has toil'd
Since first the peep of dawn has smiled;
And each is eagerer in his aim
Than he who barters life for fame.
Up, up, and arm thee, son of terror!
Be thy bright shield the morning's mirror.
At the end of yet another week,
weary soldiers are huddled behind church doors,
reminiscing about the recent past with outlook bleak -
Not knowing that Life can offer so much more.
Military plans for Earth's invasion
are held by the Kingdom priests,
trying to comprehend the message of scriptural persuasion
for bringing captive lives to Godly release.
Between berating and war counsel cries,
there are mixed signals being presented.
Separating truth from unintentional lies
is a real challenge to our minds and senses.
The battle is not ours to engage,
but we must employ a strategy of Love -
To reach souls without offending on Life's stage
by using wisdom that flows from Heaven above.
A gentle breeze chatters the leaves
as birds sing their greetings.
The sun shines, a day like any other,
and yet like none before.
Two mirrored rows of uniforms
lined up like blue dominoes,
white gloves holding rifles at the ready.
One lone bugle cries.
Twenty-four notes,
each note slow as a tear,
blankets ears and heavy hearts.
In the silence between,
nature holds its breath.
Gone is the wind.
Gone are the bird songs.
Gone is her hold on composure,
all lost in the bugle's lament.
Solemnly a soldier approaches,
white gloves present a tri-fold flag,
and in one final mournful note,
legions of silent voices unite
to call a comrade home
and a young wife weeps.
Teacher is a soldier with a pen and an eternal guide
Lighting wisdom to mind decayed and white,
Floating tirelessly till dark with no pride,
Without fear and favor telling tales bright.
To clean the dirt river flows and air floats,
To vibrate heart and mind he gloats.
‘Tween goddess Sarswati and man he is linking milk,
Giving life to the world with deepest think.
As blessed banyan with roots, side by side,
Withstand winter, storm, wind and tide,
Beauty he admires and goodness wide,
Word and language such as teacher ride,
He will turn dust to gold, if his ways not hide,
And rake a soul with favorite manifold glide.
FROM:
DR. YOGESH SHARMA
Hey! My handsome soldier
Your crystallized eyes destined
to be a bachelor in your entire life?
These eyes can mesmerize
Thousands of innocent lass in the world
Your young courage
Forced you to an unnecessary war.
You fought for others
With your colleagues.
These well to do hypocrites enjoy
With their off spring
And still we vote for them.
Do not worry my dear
The experience you gained
Is the preliminary qualification for the battle of Life?
To my unseen friend Dave.Tanguay
The broken soldier sings and whistles day to dark;
He's but the remnant of a man, maimed and half-blind,
But the soul they could not harm goes singing like the lark,
Like the incarnate Joy that will not be confined.
The Lady at the Hall has given him a light task,
He works in the gardens as busy as a bee;
One hand is but a stump and his face a pitted mask;
The gay soul goes singing like a bird set free.
Whistling and singing like a linnet on wings;
The others stop to listen, leaning on the spade,
Whole men and comely, they fret at little things.
The soul of him's singing like a thrush in a glade.
Hither and thither, hopping, like Robin on the grass,
The soul in the broken man is beautiful and brave;
And while he weeds the pansies and the bright hours pass
The bird caught in the cage whistles its joyous stave.
Life contracts and death is expected,
As in season of autumn.
The soldier falls.
He does not become a three-days personage.
Imposing his separation,
Calling for pomp.
Death is absolute and without memorial,
As in a season of autumn,
When the wind stops,
When the wind stops and, over the heavens,
The clouds go, nevertheless,
In their direction.
When the grass was closely mown,
Walking on the lawn alone,
In the turf a hole I found
And hid a soldier underground.
Spring and daisies came apace;
Grasses hid my hiding-place;
Grasses run like a green sea
O'er the lawn up to my knee.
Under grass alone he lies,
Looking up with leaden eyes,
Scarlet coat and pointed gun,
To the stars and to the sun.
When the grass is ripe like grain,
When the scythe is stoned again,
When the lawn is shaven clear,
Then my hole shall reappear.
I shall find him, never fear,
I shall find my grenadier;
But, for all that's gone and come,
I shall find my soldier dumb.
He has lived, a little thing,
In the grassy woods of spring;
Done, if he could tell me true,
Just as I should like to do.
He has seen the starry hours
And the springing of the flowers;
And the fairy things that pass
In the forests of the grass.
In the silence he has heard
Talking bee and ladybird,
And the butterfly has flown
O'er him as he lay alone.
Not a word will he disclose,
Not a word of all he knows.
I must lay him on the shelf,
And make up the tale myself.
Yes! raise me on your arm, Dick Dale,
My comrade old and true.
And let me of the glad earth take
One last and lingering view.
When yet a few brief moments more
Of this flittering hour have fled,
You’ll shed an old friend's tear, Dick Dale,
Above your comrade's head.
We fought together, side by side,
In many a bloody fray,
From Malvern Hill's dark hour of strife,
To fierce Antietam's day.
And when again the 'long roll' calls,
For battle to prepare,
You will not fail the flag, Dick Dale,
But I shall not be there.
You will not soon forget me, Dick!
I know it by that sigh;
I know it by those tears that shine
In your half averted eye.
But my dear old comrade's heart will swell,
I know with honest pride,
When he thinks that for the grand old flag,
His old companion died.
Cut off this light brown lock, Dick Dale,
For the girl that waits at home.
Yes! Hoping waits her soldier love,
Who never more can come.
'Twill soothe perhaps her bleeding heart
To know that watched by you,
The boy she loved, at least has died,
With one who loved him too.
You'll visit all the quaint old nooks
We sought when we were boys,
And thoughts of me will come, Dick Dale,
With thoughts of childhood's joys;
And when you reach the old playground
Where once you used to play,
You’ll not forget your friend, Dick Dale,
In his lone grave far away.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home.
Trickling Down His Face A Tear,
Forgetting How It Feels To Fear
Death And All It's Fate And Glory.
Now It's Here, No Need To Worry.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home
He's One Of Those They'll All Forget;
The Life He Lived, The Goals He Set,
The Ones He Loved, The Ones Who Wait
To See His Nearly Forgotten Face.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home
Now Breathing's Just A Waste Of Breath
And Living's Just A Waste Of Death
As He Searches For A New Address;
A Brand New Home Free Of Loneliness.
Fallen Soldier All Alone
Fallen Soldier Far From Home
Lying Motionless On The Ground,
The Battle Raging All Around.
For Now He Is Not All Alone.
This Fallen Soldier Is Welcomed Home.
I walk with no man, I always walk alone
My soul made of fire and my heart of stone
I have no pain, ignoring all that I feel
With bones of iron and nerves of steel
This is what I portray, fooling you all
My emotions so strong, my defenses so tall
But inside I'm weak, having unsettled war
Not knowing why I battle or what this is for
This war is unending and cease fires are few
No shots are heard but damage is true
What is going on here, what is this for
I'm a lone soldier in a private war
I wanted to become a soldier
An army of one
To please my father and excite
My juvenile ambition
But all I have seen
Is dead children and old men
I have aged in a few months
And found bitterness
My tent buddy is dead
Another statistic for the army
A bad dream for me
And horror I will never forget
In forty years will I still cry
At my companies dinners
Wonder why I was there at all
Will I be uncomfortable to be with
As I cannot forget the commandment,
' Thou shalt not kill '.
Lest the young soldiers be strange in heaven,
God bids the old soldier they all adored
Come to Him and wait for them, clean, new-shriven,
A happy doorkeeper in the House of the Lord.
Lest it abash them, the strange new splendour,
Lest it affright them, the new robes clean;
Here's an old face, now, long-tried, and tender,
A word and a hand-clasp as they troop in.
'My boys,' he greets them: and heaven is homely,
He their great captain in days gone o'er;
Dear is the friend's face, honest and comely,
Waiting to welcome them by the strange door.
Lady when I left you
Ere I sailed the sea,
Bitterly bereft you
Told me you would be.
Frequently and often
When I fought the foe,
How my heart would soften,
Pitying your woe!
Still, throughout my yearning,
It was my belief,
That my mere returning
Would annul your grief.
Arguing ex parte,
Maybe you can tell
Why I find your heart A.
W.O.L.
I mind the river from Mount Frome
To Ballanshantie’s Bridge,
The Mudgee Hills, and Buckaroo,
Lowe’s Peak, and Granite Ridge.
The “tailers” in the creek beneath,
The rugged she-oak boles,
The river cod where shallows linked,
The willowed water-holes.
I mind the blacksoil river flats,
The red soil levels, too,
The sidings where below the scrub
The golden wattles grew;
The track that ran by Tierney’s Gap,
The dusk and ghost alarms,
The glorious morning on the hills,
And all the German farms.
I mind the blue-grey gully bush,
The slab-and-shingle school,
The “soldier birds” that picked the crumbs
Beneath the infants’ stool.
(Ah! did those little soldier birds,
That whispered, ever know
That one of us should rise so high
And sadly sink so low?)
I mind the lessons that we droned
In books from Irish schools,
The canings and the keepings-in
For breaking bounds and rules.
Ah! little did the teacher dream
That one of us, perchance,
Might write in London to be read
In Germany and France.
I mind the days we played at camp
With billy-can and swag,
I mind the notes sent home by girls
When someone “played the wag.”
Ah! little did the master think
(Who’d lost the roving star)
What truants in their after years
Would play the wag so far.
I mind when first he gave to me
A pen and ink to write,
And, last, the “Fourth Class Forms” he made
I shared with Lucy White.
The other boys were other boys,
With cricket ball and bat,
They had a fine contempt for girls,
But they got over that.
The “rounders” where the girls came in—
The Tomboy and the rest—
The earnest game of Pris’ners’ Base—
The game that I liked best.
The kangarooing on the ridge,
And in the brown moonlight,
The “possuming” across the flats,
With dogs and gun at night.
The “specking” in old diggers’ heaps
For “colours” after rain,
The horse-shoes saved against the time
The circus came again,
And sold to Jimmy Siver-right—
The blacksmith on the flat;
The five-corners, the swimming hole—
Oh! I remember that!
I mind the holland “dinner bags”—
A book bag of green baize—
The bread and dripping, bread and meat,
And bread and treacle days.
The bread and butter swopped for meat,
The crumb we swopped for crust—
We’ve married—and divorced—since then,
And most old homes are dust.
It was the time, it was the place—
Australia’s hardest page—
When boys were cast for farming work
At fourteen years of age.
It was the time, it was the place,
The latter “Early Day,”
When boys ride home from old bark schools
And to the world away.
I’ve drifted through Port Said since then,
Naples and Leicester Square,
And Collins and Macquarie Streets—
I know the secrets there.
Ah me! The country boy and girl,
The country lass and lad,
As innocent as soldier birds,
Though we thought we were bad!
But, spite of all their daring truth,
And some work that shall last,
The bitter years of my brave youth
Are better in the past.
This does not call for bitterness,
Nor does it call for tears,
The purest little thing perhaps
I’ve printed here for years.
The railway runs by Mudgee Hills,
Old farms are lost or lone,
And children’s children sadly go
To schools of brick and stone.
Yet are the same. The Mudgee Hills
And Mudgee skies as fair—
And the little grey-clad soldier birds
Are just as busy there.
The Militant Soldier Boy
Lies dying. In shame,
His body lies in disgrace,
Because he could no longer face
The Innocents.
The Innocents, the ones who died
At his hand in that foreign land.
He saw them in his dreams.
He saw them when he was awake,
Or walking about his hometown,
His place of safety, his refuge.
They stood beside him
At the altar
Of his church,
And when he was at work,
Until he could no longer face
The Innocents.
And so, with his Soldier Boy's
Tattered Honor gathered about him,
His heart gave a sigh.
He decided he must die,
Shamed and alone,
Like the Innocents.
Dedicated to all soldiers who must live with the horror of death.
Scarlett Treat, March 26,2007
the soldier fights for the hippys rights to protest against that soldier
the soldier fights for the politions rights to send that soldier to war
the soldier fights for buisness mans rights to make money
the soldier fights for the policemans rights to arrest that soldier
the soldier fights for school kids right to know about past soldiers
the soldier fights to so that you may all sleep at night
the soldier fights for religion so that you may all belive what you wish
And yet the soldier fights on
the soldier fights for his flag, for his country, for his life
Fighting for freedom,
Fall of a valiant soldier
Resting in the Lord
(Dedicated to my children's grandfather)
© 2011
'Deny your God! ' they ringed me with their spears;
Blood-crazed were they, and reeking from the strife;
Hell-hot their hate, and venom-fanged their sneers,
And one man spat on me and nursed a knife.
And there was I, sore wounded and alone,
I, the last living of my slaughtered band.
Oh sinister the sky, and cold as stone!
In one red laugh of horror reeled the land.
And dazed and desperate I faced their spears,
And like a flame out-leaped that naked knife,
And like a serpent stung their bitter jeers:
'Deny your God, and we will give you life.'
Deny my God! Oh life was very sweet!
And it is hard in youth and hope to die;
And there my comrades dear lay at my feet,
And in that blear of blood soon must I lie.
And yet... I almost laughed -  it seemed so odd,
For long and long had I not vainly tried
To reason out and body forth my God,
And prayed for light, and doubted -  and denied:
Denied the Being I could not conceive,
Denied a life-to-be beyond the grave....
And now they ask me, who do not believe,
Just to deny, to voice my doubt, to save
This life of mine that sings so in the sun,
The bloom of youth yet red upon my cheek,
My only life! -  O fools! 'tis easy done,
I will deny... and yet I do not speak.
'Deny your God! ' their spears are all agleam,
And I can see their eyes with blood-lust shine;
Their snarling voices shrill into a scream,
And, mad to slay, they quiver for the sign.
Deny my God! yes, I could do it well;
Yet if I did, what of my race, my name?
How they would spit on me, these dogs of hell!
Spurn me, and put on me the brand of shame.
A white man's honour! what of that, I say?
Shall these black curs cry 'Coward' in my face?
They who would perish for their gods of clay -
Shall I defile my country and my race?
My country! what's my country to me now?
Soldier of Fortune, free and far I roam;
All men are brothers in my heart, I vow;
The wide and wondrous world is all my home.
My country! reverent of her splendid Dead,
Her heroes proud, her martyrs pierced with pain:
For me her puissant blood was vainly shed;
For me her drums of battle beat in vain,
And free I fare, half-heedless of her fate:
No faith, no flag I owe -  then why not seek
This last loop-hole of life? Why hesitate?
I will deny... and yet I do not speak.
'Deny your God! ' their spears are poised on high,
And tense and terrible they wait the word;
And dark and darker glooms the dreary sky,
And in that hush of horror no thing stirred.
Then, through the ringing terror and sheer hate
Leaped there a vision to me -  Oh, how far!
A face, Her face... through all my stormy fate
A joy, a strength, a glory and a star.
Beneath the pines, where lonely camp-fires gleam,
In seas forlorn, amid the deserts drear,
How I had gladdened to that face of dream!
And never, never had it seemed so dear.
O silken hair that veils the sunny brow!
O eyes of grey, so tender and so true!
O lips of smiling sweetness! must I now
For ever and for ever go from you?
Ah, yes, I must... for if I do this thing,
How can I look into your face again?
Knowing you think me more than half a king,
I with my craven heart, my honour slain.
No! no! my mind's made up. I gaze above,
Into that sky insensate as a stone;
Not for my creed, my country, but my Love
Will I stand up and meet my death alone.
Then though it be to utter dark I sink,
The God that dwells in me is not denied;
'Best' triumphs over 'Beast', -  and so I think
Humanity itself is glorified....
'And now, my butchers, I embrace my fate.
Come! let my heart's blood slake the thirsty sod.
Curst be the life you offer! Glut your hate!
Strike! Strike, you dogs! I'll not deny my God.'
I saw the spears that seemed a-leap to slay,
All quiver earthward at the headman's nod;
And in a daze of dream I heard him say:
'Go, set him free who serves so well his God! '
There he stands; this broken down man,
His body tired and weak as his feet pierce the sand,
Ten thousand miles from happiness and safety,
As he cries from the top of his lungs; god please save me.
The agony of this chosen life has struck him hard,
There’s nowhere left to run and it’s already going dark,
Can he survive another night in this desert?
A part of him feels like giving up and saying forget it.
It’s been another day of nothing but bloodshed,
He gave all he could until he had nothing else left,
But maybe tomorrow things will be different,
As he listens to the sound of the mortars in the distance.
The intense heat of the morning sun strikes his forehead,
As he pinches his skin so tightly to confirm he’s not yet dead,
It’s time to start moving and escape from this living hell,
Will he make it out of here alive, only time will tell.
He has walked for hours and hours and still he’s no closer,
All he wants is to be with his beautiful wife and hold onto her,
There she is, he can see her standing at the bottom of the sand dune,
As he starts running towards her he can’t believe he’s going to see her again so soon.
He makes it safely down to the bottom,
Arms open wide; he thought he’d been forgotten,
And that’s when the intense pain hit him in his tracks,
As he falls to the ground, what was that?
Nothing is clear to him anymore, his eyes are blinkered,
The bullet has just struck him, as he lay there injured,
He watches as the blood drains from his body,
Wondering what will people think of me?
He pulls out a small picture and kisses his wife goodbye,
He holds it so tightly as he looks up to the dark sky,
As he slips away knowing his time here on earth is over,
He still feels proud to have lived the life of a ‘soldier’.
copyright 2009 ben burgess all rights reserved.
As the silence fell,  the birds began to sing
The soldier tries to stand on his own
As the blood trickles down his arm he looks and he see's
As he stands,  he finds he's all alone
His friends are all about him at his feet
The enemy has perished from the seige
From the field of battle he searches the fields and trees
With a sigh of relief he drops down to one knee
With one good hand he fumbles his radio
Must get command on line, must let them know
He hears a voice on line that says Bravo twenty three
Report your twenty and status would you please
The soldier leans his back against a tree
And streaches out before him his tired feet
He says, Sir, the positions held, it is ours to keep
Defended now by one beneath this tree
The voice it says that help is on the way
The soldier hesitates,  as a breath he takes
Across his legs he lays his rifle down
Chambers a round, then comes back to say
Sir, I see a dozen men they come
I'll try to hold this ground but I'm just one
I'll try to hold them back, but I don't think I may
When you come Sir, Please, pray my soul to take
When the help it came they found beneath the tree
The young man in his twentys no longer breathed
And out before him scattered on the ground
Were a  dozen men,  dead enemy were found
The Captain he walks up to the tree
The soldier's hand was warm he finds heartbeat
He said men if you can, you must try to save this man
And they did, for this soldier he was me.
Yes. Why do we áll, seeing of a soldier, bless him? bless
Our redcoats, our tars? Both these being, the greater part,
But frail clay, nay but foul clay. Here it is: the heart,
Since, proud, it calls the calling manly, gives a guess
That, hopes that, makesbelieve, the men must be no less;
It fancies, feigns, deems, dears the artist after his art;
And fain will find as sterling all as all is smart,
And scarlet wear the spirit of wár thére express.
Mark Christ our King. He knows war, served this soldiering through;
He of all can handle a rope best. There he bides in bliss
Now, and séeing somewhére some mán do all that man can do,
For love he leans forth, needs his neck must fall on, kiss,
And cry ‘O Christ-done deed! So God-made-flesh does too:
Were I come o’er again’ cries Christ ‘it should be this’.
Home furthest off grows dearer from the way;
And when the army in the Indias lay
Friends' letters coming from his native place
Were like old neighbours with their country face.
And every opportunity that came
Opened the sheet to gaze upon the name
Of that loved village where he left his sheep
For more contented peaceful folk to keep;
And friendly faces absent many a year
Would from such letters in his mind appear.
And when his pockets, chafing through the case,
Wore it quite out ere others took the place,
Right loath to be of company bereft
He kept the fragments while a bit was left.
the soldier is given the order to run
by the officer 6 miles away
the soldier is killed by a machine gun
whilst the officer is 6 miles away
the soldier is left lying on the ground
by the officer 6 miles away
the soldier is buried without a sound
while the officer sleeps 6 miles away
the job is done
the war is won
by the soldier,6 feet in the clay
Here in the noisy night
Is his delight.
Where maxims pour
Their thudding lead
Upon the ground
And on the shore.
He revels in the sound,
And lies among the dead.
Here where the sniper lies
Beneath the skies
In hungry wait;
And gasping shells
Disgorge red death.
This is his fate:
To love war’s rhythmic breath,
And war’s discordant knells.
Here on the parapet
His foes he met.
See where they sleep
In battered lines.
Here lies his bed
So long and deep,
And on his broken head
A shaft from Heaven shines.
He is that fallen lance that lies as hurled,
That lies unlifted now, come dew, come rust,
But still lies pointed as it ploughed the dust.
If we who sight along it round the world,
See nothing worthy to have been its mark,
It is because like men we look too near,
Forgetting that as fitted to the sphere,
Our missiles always make too short an arc.
They fall, they rip the grass, they intersect
The curve of earth, and striking, break their own;
They make us cringe for metal-point on stone.
But this we know, the obstacle that checked
And tripped the body, shot the spirit on
Further than target ever showed or shone.
War is a battle one cannot win.
Win or lose you are committing a sin
In war there are no victorious winners.
The participating parties are the sinners
.
Devastation, death, shock and awe
The true meaning of that little word war.
Human beings slain, wounded and in pain.
Never being able to live normal lives again.
Gallant men and women meet their maker.
And end up in the obituaries of the daily paper.
Mother and father weep for their son and daughter.
Whilst war carries on with it’s insane slaughter.
Oh God give me you’re almighty strength.
So that I.
May never have to pull the trigger,
and see another human die.
Yes I am most fortunate that I survived,
But my heart grieves for those who died.
Give me the scorn of the stars and a peak defiant;
Wail of the pines and a wind with the shout of a giant;
Night and a trail unknown and a heart reliant.
Give me to live and love in the old, bold fashion;
A soldier's billet at night and a soldier's ration;
A heart that leaps to the fight with a soldier's passion.
For I hold as a simple faith there's no denying:
The trade of a soldier's the only trade worth plying;
The death of a soldier's the only death worth dying.
So let me go and leave your safety behind me;
Go to the spaces of hazard where nothing shall bind me;
Go till the word is War -  and then you will find me.
Then you will call me and claim me because you will need me;
Cheer me and gird me and into the battle-wrath speed me....
And when it's over, spurn me and no longer heed me.
For guile and a purse gold-greased are the arms you carry;
With deeds of paper you fight and with pens you parry;
You call on the hounds of the law your foes to harry.
You with your 'Art for its own sake', posing and prinking;
You with your 'Live and be merry', eating and drinking;
You with your 'Peace at all hazard', from bright blood shrinking.
Fools! I will tell you now: though the red rain patters,
And a million of men go down, it's little it matters....
There's the Flag upflung to the stars, though it streams in tatters.
There's a glory gold never can buy to yearn and to cry for;
There's a hope that's as old as the sky to suffer and sigh for;
There's a faith that out-dazzles the sun to martyr and die for.
Ah no! it's my dream that War will never be ended;
That men will perish like men, and valour be splendid;
That the Flag by the sword will be served, and honour defended.
That the tale of my fights will never be ancient story;
That though my eye may be dim and my beard be hoary,
I'll die as a soldier dies on the Field of Glory.
So give me a strong right arm for a wrong's swift righting;
Stave of a song on my lips as my sword is smiting;
Death in my boots may-be, but fighting, fighting.
There's a graveyard near the White House
Where the Unknown Soldier lies,
And the flowers there are sprinkled
With the tears from mother's eyes.
I stood there not so long ago
With roses for the brave,
And suddenly I heard a voice
Speak from out the grave:
'I am the Unknown Soldier,
The spirit voice began
'And I think I have the right
To ask some questions man to man.
'Are my buddies taken care of?
Was their victory so sweet?
Is that big reward you offered
Selling pencils on the street?
'Did they really win the freedom
They battled to achieve?
Do you still respect that Croix de Guerre
Above that empty sleeve?
'Does a gold star in the window
Now mean anything at all?
I wonder how my old girl feels
When she hears a bugle call.
'And that baby who sang
Hello, Central, give me no man
Can they replace her daddy
With a military band?
'I wonder if the profiteers
Have satisfied their greed?
I wonder if a soldier's mother
Ever is in need?
'I wonder if the kings, who planned it all
Are really satisfied?
They played their game of checkers
And eleven million died.
'I am the Unknown Soldier
And maybe I died in vain,
But if I were alive and my country called,
I'd do it all over again.
He is known to the sun-white Majesties
Who stand at the gates of dawn.
He is known to the cloud-borne company
Whose souls but late have gone.
Like wind-flung stars through lattice bars
They throng to greet their own,
With voice of flame they sound his name
Who died to us unknown.
He is hailed by the time-crowned brotherhood,
By the Dauntless of Marathon,
By Raymond, Godfrey and Lion Heart
Whose dreams he carried on.
His name they call through the heavenly hall
Unheard by earthly ear,
He is claimed by the famed in Arcady
Who knew no title here.
Oh faint was the lamp of Sirius
And dim was the Milky Way.
Oh far was the floor of Paradise
From the soil where the soldier lay.
Oh chill and stark was the crimson dark
Where huddled men lay deep;
His comrades all denied his call
Long had they lain in sleep.
Oh strange how the lamp of Sirius
Drops low to the dazzled eyes,
Oh strange how the steel-red battlefields
Are floors of Paradise.
Oh strange how the ground with never a sound
Swings open, tier on tier,
And standing there in the shining air
Are the friends he cherished here.
They are known to the sun-shod sentinels
Who circle the morning's door,
They are led by a cloud-bright company
Through paths unseen before.
Like blossoms blown, their souls have flown
Past war and reeking sod,
In the book unbound their names are found
They are known in the courts of God!
I
Dry leaves, soldier, dry leaves, dead leaves;
voices of leaves on the wind that bears them to
destruction,
impassioned prayer, impassioned hymn of delight
of the gladly doomed to die. Stridor of beasts,
stridor of men, praises of lust and battle,
numberless as waves, the waves singing
to the wind that bears them down.
Under Osiris,
him of the Egyptian priests, Osynmandyas the King,
easward into Asia we passed, swarmed over Bactria,
three thousand years before Christ.
The history of war
is the history of mankind.
So many dead:
look at them there in the dark, look at them going,
the longest parade of all, the parade of the dead:
between then and now, seven thousand million dead:
dead on the filed of battle.
The people which is not ready
to guard its gods, and its household gods, with the
sword,
who knows but it will find itself with nothing
save honour to defend - ?
Consider, soldier
whatever name you go by, doughboy, dogface,
marine or tommy. God's mercenary – consider our lot
in the days if the single combat. You have been seen on the
seashore.
In the offshore wind blown backward, a wavecrest
windwhipped and quivering, borne helpless and
briefly
to fall underfoot of an oncoming seawall, foam-
smothered,
once more to recede, wind-thwarted again; thus
deathward
the battle lines whelmed and divided. The darkling
battalions
locked arms in chaos, the bravest, the heroes,
kept in the forefront' and this line once broken,
our army was done for.
II
In the new city of marble and bright stone,
the city named for a captain; in the capital:
under the solemn echoing dome, in the still tomb,
lies an unknown soldier.*
In the brown city,
old and shabby, by the muddy Thames, in the gaunt
avenue
where Romans blessed with Latin the oyster and the
primrose,
the stone shaft speaks of another. Those who pass
bare their heads in the rain, pausing to listen+
Across grey water, red poppies on cliffs and chalk.
Hidden under the arch, in the city of light,
the city beloved of Abelard rests a third,
nameless as those, but the fluttering flame
substituting for a name.
Three unknown soldiers:
three, let us say, out of many. On the proud arch
names shine like stars, the names of battles and
victories;
but never the name of the man, you, the unknown.
Down there runs the river, under dark walls of rock,
parapets of rock, stone steps that green to the water.
There they fished up in the twilight another unknown,
the one they call
L'Inconnue de la Seine
: drowned
hands,
drowned hair, drowned eyes, masked like marble she
listens
to the drip-drop secret of silence; and the pale eyelids
enclose and disclose what they know, the illusion
found like fire under Lethe. Devotion here sainted
the love here deathless. The strong purpose turns
from the daggered lamplight, from the little light to
the lesser,
from stone to stone stepping, from the nex-to-the-lasy
heartbeat and footstep even to the sacred, to the last.
Love: devotion: sacrifice: death: can we call her
unknown
who has not unknown to herself more? Whose love
lives still
as if death itself were alive and divine?
And you, the soldier
you who are dead: is it not so with you?
Love: devotion: sacrifice: death: can we call you
unknown,
you who knew what you did? The soldier is crystal:
crystal of man: clear heart, clear duty, clear purpose.
No soldier can be unknown. Only he is unknown
who is unknown to himself.
When the 'arf-made recruity goes out to the East
'E acts like a babe an' 'e drinks like a beast,
An' 'e wonders because 'e is frequent deceased
Ere 'e's fit for to serve as a soldier.
Serve, serve, serve as a soldier,
Serve, serve, serve as a soldier,
Serve, serve, serve as a soldier,
So-oldier ~OF~ the Queen!
Now all you recruities what's drafted to-day,
You shut up your rag-box an' 'ark to my lay,
An' I'll sing you a soldier as far as I may:
A soldier what's fit for a soldier.
Fit, fit, fit for a soldier . . .
First mind you steer clear o' the grog-sellers' huts,
For they sell you Fixed Bay'nets that rots out your guts --
Ay, drink that 'ud eat the live steel from your butts --
An' it's bad for the young British soldier.
Bad, bad, bad for the soldier . . .
When the cholera comes -- as it will past a doubt --
Keep out of the wet and don't go on the shout,
For the sickness gets in as the liquor dies out,
An' it crumples the young British soldier.
Crum-, crum-, crumples the soldier . . .
But the worst o' your foes is the sun over'ead:
You ~must~ wear your 'elmet for all that is said:
If 'e finds you uncovered 'e'll knock you down dead,
An' you'll die like a fool of a soldier.
Fool, fool, fool of a soldier . . .
If you're cast for fatigue by a sergeant unkind,
Don't grouse like a woman nor crack on nor blind;
Be handy and civil, and then you will find
That it's beer for the young British soldier.
Beer, beer, beer for the soldier . . .
Now, if you must marry, take care she is old --
A troop-sergeant's widow's the nicest I'm told,
For beauty won't help if your rations is cold,
Nor love ain't enough for a soldier.
'Nough, 'nough, 'nough for a soldier . . .
If the wife should go wrong with a comrade, be loath
To shoot when you catch 'em -- you'll swing, on my oath! --
Make 'im take 'er and keep 'er:  that's Hell for them both,
An' you're shut o' the curse of a soldier.
Curse, curse, curse of a soldier . . .
When first under fire an' you're wishful to duck,
Don't look nor take 'eed at the man that is struck,
Be thankful you're livin', and trust to your luck
And march to your front like a soldier.
Front, front, front like a soldier . . .
When 'arf of your bullets fly wide in the ditch,
Don't call your Martini a cross-eyed old bitch;
She's human as you are -- you treat her as sich,
An' she'll fight for the young British soldier.
Fight, fight, fight for the soldier . . .
When shakin' their bustles like ladies so fine,
The guns o' the enemy wheel into line,
Shoot low at the limbers an' don't mind the shine,
For noise never startles the soldier.
Start-, start-, startles the soldier . . .
If your officer's dead and the sergeants look white,
Remember it's ruin to run from a fight:
So take open order, lie down, and sit tight,
And wait for supports like a soldier.
Wait, wait, wait like a soldier . . .
When you're wounded and left on Afghanistan's plains,
And the women come out to cut up what remains,
Jest roll to your rifle and blow out your brains
An' go to your Gawd like a soldier.
Go, go, go like a soldier,
Go, go, go like a soldier,
Go, go, go like a soldier,
So-oldier ~of~ the Queen!
Since you were so young, child, I shall
Not fear your noon or even-fall,
Nor dread you are taken unawares,
Nor weary Heaven with many prayers.
I shall not wake at night afraid
Of where your darling head is laid,
Nor say: 'He finds the wind too rough,
Dear God!' for now the wind's left off.
I shall have ease though lightnings leap,
Nor hear the thunder in my sleep,
Nor dread the crying of the seas,
Nor any mountain precipice.
God pity her who lies awake
Unquiet for some darling sake!
Soft sleeps my little son to-night,
Where many stars make candlelight!
His sword is laid beside his knees;
God knows my little son hath ease --
And I, his mother, may go sleep
And pray for them who wake and weep.
It is not death
Without hereafter
To one in dearth
Of life and its laughter,
Nor the sweet murder
Dealt slow and even
Unto the martyr
Smiling at heaven:
It is the smile
Faint as a (waning) myth,
Faint, and exceeding small
On a boy's murdered mouth.
I have a toy soldier that sits high up on my shelf,
I'm not allowed to play with him, so he sits there by himself,
He looks so alone, yet so handsome and tall,
As he watches over me... fighting for us all. I wish that I could reach him, just to tell him that I care,
But, I am yet too small to reach him way up there,
Even though he can't hear me, I pray for him each night,
I pray for peace on earth..so he won't have to fight. As I grew taller and wiser, I begin to understand,
That the toy soldier upon my shelf was a picture of a man.
As I reached out for it, I was able to finally see
That the toy soldier that I admired...looked just like me. Our soldiers are not wooden, they have a family somewhere,
They have wives and children and parents who care,
And though they can't hear us, we pray each night
That our toy soldiers...won't have to fight.
To the memory of all who have fallen in war.
At the going down of the sun,
And in the morning …we will remember them
UNKNOWN SOLDIER
“Where have all the soldiers gone, ”
“Gone to graveyards everyone; ”
Peter Seeger’s sung melodies...
A grieving mother’s sad memories.
Our mother’s sons gone to war,
Repeated untold times before,
Gone to fight for kith and kin,
Each mother’s heart broken within.
Waiting for that ‘gram’ to arrive,
Your son is not coming home alive;
'Your son is missing presumed dead',
That is how those telegrams read.
Now buried deep, so far from home
Beneath some foreign turf and loam.
A Bayoneted rifle marks the hamlet,
Atop the butt, a mangled helmet,
No ‘dog tags’, neck laced identity,
An unmarked grave… for eternity.
Where is the sanity of it all,
Where is the sense of it all,
“When will we ever learn,
When… will we ever learn.”
Alf Hutchison
Brave Soldier wounded in Iraq,
Lost his Mate in the same attack.
Sent back home to the NHS;
Military Hospitals all closed now.
Welcome home, go to A&E,
Be patience Dear just join the queue.
Go over there to the waiting room,
Wait with the Drunks and the Addicts to.
No Uniform please in case it offends?
Welcome home my Soldier friend.
Lost a limb an Arm or a Leg,
Got badly Burned or Shot in the Head.
You‘ll get your Op be patient Dear,
Your back home now, so wait your turn.
Anyone check you for PTS,
Or Council about your friend’s sudden death.
Not British old boy, don’t be so silly,
Stiff upper lip, pull your self together.
Torn apart from your Comrades, ones you relied on,
The only ones who could understand.
Those who shared all the Trauma and Hardships,
The Dangers the Blood and the Fear.
Invalided out of the Army and back home now,
How lonely you feel with no one to share.
With no one to listen and no one to care,
About all of the things you saw while out there.
Got an appointment to see the Queen,
At Buckingham Palace no less.
In London today and feeling so proud,
Collecting his Medal for Bravery.
With Oxford Street close at hand,
He decides to visit the Shops.
Gets told to leave at one Famous Store,
“In case Uniform offends.”
For Queen and Country and a grateful Nation,
The Recruitment Sergeant said.
It’s nice to be back home again,
Where the Uniform offends.
Just home from War,
Broken, bruised, battered and scarred by horrors he has seen,
Now he’s back home and the Uniform offends? ? ? ?
Now that’s offensive to me.
Don’t agree with the War, that’s a point of view,
If you’re in the Armed Forces you go were you’re told.
Those who have Served deserve better than this,
Respect and care at the very least.
Welcome home Soldier from a Grateful Nation.
You're a father, mother, son,
daughter, brother or sister
Yet you are willing to give up
your life for our freedom
You are a friend and you
are family
This is your calling
It is what you are meant to do
You are a soldier
We constantly pray for you
to come home soon
We know that you are doing
your job
Thank you for all you do
Right now you are somewhere
in the world(Iraq or Afghanistan)
You are fighting for freedom
And we anxiously await your
return
This is your calling
It is what you are meant to do
You are a soldier
This is a thank you to the troops serving overseas right now.
(written in 2004 after I heard about a classmate of mine who is overseas)
Stay calm soldier
Do not panic
Stay calm soldier
And think of what you were taught
You're too young to die
My soldier
You're too young to leave
Run soldier
From the danger ahead
Run soldier
Don't be brave
You're too young to die
My soldier
You're too young to leave
Fight soldier
The enemy that fights you
Fight soldier
And make it though the day
You're too young to die
My soldier
You're too young to leave
Come home soldier
I miss you terribly
Come home soldier
To me and your family
You're too young to die
My soldier
Don't ever leave me
Sometimes the skies of tomorrow look bright
crystal blue and full of hope
telling you the best is on its way..
Sometimes the waters of yesterday seem black
showing nothing but the pain you've felt
the tears you've cried; the sorrow you're forced to hide..
Sometimes the world of Today seems revealing
granting you a moment of peace before you take your next step
allowing you for just this one heartbeat to let go.
A heart's sometimes like an arrow
That gets lost on its long turning on way
Or a flying high clouded lonesome sparrow
That not for long in the forest can stay
The seedlings of the passionate going songs
That grows on the heart to each sparkling give
And each new aspiring passion belongs
In its fulsome ways there to onward live
The colors of the truest summer blossom
The reddish with the pink shades between
The beauty of moments that kindle love's thought
Delicate and decent where roots are from
Each true compartment that can not be seen
In asking questions what love is and ought
if with memory remind those words,
unscheduled touch, that smell, dust
of the road, appointed out with duty,
I don't know
what we would find years later - perhaps
this absurd nonsensicality which a fate
gave us, but irreparable already now
mistake, which at one time was with choice
thought over, and maybe exactly something,
what we aren't able to live today without (?)
whether the time causes that we are still
but at least together, sometimes being
completely beside (?)
Sometimes i cry,
because i am on my own
The tears I cry R bitter and warm
they flow with life but take no form
I cry because my heart is torn,
and i find it difficult 2 carry on
I had an ear 2 confide in,
I would cry among my treasured friends
but who do you know that stops that long to help another carry on
the world moves fast and it would rather pass you by than 2 stop and C what makes you cry
It's painful and sad sometimes i cry and no one cares about why
Bring to this coldness new summer to live
Into the darkness that follows this road
Heavy as usual is its eclipse load
With nothing but panes frost roses to thrive
The laces of cold in the cracks of rime
Holding to moments of its dullness sky
Seeds that are trying to earth again shall die
Until again spring comes in its prime
Wish you sometimes want can't come through
For the new beginning is not in yet
To rise from yield of the summer blue height
But one day once more there will be the new
Coming to garden's bed with the right set
Turning the winter to summer night's light
- under construction -
It crept upon me slowly,
Of its presence I was unaware,
But because of all the changes,
I got a lot of stares.
'What's wrong with you? '
I heard several ask,
But an answer I could not provide.
Before I knew it, I had created a mask, to hide behind.
Someone else on the outside,
Why can't I be me?
I just don't want to hurt you,
Is that so hard to see?
I put up a wall,
Between me and you,
Hoping to break my fall,
But doing so only confused us all.
It was in my heart, yet also deeper within,
Why am I so empty inside?
I just want to run away and hide.
It's scaring me,
As is its job,
Attacking me,
Like an angry mob.
What is all this anger?
Where is it from?
Why am I so lonely?
Why do I feel so dumb?
I don't know what to do or say,
I keep to myself,
Other people-stay away.
I'm afraid of showing you,
How I really feel,
Who I really am,
Hurting you- of this I am afraid.
If I am myself,
Will you like me anyway?
If I speak my mind,
Will you make me go away?
I couldn't escape and locked myself inside,
But then one day I did decide
To get down on my knees and pray,
'Lord, what is this? Please, take it away! '
That helped some, but I needed more,
Open up, unlock the door.
I begged and pled
For it to leave,
But to my voice it would not heed.
For I was 'dead, '
sown was the seed,
Inside my head,
Done was the deed.
It's tearing at me from within,
And working its way out,
It's ready to succeed,
Of this there is no doubt.
I finally asked for help,
Even though I was afraid,
I poured out my heart,
And was recieved with grace.
True concern, encouraging words,
And then it was finally over,
Its presence I could deny.
And I thank God for my family,
And my friends so dear,
I thank Him for the body,
For holding me so near.
Now when I look back,
I'm glad those days are through,
I thank God for my peace,
And His love so true.
A black feather dances its way to wooden floors
I am buried in my sheets and unwilling to acknowledge you
Stubborn Daemon, you both bring and maculate dreams of her
Her face is lost somewhere between lucid and wake
What good are hollowed prophecies?
No sustenance, and nothing to gain
Only a frantic assurance that I one day will meet-
Her.
In passing, a glimpse will sop a tear
And I will hold her hand
A crowded street
The busiest marketplace
A solitary trail
Her, deserving of all my infinite kisses
I am aware of your labor and order
Know that I will love and hate you until I am gone
But promise me, dark shadow, now perched on splintered rafter
That you will not cease to bring me madness
You bring hope, ardent hope.
I feel like a train sometimes
that can't get no locomotin.'
My wheels lumber
and my Ideals get stuck
in sideways roller motions.
I feel like the moon sometimes
beautiful but dead.
Feel like thinking sometimes
but get tangled up in emotions.
Feel like a bird sometimes
remembering how to soar.
Feel like sleeping sometimes
and not getting up,
being in bed for a while.
Feel like Christmas when
someone gives me a smile.
Feel like feeling more
on certain days and times.
Feel like talking deep
and thinking light
laughing loud
and quiet.
Feel like feeling like
my best days
sometimes.
Feel like is feeling like
if a good poem rhymes
sometimes.
Feel like is feeling like
if the rhythm beats in time,
if my heart skips to music quips
and rejoins at the metered line.
Feel like
is feeling like
feeling is ok;
but feeling good or bad
without that like
is better;
well..
like superior.
Like ok?
I feel like nobody cares for me sometimes
My world is going to crush right now
Like a volcano that is erupting
I know sometimes you wonder,
Just how true are my intentions.
I know how you must ponder,
Just what are my motivations.
But these are things I thought you knew,
And thought you would never question.
The fact that I love you,
Should be known without mention.
You I have loved before I even knew what it was,
And I have drempt of you all my life.
Without a reason, or a cause,
And in every dream you was my wife.
For you I would do anything
As I have and always will
Just for the joy you bring
And I think thats a hell of a deal
Nolonger should you wonder,
Just how true are my intentions.
Nolonger should you must ponder,
Just what are my motivations.
In to the night my dreams go
Light that is mellow and falling
I have forgotten their glow
And each footstep strolling
Make me now happy tomorrow
Into their workings right
There must never be again sorrow
To a low hours flight
Dream must stay and never leave
Only be ours to give
Throw away here now its heave
Let's come together and live
Night felt so close sometimes
In to the dark and forgotten
Moments of well being climbs
From those steps often trottin'
Let it not happen again
Felling that lonesome gray
Then has my hope been in vain
Left every outlook astray
Night is sometimes like shelter
Giving its dark compassion
In to its many shadows welter
With voices of hope clashin'
- in the making -
Partly inspired by, When The Night lyric by Paul McCartney
it’s one of those monumental (nigh impossible)     tasks;
one of Hercules’ labors.
tougher still than those age old questions:
what is love?
or
how much wood could a woodchuck chuck…?
I just cannot put her face into words.
I have tried.
I have a trashcan almost full with
the crumpled thoughts that I deemed unworthy
of her perusal.
'a face so perfect, God dreams
of it in His sleep.
a face that makes me (and her mirror)     the envy of the angels,
the green brush of the Earth.
how she smiles, with the corners
of her mouth spread
like the corners of the sky,
allowing an attentive observer to see
all the majesty and mystery
of
the heavens in her mirth.'
or how I find her eyes so beautiful
and moving that 'they
border on
open heart surgery.'
blah, blah, goddamn blah
I’ve literally tossed away dozens
of verses like these,
I’ve almost given up trying.
it would be so much easier just to tape
a picture of her face to a
piece of paper.
I think that would do so much more justice than anything
I could write.
but, I think she prefers the creativity. oh well,
back to the drawing board...
hey, now there’s an idea!
708
I sometimes drop it, for a Quick—
The Thought to be alive—
Anonymous Delight to know—
And Madder—to conceive—
Consoles a Woe so monstrous
That did it tear all Day,
Without an instant's Respite—
'Twould look too far—to Die—
I sometimes wonder if the mighty God
Cares aught about the little deeds of men;
And if their day and time can reach his ken
Or raise their breath above the hungry sod.
Does He who lightly holds th' eternal rod,
Now taut, now loose, the threads of Why and When?
Giving passing heed--or be they one or ten--
To one-time flesh but now the wind-blown clod?
If men can die who never yet knew life,
And, smiling, hold it is no strange affair;
Or live when death were welcome boon of strife,
Torn, broken sheaves the ghostly reapers spare;
The saints must grieve for earthly sorrows rife,
And God must heed, yea surely, God must care.
183
I've heard an Organ talk, sometimes
In a Cathedral Aisle,
And understood no word it said—
Yet held my breath, the while—
And risen up—and gone away,
A more Berdardine Girl—
Yet—know not what was done to me
In that old Chapel Aisle.
Glorious long days
hang from the sun until dark,
beauty stacked upon beauty
and all of it for Love.
Vast prairie of day
with another one to follow,
the trees burning fires in the sky.
Time is a lazy, tame horse
and leisure a profession.
No imperative exists
but to drift like a cloud
through the sky of my day,
doing whatever I love.
How could I be so stupid?
To not see this coming
To not believe the people around me
He showed me the world
But I paid the price for falling in love
He was the school hottie and I was just the new girl
He smiled a danger smile
I just smiled a sly smile
When he first talked to me it was love at first sight
Until the day he snapped
He grabbed me by my waist chain when he saw me with Jonathan
When I got home there was a welt on my waist
He apologized over and over the next day and I forgave him
But it never changed how he treated me
People would see the bruises on me but I always had an excuse to protect him
Until the day he came up with a new way to “punish” me
He would bite me
Leaving marks on my arms and neck
That’s when my friend decided enough was enough
It was hard seeing him being dragged away
To see the only one you ever loved being dragged away from your life
I still love him no matter what he did
The scares are starting to go away
But the way he treated me and the way he so wrongly yelled
YOU WILL PAY FOR RATTING YOU STUPID B****
Will never leave my head
Even after all of this I still LOVE HIM
I wish my parents wouldn’t fight –
I feel like a cat curled up in a corner
With no one noticing it.
They act like robots out of control,
Moving clumsily, crashing gears,
Not like parents at all.
They sound like horrid black crows –
It would be ridiculous
If it wasn’t so serious.
When it’s a really bad fight
I feel bloodless and cold
Like a victim of Dracula.
When my parents fight
I'm really scared,
Because I think
They will divorce
Or separate
And leave me.
When I argue with my sister
it’s usually because
she cheats at cards,
But when my parents quarrel
It’s like unravelling
A ball of messed-up string-
Hard to find the start.
I think of words to help,
But they get tangled in my throat
And don’t come out.
I’d like to be a bear for a while,
And crawl into a hole
or hibernate for good,
Or run away
But usually I end up
Going to bed in my clothes
And lying awake instead.
They might not separate,
But I can’t be sure, can I?
Earthquakes happen now and then,
It’s the possibility I don’t like
As if something bad is tailing me
Or a sign was on my back
Saying
“My Parents Fight”
And everyone is staring.
314
Nature—sometimes sears a Sapling—
Sometimes—scalps a Tree—
Her Green People recollect it
When they do not die—
Fainter Leaves—to Further Seasons—
Dumbly testify—
We—who have the Souls—
Die oftener—Not so vitally—
Sometimes I can’t find what surrounds me
For it’s so vast in its everyday going to be
Full of its time’s from past gone memory
Stuck inside this love that once was free
Reaching to gray skies up high
Filling empty spaces that surrounds
Living for hours that die
Into the dreams that shall on fly
Onto the giving of notions that mounds
I felt I had somewhere to reach out and contact
Bring in those longings that age had blacked
Something once ready even if still in its intact
Living its emptiness that nothing could enact
Reaching to gray skies up high
Filling empty spaces that surrounds
Living for hours that die
Into the dreams that shall on fly
Onto the giving of notions that mounds
Oh sometimes I feel I’m lost there somewhere
A dream in dim mislaid without its day prayer
With only behaviors no one could prepare
Always so unfilled and always so unfair
Reaching to gray skies up high
Filling empty spaces that surrounds…
Here I am with my heart
Giving what I can give
Every peace moments whiles
So much giving from their smiles
I have you as you have me
Inside love and outside out
Everything most people talk about
I don’t want to show loneliness
Though it greets me every day
Sometimes I feel all with pleasure inside
While the shadows away will glide
Every friend indeed needs a friend
Giving their need and efforts lend
Sometimes I feel all with pleasure inside
While the shadows away will glide
Every friend indeed needs a friend
Giving their need and efforts lend
Here I am with my heart
Walking miles of inside roads
Feeling something to do or start
With every mood in down low loads
All my friends are just like this
Feelings lonely in what they miss
Sometimes I feel all with pleasure inside
While the shadows away will glide
Every friend indeed needs a friend
Giving their need and efforts lend
Here I am with my heart
Giving what I can give
Here I am with my heart
Walking miles of inside roads
Sometimes I keep on building high walls around me
Not to keep myself away
But to see who cares enough to break them all
Who cares enough to make them fall
Sometimes I keep on constructing barriers around my heart
Not to keep my heart safe
But to see who cares enough to start
Sometimes I keep myself inside a fence
Not as a defense
But rather to see who really feels me... who has enough sense
Sometimes I keep on creating obstacles for whoever wants me close
Not to play “hard to get”
But rather to know why am I the one he chose?
Sometimes I prefer to be isolated
Not to be lonely …
But rather to see who cares enough to come close and approach me
Sometimes I prefer to be remote
Not because of fear
But rather to see who cares enough to be near
Sometimes I prefer to keep the distance
Not to act arrogant
But rather to see who cares enough to be persistent
Sometimes I do not take any initiative
Not because I’m acting so protective
But to know to whom am I really attractive
Sometimes I intend to be passive
Not to show no interest
But to see who cares enough to be impressive
Sometimes I intend to be mysterious
Not because I want to look serious
But rather to see who cares enough to be curious
Sometimes I intend to be unsocial
Not to be rude
But rather to see to whom am I really special
Sometimes I keep on wearing masks hiding my real self
Not to pretend
But rather to see who will remove them in the end
Sometimes I keep all my secrets covered
To see to whom and how it will be discovered
Sometimes I lock my door
To see who is willing to explore
Who really cares enough to know me more
Sometimes … all the times ….
And until now I haven’t found the kind of care I need
I haven’t found that someone who cares enough to succeed
13 June 2006
Take my dreams give them something
I don't know
It's just love inside this
I'll have to show - have to show
Everybody is doing something
And I just know how to sing
Love is sometimes crazy
When it comes to me
And my thoughts get hazy
When they are set to be
Questions asked never are
What they sometimes seem
Everything stays afar
Like a delusional dream
Don't ask me why - I can't tell you
I don't have the answers
There are no certainties to go to
I often have a dream to feel my way
But dreams don't live to become true
I'll make decisions that are up to me
And give the dreams I know
I'll try to be what I can be
In times that come and go
Love is sometimes crazy
When it comes to me
And my thoughts get hazy
When they are set to be
Questions asked never are
What they sometimes seem
Everything stays afar
Like a delusional dream
Don't ask me why -
Love is sometimes crazy
I can't tell you any lie
I can't tell you any lie
Love is sometimes crazy
When it comes to me
And my thoughts get hazy
When they are set to be
Questions asked never are
What they sometimes seem
Everything stays afar
Like a delusional dream
Love is sometimes crazy
But gives so much
We are sometimes crazy
And out of touch
Sometimes crazy
And out of touch
*(I just thought I'd do some differnt 'flicks', now that the Grammy's are coming up in couple of days. This one is written for Seal) .
Sometimes I just sit quietly
and put my mind in neutral gear.
Set my imagination free
and wait for visions to appear
The visions which inspire me
to pick my pencil up and write.
About the dreamscapes I can see,
which I describe in black and white.
Though those who read my poetry
use their imagination to
visualise quite easily.
The scenes I try to share with you.
Sometimes I fail, sometimes succeed
in entertaining all who read.
24-Dec-07
Sometimes i have tantrums too
like i have
deeper depressions
sharper tongues like that of a
Philippine king cobra
willing to spit my venom
my fatal bite
to an innocent passer-by
we all have the breeding of some sphinx
traceable to the lines
of some Medusas and cyclops
and dragons
do not deny the nerves and veins
of the devil still clinging
to our flesh, running and so alive
we have all these sometimes
like some storms and tornadoes
and flash floods and
volcanic eruptions and
tsunamis.... the forces of nature
tattooed in our skins
stained in our brains
just give me time
while i write the poetry of anger, and madness and
hate,
do not even wait as i simmer down to indifference
leave me alone
in my destructive destinations
wait, and wait some more
if you have love at all,
let me go, let me vent, let me shout, let me explode
for tonight
when the moon is full, i lay tired on the grass by the
tranquil pool,
still trees, cool but undisturbed by any ripple
when all these pass,
come, share a drink with me
come, let us again talk in whispers
then some smiles
then a loud laughter
we shall be
always together, when all these bad things are over
Sometimes I can walk away,
Turn the other cheek and
Find joy in the lilies of
Life's wide field-
But in the passage of Time
The pace of growing Seasons,
reality sows hardness
Like looming mountains-
Granite weight builds upon
My sinking shoulders,
And what is a gift is set aside
As burden-
Suddenly, halting by faith's pull,
Reaching for the altar within,
And placing my small offering
Upon prayer's perfect shield-
The bandages fall and reveal
New Light from the east,
Bursting in priceless gold.
And slanting my Self to Him-
The Bread melts into my
Soul, as pure substance-
Filling the need to be,
more, more than just Human-
jThe water beckons clear, 'drink'
And taking the tiny paper cup
To my thirsting lips He enters,
Giving me the Forgiveness meal.
sometimes my friend
i close my eyes to see
what i have not seen
inside the domains of
my heart
and then i open them again
to see what blinded me
there is so much light
to some things that i daily see
and have not seen realistically.
Sometimes I fear, I am losing my mind
When I find myself talking to myself
I need something better to heal the pain
Writing about it is no longer enough
There's nothing left for me on which to rely
There's no one around to cry if I cry
Nobody cares for hearing my crazy life's song
Nobody cares whether I am right or wrong
There’s only me
I sing to me in the night sitting here alone
Closest to me are the moon and the stars
Dancing with me are the leaves, the grasses
I see another shooting star to wish up on
Just a silent prayer, for a better day
This strange place won't have me
Where is the Love? !
Sometimes I feel you
Your presence
Tickling my neck
Sometimes I feel you
Waking up
Feeling my Sweat drip
I saw you
Sometimes I reach for you
My hand stretching
My muscles stiffening
I cannot get to you
Sometimes I talk to you
My eyes closed
In the middle of the night
When my body sleeps
And my mind does not
Sometimes I feel you
Dripping from the sky
You are lonely
You seem sad
You bring weather
That makes my bones weak
Sometimes I feel you
Through my window
Gently stroking the blinds
Sometimes I hear you
Whistling through the air
Creating a tornado of despair
Sometimes I grieve for you
Your life was too short
When you left this world
I wasn't even born
But, you are not a stranger
You are my angel
And when you cry
You bring rain
And when you smile
The clouds move
Like your lips do
And the sunshine peaks through
Sometimes I feel you
Through black and white pictures
Your eyes gazing at me
Seeing the creation your daughter has made
You try hard to smile
Behind a garden
You have tamed
Only soon
Your garden will no longer be in your hands
Your eyes dry up
Your flowers dry up
Your hands no longer tame gardens on Earth
Sometimes I feel you
Through my mothers garden
Sometimes I taste you
Through my mothers recipes
Sometimes I see you
Through my mothers eyes
Sometimes
I loose
My train of thoughts
And I wonder where
I am
Because
I Know that
I do that
All the time
Sometimes in life
You find a special friend
Someone who changes your life
Just by being part of it
Someone who makes you laugh
Until you can’t stop
Someone who makes you believe
That there really is good in the world
Someone who convinced you
That there really is an unlocked door
Just waiting for you to open it
This is forever friendship
When you’re down
And the world seems dark and empty
Your forever friend lifts you up in spirit
And makes that dark and empty world
Suddenly seem bright and full
Your forever friend gets you through
The hard times, the sad times
And the confused times
Your forever friend holds you hand
And tells you that
Everything is going to be ok.
And if you find such a friend
You feel happy and complete
Because you need not to worry
You have a forever friend for life
And forever has no end
Sometimes in Life
Sometimes in life, I wonder just what I'm doing?
The energy's there, but the trouble is brewing.
I seem to have, no control of myself,
I just turned away, now I'm with someone else.
The days just fly by, yet there's so much to do.
I look to a face, to just pull me through.
Time just can't wait, so it just marches on.
All of the things, just, seem to be wrong?
Just turned my back and everything's gone...........
Sometimes in life, I don't believe what I see.
Are all of these things, just part of me?
I pick up the pieces, but some seem to be missing,
I look for the answers, but it feels like I'm guessing?
Sometimes in life, you can't get what you need.
You feel so empty, yet there's nothing to feed.
Your soul feels so empty, nothing can fill the hole.
It's hard to find direction, when you just don't know.
Sometimes in life, I think I know my way?
It's just around the corner, I might make it today?
Though things seem hopeless, there's always faith,
Carries me back, to a place that is safe.
Sometimes in life, there seems something better.
But the rain just comes and you just get wetter.
Things always appear better, on the other side.
At least until you get there, then you must hide.
Sometimes in life, I just wanted the truth.
But it was surrounded by lies and they just got loose.
The answers don't match, the questions I find.
Uncertainty robs, my peace of mind..............
Sometimes In Supplication
Sometimes in supplication,
Or just in earnest prayer,
I kneel beside my bed, and then
I feel Him lift my care.
But other times I’m lying,
Cradled snugly in my bed,
When joyfilled words of thanks I raise
By thoughts within my head.
What comfort, this, to realize
No matter what the case,
He sees and He does not despise
The position or the face.
Sometimes my weary eyelids
Force me into sleep
Before my prayer is ended,
Without my thanks complete.
Then, when I wake refreshed once more,
I thank Him once again
That what was hours of sleep to me
Was just a pause to Him.
Sometimes I wished I could fly,
Fly so high up in the sky.
Sometimes I wonder why,
I even eat pie!
But that just isn't it,
We all throw fits.
But none of us resist.
Sometimes girls like us fight over boys,
Just because we want them as toys.
But why? They're just boys
Sometimes I just get so sad,
That all I am is bad.
Does this just mean I have had,
Soemthing very extremely bad,
Sometimes I...
Written By: Tissa Calvert
4-28-08
Sometimes I pray before I sleep;
Sometimes I pray, the lord; my soul to keep,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray in the morning;
Sometimes I pray for those in mourning,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray for rain;
Sometimes I pray for nomore pain,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray before i eat;
Sometimes I pray for good bread and meat,
Sometimes I pray.....
Sometimes I pray, my baby; that you'll stay;
But only sometimes for these things do I pray,
For I talk to my Lord everyday...
from lads
explicating their own profundities
on a grain of rice
as if there were actually profundities
but missing the authentic
profundities.
Tricks
teetering on the head of a pin
because who cares
in the absence
of love.
Sometimes I just sit and ponder,
what the true meaning of lifes all about;
Try and figure out my insucurites,
and the reason Im so full of doubt,
Maybe Im too hard on myself,
with the pressure I apply from within;
Maybe I want too much to fast,
here comes doubt creeping in again.
How can I find a balance in life,
where I float with an even keal?
Not worring about the future,
or losing for life its zeal?
And sometimes it happens that you are friends and then
You are not friends,
And friendship has passed.
And whole days are lost and among them
A fountain empties itself.
And sometimes it happens that you are loved and then
You are not loved,
And love is past.
And whole days are lost and among them
A fountain empties itself into the grass.
And sometimes you want to speak to her and then
You do not want to speak,
Then the opportunity has passed.
Your dreams flare up, they suddenly vanish.
And also it happens that there is nowhere to go and then
There is somewhere to go,
Then you have bypassed.
And the years flare up and are gone,
Quicker than a minute.
So you have nothing.
You wonder if these things matter and then
As soon you begin to wonder if these things matter
They cease to matter,
And caring is past.
And a fountain empties itself into the grass.
There he sits,
Listening and talking
About things I neither care for
Or make any attempt
to pay attention to.
Referencing his business methodology,
he congratulates himself at
the skills he has so cleverly defined.
I yawn
And attempt to stay awake.
8 months down I think,
4 to go.
Hang in there, David.
There they sit
Conference call
After conference call
Making plans about nothing
Ado
To do
To done
To did
To never did at all.
And I wag my finger
Because here I sit,
Attempting to stay awake
so to grasp
the chain
that I once called a dream.
Here we sit,
Revolving doors
And pushup chairs
Swiveling
Swilling
Swatting
Sw earing
And missing out,
Oh how we miss out.
Because all we know
Is that while we sit,
And we talk,
Feigning importance
And shuffling ideas
Of roads
upon rows;
we find castles,
That lead to nowhere.
And
There I sit,
one kind,
of a kind,
of empty little road,
Driven by
headless horsemen carriages.
No dreams
Just a 401k,
a stall,
And detail men.
But still I sit
Somewhere,
Behind a gate,
Over a fence
to a chain,
which gracelessly
leads to
a cemetery.
Here I sit.
Oh,
how I sit.
Copyright (c)       David DeSantis
Sometimes it takes a tragedy
to help us see things clear,
and then we get a glimpse of life
without our loved ones here.
The busy days of real-life
go by with such a flash
and then you're in the hospital...
the whole world seems to crash.
We've dodged another bullet.
We're given one more day.
Let's make a promise to ourselves
to not forget to say...
Your breath comes forth just for me,
your lungs still rise and fall.
I'll always be beside you
with just a simple call.
The heat from you while sleeping
can take away my chills.
The way you keep me laughing
and showing me new thrills.
I know our days are numbered.
It has to end one day.
Please let it be many years from now
when one of us goes away.
Sometimes, I want to cry.
Sometimes, I want to die.
Most times, I just ask why.
Why does it always happen this way?
Why is she always greater than me?
Why doesn't it get better?
Sometimes, I wish I would die.
Sometimes, I just want to cry.
I always ask myself why.
Why does she get to be free?
Why is she so much better than me?
Most of all, why does she always lie to me?
Sometimes I wish I could
Break the barriers
And free myself from this golden cage
And become a free bird
Free of the worries of the haunting past
And of the unknown future
Flying in the vast sky
Sans any pains or sorrows
Sometimes I wish I could
Rest in the soft clouds
Freeing my heart of the burdens
And become weightless
And floating with the clouds
Quenching my thirst
With the chilled droplets
Forgetting all my rage and anger
Sometimes I wish that I didn't feel like this
that my heart didn't control me the way it does
that everytime i saw your face I didn't smile
That your very laugh didn't warm my heart
that i could just leave, walk away
that you meant nothing to me
but you do, you mean so much
everyday it grows even stronger than before
it's forceful more than I ever thought i could endure
it's confusing and I don't know why
Happiness and pain reside
tears and laughs fill
too much to keep still
Somtimes I wish I were braver
that my fear didn't hold me back from what i wanted to do
that i could say what i really want
is you
Sometimes i wish, not to be in love
don't wanna get committed, wanna fly like free dove.
Sometimes i wish, not to get marry
don't wanna be in a relationship, that i can't carry.
Sometimes i wish, not to be nice
but my heart says, that isn't wise.
Sometimes i wish, not to worry
but when situation gets tough, mind stops working in a hurry.
Sometimes i wish, not to loose control
i should practice meditation, calmness should be my goal.
Sometimes i wish, not to play with emotions
but that i do unconsciously, now i'll take more caution.
Sometimes i wish, not to feel down
people love smiling faces, not the 1 which is frown.
Sometimes i wish, not to cry
forget that damned past, at least 1 should try.
Sometimes i wish, not to work too hard
but then i change my mind, because its gonna give me later on great reward.
Sometimes i wish, not to pray
but to feel attached to the Almighty, this is the only way.
Sometimes i wish, not to weep
that's not a solution, i just need to breathe deep.
Sometimes i wish, not to play in the rain
but that I do, just to hide my tears and pain.
Sometimes i wish, not to hide my tears
but thats gonna hurt my love, which my heart fears.
Sometimes i wish, i could forget my haunting past
1 should remember good things, only sweet memories are meant to be last.
Sometimes i wish, not to study
but then nothing else will help secure a career, buddy.
Sometimes i wish, i wish him to be mine
but hes already engaged, and coveting is a crime.
Sometimes i wish, to slit my wrist with a knife
but there are other people too who love me so much, then why to end up my life.
Sometimes i wish, not to flirt
what if others got serious, then they might get hurt.
Sometimes i wish, not to eat
but i need energy to do work, else i'll get weak.
Sometimes i wish, i wish to be alone
but the very next moment, such thoughts are gone.
Sometimes i wish, i wouldn't have wished
but without wishing, even this poem couldn't have finished.
Sometimes when the days and nights that separate us
Stretch out, an endless void
When the distance becomes torturous
The ache, unbearably real
And the embrace of cold air
Cuts deeper than a knife
I begin to wonder how will I get through
This day, this week, this month without you
Why do our souls entwine wondrously,
When we can’t meet
Why do our bodies yearn so longingly,
When the simplest touch is denied
Yes ours is a bonding of souls
In this life, our bodies far removed
But in every life, we will seek each other
Ceaselessly journeying together
On this path, with petals strewn over stones
Finding love, as the light grows.
Sometimes I wonder why I feel I
what I feel
whether it is pain, sadness,
joy or madness
Why must I feel it all so deeply
emotions on a never ending
circle filled with blue and gray
Light trickling in at its own
convenience to play
Is this the destiny for which we
create our won existence or can
we change the circles to squares
Triangles or octagons
with a brighter beginnings and
visible ends
A life with meaning
pleasurable and rewarding
Without oppression, suggestion
or reprimand
Is this the reality of the
Conclusion of our lives
or merely the beginning of
destiny.
Sometimes I wonder if you guess
The deep impassioned tenderness
Which overflows my heart;
The love I never dare confess;
Yet hard, yea, harder to repress
Than tears too fain to start.
Sometimes I ponder, O my sweet,
The things I'll tell you when we meet;
But straightway at your sight
My heart's blood oozes to my feet
Like thawing waters in the heat,
Confused with too much light.
I hardly know, when you are near,
If it is love, or joy, or fear
Which fills my languid frame;
Enveloped in your atmosphere,
My dark self seems to disappear,
A moth entombed in flame.
Sometimes I wonder,
Will I come through?
Can I make it to the other side?
And also, will you?
As I walk through the rain,
I can count on a few,
And when sometimes they leave me,
I wonder, should I pursue?
God didn’t promise,
As I walk through this life,
Skies without clouds,
Or storm without quiet.
Maybe someday, I’ll understand,
When I’m coming up to
The end of this land.
The day is approaching,
I know the time is near,
When the end of all things
Will end all things here.
Asking myself this,
What still will be left?
Can all this nothingness,
And this worldly mindset,
Be pleasing to the one,
Who made the sun rise and set?
Why do they taunt?
And say, “You are wrong”?
When my king is coming and theirs
Lies underground.
Mine conquered death,
Theirs only died,
Mine lives again
Theirs, death has tied.
My silent prayer,
Comes from the heart,
Lord save these people,
And can I be a part?
Be a part of your plan,
To change many hearts,
For the kingdom that lasts,
Has neither end nor start.
And as you also
Walk through the storm,
Remember what it’s about,
Who you are living for.
Not for this world,
Nor mans empty gain,
You are living for him,
Who restored your soul again.
Unrequited Love
Sometimes I wonder why I go on loving you
This way…
Words of a song that is a recurring decimal to me.
On my return from an extended visit I became ill
The cure was lie with my parents
74 & 75
To feel secure and comfortable.
This is gnawing feeling
To be secure and comfortable.
To know that someone cares for me the way I do
At 32 up to 74 and more.
Why do I go on feeling this way? ....
The embrace of an arm at night
The warmth that emanates from glances
The gentle touches as hands brush when we pass.
The silence shared
The bickering
The share power of communicating.
Still I wonder why, I go on loving you this way.
Each day another test
Each day another life time moment lost.
Each day life grows shorter
Each day I long for this lover.
My throat/chokes
My eyes swell
I am full
Little streams flow
Once again
When will this be over?
I want 32 to 74 and more.
The beauty I see
I witness
Between 74,75
Love between my parents is better than …..(sign)
I don’t really wonder why I go on feeling this way
It’s love.
But is it UNREQUITED LOVE?
It’s like a recurring decimal
I fall between the cracks
Just another sad song
Drinking up the night in a lonely room
So the songwriter says
I say
ENOUGH
I Want More
We deserve to grow old together
He only lives for work and drinking for these are his passions in life
And when he goes home from the local he argues with Betty his wife
She no longer cooks him his supper she tells him you can help yourself
In the fridge you'll find eggs and bacon and there's coffee
and tea on the shelf.
Their marriage as such it is over they live in the same house that is all
though Betty will talk of the good days when happier times she recall,
When their children were growing up in the sixties and Joe had drink under control
Until the love between them faded and boredom of their marriage took toll.
When asked how come she still lives with him? she says where I live I will stay
I'm sixty five years on a pension and my hair is silvery gray
And though we live under the same roof and we argue almost every day
There's nothing of love left between us we have gone our separate way.
Sometimes love does not last a lifetime despite what the romantics might say
And the story of Joseph and Betty is a story of love in decay,
He once showed her lots of affection but that was a long time ago
And though they live under the same roof no love left between her and Joe.
Sometimes…..I travel back to my past,
Down the memory lanes.
I find myself alone, lost in vain,
I see myself struggling, to live in this world,
With pain in my heart, that I could never tell in words.
I looked for a shoulder, which could give me support,
But no one heard me and passed on to their roads,
Than you walked in, with a wonderful smile,
This gave me strength and love for life,
The touch of your hand and your talking eyes,
Made me sure, it is you for whom my heart cries.
Sometimes…I look in to my present,
With my eyes wide open,
‘cause I never thought it would happen,
My worries have gone & I have lost my pain,
All I’ve got is luv and your smile like a Summer Rain,
The power of love and the strength of your words,
Has made me eager to live in this world,
Smile on your lips and happiness in your eyes,
This is all where my world lies.
Sometimes….I look in to the future
With dreams in my eyes,
Kissing your lips at every sunrise
I see you with me wrapped in my arms,
Giving you love and all the charms,
‘cause you are the one who has changed my life,
So I always dream you as my loving wife,
Now I always wish to forget my past,
& luv you forever until my breath last,
I pray to God may my dreams come true,
& I could always tell that “I Love You”.
Sometimes, you are too happy,
Sometimes, you are unlucky.
Sometimes, you wish
Sometimes, you punish
Sometimes, you pray for others,
Sometimes, others pray for you.
Sometimes, someone likes you,
Sometimes, someone hates you,
Sometimes, you are so cute,
Sometimes, you are so rude
Sometimes, you win,
Sometimes, you loose
Sometimes, you want to do,
Sometimes, you don’t want to do
Sometimes, something
Sometimes, nothing
(Ahmadponting)
Sometimes I'll laugh at your stupid jokes
Sometimes, only sometimes
Sometimes I'll pout and walk about
Sometimes, only sometimes.
Sometimes I'll face the day with shame
Sometimes the only one to blame is
No one. Sometimes, only sometimes.
And sometimes I am what I appear to be
Sometimes, only sometimes.
Sometimes I see what you can not see.
Sometimes, only sometimes.
Sometimes I'm the fool
Sometimes I'm the tool
Sometimes I believe what I can not percieve is cool
As do you.
Sometimes, only sometimes
Though my actions and thoughts may be erratic
They are but as nature intended
Inspiration, emotion, both love and devotion
My sometimes, become mended
And in the joining is formed a spirit as pure as the Gods do allow
As threads we connect and our sometimes reflect our here, our forever, our now.
Sometimes you laugh,
Sometimes you cry,
Sometimes you don't even know why.
Sometimes you smile,
Sometimes you frown,
Sometimes I don't know if you feel up or down.
Sometimes you're with me,
Sometimes you're not,
But still, always, I love you a lot.
Sometimes it rains in deserts,
Sometimes it snows in June,
Sometimes a burning sun
Is cooled behind the moon.
Sometimes a classic's written,
Sometimes a poem's sung,
Sometimes the wisest words
Are spoken by the young.
Sometimes the treasure's golden,
Sometimes the victory's won,
Sometimes the road not taken
Is where the path begun.
Sometimes when all is rotten,
Sometimes when hope is gone,
Sometimes your foe is worthy
And helps you carry on.
Sometimes a miracle happens,
Sometimes the fear's misplaced,
Sometimes the hope that's lost
Is once again embraced.
Sometimes our tears are happy,
Sometimes the hate undone,
Sometimes the chains are broken
And the world stands up as one.
Sometimes I do not know where I am going.
Sometimes I have no idea where I have been.
Sometimes life is all about the knowing.
And I wonder will I ever win.
Sometimes this road it feels so long.
Sometimes I feel I can see the end.
Sometimes I fall and tumble in my choice of right from wrong.
And I wonder with you will my heart mend.
Sometimes this food does not fill me.
Sometimes this liquor does not numb.
Sometimes I am so lost and lonely.
And I wonder without you will I succumb.
Sometimes I know what I am doing.
Sometimes I barely have a clue.
Sometimes I fall to my knees weeping.
And I wonder will my search ever find you.
Sometimes, I'm a little rude, but just sometimes
Sometimes, I guess I can be creative, but just sometimes
Sometimes, I feel on top of the world, but only sometimes
Sometimes, I feel like I'm all alone, but only sometimes
Sometimes, my life is spiraling out of control, but really, sometimes
Sometimes, my heart, I swear stops beating, but then again, sometimes
Sometimes, my heart is so full it could burt, but just sometimes
Sometimes, I feel like I've got it under control, but only sometimes
Sometimes, I truly know you love me, but just sometimes
But, my love, with all of my heart, mind, and soul. Forever and for always, I'll always love you
Sometimes I feel alive,
Sometimes I feel dead,
Sometimes my heart aches,
Sometimes it’s all in my head.
Sometimes I feel lonely,
Sometimes I need my space,
Sometimes nothing happens,
Sometimes I’ve too much to face.
Sometimes things go right,
Sometimes things go wrong,
Sometimes I fit right it,
Sometimes I just don’t belong.
Sometimes I make decisions,
Sometimes I’m told what to do,
Sometimes I find life hard,
Sometimes so do you.
Sometimes the fairies run out from the stories. Recently I’ve met one at a bar counter shivering in front of a tonic gin. You come close to her and whisper in her ears:
“This happened to me too.”
Sometimes I think, just maybe I miss you
The way you were overly concerned,
The way you just couldn’t be away from me,
The way you always listened to everything I said,
Sometimes I think I miss that
Sometimes I think, just maybe I love you
The way we can talk about anything,
The way you smile, like you haven’t a care in the world,
The way I can’t seem to let you go,
Sometimes I think I love that
Sometimes I think, just maybe I like you
The way everyone thinks you’re dumb when you’re not
The way you surprise me when you say things
The way you’re so awkwardly cute
Sometimes I think I like that
Sometimes I think, just maybe I’m meant to be alone
Meant to always search for love but never find it
Meant to be content all by myself
Meant to cry at every romance movie
Sometimes I think I’m meant for me and only me
And sometimes I think, just maybe I’m wrong.
Sometimes I'm up
Sometimes I'm down
Sometimes I smile
Sometimes I frown
Depends on what I've done
Depends on who I've seen
Depends if you are nice
Depends if you are mean
Sometimes I'm clever
Sometimes I'm thick
Sometimes I endeavour
Sometimes I retreat
Depends on who I'm talking to
Depends on what I say
Depends on how I'm feeling
Depends if I'm too weak
Sometimes I'm happy
Sometimes I'm sad
Sometimes I want to change
Sometimes I want to be me
Depends on those around me
Depends upon the news
Depends if I'm helpless
Depends who else I could be
Sometimes it is said,
We are only given what we can handle,
Is this true?
Sometimes what we are given is so overwhelming,
I can't believe it's true.
Is the pain and hurt more than we can handle?
Sometimes I wonder,
Would I leave more hurt than I feel?
That is the question,
What is the answer?
What is the release?
Sometimes I want to laugh
Sometimes I want to cry
Sometimes I get bad
Sometimes I have to lie
Sometimes I watch the sun
Sometimes I watch the rain
Sometimes I feel the joy
Sometimes I feel the pain
Sometimes I am fine
Sometimes I get lonely
Sometimes I need friends
Sometimes I need you only
Sometimes I like to talk
Sometimes I like to write
Sometimes I seem weak
Sometimes I use all my might
But guess what...
It just be like that sometimes!
Sometimes I walk without seeing
Sometimes I see without knowing,
Sometimes I live without learning
And sometimes I learn without showing.
And sometimes I pay no attention
To what lies on the road ahead,
And sometimes I just rush in
Where the angels fear to tread.
Sometimes I listen real well
To words that my soul speaks,
And sometimes I dont hear reason
When my heart is feeling weak.
Sometimes when it rains
I see the sound that it makes,
And sometimes it floods my heart
Because of my mistakes.
And sometimes when it snows
I hear it's gentle sound,
As it falls like silent thunder
Everywhere upon the ground.
And sometimes when I see you
I think I'm really seeing me,
Because sometimes life's not really
All it would seem to be.
Sometimes instead it's all gone
Sort of topsy turvey,
And sometimes right or wrong
Is not as clear as day.
Sometimes it all gets muddled
From black and white to gray,
And sometimes that path to righteousness
Just doesn't lead the way.
Then sometimes before I know it
I find me standing in the light,
Because sometimes when I get lost
You're there to set me right.
And sometimes when I think
That all in my life is gone
I look and see you standing
Waiting there within the dawn.
And sometimes when I'm feeling
That I'm running out of time,
You're love helps me see
That I can run to you sometimes........
And sometimes you will save me
And keep me safe from harm,
But sometimes you'll just guide me
And lead me by the arm.
To show me that just sometimes
I need to make my way,
And that sometimes all you can do
Is watch me falter as you pray.
For sometimes lessons learned
Come about in the hardest ways,
So that sometimes in myself
I can learn to be amazed.
But sometimes you will hold me
And at others set me free,
So that sometimes I can find my way
Back to loving me
Sometimes we must get hurt in order to grow
We must fail in order to know
Sometimes our visions,
Clear only after our eyes are washed away with tears
When pain is caused by those we call peers
It is sometimes needy to stand tall
Even when we are pushily pulled to fall
To raise that unwanted we want the world of happiness
It is sometimes through hope, trust and perseverance
Perfect was not the one who came first
But that same one whom strived for the best
Mohale o tswa maroleng
Sometimes i want to laugh
Sometimes i want to cry
Sometimes i want to live
Sometimes i want to die
Sometimes i want to run
Sometimes i want to hide
But it's not only sometimes i want you here
I always want you here by my side
Sometimes i want to sing
Sometimes i want to shout
Sometimes i know the answer
Sometimes i'm in doubt
Sometimes i'm happy
Sometimes i'm sad
But it's not only sometimes i need you
I always need you
Sometimes i want to win
Sometimes i want to lose
Sometimes i listen to music
Sometimes i watch the news
Sometimes i make mistakes
Sometimes my heart aches
But it's not only sometimes i love you
I always love you!
Sometimes I’m up,
Sometimes I’m down,
Sometime I even wear a crown.
Of this I know for certain,
I will be there for the final
Curtain.
sometimes you just dont want to talk to anyone
sometimes you dont want to hear anything
sometimes you cant do anything right
sometimes you dont want to feel anything
sometimes all you feel is pain
sometimes you dont want to see anything
sometimes you dont want anybody to look at you
sometimes you want to be alone
sometimes you dont want to live
sometimes you just cant take life anymore
sometimes you just want it to end
sometimes you just want to stop
sometimes........ is all the time for me
Sometimes i feel like im left out,
sometimes.
Sometimes I don't like my life,
just sometimes.
Sometimes I feel like the world
should be different,
but only sometimes.
Sometimes I feel creative,
just sometimes.
Sometimes I just think there's a missing piece,
only sometimes.
Sometimes I feel like people don't like me,
just sometimes.
Sometimes I feel like the world is after me,
but just only sometimes
Sometimes Sometimes Sometimes
Sometimes saying I'm sorry means more then I love you.
Sometimes holding hands means more then making love with you.
Sometimes its hard when loves so strong a cord.
Sometimes its easy to forget,
Sometimes its easy to desire to be adored.
Sometimes we overlook the weaknesses that we have.
Sometimes it makes us happy,
Sometimes it makes us sad.
Sometimes we remember that it is OK to mad.
Sometimes we reflect and are just glad to have a path.
Sometimes we drift,
Sometimes we fall.
Sometimes we heal.
Sometimes we loose it all.
Sometimes it doesn't matter.
Sometimes everything's OK.
Sometimes is like what ever,
Sometimes we just need to say get
away.
Sometimes I will linger and you will do the same.
And yet as always,
Sometimes we wake up and its a brand new day.
sometimes i feel
so stupid and so stupid
that i like being called stupid
by other stupid people out
there who think that
they are not stupid
sometimes i like to laugh
at myself and call myself
crazy and behave like i
am crazy and then suddenly
a man comes next to me
and asks me
why am i happy?
i think he is not stupid anymore.
Sometimes I wish I never met u so that I wouldn't cry when I miss u
Sometimes I wish I never saw u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't find u
Sometimes I wish I never heard u so that I wouldn't cry when I think I lost u
Sometimes I wish I never touched u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't feel u
Sometimes I wish I never made u laugh so that I never cry when I can't see u smile
Sometimes I wish I never left u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't come back to u
Sometimes I wish I never said I love u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't be with u
Sometimes I wish I never hugged u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't touch u
Sometimes I wish I never kissed u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't sing for u
Sometimes I wish I never had hands so that I wouldn't cry when I can't write to u
Sometimes I wish I never was born so that I wouldn't cry when I can't die with u
Sometimes I wish I never was me so that I wouldn't cry when there is no u
Sometimes I wish I never knew life so that I wouldn't cry when I can't go with u
Sometimes I wish I never had u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't have u
Sometimes I wish I never had a dream so that I wouldn't cry when I can't dream about u
Sometimes I wish I never heard u say I love u so that I wouldn't cry when I can't say it back to u
Sometimes I wish I never go to sleep so that I wouldn't cry when I can't be beside u
Sometimes I wish I never could have walked so that I never cry when I can't walk to u
Sometimes I wish I never had hands so that I wouldn't cry when I can't reach u
Sometimes I wish I never been with u so that I wouldn't cry when am not with u
Sometimes I wish I never learned how to cry so that I wouldn't cry every time I think of u
Sometimes I wish I never was poor so that I wouldn't cry when I can't buy a gift for u
Sometimes I wish I never was born here so that I wouldn't cry when I can't travel to meet u
Sometimes I wish I never knew how big the world is so that I wouldn't cry when I know I can't find u
Sometimes I wish I never had a tongue so that I wouldn't cry when I can't talk to u
Sometimes I wish I never knew time so that I wouldn't cry when I count the time am far from u
Some such things I say when my mind is ablaze
When I have sweet dream or a horrifying nightmare
When an angel meets me or my body breaks with desire
When I am drunk with wine or some haunting memory
When love could have been around me to see me waiting
So long my feet grow roots like trees waiting for birds
In vegetation now I harness longer the east longer the west
Down your path my eyes tired seeing your steps and one day
I shall follow as I saw you the moment when you rose up as if
Touching feet looking deep in my eyes to see signs of autumn
Lest I may not love some one else so intensely again
That sometimes I want to forget you even if it means
Forgetting myself that has lived the torments of your love
17/2/2009
Sometimes she wants nothing but to hide,
and sometimes she holds everything inside,
sometimes she wants to runaway,
and sometimes she thinks things will be ok,
sometimes she wishes she was some one else,
she really does she hates herslef,
sometimes she wants to disappear,
and sometimes she thinks she dose nothing but fear,
sometimes she wants to be alone,
and sometimes she dosn't want to go home,
sometimes she wishes for her life to end,
and sometimes she wishes her  life was pretend,
sometimes she thinks she has nothing to live for,
and sometimes she thinks she needs more,
sometimes she thinks her life will get better,
and sometimes she thinks it will stay bad forever,
sometimes she thinks this all she can do,
is write poems to help her through.
Sometimes I feel my life’s just a big nightmare
Sometimes I wish I could stand up to my greatest fear
Sometimes I wish it all were new
Sometimes I wish it were happening to you
Sometimes I wish people could only see
Another side of me
Sometimes I wish I were never born
So I wouldn’t be here for you to scorn
Sometimes I wonder why I’m only a friend
Sometimes I wonder will anyone care if my life came to an end
Sometimes I wish you were in my shoes,
So you could see life from my point of view
Sometimes I wonder if I'm just too late
Sometimes I wonder if there’s such a thing as “Fate”
Sometimes I wonder why there’s night and day
Sometimes I wonder why my life’s this way
Sometimes I wish I could jump the track
Sometimes I wish I could just go back
Sometimes I wish I had a risk worth the take
Sometimes I wish I could erase every mistake
Sometimes I pretend everything is fine
Sometimes I wish I was on the frontline
Sometimes I wish life would turn out right
Sometimes I wish I could win the fight
But nothing is right and nothing is fine
So I stand-alone and wait for the end of time,
If you wish to join me go ahead
Cause in the end we’ll all be dead.
sometimes i cry
sometimes im fearful
sometimes i want to die
sometimes im tearful
sometimes im happy
sometimes im sad
sometimes im sappy
sometimes im mad
sometimes i cant say
sometimes i want to hold my breath
i just live every emotion day by day
sometimes i want to call upon death
megan watts
Here I am tonight,
I know it’s not alright,
Something’s just not right…
When I look into your eyes,
I can see all the lies.
Sometimes,
I wish this not be,
Sometimes,
I don’t want to believe,
Sometimes,
That we’re not to be,
Sometimes,
When I think about our memories……
Where you,
Lock your arms around me,
Letting our minds go free,
When you,
Sit by my side under the tree,
Hand in hand we can see,
The moonlight shining ever bright as can be,
How you, sing the song of our lullaby…
Sometimes,
I hum along this vivid tone,
Sometimes,
When I’m all alone,
Sometimes,
I still dream about you,
Sometimes,
All I can think of is you…
Since your trembling voice,
Muted……
When the sorrow siren,
Ended……
You left me in the rain,
Jaded……
When I last saw your face,
Faded……
Across the fields of yesterday
He sometimes comes to me,
A little lad just back from play --
The lad I used to be.
And yet he smiles so wistfully
Once he has crept within,
I wonder if he hopes to see
The man I might have been.
Sometimes there are no words to say
why a heart should feel this way.
No reason to even question why
Just be still, don't even try.
Sometimes thinking holds no thought
Life's just a net in which we're caught
No use in struggling to be free
We cannot plan our destiny
Sometimes we just have to listen
and just go by our intuition
No need to try and justify
A love we simply can't deny
sometimes i watch myself watching you
i don't know how i do it
it comes naturally as a heart beat
sometimes i catch you watching me
it makes my heart overflow with something sweet
sometimes we both look at each other at the same time as one another
it makes my eyes smile
and i know everytime i spend with you
is so worthwhile
Sometimes I feel alive
sometimes I feel dead
sometimes my heart hurts
sometimes it's all in my head
Sometimes I feel lonely
sometimes I need my space
sometimes there are no problems
sometimes I've got too much to face
Sometimes things go right
sometimes things go wrong
sometimes I fit right in
sometimes I just don't belong
Sometimes I want to laugh
sometimes I want to cry
sometimes I want to live
sometimes I want to die
Sometimes I want to face life
sometimes I want to be gone from sight
sometimes I want to run
sometimes I want to fight
Sometimes I want to sing
sometimes I want to shout
sometimes I know the asnwer
sometimes I'm in doubt
Sometimes I'm happy
sometimes I'm sad
sometimes I'm scared
sometimes I'm mad
Sometimes I want to win
sometimes I want to lose
sometimes I listen to music
sometimes I watch the news
Sometimes I make decisions
sometimes I'm told what to do
sometimes I find life hard
sometimes so do you.....
sometimes you may forget
sometimes people may forget
how nuture have a power
how the words have amagic
a magic come from the sky
in birds feather with buterflies
it have shine from long time ago
to show the ancient where to go
and now many buterflies have gone
and many birds feather the air have take
and we still dont now the truth
did the magic still or it goes
because the people have forget the magic source
the love the pureness the truth
the magic is not just a words
its love inside children hearts
its like one child wishing a wish
putting his hand on his heart and say
i wish the spring wind bring with it the lost magic source
the love the pureness the truth
Sometimes I like to try
Curl into a bottle and hide
From those thoughts about me
Those thoughts which haunt
Those annoying thoughts
Those keep you awake thoughts
Sometimes I spend hours writing
Days taken over by the tap, tapping
Of the keyboard or the scratching
Of a pen against paper
Sometimes I don't write for days
Sometimes it's weeks, I hate those times
Sometimes I listen to poetry readings
Perhaps too lazy to read myself
Or just enjoying another voice
I like to imagine others reading
That which I call my poetry
Sometimes I do all of the above
And Sometimes, well I guess
Sometimes is never enough
Raised to believe...
If they wished reality not to exist,
They could ignore it away!
Or kneel on knees to pray to false symbols
And/or deities with their likenesses
And ask 'them' to remove reality
Out of their way.
Since they can not fathom,
Those they have chosen
To defame by slander,
To 'be' and 'speak' of truth!
They actually hold them responsible...
For their quality of life,
Crumbling slowly in decay!
And nothing about their existence,
Is based on having a consciousness.
With morals, respect or concern conveyed!
And complaints of the artificialness of it...
They beg of their 'god' to keep it that way!
But the GOD who has created them...
Has always been about change!
And sometimes that is drastic.
At most times that change comes...
And no longer can be delayed.
He is tired
of Life.
Comes in after a hard day's work...
...lights a long tipped French cigarette.
Takes a long slow drag.
Takes a quick sip
of an Australian Chardonnay.
Switches on(by remote)
the Abba DVD
sings along to; KNOWING ME...KNOWING YOU.
He likes to do
the 'Ahhhh...ha! ' bits.
The two guys look like
trolls...it's the girls
he admires.
Fancies Agnetha first then
fancies he fancies Anfrid too.
Surfs the net.
Deletes the junk mail.
Would like to kill 'em all.
He sharpens his scythe
wishes someone
would updat the symbolic tools.
He feels such
a fool
carting it about
& black
...was never his colour.
'Come to bed, love! '
calls out Mrs. Death
(eager to jump on his bones)
Death hangs
his scythe up.
Grins that deathless grin
that makes her
shiver all over.
Death smiles:
'Coming love...coming! '
Sometimes the sky's too bright,
Or has too many clouds or birds,
And far away's too sharp a sun
To nourish thinking of him.
Why is my hand too blunt
To cut in front of me
My horrid images for me,
Of over-fruitful smiles,
The weightless touching of the lip
I wish to know
I cannot lift, but can,
The creature with the angel's face
Who tells me hurt,
And sees my body go
Down into misery?
No stopping. Put the smile
Where tears have come to dry.
The angel's hurt is left;
His telling burns.
Sometimes a woman's heart has salt,
Or too much blood;
I tear her breast,
And see the blood is mine,
Flowing from her, but mine,
And then I think
Perhaps the sky's too bright;
And watch my hand,
But do not follow it,
And feel the pain it gives,
But do not ache.
Mr. Potato is a fat man
Who juggled his belly as he ran
He once tried to clean a fan
saying to himself 'I can, I can'.
Down came Mr. Potato with a bang
'aargh' he cried, 'ooh' he sang.
'trring' the doorbell rang
at the door, another fat man.
Mr. Potato was all sore
For the man was a big bore
who always wanted more
and would'nt just leave it at the door
Mr. Potato had a hard time that day
with nothing going his way
he fell to the floor and got to the door
only to face a big bore
Rishi Menon,11 years.
there are times when i'm hunted by my own thoughts
i feel real bad, ususally i keep ignoring it until..... i can't take it anymore
.......
So sometimes i want to cry
i don't know why
but i do
sometimes i want to walk
i don't know where to
but i do
sometimes i want to write
i don't know what
but i do
sometimes i talk to myself
i don't know why
but i do
sometimes i want to stay alone
i don't know why
but i do
sometimes i pretend to be happy
well, i know why          (coz m sad)
and i do
sometimes i want to sing
i don't know what
but i do
sometimes i just want to die
i don't know why
but I DON'T! ! ! !
Sometimes
We adapt in tranquility
Yet face the
Insolent society.
Sometimes
We get hurt
In order to grow.
Sometimes
We fail
In order to know.
Sometimes
We feel maturity
Yet unaware off
Our creativity.
Sometimes
We go through
The complexity
To maintain
Our originality.
Sometimes
Our visions broaden
When our eyes
Are washed away
With tears.
sometimes we must
get hurt in order
to grow,
we must
fail in order
to know that.
sometimes
our visions
clear only after
our eyes
are washed
away with tears...
sometimes what you cover with your hands
if they misinterpret that
is not really intended for hiding
not the selfishness of your very own fingers
but
if they only know it by heart
are offerings asking
if you too are ready and willing to give them
the way you cover things are manners of asking
are you also willing to give
and give wholeheartedly without asking for
anything in return?
sometimes let me tell you
when i cover some lovely parts of myself
which you misinterpret again as
utter selfishness
nay, it is not the way you see things
skin deep
stones protruding on the low
ebbing of the season
sometimes let me tell you
when i cover the most vulnerable portion of my being
it is, in truth, just a manner of my asking
if indeed, in itself, and by itself,
if your love is true.
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
My world is bright and clear -
I know my heart,
I know my part,
No hesitance or fear;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I wander through the night -
To distant lands,
I grasp the hands
Of poverty and plight;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I have the power to cure -
The weak of heart,
Lives torn apart,
My faith is strong and pure;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
The answers come to light -
Which path to take,
Which choice to make,
No question which is right;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I feel you standing near -
You calm my storm,
Your heart is warm,
Your love for me is clear;
Sometimes when I'm dreaming..........
I just enjoy the view -
I'm in my space,
My perfect place,
That's when I dream of you.
sometimes when we emote that much
like some bleeding hearts
blinded by
the colors of the blood and sweat
of the dying sun
we fail to see
that the day has ended
that it is time to sleep
and dream
that it is time to give way
for other souls to
cry to weep to sigh
that it is time for some
other creatures who died
when they were once
children
to play their forgotten games
in the dark
sometimes we must accept
this is not just ours
this is also theirs
and the tears that dry
on the sand may not be just
ours after all
we may meet them
in due time, but for now let me
meet myself, let me drink with it
let me know his name
we are still strangers of the
very shining light.
In our lives we move around,
meeting strangers as we go,
sometimes those strangers
touch our lives in ways we do not know.
It is only afterwards,
we realise the effect they’ve had on us.
How they changed our direction,
made us better than before.
They helped us through a crisis
that played upon our mind,
showed us a better road to go,
in our confusion we could not find.
They touched our lives with kind words,
that somehow made us whole.
They became a beloved friend;
we are forever in their dept.
More times or not,
they never realised what they’ve done,
until we thank them
and then they are surprised by the fact.
They don’t want us to be beholden to them,
but for their kindness
we will always be thankful so,
for that helping touch,
when we needed that someone we did not know.
The next time someone touches us
in our time of need,
we should reward them,
with just a thank you,
because that is all they need.
SOMETIMES with one I love, I fill myself with rage, for fear I effuse
unreturn'd love;
But now I think there is no unreturn'd love--the pay is certain, one
way or another;
(I loved a certain person ardently, and my love was not return'd;
Yet out of that, I have written these songs.)
Sometimes you break
When the heat is too much
And you can't breath properly
Because of the heat
i
I don’t smile
You may think I am giving you
The permission
To think
That I really do not mean
What I say
With this grin on my face
ii
I stand my ground now
No backing off
On a wishy-washy
I give weight
To my prime intentions
iii
I tell the truth
I will tell you what I feel
I will tell you that I am not comfortable
With what you are doing
iv
Tell me I am silly
I will agree
I am not a little bit touchy
You are right I am
Now take the wind out of your sails
v
I do not have fingers
To point
To make you more defensive
I have only my heart
To tell you how I feel
Who are you anyway
To be blamed?
vi
I will make up a list of handy excuses
To see what is clearly going on
Before I put myself in the fray
vii
I am not afraid
To change my mind
Whenever I want to
In a minute or two
I may still have time
To tell you
That sometimes I do not
Honor commitments.
now, i will be happier
truth has a face
with many expressions
truth can hurt you in ways you can't imagine
truth can make you happy or sad
depending on the situation you had
truth can kill you or even save you
truth can help you or even break you
what if today your parents decide
to tell you
when you were a baby
you were adopted
after 18 years
your first reaction would be fallin tears
would you have want them to tell you the truth
or would rather for them to continue lying  to you............................
(PLEASE COMMENT BECAUSE I WANT YOUR OPINION)
what is right can sometimes be wrong,
like the right of a state to kill,
that to me is wrong,
like the right to have slaves
that was wrong, but they once
thought it was right,
something that feels so right
may, sometimes, be also be wrong,
like feeling love, and too much love
for a neighbor or yourself,
it can be intoxicating at times,
and it can kill you,
because what is right exists only
in our human minds,
limited, too narrow, too
confined in our flesh and blood,
in the context of our culture,
in the frames of our time,
to the dictates of religion
the liberality of our education,
to our biases and prejudices,
what we believe in, what we
touch with faith in dark places
what we try to light with candles,
or see in microscopes or see in
telescopes, or see with our eyes
and hearts wide open,
may still be wrong, or
still be not right,
so what is right after all?
Possibly, this can be right,
But possibly this can also be wrong,
We can always pray. But the doubt
Is always there. Cogito ergo sum.
Who can really be sure?
I'd known her all my life,
nursed her for seven years
night and day
yet when last night I lay down to sleep
I heard myself say
as if to someone else,
what a splendid lady,
I wish I'd known her better
GLOUCESTER, AUGUST, 1720
The wind it wailed, the wind it moaned,
And the white caps flecked the sea;
"An' I would to God," the skipper groaned,
"I had not my boy with me!
Snug in the stern-sheets, little John
Laughed as the scud swept by;
But the skipper's sunburnt cheeks grew wan
As he watched the wicked sky.
"Would he were at his mother's side!"
And the skipper's eyes were dim.
"Good Lord in heaven, if ill betide,
What would become of him!
"For me--my muscles are as steel,
For me let hap what may;
I might make shift upon the keel
Until the break o' day.
"But he, he is so weak and small,
So young, scarce learned to stand--
O pitying Father of us all,
I trust him in Thy hand!
"For Thou, who makest from on high
A sparrow's fall--each one!--
Surely, O Lord, thou'lt have an eye
On Alec Yeaton's son!"
Then, helm hard-port; right straight he sailed
Towards the headland light:
The wind it moaned, the wind it wailed,
And black, black fell the night.
Then burst a storm to make one quail
Though housed from winds and waves--
They who could tell about that gale
Must rise from watery graves!
Sudden it came, as sudden went;
Ere half the night was sped,
The winds were hushed, the waves were spent,
And the stars shone overhead.
Now, as the morning mist grew thin,
The folk on Gloucester shore
Saw a little figure floating in
Secure, on a broken oar!
Up rose the cry, "A wreck! a wreck!
Pull, mates, and waste no breath!"--
They knew it, though 't was but a speck
Upon the edge of death!
Long did they marvel in the town
At God his strange decree,
That let the stalwart skipper drown
And the little child go free!
Although I work, and seldom cease,
At Dumas pere and Dumas fils,
Alas, I cannot make me care
For Dumas fils and Dumas pere.
Though I only had you for a month, that time though short,
will remain in my heart, and mind for a lifetime.
You were so young, sweet, adorable.
You smiled, even up until the end.
I held you in my arms as you took your last breath,
tears rolling down my cheeks, and falling upon your tiny little body.
If only I could have done more than just holding you, and stroking your cheek,
and telling you we would meet again someday far into the future.
Mortality, what a cruel gift which can be taken away in the blink of an eye.
He was anyone, everyone's son.
A splendid, strapping lad
with a smile to make an angel blush;
So innocent, shy and wide.
There was goodness in his every gesture,
and in every stride of his bold step;
As he marched off with his regiment
to a war not of his making, but he went.
Without complaint he went, believing
it was his duty to fight beside his mates;
Even if the odds were great, as they died
in their thousands like slaughtered sheep.
Sheltered by the Somme in an unmarked grave
where memory saves forgetfulness, that, and his
final letter are all that remain of anyone, everyone's son.
What did I do, sonny, in the Great World War?
Well, I learned to peel potatoes and to scrub the barrack floor.
I learned to push a barrow and I learned to swing a pick,
I learned to turn my toes out, and to make my eyeballs click.
I learned the road to Folkestone, and I watched the English shore,
Go down behind the skyline, as I thought, for evermore.
And the Blighty boats went by us and the harbour hove in sight,
And they landed us and sorted us and marched us "by the right".
"Quick march!" across the cobbles, by the kids who rang along
Singing "Appoo?" "Spearmant" "Shokolah?" through dingy old Boulogne;
By the widows and the nurses and the niggers and Chinese,
And the gangs of smiling Fritzes, as saucy as you please.
I learned to ride as soldiers ride from Etaps to the Line,
For days and nights in cattle trucks, packed in like droves of swine.
I learned to curl and kip it on a foot of muddy floor,
And to envy cows and horses that have beds of beaucoup straw.
I learned to wash in shell holes and to shave myself in tea,
While the fragments of a mirror did a balance on my knee.
I learned to dodge the whizz-bangs and the flying lumps of lead,
And to keep a foot of earth between the sniper and my head.
I learned to keep my haversack well filled with buckshee food,
To take the Army issue and to pinch what else I could.
I learned to cook Maconochie with candle-ends and string,
With "four-by-two" and sardine-oil and any God-dam thing.
I learned to use my bayonet according as you please
For a breadknife or a chopper or a prong for toasting cheese.
I learned "a first field dressing" to serve my mate and me
As a dish-rag and a face-rag and a strainer for our tea.
I learned to gather souvenirs that home I hoped to send,
And hump them round for months and months and dump them in the end.
I learned to hunt for vermin in the lining of my shirt,
To crack them with my finger-nail and feel the beggars spirt;
I learned to catch and crack them by the dozen and the score
And to hunt my shirt tomorrow and to find as many more.
I learned to sleep by snatches on the firestep of a trench,
And to eat my breakfast mixed with mud and Fritz's heavy stench.
I learned to pray for Blighty ones and lie and squirm with fear,
When Jerry started strafing and the Blighty ones were near.
I learned to write home cheerful with my heart a lump of lead
With the thought of you and mother, when she heard that I was dead.
And the only thing like pleasure over there I ever knew,
Was to hear my pal come shouting, "There's a parcel, mate, for you."
So much for what I did do - now for what I have not done:
Well, I never kissed a French girl and I never killed a Hun,
I never missed an issue of tobacco, pay, or rum,
I never made a friend and yet I never lacked a chum.
I never borrowed money, and I never lent - but once
(I can learn some sorts of lessons though I may be borne a dunce).
I never used to grumble after breakfast in the Line
That the eggs were cooked too lightly or the bacon cut too fine.
I never told a sergeant just exactly what I thought,
I never did a pack-drill, for I never quite got caught.
I never punched a Red-Cap's nose (be prudent like your Dad),
But I'd like as many sovereigns as the times I've wished I had.
I never stopped a whizz-bang, though I've stopped a lot of mud,
But the one that Fritz sent over with my name on was a dud.
I never played the hero or walked about on top,
I kept inside my funk hole when the shells began to drop.
Well, Tommy Jones's father must be made of different stuff:
I never asked for trouble - the issue was enough.
So I learned to live and lump it in the lovely land of war,
Where the face of nature seems a monstrous septic sore,
Where the bowels of earth of earth hang open, like the guts of something slain,
And the rot and wreck of everything are churned and churned again;
Where all is done in darkness and where all is still in day,
Where living men are buried and the dead unburied lay;
Where men inhabit holes like rats, and only rats live there;
Where cottage stood and castle once in days before La Guerre;
Where endless files of soldiers thread the everlasting way,
By endless miles of duckboards, through endless walls of clay;
Where life is one hard labour, and a soldiers gets his rest
When they leave him in the daisies with a puncture in his chest;
Where still the lark in summer pours her warble from the skies,
And underneath, unheeding, lie the blank upstaring eyes.
And I read the Blighty papers, where the warriors of the pen
Tell of "Christmas in the trenches" and "The Spirit of our men";
And I saved the choicest morsels and I read them to my chum,
And he muttered, as he cracked a louse and wiped it off his thumb:
"May a thousand chats from Belgium crawl under their fingers as they write;
May they dream they're not exempted till they faint with mortal fright;
May the fattest rats in Dickebusch race over them in bed;
May the lies they've written choke them like a gas cloud till they're dead;
May the horror and the torture and the things they never tell
(For they only write to order) be reserved for them in Hell!"
You'd like to be a soldier and go to France some day?
By all the dead in Delville Wood, by all the nights I lay
Between our lines and Fritz's before they brought me in;
By this old wood-and-leather stump, that once was flesh and skin;
By all the lads who crossed with me but never crossed again,
By all the prayers their mothers and their sweethearts prayed in vain,
Before the things that were that day should ever more befall
May God in common pity destroy us one and all!
BID a strong ghost stand at the head
That my Michael may sleep sound,
Nor cry, nor turn in the bed
Till his morning meal come round;
And may departing twilight keep
All dread afar till morning's back.
That his mother may not lack
Her fill of sleep.
Bid the ghost have sword in fist:
Some there are, for I avow
Such devilish things exist,
Who have planned his murder, for they know
Of some most haughty deed or thought
That waits upon his future days,
And would through hatred of the bays
Bring that to nought.
Though You can fashion everything
From nothing every day, and teach
The morning stats to sing,
You have lacked articulate speech
To tell Your simplest want, and known,
Wailing upon a woman's knee,
All of that worst ignominy
Of flesh and bone;
And when through all the town there ran
The servants of Your enemy,
A woman and a man,
Unless the Holy Writings lie,
Hurried through the smooth and rough
And through the fertile and waste,
protecting, till the danger past,
With human love.
I place the peonies on the windowsill -
a perfect present for the new mum,
flushed and furry-eyed on the unmade bed.
A bonneted bundle lies in the crook of her arm.
He is small and neatly wrapped
as if he had been sent by post.
The new dad gazes at his little boy.
He looks younger than his twenty nine years
and still slightly drunk from the exhaustion of support.
Young Dylan Brendan sleeps contentedly,
his tiny hands curl and uncurl his dreams,
his mouth makes high pitched kitten sounds.
I find myself humming ‘The Water is Wide’
and nestling into my new name –
Grandmother.
A son was born to a poor peasant.
A foul old woman stepped inside
The hut, with trembling bony fingers
Clawing her tangled locks aside.
And when the midwife wasn't looking,
Across towards that babe she reached.
And with her gnarled, misshapen fingers
His cheek she very lightly touched.
Mumbling weird words and slowly tapping
Her crooked stick, she went away.
Nobody knew what charm she'd woven,
And so the years went duly by -
The secret spell came to fulfilment:
In life, much sorrow came to him
But happiness, and joy, and true love
Fled the dark sign upon the skin.
Why does it have to be this way
but i love him anyway
when will he stop
when will he learn
i just dont understand.
He makes his life so uneasy
it that suppost to please me
why does he do the things he does
to fight for a love he once lost.
my head hurts from all the stress
when all i asked him was to get dressed.
comments please.....thank you
My lemon-colored
whisper-weight blouse
with keyhole closure
and sweetheart neckline is tucked
into a pastel silhouette skirt
with side-slit vents
and triplicate pleats
when I realize in the sunlight
through the windshield
that the cool yellow of this blouse clashes
with the buttermilk heather in my skirt
which makes me slightly queasy
however
the periwinkle in the pattern on the sash
is sufficiently echoed by the twill uppers
of my buckle-snug sandals
while the accents on my purse
pick up the pink
in the button stitches
and then as we pass
through Weapons Check
it's reassuring to note
how the yellows momentarily mesh
and make an overall pleasing
composite
Flailing nailed to tree of woe
Heartiest deed canst answer lo
Thunder claps atop fated trees
Impending havoc doth not sees
Betwixt ye cut the lancet clean
From the morrow not ye glean
Seeks dismal destiny fairest lock
Rudes loathe that sages mock
Tender feet hath burnt to hock
Crimson beads on braid an frock
Cringe ye that, hell hath send
Shapes the fate an olden bend
Tryst with Eden eagerly fought
Kings which to end hath sought
Wretched fate danced an got
Banshee wails, demons fraught.
Lore stealeth Adam's son.
Simple joys thatch hath done
Truth perishes as ocean raps
Sand grains most doomed to laps
Endless medleys hardly match
Eager that fire an fury snatch
Hear ye Dogs that yell in hell
Twixt, feisty demons fair to dwell
Lap blood off chopping blocks
Claw to bits the ascension rocks
Frenzied death to wistful morns
Contrive flames to fashioned forms.
Consumed reduced in deity's fold.
Vile the smiles that devils behold.
(Islamabad)
(May 13,2009)
A dad, a son,
One life, one love,
A road, all alone,
One last strife, from above.
Dad's ticket has been bought,
Dad's heart has been shot.
Unfair, son cries,
Dad dries.
Shaky hands rub son's face,
With embrace,
Dad whispers words,
In son's ear.
Another tear of the son falls,
On dad's palm vanishing with rainfalls.
Can not breathe easy,
Blood flows from dad's body.
Dad smiles and looks his son,
As his hand falls on the ground.
Eyes stay glassy and empty,
A tear dropp stays still on dad's eyelash.
Tears in son's eyes,
Dad slowly dies,
In weak son's hands.
By the road purple lilies smile,
Red roses seem to die.
Son takes a sweet lilie
Lies it in his father's hand,
And whispers slowly;
'I know, I know, me too dad'.
Last dad's words;
Son, I am sorry,
I never said,
But I......
Dear son, dear son, dear son,
I feel weight of more than ton,
It gives me worry and lot of pain,
All my efforts seem to go in vain,
No selfish intention to nurture and bring,
Every parents dream and desire beautiful spring,
Wish their son to become big man or king,
Obey them, listen and nicely sing,
We did all we could for your uplift,
This too with zeal and in good spirit,
Thought you may offer candle and lit,
All hopes dashed and you delivered a hit,
You went for your choice in education,
Spent whole summer in complete vacation,
You neglected very future in question,
Ruled you out even hint or brief mention,
You were adamant and chose your partner,
Proved to be fast and very bad listener,
We sensed trouble sooner or later,
Proved trouble maker and staunch hater,
How much we cared but you did not keep?
Single expectation but made us weep,
Not a day passed with peaceful sleep,
Heart misses a beats with erratic beep,
You had an eye on our meager saving,
Compelling us to part or forceful giving,
We have no desire or wish it to hold,
Appreciate your way to turn us cold,
Nothing will go against your way,
You will have all and complete say,
We will make it smooth and pave the way,
You don’t have face dark but have shining rays,
We could have given everything you wanted,
The way you executed made we fainted,
Relatives may not spare but label you tainted,
Full trees grown after seeds we had planted,
Little hesitation on our part made you wild,
Forgot you all respect and nature mild,
Never thought! You were our beloved child,
Always at service with protective shield,
This story is repeated in every house,
As we see universal presence of mouse,
Feeling deeply hurt and passions rouse,
Crying over split milk is of no use
XLV
Care-charmer Sleep, son of the sable Night,
Brother to Death, in silent darkness born:
Relieve my languish, and restore the light,
With dark forgetting of my cares, return;
And let the day be time enough to mourn
The shipwreck of my ill-adventur'd youth:
Let waking eyes suffice to wail their scorn,
Without the torment of the night's untruth.
Cease dreams, th' imagery of our day-desires,
To model forth the passions of the morrow;
Never let rising sun approve you liars,
To add more grief to aggravate my sorrow.
Still let me sleep, embracing clouds in vain;
And never wake to feel the day's disdain.
WHat on Earth deserves our trust ?
Youth and Beauty both are dust.
Long we gathering are with pain,
What one moment calls again.
Seven years childless, marriage past,
A Son, a son is born at last :
So exactly lim'd and fair.
Full of good Spirits, Meen, and Air,
As a long life promised,
Yet, in less than six weeks dead.
Too promising, too great a mind
In so small room to be confin'd :
Therefore, as fit in Heav'n to dwell,
He quickly broke the Prison shell.
So the subtle Alchimist,
Can't with Hermes Seal resist
The powerful spirit's subtler flight,
But t'will bid him long good night.
And so the Sun if it arise
Half so glorious as his Eyes,
Like this Infant, takes a shrowd,
Buried in a morning Cloud.
For three years, out of key with his time,
He strove to resuscitate the dead art
Of poetry; to maintain "the sublime"
In the old sense. Wrong from the start--
No, hardly, but seeing he had been born
In a half savage country, out of date;
Bent resolutely on wringing lilies from the acorn;
Capaneus; trout for factitious bait;
Idmen gar toi panth, hos eni troie
Caught in the unstopped ear;
Giving the rocks small lee-way
The chopped seas held him, therefore, that year.
His true Penelope was Flaubert,
He fished by obstinate isles;
Observed the elegance of Circe's hair
Rather than the mottoes on sun-dials.
Unaffected by "the march of events,"
He passed from men's memory in l'an trentuniesme
de son eage;the case presents
No adjunct to the Muses' diadem.
II
The age demanded an image
Of its accelerated grimace,
Something for the modern stage
Not, at any rate, an Attic grace;
Not, certainly, the obscure reveries
Of the inward gaze;
Better mendacities
Than the classics in paraphrase!
The "age demanded" chiefly a mould in plaster,
Made with no loss of time,
A prose kinema, not, not assuredly, alabaster
Or the "sculpture" of rhyme.
III
The tea-rose tea-gown, etc.
Supplants the mousseline of Cos,
The pianola "replaces"
Sappho's barbitos.
Christ follows Dionysus,
Phallic and ambrosial
Made way for macerations;
Caliban casts out Ariel.
All things are a flowing
Sage Heracleitus say;
But a tawdry cheapness
Shall outlast our days.
Even the Christian beauty
Defects--after Samothrace;
We see to kalon
Decreed in the market place.
Faun's flesh is not to us,
Nor the saint's vision.
We have the press for wafer;
Franchise for circumcision.
All men, in law, are equals.
Free of Pisistratus,
We choose a knave or an eunuch
To rule over us.
O bright Apollo,
Tin andra, tin heroa, tina theon,
What god, man or hero
Shall I place a tin wreath upon!
IV
These fought in any case,
And some believing,
pro domo, in any case...
Some quick to arm,
some for adventure,
some from fear of weakness,
some from fear of censure,
some for love of slaughter, in imagination,
learning later...
some in fear, learning love of slaughter;
Died some, pro patria,
non "dulce" not "et decor"...
walked eye-deep in hell
believing old men's lies, then unbelieving
came home, home to a lie,
home to many deceits,
home to old lies and new infamy;
usury age-old and age-thick
and liars in public places.
Daring as never before, wastage as never before.
Young blood and high blood,
fair cheeks, and fine bodies;
fortitude as never before
frankness as never before,
disillusions as never told in the old days,
hysterias, trench confessions,
laughter out of dead bellies.
V
There died a myriad,
And of the best, among them,
For an old bitch gone in the teeth,
For a botched civilization,
Charm, smiling at the good mouth,
Quick eyes gone under earth's lid,
For two gross of broken statues,
For a few thousand battered books.
One day he will come into the bathroom
to watch you use the blade. And at five
or six or however old he still won't have
the right words, but what he'll be looking for
is the truth of his future face scraped clean
or shaped by beard.  He'll want admittance
to the ritual and he will stand and stare at the wet
edge of the Ewek & Son Sexto©Blade flush
against your skin.
'Daddy, what's that? ' he'll say.
'Straight razor, son, ' you'll tell him
as you sweep the steel of your father's blade
through the lather covering your jugular vein.
'It takes the shadow off my face.'
'But where does the shadow come from? '
As usual, he'll want the answers to everything
years too soon.  Say nothing.  He must learn
the rest in the way you strop the razor,
in the tone of the cold water thrown against
your face, in the damp towel and how you
consider yourself at the mirror before
tousling his hair and walking away
leaving him to write his own future in the mystery
of a fogged mirror or the sting of styptic pencil
punctuated by the blotting shreds of tissue
torn to stem the inevitable consequences
of a young man's desires grown then cut
to fall with the thin hairs of his first shave.
Let me tell you all, a story
of father and son
who lived happily
before the conflicts begun
Every Sunday morning they went for a walk
spent time having a man-to-man talk
Sitting on the bench at the sea-side
like friends meant to be together forever
Father and son
spent their time enjoying every moment together
Nearly in the afternoon, they used to return
Arm in arm, before the conflicts begun.
They used to sit on the couch, reading together
till lunch was served on the table
Then they used to spend time together
Munching their lunch, watching movies on the cable
The lady of the house was proud to see them as one
This was when the conflicts had not begun
One unfortunate day, the father lost his job
He decided to talk to his son about the lost job
That evening the son returned home, tired and exhausted
Father never realized that he would not be interested
As usual the father put his arm around his son
And the son put his arms around his father too,
But this was before the conflict begun.
When the son came to know
that his father is jobless now
He understood that the entire responsibility
would be on his shoulders now
Slowly his arm slipped down from his fathers shoulder
He walked a few steps away to avoid his father
The father did not know the things had changed
He walked to his son,
to have the things arranged.
'Oh father, you are an old man now,
Why don't you just stop following me around the house
Why don't you do something worth,
than just sit back jobless in the house! '
The father knew from experience, the things were different now
He knew it was time for him to step back now
He turned around to look at his wife, who,
as always, was standing by his side.
Every alternate day,
the discussion turned to the fathers' contribution to the house
One fine day, the father was seen dusting the furniture of the house
His wife came running to him and pulled the duster from his hand
She looked in his eyes and gently held his hand
She said, 'He would understand soon,
what being a father means
wait till he gets married and has his own son
let him wait till he grows old and is said to be worthless by his own son'
The father, now tears in his eyes
looked at his wife and said
'Sweetheart, let this never happen'
You're standing in the doorway.
Your workday is all done.
He waits to see you everyday,
this boy that is your son.
He hopes you will go fishing.
He hopes you'll shoot the gun.
He just wants to be with you,
this boy that is your son.
He is your spitting image.
To him you are ''The One''.
He hopes to be just like you,
this boy that is your son.
You show him what a man is.
You teach as you have fun.
You are admired as well as loved
by this boy that is your son.
You've got a friend forever.
Until the world is done.
Then, still you will be holding
this man that is your son.
I hope my little brother is nothing like you
Your a monster that feeds on innocent minds
Why are you so up tight
Let go of me thats all you hear
Little bro try to stay strong don't pick up that mans bad ways
I wish i could over come that man
He a beast a dog
Unbearable
Can't understand me
Let my brother be free of you and your bad ways
There is the family photograph
That is your father’s face,
There is your father’s father
Grey-gathering years apace;
The son, bright-eyed in the morning,
The father, lined and drawn,
The son became the father
On the day that you were born.
We’ve all set out on the highway
Our fathers wished us well,
The sons became the fathers
In the same distinctive spell;
The road of all beginnings
Is all there is to lend,
But many a twist, and many a turn
Has marred us at the end.
He was my father’s father,
I am my father’s son,
We’ve travelled as far, and farther
Than our father’s years have run;
The twists and turns of fortune
Mean nothing, lost or won,
But the love of a father’s father,
And the love of a father’s son.
3 September 1977
The father conceives his son
the son grows with his father
the spirit allows the heritage
Father, son, spirit. The father says sweet things to his son
the son is a rosebud to his father
the spirit remembers the instant of conception
Spirit, father, son. The father works, gladly
the son at school, learns much
the spirit, lovingly, joins them
Son, father, spirit The son makes his father, a good father
the union of father and son,
is the work of the spirit of love
Spirit, son, father.
these tears of joy,
are for the first time that i saw you
my beatiful baby boy,
i never thought this love i would find,
for what i feel for you is so deep inside,
when i see your face i see mine,
when i look into your eyes i can see the sun shine,
no matter how hard times may get,
just remember that im here for you dont ever forget,
for you are my hart my strenght my all,
when ever you need me just give me a call,
for i will always be here for you until the end,
because im more than just a father im also your friend.
Copyright ©2009  Jose Murguia
dedicated to my son: nicholas anthony murguia i love u always!
I look at you and see my eyes
looking through velvet skies
I wonder if you are bouncing through the same clouds as I
I haven't left this place
since i saw your mothers face
and now she forces me to ripen
to release the child I always knew
for the egg that beautifully grew
to become the father figure for you.
Copyrighted Sara Tehrani 29/05/09
On the night you said goodbye
I told God, I want you to die
because my heart ached
For your pain was real
and I knew your suffering
would never heal
So I  laid in bed that night
As God had called you towards his light
All of my thoughts were now known
and the sound of the phone
rang out in our home
I ran out of my room and screamed
I knew what happened
that it wasn’t a dream
I watched as a grown man cried
for he knew also that his wife had died
My brother soon joined in
And he screamed as I just did
The person that brought us here
Was gone
and this was clear
All I knew was because of you
you gave us love as we both grew
you spent your life teaching us right
and we thank you mom for your tremendous fight
You did not want to go
You wanted to stay
and watch us grow
but your chosen time had come
We lost a mother
and cancer had won
I remember so well the last time I saw you
it was after school with my two friends who you knew
We brought you balloons and a little hippo
and you smiled and said hello
But your eyes and face did not look as they did
and your voice quivered
as your body shivered...
I stood at your bed with my face to the ground
and held your hand softly
without making a sound
how could I have known -  what lied ahead
for all I knew -  you were sick in bed
I was young and thought you would be fine
I wish I knew this would be our last time
Many years have passed by
Since you have gone - mom
But I know you will always be with me
And I shall never walk alone
On the night you said goodbye
God took your soul up high
away from us down here
to a place where there is no fear
but one day we will meet again
where the night and day never end
where people don't pass away
and words like goodbye…
We will never have to say….
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SON
Melvin Banggollay
Today is your birthday dear little child of mine
Whose touch tells me go on, ' dad be happy'
even sometime life seems so full of malady
and with cowing thunder forcing one to insanity
while ocean of tears flows with much agony.
Son, I have no other gift to give you today
I am so sorry I can't give you even just a candy
For I have nothing left even just a single penny
but I give you a love full of  gold and sweet honey
that will always be there to care you till eternity.
I love you son, my little boy on your 2nd birthday
I pray to God that you'll be blessed with humility
and be crowned with strong Faith to the Almighty
that when you grow up you'll be the man I want to be
A man of virtues serving God and humanity.
May you have more birthday to come my Budoy
Long live my dear little son.... Happy Birthday.
His father a decorated soldier a noble hearted one
And he the ballad singer sings of battles fought and won
A true chip of the the old block when all is said and done
He has his father's D N A and he is his father's son.
'Tis not to listen to war ballads that I have come in here
I came in for to quench my thirst with a cool frothy beer
He ends another war song to another loud encore
Yet why do they applaud him and beg him to sing more?
His songs fire the patriotism in them by keeping old wars alive
And ballads of old soldiers insure that wars survive
The songs he sing are very old and have been often sung
Of brave men who risked their lives in war and of brave men who died young.
He sings of young men who went to war that was the choice they made
These old men now who on war memorial day march in the big parade
With their bravery medals on display they won't leave old wars die
The war that was to end all wars another old war lie.
The son of a war hero of war he choose to sing
Though too much of patriotism is not a healthy thing
A true chip of the old block when all is said and done
He has his father's D N A and he is his father's son.
if i had a son
i'll show him care
so as to have love
i'll give him money
so as to have more
id show him compassion
so that he'll be my companion
i'll teach him spanking
sothat he'll know his wrongs
i'll show him life
so that he'll learn to give
i'll show him the world
so he'll supress his greed
Jack Honest was only eight years of age when his father died,
And by the death of his father, Mrs Honest was sorely tried;
And Jack was his father's only joy and pride,
And for honesty Jack couldn't be equalled in the country-side.
So a short time before Jack's father died,
'Twas loud and bitterly for Jack he cried,
And bade him sit down by his bedside,
And then told him to be honest whatever did betide.
John, he said, looking him earnestly in the face,
Never let your actions your name disgrace,
Remember, my dear boy, and do what's right,
And God will bless you by day and night.
Then Mr Honest bade his son farewell, and breathed his last,
While the hot tears from Jack's eyes fell thick and fast;
And the poor child did loudly sob and moan,
When he knew his father had left him and his mother alone.
So, as time wore on, Jack grew to be a fine boy,
And was to his mother a help and joy;
And, one evening, she said, Jack, you are my only prop,
I must tell you, dear, I'm thinking about opening a shop.
Oh! that's a capital thought, mother, cried Jack,
And to take care of the shop I won't be slack;
Then his mother said, Jackey, we will try this plan,
And look to God for his blessing, and do all we can.
So the widow opened the shop and succeeded very well,
But in a few months fresh troubles her befell--
Alas! poor Mrs Honest was of fever taken ill,
But Jack attended his mother with a kindly will.
But, for fear of catching the fever, her customers kept away,
And once more there wasn't enough money the rent to pay;
And in her difficulties Mrs Honest could form no plan to get out,
But God would help her, she had no doubt.
So, one afternoon, Mrs Honest sent Jack away
To a person that owed her some money, and told him not to stay,
But when he got there the person had fled,
And to return home without the money he was in dread.
So he saw a gentleman in a carriage driving along at a rapid rate,
And Jack ran forward to his mansion and opened the lodge-gate,
Then the gentleman opened his purse and gave him, as he thought, a shilling
For opening the lodge-gate so cleverly and so willing.
Then Jack stooped to lift up the coin, when lo and behold!
He found to his surprise it was a piece of gold!
And Jack cried oh! joyful, this will make up for my mother's loss,
Then he ran home speedily, knowing his mother wouldn't be cross.
And when he got home he told his mother of his ill success,
And his adventure with the gentleman, then she felt deep distress;
And when Jack showed her the sovereign, the gentleman gave him,
She cried, We mustn't keep that money, it would be a sin.
Dear mother, I thought so, there must be some mistake,
But in the morning, to Squire Brooksby, the sovereign I'll take;
So, when morning came, he went to Squire Brooksby's Hall,
And at the front door for the Squire he loudly did call.
Then the hall door was opened by a footman, dressed in rich livery,
And Jack told him he wished Mr Brooksby to see;
Then to deliver Jack's message the footman withdrew,
And when the footman returned he said, Master will see you.
Then Jack was conducted into a rich furnished room,
And to Mr Brooksby he told his errand very soon,
While his honest heart, with fear, didn't quake,
Saying, Mr Brooksby, you gave me a sovereign yesterday in a mistake.
Why, surely I have seen you before, said Mr Brooksby;
Yes, Sir, replied Jack Honest, bowing very politely;
Then what is your name, my honest lad? Asked Mr Brooksby;
John Honest, sir, replied Jack, right fearlessly.
The, my brave lad, you are Honest by name, and honest by nature,
Which, really, you appear to be in every feature,
But, I am afraid, such boys as you are very few,
But, I dare say, your mother has taught you.
Then Jack laid the sovereign down on the table before Mr Brooksby;
But Mr Brooksby said, No! my lad, I freely give it to thee;
Then Jack said, Oh, sir, I'm obliged to you I'm sure,
Because, sir, this money will help my mother, for she is poor.
Mrs Brooksby came to see Mrs Honest in a few days,
And for Jack's honesty she was loud in praise;
And she took Jack into her service, and paid him liberally,
And she gave Mrs Honest a house, for life, rent free.
Now, I must leave Jack Honest and his mother in fresh found glory,
Hoping my readers will feel interested in this story,
And try always to imitate the hero-- Jack Honest--
And I'm sure they will find it the safest and the best!
For unto us a child was born, and unto us The Son was given.
Through The Son I am reborn, and by His blood I am forgiven.
On a cross of shame and scorn, His life for all was freely given.
Many hearts indeed were torn, as the temple curtain was riven.
But that was the end of The Law, and began the Age of Grace.
And access was open to all, who in prayer would seek His face.
This was for men big and small, at any time and from any place.
He came to redeem from the fall, all the sinners of Adam’s race.
The only man, who had no sin, came into this world to be a light.
A world that was made by Him, and filled by men with evil blight.
His light in me He placed within, to guide me in the darkest night.
And as you faithfully follow Him, He fills you with eternal delight.
Christ came as God had willed, to become the Savior of all men.
Christ Jesus being Spirit filled, said that men must be born again.
But by His own, Christ was killed, as one who stood condemned.
However friend this only fulfilled, Christ’s set purpose for all men.
The reason Jesus came to earth, was to be God’s final sacrifice.
For short of Glory was our worth, and so The Son paid the price,
So from God we gain new birth, and this is through Jesus Christ.
And soon we will leave this earth, to begin with Him Eternal Life.
(Copyright ©01/2006)
If you stop to find out what your wages will be
And how they will clothe and feed you,
Willie, my son, don't you go on the Sea.
For the Sea will never need you.
If you ask for the reason of every command,
And argue with people about you,
Willie, my son, don't you go on the Land,
For the Land will do better without you.
If you stop to consider the work you have done
And to boast what your labour is worth, dear,
Angels may come for you, Willie, my son,
But you'll never be wanted on Farth, dear!
My son
I am here
I cannot protect you
From the world.
My son
I am here
I can only love you
No matter what
My son
I am here
My love unconditional
On this you can rely
My son
I am here
To guide and to teach you
And now you must fly
My son
I am here
Life can be difficult
I hear your cry
My son
I am here
Changes are painful
Never forget who you are
My son
I am here
Maintain the faith
In yourself and in God
My son
I am here
Self acceptance is yours
Do not fear
My son
I am here
Dear Mother
Special wishs from your son
They say a mother's work is never done
and I can vouch for that
You've done a ton
and this day when all the thanks
doesn't seem quite enough
I know you've struggled many times
and had it so rough
an average person would have quit
and said: I've had enough
But you were always watching out for me
protecting me and by my side you'd be
So this day, is special, just for you
For all the little things you've done and do
Today take it easy and let me treat
Sit back and take a rest, put up your feet
and let me cater to you to show I care
To make your life a little more fair
I love you Mom!
Forever in my heart you'll stay!
Enjoy this Happy Mother's Day!
©  James T. Adair
for my mother
I am clueless how brave you are
while conceiving me as mysterious  infinitesimal cell at first
floating inside your excruciating underwater womb
waiting patiently the approaching 12th day of December 1979
and the upcoming fearful twin of all birth -
the tragic death
I can't imagine the motherly sacrifice
the pain upon laboring me
as your first-born child,
mixed with excitement and worries
grasping in your nerves when you're about to  wean
my breathing away from your lungs
by letting me to breath independently
striving on my own
Then you hear my baby cry
with initial innocent tears
welcoming the dramatic weeping years ahead
as if a loud scream of cowardice
as if  a pre-visualization the encumbrance of
well-manifested, approach-avoidance mundane journey
the unavoidable path of all mortals
and it all begin in disperate home
our  inherent home
eventually becomes my self-evaluated penitence home
where once you lived seemingly alone
Your sacrifices become mine
as we begin to conjoin the sorrows
the springboard of our pensive tears
of sufferings of hardships
forcibly push me up prematurely to combat
against hard-to-bear emotional upheavals
I never complain that I should be aborted while
clinging obliviously in an umbilical cord
nor aspiring to be a murdered fetus thru
unintentional justifiable miscarriage
I never grief about my placental fate
as i regret not that you are my mother
This is my existence
I believe in creation as pro-life advocate
no need to question Creator's omnipotent hand
the oxygen-provider, the life giver
the wisdom bestower so I can conciously recognize
the emergence of my peculiar individuality
to fathom the mother and son, son and mother tandems
the most awesome and inspiring bonds
of all human lifelong relationships
firmly links and stands together
since time immemorial
Well, son, I'll tell you:
Life for me ain't been no crystal stair.
It's had tacks in it,
And splinters,
And boards torn up,
And places with no carpet on the floor—
Bare.
But all the time
I'se been a-climbin' on,
And reachin' landin's,
And turnin' corners,
And sometimes goin' in the dark
Where there ain't been no light.
So, boy, don't you turn back.
Don't you set down on the steps.
'Cause you finds it's kinder hard.
Don't you fall now—
For I'se still goin', honey,
I'se still climbin',
And life for me ain't been no crystal stair.
My son has belled the CAT,
But he wants to study at Rotterdam.
I quizzed why you want to go away
, When you have got into top MBA programme,
Right here so near home.
Please don’t leave us alone.
He said, ' Mom the global exposure
I will get there won’t be possible in Indore.
I will be studying with an international community,
With Nobel laureates on the faculty.
It will give an enriching experience.'
But son we will be poorer by several lakhs.
He looked at me with concern in his eyes,
And said I don’t want to stress you guys.
Maybe then I should study here,
I felt happy just to hear,
That he was willing to compromise
On his long cherished dreams.
I patted his back and said to him,
Go out into the world and spread your wings.
But always remember,
Your roots are here.
Come back home after you have broadened
Your horizons.
Right now India is a happening place,
And I hear is attracting lots of expats.
It will be a good idea
To explore your options here.
Set up your own enterprise,
This is my parting advice.
Come back and make your country proud
Just don’t end being a part of the crowd.
CAT is an entrance exam for top buisness scools in India
I had heard of the feelings of a mother for her son
But I never knew what it meant
Until my son, my precious one
As a gift from my God was sent
He was fat and cute, dark hair on his head
The first time they brought him to me
I felt such pride my heart nearly burst
For this was my son, Wesley
So much sheer pleasure he has given to me
This sweet little boy of mine
Time passes so fast and yet, seems so short
From birth the years past are nine
With hair now red and freckles a few
A dimple in his cute little chin
He can melt my heart, fade my temper away
When he gives me his cute little grin
Most times to me he is so sweet
And so rarely temper is seen
When mischief rises ever so high
In those beautiful eyes so green
He is my baby and always will be
And proudly his father’s son
So much love we give to him
Our son, our precious one
I thank God each day for giving to us
This one hundred percent little boy
Into our lives he brings so much
Our son, our most precious one.
My Son
My son 6 and 1/2 months in the womb
My son so small and cute
My son barely a child there
My son hooked up to so many things
My son is he going to make it
My son 3 pounds 2 ounces
My son is he going to make it
My son everyday with him
My son holding him and telling me that everything is going to alright
My son 2 years old now
My son took in from me by my parents
My son trying to get him back
My son everyday I'm from you I miss you
My son when I hear your voice I cry
My son when I hear you cry I wanna run over and hold you
My son I want you back so bad
My son I can't sleep at night not knowing if your alright
My son do you miss me and daddy
My son do you know that where gone
My son we will be together soon.
By Your Mother Carrie Robbins
Kai, my sensitive son.
An old soul.
So much to teach.
My son
Intelligent, quick witted,
cheeky too.
At times I will dispare,
what to do.
My son.
My son.
Whom makes my heart burst with joy.
My son, my only boy.
Inquisitive looks,
lust for life.
My son.
This little man of mine,
could not be more precious
were he made of gold.
My son
I steal into his room at night,
to watch him sleep.
Lent to me by god.
Mine for a while to keep.
My son.
My son is sleeping
and God is with him
Long legs all over the bed
Big hands on the blanket
sixteen
not a boy
not a man
How can this happen?
motherhood is a mystery
and a miracle
God is painting a masterpiece
as I am watching
I must not let my boy Dick down,
Knight of the air.
With wings of light he won renown
Then crashed somewhere.
To fly to France from London town
I do not dare.
Oh he was such a simple lad
Who loved the sky;
A modern day Sir Galahad,
No need to die:
Earthbound he might have been so glad,
Yet chose to fly.
I ask from where his courage stemmed?
I've never flown;
Air-travel I have oft condemned,--
Now I'm alone,
Yet somehow hold the bright belief
God gave his brief.
So now I must live up to him
Who won on high
A lustre time will never dim;
Though coward I,
Let me revere till life be done
My hero son.
The day we met
It was sunny and bright
We drove for hours and hours
To the place where you were kept
You were but three
Such a wonderful sight
You were so tiny
You were full of get-up-and-go
You were so fast
You ran like a flash
It was hard
To keep in sight
You ran out that door
As quick as you could
You were yelling
Daddy, Daddy, Daddy! ! !
As you ran down those stairs
You slipped and fill
I ran to you
To picked you up
From that grown
In which you were down
You had such a frown
I told you it would be ok
As I brushed you off
I kissed your knee
To ease the pain
You begin to cry
With those big brown eyes
All I could do
Was to hug you tight
As those tears continued run
I bounced you in my arms
To comfort you
As good father would
I sat us down
On those steps
To wipe the tears
That ran so clear
This was the day
When we first met
I knew just then
You were the son
That we could not have
I tell you this
You melted my heart
That much is true
For this could only mean one thing
For child as magnificent as you
It is only my love
That I could give to you
From that day forward
I knew it to be true
We would become
This new family of four
My son, you can make it
Although I am gone
You are not alone
God will see you through all of your trying times
As he sits on his throne
My son, you can make it
Please hold to God's unchanging hand
Being here was not one of God's promises
So it was meant for me to go
When the master made his call I couldn't say no
My son you can make it
To where I made it
For we will meet again face to face
When your work here is done
And thy heavenly father makes his calls for you to come one home
MY SON YOU CAN MAKE IT
My young son asks me: Must I learn mathematics?
What is the use, I feel like saying. That two pieces
Of bread are more than one's about all you'll end up with.
My young son asks me: Must I learn French?
What is the use, I feel like saying. This State's collapsing.
And if you just rub your belly with your hand and
Groan, you'll be understood with little trouble.
My young son asks me: Must I learn history?
What is the use, I feel like saying. Learn to stick
Your head in the earth, and maybe you'll still survive.
Yes, learn mathematics, I tell him.
Learn your French, learn your history!
'
stately tall you meekly stand
on your finger the signet band
for my sake you shunned your crown
for my breath your devotion fierce
you gave for me your sword and squire
your hospitality did never tire
proud brothers in battle or play
companionly we went about each day
in your shadow I had no care
my home's cupboards were never bare
song and merriment never missed
hunger a stranger to my lips
your place at court set second to mine
your heart pure - best fruit of the vine
your eyes reflect esteem so dear
no man's affection held so near
O gallant Prince in battle slain
my soul cries out for you in pain
why you've set Saul's crown on my head -
a long-held secret I shan't covet
My lord, could one ever repay;
the debt of friendship's love dismay?
to live this life as noble and true
to generously care and give as you
Prince of the Realm, if you could hear
the Scroll of the Upright, loud and clear
in the Song of the Bow proclaimed
praise of our filial bond inscribed.
'
Your hopeless patients will live,
Your healthy patients will die.
I have only this word to give:
Wonder, and find out why
You never heard tell of the story?
Well, now, I can hardly believe!
Never heard of the honour and glory
Of Pardon, the son of Reprieve?
But maybe you're only a Johnnie
And don't know a horse from a hoe?
Well, well, don't get angry, my sonny,
But, really, a young un should know.
They bred him out back on the "Never",
His mother was Mameluke breed.
To the front -- and then stay there - was ever
The root of the Mameluke creed.
He seemed to inherit their wiry
Strong frames -- and their pluck to receive --
As hard as a flint and as fiery
Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
We ran him at many a meeting
At crossing and gully and town,
And nothing could give him a beating --
At least when our money was down.
For weight wouldn't stop him, nor distance,
Nor odds, though the others were fast;
He'd race with a dogged persistence,
And wear them all down at the last.
At the Turon the Yattendon filly
Led by lengths at the mile-and-a-half,
And we all began to look silly,
While her crowd were starting to laugh;
But the old horse came faster and faster,
His pluck told its tale, and his strength,
He gained on her, caught her, and passed her,
And won it, hands down, by a length.
And then we swooped down on Menindie
To run for the President's Cup;
Oh! that's a sweet township -- a shindy
To them is board, lodging, and sup.
Eye-openers they are, and their system
Is never to suffer defeat;
It's "win, tie, or wrangle" -- to best 'em
You must lose 'em, or else it's "dead heat".
We strolled down the township and found 'em
At drinking and gaming and play;
If sorrows they had, why they drowned 'em,
And betting was soon under way.
Their horses were good uns and fit uns,
There was plenty of cash in the town;
They backed their own horses like Britons,
And, Lord! how we rattled it down!
With gladness we thought of the morrow,
We counted our wages with glee,
A simile homely to borrow --
"There was plenty of milk in our tea."
You see we were green; and we never
Had even a thought of foul play,
Though we well might have known that the clever
Division would "put us away".
Experience docet, they tell us,
At least so I've frequently heard;
But, "dosing" or "stuffing", those fellows
Were up to each move on the board:
They got to his stall -- it is sinful
To think what such villains will do --
And they gave him a regular skinful
Of barley -- green barley -- to chew.
He munched it all night, and we found him
Next morning as full as a hog --
The girths wouldn't nearly meet round him;
He looked like an overfed frog.
We saw we were done like a dinner --
The odds were a thousand to one
Against Pardon turning up winner,
'Twas cruel to ask him to run.
We got to the course with our troubles,
A crestfallen couple were we;
And we heard the " books" calling the doubles --
A roar like the surf of the sea.
And over the tumult and louder
Rang "Any price Pardon, I lay!"
Says Jimmy, "The children of Judah
Are out on the warpath today."
Three miles in three heats: -- Ah, my sonny,
The horses in those days were stout,
They had to run well to win money;
I don't see such horses about.
Your six-furlong vermin that scamper
Half-a-mile with their feather-weight up,
They wouldn't earn much of their damper
In a race like the President's Cup.
The first heat was soon set a-going;
The Dancer went off to the front;
The Don on his quarters was showing,
With Pardon right out of the hunt.
He rolled and he weltered and wallowed --
You'd kick your hat faster, I'll bet;
They finished all bunched, and he followed
All lathered and dripping with sweat.
But troubles came thicker upon us,
For while we were rubbing him dry
The stewards came over to warn us:
"We hear you are running a bye!
If Pardon don't spiel like tarnation
And win the next heat -- if he can --
He'll earn a disqualification;
Just think over that now, my man!"
Our money all gone and our credit,
Our horse couldn't gallop a yard;
And then people thought that we did it
It really was terribly hard.
We were objects of mirth and derision
To folks in the lawn and the stand,
Anf the yells of the clever division
Of "Any price Pardon!" were grand.
We still had a chance for the money,
Two heats remained to be run:
If both fell to us -- why, my sonny,
The clever division were done.
And Pardon was better, we reckoned,
His sickness was passing away,
So we went to the post for the second
And principal heat of the day.
They're off and away with a rattle,
Like dogs from the leashes let slip,
And right at the back of the battle
He followed them under the whip.
They gained ten good lengths on him quickly
He dropped right away from the pack;
I tell you it made me feel sickly
To see the blue jacket fall back.
Our very last hope had departed --
We thought the old fellow was done,
When all of a sudden he started
To go like a shot from a gun.
His chances seemed slight to embolden
Our hearts; but, with teeth firmly set,
We thought, "Now or never! The old un
May reckon with some of 'em yet."
Then loud rose the war-cry for Pardon;
He swept like the wind down the dip,
And over the rise by the garden
The jockey was done with the whip.
The field was at sixes and sevens --
The pace at the first had been fast --
And hope seemed to drop from the heavens,
For Pardon was coming at last.
And how he did come! It was splendid;
He gained on them yards every bound,
Stretching out like a greyhound extended,
His girth laid right down on the ground.
A shimmer of silk in the cedars
As into the running they wheeled,
And out flashed the whips on the leaders,
For Pardon had collared the field.
Then right through the ruck he was sailing --
I knew that the battle was won --
The son of Haphazard was failing,
The Yattendon filly was done;
He cut down The Don and The Dancer,
He raced clean away from the mare --
He's in front! Catch him now if you can, sir!
And up went my hat in the air!
Then loud fron the lawn and the garden
Rose offers of "Ten to one on!"
"Who'll bet on the field? I back Pardon!"
No use; all the money was gone.
He came for the third heat light-hearted,
A-jumping and dancing about;
The others were done ere they started
Crestfallen, and tired, and worn out.
He won it, and ran it much faster
Than even the first, I believe;
Oh, he was the daddy, the master,
Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
He showed 'em the method of travel --
The boy sat still as a stone --
They never could see him for gravel;
He came in hard-held, and alone.
* * * * * * *
But he's old -- and his eyes are grown hollow
Like me, with my thatch of the snow;
When he dies, then I hope I may follow,
And go where the racehorses go.
I don't want no harping nor singing --
Such things with my style don't agree;
Where the hoofs of the horses are ringing
There's music sufficient for me.
And surely the thoroughbred horses
Will rise up again and begin
Fresh faces on far-away courses,
And p'raps they might let me slip in.
It would look rather well the race-card on
'Mongst Cherubs and Seraphs and things,
"Angel Harrison's black gelding Pardon,
Blue halo, white body and wings."
And if they have racing hereafter,
(And who is to say they will not?)
When the cheers and the shouting and laughter
Proclaim that the battle grows hot;
As they come down the racecourse a-steering,
He'll rush to the front, I believe;
And you'll hear the great multitude cheering
For Pardon, the son of Reprieve
Farewell, thou child of my right hand, and joy;
My sin was too much hope of thee, lov'd boy.
Seven years thou'wert lent to me, and I thee pay,
Exacted by thy fate, on the just day.
O, could I lose all father now! For why
Will man lament the state he should envy?
To have so soon 'scap'd world's and flesh's rage,
And, if no other misery, yet age?
Rest in soft peace, and, ask'd, say here doth lie
Ben Jonson his best piece of poetry.
For whose sake, henceforth, all his vows be such,
As what he loves may never like too much.
Our Son the Soldier
How great a man he must be
To be joined in the fight to
set another part of the world free
Our Son the Soldier
So very proud of you we are
To all of us who love you,
you will always be our shining star
Our Son the Soldier
So far from home and in a foreign place
Just close your eyes to
see a familiar smiling face
Our Son the Soldier
So very far away
We will all be waiting with open
arms on your coming home day
'Let me have my share,
Oh, my dear father,
I'll seek my fortune
Abroad, ' said his second son.
In the form of gold his property
He gathered and took his journey
Into a far away country
Hoping for a life of bounty.
All his wealth he spent,
And he was left in want,
With his riotous living
And no help coming.
His hunt for a job in vain
Made him a servant to feed swine.
The swine-food-husks he ate,
And in regret, he cursed his fate.
He recalled the days bygone,
When the servants one by one,
Stood before him with folded hands
And obeyed all his commands.
A sinner, he felt, against Heaven
And wished to go back again
For seeking his father's pardon,
To forgive and forget his sin.
He lost his rights moral,
As he went out in quarrel,
And wished to join the farmhouse
As servant, not as son of the house.
His father saw his homecoming,
And went towards him fast running.
He hugged him and kissed him,
Showing all his compassion to him.
'Father, I've sinned against Heaven,
And I'm not worthy of thy son.
Forgive my sin, ' said the son,
'As a servant, please take me in'
The father brushed aside his words,
And to the servants gave orders
To give him best of the robes,
A golden ring, and polished shoes.
He ordered for a grand feast,
And to cook a calf, the one fattest,
To give his son the finest treat,
Welcoming his homeward retreat.
'My son was dead and alive again,
And was lost and now found again, '
So saying his father patted his son,
To the merriment of everyone.
The elder son in the field returned.
One of the servants mentioned
What, in his absence, happened
Which made him disheartened.
He stood, in anger, outside,
And refused to come inside,
As his father never gave him
Such a grand party to him.
'My son, with me your stay is long,
And all that I've, to you they belong.
He was dead and is alive somehow
He was lost and is found now.'
'You join us in this grand meet
To give him this welcome-treat
And let us forgive and forget
What he did as he knew not.'
Note: This is the first in a three-part series.
Nowhere, I'm going nowhere
Surely all these rules are to blame
So I'm going to leave tomorrow with my share
I'll live at last like I want, things will never be the same
Nowhere, I'm going nowhere
But with the partying, the women,
The popularity, why should I care?
Let me enjoy all of this, even if it is sin
Nowhere, I'm going nowhere
All my money and new 'friends' are gone
I'm so starved I'd eat the food I feed the pigs, I don't care
I'll go back to my father, he was right all along.
Nowhere, I'm going nowhere
My shame has come upon me
Can I look my father in his face, do I dare?
If I return, perhaps his lowest servant I could be
Nowhere, I'm going nowhere
I will never leave my place again, forsake my name
My father loves me, and treats me far more than fair
I am glad to be my father's son, and that this will always be the same
(November 19-20,2004)
Just give the world Good Morning,
Wish for the sun to shine,
Don't give the wind the warning,
He knows that we are fine.
And give the helpless, hope,
And give the poorest, dreams,
Don't give the weakest, dope,
Don't give the frightened, screams.
Raise your hands upon ones,
Give them what they deserve,
Tell them that even guns,
Ruin the world we serve.
Don't shake the earth so hard,
Don't send us fire, burns,
You always put in guard,
To fear for what one earns.
And as you say Good Morning,
And make us all apply,
Your rules, and if we're mourning,
Never tell us Goodbye.
You know that Love is God,
You see us from above,
And you think that is odd,
We know... that God is Love.
When you come home I'll not be round
To welcome you.
They'll take you to a grassy mound
So neat and new;
Where I'll be sleeping--O so sound!
The ages through.
I'll not be round to broom the hearth,
To feed the chicks;
And in the wee room of your birth
Your bed to fix;
Rose room that knew your baby mirth
Your tiny tricks.
I'll not be round . . . The garden still
With bees will hum;
To cheerful you the throstle's bill
Will not be dumb;
The rambler rose will overspill
When you will come.
Bird, bee and bloom, they'll greet you all
With scented sound;
Yet though the joy of your footfall
Will thrill the ground
Your mother with her old grey shawl--
Will not be round.
The answer to do you love me isn't, I married you, didn't I?
Or, Can't we discuss this after the ballgame is through?
It isn't, Well that all depends on what you mean by 'love'.
Or even, Come to bed and I'll prove that I do.
The answer isn't, How can I talk about love when
the bacon is burned and the house is an absolute mess and
the children are screaming their heads off and
I'm going to miss my bus?
The answer is yes.
The answer is yes.
The answer is yes.
'What bluid's that on thy coat lap?
Son Davie! Son Davie!
What bluid's that on thy coat lap?
And the truth come tell to me, O.'
'It is the bluid of my great hawk,
Mother lady, Mother lady!
It is the bluid of my great hawk,
And the truth I hae tald to thee, O.'
'Hawk's bluid was ne'er sae red,
Son Davie! Son Davie!
Hawk's bluid was ne'er sae red,
And the truth come tell to me, O.'
'It is the bluid of my grey hound,
Mother lady! Mother lady!
It is the bluid of my grey hound,
And it wudna rin for me, O.'
'Hound's bluid was ne'er sae red,
Son Davie! Son Davie!
Hound's bluid was ne'er sae red,
And the truth come tell to me, O.'
'It is the bluid o' my brother John,
Mother lady! Mother lady!
It is the bluid o' my brother John,
And the truth I hae tald to thee, O.'
'What about did the plea begin?
Son Davie! Son Davie!'
'It began about the cutting o' a willow wand,
That would never hae been a tree, O.'
'What death dost thou desire to die?
Son Davie! Son Davie!
What death dost thou desire to die?
And the truth come tell to me, O.'
'I'll set my foot in a bottomless ship,
Mother lady! mother lady!
I'll set my foot in a bottomless ship,
And ye'll never see mair o' me, O.'
'What wilt thou leave to thy poor wife?
Son Davie! Son Davie!'
'Grief and sorrow all her life,
And she'll never get mair frae me, O.'
'What wilt thou leave to thy young son?
Son Davie! son Davie!'
'The weary warld to wander up and down,
And he'll never get mair o' me, O.'
'What wilt thou leave to thy mother dear?
Son Davie! Son Davie!'
'A fire o' coals to burn her wi' hearty cheer,
And she'll never get mair o' me, O.'
1
Bright shadows of true Rest! some shoots of bliss,
Heaven once a week;
The next world's gladness prepossest in this;
A day to seek;
Eternity in time; the steps by which
We Climb above all ages; Lamps that light
Man through his heap of dark days; and the rich,
And full redemption of the whole week's flight.
2
The Pulleys unto headlong man; time's bower;
The narrow way;
Transplanted Paradise; God's walking hour;
The Cool o'th' day;
The Creatures' _Jubilee_; God's parle with dust;
Heaven here; Man on the hills of Myrrh, and flowers;
Angels descending; the Returns of Trust;
A Gleam of glory, after six-days'-showers.
3
The Church's love-feasts; Time's Prerogative,
And Interest
Deducted from the whole; The Combs, and hive,
And home of rest.
The milky way chalked out with suns; a clue
That guides through erring hours; and in full story
A taste of Heav'n on earth; the pledge, and cue
Of a full feast: And the Out Courts of glory.
Pour O pour that parting soul in song
O pour it in the sawdust glow of night
Into the velvet pine-smoke air tonight,
And let the valley carry it along.
And let the valley carry it along.
O land and soil, red soil and sweet-gum tree,
So scant of grass, so proligate of pines,
Now hust before an epoch's sun declines
Thy son, in time, I have returned to thee,
Thy son, I have in time returned to thee.
In time, for though the sun is setting on
A song-lit race of slaves, it has not set;
Though late, O soil, it is not too late yet
To catch thy plaintive soul, leaving, soon gone,
Leaving, to catch thy plaintive soul soon gone.
O Negro slaves, dark purple ripened plums,
Squeezed, and bursting in the pine-wood air,
Passing, before they stripped the old tree bare
One plum was saved for me, one seed becomes
an everlasting song, a singing tree,
Caroling softly souls of slavery,
What they were, and what they are to me,
Caroling softly souls of slavery.
Son, son oh my dear son, dear son,
What are you doing now there?
Are you busy in reading or writing?
Or are you busy in reciting poems?
This is wonder that technology tells,
Within fraction of second it connects,
Wherever you may be in far place,
I know you receive call of affection.
Go on writing your philosophical views,
You see life from deep within in truth,
Writing is perseverance, reading is too,
Observe sea and sky and forest carefully.
You go to seashore and see waves there,
Are you there near sea? Are you singing?
You are pure soul; God is like vast ocean,
Dear son, you connect him in lovely wave.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,10 July,2017. All rights reserved.
One Word of Thine can heal my wounded heart;
One look divine can work wonders from start;
One Word of Thine can change water to wine;
One touch of Thine can make a Leper fine.
Authority in Thine word's what we find;
Divinity, none can be than Thy mind;
Psychology of man, Thou know'st so well,
Who can with the Son of God, argue, tell.
What anger great, Thou hast shown in some place!
Thine advice can soothe any angry face;
Thine parables drive home morals so great;
Sin's the thing, not the sinner, Thou did hate.
What love Thou had shown to the poor brethren?
And kindness too to the atheist, heathen.
A father loves that son, who most obeys,
And maintains sense of values in his life,
And tends to parents when old, in last days,
With faith in God, unswerving, amidst strife.
A son loves father who is role-model,
And lives an exemplary life on earth,
Good-principled, undaunted, healthy, well,
And loves the son, whole-heartedly from birth.
With time, the son must equal father’s feats,
Surpassing him in fields where possible;
The father’s happy when son, glory meets,
And does great things which were impossible.
Like father, so will son then tend to be-
A truth the world will almost, always see.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-3-2008
son of hidden sun
lead them with invocation
isn't with flying lizard
that will make you more sincere
son of hidden sun
enforce them with patience
isn't by force
that will make you more devout
son of hidden sun
gaze that hates you as best friends
not as enemy
that will make you more love
son of hidden sun
reply they angry with love
isn't with resentment
that will make you more patience
Can it be the sun descending
O'er the level plain of water?
Or the Red Swan floating, flying,
Wounded by the magic arrow,
Staining all the waves with crimson,
With the crimson of its life-blood,
Filling all the air with splendor,
With the splendor of its plumage?
Yes; it is the sun descending,
Sinking down into the water;
All the sky is stained with purple,
All the water flushed with crimson!
No; it is the Red Swan floating,
Diving down beneath the water;
To the sky its wings are lifted,
With its blood the waves are reddened!
Over it the Star of Evening
Melts and trembles through the purple,
Hangs suspended in the twilight.
No; it is a bead of wampum
On the robes of the Great Spirit
As he passes through the twilight,
Walks in silence through the heavens.
This with joy beheld Iagoo
And he said in haste: "Behold it!
See the sacred Star of Evening!
You shall hear a tale of wonder,
Hear the story of Osseo,
Son of the Evening Star, Osseo!
"Once, in days no more remembered,
Ages nearer the beginning,
When the heavens were closer to us,
And the Gods were more familiar,
In the North-land lived a hunter,
With ten young and comely daughters,
Tall and lithe as wands of willow;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
She the wilful and the wayward,
She the silent, dreamy maiden,
Was the fairest of the sisters.
"All these women married warriors,
Married brave and haughty husbands;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Laughed and flouted all her lovers,
All her young and handsome suitors,
And then married old Osseo,
Old Osseo, poor and ugly,
Broken with age and weak with coughing,
Always coughing like a squirrel.
"Ah, but beautiful within him
Was the spirit of Osseo,
From the Evening Star descended,
Star of Evening, Star of Woman,
Star of tenderness and passion!
All its fire was in his bosom,
All its beauty in his spirit,
All its mystery in his being,
All its splendor in his language!
"And her lovers, the rejected,
Handsome men with belts of wampum,
Handsome men with paint and feathers.
Pointed at her in derision,
Followed her with jest and laughter.
But she said: 'I care not for you,
Care not for your belts of wampum,
Care not for your paint and feathers,
Care not for your jests and laughter;
I am happy with Osseo!'
'Once to some great feast invited,
Through the damp and dusk of evening,
Walked together the ten sisters,
Walked together with their husbands;
Slowly followed old Osseo,
With fair Oweenee beside him;
All the others chatted gayly,
These two only walked in silence.
"At the western sky Osseo
Gazed intent, as if imploring,
Often stopped and gazed imploring
At the trembling Star of Evening,
At the tender Star of Woman;
And they heard him murmur softly,
'Ah, showain nemeshin, Nosa!
Pity, pity me, my father!'
'Listen!' said the eldest sister,
'He is praying to his father!
What a pity that the old man
Does not stumble in the pathway,
Does not break his neck by falling!'
And they laughed till all the forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"On their pathway through the woodlands
Lay an oak, by storms uprooted,
Lay the great trunk of an oak-tree,
Buried half in leaves and mosses,
Mouldering, crumbling, huge and hollow.
And Osseo, when he saw it,
Gave a shout, a cry of anguish,
Leaped into its yawning cavern,
At one end went in an old man,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly;
From the other came a young man,
Tall and straight and strong and handsome.
"Thus Osseo was transfigured,
Thus restored to youth and beauty;
But, alas for good Osseo,
And for Oweenee, the faithful!
Strangely, too, was she transfigured.
Changed into a weak old woman,
With a staff she tottered onward,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly!
And the sisters and their husbands
Laughed until the echoing forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"But Osseo turned not from her,
Walked with slower step beside her,
Took her hand, as brown and withered
As an oak-leaf is in Winter,
Called her sweetheart, Nenemoosha,
Soothed her with soft words of kindness,
Till they reached the lodge of feasting,
Till they sat down in the wigwam,
Sacred to the Star of Evening,
To the tender Star of Woman.
"Wrapt in visions, lost in dreaming,
At the banquet sat Osseo;
All were merry, all were happy,
All were joyous but Osseo.
Neither food nor drink he tasted,
Neither did he speak nor listen;
But as one bewildered sat he,
Looking dreamily and sadly,
First at Oweenee, then upward
At the gleaming sky above them.
"Then a voice was heard, a whisper,
Coming from the starry distance,
Coming from the empty vastness,
Low, and musical, and tender;
And the voice said: 'O Osseo!
O my son, my best beloved!
Broken are the spells that bound you,
All the charms of the magicians,
All the magic powers of evil;
Come to me; ascend, Osseo!
"'Taste the food that stands before you:
It is blessed and enchanted,
It has magic virtues in it,
It will change you to a spirit.
All your bowls and all your kettles
Shall be wood and clay no longer;
But the bowls be changed to wampum,
And the kettles shall be silver;
They shall shine like shells of scarlet,
Like the fire shall gleam and glimmer.
"'And the women shall no longer
Bear the dreary doom of labor,
But be changed to birds, and glisten
With the beauty of the starlight,
Painted with the dusky splendors
Of the skies and clouds of evening!'
"What Osseo heard as whispers,
What as words he comprehended,
Was but music to the others,
Music as of birds afar off,
Of the whippoorwill afar off,
Of the lonely Wawonaissa
Singing in the darksome forest.
"Then the lodge began to tremble,
Straight began to shake and tremble,
And they felt it rising, rising,
Slowly through the air ascending,
From the darkness of the tree-tops
Forth into the dewy starlight,
Till it passed the topmost branches;
And behold! the wooden dishes
All were changed to shells of scarlet!
And behold! the earthen kettles
All were changed to bowls of silver!
And the roof-poles of the wigwam
Were as glittering rods of silver,
And the roof of bark upon them
As the shining shards of beetles.
"Then Osseo gazed around him,
And he saw the nine fair sisters,
All the sisters and their husbands,
Changed to birds of various plumage.
Some were jays and some were magpies,
Others thrushes, others blackbirds;
And they hopped, and sang, and twittered,
Perked and fluttered all their feathers,
Strutted in their shining plumage,
And their tails like fans unfolded.
"Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Was not changed, but sat in silence,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly,
Looking sadly at the others;
Till Osseo, gazing upward,
Gave another cry of anguish,
Such a cry as he had uttered
By the oak-tree in the forest.
"Then returned her youth and beauty,
And her soiled and tattered garments
Were transformed to robes of ermine,
And her staff became a feather,
Yes, a shining silver feather!
"And again the wigwam trembled,
Swayed and rushed through airy currents,
Through transparent cloud and vapor,
And amid celestial splendors
On the Evening Star alighted,
As a snow-flake falls on snow-flake,
As a leaf drops on a river,
As the thistledown on water.
"Forth with cheerful words of welcome
Came the father of Osseo,
He with radiant locks of silver,
He with eyes serene and tender.
And he said: `My son, Osseo,
Hang the cage of birds you bring there,
Hang the cage with rods of silver,
And the birds with glistening feathers,
At the doorway of my wigwam.'
"At the door he hung the bird-cage,
And they entered in and gladly
Listened to Osseo's father,
Ruler of the Star of Evening,
As he said: `O my Osseo!
I have had compassion on you,
Given you back your youth and beauty,
Into birds of various plumage
Changed your sisters and their husbands;
Changed them thus because they mocked you
In the figure of the old man,
In that aspect sad and wrinkled,
Could not see your heart of passion,
Could not see your youth immortal;
Only Oweenee, the faithful,
Saw your naked heart and loved you.
"`In the lodge that glimmers yonder,
In the little star that twinkles
Through the vapors, on the left hand,
Lives the envious Evil Spirit,
The Wabeno, the magician,
Who transformed you to an old man.
Take heed lest his beams fall on you,
For the rays he darts around him
Are the power of his enchantment,
Are the arrows that he uses.'
"Many years, in peace and quiet,
On the peaceful Star of Evening
Dwelt Osseo with his father;
Many years, in song and flutter,
At the doorway of the wigwam,
Hung the cage with rods of silver,
And fair Oweenee, the faithful,
Bore a son unto Osseo,
With the beauty of his mother,
With the courage of his father.
"And the boy grew up and prospered,
And Osseo, to delight him,
Made him little bows and arrows,
Opened the great cage of silver,
And let loose his aunts and uncles,
All those birds with glossy feathers,
For his little son to shoot at.
"Round and round they wheeled and darted,
Filled the Evening Star with music,
With their songs of joy and freedom
Filled the Evening Star with splendor,
With the fluttering of their plumage;
Till the boy, the little hunter,
Bent his bow and shot an arrow,
Shot a swift and fatal arrow,
And a bird, with shining feathers,
At his feet fell wounded sorely.
"But, O wondrous transformation!
`T was no bird he saw before him,
`T was a beautiful young woman,
With the arrow in her bosom!
"When her blood fell on the planet,
On the sacred Star of Evening,
Broken was the spell of magic,
Powerless was the strange enchantment,
And the youth, the fearless bowman,
Suddenly felt himself descending,
Held by unseen hands, but sinking
Downward through the empty spaces,
Downward through the clouds and vapors,
Till he rested on an island,
On an island, green and grassy,
Yonder in the Big-Sea-Water.
"After him he saw descending
All the birds with shining feathers,
Fluttering, falling, wafted downward,
Like the painted leaves of Autumn;
And the lodge with poles of silver,
With its roof like wings of beetles,
Like the shining shards of beetles,
By the winds of heaven uplifted,
Slowly sank upon the island,
Bringing back the good Osseo,
Bringing Oweenee, the faithful.
"Then the birds, again transfigured,
Reassumed the shape of mortals,
Took their shape, but not their stature;
They remained as Little People,
Like the pygmies, the Puk-Wudjies,
And on pleasant nights of Summer,
When the Evening Star was shining,
Hand in hand they danced together
On the island's craggy headlands,
On the sand-beach low and level.
"Still their glittering lodge is seen there,
On the tranquil Summer evenings,
And upon the shore the fisher
Sometimes hears their happy voices,
Sees them dancing in the starlight !"
When the story was completed,
When the wondrous tale was ended,
Looking round upon his listeners,
Solemnly Iagoo added:
"There are great men, I have known such,
Whom their people understand not,
Whom they even make a jest of,
Scoff and jeer at in derision.
From the story of Osseo
Let us learn the fate of jesters!"
All the wedding guests delighted
Listened to the marvellous story,
Listened laughing and applauding,
And they whispered to each other:
"Does he mean himself, I wonder?
And are we the aunts and uncles?"
Then again sang Chibiabos,
Sang a song of love and longing,
In those accents sweet and tender,
In those tones of pensive sadness,
Sang a maiden's lamentation
For her lover, her Algonquin.
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Ah me! when I parted from him,
Round my neck he hung the wampum,
As a pledge, the snow-white wampum,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"`I will go with you, he whispered,
Ah me! to your native country;
Let me go with you, he whispered,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Far away, away, I answered,
Very far away, I answered,
Ah me! is my native country,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I looked back to behold him,
Where we parted, to behold him,
After me he still was gazing,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"By the tree he still was standing,
By the fallen tree was standing,
That had dropped into the water,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!"
Such was Hiawatha's Wedding,
Such the dance of Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Such the story of Iagoo,
Such the songs of Chibiabos;
Thus the wedding banquet ended,
And the wedding guests departed,
Leaving Hiawatha happy
With the night and Minnehaha.
Son of the moon
You are brilliant
You are bright
We wanted so much to apologize because we didn’t know you that Well before
Son of the moon
Yes we are both guilty of that
Son of the moon
We had been more occupied with ourselves
Son of the moon
We think that it was so silly and selfish
Only now we realize that
Son of the moon
You are a friend of the sky
The sky would be lost without you
We would be lost without you also
Son of the moon
We know the real you
Son of the moon
We know this innocent world that it is only in our minds
In reality it is not an innocent world
It is an ugly picture that we all paint
And of course it will always remain in our minds
Son of the moon
Dear Lord you know the son of the moon
You created it also
Lets embrace
The son of the moon
Son of the moon
If we will ever find love we hope it will last forever
Son of the moon
We are the warriors of the earth
We fight for freedom
We fight for love
We fight for peace
We fight for what we believe in
Son of the moon
run
jump
climb
smile
laugh
fall
fight< br>swim
cry
scream
wake
eat
dr ink
play
sleep
let grow
let tell
let move
let think
let walk
free like birds
free like trees
free like stars
free like winds
free like seas
our gift
our mirror
our feel
our love
our next
He hurried away, young heart of joy, under our Devon sky!
And I watched him go, my beautiful boy, and a weary woman was I.
For my hair is grey, and his was gold; he'd the best of his life to live;
And I'd loved him so, and I'm old, I'm old; and he's all I had to give.
Ah yes, he was proud and swift and gay, but oh how my eyes were dim!
With the sun in his heart he went away, but he took the sun with him.
For look! How the leaves are falling now, and the winter won't be long. . . .
Oh boy, my boy with the sunny brow, and the lips of love and of song!
How we used to sit at the day's sweet end, we two by the firelight's gleam,
And we'd drift to the Valley of Let's Pretend, on the beautiful river of Dream.
Oh dear little heart! All wealth untold would I gladly, gladly pay
Could I just for a moment closely hold that golden head to my grey.
For I gaze in the fire, and I'm seeing there a child, and he waves to me;
And I run and I hold him up in the air, and he laughs and shouts with glee;
A little bundle of love and mirth, crying: "Come, Mumsie dear!"
Ah me! If he called from the ends of the earth I know that my heart would hear.
Yet the thought comes thrilling through all my pain: how worthier could he die?
Yea, a loss like that is a glorious gain, and pitiful proud am I.
For Peace must be bought with blood and tears, and the boys of our hearts must pay;
And so in our joy of the after-years, let us bless them every day.
And though I know there's a hasty grave with a poor little cross at its head,
And the gold of his youth he so gladly gave, yet to me he'll never be dead.
And the sun in my Devon lane will be gay, and my boy will be with me still,
So I'm finding the heart to smile and say: "Oh God, if it be Thy Will!"
You are born as a beautiful child.
Your parents had a dream to make you
a wonderful and worthy child
They did their best for you with
their struggle and pain.
Now they have pain in their heart to know
you are taking drugs
Their worries and pain in their heart you can not see
The tears on their face, you can not wipe
They have loved you and taken care on you.
Why should you take drugs
These are bad for you and kill you slowly
They make you crazy and lazy
Your cough will take your parents breath away
Your ruin health will kill your parents slowly
Not only you ruin your life but also your parents
Say no to drugs and save your life
Say no to drugs and take your parents worries away
Say no to drugs and save your nation's future
You have dream and make it come true
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright ©2004 Ravi Sathasivam
Something has gone wrong with meaning of words,
'Sun' and 'Son' beautiful creation of lords,
Both represent energy having sharpness of swords,
Both are crucial for survival and existence of world,
Son is embodiment of energy and power,
Darkness disappears when sun rays appear,
All worship Sun god and offer prayer
Light may appear through clouds from layer
Son is source of great hope and despair,
Damage caused may be more and beyond repair,
Sun renders service which we can't compare,
Rising daily from east and non appearance rare,
Parent pray for sun to have light in home,
Worshiping many Gods and visiting Rome
Hoping lamp in huts to light and shine,
Praying for son to almighty and divine,
Sun may have power with scorching heat,
Son may also show some kind of daring feat,
Each may be scoring and beating record,
One may prove……………………..
Sun may hide face in dark night,
Parents may cry for son during day light,
Daily scuffles on with wordy fight,
Whom do we blame for want of light?
Many may be blessed with intelligent son,
They should always rejoice with simple reason
Greed may run high with aim only gain,
Parent should not keep that only aim
Many parents may not come out and openly speak,
Dryness and worry on face and future seems bleak,
Both are welcome in life and are so dear,
No parent may prefer bad words to hear
We can't afford for loss of any one
Fate may not be same as faced by everyone
The irony of fact remains almost same in nature
We should not blame anybody in near future
Is it an end of life or start of the game?
Do the children take on for simple fame?
Will situation remain for all times to come?
Will they not blame and refuse to welcome
I help warm the bench and cheer for my team.
I join in the huddles and listen and scheme.
I line up and join in the Star Spangled Banner
With the rest of the team in a very proud manner.
I wait for a beckon from my coaches hand
As I check out the cheerleaders or watch the pep band.
Coach looks at me, a starter needs rest.
My heart pounds like I'm taking a test!
I look down the bench, coach can't want me!
Oh why do have this darn shaky knee?
I kneel and tell the scorekeeper my name.
I cannot believe it, I'm now in the game!
The fans are cheering and clapping their hands!
In awe, I want to gape at the stands.
I feel like waving at my mom and my dad.
It's me out here, your lanky young lad! '
The moment has come to show my stuff!
But alas, time flies and coach says, 'Enough.'
With a pat on my back and the words, 'Well done! '
Such a short time to be 'Super Basketball Son! '
'You did your job and did it well!
Relief to a starter you gave for a spell.
He will help win the game because of you.
Starters are parts, bench warmers the glue! '
COUNT.
I KNOW a flower of beauty rare,
Ah, how I hold it dear!
To seek it I would fain repair,
Were I not prison'd here.
My sorrow sore oppresses me,
For when I was at liberty,
I had it close beside me.
Though from this castle's walls so steep
I cast mine eyes around,
And gaze oft from the lofty keep,
The flower can not be found.
Whoe'er would bring it to my sight,
Whether a vassal he, or knight,
My dearest friend I'd deem him.
THE ROSE.
I blossom fair,--thy tale of woes
I hear from 'neath thy grate.
Thou doubtless meanest me, the rose.
Poor knight of high estate!
Thou hast in truth a lofty mind;
The queen of flowers is then enshrin'd,
I doubt not, in thy bosom.
COUNT.
Thy red, in dress of green array'd,
As worth all praise I hold;
And so thou'rt treasured by each maid
Like precious stones or gold.
Thy wreath adorns the fairest face
But still thou'rt not the flower whose grace
I honour here in silence.
THE LILY.
The rose is wont with pride to swell,
And ever seeks to rise;
But gentle sweethearts love full well
The lily's charms to prize,
The heart that fills a bosom true,
That is, like me, unsullied too,
My merit values duly.
COUNT.
In truth, I hope myself unstain'd,
And free from grievous crime;
Yet I am here a prisoner chain'd,
And pass in grief my time,
To me thou art an image sure
Of many a maiden, mild and pure,
And yet I know a dearer.
THE PINK.
That must be me, the pink, who scent
The warder's garden here;
Or wherefore is he so intent
My charms with care to rear?
My petals stand in beauteous ring,
Sweet incense all around I fling,
And boast a thousand colours.
COUNT.
The pink in truth we should not slight,
It is the gardener's pride
It now must stand exposed to light,
Now in the shade abide.
Yet what can make the Count's heart glow
Is no mere pomp of outward show;
It is a silent flower.
THE VIOLET.
Here stand I, modestly half hid,
And fain would silence keep;
Yet since to speak I now am bid,
I'll break my silence deep.
If, worthy Knight, I am that flower,
It grieves me that I have not power
To breathe forth all my sweetness.
COUNT.
The violet's charms I prize indeed,
So modest 'tis, and fair,
And smells so sweet; yet more I need
To ease my heavy care.
The truth I'll whisper in thine ear:
Upon these rocky heights so drear,
I cannot find the loved one.
The truest maiden 'neath the sky
Roams near the stream below,
And breathes forth many a gentle sigh,
Till I from hence can go.
And when she plucks a flow'ret blue,
And says "Forget-me-not!"--I, too,
Though far away, can feel it.
Ay, distance only swells love's might,
When fondly love a pair;
Though prison'd in the dungeon's night,
In life I linger there
And when my heart is breaking nigh,
"Forget-me-not!" is all I cry,
And straightway life returneth.
Mr Pierce the butcher
Got news his son was missing
About a month before
The closing of the war.
A bald man, tall and careful,
He stood in his shop and found
No bottom to his sadness,
Nowhere for it to stop.
When my aunt came through the door
Delivering the milk,
He spoke, with his quiet air
Of a considerate teacher,
But words weren't up to it,
He turned back to the meat.
The message was in error.
Later that humid summer
At a local high school fete,
I saw, returned, the son
Still in his uniform.
Mr Pierce was not there
But was as if implied
In the son who looked like him
Except he had red hair.
For I recall him well
Encircled by his friends,
Beaming a life charged now
Doubly because restored,
And recall also how
Within his hearty smile
His lips contained his father's
Like a light within the light
That he turned everywhere.
"Here the hangman stops his cart:
Now the best of friends must part.
Fare you well, for ill fare I:
Live, lads, and I will die.
"Oh, at home had I but stayed
'Prenticed to my father's trade,
Had I stuck to plane and adze,
I had not been lost, my lads.
"Then I might have built perhaps
Gallows-trees for other chaps,
Never dangled on my own,
Had I left but ill alone.
"Now, you see, they hang me high,
And the people passing by
Stop to shake their fists and curse;
So 'tis come from ill to worse.
"Here hang I, and right and left
Two poor fellows hang for theft:
All the same's the luck we prove,
Though the midmost hangs for love.
"Comrades all, that stand and gaze,
Walk henceforth in other ways;
See my neck and save your own:
Comrades all, leave ill alone.
"Make some day a decent end,
Shrewder fellows than your friend.
Fare you well, for ill fare I:
Live lads, and I will die."
The summer dawn came over-soon,
The earth was like hot iron at noon
In Nazareth;
There fell no rain to ease the heat,
And dusk drew on with tired feet
And stifled breath.
The shop was low and hot and square,
And fresh-cut wood made sharp the air,
While all day long
The saw went tearing thru the oak
That moaned as tho' the tree's heart broke
Beneath its wrong.
The narrow street was full of cries,
Of bickering and snarling lies
In many keys--
The tongues of Egypt and of Rome
And lands beyond the shifting foam
Of windy seas.
Sometimes a ruler riding fast
Scattered the dark crowds as he passed,
And drove them close
In doorways, drawing broken breath
Lest they be trampled to their death
Where the dust rose.
There in the gathering night and noise
A group of Galilean boys
Crowding to see
Gray Joseph toiling with his son,
Saw Jesus, when the task was done,
Turn wearily.
He passed them by with hurried tread
Silently, nor raised his head,
He who looked up
Drinking all beauty from his birth
Out of the heaven and the earth
As from a cup.
And Mary, who was growing old,
Knew that the pottage would be cold
When he returned;
He hungered only for the night,
And westward, bending sharp and bright,
The thin moon burned.
He reached the open western gate
Where whining halt and leper wait,
And came at last
To the blue desert, where the deep
Great seas of twilight lay asleep,
Windless and vast.
With shining eyes the stars awoke,
The dew lay heavy on his cloak,
The world was dim;
And in the stillness he could hear
His secret thoughts draw very near
And call to him.
Faint voices lifted shrill with pain
And multitudinous as rain;
From all the lands
And all the villages thereof
Men crying for the gift of love
With outstretched hands.
Voices that called with ceaseless crying,
The broken and the blind, the dying,
And those grown dumb
Beneath oppression, and he heard
Upon their lips a single word,
"Come!"
Their cries engulfed him like the night,
The moon put out her placid light
And black and low
Nearer the heavy thunder drew,
Hushing the voices . . . yet he knew
That he would go.
A quick-spun thread of lightning burns,
And for a flash the day returns--
He only hears
Joseph, an old man bent and white
Toiling alone from morn till night
Thru all the years.
Swift clouds make all the heavens blind,
A storm is running on the wind--
He only sees
How Mary will stretch out her hands
Sobbing, who never understands
Voices like these.
The Light.
The chosen Son,
Cleanses our bloodstained robes,
To purify our hearts before God.
-Savior-
4-27-06
You came here from Sơn city, running away from enemy
I also left home since participating in war activity
I have been far away from Bất Bạt many days
Blue evenings see no Ba Vì mountain.
Your forehead caries the country sky
Your eyes are like well water of village
I have longed for Đoài with white clouds very much
Have you also mourned many days? ...
Have you seen my mother somewhere?
Many corpses of old people piled up on rice paddies
I've longed for my little young brother
So many children corpses floated down rivers
Since arrival of autumn, many people fled from enemy
Desolated places annexed desolated places
Many streams of tears have flown ground of dry laterite
Have your tears overflown many days? ...
The eyes of miss Sơn Tây
Filled with worries one wandering evening
Mourned for gardens and rice paddies without ceasing.
When can one return to visit fields of Bương Cấn
To watch amber rice fields around Sài Sơn mountain
Đáy River that flows slowly through Phủ Quốc
And kite flute that sings late into a moonlit night?
When I have a chance to meet you again
That will be the day of peace with many happy songs
And old seasons of warfare already left behind.
Will you ever think of me?
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
3/26/2017
Above is translation poem of the Vietnamese Poem of QUANG DŨNG:
ĐÔI MẮT NGƯỜI SƠN TÂY
Em ở thành Sơn chạy giặc về
Tôi từ chinh chiến cũng ra đi
Cách biệt bao ngày quê Bất Bạt
Chiều xanh không thấy núi Ba Vì
Vừng trán em mang trời quê hương
Mắt em như nước giếng thôn làng
Tôi nhớ xứ Đoài mây trắng lắm
Em đã bao ngày em nhớ thương? ...
Mẹ tôi em có gặp đâu không?
Những xác già nua ngập cánh đồng
Tôi nhớ một thằng em bé nhỏ
Bao nhiêu rồi xác trẻ trôi sông
Từ độ thu về hoang bóng giặc
Điêu tàn ơi lại nối điêu tàn
Đất đá ong khô nhiều suối lệ
Em đã bao ngày lệ chứa chan?
Đôi mắt người Sơn Tây
U uẩn chiều lưu lạc
Thương vườn ruộng khôn khuây
Bao giờ trở lại đồng Bương Cấn
Về núi Sài Sơn ngó lúa vàng
Sông Đáy chậm nguồn qua Phủ Quốc
Sáo diều khuya khoắt thổi đêm trăng
Bao giờ tôi gặp em lần nữa
Chắc đã thanh bình rộn tiếng ca
Đã hết sắc mùa chinh chiến cũ
Còn có bao giờ em nhớ ta?
1949
QUANG DŨNG
He is serving three years for armed robbery but the mother says my son is not a crim
He is not the one who robbed the uptown drug store for someone else the cashier mistook him
My son has told me that he is not guilty and what he tells me I always believe
He is a kind, honest and loving person and does not use guns and is not known to deceive
The mother believes her son has been wrongfully imprisoned she says my son should not be serving time
My son was mistaken for a lookalike person he was not anywhere near the scene of the crime
Of course she believes what her son did tell her even though her son told her a blatant lie
And she will go on believing he has been wronged right up until the moment that she die
You will not find a love truer or greater than the love a mother has for her daughter or son
She stands by them through their trials and tribulations her offspring in her life are number one
A good mother will stick up for her children despite what others of them have to say
She will always be there for to support them when all others from them turn away
Her son has served a third of his three year sentence she visits him every second day
She says my son he is not even guilty for someone else's crime why should he pay?
I have a dream -- a dreadful dream --
A dream that is never done.
I watch a man go out of his mind,
And he is My Mother's Son.
They pushed him into a Mental Home,
And that is like the grave:
For they do not let you sleep upstairs,
And you aren't allowed to shave.
And it was not disease or crime
Which got him landed there,
But because They laid on My Mother's Son
More than a man could bear.
What with noise, and fear of death,
Waking, and wounds and cold,
They filled the Cup for My Mother's Son
Fuller than it could hold.
They broke his body and his mind
And yet They made him live,
And They asked more of My Mother's Son
Than any man could give.
For, just because he had not died,
Nor been discharged nor sick,
They dragged it out with My Mother's Son
Longer than he could stick....
And no one knows when he'll get well --
So, there he'll have to be:
And, 'spite of the beard in the looking-glass,
I know that man is me!
'Twas in the year of 1746, on a fine summer afternoon,
When trees and flowers were in full bloom,
That widow Riddel sat knitting stockings on a little rustic seat,
Which her only son had made for her, which was very neat.
The cottage she lived in was in the wilds of Nithsdale,
Where many a poor soul had cause to bewail
The loss of their shealings, that were burned to the ground,
By a party of fierce British dragoons that chanced to come round.
While widow Riddel sat in her garden she heard an unusual sound,
And near by was her son putting some seeds into the ground,
And as she happened to look down into the little strath below
She espied a party of dragoons coming towards her very slow.
And hearing of the cruelties committed by them, she shook with fear.
And she cried to her son, "Jamie, thae sodgers are coming here!"
While the poor old widow's heart with fear was panting,
And she cried, "Mercy on us, Jamie, what can they be wanting?"
Next minute the dragoons were in front of the cottage door,
When one of them dismounted, and loudly did roar,
"Is there any rebels, old woman, skulking hereabouts?"
"Oh, no, Sir, no! believe my word without any doubts."
"Well, so much the better, my good woman, for you and them;
But, old girl, let's have something to eat, me, and my men":
"Blithely, sir, blithely! ye're welcome to what I hae,"
When she bustled into the cottage without delay.
And she brought out oaten cakes, sweet milk, and cheese,
Which the soldiers devoured greedily at their ease,
And of which they made a hearty meal,
But, for such kind treatment, ungrateful they did feel.
Then one of the soldiers asked her how she got her living:
She replied, "God unto her was always giving;
And wi' the bit garden, alang wi' the bit coo,
And wi' what the laddie can earn we are sincerely thankfu'."
To this pitiful detail of her circumstances the villain made no reply,
But drew a pistol from his holster, and cried, "Your cow must die!"
Then riding up to the poor cow, discharged it through her head,
When the innocent animal instantly fell down dead.
Not satisfied with this the merciless ruffian leaped the little garden wall,
And with his horse trod down everything, the poor widow's all,
Then having finished this barbarous act of direst cruelty,
The monster rejoined his comrades shouting right merrily:
"There, you old devil, that's what you really deserve,
For you and your rascally rebels ought to starve";
Then the party rode off, laughing at the mischief that was done,
Leaving the poor widow to mourn and her only son.
When the widow found herself deprived of her all,
She wrung her hands in despair, and on God did call,
Then rushed into the cottage and flung herself on her bed,
And, with sorrow, in a few days she was dead.
And, during her illness, her poor boy never left her bedside,
There he remained, night and day, his mother's wants to provide,
And make her forget the misfortunes that had befallen them,
All through that villainous and hard-hearted party of men.
On the fourth day her son followed her remains to the grave.
And during the burial service he most manfully did behave,
And when the body was laid in the grave, from tears he could not refrain,
But instantly fled from that desolated place, and never returned again.
Thirteen years after this the famous battle of Minden was fought
By Prince Ferdinand against the French, who brought them to nought;
And there was a large body of British horse, under Lord George Sackville,
And strange! the widow's son was at the battle all the while.
And on the evening after the battle there were assembled in a tavern
A party of British dragoons, loudly boasting and swearing,
When one of them swore he had done more than any of them--
A much more meritorious action-- which he defied them to condemn .
"What was that, Tam, what was that, Tam?" shouted his companions at once.
"Tell us, Tam; tell us, Tam, was that while in France?"
"No!" he cried, "it was starving an old witch, while in Nithsdale,
By shooting her cow and riding down her greens, that is the tale."
"And don't you repent it?" exclaimed a young soldier, present.
"Repent what?" cried the braggart; "No! I feel quite content."
"Then, villain!" cried the youth, unsheathing his sword,
"That woman was my mother, so not another word!
"So draw, and defend yourself, without more delay,
For I swear you shall not live another day!"
Then the villain sprang to his feet, and a combat ensued,
But in three passes he was entirely subdued.
Young Riddell afterwards rose to be a captain
In the British service, and gained a very good name
For being a daring soldier, wherever he went,
And as for killing the ruffian dragoon he never did repent.
The North Star whispers: "You are one
Of those whose course no chance can change.
You blunder, but are not undone,
Your spirit-task is fixed and strange.
"When here you walk, a bloodless shade,
A singer all men else forget.
Your chants of hammer, forge and spade
Will move the prarie-village yet.
"That young, stiff-necked, reviling town
Beholds your fancies on her walls,
And paints them out or tears them down,
Or bars them from her feasting halls.
"Yet shall the fragments still remain;
Yet shall remain some watch-tower strong
That ivy-vines will not disdain,
Haunted and trembling with your song.
"Your flambeau in the dusk shall burn,
Flame high in storms, flame white and clear;
Your ghost in gleaming robes return
And burn a deathless incense here."
She dropped the bar, she shot the bolt, she fed the fire anew
For she heard a whimper under the sill and a great grey paw came through.
The fresh flame comforted the hut and shone on the roof-beam,
And the Only Son lay down again and dreamed that he dreamed a dream.
The last ash fell from the withered log with the click of a falling spark,
And the Only Son woke up again, and called across the dark:--
"Now was I born of womankind and laid in a mother's breast?
For I have dreamed of a shaggy hide whereon I went to rest.
And was I born of womankind and laid on a father's arm?
For I have dreamed of clashing teeth that guarded me from harm.
And was I born an Only Son and did I play alone?
For I have dreamed of comrades twain that bit me to the bone.
And did I break the barley-cake and steep it in the tyre?
For I have dreamed of a youngling kid new-riven from the byre:
For I have dreamed of a midnight sky and a midnight call to blood
And red-mouthed shadows racing by, that thrust me from my food.
'Tis an hour yet and an hour yet to the rising of the moon,
But I can see the black roof-tree as plain as it were noon.
'Tis a league and a league to the Lena Falls where the trooping blackbuck go;
But I can hear the little fawn that bleats behind the doe.
'Tis a league and a league to the Lena Falls where the crop and the upland meet,
But I Can smell the wet dawn-wind that wakes the sprouting wheat.
Unbar the door. I may not bide, but I must out and see
If those are wolves that wait outside or my own kin to me!"
. . . . .
She loosed the bar, she slid the bolt, she opened the door anon,
And a grey bitch-wolf came out of the dark and fawned on the Only Son!
This is the song of the parson's son, as he squats in his shack alone,
On the wild, weird nights, when the Northern Lights shoot up from the frozen zone,
And it's sixty below, and couched in the snow the hungry huskies moan:
"I'm one of the Arctic brotherhood, I'm an old-time pioneer.
I came with the first -- O God! how I've cursed this Yukon -- but still I'm here.
I've sweated athirst in its summer heat, I've frozen and starved in its cold;
I've followed my dreams by its thousand streams, I've toiled and moiled for its gold.
"Look at my eyes -- been snow-blind twice; look where my foot's half gone;
And that gruesome scar on my left cheek, where the frost-fiend bit to the bone.
Each one a brand of this devil's land, where I've played and I've lost the game,
A broken wreck with a craze for `hooch', and never a cent to my name.
"This mining is only a gamble; the worst is as good as the best;
I was in with the bunch and I might have come out right on top with the rest;
With Cormack, Ladue and Macdonald -- O God! but it's hell to think
Of the thousands and thousands I've squandered on cards and women and drink.
"In the early days we were just a few, and we hunted and fished around,
Nor dreamt by our lonely camp-fires of the wealth that lay under the ground.
We traded in skins and whiskey, and I've often slept under the shade
Of that lone birch tree on Bonanza, where the first big find was made.
"We were just like a great big family, and every man had his squaw,
And we lived such a wild, free, fearless life beyond the pale of the law;
Till sudden there came a whisper, and it maddened us every man,
And I got in on Bonanza before the big rush began.
"Oh, those Dawson days, and the sin and the blaze, and the town all open wide!
(If God made me in His likeness, sure He let the devil inside.)
But we all were mad, both the good and the bad, and as for the women, well --
No spot on the map in so short a space has hustled more souls to hell.
"Money was just like dirt there, easy to get and to spend.
I was all caked in on a dance-hall jade, but she shook me in the end.
It put me queer, and for near a year I never drew sober breath,
Till I found myself in the bughouse ward with a claim staked out on death.
"Twenty years in the Yukon, struggling along its creeks;
Roaming its giant valleys, scaling its god-like peaks;
Bathed in its fiery sunsets, fighting its fiendish cold --
Twenty years in the Yukon . . . twenty years -- and I'm old.
"Old and weak, but no matter, there's `hooch' in the bottle still.
I'll hitch up the dogs to-morrow, and mush down the trail to Bill.
It's so long dark, and I'm lonesome -- I'll just lay down on the bed;
To-morrow I'll go . . . to-morrow . . . I guess I'll play on the red.
". . . Come, Kit, your pony is saddled. I'm waiting, dear, in the court . . .
. . . Minnie, you devil, I'll kill you if you skip with that flossy sport . . .
. . . How much does it go to the pan, Bill? . . . play up, School, and play the game . . .
. . . Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name . . ."
This was the song of the parson's son, as he lay in his bunk alone,
Ere the fire went out and the cold crept in, and his blue lips ceased to moan,
And the hunger-maddened malamutes had torn him flesh from bone.
The prodigal son has returned
Open arms and smiles
Welcome him at the door
He calls me on the phone
Telling me hes coming
Finally ready to be back
At the end he says something
It means everything to me
'I love you.'
Here come I to my own again,
Fed, forgiven and known again,
Claimed by bone of my bone again
And cheered by flesh of my flesh.
The fatted calf is dressed for me,
But the husks have greater rest for me,
I think my pigs will be best for me,
So I'm off to the Yards afresh.
I never was very refined, you see,
(And it weighs on my brother's mind, you see)
But there's no reproach among swine, d'you see,
For being a bit of a swine.
So I'm off with wallet and staff to eat
The bread that is three parts chaff to wheat,
But glory be! - there's a laugh to it,
Which isn't the case when we dine.
My father glooms and advises me,
My brother sulks and despises me,
And Mother catechises me
Till I want to go out and swear.
And, in spite of the butler's gravity,
I know that the servants have it I
Am a monster of moral depravity,
And I'm damned if I think it's fair!
I wasted my substance, I know I did,
On riotous living, so I did,
But there's nothing on record to show I did
Worse than my betters have done.
They talk of the money I spent out there -
They hint at the pace that I went out there -
But they all forget I was sent out there
Alone as a rich man's son.
So I was a mark for plunder at once,
And lost my cash (can you wonder?) at once,
But I didn't give up and knock under at once,
I worked in the Yards, for a spell,
Where I spent my nights and my days with hogs.
And shared their milk and maize with hogs,
Till, I guess, I have learned what pays with hogs
And - I have that knowledge to sell!
So back I go to my job again,
Not so easy to rob again,
Or quite so ready to sob again
On any neck that's around.
I'm leaving, Pater. Good-bye to you!
God bless you, Mater! I'll write to you!
I wouldn't be impolite to you,
But, Brother, you are a hound!
I love your faces I saw the many years
I drank your milk and filled my mouth
With your home talk, slept in your house
And was one of you.
But a fire burns in my heart.
Under the ribs where pulses thud
And flitting between bones of skull
Is the push, the endless mysterious command,
Saying:
"I leave you behind--
You for the little hills and the years all alike,
You with your patient cows and old houses
Protected from the rain,
I am going away and I never come back to you;
Crags and high rough places call me,
Great places of death
Where men go empty handed
And pass over smiling
To the star-drift on the horizon rim.
My last whisper shall be alone, unknown;
I shall go to the city and fight against it,
And make it give me passwords
Of luck and love, women worth dying for,
And money.
I go where you wist not of
Nor I nor any man nor woman.
I only know I go to storms
Grappling against things wet and naked."
There is no pity of it and no blame.
None of us is in the wrong.
After all it is only this:
You for the little hills and I go away.
Walking down the street one day
I saw a little lad
The boy just danced right up to me
and said 'You are my dad! '
He showed me all of the results
of a paternity test
I'd always wanted a little boy
I felt like I was blessed
He lived with me a couple years
we grew to know each other well
but then the doctor called that day
our lives became a living Hell
'Johnny's kidney's failing'
said the doctor's quiet voice
'you'll have to find a donor'
and I knew I had no choice
I offered him my kidney
and the boy was very glad
we went into the surgery room
he said 'I love you, Dad.'
The operation went just fine
but when I did awake
my little boy was gone, yes he
was missing, no mistake
'Where's my boy! ' I cried aloud
the doctor looked depressed
'He just walked out.' the doctor said
'No need to get distressed.
The surgery went well indeed
it was really no bother
and his other kidney's doing just fine
'cause it's from his real father.'
'I'm his dad! ' I cried again
'This must be some mistake.'
'You're not his dad.' The doctor said.
'The test results were fake.
The boy was really mine, you see
but he was really ailing
I'd given him one kidney
but the other one was failing
We engineered this crazy scheme
so he could get another
now if you will excuse me,
we're going to see his mother.'
I watched him as he walked away
and hugged my boy outside
I didn't know what I should do,
so I just lay and cried.
And to this day I don't like kids
I like them not one bit
and that's why when you're gone next week
I cannot babysit.
The wedding is over.
The bride has been brought in.
The mother beamed.
The son has been sold.
She would find it later
20.01.2006
Upon the bank a fisherman
Now look across the river still
While seated on his folding stool
With trusted rod in hand,
That's been with him since childhood days
A father's gift so long ago
He treasures it just like a son
A memory of his life.
In days of old they shared such joy
Upon this spot they called their own
Beside the bridge and 'neath the bough
That oak still firmly stands,
He learned the skills and learned the ways
The baits to use and where to cast
The knowledge that has stayed with him
And never will forget.
For here within this leafy shade
A boy was raised to be a man
Who learned to love the countryside
And found a sense of peace,
It's now the only life he knows
And every day he lives and breathes
To watch the river gently flow
Along the valley green.
Yet now he fishes all-alone
His father sadly passed away
But proudly wears the cap he wore
That's pinned with feathered flies,
He often feels his presence here
A tutors eye a guiding hand
Where ashes spread his spirit lives
And it shall never die.
Can it be the sun descending
O'er the level plain of water?
Or the Red Swan floating, flying,
Wounded by the magic arrow,
Staining all the waves with crimson,
With the crimson of its life-blood,
Filling all the air with splendor,
With the splendor of its plumage?
Yes; it is the sun descending,
Sinking down into the water;
All the sky is stained with purple,
All the water flushed with crimson!
No; it is the Red Swan floating,
Diving down beneath the water;
To the sky its wings are lifted,
With its blood the waves are reddened!
Over it the Star of Evening
Melts and trembles through the purple,
Hangs suspended in the twilight.
No; it is a bead of wampum
On the robes of the Great Spirit
As he passes through the twilight,
Walks in silence through the heavens.
This with joy beheld Iagoo
And he said in haste: "Behold it!
See the sacred Star of Evening!
You shall hear a tale of wonder,
Hear the story of Osseo,
Son of the Evening Star, Osseo!
"Once, in days no more remembered,
Ages nearer the beginning,
When the heavens were closer to us,
And the Gods were more familiar,
In the North-land lived a hunter,
With ten young and comely daughters,
Tall and lithe as wands of willow;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
She the wilful and the wayward,
She the silent, dreamy maiden,
Was the fairest of the sisters.
"All these women married warriors,
Married brave and haughty husbands;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Laughed and flouted all her lovers,
All her young and handsome suitors,
And then married old Osseo,
Old Osseo, poor and ugly,
Broken with age and weak with coughing,
Always coughing like a squirrel.
"Ah, but beautiful within him
Was the spirit of Osseo,
From the Evening Star descended,
Star of Evening, Star of Woman,
Star of tenderness and passion!
All its fire was in his bosom,
All its beauty in his spirit,
All its mystery in his being,
All its splendor in his language!
"And her lovers, the rejected,
Handsome men with belts of wampum,
Handsome men with paint and feathers.
Pointed at her in derision,
Followed her with jest and laughter.
But she said: 'I care not for you,
Care not for your belts of wampum,
Care not for your paint and feathers,
Care not for your jests and laughter;
I am happy with Osseo!'
'Once to some great feast invited,
Through the damp and dusk of evening,
Walked together the ten sisters,
Walked together with their husbands;
Slowly followed old Osseo,
With fair Oweenee beside him;
All the others chatted gayly,
These two only walked in silence.
"At the western sky Osseo
Gazed intent, as if imploring,
Often stopped and gazed imploring
At the trembling Star of Evening,
At the tender Star of Woman;
And they heard him murmur softly,
'Ah, showain nemeshin, Nosa!
Pity, pity me, my father!'
'Listen!' said the eldest sister,
'He is praying to his father!
What a pity that the old man
Does not stumble in the pathway,
Does not break his neck by falling!'
And they laughed till all the forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"On their pathway through the woodlands
Lay an oak, by storms uprooted,
Lay the great trunk of an oak-tree,
Buried half in leaves and mosses,
Mouldering, crumbling, huge and hollow.
And Osseo, when he saw it,
Gave a shout, a cry of anguish,
Leaped into its yawning cavern,
At one end went in an old man,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly;
From the other came a young man,
Tall and straight and strong and handsome.
"Thus Osseo was transfigured,
Thus restored to youth and beauty;
But, alas for good Osseo,
And for Oweenee, the faithful!
Strangely, too, was she transfigured.
Changed into a weak old woman,
With a staff she tottered onward,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly!
And the sisters and their husbands
Laughed until the echoing forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"But Osseo turned not from her,
Walked with slower step beside her,
Took her hand, as brown and withered
As an oak-leaf is in Winter,
Called her sweetheart, Nenemoosha,
Soothed her with soft words of kindness,
Till they reached the lodge of feasting,
Till they sat down in the wigwam,
Sacred to the Star of Evening,
To the tender Star of Woman.
"Wrapt in visions, lost in dreaming,
At the banquet sat Osseo;
All were merry, all were happy,
All were joyous but Osseo.
Neither food nor drink he tasted,
Neither did he speak nor listen;
But as one bewildered sat he,
Looking dreamily and sadly,
First at Oweenee, then upward
At the gleaming sky above them.
"Then a voice was heard, a whisper,
Coming from the starry distance,
Coming from the empty vastness,
Low, and musical, and tender;
And the voice said: 'O Osseo!
O my son, my best beloved!
Broken are the spells that bound you,
All the charms of the magicians,
All the magic powers of evil;
Come to me; ascend, Osseo!
"'Taste the food that stands before you:
It is blessed and enchanted,
It has magic virtues in it,
It will change you to a spirit.
All your bowls and all your kettles
Shall be wood and clay no longer;
But the bowls be changed to wampum,
And the kettles shall be silver;
They shall shine like shells of scarlet,
Like the fire shall gleam and glimmer.
"'And the women shall no longer
Bear the dreary doom of labor,
But be changed to birds, and glisten
With the beauty of the starlight,
Painted with the dusky splendors
Of the skies and clouds of evening!'
"What Osseo heard as whispers,
What as words he comprehended,
Was but music to the others,
Music as of birds afar off,
Of the whippoorwill afar off,
Of the lonely Wawonaissa
Singing in the darksome forest.
"Then the lodge began to tremble,
Straight began to shake and tremble,
And they felt it rising, rising,
Slowly through the air ascending,
From the darkness of the tree-tops
Forth into the dewy starlight,
Till it passed the topmost branches;
And behold! the wooden dishes
All were changed to shells of scarlet!
And behold! the earthen kettles
All were changed to bowls of silver!
And the roof-poles of the wigwam
Were as glittering rods of silver,
And the roof of bark upon them
As the shining shards of beetles.
"Then Osseo gazed around him,
And he saw the nine fair sisters,
All the sisters and their husbands,
Changed to birds of various plumage.
Some were jays and some were magpies,
Others thrushes, others blackbirds;
And they hopped, and sang, and twittered,
Perked and fluttered all their feathers,
Strutted in their shining plumage,
And their tails like fans unfolded.
"Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Was not changed, but sat in silence,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly,
Looking sadly at the others;
Till Osseo, gazing upward,
Gave another cry of anguish,
Such a cry as he had uttered
By the oak-tree in the forest.
"Then returned her youth and beauty,
And her soiled and tattered garments
Were transformed to robes of ermine,
And her staff became a feather,
Yes, a shining silver feather!
"And again the wigwam trembled,
Swayed and rushed through airy currents,
Through transparent cloud and vapor,
And amid celestial splendors
On the Evening Star alighted,
As a snow-flake falls on snow-flake,
As a leaf drops on a river,
As the thistledown on water.
"Forth with cheerful words of welcome
Came the father of Osseo,
He with radiant locks of silver,
He with eyes serene and tender.
And he said: `My son, Osseo,
Hang the cage of birds you bring there,
Hang the cage with rods of silver,
And the birds with glistening feathers,
At the doorway of my wigwam.'
"At the door he hung the bird-cage,
And they entered in and gladly
Listened to Osseo's father,
Ruler of the Star of Evening,
As he said: `O my Osseo!
I have had compassion on you,
Given you back your youth and beauty,
Into birds of various plumage
Changed your sisters and their husbands;
Changed them thus because they mocked you
In the figure of the old man,
In that aspect sad and wrinkled,
Could not see your heart of passion,
Could not see your youth immortal;
Only Oweenee, the faithful,
Saw your naked heart and loved you.
"`In the lodge that glimmers yonder,
In the little star that twinkles
Through the vapors, on the left hand,
Lives the envious Evil Spirit,
The Wabeno, the magician,
Who transformed you to an old man.
Take heed lest his beams fall on you,
For the rays he darts around him
Are the power of his enchantment,
Are the arrows that he uses.'
"Many years, in peace and quiet,
On the peaceful Star of Evening
Dwelt Osseo with his father;
Many years, in song and flutter,
At the doorway of the wigwam,
Hung the cage with rods of silver,
And fair Oweenee, the faithful,
Bore a son unto Osseo,
With the beauty of his mother,
With the courage of his father.
"And the boy grew up and prospered,
And Osseo, to delight him,
Made him little bows and arrows,
Opened the great cage of silver,
And let loose his aunts and uncles,
All those birds with glossy feathers,
For his little son to shoot at.
"Round and round they wheeled and darted,
Filled the Evening Star with music,
With their songs of joy and freedom
Filled the Evening Star with splendor,
With the fluttering of their plumage;
Till the boy, the little hunter,
Bent his bow and shot an arrow,
Shot a swift and fatal arrow,
And a bird, with shining feathers,
At his feet fell wounded sorely.
"But, O wondrous transformation!
`T was no bird he saw before him,
`T was a beautiful young woman,
With the arrow in her bosom!
"When her blood fell on the planet,
On the sacred Star of Evening,
Broken was the spell of magic,
Powerless was the strange enchantment,
And the youth, the fearless bowman,
Suddenly felt himself descending,
Held by unseen hands, but sinking
Downward through the empty spaces,
Downward through the clouds and vapors,
Till he rested on an island,
On an island, green and grassy,
Yonder in the Big-Sea-Water.
"After him he saw descending
All the birds with shining feathers,
Fluttering, falling, wafted downward,
Like the painted leaves of Autumn;
And the lodge with poles of silver,
With its roof like wings of beetles,
Like the shining shards of beetles,
By the winds of heaven uplifted,
Slowly sank upon the island,
Bringing back the good Osseo,
Bringing Oweenee, the faithful.
"Then the birds, again transfigured,
Reassumed the shape of mortals,
Took their shape, but not their stature;
They remained as Little People,
Like the pygmies, the Puk-Wudjies,
And on pleasant nights of Summer,
When the Evening Star was shining,
Hand in hand they danced together
On the island's craggy headlands,
On the sand-beach low and level.
"Still their glittering lodge is seen there,
On the tranquil Summer evenings,
And upon the shore the fisher
Sometimes hears their happy voices,
Sees them dancing in the starlight !"
When the story was completed,
When the wondrous tale was ended,
Looking round upon his listeners,
Solemnly Iagoo added:
"There are great men, I have known such,
Whom their people understand not,
Whom they even make a jest of,
Scoff and jeer at in derision.
From the story of Osseo
Let us learn the fate of jesters!"
All the wedding guests delighted
Listened to the marvellous story,
Listened laughing and applauding,
And they whispered to each other:
"Does he mean himself, I wonder?
And are we the aunts and uncles?"
Then again sang Chibiabos,
Sang a song of love and longing,
In those accents sweet and tender,
In those tones of pensive sadness,
Sang a maiden's lamentation
For her lover, her Algonquin.
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Ah me! when I parted from him,
Round my neck he hung the wampum,
As a pledge, the snow-white wampum,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"`I will go with you, he whispered,
Ah me! to your native country;
Let me go with you, he whispered,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Far away, away, I answered,
Very far away, I answered,
Ah me! is my native country,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I looked back to behold him,
Where we parted, to behold him,
After me he still was gazing,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"By the tree he still was standing,
By the fallen tree was standing,
That had dropped into the water,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!"
Such was Hiawatha's Wedding,
Such the dance of Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Such the story of Iagoo,
Such the songs of Chibiabos;
Thus the wedding banquet ended,
And the wedding guests departed,
Leaving Hiawatha happy
With the night and Minnehaha.
He is the Joy a Son brings
sunny eyed;
whip smart
and kind.
A father
and a father alone
can know the pride
of the offspring
who grows
man hood tall
whose steady eye
and large tent heart
which could be fooled
by the devious
but not destroyed.
For  all that words may
not convey
Son let me say
how much you mean to me
and others
you have helped along the way
by being the you
that paused to give mouth to mouth
to an elderly stranger;
adopted sisters and younger brothers;
stayed close to your mother
never forgot your Dad
reached back
even when it hurt
built your life on solid earth
and to this day
celebrates life, undeterred
in your own unique way.
Job well done.
Night fell over North Lebanon and snow was covering the villages surrounded by the Kadeesha Valley, giving the fields and prairies the appearance of a great sheet of parchment upon which the furious Nature was recording her many deeds. Men came home from the streets while silence engulfed the night.
In a lone house near those villages lived a woman who sat by her fireside spinning wool, and at her side was her only child, staring now at the fire and then at his mother.
A terrible roar of thunder shook the house and the little boy shook with fright. He threw his arms about his mother, seeking protection from Nature in her affection. She took him to her bosom and kissed him; then she say him on her lap and said, "Do not fear, my son, for Nature is but comparing her great power to man's weakness. There is a Supreme Being beyond the falling snow and the heavy clouds and the blowing wind, and He knows the needs of the earth, for He made it; and He looks upon the weak with merciful eyes.
"Be brave, my boy. Nature smiles in Spring and laughs in Summer and yawns in Autumn, but now she is weeping; and with her tears she waters life, hidden under the earth.
"Sleep, my dear child; your father is viewing us from Eternity. The snow and thunder bring us closer to him at this time.
"Sleep, my beloved, for this white blanket which makes us cold, keeps the seeds warm, and these war-like things will produce beautiful flowers when Nisan comes.
"Thus, my child, man cannot reap love until after sad and revealing separation, and bitter patience, and desperate hardship. Sleep, my little boy; sweet dreams will find your soul who is unafraid of the terrible darkness of night and the biting frost."
The little boy looked upon his mother with sleep-laden eyes and said, "Mother, my eyes are heavy, but I cannot go to bed without saying my prayer."
The woman looked at his angelic face, her vision blurred by misted eyes, and said, "Repeat with me, my boy - 'God, have mercy on the poor and protect them from the winter; warm their thin-clad bodies with Thy merciful hands; look upon the orphans who are sleeping in wretched houses, suffering from hunger and cold. Hear, oh Lord, the call of widows who are helpless and shivering with fear for their young. Open, oh Lord, the hearts of all humans, that they may see the misery of the weak. Have mercy upon the sufferers who knock on doors, and lead the wayfarers into warm places. Watch, oh Lord, over the little birds and protect the trees and fields from the anger of the storm; for Thou art merciful and full of love.'"
As Slumber captured the boy's spirit, his mother placed him in the bed and kissed his eyes with quivering lips. Then she went back and sat by the hearth, spinning the wool to make him raiment.
If you leave the gloom of London and you seek a glowing land,
Where all except the flag is strange and new,
There's a bronzed and stalwart fellow who will grip you by the hand,
And greet you with a welcome warm and true;
For he's your younger brother, the one you sent away
Because there wasn't room for him at home;
And now he's quite contented, and he's glad he didn't stay,
And he's building Britain's greatness o'er the foam.
When the giant herd is moving at the rising of the sun,
And the prairie is lit with rose and gold,
And the camp is all abustle, and the busy day's begun,
He leaps into the saddle sure and bold.
Through the round of heat and hurry, through the racket and the rout,
He rattles at a pace that nothing mars;
And when the night-winds whisper and camp-fires flicker out,
He is sleeping like a child beneath the stars.
When the wattle-blooms are drooping in the sombre she-oak glade,
And the breathless land is lying in a swoon,
He leaves his work a moment, leaning lightly on his spade,
And he hears the bell-bird chime the Austral noon.
The parrakeets are silent in the gum-tree by the creek;
The ferny grove is sunshine-steeped and still;
But the dew will gem the myrtle in the twilight ere he seek
His little lonely cabin on the hill.
Around the purple, vine-clad slope the argent river dreams;
The roses almost hide the house from view;
A snow-peak of the Winterberg in crimson splendor gleams;
The shadow deepens down on the karroo.
He seeks the lily-scented dusk beneath the orange tree;
His pipe in silence glows and fades and glows;
And then two little maids come out and climb upon his knee,
And one is like the lily, one the rose.
He sees his white sheep dapple o'er the green New Zealand plain,
And where Vancouver's shaggy ramparts frown,
When the sunlight threads the pine-gloom he is fighting might and main
To clinch the rivets of an Empire down.
You will find him toiling, toiling, in the south or in the west,
A child of nature, fearless, frank, and free;
And the warmest heart that beats for you is beating in his breast,
And he sends you loyal greeting o'er the sea.
You've a brother in the army, you've another in the Church;
One of you is a diplomatic swell;
You've had the pick of everything and left him in the lurch,
And yet I think he's doing very well.
I'm sure his life is happy, and he doesn't envy yours;
I know he loves the land his pluck has won;
And I fancy in the years unborn, while England's fame endures,
She will come to bless with pride -- The Younger Son.
Time of the Son is close
It has always been close!
No one can stop the tide
Do you get what I say?
But, does it make it silly
Making the noise for peace
In speaking for those who can’t
Do I watch with folded arms
Concentrate on my rhymes
And on the chemistry of metals
Ignore what’s going on
The slaughter of the sheep
If not by the gun
By starvation, and by disease
The ones without guards to guard the body
This is a strange place in time
The strong kill for peace!
The weak remain on the run
The wise man is drowning in his bottle
The beast is wearing sheep’s skin
And I hate what I write…
What I shall leave thee none can tell,
But all shall say I wish thee well:
I wish thee, Vin, before all wealth,
Both bodily and ghostly health;
Nor too much wealth, nor wit, come to thee,
So much of either may undo thee.
I wish thee learning, not for show,
Enough for to instruct and know,
Not such as gentlemen require
To prate at table or at fire.
I wish thee all thy mother's graces,
Thy father's fortunes, and his places.
I wish thee friends, and one at court,
Not to build on, but support,
To keep thee, not in doing many
Oppressions, but from suffering any.
I wish thee peace in all thy ways,
Nor lazy nor contentious days;
And when thy soul and body part,
As innocent as now thou art.
The spring dawned after the biting chill,
Beams of sunlight filtered down,
Flakes of snow melted away,
And the whole world bathed in brilliant glow.
He came,
The dainty Darling of our dreams!
With promises full and hopes in store,
To fill the void,
within our souls.
To burst the silence,
with clatter of sounds.
To dispel the gloom,
that hovered on.
High from Heaven,
like a cherubim sent,
with the glow of umpteen candles lit,
He came,
To gladden our doleful hearts,
To deliver us of our blighted state.
He came,
Like the first rain on parched ground,
To drench the arid lands in splendid shower,
To ease the prick of sweltering heat,
And to put out the fire of growing drought.
Marvelling over the seizure of treasure,
Long hidden within the crevices dark,
We stood, so pleasantly taken aback,
Over the gift, ere vouched, but long delayed.
Like an eagle in its aerial route,
Flew my spirits in ecstatic rounds.
Like the Swallow, soaring high above,
My fancy took wings and set to fly.
He lay close to me, the bundle of joy!
His dark little eyes poised on my face,
Full with words on silent lips,
And wonder glistening his naive visage.
I peered into that cute little face,
The face I had long fondled in my dreams,
I whirled in the feel of prime feed,
And swam in the glory of maternal bliss!
I wish you could be with us when we wake and go to sleep,
That we could reach out and touch you and your love we could
always keep.
But destiny has changed this, God has taken you away,
Still in our thoughts and memories, with us you'll
always stay.
The moments we share together, we have only to close our eyes,
And one by one we re-live them again they can't be erased by
"Good-Byes"
You are with God now - There's no sorrow or strife,
God needed you for his "kingdom of heaven," so he drew you
from the "Garden of Life"
Our life here is only transient, we are only passing through
So in the time that we have left let's not forget to do what we
must do -
To help each other in times of need, to put aside our thoughts
of greed,
Let's not be bitter and full of hate, help to ease the other's pain,
please don't hesitate.
And now let's honor Kenny, that he was such a beautiful
rose,
That God admired and loved so much for His Heavenly Garden he chose.
on august 26th in the year ninteen fifty three
god and my wife gave a son to me
a special son we knew from the start
and from that day on joy has filled my heart
our teachings about values, honesty and life
were installed but mostly by my wife
our son was a blessing
a gift from above
his special charm, thoughfulness
and especially his love
his efforts and determation
to obtain his goal
we watched with pride
as they did unfold
now as a man and a father himself
his wife and children
are more precious than wealth
so remember our son
as you open each new door
as much as we love you
GOD loves you more
author hewitt hardy
when the son makes his mistakes
the mother is always there to comfort him
and lessen the pain and tell her son
to continue what needs to be done
the mother tells him the world is so big
and wide and it will always understand
the world is so big and so wide that
there will always be a space for him
and from there the son understands what
love is: it starts from  a loving mother
and the son moves on to find a wife
whose love like that of his mother
must make him a real man since then.
When I am alone, without my son,
I cry, I change, I am alone again, without anyone to love,
Love is the most valued posession,
Without my son I am nothing, but I am relieved,
Without my son,
I feel free to go and come as I please, nothing to hold me down,
Nothing to hold me back from anything in my day,
Because I am without my son,
My days return to being empty and pointless,
Because I am without my son,
The sun doesn't seem as bright and trees don't seem as green,
Without my son,
A pain in my chest is getting worse as I feel  as though I can't breath, skipping breathes, and now I can't catch my breathe,
Because I am without my son,
I can't sleep, then I sleep too much, I hardly eat my world is upside down,
Because I am without my son,
I am  dieing the slowest of deaths,
Because I am without my son.
Your son in the corner selling drugs.
Do you care?
Your son kills innocent people,
you think thats fair?
Its like you dont give a ****, like you dont care.
Your son is in jail, because
of a gang that he's in.
Your son is on the corner, he stopped breathing.
Your son is in the hospital with a bullet in his heart.
You and your son will be apart.
Your son got shot because of
him trying to dropp out of a  gang.
All your son heard was 'bam! '
Your son is 6ft under the ground.
Your son is dead!
Face the truth.
He left this world so fast like magic. 'poof'
Where the pools are bright and deep,
Where the grey trout lies asleep,
Up the river and over the lea,
That's the way for Billy and me.
Where the blackbird sings the latest,
Where the hawthorn blooms the sweetest,
Where the nestlings chirp and flee,
That's the way for Billy and me.
Where the mowers mow the cleanest,
Where the hay lies thick and greenest,
There to track the homeward bee,
That's the way for Billy and me.
Where the hazel bank is steepest,
Where the shadow falls the deepest,
Where the clustering nuts fall free,
That's the way for Billy and me.
Why the boys should drive away
Little sweet maidens from the play,
Or love to banter and fight so well,
That's the thing I never could tell.
But this I know, I love to play
Through the meadow, among the hay;
Up the water and over the lea,
That's the way for Billy and me.
What is the song the children sing,
When doorway lilacs bloom in Spring,
And the Schools are loosed, and the games are played
That were deadly earnest when Earth was made?
Hear them chattering, shrill and hard,
After dinner-time, out in the yard,
As the sides are chosen and all submit
To the chance of the lot that shall make them "It."
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Catch a nigger by the toe!
(If he hollers let him go!)
Eenee, Meenee. Mainee, Mo!
You-are-It!"
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, and Mo
Were the First Big Four of the Long Ago,
When the Pole of the Earth sloped thirty degrees,
And Central Europe began to freeze,
And they needed Ambassadors staunch and stark
To steady the Tribes in the gathering dark:
But the frost was fierce and flesh was frail,
So they launched a Magic that could not fail.
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Hear the wolves across the snow!
Some one has to kill 'em--so
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make--you--It!"
Slow ly the Glacial Epoch passed,
Central Europe thawed out at last;
And, under the slush of the melting snows
The first dim shapes of the Nations rose.
Rome, Britannia, Belgium, Gaul--
Flood and avalanche fathered them all;
And the First Big Four, as they watched the mess,
Pitied Man in his helplessness.
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Trouble starts When Nations grow,
Some one has to stop it--so
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Make-you-It!"
Thus it happened, but none can tell
What was the Power behind the spell--
Fear, or Duty, or Pride, or Faith--
That sent men shuddering out to death--
To cold and watching, and, worse than these,
Work, more work, when they looked for ease--
To the days discomfort, the nights despair,
In the hope of a prize that they never could share,
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
Man is born to Toil and Woe.
One will cure another--so
Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make--you--It!"
Once and again, as the Ice went North
The grass crept up to the Firth of Forth.
Once and again, as the Ice came South
The glaciers ground over Lossiemouth.
But, grass or glacier, cold or hot,
The men went out who would rather not,
And fought with the Tiger, the Pig and the Ape,
To hammer the world into decent shape.
(Singing)
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo!
What's the use of doing so?
Ask the Gods, for we don't know;
But Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make-us-It!"
Nothing is left of that terrible rune
But a tag of gibberish tacked to a tune
That ends the waiting and settles the claims
Of children arguing over their games;
For never yet has a boy been found
To shirk his turn when the turn came round;
Nor even a girl has been known to say
"If you laugh at me I shan't play."
For--
"Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo,
(Don't you let the grown-ups know!)
You may hate it ever so,
But if you're chose you're bound to go,
When Eenee, Meenee, Mainee, Mo
Make-you-It!"
THE angels are stooping
Above your bed;
They weary of trooping
With the whimpering dead.
God's laughing in Heaven
To see you so good;
The Sailing Seven
Are gay with His mood.
I sigh that kiss you,
For I must own
That I shall miss you
When you have grown.
WINE comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That's all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.
i{Sung by the people of Faery over Diarmuid and Grania,}
i{in their bridal sleep under a Cromlech.}
WE who are old, old and gay,
O so old!
Thousands of years, thousands of years,
If all were told:
Give to these children, new from the world,
Silence and love;
And the long dew-dropping hours of the night,
And the stars above:
Give to these children, new from the world,
Rest far from men.
Is anything better, anything better?
Tell us it then:
Us who are old, old and gay,
O so old!
Thousands of years, thousands of years,
If all were told.
Over hill, over dale,
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
Over park, over pale,
Thorough flood, thorough fire!
I do wander everywhere,
Swifter than the moon's sphere;
And I serve the Fairy Queen,
To dew her orbs upon the green;
The cowslips tall her pensioners be;
In their gold coats spots you see;
Those be rubies, fairy favours;
In those freckles live their savours;
I must go seek some dewdrops here,
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
I read within a poet's book
A word that starred the page:
"Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage!"
Yes, that is true; and something more
You'll find, where'er you roam,
That marble floors and gilded walls
Can never make a home.
But every house where Love abides,
And Friendship is a guest,
Is surely home, and home-sweet-home:
For there the heart can rest.
Show me the way to the next whisky bar
Oh, don't ask why, oh, don't ask why
Show me the way to the next whisky bar
Oh, don't ask why, oh, don't ask why
For if we don't find the next whisky bar
I tell you we must die
I tell you we must die
I tell you
I tell you
I tell you we must die
Oh, moon of Alabama
We now must say say good-bye
We've lost our good old mamma
And must have whisky
Oh, you know why.
Show me the way to the next pretty girl
Oh, don't ask why, oh, don't ask why
Show me the way to the next pretty girl
Oh don't ask why, oh, don't ask why
For if we don't find the next pretty girl
I tell you we must die
I tell you we must die
I tell you
I tell you
I tell you we must die
Oh, moon of Alabama
We now must say good-bye
We've lost our good old mamma
And must have a girl
Oh, you know why.
Show me the way to the next little dollar
Oh, don't ask why, oh, don't ask why
Show me the way to the next little dollar
Oh, don't ask why, oh, don't ask why
For if we don't find the next little dollar
I tell you we must die
I tell you we must die
I tell you
I tell you
I tell you we must die
Oh, moon of Alabama
We now must say good-bye
We've lost our good old mamma
And must have dollars
Oh, you know why.
The line-storm clouds fly tattered and swift,
The road is forlorn all day,
Where a myriad snowy quartz stones lift,
And the hoof-prints vanish away.
The roadside flowers, too wet for the bee,
Expend their bloom in vain.
Come over the hills and far with me,
And be my love in the rain.
The birds have less to say for themselves
In the wood-world’s torn despair
Than now these numberless years the elves,
Although they are no less there:
All song of the woods is crushed like some
Wild, easily shattered rose.
Come, be my love in the wet woods; come,
Where the boughs rain when it blows.
There is the gale to urge behind
And bruit our singing down,
And the shallow waters aflutter with wind
From which to gather your gown.
What matter if we go clear to the west,
And come not through dry-shod?
For wilding brooch shall wet your breast
The rain-fresh goldenrod.
Oh, never this whelming east wind swells
But it seems like the sea’s return
To the ancient lands where it left the shells
Before the age of the fern;
And it seems like the time when after doubt
Our love came back amain.
Oh, come forth into the storm and rout
And be my love in the rain.
When you, my Dear, are away, away,
How wearily goes the creeping day.
A year drags after morning, and night
Starts another year of candle light.
O Pausing Sun and Lingering Moon!
Grant me, I beg of you, this boon.
Whirl round the earth as never sun
Has his diurnal journey run.
And, Moon, slip past the ladders of air
In a single flash, while your streaming hair
Catches the stars and pulls them down
To shine on some slumbering Chinese town.
O Kindly Sun! Understanding Moon!
Bring evening to crowd the footsteps of noon.
But when that long awaited day
Hangs ripe in the heavens, your voyaging stay.
Be morning, O Sun! with the lark in song,
Be afternoon for ages long.
And, Moon, let you and your lesser lights
Watch over a century of nights.
Tell me no more of thy love, papeeha,
Wouldst thou recall to my heart, papeeha,
Dreams of delight that are gone,
When swift to my side came the feet of my lover
With stars of the dusk and the dawn?
I see the soft wings of the clouds on the river,
And jewelled with raindrops the mango-leaves quiver,
And tender boughs flower on the plain.....
But what is their beauty to me, papeeha,
Beauty of blossom and shower, papeeha,
That brings not my lover again?
Tell me no more of thy love, papeeha,
Wouldst thou revive in my heart, papeeha
Grief for the joy that is gone?
I hear the bright peacock in glimmering woodlands
Cry to its mate in the dawn;
I hear the black koel's slow, tremulous wooing,
And sweet in the gardens the calling and cooing
Of passionate bulbul and dove....
But what is their music to me, papeeha
Songs of their laughter and love, papeeha,
To me, forsaken of love?
The hunchèd camels of the night
Trouble the bright
And silver waters of the moon.
The Maiden of the Morn will soon
Through Heaven stray and sing,
Star gathering.
Now while the dark about our loves is strewn,
Light of my dark, blood of my heart, O come!
And night will catch her breath up, and be dumb.
Leave thy father, leave thy mother
And thy brother;
Leave the black tents of thy tribe apart!
Am I not thy father and thy brother,
And thy mother?
And thou--what needest with thy tribe's black tents
Who hast the red pavilion of my heart?
Look off, dear Love, across the sallow sands,
And mark yon meeting of the sun and sea,
How long they kiss in sight of all the lands.
Ah! longer, longer, we.
Now in the sea's red vintage melts the sun,
As Egypt's pearl dissolved in rosy wine,
And Cleopatra night drinks all.  'Tis done,
Love, lay thine hand in mine.
Come forth, sweet stars, and comfort heaven's heart;
Glimmer, ye waves, round else unlighted sands.
O night! divorce our sun and sky apart
Never our lips, our hands.
He
Lift up the veils that darken the delicate moon
of thy glory and grace,
Withhold not, O love, from the night
of my longing the joy of thy luminous face,
Give me a spear of the scented keora
guarding thy pinioned curls,
Or a silken thread from the fringes
that trouble the dream of thy glimmering pearls;
Faint grows my soul with thy tresses' perfume
and the song of thy anklets' caprice,
Revive me, I pray, with the magical nectar
that dwells in the flower of thy kiss.
She
How shall I yield to the voice of thy pleading,
how shall I grant thy prayer,
Or give thee a rose-red silken tassel,
a scented leaf from my hair?
Or fling in the flame of thy heart's desire the veils that cover my face,
Profane the law of my father's creed for a foe
of my father's race?
Thy kinsmen have broken our sacred altars and slaughtered our sacred kine,
The feud of old faiths and the blood of old battles sever thy people and mine.
He
What are the sins of my race, Beloved,
what are my people to thee?
And what are thy shrines, and kine and kindred,
what are thy gods to me?
Love recks not of feuds and bitter follies,
of stranger, comrade or kin,
Alike in his ear sound the temple bells
and the cry of the muezzin.
For Love shall cancel the ancient wrong
and conquer the ancient rage,
Redeem with his tears the memoried sorrow
that sullied a bygone age.
There are songs for the morning and songs for the night,
For sunrise and sunset, the stars and the moon;
But who will give praise to the fulness of light,
And sing us a song of the glory of noon?
Oh, the high noon, the clear noon,
The noon with golden crest;
When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns
With his face to the way of the west!
How swiftly he rose in the dawn of his strength;
How slowly he crept as the morning wore by;
Ah, steep was the climbing that led him at length
To the height of his throne in the wide summer sky.
Oh, the long toil, the slow toil,
The toil that may not rest,
Till the sun looks down from his journey's crown,
To the wonderful way of the west!
Then a quietness falls over meadow and hill,
The wings of the wind in the forest are furled,
The river runs softly, the birds are all still,
The workers are resting all over the world.
Oh, the good hour, the kind hour,
The hour that calms the breast!
Little inn half-way on the road of the day,
Where it follows the turn to the west!
There's a plentiful feast in the maple-tree shade,
The lilt of a song to an old-fashioned tune,
The talk of a friend, or the kiss of a maid,
To sweeten the cup that we drink to the noon.
Oh, the deep noon, the full noon,
Of all the day the best!
When the blue sky burns, and the great sun turns
To his home by the way of the west.
Rome never looks where she treads.
Always her heavy hooves fall
On our stomachs, our hearts or our heads;
And Rome never heeds when we bawl.
Her sentries pass on--that is all,
And we gather behind them in hordes,
And plot to reconquer the Wall,
With only our tongues for our swords.
We are the Little Folk--we!
Too little to love or to hate.
Leave us alone and you'll see
How we can drag down the State!
We are the worm in the wood!
We are the rot at the root!
We are the taint in the blood!
We are the thorn in the foot!
Mistletoe killing an oak--
Rats gnawing cables in two--
Moths making holes in a cloak--
How they must love what they do!
Yes--and we Little Folk too,
We are busy as they--
Working our works out of view--
Watch, and you'll see it some day!
No indeed! We are not strong,
But we know Peoples that are.
Yes, and we'll guide them along
To smash and destroy you in War!
We shall be slaves just the same?
Yes, we have always been slaves,
But you--you will die of the shame,
And then we shall dance on your graves!
We are the Little Folk, we, etc.
Let the rain kiss you
Let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops
Let the rain sing you a lullaby
The rain makes still pools on the sidewalk
The rain makes running pools in the gutter
The rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at night
And I love the rain.
Willow in your April gown
Delicate and gleaming,
Do you mind in years gone by
All my dreaming?
Spring was like a call to me
That I could not answer,
I was chained to loneliness,
I, the dancer.
Willow, twinkling in the sun,
Still your leaves and hear me,
I can answer spring at last,
Love is near me!
(Parvati at her lattice)
O Love! were you a basil-wreath to twine
among my tresses,
A jewelled clasp of shining gold to bind around my sleeve,
O Love! were you the keora's soul that haunts
my silken raiment,
A bright, vermilion tassel in the girdles that I weave;
O Love! were you the scented fan
that lies upon my pillow,
A sandal lute, or silver lamp that burns before my shrine,
Why should I fear the jealous dawn
that spreads with cruel laughter,
Sad veils of separation between your face and mine?
Haste, O wild-bee hours, to the gardens of the sun set!
Fly, wild-parrot day, to the orchards of the west!
Come, O tender night, with your sweet,
consoling darkness,
And bring me my Beloved to the shelter of my breast!
(Amar Singh in the saddle)
O Love! were you the hooded hawk upon my hand
that flutters,
Its collar-band of gleaming bells atinkle as I ride,
O Love! were you a turban-spray or
floating heron-feather,
The radiant, swift, unconquered sword
that swingeth at my side;
O Love! were you a shield against the
arrows of my foemen,
An amulet of jade against the perils of the way,
How should the drum-beats of the dawn
divide me from your bosom,
Or the union of the midnight be ended with the day?
Haste, O wild-deer hours, to the meadows of the sunset!
Fly, wild stallion day, to the pastures of the west!
Come, O tranquil night, with your soft,
consenting darkness,
And bear me to the fragrance of my Beloved's breast!
THAT which eludes this verse and any verse,
Unheard by sharpest ear, unform'd in clearest eye or cunningest mind,
Nor lore nor fame, nor happiness nor wealth,
And yet the pulse of every heart and life throughout the world
incessantly,
Which you and I and all pursuing ever ever miss,
Open but still a secret, the real of the real, an illusion,
Costless, vouchsafed to each, yet never man the owner,
Which poets vainly seek to put in rhyme, historians in prose,
Which sculptor never chisel'd yet, nor painter painted,
Which vocalist never sung, nor orator nor actor ever utter'd,      10
Invoking here and now I challenge for my song.
Indifferently, 'mid public, private haunts, in solitude,
Behind the mountain and the wood,
Companion of the city's busiest streets, through the assemblage,
It and its radiations constantly glide.
In looks of fair unconscious babes,
Or strangely in the coffin'd dead,
Or show of breaking dawn or stars by night,
As some dissolving delicate film of dreams,
Hiding yet lingering.                                              20
Two little breaths of words comprising it.
Two words, yet all from first to last comprised in it.
How ardently for it!
How many ships have sail'd and sunk for it!
How many travelers started from their homes and ne'er return'd!
How much of genius boldly staked and lost for it!
What countless stores of beauty, love, ventur'd for it!
How all superbest deeds since Time began are traceable to it--and
shall be to the end!
How all heroic martyrdoms to it!
How, justified by it, the horrors, evils, battles of the earth!    30
How the bright fascinating lambent flames of it, in every age and
land, have drawn men's eyes,
Rich as a sunset on the Norway coast, the sky, the islands, and the
cliffs,
Or midnight's silent glowing northern lights unreachable.
Haply God's riddle it, so vague and yet so certain,
The soul for it, and all the visible universe for it,
And heaven at last for it.
Once red ripple came to land
In the golden sunset burning--
Lapped against a maiden's hand,
By the ford returning.
Dainty foot and gentle breast--
Here, across, be glad and rest.
"Maiden, wait," the ripple saith;
"Wait awhile, for I am Death!"
"Where my lover calls I go--
Shame it were to treat him coldly--
'Twas a fish that circled so,
Turning over boldly."
Dainty foot and tender heart,
Wait the loaded ferry-raft.
"Wait, ah, wait!" the ripple saith;
"Maiden, wait, for I am Death!"
"When my lover calls I haste--
Dame Disdain was never wedded!"
Ripple-ripple round her waist,
Clear the current eddied.
Foolish heart and faithful hand,
Little feet that touched no land.
Far away the ripple sped,
Ripple-ripple running red!
Prelude to "Stalky & Co."
"Let us now praise famous men"--
Men of little showing--
For their work continueth,
And their work continueth,
Broad and deep continues,
Greater then their knowing!
Western wind and open surge
Took us from our mothers--
Flung us on a naked shore
(Twelve bleak houses by the shore.
Seven summers by the shore! )
'Mid two hundred brothers.
There we met with famous men
Set in office o'er us;
And they beat on us with rods--
Faithfully with many rods--
Daily beat us on with rods,
For the love they bore us!
Out of Egypt unto Troy--
Over Himalaya--
Far and sure our bands have gone--
Hy-Brazil or Babylon,
Islands of the Southern Run,
And Cities of Cathaia!
And we all praise famous men--
Ancients of the College;
For they taught us common sense--
Tried to teach us common sense--
Truth and God's Own Common Sense,
Which is more than knowledge!
Each degree of Latitude
Strung about Creation
Seeth one or more of us
(Of one muster each of us),
Diligent in that he does,
Keen in his vocation.
This we learned from famous men,
Knowing not its uses,
When they showed, in daily work--
Man must finish off his work--
Right or wrong, his daily work--
And without excuses.
Servant of the Staff and chain,
Mine and fuse and grapnel--
Some, before the face of Kings,
Stand before the face of Kings;
Bearing gifts to divers Kings--
Gifts of case and shrapnel.
This we learned from famous men
Teaching in our borders,
Who declared it was best,
Safest, easiest, and best--
Expeditious, wise, and best--
To obey your orders.
Some beneath the further stars
Bear the greater burden:
Set to serve the lands they rule,
(Save he serve no man may rule),
Serve and love the lands they rule;
Seeking praise nor guerdon.
This we learned from famous men,
Knowing not we learned it.
Only, as the years went by--
Lonely, as the years went by--
Far from help as years went by,
Plainer we discerned it.
Wherefore praise we famous men
From whose bays we borrow--
They that put aside To-day--
All the joys of their To-day--
And with toil of their To-day
Bought for us To-morrow!
Bless and praise we famous men--
Men of little showing--
For their work continueth,
And their work continueth,
Broad and deep continueth,
Great beyond their knowing!
If you wake at midnight, and hear a horse's feet,
Don't go drawing back the blind, or looking in the street.
Them that ask no questions isn't told a lie.
Watch the wall, my darling, while the Gentlemen go by!
Five and twenty ponies,
Trotting through the dark --
Brandy for the Parson,
'Baccy for the Clerk;
Laces for a lady, letters for a spy,
And watch the wall, my darling, while the Gentlemen go by!
Running round the woodlump if you chance to find
Little barrels, roped and tarred, all full of brandy-wine,
Don't you shout to come and look, nor use 'em for your play.
Put the brishwood back again -- and they'll be gone next day!
If you see the stable-door setting open wide;
If you see a tired horse lying down inside;
If your mother mends a coat cut about and tore;
If the lining's wet and warm -- don't you ask no more!
If you meet King George's men, dressed in blue and red,
You be carefull what you say, and mindful what is said.
If they call you "pretty maid," and chuck you 'neath the chin,
Don't you tell where no one is, nor yet where no one's been!
Knocks and footsteps round the house -- whistles after dark --
You've no call for running out till the house-dogs bark.
Trusty's here, and Pincher's here, and see how dumb they lie --
They don't fret to follow when the Gentlemen go by!
If you do as you've been told, 'likely there's a chance,
You'll be given a dainty doll, all the way from France,
With a cap of Valenciennes, and a velvet hood --
A present from the Gentlemen, along o' being good!
Five and twenty ponies,
Trotting through the dark --
Brandy for the Parson,
'Baccy for the Clerk;
Them that asks no questions isn't told a lie --
Watch the wall, my darling, while the Gentlemen go by!
Ancient Person, for whom I
All the flattering youth defy,
Long be it e'er thou grow old,
Aching, shaking, crazy cold;
But still continue as thou art,
Ancient Person of my heart.
On thy withered lips and dry,
Which like barren furrows lie,
Brooding kisses I will pour,
Shall thy youthful heart restore,
Such kind show'rs in autumn fall,
And a second spring recall;
Nor from thee will ever part,
Ancient Person of my heart.
Thy nobler parts, which but to name
In our sex would be counted shame,
By ages frozen grasp possest,
From their ice shall be released,
And, soothed by my reviving hand,
In former warmth and vigour stand.
All a lover's wish can reach,
For thy joy my love shall teach;
And for thy pleasure shall improve
All that art can add to love.
Yet still I love thee without art,
Ancient Person of my heart.
"Sleep, weary ones, while ye may --
Sleep, oh, sleep!"
Eugene Field.
Thro' May time blossoms, with whisper low,
The soft wind sang to the dead below:
"Think not with regret on the Springtime's song
And the task ye left while your hands were strong.
The song would have ceased when the Spring was past,
And the task that was joyous be weary at last."
To the winter sky when the nights were long
The tree-tops tossed with a ceaseless song:
"Do ye think with regret on the sunny days
And the path ye left, with its untrod ways?
The sun might sink in a storm cloud's frown
And the path grow rough when the night came down."
In the grey twilight of the autumn eves,
It sighed as it sang through the dying leaves:
"Ye think with regret that the world was bright,
That your path was short and your task was light;
The path, though short, was perhaps the best
And the toil was sweet, that it led to rest."
The memory of you emerges from the night around me.
The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one!
Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.
Oh pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked.
In you the wars and the flights accumulated.
From you the wings of the song birds rose.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver,
turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank!
In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded.
Lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire,
sadness stunned you, in you everything sank!
I made the wall of shadow draw back,
beyond desire and act, I walked on.
Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost,
I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you.
Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.
and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar.
There was the black solitude of the islands,
and there, woman of love, your arms took me in.
There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit.
There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle.
Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me
in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!
How terrible and brief my desire was to you!
How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid.
Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs,
still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.
Oh the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs,
oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.
Oh the mad coupling of hope and force
in which we merged and despaired.
And the tenderness, light as water and as flour.
And the word scarcely begun on the lips.
This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing,
and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!
Oh pit of debris, everything fell into you,
what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned!
From billow to billow you still called and sang.
Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel.
You still flowered in songs, you still brike the currents.
Oh pit of debris, open and bitter well.
Pale blind diver, luckless slinger,
lost discoverer, in you everything sank!
It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour
which the night fastens to all the timetables.
The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore.
Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate.
Deserted like the wharves at dawn.
Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.
Oh farther than everything. Oh farther than everything.
It is the hour of departure. Oh abandoned one!
A song of Enchantment I sang me there,
In a green-green wood, by waters fair,
Just as the words came up to me
I sang it under the wild wood tree.
Widdershins turned I, singing it low,
Watching the wild birds come and go;
No cloud in the deep dark blue to be seen
Under the thick-thatched branches green.
Twilight came: silence came:
The planet of Evening's silver flame;
By darkening paths I wandered through
Thickets trembling with drops of dew.
But the music is lost and the words are gone
Of the song I sang as I sat alone,
Ages and ages have fallen on me -
On the wood and the pool and the elder tree.
Once, at night, in the manor wood
My Love and I long silent stood,
Amazed that any heavens could
Decree to part us, bitterly repining.
My Love, in aimless love and grief,
Reached forth and drew aside a leaf
That just above us played the thief
And stole our starlight that for us was shining.
A star that had remarked her pain
Shone straightway down that leafy lane,
And wrought his image, mirror-plain,
Within a tear that on her lash hung gleaming.
"Thus Time," I cried, "is but a tear
Some one hath wept 'twixt hope and fear,
Yet in his little lucent sphere
Our star of stars, Eternity, is beaming."
Sherwood in the twilight, is Robin Hood awake?
Grey and ghostly shadows are gliding through the brake,
Shadows of the dappled deer, dreaming of the morn,
Dreaming of a shadowy man that winds a shadowy horn.
Robin Hood is here again: all his merry thieves
Hear a ghostly bugle-note shivering through the leaves,
Calling as he used to call, faint and far away,
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day.
Merry, merry England has kissed the lips of June:
All the wings of fairyland were here beneath the moon,
Like a flight of rose-leaves fluttering in a mist
Of opal and ruby and pearl and amethyst.
Merry, merry England is waking as of old,
With eyes of blither hazel and hair of brighter gold:
For Robin Hood is here again beneath the bursting spray
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day.
Love is in the greenwood building him a house
Of wild rose and hawthorn and honeysuckle boughs:
Love is in the greenwood, dawn is in the skies,
And Marian is waiting with a glory in her eyes.
Hark! The dazzled laverock climbs the golden steep!
Marian is waiting: is Robin Hood asleep?
Round the fairy grass-rings frolic elf and fay,
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day.
Oberon, Oberon, rake away the gold,
Rake away the red leaves, roll away the mould,
Rake away the gold leaves, roll away the red,
And wake Will Scarlett from his leafy forest bed.
Friar Tuck and Little John are riding down together
With quarter-staff and drinking-can and grey goose-feather.
The dead are coming back again, the years are rolled away
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day.
Softly over Sherwood the south wind blows.
All the heart of England his in every rose
Hears across the greenwood the sunny whisper leap,
Sherwood in the red dawn, is Robin Hood asleep?
Hark, the voice of England wakes him as of old
And, shattering the silence with a cry of brighter gold
Bugles in the greenwood echo from the steep,
Sherwood in the red dawn, is Robin Hood asleep?
Where the deer are gliding down the shadowy glen
All across the glades of fern he calls his merry men--
Doublets of the Lincoln green glancing through the May
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day--
Calls them and they answer: from aisles of oak and ash
Rings the Follow! Follow! and the boughs begin to crash,
The ferns begin to flutter and the flowers begin to fly,
And through the crimson dawning the robber band goes by.
Robin! Robin! Robin! All his merry thieves
Answer as the bugle-note shivers through the leaves,
Calling as he used to call, faint and far away,
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day.
Sail fast, sail fast,
Ark of my hopes, Ark of my dreams;
Sweep lordly o'er the drowned Past,
Fly glittering through the sun's strange beams;
Sail fast, sail fast.
Breaths of new buds from off some drying lea
With news about the Future scent the sea:
My brain is beating like the heart of Haste:
I'll loose me a bird upon this Present waste;
Go, trembling song,
And stay not long; oh, stay not long:
Thou'rt only a gray and sober dove,
But thine eye is faith and thy wing is love.
The princess has her lovers,
A score of knights has she,
And each can sing a madrigal,
And praise her gracefully.
But Love that is so bitter
Hath put within her heart
A longing for the scornful knight
Who silent stands apart.
And tho' the others praise and plead,
She maketh no reply,
Yet for a single word from him,
I ween that she would die.
COME, I will make the continent indissoluble;
I will make the most splendid race the sun ever yet shone upon;
I will make divine magnetic lands,
With the love of comrades,
With the life-long love of comrades.
I will plant companionship thick as trees along all the rivers of
America, and along the shores of the great lakes, and all over
the prairies;
I will make inseparable cities, with their arms about each other's
necks;
By the love of comrades,
By the manly love of comrades.
For you these, from me, O Democracy, to serve you, ma femme!       10
For you! for you, I am trilling these songs,
In the love of comrades,
In the high-towering love of comrades.
Sweet dreams, form a shade
O'er my lovely infant's head!
Sweet dreams of pleasant streams
By happy, silent, moony beams!
Sweet Sleep, with soft down
Weave thy brows an infant crown
Sweet Sleep, angel mild,
Hover o'er my happy child!
Sweet smiles, in the night
Hover over my delight!
Sweet smiles, mother's smile,
All the livelong night beguile.
Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,
Chase not slumber from thine eyes!
Sweet moan, sweeter smile,
All the dovelike moans beguile.
Sleep, sleep, happy child!
All creation slept and smiled.
Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,
While o'er thee doth mother weep.
Sweet babe, in thy face
Holy image I can trace;
Sweet babe, once like thee
Thy Maker lay, and wept for me:
Wept for me, for thee, for all,
When He was an infant small.
Thou His image ever see,
Heavenly face that smiles on thee!
Smiles on thee, on me, on all,
Who became an infant small;
Infant smiles are his own smiles;
Heaven and earth to peace beguiles.
I THOUGHT no more was needed
Youth to polong
Than dumb-bell and foil
To keep the body young.
O who could have foretold
That thc heart grows old?
Though I have many words,
What woman's satisfied,
I am no longer faint
Because at her side?
O who could have foretold
That the heart grows old?
I have not lost desire
But the heart that I had;
I thOught 'twould burn my body
Laid on the death-bed,
For who could have foretold
That the heart grows old?
Let the snake wait under
his weed
and the writing
be of words, slow and quick, sharp
to strike, quiet to wait,
sleepless.
-- through metaphor to reconcile
the people and the stones.
Compose. (No ideas
but in things) Invent!
Saxifrage is my flower that splits
the rocks.
Young palmer sun, that to these shining sands
Pourest thy pilgrim's tale, discoursing still
Thy silver passages of sacred lands,
With news of Sepulchre and Dolorous Hill,
Canst thou be he that, yester-sunset warm,
Purple with Paynim rage and wrack desire,
Dashed ravening out of a dusty lair of Storm,
Harried the west, and set the world on fire?
Hast thou perchance repented, Saracen Sun?
Wilt warm the world with peace and dove-desire?
Or wilt thou, ere this very day be done,
Blaze Saladin still, with unforgiving fire?
The moon shimmers in green water.
White herons fly through the moonlight.
The young man hears a girl gathering water-chestnuts:
into the night, singing, they paddle home together.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Hamil
Know'st thou not at the fall of the leaf
How the heart feels a languid grief
Laid on it for a covering,
And how sleep seems a goodly thing
In Autumn at the fall of the leaf?
And how the swift beat of the brain
Falters because it is in vain,
In Autumn at the fall of the leaf
Knowest thou not? and how the chief
Of joys seems—not to suffer pain?
Know'st thou not at the fall of the leaf
How the soul feels like a dried sheaf
Bound up at length for harvesting,
And how death seems a comely thing
In Autumn at the fall of the leaf?
Now's the time when children's noses
All become as red as roses
And the colour of their faces
Makes me think of orchard places
Where the juicy apples grow,
And tomatoes in a row.
And to-day the hardened sinner
Never could be late for dinner,
But will jump up to the table
Just as soon as he is able,
Ask for three times hot roast mutton--
Oh! the shocking little glutton.
Come then, find your ball and racket,
Pop into your winter jacket,
With the lovely bear-skin lining.
While the sun is brightly shining,
Let us run and play together
And just love the autumn weather.
Like a joy on the heart of a sorrow,
The sunset hangs on a cloud;
A golden storm of glittering sheaves,
Of fair and frail and fluttering leaves,
The wild wind blows in a cloud.
Hark to a voice that is calling
To my heart in the voice of the wind:
My heart is weary and sad and alone,
For its dreams like the fluttering leaves have gone,
And why should I stay behind?
MOTLEY I count the only wear
That suits, in this mixed world, the truly wise,
Who boldly smile upon despair
And shake their bells in Grandam Grundy's eyes.
Singers should sing with such a goodly cheer
That the bare listening should make strong like wine,
At this unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.
We do not now parade our "oughts"
And "shoulds" and motives and beliefs in God.
Their life lies all indoors; sad thoughts
Must keep the house, while gay thoughts go abroad,
Within we hold the wake for hopes deceased;
But in the public streets, in wind or sun,
Keep open, at the annual feast,
The puppet-booth of fun.
Our powers, perhaps, are small to please,
But even negro-songs and castanettes,
Old jokes and hackneyed repartees
Are more than the parade of vain regrets.
Let Jacques stand Wert(h)ering by the wounded deer -
We shall make merry, honest friends of mine,
At this unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.
I know how, day by weary day,
Hope fades, love fades, a thousand pleasures fade.
I have not trudged in vain that way
On which life's daylight darkens, shade by shade.
And still, with hopes decreasing, griefs increased,
Still, with what wit I have shall I, for one,
Keep open, at the annual feast,
The puppet-booth of fun.
I care not if the wit be poor,
The old worn motley stained with rain and tears,
If but the courage still endure
That filled and strengthened hope in earlier years;
If still, with friends averted, fate severe,
A glad, untainted cheerfulness be mine
To greet the unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.
Priest, I am none of thine, and see
In the perspective of still hopeful youth
That Truth shall triumph over thee -
Truth to one's self - I know no other truth.
I see strange days for thee and thine, O priest,
And how your doctrines, fallen one by one,
Shall furnish at the annual feast
The puppet-booth of fun.
Stand on your putrid ruins - stand,
White neck-clothed bigot, fixedly the same,
Cruel with all things but the hand,
Inquisitor in all things but the name.
Back, minister of Christ and source of fear -
We cherish freedom - back with thee and thine
From this unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.
Blood thou mayest spare; but what of tears?
But what of riven households, broken faith -
Bywords that cling through all men's years
And drag them surely down to shame and death?
Stand back, O cruel man, O foe of youth,
And let such men as hearken not thy voice
Press freely up the road to truth,
The King's highway of choice.
Prepare, prepare the iron helm of war,
Bring forth the lots, cast in the spacious orb;
Th' Angel of Fate turns them with mighty hands,
And casts them out upon the darken'd earth!
Prepare, prepare!
Prepare your hearts for Death's cold hand! prepare
Your souls for flight, your bodies for the earth;
Prepare your arms for glorious victory;
Prepare your eyes to meet a holy God!
Prepare, prepare!
Whose fatal scroll is that? Methinks 'tis mine!
Why sinks my heart, why faltereth my tongue?
Had I three lives, I'd die in such a cause,
And rise, with ghosts, over the well-fought field.
Prepare, prepare!
The arrows of Almighty God are drawn!
Angels of Death stand in the louring heavens!
Thousands of souls must seek the realms of light,
And walk together on the clouds of heaven!
Prepare, prepare!
Soldiers, prepare! Our cause is Heaven's cause;
Soldiers, prepare! Be worthy of our cause:
Prepare to meet our fathers in the sky:
Prepare, O troops, that are to fall to-day!
Prepare, prepare!
Alfred shall smile, and make his harp rejoice;
The Norman William, and the learnèd Clerk,
And Lion Heart, and black-brow'd Edward, with
His loyal queen, shall rise, and welcome us!
Prepare, prepare!
Come, brother, come. Lets lift it;
come now, hewit! roll away!
Shackles fall upon the Judgment Day
But lets not wait for it.
God's body's got a soul,
Bodies like to roll the soul,
Cant blame God if we dont roll,
Come, brother, roll, roll!
Cotton bales are the fleecy way,
Weary sinner's bare feet trod,
Softly, softly to the throne of God,
"We aint agwine t wait until th Judgment Day!
Nassur; nassur,
Hump.
Eoho, eoho, roll away!
We aint agwine to wait until th Judgment Day!"
God's body's got a soul,
Bodies like to roll the soul,
Cant blame God if we dont roll,
Come, brother, roll, roll!
Sleep, sleep, beauty bright,
Dreaming in the joys of night;
Sleep, sleep; in thy sleep
Little sorrows sit and weep.
Sweet babe, in thy face
Soft desires I can trace,
Secret joys and secret smiles,
Little pretty infant wiles.
As thy softest limbs I feel
Smiles as of the morning steal
O'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breast
Where thy little heart doth rest.
O the cunning wiles that creep
In thy little heart asleep!
When thy little heart doth wake,
Then the dreadful night shall break.
Your house is
Falling down
Around
Your
Feet,
And you got
Nought
To eat,
Don't worry
Be happy.
Your fish
Have drowned
You wear
A frown,
You search
But you don't
Own a pound,
Don't worry
Be happy.
You ain't got
Nowhere to
Play,
Just balconies
And
Motorways,
Don't worry
Be happy.
You meet
Someone
You really like,
They tell you to
Get on your bike,
Don't worry
Be happy.
You're on your bike
And all is fine,
You get caught
In a washing line,
Don't worry
Be happy.
You go to school
The school is
Gone,
The Government
Put pressure on,
Don't worry
Be happy.
Your tea is
Dry
Your ice is
Hot,
Your head is
Tied up in a
Not,
Don't worry
Be happy.
You worry
Because
You're hurrying,
And hurry
Because
You're worrying,
Don't happy
Be worried.
My jolly fat host with your face all a-grin,
Come, open the door to us, let us come in.
A score of stout fellows who think it no sin
If they toast till they're hoarse, and drink till they spin,
Hoofed it amain
Rain or no rain,
To crack your old jokes, and your bottle to drain.
Such a warmth in the belly that nectar begets
As soon as his guts with its humour he wets,
The miser his gold, and the student his debts,
And the beggar his rags and his hunger forgets.
For there's never a wine
Like this tipple of thine
From the great hill of Nuits to the River of Rhine.
Outside you may hear the great gusts as they go
By Foy, by Duerne, and the hills of Lerraulx,
But the rain he may rain, and the wind he may blow,
If the Devil's above there's good liquor below.
So it abound,
Pass it around,
Burgundy's Burgundy all the year round.
INSCRIPTION FOR AN ANTIQUE PITCHER,
Come, old friend! sit down and listen!
From the pitcher, placed between us,
How the waters laugh and glisten
In the head of old Silenus!
Old Silenus, bloated, drunken,
Led by his inebriate Satyrs;
On his breast his head is sunken,
Vacantly he leers and chatters.
Fauns with youthful Bacchus follow;
Ivy crowns that brow supernal
As the forehead of Apollo,
And possessing youth eternal.
Round about him, fair Bacchantes,
Bearing cymbals, flutes, and thyrses,
Wild from Naxian groves, or Zante's
Vineyards, sing delirious verses.
Thus he won, through all the nations,
Bloodless victories, and the farmer
Bore, as trophies and oblations,
Vines for banners, ploughs for armor.
Judged by no o'erzealous rigor,
Much this mystic throng expresses:
Bacchus was the type of vigor,
And Silenus of excesses.
These are ancient ethnic revels,
Of a faith long since forsaken;
Now the Satyrs, changed to devils,
Frighten mortals wine-o'ertaken.
Now to rivulets from the mountains
Point the rods of fortune-tellers;
Youth perpetual dwells in fountains;
Not in flasks, and casks, and cellars.
Claudius, though he sang of flagons
And huge tankards filled with Rhenish,
From that fiery blood of dragons
Never would his own replenish.
Even Redi, though he chaunted
Bacchus in the Tuscan valleys,
Never drank the wine he vaunted
In his dithyrambic sallies.
Then with water fill the pitcher
Wreathed about with classic fables,
Ne'er Falernian threw a richer
Light upon Lucullus' tables.
Come, old friend, sit down and listen!
As it passes thus between us,
How its wavelets laugh and glisten
In the head of old Silenus!
Wine comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That's all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.
Ornamental clouds
compose an evening love song;
a road leaves evasively.
The new moon begins
a new chapter of our nights,
of those frail nights
we stretch out and which mingle
with these black horizontals.
Full moon rising on the waters of my heart,
Lakes and moon and fires,
Cloine tires,
Holding her lips apart.
Promises of slumber leaving shore to charm the moon,
Miracle made vesper-keeps,
Cloine sleeps,
And I'll be sleeping soon.
Cloine, curled like the sleepy waters whtere the moonwaves start,
Radiant, resplendently she gleams,
Cloine dreams,
Lips pressed against my heart.
I am a reaper whose muscles set at sundown. All my oats are cradled.
But I am too chilled, and too fatigued to bind them.
And I hunger.
I crack a grain between my teeth. I do not taste it.
I have been in the fields all day. My throat is dry.
I hunger.
My eyes are caked with dust of oatfields at harvest-time.
I am a blind man who stares across the hills, seeking stack'd fields of other harvesters.
It would be good to see them . . crook'd, split, and iron-ring'd handles of the scythes. It would be good to see them, dust-caked and blind. I hunger.
(Dusk is a strange fear'd sheath their blades are dull'd in.)
My throat is dry. And should I call, a cracked grain like the oats...eoho--
I fear to call. What should they hear me, and offer me their grain, oats, or wheat, or corn? I have been in the fields all day. I fear I could not taste it. I fear knowledge of my hunger.
My ears are caked with dust of oatfields at harvest-time.
I am a deaf man who strains to hear the calls of other harvesters whose throats are also dry.
It would be good to hear their songs . . reapers of the sweet-stalk'd cane, cutters of the corn...even though their throats cracked and the strangeness of their voices deafened me.
I hunger. My throat is dry. Now that the sun has set and I am chilled, I fear to call. (Eoho, my brothers!)
I am a reaper. (Eoho!) All my oats are cradled.
But I am too fatigued to bind them. And I hunger.
I crack a grain. It has no taste to it.
My throat is dry...
O my brothers, I beat my palms, still soft, against the stubble of my harvesting. (You beat your soft palms, too.) My pain is sweet. Sweeter than the oats or wheat or corn. It will not bring me knowledge of my hunger.
I could take the Harlem night
and wrap around you,
Take the neon lights and make a crown,
Take the Lenox Avenue busses,
Taxis, subways,
And for your love song tone their rumble down.
Take Harlem's heartbeat,
Make a drumbeat,
Put it on a record, let it whirl,
And while we listen to it play,
Dance with you till day--
Dance with you, my sweet brown Harlem girl.
Dark, dark, lay the drifters, against the red west,
As they shot their long meshes of steel overside;
And the oily green waters were rocking to rest
When Kilmeny went out, at the turn of the tide.
And nobody knew where that lassie would roam,
For the magic that called her was tapping unseen.
It was well nigh a week ere Kilmeny came home,
And nobody knew hwere Kilmeny had been.
She'd a gun at her bow that was Newcastle's best,
And a gun at her stern that was fresh from the Clyde,
And a secret her skipper had never confessed,
Not even at dawn, to his newly wed bride;
And a wireless that whispered above like a gnome,
The laughter of London, the boasts of Berlin.
O, it may have been mermaids that lured her from home,
But nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.
It was dark when Kilmeny came home from her quest,
With her bridge dabbled red where her skipper had died;
But she moved like a bride with a rose at her breast;
And "Well done,Kilmeny!" the admiral cried.
Now at sixty-four fathom a conger may come,
And nose at the bones of a drowned submarine;
But late in the evening Kilmeny came home,
And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.
There's a wandering shadow that stares at the foam,
Though they sing all night to old England, their queen,
Late, late in the evening Kilmeny came home,
And nobody knew where Kilmeny had been.
When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy,
And the dimpling stream runs laughing by;
When the air does laugh with our merry wit,
And the green hill laughs with the noise of it;
when the meadows laugh with lively green,
And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene,
When Mary and Susan and Emily
With their sweet round mouths sing 'Ha, ha he!'
When the painted birds laugh in the shade,
Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread:
Come live, and be merry, and join with me,
To sing the sweet chorus of 'Ha, ha, he!'
Love
Is a ripe plum
Growing on a purple tree.
Taste it once
And the spell of its enchantment
Will never let you be.
Love
Is a bright star
Glowing in far Southern skies.
Look too hard
And its burning flame
Will always hurt your eyes.
Love
Is a high mountain
Stark in a windy sky.
If you
Would never lose your breath
Do not climb too high.
My own dear love, he is strong and bold
And he cares not what comes after.
His words ring sweet as a chime of gold,
And his eyes are lit with laughter.
He is jubilant as a flag unfurled --
Oh, a girl, she'd not forget him.
My own dear love, he is all my world, --
And I wish I'd never met him.
My love, he's mad, and my love, he's fleet,
And a wild young wood-thing bore him!
The ways are fair to his roaming feet,
And the skies are sunlit for him.
As sharply sweet to my heart he seems
As the fragrance of acacia.
My own dear love, he is all my dreams, --
And I wish he were in Asia.
My love runs by like a day in June,
And he makes no friends of sorrows.
He'll tread his galloping rigadoon
In the pathway of the morrows.
He'll live his days where the sunbeams start,
Nor could storm or wind uproot him.
My own dear love, he is all my heart, --
And I wish somebody'd shoot him.
How can I keep my soul in me, so that
it doesn't touch your soul? How can I raise
it high enough, past you, to other things?
I would like to shelter it, among remote
lost objects, in some dark and silent place
that doesn't resonate when your depths resound.
Yet everything that touches us, me and you,
takes us together like a violin's bow,
which draws *one* voice out of two separate strings.
Upon what instrument are we two spanned?
And what musician holds us in his hand?
Oh sweetest song.
My love, we will go, we will go, I and you,
And away in the woods we will scatter the dew;
And the salmon behold, and the ousel too,
My love, we will hear, I and you, we will hear,
The calling afar of the doe and the deer.
And the bird in the branches will cry for us clear,
And the cuckoo unseen in his festival mood;
And death, oh my fair one, will never come near
In the bosom afar of the fragrant wood.
I lie here thinking of you:---
the stain of love
is upon the world!
Yellow, yellow, yellow
it eats into the leaves,
smears with saffron
the horned branched the lean
heavily
against a smooth purple sky!
There is no light
only a honey-thick stain
that drips from leaf to leaf
and limb to limb
spoiling the colors
of the whole world-
you far off there under
the wine-red selvage of the west!
Look not thou on beauty's charming;
Sit thou still when kings are arming;
Taste not when the wine-cup glistens;
Speak not when the people listens;
Stop thine ear against the singer;
From the red gold keep thy finger;
Vacant heart and hand and eye,
Easy live and quiet die.
The wild winds weep
And the night is a-cold;
Come hither, Sleep,
And my griefs infold:
But lo! the morning peeps
Over the eastern steeps,
And the rustling birds of dawn
The earth do scorn.
Lo! to the vault
Of paved heaven,
With sorrow fraught
My notes are driven:
They strike the ear of night,
Make weep the eyes of day;
They make mad the roaring winds,
And with tempests play.
Like a fiend in a cloud,
With howling woe,
After night I do crowd,
And with night will go;
I turn my back to the east,
From whence comforts have increas'd;
For light doth seize my brain
With frantic pain.
To drown the ancient sorrows,
we drank a hundred jugs of wine
there in the beautiful night.
We couldn't go to bed with the moon so bright.
The finally the wine overcame us
and we lay down on the empty mountain--
the earth for a pillow,
and a blanket made of heaven.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Hamil
He would declare and could himself believe
That the birds there in all the garden round
From having heard the daylong voice of Eve
Had added to their own an oversound,
Her tone of meaning but without the words.
Admittedly an eloquence so soft
Could only have had an influence on birds
When call or laughter carried it aloft.
Be that as may be, she was in their song.
Moreover her voice upon their voices crossed
Had now persisted in the woods so long
That probably it never would be lost.
Never again would birds' song be the same.
And to do that to birds was why she came.
The year's at the spring,
And day's at the morn;
Morning's at seven;
The hill-side's dew-pearl'd;
The lark's on the wing;
The snail's on the thorn;
God's in His heaven--
All's right with the world!
This is the one song everyone
would like to learn: the song
that is irresistible:
the song that forces men
to leap overboard in squadrons
even though they see beached skulls
the song nobody knows
because anyone who had heard it
is dead, and the others can’t remember.
Shall I tell you the secret
and if I do, will you get me
out of this bird suit?
I don’t enjoy it here
squatting on this island
looking picturesque and mythical
with these two feathery maniacs,
I don’t enjoy singing
this trio, fatal and valuable.
I will tell the secret to you,
to you, only to you.
Come closer. This song
is a cry for help: Help me!
Only you, only you can,
you are unique
at last. Alas
it is a boring song
but it works every time.
…do not send me out
among strangers
Sonia Sanchez
brothers,
this big woman
carries much sweetness
in the folds of her flesh.
her hair
is white with wonderful.
she is
rounder than the moon
and far more faithful.
brothers,
who will hold her,
who will find her beautiful
if you do not?
Again rejoicing nature sees
Her robe assume its vernal hues,
Her leafy looks wave in the breeze,
All freshly steep'd in morning dews.
And maun I still on Menie doat,
And bear the scorn that's in her ee?
For it's jet, jet black, an' it's like a hawk,
An' it winna let a body be!
In vain to me the cowslips blaw,
In vain to me the vi'lets spring;
In vain to me, in glen or shaw,
The mavis and the lintwhite sing.
And maun I still...
The merry ploughboy cheers his team,
Wi' joy the tentie seedsman stalks,
But life to me 's a weary dream,
A dream of ane that never wauks.
And maun I still...
The wanton coot the water skims,
Among the reeds the ducklings cry,
The stately swan majestic swims,
And every thing is blest but I.
And maun I still...
The shepherd steeks his faulding slap,
And owre the moorlands whistles shill,
Wi' wild, unequal, wand'ring step,
I meet him on the dewy hill.
And maun I still...
And when the lark, 'tween light and dark,
Blythe waukens by the daisy's side,
And mounts and sings on fluttering wings,
A woe-worn ghaist I hameward glide.
And maun I still...
Come, Winter, with thine angry howl,
And raging bend the naked tree;
Thy gloom will soothe my cheerless soul,
When Nature all is sad like me!
And maun I still...
Hidden, oh hidden
in the high fog
the house we live in,
beneath the magnetic rock,
rain-, rainbow-ridden,
where blood-black
bromelias, lichens,
owls, and the lint
of the waterfalls cling,
familiar, unbidden.
In a dim age
of water
the brook sings loud
from a rib cage
of giant fern; vapor
climbs up the thick growth
effortlessly, turns back,
holding them both,
house and rock,
in a private cloud.
At night, on the roof,
blind drops crawl
and the ordinary brown
owl gives us proof
he can count:
five times--always five--
he stamps and takes off
after the fat frogs that,
shrilling for love,
clamber and mount.
House, open house
to the white dew
and the milk-white sunrise
kind to the eyes,
to membership
of silver fish, mouse,
bookworms,
big moths; with a wall
for the mildew's
ignorant map;
darkened and tarnished
by the warm touch
of the warm breath,
maculate, cherished;
rejoice! For a later
era will differ.
(O difference that kills
or intimidates, much
of all our small shadowy
life!) Without water
the great rock will stare
unmagnetized, bare,
no longer wearing
rainbows or rain,
the forgiving air
and the high fog gone;
the owls will move on
and the several
waterfalls shrivel
in the steady sun.
There's a place I know where the birds swing low,
And wayward vines go roaming,
Where the lilacs nod, and a marble god
Is pale, in scented gloaming.
And at sunset there comes a lady fair
Whose eyes are deep with yearning.
By an old, old gate does the lady wait
Her own true love's returning.
But the days go by, and the lilacs die,
And trembling birds seek cover;
Yet the lady stands, with her long white hands
Held out to greet her lover.
And it's there she'll stay till the shadowy day
A monument they grave her.
She will always wait by the same old gate, --
The gate her true love gave her.
Mine are the night and morning,
The pits of air, the gulf of space,
The sportive sun, the gibbous moon,
The innumerable days.
I hid in the solar glory,
I am dumb in the pealing song,
I rest on the pitch of the torrent,
In slumber I am strong.
No numbers have counted my tallies,
No tribes my house can fill,
I sit by the shining Fount of Life,
And pour the deluge still;
And ever by delicate powers
Gathering along the centuries
From race on race the rarest flowers,
My wreath shall nothing miss.
And many a thousand summers
My apples ripened well,
And light from meliorating stars
With firmer glory fell.
I wrote the past in characters
Of rock and fire the scroll,
The building in the coral sea,
The planting of the coal.
And thefts from satellites and rings
And broken stars I drew,
And out of spent and aged things
I formed the world anew;
What time the gods kept carnival,
Tricked out in star and flower,
And in cramp elf and saurian forms
They swathed their too much power.
Time and Thought were my surveyors,
They laid their courses well,
They boiled the sea, and baked the layers
Or granite, marl, and shell.
But he, the man-child glorious,--
Where tarries he the while?
The rainbow shines his harbinger,
The sunset gleams his smile.
My boreal lights leap upward,
Forthright my planets roll,
And still the man-child is not born,
The summit of the whole.
Must time and tide forever run?
Will never my winds go sleep in the west?
Will never my wheels which whirl the sun
And satellites have rest?
Too much of donning and doffing,
Too slow the rainbow fades,
I weary of my robe of snow,
My leaves and my cascades;
I tire of globes and races,
Too long the game is played;
What without him is summer's pomp,
Or winter's frozen shade?
I travail in pain for him,
My creatures travail and wait;
His couriers come by squadrons,
He comes not to the gate.
Twice I have moulded an image,
And thrice outstretched my hand,
Made one of day, and one of night,
And one of the salt sea-sand.
One in a Judaean manger,
And one by Avon stream,
One over against the mouths of Nile,
And one in the Academe.
I moulded kings and saviours,
And bards o'er kings to rule;--
But fell the starry influence short,
The cup was never full.
Yet whirl the glowing wheels once more,
And mix the bowl again;
Seethe, fate! the ancient elements,
Heat, cold, wet, dry, and peace, and pain.
Let war and trade and creeds and song
Blend, ripen race on race,
The sunburnt world a man shall breed
Of all the zones, and countless days.
No ray is dimmed, no atom worn,
My oldest force is good as new,
And the fresh rose on yonder thorn
Gives back the bending heavens in dew.
Oh, I should like to ride the seas,
A roaring buccaneer;
A cutlass banging at my knees,
A dirk behind my ear.
And when my captives' chains would clank
I'd howl with glee and drink,
And then fling out the quivering plank
And watch the beggars sink.
I'd like to straddle gory decks,
And dig in laden sands,
And know the feel of throbbing necks
Between my knotted hands.
Oh, I should like to strut and curse
Among my blackguard crew....
But I am writing little verse,
As little ladies do.
Oh, I should like to dance and laugh
And pose and preen and sway,
And rip the hearts of men in half,
And toss the bits away.
I'd like to view the reeling years
Through unastonished eyes,
And dip my finger-tips in tears,
And give my smiles for sighs.
I'd stroll beyond the ancient bounds,
And tap at fastened gates,
And hear the prettiest of sound-
The clink of shattered fates.
My slaves I'd like to bind with thongs
That cut and burn and chill....
But I am writing little songs,
As little ladies will.
The moonlight breaks upon the city's domes,
And falls along cemented steel and stone,
Upon the grayness of a million homes,
Lugubrious in unchanging monotone.
Upon the clothes behind the tenement,
That hang like ghosts suspended from the lines,
Linking each flat to each indifferent,
Incongruous and strange the moonlight shines.
There is no magic from your presence here,
Ho, moon, sad moon, tuck up your trailing robe,
Whose silver seems antique and so severe
Against the glow of one electric globe.
Go spill your beauty on the laughing faces
Of happy flowers that bloom a thousand hues,
Waiting on tiptoe in the wilding spaces,
To drink your wine mixed with sweet drafts of dews.
I think that I shall never see
A billboard lovely as a tree
Indeed, unless the billboards fall
I'll never see a tree at all.
AFOOT and light-hearted, I take to the open road,
Healthy, free, the world before me,
The long brown path before me, leading wherever I choose.
Henceforth I ask not good-fortune--I myself am good fortune;
Henceforth I whimper no more, postpone no more, need nothing,
Strong and content, I travel the open road.
The earth--that is sufficient;
I do not want the constellations any nearer;
I know they are very well where they are;
I know they suffice for those who belong to them.                  10
(Still here I carry my old delicious burdens;
I carry them, men and women--I carry them with me wherever I go;
I swear it is impossible for me to get rid of them;
I am fill'd with them, and I will fill them in return.)
You road I enter upon and look around! I believe you are not all that
is here;
I believe that much unseen is also here.
Here the profound lesson of reception, neither preference or denial;
The black with his woolly head, the felon, the diseas'd, the
illiterate person, are not denied;
The birth, the hasting after the physician, the beggar's tramp, the
drunkard's stagger, the laughing party of mechanics,
The escaped youth, the rich person's carriage, the fop, the eloping
couple,                                                      20
The early market-man, the hearse, the moving of furniture into the
town, the return back from the town,
They pass--I also pass--anything passes--none can be interdicted;
None but are accepted--none but are dear to me.
You air that serves me with breath to speak!
You objects that call from diffusion my meanings, and give them
shape!
You light that wraps me and all things in delicate equable showers!
You paths worn in the irregular hollows by the roadsides!
I think you are latent with unseen existences--you are so dear to me.
You flagg'd walks of the cities! you strong curbs at the edges!
You ferries! you planks and posts of wharves! you timber-lined sides!
you distant ships!                                           30
You rows of houses! you window-pierc'd façades! you roofs!
You porches and entrances! you copings and iron guards!
You windows whose transparent shells might expose so much!
You doors and ascending steps! you arches!
You gray stones of interminable pavements! you trodden crossings!
From all that has been near you, I believe you have imparted to
yourselves, and now would impart the same secretly to me;
From the living and the dead I think you have peopled your impassive
surfaces, and the spirits thereof would be evident and amicable
with me.
The earth expanding right hand and left hand,
The picture alive, every part in its best light,
The music falling in where it is wanted, and stopping where it is not
wanted,                                                      40
The cheerful voice of the public road--the gay fresh sentiment of the
road.
O highway I travel! O public road! do you say to me, Do not leave me?
Do you say, Venture not? If you leave me, you are lost?
Do you say, I am already prepared--I am well-beaten and undenied--
adhere to me?
O public road! I say back, I am not afraid to leave you--yet I love
you;
You express me better than I can express myself;
You shall be more to me than my poem.
I think heroic deeds were all conceiv'd in the open air, and all
great poems also;
I think I could stop here myself, and do miracles;
(My judgments, thoughts, I henceforth try by the open air, the
road;)                                                       50
I think whatever I shall meet on the road I shall like, and whoever
beholds me shall like me;
I think whoever I see must be happy.
From this hour, freedom!
From this hour I ordain myself loos'd of limits and imaginary lines,
Going where I list, my own master, total and absolute,
Listening to others, and considering well what they say,
Pausing, searching, receiving, contemplating,
Gently, but with undeniable will, divesting myself of the holds that
would hold me.
I inhale great draughts of space;
The east and the west are mine, and the north and the south are
mine.                                                        60
I am larger, better than I thought;
I did not know I held so much goodness.
All seems beautiful to me;
I can repeat over to men and women, You have done such good to me, I
would do the same to you.
I will recruit for myself and you as I go;
I will scatter myself among men and women as I go;
I will toss the new gladness and roughness among them;
Whoever denies me, it shall not trouble me;
Whoever accepts me, he or she shall be blessed, and shall bless me.
Now if a thousand perfect men were to appear, it would not amaze
me;                                                          70
Now if a thousand beautiful forms of women appear'd, it would not
astonish me.
Now I see the secret of the making of the best persons,
It is to grow in the open air, and to eat and sleep with the earth.
Here a great personal deed has room;
A great deed seizes upon the hearts of the whole race of men,
Its effusion of strength and will overwhelms law, and mocks all
authority and all argument against it.
Here is the test of wisdom;
Wisdom is not finally tested in schools;
Wisdom cannot be pass'd from one having it, to another not having it;
Wisdom is of the Soul, is not susceptible of proof, is its own
proof,                                                       80
Applies to all stages and objects and qualities, and is content,
Is the certainty of the reality and immortality of things, and the
excellence of things;
Something there is in the float of the sight of things that provokes
it out of the Soul.
Now I reëxamine philosophies and religions,
They may prove well in lecture-rooms, yet not prove at all under the
spacious clouds, and along the landscape and flowing currents.
Here is realization;
Here is a man tallied--he realizes here what he has in him;
The past, the future, majesty, love--if they are vacant of you, you
are vacant of them.
Only the kernel of every object nourishes;
Where is he who tears off the husks for you and me?                90
Where is he that undoes stratagems and envelopes for you and me?
Here is adhesiveness--it is not previously fashion'd--it is apropos;
Do you know what it is, as you pass, to be loved by strangers?
Do you know the talk of those turning eye-balls?
Here is the efflux of the Soul;
The efflux of the Soul comes from within, through embower'd gates,
ever provoking questions:
These yearnings, why are they? These thoughts in the darkness, why
are they?
Why are there men and women that while they are nigh me, the sun-
light expands my blood?
Why, when they leave me, do my pennants of joy sink flat and lank?
Why are there trees I never walk under, but large and melodious
thoughts descend upon me?                                   100
(I think they hang there winter and summer on those trees, and always
drop fruit as I pass;)
What is it I interchange so suddenly with strangers?
What with some driver, as I ride on the seat by his side?
What with some fisherman, drawing his seine by the shore, as I walk
by, and pause?
What gives me to be free to a woman's or man's good-will? What gives
them to be free to mine?
The efflux of the Soul is happiness--here is happiness;
I think it pervades the open air, waiting at all times;
Now it flows unto us--we are rightly charged.
Here rises the fluid and attaching character;
The fluid and attaching character is the freshness and sweetness of
man and woman;                                              110
(The herbs of the morning sprout no fresher and sweeter every day out
of the roots of themselves, than it sprouts fresh and sweet
continually out of itself.)
Toward the fluid and attaching character exudes the sweat of the love
of young and old;
From it falls distill'd the charm that mocks beauty and attainments;
Toward it heaves the shuddering longing ache of contact.
Allons! whoever you are, come travel with me!
Traveling with me, you find what never tires.
The earth never tires;
The earth is rude, silent, incomprehensible at first--Nature is rude
and incomprehensible at first;
Be not discouraged--keep on--there are divine things, well envelop'd;
I swear to you there are divine things more beautiful than words can
tell.                                                       120
Allons! we must not stop here!
However sweet these laid-up stores--however convenient this dwelling,
we cannot remain here;
However shelter'd this port, and however calm these waters, we must
not anchor here;
However welcome the hospitality that surrounds us, we are permitted
to receive it but a little while.
Allons! the inducements shall be greater;
We will sail pathless and wild seas;
We will go where winds blow, waves dash, and the Yankee clipper
speeds by under full sail.
Allons! with power, liberty, the earth, the elements!
Health, defiance, gayety, self-esteem, curiosity;
Allons! from all formules!                                        130
From your formules, O bat-eyed and materialistic priests!
The stale cadaver blocks up the passage--the burial waits no longer.
Allons! yet take warning!
He traveling with me needs the best blood, thews, endurance;
None may come to the trial, till he or she bring courage and health.
Come not here if you have already spent the best of yourself;
Only those may come, who come in sweet and determin'd bodies;
No diseas'd person--no rum-drinker or venereal taint is permitted
here.
I and mine do not convince by arguments, similes, rhymes;
We convince by our presence.                                      140
Listen! I will be honest with you;
I do not offer the old smooth prizes, but offer rough new prizes;
These are the days that must happen to you:
You shall not heap up what is call'd riches,
You shall scatter with lavish hand all that you earn or achieve,
You but arrive at the city to which you were destin'd--you hardly
settle yourself to satisfaction, before you are call'd by an
irresistible call to depart,
You shall be treated to the ironical smiles and mockings of those who
remain behind you;
What beckonings of love you receive, you shall only answer with
passionate kisses of parting,
You shall not allow the hold of those who spread their reach'd hands
toward you.
Allons! after the GREAT COMPANIONS! and to belong to them!        150
They too are on the road! they are the swift and majestic men; they
are the greatest women.
Over that which hinder'd them--over that which retarded--passing
impediments large or small,
Committers of crimes, committers of many beautiful virtues,
Enjoyers of calms of seas, and storms of seas,
Sailors of many a ship, walkers of many a mile of land,
Habitués of many distant countries, habitués of far-distant dwellings,
Trusters of men and women, observers of cities, solitary toilers,
Pausers and contemplators of tufts, blossoms, shells of the shore,
Dancers at wedding-dances, kissers of brides, tender helpers of
children, bearers of children,
Soldiers of revolts, standers by gaping graves, lowerers down of
coffins,                                                    160
Journeyers over consecutive seasons, over the years--the curious
years, each emerging from that which preceded it,
Journeyers as with companions, namely, their own diverse phases,
Forth-steppers from the latent unrealized baby-days,
Journeyers gayly with their own youth--Journeyers with their bearded
and well-grain'd manhood,
Journeyers with their womanhood, ample, unsurpass'd, content,
Journeyers with their own sublime old age of manhood or womanhood,
Old age, calm, expanded, broad with the haughty breadth of the
universe,
Old age, flowing free with the delicious near-by freedom of death.
Allons! to that which is endless, as it was beginningless,
To undergo much, tramps of days, rests of nights,                 170
To merge all in the travel they tend to, and the days and nights they
tend to,
Again to merge them in the start of superior journeys;
To see nothing anywhere but what you may reach it and pass it,
To conceive no time, however distant, but what you may reach it and
pass it,
To look up or down no road but it stretches and waits for you--
however long, but it stretches and waits for you;
To see no being, not God's or any, but you also go thither,
To see no possession but you may possess it--enjoying all without
labor or purchase--abstracting the feast, yet not abstracting
one particle of it;
To take the best of the farmer's farm and the rich man's elegant
villa, and the chaste blessings of the well-married couple, and
the fruits of orchards and flowers of gardens,
To take to your use out of the compact cities as you pass through,
To carry buildings and streets with you afterward wherever you
go,                                                         180
To gather the minds of men out of their brains as you encounter
them--to gather the love out of their hearts,
To take your lovers on the road with you, for all that you leave them
behind you,
To know the universe itself as a road--as many roads--as roads for
traveling souls.
The Soul travels;
The body does not travel as much as the soul;
The body has just as great a work as the soul, and parts away at last
for the journeys of the soul.
All parts away for the progress of souls;
All religion, all solid things, arts, governments,--all that was or
is apparent upon this globe or any globe, falls into niches and
corners before the procession of Souls along the grand roads of
the universe.
Of the progress of the souls of men and women along the grand roads
of the universe, all other progress is the needed emblem and
sustenance.
Forever alive, forever forward,                                   190
Stately, solemn, sad, withdrawn, baffled, mad, turbulent, feeble,
dissatisfied,
Desperate, proud, fond, sick, accepted by men, rejected by men,
They go! they go! I know that they go, but I know not where they go;
But I know that they go toward the best--toward something great.
Allons! whoever you are! come forth!
You must not stay sleeping and dallying there in the house, though
you built it, or though it has been built for you.
Allons! out of the dark confinement!
It is useless to protest--I know all, and expose it.
Behold, through you as bad as the rest,
Through the laughter, dancing, dining, supping, of people,        200
Inside of dresses and ornaments, inside of those wash'd and trimm'd
faces,
Behold a secret silent loathing and despair.
No husband, no wife, no friend, trusted to hear the confession;
Another self, a duplicate of every one, skulking and hiding it goes,
Formless and wordless through the streets of the cities, polite and
bland in the parlors,
In the cars of rail-roads, in steamboats, in the public assembly,
Home to the houses of men and women, at the table, in the bed-room,
everywhere,
Smartly attired, countenance smiling, form upright, death under the
breast-bones, hell under the skull-bones,
Under the broadcloth and gloves, under the ribbons and artificial
flowers,
Keeping fair with the customs, speaking not a syllable of itself, 210
Speaking of anything else, but never of itself.
Allons! through struggles and wars!
The goal that was named cannot be countermanded.
Have the past struggles succeeded?
What has succeeded? yourself? your nation? nature?
Now understand me well--It is provided in the essence of things, that
from any fruition of success, no matter what, shall come forth
something to make a greater struggle necessary.
My call is the call of battle--I nourish active rebellion;
He going with me must go well arm'd;
He going with me goes often with spare diet, poverty, angry enemies,
desertions.
Allons! the road is before us!                                    220
It is safe--I have tried it--my own feet have tried it well.
Allons! be not detain'd!
Let the paper remain on the desk unwritten, and the book on the shelf unopen'd!
Let the tools remain in the workshop! let the money remain unearn'd!
Let the school stand! mind not the cry of the teacher!
Let the preacher preach in his pulpit! let the lawyer plead in the court, and the judge expound the law.
Mon enfant! I give you my hand!
I give you my love, more precious than money,
I give you myself, before preaching or law;
Will you give me yourself? will you come travel with me?          230
Shall we stick by each other as long as we live?
Pour O pour that parting soul in song
O pour it in the sawdust glow of night
Into the velvet pine-smoke air tonight,
And let the valley carry it along.
And let the valley carry it along.
O land and soil, red soil and sweet-gum tree,
So scant of grass, so proligate of pines,
Now hust before an epoch's sun declines
Thy son, in time, I have returned to thee,
Thy son, I have in time returned to thee.
In time, for though the sun is setting on
A song-lit race of slaves, it has not set;
Though late, O soil, it is not too late yet
To catch thy plaintive soul, leaving, soon gone,
Leaving, to catch thy plaintive soul soon gone.
O Negro slaves, dark purple ripened plums,
Squeezed, and bursting in the pine-wood air,
Passing, before they stripped the old tree bare
One plum was saved for me, one seed becomes
an everlasting song, a singing tree,
Caroling softly souls of slavery,
What they were, and what they are to me,
Caroling softly souls of slavery.
I came to the door of the House of Love
And knocked as the starry night went by;
And my true love cried "Who knocks?" and I said
"It is I."
And Love looked down from a lattice above
Where the roses were dry as the lips of the dead:
"There is not room in the House of Love
For you both," he said.
I plucked a leaf from the porch and crept
Away through a desert of scoffs and scorns
To a lonely place where I prayed and wept
And wove me a crown of thorns.
I came once more to the House of Love
And knocked, ah, softly and wistfully,
And my true love cried "Who knocks?" and I said
"None now but thee."
And the great doors opened wide apart
And a voice rang out from a glory of light,
"Make room, make room for a faithful heart
In the House of Love, to-night."
The weight of the world
is love.
Under the burden
of solitude,
under the burden
of dissatisfaction
the weight,
the weight we carry
is love.
Who can deny?
In dreams
it touches
the body,
in thought
constructs
a miracle,
in imagination
anguishes
till born
in human--
looks out of the heart
burning with purity--
for the burden of life
is love,
but we carry the weight
wearily,
and so must rest
in the arms of love
at last,
must rest in the arms
of love.
No rest
without love,
no sleep
without dreams
of love--
be mad or chill
obsessed with angels
or machines,
the final wish
is love
--cannot be bitter,
cannot deny,
cannot withhold
if denied:
the weight is too heavy
--must give
for no return
as thought
is given
in solitude
in all the excellence
of its excess.
The warm bodies
shine together
in the darkness,
the hand moves
to the center
of the flesh,
the skin trembles
in happiness
and the soul comes
joyful to the eye--
yes, yes,
that's what
I wanted,
I always wanted,
I always wanted,
to return
to the body
where I was born.
When I am dead, my dearest,
Sing no sad songs for me;
Plant thou no roses at my head,
Nor shady cypress tree:
Be the green grass above me
With showers and dewdrops wet;
And if thou wilt, remember,
And if thou wilt, forget.
I shall not see the shadows,
I shall not feel the rain;
I shall not hear the nightingale
Sing on, as if in pain:
And dreaming through the twilight
That doth not rise nor set,
Haply I may remember,
And haply may forget.
I saw thee on thy bridal day-
When a burning blush came o'er thee,
Though happiness around thee lay,
The world all love before thee:
And in thine eye a kindling light
(Whatever it might be)
Was all on Earth my aching sight
Of Loveliness could see.
That blush, perhaps, was maiden shame-
As such it well may pass-
Though its glow hath raised a fiercer flame
In the breast of him, alas!
Who saw thee on that bridal day,
When that deep blush would come o'er thee,
Though happiness around thee lay;
The world all love before thee.
Winter is icummen in,
Lhude sing Goddamm,
Raineth drop and staineth slop,
and how the wind doth ramm,
Sing: Goddamm.
Skiddeth bus and sloppeth us,
An ague hath my ham.
Freezeth river, turneth liver,
Damn you, sing: Goddamm.
Goddamm, Goddamm, 'tis why I am, Goddamm,
So 'gainst the winter's balm.
Sing goddamm, damm, sing Goddamm,
Sing goddamm, sing goddamm, DAMM.
Sweetest love, I do not go,
For weariness of thee,
Nor in hope the world can show
A fitter love for me;
But since that I
Must die at last, 'tis best
To use myself in jest
Thus by feign'd deaths to die.
Yesternight the sun went hence,
And yet is here today;
He hath no desire nor sense,
Nor half so short a way:
Then fear not me,
But believe that I shall make
Speedier journeys, since I take
More wings and spurs than he.
O how feeble is man's power,
That if good fortune fall,
Cannot add another hour,
Nor a lost hour recall!
But come bad chance,
And we join to'it our strength,
And we teach it art and length,
Itself o'er us to'advance.
When thou sigh'st, thou sigh'st not wind,
But sigh'st my soul away;
When thou weep'st, unkindly kind,
My life's blood doth decay.
It cannot be
That thou lov'st me, as thou say'st,
If in thine my life thou waste,
That art the best of me.
Let not thy divining heart
Forethink me any ill;
Destiny may take thy part,
And may thy fears fulfil;
But think that we
Are but turn'd aside to sleep;
They who one another keep
Alive, ne'er parted be.
My silks and fine array,
My smiles and languish'd air,
By love are driv'n away;
And mournful lean Despair
Brings me yew to deck my grave;
Such end true lovers have.
His face is fair as heav'n
When springing buds unfold;
O why to him was't giv'n
Whose heart is wintry cold?
His breast is love's all-worshipp'd tomb,
Where all love's pilgrims come.
Bring me an axe and spade,
Bring me a winding sheet;
When I my grave have made
Let winds and tempests beat:
Then down I'll lie as cold as clay.
True love doth pass away!
My heart leaps up when I behold
A rainbow in the sky;
Contrariwise, my blood runs cold
When little boys go by.
For little boys as little boys,
No special hate I carry,
But now and then they grow to men,
And when they do, they marry.
No matter how they tarry,
Eventually they marry.
And, swine among the pearls,
They marry little girls.
Oh, somewhere, somewhere, an infant plays,
With parents who feed and clothe him.
Their lips are sticky with pride and praise,
But I have begun to loathe him.
Yes, I loathe with loathing shameless
This child who to me is nameless.
This bachelor child in his carriage
Gives never a thought to marriage,
But a person can hardly say knife
Before he will hunt him a wife.
I never see an infant (male),
A-sleeping in the sun,
Without I turn a trifle pale
And think is he the one?
Oh, first he'll want to crop his curls,
And then he'll want a pony,
And then he'll think of pretty girls,
And holy matrimony.
A cat without a mouse
Is he without a spouse.
Oh, somewhere he bubbles bubbles of milk,
And quietly sucks his thumbs.
His cheeks are roses painted on silk,
And his teeth are tucked in his gums.
But alas the teeth will begin to grow,
And the bubbles will cease to bubble;
Given a score of years or so,
The roses will turn to stubble.
He'll sell a bond, or he'll write a book,
And his eyes will get that acquisitive look,
And raging and ravenous for the kill,
He'll boldly ask for the hand of Jill.
This infant whose middle
Is diapered still
Will want to marry My daughter Jill.
Oh sweet be his slumber and moist his middle!
My dreams, I fear, are infanticiddle.
A fig for embryo Lohengrins!
I'll open all his safety pins,
I'll pepper his powder, and salt his bottle,
And give him readings from Aristotle.
Sand for his spinach I'll gladly bring,
And Tabasco sauce for his teething ring.
Then perhaps he'll struggle though fire and water
To marry somebody else's daughter.
Before man to blow to right
The wind once blew itself untaught,
And did its loudest day and night
In any rough place where it caught.
Man came to tell it what was wrong:
It hadn't found the place to blow;
It blew too hard - the aim was song.
And listen - how it ought to go!
He took a little in his mouth,
And held it long enough for north
To be converted into south,
And then by measure blew it forth.
By measure. It was word and note,
The wind the wind had meant to be -
A little through the lips and throat.
The aim was song - the wind could see.
I shot an arrow into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where;
For, so swiftly it flew, the sight
Could not follow it in its flight.
I breathed a song into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where;
For who has sight so keen and strong,
That it can follow the flight of song?
Long, long afterward, in an oak
I found the arrow, still unbroke;
And the song, from beginning to end,
I found again in the heart of a friend.
Mine, says the cat, putting out his paw of darkness.
My lover, my friend, my slave, my toy, says
the cat making on your chest his gesture of drawing
milk from his mother's forgotten breasts.
Let us walk in the woods, says the cat.
I'll teach you to read the tabloid of scents,
to fade into shadow, wait like a trap, to hunt.
Now I lay this plump warm mouse on your mat.
You feed me, I try to feed you, we are friends,
says the cat, although I am more equal than you.
Can you leap twenty times the height of your body?
Can you run up and down trees? Jump between roofs?
Let us rub our bodies together and talk of touch.
My emotions are pure as salt crystals and as hard.
My lusts glow like my eyes. I sing to you in the mornings
walking round and round your bed and into your face.
Come I will teach you to dance as naturally
as falling asleep and waking and stretching long, long.
I speak greed with my paws and fear with my whiskers.
Envy lashes my tail. Love speaks me entire, a word
of fur. I will teach you to be still as an egg
and to slip like the ghost of wind through the grass.
I am a feather on the bright sky
I am the blue horse that runs in the plain
I am the fish that rolls, shining, in the water
I am the shadow that follows a child
I am the evening light, the lustre of meadows
I am an eagle playing with the wind
I am a cluster of bright beads
I am the farthest star
I am the cold of the dawn
I am the roaring of the rain
I am the glitter on the crust of the snow
I am the long track of the moon in a lake
I am a flame of four colors
I am a deer standing away in the dusk
I am a field of sumac and pomme blanche
I am an angle of geese in the winter sky
I am the hunger of a young wolf
I am the whole dream of these things
You see, I am alive, I am alive
I stand in good relation to the Gods
I stand in good relation to the earth
I stand in good relation to everything that is beautiful...
You see, I am alive, I am alive
He thought he saw an Elephant,
That practised on a fife:
He looked again, and found it was
A letter from his wife.
'At length I realise,' he said,
The bitterness of Life!'
He thought he saw a Buffalo
Upon the chimney-piece:
He looked again, and found it was
His Sister's Husband's Niece.
'Unless you leave this house,' he said,
'I'll send for the Police!'
He thought he saw a Rattlesnake
That questioned him in Greek:
He looked again, and found it was
The Middle of Next Week.
'The one thing I regret,' he said,
'Is that it cannot speak!'
He thought he saw a Banker's Clerk
Descending from the bus:
He looked again, and found it was
A Hippopotamus.
'If this should stay to dine,' he said,
'There won't be much for us!'
He thought he saw a Kangaroo
That worked a coffee-mill:
He looked again, and found it was
A Vegetable-Pill.
'Were I to swallow this,' he said,
'I should be very ill!'
He thought he saw a Coach-and-Four
That stood beside his bed:
He looked again, and found it was
A Bear without a Head.
'Poor thing,' he said, 'poor silly thing!
It's waiting to be fed!'
He thought he saw an Albatross
That fluttered round the lamp:
He looked again, and found it was
A Penny-Postage Stamp.
'You'd best be getting home,' he said:
'The nights are very damp!'
He thought he saw a Garden-Door
That opened with a key:
He looked again, and found it was
A Double Rule of Three:
'And all its mystery,' he said,
'Is clear as day to me!'
He thought he saw a Argument
That proved he was the Pope:
He looked again, and found it was
A Bar of Mottled Soap.
'A fact so dread,' he faintly said,
'Extinguishes all hope!'
I.
If souls could sing to heaven's high King
As blackbirds pipe on earth,
How those delicious courts would ring
With gusts of lovely mirth!
What white-robed throng could lift a song
So mellow with righteous glee
As this brown bird that all day long
Delights my hawthorn tree.
Hark! That's the thrush
With speckled breast
From yon white bush
Chaunting his best,
Te Deum! Te Deum laudamus!
II.
If earthly dreams be touched with gleams
Of Paradisal air,
Some wings, perchance, of earth may glance
Around our slumbers there;
Some breaths of may might drift our way
With scents of leaf and loam,
Some whistling bird at dawn be heard
From those old woods of home.
Hark! That's the thrush
With speckled breast
From yon white bush
Chaunting his best,
Te Deum! Te Deum laudamus!
III.
No King or priest shall mar my feast
Where'er my soul may range.
I have no fear of heaven's good cheer
Unless our Master change.
But when death's night is dying away,
If I might choose my bliss,
My love should say, at break of day,
With her first waking kiss:--
Hark! That's the thrush
With speckled breast,
From yon white bush
Chaunting his best,
Te Deum! Te Deum laudamus!
Pelagius lived at Kardanoel
And taught a doctrine there
How, whether you went to heaven or to hell
It was your own affair.
It had nothing to do with the Church, my boy,
But was your own affair.
No, he didn't believe
In Adam and Eve
He put no faith therein!
His doubts began
With the Fall of Man
And he laughed at Original Sin.
With my row-ti-tow
Ti-oodly-ow
He laughed at original sin.
Then came the bishop of old Auxerre
Germanus was his name
He tore great handfuls out of his hair
And he called Pelagius shame.
And with his stout Episcopal staff
So thoroughly whacked and banged
The heretics all, both short and tall --
They rather had been hanged.
Oh he whacked them hard, and he banged them long
Upon each and all occasions
Till they bellowed in chorus, loud and strong
Their orthodox persuasions.
With my row-ti-tow
Ti-oodly-ow
Their orthodox persuasions.
Now the faith is old and the Devil bold
Exceedingly bold indeed.
And the masses of doubt that are floating about
Would smother a mortal creed.
But we that sit in a sturdy youth
And still can drink strong ale
Let us put it away to infallible truth
That always shall prevail.
And thank the Lord
For the temporal sword
And howling heretics too.
And all good things
Our Christendom brings
But especially barley brew!
With my row-ti-tow
Ti-oodly-ow
Especially barley brew!
Through the black, rushing smoke-bursts,
Thick breaks the red flame.
All Etna heaves fiercely
Her forest-clothed frame.
Not here, O Apollo!
Are haunts meet for thee.
But, where Helicon breaks down
In cliff to the sea.
Where the moon-silver'd inlets
Send far their light voice
Up the still vale of Thisbe,
O speed, and rejoice!
On the sward at the cliff-top,
Lie strewn the white flocks;
On the cliff-side, the pigeons
Roost deep in the rocks.
In the moonlight the shepherds,
Soft lull'd by the rills,
Lie wrapt in their blankets,
Asleep on the hills.
—What forms are these coming
So white through the gloom?
What garments out-glistening
The gold-flower'd broom?
What sweet-breathing Presence
Out-perfumes the thyme?
What voices enrapture
The night's balmy prime?—
'Tis Apollo comes leading
His choir, The Nine.
—The Leader is fairest,
But all are divine.
They are lost in the hollows.
They stream up again.
What seeks on this mountain
The glorified train?—
They bathe on this mountain,
In the spring by their road.
Then on to Olympus,
Their endless abode.
—Whose praise do they mention:
Of what is it told?—
What will be for ever.
What was from of old.
First hymn they the Father
Of all things: and then,
The rest of Immortals,
The action of men.
The Day in his hotness,
The strife with the palm;
The Night in her silence,
The Stars in their calm.
You swallowed everything, like distance.
Like the sea, like time.
In you everything sank!
It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss.
The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse.
Pilot's dread, fury of a blind diver,
turbulent drunkenness of love,
in you everything sank!
AFRICA
I will sing you a song of Los. the Eternal Prophet:
He sung it to four harps at the tables of Eternity.
In heart-formed Africa.
Urizen faded! Ariston shudderd!
And thus the Song began
Adam stood in the garden of Eden:
And Noah on the mountains of Ararat;
They saw Urizen give his Laws to the Nations
By the hands of the children of Los.
Adam shudderd! Noah faded! black grew the sunny African
When Rintrah gave Abstract Philosophy to Brama in the East:
(Night spoke to the Cloud!
Lo these Human form'd spirits in smiling hipocrisy. War
Against one another; so let them War on; slaves to the eternal Elements)
Noah shrunk, beneath the waters;
Abram fled in fires from Chaldea;
Moses beheld upon Mount Sinai forms of dark delusion:
To Trismegistus. Palamabron gave an abstract Law:
To Pythagoras Socrates & Plato.
Times rolled on o'er all the sons of Har, time after time
Orc on Mount Atlas howld, chain'd down with the Chain of Jealousy
Then Oothoon hoverd over Judah & Jerusalem
And Jesus heard her voice (a man of sorrows) he recievd
A Gospel from wretched Theotormon.
The human race began to wither, for the healthy built
Secluded places, fearing the joys of Love
And the disease'd only propagated:
So Antamon call'd up Leutha from her valleys of delight:
And to Mahomet a loose Bible gave.
But in the North, to Odin, Sotha gave a Code of War,
Because of Diralada thinking to reclaim his joy.
These were the Churches: Hospitals: Castles: Palaces:
Like nets & gins & traps to catch the joys of Eternity
And all the rest a desart;
Till like a dream Eternity was obliterated & erased.
Since that dread day when Har and Heva fled.
Because their brethren & sisters liv'd in War & Lust;
And as they fled they shrunk
Into two narrow doleful forms:
Creeping in reptile flesh upon
The bosom of the ground:
And all the vast of Nature shrunk
Before their shrunken eyes.
Thus the terrible race of Los & Enitharmon gave
Laws & Religions to the sons of Har binding them more
And more to Earth: closing and restraining:
Till a Philosophy of Five Senses was complete
Urizen wept & gave it into the hands of Newton & Locke
Clouds roll heavy upon the Alps round Rousseau & Voltaire:
And on the mountains of Lebanon round the deceased Gods
Of Asia; & on the deserts of Africa round the Fallen Angels
The Guardian Prince of Albion burns in his nightly tent
ASIA
The Kings of Asia heard
The howl rise up from Europe!
And each ran out from his Web;
From his ancient woven Den;
For the darkness of Asia was startled
At the thick-flaming, thought-creating fires of Orc.
And the Kings of Asia stood
And cried in bitterness of soul.
Shall not the King call for Famine from the heath?
Nor the Priest, for Pestilence from the fen?
To restrain! to dismay! to thin!
The inhabitants of mountain and plain;
In the day, of full-feeding prosperity;
And the night of delicious songs.
Shall not the Councellor throw his curb
Of Poverty on the laborious?
To fix the price of labour;
To invent allegoric riches:
And the privy admonishers of men
Call for fires in the City
For heaps of smoking ruins,
In the night of prosperity & wantonness
To turn man from his path,
To restrain the child from the womb,
To cut off the bread from the city,
That the remnant may learn to obey.
That the pride of the heart may fail;
That the lust of the eyes may be quench'd:
That the delicate ear in its infancy
May be dull'd; and the nostrils clos'd up;
To teach mortal worms the path
That leads from the gates of the Grave.
Urizen heard them cry!
And his shudd'ring waving wings
Went enormous above the red flames
Drawing clouds of despair thro' the heavens
Of Europe as he went:
And his Books of brass iron & gold
Melted over the land as he flew,
Heavy-waving, howling, weeping.
And he stood over Judea:
And stay'd in his ancient place:
And stretch'd his clouds over Jerusalem;
For Adam, a mouldering skeleton
Lay bleach'd on the garden of Eden;
And Noah as white as snow
On the mountains of Ararat.
Then the thunders of Urizen bellow'd aloud
From his woven darkness above.
Orc raging in European darkness
Arose like a pillar of fire above the Alps
Like a serpent of fiery flame!
The sullen Earth
Shrunk!
Forth from the dead dust rattling bones to bones
Join: shaking convuls'd the shivring clay breathes
And all flesh naked stands: Fathers and Friends;
Mothers & Infants; Kings & Warriors:
The Grave shrieks with delight, & shakes
Her hollow womb, & clasps the solid stem:
Her bosom swells with wild desire:
And milk & blood & glandous wine.
Out of the hills of Habersham,
Down the valleys of Hall,
I hurry amain to reach the plain,
Run the rapid and leap the fall,
Split at the rock and together again,
Accept my bed, or narrow or wide,
And flee from folly on every side
With a lover's pain to attain the plain
Far from the hills of Habersham,
Far from the valleys of Hall.
All down the hills of Habersham,
All through the valleys of Hall,
The rushes cried `Abide, abide,'
The willful waterweeds held me thrall,
The laving laurel turned my tide,
The ferns and the fondling grass said `Stay,'
The dewberry dipped for to work delay,
And the little reeds sighed `Abide, abide,
Here in the hills of Habersham,
Here in the valleys of Hall.'
High o'er the hills of Habersham,
Veiling the valleys of Hall,
The hickory told me manifold
Fair tales of shade, the poplar tall
Wrought me her shadowy self to hold,
The chestnut, the oak, the walnut, the pine,
Overleaning, with flickering meaning and sign,
Said, `Pass not, so cold, these manifold
Deep shades of the hills of Habersham,
These glades in the valleys of Hall.'
And oft in the hills of Habersham,
And oft in the valleys of Hall,
The white quartz shone, and the smooth brook-stone
Did bar me of passage with friendly brawl,
And many a luminous jewel lone
-- Crystals clear or a-cloud with mist,
Ruby, garnet and amethyst --
Made lures with the lights of streaming stone
In the clefts of the hills of Habersham,
In the beds of the valleys of Hall.
But oh, not the hills of Habersham,
And oh, not the valleys of Hall
Avail:  I am fain for to water the plain.
Downward the voices of Duty call --
Downward, to toil and be mixed with the main,
The dry fields burn, and the mills are to turn,
And a myriad flowers mortally yearn,
And the lordly main from beyond the plain
Calls o'er the hills of Habersham,
Calls through the valleys of Hall.
The Song of the Shirt
With fingers weary and worn,
With eyelids heavy and red,
A woman sat, in unwomanly rags,
Plying her needle and thread--
Stitch! stitch! stitch!
In poverty, hunger, and dirt,
And still with a voice of dolorous pitch
She sang the "Song of the Shirt."
"Work! work! work!
While the cock is crowing aloof!
And work — work — work,
Till the stars shine through the roof!
It's Oh! to be a slave
Along with the barbarous Turk,
Where woman has never a soul to save,
If this is Christian work!
"Work — work — work
Till the brain begins to swim;
Work — work — work
Till the eyes are heavy and dim!
Seam, and gusset, and band,
Band, and gusset, and seam,
Till over the buttons I fall asleep,
And sew them on in a dream!
"Oh, Men, with Sisters dear!
Oh, Men, with Mothers and Wives!
It is not linen you're wearing out,
But human creatures' lives!
Stitch — stitch — stitch,
In poverty, hunger, and dirt,
Sewing at once with a double thread,
A Shroud as well as a Shirt.
But why do I talk of Death?
That Phantom of grisly bone,
I hardly fear its terrible shape,
It seems so like my own —
It seems so like my own,
Because of the fasts I keep;
Oh, God! that bread should be so dear,
And flesh and blood so cheap!
"Work — work — work!
My Labour never flags;
And what are its wages? A bed of straw,
A crust of bread — and rags.
That shatter'd roof — and this naked floor —
A table — a broken chair —
And a wall so blank, my shadow I thank
For sometimes falling there!
"Work — work — work!
From weary chime to chime,
Work — work — work!
As prisoners work for crime!
Band, and gusset, and seam,
Seam, and gusset, and band,
Till the heart is sick, and the brain benumb'd,
As well as the weary hand.
"Work — work — work,
In the dull December light,
And work — work — work,
When the weather is warm and bright —
While underneath the eaves
The brooding swallows cling
As if to show me their sunny backs
And twit me with the spring.
Oh! but to breathe the breath
Of the cowslip and primrose sweet —
With the sky above my head,
And the grass beneath my feet
For only one short hour
To feel as I used to feel,
Before I knew the woes of want
And the walk that costs a meal!
Oh! but for one short hour!
A respite however brief!
No blessed leisure for Love or Hope,
But only time for Grief!
A little weeping would ease my heart,
But in their briny bed
My tears must stop, for every drop
Hinders needle and thread!"
With fingers weary and worn,
With eyelids heavy and red,
A woman sat in unwomanly rags,
Plying her needle and thread —
Stitch! stitch! stitch!
In poverty, hunger, and dirt,
And still with a voice of dolorous pitch, —
Would that its tone could reach the Rich! —
She sang this "Song of the Shirt!"
I WENT out to the hazel wood,
Because a fire was in my head,
And cut and peeled a hazel wand,
And hooked a berry to a thread;
And when white moths were on the wing,
And moth-like stars were flickering out,
I dropped the berry in a stream
And caught a little silver trout.
When I had laid it on the floor
I went to blow the fire aflame,
But something rustled on the floor,
And some one called me by my name:
It had become a glimmering girl
With apple blossom in her hair
Who called me by my name and ran
And faded through the brightening air.
Though I am old with wandering
Through hollow lands and hilly lands.
I will find out where she has gone,
And kiss her lips and take her hands;
And walk among long dappled grass,
And pluck till time and times are done
The silver apples of the moon,
The golden apples of the sun.
As I wandered the forest,
The green leaves among,
I heard a Wild Flower
Singing a song.
'I slept in the earth
In the silent night,
I murmured my fears
And I felt delight.
'In the morning I went
As rosy as morn,
To seek for new joy;
But oh! met with scorn.'
The browns, the olives, and the yellows died,
And were swept up to heaven; where they glowed
Each dawn and set of sun till Christmastide,
And when the land lay pale for them, pale-snowed,
Fell back, and down the snow-drifts flamed and flowed.
From off your face, into the winds of winter,
The sun-brown and the summer-gold are blowing;
But they shall gleam with spiritual glinter,
When paler beauty on your brows falls snowing,
And through those snows my looks shall be soft-going.
'She will change,' I cried.
'Into a withered crone.'
The heart in my side,
That so still had lain,
In noble rage replied
And beat upon the bone:
'Uplift those eyes and throw
Those glances unafraid:
She would as bravely show
Did all the fabric fade;
No withered crone I saw
Before the world was made.'
Abashed by that report,
For the heart cannot lie,
I knelt in the dirt.
And all shall bend the knee
To my offended heart
Until it pardon me.
If you look
upon Afghani's sorrow
Will you tell...
Does your heart
feel empathy...
Do tears  well
in your eyes...
The life of the Afghan
like open wounds
seeks healing
will kindness you extend
Oh Big Boss!
You the teacher
of brutal behavior
please step aside
for peace and prosperity.
_____
Poem In Pashto By:  Afzal Shauq
Translated in English By:  Alley Boling
Book:  'TWIST OF FATES'  Poem No.143/Page.192
Web Link: http: //khyberwatch.com/nandara/index.php?
option=com_content&task=view&id=378&Itemid=1
P DF files: http: //khyber.org/books/ashauq/index.shtml
Poet's weblog: www.tolafghan.com/members/afzalshauq
© Afzal Shauq
to lose you i know is one kind sorrow
for i claim a loss that i never had even once owned.
a play of words, and i know you do not understand
what each word means, what a punctuation is.
this heart that grieves for what it cannot even touch
with its fragile hands, its trembling fingers
for what i see is but a glimmer
a faint light, a shadow, a hush, a slight glimpse
no one knows what secret suffering is all about
(secret so to say, i give it a language of its own)
a heart that bleeds without drops of blood
a heart injured yet without the bruises and wound
i mix with the crowd just like what we do when we go malling.
i smile like the way all people smile. i always have a glimpse of you.
yet i know, i do not wait for anybody, or anything, this is simply
an impossible endeavor. Clouds that dissipate. Air that vanish.
a door that closes. a bus that leaves. a plane turning into a dot in space.
i look up actually for nothing. i  pretend sometimes that there are stars where there are none but black clouds and tree tops.
i look down and only see suffering. Pebbles and gray sands.
i sleep without remembering my dreams. i wake up not thinking
about what to do specifically with  my life. I have everything you say.
but since i do not have you, i am still nothing. I am simply arms emptied
of its embrace. I am hands groping with nothing but space.
it does not matter. i touch my chest and feel that i am strong.
i give up the gift of speech. I take in the gift of words written in utter silence.
Everyday I am alone in my sorrow
And everyday my sorrow is there
Heartbeat so strong,
Beating fast holding on.
Mothers tears falling down,
Slowly allowing time to fade round.
Guilty conscience its ok,
No time for sadness,
No time for blame.
Doctors that come bringing sadness and hope,
Reality sinks in dose by dose.
Gentle hand, beautiful smile.
Nothing like the love of ones child.
Anger at all that's happened and still,
Cannot change what must be gods will.
Families that circle and bring comfort to all.
Will share ones strength when the other must fall.
Stronger men have come and gone.
While women have wept and stood strong to carry on.
No matter the distance,
Or time and space,
Heartache will heal,
And the emptyness fade.
There was a sound amongst the hills,
echoing in the valley of wind,
a challenge was made.
dark birds flew over the grey sky
fire, smoke, cloud, dust
blinded the gods,
all hope was lost.
a man stepped up,
undaunted by the demons
drew his sword, with all its glory
marched on..
a lake so placid, in a forest so dark
god be with the soul who passes thee
for he do not know what lurks beneath,
riding into the forest,
the land of men seemed distant,
there was no turning back,
the fiery horse galloped away
an abyss of oblivion for
those who dwell among the trees.
life an eternity of sorrow.
there lay the enemy, cold;
with a force so tremendous that
he couldnt fight,
but home was far away.
the winding road, to the gates of hell
was gleaming in delight.
despair was in the air.
the sword was broken.
the gods wept that day,
for their loyal soldier had fallen.
tears irrigating the land,
for another son of the soil to rise.
Some say life is full of anguish,
old man once sang that life is full of pain
some even preach that life comes fully laced with misery and sorrow,
and some believe that life offers no retribution
ideas clearly instilled in the hearts and souls of many a man,
but the truth of the matter is,
life is anguish,
life is pain,
life is misery and sorrow,
in the same way as rain is water
and water is rain
for where can one get one`s own share of anguish,
who`d we ever have known pain if we never had life
without life, would we live through misery and sorrow
life in itself is retribution,
for he who has life can stand ground against
anguish, pain, misery and sorrow
and live to see brighter days seemingly unscathed
but woo to he who loses his life
in anguish, or pain, or misery , or sorrow
for he will receive no further retribution
and he will depart this earth with nothing but
anguish, pain, misery, sorrow
and retribution lost
While recently having a conversation with a friend, we discussed 'basking in sorrow, ' which by definition, is an oxymoron.. bask meaning to take great pleasure or satisfaction; and sorrow meaning loss or despair.
It is possible to bask in sorrow. While for one reason or another, sadness consumes you, at the same time you could be quite happy. For example; I am naturally a happy person. Therefor  while I may feel constant sadness about a certain situation,  I may still be basking; or somewhat happy. (smiling, laughing, having a good time)
Many people have a sadness inside them that is hidden, or  in the back of their mind at all times. These people are probably happy, can have fun, and seem to be in good cheer, while the sadness is still there, in their minds or hearts.
Therefor; we bask in sorrow.
Here we sit and bask in sorrow
Secretly begging for the morrow
A smile upon the outside face
Strength that shows as we run our race
Happiness is never too far away
Genuine cheer throughout the day
But a certain sadness wears us down
And being alone makes us frown
For this is what causes our heartache and grief
It hides under smiles, the sly little thief
So though we are basking in our sorrow today
We might soon find something to keep it at bay
A time for you and a time for me,
to be whatever, we choose to be;
to set our sights, to reach the peak,
to realize goals, we truly seek.
A time to dwell. on things long past,
a time to think, on things that last;
on family, friends and things that matter,
on things that endure and do not scattter.
A time to laugh and a time to weep,
a time for treasured things to keep;
a time for reflection on how we feel,
a time to mend and a time to heal.
A time to live and a time to die,
a time for joy and a time to cry;
a time to smile and a time for tears,
a time for God to calm our fears.
A time to despose of loved ones dead,
A time to get on with the day ahead;
To blot out death and face the 'morrow,
To clear the mind and bury sorrow.
The bare eyes of old houses crack with sorrow,
Because the sun will rise again tomorrow.
Of all who pass by there is no dissenter,
No mood exists upon  this street but winter.
A woman and a man walk by together,
Their shadows painted filigree on weather.
Gazing steadfastly upward beyond dying,
They memorize whatever birds are flying.
Tides came and washed away
the empitiness inside my vacant
heart, the waves came with a thrash
and washed all the remains only leaving
a lonley piece of driftwood, withered
and set alone to endure its helpless
future for someone's raging fire
Listening to the gulls, screeching in
harmony of knowing the tides were
very high with huge changes in store,
I walked along the beach that fatefull
day and wondered, which way to follow
As night set in, calmly now, the sea
once again was thrashing to and fro
and leaving behind the tity bed of
new sand with the moon casting its
lonely shadow, it told me then, the
sand is new, and now is the time
for a new start in my life leaving behind
the battered hinges on the door to my
forsaken heart, but letting the oppourtunity
to replace its barren walls of sorrow......
Tears that are in my eyes
are not-Sorrow of barren Land
Where life barely exists
And sound of rain is lost in ocean of sand
Where life pass, years! Seeking the skies
Waiting for watery drop
Even like a tear that dropp from my eye
Its not a sorrow of a princess
Whose love is apart
Her affection grows everyday
But she cannot express her heart
Its not agony of a woman
Whose man is on way to disaster
Nor pain of mother
Whose son made devil his master
Its not wail of a child
Whose dreams are broken like stars
Nor pain of those
Whose friends are dying in wars
Its nota lament after tempest
Nor the cry after death
Tear in my eyes
Is due to my inner sorrow
For the world I live in is crying dying
And am I not to grieve over something which is mine?
(P.S.written when I was in 8th std…. I copied and pasted the whole poem as it is…)
Today i celebrate my sorrow
Though its  heck of a pain in my heart
But in the land of the dead
With heartless torso and fake souls
I celebrate my pain......
cuz lucky i am
To still feel........
Speedy to the plunder,
Swift to the spoil;
The lion will eat straw like the ox.
A tumultuous noise,
The bricks have fallen  down;
Light and joy,
Darkness and sorrow,
The wolf will dwell with the lamb;
To the brook of the willows like,
The Sycamore Tree that are cut down.
Love is as strong as death,
Jealousy is as cruel as the grave;
Listen to my muse oh Earth!
As white as snow,
To shave with a hired razor;
As slow as the tortoise,
The leopard will lie down with the goat;
In a barren night like a stillborn child where,
The teeth of the young lions are broken;
Darkness and sorrow,
Love is as strong as death itself.
A day of sorrow,
a day of pain,
Not knowing who's to blame?
Towers standing tall and true,
Destroyed by people with something to prove.
Millions cried and millions prayed,
To save one life the heroes slaved.
Clearing the rubble and mounds of debris,
With tears in their eyes, they worked fearlessly.
Stranges wept for the many and few,
Hoping God will pull them throught.
I walk throught the valley of the shadow of death;
The last words spoken before we laid them to rest.
I cry with people I do not know,
To see their pain it hurts me so.
Maybe one day our pain will end,
With love and support from family and friends.
Teardrops fall down my face.
The mistakes I cant replace.
The days I forgot,
The memories I lost.
And all because I was killed inside.
Poisoned by youre secrets like cyanide.
I lost myself forgot my friends.
Headed towards the dark end.
And I try but the harder I try,
the more I fail the more I lie.
And I have to beilive than I can go on.
Even when everything has turned out wrong.
I have to keep going in the hopes of tommorow.
Waiting for the day without any sorrow.
Oh  Solitude!
Ah grief!
Thou twin tormentors
That   keep so close
To the heart
Even the marrow of the bone!
I wish thee farewell
And that thou wouldest flee, to the
Farthest  regions of Hades,
And stay far away
And not come near
To hold me dread
in  thy grasp  so  strong;
So that I  can be free
To  love and to live again!
yet I do remember the hoary stance of night
rolling spumes away into onshore
to heap of sands yet not unknown
history yet records reels of fire.
where are those tiding whelms from hide
speckles ocean pierce into air unfailing
whispering dew of roses basking in glow
moon seemingly snored in valley of obscurity
mystery may uncover the flings of sorrow
night when chilled being chiseled of snow
do we ever know the eternity by reality?
rainbow is ephemeral by voyage to void
My dear friend, but for clouds in your eyes;
The sun failed to rise. But rise it did today,
Just as it always has and always will.
The sunshine and light you seek is not to be found
Even on the fairest of days, but rather it can be found
In the heart, where your Joy has retreated for protection
For a safe haven given its constant overexposure.
You give joy with every kind act you perform, and
With every smile you so freely provide to all,
Yet the one thing you are missing in your life
Is a true love of your very own. You search for this love
In the morning sun, when perhaps the lover you seek
Can be found standing in an evening rain,
His eyes beaming with the love he brings…
T.S.2009 ©
When sunsets for night sorrow drifts in, whispering through the trees.
Her gown flutters through the air  as she glides over me.
Setting quietness throughout the land,
In a dangerious whisper that gave me shivers.
The despair settled over me, as her calming deadly wrath,
Wrapped me in a blanket of sadness.
skin seems roasted by scorching rays
sky is burning by heat of summer
sultry weather remembers autumn’s flow
anger never reels through by fear of love.
softness mellows by sweet feeling
where is smile latching on to hide?
oh emotion be cup of anger retreating
silence even tells grip of sorrow
night still resilient by tear as dew
heart loses its rhythm riling upon wisdom
abstruse stillness redeems from apprehension
as truth of reason always insist upon realty.
Sorrow redounds deep in darkness in furrow
Humor blurs in dearth of rippling smiles
Sadness rides over the glow ingenious
Do you ever measure the distance of love?
I
A traveller on the skirt of Sarum's Plain
Pursued his vagrant way, with feet half bare;
Stooping his gait, but not as if to gain
Help from the staff he bore; for mien and air
Were hardy, though his cheek seemed worn with care
Both of the time to come, and time long fled:
Down fell in straggling locks his thin grey hair;
A coat he wore of military red
But faded, and stuck o'er with many a patch and shred.
II
While thus he journeyed, step by step led on,
He saw and passed a stately inn, full sure
That welcome in such house for him was none.
No board inscribed the needy to allure
Hung there, no bush proclaimed to old and poor
And desolate, "Here you will find a friend!"
The pendent grapes glittered above the door;--
On he must pace, perchance 'till night descend,
Where'er the dreary roads their bare white lines extend.
III
The gathering clouds grow red with stormy fire,
In streaks diverging wide and mounting high;
That inn he long had passed; the distant spire,
Which oft as he looked back had fixed his eye,
Was lost, though still he looked, in the blank sky.
Perplexed and comfortless he gazed around,
And scarce could any trace of man descry,
Save cornfields stretched and stretching without bound;
But where the sower dwelt was nowhere to be found.
IV
No tree was there, no meadow's pleasant green,
No brook to wet his lip or soothe his ear;
Long files of corn-stacks here and there were seen,
But not one dwelling-place his heart to cheer.
Some labourer, thought he, may perchance be near;
And so he sent a feeble shout--in vain;
No voice made answer, he could only hear
Winds rustling over plots of unripe grain,
Or whistling thro' thin grass along the unfurrowed plain.
V
Long had he fancied each successive slope
Concealed some cottage, whither he might turn
And rest; but now along heaven's darkening cope
The crows rushed by in eddies, homeward borne.
Thus warned he sought some shepherd's spreading thorn
Or hovel from the storm to shield his head,
But sought in vain; for now, all wild, forlorn,
And vacant, a huge waste around him spread;
The wet cold ground, he feared, must be his only bed.
VI
And be it so--for to the chill night shower
And the sharp wind his head he oft hath bared;
A Sailor he, who many a wretched hour
Hath told; for, landing after labour hard,
Full long endured in hope of just reward,
He to an armed fleet was forced away
By seamen, who perhaps themselves had shared
Like fate; was hurried off, a helpless prey,
'Gainst all that in 'his' heart, or theirs perhaps, said nay.
VII
For years the work of carnage did not cease,
And death's dire aspect daily he surveyed,
Death's minister; then came his glad release,
And hope returned, and pleasure fondly made
Her dwelling in his dreams. By Fancy's aid
The happy husband flies, his arms to throw
Round his wife's neck; the prize of victory laid
In her full lap, he sees such sweet tears flow
As if thenceforth nor pain nor trouble she could know.
VIII
Vain hope! for frand took all that he had earned.
The lion roars and gluts his tawny brood
Even in the desert's heart; but he, returned,
Bears not to those he loves their needful food.
His home approaching, but in such a mood
That from his sight his children might have run.
He met a traveller, robbed him, shed his blood;
And when the miserable work was done
He fled, a vagrant since, the murderer's fate to shun.
IX
From that day forth no place to him could be
So lonely, but that thence might come a pang
Brought from without to inward misery.
Now, as he plodded on, with sullen clang
A sound of chains along the desert rang;
He looked, and saw upon a gibbet high
A human body that in irons swang,
Uplifted by the tempest whirling by;
And, hovering, round it often did a raven fly.
X
It was a spectacle which none might view,
In spot so savage, but with shuddering pain;
Nor only did for him at once renew
All he had feared from man, but roused a train
Of the mind's phantoms, horrible as vain.
The stones, as if to cover him from day,
Rolled at his back along the living plain;
He fell, and without sense or motion lay;
But, when the trance was gone, feebly pursued his way.
XI
As one whose brain habitual phrensy fires
Owes to the fit in which his soul hath tossed
Profounder quiet, when the fit retires,
Even so the dire phantasma which had crossed
His sense, in sudden vacancy quite lost,
Left his mind still as a deep evening stream.
Nor, if accosted now, in thought engrossed,
Moody, or inly troubled, would he seem
To traveller who might talk of any casual theme.
XII
Hurtle the clouds in deeper darkness piled,
Gone is the raven timely rest to seek;
He seemed the only creature in the wild
On whom the elements their rage might wreak;
Save that the bustard, of those regions bleak
Shy tenant, seeing by the uncertain light
A man there wandering, gave a mournful shriek,
And half upon the ground, with strange affright,
Forced hard against the wind a thick unwieldy flight.
XIII
All, all was cheerless to the horizon's bound;
The weary eye--which, wheresoe'er it strays,
Marks nothing but the red sun's setting round,
Or on the earth strange lines, in former days
Left by gigantic arms--at length surveys
What seems an antique castle spreading wide;
Hoary and naked are its walls, and raise
Their brow sublime: in shelter there to bide
He turned, while rain poured down smoking on every side.
XIV
Pile of Stone-henge! so proud to hint yet keep
Thy secrets, thou that lov'st to stand and hear
The Plain resounding to the whirlwind's sweep,
Inmate of lonesome Nature's endless year;
Even if thou saw'st the giant wicker rear
For sacrifice its throngs of living men,
Before thy face did ever wretch appear,
Who in his heart had groaned with deadlier pain
Than he who, tempest-driven, thy shelter now would gain.
XV
Within that fabric of mysterious form,
Winds met in conflict, each by turns supreme;
And, from the perilous ground dislodged, through storm
And rain he wildered on, no moon to stream
From gulf of parting clouds one friendly beam,
Nor any friendly sound his footsteps led;
Once did the lightning's faint disastrous gleam
Disclose a naked guide-post's double head,
Sight which tho' lost at once a gleam of pleasure shed.
XVI
No swinging sign-board creaked from cottage elm
To stay his steps with faintness overcome;
'Twas dark and void as ocean's watery realm
Roaring with storms beneath night's starless gloom;
No gipsy cowered o'er fire of furze or broom;
No labourer watched his red kiln glaring bright,
Nor taper glimmered dim from sick man's room;
Along the waste no line of mournful light
From lamp of lonely toll-gate streamed athwart the night.
XVII
At length, though hid in clouds, the moon arose;
The downs were visible--and now revealed
A structure stands, which two bare slopes enclose.
It was a spot, where, ancient vows fulfilled,
Kind pious hands did to the Virgin build
A lonely Spital, the belated swain
From the night terrors of that waste to shield:
But there no human being could remain,
And now the walls are named the "Dead House" of the plain.
XVIII
Though he had little cause to love the abode
Of man, or covet sight of mortal face,
Yet when faint beams of light that ruin showed,
How glad he was at length to find some trace
Of human shelter in that dreary place.
Till to his flock the early shepherd goes,
Here shall much-needed sleep his frame embrace.
In a dry nook where fern the floor bestrows
He lays his stiffened limbs,--his eyes begin to close;
XIX
When hearing a deep sigh, that seemed to come
From one who mourned in sleep, he raised his head,
And saw a woman in the naked room
Outstretched, and turning on a restless bed:
The moon a wan dead light around her shed.
He waked her--spake in tone that would not fail,
He hoped, to calm her mind; but ill he sped,
For of that ruin she had heard a tale
Which now with freezing thoughts did all her powers assail;
XX
Had heard of one who, forced from storms to shroud,
Felt the loose walls of this decayed Retreat
Rock to incessant neighings shrill and loud,
While his horse pawed the floor with furious heat;
Till on a stone, that sparkled to his feet,
Struck, and still struck again, the troubled horse:
The man half raised the stone with pain and sweat,
Half raised, for well his arm might lose its force
Disclosing the grim head of a late murdered corse.
XXI
Such tale of this lone mansion she had learned
And, when that shape, with eyes in sleep half drowned,
By the moon's sullen lamp she first discerned,
Cold stony horror all her senses bound.
Her he addressed in words of cheering sound;
Recovering heart, like answer did she make;
And well it was that, of the corse there found,
In converse that ensued she nothing spake;
She knew not what dire pangs in him such tale could wake.
XXII
But soon his voice and words of kind intent
Banished that dismal thought; and now the wind
In fainter howlings told its 'rage' was spent:
Meanwhile discourse ensued of various kind,
Which by degrees a confidence of mind
And mutual interest failed not to create.
And, to a natural sympathy resigned,
In that forsaken building where they sate
The Woman thus retraced her own untoward fate.
XXIII
"By Derwent's side my father dwelt--a man
Of virtuous life, by pious parents bred;
And I believe that, soon as I began
To lisp, he made me kneel beside my bed,
And in his hearing there my prayers I said:
And afterwards, by my good father taught,
I read, and loved the books in which I read;
For books in every neighbouring house I sought,
And nothing to my mind a sweeter pleasure brought.
XXIV
"A little croft we owned--a plot of corn,
A garden stored with peas, and mint, and thyme,
And flowers for posies, oft on Sunday morn
Plucked while the church bells rang their earliest chime.
Can I forget our freaks at shearing time!
My hen's rich nest through long grass scarce espied;
The cowslip-gathering in June's dewy prime;
The swans that with white chests upreared in pride
Rushing and racing came to meet me at the water-side.
XXV
"The staff I well remember which upbore
The bending body of my active sire;
His seat beneath the honied sycamore
Where the bees hummed, and chair by winter fire;
When market-morning came, the neat attire
With which, though bent on haste, myself I decked;
Our watchful house-dog, that would tease and tire
The stranger till its barking-fit I checked;
The red-breast, known for years, which at my casement pecked.
XXVI
"The suns of twenty summers danced along,--
Too little marked how fast they rolled away:
But, through severe mischance and cruel wrong,
My father's substance fell into decay:
We toiled and struggled, hoping for a day
When Fortune might put on a kinder look;
But vain were wishes, efforts vain as they;
He from his old hereditary nook
Must part; the summons came;--our final leave we took.
XXVII
"It was indeed a miserable hour
When, from the last hill-top, my sire surveyed,
Peering above the trees, the steeple tower
That on his marriage day sweet music made!
Tilt then, he hoped his bones might there be laid
Close by my mother in their native bowers:
Bidding me trust in God, he stood and prayed;--
I could not pray:--through tears that fell in showers
Glimmered our dear-loved home, alas! no longer ours!
XXVIII
"There was a Youth whom I had loved so long,
That when I loved him not I cannot say:
'Mid the green mountains many a thoughtless song
We two had sung, like gladsome birds in May;
When we began to tire of childish play,
We seemed still more and more to prize each other;
We talked of marriage and our marriage day;
And I in truth did love him like a brother,
For never could I hope to meet with such another.
XXIX
"Two years were passed since to a distant town
He had repaired to ply a gainful trade:
What tears of bitter grief, till then unknown!
What tender vows, our last sad kiss delayed!
To him we turned:--we had no other aid:
Like one revived, upon his neck I wept;
And her whom he had loved in joy, he said,
He well could love in grief; his faith he kept;
And in a quiet home once more my father slept.
XXX
"We lived in peace and comfort; and were blest
With daily bread, by constant toil supplied.
Three lovely babes had lain upon my breast;
And often, viewing their sweet smiles, I sighed,
And knew not why. My happy father died,
When threatened war reduced the children's meal:
Thrice happy! that for him the grave could hide
The empty loom, cold hearth, and silent wheel,
And tears that flowed for ills which patience might not heal.
XXXI
"'Twas a hard change; an evil time was come;
We had no hope, and no relief could gain:
But soon, with proud parade, the noisy drum
Beat round to clear the streets of want and pain.
My husband's arms now only served to strain
Me and his children hungering in his view;
In such dismay my prayers and tears were vain:
To join those miserable men he flew,
And now to the sea-coast, with numbers more, we drew.
XXXII
"There were we long neglected, and we bore
Much sorrow ere the fleet its anchor weighed;
Green fields before us, and our native shore,
We breathed a pestilential air, that made
Ravage for which no knell was heard. We prayed
For our departure; wished and wished--nor knew,
'Mid that long sickness and those hopes delayed,
That happier days we never more must view.
The parting signal streamed--at last the land withdrew.
XXXIII
"But the calm summer season now was past.
On as we drove, the equinoctial deep
Ran mountains high before the howling blast,
And many perished in the whirlwind's sweep.
We gazed with terror on their gloomy sleep,
Untaught that soon such anguish must ensue,
Our hopes such harvest of affliction reap,
That we the mercy of the waves should rue:
We reached the western world, a poor devoted crew.
XXXIV
"The pains and plagues that on our heads came down,
Disease and famine, agony and fear,
In wood or wilderness, in camp or town,
It would unman the firmest heart to hear.
All perished--all in one remorseless year,
Husband and children! one by one, by sword
And ravenous plague, all perished: every tear
Dried up, despairing, desolate, on board
A British ship I waked, as from a trance restored."
XXXV
Here paused she of all present thought forlorn,
Nor voice nor sound, that moment's pain expressed,
Yet Nature, with excess of grief o'erborne,
From her full eyes their watery load released.
He too was mute; and, ere her weeping ceased,
He rose, and to the ruin's portal went,
And saw the dawn opening the silvery east
With rays of promise, north and southward sent;
And soon with crimson fire kindled the firmament.
XXXVI
"O come," he cried, "come, after weary night
Of such rough storm, this happy change to view."
So forth she came, and eastward looked; the sight
Over her brow like dawn of gladness threw;
Upon her cheek, to which its youthful hue
Seemed to return, dried the last lingering tear,
And from her grateful heart a fresh one drew:
The whilst her comrade to her pensive cheer
Tempered fit words of hope; and the lark warbled near.
XXXVII
They looked and saw a lengthening road, and wain
That rang down a bare slope not far remote:
The barrows glistered bright with drops of rain,
Whistled the waggoner with merry note,
The cock far off sounded his clarion throat;
But town, or farm, or hamlet, none they viewed,
Only were told there stood a lonely cot
A long mile thence. While thither they pursued
Their way, the Woman thus her mournful tale renewed.
XXXVIII
"Peaceful as this immeasurable plain
Is now, by beams of dawning light imprest,
In the calm sunshine slept the glittering main;
The very ocean hath its hour of rest.
I too forgot the heavings of my breast.
How quiet 'round me ship and ocean were!
As quiet all within me. I was blest,
And looked, and fed upon the silent air
Until it seemed to bring a joy to my despair.
XXXIX
"Ah! how unlike those late terrific sleeps,
And groans that rage of racking famine spoke;
The unburied dead that lay in festering heaps,
The breathing pestilence that rose like smoke,
The shriek that from the distant battle broke,
The mine's dire earthquake, and the pallid host
Driven by the bomb's incessant thunderstroke
To loathsome vaults, where heart-sick anguish tossed,
Hope died, and fear itself in agony was lost!
XL
"Some mighty gulf of separation past,
I seemed transported to another world;
A thought resigned with pain, when from the mast
The impatient mariner the sail unfurled,
And, whistling, called the wind that hardly curled
The silent sea. From the sweet thoughts of home
And from all hope I was for ever hurled.
For me--farthest from earthly port to roam
Was best, could I but shun the spot where man might come.
XLI
"And oft I thought (my fancy was so strong)
That I, at last, a resting-place had found;
'Here will I dwell,' said I, 'my whole life long,
Roaming the illimitable waters round;
Here will I live, of all but heaven disowned,
And end my days upon the peaceful flood.'--
To break my dream the vessel reached its bound;
And homeless near a thousand homes I stood,
And near a thousand tables pined and wanted food.
XLII
"No help I sought; in sorrow turned adrift,
Was hopeless, as if cast on some bare rock;
Nor morsel to my mouth that day did lift,
Nor raised my hand at any door to knock.
I lay where, with his drowsy mates, the cock
From the cross-timber of an out-house hung:
Dismally tolled, that night, the city clock!
At morn my sick heart hunger scarcely stung,
Nor to the beggar's language could I fit my tongue.
XLIII
"So passed a second day; and, when the third
Was come, I tried in vain the crowd's resort.
--In deep despair, by frightful wishes stirred,
Near the sea-side I reached a ruined fort;
There, pains which nature could no more support,
With blindness linked, did on my vitals fall;
And, after many interruptions short
Of hideous sense, I sank, nor step could crawl:
Unsought for was the help that did my life recall.
XLIV
"Borne to a hospital, I lay with brain
Drowsy and weak, and shattered memory;
I heard my neighbours in their beds complain
Of many things which never troubled me--
Of feet still bustling round with busy glee,
Of looks where common kindness had no part,
Of service done with cold formality,
Fretting the fever round the languid heart,
And groans which, as they said, might make a dead man start.
XLV
"These things just served to stir the slumbering sense,
Nor pain nor pity in my bosom raised.
With strength did memory return; and, thence
Dismissed, again on open day I gazed,
At houses, men, and common light, amazed.
The lanes I sought, and, as the sun retired,
Came where beneath the trees a faggot blazed,
The travellers saw me weep, my fate inquired,
And gave me food--and rest, more welcome, more desired.
XLVI
"Rough potters seemed they, trading soberly
With panniered asses driven from door to door;
But life of happier sort set forth to me,
And other joys my fancy to allure--
The bag-pipe dinning on the midnight moor
In barn uplighted; and companions boon,
Well met from far with revelry secure
Among the forest glades, while jocund June
Rolled fast along the sky his warm and genial moon.
XLVII
"But ill they suited me--those journeys dark
O'er moor and mountain, midnight theft to hatch!
To charm the surly house-dog's faithful bark,
Or hang on tip-toe at the lifted latch.
The gloomy lantern, and the dim blue match,
The black disguise, the warning whistle shrill,
And ear still busy on its nightly watch,
Were not for me, brought up in nothing ill:
Besides, on griefs so fresh my thoughts were brooding still.
XLVIII
"What could I do, unaided and unblest?
My father! gone was every friend of thine:
And kindred of dead husband are at best
Small help; and, after marriage such as mine,
With little kindness would to me incline.
Nor was I then for toil or service fit;
My deep-drawn sighs no effort could confine;
In open air forgetful would I sit
Whole hours, with idle arms in moping sorrow knit.
XLIX
"The roads I paced, I loitered through the fields;
Contentedly, yet sometimes self-accused.
Trusted my life to what chance bounty yields,
Now coldly given, now utterly refused.
The ground I for my bed have often used:
But what afflicts my peace with keenest ruth,
Is that I have my inner self abused,
Foregone the home delight of constant truth,
And clear and open soul, so prized in fearless youth.
L
"Through tears the rising sun I oft have viewed,
Through tears have seen him towards that world descend
Where my poor heart lost all its fortitude:
Three years a wanderer now my course I bend--
Oh! tell me whither--for no earthly friend
Have I."--She ceased, and weeping turned away;
As if because her tale was at an end,
She wept; because she had no more to say
Of that perpetual weight which on her spirit lay.
LI
True sympathy the Sailor's looks expressed,
His looks--for pondering he was mute the while.
Of social Order's care for wretchedness,
Of Time's sure help to calm and reconcile,
Joy's second spring and Hope's long-treasured smile,
'Twas not for 'him' to speak--a man so tried,
Yet, to relieve her heart, in friendly style
Proverbial words of comfort he applied,
And not in vain, while they went pacing side by side.
LII
Ere long, from heaps of turf, before their sight,
Together smoking in the sun's slant beam,
Rise various wreaths that into one unite
Which high and higher mounts with silver gleam:
Fair spectacle,---but instantly a scream
Thence bursting shrill did all remark prevent;
They paused, and heard a hoarser voice blaspheme,
And female cries. Their course they thither bent,
And met a man who foamed with anger vehement,
LIII
A woman stood with quivering lips and pale,
And, pointing to a little child that lay
Stretched on the ground, began a piteous tale;
How in a simple freak of thoughtless play
He had provoked his father, who straightway,
As if each blow were deadlier than the last,
Struck the poor innocent. Pallid with dismay
The Soldier's Widow heard and stood aghast;
And stern looks on the man her grey-haired Comrade cast.
LIV
His voice with indignation rising high
Such further deed in manhood's name forbade;
The peasant, wild in passion, made reply
With bitter insult and revilings sad;
Asked him in scorn what business there he had;
What kind of plunder he was hunting now;
The gallows would one day of him be glad;--
Though inward anguish damped the Sailor's brow,
Yet calm he seemed as thoughts so poignant would allow.
LV
Softly he stroked the child, who lay outstretched
With face to earth; and, as the boy turned round
His battered head, a groan the Sailor fetched
As if he saw--there and upon that ground--
Strange repetition of the deadly wound
He had himself inflicted. Through his brain
At once the griding iron passage found;
Deluge of tender thoughts then rushed amain,
Nor could his sunken eyes the starting tear restrain.
LVI
Within himself he said--What hearts have we!
The blessing this a father gives his child!
Yet happy thou, poor boy! compared with me,
Suffering not doing ill--fate far more mild.
The stranger's looks and tears of wrath beguiled
The father, and relenting thoughts awoke;
He kissed his son--so all was reconciled.
Then, with a voice which inward trouble broke
Ere to his lips it came, the Sailor them bespoke.
LVII
"Bad is the world, and hard is the world's law
Even for the man who wears the warmest fleece;
Much need have ye that time more closely draw
The bond of nature, all unkindness cease,
And that among so few there still be peace:
Else can ye hope but with such numerous foes
Your pains shall ever with your years increase?"--
While from his heart the appropriate lesson flows,
A correspondent calm stole gently o'er his woes.
LVIII
Forthwith the pair passed on; and down they look
Into a narrow valley's pleasant scene
Where wreaths of vapour tracked a winding brook,
That babbled on through groves and meadows green;
A low-roofed house peeped out the trees between;
The dripping groves resound with cheerful lays,
And melancholy lowings intervene
Of scattered herds, that in the meadow graze,
Some amid lingering shade, some touched by the sun's rays.
LIX
They saw and heard, and, winding with the road,
Down a thick wood, they dropt into the vale;
Comfort, by prouder mansions unbestowed,
Their wearied frames, she hoped, would soon regale.
Erelong they reached that cottage in the dale:
It was a rustic inn;--the board was spread,
The milk-maid followed with her brimming pail,
And lustily the master carved the bread,
Kindly the housewife pressed, and they in comfort fed.
LX
Their breakfast done, the pair, though loth, must part;
Wanderers whose course no longer now agrees.
She rose and bade farewell! and, while her heart
Struggled with tears nor could its sorrow ease,
She left him there; for, clustering round his knees,
With his oak-staff the cottage children played;
And soon she reached a spot o'erhung with trees
And banks of ragged earth; beneath the shade
Across the pebbly road a little runnel strayed.
LXI
A cart and horse beside the rivulet stood;
Chequering the canvas roof the sunbeams shone.
She saw the carman bend to scoop the flood
As the wain fronted her,--wherein lay one,
A pale-faced Woman, in disease far gone.
The carman wet her lips as well behoved;
Bed under her lean body there was none,
Though even to die near one she most had loved
She could not of herself those wasted limbs have moved.
LXII
The Soldier's Widow learned with honest pain
And homefelt force of sympathy sincere,
Why thus that worn-out wretch must there sustain
The jolting road and morning air severe.
The wain pursued its way; and following near
In pure compassion she her steps retraced
Far as the cottage. "A sad sight is here,"
She cried aloud; and forth ran out in haste
The friends whom she had left but a few minutes past.
LXIII
While to the door with eager speed they ran,
From her bare straw the Woman half upraised
Her bony visage--gaunt and deadly wan;
No pity asking, on the group she gazed
With a dim eye, distracted and amazed;
Then sank upon her straw with feeble moan.
Fervently cried the housewife--"God be praised,
I have a house that I can call my own;
Nor shall she perish there, untended and alone!"
LXIV
So in they bear her to the chimney seat,
And busily, though yet with fear, untie
Her garments, and, to warm her icy feet
And chafe her temples, careful hands apply.
Nature reviving, with a deep-drawn sigh
She strove, and not in vain, her head to rear;
Then said--"I thank you all; if I must die,
The God in heaven my prayers for you will hear;
Till now I did not think my end had been so near.
LXV
"Barred every comfort labour could procure,
Suffering what no endurance could assuage,
I was compelled to seek my father's door,
Though loth to be a burthen on his age.
But sickness stopped me in an early stage
Of my sad journey; and within the wain
They placed me--there to end life's pilgrimage,
Unless beneath your roof I may remain;
For I shall never see my father's door again.
LXVI
"My life, Heaven knows, hath long been burthensome;
But, if I have not meekly suffered, meek
May my end be! Soon will this voice be dumb:
Should child of mine e'er wander hither, speak
Of me, say that the worm is on my cheek.--
Torn from our hut, that stood beside the sea
Near Portland lighthouse in a lonesome creek,
My husband served in sad captivity
On shipboard, bound till peace or death should set him free.
LXVII
"A sailor's wife I knew a widow's cares,
Yet two sweet little ones partook my bed;
Hope cheered my dreams, and to my daily prayers
Our heavenly Father granted each day's bread;
Till one was found by stroke of violence dead,
Whose body near our cottage chanced to lie;
A dire suspicion drove us from our shed;
In vain to find a friendly face we try,
Nor could we live together those poor boys and I;
LXVIII
"For evil tongues made oath how on that day
My husband lurked about the neighbourhood;
Now he had fled, and whither none could say,
And 'he' had done the deed in the dark wood--
Near his own home!--but he was mild and good;
Never on earth was gentler creature seen;
He'd not have robbed the raven of its food.
My husband's lovingkindness stood between
Me and all worldly harms and wrongs however keen."
LXIX
Alas! the thing she told with labouring breath
The Sailor knew too well. That wickedness
His hand had wrought; and when, in the hour of death,
He saw his Wife's lips move his name to bless
With her last words, unable to suppress
His anguish, with his heart he ceased to strive;
And, weeping loud in this extreme distress,
He cried--"Do pity me! That thou shouldst live
I neither ask nor wish--forgive me, but forgive!"
LXX
To tell the change that Voice within her wrought
Nature by sign or sound made no essay;
A sudden joy surprised expiring thought,
And every mortal pang dissolved away.
Borne gently to a bed, in death she lay;
Yet still while over her the husband bent,
A look was in her face which seemed to say,
"Be blest; by sight of thee from heaven was sent
Peace to my parting soul, the fulness of content."
LXXI
'She' slept in peace,--his pulses throbbed and stopped,
Breathless he gazed upon her face,--then took
Her hand in his, and raised it, but both dropped,
When on his own he cast a rueful look.
His ears were never silent; sleep forsook
His burning eyelids stretched and stiff as lead;
All night from time to time under him shook
The floor as he lay shuddering on his bed;
And oft he groaned aloud, "O God, that I were dead!"
LXXII
The Soldier's Widow lingered in the cot,
And, when he rose, he thanked her pious care
Through which his Wife, to that kind shelter brought,
Died in his arms; and with those thanks a prayer
He breathed for her, and for that merciful pair.
The corse interred, not one hour heremained
Beneath their roof, but to the open air
A burthen, now with fortitude sustained,
He bore within a breast where dreadful quiet reigned.
LXXIII
Confirmed of purpose, fearlessly prepared
For act and suffering, to the city straight
He journeyed, and forthwith his crime declared:
"And from your doom," he added, "now I wait,
Nor let it linger long, the murderer's fate."
Not ineffectual was that piteous claim:
"O welcome sentence which will end though late,"
He said, "the pangs that to my conscience came
Out of that deed. My trust, Saviour! is in thy name!"
LXXIV
His fate was pitied. Him in iron case
(Reader, forgive the intolerable thought)
They hung not:--no one on 'his' form or face
Could gaze, as on a show by idlers sought;
No kindred sufferer, to his death-place brought
By lawless curiosity or chance,
When into storm the evening sky is wrought,
Upon his swinging corse an eye can glance,
And drop, as he once dropped, in miserable trance.
Has sorrow thy young days shaded,
As clouds o'er the morning fleet?
Too fast have those young days faded
That, even in sorrow, were sweet?
Does Time with his cold wing wither
Each feeling that once was dear? --
Then, child of misfortune, come hither,
I'll weep with thee, tear for tear.
Has love to that soul, so tender,
Been like our Lagenian mine,
Where sparkles of golden splendour
All over the surface shine --
But, if in pursuit we go deeper,
Allured by the gleam that shone,
Ah! false as the dream of the sleeper,
Like Love, the bright ore is gone.
Has Hope, like the bird in the story,
That flitted from tree to tree
With the talisman's glittering glory --
Has Hope been that bird to thee?
On branch after branch alighting,
The gem did she still display,
And, when nearest, and most inviting,
Then waft the fair gem away?
If thus the young hours have fleeted,
When sorrow itself look'd bright;
If thus the fair hope hath cheated,
That led thee along so light;
If thus the cold world now wither
Each feeling that once was dear --
Come, child of misfortune, come hither,
I'll weep with thee, tear for tear.
In the moon-fade and the sun’s puppy breath,
in the crow’s plummeting cry,
in my broken foot and arthritic joints,
memory calls me
to the earth’s opening, the graves dug, again, and again
I, always I am left
to turn away
into a bat’s wing-brush of air.
That never changes . . .
not this morning, not here
where I’ve just found
in the back of my truck, under the rubber mat,
in a teacup’s worth of dirt,
where it seems no seed could possibly be
a corn kernel split to pale leaves and string-roots.
It’s a strange leap but I make it
and bend to these small harvests
because somewhere in North Carolina there was a house
and in it, my room and my bed,
bare boards and the blood stains of a man
that in each slant rain’s worried whispers puddles to the cries of a slave,
murdered in 1863 trying to escape.
Somewhere there was a child who slept
on the living room’s red-vinyl couch
who still matters
especially now that I can’t remember when the creek
that bounded our family farm led to an ocean
or when a boxcar’s weather-wasted letters spelling Illinois
meant somewhere there was an Illinois.
It’s still 1976--
the day after I’ve been seen playing tennis
with a black boy, and it seems I will always
be held at gunpoint and beaten
as if the right punch would chunk out his name.
--------
No, it’s 1969--
The year my mother becomes a wax paste,
or so she looks to the child I was,
and she drips into the pink satin
and I learned the funereal smell of carnations.
That year the moon was still made of green cheese.
That year men first bagged and labeled that moon.
There are no years, only the past
and I still don’t know why Odell Horne
pulled a shotgun on my brother
or how the body contains so much blood.
I still don’t know why Donna Hill went to Myrtle Beach
and three days later came back dead.
For ten years I lived with Louise Stegall,
the lover of my father, one of her four men, all buried--
suicide, murder, drink, again murder.
It was after the second one that she sat stock still
and silent, four years in the asylum.
Now she walks the road all day,
picking up Cracker Jack trinkets
to give to children
brave enough to approach her.
When I was nine, the starling pecked outside her windowa whole week.
Somebody’s gonna die, she said
and made me hug Uncle Robert’s neck
as if I couldn’t know he’d be gone in two hours,
as if I hadn’t learned anything about people
and their vanishing.
The last time I saw her she wouldn’t look at me,
jerked her sweatshirt’s hood across
her face and stepped into the ditch,
as though there are some things even she won’t tell,
as though I’ve never known it’s dirt and dust after all--
the earth’s sink and the worms’ castings.
--------
With the wet leaves thick on my steps,
the evening sky bruised dull gray to black,
when I’ve spilt salt and as the saying goes the sorrow and tears,
and the stove is cold so salt won’t burn,
tell me my pocket of charms can counter any spell.
Tell me again the reason for my grandfather’s fingers
afloat in the Mason jar on the fireplace mantel
between the snuff tin and the bowl of circus peanuts.
What about the teeth in the dresser bureau,
the sliver of back bone I wear around my neck?
Again the washed-out photo in the family album,
Pacific wind lifting the small waves onto Coral Beach,
clicking the palm trees’ fronds.
Again my father’s rakish grin,
his bayonet catching a scratch of sun,
his left foot propped on the stripped and bloodied body.
Behind him, a stack of Japanese.
--------
Let me believe in anything.
Doesn’t the grizzled chicken dig up hoodoo hands?
Won’t the blue door frame, the basket of acorns protect me;
what about the knife in a pail of water?
When giving me the dead’s slippered feet
room to room,
why not also synchronicity’s proof,
a wish and the tilted ears of angels?
I want to believe in the power of rosemary
knuckled along the fence
even as the stars order themselves
to an unalterable and essential law.
I want the wind-whipped leaves to settle
and the flattened scrub to right itself,
want the loose tin in the neighbor’s shed
to finish its message.
When this season in its scoured exactitude shifts closer,
give me Devil’s Blue Boletus through the piled leaves,
the slender green of Earth Tongue,
phosphorescent Honey Tuft dispatched by the dead.
Their voices coming nearer, almost deciphered.
Whatever lies you have
there in that nail-clipping of time,
give them to me.
I smile as the blood runs down my arm.
The blood is a mixture of mine and those who have,
betrayed my trust and heart.
I don't care if i die for my crimes,
to me it was all worth it in the end.
Now i know that no one will betray me again,
but if they do i will kill myself instead of them.
Maybe, just maybe, I'll rest in peace with no fear of
ever getting hurt again, but I know that's not true,
you never get peace.
There is no such thing in any life time.So now i know
why i'm here...
I'm one of those few poeple born into this world,
that are priveleged to be hurt, stabbed in the back,
betrayed, and most of all...unloved.
That day I ran out of tears, so now I smile.
I truly have no reason to.
But since my tears are forever dry.
I smile for its the only thing i can do.
I Feel
The
Sorrow
And
The
Pain
Ev ery
Time
I
Have
To
Walk
Along
This
Path
At
Night
I'll Be Sorrow Tomorrow
I'll be sorrow tomorrow,
With me myself and I.
I'll be sorrow tomorrow,
Holding myself while I cry.
I'll be sorrow tomorrow,
While lying sleepless in my bed.
I'll be sorrow the next day as one thought haunts my head.
And when I finally rest my lids and cease my icy breath,
That one thought will exist no longer,
That horrible thought of death.
Ruby
I'll not confer with Sorrow
Till to-morrow;
But Joy shall have her way
This very day.
Ho, eglantine and cresses
For her tresses!--
Let Care, the beggar, wait
Outside the gate.
Tears if you will--but after
Mirth and laughter;
Then, folded hands on breast
And endless rest.
My mother groaned, my father wept,
Into the dangerous world I leapt;
Helpless, naked, piping loud,
Like a fiend hid in a cloud.
Struggling in my father's hands,
Striving against my swaddling bands,
Bound and weary, I thought best
To sulk upon my mother's breast.
What glorious times she has lived!
Bright days of enthusiasm for her activity
Surrounded by lots of friends and a happy family!
Now treasuring plenty of gifts received...
Clouds of gloom have come to fill the air...
For family love and joy of life
She keeps struggling without a strife
Always facing it without despair!
O Sorrow, cruel fellowship,
O Priestess in the vaults of Death,
O sweet and bitter in a breath,
What whispers from thy lying lip?
"The stars," she whispers, "blindly run;
A web is wov'n across the sky;
From out waste places comes a cry,
And murmurs from the dying sun:
"And all the phantom, Nature, stands--
With all the music in her tone,
A hollow echo of my own,--
A hollow form with empty hands."
And shall I take a thing so blind,
Embrace her as my natural good;
Or crush her, like a vice of blood,
Upon the threshold of the mind?
In sorrow
She mourns her beloved son
What's next to follow
No one knows
In sorrow
He mourns his beloved daughter
What's next to follow
His heart is hollow
In sorrow
She mourns her beloved husband
What's next to follow
She is now a widow
In sorrow
He mourns his beloved wife
What's next to follow
His desire for life is renounced to zero
In sorrow
They mourn the passing of a dear friend
Someone they wished to be there tomorrow
It hurts without pretext, whatever sorrow sends
And we know and I know
Sorrow returns not the life's it borrows
Sorrow is a walking deadly shadow
Sorrow is the virus we dread tomorrow
Sorrow is the devils spell of lethal horrors
Therefore my dear fellows
In sorrow no more I mourn her sorrow
In sorrow
I have closed on her all my doors and windows
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
I.  Spirit's House
From naked stones of agony
I will build a house for me;
As a mason all alone
I will raise it, stone by stone,
And every stone where I have bled
Will show a sign of dusky red.
I have not gone the way in vain,
For I have good of all my pain;
My spirit's quiet house will be
Built of naked stones I trod
On roads where I lost sight of God.
II.  Mastery
I would not have a god come in
To shield me suddenly from sin,
And set my house of life to rights;
Nor angels with bright burning wings
Ordering my earthly thoughts and things;
Rather my own frail guttering lights
Wind blown and nearly beaten out;
Rather the terror of the nights
And long, sick groping after doubt;
Rather be lost than let my soul
Slip vaguely from my own control --
Of my own spirit let me be
In sole though feeble mastery.
III.  Lessons
Unless I learn to ask no help
From any other soul but mine,
To seek no strength in waving reeds
Nor shade beneath a straggling pine;
Unless I learn to look at Grief
Unshrinking from her tear-blind eyes,
And take from Pleasure fearlessly
Whatever gifts will make me wise --
Unless I learn these things on earth,
Why was I ever given birth?
IV.  Wisdom
When I have ceased to break my wings
Against the faultiness of things,
And learned that compromises wait
Behind each hardly opened gate,
When I can look Life in the eyes,
Grown calm and very coldly wise,
Life will have given me the Truth,
And taken in exchange -- my youth.
V.  In a Burying Ground
This is the spot where I will lie
When life has had enough of me,
These are the grasses that will blow
Above me like a living sea.
These gay old lilies will not shrink
To draw their life from death of mine,
And I will give my body's fire
To make blue flowers on this vine.
"O Soul," I said, "have you no tears?
Was not the body dear to you?"
I heard my soul say carelessly,
"The myrtle flowers will grow more blue."
VI.  Wood Song
I heard a wood thrush in the dusk
Twirl three notes and make a star --
My heart that walked with bitterness
Came back from very far.
Three shining notes were all he had,
And yet they made a starry call --
I caught life back against my breast
And kissed it, scars and all.
VII.  Refuge
From my spirit's gray defeat,
From my pulse's flagging beat,
From my hopes that turned to sand
Sifting through my close-clenched hand,
From my own fault's slavery,
If I can sing, I still am free.
For with my singing I can make
A refuge for my spirit's sake,
A house of shining words, to be
My fragile immortality.
Despair is in the suns that shine,
And in the rains that fall,
This sad forsaken soul of mine
Is weary of them all.
They fall and shine on alien streets
From those I love and know.
I cannot hear amid the heats
The North Sea's freshening flow
The people hurry up and down,
Like ghosts that cannot lie;
And wandering through the phantom town
The weariest ghost am I.
Then a woman said, "Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow."
And he answered:
Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.
And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.
And how else can it be?
The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.
Is not the cup that hold your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?
And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?
When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.
When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.
Some of you say, "Joy is greater than sorrow," and others say, "Nay, sorrow is the greater."
But I say unto you, they are inseparable.
Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed.
Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy.
Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced.
When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall.
joy and sorrow resolute within and beyond
night seems to lie in deep sleep
speckles of darkness covers her body
i close my eyes by the bliss of love
tonight tolls cry of innocence
as we look back through lone silence
audacity of hope resigns to repose
rain was running in deep breath
earth clenches mirth into riff of dusts
thirst dissolute melting the shadow
would you not comeback to fold of tonight
moments still remembers tinge of snow
Joy and Sorrow.........
Joy and sorrow
are
the light and shade of life
without light and shade
no picture is clear
(april 2009)
One can hear the voice of sorrow sobbing, sobbing endlessly
Yet it hides in dark recesses sorrow you can never see
It's a black and brooding creature with a voice that aches of pain
And all of those who have met with it hope not to meet with it again.
Joy is always bright and breezy joy has got a laughing face
And where ever joy is present you will find a happy place
Joy is loved by everybody the scars of grief it can repair
It is such a happy creature joy is welcome everywhere.
There is not one who likes sorrow you will not hear some one say
I've met with sorrow this morning and meeting it has made my day
At the mention of the name of sorrow people pretend not to hear
But joy always bright and happy greets you with a lusty cheer.
Sorrow it is dark and tearful and it hides in a dark and lonely place
But joy is always bright and cheerful and it greets you with a laughing face
And everybody hates old sorrow as it always gives rise to woe
But joy the happiest of the happy the one all people wish to know.
As a fisher-boy I fared
To the black rock in the sea,
And, while false gifts I prepared.
Listen'd and sang merrily,
Down descended the decoy,
Soon a fish attack'd the bait;
One exultant shout of joy,--
And the fish was captured straight.
Ah! on shore, and to the wood
Past the cliffs, o'er stock and stone,
One foot's traces I pursued,
And the maiden was alone.
Lips were silent, eyes downcast
As a clasp-knife snaps the bait,
With her snare she seized me fast,
And the boy was captured straight.
Heav'n knows who's the happy swain
That she rambles with anew!
I must dare the sea again,
Spite of wind and weather too.
When the great and little fish
Wail and flounder in my net,
Straight returns my eager wish
In her arms to revel yet!
Together they make a bond
Together they stay for life long
Together  they walk and stand and sleep
Together they play, sing and weep
Together  they stay  for life long
in the end they write their song
and if they ever separate
they make the world a bad place
till they meet once more.............
Am I kin to Sorrow,
That so oft
Falls the knocker of my door——
Neither loud nor soft,
But as long accustomed,
Under Sorrow's hand?
Marigolds around the step
And rosemary stand,
And then comes Sorrow—
And what does Sorrow care
For the rosemary
Or the marigolds there?
Am I kin to Sorrow?
Are we kin?
That so oft upon my door—
Oh, come in!
The day was wet, the rain fell souse
Like jars of strawberry jam,  a
sound was heard in the old henhouse,
A beating of a hammer.
Of stalwart form, and visage warm,
Two youths were seen within it,
Splitting up an old tree into perches for their poultry
At a hundred strokes  a minute.
The work is done, the hen has taken
Possession of her nest and eggs,
Without a thought of eggs and bacon,
(Or I am very much mistaken happy)
She turns over each shell,
To be sure that all's well,
Looks into the straw
To see there's no flaw,
Goes once round the house,
Half afraid of a mouse,
Then sinks calmly to rest
On the top of her nest,
First doubling up each of her legs.
Time rolled away, and so did every shell,
'Small by degrees and beautifully less,'
As the large mother with a powerful spell
Forced each in turn its contents to express,
But ah! 'imperfect is expression,'
Some poet said, I don't care who,
If you want to know you must go elsewhere,
One fact I can tell, if you're willing to hear,
He never attended a Parliament Session,
For I'm certain that if he had ever been there,
Full quickly would he have changed his ideas,
With the hissings, the hootings, the groans and the cheers.
And as to his name it is pretty clear
That it wasn't me and it wasn't you!
And so it fell upon a day,
(That is, it never rose again)
A chick was found upon the hay,
Its little life had ebbed away.
No longer frolicsome and gay,
No longer could it run or play.
'And must we, chicken, must we part? '
Its master [7] cried with bursting heart,
And voice of agony and pain.
So one, whose ticket's marked 'Return', [8]
When to the lonely roadside station
He flies in fear and perturbation,
Thinks of his home- the hissing urn-
Then runs with flying hat and hair,
And, entering, finds to his despair
He's missed the very last train. [9]
Too long it were to tell of each conjecture
Of chicken suicide, and poultry victim,
The deadly frown, the stern and dreary lecture,
The timid guess, 'perhaps some needle pricked him! '
The din of voice, the words both loud and many,
The sob, the tear, the sigh that none could smother,
Till all agreed 'a shilling to a penny
It killed itself, and we acquit the mother! '
Scarce was the verdict spoken,
When that still calm was broken,
A childish form hath burst into the throng;
With tears and looks of sadness,
That bring no news of gladness,
But tell too surely something hath gone wrong!
'The sight I have come upon
The stoutest heart [10] would sicken,
That nasty hen has been and gone
And killed another chicken! '
So I called Jamie
and Michael
and Zach.
After you didn't get back to me.
And then I couldn't sleep,
so I called Eric,
Tom and Bryan.
Because you didn't get back to me.
And I laid awake and counted the crickets'
chirps and thought about the nights
we had spent
in each other's arms-
The conversations over bottles of wine
and delicious, gourmet dinners;
six-packs, hoagies and pizza.
I loved you and I said it.
While you were moisturizing your
elbows and forearms.
I said I loved you and I meant it.
And you told me to `stop.'
To stop and breathe.   Is what you meant.
Have you ever tasted sorrow,
I think it taste like lemons,
If all feelings had a taste i think of lemons,
They can be sour then can get sweet,
Lemons sweet or sour then comes the sorrow taste,
Sorrow taste of rain,
Sorrow taste of lemons,
Every year on Mother Day,
I have many words to say,
from here Old-Age home where I stay,
to my children who live far, far away,
who are too busy, a visit they rarely pay.
My hairs are becoming sparse and gray,
My teeth decay,
and break away,
My mind depresses and in dismay,
My nervous response slow and delays,
My memory forgetful and in disarray,
My legs weak and walk in sway,
I feel so gloomy when the day is without sun-rays,
I feel so scare when the night is without moon-light spray,
I keep the toys made of clay,
with which in your young age, you played,
to keep the boredom at bay.
I keep these toys to prevent sorrow which wants to slay,
my lonely heart which already is frail and  frayed.
To my grandchildren, a Filial Piety, you need to display,
so that they would know how to obey,
to you when you are old in later days.
Otherwise they would say 'nay, '
and do according to the way,
you did to me before, down into the grave, I lay.
When i dream i dream of sorrow,
My dreams are long and dark,
I can hear the sond but never see the color,
My dreams leave me awake some nights thinking,
Some dreams are more of a story,
But all have sarrow and pure sadness,
The trees are dead im the last alive,
All my dreams end the same,
A rock and a bang,
The rock is the earth,
More sorrow then the night before,
My dreams are deep and make me wright things like this,
The more i dream the more i cry,
The more i cry the more i think about my own death,
Will a die at 90 of age or 15 from a gun,
Will the killing ever stop,
Will we ever know how the world ends,
My dreams paint a dark and stormy picture,
My poems paint a clear,
My mind crys of dark things like this,
My hart crys harder and harder,
Between sweet and sour,
I think the end will end sour,
Are we to end in fire or ice,
You chose i would rather end in ice,
I am lucky
I have your love
I am blessed
I know you
But
It is so hurtful
And
So painful
That I can't feel and touch you
Mild, balmy breeze,
Hauntingly fragrant
With Night Jasmine.
A small evergreen tree,
Twinkling
With ivory white flowers
In my garden,
Resplendent at night,
Like the star
Studded sky.
Before the day breaks,
The tree silently sheds
Its crowning glory
On Mother Earth’s breast.
To pay homage
In all humility.
Overcome with wonder
I find myself ponder,
As I gather the flowers
In my wicker basket
On my way to the temple.
To offer
To the deity
At the altar.
Oh, Harshingar,
Why are you
Called
The Tree of Sorrow?
Night Jasmine is called Harshingar and Paarijatta in India its
A sacred tree, grown in temples. Flowers are offered to the deity in the temples. there are many myths associated with it.
Can little sweetness be added to sorrow?
Can sadness be not pushed aside for tomorrow?
When both are interwoven to each other
Why to think of them more and bother?
Pure or true love can never deceive
Warmth and feelings we always receive
Best ideas emanate from within and peace be conceived
Does that speak of real intention as goal is perceived?
Let love speak and not remain or confine within
Eyes must reveal and nothing should remain in
It is very much essential and must prevail at last
Acceptance should be made known very fast
I must acknowledge it as God sent gift
Why to have in life more tussles and rift?
We should never change stand and shift
Switch over from one to another should be very swift
I am prepared to forgo prestige and pride
Why in love it should be sought and hide?
Simple admission of true feelings and no guilt
Trust the opinion and strong foundation to be built
I shall seek no favor in return
Let my love grow and cause no concern
Earnest desire must be explained in turn
Let there be real union without any heart burn
May be in my life today is the happiest day
I will continue to seek and have my way
Let her remain true to her conscience and say
Never will we be separated, come what may!
Things may prove difficult if it turns out differently
Both have to think it honestly and approach separately
Time may run out us and not allow us to unite
Passion may remain passion only and within ignite
We may take steps to see that it doesn’t turn ugly
It may be too early also to forecast it so early
Still it will remain our top priority to tackle the issue
We must get in turn what ever is destined to be due
We will not be cowed down with by unexpected events
We will face it bravely when it is made known very next moment
We will not allow it to happen and take us completely by surprise
But all possibilities are definitely there and bound to arise
We shall from now on shed no tears and face the reality
We shall stand firm and come up bravely for any eventuality
It has to be faced with as if dealing with any of the disaster
We must carve out the way and destiny as done by master
Can I see another's woe,
And not be in sorrow too?
Can I see another's grief,
And not seek for kind relief?
Can I see a falling tear,
And not feel my sorrow's share?
Can a father see his child
Weep, nor be with sorrow filled?
Can a mother sit and hear
An infant groan, an infant fear?
No, no!  never can it be!
Never, never can it be!
And can He who smiles on all
Hear the wren with sorrows small,
Hear the small bird's grief and care,
Hear the woes that infants bear --
And not sit beside the next,
Pouring pity in their breast,
And not sit the cradle near,
Weeping tear on infant's tear?
And not sit both night and day,
Wiping all our tears away?
Oh no! never can it be!
Never, never can it be!
He doth give his joy to all:
He becomes an infant small,
He becomes a man of woe,
He doth feel the sorrow too.
Think not thou canst sigh a sigh,
And thy Maker is not by:
Think not thou canst weep a tear,
And thy Maker is not year.
Oh He gives to us his joy,
That our grief He may destroy:
Till our grief is fled an gone
He doth sit by us and moan.
Good morning Mr Magpie
alone again, like me
I greet you then I bless myself
and hope that I shall see
your lady busy in the trees
up here in Jagger Green.
The wind is soft and urgent
on the pale green Yorkshire hills
rooks fuss in high bare branches
looking down on silent mills
and the magpie is a single bird
up here in Jagger Green.
I watched him as he rested
in the Mayday morning light
then hard and low and straight there came
another flash of black and white
and the sun is like a woman's kiss
up here in Jagger Green.
626
Only God—detect the Sorrow—
Only God—
The Jehovahs—are no Babblers—
Unto God—
God the Son—Confide it—
Still secure—
God the Spirit's Honor—
Just as sure—
Tears fill my heart,
I cry in the darkness,
I cry in the shadows,
I cry in the moonlight,
alone and afraid.
The pain engulfs me,
taking me away,
yet keeping me chained.
My mind screams,
my body aches,
for these painful memories
are forever etched in my heart.
What of life as the sun rises away from the cloud of doom.
Is there a place that is without doom and gloom.
Is there a far distant land where life is full of fun, and is there a
land where life does not have to look down the barral of a gun,
Torment and sorrow as far as we can see but life could be so
different if everyone was free
Free from hunger, free from pain, but there is never a break
it always remains the same. Sex abused kids and the
want for food, what is the meaning of this modern brood.
Can we change this perfectic world and find a life without sadness
and sorrow, can it happen now or do we wait until tomorrow.
Tomorrow never comes as everyone knows, but the pain and sorrow
just grows and grows.
There is a chance that the world could live as one,
but not while we are looking down the barrel of a gun.
Every country has it's own rule, but it's the people that live there are
made to look the fool.
Loathing tomorrow,
Your expected departure
Cuts me to the quick
Survival is uncertain
Without you to protect my heart
I've both loved and hated you
For being my source
Of pleasure and pain
But I never wanted
To be without you
Not for an instant
Our life together is over
And painful as the thought may be
I know our parting
Is for the best
What more can I say except
Good-bye my lovely
Lily-white breast
In the fading light I watch you wave goodbye
As shadows fall upon you I cry
As the dark of night descends
I lay my heavy head
And pray, dear God
Bring him back, my breath!
Or take me now
For I’m as good as dead
© 2009 Sonya Florentino
I still remember the soft touch of your hand,
As I stand here lonely in this foreign land.
And can you remember how I loved you?
Does love still glow in those eyes of blue?
Sing me that song those birds sang long ago.
Hold me close in those arms and never let me go.
Don't say you are leaving as you have done before.
Say we will be together today and forevermore....
Let's walk together and talk of what has been done,
And then go for a swim in the bright sun.
As I get the feeling the time is drawing near,
I will hug you to me and cry a sorrowed tear.
The memories were special, for now they are gone,
But I still recall each one with every rising dawn.
One last goodbye, parting forevermore.
One last kiss, more feverish than before.
I cherish our  love,
It's tender, sweet song.
And hope in my heart,
This parting won't be long.
I stand tall as all the misery around me floats
The words when i first heard of the sadness in my life
But i do not budge for i am strong
I walk past all who offer me a kind word to help ease my soul
I decline for I let my strength shine through
Acceptance within my heart I say i am all right
Everyone watches as i walk past and comment on my strength
Some fear that i have no feelings others envy for they hurt so much
I walk through the door of my bedroom and shut it behind me
I fall to my knees and catch myself with my hands as the tears stain the floor
My strength is gone and now my sorrrow envelopes me
My sight is blurred as the pure rain falls from my cheeks
I can not breathe as I realize what happened
After some time i wipe my eyes dry and walk back out with my strength for all to see
Rivers are like the life we share,
Sometimes we go fast,
Sometimes we go slow,
My river is slow and filled with sorrow,
It seems endless,
Never turns and always follows the same path,
Far from anyone or any place,
Alone my river stands and alone it shall stay,
The sorrowful river with a path so untold,
Will my river of sorrow ever cross paths with one other,
Its just a small story
And I feel the need to say it
I just couldn't take it anymore
The pain he was causing me
It was just too much for me to bare
It was only that night
Which I realized that I had to do it
I gave you a text message
Apologizing, but in the same time
Telling you that I had to be strong
And forget you
It was over
I never worried about my past or future
And you were my past
That was the only thing
Which was clear to me
Suddenly you call me
Asking for an explanation
I told you it was too much for me to put up with
You did your best to apologize
But it was all in vain
There was no time for another try
Although a big future was awaiting the both of us
You still tried to apologize
But I was too stubborn to try once more
All I did was close my phone
And go to bed
Hoping that till tomorrow I would have forgotten you
I feel asleep very fast
Because all the tears I cried had finally made their effect
The next morning I woke up happily
As I turned my phone on I was ready to call you
But then I just froze there
Doing absolutely nothing
Remembering I could no longer be with you
I went to our special place
Next to the pink lake
Under our blossom tree
But I saw someone was already there
It was you
I started quivering
You turn around to me and fake a smile
But even his fake smile soon faded away
Apologizing once more
With little hope in your heart
A tear runs down my face
And I run to you
You open your arms widely
Patiently waiting for me
To throw myself in them
It was exactly what I did
You tell me you're never going to do any mistake
Never again in your life
I tell you that I just can't live without you
It was that night
I realized how much I love you
How much I care for you
How I'm addicted to you
You're like a drug for me
And I'll never check in a rehab
With such a satisfactory drug
Like the one which is on my mind right now
That drug is you
Now we just go on with our lives
Being there for each other
With no fake smiles
With no secrets
Only with a flame in both our hearts
A flame which will burn forever
For the first time in my life
I am silenced by sorrow.
Questions go unspoken.
Answers remain unknown.
Fearing the brutality
of the darkness
I hide.
If I refuse to look too closely
will this still be true tomorrow?
Will you still have suffered
as you did?
Could I plunge
my hand of friendship
through the tar-like darkness
of your world
to bring you light?
Can you see the way out
or must I light a thousand candles
to ignite that part of you
that believes life can be wonderful?
With the first strike of the match....
I offer you a glimmer of hope.
I'll start lighting those candles now
and I won't stop until you see it.
~I'm praying for you Denis.  Please be well.
China's Emperor, craving beauty that might shake an empire,
Was on the throne for many years, searching, never finding,
Till a little child of the Yang clan, hardly even grown,
Bred in an inner chamber, with no one knowing her,
But with graces granted by heaven and not to be concealed,
At last one day was chosen for the imperial household.
If she but turned her head and smiled, there were cast a hundred spells,
And the powder and paint of the Six Palaces faded into nothing.
...It was early spring. They bathed her in the FlowerPure Pool,
Which warmed and smoothed the creamy-tinted crystal of her skin,
And, because of her languor, a maid was lifting her
When first the Emperor noticed her and chose her for his bride.
The cloud of her hair, petal of her cheek, gold ripples of her crown when she moved,
Were sheltered on spring evenings by warm hibiscus curtains;
But nights of spring were short and the sun arose too soon,
And the Emperor, from that time forth, forsook his early hearings
And lavished all his time on her with feasts and revelry,
His mistress of the spring, his despot of the night.
There were other ladies in his court, three thousand of rare beauty,
But his favours to three thousand were concentered in one body.
By the time she was dressed in her Golden Chamber, it would be almost evening;
And when tables were cleared in the Tower of Jade, she would loiter, slow with wine.
Her sisters and her brothers all were given titles;
And, because she so illumined and glorified her clan,
She brought to every father, every mother through the empire,
Happiness when a girl was born rather than a boy.
...High rose Li Palace, entering blue clouds,
And far and wide the breezes carried magical notes
Of soft song and slow dance, of string and bamboo music.
The Emperor's eyes could never gaze on her enough-
Till war-drums, booming from Yuyang, shocked the whole earth
And broke the tunes of The Rainbow Skirt and the Feathered Coat.
The Forbidden City, the nine-tiered palace, loomed in the dust
From thousands of horses and chariots headed southwest.
The imperial flag opened the way, now moving and now pausing- -
But thirty miles from the capital, beyond the western gate,
The men of the army stopped, not one of them would stir
Till under their horses' hoofs they might trample those moth- eyebrows....
Flowery hairpins fell to the ground, no one picked them up,
And a green and white jade hair-tassel and a yellowgold hair- bird.
The Emperor could not save her, he could only cover his face.
And later when he turned to look, the place of blood and tears
Was hidden in a yellow dust blown by a cold wind.
... At the cleft of the Dagger-Tower Trail they crisscrossed through a cloud-line
Under Omei Mountain. The last few came.
Flags and banners lost their colour in the fading sunlight....
But as waters of Shu are always green and its mountains always blue,
So changeless was His Majesty's love and deeper than the days.
He stared at the desolate moon from his temporary palace.
He heard bell-notes in the evening rain, cutting at his breast.
And when heaven and earth resumed their round and the dragon car faced home,
The Emperor clung to the spot and would not turn away
From the soil along the Mawei slope, under which was buried
That memory, that anguish. Where was her jade-white face?
Ruler and lords, when eyes would meet, wept upon their coats
As they rode, with loose rein, slowly eastward, back to the capital.
...The pools, the gardens, the palace, all were just as before,
The Lake Taiye hibiscus, the Weiyang Palace willows;
But a petal was like her face and a willow-leaf her eyebrow --
And what could he do but cry whenever he looked at them?
...Peach-trees and plum-trees blossomed, in the winds of spring;
Lakka-foliage fell to the ground, after autumn rains;
The Western and Southern Palaces were littered with late grasses,
And the steps were mounded with red leaves that no one swept away.
Her Pear-Garden Players became white-haired
And the eunuchs thin-eyebrowed in her Court of PepperTrees;
Over the throne flew fire-flies, while he brooded in the twilight.
He would lengthen the lamp-wick to its end and still could never sleep.
Bell and drum would slowly toll the dragging nighthours
And the River of Stars grow sharp in the sky, just before dawn,
And the porcelain mandarin-ducks on the roof grow thick with morning frost
And his covers of kingfisher-blue feel lonelier and colder
With the distance between life and death year after year;
And yet no beloved spirit ever visited his dreams.
...At Lingqiong lived a Taoist priest who was a guest of heaven,
Able to summon spirits by his concentrated mind.
And people were so moved by the Emperor's constant brooding
That they besought the Taoist priest to see if he could find her.
He opened his way in space and clove the ether like lightning,
Up to heaven, under the earth, looking everywhere.
Above, he searched the Green Void, below, the Yellow Spring;
But he failed, in either place, to find the one he looked for.
And then he heard accounts of an enchanted isle at sea,
A part of the intangible and incorporeal world,
With pavilions and fine towers in the five-coloured air,
And of exquisite immortals moving to and fro,
And of one among them-whom they called The Ever True-
With a face of snow and flowers resembling hers he sought.
So he went to the West Hall's gate of gold and knocked at the jasper door
And asked a girl, called Morsel-of-Jade, to tell The Doubly- Perfect.
And the lady, at news of an envoy from the Emperor of China,
Was startled out of dreams in her nine-flowered, canopy.
She pushed aside her pillow, dressed, shook away sleep,
And opened the pearly shade and then the silver screen.
Her cloudy hair-dress hung on one side because of her great haste,
And her flower-cap was loose when she came along the terrace,
While a light wind filled her cloak and fluttered with her motion
As though she danced The Rainbow Skirt and the Feathered Coat.
And the tear-drops drifting down her sad white face
Were like a rain in spring on the blossom of the pear.
But love glowed deep within her eyes when she bade him thank her liege,
Whose form and voice had been strange to her ever since their parting --
Since happiness had ended at the Court of the Bright Sun,
And moons and dawns had become long in Fairy-Mountain Palace.
But when she turned her face and looked down toward the earth
And tried to see the capital, there were only fog and dust.
So she took out, with emotion, the pledges he had given
And, through his envoy, sent him back a shell box and gold hairpin,
But kept one branch of the hairpin and one side of the box,
Breaking the gold of the hairpin, breaking the shell of the box;
"Our souls belong together," she said, " like this gold and this shell --
Somewhere, sometime, on earth or in heaven, we shall surely
And she sent him, by his messenger, a sentence reminding him
Of vows which had been known only to their two hearts:
"On the seventh day of the Seventh-month, in the Palace of Long Life,
We told each other secretly in the quiet midnight world
That we wished to fly in heaven, two birds with the wings of one,
And to grow together on the earth, two branches of one tree."
Earth endures, heaven endures; some time both shall end,
While this unending sorrow goes on and on for ever.
The pain crashes to the depth of my soul
Just another feeling of sorrow
Another flinch from pain
Just like yesterday, it'll be there tomorrow
Wounds healing slowly
So slow, it seems not at all
I want it gone tonight
But still and fast I fall
Where does it go from here?
Does it end?
Will it continue?
When did it begin?
But you don't care, do you?
I don't know why I even bother
You will never be what I need
Why should you try now to be the father?
Are you done hurting me?
Are you finished yet?
You enjoy it, don't you?
You have not one regret.
You took away my pride,
My joy, and my brother.
You avoided talking of things I needed to hear
Such as my mother
I just needed you
The love of a father
But I don't want it anymore because
I was never your daughter.
There's sorrow and pain
Wherever we want to go,
We search thoroughly in vain
To prosper and grow;
What will become of this
For nothing is too far fetched,
Onward thought a mere wish
Bleaked out and stretched.
Gray clouds in much rain
The days too lost to know,
A turning wheel ah here again
Something that's a while ago;
Too many things it then is
Through with past time etched,
One of those little reminisce
Unimportant and outstretched.
There's sorrow and pain
In the house down the row,
Ordinary life and strain
TV taboos and scarecrow;
All we cannot ordinarily dismiss
Brought to mind and sketched,
With dissatisfaction and hiss
The many things we retched.
Having fallen,
Having failed miserably,
Having lost my bearings,
Having had my spirit broken,
Having been entirely too human,
Having lost my mind but found it again,
I don't know quite what to think of life
except that I still feel deeply and appreciate
that sorrow makes honey taste sweeter still.
Red lotus incense fades on
The jeweled curtain. Autumn
Comes again. Gently I open
My silk dress and float alone
On the orchid boat. Who can
Take a letter beyond the clouds?
Only the wild geese come back
And write their ideograms
On the sky under the full
Moon that floods the West Chamber.
Flowers, after their kind, flutter
And scatter. Water after
Its nature, when spilt, at last
Gathers again in one place.
Creatures of the same species
Long for each other. But we
Are far apart and I have
Grown learned in sorrow.
Nothing can make it dissolve
And go away. One moment,
It is on my eyebrows.
The next, it weighs on my heart.
Still I can hear your deep sob
Echoing in my heart
Pricking my conscience
I don't know what to say
We all grieve on your fate
But never raised a finger
I can see you stretched on a dingy cot
Your house dilapidated
Your hair undone spreading
Your tears dry
I see your bare neck
Still bearing red with finger prints
Your lips dry with fear
Oh mother your eye lashes wide with fear
Your deep blue eyes move round and round
The nightmare you had had multiple
The pain of life written all over your face
I can imagine all what you have gone through
Your children weep pulling yr skirt
Your torn skirt
Your body smelling sweat and saliva
Of those soldiers
Your breasts bear the stench of their beret
Your veil was hung on the wall stained in blood
Shaming the humanity
I see your children sucking from your dried breasts
Crying for little milk
Poor things they never had a decent meal for a long long time
Oh poor babies
We hear they cry waking you up
But you are tired
In fatigue
Oh my mother now they are bargaining your flesh
The shopkeepers and the Yankees
They want to trade your flesh
Your pride
Your chastity Your righteousness
Your dignity
Oh mother I weep for you
Let my tears mingle with blood flowing
_ in Euphretis and Tigris
I cry louder and louder
Until someone hears……
_____________________
the tear of sorrow runs down my cheek
friendship is what I seek
I used to think I had it all
but now my backs against the wall
and my heart has been broken
and these words are unspoken
I look back at my past
and wish the sorrow would end my life at last...
SORROW, on wing through the world for ever,
Here and there for awhile would borrow
Rest, if rest might haply deliver
Sorrow.
One thought lies close in her heart gnawn thorough
With pain, a weed in a dried-up river,
A rust-red share in an empty furrow.
Hearts that strain at her chain would sever
The link where yesterday frets to-morrow:
All things pass in the world, but never
Sorrow.
Challenges in life, The ups and downs,
It’s all part of life, both smiles and frowns,
Like a Ferris wheel, you’re up then down.
You wish to hide, or maybe leave town,
Reality is real; we all face the fear,
We smile with joy; we all shed a tear,
Life can be lonely, when no one is near,
We often think, we’re not welcome here.
The sorrow we feel, that others can’t see,
A desire for help, we wish to plea,
A sense of loneliness, A desire to flee,
You’re not alone, both you and me,
Friends are waiting, with the comfort we need,
They are waiting; their hearts also bleed,
One small gesture, just one small seed,
Is all that’s required, for a friend to proceed,
To listen and comfort, for someone like you,
They want to help. They have been there too,
We’re not by ourselves, when life is so blue,
Someone can help, with the pain we go  through,
Remember when lives were lost
You sleep and there is sorrow
Sorrow is when you’re awake.
Sorrow is the feeling you wish was fake
Sorrow is like your skin always attached to you.
Sorrow is like a tree sometimes you don't even pay attention to it, it's just there.
It is the feeling, which makes you, feels like your sad or it's unfair.
But you can't live without sorrow.
Just like you can't live without love.
Sorrow might even be the key to love
Why does the thin grey strand
Floating up from the forgotten
Cigarette between my fingers,
Why does it trouble me?
Ah, you will understand;
When I carried my mother downstairs,
A few times only, at the beginning
Of her soft-foot malady,
I should find, for a reprimand
To my gaiety, a few long grey hairs
On the breast of my coat; and one by one
I let them float up the dark chimney.
Remember
your tears
are only water.
Sorrow;
A pain you never forget.
Sorrow;
Life's true regret.
Sorrow;
An endless demon who will never quit
Sorrow;
The rock in the path
Sorrow;
My life's lonely tale.
Sorrow like a ceaseless rain
Beats upon my heart.
People twist and scream in pain,—
Dawn will find them still again;
This has neither wax nor wane,
Neither stop nor start.
People dress and go to town;
I sit in my chair.
All my thoughts are slow and brown:
Standing up or sitting down
Little matters, or what gown
Or what shoes I wear.
My feElings FoR You HAd ChaNged,
I FouNd iT dEeP WiThiN,
I'm gEtTiNg WeLL wiTh ThiS PrObLem,
But ThErE's no oTher  WaY.
You trEAtEd Me BAd,
What Do You WaNt ME tO FeEL?
jUSt BE Quiet?
And FeEL SoRrY FoR Me? .
mY ANgEr FoR you,
WiLL SuReLy ReMAiN,
GeTtiNg ThiS BruisEs,
mkes Me WonDer, WHy diD i suFfER Like This?
My AngEr FOr You,
wAs LikE A  bUrNing FiRe,
Not seeiNg You,
MAkes  Me fEeL vEry Much haPpy.
My aNgEr foR YOU,
Was LikE A hELL,
And ThIS wiLL Be ForEvEr,
AngEr ANd HAtrEd In mY HeArt.
To the melody of "Sheng Sheng Man"
I pine and peak
And questless seek
Groping and moping to linger and languish
Anon to wander and wonder, glare, stare and start
Flesh chill'd
Ghost thrilled
With grim dart
And keen canker of rankling anguish.
Sudden a gleam
Of fair weather felt
But fled as fast -- and the ice-cold season stays.
How hard to have these days
In rest or respite, peace or truce.
Sip upon sip of tasteless wine
Is of slight use
To counter or quell
The fierce lash of the evening blast.
The wild geese -- see --
Fly overhead
Ah, there's the grief
That's chief -- grief beyond bearing,
Wild fowl far faring
In days of old you sped
Bearing my true love's tender thoughts to me.
Lo, how my lawn is rife with golden blooms
Of bunched chrysanthemums --
Weary their heads they bow.
Who cares to pluck them now?
While I the casement keep
Lone, waiting, waiting for night
And, as the shades fall
Upon broad leaves, sparse rain-drops drip.
Ah, such a plight
Of grief -- grief unbearable, unthinkable.
sorrow can leave you spending in a frame
with so much gulit and pain
sorrow was  taken as a game
but it's so much more than and emotion
it's a pain
love brings sorrow in the game
it's like a pain calling your name
sometimes that come and never goes away
sorrow is based on a fear
sorrow is a secret you hold near
sorrow can hurt based on if it's a fear
but thats basically why sorrow found you here
My soul is cold as ice.
My heart is darker then the void.
Nothing seems nice.
All happiness devoid.
I feel nothing.
Except that of pain.
I've looked for that one something.
But I just ended up crying in the rain.
My tears are dry.
They could fill the deepest oceans.
The end seems nigh.
There is only pain, no other emotions.
My hope, my life...shattered.
I cannot pick up the pieces.
It's not like I mattered.
But my sorrow increases.
I have been mocked, betrayed, and destroyed.
No medication can numb my hurt.
All those around me seem overjoyed.
When my face is shoved into the dirt.
My God has left me.
Sitting up in his throne.
I did not want to be his enemy.
I'll just sit here and moan.
My love has thrown me aside.
Like damaged goods.
I wish I just would have died.
In a grave unmarked in the deepest of woods.
And so here I am.
I am not sure if I will be alive tomorrow.
I just don't give a damn.
I am going to drown in my sorrow.
Sorrow, sorrow why have you catch me so
Why have you left me in such a big hole
sorrow, sorrow when will you leave my soul
and let my heart breath so
There is nowhere to go
if you keep beating on my heart so
Sorrow, sorrow its time to go
and let your heart be with your soul
My life is full of sorrow
My death I do not fear
I'm just a pitiful hallow
I'm not even worth a tear...
I pass the weeping willow,
wondering for whom it cries.
Could it be for all God’s children
falling like stars in the sky?
I hear the sound of blowing wind,
wondering for whom it moans.
Could it be for all God’s children
who must wander with no home?
I hear the sound of the lonely wolf,
wondering for whom it howls.
Could it be for all God’s children
who must sleep with empty bowels?
I hear the sound of the church bells,
wondering for whom they toll.
Perhaps they toll to remind all God’s children
to do the good deeds they were told.
sorrows kept you moored,
in distant shores,
unburdened to me,  your woes,
darling...please come home.....
****Some Sort of Haiku******
Yes, our partings have progressed to become
Sorrowed but sweet.
Trusting tomorrow, reluctantly we
Tear, discreetly
Away, obeying no impulse to stay.
Holding back beats
Of incredible passion, our hearts now
Part, retreating
With hope that Fate soon discloses some way
Of completing
Destiny's call. Our yearnings, now braided
Round sorrow's feet
Can then seat themselves at Heaven's sweet door.
Then meetings
Can flourish fulfilled, - replete forevermore.
Time flys leaving you.standing in the middle of the floor.
when you realize he's gone you fall  hopping he will return.
(a Tear falls to the floor)    and glass breaks.
Blood begins to shed when you gave up your life you gave up him.Time he realizes your gone he falls  to the floor hopping its not true.
That she would come back to you.(a tear falls)    and you pick up your gun.
A shot is Fired.
when u gave up your life for the girl you loved....
you got her back now you and her will forever stand with each other with out a end.
love lisa bray!
NEVER dry, never dry,
Tears that eternal love sheddeth!
How dreary, how dead doth the world still appear,
When only half-dried on the eye is the tear!
Never dry, never dry,
Tears that unhappy love sheddeth!
The lethal bullets of sorrow
Aim at our rosy morrows,
By the cruel devilish FATE,
Push the men through sadness gate.
Cruel death is a helping mate,
Eager to share his blood -filled plate.
The bullet targets our jobs,
Pellet pierces our hopes.
The shrapnel shatters our ties,
The smoke smothers our sighs.
Battered love cries, and dashed dream sobs,
And lo! frail heart quivers to cope.
Some sheds tear dry, some sheds wet,
Blaming tight-lipped heavenly gate.
Some hides their pain in joyous muse,
Some reveals it in word obtuse.
No one is immune to attacks,
Save men trudging on divine tracks.
Dr Hitesh C Sheth
01/05/2009
Tears of sorrow flows
Into the sea of sadness,
All the memories and dreams
Clouded with pain and agony.
The endless shadow of darkness,
Devours the land,
In the overwhelming vision,
Of lost hope and regrets,
Mirroring the shameful truth
Of grief in our hearts.
Why must we give in
To the senseless meaning of sorrow
O the irony
When It dominates our souls
Revealing its true face
Showing the weakness
Of our heart
Where minds are broken and lost
Where feelings are scrambled and
Confusion forms and frustration come to be,
No matter what happens,
This endless suffering will stay
Till bones are faded,
Along the sands of time.
“ People cry, and people try
not to cry, but only lies can they try…”
Once I heard the song of sadness,
T'was full of melancholy pure.
I sat and listened for what seemed to be forever,
It seemed to be joy's cure.
Never again can you think the same,
Once you've heard such a song.
Never again can you live the same,
Once you know what's truly right and wrong.
I fell into pieces,
I lost all my hope.
I whithered away,
There was no way to cope.
Now I've joined the chior,
I am not alone.
I sing the song of sorrow and madness,
Chilling listeners to the bone.
THE brawling of a sparrow in the eaves,
The brilliant moon and all the milky sky,
And all that famous harmony of leaves,
Had blotted out man's image and his cry.
A girl arose that had red mournful lips
And seemed the greatness of the world in tears,
Doomed like Odysseus and the labouring ships
And proud as Priam murdered with his peers;
Arose, and on the instant clamorous eaves,
A climbing moon upon an empty sky,
And all that lamentation of the leaves,
Could but compose man's image and his cry.
If we love a thing, a flower, Nature or a person, it is
Indeed a natural feeling of heart that settles in mind;
If we lose a thing, we get another thing in its place;
If we lose a flower, we get another one, but not a person!
Nature is eternal, but all others appear and disappear;
But humans with heart and mind it is difficult to lose
The loved ones that cannot be regained in the world...;
Grown ups may manage themselves, but what about a child?
The child remembers the loved ones deeply in heart ever;
The child may forget by diversion on so many new things;
The child may grow up, but never forgets the loved ones;
How can the child bear, if loved ones pass away regularly?
The longing of child grows bringing in the sorrow of life;
Like the darkness slowly occupies in full the whole place,
Sorrow engulfs the heart of joyful child, if all loved ones
Pass away one after the other in the journey of life here!
This kind of sorrow how can the child bear and manage ever
Is a big question heartens me much, when I recollect the
Deep love of a child on me after the demise of my better-
Half sometime back in my life never leaving my mind sure!
The fire of love was burning, yet so low
That in the dark we scarce could see its rays,
And in the light of perfect-placid days
Nothing but smouldering embers dull and slow.
Vainly, for love's delight, we sought to throw
New pleasures on the pyre to make it blaze:
In life's calm air and tranquil-prosperous ways
We missed the radiant heat of long ago.
Then in the night, a night of sad alarms,
Bitter with pain and black with fog of fears,
That drove us trembling to each other's arms --
Across the gulf of darkness and salt tears,
Into life's calm the wind of sorrow came,
And fanned the fire of love to clearest flame.
The women of your age I train my eyes on
Remind me of you through some resemblances
And some violent contrasts now and then.
Nose studs and ear drops I see in the shops
Catch my eyes and bring to my view your face.
I imagine the stud worn on your nose
And with that how your nose would tempt my lips.
I imagine the drops hung from your ears
And with that how your ears would prompt me.
When I am lonely you are in my thought;
I dream of passing my hand through your hair
And gazing into your eyes full of love.
To bring this about, I must conquer Fate
As I accuse myself of cowardice.
I have no courage nor propriety
Even to let you know my feelings.
This is my sorrow that cripples my mind.
This is my agony underlining.
02.11.2008
Though the last glimpse of Erin with sorrow I see,
Yet wherever thou art shall seem Erin to me;
In exile thy bosom shall still be my home,
And thine eyes make my climate wherever we roam.
To the gloom of some desert or cold rocky shore,
Where the eye of the stranger can haunt us no more,
I will fly with my Coulin, and think the rough wind
Less rude than the foes we leave frowning behind.
And I'll gaze on thy gold hair as graceful it wreathes,
And hang o'er thy soft harp, as wildly it breathes;
Nor dread that the cold-hearted Saxon will tear
One chord from that harp, or one lock from that hair.
By the river,
under the sorrow tree,
the universe says
the bones must dance,
and she, who goes out with a net
to catch the spirits,
returns, her hands filled
only with the dark briars
we have hummed
these many years.
The one who sees sorrow
cannot staunch it,
yet by her side
something white
announces itself.
The bones are sucked clean,
the one nearest the heart
becomes a flute,
when you blow,
the dead come
and behind them,
the other bones in a circle
The universe says
loss demands birth
and the two
are lovers.
Her tears fall in the darkness as the rain falls in the night,
Silvery tears like silvery rain, hidden out of sight,
The stars fall from her eyes like floating petals from the sky,
Is there no one in all this world who hears this woman cry?
A simple little floating dreamy thought has stired this womans heart,
The golden sleepy dream of yesterdays before they were apart,
What comfort can there be found for a petal so fair and slim
Alone in a forest dark of sorrow she weeps again for him?
Warm silver rolling tears blemish a once complexion fair,
That once shown in the fairest radiance midst a cloak of golden hair.
And the children whimper and cry for a father's care
and love they've never known,
Who sees their little tears of innocent years
as the winds of time are blown?
What sorrow will you know tonight
when all the worlds asleep,
When through the darkness comes the wind
that cuts the heart so deep,
For there is no one there to dry your tears
or your childrens tears who cling around your frock,
When there has been another bloody slaughter
in the dungeons of H Block.
BOBBY SANDS was twenty seven years old when he died on the sixty sixth day of hunger-strike in the H-Block prison hospital, Long Kesh, on the 5th May 1981. The young IRA Volunteer who had spent almost the last nine years of his short life in prison as a result of his Irish republican activities was, by the time of his death, world-famous having been elected to the british parliament and having withstood pressures, political and moral (including an emissary from Pope John Paul II) , for him to abandon his fast which was aimed at countering a criminalisation policy by the british government. His name became a household word in Ireland, and his sacrifice (as did that of those who followed him)  overturned british propaganda on Ireland and had a real effect in advancing the cause of Irish freedom.
skin seems roasted by scorching rays
sky is burning by heat of summer
sultry weather remembers autumn’s flow
anger never reels through by fear of love.
softness mellows by sweet feeling
where is smile latching on into hide?
oh emotion be cup of anger retreating
silence miffed yet untold by grip of sorrow
night still seems resilient by tear as dew
heart loses its rhythm riling upon wisdom
abstruse stillness redeems from penitence
as the reality insists upon truth of reason
Sorrow redounds deep in darkness in furrows
Humor blurs in dearth of rippling smiles
Sadness rides over the glow of ingenuity
Do you ever measure the distance of love?
What sorrow has befallen me
No sun to light my day,
These clouds yield only misery
While joy has fled away,
Across the lands where no one goes
And all do fear to tread,
Where only fear and silence grows
And dreams are lying dead.
Now waves of sadness and despair
Do swamp my aching heart,
For no one now does seem to care
My life's been torn apart,
Regrets I shall take to my grave
My tears forever flow,
For all my hopes I could not save
And on the winds did blow.
And yet no malice do I keep
Nor hate towards my love,
I'll dream of her within my sleep
While stars do shine above,
And hope that soon the dawn shall break
Then shine just like before,
For now I know each morn I wake
I'll miss her even more.
There was a man who walked with Sorrow
As though Sorrow were his love,
And he seemed to court her gently;
He was very well-behaved.
So, Sorrow came to live with him
In the twilight of his youth;
In the evenings she would hold him
Till he could not breathe.
'Sorrow, Sorrow, ' said he,
'This love is worth than life.'
Then he turned on the TV,
And surfed the violet wave.
Wouldst I live with tears of sorrow
fearful of what will come the morrow,
yearning for past times of glee
thinking back on thee.
Wouldst I live with sadness borrowed
from the losses of life's furrows,
walking forward in the past
lamenting what has gone so fast.
Wouldst I live for a rosy future
one that promises another way
that will make a brighter day,
and all the while I am right here
living in a state of fear.
Leaving past to memories locker
and the future not yet formed
I will not; cannot follow.
All that holds the gift of life
is present now and free from strife,
in this moment full of potential
is the answer existential.
Giving light and holding faith
never lacking; full of grace.
Looking back I loose my self
when all that's needed is belief
that this ever present moment
frees me from all the causes of my grief.
your sorrow and my sorrow
are not really ours to keep.
They belong to the earth,
to the heart of the earth
inside its beautiful bosom.
let us leave them just right
there, secure and honed.
we are leaving now to
another sphere, the one
that we see in our dreams
the more colored ones
feel the excitement, keep
yourself poised to something
more lasting more divine.
Look look look
It is spring
Greenery and flowers
It will bring
Daffodil and jasmine
Daisy and rose
Come lets all water them
With the garden hose
Oh no oh no oh no
The rose is no more pink
Oh no what have I done
I've watered them with ink!
The city has fallen: only the hills and rivers remain.
In Spring the streets were green with grass and trees.
Sorrowing over the times, the flowers are weeping.
The birds startled my heart in fear of departing.
The beacon fires were burning for three months,
A letter from home was worth ten thousand pieces of gold.
I scratch the scant hairs on my white head,
And vainly attempt to secure them with a hairpin.
A light exists in spring
Not present on the year
At any other period.
When March is scarcely here
A color stands abroad
On solitary hills
That science cannot overtake,
But human naturefeels.
It waits upon the lawn;
It shows the furthest tree
Upon the furthest slope we know;
It almost speaks to me.
Then, as horizons step,
Or noons report away,
Without the formula of sound,
It passes, and we stay:
A quality of loss
Affecting our content,
As trade had suddenly encroached
Upon a sacrament.
Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers to-day;
And give us not to think so far away
As the uncertain harvest; keep us here
All simply in the springing of the year.
Oh, give us pleasure in the orchard white,
Like nothing else by day, like ghosts by night;
And make us happy in the happy bees,
The swarm dilating round the perfect trees.
And make us happy in the darting bird
That suddenly above the bees is heard,
The meteor that thrusts in with needle bill,
And off a blossom in mid air stands still.
For this is love and nothing else is love,
The which it is reserved for God above
To sanctify to what far ends He will,
But which it only needs that we fulfil.
Ask not the cause why sullen spring
So long delays her flow'rs to bear;
Why warbling birds forget to sing,
And winter storms invert the year?
Chloris is gone; and Fate provides
To make it spring where she resides.
Chloris is gone, the cruel fair;
She cast not back a pitying eye:
But left her lover in despair,
To sigh, to languish, and to die:
Ah, how can those fair eyes endure
To give the wounds they will not cure!
Great god of Love, why hast thou made
A face that can all hearts command,
That all religions can invade,
And change the laws of ev'ry land?
Where thou hadst plac'd such pow'r before,
Thou shouldst have made her mercy more.
When Chloris to the temple comes,
Adoring crowds before her fall;
She can restore the dead from tombs,
And ev'ry life but mine recall.
I only am by love design'd
To be the victim for mankind.Credits and CopyrightTogether with the editors, the Department ofEnglish (University of Toronto), and the University of Toronto Press,the following individuals share copyright for the work that wentinto this edition:Screen Design (Electronic Edition): Sian Meikle (University ofToronto Library)Scanning: Sharine Leung (Centre for Computing in the Humanities)
Taut, thick fingers punch
the teeth of my typewriter.
Three words are down on paper
in capitals:
SPRING
SPRING
SPRING...
And me -- poet, proofreader,
the man who's forced to read
two thousand bad lines
every day
for two liras--
why,
since spring
has come, am I
still sitting here
like a ragged
black chair?
My head puts on its cap by itself,
I fly out of the printer's,
I'm on the street.
The lead dirt of the composing room
on my face,
seventy-five cents in my pocket.
SPRING IN THE AIR...
In the barbershops
they're powdering
the sallow cheeks
of the pariah of Publishers Row.
And in the store windows
three-color bookcovers
flash like sunstruck mirrors.
But me,
I don't have even a book of ABC's
that lives on this street
and carries my name on its door!
But what the hell...
I don't look back,
the lead dirt of the composing room
on my face,
seventy-five cents in my pocket,
SPRING IN THE AIR...
*
The piece got left in the middle.
It rained and swamped the lines.
But oh! what I would have written...
The starving writer sitting on his three-thousand-page
three-volume manuscript
wouldn't stare at the window of the kebab joint
but with his shining eyes would take
the Armenian bookseller's dark plump daughter by storm...
The sea would start smelling sweet.
Spring would rear up
like a sweating red mare
and, leaping onto its bare back,
I'd ride it
into the water.
Then
my typewriter would follow me
every step of the way.
I'd say:
"Oh, don't do it!
Leave me alone for an hour..."
then
my head-my hair failing out--
would shout into the distance:
"I AM IN LOVE..."
*
I'm twenty-seven,
she's seventeen.
"Blind Cupid,
lame Cupid,
both blind and lame Cupid
said, Love this girl,"
I was going to write;
I couldn't say it
but still can!
But if
it rained,
if the lines I wrote got swamped,
if I have twenty-five cents left in my pocket,
what the hell...
Hey, spring is here spring is here spring
spring is here!
My blood is budding inside me!
20 and 21 April 1929
Trans. by Randy Blasing and Mutlu Konuk (1993)
One asketh:
"Tell me, Myrson, tell me true:
What's the season pleaseth you?
Is it summer suits you best,
When from harvest toil we rest?
Is it autumn with its glory
Of all surfeited desires?
Is it winter, when with story
And with song we hug our fires?
Or is spring most fair to you--
Come, good Myrson, tell me true!"
Another answereth:
"What the gods in wisdom send
We should question not, my friend;
Yet, since you entreat of me,
I will answer reverently:
Me the summertime displeases,
For its sun is scorching hot;
Autumn brings such dire diseases
That perforce I like it not;
As for biting winter, oh!
How I hate its ice and snow!
"But, thrice welcome, kindly spring,
With the myriad gifts you bring!
Not too hot nor yet too cold,
Graciously your charms unfold--
Oh, your days are like the dreaming
Of those nights which love beseems,
And your nights have all the seeming
Of those days of golden dreams!
Heaven smiles down on earth, and then
Earth smiles up to heaven again!"
Last night beneath the mockery of the moon
I heard the sudden startled whisperings
Of wakened birds settling their restless wings;
The North-east brought his word of gladness, "Soon!"
And all the night with wonder was a-swoon.
A soul had breathed into long-dreaming things;
Some unseen hand hovered above the strings:
Some cosmic chord had set the earth in tune.
And when I rose I saw the Bay arrayed
In her grey robe against the coming heat.
A pulse awoke within the stirring street--
The wattle-gold upon the pavements thrown,
And through the quiet of the colonnade
The smoky perfume of boronia blown.
Before you thought of spring,
Except as a surmise,
You see, God bless his suddenness,
A fellow in the skies
Of independent hues,
A little weather-worn,
Inspiriting habiliments
Of indigo and brown.
With specimens of song,
As if for you to choose,
Discretion in the interval,
With gay delays he goes
To some superior tree
Without a single leaf,
And shouts for joy to nobody
But his seraphic self!
Sometimes we remember kisses,
Remember the dear heart-leap when they came:
Not always, but sometimes we remember
The kindness, the dumbness, the good flame
Of laughter and farewell.
Beside the road
Afar from those who said "Good-by" I write,
Far from my city task, my lawful load.
Sun in my face, wind beside my shoulder,
Streaming clouds, banners of new-born night
Enchant me now. The splendors growing bolder
Make bold my soul for some new wise delight.
I write the day's event, and quench my drouth,
Pausing beside the spring with happy mind.
And now I feel those kisses on my mouth,
Hers most of all, one little friend most kind.
At last the air fragrant, the bird's bubbling whistle
Succinct in the unknown unsettled trees:
O little Charles, beside the Georgian colleges
And milltown New England; at last the wind soft,
The sky unmoving, and the dead look
Of factory windows separate, at last,
From windows gray and wet:
for now the sunlight
Thrashes its wet shellac on brickwalk and gutter,
White splinters streak midmorning and doorstep,
Winter passes as the lighted streetcar
Moves at midnight, one scene of the past,
Droll and unreal, stiff, stilted and hooded.
The Silver Birch is a dainty lady,
She wears a satin gown;
The elm tree makes the old churchyard shady,
She will not live in town.
The English oak is a sturdy fellow,
He gets his green coat late;
The willow is smart in a suit of yellow
While brown the beech trees wait.
Such a gay green gown God gives the larches-
As green as he is good!
The hazels hold up their arms for arches,
When spring rides through the wood.
The chestnut’s proud, and the lilac’s pretty,
The poplar’s gentle and tall,
But the plane tree’s kind to the poor dull city-
I love him best of all!
I wish it were spring in the world.
Let it be spring!
Come, bubbling, surging tide of sap!
Come, rush of creation!
Come, life! surge through this mass of mortification!
Come, sweep away these exquisite, ghastly first-flowers,
which are rather last-flowers!
Come, thaw down their cool portentousness, dissolve them:
snowdrops, straight, death-veined exhalations of white and purple crocuses,
flowers of the penumbra, issue of corruption, nourished in mortification,
jets of exquisite finality;
Come, spring, make havoc of them!
I trample on the snowdrops, it gives me pleasure to tread down the jonquils,
to destroy the chill Lent lilies;
for I am sick of them, their faint-bloodedness,
slow-blooded, icy-fleshed, portentous.
I want the fine, kindling wine-sap of spring,
gold, and of inconceivably fine, quintessential brightness,
rare almost as beams, yet overwhelmingly potent,
strong like the greatest force of world-balancing.
This is the same that picks up the harvest of wheat
and rocks it, tons of grain, on the ripening wind;
the same that dangles the globe-shaped pleiads of fruit
temptingly in mid-air, between a playful thumb and finger;
oh, and suddenly, from out of nowhere, whirls the pear-bloom,
upon us, and apple- and almond- and apricot- and quince-blossom,
storms and cumulus clouds of all imaginable blossom
about our bewildered faces,
though we do not worship.
I wish it were spring
cunningly blowing on the fallen sparks, odds and ends of the old, scattered fire,
and kindling shapely little conflagrations
curious long-legged foals, and wide-eared calves, and naked sparrow-bubs.
I wish that spring
would start the thundering traffic of feet
new feet on the earth, beating with impatience.
I wish it were spring, thundering
delicate, tender spring.
I wish these brittle, frost-lovely flowers of passionate, mysterious corruption
were not yet to come still more from the still-flickering discontent.
Oh, in the spring, the bluebell bows him down for very exuberance,
exulting with secret warm excess,
bowed down with his inner magnificence!
Oh, yes, the gush of spring is strong enough
to toss the globe of earth like a ball on a water-jet
dancing sportfully;
as you see a tiny celluloid ball tossing on a squirt of water
for men to shoot at, penny-a-time, in a booth at a fair.
The gush of spring is strong enough
to play with the globe of earth like a ball on a fountain;
At the same time it opens the tiny hands of the hazel
with such infinite patience.
The power of the rising, golden, all-creative sap could take the earth
and heave it off among the stars, into the invisible;
the same sets the throstle at sunset on a bough
singing against the blackbird;
comes out in the hesitating tremor of the primrose,
and betrays its candour in the round white strawberry flower,
is dignified in the foxglove, like a Red-Indian brave.
Ah come, come quickly, spring!
come and lift us towards our culmination, we myriads;
we who have never flowered, like patient cactuses.
Come and lift us to our end, to blossom, bring us to our summer
we who are winter-weary in the winter of the of the world.
Come making the chaffinch nests hollow and cosy,
come and soften the willow buds till they are puffed and furred,
then blow them over with gold.
Coma and cajole the gawky colt’s-foot flowers.
Come quickly, and vindicate us.
against too much death.
Come quickly, and stir the rotten globe of the world from within,
burst it with germination, with world anew.
Come now, to us, your adherents, who cannot flower from the ice.
All the world gleams with the lilies of death the Unconquerable,
but come, give us our turn.
Enough of the virgins and lilies, of passionate, suffocating perfume of corruption,
no more narcissus perfume, lily harlots, the blades of sensation
piercing the flesh to blossom of death.
Have done, have done with this shuddering, delicious business
of thrilling ruin in the flesh, of pungent passion, of rare, death-edged ecstasy.
Give us our turn, give us a chance, let our hour strike,
O soon, soon!
Let the darkness turn violet with rich dawn.
Let the darkness be warmed, warmed through to a ruddy violet,
incipient purpling towards summer in the world of the heart of man.
Are the violets already here!
Show me! I tremble so much to hear it, that even now
on the threshold of spring, I fear I shall die.
Show me the violets that are out.
Oh, if it be true, and the living darkness of the blood of man is purpling with violets,
if the violets are coming out from under the rack of men, winter-rotten and fallen,
we shall have spring.
Pray not to die on this Pisgah blossoming with violets.
Pray to live through.
If you catch a whiff of violets from the darkness of the shadow of man
it will be spring in the world,
it will be spring in the world of the living;
wonderment organising itself, heralding itself with the violets,
stirring of new seasons.
Ah, do not let me die on the brink of such anticipation!
Worse, let me not deceive myself.
My mother
Foresaw deaths
And walked among
Chrysanthemums,
Winecolored,
Withe red rose,
The earthy blossoms.
My very breath
Disowned
In nights of study,
And page by page
I came on spring.
The rats run on the roof,
These words come hard---
Sadder than cockcrow
In a dreamless, earthen sleep.
The Christ, eternal
In the scented cold; my love,
Her hand on the sill
White, as if out of earth;
And spring, the sleep of the dead.
Harshness vanished. A sudden softness
has replaced the meadows' wintry grey.
Little rivulets of water changed
their singing accents. Tendernesses,
hesitantly, reach toward the earth
from space, and country lanes are showing
these unexpected subtle risings
that find expression in the empty trees.
Face of the spring moon--
about twelve years old,
I'd say.
Translated by Robert Hass
Fled are the frosts, and now the fields appear
Reclothed in fresh and verdant diaper;
Thaw'd are the snows; and now the lusty Spring
Gives to each mead a neat enamelling;
The palms put forth their gems, and every tree
Now swaggers in her leafy gallantry.
The while the Daulian minstrel sweetly sings
With warbling notes her Terean sufferings.
--What gentle winds perspire!  as if here
Never had been the northern plunderer
To strip the trees and fields, to their distress,
Leaving them to a pitied nakedness.
And look how when a frantic storm doth tear
A stubborn oak or holm, long growing there,--
But lull'd to calmness, then succeeds a breeze
That scarcely stirs the nodding leaves of trees;
So when this war, which tempest-like doth spoil
Our salt, our corn, our honey, wine, and oil,
Falls to a temper, and doth mildly cast
His inconsiderate frenzy off, at last,
The gentle dove may, when these turmoils cease,
Bring in her bill, once more, the branch of Peace.
First day of spring--
I keep thinking about
the end of autumn.
Translated by Robert Hass
FLOWER god, god of the spring, beautiful, bountiful,
Cold-dyed shield in the sky, lover of versicles,
Here I wander in April
Cold, grey-headed; and still to my
Heart, Spring comes with a bound, Spring the deliverer,
Spring, song-leader in woods, chorally resonant;
Spring, flower-planter in meadows,
Child-conductor in willowy
Fields deep dotted with bloom, daisies and crocuses:
Here that child from his heart drinks of eternity:
O child, happy are children!
She still smiles on their innocence,
She, dear mother in God, fostering violets,
Fills earth full of her scents, voices and violins:
Thus one cunning in music
Wakes old chords in the memory:
Thus fair earth in the Spring leads her performances.
One more touch of the bow, smell of the virginal
Green - one more, and my bosom
Feels new life with an ecstasy.
In the glad springtime when leaves were green,
O merrily the throstle sings!
I sought, amid the tangled sheen,
Love whom mine eyes had never seen,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
Between the blossoms red and white,
O merrily the throstle sings!
My love first came into my sight,
O perfect vision of delight,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
The yellow apples glowed like fire,
O merrily the throstle sings!
O Love too great for lip or lyre,
Blown rose of love and of desire,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
But now with snow the tree is grey,
Ah, sadly now the throstle sings!
My love is dead: ah! well-a-day,
See at her silent feet I lay
A dove with broken wings!
Ah, Love! ah, Love! that thou wert slain -
Fond Dove, fond Dove return again!
O
Out of a bed of love
When that immortal hospital made one more moove to soothe
The curless counted body,
And ruin and his causes
Over the barbed and shooting sea assumed an army
And swept into our wounds and houses,
I climb to greet the war in which I have no heart but only
That one dark I owe my light,
Call for confessor and wiser mirror but there is none
To glow after the god stoning night
And I am struck as lonely as a holy marker by the sun
No
Praise that the spring time is all
Gabriel and radiant shrubbery as the morning grows joyful
Out of the woebegone pyre
And the multitude's sultry tear turns cool on the weeping wall,
My arising prodgidal
Sun the father his quiver full of the infants of pure fire,
But blessed be hail and upheaval
That uncalm still it is sure alone to stand and sing
Alone in the husk of man's home
And the mother and toppling house of the holy spring,
If only for a last time.
Here the white-ray'd anemone is born,
Wood-sorrel, and the varnish'd buttercup;
And primrose in its purfled green swathed up,
Pallid and sweet round every budding thorn,
Gray ash, and beech with rusty leaves outworn.
Here, too the darting linnet hath her nest
In the blue-lustred holly, never shorn,
Whose partner cheers her little brooding breast,
Piping from some near bough. O simple song!
O cistern deep of that harmonious rillet,
And these fair juicy stems that climb and throng
The vernal world, and unexhausted seas
Of flowing life, and soul that asks to fill it,
Each and all of these,--and more, and more than these!
O Spring, I know thee! Seek for sweet surprise
In the young children's eyes.
But I have learnt the years, and know the yet
Leaf-folded violet.
Mine ear, awake to silence, can foretell
The cuckoo's fitful bell.
I wander in a gray time that encloses
June and the wild hedge-roses.
A year's procession of the flowers doth pass
My feet, along the grass.
And all you sweet birds silent yet, I know
The notes that stir you so,
Your songs yet half devised in the dim dear
Beginnings of the year.
In these young days you meditate your part;
I have it all by heart.
I know the secrets of the seeds of flowers
Hidden and warm with showers,
And how, in kindling Spring, the cuckoo shall
Alter his interval.
But not a flower or song I ponder is
My own, but memory's.
I shall be silent in those days desired
Before a world inspired.
O dear brown birds, compose your old song-phrases,
Earth, thy familiar daisies.
The poet mused upon the dusky height,
Between two stars towards night,
His purpose in his heart. I watched, a space,
The meaning of his face:
There was the secret, fled from earth and skies,
Hid in his gray young eyes.
My heart and all the Summer wait his choice,
And wonder for his voice.
Who shall foretell his songs, and who aspire
But to divine his lyre?
Sweet earth, we know thy dimmest mysteries,
But he is lord of his.
In spring and summer winds may blow,
And rains fall after, hard and fast;
The tender leaves, if beaten low,
Shine but the more for shower and blast
But when their fated hour arrives,
When reapers long have left the field,
When maidens rifle turn'd-up hives,
And their last juice fresh apples yield,
A leaf perhaps may still remain
Upon some solitary tree,
Spite of the wind and of the rain . . .
A thing you heed not if you see.
At last it falls. Who cares? Not one:
And yet no power on earth can ever
Replace the fallen leaf upon
Its spray, so easy to dissever.
If such be love, I dare not say.
Friendship is such, too well I know:
I have enjoyed my summer day;
'Tis past; my leaf now lies below.
In spring rain
a pretty girl
yawning.
Translated by Robert Hass
IN the green and gallant Spring,
Love and the lyre I thought to sing,
And kisses sweet to give and take
By the flowery hawthorn brake.
Now is russet Autumn here,
Death and the grave and winter drear,
And I must ponder here aloof
While the rain is on the roof.
In the spring twilight
the full moon is shining:
Girls take their places
as though around an altar
I so liked Spring last year
Because you were here;-
The thrushes too-
Because it was these you so liked to hear-
I so liked you.
This year's a different thing,-
I'll not think of you.
But I'll like the Spring because it is simply spring
As the thrushes do.
It is spring, And the ledger is opened again.
From the abyss where they were frozen,
those days suddenly return, those days
that passed away from your lips, that died
with all our kisses, unaccounted.
The roses return: they are your fragrance;
they are the blood of your lovers.
Sorrow returns. I go through my pain
and the agony of friends still lost in the memory
of moon-silver arms, the caresses of vanished women.
I go through page after page. There are no answers,
and spring has come once again asking
the same questions, reopening account after account.
Now Nature hangs her mantle green
On every blooming tree,
And spreads her sheets o' daises white
Out o'er the grassy lea
Now Pheebus cheers the crystal streams,
And glads the azure skies;
But nought can glad the weary wight
That fast in durance lies.
Now laverocks wake the merry morn
Aloft on dewy wing;
The merle, in his noontide bow'r,
Makes woodland echoes ring;
The mavis wild ai' mony a note,
Sings drowsy day to reast
In love and freedom they rejoice,
Wi' care nor thrall opprest.
Now blooms the lily by the bank,
The primrose down the brae;
The hawthorn's budding in the glen,
And milk-white is the slae:
The meanest hind in fair Scotland
May rove their sweets amang;
But I, the Queen of a' Scotland,
Maun lie in prison strang.
I was the Queen o' bonie France,
Where happy I hae been;
Fu' lightly raise I in the morn,
As blythe lay down at e'en:
And I'm the sov'reign of Scotland,
And mony a traitor there;
Yet here I lie in foreign bands,
And never-ending care.
But as for thee, thou false woman,
My sister and my fae,
Grim Vengeance yet shall whet a sword
That thro' thy soul shall gae;
The weeping blood in woman's breast
Was never known to thee;
Nor th' balm that draps on wounds of woe
Frae woman's pitying e'e.
My son! my son! may kinder stars
Upon thy fortune shine;
And may those pleasures gild thy reign,
That ne'er wad blink on mine!
God keep thee frae my mother's faes,
Or turn their hearts to thee:
And where thou meet'st thy mother's friend,
Remember him for me!
O! soon, to me, may Summer suns
Nae mair light up the morn!
Nae mair to me the Autumn winds
Wave o'er the yellow corn?
And, in the narrow house of death,
Let Winter round me rave;
And the next flow'rs that deck the Spring,
Bloom on my peaceful grave!
I
Ah, who will tell me, in these leaden days,
Why the sweet Spring delays,
And where she hides, -- the dear desire
Of every heart that longs
For bloom, and fragrance, and the ruby fire
Of maple-buds along the misty hills,
And that immortal call which fills
The waiting wood with songs?
The snow-drops came so long ago,
It seemed that Spring was near!
But then returned the snow
With biting winds, and all the earth grew sere,
And sullen clouds drooped low
To veil the sadness of a hope deferred:
Then rain, rain, rain, incessant rain
Beat on the window-pane,
Through which I watched the solitary bird
That braved the tempest, buffeted and tossed,
With rumpled feathers, down the wind again.
Oh, were the seeds all lost
When winter laid the wild flowers in their tomb?
I searched their haunts in vain
For blue hepaticas, and trilliums white,
And trailing arbutus, the Spring's delight,
Starring the withered leaves with rosy bloom.
The woods were bare: and every night the frost
To all my longings spoke a silent nay,
And told me Spring was far and far away.
Even the robins were too cold to sing,
Except a broken and discouraged note, --
Only the tuneful sparrow, on whose throat
Music has put her triple finger-print,
Lifted his head and sang my heart a hint, --
"Wait, wait, wait! oh, wait a while for Spring!"
II
But now, Carina, what divine amends
For all delay! What sweetness treasured up,
What wine of joy that blends
A hundred flavours in a single cup,
Is poured into this perfect day!
For look, sweet heart, here are the early flowers,
That lingered on their way,
Thronging in haste to kiss the feet of May,
And mingled with the bloom of later hours, --
Anemonies and cinque-foils, violets blue
And white, and iris richly gleaming through
The grasses of the meadow, and a blaze
Of butter-cups and daisies in the field,
Filling the air with praise,
As if a silver chime of bells had pealed!
The frozen songs within the breast
Of silent birds that hid in leafless woods,
Melt into rippling floods
Of gladness unrepressed.
Now oriole and blue-bird, thrush and lark,
Warbler and wren and vireo,
Confuse their music; for the living spark
Of Love has touched the fuel of desire,
And every heart leaps up in singing fire.
It seems as if the land
Were breathing deep beneath the sun's caress,
Trembling with tenderness,
While all the woods expand,
In shimmering clouds of rose and gold and green,
To veil the joys too sacred to be seen.
III
Come, put your hand in mine,
True love, long sought and found at last,
And lead me deep into the Spring divine
That makes amends for all the wintry past.
For all the flowers and songs I feared to miss
Arrive with you;
And in the lingering pressure of your kiss
My dreams come true;
And in the promise of your generous eyes
I read the mystic sign
Of joy more perfect made
Because so long delayed,
And bliss enhanced by rapture of surprise.
Ah, think not early love alone is strong;
He loveth best whose heart has learned to wait:
Dear messenger of Spring that tarried long,
You're doubly dear because you come so late.
I HEARD a thousand blended notes,
While in a grove I sate reclined,
In that sweet mood when pleasant thoughts
Bring sad thoughts to the mind.
To her fair works did Nature link
The human soul that through me ran;
And much it grieved my heart to think
What man has made of man.
Through primrose tufts, in that green bower,
The periwinkle trailed its wreaths;
And 'tis my faith that every flower
Enjoys the air it breathes.
The birds around me hopped and played,
Their thoughts I cannot measure:---
But the least motion which they made,
It seemed a thrill of pleasure.
The budding twigs spread out their fan,
To catch the breezy air;
And I must think, do all I can,
That there was pleasure there.
If this belief from heaven be sent,
If such be Nature's holy plan,
Have I not reason to lament
What man has made of man?
Cloud-topped and splendid, dominating all
The little lesser hills which compass thee,
Thou standest, bright with April's buoyancy,
Yet holding Winter in some shaded wall
Of stern, steep rock; and startled by the call
Of Spring, thy trees flush with expectancy
And cast a cloud of crimson, silently,
Above thy snowy crevices where fall
Pale shrivelled oak leaves, while the snow beneath
Melts at their phantom touch. Another year
Is quick with import. Such each year has been.
Unmoved thou watchest all, and all bequeath
Some jewel to thy diadem of power,
Thou pledge of greater majesty unseen.
THE bed of flowers
Loosens amain,
The beauteous snowdrops
Droop o'er the plain.
The crocus opens
Its glowing bud,
Like emeralds others,
Others, like blood.
With saucy gesture
Primroses flare,
And roguish violets,
Hidden with care;
And whatsoever
There stirs and strives,
The Spring's contented,
If works and thrives.
'Mongst all the blossoms
That fairest are,
My sweetheart's sweetness
Is sweetest far;
Upon me ever
Her glances light,
My song they waken,
My words make bright,
An ever open
And blooming mind,
In sport, unsullied,
In earnest, kind.
Though roses and lilies
By Summer are brought,
Against my sweetheart
Prevails he nought.
I.
Moonlight silvers the tops of trees,
Moonlight whitens the lilac shadowed wall
And through the evening fall,
Clearly, as if through enchanted seas,
Footsteps passing, an infinite distance away,
In another world and another day.
Moonlight turns the purple lilacs blue,
Moonlight leaves the fountain hoar and old,
And the boughs of elms grow green and cold,
Our footsteps echo on gleaming stones,
The leaves are stirred to a jargon of muted tones.
This is the night we have kept, you say:
This is the moonlit night that will never die.
Through the grey streets our memories retain
Let us go back again.
II.
Mist goes up from the river to dim the stars,
The river is black and cold; so let us dance
To flare of horns, and clang of cymbals and drums;
And strew the glimmering floor with roses,
And remember, while the rich music yawns and closes,
With a luxury of pain, how silence comes.
Yes, we loved each other, long ago;
We moved like wind to a music's ebb and flow.
At a phrase from violins you closed your eyes,
And smiled, and let me lead you how young we were!
Your hair, upon that music, seemed to stir.
Let us return there, let us return, you and I;
Through changeless streets our memories retain
Let us go back again.
III.
Mist goes up from the rain steeped earth, and clings
Ghostly with lamplight among drenched maple trees.
We walk in silence and see how the lamplight flings
Fans of shadow upon it the music's mournful pleas
Die out behind us, the door is closed at last,
A net of silver silence is softly cast
Over our thought slowly we walk,
Quietly with delicious pause, we talk,
Of foolish trivial things; of life and death,
Time, and forgetfulness, and dust and truth;
Lilacs and youth.
You laugh, I hear the after taken breath,
You darken your eyes and turn away your head
At something I have said
Some intuition that flew too deep,
And struck a plageant chord.
Tonight, tonight you will remember it as you fall asleep,
Your dream will suddenly blossom with sharp delight,
Goodnight! You say.
The leaves of the lilac dip and sway;
The purple spikes of bloom
Nod their sweetness upon us, lift again,
Your white face turns, I am caught with pain
And silence descends, and dripping of dew from eaves,
And jeweled points of leaves.
IV.
I walk in a pleasure of sorrow along the street
And try to remember you; slow drops patter;
Water upon the lilacs has made them sweet;
I brush them with my sleeve, the cool drops scatter;
And suddenly I laugh and stand and listen
As if another had laughed a gust
Rustles the leaves, the wet spikes glisten;
And it seems as though it were you who had shaken the bough,
And spilled the fragrance I pursue your face again,
It grows more vague and lovely, it eludes me now.
I remember that you are gone, and drown in pain.
Something there was I said to you I recall,
Something just as the music seemed to fall
That made you laugh, and burns me still with pleasure.
What were those words the words like dripping fire?
I remember them now, and in sweet leisure
Rehearse the scene, more exquisite than before,
And you more beautiful, and I more wise.
Lilacs and spring, and night, and your clear eyes,
And you, in white, by the darkness of a door:
These things, like voices weaving to richest music,
Flow and fall in the cool night of my mind,
I pursue your ghost among green leaves that are ghostly,
I pursue you, but cannot find.
And suddenly, with a pang that is sweetest of all,
I become aware that I cannot remember you;
The ghost I knew
Has silently plunged in shadows, shadows that stream and fall.
V.
Let us go in and dance once more
On the dream's glimmering floor,
Beneath the balcony festooned with roses.
Let us go in and dance once more.
The door behind us closes
Against an evening purple with stars and mist.
Let us go in and keep our tryst
With music and white roses, and spin around
In swirls of sound.
Do you foresee me, married and grown old?
And you, who smile about you at this room,
Is it foretold
That you must step from tumult into gloom,
Forget me, love another?
No, you are Cleopatra, fiercely young,
Laughing upon the topmost stair of night;
Roses upon the desert must be flung;
Above us, light by light,
Weaves the delirious darkness, petal fall,
And music breaks in waves on the pillared wall;
And you are Cleopatra, and do not care.
And so, in memory, you will always be
Young and foolish, a thing of dream and mist;
And so, perhaps when all is disillusioned,
And eternal spring returns once more,
Bringing a ghost of lovelier springs remembered,
You will remember me.
VI.
Yet when we meet we seem in silence to say,
Pretending serene forgetfulness of our youth,
"Do you remember but then why should you remember!
Do you remember a certain day,
Or evening rather, spring evening long ago,
We talked of death, and love, and time, and truth,
And said such wise things, things that amused us so
How foolish we were, who thought ourselves so wise!"
And then we laugh, with shadows in our eyes.
Now spring has clad the grove in green,
And strew'd the lea wi' flowers;
The furrow'd, waving corn is seen
Rejoice in fostering showers:
While ilka thing in nature join
Their sorrows to forego,
O why thus all alone are mine
The weary steps of woe?
The trout in yonder wimpling burn
That glides, a silver dart,
And safe beneath the shady thorn
Defies the angler's art --
My life was ance that careless stream,
That wanton trout was I;
But love, wi' unrelenting beam,
Has scorch'd my fountains dry.
The little flow'ret's peaceful lot,
In yonder cliff that grows,
Which, save the linnet's flight, I wot,
Nae ruder visit knows,
Was mine; till love has o'er me past,
And blighted a' my bloom,
And now beneath the with'ring blast
My youth and joy consume.
The waken'd lav'rock warbling springs,
And climbs the early sky,
Winnowing blythe her dewy wings
In morning's rosy eye:
As little reckt I sorrow's power,
Until the flowery snare
O' witching love, in luckless hour,
Made me the thrall o' care.
O had my fate been Greenland snows,
Or Afric's burning zone,
Wi' man and nature leagu'd my foes,
So Peggy ne'er I'd known!
The wretch whase doom is, "hope nae mair,"
What tongue his woes can tell!
Within whase bosom, save despair,
Nae kinder spirits dwell.
Lo! where the rosy-bosom'd Hours,
Fair Venus' train appear,
Disclose the long-expecting flowers,
And wake the purple year!
The Attic warbler pours her throat,
Responsive to the cuckoo's note,
The untaught harmony of spring:
While whisp'ring pleasure as they fly,
Cool zephyrs thro' the clear blue sky
Their gather'd fragrance fling.
Where'er the oak's thick branches stretch
A broader, browner shade;
Where'er the rude and moss-grown beech
O'er-canopies the glade,
Beside some water's rushy brink
With me the Muse shall sit, and think
(At ease reclin'd in rustic state)
How vain the ardour of the crowd,
How low, how little are the proud,
How indigent the great!
Still is the toiling hand of Care:
The panting herds repose:
Yet hark, how thro' the peopled air
The busy murmur glows!
The insect youth are on the wing,
Eager to taste the honied spring,
And float amid the liquid noon:
Some lightly o'er the current skim,
Some show their gaily-gilded trim
Quick-glancing to the sun.
To Contemplation's sober eye
Such is the race of man:
And they that creep, and they that fly,
Shall end where they began.
Alike the busy and the gay
But flutter thro' life's little day,
In fortune's varying colours drest:
Brush'd by the hand of rough Mischance,
Or chill'd by age, their airy dance
They leave, in dust to rest.
Methinks I hear in accents low
The sportive kind reply:
Poor moralist! and what art thou?
A solitary fly!
Thy joys no glitt'ring female meets,
No hive hast thou of hoarded sweets,
No painted plumage to display:
On hasty wings thy youth is flown;
Thy sun is set, thy spring is gone--
We frolic, while 'tis May.
O HEART of Spring!
Spirit of light and love and joyous day,
So soon to faint beneath the fiery Summer:
Still smiles the Earth, eager for thee alway:
Welcome art thou, soever short thy stay,
Thou bold, thou blithe newcomer!
Whither, O whither this thy journeying,
O heart of Spring?
O heart of Spring!
After the stormy days of Winter’s reign,
When the keen winds their last lament are sighing,
The Sun shall raise thee up to life again:
In thy dim death thou shalt not suffer pain:
Surely thou dost not fear this quiet dying?
Whither, O whither this thy journeying,
O heart of Spring?
O heart of Spring!
Youth’s emblem, ancient and unchanging light,
Uncomprehended, unconsumed, still burning:
Oh that we could, as thou, rise from the night
To find a world of blossoms lilac-white,
And long-winged swallows unafraid returning…
Whither, O whither this thy journeying,
O heart of Spring?
The city's all a-shining
Beneath a fickle sun,
A gay young wind's a-blowing,
The little shower is done.
But the rain-drops still are clinging
And falling one by one --
Oh it's Paris, it's Paris,
And spring-time has begun.
I know the Bois is twinkling
In a sort of hazy sheen,
And down the Champs the gray old arch
Stands cold and still between.
But the walk is flecked with sunlight
Where the great acacias lean,
Oh it's Paris, it's Paris,
And the leaves are growing green.
The sun's gone in, the sparkle's dead,
There falls a dash of rain,
But who would care when such an air
Comes blowing up the Seine?
And still Ninette sits sewing
Beside her window-pane,
When it's Paris, it's Paris,
And spring-time's come again.
DAYS full of rapture,
Are ye renew'd ?--
Smile in the sunlight
Mountain and wood?
Streams richer laden
Flow through the dale,
Are these the meadows?
Is this the vale?
Coolness cerulean!
Heaven and height!
Fish crowd the ocean,
Golden and bright.
Birds of gay plumage
Sport in the grove,
Heavenly numbers
Singing above.
Under the verdure's
Vigorous bloom,
Bees, softly bumming,
Juices consume.
Gentle disturbance
Quivers in air,
Sleep-causing fragrance,
Motion so fair.
Soon with more power
Rises the breeze,
Then in a moment
Dies in the trees.
But to the bosom
Comes it again.
Aid me, ye Muses,
Bliss to sustain!
Say what has happen'd
Since yester e'en?
Oh, ye fair sisters,
Her I have seen!
"Oh, dear, with the just unfolded tender leaflets of Mango trees as his incisive arrows, and with shining strings of honeybees as his bowstring, the assailant named Vasanta came very nigh, to afflict the hearts of those that are fully engaged in affairs of lovemaking...
"Oh, dear, in Vasanta, Spring, trees are with flowers and waters are with lotuses, hence the breezes are agreeably fragrant with the fragrance of those flowers, thereby the eventides are comfortable and even the daytimes are pleasant with those fragrant breezes, thereby the women are with concupiscence, thus everything is highly pleasing...
"This Spring season endows prosperity to waters of swimming pools, and to moonshine, for their water or shine is pleasurable, and even to mango trees, as their flowers are just flowered, more so, to the bejewelled girdle strings of women, for their wearing is neither cumbersome nor irksome in this season, thus it endows prosperity to womenfolk of age, as they enjoy in wearing them, thus they too, become enjoyable, these days...
"These days the flirtatious women are adorning their roundish behinds with silk cloths that are dyed with Kusumbha flower's reddish dye, and their bosomy busts with thin silks that are dyed with ocherish and reddish colours, for thinness and silkiness are agreeable in this thinnish ambience...
"The womenfolk of age are now decorating their temples with just unfolded new whitish flowers of Karnikara, and with new and reddish Ashoka flowers and with whitish jasmines flowers in their blackish hair-locks that are swaying, thus unfolded is the beauty of these women, with the flourishing resplendence of these newly unfolded flowers...
"The bosoms of women with burly rumps, whose hearts are now flurried by the Love-god, are now sharing pearly pendants that are wetted with white sandal-paste that is bedaubed on their busts, and their biceps with circlets of bicep-lets, and their hiplines with the strings of cinctures, that are till recently unbearably coldish to touch... thus, the touch of season is romantic...
"The golden lotuses like faces of flirtatious women are tattooed with erasable foliage tattoos with black Kasturi lines, and in those designs sweat-drops are now percolating, with them those faces are delightfully beautified as gem-studded jewellery, interspersed with pearls...
"Now the limbs of womenfolk are flustered by the Love-god, thus they are panting for their need-fulfilment, hence they are now loosening the fastenings of their undergarments, since spring fever makes them sultrily fervent, thus they are enamoured of their lovers, who are tarrying at their nearby...
"The Love-god is making the limbs of sybaritic women as thinnish, palish and lethargic, and tending to yawn time and again, and with these syndromes the bodies of women are becoming restless in the spring fever, with an air of enchantment...
"Now the Love-god is diversely apparent in women, who are jaded out by hard drinks, for their eyes are fluttery, their cheeks are whitely, their bosoms are stony, their waists are slimly, and their behinds are sturdy... thus these features are the evidences for their seasonal infatuation with Him...
"Advent to spring Love-god makes the limbs of womenfolk sluggishly dizzy with sleepiness, He makes their speech a little teeter-tottering with sensualities, and He also makes their looks aslant with the knitting and unknitting of their eyebrows, seeking vehement sensual pleasures...
"The frolicsome and lustful women that are with faineance are bedaubing their whitish bosoms with sandal-paste, in which well kneaded are the fragrant seeds of Priyangu, yellowish turmeric, saffron and musk, to relieve themselves of spring fever...
"These days the people, whose limbs are wearied down with their desire induced ebullience, are wearing thinnish cloths, that are fumigated with fragrant aloe vera resin and dyed in the colour of reddish lac resin, quickly discarding their coarse clothing, for this season is neither coarse nor crude...
"The passionate male koel, black singing bird, on savouring the invigorative essence of just grown flowers of Mango trees, is gladdened and passionately kissing his love, so also this honeybee, abiding in lotuses, and savouring their nectar, this too is passionately mating with his love to her complaisance, sequestered in the petals of lotuses...
"Delightful are the branches of mango trees that are laden with bunches of coppery tender leaves, and with just flowered flowers, and with their heads a little bent down, for they simile with the bashful women, whose heads are with flowery hairdos and coppery half-veils, and a little bent down and swaying in lustiness, like mango treetops that are gently swaying, swayed by the gentle breezes of this season, and on identifying themselves with those mango trees, the womenfolk is rendered muchly overenthusiastic for love, in this spring time...
"All-over adorned are those Ashoka trees with bunches of reddish folioles, and reddish flowers that resemble the hue of red corals, and when the new entrants to adulthood are observing those unfolded red flowers, those Ashoka trees are making them agonised, for unfulfilled is their new longing for a newish love...
"The charming flowers of mango trees are with delightful thickish buds, and they are overly swilled by tipsy honeybees, and slow breezes are flurrying and tilting their delicate leaflets, thus when lovelorn youngsters observe them, their hearts are quickly ecstasized by those mango trees...
"Oh, dear, the mien of this season is akin to the facial resplendence of ladyloves, with the utmost beauty of the clusters of flowers of Kuravaka plants that are uprisen in this season, and if this is observed by any good-hearted person, won't his heart be agonised, indeed, struck by the arrow of Love-god?
"The ruddy flowers in springtime are sprung by the winds simile with the reddy flames that are just now set to flame, and everywhere the earth is overspread with such brakes of Kimshuka trees, and presently when their treetops are bent under the weight of those red flowers, whole of this earth similes with a new bride, shining forth in her new bridal redly costume, and her head a little bent under the half-veil of that costume...
"Aren't the youthful hearts of youthful lovers that are hidden in the hearts of their pretty faced ladyloves unsplit by these Kimshuka flowers, that are in shine with the reddish bills of parrots... aren't they already and definitely burnt by the flame-like redly Karnikaara flowers... then why for this Kokila, the black singing bird, is again gnawing away those hearts, with its gnawingly melodious singing...
"Passion is surging out in male Kokila-s, singing birds, as they obtained jollity in this springtime on chewing mango flowers, thus they are singing inexplicably, and the honeybees, when they are drunk with the flowery nectar of those flowers, they are also droning hums murmuringly as their drinking song, and with these hums and drones the hearts of new brides are flustered in a trice, even if they are in the service of their in-laws, where certain docility and prudishness are in demand...
"On the departure of mist-fall in springtime, the propitious breeze is breezing pleasantly to undulate the flowered branches of Mango trees, and to transmit the singings of Kokila-s in all directions, thereby to steal the hearts of humans, who can neither be blatant nor silent, of their longings...
"These days the pleasure gardens are brightened up with whitely jasmines, thus they simile with the toothy grins of sprightly brides, and hence they are heart-stealing, and these gardens are now stealing the hearts of saints or sages that have neutralised their materialistic indulgences long back, as such, these gardens must have stolen the hearts of youths, which are already tainted with seasonal sensualities...
"This Madhu month, Chaitra, nectarean month at the end of springtime, is forcefully stealing away the hearts of people, for the womenfolk, whose bodies are slenderised by the pride of Love-god, is eyeful with their golden strings of girdle that are pensile onto their hiplines, and their bosoms are clung by pendulous pearly pendants, besides, earful are the singings of Kokila-s and the humming of honeybees...
"These interiors of visible horizon are comprised of mountains that are adorned with divers and delightful flowery trees, and the areas of those mountainsides are hurly-burly with the singings of Kokila-s, and the masses of their rock faces are hemmed in and enwrapped with fragrant mountainy moss, that comes out now when those rocks were fissured during last summer, to see such an environ, all the people are rejoiced...
"On seeing a flowered mango tree, the frame of mind of any itinerant is overly woebegone, for he is dissociated with his ladylove, thus he shuts his eyes unable to behold that ladylike mango tree with her hairdo overlaid with flowers, and obstructs his nose, for the fragrance of this ladylike mango tree is akin to his ladylove, thus he goes into a state of woefulness, and even he bewails and shrieks loudly... thus pitiless is this season, Vasanta, Spring for singletons...
"Delightful is this flowery month with the racketing of lusty honeybees and Kokila-s around, and with flowered mango trees that fruit sweet mangos, and with Karniakra flowers, and each of these is becoming as though an acute of arrow of Love-god, that ecstasies and even cleaves the hearts of self-respectful women, who cannot explicitly explain their pangs for love, nor can suffer them, implicitly...
"Whose best arrow is the delightful cluster of mango flowers, whose bow is the Kimshuka flower, whose bowstring is the beeline, whose silvery parasol is the immaculate silvern moon, whose ruttish elephant for ride is the rutted breeze from Mt. Malaya, that waft the scent of sandalwood, which will be rutting, and whose panegyrists are the singing birds, namely Kokila-s, and such as he is, he that vanquisher of worlds, that formless Love-god, pairing up with his friend, namely Vasanta, the Spring season, that Love-god lavishes serendipities on you all, generously...
Again rejoicing nature sees
Her robe assume its vernal hues,
Her leafy looks wave in the breeze,
All freshly steep'd in morning dews.
And maun I still on Menie doat,
And bear the scorn that's in her ee?
For it's jet, jet black, an' it's like a hawk,
An' it winna let a body be!
In vain to me the cowslips blaw,
In vain to me the vi'lets spring;
In vain to me, in glen or shaw,
The mavis and the lintwhite sing.
And maun I still...
The merry ploughboy cheers his team,
Wi' joy the tentie seedsman stalks,
But life to me 's a weary dream,
A dream of ane that never wauks.
And maun I still...
The wanton coot the water skims,
Among the reeds the ducklings cry,
The stately swan majestic swims,
And every thing is blest but I.
And maun I still...
The shepherd steeks his faulding slap,
And owre the moorlands whistles shill,
Wi' wild, unequal, wand'ring step,
I meet him on the dewy hill.
And maun I still...
And when the lark, 'tween light and dark,
Blythe waukens by the daisy's side,
And mounts and sings on fluttering wings,
A woe-worn ghaist I hameward glide.
And maun I still...
Come, Winter, with thine angry howl,
And raging bend the naked tree;
Thy gloom will soothe my cheerless soul,
When Nature all is sad like me!
And maun I still...
Mindful of you the sodden earth in spring,
And all the flowers that in the springtime grow,
And dusty roads, and thistles, and the slow
Rising of the round moon, all throats that sing
The summer through, and each departing wing,
And all the nests that the bared branches show,
And all winds that in any weather blow,
And all the storms that the four seasons bring.
You go no more on your exultant feet
Up paths that only mist and morning knew,
Or watch the wind, or listen to the beat
Of a bird's wings too high in air to view,—
But you were something more than young and sweet
And fair,—and the long year remembers you.
A spring morning – well,
I only need to say the words?
I’ll picture mine, you picture yours –
champagne bubbling in the blood and in the mind,
hopes and possibilities flooding freshly in..
but a spring mid-afternoon… like today, like now:
a subtle balance of the elements;
the sunlight bathes the room, but  gently,
with its promise; yet,
there’s a timeless peace with it
that’s like a life surveyed; yet
free of thought, of comparison, or of regret:
the six loved paintings that adorn the walls
bought for a song, when art was like a song –
they love the gentle sunlight, and it in turn loves them;
five artists painting their sunlit peace, their happiness;
(two very different ones from the man
who lives so humbly halfway up
the mountain hills he rambles every day):
three oils; one gouache; one watercolour; and one pastel;
they all but two have clouds in them
as they’re all landscapes;
one that hasn’t, has a haze as if
the painter’s painting the summer wind, in those high hills..
the other is a cloudless morning’s peace,
the bend of a river in mid-France;
the river…it  cannot be, just painted oil?
it’s water seen as by a pure clear soul…
and the clouds – caught in an impossibility of time,
play out an endless drama of the elements;
timeless in the peace of, now, a slightly later
springtime afternoon; almost with a touch...
but how could  perfection ever regret
its own departure?
By the road to the contagious hospital
under the surge of the blue
mottled clouds driven from the
northeast -- a cold wind. Beyond, the
waste of broad, muddy fields
brown with dried weeds, standing and fallen
patches of standing water
the scattering of tall trees
All along the road the reddish
purplish, forked, upstanding, twiggy
stuff of bushes and small trees
with dead, brown leaves under them
leafless vines --
Lifeless in appearance, sluggish
dazed spring approaches --
They enter the new world naked,
cold, uncertain of all
save that they enter. All about them
the cold, familiar wind --
Now the grass, tomorrow
the stiff curl of wildcarrot leaf
One by one objects are defined --
It quickens: clarity, outline of leaf
But now the stark dignity of
entrance -- Still, the profound change
has come upon them: rooted they
grip down and begin to awaken
Green ripples singing down the corn,
With blossoms dumb the path I tread,
And in the music of the morn
One with wild roses on her head.
Now the green ripples turn to gold
And all the paths are loud with rain,
I with desire am growing old
And full of winter pain.
Margaret, are you grieving
Over Goldengrove unleaving?
Leaves, like the things of man, you
With your fresh thoughts care for, can you?
Ah! as the heart grows older
It will come to such sights colder
By and by, nor spare a sigh
Though worlds of wanwood leafmeal lie;
And yet you will weep and know why.
Now no matter, child, the name:
Sorrow's springs are the same.
Nor mouth had, no nor mind, expressed
What heart heard of, ghost guessed:
It is the blight man was born for,
It is Margaret you mourn for.
WHEN daisies pied and violets blue,
And lady-smocks all silver-white,
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
Do paint the meadows with delight,
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
Mocks married men; for thus sings he,
Cuckoo!
Cuckoo, cuckoo! - O word of fear,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws,
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks,
When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws,
And maidens bleach their summer smocks
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
Mocks married men; for thus sings he,
Cuckoo!
Cuckoo, cuckoo! - O word of fear,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
WHEN loud by landside streamlets gush,
And clear in the greenwood quires the thrush,
With sun on the meadows
And songs in the shadows
Comes again to me
The gift of the tongues of the lea,
The gift of the tongues of meadows.
Straightway my olden heart returns
And dances with the dancing burns;
It sings with the sparrows;
To the rain and the (grimy) barrows
Sings my heart aloud -
To the silver-bellied cloud,
To the silver rainy arrows.
It bears the song of the skylark down,
And it hears the singing of the town;
And youth on the highways
And lovers in byways
Follows and sees:
And hearkens the song of the leas
And sings the songs of the highways.
So when the earth is alive with gods,
And the lusty ploughman breaks the sod,
And the grass sings in the meadows,
And the flowers smile in the shadows,
Sits my heart at ease,
Hearing the song of the leas,
Singing the songs of the meadows.
I sit in an office at 244 Madison Avenue
And say to myself You have a responsible job havenue?
Why then do you fritter away your time on this doggerel?
If you have a sore throat you can cure it by using a good goggeral,
If you have a sore foot you can get it fixed by a chiropodist,
And you can get your original sin removed by St. John the Bopodist,
Why then should this flocculent lassitude be incurable?
Kansas City, Kansas, proves that even Kansas City needn't always be
Missourible.
Up up my soul! This inaction is abominable.
Perhaps it is the result of disturbances abdominable.
The pilgrims settled Massachusetts in 1620 when they landed on a stone
hummock.
Maybe if they were here now they would settle my stomach.
Oh, if I only had the wings of a bird
Instead of being confined on Madison Avenue I could soar in a jiffy to
Second or Third.
From the German of Herder.
All faintly through my soul to-day,
As from a bell that far away
Is tinkled by some frolic fay,
Floateth a lovely chiming.
Thou magic bell, to many a fell
And many a winter-saddened dell
Thy tongue a tale of Spring doth tell,
Too passionate-sweet for rhyming.
Chime out, thou little song of Spring,
Float in the blue skies ravishing.
Thy song-of-life a joy doth bring
That's sweet, albeit fleeting.
Float on the Spring-winds e'en to my home:
And when thou to a rose shalt come
That hath begun to show her bloom,
Say, I send her greeting!
Too green the springing April grass,
Too blue the silver-speckled sky,
For me to linger here, alas,
While happy winds go laughing by,
Wasting the golden hours indoors,
Washing windows and scrubbing floors.
Too wonderful the April night,
Too faintly sweet the first May flowers,
The stars too gloriously bright,
For me to spend the evening hours,
When fields are fresh and streams are leaping,
Wearied, exhausted, dully sleeping.
Now in the oak the sap of life is welling,
Tho' to the bough the rusty leafage clings;
Now on the elm the misty buds are swelling,
See how the pine-wood grows alive with wings;
Blue-jays fluttering, yodeling and crying,
Meadow-larks sailing low above the faded grass,
Red-birds whistling clear, silent robins flying,--
Who has waked the birds up? What has come to pass?
Last year's cotton-plants, desolately bowing,
Tremble in the March-wind, ragged and forlorn;
Red are the hill-sides of the early ploughing,
Gray are the lowlands, waiting for the corn.
Earth seems asleep still, but she's only feigning;
Deep in her bosom thrills a sweet unrest.
Look where the jasmine lavishly is raining
Jove's golden shower into Danae's breast!
Now on the plum the snowy bloom is sifted,
Now on the peach the glory of the rose,
Over the hills a tender haze is drifted,
Full to the brim the yellow river flows.
Dark cypress boughs with vivid jewels glisten,
Greener than emeralds shining in the sun.
Who has wrought the magic? Listen, sweetheart, listen!
The mocking-bird is singing Spring has begun.
Hark, in his song no tremor of misgiving!
All of his heart he pours into his lay,--
"Love, love, love, and pure delight of living:
Winter is forgotten: here's a happy day!"
Fair in your face I read the flowery presage,
Snowy on your brow and rosy on your mouth:
Sweet in your voice I hear the season's message,--
Love, love, love, and Spring in the South!
The country ever has a lagging Spring,
Waiting for May to call its violets forth,
And June its roses--showers and sunshine bring,
Slowly, the deepening verdure o'er the earth;
To put their foliage out, the woods are slack,
And one by one the singing-birds come back.
Within the city's bounds the time of flowers
Comes earlier. Let a mild and sunny day,
Such as full often, for a few bright hours,
Breathes through the sky of March the airs of May,
Shine on our roofs and chase the wintry gloom--
And lo! our borders glow with sudden bloom.
For the wide sidewalks of Broadway are then
Gorgeous as are a rivulet's banks in June,
That overhung with blossoms, through its glen,
Slides soft away beneath the sunny noon,
And they who search the untrodden wood for flowers
Meet in its depths no lovelier ones than ours.
For here are eyes that shame the violet,
Or the dark drop that on the pansy lies,
And foreheads, white, as when in clusters set,
The anemonies by forest fountains rise;
And the spring-beauty boasts no tenderer streak
Than the soft red on many a youthful cheek.
And thick about those lovely temples lie
Locks that the lucky Vignardonne has curled,
Thrice happy man! whose trade it is to buy,
And bake, and braid those love-knots of the world;
Who curls of every glossy colour keepest,
And sellest, it is said, the blackest cheapest.
And well thou may'st--for Italy's brown maids
Send the dark locks with which their brows are dressed,
And Gascon lasses, from their jetty braids,
Crop half, to buy a riband for the rest;
But the fresh Norman girls their tresses spare,
And the Dutch damsel keeps her flaxen hair.
Then, henceforth, let no maid nor matron grieve,
To see her locks of an unlovely hue,
Frouzy or thin, for liberal art shall give
Such piles of curls as nature never knew.
Eve, with her veil of tresses, at the sight
Had blushed, outdone, and owned herself a fright.
Soft voices and light laughter wake the street,
Like notes of woodbirds, and where'er the eye
Threads the long way, plumes wave, and twinkling feet
Fall light, as hastes that crowd of beauty by.
The ostrich, hurrying o'er the desert space,
Scarce bore those tossing plumes with fleeter pace.
No swimming Juno gait, of languor born,
Is theirs, but a light step of freest grace,
Light as Camilla's o'er the unbent corn,
A step that speaks the spirit of the place,
Since Quiet, meek old dame, was driven away
To Sing Sing and the shores of Tappan bay.
Ye that dash by in chariots! who will care
For steeds or footmen now? ye cannot show
Fair face, and dazzling dress, and graceful air,
And last edition of the shape! Ah no,
These sights are for the earth and open sky,
And your loud wheels unheeded rattle by.
I feel the Spring far off, far off,
The faint far scent of bud and leaf--
Oh how can Spring take heart to come
To a world in grief,
Deep grief?
The sun turns north, the days grow long,
Later the evening star grows bright--
How can the daylight linger on
For men to fight,
Still fight?
The grass is waking in the ground,
Soon it will rise and blow in waves--
How can it have the heart to sway
Over the graves,
New graves?
Under the boughs where lovers walked
The apple-blooms will shed their breath--
But what of all the lovers now
Parted by death,
Gray Death?
spring is a -springing
the sun is a-shining
and daffodils dance in the dew of the garden
horses are necking
and neighing and whinnying
and chasing each other all over the paddock
birds are a-nesting
and preening and strutting
about with their feathers all ruffled and polished
children are laughing
their faces exploding
with smiles and giggles and games of pretending
lovers are lusting
and cooing and kissing
and dreaming of yellow and sunshine and flowers
844
Spring is the Period
Express from God.
Among the other seasons
Himself abide,
But during March and April
None stir abroad
Without a cordial interview
With God.
London Bridge is falling down, Rome's burnt and Babylon
The Great is now but dust; yet still Spring must
Swing back through Time's continual arc to earth.
Though every land become as a black field
Dunged with the dead, drenched by the dying's blood,
Still must a punctual goddess waken and ascend
The rocky stairs, up into earth's chilled air,
And pass upon her mission through those carrion ranks,
Picking her way among a maze of broken brick
To quicken with her footsteps the short sooty grass between;
While now once more their futile matchwood empires flare and blaze
And through the smoke men gaze with bloodshot eyes
At the translucent apparition, clad in trembling nascent green
Of one they still can recognize, though scarcely understand.
In what house, the jade flute that sends these dark notes drifting,
scattering on the spring wind that fills Lo-yang?
Tonight if we should hear the willow-breaking song,
who could help but long for the gardens of home?
The park is filled with night and fog,
The veils are drawn about the world,
The drowsy lights along the paths
Are dim and pearled.
Gold and gleaming the empty streets,
gold and gleaming the misty lake,
The mirrored lights like sunken swords,
Glimmer and shake.
Oh, is it not enought to be
Here with this beauty over me?
My throat should ache with praise, and I
Should kneel in joy beneath the sky.
O, Beauty are you not enough?
Why am I crying after love,
With youth, a singing voice and eyes
To take earth's wonder with surprise?
Why have I put off my pride,
Why am I unsatisfied,--
I for whom the pensive night
Binds her cloudy hair with light,--
I, for whom all beauty burns
Like incense in a million urns?
O, Beauty, are you not enough?
Why am I crying after love?
1 Halted against the shade of a last hill,
2 They fed, and, lying easy, were at ease
3 And, finding comfortable chests and knees
4 Carelessly slept. But many there stood still
5 To face the stark, blank sky beyond the ridge,
6 Knowing their feet had come to the end of the world.
7 Marvelling they stood, and watched the long grass swirled
8 By the May breeze, murmurous with wasp and midge,
9 For though the summer oozed into their veins
10 Like the injected drug for their bones' pains,
11 Sharp on their souls hung the imminent line of grass,
12 Fearfully flashed the sky's mysterious glass.
13 Hour after hour they ponder the warm field--
14 And the far valley behind, where the buttercups
15 Had blessed with gold their slow boots coming up,
16 Where even the little brambles would not yield,
17 But clutched and clung to them like sorrowing hands;
18 They breathe like trees unstirred.
19 Till like a cold gust thrilled the little word
20 At which each body and its soul begird
21 And tighten them for battle. No alarms
22 Of bugles, no high flags, no clamorous haste--
23 Only a lift and flare of eyes that faced
24 The sun, like a friend with whom their love is done.
25 O larger shone that smile against the sun,--
26 Mightier than his whose bounty these have spurned.
27 So, soon they topped the hill, and raced together
28 Over an open stretch of herb and heather
29 Exposed. And instantly the whole sky burned
30 With fury against them; and soft sudden cups
31 Opened in thousands for their blood; and the green slopes
32 Chasmed and steepened sheer to infinite space.
33 Of them who running on that last high place
34 Leapt to swift unseen bullets, or went up
35 On the hot blast and fury of hell's upsurge,
36 Or plunged and fell away past this world's verge,
37 Some say God caught them even before they fell.
38 But what say such as from existence' brink
39 Ventured but drave too swift to sink.
40 The few who rushed in the body to enter hell,
41 And there out-fiending all its fiends and flames
42 With superhuman inhumanities,
43 Long-famous glories, immemorial shames--
44 And crawling slowly back, have by degrees
45 Regained cool peaceful air in wonder--
46 Why speak they not of comrades that went under?
Birds' love and birds' song
Flying here and there,
Birds' songand birds' love
And you with gold for hair!
Birds' songand birds' love
Passing with the weather,
Men's song and men's love,
To love once and forever.
Men's love and birds' love,
And women's love and men's!
And you my wren with a crown of gold,
You my queen of the wrens!
You the queen of the wrens --
We'll be birds of a feather,
I'll be King of the Queen of the wrens,
And all in a nest together.
Spring is life
Spring is hope
So is love and
happiness.
Spring renews.
Without spring,
life is forlorn.
Spring is nostalgia
after bitter storm.
Put spring in your heart
The year has changed his mantle cold
Of wind, of rain, of bitter air;
And he goes clad in cloth of gold,
Of laughing suns and season fair;
No bird or beast of wood or wold
But doth with cry or song declare
The year lays down his mantle cold.
All founts, all rivers, seaward rolled,
The pleasant summer livery wear,
With silver studs on broidered vair;
The world puts off its raiment old,
The year lays down his mantle cold.
Soft-littered is the new-year's lambing fold,
And in the hollowed haystack at its side
The shepherd lies o' night now, wakeful-eyed
At the ewes' travailing call through the dark cold.
The young rooks cheep 'mid the thick caw o' the old:
And near unpeopled stream-sides, on the ground,
By her Spring cry the moorhen's nest is found,
Where the drained flood-lands flaunt their marigold.
Chill are the gusts to which the pastures cower,
And chill the current where the young reeds stand
As green and close as the young wheat on land
Yet here the cuckoo and cuckoo-flower
Plight to the heart Spring's perfect imminent hour
Whose breath shall soothe you like your dear one's hand.
To what purpose, April, do you return again?
Beauty is not enough.
You can no longer quiet me with the redness
Of little leaves opening stickily.
I know what I know.
The sun is hot on my neck as I observe
The spikes of the crocus.
The smell of the earth is good.
It is apparent that there is no death.
But what does that signify?
Not only under ground are the brains of men
Eaten by maggots.
Life in itself
Is nothing,
An empty cup, a flight of uncarpeted stairs.
It is not enough that yearly, down this hill,
April
Comes like an idiot, babbling and strewing flowers.
Flowers are on their way to bloom
Birds do twitter in the sky
You see
The sea &
The sky
Are blue
Love is the essence of life
And I am on my way to you!
In spring I go to war
To sing or to die.
What do I care for my own troubles?
Today I shatter them, laughing in pieces.
Oh, Brothers, know that young spring came
In a whirlwind.
Quickly throw off tired grief
And follow her in a host.
I have never felt so strongly
How much I love you, Oh, Germany,
As the magic of spring surrounds you
Amidst the bustle of war.
Nothing is so beautiful as spring --
When weeds, in wheels, shoot long and lovely and lush;
Thrush's eggs look little low heavens, and thrush
Through the echoing timber does so rinse and wring
The ear, it strikes like lightnings to hear him sing;
The glassy peartree leaves and blooms, they brush
The descending blue; that blue is all in a rush
With richness; the racing lambs too have fair their fling.
What is all this juice and all this joy?
A strain of the earth's sweet being in the beginning
In Eden garden. -- Have, get, before it cloy,
Before it cloud, Christ, lord, and sour with sinning,
Innocent mind and Mayday in girl and boy,
Most, O maid's child, thy choice and worthy the winning.
Spring, with that nameless pathos in the air
Which dwells with all things fair,
Spring, with her golden suns and silver rain,
Is with us once again.
Out in the lonely woods the jasmine burns
Its fragrant lamps, and turns
Into a royal court with green festoons
The banks of dark lagoons.
In the deep heart of every forest tree
The blood is all aglee,
And there's a look about the leafless bowers
As if they dreamed of flowers.
Yet still on every side we trace the hand
Of Winter in the land,
Save where the maple reddens on the lawn,
Flushed by the season's dawn;
Or where, like those strange semblances we find
That age to childhood bind,
The elm puts on, as if in Nature's scorn,
The brown of Autumn corn.
As yet the turf is dark, although you know
That, not a span below,
A thousand germs are groping through the gloom,
And soon will burst their tomb.
Already, here and there, on frailest stems
Appear some azure gems,
Small as might deck, upon a gala day,
The forehead of a fay.
In gardens you may note amid the dearth
The crocus breaking earth;
And near the snowdrop's tender white and green,
The violet in its screen.
But many gleams and shadows need must pass
Along the budding grass,
And weeks go by, before the enamored South
Shall kiss the rose's mouth.
Still there's a sense of blossoms yet unborn
In the sweet airs of morn;
One almost looks to see the very street
Grow purple at his feet.
At times a fragrant breeze comes floating by,
And brings, you know not why,
A feeling as when eager crowds await
Before a palace gate
Some wondrous pageant; and you scarce would start,
If from a beech's heart,
A blue-eyed Dryad, stepping forth, should say,
"Behold me!  I am May!"
Ah! who would couple thoughts of war and crime
With such a bless|"ed time!
Who in the west wind's aromatic breath
Could hear the call of Death!
Yet not more surely shall the Spring awake
The voice of wood and brake,
Than she shall rouse, for all her tranquil charms,
A million men to arms.
There shall be deeper hues upon her plains
Than all her sunlit rains,
And every gladdening influence around,
Can summon from the ground.
Oh! standing on this desecrated mould,
Methinks that I behold,
Lifting her bloody daisies up to God,
Spring kneeling on the sod,
And calling, with the voice of all her rills,
Upon the ancient hills
To fall and crush the tyrants and the slaves
Who turn her meads to graves.
SPRING, the sweet Spring, is the year's pleasant king;
Then blooms each thing, then maids dance in a ring,
Cold doth not sting, the pretty birds do sing--
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
The palm and may make country houses gay,
Lambs frisk and play, the shepherds pipe all day,
And we hear aye birds tune this merry lay--
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
The fields breathe sweet, the daisies kiss our feet,
Young lovers meet, old wives a-sunning sit,
In every street these tunes our ears do greet--
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
Spring, the sweet Spring!
Sound the flute!
Now it's mute!
Bird's delight,
Day and night,
Nightingale,
In the dale,
Lark in sky,--
Merrily,
Merrily merrily, to welcome in the year.
Little boy,
Full of joy;
Little girl,
Sweet and small;
Cock does crow,
So do you;
Merry voice,
Infant noise;
Merrily, merrily, to welcome in the year.
Little lamb,
Here I am;
Come and lick
My white neck;
Let me pull
Your soft wool;
Let me kiss
Your soft face;
Merrily, merrily, to welcome in the year.
Spring am I, too soft of heart
Much to speak ere I depart:
Ask the Summer-tide to prove
The abundance of my love.
These pools that, though in forests, still reflect
The total sky almost without defect,
And like the flowers beside them, chill and shiver,
Will like the flowers beside them soon be gone,
And yet not out by any brook or river,
But up by roots to bring dark foliage on.
The trees that have it in their pent-up buds
To darken nature and be summer woods -
Let them think twice before they use their powers
To blot out and drink up and sweep away
These flowery waters and these watery flowers
From snow that melted only yesterday.
Gone were but the Winter,
Come were but the Spring,
I would go to a covert
Where the birds sing;
Where in the whitethorn
Singeth a thrush,
And a robin sings
In the holly-bush.
Full of fresh scents
Are the budding boughs
Arching high over
A cool green house:
Full of sweet scents,
And whispering air
Which sayeth softly:
"We spread no snare;
"Here dwell in safety,
Here dwell alone,
With a clear stream
And a mossy stone.
"Here the sun shineth
Most shadily;
Here is heard an echo
Of the far sea,
Though far off it be."
Spring rain
leaking through the roof
dripping from the wasps' nest.
Translated by Robert Hass
I thought I had forgotten,
But it all came back again
To-night with the first spring thunder
In a rush of rain.
I remembered a darkened doorway
Where we stood while the storm swept by,
Thunder gripping the earth
And lightning scrawled on the sky.
The passing motor busses swayed,
For the street was a river of rain,
Lashed into little golden waves
In the lamp light's stain.
With the wild spring rain and thunder
My heart was wild and gay;
Your eyes said more to me that night
Than your lips would ever say. . . .
I thought I had forgotten,
But it all came back again
To-night with the first spring thunder
In a rush of rain.
Hark, I hear a robin calling!
List, the wind is from the south!
And the orchard-bloom is falling
Sweet as kisses on the mouth.
In the dreamy vale of beeches
Fair and faint is woven mist,
And the river's orient reaches
Are the palest amethyst.
Every limpid brook is singing
Of the lure of April days;
Every piney glen is ringing
With the maddest roundelays.
Come and let us seek together
Springtime lore of daffodils,
Giving to the golden weather
Greeting on the sun-warm hills.
Ours shall be the moonrise stealing
Through the birches ivory-white;
Ours shall be the mystic healing
Of the velvet-footed night.
Ours shall be the gypsy winding
Of the path with violets blue,
Ours at last the wizard finding
Of the land where dreams come true.
THE air was full of sun and birds,
The fresh air sparkled clearly.
Remembrance wakened in my heart
And I knew I loved her dearly.
The fallows and the leafless trees
And all my spirit tingled.
My earliest thought of love, and Spring's
First puff of perfume mingled.
In my still heart the thoughts awoke,
Came lone by lone together -
Say, birds and Sun and Spring, is Love
A mere affair of weather?
Spring, the sweet spring, is the year's pleasant king,
Then blooms each thing, then maids dance in a ring,
Cold doth not sting, the pretty birds do sing:
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
The palm and may make country houses gay,
Lambs frisk and play, the shepherds pipe all day,
And we hear aye birds tune this merry lay:
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
The fields breathe sweet, the daisies kiss our feet,
Young lovers meet, old wives a-sunning sit,
In every street these tunes our ears do greet:
Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to witta-woo!
Listen, The wind is still,
And far away in the night --
See! The uplands fill
With a running light.
Open the doors. It is warm;
And where the sky was clear--
Look! The head of a storm
That marches here!
Come under the trembling hedge--
Fast, although you fumble...
There! Did you hear the edge
of winter crumble
A pity it is evening, yet
I do love the water of this spring
seeing how clear it is, how clean;
rays of sunset gleam on it,
lighting up its ripples, making it
one with those who travel
the roads; I turn and face
the moon; sing it a song, then
listen to the sound of the wind
amongst the pines.
This spring as it comes bursts up in bonfires green,
Wild puffing of emerald trees, and flame-filled bushes,
Thorn-blossom lifting in wreaths of smoke between
Where the wood fumes up and the watery, flickering rushes.
I am amazed at this spring, this conflagration
Of green fires lit on the soil of the earth, this blaze
Of growing, and sparks that puff in wild gyration,
Faces of people streaming across my gaze.
And I, what fountain of fire am I among
This leaping combustion of spring? My spirit is tossed
About like a shadow buffeted in the throng
Of flames, a shadow that’s gone astray, and is lost.
'Tis a dull sight
To see the year dying,
When winter winds
Set the yellow wood sighing:
Sighing, oh! sighing.
When such a time cometh,
I do retire
Into and old room
Beside a bright fire:
Oh, pile a bright fire!
And there I sit
Reading old things,
Of knights and lorn damsels,
While the wind sings—
Oh, drearily sings!
I never look out
Nor attend to the blast;
For all to be seen
Is the leaves falling fast:
Falling, falling!
But close at the hearth,
Like a cricket, sit I,
Reading of summer
And chivalry—
Gallant chivalry!
Then with an old friend
I talk of our youth!
How 'twas gladsome, but often
Foolish, forsooth:
But gladsome, gladsome!
Or to get merry
We sing some old rhyme,
That made the wood ring again
In summertime—
Sweet summertime!
Then go we to smoking,
Silent and snug:
Nought passes between us,
Save a brown jug—
Sometimes!
And sometimes a tear
Will rise in each eye,
Seeing the two old friends
So merrily—
So merrily!
And ere to bed
Go we, go we,
Down on the ashes
We kneel on the knee,
Praying together!
Thus, then, live I,
Till, 'mid all the gloom,
By heaven! the bold sun
Is with me in the room
Shining, shining!
Then the clouds part,
Swallow soaring between;
The spring is alive,
And the meadows are green!
I jump up, like mad,
Break the old pipe in twain,
And away to the meadows,
The meadows again!
THE groundflame of the crocus breaks the mould,
Fair Spring slides hither o'er the Southern sea,
Wavers on her thin stem the snowdrop cold
That trembles not to kisses of the bee:
Come Spring, for now from all the dripping eaves
The spear of ice has wept itself away,
And hour by hour unfolding woodbine leaves
O'er his uncertain shadow droops the day.
She comes! The loosen'd rivulets run;
The frost-bead melts upon her golden hair;
Her mantle, slowly greening in the Sun,
Now wraps her close, now arching leaves her bar
To breaths of balmier air;
Up leaps the lark, gone wild to welcome her,
About her glance the tits, and shriek the jays,
Before her skims the jubilant woodpecker,
The linnet's bosom blushes at her gaze,
While round her brows a woodland culver flits,
Watching her large light eyes and gracious looks,
And in her open palm a halcyon sits
Patient--the secret splendour of the brooks.
Come Spring! She comes on waste and wood,
On farm and field: but enter also here,
Diffuse thyself at will thro' all my blood,
And, tho' thy violet sicken into sere,
Lodge with me all the year!
Once more a downy drift against the brakes,
Self-darken'd in the sky, descending slow!
But gladly see I thro' the wavering flakes
Yon blanching apricot like snow in snow.
These will thine eyes not brook in forest-paths,
On their perpetual pine, nor round the beech;
They fuse themselves to little spicy baths,
Solved in the tender blushes of the peach;
They lose themselves and die
On that new life that gems the hawthorn line;
Thy gay lent-lilies wave and put them by,
And out once more in varnish'd glory shine
Thy stars of celandine.
She floats across the hamlet. Heaven lours,
But in the tearful splendour of her smiles
I see the slowl-thickening chestnut towers
Fill out the spaces by the barren tiles.
Now past her feet the swallow circling flies,
A clamorous cuckoo stoops to meet her hand;
Her light makes rainbows in my closing eyes,
I hear a charm of song thro' all the land.
Come, Spring! She comes, and Earth is glad
To roll her North below thy deepening dome,
But ere thy maiden birk be wholly clad,
And these low bushes dip their twigs in foam,
Make all true hearths thy home.
Across my garden! and the thicket stirs,
The fountain pulses high in sunnier jets,
The blackcap warbles, and the turtle purrs,
The starling claps his tiny castanets.
Still round her forehead wheels the woodland dove,
And scatters on her throat the sparks of dew,
The kingcup fills her footprint, and above
Broaden the glowing isles of vernal blue.
Hail ample presence of a Queen,
Bountiful, beautiful, apparell'd gay,
Whose mantle, every shade of glancing green,
Flies back in fragrant breezes to display
A tunic white as May!
She whispers, 'From the South I bring you balm,
For on a tropic mountain was I born,
While some dark dweller by the coco-palm
Watch'd my far meadow zoned with airy morn;
From under rose a muffled moan of floods;
I sat beneath a solitude of snow;
There no one came, the turf was fresh, the woods
Plunged gulf on gulf thro' all their vales below
I saw beyond their silent tops
The steaming marshes of the scarlet cranes,
The slant seas leaning oll the mangrove copse,
And summer basking in the sultry plains
About a land of canes;
'Then from my vapour-girdle soaring forth
I scaled the buoyant highway of the birds,
And drank the dews and drizzle of the North,
That I might mix with men, and hear their words
On pathway'd plains; for--while my hand exults
Within the bloodless heart of lowly flowers
To work old laws of Love to fresh results,
Thro' manifold effect of simple powers--
I too would teach the man
Beyond the darker hour to see the bright,
That his fresh life may close as it began,
The still-fulfilling promise of a light
Narrowing the bounds of night.'
So wed thee with my soul, that I may mark
The coming year's great good and varied ills,
And new developments, whatever spark
Be struck from out the clash of warring wills;
Or whether, since our nature cannot rest,
The smoke of war's volcano burst again
From hoary deeps that belt the changeful West,
Old Empires, dwellings of the kings of men;
Or should those fail, that hold the helm,
While the long day of knowledge grows and warms,
And in the heart of this most ancient realm
A hateful voice be utter'd, and alarms
Sounding 'To arms! to arms!'
A simpler, saner lesson might he learn
Who reads thy gradual process, Holy Spring.
Thy leaves possess the season in their turn,
And in their time thy warblers rise on wing.
How surely glidest thou from March to May,
And changest, breathing it, the sullen wind,
Thy scope of operation, day by day,
Larger and fuller, like the human mind '
Thy warmths from bud to bud
Accomplish that blind model in the seed,
And men have hopes, which race the restless blood
That after many changes may succeed
Life, which is Life indeed.
In the spring of the year, in the spring of the year,
I walked the road beside my dear.
The trees were black where the bark was wet.
I see them yet, in the spring of the year.
He broke me a bough of the blossoming peach
That was out of the way and hard to reach.
In the fall of the year, in the fall of the year,
I walked the road beside my dear.
The rooks went up with a raucous trill.
I hear them still, in the fall of the year.
He laughed at all I dared to praise,
And broke my heart, in little ways.
Year be springing or year be falling,
The bark will drip and the birds be calling.
There's much that's fine to see and hear
In the spring of a year, in the fall of a year.
'Tis not love's going hurt my days.
But that it went in little ways.
(After Rilke)
Spring has returned! Everything has returned!
The earth, just like a schoolgirl, memorizes
Poems, so many poems. ... Look, she has learned
So many famous poems, she has earned so many prizes!
Teacher was strict. We delighted in the white
Of the old man's beard, bright like the snow's:
Now we may ask which names are wrong, or right
For "blue," for "apple," for "ripe." She knows, she knows!
Lucky earth, let out of school, now you must play
Hide-and-seek with all the children every day:
You must hide that we may seek you: we will! We will!
The happiest child will hold you. She knows all the things
You taught her: the word for "hope," and for "believe,"
Are still upon her tongue. She sings and sings and sings.
Man goes to Man! Cry the challenge through the Jungle!
He that was our Brother goes away.
Hear, now, and judge, O ye People of the Jungle--
Answer, who can turn him--who shall stay?
Man goes to Man! He is weeping in the Jungle:
He that was our Brother sorrows sore!
Man goes to Man! (Oh, we loved him in the Jungle!)
To the Man-Trail where we may not follow more.
The sky has given over
its bitterness.
Out of the dark change
all day long
rain falls and falls
as if it would never end.
Still the snow keeps
its hold on the ground.
But water, water
from a thousand runnels!
It collects swiftly,
dappled with black
cuts a way for itself
through green ice in the gutters.
Drop after drop it falls
from the withered grass-stems
of the overhanging embankment.
The Spring-time, O the Spring-time!
Who does not know it well?
When the little birds begin to build,
And the buds begin to swell.
When the sun with the clouds plays hide-and-seek,
And the lambs are bucking and bleating,
And the colour mounts to the maiden's cheek,
And the cuckoo scatters greeting;
In the Spring-time, joyous Spring-time!
The Summer, O the Summer!
Who does not know it well?
When the ringdoves coo the long day through,
And the bee refills his cell.
When the swish of the mower is heard at morn,
And we all in the woods go roaming,
And waiting is over, and love is born,
And shy lips meet in the gloaming;
In the Summer, ripening Summer!
The Autumn, O the Autumn!
Who does not know it well?
When the leaf turns brown, and the mast drops down,
And the chestnut splits its shell.
When we muse o'er the days that have gone before,
And the days that will follow after,
When the grain lies deep on the winnowing-floor,
And the plump gourd hangs from the rafter;
In the Autumn, thoughtful Autumn!
The Winter, O the Winter!
Who does not know it well?
When, day after day, the fields stretch gray,
And the peewit wails on the fell.
When we close up the crannies and shut out the cold,
And the wind sounds hoarse and hollow,
And our dead loves sleep in the churchyard mould,
And we feel that we soon shall follow;
In the Winter, mournful Winter!
The winter comes; I walk alone,
I want no bird to sing;
To those who keep their hearts their own
The winter is the spring.
No flowers to please--no bees to hum--
The coming spring's already come.
I never want the Christmas rose
To come before its time;
The seasons, each as God bestows,
Are simple and sublime.
I love to see the snowstorm hing;
'Tis but the winter garb of spring.
I never want the grass to bloom:
The snowstorm's best in white.
I love to see the tempest come
And love its piercing light.
The dazzled eyes that love to cling
O'er snow-white meadows sees the spring.
I love the snow, the crumpling snow
That hangs on everything,
It covers everything below
Like white dove's brooding wing,
A landscape to the aching sight,
A vast expanse of dazzling light.
It is the foliage of the woods
That winters bring--the dress,
White Easter of the year in bud,
That makes the winter Spring.
The frost and snow his posies bring,
Nature's white spurts of the spring.
The year's at the spring,
And day's at the morn;
Morning's at seven;
The hill-side's dew-pearled;
The lark's on the wing;
The snail's on the thorn;
God's in his Heaven—
All's right with the world!
(For Kenton)
An iron hand has stilled the throats
That throbbed with loud and rhythmic glee
And dammed the flood of silver notes
That drenched the world in melody.
The blosmy apple boughs are yearning
For their wild choristers' returning,
But no swift wings flash through the tree.
Ye that were glad and fleet and strong,
Shall Silence take you in her net?
And shall Death quell that radiant song
Whose echo thrills the meadow yet?
Burst the frail web about you clinging
And charm Death's cruel heart with singing
Till with strange tears his eyes are wet.
The scented morning of the year
Is old and stale now ye are gone.
No friendly songs the children hear
Among the bushes on the lawn.
When babies wander out a-Maying
Will ye, their bards, afar be straying?
Unhymned by you, what is the dawn?
Nay, since ye loved ye cannot die.
Above the stars is set your nest.
Through Heaven's fields ye sing and fly
And in the trees of Heaven rest.
And little children in their dreaming
Shall see your soft black plumage gleaming
And smile, by your clear music blest.
O thou with dewy locks, who lookest down
Thro' the clear windows of the morning, turn
Thine angel eyes upon our western isle,
Which in full choir hails thy approach, O Spring!
The hills tell each other, and the listening
Valleys hear; all our longing eyes are turned
Up to thy bright pavilions: issue forth,
And let thy holy feet visit our clime.
Come o'er the eastern hills, and let our winds
Kiss thy perfumed garments; let us taste
Thy morn and evening breath; scatter thy pearls
Upon our love-sick land that mourns for thee.
O deck her forth with thy fair fingers; pour
Thy soft kisses on her bosom; and put
Thy golden crown upon her languished head,
Whose modest tresses were bound up for thee.
Welcome, gentle Stripling,
Nature's darling thou!
With thy basket full of blossoms,
A happy welcome now!
Aha!--and thou returnest,
Heartily we greet thee--
The loving and the fair one,
Merrily we meet thee!
Think'st thou of my maiden
In thy heart of glee?
I love her yet, the maiden--
And the maiden yet loves me!
For the maiden, many a blossom
I begged--and not in vain!
I came again a-begging,
And thou--thou givest again:
Welcome, gentle Stripling,
Nature's darling thou--
With thy basket full of blossoms,
A happy welcome now!
The fields are snowbound no longer;
There are little blue lakes and flags of tenderest green.
The snow has been caught up into the sky--
So many white clouds--and the blue of the sky is cold.
Now the sun walks in the forest,
He touches the bows and stems with his golden fingers;
They shiver, and wake from slumber.
Over the barren branches he shakes his yellow curls.
Yet is the forest full of the sound of tears....
A wind dances over the fields.
Shrill and clear the sound of her waking laughter,
Yet the little blue lakes tremble
And the flags of tenderest green bend and quiver.
Bells in the town alight with spring
converse, with a concordance of new airs
make clear the fresh and ancient sound they sing.
People emerge from winter to hear them ring,
children glitter with mischief and the blind man hears
bells in the town alight with spring.
Even he on his eyes feels the caressing
finger of Persephone, and her voice escaped from tears
make clear the fresh and ancient sound they sing.
Bird feels the enchantment of his wing
and in ten fine notes dispels twenty cares.
Bells in the town alight with spring
warble the praise of Time, for he can bring
this season: chimes the merry heaven bears
make clear the fresh and ancient sound they sing.
All evil men intent on evil thing
falter, for in their cold unready ears
bells in the town alight with spring
make clear the fresh and ancient sound they sing.
Submitted by Andrew Todd
The winds that on the uplands softly lie,
Grow keener where the ice is lingering still
Where the first robin on the sheltered hill
Pipes blithely to the tune, "When Spring goes by!"
Hear him again, "Spring! Spring!" He seems to cry,
Haunting the fall of the flute-throated rill,
That keeps a gentle, constant, silver thrill,
While he is restless in his ecstasy.
Ah! the soft budding of the virginal woods,
Of the frail fruit trees by the vanishing lakes:
There's the new moon where the clear sunset floods,
A trace of dew upon the rose leaf sky;
And hark! what rapture the glad robin wakes-
"When Spring goes by; Spring! Spring! When
Spring goes by."
I heard a thousand blended notes
While in a grove I sat reclined,
In that sweet mood when pleasant thoughts
Bring sad thoughts to the mind.
To her fair works did Nature link
The human soul that through me ran;
And much it grieved my heart to think
What Man has made of Man.
Through primrose tufts, in that sweet bower,
The periwinkle trailed its wreaths;
And 'tis my faith that every flower
Enjoys the air it breathes.
The birds around me hopped and played,
Their thoughts I cannot measure -
But the least motion which they made
It seemed a thrill of pleasure.
The budding twigs spread out their fan
To catch the breezy air;
And I must think, do all I can,
That there was pleasure there.
If this belief from heaven be sent,
If such be Nature's holy plan,
Have I not reason to lament
What Man has made of Man?
Back in black I hit you hard
With my classic rock chick style
I shake my hips to zeppelin hits
And watch you as you smile
If you want blood you got it
I’ll bleed and give you mine
I’ll let you taste below my waist
And drink my vintage wine
I shook you all night long
With the classic guitar groove
I lean back in the white snake sack
As my hips start to move
Purple rainbow straddles above me
As it drips on my naked skin
High like a free bird in the the sky
I knock back tequila & gin
I walk over to the place we used to visit,
Where laughter filled the rims of each cup,
Flowing over with desire and subdued embraces.
Blue flowers floating on crimson waves
Making its way into the enchanting waters.
I reach for a petal,
The beauty of it stands visible,
Accepting rays of golden light from the sun,
Extending her arms out to sprinkle kisses upon
The silver sand below my feet.
Wind from the east brushes me with thoughts of you,
And the place where you once sat lit up from a falling star,
I hold on to the passion within,
And close my eyes to see the light on your face,
Only knowing that deep inside me,
You reside.
240
Ah, Moon—and Star!
You are very far—
But were no one
Farther than you—
Do you think I'd stop
For a Firmament—
Or a Cubit—or so?
I could borrow a Bonnet
Of the Lark—
And a Chamois' Silver Boot—
And a stirrup of an Antelope—
And be with you—Tonight!
But, Moon, and Star,
Though you're very far—
There is one—farther than you—
He—is more than a firmament—from Me—
So I can never go!
I found it at starry night.
It was tiny like a dot -
Against a black background – white.
“It’s impossible” – I thought.
I could see it in the sky.
It seemed unattainable,
And too distant, and too shy…
But it was undeniable.
I wanted to give you it
To make you feel my love.
Yet, I still delay, still quit.
Are you ready enough?
There is this rose,
In a garden beautiful;
And as life goes,
With thorns cruel.
Among the blossoms,
From earth seeds;
As the life possums,
And the roots concedes.
Like dragonflies above the trees,
In knowledge and abilities;
Finding out each contiguities,
In colored ways and poetries.
The blue of world beyond,
When clouds drift away;
Not to this earth bond,
Each night or new day.
With profound sky around,
So deep in its applique;
The horizon line is found,
Inside all this quixote.
Like dragonflies above the trees,
In knowledge and abilities;
Finding out each contiguities,
In colored ways and poetries.
Our world is so beautiful,
Daydreams fading into sun;
Their ways quite ignitible,
To break out of our ration.
Our spirt flies away high,
To get to the gleaming stars;
Let your imaginations try,
Radio waves distance pulsars.
Like dragonflies above the trees,
In knowledge and abilities;
Finding out each contiguities,
In colored ways and poetries.
I'm looking at this star tonight,
Wishing wishes would come true.
I wonder where I stand and look
If you see the same star too.
Does the darkness overwhelm you,
Where you stand and look tonight?
Do you see the star I’m watching?
Could we both stand in it's light?
Tonight although there's miles between us,
Perhaps our souls will somehow meet.
At the point this star begins,
Our hearts will find their beat.
Do you feel the need for someone,
To fulfill your empty life?
I'm wishing for the same thing,
As I watch this star tonight.
This gentle breeze I'm feeling,
Calms my heart of sorrow.
I'm wondering will it find you,
And soothe your heart tomorrow.
A hopeless born romantic,
Ever searching for true love.
Wishing wishes in the darkness
To this star that hangs above.
My eyes are sleep-laden,
I return home taking with me songs of fallen crops!
Everything held secret is gone, — how long a dream lasts?
The sunset returned with its rose hue, —it does not resemble one!
Two stars conversed all night long,
Our face remains on earth all night long!
The night has progressed well,
Yet, I hardly felt it all these years!
Those who I never saw in daylight, — they all came in gloaming’s time;
The ones I never saw in the dust of the road – in smoke – among the crowd —
In my dream, I heard splash of water in the container, — the sound of bangles!
Under the night sky, I discovered them – aided by starlight!
My eyes were all awake
I witnessed many colored-cloud-cover skies in the twilight and before the sunrise!
Alone, I returned to the rustic crop field so many days!
I tiptoed in a shady day by myself only like a flouncing butterfly
For so many a time!  —In many inauspicious time, covering the meandering path
My trance ended, — the playhouse of my imagination came tumbling down.
Both my eyes are sleep-laden
I return home taking with me songs of fallen crops!
Everything held secret is gone, —how long a dream lasts?
The sunset returned with its rose hue, — it does not resemble one!
Two stars conversed all night long.
[Original: Sharati Ratri Taratir Shathe Taratir e Kotha Hoy (Bengali) from  'From Jhora Palak - A Fallen Feather', Translation by: A.H. Jaffor Ullah]
A birthday poem for my wife
A star fell from heaven
Into my arms last night
As we walked arm in arm
Under a cloudy moonlight
Now heavens missing an angel
Because I’m holding her tight
You came into my life
Like the first ray of the sun
And I knew right away
That you were the one
There were no need for words
Just a small simple smile
My heart fluttered
With coming of the dawn
Because like the stars
I hoped you wouldn’t be gone
I wanted you there at my side
As each day fades to into night
I wanted you here
As my lover and wife
Your not going back
I won’t let you go
I love you too much
To ever let you go
A star in any other dialect remains a star
Stars give hope for a pleasant night
As they retract into their cocoon
They pave way for a pleasant daylight
They leave promises that they will be back
And we gaze at them as they vanish
I have a star that guides me
In matters of life and love
The star depicts humility
The star depicts soberness
The star is promising
The star is bright
With a little excitement
Do stars get wet when it rains?
May be in a shower in socks
When star-heart throbs faster
In ecstasy and the joy
of conquering the world of the sky
We love stars
For stars have a biblical symbol
Of a journey led by God
And my star is led by God
To a destination where it shall meet a heavenly moon
My star, my life, my love, my anchor and my morning blessing.
The leading man walked onto the stage,
the house lights dimmed, a hush descended,
the play was about to begin.
A drama, powerful and dramatic.
Breaths were held, not one body moved.
Suddenly, he spoke.
'Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm afraid to have to inform you,
that our leading lady has been struck down by laryngitis,
therefore, the show is cancelled'.
Mumblings, rumblings, getting louder and louder.
'Not good enough' shouted someone.
'Sit down and shut up', shouted another.
Uproar! Pandemonium!
'Where's the understudy then? ' came from a third.
'She's also indisposed, I'm sorry to say', but your money
will be refunded in the foyer'.
'I know the part', a voice called from way down in the orchestra pit.
'If you'll give me a minute,
I'll go and change, and this show can start'.
Everyone sat down in amazement! '.
This small tiny girl, was bravely taking on the big leading role.
A hush descended in the auditorium,
and the curtains parted.
As the finale ended, there was a standing ovation.
The audience were thrilled.
The girl took a bow.
The orchestra played 'God Save The Queen'
and everyone clapped and cheered.
For here on this stage, this night, a star was born!
©   Ernestine Northover
Your a thousand stars away.
The brightest shining star in the sky.
You are the glisten of the rain.
And the glistening of the stars.
Your a thousand starlights away.
But still you live in my heart.
I love you still the same.
If love could of saved you.
You would still be here today.
Love lives forever
So reall you did not die
So I never will forget you.
Well untill my time.
I will keep you in my heart.
When my time comes.
I will see you again
A star
Shining brightly by the moonlight
Like a flickering spotlight
Like the only one of it's kind
On Earth I feel like a giant
Compared to a star
A star
! A STAR!
A star shone out so very bright,
Not just a little, simple one,
But one so special in our sight,
A new life had begun.
A star shone out so very clear,
Hung way up in a cloudless sky,
Over a stable, where a dear
Babe, heard a lullaby.
A star shone out so very bold,
Showing where this child was laid,
With a halo of the purist gold
Around his head, displayed.
A star shone out so very fine,
Leading us all to worship him,
One small human, pure and divine,
Our cup's full to the brim.
A star shone out so very great,
Beaming down on that Christmas birth,
And bands of angels did cantillate,
Praising God across our earth.
The morning star have shined anew
More brightly like a mountain glow
Unnotice as it were seen well apart
For the eyes of a believer a bond
The lines of precepts made it grand!
You've travelled far to search souls
With God's Love, Mercy, Wisdom caress:
Bring forth a prize in tested avenues
As gospel notes a plentiful stride
Keeping you affront against evil's pride!
God gave you tests to endure to bear on
Never to lose sight against his presence;
For many are called only few are chosen
To take note of your lines by lines open
To the eyes of those who kept unbelieving!
You shall be like a seagull in the snow
Striving hard to walk afar a grinding pit:
For, you teach those who preferred weakness
To make them stronger least above yourself;
For a mission heartily sought, a reward's done!
For a good man out of the good treasure of
His heart brings forth that which is good;
An evil man out of the evil treasure of
His heart brings forth that which is evil:
For the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks!
Don't lose sight upon those remained unseen
By your naked eyes, a wisdom is purely bared;
To teach the weak to be strong and strong weak
Strikes a balance that your inner self find through!
As the wind, you shall carry sleepy souls
And amid your humble stride, lions kneel:
For your wings is beckoned like a prey
In the eyes of believers, great like light,
Home is your crowning days await you back!
But, remember of the sayings of old man prays:
Away with pride for it serves like rotten egg
In your heart keep love and faith a virtue seed;
Fly high like a seagull in the sky of hope
Remember that a tree is found in the ground!
In your reckoning, find faith, hope and love
Though the wonders of a marvelous work of God:
The Book of Books crying out of the dust
Serving like a living spirit in your heart.
The Book of Mormon is a pearl of great price
The doctrine and covenant of man with God!
And a star shines upon your heart.
This morning's passed so peacefully this morning
the time has come, I must be on my way
I only hope that when the fightings over
I'll be able to return to you one day
A long time since you kissed me with such passion
it makes me feel I'd really like to stay
we'll let the kids sleep on but when they waken
don't say I'm off to war just gone away
If the longing nights will make you sad and lonely
look up into the sky and you'll be saved
in  the heavens there's a star with my name on it
if we gaze at it then contact will be made
So brush away the tears that fill your eyes now
don't cry sweetheart I must be on my way
in the heavens there's a star with my name on it
if we gaze at it then contact will be made.
(For Aline)
Now by what whim of wanton chance
Do radiant eyes know sombre days?
And feet that shod in light should dance
Walk weary and laborious ways?
But rays from Heaven, white and whole,
May penetrate the gloom of earth;
And tears but nourish, in your soul,
The glory of celestial mirth.
The darts of toil and sorrow, sent
Against your peaceful beauty, are
As foolish and as impotent
As winds that blow against a star.
"There is my little trembling star," she said.
I looked; once more
The tender sea had put the sun to bed,
And heaven's floor
Was grey.
And nowhere yet in all that young night sky
Was any star,
But one that hung above the sea. Not high,
Nor very far
Away.
"I watch it every night," she said, and crept
Within my arm.
"Soft little star, I wish the angels kept
It safe from harm
Alway.
"I know it is afraid," she said; her eyes
Held a sweet tear.
"They send it all alone into the skies,
No big stars near,
To stay.
"They push it out before the sweet, kind moon
Lights up the sea.
They laugh because it fears the dark. `Soon, soon,
You'll braver be,'
They say.
"One night I climbed far up that high white tree
Beside the beach,
And tried to stretch my hand across the sea
And tried to reach
The grey.
"For something made me feel my heart would break
Unless that night
I in my hand my trembling star could take
And kiss its fright
Away.
"There only blew a strange wind chillily,
And clouds were swept.
The angels would not let my own star see
That someone wept.
I pray
"To Christ, who hears my little prayers each night,
That He will seek
Through all His skies for that sweet, frightened light,
And stoop His cheek
And say
"`My angels must not send so frail a thing
To light the West.
Lift up the little trembling star to cling
About my breast
Alway.'"
She'd sent me stars, two handfuls in that myst'ry package.
And when I opened  to unpack they came like swarms
of silver insects, bright and ready to invade.
A silver touch, I thought, the carpet was a-glitter,
I picked them up, so slowly, one by one
with lingering movements, 'cause her hands had known them.
There was a storm that came, without much warning.
It took my love and whirled it into spheres
that could not nourish it and breathing had to cease.
While I was searching for the force of evil
that sent this devil of a murderer  and  thief,
all other life went on without consideration
of devastation that had plunged in misery
my very soul, its spirit had been breached.
Just like the hurt that tends to linger,
in nerves of amputated limbs of man,
this phantom pain can safely be dismissed.
It would take time, I knew  to lose the memories,
and storms are really, don't you know, just acts of God.
Back to my reading now, which had been pushed
onto back burners, there was never any time .
When I perceived the slightest, softest touch upon my leg,
a star had fallen on  a wound that she had healed.
This silver, little, recalcitrant and noticeable,
this twinkling and obnoxious bitty star,
it did just sit there, twinkling like a hooligan.
Until two teardrops fell upon it from above.
This story ends here as it has not been determined,
if too much time has gone for any hope of rescue.
It is well known that love must, like any living matter,
maintain a breath or face a certain, final death.
What if, I ask with anxious trepidation,
a surrogate has been up in those clouds.
Could it just be the life of love was spared?
And would you tell me, show me, kindly, then,
I plead with all you Gods,  by Dawn's first light?
Once upon a shining star,
I made a wish and it came true.
I wished for someone for me to love,
and then I was loving you.
You quickly became my everything,
my hopes my desires and my dreams.
Though we had our share of problems,
they were never as bad as they seemed.
But apparently they were bad enough,
you decided to part and go your own way.
Life for me has been an empty void,
since I couldn't convince you to stay.
In all my life I have seen so much,
I never imagined there could be more.
But trying to face each day without you,
is the toughest thing I've had to endure.
The saddest part about you being gone,
is that I no longer have my trusted friend.
I guess I always thought you would stay,
and we'd be together until the end.
So today I'm searching for another star,
one that I can wish upon once more.
I'll wish for you to come back to me,
to be the lover and friend I so adore.
2004
Beautiful Star
Shine
For me at
Night
Because
I love
To see
You
Shining
At night
Breaking the waves to finally know,
What is the truth in this old game;
Places to hold come to and grow,
Bring some thoughts give it a flame.
Close in a place just like this,
Anything goes down to its start;
Blinking your eyes making a wish,
All roads lead to your own heart.
Somebody told me rumours and lies,
You had it going for too long;
What looked so natural is a surprise,
Inside and out rightly or wrong.
Bring it all back - bring it all back,
I never thought it came so close;
What I did miss was just a crack,
Anything comes and anything goes.
Breaking the waves finding the spear,
I feel tonight more confidential;
It took some years to be so austere,
For love and life are so vulnerable.
Peace with yourself all is forgotten,
What was or ought never to return;
Feelings like roots sometimes are rotten,
Passions like mornings ever to burn.
Bring it all back - bring it all back,
I never thought it came so close;
What I did miss was just a crack,
Anything comes and anything goes.
Star, star, you shine so bright
Lighting even my darkest night…
You make me smile
If only for a little while…
You remind me of the presence
Of my Lord most high,
As you shine so proudly in the sky…
I love a star lit night so true
It causes my emotions
To drift away
It makes me feel less blue…
When I am down and feel so out of place
Gazing upon your beauty causes a smile
To return to my face…
May I make a make believe wish upon you tonight
And can you tell me if my future will be bright
Stars, stars forever shine
For you are all favorites of mine
© Copyright 2000 Becky LaPrarie
Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art-
Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night
And watching, with eternal lids apart,
Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite,
The moving waters at their priestlike task
Of pure ablution round earth's human shores,
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask
Of snow upon the mountains and the moors-
No- yet still stedfast, still unchangeable,
Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast,
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell,
Awake for ever in a sweet unrest,
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,
And so live ever- or else swoon to death.
There you are in front of this
All the times are coming on
You are a night of sweet bliss
Twilights setting before it's gone
Flower in its earthy twist
The stream going by my feet
Everything in love I've missed
Loving you is love indeed
Come
Come and give
Everything to live for
Confusions are inside my heart
Going steps to other directions
Save me - come on do your part
I'd want so much your affections
Upon every clearance above
There you are standing for me
Giving me much of your love
Setting every directions free
Come
Come and give
Everything to live for
Come
Come and live
Everything and nothing more
Inside my heart I love you
Inside my heart I love you
Inside my heart I love you
You are confusions
Clearance above
You are - inclusions
Everything about love
There you are in front of this
All the times are coming on
You are a night of sweet bliss
Twilights setting before it's gone
Flower in its earthy twist
The stream going by my feet
Everything in love I've missed
Loving you is love indeed
As I stare upon you, Evening Star
From the land where sorrows reign
I envy you, oh star of night
Who never has known pain
Star you shine with hope and peace,
For all the world to see.
Brightest of the stars tonight,
One wish might you grant me?
I do not wish for the magic
Of the Fairies' song
Its sweet true tune would not survive
Amid our mortal throng.
Nor do I wish to own the power
To rule the earth and sea,
For power only robs a man
Of Strength and dignity.
I do not wish to love a man
Or another's love obtain
For love upon this world of hate,
Can only end in pain.
I dare not wish for life eternal
To never age a day,
To live and watch my loved ones die
Is a price I cannot pay.
Star, shining in the heavens.
Light and life you share
This one wish I ask of you
Might I join you there?
'Twas noontide of summer,
And mid-time of night;
And stars, in their orbits,
Shone pale, thro' the light
Of the brighter, cold moon,
'Mid planets her slaves,
Herself in the Heavens,
Her beam on the waves.
I gazed awhile
On her cold smile;
Too cold- too cold for me-
There pass'd, as a shroud,
A fleecy cloud,
And I turned away to thee,
Proud Evening Star,
In thy glory afar,
And dearer thy beam shall be;
For joy to my heart
Is the proud part
Thou bearest in Heaven at night,
And more I admire
Thy distant fire,
Than that colder, lowly light.
Lo! in the painted oriel of the West,
Whose panes the sunken sun incarnadines,
Like a fair lady at her casement, shines
The evening star, the star of love and rest!
And then anon she doth herself divest
Of all her radiant garments, and reclines
Behind the sombre screen of yonder pines,
With slumber and soft dreams of love oppressed.
O my beloved, my sweet Hesperus!
My morning and my evening star of love!
My best and gentlest lady! even thus,
As that fair planet in the sky above,
Dost thou retire unto thy rest at night,
And from thy darkened window fades the light.
They could never understand
what u set out 2 do
instead they chose 2
ridicule u
when u got weak
they loved the sight
of your dimming
and flickering starlight
How could they understand what was so intricate
2 be loved by so many, so intimate
they wanted 2 c your lifeless corpse
this way u could not alter the course
of ignorance that they have set
2 make my people forget
what they have done for much 2 long
2 just forget and carry on
I had loved u forever because of who u r
and now I mourn our fallen star
Speak softly; sun going down
Out of sight. Come near me now.
Dear dying fall of wings as birds
complain against the gathering dark...
Exaggerate the green blood in grass;
the music of leaves scraping space;
Multiply the stillness by one sound;
by one syllable of your name...
And all that is little is soon giant,
all that is rare grows in common beauty
To rest with my mouth on your mouth
as somewhere a star falls
And the earth takes it softly, in natural love...
Exactly as we take each other...
and go to sleep...
For beauty I am not a star,
There are others more perfect by far,
But my face I don't mind it,
For I am behind it,
It is those in front that I jar.
Go from me, summer friends, and tarry not:
I am no summer friend, but wintry cold,
A silly sheep benighted from the fold,
A sluggard with a thorn-choked garden plot.
Take counsel, sever from my lot your lot,
Dwell in your pleasant places, hoard your gold;
Lest you with me should shiver on the wold,
Athirst and hungering on a barren spot.
For I have hedged me with a thorny hedge,
I live alone, I look to die alone:
Yet sometimes, when a wind sighs through the sedge,
Ghosts of my buried years, and friends come back,
My heart goes sighing after swallows flown
On sometime summer's unreturning track.
Go and catch a falling star,
Get with child a mandrake root,
Tell me where all past years are,
Or who cleft the devil's foot,
Teach me to hear mermaids singing,
Or to keep off envy's stinging,
And find
What wind
Serves to advance an honest mind.
If thou be'st born to strange sights,
Things invisible to see,
Ride ten thousand days and nights,
Till age snow white hairs on thee,
Thou, when thou return'st, wilt tell me,
All strange wonders that befell thee,
And swear,
No where
Lives a woman true, and fair.
If thou find'st one, let me know,
Such a pilgrimage were sweet;
Yet do not, I would not go,
Though at next door we might meet;
Though she were true, when you met her,
And last, till you write your letter,
Yet she
Will be
False, ere I come, to two, or three.
Will you dance with me?
Will you set me free?
Will you love me true?
and I'll be there for you.
Will you care for us?
Without any fuss
coz Im in love with you
and you love me too
Will you stand by me?
Will you stay not flee
Will you pray at night
That I'll see the light
Will we be forever?
Now we are together
Your my guiding star
You know who you are
I watch the sunlight dance across your face of elegance,
And I've never been this swept away in romance......
All my thoughts just seem to settle on the breeze
When I'm lying wrapped up in your arms......
The whole world just fades away in nothingness;
The only thing I hear is the beating of your heart, oh tess!
Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight!
Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart!
I can feel magic floating in air, being with you gets me that way
I can feel you breathe, it’s washing over me, oh baby love empress
I'm melting into you, I can feel your charm, oh baby love countess
Nothing left to prove much, just to be caught up in your touch,
I can feel you breathe, just breathe, the slow and steady rush as such!
Keep me warm, Kiss me hard, hug me lot, feel my heart anyway.
Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight!
Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart!
I love you love for the love you gave and for time we had....
I love you love for the tempestuous thoughts and happiness I got;
I love you love for your support and for loving me a lot.
I love you love for teaching me love and making me beloved.
I love your for living with me 24/7 and seventy times seven!
I love you love for liberating my soul and lifting me to heaven.
Heigh-ho! Star light, star bright! First love star, I see tonight!
Ding, ding, dong! Ding, ding dong! Love bells jingle in my heart!
There was a red star stone, old poets feign,
Hung on the neck of Helen, the most fair
Of women, the world's wonder; gathering there,
Dripped ever one bright drop of blood; like rain
That ere it fails blows into mist again.
The crimson gout melted to roseate air,
And that divine white bosom, proudly bare,
Of all the woe it cost bore never a stain.
So you, serene and beauteous lady, rove
'Mid throngs of luckless ones who gaze and die.
And not a tremor of heartbreak, not a sigh
Nor strangling sob of strong men whelmed in love
Avails your calm heart by one beat to move
Or dims the cloudless heaven of your eye.
I wished upon a star one day
As it went shooting through the sky,
I wished upon a star one day
As it passed me by.
I wished upon a star one day
That my prays come true,
I wished upon a star one day
And then i thought of you.
I wished upon a star one day
And realised i was crying,
I wished upon a star one day
Then dreamed that i was dying.
I wished upon a star one day
But my wish never became real,
I wished upon a star one day
And realised what i feel....
Nothing!
Within a pub that's off the Strand and handy to the bar,
With pipe in mouth and mug in hand sat Jobson of the Star.
"Come, sit ye down, ye wond'ring wight, and have a yarn," says he.
"I can't," says I, "because to-night I'm off to Tripoli;
To Tripoli and Trebizond and Timbuctoo mayhap,
Or any magic name beyond I find upon the map.
I go errant trail to try, to clutch the skirts of Chance,
To make once more before I die the gesture of Romance."
The Jobson yawned above his jug, and rumbled: "Is that so?
Well, anyway, sit down, you mug, and have a drink before you go."
Now Jobson is a chum of mine, and in a dusty den,
Within the street that's known as Fleet, he wields a wicked pen.
And every night it's his delight, above the fleeting show,
To castigate the living Great, and keep the lowly low.
And all there is to know he knows, for unto him is spurred
The knowledge of the knowledge of the Thing That Has Occurred.
And all that is to hear he hears, for to his ear is whirled
The echo of the echo of the Sound That Shocks The World.
Let Revolutions rage and rend, and Kingdoms rise and fall,
There Jobson sits and smokes and spits, and writes about it all.
And so we jawed a little while on matters small and great;
He told me his cynic smile of graves affairs of state.
Of princes, peers and presidents, and folks beyond my ken,
He spoke as you and I might speak of ordinary men.
For Jobson is a scribe of worth, and has respect for none,
And all the mighty ones of earth are targets for his fun.
So when I said good-bye, says he, with his satyric leer:
"Too bad to go, when life is so damned interesting here.
The Government rides for a fall, and things are getting hot.
You'd better stick around, old pal; you'll miss an awful lot."
Yet still I went and wandered far, by secret ways and wide.
Adventure was the shining star I took to be my guide.
For fifty moons I followed on, and every moon was sweet,
And lit as if for me alone the trail before my feet.
From cities desolate with doom my moons swam up and set,
On tower and temple, tent and tomb, on mosque and minaret.
To heights that hailed the dawn I scaled, by cliff and chasm sheer;
To far Cathy I found my way, and fabolous Kashmir.
From camel-back I traced the track that bars the barren bled,
And leads to hell-and-blazes, and I followed where it led.
Like emeralds in sapphire set, and ripe for human rape,
I passed with passionate regret the Islands of Escape.
With death I clinched a time or two, and gave the brute a fall.
Hunger and cold and thirst I knew, yet...how I loved it all!
Then suddenly I seemed to tire of trecking up and town,
And longed for some domestic fire, and sailed for London Town.
And in a pub that's off the Strand, and handy to the bar,
With pipe in mouth and mug in hand sat Jobson of the Star.
"Hullo!" says he, "come, take a pew, and tell me where you've been.
It seems to me that lately you have vanished from the scene."
"I've been," says I, "to Kordovan and Kong and Calabar,
To Sarawak and Samarkand, to Ghat and Bolivar;
To Caracas and Guayaquil, to Lhasa  and Pekin,
To Brahmapurta and Brazil, to Bagdad and Benin.
I've sailed the Black Sea and the White, The Yellow and the Red,
The Sula and the Celebes, the Bering and the Dead.
I've climbed on Chimborazo, and I've wandered in Peru;
I've camped on Kinchinjunga, and I've crossed the Great Karoo.
I've drifted on the Hoang-ho, the Nile and Amazon;
I've swam the Tiber and the Po.." thus I was going on,
When Jobson yawned above his beer, and rumbled: "Is that so?...
It's been so damned exciting here, too bad you had to go.
We've had the devil of a slump; the market's gone to pot;
You should have stuck around, you chump, you've missed an awful lot."
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In haggard lands where ages brood, on plains burnt out and dim,
I broke the bread of brotherhood with ruthless men and grim.
By ways untrod I walked with God, by parched and bitter path;
In deserts dim I talked with Him, and learned to know His Wrath.
But in a pub that's off the Strand, sits Jobson every night,
And tells me what a fool I am, and maybe he is right.
For Jobson is a man of stamp, and proud of him am I;
And I am just a bloody tramp, and will be till I die.
Deleted for the sake of privacy
Oft on that latest star of purest light,
That hovers on the verge of morning gray,
I gaze, and think of eyes that gleam'd as bright,
As fondly linger'd, and yet pass’d away.
While this true heart in every throb can tell
'Tis changeless since the first fond hour we met—
While at thy name it wakes, as to a spell,
I feel 'tis not in nature to forget!
Thou canst not have forgot the tender hour
When we our parting tears together shed;
Thou canst not have forgot the fading flower
That ask'd thy hand to raise its drooping head.
Thy voice, thy looks, thy sighs, too truly spoke—
Oh! how could they deceive thyself and me?
No! death alone the bond of truth has broke,
And cast oblivion on the world and thee!
Little star, little star
Why you live so far?
You really look so naughty
When from afar you wink at me.
You shine so bright above the hills.
I watch you when all is still.
Keep waiting for you in city,
Live in high rise, it’s a pity.
At times when I fly at night.
You look evermore bright.
I look and look and look.
and sketch in my book.
I truly, truly miss you.
Somehow I know you too.
Please come and say hi,
Oh now am sleepy, bye.
I’ll go to hills on weekend
Stay up late, talk, my friend.
Little star, little star,
Oh, why you live so far…
For you, of you Anika, my grand daughter.
A zillion miles of night
caress the little star.
One amongst countless
it shines, knowing only itself,
bravely blazing.
For it knows no other way.
A zillion years of light
burst from the little star.
Wished upon, sung to,
followed, all its' shining life.
Little star. Little star.
Probing eyes lit on it;
photographed and spectroscoped it.
Analyzed; they deemed it -ordinary,
tagged it with a strange, forgettable name.
Pronounced it long ago
Dead.
Long ago dead, they said.
The little star,
dead.
Light in the night,
bright dreamy light,
white and a little blurred.
Dead? Absurd.
Something in us
may have died.
But
not our little star.
When the creation was new and all the stars shone in their first
splendor, the gods held their assembly in the sky and sang
`Oh, the picture of perfection! the joy unalloyed!'
But one cried of a sudden
---`It seems that somewhere there is a break in the chain of light
and one of the stars has been lost.'
The golden string of their harp snapped,
their song stopped, and they cried in dismay
---`Yes, that lost star was the best,
she was the glory of all heavens!'
From that day the search is unceasing for her,
and the cry goes on from one to the other
that in her the world has lost its one joy!
Only in the deepest silence of night the stars smile
and whisper among themselves
---`Vain is this seeking! unbroken perfection is over all!'
This proud ship is the Morning Star,
She is built of solid oak beams.
A smell of varnish and fresh boiled tar,
With brass that in sunshine gleams.
Her masts and rigging tell of ancient skills,
Sails unfurled awaiting a breeze.
Bellowing canvas at long last fills,
And her bows plough furrows in the seas.
A darkening sky a foreboding of storms,
With a hush distressing the soul.
Saint Anselm plays with fire, and forms,
Rain and thunder engulfing the whole.
Waves break over those bows of oak,
Men shudder and fight for a hold.
Many a prayer for calm was spoke,
Tall tales of despair were told.
Three days and nights, seas kept at bay,
Then calm and a time for sleep.
Sail makers repairs took many a day,
They were saved from that yawning deep.
The Morning Star is outward bound,
Chile is the course we've set,
Pass we not Cape Horn, safe and sound,
Those fathoms will be our yet.
Clear skies indeed with nary a cloud,
Heat and sickness is our lot.
Gazing at mast's that stand so proud,
Eyes blinded by a sun so hot.
This Maiden Voyage of the Morning Star,
An opus of men's iron will.
Shall we reach that land so far,
Lying here becalmed and still.
Sea-way has come at long last,
A movement, A ripple of sales.
Taking us on to the icy blast,
Of the Horns most fearsome gales.
We are past the Horn, No dreaded storm,
With sea as calm as a pond.
The Morning Star, is much in form.
For together we have forged a bond.
Homeward bound, cargo is filled,
Hearts beat higher with hope.
Loved one's waiting, need is stilled,
Hands blistered by the pull on rope.
Gliding into port sails are trimmed,
Shouts of command are heard
The memories of hardships strangely dimmed,
As Morning Star is likened to a bird.
If winter, you wake up at four
From behind the closed window-door,
Whilst struggling to fight wintry chill,
I'm tucked in my cosy bed still.
At six no sun still, nor dawn's clout
But day's diurnal reign's not in doubt,
Dawn slowly shows up crimson red,
Reluctant I stir in my bed.
But you still rule early dawn's sky
Heedless of that cockerel cry
Announcing the reign of the sun,
And at that rooster's rant you yawn.
Seven, you nearly kiss zenith,
Whilst sun shows its bright tip beneath,
And prepares to rule all the day,
You curtail your magical sway.
And when at tall zenith you set—
Not that life's horizon you met,
We of East whilst give you a pat,
In West perhaps they doff their hat.
O brightest morning star, Venus,
As twilight star you're loved no less.
____________________________ ___________
Venus stands out in skies— either as a morning star at times or an evening star at other times of the year.
____________________________________________< br> Musings | 24.01.2019 |
It was a lonely and dark night
I lost directions left and right
Then I saw a star so bright
Its lovely cosmic light
And now I feel all right
jibin joseph
My lucky star
So close yet so far
A star so pure so true
That make me feel better and yet blue
A star I can feel but touch
I can chase may be never catch
If u only knew….
How I wait for the night
To feel/see the flickering light
So I hope/wish…
All, that I know
Of a certain star
Is, it can throw
(Like the angled spar)
Now a dart of red,
Now a dart of blue
Till my friends have said
They would fain see, too,
My star that dartles the red and the blue!
Then it stops like a bird; like a flower, hangs furled:
They must solace themselves with the Saturn above it.
What matter to me if their star is a world?
Mine has opened its soul to me; therefore I love it.
The darkness I embrace
For there is nothing else to do.
A star, my star has crashed down
Into a peaceful lake of memories,
Into the cold land.
Her name no men will ever know-
Her beauty is now dust.
How did she deserve such pain?
Why did she past away?
Though answers won't come on angel wings
Nor they will ever speak her name;
My star is fallen in the deepest corner
Of my soul.
And there she remaines to stay,
For etirnety.
Till the Last day.
Star light, star bright,
The most beautiful star in my sight,
I wish I may, I wish I might,
To be with you for just one night.
To shoot through the sky in an endless flight,
To bask in your grace-
Yes, just one night.
But unfortunately you are but a star in the sky
And no matter how hard I try and try,
You’re still a star-
In that yonder sky.
I saw a shooting star, a falling star tonight
All green and gold, a peacock tail
(Perhaps it was a satellite)
Anyway it made a sign
Impressing the silent night upon me.
And I knew only that I loved you
That I was in love, that I love you -
All my knowledge deriving from that
I could be young and brilliant again
Upon the flight
Of falling full in love
And rising still, once more
To live beside the solemn sign.
O STAR of France!
The brightness of thy hope and strength and fame,
Like some proud ship that led the fleet so long,
Beseems to-day a wreck, driven by the gale--a mastless hulk;
And 'mid its teeming, madden'd, half-drown'd crowds,
Nor helm nor helmsman.
Dim, smitten star!
Orb not of France alone--pale symbol of my soul, its dearest hopes,
The struggle and the daring--rage divine for liberty,
Of aspirations toward the far ideal--enthusiast's dreams of
brotherhood,                                                 10
Of terror to the tyrant and the priest.
Star crucified! by traitors sold!
Star panting o'er a land of death--heroic land!
Strange, passionate, mocking, frivolous land.
Miserable! yet for thy errors, vanities, sins, I will not now rebuke
thee;
Thy unexampled woes and pangs have quell'd them all,
And left thee sacred.
In that amid thy many faults, thou ever aimedest highly,
In that thou wouldst not really sell thyself, however great the
price,
In that thou surely wakedst weeping from thy drugg'd sleep,        20
In that alone, among thy sisters, thou, Giantess, didst rend the ones
that shamed thee,
In that thou couldst not, wouldst not, wear the usual chains,
This cross, thy livid face, thy pierced hands and feet,
The spear thrust in thy side.
O star! O ship of France, beat back and baffled long!
Bear up, O smitten orb! O ship, continue on!
Sure, as the ship of all, the Earth itself,
Product of deathly fire and turbulent chaos,
Forth from its spasms of fury and its poisons,
Issuing at last in perfect power and beauty,                       30
Onward, beneath the sun, following its course,
So thee, O ship of France!
Finish'd the days, the clouds dispell'd,
The travail o'er, the long-sought extrication,
When lo! reborn, high o'er the European world,
(In gladness, answering thence, as face afar to face, reflecting
ours, Columbia,)
Again thy star, O France--fair, lustrous star,
In heavenly peace, clearer, more bright than ever,
Shall beam immortal.
He walks like a lover: mysterious and wise
chestnut hair hides two hazel eyes
leaving girls in his wake begging for more—
cause to him it's just the thrill of the lure.
He stares at you across the bar—
seductively undressing from afar;
you take the bait as he reels you in
thinking, 'I bet this guy always wins.'
something obscured in his character
I hypothesize an 'X' factor.
Pleasure floods your inner voice
that would-a otherwise made a sensible choice.
Your desire compounds his scheming loath—
there's a common thread that runs in you both.
You live for the craving of right now—
don't hesitate to seize or even ask how,
for it's over before it begins
and you're left alone with passion's sins.
What is it about him that excites to the core
while he's busy calculating his next score?
It's got to be hidden somewhere in the confide:
you've never been so satisfied.
It's not what he says but how he kisses down there—
how he stares and fights to care
that makes you believe you're one of the lucky ones
—or is it he's learned the innocent give better runs?
something obscured in his character
one guess it could be the Rock Star factor.
It wasn't even charm that made you falter—
I wouldn't be surprised if his words were chartered.
It was rather that he left all baggage at the claim
giving an illusion of a boy wildly untamed.
Where'd you get the notion: youth is invincible
defying your every previous principle?
It was his vulnerability—
it was too damn irresistable.
'Don't search too long or you'll end up alone'
is a piece of advice that should be ground like a stone
for aren't we all in this game of fishing
endlessly searching—for what we think is missing?
Heartbreak on the sleeve and confidence at the collar
is a recipe for the fiercest desire.
He keeps a record of his former ties—
truth in fact, he hates goodbyes.
At last I conclude indefinitely:
—whether or not it was worth it to me,
the something obscured in his character
is most certainly the Rock Star Factor.
'You look like a film star', I told her
She took the compliment well
But I did not go into detail
For some things, you never must tell
Eyes not unlike Bette Davis
Huge mouth like Jerrie Hall
A nose resembling Streisand's
And she really wasn't that tall
Her tits were like Paris Hilton's
Her neck was scraggy as hell
An arse like Jennifer Lopez
And what was that God-awful smell!
Show me the star
and I'll show you the lover
for lovers they oft speak
of stars and of moons
passed down through the years
from mother to daughter
and father to son
these words make a heart swoon
And so it remains
in this love of a game
that starlight and moonlight
are not something new
I fear we've learned nothing
but then did we have to
for moonlight and starlight
still do what they do.
Sky Star…., so far….., on a peaceful night….,
Blinking…, twinkling…, with a wondrous light…,
Sky Star…., so far…., sparkling so bright….,
Shimmering…, quivering…, on a peaceful night.
Celestial flame…. Glowing with delight….,
Gleaming, flashing, glimmering white….,
Radiant spirit…., such a beautiful sight…,
Sky Star…., so far….., on a peaceful night.
Go and catch a falling star,
Get with child a mandrake root,
Tell me where all past years are,
Or who cleft the devil's foot,
Teach me to hear mermaids singing,
Or to keep off envy's stinging,
And find
What wind
Serves to advance an honest mind.
If thou be'st born to strange sights,
Things invisible to see,
Ride ten thousand days and nights,
Till age snow white hairs on thee,
Thou, when thou return'st, wilt tell me,
All strange wonders that befell thee,
And swear,
No where
Lives a woman true, and fair.
If thou find'st one, let me know,
Such a pilgrimage were sweet;
Yet do not, I would not go,
Though at next door we might meet;
Though she were true, when you met her,
And last, till you write your letter,
Yet she
Will be
False, ere I come, to two, or three.
1       Star that bringest home the bee,
2     And sett'st the weary labourer free!
3     If any star shed peace, 'tis thou,
4         That send'st it from above,
5     Appearing when Heaven's breath and brow
6         Are sweet as hers we love.
7       Come to the luxuriant skies
8     Whilst the landscape's odours rise,
9     Whilst far-off lowing herds are heard,
10       And songs, when toil is done,
11   From cottages whose smoke unstirred
12       Curls yellow in the sun.
13     Star of lover's soft interviews,
14   Parted lovers on thee muse;
15   Their remembrancer in heaven
16       Of thrilling vows thou art,
17   Too delicious to be riven
18       By absence from the heart.
Bright star of beauty, on whose eyelids sit
A thousand nymph-like and enamour'd Graces,
The Goddesses of Memory and Wit,
Which there in order take their several places;
In whose dear bosom sweet delicious Love
Lays down his quiver, which he once did bear,
Since he that blessed Paradise did prove,
And leaves his mother's lap to sport him there.
Let others strive to entertain with words;
My soul is of a braver metal made;
I hold that vile which vulgar wit affords;
In me's that faith which Time cannot invade.
Let what I praise be still made good by you;
Be you most worthy, whilst I am most true.
If I could write a sonnet
on a star
Then bottle it and
toss it to the sea
Would it travel
to the corners of the Earth,
And echo there
the love I hold for thee? If I could write a sonnet
on the moon
Then bottle it and
toss it to the winds
Would it find your heart
So you may briefly know,
Where your love ends
Is where my love begins? If I could write a sonnet
on the sun
Then bottle it and
toss it throughout time
Would someone from a distant galaxy
Find no greater love
Than that was mine Yet, I cannot write a sonnet
on a star,
Nor moon, nor even on
the blazing sun,
Nor bottle words to send them
Where you are
Nor coerce our separate hearts
To beat as one And so my darling
You will never hear
The humble words of love
I wrote for thee
They remain encrypted,
tightly sealed
And yet they travel
on eternally
The star of my mishap impos'd this paining,
To spend the April of my years in wailing
That never found my fortune but in waning,
With still fresh cares my present woes assailing.
Yet her I blame not, though she might have blest me,
But my desire's wings, so high aspiring,
Now melted with the sun that hath possess'd me,
Down do I fall from off my high desiring,
And in my fall do cry for speedy speedy.
No pitying eye looks back upon my mourning,
No help I find when now most favor need I;
Th'ocean of my tears must drown me burning.
And this my death shall christen her anew,
And give the cruel Fair her title do.
Can it be the sun descending
O'er the level plain of water?
Or the Red Swan floating, flying,
Wounded by the magic arrow,
Staining all the waves with crimson,
With the crimson of its life-blood,
Filling all the air with splendor,
With the splendor of its plumage?
Yes; it is the sun descending,
Sinking down into the water;
All the sky is stained with purple,
All the water flushed with crimson!
No; it is the Red Swan floating,
Diving down beneath the water;
To the sky its wings are lifted,
With its blood the waves are reddened!
Over it the Star of Evening
Melts and trembles through the purple,
Hangs suspended in the twilight.
No; it is a bead of wampum
On the robes of the Great Spirit
As he passes through the twilight,
Walks in silence through the heavens.
This with joy beheld Iagoo
And he said in haste: "Behold it!
See the sacred Star of Evening!
You shall hear a tale of wonder,
Hear the story of Osseo,
Son of the Evening Star, Osseo!
"Once, in days no more remembered,
Ages nearer the beginning,
When the heavens were closer to us,
And the Gods were more familiar,
In the North-land lived a hunter,
With ten young and comely daughters,
Tall and lithe as wands of willow;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
She the wilful and the wayward,
She the silent, dreamy maiden,
Was the fairest of the sisters.
"All these women married warriors,
Married brave and haughty husbands;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Laughed and flouted all her lovers,
All her young and handsome suitors,
And then married old Osseo,
Old Osseo, poor and ugly,
Broken with age and weak with coughing,
Always coughing like a squirrel.
"Ah, but beautiful within him
Was the spirit of Osseo,
From the Evening Star descended,
Star of Evening, Star of Woman,
Star of tenderness and passion!
All its fire was in his bosom,
All its beauty in his spirit,
All its mystery in his being,
All its splendor in his language!
"And her lovers, the rejected,
Handsome men with belts of wampum,
Handsome men with paint and feathers.
Pointed at her in derision,
Followed her with jest and laughter.
But she said: 'I care not for you,
Care not for your belts of wampum,
Care not for your paint and feathers,
Care not for your jests and laughter;
I am happy with Osseo!'
'Once to some great feast invited,
Through the damp and dusk of evening,
Walked together the ten sisters,
Walked together with their husbands;
Slowly followed old Osseo,
With fair Oweenee beside him;
All the others chatted gayly,
These two only walked in silence.
"At the western sky Osseo
Gazed intent, as if imploring,
Often stopped and gazed imploring
At the trembling Star of Evening,
At the tender Star of Woman;
And they heard him murmur softly,
'Ah, showain nemeshin, Nosa!
Pity, pity me, my father!'
'Listen!' said the eldest sister,
'He is praying to his father!
What a pity that the old man
Does not stumble in the pathway,
Does not break his neck by falling!'
And they laughed till all the forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"On their pathway through the woodlands
Lay an oak, by storms uprooted,
Lay the great trunk of an oak-tree,
Buried half in leaves and mosses,
Mouldering, crumbling, huge and hollow.
And Osseo, when he saw it,
Gave a shout, a cry of anguish,
Leaped into its yawning cavern,
At one end went in an old man,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly;
From the other came a young man,
Tall and straight and strong and handsome.
"Thus Osseo was transfigured,
Thus restored to youth and beauty;
But, alas for good Osseo,
And for Oweenee, the faithful!
Strangely, too, was she transfigured.
Changed into a weak old woman,
With a staff she tottered onward,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly!
And the sisters and their husbands
Laughed until the echoing forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"But Osseo turned not from her,
Walked with slower step beside her,
Took her hand, as brown and withered
As an oak-leaf is in Winter,
Called her sweetheart, Nenemoosha,
Soothed her with soft words of kindness,
Till they reached the lodge of feasting,
Till they sat down in the wigwam,
Sacred to the Star of Evening,
To the tender Star of Woman.
"Wrapt in visions, lost in dreaming,
At the banquet sat Osseo;
All were merry, all were happy,
All were joyous but Osseo.
Neither food nor drink he tasted,
Neither did he speak nor listen;
But as one bewildered sat he,
Looking dreamily and sadly,
First at Oweenee, then upward
At the gleaming sky above them.
"Then a voice was heard, a whisper,
Coming from the starry distance,
Coming from the empty vastness,
Low, and musical, and tender;
And the voice said: 'O Osseo!
O my son, my best beloved!
Broken are the spells that bound you,
All the charms of the magicians,
All the magic powers of evil;
Come to me; ascend, Osseo!
"'Taste the food that stands before you:
It is blessed and enchanted,
It has magic virtues in it,
It will change you to a spirit.
All your bowls and all your kettles
Shall be wood and clay no longer;
But the bowls be changed to wampum,
And the kettles shall be silver;
They shall shine like shells of scarlet,
Like the fire shall gleam and glimmer.
"'And the women shall no longer
Bear the dreary doom of labor,
But be changed to birds, and glisten
With the beauty of the starlight,
Painted with the dusky splendors
Of the skies and clouds of evening!'
"What Osseo heard as whispers,
What as words he comprehended,
Was but music to the others,
Music as of birds afar off,
Of the whippoorwill afar off,
Of the lonely Wawonaissa
Singing in the darksome forest.
"Then the lodge began to tremble,
Straight began to shake and tremble,
And they felt it rising, rising,
Slowly through the air ascending,
From the darkness of the tree-tops
Forth into the dewy starlight,
Till it passed the topmost branches;
And behold! the wooden dishes
All were changed to shells of scarlet!
And behold! the earthen kettles
All were changed to bowls of silver!
And the roof-poles of the wigwam
Were as glittering rods of silver,
And the roof of bark upon them
As the shining shards of beetles.
"Then Osseo gazed around him,
And he saw the nine fair sisters,
All the sisters and their husbands,
Changed to birds of various plumage.
Some were jays and some were magpies,
Others thrushes, others blackbirds;
And they hopped, and sang, and twittered,
Perked and fluttered all their feathers,
Strutted in their shining plumage,
And their tails like fans unfolded.
"Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Was not changed, but sat in silence,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly,
Looking sadly at the others;
Till Osseo, gazing upward,
Gave another cry of anguish,
Such a cry as he had uttered
By the oak-tree in the forest.
"Then returned her youth and beauty,
And her soiled and tattered garments
Were transformed to robes of ermine,
And her staff became a feather,
Yes, a shining silver feather!
"And again the wigwam trembled,
Swayed and rushed through airy currents,
Through transparent cloud and vapor,
And amid celestial splendors
On the Evening Star alighted,
As a snow-flake falls on snow-flake,
As a leaf drops on a river,
As the thistledown on water.
"Forth with cheerful words of welcome
Came the father of Osseo,
He with radiant locks of silver,
He with eyes serene and tender.
And he said: `My son, Osseo,
Hang the cage of birds you bring there,
Hang the cage with rods of silver,
And the birds with glistening feathers,
At the doorway of my wigwam.'
"At the door he hung the bird-cage,
And they entered in and gladly
Listened to Osseo's father,
Ruler of the Star of Evening,
As he said: `O my Osseo!
I have had compassion on you,
Given you back your youth and beauty,
Into birds of various plumage
Changed your sisters and their husbands;
Changed them thus because they mocked you
In the figure of the old man,
In that aspect sad and wrinkled,
Could not see your heart of passion,
Could not see your youth immortal;
Only Oweenee, the faithful,
Saw your naked heart and loved you.
"`In the lodge that glimmers yonder,
In the little star that twinkles
Through the vapors, on the left hand,
Lives the envious Evil Spirit,
The Wabeno, the magician,
Who transformed you to an old man.
Take heed lest his beams fall on you,
For the rays he darts around him
Are the power of his enchantment,
Are the arrows that he uses.'
"Many years, in peace and quiet,
On the peaceful Star of Evening
Dwelt Osseo with his father;
Many years, in song and flutter,
At the doorway of the wigwam,
Hung the cage with rods of silver,
And fair Oweenee, the faithful,
Bore a son unto Osseo,
With the beauty of his mother,
With the courage of his father.
"And the boy grew up and prospered,
And Osseo, to delight him,
Made him little bows and arrows,
Opened the great cage of silver,
And let loose his aunts and uncles,
All those birds with glossy feathers,
For his little son to shoot at.
"Round and round they wheeled and darted,
Filled the Evening Star with music,
With their songs of joy and freedom
Filled the Evening Star with splendor,
With the fluttering of their plumage;
Till the boy, the little hunter,
Bent his bow and shot an arrow,
Shot a swift and fatal arrow,
And a bird, with shining feathers,
At his feet fell wounded sorely.
"But, O wondrous transformation!
`T was no bird he saw before him,
`T was a beautiful young woman,
With the arrow in her bosom!
"When her blood fell on the planet,
On the sacred Star of Evening,
Broken was the spell of magic,
Powerless was the strange enchantment,
And the youth, the fearless bowman,
Suddenly felt himself descending,
Held by unseen hands, but sinking
Downward through the empty spaces,
Downward through the clouds and vapors,
Till he rested on an island,
On an island, green and grassy,
Yonder in the Big-Sea-Water.
"After him he saw descending
All the birds with shining feathers,
Fluttering, falling, wafted downward,
Like the painted leaves of Autumn;
And the lodge with poles of silver,
With its roof like wings of beetles,
Like the shining shards of beetles,
By the winds of heaven uplifted,
Slowly sank upon the island,
Bringing back the good Osseo,
Bringing Oweenee, the faithful.
"Then the birds, again transfigured,
Reassumed the shape of mortals,
Took their shape, but not their stature;
They remained as Little People,
Like the pygmies, the Puk-Wudjies,
And on pleasant nights of Summer,
When the Evening Star was shining,
Hand in hand they danced together
On the island's craggy headlands,
On the sand-beach low and level.
"Still their glittering lodge is seen there,
On the tranquil Summer evenings,
And upon the shore the fisher
Sometimes hears their happy voices,
Sees them dancing in the starlight !"
When the story was completed,
When the wondrous tale was ended,
Looking round upon his listeners,
Solemnly Iagoo added:
"There are great men, I have known such,
Whom their people understand not,
Whom they even make a jest of,
Scoff and jeer at in derision.
From the story of Osseo
Let us learn the fate of jesters!"
All the wedding guests delighted
Listened to the marvellous story,
Listened laughing and applauding,
And they whispered to each other:
"Does he mean himself, I wonder?
And are we the aunts and uncles?"
Then again sang Chibiabos,
Sang a song of love and longing,
In those accents sweet and tender,
In those tones of pensive sadness,
Sang a maiden's lamentation
For her lover, her Algonquin.
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Ah me! when I parted from him,
Round my neck he hung the wampum,
As a pledge, the snow-white wampum,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"`I will go with you, he whispered,
Ah me! to your native country;
Let me go with you, he whispered,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Far away, away, I answered,
Very far away, I answered,
Ah me! is my native country,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I looked back to behold him,
Where we parted, to behold him,
After me he still was gazing,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"By the tree he still was standing,
By the fallen tree was standing,
That had dropped into the water,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!"
Such was Hiawatha's Wedding,
Such the dance of Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Such the story of Iagoo,
Such the songs of Chibiabos;
Thus the wedding banquet ended,
And the wedding guests departed,
Leaving Hiawatha happy
With the night and Minnehaha.
What kind of woman do you want
Star boy?
My intellect was never strong enough
to keep you.
You could never understand
the soil, the grass wasn´t  for you,
busy howling to the stars and the moon.
That map isn´t  mine, Star boy.
Is independence really a virtue?
I can hear you howling,
as I´m  laying in the grass.
I want to forget you,
but your fingerprints never left my body.
Forty-two years ago (to me if to no one else
The number is of some interest) it was a brilliant starry night
And the westward train was empty and had no corridors
So darting from side to side I could catch the unwonted sight
Of those almost intolerably bright
Holes, punched in the sky, which excited me partly because
Of their Latin names and partly because I had read in the textbooks
How very far off they were, it seemed their light
Had left them (some at least) long years before I was.
And this remembering now I mark that what
Light was leaving some of them at least then,
Forty-two years ago, will never arrive
In time for me to catch it, which light when
It does get here may find that there is not
Anyone left alive
To run from side to side in a late night train
Admiring it and adding noughts in vain.
I was staring at the midnight sky
Star gazing
I realized life and space is really
Amazing
overall breathless with universal
Devastation
Tonight it’s a simply sky
But it will keep changing
Letting my mind grow beyond further horizons
Looking at constellations from Virgo to Orion
Shooting stars and burning galaxies
This universe isn’t filled with fallacies
It’s filled with nitrogen and hydrogen gas
Expanding it is, but how long will it last
We love to stare at it endlessly
But do we really appreciate its beauty
Starlight
Starbright
Grant me my
One wish tonight
I wish I may
I wish I might
Be with you
And hold you tight
Star, that gives a gracious dole,
What am I to choose?
Oh, will it be a shriven soul,
Or little buckled shoes?
Shall I wish a wedding-ring,
Bright and thin and round,
Or plead you send me covering-
A newly spaded mound?
Gentle beam, shall I implore
Gold, or sailing-ships,
Or beg I hate forevermore
A pair of lying lips?
Swing you low or high away,
Burn you hot or dim;
My only wish I dare not say-
Lest you should grant me him.
no arms
to break my fall
I wait
hollow-eyed
for sleep
silent sentry
in the jungle night
I lie cemented
in self
counting black holes
in space
where once
there were stars
to wish on
'star light star bright'
eons passed by
into earth's womb
sunk into oceans
diluted into galaxies
and you're the same
'twinkle twinkle
little star...'
when the ancient me
roamed the length and breadth
of the expanding space
and intriguing earth
you were the one guiding me
now with not much wonder
left in life
earth bound woes
never allowing a gaze
'spent and tired'
night after night
i dissolve into
the dark spaces
you traverse
before you shine
22oct2009
20.11hrs
The star that surrounds me,
The star has gone away.
Can we look forward to seeing it again?
Is it death calling for me?
Is it light from up above.
No one knows except for me.
It's hope and laughter crashing me down into the street.
I need you.
Star of my heart, I follow from afar.
Sweet Love on high, lead on where shepherds are,
Where Time is not, and only dreamers are.
Star from of old, the Magi-Kings are dead
And a foolish Saxon seeks the manger-bed.
O lead me to Jehovah's child
Across this dreamland lone and wild,
Then will I speak this prayer unsaid,
And kiss his little haloed head —
"My star and I, we love thee, little child."
Except the Christ be born again to-night
In dreams of all men, saints and sons of shame,
The world will never see his kingdom bright.
Stars of all hearts, lead onward thro' the night
Past death-black deserts, doubts without a name,
Past hills of pain and mountains of new sin
To that far sky where mystic births begin,
Where dreaming ears the angel-song shall win.
Our Christmas shall be rare at dawning there,
And each shall find his brother fair,
Like a little child within:
All hearts of the earth shall find new birth
And wake, no more to sin.
Star of the East, that long ago
Brought wise men on their way
Where, angels singing to and fro,
The Child of Bethlehem lay--
Above that Syrian hill afar
Thou shinest out to-night, O Star!
Star of the East, the night were drear
But for the tender grace
That with thy glory comes to cheer
Earth's loneliest, darkest place;
For by that charity we see
Where there is hope for all and me.
Star of the East! show us the way
In wisdom undefiled
To seek that manger out and lay
Our gifts before the child--
To bring our hearts and offer them
Unto our King in Bethlehem!
Star of the sea
Your home is the sea
On the bottom of the sea
You live
The sea is clear
Just like a window of a house
You can see through it
At the sea
When you look through it
You can see the bottom of the sea
Very clear
And it is
Also like a window
Star of the sea
There in your
Home are other fish
That belong in your home with you
So you all have to share it
Star of the sea
I hope nobody steal you from your home
Because that would be ashame
In the sea is where you belong
Sometimes there are scuba divers
Diving down in your home
I hope they leave you
All alone
Let me tell you something
If the sea didn't existed
None of you would be around
Good bless you
Star of the sea
You’re like a star
In a vast oblivion
Sparkling more than ever
Than all the earth’s diamonds
This velvety crown
Of royal curtsy
Kissing your path
From where your feet
Touches the ground
As I catch miracles
From the noble one
In this candle
Of purity flame
Muttering hope
And courage
That one day, I’ll meet
A divine glory
In your soul
From where it touches
My own.
We search amongst the stars for life
Like moths forever seeking light
We cannot bear just being alone
Beam me! Beam me! Scottie! Home!
Now we can hear the moon from Mars
And Titan's vicious thunderstorms
I wonder if its best to be
Right here on earth and just being me.
Death star did they make,
To rule over the universe,
but the Force had won.
Empire Strikes Back Haiku
Luke I am your fa-
-ther, No it cannot be true,
My father is dead.
Search your feelings, know its true,
'No no' luke says but he does know.
The Return of the Jedi Haiku
Last fight is coming,
Jedi comes to save the day,
Emperor is dead.
So you're writing for a paper?  Well, it's nothing very new
To be writing yards of drivel for a tidy little screw;
You are young and educated, and a clever chap you are,
But you'll never run a paper like the CAMBAROORA STAR.
Though in point of education I am nothing but a dunce,
I myself -- you mayn't believe it -- helped to run a paper once
With a chap on Cambaroora, by the name of Charlie Brown,
And I'll tell you all about it if you'll take the story down.
On a golden day in summer, when the sunrays were aslant,
Brown arrived in Cambaroora with a little printing plant
And his worldly goods and chattels -- rather damaged on the way --
And a weary-looking woman who was following the dray.
He had bought an empty humpy, and, instead of getting tight,
Why, the diggers heard him working like a lunatic all night:
And next day a sign of canvas, writ in characters of tar,
Claimed the humpy as the office of the CAMBAROORA STAR.
Well, I cannot read, that's honest, but I had a digger friend
Who would read the paper to me from the title to the end;
And the STAR contained a leader running thieves and spielers down,
With a slap against claim-jumping, and a poem made by Brown.
Once I showed it to a critic, and he said 'twas very fine,
Though he wasn't long in finding glaring faults in every line;
But it was a song of Freedom -- all the clever critic said
Couldn't stop that song from ringing, ringing, ringing in my head.
So I went where Brown was working in his little hut hard by:
`My old mate has been a-reading of your writings, Brown,' said I --
`I have studied on your leader, I agree with what you say,
You have struck the bed-rock certain, and there ain't no get-away;
Your paper's just the thumper for a young and growing land,
And your principles is honest, Brown; I want to shake your hand,
And if there's any lumping in connection with the STAR,
Well, I'll find the time to do it, and I'll help you -- there you are!'
Brown was every inch a digger (bronzed and bearded in the South),
But there seemed a kind of weakness round the corners of his mouth
When he took the hand I gave him; and he gripped it like a vice,
While he tried his best to thank me, and he stuttered once or twice.
But there wasn't need for talking -- we'd the same old loves and hates,
And we understood each other -- Charlie Brown and I were mates.
So we worked a little `paddock' on a place they called the `Bar',
And we sank a shaft together, and at night we worked the STAR.
Charlie thought and did his writing when his work was done at night,
And the missus used to `set' it near as quick as he could write.
Well, I didn't shirk my promise, and I helped the thing, I guess,
For at night I worked the lever of the crazy printing-press;
Brown himself would do the feeding, and the missus used to `fly' --
She is flying with the angels, if there's justice up on high,
For she died on Cambaroora when the STAR began to go,
And was buried like the diggers buried diggers long ago.
.    .    .    .    .
Lord, that press!  It was a jumper -- we could seldom get it right,
And were lucky if we averaged a hundred in the night.
Many nights we'd sit together in the windy hut and fold,
And I helped the thing a little when I struck a patch of gold;
And we battled for the diggers as the papers seldom do,
Though when the diggers errored, why, we touched the diggers too.
Yet the paper took the fancy of that roaring mining town,
And the diggers sent a nugget with their sympathy to Brown.
Oft I sat and smoked beside him in the listening hours of night,
When the shadows from the corners seemed to gather round the light --
When his weary, aching fingers, closing stiffly round the pen,
Wrote defiant truth in language that could touch the hearts of men --
Wrote until his eyelids shuddered -- wrote until the East was grey:
Wrote the stern and awful lessons that were taught him in his day;
And they knew that he was honest, and they read his smallest par,
For I think the diggers' Bible was the CAMBAROORA STAR.
Diggers then had little mercy for the loafer and the scamp --
If there wasn't law and order, there was justice in the camp;
And the manly independence that is found where diggers are
Had a sentinel to guard it in the CAMBAROORA STAR.
There was strife about the Chinamen, who came in days of old
Like a swarm of thieves and loafers when the diggers found the gold --
Like the sneaking fortune-hunters who are always found behind,
And who only shepherd diggers till they track them to the `find'.
Charlie wrote a slinging leader, calling on his digger mates,
And he said:  `We think that Chinkies are as bad as syndicates.
What's the good of holding meetings where you only talk and swear?
Get a move upon the Chinkies when you've got an hour to spare.'
It was nine o'clock next morning when the Chows began to swarm,
But they weren't so long in going, for the diggers' blood was warm.
Then the diggers held a meeting, and they shouted:  `Hip hoorar!
Give three ringing cheers, my hearties, for the CAMBAROORA STAR.'
But the Cambaroora petered, and the diggers' sun went down,
And another sort of people came and settled in the town;
The reefing was conducted by a syndicate or two,
And they changed the name to `Queensville', for their blood was very blue.
They wanted Brown to help them put the feathers in their nests,
But his leaders went like thunder for their vested interests,
And he fought for right and justice and he raved about the dawn
Of the reign of Man and Reason till his ads. were all withdrawn.
He was offered shares for nothing in the richest of the mines,
And he could have made a fortune had he run on other lines;
They abused him for his leaders, and they parodied his rhymes,
And they told him that his paper was a mile behind the times.
`Let the times alone,' said Charlie, `they're all right, you needn't fret;
For I started long before them, and they haven't caught me yet.
But,' says he to me, `they're coming, and they're not so very far --
Though I left the times behind me they are following the STAR.
`Let them do their worst,' said Charlie, `but I'll never drop the reins
While a single scrap of paper or an ounce of ink remains:
I've another truth to tell them, though they tread me in the dirt,
And I'll print another issue if I print it on my shirt.'
So we fought the battle bravely, and we did our very best
Just to make the final issue quite as lively as the rest.
And the swells in Cambaroora talked of feathers and of tar
When they read the final issue of the CAMBAROORA STAR.
Gold is stronger than the tongue is -- gold is stronger than the pen:
They'd have squirmed in Cambaroora had I found a nugget then;
But in vain we scraped together every penny we could get,
For they fixed us with their boycott, and the plant was seized for debt.
'Twas a storekeeper who did it, and he sealed the paper's doom,
Though we gave him ads. for nothing when the STAR began to boom:
'Twas a paltry bill for tucker, and the crawling, sneaking clown
Sold the debt for twice its value to the men who hated Brown.
I was digging up the river, and I swam the flooded bend
With a little cash and comfort for my literary friend.
Brown was sitting sad and lonely with his head bowed in despair,
While a single tallow candle threw a flicker on his hair,
And the gusty wind that whistled through the crannies of the door
Stirred the scattered files of paper that were lying on the floor.
Charlie took my hand in silence -- and by-and-by he said:
`Tom, old mate, we did our damnedest, but the brave old STAR is dead.'
.    .    .    .    .
Then he stood up on a sudden, with a face as pale as death,
And he gripped my hand a moment, while he seemed to fight for breath:
`Tom, old friend,' he said, `I'm going, and I'm ready to -- to start,
For I know that there is something -- something crooked with my heart.
Tom, my first child died.  I loved her even better than the pen --
Tom -- and while the STAR was dying, why, I felt like I did THEN.
.    .    .    .    .
Listen!  Like the distant thunder of the rollers on the bar --
Listen, Tom! I hear the -- diggers -- shouting:  `Bully for the STAR!''
Lo! in the paintedoriel of the West,
Whose panes the sunken sun incarnadines,
Like a fair lady at her casement, shines
The evening star, the star of love and rest!
And then anon she doth herself divest
Of all her radiant garments, and reclines
Behind the sombre screen of yonder pines,
With slumber and soft dreams of love oppressed.
O my beloved, my sweet Hesperus!
My morning and my evening star of love!
My best and gentlest lady! even thus,
As that fair planet in the sky above,
Dost thou retire unto thy rest at night,
And from thy darkened window fades the light.
Smiles soon abate; the boisterous throes
Of anger long burst forth;
Inconstantly the south-wind blows,
But steadily the north.
Thy star, O Venus! often changes
Its radiant seat above,
The chilling pole-star never ranges --
'Tis thus with Hate and Love.
A star is gone! a star is gone!
There is a blank in Heaven;
One of the cherub choir has done
His airy course this even.
He sat upon the orb of fire
That hung for ages there,
And lent his music to the choir
That haunts the nightly air.
But when his thousand years are pass'd,
With a cherubic sigh
He vanish'd with his car at last,
For even cherubs die!
Hear how his angel-brothers mourn -
The minstrels of the spheres -
Each chiming sadly in his turn
And dropping splendid tears.
The planetary sisters all
Join in the fatal song,
And weep this hapless brother's fall,
Who sang with them so long.
But deepest of the choral band
The Lunar Spirit sings,
And with a bass-according hand
Sweeps all her sullen strings.
From the deep chambers of the dome
Where sleepless Uriel lies,
His rude harmonic thunders come
Mingled with mighty sighs.
The thousand car-bourne cherubim,
The wandering eleven,
All join to chant the dirge of him
Who fell just now from Heaven.
The North Star whispers: "You are one
Of those whose course no chance can change.
You blunder, but are not undone,
Your spirit-task is fixed and strange.
"When here you walk, a bloodless shade,
A singer all men else forget.
Your chants of hammer, forge and spade
Will move the prarie-village yet.
"That young, stiff-necked, reviling town
Beholds your fancies on her walls,
And paints them out or tears them down,
Or bars them from her feasting halls.
"Yet shall the fragments still remain;
Yet shall remain some watch-tower strong
That ivy-vines will not disdain,
Haunted and trembling with your song.
"Your flambeau in the dusk shall burn,
Flame high in storms, flame white and clear;
Your ghost in gleaming robes return
And burn a deathless incense here."
Thou father of the children of my brain
By thee engendered in my willing heart,
How can I thank thee for this gift of art
Poured out so lavishly, and not in vain.
What thou created never more can die,
Thy fructifying power lives in me
And I conceive, knowing it is by thee,
Dear other parent of my poetry!
For I was but a shadow with a name,
Perhaps by now the very name's forgot;
So strange is Fate that it has been my lot
To learn through thee the presence of that aim
Which evermore must guide me. All unknown,
By me unguessed, by thee not even dreamed,
A tree has blossomed in a night that seemed
Of stubborn, barren wood. For thou hast sown
This seed of beauty in a ground of truth.
Humbly I dedicate myself, and yet
I tremble with a sudden fear to set
New music ringing through my fading youth.
Can it be the sun descending
O'er the level plain of water?
Or the Red Swan floating, flying,
Wounded by the magic arrow,
Staining all the waves with crimson,
With the crimson of its life-blood,
Filling all the air with splendor,
With the splendor of its plumage?
Yes; it is the sun descending,
Sinking down into the water;
All the sky is stained with purple,
All the water flushed with crimson!
No; it is the Red Swan floating,
Diving down beneath the water;
To the sky its wings are lifted,
With its blood the waves are reddened!
Over it the Star of Evening
Melts and trembles through the purple,
Hangs suspended in the twilight.
No; it is a bead of wampum
On the robes of the Great Spirit
As he passes through the twilight,
Walks in silence through the heavens.
This with joy beheld Iagoo
And he said in haste: "Behold it!
See the sacred Star of Evening!
You shall hear a tale of wonder,
Hear the story of Osseo,
Son of the Evening Star, Osseo!
"Once, in days no more remembered,
Ages nearer the beginning,
When the heavens were closer to us,
And the Gods were more familiar,
In the North-land lived a hunter,
With ten young and comely daughters,
Tall and lithe as wands of willow;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
She the wilful and the wayward,
She the silent, dreamy maiden,
Was the fairest of the sisters.
"All these women married warriors,
Married brave and haughty husbands;
Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Laughed and flouted all her lovers,
All her young and handsome suitors,
And then married old Osseo,
Old Osseo, poor and ugly,
Broken with age and weak with coughing,
Always coughing like a squirrel.
"Ah, but beautiful within him
Was the spirit of Osseo,
From the Evening Star descended,
Star of Evening, Star of Woman,
Star of tenderness and passion!
All its fire was in his bosom,
All its beauty in his spirit,
All its mystery in his being,
All its splendor in his language!
"And her lovers, the rejected,
Handsome men with belts of wampum,
Handsome men with paint and feathers.
Pointed at her in derision,
Followed her with jest and laughter.
But she said: 'I care not for you,
Care not for your belts of wampum,
Care not for your paint and feathers,
Care not for your jests and laughter;
I am happy with Osseo!'
'Once to some great feast invited,
Through the damp and dusk of evening,
Walked together the ten sisters,
Walked together with their husbands;
Slowly followed old Osseo,
With fair Oweenee beside him;
All the others chatted gayly,
These two only walked in silence.
"At the western sky Osseo
Gazed intent, as if imploring,
Often stopped and gazed imploring
At the trembling Star of Evening,
At the tender Star of Woman;
And they heard him murmur softly,
'Ah, showain nemeshin, Nosa!
Pity, pity me, my father!'
'Listen!' said the eldest sister,
'He is praying to his father!
What a pity that the old man
Does not stumble in the pathway,
Does not break his neck by falling!'
And they laughed till all the forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"On their pathway through the woodlands
Lay an oak, by storms uprooted,
Lay the great trunk of an oak-tree,
Buried half in leaves and mosses,
Mouldering, crumbling, huge and hollow.
And Osseo, when he saw it,
Gave a shout, a cry of anguish,
Leaped into its yawning cavern,
At one end went in an old man,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly;
From the other came a young man,
Tall and straight and strong and handsome.
"Thus Osseo was transfigured,
Thus restored to youth and beauty;
But, alas for good Osseo,
And for Oweenee, the faithful!
Strangely, too, was she transfigured.
Changed into a weak old woman,
With a staff she tottered onward,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly!
And the sisters and their husbands
Laughed until the echoing forest
Rang with their unseemly laughter.
"But Osseo turned not from her,
Walked with slower step beside her,
Took her hand, as brown and withered
As an oak-leaf is in Winter,
Called her sweetheart, Nenemoosha,
Soothed her with soft words of kindness,
Till they reached the lodge of feasting,
Till they sat down in the wigwam,
Sacred to the Star of Evening,
To the tender Star of Woman.
"Wrapt in visions, lost in dreaming,
At the banquet sat Osseo;
All were merry, all were happy,
All were joyous but Osseo.
Neither food nor drink he tasted,
Neither did he speak nor listen;
But as one bewildered sat he,
Looking dreamily and sadly,
First at Oweenee, then upward
At the gleaming sky above them.
"Then a voice was heard, a whisper,
Coming from the starry distance,
Coming from the empty vastness,
Low, and musical, and tender;
And the voice said: 'O Osseo!
O my son, my best beloved!
Broken are the spells that bound you,
All the charms of the magicians,
All the magic powers of evil;
Come to me; ascend, Osseo!
"'Taste the food that stands before you:
It is blessed and enchanted,
It has magic virtues in it,
It will change you to a spirit.
All your bowls and all your kettles
Shall be wood and clay no longer;
But the bowls be changed to wampum,
And the kettles shall be silver;
They shall shine like shells of scarlet,
Like the fire shall gleam and glimmer.
"'And the women shall no longer
Bear the dreary doom of labor,
But be changed to birds, and glisten
With the beauty of the starlight,
Painted with the dusky splendors
Of the skies and clouds of evening!'
"What Osseo heard as whispers,
What as words he comprehended,
Was but music to the others,
Music as of birds afar off,
Of the whippoorwill afar off,
Of the lonely Wawonaissa
Singing in the darksome forest.
"Then the lodge began to tremble,
Straight began to shake and tremble,
And they felt it rising, rising,
Slowly through the air ascending,
From the darkness of the tree-tops
Forth into the dewy starlight,
Till it passed the topmost branches;
And behold! the wooden dishes
All were changed to shells of scarlet!
And behold! the earthen kettles
All were changed to bowls of silver!
And the roof-poles of the wigwam
Were as glittering rods of silver,
And the roof of bark upon them
As the shining shards of beetles.
"Then Osseo gazed around him,
And he saw the nine fair sisters,
All the sisters and their husbands,
Changed to birds of various plumage.
Some were jays and some were magpies,
Others thrushes, others blackbirds;
And they hopped, and sang, and twittered,
Perked and fluttered all their feathers,
Strutted in their shining plumage,
And their tails like fans unfolded.
"Only Oweenee, the youngest,
Was not changed, but sat in silence,
Wasted, wrinkled, old, and ugly,
Looking sadly at the others;
Till Osseo, gazing upward,
Gave another cry of anguish,
Such a cry as he had uttered
By the oak-tree in the forest.
"Then returned her youth and beauty,
And her soiled and tattered garments
Were transformed to robes of ermine,
And her staff became a feather,
Yes, a shining silver feather!
"And again the wigwam trembled,
Swayed and rushed through airy currents,
Through transparent cloud and vapor,
And amid celestial splendors
On the Evening Star alighted,
As a snow-flake falls on snow-flake,
As a leaf drops on a river,
As the thistledown on water.
"Forth with cheerful words of welcome
Came the father of Osseo,
He with radiant locks of silver,
He with eyes serene and tender.
And he said: `My son, Osseo,
Hang the cage of birds you bring there,
Hang the cage with rods of silver,
And the birds with glistening feathers,
At the doorway of my wigwam.'
"At the door he hung the bird-cage,
And they entered in and gladly
Listened to Osseo's father,
Ruler of the Star of Evening,
As he said: `O my Osseo!
I have had compassion on you,
Given you back your youth and beauty,
Into birds of various plumage
Changed your sisters and their husbands;
Changed them thus because they mocked you
In the figure of the old man,
In that aspect sad and wrinkled,
Could not see your heart of passion,
Could not see your youth immortal;
Only Oweenee, the faithful,
Saw your naked heart and loved you.
"`In the lodge that glimmers yonder,
In the little star that twinkles
Through the vapors, on the left hand,
Lives the envious Evil Spirit,
The Wabeno, the magician,
Who transformed you to an old man.
Take heed lest his beams fall on you,
For the rays he darts around him
Are the power of his enchantment,
Are the arrows that he uses.'
"Many years, in peace and quiet,
On the peaceful Star of Evening
Dwelt Osseo with his father;
Many years, in song and flutter,
At the doorway of the wigwam,
Hung the cage with rods of silver,
And fair Oweenee, the faithful,
Bore a son unto Osseo,
With the beauty of his mother,
With the courage of his father.
"And the boy grew up and prospered,
And Osseo, to delight him,
Made him little bows and arrows,
Opened the great cage of silver,
And let loose his aunts and uncles,
All those birds with glossy feathers,
For his little son to shoot at.
"Round and round they wheeled and darted,
Filled the Evening Star with music,
With their songs of joy and freedom
Filled the Evening Star with splendor,
With the fluttering of their plumage;
Till the boy, the little hunter,
Bent his bow and shot an arrow,
Shot a swift and fatal arrow,
And a bird, with shining feathers,
At his feet fell wounded sorely.
"But, O wondrous transformation!
`T was no bird he saw before him,
`T was a beautiful young woman,
With the arrow in her bosom!
"When her blood fell on the planet,
On the sacred Star of Evening,
Broken was the spell of magic,
Powerless was the strange enchantment,
And the youth, the fearless bowman,
Suddenly felt himself descending,
Held by unseen hands, but sinking
Downward through the empty spaces,
Downward through the clouds and vapors,
Till he rested on an island,
On an island, green and grassy,
Yonder in the Big-Sea-Water.
"After him he saw descending
All the birds with shining feathers,
Fluttering, falling, wafted downward,
Like the painted leaves of Autumn;
And the lodge with poles of silver,
With its roof like wings of beetles,
Like the shining shards of beetles,
By the winds of heaven uplifted,
Slowly sank upon the island,
Bringing back the good Osseo,
Bringing Oweenee, the faithful.
"Then the birds, again transfigured,
Reassumed the shape of mortals,
Took their shape, but not their stature;
They remained as Little People,
Like the pygmies, the Puk-Wudjies,
And on pleasant nights of Summer,
When the Evening Star was shining,
Hand in hand they danced together
On the island's craggy headlands,
On the sand-beach low and level.
"Still their glittering lodge is seen there,
On the tranquil Summer evenings,
And upon the shore the fisher
Sometimes hears their happy voices,
Sees them dancing in the starlight !"
When the story was completed,
When the wondrous tale was ended,
Looking round upon his listeners,
Solemnly Iagoo added:
"There are great men, I have known such,
Whom their people understand not,
Whom they even make a jest of,
Scoff and jeer at in derision.
From the story of Osseo
Let us learn the fate of jesters!"
All the wedding guests delighted
Listened to the marvellous story,
Listened laughing and applauding,
And they whispered to each other:
"Does he mean himself, I wonder?
And are we the aunts and uncles?"
Then again sang Chibiabos,
Sang a song of love and longing,
In those accents sweet and tender,
In those tones of pensive sadness,
Sang a maiden's lamentation
For her lover, her Algonquin.
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Ah me! when I parted from him,
Round my neck he hung the wampum,
As a pledge, the snow-white wampum,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"`I will go with you, he whispered,
Ah me! to your native country;
Let me go with you, he whispered,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"Far away, away, I answered,
Very far away, I answered,
Ah me! is my native country,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I looked back to behold him,
Where we parted, to behold him,
After me he still was gazing,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"By the tree he still was standing,
By the fallen tree was standing,
That had dropped into the water,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!
"When I think of my beloved,
Ah me! think of my beloved,
When my heart is thinking of him,
O my sweetheart, my Algonquin!"
Such was Hiawatha's Wedding,
Such the dance of Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Such the story of Iagoo,
Such the songs of Chibiabos;
Thus the wedding banquet ended,
And the wedding guests departed,
Leaving Hiawatha happy
With the night and Minnehaha.
THE SUN stepped down from his golden throne,
And lay in the silent sea,
And the Lily had folded her satin leaves,
For a sleepy thing was she;
What is the Lily dreaming of?
Why crisp the waters blue?
See, see, she is lifting her varnished lid!
Her white leaves are glistening through!
The Rose is cooling his burning cheek
In the lap of the breathless tide; —
The Lily hath sisters fresh and fair,
That would lie by the Rose's side;
He would love her better than all the rest,
And he would be fond and true; —
But the Lily unfolded her weary lids,
And looked at the sky so blue.
Remember, remember, thou silly one,
How fast will thy summer glide,
And wilt thou wither a virgin pale,
Or flourish a blooming bride?
'O the rose is old, and thorny, and cold,
And he lives on earth, ' said she;
'But the Star is fair and he lives in the air,
And he shall my bridegroom be.'
But what if the stormy cloud should come,
And ruffle the silver sea?
Would he turn his eye from the distant sky,
To smile on a thing like thee?
O no, fair Lily, he will not send
One ray from his far-off throne;
The winds shall blow and the waves shall flow,
And thou wilt be left alone.
There is not a leaf on the mountain-top
Nor a dropp of evening dew,
Nor a golden sand on the sparkling shore,
Nor a pearl in the waters blue,
That he has not cheered with his fickle smile,
And warmed with his faithless beam, —
And will he be true to a pallid flower,
That floats on the quiet stream?
Alas for the Lily! she would not heed,
But turned to the skies afar,
And bared her breast to the trembling ray
That shot from the rising star;
The cloud came over the darkened sky,
And over the waters wide:
She looked in vain through the beating rain,
And sank in the stormy tide.
We boast no more of our bloodless flag, that rose from a nation's slime;
Better a shred of a deep-dyed rag from the storms of the olden time.
From grander clouds in our `peaceful skies' than ever were there before
I tell you the Star of the South shall rise -- in the lurid clouds of war.
It ever must be while blood is warm and the sons of men increase;
For ever the nations rose in storm, to rot in a deadly peace.
There comes a point that we will not yield, no matter if right or wrong,
And man will fight on the battle-field
while passion and pride are strong --
So long as he will not kiss the rod, and his stubborn spirit sours,
And the scorn of Nature and curse of God are heavy on peace like ours.
.    .    .    .    .
There are boys out there by the western creeks, who hurry away from school
To climb the sides of the breezy peaks or dive in the shaded pool,
Who'll stick to their guns when the mountains quake
to the tread of a mighty war,
And fight for Right or a Grand Mistake as men never fought before;
When the peaks are scarred and the sea-walls crack
till the furthest hills vibrate,
And the world for a while goes rolling back in a storm of love and hate.
.    .    .    .    .
There are boys to-day in the city slum and the home of wealth and pride
Who'll have one home when the storm is come, and fight for it side by side,
Who'll hold the cliffs 'gainst the armoured hells
that batter a coastal town,
Or grimly die in a hail of shells when the walls come crashing down.
And many a pink-white baby girl, the queen of her home to-day,
Shall see the wings of the tempest whirl the mist of our dawn away --
Shall live to shudder and stop her ears to the thud of the distant gun,
And know the sorrow that has no tears when a battle is lost and won, --
As a mother or wife in the years to come, will kneel, wild-eyed and white,
And pray to God in her darkened home for the `men in the fort to-night'.
.    .    .    .    .
But, oh! if the cavalry charge again as they did when the world was wide,
'Twill be grand in the ranks of a thousand men
in that glorious race to ride
And strike for all that is true and strong,
for all that is grand and brave,
And all that ever shall be, so long as man has a soul to save.
He must lift the saddle, and close his `wings', and shut his angels out,
And steel his heart for the end of things,
who'd ride with a stockman scout,
When the race they ride on the battle track, and the waning distance hums,
And the shelled sky shrieks or the rifles crack
like stockwhip amongst the gums --
And the `straight' is reached and the field is `gapped'
and the hoof-torn sward grows red
With the blood of those who are handicapped with iron and steel and lead;
And the gaps are filled, though unseen by eyes,
with the spirit and with the shades
Of the world-wide rebel dead who'll rise and rush with the Bush Brigades.
.    .    .    .    .
All creeds and trades will have soldiers there --
give every class its due --
And there'll be many a clerk to spare for the pride of the jackeroo.
They'll fight for honour and fight for love, and a few will fight for gold,
For the devil below and for God above, as our fathers fought of old;
And some half-blind with exultant tears, and some stiff-lipped, stern-eyed,
For the pride of a thousand after-years and the old eternal pride;
The soul of the world they will feel and see
in the chase and the grim retreat --
They'll know the glory of victory -- and the grandeur of defeat.
The South will wake to a mighty change ere a hundred years are done
With arsenals west of the mountain range and every spur its gun.
And many a rickety son of a gun, on the tides of the future tossed,
Will tell how battles were really won that History says were lost,
Will trace the field with his pipe, and shirk
the facts that are hard to explain,
As grey old mates of the diggings work the old ground over again --
How `this was our centre, and this a redoubt,
and that was a scrub in the rear,
And this was the point where the guards held out,
and the enemy's lines were here.'
.    .    .    .    .
They'll tell the tales of the nights before
and the tales of the ship and fort
Till the sons of Australia take to war as their fathers took to sport,
Their breath come deep and their eyes grow bright
at the tales of our chivalry,
And every boy will want to fight, no matter what cause it be --
When the children run to the doors and cry:
`Oh, mother, the troops are come!'
And every heart in the town leaps high at the first loud thud of the drum.
They'll know, apart from its mystic charm, what music is at last,
When, proud as a boy with a broken arm, the regiment marches past.
And the veriest wreck in the drink-fiend's clutch,
no matter how low or mean,
Will feel, when he hears the march, a touch
of the man that he might have been.
And fools, when the fiends of war are out and the city skies aflame,
Will have something better to talk about than an absent woman's shame,
Will have something nobler to do by far than jest at a friend's expense,
Or blacken a name in a public bar or over a backyard fence.
And this you learn from the libelled past,
though its methods were somewhat rude --
A nation's born where the shells fall fast, or its lease of life renewed.
We in part atone for the ghoulish strife,
and the crimes of the peace we boast,
And the better part of a people's life in the storm comes uppermost.
The self-same spirit that drives the man to the depths of drink and crime
Will do the deeds in the heroes' van that live till the end of time.
The living death in the lonely bush, the greed of the selfish town,
And even the creed of the outlawed push is chivalry -- upside down.
'Twill be while ever our blood is hot, while ever the world goes wrong,
The nations rise in a war, to rot in a peace that lasts too long.
And southern nation and southern state, aroused from their dream of ease,
Must sign in the Book of Eternal Fate their stormy histories.
When I was a boy I searched the skies
For the truth, a star, and the worldly wise,
But ever the path of the brightest lay
On my neighbour’s roof, or another’s way.
So I chose a star and I called it ‘Dawn’
As the brightest light in a summer storm
And I charged it: ‘Lay out my future way
As bright as the path you trace today.’
But when I was older, learned and wise
I left the star in the drifting skies
And never a thought of the star was lent
While the truth, the star, and my faith was spent.
And when I was down, and worn, and thin,
I got to think what I might have been
And searched for the star in the drifting skies
And cried its name at the pale sunrise.
I’ve scanned and searched for a single star
Since the way of the world was far too far,
But all I get are the skies alight
Or a deep despair on a cloudy night!
5 July 1975
1     Whatever 'tis, whose beauty here below
2     Attracts thee thus and makes thee stream and flow,
3         And wind and curl, and wink and smile,
4             Shifting thy gate and guile;
5     Though thy close commerce nought at all imbars
6     My present search, for eagles eye not stars,
7         And still the lesser by the best
8             And highest good is blest;
9     Yet, seeing all things that subsist and be,
10   Have their commissions from divinity,
11       And teach us duty, I will see
12           What man may learn from thee.
13   First, I am sure, the subject so respected
14   Is well dispos'd, for bodies once infected,
15       Deprav'd, or dead, can have with thee
16           No hold, nor sympathy.
17   Next, there's in it a restless, pure desire
18   And longing for thy bright and vital fire,
19       Desire that never will be quench'd,
20           Nor can be writh'd, nor wrench'd.
21   These are the magnets which so strongly move
22   And work all night upon thy light and love,
23       As beauteous shapes, we know not why,
24           Command and guide the eye.
25   For where desire, celestial, pure desire
26   Hath taken root, and grows, and doth not tire,
27       There God a commerce states, and sheds
28           His secret on their heads.
29   This is the heart he craves, and who so will
30   But give it him, and grudge not, he shall feel
31       That God is true, as herbs unseen
32           Put on their youth and green.
`You know Orion always comes up sideways.
Throwing a leg up over our fence of mountains,
And rising on his hands, he looks in on me
Busy outdoors by lantern-light with something
I should have done by daylight, and indeed,
After the ground is frozen, I should have done
Before it froze, and a gust flings a handful
Of waste leaves at my smoky lantern chimney
To make fun of my way of doing things,
Or else fun of Orion's having caught me.
Has a man, I should like to ask, no rights
These forces are obliged to pay respect to?'
So Brad McLaughlin mingled reckless talk
Of heavenly stars with hugger-mugger farming,
Till having failed at hugger-mugger farming
He burned his house down for the fire insurance
And spent the proceeds on a telescope
To satisfy a lifelong curiosity
About our place among the infinities.
`What do you want with one of those blame things?'
I asked him well beforehand. `Don't you get one!'
`Don't call it blamed; there isn't anything
More blameless in the sense of being less
A weapon in our human fight,' he said.
`I'll have one if I sell my farm to buy it.'
There where he moved the rocks to plow the ground
And plowed between the rocks he couldn't move,
Few farms changed hands; so rather than spend years
Trying to sell his farm and then not selling,
He burned his house down for the fire insurance
And bought the telescope with what it came to.
He had been heard to say by several:
`The best thing that we're put here for's to see;
The strongest thing that's given us to see with's
A telescope. Someone in every town
Seems to me owes it to the town to keep one.
In Littleton it might as well be me.'
After such loose talk it was no surprise
When he did what he did and burned his house down.
Mean laughter went about the town that day
To let him know we weren't the least imposed on,
And he could wait---we'd see to him tomorrow.
But the first thing next morning we reflected
If one by one we counted people out
For the least sin, it wouldn't take us long
To get so we had no one left to live with.
For to be social is to be forgiving.
Our thief, the one who does our stealing from us,
We don't cut off from coming to church suppers,
But what we miss we go to him and ask for.
He promptly gives it back, that is if still
Uneaten, unworn out, or undisposed of.
It wouldn't do to be too hard on Brad
About his telescope. Beyond the age
Of being given one for Christmas gift,
He had to take the best way he knew how
To find himself in one. Well, all we said was
He took a strange thing to be roguish over.
Some sympathy was wasted on the house,
A good old-timer dating back along;
But a house isn't sentient; the house
Didn't feel anything. And if it did,
Why not regard it as a sacrifice,
And an old-fashioned sacrifice by fire,
Instead of a new-fashioned one at auction?
Out of a house and so out of a farm
At one stroke (of a match), Brad had to turn
To earn a living on the Concord railroad,
As under-ticket-agent at a station
Where his job, when he wasn't selling tickets,
Was setting out, up track and down, not plants
As on a farm, but planets, evening stars
That varied in their hue from red to green.
He got a good glass for six hundred dollars.
His new job gave him leisure for stargazing.
Often he bid me come and have a look
Up the brass barrel, velvet black inside,
At a star quaking in the other end.
I recollect a night of broken clouds
And underfoot snow melted down to ice,
And melting further in the wind to mud.
Bradford and I had out the telescope.
We spread our two legs as we spread its three,
Pointed our thoughts the way we pointed it,
And standing at our leisure till the day broke,
Said some of the best things we ever said.
That telescope was christened the Star-Splitter,
Because it didn't do a thing but split
A star in two or three, the way you split
A globule of quicksilver in your hand
With one stroke of your finger in the middle.
It's a star-splitter if there ever was one,
And ought to do some good if splitting stars
'Sa thing to be compared with splitting wood.
We've looked and looked, but after all where are we?
Do we know any better where we are,
And how it stands between the night tonight
And a man with a smoky lantern chimney?
How different from the way it ever stood?
Every whisper that one hear is the name that has respect and yet just to look in the eyes of the stars of Star bucks is the star of respect that will fill once heart with the respect of Star bucks when one smile thus one smile with respect.
When the birds sing for they sing with happiness just to see the blue sky is like seeing the moon light of a angel of Star bucks yet when there is happiness thus one feel the touch of respect in once heart for the stars of Star bucks.
For every min that one see the family of Star bucks for one feel the touch of respect from the family of Star bucks star after star shall whisper the name of Star bucks in once dreams just to taste a good cup of coffee thus the star that whisper the name of Star bucks.
The Sun is not just a special star
Huge balls of hot gases are stars spinning in space
So big so hot and giving heat and light to the Earth
Larger than one million Earths is the Shining Sun in front of our face.
We must never look directly at the Sun
Cos it's not fun its brightness will damage the eyes
The Sun gives lives to all creatures on Earth
To all births, animals, human beings n natures when Sun shines
The stars shine all the time day and night
The Sun's so bright, it hides the light of the other stars
With a steady light's broken up as it passes through the Earth's atmosphere
Oh my dear, how beautiful they look, sparkle twinkle little stars.
The Earth spins or rotates on its axis
In geographic, we have...night and day, who wonder how?
The axis is an...imaginary line, going through the centre of the Earth
Taking 24 hours at once for the Earth to spin around.
At night, one side of the Earth moves away from the Sun
That part is the darkness..as the sun seems to sink below
Look at the horizon, the darkness is starting filling the dawn sky
With the rich dark beautiful colours, changing to night time very very slow.
I see a wishing star up in the sky,
I start to make a wish upon that wishing star,
Which was so beauitful in my eyes,
but by the time I'd finished the wish,
The wishing star was starting to move away in the sky,
So I dipped my eyes & turned away,
For someone else to have a wish,
On that wishing star.
Thou lingering star, with less'ning ray,
That lov'st to greet the early morn,
Again thou usherast in the day
My Mary from my soul was torn.
O Mary, dear departed shade
Where is thy place of blissful rest?
See'st thou thy lover lowly laid?
Hear'st thou the groans that rend his breast?
That sacred hour can I forget?
Can I forget the hallow'd grove
Where, by the winding Ayr, we met,
To live one day of parting love?
Eternity cannot efface
Those records dear of transports past,
Thy image at our last embrace---
Ah! little thought we 'twas our last!
Ayr, gurgling, kiss'd his pebbled shore,
O'erhung with wild-woods, thickening green;
The fragrant birch and hawthorn hoar,
Twin'd amorous round the raptur'd scene;
The flowers sprang wanton to be prest
The birds sang love on every spray
Till too, too soon, the glowing west,
Proclaim'd the speed of winged day.
Still o'er these scenes my mem'ry wakes,
And fondly broods with miser-care;
Time but th' impression stronger makes,
As streams their channels deeper wear.
O Mary! dear departed shade!
Where is thy place of blissful rest?
See'st thou thy lover lowly laid?
Hear'st thou the groans that rend his breast?
Star that bringest home the bee,
And sett’st the weary labourer free!
If any star shed peace, ‘tis thou,
That send ‘st it from above,
Appearing when Heaven’s breath and brow
Are sweet as hers we love.
Come to the luxuriant skies,
Whilst the landscape’s odours rise,
Whilst far-off lowing herds are heard,
And songs when toil is done,
From cottages whose smoke unstirr’d
Curls yellow in the sun.
Star of love’s soft interviews.
Parted lovers on thee muse;
Their remembrancer in heaven
Of thrilling vows thou art,
Too delicious to be riven
By absence from the heart.
Thou fair-haired angel of the evening,
Now, whilst the sun rests on the mountains, light
Thy bright torch of love; thy radiant crown
Put on, and smile upon our evening bed!
Smile on our loves, and while thou drawest the
Blue curtains of the sky, scatter thy silver dew
On every flower that shuts its sweet eyes
In timely sleep. Let thy west wing sleep on
The lake; speak silence with thy glimmering eyes,
And wash the dusk with silver. Soon, full soon,
Dost thou withdraw; then the wolf rages wide,
And the lion glares through the dun forest.
The fleeces of our flocks are covered with
Thy sacred dew; protect with them with thine influence.
My apologies to chance for calling it necessity.
My apologies to necessity if I'm mistaken, after all.
Please, don't be angry, happiness, that I take you as my due.
May my dead be patient with the way my memories fade.
My apologies to time for all the world I overlook each second.
My apologies to past loves for thinking that the latest is the first.
Forgive me, distant wars, for bringing flowers home.
Forgive me, open wounds, for pricking my finger.
I apologize for my record of minuets to those who cry from the depths.
I apologize to those who wait in railway stations for being asleep today at five a.m.
Pardon me, hounded hope, for laughing from time to time.
Pardon me, deserts, that I don't rush to you bearing a spoonful of water.
And you, falcon, unchanging year after year, always in the same cage,
your gaze always fixed on the same point in space,
forgive me, even if it turns out you were stuffed.
My apologies to the felled tree for the table's four legs.
My apologies to great questions for small answers.
Truth, please don't pay me much attention.
Dignity, please be magnanimous.
Bear with me, O mystery of existence, as I pluck the occasional thread from your train.
Soul, don't take offense that I've only got you now and then.
My apologies to everything that I can't be everywhere at once.
My apologies to everyone that I can't be each woman and each man.
I know I won't be justified as long as I live,
since I myself stand in my own way.
Don't bear me ill will, speech, that I borrow weighty words,
then labor heavily so that they may seem light.
Wings of dreams
And shine of pearls
Away from worldly schemes,
That’s where we’re perched-
Up on a shining star,
Where senses are stirred, by-
Saccharine fragrances, twang of guitar,
Taste of ecstasy, touch of skin and
Gazing at you, my sweetest sin.
Up on a shining star, the
Moonbeams shine on us
Glowing in approval of our sacred love.
The sky erupts in a show of dazzle,
Because,
Every love story is special and
Every love story is worth of
Growing wings of dream and shine of pearls.
Every love story is worth of
Escaping worldly schemes and to be perched
Upon a shining star!
The morning was fearful at sea--
The voyagers weary and pale;
Their steamer a wreck, from keel to deck,
Before an Autumnal gale.
Old Neptune came forth in power--
He wore on his features a frown;
And many a guest he took to rest,
When the "Evening Star" went down.
They sleep in a fathomless grave,
The guest and the mariner brave;
They pillow their heads on coral beds,
Beneath the blue ocean waves,
Beneath the blue ocean waves.
Sail'd ever a ship from her quay,
So heavily laden as she,
With folly and fame, with hope and shame,
With vanity, mirth and glee?
But in the dark moment that came,
How useless were rank and renown!
And honors of earth, what were they worth,
When the "Evening Star" went down.
The treacherous ocean is calm--
No longer in storm billows toss's;
Yet darkness and cloud will long enshroud
The hearts that were link'd with the lost.
In how many, how many homes,
Far distant, in country or town,
A light was put out, in dread, in doubt,
When the "Evening Star" when down.
When the shy star goes forth in heaven
All maidenly, disconsolate,
Hear you amid the drowsy even
One who is singing by your gate.
His song is softer than the dew
And he is come to visit you.
O bend no more in revery
When he at eventide is calling.
Nor muse: Who may this singer be
Whose song about my heart is falling?
Know you by this, the lover's chant,
'Tis I that am your visitant.
Look here a star.
You wish on them.
If you’re lucky u get it.
It stands and shines with hope.
I wish with hope
Maybe one day I might get it.
I’m not tell you what it is.
So try your luck.
Wish on a star
Morning star from where you are
Can you see my tiny heart
From so many
Can you see the only me
Can you see me way down here
Making a wish, oh can you hear
Oh morning star
I am wishing with all my heart
All I want in all my life
Is someone to walk beside in life
So lonely, I’m so lonely
Can you make it right
Grandpa had always told me
The first star that I see
Make a wish upon the morning star
The morning star will answer me
Morning star, morning star
Can me down here you find
Would you take away the loneliness
Could you ever be so kind.
Nothing permanent ever came
Neither success, nor failure.
It's how wise you play the game,
Your integrity that'll endure.
Eagles do look good in sky,
But whose voice is pleasing, say?
Which is the bird you want in nest
To sing for you all day?
He who plays fair always
Is the one ideal, worthwhile.
And even when he fails,
He accepts it with smile!
A man of succes is not he
Who has conquered all feats,
But he who the world envies
Even in his greatest defeats!
(written on the 21st of April,2009)
Success is having what it takes
to keep positivity on the trail
to total freedom.
Stand firm,
knock negativity to the ground,
forgetting it  ever came around.
Holding yourself accountable
for everything you do.
Offering a helping hand to those not as
fortunate as you.
Giving when finances are high,
giving when
finances are low,
acknowledging you reap
what you sow.
Armed with aptitude, ambition, ability;
being yourself all the time;
carrying calmness of mind and clarity of thought;
dressed in desire, determination, discipline and dedication;
enveloped in effulgence, empathy and enthusiasm;
fired by faith and fervor and
graced by gratitude and good health.
Hard work, honesty and humility,
intellect, intuition,  indefatigable passion and
joie de vivre – all these being your friends always.
Kindness in thought, word and deed and
laziness always kept at bay.
Making the most of your time,
never thinking of ever giving up
or being afraid of taking a risk,
putting your heart, mind and soul into everything,
questioning yourself all the time and
rectifying mistakes made along the way.
Self-confidence and a strong desire
to make it to the finish line…
using whatever resources available and
vocalizing only positive thoughts.
When things don’t seem to go your way,
(e) xtraordinary patience and perseverance will pay.
You will see in the end that
zenith is not too far away.
Geeta Ashok
7/9/2010
5 pm
Without work nothing can be done;
Without knowing, no work can be done.
All developments depend on work;
No work can be done without pain!
For, there can’t be gain without pain.
Pleasure can’t be enjoyed without pain;
Pain is the first step to pleasure ever.
Trekking the mountain starts with jerks;
Careful steps to the top lead to success;
Success is the top peak of the mountain.
Maintaining top level is next work;
Without maintaining top position
Success cannot be retained forever.
This is the story to achieve success sure!
Success is a friend to
Those who persevere
He is free and very fair
He speaks but they don't hear
So failure puts them to fear
They can't find success
But he lives near
The street of determination
Seek him in your imagination
And you will find him in your vision
You can't achieve success with force
But perseverance and endurance
For he keep changing his location
Through innovation
When great Augustus govern'd ancient Rome,
And sent his conquering bands to foreign wars,
Abroad when dreaded, and beloved at home,
He saw his fame increasing with his years,
Horace, great bard, (so fate ordain'd) arose,
And, bold as were his countryman in fight,
Snatch'd their fair actions from degrading prose,
And set their battles in eternal light:
High as their trumpets tune his lyre he strung,
And with his prince's arms he moralized his song.
When bright Eliza ruled Britannia's state,
Widely distributing her high commands,
And, boldly wise and fortunately great,
Freed the glad nations from tyrannic bands,
An equal genius was in Spenser found;
To the high theme he match'd his noble lays;
He travelled England o'er on fairy ground,
In mystic notes to sing his monarch's praise:
Reciting wondrous truths in pleasing dreams
He deck'd Eliza's head with Gloriana's beams.
But, greatest Anna! while thy arms pursue
Paths of renown, and climb ascents of fame,
Which nor Augustus nor Eliza knew,
What poet shall be found to sing thy name?
What numbers shall record, what tongue shall say
Thy wars on land, thy triumphs on the main?
O fairest model of imperial sway!
What equal pen shall write thy wondrous reign?
Who shall attempts and feats of arms rehearse,
Nor yet by story told, nor parallel'd by verse?
Me all too mean for such a task I weet;
Yet if the sovereign Lady designs to smile
I'll follow Horace with impetuous heat,
And clothe the verse in Spenser's native style:
By these examples rightly taught to sing,
And smit with pleasure of my country's praise,
Stretching the plumes of an uncommon wing,
High as Olympus I my flight will raise,
And latest times shall in my numbers read
Anna's immortal fame and Marlborough's hardy deed.
As the strong eagle in the silent wood,
Mindless of warlike rage and hostile care,
Plays round the rocky cliff or crystal flood,
Till by Jove's high behests call'd out to war,
And charged with thunder of his angry king,
His bosom with the vengeful message glows,
Upward the noble bird directs his wing,
And towering round his master's earth-born foes,
Swift he collects his fatal stock of ire,
Lifts his fierce talon high, and darts the forked fire.
Sedate and calm thus victor Marlborough sate,
Shaded with laurels, in his native land,
Till Anna calls him from his soft retreat,
And gives her second thunder to his hand:
Then leaving sweet repose and gentle ease,
With ardent speed he seeks the distant foe,
Marching o'er hills and vales, o'er rocks and seas,
He meditates and strikes the wondrous blow.
Our thought flies slower than our General's fame;
Grasps he the bolt? (we ask) when he has hurl'd the flame.
When fierce Bavar on Judoign's spacious plain
Did from afar the British chief behold,
Betwixt despair, and rage, and hope, and pain,
Something within his warring bosom roll'd:
He views that favourite of indulgent Fame,
Whom whilom he had met on Ister's shore;
Too well, alas! the man he knows the same
Whose prowess there repell'd the Boyan power,
And sent them trembling thro' the frighted lands,
Swift as the whirlwind drives Arabia's scatter'd sands.
His former losses he forgets to grieve;
Absolves his fate with a kinder ray
It now would shine, and only give him leave
To balance the account of Blenheim's day.
So the fell lion, in the lonely glade,
His side still smarting with the hunter's spear,
Though deeply wounded, no way yet dismay'd,
Roars terrible, and meditates new war,
In sullen fury traverses the plain
To find the venturous foe, and battle him again.
Misguided prince, no longer urge thy fate,
Nor tempt the hero to unequal war;
Famed in misfortune, and in ruin great,
Confess the force of Malbro's stronger star.
Those laurel groves (the merits of thy youth)
Which thou from Mahomet didst greatly gain,
While, bold assertor of resistless truth,
Thy sword did godlike Liberty maintain.
Must from thy brow their falling honours shed,
And their transplanted wreaths must deck a worthier head.
Yet cease the ways of Providence to blame,
And human faults with human grief confess;
'Tis thou art changed, while Heaven is still the same;
From thy ill counsels date thy ill success:
Impartial Justice holds her equal scales,
Till stronger virtue does the weight incline;
If over thee thy glorious foe prevails,
He now defends the cause that once was thine.
Righteous the war, the champion shall subdue,
For Jove's great handmaid, Power, must Jove's decrees pursue.
Hark! the dire trumpets sound their shrill alarms!
Auverqueque, branch'd from the renown'd Nassaus,
Hoary in war, and bent beneath his arms,
His glorious sword with dauntless courage draws.
When anxious Britain mourn'd her parting lord,
And all of William that was mortal died,
The faithful hero had received his sword
From his expiring master's much-loved side:
Oft from its fatal ire has Louis flown,
Where'er great William led or Maese and Sambre run.
But brandish'd high, in an ill-omen'd hour
To thee, proud Gaul, behold thy justest fear,
The master-sword, disposer of thy power:
'Tis that which Caesar gave the British peer.
He took the gift: Nor ever will I sheath
This steel (so Anna's high behests ordain)
The General said, unless by glorious death
Absolved, till conquest has confirm'd your reign.
Returns like these our mistress bids us make,
When from a foreign prince a gift her Britons take.
And now fierce Gallia rushes on her foes,
Her force augmented by the Boyan bands;
So Volga's stream, increased by mountain snows,
Rolls with new fury down through Russia's lands.
Like two great rocks against the raging tide
(If Virtue's force with Nature's we compare)
Unmoved the two united chiefs abide,
Sustain the impulse, and receive the war:
Round their firm sides in vain the tempest beats,
And still the foaming wave with lessen'd power retreats.
The rage dispersed, the glorious pair advance,
With mingled anger and collected might,
To turn the war, and tell aggressing France
How Britain's sons and Britain's friends can fight.
On conquest fix'd, and covetous of fame,
Behold them rushing through the Gallic host;
Through standing corn so runs the sudden flame,
Or eastern winds along Sicilia's coast.
They deal their terrors to the adverse nation:
Pale Death attends their arms, and ghastly Desolation.
But while with fiercest ire Bellona glows,
And Europe rather hopes than fears her fate,
While Britain presses her afflicted foes,
What horror damps the strong and quells the great?
Whence look the soldier's cheeks dismay'd and pale?
Erst ever dreadful, know they now to dread?
The hostile troops, I ween, almost prevail,
And the pursuers only not recede.
Alas! their lessen'd rage proclaims their grief!
For anxious, lo! they crowd around their falling chief.
I thank thee, Fate, exclaims the fierce Bavar;
Let Boya's trumpet graceful Io's sound;
I saw him fall, their thunderbolt of war; -
Ever to Vengeance sacred be the ground -
Vain wish! short joy! the hero mounts again
In greater glory, and with fuller light;
The evening star so falls into the main,
To rise at morn more prevalently bright.
He rises safe, but near, too near his side,
A good man's grievous loss, a faithful servant died.
Propitious Mars! the battle is regain'd';
The foe with lessen'd wrath disputes the field:
The Briton fights, by favoring gods sustain'd;
Freedom must live, and lawless power must yield.
Vain now the tales which fabling poets tell,
That wavering Conquest still desires to rove!
In Marlbro's camp the goddess knows to dwell;
Long as the hero's life remains her love.
Again France flies, again the Duke pursues,
And on Ramilia's plains he Blenheim's fame renews.
Great thanks, O Captain, great in arms! receive
From thy triumphant country's public voice;
Thy country greater thanks can only give
To Anne, to her who made those arms her choice.
Recording Schellenberg's and Blenheim's toils,
We dreaded lest thou should'st those toils repeat:
We view'd the palace charged with Gallic spoils,
And in those spoils we thought thy praise complete.
For never Greek we deem'd, nor Roman knight,
In characters like these did e'er his acts indite.
Yet, mindless still of ease, thy virtue flies
A pitch to old and modern times unknown:
Those goodly deeds, which we so highly prize,
Imperfect seem, great Chief, to thee alone.
Those heights, where William's virtue might have staid,
And on the subject world look'd safely down,
By Marlbro's pass'd, the props and steps were made
Sublimer yet to raise his Queen's renown:
Still gaining more, still slighting what he gain'd,
Nought done the hero deem'd while ought undone remain'd.
When swift-wing'd Rumour told the mighty Gaul
How lessen'd from the field Bavar was fled,
He wept the swiftness of the champion's fall,
And thus the royal treaty-breaker said:
And lives he yet, the great, the lost Bavar,
Ruin to Gallia in the name of friend?
Tell me how far has Fortune been severe?
Has the foe's glory of our grief an end?
Remains there, of the fifty thousand lost,
To save our threaten'd realm, or guard our shatter'd coast?
To the close rock the frighted raven flies,
Soon as the rising eagle cuts the air
The shaggy wolf unseen and trembling lies,
When the hoarse roar proclaims the lion near:
Ill starr'd did we our forts and lines forsake,
To dare our British foes to open fight:
Our conquest we by stategem should make:
'Tis ours by craft and by surprise to gain:
'Tis theirs, to meet in arms, and battle in the plain.
The ancient father of this hostile brood,
Their boasted Brute, undaunted snatch'd his gods
From burning Troy, and Xanthus red with blood,
And fix'd on silver Thames his dire abodes:
And this be Trynovante, he said, the seat
By Heaven ordain'd, my sons, your lasting place:
Superior here to all the bolts of fate
Live, mindful of the author of your race,
Whom neither Greece, nor war, nor want, nor flame,
Nor great Pelides' arm, nor Juno's rage, could tame.
Their Tudors hence, and Stuart's offspring flow:
Hence Edward, dreadful with his sable shield,
Talbot to Gallia's power eternal foe,
And Seymour, famed in council or in field:
Hence Nevel, great to settle or dethrone,
And Drake, and Ca'ndish, terrors of the sea:
Hence Butler's sons, o'er land and ocean known,
Herbert's and Churchill's warring progeny:
Hence the long roll which Gallia should conceal:
For, oh! who, vanquish'd, loves the victor's fame to tell?
Envy'd Britannia, sturdy as the oak,
Which on her mountain top she proudly bears,
Eludes the axe, and sproutes against the stroke;
Strong from her wounds, and greater by her wars.
And as those teeth, which Cadmus sow'd in earth,
Produced new youth, and furnish'd fresh supplies;
So with young vigour, and succeeding birth,
Her losses more than recompensed arise;
And every age she with a race is crown'd,
For letters more polite, in battles more renown'd.
Obstinate power, whom nothing can repel;
Not the fierce Saxon, nor the cruel Dane,
Nor deep impression of the Norman steel,
Nor Europe's force amass'd by envious Spain.
Nor France on universal sway intent,
Oft breaking leagues, and oft renewing wars;
Nor (frequent bane of weaken'd government)
Their own intestine feuds and mutual jars;
Those feuds and jars, in which I trusted more,
Than in my troops, and fleets, and all the Gallic power.
To fruitful Rheims, or fair Lutetia's gate,
What tidings shall the messenger convey?
Shall the loud herald our success relate,
Or mitred priest appoint the solemn day?
Alas! my praises they no more must sing;
They to my statue now must bow no more;
Broken, repulsed is their immortal king:
Fall'n, fall'n for ever, is the Gallic power.-
The woman chief is master of the war:
Earth she has freed by arms, and vanquish'd Heaven by prayer.
While thus the ruin'd foe's despair commends
Thy council and thy deed, victorious queen,
What shall thy subjects say, and what thy friends;
How shall thy triumphs in our joy be seen?
Oh! deign to let the eldest of the nine
Recite Britannia great and Gallia free;
Oh! with her sister Sculpture let her join
To raise, great Anne, the monument to thee;
To thee, of all our good the sacred spring;
To thee, our dearest dread; to thee, our softer king.
Let Europe, saved, the column high erect,
Than Trojan's higher, or than Antonine's,
Where sembling art may carve the fair effect
And full achievement of thy great designs,
In a calm heaven and a serener air
Sublime the queen shall on the summit stand,
From danger far, as far removed from fear,
And pointing down to earth her dread command.
All winds, all storms, that threaten human wo
Shall sink beneath her feet, and spread their rage below.
There fleets shall strive, by winds and waters tost,
Till the young Austrian on Iberia's strand,
Great as AEneas on the Latian coast
Shall fix his foot: And this, be this the land,
Great Jove, where I for ever will remain,
(The empire's other hope shall say) and here
Vanquish'd, intomb'd I'll lie, or crown'd I'll reign -
O Virtue, to thy British Mother dear!
Like the famed Trojan suffer and abide:
For Anne is thine, I ween, as Venus was his guide.
There, in eternal characters engraved,
Vigo, and Gibraltar, and Barcelone,
Their force destroy'd, their privileges saved,
Shall Anna's terrors and her mercies own:
Spain, from the usurper Bourbon's arms retrieved,
Shall with new life and grateful joy appear,
Numbering the wonders which that youth achieved
Whom Anna clad in arms and sent to war,
Whom Anna sent to claim Iberia's throne,
And made him more than king in calling him her son.
There Isther, pleased by Blenheim's glorious field,
Rolling, shall bid his eastern waves declare
Germania saved by Britain's ample shield,
And bleeding Gaul afflicted by her spear;
Shall bid them mention Marlbro', on that shore
Leading his islanders renown'd in arms,
Through climes where never British chief before
Or pitch'd his camp, or sounded his alarms;
Shall bid them bless the queen, who made his streams
Glorious as those of Boyne, and safe as those of Thames.
Brabantia, clad with fields, and crown'd with towers,
With decent joy shall her deliverer meet,
Shall own thy arms, great queen, and bless thy powers,
Laying the keys beneath thy subject's feet.
Flandria, by plenty made the home of war,
Shall weep her crime, and bow to Charles restored,
With double vows shall bless thy happy care
In having drawn and having sheathed the sword,
From these their sister provinces shall know
How Anne supports a friend, and how forgives a foe.
Bright swords, and crested helms, and pointed spears,
In artful piles around the work shall lie;
And shields indented deep in ancient wars,
Blazon'd with signs of Gallic heraldry;
And standards with distinguish'd honours bright,
Marks of high power and national command,
Which Valois' sons, and Bourbon's bore in fight,
Or gave to Foix', or Montmorancy's hand;
Great spoils, which Gallia must to Britain yield,
From Cressy's battle saved to grace Ramilia's field.
And, as fine art the spaces may dispose,
The knowing thought and curious eye shall see
Thy emblem, gracious queen, the British rose,
Type of sweet rule and gentle majesty:
The northern thistle, whom no hostile hand
Unhurt too rudely may provoke, I ween;
Hibernia's harp, device of her command,
And parent of her mirth shall there be seen:
Thy vanquish'd lilies, France, decay'd and torn,
Shall with disorder'd pomp the lasting work adorn.
Beneath, great queen, oh! very far beneath,
Next to the ground and on the humble base,
To save herself from darkness and from death,
That muse desires the last, the lowest place;
Who, though unmeet, yet touch'd the trembling string,
For the fair fame of Anne and Albion's land,
Who durst of war and martial fury sing;
And when thy will, and when thy subject's hand,
Had quell'd those wars, and bid that fury cease,
Hangs up her grateful harp to conquest, and to peace.
He was on the same spot,
Holding a small pot,
Ran his family lot,
With whatever he got.
Fifty years rolled by,
But never any passerby,
Any time felt troubled by,
This beggar lived close by.
Destiny played its role,
To snatch his daily dole,
He wasn't seen one day,
Having silently passed away,
A memorial in his place,
For his act of grace,
Was proposed out of pity,
By the gentlemen of the city.
Dug under the ground,
They, by chance, found,
A mud pot, with gold
Coins of ancient old.
Their sympathy increased,
O'er the poor deceased,
For years he stood on the gold,
With his hardship untold.
Yes, only an endless search,
Can make one to touch,
And go ahead to reach
The goal of success, as such.
Ho! we were strong, we were swift, we were brave.
Youth was a challenge, and Life was a fight.
All that was best in us gladly we gave,
Sprang from the rally, and leapt for the height.
Smiling is Love in a foam of Spring flowers:
Harden our hearts to him -- on let us press!
Oh, what a triumph and pride shall be ours!
See where it beacons, the star of success!
Cares seem to crowd on us -- so much to do;
New fields to conquer, and time's on the wing.
Grey hairs are showing, a wrinkle or two;
Somehow our footstep is losing its spring.
Pleasure's forsaken us, Love ceased to smile;
Youth has been funeralled; Age travels fast.
Sometimes we wonder: is it worth while?
There! we have gained to the summit at last.
Aye, we have triumphed! Now must we haste,
Revel in victory . . . why! what is wrong?
Life's choicest vintage is flat to the taste --
Are we too late? Have we laboured too long?
Wealth, power, fame we hold . . . ah! but the truth:
Would we not give this vain glory of ours
For one mad, glad year of glorious youth,
Life in the Springtide, and Love in the flowers.
A shadow of respect,
a flame of response,
a desire of destination,
a bridge of dreams,
a plazer of demonstration,
a heart of modulation,
a birth of justification,
All just from a creation,
working for his nation,
his family and his passion,
overcoming every extinction,
with a big regret to distruction,
a new lump of dreams,
a new cry for success,
a new mind for aproval,
a new sun rise for hapy lif,
with a new passion for animation,
All jst for life he deserves,
with enfresing his desires,
with happines, and fires,
with love and respect,
and a few beautiful regret,
he realy steps to the world,
he desrvs.....that is SUCCESS....
Each and every one has got success story
You will be excited with news and others may feel sorry
Some one has to take the credit for it and enjoy
There may other factors too leading for the joy
It is culmination of hard efforts that makes it possible
It would have remained in dream and nearly impossible
Had there been no initiative of any sort in this regard?
It would have never been materialized even if worked very hard
It involves application of mind with strong resolve
No room is left and made sure that everybody is involved
It has to be joint effort with sincerity and dedication
It is first step toward success and is apparent indication
Success lies beneath the popular support
if you maintain contacts with good rapport
it will be great encouragement and contributing to strength
if maintained on same level with good wavelength
what amounts to failure or leading to success?
When you gain entry  to have full access
You go with relentless efforts coupled with zeal
it ends in good finish with final seal
it makes impact with great difference
If you fail to draw correct inference
You must heed and pay attention to an expert advice
When something goes wrong or fails as device
Things move on  with saying “United we stand and divided we fall”
If you do not wake up and respond to a call
You can swim against opposing current and rising waves
With resolute action and waves might pave
People will be frustrated with your success and annoyed
If message is not understood by them and properly conveyed
Close your hand and it strong with grip strength
People will understand clearly at good length
Youngsters may have to sacrifice and die
Not to give any way or simply tell lies
It is need of an hour and they must rise to the occasion
Not to take any chance or wait for  battle of succession
More you work in peace than less you may bleed
Success may touch your feet and you may succeed
Why not ride on high waves and shout for peace?
Life may not be normal and you may feel at ease
It is in fact two sides of the coin
One may be entering and other may be going
There may not be any joy if one them is missing
People may laugh at you and start teasing
Confidence is Beauty
Beauty is Art
Art is Performance
Performance is Excellence
Excellence is Responsibility
Responsibility is Collectivism
Collectivism is Accountability
Accountability is State of Art
In turn
State of Art is Beauty
Beauty is Confidence
Confidence is Success
Success is
“ Let not loose any one
In the game of life”
'Wish you all happy new year-2010'
The best of the other in the one.
The best of the one in the other.
Either in the one or the other,
the best of the other or the one.
The success that lies in sadness,
the sadness in success.
The honour and the love.
Best below, above.
Complete success
The words themselves
Contradict
Secluded.
Complete failure
The words themselves
United
Pleasing.
All are
Repetitions of
Opportunities
Towards perfection.
As you're walkin' down the street
dreaming of a better day
please look down, close to your feet
floats a shadow, and it may
look familiar to your eyes
it is always there for you
never tells you little lies
never gives the slightest clue.
It is Death, your dearest friend
he will stay until you die
go, look down but do not bend
do not ask him when and why.
Just remember when you fret
that your profit is too meagre
that the only foolproof bet
quite regardless of how eager
you live out your precious time
is the fact that it will end.
Up the ladder you may climb
when suddenly the Gods will send
one brief signal to your keeper
and you slide, with care, back down
as he shows you, your grim reaper:
No pockets in your final gown.
O Lord! don't give me success,
If it takes away my freedom;
Don't give me success,
If it pulls me in the ditch of pride;
O Lord! don't give me success,
If it makes me alone;
If it takes away my friends,
If it makes me deaf to hear the forest;
O Lord! don't give me such a success,
If it takes me away from thy beauty;
Don't give me success, O Lord!
If it takes me away from You!
Beneath this sod lie the remains
Of one who died of growing pains.
Failure is the penalty,
for continually getting things wrong.
Success on the other hand is the award,
for getting things continually right.
Failure puts you down in despair.
Success sends you soaring among the clouds.
Therefore, I look at myself and wonder,
am I a success or failure.
Then maybe I am a bit of both.
Whichever way the hammer falls
only you can decide.
success is a damsel
that intoxicates;
failure is your mistress
that teases.
success is a drink
that leads to stupor;
failure is the beverage
that shakes you up.
success is a temporary
shed in life's journey;
failure is the pathway
to ultimate destination.
dont let thus
success beguile
into
momentary comfort;
learn to befriend failure
to last the journey's end.
success is the mistress
of easy charms;
failure is your wife,
of considerable virtues;
failure enriches you,
success may shower
riches on you;
failure is the sweet little
drummer to roses ahead
on the path ways,
success a sweet companion
not to be seen
when winter comes
your ways, as it must
in one's life,
leaving the summer
far, far behind.
Such irresistible twins,
Shadowing  each other,
One can't make it,
Others can't do it.
Holding hands together,
Far and wide to the ocean,
seas, rives and waterfalls,
to the greatest heights,
and profound deep,
both of them following the other.
Failure first then comes success,
Success first then comes failure,
Both of them give way to the other,
For they know so well,
either one can live freely,
For they are both
Shadows and Twins!
I dare not violate the woman’s modesty
It will be pure injustice and no honesty
The clouds may look dark and atmosphere little misty
But all this can be termed as impure and dirty
They have come into being of their own
God has given them delicate figure to maintain
If they look good and beautiful not their fault
Almighty has placed caring heart too and kept as inbuilt
How do we roam freely with joy in garden?
The flowers of all colors have emerged all of sudden
It is their presence to be felt in nice environment
Do they not deserve nice eyes to look at with comments?
I am fascinated with the way they open up and boom
They may not look that beautiful when decorated in room
They may add beauty and nicely adore
But we need to do something more
We appreciate feminist out look and touch
We do take care and appreciate very much
I love being very near to them and present
All that I could do without any reservation and not resent
I feel we have great and caring heart like female
In some of the fields they have outwitted males
Females have proved great artists and poets
Remain in doors still all fronts keeping very quiet
So much to learn from their feminist look and nature
They are great philosopher even if not fully matured
The motherly and caring nature all that very much assure
At least I feel honestly secured of near future
We may have different character inbuilt
We may show favor and make some tilt
Still they outsmart us in every field and make move
They have made their presence known and need not prove
Time and again it is male very clear
I hear it number of times and pleases ears
All stories about them have vanished like yesteryears
They are dear alright but so much to be afraid of or fear
They are submissive but not to the extent beyond limit
They have dedication and will power to show and exhibit
We can not be unsecured or unsafe in their orbit
It will be too naïve to disregard or praise little bit
We are soft and fragile on women
Even though we are wild animal but appear as strong man
Not all the men derive their strength from women partners
Still they remain as driving force to be reckoned with care
To fly to the success
How many wings should we have?
The wind, a great fortune.
No...
The wind, trying hard.
Not yet...
The wind, being wise.
Not right...
The wind, the desire that is strong.
Totally wrong...
So we need all of these.
Not complete...
--***---***----
The only wind we need is
Being ready for every case.
Hence, my message is that
Getting ready for everything is
Flying to the real success.
In the hearts of men
The key to success...
You have it in you
Fruition of your
Big step will start with your first
SMALL confident step
The word success means many things to many people
To be considered a success, means that you have made it
The question here is – made it as what?
How do you define success?
Is it by passing an exam?
Is it by becoming a landlord or landlady?
Is it by been promoted at work?
Is it by winning the lottery?
Is it by marrying the woman of your dreams?
Is it by marrying the man of your dreams?
Is it by been in an executive position?
Is it by winning an election?
How do you define success?
Are you successful as a pilot or a stewardess?
What does the word – “success” mean to you?
Is it by been the head of your organization?
Is it by having lots of money?
And how much money determines success?
Are you successful as a member of the armed forces?
Are you successful as a member of the police force?
What is your own definition of success?
Are you successful by been a writer, teacher,
Pastor, evangelist, taxi driver, congressperson,
Medical doctor or a reputed musician
Are you successful by been a sole proprietor
Mechanic, movie star, or the chairman of the board
Are you successful as an architect or builder?
Do you consider yourself a success as a banker?
Success is in the eyes of the beholder
The meaning of success varies and differs
From one person to the other
How does a person determine his or her worth
You may ask what is your purpose on this earth
When you look for the answer... who do you ask
Who is appropriately delegated to take on the task
What scale of degrees will measure your qualities
Will you fill a predetermined mold and aim to please
Become self-sufficient while taking care of your needs
It is important to balance the budget with your proceeds
Become educated and develop skills with knowledge
Train to be someone who makes a sincere pledge
Fulfillment will tell you when you have finally arrived
Be content and satisfied... don’t let yourself be contrived
Reserve a portion of time for your family and friends
The caring attention you give has rewarding dividends
In the end, will you be able to say with a straight face…
I didn’t just take up space... I made the world a better place
revised 2/11/2011
I dream the future without the past
Of when my success will be a blast
Intent of heart, I see the best
Hope for the future, with God I rest.
I crave for success, I hope for hope
God start the process, I crave to cope.
I see a flash, a flash of hope
I'm up the mountain, nomore the slope
Lord take me higher, Lord take me up
Mobilize the process, and do not stop.
I crave for success, I hope for hope
God start the process, I crave to cope.
Night and day, I hope in silence
The possibility of a future so dense
If I persevere, and continue hoping
Then my future will cease from joking.
I crave for success, I hope for hope
God start the process, I crave to cope.
In success in failure
Be even-minded
And go on
Doing your allotted work.
If you are the cause
In making your actions
Bear fruit
You are poor
You are wretched.
Failure is not a sin,
failure teaches you how to succeed,
failure is the first step for success,
failure helps you from failing,
failure always helps in your success.
If you fail, the world doesnt come to an end.
Try!
Success will defintely be on your way.
So will others.
So will run away your failure.
But...
never forget your failure in life which helped you in your
SUCCESS.
Essence holds its dream entire,
Strengthens hope true into fire
To fit in it to be higher
To the most breezed to aspire.
Its strength with a wind-lot by,
Sprouts ambition to the sky
To bloom into a smile high.
Happiness across to fly,
Its fluttering wings in flight
Spreads across the field its light.
Blossomed is success glass-bright
With glory mounting in sight.
Heart content is in sublime,
Remains diamond-worth in prime.
Victory does reign in clime,
Hailing joy bell-like to chime.
Below the pines I ask the boy
He says his master had gone to find herbs
He's somewhere on this mountain
But the clouds are too thick to know where
Love always exceeds its objects
which, however great or beautiful,
are subject to time, decay, and death:
after their brief season in the sun,
they lose their fresh bloom, so magical,
and harden slowly or rot in their youth.
But love remains eternally youthful,
whether embodied as a silly, naked boy
wilfully shooting his invisible darts
at unsuspecting victims, or entirely bodiless,
too subtle to behold, but still quivering
in every heart's secret places.  Love is not
subject to us, but we are subject to it:
it changes its objects like soiled garments
or the deathless soul it's transient bodies.
[From Partial Disclosure]
My first love
And my first success
To win over her
When I compare
I feel
I am more in love
With my success
Than my first love
Though her lips were
More red than coral
More erect her breast
Than the cliff Everest
Yet I get more taste
In the soft touch
More delight in the eyes
Of my success
When we walk
Hand in hand
Side by side
People see and awe
Our dazzling beauty
Spread all over
As I know
Success makes a man more handsome
So I see a bevy in queue
Posing as lover
But my success
I love her more
When she speaks
Oh, I am out of things to compare
Me and my success
Least I can say
I notice  people
To sigh and  wonder!
Mother's fine china -
a stack of dishes
I couldn't eat with the adults
'twas against her wishes
So I stand at the sink
I will wash her grime
but first, I think
that it's 'break time'
My first step to success.....
it all began when it started
i held the page upright as it was free from ink
ideas flowed like a river in summer
my mind became glimmering with thoughts
i had to begin somewhere with the right
words, i had to tickle the reader at first sight
i sat as i drowned in knowledge
scanning the words carefully since i could not afford
mistakes
my fingers took the first step
my mouth entertained the words
my brain structured the llines
the pen moved along the page
half way towards the end
the alarm awakend me
mum shouting at her best
birds tweeting outside
i rose from my bed in disappointment
it was all just a dream.......!
How I have achieved my success
because a woman behind my shadow
She is my ever loving wife and guardian
She made our family strong well
and she is the pillar of our family who hold us all
She take cares of everything without time limit
and put everything in order to make us easy
She has shown us her faith to over come any obstacles
and at the same time any problems dealt with properly
As a mother she never grow old and mould her heart for us with gold
She teach our children well and they learn so well
She blends her love with sincerity and hard to define
She brings us together always to be all in one family.
She always look for the best in us and give us best she had
She is my love and wife where these things abide
and my success was completed when she become my shadow
Success is not the triumph over regress,
Success is the power to suppress.
Success is not the money or the fame,
Success is, knowing you are still the same.
Success is not the power or the pride.
Success is the knowing how to hide.
Success is not a gift or gain,
Success is accepting and believing in your name.
Success is not a point or goal to seek,
Success is, believing you have never reached the peak.
Success is
Oh my defeat!  Long live!
You are my faithful wife-and
No one would come
For your relationship,
Oh my defeat! You are my mirror,
You helped me to see my image,
O my defeat! You are eternal sculptor,
You are an evolution of man,
O my defeat! You are a melting plant,
You are giving weapons to combat my life
Oh my defeat! You are an affable heat,            (Pleasant, friendly)
You are shaping my character to glorify,
Oh my defeat! You are a sharpening stone,
You are making me clever in life,
Oh my defeat! You are my brilliant school,
You taught me to convert the cyclone as my boat,
Oh my defeat! You are my philosopher and guide,
You are refining my ego,
Oh my defeat! You are not my wounds,
But my eyes,
Oh my defeat! Your flame tuned me to the
Level of beautiful flute,
Oh my defeat! You are not creating any loss,
But you are involving me to attain experiences,
Success brings addiction to oneself,
And we lose ourselves,
O my defeat! You are my remunerations,
I can buy the success with that money.
Kaviko in Tamil- aalaabanai.
O holy success, my darling success,
Weather indigo or starry, it'll glow,
As fountain vessel of blood
In my sweet faithful heart.
It shall sprung, from East South or
North West I don't have the idea
From Core Cardinal or spinning of axis
But my willing success i foresaw,
As inevitable as Death, my success' veritable,
Irreplaceable, irresistible, unstopably unchangeable,
O my destiny, I an a glorious child
No matter how far the Sky, I'll win
No matter how scary king Pharaoh, I'll rule,
My skin black, my brain pure, my glory shines,
Thou Suns smile, the star applause to the moon
I'm a king, nonnegotiable's my success,
Welcome abode, my success.
Who says that things cannot be done?
Nothing’s impossible on earth;
Most things are possible under the sun;
But perseverance should be thine friend!
The one who gives up with ease is a fool!
The wise person labors with determination;
Yet, one must choose the things that one can do,
And go full steam ahead, till comes success.
Perseverance is the secret of success;
By continual toil, failures can be avoided;
Great things were done by burning mid-night’s oil!
“The toiler harvests best of fruits in life.”
I looked behind me
and I saw the mountains
in their silence-night and day,
but deep with-in
tears and sweat that crept
and to the earth life,
who’s solitude is my strength
and carriage to take one more step
to reach the other side of me
The road to success is not straight,
There is a curve called FAILURE,
A loop called CONFUSION,
Speed bumps called FRIENDS,
Red light called ENEMIES and
caution lights called FAMILY.
But if you have a spare called
DETERMINATION,
An engine called PERSEVERANCE,
Insurance called FAITH and
A driver called JESUS (GOD, ALLAH, ISHVAR)
You will make it to a place called
SUCCESS
The secret of my success
is that I’m as crazy as a coot.
I am so full of silliness
my wife often denies she is with me.
When I get dressed for parties
and someone is giving me a lift
they shove me in the backseat
telling me to duck down
as far as I can get
as they do not want to be seen
with a crazy man in their car.
My answer to all this,
is that we need a few crazy people
who are just like me,
to bring a smile around,
stop everyone getting bored.
My motto is quite simple
a smile a day
keeps the miseries at bay;
a laugh is a dropp of sunshine
to those who wear a frown.
Maybe I should have a craziness day
so everyone can join in
and have as our trademark
a big lop-sided GRIN.
I dont know it.
Fish would think those are winners who swim fast.
Lions may insist those are losers who run last.
It's ridiculous to mold yourself into their value cast
If you are a bird who can only fly to get your lifetime pleasantly passed.
(To enjoy the nusic for this poem, please see the poet's profile for the website.)
Just like how ocean’s waves all fall and rise,
Again, again incessantly, forev’r!
When failures come, remain we must most wise,
And try again, again but quit never.
The greatest men had failures too, much more;
Yet undeterred, they fought their way through them;
Recurrent failures could open new door;
Perseverance must be success emblem.
Learn from each failure but never look back;
Let world comment and mock, ’tis not for long;
But never do become lethargic/ slack;
No one predicts when rings your success gong!
Great men were dull once but never gave up;
Always in life, like a steed you gallop.
Many things man wants to do in his life,
By roads easy and free himself from strife;
And many times he fails by foolish plans,
And designs, he ambitions tallness sans.
Failures are due to poor strategy oft,
And determinations that become soft;
Choosing the right field is quite important;
Come success to those who work incessant.
Weigh then the pros and cons of doing things,
And estimate the profit/ stress, life brings;
Check out if body’s fit for hardest work;
In case you fail, then never go berserk.
Faith, hope and hard work are most crucial things,
And this is true too of Poesy’s Wings.
Don't lose your heart if failures come with ease;
Build up courage and try again-succeed;
Let failures not disturb your mental peace;
Delayed if mirth is sure to well exceed.
Rewards may come to some in ways unknown;
Rewards may miss the truly talented;
Rewards may make a person sometimes clown;
All flowers aren't born to be well-scented.
Though failures come, our duty we must do;
Let Nature take its time and course it must;
Results could be very untoward too;
Our human eyes cannot avoid road-dust.
The patient man will soon succeed in life;
But one knows not, how long can last one's strife.
Oh, shed your inhibitions; do something!
However long, one’s span of life is short;
Our little problems should not despair bring,
Nor steal the liveliness of our dear heart.
So, think aright; solutions surely come;
‘Never give up, ’- is the great man’s secret!
Great things are done by the blind, deaf and dumb;
Don’t be lazy; waste not time, fume or fret.
The biggest tree was born a sapling first;
All mammoth tasks can be broken to bits;
To do a thing that’s great, labor we must;
Sustained effort is important, not fits.
And start, we must from scratch some day, some way;
Earlier the better, you should not delay!
8-20-2002
Making decision for all with talent and fully clarity
Working with equity and sincerity
Judging freely with justice and honesty
Make developed a person, a nation and a country.
Copyright © Muzahidul Reza |  09/23/2017
Someone once called me a failure
for the publications that I lacked,
but I think they were wrong,
Success is not how much money
or gold that you earn.
Success is how many friends
in your life can hold,
for they are more precious
than money or gold.
Friendship has no price tag,
it cannot be bought or sold
and it comes from a heart of gold.
Therefore, in the future
any friends you may acquire
treat them with respect
unless you wish
their friendship to expire.
7 December 2007
Every ripple does not make a wave
Each wave does not reach the shore
Yet they are made and kept sending
The reason we are taught
Life is like an ocean
And our endeavours are like ripples
We should keep making them
Few of them will create a poem like waves
And sometimes make you float up on the shore of success.
I sit on the tracks,
a hundred feet from
earth, fifty from the
water. Gerald is
inching toward me
as grim, slow, and
determined as a
season, because he
has no trade and wants
none. It's been nine months
since I last listened
to his fate, but I
know what he will say:
he's the fire hydrant
of the underdog.
When he reaches my
point above the creek,
he sits down without
salutation, and
spits profoundly out
past the edge, and peeks
for meaning in the
ripple it brings. He
scowls. He speaks: when you
walk down any street
you see nothing but
coagulations
of shit and vomit,
and I'm sick of it.
I suggest suicide;
he prefers murder,
and spits again for
the sake of all the
great devout losers.
A conductor's horn
concerto breaks the
air, and we, two doomed
pennies on the track,
shove off and somersault
like anesthetized
fleas, ruffling the
ideal locomotive
poised on the water
with our light, dry bodies.
Gerald shouts
terrifically as
he sails downstream like
a young man with a
destination. I
swim toward shore as
fast as my boots will
allow; as always,
neglecting to drown.
So many people
Work long hours, even weeks,
Without successes.
Each success has name
Women are there to claim
Stands like rock behind
Firm but very much kind
Right from wife
To show the meaning of life
To give a company with courage
How best both the ends to meet and manage!
Delightful figure to a small child
Stick on hand but at heart good and mild
No one can control her when turned wild
If honor and pride was to be seen as blind
As daughter too shown enough of affection
No protest to any one if beaten with reaction
Not only equal love to father, mother and brothers
But around all who live in vicinity and as neighbors
Good teacher, good economist and now good administrator
Right from councilor to chief minister and prime minister
Has served the head of the nation and now liberty torch bearer
Women can lead honorable life without any fear
Sky they have explored and proved good scientists
Stood as solid rock and faced rough weather amidst
So to say bow the head to the feat of glorious mother
Be she a lover, friend, sister or in form of any other
Failures infinite in life
Despair-- Demoralisation--- Depression-
Hence success by mere thoughts
At least momentary happiness-- bliss--- ecstasy--
To reap the joy of the implausible
The unattained fulfilment of the feat
Which proved to be defeat
Thus success in failure.
Note: With umpteen failures in life where there's no success at all a bit of momentary happiness can be gained by thinking of it.
success is something
which u  keep chasing
until u trap it in net
and lock it up
and look day and night
that the prisoner wont escape
and be caught somewhere else
by people who wont set it free
just like u planned to keep
and once it escapes
it leads to fighting and pain
and even break between success seeking friends
some think why is it important
to fight for such a thing
to strive without a friend
to waste time searching
but only few know the advantage of its presence.............................
Success is counted sweetest
By those who ne'er succeed.
To comprehend a nectar
Requires sorest need.
Not one of all the purple Host
Who took the Flag today
Can tell the definition
So clear of Victory
As he defeated--dying--
On whose forbidden ear
The distant strains of triumph
Burst agonized and clear!
If Success was Happiness
Then achievers would be glad
But look around and you will find
That many of them are sad
Of course, Achievement gives joy
And excitement, oh boy!
But when our need becomes our greed
To misery, this will lead
The whole world is chasing Success
Everyone wants achievement
Sometimes we win, sometimes we lose
There is no Contentment
Why do people want to succeed?
Why is everyone in a race?
The Truth is that we want to win
So that there is a smile on our face
But though we win, we are not glad
We have money, why are we sad?
Happiness is not money, the sages said
It's sleeping soundly when you are in bed
We hear of suicides in the homes of the rich
If they were Happy, then why this glitch?
Although they are achievers, this fact we know
They are not Happy, their face has no glow
If successful, but unhappy, what is the use?
Winning or smiling, what would you choose?
The purpose of Success is for us to be glad
What is the use of winning, if it makes us sad?
Happiness is something different, we learn
Not just money that we earn and burn
Happiness is built on a foundation of peace
Then we are blissful like waves in the seas
Look around at the people who are glad
They live in the moment, they are never sad
They don't swing from the future to the past
They are the ones whose Happiness lasts
Happiness has no price tag, know this my friend
It's a state of mind where nothing can offend
It's being able to smile, and able to laugh
Not just trying to raise our Success graph
We can't measure joy in dollar and pound
Happy is he who peace has found
Though we may fly the world around
We may be miserable on the ground
Success is not Happiness, this Truth we must know
We may have everything, what's the use of this show?
The truly successful one is he
Who lives with smile, laughter, and glee
If one is Happy, then one has achieved all
One doesn't have to be rich and in fame be tall
One can have little, but if content is he
Then he can live joyously
Achievement gives Happiness, this fact we know
But with Fulfilment and Contentment, does Happiness grow
One who is Happy, doesn't need to win
He has Peace and Joy without committing sin
Joy doesn't need a foundation of cash
One doesn't have to be rich, to enjoy life's bash
Happiness is a simple state of the mind
It comes from being loving, it comes from being Kind
Happiness is Success. It is achieving life's goal
It is being Happy in the heart, Peaceful in the Soul
True Happiness is eternal, not just a moment of joy
It last's forever, it can't be destroyed
Success is a journey of valleys and peaks
Life is a see-saw, there arelaughs and squeaks
Success, unlike Happiness, doesn't last for long
But the truly Happy ones always sing a Happy song
So, Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success
You may be an achiever, whose heart is not at rest
But though not successful, if Happy you are
Then you are an achiever, you are the very best
Success is yours
Just reach higher
Never give up
Be the person that inspires
Follow your dreams
Keep pushing through
Do not let anyone
Try to deter you
success knock your doors
when your strange emptiness veiled out
and you experience spiritual dimensions
on the part of your life when material wane!
Be a beloved, my dear
Your success lies
In the realization of Truth
That is in Love.
Why the heart beats..? ,
Because
It tries to escape
From man, a sinner,
And would achieve one day;
That is the day..!
The man  would be also
Relieved from sinful
Thoughts, And ends
Committing immoral,
And reaches ‘haven or hell’,
Who knows? ..,
And he does not know
When the heart wins;
But the clans know the day
When it happens...
Kites play with birds and clouds
Delicate wishes get desired wings
He defeats failures with great hardships
And it seems he makes friendship with wind
Dances naked along with his insane whims
But his success depends on how he kisses the ground
Unhurt, unclipped along with storm and   rain!
Want is the crop of give
Every bond is strategic
With friendly objective
Kith and kin— love and hate
Birth or death— friend or foe
— hidden fiber of latent snake
Success is correlated
With milk and banana stock
He has achieved success
who has lived well,
laughed often, and loved much;
who has enjoyed the trust of
pure women,
the respect of intelligent men and
the love of little children;
who has filled his niche and accomplished his task;
who has left the world better than he found it
whether by an improved poppy,
a perfect poem or a rescued soul;
who has never lacked appreciation of Earth's beauty
or failed to express it;
who has always looked for the best in others and
given them the best he had;
whose life was an inspiration;
whose memory a benediction.
success is what i feel when i achieve something
success is what i feel when i believe in god
success is what i feel when i have a good relationship
success is what i feel when i have a good job
success is what i feel when my life is complete
Success is measured,
Not by wealth
Nor by position or fame
And not by power
Or pride in self
And not by size of gain,
It’s being truly happy
with what you have
Whatever that may be
Success is being
content, with God
as the center of your family
Copyright C R Clark-July 4,1981
What do we know about world peace?
It's a wonderful concept
And I could say
The same about Communism
Success is fraught with failures,
only those who keep trying in the face of adversity.
Will overcome the odds, and are the ones who will succeed.
i want to be an an actress everyone screaming my name  all my movies  golden globe
i want to be a model strutting down that runway all eyes on me on the cover of vouge or ebony
i want to be a singer crowd surfing performing much better than beyonce
i want to be a fashionista all my clothes blowing dolce and gabanna out of the water
Oft have I brooded on defeat and pain,
The pathos of the stupid, stumbling throng.
These I ignore to-day and only long
To pour my soul forth in one trumpet strain,
One clear, grief-shattering, triumphant song,
For all the victories of man's high endeavor,
Palm-bearing, laurel deeds that live forever,
The splendor clothing him whose will is strong.
Hast thou beheld the deep, glad eyes of one
Who has persisted and achieved? Rejoice!
On naught diviner shines the all-seeing sun.
Salute him with free heart and choral voice,
'Midst flippant, feeble crowds of spectres wan,
The bold, significant, successful man.
To achieve success is not my aim
I do not recognize success and
I do not care failure
I know success is not necessary
To lead a good life
I know I like what I do
And who am I to do
I am nobody to do anything and
Success has no meaning for me.
Success lies beneath the popular support
If you maintain contacts and good rapport
It will be great encouragement and strength
If maintained on same wavelength
What amounts to failure or success?
When you fail to have full access
Relentless efforts with continuous zeal
It will mark a” finish” with final seal
It makes very great difference?
If you fail to draw correct inference
You must heed and pay to an expert advice
When something fails as mechanical device
United we stand and divided we fall
If you not wake up and not heed to call
You can swim against rising waves
With resolute action ways may pave
People will be frustrated and annoyed
If message is not be properly conveyed
Close your hand and it will form strength
People will follow it with same good length
Young may have to sacrifice and die
Not to give way and not simply lie
It is need of an hour and must rise to occasion
Not to wait for chance or battle for succession
More you work in peace time than less you may bleed
Success may touch your feet and you may succeed
Why not take chance and work for peace?
Life may be normal and you may leave at  ease
Did you see that man riding past,
With shoulders bowed with care?
There’s failure in his eyes to last,
And in his heart despair.
He seldom looks to left or right,
He nods, but speaks to none,
And he’s a man who fought the fight—
God knows how hard!—and won.
No great “review” could rouse him now,
No printed lies could sting;
No kindness smooth his knitted brow,
Nor wrong one new line bring.
Through dull, dumb days and brooding nights,
From years of storm and stress,
He’s riding down from lonely heights—
The Mountains of Success.
He sees across the darkening land
The graveyards on the coasts;
He sees the broken columns stand
Like cold and bitter ghosts;
His world is dead while yet he lives,
Though known in continents;
His camp is where his country gives
Its pauper monuments.
What is Success
according to you,
If you ask me
i have no clue!
Some say, Success is how high you bounce
when you hit the bottom,
But the real meaning is
only understood by some.
What is success
with which everyone is so obsessed
Getting promotion in a job?
which will make you further slog!
Earning umpteen money?
that does not long last as its only a penny!
Buying a new phone or a car?
does it take you very far!
Scoring good marks in examinations?
long way to go though will temporarily ease your tension!
If you ask me honestly
One thing I can say instantly is
Success comes from happiness,
When you are a reason for someone's smile and cheerfulness
You have people caring for you, waiting for you
You are thought about and loved though by selected trustworthy few
You have a splendid time with your loved one or close buddy
You invest time in yourself and accomplish your long outstanding hobby
At the end I feel, when you have a good satisfying day
Success comes with you in your way!
Man dreams....
for an achievement in life,
a real accomplishment to be proud of
like attaining victory
in most if not all quests
to triumph in a contest
and hit the goal
as a winner
with great sensation!
Success means being successful.
If I were to be not myself,
then I would rather not want this success,
If I were to unlearn all my values and principles,
then what is the use of learning the tactics of this success,
If I were to barter the blissful moments with my loved ones, for this maddening race, then I would prefer, this success, to not to be chased.
If my smile and emotions have to be fake,
then I would rather not socialize just for the heck (of it) .
Yes, it is important even for me to have success,
The realization of aspirations is what is my success.
The utilization of skills and tapping of potential, is what is my success..
The zeal to learn and always wanting to improve, is what is my success..
To compete with none but myself, is what is my success..
The satisfaction of giving and contributing, is my success..
I want this success and am moving only towards this SUCCESS! !
You ask me what I call Success -
It is, I wonder, Happiness?
It is not wealth, it is not fame,
Nor rank, nor power nor honoured name.
It is not triumph in the Arts -
Best-selling books or leading parts.
It is not plaudits of the crowd,
The flame of flags, processions proud.
The panegyrics of the Press
are but the mirage of Success.
You may have all of them, my friend,
Yet be a failure in the end.
I've know proud Presidents of banks
Who've fought their way up from the ranks,
And party leaders of renown
Who played as boys in Shantytown.
Strong, self-made men, yet seek to trace
Benignity in any face;
Grim purpose, mastery maybe,
Yet never sweet serenity;
Never contentment, thoughts that bless -
That mellow joy I deem Success.
The haply seek some humble hearth,
Quite poor in goods yet rich in mirth,
And see a man of common clay
Watching his little ones at play;
A laughing fellow full of cheer,
Health, strength and faith that mocks at fear;
Who for his happiness relies
On joys he lights in other eyes;
He loves his home and envies none. . . .
Who happier beneath the sun?
Aye, though he walk in lowly ways,
Shining Success has crowned his days.
I think if you had loved me when I wanted;
If I'd looked up one day, and seen your eyes,
And found my wild sick blasphemous prayer granted,
And your brown face, that's full of pity and wise,
Flushed suddenly; the white godhead in new fear
Intolerably so struggling, and so shamed;
Most holy and far, if you'd come all too near,
If earth had seen Earth's lordliest wild limbs tamed,
Shaken, and trapped, and shivering, for MY touch --
Myself should I have slain? or that foul you?
But this the strange gods, who had given so much,
To have seen and known you, this they might not do.
One last shame's spared me, one black word's unspoken;
And I'm alone; and you have not awoken.
Success
What is success?
Is it a good job?
Is it a lot of money?
Is it a high ranking social status?
Is it a happy family?
Is it good looks?
Is it popularity?
Or perhaps is it even a ticket to heaven?
Or hell?
What about eternal life one earth?
Today in society's commen sense and point of view
Money, Power, Fame
That is success
They stamp it into your head and create the thought
SUCCESS
Yes a wonderful yet mysterious word
As for me
That is not success to me
Success is HAPPINNESS
That is success to me
Yes
Success
Do I wander through life aimlessly?
Wild, reckless, inconsiderate
Unmindful of the consequences of my behaviour
Do I run wild in a savage stupor?
Pugnacious, belligerent, impolite
Unconscious of the altitude of my ignorance
Unaware of the latitude of my negligence
Carefree
Leaving a trail of scarcity
Along a path of regret
Leaving years of psychological scars
In the repressed minds of distressed adults
In the misguided souls of troubled youths
Will I leave disillusioned children?
Angry and confused
Shameful and misguided
Lost and astray
Crying for direction
Weeping for guidance
Longing for unconditional love
Grieving for sound judgement
For I taught them not a lifetime of wisdom
For wisdom was not important
For I offered them not sound advice
For I never took life seriously
For I taught them not discipline
For I was reckless and immature
For I showed them naught but a dropp of love
For my selfishness knew no bounds
Will I leave disappointed partners?
Bitter and frustrated
Troubled and wounded
Disturbed and injured
Wishing for sincerity
Longing for honesty
Praying for fidelity
Yearning for faithfulness
For I killed their trust
Due to my shamelessness
For I eradicated their hope
Due to my disrespect
For I damaged their faith
Due to my infidelity
For I destroyed their confidence
Due to my deception
For I killed their self development
Due to my ignorance
Will I leave appalled individuals?
Disgusted and revolted
Unconcerned and apathetic
Sarcastic and scornful
Mocking my ignorance
Sickened at my negligence
Horrified at my irresponsibility
Deriding my financial intelligence
Appalled at my selfishness
For I disrespected many good folk
In the name of humour
Mere mockery in fact
For I abused much kindness
In the name of friendship
Sheer exploitation to be precise
For I never listened to others
In the name of intelligence
Simply arrogance no doubt
For I spoke ill of people
In the name wisdom
Purely foolishness indeed
For I was impatient with the most enduring
In the name of progress
Clearly mental commotion
For I was unforgiving with the most compassionate
In the name of truth
Conceitedness in fact
Fatherhood was not my forte
For I struggled to maintain my youth
Relationship was not my aspiration
For I disliked commitment
Friendship was not my goal
For I detested disagreement
Education was not my focus
For I found it a bore
Investment was not my desire
For I cherished the consumer lifestyle
Responsibility was not my wish
For I cherished excitement and folic
Discipline was not my want
For I enjoyed ease
Devotion was not my focal point
For I choose carelessness
So what will you leave?
A story of inspiration through your achievements
A fable of love through your affection
An account of devotion through your loyalty
A description of success through your diligence
A portrayal of courage through your chosen path
A depiction of wisdom through your experiences
An illustration of happiness through your humour
An image of resilience through your adversity
A report of wealth through your acumen
A tale of nobility through your actions
A myth of grandeur through your life of contribution
Let us all be remembered
For the lives we touched
For the people helped
For the wisdom we shared
For the stories we told
For the laughter we initiated
For the love we gave
For the affection we showed
For the good role models we were
For the communities we inspired
For the youth we guided
For the hungry we feed
For the needy we assisted
For the success we created
For the risk we took
For the world we changed
Let us write down our stories
Let us tell our experiences
Let us record our tales
Let us share our struggles
For our children
For our grandchildren
For generations to see
For generations to hear
As a source of hope
As a source of wisdom
As a source of guidance
As an example of our legacy
So what will you leave?
She was as timid as a mouse.
Kept firmly under mothers thumb
she very rarely left the house.
Her mother taught her she was dumb.
But mother died and she was free
to do the things she wanted to.
None to frown disapprovingly
and tell what her she had to do.
An innocent of twenty three
Although she lacked self confidence.
She was still wise enough to be
well guided by her common sense.
She knew that she must take it slow.
There was so much she had to learn,
so many things she did not know.
Each hurdle she would take in turn.
She was resolved to seek advice
but was not sure where she would find
Although she could afford the price,
Advice that was both wise and kind.
Her mother’s sister Aunty Jean
was who she took her troubles to
A lady who had always been
disapproved of by mother too.
So Aunty Jean took her in hand
and showed her how she ought to dress.,
Wise enough to understand
that her young niece felt helpless.
A lifetime under Mothers thumb
had left its mark indelibly,
A problem she must overcome
before she was completely free.
to be the woman she should be
They worked together as a team
moving forward very slowly
But in due course fulfilled her dream.
Now with her new found confidence.
She was a woman self possessed,
well made up and smartly dressed.
Her mother’s ghost now laid to rest.
Freed from her mothers influence.
No longer dowdy and afraid.
Epitome of elegance
She was a model highly paid.
Though mother would have disapproved
well armoured in her prudishness
that she was wrong her daughter proved
By her own efforts a success.
Mothers do not always know best
Although they always think they do
I think this mother failed the test
She knew less than she thought she knew.
12-Aug-08
http: // blog my space.com/poeticpiers
Does success blind the man completely?
Not wait and go for its show immediately?
If he is earthly man then will slowly digest,
Means and ways set first and then suggest,
Only clever and seasoned will be enjoying,
All of sudden success may lead to annoying,
Way of living may bring tremendous change,
Confidence enhanced and disorderly manage,
Somebody may diversify to honouable living,
Purchase of luxurious cars and self driving, ,
Honest may prefer and turn to charity reviving,
Rest may go for sight seeing and sea diving,
It brings dramatic change in way of thinking,
Sudden urge and change some time lead to sinking,
Arrogance and power blind a person,
As sudden change you may find with season,
You look towards fellow brothers as inferior creature,
Their hello and address bite you as vulture,
You feel their company danger for future,
Ill feeling and distrust in mind nurture,
This all takes away from main stream,
Success story makes you to believe as dream,
You feel as if you had God given chance,
Forget the past and visit the club for dance,
Drink, drug and smacks are natural ally,
Money in hand doesn’t look silly,
Pushed to the dark as time go on,
No way to come back, not even soon,
It will be nightmare or bad dream,
Success may blind but not allow to scream,
You will be completely cut off from friends,
Down to earth when success story ends
Success has another story to tell,
People have learnt how to remain well,
Act as humble and good ideas sell,
Where does then bad or descend the hell
the best thing to do
is throw a coin in the wishing well
then wait.
Education is relevant for a person to be successful.
Education empowers a person to become a leader.
Great opportunities are presented to professionals.
The future of a Person can be unpredictable if she lacks education;
an uneducated person does not have the knowledge
of what the future has to offer for her.
Education is an essential tool to make a pleasant and stable living out of a simple quotidian life.
High Education contributes to the increase of the graduate
in her social economic level.
Education is the main Factor for one to become wealthy,
Millionaire, or even
Multimillionaire.
Education offers the opportunity for a person
to become the owner of a mansion.
Education brings one the opportunity to please herself.
Perhaps, getting to travel often to interesting countries/places, or
to be the owner of the latest new brand sport car.
Education enables one to reach success.
Education makes one become influential.
Education gives one the opportunity to be
at the top with the highest wage.
Education gives one self-fulfillment.
A thief can take away money, a car, a property from a person.
but is definitely impossible to take education away from someone.
Education is worth $10,000 $50,000 $1000,000
0ne puts it value!
Education is certainly the main Element to become successful
and overall to reach one’s goals and dreams.
Bitterness in life
Cannot be avoided
Without emotional involvement.
Though, we try
To make aur decesions
Without the fear
Of failure.
But to earn
The real success in life
And get stronger and stronger
With the passage of time,
We have to be dependent on the
Will of God
For God has set
A path for us
To follow and excel.
Success is a journey not a destination a year from
now you may wish you had started today.
Every beginner is a winner.  Success is not escaping problems but facing them creatively.
There is no success without sacrifice.
Great success always calls for great sacrifice.
Even failure can become an important ingredient to success.
Failure just means that you have not yet succeeded.
I’d rather change my mind and succeed than have my own way and fail.  Success without conflict is unrealistic.
Any person can be successful on smooth seas,
but it is the victory over the storm that gains true honor.
Success doesn’t come through the way you think it comes;
it comes through the way you think.
Never settle for less than success.
Success is doing something good.
When you can, where you can, while you can.
It’s better to attempt to do something great and fail,
than attempt to do nothing and succeed.
Success is not necessarily reaching your goal- but reaching the maximum possibilities in light of the opportunities that come your way.
To keep your values on target remember to live so that when you “arrive”, you’ll have pride behind you and hope ahead of you.
The success is truly the path to heaven.
Success is never ending, because success is like the process of seed planting.  Every creative contribution like a seed planted may bear fruit.
Success finally is not what you have it is not what you do;
it is who you are, and what
you want to become of yourself.
The Road to Success
We all want to walk on the road of success
But do you day by day measure your progress
Do you have a vision?
Do you have a mission?
You need one even if it is inspired by television
We all want to walk on the road of success
But do you day by day measure your progress
Critically look at your personal development
Grizzle over the final accomplishment
Decide on the instruments you need at the moment?
On its road, there are many paths to take
With many sacrifices along the way to make
Patience, faith and hard work, please don’t forsake
Or your dreams will pour empty into a wide lake
We all want to walk on the road of success
But do you day by day measure your progress
Is your vision greater than greatness?
You are the first one you must try to impress
Take a step at a time and do not digress
For success when achieved, I say without sarcasm
Is more gratifying than any orgasm
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
The road to success is not straight.
There is a curve called FAILURE,
A loop called CONFUSION,
Speed bumps called FRIENDS,
Red lights called ENEMIES,
Caution lights called FAMILY,
You will have flats called JOBS.
BUT
You do have a spare called DETERMINATION,
An engine called PERSEVERANCE,
Your insurance is called FAITH,
Your driver is GOD!
You will make it to the called SUCCESS, but
There will be one more trip to make.
And when that one is done,
Guess who will be there to welcome you?
And state to you' JOB WELL DONE'
May GRACE be with you and PEACE be upon you.
When young I often thought success,
Meant wealth and power I must stress,
An easy life, with all lifes pleasures,
A mansion high, with worldly treasures,
Tours abroad to places new,
While in some bank my money grew,
Some people yes, tis aim they try,
Yet still a dream for you and I .
Late in life I thought again,
Together still through joys and pain,
Yes, we are wed through all those years
Sharing troubled times and tears,
Our money spent on all our plans,
Yet still so happy, holding hands,
Our children grown, as we grew old,
Your love for me worth more than gold
This love we share, I now caress,
I feel the secret of success.
Success is
Not...a...
Satisfation of life...
Move to other work...
Want to success...!
Success is
Life sample win
At the time...
Born to death...
Wanted for success...
For life...
All life is not success
Success is not all life...
it is timing nature...
We are dreamy creature
Long for the things which is unsure
Why does then human being dream?
When they can't think of forming even a team
Each time we dream and remain quiet
Allow the spring to pass off and autumn to let
No one has changed their style except man
We are no exception but remain unchanged as human
Dreams are always beautiful
Sometimes provide key to be successful
We laugh it out and take no note
Meanwhile the water may seep in and sink the boat
Dreams need nice push
Credible effort without any rush
It may definitely pay in long run
As nothing is impossible under the Sun
Not all the kids survive after birth
Not all the pots come out safe even if nicely berthed
So think of some success after great struggle
It is yardstick for every thing to succeed little
It is always nice to think high
Couple it with dreamy planning slight
It may come off the ground well
Success story may thereafter definitely tell
Today we will open the Toolbox of Success
and examine each tool,
so as to succeed in everything
using it to the very full.
Ok. You're getting angry, but can you wait?
Or switch off this TV, to study even if it’s late?
Or forego the burger to save your health?
Or try to be humble in spite of your wealth?
You need the patience
to forego something minor now,
to achieve something major in the future:
this is the essence.
So patience is the most powerful tool
to fool around
for success in everything;
it lays the ground.
It is a bit difficult, though a rewarding journey:
from instant pleasure to efforts for the future,
from temptation of now to wait and nurture,
and you're in control all around.
Again—are you grumbling or blaming others?
Or do you take full responsibility for your affairs?
Either you won't see what’s that bothers
or you’ll be able to decide and take all the cares.
So assuming responsibility’s another powerful tool
to fool around
for success in everything;
it lays the ground.
It is a bit difficult, though a rewarding journey:
from shifting blame to accepting your faults,
from defense mechanism to confidence-vault,
and you're in control all around.
Again—are you constantly updated with realty?
And use new ideas to fuel your imagination?
Either you're open with all options, possibilities,
or stuck in the old rut with knee-jerk reaction.
Determining what applies to a situation is a powerful tool
to fool around
for success in everything;
it lays the ground.
It is a bit difficult, though a rewarding journey:
from the rigid outlook to a flexible approach,
from sheer stagnation to change is brought,
and you're in control all around.
When and how much of these techniques but to use:
to enjoy the beauty of a flower should you choose?
or when and how much even anger can be shown?
or take responsibility that's not yours even to muse?
or how much the new from the old is to be drawn?
This is called balancing, another powerful tool
to fool around
for success in everything;
it lays the ground.
It is a bit difficult, though a rewarding journey:
from strictly applying tools to modifying for need,
knowing how much discipline, the discipline needs?
And you're in control all around.
Finally, what is the toolbox of success that holds
all these tools, creating an urge in you so bold?
Love—that's what contains them all into its fold:
for his brighter future, a mother makes her son—
though it pains her—study hard and to slog on.
So from the Toolbox of Success, the love,
pick up these powerful tools
to fool around
for success in everything;
it lays the ground.
@Copyright reserved by the author
Inhabit
Good habits,
Douse the darks!
Rouse yourself
13/6/2012
Man, victim of his own success, must fast grasp opportunity
to offer all equality of chances and advances stress
as the ability to press for rights for disability
the strong ignore, or fail to bless.
Man, victim of his own success, does not deserve impunity
when biosphere supportive he still stifles in the name of, - guess, -
‘Democracy’, free-choice oppress through ways of ta[l]king liberty
as only freedom to repress.
Man, victim of his own success, - tale’s pun, - few marks of modesty
retains, yet with anxiety observes galactic game of chess
while most Earth’s problems won’t address.  This manifest dichotomy
highlights concerns we should assess.
Man, victim of his own success, needs to transcend his history
predative, channel energy towards solutions which suppress
his immaturity, redress the balance of society,
extend awareness free from stress.
Man, victim of his own success, must sail beyond tsunami he
created to a safer sea where winds of change may not express
a whirlwind strange that all confess none can control. Society
must change or soon will sink, regress.
Man, victim of his own success, must map return to sanity,
respect with assiduity the planet’s need to convalesce,
create conditions which attest acceptance by humanity
of overview which won’t aggress.
Man, victim of his own success, must understand ecology
requires intrinsic harmony, may join “I wish”  to “I possess”
providing much more, - never less, - is harvested with equity,
without the urge to dispossess.
Man, victim of his own success should heed the lessons most agree
accompany pride’s apogee, and not attempt to second guess
the seasons’ reasons or finesse.  Where just fat few progress we see
misuse far more than maladdresse.
Man, victim of his own success, beyond base skills of repartee,
should take time off from Time to key into distortions which transgress
ideals which should not ever stress the views of tight community
or vested interests.  Nonetheless, -
Man, victim of his own success, must meet the challenges that he
has catalyzed - calamity around the corner waits unless
he acts -  declines to acquiesque with urbane equanimity, -
protects his progeny’s success…
Which, victim of its own success, may stray from birthright destiny
to cul-de-sac of history, through compromise, increase distress
or narrow hopes where scope could press for change proactive, remedy
renewed temptations to digress through need to influence, impress,
the generations yet to be, compress its chances - tragedy
whose risks too high remain as we depict the options which depress
the outlook for our century.
(c)     Jonathan Robin 1992 -2006
10 October 1992,3 October 2006
What is the journey to success?
Success is not gained by defeat
Success does not occur over night
Success can emerge at any age
Success is working to full potential
Success is courage
Success is lending a hand
Success is not listening to negativity
Success is being positive
Success is living your life instead of the life of others
Success is being proud
Success is overcoming obstacles
Success is striving
Success is listening to your heart
Most of all success is accepting
What you have accomplished
Success is not merely becoming wealthy.
Success is not only working for remaining healthy.
Success is not going after fame and name.
Success is not living life for such mind game.
Success is not just taking career to the top.
Success is not staying in a bungalow at the hill top.
Success is working hard for your dreams you believe.
Success is perseverance and efforts till you achieve your deal.
Success is having consideration for everyone.
Success is a strong desire and to live to help each one.
Success is to follow the religion of humanity.
Success is to always remember all pervading divinity.
Success is to follow the principle, “Live and let others live.”
Success is to accept others as diversity of nature; beautiful and alive.
Success is working for happiness of the world, a dedication.
Success is to love everyone unconditionally without any expectation.
What is success it has never been mine
In their different ways people it do define
Some see success as money to your name
As a lack of such a barrier to fame
Though others with such thinking do not agree
Success in quite a different way they do see
They will tell you that you cannot know of success
If in your mind no room for happiness
And some do say for a successful life
You do not need what's known as inner strife
The successful person does seem quite carefree
On what success is so few do agree
We all do look at things quite differently
That's how it is and that's how 'twill always be.
in the last analysis
it was not his gullibility
because it could have been so well learned
and the swindling avoided
as early as possible,
frankly speaking
it was his greed, and nothing but his greed,
which made the
swindlers have the last laugh
greed allows
everyone to come and
take everything
everything
The gallows in my garden, people say,
Is new and neat and adequately tall;
I tie the noose on in a knowing way
As one that knots his necktie for a ball;
But just as all the neighbours--on the wall--
Are drawing a long breath to shout "Hurray!"
The strangest whim has seized me. . . . After all
I think I will not hang myself to-day.
To-morrow is the time I get my pay--
My uncle's sword is hanging in the hall--
I see a little cloud all pink and grey--
Perhaps the rector's mother will not call-- I fancy that I heard from Mr. Gall
That mushrooms could be cooked another way--
I never read the works of Juvenal--
I think I will not hang myself to-day.
The world will have another washing-day;
The decadents decay; the pedants pall;
And H.G. Wells has found that children play,
And Bernard Shaw discovered that they squall,
Rationalists are growing rational--
And through thick woods one finds a stream astray
So secret that the very sky seems small--
I think I will not hang myself to-day.
Envoi
Prince, I can hear the trumpet of Germinal,
The tumbrils toiling up the terrible way;
Even to-day your royal head may fall,
I think I will not hang myself to-day.
Felt all that was within, the dread and lonely pain
Fore seeing all the grey clouds, and endless rain
In an entrapment of her bleak, bedroom place
Many scratches of finger nails, adorned her face
Scars of the tormented, and that without release
Collected them like dolls, upon skin like a crease
Sunken eyes reflecting, the soul of a sunken heart
When futures hope seem diminished, and torn apart
Black lines of her heavy make up, drawn down
By so many tears, shed beneath her failed crown
Clasping her wrist, another attempt failed and stings
The music of her emotion, now in her ear doth rings
Though destinies sands, of her future are running out
Upon her lips adorn the kiss, of this deathly spout
That a dagger drawn from a box, of marble and wood
In her bedroom undetermined, to whether she should
The bare trees of autumn, tapping the dark window
Though to convince her, of an alternative innuendo
So much has she lost, that her black nails are tight
Around the handle of this blade, and loosing sight
That with one last breath, stolen by her searing pain
Of final thrust, that this blade pierced without a strain
Into her solemn heart, choking her grief as her blood
Ran like tears, down her breasts, staining like mud
Dropping to the floor, like a seed of the dandelion
Falls upon the winds end, but only to see oblivion
So much of her last thoughts, as her life ebbs away
Never shall she see, the beginning of a new born day
As the time for her life, has slowly begun to stop
From the blades handle, blood spills dropp by drop
Silent now, as her body lays still, grey as the sky
Young was her soul, victimised, too young to die
Alone without a cause.
Alone with no life.
Trying to kill her spirit
That is beginning to die inside.
Alone in her Hell.
Alone in her abyss.
Attempting to end her being
As it pours from her wrists.
Alone without a chance.
Alone with no hope.
Watching the stained blade
As she frees her soul.
Alone in the air.
Alone as she drifts.
Slicing so she can escape
The nightmare's images.
Alone with no will.
Alone with no dreams.
Suicide killing her thoughts,
Silencing her heart's beats.
It isn’t brave, and it isn’t clever,
to inflict pain on other people forever.
Life isn’t all about you.
Your life isn’t all about you.
That rope hangs your family too,
and those pills kill your friends.
The pain, hurt and upset
doesn’t stop when your life ends.
So please don’t do it.
Please just take a moment to think.
People will die with you
when you drink that deadly drink.
Don’t tell me I don’t understand.
Twice I tried and twice I bailed.
Twice I tried and twice I failed.
Don’t tell me I don’t understand.
I came through, and so can you.
Let that light at the end of the tunnel be a fresh start.
Don‘t let it be the glint of the blade that enters your heart.
Think about how many have died.
Think about how many have sat and cried.
Think again about your selfish suicide.
A Recipe for Suicide
Take lies and fears
And a pinch of regret and also
A little confusion and mistakes.
Put sickness and worry
And a cup full of betrayal
In an enormous cauldron of tears.
Mix with depression
And a touch of failure
Until tears rush down your face.
Throw in a miscarriage
And a lost love or two.
Then, broil in a broken heart
At one million degrees
Until overwhelmed with grief and sorrow.
You can tell it’s done
When you can stand no more pain.
Let stand until tired of the madness of the world.
Sprinkle on some jealousy
And serve with sadness and unrest.
Taste a touch of suicide.
Aubrey McClure
Deeming that I were better dead,
"How shall I kill myself?" I said.
Thus mooning by the river Seine
I sought extinction without pain,
When on a bridge I saw a flash
Of lingerie and heard a splash . . .
So as I am a swimmer stout
I plunged and pulled the poor wretch out.
The female that I saved? Ah yes,
To yield the Morgue of one corpse the less,
Apart from all heroic action,
Gave me a moral satisfaction.
was she an old and withered hag,
Too tired of life to long to lag?
Ah no, she was so young and fair
I fell in love with her right there.
And when she took me to her attic
Her gratitude was most emphatic.
A sweet and simple girl she proved,
Distraught because the man she loved
In battle his life-blood had shed . . .
So I, too, told her of my dead,
The girl who in a garret grey
Had coughed and coughed her life away.
Thus as we sought our griefs to smother,
With kisses we consoled each other . . .
And there's the ending of my story;
It wasn't grim, it wasn't gory.
For comforted were hearts forlorn,
And from black sorrow joy was born:
So may our dead dears be forgiving,
And bless the rapture of the living.
A suicide note i write,
for people to understand,
exactly what was going on in my life,
i kept all my troubles inside,
they kept building up and building up,
until in the end
i couldnt take no-more,
i decided to end my life,
it was the only option i had
to get away from it all,
i opened up the kitchen drawer,
a bread knife i saw,
so i slit my wrists,
and watch my blood pour.
Commit suicide to God
Every single day
Tell Him all your pain
And He'll take it all away
Commit suicide to God
Give Him all your heart
Pray for all your needs
And you'll never grow apart
Commit suicide to God
Tell Him you give up
Fell His love overtake you
And let Him lift you up
Commit suicide to God
Every single day
Give it all to Him
And He'll take it all away
All my life my hands have been cold,
and my eyes have never been seen,
my voice has been stolen by a heart that was broken,
and my mind has never been keen..
All my life my feet have been bare,
and my lips have never been known,
my thoughts have been seized by a monotonous tease,
and my character has been turned to stone...
all my life my face has been pale,
and my fingers have never felt lace,
my ankles were bound from the pride so profound,
and my emotions then had no case...
all my life my ears were weak,
and my senses related no care,
my wrists were tied by the man that lied,
and my love was too much to bare!
all my life my screams have been high,
but my words were always ignored,
my tongue was cut, not by who or what,
but by the teeth that have eaten this lore...
All my life my body has been thrown,
but my mind has been ironically kept,
my cries were shot, so i never had got,
comfort from the many tears i wept...
all my life i haved lived in shame,
of the reflection i bare, in this endless blame,
in the way he danced and the way he lied,
in his addictions to his alcohol and his lies...
all my life i have loved him the same,
yet my hatred and hurt all rapidly came,
like the way he touched and the way he lied,
in the name of his daughters suicide...
Depression isn't obvious but suicide is.
My pain nobody sees.
My my mangled body they shall see.
My head was all but a mess.
Depression overtaking me.
Suicide was to be my bid for freedom.
Becuase deppression isn't obvious but suicide is.
Depression is never obvious even when its staring them in the face.
But now suicide will be obvious  how can it not?
Now my life is too much to bear.
Suicide I shall commit.
Now its obvious but its all too late.
bitch you got me goin crazy,
i would rather sit around and smoke a blunt,
then sit here thinkin about you.
i sometimes sit here and think,
is drugs the only way to forget about you,
or is there another way.
my mom says to move on,
my sister says suicide,
but my mind says drugs.
so now i am sitting here smokin a blunt,
a razor blade in my hand,
hoping that this will help me move on.
i am shaking so hard that i cut to deep,
i laugh as i see the crimson blood going down the drain.
suicide,
i finally found the answer.
I can not say
'I understand your pain'
when your pain I haven't been through.
I can only read your words
and tell you that 'I care'.
Suicide is hard to understand
for the one that is left behind,
It's harder if the person left behind is a friend
and you have not 'personally' been affected,
by what they are dealing with.
But, even though,
we have not been through it ourselves,
know that we deeply care,
and although we are halfway around the world
for you,
whenever you are in need,
we will always be there.
30/01/06
I try to keep our memory vague
on the chance that I’ll find better days.
how can something so resplendent
spoil everything that comes after?
what once made me so happy
now leaves me cold and numb
in the frail suicide hour  before dawn.
1-3-08
by shannon flanders
Green-Eyed Suicide
With life such a blur
Wrists scarred from back to front
This is the life for her
This Green-Eyed Suicide
So beautiful as she breaks
Hurting so much more
With every smile she fakes
Shes feeling like shes lost
There is no other way out
Lately its only suicide
Thats all she thinks about
Covered up in bruises
From the parents who should love
The ones who should hold her
But never show a gentle touch
Alone as far as she can tell
She only has her best friend
Though she thinks no one loves her
And is determined this is the end
She doesn't know I love her
She doesn't know how much I care
Now she never will
For she is hanging there
I wish I could've saved her
Before her days were through
She was my best friend
And I gave the only love she knew
Now she lies so lifeless
So beautiful through my tear-stung eyes
She was everything to me
And now she is a Green-Eyed Suicide
do you know what it feels like
to be excluded from the rest
having no clue where to go next
ever felt so desparate to belong
that is how i feel most of the time
im trying so hard to break the walls
but the walls seem to be made of steel
why is it that no-one undertstands me
i want to run away
to a place i can call my own
i want to scream so loud
and let nobody hear me
im bleeding inside
im sick of having to turn to myself only
im stuck in a world that i hate
i hate not only me but everyone around me
Is suicide really suicide or death with a cause
I mean were not breaking any laws
You hate us because we’re different and we dress in black
Because we’re filled with emotion but in conversation we lack
These scar’s we make heal our pain
And stop us going insane
Better to make our blood drip then to spill the lot
Dying happy is fine but living depressed is not
But in the end the choice is yours
Is suicide really suicide or death with a cause
When you feel there is no one to care for you
When you feel that you are all alone in this world
When you feel that you are useless
When you fell that you are a nuisance
When you feel that life itself has turned into a waste
When you feel that no one wants you anymore
When you feel that success is a dream that 'll never come true
When you decide to call in death yourself
Please understand
You are doing the biggest sin of all
Life can never turn itself into a waste
Its YOU who make it useless
Men who have been successful
Have always thought positive
Negative thoughts can never help you
You very well know that
God himself has created you
He has worked hard to bring in life in you
To make you breathe. see, walk, hear and talk
It all has a purpose
And if you call in your guest before that
Its the biggest sin you do
No one is alone
There is always someone
Who stays with you every time, everywhere
And when you reach success,
He reveals himself
Surprising you
Don't you want to see who that is?
Then work harder
You are the most needed
Every little dropp is needed
To make a mighty ocean
So do not call in death yourself
You have no right to do so
Only the creator as the right
To destroy his creation
Besides, knowingly leaving behind the ones who loved you
In vain
Shall increase your sins even more
SUICIDE is NEVER a RIGHT thing to do........................
Where the sun sets and the moon rises,
I will meet you there at night fall
To create pandemonium one last time
But tonight will never be forgotten
For tonight we seal our deaths,
Together eternally we will be free
We climb the mountain and enter the forest
To find a place where the moon shines brightly
We leave an enthralling elegy for our loved ones
Say our goodbyes to all we will not miss
Brace ourselves for what’s about to come
We join hands and take the leap of faith…
I know I'm not alone
lets take a stand
lets fight it together
lets support each other
instead of being alone
lets not go with out a fight
lets not just become
just another teenage suicide
lets fight it
together we can survive
we can take a stand
we can win this battle
Dreams turned to death,
Voice turned to tears,
Love made her forget,
Love ended her years.
Laughter turned to screams,
Life turned to blood,
Love wasn't what it seemed,
Love just wasn't enough.
Hope turned to loneliness,
Smile turned to a frown,
Love caused this emptiness,
Love pushed her down.
Wishes turned to self-hatred,
Body turned to a shell,
Love turned her blade red,
Love became her hell.
Love turned her cold,
Love killed her inside,
Love destroyed her soul,
Love caused her suicide.
love is fake
love is retarted
love is nothing,
but a whisper
of a true suicide
love is stupid
love is dumb
love is nothing,
but a rose
about to die
love is painful
love is shitty
love is nothing,
but a razor
sliding across a wrist
love is  nothing but suicide
A maggot, high up in a tree,
lived there with family of ten,
in roomy hollows of decay
and she remembered back to when
her husband had, while sound asleep,
rolled out of bed and fell to ground.
He broke his neck, the fall was steep
and lay there, still, without a sound
until a bird had picked him up
to take him back to sparrow's nest.
Announced  'You kids, I have some grub'.
Meanwhile our maggotmum got dressed
and told her kids to stay indoor,
while she would go to Rabbit' Heaven,
where cabbage could be had, and more.
She would be back around eleven
with food to feed their hungry mouths.
So, off she went and down the tree,
in early morn' she ventured south.
At the horizon she could see
the greenest fields and garden plots.
So, being careful, mark my words,
she watched for giant juggernauts,
but most of all she feared the birds.
The cabbage patch looked appetising,
she stuffed her pockets to the hilt,
and in the East the sun was rising,
she'd hurry or the food would wilt.
And, once again, she stayed alert,
got to the bottom of her tree,
worn out and swollen feet that hurt,
yet up she climbed the same as he
-her husband- always had ascended:
One foot, of many, up a notch,
then roll your body sideways, splendid.
It guarantees you speed as such.
And, when she rested at the door,
there was no sound from the inside.
She called her kids, then called some more,
fear dilated her pupils wide.
And then, the biggest, foulest mess
of bird poo that she'd ever see
was right in front of her distress.
And so she turned - jumped off the tree.
Well if you wanted honesty,
Thats all you had to say.
I never want to let you down,
It's better off this way.
Have you heard the news that I'm dead.
As I lay in warm red?
But you just stood there motionless,
As I layed there and bled.
Can you hear me cry out to you,
Words I thought I'd choke on?
But my Black Parade is coming,
This is the round you won.
You can preach all you want,
Who's going to save me?
When I say I'm goign to die,
You just stand there and breathe.
I can tase the metallic blood,
And bone shards from my head.
As my life slowly drifts away,
Oh can you feel the dread.
But your the one who caused all this,
I'm gone because of you.
I don't want you to cry for me,
I'm not crying for you.
Well if you wanted honesty,
That's all you had to say.
I never want to let you done,
It's better off this way.
Amy S.
Done for Eng. Strats.9 and for Claire..... I miss you!
Part's by My Chemical Romance/ The Black Parade
I might as well teach myself something useful
And learn to love to hate you well
Then wait to kill you with broken hands
And I wonder, what's a better death?
And can I watch your face
As I kill myself in front of you?
Have my screams run through your veins
The only way to make you not forget me
My blood is on your hands.
There was a time forgetting was better
Now it's more satisfying to watch
Myself die in your sight.
Sufficent breaths
nothing left
of the best
settling for what's thought
good enough
but it's really rough
uncut
Full of hate
anger
meant to die
but wanting to fly
you are the one
left insulted
how's it feel
Not alive
waiting for mutual suicide
just a quick ride
fast
hard fun
the thrill
adrenaline rush
knowing
I am at that breaking point
that's why I run into the arms of
mutual suicide
What do you mean
what's the deal
you say the words
and we both feel like shit
Dull on the inside
victim
on the outside
torn between
middle of me
Not alive
waiting for mutual suicide
just a quick ride
fast
hard fun
the thrill
adrenaline rush
knowing
I am at that breaking point
that's why I run into the arms of
mutual suicide...
I wish it was all over
it would all just end
let life just take over
Life just take
all the pain away
just end all the hurt
I tell myself to
take the pills
my body listens
i fall to the floor
lay there lifeless
not breathing or moving
but nope that didnt work
so i take a blade
to my wrist
the blood flows
like a river down my arm
finally i lay there lifeless
yet again.
not to ever wake up again
to burn in the firey pits of hell.
i went aginst god.
but i was just to numb
to listen to him
but im better off
so is everyone else
As I walked over a hill in my dream...
a graveyard came into view.
A circle of people all dressed in black...
stood silent, not one of them moved.
As I got closer, suddenly I realized...
What I am seeing, couldnt be true.
There sprawled at their feet was a naked, dead body.
Its skin was dry and blue.
As I stood there shocked, in stunned disbelief.
I realized their eyes gazed now upon me.
What I saw in their eyes..I couldnt beleive.
They were all glowing a dark, eerie green.
I felt as if I couldnt move as if my legs were locked.
They started moving slowly towards me.
I prayed, lord wake me up, please make this stop.
They were now so very close, I tried but failed to scream.
They came to halt right before my still body.
Oh my god...this isnt...a dream.
Opening my eye's in horror, I saw a letter fall from the sky.
Before hitting the ground, its started to float becoming level with my face.
The words seemed to be written in blood that had long since dried.
Almost unreadable, quickly it had been written, clearly in haste.
I cant take this pain.
I cant bear the shame.
The life I knew is gone.
Death is the only way.
The letter ended after that fourth crusted line.
I saw a signature at the bottom of the page.
I cried out in fright as I realized fast, that the name was mine.
Weve come for you said a thousand voices, coming from everyway.
The people in black lifted me from the ground.
Slowly they carried me away.
I saw a dark shadow, like a swirling hole, emerge upon the sky.
In it I could hear a million screams...
Drowned by a million cries.
It's now obvious these people arent as they seem.
Their human faces had faded to skulls.
Their teeth had turned from white to green.
I could hear their gleeful laughter...then the dark shadow started to pull.
It felt like a thousand invisible hand's grabbing me.
It was as though they had knives instead of fingers.
All over my body was a violent sting.
As if being bitten by venomous snakes over and over I cried.
The black hole was unrelenting, bringing me towards it oh so slow.
So this is where I go...for dying...no...for committing suicide.
I would have givin anything to go back to my earthly home.
As the last trace of light dissappeared and darkness engulfed.
I awoke with a shudder, sweat pouring from every pore.
As the dream played over in my head I felt repulsed.
There on my night table was a blank sheet of paper and a sharp razor.
my suicide
i want to die
by my looks you want to be me
but you dont know i have nights full of endless
bad dreams so i grab the knife here goes my life
i get the gun this takes a lot of guts
mamas screaming sisters crying while im
in my bedroom dieing
now im sitting on my bed with blood running
down my hands  im one inch away from being dead
i woke up from this dream and started to cry
that was my suicide
I've often wondered why
Old chaps who choose to die
In evil passes,
Before themselves they slay,
Invariably they
Take off their glasses?
As I strolled by the Castle cliff
An oldish chap I set my eyes on,
Who stood so singularly stiff
And stark against the blue horizon;
A poet fashioning a sonnet,
I thought - how rapt he labours on it!
And then I blinked and stood astare,
And questioned at my sight condition,
For I was seeing empty air -
He must have been an apparition.
Amazed I gazed . . . no one was there:
My sanity roused my suspicion.
I strode to where I saw him stand
So solitary in the sun -
Nothing! just empty sew and land,
no smallest sign of anyone.
While down below I heard the roar
Of waves, five hundred feet or more.
I had been drinking, I confess;
There was confusion in my brain,
And I was feeling more or less
The fumes of overnight champagne.
So standing on that dizzy shelf:
"You saw no one," I told myself.
"No need to call the local law,
For after all its not your business.
You just imagined what you saw . . ."
Then I was seized with sudden dizziness:
For at my feet, beyond denying,
A pair of spectacles were lying.
And so I simply let them lie,
And sped from that accursed spot.
No lover of the police am I,
And sooner would be drunk than not.
"I'll scram," said I, "and leave the locals
To find and trace them dam bi-focals."
I watch the world from my room
Waiting for sleep to come
Staring up at the ceiling
Wishing I had a gun
I'd shoot myself
I'd end my pain
Knowing that in the end
I'd lived in vain
And I'd lie to the angels
Say you gave me my death
Then I'd sell my soul
Because I'd have nothing left
I'd look into Heaven
And at the gates be denied
Condemned to Hell
Because I lived a lie
And I watch the world
From inside my room
I lay there and know
This place will be my tomb
I pray to the angels
That they'll just let me die
I'm tired of living
This miserable life
I'd have a knife
Clutched tight in my hand
And I'd pray in my head
Hoping God understands
But I'd be damned
And sent away
When I got to the final
The Judgment Gates
He could never understand
That I really did try
He would just see it
As My Suicide
Here I sit and write this poem
Thinking of all I love and all I hate
Thoughts of suicide thinking its my fate
I think of all the times I used to laugh
And now I wish I'd just die
How did so much misery come in to my life
And now all I have are thoughts of suicide
Crying every night is not the way to live
Heck I'm still a kid
I should be out hanging with all my friends
But these thoughts of suicide haunt my head
Will they care when I am gone
When nothings left expect my thoughts
And this small poem telling everyone
I will be no more in about an hour
Don't try to save me
Just save your tears
Nothing can stop me
Because i have thoughts of suicide
Heres to the end my dear friend
I hope you live life through
This is the end to this girls life
And all her thoughts to boot
Nothing there but my thoughts my secret thoughts of suicide
I've been hurt and I've felt deep pain
But suicide wasn't ever my gain
To think that someone has no other choice
Please know I care, let me be your voice
I've been pretty down and very low
Thought about it myself, would be such a blow
To people who I loved and people who care
They would blame themselves, think they caused their share
You're hurting now over some lost love
Find your self another, that you can be proud of
I can't see the future, I'm only human I know
But killing yourself is no way to go
They are not worth you feeling so sad
Continue your life and you will be glad
Maybe they really aren't worth your time
Out of the darkness you will climb
Never love another more than yourself
Or you'll find yourself sitting on a lonely shelf!
here came nightmares
here came screams
here came wrists
and wasted dreams
here came laughter
here came seeping
here came guilt
and peaceful sleeping
here came today
here came sorrow
here came pain
and the end of tomorrows
As one who  often cares
for people
who suffer  from
some  terminal diseases
such as
leukaemia or myeloma,
who gets   involved
in  hushed discussions
with patients
and relatives
about
the end of life and
how it should be
managed......
I'm very sad
that I am being asked,
just now and then,
to help end a life,
and feel that
if the law
were changed
this would destroy,
forever
the trust
I  now enjoy
with human beings
such as these.
A  quest for help
with  ending
their own life,
takes away forever
any doctor- patient relationship
For the worse.
It spells
the end of it..
Each patient
with a ‘final illness’
or even
a chronic disabling one
like cancer,
heart attack,
Alzheimer's
begins to
feel the pressure
to request this
euthanasia,
which is   suicide’
assisted by the patient,
perhaps
in the coercive hope
of ending
a noticeable burden
on family,
perhaps society,
by not continuing
to be around.
Many will    begin
to wonder whether
they should talk about
this euthanasia.
Oh, the pressure,
to do what's 'fair '.
And is it good enough
to say that
there will be
the safeguard  of
two doctors,
a cooling off,
and  prayer,
consultation?
Yes, we need
better dying
in today's world.
After all,
we deserve better
than our forefathers.
Or do we?
A better death
can be achieved,
not by
the building of
hospices,
improved palliative care,
more qualified staff,
education of all,
but by the provision of
narcotics to make,
as the song says,
the pain go away.
There is no need
for euthanasia,
for suicide,
for that nudge
that is good for all concerned,
and most of all,
to end the suffering.
Death,
you are the enemy,
no doctor ever should
consider fraternising
with you,
the helping hand
that you require
must come from
either God
or on the other side
from El Diablo.
Only those two
can be exempt
from being
murderers.
A mother scolds her child for doing wrong-
A reason for the child for suicide!
A teacher canes a girl for her love-song:
The latter fell into a well and died!
A father chides his son for marks, so poor:
The son had fallen headlong from a ledge;
An uncle warns his nephew not to err:
The latter tries to end his life with grudge.
What flimsy reasons drive people to die!
Some use a noose or take o’er-dose of pills!
How stupid can such persons try to be!
Is suicide the solution for ills?
Can God forgive such blunders, causing rift?
Our earthly life is precious-most, God’s gift.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-20-2008
Our daughter was lovely and twenty one
White things a portent for hope
But-She took the dark side, not the light side
And left on the end of a rope
She'd given us all sign after sign
We fought till' we could no more
We became resigned and waited it out
Till' she walked through death's door
We had little voice
She made her choice
A lesson: people will do what they will
Riding a mean ocean of grief
Our despair beyond belief
We knuckled down and stayed the course
And tried to move on with our lives
Troughs sticking daggers
Your broken heart staggers
Four or five years at sea
Adrift in the storm
No lighthouse formed
Trying to steer through the fog
Pain to abound
It ran us to ground
And smashed our heads
With it's heels
A horrific force
While running it's course
It flayed us down to the bone
With two ministers pointing
The way up above
We were able to find
Spirit that loved
With welcoming hand
HE gestured to land
And said 'Come, follow me'
Without bell's chime
There followed a time
When dark clouds pulled away
And we coursed out into the light
New lights came on
A new born dawn
We found
A new life that's right
suicide will always be a part of me
no matter how hard I right to forget that part in time
thier is always a little vioce in the back of my mind
saying' u should me dead'
but I kno there is some thing to live for or is there
is suicide the way to slove u problem
mmmm......idk wat do u think of when u heard suicide?
I think about freedom but no love which i want and hold
close to my heart
A man of 19 looks for a quick way to die
He gets on his knees and begins to cry out
The Suicide Angel hears his pleading cries
He knows the man will take his life without a doubt
This angel banished from heaven, not wanted my hell
A patient angel waiting for the next one
Perhaps a mother or father praying to the dark angel
Or perhaps a depressed daughter or a suicidal son
An angel with wings of crimson red
No halo for this fallen son of the most high
His wings stained with blood from the dead
As he poisons his victims hearts with devastating lies
His heart is as black as charcoal
His eyes dark blue as if he was dead
He carries no burden of regret or a sole
His lips as dark as his eyes upon his head
You may wonder who this angel is
If he is real or only in your nightmares
Whether you’ll survive or feel his death kiss
If he is real of is just another legend used to scare
Would you believe me if I told you
Who this angel could really be
Would you call my statement false or true
If I told you this suicide angel is me
Given too freely
this can become ammunition
a weapon used against you
like a suicide bomber
in your soul.
Never given
this can become isolating
as you will only trust yourself
and have nowhere to turn
during the darkest days
which are gauranteed to come.
Once broken
this can very rarely be repaired
to it's original state
of pure and honest sincerity
always having a doubt in the corner
resurfacing it's ugliness
just when you need it the most.
Truly appreciated
this can be the greatest gift
you will ever give
or receive.
Once it's yours cherish it
as you would a treasure
that you may never have again.
Trust is a very delicate creature.
It was just a bomb that took four arms and six legs
From nine perfectly healthy individuals
It was just a bomb that took sixteen lives
And left seventy two people seriously wounded
It was just a bomb that stole the parents
And grandparents and uncles and aunts
Not to mention the children….
All of whose lives had been cut short by years
When a second bomb exploded
As they stood by and weeped in disbelief
The dead and the dying left lying on the charred ground
Of what once had been a busy city street full of life
It was just a bomb
But it took a coward to detonate
2007 © T Sheridan
New phenomena infests this age
Known best as “Suicide by Cop”
Tied to frustrated youth enraged
After seeing violent acts nonstop
ROTMS
I'm thinking of killing myself
and just want to tell someone
my parents never listen
never let me have any fun
I don't have any friends
the kids at school pick on me
with all their little cliques
calling me fat and ugly
operator
yes, yes I understand
it's a story that's often told
can you stay on the line
I need to put you on hold
I'm sorry but I just have to
there's a call I need to answer
a ten year old wants to die
he's been diagnosed with cancer
then there's a woman
who wants to end it all
her ex boyfriend raped her
then broke her jaw
next, I have a couple
who had a son die in Iraq
they no longer want to live
since he's not coming back
oh and did I forget to mention
the others at the end of their rope
seems like the whole world is calling
even, faith, love and hope
Pounding the keys of life;
There's no margin for error.
One mistake is suicide:
A poet's terror.
Be patient just a bit:
I will bleed you pretty words.
I will sing all of my pain
And numb you like the rain.
Die young, save yourself.
There is panic in old age;
A tongue you cannot cage.
Yes, death is all the rage.
I cut the wrist of my left hand
Drupping, dripping,
Dieing, sitting here crying
Sighing, listening to your
Lying
Do I even care?
Do I dare to stare into?
The eyes of darkness open
My heart to the sharpness
Of my heart, my life
Is at steak
Writing suicide notes
In my head, wishing I didn’t
Say what I said
Committing suicide
In my head
I knew a simple soldier boy
Who grinned at life in empty joy,
Slept soundly through the lonesome dark,
And whistled early with the lark.
In winter trenches, cowed and glum,
With crumps and lice and lack of rum,
He put a bullet through his brain.
No one spoke of him again.
You smug-faced crowds with kindling eye
Who cheer when soldier lads march by,
Sneak home and pray you'll never know
The hell where youth and laughter go.
Imagine standing at the edge
No more reasons of anything in life to pledge
Looking down as the wind bleeds your eyes dry
When you fall you have seconds to say goodbye to the sky
Adrenaline causes the mind an instant rush
Anticipating freedom until you become crushed
Now a coward alive would say this man was weak
Yet this man in life couldn't imagine thinking deep
Instead of jumping for problems, you take a jump for power
I'll live more in 10 seconds than you do in a million hours
So as your standing at the edge giving life your last salute
Remember your brave, realize most wouldn't jump even with a parachute
Most would run as they saw death screaming 1000 feet down
A brave man would dig is own corpse into the ground
So as you read about another suicide statistic being
He did it because of strength, something your not seeing
When life screeches to an end and you want to be saved
This 'coward' was brave, this soul was brave
Suicide is now my only hope.
My only hope to be free.
To get away from the shit in my life.
Surly I'll be free this way.
I have to leave this world
Leave it all behind.
Mabey Im a coward
Or mabey not.
I never did have a say
What happened to me in my life.
Never got justice
Or even the chance to say no.
Well I guess I have controll now
Over my life and over my death.
Things left undone
Things left unsaid
Must stay this way.
My family wont miss me
If I think about it
The only person who loved me is dead.
The only thing on this earth
That I'll miss are my animals
Its the only thing on this earth that loved me.
Guess none of those things matter now.
As here I lie death entering in.
I should of known this would be my only way
with nothing left
everyday i wake up hoping to die
i show not a sign
but the pain in my eyes
ridiculed in my plain disguise
of what i really am
and of what i dispise
i wreak everything
i ever touch
i cant do that anymore
its all to much
i wanna slit my wrist
and let the pain bleed away
to feel the cold numbness
of death on its way
most would say thats suicide
i call it poetry in motin
poetry with out words
no pen or parer
but like a play of the writen words
acting it out
suicide is poetry
i have no doubt
As she read the note aloud
Her voice clear and loud
'This is what she wrote
Her suicide note'
There were gasps all through the air
For everyone seemed to care
They said she was so great
But their compliments were too late
Her note read like this
'Nothing in my life is bliss
And no one sees the tears I cry
You will only care once i die
Perfection was only a minor concern
Love is what I yearn
This pain you say you now feel
Is probably not even real
As you sit there and moap or gloat
What you just read was my suicide note'
No words were spoken
No silence broken
No child whined
And no one shined
They were all put down to dirt
To see how much she hurt
This was her master plan
To hurt the common man
To feel the way she did
Little baby suicide kid
This is you...
You're causing me to bleed.
And you have no apologies
For whom you inflict fear into.
Seeing what isn't here.
I'm begging you to leave.
Can't you see I'm on my knees?
I've tried and tried so many times.
But you're still here...
Making me bleed...
All over the linoleum...
Thank God it's easy to clean.
Take this pain away from me
'Cause this Novacaine
Doesn't work worth a damn.
And I'm just wasting my time
On my suicide lullaby...
I walk towards the light
As your soul replaces mine.
I reach out to feel
But then it all disappears again.
Just another figment
Of my wild imagination.
I guess I need those pills again.
It's time to fulfill my addiction.
Take this pain away from me
'Cause this Novacaine
Doesn't work worth a damn.
And I'm just wasting my time
On my suicide lullaby...
I try to stop the voices
From telling me what to do
In every situation.
But they are persistant.
And they can't hear my screams...
They don't hear my screams anymore...
Take this pain away from me
'Cause this Novacaine
Doesn't work worth a damn.
And I'm just wasting my time
On my suicide lullaby...
And I'm committed to this crime...
With my suicide lullaby...
A suicide note is the hardest to wright
looking around to see if there is any one in sight
you know you have planed this, now for many days
because of the pain, real in so many ways.
Youre ready for this, right here and right now
you want to die but dont know how
what will they say
knowing you died this way
with youre own two hands
death is all youre mind demands.
At the very last moment there could ever be
You look in the mirror and all you could see
was the look and her face as the tears rolled down
staring at you with that penetrating frown
What should you do, now thats shes seen
how her sister will die only as a teen.
She asks you to stop
she treghtens to call a cop
She cant bear the thought of living alone
having no one to talk to over the phone
the tears keep flowing
as her voice keeps going
praying out loud
there is now a huge croud
in front of you
theres nothing to do.
You turn around and hug her
because between life and death living with her is now what you prefer.
I think I should have wrote,
a little suicide note.
In case I decide to end it all,
I wouldnt have to make a call.
It might be under the moon or sun,
maybe by hanging or gun.
It may be during the day or night,
I didnt know which was right.
No one will find me,
I dont want anyone to see,
what I have done,
under the disappearing sun.
I had to get those thoughts out of my head,
even if it means being dead.
Even if my life wasnt that bad,
its my head that was making me sad.
I was sick of trying to strive,
struggling with myself to stay alive.
I felt like I wasnt worth a thing,
I pretended to be happy and sing.
I wish this was a lie,
but truly I wished to die.
No one knew I felt this way,
because I refused to say.
Never again will I see the sun,
truly sorry if I hurt anyone.
I couldnt deal with it like a man,
so I decided to go with the suicide plan.
should my heart stop beating
i want you to know
i love you all
and just can't let go
it's pushing me down
the things that i see
my mind should be free
im trapped with no hope
i don't know how i cope
you know why i write this letter
we all know it isn't gonna get better
day by day
i have to say
my last goodbye
this is no lie
tomorrow its will be done
don't try to run
face the truth with staring eyes
because now i've said my last goodbyes
tomorrow i end the pain
it is the end of the lane
goodbye my dear
Thoughts of suicide rush my head
Nobody knows when I’m here or there
A few slits of the wrist and ill soon be dead
Whatever I do, no one will care
I have no life
The little I have I live in strife
No one to miss me
No one to care
No one to love me
No love to share
I just wish I could burn
And still no ones concerned
Nothing but death on my mind
That’s all there ever seems to be
Can’t I find some one kind?
Someone to help me
Can’t someone let me out?
It just always makes me want to shout
Maybe they think I am a waste of time
That I’m just a hopeless cause
To cheer me up, I’ve found nothing sublime
Its all flashing by so fast, I need to hit pause
My chance at a life is lost
I must end this now, at all costs
My time here is gone today
Wasted and tragic
Just lost and blown away
To fix this could only be magic
My life here has been a waste
To help me would be in awful taste
I feel alone
This world is cruel
Emotionless as stone
Am I just God’s tool?
Satan is left as my only friend
My soul is free for him to rend
My eyes have cried
a million times,
now as dry
as dessert sand.
My heart has sank
with no strength to rise
from the well
that once held hope.
My mind is defeated,
The winner depression,
Head in hands
the battle has been won.
I've given up
my body's tired,
Here please, your prize,
my final breath.
Please accept it
it's all I have,
I'm poor
in every sense.
Release me
have I not fought well?
I beg of you
RELEASE ME! ?
P.S.
For those of you who read this note,
Please do not shed a tear,
My life was done that's all she wrote,
You all knew the end was near.
I love you and I always will,
This is nothing to do with you,
I know how it will make you feel
But it's best my life is through.
This pain is now too much to bare,
I feel my heart has been ripped out,
I'm sorry that I could not share
With you my final bout.
But alas I must bid you good bye
Before my courage fails,
Farewell my friends, tis my last cry,
I release me from this jail!
I write my suicide note
So I can be kissed by a butterfly
I can live tonight
But I choose to die
I'm crying on the inside
And bleeding on the outside
I show my pain, blood, and tears
I don't want them to hide
Tears fall from my cuts
As blood drips from my eyes
I see them now
The kissing butterflies
This is my note
For after I die
Goodbye life
Hello butterfly
They didn’t understand.
They were all Americans now.
He would smile sometimes,
thinking about his youth in Ponce,
Carmen, Rosa, Teresa & Liza.
Holding on to dreams
that helped him stay alive.
The tropical music that was killed
by the new sound of “salsa.”
But they didn’t understand,
his children didn’t understand.
A million times his body was raped
by the unfriendly cold.
The farm he sacrificed
to pursue the American Dream,
trying to buy some dignity in the trade
of the unemployment office,
shoveling the snow that invaded
his tropical existence.
He would walk up Virginia Street
and down Hudson Street,
searching
for some clues of understanding,
but
only
found
new inventions of nightmares
that wanted to destroy his dreams.
The dead dreams
that helped him stay alive
were too weak
for the American nightmare.
They didn’t understand.
They were
all Americans now.
This is all I can say
about the suicide,
the attempt
to end my wretched life.
Sad, lonely, desperate, tired,
Each week I trek,
two cities,
one holds all I cherish,
other
speaks a different tongue.
They ignore me
standing at the bar.
I do not understand,
they do not hear my tale,
I have another drink.
The glass that soothes
my troubled brow,
I drink some more.
I drink, I think and
wonder what to do.
I hate this place that
gives me bread but
has no love to give,
I long for end of week
to journey back.
So I drink and think
of other town,
of precious girl
I love, and I want to
give my name.
No money, to far apart,
still married,
children
gone to other land
that’s far away.
I have another drink,
I drink the night away.
Mind now muddled,
Feet unsteady,
I stagger to my bed.
Night after night,
the same routine.
Drink, sad, lonely
drink some more,
till Friday comes.
One weekend
happy but not happy,
decide to steal an
extra night, before I
do the trek I hate
Morning comes
I must return to
town that hurts,
that stabs me in
the heart.
Separation, desperation
rules my mind,
a sadness overcomes,
my heart low
my spirits gone.
I have no go,
no desire, no wish
to be, here or there.
I just do not
want to be.
On road I find a bar,
a few drinks
is what I need,
to make things clear,
to see me on my way.
I do not return
to town that hurts,
that sees me low,
just two drinks and
I return to empty flat.
Fifty small black pills,
ten white pills,
I gulp down,
I do not want to wake
to feel more pain.
Lie down upon the bed,
I’m quiet now,
my mind has stopped.
A peace has comes to
rescue me, from pain.
Asleep now,
rest has come at last.
Long time coming,
trek here, trek there
how I hated it.
I was scared, guilty,
lonely, so unhappy.
I’m alright now
my mind has stopped
the silence soothes.
Goodnight world.
Next morning I awake
a chastened man,
many questions
asked.
Alcohol spurned I grew
I began to change.
Married precious girl
who saved my life.
Happiness came.
.
please let me die
im so tired.
i hate it here
i want to die.
he dosen't love me.
he loves noone.
he makes my heart cry.
i want  to commit suicide,
but i can't decide how
a guns so messy.
but my wrist im used to.
i want to watch my blood spill on the floor.
as i feel the life leaving my body.
i feel the urge strenghtining
i now must say
goodbye
I'll meet you at two
Just like we always do
When all conversation is done
I'll watch you disappear into the setting sun
Then take the pen in my hand
Set the paper in the sand
Write out all there is to say
And hope you never feel this way
I'll walk over to the tree
Wondering if I'm ready
Reach into my pocket, the last moments of my life,
And pull out a knife
I'll press the knife to my skin
Releasing all the pain within
My soul will float up into the sky
Knowing that I had to die.
suicide will be the cause of my demise.
death is my decision,
because life is my affliction.
and i when they're hurt, i won't appologize...
i close the casket upon myself.
and i dig my own grave
no one can save my cold damned soul.
our worthless god won't take me, my fate is in my control...
Suicide is the answer
To many questions asked.
It hides inside of you
But it will be unmasked.
It knows it has power
Over many girls and boys.
It treats people as
If we were little toys.
So will you listen to suicide
And one day take your life?
Think hard before you
Decide to pick up the knife.
Hang me from my sins,
Drown me in my guilt,
Swimming in a pool of blood,
From this pain I have built.
I’m caught in a trap,
A trap I cannot escape,
Its time for me to give up,
And give in to my pain.
I try to hide away,
I live alone at night,
I never want to be afraid,
of this world of life.
There eyes look at me,
They hate me so much,
No matter how hard I try,
I’ll always give up.
Slit my throat,
Slit my arms,
Stab that knife in both of my palms,
Get me out I want to go,
The pain in my eyes never seems to show,
Mom and Dad just don’t see, what she really meant to me,
My love for her will always be,
As the blood pours away from my lifeless heart,
I think of her name and carve it deep, a work of art,
I lie there and numb the pain,
My love for her is driving me insane…
Suicide...
You have tempted me
With the gift to die
Oh my ultimate
but not very tragic
Suicide...
Oh, am i the only fool in here
It can't be
There has to be a million more
Just like me
I think I'm a duplicate
Not very unique
Just one,
In a box of freaks
Suicide...
Leave me alone
The more you tempt me
The more I'm prone
Suicide is on my mind all the time
how can I get rid of of it
no one can help me now not even god
Im unsaveable
I can see the end of my road
will i die plz help me decide
nothin helps, the coke the drinking the pills it just makes
things worst
Im stuck between realtiy and fansaty
fading in and out all the time
not knowing who to trust and wat the true behind the lie
reading and re-reading suicide poems
the reach say ppl who treat to commictt suicide end up doing it
and to ask myself who would cry I bet no one  cuz
I love no one cuz no one loves me
well my family would cuz there family they have to
unless the hate me to
I would leave and note to say goodbye and to say
now did I open ur eyes
Suicide is my thought of dying,
Crawling out of hole I made,
Suicide is my only way out of my pain I feel,
Explain why I can’t kill or hurt myself,
This is priceless for every suicidal thoughts,
The thoughts that runs through my head,
The things you have said,
The way you racquet me,
The way you make fun of me,
This is why I want to die,
Suicide is my only way out,
The way out of the pain you have caused me see.
Twas the hour before my suicide
Sitting in my room holding a knife
Thinking of family and friends
Contemplating my life
I thought of hanging
But as the knife came closer to my throat
I knew it was quicker
I quickly wrote my farewell note
Nothing was or went right
Anything that could go wrong did
I am often depressed
People treat me like alittle kid
This maybe easy way out
But I don't care
Does anybody love me? I don't know
People seem to hate me everywhere
Suicide
I hate all of you
i want to die
i hate everything
die, die, die
suicide has a grip on me
goodbye
I contemplate this thought,
A thought of giving up,
A thought of suicide,
I take a knife,
And plunge it deep,
And feel of suicide,
I swallow the pills,
And got to sleep,
And dream of suicide,
I take a gun,
And pull the trigger,
And commit suicide.
my days are dreary, dark, and grey
i want to scream,
im being surrounded by all the people
they're calling me names like freak, and emo
they call me emo all because,
they saw my wrists, it was enough
to make them judge
all because im different,
i didn't want to fit in.
they judge me by what they see
they don't know enough to see
whats inside is what really matters
whats behind this upside down smile
a girl screaming, drowning in tears
because the peoples judgements
were her worst fears.
now its over i go home and get in trouble
im late and sent to my room
they all assume im safe, up in my room,
but they walk in it's permanantly over
im on the floor, my arms are covered
in blood of red,
im dead forever!
Suicide isn't fun,
so don't try it.
Suicide isn't quick,
it's long and painful.
Suicde never used to be me,
but now it is.
Suicide was never calming,
always away to have so much pain it didn't hurt anymore.
Suicide has to be a blade,
so don't get pricked.
Suicide is apart of love,
so don't love the wrong people.
Suicide and death are close,
so don't flirt with them.
Suicide never tells the the truth,
always belive the opposite.
Suicide kills slowly,
keep that in mind.
Suicide will always be here,
so get used to it.
Suicide takes over,
don't let it.
Suicide will eventually bite you,
bite back harder.
Suicide will never die,
you will but it won't be to it.
Suicide works well with your wrist,
so don't let it.
Suicide is always there you just can't see it,
so open your eyes.
i'm going to run away
i'm leaving this world
for all it has never done
i'm leaving this world
for all it never did
never seemed to care
never showed me love
never showed me joy
never gave me hope
i'm leaving this world
all it gave is pain
and regret
it let me make mistakes
like any normal person
yet i'd go home
and it would throw a knife
straight to my heart
i'm leaving this world
for all it never did
never seemed to care
never showed me love
never showed me joy
never gave me hope
i'm leaving this world
all it gave was pain
all it gave was hate
all it gave was death
i won't be here tomorrow
i won't make it another day
i can't take this pain
i'm tired of feeling numb
the feeling of no feeling
i'm tired of the pain
i long for that feeling
the trusting
the love
the joy
the hope
but no it takes it away
locked inside a box
must keep it away
i'm leaving this world
for all it never did
and all it never gave
Yesterday I tried to commit suicide..
The good news is..I didnt succeed..
You dont know how much I tried..
And cut just to watch my arm bleed..
That night I really wanted to die..
I even went looking for pills..
As much as I tried I just couldnt cry..
Just something I couldnt feel..
Its never as hard as it looks..
You have  to trust and  believe me..
Cutting can get you hooked..
And left with the feeling of uncertainty..
Or at least thats what happens to me..
I try so hard to die and dont succeed..
i  sit here thinking about suicide
everyday i try to talk to my friends
about it i try to make it go away
but it haunts my mind like a ghost
haunts a house my friends try to get
my mind off of it works but then it
comes right back like pain i sit here
with a razor in my hand im thinking
about if i should do it my friend wat
do you say to me about me killing
myself uh wat do you say?
I need pain
a knife against my wrist
is not enough
well it's pain,
but i need stronger pain
Pain that will make me scream
I need to see blood
to smell and taste it
I need the feeling of my blood
draining from my veins
I grab a knife and in a moment
all around me
my blood is flowing
I see flashing lights
hear shouts and screams
but I am afraid
they are to late
They rush me to the hospital
but there is nothing they can do
the cut on my neck is to deep
they cannot save me
My parents are planning my funeral
their actions slow and sad
my sister is crying along with my friends
they did not expect it
I showed no signs
at my funeral people are crying all around me
but now it is time for my sister to speak
the first thing she says is
'I can't believe she was suicidal................'
I could
take that handful of pills
because honestly
i'm sick of waking up
every morning to ask myself
the same damn questions
I would
slide that blade
across my wrist
because i hate the person
i have become.
I have
daydreams of when
that day will come
where i won't think
I am
scared of myself
I don't want to be
just another line
in a newspaper
I want
for my life
to mean something.
A person can only take so much,
In my hand, A knife I clutch,
I want to take my life away,
And tell how worthless I am, To say,
I have a frown upon my face,
I want to run away from this place,
And end my life, I want to die,
My head upon my hands, I cry,
To comfort me, It will not work,
Away from the world, I want to jerk,
The one's who love me, Try to make it better,
Forever unknowing, Of that one short letter,
The letter I wrote before I died,
The letter I wrote, of Suicide.
Suicide is deadly,
so don't flirt with it
Suicide is sneaky,
so be careful
Suicide and death are closely related,
so be careful which one you chose
Suicidemay help you,
but destroy others
Suicide can kill
but not as bad as the lies
Suicide is my best friend
that I can no longer hide
Suicide goes good with the blade,
and the blade goes with my wrist
Suicide helped me
it helped me die
i look at myself in the mirror wondering.
wondering what happend to the girl i used to be.
wondering why there are scars on my wrist.
why i did this to myself.
then i think back to when my whole world was crashing down.
i seem to realize that these scars are suicide scars.
i start to cry to the fact that i will have these scars for a life time.
i grab my razor put it up to my wrist.
and i start to cut.
i start to cut them suicide cuts all over again.
i cant stop.
but i guess that this will be me forever.
makeing them ugly suicide scars.
SIDS babies are the smart ones, they exit early
Adolescents step between cars for a quick out,
or drown in a neighbor’s pool
Teens have the most options with drugs, alcohol,
Anorexia, fast cars and access to guns
Middle-years get to pick from hundreds of prescription drugs, breast/ovarian/prostate cancers or a plethora other diseases
Elders get to have strokes, heart attacks, diabetes and the like
Suicide slow or fast…
No matter, as Death has great patience
Maybe I can stab myself?
No, hurts to much.
Maybe I can shoot myself?
No, don't have a gun.
Maybe I can drown myself?
No, to easy to be revived.
Maybe I can jump?
No, don't want to be paralyzed.
Maybe I can overdose?
Yes, there are plenty of pills in the world and is almost virtually painless if it works.
Suicide is not easy but if you really want to die, you will brave the instant pain just for eternal pain relief.
Suicide, suicide wishing I were dead.
Suicide, suicide deep in my head.
Suicide, suicide cutting my wrists.
Suicide, suicide I'm so done with this.
2 days,2 days let until I die.
2 days,2 days til the last tear I'll cry.
2 days,2 days until I am all gone.
2 days,2 days til the dark breaks the dawn.
Suicide, suicide deep inside my head.
Suicide, suicide now I'm alomst dead.
Suicide, suicide turn out the light.
Suicide, suicide good bye, good night.
I aim the gun
Its against my head
One right move
And I'll be dead
Because my only wish
Will never come true
It's not much
All I want is you
But you're so far away
You're not coming back
This pain is too much
Like an aerial attack
Unsuspected
Unprepared
Almost like
Noone cared
So suicide, suicide
My new best friend
Suicide, suicide
My final end
Suicide, suicide
You saved me
Suicide, suicide
I'm finally free
Suicide, suicide wishing I were dead,
Suicide, suicide deep in my head,
Suicide, suicide cutting my wrists,
Suicide, suicide I am so done with this.
Two days, two days let until I die,
Two days, two day till the last tear I'll cry,
Two days, two days until I am all gone,
Two days, two days till the dark breaks the dawn.
Suicide, suicide deep inside my head,
Suicide, suicide now I am almost dead,
Suicide, suicide turn out the lights,
Suicide, uicide goodbye and goodnight.
Suicide is wishing I were dead
suicide is deep in my head,
suicide thoughts are cutting my wrists burning my ankles,
suicide my last tear dry, suicide.
I’m so done with this days I cry,
last tear dry suicide, suicide, suicide,
deep in my head suicide is because of my voices in my head,
suicide is the blur I see, suicide, is a feeling of someone there,
suicide suicide suicide,
now I’m almost dead turn out the lights and say goodnight
Jessica Lee Workman
Suicide sweet suicide, I yearn to be near,
Yearn to be with you, but I dont out of fear,
Suicide sweet suicide, always on my mind,
Body cold and stiff, now my pain I've left behind,
Oh sweet suicide, please take me away,
R.I.P. to me, too bad I couldn't stay,
But the hurt was too much, tears I always weep,
Blade drags across my skin, this time I'm cutting deep,
Deep, deep, deeper....deeper, than ever before,
Oh sweet suicide, don't make me suffer anymore,
Suicide sweet suicide, I'm escaping all of the harm,
And giving myself to you, so please accept me with open arms,
All these things going through my head
Cannot understand
Whats being said
Cannot understand
What im going through
Its not like you care
I mean nothing to you
This world is my sworn enemy
It and its people
Cannot stand the sight of me
I try the cherish the memories
Of the good times
Which I rarely had
Nothing else comes to mind
It makes me go mad
So I walk upon my shallow floor
Write on the wall
I Cant Take No More!
So I’ll see the light once and for all
Maybe things get better
When my brains are scattered
Upon the wall
Death is cold
Death is above
But sometimes
Death is love.
Blood glistens
Like the morning dew
Blood comes out
Because of you.
Razors shine
In the pure white light,
Razors sharp
Perfect for flight.
Fallen Angel cuts
Fallen Angel bleeds
She stands alone
He's all she needs.
Fallen Angel screams
Fallen Angel cries
She can fly no more
So instead, she dies.
I can't be what everyone wants me to be.
Everything I do is just another mistake.
Ican't make anyone happy or proud.
I only make them mad and dissappointed.
I understand that everyone hates me.
I understand no one will cry.
I know im not loved.
I don't know how to love.
And now I never will.
I just wish..................
"Curse thee, Life, I will live with thee no more!
Thou hast mocked me, starved me, beat my body sore!
And all for a pledge that was not pledged by me,
I have kissed thy crust and eaten sparingly
That I might eat again, and met thy sneers
With deprecations, and thy blows with tears,—
Aye, from thy glutted lash, glad, crawled away,
As if spent passion were a holiday!
And now I go. Nor threat, nor easy vow
Of tardy kindness can avail thee now
With me, whence fear and faith alike are flown;
Lonely I came, and I depart alone,
And know not where nor unto whom I go;
But that thou canst not follow me I know."
Thus I to Life, and ceased; but through my brain
My thought ran still, until I spake again:
"Ah, but I go not as I came,—no trace
Is mine to bear away of that old grace
I brought! I have been heated in thy fires,
Bent by thy hands, fashioned to thy desires,
Thy mark is on me! I am not the same
Nor ever more shall be, as when I came.
Ashes am I of all that once I seemed.
In me all's sunk that leapt, and all that dreamed
Is wakeful for alarm,—oh, shame to thee,
For the ill change that thou hast wrought in me,
Who laugh no more nor lift my throat to sing
Ah, Life, I would have been a pleasant thing
To have about the house when I was grown
If thou hadst left my little joys alone!
I asked of thee no favor save this one:
That thou wouldst leave me playing in the sun!
And this thou didst deny, calling my name
Insistently, until I rose and came.
I saw the sun no more.—It were not well
So long on these unpleasant thoughts to dwell,
Need I arise to-morrow and renew
Again my hated tasks, but I am through
With all things save my thoughts and this one night,
So that in truth I seem already quite
Free,and remote from thee,—I feel no haste
And no reluctance to depart; I taste
Merely, with thoughtful mien, an unknown draught,
That in a little while I shall have quaffed."
Thus I to Life, and ceased, and slightly smiled,
Looking at nothing; and my thin dreams filed
Before me one by one till once again
I set new words unto an old refrain:
"Treasures thou hast that never have been mine!
Warm lights in many a secret chamber shine
Of thy gaunt house, and gusts of song have blown
Like blossoms out to me that sat alone!
And I have waited well for thee to show
If any share were mine,—and now I go
Nothing I leave, and if I naught attain
I shall but come into mine own again!"
Thus I to Life, and ceased, and spake no more,
But turning, straightway, sought a certain door
In the rear wall. Heavy it was, and low
And dark,—a way by which none e'er would go
That other exit had, and never knock
Was heard thereat,—bearing a curious lock
Some chance had shown me fashioned faultily,
Whereof Life held content the useless key,
And great coarse hinges, thick and rough with rust,
Whose sudden voice across a silence must,
I knew, be harsh and horrible to hear,—
A strange door, ugly like a dwarf.—So near
I came I felt upon my feet the chill
Of acid wind creeping across the sill.
So stood longtime, till over me at last
Came weariness, and all things other passed
To make it room; the still night drifted deep
Like snow about me, and I longed for sleep.
But, suddenly, marking the morning hour,
Bayed the deep-throated bell within the tower!
Startled, I raised my head,—and with a shout
Laid hold upon the latch,—and was without.
* * * *
Ah, long-forgotten, well-remembered road,
Leading me back unto my old abode,
My father's house! There in the night I came,
And found them feasting, and all things the same
As they had been before. A splendour hung
Upon the walls, and such sweet songs were sung
As, echoing out of very long ago,
Had called me from the house of Life, I know.
So fair their raiment shone I looked in shame
On the unlovely garb in which I came;
Then straightway at my hesitancy mocked:
"It is my father's house!" I said and knocked;
And the door opened. To the shining crowd
Tattered and dark I entered, like a cloud,
Seeing no face but his; to him I crept,
And "Father!" I cried, and clasped his knees, and wept.
* * * *
Ah, days of joy that followed! All alone
I wandered through the house. My own, my own,
My own to touch, my own to taste and smell,
All I had lacked so long and loved so well!
None shook me out of sleep, nor hushed my song,
Nor called me in from the sunlight all day long.
I know not when the wonder came to me
Of what my father's business might be,
And whither fared and on what errands bent
The tall and gracious messengers he sent.
Yet one day with no song from dawn till night
Wondering, I sat, and watched them out of sight.
And the next day I called; and on the third
Asked them if I might go,—but no one heard.
Then, sick with longing, I arose at last
And went unto my father,—in that vast
Chamber wherein he for so many years
Has sat, surrounded by his charts and spheres.
"Father," I said, "Father, I cannot play
The harp that thou didst give me, and all day
I sit in idleness, while to and fro
About me thy serene, grave servants go;
And I am weary of my lonely ease.
Better a perilous journey overseas
Away from thee, than this, the life I lead,
To sit all day in the sunshine like a weed
That grows to naught,—I love thee more than they
Who serve thee most; yet serve thee in no way.
Father, I beg of thee a little task
To dignify my days,—'tis all I ask
Forever, but forever, this denied,
I perish."
"Child," my father's voice replied,
"All things thy fancy hath desired of me
Thou hast received. I have prepared for thee
Within my house a spacious chamber, where
Are delicate things to handle and to wear,
And all these things are thine. Dost thou love song?
My minstrels shall attend thee all day long.
Or sigh for flowers? My fairest gardens stand
Open as fields to thee on every hand.
And all thy days this word shall hold the same:
No pleasure shalt thou lack that thou shalt name.
But as for tasks—" he smiled, and shook his head;
"Thou hadst thy task, and laidst it by," he said.
And this, ladies and gentlemen, whom I am not in fact
Conducting, was his office all those minutes ago,
This man you never heard of. These are the bills
In the intray, the ash in the ashtray, the grey memoranda stacked
Against him, the serried ranks of the box-files, the packed
Jury of his unanswered correspondence
Nodding under the paperweight in the breeze
From the window by which he left; and here is the cracked
Receiver that never got mended and here is the jotter
With his last doodle which might be his own digestive tract
Ulcer and all or might be the flowery maze
Through which he had wandered deliciously till he stumbled
Suddenly finally conscious of all he lacked
On a manhole under the hollyhocks. The pencil
Point had obviously broken, yet, when he left this room
By catdrop sleight-of-foot or simple vanishing act,
To those who knew him for all that mess in the street
This man with the shy smile has left behind
Something that was intact.
Thoughts of suicide grow
Why do i think like this?
Why cant i live in harmoney?
Why cant i live in bliss?
Suicide is like a virus
It devoured all that was pure
Why did i hold that knife to my chest?
Why cant i find a cure?
Thoughts of suicide overwhelm me
One pill, two, three pill, four
Only 8 more to go now
Come on im nearly through that door.
Suicide has taken my voice
So no one can hear my pain
But even if i could scream at the top of my lungs
Would it be invane?
No one wants to listen
No one even cares
My feet are over the edge now
I will glide right through the air.
If my thoughts become reality
Would i be missed
Or would i be cast off as another number
With my name added to a list.
My thoughts of suicide stay with me
One day i may be free
Is suicide my only option
well tomorrow is a new day,
I shall wait and see.
In this park i used to dwell,
met a guy i loved so well,
there he stole my heart from me,
and now i have to set it free,
sat another girl on his knee,
and told her things he never told me...
Mum came home late that night,
started searching left to right,
through my bedroom door she broke,
found me hanging from a rope...
grabbed a knife and cut me down,
on the floor a note was found,
Mum: Dig my grave,
dig it deep,
marble stone,
from head to feet,
and on the top,
please place a dove,
and tell the world,
i died for love....
i have been chained to anchors
i have been tortured in my mind
i have been gaged and stopped from talking
i have been forced to stop believing
the world has strange ways
of expressing how we feel
in some ways it is joyul peace
in others it is cerebrale death
verbal suicide
is all we have
just give up
and take the final hand
as it reaches down
grab with all your might
silence is not agreement
it just starts the fight
Thick black lines with heavens
embrace
It's hard to tell its hell I
face
Condemed to die a sinners
love
A conceiled tear from someone
above
One slice of anger out flew
fear
Secretly killing the one held so
near
Last white linen covered the
stain
But couldn't mask this child's hidden
pain
Why commit suicide?
Don’t tie yourself with a rope
With life, there is always hope
With life, there is always scope
Why commit suicide?
For you there is no roller coaster life ride
Your heart is filled with an empty hole so wide
Don’t put yourself on fire and fry
With life, you can still make an effort and try
Please leave us not with a permanent goodbye
Why commit suicide?
Believe me when I say ‘You are not alone’
Many out there are shivering cold to the bone
Express your feelings to someone on the phone
Full of debt
Never properly slept
Always sadly wept
Wish you had something wonderful
You could have treasured and kept
Unsucessfuly with exams
After hectic midnight crams
Who gives a damn!
You are not alone!
You are not alone!
So you feel so empty inside
You are full of egoistical pride
To admit the thought of a suicide tide
Love has never even been on your side
Believe me when I say ‘You are not alone’
With life, there is no stone
That you cannot eventually overthrow
To reclaim your rightful throne
So why commit suicide?
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
he never loved you
but, thats quite okay
pretty soon, you'll
end your life anyway
no one's ever loved you
and no one really cares
your heart's already shattered
does it hurt as your soul tears
keep putting on your makeup
you'll never have a pretty face
your veins are opened up
your just a f***ing waste
You'll comit my suicide
You'll push me untill i die
You'll steal the air i breeth
And use it for your own
You'll strangle and choke me
Just for both our peace
You'll comit my sucide
You'll push me until i die
You'll personally take me to my grave
Just you watch as i fade
You may say we're blood
But the thought just makes my blood boil
Oh we are such wonderful friends
I think i'm gonna be sick
You'll comit my suicide
You'll push me untill i die
Just watch as i
Fade away
You steal my breath
And stop my heart
And destroy my little everything
You'll comit my suicide
May 2006
Sorry about spelling.
What do you have to say
On this day
In the month of April and May
Everybody is gay
This is the summer time
When people go to the beaches
They have juice made of lime
And fruits like mangoes and peaches
Many people like to stay indoors
And try their best to keep cool
Just staying inside really bores
So they want to have a dip in the pool
These are times of holidays
When we play and run
Some people show off the beauty of their face
At summer we have a lot of fun
Open the window, and let the air
Freshly blow upon face and hair,
And fill the room, as it fills the night,
With the breath of the rain's sweet might.
Hark! the burthen, swift and prone!
And how the odorous limes are blown!
Stormy Love's abroad, and keeps
Hopeful coil for gentle sleeps.
Not a blink shall burn to-night
In my chamber, of sordid light;
Nought will I have, not a window-pane,
'Twixt me and the air and the great good rain,
Which ever shall sing me sharp lullabies;
And God's own darkness shall close mine eyes;
And I will sleep, with all things blest,
In the pure earth-shadow of natural rest.
(IN THE BEGINNING)
The sun is a huntress young,
The sun is a red, red joy,
The sun is an indian girl,
Of the tribe of the Illinois.
(MID-MORNING)
The sun is a smouldering fire,
That creeps through the high gray plain,
And leaves not a bush of cloud
To blossom with flowers of rain.
(NOON)
The sun is a wounded deer,
That treads pale grass in the skies,
Shaking his golden horns,
Flashing his baleful eyes.
(SUNSET)
The sun is an eagle old,
There in the windless west.
Atop of the spirit-cliffs
He builds him a crimson nest.
981
As Sleigh Bells seem in summer
Or Bees, at Christmas show—
So fairy—so fictitious
The individuals do
Repealed from observation—
A Party that we knew—
More distant in an instant
Than Dawn in Timbuctoo.
A languid atmosphere, a lazy breeze,
With labored respiration, moves the wheat
From distant reaches, till the golden seas
Break in crisp whispers at my feet.
My book, neglected of an idle mind,
Hides for a moment from the eyes of men;
Or lightly opened by a critic wind,
Affrightedly reviews itself again.
Off through the haze that dances in the shine
The warm sun showers in the open glade,
The forest lies, a silhouette design
Dimmed through and through with shade.
A dreamy day; and tranquilly I lie
At anchor from all storms of mental strain;
With absent vision, gazing at the sky,
"Like one that hears it rain."
The Katydid, so boisterous last night,
Clinging, inverted, in uneasy poise,
Beneath a wheat-blade, has forgotten quite
If "Katy DID or DIDN'T" make a noise.
The twitter, sometimes, of a wayward bird
That checks the song abruptly at the sound,
And mildly, chiding echoes that have stirred,
Sink into silence, all the more profound.
And drowsily I hear the plaintive strain
Of some poor dove . . . Why, I can scarcely keep
My heavy eyelids--there it is again--
"Coo-coo!"--I mustn't--"Coo-coo!"--fall asleep!
I
The dawn laughs out on orient hills
And dances with the diamond rills;
The ambrosial wind but faintly stirs
The silken, beaded gossamers;
In the wide valleys, lone and fair,
Lyrics are piped from limpid air,
And, far above, the pine trees free
Voice ancient lore of sky and sea.
Come, let us fill our hearts straightway
With hope and courage of the day.
II
Noon, hiving sweets of sun and flower,
Has fallen on dreams in wayside bower,
Where bees hold honeyed fellowship
With the ripe blossom of her lip;
All silent are her poppied vales
And all her long Arcadian dales,
Where idleness is gathered up
A magic draught in summer's cup.
Come, let us give ourselves to dreams
By lisping margins of her streams.
III
Adown the golden sunset way
The evening comes in wimple gray;
By burnished shore and silver lake
Cool winds of ministration wake;
O'er occidental meadows far
There shines the light of moon and star,
And sweet, low-tinkling music rings
About the lips of haunted springs.
In quietude of earth and air
'Tis meet we yield our souls to prayer.
THE wind has swept from the wide atmosphere
Each vapour that obscured the sunset's ray,
And pallid Evening twines its beaming hair
In duskier braids around the languid eyes of Day:
Silence and Twilight, unbeloved of men,
Creep hand in hand from yon obscurest glen.
They breathe their spells towards the departing day,
Encompassing the earth, air, stars, and sea;
Light, sound, and motion, own the potent sway,
Responding to the charm with its own mystery.
The winds are still, or the dry church-tower grass
Knows not their gentle motions as they pass.
Thou too, aerial pile, whose pinnacles
Point from one shrine like pyramids of fire,
Obey'st I in silence their sweet solemn spells,
Clothing in hues of heaven thy dim and distant spire,
Around whose lessening and invisible height
Gather among the stars the clouds of night.
The dead are sleeping in their sepulchres:
And, mouldering as they sleep, a thrilling sound,
Half sense half thought, among the darkness stirs,
Breathed from their wormy beds all living things around,
And, mingling with the still night and mute sky,
Its awful hush is felt inaudibly.
Thus solemnized and softened, death is mild
And terrorless as this serenest night.
Here could I hope, like some enquiring child
Sporting on graves, that death did hide from human sight
Sweet secrets, or beside its breathless sleep
That loveliest dreams perpetual watch did keep.
Never was sun so bright before,
No matin of the lark so sweet,
No grass so green beneath my feet,
Nor with such dewdrops jewelled o'er.
I stand with thee outside the door,
The air not yet is close with heat,
And far across the yellowing wheat
The waves are breaking on the shore.
A lovely day! Yet many such,
Each like to each, this month have passed,
And none did so supremely shine.
One thing they lacked: the perfect touch
Of thee--and thou art come at last,
And half this loveliness is thine.
Season of mist and mellow fruit,
Of blossom and scented air.
Bird song and busy bee,
seem to inhabit everywhere
Grass green horizon,
velvet blue morning sky.
A little bird with a sweet song,
is singing on wing high in the sky.
Dew laden petals sparkle,
under the new day’s sun.
While somewhere in the distance,
children are laughing and having fun.
3 Nov 1978
Welcome, rain or tempest
From yon airy powers,
We have languished for them
Many sultry hours,
And earth is sick and wan, and pines with all her flowers.
What have they been doing
In the burning June?
Riding with the genii?
Visiting the moon?
Or sleeping on the ice amid an arctic noon?
Bring they with them jewels
From the sunset lands?
What are these they scatter
With such lavish hands?
There are no brighter gems in Raolconda's sands.
Pattering on the gravel,
Dropping from the eaves,
Glancing in the grass, and
Tinkling on the leaves,
They flash the liquid pearls as flung from fairy sieves.
Meanwhile, unreluctant,
Earth like Danae lies;
Listen! is it fancy,
That beneath us sighs,
As that warm lap receives the largesse of the skies?
Jove, it is, descendeth
In those crystal rills;
And this world-wide tremor
Is a pulse that thrills
To a god's life infused through veins of velvet hills.
Wait, thou jealous sunshine,
Break not on their bliss;
Earth will blush in roses
Many a day for this,
And bend a brighter brow beneath thy burning kiss.
In winter I get up at night
And dress by yellow candle-light.
In summer quite the other way,
I have to go to bed by day.
I have to go to bed and see
The birds still hopping on the tree,
Or hear the grown-up people's feet
Still going past me in the street.
And does it not seem hard to you,
When all the sky is clear and blue,
And I should like so much to play,
To have to go to bed by day?
Suddenly, from all the green around you,
something-you don't know what-has disappeared;
you feel it creeping closer to the window,
in total silence. From the nearby wood
you hear the urgent whistling of a plover,
reminding you of someone's Saint Jerome:
so much solitude and passion come
from that one voice, whose fierce request the downpour
will grant. The walls, with their ancient portraits, glide
away from us, cautiously, as though
they weren't supposed to hear what we are saying.
And reflected on the faded tapestries now;
the chill, uncertain sunlight of those long
childhood hours when you were so afraid.
Between the dusk of a summer night
And the dawn of a summer day,
We caught at a mood as it passed in flight,
And we bade it stoop and stay.
And what with the dawn of night began
With the dusk of day was done;
For that is the way of woman and man,
When a hazard has made them one.
Arc upon arc, from shade to shine,
The World went thundering free;
And what was his errand but hers and mine --
The lords of him, I and she?
O, it's die we must, but it's live we can,
And the marvel of earth and sun
Is all for the joy of woman and man
And the longing that makes them one.
’Tis the early summer season, when the skies are clear and blue;
When wide warm fields are glad with corn as green as ever grew,
And upland growths of wattles engolden all the view.
Oh! Is there conscious joyance in that heven so clearly blue?
And is it a felt happiness that thus comes beating through
Great nature’s mother heart, when the golden year is new?
When the woods are whitened over by the jolly cockatoo,
And swarm with birds as beautiful as ever gladdened through
The shining hours of time when the golden year was new?
Early summer rain--
houses facing the river,
two of them.
Translated by Robert Hass
I'm tired of murdering children.
Once, long ago today, they wanted to live;
now I feel Vietnam the place
where rigor mortis is beginning to set-in upon me.
I force silence down the throats of mutes,
down the throats of mating-cries of animals who know they are extinct.
The chameleon's death-soliloquy is your voice's pulse;
your scorched forehead a constellation's suicide-note.
A phonograph needle plunges through long black hair,
and stone drips slowly into our veins.
The earth has been squandered by the meek.
And upsidedown in the earth a dead man walks upon my soles when I walk
A baby is crying.
In the swaddling-pages
a baby.
'Don't cry. No Solomori's-sword can
divide you from the sky.
You are one. Fly.'
I'm tired, so tired.
I have sleep to do.
I have work to dream.
Through the pregnant universe rumbles life's terrific thunder,
And Earth's bowels quake with terror; strange and terrible storms break,
Lightning-torches flame the heavens, kindling souls of men, thereunder:
Africa! long ages sleeping, O my motherland, awake!
In the East the clouds glow crimson with the new dawn that is breaking,
And its golden glory fills the western skies.
O my brothers and my sisters, wake! arise!
For the new birth rends the old earth and the very dead are waking,
Ghosts are turned flesh, throwing off the grave's disguise,
And the foolish, even children, are made wise;
For the big earth groans in travail for the strong, new world in making--
O my brothers, dreaming for dim centuries,
Wake from sleeping; to the East turn, turn your eyes!
Oh the night is sweet for sleeping, but the shining day's for working;
Sons of the seductive night, for your children's children's sake,
From the deep primeval forests where the crouching leopard's lurking,
Lift your heavy-lidded eyes, Ethiopia! awake!
In the East the clouds glow crimson with the new dawn that is breaking,
And its golden glory fills the western skies.
O my brothers and my sisters, wake! arise!
For the new birth rends the old earth and the very dead are waking,
Ghosts have turned flesh, throwing off the grave's disguise,
And the foolish, even children, are made wise;
For the big earth groans in travail for the strong, new world in making--
O my brothers, dreaming for long centuries,
Wake from sleeping; to the East turn, turn your eyes!
Fair summer droops, droop men and beasts therefore,
So fair a summer look for nevermore:
All good things vanish less than in a day,
Peace, plenty, pleasure, suddenly decay.
Go not yet away, bright soul of the sad year,
The earth is hell when thou leav'st to appear.
What, shall those flowers that decked thy garland erst,
Upon thy grave be wastefully dispersed?
O trees, consume your sap in sorrow's source,
Streams, turn to tears your tributary course.
Go not yet hence, bright soul of the sad year,
The earth is hell when thou leav'st to appear.
A seated statue of himself he seems.
A bronze slowness becomes him. Patently
The page he contemplates he doesn't see.
The lesson, the long lesson, has been summer.
His mind holds summer, as his skin holds sun.
For once the homework, all of it, was done.
What were the crops, where were the fiery fields
Where for so many days so many hours
The sun assaulted him with glittering showers.
Expect a certain absence in his presence.
Expect all winter long a summer scholar,
For scarcely all its snows can cool that color.
Fickle Summer's fled away,
Shall we see her face again?
Hearken to the weeping rain,
Never sunbeam greets the day.
More inconstant than the May,
She cares nothing for our pain,
Nor will hear the birds complain
In their bowers that once were gay.
Summer, Summer, come once more,
Drive the shadows from the field,
All thy radiance round thee fling,
Be our lady as of yore;
Then the earth her fruits shall yield,
Then the morning stars shall sing.
No matter how hard I listen, the wind speaks
One syllable, which has no comfort in it--
Only a rasping of air through the dead elm.
*
Once a poet told me of his friend who was torn apart
By two pigs in a field in Poland. The man
Was a prisoner of the Nazis, and they watched,
He said, with interest and a drunken approval . . .
If terror is a state of complete understanding,
Then there was probably a point at which the man
Went mad, and felt nothing, though certainly
He understood everything that was there: after all,
He could see blood splash beneath him on the stubble,
He could hear singing float toward him from the barracks.
*
And though I don't know much about madness,
I know it lives in the thin body like a harp
Behind the rib cage. It makes it painful to move.
And when you kneel in madness your knees are glass,
And so you must stand up again with great care.
*
Maybe this wind was what he heard in 1941.
Maybe I have raised a dead man into this air,
And now I will have to bury him inside my body,
And breathe him in, and do nothing but listen--
Until I hear the black blood rushing over
The stone of my skull, and believe it is music.
But some things are not possible on the earth.
And that is why people make poems about the dead.
And the dead watch over then, until they are finished:
Until their hands feel like glass on the page,
And snow collects in the blind eyes of statues.
1068
Further in Summer than the Birds
Pathetic from the Grass
A minor Nation celebrates
Its unobtrusive Mass.
No Ordinance be seen
So gradual the Grace
A pensive Custom it becomes
Enlarging Loneliness.
Antiquest felt at Noon
When August burning low
Arise this spectral Canticle
Repose to typify
Remit as yet no Grace
No Furrow on the Glow
Yet a Druidic Difference
Enhances Nature now
Summer's heat can swelter and melt...
As summer's heat may simmer as weld.
Some summer's heat can burn as long...
This summer's heat can impel a song.
Summer's heat can cook and bake...
Summer's heat of life can take.
Boil and broil a heart so hot...
A summer's heat can break that romanceful knot.
This heat of summer can smoulder and rot.
Anger's heat, heats up my libido's furnace...
This love of summer can invoke to heart, a loving furnish.
Love of summer brings to mind, a resurgance of love...
Summer's sun may bathe one and all with heat fro' above.
Summer's heat can bring to beaches and swimming pools...
Visions of women in bikinied thongs, these things my eyes do love.
Her final summer was it,
And yet we guessed it not;
If tenderer industriousness
Pervaded her, we thought
A further force of life
Developed from within,--
When Death lit all the shortness up,
And made the hurry plain.
We wondered at our blindness,--
When nothing was to see
But her Carrara guide-post,--
At our stupidity
When, duller than our dulness,
The busy darling lay,
So busy was she, finishing,
So leisurely were we!
I know a place where summer strives
With such a practised frost,
She each year leads her daisies back,
Recording briefly, 'Lost.'
But when the south wind stirs the pools
And struggles in the lanes,
Her heart misgives her for her vow,
And she pours soft refrains
Into the lap of adamant,
And spices, and the dew,
That stiffens quietly to quartz
Upon her amber shoe.
I know I am but summer to your heart,
And not the full four seasons of the year;
And you must welcome from another part
Such noble moods as are not mine, my dear.
No gracious weight of golden fruits to sell
Have I, nor any wise and wintry thing;
And I have loved you all too long and well
To carry still the high sweet breast of Spring.
Wherefore I say: O love, as summer goes,
I must be gone, steal forth with silent drums,
That you may hail anew the bird and rose
When I come back to you, as summer comes.
Else will you seek, at some not distant time,
Even your summer in another clime.
In youth, it was a way I had
To do my best to please,
And change, with every passing lad,
To suit his theories.
But now I know the things I know,
And do the things I do;
And if you do not like me so,
To hell, my love, with you!
A soft veil dims the tender skies,
And half conceals from pensive eyes
The bronzing tokens of the fall;
A calmness broods upon the hills,
And summer's parting dream distills
A charm of silence over all.
The stacks of corn, in brown array,
Stand waiting through the placid day,
Like tattered wigwams on the plain;
The tribes that find a shelter there
Are phantom peoples, forms of air,
And ghosts of vanished joy and pain.
At evening when the crimson crest
Of sunset passes down the West,
I hear the whispering host returning;
On far-off fields, by elm and oak,
I see the lights, I smell the smoke,--
The Camp-fires of the Past are burning.
Lyric night of the lingering Indian summer,
Shadowy fields that are scentless but full of singing,
Never a bird, but the passionless chant of insects,
Ceaseless, insistent.
The grasshopper's horn, and far off, high in the maples
The wheel of a locust slowly grinding the silence,
Under a moon waning and warn and broken,
Tired with summer.
Let me remember you, voices of little insects,
Weeds in the moonlight, fields that are tangled with asters,
Let me remember you, soon the winter will be on us,
Snow-hushed and heartless.
Over my soul murmur your mute benediction
While I gaze, oh fields that rest after harvest,
As those who part look long in the eyes they lean to,
Lest they forget them.
In spring and summer winds may blow,
And rains fall after, hard and fast;
The tender leaves, if beaten low,
Shine but the more for shower and blast
But when their fated hour arrives,
When reapers long have left the field,
When maidens rifle turn'd-up hives,
And their last juice fresh apples yield,
A leaf perhaps may still remain
Upon some solitary tree,
Spite of the wind and of the rain . . .
A thing you heed not if you see.
At last it falls. Who cares? Not one:
And yet no power on earth can ever
Replace the fallen leaf upon
Its spray, so easy to dissever.
If such be love, I dare not say.
Friendship is such, too well I know:
I have enjoyed my summer day;
'Tis past; my leaf now lies below.
How plain and height
With dewdrops are bright!
How pearls have crown'd
The plants all around!
How sighs the breeze
Thro' thicket and trees!
How loudly in the sun's clear rays
The sweet birds carol forth their lays!
But, ah! above,
Where saw I my love,
Within her room,
Small, mantled in gloom,
Enclosed around,
Where sunlight was drown'd,
How little there was earth to me,
With all its beauteous majesty!
In that summer of loving you
I was free
All things were possible
And I believed them all
In that summer of loving you
I was beautiful
I saw myself in your eyes
And I was wonderful
In that summer of loving you
I danced with passion
In and out of arms of love
And you held me
In that summer of loving you
I was laughter
You laughed with me
But never at me
In that summer of loving you
I lost you
And my heart was breaking...   As you left me
In the summer
I stretch out on the shore
And think of you
Had I told the sea
What I felt for you,
It would have left its shores,
Its shells,
Its fish,
And followed me.
Translated by B. Frangieh And C. Brown
Submitted by Noele Aabye
I remember well that summer place,
The sun, the sea, the surf soaked sand,
The light that lit your lovley face,
As we splashed bare foot, hand in hand.
And in the evening on the pier,
Our bodies sore from too much sun,
Tenderly I held you near,
We danced to Cyril Stapleton.
And later in that gox on wheels,
Laughingly called a caravan,
Where we cooked our meagre meals,
And loved as only lovers can.
And now so many years have passed,
I`ve grown old, (I hope with grace) .
Countless memories I`ve amassed,
But I remember well that summer place.
I
I see the boys of summer in their ruin
Lay the gold tithings barren,
Setting no store by harvest, freeze the soils;
Theire in their heat the winter floods
Of frozen loves they fetch their girls,
And drown the cargoed apples in their tides.
These boys of light are curdlers in their folly,
Sour the boiling honey;
The jacks of frost they finger in the hives;
There in the sun the frigid threads
Of doubt and dark they feed their nerves;
The signal moon is zero in their voids.
I see the summer children in their mothers
Split up the brawned womb's weathers,
Divide the night and day with fairy thumbs;
There in the deep with quartered shades
Of sun and moon they paint their dams
As sunlight paints the shelling of their heads.
I see that from these boys shall men of nothing
Stature by seedy shifting,
Or lame the air with leaping from its hearts;
There from their hearts the dogdayed pulse
Of love and light bursts in their throats.
O see the pulse of summer in the ice.
II
But seasons must be challenged or they totter
Into a chiming quarter
Where, punctual as death, we ring the stars;
There, in his night, the black-tongued bells
The sleepy man of winter pulls,
Nor blows back moon-and-midnight as she blows.
We are the dark deniers, let us summon
Death from a summer woman,
A muscling life from lovers in their cramp,
From the fair dead who flush the sea
The bright-eyed worm on Davy's lamp,
And from the planted womb the man of straw.
We summer boys in this four-winded spinning,
Green of the seaweed's iron,
Hold up the noisy sea and drop her birds,
Pick the world's ball of wave and froth
To choke the deserts with her tides,
And comb the county gardens for a wreath.
In spring we cross our foreheads with the holly,
Heigh ho the blood and berry,
And nail the merry squires to the trees;
Here love's damp muscle dries and dies,
Here break a kiss in no love's quarry.
O see the poles of promise in the boys.
III
I see the boys of summer in their ruin.
Man in his maggot's barren.
And boys are full and foreign in the pouch.
I am the man your father was.
We are the sons of flint and pitch.
O see the poles are kissing as they cross.
221
It can't be "Summer"!
That—got through!
It's early—yet—for "Spring"!
There's that long town of White—to cross—
Before the Blackbirds sing!
It can't be "Dying"!
It's too Rouge—
The Dead shall go in White—
So Sunset shuts my question down
With Cuffs of Chrysolite!
342
It will be Summer—eventually.
Ladies—with parasols—
Sauntering Gentlemen—with Canes—
And little Girls—with Dolls—
Will tint the pallid landscape—
As 'twere a bright Bouquet—
Thro' drifted deep, in Parian—
The Village lies—today—
The Lilacs—bending many a year—
Will sway with purple load—
The Bees—will not despise the tune—
Their Forefathers—have hummed—
The Wild Rose—redden in the Bog—
The Aster—on the Hill
Her everlasting fashion—set—
And Covenant Gentians—frill—
Till Summer folds her miracle—
As Women—do—their Gown—
Of Priests—adjust the Symbols—
When Sacrament—is done—
(ALCAICS)
Confused, he found her lavishing feminine
Gold upon clay, and found her inscrutable;
And yet she smiled. Why, then, should horrors
Be as they were, without end, her playthings?
And why were dead years hungrily telling her
Lies of the dead, who told them again to her?
If now she knew, there might be kindness
Clamoring yet where a faith lay stifled.
A little faith in him, and the ruinous
Past would be for time to annihilate,
And wash out, like a tide that washes
Out of the sand what a child has drawn there.
God, what a shining handful of happiness,
Made out of days and out of eternities,
Were now the pulsing end of patience—
Could he but have what a ghost had stolen!
What was a man before him, or ten of them,
While he was here alive who could answer them,
And in their teeth fling confirmations
Harder than agates against an egg-shell?
But now the man was dead, and would come again
Never, though she might honor ineffably
The flimsy wraith of him she conjured
Out of a dream with his wand of absence.
And if the truth were now but a mummery,
Meriting pride’s implacable irony,
So much the worse for pride. Moreover,
Save her or fail, there was conscience always.
Meanwhile, a few misgivings of innocence,
Imploring to be sheltered and credited,
Were not amiss when she revealed them.
Whether she struggled or not, he saw them.
Also, he saw that while she was hearing him
Her eyes had more and more of the past in them;
And while he told what cautious honor
Told him was all he had best be sure of,
He wondered once or twice, inadvertently,
Where shifting winds were driving his argosies,
Long anchored and as long unladen,
Over the foam for the golden chances.
“If men were not for killing so carelessly,
And women were for wiser endurances,”
He said, “we might have yet a world here
Fitter for Truth to be seen abroad in;
“If Truth were not so strange in her nakedness,
And we were less forbidden to look at it,
We might not have to look.” He stared then
Down at the sand where the tide threw forward
Its cold, unconquered lines, that unceasingly
Foamed against hope, and fell. He was calm enough,
Although he knew he might be silenced
Out of all calm; and the night was coming.
“I climb for you the peak of his infamy
That you may choose your fall if you cling to it.
No more for me unless you say more.
All you have left of a dream defends you:
“The truth may be as evil an augury
As it was needful now for the two of us.
We cannot have the dead between us.
Tell me to go, and I go.”—She pondered:
“What you believe is right for the two of us
Makes it as right that you are not one of us.
If this be needful truth you tell me,
Spare me, and let me have lies hereafter.”
She gazed away where shadows were covering
The whole cold ocean’s healing indifference.
No ship was coming. When the darkness
Fell, she was there, and alone, still gazing.
'Tis moonlight, summer moonlight,
All soft and still and fair;
The solemn hour of midnight
Breathes sweet thoughts everywhere,
But most where trees are sending
Their breezy boughs on high,
Or stooping low are lending
A shelter from the sky.
And there in those wild bowers
A lovely form is laid;
Green grass and dew-steeped flowers
Wave gently round her head.
O Summer Hill! if thou wert mine,
I'd order in a pipe of wine,
And ask a dozen friends to dine.
In faith, I would not spare the guineas,
But send for Pag and other ninies,
Flutes, hautboys, fiddles, pipes, and tabors,
Hussars with moustaches and sabres,
Quadrilles, and that grand waltz of Weber's,
And give a dance to all my neighbours;
And here I'd sit and quaff my fill
Among the trees of Summer Hill.
Then with bland eye careering slowly,
O'er bush-crowned ridge end valley lowly;
I'd drain the cup to thee, old Rowley!
To thee, and to thy courtly train,
Once tenants of thy fair domain;
Soft Stewart, haughtiest Castlemaine,
Pert Nelly Gwynne, and Lucy Waters,
Old England's fairest, frailest daughters.
E'en now, 'midst yonder leafy glade,
Methinks I see thy Royal shade
In amplitude of wig arrayed;
Near thee thy rival in peruke,
Stands Buckingham, uproarious Duke,
With Tony Hamilton and Killegrew;
And Wilmot, that sad rake till ill he grew,
When to amend his life and turn it
He promised pious Doctor Burnet;
In time let's hope to make old Nicholas
Lose all his pains, and look ridiculous!
Alexander! loftier far
Now culminates thy happier star
Than his of old, my ancient crony,
Thy namesake erst of Macedony,
Unrivalled, save, perhaps, by Boney.
Oh! happier far in thy degree
Art thou, although a conqueror he,
While thou art but an ex-M.P.
Yea, far more blessed my Alexander,
Art thou than that deceas'd commander;
Much though his name be honour'd, Fate,
Making thee Lord of this estate,
Dubbed thee in verity 'The Great.'
Thou ne'er wert led through wanton revelling,
These sylvan scenes to play the devil in;
In these sweet shades so praised by Grammont,
Thou didst not call thyself 'Young Ammon.'
And I, for one, wouldst thou invite us,
Would never fear the fate of Clytus.
No lady of too easy virtue
E'er made you think enough to hurt you,
And then with recklessness amazing,
Bade you set house and all a-blazing.
('Tis hard to say which works the quicker,
To make folks blockheads, love or liquor.
But oh! it is an awful thing,
When both combine to make a king
Descend to play the part of Swing!)
Another world, thou dost not sigh
To conquer, much less pipe thine eye,
I dare be sworn -- no! Alexander,
Thou art not half as great a gander:
This is thy globe -- here toujours gai
Thy motto still, though, well-a-day,
Sarum be popp'd in schedule A.
O Summer, Summer, Summer Hill,
Fain would I gaze and linger still;
But see the moon her silver lamp
Uprears, the grass is getting damp.
And hark! the curfew's parting knell
Is toll'd by Doctor Knox's bell!
I go to join my wife and daughters,
Drinking these nasty-flavoured waters.
O Summer Hill! I must repine,
Thou art not, never will be mine
-- I have not even got the wine.
Once upon a Summer day,
Birds chirped in a musical way,
Grass drenched in the morning dew,
The sky covered in a vast color of blue.
Once upon a summer day,
Flowers bloomed in full array,
Bright rays of sunlight spilled
Upon my garden on the hill.
Once upon a summer day,
Thunder rumbled and prolonged its stay,
But after the rain tumbled down,
This summer day wore a glorious rainbow crown.
On the idle hill of summer,
Sleepy with the flow of streams,
Far I hear the steady drummer
Drumming like a noise in dreams.
Far and near and low and louder
On the roads of earth go by,
Dear to friends and food for powder,
Soldiers marching, all to die.
East and west on fields forgotten
Bleach the bones of comrades slain,
Lovely lads and dead and rotten;
None that go return again.
Far the calling bugles hollo,
High the screaming fife replies,
Gay the files of scarlet follow:
Woman bore me, I will rise.
I'd walk her home after work
buying roses and talking of Bechsteins.
She was full of soul.
Her small room was gorged with heat
and there were no windows.
She'd take off everything
but her pants
and take the pins from her hair
throwing them on the floor
with a great noise.
Like Crete.
We wouldn't make love.
She'd get on the bed
with those nipples
and we'd lie
sweating
and talking of my best friend.
They were in love.
When I got quiet
she'd put on usually Debussy
and
leaning down to the small ribs
bite me.
Hard.
Anonymous submission.
How beautiful is the rain!
After the dust and heat,
In the broad and fiery street,
In the narrow lane,
How beautiful is the rain!
How it clatters along the roofs,
Like the tramp of hoofs
How it gushes and struggles out
From the throat of the overflowing spout!
Across the window-pane
It pours and pours;
And swift and wide,
With a muddy tide,
Like a river down the gutter roars
The rain, the welcome rain!
The sick man from his chamber looks
At the twisted brooks;
He can feel the cool
Breath of each little pool;
His fevered brain
Grows calm again,
And he breathes a blessing on the rain.
From the neighboring school
Come the boys,
With more than their wonted noise
And commotion;
And down the wet streets
Sail their mimic fleets,
Till the treacherous pool
Ingulfs them in its whirling
And turbulent ocean.
In the country, on every side,
Where far and wide,
Like a leopard's tawny and spotted hide,
Stretches the plain,
To the dry grass and the drier grain
How welcome is the rain!
In the furrowed land
The toilsome and patient oxen stand;
Lifting the yoke encumbered head,
With their dilated nostrils spread,
They silently inhale
The clover-scented gale,
And the vapors that arise
From the well-watered and smoking soil.
For this rest in the furrow after toil
Their large and lustrous eyes
Seem to thank the Lord,
More than man's spoken word.
Near at hand,
From under the sheltering trees,
The farmer sees
His pastures, and his fields of grain,
As they bend their tops
To the numberless beating drops
Of the incessant rain.
He counts it as no sin
That he sees therein
Only his own thrift and gain.
These, and far more than these,
The Poet sees!
He can behold
Aquarius old
Walking the fenceless fields of air;
And from each ample fold
Of the clouds about him rolled
Scattering everywhere
The showery rain,
As the farmer scatters his grain.
He can behold
Things manifold
That have not yet been wholly told,--
Have not been wholly sung nor said.
For his thought, that never stops,
Follows the water-drops
Down to the graves of the dead,
Down through chasms and gulfs profound,
To the dreary fountain-head
Of lakes and rivers under ground;
And sees them, when the rain is done,
On the bridge of colors seven
Climbing up once more to heaven,
Opposite the setting sun.
Thus the Seer,
With vision clear,
Sees forms appear and disappear,
In the perpetual round of strange,
Mysterious change
From birth to death, from death to birth,
From earth to heaven, from heaven to earth;
Till glimpses more sublime
Of things, unseen before,
Unto his wondering eyes reveal
The Universe, as an immeasurable wheel
Turning forevermore
In the rapid and rushing river of Time.
"Oh, dear, this utterly sweltering season of the highly rampant sun is drawing nigh, and it will always be good enough to go on taking daytime baths, as the lakes and rivers will still be with plenteous waters, and at the end of the day, nightfall will be pleasant with fascinating moon, and in such nights Love-god can somehow be almost mollified...[who tortured us in the previous vernal season... but now without His sweltering us, we can happily enjoy the nights devouring cool soft drinks and dancing and merrymaking in outfields...]
"Oh, beloved one, somewhere the moon shoved the blackish columns of night aside, somewhere else the palace-chambers with water [showering, sprinkling and splashing] machines are highly exciting, and else where the matrices of gems, [like coolant pearls and moon-stone, etc.,] are there, and even the pure sandalwood is liquefied [besides other coolant scents,] thus this season gets an adoration from all the people...
"The beloved ones will enjoy the summer's clear late nights while they are atop the rooftops of buildings that are delightful and fragranced well, while they savour the passion intensifiers like strong drinks and while the ladylove's face suspires the bouquets of those drinks together with melodious instrumental and vocal music...
"The women are ameliorating the heat of their lovers with their chicly silken coolant fineries gliding onto their rotund fundaments, for they are knotted loosely, and on those silks glissading are their golden cinctures with their dangling tassels that are unfastened on and off, and with their buxom bosoms that are bedaubed with sandal-paste and semi-covered with pearly strings and golden lavalieres, and with their locks of hair that are sliding onto their faces, which locks are fragrant with bath-time emulsions, which are just applied before their oil bath...
"Brightly coloured with the reddish foot-paint that is akin to the colour of lac's reddish resin, adorned with anklets that are festooned with jingling bells, whose tintinnabulations on their stepping after stepping mimic the clucks of swans, with such feet those women with bumpy behinds are rendering the hearts of people impassioned, in these days of pre-summer...
"These days the bosoms of womenfolk are bedaubed with scents and sandal-paste, and they are given out to snowily and whitely pearly pendants that are sported on those bosoms, and even their hiplines are with the dangling golden griddle-strings, with such a lovely ostentation whose heart is it, that does not fill with raptures...
"The seams of limbs of ladies of age are conquered by the often emerging sweat, thus those peaky bosomed lustful ladies are presently banding their bosoms with softish fineries, casting aside their roughish apparels ...
"The rustles of air comprising the aroma of watered sandal-paste, blown off by the fans with peacocks' plumage, and the rustle of strings of pearls when the roundish bosoms of loves are hugged, together with the subtle melody of string instruments, and subtly sung intonations of singers, now appear to awaken Love-god, Manmatha, who is as though asleep after his manoeuvres in the last spring season...
"On leisurely seeing the faces of the maids that are comfortably sleeping well on the tops of whitish edifices, the moon of these nights is highly ecstasized, for he is unpossessed with any such flawless face, as his own face is flawed with rabbit-like, deer-like foibles, and when the night dwindles, he doubtlessly goes into state of pallidity, as though ashamed to show his face to the flawless sun...
"The intolerable westerly wind of the summer is up-heaving the clouds of dust, even the earth is ablaze, set by the blazing sun, and the itinerants whose hearts are already put to blaze by the blazing called the detachment from their ladyloves, and now it has become impossible for them even to look at the blazing earth, to tread further...
"The reigning sun's torridity rendered the animals parched, and with unquenchable thirst highly shrivelled are their tongues, throats and lips, and on seeing kneaded blackish mascara like mirages on the sky in another forest, that are cloudlike in their shine, those animals are rushing there, presuming them to be water...
"The women of charm are with  smiles and slanted looks,  and now they are on par with the twilights that are ornamented with a beautiful ornament called moon, and they are now decorating themselves confusedly and they are inciting the incorporeal Love-god in the hearts of itinerants...
"Extremely seared by the rays of sun, and even by the already seared dust on the pathway, with its slithery motion and downcast hood, repeatedly suspiring when being scalded thus awfully, that serpent is sinking down under the pave of peacock's plumage, distrait of the fact that a peacock is an enemy of serpents, thus distrait is the relative danger from a born enemy or from the searing summer...
"Thwarted are the valorousness and venturesomeness of that king of animals, the lion, for the thirst is abnormal, thereby gaping his mouth much lengthily, and suspiring repeatedly with a lengthened and dangling tongue, and repeatedly whisking his frontal hair of the mane, that lion is not pawing the elephants, though they are at his nearby, and though they both of them are born rivals, thus the scalding summer cooled off their mutual contempt...
"Verily dried up are their throats, but somehow some cool water remaining in their trunks is brought to those dry throats with the prehensility of their trunks, but too scanty is that water for those mega-vores, further muchly scorched by sun's scorching rays and overpowered by heightened thirst, even those water-seeking tuskers are unafraid of those nearby lions, as negligible is the physical danger than the natural danger...
"The scorching sunrays that are akin to the tongues of blazed up Ritual-fire, by them the bodies as well as the souls of peacocks are wilted, thus they wedge their faces in the pack of their plumage for certain coolness, and though they mark the serpents that are milling about under the very same plumage through the plumes and feathers, they peck not those serpents to death, as their priority is to cool off their faces and heads...
"The slime in the ponds is dried up but in some areas Bhadramusta grass is available, and while the herd of wild boars is digging up that grass with their long and broad snouts for a piggish slumber, the sunrays have highly sweltered their backs, but that herd dug the dry swamp more and more, as though to enter the interior of earth, to get a mucky, miry, muddy slumber...
"With the unbearable prickly heat of sunrays highly seared is a frog, and jumping up from a pond with mud and muddy water, it jumped to sit under the shade of a parasol, called the hood of a snake... neither thirstier frog is aware that it is the shade of a snake's hood, nor the thirstiest snake is aware that it is shading a thirsty frog...
"When each other elephant is highly huddling, belaboured is that lake by their elephantine limbs, and completely uprooted are the tall slender stems of lilies and lotuses of that lake, without any remnants of standing lotuses or lilies, thus trampled and agglutinated with mud, they are heaped up under the feet of elephants, and ill-fated are the fishes when trodden by elephants underfoot, and the Saarasa waterfowls are fleeing with fear of this rumpus...
"Akin to sunshine upcast is irradiance of the jewel on its hood, and wigwagging is its twinned tongue licking the air, and it is seared by its own venom, by fiery soil, and by the searing sun as well, and thus tottering thirstily, that hooded serpent is not draining the dregs of frogs, to the dregs...
"Frothily gaping and reeling are the two-pieced snouts, and jerkily extruding are the lightly reddened tongues, and staggering thirstily looking for water with upraised snouts, those herds of she-buffalos are extruding from the caves of mountain with such snouts and gaits, wherein they took shade from the scorching sun so far, but thirst drove them out of those cool caves...
"Extremely withered as though by wildfire and utterly shrivelled are the tender stalks of crops, and windswept by harsh winds they are uprooted and completely wilted and reduced to straw, and all over scorched are they in an overall manner as the water is evaporated, and if seen from highlands till the end of forest, this summer is foisting upon the onlookers a kind of disconcert, as the straw in the wind about the monsoon is unnoticeable...
"Perching on the trees with wilted leaves, flocks of birds are hyperventilating, the overtired troops of monkeys are going nigh of viny caves on the mountain, the water-craving herds of buffalos are rambling hither and thither, the straight flying Sharabha birds are nose-diving into wells and easily lifting up the water...
"The wildfire, that is simulative of a just blossomed bright and fierily ochreish safflower, is exceedingly speedy and further whipped up by the speed of the wind it is eagerly embracing the treetops, that are on the banks of lakes and rivers, with tongues of fire, onto which trees the apices of climber plants are eager to embrace, thus that wildfire has burnt down every quarter of land, in a trice...
"That wildfire, now intensified by the gusts, is blazing the valleys of mountains, and thus skittering across it entered the stands of bamboos, only to shatter them in a second with clattering rattles, then escalated by gusts it is overspreading the straw fields, then from their within, on smacking the perimeter of straw-field, it is broiling the herds of deer, tumultuously ...
"That wildfire taking a rebirth in the copses of silk-cotton trees is extremely blazing, and from within the cavities of the trees it is erupting with the glint of golden yellow, and thus uprooting the wizened leaves on wizened branches along with their trees, and then hurled by gusts it is whirling everywhere in that woodland unto its edging...
"When fire scorched their bodies, their dichotomic thinking of mutual hostilities had to be discarded, and those elephants, buffalos and lions come together as friends, and when blighted by the fire, they are quickly exiting their habitual confines to enter the areas of rivers that have broad sandbanks...
"Oh, dear melodious singer, what if the summer is scorching... fragrant lotuses are overlaid on coolant waters, agreeably refreshing is the fragrance of Trumpet flowers, comfortable is the fresh water in bathing pools, pleasurable are those moonbeams, and with these pearly pendants and these jasmine garlands, let our simmering summer nights enjoyably slip by, while we abide on the tops of buildings right under the moonscape, savouring potations and amidst music and song...
Branches naked against skies of blue,
Skeletons all, with summer gone,
Stark and rigid, in morbid hue,
Oh, so sad now, to look upon.
Festive trees no longer seen,
Nothing softening to the eye,
Only memories of what has been,
Now the leaves have said 'goodbye'.
But once the spring comes into view,
These skeletons will live and thrive,
Those spreading arms will be clothed anew,
And once again become alive.
New buds will sprout from boughs so bare,
And will in time, exposed limbs, disguise,
Then a glorious show, nothing will compare,
With this vision of green, against clear blue skies.
©   Ernestine Northover
AS swallows turning backward
When half-way o'er the sea,
At one word's trumpet summons
They came again to me -
The hopes I had forgotten
Came back again to me.
I know not which to credit,
O lady of my heart!
Your eyes that bade me linger,
Your words that bade us part -
I know not which to credit,
My reason or my heart.
But be my hopes rewarded,
Or be they but in vain,
I have dreamed a golden vision,
I have gathered in the grain -
I have dreamed a golden vision,
I have not lived in vain.
Rolling blades of grass play in the meadows green,
as bird songs whisper my name in the trees...
the breeze circles me enfolding me in its tune,
a serenade that happens on beautiful days in June.
The wind entices me with its strength to cool,
as the sun rejuvenates me with its warmth,
leaving me every so often the sky clouds over and wind ceases,
thus causing me to ponder which climate I treasure most.
Could it be the slight breeze?
which engulfs my being with the promise that a new day will unfold?
Or the heat of the bright sun rays waterfall,
which makes me squint till I close my eyes to dream?
Each force of nature wonderfully displayed and Splendid!
Each sensation inspiring to my mind, body and soul!
Both together fill me with wonder which envelopes me...
with the memories of past summer days untold.
My sleeping children are still flying dreams
in their goose-down heads.
The lush of the river singing morning songs
Fish watch their ceilings turn sun-white.
The grey-green pike lances upstream
Kale, like mermaid's hair
points the water's drift.
All is morning hush
and bird beautiful.
I only,
I didn't have flu.
Pray but one prayer for me 'twixt thy closed lips,
Think but one thought of me up in the stars.
The summer night waneth, the morning light slips,
Faint and grey 'twixt the leaves of the aspen, betwixt the cloud-bars
That are patiently waiting there for the dawn:
Patient and colourless, though Heaven's gold
Waits to float through them along with the sun.
Far out in the meadows, above the young corn,
The heavy elms wait, and restless and cold
The uneasy wind rises; the roses are dun;
Through the long twilight they pray for the dawn,
Round the lone house in the midst of the corn,
Speak but one word to me over the corn,
Over the tender, bow'd locks of the corn.
The frog half fearful jumps across the path,
And little mouse that leaves its hole at eve
Nimbles with timid dread beneath the swath;
My rustling steps awhile their joys deceive,
Till past, and then the cricket sings more strong,
And grasshoppers in merry moods still wear
The short night weary with their fretting song.
Up from behind the molehill jumps the hare,
Cheat of his chosen bed, and from the bank
The yellowhammer flutters in short fears
From off its nest hid in the grasses rank,
And drops again when no more noise it hears.
Thus nature's human link and endless thrall,
Proud man, still seems the enemy of all.
31
Summer for thee, grant I may be
When Summer days are flown!
Thy music still, when Whipporwill
And Oriole—are done!
For thee to bloom, I'll skip the tomb
And row my blossoms o'er!
Pray gather me—
Anemone—
Thy flower—forevermore!
Has summer come without the rose,
Or left the bird behind?
Is the blue changed above thee,
O world! or am I blind?
Will you change every flower that grows,
Or only change this spot,
Where she who said, I love thee,
Now says, I love thee not?
The skies seemed true above thee,
The rose true on the tree;
The bird seemed true the summer through,
But all proved false to me.
When the sun shouts and people abound
One thinks there were the ages of stone and the age of
bronze
And the iron age; iron the unstable metal;
Steel made of iron, unstable as his mother; the tow-
ered-up cities
Will be stains of rust on mounds of plaster.
Roots will not pierce the heaps for a time, kind rains
will cure them,
Then nothing will remain of the iron age
And all these people but a thigh-bone or so, a poem
Stuck in the world's thought, splinters of glass
In the rubbish dumps, a concrete dam far off in the
mountain...
Now swarthy Summer, by rude health embrowned,
Precedence takes of rosy fingered Spring;
And laughing Joy, with wild flowers prank'd, and crown'd,
A wild and giddy thing,
And Health robust, from every care unbound,
Come on the zephyr's wing,
And cheer the toiling clown.
Happy as holiday-enjoying face,
Loud tongued, and "merry as a marriage bell,"
Thy lightsome step sheds joy in every place;
And where the troubled dwell,
Thy witching charms wean them of half their cares;
And from thy sunny spell,
They greet joy unawares.
Then with thy sultry locks all loose and rude,
And mantle laced with gems of garish light,
Come as of wont; for I would fain intrude,
And in the world's despite,
Share the rude wealth that thy own heart beguiles;
If haply so I might
Win pleasure from thy smiles.
Me not the noise of brawling pleasure cheers,
In nightly revels or in city streets;
But joys which soothe, and not distract the ears,
That one at leisure meets
In the green woods, and meadows summer-shorn,
Or fields, where bee-fly greets
The ear with mellow horn.
The green-swathed grasshopper, on treble pipe,
Sings there, and dances, in mad-hearted pranks;
There bees go courting every flower that's ripe,
On baulks and sunny banks;
And droning dragon-fly, on rude bassoon,
Attempts to give God thanks
In no discordant tune.
The speckled thrush, by self-delight embued,
There sings unto himself for joy's amends,
And drinks the honey dew of solitude.
There Happiness attends
With inbred Joy until the heart o'erflow,
Of which the world's rude friends,
Nought heeding, nothing know.
There the gay river, laughing as it goes,
Plashes with easy wave its flaggy sides,
And to the calm of heart, in calmness shows
What pleasure there abides,
To trace its sedgy banks, from trouble free:
Spots Solitude provides
To muse, and happy be.
There ruminating 'neath some pleasant bush,
On sweet silk grass I stretch me at mine ease,
Where I can pillow on the yielding rush;
And, acting as I please,
Drop into pleasant dreams; or musing lie,
Mark the wind-shaken trees,
And cloud-betravelled sky.
There think me how some barter joy for care,
And waste life's summer-health in riot rude,
Of nature, nor of nature's sweets aware.
When passions vain intrude,
These, by calm musings, softened are and still;
And the heart's better mood
Feels sick of doing ill.
There I can live, and at my leisure seek
Joys far from cold restraints--not fearing pride--
Free as the winds, that breathe upon my cheek
Rude health, so long denied.
Here poor Integrity can sit at ease,
And list self-satisfied
The song of honey-bees.
The green lane now I traverse, where it goes
Nought guessing, till some sudden turn espies
Rude batter'd finger post, that stooping shows
Where the snug mystery lies;
And then a mossy spire, with ivy crown,
Cheers up the short surprise,
And shows a peeping town.
I see the wild flowers, in their summer morn
Of beauty, feeding on joy's luscious hours;
The gay convolvulus, wreathing round the thorn,
Agape for honey showers;
And slender kingcup, burnished with the dew
Of morning's early hours,
Like gold yminted new.
And mark by rustic bridge, o'er shallow stream,
Cow-tending boy, to toil unreconciled,
Absorbed as in some vagrant summer dream;
Who now, in gestures wild,
Starts dancing to his shadow on the wall,
Feeling self-gratified,
Nor fearing human thrall.
Or thread the sunny valley laced with streams,
Or forests rude, and the o'ershadow'd brims
Of simple ponds, where idle shepherd dreams,
Stretching his listless limbs;
Or trace hay-scented meadows, smooth and long,
Where joy's wild impulse swims
In one continued song.
I love at early morn, from new mown swath,
To see the startled frog his route pursue;
To mark while, leaping o'er the dripping path,
His bright sides scatter dew,
The early lark that from its bustle flies,
To hail his matin new;
And watch him to the skies.
To note on hedgerow baulks, in moisture sprent,
The jetty snail creep from the mossy thorn,
With earnest heed, and tremulous intent,
Frail brother of the morn,
That from the tiny bent's dew-misted leaves
Withdraws his timid horn,
And fearful vision weaves.
Or swallow heed on smoke-tanned chimney top,
Wont to be first unsealing Morning's eye,
Ere yet the bee hath gleaned one wayward drop
Of honey on his thigh;
To see him seek morn's airy couch to sing,
Until the golden sky
Bepaint his russet wing.
Or sauntering boy by tanning corn to spy,
With clapping noise to startle birds away,
And hear him bawl to every passer by
To know the hour of day;
While the uncradled breezes, fresh and strong,
With waking blossoms play,
And breathe Æolian song.
I love the south-west wind, or low or loud,
And not the less when sudden drops of rain
Moisten my glowing cheek from ebon cloud,
Threatening soft showers again,
That over lands new ploughed and meadow grounds,
Summer's sweet breath unchain,
And wake harmonious sounds.
Rich music breathes in Summer's every sound;
And in her harmony of varied greens,
Woods, meadows, hedge-rows, corn-fields, all around
Much beauty intervenes,
Filling with harmony the ear and eye;
While o'er the mingling scenes
Far spreads the laughing sky.
See, how the wind-enamoured aspen leaves
Turn up their silver lining to the sun!
And hark! the rustling noise, that oft deceives,
And makes the sheep-boy run:
The sound so mimics fast-approaching showers,
He thinks the rain's begun,
And hastes to sheltering bowers.
But now the evening curdles dank and grey,
Changing her watchet hue for sombre weed;
And moping owls, to close the lids of day,
On drowsy wing proceed;
While chickering crickets, tremulous and long,
Light's farewell inly heed,
And give it parting song.
The pranking bat its flighty circlet makes;
The glow-worm burnishes its lamp anew;
O'er meadows dew-besprent, the beetle wakes
Inquiries ever new,
Teazing each passing ear with murmurs vain,
As wanting to pursue
His homeward path again.
Hark! 'tis the melody of distant bells
That on the wind with pleasing hum rebounds
By fitful starts, then musically swells
O'er the dim stilly grounds;
While on the meadow-bridge the pausing boy
Listens the mellow sounds,
And hums in vacant joy.
Now homeward-bound, the hedger bundles round
His evening faggot, and with every stride
His leathern doublet leaves a rustling sound,
Till silly sheep beside
His path start tremulous, and once again
Look back dissatisfied,
And scour the dewy plain.
How sweet the soothing calmness that distills
O'er the heart's every sense its opiate dews,
In meek-eyed moods and ever balmy trills!
That softens and subdues,
With gentle Quiet's bland and sober train,
Which dreamy eve renews
In many a mellow strain!
I love to walk the fields, they are to me
A legacy no evil can destroy;
They, like a spell, set every rapture free
That cheer'd me when a boy.
Play--pastime--all Time's blotting pen conceal'd,
Comes like a new-born joy,
To greet me in the field.
For Nature's objects ever harmonize
With emulous Taste, that vulgar deed annoys;
Which loves in pensive moods to sympathize,
And meet vibrating joys
O'er Nature's pleasing things; nor slighting, deems
Pastimes, the Muse employs,
Vain and obtrusive themes.
On London fell a clearer light;
Caressing pencils of the sun
Defined the distances, the white
Houses transfigured one by one,
The 'long, unlovely street' impearled.
O what a sky has walked the world!
Most happy year! And out of town
The hay was prosperous, and the wheat;
The silken harvest climbed the down:
Moon after moon was heavenly-sweet,
Stroking the bread within the sheaves,
Looking 'twixt apples and their leaves.
And while this rose made round her cup,
The armies died convulsed. And when
This chaste young silver sun went up
Softly, a thousand shattered men,
One wet corruption, heaped the plain,
After a league-long throb of pain.
Flower following tender flower; and birds,
And berries; and benignant skies
Made thrive the serried flocks and herds. --
Yonder are men shot through the eyes.
Love, hide thy face
From man's unpardonable race.
Who said 'No man hath greater love than this,
To die to serve his friend'?
So these have loved us all unto the end.
Chide thou no more, O thou unsacrificed!
The soldier dying dies upon a kiss,
The very kiss of Christ.
One shows me how to lie down in a field of clover.
Another how to slip my hand under her Sunday skirt.
Another how to kiss with a mouth full of blackberries.
Another how to catch fireflies in jar after dark.
Here is a stable with a single black mare
And the proof of God's existence riding in a red nightgown.
Devil's child--or whatever she was?
Having the nerve to ask me to go get her a whip.
Gently I stir a white feather fan,
With open shirt sitting in a green wood.
I take off my cap and hang it on a jutting stone;
A wind from the pine-tree trickles on my bare head.
Li T'ai-po
tr. Waley
The Oriole sings in the greening grove
As if he were half-way waiting,
The rosebuds peep from their hoods of green,
Timid, and hesitating.
The rain comes down in a torrent sweep
And the nights smell warm and pinety,
The garden thrives, but the tender shoots
Are yellow-green and tiny.
Then a flash of sun on a waiting hill,
Streams laugh that erst were quiet,
The sky smiles down with a dazzling blue
And the woods run mad with riot.
Summer is dying in the purple and gold and russet
of the falling leaves of the wood,
and the sunset clouds are dying
in their own blood.
In the emptying public gardens
the last strollers break their walk
to lift their eyes and follow
the flight of the last stork.
The heart is orphaned. Soon
the cold rains will be drumming.
'Have you patched your coat for winter!
Stocked potatoes against its coming?'
Athwart the star-lit midnight sky
Luminous fleecy clouds drift by,
As the mysterious, pallid moon
Sinks in the waveless still lagoon.
Now that the queen of night is dead,
The starry commonwealth o'erhead
(Softer and fairer than gaudy day)
Sheds lustrous light from the Milky Way;
While the Dog-star gleams, and the Sisters Seven,
Float tremulously in the misty heaven.
Faintly, afar the horse-bells ring;
Myriads of wakened crickets sing;
And the spirit voices of the night
Sing snatches of fairy music bright,
Old-world melodies - lang syne sung -
Recalling days when the heart was young,
Whose wonderful cadences fall and rise,
As the wind in the casuarina sighs;
And the world seems 'gulfed, this summer night,
In a flood of delicious, dreamy light.
All yesterday it poured, and all night long
I could not sleep; the rain unceasing beat
Upon the shingled roof like a weird song,
Upon the grass like running children's feet.
And down the mountains by the dark cloud kissed,
Like a strange shape in filmy veiling dressed,
Slid slowly, silently, the wraith-like mist,
And nestled soft against the earth's wet breast.
But lo, there was a miracle at dawn!
The still air stirred at touch of the faint breeze,
The sun a sheet of gold bequeathed the lawn,
The songsters twittered in the rustling trees.
And all things were transfigured in the day,
But me whom radiant beauty could not move;
For you, more wonderful, were far away,
And I was blind with hunger for your love.
Summer night--
even the stars
are whispering to each other.
Translated by Robert Hass
In the wild soft summer darkness
How many and many a night we two together
Sat in the park and watched the Hudson
Wearing her lights like golden spangles
Glinting on black satin.
The rail along the curving pathway
Was low in a happy place to let us cross,
And down the hill a tree that dripped with bloom
Sheltered us,
While your kisses and the flowers,
Falling, falling,
Tangled in my hair. . . .
The frail white stars moved slowly over the sky.
And now, far off
In the fragrant darkness
The tree is tremulous again with bloom
For June comes back.
To-night what girl
Dreamily before her mirror shakes from her hair
This year's blossoms, clinging to its coils?
They come back in their white
shifts, their ruffled shawls of salt
white, the way the dead always return
when you need them the most—
when it's too hot to do anything
but picture the worst—the Bomb
finally fallen, the world burned-up,
the entire planet radioactive—
when you are too weak to do anything
but lie in a stupor and call them back
to drift at your side, in eyelet dresses
of old starlight, fresh-faced and cold.
Anonymous submission.
See what delights in sylvan scenes appear!
Descending Gods have found Elysium here.
In woods bright Venus with Adonis stray'd,
And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade.
Come lovely nymph, and bless the silent hours,
When swains from shearing seek their nightly bow'rs;
When weary reapers quit the sultry field,
And crown'd with corn, their thanks to Ceres yield.
This harmless grove no lurking viper hides,
But in my breast the serpent Love abides.
Here bees from blossoms sip the rosy dew,
But your Alexis knows no sweets but you.
Oh deign to visit our forsaken seats,
The mossy fountains, and the green retreats!
Where-e'er you walk, cool gales shall fan the glade,
Trees, where you sit, shall crowd into a shade,
Where-e'er you tread, the blushing flow'rs shall rise,
And all things flourish where you turn your eyes.
Oh! How I long with you to pass my days,
Invoke the muses, and resound your praise;
Your praise the birds shall chant in ev'ry grove,
And winds shall waft it to the pow'rs above.
But wou'd you sing, and rival Orpheus' strain,
The wond'ring forests soon shou'd dance again,
The moving mountains hear the pow'rful call,
And headlong streams hang list'ning in their fall!
But see, the shepherds shun the noon-day heat,
The lowing herds to murm'ring brooks retreat,
To closer shades the panting flocks remove,
Ye Gods! And is there no relief for Love?
But soon the sun with milder rays descends
To the cool ocean, where his journey ends;
On me Love's fiercer flames for ever prey,
By night he scorches, as he burns by day.
Some men there are who find in nature all
Their inspiration, hers the sympathy
Which spurs them on to any great endeavor,
To them the fields and woods are closest friends,
And they hold dear communion with the hills;
The voice of waters soothes them with its fall,
And the great winds bring healing in their sound.
To them a city is a prison house
Where pent up human forces labour and strive,
Where beauty dwells not, driven forth by man;
But where in winter they must live until
Summer gives back the spaces of the hills.
To me it is not so. I love the earth
And all the gifts of her so lavish hand:
Sunshine and flowers, rivers and rushing winds,
Thick branches swaying in a winter storm,
And moonlight playing in a boat's wide wake;
But more than these, and much, ah, how much more,
I love the very human heart of man.
Above me spreads the hot, blue mid-day sky,
Far down the hillside lies the sleeping lake
Lazily reflecting back the sun,
And scarcely ruffled by the little breeze
Which wanders idly through the nodding ferns.
The blue crest of the distant mountain, tops
The green crest of the hill on which I sit;
And it is summer, glorious, deep-toned summer,
The very crown of nature's changing year
When all her surging life is at its full.
To me alone it is a time of pause,
A void and silent space between two worlds,
When inspiration lags, and feeling sleeps,
Gathering strength for efforts yet to come.
For life alone is creator of life,
And closest contact with the human world
Is like a lantern shining in the night
To light me to a knowledge of myself.
I love the vivid life of winter months
In constant intercourse with human minds,
When every new experience is gain
And on all sides we feel the great world's heart;
The pulse and throb of life which makes us men!
Come we to the summer, to the summer we will come,
For the woods are full of bluebells and the hedges full of bloom,
And the crow is on the oak a-building of her nest,
And love is burning diamonds in my true lover's breast;
She sits beneath the whitethorn a-plaiting of her hair,
And I will to my true lover with a fond request repair;
I will look upon her face, I will in her beauty rest,
And lay my aching weariness upon her lovely breast.
The clock-a-clay is creeping on the open bloom of May,
The merry bee is trampling the pinky threads all day,
And the chaffinch it is brooding on its grey mossy nest
In the whitethorn bush where I will lean upon my lover's breast;
I'll lean upon her breast and I'll whisper in her ear
That I cannot get a wink o'sleep for thinking of my dear;
I hunger at my meat and I daily fade away
Like the hedge rose that is broken in the heat of the day.
Remember the days of our first happiness,
how strong we were, how dazed by passion,
lying all day, then all night in the narrow bed,
sleeping there, eating there too: it was summer,
it seemed everything had ripened
at once.  And so hot we lay completely uncovered.
Sometimes the wind rose; a willow brushed the window.
But we were lost in a way, didn't you feel that?
The bed was like a raft; I felt us drifting
far from our natures, toward a place where we'd discover nothing.
First the sun, then the moon, in fragments,
stone through the willow.
Things anyone could see.
Then the circles closed.  Slowly the nights grew cool;
the pendant leaves of the willow
yellowed and fell.  And in each of us began
a deep isolation, though we never spoke of this,
of the absence of regret.
We were artists again, my husband.
We could resume the journey.
Anonymous submission.
Summer looked for long am I:
Much shall change or e'er I die.
Prithee take it not amiss
Though I weary thee with bliss.
Beneath summer rain
happy garden grass will know
sun is coming soon.
It's that beautiful summer sky..
Like blue raspberries
I dare to try...
Freshly squeezed home made orange tropicana...
To wash down my yellow banana...
Ruby red cherries
How sweet the summer berries..
Dark green rhines
Of sweet red watermelon..
The perfect scenario of heaven...
The perfect summer rainbow...
There are sweet little secrets
In our green crowded garden...
They do grow...
So the next time
You look into that beautiful summer sky
With your fruitful eyes...
Take a bite of that summer rainbow
In your garden
Just below..
A drop fell on the apple tree,
Another on the roof;
A half a dozen kissed the eaves,
And made the gables laugh.
A few went out to help the brook,
That went to help the sea.
Myself conjectured, Were they pearls,
What necklaces could be!
The dust replaced in hoisted roads,
The birds jocoser sung;
The sunshine threw his hat away,
The orchards spangles hung.
The breezes brought dejected lutes,
And bathed them in the glee;
The East put out a single flag,
And signed the fete away.
I looked into my heart to write
And found a desert there.
But when I looked again I heard
Howling and proud in every word
The hyena despair.
Great summer sun, great summer sun,
All loss burns in trophies;
And in the cold sheet of the sky
Lifelong the fishlipped lovers lie
Kissing catastrophes.
O loving garden where I lay
When under the breasted tree
My son stood up behind my eyes
And groaned: Remember that the price
Is vinegar for me.
Great summer sun, great summer sun,
Turn back to the designer:
I would not be the one to start
The breaking day and the breaking heart
For all the grief in China.
My one, my one, my only love,
Hide, hide your face in a leaf,
And let the hot tear falling burn
The stupid heart that will not learn
The everywhere of grief.
Great summer sun, great summer sun,
Turn back to the never-never
Cloud-cuckoo, happy, far-off land
Where all the love is true love, and
True love goes on for ever.
Summer breeze
summer long
I'll sing to you
my summer song
Read a poem
A summer song
It isn't long
It's just a song
From my heart
a poem long
but not at all
my summer song
My summer long
is something special
a poem, a song
to my heart belong
Summer breeze
summer long
I'll sing to you
my summer song
Bend low again, night of summer stars.
So near you are, sky of summer stars,
So near, a long-arm man can pick off stars,
Pick off what he wants in the sky bowl,
So near you are, summer stars,
So near, strumming, strumming,
So lazy and hum-strumming.
Great is the sun, and wide he goes
Through empty heaven with repose;
And in the blue and glowing days
More thick than rain he showers his rays.
Though closer still the blinds we pull
To keep the shady parlour cool,
Yet he will find a chink or two
To slip his golden fingers through.
The dusty attic spider-clad
He, through the keyhole, maketh glad;
And through the broken edge of tiles
Into the laddered hay-loft smiles.
Meantime his golden face around
He bares to all the garden ground,
And sheds a warm and glittering look
Among the ivy's inmost nook.
Above the hills, along the blue,
Round the bright air with footing true,
To please the child, to paint the rose,
The gardener of the World, he goes.
It's sumertime,
School vacation has begun,
Time for children to play,
And have fun in the sun.
Now the children
Are out of school,
There are trees to climb,
Swimming in the pool.
Time to spend
With special friends.
Seems they're on the go
Until the days end.
But when summer vacation
Is finally through,
It's time to hit the books
And return to school.
It is a sultry day; the sun has drank
The dew that lay upon the morning grass,
There is no rustling in the lofty elm
That canopies my dwelling, and its shade
Scarce cools me. All is silent, save the faint
And interrupted murmur of the bee,
Settling on the sick flowers, and then again
Instantly on the wing. The plants around
Feel the too potent fervors; the tall maize
Rolls up its long green leaves; the clover droops
Its tender foliage, and declines its blooms.
But far in the fierce sunshine tower the hills,
With all their growth of woods, silent and stern,
As if the scortching heat and dazzling light
Were but an element they loved. Bright clouds,
Motionless pillars of the brazen heaven;--
Their bases on the mountains--their white tops
Shining in the far ether--fire the air
With a reflected radiance, and make turn
The gazer's eye away. For me, I lie
Languidly in the shade, where the thick turf,
Yet virgin from the kisses of the sun,
Retains some freshness, and I woo the wind
That still delays its coming. Why so slow,
Gentle and voluble spirit of the air?
Oh, come and breathe upon the fainting earth
Coolness and life. Is it that in his caves
He hears me? See, on yonder woody ridge,
The pine is bending his proud top, and now,
Among the nearer groves, chesnut and oak
Are tossing their green boughs about. He comes!
Lo, where the grassy meadow runs in wives!
The deep distressful silence of the scene
Breaks up with mingling of unnumbered sounds
And universal motion. He is come,
Shaking a shower of blossoms from the shrubs,
And bearing on the fragrance; and he brings
Music of birds, and rustling of young boughs,
And soun of swaying branches, and the voice
Of distant waterfalls. All the green herbs
Are stirring in his breath; a thousand flowers,
By the road-side and the borders of the brook,
Nod gaily to each other; glossy leaves
Are twinkling in the sun, as if the dew
Were on them yet, and silver waters break
Into small waves and sparkle as he comes.
We should have put you in your hunting coat
Beneath its abstract whorls of pheasant blood.
I think that might have kept you less remote
From cattails and the smell of river mud.
I held you last beneath a locust tree
Where limbs writhed in a passion of leaf fall
Your moon-burned body fitted close to me,
But grief is not original at all.
Though you shall come to summer with no words,
And my arms hold the empptiness of air,
The slate-gray sky will keep its flow of birds;
Sun unto moon forgetting we were there.
That strain again? It seems to tell
Of something like a joy departed;
I love its mourning accents well,
Like voice of one, ah! broken-hearted.
That note that pensive dies away,
And can each answering thrill awaken,
It sadly, wildly, seems to say,
Thy meek heart mourns its truth forsaken.
Or there was one who never more
Shall meet thee with the looks of gladness,
When all of happier life was o'er,
When first began thy night of sadness.
Sweet mourner, cease that melting strain,
Too well it suits the grave's cold slumbers;
Too well the heart that loved in vain
Breathes, lives, and weeps in those wild numbers.
The last rose of summer lingers of a soft fragrance
as the days of summer fade into days only remembered
over the fires embers that stir yesterdays moment.
The last rose of summer whose beauty brought love and caring
in the cool evening breeze to a heart
touched briefly by its petals of soft color.
The last rose of summer that but briefly spoke of tenderness
to a heart in the stillness of the night
to be remembered in the quiet fragrance of a rose.
The last rose of summer whose petals are pressed to a book
hiding it's treasure of yesterdays love
remembering days held in time not to be forgotten.
To Thomas Pennant, Esquire.
... equidem credo, quia sit divinitus illis
Ingenium.
Virg., Georg.
When day declining sheds a milder gleam,
What time the may-fly haunts the pool or stream;
When the still owl skims round the grassy mead,
What time the timorous hare limps forth to feed;
Then be the time to steal adown the vale,
And listen to the vagrant cuckoo's tale;
To hear the clamorous curlew call his mate,
Or the soft quail his tender pain relate;
To see the swallow sweep the dark'ning plain
Belated, to support her infant train;
To mark the swift in rapid giddy ring
Dash round the steeple, unsubdu'd of wing:
Amusive birds! -- say where your hid retreat
When the frost rages and the tempests beat;
Whence your return, by such nice instinct led,
When spring, soft season, lifts her bloomy head?
Such baffled searches mock man's prying pride,
The God of Nature is your secret guide!
While deep'ning shades obscure the face of day
To yonder bench leaf-shelter'd let us stray,
'Till blended objects fail the swimming sight,
And all the fading landscape sinks in night;
To hear the drowsy dorr come brushing by
With buzzing wing, or the shrill cricket cry;
To see the feeding bat glance through the wood;
To catch the distant falling of the flood;
While o'er the cliff th'awakened churn-owl hung
Through the still gloom protracts his chattering song;"
While high in air, and pois'd upon his wings,
Unseen, the soft, enamour'd woodlark sings:
These, Nature's works, the curious mind employ,
Inspire a soothing melancholy joy:
As fancy warms, a pleasing kind of pain
Steals o'er the cheek, and thrills the creeping vein!
Each rural sight, each sound, each smell, combine;
The tinkling sheep-bell, or the breath of kine;
The new-mown hay that scents the swelling breeze,
Or cottage-chimney smoking through the trees.
The chilling night-dews fall: away, retire;
For see, the glow-worm lights her amorous fire!
Thus, ere night's veil had half obscur'd the sky,
Th'impatient damsel hung her lamp on high:
True to the signal, by love's meteor led,
Leander hasten'd to his Hero's bed.
I am , & c.
The songs of summer are over and past!
The swallow's forsaken the dripping eaves;
Ruined and black 'mid the sodden leaves
The nests are rudely swung in the blast:
And ever the wind like a soul in pain
Knocks and knocks at the window-pane.
The songs of summer are over and past!
Woe's me for a music sweeter than theirs--
The quick, light bound of a step on the stairs,
The greeting of lovers too sweet to last:
And ever the wind like a soul in pain
Knocks and knocks at the window-pane.
It is a place whither I've often gone
For peace, and found it, secret, hushed, and cool,
A beautiful recess in neighboring woods.
Trees of the soberest hues, thick-leaved and tall,
Arch it o'erhead and column it around,
Framing a covert, natural and wild,
Domelike and dim; though nowhere so enclosed
But that the gentlest breezes reach the spot
Unwearied and unweakened.  Sound is here
A transient and unfrequent visitor;
Yet if the day be calm, not often then,
Whilst the high pines in one another's arms
Sleep, you may sometimes with unstartled ear
Catch the far fall of voices, how remote
You know not, and you do not care to know.
The turf is soft and green, but not a flower
Lights the recess, save one, star-shaped and bright --
I do not know its name -- which here and there
Gleams like a sapphire set in emerald.
A narrow opening in the branched roof,
A single one, is large enough to show,
With that half glimpse a dreamer loves so much,
The blue air and the blessing of the sky.
Thither I always bent my idle steps,
When griefs depressed, or joys disturbed my heart,
And found the calm I looked for, or returned
Strong with the quiet rapture in my soul.
But one day,
One of those July days when winds have fled
One knows not whither, I, most sick in mind
With thoughts that shall be nameless, yet, no doubt,
Wrong, or at least unhealthful, since though dark
With gloom, and touched with discontent, they had
No adequate excuse, nor cause, nor end,
I, with these thoughts, and on this summer day,
Entered the accustomed haunt, and found for once
No medicinal virtue.
Not a leaf
Stirred with the whispering welcome which I sought,
But in a close and humid atmosphere,
Every fair plant and implicated bough
Hung lax and lifeless.  Something in the place,
Its utter stillness, the unusual heat,
And some more secret influence, I thought,
Weighed on the sense like sin.  Above I saw,
Though not a cloud was visible in heaven,
The pallid sky look through a glazed mist
Like a blue eye in death.
The change, perhaps,
Was natural enough; my jaundiced sight,
The weather, and the time explain it all:
Yet have I drawn a lesson from the spot,
And shrined it in these verses for my heart.
Thenceforth those tranquil precincts I have sought
Not less, and in all shades of various moods;
But always shun to desecrate the spot
By vain repinings, sickly sentiments,
Or inconclusive sorrows.  Nature, though
Pure as she was in Eden when her breath
Kissed the white brow of Eve, doth not refuse,
In her own way and with a just reserve,
To sympathize with human suffering;
But for the pains, the fever, and the fret
Engendered of a weak, unquiet heart,
She hath no solace; and who seeks her when
These be the troubles over which he moans,
Reads in her unreplying lineaments
Rebukes, that, to the guilty consciousness,
Strike like contempt.
The turquoise pool rose up to meet us,
its slide a silver afterthought down which
we plunged, screaming, into a mirage of bubbles.
We did not exist beyond the gaze of a boy.
Shaking water off our limbs, we lifted
up from ladder rungs across the fern-cool
lip of rim. Afternoon. Oiled and sated,
we sunbathed, rose and paraded the concrete,
danced to the low beat of "Duke of Earl".
Past cherry colas, hot-dogs, Dreamsicles,
we came to the counter where bees staggered
into root beer cups and drowned. We gobbled
cotton candy torches, sweet as furtive kisses,
shared on benches beneath summer shadows.
Cherry. Elm. Sycamore. We spread our chenille
blankets across grass, pressed radios to our ears,
mouthing the old words, then loosened
thin bikini straps and rubbed baby oil with iodine
across sunburned shoulders, tossing a glance
through the chain link at an improbable world.
My books I'd fain cast off, I cannot read,
'Twixt every page my thoughts go stray at large
Down in the meadow, where is richer feed,
And will not mind to hit their proper targe.
Plutarch was good, and so was Homer too,
Our Shakespeare's life were rich to live again,
What Plutarch read, that was not good nor true,
Nor Shakespeare's books, unless his books were men.
Here while I lie beneath this walnut bough,
What care I for the Greeks or for Troy town,
If juster battles are enacted now
Between the ants upon this hummock's crown?
Bid Homer wait till I the issue learn,
If red or black the gods will favor most,
Or yonder Ajax will the phalanx turn,
Struggling to heave some rock against the host.
Tell Shakespeare to attend some leisure hour,
For now I've business with this drop of dew,
And see you not, the clouds prepare a shower--
I'll meet him shortly when the sky is blue.
This bed of herd's grass and wild oats was spread
Last year with nicer skill than monarchs use.
A clover tuft is pillow for my head,
And violets quite overtop my shoes.
And now the cordial clouds have shut all in,
And gently swells the wind to say all's well;
The scattered drops are falling fast and thin,
Some in the pool, some in the flower-bell.
I am well drenched upon my bed of oats;
But see that globe come rolling down its stem,
Now like a lonely planet there it floats,
And now it sinks into my garment's hem.
Drip drip the trees for all the country round,
And richness rare distills from every bough;
The wind alone it is makes every sound,
Shaking down crystals on the leaves below.
For shame the sun will never show himself,
Who could not with his beams e'er melt me so;
My dripping locks--they would become an elf,
Who in a beaded coat does gayly go.
'Tis moonlight, summer moonlight,
All soft and still and fair;
The solemn hour of midnight
Breathes sweet thoughts everywhere,
But most where trees are sending
Their breezy boughs on high,
Or stooping low are lending
A shelter from the sky.
And there in those wild bowers
A lovely form is laid;
Green grass and dew-steeped flowers
Wave gently round her head.
Tis the last rose of summer
Left blooming alone;
All her lovely companions
Are faded and gone:
No flower of her kindred,
No rose-bud is nigh,
To reflect back her blushes,
Or give sigh for sigh.
I'll not leave thee, thou lone one!
To pine on the stem;
Since the lovely are sleeping,
Go, sleep thou with them.
Thus kindly I scatter
Thy leaves o'er the bed,
Where thy mates of the garden
Lie scentless and dead.
So soon may I follow,
When friendships decay,
And from Love's shining circle
The gems drop away.
When true hearts lie wither'd,
And fond ones are flown,
Oh! who would inhabit
This bleak world alone?
O thou who passest thro' our valleys in
Thy strength, curb thy fierce steeds, allay the heat
That flames from their large nostrils! thou, O Summer,
Oft pitched'st here thy goldent tent, and oft
Beneath our oaks hast slept, while we beheld
With joy thy ruddy limbs and flourishing hair.
Beneath our thickest shades we oft have heard
Thy voice, when noon upon his fervid car
Rode o'er the deep of heaven; beside our springs
Sit down, and in our mossy valleys, on
Some bank beside a river clear, throw thy
Silk draperies off, and rush into the stream:
Our valleys love the Summer in his pride.
Our bards are fam'd who strike the silver wire:
Our youth are bolder than the southern swains:
Our maidens fairer in the sprightly dance:
We lack not songs, nor instruments of joy,
Nor echoes sweet, nor waters clear as heaven,
Nor laurel wreaths against the sultry heat.
846
Twice had Summer her fair Verdure
Proffered to the Plain—
Twice a Winter's silver Fracture
On the Rivers been—
Two full Autumns for the Squirrel
Bounteous prepared—
Nature, Had'st thou not a Berry
For thy wandering Bird?
In flat America, in Chicago,
Graceland cemetery on the German North Side.
Forty feet of Corinthian candle
celebrate Pullman embedded
lonely raisin in a cake of concrete.
The Potter Palmers float
in an island parthenon.
Barons of hogfat, railroads and wheat
are postmarked with angels and lambs.
But the Getty tomb: white, snow patterned
in a triangle of trees swims dappled with leaf shadow,
sketched light arch within arch
delicate as fingernail moons.
The green doors should not be locked.
Doors of fern and flower should not be shut.
Louis Sullivan, I sit on your grave.
It is not now good weather for prophets.
Sun eddies on the steelsmoke air like sinking honey.
On the inner green door of the Getty tomb
(a thighbone's throw from your stone)
a marvel of growing, blooming, thrusting into seed:
how all living wreathe and insinuate
in the circlet of repetition that never repeats:
ever new birth never rebirth.
Each tide pool microcosm spiraling from your hand.
Sullivan, you had another five years
when your society would give you work.
Thirty years with want crackling in your hands.
Thirty after years with cities
flowering and turning grey in your beard.
All poets are unemployed nowadays.
My country marches in its sleep.
The past structures a heavy mausoleum
hiding its iron frame in masonry.
Men burn like grass
while armies grow.
Thirty years in the vast rumbling gut
of this society you stormed
to be used, screamed
no louder than any other breaking voice.
The waste of a good man
bleeds the future that's come
in Chicago, in flat America,
where the poor still bleed from the teeth,
housed in sewers and filing cabinets,
where prophets may spit into the wind
till anger sleets their eyes shut,
where this house that dances the seasons
and the braid of all living
and the joy of a man making his new good thing
is strange, irrelevant as a meteor,
in Chicago, in flat America
in this year of our burning.
Warm Summer…
Bumblebee flies to the south
Hailed by the beautiful blossom orchid
Summer..oh Summer…
Awe grows on the way to the summer twilight..
Wish she could find the summer
Before she leaves the space
Forsake all Heavenly-Earth things
Summer..oh..Summer
I didn't write that novel
I've dreamed of for many years
Nor did I climb Mt. Everest
(I'm really scared of heights)
I didn't swim the English Channel
(It was a bit too far)
I didn't win a Pulitzer
Nor was Woman of the Year
I didn't have a face lift
Nor lose those extra pounds
Instead I did the usual
Housework, gardening, and such.
But while my hands performed their tasks
Those mundane, boring chores
My thoughts ranged far and wide
And I accomplished miracles
If only in my mind.
Hear the thunder echoing about
A sky with a green hue
The sign of hail on the way
Lighting giving a great show
Like a fireworks display.
And in the morning
Where once the plants
Were dying from the heat
Now covered with a blanket of white.
Which many have never seen.
During the night
While most slept
Winter had stolen the Summer
And left a winter scene.
Nearly forget the devastation
With such a wonderous scene
The day in Summer
When the land down under
Woke to a Winter scene.
(* Feb 28th.... Canberra Australia's capital... was turned into winter *)
Winter without you is like
a summer in a winter, when memories
of your love  murmur in my winter.
Summer in a winter was never been
hot as it is.when  the memories
of  your love  thrills me today.
Winters summer were very rare when
we walked on the bed of purple flowers
with your affectionate look.
When I forget this heat and
hold you in my poetic arms, you
kiss my  poem through your heart
in this winter.
winter's summer was very rare...
venky
691
Would you like summer? Taste of ours.
Spices? Buy here!
Ill! We have berries, for the parching!
Weary! Furloughs of down!
Perplexed! Estates of violet trouble ne'er looked on!
Captive! We bring reprieve of roses!
Fainting! Flasks of air!
Even for Death, a fairy medicine.
But, which is it, sir?
The church bells toll a melancholy round,
Calling the people to some other prayers,
Some other gloominess, more dreadful cares,
More harkening to the sermon's horrid sound.
Surely the mind of man is closely bound
In some blind spell: seeing that each one tears
Himself from fireside joys and Lydian airs,
And converse high of those with glory crowned.
Still, still they toll, and I should feel a damp,
A chill as from a tomb, did I not know
That they are dying like an outburnt lamp, -
That 'tis their sighing, wailing, ere they go
Into oblivion -that fresh flowers will grow,
And many glories of immortal stamp.
Look at the moon
Shining so bright
Look at the sun
It’s such a sight
Look at the river
Flowing so fast
I wonder, how long
These three will last
Along the sun-drenched roadside, from the great
hollow half-treetrunk, which for generations
has been a trough, renewing in itself
an inch or two of rain, I satisfy
my thirst: taking the water's pristine coolness
into my whole body through my wrists.
Drinking would be too powerful, too clear;
but this unhurried gesture of restraint
fills my whole consciousness with shining water.
Thus, if you came, I could be satisfied
to let my hand rest lightly, for a moment,
lightly, upon your shoulder or your breast.
And the sun slept on into the day
and lay buried deep
where the wisemen say
its gone to find some peace.
O hand me this, this tired star
and let it be thrown
with a spiteful toss so far so far
so far from home
Throw it to night and the darkness it craves
hurl it into endless space
watch it as it slowly fades
with an upturned face
O hope O hope you treacherous dawn
that promised light would come again
but you've grown dim and now are gone
Come night my cursed friend
A slant of sun on dull brown walls,
A forgotten sky of bashful blue.
Toward God a mighty hymn,
A song of collisions and cries,
Rumbling wheels, hoof-beats, bells,
Welcomes, farewells, love-calls, final moans,
Voices of joy, idiocy, warning, despair,
The unknown appeals of brutes,
The chanting of flowers,
The screams of cut trees,
The senseless babble of hens and wise men --
A cluttered incoherency that says at the stars:
"O God, save us!"
A song of the setting sun!
The sky in the west is red,
And the day is all but done;
While yonder up overhead,
All too soon,
There rises so cold the cynic moon.
A Song of a Winter day!
The wind of the north doth blow,
From a sky that's chill and gray,
On fields where no crops now grow,
Fields long shorn
Of bearded barley and golden corn.
A song of a faded flower!
'Twas plucked in the tender bud,
And fair and fresh for an hour,
In a Lady's hair it stood,
Now, ah! now,
Faded it lies in the dust and low.
As truly as the sun shines,
as truly as the clouds weep,
as truly as the flames spark,
as truly as Spring blooms,
as truly as I felt
as I held you in my embrace,
you love me, as I love you,
I love you, as you love me.
The sun may stop shining,
the clouds may weep no more,
the flames may die down,
Spring may blossom no more!
but let us embrace
and feel this way forever;
You love me as I love you,
and I love you as you love me.
The Sun woke me this morning loud
and clear, saying "Hey! I've been
trying to wake you up for fifteen
minutes. Don't be so rude, you are
only the second poet I've ever chosen
to speak to personally
so why
aren't you more attentive? If I could
burn you through the window I would
to wake you up. I can't hang around
here all day."
"Sorry, Sun, I stayed
up late last night talking to Hal."
"When I woke up Mayakovsky he was
a lot more prompt" the Sun said
petulantly. "Most people are up
already waiting to see if I'm going
to put in an appearance."
I tried
to apologize "I missed you yesterday."
"That's better" he said. "I didn't
know you'd come out." "You may be
wondering why I've come so close?"
"Yes" I said beginning to feel hot
wondering if maybe he wasn't burning me
anyway.
"Frankly I wanted to tell you
I like your poetry. I see a lot
on my rounds and you're okay. You may
not be the greatest thing on earth, but
you're different. Now, I've heard some
say you're crazy, they being excessively
calm themselves to my mind, and other
crazy poets think that you're a boring
reactionary. Not me.
Just keep on
like I do and pay no attention. You'll
find that people always will complain
about the atmosphere, either too hot
or too cold too bright or too dark, days
too short or too long.
If you don't appear
at all one day they think you're lazy
or dead. Just keep right on, I like it.
And don't worry about your lineage
poetic or natural. The Sun shines on
the jungle, you know, on the tundra
the sea, the ghetto. Wherever you were
I knew it and saw you moving. I was waiting
for you to get to work.
And now that you
are making your own days, so to speak,
even if no one reads you but me
you won't be depressed. Not
everyone can look up, even at me. It
hurts their eyes."
"Oh Sun, I'm so grateful to you!"
"Thanks and remember I'm watching. It's
easier for me to speak to you out
here. I don't have to slide down
between buildings to get your ear.
I know you love Manhattan, but
you ought to look up more often.
And
always embrace things, people earth
sky stars, as I do, freely and with
the appropriate sense of space. That
is your inclination, known in the heavens
and you should follow it to hell, if
necessary, which I doubt.
Maybe we'll
speak again in Africa, of which I too
am specially fond. Go back to sleep now
Frank, and I may leave a tiny poem
in that brain of yours as my farewell."
"Sun, don't go!" I was awake
at last. "No, go I must, they're calling
me."
"Who are they?"
Rising he said "Some
day you'll know. They're calling to you
too." Darkly he rose, and then I slept.
With the crack of the bat, baseballs seem to
fly and float over my glove! As i step back
near the wall, this round like orb
approaches furiously from way above!
I take a long jump, and stretch out my
gloved hand, Just a might short of this
warning track, while listening to the
roaring crowd, and it's peanut and hotdog
venders, over to the right of me, in this
noisily stand! I twirl in mid air and make
a spectacular catch, Throwing over hand,
with smooth agility and quickness of speed
to with evenly match! The throw is off to
second base, with a runner on first, A lot
of cheering fans order soda's and beers
to quench their excitement and thirst!
This game is nearly done, Looks like we've
nearly won! This sweet old sport is so much
fun!
2006 Michael Jeffrey Gale
That public men publish falsehoods
Is nothing new. That America must accept
Like the historical republics corruption and empire
Has been known for years.
Be angry at the sun for setting
If these things anger you. Watch the wheel slope and turn,
They are all bound on the wheel, these people, those warriors.
This republic, Europe, Asia.
Observe them gesticulating,
Observe them going down. The gang serves lies, the passionate
Man plays his part; the cold passion for truth
Hunts in no pack.
You are not Catullus, you know,
To lampoon these crude sketches of Caesar. You are far
From Dante's feet, but even farther from his dirty
Political hatreds.
Let boys want pleasure, and men
Struggle for power, and women perhaps for fame,
And the servile to serve a Leader and the dupes to be duped.
Yours is not theirs.
Anonymous submission.
Brethrens: Moon, Sun, distant Constellations
Powerful divine universal life forces
In true wonder and thanksgiving I hail
Thee, this morning’s shower of shooting stars
Packaged and dropped in old English’s
Majesty most perfectly graced in
Advent’s hope for a new year filled with
His wonderful gift of interior peace
Wandering soul now navigating star-lit
Celestial corridors, the holy Three
Calling me to their soft luminosity
Sweet Wisdom guiding this itinerant soul
A generous beacon assuring sound
Voyage to their promised new home port
the sun
is generous
as dad
in his love
we bask
so bright
and true
the moon
is selfless
as mom
pinning
day and night
to make sure
we shine
crowding
round her
like little stars
Whatever You do, Whatever You say,
Even if Your angry all day,
Even if You want quiet time alone,
Or possibly time away from home,
Don't Let the Sun go down on Your anger! ! !
Don't Let anger take hold of You,
That You don't know what You do!
Pray! Right away! Jesus is waiting to hear! !
Tell Him all about it! No Reason to fear!
Than all Your anger will disappear! ! !
Ask Jesus for Forgiveness Immediately! ! !
For the anger that You displayed
To No Longer have anger in Your Heart
So, It won't become a part of You, Everyday! ! !
When Jesus was Upon the Cross! ! !
He said 'Father Forgive Them!
For they do Not no what they do! '
Always Love One another! Forgive All Others!
Just Like Our Father Forgave Me and You! !
Follow Jesus Steps! It's God's Request! ! !
Patricia Grace Nicholson
One day we notice that the sun
needs feeding. Immediately
a crash program begins: we fill rockets
with wheat, smoke-rings, razorblades, then,
after long aiming
--they're off. Hulls specially alloyed
so as not to melt before the stuff
gets delivered we pour cattle rivers windmills,
aborigines etcet into the sun which
however, grows stubbornly
smaller, paler. Finally
of course we run out of things to feed the thing,
start shipping ourselves. By now
all the planets-moons-asteroids and
so on have been shoveled in though they're
not doing much good it's
still looking pretty weak, heck, nothing helps!
Now the last few of us left lift off.
The trip seems forever but then, touchdown.
Just before entering we wonder,
will we be enough. There's
a last-second doubt in our minds: can we,
can this final sacrifice, our broughten crumb,
satiate
it--will a glutteral belch burst out then at last,--
and will that Big Burp be seen by far-off telescopes,
interpreted as a nova
by those other galaxies,
those further stars which have always seemed even more
starving
than ours?
GIVE me the splendid silent sun, with all his beams full-dazzling;
Give me juicy autumnal fruit, ripe and red from the orchard;
Give me a field where the unmow'd grass grows;
Give me an arbor, give me the trellis'd grape;
Give me fresh corn and wheat--give me serene-moving animals, teaching
content;
Give me nights perfectly quiet, as on high plateaus west of the
Mississippi, and I looking up at the stars;
Give me odorous at sunrise a garden of beautiful flowers, where I can
walk undisturb'd;
Give me for marriage a sweet-breath'd woman, of whom I should never
tire;
Give me a perfect child--give me, away, aside from the noise of the
world, a rural, domestic life;
Give me to warble spontaneous songs, reliev'd, recluse by myself, for
my own ears only;                                            10
Give me solitude--give me Nature--give me again, O Nature, your
primal sanities!
--These, demanding to have them, (tired with ceaseless excitement,
and rack'd by the war-strife;)
These to procure, incessantly asking, rising in cries from my heart,
While yet incessantly asking, still I adhere to my city;
Day upon day, and year upon year, O city, walking your streets,
Where you hold me enchain'd a certain time, refusing to give me up;
Yet giving to make me glutted, enrich'd of soul--you give me forever
faces;
(O I see what I sought to escape, confronting, reversing my cries;
I see my own soul trampling down what it ask'd for.)
Keep your splendid, silent sun;                                    20
Keep your woods, O Nature, and the quiet places by the woods;
Keep your fields of clover and timothy, and your corn-fields and
orchards;
Keep the blossoming buckwheat fields, where the Ninth-month bees hum;
Give me faces and streets! give me these phantoms incessant and
endless along the trottoirs!
Give me interminable eyes! give me women! give me comrades and lovers
by the thousand!
Let me see new ones every day! let me hold new ones by the hand every
day!
Give me such shows! give me the streets of Manhattan!
Give me Broadway, with the soldiers marching--give me the sound of
the trumpets and drums!
(The soldiers in companies or regiments--some, starting away, flush'd
and reckless;
Some, their time up, returning, with thinn'd ranks--young, yet very
old, worn, marching, noticing nothing;)                      30
--Give me the shores and the wharves heavy-fringed with the black
ships!
O such for me! O an intense life! O full to repletion, and varied!
The life of the theatre, bar-room, huge hotel, for me!
The saloon of the steamer! the crowded excursion for me! the torch-
light procession!
The dense brigade, bound for the war, with high piled military wagons
following;
People, endless, streaming, with strong voices, passions, pageants;
Manhattan streets, with their powerful throbs, with the beating
drums, as now;
The endless and noisy chorus, the rustle and clank of muskets, (even
the sight of the wounded;)
Manhattan crowds, with their turbulent musical chorus--with varied
chorus, and light of the sparkling eyes;
Manhattan faces and eyes forever for me.                           40
He sendeth sun, he sendeth shower,
Alike they're needful for the flower:
And joys and tears alike are sent
To give the soul fit nourishment.
As comes to me or cloud or sun,
Father! thy will, not mine, be done!
Can loving children e'er reprove
With murmurs whom they trust and love?
Creator! I would ever be
A trusting, loving child to thee:
As comes to me or cloud or sun,
Father! thy will, not mine, be done!
Oh, ne'er will I at life repine:
Enough that thou hast made it mine.
When falls the shadow cold of death
I yet will sing, with parting breath,
As comes to me or shade or sun,
Father! thy will, not mine, be done!
Hast thou a charm to stay the morning-star
In his steep course? So long he seems to pause
On thy bald awful head, O sovran BLANC,
The Arve and Arveiron at thy base
Rave ceaselessly; but thou, most awful Form!
Risest from forth thy silent sea of pines,
How silently! Around thee and above
Deep is the air and dark, substantial, black,
An ebon mass: methinks thou piercest it,
As with a wedge! But when I look again,
It is thine own calm home, thy crystal shrine,
Thy habitation from eternity!
O dread and silent Mount! I gazed upon thee,
Till thou, still present to the bodily sense,
Didst vanish from my thought: entranced in prayer
I worshipped the Invisible alone.
Yet, like some sweet beguiling melody,
So sweet, we know not we are listening to it,
Thou, the meanwhile, wast blending with my Thought,
Yea, with my Life and Life's own secret joy:
Till the dilating Soul, enrapt, transfused,
Into the mighty vision passing--there
As in her natural form, swelled vast to Heaven!
Awake, my soul! not only passive praise
Thou owest! not alone these swelling tears,
Mute thanks and secret ecstasy! Awake,
Voice of sweet song! Awake, my heart, awake!
Green vales and icy cliffs, all join my Hymn.
Thou first and chief, sole sovereign of the Vale!
O struggling with the darkness all the night,
And visited all night by troops of stars,
Or when they climb the sky or when they sink:
Companion of the morning-star at dawn,
Thyself Earth's rosy star, and of the dawn
Co-herald: wake, O wake, and utter praise!
Who sank thy sunless pillars deep in Earth?
Who filled thy countenance with rosy light?
Who made thee parent of perpetual streams?
And you, ye five wild torrents fiercely glad!
Who called you forth from night and utter death,
From dark and icy caverns called you forth,
Down those precipitous, black, jaggéd rocks,
For ever shattered and the same for ever?
Who gave you your invulnerable life,
Your strength, your speed, your fury, and your joy,
Unceasing thunder and eternal foam?
And who commanded (and the silence came),
Here let the billows stiffen, and have rest?
Ye Ice-falls! ye that from the mountain's brow
Adown enormous ravines slope amain--
Torrents, methinks, that heard a mighty voice,
And stopped at once amid their maddest plunge!
Motionless torrents! silent cataracts!
Who made your glorious as the Gates of Heaven
Beneath the keen full moon? Who bade the sun
Clothe you with rainbows? Who, with living flowers
Of loveliest blue, spread garlands at your feet?--
God! let the torrents, like a shout of nations,
Answer! and let the ice-plains echo, God!
God! sing ye meadow-streams with gladsome voice!
Ye pine-groves, with your soft and soul-like sounds!
And they too have a voice, yon piles of snow,
And in their perilous fall shall thunder, God!
Ye living flowers that skirt the eternal frost!
Ye wild goats sporting round the eagle's nest!
Yet eagles, play-mates of the mountain-storm!
Ye lightnings, the dread arrows of the clouds!
Ye signs and wonders of the element!
Utter forth God, and fill the hills with praise!
Thou too, hoar Mount! with thy sky-pointing peaks,
Oft from whose feet the avalanche, unheard,
Shoots downward, glittering through the pure serene
Into the depth of clouds, that veil thy breast--
Thou too again, stupendous Mountain! thou
That as I raise my head, awhile bowed low
In adoration, upward from thy base
Slow travelling with dim eyes suffused with tears,
Solemnly seemest, like a vapoury cloud,
To rise before me--Rise, O ever rise,
Rise like a cloud of incense from the Earth!
Thou kingly Spirit throned among the hills,
Thou dread ambassador from Earth to Heaven,
Great Hierarch! tell thou the silent sky,
And tell the stars, and tell yon rising sun
Earth, with her thousand voices, praises God.
Sometimes a mortal feels in himself Nature
-- not his Father but his Mother stirs
within him, and he becomes immortal with her
immortality. From time to time she claims
kindredship with us, and some globule
from her veins steals up into our own.
I am the autumnal sun,
With autumn gales my race is run;
When will the hazel put forth its flowers,
Or the grape ripen under my bowers?
When will the harvest or the hunter's moon
Turn my midnight into mid-noon?
I am all sere and yellow,
And to my core mellow.
The mast is dropping within my woods,
The winter is lurking within my moods,
And the rustling of the withered leaf
Is the constant music of my grief...
I’ll tell you how the sun rose, -
A ribbon at a time.
The steeples swam in amethyst,
The news like squirrels ran.
The hills untied their bonnets,
The bobolinks begun.
Then I said softly to myself,
"That must have been the sun!"
But how he set, I know not.
There seemed a purple stile.
Which little yellow boys and girls
Were climbing all the while
Till when they reached the other side,
A dominie in gray
Put gently up the evening bars,
And led the flock away.
Hours fly,
Flowers die:
New days,
New ways:
Pass by!
Love stays.
You flew in softly and tiptoed in my life
My parched soul got a reprieve
My heart is now your permanent home
We shall play with elves and gnomes
The moon will sing with me a lullaby
The stars do a slow tambourine dance in the sky
My blurred vision suddenly got a divine sight
You are the soul of my soul, my eternal light
There is a river gushing inside me
You are the fountain, you are my chi
I hear nothing but your sweet voice
You shimmer, you glisten and I rejoice
You, my darling are my inner sun
You are the song that I will hum
Today, tomorrow and forever
Your inner light I shall devour
You are the ink on my heart that will never blur
The calligraphy etched deep inside
You have fulfilled a deep void
You are my baby, my love, my joy, my pride
Let the sun shine brightly each day,
Warming us deeply in our soul,
We are happy it's here to stay
Let the sun shine brightly each day,
Giving our earth a lovely ray,
Having found its own final knoll,
Let the sun shine brightly each day,
Warming us deeply in our soul.
Light breaks where no sun shines;
Where no sea runs, the waters of the heart
Push in their tides;
And, broken ghosts with glowworms in their heads,
The things of light
File through the flesh where no flesh decks the bones.
A candle in the thighs
Warms youth and seed and burns the seeds of age;
Where no seed stirs,
The fruit of man unwrinkles in the stars,
Bright as a fig;
Where no wax is, the candle shows its hairs.
Dawn breaks behind the eyes;
From poles of skull and toe the windy blood
Slides like a sea;
Nor fenced, nor staked, the gushers of the sky
Spout to the rod
Divining in a smile the oil of tears.
Night in the sockets rounds,
Like some pitch moon, the limit of the globes;
Day lights the bone;
Where no cold is, the skinning gales unpin
The winter's robes;
The film of spring is hanging from the lids.
Light breaks on secret lots,
On tips of thought where thoughts smell in the rain;
When logics die,
The secret of the soil grows through the eye,
And blood jumps in the sun;
Above the waste allotments the dawn halts.
When my life one day has gone
And the breath I breathe
From me moves on...
I wonder if you'll want me near?
Or see images of me,
That come and disappear?
Will you wish upon a star...
Love from you would find my heart?
When my life one day has gone
I hope our spirits connect,
Like heat from the Sun on a tree belongs!
Love is the Touch of the Sun
When it falls, darkness will reign
But when a new day comes undone,
Forgotten will be, the past sorrow and pain
188
Make me a picture of the sun—
So I can hang it in my room—
And make believe I'm getting warm
When others call it "Day"!
Draw me a Robin—on a stem—
So I am hearing him, I'll dream,
And when the Orchards stop their tune—
Put my pretense—away—
Say if it's really—warm at noon—
Whether it's Buttercups—that "skim"—
Or Butterflies—that "bloom"?
Then—skip—the frost—upon the lea—
And skip the Russet—on the tree—
Let's play those—never come!
But all this while, where's he whose golden rays
Drives night away and beautifies our days?
Where's he whose goodly face doth warm and heal,
And show us what the darksome nights conceal?
Where's he that thaws our ice, drives cold away?
Let's have him, or we care not for the day.
Thus 'tis with who partakers are of grace,
There's nought to them like their Redeemer's face.
Memory of sun seeps from the heart.
Grass grows yellower.
Faintly if at all the early snowflakes
Hover, hover.
Water becoming ice is slowing in
The narrow channels.
Nothing at all will happen here again,
Will ever happen.
Against the sky the willow spreads a fan
The silk's torn off.
Maybe it's better I did not become
Your wife.
Memory of sun seeps from the heart.
What is it? -- Dark?
Perhaps! Winter will have occupied us
In the night.
The Moon with finely chiselled face
awoke to see his ancient foe
dress up with gold-embroidered lace
to execute her morning show.
Quickly he looked to earth, straight down
into the calmest, clearest lake.
It mirrored back his lunar frown
and made him look like patty cake.
He wondered then what folks preferred,
the choice was Moon, or else the Sun,
his vision was a little blurred,
as always when his shift was done,
when suddenly the Sun said  'Luna,
I think you're handsome and a tease,
go cover up under your doona,
it's daytime now, my little cheese.'
And Moon went to the land of dreams,
not very happy to be labelled
a dairy product, but it seems
that he became badly  disabled
in his next dream and that the Sun
had helped to warm his ailing soul.
And when it all was said and done,
the Moon was healthy, happy, whole,
and since that day they joke and tease
each dawn and dusk, foggy or hazy.
The Sun still says 'my little cheese',
but in return he calls her  'Daisy'.
Thar showed up out'n Denver in the spring uv '81
A man who'd worked with Dana on the Noo York Sun.
His name wuz Cantell Whoppers, 'nd he wuz a sight ter view
Ez he walked inter the orfice 'nd inquired fer work ter do.
Thar warn't no places vacant then,--fer be it understood,
That wuz the time when talent flourished at that altitood;
But thar the stranger lingered, tellin' Raymond 'nd the rest
Uv what perdigious wonders he could do when at his best,
Till finally he stated (quite by chance) that he hed done
A heap uv work with Dana on the Noo York Sun.
Wall, that wuz quite another thing; we owned that ary cuss
Who'd worked f'r Mr. Dana must be good enough fer us!
And so we tuk the stranger's word 'nd nipped him while we could,
For if we didn't take him we knew John Arkins would;
And Cooper, too, wuz mouzin' round fer enterprise 'nd brains,
Whenever them commodities blew in across the plains.
At any rate we nailed him, which made ol' Cooper swear
And Arkins tear out handfuls uv his copious curly hair;
But we set back and cackled, 'nd bed a power uv fun
With our man who'd worked with Dana on the Noo York Sun.
It made our eyes hang on our cheeks 'nd lower jaws ter drop,
Ter hear that feller tellin' how ol' Dana run his shop:
It seems that Dana wuz the biggest man you ever saw,--
He lived on human bein's, 'nd preferred to eat 'em raw!
If he hed Democratic drugs ter take, before he took 'em,
As good old allopathic laws prescribe, he allus shook 'em.
The man that could set down 'nd write like Dany never grew,
And the sum of human knowledge wuzn't half what Dana knew;
The consequence appeared to be that nearly every one
Concurred with Mr. Dana of the Noo York Sun.
This feller, Cantell Whoppers, never brought an item in,--
He spent his time at Perrin's shakin' poker dice f'r gin.
Whatever the assignment, he wuz allus sure to shirk,
He wuz very long on likker and all-fired short on work!
If any other cuss had played the tricks he dared ter play,
The daisies would be bloomin' over his remains to-day;
But somehow folks respected him and stood him to the last,
Considerin' his superior connections in the past.
So, when he bilked at poker, not a sucker drew a gun
On the man who 'd worked with Dana on the Noo York Sun.
Wall, Dana came ter Denver in the fall uv '83.
A very different party from the man we thought ter see,--
A nice 'nd clean old gentleman, so dignerfied 'nd calm,
You bet yer life he never did no human bein' harm!
A certain hearty manner 'nd a fulness uv the vest
Betokened that his sperrits 'nd his victuals wuz the best;
His face wuz so benevolent, his smile so sweet 'nd kind,
That they seemed to be the reflex uv an honest, healthy mind;
And God had set upon his head a crown uv silver hair
In promise uv the golden crown He meaneth him to wear.
So, uv us boys that met him out'n Denver, there wuz none
But fell in love with Dana uv the Noo York Sun.
But when he came to Denver in that fall uv '83,
His old friend Cantell Whoppers disappeared upon a spree;
The very thought uv seein' Dana worked upon him so
(They hadn't been together fer a year or two, you know),
That he borrered all the stuff he could and started on a bat,
And, strange as it may seem, we didn't see him after that.
So, when ol' Dana hove in sight, we couldn't understand
Why he didn't seem to notice that his crony wa'n't on hand;
No casual allusion, not a question, no, not one,
For the man who'd "worked with Dana on the Noo York Sun!"
We broke it gently to him, but he didn't seem surprised,
Thar wuz no big burst uv passion as we fellers had surmised.
He said that Whoppers wuz a man he 'd never heerd about,
But he mought have carried papers on a Jarsey City route;
And then he recollected hearin' Mr. Laffan say
That he'd fired a man named Whoppers fur bein' drunk one day,
Which, with more likker underneath than money in his vest,
Had started on a freight-train fur the great 'nd boundin' West,
But further information or statistics he had none
Uv the man who'd "worked with Dana on the Noo York Sun."
We dropped the matter quietly 'nd never made no fuss,--
When we get played for suckers, why, that's a horse on us!--
But every now 'nd then we Denver fellers have to laff
To hear some other paper boast uv havin' on its staff
A man who's "worked with Dana," 'nd then we fellers wink
And pull our hats down on our eyes 'nd set around 'nd think.
It seems like Dana couldn't be as smart as people say,
If he educates so many folks 'nd lets 'em get away;
And, as for us, in future we'll be very apt to shun
The man who "worked with Dana on the Noo York Sun."
But bless ye, Mr. Dana! may you live a thousan' years,
To sort o' keep things lively in this vale of human tears;
An' may I live a thousan', too,--a thousan' less a day,
For I shouldn't like to be on earth to hear you'd passed away.
And when it comes your time to go you'll need no Latin chaff
Nor biographic data put in your epitaph;
But one straight line of English and of truth will let folks know
The homage 'nd the gratitude 'nd reverence they owe;
You'll need no epitaph but this: "Here sleeps the man who run
That best 'nd brightest paper, the Noo York Sun."
See that golden hue
Burning in the west
My dreams are with that color
My dreams are the sun
The sun always sets
But never seems to rise
That sun carries my dreams
Slowly out of my reach
I watch it slide away
Leaving me behind
The color disappears
My dreams are with that sun
Whenever the sun sets
It rises in another place
A place blessed by that light
My dreams are hidden in that light
At my window seat
I watch the sun take it all away
My dreams are with the sun
My dreams are the sun
They say her words were like balloons
with strings I could not hold,
that her love was something in a shop
cheap and far too quickly sold;
but the tree does not price its apples
nor the sun its selling power
the rain does not gossip
or speak of where it goes.
What, hast thou run thy race, art going down?
Thou seemest angry, why dost on us frown?
Yea, wrap thy head with clouds and hide thy face,
As threatening to withdraw from us thy grace?
O leave us not! When once thou hid'st thy head,
Our horizon with darkness will be spread.
Tell who hath thee offended, turn again.
Alas! too late, intreaties are in vain.
Comparison.
Our gospel has had here a summer's day,
But in its sunshine we, like fools, did play;
Or else fall out, and with each other wrangle,
And did, instead of work, not much but jangle.
And if our sun seems angry, hides his face,
Shall it go down, shall night possess this place?
Let not the voice of night birds us afflict,
And of our misspent summer us convict.
Oh day of fire and sun,
Pure as a naked flame,
Blue sea, blue sky and dun
Sands where he spoke my name;
Laughter and hearts so high
That the spirit flew off free,
Lifting into the sky
Diving into the sea;
Oh day of fire and sun
Like a crystal burning,
Slow days go one by one,
But you have no returning.
Sun over dark trees;
Sun rising over the black;
Sun and blueness, BLISS!
This day is a special one;
This perfect day, is like A  KISS!
This is another wonderful day!
One Sun, keeps us warm;
One Sun is needed to be;
One Sun will suffice, to see!
Only because of the sun;
Only that prevents our demise;
Only our Sun, maintains us all!
;
Look, look, brave Sol doth peep up from beneath,
Shows us his golden face, doth on us breathe;
He also doth compass us round with glories,
Whilst he ascends up to his highest stories.
Where he his banner over us displays,
And gives us light to see our works and ways.
Nor are we now, as at the peep of light,
To question, is it day, or is it night?
The night is gone, the shadows fled away,
And we now most sure are that it is day.
Our eyes behold it, and our hearts believe it;
Nor can the wit of man in this deceive it.
And thus it is when Jesus shows his face,
And doth assure us of his love and grace.
O SUN of real peace! O hastening light!
O free and extatic! O what I here, preparing, warble for!
O the sun of the world will ascend, dazzling, and take his height--
and you too, O my Ideal, will surely ascend!
O so amazing and broad--up there resplendent, darting and burning!
O vision prophetic, stagger'd with weight of light! with pouring
glories!
O lips of my soul, already becoming powerless!
O ample and grand Presidentiads! Now the war, the war is over!
New history! new heroes! I project you!
Visions of poets! only you really last! sweep on! sweep on!
O heights too swift and dizzy yet!                                 10
O purged and luminous! you threaten me more than I can stand!
(I must not venture--the ground under my feet menaces me--it will not
support me:
O future too immense,)--O present, I return, while yet I may, to you.
This sun was mine and yours; we shared it.
Who's suffering behind the golden silk, who's dying?
A woman beating her dry breasts cried out; `Cowards,
they've taken my children and torn them to shreds, you've
killed them
gazing at the fire-flies at dusk with a strange look,
lost in blind thought.'
The blood was drying on a hand that a tree made green,
a warrior was asleep clutching the lance that cast light
against his side.
It was ours, this sun, we saw nothing behind the gold
embroidery
then the messengers came, dirty and breathless,
stuttering unintelligible words
twenty days and nights on the barren earth with thorns only
twenty days and nights feeling the bellies of the horses
bleering
and not a moment's break to drink rain-water.
You told them to rest first and then to speak, the light had
dazzled you.
They died saying `We don't have time', touching some rays
of the sun.
You'd forgotten that no one rests.
A woman howled `Cowards'. like a dog in the night.
Once she would have been beautiful like you
with the wet mouth, veins alive beneath the skin,
with love.
This sun is ours; you kept all of it, you wouldn't follow
me.
And it was then I found about those things behind the
gold and the silk:
we don't have time. The messengers were right
sun goes on shining
while the debbil beats his wife
blues played lefthanded
topsy-turvy inside out
under the weather
down by the sea
a broke johnny walker
mister meaner
bigger than a big man
cirrus as a heart attracts
more power than a loco motive
think your shit don't stink
edge against a wall
wearing your colors
soulfully worn out
stylishly distressed
Pale morning sun that rises in the east,
Spread wide your light,
And let the warming blush be thus increased,
To shine more bright.
Welcome the dawn and so enhance the sky,
With colours that unite,
A vision there displayed, food for the eye,
Quick changing sight.
A new day now unfolds, and in its glow,
The scene is quite
Breathtaking. Subtle shades soft and mellow,
Just fine and right.
Pale morning sun, that rises, burn more strong,
And so invite,
Nature to call awake the melody of birdsong,
From out the night.
Pink-edged clouds,
sunset sun.
Bedimming light.
New night begun.
Fortell, what new wonders,
have come to pass?
A new child born,
a new blade of grass?
What things anew,
will there be?
New wonders fathomed,
from the life-giving sea?
Hued pink-edged clouds.
Low sunset sun.
Bedim thy light.
Still, you are not done.
Because, for from thy union,
'tis lucid, sure as dawn will be,
that Life blossoms forth,
from your simplicity...
Freer
than most birds
an eagle flies up
over San Francisco
freer than most places
soars high up
floats and glides high up
in the still
open spaces
flown from the mountains
floated down
far over ocean
where the sunset has begun
a mirror of itself
He sails high over
turning and turning
where seaplanes might turn
where warplanes might burn
He wheels about burning
in the red sun
climbs and glides
and doubles back upon himself
now over ocean
now over land
high over pinwheels suck in sand
where a rollercoaster used to stand
soaring eagle setting sun
All that is left of our wilderness
Set me whereas the sun doth parch the green
Or where his beams do not dissolve the ice,
In temperate heat where he is felt and seen;
In presence prest of people, mad or wise;
Set me in high or yet in low degree,
In longest night or in the shortest day,
In clearest sky or where clouds thickest be,
In lusty youth or when my hairs are gray.
Set me in heaven, in earth, or else in hell;
In hill, or dale, or in the foaming flood;
Thrall or at large, alive whereso I dwell,
Sick or in health, in evil fame or good:
Hers will I be, and only with this thought
Content myself although my chance be nought.
She stood against the Orient sun,
Her face inscrutable for light;
A myriad larks in unison
Sang o'er her, soaring out of sight.
A myriad flowers around her feet
Burst flame-like from the yielding sod,
Till all the wandering airs were sweet
With incense mounting up to God.
A mighty rainbow shook, inclined
Towards her, from the Occident,
Girdling the cloud-wrack which enshrined
Half the light-bearing firmament.
Lit showers flashed golden o'er the hills,
And trees flung silver to the breeze,
And, scattering diamonds, fleet-foot rills
Fled laughingly across the leas.
Yea, Love, the skylarks laud but thee,
And writ in flowers thine awful name;
Spring is thy shade, dread Ecstasy,
And life a brand which feeds thy flame.
My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun;
Coral is far more red than her lips' red;
If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun;
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head.
I have seen roses damasked, red and white,
But no such roses see I in her cheeks,
And in some perfumes is there more delight
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know,
That music hath a far more pleasing sound.
I grant I never saw a goddess go;
My mistress when she walks treads on the ground.
And yet, by heaven, I think my love as rare
As any she belied with false compare.
XXXII
The first time that the sun rose on thine oath
To love me, I looked forward to the moon
To slacken all those bonds which seemed too soon
And quickly tied to make a lasting troth.
Quick-loving hearts, I thought, may quickly loathe;
And, looking on myself, I seemed not one
For such man's love!—more like an out-of-tune
Worn viol, a good singer would be wroth
To spoil his song with, and which, snatched in haste,
Is laid down at the first ill-sounding note.
I did not wrong myself so, but I placed
A wrong on thee. For perfect strains may float
'Neath master-hands, from instruments defaced,—
And great souls, at one stroke, may do and doat.
808
So set its Sun in Thee
What Day be dark to me—
What Distance—far—
So I the Ships may see
That touch—how seldomly—
Thy Shore?
staring into the sun
white light
pure essence
the burning love
hypnotic fare
resolute dawn of darkness
the eyes succumb
thirst for pure water
to chill the warm blood
pumping to the charred cornea
essential will
broken by nature
made & broken
seduced by beauty
the danger of vision
i stared in wonder
til i could no more
senses flared
flaming
excruciating joy
the brilliance
incoherent, insolvable
now dead to sense
recoverable only in
the pagan ether of each new dawn
a twinge of soft light
searing the edges
of black vision
& colours remembered
sights seen
unbelievable now.
THROUGH intricate motions ran
Stream and gliding sun
And all my heart seemed gay:
Some stupid thing that I had done
Made my attention stray.
Repentance keeps my heart impure;
But what am I that dare
Fancy that I can
Better conduct myself or have more
Sense than a common man?
What motion of the sun or stream
Or eyelid shot the gleam
That pierced my body through?
What made me live like these that seem
Self-born, born anew?
Great is the sun, and wide he goes
Through empty heaven with repose;
And in the blue and glowing days
More thick than rain he showers his rays.
Though closer still the blinds we pull
To keep the shady parlour cool,
Yet he will find a chink or two
To slip his golden fingers through.
The dusty attic spider-clad
He, through the keyhole, maketh glad;
And through the broken edge of tiles
Into the laddered hay-loft smiles.
Meantime his golden face around
He bares to all the garden ground,
And sheds a warm and glittering look
Among the ivy's inmost nook.
Above the hills, along the blue,
Round the bright air with footing true,
To please the child, to paint the rose,
The gardener of the World, he goes.
The sun seeking my shadow
My shadow hides behind me
And when i look at mad-show
The sun gazes to blind me
I watch the sun from far
The sun witnesses only earth
Yes something called bar
Seperates me and sun since birth
Yes, i want the sun to merge into me
And i could become illuminated
But sun doth not want to agree
Yes, but moon is also related
To the sun by reflecting light
I am not the moon, i know the truth
Dependance does not give light
But victory always makes bright
But victory isn't gained by fight
A loser can be victorious like me
Yes, i could not face sun's light
and by light; it could never seek me...
04-10-2005
The sun got up and saw the moon.
'Why  are you out of bed so soon? '
'It is because a moon's required
to light the way when you've retired
into your bed to rest your rays,
I do not like to work on days.'
'I'm glad to see you my dear cheese
to tell you of my ailing knees
and in  the Springtime I will quit
and you can handle all this shit.'
the sun
when you
close your eyes
massages your darkness
the moon
a plate
to collect
the realm of darkness
that the sun
exposes
Sun and Moon
Wishful lovers
Never touch
Languish in silence
Throughout space & time.
She, a fiery siren,
Shines out light,
Passionate love
Towards the object
Of her affection.
And he, the blue moon,
Desiring her caress
Casts his gaze
Upon her visage.
Yet both must find
Permanent satisfaction
With at best and most
Merely the reflection
Of her incandescence
Off his exquisite face.
As I look from the isle, o'er its billows of green,
To the billows of foam-crested blue,
Yon bark, that afar in the distance is seen,
Half dreaming, my eyes will pursue:
Now dark in the shadow, she scatters the spray
As the chaff in the stroke of the flail;
Now white as the sea-gull, she flies on her way,
The sun gleaming bright on her sail.
Yet her pilot is thinking of dangers to shun,--
Of breakers that whiten and roar;
How little he cares, if in shadow or sun
They see him who gaze from the shore!
He looks to the beacon that looms from the reef,
To the rock that is under his lee,
As he drifts on the blast, like a wind-wafted leaf,
O'er the gulfs of the desolate sea.
Thus drifting afar to the dim-vaulted caves
Where life and its ventures are laid,
The dreamers who gaze while we battle the waves
May see us in sunshine or shade;
Yet true to our course, though the shadows grow dark,
We'll trim our broad sail as before,
And stand by the rudder that governs the bark,
Nor ask how we look from the shore!
(for Kwame)
1
It is mid-afternoon now,
the sun streaks slant wards
through the attic's double-glazing
melting the scorched ink
in my crowded note-book
that lies blanched
on the sparse weathered table.
Hardened sepia-stained lines
that once approximated to
a flock of metaphors,
now rearrange themselves
into a congregation of phrases,
a lineation of new line-breaks:
stops that defy
even the physics of refraction,
thoughts that now re-surface
and resurrect just as
passion and reverence did
within the folds of The Prophet.
2
It is still mid-afternoon,
the blue blaze makes the pages
of my book flip over gently
in the invisible wind of silence.
The heat penetrating the glass
focuses even more fiercely
smoking out redolent similes,
questioning the whole point,
the nib of writing itself.
Underneath the permanent scar
of jet-black fluid and heat
is pulp, half-dead.
Beneath the persistent hoarse-
drone of metal-scratching
is bleached pulp, half-alive,
its cotton laid sheets
carefully encoded with
the magic arc of a gold-tip.
Words appear, and more
words. And under them all,
I discover much later,
a small spring insect
that lay mummified,
quietly crushed below
the weight of words,
its innocence and juice
trapped under oppression
of ambition and intellect,
baptised and bloodied.
3
It is mid-afternoon,
and I too lie, dead-
still, blanched, bloodied.
Sun of my soul, Thou Savior dear,
It is not night if Thou be near;
O may no earthborn cloud arise
To hide Thee from Thy servant’s eyes.
When the soft dews of kindly sleep
My wearied eyelids gently steep,
Be my last thought, how sweet to rest
Forever on my Savior’s breast.
Abide with me from morn till eve,
For without Thee I cannot live;
Abide with me when night is nigh,
For without Thee I dare not die.
If some poor wandering child of Thine
Has spurned today the voice Divine,
Now, Lord, the gracious work begin;
Let him no more lie down in sin.
Watch by the sick, enrich the poor
With blessings from Thy boundless store;
Be every mourner’s sleep tonight,
Like infants’ slumbers, pure and right.
Come near and bless us when we wake,
Ere through the world our way we take,
Till in the ocean of Thy love
We lose ourselves in heaven above.
Sun of the sleepless! melancholy star!
Whose tearful beam glows tremulously far,
That show'st the darkness thou canst not dispel,
How like art thou to joy remember'd well!
So gleams the past, the light of other days,
Which shines, but warms not with its powerless rays;
A night-beam Sorrow watcheth to behold,
Distinct but distant -- clear -- but, oh how cold!
ANGEL, king of streaming morn;
Cherub, call'd by Heav'n to shine;
T' orient tread the waste forlorn;
Guide aetherial, pow'r divine;
Thou, Lord of all within!
Golden spirit, lamp of day,
Host, that dips in blood the plain,
Bids the crimson'd mead be gay,
Bids the green blood burst the vein;
Thou, Lord of all within!
Soul, that wraps the globe in light;
Spirit, beckoning to arise;
Drives the frowning brow of night,
Glory bursting o'er the skies;
Thou, Lord of all within!
Write this. We have burned all their villages
Write this. We have burned all the villages and the people in them
Write this. We have adopted their customs and their manner of dress
Write this. A word may be shaped like a bed, a basket of tears or an X
In the notebook it says, It is the time of mutations, laughter at jokes,
secrets beyond the boundaries of speech
I now turn to my use of suffixes and punctuation, closing Mr. Circle
with a single stroke, tearing the canvas from its wall, joined to her,
experiencing the same thoughts at the same moment, inscribing
them on a loquat leaf
Write this. We have begun to have bodies, a now here and a now
gone, a past long ago and one still to come
Let go of me for I have died and am in a novel and was a lyric poet,
certainly, who attracted crowds to mountaintops. For a nickel I will
appear from this box. For a dollar I will have text with you and
answer three questions
First question. We entered the forest, followed its winding paths, and
emerged blind
Second question. My townhouse, of the Jugendstil, lies by
Darmstadt
Third question. He knows he will wake from this dream, conducted
in the mother-tongue
Third question. He knows his breathing organs are manipulated by
God, so that he is compelled to scream
Third question. I will converse with no one on those days of the week
which end in y
Write this. There is pleasure and pain and there are marks and signs.
A word may be shaped like a fig or a pig, an effigy or an egg
but
there is only time for fasting and desire, device and design, there is
only time to swerve without limbs, organs or face into a
scientific
silence, pinhole of light
Say this. I was born on an island among the dead. I learned language
on this island but did not speak on this island. I am writing to you
from this island. I am writing to the dancers from this island. The
writers do not dance on this island
Say this. There is a sentence in my mouth, there is a chariot in my
mouth. There is a ladder. There is a lamp whose light fills empty
space and a space which swallows light
A word is beside itself. Here the poem is called What Speaking Means
to Say
though I have no memory of my name
Here the poem is called Theory of the Real, its name is Let's Call This,
and its name is called A Wooden Stick. It goes yes-yes, no-no. It goes
one and one
I have been writing a book, not in my native language, about violins
and smoke, lines and dots, free to speak and become the things we
speak, pages which sit up, look around and row resolutely toward
the setting sun
Pages torn from their spines and added to the pyre, so that they will
resemble thought
Pages which accept no ink
Pages we've never seen--first called Narrow Street, then Half a
Fragment, Plain of Jars or Plain of Reeds, taking each syllable in her
mouth, shifting position and passing it to him
Let me say this. Neak Luong is a blur. It is Tuesday in the hardwood
forest. I am a visitor here, with a notebook
The notebook lists My New Words and Flag above White. It claims
to have no inside
only characters like A-against-Herself, B, C, L and
N, Sam, Hans Magnus, T. Sphere, all speaking in the dark with their
hands
G for Gramsci or Goebbels, blue hills, cities, cities with hills,
modern and at the edge of time
F for alphabet, Z for A, an H in
an arbor, shadow, silent wreckage, W or M among stars
What last. Lapwing. Tesseract. X perhaps for X. The villages are
known as These Letters--humid, sunless. The writing occurs on
their walls
Sun, sun,
divine Ra-Helios,
you delight
the hearts of kings and heroes,
sacred horses neigh to you,
in Heliopolis they sing hymns to you;
when you shine,
lizards crawl out onto rocks
and boys go laughing
to swim in the Nile.
Sun, sun,
I am a pale scribbler,
a library recluse,
but I love you, sun, no less
than a tanned sailor
smelling of fish and salt water,
and no less
than his accustomed heart
rejoices
at your royal rising
from the ocean,
my heart trembles,
when your dusty, but flaming ray
slips
through the narrow window by the ceiling
onto my filled page
and my thin, yellowish hand,
writing out in vermilion
the first letter of a hymn to you,
O Ra-Helios sun!
Sun sun sun
Rising sun  the creator
Mid day blazing sun the destroyer Rudra
Setting sun the maintainer and continuance
Greatest of all
Sun sun sun.
The sun is invoked
For getting rid of diseases
For wisdom
For salvation
For wealth
For fire.
When your rationale for going to war
turns out to be false,
claim that you would have
gone to war anyway.
If critics question your rationale,
label them liberals and question their patriotism.
When one of your aides
is found to have been particularly vocal
about the nonexistent threat,
promote her to Secretary of State.
When poor intelligence leads you into war,
award a medal of honor to the intelligence chief.
When one of your aides is found to have
provided written support for torturing prisoners of war,
promote him to Attorney General.
(Also claim that they were not technically “prisoners of war, ”
so you can treat them however you want.)
Ignore important global institutions
in order to teach your enemy that
he cannot ignore important global institutions.
If critics question this hypocrisy,
claim that they are supporting the enemy leader.
Make sure you have allies in your war so that
you can call the troops “coalition forces, ”
even if 95% of the “allies” are offering only token troops.
If critics question whether you have a true coalition,
claim that the critics are besmirching the good names
of those allied countries.
If your major allies refuse to join you in the war,
ridicule them, boycott them, call them old-fashioned,
and claim that they have ulterior motives.
But be sure to praise them when you crawl back to them
to ask for money to help pay for rebuilding.
When the war is becoming far more expensive than anticipated,
point out that the cost is only a fraction of the nation’s GDP.
Of course, when you want to cut the funding for a social program,
simply claim that it is too expensive
regardless of it’s miniscule share of the GDP.
Always be dismissive of the critics of your war.
No matter what they say,
label them liberals and question their patriotism.
Claim that if they disagree with you,
then by definition they are on the side of the enemy.
You must paint them as being unsupportive of the troops
even though their objective is to save the lives of the troops.
If your critics wave the nation’s flag,
you must wave it even more.
Suggest that since you believe Jesus to be your savior,
then by definition you cannot make errors in moral judgment
and thus the war is morally correct.
Never apologize.
You have nothing to apologize for.
Never admit mistakes
They are not mistakes if you don’t recognize them as such.
999
Superfluous were the Sun
When Excellence be dead
He were superfluous every Day
For every Day be said
That syllable whose Faith
Just saves it from Despair
And whose "I'll meet You" hesitates
If Love inquire "Where"?
Upon His dateless Fame
Our Periods may lie
As Stars that drop anonymous
From an abundant sky.
Beautiful Sun! with thy golden rays,
To God, the wise Creator, be all praise;
For thou nourisheth all the creation,
Wherever there is found to be animation.
Without thy heat we could not live,
Then praise to God we ought to give;
For thou makest the fruits and provisions to grow,
To nourish all creatures on earth below.
Thou makest the hearts of the old feel glad,
Likewise the young child and the lad,
And the face of Nature to look green and gay,
And the little children to sport and play.
Thou also givest light unto the Moon,
Which certainly is a very great boon
To all God's creatures here below,
Throughout the world where'er they go.
How beautiful thou look'st on a summer morn,
When thou sheddest thy effulgence among the yellow corn,
Also upon lake, and river, and the mountain tops,
Whilst thou leavest behind the most lovely dewdrops!
How beautiful thou seem'st in the firmament above,
As I gaze upon thee, my heart fills with love
To God, the great Creator, Who has placed thee there,
Who watches all His creatures with an eye of care!
Thou makest the birds to sing on the tree,
Also by meadow, mountain, and lea;
And the lark high poised up in air,
Carolling its little song with its heart free from care.
Thou makest the heart of the shepherd feel gay
As he watches the little lambkins at their innocent play;
While he tends them on the hillside all day,
Taking care that none of them shall go astray.
Thou cheerest the weary traveller while on his way
During the livelong summer day,
As he admires the beautiful scenery while passing along,
And singing to himself a stave of a song.
Thou cheerest the tourist while amongst the Highland hills,
As he views their beautiful sparkling rills
Glittering like diamonds by the golden rays,
While the hills seem to offer up to God their praise.
While the bee from flower to flower does roam
To gather honey, and carry it home;
While it hums its little song in the beautiful sunshine,
And seemingly to thank the Creator divine --
For the honey it hath gathered during the day,
In the merry month of May,
When the flowers are in full bloom,
Also the sweet honeysuckle and the broom.
How beautiful thy appearance while setting in the west,
Whilst encircled with red and azure, 'tis then thou look'st best!
Then let us all thank God for thy golden light
In our prayers every morning and night!
Wherever the Catholic sun doth shine,
There’s always laughter and good red wine.
At least I’ve always found it so.
Benedicamus Domino!
106
The Daisy follows soft the Sun—
And when his golden walk is done—
Sits shyly at his feet—
He—waking—finds the flower there—
Wherefore—Marauder—art thou here?
Because, Sir, love is sweet!
We are the Flower—Thou the Sun!
Forgive us, if as days decline—
We nearer steal to Thee!
Enamored of the parting West—
The peace—the flight—the Amethyst—
Night's possibility!
The moon still shines like that of ages old,
holding distant secrets like a tale yet to be told,
The sun in all its blinding beauty continues to lend us its rays,
enriching us with memories of those blisfull youthspent days.
The sea still massages the sandy golden shores,
passing from the sea gods ever open jaws.
The rain still travels from open blue skys,
showering the land as the sky god cries.
The wind whispers words of both hope and depair,
in hope it strokes the heads of ours so very fair,
The moon and the sun and the sea the rain and the wind,
do what they have done since time began,
yet Man, yes man has changed grown more hungry,
and in turn has robbed the earth of its enchanting energy,
Man has bombed, and slaughtered, and destroyed,
man has teased and tested and toyed.
And as i, a man am washed by the nightly visit of rain,
tears of fear fall in unsison with the cloudy droplets,
I was not meant for times like these,
i am a passer by a silent hooded journey man,
swaying in the comfort of the invisible breeze.
wanting and waiting with poetic patience,
to be taken away on the wings of timeless words.
oh!
the resplendent, red, rotund
the early morning sun
on the eastern  sea surface
or
is it a red ball left afloat
last evening
after play by urchins?
or, or,
is it a big vermillion dot
on the young forehead
of a newly wed.
-udit.26.10.2006.
THE summer sun shone round me,
The folded valley lay
In a stream of sun and odour,
That sultry summer day.
The tall trees stood in the sunlight
As still as still could be,
But the deep grass sighed and rustled
And bowed and beckoned me.
The deep grass moved and whispered
And bowed and brushed my face.
It whispered in the sunshine:
"The winter comes apace."
871
The Sun and Moon must make their haste—
The Stars express around
For in the Zones of Paradise
The Lord alone is burned—
His Eye, it is the East and West—
The North and South when He
Do concentrate His Countenance
Like Glow Worms, flee away—
Oh Poor and Far—
Oh Hindred Eye
That hunted for the Day—
The Lord a Candle entertains
Entirely for Thee—
The sun is a beach ball covered in sand,
Warming up this little land.
It's been kicked into the blue sky,
By a boy on the beach, that kicked it too high.
It races you home, wherever you may be,
Who will win, you'll have to wait and see.
The shadow by my finger cast
Divides the future from the past:
Before it, sleeps the unborn hour
In darkness, and beyond thy power:
Behind its unreturning line,
The vanished hour, no longer thine:
One hour alone is in thy hands,--
The NOW on which the shadow stands.
The sun has burst the sky
Because I love you
And the river its banks.
The sea laps the great rocks
Because I love you
And takes no heed of the moon dragging it away
And saying coldly 'Constancy is not for you'.
The blackbird fills the air
Because I love you
With spring and lawns and shadows falling on lawns.
The people walk in the street and laugh
I love you
And far down the river ships sound their hooters
Crazy with joy because I love you.
The sun has long been set,
The stars are out by twos and threes,
The little birds are piping yet
Among the bushes and the trees;
There's a cuckoo, and one or two thrushes,
And a far-off wind that rushes,
And a sound of water that gushes,
And the cuckoo's sovereign cry
Fills all the hollow of the sky.
Who would go `parading'
In London, `and masquerading',
On such a night of June
With that beautiful soft half-moon,
And all these innocent blisses?
On such a night as this is!
The sun has set, and the long grass now
Waves dreamily in the evening wind;
And the wild bird has flown from that old gray stone
In some warm nook a couch to find.
In all the lonely landscape round
I see no light and hear no sound,
Except the wind that far away
Come sighing o'er the healthy sea.
878
The Sun is gay or stark
According to our Deed.
If Merry, He is merrier—
If eager for the Dead
Or an expended Day
He helped to make too bright
His mighty pleasure suits Us not
It magnifies our Freight
The Sun is not just a special star
Huge balls of hot gases are stars spinning in space
So big so hot and giving heat and light to the Earth
Larger than one million Earths is the Shining Sun in front of our face.
We must never look directly at the Sun
Cos it's not fun its brightness will damage the eyes
The Sun gives lives to all creatures on Earth
To all births, animals, human beings n natures when Sun shines
The stars shine all the time day and night
The Sun's so bright, it hides the light of the other stars
With a steady light's broken up as it passes through the Earth's atmosphere
Oh my dear, how beautiful they look, sparkle twinkle little stars.
The Earth spins or rotates on its axis
In geographic, we have...night and day, who wonder how?
The axis is an...imaginary line, going through the centre of the Earth
Taking 24 hours at once for the Earth to spin around.
At night, one side of the Earth moves away from the Sun
That part is the darkness..as the sun seems to sink below
Look at the horizon, the darkness is starting filling the dawn sky
With the rich dark beautiful colours, changing to night time very very slow.
232
The Sun—just touched the Morning—
The Morning—Happy thing—
Supposed that He had come to dwell—
And Life would all be Spring!
She felt herself supremer—
A Raised—Ethereal Thing!
Henceforth—for Her—What Holiday!
Meanwhile—Her wheeling King—
Trailed—slow—along the Orchards—
His haughty—spangled Hems—
Leaving a new necessity!
The want of Diadems!
The Morning—fluttered—staggered—
Felt feebly—for Her Crown—
Her unanointed forehead—
Henceforth—Her only One!
692
The Sun kept setting—setting—still
No Hue of Afternoon—
Upon the Village I perceived
From House to House 'twas Noon—
The Dusk kept dropping—dropping—still
No Dew upon the Grass—
But only on my Forehead stopped—
And wandered in my Face—
My Feet kept drowsing—drowsing—still
My fingers were awake—
Yet why so little sound—Myself
Unto my Seeming—make?
How well I knew the Light before—
I could see it now—
'Tis Dying—I am doing—but
I'm not afraid to know—
152
The Sun kept stooping—stooping—low!
The Hills to meet him rose!
On his side, what Transaction!
On their side, what Repose!
Deeper and deeper grew the stain
Upon the window pane—
Thicker and thicker stood the feet
Until the Tyrian
Was crowded dense with Armies—
So gay, so Brigadier—
That I felt martial stirrings
Who once the Cockade wore—
Charged from my chimney corner—
But Nobody was there!
Once more the cauldron of the sun
Smears the bookcase with winy red,
And here my page is, and there my bed,
And the apple-tree shadows travel along.
Soon their intangible track will be run,
And dusk grow strong
And they have fled.
Yes: now the boiling ball is gone,
And I have wasted another day....
But wasted--wasted, do I say?
Is it a waste to have imagined one
Beyond the hills there, who, anon,
My great deeds done,
Will be mine alway?
I wait for the Day -
My Dear Friend,
When you and me
Together,
Holding hands of
Each other,
Will be able to see
The Sun Rising
And The Sun
Setting...
At Our End.
The sun shines very brightly.
When cluds are not covering it.
The sun is yellow.
The sun comes up in the morning. The sun shines during the day.
The sun has rays.
Which are called Sun Rays.
The Sun Rays are also known as Heat Waves.
The sun rays in your eye,
The love you’re giving that I have found;
Like sun that shines though the sky,
Each love must be worth and sound.
The sun that shines each day,
The love you gave from your heart;
What matter what we do or say,
Never let it depart.
Each heart is broken only once
And never grows from sorrow,
Let there never be no bygones
Not today nor tomorrow.
Sun rays oh sun rays
Never hide behind a cloud,
Sun rays all my days
That's what love's all about;
Give me no raining shower thought,
Nor glimpse of shadows I've caught.
On each star brightening night
When only flickering light is around,
I wish you'd hold me so tight
My fright could surely be drowned;
The sun rays the feeling of touch
Each love is not made of stone,
You know I love you so much
Oh never let me be here alone.
Each heart is broken only once
And never grows from sorrow,
Let there never be no bygones
Not today nor tomorrow.
Sun rays oh sun rays
Never hide behind a cloud,
Sun rays all my days
That's what love's all about;
Give me no raining shower thought,
Nor glimpse of shadows I've caught.
Sun rays oh sun rays
There are many turning ways,
Let’s give future to all
Before it returns to the haze;
Give me no answer: perhaps or not,
Tomorrow you may have forgot.
Sun rays oh sun rays
Sun brightening rays oh sun rays.
Sun rays oh sun rays
Never hide behind a cloud,
Sun rays all my days
That's what love's all about;
Give me no raining shower thought,
Nor glimpse of shadows I've caught.
Sun rays oh sun rays
Never hide behind a cloud,
Sun rays...
Where did the sun go?
Somewhere we will never know
Where is the sun?
Did it run away from you and me?
Without it you and I cant see
Sadness now exists
Our nightmares are at our reach
Where is the sun?
Now my days are colder
Will the clouds love forever in my life?
Cause I dont want to live this way
I'll chase the sun if O decided to run
I'll chase the sun but will the sun know it's me
longing to keep
The sun, come back
Busy old fool, unruly Sun,
Why dost thou thus,
Through windows, and through curtains, call on
us?
Must to thy motions lovers' seasons run?
Saucy pedantic wretch, go chide
Late schoolboys, and sour prentices,
Go tell court-huntsmen that the king will ride,
Call country ants to harvest offices,
Love, all alike, no season knows, nor clime,
Nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of
time.
Thy beams, so reverend and strong
Why shouldst thou think?
I could eclipse and cloud them with a wink,
But that I would not lose her sight so long:
If her eyes have not blinded thine,
Look, and tomorrow late, tell me
Whether both the'Indias of spice and mine
Be where thou leftst them, or lie here with me.
Ask for those kings whom thou saw'st yesterday,
And thou shalt hear: 'All here in one bed lay.'
She'is all states, and all princes I,
Nothing else is.
Princes do but play us; compar'd to this,
All honour's mimic, all wealth alchemy.
Thou, sun, art half as happy'as we,
In that the world's contracted thus;
Thine age asks ease, and since thy duties be
To warm the world, that's done in warming us.
Shine here to us, and thou art everywhere;
This bed thy centre is, these walls, thy sphere.
"The sun says his prayers," said the fairy,
Or else he would wither and die.
"The sun says his prayers," said the fairy,
"For strength to climb up through the sky.
He leans on invisible angels,
And Faith is his prop and his rod.
The sky is his crystal cathedral.
And dawn is his altar to God."
The sun sets in molten gold.
The evening clouds form a jade disk.
Where is he?
Dense white mist envelops the willows.
A sad flute plays “Falling Plum Blossoms.”
How many Spring days are left now?
This Feast of Lanterns should be joyful.
The weather is calm and lovely.
But who can tell if it
Will be followed by wind and rain?
There is the sun
Who wakes me up for another day
That brightens each and every day
There is shine
Who shines so bright in the evening sky
That keeps me dreaming of better tomorrows
Then there is the light of my life
Who is always there when I am down
That has this gift of lighting the way
Without these three
I could not be
This is the sun, the shine
And the light of my life
This could only be my family
Who always brightens my life
With every passing day
The sun is not a-bed, when I
At night upon my pillow lie;
Still round the earth his way he takes,
And morning after morning makes.
While here at home, in shining day,
We round the sunny garden play,
Each little Indian sleepy-head
Is being kissed and put to bed.
And when at eve I rise from tea,
Day dawns beyond the Atlantic Sea;
And all the children in the west
Are getting up and being dressed.
An ingenuity too astonishing
to be quite fortuitous is
this bog full of sundews, sphagnum-
lines and shaped like a teacup.
A step
down and you're into it; a
wilderness swallows you up:
ankle-, then knee-, then midriff-
to-shoulder-deep in wetfooted
understory, an overhead
spruce-tamarack horizon hinting
you'll never get out of here.
But the sun
among the sundews, down there,
is so bright, an underfoot
webwork of carnivorous rubies,
a star-swarm thick as the gnats
they're set to catch, delectable
double-faced cockleburs, each
hair-tip a sticky mirror
afire with sunlight, a million
of them and again a million,
each mirror a trap set to
unhand believing,
that either
a First Cause said once, 'Let there
be sundews,' and there were, or they've
made their way here unaided
other than by that backhand, round-
about refusal to assume responsibility
known as Natural Selection.
But the sun
underfoot is so dazzling
down there among the sundews,
there is so much light
in that cup that, looking,
you start to fall upward.
The sun was slumbering in the West,
My daily labors past;
On Anna's soft and gentle breast
My head reclined at last;
The darkness closed around, so dear
To fond congenial souls,
And thus she murmur'd at my ear,
"My love, we're out of coals!
"That Mister Bond has call'd again,
Insisting on his rent;
And all the Todds are coming up
To see us, out of Kent --
I quite forgot to tell you John
Has had a tipsy fall --
I'm sure there's something going on
WIth that vile Mary Hall!
"Miss Bell has bought the sweetest silk,
And I have bought the rest --
Of course, if we go out of town,
Southend will be the best.
I really think the Jones's house
Would be the thing for us;
I think I told you Mrs. Pope
Had parted with her hus --
"Cook , by the way, came up today,
To bid me suit myself --
And what d'ye think? The rats have gnaw'd
The victuals on the shelf,
And, lord! there's such a letter come,
Inviting you to fight!
Of course you don't intend to go --
God bless you, dear, good night!"
and the sun wields mercy
but like a jet torch carried to high,
and the jets whip across its sight
and rockets leap like toads,
and the boys get out the maps
and pin-cushion the moon,
old green cheese,
no life there but too much on earth:
our unwashed India boys
crossing their legs,playing pipes,
starving with sucked in bellies,
watching the snakes volute
like beautiful women in the hungry air;
the rockets leap,
the rockets leap like hares,
clearing clump and dog
replacing out-dated bullets;
the Chinese still carve
in jade,quietly stuffing rice
into their hunger, a hunger
a thousand years old,
their muddy rivers moving with fire
and song, barges, houseboats
pushed by drifting poles
of waiting without wanting;
in Turkey they face the East
on their carpets
praying to a purple god
who smokes and laughs
and sticks fingers in their eyes
blinding them, as gods will do;
but the rockets are ready: peace is no longer,
for some reason,precious;
madness drifts like lily pads
on a pond circling senselessly;
the painters paint dipping
their reds and greens and yellows,
poets rhyme their loneliness,
musicians starve as always
and the novelists miss the mark,
but not the pelican , the gull;
pelicans dip and dive, rise,
shaking shocked half-dead
radioactive fish from their beaks;
indeed, indeed, the waters wash
the rocks with slime; and on wall st.
the market staggers like a lost drunk
looking for his key; ah,
this will be a good one,by God:
it will take us back to the
sabre-teeth, the winged monkey
scrabbling in pits over bits
of helmet, instrument and glass;
a lightning crashes across
the window and in a million rooms
lovers lie entwined and lost
and sick as peace;
the sky still breaks red and orange for the
painters-and for the lovers,
flowers open as they always have
opened but covered with thin dust
of rocket fuel and mushrooms,
poison mushrooms; it's a bad time,
a dog-sick time-curtain
act 3, standing room only,
SOLD OUT, SOLD OUT, SOLD OUT again,
by god,by somebody and something,
by rockets and generals and
leaders, by poets , doctors, comedians,
by manufacturers of soup
and biscuits, Janus-faced hucksters
of their own indexterity;
I can now see now the coal-slick
contaminated fields, a snail or 2,
bile, obsidian, a fish or 3
in the shallows, an obloquy of our
source and our sight.....
has this happened before? is history
a circle that catches itself by the tail,
a dream, a nightmare,
a general's dream, a presidents dream,
a dictators dream...
can't we awaken?
or are the forces of life greater than we are?
can't we awaken? must we forever,
dear friends, die in our sleep?
Anonymous submission.
Three years she grew in sun and shower,
Then Nature said, "A lovelier flower
On earth was never sown;
This Child I to myself will take;
She shall be mine, and I will make
A Lady of my own.
"Myself will to my darling be
Both law and impulse: and with me
The Girl, in rock and plain
In earth and heaven, in glade and bower,
Shall feel an overseeing power
To kindle or restrain.
"She shall be sportive as the fawn
That wild with glee across the lawn
Or up the mountain springs;
And her's shall be the breathing balm,
And her's the silence and the calm
Of mute insensate things.
"The floating clouds their state shall lend
To her; for her the willow bend;
Nor shall she fail to see
Even in the motions of the Storm
Grace that shall mold the Maiden's form
By silent sympathy.
"The stars of midnight shall be dear
To her; and she shall lean her ear
In many a secret place
Where rivulets dance their wayward round,
And beauty born of murmuring sound
Shall pass into her face.
"And vital feelings of delight
Shall rear her form to stately height,
Her virgin bosom swell;
Such thoughts to Lucy I will give
While she and I together live
Here in this happy dell."
Thus Nature spake---The work was done---
How soon my Lucy's race was run!
She died, and left to me
This heath, this calm, and quiet scene;
The memory of what has been,
And never more will be.
The noonday sun
holds court in our galaxy
while earth spins her wheels
(5.24.06 - my first haiku)
920
We can but follow to the Sun—
As oft as He go down
He leave Ourselves a Sphere behind—
'Tis mostly—following—
We go no further with the Dust
Than to the Earthen Door—
And then the Panels are reversed—
And we behold—no more.
888
When I have seen the Sun emerge
From His amazing House—
And leave a Day at every Door
A Deed, in every place—
Without the incident of Fame
Or accident of Noise—
The Earth has seemed to me a Drum,
Pursued of little Boys
WHEN the sun comes after rain
And the bird is in the blue,
The girls go down the lane
Two by two.
When the sun comes after shadow
And the singing of the showers,
The girls go up the meadow,
Fair as flowers.
When the eve comes dusky red
And the moon succeeds the sun,
The girls go home to bed
One by one.
And when life draws to its even
And the day of man is past,
They shall all go home to heaven,
Home at last.
There you were
So distant from my life
Yet so near in my eyes
I hear your one special laugh
Yet you're weeping inside
But you're no ordinary soul
Coz you can touch someone's life (with your smile)
I know
You're heart's been badly hurt
But you still shines like the sun
In the sky
Chorus:
I wish that I could be there (and be your friend)
So you don't have to pretend (that you're okay)
if things don't feel alright (never alright)
Just let me be by your side
I'll wipe your tears dry
When the sun starts to cry
You sang a song
So full of emotions
It made everybody cry
But do they know
What lies behind your song
A sad story just like mine
I know
You ain't that strong
As they all know
But still you're here
Just to shine
A light in our sky
(Repeat Chorus)
Bridge:
You were just a stranger
I see everyday
But you gave me that warmth
I rarely feel on people
These days
But why do you need to hide
The rain beneath your clouds
You know, you don't have to pretend
When you're feeling
Down, down, down
So why don't you just look around
(Repeat Chorus)
When the sun starts to cry
(Repeat until fade)
Why, when our sun shines clearest,
Why, when our hopes seen nearest,
Why, when our life feels dearest,
Rises a secret pain—
Hope's perfect mirror broken—
Shadows of things unspoken-—
Why will not some sure token
Calm us to rest again?
Mixed with all earthly blessing
Lingers the fear distressing—
-Conscience within confessing
Nothing of ours is pure.
Still must such thoughts upbraid us,
Seeking our own to aid us;
God, not ourselves, hath made us;
Trusting in Him we’re sure.
Thus, from our sorrows gleaning
Thoughts of the world’s deep meaning,
Let us rejoice while leaning
Firm on our Father’s arm.
Now are we one for ever,
Joined so that none may sever,
Souls, so united, never
Faint through mischance or harm.
(*when a young girl ventures out for her
first class in swimming she should briefed
on consequence of body baring as well
as likely presence of paedophiles) .
a young girl went for swimming class
changed in to her new suit, surprised
at her own form and size, the aura of
her bountiful beauty and freshness that
enchanted her, went in to a world of
dream, slipped in to pool like a princess,
coach in tow who stunned and amazed
at her form and fragrance held her soft
in water in his hands, spread wide.
suddenly it seemed water is hot and
boiling, quickly they moved to change
room, where he bared her nude, it
was her curiosity and his anxiety! .
- o0o -
- -
.
Swimming against the current requires skill and practice;
If one is sent on a mission as representative of a novice,
It's like swimming on unknown water by saying something
Unknown to the inquirer who can't question anything further!
Knowing the situation, matter and forming an idea, one can
Deal with the new situation and return home by intelligence;
This is how a wise fellow can manage oneself against odd
Situation to the surprise of a novice who has sent one out!
A person of such an ability can survive anywhere in the world
Knowing unknown matter using general knowledge, presence of
Mind and common sense with the skill of some popular languages
To make all interesting by one's expression of matter new ever!
A poet is also a person of that calibre only as one cannot know
Till beginning of poem what one has to say and how one has to
Finish matter better for the interesting seeker of new knowledge
Until one has ended it well to the satisfaction of oneself and all!
When the day becomes hot and hazy
And I become tired and lazy,
All I can do is keep on reneging,
For the vast lawn needs mowing,
And the vegetable garden needs hoeing,
And work must come before swimming.
It seems that the grass has grown taller
And I get an immediate urge to holler.
Why can't I forget this awful dreaming,
That I was always on the brink of sneezing,
And constantly plagued with episodes of wheezing,
Until soothing in the water with ease in breathing?
The sun seems to quiver and know
As I think of the old swimming hole,
I rest my aching body and keep reneging,
Of course my work I am not shirking,
But it's just too hot and humid for working,
It's about time to sneak out and go swimming.
I notice the sun in the azure sky beaming
And again I catch myself dreaming,
As the perspiration continues dripping,
But my tasks have me outsmarted,
And I plod along slowly and half - hearted,
Thinking of the old gang going dipping.
I face reality and refrain from dreaming
And seek relief from the humidity with meaning,
And go to the swimming hole that is brimming.
Life is too short to constantly worry,
So why should I continue to be in a hurry?
It's summer and a time for swimming.
After having their breakfast, roaming cats played together
Some cats sat to rest while others washed their snouts with their paws
BlackPearl strolled happily around my swimming pool
While nightlight shone on flowing water surface.
Suddenly, he put his walk to a pause
He stooped and stretched out one paw as he looked down on the water.
The clear pool water became more and more inviting
He decided to have a drink to fill his stomach.
While he bent to lower his head, he exposed his rear end
Zebra came running fast and pushed him very hard into the pool.
BlackPearl swam and got out of the pool as quickly as he could
He immediately attacked Zebra because he knew who pushed him in
Fearfully, Zebra jumped over the pool fence to escape
But BlackPearl chased him closely from behind by flying over the fence.
Then two cats disappeared behind bushes
But one could hear the screaming and fighting.
Zebra returned a while later in slow motion
His posture appeared as if he felt regretting.
He sat without meowing or playing
His half-opened eyes cast a distant gaze at the sky.
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
4/26/2017
Above is the translation poem of the Vietnamese poem of NHIEN NGUYEN MD:
BLACKPEARL BỊ ĐẨY XUỐNG HỒ BƠI
Sau khi ăn sáng mèo chơi
Con nằm rửa mặt, con ngồi nghỉ ngơi
BlackPearl chơi dỡn quanh hồ
Đèn đêm rọi sáng, mặt hồ sóng lăn
Bỗng dưng nó tạm ngừng chân
Nó nhìn mặt nước, cúi đầu, với tay
Nước trong càng lúc van nài
BlackPearl quyết định phen này uống no
Trong khi đầu cúi chổng mông
Zebra chạy tới, đẩy luôn xuống hồ
BlackPearl bơi vội lên bờ
Biết ai thủ phạm, tấn công vội vàng
Zebra sợ qúa, nhẩy rào
PlackPearl chạy đuổi trổ tài phi thân
Thế rồi mèo khuất lùm cây
Nhưng nghe vọng lại cắn nhau mèo gào
Zebra trở lại hồi sau
Dáng buồn như thể ăn năn nhiều rồi
Nó ngồi chẳng nói chẳng chơi
Lim dim cặp mắt nhìn trời xa xôi.
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
4/26/17
The painting, Blind Swimming by Max Ernst, is in part his metaphorical
illustration of the process of creativity. We see a portion of a river with a very strong current, running from the top of the painting downward. An object or entity which is traveling with this currents moves swiftly and elegantly downward. Another object with a bullet-like shape is struggling and at the whim of the current. Yet anotherobject shaped like a blade of some kind is slicing its way upwards.
All afternoon I have been struggling to communicate in Italian with Roberto and Giuseppe, who have begun to resemble the two male characters in my Italian for Beginners, the ones who are always shopping or inquiring about the times of trains, and now I can hardly speak or write English.
Watching children learn how to swim, my Granddaughter
having done quite well through the years, on the top
of her level each time.
Splashing, smiles, scared faces when some go off the
diving board for the first time ever, afterwards all
of them laughing and wanting to do it again.
Swimming goose;
I am dam.
Though dabbling
Thinks me damn.
Should there be no demand
To what you can make best
You must choose one in demand,
That you can make next best.
05.04.2007
Watching my Granddaughter at her swimming lessons,
she's just awesome!
Having learned how to swim when she was a year old,
now going off the low dive and the high dive.
No fear within her, just loving the adrenaline rush,
much like her Grandma does.
Now having competitions with other kids in swimming
lessons.
She lives in her own bubble - doing what she
deems best for her budding business - trying
to ignore things irking her into impatience -
yet resentment makes her ugly in expressions
of bitterness - invariably the cause is mother's
blithely yap-yap-yap way of talking
While everybody else just wants to get on with
their lives, drinking morning coffee in silence,
planning the day, ordering the workshop and
helping clients, while she has to face the one
who controls her with a hand of steel and she
has lost the will or ability to be friendly, to
Treat others with respect, no self-control left,
no good manners or etiquette, plain straight-
forward accusations and irrational actions to
put the blame on others - everybody else is
guilty except herself, she used this kind of
assistance once - now she pays eternally for
The privilege - a situation so negative in its
extreme I don't want to get caught in it, this
driving me about since I cannot drive myself,
this getting me involved so I can take over
from her - isn't working, I do not agree with
anything, there's nothing honest or
Real, nothing true or eternal in this - the
story changes to suit the protagonists and to
draw me in - but I am swimming away…
I a'm  a bridge
colourful pain and distress flowing under me.
All cross me walking.
Screwpine flowers blossom on the river valley.
I expect come swimming and pluck all flowers.
春日放鹅河上游
出句：
春日放鹅河上游【不正师太】
对句：
冬天赏 雪风中过【不正师太】
闲时怜柳眼中过【随玉而安】
秋云追月风中散【久牛2011】
T-wentieth January morn
H-as made the day sunny;
E-vening shadows disappear,
A-s the dawn breaks early.
P-ouring rain Thursday
E-vades the Friday occasion
N-ew light is rising
A-bove the horizon.
R-emembering your birth
E-liminates the dark night;
D-elight is truly brought,
O-nce the sun denies the twilight.
N-o more mist and haze,
D-iving into the water is cool;
A-llow not yourself to sink, keep afloat in the swimming pool.
I swim in a swimming pool, this afternoon
Of which, one half is in full sun, another one half in shade.
I have cut grass and trimmed bushes the whole day.
It's a very hot summer day and sweats soaked my clothes
Water is very clear and water ripples are so inviting.
With open arms, I jump in the pool and swim continuously
There is an oak forest behind the pool.
Spring season just ended but oak leaves are still dark green.
The sun is about one half way on western sky
Its golden rays horizontally shine on cloud dogs.
Under warm, blue afternoon sky
Sad cries of a mourning dove came from afar.
06252016
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Above poem is translation poem of the Vietnamese poem of NHIEN NGUYEN MD:
CHIỀU NAY TÔI TẮM HỒ BƠI
Chiều nay tôi tắm hồ bơi
Nửa hồ đầy nắng, nửa hồ bóng râm.
Cả ngày cắt cỏ, tỉa cây
Mùa hè nóng nực, áo quần mồ hôi.
Nước trong, gợn sóng gọi mời
Giang tay tôi nhẩy, thế rồi tôi bơi.
Bên hồ có một rừng sồi
Mùa Xuân vừa hết, lá còn đậm xanh.
Mặt trời nghiêng nửa trời tây
Mây như vân cẩu nắng vàng hắt ngang.
Trời chiều, nắng ấm, vòm xanh
Tiếng buồn cu gọi từ xa vọng về.
06252016
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Swimming along,
Just keep on swimming;
Swimming in the ocean with the joy of your heart!
The ocean of love,
The ocean of peace,
With the muse of the truth;
Just keep on swimming.
It is an ocean
And it is mine
Somewhere in its depth lies my beginning
A love that has no end
For this I must swim
Through the darkness of the waters
A light shines through
The beginning of something beautiful
But then it disappears
I feel alone and lost
But I keep swimming
It's been a lifetime of comes and goes
It slowly fades or vanishes suddenly
Or it was never really there at all
I could drown in the hurt
But I keep swimming
It is always different yet the same
Always beautiful
Same falling, same love, same end
Always an end
But with an end will come a beginning
One day I'll find my beginning with no end
So I just keep swimming
Head bobbing up and down, arms and feet slapping
water, splashing it white and foamy into the air
for just a quick moment, then once again becoming
the water within the pool.
Swayed by beauty
Of Sea never swim without
Knowing depth!
I think that you should come upstairs
And drink with me,
Because there is nothing else the doctor can do:
You’ve already showed every young man in the regiment
Your tits:
The sun washed you amidst the clay-figured wild flowers
Along the battlefield,
While planes flew and plummeted:
And the peacocks grew in the shady symmetry of what
Seemed to be rainbows,
Along the cut in the valley from which the mountains grew,
And there the cliff dwellings and the ceremonies
Of the perfected virgins who could become
Stewardesses underneath the ornaments of birds of prey;
And someone said there was just a little house off in the
Forest of your hair,
Back in the elegance of this unseemly painting;
And from it a bride rode over the creek and went to school.
The buses turned and returned and the sugar cane
Flumed. The green copper cannons rolled in, and the wind
Blew;
And the beautiful girls went and then returned to their
Little houses and their tiny swimming pools all of which was
Hidden from view.
How nice to swim in sea, river, lake and pond!
Floating body, pressing water, moving forward
How nice to enjoy spattering, splashing sound!
Gesturing body, flapping wing, clapping hand,
I remember once while swimming with friend
To cross the local river to go to enjoy local band
Where we saw the singers sang hand in hand
In sweet voice, shaking body, hair, opening mind,
On the way home longitudinally in river we swam
All the while we gossiped and made lots of fun
Then we dove, caught fishes, late we returned home
Many happy did return in every sun and moon,
Now, we swim paying money in swimming pool
And in artificial lake without lily though waterful
But funless swimming, charmless time passing
Though it is a game here with heavy contesting.
© Muzahidul Reza |10/8/2016
woke this morning
with many poems
swimming in my mind
some were bragging
doing naked backstroke
up and down a pool
others were driving
swimming in a river
cool underwater moves
still others were body surfing
swimming at the beach in the sea
happy they would be, if remembered by me...
but sadly with no time
to write a line before rushing
off to work, they shall forever cease to be...
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
I saw him in the distance, as the train went speeding by,
A shivery little fellow standing in the sun to dry.
And a little pile of clothing very near him I could see:
He was owner of a gladness that had once belonged to me.
I have shivered as he shivered, I have dried the way he dried,
I've stood naked in God's sunshine with my garments at my side;
And I thought as I beheld him, of the many weary men
Who would like to go in swimming as a little boy again.
I saw him scarce a moment, yet I knew his lips were blue
And I knew his teeth were chattering just as mine were wont to do;
And I knew his merry playmates in the pond were splashing still;
I could tell how much he envied all the boys that never chill;
And throughout that lonesome journey, I kept living o'er and o'er
The joys of going swimming when no bathing suits we wore;
I was with that little fellow, standing chattering in the sun;
I was sharing in his shivers and a partner of his fun.
Back to me there came the pictures that I never shall forget
When I dared not travel homewards if my shock of hair was wet,
When I did my brief undressing under fine and friendly trees
In the days before convention rigged us up in b.v.d's.
And I dived for stones and metal on the mill pond's muddy floor,
Then stood naked in the sunshine till my blood grew warm once more.
I was back again, a youngster, in those golden days of old,
When my teeth were wont to chatter and my lips were blue with cold.
In Utopia, fools in swimming pools
Fall in and out of love
Because love belongs to bulls
Whose motivation is self satisfaction far above
Any sacrifice, any price, any advice
Given or driven by relationship advisers
Whose task in a mask or flask twice or thrice
Consists of coordinated commotion which Texan trousers
Regard without any potential placard
As fully fruitless because players
Draw damsel dividends and shoo away any simcard
They misuse to become heart slayers
Once a chance for a glance or dance is over
For a fool in wool to feel cool
That he has conquered a lover with a clover
Service in a sentimental swimming cesspool.
Some snakes are swimming in drain
And some fishes too
Right after the monsoon rain!
If you are not a good swimmer                                             Inevitably you will drown in                                               The roaring sea of the world,                                                    The deep and dark sea of the                                               World is risky and dangerous,                                                 Not anyone can swim well in                                                This large and wide sea of life,                                        There are a lot of sharks and                                             Whales spreading here and there                                            Amid a lot of other monsters,                                            In addition to that we can see                                             The scary waves of that sea                                             Move fast and beyond imagination,                                     You will drown in this big sea                                              Unless you resist and fight                                               All the fearful currents anywhere,                                       You love sea, but you don't                                              Trust it and all that belongs to it,                                                                         You like all kinds of fish and you                                         Like all kinds of sea foods that                                           Mostly come from inside the big                                            Abdomen of the pretty sea itself,                                        Even if you are an expert swimmer                                        You might drown and die easily, and                                           After all, swimming the way you                                           Want does not help all the time,                                        But you need to abide by the sea's                                            Desired or not not desired rules.
If you are not skilled or experienced enough to swim, then           You might drown even at Fares' swimming pool                         Simply because you need to get yourself                             Trained by an expert or                                              Your swimming is unwelcome anytime.
Quickly anticipating melodies and their liveliness
as they grab and take me with them into realms of
a musical reality.
Watching rivers flow past, mind swimming against
the tide, as it touches upon the harmony of life
and it's future.
Always watching, nothing interfering and all of
nature, human and otherwise, finds it's way in
exacting measures of musical interludes.
Swimming apples
I sat and he tried
-to tell me of the time
-when nature was nature
-and the hearts were kinder
"We lived there in village
-snow, farms and mountains
-and of course, big houses
-and rivers…"
-he spoke sweetly
-love his eyes when I see
-his past and family
-in his words floating, flying
Trace of home-sickness
-nostalgic with sadness
-missing past and anxious
-melancholy flavoured
"Uncle's house was called ‘Fort'
-castle-like with gardens
-of fruits, all varied
-a river in centre
-and guest house and cellars
-animals young and old…
-for milk, wool and mohair
-and meat, ride and porter…"
Everything that he said
-even talk and actions
-were sort of familiar
-seemed to be mine as well
- "Great were falls, autumns
-with the leaves gone, fallen
-and apples on trees…
-all set for breeze, wind…"
-and he was like a child
- "Danced trees to the boughs…forced apples to fall down
-and we were forbidden; had no right to catch them,
-the apples then swam in water of river…
-for neighbours and poorer…"
You Sir in your silent desire
to become a millionaire
alas prove my point also
we are today much more poorer
than then, sixty years ago
when youth was happy with just 300
and
one could save a tenner every month
Today despite the high Pension
they give
they say
one has to sell
one's woman's bangles
once he gave her six decades ago
when they were newly married
This is the whole truth
poverty will for ever stay,
add on to more population
produce more kids
add on oldies like you and me
also one may
but we will jump over theBPL line
as we did jump
a 5 foot string
high jumping at 16
both you and me
our spouses could never have seen
they want earrings of diamonds
makes PLUME
laugh today
has the spouse's mind gone astray
One may wonder
we have become mindless
so we wander
We swam the lake in mid-November
For a silly, madcap, dare.
In the distance watched a figure.
With a look of, despair.
A man's grimacing eyes watched
Fishing on the far bank
As it happens my stepfather, crotched
Legged, looking point-blank.
Pole in hand; gazing above, the rod-tip.
30 minutes, swimming the lake
One-side, only, neither one enough equip?
We'd made a big mistake.
Sure enough his glances, like the water
We're deeper than, our despair.
Soon we'd have to walk back near naked nuder
Then if our underwear, were made of mohair!
But with my best friend walking by my side
I still felt unusually warm inside...
I always believed
that the russian president
who achieved
so much in the present
would be a man
with huge intelligence
and a great human
making a difference,
but now I throw my hands in horror
and all my faith yields to sorrow
how can they build a nuclear reactor
swimming on a boat to the pole
and instead of being a protector
taking business as a destruction goal
why setting million lives in peril
just to get fossil fuels to use
where the waves might kill
by the natural abuse
what kind of weird driving element
in a money making hand
conclusion of this all
the brain is small
the greed is tall
Lagoon of swimming crocodiles
but
as tiny as sperm
glowing as yet
as the night stars that fell
on the sea's bosom.
owls that flew
through red boughs
and olive leaves
that was the sub-conscious
that was transformations
galore
that was dreaming
that was living
the other coin of life
the living
swimming in rivers
swimming in lakes
swimming at different beaches
swimming in rivers lakes beaches
fresh cool water or salt spray
different ages of sparkling me
sparks breezing far seeing eyes
behold I offer treasured experiences
in my cupped hands best experiences
wine of my lips taste distilled experiences...
A Swimmer swims one stroke at a time
Focusing all ones energy, on the finish line.
They try so hard, to keep up the pace
Eyes affixed only, on just winning the race.
God sees us swim as we stroke along
Through every prayer, we pray.
To start our mornings and end our nights
He wouldn’t have it any other way.
To focus on Heavens’ finish line
To walk the walk
Trying not to lag behind.
But if you do and seem to fall short
God is there for you
To help steer us back on course.
Clear glass like water
In it the swimming fish
Like the ideas........
Sometimes, it shows its beauty
And sometimes, its thorns.....
Sometimes, it goes into the abyss
And sometimes, it remains afloat.....
No wonder, no one can predict
Where this fish will go..?
And I took her to her first volleyball game
At my high school-
There she was,
Apiary- and brown honey at my arm:
And I wrote for her,
And swayed into her, like the moon’s sickle
From my front
Porch swing- until it didn’t have to
Pretend to be forever,
And yet it was beautiful- and from a long
Ways off threw up its arms
And headdresses and gave over all of its nations:
Into the sound of racecars
And adulterous housewives in the scrimshaw
And corrugations of the heavy metal of
Another trailer park-
While their pink breasted and younger cousins
Sunbathed and swam in the chlorine
Which attracted to them
With some small change at the bottom,
Correlating them to some form of giant goldfish
Swimming for their very own occupation
In the strangely shadow less moats of another’s
State fair.
My hopes are swimming
To search you dear God
In every direction I see
I realize the wonder more.
I know you favour me ever
You give without urging
Everything is ready here
Only I have to work to get.
Hopes swim here to connect
This vibrating mind tells
At least to get rays light
I swim in my thoughts daily.
I swim for you only in love
To get a bunch of affection
Hopes give me joy around
I remain happy with you.
In my head, alcohol and its pall for callousness call
Emboldened by froth and wrath
In a show of gangrene gall in a mall
To distort my faith and misquote my oath.
Emboldened by froth and wrath
In an atmosphere teeming with terror
To distort my faith and misquote my oath
Anger sinks into a swimming pool of error.
In an atmosphere teeming with terror
Worsened by pomp and pretence
Anger sinks into a swimming pool of error
Snapping any semblance of competence.
Worsened by pomp and pretence
In a show of gangrene gall in a mall
Snapping any semblance of competence
In my head, alcohol and its pall for callousness call.
Are you swimming in a sea of tears?
Drenched in sorrow and clothed in fears?
Ocean of lifes deep regrets
that you have not forgiven self of yet?
Swim out to shore, step on earths green of sod
give your life over to the one true man
this man named God.
Drying off with Love, your salted tears
bringing new life, to live for years.
Salt of the earth, flesh of Adam's bone
Jesus came to earth did make short a home.
He tried to teach us all how to live
to Love and always of mankind forgive.
It was a strange day.
When several honies came his way.
He was a bookworm.
And all of the sudden attention made him squirm.
But he decided that something had changed his luck.
And he will today be swimming in honies like a duck.
soul prepares spirit
for time of bonding
swimming in light
harmonic luminous light
washes over carbon senses
washes soul purity bright
anyone for swim window sea diving
dive through house blue window frame
into ripple blue sea changes inviting
a lot of thoughts to hide in dive in
in a plus green personal library chair
among a sea of book thoughts unread
stairs to the sky stars universe beyond
start with inlaid luminous ceramic tiles
yin yang in black paua shell contrasts
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
DRY
Noon's Saharan heat
sears the yellow fringe-toed sand skink.
Stinging simoom beats
sword dunes swept in serried bands.
Lizard's plunge is fleet,
swims beneath saltating tanned brink.
Sinusoidal whip's
subterranean dip.
WET
Should one chance to meet
supersaturated sand sinks,
Glide their surface sheets,
spread the body's weight, expand.
Stay unsettled feet,
float the span to countermand links.
Stirred suspensions grip,
skimmed solutions slip.
Situating circumstances in lines of priority,
following protocols that are now non-existent,
because nothing is the way it's supposed to be.
Falling down in depths of self, swimming in
painful tears, not letting go of me.
Looking forward to edges of their pools, trying
to climb ashore and leave it all behind me once
and for all.
Oh Death I am a coward
You drink an old man’s blood
So ruthless in your power
You drown us in your flood.
You leave some lonely standing
Upon the shore of life;
My request (I’m not demanding)
Take me before my wife.
But to see her lonely weeping
O'er the shadow in my bier;
Oh Death I would curse heaven
In my agony, I fear.
Swimming deep in love, it is possible to get rare pearls,
A fulfilment nothing can give in this world of uncertainty;
Love is the source for all remarkable things of great value
That are achieved by ambition inspired by love quite amazing!
To swim deep, it is like churning the milky ocean to get
Ambrosia for the long life of angel like humans in the world;
Cooperation of mutually interested souls only can take up
Such a great adventure to achieve the greatest joy unique!
Diving deep in the ocean of love, there is no fatigue or
Tiredness for the persons involved in such a love venture;
Will there be any end or failure for the players of love
Game in life that has no destination but only space journey!
Getting through the invisible slit it is possible to knock
The door of heaven leading to the milky ocean to churn to
Get the ambroisa of love that brings eternal pleasure born
Of passion lifting high to sublime state of bliss forever!
Tracks across the heavens, disappearing into clouds, no
vehicles driving upon them, only pictures in my mind.
Wanting to be up there, hanging from strings which are
embedded here and there within the sky.
Having to be content with sitting here on the ground,
still wishing to be above, playing in blue heavens and
swimming with the clouds.
got a date with destiny
words are flowing rapidly
creativity is no fantasy
Some creatures learn to stand and walk,
Some learn to swim or fly,
Some creatures learn to sing and talk,
Yet rarely question why...
But swimming isn't easy, friends,
That's why some hesitate
And so, I guess, it all depends,
If water's what you hate...
The surface may look quite serene,
Who knows what's underneath?
No wonder some aren't really keen
When they come up to breathe...
Some creatures teach their young ones well,
To build their confidence,
While others simply want to yell,
As if that, too, makes sense...
While adults know their way around,
Their young ones aren't so wise,
They raise alarms at every sound,
Greet new things with surprise...
Swimming lessons should be sublime,
Not something you must force,
So, please, be patient! Give them time...
Let new things take their course...
Denis Martindale, copyright January 2016.
A poem based on a magnificent wildlife painting,
by artist Stephen Gayford. Google search
gayfordgallery and 'Stephen Gayford poetry'.
Red corals and blue algae,
Wet sadness and swimming love
Need their own light.
Swim I Wish To
in summer not spring
in sea shores
nude as naked
we may be
I love the breeze
as it kisses me
thinking rosy cheeks are being kissed
by him
I am dim
my imagination pulls him
when can we swim?
in no bikinis
with only a smile
just lover tell me
would you love to swim with me?
The ocean is so close to me,
As if this overpass were a cradle:
The earliest stars are like her eyes to me,
And her lips an offering ladle;
The waves, they leap so far towards me,
As if they were women standing feverishly from a bath,
And the clouds the curtains half torn down,
From the sky’s impassioned aftermath,
And in the mangrove where the turtles slow,
The roots of trees her knees at rest,
The fallen leaves her scattered memory,
Flowing waywardly in the torpid currents over spilling
In the sea,
Where she goes, the rivers lead,
Where she seeps, the current swallows,
In my eyes the closest memory, through jetsam’s intercostals,
The sands are moribund and slipping along her neck,
Her breasts the dunes and hillocks,
Seabirds flight upon her breasts, and bury thistles
In her navel,
I could listen to her all day, wantonly breathing beneath
The humid skyways,
But she would not lay her eyes to me, for they are lain
Upon the vessel which strokes full steam along her memory,
And the men who walk it are white and capital;
She foams as she wreathes, pushing the porpoises
Along their bow and stern, just like little children playing
In the tub, squeaking and clean,
I guess she’ll never learn,
That when I looked upon her so long ago,
I swallowed her most entirely, and now when she leaps
Away, naked and ephemeral, I am drowning naked in her
Swaying caesuras,
Hypnotized by the epiphany of her unclothed torso,
Which flips just like a dream in an underwater midway,
First in the thirsty sky, then in the salty stream,
Jaunting fast and shallow,
She can hardly remember who I was, but she is forever
Swimming my tomorrows.
On this special Eve
I swim with my four grand kids
Under cloudy sky.
They have a good time
They enjoy talking while swimming
They race many times.
I swim on my back
So I can watch moonlit sky
And three-quarter-moon.
Silver lining clouds
Keep changing shapes and lines
Never look alike.
This is Summer time
Fire worms have dates on my yard
Frogs croak in Koi pond.
In fresh warm water
On Independence Day Eve
We have lots of fun.
NHIEN NGIUYEN MD
7/3/2017
Swimming in the swimming pool
is where I like to 'B,'
wearing underwater goggles
so that I can 'C.'
Yesterday, before I swam,
I drank a cup of 'T.'
Now the pool is just an 'ool'
because I took a 'P.'
There have been so many like U.S.
Trying to get into your dream's.
Though unlike U.S.
those extraterrestrial races still alive
have evolved and managed to survive.
Crossing infinite bridge's, bridge's
built by those other's,
benevolent bridge's they built and then left.
I have long since theorized
due to humanities self destructive way's.
Drone's are by them all they will risk.
America has shone an affinity towards making
weapon's that can kill the whole world.
Having conquered disease and illiminated old age
they can sit back and watch U.S. on T.V.
Common since would dictate if we can't learn
from them
then there are only so many mistakes we have left.
While having more money you can't spend isn't
one of them.
Unadvised children and million's of abused adult's will
never endear them to U.S. and I don't
want to be exterminated by them because of your selfishness and greed.
Either we can evolve out into the stream the stream where
it's green the dream we can choose, it is real.
Swimming is fun
you can swim in the sun
Yes swimming is fun.
You can swim at night
Even though you may just
Need a little bit of light.
You can can swim with a friend
To keep a good trend
Just swim with a friend.
When you need help
Look for a lifeguard
They can always help.
Now go ahead go swimming
Go enjoy the water
Because swimming is fun.
Do you know swimming
I am not asking as
I know you are alive
And by nature, you are a swimmer.
Now let me know
Whether you are swimming
Against the currents
And if yes, let me salute your strength.
Swimming for a healthy body
For a healthy mind
For a relaxation from problems
Swimming a beautiful experience.
To swim in the river
In the lake
Through the heavy flows
Skills to be learnt with care.
Swimming in the flood
That becomes more dangerous
In a river, overflowing water
Flood is having undercurrents.
To swim like a fish
Like a tortoise
More I liked in my childhood
But never could I achieve.
I have seen people drowned
Their corpse and the sad event
The family's hardships
Water where one must be careful.
An old man in my childhood
I have seen him swimming
In heavy flood and deep currents
Tied up empty coconuts his tool.
He was a strange and wonderful man
Having such an ability to swim
Whatever the depth and width of river
But he missed for ever
That too in such an accident he drowned.
The sand between my toes gave my standing ground;
I waded in the warm and shallow waters, soft and calm as the currentless sea.
A sudden wave plunged me into unassuming depths,
The ice cold water crept up my spine like a twining branch of thorns.
A sounding horn awoke me to the sight of a faraway ship on the infinite ocean;
A red rusted ship, who's trail of shattered water told me it was all there was..
How strange the sight of a life preserve accompanying its path as i pulled back.
The shore had been swept from under my feet to a call of more immediate urgency..
As the shards of waves carried my stillness with it
Towards the flat edge of the Earth.
i swim through this world
through two eyes,
two hands, . legs
i swim through this world
my hands, legs
and  physique
the only setbacks
i swim through this world
covered with body, air, water,
everything that you can see
and - cannot see
So soothing the warm hand
which poises, glides across
the eddies of my soul
and quiets the waters there.
Your Heart dips its oars
to my deepest depths
stirring my swimming-ness.
I open my mouth like the fish
and drink you in-
huge gulps.
I swirl inside the water-spout
and fall into the ocean-ness
where we both exist
in the quiet bliss
of our contentment.
Where in life does this ocean live-
it doesn't-it contains our life
yet itself is of an other existence.
We swim in it
grateful for the fins.
I have just drunk the waters of Changsha
And come to eat the fish of Wuchang.
Now I am swimming across the great Yangtze,
Looking afar to the open sky of Chu.
Let the wind blow and waves beat,
Better far than idly strolling in a courtyard.
Today I am at ease.
'It was by a stream that the Master said
'Thus do things flow away!' '
Sails move with the wind.
Tortoise and Snake are still.
Great plans are afoot:
A bridge will fly to span the north and south,
Turning a deep chasm into a thoroughfare;
Walls of stone will stand upstream to the west
To hold back Wushan's clouds and rain
Till a smooth lake rises in the narrow gorges.
The mountain goddess if she is still there
Will marvel at a world so changed.
I recollect the moment,
When my friends and I,
Would dive into the pond,
From the tree-branch high!
It was in my early days,
When earthly anxieties didn't touch us,
Like the free birds we were!
We would do things necessary and superfluous!
Once we let ourselves go in the pond,
We would enjoy each moment and beyond!
If anyone can not swim very well, then                                 Drowning will be inevitable                                           Simply because we can not have any fun                                With any ocean,                                                       With any sea, or                                                       With any river anytime, anywhere, and everywhere...                    Only able-bodied swimmer can manage                                   Any kind of swimming with long time experiences...                   We all love to swim, but                                               Well-trained people can escape...                                 _________________________________________________ ____________________
Swimming in the crystal water
Is a thing of joy,
There's the play of light
The tricks of the sun's ray
Like your love.
I love it but feel
Afraid as it may not help
Me float any time to
Get me drowned.
But, I can't leave this addiction
And can't stick to it.
Perhaps, I'll stay at the
Same state unless I
Leave this habit.
Be patient in the heat strokes sweetheart,
There is a shy rose hidden in the thwart,
Get up throw the clothes wear a swimming suit,
Go to a swimming pool be a little more smart,
Clouds have started rising to watch your beauty,
They should, your body is a nature's work of art,
Soon they will calm down the hostile sun,
May be angry at the moment my great Lord Bart,
Love will calm down the prince of of the skies,
Cupid has stretched his bow just wait for the dart,
Thwarts will be pinned down the rose will dance,
With thunders and lightning it plays its part,
Soon the sun will runaway all praise to the clouds,
Its face is already pale if not full at least a quart,
At the pool I see violets, jasmines and daffodils,
In a green sari my South Asian rose what a sart!
The naughty rains have started, will not spare her,
You are exposed enough if not fully sweetheart.
I am missing something, yes I am missing something,
At a swimming pool I have lost my romantic heart.
Tourist Hotel´s Pool
The swimming pool at the hotel is empty
guests are having supper.
On limpid water two big yellow balls float
asleep after being thrown about all day.
Around the pool deep green artificial grass,
and a ditto tree that sheds no leaf.
Nature has been recreated.
No fish will ever swim in a pool that has
blue tiles at its bottom to pretend
to be the real sea that is a few miles away.
Except for insecticide and chlorine there is
no aroma other than the smell of nothing.
so sterile, so insipid, so dead.
But wait, a young couple might swim here
late at night, make love and their juices might
mingle, bring a renewal, to this oasis of sterility.
But perhaps not, I see a sign telling bathers:
“Smile you are on camera.”
I saw a salmon once, like an empty sock
Its procreative powers leeched away
Senile, rheumy eyed, a near-dead thing
Lolling in water, too far gone for motion
I roll around in the weightless womb of the pool
Wings of skin, like grey fins hang from my arms
My body turns belly up and I stare at the ceiling,
Its tiny lights like pin pricks, needling away the dark
Butterflies, Complete panic,
A thrill of excitement.
Watching the water, pure and clear,
A feeling of wanting, drilling through my mind.
The race is called, my first event,
I feel a shudder run up my spine.
Standing in a line with my competitors,
My new enemies.
I observe them,
Watch as they prepare themselves.
Standing on the blocks,
The eerie silence of the start.
I single beep and I'm flying,
Straight though the air,
And then splash, I'm in the water.
The smooth cool water is calming,
But now is not the time to be clam.
The chlorine sings my skin.
I break the surface,
Hear my friends cheering.
I put my head down and stroke,
Only four more laps.
The sound of water drills in my brain,
I turn my head to breathe, and see my competitor.
I gain speed slightly, adding to the tension.
I reach the wall and do my fastest turn,
I will not let her overtake me.
When I breathe I look up to see my team,
To see them screaming and cheering.
Their support makes me put in a little more effort.
Then it starts, that nagging in my lungs,
My legs start tiering.
I push harder, striving for the finish,
Sensing the fear of the girl in the lane next to me,
I gain speed. I relish the competition.
Ten meters, only 10 more,
I start thinking of the finish.
It only makes me want it more.
I slide into the wall and finish,
I watch as the timekeepers discuss my time.
As they tell me my time I feel a rush of pride,
A personal best.
I close my eyes and listen for the results.
They call them, from 3rd place to first,
Second. A rush of excitement and regret fills my body.
But who beat me?
I look around, spotting out the winner.
She looks so happy,
In my mind I think she won't be as glad next time.
I slip out of the pool in one smooth movement,
Walk back to my team with pride.
Receive the sarcastic comments from my friends,
And the constructive critocism my coach.
The as the adrenalin of the race dies down,
I hear my name being called for another race.
Water born species always swims
No one teaches them to swim
The best swimmers of rivers
Oceans, and waterfalls in easy.
Swimming the wonderful exercise
For the humans a sport for fitness
keeps away diseases and strengthens
The mind, body, and physical structure
Swimming that gives great relaxation
Swimming that bringing enjoyment
Swimming that gets confident mind
Swim as you like in different forms,
But always keep your safety in water.
I am in my swimming suit,
And I am in the water.
It is all water here,
Fear not.
You, yourself
Is the product of water.
No danger, come here.
We will stay here
Year after year.
Who is a perfect swimmer?
That I want to answer,
But nobody is ready to hear.
My poems are as easy as water,
You are my poem, dear.
Freshly risen sun has shown face,
Swimming this is in sky's chest,
Swimming this is in water's chest,
No rest, no rest, this is swimming,
Creating its mirror images in pond,
Empowering every moment of love,
With its golden crown and pearls,
Sun is swimming towards Earth,
Welcoming and embracing tightly,
The pond shore grass is smiling,
Beside the flyover, near the city,
Smiling sun's swimming is reflected,
Nature's bountiful moment is counted,
Beauty's glance is justified more,
Palace inside water has whispered,
Golden ducks are swimming in joy,
No rest, no rest, fest is celebrated,
Compassionate heart is empowered,
God's grace through sun has entered,
Mother Earth's bosom is filled in milk,
For suckling the baby golden ducks,
Green juice is prepared for sun by leaves,
After swimming more from dawn to dusk,
Sun will be tired near dusk to rest,
Dawn's nectar is ready to serve freshly,
Swimming sun is thinking to smile again.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,17, May 2018. All rights reserved.
Disappear between the space of dust
In a smoke, within the light
Time moves in any speed
Continuously without tired no rest
In a chime of turbulence
Swimming back to the past
For the broad river back to early creek
Unfold the memories of past ages
In the album of experience, our old life
Reversing tears back to enter the eyes
Revisiting old smiles back on lips one more time
Wandering all before just before now
Still, we moving forward heading toward the future
Toward the estuary, swimming follow the flowing time
Moving back or in front, physical still here
Wandering, facing the stream only our mind
All good, bad now a past scenery along the time river
We heading to estuary to be as a part of wise ocean
Till time sending our final destiny to the sea
Another scenery of cry or happy we will feel and see
Just to move forward, forgive, learn to gain from past
Nothing to waste because time moves in any speed
So i will let my tears flow and smiles glow
Live these beautiful feelings in my life
For all time, as i know
Soon we will have no more
to hold each other (time and life)
: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Having a break from 'Rise from Ashes' theme
and trying write something like 'Swimming the past time'
A poem that i done as i felt how fast time disappear...
just wrote it and post it
Life walking within time, and time never stop walking
and moves in any speed..so just bring your life some cheers
in everyday even it's hard...or not _Unwritten Soul
Light of spirit helps me soar
the sky I sing.
Inside the draft up high wind
to bring.
Gathering of wings feathered
dreams gleam.
Hearing bretheren flap a
mighty beat.
Thunder claps shape her skirt
for all to see.
Lovers who want to make successful lives
always compromise
I have since years gone by
always said Yes
never No
who am I to stop the freedom
of the one I love
even animals are blessed so
love each other when you flow
and
let go when charms don't glow
and both know
Very beautifully conveyed
love all day and night
him
you may
till life's last days
letwater flow in the rivers
of where live you may
and entwined
for life do stay
God Bless such lovers like you
always
She tried to warn me
right from the start,
she said she had a friend
that had stolen her heart,
even though I was warned from the very beginning
I liked her so much I kept right on swimming,
I know winning her over would be tough to do
so, when she gave me an opening
I slipped right through,
Now that I'm in
the water seemed to have gotten deeper,
I'm not so sure
that she's a real keeper,
I think she swims along
plays her part,
but she can't 'feel'
because she doesn't have a heart,
I've even thought about backing off
so, maybe she could find
the soulmate she'd lost,
but I also know that she really needs me
and swimming away from her
isn't quite so easy,
but so often I ask myself
what role do I play
am I just another 'fish'
or am I standing in the way,
I hate being confused from one day to the next,
feels like I'm tangled up
in a fisherman's net,
a part of me would like to leave
and get out of the dark
but there's the other side
thats madly in love with the shark
how i wish to swim with the dark queen
how i like it that way
where i make the strokes, set aside the water with my hands
breathe,
and travel a distance,
wading throughall the liquids wrapping my body
the coldness and warmth all mixed up
the rhythm of the body sipping through
losing itself to a certain depth and coming out again triumphantly
experiencing little deaths and surging up to life again
i may pretend that i drown and i may resurrect myself with that big lie
and tell myself there is more to life than death
there is more to the struggle than simply lose myself in the depths of defeats and some uncertainties
Swim! Swim! Swim! Plunge yourself into the wates of Life
That is what my father too used to tell me once when he was alive
and so cruel and strict and unfeeling
and then i met you dark queen writing everything about swimming
how i wish to swim back to life again
and what i like most about it is that it can be done without so much talking.
when the meaning of water
ceases to be fluid
one fish swims with the rage of the river
looking for sharp stones
to tear off its fins
looking for  a crazy fisherman
to catch it
hook, like and sinker
I saw myself a lake of stars
As I walked past the lake last night
They reminded me of a thousand burning cigars
As they seemed near, and were so very bright,
I watched them as they shone and glimmered
Then out of curiosity I tossed a stone into the lake
And then the stars they all shook and shimmered
As then to the shore came their quake,
Stars of thousands I could easily see
And they all were inside this small lake
They brought me joy and also glee
That one moment in time I will never forsake,
Just think that all the stars that were in the sky
Were now in this one small body of water
And the moon as well, she was nearby
As the mother is always close to her daughter,
So into the lake I went in for a swim
I then swam with the moon and all the stars
I did it without thinking as it was just a whim
And while in the lake, I swam towards mars.
Randy L. McClave
when sun's at twilight
I'm lying nude on it—to
jump into the sea
It is good to swim in seas
When we can be friendly with the sea
The salinity that made it
The sea ever a wonder with its tides
Swimming across the tides difficult
Where practice makes the man fit enough
Just like a circus artist in human pyramid
The art of swimming a wonderful lesson
Those to practice with care and caution
Just like the life that is to be faced
The challenges in real situations
To face them with brevity and decisions
Which like an expert swimmer in sea or river.
The breezes waved the silver grass,
Waist-high along the siding,
And to the creek we ne'er could pass
Three boys on bare-back riding;
Beneath the sheoaks in the bend
The waterhole was brimming -
Do you remember yet, old friend,
The times we 'went in swimming'?
The days we 'played the wag' from school -
Joys shared - and paid for singly -
The air was hot, the water cool -
And naked boys are kingly!
With mud for soap the sun to dry -
A well planned lie to stay us,
And dust well rubbed on neck and face
Lest cleanliness betray us.
And you'll remember farmer Kutz -
Though scarcely for his bounty -
He leased a forty-acre block,
And thought he owned the county;
A farmer of the old world school,
That grew men hard and grim in,
He drew his water from the pool
That we preferred to swim in.
And do you mind when down the creek
His angry way he wended,
A green-hide cartwhip in his hand
For our young backs intended?
Three naked boys upon the sand -
Half buried and half sunning -
Three startled boys without their clothes
Across the paddocks running.
We've had some scares, but we looked blank
When, resting there and chumming,
One glanced by chance upon the bank
And saw the farmer coming!
And home inmpressions linger yet
Of cups of sorrow brimming;
I hardly think that we'll forget
The last day we went swimming.
Every one can't swim in a river
Which experience makes some to swim
The swimming a perfect exercise
Mind and body rejuvenating
Every one destined to swim
Across the ocean of life
Which experience makes them to cross
The currents and depth in the way
Every life is entitled to swim
The life that requires so much vision
Some may drown in ways of currents
Some victorious and triumphant
Everything depends the individual
And surroundings he got the training.
Swimming in any sea is not and                                        It will not be like that swimming in                                  Any swimming pool                                                     Simply because when someone swims in any sea, then                    He feels great and different, but                                     When swimming in any swimming pool, then                              Someone feels that he is tied to the circumference of                 That swimming pool,                                                  I am not saying that swimming in any swimming pool is not good, but   It is not like of that swimming in any sea anytime,                  My late dad used to take us to the Oummal and Fares swimming pool To Teach us greatly how to swim,                                        We loved swimming in these swimming pools, but                        We wanted to be free in the sea,                                     At that time and we were being underage,                             It was a red line for us to swim in the pretty sea fearing that       We might be drown....                                                We remained like this for as many years as we could....              Any sea is treacherous, so                                            Swimming without being accompanied might cost someone his or her life Anytime....................                                          Swimming in any sea has its own people, but                           Swimming in any swimming pool might be for all ages and               It's always safer..................                                  _________________________________________________ _____________________
ليست السباحة,                              في اي بحر,                                 و سوف لن تكون                               مثل السباحة                                 في اي بركة سباحة                            لأنه ببساطة حينما يسبح المرء                 في اي بحر                                   انه يشعر حينئذ شعورا كبيرا و مختلفا         و حينما يسبح في اية بركة سباحة              فأن المرء يشعر بأنه مقيد                    بمحيط تلك البركة................           انا لااقول ان السباحة في اي بركة سباحة       ليست جيدة                                   و لكنها ليست كالسباحة في اي بحر في اي وقت...........................                 اعتاد المرحوم والدي ان يصطحبنا الى مسبحي العمال و فارس                               ليعلمنا كيف نسبح بشكل افضل....             عشقنا السباحة في هذه البرك                  و لكننا اردنا ان نكون احرارا في             البحر....................                  في ذلك كنا في سن القاصرين                   و كان ذلك حطا احمرا لنا في ان نجرؤ على السباحة في البحر الجميل                     خشية علينا من الغرق....                    بقينا على هذه الحال لسنوات كثيرة            قدر استطاعتنا.............                 ان اي بحر غدار                              و لذلك                                     فالسباحة بدون مرافقة                        قد تكلف المرء حياته                         في اي وقت...                                           للسباحة, في اي بحر,                      اهلها                                         و لكن                                       السباحة في اية بركة سباحة                                       فهي لكل الاعمار                             و اكثر امنا                                    ________________________________________________
There is a swimming pool in a small town
where water sparkles as blue as the sky,
where some bikini clad girls draw the eye,
with skin tanned to mahogany brown,
where from a diving board people dive down,
where time gets wings and quickly rushes by.
There is a swimming pool in a small town
where water sparkles as blue as the sky,
where a myriad of beautiful girls daily lie,
where the garden is somewhat overgrown
and children buy sweets, chips and pie,
while teens frolic until the sun does die.
There is a swimming pool in a small town
where water sparkles as blue as the sky.
In the grayness of a chilly November Dawn
The salmon are swimming up current to spawn
Of the Duhallow rivers as the flood does subside
The will to breed in them cannot be denied
Their lives are in danger at this time of year
As they run the gauntlet of the poachers gaff and spear
Some of them do die in the act of foul play
As victims of poachers which seems sad to say
And only the luckiest fish do survive
And make it back to the saltwater alive
From the predation of humans with luck on their side
In their spawning Season death they have defied
And will return to their birth river for to spawn next year
And run the gauntlet of the poachers gaff and spear.
The salmon are swimming upriver in the cold gray damp of the dawn
To the gravel beds of the rapids to dig out their spawning beds to spawn
November is their breeding season in the cold and wet Northern Fall
When yesterday's flood is subsiding they are answering to Nature's call.
The salmon are swimming upriver by Nature they are duty bound
They jump waterfalls on their journey to get to their high breeding ground
Their urge for to breed is upon them their numbers they must multiply
To insure the survival of their species their natural urges they cannot deny.
The salmon are swimming against the current a hundred kilometres or more
To the high gravel beds of the river that journey to the Atlantic shore
They risk the gaff and spear of the poacher so that their species will survive
And the main reason for their survival is their natural sexual drive.
The salmon upriver are swimming with the chill of late Fall in the air
Through old fields and along by hedgerows by cold winds of their foliage stripped bare
They swim on against the strong currents without even one thought of fear
Of the fate that might even await them death by the poacher's gaff or spear
I went with them to the fishing hole,
Way back yonder in the back of the woods, .
Two girl's
without boyfriend's, they'd never even kissed.
Look at the lips of her mom,
Leaving with them, I asked her, with lips like
those, I wanna know where your taking me fishing.
He grinned and then said, Let's go fishing.
Each time it rains, it washes both holes out and
sometimes the fish are easier to see and catch.
fish
Swimming
On
sea sands
with waves...
Clouds in asphalt, in the graffiti of sweet things,
Swinging their hips to the store to buy roses for
Themselves while the rain slings;
Oh, I’ve been singing out of school early again,
Watching the honeys picking up gas- I’m raggedy
In the brambles all my scars are browned bagged:
Every tender v is higher strung than I;
Oh, how sweet it is not to have to look one titted thing
In one venal eye; to enjoy the reasons of the gainfully
Unemployed- to fart in the litters of death’s convoy-
The reptilian monarchy knows better words,
Ruling forever their flamingoes’ soft conflagration,
The easy pantomime of frightening flight the housewives
Put to good use in their sororities satin-lined;
Areolas and suvs, runs in their pantyhose, gurgles from
The park swings; I drink whatever liquor I find stashed
Out back in the weeds beneath the clothes-line;
And I swing underneath the brindled palmettos-
I hook my arcs and curveballs far to the corner of where
The better girls have warmed to the infinitely better gentlemen,
Their children mewing like breast-fed kittens;
And I fart and tell jokes to shadows, my eyes ever present
To the swimming skeleton of the singing wind chimes.
We swim a few times
across the water
where people float
and enjoy at the deepest place
the well-being that the pool
brings magically,
before we wrap our arms around each other
and recoil in the water up and down
and a few rascals
splashes us totally wet.
While we drink ginger ale
lying on our towels,
there’s a mom with two daughters
that pours some orange Fanta for them
and they throw blocks of ice
into the top of her swimsuit.
She shudders from the cold
and give small yells and say
half amused
“wait you are causing
my tits to hang out”
and the girls run laughing
circles around her
until one steps on a bee
and the yells
gets a new intensity.
Cold, blue water, shimmering and shining like broken ice
floating around with the morning breeze.
Many children learning how to swim, trying to follow
directions so they can move up to the next class which
is not too far from them in the pool.
Sitting in the morning-cooled sun, a gentle wind comes
along and freezes them.
Shivering on the side of the pool, shaking with the
breeze blowing on them, gladly jumping back into the
water when their instructor yells, 'Get back into the pool'.
eyes are
watching sky
moon will walk...
with out legs...
with out hands...
In payment for those mornings at the mirror while,
at her
expense, I’d started my late learning in Applied
French Braids, for all
the mornings afterward of Hush
and Just stand still,
to make some small amends for every reg-
iment-
ed bathtime and short-shrifted goodnight kiss,
I did as I was told for once,
gave up
my map, let Emma lead us through the woods
“by instinct,” as the drunkard knew
the natural
prince. We had no towels, we had
no “bathing costumes,” as the children’s novels
call them here, and I
am summer’s dullest hand at un-
premeditated moves. But when
the coppice of sheltering boxwood
disclosed its path and posted
rules, our wonted bows to seemliness seemed
poor excuse.
The ladies in their lumpy variety lay
on their public half-acre of lawn,
the water
lay in dappled shade, while Emma
in her underwear and I
in an ill-
fitting borrowed suit availed us of
the breast stroke and a modified
crawl.
She’s eight now. She will rather
die than do this in a year or two
and lobbies,
even as we swim, to be allowed to cut
her hair. I do, dear girl, I will
give up
this honey-colored metric of augmented
thirds, but not (shall we climb
on the raft
for a while?) not yet.
Writing brush swimming ink pool fully dips poetry and Chinese painting feelings
求下联——笔泳墨池饱蘸诗情国画意
★ 笔泳墨池饱蘸诗情国画意【不正师太出句】
☆ 不正师太（罗志海）  联句
出句：
笔泳墨池饱蘸诗情国画意【不正师太】
对句：
神游文海常萦若谷谦虚怀【不正师太】
韵流词海狂飙醉意故园情【寂静无声】
神游文海精通章 法板书魂【速行过客】
毫挥宣纸狂书汉赋宋词情【曾经沧海】
○○○○○○○○○○ ○○○○○○○○○○
If, in the month of dark December,
Leander, who was nightly wont
(What maid will not the tale remember?)
To cross thy stream, broad Hellespont!
If, when the wintry tempest roar'd,
He sped to Hero, nothing loth,
And thus of old thy current pour'd,
Fair Venus! how I pity both!
For me, degenerate modern wretch,
Though in the genial month of May,
My dripping limbs I faintly stretch,
And think I've done a feat today.
But since he cross'd the rapid tide,
According to the doubtful story,
To woo, -- and -- Lord knows what beside,
And swam for Love, as I for Glory;
'Twere hard to say who fared the best:
Sad mortals! thus the gods still plague you!
He lost his labour, I my jest;
For he was drown'd, and I've the ague.
‘You were swimming in cold water, ’
Said a Voice suddenly from
Behind the trees ‘and you are
Blue and that dangerously’
‘You are a goblin should I take
Advice of you? ’
‘Depends on you, free are you’
And disappeared
The goblin feet to back all
Suddenly
Then another Voice from a high
Bough tree
Said the same: ‘Beware! ’
Ended ‘the waters be enchanted’
And
I felt my red heart melting in me.
ପାଣିର ସ୍ୱପ୍ନ,
ସ୍ୱପ୍ନରେ ପାଣି
ବହୁଛି ଉଜାଣି।
ଦେ ଦେ
ଆଉ କେତେ
ଦେ ଆଣି।
ଏଥକୁ କର
ଉପାୟ ପହଁରିବାର।
ଏଥକୁ ଯାତ୍ରା
ଅନ୍ଧାରୁ ଅନ୍ଧାର ।
ବାମ ଆଉ ଡାହାଣ
କୁଣ୍ଡଳାକାର।
ଅଂଚଳ ଅଂଚଳ
ନିଶାର କଳେବର।
ସହ, ସହିଯାଅ,
ସହିବାକୁ ପଡିବ,
ମହାମନ୍ତ୍ରୀର ଆଦେଶ।
ଯାଉଛି ଆଉଛି ଯେ ଯାଏ
ନିଶ୍ୱାସପ୍ରଶ୍ୱାସ ।
ବ୍ୟବସ୍ଥାର ବି
ଗୋଟେ ସ୍ୱର ଛନ୍ଦ
ଅଛି ତ!
ସ୍ୱର୍ଗପ୍ରାପ୍ତି ଏଠି
ଭାରି ସହଜ।
At Rajputana, in a religious meet
Swamiji came to participate,
But none cared for his rest,
Or for his food at least.
A poor low caste man
Gave him with hesitation
Some uncooked food
As cooked one was prohibited.
As he was an untouchable,
The high class people,
Kept him at a distance
In all the functions.
Taking pity on him,
Swamiji then told him
“Bring your cooked food,
For me, it’s good.”
On seeing his kindness,
The poor man shed tears,
And gave him cooked meal,
That, in fact, tasted well
Swamiji felt, “The poor people
Who’re so good and simple,
Live in huts as untouchables.
And such people, we despise.”
For many days, with no food,
At some places, he remained.
He stayed then with sweepers
Who were treated as outcastes.
They were very simple,
As well as more humble,
And possessed many virtues
Of true spiritual values.
Many times, Swamiji wept.
“Why such men are kept
At the feet of our society
Without any kind of mercy? ”
For them, Swamiji prayed,
Wherever he had stayed,
For their speedy deliverance
From this unpardonable injustice.
In all sincerity
It is a pathetic pity
I merely offer sympathy
With such velocity
This sadness born out of the blue
That decides to levy itself on you
In your fixed stillness
I sense your illness
Accept my sympathy
You lost a pet
Somebody made you upset
Accept my sympathy
You lost a friend
Your broken heart is yet to mend
Accept my sympathy
You were once abused
Possibly at times wrongly accused
Accept my sympathy
You marriage is on the rocks
You got divorced, left without a buck
Accept my sympathy
You lost a fortune
Your voice can't sing a decent tune
Accept my sympathy
You lost in love or lost your job
Or perhaps at one stage got robbed
Accept my sympathy
Your life is a mess
Everything around you depresses
Whatever the circumstances
Accept my sympathy
And if I happen to show no sympathy
Please accept my sympathy!
www.sylviachidi.co.uk
A pocketful of sympathy
Is really rather wonderful
To stop a scratch from stinging
Or a bruise from black and bluing
A pocketful of sympathy
Can stop a heart from hurting
Or catch a tear that's falling
Like a raindropp down a cheek
A pocketful of sympathy
Costs absolutely nothing
It's the cheapest kind of plaster
That you'll ever ever find
And a pocketful of sympathy
Is like Lindsay's Magic Pudding
'Cos the more of it you give away
The more you leave behind
Scrambling up the mountain
The toothless old men
Shooting at two boys,
Their rightful share of Germany's greatness.
Later, out of luck, then in,
those boys:
Caught; forced to watch the toothless
Eat, drink and dance;
And out of indulgence-stoked
Greater need
Not to kill,
Let go.
MyNOTE:
This poem consists of four tercets and two quatrains.
Please, enjoy reading.
Thank you so much.
For someone i very sympathesize with
indeed differences like night and day,
is the best remedy for a happy marriage their way
i have come to a crystal clear summing up:
At the touch of love, we become a poet,
no matter the order of love
IF there be love, my zest
a newest poem is created in an eye wink
while winking my eye to the poetess.
An impressive result of your genuine love
first to the Lord above
then to your dearest ones and my zest
to read such mesmerizing poetry-link
a jewel from the tip of thy golden quill
and the deepest bottom of ink,
there's endless precious beauty still
with this careful created poetry
i offer thee a memorable reminiscence
hoping it's to your glee
and a welcome acceptance....
Photography by SFC titled: "Invitation to A Cup Of Royal Albert Tea"
© Sylvia Frances Chan
Copyright Protected
AD. Tuesday the 1st of May 2018
@ 11.33 hrs. A.M. West-European Time
average weather for Spring this morn
much moist and filtering sun.
心胆相照
战地英雄胆
平时志愿心
几人堪论剑
一曲觅知音
< br>
Be In Perfect Sympathy With Each Other
Usually willing heart
Heroic courage in the battle land
A few people can talk about swords
A piece of music seeks the bosom friends
3/22/2020格律体新诗 ● 五绝罗志海著译
Metric New Poetry ● Five Words of Quatrain by Luo Zhihai
第9722首对联体诗
The 9,722th Two Pairs of Couplets
后记:
对联体诗遵循《对联体诗律则（草稿）》写作，每一句字数由三言至二十一言不等，共四句（绝句）， 是一种格律体新诗。目前国内有几十位诗人参与创作。
Hey what did you say,
hey in which way?
I called the Doctor,
but he told me to pay.
O please tell me what
does a speaker do?
O please tell me what
does a Heater do?
O please tell me what
is a music?
I don't know because,
I am always sick.
You should be happy,
you can enjoy sound.
Because for me it,
is never found.
As the television played to an empty room
we fell apart in the kitchen;
cups of untouched,
unsuguared conversation
brewed in my mouth
but I said nothing.
You said nothing but swallowed hard
and that was the last time
we spoke about love.
C-ompassion
A-nd
S-ympathy
E-mploy
L- ove
Y-ou
N-eed
G-iving
O-ne
N- ice
Z-est
A-s
L-ife
E-njoys
S-weet ness
Topic: Birthday of Caselyn D. Gonzales (April 24)
Form: Vertical Monocrostic
A dead crow lay still
A flock of crows gathered soon
Cries of sympathy floated.
Softened clouds of dismay are arranged
periodically in systems of disarray.
Lasting thoughts coalesce and brew many
new ideas of imagination.
All of them taking me into tunnels of
reminiscence and being remembered in times
of creative sadness as it caresses our hearts in
sorrow, holding us in deepest sympathy with our souls.
Accumulated humanity
Blended with hi-power beauracracy
Education for rural locality
Cordiality and honesty
Sincerarity policy
Also with royality
To enhance healing poverty
Being flexibality exemplifing administrative quality
We prey you sir, you may attain Nibbana.
Teachers and students, staff of Departments of Education Uva Province srilanka.Zonal Education office Badulla.
Untimely death of Badulla Srilanka Zonal Director of Education A.R.Ramanayaka.
some sadly feed on sympathy
forget to apply the kindness
of heartfelt learning experiences
offered by caring sympathetic others
who have learned the hard ways
Love turns to empathy when one sees God in all,
The sharing of the self in life's rise and fall.
Fostered humbleness, blooms the empathy's flower,
And with it God's bliss, spontaneously showers.
While sympathy is Ego’s hubris,
Authority of superiority finds release
Empathy is a cry for other’s suffering,
Sharing oneness  with all human beings
Sympathy is worldly and mercy it may  trace,
Empathy sees itself in all living face.
.
Sure you felt bad…..,
Yes, it touched your heart….,
The sadness and the grief….,
That tore many dreams apart….,
But how quickly most forgot….,
And tried to switch the blame….,
From one thing to another…..,
Just like a little game….! ! !
We should have done this….,
What if we had been here….? ? ?
Maybe if we were there….,
Who knows if we were fair….? ? ?
Do you think we have too much….? ? ?
Is it that they envy us….? ? ?
Could they hate our lifestyle….? ? ?
We must not be treating them right…..,
We’re doing something wrong….,
We must have too much wealth….,
<< Listen >>
Why don't we stop all the bullcrap.....,
And just kill the terrorists bastards….,
Before they murder all of us.....,
To protect our lives and health….? ? ?
As usual, I was browsing internet
In my computer sitting adjacent
to the hall window, about nine O’ clock!
Within the glance of my eyes on left side,
I noticed something wriggling outer side
Closer to the compound wall inner side!
Shocked to see a snake moving forward steadily
I went out of my house through back door carefully
Taking a long wooden broad stick to beat it!
Hearing my approaching sound,
the baby snake turned around
I wanted to beat and kill it!
Since I noticed it is only a week old,
I felt whether to leave it to reach its mother safely
Or to kill, not to give chance to come back frequently!
But while it is moving carefully,
It raised its head very slightly,
Spreading its hood so gently!
Warning me every now and then,
Hey, be careful! I am a baby cobra!
I understood now it is a baby cobra!
I didn't try to beat it,
Is it due to fear?
Is it due to sympathy?
While I was not deciding,
It went through crevices
Between the cement slabs!
To visit my brother’s house
next day next door, since
firmly I closed the crevice!
since you married her
not for love but for sympathy
the gods agree
on some consequences
she will stare at you
and she will be nothing but
a ray of white light
you become the prism
to filter her soul
against the sun
your sympathy
shall spread her into
the many colors of
her griefs
soon she will say
that in the prism
where her soul passes through
there was no joy
there was no bliss
there was only this
little piece of happy moments
this pretense
not meant to last
her lifetime in the mask of darkness
Grey heron, on straw of boggy land,
Fry fishes are on swimming competition-
first, second, third…. to the jaw of routine
White clouds are flying by flapping wings
to the evening sky, the mill is ruling
to make new shooters
Falcons are wearing Black Shirts and judging
the sun under stormy darkness, no rains but
tears are shedding as blood on frontier thorns
The speeches on powered stage are honest friend
of nitroglycerin, sorbents, stabilizers….. no massacre;
but the space is the sparkling showcase of superpower!
-Gypsy
No!
-Refugee
No!
-Muslim
Oh! Shut down the life! Cleansing hut is my country
to make Heritage Park of civilization!
Stripped corpse of pregnant widow is floating on
naf river and going to shameless phallus of ocean!
Where are hoary civilized eyes for these seasons?
Mr. Civilized! Look- guest birds are flying as
your jolly fowler, it's your turn all; you can hunt
easily the flying by others with giggling sympathy! !
-September 13,2018 Chattogram
Wipe away your tears! ! !
Come back to me;
Have my sympathy,
For the sake of peace and love.
Three days after the first snowfall of season
The air is calm, but lots of hanging clouds.
Snow falls, but just few scattered flakes.
The sun is half-hiding behind passing clouds.
A squirrel lies by roadside with exposed belly.
This squirrel was killed last night, while crossing the road.
Few years, I traveled this road, back and forth
Many times, I was afraid that this squirrel might be struck dead.
The other day, I pushed my car break to a sudden stop.
This squirrel was standing in the middle of the road,
Too scared, it ran in circle, not sure of where to escape.
It escaped its death because of its best luck.
Last night, this squirrel was struck.
I feel sad and miss you much
Have my sympathy, my dear squirrel.
11292014
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
Translation of Vietnamese poem Chia Buồn Sóc Ơi of NHIEN NGUYEN MD
CHIA BUỒN SÓC ƠI
Ba ngày sau tuyết đầu mùa
Trời thì yên gió, nhưng mà nhiều mây.
Tuyết rơi, bông trắng lưa thưa
Mặt trời e ấp, lang thang mây trời.
Sóc nằm ngửa bụng, tang thương
Sóc này bị chết, băng đường đêm qua.
Mấy năm, qua lại đường này
Nhiều lần, tôi sợ xe lăn sóc này.
Hôm nào, tôi thắng vội vàng
Giữa đường sóc đứng, hướng nào đi đây?
Ngỡ ngàng, sóc chạy vòng quanh
Sóc này thoát chết, nhờ may số trời.
Đêm qua, xe đụng, chết rồi
Ngậm ngùi thương tiếc, chia buồn sóc ơi.
11292014
NHIEN NGUYEN MD
If you ask for my sympathy,
all you’ll get is my apathy.
You drown in insecurity?
Guess what?  It doesn’t bother me!
I wonder...where were you my friend?
Where were you the time my heart bled?
Were you there with your hand to lend?
O right...with my girlfriend in bed!
A balloon of bursting tears cannot float
But do not provide the action
Or release the pain too quickly
You might not be able to heal the form
To stop the train of deconstruction
In time to save the shape assigned to this creation
A leaf of trembling fears
The blossom trying to survive
Tries to thrive
On the branch no longer alive
We are the branch
Don’t think that you can make it without us
If you want my sympathy for him
You won’t get it from me
He made my life hell at work
Why should I give my sympathy or respect for him if he doesn’t have any?
I am afraid that you must be dreaming?
I don’t miss that place
Two years ago it was paradise
And I was proud of this place
Not today anymore
Today it is hell
I have a great sympathy for the caged bird
Who would like to lean on the wings of the clouds
I'm sorry for this little guy who dreams
And who suffers night and day. The sun is rising
And brings him hollow, wacky, and empty hopes
I'm sorry for this brave and timid bird
Who wants to fly in the clouds
I have a strong sympathy for the caged bird.
The bird tries to beat its bruised wings, alas!
He makes furtive efforts. He's like the shark in the trap
Who is swimming and fighting to get out of this fateful situation
It's the little Negro who plows in the labyrinth of the Americas
Listen carefully to the humming of his cries and miseries
At night, he can barely breathe, rest, and close his eyelids
He is hungry, thirsty, enervated, and tired of struggling with the life
Of this society which is full of insomnia, injustice and ignominy.
The bird is too weak to sing the songs of yesterday
Despite all the vicissitudes, he remains courageous and proud
The bird cries its misfortunes, its desires for exile
Forcibly, he wants to flee for refuge under another sky
The little Negro regains his strength slowly and gradually
One day, he will undoubtedly cross the vaults like a kite
To settle properly on the velvety carpet of the clouds
Comrades, I have a lot of respect for this bird once caged.
P.S. This poem is dedicated to Paul Dunbar, Dr. Maya Angelou and the brave of our world.
Copyright © May 2018, Hébert Logerie, All rights reserved
I have no sympathy for you
You took advantage of me
But you want to act like you did nothing wrong
You need to open your eyes and see
You are your own worse enemy
But you will not take responsibility
I will not be your friend anymore
Because you have really hurt me
She ever shines in God's grace
Knows no calumny towards any race
Her face with eternal peace glows
Love's fountain in her heart flows
In divinity she everyday dips
Prayer always sits on her lips
Sympathy in her looks
Charity in her outlook
In her ears Geeta, Gurbani and Bible ring
Her tongue the songs of wellbeing sing
Ever in blessedness her soul abounds
Her mind a rosary, love beads counts
Butter soft her heart, in sympathy melts
Jen Walls‘knees in prayer ever knelt
A man for a man
And it will not go anything else with,
Just a few words of sympathy,
Just a few words of affection.
unwise find
tempting habit
learned helplessness
corrodes victim souls
event exposes
life adverse stimuli
eats wears away gnaws
heart in hate reactions
impaired personalities
jealousy corroded characters
deteriorated hearts minds
endores learned helplessness
review study mental states
soul trapped organic organisms
people displaced in bodies
aversive stimuli forced to endure
painful unpleasant repeat stimuli
produces scare shell encased souls
trauma shell shock broken victims
confined upon tragedy life planes
repeated horrors wears down tar set trapped souls
unable unwilling to flee fear forthcoming encounters
unable to avoid escape out run subsequent encounters
damaging stimuli is not always avoidable escapable
unwise dependency find
tempting manipulation habit
learned desired helplessness
corrodes player victim souls
dependency was acquired
compassion sympathy seekers
sought symbiosis learned
shell cast coping techniques
when tar trapped
in cannot control
horror situations
learned helplessness
is experience contracted
molasses binding mental state
organism was fear forced
to endure aversive stimuli
stimuli sizzles painful
unpleasant trauma terror
errodes suffering soul
victim becomes unable
unwilling to avoid
subsequent encounters
with stress inflicted
stimuli even if escapable
previous brutality taught
victim has trauma learned
it cannot control situations
elephant wooden peg bound
learned helplessness theory
is another explaination theory
let us take a prescribed view
clinical depression is related
to cousin mental illnesses
perhaps close kissing cousins
cause might be perceived
absence of personal control
over outcome truma situation
pet clinical studies indicate
organisms that have not been
ineffective are less sensitive
in determining consequences
of their own behaviour patterns...
quick give rat more buzz zaps
are defined as having acquired
learned helplessness syndromes
but what choice did a rat caged
have not being houdini escape rat
artist could not escape zap test?
but you human are not
are not a rat test caged
escape constaining bonds
if you can flee adversity...
what does a rat know about human feelings?
I know happiness smiles can cure cancers
if taken as refuse to accept stress worries
as self curing healthy enlightened philosophy...
Losing sympathy ground
Sunday,18th August 2019
I may look harsh
but rush
to address the damage done
I regret it later even
don't go by my utterances
they are at once
spoken with a raging mind
and find no place elsewhere
I can't choose appropriate words
and use them to forward
my sentiments and feelings
I try to be honest as a good human being
I expect people to be lenient
kind and considerate at present
as I am losing the sympathy
and have lost the credible ground already
my heart reflects in the eyes
so try
and read the intention
that shall be helpful for the mutual relation
Hasmukh Mehta
Courtesy: Rafi & Klee studios
Love, friendship, and sympathy,
Let all go together life after life.
Let us be truthful for cultivation
And the association of the truth.
Love, sympathy and respect is a sign of greatness! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
My most precious gift of love I bestow to thee!
Decorated with the natural beauty of me!
Wrapped in kindness, sympathy and generosity!
Unclothed for all you to see the sweet truth of me! - Joshua Aaron Guillory
Out of the rubble,
And through trouble.
My hopes, doubles.
Weaving together,
This fair weather.
Evil dare tether.
In mental telepathy,
Feel no empathy,
With sympathy.
People depend on it,
they always run with it,
they always have to run with it,
they hope it would stop or slow down or run fast,
they always carry it with them,
they always look at it,
but...
it never stops for anyone,
it moves round and round in one direction,
it has three good friends in it who never fight,
the worlds depends on it...
THE CLOCK!
No sympathy
For you,
For you are
Corrupt,
Leader though,
You are.
Go to the hell
Or to anywhere
And you are
Not to come here.
No place
For you,
For you are
Black in color.
As much as you want to believe it
there is not sympathy in this world
The only thing that god wants for us is that we die in our own pain
to suffer the mistakes that we have made
to feed on our blood
if god has no sympathy...
Than who does?
I was quiet in the corner
He whispered in my ear
'come closer'
I could feel something begin to race
My heart
as it began to swell and violently pace
He picked me up
then sat me down
on the edge of my bed
I began looking around
I was fearing at first
as to what we may do
and then he walked back into the room
His angelic face
pearing down at me
touching me gently
as though to swoo me
Hey laid me back
kissing softly
I could feel temptation
as my heart bethrough me
He began to arouse me gently
and softly
as though to know what it was I had wanted
as he caressed
I could feel the pleasure
all through me
watching in silence
he knew what to do to me
as slowly as we had began
our clothes where off
and we had sinned
he was watching in enjoyment
amazed by all his poise
and then he laid on top of me
and I began to moan
Pleasure was no sympathy
as I am glad at what he did to me
and i laid there in his arms
he said ' I love you'
and I was gone
Gee.
I've never been in this situation to face.
Well...
I do have my beliefs and I must keep them prioritized.
It will always be business first as we know it,
Right?
I can not disappoint those who have supported me.
I'm sure you understand.
People will eventually get over their minor issues.
Here...
Make copies of my statement,
'Heartfelt I express to all my deepest sympathy.'
Stand clear.
The photograhers have arrived, finally.
Let's do this as quickly as possible.
I have other stops to make.
Save your sympathy for the poor living instead
Of wasting your tears and pity on the dead
Since they are past suffering and any living care
But the poor living in need of help are no longer rare
People are dying of malnutrition every day
And fleeing for their lives from war zones far away
They live in places surrounded by fear
And why weep for the dead when the dead do not hear
The poor every day life's survival battle have to face
Many of them are Stateless and without a Home-place
They are in need of compassion, kindness and empathy
And they surely could do with some sympathy
That the dead are past suffering i can only believe
And they do not hear you sobbing when for them you do grieve.
Love is a candle burning,
Burning and melting,
The candle with the wick.
Tear drops falling from
Silently and secretly,
Hidden from the world,
wiped with the palms
And the hands
And the eyelids red with,
The eyelashes smeared with
Rubbing and wiping,
Is this called love,
Is love suffering?
(Background note:
I too sobbed at some corner
After having viewed her,
My eyes too wet with tears.)
N.B. The background is too a part, but an unwanted addition to it. here the love is as a daughter.)
Sorry for playboy?
No has his own tool for finding
Another gold digger
Ageing Bella in the house at the corner outdoors she is not often seen
She was a potential swimming Olympian till a motoring accident she had at eighteen
Brought an end to her swimming career back in ninteen seventy three
And condemned her to life in a wheelchair she does deserve great sympathy.
She could not compete in the Olympics and swim her way into renown
And become the toast of the Nation and the heroine of her Hometown
It robbed her of her chance of having children she has never been any man's wife
one might say she was quite unlucky that accident ruined her life.
She is quite an attractive woman her brown hair flecked with strands of gray
She had spent years of her life in a wheelchair seven to ten years before her prime day
when I meet her she smiles and says hello but sometimes she looks rather sad
I can only empathize with her a terrible life she has had.
Thirty six of her fifty four years in a wheelchair since her widowed mum died five years ago she has lived on her own
Lady luck is surely against her a terrible life she has known
Confined to a wheelchair due to a car crash on the highway which robbed her of her chance of fame
In swimming she was a young champion and for herself making a name.
Show sympathy
Thursday, June 14,2018
6: 30 PM
It is God's grace
that you face
this cruel world
and yet remain in the main fold
Whether it is able body
Or with deformity
No one end's life
Even if it is full of strife
People take it as a challenge
And adjust to the growing age
Even though some people have born with no legs
They never lag behind
Some people have lost the hands
But life to them seems to be no end
I have seen the people working with legs
Writing, painting and even attaching the tags
Yes, society is also showing sympathy
They show empathy
And even rush to their help if needed
And show the gesture and they remain aided
Hasmukh Amathalal Mehta
unwise dependency find
tempting manipulation habit
learned desired helplessness
corrodes player victim souls
dependency was acquired
compassion sympathy seekers
sought symbiosis learned
shell cast coping techniques
when tar trapped
in cannot control
horror situations
learned helplessness
is experience contracted
molasses binding mental state
organism was fear forced
to endure aversive stimuli
stimuli sizzles painful
unpleasant trauma terror
errodes suffering soul
victim becomes unable
unwilling to avoid
subsequent encounters
with stress inflicted
stimuli even if escapable
previous brutality taught
victim has trauma learned
it cannot control situations
elephant wooden peg bound
Just as David found
himself to be
spiritually parched
and in need of
direction, so saints
down through centuries
of time, have turned
to these words to
bring solace,
sympathy, healing,
and hope in this
broken world system.
(Ref: Psalm 23
of The Holy Bible)
Mere sympathy only a show
A fascination of modern days
Actual need is the timely help
That too without knowing anyone
The left hand is absent minded
When right hand gives a help
Those are services to humanity
Those which judges somewhere in life
Sympathy in terms of publicity
A craze in different platforms hear
Most of times timely service require
Which is action oriented and result fruitful.
Despite what you may think
Those nice people, kind people, wouldn't-hurt-a-fly people
Are likely to leave you first
And you have a better chance with a conniving individual
Those crying people, lying people, I-would-rather-die people
Are often the best allies you'll ever have
Why is that you may ask.
Well those shy people are blind people, they unfortunately live a lie, those people
Switching sides, their sympathy will cling to your mistakes
And then there's the other kind
Those open-eyed people, wild people, not-afraid-to-speak-their-mind people
See the wreck of a world, and you, a star engraved in the bark
You are
what you are
when it all went
belly up
you are
what
you were not
get better
Champion.
Do you have any sympathy for god?
Because I have some sympathy for God
Do you believe in God?
Because I believe in God
Do you know who created you in his image?
God created you in his image
And that is not a lie
The man in the locker room told me of their murders
'It is beyond evil.' he said.
Dave Franks a great preacher and good chaplain
at another time of sadness said:
'What an animal'
I can only sadly echo here:
'What an animal'
and shake my head in sadness
while trying to remember where
I have put my gun.
A handred and twenty years have passed
Since the coven sank in the dark.
Reunion.
Hatred for blood.
A dead-end alley.
The forbidden encounter restarts
A staller spinning wheel.
I've got marginal feelings about intelligent females
Show me one who hasn't grown an extra layer of hatred
Who doesn't justify decadence with libertarian reasoning
And will give someone average an honest chance
I made one-sided pleasant conversation to a girl once; she told me to get lost
I tried to express my feelings about women to America; they told me to shut up
I shopped around for a better culture in order to make friends
And found a few that offered up some opportunities
I fell in love with a girl
And she took control of me
This I did not mind
Until one day I woke up and felt something had passed me by
I fell in love with another girl
And she melded with me and we became a single celled organism
This I really liked
And I never felt the need to split into another shape
These other women and girls are full of first world problems
This does not compute, I'll go somewhere else
Where I can sort out my competing lonely thoughts
They'll threaten you with coherence for finally voicing your displeasure
The crowd disperses after the stoning
Someone will clean up the blood while others go back to work
The sound of religious verses hang like smog in the air
Sympathy for the Taliban
He lives in the outer parts never seen by high society.
Always hip on what the story is, he’s broke without a penny.
Filled with messages from the broken hearts, he knows their plight in the entirety.
Got the grip on every politic, he just wished there wasn’t any.
Robin Hood waiting for Marion, could it be that
all the good in the world’s is done.
It was everyone’s big wish we could find the shining sun.
I pray to God His staff and rod will guide us.
Lost forgotten is our man of arms, SYMPATHY FOR THE UNDERDOG.
He’s kicked and mocked and trampled on, empathy for the underdog.
He stands for Don Quixote’s song, SYMPATHY FOR THE UNDERDOG.
He hides in the forest deep with a rabbit amidst the wilds.
Gone away from all the world like ours to meditate upon it.
Filled with answers but shy he will keep till the moment is ripe and mild.
Every ear will turn and listen as He recites His lovely sonnets.
There he stood singing His passion’s song, could it be that
all the good has turned to wrong?
It was many days until a gong whence rang amongst this throng.
I summon God to pass along His wisdom.
Lost forgotten is our man of arms, SYMPATHY FOR THE UNDERDOG.
He’s kicked and mocked and trampled on, empathy for the underdog.
He stands for Don Quixote’s song, SYMPATHY FOR THE UNDERDOG.
Like a lightning bolt His Word will strike.
Shaking mountains and bursting dykes
flowing out upon a troubled world.
His soul will shine like a morning star.
My heart will be there for Him
always faithful through thick and thin
and justice will be rendered then
and hope will reach the dark and grim.
Lost forgotten is our man of arms, SYMPATHY FOR THE UNDERDOG.
He’s kicked and mocked and trampled on, empathy for the underdog.
He stands for Don Quixote’s song, SYMPATHY FOR THE UNDERDOG.
This constant pain I’m not sure I can take it..
these consolatory words are enough to break me..
“just be stronger”…  and you’ll make it..
“think happier” and your internal world will change it…
there is no cure there is no treatment…
when I smile it’s because I fake it…
I want to see the last day through as someone who was there and unshaken..
I hide my feelings bury my tears..
tell them all there’s nothing to fear.. “I’m going to make it”..
but inside my lungs burn and my capillaries cry.. an iron rich fluid..
I know because too often I taste it..
“take a deep breath and calm your mind”…
sounds so serene and tranquil..
but as I breathe my lungs scream trying to expand against this ever tightening rubber band..
when finally it’s too much and my face is about to betray the pain that ravages and consumes my brain..
I move to deflate these natural balloons with such a horrid fate…
struggling to move these scores of molecules through airways that feel no bigger than a hair…
and as if this wasn’t already enough the medical bills pile up…
the vampire system reaches for the last clean slate you thought you’d save in case one day they told you you’re safe..
but it’s too late the trapper’s snare’s already determined your fate..
A woman's work is never done,
Being one is just no fun,
Beware the moaning has just begun.
Life just isn't fair.
Take the cleaning it's so hard,
The frying pan filled with lard,
Too much bleach leaves me scarred,
From mops I do beware.
Loading up the washing machine,
All those dishes I must clean,
It's heavy going this caffeine,
I need someone to share.
Filthy toilets I don't even use?
I clean up what you abuse,
I think I'm going to blow a fuse,
Why is it you don't care.
The Dyson needs emptying now,
He says darling I don't know how,
Wiping the sweat from my brow,
I collapse on to the chair.
Doing my hair and make up too,
My all over tan I love to do,
Just so I look nice for you,
Then all you do is stare.
Giving birth the ultimate task,
How did it happen don't dare ask,
Never again will I leave my Basque,
Don't you bloody dare?
Time of the month is it here to stay,
Menopause, please go away,
A woman's life let us pray,
No wonder we bloody swear.
Luckily enough our stamina's strong,
Sussing you out doesn't take long,
We're always right and never wrong,
That look will always scare.
How dare you ask me why I brood?
Praying I'm always in the mood,
Even you men must conclude,
‘' Sympathy For Us Is Rare ‘'
Some stay stuck in ruts.
Never able to pull themselves up and out.
Holding onto a stubbornness,
And expecting to be forgiven.
Or given the attention...
From those who have chosen to move on.
And this upsets,
The ones who feel neglected.
The ones who expect...
An empathy they wish to receive.
But do not get.
Since a sympathy is not given,
To the ones who self inflict themselves to bleed!
This intelligence you claim,
‘' Its unique to us ‘'
That's what you'd have others believe,
While you kill and maim,
Without any fuss,
I think it's yourselves you deceive.
The human being,
Is certainly unique,
But, not in the way you portray,
You're not all seeing,
Fact is, you're weak,
No-one believes what you say.
You live for now,
Forget what's ahead,
The future just doesn't apply,
Don't ask how,
The billions are fed,
You accept those starving should die.
You cannot restore,
What's forever gone,
By refusing to show all life respect,
When it's no more,
There's no new dawn,
The diversity of life you have wrecked.
If you're so clever,
Ask yourselves why,
The planet you live on is dying,
Each life you sever,
It's yourself you deny,
Yet death, you find so edifying.
As your end draws near,
What's left draw breath,
To watch you all die they're impassioned,
There's a lifting of fear,
As you meet with death,
For the human,
‘' Sympathy Is Rationed ‘'
M-an
I-n
K-indness
E-xpresses
P-u re
A-wesome
S-ympathy
O-f
L-ife
Topic: Birthday of Mike Pasol (April 18)
Form: Vertical Monocrostic
Perched on the branch of a tree
Was a nightingale sad and lonely
'The night has drawn near', He was thinking
'I passed the day in flying around and feeding
How can I reach up to the nest
Darkness has enveloped everything'?
Hearing the nightingale wailing thus
A glow-worm lurking nearby spoke thus
'With my heart and soul ready to help I am
Though only an insignificant insect I am
Never mind if the night is dark
I shall shed light if the way is dark
God has bestowed a torch on me
He has given a shining lamp to me
The good in the world only those are
Ready to be useful to others who are
Sympathy, the divine God gift
Possession is certain to lifespan, spare
Toothers before span ends
Sympathy
One came to the house with a pretty speech:
'It's all for the best,' said he,
And I know that he sought my heart to reach,
And I know that he grieved with me.
But I was too full of my sorrow then
To list to his words or care;
Though I've tried I cannot recall again
The comfort he gave me there.
But another came, and his lips were dumb
As he grasped me by the hand,
And he stammered: 'Old man, I had to come,
Oh, I hope you'll understand.'
And ever since then I have felt his hand
Clasped tightly in my own,
And to-day his silence I understand-
My sorrowing he had known.
She's rubbing his shoulder
and he's reading about
Western birds. There's a scoop
of light just above my knee
it resembles the world, the one I know
a layer of smoke spread thin, a shelf
my mind returns again &
again to the picture
you gave me. In pain.
I'm holding the receiver
in Denver some woman making
human eyes at me from her
blue seat, but I later
conclude she's crazy
I'm helpless, rushing back to fix the
"h," how can I help you
I think we tried this long enough
our cure
we would save us from everybody
else, we "got" it,
us
and now we're another falling down car
complaining animal
empty house
you bleeding & expanding
until
the red night itself
is your endless disappointment
in me
who promised so much
on that hill
O Glory to everybody & everything
that we will fish again & again
& get lucky
Anonymous submission.
There should be no despair for you
While nightly stars are burning,
While evening pours its silent dew
And sunshine gilds the morning.
There should be no despair - though tears
May flow down like a river:
Are not the best beloved of years
Around your heart forever?
They weep - you weep - it must be so;
Winds sigh as you are sighing,
And Winter sheds his grief in snow
Where Autumn's leaves are lying:
Yet these revive, and from their fate
Your fate cannot be parted,
Then journey on, if not elate,
Still, never broken-hearted!
Therefore I dare reveal my private woe,
The secret blots of my imperfect heart,
Nor strive to shrink or swell mine own desert,
Nor beautify nor hide. For this I know,
That even as I am, thou also art.
Thou past heroic forms unmoved shalt go,
To pause and bide with me, to whisper low:
"Not I alone am weak, not I apart
Must suffer, struggle, conquer day by day.
Here is my very cross by strangers borne,
Here is my bosom-sin wherefrom I pray
Hourly deliverance--this my rose, my thorn.
This woman my soul's need can understand,
Stretching o'er silent gulfs her sister hand."
Sympathy the good word,
Reflecting the kindness
Showing the love to suffering
Sympathy a great feeling
Coming from depth of mind
Showing sympathy a quality
Of persons the personality depends.
To show sympathy who we are
only we can offer our service
The service to the needy
Where ever someone requires
Sympathy the word have a pride
The pride of helping hand
The receiving end helplessness.
Only we are entitled the service
Those to the needy always
Sympathy and service must go together.
Grief held me silent in my seat;
I neither moved nor smiled:
Joy held her silent at my feet,
My shining lily-child.
She raised her face and looked in mine;
She deemed herself denied;
The door was shut, there was no shine;
Poor she was left outside!
Once, twice, three times, with infant grace
Her lips my name did mould;
Her face was pulling at my face-
She was but ten months old.
I saw; the sight rebuked my sighs;
It made me think-Does God
Need help from his poor children's eyes
To ease him of his load?
Ah, if he did, how seldom then
The Father would be glad!
If comfort lay in the eyes of men,
He little comfort had!
We cry to him in evil case,
When comfort sore we lack;
And when we troubled seek his face,
Consoled he sends us back;
Nor waits for prayer to rise and climb-
He wakes the sleeping prayer;
He is our father all the time,
And servant everywhere.
I looked not up; foreboding hid
Kept down my heart the while;
'Twas he looked up; my Father did
Smile in my infant's smile.
In all sincerity
It is a pathetic pity
I merely offer sympathy
With such velocity
This sadness born out of the blue
That decides to levy itself on you
In your fixed stillness
I sense your illness
Accept my sympathy
You lost a pet
Somebody made you upset
Accept my sympathy
You lost a friend
Your broken heart is yet to mend
Accept my sympathy
You were once abused
Possibly at times wrongly accused
Accept my sympathy
You marriage is on the rocks
You got divorced, left without a buck
Accept my sympathy
You lost a fortune
Your voice can’t sing a decent tune
Accept my sympathy
You lost in love or lost your job
Or perhaps at one stage got robbed
Accept my sympathy
Your life is a mess
Everything around you depresses
Whatever the circumstances
Accept my sympathy
And if I happen to show no sympathy
Please accept my sympathy!
some times we hold on somebodies..
that we feel that we care more about them...
despite. that they only caused to us only a pains..
and we still long for them, in spite of that...
and miss them from time to time...
while they not deserve that yearning or this desire, , ,
even they not deserve this love which we hold inside our hearts for them..
Lately alas I knew a gentle boy,
Whose features all were cast in Virtue's mould,
As one she had designed for Beauty's toy,
But after manned him for her own strong-hold.
On every side he open was as day,
That you might see no lack of strength within,
For walls and ports do only serve alway
For a pretence to feebleness and sin.
Say not that Cćsar was victorious,
With toil and strife who stormed the House of Fame;
In other sense this youth was glorious,
Himself a kingdom wheresoe'er he came.
No strength went out to get him victory,
When all was income of its own accord;
For where he went none other was to see,
But all were parcel of their noble lord.
He forayed like the subtle breeze of summer,
That stilly shows fresh landscapes to the eyes,
And revolutions worked without a murmur,
Or rustling of a leaf beneath the skies.
So was I taken unawares by this,
I quite forgot my homage to confess;
Yet now am forced to know, though hard it is,
I might have loved him, had I loved him less.
Each moment, as we nearer drew to each,
A stern respect withheld us farther yet,
So that we seemed beyond each other's reach,
And less acquainted than when first we met.
We two were one while we did sympathize,
So could we not the simplest bargain drive;
And what avails it now that we are wise,
If absence doth this doubleness contrive?
Eternity may not the chance repeat,
But I must tread my single way alone,
In sad remembrance that we once did meet,
And know that bliss irrevocably gone.
The spheres henceforth my elegy shall sing,
For elegy has other subject none;
Each strain of music in my ears shall ring
Knell of departure from that other one.
Make haste and celebrate my tragedy;
With fitting strain resound ye woods and fields;
Sorrow is dearer in such case to me
Than all the joys other occasion yields.
Is't then too late the damage to repair?
Distance, forsooth, from my weak grasp hath reft
The empty husk, and clutched the useless tare,
But in my hands the wheat and kernel left.
If I but love that virtue which he is,
Though it be scented in the morning air,
Still shall we be truest acquaintances,
Nor mortals know a sympathy more rare.
I took out the photographs from the drawer,
and laid us on the bed.
I had kept them pressed like wild flowers,
and now I sought a key
in each of these paper blooms,
to unlock the lexicon of you.
But instead I was crushed
by their single dimension.
All your things stare at me….
Your shoes,
sit,
by the door,
like a tired old dog.
You were never tidy but now
your leavings cut me
like little knives,
and I am mugged
by your memory.
Today I unzipped your hospital case,
took out your blue striped pyjamas and let
my fingers find the cuff and fray.
Unmended…..
Promised…..
Just touching them is just touching you,
in the hospital bed,
stubbled, grey
and oh so cold.
Now I want to be difficult.
My life has been made less ordinary by your death,
and even in your death you continue to define me.
I can feel your boney grasp upon the chain
that binds me to you,
and if I submit,
you will surely drag me to the grave
with all the other widows,
offering mindless
sympathy.
Blessed
is the smile of the person
which also can be gracious
for the happiness of others
Blessed
is the mouth of the person
which speaks
sincerely and honestly
Blessed
are the eyes of the person
which also can see
the suffering of others
Blessed
are the hands of the person
which also can feel
and carry the sorrow of others
We christen things
We call them
By their names
Names are famous
And infamous
The wind blows
In different directions
What should I call
My sympathy?
A relation,
A compensation,
A smart help,
Or a prayer to God
For my anguish,
Scattered on the floor?
It is a pillow
For their heavy heads,
A salty soup
Or a cup of confection,
Doesn't interest them.
Envy is ripe,
Very palpable
To their tongues.
They will accuse me
And handcuff
My wings
They will take it
As a nodule on the nose
I dread despicable things
I fear life too
Bereft of commiseration
I know what the caged bird feels, alas!
When the sun is bright on the upland slopes;
When the wind stirs soft through the springing grass,
And the river flows like a stream of glass;
When the first bird sings and the first bud opes,
And the faint perfume from its chalice steals--
I know what the caged bird feels!
I know why the caged bird beats his wing
Till its blood is red on the cruel bars;
For he must fly back to his perch and cling
When he fain would be on the bough a-swing;
And a pain still throbs in the old, old scars
And they pulse again with a keener sting--
I know why he beats his wing!
I know why the caged bird sings, ah me,
When his wing is bruised and his bosom sore,--
When he beats his bars and he would be free;
It is not a carol of joy or glee,
But a prayer that he sends from his heart's deep core,
But a plea, that upward to Heaven he flings--
I know why the caged bird sings!
When the source of some sympathy ventures our way
And the ones you admire have got good things to say
You are blessed, if it makes you feel better
And the advice that they share
Is all dealt with some flair
In the form of an e-mail or letter
In the darkly lit room
Hangs the smell of doom
As he babbles about his eyes
He seems bent on a mission
To paint a bleak vision
His elation isn’t disguised!
I’ve them aplenty
My eyes bloodied
In surgeon’s needles
Retinal detachment
Cataract
Glaucoma
There isn’t a trauma
My eyes haven’t suffered
His eyeballs roll
On the sclera
In perverse pleasure
I don’t mind
If I go blind,
The misery around
Doesn’t make eyesight a treasure
I haven’t met a man
To himself this inhuman
Treating the most valued lens
With such immense disdains
More than my suffering eyes
He says in glee undisguised
I suffer your cruelty,
That’s when you say
It’s my way
To garner sympathy!
If I were only a little puppy, not your baby, mother dear, would
you say "No" to me if I tried to eat from your dish?
Would you drive me off, saying to me, "Get away, you naughty
little puppy?"
Then go, mother, go! I will never come to you when you call
me, and never let you feed me any more.
If I were only a little green parrot, and not your baby,
mother dear, would you keep me chained lest I should fly away?
Would you shake your finger at me and say, "What an ungrateful
wretch of a bird! It is gnawing at its chain day and night?"
The go, mother, go! I will run away into the woods; I will
never let you take me in your arms again.
i am happy to see you flying
freely in the skies
like you are making a painting
with the wind
go, take time with the friendly pluffy
clouds
go, be aware of the colors and scent
of the waft- winds
wait, in a moment,
watch the bursting of the sun
the birth
of  a star- it is you
now
the center of this
universe
the apple
of my eyes
My Muse is simple,--yet it's nice
To think you don't need to think twice
On words I write.
I reckon I've a common touch
And if you say I cuss too much
I answer: 'Quite!'
I envy not the poet's lot;
He has something I haven't got,
Alas, I know.
But I have something maybe he
Would envy just a mite in me,--
I'm rather low.
For I am cast of common clay,
And from a ditch I fought my way,
And that is why
The while the poet scans the skies,
My gaze is grimly gutterwise,
Earthy am I.
And yet I have a gift, perhaps
Denied to proud poetic chaps
Who scoff at me;
I know the hearts of humble folk;
I too have bowed beneath the yoke:
So let my verse for them evoke
Your sympathy.
Oh, sweet Sympathy!
Show your bones
Where do you lay?
Save space for me
We'll be entangled
Internally, eternally
You are the gift
I will forever cherish!
For you offer more
Than simple desire
Treat me- I will take
Far more than I could
Ever deserve- Yet, ha!
Is it a sin?
To take what is given
Offered to me
On a silver platter
Nevertheless- Would I-
Could I- care to notice
The difference between
Right and wrong?
I have misplaced
My golden halo- cracked
I have forgotten
To search for it
Distracted by you
Oh Sympathy! Sleep!
Sleep with me
Come back to bed
I am trying to say I love you but in my soul it; s not right;
I am trying to show you I care; but it never comes out right;
I am trying to make it work; even when I know its falling apart;
Am by you; because I know it is not fair;
Walking out of the door crosses my mind;
Never coming back is a done deal;
How could I: when my heart longs for you;
Making up my mind; is harder than it seems:
Am by you; because I know it is not fair;
Longing for another is what my heart does;
Wanting to be yours but my heart cant let go;
My heart tells me am greedy;
What has become of me;
Am by you; because I know it is not fair;
Our hands seem at a side line;
We are either together or falling apart;
I make you happy but my priorities are forgone like the dust;
How can sympathy blend into love;
Am by you; because I know it is not fair:
I lay in sorrow, deep distressed,
My grief a proud man heard,
his looks were cold, he gave me gold,
but not a kindly word.
My sorrow passed-I paid him back,
The gold he gave to me,
Then stood erect and spoke my thanks,
And blessed his charity.
I lay in want, and grief, and pain,
A poor man passed my way,
He bound ny heard, he gave me bread,
He watched me night and day.
How shall i pay him back again,
for all he did to me?
Oh, gold is great, but greater far,
Is heavenly sympathy.
Like lightening to a bug, my world is transformed into
another place.
Life is worn inside out, filled with doubt and
insecurity.
How can life go on in a trench so deep and mired with
sadness?
So quiet, so gently, everything turned around and no
more feeling was felt.
Away from it all to a deserted isle within, hidden
from all, attempting to follow heart's desires.
Silently waiting for forlorn music to end this sympathy
symphony held daily within.
Taking notice of images, always standing within reach,
contemplating their worth when life is done.
All is lost, there is no more to work with.
Life has ended on this quiet, forlorn afternoon.
And no one is the wiser for it.
See not the beggars
if your gentle human heart
God given is blank.
Calls are from relatives to come and stay.
Helps are from relatives, with means unasked.
We, the couple, are fresh with the cancer.
Maybe they fear they might miss us soon.
05.06.2013
Не падай духом никогда,
Пока звезда в ночи сияет,
Пока в тиши течёт роса,
И солнце утро озаряет.
Не падай духом никогда,
Хотя слеза, реке подобна.
И вот прошли любви года.
Его забыть ты не способна.
Но плакать - в этом нет греха.
Тоскует ветер, как душа.
Падёт и снег - зимы слеза,
Где листья падали кружа.
Пока удел их возрождение
Судьба твоя такой же будет.
Хоть долог тяжкий путь смирения,
Но сердце жизни не забудет.
Where is the voice in my head
If any help it wants to be
now would be the best
These hands which flawlessly curse me
perform a symphony of sympathy
a one man orchestra of confusion and heartbreak
Where is this trust I've heard so much about
but can't seem to find
And to the world in which I stay
don't hate me when I say
'This identical state of mind
from the glass we look through
can you locate the hopes of the citizens
you erase
You know our names and our faces
but could you take one look at a blooming blue rose
straight in the eye and call it ugly
Could you look at a hummingbird
and ask for its wings to cease it's beat
We are the angels of this life
All we need is our wings
so could you help me find mine
the ones I lost some time ago
Now, dear, let's not quarrel anymore;
in fact, love, let me pour.
This is absolutely heavenly;
from what is it made?
It's a hearty herbal tissane
of belladonna, nightshade
and a soupcon of henbane.
So soothing, so light
I think I shall sleep well tonight.
can you be able to love
without dream
can you be able to own
without understand
you will never take
you will never care
I'm only a name
you will never run
you will never look around
my shadow far from your heart
can you be able to care
but never reach
should I hate
to make you understand
without talk
without try
only emotion
you just say
can't get it right
just erase me here
can you be able to promise
but your heart's tired
can you be able to protect
without see me
I realize
I really know you
you only hide
you will never care
you will never understand
A Tanka Prose
Abandoned by a coyote with a forked tongue, we are as forlorn as orphaned children lost in Arizona desert. When you stand in front of me, looking into my eyes, what do you know of the grief in my heart? And what do I know of yours?
this windy night
descends with snowfall...
a child migrant's life
merely the dash
between illegible dates
Sympathy is not operative
When to prey, rape, revenge, steal or rob.
Sympathy would generate for victims
If the offender is someone, not you.
08.17.2017
Tell me about your tragedy.
Spread it all over me,
layer over layer,
like buttercream frosting
on sponge-cake,
until any crumb of my own
is smothered beneath the
weight of your sorrow.
The odds of us sharing some
similar ruin are not as
high as say…a woman
over thirty-five getting killed
by terrorists before getting married?
Give me silvery music to whelm
the wailing of the night,
and wrap me in it,
plucking the strings of my
own suffering as you enswathe me,
tuning them to some pleasing, light opera.
I like you, might even love you,
yet there’s something undeniable about
the satisfaction of feeling exempt
from a condition worse than my own.
What is real is that neither of us
want to hear about the
greater circumstance of the other.
It lowers the loser’s odds considerably,
of ever overcoming.
This strange nature is the thing
which keeps us moving,
despite the laws of probability.
They don't have any sympathy for me
Because when I try to explain something it goes in in one ear and Comes out the other
Sometimes I even wonder if they got the message at all
It is even hard to say
Maybe they don't speak  english well enough to understand me
Have I tought of that?
No I never consider it
Maybe that is a fact
Poor snails
smashed to
pieces!
Left to dry in
the sun
Naughty children
unpunished
Blameworthy parents
Where's sympathy for
small creatures?
Hawk or shrike has done this deed
Of downy feathers: rueful sight!
Sweet sentimentalist, invite
Your bosom's Power to intercede.
So hard it seems that one must bleed
Because another needs will bite!
All round we find cold Nature slight
The feelings of the totter-knee'd.
O it were pleasant with you
To fly from this tussle of foes,
The shambles, the charnel, the wrinkle!
To dwell in yon dribble of dew
On the cheek of your sovereign rose,
And live the young life of a twinkle.
Irvan 12 April 1998
Stars illuminate the darkness that night my heart amazing
I still sit down and read the silence
Peel the skins memories that become embedded in spirit
And grain flavor that started accompanying the hearts of all the senses
I knew this trip would still be much longer
Although not as if I will survive
I will keep trying to survive and survive
To you my reason to survive
I do not care whatever happens between us
But I may know what you feel in your heart
When I walked away from you
My inner voice, screaming, mountain life abort
And I never sleep without kissing your shadow
As if longing urge you to come back again
Once inside, holy, eternal and sincere
I love you and will always continue to love you
How should I explain it to you
So simple but so hard to say
What's hell with everything that has ever happened
I'll keep stepping and stepping
to back
I only smell your perfume
And looked in the shadows of your eyes showing
Steps in any direction
I understand its true that made me compassion
Because you are beautiful universe
Because you have wanted to own
something I got
And to me thou fairest nymph
Among all the angel who dwells in heaven
When the night wind swept stars
It was just me, the moon and your shadow
I just do not care how crazy and be so
I sat in the meadow that extend
Slowly I fall down my body right
And I looked sharp and bright shining moon
There was a gnawing loneliness night song
My body feels lifted and flying
Towards the dark side of moon
I saw you dancing in the bright light of the moon
But like a dream that never real
I never reach your
And my body suddenly slammed hard
In the mountain hard and sharp coral
Only I get sick and wounded
Why did I formerly sympathy to you?
What could this something wrong with me?
A person is called saint if he has kindness with all the sympathy
He can claim then only as direct descendent of almighty
Or Messiah, messenger or for that respect an angel
At every inch you must look ordinary but with different angle
I have known or heard about many of such figures
They have worked for the humanity and reassured
About the human misery and risk involved for apathy
What work is to be taken up or followed to gain His sympathy?
Each work is evaluated and appreciated by God
Many might have lost favor as their soul stands sold
They are burden and living animal on earth
At each stage they live on but with the fear of death
To work under such difficult situation is Herculean task
No one may opt for it or readily go and ask
Some of the great souls are easily picked on earth
God has always created such situation without any dearth
Such a kind of saints have prevailed in present time
For the rescue of mankind with their known and committed crimes
Hardly anybody can undertake such enterprise
It is much to relief and to our surprise
It proves God's existence
We feel and experience His presence
He is omni present and in every individual
Only we fail to understand Him and take very casual
If some one works on charity or any kind of human service
That may be counted as noble cause and looked upon very nice
All kinds of help will be rendered and efforts lauded
His or her presence will be taken with high esteem and applauded
It is not done to gain international fame
It may involve great work and full of blames
Little slackness may invite lots of criticism
As it isli9nked with the work of humanism
Thousands of hands are raised in your well being
Prayers and congregations are held to praise and sing
Preaching is done so as to spread the kind and love message
The sick and ill fated souls are shown the way with passage
The services of poor may be remembered very long
It is not only the care and help but to stay among
Not showing mere finger for any work to be done
The far reaching impact will never be undone
Some of the names may be remembered by all
As they have responded with charity and humanitarian call
Anybody could do it without any assistance
But it has made some difference with their presence
They are afraid to be discovered,
As imbeciles!
So to avoid this exposure...
Laws were amended.
Rules were changed!
Quotas were enforced
To keep those deranged in control!
And even though everyone pays the price,
For their lack of knowledge and skill...
Or guidance with advice!
Those who have been subjected,
To this effective neglect that has affected respect...
Stand on the sidelines
Forced to hear them whine,
About every aspect of their sorrows!
With or without donated sympathy.
Hoping tomorrow...
Care packages of 'insight'
Is dropped by the tons from the sky!
'Let's keep out fingers crossed! '
My condolences can’t ease the pain,
That you have come to feel.
Nor fill the void in your heart,
That often seems unreal.
But it lets your heart know,
That you are in my prayers.
And when sorrow digs its heels,
There is someone here who cares.
I offer healing words of comfort,
And many hugs for sympathy.
When sorrowful clouds blotch your sky,
You can always depend on me.
I am a man,
I need your sympathy, your affection
The most,
Nothing else
But your love,
A few words of sympathy and affection
Which I need them most.
She so loved Him
was so beloved of Him
that He spoke to her and said
my beloved
ask of Me whatsoever you wish
and she said
without hesitation
my Lord,
fill my life
with difficulty
for at those times
I cry out
for You
and feel nearest to You
and if, for the working-out
of my own destiny
or for the love of Your world
must I be born again
have me born
in the most difficult of times
in the most difficult of places
and make me a man
that I may walk barefoot
and bloody
with only one leg
over a path of swords
I still remember him, though his face is not clear
For he only brought me to the world of
Alphabets, numbers and wonderful stories
Parents were renowned teachers, but failed to
Teach me, at least to count from one to ten
Father predicted, my IQ is sub-zero
Teaching me is mere wastage of time
My grandma took me to his house, with a patio
In front, thatched with coconut leaves,
For she could not stand my pathetic infancy
He welcomed us with immense grace
And patiently planted those seedlings of life into
My deserted mind, bruised with lots of pinches and slaps
He taught me the alphabets of my mother-tongue
He taught me to count from one to thousand
Father, with bachelor’s degree in education,
Failed to teach me count from one to ten
But my teacher succeeded in his venture with
Colourful results, even-though he was just matriculate
He used teach me an hour everyday
And grandma waited beside with great merriment
Sometimes his lungs chocked with the attack of Asthma
His sound was feeble, still he didn’t leave me
One day, we were on the way to his house
Through the green paddy fields,
Someone came opposite told,
Please don’t take him there, for his teacher is no more…
One, with lot of love, immense patience
And adequate knowledge can easily open
The inner eye of any child
But, God, why don’t you teach
This simple fact to those millions of parents?
5/6/08
My most loved teacher is Irene miss
She is always very bliss
She answers all my questions
And good at making suggestions
She gives us a lot of work to do
Though, they are fun to do
She explains about things very well
She is great is what I have to tell.
A bad teacher is negatively pessimistic
A good teacher is positively optimistic
A bad teacher swears all the time
A good teacher cares in their prime
A bad teacher passes on rude fear
A good teacher has on good ears
A bad teacher discourages
A good teacher encourages
A bad teacher despairs
A good teacher prepares
A bad teacher likes to bitch
A good teacher likes to teach
A bad teacher shouts every moment
A good teacher scouts for every talent
A bad teacher is up for crude devices
A good teacher is up for good advice
A bad teacher lets students fight on in the dark
A good teacher sets students on the right track
A bad teacher feeds on their looks
A good teachers reads many books
A bad teacher sings along with wrong faults
A good teacher brings along the right results
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
www.sylviachidi.com
I was abused literally and pushed aside by teacher
He was in rage to see me when I tried to enter
He might have some grievances in mind to nurture
As I was doing fare in studies and position was assured
I was really ashy boy but excellent in pick up
I heard attentively and was cheered with thumb up
His behavior as teacher made great impact in mind
I might have taken it lightly if he was harsh or unkind
It is customary to show little disrespect to the poor students
Some of the discourtesy is extended with inferior comments
I was unable to think further but bore a grudge permanently
I remember those abusive remarks and   resisted him once vehemently
I thought and rethought about such behavior
As teacher he would have been considerate and held honor
I became reserved from that day and decided to keep silent
As it was now known to me that best way is to offer no comment
In social circle too certain disliking exist for people
It may be more intensive when they are incapable
Not in financial capacity to move forward and compete
Live under their dominance and agree to submit
I remained firm in approach but turned away from close contacts
I kept good will at heart and prayed for their well being in fact
This gave me enough of strength to observe them from distance
I was taken little note of and none observed my presence
I return gesture with kind words and remain aloof
I have enough of strength financially as single proof
They dare not to see me with inferiority and pull down
As I have established of my own and became powerfully known
I wish that same kind of maltreatment is not shown
To children who are unfortunate of having means of their own
They are really asset to us and builder of future generation
How can we be indifferent when question of building nation comes?
I have known some of the people getting blinded
By sudden arrival of fortune and secretly confided
Their common sense gets unnatural boost to reveal
The arrogance is reflected and shown with no efforts to conceal
Giving my ears a painful tweak
She called me nitwit, tittering freak
Your wishy-washy ideas are quite antique
Can't you follow what is in chic?
She yanked me close and then you REEK!
I tremored and give her smile weak
This was not all she had to speak
She was a champ in pointless critique
She had no control over her beak
I kept on listening because I was meek
And she knew not what I lost what I seek
A teacher will guide you in many ways,
Displaying patience and inspiring hope,
A knowledgeable person with a spirited soul,
Preparing you to be in a position to always cope,
An untiring ability that is always exhibited,
The crown of intelligence adorning the head,
A special and charming person everyday,
Teaching you to tackle problems just ahead.
A devoted teacher that you will always respect,
That prepared you to select a future career,
To think of your posterity in a positive way,
And to glorify in the sunshine without any fear.
All year I had behaved,
with not a friggin' hair
or sound of dissonance
in sight for those who looked.
But on that faithful morning
when certain feelings landed
inside the courtyard of that
what you would call the autonomic
and the system without limits,
it happened, and it did so quickly.
No rescue or reprieve, no hiding grace,
it's what they label 'in the act', that counts
he was my best and most benevolent
impressed with me, Herr Teacher.
How could one, ever, forget the shame,
that had attached itself by then
to one's own innocent and altruistic name?
I sometimes think that my mistakes,
my ludicrous misjudgments could well be
a measure of the me who would not even know.
Of one's responsibilities and of one's properties,
The day od clouds and thick darkness will meet us all;
But, copulation brings about the fertilization of the eggs.
To quicken your pace in this 'rat-race'!
With nods and grunts;
And like the legends of the Hidden City! !
But, you need to dicover your inner self as well on this love.
This thing called 'love' is eating you up!
And, you now need my romance to keep you going;
For, i am an eloquent teacher who wants to lead you on.
A nice teacher
Never gives out alot
of work to their students.
A nice teacher
Always give out candy
to their students.
A nice teacher
Always give students a
warning before they get punish.
A nice teacher
Would never give
out a test.
A nice teacher
Is always a nice teacher
A new day to face many eyes,
Such inquisitive look  never lies,
The brain increases in sight,
Cracking almost to its size,
To address these minds,
To let them believe their not blinds,
To the wits I transfer in their kinds.
I lost my goal and find no more,
To reason is not a solution,
I found no trace to turn my track,
They carry me from the start,
Out  form the destiny I plot,
I struggle myself to stood still,
Clang my feet to where I stood.
A force to full me down seemed increased.
The glaring  sight of co- teachers move,
Commanding  them to pull me hard,
Shocked shaken me to the truth,
A snakes emerged even in the town,
Where concrete pathways ever exist.
The  more I wounded the more I was braver,
The scenario turned into a showdown,
A learner flashed a glaring knife,
My womb was the target of sharpness,
I closed my eyes to subdue to God,
Pray a little and asked salvation,
to Him I submit everything.
As the flying sharpness come near,
I saw the darkness overtook me,
I shouted unintimidating voice,
To melt the fire of burning desire,
Those co teachers dropped  their lids,
As the knife dropped,
So did their joy of seeing me free,
A lesson I ponder before
And I ponder more and more,
to water me into the field of
A good teacher to live forever.
As a Tribute to you O dear Teacher
I wish to dedicate this poem.
You are an unselfish soul,
Who just knows only to give,
Introducer to the world of Alphabets,
Architect of Mind,
Cast of Character
Aspiration of Dreams,
As a Tribute to you…
………… dedicate this poem.
Hope of Tomorrow,
Lantern of Wisdom,
Source of Knowledge,
Creator of Literates,
Destroyer of the Ignorance
Mother of Dynamic Leaders.
As a Tribute to you O dear Teacher
I wish to dedicate this poem.
The final exams are in the offing
Mugging and bugging in full swing
Burning the midnight oil
Stumble to go to the next class
…………
Youthful faces with awe in the look
Start the year with cheering sigh
I know each by name calling day and day out
Half yearly closes breaking half my heart
Reaching the wards as everlasting partners
Achieved by bricking inch by inch
Portions are over and prelims are done with
Gems are ready though not for sale
Comes the day call it farewell
Loading tonnes of grief into my heart
Students nay my children start
Praising me for anything and everything
Tears start rolling down my cheeks
Not that praise inebriates me
Fear of separation and pangs of love
Prick  the heart with pin’s precision
Comes the vacation and birds fly off
Corrections to care, I go on with papers
Letters show me the person behind
Making me smile and cry
With pain in the heart and
Gain of centum result
I allow my children
To jump to the next class
Time rolls by with mixed feeling
Reach the school to the same class
New faces new hopes new feelings
Another set of children to make me happy and sad!
A teacher is the best artist of the child.
He is also the real builder of our Nation.
If his statue fails, the child becomes wild.
Then, what about the future of our Nation?
Negligent teacher's children become bad.
This is a mysterious hit to him by Nature.
Life long the time-pass teacher will be sad.
Due to his useless children he sadly repents.
Teacher is blessed by God  if he teaches well.
He should think that every child is his own.
Tomorrow before God every teacher has to tell
In our society a good teacher is well known.
A careless teacher is cursed to go to hell.
A good teacher lives with a honored crown.
Father, mother, sister rolled into one,
nanny, lover, helper and adviser,
caretaker, watchmaker, great planner,
an innovator, inventor, trainer,
to describe my teacher.
Life is no private,
they consumed them for public,
all eyes  in focus,
for an err of no cost.
So much fund never fun,
more work never won,
plenty of debt never a death,
many hearts, often hurts.
Good follower but no power,
better will, never wail,
clean thoughts often taught,
best choice is there in naught.
a mover to be moved,
a model to unmold,
a conversationalist  for the least,
a personality for all us-best!
Thirteen years older
but hardly wiser
I return to my past
to find you
six months dead.
Still alive in this head
is memory of you
and our infamous
three days and nights
sustaining on
sunflowerseeds
and moonshine.
as we pissed the
hours & days
away
till I gave up
and went home
alone
to the biggest
hangovers ever.
You died
an alcoholic at
fourtyfive, and I
wonder at the
caurse of your
excessive
indifferent
recklessness.
Did someone
break your heart,
or did you just
loose faith in life
or yourself?
We toasted to
Night & Day
Black & White
Life & Death
Us & Them
This ones to
You.
The best possible words,
with the best possible meaning,
in the best possible order,
with the best possible structure,
in the best possible way.
That’s what I was once told poetry is.
But I pushed those boundaries,
and wrote in many different ways.
We should do poetry our own way,
no matter what anyone says.
The everyday duties of a teacher
Are as difficult as they can be,
Whether in an elementary or secondary school
Or whether the teacher is a he or she.
The teacher must possess a bundle of information,
A knowledge that will constantly shine,
And in addition must maintain class discipline
To keep all the students properly in line.
There are insurmountable number of questions
To be answered during every period of the day,
And test papers must be carefully graded when
The students leave and go merrily on their way.
The pleasures and encounters of an evening out
Are few and seldom to be socially shared,
Because the next day's lessons must have priority,
Be reviewed and lessons carefully prepared.
A  dedicated teacher gets a personal satisfaction
In this cumbersome and timeless atmosphere.
The role of a teacher is vital in this complex world,
Preparing all students for a future career.
bumped into my grandson's English teacher yesterday
at the football, and in between shouting like teenagers
I moaned about the state of A's Eng. Lit. not to mention Eng. Lang. -
you know, you've heard it all before... in my day.....never regretted....
he agreed, but said go easy on the lad he's only thirteen
they all want to be fifteen and grown up at that age,
they can't be seen by their peer-group to be 'for' anything too much
so they ridicule everything, it's either pretentious crap if it's modern
or stupid ancient crap if it's more than a generation ago...
they even call Shakespeare a sad loser until
someone says he wrote the screenplay for that film
though they're fascinated by the idea that Marlowe
was a spy as well as a crap writer not that they've read him anyway
but you know what he said
put them up on stage in the annual Shakespeare and make them
speak his lines, and they'll never forget it,
they'll not say anything about it to me except in private but
they'll remember it to their dying day it's things like that
he said that keep me in this bloody job.
(revisited)
For some, you may be the candle
But for me, you are the light
That showed me how to handle
Even the daunting without fright
For some, your eyes may be warm
But for me, they are bright
They showed me the right platform
Leading me to a greater height
For some, you may be spring
But for me, you are the flowers
That groomed me little wings
To fly higher than the towers
For some, you may be a teacher
But for me, you are an angel
And angel whom I’ll never forget
But for now, it is ‘farewell’
(written for the best teacher that has ever taught me...my ex-class teacher...Reena Rajesh)
24th february,2009
He was my instructor
In a college English class.
His stories took us to Italy
And the way women cry
At funerals.
To New York City
And the way homeless people
Walk with the best dressed ones.
Where the sound of
“Help he stole my purse”
Is heard frequently throughout the day.
To France where he enjoyed sitting at Cafés
Watching well dressed French women talk
Enjoying a language other than his own.
He told us of his joy of going to countries
Where he didn’t know that language very well
Just for some relaxation
Because as an English teacher
He was always listening to whether a person
Slaughtered the language or not.
In a foreign country
He didn’t have that problem
He could just be himself
Not a teacher looking for words
You left out, didn’t put in
Or used improperly.
It wasn’t that he was feeling superior to you
When he spotted your misuse of words.
It was that he wanted to sit down with you
And teach you exactly how to
Put your words on paper
So they would come out the best way they could.
Some people didn’t understand that
And really didn’t like him for his
Constructive criticism.
But I understood
Being always grateful
For his input
Even after my breakdown
When he said my writing was like
A Third graders.
He told me that he only wanted to help me
He didn’t normally take time with people
Who didn’t care about their writing.
He knew I cared
So he challenged me
To do better
Draft after draft.
He said he liked what I had to say
I just needed to say it better
And I was healed from my breakdown
After he said that.
Each time I hear him speak now
Or listen to a poem he reads
I am captivated again
By the way he strings words
To tell stories with meaning
Hoping that one day
I could be even half as
Good as him
With my words.
teacher o so wise all do cry of the
bounty sweet words flowing ever
from your lips.
teacher of the bright lights in Brazil
such students are thrilled by
your love of them.
teacher so skilled wayward the
path you haven chosen
to share.
teacher high in canopy tops from
the winds your hand does hold
the keys for tomorrow.
Teacher, its me now, I am full of you,
still you must teach me more, I wait..
With a special gift for learning
And with a heart that deeply cares,
You add a lot of love
To everything you share,
And even though
You mean a lot,
You’ll never know how much,
For you helped
To change the world
Through every life you touched.
You sparked the creativity
In the students whom you taught,
And helped them strive for goals
That could not be bought,
You are such a special teacher
That no words can truly tell
However much you’re valued
For the work you do so well.
I’m sitting in class,
My eyes about to close,
I hope teacher don’t see,
I hope she don’t see me.
Bored out of my mind,
Falling so behind,
Cannot concentrate,
I came to class too late.
Although I was on time,
My body was I mean,
My mind is still outside,
From class trying to hide.
What does all this mean?
I haven’t used it yet,
How can I retain it,
When already I forget?
And then she walks over,
That teacher of mine,
A smile in her eyes,
A gentle one at that,
She puts her hand on me,
And sets me kind of free.
Now here I am in class,
Learning about the past,
About history,
And what it did for me.
How we can learn,
From mistakes of old,
Of people so different,
Some so very bold.
Some stood against oppression,
Some stood against the wrong,
Some said it with dignity,
Some said it with a song.
I owe it to them,
And teacher here to hear,
What they did for us,
And no longer fear.
That knowledge is so dull,
No longer hurts my brain,
No longer hurts my skull,
It will surely keep me sane.
The past is the future,
Unless I stay awake,
So I can benefit,
There’s much more at stake.
Than I thought before,
Before I got to class,
Thank you History  teacher,
For bringing to life the past.
I never got bored in History class, because I had a wonderful History Teacher.  This is for her.
(1st place winner of Texas Career Association Poetry Contest 2010)
When I am done with school,
I am turning right back around
To teach and inspire others,
Just like my teachers have inspired me.
I will love each and every student:
I’ll listen to their problems,
Give them praise for the good they’ve done,
Congratulate them for awards they’ve won,
And have faith in each and every one.
I’ll be the teacher everyone loves:
Who smiles to everyone
And passes out hugs,
And encourage all my students
To excel above and beyond.
I’ll still be a student myself,
Learning lessons about life
With every day that passes by.
One is the mind, never bridged.
One is the mind of always, filled.
Man of sincere love
Great source of true knowledge
He is called a teacher.
Home is the first school and mother is the first teacher.
Parents are the builder of children's characters and minds.
The mother won't be a fighter but should be a well preacher.
If she is an illiterate she must carry her children to tuition.
Howsoever the mother should educate their children first.
And she should send her children to school daily and regularly.
Teachers are not blamed not to fulfil children's educational thirst.
Both the parents and teachers should make them the best citizens.
As we can't work with one hand likewise we can't walk with one leg.
Hence, parents and teachers are the same faces of the same coin.
If parents and teachers do them careless they suffer in life to beg.
Do well and have well it is said to see your own profit in life or ruin.
That is why parents and teachers are the best artists of the child.
If an art is spoilt the statue of the child looks like an ugly and a wild.
This is the first poem I have written.
----------------
If I become a teacher I will
Respect the children's every emotion,
I will teach in such a way,
That learning will be fun.
Everyone in the class will be
Encouraged at every bend,
In my class unfair things
Will definitely come to an end.
In my class I will
Conduct interesting experiments.
The children will always remember
Those happily spent moments.
No one in my class,
Will be beaten or scolded,
Every one will be
Taught properly instead.
Every one will be allowed to
Express their feelings with ease.
Every child will be willing to help
Children bad at studies.
Children who dread studies
Will be shown its positive side.
Then from studies
They will not try to hide.
There will be no reason
For anyone to feel left out.
For I will give everyone equal importance
Of this there is no doubt.
The children's aim will be
To achieve excellence, not success.
For this will ultimately lead them
To the path of happiness.
I love my teacher
He is full of life
I love my teacher
He doesn't cause any strife
I love my teacher
For he is full of light
I love my teacher
He is always bright
I love my teacher
For he doesn't get in a fight
And, I love my teacher
For he tells me to look on the side that's bright
One fine morning i went my school
To meet my teachers and friends
Saw what i never had seen in their
Totaly changed atmosphere!
A chapel was built in the ground
Additional constructions were in that.
Never think it could turned like this
I have re-collecting the olden days
Whare i saw my teacher Helda in the chapel
She prays not for her but for the dears
She is the lady of honour not only in the age
With her good heart too...
I know not of a man better than him
a man of morals and purity
my best teacher and example in life
I love him more than myself
he taught me how to be kind
and help the poor
I can't be a bad person,
when he is my teacher
I follow him in every single act
because he is the best teacher ever
never he lied and never rebuked anyone
he called for women and human rights,
thousand years ago.
I help the orphans and support charity,
because he is my best example.
he lightens my whole life
and I'm happy for having such a precious teacher
he is a timeless teacher,
a teacher of all ages
he is prophet Mohammed peace be upon him
You know your true friend when you are in most need
For like 'tis said such a friend is a friend indeed
One who stands by you when you are feeling down
A cash strapped and depressed poor soul of the town
'Tis when you are most in need your friend you come to know
You ask one you thought was a good mate for a small loan his answer to you no
One who is not short of money of which you are aware
Yet a ten dollar note for you he could not spare
Yet a person you did not know well one you had met a few times before
Gave you the ten dollars and asked did you need more
That this person is your friend you've come to realize
In life every day there is some new surprise
In retrospect in years from now you will recall
That those you thought were your friends not your friends after all
A lesson for us to be learned from life every day
Life is a great teacher it does seem that way.
Life is a puzzle that challenges the master mind
Life is a struggle
Life is commitment
Life is a mystery
Life is a goal- achieve it
Life is a dream to fulfil.
Life is an opportunity
life is a vow, fulfil it.
Life is a duty, perform it
Life is a dangerous game, that we play,
The sun and the rain shows the pleasure and pain.
Life is full of questions
Life is full of intentions
Life is full of elations
celebrations
inspirations
relax ation
acceleration
Life’s a gift with the one you trust
Life’s a gift when you spend it with the one you love
Life is a teacher, the more we live the more we learn.
L- Lovely. I- insightful. F- Full of joy. E – Enjoyable
Accept it.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to live.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to win.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to laugh.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to make other people cry.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to love.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to hate.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to win honour.
Life is a teacher, which teaches how to embarrass others.
Indeed, life is a great teacher as it teaches everything.
And in this very greatness lies life's weakness, that it teaches everything.
It teaches how to love, but also teaches how to hate.
It teaches how to help, but also teaches how to harm.
It teaches how to honour (others) , but also teaches how to embarrass (others) .
It teaches how to laugh, but also teaches how to make other people cry.
Wish life were a bit selective in its teaching.
But can't we be a bit selective in taking lessons?
Life, the perfect teacher,
has a lot for us to offer,
right from the time we first open our eye,
to when we close them to say 'goodbye',
adding wisdom with each experience,
we grow in ourselves the ambience,
we learn how to differ right from wrong,
and hence with each day grow strong,
we may certainly at times fall,
but life teaches us to stand tall,
we have many desires and dreams,
life teaches us to be agleam,
there may be times of sorrow,
but life shows us a better tomorrow,
at times we may give up,
life teaches us to again get up,
at times we may fail,
life teaches us how to avail,
Life, the perfect teacher,
teaches us what we are ! !
They say the years from one to five,
when tiny tots become alive,
li'l professors they are, really
as they take in and store so freely
an overload of information,
as if by heaven-sent dictation.
Those years of active acquisition
are followed by the earnest mission
of teachers in the local school
who teach even the dumbest fool.
And, if you want to know the reason
why some of us learn out of season,
continue to obtain the goods
about the why's and what's and should's,
in playgrounds and on dusty streets.
It's when your hungry, blue eye  meets
that of the teacher  to connect.
In a split second a direct
and lasting bond is herewith born.
And from that moment you are torn
between the world and your first love
when she regards you from above.
But if no spark arises there
the two of you will never share
a common path through those first years,
and when your graduation nears,
you'll say good bye with no regret,
as cool as on the day you met.
For those who do feel adoration,
in early years a fair sensation,
you will increase your own IQ
because you understand the true
sweet essence of your little mind.
You learn to count, to write and find
that teacher's eyes are your reward.
When other pupils do act bored
you whip your mental faculties
for one good reason, it's to please
the one who does appreciate
your intellect in a debate.
You learn a trillion silly facts
about strange wars and secret pacts.
And, in the end, when you're all grown
it is as if you'd always known.
Your parents spend with you their days,
but seldom shower you with praise.
You learn for life, say those who know,
not for the school system, oh no.
But mine was such a lovely creature,
I did my thing just for the teacher.
She has blond hair,
Her smile is pink.
She comes from America,
I come  from China.
She has blue eyes,
I have black.
She eats suger cane on Christmas,
I prefer Jiaozi at Spring Festival.
She is my English teaher,
I am her lovely student.
I heard that she would read the Bible everyday.
I noticed that when December is coming around,
She will be wearing the Christmas clothes all the time,
I felt that she is old enough to tell me the secret of life.
She looks so young and energetic,
She looks so amazing.
On Chistmas Day,
She wearing the earrings of gold christmas tree,
Told me,
'You can enjoy the big merriment of this day! '
God will give you anything you like,
If you believe in him.
Learn to be a choice for God.
My ice cold blood
[you're not a warm-blooded creature]
Your ice cold stare
Is my HISTORY TEACHER
I sewed my heart up one little stich at a time
One shotty job done, it is true, but I
couldn't do it by myself, you coulda done the rest
But you went and ripped it right outta my chest
My ice cold blood
[you're not a warm-blooded creature]
Your ice cold stare
Is my HISTORY TEACHER
I wasn't even finished
I needed more thread
I got distracted by the
'Good' ideas you put in my head
My ice cold blood
[you're not a warm-blooded creature]
Your ice cold stare
Is my HISTORY TEACHER
You remind me of my delicate past
You remind me I'm good for nothing
You tell me that you love me[lies]
And remind me I wont be anything
My ice cold blood
[you're not a warm-blooded creature]
Your ice cold stare
Is my HISTORY TEACHER
You make me remeber what I've done
Because you make me remember I have no friends
You make me remeber It's all my fault
For making my happiness end
My ice cold blood
[you're not a warm-blooded creature]
Your ice cold stare
Is my HISTORY TEACHER
My ice cold blood
[you're not a warm-blooded creature]
Your ice cold stare
Is my HISTORY TEACHER
I again try to write for him
To tell him how I feel
And again my thoughts just fall off the page
None of the poetic leaves of my tree
Of feeling for him come back into play when
The pen hits the paper
He says I stroke his confidence
He will one day pin mine down
As the stars were playing tag team with my eyes
He was with my heart
Looking deep in to my heart
Looking deep in to my soul
Through the sexy curves of the letter O
For being so far away that’s all we have for now
In he’s charming poetic way he tells me that he cares for me
Oh yes from now until forever
The forever that’s beyond the sea
Beyond the ears can hear
And beyond the heart can break
I will care for him
So different from the others
They just wanna use me as their toy or for their joy
They just make me cry
Take advantage of my great desire and deceive my young mind
To get what they want
Not him
He is the one that calls me his princess
He is the one that has cute nick names for me
That makes me smile
Within his clever words
The feeling of I’m high starts in my eyes
The smile emerges on my face
The butterflies try to charge though my stomach
The need the desire becomes so great for him
He is my silent teacher
Teaches me what’s right and
What’s ever so wrong without even a sound
He will teach me so many things I’m sure of it
Things of mystery that I already know and
Some that are still a mystery to me
For he is my silent teacher
Waiting to fill me up with his hard and thrusting knowledge
And I am willing to take all of it in
Many times a day
my teacher ate my homework,
which i thought was rather odd.
he sniffed at it and smiled,
and gave a thoughtful chew.
I think he must have liked it,
for he really went to town.
He licked off all his fingers,
gave a burp and said, 'You pass.'
I guess that's how they grade you
when you're in a cooking class.
Books are confusing
.Exams are tentioning.
But u are never bussy
To make it easy
U help me find my fire
Though i was big liar
Dared to disciplined us
Though we were abandoned
We use swear words on ur back.
Still u show lack of anger on ur face.
Sometime strict to make us fit.
Cuz u are the best teacher in world.
Ur lil' appreciating words
Are like torn apart from heaven
In a hand of gift teacher
A class room is a magical placd
There's smile on each child's facd
So heaven never call them back
Cuz my teacher is best in world
Justin bieber cody simpson
Taylor swift greyson chance
All in side when my teacher is in sight.
Hipocrates, socrates
All are senseless
Shakespear william wordsworth
All are wordless
Dawn of each poets and scientist
Begins with teacher.
Without my teacher
They are voiceless.
Cuz my teacher is best in the world.
Hey teacher i want to give
U round of applause
Cuz u got us fell in love
With the books
That were never in our looks.
U deserve a standing ovation
Cuz u 're the act of forgiveness and love. My best friend.
That's why i say my teacher is
The BEST IN WORLD.
Thank you!
I am back with Komal Sujeet,
I told you she is extremly sweet.
She made my life heaven,
She showed me rainbow colours all seven.
She is dazzingly beautiful,
Her eyes never look frightful.
I love her,
Because her hairs are like soft fur.
I told her 'I am fed up n want to die',
She told me'No, You have to fly'.
I see hre in all my dreams,
She always do something to stop my screams.
When I'll be the owner f KM compony,
I'll be the poorest even having so much money.
(I'll losse YOU!)
Each one has an important part
They guided us all the way
Each one has a place in my heart
For being there each day
Good role models to everyone
You never stopped believing
When we're sorry for what we've done
They are always so forgiving
When there's something we can't understand
They never stopped trying
Always ready to lend a hand
To help keep us from falling
Thank you teachers, you're always there
Every time I needed a friend
I enjoy the moments we share
I hope our moments would never end
Dear teachers, so sweet and kind
Look how fast the time has fly
Teachers like you I shall never find
But I will never say goodbye
As the sun shines so we make our hay,
Knowing that it is not here to stay,
And that soon it will fade away,
For as the dawn comes so will the day,
For patience and hope we pray,
That the light we follow will never stray,
Our trust and future i their hands we lay,
Waiting for their teachings and inspiration as a pay,
Like clay, in the hands of a potter,
Is like our lives in their hands they say,
And if we try to fool them at to play,
They will mould us into whatever they may,
And the path they will lead us might slay,
So we do as they say,
And follow the whole way.
the teacher talks
the teacher thinks im listening
the teacher is my friend
the teacher it my worse nitemare
my teacher is my mom
my teacher is just someone who
wont leave me alone.
Same smiling face of his
Same eyes falling on me
Of twenty years gone days
Panorama displayed before me.
I couldn't believe my eyes
Nor my mind could utter' Yes'
My teacher I found in one Daily
Under bold word 'Obituary'
Impounded within a square box.
I found my teacher seeing me
Teaching me.....
Advising me......
Narrating me the fallen fate
And being pasted.
Unnerved I was;
The Envelope carrying parcel gift
Bearing his address from within my bag
Pinched me...
For I was in the counter
Posting thro' courier
A souvenir for his deeds
For coining me of the day
Wishing Him 'Long-Live'
For the next Day was
The Day to remember- salute his stature;
The teacher's day...
The 5th.September.
My teacher is my knowledge bank
If I do not know anything,
I do not hesitate, I am always free & frank…
My teacher motivates me a lot....
That actually helps me,
To improve my power of thought...
When my teacher says, “Well done! ”
I get thrilled, I feel flattered...
I never like to show her my home work undone...
When I forget my lunch, she shares her tiffin
When I am tired, I feel sleepy,
She does not mind to write my next day’s routine...
My teacher never scolds me if I am wrong...
Rather she shows me the way
How to make that part strong....
I always want to impress my teacher...
Not only in studies but everywhere,
Every day I want to perform better...
I love my teacher, I respect her a lot
I should never disobey her
As she teaches me what to do and what not...
today my teacher she ask me to come up front.
after the others had left come and see.
receiving only cee's i did.
my skirt from the year before.
private schools.
when my parents were
not as they red currently are.
our finances.
bee's maybe, exchanged for an a.
fat subtle and strangled it is thick.
and so long was the finger that, shaking i.
'My teacher wasn't half as nice as yours seems to be.
His name was Mister Unsworth and he taught us history.
And when you didn't know a date he'd get you by the ear
And start to twist while you sat there quite paralysed with fear.
He'd twist and twist and twist your ear and twist it more and more.
Until at last the ear came off and landed on the floor.
Our class was full of one-eared boys. I'm certain there were eight.
Who'd had them twisted off because they didn't know a date.
So let us now praise teachers who today are all so fine
And yours in particular is totally divine.'
Anika awakens the child in me,
I watch her, as she fetches her toys
And shows off with pride and glee
With her, I don’t have to act poised.
I know, she is actually aware,
Whether am really having fun
Or just pretending to be there.
She never walks, always runs.
Chasing the butterflies and bees
With her frock flying in the air,
I run after her to ensure and see
She may not fall but she couldn’t care.
She dances with sheer abandon,
She hasn’t yet discovered fear.
Her infectious joy fills me with sudden
Energy, I boldly invite her and declare,
Come on let’s play hide and seek.
I call out and just pretend to look all over
I can see her, from behind the bush stealthily peak
Finally catch her, as she bursts in peels of laughter.
Why the child in me had slept for so long?
I guess we are too busy chasing our dreams
And forget to enjoy small pleasures as we go along,
Each mile stone drives us to go full steam,
We go on increasing our pace,
And slowly become sombre and tense.
A smile is replaced by a grimace,
And become adept at keeping the pretence.
She has taught me how to enjoy and be free,
Drool at the sight of a strawberry ice cream
And clap and shout licking it full of glee,
As if eating it was like fulfilling a long lost dream.
I have no clue how long I was lost in reverie,
I was suddenly embraced in a warm hug
She had noiselessly come behind me.
Who needs an anti anxiety drug,
Once you discover the child in you lying latent
And connect with innate sense of joy and pleasure
It is a gift given to the grand parents
By a grandchild, for ever to treasure.
Teacher, teacher, teacher,
you don't be a preacher,
and never be a searcher,
I will become a researcher,
Madame always I mischief,
Still, you give relief,
Never you have punished,
If work not finished,
Class, always I miss,
Make I noise hiss,
I get up and ask miss,
Making nuisance for a piss,
You still not get angry,
Allow me to go if feel hungry,
I have a good rapport,
With your full support,
The whole day I play,
Mingle with dirt and also clay,
Still, I pass it as a good day,
No lessons are done and books at bay,
I will be clever and also naughty,
But never I trouble when feeling thirsty,
Learn the lessons by heart,
Make effort double to look smart,
I may not care and also respect,
Teacher and senior when they inspect,
Still, you never mention to my parents,
Never put remarkAnd also prevent,
Still, I not realize and continue to grow,
If a teacher isnot around whistle I blow,
Still, I find love and enough care,
Not good at study and not aware,
Should I fare badly never do a mail?
Papa and mummy may rush by rail,
They will take me home if I fail,
Put me in the room to serve in jail,
I make you a promise to be a good boy,
Learn and work hard and never make ploy,
My parents may get angry and not offer toy
So teacher please you not make them annoy
Hasmukh Mehta
Oh teacher, Oh teacher!
My test isn't signed
Because somehow
My parents went blind
Now, don't say it's my fault,
They left their hands in the bank vault.
Oh teacher, Oh teacher
Do you know why
I was born without wings
And so cannot fly
Thus I am late
Didn't have breakfast,
So if you don't mind,
Pass me a plate.
Oh teacher, Oh teacher!
I've failed again
Please don't scold me,
Now  you'll see why,
I was thinking about
Having an eagle's brain.
teacher
please
be my guide
teacher
please
be my side
teacher
please
be my candle
It is the colour of seven threaded in one;
As that of a free silk gown, before the eyes of poor!
It is a greeting to earth through clouds;
With its curved eyebrow!
It is the art and tact of nature;
Where it can't be learnt by any other means!
It is the anchor to give us the happiness;
That can be dissolved neither in air nor in water!
It is adorned in the sky to show us;
The path of nature and its divine silence!
It is the jewel made up of haze;
To welcome the guest- rainfall!
It is a boon, given to us;
For the long penance of our eyes!
It is the wonder, pointed out in a single finger;
Whenever we peep above the sky!
It is the garland from heaven's holy fairies;
To destroy the disparity among men!
It is a glorious gift from nature;
For it appears the same to everyone!
Relation Between Teacher And Student Is Like,
The Relation Between Potter And His Pot,
Like Them Teachers Also,
To Their Student, Loves A Lot.
Potter Jump On The Clay For Benefit
Of It,
Teachers Also Beat Their Student,
For Their Creativity To Lit.
Then Potter, To Clay, Give A Shape,
Teachers Also Give Their Students
Life Shape But It Required,
Good Co-Ordination Between Them Not The Measuring Tape.
Then The Pots And Students,
Are Ready To Go In Market For Sale,
But If They Forget Their Teachers,
By Me, In Their Life, They Fail……….
Relation Between Teacher And Student Is Like,
The Relation Between Potter And His Pot,
Like Them Teachers Also,
To Their Student, Loves A Lot.
Potter Jump On The Clay For Benefit
Of It,
Teachers Also Beat Their Student,
For Their Creativity To Lit.
Then Potter, To Clay, Give A Shape,
Teachers Also Give Their Students
Life Shape But It Required,
Good Co-Ordination Between Them Not The Measuring Tape.
Then The Pots And Students,
Are Ready To Go In Market For Sale,
But If They Forget Their Teachers,
By Me, In Their Life, They Fail……….
I loved to be a Medical-Teacher;
My Teacher Father was my role model;
His scholarliness was his great feature;
His greatness words can never truly tell.
A Teacher tells whatever, he has known;
And moulds the conduct, character of wards;
He guides his pupils like his very own;
And expects never earthly just rewards.
A Teacher stays a Teacher forever;
None can replace his place uniquely held;
His students must be brighter and clever,
And when that happens, he is much reveled.
The students imbibe Teacher's noble thought;
To hand the same to progeny, they ought.
Mother Nature’s the best teacher we know,
Teaching both young and old without a fee;
Through flora, fauna and all creatures, oh!
Her lessons being unique, naturally.
Vowels, consonants, she shows to utter;
Her music is most melodious to ears;
And anyone in her lap learns better,
Than what classrooms can teach them o’er the years.
A loving Mother Nature is to all!
She soothes their minds and mends their broken hearts;
A friend and guide and playmate, one can call,
Who shares her hidden secrets in small parts.
So, go to Mother Nature, learn a lot;
No teacher betters her in any slot.
The Teacher isn’t a source of mere knowledge;
Neither is he a passive transmitter;
He frees the creative bird from the hedge,
And makes his students face their lives fitter.
The Teacher helps the student’s mind to grow,
In optimal a way, that’s possible;
The students needn’t the Teacher’s line just tow;
Curiosity that’s born is sensible.
His teaching methods must well suit young minds;
The doubts of students must be respected;
By introspection, every student finds
His strengths and weaknesses/ what’s expected?
Well, Teachers remove society’s evils,
Harnessing creativity of pupils.
Just when I am attempting
To write on Vedas and Upanishads;
Comprehending the status of a Guru,
The powerful role of an exemplary teacher,
And just wondering
Whether such reverence
Still existed in this modern age?
Referred to by the Upanishads,
And other ancient texts of India:
I get an answer through this book
"Zenobia Mistri
Teacher Par Excellence."
Here is a rare tribute by an earnest student,
Shireen Isal,
To her beloved French teacher -
Zenobia Mistri,
who lived a long, rich life
Contributing generously to education,
By teaching a beautiful language,
Propagating the culture of a romantic land,
Most diligently and passionately,
For over five decades,
To numerous of students in Bombay and Poona,
Today, its value spread in different parts of the world.
The book covers the life story of Zenobia
With the fragrance of love and respect
By the ever faithful and grateful student,
Right from her birth in Karachi,
Born to Jamshedji and Goolbanoo,
A well educated Parsi family,
Who migrated to Bombay with their six daughters.
Zenobia, their third daughter became one of the most
Renowned teachers of her time creating a powerful legacy,
A celebration of beauty in language, literature and poetry.
She was a committed teacher who reached out
To her students with the warmth of a generous soul.
Zenobia majored in French from the famed St Xavier's college
And later, did her D.LITT. in Paris.
After her return to India, and while working as a teacher in Poona
She met Pirosha Mistry.
At the age of forty four, Zenobia married Pirosha Mistry
Who was sixty five, almost twenty years her senior.
It was a happy marriage which Zenobia
Termed as ‘sixteen golden years of her life'.
Besides teaching, Zenobia devoted her time
And energy to charitable work
For the poor, sick and under privileged.
She keenly pursued woman's education and their progress.
Later in life, she became fascinated
With the teachings of Sri Aurobindo.
Zenobia became a regular visitor
To Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Pondicherry
And became a great devotee of the Mother.
The rest of her life was spent
On a spiritual quest,
A journey to conquer the inner world
Of truth and objective of life,
A journey that rewarded her
With inner peace and tranquillity,
Before her final journey to the heavens above.
Shireen Isal, my friend
Speaks, reads and writes excellent French
I have heard her speak this musical language
And was always reminded of the princess
In Grimm's Fairy tales,
How when she spoke, pearls fell out of her mouth.
The sweet language of French is made sweeter
When she speaks with such eloquence and grace.
I wondered!
If the student is so good
Then, how wonderful must have been the teacher
Who taught her this exquisite, sweet, French language!
Teaches me good things
Every single day
All through the year.
Cares for me
Helps me in my work
Each day with her is fun.
Real fun indeed!
My mother is
Home
Teacher...
My
Teacher is
School
Mother....
My
< br>Father is
Home
Teacher...
My
Teacher is
School father...
Female or male...
Not differnet for
Love...
And Teaching....
Any thing fals...?
No problem....!
The Teacher Man teaches kids from all over the world
The Teacher Man  teaches no matter boy or girl
The Teacher Man teaches Christians, Muslims, and Jews
The Teacher Man teaches those who say 'God I don't believe in you'
The Teacher Man teaches over demands for more recess
The Teacher Man  teaches to only demand the best
The Teacher Man teaches Science, Reading, and Math
The Teacher Man teaches how to live out of class
The Teacher Man teaches all how to share
The Teacher Man teaches that we all should care
The Teacher Man teaches how to keep an open mind
The Teacher Man teaches with a kick in the behind
The Teacher Man teaches there are lessons in life
The Teacher Man teaches how to overcome strife
The Teacher Man teaches there's nothing wrong with a hug
The Teacher Man teaches the world changes with Love
The Teacher Man  teaches the rich and the poor
The Teacher Man  teaches those who are ready for more
The Teacher Man  teaches how to look someone in the eye
The Teacher Man teaches how to accept someone in their cry
The Teacher Man teaches in more than one tongue
The Teacher Man teaches how to make working hard fun
The Teacher Man teaches all the colors of the land
But, most important of all, he teaches we should take a stand
Take a Stand, Take a Stand, for what you believe
Take a Stand, Take a Stand, and you will be free
Take a Stand, Take a Stand, for the least of the least
Take such a Stand, and you will find peace
He's the Teacher Man
With a caring mind and noble heart,
You teach us the life’s art.
Taking on a tough task,
You bring us on the life’s path.
Each day we see you,
We learn a new thing,
Which adds to our quality,
Like a little ding,
Inspired by your dignity, love and compassion.
Each time we come to you,  you act as a parent.
Each time we come to you,  you impart your talent.
You shape our personality, teach us the reality and
You build our confidence.
You took this path in your life,
To enlighten the path of ours,
Building up our life.
Teaching us attitudes,
And we pay with gratitude.
Without you we are not who we are,
Without you we are not what we are.
No words can express our thanks,
No gifts can express our gratitude,
Or the love that we have for you.
So, the least we can do is honor this day to every teacher to assure that,
You live in our hearts now and forever! !
Happy Teacher's Day!
Teacher
An occupation of worthiness,
An occupation of respect.
Teacher, a person who tells us everything
A student who wants to learn with him, everything
He knows very well about our future,
We could succeed if we have a devoted teacher,
We try to hide the dreadful things which we come across,
But the teacher knows everything, what is the matter all a 	propos…
He has a loving heart, and pardons us whatever we do.
So kind he is, and tell all the important what we are about to 	do.
Students try to touchier the teacher, and think we could get 	away,
A teacher is our parent, and is the key of heavens gate…!
I disgraced my teacher, so sorry what I did to him
Please forgive me, as a student I can’t study without him!
Written By;
Ashar Owais
'That will teach you! '
He learnt how to
hit his wife
from his Dad
who hit his
and his Dad his.
And his mother hit him
glad this time not to be the victim.
Whether it be fist in face
knee in belly
or the bitter welt from a belt
violence sleeps quitely
and dreams
of the people it will
come alive in.
All down the years
it mutates from person to person
face to face
not paying attention
to gender or age
or who hits who or why
as long as there is someone
to cry
'....no...please! '
And there is no one to hear
you screaming.
Teacher teacher, fairest of all,
Tell us what leaves will dropp in the fall?
Orange, yellow, red you say,
What new math will you give today?
Three squared times 2 and x + four,
Why is the principal at our door?
To collect our bills for the English trip,
How did bad emperors in Rome just FLIP?
They stole from the kingdom, teacher said.
From which side do children make their bed?
Right to left, and up then down.
Teachers says stop being a clown.
My teacher is fairest, fairest of all,
WAIT! What'd you say, I'm Tom and not Paul!
(Even teachers make mistakes.☻ ;)
The teacher taught;
The pupils never bought the notion.
Now distraught, he
Slammed the door,
Stomped the floor,
Seeing red.
The noise, the
Whole commotion,
Brought the Head.
‘You need your bed - you're full o' drink! '
He boomed.
‘Cripes! ' the teacher cried
- A stink of booze across the room -
‘You mean that I'm denied
My nightly bottle, comfy whisky?
I'll have to throttle naughty you.
Risky, true -
To see you dead! '
By now the kids had left the room -
Smoking - drunk - singing in the bogs.
‘Annoying little dogs! ' Our teacher screamed,
Dropping the Head -
His face completely cyanotic,
The situation now chaotic.
‘Now that'll do, ' the teacher laughed.
‘I might be daft, but I'm alive
To preach again - surviving those vicissitudes of life:
The challenges; laying down the
Lessons to the brats -
I'm the boss, they're the rats! Give ‘em strife!
I'll make ‘em take exams
Throughout the night - what a fright
They'll have. But first I'll round ‘em up to
To shift the Head.'
They dumped him in the garden shed
Behind the mower
And other paraphernalia
Used to keep the grounds in order.
The kids were good - no disorder
While they did the master's evil deed.
The teacher smiled; he'd been freed
From persecution, diminution
Of his rank: a lowly grade of scholar.
‘Thank you, pupils, what an honour,
Now the Head has gone,
But now I have to see to your
Extinction too.  After all, you
Never listen - never do!
And so it's time for you to earn
A just reward - a trip to Hell! '
However, the kids were luckily saved -
Yes, you guessed - the clanging bell that
Ended period two. Depraved and
Sweating like a pig, the teacher
Froze - took a swig anew of gin -
The Deputy Head was coming over:
Teacher had to wipe him out
As well!
The pupils took advantage: scampered,
Screaming.
Finely poised, the Deputy
Crooned: ‘What's the meaning, Teacher-?
And where's the Head, suspicious creature?
Answers came from Teacher's cane -
The heavy-duty rod was in attack -
Poor old Deputy staggered back -
A massive blow had bruised him badly.
Sadly, as he fell, he bashed his skull
Upon the ground - and that is where
The janitor found his body -
What a sight - pitifully shoddy!
But then the pupils cottoned on:
Should they call upon the staff
To see the teacher one-to-one,
The kids would end up having fun,
Since all the school would have to close,
As all the staff would come to blows with
Psycho-Sam -
The name the kids had given to this
Strange demented man.
So that is what they did -
The faculty, sequentially,
Exterminated;
The kids were rid of staff and
Free to roam, though
The teacher lost all interest and
Drove himself back home.
Knocking back a litre bottle of gin, he
Sung a song about the sin
Committed - emitting a din -
And what grin - hideous!
He even wondered where he'd been
Upon that brutal day.
Back at school, in disarray,
The kids were happily psyched again,
Smoking funny cigs, or eyeing adult flicks -
It's how they got their kicks!
At least they weren't a bane
To any staff -
What a laugh!
Copyright © Mark R Slaughter 2010
< br>
< br>
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher teacher
Teacher was
Learn the
Black board...
Students was
speaking
Cinima story...
School bell
Ringing for
Lunch break...
The black board
Teaching the teacher
How to the time pass? ? ? ! ! !
Student  are very busy
For cinima story...
I ask a question
And am showered in grace
My tongue wags
And there is no answer
I am silent
And there are no questions
Only the inner love
That knows all the answers.
Before the questions were born.
I approach him with an empty heart
And he fills it with good tidings
I offer him blind words
And he gives them eyes
I offer him my dumb tongue
And he speaks eloquence in essence
He takes my tears as full stops
And breathes new life in old meanings,
I cannot find the words
But thankfulness;
Speaks without end.
Teacher says,
teacher goes,
teacher smiles,
teacher knows,
what you have done,
was clearly a mistake,
maybe it is,
time for a break.
Teacher says,
teacher goes,
teacher smiles,
teacher knows,
that you have been naughty.
That you have been quite foughty.
That you are being rude,
don't call teacher a dude.
Teacher says,
teacher goes,
teacher smilies,
teacher know,
that you were making faces,
behind teachers back,
that you were throwing spitballs,
at the teacher's pet.
Teacher says,
teacher goes,
teacher smiles,
teacher knows.
So enough is said,
so now you know,
that whatever you do.....
Teacher says,
Teacher goes,
Teacher smilies,
Teacher knows
Teacher is a soldier with a pen and an eternal guide
Lighting wisdom to mind decayed and white,
Floating tirelessly till dark with no pride,
Without fear and favor telling tales bright.
To clean the dirt river flows and air floats,
To vibrate heart and mind he gloats.
‘Tween goddess Sarswati and man he is linking milk,
Giving life to the world with deepest think.
As blessed banyan with roots, side by side,
Withstand winter, storm, wind and tide,
Beauty he admires and goodness wide,
Word and language such as teacher ride,
He will turn dust to gold, if his ways not hide,
And rake a soul with favorite manifold glide.
FROM:
DR. YOGESH SHARMA
Deltona, Florida  32725
Columbia, MD 21044
The Teacher Is The Teacher's Teacher:
Original 10 20 2010
Some drown in hydrolyzed clouds
Some fall with the rains' wiping away
All progress made let fade into top soils
Wet bloody mud from trampling up the
King's vaunted highway to that
End where order of tables care
For regeneration in my Grandson's blood
All school seats taken are seats of despair
That I am here and you are there despite
The rules of passion and the roads
Of unenlightened homes where fair made
Immunities out of the comfort of our beds
My boy classified as one of the
Little People - an adorable youth
Observer at the recesses
His light is an observable new Advanced
Placement reflection on the theater of
Our roles on the stages of the comedies
Portrayed in crowded rooms full of
Achievers and audience participants
Some swim the firmament's waters
To the ending catholical marathons.
Lee Mack copyright 2009. ISBN # 0615318347. Do not reproduce without permission.
Teacher, teacher, teacher, teach me now
Teacher, teacher, teacher, guide me now
Teacher, teacher, teacher, show the way
You are my light
You are my guide.
Teacher, teacher, teacher, comfort me
Give your listening ears when I cry
Help me find the strength in what I can
You are my help
You are my guide.
Teacher, teacher, teacher, build me up
When I do wrong, show me what is right
Teacher, teacher, teacher, let us laugh
You are my friend
You are my guide.
Pat was the coolest teacher I ever knew.
My kids adored him.
He hated hypocrisy
and cant.
Pat loved kids.
Had two of his own
and a wife called Jan
whom he didn't like much.
Actually Pat didn't like ANY grown ups
very much.
He was belligerently left wing
(got into politics later)
Hated injustice
and most grown ups.
He used word conversations
to teach kids to read.
Let them use rude words too -
like bum and fart.
First time I saw him
he was covered with kids -
reading Mr Silly on the old couch.
He had a curly beard,
long hair tied in a rubber band
and blue eyes that really twinkled.
When he took the kids
to the local oval to play cricket
he always guaranteed a draw.
Said no one should take sport
too seriously.
Pat was the coolest teacher I ever knew.
My kids adored him.
He hated hypocrisy
and cant.
Some people said he was rude
(I suppose he was) .
From under light pink silken gown
arose, his silly face a grin
Rudolph the red-nose circus clown
and   asked about a nip of gin.
He had employed a French curette
to scrape the endometrium
it's where you really have to get
the slightest scrap out of the womb.
I know all you lascivious minds
it was a medical procedure
although he stayed, pulled down the blinds
as after all he was a teacher.
I  bumped into my grandson's English teacher yesterday
at the football, and in between shouting like teenagers
I moaned about the state of A's Eng. Lit. not to mention Eng. Lang. -
you know, you've heard it all before... in my day.....never regretted....
he agreed, but said go easy on the lad he's only thirteen
they all want to be fifteen and grown up at that age,
they can't be seen by their peer-group to be 'for' anything too much
so they ridicule everything, it's either pretentious crap if it's modern
or stupid ancient crap if it's more than a generation ago...
they even call Shakespeare a sad loser until
someone says he wrote the screenplay for that film
though they're fascinated by the idea that Marlowe
was a spy as well as a crap writer not that they've read him anyway
but you know what he said
put them up on stage in the annual Shakespeare and make them
speak his lines, and they'll never forget it,
they'll not say anything about it to me except in private but
they'll remember it to their dying day it's things like that
he said that keep me in this bloody job.
Never he showed the maps and globes to the boys.
His sudden entry scared them in the room.
Straddling his bike, he flew with a deafening noise.
To stop the smiles of the urchins, he'd loom.
He'd be going ratty if the boys said jokes.
To shun criticism, enough were his looks.
He'd stop teaching if a sore throat made croaks.
His wild punishment alarmed the young crooks.
Loud teaching he spurned as he was wont to read books.
Life
Has turned out to be
The greatest teacher
I have ever known
The greatest teacher of all
Is our Lord, Jesus Christ
The kindest teacher of all
Is our Lord, Jesus Christ
The meekest teacher of all
Is our Lord, Jesus Christ
The most loving teacher of all
Is our Lord, Jesus Christ
So I can boldly say,
That I love my teacher, Jesus Christ
The last of the group is a teacher.
A history teacher to be in fact.
And I know many hate the study of history,
But there are some who just love his classes.
He is young and loves to shout.
Calling you by nicknames if you have one.
He is a kind man to some.
And hard on the others.
His classes are required so you must see him
At least twice in your high school career.
He cares for his students and loves to have fun in his classes.
He is one of those teachers, who you don't make mad,
Of fear of being yelled at.
He tells his students he loves them at the end of his classes.
He says third hour is the best.
But we all know better to believe that.
He calls us all sausages.
He is kind and is willing to work with students.
His essays are fun and hard all at the same time.
He shouts at us to make them two hundred words,
And no less than two hundred.
He is a strange man,
Dresses as he wants and never really a care in the world.
He loves his job and the kids who seem to care.
This man is in search of the Milky Way.
Not the one we may see in the sky at night.
No the one that tastes like heaven.
With it's rich chocolate and its caramel delight.
That little cherub sitting there
With eager eyes and expectant air
Who knows what he may become...
Perhaps a doctor, lawyer, preacher
Policeman, executive, senator or 'rep'
He could blossom into another good teacher.
He might even become our President
Or be well-equipped for other walks in life.
That little one may prove to be
History's essential vital link
Because a good teacher made him-- think!
Looking back on
yesterday,
caught by
rules of life.
I am a
product
emerging from
ashes
somewhat like
the phoenix.
ever returning
stablizing,
once more
surviving.
being taught
by the master
teacher,
one will not
forget.
he prides himself about
this job
where he is all wise
and his students listen
he drives the points
like he's the hammer to
his nails
somehow the old teacher
listens
it is not supposed to
be
he picks a snail
a house actually where the hermit
crab lives
he whistles and the crab comes
out
learning the song of the
master
the wind, soft as breeze
the openness like the wide gate
of the morning sun
between the breasts of the hills
Here's the rule for what to do
If ever your teacher has the flu
Or for some other reason takes to her bed
And a different teacher comes instead
When the visiting teacher hangs up her hat
Writes the date on the board, does this or that
Always remember, you have to say this,
OUR teacher never does that, Miss!
When you want to change places or wander about
Or feel like getting the guinea pig out
Never forget, the message is this,
OUR teacher always lets us, Miss!
Then, when your teacher returns next day
And complains about the paint or clay
Remember these words, you just say this:
That OTHER teacher told us to, Miss!
Some drown in hydrolyzed clouds
Some fall with the rains’ wiping away
All progress made let fade into top soils
Wet bloody mud from trampling up the
King’s vaunted highway to that
End where order of tables care
For regeneration in my Grandson’s blood
All school seats taken are seats of despair
That I am here and you are there despite
The rules of passion and the roads
Of unenlightened homes where fair made
Immunities out of the comfort of our beds
My boy classified as one of the
Little People -an adorable youth
Observer at the recesses
His light is an observable new Advanced
Placement reflection on the theater of
Our roles on the stages of the comedies
Portrayed in crowded rooms full of
Achievers and audience participants
Some swim the firmament’s waters
To the ending catholic marathons.
Here alone with all I profess
A faith, a belief in some systems of thought
Professors and priests, mystics and bards
All were often one I confess.
There were some unlettered men
Who knew more than the savants, then
There were bards who could sing and swear
And find their way to your heart there.
There were wild poppies dancing
Wild horses prancing
The teacher of all I know
Came for a few  seasons
Then went for his own benighted reasons.
There was  life’s blood and show
The poetry and pain and pageantry's stream
Whirled around in a fevered dream
Life was what it did not seem
Thus taught the  teacher of all I know.
The child is ahead of me,
he is jogging faster than me.
But why he is turning back and looking at me?
I love his half eyes on me.
Is like me he is also recollecting the past
when running faster than him
I had been ahead of him,
and I used to turn back my half eyes
looking at the child behind.
I am now waiting when the child learns
to be loving and kind
to the weaker.
I am sure soon he will be jogging like waves
besides decelerating his speed
and the grandfather will overtake his grandchild.
The teacher is confident this jogging will end in a caress.
He is my student bless him my God, bless!
Bless us with a golden moment
when the student becomes a teacher of his teacher!
From his childhood he had been as one filled with the perfect
knowledge of God, and even while he was yet but a lad many of the
saints, as well as certain holy women who dwelt in the free city of
his birth, had been stirred to much wonder by the grave wisdom of
his answers.
And when his parents had given him the robe and the ring of manhood
he kissed them, and left them and went out into the world, that he
might speak to the world about God. For there were at that time
many in the world who either knew not God at all, or had but an
incomplete knowledge of Him, or worshipped the false gods who dwell
in groves and have no care of their worshippers.
And he set his face to the sun and journeyed, walking without
sandals, as he had seen the saints walk, and carrying at his girdle
a leathern wallet and a little water-bottle of burnt clay.
And as he walked along the highway he was full of the joy that
comes from the perfect knowledge of God, and he sang praises unto
God without ceasing; and after a time he reached a strange land in
which there were many cities.
And he passed through eleven cities. And some of these cities were
in valleys, and others were by the banks of great rivers, and
others were set on hills. And in each city he found a disciple who
loved him and followed him, and a great multitude also of people
followed him from each city, and the knowledge of God spread in the
whole land, and many of the rulers were converted, and the priests
of the temples in which there were idols found that half of their
gain was gone, and when they beat upon their drums at noon none, or
but a few, came with peacocks and with offerings of flesh as had
been the custom of the land before his coming.
Yet the more the people followed him, and the greater the number of
his disciples, the greater became his sorrow. And he knew not why
his sorrow was so great. For he spake ever about God, and out of
the fulness of that perfect knowledge of God which God had Himself
given to him.
And one evening he passed out of the eleventh city, which was a
city of Armenia, and his disciples and a great crowd of people
followed after him; and he went up on to a mountain and sat down on
a rock that was on the mountain, and his disciples stood round him,
and the multitude knelt in the valley.
And he bowed his head on his hands and wept, and said to his Soul,
'Why is it that I am full of sorrow and fear, and that each of my
disciples is an enemy that walks in the noonday?' And his Soul
answered him and said, 'God filled thee with the perfect knowledge
of Himself, and thou hast given this knowledge away to others. The
pearl of great price thou hast divided, and the vesture without
seam thou hast parted asunder. He who giveth away wisdom robbeth
himself. He is as one who giveth his treasure to a robber. Is not
God wiser than thou art? Who art thou to give away the secret that
God hath told thee? I was rich once, and thou hast made me poor.
Once I saw God, and now thou hast hidden Him from me.'
And he wept again, for he knew that his Soul spake truth to him,
and that he had given to others the perfect knowledge of God, and
that he was as one clinging to the skirts of God, and that his
faith was leaving him by reason of the number of those who believed
in him.
And he said to himself, 'I will talk no more about God. He who
giveth away wisdom robbeth himself.'
And after the space of some hours his disciples came near him and
bowed themselves to the ground and said, 'Master, talk to us about
God, for thou hast the perfect knowledge of God, and no man save
thee hath this knowledge.'
And he answered them and said, 'I will talk to you about all other
things that are in heaven and on earth, but about God I will not
talk to you. Neither now, nor at any time, will I talk to you
about God.'
And they were wroth with him and said to him, 'Thou hast led us
into the desert that we might hearken to thee. Wilt thou send us
away hungry, and the great multitude that thou hast made to follow
thee?'
And he answered them and said, 'I will not talk to you about God.'
And the multitude murmured against him and said to him, 'Thou hast
led us into the desert, and hast given us no food to eat. Talk to
us about God and it will suffice us.'
But he answered them not a word. For he knew that if he spake to
them about God he would give away his treasure.
And his disciples went away sadly, and the multitude of people
returned to their own homes. And many died on the way.
And when he was alone he rose up and set his face to the moon, and
journeyed for seven moons, speaking to no man nor making any
answer. And when the seventh moon had waned he reached that desert
which is the desert of the Great River. And having found a cavern
in which a Centaur had once dwelt, he took it for his place of
dwelling, and made himself a mat of reeds on which to lie, and
became a hermit. And every hour the Hermit praised God that He had
suffered him to keep some knowledge of Him and of His wonderful
greatness.
Now, one evening, as the Hermit was seated before the cavern in
which he had made his place of dwelling, he beheld a young man of
evil and beautiful face who passed by in mean apparel and with
empty hands. Every evening with empty hands the young man passed
by, and every morning he returned with his hands full of purple and
pearls. For he was a Robber and robbed the caravans of the
merchants.
And the Hermit looked at him and pitied him. But he spake not a
word. For he knew that he who speaks a word loses his faith.
And one morning, as the young man returned with his hands full of
purple and pearls, he stopped and frowned and stamped his foot upon
the sand, and said to the Hermit: 'Why do you look at me ever in
this manner as I pass by? What is it that I see in your eyes? For
no man has looked at me before in this manner. And the thing is a
thorn and a trouble to me.'
And the Hermit answered him and said, 'What you see in my eyes is
pity. Pity is what looks out at you from my eyes.'
And the young man laughed with scorn, and cried to the Hermit in a
bitter voice, and said to him, 'I have purple and pearls in my
hands, and you have but a mat of reeds on which to lie. What pity
should you have for me? And for what reason have you this pity?'
'I have pity for you,' said the Hermit, 'because you have no
knowledge of God.'
'Is this knowledge of God a precious thing?' asked the young man,
and he came close to the mouth of the cavern.
'It is more precious than all the purple and the pearls of the
world,' answered the Hermit.
'And have you got it?' said the young Robber, and he came closer
still.
'Once, indeed,' answered the Hermit, 'I possessed the perfect
knowledge of God. But in my foolishness I parted with it, and
divided it amongst others. Yet even now is such knowledge as
remains to me more precious than purple or pearls.'
And when the young Robber heard this he threw away the purple and
the pearls that he was bearing in his hands, and drawing a sharp
sword of curved steel he said to the Hermit, 'Give me, forthwith
this knowledge of God that you possess, or I will surely slay you.
Wherefore should I not slay him who has a treasure greater than my
treasure?'
And the Hermit spread out his arms and said, 'Were it not better
for me to go unto the uttermost courts of God and praise Him, than
to live in the world and have no knowledge of Him? Slay me if that
be your desire. But I will not give away my knowledge of God.'
And the young Robber knelt down and besought him, but the Hermit
would not talk to him about God, nor give him his Treasure, and the
young Robber rose up and said to the Hermit, 'Be it as you will.
As for myself, I will go to the City of the Seven Sins, that is but
three days' journey from this place, and for my purple they will
give me pleasure, and for my pearls they will sell me joy.' And he
took up the purple and the pearls and went swiftly away.
And the Hermit cried out and followed him and besought him. For
the space of three days he followed the young Robber on the road
and entreated him to return, nor to enter into the City of the
Seven Sins.
And ever and anon the young Robber looked back at the Hermit and
called to him, and said, 'Will you give me this knowledge of God
which is more precious than purple and pearls? If you will give me
that, I will not enter the city.'
And ever did the Hermit answer, 'All things that I have I will give
thee, save that one thing only. For that thing it is not lawful
for me to give away.'
And in the twilight of the third day they came nigh to the great
scarlet gates of the City of the Seven Sins. And from the city
there came the sound of much laughter.
And the young Robber laughed in answer, and sought to knock at the
gate. And as he did so the Hermit ran forward and caught him by
the skirts of his raiment, and said to him: 'Stretch forth your
hands, and set your arms around my neck, and put your ear close to
my lips, and I will give you what remains to me of the knowledge of
God.' And the young Robber stopped.
And when the Hermit had given away his knowledge of God, he fell
upon the ground and wept, and a great darkness hid from him the
city and the young Robber, so that he saw them no more.
And as he lay there weeping he was ware of One who was standing
beside him; and He who was standing beside him had feet of brass
and hair like fine wool. And He raised the Hermit up, and said to
him: 'Before this time thou hadst the perfect knowledge of God.
Now thou shalt have the perfect love of God. Wherefore art thou
weeping?' And he kissed him.
I was twenty-six the first time I held
a human heart in my hand.
It was sixty-four and heavier than I expected,
its chambers slack;
and I was stupidly surprised
at how cold it was.
It was the middle of the third week
before I could look at her face,
before I could spend more than an hour
learning the secrets of cirrhosis,
the dark truth of diabetes, the black lungs
of the Marlboro woman, the exquisite
painful shape of kidney stones,
without eating an entire box of Altoids
to smother the smell of formaldehyde.
After seeing her face, I could not help
but wonder if she had a favorite color;
if she hated beets,
or loved country music before her hearing
faded, or learned to read
before cataracts placed her in perpetual twilight.
I wondered if her mother had once been happy
when she'd come home from school
or if she'd ever had a valentine from a secret admirer.
In the weeks that followed, I would
drive the highways, scanning billboards.
I would see her face, her eyes
squinting away the cigarette smoke,
or she would turn up at the bus stop
pushing a grocery cart of empty
beer cans and soda bottles. I wondered
if that was how she'd paid for all those smokes
or if the scars of repeated infections in her womb
spoke to a more universal currency.
Did she die, I wondered, in a cardboard box
under the Burnside Bridge, nursing a bottle
of strawberry wine, telling herself
she felt a little warmer now,
or in the Good Faith Shelter,
her few belongings safe under the sheet
held to her faltering heart?
Or in the emergency room, lying
on a wheeled gurney, the pitiless
lights above, the gauzy curtains around?
Did she ever wonder what it all was for?
I wish I could have told her in those days
what I've now come to know: that
it was for this--the baring
of her body on the stainless steel table--
that I might come to know its secrets
and, knowing them, might listen
to the machine-shop hum of aortic stenosis
in an old woman's chest, smile a little to myself
and, in gratitude to her who taught me,
put away my stethoscope, turn to my patient
and say Let's talk about your heart.
A Cross is slanting ‘tween two withered trees -
I saw him first in peace, amid a crowd
Of streets, nor dreamed him ever one of these,
So wistfully he mused, so shyly proud,
So chalk-besmeared he walked his weary pace.
A space went, - and on an early day
Within the trench, I saw a half-known face
Awake with wonder; a child-lived heart at play
With dreamed romance: a Drake-keen eye ashine
For newer worlds……A thunder tore the line!…..
A shell burst!….. He smiled as Sidney smiled-
And fell…..There came the crying of a child,
…..A wave of little hands…..a soft breeze
The cross is slanting ‘tween two withered trees.
I wish I’d known him better.
But our respect for him was such
that you only spoke to him
when you needed to.
In a way, that was to know him truly.
You wouldn’t notice him, passing him
in a crowd; and yet, two paces on,
and you’d feel you had just passed
someone who walked in their own space
and left space itself quite unaffected.
To meet him, in the corridor, say,
early in the morning, was - what? -
awesome, refreshing, vitalising:
there was a sense that overnight,
he’d dived into some deep ocean
of sheer bliss; and emerged
like a morning seashore,
washed with freshness,
full of deep thought,
and his eyes
full of an understanding kindness
which stayed with you all the day.
What was extraordinary – of the many
things about this gloriously ordinary man -
was that although no-one ever saw him
looking at his watch, he was always
in the right place, and at just the right time,
yet never in a hurry – almost as if
he had some satellite navigation system built in.
And he always looked so genuinely pleased to be
just where he was. I don't think his facial muscles
knew how to pretend..
And so this spread to all of us around him –
and of course, he never  put this into words;
yet love surrounded him; and we just loved
to work with him. Though there were some, new to him,
who could barely handle such goodness
when they met it – wanted to challenge it,
find some reason to pick holes
in such perfection, although it was
unboasted. But these, he seemed
to know instinctively, and why they were
just as they were; one day, he and they
would be involved in some unusual and difficult situation –
even on occasion, dangerous -
and they’d be friends with him for life.
It was said by those who had known him well in earlier years
that extraordinary and miraculous things
happened to him – visions, angels, future things revealed,
revelations of some law beyond all laws;
we never talked of this; the story was
that when one older friend had questioned him of this,
he’d said, he always knew it would in time
be what he needed to pass on to others.
And there the matter rested.
I’d say, for me, for life
he redefined the nature of true love.
for S.S.
The teacher must know
As Plato once
Well said it
Years ago,
A teacher is but a midwife
But the disciple
The student
Is still the one who
Gets himself
Impregnated with
Ideas
The teacher simply helps
In giving the birth
Of the ideas that
The student must himself
Conceive
When the ideas are born
The teacher cares for them
Newly born babies
Now having exciting lives
Of their own
The teacher watches them
Very well pleased,
Excited for something new
Greater than himself,
Rising above
Almost all else, then the teacher
Claps his hands & then
Happily dies,
His mission is accomplished.
You taught me how to fly
above the skies...
Yes, you!
YOU!  You without wings!
You taught me how to fly
Beyond dreams
© 2009 Sonya Florentino
This peach
that I’ve just eaten,
been graced by,
been blessed by,
been taught by,
been transformed by…
it’s as if some
Messenger of the Gods
had arrived, stopwatch in hand,
saying, everything holds in perfection
but a little moment -
as William Shakespeare noted:
so I’m going to arrange things so that
as the stopwatch ticks out
ten seconds to that moment,
you’ll reach out your hand to the fruitbowl,
take it, feel its yielding softness under velvet skin,
cut it carefully twice through the poles,
once equatorially… and as it falls apart,
spear one segment; eat…
this peach
was full of what even Rilke
could say no more than, peachness..
it was a living proof of Plato:
its perfection taught me
where essence meets experience,
where actuality meets the ideal of peach;
where a singular perfection speaks of
all perfections; where perfection
leaves from perfection, naught else but perfect…
how could such a perfect thing
have been invented by one
who does not love? Who is not love?
This peach is love itself, and I the worshipper
must needs make of myself a living God
to whom to kneel, to offer praise and gratitude
for all perfection known..
this peach my teacher.
Oh my teacher...
let me praise you,
for you sprouted me out,
from a darkened life.
Oh my teacher...
show me -
your magical spirit..
by which you made-
the darkness to light.
oh my teacher...
let me thank you...
for which you, quenched my thirst-
for knowledge.
My teacher...,
thank you...
for you took out-
words from my throat-
and you showed me to-
make finest garland,
by those words...
My teacher...
you showed me,
the stars....
pointing up the sky..,
saying 'its stars...-
..shining stars...
..glittering..., twinkling...'
My teacher...
it's because of you,
i loved butterflies...,
and green grasshoppers..!
and it's because of you..
that i have,
dreams; unending.
My teacher..
i am always
indebted....for your deeds..
for the lifeline..
which you -
in my forehead!
My teacher....,
ne'er let your lamp-
to be gone into darkness.
My teacher...
this is for you...
dedicated with..,
sincere respect.
What would life be
Without colours?
“I have no clue
What they look like”
Said Pushkar.
I have been
Blind
Since I was three.
His calm face
And confident pace
Showed his total
Acceptance.
He had an acute sense
And sometimes
While reading
To him
He would interrupt me
And say
‘Today you are not wearing a smile”
He could sense
My restlessness
Once in a while
At times
He too lost his composure
Naked with his emotions
Depressed about his future
And looked for solace
In his teacher.
Now he is a grown man
With a family of his own
And takes pride
That he can see
The world through their eyes.
He doesn’t believe
I learnt so much
Watching him evolve:
Hope, endurance,
Perseverance.
If I should meet you
on the dusty road of life
Do not despair
for I am your teacher
If you should stumble
while crossing my muddy path
Do not despair
for you are my teacher
If we should cry alone
and falter in hurricane winds
Do not despair
for they are our teachers
If our souls should meet again
with tattered and worn-out shoes
Do not despair
for we have not learned
i am taught well,
now my hands won't swell,
cause i have learned,
from you my dear teacher,
you entertained me,
and educated me,
all i want is your love and care,
without them i cant bear,
well, some people always thought that you were wrong,
cause they were no students but a gang,
you can tell what is best,
and you loves us to have funny fest,
could that be any better?
without my second parent?
i always loved you,
in return you taught me,
i thank you with all my might,
although i am afraid that you are going to be out of sight,
but your love and kindness,
will always be in my heart with thank fullness,
i just want to say,
Happy teachers' day! ,
for this is your day,
and you can do any thing today,
don't forget me miss,
and be always abliss,
you are the one and only teacher,
that i always loves FOREVER! ! ! !
You want someone to hear you
Run your mouth
No one wants to listen to a pathological liar
You talk loud
Now my aggravations got the best of me
Drown you out
You tell your stories, I try to wrap my brain
I've lost count
I pick the best and write your fiction
What you're about
It makes for a laugh or something to fill a void
Shut your mouth
Thank you for the sun and showers
Thank you for the Springtime flowers
Thank you for the lambs that bleat
Thank you for the fields so neat.
Thank you for the sun in June
Making trees and flowers bloom
Thank you for the Summer rain
To refresh the earth again.
Thank you for the Autumn trees
Man could not paint scenes like these
Thank you for the harvest yield
Crops and grains from every field.
Than you for Winter winds that blow
Thank you for the frost and snow.
Thank you for each season Lord
Without the weather - we'd be bored.
John Knight  -  Enjoyin' the Weather  -  7 March 2011
You
wrote a poem
I read it
while I read it
I was you
I feel good
thanks
Thank you dear Father for all the wonders and gifts you'v bestowed
from the fullness of your bounty, enriching my heart and soul
brilliant yellow blossoms hanging heavily and bending every bough
like your arms reaching down to me from heaven above
the riot of colors that summer dresses every lowly corner
gladdens my  heart  and fills it with deep inexplicable joy of knowing your love
I see your presence mirrored in the deep green waters of the calm lake
and feel your loving touch as the breeze gently caresses me on a hot summery day
drenched am I in your love, as I run barefoot- carefree and gay
filled with the bliss of being alive and feeling the peace you'v gifted me overflowing from my heart
thank you dear Father for giving me life.. and pain enough to love every joy
(13th May 2008)
Dear Father in Heaven, today I'm not going to ask anything of you.
I want to praise you Lord and give thanks for all that you do.
As of late Father I've asked you for many blessings and you have granted many of them Father.  You helped my daughter find her way and open a wonderful art shop, oh Lord I thank you. You kept my children out of harms way Lord and showed my grandson the error of his ways bringing him back on track Lord, I thank you.  You granted my   grandson, my daughter and myself a trip to Nova Scotia this year Lord, I thank you Father.  You made sure my mother isn't suffering with her leg Father.  You saw to it that David Harris came home from the hospital and is recovering nicely, I thank you Father.  You took care of some issues for my friends Shelley and her new husband Michael Lord, I thank you.
Father God, I'm sure I've missed some, but you know what they are and that I want to thank you on their behalf.
Father God, thankyou for all the wonderful things you do and most of all Father, thankyou for your precious son 'Jesus'.
The ancient sage, beset with too many thoughts
for one human lifetime,
chooses carefully the place to sit
beside the lake,
under the even more ancient twisted pine
with the view of distant cliffs
where the stork’s cry echoes;
gathers his thoughts.
Out of mercy,
the breeze gently ruffles the surface
of the lake;
the sage, reminded by the ripples
of the stillness of the lake,
smiles from a mind that’s now the lake
reflecting the blueness of the sky;
reflects, beyond the blue,
the space in which immortals live.
Her coat shone silky smooth that afternoon.
Her tail wagged like a metronome.
She raced the local kids around the oval.
They laughed and called her 'sausage dog'.
That night she stumbled on the stairs.
She whimpered when I tried to pick her up.
By midnight she was shivering with shock.
The vet suspected herniated discs.
Next day - incontinence and paraplegia.
The suited specialist duly kept us waiting.
Offered surgery (without a guarantee) .
Two thousand dollars?  You must be joking!
The breeder said 'Give old George a ring.
He'll soon have her on her feet again.
He treats them in an open fronted shed.
Calls himself a canine chiropractor.'
George Schofield - nearly eighty five years old -
A nugget of a man with heart of gold,
Placed his stumpy hands upon her spine.
In seven days, my little dog was fine.
This happened four years ago.  As far as I am aware, Old George is still manipulating dogs from all over Victoria.  He works every day from 10.00am till 4.00pm.  He has Tuesday's off.  He must be pushing 90 by now.  I'll never forget him.
A
Million
Thanks
I
Am
Saying
To
Those
That
Stood
By
My
Side
For
A
Long
Time
Thank you Lord for the glorious light,
That comes every morning, from the sun so bright.
Thank you Lord, for the evening breeze,
that from the heat brings blessed relief.
Thank you Lord for the wind that blows,
Thank you Lord for the grass that grows,
Thank you Lord for the evening sky,
Thank you Lord for the stars so high.
Thank you Lord, for the golden moon,
Thank you Lord for the flowers that bloom,
Thank you Lord for the oceans deep,
Thank you Lord for the tears we weep.
For the sunshine and the rain,
For the joy and for the pain,
Thank you Lord for what my eyes have seen,
Thank you Lord, for everything.
5/23/10 29 palms ca.
When stillness
walked into the room
there was no need
to greet you
and when you left
and stillness stayed
there was no need
to say goodbye.
have roamed in this site
have caressed  got comforted
by words of many
To He who is all powerful, thanks for the many
blessings you have bestowed on me.
To those I love, thanks for all you do.
To my friends, thanks, for teaching me the
meaning of friendship.
To those I have angered, thanks for your patience
and your understanding.
To those I have disappointed, thanks for your
forgiveness. I'll try to do better.
Thanks, to the strangers along life's path, for
their kindness.
Thanks, to those who do for others and remain
without acknowledgement.
Thanks, for the charity of others, extended to
those who are less fortunate.
Thanks, to those of differences, who arrive
at the point of compromise.
Thanks, to all in their journey of life, who
attempt to make this, a better world.
© Joe Fazio
He was not in to surface love,
Deemed it casual and for show;
But felt that deep within oneself
Was the place for love to grow.
Though he was never'born again',
In his faith he seemed secure.
His dealings with the trials of life,
Found him steady and sincere.
Work became his driving ethic;
Heavy, heavy was the load.
The path he walked along life's span,
Was a rough and and narrow road.
He faced life's problems straight-away
And he shunned hypocrisy;
He travelled the restrictive roads,
Of truth and fidelity.
So long ago he quit this life,
Leaving me alone and sad.
I try to follow on his course;
This is my thanks to you, Dad.
I am sorry!
Sorry, is sometimes 'Countless'.
like the waves swipe and step on my feet
like the rain washes and dip down my body and
like the stars smile and fall on my head
''Thank you''
Thanks, is sometimes 'Worthless'.
as an impeached King.
as a gangrenous lips of a Lover.
as a sapphire in the mouth of a snake.
as an elixir in the hands of Lucifer.
as salt in honey and
as sugar in fish curry.
But I'll not say,
'''countless Thanks and a worthless sorry''
It is thirteen years today
since you sent me on the
home depot mission
gone only twenty minutes
well thanks for not shooting
me when you turned that
shotgun on your self it was hard
getting the Catholic priest
to give you mass
but you are situated proper now
not burning hot inside the box as you thought.
Thanks for your car, condo, stocks, bonds, most of
all thanks for paying off those credit cards before.
I grew up to be just like you....well almost.
I thought that my Thanksgiving would be ruined because my cat ran away.
But he returned last night and I give thanks for that today.
I'm thankful for God, my health, my parents and my cat.
My kitty is heavier than a chunk of lead because he's fat.
Today I can finally thank you
Thanks so much for tossing my heart in a shredder
Thanks for making me feel blown off and unimportant that one last time
If you hadn't done what it is that you did
And I hadn't said those shitty things I said
Then I would probably still be holding on
With my bare soul to a farce of a fantasy
Or maybe it was a fantasy of a farce
Either way, thanks again
(07/01/07)
Endless thanks God
For making my pen mighty
And there’s nothing to be afraid of
Since you are with me.
Endless thanks God
For the peace of my mind
And for the wisdom that I seek.
Endless thanks God
For the friendship between us
And for the patience I have.
Endless thanks God
For all the favors
You bestow upon me.
We played at the park that afternoon
She chased a football, wagging her tail
And barking at the local kids who
Laughed and called her 'sausage dog'
That evening she stumbled on the stairs
And whimpered when I picked her up
By midnight she was shivering with shock
The vet diagnosed herniated disc
Next day she was paralyzed and incontinent
The specialist was aloof and kept us waiting
Suggested surgery and wouldn't guarantee it
His fee was two thousand dollars.  We said no
The breeder said 'Give old George a ring'
George Schofield, chiropractor for dogs
Eighty-four years old.  Works from home
In an open fronted shed.  Charges ten dollars.
George Schofield, a nugget of a man
With stumpy fingers and heart of gold
Adjusted her spine and performed a miracle
In seven days, my dog was walking
Just a few dwindling pools remain
in what was once the river bed.
Three years and more without rain.
Most of my livestock long since dead.
Yet still I have to struggle on
I have no choice no place to go
All of my men have packed and gone,
To where the deeper rivers flow.
Each evening I pray for rain
I won’t surrender to despair.
I’m not too old to start again.
No man can win who does not dare.
The storm clouds gather overhead.
Perhaps in answer to my prayer.
This time release much needed rain.
There’s water, water everywhere.
The river fills and overflows.
The arid earth drinks greedily.
The drought is over: Heaven knows
I’ve had my share of misery.
I face the future confident
That I can do what must be done
Determination and intent
are all I have I will go on.
I will build up my stock and then
I will employ some jackaroos.
To help me run the place again
much needed help that I can use.
But for the present work alone.
My nearest neighbour’s miles away
There is so much that must be done.
Enough to fill each working day.
When evening comes I will give thanks.
Unto my maker gratefully.
The river flows between its banks.
And all is as it ought to be.
09/07/2009
http: // blog.myspace.com.poeticpiers
when you are sad and weary,
and nothing give you peace,
just close your eyes,
and think of Him,
your worries will surely cease.
when you are tense and worried,
and think constantly bout the future
He who put you in this world,
will surely nourish and nurture.
when all seems to be going wrong
and youve lost the will to fight,
just lay yourself at his feet
and watch things become slowly right.
He's there for you in hard times,
but forget him not in good,
its He who gave you, all that you have
invisibly by your side He stood.
we look for Him everywhere,
when he's within us all the while,
you only have to ask an inch,
and He willingly gives a mile.
His love for you is boundless,
hes a friend for one and all,
when youve looked for happiness everywhere else
its time to heed His call.
wordly pleasures are momentary,
lasting joy is through His door,
just search within yourself, dear friend
He's right within your core.
Have faith, have hope
and do your best,
a good life will be your reward,
whatever you do, just remember
don't fail to say thanks to your God.
I asked Allah for strenght, that I might achieve I was so week, that i might learn humbly to obey.. I asked for health, that I might I might do better things...
I asked for riches, that I might be happy I was given poverty, that I might be wise... I ask for power, that I might have the praise of men
I was given weakness, that I might feel the need me Allah..
I asked for all things, that I might enjoy life I was given life, that I might enjoy all things..
I got nothing that I asked for but everything I had hope for.
Almost despite myself, my unspoken prayers were answered.
I am among all who most richly blessed!
When times are lean with nought to share
When love is hard to find
Where cold nights reign with cupboards bare
Then God is on the mind
But who gives praise when life is grand
When God has seen us through
Who’ve learned in truth to understand
That God remembers too
How oft we fail to thank the Lord
For all His kindness done
Through love He’ll turn His vengeful sword
In Christ His faithful Son
Give thanks to God for large and small
Give thanks for life on earth
From deep within or not at all
Give praise for all you’re worth
Worthy is God of all our praise
For all His wondrous deeds
Who serve The Truth in all their ways
May find they have no needs
Yet still the nations live in stress
Where harvest brings defeat
They need to turn so God can bless
With food for all to eat
Yet those who have can ill afford
With belly’s full to sit
We need to pray through Christ our Lord
We need to do our bit
For things can change as times before
When God held back the rain
For who can tell if sin once more
Won’t change our times again
I give Thanks
A moment too soon
Words Spoken too early
Undiscussed plans lead to
unprepared decisions
I live to wish, hope and dream
I plan to go further with my life
live Large and be successful
Yet GOD gives what He knows is appropriate for me
A Blessing He granted
No man may Curse
A Gift He giveth
No man may taketh away
A plan He made
No man may override.
Giving thanks to him, because he’s God
And God is in everything, don’t you see?
God is in you and me and always will be,
It doesn’t matter when you sin or stray!
God is always in your heart and your life
And he’s the only one who knows it all.
Give thanks to him, because he’s God,
And he loves us even we all sin and fall
God is constantly watching you and me,
Everyday when you're resting or in the go,
And God answers prayers, not in your time,
But in his own time, and does what he knows
And God created all and knows everything
Give thanks, that he’s our Savior and King!
For
the stillness of the morn
our joy when tiny lambs are born
gardens full of glorious fowers
I humbly thank the heavenly powers.
For
thoughts of golden days gone by
the lark ascending in the sky
babbling brooks and gentle streams
I humbly thank this land of dreams.
For
the magic hour you said 'I do'
glamorous nights all spent with you
the echo of our baby's cry
I humbly thank The Lord on High.
thanks for being strength in my weakness
thanks for being hope in my despair
and mores, thanks for being there
when light walks away from the forest
along the long lonely snaking road
are cascading pike-peak  thorns
they hurt the foot at where none can care
all you can hear are crickets singing their dirges
when we call for ululation to heal the hurts
when the sun rises as it usually does,
and the cock crows at the hour it can;
when the apostolic minister rings the church bells
and the congregation begins to sing the 'martins',
hear it again, it's me saying once again, many thanks.
Our world of so many modern conveniences
We were born to accept, and have taken for granted
Allow us to live our lives with very little inconveniences
In our minds, a feeling of aid has been implanted
What would we do without television or telephone?
Not to mention a washer and dryer, along with
Running water
We were all born during such an historical milestone
With personal computers, our home - became our world
Headquarters
Let us give recognition, to the men and women - who
Persevered
The pioneers of yesterday, who gave us - what we have today
Through their hard work and tolerance, let their deeds be revered
Let us offer a moment of tribute, be gratefully given - in a highly
Valued way
Guided with persistence - by way of God’s resourceful hand
For he worked along beside them, as he whispered - his plan
Prayers - from those seeking to find a better way
Were being answered, -unfolding, before us were the wonder’s
Of a entirely newfound day
thanks for giving pain for a while,
then by god's grace, you restored my smile.
thanks for being so patient & mild,
when i behaved just like a child.
Ruthlessly the judgement was pronounced
A shameful death sentence
To be carried out at the place of a skull
For all to see and mock him
Despite his innocence, clearly proved beyond all doubt
Despite his goodness to all and sundry
Despite his love to everyone
This judgement was upheld by all
But with joy in his heart he embraced his death
So that the will of he, who sent him, may be fulfilled
So that all, including his execusioners, will be reconcilled to the creator
So that no soul will be lost
This is a sacrifice that is beyond all sacrifice
A sacrifice of life which was exceptional
Lord Jesus Christ, Thanks For Your Sacrifice
Mental
Asylun
Not for me
Thanks
But no thanks
Because
I am not crazy
I suffer from depression
And that doesn't mean that I am crazy
I am not
Believe me
ACCOMPANYING MANUSCRIPTS PRESENTED TO A FRIEND.
'T is said that in the Holy Land
The angels of the place have blessed
The pilgrim's bed of desert sand,
Like Jacob's stone of rest.
That down the hush of Syrian skies
Some sweet-voiced saint at twilight sings
The song whose holy symphonies
Are beat by unseen wings;
Till starting from his sandy bed,
The wayworn wanderer looks to see
The halo of an angel's head
Shine through the tamarisk-tree.
So through the shadows of my way
Thy smile hath fallen soft and clear,
So at the weary close of day
Hath seemed thy voice of cheer.
That pilgrim pressing to his goal
May pause not for the vision's sake,
Yet all fair things within his soul
The thought of it shall wake:
The graceful palm-tree by the well,
Seen on the far horizon's rim;
The dark eyes of the fleet gazelle,
Bent timidly on him;
Each pictured saint, whose golden hair
Streams sunlike through the convent's gloom;
Pale shrines of martyrs young and fair,
And loving Mary's tomb;
And thus each tint or shade which falls,
From sunset cloud or waving tree,
Along my pilgrim path, recalls
The pleasant thought of thee.
Of one in sun and shade the same,
In weal and woe my steady friend,
Whatever by that holy name
The angels comprehend.
Not blind to faults and follies, thou
Hast never failed the good to see,
Nor judged by one unseemly bough
The upward-struggling tree.
These light leaves at thy feet I lay,--
Poor common thoughts on common things,
Which time is shaking, day by day,
Like feathers from his wings;
Chance shootings from a frail life-tree,
To nurturing care but little known,
Their good was partly learned of thee,
Their folly is my own.
That tree still clasps the kindly mould,
Its leaves still drink the twilight dew,
And weaving its pale green with gold,
Still shines the sunlight through.
There still the morning zephyrs play,
And there at times the spring bird sings,
And mossy trunk and fading spray
Are flowered with glossy wings.
Yet, even in genial sun and rain,
Root, branch, and leaflet fail and fade;
The wanderer on its lonely plain
Erelong shall miss its shade.
O friend beloved, whose curious skill
Keeps bright the last year's leaves and flowers,
With warm, glad, summer thoughts to fill
The cold, dark, winter hours
Pressed on thy heart, the leaves I bring
May well defy the wintry cold,
Until, in Heaven's eternal spring,
Life's fairer ones unfold.
It is a good feeling
when you help someone in distress,
impart on them the knowledge
that you have gained.
You feel a great satisfaction
and no thanks is needed.
You are doing something
we should all do at times,
holding out our hand and helping another.
Each of us has been given a gift
and it is how we use that gift
which is the important thing.
If we use that gift
to import happiness into someone’s life
making them feel better within themselves.
How wonderful we feel
whenever they smile with satisfaction
knowing they have done something
to make a dream come true.
We need no thanks for this,
as it is what everyone should do.
Holding out a helping hand
no matter how far it has to stretch
and we can then rest on these words.
Do onto others, as you would
have them do onto you.
7 January 2008
There is no way I’d like to be
somebody else: I quite like me.
I’ll never be a household name
but I am happy just the same.
Content to be ordinary
by no means a celebrity.
I have no wish to seek great fame
to me that is a foolish game.
I know my limits and accept.
I have no reason to expect,
that Lady Luck will smile on me
There is no reason I can see.
Why she should, although she could
or so I’ve always understood
The lady’s known for her caprice.
Although she does not always please
the person who she singles out.
Although entertains no doubt
I only hope she won’t choose me
I’m happy to be ordinary.
You make me want to give up
you make me want to stop trying
You say you dont care
so why are you still here?
No thanks to you im better now
No thanks to you im stronger
No thaanks to you i laugh harder
You thought you could control me
well you had to think twice
You thought i would break without you
But really im fine
No thanks to you.......
I remember a time filled
with bliss
A time that I will
always miss
We were together, just you
and me
That time has
quickly passed
I thought our friendship would
always last
Now I'm trapped and falling to
my doom
I can see my godforsaken end,
I can see it loom
I need you
here
I need you to brush away
my every tear
And now I realize, I'm falling
for you
Even I can't believe that
it's true
So save me now before
I die
Save me, before I heave
my last sigh
For the gladness here where the sun is shining at evening on the weeds at the river,
Our prayer of thanks.
For the laughter of children who tumble barefooted and bareheaded in the summer grass,
Our prayer of thanks.
For the sunset and the stars, the women and the white arms that hold us,
Our prayer of thanks.
God,
If you are deaf and blind, if this is all lost to you,
God, if the dead in their coffins amid the silver handles on the edge of town, or the reckless dead of war days thrown unknown in pits, if these dead are forever deaf and blind and lost,
Our prayer of thanks.
God,
The game is all your way, the secrets and the signals and the system; and so for the break of the game and the first play and the last.
Our prayer of thanks.
Thanks for being there
Always being so aware
Thanks for being near when I needed you here
Thanks for staying so close when I needed you the most
Thanks for the love your rain on me like a dove
Always seeming as if you are from right above
Thanks for the times you seem to help me enjoy love
Thanks for being here when I need someone near
Thanks for being there
Also for being so fair
Thanks for saying hi
When they all shouted good-bye
Thanks for giving me the time of day
When all your friends didn’t bother to say hey
Sincere thanks to the Africans who,
Made us proud at the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games;
For there their talents were exposed to the world.
Thanks to Kenya who got the total of 14 medals:
Made up of 5 Gold medals,5 Silver medals and 4 Bronze medals.
Thanks to Ethiopia who got the total of 7 medals:
Made up of 4 Gold medals, a Silver medal and 2 Bronze medals.
Thanks to Zimbabwe who got the total of 4 medals:
Made up of a Gold medal and 3 Silver medals.
Thanks to Cameroon who got a single Gold medal,
Thanks to Tunisia who got a single Gold medal,
Thanks to Nigeria who got the total of 4 medals:
Made up of a Silver medal and 3 Bronze medals.
Thanks to Algeria who got 2 medals:
Made up of a Silver medal and a Bronze medal.
Thanks to Morocco who got 2 medals:
Made up of a Siver medal and a Bronze medal.
THanks to South Africa who got a single Silver medal,
Thanks to Sudan who got a single Silver medal,
Thanks to Egypt who got a single Bronze medal,
Thanks to Mauritius who got a single Bronze medal,
And tanks to Togo who also got a single Bronze medal.
You've really made Africa proud and we do thank you all!
Hey Dad look at me now,
Look at how i've grown.
Opps I forgot your not around,
I guess thats why i'm always feeling down.
So thanks alot dad.
I can't believe you left mom and i,
I wonder when you left if momm ever cried.
So thanks alot dad.
Momma said you were always alot of fun,
Dad, would you have stayed if momma had a son?
So basicly I hate you dad
The only thing you left me with was a stupid yellow rabbit.
So thanks alot dad,
I hope i can see you again,
So I can slap you in the face,
So you'll know that twelve years with out you,
Felt like a turtle race.
So thanks alot dad.
This is my 2000th poem,
though not all are posted here.
A lot of my early work
just failed to pass the test of time
and have been left locked away.
I always told myself that when I reached 2000
I would retire from poetry.
At least for a while.
I have other writing projects
that need my urgent attention
so I am saying a special thanks
to all those whom over the last two years
have read my poems
and left a comments here and there.
I also want to say thank you
to those who read my collaborations
with Jo Jo Bean and Meggie Gultiano
as Jo Jo Bean, Dodgy Dave and Meggie Gultiano,
and my alias Howard ‘Howie’ Johnson.
I say thank you to every one of you.
To say that I am leaving is not quit right;
I will still be reading and commenting
from time to time.
It is just that I will not be posting
for the foreseeable future.
Thank you once again for all the support
you have given me
and God Bless every one of you.
8 August 2009
Afzal Shauq Has A Vision Of All The World.. By: -Tanvi Damle from India
_____________________________________________ ____
While browsing through poemhunter.com, I stumbled upon Mr. Afzal Shauq's profile. I read his first poem and was so amazed by his writing that i sat the whole say, reading through his amazing work.
Mr. Afzal Shauq..words fail me to describe this great man. All the poets wreck their minds over how to write but Mr Shauq, he's different because he thinks from his heart. Mr. Shauq has achieved something that millions of people like me can only dream of. He has a vision of all the world coming together as one whole country. Mr. Shauq wants the world to live as one. Mr. Shauq preaches in humanity and brotherhood.
According to Mr. Shauq the best weapon to fight a war is 'A Friendly Smile.' Isn't that a brilliant idea? We all dream of world peace and wish for wars to end. But that's about it, we don't do anything beyond that. The difference between Mr. Shauq and us is that he not only dreams of world peace but work's towards making the dream come true. And the best part is Mr. Shauq is not only making his dream come true but ours as well. He has the power to do it through his writing. He has something alot more than talent and what's amazing is that he uses his talent to promote world peace, something that's most important in today's world.
From his unique collection of poem's, inspite of me loving his each poem; there were a few that captured my heart the most. The poem‘ Global Peace Theory’ is one of them…
'Global Peace Theory' / Afzal Shauq
If and when the invincible book of norms is ignored?
If and when custom of humanity is burnt to dust?
Due to the wicked shadows of greed, lust and other evil doings,
We don’t have the right to be named as human beings.
Rather, we are brutal animals like vultures and crocodiles.
If we truly wish from the heart to be called humans of higher race,
Then we must not shrink when we are called “the children of Adam”.
For once we begin to consider ourselves as sons of Adam
Of this verdant mound, of this dry land, of this circling life –
Then we might also try to answer the ancient golden query of………
“Aren’t we cousins to each other? ” or “Aren’t we all brothers and sisters? ”
Hence, let’s all take initiatives to bridge up the gaps between hearts.
To connect all broken knots regardless of color, creed or race,
Via road to positivity, presenting cheerful aura of glowing smiles.
Respect to one another is a blooming string that ties warm cozy ends.
Letting social life be dance and sing melodiously with the collective actions.
Pleasing, filling, satisfying; the glaring shadows of humanity.
In which it has long been betrayed, jumped out of shell,
By the selfish wand and magnetic resonance of greed!
____
In the poem ‘Global Peace Theory’ Mr Shauq has sent out a rather meaningful message. In this poem Mr. Shauq is stressing on the way we human's behave. T he humanity is fading away every second. Human beings are given the power of understanding. But sadly they misuse it by plotting against each other. If so then do we have the right to call ourselves human beings of higher race? Mr. Shauq further quotes that let us all cross the boundaries of one's color, race, religion and country and let us all become a single united nation, filling our hears with nothing but peace
.
'A New Dawn' is yet another example of his amazing talent. Through this poem Mr. Shauq gives hope to millions of people around the world promising them a new dawn, making people's belief stronger
.
The way Mr. Afzal Shauq writes is beautiful, his writing is short, precise and to the point. Mr Shauq's poems always succeed in giving a powerful message to the world. Mr. Shauq's poems take us to a whole new world of peace and give us a ray of hope promising a peaceful future.
Tanvi Damle
INDIA
What i told you
i told in
confidence
never to be told
again
expecially not to the person it was
about
You agreed with me
then you go and tell her
what i said
make her mad at me
You got mad
at me
the last time
i decided i
could not
trust
you
we had our first big fight
I dont know if i can handle
the fact that
you betrayed
me
once more
You hated her too
Now?
I am the bad guy,
destined to be
that
forever
i wish i could trust you,
but i doubt i can
gee..
Thanks
'best friend'
Thanks a Lot, Mom
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for loving me to no end.
Thanks for being my loving mother.
Thanks for being my thoughtful friend.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for feeding me and giving me a home.
Thanks for clothing me and holding me tight.
Thanks for caring when I felt alone.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for always making me smile.
Thanks for giving me the extra push.
Thanks for going that extra mile.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for living with no regrets.
Thanks for being the life of the party.
Thanks for going all in on bets.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for being my inspiration.
Thanks for helping me with my homework.
Thanks for giving me motivation.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for treating me with respect.
Thanks for knowing I'm growing up.
Thanks for knowing what to expect.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for kicking me while I was down.
Thanks for telling me I'm a liar.
Thanks for knowing what comes around.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for giving me my many scars.
Thanks for making me feel at home.
Thanks for breaking my aching heart.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for taking away my friends.
Thanks for taking away my family.
Thanks for not having to pretend.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for kicking me out of my home.
Thanks for calling me cheap and attention-seeking.
Thanks for putting me out on my own.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for ripping away my Brett.
Thanks for saying you don't remember.
Thanks for saying I should forget.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for believing your husband over your kid.
Thanks for rewarding him for a crime.
Thanks for punishing me for what he did.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for meeting me in court.
Thanks for hiring such a mean lawyer.
Thanks for paying for his every retort.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for going on the witness stand.
Thanks for putting all that on file.
Thanks for not holding my shaking hand.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for watching me cry over you.
Thanks for everything you did to me.
Thanks for everything you didn't do.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for letting me take the fall.
Thanks for telling me to lie for you.
Thanks for letting me lose it all.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for saying no one will believe me.
Thanks for telling me you'll always be there.
Thanks for lying, and screaming, and leaving.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for still wearing your pretty smile.
Thanks for not letting anyone know.
Thanks for going that extra mile.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for letting Brett go without her sis.
Thanks for not showing her my picture.
Thanks for all the memories you know I'll miss.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for letting me have a choice.
Thanks for giving me an ultimatum.
Thanks for never hearing my voice.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for all the inspiration.
Thanks for all the things you've caused.
Thanks for all this motivation.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks for giving me something to do.
Thanks to all these heart-wrenching memories.
But most of all, thanks to you.
Now when I'm cutting my wrists in the bathroom,
Or getting pregnant at my prom,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
So thanks a lot, Mom.
When I'm running around being promiscuous,
Like you always thought I would become,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
So thanks a lot, Mom.
When I'm drinking myself to death,
Or when I'm lighting up my bong,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
So thanks a lot, Mom.
When I'm broke and on the street
Or when I'm writing a suicide note like a song,
I'll always remember who I should thank.
Yeah, thanks a lot, Mom.
Thanks dad
For helping me through my darkest times
Thanks dad
For picking me up when I mess up
Thanks dad
For believing in me
Thanks dad
For giving me hope to pull through and keep on going
Thanks dad
For hugging me when I hurt
Thanks dad
For encouraging me to do my very best
And thanks dad once again
For loving me for who I am
Thanks for being here, even though You're on the phone.
Thanks for being here, so I don't feel all left out alone.
Thanks for being here, to talk away my fears.
Thanks for being here, to wipe away me tears.
Thanks for being here, You're so dear to me.
Thanks for being here, that's all anyone wishes someone to be
THANKS FOR BEING THERE
Thanks for being, you,
Thanks for giving me the joys and smiles from day one,
Thanks for helping me enjoy the atmosphere here.
Thanks for correcting me when I was wrong,
Thanks for helping me follow the guidelines  to survive,
Thanks for  helping me try and cope with people around,
Thanks  for giving me the courage to stand up on my own.
Thanks for all the advices,
Thanks for lending me your ears when I was upset,
Thanks for teaching me ways to hold on to the end,
Thanks for the love and care you showed.
Thanks for the wishes you have for me,
Thanks for the prayers you pray for me daily,
Thanks for the candles that you lit for me,
Thanks for the appreciation,
Thanks for not keeping a fence between,
Thanks for the confidence you have in me,
I will miss you and all the funny things you ever did,
The little naughty things youever said,
I wish you the very best  for you future endevour,
Thanks once again for everything.
With lots of love and prayers
Pyari
Dated on  23rd June2007
Thanks for calling
You're a gem
That is why
I said 'je'taime'
Voice of reason
Voice of calm
Voice that acts like
Chaos balm
Landing strip for
All my 'stuff'
Still wondering when
You'll say 'enough! '
Never seem to
Lose your cool
Even when I'm
Such a fool
Let me throw
Myself at you
Take Liberties
Without your cue
And when my mind
Flies with the wind
You have your glove out
Trusted friend
I am free
from all the things I have done to me
I am free to fly
to spread my wings and soar the skies
I feel my heart has come to life
I feel as if I must be high
for I have never felt this way
what is this thing that liberates?
Success......
is the answer.
I thanks Allah for all he has done to me,
thanks  for giving me my moon....
Thanks for letting us know
That we are not going to see you tonight
You are going to miss out the fun
But if you have other plans for today
We understand
It is not our job to tell you
How to run your life either
So we leave it up to you to do it
All we know that you have to feel happy with the things you want to do
Any time during the week
Thanks for not giving up on me like everyone else...
Thanks for picking me up when everybody was looking down on me...
Thanks for wiping the tears from my eyes when i cried...
Thanks for being the farther i never had in my life...
Thanks for putting my shatter heart back together and keeping it...
Thanks for always being there for me...
Thanks for showing me love when i did wrong...
Thanks for showing me that good things can happen even for a person as myself...
Thanks for showing me right from wrong...
Thanks for my future you restored when you decided to fix my life...
Thanks for all the love you put in me... Words can not explain what you mean to me...i love you pops
Thanks for playing with my feelings,
How i wish i could stop my heart from beating,
Thanks for playing with my heart,
At least to you this was a fun part,
you have left me broken, with my eyes filled with tears and fears,
At least you are whole, with smile on your face and not a sight of fear,
To you i was just a game, that you tried to win and succeeded,
Now that you are bored you've left me deserted,
Thanks for playing with my head,
Your sick little mind games,
You kept me guessing, till the very end,
Thanks for playing with my emotions,
According to you this was my weakness,
Thanks for your fake love,
Thanks for pretending that your cared,
Thanks for strengthening my belief, that LOVE is nothing but a pain causing pill,
Thanks for showing me that friendship is something that does not really exist,
Thanks for breaking my trust, for opening up, for sharing my thoughts, for placing my trust on an unknown soul,
Thanks for opening my eyes, you honestly showed me that Love too like friendship is something that does not actually exist,
Thanks for showing me the right path,
A path where to help is to hurt, to love is to lie, to share is to sin, to smile is a crime,
Thanks for showing me, a man with a heart is not a man at all,
Thanks for proving that I'm a fool, to have trusted you,
I will hate myself, till the very end, for loving you...........................
The flowers sent here by mistake,
signed with a name that no one knew,
are turning bad. What shall we do?
Our neighbor says they're not for her,
and no one has a birthday near.
We should thank someone for the blunder.
Is one of us having an affair?
At first we laugh, and then we wonder.
The iris was the first to die,
enshrouded in its sickly-sweet
and lingering perfume. The roses
fell one petal at a time,
and now the ferns are turning dry.
The room smells like a funeral,
but there they sit, too much at home,
accusing us of some small crime,
like love forgotten, and we can't
throw out a gift we've never owned.
Thanks for telling me, you are not what you are..! ! And thanks for not telling, that,
you have got two faces...! !
Now, please do tell me one thing,
which was the face that I loved,
and which one I talked with...? ?
Because, unfortunately I havent seen you...! !
Thanks for stabbing me on my back when I hugged you...! !
At least my heart wasn't hurt...! !
and now do me one more favour...
please let me know,
which was the face I loved and which one I talked with,
because,
perhaps fortunately,
till now, I havent seen you..! !
And all I want is to see you before I take my last breath..! !
Before that, thank you for every dropp of tears
my eyes carry and every dropp of blood that trickles down my back.. thank you for everything! !
You know how when there’s a disaster where a bunch of
people are killed and the one guy who survives thanks God?
I think that’s a pretty screwed up perspective on the situation.
I know he’s happy to be alive, but if anything, he should be
cursing God for letting everyone else perish.
Now, why did God save this one guy’s sorry ass? Because the
guy went to church and prayed? I’m sure some of those folks
who perished did that too.
I know what you’re going to say – that it’s all part of God’s
mysterious plan. What an ignorant explanation that is!
And it’s not even an explanation.
I suppose Hitler was part of God’s plan too? And what about
Michael Bolton? Was it God’s plan to make that talentless hack
a superstar? Now that I think of it, maybe it was God himself
who went out and bought up all those CDs in order to
artificially run Bolton up the charts. If that’s the case, then it’s
true that God has a very mysterious plan. But at least he has a
sense of humor.
-  * THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES * -
You used to send me little things
that brightened up my day.
You'd send a joke or poem
that you'd found along the way.
Or you'd send a little message
that you'd written just for me.
How I miss that little kindness,
that I no longer see.
But you, I'll ere remember
until my days are done
Because in my mind you'll always be
My friend-you're number one.
Thanks for the memories......
Author: Carolyn Ford Witt
Ms. Caroline
©55117   10-29-05
Thanks for the memory,
For a man; golden history,
Lived a life full of misery,
A true man; soul of ivory,
A riddle; unsolved irony,
A hunter, an artist, a Dad,
Truly had given me all he had,
And me? Were I that bad?
Did I really made him sad?
No, he didn't curse me in his bed,
But had forgiven his wayward lad,
A talent, a poet a musician mad,
And he'll forever remember that,
His last wish; in all that he'd said...
Thanks for the memory; I really appreciate your sympathy...And this is for history...
Today is the day
I wanted so much to say
Thanks for the tears
Thanks for the fears
Thank you for so many lost years
Thanks for the pain
Thanks for the black and blue affection
Thanks for the debt
Thank you for all the times you lost a bet
Thank you for causing so much strife
And last but not least.....
Thank you for taking my life.
Thank You, Lord, for simple things
That money just can’t buy:
Love, health, happiness
And the beauty of the sky.
Family, friends and gentle pets
Are blessings in disguise;
A mother who is wonderful,
A father who is wise.
Thank You for the basics:
Food, clothes, a home.
Also for the things unique
Like waves with white foam.
It’s not always the big things—
The noble and elite—
But at times, the simple things
That make life complete.
Astound feelings
Beloved feels,
At long last
love he knows;
Chance
Comes once,
Not let go
Admits;
Loves,
Admires,
Holds so much,
stays long;
Now Known,
All that known,
'Us'celestial embraces
Heaven surrounds.
In search of crime and criminals
I muster my subliminals.
Write poems, simply, on the run
and wish I had a loaded gun.
Since time is really of the essence
I can't attend those forum lessons.
To those of you who wrote opinions
about my poems, and the minions
who love the daylight out of me
I do accept all flattery!
Yet time is short, thus please excuse
my seeming lazy and obtuse
neglect of those who took the time
it is not meant to be a crime.
I thank you all, please read some more
the stuff I send from distant shore.
the storms wait
by the window
the sea rises upon
your door
the flood passes
through
your dining room
bats hang on the
ceiling
snakes sleep on
your bed
and cockroaches
live in your
cabinets
what must you do?
wake up!
you are asleep
caught
in a nightmare.
Thanks Lord for wipping our tears
Because our tears came down from our eyes
So fast while we had cried today
I scavenged the thoughts,
Strained them from mind
Set them to the corner to take form
And I remembered...
I remembered falling down steps
And off trees:
Sometimes being pushed off,
Sometimes merely slipping,
All the same- falling.
I remembered falling a lot.
I remembered sitting in class
Trying to learn some maths
And feeling a touch
Like of a nursing child
Pulling on my shirt, exploring,
What hasn’t been seen before;
The hole from the nail in the door
When I had passed too close…
Yeah, I froze like a ghost.
Hoping not to be seen.
Shame placed me in the hole
And put me on the stage
And shined light in my eyes
And I was seen… me and my shirt.
I remember it well;
It was blue with dragons.
Aunt Vadlyn – my mother’s sister-
Bought it for me, two Easters past,
I wanted it to last,
So I kept it, though it was torn
And slightly over worn –
It was part of the handful I had.
I hated when mother would bring
What might seem, everything,
For everyone,
But her daughters and sons.
The neighbors got theirs.
The workers got theirs.
From the little we had,
I was always behind the fad.
My shirt kept me afloat,
But, the hole and the poke
Were much like,
A sea, the ocean at whole
Trying to get it;
I wanted to drown,
The dead has no shame.
The dead had no shame.
The next week
I wore my shirt again
In the regular order
And she didn’t poke,
No one saw the hole.
I didn’t remember
It even. All was good.
Now as a man,
With money of my own,
Though not plenty-
Enough to buy shirts-
I still wear those with holes,
But now without shame;
Thank you mama.
Copyright © 2010 Leslie Alexis
The moment you’re born, your parents promise you that they will always be there.
As you grow up, and reach maturity, you’ll realize that they say words but they don’t really care.
They tell you “we’ve been there, and done it, so don’t make the same mistake because we understand.”
But they don’t really know the reason why we tear, cry, and wipe off the tears with our hands.
Parents expect you to be who they want you to be, and soon enough they don’t listen to your voice.
They make all these promises to you, and now suddenly they broke and they are giving you no choice.
Parents talk to you about freedom and speaking out your mind, but when you’re expressing yourself, they block you out.
They say “I don’t want to hear because you’re too young to understand.” when really they are the ones who don’t know what they’re talking about.
I just want you to understand my heart and love me for me.
You can’t make me into someone that I don’t want to be.
You think that you get me, but the truth is that you don’t have a clue.
You say “you don’t know what you’re talking about” but in fact, I truly do.
I just want you to be happy for me, and see how much potential I really have in life.
Sometimes you make me so unhappy and you say you’re going to be there for me, but in fact you stab me behind my back with a knife.
Parents don’t really promise you anything, but I guess we pretend that they do.
So, they can help guide us in life and maybe we can learn to make a mistake or two.
You should be proud of me instead of judging me that some of the choices I made in life were wrong.
But, I don’t regret any of my experiences that I’ve endured because they made me emotionally strong.
thanks for making me comfortable.
on my first day at hospital.
thanks for standing like a friend,
when i felt lone and when my hope was about end.
thanks for giving me courage,
when i felt weak and scared.
thanks for wiping my tears.
when i cried just before surgery,
as i was filled with all fears.
thanks for taking care of my life,
when i felt that i am about to die.
thanks for the help you lent,
when i was helpless like an infant.
thanks for all the cleaning and feeding,
when like a cripple i was lying.
thanks for treating me with a smile.
when i cried and even turned bile.
thanks for supporting me, when i was abate.
thanks for standing by my side, when i slept late.
thanks for all your help,
during the times when i tired to take care of myself.
thanks for making me smile again.
and making me realize the pain was not in vain..
thanks for listening, when i wanted to talk.
thanks for encouraging, when i started to walk.
i have no words.i have no ways.
just want to let you know.
i will be grateful always.
Thanks for all your appreciation
I value it alot
Normally no-one cares
And they all just call me a swat
Thanks for all your appreciation
It's boosted my confidence
Poems are my passion
And stop me putting up a fence
Thanks for all your appreciation
You helped me see sense
Thank you so much
Because most people are against
Thanks for your appreciation
You're the only ones who care
I now beleive in myself
I really do, I swear
Thanks for your appreciation
It really is appreciated
And once again
Thanks to you all
For being so updated
My thankfulness for the sacred text
you have engraved on my obelisk
The hieroglyphics carved means so much
In my journey to the seven seas
You stood to be my beacon on the storm
You stood as a tree seeing my history
Thanks once again for the friendship
Painting my days really worth remembering
This is for every girl that has gossiped about me.
This is for every boy that has ever broken my heart.
This is for all the friends that I thought I had, but in the end just turned out to be backstabbers.
This is for all the people that told me I couldn’t make it.
This is for anyone that has ever said I wasn’t good enough.
This is for all the ones that enjoyed kicking me while I was down.
This is for all the ones that pushed me behind just as I was getting ahead.
This is for all the people that have ever made me feel less than what I really was.
This is for all the kids that made fun of me because I was different.
This is for the ones that told me I was a failure, and made me believe it.
Because of you, I am the person that I want to be.
Because of you, I have learned to overcome all the insults that have been thrown at me.
You challenged me to fight for the kind of life that I wanted, not the kind of life you saw for me.
I am a much stronger person than I used to be.
I’m not that weak little girl that you used to know.
I’m not that little kid that wouldn’t mount to anything.
I am so much more than that.
Because of your judgment I have realized that nothing would hold me back.
You have done so much more than you think.
So, thanks.
This is to any person that has ever befriended me.
This is to every hand that has ever helped me when I was down.
This is for everyone that believed in me.
This is to all the people that gave me strength to follow my dreams.
This is for all the people who taught me to figure out who I am, and to accept the person I became.
This is for anyone who has ever said, “Good job! ” when I thought that I had ruined everything.
This is for all the people that stood behind me.
This is for all the ones that stood up for me.
This is to all the people that had hopes for me, even when I didn’t have any for myself.
This is for all the people that pushed me to go forward, even at times I wanted to stop completely.
Without you, I wouldn’t be who I am today.
Without you, I would still be the “nothing” that everyone thought I was.
Without you, I would still be that scared little girl, afraid to try anything new.
You made me realize how much I was really worth.
You made me realize that I wasn’t alone.
You made me realize that the world hadn’t turned it’s back on me,
I turned my back on the world.
Because of you, I am the person that I have always wanted to be.
Because of you, I like who I am.
Because of you, My entire life has changed for the better.
So, thanks.
Sometimes a grateful word is said
In reply to a kindness paid
But no word has any greater rank
Than a word from the heart, saying, "THANKS."
She thanked
the cancer
for finally
giving her
the gift of
Death.
Meeting you was the moment I still can remember it
Hearing well-intentioned word I still can feel it
Letting you in here in my heart I still envision it
Ignoring long distance is how I still love it
Thanks to Raven
Thanks for you’ve given
Thanks for being part of me
Thanks to my friend
Thanks for loving it in me
Thanks for this healing end.
Trusting more than trust is what I find in you
Forgetting all my sorrow is what I love in you
Finding light through the hours is what I have in you
Losing dark yesterday is what I need in you.
Thanks to Raven
Thanks to your heart
Thanks for not letting me apart
Thanks to Phillip Gillen
Thanks for you’ve forgiven
Thank you, for your own art.
You have in your hand what I understand
You are part of what I’ve planned
You’ve got more than I can be
This is my heart what you can see.
How about no longer being unfaithful friend
How about getting limits with no final end
How about hugging your heart to hold you tight
How about remembering you each day and night…
Thanks to my soul mate
Thanks to my own fate
Thanks to my hopelessness
Thanks to my sadness
Thanks to your idea
Thanks to … thank to India…
Thanks for your fresh Spirit
You supply each day
Thanks for guidance
Along the way.
Thanks for birds
And the music they sing,
Thanks for dogs
And the affection they bring.
Thanks for cats, big and small -
I'm amazed at how
You created them all.
Thanks for the sky,
Blue or cloudy,
Thanks for storms
When nature gets rowdy!
Thanks for sex
It feels so good,
Thanks for renewing
A good attitude.
Thanks for friends
In heaven and earth
They're priceless -
That's what they're worth.
Thanks for skill
You gladly endow,
Thanks for inspiring
And showing me how.
I'll keep this short,
And right to the point,
Thanks for keeping
My nose out of joint!
HER griefs were the hours
When my struggle was sore,--
Her joys were the powers
That the climber upbore.
Her home is the boundless
Free ocean that seems
To rock, calm and soundless,
My galleon of dreams.
Half hers are the glancing
Creations that throng
With pageant and dancing
The ways of my song.
My fires when they dwindle
Are lit from her brand;
Men see them rekindle
Nor guess by whose hand.
Of thanks to requite her
No least thought is hers,--
And therefore I write her,
Once, thanks in a verse.
Thank you for being here.
to help me and console me.
You brighten my day
and you take away
my fears
and my tears.
Thank you, Lord, that I awoke
to see the rising sun
I pray the deeds I so today
Will merit thy well done.
Thank you for the singing
of the songsters in the trees,
and for the dewey fragrance
borne on the morning breeze.
Thank you for my loved ones
So precious, Lord to me
Guide their footsteps father
and keep them close to thee!
Thanks for life eternal
That Jesus came to give
For who so ever walks with him.
shall forever with him live.
Thanks for all thy blessings
bestowed as we walk daily on
keep us safe through out the night
to be awakened at the dawn.
Thank you,
Thanks for looking after me
Thanks for having someone to look upto and admire
Thanks for giving me time
Thanks for giving me space
Thanks for giving me advice
Thanks for making me laugh
Thanks for making me cry
Thanks for making me sing
Thanks for making me sigh
Thanks for giving me everything you can
Thank you
Thanks for being that kind
In my heart and mind
I'll prosper your way
To give worth something to say
I call him love
Through the open sky
For he’s above
In each of my try
So much of his given
For all to feel
What time have driven
Into the real
Thanks for bringing mountain
On to the faraway
The drips of your fountain
Shall always stay
I call him love
Through the open sky
For he’s above
In each of my try
Thanks for this striking earth
And everything free
In times own worth
And giving it to me
I saw you,
You.
Not an outward imitation,
But you, inside.
Your radiance filled my world,
And my thoughts were you,
Just you.
And, you made me happy.
Thanks.
And if nothing else happens,
That did.
And that,
Makes you worth more,
Than anything,
I could ever hope for,
Or want.
Thanks for this and thanks for that
Thanks for the known and thanks for the unknown
Thanks for the things loved
Thanks for the unloved
Thanks thanks thanks
Thanks for people of all shapes and sizes
Thanks for the hearts small and large
Thanks for the talents and gifts of every soul
Thanks Thanks Thanks
Even when life deals us lemons, we give thanks and make lemonade.
Even when the dark clouds loom ever so close to our person, we give thanks.
Nothing or no one can stop us from giving thanks. So in this, we give thanks for the wisdom and grace in being able to give thanks.
Thanks for being there
Always being so aware
Thanks for being near when I needed you here
Thanks for staying so close when I needed you the most
Thanks for the love your rain on me like a dove
Always seeming as if you are from right above
Thanks for the times you seem to help me enjoy love
Thanks for being here when I need someone near
Thanks for being there
Also for being so fair
Thanks for saying hi
When they all shouted good-bye
Thanks for giving me the time of day
When all your friends didn’t bother to say hey
the castles of salzburg
the prairies of prussia
the tundras of russia
the rivers of Arno ang the Volga
the towers of France and America
the snow in Dubai and the islands miniaturized
in his world
all these beautiful places
she says, she had been there
except the place
in his heart. She is so sorry.
She has not seen
love there.
I don't know how you do it,
your calm tone and your different views.
No matter what's happening you make me think I can do it.
These past few weeks have been hell on earth,
I needed you and you were there.
Every time I needed your help,
you were there for me.
Every time I needed a favor,
you did it without thinking twice.
Every time I need advice,
you gave me wisdom I never could have thought of.
Whenever I was down,
you cracked a joke and made me smile.
Whenever I felt totally confused,
you lit my way.
You were the ray of light through the dark,
the feeling of joy in the sorrow,
you were my lifeboat after the wreckage,
you gave me hope even in the bleakest of times.
Look what I'm trying to say,
Is thanks for everything.
I really can't describe it,
it's nice to have someone truly care.
If you ever need help, you know where I am.
If you ever need a favor, I'll be there.
Friends till the end, and I mean every word.
Friends till the end of time, partners through anything.
Through thick and thin, happy and sad,
Best Friends never say die.
I feel impelled to say a big 'THANK YOU '
to all my PH friends...
Who've inspired me to continue
to write, through to  the bitter end....
Though simple be my poetry,
complexities adrift, , , ,
I am thrilled my words of
heartfelt emotions
are  giving you a lift...
SO once again to one and all
your comments make my plight
a pleasure to continue
with my inspired need to write...
Lovey dovey mush at times
not everyones cup of tea...
but inbetween I aim to suprise
just you wait and see...
There's a lot more to my
hidden talents..
I keep bottle up inside...
No longer does this Lady
feel the need to hide......
................................... ...............................................
THANKS  to you all on POEMHUNTER
I can't believe I started off with one Poem
and now have over 70...
where did they all come from? ? ?
I suprise myself at times....
I started out long ago
with a handful of dreams,
but through the years,
every one of them vanished
or so it seemed to me.
They say that chance
plays a big part in our lives,
and it was by chance
someone recognised me
from an old photograph
Now my dreams have returned
and slowly each are coming true.
Just as I turned away
from the road a head,
I have turned back to greater things.
Once I abandoned my life,
felt it was going nowhere.
Thanks to chance
I have found myself again
and a brighter future somewhere.
10 April 2008
MY FATHER SAID
ALONG LONG TIME AGO
HE SAID SON TAKE A GOOD LOOK AROUND
AND SEE HOW BEAUTIFUL THIS LAND IS
AND DON'T LET ANYONE BRING IT DOWN
BECAUSE THIS IS YOUR HOME
ONCE MY HOME UNTIL I GOT ILL
BUT BEFORE I DIE
AND YOU BURY ME UNDER THIS HILL
LET ME TELL YOU A STORY
WHEN I WAS LOOKING FOR A PLACE
TO CALL HOME
I WOULD WALK MILES
UNTIL I FOUND A SPOT TO DIG
AND I WAS GONNA BUILD IT
ON MY OWN
BUILD IT ON THIS GREAT LAND
AND I WILL BUILD IT
WITH THESE HANDS
AND WHEN I'M DONE
GONNA HANG THE FLAG SO HIGH
SO ALL COULD SEE
WHO EVER MIGHT COME
LET FREEDOM STILLS LIVES
THE WAY OUR FOUNDING FATHERS
WANTING IT TO BE
AND STILL TILL THIS DAY
WE ARE STILL FREE
THANKS TO THE MAN
AND WOMEN
WHO FOUGHT AND GAVE UP THERE LIVES
FOR US TO STAY FREE
THE WAY OUR FOUNDING FATHERS
WANTING IT TO BE
SO SON BE PROUD OF YOUR HOME
BUT MOST OF ALL YOUR FREEDOM
You wait, always wait,
equally places and states
of mind:
mountain-top, your
snow solitude call
drifts unbearably down
to my suburban burden,
and you,
o hidden highway
every lane leads to
should we choose
to follow,
you wait,
and when I
am done forgetting
I will come,
I will come again
Thanks to the native Indians,
Who saved those arriving in ill health
And disease.
As they traveled and arrived from the South,
To bear the blunt of the cold...
On the East Coast.
Even though history will not dare,
To reveal the truth.
Let those aware of your sacrifices...
Declare to you our thanks,
As we worship in our prayers.
With blessings to you,
On this Thanksgiving Day!
In Bob Dylan’s backyard
there were twelve chapped faces
huddled in an old church basement
a poetry reading volunteer
and her nervous boyfriend
the host, a poet from California
finishing her second book
an insurance salesman
who never met a poet before
a scruffy bearded old man
who said he was going to move to Mexico
tomorrow
two Chicanas, a secretary from Michigan
an actress from Texas
a Peruvian woman who was an Art Director
and her son, who thought poetry was for sissies
an older Indian woman only
wearing a shawl
and three people who left
before I noticed them
all staring at me
as if I was a log
in the fireplace
crackling poems
into the night
Thanks to you
I can no longer open up and let my guard down
Thanks to you
I wonderif the next man I meet will be online fooling around
Thanks to you
I question if he will also be looking for the next best thing
Thanks to you
I have no hope in what tomorrow could bring
Thanks to you
I trust no one
Thanks to you
My days are no longer fun
Thanks to you
My tears still fall like rain
Thanks to you
Everyday my heart is in pain
Thanks to you
I obsess about what is so unloveable about me
Thanks to you
I am a prisoner to my oun obsessive thought and you hold the key
Thanks to you
I have picked myslf apart
Thanks to you
I dissected every piece of my heart
Thanks to you
I now reside in an emotional tomb
Thanks to you
Within my heart love will no longer bloom
Thanks to you
You never let me live my life my way
You say it was in my best interest
But was it really or was it just in your best interest
Guess we'll never know because we don't talk, anymore
Thanks To You
If I wanted to be a dentist that wasn't good enough
If I wanted to be a doctor it was too easy
If I wanted to be President of the United States of America
I could do better, but I didn't
Thanks To You
If I got a 'B' on my report card
That got me in trouble
So I would try harder and get and 'A'
But I still felt bad that it wasn't an 'A+'
Thanks To You
Well guess what, I rebelled
Thanks To You
My life isn't what it should be
Thanks To You
I don't dream anymore
Thanks To You
And you made it impossible for me to forget
What you did and how you treated me
And look at me now, this is all
Thanks To You
Your pensive pen that is filled with honeyed thoughts,
Inks in my bossom with nectarous qoute;
Your marmalade of love flavors my heart;
Your luscious words blossom in my ardour's pot.
Your scarlet rose of cordiality,
Perfumes ev'ry morning of my day;
Heaven-scented juice from sapphire sky,
Showers my soul, blazes my very eyes,
Ev'ry time you wave your sweetest hi.
Your verdant pasture of solicitude,
Kissed by the xanthous sun of beatitude;
Emblazons my sight with ardency,
To see the pinnacle of heyday,
With a rainbow of celestial bliss,
Flamboyantly drawn on welkin's face.
Your candied grin of encouragement,
Became my character's ornament,
With blithesome colors from the firmanent,
Of burning tons of inspiration,
Fuels me to reach my aspirations,
Intensifies my motivation,
To touch the countenance of my ambition.
Thank you for the beauteous things you've taught,
For the barrels of sweetness you've brought;
Made me ready to face the world,
Fearless, confident, positive and bold,
To do the things they think I can't do,
To cease them from throwing their flaks of boo.
What I am now, I owe to you;
With all my heart, I thank you...
Thanks for always being there for me.
Thanks for that person you helped me to be
Thanks that you never let me be alone
Thanks that forever you promise to be my own
Thanks for black memories you helped me to remove
Thanks for loyalty that every day you prove
Thanks for the smile you put back on my face
Thanks that my loneliness has got no more space
Thanks for your patience that time I was so fool
Thanks you forget that whenever you get my call
If life has got some justice I'd thank you forever
It wouldn't be enough, , , , for the best person ever
The Other Night I got the blues and tried to smile in vain.
I couldn’t chuck a chuckle at the foolery of Twain;
When Ward and Billings failed to bring a twinkle to my eye,
I turned my eyes to Hansard of the fifteenth of July.
I laughed and roared until I thought that I was growing fat,
And all the boarders came to see what I was laughing at:
It rose the risibility of some, I grieve to state—
That foolish speech of Brentnall’s in the Vote of Thanks debate.
O Brentnall, of the olden school and cold sarcastic style!
You’ll take another WORKER now and stick it on your file;
“We’re very fond of poetry,”—we hope that this is quite
As entertaining as the lines you read the other night.
We know that you are honest, but ’twas foolish to confess
You read and file the WORKER; we expected something less.
We think an older member would have told the people, so—
“My attention was directed to a certain print” (—you know).
The other night in Parliament you quoted something true,
Where truth is very seldom heard except from one or two.
You know that when the people rise the other side must fall,
And you are on the other side, and that explains it all.
You hate the Cause by instinct, the instinct of your class,
And fear the reformation that shall surely come to pass;
Your nest is feathered by the “laws” which you of course defend,
Your daily bread is buttered on the upper crust, my friend.
“We aim at broader interests,” you say, and so we do;
We aim at “vested interests” (the gun is loaded too).
We hate the wrongs we write against. We’ve felt the curse of Greed.
There’s little nonsense in the school where Labour earns its creed.
But you know little of the Cause that you are running down.
You would deny there’s misery and hardship in the town;
Yet I could take you through the hells where Poverty holds sway,
And show you things you’d not forget until your dying day.
O Brentnall! Have you ever tramped the city streets within?
And felt the pavement wearing through the leather, sock, and skin;
And looked for work, and asked for work, and begged for work in vain,
Until you cared not though you ne’er might touch your tools again.
O Brentnall! Have you ever felt the summer sun and dirt?
And wore the stiffened socks for weeks, for weeks the single shirt?
And shunned your friends like small-pox—passing on the other side—
And crept away in shadows with your misery and pride?
Another solemn member rose encouraged by the cheers,
And talked of serving medals to our gallant volunteers,
And extra uniforms, that they might hand the old ones on
“As heirlooms in the family” when they are dead and gone.
But since the state of future times is very much in doubt,
They’d better wear their uniforms, they’d better wear them out;
They may some day be sorry for the front that they have shown,
And, e’er the nap is worn away, they mightn’t like it known.
The children of a future time shall read, with awe profound,
How goslings did the goose-step while a gander led ’em round.
O Brentnall! Speak your periods into a phonograph,
That generations yet to rise may lay them down and laugh.
I wouldn’t trust the future much; Posterity might own
That sense of the ridiculous that you have never shown;
And not the smiles of Mammon, nor the pride of place and pelf,
Can soothe the thought that one has made a jackass of one’s self.
We’re low, but we would teach you if you’re willing to be taught,
That in the wilderness of print are tartars still uncaught;
And if you hunt in such a way—believe we do not jest—
Your chance to catch one is as good, and better than the best.
Be very sure about the mark before you cast the stone,
And, well, perhaps ’twould be as well to leave the muse alone.
You’ll call it egotism? Yes: but still I think that I
Might hit a little harder if I only liked to try.
All around the world,
poems are talking among themselves
when the books are shut,
when the computers are switched off,
when old-fashioned poets put down
chewed pencils, sucked ballpens,
lips a little stained with the flavour
of ink that’s washable or permanent;
poems talking among themselves
in that language that poems understand,
that poets seek to write;
poems murmuring, complaining,
sometimes shouting desperately,
who are these people who
have dared to speak our language? What
is their right and reason? When
did they arise? Where
did they get their ideas? Why
do they even try? How
do they hope to improve on this? What
is a poet, anyway?
The tumult of their languages,
the babel of upraised voices
speaking, though,  with that unutterable
beauty of that sound which can really act,
can change the world of change,
can touch the heart for lifetimes,
melts a heart of stone,
brings tears to eyes needful of tears,
opens clouds to blue sky and to sunlight,
watches angels as they ascend and descend,
speaks of, speaks,
the unknown, formless, eternal, ever present –
the tumult dies down; in the
silence and the stillness,
only the pure sound of sound itself; and
in that sound the absolution:
forgive them, O Muse of Poetry:
they know not what they do..
yet in their hearts, they know
what must be said.
The pain, exquisite;
found worthy; loved.
While reading these poems my heart wanted to cry
as the words and the meanings brought a tear to my eye
remembering the innocence of childhood
which I as a teen greatly misunderstood.
Plz do not stop pouring out youre heart
because in mine youre poems will always have a part.
Is it the tear measures hate and love?
Is it the laughter gages one’s kindness?
Is it the fame evaluates the popularity?
Or is it the failure determines the necessity?
If there’s no end
How to determine the beginning?
If there’s no ugly
How to assess the beautiful?
If there’s no excellent
How to distinguish the fool?
If there’s no big
How can we notice small?
i will post even if this is unfinished...thnks for all...
The last benches of the class rooms,
know more no of love stories,
million times heard yet never boring,
the secret eyes gazing their secret loves,
a perfect place to sit and talk,
an industry of imaginations, fascinations and dreams,
a perfect friend's  shoulder to lean when the tears fall,
cool spot when the window breeze  caress' loneliness,
earphone and a bit of solitude a music lover's paradise,
broken hearts and unbreakable words all at same place,
scribbling pad for the new born poets,
engravings of timeless poem nothing but the lover's name,
a silent member in every group photo,
the only old fellow who understands youths,
a memory that can never be stolen from my heart!
WE THRIVE THANKS TO THE BEAUTY
We thrive thanks to the Beauty
Of Small Acts of Kindness,
Which each day save us
From the Ugliness
Of being only for ourselves.
Forty words:
Falling in love with love,
My heart was aglow.
'Addicted to Love'
In a world long ago
When nightingales sang
And wedding bells rang.
Music played soft and low.
Romance is forever true.
And I am 'addicted' to
Loving you.
thanks for all who commented and thanks for who inspired me,
who let it be from Top 500 poems
thanks for that sailor who left his mermaid on that island while waiting under one  tree..
thanks for who let my tears fall when harshly criticized me..
thanks for who felt me..............
what does matter is being able to reach you...to share you my
thoughts and my aching heart's beats..
A future time, a future place
Here on Earth or out in space
The doors are open if you choose
To learn the skills that you can use
Computers you use every day
Atomic medicine is here to stay
A walk on the moon is a thing of the past
We're on our way to the stars at long last
Radar, and laser, and quasar, and such,
These words sound strange, but they mean so much
Learn these things, and many more
See what wonders the world has in store
Don't let folly lead you away
From Learning the skills you need so today
Have fun in your life, but don't learn with sorrow
That the fun of today won't feed you tomorrow
Be good to yourself, and study with zest,
And, soon, you will find you're ahead of the rest
A future time, a future place
Here on Earth or out in space
The doors are open, come on through
Learn the skills, it's up to you
Always for the first time
Hardly do I know you by sight
You return at some hour of the night to a house at an angle to my window
A wholly imaginary house
It is there that from one second to the next
In the inviolate darkness
I anticipate once more the fascinating rift occurring
The one and only rift
In the facade and in my heart
The closer I come to you
In reality
The more the key sings at the door of the unknown room
Where you appear alone before me
At first you coalesce entirely with the brightness
The elusive angle of a curtain
It's a field of jasmine I gazed upon at dawn on a road in the vicinity of Grasse
With the diagonal slant of its girls picking
Behind them the dark falling wing of the plants stripped bare
Before them a T-square of dazzling light
The curtain invisibly raised
In a frenzy all the flowers swarm back in
It is you at grips with that too long hour never dim enough until sleep
You as though you could be
The same except that I shall perhaps never meet you
You pretend not to know I am watching you
Marvelously I am no longer sure you know
You idleness brings tears to my eyes
A swarm of interpretations surrounds each of your gestures
It's a honeydew hunt
There are rocking chairs on a deck there are branches that may well scratch you in the forest
There are in a shop window in the rue Notre-Dame-de-Lorette
Two lovely crossed legs caught in long stockings
Flaring out in the center of a great white clover
There is a silken ladder rolled out over the ivy
There is
By my leaning over the precipice
Of your presence and your absence in hopeless fusion
My finding the secret
Of loving you
Always for the first time
FOR one throb of the artery,
While on that old grey stone I Sat
Under the old wind-broken tree,
I knew that One is animate,
Mankind inanimate fantasy'.
And the time will be our time to pray
And the time will be our time to learn to love the people here on earth
And the time will be our time for us to learn to get along with the people Here on the earth
And the time will be our time to unite the world by bringing peole together All over the world
And our time will be the time to share some food with the homeless people That lives in the street here at home
But also we have to learn that we could end up like them if we don't Watch our money
The war will change many things in art and life, and among them, it is to be hoped, many of our own ideas as to what is, and what is not, "intellectual."
Thou, whose deep ways are in the sea,
Whose footsteps are not known,
To-night a world that turned from Thee
Is waiting -- at Thy Throne.
The towering Babels that we raised
Where scoffing sophists brawl,
The little Antichrists we praised --
The night is on them all.
The fool hath said . . . The fool hath said . ..
And we, who deemed him wise,
We who believed that Thou wast dead,
How should we seek Thine eyes?
How should we seek to Thee for power
Who scorned Thee yesterday?
How should we kneel, in this dread hour?
Lord, teach us how to pray!
Grant us the single heart, once more,
That mocks no sacred thing,
The Sword of Truth our fathers wore
When Thou wast Lord and King.
Let darkness unto darkness tell
Our deep unspoken prayer,
For, while our souls in darkness dwell,
We know that Thou art there.
Spring in my step
Spring in the air
Spring!
Spring!
Lingering everywhere.
Spring fever to follow,
But I don't care,
Spring, for new journeys,
I'll meet you there!
Where?
By the garden gate,
You silly thing,
It's an invitation to frolic
So let's begin to sing.
It's Spring!
Written first day of Spring 2010
Dorothy Alves Holmes
A Poet Who Loves To Sing
Once, at night, in the manor wood
My Love and I long silent stood,
Amazed that any heavens could
Decree to part us, bitterly repining.
My Love, in aimless love and grief,
Reached forth and drew aside a leaf
That just above us played the thief
And stole our starlight that for us was shining.
A star that had remarked her pain
Shone straightway down that leafy lane,
And wrought his image, mirror-plain,
Within a tear that on her lash hung gleaming.
"Thus Time," I cried, "is but a tear
Some one hath wept 'twixt hope and fear,
Yet in his little lucent sphere
Our star of stars, Eternity, is beaming."
AS the time draws nigh, glooming, a cloud,
A dread beyond, of I know not what, darkens me.
I shall go forth,
I shall traverse The States awhile--but I cannot tell whither or how
long;
Perhaps soon, some day or night while I am singing, my voice will
suddenly cease.
O book, O chants! must all then amount to but this?
Must we barely arrive at this beginning of us?... And yet it is
enough, O soul!
O soul! we have positively appear'd--that is enough.
A time to laugh, a time to cry,
A time to love, a time to sigh.
The love we feel is put in us to stay,
Love will make us stronger each and every
day.
A time to fear, a time to learn.
A time to trust, a time for concern.
The love we feel is real and pure,
Love is the answer and sometimes the cure.
A time for planting, a time to grow,
A time for knowledge of the important things
we must know.
Love is you love is me.
We are one and always will be.
My love for my fellow man, will never grow
dim,
I'll trust, I'll laugh and at times I'll
cry with him.
Now I know why love is put in me to stay,
For real love is not love until you give
it away.
Memories arrive unannounced
in the head, much inclined
to hold in thrall, let them bounce
about, and fill the mind.
Those thoughts when young,
energy filled, I watch hope to be
like them as further along
the pathway I go to my destiny.
Those times of reaching maturity,
now being singularly able,
and thinking one's immorality
to be and remain ever stable.
Watching those depart who want to stay
leaving me more and more alone.
Seeing them all here today
but tomorrow gone,
no semblance or clue of where,
old friends lost in space,
they've gone now, left us unaware,
the only clues hope and faith.
There's a time to enjoy
The flowers of spring
And all those pleasures
That summer will bring
But as the winds will change
And the summer will set
Nature paints a picture
That's hard to forget
Treasure the autumn
All those painted leaves
The crisp fall air
On those moon lit eves
It's a blessing at best
Not costing a dime
For all to enjoy
Yes --- it's autumn time..
Cherries of the night are riper
Than the cherries pluckt at noon
Gather to your fairy piper
When he pipes his magic tune:
Merry, merry,
Take a cherry;
Mine are sounder,
Mine are rounder,
Mine are sweeter
For the eater
Under the moon.
And you’ll be fairies soon.
In the cherry pluckt at night,
With the dew of summer swelling,
There’s a juice of pure delight,
Cool, dark, sweet, divinely smelling.
Merry, merry,
Take a cherry;
Mine are sounder,
Mine are rounder,
Mine are sweeter
For the eater
In the moonlight.
And you’ll be fairies quite.
When I sound the fairy call,
Gather here in silent meeting,
Chin to knee on the orchard wall,
Cooled with dew and cherries eating.
Merry, merry,
Take a cherry;
Mine are sounder,
Mine are rounder,
Mine are sweeter.
For the eater
When the dews fall.
And you’ll be fairies all.
Crowds of people shopping, here and there
A white blanket of snow everywhere
Pretty lights all aglow
Red, white, yellow, blue, and green
Signs of Christmas soon will be near
Tiny tots eyes will shine on Christmas morn
Jolly old St. Nick will arrive, in all the homes
Presents big ones, long ones, fat ones, and small ones
We're happy with them all, it's Christmas
But, what's the real meaning of Christmas?
It's not just presents we give or get
That night in the sky, a star shone over Bethlehem
Christ was born on Christmas Day.
In a manger because there was no room in the Inn that night
The three wise men brought gifts of Gold, Frankincense and myrrh.
So, Christ is Christmas time celebrated.
A half-hour more and you will lean
To gather me close in the old sweet way--
But oh, to the woman over the sea
Who will come at the close of day?
A half-hour more and I will hear
The key in the latch and the strong quick tread--
But oh, the woman over the sea
Waiting at dusk for one who is dead!
Find time, for this day shall soon be night
Find time to love, whilst you still have life
Find time to visit the sick and the old
Find time to embrace someone when they are cold.
Find time to love your family, and help a friend
Find time to invite a hungry person in
Find time to take a senior person for a walk
Find time for that someone that's lonely just to talk.
And when you've found time for these things
Rejoice and be happy for the satisfaction it brings.
Nothing is higher
Than honor and pride
No one is dearer
Than father and mother
There is priority
Even for good quality
Food is tested
Even if looked best
Friendship counts more
Its test can be made on floor
“Friend in deed is friend indeed”
Rest all people are full of greed
The legend is full of sayings
No one make specific drawings
It has path of its own
Its dependability is always known
No one goes near snake
As everybody knows “life is at stake”
Similarly dangerous people are kept at distance
As nobody would want to take any chance
Everything is precisely narrated
Good and bad is balanced and equated
Only it needs to be updated
From time to time and tested
From time to time
The clouds give rest
To the moon beholders..
Gently on the stream of time,
We are floating day by day,
In life's native boats sublime
We soon anchor in the bay.
We'll soon anchor in the haven,
Where the weary are at rest,
In that blissful port called Heaven,
Where are roaming now the blest.
CHORUS:
Be gentle, time be gentle with us,
While we are on life's troubled stream,
May life's foaming billows o'er us
Break away as day serene.
Gently on the stream of time,
We will swiftly glide along,
Till we reach the realm divine,
Then we'll join the heavenly throng,
Where our friends have gone before us
Waiting on the other shore.
In that home they sing in chorus,
"Welcome home the rich and poor."
Gently on the stream of time,
We shall shortly pass away,
We shall reach the heavenly clime
If God's commands we obey.
Gently on the stream of time
We are going one by one,
Listening to the evening chime
On life's journey going home.
I Am Time, Time, Indelible, Indestructible
I am Time,
Time Indelible, Indestructible,
Time, Time,
Timeless Time
With the Kaalchakra, the Disc of Age
Rotating and rounding,
The Wheel of Time keeps moving
And with it Human Destiny,
The fate and time of it.
I am Time Stronger and In Strength.
Mein Samay, Samay, Akshay, Ajar-amar
Mein samay hun,
Akshay samay, ajar-amar,
Samay, samay,
Samayvihin samay
Kaalchakra ke saath
Ghumta hua, chakkar deta,
Samay ka pahiya ghumta
Aur uske saath manviya bhagya,
Uska pralabhdh aur samay.
Mein samay balawan hun.
I had no time to hate, because
The grave would hinder me,
And life was not so ample I
Could finish enmity.
Nor had I time to love, but since
Some industry must be,
The little toil of love, I thought,
Was large enough for me.
*this poem was written about a friend,
and what she is going thru these days*
i quit cutting a while back
and im doing good
no slits on my wrists,
no blood going down my arm,
everything was fine
i had even quit using my 'rubber buddy'
but its not so easy
when your family is like mine
an alchoholic dad,
who's acts more like a kid than i do
hes always yelling
and calling me names
a stubborn sister,
who loves to blackmail me
and who acts like i get everything
when everything=all of their crap
a god worshiping mother,
who thinks im the one causing her to take meds
she blames me when mistakes happen
she even thought i was pregnant one time
but as hard as it was,
i held back the anger, the hurt, every feeling
and now i wana let it loose
the tamed lion wants out!
i promised my brother,
i wouldnt cut again
and i have to stick to my promise
no matter what!
but every now and then
i catch myself, looking at the razorblade again
In a dark time, the eye begins to see,
I meet my shadow in the deepening shade;
I hear my echo in the echoing wood--
A lord of nature weeping to a tree.
I live between the heron and the wren,
Beasts of the hill and serpents of the den.
What's madness but nobility of soul
At odds with circumstance? The day's on fire!
I know the purity of pure despair,
My shadow pinned against a sweating wall.
That place among the rocks--is it a cave,
Or a winding path? The edge is what I have.
A steady storm of correspondences!
A night flowing with birds, a ragged moon,
And in broad day the midnight come again!
A man goes far to find out what he is--
Death of the self in a long, tearless night,
All natural shapes blazing unnatural light.
Dark, dark my light, and darker my desire.
My soul, like some heat-maddened summer fly,
Keeps buzzing at the sill. Which I is I?
A fallen man, I climb out of my fear.
The mind enters itself, and God the mind,
And one is One, free in the tearing wind.
Some say life is beautiful
some say its sad.
Some people see forests of green
some see stumps.
Doves fly peacefully in the sky.
Only to be chased away by vultures.
Some say that technology moves forward
Some say we're loosing knowledge.
Some people see gardens of daisies
Some see dead grass.
Does each generation move forward?
Or are we someday going to find ourselves back at the begining?
Some hope for world peace
Some hope with greed.
Some are destined to greatness
Some are never given a chance.
Suicide is more and more popular.
When did death become the only solution?
Some hope for a second chance
Some hope for the end.
Some are born able to fly
Some don't even have wings.
Is time a waste or is Life a waste of time?
If suddenly time were to 'stop'
No clocks or indications of passing
Would people go on with their lives?
Would we go into chaos?
In our day everything has a reason
To get from point A to point B
Marked by time
What if we didn't need a reason?
If we could just BE! ?
I thank God time and time again
I thank God every day
I am always thanking God
Or always trying to thank God-
But who am I to thank God?
And what does this really mean?
I have been given so much
And without God all will forever be nothing-
I thank God because I know I will always need God
I thank God because I fear God
I thank God because I truly appreciate what I have been given
God has given me so much. How can I not thank God?
Less time than it takes to say it, less tears than it takes to die; I've taken account of everything,
there you have it. I've made a census of the stones, they are as numerous as my fingers and some
others; I've distributed some pamphlets to the plants, but not all were willing to accept them. I've
kept company with music for a second only and now I no longer know what to think of suicide, for
if I ever want to part from myself, the exit is on this side and, I add mischievously, the entrance, the
re-entrance is on the other. You see what you still have to do. Hours, grief, I don't keep a
reasonable account of them; I'm alone, I look out of the window; there is no passerby, or rather no
one passes (underline passes). You don't know this man? It's Mr. Same. May I introduce Madam
Madam? And their children. Then I turn back on my steps, my steps turn back too, but I don't
know exactly what they turn back on. I consult a schedule; the names of the towns have been
replaced by the names of people who have been quite close to me. Shall I go to A, return to B,
change at X? Yes, of course I'll change at X. Provided I don't miss the connection with boredom!
There we are: boredom, beautiful parallels, ah! how beautiful the parallels are under God's
perpendicular.
LONG TIME I LAY IN LITTLE EASE
LONG time I lay in little ease
Where, placed by the Turanian,
Marseilles, the many-masted, sees
The blue Mediterranean.
Now songful in the hour of sport,
Now riotous for wages,
She camps around her ancient port,
As ancient of the ages.
Algerian airs through all the place
Unconquerably sally;
Incomparable women pace
The shadows of the alley.
And high o'er dark and graving yard
And where the sky is paler,
The golden virgin of the guard
Shines, beckoning the sailor.
She hears the city roar on high,
Thief, prostitute, and banker;
She sees the masted vessels lie
Immovably at anchor.
She sees the snowy islets dot
The sea's immortal azure,
And If, that castellated spot,
Tower, turret, and embrasure.
I
Ancestral Houses
SURELY among a rich man s flowering lawns,
Amid the rustle of his planted hills,
Life overflows without ambitious pains;
And rains down life until the basin spills,
And mounts more dizzy high the more it rains
As though to choose whatever shape it wills
And never stoop to a mechanical
Or servile shape, at others' beck and call.
Mere dreams, mere dreams! Yet Homer had not Sung
Had he not found it certain beyond dreams
That out of life's own self-delight had sprung
The abounding glittering jet; though now it seems
As if some marvellous empty sea-shell flung
Out of the obscure dark of the rich streams,
And not a fountain, were the symbol which
Shadows the inherited glory of the rich.
Some violent bitter man, some powerful man
Called architect and artist in, that they,
Bitter and violent men, might rear in stone
The sweetness that all longed for night and day,
The gentleness none there had ever known;
But when the master's buried mice can play.
And maybe the great-grandson of that house,
For all its bronze and marble, 's but a mouse.
O what if gardens where the peacock strays
With delicate feet upon old terraces,
Or else all Juno from an urn displays
Before the indifferent garden deities;
O what if levelled lawns and gravelled ways
Where slippered Contemplation finds his ease
And Childhood a delight for every sense,
But take our greatness with our violence?
What if the glory of escutcheoned doors,
And buildings that a haughtier age designed,
The pacing to and fro on polished floors
Amid great chambers and long galleries, lined
With famous portraits of our ancestors;
What if those things the greatest of mankind
Consider most to magnify, or to bless,
But take our greatness with our bitterness?
II
My House
An ancient bridge, and a more ancient tower,
A farmhouse that is sheltered by its wall,
An acre of stony ground,
Where the symbolic rose can break in flower,
Old ragged elms, old thorns innumerable,
The sound of the rain or sound
Of every wind that blows;
The stilted water-hen
Crossing Stream again
Scared by the splashing of a dozen cows;
A winding stair, a chamber arched with stone,
A grey stone fireplace with an open hearth,
A candle and written page.
Il Penseroso's Platonist toiled on
In some like chamber, shadowing forth
How the daemonic rage
Imagined everything.
Benighted travellers
From markets and from fairs
Have seen his midnight candle glimmering.
Two men have founded here.  A man-at-arms
Gathered a score of horse and spent his days
In this tumultuous spot,
Where through long wars and sudden night alarms
His dwinding score and he seemed castaways
Forgetting and forgot;
And I, that after me
My bodily heirs may find,
To exalt a lonely mind,
Befitting emblems of adversity.
III
My Table
Two heavy trestles, and a board
Where Sato's gift, a changeless sword,
By pen and paper lies,
That it may moralise
My days out of their aimlessness.
A bit of an embroidered dress
Covers its wooden sheath.
Chaucer had not drawn breath
When it was forged.  In Sato's house,
Curved like new moon, moon-luminous
It lay five hundred years.
Yet if no change appears
No moon; only an aching heart
Conceives a changeless work of art.
Our learned men have urged
That when and where 'twas forged
A marvellous accomplishment,
In painting or in pottery, went
From father unto son
And through the centuries ran
And seemed unchanging like the sword.
Soul's beauty being most adored,
Men and their business took
Me soul's unchanging look;
For the most rich inheritor,
Knowing that none could pass Heaven's door,
That loved inferior art,
Had such an aching heart
That he, although a country's talk
For silken clothes and stately walk.
Had waking wits; it seemed
Juno's peacock screamed.
IV
My Descendants
Having inherited a vigorous mind
From my old fathers, I must nourish dreams
And leave a woman and a man behind
As vigorous of mind, and yet it seems
Life scarce can cast a fragrance on the wind,
Scarce spread a glory to the morning beams,
But the torn petals strew the garden plot;
And there's but common greenness after that.
And what if my descendants lose the flower
Through natural declension of the soul,
Through too much business with the passing hour,
Through too much play, or marriage with a fool?
May this laborious stair and this stark tower
Become a roofless min that the owl
May build in the cracked masonry and cry
Her desolation to the desolate sky.
The primum Mobile that fashioned us
Has made the very owls in circles move;
And I, that count myself most prosperous,
Seeing that love and friendship are enough,
For an old neighbour's friendship chose the house
And decked and altered it for a girl's love,
And know whatever flourish and decline
These stones remain their monument and mine.
V
The Road at My Door
An affable Irregular,
A heavily-built Falstaffian man,
Comes cracking jokes of civil war
As though to die by gunshot were
The finest play under the sun.
A brown Lieutenant and his men,
Half dressed in national uniform,
Stand at my door, and I complain
Of the foul weather, hail and rain,
A pear-tree broken by the storm.
I count those feathered balls of soot
The moor-hen guides upon the stream.
To silence the envy in my thought;
And turn towards my chamber, caught
In the cold snows of a dream.
VI
The Stare's Nest by My Window
The bees build in the crevices
Of loosening masonry, and there
The mother birds bring grubs and flies.
My wall is loosening; honey-bees,
Come build in the empty house of the state.
We are closed in, and the key is turned
On our uncertainty; somewhere
A man is killed, or a house burned,
Yet no cleat fact to be discerned:
Come build in he empty house of the stare.
A barricade of stone or of wood;
Some fourteen days of civil war;
Last night they trundled down the road
That dead young soldier in his blood:
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
We had fed the heart on fantasies,
The heart's grown brutal from the fare;
More Substance in our enmities
Than in our love; O honey-bees,
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
VII
I see Phantoms of Hatred and of the Heart's
Fullness and of the Coming Emptiness
I climb to the tower-top and lean upon broken stone,
A mist that is like blown snow is sweeping over all,
Valley, river, and elms, under the light of a moon
That seems unlike itself, that seems unchangeable,
A glittering sword out of the east.  A puff of wind
And those white glimmering fragments of the mist sweep by.
Frenzies bewilder, reveries perturb the mind;
Monstrous familiar images swim to the mind's eye.
'Vengeance upon the murderers,' the cry goes up,
'Vengeance for Jacques Molay.' In cloud-pale rags, or in lace,
The rage-driven, rage-tormented, and rage-hungry troop,
Trooper belabouring trooper, biting at arm or at face,
Plunges towards nothing, arms and fingers spreading wide
For the embrace of nothing; and I, my wits astray
Because of all that senseless tumult, all but cried
For vengeance on the murderers of Jacques Molay.
Their legs long, delicate and slender, aquamarine their eyes,
Magical unicorns bear ladies on their backs.
The ladies close their musing eyes.  No prophecies,
Remembered out of Babylonian almanacs,
Have closed the ladies' eyes, their minds are but a pool
Where even longing drowns under its own excess;
Nothing but stillness can remain when hearts are full
Of their own sweetness, bodies of their loveliness.
The cloud-pale unicorns, the eyes of aquamarine,
The quivering half-closed eyelids, the rags of cloud or of lace,
Or eyes that rage has brightened, arms it has made lean,
Give place to an indifferent multitude, give place
To brazen hawks.  Nor self-delighting reverie,
Nor hate of what's to come, nor pity for what's gone,
Nothing but grip of claw, and the eye's complacency,
The innumerable clanging wings that have put out the moon.
I turn away and shut the door, and on the stair
Wonder how many times I could have proved my worth
In something that all others understand or share;
But O! ambitious heart, had such a proof drawn forth
A company of friends, a conscience set at ease,
It had but made us pine the more.  The abstract joy,
The half-read wisdom of daemonic images,
Suffice the ageing man as once the growing boy.
And did those feet in ancient time
Walk upon England's mountains green?
And was the holy Lamb of God
On England's pleasant pastures seen?
And did the Countenance Divine
Shine forth upon our clouded hills?
And was Jerusalem builded here
Among these dark Satanic mills?
Bring me my bow of burning gold:
Bring me my arrows of desire:
Bring me my spear: O clouds unfold!
Bring me my chariot of fire.
I will not cease from mental fight,
Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand
Till we have built Jerusalem
In England's green and pleasant land.
Never the time and the place
And the loved one all together!
This path--how soft to pace!
This May -- what magic weather!
Where is the loved one's face?
In a dream that loved one's face meets mine,
But the house is narrow, the place is bleak
Where, outside, rain and wind combine
With a furtive ear, if I strive to speak,
With a hostile eye at my flushing cheek,
With a malice that marks each word, each sign!
O enemy sly and serpentine,
Uncoil thee from the waking man!
Do I hold the Past
Thus firm and fast
Yet doubt if the Future hold I can?
This path so soft to pace shall lead
Thro' the magic of May to herself indeed!
Or narrow if needs the house must be,
Outside are the storms and strangers: we
Oh, close, safe, warm sleep I and she, --
I and she!
THERE is no time like the old time, when you and I were young,
When the buds of April blossomed, and the birds of spring-time sung!
The garden's brightest glories by summer suns are nursed,
But oh, the sweet, sweet violets, the flowers that opened first!
There is no place like the old place, where you and I were born,
Where we lifted first our eyelids on the splendors of the morn
From the milk-white breast that warmed us, from the clinging arms that
bore,
Where the dear eyes glistened o'er us that will look on us no more!
There is no friend like the old friend, who has shared our morning days,
No greeting like his welcome, no homage like his praise
Fame is the scentless sunflower, with gaudy crown of gold;
But friendship is the breathing rose, with sweets in every fold.
There is no love like the old love, that we courted in our pride;
Though our leaves are falling, falling, and we're fading side by side,
There are blossoms all around us with the colors of our dawn,
And we live in borrowed sunshine when the day-star is withdrawn.
There are no times like the old times,--they shall never be forgot!
There is no place like the old place,--keep green the dear old spot!
There are no friends like our old friends,--may Heaven prolong their
lives
There are no loves like our old loves,--God bless our loving wives!
Distanced by dreams,
of yesteryears life,
Days come and go,
like a waves short life.
Hours slip through thoughts,
As sand slips through fingers.
I wish the world would slow.
Time to think and plan for tommorow.
As eyes succumb to the weight of the night,
Morning emerges with it's sharp light.
Days drift into new days,
each one a stage of plays.
There is no time to look and to love,
Faces flash by with eyes to the ground,
I am not hereI make no sound.
Oh for the swords of former time!
Oh for the men who bore them,
When, arm'd for Right, they stood sublime,
And tyrants crouch'd before them:
When free yet, ere courts began
With honours to enslave him,
The best honours worn by Man
Were those which Virtue gave him.
Oh for the swords, etc., etc.
Oh for the Kings who flourish'd then!
Oh for the pomp that crown'd them,
When hearts and hands of freeborn men
Were all the ramparts round them.
When, safe built on bosoms true,
The throne was but the centre,
Round which Love a circle drew
That Treason durst not enter.
Oh, for the Kings who flourish'd then!
Oh for the pomp that crown'd them,
When hearts and hands of freeborn men
Were all the ramparts round them!
My spirit is too weak; mortality
Weighs heavily on me like unwilling sleep,
And each imagined pinnacle and steep
Of godlike hardship tells me I must die
Like a sick eagle looking at the sky.
Yet 'tis a gentle luxury to weep,
That I have not the cloudy winds to keep
Fresh for the opening of the morning's eye.
Such dim-conceived glories of the brain
Bring round the heart an indescribable feud;
So do these wonders a most dizzy pain,
That mingles Grecian grandeur with the rude
Wasting of old Time -with a billowy main,
A sun, a shadow of a magnitude.
Fly, envious Time, till thou run out thy race,
Call on the lazy leaden-stepping hours,
Whose speed is but the heavy plummet's pace;
And glut thyself with what thy womb devours,
Which is no more than what is false and vain,
And merely mortal dross;
So little is our loss,
So little is thy gain.
For when as each thing bad thou hast intombed,
And last of all thy greedy self consumed,
Then long Eternity shall greet our bliss
With an individual kiss,
And Joy shall overtake us as a flood;
When every thing that is sincerely good
And perfectly divine,
With truth, and peace, and love, shall ever shine
About the supreme throne
Of Him, t' whose happy-making sight alone
When once our heav'nly-guided soul shall climb,
Then, all this earthly grossness quit,
Attired with stars, we shall for ever sit,
Triumphing over Death, and Chance, and thee, O Time.
Open, Time, and let him pass
Shortly where his feet would be!
Like a leaf at Michaelmas
Swooning from the tree,
Ere its hour the manly mind
Trembles in a sure decrease,
Nor the body now can find
Any hold on peace.
Take him, weak and overworn;
Fold about his dying dream
Boyhood, and the April morn,
And the rolling stream:
Weather on a sunny ridge,
Showery weather, far from here;
Under some deep-ivied bridge,
Water rushing clear:
Water quick to cross and part,
(Golden light on silver sound),
Weather that was next his heart
All the world around!
Soon upon his vision break
These, in their remembered blue;
He shall toil no more, but wake
Young, in air he knew.
He has done with roofs and men.
Open, Time, and let him pass,
Vague and innocent again,
Into country grass.
OR, from that Sea of Time,
Spray, blown by the wind--a double winrow-drift of weeds and shells;
(O little shells, so curious-convolute! so limpid-cold and voiceless!
Yet will you not, to the tympans of temples held,
Murmurs and echoes still bring up--Eternity's music, faint and far,
Wafted inland, sent from Atlantica's rim--strains for the Soul of the
Prairies,
Whisper'd reverberations--chords for the ear of the West, joyously
sounding
Your tidings old, yet ever new and untranslatable;)
Infinitessimals out of my life, and many a life,
(For not my life and years alone I give--all, all I give;)         10
These thoughts and Songs--waifs from the deep--here, cast high and
dry,
Wash'd on America's shores.
Currents of starting a Continent new,
Overtures sent to the solid out of the liquid,
Fusion of ocean and land--tender and pensive waves,
(Not safe and peaceful only--waves rous'd and ominous too.
Out of the depths, the storm's abysms--Who knows whence? Death's
waves,
Raging over the vast, with many a broken spar and tatter'd sail.)
“Right Place - Right Time” “Wrong Place – Wrong Time”
We all end up there
We believe it’s the right place
We believe it’s the right time
Why do we want it to be the right place?
Why is it always the wrong place?
Why is it always the wrong time?
“Right Place - Right Time” “Wrong Place – Wrong Time”
We are happy when we are in the right place at the right time
Yet when we are in the wrong place at the wrong time
We are lost
We feel like noting
We are sad
We cry
Our feelings getting hurt
Why can’t we be in the right place all the time?
Why can we be in the right time?
“Right Place - Right Time” “Wrong Place – Wrong Time”
Some of your classes might be boring,
But don’t you dare get caught snoring.
Get your homework done,
Then go out and have some fun.
Go out and party all night long,
But don’t forget your report on ping-pong.
There is only one solution to it all,
Get your homework done in study hall.
So when it’s time for school
Be cool.
Don’t be a fool.
Cold and heat!
Winter and Summer;
The muse of life,
With the ways of nature! !
Seed time and harvest time.
Life is shifting time to time
As from birth to death we do
We work whole day and take rest
Birds search nest at evening.
Who stays on rent or leaves old
Home is searched to establish
Some feel nice in villages near
Some search town and some cities.
Shifting is associated with habit
In migration we see necessity sure
Life changes and dazzles in search
Some do not attach mind in world.
Shifting of mind from the dark
This proceeds towards pure light
To revive faith and establish
We look forward God's wisdom sure.
Against that time, if ever that time come,
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
Called to that audit by advised respects;
Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass,
And scarcely greet me with that sun, thine eye,
When love, converted from the thing it was,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity—
Against that time do I ensconce me here
Within the knowledge of mine own desart,
And this my hand, against myself uprear,
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part.
To leave poor me thou hast the strength of laws,
Since why to love I can allege no cause.
How soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth,
Stoln on his wing my three and twentieth year!
My hasting days fly on wtih full career,
But my late spring no bud or blossom shew'th.
Perhaps my semblance might deceive the truth,
That I to manhood am arrived so near,
And inward ripeness doth much less appear,
That some more timely-happy spirits endu'th.
Yet be it less or more, or soon or slow,
It shall be still in strictest measure even
To that same lot, however mean or high,
Toward which Time leads me, and the will of Heaven;
All is, if I have grace to use it so,
As ever in my great Taskmaster's eye.
Devouring Time, blunt thou the lion's paws,
And make the earth devour her own sweet brood;
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
And burn the long-liv'd Phoenix in her blood;
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleets,
And do whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed Time,
To the wide world and all her fading sweets;
But I forbid thee one more heinous crime:
O, carve not with the hours my love's fair brow,
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen!
Him in thy course untainted do allow
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
Yet do thy worst, old Time! Despite thy wrong
My love shall in my verse ever live young.
Time, cruel Time, come and subdue that brow
Which conquers all but thee, and thee, too, stays
As if she were exempt from scythe or bow,
From love or years unsubject to decays.
Or art thou grown in league with those fair eyes
That they may help thee to consume our days?
Or dost thou spare her for her cruelties,
Being merciless like thee that no man weighs?
And yet thou seest thy power she disobeys,
Cares not for thee, but lets thee waste in vain,
And prodigal of hours and years betrays
Beauty and youth t'opinion and disdain.
Yet spare her, Time, let her exempted be,
She may become more kind to thee or me.
The first time that the sun rose on thine oath
To love me, I looked forward to the moon
To slacken all those bonds which seemed too soon
And quickly tied to make a lasting troth.
Quick-loving hearts, I thought, may quickly loathe;
And, looking on myself, I seemed not one
For such man's love!--more like an out-of-tune
Worn viol, a good singer would be wroth
To spoil his song with, and which, snatched in haste,
Is laid down at the first ill-sounding note.
I did not wrong myself so, but I placed
A wrong on thee. For perfect strains may float
'Neath master-hands, from instruments defaced,--
And great souls, at one stroke, may do and doat.
First time he kissed me, he but only kissed
The finger of this hand wherewith I write;
And ever since, it grew more clean and white,
Slow to world-greetings, quick with its "Oh, list,"
When the angels speak. A ring of amethyst
I could not wear here, plainer to my sight,
Than that first kiss. The second passed in height
The first, and sought the forehead, and half missed,
Half falling on the hair. O beyond meed!
That was the chrism of love, which love's own crown,
With sanctifying sweetness, did precede.
The third upon my lips was folded down
In perfect, purple state; since when, indeed,
I have been proud and said, "My love, my own."
Debate and rate
With added weight
While patterns picked
Associate
A crime of rhyme
Debating time
The pros and cons
In sad sublime
The base of space
With time will race
Future coming
It's pacing grace
Fulfilled from where
In Space or air
Separate lives
Two fabrics fare?
I feel the Spring far off, far off,
The faint far scent of bud and leaf--
Oh how can Spring take heart to come
To a world in grief,
Deep grief?
The sun turns north, the days grow long,
Later the evening star grows bright--
How can the daylight linger on
For men to fight,
Still fight?
The grass is waking in the ground,
Soon it will rise and blow in waves--
How can it have the heart to sway
Over the graves,
New graves?
Under the boughs where lovers walked
The apple-blooms will shed their breath--
But what of all the lovers now
Parted by death,
Gray Death?
THOUGH leaves are many, the root is one;
Through all the lying days of my youth
I swayed my leaves and flowers in the sun;
Now I may wither into the truth.
Time or fate may separate friends, lovers,
But friendship or love that's true will ever
Thenceforth continue to live forever,
True love conquers the odd with its power.
As time passes by, things change with the time,
Every moment, hour, day, month, and year,
All things have their turn to change with the time,
Life, time, and events change with the years.
Everyone, everything, have a time and day,
A time to change, end, begin a new day,
Change is life, the course of life everyday,
All things change, and we change with them all days.
Only the Eternal one is constant,
All things in the universe, inconstant,
But despite it all, love is important,
The world may change, but true love is constant.
High above, sitting on his ledge, to himself he is to think.  I am neither nor am I heard.  I am as ghost.  I try and I try, oh how hard I do try, but I must, I mustn’t cry, but now instead his hazel eyes grow moist.  A heavy line and scarred face is stained by years.
Such a said faith for this one of light, personally known for the slayings of both the serpent and a dragon, should have never become one of the fallen.
Children need never suffer, but pain is so much a part of this child’s life.  Pain, his unwanted friend, in a sense his religion, and in death he hopes they will part.
A body that has long been broken, as he is to lay, his body he has now split open.  The blade is then tossed away as an unwanted token.  Blood flows now, as the darkest of wines from a child who did nothing but shine.
Sleep he must, ashes to ashes.  Drifting off he prays to his Gods and Angels to take him to a special time and place he once knew of long ago.  Dusk to dusk, in this sleep he must trust.
My a rose hear of his name, the fruit has fallen from the vine, for it has been said, that of which has been lost may never be saved!
Eyes closed, in his sleep, he is to speak a name, and that name is Payne.  True the shadow would, cut off the mist one has come.  The figure approaching is that of a female, a beautiful female in fact.  A sprit of an angel has arrived, the angel known as Payne, and she has come to get by her loved one’s side.  For here was a very special love between these two children.  Upon her passing from the physical to the next, from the next she had become his guardian angel.
Kneeling besides her special one, speaking softly.  No, no what have you done, not like this, not like this.  Then screaming out, calling to the Elder known as Further, Further why have you let this happen, why have you all let this happen why.  You will answer me Further, why let this happen.
Sands of time slips from hands of has one who sleeps.  Now she weeps her tears.  She sweeps away from her cheeks.
Payne, a voice from the shadows is to say.  It is not yet too late to save, Payne you can save your special one from the grave.
The love you feel for him all know, stop the blood flow, mend his wounded wings, tie with a bow, but then you must not go, this time yourself you must show, to him this time yourself you must show.
My child Payne, now you must please listen to me.  The children were never meant to suffer, but some do.  You know of this first hand as you yourself are one of the light.  The child besides you, this one of light was always meant to fight, this one, to the evil ones is to install fright, for the children of the light have always kept what is true and right.  So my angel Payne, mend his broken wings so again he may take flight.  I go now Payne.
Wait further wait she is to say, but nothing, not another word from Further is to be heard.
Payne is to hold the sleeping one gently in her delicate arms, spoken are words just so soft.
Love, it is I Payne, your wounds with a bow I did tie, please I beg of you, on me you mustn’t die.  Love of mine, you mustn’t go to the pine, instead brighter than the sun, moon and stars you may shine.
Never surrender, surrender not to the pretender.  Great bird of prey, my love falcon, your wings I did cure, together again we shall sore, falcon a fallen one you are no more.
I have a kiss for you, for my love has always been true.  Now my beauty you will take, my breath you take.  Falcon I need you to awake.  Falcon I beg of you awake, please awake!
In the shadows, elder Further is to quietly whisper to himself.  It is this one, who possess the light, this child in his darkest of hours will yield the most destructive of powers and this he does for all of ours!
By: Anthony Rubino
Zeus,
Brazen-thunder-hurler,
Cloud-whirler, son-of-Kronos,
Send vengeance on these Oreads
Who strew
White frozen flecks of mist and cloud
Over the brown trees and the tufted grass
Of the meadows, where the stream
Runs black through shining banks
Of bluish white.
Zeus,
Are the halls of heaven broken up
That you flake down upon me
Feather-strips of marble?
Dis and Styx!
When I stamp my hoof
The frozen-cloud-specks jam into the cleft
So that I reel upon two slippery points ...
Fool, to stand here cursing
When I might be running!
Night closed my windows and
The sky became a crystal house
The crystal windows glowed
The moon
shown through them
through the whole house of crystal
A single star beamed down
its crystal cable
and drew a plough through the earth
unearthing bodies clasped together
couples embracing
around the earth
They clung together everywhere
emitting small cries
that did not reach the stars
The crystal earth turned
and the bodies with it
And the sky did not turn
nor the stars with it
The stars remained fixed
each with its crystal cable
beamed to earth
each attached to the immense plough
furrowing our lives
Praise, they that will, times past: I joy to see
Myself now live; this age best pleaseth me!
The Spring-time, O the Spring-time!
Who does not know it well?
When the little birds begin to build,
And the buds begin to swell.
When the sun with the clouds plays hide-and-seek,
And the lambs are bucking and bleating,
And the colour mounts to the maiden's cheek,
And the cuckoo scatters greeting;
In the Spring-time, joyous Spring-time!
The Summer, O the Summer!
Who does not know it well?
When the ringdoves coo the long day through,
And the bee refills his cell.
When the swish of the mower is heard at morn,
And we all in the woods go roaming,
And waiting is over, and love is born,
And shy lips meet in the gloaming;
In the Summer, ripening Summer!
The Autumn, O the Autumn!
Who does not know it well?
When the leaf turns brown, and the mast drops down,
And the chestnut splits its shell.
When we muse o'er the days that have gone before,
And the days that will follow after,
When the grain lies deep on the winnowing-floor,
And the plump gourd hangs from the rafter;
In the Autumn, thoughtful Autumn!
The Winter, O the Winter!
Who does not know it well?
When, day after day, the fields stretch gray,
And the peewit wails on the fell.
When we close up the crannies and shut out the cold,
And the wind sounds hoarse and hollow,
And our dead loves sleep in the churchyard mould,
And we feel that we soon shall follow;
In the Winter, mournful Winter!
The time I like best is 6am
when the snow is 6 inches deep
which I'm yet to discover
'cause I'm under the covers
fast, fast asleep.
The time I've lost in wooing,
In watching and pursuing
The light that lies
In woman's eyes,
Has been my heart's undoing.
Tho' Wisdom oft has sought me,
I scorn'd the lore she brought me,
My only books
Were women's looks,
And folly's all they taught me.
Her smile when Beauty granted,
I hung with gaze enchanted,
Like him the Sprite
Whom maids by night
Oft meet in glen that's haunted.
Like him, too, Beauty won me;
But when the spell was on me,
If once their ray
Was turn'd away,
O! winds could not outrun me.
And are those follies going?
And is my proud heart growing
Too cold or wise
For brillant eyes
Again to set it glowing?
No -- vain, alas! th' endeavour
From bonds so sweet to sever: --
Poor Wisdom's chance
Against a glance
Is now as weak as ever.
The time when first I fell in love,
Which now I must lament;
The year wherein I lost such time
To compass my content.
The day wherein I saw too late
The follies of a lover;
The hour wherein I found such loss
As care cannot recover.
And last, the minute of mishap,
Which makes me thus to plain
The doleful fruits of lover's suits,
Which labour lose in vain:
Doth make me solemnly protest,
As I with pain do prove,
There is no time, year, day, nor hour,
Nor minute, good to love.
They say that 'time assuages,'--
Time never did assuage;
An actual suffering strengthens,
As sinews do, with age.
Time is a test of trouble,
But not a remedy.
If such it prove, it prove too
There was no malady.
Time against Time
My life is somewhere lost
in the seed of time,
The womb of past,
In the womb of certain summer,
In the call of a certain Cuckoo,
It was summer and I was alone,
With my dreamy eyes I was lost,
The pain was just the baby,
I was alone and outside,
My future was like waves,
And I lost all my dreams,
Without dream past remains the past,
Adamant and never to leave me,
The petals without blossoming mangled,
The flower remains unmanifest,
Without blossoming I am with pain,
Maturing day by day with no root,
My pain is my failure, my death,
I died years ago without hope,
The hope of becoming was nipped,
Without the hope of living I live,
I live where no sign of life is left,
Only vague memory of life,
Nor life as such but the dream.
The song is there in nature,
The Cuckoo is still singing,
The Green Field is still harvesting,
The peace of the land is still singing,
The Joy of life is still flowing,
The projected dream about to bloom,
Is still a projection, the screen of my mind,
My being without hope is hoping
against my life,
The childhood is a fresh delight,
The dream of childhood is lost in hopes,
A bundle of sorrow is under the self,
Attaining not the feast of life with time,
Time is gone with the warmth of mind,
In the near past all is destroyed,
Decayed with the pain maturing day by day,
Only pain of not touching life,
It was very close to dive in,
Life is a vain waiting and hoping naught,
All hope is just dust of time,
Burnt with ceasing fire.
The road to life is blocked,
Only moving with faint delight,
Where there is no way to smile,
With the Sun rise I rise and with
setting I set,
With the night I remain awake,
Still still the spirit is missing,
The joy of living is no more joy,
Only wasting time with wrong time,
As an outsider I witness everything,
To be nothing is only rays of hope,
The indifference of the vast Sky,
The stars and the dark night are
My indifferent being, my fruitless self,
Thought upon thought and no Joy,
Past is the only time heavy on soul,
The seed unborn is hovering with the
songs of birds,
The pine for not responding to time,
The pain of not touching the spirit,
Only vague memory to die with Mind.
********************
@Prabir Gayen - 18/04/2019 - 11: 25 AM.
Time and time again
we rise and fall
like the tides
beyond our all
time and time again
we take never to give
like the seasons
our wants renew
time and time again
we live to die
like the rainbow
our whole life a lie
Time and time again,
lives in every plane.
Flying and retiring,
it seems to gain. When
we have time it's inclined
to disappear then reappear,
as time has its own time.
Time and time and time
again
i've sought a perfect rhyme
time and time and time
again
it just comes to me
when
those times and times and times and times
i've searched for that one
word
i think that writing poetry is something quite
absurd
you balance on the tightrope and then sometimes
lose
your
nerve.........
jail time, heroin time,
back alley shuffle time,
standing in the soup line time....
sleeping in old cars time,
day work, selling blood time,
lost your job, no work time,
lost your house, nowhere time....
get your school in prison time,
radical free thought time,
fighting against the man time...
bum a smoke, a cup of coffee time.
woman done gone, aint coming back time.
food stamps and unemployment time...
kick off your damn chains time.
forgive, and forgiven time...
stand up and fight time,
hands joining hands time...
time, baby... just time!
Each day I wait,
Each time I cry,
Each moment I fall,
Each second I try,
It matters not
Because you don't care.
Time by Time
Bide your time
There is no time to hold the time
Just pay the dime and drink the wine
That's all the fine...
Go out a ride, nothing to hide
Forget behind and dance the jive
It will be fine...
Go build a kite and make it fly
Just live the life by rest and lie
Relax the mind, exact the mine
Work on the five, solve it to nine
Grow a pine, love it so kind
...
Naked sky, the moon, the tide
See their pride, just don't cry
The sun, the shine, the crazy vine
Look them the while, you're not to shy
I say and try: to wipe the dark and paint it white
It was my shame, and now it is my boast,
That I have loved you rather more than most.
The seasons always come around;
For time cannot be interrupted
A frigid winter cold and frosty
Gives way to a fleeting spring
Where new life is found.
Time is a never ending race,
The hours, days and weeks pass,
Sometimes unnoticed in our busy lives
Then the long eternity comes with a kiss
When our time gives up its final pace.
Time is something  we have to give
To those whom we love, it can't be rushed
It is a soothing balm to heal and calm
When all of life becomes too much
And tender hearts again learn to live.
Time is like the vast vacuum of space,
It is endless. Time is forgiving if not rushed
And we have to catch those special
Moments in time as it cannot be reversed
And guard them with such sweet grace.
Times gives life meaning and sustenance, so we're all
somewhat on common ground, so life doesn't confound.
Time doesn't stay the same, nor does the world.
Time goes slow and sometimes fast, and with hope, we shall last.
Time can be lost, and it can cost.
Time can be harnessed, and it can slip through the hand like granules of sand.
Time is a friend or foe, this I know.
Time is a second, a minute, or an hour, it may devour.
Time controls and consoles.
Time, at times, is the aggressor and the lesser, a comforter.
Time heals and steals. Time brings hope and sometimes despair.
Time can repair, and it can be unfair.
Time is eternity, together, with Christ,
the King of Kings, we shall be.
Time flows
Like the perennial river
Time rides the crest
Of a wave in the sea
Time's space
Its fourth dimension
Time's elastic
Keeps on bouncing
Time's a sponge
Absorbs all spills
Time sleeps
Time wakes up
Time walks
Time runs
Time races
Time stands still
Time flies fast
Time has past
Time has future
Time never stays in the present
Time creeps
Time ticks
Time tricks
Sometimes good
Sometimes bad
Time's night
Time's day
Time's dark
Time's bright
Time's heavy
Time's light
Time's easy
Time's hard
Time blinks like eye
Time beats like heart
Time makes
Yoktosecond large
Time turns
Exasecond too small
Time lets one fall
Time makes one rise
Time's magic
Time brings one to life
From nowhere
Time makes one vanish
In an instant
Time's all
That we know
Time's everything else
That we don't.
Like the ghost of a dear friend dead
Is Time long past.
A tone which is now forever fled,
A hope which is now forever past,
A love so sweet it could not last,
Was Time long past.
There were sweet dreams in the night
Of Time long past:
And, was it sadness or delight,
Each day a shadow onward cast
Which made us wish it yet might last--
That Time long past.
There is regret, almost remorse,
For Time long past.
'Tis like a child's belovèd corse
A father watches, till at last
Beauty is like remembrance, cast
From Time long past.
You teach me the art of life,
to endure the sudden strife.
Time, time, I love you very much.
I can't grow without your touch.
It was not in the Winter
Our loving lot was cast;
It was the time of roses—
We pluck'd them as we pass'd!
That churlish season never frown'd
On early lovers yet:
O no—the world was newly crown'd
With flowers when first we met!
'Twas twilight, and I bade you go,
But still you held me fast;
It was the time of roses—
We pluck'd them as we pass'd!
Unfathomable Sea! whose waves are years,
Ocean of Time, whose waters of deep woe
Are brackish with the salt of human tears!
Thou shoreless flood, which in thy ebb and flow
Claspest the limits of mortality,
And sick of prey, yet howling on for more,
Vomitest thy wrecks on its inhospitable shore;
Treacherous in calm, and terrible in storm,
Who shall put forth on thee,
Unfathomable Sea?
On the wide level of a mountain's head,
(I knew not where, but 'twas some faery place)
Their pinions, ostrich-like, for sails out-spread,
Two lovely children run an endless race,
A sister and a brother !
This far outstripp'd the other ;
Yet ever runs she with reverted face,
And looks and listens for the boy behind :
[Image] For he, alas ! is blind !
O'er rough and smooth with even step he passed,
And knows not whether he be first or last.
My mirror tries to convince me that I’m old.
Yet I have a fresh face I’m told.
So these furrows in this body I behold, as
I recognize skin-deep beauty does not rebirth.
Still, I remember things way back yonder:
Sculptured summer grass,
Children ringing around roses
With Pockets filled with poses,
Barren tree leaves
Floating in the breeze...woman!
waste no time on younger years
For the past archives still.
I’ll never be older than the goddess of art.
My lover, you'll never  be older than thou art.
Let the earlier years delight in the older ones
For to understand the old-
The new must been known and told.
February 2,2008
Not made of matter
Always present without figure..
Always mime
What it is?
Time
Time beyond time...
I have floated on the water
of my life with time.
I enjoyed every beat
to know that it's life.
Now, I float with a
consciousness,
it's life
which makes us float.
Time is the flow
which stops at the door
of our death, time is the
flow which runs until
we cease leaving life.
Time is on my side, yes, it is.
Time is on my side, yes, it is.
Now you were saying that you want to be free
but you'll come runnin' back, you'll come runnin' back,
you'll come runnin' back to me
The Rolling Stones
Does anybody really know what time it is
I don't
Does anybody really care
care
If so I can't imagine why
about time
We've all got time enough to die
Oh no, no
Chicago Transit Authority
If I could make days last forever
If words could make wishes come true
I'd save every day like a treasure and then
Again, I would spend them with you
Jim Croce
Like sands through the hourglass... so are the Days of Our Lives.
Dr. Thomas 'Tom' Horton Sr.
So what will become of the 4th dimension?
The Saudis have their intention to make time based on Mecca time that is certain.
True, the mathematics that we use in the west was from numbers that were taken from the Middle-East,
And the dominance of  'time' is more than a physicist's dream feast,
The battle is underway,
For centuries, an astronomy observatory in Greenwich, London - the namesake of Greenwich Mean Time - has been the reference point for lines of longitude, ships' navigation on the world's seas and the time zones used today.
Move over Big Ben, a clock atop a tall, tall, tall building located in Mecca will be beginning to chime.
But Saudi Arabia wants to change that. It's building what it calls the largest clock in the world, atop the second-largest skyscraper in the world, in the Islamic holy city of Mecca - in hopes of replacing GMT with 'Mecca Time.'
The Saudis intend to have Greenwich Mean Time changed to Mecca Mean Time.
So what will become of the atomic cesium clock?
What will become of the different time zones?
What day does daytime begin?
Does anybody care?
Einstein's Theory of Relativity comes into play here,
From my perspective.
Time is on no one side,
Time is from the time we are born to the time we die,
For those who believe infinity, infinity has no time,
No seconds, minutes, hours, day, weeks, months or years, decades, or millennium,
And may I spend eternity with my soul mate, my wife, Judy.
8-21-10
http: //www.aolnews.com/world/article/saudis-want-mecca -time-to-replace-gmt/19588949? icid=main|classic|dl8|link4|http%3A%2F%2Fwww.aoln ews.com%2Fworld%2Farticle%2Fsaudis-want-mecca-tim e-to-replace-gmt%2F19588949
Time  time  time
Make time, give time, take time out
Win time, cost time, the time of your life
Spend time, sell time, the good times and the bad
Kill time, zero time, all the time in the world
Time watch, time travel, time to begin
Time table, time square, can I fit you in
Time frame, time to go, time that you grew up
But tell me...
How do you feel?
Time, time, time, time,
Sometimes I don't know how to make use of it
Time, time, time, time,
Sometimes I am worn out
Without energy
Time time time time
You flow in your tides
And rises to every prime
That through the ages guides
Oh come here in your chance
And bring each us through
Like tint leaves in trance
Each one for me and you
Time time the hour is still
With dreams to pass by
And every ones fulfill
Until they fade and fly
Oh rush not these senses
That makes us their joy
When hours flow and dances
As time they destroy
Time you always are new
Though old you sometime seems
When you are going though
In reality and dreams
And wander to the ways
That comes to each of us
Like night and waking days
That sometimes are in rush
*(Written now, while watching a Peter Pan movie; -)
A birdie with a yellow bill
Hopped upon my window sill,
Cocked his shining eye and said:
"Ain't you 'shamed, you sleepy-head!"
Time has no conclusion
it will never terminate
Time waits for nobody
seems we are always late
In our dimension
of eternity
Time is our future
and its Infinity
back to present day
the hours transcend
the seconds hop by
Time is our friend
So as time ticks by
and the young become
Old, pull up your sock's
And wind your clock's
A solid rock may
Look stationary
Deep inside its atoms
Electrons move.
Things change
From time to time.
The universe appears
Still to the eye
Planets and stars
Keep on moving.
Things change
From time to time.
What I think now
Is not the same
As fixed thoughts
Of yesterday.
Things change
From time to time.
Objects move
Experience teaches
Knowledge provides
New points of view.
Things change
From time to time.
While fates permit us, let's be merry;
Pass all we must the fatal ferry;
And this our life, too, whirls away,
With the rotation of the day.
It doesn’t matter what’s the cause,
What wrong they say we’re righting,
A curse for treaties, bonds and laws,
When we’re to do the fighting!
And since we lads are proud and true,
What else remains to do?
Lucasta, when to France your man
Returns his fourth time, hating war,
Yet laughs as calmly as he can
And flings an oath, but says no more,
That is not courage, that’s not fear—
Lucasta he’s a Fusilier,
And his pride sends him here.
Let statesmen bluster, bark and bray,
And so decide who started
This bloody war, and who’s to pay,
But he must be stout-hearted,
Must sit and stake with quiet breath,
Playing at cards with Death.
Don’t plume yourself he fights for you;
It is no courage, love, or hate,
But let us do the things we do;
It’s pride that makes the heart be great;
It is not anger, no, nor fear—
Lucasta he’s a Fusilier,
And his pride keeps him here.
Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days!
Come near me, while I sing the ancient ways:
Cuchulain battling with the bitter tide;
The Druid, grey, wood-nurtured, quiet-eyed,
Who cast round Fergus dreams, and ruin untold;
And thine own sadness, where of stars, grown old
In dancing silver-sandalled on the sea,
Sing in their high and lonely melody.
Come near, that no more blinded hy man's fate,
I find under the boughs of love and hate,
In all poor foolish things that live a day,
Eternal beauty wandering on her way.
Come near, come near, come near -- Ah, leave me still
A little space for the rose-breath to fill!
Lest I no more bear common things that crave;
The weak worm hiding down in its small cave,
The field-mouse running by me in the grass,
And heavy mortal hopes that toil and pass;
But seek alone to hear the strange things said
By God to the bright hearts of those long dead,
And learn to chaunt a tongue men do not know.
Come near; I would, before my time to go,
Sing of old Eire and the ancient ways:
Red Rose, proud Rose, sad Rose of all my days.
Gather ye rose-buds while ye may:
Old Time is still a-flying;
And this same flower that smiles to-day,
To-morrow will be dying.
The glorious lamp of heaven, the Sun,
The higher he's a-getting,
The sooner will his race be run,
And nearer he's to setting.
That age is best, which is the first,
When youth and blood are warmer;
But being spent, the worse, and worst
Times, still succeed the former.
- Then be not coy, but use your time,
And while ye may, go marry;
For having lost but once your prime,
You may for ever tarry.
To think of time--of all that retrospection!
To think of to-day, and the ages continued henceforward!
Have you guess'd you yourself would not continue?
Have you dreaded these earth-beetles?
Have you fear'd the future would be nothing to you?
Is to-day nothing? Is the beginningless past nothing?
If the future is nothing, they are just as surely nothing.
To think that the sun rose in the east! that men and women were
flexible, real, alive! that everything was alive!
To think that you and I did not see, feel, think, nor bear our part!
To think that we are now here, and bear our part!                  10
Not a day passes--not a minute or second, without an accouchement!
Not a day passes--not a minute or second, without a corpse!
The dull nights go over, and the dull days also,
The soreness of lying so much in bed goes over,
The physician, after long putting off, gives the silent and terrible
look for an answer,
The children come hurried and weeping, and the brothers and sisters
are sent for,
Medicines stand unused on the shelf--(the camphor-smell has long
pervaded the rooms,)
The faithful hand of the living does not desert the hand of the
dying,
The twitching lips press lightly on the forehead of the dying,
The breath ceases, and the pulse of the heart ceases,              20
The corpse stretches on the bed, and the living look upon it,
It is palpable as the living are palpable.
The living look upon the corpse with their eye-sight,
But without eye-sight lingers a different living, and looks curiously
on the corpse.
To think the thought of Death, merged in the thought of materials!
To think that the rivers will flow, and the snow fall, and fruits
ripen, and act upon others as upon us now--yet not act upon us!
To think of all these wonders of city and country, and others taking
great interest in them--and we taking no interest in them!
To think how eager we are in building our houses!
To think others shall be just as eager, and we quite indifferent!
(I see one building the house that serves him a few years, or seventy
or eighty years at most,                                     30
I see one building the house that serves him longer than that.)
Slow-moving and black lines creep over the whole earth--they never
cease--they are the burial lines,
He that was President was buried, and he that is now President shall
surely be buried.
A reminiscence of the vulgar fate,
A frequent sample of the life and death of workmen,
Each after his kind:
Cold dash of waves at the ferry-wharf--posh and ice in the river,
half-frozen mud in the streets, a gray, discouraged sky
overhead, the short, last daylight of Twelfth-month,
A hearse and stages--other vehicles give place--the funeral of an old
Broadway stage-driver, the cortege mostly drivers.
Steady the trot to the cemetery, duly rattles the death-bell, the
gate is pass'd, the new-dug grave is halted at, the living
alight, the hearse uncloses,
The coffin is pass'd out, lower'd and settled, the whip is laid on
the coffin, the earth is swiftly shovel'd in,                40
The mound above is flatted with the spades--silence,
A minute--no one moves or speaks--it is done,
He is decently put away--is there anything more?
He was a good fellow, free-mouth'd, quick-temper'd, not bad-looking,
able to take his own part, witty, sensitive to a slight, ready
with life or death for a friend, fond of women, gambled, ate
hearty, drank hearty, had known what it was to be flush, grew
low-spirited toward the last, sicken'd, was help'd by a
contribution, died, aged forty-one years--and that was his
funeral.
Thumb extended, finger uplifted, apron, cape, gloves, strap, wet-
weather clothes, whip carefully chosen, boss, spotter, starter,
hostler, somebody loafing on you, you loafing on somebody,
headway, man before and man behind, good day's work, bad day's
work, pet stock, mean stock, first out, last out, turning-in at
night;
To think that these are so much and so nigh to other drivers--and he
there takes no interest in them!
The markets, the government, the working-man's wages--to think what
account they are through our nights and days!
To think that other working-men will make just as great account of
them--yet we make little or no account!
The vulgar and the refined--what you call sin, and what you call
goodness--to think how wide a difference!
To think the difference will still continue to others, yet we lie
beyond the difference.                                       50
To think how much pleasure there is!
Have you pleasure from looking at the sky? have you pleasure from
poems?
Do you enjoy yourself in the city? or engaged in business? or
planning a nomination and election? or with your wife and
family?
Or with your mother and sisters? or in womanly housework? or the
beautiful maternal cares?
--These also flow onward to others--you and I flow onward,
But in due time, you and I shall take less interest in them.
Your farm, profits, crops,--to think how engross'd you are!
To think there will still be farms, profits, crops--yet for you, of
what avail?
What will be, will be well--for what is, is well,
To take interest is well, and not to take interest shall be well.  60
The sky continues beautiful,
The pleasure of men with women shall never be sated, nor the pleasure
of women with men, nor the pleasure from poems,
The domestic joys, the daily housework or business, the building of
houses--these are not phantasms--they have weight, form,
location;
Farms, profits, crops, markets, wages, government, are none of them
phantasms,
The difference between sin and goodness is no delusion,
The earth is not an echo--man and his life, and all the things of his
life, are well-consider'd.
You are not thrown to the winds--you gather certainly and safely
around yourself;
Yourself! Yourself! Yourself, forever and ever!
It is not to diffuse you that you were born of your mother and
father--it is to identify you;
It is not that you should be undecided, but that you should be
decided;                                                     70
Something long preparing and formless is arrived and form'd in you,
You are henceforth secure, whatever comes or goes.
The threads that were spun are gather'd, the weft crosses the warp,
the pattern is systematic.
The preparations have every one been justified,
The orchestra have sufficiently tuned their instruments--the baton
has given the signal.
The guest that was coming--he waited long, for reasons--he is now
housed,
He is one of those who are beautiful and happy--he is one of those
that to look upon and be with is enough.
The law of the past cannot be eluded,
The law of the present and future cannot be eluded,
The law of the living cannot be eluded--it is eternal,             80
The law of promotion and transformation cannot be eluded,
The law of heroes and good-doers cannot be eluded,
The law of drunkards, informers, mean persons--not one iota thereof
can be eluded.
Slow moving and black lines go ceaselessly over the earth,
Northerner goes carried, and Southerner goes carried, and they on the
Atlantic side, and they on the Pacific, and they between, and
all through the Mississippi country, and all over the earth.
The great masters and kosmos are well as they go--the heroes and
good-doers are well,
The known leaders and inventors, and the rich owners and pious and
distinguish'd, may be well,
But there is more account than that--there is strict account of all.
The interminable hordes of the ignorant and wicked are not nothing,
The barbarians of Africa and Asia are not nothing,                 90
The common people of Europe are not nothing--the American aborigines
are not nothing,
The infected in the immigrant hospital are not nothing--the murderer
or mean person is not nothing,
The perpetual successions of shallow people are not nothing as they
go,
The lowest prostitute is not nothing--the mocker of religion is not
nothing as he goes.
Of and in all these things,
I have dream'd that we are not to be changed so much, nor the law of
us changed,
I have dream'd that heroes and good-doers shall be under the present
and past law,
And that murderers, drunkards, liars, shall be under the present and
past law,
For I have dream'd that the law they are under now is enough.
If otherwise, all came but to ashes of dung,                      100
If maggots and rats ended us, then Alarum! for we are betray'd!
Then indeed suspicion of death.
Do you suspect death? If I were to suspect death, I should die now,
Do you think I could walk pleasantly and well-suited toward
annihilation?
Pleasantly and well-suited I walk,
Whither I walk I cannot define, but I know it is good,
The whole universe indicates that it is good,
The past and the present indicate that it is good.
How beautiful and perfect are the animals!
How perfect the earth, and the minutest thing upon it!            110
What is called good is perfect, and what is called bad is just as
perfect,
The vegetables and minerals are all perfect, and the imponderable
fluids are perfect;
Slowly and surely they have pass'd on to this, and slowly and surely
they yet pass on.
I swear I think now that everything without exception has an eternal Soul!
The trees have, rooted in the ground! the weeds of the sea have! the
animals!
I swear I think there is nothing but immortality!
That the exquisite scheme is for it, and the nebulous float is for
it, and the cohering is for it;
And all preparation is for it! and identity is for it! and life and
materials are altogether for it!
Tributes must be paid from time to time;
Half the yield should be given to me.
The whole of pepper yield should be handed over
Coconut, arecanut, mango, jackfruit:
All the trees should be confiscated.
There will be no place in my country
For the pomp of local barons.
Double the seed crop should be given
To me by every houseowner.
The Tamil Brahmins (Pattars) staying here
Should also give one fourth to me.
The Nayars who stay at home
Should take their bows and spears
And stay at the residence of Ravana
And do whatever chores are assigned.
Nayars who drink toddy
Would be beaten up, beware!
'T was just this time last year I died.
I know I heard the corn,
When I was carried by the farms,--
It had the tassels on.
I thought how yellow it would look
When Richard went to mill;
And then I wanted to get out,
But something held my will.
I thought just how red apples wedged
The stubble's joints between;
And carts went stooping round the fields
To take the pumpkins in.
I wondered which would miss me least,
And when Thanksgiving came,
If father'd multiply the plates
To make an even sum.
And if my stocking hung too high,
Would it blur the Christmas glee,
That not a Santa Claus could reach
The altitude of me?
But this sort grieved myself, and so
I thought how it would be
When just this time, some perfect year,
Themselves should come to me.
Out of the mud two strangers came
And caught me splitting wood in the yard,
And one of them put me off my aim
By hailing cheerily "Hit them hard!"
I knew pretty well why he had dropped behind
And let the other go on a way.
I knew pretty well what he had in mind:
He wanted to take my job for pay.
Good blocks of oak it was I split,
As large around as the chopping block;
And every piece I squarely hit
Fell splinterless as a cloven rock.
The blows that a life of self-control
Spares to strike for the common good,
That day, giving a loose my soul,
I spent on the unimportant wood.
The sun was warm but the wind was chill.
You know how it is with an April day
When the sun is out and the wind is still,
You're one month on in the middle of May.
But if you so much as dare to speak,
A cloud comes over the sunlit arch,
A wind comes off a frozen peak,
And you're two months back in the middle of March.
A bluebird comes tenderly up to alight
And turns to the wind to unruffle a plume,
His song so pitched as not to excite
A single flower as yet to bloom.
It is snowing a flake; and he half knew
Winter was only playing possum.
Except in color he isn't blue,
But he wouldn't advise a thing to blossom.
The water for which we may have to look
In summertime with a witching wand,
In every wheelrut's now a brook,
In every print of a hoof a pond.
Be glad of water, but don't forget
The lurking frost in the earth beneath
That will steal forth after the sun is set
And show on the water its crystal teeth.
The time when most I loved my task
The two must make me love it more
By coming with what they came to ask.
You'd think I never had felt before
The weight of an ax-head poised aloft,
The grip of earth on outspread feet,
The life of muscles rocking soft
And smooth and moist in vernal heat.
Out of the wood two hulking tramps
(From sleeping God knows where last night,
But not long since in the lumber camps).
They thought all chopping was theirs of right.
Men of the woods and lumberjacks,
They judged me by their appropriate tool.
Except as a fellow handled an ax
They had no way of knowing a fool.
Nothing on either side was said.
They knew they had but to stay their stay
And all their logic would fill my head:
As that I had no right to play
With what was another man's work for gain.
My right might be love but theirs was need.
And where the two exist in twain
Theirs was the better right--agreed.
But yield who will to their separation,
My object in living is to unite
My avocation and my vocation
As my two eyes make one in sight.
Only where love and need are one,
And the work is play for mortal stakes,
Is the deed ever really done
For Heaven and the future's sakes.
Eternity is like unto a Ring.
Time, like to Measure, doth it self extend;
Measure commences, is a finite thing.
The Ring has no beginning, middle, end.
Time was upon
The wing, to fly away;
And I call'd on
Him but awhile to stay;
But he'd be gone,
For aught that I could say.
He held out then
A writing, as he went,
And ask'd me, when
False man would be content
To pay again
What God and Nature lent.
An hour-glass,
In which were sands but few,
As he did pass,
He shew'd,--and told me too
Mine end near was;--
And so away he flew.
WARBLE me now, for joy of Lilac-time,
Sort me, O tongue and lips, for Nature's sake, and sweet life's
sake--and death's the same as life's,
Souvenirs of earliest summer--birds' eggs, and the first berries;
Gather the welcome signs, (as children, with pebbles, or stringing
shells;)
Put in April and May--the hylas croaking in the ponds--the elastic
air,
Bees, butterflies, the sparrow with its simple notes,
Blue-bird, and darting swallow--nor forget the high-hole flashing his
golden wings,
The tranquil sunny haze, the clinging smoke, the vapor,
Spiritual, airy insects, humming on gossamer wings,
Shimmer of waters, with fish in them--the cerulean above;          10
All that is jocund and sparkling--the brooks running,
The maple woods, the crisp February days, and the sugar-making;
The robin, where he hops, bright-eyed, brown-breasted,
With musical clear call at sunrise, and again at sunset,
Or flitting among the trees of the apple-orchard, building the nest
of his mate;
The melted snow of March--the willow sending forth its yellow-green
sprouts;
--For spring-time is here! the summer is here! and what is this in it
and from it?
Thou, Soul, unloosen'd--the restlessness after I know not what;
Come! let us lag here no longer--let us be up and away!
O for another world! O if one could but fly like a bird!           20
O to escape--to sail forth, as in a ship!
To glide with thee, O Soul, o'er all, in all, as a ship o'er the
waters!
--Gathering these hints, these preludes--the blue sky, the grass, the
morning drops of dew;
(With additional songs--every spring will I now strike up additional
songs,
Nor ever again forget, these tender days, the chants of Death as well
as Life;)
The lilac-scent, the bushes, and the dark green, heart-shaped leaves,
Wood violets, the little delicate pale blossoms called innocence,
Samples and sorts not for themselves alone, but for their atmosphere,
To tally, drench'd with them, tested by them,
Cities and artificial life, and all their sights and scenes,       30
My mind henceforth, and all its meditations--my recitatives,
My land, my age, my race, for once to serve in songs,
(Sprouts, tokens ever of death indeed the same as life,)
To grace the bush I love--to sing with the birds,
A warble for joy of Lilac-time.
Was there a time when dancers with their fiddles
In children's circuses could stay their troubles?
There was a time they could cry over books,
But time has sent its maggot on their track.
Under the arc of the sky they are unsafe.
What's never known is safest in this life.
Under the skysigns they who have no arms
have cleanest hands, and, as the heartless ghost
Alone's unhurt, so the blind man sees best.
When He ordered me to pray at once,
I left the bed,
I washed my hands,
my mouth and my feet.
I walked to a nearby mosque,
and when I started praying,
I found myself in a different moment.
Alas! I could not follow His orders well in time.
How can I get what I prayed for?
Tears came in my eyes!
How helpless is the man!
But my great teacher wiped my tears.
Congratulated me,
and asked me to smile,
as He gave me that
what I prayed for,
immediately when I intended to pray for it.
My intentions were well in time.
Man is not so much helpless!
Time is something we don't understand,
It's gone with a hello and a shake of the hand.
Never enough time for those you hold dear
But always, time for sadness and tears.
Time, you can't se it at all
For it passes so quickly --- while you lean on a wall.
Who knows where time goes/
No time for the dreams you have for yourself
Nor time for reading all the books the shelf.
Not enough time to go drifting along
For one has to work eight hours long.
Who knows where time goes?
No time to laugh --- and just be alone,
No time at all for friend or foe.
Time is running out --- people all say,
Who knows where time goes --- each and every day!
Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.
Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.
Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit;
Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.
When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
Its frosty pepper up my nose.
Black are my steps on silver sod;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding cake.
just now, today
and for a moment, thus
forever,
the heaviness of devil-darkened thought,
death in some disguise yet to be called out,
threatened grey ruin to the day
which is not mine
as that same devil, named, will not be mine -
so pushed aside my dinner plate
and read a poem
and rejoined the world of now
of sunshine, families, all
the heart loves
and mind turns grey
and into devil's grey, and death and life
stepped gratitude.
Today I looked at you
and got the feeling that
maybe you still love me
and that perhaps this time
I will be the one that walks away.
Forget today my tired soul
imagine you never said those destructive words
another person no longer sees your worth
but tomorrow brings a reason to hope
Forget today my tired soul
pretend you hadn't created your own downfall
you've lost the chance to make a friend
but there's always a chance to make ammends
Forget today my tired soul
wipe the tears that fall from your eyes
Love has once again overlooked our door
but one day her sweet face will be seen again
Forget today my tired soul
don't dwell on the pain that lives within
the clouds are bleak and the sun seems so far away
but I promise you someday we'll have our moment to shine
God is
Love...
Did not
Any body..
True love to
The god? ?
Ok..
Any body
Love is
True? ?
4 today..?
Today is a good day to be happy
The sun's brightly shinning,
Birds are gaily singing,
Negativity today, is not winning.
I'n not drowning in the tide,
i'm swiming with it -
like a fish,
yet, althought painful past's not dead,
No longer do i hear,
their criticising voices in my head.
Can't forget the past -
But i can forgive,
banish their wrongs,
They're locked in the dark,
everyday's a good day is how i will live,
and mending my scared heart
Is a great place to start.
1/11/05
I saw her by the bus stop
and she glanced  my way
she gave me such a pretty smile
it took my breath away
I knew I couldn't say hello
the struggle what to do
I'd never know what you were like
a stranger passing through
Do you ever think of me
as I have thought of you
wonder what sights we'd have seen
if we had stopped to view
crazy how the little things
and chances slip away
another one, another life
another day today.
I saw a reason to smile today
when I saw a butterfly flutter its wings around my way.
I saw a reason to smile today,
when I heard the children laughing and playing
under the warm sun of May.
I saw a reason to smile today,
when I looked up and saw no clouds of gray.
But most of all,
I saw a reason to smile today,
when I saw you pass by, which completed my day.
They came from the lower levels
Deep down in the Brilliant mine;
From the wastes where the whirlwind revels,
Whirling the leaves of pine.
On the western plains, where the Darling flows,
And the dust storms wheel and shift,
The teamster loosened his yokes and bows,
And turned his team adrift.
On the western stations, far and wide,
There's many an empty pen,
For the "ringers" have cast the machines aside
And answered the call for men.
On the lucerne flats where the stream runs slow,
And the Hunter finds the sea,
The women are driving the mowers now,
With the children at their knee.
For the men have gone, as a man must go,
At the call of the rolling drums;
For the men have sworn that the Turks shall know
When the old battalion comes.
Column of companies by the right,
Steady in strong array,
With the sun on the bayonets gleaming bright,
The battalion marched away.
They battled, the old battalion,
Through the toil of the training camps,
Sweated and strove at lectures,
By the light of the stinking lamps.
Marching, shooting, and drilling;
Steady and slow and stern;
Awkward and strange, but willing
All of their job to learn.
Learning to use the rifle;
Learning to use the spade;
Deeming fatigue a trifle
During each long parade.
Till at last they welded
Into a concrete whole,
And there grew in the old battalion
A kind of battalion's soul.
Brotherhood never was like it;
Friendship is not the word;
But deep in that body of marching men
The soul of a nation stirred.
And like one man with a single thought
Cheery and confident;
Ready for all that the future brought,
The old battalion went.
Column of companies by the right,
Steady in strong array,
With the sun on the bayonets gleaming bright,
The battalion marched away.
How shall we tell of the landing
By the hills where the foe were spread,
And the track of the old battalion
Was marked by the Turkish dead?
With the dash that discipline teaches,
Though the hail of the shrapnel flew,
And the forts were raking the beaches,
And the toll of the dead men grew.
They fixed their grip on the gaunt hillside
With a pluck that has won them fame;
And the home-folks know that the dead men died
For the pride of Australia's name.
Column of companies by the right,
To the beat of the rolling drums;
With honours gained in a stirring fight
The old battalion comes!
It was a year ago today
We went our seperate ways
Strange now to think
That there could have been
A you and a me
The way we are now
Seems more natural somehow
It wasn't meant to be
But without that little fling
We would never have seen
The potential in each other
To be friends and not lovers
We saw you last a year ago today.
A harsh November wind blew wild and cold;
The city lights below were on display
And all your words and smiles were spun with gold.
Posted: Maintenance, the tram would not run.
Plenty of time we said, another day.
Balanced on the rocks, saw the setting sun
Skipped along the path and laughed, another day.
We remember the fragrance of your hair
Your kiss, and the soft warmth of your embrace.
Your kind and gentle humor, always fair;
Our last day, honored by your grace.
The earth has traveled once around the sun
And all your plans and smiles have gone away.
Our years of regret have just begun
As we live without you still, another day.
Proud Soldiers must go where they are called
And the best  are called to special gates.
We face the loss of Good and are appalled
When time is cut by whimsy of the Fates.
(November 2,  2003; Albuquerque, New Mexico)
Copyright ©2003
Today is that day
not on  the calendar,
as National Olfactory Day,
but far more exciting than that:
the day when scent, fragrance, smell,
awoke on the warm sunlit air from a winter's sleep
and out of nowhere easily spoken of
produced a whole new world.
The first shock was the hedge two doors down
which yesterday was a green hedge with white bits
but today a burst of fragrance, a Hallelujah Chorus
transcribed to be played with or on or in the nose.
The restaurant two blocks up
unleashed from its kitchen
garlic that burst out like a bunch of singing nudists into the street
cavorting shamelessly and shouting to the world
every Mediterranean memory
of romantic meals and much else
that one thought private.
Then subtle smells that made one into a cat or dog
pursuing trails not on the street map
and making beaten tracks into voyages of discovery:
the baker's became a European trip of fresh morning bread
with another hundred freeze-dried memories unloosed;
And all down the street,
other people's lunches opened their front doors
and said 'Come and join us! We're having roast beef today
with all the trimmings, and we've enough smell
to feed the five thousand! '
and a hundred gardens one thought dormant
leaned on the front gate
and exchanged the time of year with a childlike innocence
that couldn't be told to come inside this minute or else,
and presented nosegays to strangers
without asking for a contribution to a cause.
A day for bringing past happinesses out from the store cupboard
and giving them a shake and leaving them on the line
until the sunlight moves off
and the air leaves them cooler and even fresher;
and wondering whom one will be tomorrow,
if one can feel like this today.
Today is your big birthday. You're finally a ''teen''.
You'll always be my baby, I can't help how you're seen.
You've grown into such a sweetie with a crazy, loony smile.
I love that you don't give a rip about high fashion style.
You'll always be the world to me because of who you are.
I have no doubts about your life...I know you're going far.
Success is right there for you to grab and not let go.
I'll help you all a mother can, you're a big girl now....I know.
I love you precious Charity, more each and every day.
Today's a special one for you......so have a HAPPY BIRTHDAY! !
LOVE FOREVER,   MOM
i delight in
days like today
when we are alone
alone together
together alone
i will look
back later on
days like today and
remember the joy
of being loved
Dodgy Dave deserves a break today.
He's writing so fast, his fingers are whittling away.
He just finished his book
and that was all it took.
He's now in the affliction mode.
Spewing out words as he goes.
But that's only a plus for us.
because we get to read, and trust,
that it's the best quality poems in town.
They make and frown turn upside down.
So Dodgy, you deserve a break today.
Put on a tune and let your hips sway.
(Not the sway that put some in dismay)
Relax a bit...kick your feet up
But don't stay away long, we'll miss you to much: O)
If you saw the film 'Four Weddings and a Funeral'
you'd have been moved maybe to tears
by his 'Funeral Blues';
If you were a college poetry student
the day after 9/11
you might have had your poet in residence
read his 'September 1,1939'
and had your breath taken away
by its accidental appropriateness
and the last line, which he wanted to amend,
'We must love each other, or die'
Two poems he himself didn't think quite good enough..
this is posthumous fame beyond the control
of poets;
this is what poetry can leave to the world;
this is what poetry is.
Wystan Hugh Auden would have been 100 today.
Rest In Poetry.
An Easter flower cuts light into the sill
The sound of suffering is forever still.
Tears of forgiveness warm the evening chill.
I hear His whisper in a rustling leaf,
'I would have been so lonely in my grief,
Without your fragile friendship, my good thief.
You did not scorn the pity of My frame,
But saw the Jesus in Me just the same,
I call you Friend, you need no other name.
My Father's house is just a breath away.
See. one by one the windows light our way.
I think He was expecting us today.'
Beyond the drama of earth's dying skies,
Joy is too powerful for human eyes.
Forever is today in Paradise.
For my dear friend, Ralph Russell who often requested this poem to be read at Easter.
I think I've been in love with you
Since the dawn of love first bloomed
For as long as the wind has whispered words;
Conversing with the moon
I think I'll stay in love with you
For the sake of morning dew
That glimmers, gleams, and glistens bright;
Reminding me of you
I think I’ll be in love with you
Even when it's not brand new
From today, through every tomorrow
Till it's time to say adieu
God has truly blessed me today
I open the door of this house
To let the fresh air in
You are the God of my life
Who may ascend
Meet  God  I will do when he comes
Victory for my God  I will Give
Holy Holy
I truly love my God
God has truly blessed me today
Send my sin away
I will watch the sun going down
I watched when the fields were on fire
Trees burned up in flames
I know God  how great is your love
I can’t get enough of your love God
I found hope on you so I can carry on with my life
I wish you were here God
It has been sunny all day outside
And I keep on praising you today
God has truly blessed me today
I am forever here to stay
I need your touch
I will call upon your name
I will walk on and take the challenge in life
God be merciful to me
Your lovely source of true light
I will love, sing, and wonder
All I can say is thank you God
God has truly blessed me today
Rescue me when I am feeling tired
Holy spirit fall upon me
After the music fades I will sleep well
I will open my eyes
I want to see that light
I will walk in your fields
I hope to see the raindrops falling after the rain
And my life to be as happy as it can be here on earth
God I trust in you
Long live my God
Holy Holy
Our ride
Through life
Is short
At best
Choices made
Do count
Moments lived
Savored
Memories made
Golden
Embraced in
The gilded
Frames of time
Honored vestiges
Of Era's of
Yesterday
And today
That are too
Soon gone
Reflections play
Like the waters
Still but forever
Deep mirror's
Of the Soul
Hush'd be the camps today,
And soldiers let us drape our war-worn weapons,
And each with musing soul retire to celebrate,
Our dear commander's death.
No more for him life's stormy conflicts,
Nor victory, nor defeat--no more time's dark events,
Charging like ceaseless clouds across the sky.
But sing poet in our name,
Sing of the love we bore him--because you, dweller in camps, know it truly.
As they invault the coffin there,
Sing--as they close the doors of earth upon him--one verse,
For the heavy hearts of soldiers.
i almost robbed a bank today
i stood in line and while i waited
i made a plan on how i would do it
oh, there would be a thrilling chase!
i imagined my friends cheering for me
as they watched the news from the
circling whirlybird camera
with police cruiser lightbars flashing madly
officers on the highway frantically throwing spikes
they would spot me on the tv screen
fleeting in my getaway car
like Clyde Barrow – a grand marshal
in some outrageous parade - with the
windows rolled down
as paper bills streamed from my ride
like confetti, parting the Red Sea
rush hour traffic in a race with Smokey
for the Mexican
frontera
...
the buxom brunette bank teller behind the plate glass
soon snapped me out of my deluded daydream
she was bored and unattentive
but i think she could tell i was up to no good.
i saw her later at the bar down the street, during
happy hour, chatting with some other young fella
smiling kindly and absently stirring her cocktail
i slugged a shot of rotgut tequila –
you know the kind, made with cactus in some
border-rushing tonk’s toilet –
walked up to the teller, whipped her around
on her seat, pulled her face into mine
and smeared her lipstick real good then
ambled on out into the street smiling broadly
i almost robbed a bank today
but planted a sweet one on the bank teller instead
something told me she needed some excitement, too
i am the hoodie you pass on the street
i am the one you dread to meet
i am the one in the park
i am the one who stands outside in the dark
i am the one who stands in a gang
i am the one you look at when you hear a bang
i am the drunken youth
i am the binge drinking culture thats so uncouth
i am the thing you detest
while i sit here distressed
about all the exams i have to complete
and all the sport events in which i have to compete
the duke of edinburghs expedition
but all you see is my hooded disposition
i am the one stood out side your local shop
i am your next local cop
223
I Came to buy a smile—today—
But just a single smile—
The smallest one upon your face
Will suit me just as well—
The one that no one else would miss
It shone so very small—
I'm pleading at the "counter"—sir—
Could you afford to sell—
I've Diamonds—on my fingers—
You know what Diamonds are?
I've Rubies—live the Evening Blood—
And Topaz—like the star!
'Twould be "a Bargain" for a Jew!
Say—may I have it—Sir?
today nothing is the same
though I thought
no tears
would ever come again
today  it all changed
a child didn't cry
when his mother died
a mother didn't cry
when her son disapeared
a father didn't cry
when his family was gone forever
when the world lost their tears
I cried today
I didn't go to church today,
I trust the Lord to understand.
The surf was swirling blue and white,
The children swirling on the sand.
He knows, He knows how brief my stay,
How brief this spell of summer weather,
He knows when I am said and done
We'll have plenty of time together.
I feel like a protesting mood today. Consecutive Governments all over the world are eroding our rights away one by one. We must not do this and we must not do that.
A good case in point is the smoking ban, well that has just got way out of hand. I agree no smoking in places where we eat, but now the idiots wants to ban you smoking in your own car! Now that is stretching it a bit too far. It makes you wonder what part of cloud cuckoo land their ideas come from.
Now I remember and it’s not that long ago, doctors encouraged you to smoke to calm your nerves. Now the same doctors are saying it is bad for you. However, it is all right for a group of them to plant a dirty bomb. Am I going mad or is there a double standard here? On the other hand, is it that they don’t have enough patients that they have to go out and create a few?
Then there are the Hospitals and doctors saying we will refuse to treat anyone that smokes. Hang on a minute, you will treat an alcoholic, which is self-infliction, a drug addict another self-infliction. Come on, a lot of you told us to smoke in the first place. Then the other day another doctor was saying that smoking actually help keep the airway clear. Am I missing something here?
Now I wonder what the Government would do if we all said there would be no drinking alcohol in any government building anywhere. Their Christmas parties would have to be held outside with Jack Frost. The point is if they couldn’t drink they might not fall asleep on the front bench, and we might get a few good laws that would do us all some good. Lets all vote in taking their rights away, just like they have been doing to ours. I’ve had enough of protesting to day. Thank you for listening, now I’m going away to write some pretty poetry.
4 July 2007
"Beep-beep.
BANKERS TRUST AUTOMOBILE LOAN
You'll find a banker at Bankers Trust"
Advertisement in N.Y. Times
When comes my second childhood,
As to all men it must,
I want to be a banker
Like the banker at Bankers Trust.
I wouldn't ask to be president
Or even assistant veep,
I'd only ask for a kiddie car
And permission to go beep-beep.
The banker at Chase Manhattan,
He bids a polite Good-day;
The banker at Immigrant Savings
Cries Scusi! and Olé!
But I'd be a sleek Ferrari
Or perhaps a joggly jeep,
And scooting around at Bankers Trust,
Beep-beep, I'd go, beep-beep.
The trolley car used to say clang-clang
And the choo-choo said toot-toot,
But the beep of the banker at Bankers Trust
Is every bit as cute.
Miaow, says the cuddly kitten,
Baa, says the woolly sheep,
Oink, says the piggy-wiggy,
And the banker says beep-beep.
So I want to play at Bankers Trust
Like a hippety-hoppety bunny,
And best of all, oh best of all,
With really truly money.
Now grown-ups dear, it's nightie-night
Until my dream comes true,
And I bid you a happy boop-a-doop
And a big beep-beep adieu.
If I were twenty-one today,
I think I'd dance the night away.
I'd drink champagne and polish off
Half a bottle of the best Smirnoff.
I'd carry on till the night had flown
And trust my friends to carry me home.
My coming of age they'd never forget
Nor I remember, you can bet.
(For Tiffany Etter)
If I were to die today...
Forever im my heart your love would stay.
Through my mind your memories would flow.
Wishing I could hold you and never let you go.
I Would remember your voice and laughter
Many years after.
I would gaze upon you everyday from the heaves above.
Just to feel your heart with all of my love.
If Jesus was born today
it would be in a downtown motel
marked by a helicopter's flashing bulb.
A traffic warden, working late,
would be the first upon the scene.
Later, at the expense of a TV network,
an eminent sociologist,
the host of a chat show
and a controversial author
would arrive with their good wishes
-the whole occasion to be filmed as part of the
'Is This The Son Of God?' one hour special.
Childhood would be a blur of photographs and speculation
dwindling by his late teens into
'Where Is He Now?' features in Sunday magazines.
If Jesus was thirty today
they wouldn't really care about the public ministry,
they'd be too busy investigating His finances
and trying to prove He had Church or Mafia connections.
The miracles would be explained by
an eminent and controversial magician,
His claims to be God's Son recognised as
excellent examples of Spoken English
and immediately incorporated into
the O-Level syllabus,
His sinless perfection considered by moral philosophers
as, OK, but a bit repressive.
If Jesus was thirty-one today
He'd be the fly in everyone's ointment-
the sort of controversial person who
stands no chance of eminence.
Communists would expel Him, capitalists
would exploit Him or have Him
smeared by people who know a thing or two about God.
Doctors would accuse Him of quackery,
soldiers would accuse Him of cowardice,
theologians would take Him aside and try
to persuade Him of His non-existence.
If Jesus was thirty-two today we'd have to
end it all. Heretic, fundamentalist, literalist,
puritan, pacifist, non-conformist, we'd take Him
away and quietly end the argument.
But the argument would rumble in the ground
at the end of three days and would break out
and walk around as though death was some bug,
saying 'I am the resurrection and the life...
No man cometh to the Father but by me'.
While the magicians researched new explanations
and the semanticists wondered exactly what
He meant by 'I' and 'No man' there would be those
who stand around amused, asking for something
called proof.
Searching through the attic
I was completely caught off guard
when the sudden flood of memories
were found inside a card.
The card was sent to you.
It had an air of 'young and sweet'.
You were still in my belly
and I feared we'd never meet.
The doctors warned of danger
so I prayed like none before.
I prayed you would be healthy
for me to just adore.
They put me up on bedrest
and said to ''Just stay put! ''
I couldn't leave the bedroom...
not even just a foot.
The months dragged by so slowly
but it was worth the wait.
They worried you wouldn't weigh 5 lbs
but you weighed nearly 8!
My one and only son.
No more babies for me.
I read the card I found today
and cried so joyously.
My visit to the attic
has renewed my faith in Him.
I felt my heart still glowing
as the attic lights went dim.
I hate the world today and hate myself in everyway
I hate the person that I have become
I hate the dreams and the nightmares I have
And hate the days when I can’t
I can’t hold on anymore
My foot is half way out the door
And everyday there is some mistake I have made
I’ve learned my lesson
I can not win
I’m set to lose
And hurt within
But everyday I make one mistake
I wish I could take it away
And all the pain my friends have felt
I wish it would go away
I’d rather die then live life
And rather burn than cry
But everyday I make
More and more mistakes
I don’t know if I can go on
529
I'm sorry for the Dead—Today—
It's such congenial times
Old Neighbors have at fences—
It's time o' year for Hay.
And Broad—Sunburned Acquaintance
Discourse between the Toil—
And laugh, a homely species
That makes the Fences smile—
It seems so straight to lie away
From all of the noise of Fields—
The Busy Carts—the fragrant Cocks—
The Mower's Metre—Steals—
A Trouble lest they're homesick—
Those Farmers—and their Wives—
Set separate from the Farming—
And all the Neighbors' lives—
A Wonder if the Sepulchre
Don't feel a lonesome way—
When Men—and Boys—and Carts—and June,
Go down the Fields to "Hay"—
bulldog faced
bulldozed, face
flattened, dried
and creased
to a patch,
an aching patch
large as iraq
tears flow
swift as justice
a noose to
stamp a
committment
not to return
to terror
floods with blood
distraught land
that echoes
prayers
as much as
screams and
cries with the
road to balance
hearts dammed
like the Tigris
heaven only
knows the secrets
of enemies and friends
in a fractious land
the mighty river
tarries out to sea
without a care
looters, bulliers, saviours,
enemies, or  invaders
i recall hamurabi
and and his honeyed sumeria
where justice were
chiselled hard as stones
I saw a butterfly today
Small and green with no wings
Crawlsing into shadows\hiding from a world who ignores it's subtle beauty
Afraid to never be noticed...appreciated
I saw a butterfly today
Camoflauged and shielded in self-made walls
Neglecting the world of it's gentle touch
Afraid to be met with a forceful hand
I saw a butterfly today
Wings new and fresh
Excited with exhileration
Facing a world with new courage
Knowing it can not be harmed
I saw a butterfly today
Blue and gold streaked the sky
embracing the sunlight's rays
Fluttering around my head
Carring my heart on her flight
I saw a butterfly today
I thought it would rain today
sky hanging low & threatening
but like a bully w/o balls
it merely blustered:
making idle threats
sky crying, 'Wolf! '
an empty politician's promise...
I was hoping for cold & wet
something wintry & seasonal at least
but had to settle for a monotonous grey
that covers Winter's sky a cold blanket
rarely broken by clear, piercing blue
Light so clean it hurts
to see naked trees
Naked truth...
What are we to do
when seasons run together a blur
so you have to check a calender
just to know what the season is...
weather as metaphor for mediocrity.
Tabloidized information corrupted
& fed by special interests
(the mysterious 'they')
when it is we who have abdicated,
given our power to the box
surrendered to pushers of mediocrity & fear
who deliver their products
on the evening news
brought to you by the latest disease...
Even weathermen try:
making any gust of wind
a matter of life & death:
disaster specials, tabloid storified
glorified fear:
'Watch tornadoes from the safety
of your very own boudoir! ! ! '
& all so we don't really have to feel
anything
thats remotely honest or real...
Where is Noah, now?
Who's building an ark?
Because if that sameness,
blandness & false sense of security
is ever replaced w/ winter's piercing light
we can go inside & reflect
on who we really are
on who we want to be...
So when fear mongers &
pushers of mediocrity call,
the promise of rain, of flooding
& destruction will not be
just an idle threat.
(Copyright 12/7/2005)
26
It's all I have to bring today—
This, and my heart beside—
This, and my heart, and all the fields—
And all the meadows wide—
Be sure you count—should I forget
Some one the sum could tell—
This, and my heart, and all the Bees
Which in the Clover dwell.
I went home today
And it was a big surprise; Buildings got in the way
And made me realize I couldn't stay
Although I tried,
Old Friends could not be found
Like me, they all moved away
Home is not back there
But do you know where?
I went home today and much to my surprise
I found all the memories home inside
For in the heart
is the only place Home will stay
So I went home today
Just for today I will open my eyes and thank the Universe for one more day
Just for today I will look in the mirror and find one thing I like about myself
Just for today I will smile at a stranger in the traffic
Just for today I will greet someone I don't particularly like - and mean it
Just for today I will sing a song and not care if I am off key or who hears
Just for today I will do something I want to do, no matter what anyone else thinks
Just for today I will give someone a word of affirmation - not because I have to, but because I want to
Just for today I will be grateful for who I have in my life, not what I have
Just for today I will say a sincere thank you if I receive a compliment and not joke it away
Just for today I will do each task to the best of my ability
Just for today I will hug someone
Just for today I will tell someone I love that I love them
Just for today I will appreciate having a job, a bed and food
Just for today I will appreciate the beautiful colours of the sunset
Just for today I will be grateful for one more day that was undeserved, one more day that was lived to the full, one more day to love and be loved, one more day to be me
Life is confusing
When your heart is sad;
It is difficult to distinguish
Who your true friends are
And who are merely interlopers
Meddling to step in,
Maneuvering for positions of advantage.
I’d like to go back to a simpler time,
Fill my mind with poetry,
Gaze out into the sunlight
From an afternoon window,
Ride a horse and carriage with you
Until the world was true.
But I’ve been exiled in a cruel country,
Cutting my teeth on the sour fruit
Of dissipating dreams and vanished youth,
My unshaven face has a humble grace
But I do not think you will kiss me today.
Small joys adorned my life.
Flowers against the wind
gave life to the loneliness of my soul.
I wait for my tomorow to come
Lost inside my today.
Love your head
Love your  face
Love your  hands
Love your  chest
Love your heart
Love your stomach
Love your  legs
Love your sex organs
Love your foot
Love your mind
Love you...love you...
Love any time
Love any thing4u...!
Love your family
Love your' s world...
Ok...don't miss it;
Love today....!
Truley love...!
639
My Portion is Defeat—today—
A paler luck than Victory—
Less Paeans—fewer Bells—
The Drums don't follow Me—with tunes—
Defeat—a somewhat slower—means—
More Arduous than Balls—
'Tis populous with Bone and stain—
And Men too straight to stoop again—,
And Piles of solid Moan—
And Chips of Blank—in Boyish Eyes—
And scraps of Prayer—
And Death's surprise,
Stamped visible—in Stone—
There's somewhat prouder, over there—
The Trumpets tell it to the Air—
How different Victory
To Him who has it—and the One
Who to have had it, would have been
Contender—to die—
They tell me that euphoria is the feeling of feeling wonderful,
well, today I feel euphorian,
Today I have the agility of a Greek god and the appetitite of a
Victorian.
Yes, today I may even go forth without my galoshes,
Today I am a swashbuckler, would anybody like me to buckle
any swashes?
This is my euphorian day,
I will ring welkins and before anybody answers I will run away.
I will tame me a caribou
And bedeck it with marabou.
I will pen me my memoirs.
Ah youth, youth! What euphorian days them was!
I wasn't much of a hand for the boudoirs,
I was generally to be found where the food was.
Does anybody want any flotsam?
I've gotsam.
Does anybody want any jetsam?
I can getsam.
I can play chopsticks on the Wurlitzer,
I can speak Portuguese like a Berlitzer.
I can don or doff my shoes without tying or untying the laces because
I am wearing moccasins,
And I practically know the difference between serums and antitoccasins.
Kind people, don't think me purse-proud, don't set me down as
vainglorious,
I'm just a little euphorious.
I thought she was here to stay?
but my baby seems to have gone away.
Now, I suppose I won't get my 'Hug',
maybe tomorrow, won't be so grey?
Woke up to a warm, but empty bed,
dreams of hugs, forced in my head.
My arms are sore, from hugging all night,
you should see my pillow, all squeezed tight.
Waited all day, no door bell rang,
I shouted some bad words, all in slang.
Will now go out, onto the street,
And 'HUG' the first person, I met!
I saw a dear friend’s invitation,
I saw words like Christmas lights,
I saw a contest to complete her,
I saw me smiling at the sight.
I saw the love for God in Heaven,
I saw the praises to his son,
I saw the applause of yellow clapping,
I saw poets being one.
I saw poetry and heaven,
I saw hope in life renewed,
I saw an Alabama talent,
I saw phrases freely strewn.
I saw sadness and some laughter,
I saw anger and some pain,
I saw poetry in motion,
I saw poets never wane.
I saw poetry and poets.
I saw all the talent here,
I saw different forms just written,
I saw metered rhyming cheered.
I saw the future of our country,
I saw it shining here in words,
I saw the promise of his coming,
I saw poets free as birds.
Open your eyes and you will see,
Just how beautiful our earth can be.
No animal would ever be rare,
If everyone would try to care.
Trees would not be lying dead,
And all of earth's animals would be fed.
All of the bears would have plenty of honey,
And there would even be carrots for every bunny.
If everyone picked up one piece of trash,
Our litter problem would be gone in a flash.
Tomorrow take a good look at the sky's new dawn,
And realize someday all of this might be gone.
Remember the important part that you play,
In saving our planet for a future day.
Our childrens' eyes with your help will see,
Just how beautiful our earth can be.
“In the past those whom you love
................don’t ever die.”
....From “Vertumnus”, a poem
...........by Joseph Brodsky
...............dough bowl
.holding fresh-picked flowers
.....captured surplus of blue
..........Grandma’s hands
...kneading apple-pie dough
......lingering cinnamon air
....reflections of the season
........seasoned memories
........weathered and worn
...........setting the mood
..............quilted today
The racist cloaks his loathing thoughts
behind deceiving eyes
Those men who once wore hoods and robes
Today wear shirts and ties
Their methods changed but yet and still,
Their mission is the same
Today they lynch with politics,
the racist's favorite game
Divide and conquer is their plan
to keep minorities
From seeing that the forest lies
just shortly past the trees
Racism lurks within the press,
courthouses, banks and schools
Black folks convinced that all is well
have certainly been fooled
A racist underground exists,
a chilling fact indeed
They seek to kill, steal and destroy,
We can't let them succeed
The family norm is small and risks are high;
The busy parents pamper, pet and spoil;
The children never knowing truly why;
They fret and fume and burn the midnight-oil.
And children too are never satisfied;
Fast foods, bad lifestyles make them ill and weak;
In parental guidance, they don’t abide;
And help of God, they never seem to seek,
The modern child wishes to be on own;
And in the process, blunders so often;
To elderly advice, it seems to frown;
And lands in vices, amidst evil men.
If parents are not strict to rear a child,
It grows to be a flower in the wild.
6-10 -2002 by Dr John Celes
A billion mouths has India to now feed,
And provide them with all that they may need;
To shelter, clothe them- what a great number!
And showing them the way to good slumber!
New millennium has brought on a new hype!
Ignorance makes them smoke tho’ not a pipe;
Day by day scarce resources become scant;
But none prefer to work hard like an ant.
The country’s heritage is in peril;
The rush for Big-Money is the devil;
Most people ignore life’s sense of values;
Our country can’t afford to repay dues.
Rededication is the one answer;
Keeping this goal, let Indians endeavor.
22-7-2000
The world I live in is not good at all;
I rarely find a human being good;
There isn’t a righteous one whom I can call;
The majority lives in evil-hood.
There is no one whom I can depend on;
The place abounds in ‘snakes and jackals’ much;
They move so stealthily by dusk and dawn;
For time being, they have a ‘Midas-touch’!
But things will change for good I do believe;
The evil ones will reap their punishment;
The world and God, one cannot long deceive;
God will usher the day of His Judgment!
And must I lead a file of men with masks?
My precious time is meant for better tasks!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 7-23-2006
God, thwart the moves of men with minds insane;
Their corruption has reached enormous heights;
And masking all their crimes, righteous they feign;
Ill-gotten wealth, giving them sleepless nights!
How long this land can bear their insults, Lord?
How longer must the poor suffer hard-ships?
The corrupt own most resources, O God;
Most transactions are carried out by ‘tips’!
The people have been cheated for ages;
The poor are made poorer by corrupt men;
The employees get paid paltry wages.
For honest folk, the earth is no haven!
Most lives are endangered by corruption;
The world does need a cleansing eruption!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 12-12-2006
My mind is sick to see the state of things,
That happen here in clumsy manner still!
The selfish acts of men in my ear rings;
Society has become really ill.
There is no justice, fairness anywhere;
All crooks and pimps, drug lords alone will thrive;
Within the home and outside, foul is the air;
Most men, women from sins, most joy derive.
Money, the root of evils has powers;
A state of utter hopelessness prevails;
All seem to want unnatural, false flowers;
And people write not letters send/send e-mails!
It is a show of pomp and vanity!
All forget the road to Eternity.
People with intact eyes, yet appear blind;
Peop1e with alert ears seem not to hear;
People with intact nose, no sme11 can find;
People with every joy appear to tear.
People are cheats and cheat themselves all life;
People tell lies to men and to themselves;
People well-off, appear to be in strife;
People are bad and appear worse than Elves.
The world is bad and so people turn bad;
The world isn’t true and so people are not;
The world is mad and so people turn mad;
The world's a show and people simply plot.
And people waste their time and waste others';
And people aren't true to their own brothers.
Lo, when I see a new obituary,
Untimed demise of one of great repute;
Or a sad man's Auto-biography,
A family- feud due to a land dispute.
And when I hear news of a robbery,
A cold-blooded murder in broad daylight;
An act of rape or of adultery;
of two Brothers who had a silly fight!
The kidnap-story of a doctor's child,
A necklace snatched at point of knife in light;
The rampage of animals from the wild,
I curse this world with all my lingual might.
'Tis sad how men have turned a world so nice
Into a den of fear and grief and vice.
Oh, to what has this world come to, these days?
Nations expanding nuclear arsenals!
Terrorists and drug-lords active always!
Bomb culture fast spreading its tentacles!
Global security has been threatened;
Poor nations are suppressed by the rich ones!
The abyss of world trade has been deepened;
They dig the earth to find the soil’s true sons!
Computers have turned one’s life fast-forward!
Robots do much more things, men used to do;
Human beings have become too wayward;
One nation plans the other’s Waterloo!
Money-power rules all facets of life!
With mind’s peace lost, man is in utter strife.
What ails the modern world’s community?
Men live without peace, love and harmony;
The root cause of all evils is money;
Human life has lost its bare dignity.
Human labor has become very cheap;
Forgotten is the brotherhood of nations;
Humanity survives on small rations;
Prices of commodities are all steep.
Richer nations accrue wealth, keeping fine;
Scarcity of things is wholly manmade;
Most people live below poverty-line;
Poor nations survive just on World Bank’s aid!
Who will to reset the world into order?
When every man truly loves his neighbor!
The world around look so topsy-turvy!
Nothing is permanent or ultimate;
Gone are the days of dropsy and scurvy;
Now people think they can all levitate.
And politics invades all other fields;
Most nations are riddled by corruption;
Black-money, clout and ‘goondas’ power wields;
Nothing happens by mere assumption.
Red-tapism has people on their knees;
Professionals have been much humbled oft;
Both individuals and nations have no peace;
To acts of injustice, God appears soft!
O God, when will an order new set in?
When will all earthlings shun away from sin?
Behold a beggar playing sad a tune!
By heart, on his own poor, old harmonium;
Though blind, he seems to be in God’s commune;
Alas! is this the new millennium?
Behold a lady working by hand-loom;
A widow poor, she has a female child!
Victim of consumption that spread to womb;
That turns all hearts of sympathy so wild.
Behold the handicapped who jobs the lathe!
With fore-limbs lost by accident, the smiles;
’Tis hard and dangerous; his sweat does bathe;
In dignity he lives and walks home miles.
And lo, the whole some man in car complains,
And curses all while driving drunk through lanes!
The modern world’s one main disease is stress!
The kind of life we lead, can most depress;
The policies on health are in a mess;
One man attempts the other to suppress.
The one with lesser talents doth impress;
The modern gadgets make all labor less;
How do you curb population’s excess,
And people gain favors through their largess?
Where is today, the freedom of the press?
Each day, they introduce a newer cess!
Revealing body-parts is now the dress;
That Doomsday’s nigh is but anyone’s guess.
More souls are denied Heaven’s ingress;
The common man, his feelings can’t express.
Believing in
more of who
I am today
than yesterday.
Savoring
all of what
in life
I have to gain.
Feeling
in the depth
of my weary soul,
inner desires
rising as my life,
I begin to reclaim.
Accepting
my fate
as I cling
to my faith.
I now see
hints of sun
where there
is rain.
I now sense
traces of joy
emerging from
beneath profound
pain.
Brightness
outside of
darkness,
I now witness.
Inside of
bitterness,
I now taste
sweetness.
I hold more
in the palms
of my hands
today than
ever before.
For now, I
dance solo
in my
frenzied
life tango.
But it is okay
because I am
stronger today
than yesterday.
©2009
lonely as a dry and used orchard
spread over the earth
for use and surrender.
shot down like an ex-pug selling
dailies on the corner.
taken by tears like
an aging chorus girl
who has gotten her last check.
a hanky is in order your lord your
worship.
the blackbirds are rough today
like
ingrown toenails
in an overnight
jail---
wine wine whine,
the blackbirds run around and
fly around
harping about
Spanish melodies and bones.
and everywhere is
nowhere---
the dream is as bad as
flapjacks and flat tires:
why do we go on
with our minds and
pockets full of
dust
like a bad boy just out of
school---
you tell
me,
you who were a hero in some
revolution
you who teach children
you who drink with calmness
you who own large homes
and walk in gardens
you who have killed a man and own a
beautiful wife
you tell me
why I am on fire like old dry
garbage.
we might surely have some interesting
correspondence.
it will keep the mailman busy.
and the butterflies and ants and bridges and
cemeteries
the rocket-makers and dogs and garage mechanics
will still go on a
while
until we run out of stamps
and/or
ideas.
don't be ashamed of
anything; I guess God meant it all
like
locks on
doors.
I came home this morning
after saying goodbye to a ghost.
I wrote a little poem about
and posted it. Then up popped Alison Cassidy
dreaming of summer.
In England, we are all doing that.
We have to walk in our wellies,
hoping not to get our feet wet.
Andy Wilkinson posted
another romantic ditty,
then he comes along,
and calls me sentimental
because I wanted to say goodbye to a ghost
where I used to work.
Yes, I think the poets
have come out to play today.
The recruiter called today
for my oldest child.
I politely told him
''She's not interested.''
He promised she would have
college paid for,
a very slim chance of being sent to war,
and the pride of being a soldier.
I informed him of her interest
in criminal justice.
I let him know she is going to college
and we will figure out how to finance it.
He sang me the praises of the
Military Police.
Told me of how proud she would be
and how proud I should be if she chose this path.
He explained how if she was working on a degree
she could not be sent into active duty on dangerous lands.
But, in his next breath he told me how she would get her degree
in a much faster pace than in a traditional college setting.
I declined interest
while I pretended to write the number he left for my daughter.
I did tell her about his phone call
but I also told her why I hope she doesn't choose
to be a soldier.
Is my greediness with my childs life a sin?
I know ''somebody has to do it''...
but, I can't bare the thought
of my child being sent to fight in a war.
I realize this is probably very
un-patriotic.
For that, I'm sorry.
I have lost many things in my lifetime.
My childs life is not one of those things I wish to sacrifice
for the good of my country.
I love my country
but, I love my children more.
**I respect all the soldiers who are willing to fight for their countries.  My Grandfather, Father, and Husband have all fought in wars.  I am very proud of them all.  I am not disrespecting soldiers.  I'm just sharing my feelings....I'm not at all claiming they are the ''right'' way to feel.  Sincerely, Mary
316
The Wind didn't come from the Orchard—today—
Further than that—
Nor stop to play with the Hay—
Nor joggle a Hat—
He's a transitive fellow—very—
Rely on that—
If He leave a Bur at the door
We know He has climbed a Fir—
But the Fir is Where—Declare—
Were you ever there?
If He brings Odors of Clovers—
And that is His business—not Ours—
Then He has been with the Mowers—
Whetting away the Hours
To sweet pauses of Hay—
His Way—of a June Day—
If He fling Sand, and Pebble—
Little Boys Hats—and Stubble—
With an occasional Steeple—
And a hoarse "Get out of the way, I say,"
Who'd be the fool to stay?
Would you—Say—
Would you be the fool to stay?
Today's Marathon Day here in London.
An unpleasant image strikes me:
suppose the journey to the Pearly Gates
looks just like the TV coverage of the marathon?
Today a windy Monday,
brisk, businesslike  north wind,
I would make a great altar
and pile it high as heaven
with washing straight off the line
shirts like roly-poly hunchback
astronauts like human kites
a sharp flapping of hemmed edges
the squawk of hens surprised
laundry baskets full of the smell
of Spring and freshness  and new beginnings
laundry baskets that smell as if
a walk along the shores of love
all Your wind and air and water, and
sunlight soap, soapy sunlight making
iridescent bubbles in the washtub
the squeak of the mangle,
dripping into the sink
stained heavenly with Dolly Blue
the smell of love and motherhood
the hot iron’s steamy smell
the starch, the sharp warm ironed piles
ready for the cupboard shelves
and say, look everyone
this is a woman’s lifetime of unspoken love
see it made of the holy elements themselves
as on the first day of Creation
that is ever a woman’s life
men, worship this
Today is the day I bury you
It will be a sad day, oh but then again
every day with you has been
I've been thinking about your eulogy
What will I say?
Will I cry?
Of all the places you could have died
Why in my heart deep inside
It has been a very painful rollercoaster ride
Ive tried more than once to bury you
I kept hanging on trying to convince myself
that you might love me to
Enough is enough so
Today is the day I bury you
Today I lit a candle,
In memory of you,
A very special tribute,
A flame of gold and blue.
The flame it burned so brightly,
I sat and watched it glow,
It took me back to yesteryears,
A long, long time ago.
I thought about how things have been,
For me, since you’ve been gone,
Were your hopes, for me fulfilled,
Have I turned out, proud and strong.
Did I stand, by what you taught,
Did I let you down sometimes,
Did I always listen to,
Advice you left behind.
I’ve tried to so hard throughout the years,
To live it by the letter,
Did I make you proud of me,
Or could I have done better.
And looking back, I’m sure that you,
Would love me just the same,
You know my faults, you realise,
I’m only human too.
Today I lit a candle,
With gratitude and love,
And you were there to catch the flame,
Of true eternal love.
Today I looked at you
Studied every angle of your face
Your nose, your eyelashes, your mouth
I tried to engrave every inch of you into my mind
So I would not forget a single detail
I drank you in as you stood before me
Appearing completely oblivious of my stealing your essence
As I knew I would not see you
For a while
Today I saw a Hedgehog
A funny looking thing
He crept across the lawn outside
As I sat watching him
He snuffled through the leaves and grass
His nose twitched like a snake
And then he stopped quite suddenly
As he came across a rake
At first he rolled into a ball
Quite comical to see
Then slowly poked his head out
And I'm sure he winked at me
Once more he turned towards the rake
Who's spines looked somewhat higher
And slowly moved toward it
With what to me, looked like desire
First he nudged it with his nose
Then rubbed against the prongs
Then getting no reaction
Seemed to sense that somethings wrong
And then he tried to mount it
But that just came to grief
And shuffled off indignantly
Which came as some relief
And so I've learned a moral
From this hedgehog in his teens
Things that we take for granted
Are not always as they seem.
Today is just another day
Of highs and lows
When the winds blow and the waters flow
Today is just another day
A day to make amends and new friends
For there will come a time it will all end
Today is just another day
We eat and go to work
Some seat and wait for luck
Others cheat giving the sweet talk
Today is just another day
Where we must live for tomorrow
Or give in to everlasting sorrow
Today is just another day
We breathe in the same air
Trying to invent new ideas
Exhibiting passionate care or fear
Today is just another day
While some of us delight in joy
Others will find a way to deploy
Tools to destroy the moments we enjoy
Today is no different from yesterday
Technology the only change in the game
The people are still the same
Looking for one to take on the blame
Always worshipping those with a name
Broken hearts and love keep alive the dying flame
Today is just another day
It will fade away
Quickly into yesterday
Tomorrow then gladly will become today!
Today was the day everything went on its way
progress in love, work and Religion what a day
Is that out of your love God or a hole in my whole
life is unfaithful, ungrateful so I learned after all
Let me live that moment
smile and see the latent
when everything smiles to you
you are no longer one but two
so stop here tell me
why Have you chosen me?
Am I No longer Sara
known to be Hera
Amazing why You why you
when all I love, you did not do
you said an order from above
yeah when a caller called for love
will I leave my castle
descend on a fossil
so weird so clumsy
I in this world Have mercy!
for a man I loved not
yet for him I invest all my lot
struggle, fear, tear and despair
all are gone and will flare
For I will live to make him face
tribulations that stake, he will trace
all my torments and take them away
thus, we will begin our new furnished way
Today is Sunday.
For the first time they took me out into the sun today.
And for the first time in my life I was aghast
that the sky is so far away
and so blue
and so vast
I stood there without a motion.
Then I sat on the ground with respectful devotion
leaning against the white wall.
Who cares about the waves with which I yearn to roll
Or about strife or freedom or my wife right now.
The soil, the sun and me...
I feel joyful and how.
Translated by Talat Sait Halman
There was a time when
I thought that our love was failing.
Then you got ill and nearly died,
and I found out how a lonely life would be,
so today I started loving you again.
The sun in my life began to shine again,
the roses in our garden even started to bloom,
my life began to lift me higher,
and our home is a battleground no more,
for today, I started loving you again.
Never will I doubt our love again.
We have something so precious;
I would be a fool to let it go.
I now realise the consequences.
So today, I started loving you again.
6 August 2007
Today is the day for finding things again.
Tom Tiddler gives out pennies in his grove
And Ali Baba comes out from his den;
The world’s becoming one wide treasure trove!
There is no end until the last Amen.
Vienna’s woods hide many secrets, and
In paintings Henry Koerner gave us clues,
The quarries overgrown with trees and sand,
His parents walking side by side, the views
Of two receding figures hand in hand.
They’ll not return, but paintings that he took
Us to admire, the glorious, goldlit Klimt,
Hanging for all upon its brazen hook
With every dazzling curve and angle crimped,
Returns so the unquiet slain can close their book.
And three years after burial is found
The salt cup I desired all my life:
Cellini’s golden sculpture double crowned…
The gods of sea and earth, of man and wife,
Their feet entwined one to the other bound.
A Rembrandt surfaced with a telling tale
Of greed, her collar changed from cloth to fur;
With time the truth will out, and will not fail
To prick our conscience though we may prefer
To say we’re owners of some Holy Grail.
A Michelangelo, a Rubens in the fray,
A Donatello, under layered paint,
All are discovered on this Finding Day
As if God’s face turned back, without restraint
Smiling and handing us his great bouquet
Of blossoms blooming on our sleeping street
Singing a song renewing an old prayer:
Arise my love!  Let fly your earthbound feet,
Be like the petals on the flowering pear
And sing Amen!  The cycle is complete!
LRH
1.23.06
Today a series of extraordinary finds were reported in different news reports and the flowering pear trees blossomed all along our street
So you think, today might be the day
It might be, it might be not?
Depends on your luck, if it goes your way
or you could get caught?
This might be the beginning, the first day
the first day of the rest of you life
you want to go down on one knee and pray
that all will be abundant and rife
this is the day, like everyday
seize it well, grab it tight
do your job, have fun, play
then you'll sleep well, very well tonight
today I went down on your body
while windows were thick white eyes
and hearkened the clogged cavities
in the small darkroom of your chest,
hedging an eternity over the aching voice
from your gorgeous throat,
agony and exaltation flow in one divide
if I may make so bold,
your thighs are a loveword your hair
night's glittering lining of secret disport:
I aimed for the innermost moon
and rent, moved by the syntax and the slow
of sadness and of joy, so
I love you, love you so
when the blinding comes,
the discomposure of silence,
it must be high up the hills
where hundreds of poor
stamp their feet in the dust, and drums
and woman voices like this ululating skyline
gag the final ecstasy
Today I will go once again
Into life, into haggling, into market,
And lead the army of my songs
To duel against the market tide.
Test inscribe on sheets of trees
Images scanning
Unexisting eyes
Pudding taste
From snow white
The door is closed
The phone is broken
She's the unborn
Yesterday spelled her name
Today or when-torn
Screaming at the flame
Of the one year candle
Missed you, dreamed you
Lost you, can't handle
Today or when-born
Light peeks fading cloud
Twist of fate lifted the ground
Changes-music is loud
Today or when-should abound.
(inspired by John Latham's art, 'The N-U Niddrie Heart')
I  awoke in a stream of rays,
laid my Pregnant Survivor’s Manual
on the edge of the rug,
gave it a quick tug.
At the other end
I placed my book of Vanished Species,
then squatted in between,
gave myself a hug
and felt just like today.
If ever there were a spring day so perfect, so uplifted by a warm intermittent breeze
Today is the day I put yesterday out of my mind
Today is the day I take back my heart and soul
Today is the day I put thoughts of you away
Today is the day you’ll become a distant memory to me, I will no longer long  to feel your touch or to be kissed by you
Today is the day I stop wondering how you are doing, if you are happy and how I can make you give that smile that makes my heart skip a beat
Today is the day I take back my life
Today is the day I can say boldly and proudly you are no longer the center of my universe for
Today I’m Over You.
Today
My alarm clock failed to ring
Today
Yoo-Hoo, The clock did not sing
Today
The trains made me get to work late
I was left staring at their shut gates
Today
I found myself exceedingly alone
Shivering in the flat cold to the bone
Today
My lover called and I got ditched
I really thought we’re going to get hitched
Today
I stank dreadfully; I did not have a shower
The sad news drained me of my will power
Today
I counted my pennies in twos and fours
My pockets were empty and poor
All the food I ate was bitter and sour
Today
All the programmes on TV were boring
Repetitious episodes had been reoccurring
I couldn’t go out as the rain was pouring
Today
In-between my thighs, I kept feeling horny
That tingly-tingly feel was not at all funny
Today
I read the newspaper without focus
Wondering what was the entire fuss
About sleeping with one’s boss
A whole page dedicated to it, was the loss
Today
I listened to some sad love songs
Speculating where I had done wrong
Next time, yes! I am going to be strong
Today
I fantasised about my next affair
Detailing it in my head with care
Another tragedy I simply cannot bear
Today
I sang, spoke and smiled
Whilst I had my nails filed
Today
I made positive future plans
I am my own number one fan
Of many visions, I am the woman!
Also by definition, I am the woman!
Today
I passed life’s challenge
Having my hearty revenge
I went off to bed felicitous
Every today is always joyous!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
But the sun also rises
towards yet another day
And the sun does not fear
Come what may
Because this is a day
of lilies and butterflies
A day of laughter and cheers,
of infinite cries
This is a day
unlike any you've ever seen
It will bring you life,
on this you can lean
This is the day
That will turn your world around
this will be the very
day that you found
Another truth
That shows you why you are you
Today you'll find the importance
of always staying true
This day will be unique
Just like every other.
This is To-day, a child in white and blue
Running to meet me out of Night who stilled
The ghost of Yester-eve; this is fair Morn
The mother of To-morrow. And these clouds
That chase the sunshine over gleaming hills
Are thoughts, delighting in the golden change
And the ceremony of their drifting state.
This is To-day. To-morrow might bring death,—
And Life, the gleeful madrigal of birds,
Be drowned in glimmer of sleep. To-day I know
How sweet it is to spend these eyes, and boast
This bubble of vistaed memory and sense
Blown by my joy aloft the glittering airs
Of heavenly peace. Oh take me to yourselves,
Earth, sky, and spirit! Let me stand within
The circle of your transience, that my voice
May thrill the lonely silences with song.
a tender breeze touches my skin
a horrible pain it's bringing
and I wanna go running
but I know I’ve got to let it in
it's so hard to face it all
cause I know tonight I'll fall
don't drag on me cause I can't keep strong
cause tomorrow I'll move on
but today, oh today
I've got to cry it all away
and tomorrow will bring back my sun
but today it all feels wrong
oooh today, yeah today,
I've got to cry it all away
and tomorrow with eyes dry
I'll be ready for another try
go walking in the wood
it's suppose to make me feel good
but today it hurts even more
than I'll go try out a shore
but the sand make my eyes tear
every time another spear
who makes the burden even harder
but I'll be fine one day farther
but today, oh today
I've got to cry it all away
and tomorrow will bring back my sun
but today it all feels wrong
oooh today, yeah today,
I've got to cry it all away
and tomorrow with eyes dry
I'll be ready for another try
it's just a blast
comes so fast
but I know
it will gow
over tomorrow
but today, oh today
I've got to cry it all away
and tomorrow will bring back my sun
but today it all feels wrong
oooh today, yeah today,
I've got to cry it all away
and tomorrow with eyes dry
I'll be ready for another try
Today she got her license.
She now thinks she's all grown.
I can't believe my baby
can drive to town ALONE.
Although I tried to fight it,
the time kept passing by.
Is it wrong to drag my heals?
You know... I had to try! !
She use to be so small.
It seems like yesterday
when I would watch her sing her songs
and giggle while she'd play.
I have to trust her judgement.
Of course she knows what's right.
I pray God keeps her by His side
even when she's not in sight.
They strapped them on so long ago
they're now a part of me.
Today they're going to rip them off
and set my poor teeth free!
For oh so long they've hurt me.
They've torn my mouth to bits.
They'll leave me bruised and battered.
It's time to call it quits!
We started this with hopes
to have a normal smile.
Now we end with so much more.
My teeth are ''single filed''!
So straight and bright and pearly white!
I never thought they'd be.
My parents money was well spent....
just look and you will see!
crashing thoughts against the additive glow
of evening..watching time sing between the foggy stars
a handsome dweller in the hours of hunting follows his own steps
Some Heaven knows the machine behind this smile
and collects the fallen teeth as they hit the grass and chew to hell
with out oil or esteem
picked apart by falling snow
torn down from the clouds like swords on judgment day
if such a day exists, it will be cold and withdrawn
like busted Televisions
yes that was us in the fire
Running from silence decided soon after the crash
Our train cars
burnt
and they lay down in the smoke mumbling metal alphabets
the sea decides for itself that the sun set with other ideas
and lulls against the shore ina timely addiction
My dearest darling scorched
and wide awake in the smoke
she was a child’s first smile after the first bee sting
she was the joints of my collapsed umbrella and the pines digging in my eyes
a book across my chest
my broken teeth and
where my soul escaped from photographs
She spoke in my last ear with her smoking tongue of the judgments to come
her body radiant with unkept poems
A fathers eyes
danced in the shining of scotch rye
as I stared into anything but the crushed countryside
we belted along
breathing to beat his undrunk thoughts
to the river
and find ourselves saved
from a fathers eyes
from the gun tucked between his legs
I stood tilted on the banks
and watched the soapy river surround my feet
I finally felt something
I turned around to a sober man long gone
I looked up to his gun
and then
up to his Heaven
and that’s the last time
I saw
a fathers eyes
Now they have come
to take her shell and cool my hotfoot
to hunt
today there is no escape
I am nothing more then an unkept poem
drowned in police scenes and silence
today was the worse in a long time
all I wanted to do was cry
at everything
at every thought
my response was to cry
was to break down
but I held it in
but now tonight I wan to let it out
but it has already changed
changed from tears
to anger
but  I don't not know how to release anger
I’ve always just bottled it up
but I can't do that anymore
my bottle is broken
it exploded inside of me
leavening me with shattered emotions loose inside
inside of  me and I don’t know what to do with them
I don't know how to deal with all of this anger
all of this pain
all of the wanting to cry
all of these emotions I’ve bottled up
bottled up tight for all these years
but they are now loose
loose inside of me
eating away at me
slicing at my insides
trying to break free
will they shatter me
like they shattered their bottle
or will they spread
spread all threw out me
infesting me
becoming me
How can I fix this
How can I release this
How….
We are writing today many verses
By command and grace of God,
By virtue and perseverance!
We are writing for God's service,
By his guidance in inner core,
For bringing transformation,
For cracking war and bringing peace,
We are writing today to transfer
The message of God in many poems,
You will read today and tomorrow!
Today we are writing, today you read,
Also tomorrow you read, read, and read,
For learning values and perspectives,
For developing inner beauty and personality,
When you uplift inner values and conscience
Automatically humanity shines with light,
You can decide what is right and wrong,
Expressing your selfless service towards all,
Carrying the values of divine empowerment,
Through love, peace and forgiveness you lead,
Godly knowledge helps you to recognize life.
Illusion cannot affect you if you are awakened,
Matters cannot bind you if you are detached,
Living life in attachment-free state you learn,
Every verse which carries God's message you read,
Name, fame, achievements, wealth and relationships,
All these things in material world are perishable,
At right time you acquire divine knowledge,
All those material things are related to body,
But you are soul different than body,
Finally when time of change comes,
You leave your body and form is changed,
Every material possession you leave behind
And it is destroyed in core of time!
Dear soul, you remain in awakened state.
© Kumarmani Mahakul,11 December 2018. All rights reserved.
I love you not because what you are
but also for your deep love and thoughts for me
Your love fills my heart with meanings
and bring my emotion melting in your arms
When you are close to me then my worries disappear
and exchange of our love makes my heart strong
I didn't know the power of love until it showered from you
and you made me to understand what is love and be loved
Today, I am falling in love with you every single moment
Your heart leads me to your thoughts and senses
and tells me to tie my heart at night with yours
When morning comes then I wake up with your thoughts
and I recollect my dreams which I have buried with you
Brings me a smile on my face and rushing to hold you
and find my day is not enough to be with you in love
Hope you will understand that I cannot live with out you
and today you are everything to me.
Two years ago today it was the last time we saw each other
From that day on I never left you side
I looked into your eyes and said it repeatedly I love you
Two years ago today we spent our last Christmas together
So many things that you wanted to do, but you couldn’t do it anymore Because of your condition
We had our last Christmas meal together
This time never seems to fade away from my mind; I still remember it Until today
Two years ago today you died at 1: 55 PM
This was the last hello and the last good bye we said to each other
I had done all the crying I needed
Slowly my pains are getting away
My anger is all gone now
It is easier now to talk about you
To tell you the truth, it doesn’t seem like two years
What a wild wind today
in Wimbledon Park,
80 mph they say,
mischievous, shameless,
wild child, it cannot distinguish
between fun and destruction
here in the park
it does what it can with the boating lake;
but the ripples are barely waves,
and the boat club has wisely shored its boats,
no fun to be had there
but wait – here’s a woman with a covered pram
walking along the path beside the lake…
the crafty wind dies down, then
one huge gust – whew, that was a near one,
she’ll remember that next time..
now it’s spotted three laughing nuns – what fun!
it tries to lift their skirts – it knows no shame
in its innocent fun; it would most like
to turn them into whirling, spinning dervishes in black;
instead, it catches their veils, as they, laughing
as if they are being teased by their own sweet Lord,
as Krishna (would they know)  by milkmaids -
turn this way and that to avoid it;
they look like startled magpies, now like
laundry on the convent clothes-line;
it would love to make them into
divine helicopters
now it’s looking round the sports field;
the cricket ball’s too heavy, no fun there;
it does its best to be twelfth man
in a soccer game, but lacks the patience
to do more than bend it to the goal; it hasn't learnt
to pass, dribble, stepover, show off..
but now it spots the tennis courts and
uses all its thwarted bowler’s skill
to turn the service and return
to swing this way and that;
the teenage boy, eyes sparkling,
joins it in the fun, a double act,
wins point after point in this windy game;
a few scarved spectators cheer on his skill.
the wind is nature’s free testing kit;
it tries every tall tree in the park
to test their roots; and they perhaps
sending a fast intelligence from branch to root,
become a little stronger if they do not fall..
now it’s moving on to test the works of man –
no need to pay consultants’ fees
to check your roof tiles; the wind will do this
more thoroughly and for free..
and now it’s spotted laundry on the line
in the back garden – here’s its chance
to play at being a human being!
it loves most of all, men’s shirts –
fills their arms like sumo wrestlers,
hunches overblown backs
like a row of fat men bending over food
and now the sun comes out –
the wind is suddenly subdued
as if its master had just entered the cosmic room;
and I’m suddenly full of joy, as if
I had never known until now
that they might love each other, sun and wind,
for some reason which includes us all
Here is an uplifting thought,
Greater than some problems we have now rought!
Let's care more about their minds,
Than their brawn,
Let's uplift their brilliance while they are still in our town.
Never mind,
We can't possibly actually do this!
They say there is no time,
They say there is no class!
We must do this and
We must do that!
All the time,
I lament,
Who looks out for the students in this wreck?
Most teachers who speak out against sports,
Know it wouldn't be prudent,
It wouldn't be right,
Sports are society,
Sports are their right?
However, can we not collectively ask,
'Is it strange to pass school,
And then flunk out of life as a general rule? '
Stop to Think,
What should we prepare the students for,
How about those old test scores!
However, how long can we still fail to uplift their minds,
Before we show them the door?
With tears they buried you to-day,
But well I knew no turf could hold
Your gladness long beneath the mould,
Or cramp your laughter in the clay;
I smiled while others wept for you
Because I knew.
And now you sit with me to-night
Here in our old, accustomed place;
Tender and mirthful is your face,
Your eyes with starry joy are bright­
Oh, you are merry as a song
For love is strong!
They think of you as lying there
Down in the churchyard grim and old;
They think of you as mute and cold,
A wan, white thing that once was fair,
With dim, sealed eyes that never may
Look on the day.
But love cannot be coffined so
In clod and darkness; it must rise
And seek its own in radiant guise,
With immortality aglow,
Making of death's triumphant sting
A little thing.
Ay, we shall laugh at those who deem
Our hearts are sundered! Listen, sweet,
The tripping of the wind's swift feet
Along the by-ways of our dream,
And hark the whisper of the rose
Wilding that blows.
Oh, still you love those simple things,
And still you love them more with me;
The grave has won no victory;
It could not clasp your shining wings,
It could not keep you from my side,
Dear and my bride!
The gold-hoarder walked in his palace park and with him walked his troubles. And over his head hovered worries as a vulture hovers over a carcass, until he reached a beautiful lake surrounded by magnificent marble statuary.
He sat there pondering the water which poured from the mouths of the statues like thoughts flowing freely from a lover's imagination, and contemplating heavily his palace which stood upon a knoll like a birth-mark upon the cheek of a maiden. His fancy revealed to him the pages of his life's drama which he read with falling tears that veiled his eyes and prevented him from viewing man's feeble additions to Nature.
He looked back with piercing regret to the images of his early life, woven into pattern by the gods, until he could no longer control his anguish. He said aloud, "Yesterday I was grazing my sheep in the green valley, enjoying my existence, sounding my flute, and holding my head high. Today I am a prisoner of greed. Gold leads into gold, then into restlessness and finally into crushing misery.
"Yesterday I was like a singing bird, soaring freely here and there in the fields. Today I am a slave to fickle wealth, society's rules, and city's customs, and purchased friends, pleasing the people by conforming to the strange and narrow laws of man. I was born to be free and enjoy the bounty of life, but I find myself like a beast of burden so heavily laden with gold that his back is breaking.
"Where are the spacious plains, the singing brooks, the pure breeze, the closeness of Nature? Where is my deity? I have lost all! Naught remains save loneliness that saddens me, gold that ridicules me, slaves who curse to my back, and a palace that I have erected as a tomb for my happiness, and in whose greatness I have lost my heart.
"Yesterday I roamed the prairies and the hills together with the Bedouin's daughter; Virtue was our companion, Love our delight, and the moon our guardian. Today I am among women with shallow beauty who sell themselves for gold and diamonds.
"Yesterday I was carefree, sharing with the shepherds all the joy of life; eating, playing, working, singing, and dancing together to the music of the heart's truth. Today I find myself among the people like a frightened lamb among the wolves. As I walk in the roads, they gaze at me with hateful eyes and point at me with scorn and jealousy, and as I steal through the park I see frowning faces all about me.
"Yesterday I was rich in happiness and today I am poor in gold.
"Yesterday I was a happy shepherd looking upon his head as a merciful king looks with pleasure upon his contented subjects. Today I am a slave standing before my wealth, my wealth which robbed me of the beauty of life I once knew.
"Forgive me, my Judge! I did not know that riches would put my life in fragments and lead me into the dungeons of harshness and stupidity. What I thought was glory is naught but an eternal inferno."
He gathered himself wearily and walked slowly toward the palace, sighing and repeating, "Is this what people call wealth? Is this the god I am serving and worshipping? Is this what I seek of the earth? Why can I not trade it for one particle of contentment? Who would sell me one beautiful thought for a ton of gold? Who would give me one moment of love for a handful of gems? Who would grant me an eye that can see others' hearts, and take all my coffers in barter?"
As he reached the palace gates he turned and looked toward the city as Jeremiah gazed toward Jerusalem. He raised his arms in woeful lament and shouted, "Oh people of the noisome city, who are living in darkness, hastening toward misery, preaching falsehood, and speaking with stupidity...until when shall you remain ignorant? Unit when shall you abide in the filth of life and continue to desert its gardens? Why wear you tattered robes of narrowness while the silk raiment of Nature's beauty is fashioned for you? The lamp of wisdom is dimming; it is time to furnish it with oil. The house of true fortune is being destroyed; it is time to rebuild it and guard it. The thieves of ignorance have stolen the treasure of your peace; it is time to retake it!"
At that moment a poor man stood before him and stretched forth his hand for alms. As he looked at the beggar, his lips parted, his eyes brightened with a softness, and his face radiated kindness. It was as if the yesterday he had lamented by the lake had come to greet him. He embraced the pauper with affection and filled his hands with gold, and with a voice sincere with the sweetness of love he said, "Come back tomorrow and bring with you your fellow sufferers. All your possessions will be restored."
He entered his palace saying, "Everything in life is good; even gold, for it teaches a lesson. Money is like a stringed instrument; he who does not know how to use it properly will hear only discordant music. Money is like love; it kills slowly and painfully the one who withholds it, and it enlivens the other who turns it upon his fellow man."
Only fools live in the future
only the regretful
live in the past
but very few live in the now
the hardest part of all
dreams of what to come
can be changed
and the past can be accepted
but the now?
Can only be survived
Soon it will be the past
then we will regretfully accept
Let us picnic together in Strawberry Fields
my delightful, melodious girl;
let us sit in the shade
sipping pink lemonade
as awakening blossoms unfurl.
We can twitter a tune by The Beatles, my love,
if we lounge for a time in the park;
I will sing 'Love Me Do'
then grin widely as you
pipe 'A Day In The Life' on a lark.
If we harmonize well, a Fab-Fourian spell
might enrapture the city, my sweet -
then each cabbie and cop
in Manhattan will hop
to a hip, Beatlemanian-Beat.
Should the spirit of Lennon appear to us, dear,
with George Harrison close to his side,
I will beam as you cling
to my arm when they sing
a rendition of 'Ticket To Ride'.
When we venture at sunset
from Strawberry Fields
and meander down Central Park West,
I will nod when you say: “Other bands are okay -
but The Beatles were surely the best.”
When you arrive, ring then knock,
we talk a little and I can feel
you think perhaps you ought to say
how’s the poetry going then
but the silent note’s just a little
out of tune so I say
let’s go for a walk
the park’s quite near
so we walk out, the street is quiet
except for the house
where only last Saturday
the two sons were stabbed many times
hauled out of a white Mercedes van
in a gang related crime unquote
the house guarded by expressionless men on cellphones
born into a cycle of poverty, easy money and revenge, then
on to the park, the walkers, the cyclists,
the football players, the tennis players,
the lake, the dogs, the ducks, the rowers,
the flowers, those who sit and watch
this is in place of my poem
this is my poem this walk
a way of saying I hope
you share all the world with me
and all the emotions, all the thoughts
that arise from it, all we see
every moment whoops careful now as the boy
on the unsteady bicycle nearly hits us both
and back past the house of death
where the men stare at us as if
we are some yet unidentified enemy
in a war they won’t admit to
this is in place of my poem
this is my poem this walk
a way of saying I hope
this is the breakfast that we cannot eat together a fish fried in an oil
with so much heat, like ' who cares? ' a rice not well cooked which says ' it is the maid again! ' a coffee which has gone cold which says ' you come late again! ' a egg which is not sunny side up a ham that does not roll a dirty table with an unwashed table cloth which says 'change it yourself! '
how can i eat all these?
i am late for the office and i have to go.
We need not snow,
Or electrical glow.
It's not a matter of weather,
Because we're together.
We need not a 'magic',
Love's not in a gadget.
There's only one matter:
It's that we're together.
Need we the songs,
Or the movies that come on?
We've the best of what's better,
When we're together.
There's a look on our faces
That surely displaces
All the boxes and cases,
and the ribbon and laces.
It's the beauty of Together.
There's something about our time
That bears the fruit of the vine,
Making a sweeter wine.
The fingerprints of the Divine,
On the truth of Together.
When we've all gathered round,
And harken to the sound,
Of God's presence all around,
The perfect setting being found...
We're Together.
Let us spend a few moments together,
the holidays won’t last for ever,
the promises we made to finish up the house chores,
will be our New Year's resolution for the next year.
Let us spend a few moments together,
let us feel each others pains together,
let us look in each others eyes,
let us rediscover the lost love in our hearts.
Let us spend a few moments together,
our long relationship has made our dreams stale,
let us share the soft touch of red roses of our love,
let us walk hand in hand together adoring the surf on the beach.
Let us spend a few moments together,
let us not worry about driving to popular places and beating the crowds,
let us sit close together and look at the stars in night skies,
let us really relive this life together.
Speaking of marvels, I am alive
together with you, when I might have been
alive with anyone under the sun,
when I might have been Abelard's woman
or the whore of a Renaissance pope
or a peasant wife with not enough food
and not enough love, with my children
dead of the plague. I might have slept
in an alcove next to the man
with the golden nose, who poked it
into the business of stars,
or sewn a starry flag
for a general with wooden teeth.
I might have been the exemplary Pocahontas
or a woman without a name
weeping in Master's bed
for my husband, exchanged for a mule,
my daughter, lost in a drunken bet.
I might have been stretched on a totem pole
to appease a vindictive god
or left, a useless girl-child,
to die on a cliff. I like to think
I might have been Mary Shelley
in love with a wrong-headed angel,
or Mary's friend. I might have been you.
This poem is endless, the odds against us are endless,
our chances of being alive together
statistically nonexistent;
still we have made it, alive in a time
when rationalists in square hats
and hatless Jehovah's Witnesses
agree it is almost over,
alive with our lively children
who-but for endless ifs-
might have missed out on being alive
together with marvels and follies
and longings and lies and wishes
and error and humor and mercy
and journeys and voices and faces
and colors and summers and mornings
and knowledge and tears and chance.
My mommy told me an' the teacher told me, too,
There's all kinds of work that I can do:
Dry my dishes, sweep my floor,
But if we all work together it won't take very long.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
My sister told me,
Brother told me, too,
Lots an' lotsa work
That I can do.
I can bring her candy.
Bring him gum.
But if we all work together
Hadn't oughtta take long. So
My daddy said,
And my grandpaw, too,
There's work, worka, work
For me to do.
I can paint my fence.
Mow my lawn.
But if we all work together,
Well, it shouldn't take long. So
I tell Mama an' Daddy,
Grampaw an' Granmaw, too,
I tell my sister an' my brother,
Lotsa work for you to do.
You can bring me pennie
And candy and gum;
But if we all work together
'Twon't take so very long. And so
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
With a wiggle and a giggle and a google and a goggle
And a jigger and a jagger and a giggle and a grin.
Alone together in the darkness
I can hear your heart beat
Alone together in the darkness
I would ask for your heat
Alone together in the darkness
I don't want you to retreat
Alone together in the darkness
May your touch always be sweet...
Up in the sky
I wonder why
The clouds are fluffy and white.
Down on the ground
All safe and sound
The sun shines 'specially bright.
Out on the sea
I wish I could be
With you, wrong or right.
When I'm at home
My dreams often roam
And we're quietly alone together.
When I'm with you
All night through
I hope we'll be friends forever.
Why can't I see you?
Why can't I see you?
Why can't I see you? .
I hate being far
I hate being apart
But I hope I'll see you soon.
As soon as the sun shines over the moon
Then I'll see you,
I'll see you soon.
(15.04.2007)
Amos 3: 3, 'Can 2 walk together, except they be agreed? '
Main problem in the world today is too much controversy,
With an understanding that no one will ever be perfection,
It sure makes it a lot easier to walk in the same direction.
I've said it many times before and I will say it again,
The person saying, 'you can't' is not a true friend,
While you see a new beginning as they see the end,
Seeking to repair, they feel it's impossible to mend.
You're not a gangster so do you hang out with thugs?
You never get high but your best friend does drugs?
Who is engaged to a smoker while they hate the stink?
Why go bar hopping every night and you don't drink?
A doubter has what in common with one who believes?
Do givers like people whose only function is to receive?
Can joy or happiness be found in those that like to grieve?
What genius buys and keeps a pet that makes them sneeze?
You want the right thing; your partner yearns for the wrong,
Is there any mystery why the two of you can never get along?
Friendship in your life is never determined by color or race,
While the 'in crowd' you run with preach and practice hate?
Your soul mate is at Duke and you attend UNC, all is cool,
One is at the game, the other watches on TV that's ok too,
As long as both individuals live by and follow all the rules,
It doesn't matter that you are students in different schools.
Matthew 18: 19, 'Again I say, if two of you shall agree, '
Ecclesiastes 4: 12, talks about the greater power of three,
Psalm 133: 1, 'how good for brethren to dwell in unity, '
I trust the bible so I have no reason not to believe in 'we.'
Have you ever fixed something using tubes of Epoxy glue?
It will not become effective until you've combined the two,
Numbers 13, only Joshua and Caleb believed they could do,
From the twelve tribes of Israel in which category are you?
A basic concept behind the multiplied power of synergy,
Adding another to myself is a greater force than only me,
Giving credence to the intense pressure in common ability,
Not just left or right, with both eyes open more we'll see.
Something that I do although in scripture you will not find,
Make a confession in unison between my heart and mind,
It's a statement made when I'm in my prayer closet alone,
We all know that charity not only begins but ends at home.
To move forward we must be likeminded in our decision,
For blurred slight distorts and will only result in division,
Who can proceed in unison along the road named divide?
As allies unite to win a battle while fighting side by side.
The fastest mule will never compete with the slowest horse,
And over 60% of marriages worldwide shall end in divorce,
So, how can wedded bliss turn into bitterness and remorse?
Failure to communicate via compromise and stay the course.
What is the purpose of this poem, why this particular write?
The color of darkness is never only disguised by the night,
Be careful when choosing someone to patch or fill a need,
Amos 3: 3, 'Can 2 walk together, except they be agreed? '
I see him as I walk in.
I see him looking at me.
He sees me looking at him, too.
He looks away instantly, and so do I.
Out the corner of my eye, I see him glancing at me.
He sees me looking again, and turns away, as do I.
I think we’re both embarrassed.
I noticed he was pretty cute, though.
I stand with my back to him, composing myself.
I turn round, and he’s stood ahead of me.
Looking at me,
like I’m looking at him.
I forget myself, and just lose myself in his big, blue eyes.
Big, blue eyes that hold me captivated,
and guide me through the gateway to his soul.
They reflect every emotion I knew existed.
Hurt, hatred, love and compassion.
Happiness, loneliness, pain and depression.
As a glimmer of an attraction shines,
I find myself smiling. He smiles with me.
Wow, that’s a killer smile.
I stand in front of him, openly staring,
and feeding the fire rumbling in me
with his gorgeous features.
My heart was racing,
but it couldn’t keep up with my thoughts.
Ideas and questions rushed haphazardly through my head
How do I tell him I like him?
Will he believe me?
I took one deep breath,
and spoke.
“Dan, pull yourself together, you look amazing, and there is nothing to be shy and self-conscious about. Get out there and knock ‘em dead! ”
Beautiful are the days when we used to be together,
beautiful will be the days again when we will be together,
Every moment, every day which we spent together,
Will be always there as beautiful memories.
Time brings changes, time brings distance,
time is power, time is strength,
time decides where we will be,
Time decides when we will be together again.
Days since childhood,
We have always played, fought, cared  for each other.
Days in present we are still the same,
sharing every thought we have and every happiness and pain.
Still the strong bond of sisterhood,
tends to mean more than just sisters or friends.
Many still do find place in my heart,
But none can ever be replace in your place in my heart! ! !
01/01/09
Love.
Indeed the strongest word ever.
Love + You = Our Life Together.
Now I know it's obvious.
That you love me more than ever.
Let's cut the small talk & be together.
On a candlelit evening.
I imagine us together.
Happiness & good weather.
All the good times with you get better & better.
But the bad times with you.
I'm still glad that we're together.
So love me in the morning, noon, and the evening.
Forever.
Always stay true to this.
And we'll always be together.
3/31/08
Can u hear the squeals of laughter,
the laugh i laughed when i was a little girl?
The princess i wanted to grow into
The prince i would never find.
I never learn my lessons,
I gave up looking for reasons,
rushing by me are all the seasons,
cant hold myself together,
breaking into a million pieces.
I always wanted the sun to shine
I never wanted to cross the line
but baby u left me without the sun
and tied my laces so that I could not run.
I laugh when my heart cries
the sadness I feel it denies
the truth is like a dream
that would make anyone scream
In all this nightmare is a life
which I live now and then
I dream of love and happiness
tears of joy running down my eyes
I dream of kites flying  high in the sky
which I cant reach no matter how hard i try
iam a little girl scared of the monsters under my bed
somehow they crawled up and got into my head
'god you are so beautiful' they say
I am gonna love you all the way
but darling cant you see
you love yourself more than me
I bleed where you have cut me
I hurt where you have hit me
you wipe your hands and look surprised
when I lay broken and bleeding by your side
Wish I could run and hide
reach a day where there would be no tomorrow
believe me when i say
please please please don't go away
Wish I could make more sense
build up more in my defense
wish I could turn off this living
that would end this heart's grieving
And when Iam gone the world will move on
at my grave the flowers will dry
the earth my mother and water my father
I am safe and my soul heals in the tomb.
What we use to do.
And what we now can find no time,
Together.
Chasing rainbows once done!
Neglecting the Sunrays...
To prefer sitting under clouds,
Expecting rain and thunder to come!
Did we welcome that?
And when did it begin?
I wish what we use to do,
Could return back to us again!
But that would mean,
We would have to forgive and forget!
And revive the love,
That swept us off our feet.
And remove the dirt...
Kept swept under the rug!
Can we together,
Chase rainbows once done?
Or are we here...
To victimize each other's dreams?
I hung the decorations
and I trimmed the christmas tree.
What really means the most of all
is that you're here with me.
You make the season special
without spending lots of dough.
Your neverending friendship
means more than you could know.
I can't say what it means to me
to share this special time.
I thank God for another year
that He's let you be mine.
Let's deck the halls and celebrate
with family and friends.
But, lets take time for you and me
before the season ends.
My children
come together
young and old
come together
all race and cultures
come together
all religions and non religious
come together
let's join together
let's laugh together
let's have fun together
let’s all be happy together
and live side by side together
we are the same kind
and will be together
'Love you all
my children'
See Fee Lee
Let's go over the cliff together,
Holding hands, laughing.
It's over for us...
Except for Death.
You picked that awful blouse
At Penny's...never approved
Of your taste...
You knew it.
Laughed each time I made
A face...
You looked good in anything.
You knew it.
You smiled in memory...
Weren't they good
Weren't they happy...
The long hours of work.
I don't want to remember.
Went to your house one day.
You were talking funny,
Walking funny.
'Oh, I just feel bad.'
You liar! You damned liar!
We were Thelma and Louise.
You named us that...I had the
Convertible. You...no Time.
Let us go, hand in hand, into
The horizon. Always the West.
You always knew Sunsets
Always become Sunrises.
Let's go over the cliff together.
You always wanted to see God.
You'll not be seeing Him
For the first time.
God saw you...and kept you.
Goodbye, my friend.
In the steamer is the trout
seasoned with slivers of ginger,
two sprigs of green onion, and sesame oil.
We shall eat it with rice for lunch,
brothers, sister, my mother who will
taste the sweetest meat of the head,
holding it between her fingers
deftly, the way my father did
weeks ago. Then he lay down
to sleep like a snow-covered road
winding through pines older than him,
without any travelers, and lonely for no one.
Family comes together
For always and forever
In sickness and in health
In poverty or in wealth
Family comes together
For always and forever
Without any reason
Anytime or any season
Family comes together
For always and forever
In death or in life
In happiness or in strife
Family comes together
For always and forever
In anger or in kindness
Whether all seeing or in blindness
Family comes together
For always and forever
Whether for work or for play
They somehow find a way
For family to come together
Because families are forever
It was over fifty years ago
They met and something clicked
After all the folks they had met before
They found the perfect person to pick
Larry and Lois had a purpose
They knew the direction they’d go
Nothing would stand in their way
Because they loved each other so
So marriage was inevitable
In time the couple had three boys
Working together to raise their family
Patience was always employed
They took their vows seriously
Trudging down life’s worn pathway
Keeping that strong firm direction
Always meeting one another half way
Of course there were a few hills
And at times some stormy weather
But the main thing that was important
Was they climbed those hills together
And now those fifty years are past
And their happiness isn’t just a rumor
Their beautiful smiles are evidence
Along with a great sense of humor!
nine minutes and thirty seven seconds
was the time it took for her to fire up her temper and car
while deciding how she was going to end her life or his
the sex had been good for a while but not good enough
that he would keep his promised vows to her
she knew he was going to be with the other woman
she had smelled her all over him at dinner
cheap perfume....he was always a sucker
for lots of lipstick and cheap perfumes...
deep in the mayhem and turmoil of very female emotions
she lunged with a left turn and then hung a wide right
into a highly distracted intersection of cat and mouse
where her small vulnerable car was yonically impacted
by that of his brute Hummer's phallic killer instincts
nine minutes and thirty seven seconds
was the time it took for them to be forever.....joined at the hip
He's often sad, rarely smiles for a reason,
He’s always numb, even in the summer season.
He loves the cold, the wind and the rain,
He does not sleep, he's in so much pain.
He wants to leave this life behind,
But there is one girl who stays on his mind.
He tells her he loves her, then whispers goodbye,
He grabs the rope and hangs it up high.
Tears start to run as she grabs the knife,
And on that night they both took their life.
The net has united what civil commerce could not join -
Frost laboring twenty years for a two bill tip
No wonder there was a darkness to his soul,
For isolation was his true reward and punishment.
We who have come after have no excuse
For we too must write but have the grace
Of knowing of each others words and place
And in appreciation cheering on
The terrible isolation broken by the power of distant love.
How would Emily if she were with us now
Ever withstand the corruption of such adulation by her peers?
A safety - it seems - that only death or the greatest faith can guarantee.
In this world of bitter ends,
Long lost letter to a friend:
This is my entry.
I hope this finds you pleasantly,
Without long regrets or sad bitterness.
I always thought you were the strong one
Out of all my useless friends.
Look at you now! How long it's been!
Heard you were some famous artist,
And you fell in love again.
I always thought you'd save your love for me...
Oh well...
Can you believe what they're saying on the news?
All them fakers stealing their own lines
They call these bandits 'reality stars, '
What a laugh it is now.
I could never imagine selling myself.
That's something I saved for you.
Do you remember me?
Remember how it used to be?
When we'd share our music in the park,
We'd whisper lines of poetry in the dark,
I always loved you.
I don't even know who I'm writing this to.
If I met them now or later,
Or maybe it was another lifetime,
When I was a flower or a bird,
Or maybe in another world,
Another galaxy, far off, unknown.
But you were always the one, the one I shared my stories to,
And no one really gets it like you do:
You are my chosen one.
I am glad you came into my life
At a time when I was lugubrious
And full with so much doleness
At times when I am feeling blue
All I have to do is just call you
but restrain
To tell you what's on my mind!
I like it when you see at me
Or to just play with my pen
to pen you a word
We spend so much time apart from each other
So now we can finally be together.
Neither the sun at noon
Or the soft breeze at dusk
Nor the dizzying midnight moon
Is required when I see you smile,
I’m child-like beside you,
Always whispering love
Into your ear,
Wanting you to hear
The rhythm of my heartbeats,
Never doubt what you mean to me,
I saw you growing up,
Adorable and dream-like and laughing
With your older sister,
And I cannot resist saying
Time has been your ally,
Your beautiful, feminine mystique
Only increases with intensity,
I know we’ll be together again
On café streets
Reciting sacred poetry
As small birds serenade us
On an avenue of trees.
I want to laugh together with God
So I can teach the people here on earth how
To laugh
Laugh takes away the sadness that is in our hearts
I.
I said---Then, dearest, since 'tis so,
Since now at length my fate I know,
Since nothing all my love avails,
Since all, my life seemed meant for, fails,
Since this was written and needs must be---
My whole heart rises up to bless
Your name in pride and thankfulness!
Take back the hope you gave,---I claim
---Only a memory of the same,
---And this beside, if you will not blame,
Your leave for one more last ride with me.
II.
My mistress bent that brow of hers;
Those deep dark eyes where pride demurs
When pity would be softening through,
Fixed me, a breathing-while or two,
With life or death in the balance: right!
The blood replenished me again;
My last thought was at least not vain:
I and my mistress, side by side
Shall be together, breathe and ride,
So, one day more am I deified.
Who knows but the world may end tonight?
III.
Hush! if you saw some western cloud
All billowy-bosomed, over-bowed
By many benedictions---sun's
And moon's and evening-star's at once---
And so, you, looking and loving best,
Conscious grew, your passion drew
Cloud, sunset, moonrise, star-shine too,
Down on you, near and yet more near,
Till flesh must fade for heaven was here!---
Thus leant she and lingered---joy and fear!
Thus lay she a moment on my breast.
IV.
Then we began to ride. My soul
Smoothed itself out, a long-cramped scroll
Freshening and fluttering in the wind.
Past hopes already lay behind.
What need to strive with a life awry?
Had I said that, had I done this,
So might I gain, so might I miss.
Might she have loved me? just as well
She might have hated, who can tell!
Where had I been now if the worst befell?
And here we are riding, she and I.
V.
Fail I alone, in words and deeds?
Why, all men strive and who succeeds?
We rode; it seemed my spirit flew,
Saw other regions, cities new,
As the world rushed by on either side.
I thought,---All labour, yet no less
Bear up beneath their unsuccess.
Look at the end of work, contrast
The petty done, the undone vast,
This present of theirs with the hopeful past!
I hoped she would love me; here we ride.
VI.
What hand and brain went ever paired?
What heart alike conceived and dared?
What act proved all its thought had been?
What will but felt the fleshly screen?
We ride and I see her bosom heave.
There's many a crown for who can reach,
Ten lines, a statesman's life in each!
The flag stuck on a heap of bones,
A soldier's doing! what atones?
They scratch his name on the Abbey-stones.
My riding is better, by their leave.
VII.
What does it all mean, poet? Well,
Your brains beat into rhythm, you tell
What we felt only; you expressed
You hold things beautiful the best,
And pace them in rhyme so, side by side.
'Tis something, nay 'tis much: but then,
Have you yourself what's best for men?
Are you---poor, sick, old ere your time---
Nearer one whit your own sublime
Than we who never have turned a rhyme?
Sing, riding's a joy! For me, I ride.
VIII.
And you, great sculptor---so, you gave
A score of years to Art, her slave,
And that's your Venus, whence we turn
To yonder girl that fords the burn!
You acquiesce, and shall I repine?
What, man of music, you grown grey
With notes and nothing else to say,
Is this your sole praise from a friend,
``Greatly his opera's strains intend,
``Put in music we know how fashions end!''
I gave my youth; but we ride, in fine.
IX.
Who knows what's fit for us? Had fate
Proposed bliss here should sublimate
My being---had I signed the bond---
Still one must lead some life beyond,
Have a bliss to die with, dim-descried.
This foot once planted on the goal,
This glory-garland round my soul,
Could I descry such? Try and test!
I sink back shuddering from the quest.
Earth being so good, would heaven seem best?
Now, heaven and she are beyond this ride.
X.
And yet---she has not spoke so long!
What if heaven be that, fair and strong
At life's best, with our eyes upturned
Whither life's flower is first discerned,
We, fixed so, ever should so abide?
What if we still ride on, we two
With life for ever old yet new,
Changed not in kind but in degree,
The instant made eternity,---
And heaven just prove that I and she
Ride, ride together, for ever ride?
I know I'm not alone
lets take a stand
lets fight it together
lets support each other
instead of being alone
lets not go with out a fight
lets not just become
just another teenage suicide
lets fight it
together we can survive
we can take a stand
we can win this battle
Come join me now in prayer my friend
Unite our souls in praise
Together let our knees now bend
To The Ancient Of Days
In spirit let us be as one
Let’s bow before God’s throne
Let’s thank Him for the victory won
Upon The Tree alone
In gratitude let’s raise our voice
Let’s celebrate and sing
Let love within our hearts rejoice
That Christ is truly King
Salvation’s come in truth my friend
God’s Spirit dwells inside
Now life for us will never end
Beyond the great divide
Let’s pray our friends and families see
Our selfish world may hear
Let’s pray The Truth their souls will free
And learn their God to fear
Thank God that death has lost its sting
The devil’s seen defeat
That soon as if on eagle’s wing
We’ll join His royal elite
We’ll fight the fight as none before
In armour shining bright
With victory through our Father’s door
We’ll sit arrayed in light
Let’s praise The Lord for all He’s done
Let’s thank The Holy Dove
Let’s lift up high God’s Lamb & Son
And thank Him for His love
God’s bidding all before His throne
In spite of spot and flaw
Whilst man is oft a stumbling stone
Sharing burdens galore
We talk with marbles stuffed in cheek
We stand aloof and cold
Preaching, teaching the lost and weak
What ought or not be told
We raise our voice with pious phrase
Uttering words divine
Yet see God’s sheep these latter days
Refuse our bread and wine
“You can’t do this, that’s not allowed
You can’t wear this or that”
Whilst Heaven calls both man and crowd
With welcome on the mat
We disregard God’s mighty word
We disregard His laws
We disregard the facts we’ve heard
Behind religious doors
We prophecy in aisle and pew
In red and gold we pray
Telling God’s children what to do
With every known cliché
The church should speak as Christ would do
Like children on the street
Should walk The Walk that others too
May rise with joy complete
Welcoming all to come inside
Though saint or common whore
Let Jesus be our Lord and guide
Toward our Father’s Door
The quiet moon in its entire splendor
Sails across the starlit sky so tender
I hold you in my arms tonight
Everything feels so right
Our love transcends into a higher plane
Hearts beating fast like a runaway train
I wouldn’t want it any other way
The moment’s right for what I got to say
Let’s spend our life together
Make the hours last forever
Let’s walk down the aisle together
I’ll promise to leave you never
Nothing can divide us
We have hope to guide us
That aura that surrounds us
Gives a glow that astounds us
All the colors of the rainbow shining through
Bringing paradise closer for me and you
Our love is elevated to the highest star
And getting there doesn’t seem very far
You came into my life like a flower
Full of color every waking hour
You came into my dreams like a butterfly
With kisses soft and sweet as pie
I get a fever of high alarms
When I wake up in your arms
Because you wake up all my senses
You break up all my defenses
Let’s spend our life together
Let’s dance the night away forever
Make happiness our new endeavor
Let’s spend our life together
Let us you and me be together
living in happiness
and nothing would disturb us
whatsover.
Let us run away from this society
and live our life without worry
Let us get rid of this anxiety
and make a lovely story.
Nobody would keep you away from me
cause i will endlessly weep
till the tears turn to a sea
that would drown everything deep.
I wish our dreams come true
and one day be together
The only one that i love is you
and you will stay in my heart forever.
Let us sing together, Love
I want you to drown in my songs, Love
And be lost in me...
But how do I sing...
My flute is only a hollow pipe
My harp is with broken strings
My numb fingers on my drum
Nor have I got a nightingale’s throat
Come and be with me, my Love
Let’s sing together...
from those unheard melodies
To fill our nights....
with the music of the stars
and the humming of the moonlight
To fill our days...
with the song of the breeze flirting with the flowers
and the murmur of the wind seducing the leaves to dance
Are you not listening, my Love
I am singing...
from the music of  raindrops falling on the grass
from the soft sound of buds blossoming into flowers
from the murmur of darkness embracing our love
and the soft sound of light enveloping us
And from the last dance of the falling leaves.....
A fleeting smile on your lips...?
Heard my songs, Love...?
Are you not intoxicated...
By the sweet and enchanting music of our love
Take me away with you my love
Let us go far away where the world is silent
Hold my heart close to your heart with love
Let us feel the beauty of love in our soul
When those stars make romantic nights
Let our hearts melt down with our deep emotions
When those nights bring moonlight on our body
Let us cover and roll with our 'love blanket'
When those trees dance with evening breeze
Let us dance with our world of dreams
When those ocean waves rolling high with sound
Let our heat waves touch our body with our feelings
When our arms around each others and makes us comfort
Let us give ourselves to each others for the endless love
Till those gates of the heaven open for us
Let you and me live in this world together forever
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Why does mankind hate people based on religion and race?
Is it ignorance, education, or governments deciding our place.
For people are people regardless of the color of their face.
And the love in our hearts is an example of God's grace.
European people are the most powerful people under the sun.
Asians, Blacks, and Jews are constantly under the economic gun.
But people should not be exploited because of the color of skin.
White people must reject racism for a world of love to begin.
But are not Blacks, Jews, and Asians also guilty of racism?
For some of their religious leaders are advocates of separatism.
Now all people, whites, Asians, Jews,and Blacks, live on earth.
For racism will show God how much our souls are really worth.
All people will die and their bodies will stink becoming dirt.
And the devil will have the souls of all racist to forever hurt.
For Love is the most powerful force throughout the world.
Conquering all obstacles and causing racist minds to whirl.
We can't take money religion family or hate when we die.
But we can take love, and send it back to those who will cry.
For only love will cure any grieving and lonely heart.
And cause a no-good son or daughter to give life another start.
People are just human beings regardless of their ethnic pride.
So people should try to constantly look spiritually inside.
So forget about religion racism and discriminating government.
Because only Brotherhood will eliminate all bills and the rent.
The fisherman has caught a frog...
The poor cried:
- I am a princess bewitched...
Kiss me...    kiss......
The fisherman has put in  pocket...
Muttered still so:
- At my age it is better - the frog....
Which can speaks...
12.12.08
I am not like you,
And you are just like that.
How can you demand,
When I've asked from you something?
I don't think I should command.
Or expect respect.
That should be given.
Of that I do not neglect.
And you expect it?
When you neglect it?
I am not like you,
And you are just like that.
I try to be hospitable.
I don't welcome with attacks.
To bite and then regret.
To greet and meet to leave upset.
I am not like you.
I welcome not condescend.
Nor do I solicit attention,
To be focused on me.
Using that as a forum,
To exploit me on the scene.
I am not like you.
I could never be like that.
But I can be quite indignant,
When I learn I've been scandalized...
Behind my back,
By you.
I am not like you,
And you are just like that.
Bitter.
And unable to forgive.
Baiting to become the center of attention.
And using me as the subject,
Of your sorrows.
I am not you,
But you are just like that.
And that is why you and I,
Have no tomorrows...
To await for apologies to soothe.
With alibis and excuses too.
I am not you,
But you are just like that.
And that is why you and I,
Could never experience another forever,
Ever together,
Again.
I am bored
With love
And it's passionless limbs
That drape over my bed
In a lethargic state of impotence
While wearing the same red heart
My soul picked up
Hitchhiking off highway
Now here we are
Alone in togetherness
Trying to build dreams
With two by fours
And glue
But even a home
Won't tie us together
When our hearts
Live alone
Poetic vows clinched
Into nothingness
Like all words do
Eventually
And we allowed
Our bodies
To become another pair
Of hollow shadows
That make love
To a wall
Instead of each other
And we wonder why
The roses are dying
Admire those who stood with beliefs undaunted.
Those who did not choose to flaunt correctness.
Or exposed a weakened disposition.
Some have rode as passengers...
Seated with sights that ignited clearer perceptions.
Others have been treated to a scenic view.
Either way...
All will arrive at the same destination.
Not at the same time!
However,
Everyone will have opportunities...
To describe their journey.
And the picture observed will no longer be in pieces!
Once complete and put together to share!
You say you don't understand,
What it is I am trying to convey?
And you read again and again...
Still not comprehending?
In a way you think,
What I've said should be understood...
For a quick dot connection,
To determine if it's bad or good!
To digest after reading?
For an analyst it...
Or I may be needing.
But I like the thought of bleeding...
A multiple meaning instead.
I love it when that double entendre is done!
And whatever I have said,
Gets to be a memory in one's head!
I'm not going to make an interpretation easy.
Especially after I have to sit and wonder...
What is 'it' that I mean?
And if I've said anything,
I may later dread.
This 'Rubik's Cube' of teasing thoughts...
Would be more acceptable,
If presented to readers...
Pieced together from shreds!
Maybe I should introduce,
A variety of colors one could use?
'Blue' would be confusion.
'Yellow'?
Too far off track to get!
'White'?
Neither one of us are right!
And 'red'?
Something has been fed...
That can put this 'mess' to bed!
Inspired by:
Alice Anne Gordon
Scotland/United Kingdom
'Thank you, Alice.'
Someone put me back together!
I seem to be falling all apart!
It started when my lover went away
leaving a hole in my chest
where once there had beat a heart.
I'm feeling like the Straw man
In the movie, the Wizard of Oz!
Where all of the straw mans straw parts
all fell off, his legs, his arms, his schnoz!
My head can't seem to stay up
my eyes are watering all the time!
My legs are weak, my smile is gone
I'm falling apart and my parts seem out of line!
Please someone put me back together!
so that I might live and love again!
Is there anyone out there who can help me?
Who might know how, to put me back together again.
you have my heart and i have yours
i dream about you and you dream about me too.
promise me will stay together
promise me will be together forever.
tell me that you love me
tell me that you need me
but most of all promise me.
promise me will always be together.
lets always be together forever
i need you and i think you need me too.
we love eachother while we care for one another
so promise me will always be together
The old, oak tree stands firm,
So full of historical memories
That only can be expressed fully
By the documented words in diaries.
Beside a tarnished statue it stands,
Its stiff old branches pointed upward
Toward the puffy, white clouds in the sky,
And some of its limbs hung downward
Above the statue's bowing head
As though they would protect
It from the weather elements,
And the caretaker's gross neglect.
Many years of tribulation have gone by,
But the tarnished statue and the old, oak tree
Remember together the vast suffering
Of the bloody conflict that used to be.
For many, many days together
The wind blew steady from the East;
For many days hot grew the weather,
About the time of our Lady's Feast.
For many days we rode together,
Yet met we neither friend nor foe;
Hotter and clearer grew the weather,
Steadily did the East wind blow.
We saw the trees in the hot, bright weather,
Clear-cut, with shadows very black,
As freely we rode on together
With helms unlaced and bridles slack.
And often, as we rode together,
We, looking down the green-bank'd stream,
Saw flowers in the sunny weather,
And saw the bubble-making bream.
And in the night lay down together,
And hung above our heads the rood,
Or watch'd night-long in the dewy weather,
The while the moon did watch the wood.
Our spears stood bright and thick together,
Straight out the banners stream'd behind,
As we gallop'd on in the sunny weather,
With faces turn'd towards the wind.
Down sank our threescore spears together,
As thick we saw the pagans ride;
His eager face in the clear fresh weather,
Shone out that last time by my side.
Up the sweep of the bridge we dash'd together,
It rock'd to the crash of the meeting spears,
Down rain'd the buds of the dear spring weather,
The elm-tree flowers fell like tears.
There, as we roll'd and writhed together,
I threw my arms above my head,
For close by my side, in the lovely weather,
I saw him reel and fall back dead.
I and the slayer met together,
He waited the death-stroke there in his place,
With thoughts of death, in the lovely weather,
Gapingly mazed at my madden'd face.
Madly I fought as we fought together;
In vain: the little Christian band
The pagans drown'd, as in stormy weather
The river drowns low-lying land.
They bound my blood-stain'd hands together,
They bound his corpse to nod by my side:
Then on we rode, in the bright March weather,
With clash of cymbals did we ride.
We ride no more, no more together;
My prison-bars are thick and strong,
I take no heed of any weather,
The sweet Saints grant I live not long.
We arrived at our home that night separately in the same car.
He needed to speak.
I needed silence.
He needed time together.
I needed time alone.
He needed to prove a point.
I had nothing to prove.
He said he was leaving.
I said leave the key on the table.
He asked did I even care?
I just stared…
He glared…
He wanted to fight.
I had no fury.
I have nothing left…
We've been through this before.
Another battle in an on going war.
It's time to put down our bags,
And wave the flag.
Love did not win.
She may live deep within, but's it's too long of a journey to the surface.
He says I'm moody
And after all this time  he'scompletely blind
How? ? ? ? after 6 years can he not understand me?
We wasted so much time,
But still produced beautiful memories.
We don't have to ask what happened to us.
It happened...and now we will deal with it.
We'll heal.
Grieve.
Cuss.
Spit.
& blame.
Be ashamed, and have to explain,
to family and friends who will takes sides.
Your family will blame me because they can't see,
The side of you that lives with me, and vise versa...
It could've been something beautiful
I gave plentifully
But even completely, at times is not enough
We've tested the weather
Yet still live separately together
It's time to live completely alone.
©2007
Sleeping together... how tired you were...
How warm our room... how the firelight spread
On walls and ceiling and great white bed!
We spoke in whispers as children do,
And now it was I--and then it was you
Slept a moment, to wake--"My dear,
I'm not at all sleepy," one of us said....
Was it a thousand years ago?
I woke in your arms--you were sound asleep--
And heard the pattering sound of sheep.
Softly I slipped to the floor and crept
To the curtained window, then, while you slept,
I watched the sheep pass by in the snow.
O flock of thoughts with their shepherd Fear
Shivering, desolate, out in the cold,
That entered into my heart to fold!
A thousand years... was it yesterday
When we two children of far away,
Clinging close in the darkness, lay
Sleeping together?... How tired you were....
His eyes are fixated on her soul
Her scent lingers on his clothes
Her lips want nothing more than a kiss
His hands want nothing else but her
With nothing to say is every word
They're meant to be forever entwined
No matter the scene no matter the world
T'was love at first sight no plan no time
The beauty inside is for eyes he holds
Behind his looks what her heart desires
Only had he ever lusted and dreamt
Until this day she's in his arms
Didn't want her for lust or her sight
He wanted her heart he knew t'was right
He questioned not once on how he felt
He knew t'was love and nothing else
So pure and so gentle he'd never pick fights
Unless t'was for his lover his wife
Met young and grew old together hand in hand
They found their love in a grain of sand
It came out of nothing though some may say
It came from the stars where the moon doth lay
It came from their life their love in their hearts
Apassion in soul a love in an art
Together and always
Soulmates forever
Monday 22nd September 2008
It was as if my trusted hand
had sought and reached autonomy
and snapped that old familial band
then wandered off, just to be free.
Why, so  I asked, the need to leave
the body took good care of it
it was a wintry, snowy eve
I'd used it then, with charme and wit
when from the darkness of the woods
from shades of fiction's paradise
a maiden stepped -she had the goods!
I saw her body and her eyes.
My hand, now separate from me,
its motherboard and full alert
advanced uphill from bony knee
as if in search of a big hurt.
A healing hand it had become,
I watched as fingers did the walk
as dew reflected, I was numb
and could not breathe and barely talk
the show was carnal in extreme.
Two teary eyes were in a blur
and dreaming of the sweetest cream,
we could not take our eyes off her.
A sudden stirring caught my mind
another part was game to go
it stretched and grew, so that a blind
and dead man could not miss the show.
Though I had never known the fact
that parts could see without two eyes
it was what bones and muscles lacked
what kept them loyal, also wise.
This time was different, pheromones
were heard to come from deep inside
such lovely, sweet and magic tones
they left the entrance open wide.
That day I could have lost those two
if sanity had been away
but from experience I knew
that one must come to really play.
So, with a cry of 'I agree',
I joined the fun where rebels played
and re-united but still free
we were together, and we stayed.
Like a Captain and a Sinking Ship
Like a baby on Mamma's Tit
Like a SM Girl and her Whip
Or Crackers and Cheese Dip
Sticking Together like a Bird and it's Feather
Like a Biker and His Leather
Like a Girl and a Guy
Like Top-secret and a Spy
We should all stick Together
In all sorts of Weather
Like Mum and her Purse
For Better or Worse
that beach where we sit together
beside the sea
where our hands stretch out
to be held again
like yesterday
is actually a vow, a promise
that never shall again
the sea and the earth part
like two lovers taking opposite ways
the sea licks the thighs of the earth
and the earth surrenders
in utter pleasure
Joy
In the birdsong
At dawn;
In the little children's laughter
At play.
Faith
In the eye that waits
To see the homecoming;
In the anticipation
Of a smile coming one's way.
Hope
As that angel,
Hidden, yet guiding, always;
With a knowledge of a light
At the tunnel's end.
And Love-
Yes, Love, that culmination
Of emotion, glad and sad.
That surrender,
To the soul,
And soulmate.
It was with an
Unextinguished hope,
And the certain faith,
That I found that
Simple Joy-
When Love came calling,
With you.
As you!
His women were too mean to be his queen
And too good to be his concubine.
Her men were too mean to be her king
And too good to be her paramour.
Thus the couple could remain together.
26.11.2008.
There were church bells ringing
and the sound of their beautiful music attracted
flocks of people who looked like pelicans and quail;
some with web feet and others with talons,
some with strong beaks and others with broken wings;
some came to sing and others came to dance
but all were in need of someone, someone to love
and care for them. And the church bells guided them
into the sanctuary of the Birdman; where they could
be washed and cleansed of the crude oil. Even those
who were like crows and whose sheer nature it was to
scavenge on the weak and dying, even they
had been thoroughly soaked in the evil sludge.
But blessed are all who call his name.
From the sparrow to the vulture,
by his promise all shall fly once more…
2007 © T Sheridan
(From Her Point of View)
When I had firmly answered 'No',
And he allowed that that was so,
I really thought I should be free
For good and all from Mr B.,
And that he would soberly acquiesce:
I said that it would be discreet
That for a while we should not meet;
I promised I would always feel
A kindly interest in his weal;
I thanked him for his amorous zeal;
In short, I said all I could but 'yes'.
I said what I'm accustomed to,
I acted as I always do;
I promised he should find in me
A friend, - a sister, if that might be:
But he was still dissatisfied:
He certainly was most polite;
He said exactly what was right,
He acted very properly,
Except indeed for this, that he
Insisted on inviting me
To come with him for 'one more last ride'.
A little while in doubt I stood:
A ride, no doubt, would do me good:
I had a habit and a hat
Extremely well worth looking at:
The weather was distinctly fine:
My horse too wanted exercise,
And time, when one is riding, flies:
Besides it really seemed, you see,
The only way of ridding me
Of pertinacious Mr B.:
So my head I graciously incline.
I won't say much of what happened next:
I own I was extremely vexed:
Indeed I should have been aghast
If anyone had seen what passed:
But nobody need ever know
That, as I leaned forward to stir the fire,
He advanced before I could well retire,
And I suddenly felt, to my great alarm,
The grasp of a warm unlicensed arm,
An embrace in which I found no charm;
I was awfully glad when he let me go.
Then we began to ride: my steed
Washer fresh, too fresh indeed,
And at first I thought of little, save
The way to escape an early grave,
As the dust rose up on either side.
My stern companion jogged along
On a brown old cob both broad and strong:
He looked as he does when he's writing verse,
Or endeavouring not to swear and curse,
Or wondering where he has left his purse,
Indeed it was a sombre ride.
I spoke of the weather to Mr B.,
But he neither listened nor spoke to me;
I praised his horse, and I smiled the smile
Which was wont to move him once on a while;
I said I was wearing his favourite flowers:
But I wasted my words on the desert air,
For he rode with a fixed and gloomy stare:
I wonder what he was thinking about:
As I don't read verse, I shan't find out:
It was something subtle and deep, no doubt,
A theme to detain a man for hours.
Ah! there was the corner where Mr S.
So nearly induced me to whisper 'yes':
And here it was that the next but one
Proposed on horseback, or would have done,
Had his horse not most opportunely shied;
Which perhaps was due to an unseen flick
He received from my whip: 'twas a scurvy trick,
But I never could do with that young man:
I hope his present young woman can.
Well, I must say, never, since time began,
Did I go for a duller or longer ride.
He never smiles and he never speaks:
He might go on like this for weeks:
He rolls a slightly frenzied eye
Towards the blue and burning sky,
And the cob bounds on with tireless stride,
If we aren't at home for lunch at two
I don't know what Papa will do;
But I know full well he will say to me
'I never approved of Mr B.;
It's the very devil that you and he
Ride, ride together, for ever ride.'
I.
I said---Then, dearest, since 'tis so,
Since now at length my fate I know,
Since nothing all my love avails,
Since all, my life seemed meant for, fails,
Since this was written and needs must be---
My whole heart rises up to bless
Your name in pride and thankfulness!
Take back the hope you gave,---I claim
---Only a memory of the same,
---And this beside, if you will not blame,
Your leave for one more last ride with me.
II.
My mistress bent that brow of hers;
Those deep dark eyes where pride demurs
When pity would be softening through,
Fixed me, a breathing-while or two,
With life or death in the balance: right!
The blood replenished me again;
My last thought was at least not vain:
I and my mistress, side by side
Shall be together, breathe and ride,
So, one day more am I deified.
Who knows but the world may end tonight?
III.
Hush! if you saw some western cloud
All billowy-bosomed, over-bowed
By many benedictions---sun's
And moon's and evening-star's at once---
And so, you, looking and loving best,
Conscious grew, your passion drew
Cloud, sunset, moonrise, star-shine too,
Down on you, near and yet more near,
Till flesh must fade for heaven was here!---
Thus leant she and lingered---joy and fear!
Thus lay she a moment on my breast.
IV.
Then we began to ride. My soul
Smoothed itself out, a long-cramped scroll
Freshening and fluttering in the wind.
Past hopes already lay behind.
What need to strive with a life awry?
Had I said that, had I done this,
So might I gain, so might I miss.
Might she have loved me? just as well
She might have hated, who can tell!
Where had I been now if the worst befell?
And here we are riding, she and I.
V.
Fail I alone, in words and deeds?
Why, all men strive and who succeeds?
We rode; it seemed my spirit flew,
Saw other regions, cities new,
As the world rushed by on either side.
I thought,---All labour, yet no less
Bear up beneath their unsuccess.
Look at the end of work, contrast
The petty done, the undone vast,
This present of theirs with the hopeful past!
I hoped she would love me; here we ride.
VI.
What hand and brain went ever paired?
What heart alike conceived and dared?
What act proved all its thought had been?
What will but felt the fleshly screen?
We ride and I see her bosom heave.
There's many a crown for who can reach,
Ten lines, a statesman's life in each!
The flag stuck on a heap of bones,
A soldier's doing! what atones?
They scratch his name on the Abbey-stones.
My riding is better, by their leave.
VII.
What does it all mean, poet? Well,
Your brains beat into rhythm, you tell
What we felt only; you expressed
You hold things beautiful the best,
And pace them in rhyme so, side by side.
'Tis something, nay 'tis much: but then,
Have you yourself what's best for men?
Are you---poor, sick, old ere your time---
Nearer one whit your own sublime
Than we who never have turned a rhyme?
Sing, riding's a joy! For me, I ride.
VIII.
And you, great sculptor---so, you gave
A score of years to Art, her slave,
And that's your Venus, whence we turn
To yonder girl that fords the burn!
You acquiesce, and shall I repine?
What, man of music, you grown grey
With notes and nothing else to say,
Is this your sole praise from a friend,
``Greatly his opera's strains intend,
``Put in music we know how fashions end!''
I gave my youth; but we ride, in fine.
IX.
Who knows what's fit for us? Had fate
Proposed bliss here should sublimate
My being---had I signed the bond---
Still one must lead some life beyond,
Have a bliss to die with, dim-descried.
This foot once planted on the goal,
This glory-garland round my soul,
Could I descry such? Try and test!
I sink back shuddering from the quest.
Earth being so good, would heaven seem best?
Now, heaven and she are beyond this ride.
X.
And yet---she has not spoke so long!
What if heaven be that, fair and strong
At life's best, with our eyes upturned
Whither life's flower is first discerned,
We, fixed so, ever should so abide?
What if we still ride on, we two
With life for ever old yet new,
Changed not in kind but in degree,
The instant made eternity,---
And heaven just prove that I and she
Ride, ride together, for ever ride?
I sit here, an arch-villain of romance,
thinking about you. Gee, I'm sorry
I made you unhappy, but there was nothing
I could do about it because I have to be free.
Perhaps everything would have been different
if you had stayed at the table or asked me
to go out with you to look at the moon,
instead of getting up and leaving me alone with
her.
This road is always an easy road at the beginning,
but time has a funny way of turning things around. The
passion and the love you have for life, you still have,
but I just never saw it, till it was too late. Time has a strange way of healing. The years have now
passed and for some reason, destiny has brought us back
together. Why! There is a reason for this, I don't know
why but, I wouldn't question it. It's now your turn for happiness and for receiving
that gift of peace and love, for your years of giving.
My love, the light now shines through my window. I see
the light shining, I can see the lake of peace, which will
now be calm and serene for us both. For till time finally stands still, I will be here for
you and never to abandon you, as long as we are together. So till the end of time, I will be yours.
together and forever
best friends forever
ti'll the day we die
which should be never
together and forever
we do everything together
but i know
we go through things
we hate
and that we love
what we do together
wont last forever
ti'll the day
we die together! ! !
We're together...
But apart!
Together in body,
Apart in heart.
We have grown
Out of the love
Which we had
At the start.
Only the children
Hold us together,
And the lives
We live each day.
But when you lie beside me,
In our cold bed at night,
We just lie there, together, apart,
And nothing is right.
I long for what we had,
When all that we did,
We did together,
But your heart left me,
And we only remain
Together, Apart.
Scarlett Treat
December 28,2007
That exciting moment was finally here, we didn't have to wait any more
It's a girl I heard the doctor say, the joy in my heart cannot be described
We held each other close as we cried with joy till we realized it was quiet
As we turned to look at the doctors they were looking at us in a sad way
I'm sorry to tell you this but your daughter has a few problems in her body
She probably won't live to be but a few days old if she makes it that long
I'm so sorry, but you can hold her for as long as you would like to for now
They said she didn't have any eyes and she would never be able to see
She didn't have a brain so her body wouldn't be able to function properly
These were only a few of the problems that my daughter was born with
We only had the joy of having her in our life for about one month
Then the Lord took her home so that he could make her whole
I can't wait until the day when I see the miracles that were performed
And I'll feel that joy all over again just like the day that she was born
But this time we'll be together forever in eternity never to face any tears
Together forever
In life
And in dreams
“Be quick and give your chocolate kid
Or else you’ll feel my toe
Let’s stay off school and spend your quid
Don’t let your mother know
Well that was you! Remember how
You always played the fool?
But here you are a preacher now
From all us kids at school
So rough you were, you’d always fight
You used to pull my hair
You scratched my face. You’d kick and bite
My clothes; you’d often tear”
“Yes that was true, I’m sad to say
Though no one ever knew
When first I saw you kneel and pray
‘Twas I who envied you
I knew you always thought me rough
In truth! I’d just pretend
Outside I only acted tough
Because I had no friend
But praise the Lord, you’re preaching too!
Yet when I heard you phone
I gave no thought, that that was you!
Yet all to God was known”
“Yes looking back, it now seems odd
From you; I’d run a mile
But now we’re brothers serving God
And all we do is smile”
“I’m also pleased, I won’t pretend
Yet now; I understand
So come! Let’s praise God’s name dear friend
Together! Hand in hand…..
We will hold hands together
Laugh and smile together
Share our secrets together
And help each other together
We will confess our fears together
Wipe each other’s tears together
Confort each other together
And confide in each other together
We will talk about the darkness together
Write depressing poems together
Slit our wrists together
Scream in pain together
We will embrace sorrow together
Feel each other’s pain together
Plan our deaths together
And endure our suicides together
We rise together, up into the sky,
We join together, watch the world pass by.
We are together, together as a cloud,
Standing out to each other in the worldly crowd.
We fall together, as hard, heavy rain,
On hitting the ground we both experience the hard, heavy pain.
We ride the wind together, with Understanding at the reigns,
Despite the upset, a bond remains.
You are my wind, but together we fly,
We’re very apart, but together we cry.
You will always be that wind, pushing me high,
I will always be that heartache making you cry.
Together we hurt, and that feeling reigns,
Each heart being eaten by the love it contains.
We’ll fall to the ground together, once again as rain,
For someone I have found, to share my pain.
We’ll come together once more, as a tear-soaked cloud,
Emerge to each other from beneath our shroud.
We will rise again together, on the day we die.
We’ll hold hands together, on the path to the sky.
My inability to fluctuate causes me to dissipate
Transient in nature but stolid in form
Panic unleashed, I hyperventilate
Moorings are broken, stability torn
From deep in a hole these changes accelerate
Blending and blurring the pieces within
No safe haven for me to extrapolate
No end in sight, nowhere to begin
I bow down to unity and flee from my sanity
Consciousness shared is one never lost
Striping me of my valued humanity
Solace in union at very high cost
together through thick and thin
together till the end
nothing can come between
im sure you know what i mean
from the first time you said hi
i felt my heart begin to fly
and the fact that your around
i find it hard just to frown
as your with me for a while
all i can give is a smile
as you leave to go home
i began to feel all alone
but i know it's not for long
though to me it's a sad sad song
together we'll be together we'll stay
that is all i want you to say
come together and be one.
come together and forget
the past.
come together and be free.
come together and win against
your enemies.
come toghether and live as one.
let us do thing together.
together we stand and win.
When I see the world, for you
When you became the world to me
A rainbow arched beyond the storms
To green pastures of destiny
Where our paths converge
As if God Himself determined
That this was the time
That we had walked enough alone
On those sad and winding roads
When I see the world, for you
By you, this is now a beautiful place
In the sun that parts the darkened clouds
In the presence of His grace
Your hand in my hand, together
We face the uncharted horizon
Of hope, of promise, of love
That God's gift of time is ours to share
As we walk by the calm and shimmering sea
Down the glorious road now set before us
Onward to eternity
We  play  together
We  laugh  together,
We  smile  together,
We  love  together
and  now  that  you're  gone
it  will  never be  forever!
Splashing along the boggy woods all day,
And over brambled hedge and holding clay,
I shall not think of him:
But when the watery fields grow brown and dim,
And hounds have lost their fox, and horses tire,
I know that he’ll be with me on my way
Home through the darkness to the evening fire.
He’s jumped each stile along the glistening lanes;
His hand will be upon the mud-soaked reins;
Hearing the saddle creak,
He’ll wonder if the frost will come next week.
I shall forget him in the morning light;
And while we gallop on he will not speak:
But at the stable-door he’ll say good-night.
Under the moonlight
Together we'll lie
Held tightly in your arms
Together you and I
Alone
Together at last
How did I ever go on without you in my past
Each moment
Sweet kiss
I simply can't resist
Everytime you touch me
I feel comeplete
When our eyes meet
My hand is yours
Together
Walking along these shores
We're perfect for each other
A heavenly pair
We're just two people
Whose lives we can share
Together We Await The Storm
This storm of love
Where the possiblitys are so great
Our love can take us any where
Together We Await The Storm
The love we have can last for ever
Together we share our souls as one
Together We Await The Storm
Together We Await The Storm
Together We Await The Storm
Tonight will be our night
Together We Await The Storm
Tonight will be THE night
Together We Await The Storm
The night of our love storm
There is no place or grace, for all the human race
The race of will, to race and kill
As anger fills and kills the thrill
That we hold near and dear, we cherished children fear
The wraith of God, the wraith of man
The wraith of future shines the plan
That we can maul it all, from front to back we saw
The answer here, the answer there
And never thought to question where
Did anger’s state of hate, combined collaborate
That one is right, and powering
Then one will fight for might to sing
The battle long of song, dividing right from wrong
The death of you, the death of me
The death of us for all to see
No one can own this bone, together we’re alone
There is not a stone that cannot be hauled,
There is not a crisis that cannot be solved.
Together we laugh, together we cry,
Together we live, together we fight.
United we stand to fight all odds,
United we cheer our victories out loud.
Together we shall rise, Yes we shall!
We move forward towards our goal,
We strive ahead as ONE and whole.
There is no stopping the fire in us,
There is no killing the life in us.
India is our land our heart and soul,
India shall fight back with all her force.
Together we shall rise, Yes we shall!
hate burns and ruins you
save yourself, none will save you
not even the God
world- round tiny inn
division knows division
don't split at atom
come, bring all color
to live happy- gratefully
ones to another
-January 03,2019 Chattogram
If you are not sure what you are looking for...
What makes you think you are going to find it,
Stumbling through life?
If you can not identify what it is that makes you tick...
Why get on someone else's nerves,
Putting up with something you haven't dealt with?
There are many who blame others for what is not right,
In a world uptight!
Everyone is looking for solutions to 'quick fix'!
But few are willing to sit down to admit...
Pulling tricks out of a hat to create magic,
May be great for amusements...
To 'shock and awe' those who sit!
But this doesn't cure a search for purpose,
Or heal those in disturbing conflicts!
Because they find in their minds this is okay....
And gather together with those approving it!
It seems the church is in a mess
This fact is nothing new
Each day she sees she’s growing less
But what on earth’s to do?
Allow my children air their views
Let wisdom, take command –1Ti.4: 11
Take care that no one should confuse –Pr.18: 2
Who fail to understand
A child’s soon bored, when nought’s to do
They cry, when hurt or spurned –2Ti.2: 24
But quick to see when something’s new
And show it, they’ve learned
To hinder them, would be absurd –Mt.19: 14
Could cause a deep divide
Could make them think, the truth they’ve heard
Is better off to hide
What are the needs of every child?
How can their souls; be saved?
What hinders them, from running wild?
What makes them well behaved?
The King of kings can see it well
So down in black on white –1Co.14: 26
I wrote that ALL the saved should tell
The gospel of His Light –Mt.28: 18-20
The truth’s not left to one alone –Ex.18: 17-26
Although ordained with oil
Yet ALL may help the plough to hone –Pr.27: 17
And dig beneath the soil –1Co.9: 10
So silence not, true lips that speak
Nor quench my Spirit’s flow –1Ti.5: 19
That you who come my face to seek
In unity; can grow…
Spiritual growth in truth you’ll see
I’ll meet your every need
Talents and gifts, I’ll give you free
To make my plan succeed –Eph.4: 11-16
When deep inside I come to dwell –Jole.2: 28
I’ll show you signs unseen
You’ll need no one the truth to tell –1Jn.2: 27
You’ll know the way I mean –Jer.31: 34
Your brother’s gift, do not despise
Through Christ, they’re free to all
Opening wide the blindest eyes
Teaching you not to fall
My promised Dove will see you through
My Flame will burn within
For He alone; can guide the few –Zec.4: 6
Who by my grace will win
Not all of course I’ve chose to preach –1Ti.5: 17
Not everyone can lead –Ro.12: 8
In truth, I’ll raise who’s called to teach –1Co.12: 28
Through whom my sheep will feed
Be wise, and let my Spirit rule
Be careful what you say –Col.3: 16
In truth I’ll never use a fool
To show my child the way –Isa.2: 3
You all in Christ have tales to tell
There’s no one called to sit
Iron on iron will sharpen well –Pr.27: 17
If man would just permit
Obey; and see my temple fill
Allow your light to shine –Isa.60: 1
Then when in you, I’ve done my will –Php.2: 13
You’ll see a fruitful Vine. –Col.1: 10…
It is very hard for me
To piece together a hundred dreams
That belongs to different people
I could never be without you in our lives,
Because you are our life.
We are on a long voyage, a journey, a path that is uncharted.
There are hills that will tire us and valleys that will amaze us,
Cliffs that will frighten us and oceans that will almost overwhelm us,
There will be times for resting and healing our wounds
And time for working to just make it through,
We will ache and face sorrows,
As well as celebrate triumphs,
Some nights will be dark with nothing to guide us,
Others bright, as the moon will shine on us,
Days that are frigid that chill our deep bones,
Followed by afternoon breezes that warm our souls,
We will take turns, One can lead and one can follow
filling the other when hopes seem so hollow.
Mount Everest is a beast but well worth the climb
as life is a tower, we must follow time.
Today may not be the same as tomorrow,
it may bring us hope or it may bring us sorrow.
But one thing I know that I can assure you,
I promise you this, I never will leave you,
I may fall behind, or get far ahead,
But I will always wait, or catch up instead.
We are partners traveling together.
Even if we get lost we will still be in good company...
Long back
When you were you
And I was I
We walked together side by side
Trying to keep our thoughts
Hand in hand
Fumbling for sameness
And painting for an abstract future
We walked together awake or in slumber
Holding the thought of togetherness
In the midst of a vortex
Then
We walked together
Step in step
When I became you
And you became me
We walked miles together
Having together a sip of life
Even if it was sweet or elixir
Bitter or with venom
Tasting each other's tears
imaging inner souls and
flying high and falling down to hell
we walked together
Suddenly
a thought of teasing
you vanish as a dewdropp
but still we walk together
it's not for others but I feel your touch
holding my little finger
to transfer unseen strength
to complete the journey
we walk together
my slow steps in your long strides
my tired soul
getting consoled in your unseen hands
my feathery body
leaning on your shoulder
we walk together
day and night
till the twilight of life
we walk together
We
Are
All
Getting
Together
At
The
Church
For
Passover
There's must be some hard times
As we're learning to give and to share.
But we'll find there strength
In every Prayer.
Like sweet Music we flow together.
Like a song that last forever
We share out love that's so much better,
Than this world could ever know.
We'll stay in-love
In love of the lasting kind,
That binds our hearts together.
That wont be over till forever.
Like the wind that keeps on blowing.
Like the star's that keep on glowing.
Like a river that keeps on flowing
Our love will surely grow.
5 January 2008
We Gather Together...
We gather together...
...for there is strength in your name
We gather together...
...to rekindle the flame
We gather together...
...Your kingdom we claim
We gather together...
...Your words we proclaim
15 Jan 2008
We go out together into the staring town
And buy cheese and bread and little jugs with
flowered labels
Everywhere is a tent where we put on our whirling
show
A great deal has been said of the handless serpents
Which war has set loose in the gay milk of our
heads
But because you braid your hair and taste like
honey of heaven
We go together into town to buy wine and
yellow candles.
WE have been friends together,
In sunshine and in shade;
Since first beneath the chestnut-trees
In infancy we played.
But coldness dwells within thy heart,
A cloud is on thy brow;
We have been friends together—
Shall a light word part us now?
We have been gay together;
We have laugh’d at little jests;
For the fount of hope was gushing
Warm and joyous in our breasts.
But laughter now hath fled thy lip,
And sullen glooms thy brow;
We have been gay together—
Shall a light word part us now?
We have been sad together,
We have wept, with bitter tears,
O’er the grass-grown graves, where slumber’d
The hopes of early years.
The voices which are silent there
Would bid thee clear thy brow;
We have been sad together—
Oh! what shall part us now?
We'll have a get together for to welcome the new year
And Jill will bring some sausages and John a slab of beer
And David will bring lamb chops and Jean a kilo of sirloin steaks or two
And we will have a sing song around the barbecue.
And Jan will bring some dessert for to have with our tea
And Ian will bring his guitar for to lead in the revelry
And Carol she will bring her voice she has the gift of song
And we'll all join in the chorus and with her sing along.
We'll have a get together come rain or hail or shine
And around the smoky barby we'll sing For Auld Lang Syne
The grub and grog won't cost us that much and the entertainment's free
And Joe will make us all laugh with his jocularity.
We'll have a get together and Jenny will be there
And the beautiful Belinda with blue eyes and golden hair
And foxy haired Jimmy Rucker one quite fond of his beer
A twenty year old who enjoys the party atmosphere.
And Fiveways Dave a happy sort now showing his years in gray
Will join our get together for to welcome New Year's Day
And we'll eat drink and make merry around the barbecue
And sing farewell to the old and welcome in the new.
If ever two were one, then surely we.
If ever man were lov'd by wife, then thee.
If ever wife was happy in a man,
Compare with me, ye women, if you can.
I prize thy love more than whole Mines of gold
Or all the riches that the East doth hold.
My love is such that Rivers cannot quench,
Nor ought but love from thee give recompetence.
Thy love is such I can no way repay.
The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray.
Then while we live, in love let's so persever
That when we live no more, we may live ever.
The hour is falling free
Into the reflections
Of going mood
Purpose and work about
For you and for me
River of words life's food
Everything coming to go
Passions of feelings loss
Enormous ways you'll know
Getting day's music across
The times of being here
In our answers to find
About the thoughts
We give and share
Through the echoes
Where we together
Are entwined
I plunk at a beach,
silence herein,
I am, bit by bit,
shredded by winds
I pause all alone,
nowhere to go,
as if I were lost,
in a crossroad
Fall on my knees,
and it is you I see
dancing gracefully
in a place I can't be
Flash before me,
our memories,
I close my eyes
and it's I perceive,
But, piece by piece,
those memories,
fading away,
leaving me at a bay
Silence hurts me,
tears me apiece
but inside my heart,
there goes a story
won't ever last,
though my body
is torn apiece
by winds before me....
'All of our trance,
won't ever end
Until we can dance,
together again'
WE two boys together clinging,
One the other never leaving,
Up and down the roads going--North and South excursions making,
Power enjoying--elbows stretching--fingers clutching,
Arm'd and fearless--eating, drinking, sleeping, loving,
No law less than ourselves owning--sailing, soldiering, thieving,
threatening,
Misers, menials, priests alarming--air breathing, water drinking, on
the turf or the sea-beach dancing,
Cities wrenching, ease scorning, statutes mocking, feebleness
chasing,
Fulfilling our foray.
We
Will
Hold
On
Together
To
Our
Friendship
Death is a horrible fate,
But in death everyone can relate.
Death is a tragedy,
But tragedy is what brings us together.
If it isn't about me
Nor is this about you...
Then what on Earth are we attracted to?
If I like what I see...
And you say the same of me,
Then what is it together
Are we really seeking?
You say I don't listen,
To your scattered conversations.
I want to understand...
But you take off with new sensations.
And I'm to comprehend,
Which one ends before another begins?
If it isn't about me
Nor is this about you...
Then what on Earth are we attracted to?
This hasn't been mentioned...
But I think you are seeking attention.
And I wouldn't mind,
To receive that from you sometimes!
If I like what I see...
And you say the same of me,
Then what is it together
Are we wishing the other to be?
When we are together,
we forget about the world
and we go into paradise
in a world of our own.
When we are together united
as one we speak no words
For our bodies say it all.
We take our time to explore
the wonders and rejoice the
moments when our bodies have
surrendered.
We laugh and we talk until
Our bodies refuel with our
passionate kisses and our
love so true, we continue
to explore the wonders in
a paradise of our own, a
place we call home, when we
are together.
when we were here together in a place we did not know, nor one
another.
A bit of grass held between the teeth for a moment, bright hair on the
wind.
What we were we did not know, nor even the grass or the flame of
hair turning to ash on the wind.
But they lied about that. From the beginning they lied. To the child,
telling him that there was somewhere anger against him, and a
hatred against him, and the only reason for his being in the
world.
But never did they tell him that the only evil and danger was in
themselves; that they alone were the prisoners and the betrayers;
that they - they alone - were responsible for what was being done
in the world.
And they told the child to starve and to kill the child that was within
him; for only by doing this could he become a useful and adjusted
member of the community which they had prepared for him.
And this time, alas, they did not lie.
And with the death of the child was born a thing that had neither
the character of a man nor the character of a child, but was a
horrible and monstrous parody of the two; and it is in this world
now that the flesh of man’s spirit lies twisted and despoiled under
the indifferent stars.
When we were here together in a place we did not know, nor one
another.
O green the bit of warm grass between our teeth. O beautiful the hair
of our mortal goddess on the indifferent wind.
We work together
We work as one
Though there may be times
When we don't 'get on'
We may not always
See 'eye to eye'
And sometimes we feel
Like saying 'good-bye'
When this happens
We shouldn't lose heart
For of 'something greater'
We are all a part
Each one of us
Has a role to play
In making this
A brighter day
We work together
For the good of all
It's in our hearts
Where we feel the call
Gods love lives within
Every heart that shares
and every soul
that really cares
So whenever you feel
like going away
Just listen to your heart
For it wants you to stay.
(Dedicated to all who work together for the benefit
of a Church community and for the 'Greater Good')
Work Together*
Every creature on earth has feelings no matter the age
And the 'Go Getters' want to set their own stage
They forget how they got to be so smart
For they were taught by the older one's heart
We learn from our elders on what we should do
and we should all work together to see all things through
13 May 2008
*response to David's poem 'Old and New'
thanks for the inspiration Big Bruv: O)
In the road, a car.
In the car, a poet.
In the poet, many poems.
What moves?
(for Joseph)
bayon smiles
from high up
a thousand year old smile
preserved through the ages
in the forests
snarled, overgrown
with shrubs, ferns
to finally emerge and
smile again triumphantly
well, thank god, for the dim years
the forest, has saved you
from marauding thais, champs
burmese, colonialists and world war criminals
bayon, smile, smile and smile to the world
from all the  angles.
bayon smiles
from high up
a thousand year old smile
preserved through the ages
in the forests
snarled, overgrown
with shrubs, ferns
to finally emerge and
smile again triumphantly
well, thank god, for the dim years
the forest, has saved you
from marauding thais, chams
burmese, colonialists and world war criminals
bayon, smile, smile and smile to the world
in all angles.
angkor wat
granny climbs top sanctuary
to pray to buddha
still stunning  and waiting
at angkor wat corridors
heavenly nymphs
crushing and holding
angkor thom temple
roots of trees
apsara dancers
so quiet and forlorn
at the the corridors
little poem:
under the gentle
ray of the morning sun
the red lotuses
open at morn
reflecting the dew
and close at dusk
so artistically folded
their tips pointed towards sky
devotees in prayers
for another day to glorify Him
the blazing red sun
takes over their place
in a full round
looks at me in admiration
as i walk pass
the lake this breezy evening
lotuses open up a thought
about  the  similarity
between us  -
the gentle steady intelligence
that governs both our life and - death
Call it a curse, call the thousand years a curse
these temples were made to last ten thousand years
but they now lie like a dream shattered
walls crumbled, even the roots of trees like pythons,
have wound their  way into the stone structures
holding them tightly but in fact breaking them apart
the trees now stand majestic as if celebrating the fact
that they had the temples down to its foundations
Call me Jayarvarman IV, or even better still
King Suryavarman (Sun Shield)       II
the builders of most of the wonders of Angkor
and in fact, to feel what i feel, just call me
a heart that has been trampled into a million pieces
like what you would see at many of Angkor ruins
they stand like exact curses of what
the once glorious god kings would
have percevied or feared them to become
the symbols of their power tore to mere desolate rubble
the coldness of each stone now freezes
one the fashion of a virgin's loneliness
a virgin still  in the emotional throes of
losing her childhood love to another woman
and please do not even laugh here
for the echoes that richocet back  are
even more unbearable -
they storm at a heart as if it has been
emptied of all its ambitions
a disillusioned soul in the bleakness
of the worst rain
the Bayon, the king still looks into the sky
into so many ways, directions
reminiscent of his great days
a disconsolate  longing
permeates the evening winds
and the dusk light throws a a melancholic
silhouette over the erroded flooring
evoking a futile longing to call back the old days
to distil the curse of time and nature's wrath
every visitor who visits the Angkor
cannot help but be possessed by the
disillusioned souls of these great kings
and sighs; 'It was such a great great
kingdom then. Every fallen stone
has to be an ache to the great heart
of those god kings, even now.'
up the path
to the mountain temple
a child pleas, sobs
for food, money
thin as the stalks of shrubs
between which he sat
his thin demeanor
a knife poking
at my heart
my prayers reach
out to the gods
wherever he may be!
Confined he was to the greenwood tree
Sky was the roof of his home rent free
To move about was not his spree
Quest for moving yearning for a key!
Planets move along the fixed orbit
Sun and moon seem to move with grit
Birds and animals walk on earth quite fit
Skylark flies and floats well in the air
Duck and swan walk on earth
Swim in water free with mirth
Motivating the men to try
To swim in water and fly in the sky!
Ancient ones walked from place to place
Later learnt to move on horse's back with grace
Trees and plants stand and grow quite trim
Birds and all walk, fly or swim
Some walk and fly, few walk and swim
Man alone learnt all the three to the brim!
Cart and car on road
Train and tram on the track
Boat and ship on water
Copter and plane in air!
Quietly sit in the running train
Nicely see the moving trees!
Deceptive vision swept in the world
Creative mind captive in its fold!
Fly in the air amidst clouds alone
Go in the ship amidst water alone
Delight it is travel in a train
Twilight travel removes all your strain!
Enjoy the journey really fine
Life's journey full of pain and gain!
Dizzy hills and lovely dales
Tall trees and fertile fields
Dense forests and delightful deserts
Coconut groves and mango gardens
Mosque domes and temple towers
Church towers- a treat of showers!
Red rays of the rising sun
Golden rays of the dying sun!
Moving cars in the parallel tracks
Waving hands of the rural folks!
Outside the train all such treats
Inside the coach sure much sweets!
Young and old, fit and the sick
Men and women, poor and the rich
Slow and lazy, swift and the quick
Confluence of all with a goal
Goal of reaching their home!
Display of human frivolities
Gaining entry into the crowded coach
Blocking latter, closing the approach!
Selfish to the core from the days of yore
Giving less and taking more!
Good Samaritans surely found
Spreading cheers all around!
Sleeping well to the lullaby of the train
Reading full to fill the gap in the brain
Eating, munching kept in store
Vendors providing more and more
Talking topics all under the sun
Giving chance of reply sure to none!
Delight indeed is a train travel
Grand indeed is the modern marvel!
Another Tale of the Vicar Dodgy Dave
and how he finally caught a soul to save
You see he has this friend named Feathers
And Feathers won't be found at a sermon in any kind of weather
But Dodgy Dave the Vicar was up to his old tricks
He caught Feathers on a double quick
While Feathers was talking to some friends outside the church
The Vicar rolled his pulpit outside with a lurch
Handed Feathers one of the hymnal books
Then asked to commence without a look
Feathers looked around and said 'I hope no one has a camera here'
for capturing this milestone event was his fear
Well David just happened to have his Tele Tinkle camera phone
and a picture was captured of feathers receiving his fire and brimstone
Everyone said it was about time
that this old sod got religion in his prime
But the best part was yet to come
When the Mayor arrived late and was told what David had done
The Mayor said he already knew
He had heard it all over the car radio news
So there you have it another Dodgy Dave the Vicar Tale
On how he had a church service on such a small scale
Capturing his friend Feathers so all could retell
The Vicar's Moto 'Have Pulpit Will Travel'
(7 Aug 2007)
IF to her eyes' bright lustre I were blind,
No longer would they serve my life to gild.
The will of destiny must be fulfilid,--
This knowing, I withdrew with sadden'd mind.
No further happiness I now could find:
The former longings of my heart were still'd;
I sought her looks alone, whereon to build
My joy in life,--all else was left behind.
Wine's genial glow, the festal banquet gay,
Ease, sleep, and friends, all wonted pleasures glad
I spurn'd, till little there remain'd to prove.
Now calmly through the world I wend my way:
That which I crave may everywhere be had,
With me I bring the one thing needful--love.
This Earth has witnessed so many wonders in the past;
Also, relics of the past say so many incredible stories;
Instant travel to anywhere in the Universe and time travel
Though impossible human endeavours, had happened in the past!
There were some spots called Star gates on the Earth
That helped instant travel to anywhere in the Universe;
Also, there were some spots that made possible for one
To travel in time to future and return sans aging oneself!
Travel through Star gate is like instant e mail sending to
Anywhere in the Universe and Time travel makes one's time
frozen till the return to one's sense that makes one predict
About future to those who have become older than one by then!
Such incidences though seem to be unbelievable, had been in
vogue being followed by Star men or aliens in the past world!
Otherwise, they could not have visited Earth and helped the
Chosen one to have time travel and predict future happenings!
I lie awake each night
Staring at the ceiling
Following each crack
Finding new routes
Oh, how I’d like to travel
Somewhere new,
Somewhere old,
Somewhere where the people;
Sing merrily
Dance happily
Oh, how I’d like to travel
On a plane,
On a boat,
On something that will get me there;
Fast, like a soaring bird
Safely, like a locked room
Oh, how I’d like to travel
To see the sunset of a new horizon
To smell the sweet smells of newness
Like the delicious croissants;
Of France
Like the finest chocolates
Of Belgium
Like the mouth watering tomatoes
Of Spain
To taste each one would full
A delicacy unknown to my taste buds.
Oh, how I’d like to travel
Could be anywhere
It doesn’t have to be far
Because like every crack
It can be long route or,
It can be short route
There are too many waterfalls here; the crowded streams
hurry too rapidly down to the sea,
and the pressure of so many clouds on the mountaintops
makes them spill over the sides in soft slow-motion,
turning to waterfalls under our very eyes.
- For if those streaks, those mile-long, shiny, tearstains,
aren't waterfalls yet,
in a quick age or so, as ages go here,
they probably will be.
But if the streams and clouds keep travelling, travelling,
the mountains look like the hulls of capsized ships,
slime-hung and barnacled.
Think of the long trip home.
Should we have stayed at home and thought of here?
Where should we be today?
Is it right to be watching strangers in a play
in this strangest of theatres?
What childishness is it that while there's a breath of life
in our bodies, we are determined to rush
to see the sun the other way around?
The tiniest green hummingbird in the world?
To stare at some inexplicable old stonework,
inexplicable and impenetrable,
at any view,
instantly seen and always, always delightful?
Oh, must we dream our dreams
and have them, too?
And have we room
for one more folded sunset, still quite warm?
But surely it would have been a pity
not to have seen the trees along this road,
really exaggerated in their beauty,
not to have seen them gesturing
like noble pantomimists, robed in pink.
- Not to have had to stop for gas and heard
the sad, two-noted, wooden tune
of disparate wooden clogs
carelessly clacking over
a grease-stained filling-station floor.
(In another country the clogs would all be tested.
Each pair there would have identical pitch.)
- A pity not to have heard
the other, less primitive music of the fat brown bird
who sings above the broken gasoline pump
in a bamboo church of Jesuit baroque:
three towers, five silver crosses.
- Yes, a pity not to have pondered,
blurr'dly and inconclusively,
on what connection can exist for centuries
between the crudest wooden footwear
and, careful and finicky,
the whittled fantasies of wooden cages
- Never to have studied history in
the weak calligraphy of songbirds' cages.
- And never to have had to listen to rain
so much like politicians' speeches:
two hours of unrelenting oratory
and then a sudden golden silence
in which the traveller takes a notebook, writes:
'Is it lack of imagination that makes us come
to imagined places, not just stay at home?
Or could Pascal have been not entirely right
about just sitting quietly in one's room?
Continent, city, country, society:
the choice is never wide and never free.
And here, or there... No. Should we have stayed at home,
wherever that may be? '
There are many roads we travel
And probably most we leave behind
We continue to walk ahead of us
New fresh roads we want to find
And sometimes we wonder
If we took the best road we could
If we could erase them and start over
We often think perhaps we would
Some roads we travel often though
Off and on throughout the years
They get worn and sad and weary
And we shed so many tears
But we try to put them behind us
And trudge bravely on ahead
Trying very heard to not look back
But find great new roads instead
So no matter where we’ve been
As our lives we continue to unravel
We all just try to do our best
With the many roads we travel!
SWALLOWS travel to and fro,
And the great winds come and go,
And the steady breezes blow,
Bearing perfume, bearing love.
Breezes hasten, swallows fly,
Towered clouds forever ply,
And at noonday, you and I
See the same sunshine above.
Dew and rain fall everywhere,
Harvests ripen, flowers are fair,
And the whole round earth is bare
To the moonshine and the sun;
And the live air, fanned with wings,
Bright with breeze and sunshine, brings
Into contact distant things,
And makes all the countries one.
Let us wander where we will,
Something kindred greets us still;
Something seen on vale or hill
Falls familiar on the heart;
So, at scent or sound or sight,
Severed souls by day and night
Tremble with the same delight -
Tremble, half the world apart.
A poem moves forward,
Like the passages and percussions of trains in progress
A pattern of recurrence, a hammer of repetetiveoccurrence
a slow less and less heard
low thunder under all passengers
Steel sounds tripping and tripled and
Grinding, revolving, gripping, turning, and returning
as the flung carpet of the wide countryside spreads out on
each side in billows
And in isolation, rolled out, white house, red barn, squat silo,
Pasture, hill, meadow and woodland pasture
And the striped poles step fast past the train windows
Second after second takes snapshots, clicking,
Into the dangled boxes of glinting windows
Snapshots and selections, rejections, at angles, of shadows
A small town: a shop's sign - GARAGE, and then white gates
Where waiting cars wait with the unrest of trembling
Breathing hard and idling, until the slow~descent
Of the red cones of sunset: a dead march: a slow tread and heavy
Of the slowed horses of Apollo
- Until the slowed horses of Apollo go over the horizon
And all things are parked, slowly or willingly,
into the customary or at random places.
What a thrill it is to travel
Perhaps in a different country
The cultures incredibly diverse
So many wonderful things to see
The clothes can be so different
Unique in their treasured styles
An entirely distinctive kind of people
With their friendly happy smiles
And the food can be quite challenging
Different tastes and how they eat
But, hey, I’m ready to try it
Doesn’t have to be potatoes and meat
Different ways and thoughts of worship
It is such an international treat
To see the different cultures
And all the interesting folks you meet
So if you get a chance, folks
Get on a plane or cruising ship
Take yourself to another country
Have a great and wonderful trip!
He slammed the hood down,
was like a judge with a gavel.
I felt the tug of my string—
beginning to unravel.
Attendant started to sing,
as my tires spun gravel.
Down the dark way—
I began to travel.
What does one say
to oneself on the way
of an uncertain journey
down a desert highway.
How does one hide
from those things on the side
of a lonely dark
highway night ride.
When you travel ‘cross the country
You see along the roadways
Bright and cheerful flowers especially
In the warm spring and summer days
I love the beautiful sunflowers
Bold yellow blooms you see
Nodding in the gentle winds
Seem to say “hello” to me
White flowers ‘long side a trail
Roots go deep in red dirt
Stand out just beautifully
As they crop up in little spurts
Old barns off in the distance
In the midst of a field of dry grass
Are dotted with many flowers
Oh, I enjoy them when I pass
When spring time sets in and we have
Warm and gentle spring showers
I love to start my trips to see
Delightful travel flowers!
Denali National Park
his camera makes me
kiss a grizzly bear
Denali National Park
their debate whether to spring
or winter there
Black Hills water
the fishtoo out
on a leisurely ride
Black Hills
torn between fishes and
the attractive landscape
Black Hills throws
two hooks at me
fishes and landscape
Black Hills
killing two birds with a stone
one day i fish, the other i trek
For the best trout fishing in the Black Hills area, take the locals' advice and head to Rapid, Castle, Spring, or Spearfish Creek. Fish among herds of buffalo at French Creek in Custer State Park or enjoy the idyllic scenery of the popular Sylvan Lake. No need to rush; fly-fishing season in the Black Hills lasts through fall and, for the dedicated, some fast-flowing and spring-fed creeks offer opportunities for fishing through winter
antarctic excursion
the new split edge of
a glacier
antartic excursion
a glacier coldly
passes us by
antarctic excursion
they tell us how  to bring
the heat down
antarctic excursion
the air warms up
to our arrival
antarctic excursion
taking a cold look at
a breakaway glacier
antarctic excursion
a glacier coldly floats
by our boat
sinister as a wolf
the glacier that floats
by our boat!
With all the hype over global warming and the loss of the world's glaciers, Antarctica has become an increasingly popular travel destination. Witness the icy continent's captivating natural wonders while you can, but do your part to protect the environment from further damage. Take a cruise with outfitters such as Natural Habitat Adventures, who now offer carbon-neutral expeditions, or Peregrine Adventures, who follow strict guidelines for environmentally sound tourism.
Arches National Park
frozen in their dance
the shapely rocks
Arches National Park
i stretch my hands
to dance with rocks
Arches National Park
inspiring me to dance
rocks of all shapes and sizes
arches national park
nature takes a rest in
a rock dance
Arches National Park
still at their work
the winds
Arches National Park
nature's hands are
in the winds
Arches National Park
i choreograph a
rocky dance
Arches National Park lives up to its name. Its salt bed base—called the "Paradox Foundation"—has resulted in more than 2,000 natural sandstone arches and countless unusual rock formations. This gave Mother Nature a canvas to shape and form the arches, spires, fins, and monoliths.
australian shortbreak
from my brother's bag
a furry kangaroo
kangaroo souvenir
a bagful of aussie
memory]
aussie holiday
from son's bag
a little kangaroo
furry kangaroo
a warm aussie memory
jumps from the shelf
Australia Touring Music Festival
the kiwis waltz and
the kangaroos jump
Australia Touring Music Festival
from the 'kangaroo' pauch
two tickets to canberra
Australia's touring music festival, Big Day Out, includes New Zealand this year, kicking off at Mount Smart Stadium on January 18 in Auckland. The newly reformed Rage Against the Machine heads the lineup, along with Australian native Silverchair, and indie favorites Arcade Fire and LCD Soundsystem. After Auckland, the festival moves on to the Gold Coast, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth.
Baja Mexico
the whales are appetisers
for the eyes
Baja Mexico
between each swirl of the paddles
our excitements
Baja Mexico
our laughters join
the waves
Mexico
If there is an ideal sea kayaking destination, Baja Mexico may be it. The water is warm, the wildlife is varied and abundant, and there are countless inlets and beaches to explore. A group of quality outfitters leads kayak trips to Baja year-round, though most tours are conducted during Mexico's warm winters. Some tours focus on wildlife and whale-watching, while others emphasize exploration of remote coves and out-of-the-way beaches.
Charm City
traffic to crab cake market
slows to a crawl
lightly and surely
it fires up my tastebuds
Baltimore's crab cake
Baltimore blue crab cake
light and springy
a baseball in action
When in Charm City, be sure to taste the award-winning Baltimore crab cakes at local favorite Lexington Market. About the size of a baseball and made of only the most tender crabmeat found in Maryland blue crabs, they are crafted by hand so as not to crush the large, juicy lumps. And—though the original recipe remains hush-hush—we know that crushed saltine crackers instead of bread crumbs help keep the cakes light and fluffy.
Botswana's Okavango Delta
a baby elephant trumpets
the joy of salvation
Botswana's Okavango
elephant's cry
echoes through the plain
Elephant Back Safaris' Abu Camp in Botswana's Okavango Delta, welcomed a new baby elephant named Lorato, which translates to 'love.' Lorato spends her days following her mother, Kitimetse, on her daily mud baths and alongside her wanderings through the 500,000-acre area. Abu Camp researchers are observing Lorato as she develops, collecting data to further their work towards implementing a country-wide elephant conservation program.
let your hair down she says
it's  time to put some sense
to Rio de Janeiro
Though Carnival doesn't start until next month, you can already see blocos, groups of musicians and revelers, celebrating in Rio's streets. The wild-and-wonderful, can't-miss event begins February 1 and includes extravagant parades featuring elaborate floats and over-the-top costumes with feathers, sequins, coins, glitter, and body paint. The samba schools that organize these parades don't take Carnival lightly: They rehearse all year and begin making costumes eight months in advance.
Cayman Island drinking holidays
everywhere - water, beer
and our laughter
our laughter reverberates
through the sea, beer and
songs
Cayman Island drinking holidays
my tummy roars
like waves
Cayman Island drinking holidays
my tummy swirls
like waves
Cayman Island drinking holidays
the waves in my tummy
make my head swing
Cayman Island Holiday
My Bar looks more alluring
than the real watering hole
East and West Berlin
all the stones taken down
for a country to unite
Spree River
Left, Right, Left, Right
East and West Berlin
Spree River
East, West, East, West
our  boat cuts through  Berlin
Having made an incredible comeback in the last 19 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, Berlin fascinates with a rich mix of history, art, and architecture. Tour the city by double-decker bus, or see it from below street level with one of the many boat tours on the Spree River, which runs through the 'Mitte' or central district, and provides views of east and west Berlin.
lift your skirt
thump your feet to the waves
a flamenco at beach
flamenco beach
the waves
a flamenco outing
lulling me to sleep
a rolling flamenco at sea
flamenco beach
Georgia Aquarium
a giant stingray flaps its way
over my heads
georgia aquariun
shadows of fishes dart
around our body
Georgia Aquarium
mom tells child that's the thing
that killed our steve erwin
Atlanta's Georgia Aquarium
that's how you should draw the stringray
mom tells child
Great Smoky Mountains
Winding down the path too
a colourful salamander
Great Smoky Mountains
colouring our path
a multi-hued salamander
Great Smoky Mountains
he says his passion for her
would  smoulder all
Great Smoky Mountains
a puff before he adds
more white to his clouds
Great Smoky Mountains
from our horses' nostrils too
clouds
Great Smoky Mountains
monks in their brown gowns
bent in prayers
Great Smoky Mountains
a stillness like uprooted
Cherokees
Pristine Great Smoky Mountains view
misty North Carolina and
Fontana Lake
Great Smoky Mountains
we let all our worries
settle with the clouds
Great Smoky Mountains
he interposes his face with his girl
over the lovely ranges
One of the most diverse ecosystems on the planet, Great Smoky Mountains National Park boasts more than 4,000 species of plants,130 trees,65 mammals,230 birds, and more species of salamanders than anywhere else on earth. Most tourists come here for car camping, leaving 900 miles of trails and 512,000 acres of uncongested backcountry for hiking adventures. For an ideal two-and-a-half-day hike, take the Clingmans Dome Bypass Trail. Tread nimbly and enjoy the dearth of humanity and the breathtaking views of North Carolina and Fontana Lake
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park  has hundreds of miles of trails for equestrians, including the only sections of the Appalachian Trail open to horseback riders. Also, five auto-accessible horse camps make riding the Smokies even easier. More than 40 backcountry campsites also welcome equestrians.
grenada escapade
its trails take my legs
and its cove my soul
Grenada
Explore Grenada's lush interior, especially Grand Etang National Park, crisscrossed by nature trails and filled with dozens of secluded coves and sandy beaches. If you're visiting on February 7, join the celebration of Grenada's 33rd Anniversary of Independence, with a variety of festivities including ceremonies and parades.
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on I chant with the sea
seeking nirvana
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on i chant with the sea
seeking peace in the mind
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on I chant with the sea
to calm the tempest in my mind
Pink Sand Beach yoga
between the pink sand and
the blue sea, my nirvana
Pink Sand Beach yoga
on and on the sea chants too
seeking nirvana
Pink Sand Beach yoga
i sat on a pink lotus looking to
the horizon longing nirvana
Why settle for white sand when you can have a little color? Several places in the Caribbean have pink beaches, but the most iconic is on Harbour Island. The strawberry ice cream color comes from shells of microscopic marine organisms. The aptly-named Pink Sand Beach stretches most of the island's three-mile eastern shore, where sunrises are spectacular and an offshore coral reef tempers the surf.
Roatan
going bananas
on banana island
roatan island
my cigarrette smoke trails
over the dolphin jumps
roatan island
they told me to enjoy
doing nothing
roatan island
his strokes on the canvas
more breathtaking than waves
Honduras
January 6,2007: Roatán, a 40-mile-long banana-shaped island off the Honduran coast, rests in the azure waters of the Caribbean, with some of the world's best scuba diving and snorkeling. But no one will fault you if you decide to laze on one of the island's many pristine beaches and perfect the art of doing nothing at all.
Ibiza's summer
here comes a tidal wave
of clubbers
Ibiza's summer
winds and beaches could not
cool down our spirits
With summer just around the corner, partiers flock to Ibiza, the clubbing capital of the world, for its legendary Opening Parties. All of the Balearic Island's biggest clubs—like Privilege, the largest club in the world with a capacity of 10,000—throw huge bashes from mid-May to late June to kick off the season. You can recover from the blaring techno and flashing strobe lights by strolling Ibiza's rustic old town, exploring its beautiful countryside on bike, or just by lounging on one of the island's dozens of beaches
Lake Powell Cruise
between the narrow canyons
my heart leaps
Arizona
Cruise through narrow canyons sculpted eons ago by wind and water at Lake Powell, Arizona. Watch a sunrise transform rust-colored rock cliffs into a paler shade of copper and let the glass-smooth surface ease the ripples of modern life. Amenities range from luxurious (with fireplace and hot tub)   to basic (with a raft to get ashore to a secluded spot where you can make a campfire
lake tahoe
the mountains and water
take our love oath
lake tahoe
to the mountains and lake
our swirling love oath
lake tahoe
to the mountains and water
we scream our love
lake tahoe
he says he is the mountain
and she the water
lake tahoe
she tells him
still water runs deep
john tiong chunghoo
London's Marylebone
we do a quiet reunion
in the heart of the city
feeling so much closer
my wine old as the town
London's Marylebone
London's Marylebone
time stands still for us
to savour its past
see how a time warp
lifts your spirit to the occasion
London's Marylebone
a city's hideaway
be quiet it's
London's Marylebone
heart of London
well you'll see it, hear it
and taste it in Marylebone
away from the blues
we suggest
London's Marylebone
A city as big as London retains its hidden neighborhood gems. Despite its central location in the heart of the city, the thriving neighborhood of Marylebone doesn't get nearly enough credit for its small village vibe and the escape from bustling London life that it provides. With peaceful Paddington Gardens at the center, and cozy squares and neat row houses throughout, Marylebone is filled with independent cafes, homegrown designer shops, vintage markets, fine foods stores, and updated Victorian pubs.
La Samanna
the waitor helps put my hand
on hers
La Samanna
sweet air and jazz notes
weave our romance
La Samanna
romance thickens
every inch of the way
Pop the bubbly or pop the question? The first may lead to the second at La Samanna, a perennially perfect and romantic refuge in Saint Martin. This pampering, private, and luxe resort offers weeklong escape packages that include sunset cruises, couples massages, gift bathrobes, and daily breakfast. After a couple candlelit dinners on the powdery soft beach, you'll never want to go home.
boomerang
memories of australia
bounce back
Earth Day 2008
heating up, the call
to cool earth
Earth Day 2008
the call to cool earth
heats up
National Park Week
green survival
our survival
National Park Week
men, a  mouthpiece
for trees, grass, shrubs
Earth Day 2008 will present thousands of opportunities for people around the world to put the environment first for a moment, from high-minded calls and concerts agitating for action against global warming, to community-minded eco-events to clean up local watersheds or plant more neighborhood trees. U.S.-based families should also check out the kid-focused National Park Week (April 19-27) , featuring Earth Day-centric events like Yosemite's Earth Dance Film Festival as well as special Junior Ranger Days in places like Kentucky's Mammoth Cave or Maine's Acadia National Park.
nevada
we thought we were
in Paris
new orleans
city sings
katrina blues
new orleans
needed - new katrina
of builders, optimists
Outer Banks
miles and miles and miles
of the Atlantic
Outer Banks
as we walk and talk, the Atlantic
stretches and roars
Outer Banks
accompanying us - the Atlantic
creation song
Lining the North Carolina coast, the Outer Banks consists of barriers of sand 130 miles long and never more than a few miles wide. These islands serve as welcome mats to the Atlantic and all her treasures. Forage the sea for a bounty of bill fish, wahoo, and mahi mahi, or walk the wild dunes, a naturalist's playground. Close to 400 species of birds, from native Carolina wrens to wintering bald eagles, can be found here, along with otters and sea turtle colonies. Add four lighthouses and you have yourself a seaworthy destination that even a pirate like Blackbeard (a former resident)could call home.
Eleuthera Bahamas
the guide warns about a heaven
that can become hell
Eleuthera Bahamas
two thin strips of sand
to heaven, to hell
Evans Pelican Inn
from a prewar beach house
a burst of spring  laughter
Evans Pelican Inn
a prewar beach house
seals our love for privacy
Pawleys Island
an entree to the day's adventure
a yummy southern breakfast
Spring is the time to visit South Carolina, when temperatures average between 68 and 83 degrees and humidity is low. Visit Pawleys Island, one of the country's oldest beach resorts, just south of the more crowded and developed Myrtle Beach. Stay at the Evans Pelican Inn, an antebellum beach house, and wake up to a Southern-style breakfast with biscuits, grits, and crab salad. Rent a bike and spend the day exploring this tiny barrier island or lay out on its four miles of beaches.
Ramon Crater arrival
our overflowing sweat and beer
as we toast each other
Covering over 55 percent of the country's territory, the Negev Desert was once largely overlooked as a travel destination in Israel. Now, using the city of Be'er Sheva as a base for excursions, adventurous travelers can brave the unforgiving temps and discover places like Mitzpeh Ramon, a small town bordering Makhtesh Ramon (Ramon Crater) , the largest natural crater in the world.
rhapsody of the seas
my bed vibrates to the  tune
of the ship's engine
The rhapsody of the seas cruise ship was refurbished two years back (2005) . Its maiden trip was in the Caribbean sea in 1997. The age of the ship tells because as soon as the engine is on, my bed shakes a bit.  Rhapsody of the Seas now plies routes calling on ports such as Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Langkawi, Phuket, Hong Kong, Fukuoka, Seoul, Danang among others in the Asia Pacific.
Río Camuy Cave Park
taino indians' paintings and carvings
relax my sinews and muscles
rio camuy cave park
creativity is timeless
taino paintings and carvings
cutting across the time
at Rio Camuy Cave Park
taino paintings and carvings
Puerto Rico
Consider escaping the Puerto Rican sun by exploring the Río Camuy Cave Park, the third largest subterranean river system in the world. Along with guided tours of the caves—some big enough to engulf skyscrapers—you can rappel 200 feet, crawl through muddy passages, swim through an underground river, or see cave paintings and carvings by the island's original Taino Indians.
Saint Patrick's Day
the irish brothers who never let us
have a taste of their  great saint
saint patrick's day
boston drums up
its irishness
(irish brothers - missionary teachers)
The first Saint Patrick's Day celebration in the United States was held in 1737 in Boston. As evidence of the city's strong Irish influence and heritage, Beantown's Saint Paddy's Day celebration remains one of the biggest in the country. The partying begins this weekend, so grab a pint at one of the city's many Irish pubs and catch an Irish music performance. Then watch the parade on March 16 in South Boston (better known as Southie) , with marching bands, pipe bands, and step dancers from all over North America.
Santa Barbara
ripened grapes outdo
our perfumes
Santa Barbara
our perfumes lost to
the ripened grape
Santa Barbara
pressing nature's other juicy  nipples
the grapes
Santa Barbara
we tell our friends
not to wear any perfume
Santo Domingo
a dark skinned columbus
grins
Santo Domingo
a Chinese man screams
'I am Columbus'.
Santo Domingo
i look for somebody to dress me up
as columbus
Santo Domingo
in 12 blocks Columbus'
round the world dream
santo domingo
i feel the weight in the
ashes of columbus
Experience Caribbean history in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. The capital city's 12-block Zona Colonial boasts the oldest cathedral, hospital, customs house, and university in the Americas. Visit the Alcázar de Colón, the palace built for Christopher Columbus's son Diego and his wife, King Ferdinand of Spain's niece. And at the Museo de las Casas Reales you'll find an array of colonial artifacts including weapons, armor, remnants of an 18th-century Spanish ship, and (allegedly)        some of Columbus's ashes.
Shark Island
run down places echo each
of my words to my ears
Shark Island
dilipidated buildings
whisper back to me
Shark Island
i write to Hollywood to make
horror movies here
Shark Island - knocking on
broken doors of buildings
- my imaginative mind
Shark Island
you will never feel you are
alone
Shark Island
a crow nearly flies away
with my life
Travel six miles off the coast of Connemara, Ireland, and you'll reach Inish Shark—or Shark Island. A hundreds-strong fishing and farming community once occupied this small, lush isle, but after decades of tough living the island was abandoned in the 1960s. Today, all that remains are the skeletal ruins of the stone-hewn village: homes, school rooms, and a church. Arrange visits to this eerie place via the town of Clifden or from neighboring Inishbofin Island.
no barrier
corals, fishes, urchins
soaking up premier Aussie park
Summer is in full swing down under and the water's perfect for checking out the Great Barrier Reef. But ideal scuba weather means crowds, so skip the dive spots typically overrun by the day-trippers. Hop on a live-aboard dive boat for a multi-day expedition and it'll just be you, yourself, and the fish among the most beautiful and solitary coral Australia has to offer.
Cape Town
as drunken and lost
as ancient seafarers
South Africa
South Africa has 14 traversable wine routes and over 2,000 varieties of wine. While most visitors venture out to the wine country on day trips from Cape Town, you can spend many heady weeks tasting your way through the Cape, a jaunt made all the easier by outfitters available that specialize in the wines of South Africa.
South Africa's great wines
these sour grapes over
others who can drink
South Africa's great wines
fuel me to one great regret
the allergy to alcohol
st paddy's day
dublin distills its best
into our spirits
As Saint Paddy's Day nears, what better time to check out the pubs, breweries, and distilleries of Ireland? Go to Guinness' James' Gate Storehouse in Dublin to see how the famous dark stout is brewed, the Hilden Brewery in Lisburn to sample real draft ales, or the Old Jameson Distillery in Dublin to taste triple-distilled Irish whiskey. You'll be sure to find friendly Irishmen (and women)  to share in a few pints and join in on some fun and lighthearted amusement—or, in a word, craic.
St Thomas
Blue Water Sailing School
we learn to sail as well as party
If you've ever wanted to learn how to sail, here's your chance: Go on an intensive sailing tutorial aboard a luxury yacht with the Blue Water Sailing School in St. Thomas. Spend at least 55 hours of instruction in hands-on bareboat sailing over seven days. In your down time, relax with a book in your stateroom, dine on delicious meals prepared by the crew, or party with locals on famous beaches. At the end of the week you'll have earned your American Sailing Association bareboat-chartering certification.
songkran
between shivers their
roaring laughters
songkran
their warm laughters break
through the chill
songkran
the water breaks the ice
between the city folk
songkran
her lotus lamp floats out
to sea
songkran
amid the sea the lotus lamp
flickers
foreign land
roaring joy as the lotus lamp
floats out to sea
as her songkran lamp
floats out to sea
her silence and tears
Songkran
water too cleans
away bad luck
Songkran - water
laughter, and jeers
make the day
the tourists say
splash us
splash us
Songkran
he laughs 'the  bad year
is now washed away'
Thailand's traditional New Year's festival, Songkran, will be celebrated from April 12 to 15. Though Songkran involves making food offerings and participating in religious rituals, it entails one especially fun tradition—the water fight that occurs on Khao San Road in Bangkok. As it's considered good luck to splash water on others during this celebration (and it's also the hottest time of year in Thailand) , people bring water guns, buckets, and even trucks full of water to join in on the fun.
making me feel
on top of the world
the Dead Sea
lifting me up
to the top of the world
the Dead Sea
rising ala ascension
the ressurection
dead sea wonder
the dead sea
we rise a la the ascension
ressurection
dead sea unscrolls
a new chapter for
Christiandom
Dead Sea
the newspaper and me
float along
Dead Sea
the water lifts us
up to read
Dead Sea
the sun our lamp
the sea our dunllop
Dead Sea
it fends to keep us
afloat
Dead Sea
alive with
great history
Dead Sea
history keeps it
alive
Dead Sea
the scrolls give
Isaias a new voice
Dead Sea
found - scrolls that keep
God's words alive
Dead Sea
a rebirth for Christianity
in the hidden scrolls
Dead Sea
alive enough to lift
us all up
Dead Sea
and he asks
is it actually dead?
his phobia
the pilgrimage of the Dead Sea
cancelled
Reaching 1,373 feet below sea level, the shores of the Dead Sea are the lowest dry point on earth and its water is the second saltiest on the planet. Over the last 50 years, the Dead Sea has lost a third of its surface area to irrigation and hydroelectricity projects, and sinkholes have further siphoned water from the sea into underground caverns, reaching a water level dropp rate of three feet per year in 2006.
Great Wall
galloping over the mountains
boulders, rocks, stones and bricks
walking over
blocks and blocks
of China's insecurities
the great wall
my heart leaps
over the hills and mountains
the great wall
so lightly my heart lifts
over the hills and mountains
the great wall
so light it lifts over
the hills and mountains
the great wall
so lightly my mind is lifted
over the hills and mountains
great wall
it winds over hills, mountains
to the moon
to the moon
the great wall winds
up and down, up and down
great wall
it crosses mountains, hills
and two thousand years
the great wall
now you hear
only laughter
the great wall
now laughter
all over
the great wall
each step a death
- in Chin's honour
each step now a  pride
in China's honour
the great wall
his swift strokes
the great wall leaps into view
the great wall
strokes swift as chin conquests
the great wall looms onto his canvas
White House Easter Egg Roll
a bushy saddam
on one egg
White House Easter Egg Roll
in a bird's nest
a painted egg
White House Easter Egg Roll
one mama tells child
not to paint Bush
The White House Easter Egg Roll takes place the Monday after Easter (this year, March 24th)   and continues a tradition President Rutherford B. Hayes began in 1878. Children of all ages hunt for Easter eggs on the White House lawn and enjoy storytelling by authors of popular children's books, athletes, Cabinet members, and other senior administration officials; egg coloring; face painting; music; costumed Easter-themed characters; and magicians.
Turquoise Coast
the Mediterannean sighs
over a  long lost empire
Turquoise Coast
empire came and went
the sea still as blue
Las Fallas
all eyes afired as michael goes
up with the flame
Las Fallas
the fire hastily swallows up
Michael, Liza, Tom...
Las Fallas
the fire gulps up
the celebrities
Las Fallas
the fire curses and spits as it devours
the notoriously famous
Pyromaniacs unite! Las Fallas, the biggest festival in Valencia, Spain, attracts two million revelers to the city from March 15 to 19 to set things ablaze. Local communities create 20-foot-tall effigies of politicians, film, and sports celebrities, and even bullfighters—anyone of national or international notoriety—only to set them on fire during this quirky festival. Another highlight is the daily mascleta, a competition for the biggest, loudest, and flashiest fireworks display.
Vieques nirvana
the waves sweeps  back the peace
into my heart
Vieques
in the water
and wishing i have wings
Vieques nirvana
the sea sweeps through
every of my  pores
Vieques nirvana
the sea and sky fuses my mind
and body
Vieques, a small island just a short ferry ride from San Juan, delivers the ideal beach vacation. Even with its picture-perfect scenery and pristine beaches, the island does not draw crowds—visitors will find that their footprints are often the only ones in the sand. Once the sun sets, head to Island Adventures Biobay Eco-tours for a guided swim in the bioluminescent Mosquito Bay, where every splash and kick will create a silver flash in the dark water
White Mountain hike
our breathing expansive
as the mountains
White Mountain last huts
their  remoteness keeps
our feet going
White Mountain Hut
herbalist asks chef to
cook his pluckings
White Mountain
our laughters trail
the ranges
What better way to end a long day of hiking than to sit down to a hot, full-course meal? In summer, seven of the eight Appalachian Mountain Club's White Mountain Huts are full service, meaning hut crews will prepare you dinner while you relax. If you can't hit all the huts on the weeklong 60-mile route, spend a long weekend hiking to Greenleaf and Galehead, the most remote of the sky-scraping huts, which afford expansive views of New Hampshire's mountains.
vinginia beach winter
excitement of whales
heats up the air
The weather may be finger-numbingly frigid as you bob in the Atlantic, but winter in Virginia Beach is the ideal time to spot majestic humpback and fin whales during their annual migration from Canada's Bay of Fundy. Both these species are endangered, with the fin whale being the second largest animal on earth after the blue whale. Contact the Virginia Aquarium & Marine Science Center for information about whale-watching tours.
YYellowstone National Park
over the snow, echoes
of our own laughters
Yellowstone National Park
the various adventures
warm up our winter
Yellowstone National Park may not be the first winter destination that comes to mind, but it has a lot to offer. You'll quickly forget about the cold weather while snowmobiling, dog sledding, snowshoeing, ice skating, and viewing wildlife. Traveling in the colder months allows you to experience the park without the hordes of tourists that crowd the roads during summer. Get ready to have the stunning landscape practically to yourself.
the bombs have scared
the tourists away.
they too have dented
the pysche of the islanders,
making them petty rupiah pinchers.
after years pampered by tourist influx
the dropp in arrivals hits hard
at where it matters most.
now each new tourist is scutinised
with those beggary eyes
of his ability to
satisfy their private wants.
even the priests at famous hindu temples
could not hide their displeasure
at the 10,000 rupiah donation i gave.
a shrouded contempt
betrayed by those revealing eyes, look.
in the streets, the weight
of the stares of the pimps
from medan, jakarta, acheh
all over indonesia
submerged my heart in unease.
these indonesian cowboys
who too have come for the slice
of the tourist dollars
now getting smaller
throwing me women, boys, marijuana
for a kill.
one who had not sold anything
asked me to buy him a packet
of rice at a nearby stall
for 1,000 rupiah i.e.1/14 of a pound.
the more daring ones had even become crass
throwing insult like 'Why dont you bring your own? ' on my complaint of overpriced
mangosteen at 15,000 rupiah a kilo (one pound) .
at home in kuala lumpur, it is half a pound.
so much for the degradation in manners
the worse aftershock of the bali bombing.
it is spend, spend, spend
when visiting temples.
first the entrance fee, then a donation for a a sash to cover my lower body,
then another donation for a guide to lead me.
they showed me previous donations
of Euro30 and even US50 obviously by a group of tourists who chipped in a few euro each.
what a disadvantage a lone traveller i was.
they asked me to pay the same.
i protested and paid only 10,000 rupiah.
a guide who took me around the Mother of Temple at Bersaketh privately
asked for some money for his keep
as the earlier was meant for the temple.
i gave another 20,000 rupiah,
a fortune to visit the most holy shrine
in the island, the last outpost of hinduism
in south east asia, the charm, mysticism, now lost in the scramble for the tourist dollars made scarcier by terrorism.
imagine the sales girl greeting my
request for a discount for a silver shell ring met with such coldness, she threw the money into the drawer in leaving, i was specially informed by a travel agent boy there is an exit tax 100,000 rupiah (eight pounds) .
i gladly paid with the wish that
Indonesia and Bali would raise above
t
Shibuya fashion centre
Hachiko shows loyalty
a more lasting attire
friendship memory picture
at our back
hachiko
my favourite to meet
best friend
hachiko square
admiring hachiko
a young girl and
her doggie
taking picture
in front of hachiko
a girl cuddling her pet dog
Hachiko is Japan's most famous dog which has been immortalised just outside Sibuya Station. The Statue of the dog, known to have waited at the Station for years for  his master's return, has become a tourist attraction. The dog became famous after its strange behaviour was spotted by journalists and the story of his long wait for master's return from the War  published throughout Japan. He never gi ves up. He is still waiting there. Shibuya is Japan's fashion centre.
mount fuji photo session
she makes up her face as
the mountain hides its  face
mount fuji photo session
the newly wed couple wait
for the peak to show
mount fuji
like soldiers the cloud
rushes east
mount fuji
we wait for the mist to clear
for pictures with Fuji
Mount Fuji
the mist blocks us and Fuji
for the photo shot
spring mount fuji
our sighs as the cloud covers
the peak again
spring mount fuji
the thick fog as we wait
for peak to come out
oh on! the golden buddha
is at the same level
as my feet
i felt really awkward while visiting the royal palace museum as many o the sacred relics in cabinets were at the same level as my legs and feet. i somehow felt that buddha images should be placed on the upper level of cabinets.
beside the sleeping buddha
statue of a couple
corpulating
this is what i saw at a tourist spot where they sell statues of the buddhas and other stuffs. i thought this is really insensitive to the buddha and the religion. loatians should know how to give buddha the respect since it is the official religion
take a dash of light blue
and let it run into two dashes of white
that would come close to the enchanting milky blue water
of Luang Prabang's magnificent kuangsi waterfall
water cascades majestically down a towering cliff
then spreads into numerous euphoric pools
where people loosen themselves in the magical waters
an afternoon serenaded by laughters that echo between
splahses of joy and ecstacy
do you want a lady?
do you want a lady? ?
do you want a lady? ? ?
do you want a boy! ! ! ! !
manila alleyway
I travel far and wide
throughout the world to
sun lazily in aqua pools in Greece,
picnic by the the Eiffel Tower,
stroll white sand beaches on tropic isles,
fly over glacier packed mountaintops
green countrysides and floral valleys.
In an instant I am transported to
exotic faraway landscapes
without ever leaving my own chair,
my soul free to experience things
it never can otherwise.
Truly an amazing gift....
being a part of the beauty of the world
through the eyes and lens of others
right here on my computer screen.
The railroad track is miles away,
And the day is loud with voices speaking,
Yet there isn't a train goes by all day
But I hear its whistle shrieking.
All night there isn't a train goes by,
Though the night is still for sleep and dreaming,
But I see its cinders red on the sky,
And hear its engine steaming.
My heart is warm with friends I make,
And better friends I'll not be knowing;
Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take,
No matter where it's going.
I should like to rise and go
Where the golden apples grow;--
Where below another sky
Parrot islands anchored lie,
And, watched by cockatoos and goats,
Lonely Crusoes building boats;--
Where in sunshine reaching out
Eastern cities, miles about,
Are with mosque and minaret
Among sandy gardens set,
And the rich goods from near and far
Hang for sale in the bazaar;--
Where the Great Wall round China goes,
And on one side the desert blows,
And with the voice and bell and drum,
Cities on the other hum;--
Where are forests hot as fire,
Wide as England, tall as a spire,
Full of apes and cocoa-nuts
And the negro hunters' huts;--
Where the knotty crocodile
Lies and blinks in the Nile,
And the red flamingo flies
Hunting fish before his eyes;--
Where in jungles near and far,
Man-devouring tigers are,
Lying close and giving ear
Lest the hunt be drawing near,
Or a comer-by be seen
Swinging in the palanquin;--
Where among the desert sands
Some deserted city stands,
All its children, sweep and prince,
Grown to manhood ages since,
Not a foot in street or house,
Not a stir of child or mouse,
And when kindly falls the night,
In all the town no spark of light.
There I'll come when I'm a man
With a camel caravan;
Light a fire in the gloom
Of some dusty dining-room;
See the pictures on the walls,
Heroes fights and festivals;
And in a corner find the toys
Of the old Egyptian boys.
Travel!
Do not hesitate
as hesitation is leading to defeat.
Travel!
And enjoy it.
Travel through time.
Travel!
Until you find the truth,
no matter where it is hidden.
Travel!
And search for it
even if it was in the unknown.
On the road
leading from east to west.
So, we may meet there.
For the best.
singapore night safari
we go looking for lion
in the middle of city
singapore night safari
all of us longing to see
Sang Nila Utama's lion
(the man who saw the legendary
lion that resulted in singapore
named Singapura.)
singapore night safari
all the excited animals
told to keep quiet
singapore night safari
the excited animals
look for animals
singapore night safari
one excited animal forgot
the no flash ruling
The Singapore Night Safari take you through stretches of forest at the Singapore zoo where you can see nocturnal animals roaming about in the natural habitat. there are bearded pigs, sang kancil, hipopotamus, deers, tigers and lions. of course, the animals that could cause the most disturbance here are those with flashes and cameras. they had to be told repeatedly not to use flashes as that could cause the animals to become unruly, and heading for the flash.
resorts world at sentosa
a blast  for
remembrance
A group of journalists were taken to the Resorts World at Sentosa office to have a briefing on the family resort everybody is talking about these days. It is scheduled for completion in 2010. The greatest attraction will the the Universal Studiostheme park, the only one in South East Asia, and will feature 24 themed rides
some of which are tailored for Singapore. Here Singapore will also have its second casinos, owned by Resorts World International, a Malaysian company. About US44.2 billion was spent in developing the lands here, the size of 40 football fields put together. There will also be six themed hotels one of which is named after its designer Michael Graves, international shows and theatres. the surprising thing was as soon as we reached sentosa, we heard a blast. I reckoned that to be good luck. A blast to start the ball rolling for Resorts World at Sentosa. It aims to attract five milllion
visitors a year.
THE SINGAPORE I LOVE A POEM
----
the singapore i love is
when the city holds up
its clouds, playing pom
pom girls postponing
a drizzle so that the trees
in the lanes and streets
- with their intermmitent
swinging branches and
leaves - could hum songs
of  cheers to those walking
hand in hand savouring
the warmth in each others' eyes
the Singapore I love is one
modern metropolis that holds
tightly onto to its past treasuring
it like a confidante she could draw
strength and inspiration whenever
she is lost in the sea of ideas, home
or abroad,  techno or cultures,
fashion, culinary, pop or arts that
tiptoe, waltz, jive,  foxtrot, tango, cha cha,
pirouette, twirl and swirl into Singaporeans' mind
the way they still call China Town
Ngu Chia Jui (Bullock Cart Water)
which invariably transports us back to those
years when life  was tough like a buffalo's
even water was not  easy to get
rationed, and distributed by Indian
workers who everyday came shouting
water water on bullock carts
Or the Samsui Cha Bo
(women with the red headgear)
solid and strong as granite amazons
who still bow and carry
the City of Lion on their backs
The city they too helped
build  up brick by brick, sweat and tears
Or the Tekka, Tekka (below the bamboos)
they still use to call the entrance to Little India
the bamboos are no more an icon there
but how can you forget such pristine
gifts of heaven, such auspicious growth metaphors?
Singapore that has inched and risen fast as  a
million bamboo shoots to wave in reflection of its humble roots?
Serangoon, Serangoon, Little India, Little India
Even Shah Rukh Khan and Asywara Rai love
to tekka tekka here now
And Kandang Kerbau  Women's
and Children's Hospital (Cattle Coop)
well wind back Singapore 15,000 days
and you would hear cattle bleating
and Indians workers careering round your
young  smiling  pregnant  wives  or
newly  blessed babies smiling in
the warm arms of their mothers
now dont ever slight the place,
or its namesake  for this  'Cattle Coop'
has helped deliver half the city's lions
and lionesses who are all ready to take
on the world,  cattle or wolves
Lion City
our admiration tails
the greenery
two way traffic
the greenery waves back
with respect
two way traffic
greenery earns respect
for lion city
garden city
trees wave back
to the  Lions
THE SINGAPORE I LOVE, A POEM
- - - - - - -
the singapore i love is
when the city holds up
its clouds, playing pom
pom girls postponing
a drizzle so that the trees
in the lanes and streets
- with their intermmitent
swinging branches and
leaves - could hum songs
of  cheers to those walking
hand in hand savouring
the warmth in each others' eyes
the Singapore I love is one
modern metropolis that holds
tightly onto to its past treasuring
it like a confidante she could draw
strength and inspiration whenever
she is lost in the sea of ideas, home
or abroad,  techno or cultures,
fashion, culinary, pop or arts that
tiptoe, waltz, jive,  foxtrot, tango, cha cha,
pirouette, twirl and swirl into Singaporeans' mind
the way they still call China Town
Ngu Chia Jui (Bullock Cart Water)
which invariably transports us back to those
years when life  was tough like a buffalo's
even water was not  easy to get
rationed, and distributed by Indian
workers who everyday came shouting
water water on bullock carts
Or the Samsui Cha Bo
(women with the red headgear)
solid and strong as granite amazons
who still bow and carry
the City of Lion on their backs
The city they too helped
build  up brick by brick, sweat and tears
Or the Tekka, Tekka (below the bamboos)
they still use to call the entrance to Little India
the bamboos are no more an icon there
but how can you forget such pristine
gifts of heaven, such auspicious growth metaphors?
Singapore that has inched and risen fast as  a
million bamboo shoots to wave in reflection of its humble roots?
Serangoon, Serangoon, Little India, Little India
Even Shah Rukh Khan and Asywara Rai love
to tekka tekka here now
And Kandang Kerbau  Women's
and Children's Hospital (Cattle Coop)
well wind back Singapore 15,000 days
and you would hear cattle bleating
and Indians workers careering round your
young  smiling  pregnant  wives  or
newly  blessed babies smiling in
the warm arms of their mothers
now dont ever slight the place,
or its namesake  for this  'Cattle Coop'
has helped deliver half the city's lions
and lionesses who are all ready to take
on the world,  cattle or wolves
Last week as I visited Singapore I was amazed at the ubiquitous greenery on the roads and open space. It is really a garden city worth emulating. The trees especially stand tall and healthy. Their leaves sway and wave so gracefully whenever there is a breeze. They make the city so less stressful. One feels one gets  back the respect one extends to nature here
putting us solidly
on top of the sky
the Singapore Flyer
The SIngapore Flyer, SIngapore's own Ferris Wheel, is a spectacular
piece of steel frames and archworks constructed to let tourists as well as SIngaporeans a 360 degree view of the city. It takes an hour to make one round. The arches and steel frames are large and denote the amount of hardwork put into this structure meant to help tourists get the best glmpse of the richest city in South East Asia..
THE SINGAPORE I LOVE, A POEM
-------------
the singapore i love is
when the city holds up
its clouds, playing pom
pom girls postponing
a drizzle so that the trees
in the lanes and streets
- with their intermmitent
swinging branches and
leaves - could hum songs
of  cheers to those walking
hand in hand savouring
the warmth in each others' eyes
the Singapore I love is one
modern metropolis that holds
tightly onto to its past treasuring
it like a confidante she could draw
strength and inspiration whenever
she is lost in the sea of ideas, home
or abroad,  techno or cultures,
fashion, culinary, pop or arts that
tiptoe, waltz, jive,  foxtrot, tango, cha cha,
pirouette, twirl and swirl into Singaporeans' mind
the way they still call China Town
Ngu Chia Jui (Bullock Cart Water)
which invariably transports us back to those
years when life  was tough like a buffalo's
even water was not  easy to get
rationed, and distributed by Indian
workers who everyday came shouting
water water on bullock carts
Or the Samsui Cha Bo
(women with the red headgear)
solid and strong as granite amazons
who still bow and carry
the City of Lion on their backs
The city they too helped
build  up brick by brick, sweat and tears
Or the Tekka, Tekka (below the bamboos)
they still use to call the entrance to Little India
the bamboos are no more an icon there
but how can you forget such pristine
gifts of heaven, such auspicious growth metaphors?
Singapore that has inched and risen fast as  a
million bamboo shoots to wave in reflection of its humble roots?
Serangoon, Serangoon, Little India, Little India
Even Shah Rukh Khan and Asywara Rai love
to tekka tekka here now
And Kandang Kerbau  Women's
and Children's Hospital (Cattle Coop)
well wind back Singapore 15,000 days
and you would hear cattle bleating
and Indians workers careering round your
young  smiling  pregnant  wives  or
newly  blessed babies smiling in
the warm arms of their mothers
now dont ever slight the place,
or its namesake  for this  'Cattle Coop'
has helped deliver half the city's lions
and lionesses who are all ready to take
on the world,  cattle or wolves
Singapore Gallery
where we stand taller
than the island republic
Singapore Gallery
the noise of the city
also - scaled down
THE SINGAPORE I LOVE A POEM
-------------
the singapore i love is
when the city holds up
its clouds, playing pom
pom girls postponing
a drizzle so that the trees
in the lanes and streets
- with their intermmitent
swinging branches and
leaves - could hum songs
of  cheers to those walking
hand in hand savouring
the warmth in each others' eyes
the Singapore I love is one
modern metropolis that holds
tightly onto to its past treasuring
it like a confidante she could draw
strength and inspiration whenever
she is lost in the sea of ideas, home
or abroad,  techno or cultures,
fashion, culinary, pop or arts that
tiptoe, waltz, jive,  foxtrot, tango, cha cha,
pirouette, twirl and swirl into Singaporeans' mind
the way they still call China Town
Ngu Chia Jui (Bullock Cart Water)
which invariably transports us back to those
years when life  was tough like a buffalo's
even water was not  easy to get
rationed, and distributed by Indian
workers who everyday came shouting
water water on bullock carts
Or the Samsui Cha Bo
(women with the red headgear)
solid and strong as granite amazons
who still bow and carry
the City of Lion on their backs
The city they too helped
build  up brick by brick, sweat and tears
Or the Tekka, Tekka (below the bamboos)
they still use to call the entrance to Little India
the bamboos are no more an icon there
but how can you forget such pristine
gifts of heaven, such auspicious growth metaphors?
Singapore that has inched and risen fast as  a
million bamboo shoots to wave in reflection of its humble roots?
Serangoon, Serangoon, Little India, Little India
Even Shah Rukh Khan and Asywara Rai love
to tekka tekka here now
And Kandang Kerbau  Women's
and Children's Hospital (Cattle Coop)
well wind back Singapore 15,000 days
and you would hear cattle bleating
and Indians workers careering round your
young  smiling  pregnant  wives  or
newly  blessed babies smiling in
the warm arms of their mothers
now dont ever slight the place,
or its namesake  for this  'Cattle Coop'
has helped deliver half the city's lions
and lionesses who are all ready to take
on the world,  cattle or wolves
This is the place where you can see the scaled down version of Singapore city. Real life models of the city can be seen here where the
guide at the gallery uses torch light to show the spot you are actually at  in the city. It is nice to know that Singapore has several other airports apart from Chang, the rest for military purposes. The guide would also point out the large number of reservoirs in  Singapore needed to help the island republic become self sufficient in water. It is also interesting to note that much of present day Singapore city centre especially those near the harbour are built on reclaimed land.
the singapore i love is
when the city holds up
its clouds, playing pom
pom girls postponing
a drizzle so that the trees
in the lanes and streets
- with their intermmitent
swinging branches and
leaves - could hum songs
of  cheers to those walking
hand in hand savouring
the warmth in each others' eyes
the Singapore I love is one
modern metropolis that holds
tightly onto to its past treasuring
it like a confidante she could draw
strength and inspiration whenever
she is lost in the sea of ideas, home
or abroad,  techno or cultures,
fashion, culinary, pop or arts that
tiptoe, waltz, jive,  foxtrot, tango, cha cha,
pirouette, twirl and swirl into Singaporeans' mind
the way they still call China Town
Ngu Chia Jui (Bullock Cart Water)
which invariably transports us back to those
years when life  was tough like a buffalo's
even water was not  easy to get
rationed, and distributed by Indian
workers who everyday came shouting
water water on bullock carts
Or the Samsui Cha Bo
(women with the red headgear)
solid and strong as granite amazons
who still bow and carry
the City of Lion on their backs
The city they too helped
build  up brick by brick, sweat and tears
Or the Tekka, Tekka (below the bamboos)
they still use to call the entrance to Little India
the bamboos are no more an icon there
but how can you forget such pristine
gifts of heaven, such auspicious growth metaphors?
Singapore that has inched and risen fast as  a
million bamboo shoots to wave in reflection of its humble roots?
Serangoon, Serangoon, Little India, Little India
Even Shah Rukh Khan and Asywara Rai love
to tekka tekka here now
And Kandang Kerbau  Women's
and Children's Hospital (Cattle Coop)
well wind back Singapore 15,000 days
and you would hear cattle bleating
and Indians workers careering round your
young  smiling  pregnant  wives  or
newly  blessed babies smiling in
the warm arms of their mothers
now dont ever slight the place,
or its namesake  for this  'Cattle Coop'
has helped deliver half the city's lions
and lionesses who are all ready to take
on the world,  cattle or wolves
‘COME, before the summer passes
Let us seek the mountain land:’
So they called me, happy playmates,
And we left the dawn-lit strand:
Riding on till later sunbeams slanted
On dark hills and downward-plunging streams,
And the solemn forest softly chanted
Old, old dreams.
From the pass, we saw in glory
Wave on purple wave unrolled
To the cloud-encircled summit
Floating high, alone and cold:
Like that altar-stone, by men of Athens
Dedicated to the unknown God;
Waiting for some fire to touch his holy
White abode.
Then the mellow sunset dying
Passed in rosy fire away,
And the stars and planets journeyed
On their ancient unknown way.
Riders of the illimitable heaven!
Moving on so far beyond our ken,
Do ye scorn the toiling, heavy-hearted
Sons of men?
Ere we slept we heard the torrents
Rushing from that mighty hill
Join in deep melodious singing,
While the forest-land was still.
Music of forgotten wildernesses!
Would that I could hear that song again!
Song of primal Earth’s enchanted sweetness,
Joy and pain.
The other day I met a tramp
His hair was wet, his clothes looked damp
The poor man seemed hungry and cold
He must have been sixty years old.
His wrinkled face showed signs of strain
In his right hand was a walking cane,
The memory with me will long remain
Of him walking in the cold November rain.
This slender man of snow white hair
With clothes that were the worst for wear
Greeted with a curt good day
And slowly plodded on his way.
To be frank and speak the truth
I pitied one so destitute
And though it may sound a little queer
I had to fight to choke a tear.
The Winter months are harsh and long
And this poor man did not seem strong
I wonder will he see the Spring
And hear again the blackbird sing? .
As I sleep in a comfortable bed
This man will sleep in a draughty shed
Inhabited by rats and mice
On hay and straw ridden with lice.
He's no self respect or pride,
All self respect in him has died,
He lives a life of poverty
And has to beg for charity.
He knows about degradation
About prejudice and discrimination
These he meet with every day
When well offs from him turn away.
But on his journeys he also meet
People who give him money and food to eat,
His type they can understand
And reach to him the helping hand
Vagabonds are born to roam
His kind seldom have been known
To take a job and settle down
They like to move from town to town.
I pitied him he looked so frail,
His wrinkled face so wan and pale
And though I hope I'm wrong it seems to me
That Spring time he won't live to see.
Time from my mind will not erase
The memory of the poor tramp's face
Who someday soon may be found dead
In a cold and draughty shed
so much more interesting
but never exhibited - how
the ancient master crafted
from ivory the size of half your thumb
a boat that seats several persons
and on it a poem words smaller
than your pores
haiku
incredibly preserved
incredible cotton fine
centuries old ivory carving
haiku
cotton fine ivory carvings
i strain my eyes to see
how well the faces are
At the Palace Museum in Taipei are several wonders one could see.
One of these are  the unimaginable intricate  ivory carvings that make one wonder how ancient craftsmen could craft a Chinese poem with a hundred words on a space not larger than a square inch. Also
men and women the size of a few rice grains with intricate facial expressions. This writer does not encourage ivory carvings though.
a 'grand' way to remember
Yuanshan Grand Hotel?
a broken coffee cup and a
waitress who asked for money
before the guest is even done with his food
Yuanshan Haiku
Yuanshan cold nostalgia
fading at a forlorn corner
Soong May Ling's smile
The hotel must have been a sad memory for late Soong Mei Ling.  Me too. A coffee cup broke and worse, a waitress asked for money before even I finished with my food. I just wonder how an internationally known hotel can have such 'unthinkable' service. They trained them in Chiang Kai Shek's army?
.
the insects too
are trying to be higher
101 Tower
101 Tower
insects too wish to be
tallest of them all
I saw a swarm of black insects - have to find out what they are - flying outside the top floor of the 101 buildings. One of them clung to the glass. Another building taller than 101 is being built in Dubai it seems. Well we cannt blame anybody from overtaking us. Look even the insects wish themselves to be at a higher level - than the tallest buidling in the world.
babel babel babel
babel babel babel
tallest building
tallest building
Petronas Twin Towers
then Taiwan's 101 Towers
next in line, Dubai
babel babel babel
everybody rushes
to build the
tallest building
in the world
standing tall
standing bright
standing proud
but when you visit
their countries
do you find
the all important
loftiest thing of
all, the sparkling
jewels of civilisation  -
refined character'?
and culture?
people who
die to keep high
their principles?
characters
that would inspire
people
to stand tall
and proud
to greet them?
or do you hear only
babel babel babel
every corner you turn?
hardcore materialists,
opportunists, racists,
immoralists of the
highest order?
tallest building
does it equate
to all things good
builders aspire
to show to the world?
or merely diligence,
intelligence and pride
charging up the sky
for dominance?
this long awaited
taiwan visit opened
the eyes  to  the reality
behind all the hypes,
the anachronistic
traffic lights that
has withstood the
worst  of times, to shine
like the lacklustre yesteryears
myriad faded and stained
buildings that betray
the high  tech high
per capita status
overhead bridges,
with all their rough edges
wear and tear that hung over
the  heads like the 60s
and  uneven pavements
five foot ways one had
to traverse before the
majestic bamboo
tallest 101 tower
shaped to prosper
a thousand years
babel babel babel
the lofty tall order
i always look for
in a nation in every visit
how heartening
when Taiwanese women
stood tall for their nation
to help show the
way to all the
interesting spots
taipei, tainan,
kaoshiung
sun moon lake
wu fei miao
(Temple of five, Ming Concubines)
Matsu temples
confucius temples
peace parks
musuems
and how
disappointing
and dispiriting
when  arrogant men
and women
blacken their country's
corridors and doors
with needless contempt
for another asian
they thought
was an illegal worker
siphoning away their money
so glaring their
low leaning forebearance
even eating in
their restaurants
was a stomach churning
painful experience
babel babel babel
well you are bound to
bump into people
of the crassest kind
everywhere
even the a nation
with the tallest building
in the world
babel babel babel
tallest building
tallest building
does it translate
to the loftiest
things humanity
can proudly hold
up high  for all to see  -
the love for God
and natutre, the human race,
universal  peace,
trustworthiness, and loyalty?
the tallest everything
everybody longs
to see in the sky
of this materially
spiritually
crumbling world
babel babel babel
Jim Thompson House
the house too
misses its owner
my eyes run up and down
left and right
for jim
Jim Thompson House
it is too waiting for
owner to be back
Jim Thompson House
this emptiness that
the owner will never be back
Jim Thompson House
despite the visitors
the loneness in  the house
jim thompson house visit
a bird's cheerful chirp
all is up and well for him
jim thompson house
that forboding giant tree
right in front of door
Jim Thompson a former CIA agent left all in America to live in Bangkok and helped promote Thai traditional silk and woven fabric
to the West in the 60s He built a beautiful traditional house in a secluded part of Bangkok which has become a tourist spot today.
It is stocked with plentiful of Thai as well as Burmese antique buddhas, paintings, ceramic as well as Chinese Blue and  White. Jim went missing when holidaying in the Cameron Highlands in Malaysia on March 26,1967. Nothing was found of him. He left behind a string of mysteries about his whereabouts. But one thing is for sure, his house in Bangkok is swarmed daily by tourists. Jim Thompson is now a popular brand in the fabric industry.
a 20 something japanese lady ogled
the whole time at the stage, a ring
minus the ropes, large as three single beds
put together, obviously worked up by
what she had seen
on the opposite side, across
the stage,quite disturbingly -
he looked like a similar in my office who
i never liked - a 40 something accountant
sort of man,Indian perhaps, stared with his large
bespectacled eyes, their whites penetrating
the sleazy enclave, betraying his long
witheld thirst and hunger for those hard
to resist baitsnow dangling enmasse
right in front of him
on another front to my left a 40
something woman watched
with a struggled detachment,
sometimes laughing to her
companion of what were on
the stage, all the time displaying this
'this is the world and we have
to get used to it' demeanor
she could have been thatshy
woman next door when in her 20s
and i, and i, looked around in
the Patpong outlet with stage
fringed by row and row of jaunty travellers
to see if there was anyone from
hometown who would spoil the
whole show and who i knew would
pop the the same question to me
if he/she were here: 'Wow, you
are here too.'
with the excuse of charging
everyone B200 or US6 for a glass
of beer or soft drink, on the stage
bathed in neons, strobe lights,
humping bumping rock music,
suction piston cadenced jazz,
chug chug chugging lolipop pop
free wheeling waltz and jabs of
spiralling classical crescendos
well endowed men in their
youthful prime graciously
peeled and unveiled to us
Soddom and Gommorah
in all theirfacets and manifestations
If to Russia you have great need to go
There is much more buried there than snow
And Hitler and Napoleon both will tell
Casual preperation is a formula for woe
If in Russia you truly want success to show
Do not casually to Mother Russia go.
Saigon War Museum
burnt hole ridden children clothes
my heart too in tatters
At the War Museum, there were exhibits of clothes of prisoners and even those of children killed in the Vietnamese War. I remember when I went to visit the Killing Field in Cambodia, there were also exhibits of torn clothes right below the monument where they exhibit the skulls of those killed in the war. They really put my heart in tatters.
still standing tall
to inspire  -
Ho Chih Minh
every major city
either his back or his front
uncle ho chi minh
sre,
I want to go to Hongkong
In Disneyland rides I will enjoy
I want to go to Thailand
In superb beach’s sand I will stand
I want to go to Michigan
With cold snow I will play
I want to go to India
To see the famous Taj Majal
I want to go Italy
In famous love boats I will ride
I want to go to Dubai
In seven-star hotel I will dine
But why spent too much traveling
Wherein all I need is just here
Sitting beside you my baby
Gives me all the pleasure I need
20.07.06
your travel
you traveled.....and left me.....
left me alone in a dark desert,
left me between sad mountains and an empty space..
don`t hear anthing, just echo of my voice..
your love sneak away to my heart, so i loved you...
you left me, and left a volcano of craving in my heart...
left me and left my tears rain out of my eyes..
left me, and i still see your vision in my mind...
visit me all a night while i watch a stars..
my feelings light with a fire by missing you..
you left... where you left..
wish that i know...
It's said that every species in the world
displays one gift beyond the scope of Man.
How dangerous the skies - for men, and birds -
how soiled the air, if wings were in Man's span!
Suppose that every species made extinct
by Man, the guardian of all things that live,
deprived us (as indeed it may..)   by dint
of mindlessness, of something God's mind gives?
I watch the spider, humble in my praise:
self-spinning tightrope walker; engineer;
the knower of all Nature's weathered ways
and bold explorer on the winds that veer:
Nature spares the spider Man's wild mind;
should mind in Nature rest, there's more to find.
I’m no slave, yet you pit me here.
The verge of death's grave.
To sleep, weep in the mudded dirt.
You take away my body’s tattered shirt.
I’m no slave, you wretched tyrant.
You loud- mouthed, fat- bellied master.
It is not you, whom I fear, no.
It’s the Lord above, who sent me here.
He sent me to this troubled land.
To stand  ground, dig deep my soul.
It is he whom I fear  most of all.
Without him, I will never stand tall.
Take what you will, beat me as you must.
I will endure, to the Lord I give my trust.
Written:  August 25/2006
I  found a damsel in distress
Wearing  a tattered torn aqua dress
tears flowed sadly down her face
She was a picture of beauty and grace
I held her close and gently squeezed tight
I told her everything would be alright
A fallen  priest fondled and raped this teenage girl
Took away her innocence, introduced her to the real world
I was much older than this gentle creature
But I knew I could never leave her
We married and moved away from Montreal
Perhaps a new city would break the fall
She was introduced to many new friends her age
But her eyes displayed an inside rage
A dismal, dark and gloomy day
Would etch  pain in my heart to stay
Today I found my gentle, quiet dear
Hanging from our kitchen chandelier
Her mind was ruined by a heartless act
She could no longer face the gruesome facts
Now she lays in quiet sleep
In God’s hands, her soul will keep.
Written:  Dec.31/07
Always trust in God
When you need a helping hand
He will guide you
When situations get bland
Just praise his name
And continue to reach out
Never give up hope
Whenever you are in doubt
I do not allow
people
into my heart.
I do not trust them
to not
tear it all apart.
I do not trust
people
not to hurt or betray
me.
And so I protect
my heart
by locking the gate
and hiding the key.
In all of this mistrust
I can clearly see
That one I truly do not trust
is me.
butter wouldn't melt...
Eyes, soft grey blue and perfectly set
Lashes to die for
and such a clever mimic
He taped the Karate Kid
and played it so many times
he could recite every line by heart
He was only eight, too.
then one morning....
I knew it had gone
- the fifty dollar note
It was definitely in my purse last night
I remember checking
and I knew who'd taken it
What to do...
Confront and condemn?
(and guarantee more lies)
Confront with understanding?
(he's a good little actor)
Pretend I haven't noticed?
(and let him get away with it)
No way!
that night after story....
Sweetheart, I've been thinking...
What?
Well, some kids bring money to school, don't they?
Dunno...
To buy lunches and stuff.
no answer
I guess sometimes you wish you had some?
Maybe...
To buy stuff yourself, I mean...
S'pose so...
Would this help?
I handed him ten dollars
he blushed
Thanks mum
When I checked my purse
next morning
the fifty dollar note
was back
*inspired by A S Neil
An incredible force linking atoms
We want to bond with the source
Strong beliefs form a powerful tie
Our hesitations untie the course
(2008/5/4)
If only i'd understand your true intent...
but with a broken trust, was it all meant?
I always think we'd make it to the end
started believing, tried to comprehend
but here you are flaunting your escapades
completely forgotten I watched  love fades
broken trust this heart will never mend
all these pain wielded inside my head....
I am all alone,
no one knows me,
I walk close to a cliff,
Waiting to fall,
Waiting to jump
To the waters below,
Waiting for the courge
to end my hell of a life,
I have no friends,
No family,
No one to love me for who I am,
Wanting to die...
I have
taken your words
folded both hands over
then held them tightly to my heart.
Have you?
Please NOTE: in retirement I have closed most of my web pages including francesmacaulayforde and poetscornerwa. Both of these pages have now been taken over by a bot. However, I have retained my Wordpress BLOG or my ETSY shop.
Don't you trust me,
Don't you dare.
You'll soon see,
That you shouldn't have cared.
Why did you place,
The trust on my lap?
Should have let it an empty space,
And then you wouldn't have been in my trap.
You should listen to me when I tell you,
Trust me not 'cause I will disapoint.
I'll leave you all torn up and blue,
And I'll beat you trust and disjoint,
You heart as it will rust,
'Cause I will be the one,
Who betrays your trust.
And that is when your trust is done.
The trust that happens
as night to the sky
Looking into  the darkness
as  the cries of  the pain
Falling as the dew
as tears of love
And I shine in wetting
as the rain of faith in trust
as the light of faith
tunes to the faith of love
yet intense leading the love
like a rising sun in the sky
Throgh out your life you will meet people that will make fun of u behind your back.
So be smart and dont tell some people your secrets and your fears.
Becuse if you piss some one off they might tell everone your secrets and fears and they will use them  agenst  you. If u what some one to trust you you will have to trust them first so be carfull with what u tell others. Becuse they will try to piss u off. So you will mess up in life so they will try there hardest to get u upsit with your life and you will try to get killed be for your time. So dont let others control your life and do your best to succed in what you do.
HOPE
Hope is there in the beginning and the end
Hope is there when you gain a friend
Hope is a gift, a scientific break threw
Hope is what I feel when I’m with you
TRUST
Trust is a gift that we should treasure
Trust is a weight as light as a feather
Trust was not a thing I knew
Until I found trust in you
TIME
There is time to cherish
There is time to feel
But most of all there is time to heal
In God I trust
That everything is gonna be o.k.
In God I trust
& all my worries go away
In God I trust
That my family will get back together
In God I trust
& we’ll be happy forever
In God I trust
That I will have lots of friends
In God I trust
& I won’t be lost again
In God I trust
That he will change my life
In God I trust
& it will be like paradise
Before this body turns to dust
Before this world I leave
Upon The Lord I’ve placed my trust
Upon The Rock I’ll cleave
I’ve placed my trust in Jesus Christ
God’s Son of flesh and bone
The innocent Lamb sacrificed
I trust His word alone
I trust He chose for man to die
Then rose again to reign
That as God’s Seed He’d multiply
His flock when born-again
I trust His blood can cleanse the soul
I trust His blood can save
His very name can make us whole
And save us from the grave
I trust in Jesus’ loving care
I trust He bore my shame
I trust the love He came to share
Remains today the same
I trust the pardon Jesus bought
Can save this wretch from hell
I trust Salvation’s true report
My Saviour had to tell
Although the devil’s out to harm
Though Satan’s he’s out to kill
I trust my Lord’s almighty arm
I trust His righteous will
I trust my life to Christ The Lord
I trust in Heaven’s Door
I trust in God’s Almighty Sword
I’ll trust Him evermore…
I trust in my faith
Because I have faith in God
And at the same time I believe in God
Before this body turns to dust
Before this world I leave
Upon The Lord I’ve placed my trust
Upon The Rock I’ll cleave
I’ve placed my trust in Jesus Christ
God’s Son of flesh and bone
The innocent Lamb sacrificed
I trust His word alone
I trust He chose for man to die
Then rose again to reign
That as God’s Seed He’d multiply
His flock when born-again
I trust His blood can cleanse the soul
I trust His blood can save
His very name can make us whole
And save us from the grave
I trust in Jesus’ loving care
I trust He bore my shame
I trust the love He came to share
Remains today the same
I trust the pardon Jesus bought
Can save this wretch from hell
I trust Salvation’s true report
My Saviour had to tell
Although the devil’s out to harm
Though Satan’s he’s out to kill
I trust my Lord’s almighty arm
I trust His righteous will
I trust my life to Christ The Lord
I trust in Heaven’s Door
I trust in God’s Almighty Sword
I’ll trust Him evermore…
I trust you father to provide
a path for me to walk, ...
and wisdom to ignore the fools, ...
let them laugh and let them talk
I trust you father to instill
a roadmap for my life
that steers me towards the rightous few
and spares me pain and strife
I trust you father to remind
me of my own free will,
that pitfalls lie within my path,
that I must climb uphill
I trust you father to accept
that sometimes I grow weak,
and thrist for waters of this world,
and other love I'll seek
I trust you father to forgive
my sins in Jesus' name,
and when I die my soul will rise,
and salvation I can claim
I trust you father
As I look into your eyes,
Lay within your arms,
I wish you would take the pain away,
Just wash it all away.
I trust you, more than I believe in myself,
I trust you, more than words can say,
Faster than the wind can sway,
I trust you.
When we sit together and think,
I know a lifetime can pass away in a blink,
Do you know, the world is spinning round,
But my head is still on the ground.
Will you believe me if I say,
Your the one for me today,
Your the closest to heaven that I can see,
Believe me when i say you mean the world to me.
I'm sorry you don't trust me,
i wish,
i wish you could,
it hurts me to see you this way,
just trust me please just trust me,
i wont leave you,
i wont abandon you,
just trust me is all i ask.
I know you've been hurt before,
abandoned in all ways,
your spirit tells me of a story,
of much harder days,
i know its hard for you right now,
but i love you just the same,
i know your distrust was partially my fault,
and I'm partially to blame....but just...
Trust me,
because.i.
Love. you,
and there is nothing in this world,
that could change me,
you know how i do :)
So just trust me,
i wont let your words fall on deaf ears,
and i promise to keep you in my heart,
right here.
please....
just finally..
after all this time.....
please...
trust me....
Just trust Him when  you can't see,
Just trust Him and believe
For He is with you through your shadows of doubt.
He is with you and will bring you out.
Just trust Him, when the loneliness chills,
Just trust Him, and follow His will.
He will surround you with blankets of love,
He will whisper from the heavens above.
Just trust Him and You will find
That He carries you through the storms of time.
Just trust Him and finally be
Free
As He lifts you up
And helps you to soar
higher and higher.
You are not alone.
Lean upon the Lover,
As you walk through the desert.
Lean upon the Lover,
Trust in Him alone.
For when you lean on Him,
You learn to see
How things are meant to be.
He carefully guides you by still streams
And brings you through valleys low,
Until you know and discover
The depths and the heights
Of His great love.
Monday, January 31,2005
Know God
Trust God.
When you pray
And it seems
That God is not
Answering your prayer.
Think on His ways
How He wants you empowered.
How He wants you spiritually blessed.
Know God
Trust God.
Remember He loves YOU.
And your adequacy
To know how
He chooses to bless
And answer your prayer.
Is so far
Beyond your comprehension.
Know God
Trust God.
God always answers you
Better than you know
How to ask.
Your asking is never equivalent
To His answering.
For His answering
Is always beyond your request.
Know God
Trust God.
His blessings are always
A continuance to your prosperity.
You may ask for one thing
But God wants you fulfilled
He gives you two.
To multiply anything of itself
Gains you nothing.
Know God
Trust God.
For in search of His answers
You may find the blessing
You hoped for
And the one you really wanted.
But then look again
You will find the very thing
Which was all you really needed.
Know God
Trust God.
God always blesses us
Beyond what we ask.
For neither we the intelligence
Nor the aptitude
To even guess
What He will do for you.
Live for what you love
Love what you trust
Trust what you live for
OR
Live for what you trust
Trust what you love
Love the way you live
OR
Live your life to the point of no return
Love the world for what it's worth
Trust those closest to your heart
Love is trust
even when it comes to lust.
That feeling of butterflies
dont make up for all your lies.
You lose the trust when you cheat
it makes me feel defeat.
Trust in love
because its as rare as a dove.
When we get in a fight
in the middle of the night
dont tell me that you love me
that doesnt make everything all right.
Love is Not sex
expecially when its in a text.
Phone sex dont count
I hardly know what its about.
Screw your fondling
it dont do a damn thing.
Love is sticking together
no matter what the weather
Love is holding me tight
in the middle of the night.
Someone you love should
be someone you trust. Not
who want lust. Someone make you
happy inside and out. not someone
who make you sad and leftout. Someone
who care about you and like's to do what you
want to do but you have to do the same too.
That my peom i did my best so now i must rest.
Bottomless pits.  There's on in Castleton,
and stout upholders of our law and order
one day thought its depth worth wagering on
and borrowed a convict hush-hush from his warder
and winched him down; and back, flayed, grey, mad, dumb.
Not even a good flogging made him holler!
O gentlemen, a better way to plumb
the depths of Britain's dangling a scholar,
say, here at the booming shaft at Towanroath,
now National Trust, a place where they got tin,
those gentlemen who silenced the men's oath
and killed the language that they swore it in.
The dumb go down in history and disappear
and not one gentleman's been brough to book:
Mes den hep tavas a-gollas y dyr
(Cornish-)
'the tongueless man gets his land took.'
Never trust a lobster,
He may have a charming smile
But underneath he's ruthless
And saves everything to file.
The sea and sand and sunshine
Will have you feeling good
And trusting everybody -
But are you sure you should?
Prawns and shrimps keep secrets,
Mermaids never tell
But lobsters love to gossip
(And they make things up as well) .
Crabs give you sidewise glances
And might seem quite aloof
But you can trust them at a pinch,
They very seldom goof
But never trust a lobster.
I did - now look at me
In Davy Jones's locker
At the bottom of the sea.
_________________
Never trust a woman.
When will I learn this rule?
Each time I let my guard down
I'm left looking like a fool.
They look right at you smiling
pretend to be your friend
secretly recording every word
to repeat like there's no end!
They smell vulnerabilities.
They sense you will confide
your deepest, darkest secrets
and then you'll want to hide...
They sneer with twisted lips
and glowing eyes of hate.
You never saw it coming
this turn your ''friends'' call fate.
They run in packs like wolves.
They'll eat your weakened soul.
Don't turn your back on one of them
or you'll have to pay the toll.
They'll wait till you are comfortable
then hit you in the knees.
They use your heart against you
and do just what they please.
I won't say that it hurts.
I've been hurt too much before.
It takes more than betrayal
for me to cry and hit the floor.
I need to heed my warning
and remember when I say...
Never trust a woman
cause her claws don't go away!
like I said there’ll be no proliferation to renounce
your faith you once treasured as a guideline to surpass your qualm
to uphold your trust. prohibit it from analytical presumption of proclaimed
indifferences, should you obliged to uncertainties, memorializing the
sovereign of one’s intimacy, then you’d be free to choose the paramount
desires of desires to be desired, and to agree with an open heart that the desirable isn’t
a pleasure but sometimes a measures to measure one’s inadequacy.
Im scared to trust now.
I had my trust broken many times before.
I was left a broken girl.
I still am broken inside.
I simply cannot trust.
Its not you its me.
My trust cant be broken again.
So dont ask me to trust
Cos I cant do it.
Im to scared to trust
SMALL is the trust when love is green
In sap of early years;
A little thing steps in between
And kisses turn to tears.
Awhile - and see how love be grown
In loveliness and power!
Awhile, it loves the sweets alone,
But next it loves the sour.
A little love is none at all
That wanders or that fears;
A hearty love dwells still at call
To kisses or to tears.
Such then be mine, my love to give,
And such be yours to take:-
A faith to hold, a life to live,
For lovingkindness' sake:
Should you be sad, should you be gay,
Or should you prove unkind,
A love to hold the growing way
And keep the helping mind:-
A love to turn the laugh on care
When wrinkled care appears,
And, with an equal will, to share
Your losses and your tears.
God is Faithful and God is Just, God is someone you can trust.
When in a trial simply be still, as God works out His Perfect Will.
He is God and from the start, He’s working to prepare your heart.
When you are tried, you will see, God is molding you for Eternity.
The Lord our God is loving friend, and concerned about our end.
Fear not which way He takes, for God above makes no mistakes.
And It cannot be your concern, when God’s Will you can’t discern.
If your path takes a sudden turn, He may be helping you to learn.
God may take you to a place, that you need His Awesome Grace.
When you do not understand, with your heart just trust His Hand.
When His Hand seems to depart, you can always trust His Heart.
Christ will not forsake you friend, He’s here to see you to the end.
The Lord is taking us one by one, down a path to reflect His Son.
And God fills us along the way, with Christ’s likeness day by day.
So as we travel this path of life, we shall shine for His Son Christ.
You can trust in Christ Jesus, for He indeed shall never leave us.
I trust in the One who died for me, so that I could live for Eternity.
My trust friend is in my Creator, Who is now my Lord and Savior.
Who can know or love me more, than Jesus Christ our dear Lord?
To get to Heaven it’s a must, that in The Lord you place your trust.
How could you not trust the one, who chose to give His Only Son,
To a dying world as a sacrifice, so men could inherit Eternal Life?
Why would I choose not to trust, the One who chose to die for us,
So through His death I could be, with Christ my Savior Eternally?
Have trust in God and things will turn out right;
Have faith in God and mountains melt like ice;
Have trust in Him- temptations you can fight;
Have faith in Him and Life will become nice.
Have trust in God for He can do all things;
Have faith in God who solves problems we can’t;
Have trust in Him who selects Leaders/ Kings;
Have faith in Him who feeds Ants /Elephant.
Have trust in God for He is our Friend true;
Have faith in God who remains always near;
Have trust in Him who brings the rain and dew;
Have faith in Him who is our Father dear.
Have trust in God who is so kind yet terse;
Have faith in Him who rules the universe!
7-1-2003
Dedicated to most revered D.G.S.DHINAKARAN,
JESUS CALLS MINISTRY, CHENNAI, INDIA,
On his birthday by Dr John Celes
When shattered seems the Lamp of Life in me;
And broken lies the glass-mantle of fame;
My body's wick too half-burnt and sadly;
Heart's fuel gone, in hopelessness and shame!
I ponder if these are my earth's last days,
As weary lie my spirit and my will;
While Death's cold-sneer is laughing at my face;
I feel miserable, so extremely ill!
The God in me goads me to carry on;
For earth's verdicts are not infallible;
New Hope could come with every morning's Dawn;
Nothing to God is ev'r impossible!
I continue to live as God demands,
He holds my hour-glass and its falling-sands!
The God who brought you up to this extent,
Has other plans for you in future too;
So, never doubt his mysterious intent;
He does what’s best and when ’tis time for you.
Go, put your trust in God and do all things;
The future is promisingly brighter;
There is no better choice for us, earthlings;
God makes our earthly burdens seem lighter.
So, pray with all your mind and soul and heart;
God is ready to help His loved creatures;
Just do your duty; God will do His part;
Love your enemies; pray for your preachers.
Give God His rightful place; nothing goes wrong;
And if it does sometimes, sing Him a song.
8-29-2002
God helped me wade through problems galore but,
My thoughts are pessimistic to the core;
I live in luxury: Yet, want a hut!
I wonder what the future has in store!
The tougher part of life’s journey seems o’er;
I long to have reprieve prolonged in time;
I yearn to be a regular Church-goer!
Lord, Usher in a favorable clime!
The future looks fearsome and depressing!
The Lord who stood by me will not fail me;
He knows when to bestow a great blessing;
My human heart and mind appear wary!
I trust in God and move full steam ahead;
Despite life’s thorns, God gives a rosy bed!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 3-25-2006
"Trust love even if it brings sorrow.
Do not close up your heart."
"Ah no, my friend, your words are
dark, I cannot understand them."
"Pleasure is frail like a dewdrop,
while it laughs it dies. But sorrow is
strong and abiding. Let sorrowful
love wake in your eyes."
"Ah no, my friend, your words are
dark, I cannot understand them."
"The lotus blooms in the sight of
the sun, and loses all that it has. It
would not remain in bud in the
eternal winter mist."
"Ah no, my friend, your words are
dark, I cannot understand them."
Because I've eighty years and odd,
And darkling is my day,
I now prepare to meet my God,
And for forgiveness pray.
Not for salvation is my plea,
Nor Heaven hope,--just rest:
Begging: "Dear Father, pardon me,
I did not do my best.
"I did not measure with the Just
To serve my fellow men;
But unto levity and lust
I loaned my precious pen.
I sorrow for the sacred touch,
And though I toiled with zest,
Dear God, have mercy, in-as-much
I did not do my best.
"I bless You for the gift you gave
That brought me golden joy;
Yet here beside the gentle grave
I grieve for its employ.
Have pity, Lord,--so well I know
I failed you in the test,
And my last thought is one of woe:
I did not do my best."
Now is the time for mirth,
Nor cheek or tongue be dumb;
For with the flow'ry earth
The golden pomp is come.
The golden pomp is come;
For now each tree does wear,
Made of her pap and gum,
Rich beads of amber here.
Now reigns the rose, and now
Th' Arabian dew besmears
My uncontrolled brow
And my retorted hairs.
Homer, this health to thee,
In sack of such a kind
That it would make thee see
Though thou wert ne'er so blind.
Next, Virgil I'll call forth
To pledge this second health
In wine, whose each cup's worth
An Indian commonwealth.
A goblet next I'll drink
To Ovid, and suppose,
Made he the pledge, he'd think
The world had all one nose.
Then this immensive cup
Of aromatic wine,
Catullus, I quaff up
To that terse muse of thine.
Wild I am now with heat;
O Bacchus! cool thy rays!
Or frantic, I shall eat
Thy thyrse, and bite the bays.
Round, round the roof does run;
And being ravish'd thus,
Come, I will drink a tun
To my Propertius.
Now, to Tibullus, next,
This flood I drink to thee;
But stay, I see a text
That this presents to me.
Behold, Tibullus lies
Here burnt, whose small return
Of ashes scarce suffice
To fill a little urn.
Trust to good verses then;
They only will aspire,
When pyramids, as men,
Are lost i' th' funeral fire.
And when all bodies meet,
In Lethe to be drown'd,
Then only numbers sweet
With endless life are crown'd.
This is the story of the total trust
You gave me and I lost
I was a bad thing
I never used to think
More than once I dropped
And you helped me on my feet up
And then again I didn't care
And walked in that very same dark track
You pushed me to show me the light
And that there is a better track
Straight, bright and no one can dropp in it
In front of you I walked in it
But still the dark was what I wished
You saw me walk to the light
You gave me your total trust
You never thought I'll go back to the dark
After I knew that there was light
But too bad I did
You somehow saw me in it
And all the trust you gave me I lost
Because you saw me dropp again
But it was a bigger drop
You told me help yourself out
This time I really regret
But you said to late
You've dropped
And only you can help yourself out
Because if I help you
You'll return back to it
That very dark scary track
And here I'm begging you
To help me out of it
And you'll see me in that light
Never wanting that dark life
Please help me out
And give me Ur forgiveness
After I take Allah's.
You say you love me, and I want to believe again.
We said I do, in better or worse, that was not true.
When I look in the mirror all I see is a lie and hurt.
I go to sleep in pain, I wake up in pain.
When I am not near you I wonder, I hate this doubt.
I had trust, I had faith in us. I gave, you took.
This is not what I thought marriage would be like.
I thought you were the one person,
I could laugh with, talk with, cry with.
I thought we had it all, And now its cold and dark.
Once the trust is gone, do we ever get it back.
I hate this, I hate this feeling of not being enough.
I always thought love was enough,
I finally opened my heart and soul,
Perhaps that's what life is all about,
All about the people you hold close,
And the time they will betray you.
Suzy Skoda
tell me why
should not i cry
just tell me why
all my life
like a dream passing by
they all say
give it another try
tell me why
i dont want to live but still i try
i dont want to die but still i try
no one is there for me
but one thing gets me going
the sweet innocent smile
it says oh come on
dont you dare to die
the hope is still alive
come on lets be together
lets give it a try
i cant live for ever
then why should not we try
lets be together
lets give it a try
why should not we love each other
why cant we just give it a try
oh come on all you people
if not then tell me why?
Trust begets trust
Politics not at play
Today is same
As yesterday.
Drink in the moonlight
Gazing into the lake.
Like Han Shan,
Write poems
On forest bark.
Like J. D Salinger,
Find yourself in mystical privacy.
Like Hafiz,
Trust God to dig your art.
Deep trust in God—for that I still have sought
Through all the grim doubts that bemock the soul,
When in the amazement of far-reaching throught,
We list the labourings that for ever roll
Like dubious thunders through those clouded regions
Where night and destiny the counsels keep
Of Time developing his shadowy legions.
And when I ve stood upon some hazardous steep
Of speculation—heaving up its bare
And rugged ridge high in the nebulous air
Of endless change, and thence tremendously
Throwing its shadow, like a blind man’s stare,
Out through the dread unknown—deep trust in Thee,
O God! Hath likewise been my refuge there.
You do all you can, to make it on your own
And you need someone, will feeling all along
God will bring you through the storm and the rain
Just keep you head up high, and the sun will shine again
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Hold on Tight
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Everything will be alright
Life can get hard, but you made it this far
If you trust him, when theirs noone else around
I know this, because I lost my way
Just keep the faith, because tomorrow's another day
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Hold on Tight
Just Trust in Him
Believe
Just Trust in Him
Everything will be alright
God will pick you up, when trials come your way
It may seem hard, you can't make it through day
That's when you just have to say
Please Restore Me, When I Pray
Just Trust in Him
Just Trust in Him
Just say it's o.k
Just say o.k
Trust in me
Trust in me
Because I am
Your God
And you all are my children
That I had created in my image
trust in me
cause i know the pain
trust in me
cause i know the cold nights
trust in me
cause i know the lonliness
trust in me
cause i know my heart
trust in me
cause i know my soul
trust in me
cause i know what i give
trust in me
cause i know who i am
trust in me
cause i know what i want
trust in me
cause i know i can trust you! !
555
Trust in the Unexpected—
By this—was William Kidd
Persuaded of the Buried Gold—
As One had testified—
Through this—the old Philosopher—
His Talismanic Stone
Discernéd—still withholden
To effort undivine—
'Twas this—allured Columbus—
When Genoa—withdrew
Before an Apparition
Baptized America—
The Same—afflicted Thomas—
When Deity assured
'Twas better—the perceiving not—
Provided it believed—
Trust in man was lost today
Trust in man that is never quite regained
Trust was lost when you started to betray
Trust was lost when you didn't care enough to say
Trust was lost when you used me as your social play
Trust was lost when you hurt me in front of family and those that used me as prey
Trust was lost when you denied me of my greatest day
Trust was lost when you ignored my loves and hates
Trust was lost when you borrowed and never repaid
Trust was lost when I gave and you treated me as a slave
Trust was lost when I cared and all you wanted was pay
Trust was lost when I loved and you treated me as the fool
Trust was lost when I had a great passion and you treated it as a ration
Trust was lost when I looked in your eyes and saw the truth, but you continued to lie
Trust was lost when I asked you to help and you never even tried
Trust was found and everything turned around
When I lowered my head and looked up to the Masters stead
Trust was found and with it came the sound of the beginning to an eternal round
For on that day trust was found
Trust becomes sound, only when man looks around and realizes that
The only trust to be found is in him-self and the one that gave us ground
TRUST WAS FOUND!
trust is me telling the truth.
trust is you believing me.
trust is me not being afraid.
trust is you not making me.
deep down within, i hope real hard
deep down within, i scream and shout
deep down within, i cant help but cry
deep down within, i think theres no way out
for what once had has now been lost
for that i blame myself
for childish as this thought may sound
for that long gone i sorely miss
trust we had so long ago.
trust which i destroyed.
trust is what we need again
trust to make us strong
all i can give is a simple word...sorry
all i can give is a simple thought...happiness
alli can give is a simple emotion...love
all i can give is a simple thing...my heart
i just need you to forgive me...
without you i have nothing i want to give
for rohan {19th October,2005}
Trust is
A light that shines in your eyes
Bright and flickering
As a candle in the breeze
Trust is
The brown sparkles
Shone through all
Like stars at nightfall
Trust is
When you cheer me and keep
Me laughing through tears
Better then anyone
trust is
Making me feel like Marilyn
Whilst I feel like
Liza Minelli on a drip
Trust is
Everything I feel with you
Everyday in love
Always
That is what
Trust
Is
The accusers do what they have always done best!
Find someone to blame for their own mess.
Get others to agree to their false charges.
People find in time that they have been duped.
But then it becomes too late to make amends.
And this is how making fools of others begins.
And instead of getting offended,
People like this end up call themselves...
Either allies or friends.
With trust issues they pretend do not exist!
Love is what we all search,
Search in  heart of others
We all want to be loved
Want to be raised up among others
Time is what we all need
Need to get self pleased
Pleased so that we can love each other
Want to be raised up among others
Trust is what we all seek
Want to be trusted and to be believed
Trust is better than love
Trust grows up with time spend with others
Trust need both time and love
And for me it’s better than above
So trust is what we all search
Search in  heart of others
But trust yourself first
So that you can be trusted among others
So trust yourself to become happy
Get happy So that you can be loved
Loved so that you can be trust
Trust is what we all seek
For all peace..
For all love..
For all pleased..
Trust is a traitor.
Oh! You're asking why?
Search and you will discover
That trust once told you a lie.
Trust got me in a cab,
Took me to a downtown shrine,
His priest ready to stab,
To drain and drink my blood like wine.
Trust put a gag over my mouth
Made me perjure as to my whereabouts,
Just to lure me to his den
With nobody knowing my where and when.
Trust took me like Isaac
Placed my innocent conscience on a pyre
To melt my ego like plastic
But alas flames divorced his fire.
Trust came back to seek my face,
With his guffaw reduced to a tear;
And now so out of place
Is an emotion that I once thought dear.
Trust me with your pain
I promise I'll take nothing in vien
Trust me with you heart
I promise I'll never part
Trust me with your soul
I promise I'll never let you go
Trust me enough to let your guard down
i promise it'll only make me love you more
Trust me and
I promise
What have I done to lose your trust?
Can you please explain to me...
Why is it that you seem to think
I'm trying to break free?
I don't yearn for my freedom.
I feel free in your arms.
Don't let those thoughts control you.
I'm aware of all lifes harms.
You'll never be forsaken.
I'll always remain true.
It hurts me when you don't believe...
I'm forever loving you.
I feel the pain you're feeling
but, I am not to blame.
It's just jealous emotions.
I love you just the same.
I won't give in to jealousy.
You know me way too well.
My loyalty won't falter
surely you can tell.
You don't need to be worried
of things you cannot see.
You gained a wife forever
the day you married me.
I knew the truth about me
Without any facts
I knew things would turn
Bad luck always comes back
I fell for the lies
Thinking someone could care about me
Still I didn't feel right
Until things become clear
Before you, I was sad and dejected
With you, I almost started to smile
Because of you, broken by picture
Trust me, I've been here
I let myself fall
Trust me
Nobody loves me at all
The worst is over now
I make myself bleed
My mood doesn't let me feel pain
But blood is everywhere, just like rain
I'm going away now
Trust me, it's for the best.
Why does your heart grow doubtful dear?
Tense and beating, full of fear.
I keep with me your everlasting love,
and bless the day God sent you from above.
You remain my angel and I feel that I must,
tell you that within you, you have my trust.
My love is the tide, your soul is the shores,
you have my heart, do I have yours?
I'll belong to you till the very end,
and you will forever stay as my lover and friend.
It has been so good like this from the start,
so darling please, trust me with your heart.
Who Can You Trust?
Who Can you trust in the world today?
Your friends?
They'll be just as trifling as your enemy
When you are stuck at a dead end
Who can you trust in the world today?
Your blood?
Blood is thicker than water
Don't let this be your rule
By this same rule was I fooled.
Who can you trust in the world today?
Your instructors?
Their job is to teach not to care
Your problems will appear just as thin as air.
Who can you trust in the world today?
Those who inforce and carry out the law?
This is where the world tears
They should be the ones we fear
Who can your trust in the world today?
Don't put your emotions up on a shelf
Trust no one but yourself!
This
Is good advice.
If you trust
Too much too early
Prepare to be raped entirely.
Oh we've been there.
Well and truth, been there.
Got away sometimes
Formed a better plan
Made more sense of it all.
You're fucking wide.
Your fucking wife is a whore.
She just jumped on you like a predator
Bore you kids may be.
But she just sat on you
Because you were the best thing about at the time
Now she roams free
And because you are so weak
She'll wear down her chances
And circle right back to you
You will let her
Because you have no balls.
Trust no one.
I never have.
Even the parents that bore me.
I love them
But total trust
Never give them.
Trust no one.
Out there are many
Who love to prey on innocence.
To steal the wallet that opens too easily.
To pry out the change even the smaller sides.
trust is a very big word
you think you know that person
but do you really know them?
you think you can trust your bestfriend
but you turn around and they stab you in the back
you think you can trust that special
persont but they do the same but black mail you
you think you can trust your family but
they lie and stab you in the heart
you think you can trust everybody but
really you dont know who to trust anymore
so dont trust any one any one at all....
can i trust the love of my life
or will she leave me to die
will she help me
or will she leave me
can i trust a person unlike myself
yet like myself to the heart
yet i can not part
is she trust full
with my life
even in this troupled life
To trust someone means you trust them with your life
To trust someone is based on your clarity of judgement
To trust is to believe that the person has you 100%
To trust
To trust
Who could you trust in your greatest moment in need?
Who will be worthy of having your trust?
Will you be able to confide your trust among certain people?
*Advice - Put your trust in a person who isn't a backstaber, liar, thief, gossiper, negative influence, pressured person. Think before you act
will you trust me when I gone
will you trust me if I left you alone
will you trust me if I told you I love you
will you trust me  if I say I never let go
will you trust me if I let it show.
will you trust me if  I cast away your worrise
will you trust me or you just let go cause this is
somthing I need to know.
Will you trust me if I say i need you
will you think everthing is true.
Trust is something
we all must feel
when working anywhere.
As soon as employers
loose their trust in everyone
careless then begins.
You will always find bad apples
no matter where you are,
but as soon as you tar
everyone with the same brush.
You begin to loose the loyalty
that people crave so much.
30 May 2008
Note: This poem was written to grab the attention of the so called Captains of Industry. Whose turnover of employees might be going to excess. Take heed to what I have written here.
DVH
A spin
of color.
Imagination
magnified.
A whirl
of sound.
Belief
transformed.
he used to love you so much,
slowly, when u said you hate to rush,
yes, he followed all your decisions,
to recognize the flow you follow,
so that he can love you the way you wanted,
with a pure heart, without any bad intentions.
you were very lucky to have had fallen in love with him,
cuz every second you spend with him, he counted,
cuz when you're with him, all the grey clouds are nowhere to be seen,
cuz when giving you his everything, he never hesitated.
you and him, started out wonderfully,
so perfect that people was so envy of your relationship,
everybody, even your best of friends you thought you could believe,
spread rumours that caused you to trust them more than him,
he was so dissapointed even though he loved you, it seems.
you slapped his face for something he didn't do,
then he ran back to his home and cried cuz thinking of you,
he thought you trusted him as much as he did,
he thought he had loved you as much as you needed.
at the end, you found out that the rumours were untrue,
sad and worried that he will hurt himself,
you drove so fast in hopes of finding him,
but suddenly, a huge and fast truck, you ran into,
and the last thing you saw was his beam.
you let the memories fade away,
but that was what he always hope not to happen,
he still misses you until today,
and hopes to see you then in heaven...
What is trust?
Who can we trust?
Can we trust our loved ones?
Can we trust each other?
Do we need to earn trust?
Can I trust you with a secret?
Can we trust our police force?
Can we trust our political masters?
Can we trust what we hear?
Can we trust our eyes?
Can we trust the camera to never lie?
Is trust very important to you?
Without trust what do we have?
Can we trust our landlords?
Can we trust our children?
Can we trust our friends?
Without trust, there can be no friendship.
Without friendship, there can be no trust.
Do you trust me?
Is trust the most important factor in a relationship?
I trust that you will forgive me this one time
Trust, earned or lost
Do you have it from the beginning
Do you earn it
Does it take long
I think trust in earned and lost
It must never be questioned
For questioning trust is questioning your friend
If you have to question your friend did you ever really trust them to begin with
If trust is lost, will you ever get it back
Will you ever be close to that person again
Will you ever hear their secrets
How will it ever be the same
They might not ever fully trust you
I know how this feels
I have lost people’s trust many a time before
Why on earth don’t they trust me
I wish they did but I understand
Trust is but a word
But it still has meaning
Trust is a feeling
Thats always worth achieving
Trust is a must
Yes I know that ryhmes
Trust is trust
It shows your mine
I always will trust you
I hope you can do the same
Because my trust for you
Is fueled by the love you have
For me
Trust me now I have to say
Like breaking dawn creeps into day
Like rainbows chase the pot of gold
Like thoughts as words need to be told
Trust me like there’s no tomorrow
Hold me close and let no sorrow
Come between us now and ever
Let us always stay together
Words I’ve spoken place no blame
But words untold say just the same
Conviction to be held and frozen
In your mind for ever chosen
Trust me now and take this poem
To your heart not as a token
Blessed am I for knowing you
I am forever trusting you.
This one is for my dear friend - who knows who he is!
How can I trust someone if that someone has broken my trust,
My heart is empty,
Its cold as ice,
As it reach to break,
It leaks out of water,
That water drips and slips away,
That trust,
That moment,
All within those you have broken,
I may not trust you or your friends but that don’t mean we can’t be friends,
Just friends without that trust,
You have to work your trust with me,
You have to make me understand why should I ever trust you again,
You have to repair that broken trust,
You have to work hard,
That don’t mean be hateful towards me,
Just show me that I can trust you once more.
This poem is dedication to Mr. Michael Woods A.K.A Big Mike
I trust you with my mind, so teach it.
I trust you with my heart, so love it.
I trust you with my feelings, so talk softly to them.
I trust you with my body, so be gentle with it.
I trust you with my inter-most being, so pray for it.
I trust you with my love, so cherish it.
I trust you with my life, so protect it.
I trust you with my trust, so don't abuse it.
Trust is when i believe you...
turst is when i love you..
sometimes trust is scary...
and trust makes one worry...
but i trust you baby..
soo don't be sad, but be happy...
sometimes its hard to believe...
but when my trust in you comes through, oh what a relieve...
most importantly, your trust in me...
you always make me see...
that in the end of the day...
i shouldn't believe in hearsay...
i trust you...
I tried to write the perfect words for you
Still sometimes I just don't know what to do
What I go through isn't a matter of doubt
or wondering if I'm in love
I believe that trust is the only thing that can make this work
Because without a hundred percent we're bound to get hurt
I think you do trust me but it's not all there
so I wonder if you're in love
Because to trust in someone with every trace of your being
Without seeing or hearing or even fearing the worst
Looking through what hurts to just put all your trust in me
and without that it's hard for me to believe
That this will last eternally
Now don't get me wrong and certainly don't count me out
Without a doubt I have so much hope and I trust that
You will trust in me eventually. maybe you just don't see
That your trust is all I need.
We had trust, but I blew it
I said things I didnt mean
Said I'd do things I had no intention of doing
But intentions dont matter when trust has been smashed.
Words can hurt even without actions
But can my actions repair
The hurt done by my words?
I want to say Im sorry
I want to show you Im sorry
I want to regain your trust
I want you.
Chugging train at a station stops
Passengers hop
Passengers Shop
Baggage is dropped
In dingy passages darkness gropes
Meandering through some clammy slopes
Trust delivered on time in tranches
Like autumn’s bare branches
Balancing act at the stop
String of tears water a crop
Another time another sop
One more shop
Whistler signals carry you on
On the fly another pawn
Another dawn
Frenzied throes of compulsive lust
Blocked by trust?
Blown to dust?
Not just…stay!
But no on the trodden, well worn way;
another stop if I may!
Gloom beset and gathering doom.
Cannot you be in a shared room!
Its just…only a lonely tomb
Trust is but a bubble thing;
a silent burst, just a hollow ring.
Baleful swallow in a cemetery twitters.
Profane an hushed silence glitters.
No more views an no more cues.
Time to alight an pay your dues
(Islamabad)
(May 01,2009)
I trust the night
I trust the stars that shine
I trust the moon
I know its love’s divine
I trust the wind
I trust its winding ways
I trust the sky
I know its separate days
I trust the dawn
I trust its rising light
I trust the sun
I know its blinding sight
I trust the clouds
I trust the crimson waves
I trust the things I love
I know that this trust saves Me.
Trust not one
when you want your work to be done.
Trust God
even when He shakes a nod.
Don't trust your eyes
they may tell lies.
Trust is sacred
but not hatred.
'Trust' is a five letter word
but its as sharp as a sword...
trust....why should i trust when i lose trust in everyone
everyone i trusted has betrayed my trust
i feel as if trust is but a word with no meaning
why should i trust someone when they never believe me
they say they trust me but its just a stupid lie
WHY O WHY should i trust when nobody trusts me
trust is like pregnancy
either u trust someone
or u dont
thts it
u cant partially trust someone
and partially not
Take a look inside my heart
Look deep
The truth will be clear
I'm terrified of you
My trust has been broken before
I couldn't shield myself from the pain
But, are you different
Will you be the one to make it alright
Please forgive me for this
I can't trust you
Even if I wanted to
Prove to me you're real
Show me you're true
Tell me you'll always be there for me
Maybe I can put my trust in you
I want you, but can I trust you?
The things you say excite me,
but I’ve heard them said before:
sweet words dry up too soon,
replaced by shouts and threats.
I want you, but can I trust you?
The way we touch excites me,
but I’ve known that touch before:
caresses stop too soon,
fingers curl into fists.
I want you, but can I trust you?
The love you give excites me.
What is this love
that accepts me for who I am,
that allows me to grow,
to blossom,
to be me,
without fear,
without pressure,
without limits?
Is this real love at last,
or are you a fantasy,
a better liar than the others?
I am so sore, so scarred, so scared.
Be gentle with me.
One day I may learn to trust you.
For now, you’ll have to trust for both of us.
But I want you.
TRUST thou thy Love: if she be proud, is she not sweet?
Trust thou thy Love: if she be mute, is she not pure?
Lay thou thy soul full in her hands, low at her feet;
Fail, Sun and Breath!--yet, for thy peace, She shall endure.
Trust trust many have found
Trust trust no where around
Trust trust is what many say
Trust trust here i lay
Trust trust in my ear
Trust trust i cant find you my dear
Trust trust is hard to find
Trust trust are you apart of mankind
Trust trust im calling to you
Trust trust please give me a clue
Trust trust i need my love
Trust trust she came from up above
Trust trust what do i do
Trust trust do i believe my boo
Trust trust am i right
Trust trust please show me the light
Trust trust your driving me crazy
Trust trust your just to hazy
Trust trust i will find you
Trust trust i will never find anew
Trust trust help me out
Trust trust cause with this love i dont want to wipeout
Trust trust sarah's is my heart
Trust trust she's a beauty of art
As when love eternal as flowing
Dazzles blue by the faith of truth
deeper yet ripples either
And transcended by the bliss
as mystery of love as the myth
When yet reasoned by the rainbow
as revered by the faith of God
All placid into the trust
Seems by the trust intense alone.
the lonely ship when floats in night
in the midst of deep sea in its direction
taking all its fathom by the depth
reeling by the waves in its room
as it happen when does as intoned
fizzles by the fear when fledged
in the mute corridors of silence
as the eternal swing as in spring
neither from impulsion it smacks
nor by the compulsion it glues
but by the inner whispers it blooms
as latching on to the one another
yet unknown to the mortal glance
as reviewed from beyond and beneath
As the clouds come raining the grins
over the greens slushig the sorrow
I wonder why hurt exists but then think
'Yeah its good it does exist...! ! '
Since life is not always fair to all us humans
We need to be prepared to face the bad that comes
Sometimes dreams shatter, wishes remain unfulfilled
Yet we need to stay focused to accomplish what is not reached....
Its not bad to fall down but yes it is when you refuse to get up
Rise up and face the truth this is most difficult which many dont follow up
Some wonder whether what they are doing is right or wrong
But i guess we must leave this to God and keep working all along
When everything seems unclear and no ones around to hear you
All you need to know is the 'SELF' that lies within you.....
You yourself have the strength to make things really work
Correct the wrong and be focused only on your work
Dont lose hope when you find yourself at lost
You 'Yourself' can make changes in all measured cost
Then you will realize what lies within you
TRUST YOURSELF in all situations and it will surely help you..! !
After G-d, trust yourself the most.
Believe in yourself more than in others.
Always be confident, but forever humble.
Know who is who and what is what.
Close friends are the critical ones.
Gold has its value,
But life is priceless.
Stones are precious,
But never more than a parent's love.
Each day attempt to unlock the door to wisdom
With the key that is your mind.
Be comfortable with yourself,
And you will never be alone.
so many things are said,
so little of them done,
yet trust me?
so hard to do,
please do not say that,
it hurts more,
than any truth could,
you have ruined,
my trust in people,
my trust in friends,
say what you mean,
say it to my face,
do not play those little games,
because;
one day you will,
take it too far,
and i will snap back,
and trust ME,
you will not get up.
To counsel my estate, abandoned to the spoil
Of forged friends, whose grossest fraud is set with finest foil;
To verify true dealing wights, whose trust no treason dreads,
And all too dear th'acquaintance be, of such most harmful heads;
I am advised thus: who so doth friend, friend so,
As though tomorrow next he feared for to become a foe.
To have a feigned friend, no peril like I find;
Oft fleering face may mantle best a mischief in the mind.
A pair of angel's ears oft times doth hide a serpent's heart,
Under whose grips who so doth come, too late complains the smart.
Wherefore I do advise, who doth friend, friend so,
As though tomorrow next he should become a mortal foe.
Refuse respecting friends that courtly know to feign,
For gold that wins for gold shall lose the selfsame friends again.
The quail needs never fear in fowler's nets to fall,
If he would never bend his ear to listen to his call.
Therefore trust not too soon, but when you friend, friend so,
As though tomorrow next ye feared for to become a foe.
For wet-nosed welcomes and four-pawed hugs, none
Can match the dog. Fur-bound coat, eyes so wide
And velvety melt our  heart and, 'will' gone
We most willingly succumb.  Keen to hide
Our love affair, we fake a careless style
And tone our voice to suit, but when tail wags
As if to break while greeting us, we smile,
Even when there's muddy floor, bedraggled
Dog just glances at us wistfully.  More
Than that, a quiet whine, defined as
An apology is all we need.  As for
Two-way trust it grows, and if by chance passed
Over for a newer canine pal, our
First love pines, two-way trust declines, then dies.
A dog's love is of moment and of now.
That's all the canine heart can feel applies.
Thus, well or sick, lonely or in pain, fairly
Constant, man's best friends let us know they care.
T - Truth
R - Respect
U - Unity
S - Sincerity
T - Togetherness
Your sayin' I should trust you,
But can you please tell me what is trust,
For a lie can reach so far,
Just for people to become what they must.
Best friends going against you,
Jealous and try'n  to pull you down,
And just a couple years earlier,
You  swore a friend is what you found.
Men and women cheating,
Breaking each others hearts,
Abusing one another,
In all different parts.
I find it hard to open up,
And even if I say I do,
Deep down inside,
I will never trust you.
Not because of who you are,
Not 'cause your a boy or a girl,
I just see it not right to love,
When you get no love from this world.
I will always prefer to walk so-lo,
Dealing with ash or with dust,
I will never risk getting a broken heart,
Untill you answer what is trust.
trust is not like sword delaying
somewhere overhead
(of damocles or other, praying
for release from dread.)
nor crouching tiger poised to ravage
unsuspecting prey.
trust is never quite so savage
as to  act this way.
nor like some zealous guard on duty
anxious for a crime.
nor jealous ever is of beauty,
never out of time.
but trust is true abandon knowing
quite beyond a doubt
no boundaries beyond which going
love be found without.
and finds it's utter freedom measured
not in proof - but rest.
and needs no guarantee that treasures
won't be repossessed.
like carefree children at the ocean
dancing in the waves,
trust is liberty in motion.
nothing is more brave!
Who can I trust with my deepest secrets?
Who can I trust when my world falls apart?
When everyone's lying and deceiving
Who can i trust with my heart?
Should I trust no one but myself?
To keep my life I must be circumspect.
Keeping quiet, telling no one but God,
He already knows the effect.
I'll never believe the people again,
The people who have hurt me once before.
The saddest part is I'll never be trusting
Of anyone any more.
How can I be certain that I won't be hurt?
How could someone hide themselves so well?
When everyone's lying and deceiving,
How can anyone tell?
since when weren't you there?
what was I to do
whos my friend
whos not
I guess I just don't know
anymore
I'm hurt
and sad
but you don't care
you just forget about me
block me out
of the picture
just tell me you don't like me
not infront of my so called friends
it'll hurt me anyway
but
I have to know
just one thing though,
who do I have to trust?
What have I lost that
He doesn’t understand?
My trust in him.
Emotionally
Sexually
Mentally
Physically
Financially
Socially.
I can
No longer
Trust him
With my dreams.
Without trust
What is left?
Ask me now
The eternal question -
What is Love?
And I will tell you.
Now I have lost it,
I know what it is ….
Love is being able to
Give your total trust
Without fear or hurt. –
And if someone
Truly loves you,
They will trust you
Equally in return.
I can now see
It is a long time
Since he really
Loved me.
Suppose the Greeks were right –
that, though some of us
may seek to climb Olympus
(the rocky scramble exhilarating
in the moist fresh morning,
the scent of coffee, baking bread,
rising from the valley below,
the occasional shout of shepherd to his dog,
up higher, the tiptilt goats surprised,
and then the mist, the thinning air,
the inner urge, ambition
fading, as humility, surrender, grow)
that all of us, fully although seemingly  in some degree,
yearn for the True, the Good, the Beautiful,
perhaps not in that order, or at least at first,
and believing or not believing
that ultimately, we may know the state
when in their glory, all these three
might merge, be indistinguishable;
for this, no climb is needed, since
the gods - the Greeks were sure of this -
dwell ever in our hearts; at rest, but
waiting for their call, or ours,
to show us to ourselves, and bursting forth
in what we recognise as enthusiasm..
but for those who love to climb,
who love the view, the upper air,
the risk, the challenge and the sport -
the topmost crags surmounted,
the scree no longer playing its game
of snakes and ladders with our feet and  hearts and minds,
the clouds like a white, concealing mystery,
now below us; the gods invisible to ground level eyes
run eagerly to greet us in our hearts; we now
pure oxygen for the others still visible
through  breaks in the white clouds of poetry,
climbing on their way; our hearts breathing pure oxygen for them
saying yes the climb is worth it,
the Greeks were right.
Imagine yourself -
yourself, to imagine –
this dream; dream
this imaging:
the water’s so far, far below
it’s beyond this dark imagining, this dream;
all your attention is required
by this rope bridge,
swayed by nature to some immediate, vibrating laws
of this way, that way, more complex
than steel or concrete bear in mind –
five lines of rope, that’s all,
bound from time to time
but only every few and fearful steps
so that they do not part
unless you tread without remembering
all five of them; toe, heel, as you place your foot…
and now it seems, in the illogical
precision of this dream – which is in
league with some dark inner truth
and so, it must be walked – now,
it’s not five ropes, any more,
but five strings of some instrument
vibrating, low and high; while tense, taut mind
looks for firm frets to tune each step;
or can you trust their tuning?
is the tuning now the fingers of your feet?
each fallible or faulty foothold
will send its string’s own warning of uncertainty:
this bass string, booming failure between the valley’s two high cliffs;
this treble string, nerve-searing scream of pain;
ahead, this firm support that holds the strings, now
drops away; the hollow soundbox that’s all space,
all sound, all air, all touch and light and flow of sound;
the sound of judgment’s stern and justly-tempered final chord –
now you awake: relieved, yet with a question,
born of night, to be resolved by day;
what does the dream tell to the waking thought?
what does the waking thought tell of the dream?
some metaphor for life inhabited your dream;
some knowledge passed, wrapped in a metaphor;
you only know, that it was watched – by whom?
Waiting for the train, listening
to the blackbird singing
across the railway line
I whistled a musical game with it
of call and response,
variations, show-off riffs;
the blackbird listened,
held its head a little to one side,
crisply hopped onto the iron rail
and I thought myself mighty clever
as we played our musical game, and
it flew across the line, a few yards nearer,
swiftly, with clear intention
onto the platform two yards from me
and the whole world turned on me
as I realised I had no idea
whether it was playing at
blackbird makes friends with man
or whether it was planning
a swift dart at this rival’s eyes
and I felt humble, stupid, ashamed, and yes scared,
to have intruded in this blackbird’s life;
stopped whistling, turned away
and pretended it was just a game,
knowing now
it wasn’t.
'The British elections are not firing the voters,
since they don't trust politicians any more...'
cor stone the crows!
as we used to say in the days
when  we could distinguish a crow from a lyre-bird...
blimey, knock me dahn wiv a fev-ver!
now if they called it
The National Bribery Competition
it might liven things up
and reconnect politicians with
truth
This bloody poetry writing - it's like rock-climbing -
who asked you to, anyway?
who needs it?
why can't you be just like everyone else -
admire the mountain from afar,
Olympus, Parnassus, whatever, what's in a  name?
its cap of snow, the way you often can't see the top
for mist; like romance around truth.
Homer at the top saw gods - shall you?
But no -
it's a fine summer morning
and you get the urge to see the view from the top;
well fine, but that's not enough for you,
no going up the standard route for you, oh no,
you want to be the first to get to the top by
a new route never attempted before...
so there you are an hour or two later, at the grassy foot
safe in your skin and about to risk your life
(and your reputation, you conceited little man)
and off we go...
the rockface, truth itself (and did you give a single thought
to how that was built, or who might have built it?)
and you with this tiny, hot ambition;
but take it calmly now, word by word, or you're in trouble
and it's a banal climbdown for anyone to see and read.
and it's not as if anyone is going to appreciate
the difficulty of your climb
without doing it themself; and taste the exhilaration,
the selfish, lonely, glorious exhilaration
as you gain the top, and gaze at the heart-stirring, breeze-blessed view
as if you are for those few minutes before other thoughts creep in,
the master of your universe...
but beware, even the climb down you now face
back to the plains of everyday
may be a sterner test - humility may even
cross your mind, as you recall each step
that that same rockface of the truth
that challenged all your skills to master,
saved your life every step,  by its every ancient crack and crevice
so conveniently provided by nature and those millions upon millions
of seashells that built this truthful mountain...
and now, you're back on the level plain of everyday -
are you going to keep it quiet, or tell the world?
'Look, there's the mountain I climbed! ' 'Yes, I saw it
in the paper - how's the wife? ' And though
it'll be recorded in the books, the later editions will point out
that yes it was the first, but that was before the first
girl did it by that route, the first child,
the first man did it barefoot,
the first blind man did it from memory...
yes you'll feel good, yes you'll feel a bigger man,
yes you'll be a better climber for it,
yes your fellow climbers
will treat your name with respect,
yes they'll read it in the books,
but they'll never know, unless they try it,
how it felt at every risky step,
the holds you didn't take for caution's sake
on that rockface of truth,
what went through your mind or got blotted out.
But you'll know. And that's enough for you.
Personal satisfaction. And the hope
that your book about it will touch others,
even sell well. Your heart's in it -
what more can you ask?
This bloody poetry-writing.
I read a rare truth
in the news today
no evidence has been found
of any misdeed on the part
of the politician
well that's all right then
some may ask
how hard did they look
Tic, tac, and we move
to that place of lesser resistance,
where inertia rests,
and there is no danger.
Places with our names written on them.
We think they are the things we love,
our lullabies.
But dreams chase us,
they wear costumes,
they call us “ liar ”, “coward”.
They shout our misery.
They are beasts waiting
for their freedom
or their banquet
under our pillows
A brave face can certainly be misunderstood.
Too soon lonely in the darkness of the night.
Afraid, crying, hurting out of sight.
No one knows how hard one must fight.
Brave they are to those around them, trying
not to break the silence of what is really
haunting them. A pillar of strength for all to be
in awe, when deep inside there is a flaw.
They walk with dignity for all to see, but
oh too soon will fall to their knees
Sobbing uncontrollably, with such anxiety.
Quivering, not wanting to mix with society
Out of their shell, they crawl in early morn
To show a facade that can be adored
The truth must not prevail, what life really
does entail.
Their fear of truth must never be told.
It is a secret, hidden deep within the soul.
The bearer will endure much pain and sorrow
and ponder of hiding again tomorrow
Written   October 12,2005
In younger times, A boy was I
I loved the earth and loved the sky
an innocent of times gone by
an infant to the world
I grew up strong and grew up fast
and soon a youth with little past
but felt that all was in my grasp
the world could do no wrong
Developing my social skill
became a favourite of the girls
I plunged in deeply to the thrills
the world was mine alone
I sought stability at last
and settled down from hectic past
with marriage vows and bankers draft
a new world would be born
The time was spent before I knew
the marriage gone the children grew
aquaintances now just a few
the world had surely changed
In older times, A man am I
I love the earth and love the sky
an innocent from times gone by
to face the world alone.
Once on a time, the ancient legends tell,
Truth, rising from the bottom of her well,
Looked on the world, but, hearing how it lied,
Returned to her seclusion horrified.
There she abode, so conscious of her worth,
Not even Pilate's Question called her forth,
Nor Galileo, kneeling to deny
The Laws that hold our Planet 'neath the sky.
Meantime, her kindlier sister, whom men call
Fiction, did all her work and more than all,
With so much zeal, devotion, tact, and care,
That no one noticed Truth was otherwhere.
Then came a War when, bombed and gassed and mined,
Truth rose once more, perforce, to meet mankind,
And through the dust and glare and wreck of things,
Beheld a phantom on unbalanced wings,
Reeling and groping, dazed, dishevelled, dumb,
But semaphoring direr deeds to come.
Truth hailed and bade her stand; the quavering shade
Clung to her knees and babbled, "Sister, aid!
I am--I was--thy Deputy, and men
Besought me for my useful tongue or pen
To gloss their gentle deeds, and I complied,
And they, and thy demands, were satisfied.
But this--" she pointed o'er the blistered plain,
Where men as Gods and devils wrought amain--
"This is beyond me! Take thy work again."
Tablets and pen transferred, she fled afar,
And Truth assumed the record of the War...
She saw, she heard, she read, she tried to tell
Facts beyond precedent and parallel--
Unfit to hint or breathe, much less to write,
But happening every minute, day and night.
She called for proof. It came. The dossiers grew.
She marked them, first, "Return. This can't be true."
Then, underneath the cold official word:
"This is not really half of what occurred."
She faced herself at last, the story runs,
And telegraphed her sister: "Come at once.
Facts out of hand. Unable overtake
Without your aid. Come back for Truth's own sake!
Co-equal rank and powers if you agree.
They need us both, but you far more than me!"
O ME, man of slack faith so long!
Standing aloof--denying portions so long;
Only aware to-day of compact, all-diffused truth;
Discovering to-day there is no lie, or form of lie, and can be none,
but grows as inevitably upon itself as the truth does upon
itself,
Or as any law of the earth, or any natural production of the earth
does.
(This is curious, and may not be realized immediately--But it must be
realized;
I feel in myself that I represent falsehoods equally with the rest,
And that the universe does.)
Where has fail'd a perfect return, indifferent of lies or the truth?
Is it upon the ground, or in water or fire? or in the spirit of man?
or in the meat and blood?                                    10
Meditating among liars, and retreating sternly into myself, I see
that there are really no liars or lies after all,
And that nothing fails its perfect return--And that what are called
lies are perfect returns,
And that each thing exactly represents itself, and what has preceded
it,
And that the truth includes all, and is compact, just as much as
space is compact,
And that there is no flaw or vacuum in the amount of the truth--but
that all is truth without exception;
And henceforth I will go celebrate anything I see or am,
And sing and laugh, and deny nothing.
Now here’s a short poem
that I oft thought of showing.
A bit of a lark,
or a thing of the dark?
Above all an admission of truth.
Now I’ve joined you all here
for less than a year.
On this journey so dear,
of poems diverse and astute.
Of feelings sublime that sometimes do rhyme.
Of anger and angst, or a grievance to hoot.
Well I have to admit
that I sometimes do dream,
of the style and the wit,
to make you all swoon, and to gasp,
with each brilliant line that I’ve writ.
I think to myself in a self centred way,
what have I to say that can give,
you all an experience, you’ll never forget.
A verse so sublime
that never with time
will it loose its importance.
Not even in death!
Well if I find it I’m sure
you’ll be the first to endure
the full force of its eloquent depth.
But until then and for now the best I can do
is this sorry attempt, at a poem with serious intent.
And if it cannot aspire to set you on fire,
I hope that at least you’re content.
And perhaps, well maybe, you have to admit,
there’s a poem, or two, you wish you had writ.
If you believe in God
God must have made us all
Out of whatever God is
Unless God borrowed something small
From some other God, perhaps a friend of his
Or, he may have had a brother or a sister or two
Though this is unlikely and probably not true
Because it would mean, that he was in that case
Just one of  two or three Gods out there in space
Raising the question of who was there first
Where did the others come from?
Perhaps near Chislelhurst?
And then one could ask, where did the others go?
But that's a very difficult question to answer, you know
Which means in the end  you surely must perceive
If you believe in one God
He is in you and me
For whatever God is
You is a part
(Actually, ... I think, ....he lives in your heart)
Bloom could the cherries no more,
The haste that burdened,
Made visionary the sight,
Restrictions frequent but pure,
Had not known,
The cold bare winter tree,
That stood all day long,
To which history had shared the secret.
Once it happened so,
A bird wingless sought shelter too,
For the black ghosty witch had entered,
And into the button staid eyes,
The irony lay, the heart shivered,
Till the fear traveled and made cold the bones,
The weighty burden was carried,
Until downloading lightened the shoulders,
The sky shone making the air sweet,
And the lips smiled with the curves of joy,
All was seen a rare truth of dependent history.
Every king I've seen
Seems to me a corpse
Every palace I've seen
Seems to me a graveyard
There are angels' gloves
Blood bathed
Still all these are glazing
As innocent as a child's smile!
The Universe is God
You did not know?
They do not tell
The Universe is God
All within it too
Including You
Including You
The Universe is God
To God we are as senses are to us
Yet we don't see
See that we are part of he
Or she
Read that again
More carefully
My heart is a yellow bird
Praying for a mate
In a summery dawn fountain.
Love is fragile kindness
Kissing a lovely woman’s hand.
The poet's lyre afire responds to braid
heart's comfort to art's artistry at play
Truth Beauty, Beauty Truth John Keats would say,
Endymion, reflection which won't fade.
Beauty through the eye's beholder made
an echo of eternity which may
shine well beyond the veil where night and day
frame shadow-shapes that slip away, afraid.
Beyond time's rhyme shines Beauty as obeyed
are pattern codes diverse as snowflakes fey,
each unique however short their stay,
yet each to each conjoined as love, light weighed
Between life's lines as silk skein all adore,
Beauty's theme whose waves wash timeless shore.
Modest maiden bashful blinks,
blushing beauty cream the rose
regrets for envy's icy snows
cannot compete with light that links
across time lines as life-force flows
to ransom Time while Brahma winks.
Beauty spans life's cycle spinning through
word, deed, and act, both outer, inner, form,
may, drawn though space, enchant, and thus inform
the common mortal magic must ring true.
Beauty spirals through straight lines to cue
into life's circus circle, shine and storm,
night, day, rest play, surpass codes cuniform.
All may show glow's flow, flow's glow, renew
kaleidscope eternal which we knew
we knew before, will after know, as norm
is superceded by sensations warm
that swarm within, outside sin, rise, fall, coup
de grâce as grace folds mantle over all
reflection, echoes soul's perfection call.
Quite often sweet lies,
Almost every one likes
And a blunt truth
Leads one to wrath.
Every one, guilt-free,
Any time, wants to be.
So they resort to lies,
To cover their faults.
'Me, the thorn pricked, '
Thus, the thorn is blamed,
And not the one stepped
O'er it, enroute, unnoticed.
'My Lord, a coin you spare, '
Prays a beggar to a miser,
Praising him as a donor
Just to fill up his hunger.
'Oh, you're a source of joy'
Says a henpecked hubby
Facing her usual fry
That makes him almost cry.
Can he stay with his wife,
Peacefully under one roof?
Lie comes to his rescue here,
For him to live sans any fear.
A lie saves a nation sometime,
Be it diplomacy, its other name.
One can lie to save a life
From falling into a strife.
How many lies under an oath
Do come up to cover the truth
In His Lordship's Court,
To save a guilty from guilt?
Thanks to all the sweet lies
For saving many battles
And keeping all souls happy,
Under the cloud of hypocrisy.
Birds have no consciousness of doom:
Yon thrush that serenades me daily
From scented snow of hawthorn bloom
Would not trill out his glee so gaily,
Could he foretell his songful breath
Would sadly soon be stilled in death.
Yon lambs that frolic on the lea
And incarnate the joy of life,
Would scarce disport them could they see
The shadow of the butcher's knife:
Oh Nature, with your loving ruth,
You spare them knowledge of Dark Truth.
To sad humanity alone,
(Creation's triumph ultimate)
The grimness of the grave is known,
The dusty destiny await . . . .
Oh bird and beast, with joy, elance
Effulgently your ingorance!
Oh man, previsioning the hearse,
With fortitude accept your curse!
Know the Truth, it will set you free, Christ is that Truth, and It is He.
To know the Truth is personally, do you know The God of Eternity?
The real truth is more than fact; it is Our Lord, who is coming back.
Today are you free in The Truth, or will you see His strong reproof?
This Truth that you come to know, goes with you wherever you go.
Will you have Truth by your side, the very day after you have died?
And this Truth that sets men free, also helps the blind men to see.
Did you receive the sight to see, the only Truth that rules Eternity?
When you see The Eternal Truth, you will be Christ’s living proof,
That God truly sets men free, as a changed man is what men see.
They’re freed from a darkened past, given a freedom that will last.
Freedom offered to both you and me, in Christ through all Eternity.
Christ is the only Truth you need, in this life to be set free indeed.
Do you have this freedom friend, that in Christ Jesus will not end?
His freedom always brings peace, even as other freedoms cease.
Will all your earthly freedom end, when you see our Savior friend?
God’s plans never fail my friend, as Satan learned way back when.
Are you still under Satan’s guise, or has Christ opened your eyes?
God sent the Savior Jesus Christ, as the freedom men need in life,
Will you embrace The Truth and be, free in Christ for all of Eternity?
(Copyright ©03/2006)
Emotions Run Deep
Deep In The  Valley Of Pain.
I fear the pouring of  rain,
radiating deep within my soul
an emotion I can not hold.
Deception Ends
Peering into the depth of darkness,
leaving the light of stars behind.
Fearful moving in the wrong direction.
Life’s quality was that of deception.
Let the truth begin
Skeletons hidden in the closet.
fills ones mind with uncertainty.
Release all evil lurking within.
Embrace love, let the truth begin
(April/2007)
I was so tied to play this game
I never found my situation without pain
Why you put me in?
I thought that we are all to blame
I'm the man from the outside
People think that I'm a stupid guy
I'm a good player in the other game
But why now I feelany shame?
Why you try to put the wheel on the ship?
Why you want to make the unkonws to believed?
Just face to truth
And we'll know what we lose
If you and I could make it better
Let me back to my space
On the start line of my red life
I will rebirth...
...
The world let me down
Should I change it all
Or back home?
...
A man always half to success and half to fail
As God is truth,
And truth is God,
The truth about God
Is that truth cannot lie;
And lies cannot become the truth,
For, God is truth,
And truth is God.
Copyright by Dr John Celes 4-27-2008
If truth in hearts that perish
Could move the powers on high,
I think the love I bear you
Should make you not to die.
Sure, sure, if stedfast meaning,
If single thought could save,
The world might end to-morrow,
You should not see the grave.
This long and sure-set liking,
This boundless will to please,
--Oh, you should live for ever,
If there were help in these.
But now, since all is idle,
To this lost heart be kind,
Ere to a town you journey
Where friends are ill to find.
Lies are told by those too scared,
too lazy, or too naive to tell the truth.
But predominantly lies are told
by master manipulators who seek
to conquer others exploit divide.
Enlightened souls must tell truth
in cause truth risk all truth defend.
Written at Fourteen Years of Age.
Where, lovely Goddess, dost thou dwell?
In what remote and silent shade?
Within what cave or lonely cell?
With what old hermit, or unpractis'd maid?
In vain I've sought thee all around,
But thy unfashionable sound
In crowds was never heard,
Nor ever has thy form in town or court appear'd.
The sanctuary is not safe to thee,
Chas'd thence by endless mystery;
Thy own professors chase thee thence,
And wage eternal war with thee and sense;
Then in perplexing comments lost,
E'en when they would be thought to show the most.
Most beautiful when most distress'd,
Descend, O Goddess, to my breast;
There thou may'st reign, unrivall'd and alone,
My thoughts thy subject, and my heart thy throne.
In d'una chiesa sopra a 'na piazzetta
Un po' ppiù ssù de Piazza Montanara
Pe la strada che pporta a la Salara,
C'è in nell'entrà una cosa benedetta.
Pe ttutta Roma quant'è larga e stretta
Nun poterai trovà cosa ppiù rara.
È una faccia de pietra che tt'impara
Chi ha detta la bucìa, chi nu l'ha detta.
S'io mo a sta faccia, c'ha la bocca uperta,
Je ce metto una mano, e nu la striggne
La verità da me ttiella pe certa.
Ma ssi fficca la mano uno in bucìa,
Èssi sicuro che a tirà né a spiggne
Quella mano che lì nun viè ppiù via.
English
In a church, in a small square
Shortly after Montanara Square [2] ,
Along the road leading to the salt-works,
As soon as you enter there's something holy.
In all Rome far and wide
You could not find something as rare as that.
It's a face of stone, which tells
Who is a lier and who is not.
If in the mouth of this statue, which is open,
I insert my hand and it does not clasp it,
Consider my truth as most reliable.
But if a lier inserts his hand
Be sure that, push or pull,
That hand won't come out.
Truth is always truth no matter its disguise.
Somehow the foolish understand
much better than the wise,
That love is all and love is true
and Love is All of God.
And that is all we need to know
till we're buried 'neath the sod!
(Copyright 11/30/05)
Loving in truth, and fain in verse my love to show,
That She, dear She, might take some pleasure of my pain,
—Pleasure might cause her read, reading might make her know,
Knowledge might pity win, and pity grace obtain—
I sought fit words to paint the blackest face of woe,
Studying inventions fine, her wits to entertain,
Oft turning others' leaves, to see if thence would flow
Some fresh and fruitful showers upon my sunburnt brain.
But words came halting forth, wanting Invention's stay;
Invention, Nature's child, fled step-dame Study's blows;
And others' feet still seemed but strangers in my way.
Thus, great with child to speak, and helpless in my throes,
Biting my truant pen, beating myself for spite—
"Fool!" said my Muse to me "look in thy heart, and write!"
My life was based
on masking the truth,
not allowed to express feelings
buried throughout my youth.
'Don't tell others
what goes on behind closed doors, '
still masking the truth
and developing sores.
As time passed,
as time always does,
what was masking the truth,
still is, as it was...
I'm not talking about
telling big or even little white lies,
I'm tallking about masking pain
through silence and lying eyes.
If all this seems too confusing
then try walking in my shoes...
It feels just as confusing
because these are not the feelings I'd choose!
Most of my life,
the reason or situation didn't matter,
the mask would go up
as I feel my sanity shatter.
I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies
This is the dawning of the rest of our lives
Cast off the masks and let emotions fly
Let the false self die
Hear the sound of the falling rain
The rain to cleanse the brain
Everyone has a mask
To perform a different task
Hiding misery, regret, and pain
With a forced smile or gleam
Hoping it's only a bad dream
I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies
This is the dawning of the rest of our lives
I’ve never owned a teddy bear (aw…)
my parents read the child-rearing bibles
of the time, maybe that’s what it was
but I’m not pleading deprivation or
mental abuse; into my life
came Rex the lion cub
we loved each other from the moment
I set eyes on him. We were about
the same age, that was taken for granted,
since he was my best friend and
of course, since I can’t compare
lion cubs with teddy bears since
I couldn’t at the time, I’m guessing
what the pros and cons might be:
Rex wasn’t someone you could easily
prop up on the pillow at the bed-head
and talk to – he didn’t do talking-to
since he had an existence independent of me
but on the other hand
he loved to be rolled around with
with his prickly whiskers
and good nature, with the reassurance
that he was a lion, small but already
with very practical paws and would
protect me if required; his eyes were always ready for fun yet
very much set on what was ahead.
I think lion cubs are a fair match for teddies
but I would say that wouldn’t I
there was probably a difficult time
when I fell in love with Pooh Bear
for life
but I’ve blocked that out
and my parents (child-rearing books again)
were very clever at removing toys at
the ‘right’ moment to enable their child
to grow up. Well that failed.
But Rex did prepare me
psychologically for
that first puppy who
welcomed me unhesitatingly
into his life
but just recently, to celebrate
my second childhood
I’ve taken to wondering if
it’s not too late to acquire
a teddy bear
but no taking the first one offered thanks:
I’ve become a bit of a connoisseur
rather like signing up with
a marriage bureau: OK but
there may be better
around the corner...
I wander discreetly (‘It’s for my niece…’)
round department stores
with all their vulgar rubbish,
charity shops with their loved, furry balding spotted
survivors hoping for
a second happy marriage
or happier
looking carefully at their expressions
full-face, side view
(Good God, are their manufacturers aware
of the diff’rence ‘twixt bear and bear?)
wondering if it’s The One
please keep this to yourself ‘cos
I don’t want my friends fixing me up
with some merry widow(er)   of a bear
just because they’re sorry for the old git
I’ll take my time thanks
since I’d like to think
my previous partners will approve my choice
after all it’s for life and
we older and wiser ones have
so much to offer
My Savior, on the word of truth
In earnest hope I live;
I ask for all the precious things
Thy boundless love can give.
I look for many a lesser light
About my path to shine;
But chiefly long to walk with Thee,
And only trust in Thine.
In holy expectation held,
Thy strength my heart shall stay,
For Thy right hand will never let
My trust be cast away.
Yea, Thou hast kept me near Thy feet,
In many a deadly strife,
By the stronghold of hope in Thee,
The hope of endless life.
Thou knowest that I am not blest
As Thou wouldst have me be,
Till all the peace and joy of faith
Possess my soul in Thee
And still I seek ’mid many fears,
With yearnings unexpressed,
The comforts of Thy strengthening love,
Thy soothing, settling rest.
It is not as Thou wilt with me,
Till, humbled in the dust;
I know no place in all my heart
Wherein to put my trust.
Until I find, O Lord, in Thee,
The Lowly and the Meek,
That fullness which Thy own redeemed
Go nowhere else to seek.
Then, O my Savior, on my soul,
Cast down, but not dismayed,
Still be Thy chastening, healing hand
In tender, mercy laid.
And while I wait for all Thy joys,
My yearning heart to fill,
Teach me to walk and work with Thee,
And at Thy feet sit still.
Truth be told, in days of old
You were the one I wanted to have and to hold
If it be, Boy cant you see
That you will always belong to me
As it is, and forever more,
If it's God's will that you walk out the door
Before you go, there is one thing you should know
That is, I will always love you so
When the darkness creeps in,
And I can feel the cool wind breathing on the back of my neck,
I think of you to keep sane,
My life
My steady rock.
Then sleep overwhelms me,
And things are happening which I do not control,
Although being aware that I am only sleeping,
I can not force myself to wake,
I can not move,
The fear is overwhelming,
I’m frozen
Unable to move
Unable to scream
Unable to even close my eyes.
So I have to watch,
Unable to do anything to save you,
Blood once innocent flows free,
Suddenly there are other people around while all of this is happening,
But they’re not helping you
They’re not even looking at you
They’re looking at me
Looking with dark accusing eyes
‘How could you let this happen’
How could I let this happen
Again.
Search for nothing any more, nothing
except truth.
Be very still, and try and get at the truth.
And the first question to ask yourself is:
How great a liar am I?
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her, though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Unlearnèd in the world's false subtleties.
Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
Although she knows my days are past the best,
Simply I credit her false-speaking tongue;
On both sides thus is simple truth suppressed.
But wherefore says she not she is unjust?
And wherefore say not I that I am old?
O, love's best habit is in seeming trust,
And age in love, loves not to have years told.
Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,
And in our faults by lies we flattered be.
Loving in truth, and fain in verse my love to show,
That she (dear She) might take some pleasure of my pain:
Pleasure might cause her read, reading might make her know,
Knowledge might pity win, and pity grace obtain;
I sought fit words to paint the blackest face of woe,
Studying inventions fine, her wits to entertain:
Oft turning others' leaves, to see if thence would flow
Some fresh and fruitful showers upon my sun-burn'd brain.
But words came halting forth, wanting Invention's stay,
Invention, Nature's child, fled step-dame Study's blows,
And others' feet still seem'd but strangers in my way.
Thus, great with child to speak, and helpless in my throes,
Biting my truant pen, beating myself for spite--
"Fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart and write."
Open your heart and speak the truth therein;
Let not your tongue utter its usual lies;
For bearing false witness is mortal sin,
And Hell is punishment if man so dies!
Just listen to your conscience and speak;
Your evil words will one day God’s wrath reap;
John Celes is a doctor in his peak;
And God, his Friend and Guide who loves him deep.
No man is cleverer than God you know;
His justice, honesty prevails on earth;
To these ideals as doctors, we must bow,
Until we take our earthly life’s last breath.
Just speak the truth until the very last,
And do your duty to your God steadfast.
In truth, oh Love, with what a boyish kind
Thou doest proceed in thy most serious ways:
That when the heav'n to thee his best displays,
Yet of that best thou leav'st the best behind.
For like a child that some fair book doth find,
With gilded leaves or colored vellum plays,
Or at the most on some find picture stays,
But never heeds the fruit of writer's mind:
So when thou saw'st in Nature's cabinet
Stella, thou straight lookst babies in her eyes,
In her cheek's pit thou didst thy pitfall set:
And in her breast bopeep or couching lies,
Playing and shining in each outward part:
But, fool, seekst not to get into her heart.
Tell all the truth but tell it slant,
Success in circuit lies,
Too bright for our infirm delight
The truth's superb surprise;
As lightning to the children eased
With explanation kind,
The truth must dazzle gradually
Or every man be blind.
Despair has no wings,
Nor has love,
No countenance:
They do not speak.
I do not stir,
I do not behold them,
I do not speak to them,
But I am as real as my love and my despair.
The darkness surrounds me
fills the void and caresses my skin
encouraging me to rise and sin
my mind turns ashen and corrupts my thoughts
gossiping about would be not
I was once revered by the sick and the old
now all I have left is the cold
The darkness engulfs me
In my wake I drain happy thoughts
Leaving morals to sit and rot
dealing with those who would rather not.
'Your a monster' they say with a mob at their side
alone by themselves they would run and hide
A wake of destruction follows me by my stride
lands charred black, rivers boiled
The hard work of man soiled
My rise to the top is bloody and fast
The public knowing my reign will not last
Those who oppse are often bloodied
I have been extensively studied
The darkness becomes me
They fear me, hate me, want to destroy me
All because I took away their lives that were free
A bullet to the head,
I rise from the dead
Proclaimed as the one
Deeds like mine are rarely done
So begins my apocalyptic reign
I am the darness
In the long, narrow hall of home,
hangs a bleached and fading picture of four-year-old me:
holding hands with his bushy browed grampa,
wearing one of those plaid wool caps
that kids always used to wear
and a button up sweater
with reindeer stitched into it.
This me
searches the lens of the camera,
smiling sweetly,
the skin above his ears white and shy from a fresh haircut,
so innocent as to be almost foolish.
And tiptoeing the barbed wire of melancholy,
I'd like to tell that me some things,
in his grampa's backyard,
in Rochester, New York,
in 1951.
I'd warn him that living hurts,
that there are hard things out there:
bruised hearts,
screaming accidents,
sirens in the night,
people he loves ripped from the earth,
flimsy, gray funerals,
gone dreams.
I'd whisper that there is an emptiness out there-
deep and swirling
and black enough
to shatter the soul.
I'd remind him to look both ways before crossing,
and to dress warmly when the cold days come.
I'd tell him to take care.
'Be careful, ' I'd beg.
'Please...be careful.'
He would not hear.
He smiles sweetly.
(I can do nothing for him.)
Life found him.
That was always
the one sure truth
in the backyards of Rochester,
in the summer of the fireflies,
in 1951.
So, there is only this left:
I have come, somehow, to love that boy.
I'd like him to know.
(written 1984, revised 2004)
I bought a dollar and a half's worth of small red potatoes,
took them home, boiled them in their jackets
and ate them for dinner with a little butter and salt.
Then I walked through the dried fields
on the edge of town.  In middle June the light
hung on in the dark furrows at my feet,
and in the mountain oaks overhead the birds
were gathering for the night, the jays and mockers
squawking back and forth, the finches still darting
into the dusty light.  The woman who sold me
the potatoes was from Poland; she was someone
out of my childhood in a pink spangled sweater and sunglasses
praising the perfection of all her fruits and vegetables
at the road-side stand and urging me to taste
even the pale, raw sweet corn trucked all the way,
she swore, from New Jersey.  "Eat, eat" she said,
"Even if you don't I'll say you did."
Some things
you know all your life.  They are so simple and true
they must be said without elegance, meter and rhyme,
they must be laid on the table beside the salt shaker,
the glass of water, the absence of light gathering
in the shadows of picture frames, they must be
naked and alone, they must stand for themselves.
My friend Henri and I arrived at this together in 1965
before I went away, before he began to kill himself,
and the two of us to betray our love.  Can you taste
what I'm saying?  It is onions or potatoes, a pinch
of simple salt, the wealth of melting butter, it is obvious,
it stays in the back of your throat like a truth
you never uttered because the time was always wrong,
it stays there for the rest of your life, unspoken,
made of that dirt we call earth, the metal we call salt,
in a form we have no words for, and you live on it.
Truth is a golden thread, seen here and there
In small bright specks upon the visible side
Of our strange being's parti-coloured web.
How rich the universe! 'Tis a vein of ore
Emerging now and then on Earth's rude breast,
But flowing full below. Like islands set
At distant intervals on Ocean's face,
We see it on our course; but in the depths
The mystic colonnade unbroken keeps
Its faithful way, invisible but sure.
Oh, if it be so, wherefore do we men
Pass by so many marks, so little heeding?
It is very aggravating
To hear the solemn prating
Of the fossils who are stating
That old Horace was a prude;
When we know that with the ladies
He was always raising Hades,
And with many an escapade his
Best productions are imbued.
There's really not much harm in a
Large number of his carmina,
But these people find alarm in a
Few records of his acts;
So they'd squelch the muse caloric,
And to students sophomoric
They d present as metaphoric
What old Horace meant for facts.
We have always thought 'em lazy;
Now we adjudge 'em crazy!
Why, Horace was a daisy
That was very much alive!
And the wisest of us know him
As his Lydia verses show him,--
Go, read that virile poem,--
It is No. 25.
He was a very owl, sir,
And starting out to prowl, sir,
You bet he made Rome howl, sir,
Until he filled his date;
With a massic-laden ditty
And a classic maiden pretty
He painted up the city,
And Maecenas paid the freight!
The struggle goes on
Whichever direction you turn
There is no excluded section where you can run
The truth about life
Is merely to survive
From the moment you arrive
In birth, to the end of death
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
so familiar
an echo
an echo
from my heart
i turn to look
and the years
that carve that
emptiness
large as cave
sprout legs to
run to me
and my mind
rushes to embrace the
most endearing ones
so many lines
we traverse
that remind us
of the longing
that has bitten
its way into us
the years that help
lay bare the truth
between us
the truth that has fallen
between so many
painful lines
Tell the truth, are you crazy, the truth is for fools
In my clever world it’s lying which rules
Why opt for something as silly as sincerity
When you can easily choose dishonesty
Then you can tell lies upon lies upon lies
So many out there for you to devise
And believe them yourself, very nearly, why not
You weaved such an interesting, exciting plot
The truth, big deal, the truth is nothing but lies
My truth’s so much better, at least in my eyes
My lies versus the truth, so easy to win
Because I can keep lying ad nauseum
I’ll just spout out a lie, how easy was that
Don’t look for the truth in my kind of chat
You think I’ll be discovered, I’m way too smart
I’ll never say what’s there in my heart
My heart was stunted a long time ago
All this lying stopped any chance it could grow
When you don’t speak from your heart, it’s hard to see
The difference between truth and dishonesty
(Sydney, Australia - 2006)
I seek the truth in you
The weak lie is not you
So speak up, yes you
The truth hurts but it works
The truth simplifies and dignifies
The truth sooths preserving your youth
I ask the truth of you
Cry now, take a tissue
So speak up, yes you
The truth signifies and modifies
The truth is within and the best way to begin
The truth is a good start especially for sweethearts
I need the truth of you
Simply choose your venue
So speak up, yes you
The truth to any degree
Is a starting point to be free
Just like one and two make three
So speak up, yes you
If you agree
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
The light fell from the window and the day was done
Another day of thinking and distractions
Love wrapped in its wings passed by and coal-black Hate
Paused on the edge of the cliff and dropped a stone
From which the night grew like a savage plant
With daggers for its leaves and scarlet hearts
For flowers - then the bed
Rose clocklike from the ground and spread its sheets
Across the shifting sands
Autumnal breath of mornings far from here
A star veiled in grey mist
A living man:
The snapping of a dry twig was his only announcement. The two men, who had tied their boat to a branch that grew out over the water's edge, and were now moving up through the rank tropical vegetation, turned sharply.
He raised his eyes and saw the river's source
Between their legs - he saw the flaming sun
He saw the buildings in between the leaves
Behind their heads that were as large as globes
He heard their voices indistinct as rain
As faint as feathers falling
And he fell
The boat sailed on
The masts were made of straw
The sails were made of finest silken thread
And out of holes on either side the prow
Gushed endless streams of water and of flame
In which the passengers saw curious things:
The conjurer, we are told, 'took out of his bag a silken thread, and so projected it upwards that it stuck fast in a certain cloud of air. Out of the same receptacle he pulled a hare, that ran away up along the thread; a little beagle, which when it was slipped at the hare pursued it in full cry; last of all a small dogboy, whom he commanded to follow both hare and hound up the thread. From another bag that he had he extracted a winsome young woman, at all points well adorned, and instructed her to follow after hound and dogboy.'
She laughed to see them gazing after her
She clapped her hands and vanished in thin air
To reappear upon the other bank
Among the restless traffic of the quays
Her silhouette against the dusty sky
Her shadow falling on the hungry stones
Where sat the pilot dressed in mud-stained rags
He knocked the fragile statue down
And ate her sugar head
And then the witnesses all gathered round
And pointed at the chasm at his feet:
Clouds of blue smoke, sometimes mixed with black, were being emitted from the exhaust pipe. The smoke was of sufficient density to be an annoyance to the driver following the vehicle or to pedestrians.
The whispering of unseen flames
A sharp taste in the mouth.
780
The Truth—is stirless—
Other force—may be presumed to move—
This—then—is best for confidence—
When oldest Cedars swerve—
And Oaks untwist their fists—
And Mountains—feeble—lean—
How excellent a Body, that
Stands without a Bone—
How vigorous a Force
That holds without a Prop—
Truth stays Herself—and every man
That trusts Her—boldly up—
Woman's faith, and woman's trust -
Write the characters in the dust;
Stamp them on the running stream,
Print them on the moon's pale beam,
And each evanescent letter
Shall be clearer, firmer, better,
And more permanent, I ween,
Than the thing those letters mean.
I have strain'd the spider's thread
'Gainst the promise of a maid;
I have weigh'd a grain of sand
'Gainst her plight of heart and hand;
I told my true love of the token,
How her faith proved light, and her word was broken:
Again her word and truth she plight,
And I believed them again ere night.
One.
Two.
You.
You.
You.
Three .
Four.
More.
More.
More.
Five .
Six.
Picks.
Picks.
Picks.
Yo u’re never happy are you?
This is the truth
I have betrayed you
This is the truth
I have lied to you
This is the truth
I feel no remorse
This is the truth
I will do it again
or
Is this the truth?
It meant nothing!
Is this the truth?
Please believe me
Is this the truth?
I am truly sorry
Is this the truth?
It won't happen again
or
The truth is this
I was a bit bored
The truth is this
Just a bit of fun
The truth is this
I got caught out
The truth is this
I'm only human
Rosa's are red Violets are blue Demo's are gay and Republicans are ture
The Truth Is
I Shouldn't Have Left The Comfort of Your Grasp.
The Truth Is
I Miss You.
The Truth Is
I Get Jealous Of The One You're With.
The Truth Is
I Was Stupid.
The Truth Is
I Shouldn't Have Left The Comfort Of Your Grasp.
The Truth Is
I Miss You.
The Truth Is
I Get Jealous Of The Girl Standing With You.
The Truth Is
I Was Stupid
Now I Know
I Shouldn't Have Left The Comfort Of You Grasp
Now I Know
I Really Do Miss You
Now I know
The Girl Standing With You Is My Best Friend
Now I know
The True Meaning Of 'You Never Know What You Have Until You Let It Go.'
I’m sorry for not being there
I’m sorry for never seeming to care
I’m sorry if you thought I never loved you
For that is surely not true
I’m sorry for always coming home drunk
And how my clothes always stunk
I’m sorry for not believing in you
I’m sorry that we never talked
It seemed as if we were just a couple of strangers wouldn’t you say?
I’m sorry for being hard on you even when you had a bad day
I’m sorry for never trying
I’m sorry for running away when I saw you crying
I’m sorry for leaving you in the dark
Without a light to find your way
I’m sorry for all that I’ve done to you
I’m sorry for never seeing you through
I’m sorry for putting you down
This is for everything I’ve done to you
I'm sorry you never knew the truth and the truth is I Love You.
The teenager blasting his favourite tunes
Drowning his thoughts and feelings
In a muddy swamp of filthy lyrics.
The postman cheerfully whistling
As he does his round
An osrich, stuck in the sands of denial
His wife has just left him for a woman.
A mother wrapping her daughters' presents
It's Christmas Eve
Passively abusing and complicit
As her new husband violates her child in the bedroom
Right above her.
People would rather die than face the Truth.
Theres no sense in running
You cant hide from the nightmare forever
Don't you feel the breathe of death?
Don't you understand that you'll never get better?
Can you feel the world watching?
Accusing eyes, plotting your demise
Can you tell that no ones listening?
No gentle hand, to help you stand
Learn to laugh when you're fading
Learn to lie when you're in pain
Learn to smile when you're drowning
Learn to be pretend when you're no longer sane
the truth is what you ask for
you ask if I’m ok
you ask why I’m so distant
so, what should I say
should I tell you I’m suffering
or should I just say im ok
because that would be a lie
to say I’m ok
I’m far from ok
you say you want the truth
but I know you won; t understand the truth
I just don; t know if I can tell you the truth
or if I should
for the last person I had this conversation with
blow up in  my face
I thought she would understand
she said she would but she didn’t
I haven't seen her since that day
you turn to me again
and ask again
for the truth
I turn and tell you I don't know why I’m so distant
but I’m ok
I say its just me
its just how I am
what a lie I think to myself
you say ok and tell me you’re here if I need to talk
yeah right that is what she said when I wouldn't tell her
but when I told her she freaked and I lost her
the only person I trusted
now  I think to myself
'I can always come and talk to you'
yeah right
so you can leave me to
I start to think what is the truth?
well first off I know I; m not ok
I’m suffering
I’m stressed
I’m depressed
I’m suicidal
I feel alone
there is a nice short summary
I’m in pain everyday
and I’m so confused
Gone, I say and walk from church,
refusing the stiff procession to the grave,
letting the dead ride alone in the hearse.
It is June.  I am tired of being brave.
We drive to the Cape.  I cultivate
myself where the sun gutters from the sky,
where the sea swings in like an iron gate
and we touch.  In another country people die.
My darling, the wind falls in like stones
from the whitehearted water and when we touch
we enter touch entirely.  No one's alone.
Men kill for this, or for as much.
And what of the dead?  They lie without shoes
in the stone boats.  They are more like stone
than the sea would be if it stopped.  They refuse
to be blessed, throat, eye and knucklebone.
Love is wise, but how wise?
Real love can live without the magic of sex?
Love is the wisdom of two people
Sex is the lust of many
A woman the gift...a wise person
Understands less sex.
Women are not always willing to be on there back
A relationship is not a running track
But a place to be laid and admired from the sack.
A man as I was told... is bold for the female hole
Wisdom did him no good...
Born for sex from the hood...
Ride'em, feed'em, and Puck'em
That is how it was told
But the wisdom of the gift
Put into man a shift...
Now most men see love with both eyes and hope
Instead of with one eye and the hole as dope.
The gift is a shadow of a man's smile..
A woman's love is the wisdom we both learn to live and grow with
Now that most men understand that woman is woman
And man is man...Let us try to do the best we can....
Less sex on demand.
whisperkwane
(for Llewelyn)
This side of the truth,
You may not see, my son,
King of your blue eyes
In the blinding country of youth,
That all is undone,
Under the unminding skies,
Of innocence and guilt
Before you move to make
One gesture of the heart or head,
Is gathered and spilt
Into the winding dark
Like the dust of the dead.
Good and bad, two ways
Of moving about your death
By the grinding sea,
King of your heart in the blind days,
Blow away like breath,
Go crying through you and me
And the souls of all men
Into the innocent
Dark, and the guilty dark, and good
Death, and bad death, and then
In the last element
Fly like the stars' blood
Like the sun's tears,
Like the moon's seed, rubbish
And fire, the flying rant
Of the sky, king of your six years.
And the wicked wish,
Down the beginning of plants
And animals and birds,
Water and Light, the earth and sky,
Is cast before you move,
And all your deeds and words,
Each truth, each lie,
Die in unjudging love.
The thorns of a rose
Distract not from its beauty,
But causes the hand
To caress with tenderness,
And offer so carefully
To the recipient
The petals
And the pricks.
Such is the nature of truth
For it’s glory is beautiful, no doubt,
But can cause the hearer to wince
Lest with love and light
'Tis offered betwixt.
8-25-06
The time is now
Let change begin,
Blend heaven and earth
In an endless spin,
Wherever you're going,
Wherever you've been
Now change your direction
And travel within;
The time is now
To take a good look
Examine your life
And the roads that you took,
From cover to cover
You've written your book
Did you swim in the river
Or sleep by the brook?
The time is now
Get your head on straight
No more indecision
To love or to hate,
Since you are the author
Don't blame it on Fate,
Take control of your future
Before it's too late.
Ahimsa is the dazzling Truth
Attained through Non-violence,
Accepted by all scriptures of this world,
Adhered to by all wise men of this world!
Truth has no barricades or boundaries,
Truth has no barbaric barrels,
Truth and Ahimsa-a fine confluence- A
Total merger of benevolence!
The wise men of the world embraced
The Truth' as
The most venerated principle of life;
The path of all the scriptures of this world,
The path of the enlightened souls!
The Absolute Truth is attained
Through love,
Through compassion,
Through unity and oneness, for
Truth is God and God is Truth!
Truth can never remain hidden,
Truth can never be bidden
Truth can never be covered
Truth can never be smothered!
Truth is revelation
Truth is rejuvenation
Truth always is a wonder
Truth always is a winner!
Truth is like the brilliant Sun,
Opens its bright orange eyes,
Heralding a dawn,
A fresh day,
A new revelation!
Truth is like the golden Sun,
Shines without any reservations,
Never hiding nor holding back,
Revealing to the world its mighty power,
Sprinkling its golden yellow rays into the world!
Truth is like the marvellous Sun,
Ever ready to spill out its generous,
Powerful light energy,
Publishing its mysterious vocabulary,
Into the books of earth's mystical wonders.
Truth and Absolute Truth
Alone is the actual reality.
It was there before my birth
It is now at present with me
It will be there after my death.
It is but the Truth that I see
I feel I talk about and I am
In Truth only in Truth.
Change your mental setting
If you want to see me feel me.
Twixt truth and error, there's this difference known
Error is fruitful, truth is only one.
What ever God does
Is honest and true
What ever you do
Should be too.
No matter how hard
It seems to be
Ask help, in Jesus name
And be honest in your heart.
Brothers and sisters in Christ
Truthful and honest
Trusting our Lord with all our hearts
As Jesus taught us,
Lean not to our own understanding.
Our faith worketh in Jesus love
His love for us, forevermore
We except it day to day
Hour by hour, how wonderful.
How wonderful we can ask
His will to be done, not thine or mine
How wonderful His love for us
Makes all things right and wonderful.
What is created is also truth
There is nothing but truth
Truth sustains truth
What is sustained is also truth
There is nothing but truth
Truth never destroys
What is destroyed is not truth
There is nothing but truth
Truth is only here there
Everywhere as you see as I observe
And you see truth as I see truth
And truth is the light of all lights.
836
Truth—is as old as God—
His Twin identity
And will endure as long as He
A Co-Eternity—
And perish on the Day
Himself is borne away
From Mansion of the Universe
A lifeless Deity.
The joy of truth is
that it can be funnier,
crazier,
than fiction.
On September 16 the referee
suspended a football match
following complaints by the spectators
that the players on both
multicultural or should I say
multiracial teams
had been racially abusing each other
with terms like 'black bastard'
a player corrected this, explaining
that it wasn't racial abuse but
'sledging' - to put off
players from kicking penalties etc.:
'Sure it was abuse, but there
was no racism'
well that's alright then, after all
it's a multi, er, cultural society
and the tackling was clean and
good sportsmanship sorta
Truth is truth and it is the greatest work force
Truth is truth and it is the greatest religion
Truth is truth and it is the only essence of life
Truth is truth and it is all over the universe
Truth is truth and it is the greatest fighter here.
Truth! I shall speak you if I am in habit of listening to you,
Truth! If the society in that I am living cannot listen to you, I shall remain silent.
Truth! I know you are bitter but I shall taste you,
Truth! You are a poisonous wine but I shall drink you.
Truth! If you are my dream bring a Joseph to interoperate it,
Truth! If you are Joseph's beloved I shall love dreaming you.
Truth! If you are love I am ready to die being insane for you,
Truth! I promise I shall not held you responsible for my death.
Truth! If you are a reality why you appear as a superstition?
Truth! Though I am your image but I shall not hide myself behind the screens of lies.
Truth is always truth,
No one can deny it,
No one can defame it,
The sun is still shining brightly
At daytime like a king,
The serene moon is still shining
Like a queen in the night sky,
Gentle breeze is still blowing
To soothe the pensive and weary heart,
Sweet birds are also singing in the pleasant atmosphere
And the spring is still reigning in nature as usual;
So, there is nothing to worry,
Be happy and joyous,
Truth is definitely prevailing in this beautiful world.
Truth is what truth is
Truth is feeling, truth is living
Truth is the realization of life.
Let us live in Truth
Truth in quality and in quantity
Let us discover truth in entire forming.
It is a fact, nothing lacks in Truth
Truth is the beginning and truth is the ending
And in between we find only truth
Nothing but the truth.
It is the vision that is truth
It is the knowledge that is truth
The path is the truth, the opinion is the truth
And we find the love and the life-drama in love is only Truth.
A rock, for ages, stern and high,
Stood frowning 'gainst the earth and sky,
And never bowed his haughty crest
When angry storms around him prest.
Morn, springing from the arms of night,
Had often bathed his brow with light.
And kissed the shadows from his face
With tender love and gentle grace.
Day, pausing at the gates of rest,
Smiled on him from the distant West,
And from her throne the dark-browed Night
Threw round his path her softest light.
And yet he stood unmoved and proud,
Nor love, nor wrath, his spirit bowed;
He bared his brow to every blast
And scorned the tempest as it passed.
One day a tiny, humble seed --
The keenest eye would hardly heed --
Fell trembling at that stern rock's base,
And found a lowly hiding-place.
A ray of light, and drop of dew,
Came with a message, kind and true;
They told her of the world so bright,
Its love, its joy, and rosy light,
And lured her from her hiding-place,
To gaze upon earth's glorious face.
So, peeping timid from the ground,
She clasped the ancient rock around,
And climbing up with childish grace,
She held him with a close embrace;
Her clinging was a thing of dread;
Where'er she touched a fissure spread,
And he who'd breasted many a storm
Stood frowning there, a mangled form;
A Truth, dropped in the silent earth,
May seem a thing of little worth,
Till, spreading round some mighty wrong,
It saps its pillars proud and strong,
And o'er the fallen ruin weaves
The brightest blooms and fairest leaves.
Fle fro the pres, and dwelle with sothefastnesse,
Suffise thin owen thing, thei it be smal;
For hord hath hate, and clymbyng tykelnesse,
Prees hath envye, and wele blent overal.
Savour no more thanne the byhove schal;
Reule weel thiself, that other folk canst reede;
And trouthe schal delyvere, it is no drede.
Tempest the nought al croked to redresse,
In trust of hire that tourneth as a bal.
Myche wele stant in litel besynesse;
Bywar therfore to spurne ayeyns an al;
Stryve not as doth the crokke with the wal.
Daunte thiself, that dauntest otheres dede;
And trouthe shal delyvere, it is no drede.
That the is sent, receyve in buxumnesse;
The wrestlyng for the worlde axeth a fal.
Here is non home, here nys but wyldernesse.
Forth, pylgryme, forth! forth, beste, out of thi stal!
Know thi contré! loke up! thonk God of al!
Hold the heye weye, and lat thi gost the lede;
And trouthe shal delyvere, it is no drede.
[L'envoy.]
Therfore, thou Vache, leve thine olde wrechednesse;
Unto the world leve now to be thral.
Crie hym mercy, that of hys hie godnesse
Made the of nought, and in espec{.i}al
Draw unto hym, and pray in general
For the, and eke for other, hevenelyche mede;
And trouthe schal delyvere, it is no drede.
Truth
Bounded to you by love
Separated from you by life
Young and foolish not able to see
To see, the truth that surrounds me
Pleasant playgrounds joyfully explored
Traitorous life foolishly ignored
Safe in your arms I felt nurtured
Pride in your eyes I felt accomplishment
Youth turning to independence
Innocence turning to experience
Ego ruling me, intoxicating my mind
Other people’s favours turning my own
The Beginning of my hatred begun
Your choice, my responsibility
Neglection I choose to squander
Help is not for me to give
Cowardness enclosing my mind
Wanted safety banished from me
Betrayed by your needed love
Loneliness is burden to me
Haunted by you presence
Desperate to ease your pain
Impatience becoming a constant friend
Resignation is all I abide
Despite is all I feel
Love lost in unforgettable pain
Ruined is my life
If this is truth, ignorance I advise
Fishing for wood
on the edge of my
mattress
is one of the fine pleasures
of my
room.
I fiddle and fidget
with toiled
cigarettes
lit and spiralling
between my fingers.
There is
still a pong
of poignant
female
corroding my
hormones.
it won’t
let me lie
in a tranquil
daze,
catching the rays
of the green sun
in my desert dreams.
You have to wonder
(my reader)
whether there
is any point
to a woman’s man,
ladies’ man,
man’s man
gay’s man
no-one’s man
living in this
dust of clog,
arteries and
veins;
organs all
working to complicate
one another.
The night is
holding it’s torch
soaring in the sky
looking down on
a whole country
sleeping whilst a
dripping man
failing man
clown man
dead man
is still awake.
You could say
that I stumbled
upon the only certainty.
Mary X.
There are things
I will never understand.
The pain, the hate that
exists within my life.
There is nothing but time,
there is nothing real.
Truth is a concept,
no one ever sees.
No one ever feels it right,
and inside the truth
are only questions
of pain, of reality,
and a forgoing existence,
that has everyone living
outside the truth
and inside tradition,
opinion and thought.
With all being accepted now.
All truth changes in time…
“Do you remember yesterday?
Was last year the same? ”
In truth, death is reality.
Written November 22,1983
"Truth," said a traveller,
"Is a rock, a mighty fortress;
Often have I been to it,
Even to its highest tower,
From whence the world looks black."
"Truth," said a traveller,
"Is a breath, a wind,
A shadow, a phantom;
Long have I pursued it,
But never have I touched
The hem of its garment."
And I believed the second traveller;
For truth was to me
A breath, a wind,
A shadow, a phantom,
And never had I touched
The hem of its garment.
Inside me I feel alone,
The world still in motion.
People walking, but I’m the only one who has stopped.
I see me and I feel discussed.
I’m not what people want,
I’m as if handicapped, helpless.
I cry yet no one seems to care,
I try to fit in the worlds puzzle, but I seem too different to fit.
I look deep inside myself and there is pain,
New and old still there growing,
Yet no one sees that part of my fairly tale life.
I want the life that these so called humans have,
But they just won’t allow me as myself.
I want to just jump out of this ugly body of mine,
And stop my pretend life and live my true soul.
Till I start moving in motion with the world,
I will curl up as I am now,
Separated.
To see, or not to see, that is the problem;
Whether 'tis easier in this life to suffer
The barbs and jabs of unthinking citizens,
Or to marshal your forces against your foes,
And by resisting stop them? To struggle to weep;
No more; and by struggle to say to assuage
The heartache and the thousand inward struggles
That man is heir to, 'tis culmination
Fervently to be desired. To struggle to weep;
To weep; maybe to think: ay, there's the rub;
For in the weeping that drowns the sorrow
When you succumb to life here on earth,
Must present our cause; There's truth's impact
That makes chaos of so long a life;
For who is left to bear the taunts and jibes of time,
The abuser of power, the educators pleas,
The pangs of trampled truth, the endless trails,
The decisions in smoke filled rooms and the cries
Of those unworthy to think.
Truth will out! Truth will out!
But what is to be, will be.
Just what is transpiring at the Congressional level in our government! I thought that this poem might be worth considering.
Secrets are secret
Truth cannot expound
Everything is vanity
No comfort to be found
Truth is relative
or so it is, they say
Life for us is short
no time to dry the hay
What Truth will illumine
Lies would then conceal
with ebony tusks uncover
wounds that would not heal
Truth, truth.
That is exactly
I want to know
Both in rain
and in sun.
For truth
I am loving you
Day in and
Day out.
I am dreaming
the truth,
Truth is the reality
of my life, and
Life's imagination.
How can I forget
the truth that is
within me?
I am the basis
of the truth.
Let us accept the truth
that is there already
before us.
Let us forget not
we are here only
for the wise words
of that truth.
Truth is not painful,
Truth is what we accept
and what we reject.
Truth, truth,
that is what
exactly I want to know.
Truth truth truth
Everything is truth
The earth the water
The fire the air the ether
All that are accepted as truth
You are the original truth, my dear
Everything pertaining to You is also truth
Your body is truth Your knowledge is truth
Your smile is truth Your pleasure is truth
My offering is truth my surrender is truth
Your protection is also truth
Truth truth truth
Everything is truth
My dear, see my love is truth.
Sometime I think life is over,
But when I look behind your eyes I can uncover the truth you hide,
The lies you told me,
The things I believed,
But you never knew I can uncover your lies you have told me,
Uncover your dirty little secret you hide,
The deaths you have upon me will never end,
The lies you have told others will never end,
Its hard to believe the one you love can lie to you and shatter your heart into million pieces,
I have uncover the truth I seek,
Uncover the hate I feel,
You lead me to believe you are the one I love,
Lead me to think I loved you,
But in the end I get my heart broken.
This will stand the test of time, a poem of Truth with added rhyme,
They are Truths, from God’s Word; Bible Truths we all have heard.
And nothing has been added to, the words of Truth from me to you,
God’s the One to be stressed, and Christ who passes Eternal tests.
The Lord starts by giving life to us, creating all men out of the dust,
Creating man in the image of God, to put us over the earth we trod,
Over all the creatures that we see, created by The God of Eternity,
Created to live forever, to never die, up until Satan, to man had lied.
With man listening to Satan friend, his life on earth now would end,
And sin had brought an awful price, for man had to leave Paradise.
Shut out from God’s original plan, and all He had prepared for man,
And left to live out a temporal life, upon this earth of pain and strife.
For all received from God a curse, so all life ahead was only worse,
So now Adam like the rest of us, would soon return back to the dust.
But God’s Grace did rise above, sin’s awful curse through His Love,
Whom He would send to everyone, in Christ His Only Begotten Son.
Jesus Christ who died upon a cross, to pay sin’s price for all the lost.
By Satan’s lie men were deceived, but in God’s Son we can believe.
And with the rhymes in this poem, I point all to God’s Eternal Home,
Where all men can live Eternal Life, by faith in His Son Jesus Christ.
(Copyright ©02/2007)
There is no need to celebrate today.
There is no joy,  no promise with the sun.
Days are merely shadows that fade away.
Thoughts of what should have been have just begun.
Our lives were carefree just a while ago.
We had each other's love and it was clear
Our plans were fine and firm; our days would glow.
No folly or no foe could interfere.
In an instant fortune can be changed.
Cruel chance can cut and conquer the sublime.
No accident can be rearranged.
No prayer, faith or money can turn back time.
The Good are taken and their dreams are torn.
Pain rips my breath while fairness turns away.
Now, every path is barren and forlorn.
For you I mourn... until my dying day.
Where is a truth?
What is truth?
Everyone is moving in search of truth
Eyes are looking for third eyes of truth
Ears are silent for hearing the truth
Brain is meditated for truth
In the stage of litany
Is echo of melody is truth
Menace is truth or
Opacity is truth
What is truth?
Where is truth?
Heating is truth or melting
Water is truth or fire
Mind is truth or heart
God is truth or Gost
War is truth or peace
Life is truth or death
What is truth?
Where is truth?
Heaven is truth or heal
Love is truth or hate
Yesterday is truth or tomarrow
Is today the truth
Please Father say me
What is the truth?
Where is the truth?
in vino veritas
so goes the phrase
& so t'would seem to be:
Mind can lie; heart cannot.
& when mind keeps heart
under lock & key
then wine can seem
a welcome thief
opening lock'd heart
letting it speak its truth.
Thus my quandary:
Because I love you
I long to hear those words,
so sweet, echo'd back to me.
But at its killing cost
a price too high
& one I'd never ask.
For your heart's true song
is known to me
& though I might wish
you could pick heart's lock
or someday your mind
be a willing key,
I'd rather have you
be icy cold to me
than cold & dead & I bereft:
The grave's no place for your beauty, love
nor for your kind & loving heart
You mean so much to me.
My curse, you see, is to love you.
(I have e'er since we met.)
& I know what your heart feels
though mind can never speak.
Which is why I've never
closed my own:
open my heart & vulnerable
it leaves me little choice.
For I can naught but love you
e'en with your heart's truth unvoiced.
& once cross'd over to other side
our masks & roles shall be
dropp'd like useless toys
freeing our shining spirits
who shall embrace & know true joy.
but as for now, that old saw's truth
must sustain me & suffice
as my heart alone shall sing her tune aloud
and I stand, Aphrodite's sacrifice.
(Copyright 1/13/06)
For each simple random kind act
A small flower grows in my soul,
For each beautiful flower observed
A random kind act grows in my heart
For each loving smile I give
A dew drop comes to my dreams
For each beautiful dew drop I see
A smile is adorning my face
For each simple truth I speak
My soul is touched by a breeze
For each lovely breeze I feel
A simple truth is revealed
There was peace
before there was war
that's when two parties
fight for 'peace'
and after the war
there are two losers
though one believes itself
the winner
and perhaps that
is the most dangerous belief
and which god ever
declared war on men?
if every woman in the world
refused war
the men would not have a chance in hell
the hell of their own making
Within themselves, they hold
more than any man or woman should be asked to hold;
they are the unsung heroes of the peace
which clutches at the coat-tails of a war;
and we can never truly know them;
only offer them love, support, respect…
My first school had been an officers’ recuperation hospital
or final hospice for the wounded – in their body or their mind -
in the 1914-18 war; now
the dignified head doctor of few words
and his beautifully-mannered, voluptuous
ex-head-nurse wife
had made of it an ideal, loving school
for the new children of a new era after
‘the war to end all wars’…
The last resting place of warriors with screaming silent minds
who could not recuperate or
who found death so much more peaceful than their life
became, first the art room,
then the chapel: death, art, God and life
all together in one room.
My second school had as its teaching staff
several ex-officers who had chosen to shroud their memories
in teaching that new generation; but ironically,
were asked to run the cadet force which was
intended to preserve that lovely peace..
the sergeant-major who taught us PT and defensive war
had a face that was a repulsive souvenir –
like camouflage – brown, red, livid white,
almost the yellow-green of mustard gas
that had painted war upon him;
though he saved his lungs…
fine, stern, stiff-upper-lip teachers
shrouding their memories, until
some pupil tested them too far –
then their anger spilled, their canes and swagger-sticks
fiercely wielded, were memories for those (not us)    who knew,
of discipline that might shoot at dawn
for the sake of lives then saved at dusk…
today, they’d be hauled into court for passing on 'abuse';
we were taught by heroes.
My third school gave me a housemaster,
another unsung, unsinging hero, a confirmed bachelor
so we thought, who likewise buried unknown memories
in devoted teaching; few clues except
the same occasional, devastating temper when aroused;
in his modest study, a few small
muzzy photos in silver frames, of comrades – dead or alive?
or did it matter? In his late fifties or even early sixties,
some inner torment of his memories transcended,
he surprised us all by marrying happily and producing
a large family. And once again, we had little clue
about the war he fought; or whether the nights
brought him tormented dreams…
We were taught by heroes who were asked to hold
more than any man or woman should be asked to hold:
do we wish – or should we wish –
that we knew then what we guess now?
They, teaching us from all their memories of hideous war,
how to grow up in peace; only to see
a generation of those same boys and girls
demanded by another war..
Autumn again; brown leaves fall like green lives;
soon, November mists and poppies
red as blood, red as children’s blood
from a terrible union, of heroism and futility
called war.
see that woman
flung over her son's dead body
howling from the depths
of her womb
what has she
to do with war
or war with her?
*        *      *
if all the mothers in the world
denied war in their mind
and in their speech
what would happen
in the mind of men?
what is the powerful
compared with the power? *
(* ancient belief: man is the power-ful, woman the power)
Too young to know the horrors of a war  I've fought,
too young to know war's fear, or yearn for heroism,
but old enough to have lived through;
boys but one year older than myself
lived and fought and died; and younger, some,
who fought in Malaya, Kenya, Korea, to the death...
Slit trenches in Hyde Park were the first photos in 1938,
apart from the official ones to stir our patriotism;
then cycling home from town as radios in every house
spread Chamberlain's sad patrician voice
telling us with regret that from Herr Hitler
'no such reassurance has been received' -
and consequently Britain was at war...
Leaving the house which Mother had designed and Father built
a bare few yards from the  barbed-wired beach and sea
where unbeknownst to us, the Germans planned to land
their first invasion of support troops and supplies...
Herded one day unwarned into the basement changing room at school;
the first invasion scare; accompanied by - was it serious
or not? - the story that our wicked enemy
was to parachute its advance troops disguised as nuns,
but you could spot them as they descended
by their boots...
The Junior Training Corps turned out as firewatchers and Home Guard
with the Lee Enfield rifles, the wind-round puttees,
the smell of cordite and of rifle oil
of equipment - oh supreme irony - kept from World War One,
the 'war to end all wars', to be continued;
our Sergeant Major's face
a scary pattern like a camouflage, part white, part livid skin
from mustard gas in that first bloody war...
Days of vapour trails in the sky, as we cheered
the sky-high calligraphy of aerial dogfights;
the nights spent in the thump of bombs;
the prickly uniforms for us raw cadets; the battle drill;
the kick of grown-up rifle butt in shoulder,
the assembly of the machine-gun; the naming of its parts;
all this in far-off teenage memory;
not quite war.
But war enough.
when peace is forever,
why war?
It doesn't last
like peace.
(for Jerry Hughes, poet)
These timeless scenes of war,
of the people leaving their homes,
the columns of soldiers and tanks
and the rubble left by the shells —
it scarcely even matters
what color the uniforms are,
you could substitute yellowed photos
a hundred years old or more,
and no one would know the difference.
Human anger, reaching its limit,
spills over in scenes like this,
warriors and innocent victims
and somewhere, hidden in buildings,
the ones who conceived the slaughter.
The pictures we see remind us,
all those in our human lineage,
how fragile are our encampments,
how tender the threads of home,
a neighborhood where we can walk
and a room to sit down for a meal.
All we who are living witness
say a prayer for the suffering victims
and a thanks for a safe, warm bed,
and cry for this human condition
of transience upon the earth.
There, but for Grace, do we go.
with Dracula
I've a date tonight
we'll be out late
and get a bite.
such a gentle man -
he gets a chill
whenever he hears
that blood was spilled
I have looked into history,
and seen a field.
It's a field where, no wheat will yield.
It's a field that saw a bloody war.
a war to which,
there has been none before.
Where is this field,
where now the poppy grows,
that's rich in scent,
when the warm wind blows.
It was once a green pasture,
known as Flander's Field!
but is now the field,
where no wheat will yield.
So rich in red,
when the poppy blooms.
Among the crosses,
of soldiers tombs.
This field of honour,
to remember the dead.
Where The Twenty Third Psalm,
was so often said.
In this battle scared field,
that was once, No Mans Land!
men fought with courage,
with the help of Gods hand.
The carnage and the death,
that was within this hell fire,
Their only protection, were trenches,
bayonets and barbed wire.
Men charged to the sound,
of the Battle Cry!
Not one of them knowing,
if it was their last good bye.
Thousand's died within this field,
this field where,
no wheat will yield.
Dressed in medals,
are the men that survived,
what thoughts do they share,
of their comrades that died,
In a field that saw a Bloody War,
one that could be heard,
as far as England's shore.
This then is the field,
where no wheat will yield,
yet still the poppy grows,
so rich in scent,
when the warm wind blows.
The insanity of each battle,
And people attack each other
And people die..
Somewhere, Miles away,
Families cry,
And tears show no preferences,
They visit everyone
Along with pain
That decides to stay a bit longer...
God shows no preferences
at Paradise’s gates no passport is asked
Just the identity of the soul,
Nationality: the Tribe of kindness.
And when angels are given their wings
No questions are asked,
The colour doesn’t matter,
Archangels are blind,
The nation doesn’t matter,
Archangels come from Heaven
And Heaven is a miniature of the Earth,
All that matters is the beauty of the heart,
Archangels have studied Art…
FOR one throb of the artery,
While on that old grey stone I Sat
Under the old wind-broken tree,
I knew that One is animate,
Mankind inanimate fantasy'.
The war will change many things in art and life, and among them, it is to be hoped, many of our own ideas as to what is, and what is not, "intellectual."
Thou, whose deep ways are in the sea,
Whose footsteps are not known,
To-night a world that turned from Thee
Is waiting -- at Thy Throne.
The towering Babels that we raised
Where scoffing sophists brawl,
The little Antichrists we praised --
The night is on them all.
The fool hath said . . . The fool hath said . ..
And we, who deemed him wise,
We who believed that Thou wast dead,
How should we seek Thine eyes?
How should we seek to Thee for power
Who scorned Thee yesterday?
How should we kneel, in this dread hour?
Lord, teach us how to pray!
Grant us the single heart, once more,
That mocks no sacred thing,
The Sword of Truth our fathers wore
When Thou wast Lord and King.
Let darkness unto darkness tell
Our deep unspoken prayer,
For, while our souls in darkness dwell,
We know that Thou art there.
Awake, arise, the hour is come,
For rows and revolutions;
There's no receipt like pike and drum
For crazy constitutions.
Close, close the shop! Break, break the loom,
Desert your hearths and furrows,
And throng in arms to seal the doom
Of England's rotten boroughs.
We'll stretch that tort'ring Castlereagh
On his own Dublin rack, sir;
We'll drown the King in Eau de vie,
The Laureate in his sack, sir,
Old Eldon and his sordid hag
In molten gold we'll smother,
And stifle in his own green bag
The Doctor and his brother.
In chains we'll hang in fair Guildhall
The City's famed recorder,
And next on proud St Stephen's fall,
Though Wynne should squeak to order.
In vain our tyrants then shall try
To 'scape our martial law, sir;
In vain the trembling Speaker cry
That "Strangers must withdraw," sir.
Copley to hang offends no text;
A rat is not a man, sir:
With schedules, and with tax bills next
We'll bury pious Van, sir.
The slaves who loved the income Tax,
We'll crush by scores, like mites, sir,
And him, the wretch who freed the blacks,
And more enslaved the whites, sir.
The peer shall dangle from his gate,
The bishop from his steeple,
Till all recanting, own, the State
Means nothing but the People.
We'll fix the church's revenues
On Apostolic basis,
One coat, one scrip, one pair of shoes
Shall pay their strange grimaces.
We'll strap the bar's deluding train
In their own darling halter,
And with his big church bible brain
The parson at the altar.
Hail glorious hour, when fair Reform
Shall bless our longing nation,
And Hunt receive commands to form
A new administration.
Carlisle shall sit enthroned, where sat
Our Cranmer and our Secker;
And Watson show his snow-white hat
In England's rich Exchequer.
The breast of Thistlewood shall wear
Our Wellesley's star and sash, man:
And many a mausoleum fair
Shall rise to honest Cashman.
Then, then beneath the nine-tailed cat
Shall they who used it writhe, sir;
And curates lean, and rectors fat,
Shall dig the ground they tithe, sir.
Down with your Bayleys, and your Bests,
Your Giffords, and your Gurneys:
We'll clear the island of the pests,
Which mortals name attorneys.
Down with your sheriffs, and your mayors,
Your registrars, and proctors,
We'll live without the lawyer's cares,
And die without the doctor's.
No discontented fair shall pout
To see her spouse so stupid;
We'll tread the torch of Hymen out,
And live content with Cupid.
Then, when the high-born and the great
Are humbled to our level,
On all the wealth of Church and State,
Like aldermen, we'll revel.
We'll live when hushed the battle's din,
In smoking and in cards, sir,
In drinking unexcised gin,
And wooing fair Poissardes, sir.
I
Last year I called this world of gain-givings
The darkest thinkable, and questioned sadly
If my own land could heave its pulse less gladly,
So charged it seemed with circumstance whence springs
The tragedy of things.
II
Yet at that censured time no heart was rent
Or feature blanched of parent, wife, or daughter
By hourly blazoned sheets of listed slaughter;
Death waited Nature's wont; Peace smiled unshent
From Ind to Occident.
I
Last year I called this world of gain-givings
The darkest thinkable, and questioned sadly
If my own land could heave its pulse less gladly,
So charged it seemed with circumstance whence springs
The tragedy of things.
II
Yet at that censured time no heart was rent
Or feature blanched of parent, wife, or daughter
By hourly blazoned sheets of listed slaughter;
Death waited Nature's wont; Peace smiled unshent
From Ind to Occident.
A war of words, a war of words
Only in their simplicity we can afford
These spoken words when out of control
Bury nations in graves deeper than any hole
A war of friends, a war of friends
Is okay at the end if met with amicable amends
A war of skills, a war of skills
Will do us good if fun is the main course meal
And not the coveted need to feel to kill
A war of love, a war of love
But even love has its own boundaries
Think of overloading clothes at the laundries
Hate is the only thing love will not shove
A war of nations, a war of nations
Is irreversible condemnation
The effect on this earth’s population
Could be the birth of human destruction
I see the soldiers marching on
Singing a cold war song
On the road they hold onto their guns
As the fighting goes on all day long
Fight, March, and fight
Shoot, aim and shoot right
Whether the sun shines, this is war
This is war whether the rains pours
This is war where we kill
Our friends, sisters and brothers
For they are our enemies for real
If they choose against us for another
They go to war
Because of a handful of political men
Who stand alive; in erect offices still holding their pens
The soldiers fight until no one stands up anymore!
Fight, March, and fight
Shoot, aim and shoot right
Whether the sun shines, this is war
This is war whether the rains pours
www.sylviachidi.com
Prepare, prepare the iron helm of war,
Bring forth the lots, cast in the spacious orb;
Th' Angel of Fate turns them with mighty hands,
And casts them out upon the darken'd earth!
Prepare, prepare!
Prepare your hearts for Death's cold hand! prepare
Your souls for flight, your bodies for the earth;
Prepare your arms for glorious victory;
Prepare your eyes to meet a holy God!
Prepare, prepare!
Whose fatal scroll is that? Methinks 'tis mine!
Why sinks my heart, why faltereth my tongue?
Had I three lives, I'd die in such a cause,
And rise, with ghosts, over the well-fought field.
Prepare, prepare!
The arrows of Almighty God are drawn!
Angels of Death stand in the louring heavens!
Thousands of souls must seek the realms of light,
And walk together on the clouds of heaven!
Prepare, prepare!
Soldiers, prepare! Our cause is Heaven's cause;
Soldiers, prepare! Be worthy of our cause:
Prepare to meet our fathers in the sky:
Prepare, O troops, that are to fall to-day!
Prepare, prepare!
Alfred shall smile, and make his harp rejoice;
The Norman William, and the learnèd Clerk,
And Lion Heart, and black-brow'd Edward, with
His loyal queen, shall rise, and welcome us!
Prepare, prepare!
Soldiers commit suicide
In far-off distant lands
Suffering from battle fatigue
From seeing too many children
With blown-off eyes and hands!
There is only so much
Cruelty and death
Any sane human can take
Before his soul becomes
A withering flower
Perishing on desert sand.
The Children of War are like little flowers trampled,
Young and innocent, fragile and helpless,
Surrounded by violence and rampant destruction-
Their faces are filled with doubts and fear.
The Children of War, so precious and dear,
Stripped of their childhood years, their youth stolen away
Are little Saints for human failing through no fault of their own.
The Children of War, their lives lost and scarred,
Are the world's hopes and future wasted;
They are the cures never found, inventions never made,
Dreams unfulfilled, thoughts and ideas forever gone --
An irrational tragedy, no justification to be found.
OH, would I resembled
The country girls fair,
Who rosy-red ribbons
And yellow hats wear!
To believe I was pretty
I thought was allow'd;
In the town I believed it
When by the youth vow'd.
Now that Spring hath return'd,
All my joys disappear;
The girls of the country
Have lured him from here.
To change dress and figure,
Was needful I found,
My bodice is longer,
My petticoat round.
My hat now is yellow.
My bodice like snow;
The clover to sickle
With others I go.
Something pretty, e'er long
Midst the troop he explores;
The eager boy signs me
To go within doors.
I bashfully go,--
Who I am, he can't trace;
He pinches my cheeks,
And he looks in my face.
The town girl now threatens
You maidens with war;
Her twofold charms pledges .
Of victory are.
Do not weep, maiden, for war is kind.
Because your lover threw wild hands toward the sky
And the affrighted steed ran on alone,
Do not weep.
War is kind.
Hoarse, booming drums of the regiment,
Little souls who thirst for fight,
These men were born to drill and die.
The unexplained glory flies above them,
Great is the battle-god, great, and his kingdom --
A field where a thousand corpses lie.
Do not weep, babe, for war is kind.
Because your father tumbled in the yellow trenches,
Raged at his breast, gulped and died,
Do not weep.
War is kind.
Swift blazing flag of the regiment,
Eagle with crest of red and gold,
These men were born to drill and die.
Point for them the virtue of slaughter,
Make plain to them the excellence of killing
And a field where a thousand corpses lie.
Mother whose heart hung humble as a button
On the bright splendid shroud of your son,
Do not weep.
War is kind.
A half-hour more and you will lean
To gather me close in the old sweet way--
But oh, to the woman over the sea
Who will come at the close of day?
A half-hour more and I will hear
The key in the latch and the strong quick tread--
But oh, the woman over the sea
Waiting at dusk for one who is dead!
'Doway, doway', the soldier shouted,
moving them on with much impatience,
they were not able to go any faster,
kids, handwagons and their lives'  belongings
were not salvation but a hindrance for them all.
He took his filthy and mud crusted Kalatshnykov
and shot them all before they reached the town.
'What is the diffference', he asked himself,
a few more bodies in this war, and then he saw
a timid movement in the pile of bodies, 'life',
more out of shame and guilt he aimed again
and killed the final remnants of the human spirit.
NOUGHT more accursed in war I know
Than getting off scot-free;
Inured to danger, on we go
In constant victory;
We first unpack, then pack again,
With only this reward,
That when we're marching, we complain,
And when in camp, are bor'd.
The time for billeting comes next,--
The peasant curses it;
Each nobleman is sorely vex'd,
'Tis hated by the cit.
Be civil, bad though be thy food,
The clowns politely treat;
If to our hosts we're ever rude,
Jail-bread we're forced to eat.
And when the cannons growl around,
And small arms rattle clear,
And trumpet, trot, and drum resound,
We merry all appear;
And as it in the fight may chance,
We yield, then charge amain,
And now retire, and now advance,
And yet a cross ne'er gain.
At length there comes a musket-ball,
And hits the leg, please Heaven;
And then our troubles vanish all,
For to the town we're driven,
(Well cover'd by the victor's force,)
Where we in wrath first came,--
The women, frightened then, of course,
Are loving now and tame.
Cellar and heart are open'd wide,
The cook's allow'd no rest;
While beds with softest down supplied
Are by our members press'd.
The nimble lads upon us wait,
No sleep the hostess takes
Her shift is torn in pieces straight,--
What wondrous lint it makes!
If one has tended carefully
The hero's wounded limb,
Her neighbour cannot rest, for she
Has also tended him.
A third arrives in equal haste,
At length they all are there,
And in the middle he is placed
Of the whole band so fair!
On good authority the king
Hears how we love the fight,
And bids them cross and ribbon bring,
Our coat and breast to dight.
Say if a better fate can e'er
A son of Mars pursue!
'Midst tears at length we go from there,
Beloved and honour'd too.
AMONGST THE HIGHLY PLACED
It is considered low to talk about food.
The fact is:  they have
Already eaten.
The lowly must leave this earth
Without having tasted
Any good meat.
For wondering where they come from and
Where they are going
The fine evenings find them
Too exhausted.
They have not yet seen
The mountains and the great sea
When their time is already up.
If the lowly do not
Think about what's low
They will never rise.
THE BREAD OF THE HUNGRY HAS
ALL BEEN EATEN
Meat has become unknown.  Useless
The pouring out of the people's sweat.
The laurel groves have been
Lopped down.
From the chimneys of the arms factories
Rises smoke.
THE HOUSE-PAINTER SPEAKS OF
GREAT TIMES TO COME
The forests still grow.
The fields still bear
The cities still stand.
The people still breathe.
ON THE CALENDAR THE DAY IS NOT
YET SHOWN
Every month, every day
Lies open still.  One of those days
Is going to be marked with a cross.
THE WORKERS CRY OUT FOR BREAD
The merchants cry out for markets.
The unemployed were hungry.  The employed
Are hungry now.
The hands that lay folded are busy again.
They are making shells.
THOSE WHO TAKE THE MEAT FROM THE TABLE
Teach contentment.
Those for whom the contribution is destined
Demand sacrifice.
Those who eat their fill speak to the hungry
Of wonderful times to come.
Those who lead the country into the abyss
Call ruling too difficult
For ordinary men.
WHEN THE LEADERS SPEAK OF PEACE
The common folk know
That war is coming.
When the leaders curse war
The mobilization order is already written out.
THOSE AT THE TOP SAY:  PEACE
AND WAR
Are of different substance.
But their peace and their war
Are like wind and storm.
War grows from their peace
Like son from his mother
He bears
Her frightful features.
Their war kills
Whatever their peace
Has left over.
ON THE WALL WAS CHALKED:
They want war.
The man who wrote it
Has already fallen.
THOSE AT THE TOP SAY:
This way to glory.
Those down below say:
This way to the grave.
THE WAR WHICH IS COMING
Is not the first one.  There were
Other wars before it.
When the last one came to an end
There were conquerors and conquered.
Among the conquered the common people
Starved.  Among the conquerors
The common people starved too.
THOSE AT THE TOP SAY COMRADESHIP
Reigns in the army.
The truth of this is seen
In the cookhouse.
In their hearts should be
The selfsame courage.  But
On their plates
Are two kinds of rations.
WHEN IT COMES TO MARCHING MANY DO NOT
KNOW
That their enemy is marching at their head.
The voice which gives them their orders
Is their enemy's voice and
The man who speaks of the enemy
Is the enemy himself.
IT IS NIGHT
The married couples
Lie in their beds.  The young women
Will bear orphans.
GENERAL, YOUR TANK IS A POWERFUL VEHICLE
It smashes down forests and crushes a hundred men.
But it has one defect:
It needs a driver.
General, your bomber is powerful.
It flies faster than a storm and carries more than an elephant.
But it has one defect:
It needs a mechanic.
General, man is very useful.
He can fly and he can kill.
But he has one defect:
He can think.
SHE turn’d the fair page with her fairer hand—
More fair and frail than it was wont to be—
O’er each remember’d thing he lov’d to see
She linger’d, and as with a fairy’s wand
Enchanted it to order. Oft she fann’d
New motes into the sun; and as a bee
Sings thro’ a brake of bells, so murmur’d she,
And so her patient love did understand
The reliquary room. Upon the sill
She fed his favorite bird. “Ah, Robin, sing!
He loves thee.” Then she touches a sweet string
Of soft recall, and towards the Eastern hill
Smiles all her soul—for him who cannot hear
The raven croaking at his carrion ear.
Among the blight-killed eucalypts, among
trees and bushes rusted by Christmas frosts,
the yards and hillsides exhausted by five years of drought,
certain airy white blossoms punctually
reappeared, and dense clusters of pale pink, dark pink--
a delicate abundance. They seemed
like guests arriving joyfully on the accustomed
festival day, unaware of the year's events, not perceiving
the sackcloth others were wearing.
To some of us, the dejected landscape consorted well
with our shame and bitterness. Skies ever-blue,
daily sunshine, disgusted us like smile-buttons.
Yet the blossoms, clinging to thin branches
more lightly than birds alert for flight,
lifted the sunken heart
even against its will.
But not
as symbols of hope: they were flimsy
as our resistance to the crimes committed
--again, again--in our name; and yes, they return,
year after year, and yes, they briefly shone with serene joy
over against the dark glare
of evil days. They
are
, and their presence
is quietness ineffable--and the bombings
are
, were,
no doubt will be; that quiet, that huge cacophany
simultaneous. No promise was being accorded, the blossoms
were not doves, there was no rainbow. And when it was claimed
the war had ended, it had not ended.
In spite of war, in spite of death,
In spite of all man's sufferings,
Something within me laughs and sings
And I must praise with all my breath.
In spite of war, in spite of hate
Lilacs are blooming at my gate,
Tulips are tripping down the path
In spite of war, in spite of wrath.
"Courage!" the morning-glory saith;
"Rejoice!" the daisy murmureth,
And just to live is so divine
When pansies lift their eyes to mine.
The clouds are romping with the sea,
And flashing waves call back to me
That naught is real but what is fair,
That everywhere and everywhere
A glory liveth through despair.
Though guns may roar and cannon boom,
Roses are born and gardens bloom;
My spirit still may light its flame
At that same torch whence poppies came.
Where morning's altar whitely burns
Lilies may lift their silver urns
In spite of war, in spite of shame.
And in my ear a whispering breath,
"Wake from the nightmare! Look and see
That life is naught but ecstasy
In spite of war, in spite of death!"
Cave, Cave, Deus Videt
(Beware, Beware, God Sees Thee)
.
.
.
Crude those canyons
scratched by fear and hate
where hope abandoned
young men to their fate
whose blood erodes
wee rivulets through the trench
as minds implode
from lack of sleep and stench
From factory and field
the bugles called
to don the sword and shield
pure youth enthralled,
lured by adventure,
travel, coaxed by thrill,
who once indentured
would be dressed to kill
But soon the merry bands
daydreams were shattered,
where once were farmers lands
the dead lay scattered,
too soon to learn
in war what life is worth,
too soon returned
to meld a hungry earth
Stay low lest swarms
of bullets sting as bees
or winds transform
the air to gaseous breeze,
two to a match
the snipers site by three,
entrench and catch
the stink of deaths disease
When yesterdays close mate
to death succumbs
he's instantly dead weight
the friendship numbs,
a trench wall
swiftly serves cadavers tomb,
it must be culled
to stay the noxious fumes
At times the dead limbs
prod out from the sod
and though it's grim
in war not much is odd,
one stiff for days
was offering a hand,
who passed its way
for luck shook it deadpanned
In war deaths place
as sole halcyon midwife
bears each corpse its space
not known in life,
youth called brave
by tribalistic cultures
in epilogues o'er graves
by chieftain vultures
War's an old mans game
the young mere chattel
whose purity's inflamed
and aimed towards battle,
our history won't soften
into calm,
our nails aren't just for coffins
but for palms
To Alan Mitchell
Vixi duellis nuper idoneus
Et militavi non sine gloria
I. Naming of Parts
Today we have naming of parts. Yesterday
We had daily cleaning. And tomorrow morning,
We shall have what to do after firing. But today,
Today we have naming of parts. Japonica
Glistens like coral in all of the neighbouring gardens,
And today we have naming of parts.
This is the lower sling swivel. And this
Is the upper sling swivel, whose use you will see,
When you are given your slings. And this is the piling swivel,
Which in your case you have not got. The branches
Hold in the gardens their silent, eloquent gestures,
Which in our case we have not got.
This is the safety-catch, which is always released
With an easy flick of the thumb. And please do not let me
See anyone using his finger. You can do it quite easy
If you have any strength in your thumb. The blossoms
Are fragile and motionless, never letting anyone see
Any of them using their finger.
And this you can see is the bolt. The purpose of this
Is to open the breech, as you see. We can slide it
Rapidly backwards and forwards; we call this
Easing the spring. And rapidly backwards and forwards
The early bees are assaulting and fumbling the flowers:
They call it easing the Spring.
They call it easing the Spring. It is perfectly easy
If you have any strength in your thumb; like the bolt,
And the breech, and the cocking piece, and the point of balance,
Which in our case we have not got; and the almond-blossom
Silent in all of the gardens and the bees going backwards and forwards,
For today we have naming of parts.
THE CHANCELLOR mused as he nibbled his pen
(Sure no Minister ever looked wiser),
And said, “I can summon a million of men
To fight for their country and Kaiser;
“While that shallow charlatan ruling o’er France,
Who deems himself deeper than Merlin,
Thinks he and his soldiers have only to dance
To the tune of the Can-can to Berlin.
“But as soon as he gets to the bank of the Rhine,
He’ll be met by the great German army.”
Then the Chancellor laughed, and he said, “I will dine,
For I see nothing much to alarm me.”
Yet still as he went out he paused by the door
(For his mind was in truth heavy laden),
And he saw a stout fellow, equipped for the war,
Embracing a fair-haired young maiden.
“Ho! ho!” said the Chancellor, “this will not do,
For Mars to be toying with Venus,
When these Frenchmen are coming—a rascally crew!—
And the Rhine only flowing between us.”
So the wary old fox, just in order to hear,
Strode one or two huge paces nearer;
And he heard the youth say, “More than life art thou dear;
But, O loved one, the Fatherland’s dearer.”
Then the maid dried her tears and looked up in his eyes,
And she said, “Thou of loving art worthy:
When all are in danger no brave man e’er flies,
And thy love should spur on—not deter thee.”
The Chancellor took a cigar, which he lit,
And he muttered, “Here ’s naught to alarm me;
By Heaven! I swear they are both of them fit
To march with the great German army.”
Lovers all are soldiers, and Cupid has his campaigns:
I tell you, Atticus, lovers all are soldiers.
Youth is fit for war, and also fit for Venus.
Imagine an aged soldier, an elderly lover!
A general looks for spirit in his brave soldiery;
a pretty girl wants spirit in her companions.
Both stay up all night long, and each sleeps on the ground;
one guards his mistress's doorway, one his general's.
The soldier's lot requires far journeys; send his girl,
the zealous lover will follow her anywhere.
He'll cross the glowering mountains, the rivers swollen with storm;
he'll tread a pathway through the heaped-up snows;
and never whine of raging Eurus when he sets sail
or wait for stars propitious for his voyage.
Who but lovers and soldiers endure the chill of night,
and blizzards interspersed with driving rain?
The soldier reconnoiters among the dangerous foe;
the lover spies to learn his rival's plans.
Soldiers besiege strong cities; lovers, a harsh girl's home;
one storms town gates, the other storms house doors.
It's clever strategy to raid a sleeping foe
and slay an unarmed host by force of arms.
(That's how the troops of Thracian Rhesus met their doom,
and you, O captive steeds, forsook your master.)
Well, lovers take advantage of husbands when they sleep,
launching surprise attacks while the enemy snores.
To slip through bands of guards and watchful sentinels
is always the soldier's mission - and the lover's.
Mars wavers; Venus flutters: the conquered rise again,
and those you'd think could never fall, lie low.
So those who like to say that love is indolent
should stop:  Love is the soul of enterprise.
Sad Achilles burns for Briseis, his lost darling:
Trojans, smash the Greeks' power while you may!
From Andromache's embrace Hector went to war;
his own wife set the helmet on his head;
and High King Agamemnon, looking on Priam's child,
was stunned (they say)  by the Maenad's flowing hair.
And Mars himself was trapped in The Artificer's bonds:
no tale was more notorious in heaven.
I too was once an idler, born for careless ease;
my shady couch had made my spirit soft.
But care for a lovely girl aroused me from my sloth
and bid me to enlist in her campaign.
So now you see me forceful, in combat all night long.
If you want a life of action, fall in love.
- translated from the Latin by Jon Corelis
MY hovering thoughts would fly to heaven
And quiet nestle in the sky,
Fain would my ship in Virtue's shore
Without remove at anchor lie.
But mounting thoughts are haled down
With heavy poise of mortal load,
And blustring storms deny my ship
In Virtue's haven secure abode.
When inward eye to heavenly sights
Doth draw my longing heart's desire,
The world with jesses of delights
Would to her perch my thoughts retire,
Fon Fancy trains to Pleasure's lure,
Though Reason stiffly do repine;
Though Wisdom woo me to the saint,
Yet Sense would win me to the shrine.
Where Reason loathes, there Fancy loves,
And overrules the captive will;
Foes senses are to Virtue's lore,
They draw the wit their wish to fill.
Need craves consent of soul to sense,
Yet divers bents breed civil fray ;
Hard hap where halves must disagree,
Or truce halves the whole betray !
O cruel fight ! where fighting friend
With love doth kill a favoring foe,
Where peace with sense is war with God,
And self-delight the seed of woe !
Dame Pleasure's drugs are steeped in sin,
Their sugared taste doth breed annoy ;
O fickle sense ! beware her gin,
Sell not thy soul to brittle joy !
I
Ancestral Houses
SURELY among a rich man s flowering lawns,
Amid the rustle of his planted hills,
Life overflows without ambitious pains;
And rains down life until the basin spills,
And mounts more dizzy high the more it rains
As though to choose whatever shape it wills
And never stoop to a mechanical
Or servile shape, at others' beck and call.
Mere dreams, mere dreams! Yet Homer had not Sung
Had he not found it certain beyond dreams
That out of life's own self-delight had sprung
The abounding glittering jet; though now it seems
As if some marvellous empty sea-shell flung
Out of the obscure dark of the rich streams,
And not a fountain, were the symbol which
Shadows the inherited glory of the rich.
Some violent bitter man, some powerful man
Called architect and artist in, that they,
Bitter and violent men, might rear in stone
The sweetness that all longed for night and day,
The gentleness none there had ever known;
But when the master's buried mice can play.
And maybe the great-grandson of that house,
For all its bronze and marble, 's but a mouse.
O what if gardens where the peacock strays
With delicate feet upon old terraces,
Or else all Juno from an urn displays
Before the indifferent garden deities;
O what if levelled lawns and gravelled ways
Where slippered Contemplation finds his ease
And Childhood a delight for every sense,
But take our greatness with our violence?
What if the glory of escutcheoned doors,
And buildings that a haughtier age designed,
The pacing to and fro on polished floors
Amid great chambers and long galleries, lined
With famous portraits of our ancestors;
What if those things the greatest of mankind
Consider most to magnify, or to bless,
But take our greatness with our bitterness?
II
My House
An ancient bridge, and a more ancient tower,
A farmhouse that is sheltered by its wall,
An acre of stony ground,
Where the symbolic rose can break in flower,
Old ragged elms, old thorns innumerable,
The sound of the rain or sound
Of every wind that blows;
The stilted water-hen
Crossing Stream again
Scared by the splashing of a dozen cows;
A winding stair, a chamber arched with stone,
A grey stone fireplace with an open hearth,
A candle and written page.
Il Penseroso's Platonist toiled on
In some like chamber, shadowing forth
How the daemonic rage
Imagined everything.
Benighted travellers
From markets and from fairs
Have seen his midnight candle glimmering.
Two men have founded here.  A man-at-arms
Gathered a score of horse and spent his days
In this tumultuous spot,
Where through long wars and sudden night alarms
His dwinding score and he seemed castaways
Forgetting and forgot;
And I, that after me
My bodily heirs may find,
To exalt a lonely mind,
Befitting emblems of adversity.
III
My Table
Two heavy trestles, and a board
Where Sato's gift, a changeless sword,
By pen and paper lies,
That it may moralise
My days out of their aimlessness.
A bit of an embroidered dress
Covers its wooden sheath.
Chaucer had not drawn breath
When it was forged.  In Sato's house,
Curved like new moon, moon-luminous
It lay five hundred years.
Yet if no change appears
No moon; only an aching heart
Conceives a changeless work of art.
Our learned men have urged
That when and where 'twas forged
A marvellous accomplishment,
In painting or in pottery, went
From father unto son
And through the centuries ran
And seemed unchanging like the sword.
Soul's beauty being most adored,
Men and their business took
Me soul's unchanging look;
For the most rich inheritor,
Knowing that none could pass Heaven's door,
That loved inferior art,
Had such an aching heart
That he, although a country's talk
For silken clothes and stately walk.
Had waking wits; it seemed
Juno's peacock screamed.
IV
My Descendants
Having inherited a vigorous mind
From my old fathers, I must nourish dreams
And leave a woman and a man behind
As vigorous of mind, and yet it seems
Life scarce can cast a fragrance on the wind,
Scarce spread a glory to the morning beams,
But the torn petals strew the garden plot;
And there's but common greenness after that.
And what if my descendants lose the flower
Through natural declension of the soul,
Through too much business with the passing hour,
Through too much play, or marriage with a fool?
May this laborious stair and this stark tower
Become a roofless min that the owl
May build in the cracked masonry and cry
Her desolation to the desolate sky.
The primum Mobile that fashioned us
Has made the very owls in circles move;
And I, that count myself most prosperous,
Seeing that love and friendship are enough,
For an old neighbour's friendship chose the house
And decked and altered it for a girl's love,
And know whatever flourish and decline
These stones remain their monument and mine.
V
The Road at My Door
An affable Irregular,
A heavily-built Falstaffian man,
Comes cracking jokes of civil war
As though to die by gunshot were
The finest play under the sun.
A brown Lieutenant and his men,
Half dressed in national uniform,
Stand at my door, and I complain
Of the foul weather, hail and rain,
A pear-tree broken by the storm.
I count those feathered balls of soot
The moor-hen guides upon the stream.
To silence the envy in my thought;
And turn towards my chamber, caught
In the cold snows of a dream.
VI
The Stare's Nest by My Window
The bees build in the crevices
Of loosening masonry, and there
The mother birds bring grubs and flies.
My wall is loosening; honey-bees,
Come build in the empty house of the state.
We are closed in, and the key is turned
On our uncertainty; somewhere
A man is killed, or a house burned,
Yet no cleat fact to be discerned:
Come build in he empty house of the stare.
A barricade of stone or of wood;
Some fourteen days of civil war;
Last night they trundled down the road
That dead young soldier in his blood:
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
We had fed the heart on fantasies,
The heart's grown brutal from the fare;
More Substance in our enmities
Than in our love; O honey-bees,
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
VII
I see Phantoms of Hatred and of the Heart's
Fullness and of the Coming Emptiness
I climb to the tower-top and lean upon broken stone,
A mist that is like blown snow is sweeping over all,
Valley, river, and elms, under the light of a moon
That seems unlike itself, that seems unchangeable,
A glittering sword out of the east.  A puff of wind
And those white glimmering fragments of the mist sweep by.
Frenzies bewilder, reveries perturb the mind;
Monstrous familiar images swim to the mind's eye.
'Vengeance upon the murderers,' the cry goes up,
'Vengeance for Jacques Molay.' In cloud-pale rags, or in lace,
The rage-driven, rage-tormented, and rage-hungry troop,
Trooper belabouring trooper, biting at arm or at face,
Plunges towards nothing, arms and fingers spreading wide
For the embrace of nothing; and I, my wits astray
Because of all that senseless tumult, all but cried
For vengeance on the murderers of Jacques Molay.
Their legs long, delicate and slender, aquamarine their eyes,
Magical unicorns bear ladies on their backs.
The ladies close their musing eyes.  No prophecies,
Remembered out of Babylonian almanacs,
Have closed the ladies' eyes, their minds are but a pool
Where even longing drowns under its own excess;
Nothing but stillness can remain when hearts are full
Of their own sweetness, bodies of their loveliness.
The cloud-pale unicorns, the eyes of aquamarine,
The quivering half-closed eyelids, the rags of cloud or of lace,
Or eyes that rage has brightened, arms it has made lean,
Give place to an indifferent multitude, give place
To brazen hawks.  Nor self-delighting reverie,
Nor hate of what's to come, nor pity for what's gone,
Nothing but grip of claw, and the eye's complacency,
The innumerable clanging wings that have put out the moon.
I turn away and shut the door, and on the stair
Wonder how many times I could have proved my worth
In something that all others understand or share;
But O! ambitious heart, had such a proof drawn forth
A company of friends, a conscience set at ease,
It had but made us pine the more.  The abstract joy,
The half-read wisdom of daemonic images,
Suffice the ageing man as once the growing boy.
Memorial day for the war dead.  Add now
the grief of all your losses to their grief,
even of a woman that has left you.  Mix
sorrow with sorrow, like time-saving history,
which stacks holiday and sacrifice and mourning
on one day for easy, convenient memory.
Oh, sweet world soaked, like bread,
in sweet milk for the terrible toothless God.
"Behind all this some great happiness is hiding."
No use to weep inside and to scream outside.
Behind all this perhaps some great happiness is hiding.
Memorial day.  Bitter salt is dressed up
as a little girl with flowers.
The streets are cordoned off with ropes,
for the marching together of the living and the dead.
Children with a grief not their own march slowly,
like stepping over broken glass.
The flautist's mouth will stay like that for many days.
A dead soldier swims above little heads
with the swimming movements of the dead,
with the ancient error the dead have
about the place of the living water.
A flag loses contact with reality and flies off.
A shopwindow is decorated with
dresses of beautiful women, in blue and white.
And everything in three languages:
Hebrew, Arabic, and Death.
A great and royal animal is dying
all through the night under the jasmine
tree with a constant stare at the world.
A man whose son died in the war walks in the street
like a woman with a dead embryo in her womb.
"Behind all this some great happiness is hiding."
Looking out across the land,
I see a sight that is not so grand.
A scene that is eerie and still,
But as the sun set behind the distant hill,
Flags fluttered in the evening breeze,
Leaves rustled in the nearby trees.
The memories of war came into view,
Fallen comrades and massive destruction too
Bringing back the horrors of an era past
Walking through those perished forms at last.
Rows of faded flags and crosses
In remembrance of our greatest losses.
All these buried souls did fight and die
When the call to arms was extremely high.
Many have fallen and lie in eternal sleep,
Leaving posterity to ponder their keep.
Each flag and cross for a nation to bear
In memory of a veteran under God's care.
When I was four I crossed the road
To pick some flowers growing wild
In meadows lovely to a child
Allowed to roam the birds' abode.
A wandering bomb had hit the home
Which once stood calm upon this place
Or were there secrets or disgrace
That brought that house to dust and loam?
Bees I saw, and shrapnel shells
And snails and grasses waving high
Above me to the cloudless sky,
Breezes and birds and distant bells.
Fearlessly I gathered more,
And bore an armful, loving gift
Of foxgloves, lupines, daisy drift,
And buttercups and farmer's lore.
The daily siren's wailing moan
Did not disturb my young delight
But suddenly into my sight
Sat at my feet a whitened bone.
I stared and thought and bent to see
When something moved away in fear:
A hedgehog braving the All-Clear
Was startled at the smell of me
And showed courageously his spines -
I shrieked and dropped my great bouquet,
Forgot my gift, my country play,
'A hedgehog! ' I left enemy lines
And ran awoken from my field
Out of the summer's flowery charms,
Across the road to welcome arms
Where laughter cast a shameful shield.
Last year we fought by the head-stream of the Sang-kan,
This year we are fighting on the Tsung-ho road.
We have washed our armor in the waves of the Chiao-chi lake,
We have pastured our horses on Tien-shan's snowy slopes.
The long, long war goes on ten thousand miles from home,
Our three armies are worn and grown old.
The barbarian does man-slaughter for plowing;
On this yellow sand-plains nothing has been seen but
blanched skulls and bones.
Where the Chin emperor built the walls against the Tartars,
There the defenders of Han are burning beacon fires.
The beacon fires burn and never go out,
There is no end to war!—
In the battlefield men grapple each other and die;
The horses of the vanquished utter lamentable cries to heaven,
While ravens and kites peck at human entrails,
Carry them up in their flight, and hang them on the branches of dead trees.
So, men are scattered and smeared over the desert grass,
And the generals have accomplished nothing.
Oh, nefarious war! I see why arms
Were so seldom used by the benign sovereigns.
Today, while yet the rumour filled the street,
I left your faces troubled with the thought
Of brothers to a bodeful fury wrought;
And, hurrying past a thousand twinkling feet,
With clouded heart a solitude I sought,
The haunt of many leaves--a cool retreat--
And mused of strife with untold interest fraught;
Of homes; of bloody battles to be fought;
Nor stirred till night rose stormy, and the deep
Moaned like some monster shaken in its sleep.
Then doleful sounds came up from lea and lynn
Where rain fell heavy on the gloomy deep,
As if the world, so old and sick of sin,
Had turned her face into the dark to weep.
The whole green sky is dying.The last tree flares
With a great burst of supernatural rose
Under a canopy of poisonous airs.
Could we imagine our return to prayers
To end in time before time's final throes,
The green sky dying as the last tree flares?
But we were young in judgement, old in years
Who could make peace; but it was war we chose,
To spread its canopy of poisoning airs.
Not all our children's pleas and women's fears
Could steer us from this hell.And now God knows
His whole green sky is dying as it flares.
Our crops of wheat have turned to fields of tares.
This dreadful century staggers to its close
And the sky dies for us, its poisoned heirs.
All rain was dust.Its granules were our tears.
Throats burst as universal winter rose
To kill the whole green sky, the last tree bare
Beneath its canopy of poisoned air.
I THINK it better that in times like these
A poet's mouth be silent, for in truth
We have no gift to set a statesman right;
He has had enough of medding who can please
A young girl in the indolence of her youth,
Or an old man upon a winter's night.
Well I have and in fact
more than one and I'll
tell you this too
I wrote one against
Algeria that nightmare
and another against
Korea and another
against the one
I was in
and I don't remember
how many against
the three
when I was a boy
Abyssinia Spain and
Harlan County
and not one
breath was restored
to one
shattered throat
mans womans or childs
not one not
one
but death went on and on
never looking aside
except now and then
with a furtive half-smile
to make sure I was noticing.
Snow is a strange white word.
No ice or frost
Has asked of bud or bird
For Winter's cost.
Yet ice and frost and snow
From earth to sky
This Summer land doth know.
No man knows why.
In all men's hearts it is.
Some spirit old
Hath turned with malign kiss
Our lives to mould.
Red fangs have torn His face.
God's blood is shed.
He mourns from His lone place
His children dead.
O! ancient crimson curse!
Corrode, consume.
Give back this universe
Its pristine bloom.
Great God, whom heav'n, and earth, and sea.
With all their countless hosts, obey,
Upheld by whom the nations stand,
And empires fall at thy command:
Beneath thy long suspended ire
Let papal Antichrist expire;
Thy knowledge spread from sea to sea,
'Till every nation bows to thee.
Then shew thyself the prince of peace,
Make every hostile efforts cease:
All with thy sacred love inspire,
And burn their chariots in the fire.
In sunder break each warlike spear;
Let all the Saviour's liv'ry wear;
The universal Sabbath prove,
The utmost rest of Christian love!
The world shall then no discord know,
But hand in hand to Canaan go,
Jesus, the peaceful king, adore,
And learn the art of war no more.
Now light the candles; one; two; there’s a moth;
What silly beggars they are to blunder in
And scorch their wings with glory, liquid flame—
No, no, not that,—it’s bad to think of war,
When thoughts you’ve gagged all day come back to scare you;
And it’s been proved that soldiers don’t go mad
Unless they lose control of ugly thoughts
That drive them out to jabber among the trees.
Now light your pipe; look, what a steady hand.
Draw a deep breath; stop thinking; count fifteen,
And you’re as right as rain...
Why won’t it rain?...
I wish there’d be a thunder-storm to-night,
With bucketsful of water to sluice the dark,
And make the roses hang their dripping heads.
Books; what a jolly company they are,
Standing so quiet and patient on their shelves,
Dressed in dim brown, and black, and white, and green,
And every kind of colour. Which will you read?
Come on; O do read something; they’re so wise.
I tell you all the wisdom of the world
Is waiting for you on those shelves; and yet
You sit and gnaw your nails, and let your pipe out,
And listen to the silence: on the ceiling
There’s one big, dizzy moth that bumps and flutters;
And in the breathless air outside the house
The garden waits for something that delays.
There must be crowds of ghosts among the trees,—
Not people killed in battle,—they’re in France,—
But horrible shapes in shrouds—old men who died
Slow, natural deaths,—old men with ugly souls,
Who wore their bodies out with nasty sins.
. . . .
You’re quiet and peaceful, summering safe at home;
You’d never think there was a bloody war on!...
O yes, you would ... why, you can hear the guns.
Hark! Thud, thud, thud,—quite soft ... they never cease—
Those whispering guns—O Christ, I want to go out
And screech at them to stop—I’m going crazy;
I’m going stark, staring mad because of the guns.
He was the sort of man
who wouldn't hurt a fly.
Many flies are now alive
while he is not.
He was not my patron.
He preferred full granaries, I battle.
My roar meant slaughter.
Yet here we are together
in the same museum.
That's not what I see, though, the fitful
crowds of staring children
learning the lesson of multi-
cultural obliteration, sic transit
and so on.
I see the temple where I was born
or built, where I held power.
I see the desert beyond,
where the hot conical tombs, that look
from a distance, frankly, like dunces' hats,
hide my jokes: the dried-out flesh
and bones, the wooden boats
in which the dead sail endlessly
in no direction.
What did you expect from gods
with animal heads?
Though come to think of it
the ones made later, who were fully human
were not such good news either.
Favour me and give me riches,
destroy my enemies.
That seems to be the gist.
Oh yes: And save me from death.
In return we're given blood
and bread, flowers and prayer,
and lip service.
Maybe there's something in all of this
I missed. But if it's selfless
love you're looking for,
you've got the wrong goddess.
I just sit where I'm put, composed
of stone and wishful thinking:
that the deity who kills for pleasure
will also heal,
that in the midst of your nightmare,
the final one, a kind lion
will come with bandages in her mouth
and the soft body of a woman,
and lick you clean of fever,
and pick your soul up gently by the nape of the neck
and caress you into darkness and paradise.
Presented with glamor
Fire and fury of war
Dark side of our heart
Ho! is there any will ride with me,
Sir Giles, le bon des barrières?
The clink of arms is good to hear,
The flap of pennons fair to see;
Ho! is there any will ride with me,
Sir Giles, le bon des barrières?
The leopards and lilies are fair to see;
"St. George Guienne" right good to hear:
Ho! is there any will ride with me,
Sir Giles, le bon des barrières?
I stood by the barrier,
My coat being blazon'd fair to see;
Ho! is there any will ride with me,
Sir Giles, le bon des barrières?
Clisson put out his head to see,
And lifted his basnet up to hear;
I pulled him through the bars to ME,
Sir Giles, le bon des barrières.
In fifty years, when peace outshines
Remembrance of the battle lines,
Adventurous lads will sigh and cast
Proud looks upon the plundered past.
On summer morn or winter's night,
Their hearts will kindle for the fight,
Reading a snatch of soldier-song,
Savage and jaunty, fierce and strong;
And through the angry marching rhymes
Of blind regret and haggard mirth,
They'll envy us the dazzling times
When sacrifice absolved our earth.
Some ancient man with silver locks
Will lift his weary face to say:
'War was a fiend who stopped our clocks
Although we met him grim and gay.'
And then he'll speak of Haig's last drive,
Marvelling that any came alive
Out of the shambles that men built
And smashed, to cleanse the world of guilt.
But the boys, with grin and sidelong glance,
Will think, 'Poor grandad's day is done.'
And dream of lads who fought in France
And lived in time to share the fun.
Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war
How to divide the conquest of thy sight;
Mine eye my heart thy picture's sight would bar,
My heart mine eye the freedom of that right,
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie—
A closet never pierced with crystal eyes—
But the defendant doth that plea deny,
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
To 'cide this title is impanellèd
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
And by their verdict is determinèd
The clear eye's moiety, and the dear heart's part.
As thus, mine eye's due is thy outward part,
And my heart's right thy inward love of heart.
I feel the Spring far off, far off,
The faint far scent of bud and leaf--
Oh how can Spring take heart to come
To a world in grief,
Deep grief?
The sun turns north, the days grow long,
Later the evening star grows bright--
How can the daylight linger on
For men to fight,
Still fight?
The grass is waking in the ground,
Soon it will rise and blow in waves--
How can it have the heart to sway
Over the graves,
New graves?
Under the boughs where lovers walked
The apple-blooms will shed their breath--
But what of all the lovers now
Parted by death,
Gray Death?
When your rationale for going to war
turns out to be false,
claim that you would have
gone to war anyway.
If critics question your rationale,
label them liberals and question their patriotism.
When one of your aides
is found to have been particularly vocal
about the nonexistent threat,
promote her to Secretary of State.
When poor intelligence leads you into war,
award a medal of honor to the intelligence chief.
When one of your aides is found to have
provided written support for torturing prisoners of war,
promote him to Attorney General.
(Also claim that they were not technically “prisoners of war, ”
so you can treat them however you want.)
Ignore important global institutions
in order to teach your enemy that
he cannot ignore important global institutions.
If critics question this hypocrisy,
claim that they are supporting the enemy leader.
Make sure you have allies in your war so that
you can call the troops “coalition forces, ”
even if 95% of the “allies” are offering only token troops.
If critics question whether you have a true coalition,
claim that the critics are besmirching the good names
of those allied countries.
If your major allies refuse to join you in the war,
ridicule them, boycott them, call them old-fashioned,
and claim that they have ulterior motives.
But be sure to praise them when you crawl back to them
to ask for money to help pay for rebuilding.
When the war is becoming far more expensive than anticipated,
point out that the cost is only a fraction of the nation’s GDP.
Of course, when you want to cut the funding for a social program,
simply claim that it is too expensive
regardless of it’s miniscule share of the GDP.
Always be dismissive of the critics of your war.
No matter what they say,
label them liberals and question their patriotism.
Claim that if they disagree with you,
then by definition they are on the side of the enemy.
You must paint them as being unsupportive of the troops
even though their objective is to save the lives of the troops.
If your critics wave the nation’s flag,
you must wave it even more.
Suggest that since you believe Jesus to be your savior,
then by definition you cannot make errors in moral judgment
and thus the war is morally correct.
Never apologize.
You have nothing to apologize for.
Never admit mistakes
They are not mistakes if you don’t recognize them as such.
"Tell brave deeds of war."
Then they recounted tales, --
"There were stern stands
And bitter runs for glory."
Ah, I think there were braver deeds.
'Twas in the year of 1874, and on New Year's Day,
The British Army landed at Elmina without dismay,
And numbering in all, 1400 bayonets strong,
And all along the Cape Coast they fearlessly marched along,
Under the command of Sir Garnet Wolseley, a hero bold,
And an honour to his King and country, be it told.
And between them and Coomassie, lay a wilderness of jungle,
But they marched on boldly without making a stumble,
And under a tropical sun, upwards of an hundred miles,
While their bayonets shone bright as they marched on in files.
Coomassie had to be reached and King Coffee's power destroyed,
And, before that was done the British were greatly annoyed,
Lieutenant Lord Gifford, with his men gained the Crest of the Adenisi Hills,
And when they gained the top, with joy their hearts fills.
Sir John McLeod was appointed General of the Black Brigade;
And a great slaughter of the enemy they made,
And took possession of an Ashantee village,
And fought like lions in a fearful rage.
While the British troops most firmly stood,
And advanced against a savage horde concealed in a wood,
Yet the men never flinched, but entered the wood fearlessly,
And all at once the silence was broken by a roar of musketry.
And now the fight began in real earnest,
And the Black Watch men resolved to do their best,
While the enemy were ambushed in the midst of the wood,
Yet the Highlanders their ground firmly stood.
And the roar of the musketry spread through the jungle,
Still the men crept on without making a stumble,
And many of the Black Watch fell wounded and dead,
And Major Macpherson was wounded, but he rallied his men without dread.
The battle raged for five hours, but the Highlanders were gaining ground,
Until the bagpipes struck up their wild clarion sound,
Then the dusky warriors fled in amazement profound,
Because their comrades were falling on every side around.
Sir Archibald Alison led on the Highland Brigade,
And great havoc amongst the enemy they made,
And village after village they captured and destroyed,
Until King Coffee lost heart and felt greatly annoyed.
Sir John McLeod took the command of his own regiment,
And with a swinging pace into the jaws of death they went,
Fearlessly firing by companies in rotation,
Add dashed into a double Zone of Fire without hesitation.
And in that manner the Black Watch pressed onward,
And the enemy were powerless their progress to retard,
Because their glittering bayonets were brought into play,
And panic stricken the savage warriors fled in great dismay.
Then Sir Garnet Wolseley with his men entered Coomassie at night,
Supported by half the rifles and Highlanders- a most beautiful sight,
And King Coffee and his army had fled,
And thousands of his men on the field were left dead.
And King Coffee, he was crushed at last,
And the poor King felt very downcast,
And his sorrow was really profound,
When he heard that Coomassie was burned to the ground.
Then the British embarked for England without delay,
And with joy their hearts felt gay,
And by the end of March they reached England,
And the reception they received was very grand.
WRITTEN FOR LORADO TAFT'S STATUE OF BLACK HAWK AT OREGON, ILLINOIS
To be given in the manner of the Indian Oration and the Indian War-Cry.
Hawk of the Rocks,
Yours is our cause to-day.
Watching your foes
Here in our war array,
Young men we stand,
Wolves of the West at bay.
Power, power for war
Comes from these trees divine;
Power from the boughs,
Boughs where the dew-beads shine,
Power from the cones
Yea, from the breath of the pine!
Power to restore
All that the white hand mars.
See the dead east
Crushed with the iron cars—
Chimneys black
Blinding the sun and stars!
Hawk of the pines,
Hawk of the plain-winds fleet,
You shall be king
There in the iron street,
Factory and forge
Trodden beneath your feet.
There will proud trees
Grow as they grow by streams.
There will proud thoughts
Walk as in warrior dreams.
There will proud deeds
Bloom as when battle gleams!
Warriors of Art,
We will hold council there,
Hewing in stone
Things to the trapper fair,
Painting the gray
Veils that the spring moons wear,
This our revenge,
This one tremendous change:
Making new towns,
Lit with a star-fire strange,
Wild as the dawn
Gilding the bison-range.
All the young men
Chanting your cause that day,
Red-men, new-made
Out of the Saxon clay,
Strong and redeemed,
Bold in your war-array!
1917
For here lay the excellent wisdom of him that built Mansoul, that the walls could never be broken down nor hurt by the most mighty adverse potentate unless the townsmen gave consent thereto. --Bunyan's Holy War.
A tinker out of Bedford,
A vagrant oft in quod,
A privet under Fairfax,
A minister of God--
Two hundred years and thirty
Ere Armageddon came
His single hand portrayed it,
And Bunyan was his name!
He mapped for those who follow,
The world in which we are--
"This famous town of Mansoul"
That takes the Holy War.
Her true and traitor people,
The gates along her wall,
From Eye Gate unto Feel Gate,
John Bunyan showed them all.
All enemy divisions,
Recruits of every class,
And highly-screened positions
For flame or poison-gas;
The craft that we call modern,
The crimes that we call new,
John Bunyan had 'em typed and filed
In sixteen Eighty-two.
Likewise the Lords of Looseness
That hamper faith and works,
The Perseverance-Doubters,
And Present-Comfort shirks,
With brittle intellectuals
Who crack beneath a strain--
John Bunyan met that helpful set
In Charles the Second's reign.
Emmanuel's vanguard dying
For right and not for rights,
My Lord Apollyon lying
To the State-kept Stockholmites,
The Pope, the swithering Neutrals
The Kaiser and his Gott--
Their roles, their goals, their naked souls--
He knew and drew the lot.
Now he hath left his quarters,
In Bunhill Fields to lie,
The wisdom that he taught us
Is proven prophecy--
One watchword through our Armies,
One answer from our Lands:--
"No dealings with Diabolus
As long as Mansoul stands!"
A pedlar from a hovel,
The lowest of the low,
The Father of the Novel,
Salvation's first Defoe,
Eight blinded generations
Ere Armageddon came,
He showed us how to meet it,
And Bunyan was his name!
I came to join a 'Peace Force,
To stop fighting, murder, war.
But now the war has started,
The 'Peace Force' is no more.
The fighting goes on - forever,
The murder has no because,
Just who wanted this stupid war?
I'd like life the way it was.
The way life was before the Bomb,
Before they slaughtered earth.
Before they killed the human race,
What was it really worth.
The generals in their office,
(Now floating round in space) !
Shake each others hands,
And put on a brave face.
Tiny peices of rock float by,
They used to be our world.
Now everything we loved is destroyed,
But the generals say we won.
You young friskies who today
Jump and fight in Father’s hay
With bows and arrows and wooden spears,
Playing at Royal Welch Fusiliers,
Happy though these hours you spend,
Have they warned you how games end?
Boys, from the first time you prod
And thrust with spears of curtain-rod,
From the first time you tear and slash
Your long-bows from the garden ash,
Or fit your shaft with a blue jay feather,
Binding the split tops together,
From that same hour by fate you’re bound
As champions of this stony ground,
Loyal and true in everything,
To serve your Army and your King,
Prepared to starve and sweat and die
Under some fierce foreign sky,
If only to keep safe those joys
That belong to British boys,
To keep young Prussians from the soft
Scented hay of father’s loft,
And stop young Slavs from cutting bows
And bendy spears from Welsh hedgerows.
Another War soon gets begun,
A dirtier, a more glorious one;
Then, boys, you’ll have to play, all in;
It’s the cruellest team will win.
So hold your nose against the stink
And never stop too long to think.
Wars don’t change except in name;
The next one must go just the same,
And new foul tricks unguessed before
Will win and justify this War.
Kaisers and Czars will strut the stage
Once more with pomp and greed and rage;
Courtly ministers will stop
At home and fight to the last drop;
By the million men will die
In some new horrible agony;
And children here will thrust and poke,
Shoot and die, and laugh at the joke,
With bows and arrows and wooden spears,
Playing at Royal Welch Fusiliers.
War's a joke for me and you,
Wile we know such dreams are true.
- Siegfried Sassoon
Out there, we've walked quite friendly up to Death,-
Sat down and eaten with him, cool and bland,-
Pardoned his spilling mess-tins in our hand.
We've sniffed the green thick odour of his breath,-
Our eyes wept, but our courage didn't writhe.
He's spat at us with bullets and he's coughed
Shrapnel. We chorussed when he sang aloft,
We whistled while he shaved us with his scythe.
Oh, Death was never enemy of ours!
We laughed at him, we leagued with him, old chum.
No soldier's paid to kick against His powers.
We laughed, -knowing that better men would come,
And greater wars: when each proud fighter brags
He wars on Death, for lives; not men, for flags.
There was crimson clash of war.
Lands turned black and bare;
Women wept;
Babes ran, wondering.
There came one who understood not these things.
He said, "Why is this?"
Whereupon a million strove to answer him.
There was such intricate clamour of tongues,
That still the reason was not.
I.
Yonder, with eyes that tears, not distance, dim,
With ears the wide world's thickness cannot daunt,
We see tumultuous miseries that haunt
The night's dead watches, hear the battle hymn
Of ruin shrieking through the music grim,
Where the red spectre straddles, long and gaunt,
Spitting across the seas his hideous taunt
At those who nurse at home the unwounded limb.
What shall we say, who, drawing indolent breath,
Mark the quick pant of those who, full of hate,
Drive home the steel or loose the shrieking shell,
Heroes or Huns, who smite the grin of death
And laugh or curse beneath the blows of fate,
Swept madly to the thudding heart of hell?
II.
O peace, be still! Let no drear whirlwind sweep
Our souls about the vault, that groans or yells
In travail of the brood of Fear, and swells
Stupendous with new monsters of the deep.
This is no day to wring the hands and weep,
No hour for hopeless tolling and clash of bells.
Faith is no faith if god or demon quells
One hope or drugs it to uneasy sleep.
What you have shed man's blood for, fight for still
In world-wide conflict, joining hand with hand;
Hate fear and hatred and the seed thereof,
And, since you have struck for Freedom, do her will
And smash the barriers parting land from land,
Unfaltering armies of immortal love.
O living pictures of the dead,
O songs without a sound,
O fellowship whose phantom tread
Hallows a phantom ground --
How in a gleam have these revealed
The faith we had not found.
We have sought God in a cloudy Heaven,
We have passed by God on earth:
His seven sins and his sorrows seven,
His wayworn mood and mirth,
Like a ragged cloak have hid from us
The secret of his birth.
Brother of men, when now I see
The lads go forth in line,
Thou knowest my heart is hungry in me
As for thy bread and wine;
Thou knowest my heart is bowed in me
To take their death for mine.
Reflections on the poet's youth. An apostrophe to Selma. Oscar obtains leave to go to Inis-thona, an island of Scandinavia. The mournful story of Argon and Ruro, the two sons of the king of Inis-thona. Oscar revenges their death, and returns in triumph to Selma. A soliloquy by the poet himself.
Our youth is like the dream of the hunter on the hill of heath. He sleeps in the mild beams of the sun: he awakes amidst a storm; the red lightning flies around: trees shake their heads to the wind! He looks back with joy on the day of the sun, and the pleasant dreams of his rest! When shall Ossian's youth return? When his ear delight in the sound of arms? When shall I, like Oscar, travel in the light of my steel? Come with your streams, ye hills of Cona! listen to the voice of Ossian. The song rises, like the sun, in my soul. I feel the joys of other times.
I behold thy towers, O Selma! the oaks of thy shaded wall: thy streams sound in my ear; thy heroes gather round. Fingal sits in the midst. He leans on the shield of Trenmor; his spear stands against the wall; he listens to the songs of his bards. The deeds of his arm are heard; the actions of the king in his youth! Oscar had returned from the chase, and heard the hero's praise. He took the shield of Branno from the wall; his eyes were filed with tears. Red was the cheek of youth. His voice was trembling low. My spear shook its bright head in his hand: he spoke to Morven's king.
"Fingal! thou king of heroes! Ossian, next to him in war! ye have fought in your youth; your names are renowned in song. Oscar is like the mist of Cona; I appear and I vanish away. The bard will not know my name. The hunter will not search in the heath for my tomb. Let me fight, O heroes, in the battles of Inis-thona. Distant is the land of my war! ye shall not hear of Oscar's fall: some bard may find me there; some bard may give my name to song. The daughter of the stranger shall see my tomb, and weep over the youth, that came from afar. The bard shall say, at the feast, Hear the song of Oscar from the distant land!"
" Oscar," replied the king of Morven, " thou shalt fight, son of my fame! Prepare my dark-bosomed ship to carry my hero to Inis-thona. Son of my son, regard our fame; thou art of the race of renown: let not the children of strangers say, Feeble are the sons of Morven! Be thou, in battle, a roaring storm: mild as the evening sun in peace! Tell, Oscar, to Inis-thona's king, that Fingal remembers his youth; when we strove in the combat together, in the days of Agandecca."
They lifted up the sounding sail: the wind whistled through the thongs of their masts. Waves lashed the oozy rocks: the strength of ocean roars. My son beheld, from the wave, the land of groves. He rushed into Runa's sounding bay, and sent his sword to Annir of spears. The gray-headed hero rose, when he saw the sword of Fingal. His eyes were full of tears; he remembered his battles in youth. Twice had they lifted the spear before the lovely Agandecca.: heroes stood far distant, as if two spirits were striving in winds.
" But now," began the king, " I am old; the Sword lies useless in my hall. Thou who art of Morven's race! Annir has seen the battle of spears; but now he is pale and withered, like the oak of Lano. I have no son to meet thee with joy, to bring thee to the halls of his fathers. Argon is pale in the tomb, and Ruro is no more. My daughter is in the hall of strangers: she longs to behold my tomb. Her spouse shakes ten thousand spears; he comes a cloud of death from Lano. Come, to share the feast of Annir, son of echoing Morven?
Three days they feasted together. On the fourth, Annir heard the name of Oscar. They rejoiced in the shell. They pursued the boars of Runa. Beside the fount of mossy stones the weary heroes rest. The tear steals in secret from Annir: he broke the rising sigh. "Here darkly rest," the hero said, "the children of my youth. This stone is the tomb of Ruro; that tree sounds over the grave of Argon. Do ye hear my voice, O my sons, within your narrow house? Or do ye speak in these rustling leaves, when the wind of the desert rises?"
"King of Inis-thona," said Oscar, "how fell the children of youth? The wild boar rushes over their tombs, but he does not disturb their repose. They pursue deer formed of clouds, and bend their airy bow. They still love the sport of their youth; and mount the wind with joy."
"Cormalo," replied the king, " is a chief of ten thousand spears. He dwells at the waters of Lano which sends forth the vapor of death. He came to Runa's echoing halls, and sought the honor of the spear. The youth was lovely as the first beam of the sun; few were they who could meet him in fight. My heroes yielded to Cormalo; my daughter was seized in his love. Argon and Ruro returned from the chase; the tears of their pride descend: they roll their silent eyes on Runa's heroes, who had yielded to stranger. Three days they feasted with Cormalo; on the fourth young Argon fought. But who could light with Argon? Cormalo is overcome. His heart swelled with the grief of pride; he resolved in secret to behold the death of my sons. They went to the hills of Runa; they pursued the dark-brown hinds. The arrow of Cormalo flew in secret; my children fell in blood. He came to the maid of his love; to Inis-thona's long-haired maid. They fled over the desert, Annir remained alone. Night came on, and day appeared; nor Argon's voice nor Ruro's came. At length their much-loved dog was seen; the fleet and bounding Runa. He came into the hall and howled; and seemed to look towards the place of their fall. We followed him; we found them here: we laid them by this mossy stream. This is the haunt of Annir, when the chase of the hinds is past. I bend like the trunk of an aged oak; my tears for ever flow!"
" O Ronnan!" said the rising Oscar, "Osgar, king of spears! call my heroes to my side, the sons of streamy Morven. To-day we go to Lano's water, that sends forth the vapor of death. Cormalo will not long rejoice: death is often at the point of our swords!"
They came over the desert like stormy clouds, when the winds roll them along the heath; their edges are tinged with lightning; the echoing groves foresee the storm! The horn of Oscar's battle is heard; Lano shook over all its waves. The children of the lake convened around the sounding shield of Cormalo. Oscar fought as he was wont in war. Cormalo fell beneath his sword: the sons of dismal Lano fled to their secret vales! Oscar brought the daughter of Inis-thona to Annir's echoing halls. The face of age is bright with joy; he blest the king of swords.
How great was the joy of Ossian, when he beheld the distant sail of his son! it was like a cloud of light that rises in the east, when the traveller is sad in a land unknown: and dismal night with her ghosts, is sitting around in shades! We brought him with songs to Selma's halls. Fingal spread the feast of shells. A thousand bards raised the name of Oscar: Morven answered to the sound. The daughter of Toscar was there; her voice was like the harp, when the distant sound comes in the evening, on the soft rustling breeze of the vale!
O lay me, ye that see the light, near some rock of my hills! let the thick hazels be around, let the rustling oak be near. Green be the place of my rest; let the sound of the distant torrent be heard. Daughter of Toscar, take the harp, and raise the lovely song of Selma; that sleep may overtake my soul in the midst of joy; that the dreams of my youth may return, and the days of the mighty Fingal. Selma! I behold thy towers, thy trees, thy shaded wall! I see the heroes of Morven; I hear the song of bards: Oscar lifts the sword of Cormalo; a thousand youths admire its studded thongs. They look with wonder on my son: they admire the strength of his arm. They mark the joy of his father's eyes; they long for an equal fame, and ye shall have your fame, O sons of streamy Morven! My soul is often brightened with song; I remember the friends of my youth. But sleep descends in the sound of the harp! pleasant dreams begin to rise! Ye Sons of the chase, stand far distant nor disturb my rest The bard of other times holds discourse with his fathers! the chiefs of the days of old! Sons of the chase, stand far distant! disturb not the dreams of Ossian!
The child abuse has been the war of the children
It is going on for too long in a world like this
The children is the victim of it
It is the children who suffers more each day
Stop the child abuse now
We want to put an end to this war
Make the public aware that this exists
Love the children with all your heart
Make the children feel worth
Make them feel special
Show them respect and let them respect you
Because respect and love is a two way thing
Respect the children wishes
Make this world a safe place for our children
Teach them to listened
Let them feel welcome in this world
Let the children live there lives
When you abuse the children
You break there hearts, you are destroying there dreams
And the respect they have for you is lost
What do you get when you abuse the children?
You get no satisfaction
The children have lost there sense of worth
They don’t feel special anymore
And they don’t feel safe anymore
The children know whom they can trust and whom they can’t
Help the children to grow in a safe environment
Feel there hearts with laughter and take there sadness away
Give them the support they need each day as they live there lives
The mountain sheep are sweeter,
But the valley sheep are fatter;
We therefore deemed it meeter
To carry off the latter.
We made an expedition;
We met a host, and quelled it;
We forced a strong position,
And killed the men who held it.
On Dyfed's richest valley,
Where herds of kine were browsing,
We made a mighty sally,
To furnish our carousing.
Fierce warriors rushed to meet us;
We met them, and o'erthrew them:
They struggled hard to beat us;
But we conquered them, and slew them.
As we drove our prize at leisure,
The king marched forth to catch us:
His rage surpassed all measure,
But his people could not match us.
He fled to his hall-pillars;
And, ere our force we led off,
Some sacked his house and cellars,
While others cut his head off.
We there, in strife bewild'ring,
Spilt blood enough to swim in:
We orphaned many children,
And widowed many women.
The eagles and the ravens
We glutted with our foemen;
The heroes and the cravens,
The spearmen and the bowmen.
We brought away from battle,
And much their land bemoaned them,
Two thousand head of cattle,
And the head of him who owned them:
Ednyfed, king of Dyfed,
His head was borne before us;
His wine and beasts supplied our feasts,
And his overthrow, our chorus.
I
They gave us a war that nobody wanted
The warnings unheard or simply discounted
The men of the Pentagon surely undaunted
Gave us a war that nobody wanted
II
The weapoms of war are tested and counted
Military hardware displayed and dismounted
Allies ignored and the enemy taunted
They gave us a war that nobody wanted
III
Divisions of men and weaponry flaunted
Ships tanks and planes in quantity granted
By death and destruction civilians are haunted
They gave us a war that nobody wanted
IV
Prime ministers presidents and generals have ranted
Television pictures and news are being slanted
Voices are raised and slogans are chanted
They gave us a war that nobody wanted
V
High powered weapoms and missiles are vaunted
The guns have been fired and the bombs have been planted
All shall be well when the foe is surmounted
They gave us a war that nobody wanted
VI
When the conflict is over and the story recounted
We'll forget the destruction and horror implanted
But remember the soldiers and statesman enchanted
By this terrible war that nobody wanted
A cloud has lowered that shall not soon pass o'er.
The world takes sides: whether for impious aims
With Tyranny whose bloody toll enflames
A generous people to heroic war;
Whether with Freedom, stretched in her own gore,
Whose pleading hands and suppliant distress
Still offer hearts that thirst for Righteousness
A glorious cause to strike or perish for.
England, which side is thine? Thou hast had sons
Would shrink not from the choice however grim,
Were Justice trampled on and Courage downed;
Which will they be -- cravens or champions?
Oh, if a doubt intrude, remember him
Whose death made Missolonghi holy ground.
It doesn’t matter what’s the cause,
What wrong they say we’re righting,
A curse for treaties, bonds and laws,
When we’re to do the fighting!
And since we lads are proud and true,
What else remains to do?
Lucasta, when to France your man
Returns his fourth time, hating war,
Yet laughs as calmly as he can
And flings an oath, but says no more,
That is not courage, that’s not fear—
Lucasta he’s a Fusilier,
And his pride sends him here.
Let statesmen bluster, bark and bray,
And so decide who started
This bloody war, and who’s to pay,
But he must be stout-hearted,
Must sit and stake with quiet breath,
Playing at cards with Death.
Don’t plume yourself he fights for you;
It is no courage, love, or hate,
But let us do the things we do;
It’s pride that makes the heart be great;
It is not anger, no, nor fear—
Lucasta he’s a Fusilier,
And his pride keeps him here.
THOU who hast slept all night upon the storm,
Waking renew'd on thy prodigious pinions,
(Burst the wild storm? above it thou ascended'st,
And rested on the sky, thy slave that cradled thee,)
Now a blue point, far, far in heaven floating,
As to the light emerging here on deck I watch thee,
(Myself a speck, a point on the world's floating vast.)
Far, far at sea,
After the night's fierce drifts have strewn the shores with wrecks,
With re-appearing day as now so happy and serene,                  10
The rosy and elastic dawn, the flashing sun,
The limpid spread of air cerulean,
Thou also re-appearest.
Thou born to match the gale, (thou art all wings,)
To cope with heaven and earth and sea and hurricane,
Thou ship of air that never furl'st thy sails,
Days, even weeks untired and onward, through spaces, realms gyrating,
At dusk that look'st on Senegal, at morn America,
That sport'st amid the lightning-flash and thunder-cloud,
In them, in thy experience, had'st thou my soul,                   20
What joys! what joys were thine!
Oh, not the loss of the accomplished thing!
Not dumb farewells, nor long relinquishment
Of beauty had, and golden summer spent,
And savage glory of the fluttering
Torn banners of the rain, and frosty ring
Of moon-white winters, and the imminent
Long-lunging seas, and glowing students bent
To race on some smooth beach the gull's wing:
Not these, nor all we've been, nor all we've loved,
The pitiful familiar names, had moved
Our hearts to weep for them; but oh, the star
The future is! Eternity's too wan
To give again that undefeated, far,
All-possible irradiance of dawn.
Like moon-dark, like brown water you escape,
O laughing mouth, O sweet uplifted lips.
Within the peering brain old ghosts take shape;
You flame and wither as the white foam slips
Back from the broken wave: sometimes a start,
A gesture of the hands, a way you own
Of bending that smooth head above your heart,--
Then these are varied, then the dream is gone.
Oh, you are too much mine and flesh of me
To seal upon the brain, who in the blood
Are so intense a pulse, so swift a flood
Of beauty, such unceasing instancy.
Dear unimagined brow, unvisioned face,
All beauty has become your dwelling place.
Brothers and sisters all over here fighting
Got me thinking so much now im writing
Why is there so much hate in the world
Seeing all this killing makes my stomach curl
We all need to pause and ask ourself, what are we really doing
We are turning our world into ruin
And what are we really proving
Who's the weaker or stronger human
I think were fighting for a hidden goal
But I'm being told so many lies it troubles my soul
So much he say she say dont know which side to choose
Times have gotten so bad I can't even believe what I hear in the news
At times I just want to bust my TV with a bat
Listening to all this the congress said this, but the media said that
You wish you could say it was better in the old days
But its pretty much the same thing just a new phase
War is never a good thing
But a world without war is still only a Dream.
"This war is a terrible thing," he said,
"With its countless numbers of needless dead;
A futile warfare it seems to me,
Fought for no principle I can see.
Alas, that thousands of hearts should bleed
For naught but a tyrant's boundless greed!"
* * * *
Said the wholesale grocer, in righteous mood,
As he went to adulterate salable food.
Spake as follows the merchant king:
"Isn't this war a disgusting thing?
Heartless, cruel, and useless, too;
It doesn't seem that it can be true.
Think of the misery, want and fear!
We ought to be grateful we've no war here.
* * * *
"Six a week"--to a girl--"That's flat!
I can get a thousand to work for that."
War is Peace
Peace is War
War unites against
One common enemy
Peace tears apart
A dream-like society
The fear during War
Gives control to the government
The calmness of Peace
Lets your guard down with sentiment
War causes death
Physically, Statistically
Peace ends life
Emotionally, Personally
War is Peace
Peace is War
Semantics say much of what humans have created for communication with themselves and others. They only need to dissect and de-vowel, apply given nouns to their chosen adjectives. Some making more sense than when construed to define innocent verbiage of denial and with encoded killing purpose of intent.
Acceleration makes haste where risk is taken to achieve wasteful goals that reach far beyond the muscle and brawn of evolved human male ability. Life is often said to be short and so we've created many means to live it in the proverbial fast lane, crashing into all others who get in their, each other's way.
Super speed is unforgiving of human error where sounds have become the slow poke snails,  re-sounding with screaming ear drum breaking barriers of intolerance. We thank and pay tribute to all whom have helped sprout feather-less metallic wings with mechanical hearts fed with polluting Earth's exhumed death laden fossil fuels. Once left naturally interred to rest harmlessly in peace for countless eons of time.
As irony would have its devilish purpose, so there have been humans to continue to invent and circumvent  their concern for inhuman devastation. Happiness equates to Love and Freedom. To labor and share with all whom are able, to help the infant, elderly and disabled. Plentiful are there fruits of Earth's generous cornucopia. Of plenty for all whom can cargo means to barren places where weather, water and foods are scarce and unobtainable. Not able for selfish others, to obtain and self enrich far beyond their Earth bequeathed needs to survive with contentment
Why else are there un-victorious wars to aggress upon others whom also guard their greed with weapons of competitive, horrific force? They are,  in evil deed, the robotic military minorities whom are without empathy and compassion. I for one, have yet to un-spoil the spoils that my gifted able-ness was able to earn and support myself and family. A' times, my feeling extreme guilt and yet the acquiring gifted ability to help compose words that have been said to be mightier than the sword?
No longer are we challenged with the skills of an armed swords-man-
No longer are we in admiration of Bird in Flight and Ocean Life-
No longer can we protect our thresholds with sticks and stones-
No longer will we be an intelligent specie, exhumed and respected.
To have existed and not survived our own creative destruction
To have technology root itself with venomous fruits of sweet enrichment
To have none to bequeath their sorrows over our unmarked graves
To have been cursed with human brain over animal and plant
'All this and nothing much more will remain.
Few fossils of extinct life and we -
the sorrowful dusting remnants of creatures that
once thought they possessed and ruled Earth and;
yet, failed to destroy it for themselves.'
Louie Levy
9/9/2008
Please Google search;
Poet for Peace Louie Levy
War is never over
Thought the treaties may be signed
The memories of the battles
Are forever in our minds
War is never over
So when you welcome heroes home
Remember in their minds they hold
Memories known to them alone
War is never over
Nam veterans know this well
Now other wars bring memories back
Of their own eternal hell
War is never over
For I knew world war two
And I'll not forget the battles
Or the nightmares that ensue
War is never over
Those left home to wait know this
For many still are waiting
It was their farewell kiss
War is never over
Though we win the victory
Still in our minds the battles
No freedom is not free!
Remembered
A nation born from war, for the “purpose” of establishing freedom
A nation divided in war, in an “attempt” to fulfill the goal of freedom
A nation engaged in world wars, in the task of “preserving” freedom
A nation policing the world, in the “pursuit” of freedom
So many young lives have been lost, for the “cause” of freedom
Let us remember those who paid the “ultimate price, ” for freedom
And dear God, please tell us! - “What! ” - is freedom?
We need not war
We need not war, to show us how freedom is made
What we need is love to show us how freedom is played.
For freedom is not - but to “do as we please”
But rather, to “please others, ” because of what we achieve.
No such thing!
There is no such passion as hate, - only - a mental state
Of ignorance
For what we fail to understand, from our source of knowledge
We choose the accepted norm of utter indifference
Therefore, our feelings of love, we profoundly fear to acknowledge
“Freedom” is to serve
“To serve requires love; only with love, do we obtain freedom”
8/24/06
Over at the river's bank
stands my buddy, Mellow Frank,
thinking of the German Tank
that he observed right where it sank
they saved the captain, what a crank
he chewed tobacco and he stank
with two policemen at his flank
the one a colonel, just by rank
his stare was serious, almost blank
the younger cop, looked like he shrank
from the 3 stars of higher rank
his name tag showed him to be Hank
the captain of the ship said 'WanK'
he'd set his sail at Bitterlenk.
An account of books 16-19 of the Iliad by Homer.
Down on your knees, Achilles.  Farther down.
Now forward on your hands and put your face into the dirt,
And scrub it to and fro.
Grief has you by the hair with one
And with the forceps of its other hand
Uses your mouth to trowel the dogshit up;
Watches you lift your arms to Heaven; and then
Pounces and screws your nose into the filth.
Gods have plucked drawstrings from your head,
And from the templates of your upper lip
Modelled their bows.
Not now.  Not since
Your grieving reaches out and pistol-whips
That envied face, until
Frightened to bear your black, backbreaking agony alone,
You sank, throat back, thrown back, your voice
Thrown out across the sea to reach your Source.
Break off! Dance no more!
Danger is at the door.
Music is in arms.
To signal war's alarms.
Hark, a sudden trumpet calling
Over the hill!
Why are you calling, trumpet, calling?
What is your will?
Men, men, men !
Men who are ready to fight
For their country's life, and the right
Of a liberty-loving land to be
Free, free, free!
Free from a tyrant's chain,
Free from dishonor's stain,
Free to guard and maintain
All that her fathers fought for,
All that her sons have wrought for,
Resolute, brave, and free!
Call again, trumpet, call again,
Call up the men!
Do you hear the storm of cheers
Mingled with the women's tears
And the tramp, tramp, tramp of marching feet?
Do you hear the throbbing drum
As the hosts of battle come
Keeping time, time, time to its beat?
O Music give a song
To make their spirit strong
For the fury of the tempest they must meet.
The hoarse roar
Of the monster guns;
And the sharp bark
Of the lesser guns;
The whine of the shells,
The rifles' clatter
Where the bullets patter,
The rattle, rattle, rattle
Of the mitrailleuse in battle,
And the yells
Of the men who charge through hells
Where the poison gas descends,
And the bursting shrapnel rends
Limb from limb
In the dim
Chaos and clamor of the strife
Where no man thinks of his life
But only of fighting through,
Blindly fighting through, through!
'Tis done
At last!
The victory won,
The dissonance of warfare past!
O Music mourn the dead
Whose loyal blood was shed,
And sound the taps for every hero slain;
Then lead into the song
That made their spirit strong,
And tell the world they did not die in vain.
Thank God we can see, in the glory of morn,
The invincible flag that our fathers defended;
And our hearts can repeat what the heroes have sworn,
That war shall not end till the war-lust is ended.
Then the bloodthirsty sword shall no longer be lord
Of the nations oppressed by the conqueror's horde,
But the banners of freedom shall peacefully wave
O'er the world of the free and the lands of the brave.
I'm into mental sparring -
Catharsis for the soul,
It loosens up the attitude
But often takes its toll;
It makes you feel important,
It lets you spread your wings,
But even though it feels so good
It just might ruin things;
Like laughter shared so easily
When times are going well,
And then with just one careless word
You blow it all to hell;
It isn't good to hold it in
When words you have to say,
But be prepared for consequence
Once venom starts to spray;
Sometimes you have to speak your peace
And stand up for yourself
Or folks will walk all over you
Then put you on the shelf;
A little mental sparring
Can be healthy in a way,
Just keep it to a minimum
Or there'll be hell to pay!
worlds
worlds
worlds
so many worlds
and in each world
yet so many worlds
and in each world
war..war...war
down to the tiniest creation
each foreign world
floats and sinks in its own world
a world of nature
a world of war
ever ready to
guard us against
foreign worlds
world
world
world
yet each to his own world
at least for now
Depression is a fight
Or a flight
Depression is a theif
That should be locked up
Depression steals...
Happiness
Motivation
Sleep
Your appetite
It steals your view on life
It steals how you view yourself
Sometimes it even steals your life
ague and fight
Bark and bite
come and get you in the night
Tiyler durden is ready to fight
ready to give you all his might
You gave him all your shit
and now you make it look like it
is all his fault
crying to the mods on a whim
trying to Make it worse for him
But tiyler does not give a shit
he will fight back, just like this!
He will disregard all warnings
do you truly think he cares if he is banned?
There are many places on the net
For tiyler to dwell
places not unlike this hell
but better without people who
think that they are god
and also more understanding mods!
I guess what I am saying is
Tiyler does not care about this
and I will no longer dwell In this
current shitty curse
I will no longer care
about you and your
shitty war or words!
A naked child is running
along the path toward us,
her arms stretched out,
her mouth open,
the world turned to trash
behind her.
She is running from the smoke
and the soldiers, from the bodies
of her mother and little sister
thrown down into a ditch,
from the blown-up bamboo hut
from the melted pots and pans.
And she is also running from the gods
who have changed the sky to fire
and puddled the earth with skin and blood.
She is running--my god--to us,
10,000 miles away,
reading the caption
beneath her picture
in a weekly magazine.
All over the country
we're feeling sorry for her
and being appalled at the war
being fought in the other world.
She keeps on running, you know,
after the shutter of the camera
clicks. She's running to us.
For how can she know,
her feet beating a path
on another continent?
How can she know
what we really are?
From the distance, we look
so terribly human.
Where has the dreamer gone?
Off to war.
And his dreams?
He had to lay them aside.
Will he ever dream his dreams again?
Only after the war.
Will he win the war?
Only if he returns with new dreams.
When will the war end?
Never.
Then how can he ever return home?
Only when he stops fighting.
Who will survive the war?
No one at all.
What kind of war is it?
No one knows.
Who is the enemy?
He is
War not really sure what Im fighting for
But what I know is I want war no more
We fight and we fight and we fight
Through hell, sleet, day and night
Ive seen mothers, sisters, fathers, and brothers
Ive seen aunts, uncles, cusins and so many others
All sent to this far far away land
Supporting their country with not much pay in hand
They dont do it cause they had to
They do it for all american including you
All the troops really want to know is that you care
Maybe a pat on the back or a thank you here and there
Three little letters a simple anagram of raw,
but the outcome is Death Devastation, Sorrow.
For the thousands of innocents massacred,
there is no tomorrow.
They had no choice, not even a voice, over-ruled
by the  hawks in the government,  the elected powers that be.
Willing ambassadors for the arms and oil  industry.
Purveyors of death destruction, and misery.
Do these multinationals think of the people who have lost loved ones,
Husbands, wives,  mothers, fathers, daughters, brothers, sisters and sons.
And for what.” To boost the multinational companies shareholders funds.“
Who are motivated by profits and an  insatiable greed,
they are a heartless,   selfish,  uncaring breed.
They rest peacefully in their slumber, to them, and the government hawks,
the dead, and the victims of war are just another number.
To Ezra Pound
These are the names of the companies that have made
money from this war
nineteenhundredsixtyeight Annodomini fourthousand
eighty Hebraic
These are the Corporations who have profited by merchan-
dising skinburning phosphorous or shells fragmented
to thousands of fleshpiercing needles
and here listed money millions gained by each combine for
manufacture
and here are gains numbered, index'd swelling a decade, set
in order,
here named the Fathers in office in these industries, tele-
phones directing finance,
names of directors, makers of fates, and the names of the
stockholders of these destined Aggregates,
and here are the names of their ambassadors to the Capital,
representatives to legislature, those who sit drinking
in hotel lobbies to persuade,
and separate listed, those who drop Amphetamine with
military, gossip, argue, and persuade
suggesting policy naming language proposing strategy, this
done for fee as ambassadors to Pentagon, consul-
tants to military, paid by their industry:
and these are the names of the generals & captains mili-
tary, who know thus work for war goods manufactur-
ers;
and above these, listed, the names of the banks, combines,
investment trusts that control these industries:
and these are the names of the newspapers owned by these
banks
and these are the names of the airstations owned by these
combines;
and these are the numbers of thousands of citizens em-
ployed by these businesses named;
and the beginning of this accounting is 1958 and the end
1968, that static be contained in orderly mind,
coherent and definite,
and the first form of this litany begun first day December
1967 furthers this poem of these States.
They say our world is truly round
and that the borders are not real,
as in the airspace can be found
God's promise and his lone appeal.
The clouds do travel far and wide,
helped by the clever winds of change,
give shelter to the moon to hide
and cry their tears onto the range.
Life-giving as it is for crops,
it cleans all bird and insect wings,
but is it true that falling drops
are sparkling, tumbling, happy things?
And if they are, once they arrive
to visit roots and thirsty flowers,
they rest a bit but stay alive
until the early morning hours.
When in the village can be seen
the Sandman as he aims to leave
and Dawn rolls in to change the scene
the Moon wipes tears off with his sleeve.
A magic mist now rises sweetly
from rooftops, cotton-candy-blue,
a million raindrops drifting neatly
returning gladly, to renew.
My love, the war still has some life,
a raucous ocean separates
me from the one to be my wife,
God, breathe some sense into those states!
Until we meet again, I say
go find the biggest darkest cloud.
The one that's travelled a long way,
stand under it and wish out loud
that twelve bright drops come straight from me,
then kiss each one, yes, kiss them all.
They'll rise as Dew then to be free
and I'll be waiting as they fall.
War. And war some more.
War. And war some more.
No one knows,
What it's for,
War. And war some more.
The images seem
To rule the day,
War and Generals,
All the same,
All the answers,
Seem so lame,
All our reason,
Gone insane.
War. And war some more.
War. And war some more.
No one knows,
What it's for,
War. And war some more.
In anguish we uplift
A new unhallowed song:
The race is to the swift;
The battle to the strong.
Of old it was ordained
That we, in packs like curs,
Some thirty million trained
And licensed murderers,
In crime should live and act,
If cunning folk say sooth
Who flay the naked fact
And carve the heart of truth.
The rulers cry aloud,
"We cannot cancel war,
The end and bloody shroud
Of wrongs the worst abhor,
And order's swaddling band:
Know that relentless strife
Remains by sea and land
The holiest law of life.
From fear in every guise,
From sloth, from lust of pelf,
By war's great sacrifice
The world redeems itself.
War is the source, the theme
Of art; the goal, the bent
And brilliant academe
Of noble sentiment;
The augury, the dawn
Of golden times of grace;
The true catholicon,
And blood-bath of the race."
We thirty million trained
And licensed murderers,
Like zanies rigged, and chained
By drill and scourge and curse
In shackles of despair
We know not how to break --
What do we victims care
For art, what interest take
In things unseen, unheard?
Some diplomat no doubt
Will launch a heedless word,
And lurking war leap out!
We spell-bound armies then,
Huge brutes in dumb distress,
Machines compact of men
Who once had consciences,
Must trample harvests down --
Vineyard, and corn and oil;
Dismantle town by town,
Hamlet and homestead spoil
On each appointed path,
Till lust of havoc light
A blood-red blaze of wrath
In every frenzied sight.
In many a mountain pass,
Or meadow green and fresh,
Mass shall encounter mass
Of shuddering human flesh;
Opposing ordnance roar
Across the swaths of slain,
And blood in torrents pour
In vain -- always in vain,
For war breeds war again!
The shameful dream is past,
The subtle maze untrod:
We recognise at last
That war is not of God.
Remember the Glories of Brien the Brave
Remember the glories of Brien the brave,
Though the days of the hero are o'er,
Though lost to Mononia and cold to the grave,
He returns to Kinkora no more.
That star of the field, which so often hath pour'd
Its beam on the battle, is set;
But enough of its glory remains on each sword,
To light us to victory yet.
Mononia! when Nature embellish'd the tint
Of thy fields, and thy mountains so fair,
Did she ever intend that a tyrant should print
The footstep of slavery there?
No! Freedom, whose smile we shall never resign,
Go, tell our invaders, the Danes,
That 'tis sweeter to bleed for an age at thy shrine,
Than to sleep but a moment in chains.
Forget not our wounded companions who stoood
In the day of distress by our side;
While the moss of the valley grew red with their blood,
They stirr'd not, but conquer'd and died.
That sun which now blesses our arms with his light,
Saw them fall upon Ossory's plain; --
Oh! let him not blush, when he leaves us to-night,
To find that they fell there in vain.
Roland cannot go to school,
his brother needs the trousers,
for shorts the weather is too cool
no clothes for rabblerousers.
The war was won by others, yup
the piper must be paid
I'll go around with paper cup
no longer so afraid.
We did respond to his Sieg Heil
yes all of us were proud
my brother walked the final mile
the cannon shot was loud.
Mankind has surely, truly learned
from all atrocities,
perhaps so many bodies burned
for man to have his peace.
Some remnant living in muscle memory
is pressed, dressed and polished each time
he marches, slowly now and with tired bones,
to the Legion for his Friday bingo.
His numbers, in all the years, haven't shown
as ex-corporal caller turns the wheel
and the same bally jokes revolve and drop,
snipered, on the half-deaf, half-dead, half-full
hall of pensioners with fat pens
and luckless grins whose week's entertainment
spins and tumbles.  Someone checks.  They groan.
He removes his specs sauntering barwards
for his first pint, shouts an old joke,
'Hey, you barsteward'
takes the barkeeps wince for a smile.
He re-enlists each Friday, soldiering on,
wishing he might 'fall-out'.
Surrender.
war...war...war...
war can kill, war can be killed
war can hurt, and war can please
war is bad, and war is good
war can bring death and war can bring joy
war is like a game there is one winner and one looser
war can be a bridge and war can be a tunnle
war can blind, war can deaf
war can help, war cant help
war is a word that has no meaning
war changes the world to great or bad
war is a simple thing
war is not evil or good
war can be stopped, war can stop
war can be nothing or it can be everything
i've been in war it is not hard and it is not easy
you dont need much to be in the war
all u need is a heart full of pride
and if u dont have that u will get shot and die
...........................................War! War! War!
...................................Is all that people talk about.
................................... .......War! War! War!
.................................Is all that people think about.
................................... ......War! War! War!
...................................Is all that we hear about.
................................... ......War! War! War!
................................Nobody cares for what it does.
.................................... ....War! War! War!
..............................Nobody listens to warnings.
................................ .....War! War! War!
........................Nobody hears the cries of death.
................................... ..War! War! War!
................It destroys lives, hopes, and dreams for peace.
................................... ...War! War! War!
........................................O how I hate it.
...................................... ....War! War! War!
......................It goes on for generations, forever, never ending.
.................................. ...........War! War! War!
............................................. ....I hate it so!
Critics welcome.
When in the course of human events, we choose to go to war, why do we choose to do what we do.
In the interest of a lasting peace,
We will go into war,
Has anyone ever simply asked what do we do it for?
Can the answer possibly be as simple as this more dead bodies, and a few less grins.
However it is very interesting to note, This time it is different, this is no Vietnam!
We are not bogged down in the jungle,
We are not fighting knee high in rice fields.
This time the war has been brought
To our very own home ground
As the terrorists so insightfully knew,
Americans swore to get even as our great WTC blew.
Now the terrorists awakened a giant and with all of our might,
We entered Afghanistan to put an end this fight,
We started in Afghanistan,
We are now headed to Iraq
Why stop there are we all done?
How about North Korea, Iran, or some place else?
How can you ever know when we are through?
Is it even possible to do what we are trying to do?
Can you ever win,
Or could you even loose,
If you didn't do anything would that even do!
This is the question about me or you,
Do you really want to start a war that will end Sometime in our grand children's lifetime?
Would a short war instead be better?
My motives are pure, we have been under attack,
Sure we should return and fight back.
And storm the very gates of the capital of Iraq!
My question posed here is not actually new,
All I ask is this what can we do?
Can you stop all wars and make people not fight,
Can you always tell people just to do right!
The answers are simple, the problems are complex,
Just how can we get ourselves out of this mess?
What have we learned in Vietnam,
That we possible could do this time around.
Have we learned that maybe we should fight against this pest
Fight against terror, put them to rest!
War. what are fighting for,
We are fighting to live more.
We simply can not go and let things boil over
Watch without action any more.
Our fight is against terror,
Our mission is clear,
This is clearly a war we will win.
War, could it be we are actually fighting it to save me and you!
In a book published by a future President in 1940, entitled When England Slept,
John Kennedy wrote that sometimes in history is it duty of democracies to stand up and fight for freedom.
Could it possibly be, this is the time,
This is the place, this is the war, and this is out fight!
We women teach our little sons how wrong
And how ignoble blows are; school and church
Support our precepts and inoculate
The growing minds with thoughts of love and peace.
‘Let dogs delight to bark and bite, ’ we say;
But human beings with immortal souls
Must rise above the methods of the brute
And walk with reason and with self-control.
And then – dear God! you men, you wise, strong men,
Our self-announced superiors in brain,
Our peers in judgement, you go forth to war!
You leap at one another, mutilate
And starve and kill your fellow men, and ask
The world’s applause for such heroic deeds.
You boast and strut; and if no song is sung,
No laudatory epic writ in blood,
Telling how many widows you have made,
Why then, penforce, you say our bards are dead
And inspiration sleeps to wake no more.
And we, the women, we whose lives you are –
What can we do but sit in silent homes
And wait and suffer?  Not for us the blare
Of trumpets and the bugle’s call to arms –
For us no waving banners, no supreme,
Triumphant hour of conquest.  Ours the slow
Dread torture of uncertainty, each day
The bootless battle with the same despair.
And when at best your victories reach our ears,
There reaches with them to our pitying hearts
The thought of countless homes made desolate
And other women weeping for their dead.
O men, wise men, superior beings, say,
Is there no substitute for war in this
Great age and ere?  If you answer ‘No’
Then let us rear our children to be wolves
And teach them from the cradle how to kill.
Why should we women take waste our time and work
In talking peace, when men declare for war?
War
As war is fought it takes charge,
And events spin out of control.
The madness of men can alter the soil
Which nourishes the roots of their soul.
Many things will forever change,
Far more then wished to be.
As the wrath of war starts to destroy,
Those things we fight to keep free.
War is the greatest plague of man,
Religion, state, and sanity.
Any scourge is more preferred,
Than the one which disables humanity.
When war breaks out, boundaries change
And all who die are a token,
Of the rage that must run it's course,
Before words of peace are spoken.
TROOP SHIP
Our ship had sailed before the dawn
Surrounded by the thickest of fog,
Still ignorant of our destination
Or what was written in the captain's log.
It didn't take long for me to see
Our cruise was not for fun;
An experience of a lifetime
With nowhere for us to run.
Twenty knots per hour we cruised
As the white caps passed us by;
Ten thousand young Americans
Off to Europe to die.
A sailor told us not to worry;
Someday we'd get our mail.
Uncle Sam would make sure
No matter how far we sail.
Thirty feet deep I tried to sleep
Beneath our ship's waterline,
Just the place for claustrophobia
To enter into my mind.
My favorite vest was my May West
Which I wore all the time
Just in case of German U-boats
Or an underwater mine.
Thirty-three days we were at sea,
We crossed the equator twice.
Many years have passed since then,
Those years of sacrifice.
PEARL HARBOR
Sunday, December the seventh,
In the year of 1941,
While most of Hawaii still slept,
Came the planes of the Rising Sun.
Waves of bombers and fighters flew,
From the decks of the Japanese ships.
While our planes were still on the ground,
'Banzai' was spoken from their lips.
The winds of war had been blowing
Across the oceans of our earth,
Though not till Pearl had been bombed,
Did we realize what freedom's worth.
Wars are fought and won on two fronts,
At home and on the battle line.
Both are equally important,
When war consumes our heart and mind.
The attack brought us World War II,
With death, pain and separation.
All who had served were well aware
Of their sacrifice for nation.
D-DAY
D-Day raised the curtain on the conflict
That fore shadowed the end of Hitler's dream.
The largest joint combat landing ever,
Though the blood from both sides flowed like a stream.
When their boats hit the sand, their ramps went down,
And all within paid a visit to hell.
They jumped out to do good for their country,
And to kill the enemy without fail.
They fought the Germans, tides, winds and the waves,
In conditions not easily foreseen.
By night the battle was in our favor,
With bravery, valor, death, and men who scream.
The corpses littered the beach for five miles,
Though heroism had carried the day,
With literally thousands dead or wounded,
Those who were left were determined to stay.
They faced great odds and chose not to protest,
And won the war that put evil to shame.
Most came home, married and raised their babies,
But those who could not we recall with pain.
MIDWAY = 1942
It was June the 4th 1942,
As I was floating in the ocean alone;
The ship I had sailed on, sank to the bottom
And I thought I would never again, see home.
The Japanese fleet had steamed in from the east
With the intentions of capturing Midway.
Though they were stopped by American war ships,
Whose guns, bombs and torpedoes planes saved the day.
All night long, I watched the fireworks of war
And on the second day we turned up the heat.
As big bombers from Hawaii dropped their loads,
On Japanese ships who soon chose to retreat.
An imperial pilot came floating close by,
Who had been chewed on by the beasts of the sea.
I couldn't help but feel passion for this is man
Who had answered his call just like me.
When it was over, I was plucked from the deep,
By men in a lifeboat just after the dawn.
For two days I had watched the battle for, Midway;
Now it's quiet and the enemy has gone.
OKINAWA
Okinawa was to be our last stop
Before we invaded Japan.
The largest landing of the Pacific war,
As our soldiers ran across the sand.
At first our marines were scarcely opposed
But on the fifth day hell they found.
A solid wall of human resistance
Firing their weapons from caves in the ground.
Air power and big guns had little affect
On their cliff forts carved deep in the limestone.
It took man against man to root them out
As flying bullets pierced flesh and bone.
Kamikaze pilots crashed their planes
Knocking out transports and war ships.
As the Imperial air force struck our fleet,
Cries of fear and hate spewed from lips.
One hundred, ten thousand Japanese
By the end of the battle were killed.
Over twelve thousand Americans died,
Before, just our flag flew over the field.
BATTLE OF THE ATLANTIC
After the fall of France in 1940,
The Germans soon began their own blockade,
With most their efforts in the Atlantic,
Hoping to cut Britain's flow of war trade.
With fast surface raiders like the Bismarck,
Merchant ships caught at sea, had little chance.
The German's small navy sank ship after ship,
Till the British Navy destroyed war's romance.
Shipping losses from German U-boats increased,
And the battle of the Atlantic seemed lost.
But soon America would enter the war,
To defeat freedom's enemies at all cost.
Multitudes would die and their families cry,
Before World War II would be fought to its end.
What a waste of mankind, which had lost its mind,
Though now, our enemy is our friend.
P.O.W.
When you become a P.O.W.
You find you've lost your liberty and more,
The guy with the gun tells you what to do,
As you yearn for freedoms you had before.
Your will to serve helps keep you alive,
Though sometimes you wish you were dead.
Tortures far beyond any normal mind,
And there's no safety, even in your bed.
Bullets, barbwire, searchlights and sharp teeth,
Keep you in a place you don't wish to be.
The food is quite awful and sometimes it moves,
And you've no choice of what you hear or see.
The lucky are released and return home,
Though in their dreams their fate is unsure.
War may be hell, but confinement is worse,
Cause afterwards you're never as you were.
GENERAL QUARTERS
General quarters, general quarters,
All hands man your battle station!
Sunday morning, December the 7th,
As war confronted our nation.
We soon found out it wasn't a drill
But instead it was war for real.
As you watch the death of friends and shipmates,
It's more anger than fear you feel.
Japanese warplanes came flying in low,
As I took aim with my gun sight.
From the deck of a ship anchored at Pearl
Damaged, though crew still eager to fight.
I saw the face of a pilot, who crashed,
Surrounded by black smoke and fire.
Some of my bullets must have found their mark.
For his death was but my desire!
Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-three killed,
In a battle less than two hours.
With the heart of our Pacific fleet gone,
Japan had flexed their naval powers.
The bombing and strafing of ships and troops
Caused our congress to declare full war.
Where many a man laid down his life
Fighting for flag, country and more.
KENNEDY= THE WAR YEARS PT-109
After the attack on Pearl Harbor
He applied for sea duty in the war.
Where Lieutenant John F. Kennedy
Became known for his bravery and more.
In the dark hours before dawn
On August 2, of 43.
Kennedy commanded a torpedo boat
Through the blackness of night at sea.
PT 109, was on Solomon's patrol
With a 12-man crew in a plywood craft.
A Japanese destroyer plowed through the night
Ramming and cutting Kennedy's boat in half.
Two of the crew just disappeared
A third was badly burned.
Kennedy himself was thrown to the deck,
Where in pain his leadership he earned.
Some of his men had never learned to swim
As he gathered them on the bobbing bow.
The hours passed tell it seemed it would sink
So they made for an island and here's how.
He ordered those who could to swim
The others were to hang on to a beam.
Kennedy grabbed the injured sailor
And off they tread through the ocean stream.
With his teeth clenched on the burnt man's vest straps
Skipper Kennedy swam 3 miles.
5 hours later they all made it
Despite their hardships, sharks, and trials.
The next problem was how to summon up help
Without arousing the enemy all around.
After several attempts swimming to other islands
Eventually two natives in a canoe were found.
Kennedy scratch a note on a coconut
To be delivered to a base 38 miles away.
The message made it and they were saved
And their courage still lives us today.
Tom's 575 Poems Are Free To Share!
By God's Poet
Tom Zart
Most Published Poet
On The Web! 'To book Tom Zart for guest appearances, product, or services, contact Raymond L. LaPietra-Exclusive Personal Manager,913-681-7750 (office) ,,8802 W.147th Terrace Overland Park, Kansas 66221.'
It's been forty eight years since I went away,
I really wanted to go, to help my country in
some way.
It seems I like only yesterday, that I became an
American Soldier,
Going through Basic training and feeling a little
older.
Combat Engineers were the backbone of the Army
first to come, last to leave.
We arrived in England and waited our turn.
the war was raging and we waited, soon to cross
the channel, our first combat to learn
It was cold with winter and we fought our first
battle, scared of death,
We fought our way through battle after battle, until;
there were none left.
The war in Europe was finally over, over there.
We were happy, but next were the Japanese and they
were everywhere.
President Truman gave the order to drop the Atomic
Bomb,
It was an end to the war in Japan, all became
calm.
Soldiers were going home, some staying,
The ones that stayed, started playing;
A pass to Paris, France, the city of Love and
Romance,
What Soldier wouldn't cherish the chance
Finally, going home to the U.S.A., was priority
number one,
You'd had enough of the War and run out of fun.
Reckless Doctors Prescribe Antibiotics Indiscriminately
Without even having a Blood Test, just on the Go
Do You know, Viral Infections have very less Medicines
Will subside in due course on its own automatically?
Antibiotics work only for Bacterial Infections
Not for Viral Infections, Virus escape Antibiotics easily
Many had bitter experience with Qualified Doctors
Prescribing Antibiotics indiscriminately
Antibiotics kill good Bacterias in Stomach
Results, GI upset, Diarrhea, Nausea,
Antibiotics have disastrous side effects
Impaired Liver, Damaged Kidneys are most important
Oflaxacin, Cifexime, Ampicillin, Penicillin are just a few
No accountability for Doctors, Indian Doctors specifically
Don't take Antibiotics unless double sure with blood tests
Indiscriminate usage may take a big toll in health, Life threatening
Ask your Doctors, if Antibiotics are must
Check  Internet for side effects
Better  believe  Internet, Not Doctors alone
Many Doctors  do Trial and Error Medication
Check  www.nlm.nih.gov, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed
www.umm.edu/ency/,  www.wrongdiagnosis.com etc for doubts
Nothing comes to light in India in Medical Field
***BE VIGILANT! *** WARNING! ***ANTIBIOTICS ARE DANGEROUS! ***
(26-07-2010, Chennai)
Clouds wrestle with sun
Pushing with warning rain storm
Darkness engulfs earth
Feb.2,2008
Beating throbs of desire
Stirring inside
Aching to hold and caress
To plant new seeds of life
Thoughts rushing in at the sight of you
Deepening as we embrace
Oh the hunger
Starving through lent as we abstained
Craving your body close
To melt together as one
Unions of fiery explosions
Hot steamy breath intermingling
Mouths attached together seamlessly
Hands wandering
Exploring without direction
Every valley
Every crevice
No taboos
Tingling sweating skin
Wanting everything
Needing only you
Tracing along your every curve
Lips lightly kissing
Nibbling for effect
Squirming this body beneath
Erotically moving in time
Rhythmically
The urgency of animal lust
Boiling higher
Magma of bodies mixed
Peaking to exhaustion
Breathing deeply, holding one another
Slowly descending passions frenzied path
Resting interlocked
Warm bodies touching, sweat mingling
To sleep
Let 'em come, by gum!  That's all I say.
Let me see one of 'em up this way,
With their sacks a-back an' their walkin' boots
Low neck, short-panted hikin' coots
Flingin' their fags in the brambles here,
Same as that other one done last year.
He might just once; but he won't no more.
I'll nail his hide to the cow-shed door.
A mile o' fencin' and two good hust
All thro' them an' their lighted butts.
Patronisin'?  You're too dead right.
These city fellers is awful bright
Three good huts an' a mile o' fence!
'Tisn't so much me own expense;
Three mile o' forest gone up in smoke!
Well, ain't it enough to nark a bloke?
The worst they done was in ninety-five.
Poor ole Ben Bray, he'd still be alive
It if wasn't for that camp-fire they left.
But a burnt-out-home an' the kids bereft
Of their dad.  Yes; that was the toll that day;
An' the fellers what done it miles away.
Oh, there's fools in the forest as well as town.
I ain't lettin' none o' me neighbors down.
There's fools in the forests, as well I knows;
Chancin' a burn when the north wind blows.
An' they oughter be pinched . . . But them city skites,
Suckin' their fags an' strikin' their lights!
Just let me catch 'em!  Vindictive?  Me?
Ropeable, am I?  Well, wouldn't you be
If you suffered the same from their smokin' butts?
Three mile o' fencin' an' four good huts!
Alcohol Warning
A man, to prove that potatoes
had all the nourishment
needed to survive,
began eating this bulbous plant only.
Many dishes can be made of potatoes,
yet it has limitations
sautéed, baked, boiled and fried
it is still a potato.
To relieve the boredom he made
a drink of fermented potatoes,
I think it is called Mjød,
drank it got drunk, went out and
bought a bar of chocolate.
Send out your would-be heroes,
I've already faced a bunch.
If they come early, they're breakfast.
Late arrivals are lunch.
I'm the biggest, baddest monster
That you'll ever see.
The best tactic when I arrive
Is to drop everything and flee.
A flock of sheep and a herd of swine
Sounds kind of yummy.
Tasty, slow-moving villagers
Bring a smile to my tummy.
Stay on your side of the river,
And everything will be fine.
Dare to enter my magical forest,
And surely you'll be mine.
A Mother's Warning (short story)
One summer’s day my children (5 & 7)  went fishing with me by a fast moving river.
On the banks grew tall grass, and on the rivers edge were dainty blue flowers
As we stood fishing my daughter came up to me holding a small bunch of flowers.
She asked, what kind of flowers are these?
My son also wanted to know.
I recognized that the flowers were Forget-me-not.
She replied, why are they called Forget-me-not.
So, I told them this story;
There was once a brave and noble knight in shining armor, that loved, very much, a beautiful maiden, he had to go away to war to fight to save the maiden, and her family who lived in a castle.
The knight asked her what do you want me to give you before I go to war.
She said, those pretty blue flowers that grow by the river’s edge.
So the knight said, I will get them for you, my love.
The knight walked to the river’s edge to pick the pretty blue flowers.
He slipped into the river while holding the flowers he picked.
His armor filled with water.
He began to sink deeper and deeper in to the water, while he was sinking, he called out Forget me not, and then he drowned.
The last thing the maiden saw of him was his hand held up holding the flowers.
After hearing this story, my daughter replied, it’s so sad.
I said it is, and I told them to look closely at the petals shaped like little blue tears.
While they were looking deep into the flowers, I said, don’t ever get to close to the water because you could fall in and drown, even the strong knight could not escape being killed by the water. Those petals are his tears, for losing his love and life. Remember the brave and noble knight, and never get to close to the river. Then with a fading echoing voice, I said, forget -me- got, forget- me- not....
I told my children this story to scare them away from the river’s edge so they wouldn’t fall into the water, and drown.
It worked! They never stood or played too close to the river’s edge again.
large stones centuries old still stand on hillsides
with carved letters wise wisdom as messages
messages of love warnings carved into surfaces
patiently warning their aged witness surfaces
forgotten among young trees ancient tsunamis
warning stones stand warning across centuries
earthquake tsunamis will strike in swift waves
modern Japan heed our ancient wise warnings
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Death hides behind the sable clouds
that sweep over the crimson skies.
The mortal beings observe in awe
as the gale presents them with their
racking fates.  Death warned them...
...but nobody took him seriously.
Feel free to pray to your plastic Gods
while I present to you all...Death...
in its most ravaging and ruinous form!
Brought to you by Mother Nature...
...underappreciated, overworked, and
smoldering...we took her for granted!
Beware the bebab,
Question the qwab,
Or you’ll end up a curlab
For a habasnab!
Cried Age to Youth: 'Abate your speed!
The distance hither's brief indeed.'
But Youth pressed on without delay
The shout had reached but half the way
Give me some pen and paper
and I will shower you with many a sweet verse,
give me a torrid tale,
and out of my poets purse-
I shall produce words of worth.
Allow me to sit in my little room,
and open my heart to strangers
But never
pluck my feathers of inspiration,
for I would never let you in again
the sea knows how to dream
and dream
it will
still dream about a jellyfish
a flesh
of a jelly fish, and it will sleep and think
about this dream of more flesh
and sting
and fling
its salt like the tentacles of the jellyfish
to the fish
and the sea urchins
and starfish begin their journey to the shores
where desire stops but does not end
i am the sea and i dream about her tentacles
her flesh
and the pain
in my skin
the needles of the urchin
and the hardness of the starfish and the shore
where i lay
to desires that do not end
to loves lost to wishes that it may regain again
sea dreams sea pains sea urchins
the boat on fire and the captain drowning
The Shoddy Times
March 30,2012
A Warning to all with Infants and Toddlers
With the recent report of other workers suffering similar physical effects that this reporter is currently experiencing from the chromium which is leaching out of recently purchased reflective clothing from China.  It is recommended that anyone laundering their personal everyday clothes that have been in contact with such reflective clothing, wash them separately, preferably not in an automatic washing machine.  The personal clothing will contain within its fibers chromium particulate, some of the larger ones which are able to be seen when light strikes the particles at the proper angle so that they reflect the light into the viewer's eyes, much like the eye glitter worn by young ladies today.
When washing these polluted clothes in an automatic washing machine many of the particles which are released into the wash water are spun right back into the clothing when the washer drains, not to mention into any other clothes that are being laundered with it.  Even after the contaminated clothes are removed, the washing machine will still contain a percentage of the chrome particles, many far too small to be seen by the naked eye, so that the next load of laundry will also be polluted by such particles.
This reporter thus recommends that because the tolerance levels of infants and toddlers for chrome are so minute as to be best considered as zero micrograms (so small as not to be seen at all even in the largest of machines filled with water) , that one rinse the machine at least more than once, by placing the loading dial to the next larger setting, letting it agitate for a couple of minutes then drain, to assure all pollutants are removed before laundering any infant and toddler clothing.  And that all infant and toddler clothing always be laundered separately and best kept as far from work clothing loads as possible.
It is know that the element chromium can cause dangerous physical and psychological effects when one is exposed to levels beyond the maximum allowable daily limits, whether digested, inhaled, or absorbed through the skin. And that these over exposures may not be readily apparent or may take days to become apparent after the fact.
< br>
baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby
I commend myself and my love to you,
Aurelius. I ask for modest indulgence,
so, if you’ve ever had a desire in your mind
you’ve pursued chastely and purely,
keep this boy of mine modestly safe,
I don’t speak to the masses – nothing to fear
from those who pass to and fro in the streets
occupied with their business –
truly the fear’s of you and your cock
dangerous to both good and bad boys.
Shake it about as you please, and with as much
force as you please, wherever you choose, outside:
I except him from that, with modesty, I think.
But if tempests of mind, and mad passion
impel you to too much sin, you wretch,
so you fill my boy’s head with deceptions,
then let misery, and evil fate, be yours!
Of him whom, with feet dragged apart, an open door,
radishes and mullets pass through.
Yes, pretty soon now they’ll be at your door.
They’ve orders and a warrant after all.
It doesn’t matter.  You’ll be on the floor,
your wife and children having watched you fall.
Just then you’ll notice fallen scraps and crumbs,
the beauty of your startled wife’s pale feet,
the Celtic Crosses on your daughter’s thumbs,
the food above that you will never eat.
Your thoughts will have become a crimson pond
that flows out of your gagged and bleeding head
until you find yourself afloat, beyond
the reach of billyclubs and flying lead.
Deah Ladies,
Let me wawn you, theah are feahful taimes to come,
And a mos' ter-ific strugge is at hand;
And we have no taime to speah
If we wish to do ouah sheah
To defend, like Joan of Awk, ouah native land.
Foah a really fraightful monstah is preparing to devouah
All that's uppab-clauss and propah and quaite naice;
And if we should be behaind
In the battle aye shall faind
All ouah priveleges vanish in a traice.
O, it makes me shuddah, ladies, when Ai ventuah to reflect
On the ravages this mongstah contemplates.
He will break up all ouah homes,
And where'er the creatuah roams,
We'll be sundered from ouah lawful Tory mates.
We'll be tawn from ouah poah husbands in a most fe-rocious way,
0, deah ladies, can you realise ouah lot?
For the monstah has his eye
On the Sacred Marriage Tie;
And he'll eat up all the babes we haven't got.
And remembah, deahest ladies, all ouah comfort now depends
On destroying this wild Socialistic beast.
Ouah sassiety diversions
Would be vulgah mob excursions
If we pandered to the monstah in the least.
He is bent on confiscating all the houses, land and wealth
Of ouah husbands, and ouah brothahs, and ouah friends.
He is jealous of his bettahs.
And he calls ouah men-folk sweatahs,
He'll do anything to gain his awful ends.
He's vulgah and unchivalrous this feahful Labah thing.
He is teaching all ouah servants to despise us.
He would drag us to his level,
And he'd send to the - ah - devil
All the luxuries with which his toil supplies us.
He harps upon equality when, as of course you know,
And as all the very naicest people know,
It would simply mean disaster
To imagine ev'ry master
Quaite as ignorant as workers or as 'low.'
0, smaite the Socialistic monstah!  Smaite him hard, mai deahs!
0, gathah up youah skirts and join the fray.
Pray, do not shirk the battle, or, with wailing and with teahs,
You'll regret youah negligence on polling day,
We must teach the vulgah working class their raight position here;
We must keep them in their places; we must faight them without fear,
Or there'll be a bittah wail, mai deahs,
If Socialists prevail, mai deahs,
And all 'raight thinking' people and the 'naicest' disappear.
Mother-in-law! With your power,
don’t ill treat your daughter-in-law
when she enters your home as bride.
She will store it to repay later
when you, as old, are at her mercy.
Everone of you is warned
but none of you has learned
26.04.2001, Pmdi
Do not think me gentle
because I speak in praise
of gentleness, or elegant
because I honor the grace
that keeps this world. I am
a man crude as any,
gross of speech, intolerant,
stubborn, angry, full
of fits and furies. That I
may have spoken well
at times, is not natural.
A wonder is what it is.
But listen, I am warning you
I'm living for the very last time.
Not as a swallow, nor a maple,
Not as a reed, nor as a star,
Not as spring water,
Nor as the toll of bells…
Will I return to trouble men
Nor will I vex their dreams again
With my insatiable moans.
Are you not frightened by looking at this picture?
This is not for today but indication for coming future
Have we not deceived our mother earth and brought havoc?
Natural wealth is fast depleting and running out of stock
Tress can show displeasure by looking barren
Ponds can show it by going dry even
But it is very difficult to guess mentality of human being
What a level to lower and disasters to bring?
Nature gives an early warning for any of the consequences
Volcano may make its intent known as it is not by chance
Cyclone sends early warning with prior arrival rain and storms
Human mind acts with connivance and doesn’t even warn
We are facing natural wrath as cycle has completely changed
Sea level is rising fast with alarm and becomes mismanaged
River waters bring untold sufferings and add to the woes
This is how our misery is multiplying and goes
We face the world with two way deception
On one side we make drive for forestation
And on the other side allow for deforestation
Eco balance is thus disturbed and making way for destruction
Green forest land is set on fire
Human greed has expanded to acquire
All forest land for cultivation and use
Leaving behind suicidal notes for us to choose
Time is yet within our hands
We must think fresh change our trend
Nature must be preserved at any cost
Else everything on earth may be lost
No way of trying to find who to be.
No way leaves such a bad old cause
A memory shall now twirl
Even though it happens as every warning
Letting you just push me to my final limit
Like trying to break myself ever free
So that's what it's like for every warning
For it hurts with an aplomb
Just as the chances are gone
Final time of never fair
Even if it's true that you couldn't even care
Letting me have secrets that I'll keep
Not sure when to break free
Just not with a bliss
Guess you'll never finally want to see
Even though it happens as every warning
Letting you just push me to my final limit
Like trying to break myself ever free
So that's what it's like for every warning
So there's no-one who can finally even see
Low as you hurt me but that's further debatable, debatable
And that'll be nothing that's ever new
No way of making love due so
Even though it happens as every warning
Letting you just push me to my final limit
Like trying to break myself ever free
So that's what it's like for every warning
If you want to retain your youth
don’t introduce him to your friends.
This a plain and simple truth
though your refusal may offend.
You cannot trust the best of friends
not to attempt to steal your guy.
Despite the fact that they pretend
that you can trust them completely.
Though you would trust them with your brass
and even with your credit card.
But men are in different class
in which you’ll find nothing is barred.
So if you want to keep your youth
believe my words they are the truth.
23-Jan-09
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
Sunday, December 23,2018
8: 36 PM
First warning
Sunday,23rd December 2018
I wish the world to be different
when the bell of the new year may present
the rising sun in a different color
to lead us with an honor
Let us look back with no surprise
it was filled with the promises
yet something more was to be done
even though it has ceremonially gone
It was really memorable
for all of to struggle
and remember as an individual
nature remained really cruel
Was it of our doing?
nature was really playing
with the most devastating arm
and causing great harm
jungle fire. floods and natural disturbances
it played really against with destructive forces
we all prayed for the welfare of human beings
we are taking it as the first warning
Hasmukh Mehta
They mold a fake silver coin
From toxins they're forced to join
It takes its toll on the skin
And tricks the blind mind to win
Refrain:
Nickel Cobalt and Chrome
That's where the alchemists roam
To forge gold out of lead
A fool must smelt with your head
The metallic sheen that's aglow
Bares a false toxic light bow
If an arc weld catches your gaze
Its brilliance leaves you in a daze
Scripture foretold long ago
Of the metal mind melding show
Behold mine eyes now know
Minds galvanized, synthesized,
Hypnotized and synchronized.
< br>friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
I'd rather be the Jester than the Minstrel of the King;
I'd rather jangle cap and bells than twang the stately harp;
I'd rather make his royal ribs with belly-laughter ring,
Than see him sitting in the suds and sulky as a carp.
I'd rather be the Court buffoon than its most high-browed sage:
So you who read, take head, take heed, -
Ere yet you turn my page.
The regal “ Ego”
Sat in a tuft
Not long ago
To anger rather swift
Its fine and princely sure
Yet an Achilles’ heel
For the second person to ensure;
Twist around fingers I feel!
Yes oft I observe Great men fall
To the trap of flattery
Although otherwise tall
Words as if a bribery!
Regal the manipulator
Knowing the pitfalls ahead
Try to but futile warn of predator
Waiting to make his rose bed!
What more can unconditional love desire
Without uncaring sit by his warm fire
Even if burdens cannot share;
His patient love needless to retire.
Leaders
Kings
Queens
Wealthy
déné utamaning nata
bèr budi bawa leksana
liré bèr budi mangkana
lila legawa ing driya
agung dènya paring dana
anggeganjar saben dina
liré kang bawa leksana
anetepi pangandika
Caring
Giving
Helping
Protecting
Global warming is a warning.........
Mother earth is faltering due to global warming
Today man -made chemicals causing ozone depletion
Thousands of species becoming extinct due clearing of rain forest
Poisonous gases and spillage emitted daily from factories and Mills
Receding of Coral reefs due to global warming threat to marine life
The mess created by our own hands, threatening the very existence of human race
Man has woken up is it too late, and still no answers.
Man's threat to nature has dire consequences by Mother nature
With the earths volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and earth slips Mother nature is angered
With the interference from Man with Mother nature, can the world survive?
Global warming and chemicals has taken its toll on Mother Nature, and scarcity of Water.
Can the world be saved against this wanton destruction by Man?
Humanity should band together and curb violence against mother nature
Allow mother nature to recuperate and heal by growing more trees
Respect God's gift of nature without causing further damages
Educate people to save the world from utter destruction
Advise people to use alternate source of energy to bring change to the environment
Energy efficiency could also be obtained by educating people to create awareness
Fossil fuel from gasses should be done away with due to carbon emissions
Let Mother nature take care of waste products by re-using it to grow.
Let all the people of the world band together to heal mother nature for the future generation
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
All rights are reserved @ 2017 - Ravi Sathasivam
Can we deselect stupidity?
Coral blanches in the warming seas,
The Arctic cap recedes,
And indifference breeds
An expanding waist of greed.
This is no Greek tragedy.
This is not great Sophocles,
Not Oedipus destroying Mother Earth.
That was accidental. This far worse
As the white faced clown
Is chosen from the chorus,
Merely an Apprentice,
Plucked for the task,
By the call of avarice.
Behind the trees the red road
leading to the end of summer
we wandered by the rhododendron
its purple flowers attracting your attention
I watched you swat a fly
something I thought you would never do
and now you turn again
in this perfect afternoon
your swivelled head
wanting me dead for no reason
Madness to take a dog
To the moon its surface is
full of Lunaticks
When I was young, so very young
I would hear the cry of those moms
Who did stay home to raise their kids
While others ran away to play or strapped for the work they did
‘In whose hands are you leaving your children? '
When in my latter teen years, home
Back from work on a week end night
My own classmates, parte' away
Why, when the clock ticked ten the local news, kindly display?
‘Parents, where are your children? '
For I did know just where they were
While mother said, 'I'm glad your home! '
Damn this news thing, she'd seen it too…
For there was too many a time myself, I did go roam.
But out here in the old Midwest
They say that we are far behind…
No way, I say! We toke as hell!
It's just not the way of our parental kind set of mind
For they grew up from the old school
That taught things always would happen
During the night when so shady
You would never ever find goin' in daylight's dampen
Missing children, famly' stories
Of how just the old times did go
And her mother once relayed to her
This deep dark family secret, you know
Yea, right!  Mom those are fairy tales.
As I did tune then in to view
The latest from my high school friends
About a new show that you should see too
You see I have heard those stories
From others so many years ago
I knew not where I heard before
But it was not just from my mom you know
She was not there I realize
The first time I heard the words ‘Live,
From New York' show, but I do now
Remember ‘twas from dad's friend who did strive
About a man did picket cross
I overheard early today
How they seen him later near home
He had four flats, a lesson fast, their way!
That's not right, maybe he had to
His children may have needed bread
And never approved of stealing
Or even charity to get them fed
Knowing the unions, how do they say?
'It's my way or the highway' bro
And they say supervisors do?
Who's right, who's wrong?  It's still that way ya know
But there is one from long ago
That no-one here may remember
About when times were very hard
And so deadly the sad done surrender
I have pieced it all together
For I'm one big History nut
You may think I am crazy but,
Maybe someday while near a campfire's hut
I'll relay a story to my own
Of how my family seed was sown
For it seems He never changes
In the way He loves his children
For now I know one they do not
And the hidden secrets all the hills rend
But being the nut I am, I do
Genealogy of them too
And searching those cemeteries
Here's one they may not care for to pay due
How the cholera was here too
And now I even do know it
For I have watched some spooky ones
Of times far past and they still show it
I'd search courthouses for so long
And have found the stones to prove it
How my famly' too, lost one at two
Age of child's wean, more or less, remove it
Just how it spreads, and they all knew
So did Nostradamus and Poe too
The water dummies! Sinners Creek!
Good man's spring! Cholera, Black Plague,
Bubonic Plague!
If you drink water from one town
That it's sewer has polluted
So far downstream, you know it not
But the waste is yet to be diluted.
Babies and old men, give satan away every time!
Maybe God's hand makes us take a stand, as I have solved that one
Now many will claim that they already did
For there are some who've always known it
They may have even kept it freshly repainted
Sometimes there are little clues we miss every day
But when they are revealed this way
It tends to make us wonder
But don't spend all our time looking for clues
Or as the old timers would say
‘Daydreaming doesn't get the work done'
Or did liberal schools make us that way
Oh well, they say; one must eat, so I better go.
Right there; no work, no pay, but the old timers always knew that one!
< br>
dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark dark history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history history nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
The son of two drops in the ocean
Was possessed of a singular notion
Oceanography was mastered
By this devilish dastard
Who's now 'fit to be tide' (land o goshen)
Lithium tanks are bad
Just like the last one I had
There may be just one clue
It's the spirits in the flue
For in heaven they make so few
You know how they make them too
For they are gun powder you know
They help the spirits grow
The stick em' up is when
You do blow up in end
They finally get to you
Just like I didn't do
For if you think Lithium is great
Go ahead and test your fate
You will hallucinate
When it's the fiery furnace you hate
When around magnetic fields
A strong headache it yields
It swells the users brain
During the memory drain
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Little Ballads Of Timely Warning; III: On Laziness And Its Resultant Ills
There was a man in New York City
(His name was George Adolphus Knight)
So soft of heart he wept with pity
To see our language and its plight.
He mourned to see it sorely goaded
With silent letters left and right;
These from his own name he unloaded
And wrote it Georg Adolfus Nit.
Six other men in that same city
Who longed to see a Spelling Heaven
Formed of themselves a strong committee
And asked Georg Nit to make it seven.
He joined the other six with pleasure,
Proud such important men to know,
Agreeing that their first great measure
Should be to shorten the word though.
But G. Adolfus Nit was lazy;
He dilly-dallied every day;
His life was dreamy, slow and hazy,
And indolent in every way.
On Monday morn at nine precisely
The six reformers (Nit not there)
Prepared to simplify though nicely,
And each was eager for his share.
Smith bit the h off short and ate it;
Griggs from the thoug chewed off the g;
Brown snapped off u to masticate it,
And tho alone was left for three.
Delancy’s teeth broke o off quickly;
From th Billings took his t,
And then the h, albeit prickly,
Was shortly swallowed by McGee.
This done, the six lay back in plenty,
Well fed, they picked their teeth and smiled,
And lazy Nit, about 10:20,
Strolled in, as careless as a child.
'Well, boys,' he said, 'where’s the collation?
I’m hungry, let us eat some though.'
'All gone!' they said, and then Starvation,
(Who is not lazy) laid Nit low.
Nit trembled, gasped, and, as the phrase is,
Cashed in his checks, gave up his breath,
And turned his toes up to the daisies—
His laziness had caused his death!
Warning
Spelling reformers should make haste.
If each reformer wants a taste.
Little Ballads Of Timely Warning; II: On Malicious Cruelty To Harmless Creatures
The cruelty of P. L. Brown—
(He had ten toes as good as mine)
Was known to every one in town,
And, if he never harmed a noun,
He loved to make verbs shriek and whine.
The 'To be' family’s just complaints—
(Brown had ten toes as good as mine)
Made Brown cast off the last restraints:
He smashed the 'Is nots' into 'Ain’ts'
And kicked both mood and tense supine.
Infinitives were Brown’s dislike—
(Brown, as I said, had ten good toes)
And he would pinch and shake and strike
Infinitives, or, with a pike,
Prod them and then laugh at their woes.
At length this Brown more cruel grew—
(Ten toes, all good ones, then had Brown)
And to his woodshed door he drew
A young infinitive and threw
The poor, meek creature roughly down,
And while the poor thing weakly flopped,
Brown (ten good toes he had, the brute!)
Got out his chopping block and dropped
The martyr on it and then propped
His victim firmly with his boot.
He raised his axe! He brandished it!
(Ye gods of grammar, interpose!)
He brought it down full force all fit
The poor infinitive to split—
*
(Brown after that had but six toes!
Warning
Infinitives, by this we see.
Should not he split too recklessly.
Wizard. - Lochiel.
Wizard.
- Lochiel! Lochiel, beware of the day
When the Lowlands shall meet thee in battle array!
For a field of the dead rushes red on my sight,
And the clans of Culloden are scattered in fight:
They rally, they bleed, for their kingdom and crown;
Woe, woe to the riders that trample them down!
Proud Cumberland prances, insulting the slain,
And their hoof-beaten bosoms are trod to the plain.
But hark! through the fast-flashing lightning of war,
What steed to the desert flies frantic and far?
'Tis thine, Oh Glenullin! whose bride shall await,
Like a love-lighted watch-fire, all night at the gate.
A steed comes at morning: no rider is there;
But its bridle is rd with the sign of despair.
Weep, Albin! to death and captivity led!
Oh weep! but thy tears cannot number the dead:
For a merciless sword on Culloden shall wave,
Culloden! that reeks with the blood of the brave.
Lochiel.
- Go, preach to the coward, thou death-telling seer!
Or, if gory Culloden so dreadful appear,
Draw, dotard, around thy old wavering sight!
This mantle, to cover the phantoms of fright.
Wizard.
- Ha! laugh'st thou, Lochiel, my vision to scorn?
Proud bird of the mountain, thy plume shall be torn!
Say, rushed the bold eagle exultingly forth,
From his home, in the dark rolling clouds of the north?
Lo! the death-shot of foemen outspeeding, he rode
Companionless, bearing destruction abroad;
But down let him stoop from his havoc on high!
Ah! home let him speed - for the spoiler is nigh.
Why flames the far summit? Why shoot to the blast
Those embers, like stars from the firmament cast?
'Tis the fire-shower of ruin, all dreadfully driven
From his eyry, that beacons the darkness of heaven.
Oh, crested Lochiel! the peerless in might,
Whose banners arise on the battlement's height,
Heaven's fire is around thee, to blast and to burn;
Return to thy dwelling! all lonely return!
For the blackness of ashes shall mark where it stood,
And a wild mother scream o'er her famishing brood.
Lochiel.
- False wizard, avaunt! I have marshalled my clan:
Their swords are a thousand, their bosoms are one!
They are true to the last of their blood and their breath,
And like reapers descend to the harvest of death.
Then welcome be Cumberland's steed to the shock!
Let him dash his proud foam like a wave on the rock!
But woe to his kindred, and woe to his cause,
When Albin her claymore indignantly draws:
When her bonnetted chieftains to victory crowd,
Clanranald the dauntless, and Moray the proud;
All plaided and plumed in their tartan array -
Wizard.
- Lochiel, Lochiel, beware of the day!
For, dark and despairing, my sight I may seal,
But man cannot cover what God would reveal:
'Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore,
And coming events cast their shadow before.
I tell thee, Culloden's dread echoes shall ring
With the bloodhounds, that bark for thy fugitive king.
Lo! annointed by Heaven with the vials of wrath,
Behold; where he flies on his desolate path!
Now, in darkness and billows, he sweeps from my sight:
Rise! rise! ye wild tempests, and cover his flight!
'Tis finished. Their thunders are hushed on the moors;
Culloden is lost, and my country deplores;
But where is the iron-bound prisoner? Where?
For the red eye of battle is shut in despair.
Say, mounts he the ocean-wave, banished, forlorn,
Like a limb from his country cast bleeding and torn?
Ah, no! for a darker departure is near;
The war-drum is muffled, and black is the bier;
His death-bell is tolling; oh! mercy, dispel
Yon sight, that it freezes my spirit to tell!
Life flutters convulsed in his quivering limbs,
And his blood-streaming nostril in agony swims.
Accursed be the fagots that blaze at his feet,
Where his heart shall be thrown, ere it ceases to beat,
With the smoke of its ashes to poison the gale -
Lochiel.
- Down, soothless insulter! I trust not the tale:
Though my perishing ranks should be strewed in their gore,
Like ocean-weeds heaped on the surf-beaten shore,
Lochiel, untainted by flight or by chains,
While the kindling of life in his bosom remains,
Shall victor exult, or in death be laid low,
With his back to the field, and his feet to the foe!
And leaving in battle no blot on his name,
Look proudly to heaven from the death-bed of fame.
With Lithium Grease
It excites the brain metals
Magnetic Fields cook
< br>
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
Friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship friendship
I wish we understand the voices
of the birds as they give their
views on the dazzling look of the
earth from the sky maybe we know
how privileged   we are to have
dominion over it.
If only we understand the roars of
the Lions as they praise the splendid
look of the forest  we will stop cuting
and plant more trees.
If only we could listen to our hearts as
it praise the seductive,  moves of the
of the fishes we will show our waters
more respect..
it was in those beautiful
cool eyes
the birth of my madness
and an innocence demise
you had no right to bring me
into your cruel little world
i was just a little girl
i was just a little girl
didn't anyone hear me f*cking
scream
at night, shattering their selfish
pleasant dreams?
no use was it crying for my mommy
i don't want to hear you're sorry
i don't want to hear you're sorry
bared naked was my
little soul
you took whatever good in me
and raped it whole
no longer a person but this shell
who'd love to watch you burn in hell
love to watch you burn in hell
nothing to stop you from
what you did to me
seething hate for you
from which I'll never be free
I'll never grow up to be someone's blushing bride
no one would've cared if i died
no one would've cared if i died
nowadays still in dreams
you will creep
louder I heard your laughter
when you made me weep
inside i'm still that little girl
trapped in your f*cked up world
trapped in your f*cked up world
_____
I know what I wrote here
isn't the most pleasant of themes
but this is what haunts me
whenever I hear a child scream....
or when I walk by the TV
when the news is on,
it might be a breaking story, but
believe me I know what's going on
Child abuse, in any form, runs
rampant in every country
yet efforts to avoid this horror, in my
opinion, seems rather paltry
God forbid if such a predator,
no matter what you do,
were to target any one of your kids
or anyone else close to you.
I wish I didn't know this
or even that I ever care
I guess it doesn't matter as much
if you can't say you've ever been there
Not here to win any
popularity contests,
or to win the Nobel Prize,
I only wish you to remember this
when you look into a child's eyes
Because if you forsake a child
by ignoring what you hear
it will be the end of human decency
within that child's tears
I'm bearing my soul, naked,
for all the world to see,
if for even only one child from
this fate, would ever be free.
Nature's warning
Tuesday,24th March 2020
Nature has used lethal weapon
to caution and remind the human beings
to bring in more disasters
Hasmukh Mehta
The night was dark and damp and cold.
The match girl’s matches still unsold.
The passers by ignored her pleas
what she was selling failed to please.
An orphan child without a home.
By circumstances forced to roam
She earns enough to pay her way
but not today, but not today.
Ill clad in rags and frozen through
her tiny hands and feet are blue.
The freezing rain turns into snow
The match girl has nowhere to go.
Without money, she cannot buy
a night in somewhere warm and dry.
She tries in vain to sell her wares
Without success, nobody cares.
The falling snow was getting deep
and still she had no place to sleep.
Although she tried in vain to find
some shelter from the freezing wind.
This was the night the match girl died.
They found her frozen stiff beside
the local convents well barred door.
The little Sisters of the Poor.
Had not been very sisterly.
Ignored the orphans misery
because they did not choose to see.
Now kindly death has set her free.
No longer needs the charity
which they denied so easily
by pious women who profess
to proffer aid to the helpless.
I do not claim to be guilt free
but I  make no pretence to be
a Little sister of the poor
and let a child freeze at my door.
I am quite sure they will
deny any responsibility
and call her death an accident.
They could nothing to prevent.
I should not judge but feel I must
express my feelings of disgust
That this child was allowed to die
for lack of Christian charity.
Although this happened long ago
There’s very little changed I know.
We’re still prepared to pass them by
and care not if they live or die.
We can pretend they don’t exist
an attitude which will persist
As long as we don’t choose to see
They’re our responsibility.
12-Aug-08
Does anyone ever wonder
Why the clocks tend to wander
And with the passing of time
Days even fade to the sublime
Is military synchronization for wake?
I often thought, it be better for naught
If never the French we spake
An English body, while complex and shoddy
Reduces the mg, ug, mcg, keyboard mistake.
They say there is no Santa Claus
the bigger kids. Its just your dad
I don’t believe their lies of course
Although sometimes it makes me sad
I haven’t got a dad you see.
He died a long, long time ago
There’s just my mum my sis and me
That’s why I’m certain that I know.
There has to be a Santa Claus.
On Christmas morning there will be.
Some presents for each of us
in piles beneath the Christmas tree.
I only six but I know this.
That Santa works all through the night
making sure he does not miss.
A chance to bring a child delight.
One day I hope to catch the sight
of Santa Claus all dressed in red.
But mummy makes me go to bed
and she will watch for him instead.
She leaves mince pies and ginger wine.
Then she settles down to wait.
My sister goes to bed at nine.
Mum falls asleep and wakes too late.
He’s been and gone, so have the pies
While mother slept, kind Santa crept
into the house and ate the pies.
He left our presents while we slept.
At least that’s what my mother says.
If I should ask why she cries
On this the happiest of days.
Because I miss him she replies.
I’m not quite sure I understand
the reason for my mummy’s tears
Santa has gone back to Lapland
where has lived for years and years.
I think my older sister knows
A secret that she will not tell
She’s not allowed to suppose.
Because she sometimes cries as well.
But I’m a boy and boys don’t cry
But when they cry it makes me sad
Although I really don’t know why.
I never really knew my Dad.
Tuesday,01 December 2009
http: // blog.myspace.com/poeticpiers
It is preposterous indeed
that medicine  today does not
concern itself with health promotion,
it does, instead, go overboard
with illness interventions,
many of which do make things worse.
Sir William Osler   warned us not
to intervene when man is well,
but that is   what we do today!
Medicine does not believe
in the idea of wellness.
Each person is considered ill
unless proved otherwise
by use of  funds that can be commandeered.
It is a paradigm prostitution.
Routine check up is currently
a major industry, it is presented
as if prediction of the future
could entirely depend on it.
A pinch of this and a pinch of that can improve a recipe,
but a pinched nerve, in my spine, can make a mess of me.
This week I was doing a routine chore.  I bent to lift a plastic bag.
The result, I believe, was a pinched nerve, which made my body sag.
Well, it didn’t sag immediately; at first it was just a mild twinge,
but within a day my back sagged like.......a door with a broken hinge.
Of course once I felt “that twinge”, I “should have” paused to rest.
Instead I took a walk AND did chores......to give myself a test.
My body failed the test, and I was shown to be a FOOL.
I’d thought the walk would be good for me and all would turn out cool.
After all, I’ve had trouble before......and lived again to play.
But I “SHOULD” have ceased activities.......for the remainder of the day.
Now I’m resting midday, in our bed, watching birds at the feeder,
while my wife does HER chores, plus helps ME.......if I need her.
Luckily I’ve had no shooting pain in my leg as I had some years ago.
I plan to be much better in a few more days.......IF I take it SLOW.
I’ve hardly yelled in pain at all today; already there is improvement,
and, luckily, I can manage to get to toilet (by myself)    to have a bowel movement.
(January 2013)
Don't call me just yet
Let me
Take a shower first
So I can polish and perfume
My slightly dry skin.
Don't call me just yet
Let me
Open my bottle
Of fine French wine,
Then sit down to dine
On a dinner fit for a king.
Then, and only then
Will I be ready to
Discuss how I might
Be able to help those
Suffering starving strangers.
Life's,
Amorphous splatter
Of contradictions,
A surprising platter
Of dangerous games
And not very sound
Convictions,
Therefore,
Watch Out!
Think before you act,
Catastrophe may follow
If you are a Mouse
But want to play Cat.
I saw the cloud in the morning sky
So I turned to go back inside,
And I said to my wife, ‘It’s a shepherd’s dawn,
Or the red sky early warning, torn
By the man with the evil eye.’
The silence hung in a leaden pall
As she turned her face away,
And I said: ‘I’m only the man behind,
I’m not to account for all mankind
Or a cloud at the break of day.’
She looked again and she pulled the blind
And the house was dark and still.
‘I’ve looked my last on the works of man
Through whispered tears on a trembling hand,
Or the cloud beyond the hill.’
So she sat herself where she sits today
By the glow of the ash-wood fire,
But she sees and hears and tells me nought
While the devil inside her can’t be bought,
Or ever be made to tire.
So whenever a cloud in the early dawn
Glows red in the morning sky,
I say to my wife: ‘It’s a shepherd’s dawn,
Or the red sky early warning, torn
By the man with the evil eye.’
9 June 1972
are my blessings always mixed
because my wishes are vain?
or are my wishes always vain
because my blessings are mixed?
(by edgardo s. tugade,03.11.08)
The innocent were slaughtered
So many years ago
In the town of Bethlehem
Slew by an evil foe
Satan tried to keep The Christ
From entering this age
He used a king named Herod
Who acted on his rage
Satan has another plan
To prevent God's elect
From being born to this world
And fighting him direct
Now he uses abortion
To rid earth of God's dear
Problem is, he's far too late
They are already here
So if you think that murder
Of the unborn is just
Or vote for politicians
Who plant them in the dust
You do the same as satan
In forwarding his plan
False promises of power
Blood money in your hand
Only in the case of rape
Abortion is allowed
To remove unwanted seed
Forced on one by the proud
'Let's make laws to legalize
Bring silence to the wise
Use strong drugs to hypnotize
Whom God has given eyes'
Repent before it's too late
No longer are you snowed
For now your eyes are opened
Because you have been told
'But ah! My ballot's secret
No one will ever know'
Too bad, so sad, you may burn
God knows your very soul
Now repent and hang on
God is a Merciful God!
murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder murder baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby baby life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie lie truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death  fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear fear america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america america
One can build a molecule as such
To match the structure just as much
As if equaled element compose
Within its varied electron rows
Thus the simplified combined
To have the same effect on mind
As the elemental tract
To which the mind must counteract
Sublime was the warning that liberty spoke,
And grand was the moment when Spaniards awoke
Into life and revenge from the conqueror's chain.
Oh, Liberty! let not this spirit have rest,
Till it move, like a breeze, o'er the waves of the west --
Give the light of your look to each sorrowing spot,
Nor, oh, be the Shamrock of Erin forgot
While you add to your garland the Olive of Spain.
If the fame of our fathers, bequeathed with their rights,
Give to country its charm, and to home its delights;
If deceit be a wound, and suspicion a stain,
Then, ye men of Iberia, our cause is the same!
And oh! may his tomb want a tear and a name,
Who would ask for a nobler, a holier death,
Than to turn his last sigh into victory's breath,
For the Shamrock of Erin and the Olive of Spain!
Ye Blakes and O'Donnels, whose fathers resign'd
The green hills of their youth, among strangers to find
That repose which, at home, they had sigh'd for in vain,
Join, join in our hope that the flame, which you light,
May be felt yet in Erin, as calm and as bright,
And forgive even Albion while blushing she draws,
Like a truant, her sword, in the long-slighted cause
Of the Shamrock of Erin and Olive of Spain!
God prosper the cause! -- oh, it cannot but thrive,
While the pulse of one patriot heart is alive,
Its devotion to feel, and its rights to maintain;
Then, how sainted by sorrow its martyrs will die!
The finger of Glory shall point where they lie;
While, far from the footstep of coward or slave,
The young spirit of Freedom shall shelter their grave,
Beneath Shamrocks of Erin and Olives of Spain!
Texting texting 1,2,3....
Broadcasting live to the next community
Everything said by you and me
Both the secret and public things we say
Violations of all secrecy
Our Constitution is in jeopardy
'All cell phones turned off' you see
Within the circles that use them that way
Maybe a permit be required
Or a court warrant be acquired
For cell phone use even if admired
To prevent the magnetic field decay
Should the cells which use them as security cameras be fired?
Or those who bug you on purpose be hired?
Maybe all should carry a warning sign ‘this guy is wired'
For the good is far offset by the dismay
Our fires burn with a fearless rage!
They burn at the humans in this cursed age
From friends to hunted the dragons soon became
We are now called 'beast' and by no other name
What paranoia could have spawned their hate?
Was it always to be, dragons doomed to fate?
One thing is for certain, it is not our will!
They will soon find dragons are not so easy to kill
Engulfed in our flames shall be the humans' reward
If ever they should attempt to put dragons to the sword
Ni-cad and Lithium batteries
Have positive and negative posts
One collects, the other rejects
Within the electrolyte host
A type of semi-conduction
Takes place when charging each cell
‘til it's charge, puts halt to the barge
Of the electron flow as well
Man's body is like a battery
Where caustics and acids dwell
Unsettle? Toss in more metal
And watch the conduction swell
And when it finally burns out
Its computer turned to a toast
Doctor's shout, that without a doubt
His life was made better than most
There comes a warning like a spy
A shorter breath of Day
A stealing that is not a stealth
And Summers are away
The Doctor whispered to the Nurse
And the Surgeon knew what he said,
And he grew pale at the Doctor's tale
And trembled in his sick bed.
Now fetch me my brethren and fetch them with speed
The Surgeon affrighted said,
The Parson and the Undertaker,
Let them hasten or I shall be dead.
The Parson and the Undertaker
They hastily came complying,
And the Surgeon's Prentices ran up stairs
When they heard that their master was dying.
The Prentices all they entered the room
By one, by two, by three,
With a sly grin came Joseph in,
First of the company.
The Surgeon swore as they enter'd his door,
'Twas fearful his oaths to hear,--
Now send these scoundrels to the Devil,
For God's sake my brethren dear.
He foam'd at the mouth with the rage he felt
And he wrinkled his black eye-brow,
That rascal Joe would be at me I know,
But zounds let him spare me now.
Then out they sent the Prentices,
The fit it left him weak,
He look'd at his brothers with ghastly eyes,
And faintly struggled to speak.
All kinds of carcasses I have cut up,
And the judgment now must be--
But brothers I took care of you,
So pray take care of me!
I have made candles of infants fat
The Sextons have been my slaves,
I have bottled babes unborn, and dried
Hearts and livers from rifled graves.
And my Prentices now will surely come
And carve me bone from bone,
And I who have rifled the dead man's grave
Shall never have rest in my own.
Bury me in lead when I am dead,
My brethren I intreat,
And see the coffin weigh'd I beg
Lest the Plumber should be a cheat.
And let it be solder'd closely down
Strong as strong can be I implore,
And put it in a patent coffin,
That I may rise no more.
If they carry me off in the patent coffin
Their labour will be in vain,
Let the Undertaker see it bought of the maker
Who lives by St. Martin's lane.
And bury me in my brother's church
For that will safer be,
And I implore lock the church door
And pray take care of the key.
And all night long let three stout men
The vestry watch within,
To each man give a gallon of beer
And a keg of Holland's gin;
Powder and ball and blunder-buss
To save me if he can,
And eke five guineas if he shoot
A resurrection man.
And let them watch me for three weeks
My wretched corpse to save,
For then I think that I may stink
Enough to rest in my grave.
The Surgeon laid him down in his bed,
His eyes grew deadly dim,
Short came his breath and the struggle of death
Distorted every limb.
They put him in lead when he was dead
And shrouded up so neat,
And they the leaden coffin weigh
Lest the Plumber should be a cheat.
They had it solder'd closely down
And examined it o'er and o'er,
And they put it in a patent coffin
That he might rise no more.
For to carry him off in a patent coffin
Would they thought be but labour in vain,
So the Undertaker saw it bought of the maker
Who lives by St. Martin's lane.
In his brother's church they buried him
That safer he might be,
They lock'd the door and would not trust
The Sexton with the key.
And three men in the vestry watch
To save him if they can,
And should he come there to shoot they swear
A resurrection man.
And the first night by lanthorn light
Thro' the church-yard as they went,
A guinea of gold the sexton shewed
That Mister Joseph sent.
But conscience was tough, it was not enough
And their honesty never swerved,
And they bade him go with Mister Joe
To the Devil as he deserved.
So all night long by the vestry fire
They quaff'd their gin and ale,
And they did drink as you may think
And told full many a tale.
The second night by lanthorn light
Thro' the church-yard as they went,
He whisper'd anew and shew'd them two
That Mister Joseph sent.
The guineas were bright and attracted their sight
They look'd so heavy and new,
And their fingers itch'd as they were bewitch'd
And they knew not what to do.
But they waver'd not long for conscience was strong
And they thought they might get more,
And they refused the gold, but not
So rudely as before.
So all night long by the vestry fire
They quaff'd their gin and ale,
And they did drink as you may think
And told full many a tale.
The third night as by lanthorn light
Thro' the church-yard they went,
He bade them see and shew'd them three
That Mister Joseph sent.
They look'd askance with eager glance,
The guineas they shone bright,
For the Sexton on the yellow gold
Let fall his lanthorn light.
And he look'd sly with his roguish eye
And gave a well-tim'd wink,
And they could not stand the sound in his hand
For he made the guineas chink.
And conscience late that had such weight,
All in a moment fails,
For well they knew that it was true
A dead man told no tales,
And they gave all their powder and ball
And took the gold so bright,
And they drank their beer and made good cheer,
Till now it was midnight.
Then, tho' the key of the church door
Was left with the Parson his brother,
It opened at the Sexton's touch--
Because he had another.
And in they go with that villain Joe
To fetch the body by night,
And all the church look'd dismally
By his dark lanthorn light.
They laid the pick-axe to the stones
And they moved them soon asunder.
They shovell'd away the hard-prest clay
And came to the coffin under.
They burst the patent coffin first
And they cut thro' the lead,
And they laugh'd aloud when they saw the shroud
Because they had got at the dead.
And they allowed the Sexton the shroud
And they put the coffin back,
And nose and knees they then did squeeze
The Surgeon in a sack.
The watchmen as they past along
Full four yards off could smell,
And a curse bestowed upon the load
So disagreeable.
So they carried the sack a-pick-a-back
And they carv'd him bone from bone,
But what became of the Surgeon's soul
Was never to mortal known.
The time of shoddy
Is now back again
Chinese clothing
Is now folding
Reflections of Chrome
Leaching out of strips
Small flowing rivers
Of mite sized shimmers
Glitter everywhere!
Allergies everywhere!
All BEWARE! ! ! !
SUBMI TTED FEBRUARY 24,2012
truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth
world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world
world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world
world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world
world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world
world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world
world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world world
money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money
money money money money money money money money money money money money money money
money money money money money money money money money money money money money money
money money money money money money money money money money money money money money
money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money money
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature
nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life
The Shoddy Times                    June 18 2012
Parent Company Collapse In The Making
Shoddy For Sale, As Parents Bail
And end to our company
Was made quite clear
As our trusted employers
Collected their gear
They had been selling
All our assets
Collecting their gold
While making us sweat
Now we're the mad ones
They lied to us so
We're now after them
By exposing their goal
They played both sides
They did it well, so
They played us pawns
Both Chiefs and Bro
Making us argue
For compromise
To save civility
Our morals their prize
They brought that home
They laughed at it so
The prize that we valued
While their fortunes did grow
And now there's chaos
Just what will they do
When they see us
Just walk away too
For with all their gold
They've set aside
It's all based on
Production and pride
While our morals stand firm
On our own treasure
They'll be coming back
Thinning bellies the measure
Then they'll decide
The values that count
To preach what they practice
Under our MOUNT!
JUST now,
Out of the strange
Still dusk . . . as strange, as still . . .
A white moth flew . . . Why am I grown
So cold?
Where thoughts are about fear
Where stress becomes routine
The anger, lust, revenge
And vices tries to conquer
Human heart complains and asks
Stop stop and make things easy
WHEN sounds the trumpet at the Judgment Day,
And when forever all things earthly die,
We must a full and true account supply
Of ev'ry useless word we dropp'd in play.
But what effect will all the words convey
Wherein with eager zeal and lovingly,
That I might win thy favour, labour'd I,
If on thine ear alone they die away?
Therefore, sweet love, thy conscience bear in mind,
Remember well how long thou hast delay'd,
So that the world such sufferings may not know.
If I must reckon, and excuses find
For all things useless I to thee have said,
To a full year the Judgment Day will grow
Many to Christ refuse to bow
To Satan’s will yet fall
So few believe God’s warning now?
To heed Salvation’s call
Christ’s not in mode He’s long passé
It’s all outdated rules
Continuing the devil’s way
They walk to hell as fools
Yet those, who at life’s crossroads stand
With no one’s help in sight
Whisper for Jesus’ helping hand
And take the road that’s right
Yet most will say, that’s not my way
Religion’s for the weak
It’s not for me to kneel and pray
Though fortune will I seek
Rejecting now the hand of God
Refusing love’s true grace
Oblivious to Heaven’s Rod
They’ll never see God’s face
Instead they’ll see hell’s lake of flame
They’ll feel eternal pain
Where calling out The Saviour’s name
Will always be in vain
Humility the proud must seek
The blind God’s grace to see
The arrogant become now meek
So Christ can set us free
God’s testing iron and hardened steel
Refining silver and gold
Be warned, be wise, learn now to kneel
Before your flesh grows cold
For love-I would
split open your head and put
a candle in
behind the eyes.
Love is dead in us
if we forget
the virtues of an amulet
and quick surprise.
Where thoughts are about fear
Where stress becomes routine
The anger, lust, revenge
And vices tries to conquer
Human heart complains and asks
Stop stop and make things easy
It depends upon my health
The human heart, its performance
You makes it dangerous to sustain
You makes it feel disturbed
When you opt for foolish struggles
The heart says you are in danger
Hear, the wonderful organ
Highly sensitive to emotions
Keep the emotions less stressful
Where your speed must control
Otherwise heart will call it
To stop the journey itself.
got colds today
warning my body
the i have less immunity,
i will take rest
and drink plenty of fluids
there is a rush
for being again healthy
lots of work to do
lots of deadlines to meet
for the meantime
i need sleep
but this i cannot miss
another poem for me and for you.
Warning! warning! warning!
This is a warning
Stop me from yawning
There is no smoke
Without a choke
There is no secret
Without a regret
You can not be strong
If you've never been wrong
Anything ever hot
Brings upon hurt
This is a warning
Stop me from yawning
Unfailed prevention
Prevails redemption
Avoid temptation
Beware of those who are nice
So say the experienced wise
Everything comes with a price
This is a warning
Stop me from yawning
Run, have fun
While there is still sun!
I'll smash your back
I'll weaken your bones
I'll bury your lovers
To rot in the earth
I'll take your sons
Where they cannot be reached
I'll make your daughter
Rip her knickers down
I'll leave you alone
To collect memories
Then i'll take them too
And i'll be what's left
earthquake warning
plates on the shelf rattle
every now and then
tokyo siesmic warning
rattling my heart
the plates on the shelf
If you had experience staying in wooden apartment in Japan, you would surely understand what I am trying to say. The plates would rattle every now and then because of siesmic activity. There is no doubt that  Japan is one of the world's most earthquake proned countries.
When 'politicos' turn lunatic,
It's time to step up and speak,
For if not,
The danger is too great,
That Disaster may quickly reach,
A point of no return,
The destruction of a country,
And tyranny at its peak.
In the earth—the earth—thou shalt be laid,
A grey stone standing over thee;
Black mould beneath thee spread,
And black mould to cover thee.
'Well—there is rest there,
So fast come thy prophecy;
The time when my sunny hair
Shall with grass roots entwined be.'
But cold—cold is that resting-place,
Shut out from joy and liberty,
And all who loved thy living face
Will shrink from it shudderingly,
'Not so. Here the world is chill,
And sworn friends fall from me:
But there—they will own me still,
And prize my memory.'
Farewell, then, all that love,
All that deep sympathy:
Sleep on: Heaven laughs above,
Earth never misses thee.
Turf-sod and tombstone drear
Part human company;
One heart breaks only—here,
But that heart was worthy thee!
Warning Bells
Reaching for that bottle, your hand on that throttle,
getting ready to ride without a guide,
down that road, that road to hell.
Wake up before it's too late,
before you reach that gate.
Let go of the hate,
think of your mate.
Looking at life through the bottom of a bottle,
hands shaking,
body quaking.
One of these days you won't be waking.
Don't you hear them Warning Bells?
Shatter that bottle on the floor,
turn around, walk out that door,
do it for you. Listen to them Warning Bells.
Only time will tell if you heard,
heard them bells.
Don't find yourself on the floor, anymore,
turn around say no more, walk out that door.
You're off that road that road to hell.
You've heard them Warning, Warning Bells.
So real, so very real
and did i say, real
every poem, well just about every poem is real...
one or two lines, maybe made-up to fit my mind set
it doesn't make the CRIMES I write about so untrue
or the loves lost even less painful
and I may never save one persons life or my own
but my poems are very, so very real
and let other stand-up and write
so other will not disregarded there own eyes...
aka: lyricvixen
A Polar Bear Pleads:
‘The icy-ground of polar caps
Is melting in a rapid way;
I’m perched atop an ice-berg tip;
I may not be alive next day! ’
“Our existence is endangered;
Stop warming up of earth, Mankind! ”
Copyright by Dr John Celes 2-20-2010
High in the heavens I saw the moon this morning,
Albeit the sun shone bright;
Unto my soul it spoke, in voice of warning,
‘Remember Night! ’
A man there was, a gentle soul,
Of mild enquiring mind,
Who came into this neighbourhood
Its wonders for to find [ … ]
They told him who had put the lid
On Lydney; who the ale
Misspelt in Aylburton. And he
Delighted in the tale.
And still, like little Oliver,
He softly asked for more;
And with the utmost courtesy
Was answered as before.
Until one sleepy summer's eve
He came all unaware
Unto a place called Ruardean,
And asked ‘Who killed the bear?'
The man arose and punched him flat;
Another punched his head,
And when the rest had done with him
Our gentle friend was dead.
The moral of this simple tale
Is plain.  Dear friend, beware!
If you should visit Ruardean
Don't mention any bear.
If you should climb to Yorkley Slad
Pause not to question why
They put a pig upon the wall
To see the band go by.
And if your feet so far should stray
As Dymock, lest some hurt
Befall you, make no mention of
The man without a shirt.
Nine lives have cats, and you but one:
Risk not that gift of God!
It's better to be ignorant
Than dead beneath the sod.
On a bright sunny day
With the light wind flowing
A Cutie white cloud of peace
Peeked from the sky to play
With the wind
And that Carried her away
Too far
That landed them in nowheres land
Down is the hill
Top is the bright sun shine falling on
Peak of the hill.
All of a sudden
Darkness gripped her way
And a storm of silence could be heard
She saw that she was surrounded
By black clouds from all sides of rain
Which were ready to pour out angrily on her
It seemed like tiger ready for an attack.
With dagger in hand
To pounce on her to kill.
Meekly stood the cutie cloud
Watching and
Remembered her mothers warning
Not to cross the border line
Which she crossed playfully
All of a sudden
The swirling wind dispersed
Away the black clouds
Surrounding her
And she was given a way
To fly away.
She flew away so fast as she was lighter than air
That leaving all the black clouds at dismay.
She reached reached on her mammas  lap
And cried to her heart full.
Mamma said
Be careful next time
Don't get carried away by the wind!
©ALL RIGHTS RESERVED BY GEETHA JAYAKUMAR 2014
© 2014.
Geetha Jayakumar.
PURE at heart we wander now:
Comrade on the quest divine,
Turn not from the stars your brow
That your eyes may rest on mine.
Pure at heart we wander now:
We have hopes beyond to-day;
And our quest does not allow
Rest or dreams along the way.
We are, in our distant hope,
One with all the great and wise:
Comrade, do not turn or grope
For some lesser light that dies.
We must rise or we must fall:
Love can know no middle way:
If the great life do not call,
Then is sadness and decay.
Before you read my poetry
I want you to understand,
I, m not a high school scholar
I preferred the beach, the sun & sand.
So as you read & find mistakes
Please keep your opinions to yourself,
Cause my dictionary & other books
Lay forgotten on the shelf.
Forget the missing dots & dashes -
The capitals & commas,
For all these words come from the heart
And to me that's all that matters! ! !
When I am an old woman I shall wear purple
With a red hat which doesn't go, and doesn't suit me.
And I shall spend my pension on brandy and summer gloves
And satin sandals, and say we've no money for butter.
I shall sit down on the pavement when I'm tired
And gobble up samples in shops and press alarm bells
And run my stick along the public railings
And make up for the sobriety of my youth.
I shall go out in my slippers in the rain
And pick flowers in other people's gardens
And learn to spit.
You can wear terrible shirts and grow more fat
And eat three pounds of sausages at a go
Or only bread and pickle for a week
And hoard pens and pencils and beermats and things in boxes.
But now we must have clothes that keep us dry
And pay our rent and not swear in the street
And set a good example for the children.
We must have friends to dinner and read the papers.
But maybe I ought to practice a little now?
So people who know me are not too shocked and surprised
When suddenly I am old, and start to wear purple.
WAKEN not Amor from sleep! The beauteous urchin still slumbers;
Go, and complete thou the task, that to the day is assign'd!
Thus doth the prudent mother with care turn time to her profit,
While her babe is asleep, for 'twill awake but too soon.
Negroes,
Sweet and docile,
Meek, humble and kind:
Beware the day
They change their mind!
Wind
In the cotton fields,
Gentle Breeze:
Beware the hour
It uproots trees!
Inside everybody's nose
There lives a shar-toothed snail.
So if youi stick your finger in,
He may bite off your nail.
Stick it farther up inside,
And he may bite your ring off.
Stick it all the way, and he
May bite the whole darn thing off!
Pharmaceutical commercials
Produced for big bucks
By slick marketeers
Who prey on our fears
They hawk pills, lotions
Sundry potions
And other Fix-er-uppers
For dyspepsia after suppers
If your restless legs twitch
Or you have an itch
Their twitchy itchy pills
Will cure all those ills
Warning
But not if you’re pregnant
Or have high or low blood pressure
Rhinitis, arthritis or any other itis
If you can’t sleep at night
Or are stressed and uptight
And for ills-infinitum
So
Before ingesting this pill
To make sure it won’t kill
Confer with your physician
If this pill you decide to ingest
PLEASE
Consult a Psychiatrist
.
.
Warning: A mass migration of flocks
of the common Trashbird and Junkbird variety
has commenced and is now underway.
We recommend extreme caution if you are traveling
Route D2LR
The migration route extends
only from the den to the living room
so travelers should expect to be suffering mightily from
all the Stuffitis and WhateverwasIkeepingthatforitis and Noroomtositdownitis
maladies normal to the mass migration of these birds...
.
.
~~~~~~~~~~©2019 Susan Williams
Virtue is Virtue, writ in ink or blood.
And Duty, Honour, Valour, are the same
Whether they cheer the thundering steps of Fame
Up echoing hills of Alma, or, more blest,
Walk with her in that band where she is least
Thro' smiling plains and cities doing good.
Yet, oh to sing them in their happier day!
Yon glebe is not the hind whose manhood mends
Its rudeness, yet it gains but while he spends,
And mulcts him rude. Even that sinless Lord
Whose feet wan Mary washed, went not His way
Uncoloured by the Galilean field;
And Honour, Duty, Valour, seldom wield
With stainless hand the immedicable sword.
Within the circumference of circumstance
We conjure up thoughts-once and again
In muted tones of caution
Of less IS more;
Wafting through this moment
Are jagged impressions left
Of a once pristine pure second
Where hand in hand we walked
A ribbon of a highway
Together-totally immersed
In effluent passion-simply oozing;
Upon a journey, so sure Golden;
Off our guard-ambushed
By the copper tendrils, laying in wait
Portents of a Paisley Sky
And a victim filled fate;
The Darkness
Holds close
It's secret
Motive's
At the concrete
Curb
Much too near
The drive way
Of one of
God's many abode's
By, Theodora  Onken
January 16,2016
Caution yield right of way
Warning Danger
the signs were all blinded
by the sun in the sky
After you finally knew you
had won my heart was it
then that made you decide
your challange was over?
Living by all the rules, obliging
any and all rules of love never
seeing the Danger signs listed
my gurad rail of love collapsed
into your soul
Many years of loving is a lifetime
of devotion a sancation to harbor
a broken heart
Even with life taking its yield, and
its caution, and Danger, still could
not prevent nor guarentee a gift
of love, I know that now.............
I was charged with being
in illegal possession
of sexciting thoughts
about you and your body.
Get off with a stiff...warning.
We're killing the World
And Ourselves!
So much greed,
So much lying,
And amongst, all the trouble frying,
We can see the Hate,
Promoted by the devils
That anticipate,
The fall of Democracy.
The devils that speak for 'the common good'
In a  thunder bolt of 'Hypocrisy'
When all they care about is Power for themselves,
And perpetuating, blurred futures by no one understood.
Pray and pray hard that there
May be some Robin Hood, amongst this madness
That will save the World from Hell
And all it's bitter sadness,
That there never come the day
When you can say
Once we had Democracy, but not today!
Warning the young of old; i did not but, i came
and went out of more or less circumspect.
The convention center of the Curtis Hixon,
gave the woman i picked, hundreds of roses,
even the teachers, knew the good in the bad.
I knew if i ever got that old, the daisies would pick
me up not i them and the young would think of me not.
I being never young will never be so old again as i
never once was to drink in the spirit again of youth.
Only the heaven's know how many comets held the tail
and the moon always weeping now stays as she is then.
Children, if you dare to think
Of the greatness, rareness, muchness
Fewness of this precious only
Endless world in which you say
You live, you think of things like this:
Blocks of slate enclosing dappled
Red and green, enclosing tawny
Yellow nets, enclosing white
And black acres of dominoes,
Where a neat brown paper parcel
Tempts you to untie the string.
In the parcel a small island,
On the island a large tree,
On the tree a husky fruit.
Strip the husk and pare the rind off:
In the kernel you will see
Blocks of slate enclosed by dappled
Red and green, enclosed by tawny
Yellow nets, enclosed by white
And black acres of dominoes,
Where the same brown paper parcel -
Children, leave the string alone!
For who dares undo the parcel
Finds himself at once inside it,
On the island, in the fruit,
Blocks of slate about his head,
Finds himself enclosed by dappled
Green and red, enclosed by yellow
Tawny nets, enclosed by black
And white acres of dominoes,
With the same brown paper parcel
Still untied upon his knee.
And, if he then should dare to think
Of the fewness, muchness, rareness,
Greatness of this endless only
Precious world in which he says
he lives - he then unties the string.
Ere the horne'd owl hoot
Once and twice and thrice there shall
Go among the blind brown worms
News of thy great burial;
When the pomp is passed away,
''Here's a King,' the worms shall say.'
The smell of rain
hangs heavy in the air;
the sky steadily darkens.
Alert warnings focus
all eyes at the skies.
Faster and faster they move in,
clouds, dark, ominous,
voracious;
gobbling up the horizon
in foreboding, swirling masses.
A beastly spectre grows,
formed and escorted
by sudden unimaginable winds,
great claps of thunder and lightning,
and pelting torrents of rain and hail.
A mighty Dragon! cracks its tail at us
and then......
passes on by
leaving us grateful in the end;
relieved to have missed its hellish breath.
Watch the warning signs
That your body is sending you
Or otherwise you will be in trouble
without warning
sometimes
after striding
the patterns
change
and stripes
one day
become
swirls
the next
and the
striding stops
Without warning
as a whirlwind
swoops on an oak
Love shakes my heart
STRUCTURE & FORM IN POETRY.  Classical Poetry always has Structure even though it does not always rhyme. The Structure gives it metere and flow which facilitates reading and recitation. In my book - recitability is an essential character of a good Poem! . A lesser know Poetical Structure is RHYME ROYAL which inposes a strict metre (usually imabic pentameter)   and a strict rhyming pattern a b a b b c c. Each verse must consist of seven lines. The number of verses is optional!  As an Environmental Scientist I am concerned with the Conservation of Water which is the subject of this Rhyme Royal
Whence comes this water that we need for life?
Where does it go when we flush it away?
A shortage in some countries causes strife
Will it run out like coal and oil one day?
For all resources there's a price to pay.
We all use water - like it was for free
Just turn the tap - it's there for you and me.
God touched the clouds and made the rain - from the rain
Formed the sea and from the sea formed the clouds
To rise and cool and give us rain again.
The rain provides the water for the crowds.
When it evaporates it goes back to the clouds.
Each dropp of water makes our lives secure
But every day we're using more and more.
The Planet Earth has water everywhere
Liquid or a solid or a vapour
In oceans - rivers - lakes and in the air
Icecaps or on frozen lakes like paper.
We scrape it off our windscreens with a scraper!
Mountain stream - boiling steam and freezing snow
A lolly ice?   Thanks very nice - It is all  H 2 O.
The Water Cycle keeps the water going
Round and round - none's lost to outer space
Precipitation - raining - hailing - snowing
Moves the water round from place to place.
Especially when a snowball hits your face.
Streams and rushing rivers keep it all in motion
Then water falls down waterfalls and ends up in the ocean!
Water Water everywhere - for our daily needs
Turn the tap and use the river and the well
Don't pollute - don't dam the spring that feeds
Without 'clean water' life on Earth is Hell!
Clean Water has no taste - no clour and no smell.
Water Water everywhere - please please stop and think
Water Water everywhere - but not one dropp to drink! ! ! ! !
(John Knight - Frozen Colchester - December 2009)
In a great deal of discomfort and pain.
having to stand after boarding the train.
I tried to be as pleasant looking as could be.
Didn’t want anyone to realize,
there was something wrong with me.
Ointments, salve, herb remedies and more.
Nothing seemed to work, from the health store.
I just couldn’t take it any longer,
had to find something stronger.
Mixed a few items and made a potion.
Wished I had just gone down to the ocean.
An appointment was made with a Chinese Doctor,
a referral from a very good friend.
His facial expression showed concern,
He closed his eyes and raised his head.
To my surprise, he smiled and said,
This area is angry and burning red.
What I have to say to you is simple
and proved to be true.
Bathe the area with running water,
Come back and see me in seven days.
With this treatment, you will be amazed.
I did just as the Doctor ordered, of course.
His prescription was made very clear.
I continued to bathe the area with water.
No pills, no powders, no cream or oils.
Amazingly, the pain and stinging was gone.
No sign the angry problem ever existed.
This Doctor taught me a great lesson.
Look at what nature has in store,
Find yourself God’s natural cure.
Life is difficult for so many people
Now and back through the ages
Sometimes existence seems like a test
Hardship at many different stages
Through the Great Depression
Very few jobs were to be had
Some folks actually starved to death
Stories surface that are so very sad
Though most people try to do their best
Sometimes it just doesn’t seem enough
Circumstances create situations
That makes life extremely tough
When there’s no food, there’s usually water
A life-giving part of the land
A necessity that God has given us
Helping the weak strong enough to stand
He gives us the beautiful flowers
A drink of water to keep them alive
Sometimes they get just enough
That they are barely able to survive
And that’s just the way life is at times
It may not be what we would wish for
But if God gives us a drink of water
It sustains us for what’s yet in store!
The world is mostly water, but                                         Do each of us get a drop of water                                       In a glass of water anytime and anywhere?                               We're thirsty because we can not get                                     Just a drop of water in a glass of water!                               Some people have a lot of pure water in                                    Pretty tanks and in pretty bottles of water and                           There are some people who die because they're thirsty                             And they can not get even a drop of water!                                       It's a shame upon the whole world because some                            They get the best water and some die because of                               Lack of water anytime, anywhere, and everywhere!                               Where is the water we want? Where is the H2O?                                Life is useless with water! The pretty lands will                            Die, the animals will die, and we will die without water!                 A drop plus another drop equal two pretty drops and so on, but            Where are the other pretty drops that heaven drop to us!                       Life is going to die if we don't take care of our water on the           Surface of our pretty earth and everything around us!                   We will die if we don't keep our water well because of a lot of            Troubles arising from our mistakes and global warming!
1     Flow gently, sweet Afton, among thy green braes,
2     Flow gently, I'll sing thee a song in thy praise;
3     My Mary's asleep by thy murmuring stream,
4     Flow gently, sweet Afton, disturb not her dream.
5     Thou stock-dove, whose echo resounds thro' the glen,
6     Ye wild whistling blackbirds in yon thorny den,
7     Thou green-crested lapwing, thy screaming forbear,
8     I charge you disturb not my slumbering fair.
9     How lofty, sweet Afton, thy neighbouring hills,
10   Far mark'd with the courses of clear winding rills;
11   There daily I wander as noon rises high,
12   My flocks and my Mary's sweet cot in my eye.
13   How pleasant thy banks and green valleys below,
14   Where wild in the woodlands the primroses blow;
15   There oft, as mild Ev'ning sweeps over the lea,
16   The sweet-scented birk shades my Mary and me.
17   Thy crystal stream, Afton, how lovely it glides,
18   And winds by the cot where my Mary resides,
19   How wanton thy waters her snowy feet lave,
20   As gathering sweet flowrets she stems thy clear wave.
21   Flow gently, sweet Afton, among thy green braes,
22   Flow gently, sweet river, the theme of my lays;
23   My Mary's asleep by thy murmuring stream,
24   Flow gently, sweet Afton, disturb not her dream
The Milky Way was curled and curdled in the sky tonight
when on the shore I heard the waves crash down;
a thousand cats leaped miowling at the moon,
wolves howled at the wind
and in the forest a nightingale sang till dawn.
Mañana tocaran los guitaros
de mi corazón
y cantaran los vientos
and strangest drums will thrum
while Miriam will undulate and set her cymbals
trembling with prophesies, crying
Wa habibi, what has befallen you?
Oh where shall I find you?
I found you coming towards me….
Mi amor, my best beloved
come intertwine, unite and fling
your robes upon the sea shore
where waves will bear them to far islands,
your jewels will shoot like meteors into the oceans
and flying fish will leap out shooting to the heavens…
may all our passion reign in glorious confusion
while in the forest
a nightingale will sing one song till dawn.
LRH
6.7.06
Like The Goddess of the Sea
Like A Mermaid In Heaven
Shrouded in the icy blue sea, accompanied by the sun phoenix's rays lingering and dancing in the water,
She hides in the water where the sun glared into the sea,
She is beloved by sailors and pirates,
They all want to feel her ocean heart of love in the forbidden sea,
But sometimes she can be devious,
Sometimes you can see her in the mist where hazy smokey clouds block the sun,
Her head popping out of the her and you can see her glowing heaven devious eyes piercing through the gray mist staring into your firelight soul,
Sailors would give anything to be with her,
they would lure into her trap and she will twist their warm sun raving hearts into cold and fozen ice,
Even though they heard about this beautiful creature,
they would still go after her and hunt for her pearl ocean heart,
Their's something about her that make every guy crazy
she mesmerize their minds and hearts, making them into
bloodless zombies swimming blind into the sea but guided by the pulses of her aura,
You can hear laughter echoing in the fog and Adventurers would swim in the middle of the ocean for her, but before they reached her, something lurking in the shadows of the ocean reached them first and drag them under the sea, filling their lungs of hollow water because they tried to reach to a angel in the water
As I stood upon the brink of life
And looked into the murky depths
I knew my soul would soon be lost
If I took just one more faltering step
And I longed so strongly for it
Nothing seemed to matter much
‘till I heard a swelling chorus
In the wind and I was touched
There’s a sound across the water
Calling me…..calling me
There’s a sound across the water
Calling me…..calling me
So I listened to the music
On that far and distant shore
And it lifted me and set me free
To finally see what I’d come for
And that sound across the water
Set me free…..set me free
And that sound across the water
Set  me free…..set me free
And I took that step into the dark
Knowing I would not fall
And I floated oh so gently
Towards that far off beckoning call
March 1988
See him hover, over river and pond
just like a fairy waving a wand. He looks
quite stunning this graceful thing, flying
around on brightly coloured wing.
He can sometimes flys up to fifty miles an
hour. Then lands like kamikaze on a lilly pad
flower. He has a huge great appetite when he
starts to feed, feeding of the larvae within the
marsh reed. 'The Devils Darning Needle' he
has sometimes been called, but in the eyes of
a nature lover he is  'A Water Lord'
He is great to watch, with his serenity and charm
when the ponds are still and the rivers calm.
Rich in colour with a lace like wing, he is the Dragonfly
'The Proud Emperor King'
'Be like water, my friend, be like water,
Don’t be rigid; just go with a flow...'
'Be like water' - you asked me. 'Don't hold to me.
I am leaving, so please let me go.'
'Water is shapeless, my friend, water is flowing
Water is moving; and it cannot die...
It may freeze sometimes, when it gets too cold,
But you know, the spring will arrive.'
***
I’m becoming shapeless, I’m becoming fluid,
I am listening to what you say...
I got frozen, my friend, by your sudden coldness
But I’m finding through cracks my new way.
***
Now I am floating, again. I am glowing.
I’m reflecting the sun and the sky...
And sometimes the clouds. And the wind is blowing...
I’m already far away...Just stopped to wave 'Good Bye! '
October 6,2005
Cool earthenware pot
holding water as if it were
love that slopped & lapped
over its top
full to the brim
wearing with pride
the touch of your fingerprints
still visible
from its making
one lost windy night
the fierceness  of its blue glaze
and now it contains
summer
and this blessed coolness
of water
on this the hottest
day
green grass
becoming yellow
under the heat's gaze
and the angry voices
drifting out of an open
upstairs window
becoming lost amongst
thorns and their roses
bleeding into noon
our anger knocking over
all the things we made
seeing our earthenware pot
cool to the touch
& full to the lip with love
like water
fall through the air
becoming only shattered shards
an emptiness
that cannot be
contained no longer
for one moment in its falling
the water held
containerless
between Heaven & earth
before dashing itself
upon the floor
broken fragments
of water
(a voice screaming: 'It's
over...it's over! ')
broken fragments
of water
scattered here and there
splashes of lost love
love lost
lost love.
Alembics turn to stranger things
Strange things, but never while we live
Shall magic turn this bronze that sings
To singing water in a sieve.
The trumpets of Cæsar's guard
Salute his rigorous bastions
With ordered bruit; the bronze is hard
Though there is silver in the bronze.
Our mutable tongue is like the sea,
Curled wave and shattering thunder-fit;
Dangle in strings of sand shall he
Who smoothes the ripples out of it.
Far to the Northward there lies a land,
A wonderful land that the winds blow over,
And none may fathom or understand
The charm it holds for the restless rover;
A great grey chaos -- a land half made,
Where endless space is and no life stirreth;
There the soul of a man will recoil afraid
From the sphinx-like visage that Nature weareth.
But old Dame Nature, though scornful, craves
Her dole of death and her share of slaughter;
Many indeed are the nameless graves
Where her victims sleep by the Grey Gulf-water.
Slowly and slowly those grey streams glide,
Drifting along with a languid motion,
Lapping the reed-beds on either side,
Wending their way to the North Ocean.
Grey are the plains where the emus pass
Silent and slow, with their dead demeanour;
Over the dead man's graves the grass
Maybe is waving a trifle greener.
Down in the world where men toil and spin
Dame Nature smiles as man's hand has taught her;
Only the dead men her smiles can win
In the great lone land by the Grey Gulf-water.
For the strength of man is an insect's strength
In the face of that mighty plain and river,
And the life of a man is a moment's length
To the life of the stream that will run for ever.
And so it comes that they take no part
In small world worries; each hardy rover
Rides like a paladin, light of heart,
With the plains around and the blue sky over.
And up in the heavens the brown lark sings
The songs the strange wild land has taught her;
Full of thanksgiving her sweet song rings --
And I wish I were back by the Grey Gulf-water.
You would be meandering by
Wasting your while
This world is not worth living under the sky
If you havnt tasted your soul water
Other delights will turn bitter
Open your inner eye
Feel the inner wind blowing
Inhale the fragrance
Listen to the sound of the water flowing
Become your own lover
Open the folds bit by bit
Use your innocence to see
Not your wordliness
That will make it flee
The soul water is pure
Crystal clear
Drink it
Drown in it
Anoint yourself with it
Diving,
into clear water.
The light
hurts my eyes,
the warmth
protects me
from myself.
I see your hand
in the water.
An open hand,
waiting for me
to grab it,
to grab life,
to grab fear,
to embrace you.
The shore
can no longer be seen.
I float
weightless,
fearless,
into your arms.
Down in the water
by the edge of the river
where time stands still,
.....if only  forever.
Down in the water
by the edge of the river
where I buried all
that was ever childhood
Where I let it go,
where it bends and meanders,
twisting along as the years went past.
Seemingly calm, but beneath the surface
its hidden whirlpools, a sweeping current!
Down in the water,
I left the edge of the river,
as I looked down
for my soul at the bottom.
Deep in the water!
swept away by the  river! ,
I drowned in life,
......sinking forever.
The night smoothes out its black tarp,
tacks it to the sky with stars.
Lake waves slap the bank, define
a shoreline as one man casts
his seine into the unseen,
lifts the net's pale bloom, lets spill
of threadfin fill the live well.
Soon that squared pool of water
flickers as if a mirror,
surfaces memory of when
this deep water was a sky.
Thou water turn'st to wine, fair friend of life,
Thy foe, to cross the sweet arts of thy reign,
Distills from thence the tears of wrath and strife,
And so turns wine to water back again.
If memory serves:
there was a dark pool in my dreams
that you were bathing in-
and the moon, or rather, its other self
stretched itself from the sky
into the deep recesses of your iris.
and I, half asleep on the shore
laid there completely still,
watching you wade back and forth
until your arms tired from paddling
and you rolled yourself over to float
upon the weightlessness of the water.
All my dreams are this way, meaning something
my exhausted mind can only explain as
incoherent noise; waves that break
far beneath the surface.
Water is blah
My doctor says aha
You drink the stufff
And this is good.
Ducks bobbing on the water--
are they also, tonight,
hoping to get lucky?
Translated by Robert Hass
Red Muscadel – I know it will give a
headache tomorrow, but since my
left ear is sore, I don’t care anymore,
the taste is beautiful, sweet and
wonderful, how could I sleep
without alcohol?
All day long I tried to fix the ear,
but all in vain – at least I’ve changed
the situation; from somewhat bad to
completely intolerable – there goes my
plan to work tonight, with this pressure
and pain, my only gain Is a
perfectly watertight excuse
to refrain from working
tonight…
After determining that my excuse for not working
was infallible, I felt free of responsibility – and
therefore happily did the translation without any
pressure; with this painful left ear I could not go
to sleep and books seem quite boring right now –
the best are the Apocrypha, telling the story of
Jesus’ boyhood – he was a real cowboy; his clay
animals came alive and devoured the others..
The crocodile has been dethroned, no more reading
at top speed, I shall concentrate on translation -
no more gulping down knowledge, grasping only
half, this year I’ll slowly cover every subject;
translate at a snail’s pace to make sure I get
everything right – if worse came to the worst, I
could always die – so first let us try to harness
all powers on behalf -
…of Survival…
Me, very fishy, unable to understand water
Move about in search of an answer
They say water, water everywhere
But what is water they don’t say
Where is water, I don’t see, don’t feel
I move all right, so what?
Water, water everywhere
I don’t drink a drop
Let me ask the giant fish
The grand sire, who knows better
And he tells without water
You can live not a moment …
Leave more for others to follow...
than footprints in the water.
I am water
Sometimes solid...you can always depend on
Sometimes liquid...fits in anywhere
Sometimes vapor...ephemeral...I am there and then I am gone
Sometimes ice...but can be dissolved by fire
Sometimes swirling....with passion
Sometimes tranquil....with still desire
Always flowing....unaware of the destination
Sometimes vivid....like blue sapphire
Always pure....see your reflection
Always rising...wanting to go higher
The well was dry beside the door,
And so we went with pail and can
Across the fields behind the house
To seek the brook if still it ran;
Not loth to have excuse to go,
Because the autumn eve was fair
(Though chill), because the fields were ours,
And by the brook our woods were there.
We ran as if to meet the moon
That slowly dawned behind the trees,
The barren boughs without the leaves,
Without the birds, without the breeze.
But once within the wood, we paused
Like gnomes that hid us from the moon,
Ready to run to hiding new
With laughter when she found us soon.
Each laid on other a staying hand
To listen ere we dared to look,
And in the hush we joined to make
We heard, we knew we heard the brook.
A note as from a single place,
A slender tinkling fall that made
Now drops that floated on the pool
Like pearls, and now a silver blade.
Gray light sparkles off the water,
It lands in my eye as I look across the Lake.
The gray lake light turns upsidedown
As I look up into the Night's sky.
As I did so the upsidedown gray lake light raised above my head and became the Moon,
Shinning in all her glory.
Shinning reflections glanced off my eye
As I searched for stars in the Night's sky.
Finding little stars, with little planets, with little moons, and other night skys.
As I pondered how many moons, earths, and suns there are,
I moved forward, not walking,
But floating
Floating in the water of the Night's sky,
My eyes dared forcing me to ask, 'Where am I? '
In the Lake? no.-
In the Ocean? no.-
I open my eyes to see the Truth.
And looking right AT me...
The Moon,
The Stars,
The Suns,
The Night's sky of every World.
It was so much
Too much.
I wanted to look away, it was so much.
But I couldn't.  I kept looking, staring,
At the Moon, shinning brightly.
Breathing heavily, I zapped myself back to reality.
I opened my eye
And what did I find?
The moon in all her glory.
mist
gathering water
my eyelashes
inspired by:
Mist
Low-anchored cloud,
Newfoundland air,
Fountain head and source of rivers,
Dew-cloth, dream drapery,
And napkin spread by fays;
Drifting meadow of the air,
Where bloom the dasied banks and violets,
And in whose fenny labyrinth
The bittern booms and heron wades;
Spirit of the lake and seas and rivers,
Bear only purfumes and the scent
Of healing herbs to just men's fields!
Henry David Thoreau
Reflecting water
Entwine memory pictures
In autumnal woods
Sometimes we get in hot water
over things we say inadvertently.
You’ll say something with a double meaning
and you can bet your bottom dollar
someone will take it the wrong way.
Your name will be mud
and you’ll be in hot water again
over things you say.
They either throw mud in your face
or laugh until their socks fall off.
31 January 2008
Here on the surface of the sun
Its hard to remember what you were concerned over
Ten thousand degrees or more
Inside hosts of hot-house cooks abound
To stay cool you have to move about
Stroll around some, maybe
Over by the magnetic flux zone
Note to self:  Pickup some nice shades at the drugstore
Just dont taste good.
Whats wrong-number one water.
So the rice grower, ' said'.
You maybe want more.
Feel like a shut door.
Water just dont feel right.
Acid-rain- blurring my sight.
Number one water-BOY.
Please dont tell me more.
YOU MUST HAVE WATER.
YOU number -1,1,1,1, -wont live.
Water shock to the body.
Water just dont feel right.
Must have some water, water.
WHAT YOU MEAN-YOU WANT -WATER.
Out on the block -GIRL.
BABY NEEDS WATER.
YOE, YOE, YOE-you got-WATER
MAN-KEEP YOUR COOL.
YOE-COOL water MAN.
COOL WATER
WATER.
WAT.
W.
[[[[the end]]]
[GOOGLE: search, POEWHIT]
After the people went away,
Jesus chose another way,
With his disciples to cross
The lake and go across.
He climbed up a hill to stay,
And alone went there to pray.
By evening, for him to go back,
No boat was ready in the lake.
The waves tossed the boat.
The wind blew against it.
Early in the next morning,
On water, Jesus was walking
The disciples were afraid.
“It’s a ghost, ” they said.
“It’s I, Don’t be afraid, ”
Like this, Jesus replied.
Peter then spoke, “Lord,
Let me walk to your side,
On the water, if it’s you,
And what I see is true.”
“Come, ” this one word
Jesus blessed and said.
It was a surprise to Peter,
When he walked on water.
But the force of the wind,
Caused a fear in his mind,
That upset his balance
And he faced a crisis.
“Save me Lord, ” he cried.
To float on water he tried.
At once, Jesus pulled Peter
And saved him from water.
“Why did you doubt me?
Have you no faith on me? ”
Jesus smiled and said
His mistake, Peter realized.
The wind also died down
When they both stepped in
A boat that carried them
Without any more problem.
“Truly you’re Son of God, ”
Thus the disciples praised,
Thereafter they all realized,
Jesus was sent by the Lord.
‘To understand all
is to forgive all ‘ –
that’s one French saying
that doesn’t seem to have
crossed the few miles of
‘The English Channel’, or
the Straits of Dover or
‘The Sleeve’ or the
‘Passage of Calais’ or
however the French translates –
with the Normans; so
perhaps they left it behind
at the Conquest along with
Armagnac and crepes and
their blonde mistresses
and never went back for it
like I wonder if that blunt
English saying,
‘Those who can, do;
those who can’t, teach; and
those who can’t teach,
become critics…’
ever made it across La Manche
to that civilised nation where
critics, teachers, and the mind
are held in such respect; but
suppose we equate football
and poetry here:
football supporters know their
playing days are over, if
they ever happened anyway;
they aren’t equipped to teach
except their sons, for some
happy time; and so they
hold to their precious love of
the beautiful game
by criticising the team,
the manager, and especially
the ref. Shoot the ref. So
maybe it’s because
you, and you know who you are,
felt you couldn’t be
the great poet which you so wanted
to be, and found you
couldn’t teach, that
because you truly, deeply
love poetry and all
it stands for, and need
to preserve that love, you
criticise poetry so savagely here
in England, and
are hated for it;
strange isn’t it that
a few miles across the Channel
from aggressive England
you’d be feted, revered, honoured,
as staunch upholder in critical essays
of the ever-renewing greatness of
French literature…
I’ll settle for understanding all and
forgiving all
October is pregnant with November owls, smells of holidays
Wreathing round tables, windows.
No stairs.
First stories are ten feet high, with water marks, loose tin,
Loose memories of
No stairs.
Last year's October, barren. Tears miscarried, dreams in
Beer bottles; toys, clothes, food begged by
Fire stations. No ice.
No stairs.
Christmas of words, Thanksgiving of doctors.
Halloween strutted real...mad dancing, skulls worn
And uncovered. No treats.
No stairs.
Were you proof-reading the Ten commandments,
Knowing water never goes to Heaven?
On that sunset lake were shadows of someone
Stumbling.
Too many stairs.
You were always right, but not always on time.
You took from Heaven.
You would not give.
Too many stairs
Got in the way.
For all men who hunger and thirst, let Jesus, in your life be first,
He will from a fountain higher, come fill our heart’s every desire.
The Lord will cause living water, to flow from within you forever,
When you truly come to know, Jesus Christ, eternal waters flow.
Through the Holy Spirit my friend, His living water will never end.
In everyone who Christ redeems, from inside flow living streams,
When you thirst for righteousness, Christ will fill your emptiness.
Not with a trickle or just a drop, but with streams that won’t stop.
All who thirst, Christ has willed, from His fountain shall be filled.
Filled through The Spirit above, sent to men through God’s love.
The well which feeds the spring, is regulated by the Eternal King,
And the well will never run dry, for its source is The Lord on High.
Rivers of water shall fill the life, of all who come to Jesus Christ.
They’ll hunger and thirst no more, when they know Christ as Lord.
God fills all our remaining days, with ever flowing joy and praise.
Being His example to all around, as the Love of Christ abounds,
A love from Christ that has its start, in every truly believing heart.
It comes only as you believe, and the Spirit of Truth you receive,
This living water He gives you, Christ wants to give to others too,
Using the living water of your life, to draw others to Jesus Christ.
Suspended above
Time
on a little rickety bridge
that almost
touches the water
we watch
time & time again
as water
caught & curved
by rocks
& boulders
forms a woman
& then un-forms
her
here
breasts appear
and then float away
there
the curve of a hip
and faster now
there
her
Sex
urgent & demanding
shaping
& un-shaping
itself.
“Reminds me of me! ”
You say.
“Yeah...”
I say
“...all the way! ”
We return to the hotel
where we recreate
Mother Nature.
Me all hard rock
& boulder
you a woman
made of water.
How, in such moment of time,
Doth thou come unto me,
Delivering such colours radiance,
Liken unto the falls of Niagara,
Filling voids of empathic rooms.
How, in such moment of space,
Doth thou reach the scope,
Of the depth of my pardon,
Liken unto birds paradise,
Giving voice unto melting need.
How, in such movement of spirit,
Doth thy empathic touch,
Deliver me unto heighten joy,
Felt only at the pinpoint second,
Emotions quake has release.
Only Thou could bring such eclipse.....
Only thou could make water flow.......
GJW- 26/12/06
My water ski, she is a beauty
Now she’s painted bright red and black
I can think of nothing much better
Than to go out and give her a crack.
I’m sure she’ll skim over the water
As some sea birds skim over the sea
And I hope that while she’s a’skimming
She’ll think kindly of waiting for me.
As her creator I’m sure I deserve it
For the hours of toil that I’ve spent
In planing, and sanding and painting
And getting the bloomin end bent!
The evening is festooned with golden clouds
the fairies dance in the meadow
and the leaf-crowned Nacken
plays his fiddle in the silvery brook.
Little boy in the brush on the bank
resting in the violet vapor
hears the noise from the chilly water
calls out in the still night.
"Poor old fellow, why do you play?
will it take the pain away?
you bring the woods and the fields to life
but you'll never be a child of God.
Paradise's moonlit nights
eden's flower-crowned plains
angels of the light on high--
never to be beheld by your eye."
Tears stream down the old man's face
down he dives into the rapids
the fiddle silences.
And the Nacken will never
play again in the silvery brook.
The sound of bank and water is all I hear,
The sad resignation of a weeping spring
Or a rock that hourly sheds a tear,
And the birch leaves' vague quivering.
I do not see the river bear the boat along
The flowering shore flits past, and I remain;
And in the watery depths that I skim,
The reflected blue sky flutters like a curtain.
Meandering in their sleep, you might say the waters
Waver, no longer sure where the bank lies:
And the flower thrown in hesitates to choose.
And like this flower, all that man desires
Can settle on the river of my life,
Without teaching me which way my wishes lie.
She asked her a few questions
Shuffled the cards
Laid out the deck before her
“Pick a few won’t you? ”
“Ah yes”, she said, “was he a water sign? ”
“Yes” was her reply
“And you? ”
“Yes, water too”
“Ah, now I see…
When water meets water, you know;
It just flows,
Flows into one another
No seams, no edges, smooth without ridges
But when water meets fire
Well that’s a whole different desire
Water gets heated up by fire
But water can put fire out”
With that, she could agree and had no doubt
“What you need” she said, “is a good earth sign”
“Get away from all this water and fire,
Too much drowning, too much heat
What you need is some earth for you to meet”
So the mermaid shimmied up onto the rocks
Flipping her pearlescent tail on the shore
And twinkled her pretty shells
But the sea wanted her more……..
In unexperienced infancy
Many a sweet mistake doth lie:
Mistake though false, intending true;
A seeming somewhat more than view;
That doth instruct the mind
In things that lie behind,
And many secrets to us show
Which afterwards we come to know.
Thus did I by the water's brink
Another world beneath me think;
And while the lofty spacious skies
Reversèd there, abused mine eyes,
I fancied other feet
Came mine to touch or meet;
As by some puddle I did play
Another world within it lay.
Beneath the water people drowned,
Yet with another heaven crowned,
In spacious regions seemed to go
As freely moving to and fro:
In bright and open space
I saw their very face;
Eyes, hands, and feet they had like mine;
Another sun did with them shine.
'Twas strange that people there should walk,
And yet I could not hear them talk:
That through a little watery chink,
Which one dry ox or horse might drink,
We other worlds should see,
Yet not admitted be;
And other confines there behold
Of light and darkness, heat and cold.
I called them oft, but called in vain;
No speeches we could entertain:
Yet did I there expect to find
Some other world, to please my mind.
I plainly saw by these
A new antipodes,
Whom, though they were so plainly seen,
A film kept off that stood between.
By walking men's reversèd feet
I chanced another world to meet;
Though it did not to view exceed
A phantom, 'tis a world indeed;
Where skies beneath us shine,
And earth by art divine
Another face presents below,
Where people's feet against ours go.
Within the regions of the air,
Compassed about with heavens fair,
Great tracts of land there may be found
Enriched with fields and fertile ground;
Where many numerous hosts
In those far distant coasts,
For other great and glorious ends
Inhabit, my yet unknown friends.
O ye that stand upon the brink,
Whom I so near me through the chink
With wonder see: what faces there,
Whose feet, whose bodies, do ye wear?
I my companions see
In you another me.
They seemèd others, but are we;
Our second selves these shadows be.
Look how far off those lower skies
Extend themselves! scarce with mine eyes
I can them reach. O ye my friends,
What secret borders on those ends?
Are lofty heavens hurled
'Bout your inferior world?
Are yet the representatives
Of other peoples' distant lives?
Of all the playmates which I knew
That here I do the image view
In other selves, what can it mean?
But that below the purling stream
Some unknown joys there be
Laid up in store for me;
To which I shall, when that thin skin
Is broken, be admitted in.
Palms in hand
closed tightly fitting right into
the face.
steaming the tears falling
non stop.
planning a stop sign
a whole where i can stop
thinking im loosing
sickend almost as a dead weed
drooping towards the
hell of evil
as a deadly poisend rose.
the viens are
kiling stabbing within my
heart is eating away
as the love inside
has an attachted disease.
molds of the spreading water drops
steaming off my face.
with palms tightly in hand.
You go to a beach
and one of the first things you do
is grab a few stones,
skip them across the water
to see how many times they skip
and how far they go.
I don’t know if this is a man’s thing,
or if females do it to.
Therefore, my female friends out there
you’ll have to let me know.
Now the stock have started dying, for the Lord has sent a drought;
But we're sick of prayers and Providence -- we're going to do without;
With the derricks up above us and the solid earth below,
We are waiting at the lever for the word to let her go.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we'll sink it deeper down:
As the drill is plugging downward at a thousand feet of level,
If the Lord won't send us water, oh, we'll get it from the devil;
Yes, we'll get it from the devil deeper down.
Now, our engine's built in Glasgow by a very canny Scot,
And he marked it twenty horse-power, but he don't know what is what:
When Canadian Bill is firing with the sun-dried gidgee logs,
She can equal thirty horses and a score or so of dogs.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we're going deeper down:
If we fail to get the water, then it's ruin to the squatter,
For the drought is on the station and the weather's growing hotter,
But we're bound to get the water deeper down.
But the shaft has started caving and the sinking's very slow,
And the yellow rods are bending in the water down below,
And the tubes are always jamming, and they can't be made to shift
Till we nearly burst the engine with a forty horse-power lift.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we're going deeper down:
Though the shaft is always caving, and the tubes are always jamming,
Yet we'll fight our way to water while the stubborn drill is ramming --
While the stubborn drill is ramming deeper down.
But there's no artesian water, though we've passed three thousand feet,
And the contract price is growing, and the boss is nearly beat.
But it must be down beneath us, and it's down we've got to go,
Though she's bumping on the solid rock four thousand feet below.
Sinking down, deeper down,
Oh, we're going deeper down:
And it's time they heard us knocking on the roof of Satan's dwellin';
But we'll get artesian water if we cave the roof of hell in --
Oh! we'll get artesian water deeper down.
But it's hark! the whistle's blowing with a wild, exultant blast,
And the boys are madly cheering, for they've struck the flow at last;
And it's rushing up the tubing from four thousand feet below,
Till it spouts above the casing in a million-gallon flow.
And it's down, deeper down --
Oh, it comes from deeper down;
It is flowing, ever flowing, in a free, unstinted measure
From the silent hidden places where the old earth hides her treasure --
Where the old earth hides her treasures deeper down.
And it's clear away the timber, and it's let the water run:
How it glimmers in the shadow, how it flashes in the sun!
By the silent bells of timber, by the miles of blazing plain
It is bringing hope and comfort to the thirsty land again.
Flowing down, further down;
It is flowing deeper down
To the tortured thirsty cattle, bringing gladness in its going;
Through the droughty days of summer it is flowing, ever flowing --
It is flowing, ever flowing, further down.
Summer water streams
Through pigmented airy dreams
Every shadow seems
A serious moment for the water is
when it boils
And though one usually regards it
merely as a convenience
To have the boiling water
available for bath or table
Occasionally there is someone
around who understands
The importance of this moment
for the water—maybe a saint,
Maybe a poet, maybe a crazy
man, or just someone
temporarily disturbed
With his mind 'floating'in a
sense, away from his deepest
Personal concerns to more
'unreal' things...
A serious moment for the island
is when its trees
Begin to give it shade, and
another is when the ocean
washes
Big heavy things against its side.
One walks around and looks at
the island
But not really at it, at what is on
it, and one thinks,
It must be serious, even, to be this
island, at all, here.
Since it is lying here exposed to
the whole sea.  All its
Moments might be serious.  It is
serious, in such windy weather,
to be a sail
Or an open window, or a feather
flying in the street...
Seriousness, how often I have
thought of seriousness
And how little I have understood
it, except this: serious is urgent
And it has to do with change.  You
say to the water,
It's not necessary to boil now,
and you turn it off.  It stops
Fidgeting.  And starts to cool.  You
put your hand in it
And say, The water isn't serious
any more.  It has the potential,
However—that urgency to give
off bubbles, to
Change itself to steam.  And the
wind,
When it becomes part of a
hurricane, blowing up the
beach
And the sand dunes can't keep it
away.
Fainting is one sign of
seriousness, crying is another.
Shuddering all over is another
one.
A serious moment for the
telephone is when it rings.
And a person answers, it is
Angelica, or is it you.
A serious moment for the fly is
when its wings
Are moving, and a serious
moment for the duck
Is when it swims, when it first
touches water, then spreads
Its smile upon the water...
A serious moment for the match
is when it burst into flame...
Serious for me that I met you, and
serious for you
That you met me, and that we do
not know
If we will ever be close to anyone
again.  Serious the recognition
of the probability
That we will, although time
stretches terribly in
between...
Now two have met, now two have met,
Who may not meet again—
Two grains of sand, two blades of grass,
Two threads within the skein—
Beside the Great Grey Water.
Two hands to touch, two hearts to touch;
And, here forgathered, we
Will not forget, may not forget,
Where last forgathered three—
Beyond the Great Grey Water.
Two glasses filled, two pipes to fill—
‘To all our fortunes, brother!’
And as they clink—like so—we drink
Fair passage to the other
Across the Great Grey Water.
For three have sailed, and one has sailed,
His sins, like ours, still on him,
God sleep his soul! five oceans roll
Their long weight all upon him.
O God! thy Great Grey Water!
But I am still, and you are still,
And here our chance has flung us;
True comrades we, but…there were three
And one is not among us
Beside the Great Grey Water.
A breathing space, a biding place,
Soft lights and beakers beaded,
Then out again and on again,
Unminded and unheeded,
Across the Great Grey Water.
Now two have met where three have met
With curses or with laughter;
And so our Day shall pass away,
And so our Night come after—
But, ah! the Great Grey Water
It has always puzzled me
That the most important liquid
That a person can drink
Is a glass of water
Water has no taste
Or oder or smell you see
But it is important
To our everyday living
It flushes out our system
And helps us to lose weight
It helps us to stay regular
That's the importance of water
THE LANGUAGE OF WATER
You wait by the lake
alone
except for your self
&
your reflected self
as if the landscape
dreamt you up.
Your thoughts a flock of birds
scattered across the failing light.
Clouds laugh
run along the ground
on tiny unseen feet.
Trees stand on their heads
wriggling their toes in the air
& you
become as two
both real & unreal
as if a living
dream.
You hum
Pachabel's Canon
as sun & horizon
listen.
Not bad for a human
they both agree.
It's as if
I need a key
to enter this magical
dimension
as if I have to
invent one
...a magical one.
I take a little stone
whisper to it the secrets
of flight
and teach it how to say: "Splash! "
in the language of water.
The little stone
transformed  with its new knowledge
does as it is told
shatters
this mirror world
opens
the dream
and I enter
bewitched
as any fairytale
Prince
my voice
calling your sweet name
with longing
you turn
& we embrace
kiss
& look upon ourselves
as the dream
remakes itself
stitching itself
together with silence.
An old artist
(unknown to us then)
places us
the lovers
at the center
of his composition
adds this
final brushstroke
and pleased
with his efforts
folds up
his chair
packs up
his paints & easel
smiles at our
kisses
wishes
us a goodnight
and is gone
eaten by the twilight.
Our laughter
frail & fragile
lingering on the night air
playing peek-a-boo
with the moonlight.
I HEARD the old, old men say,
'Everything alters,
And one by one we drop away.'
They had hands like claws, and their knees
Were twisted like the old thorn-trees
By the waters.
I heard the old, old men say,
'All that's beautiful drifts away
Like the waters.'
Not knowing how to swim
I became an expert
at diving in
and swimming under water
(oh I could do that)
for a width
and then
another width back
reaching for the safety of the bar as if it were
Life itself
even pushed it so far
(I held my breath)
took to swimming lengths
underwater
the danger and the fear of death
became the thrill of it
lost in a soundless universe
living only on that one breath
my shadow like a soul distorted
accompanying me on the bottom
like a dolphin
///Time///broken///
in the refraction
of water.
Although I never learned
to swim
I became an expert
in not drowning.
***
IN AN OCTOPUS’S GARDEN WITH YOU
We play about
in the pool
(act the fool)
not swimming – playing.
I swim underwater
for a length
before passing underneath
your wide open legs.
You thrill to the touch
as I softly brush
your inner thighs
with my curly hair.
You laugh & cry:
“Again…again! ”
This time you
untying the little ribbons & bows
of your tiny bikini bottoms
giving me
a glimpse
of Heaven here
on earth
(under water)
my lungs on fire
gasping for breath
come up
clenched in my teeth
your little yellow
polka-dot bikini bottoms
only to find your top
like a jellyfish
scurrying away on
the surface.
your nakedness
split in two
by the refractive index
of the water.
“Come here! ”
you sneer
“I’ve got something
I want to
show you! ”
You sure
show me.
THE SUN stepped down from his golden throne,
And lay in the silent sea,
And the Lily had folded her satin leaves,
For a sleepy thing was she;
What is the Lily dreaming of?
Why crisp the waters blue?
See, see, she is lifting her varnished lid!
Her white leaves are glistening through!
The Rose is cooling his burning cheek
In the lap of the breathless tide; —
The Lily hath sisters fresh and fair,
That would lie by the Rose's side;
He would love her better than all the rest,
And he would be fond and true; —
But the Lily unfolded her weary lids,
And looked at the sky so blue.
Remember, remember, thou silly one,
How fast will thy summer glide,
And wilt thou wither a virgin pale,
Or flourish a blooming bride?
'O the rose is old, and thorny, and cold,
And he lives on earth, ' said she;
'But the Star is fair and he lives in the air,
And he shall my bridegroom be.'
But what if the stormy cloud should come,
And ruffle the silver sea?
Would he turn his eye from the distant sky,
To smile on a thing like thee?
O no, fair Lily, he will not send
One ray from his far-off throne;
The winds shall blow and the waves shall flow,
And thou wilt be left alone.
There is not a leaf on the mountain-top
Nor a dropp of evening dew,
Nor a golden sand on the sparkling shore,
Nor a pearl in the waters blue,
That he has not cheered with his fickle smile,
And warmed with his faithless beam, —
And will he be true to a pallid flower,
That floats on the quiet stream?
Alas for the Lily! she would not heed,
But turned to the skies afar,
And bared her breast to the trembling ray
That shot from the rising star;
The cloud came over the darkened sky,
And over the waters wide:
She looked in vain through the beating rain,
And sank in the stormy tide.
Your hands
caress the clay
it dances
to your fingertips
begs for shape
& form.
It seems as if
you create
the empty inside
first
the wet clay
waltzing with the wheel
curves that
can hold
nothing &
anything at all.
You smile.
Tell me the emptiness
is never empty.
It holds
what is to be.
It holds
the memories of wine
the thirst of water
the emptiness
is only
the something that
hasn’t happened
yet.
Years later
I still hold
those  curves in my hand
the emptiness of you
gone
still filling up
my mind.
1     With what deep murmurs through time's silent stealth
2     Doth thy transparent, cool, and wat'ry wealth
3         Here flowing fall,
4         And chide, and call,
5     As if his liquid, loose retinue stay'd
6     Ling'ring, and were of this steep place afraid;
7         The common pass
8         Where, clear as glass,
9         All must descend
10       Not to an end,
11   But quicken'd by this deep and rocky grave,
12   Rise to a longer course more bright and brave.
13       Dear stream! dear bank, where often I
14       Have sate and pleas'd my pensive eye,
15       Why, since each drop of thy quick store
16       Runs thither whence it flow'd before,
17       Should poor souls fear a shade or night,
18       Who came, sure, from a sea of light?
19       Or since those drops are all sent back
20       So sure to thee, that none doth lack,
21       Why should frail flesh doubt any more
22       That what God takes, he'll not restore?
23       O useful element and clear!
24       My sacred wash and cleanser here,
25       My first consigner unto those
26       Fountains of life where the Lamb goes!
27       What sublime truths and wholesome themes
28       Lodge in thy mystical deep streams!
29       Such as dull man can never find
30       Unless that Spirit lead his mind
31       Which first upon thy face did move,
32       And hatch'd all with his quick'ning love.
33       As this loud brook's incessant fall
34       In streaming rings restagnates all,
35       Which reach by course the bank, and then
36       Are no more seen, just so pass men.
37       O my invisible estate,
38       My glorious liberty, still late!
39       Thou art the channel my soul seeks,
40       Not this with cataracts and creeks.
Little brown surf-bather of the mountains!
Spirit of foam, lover of cataracts, shaking your wings in falling waters!
Have you no fear of the roar and rush when Nevada plunges --
Nevada, the shapely dancer, feeling her way with slim white fingers?
How dare you dash at Yosemite the mighty --
Tall, white limbed Yosemite, leaping down, down over the cliff?
Is it not enough to lean on the blue air of mountains?
Is it not enough to rest with your mate at timberline, in bushes that hug
the rocks?
Must you fly through mad waters where the heaped-up granite breaks them?
Must you batter your wings in the torrent?
Must you plunge for life and death through the foam?
I sit and stare at this empty page,
The wind howls long at the winter eaves,
The cloud is heavy, and black with rage
As squalls dance in through the myrtle leaves.
While deep inside in the cottage gloom
My love lies weary, cocooned in dreams,
I hear her cry in the darkened room
Call out one name from a nightmare scene.
‘Michelle, ’ she mutters, then groans aloud
I grit my teeth at the open door,
The wind it eddies in dust and leaves
And echoes long at the water tower.
‘Michelle, Michelle, ’ it grumbles and groans,
‘Michelle, ’ it whispers, then skips and howls;
My love rolls over in deepest sleep
While I keep watch through the early hours.
The storm comes in and the rain drives down,
Batters at windows and roof in vain,
The wires whine in a humming frown:
‘Michelle, Michelle, ’ is its one refrain.
And tears roll at my weathered cheek
The clock chimes five at the early hour,
Michelle once crawled from her bed, asleep,
And went to climb at the water tower.
Her hair was black as a raven’s coat
Her eyes set back in that tiny face,
Three winters long was her spell of dreams
Before she crept to that dreadful place.
Three winters long was our fairy child
Who lisped and chattered from heart to heart,
The cottage door had a faulty latch –
I’d always meant to replace that part.
But now, awake from her nest of dreams
I see my love at the open door,
I wait in hope, but her eyes are ice;
She’s staring out at the water tower.
Then I look down, and the page is full,
I’ve scribbled the words of an ancient rhyme,
Over and over and over again –
‘I’ll fix the latch when I get the time.’
And she goes back to her bed to cry
While I sit frozen beside the door,
The latch still rattles, the door’s ajar;
I’ve punched three holes in the water tower.
13 June 1999
Deeply into this ocean before me stare
that I might learn and learning be released.
Oh to be lifted up adrift in the current,
buoyed up in the ocean’s swirl, a feast
of sweeping lessons arriving, all declaring
terre and lunar’s bountiful caring
for those, in sick and disabled despair.
Power and sucking desire, destitute
beyond diagnosis, drugs, and hearing.
Inhuman public refuse, rejected and sent
their own kind, by drain water’s torrent
and pumped along by the gravity
of taxation torture, family disillusionment, Hell sent.
How natural then to be standing here.
My back now a swelling ocean
a living medium of nodes and antinodes
that sing and shine the length of me
that dance unholy devout rhythm
then parade with drums and cymbals
and twist me and turn me
tearing flesh and breaking the will
into fateful tragedy’s own obscene logic
that has no listenable melody, no mercy.
Of unceasing pain, broken hopes, fantasy magic potions.
Myself reduced, a mere dorsal domain
of tunnelling interacting wave trains
that meet and excel themselves, into nodal horror
only rarely cancelling, insane
in the kindly meeting embrace
of anti-nodal relief, from inhuman motion,
the bitterest of recriminations and cynical disbelief.
How natural then to be standing here
not of this race
myself, cosmic physiology, this place.
See how the tide sweeps all before its brush:
beginning beyond where sky boils water
yet penetrating into every harbour corner
with a frenzied narcotic’s rush.
Washing every stone to full lustre
tugging at every seaweed and thought
no matter what stuff once bought litters
the minds crevices and ocean’s floor.
Impossible then a more reliable mentor
moral guide or faithful harbinger.
Sense the power of meteoric forces
the lash and vapour of non-human insight.
How like foaming frothing sea water
all frequency noise is coloured and white.
And how white noise intrudes everywhere
and without fear or fight or terror
cancels and annuls all frequencies found
in true full spectrum banishment,
no echo, feedback, aharmonicity or rebound.
Noise of white water
tongue of churn and torrent.
And today this ocean’s waves,
bubbling turbulence around my waist,
a chill temptation of full spectral embrace.
A frequency for pain,
another for its loneliness
A frequency for humiliation, desperation and shame.
All to be swept away
in the white noise of tidal motion.
Wise natures metaphor my lesson
full spectral cycles, life’s truth and gain.
Justly concealing and healing
all that we need to shame
in some hidden sullen place
where need is sufficient reason
and God does not threaten with flame.
Away light of sun and private notions
to where matter’s particles dissolve in motion
that is wave-particle duality sharing.
That is full spectrum banishment
of that which is unbearable truth or suffering
that which is pain.
Is that shouts from the shore
intruders in my sacred space, ritual bath
violators, this white foamy shroud
or underwater echo,
the thrash and thump of great breakers.
Is that the pulse of pumped blood
or the periodic motion of life’s nutrient.
Is that rift and roar of turbulence
or the loss of oxygen in my head.
Is that the flail of my arms
or the swoon of the seaweed.
Am I treading water
or caressed by rising current.
False release or blessed peace.
Oh Oh what’s that you’re back… yes
I know you told me not to tell about the Heavenly Angels but… Yes
I try to be good. Oh I can’t hear you. The white noise of water.
SHY one, Shy one,
Shy one of my heart,
She moves in the firelight
pensively apart.
She carries in the dishes,
And lays them in a row.
To an isle in the water
With her would I go.
With catries in the candles,
And lights the curtained room,
Shy in the doorway
And shy in the gloom;
And shy as a rabbit,
Helpful and shy.
To an isle in the water
With her would I fly.
Reach with your whiter hands to me
Some crystal of the spring;
And I about the cup shall see
Fresh lilies flourishing.
Or else, sweet nymphs, do you but this--
To th' glass your lips incline;
And I shall see by that one kiss
The water turn'd to wine.
The water is the fish's element;
Take her from thence, none can her death prevent;
And some have said, who have transgressors been,
As good not be, as to be kept from sin.
2.
The water is the fish's element:
Leave her but there, and she is well content.
So's he, who in the path of life doth plod,
Take all, says he, let me but have my God.
3.
The water is the fish's element,
Her sportings there to her are excellent;
So is God's service unto holy men,
They are not in their element till then.
This flint, time out of mind, has there abode,
Where crystal streams make their continual road.
Yet it abides a flint as much as 'twere
Before it touched the water, or came there
Its hard obdurateness is not abated,
'Tis not at all by water penetrated.
Though water hath a soft'ning virtue in't,
This stone it can't dissolve, for 'tis a flint.
Yea, though it in the water doth remain,
It doth its fiery nature still retain.
If you oppose it with its opposite,
At you, yea, in your face, its fire 'twill spit.
Comparison.
This flint an emblem is of those that lie,
Like stones, under the Word, until they die.
Its crystal streams have not their nature changed,
They are not, from their lusts, by grace estranged.
modern day in the shade
feels like hazy, blue, pouring rain
sitting under chipmunk filled trees
watching clouds and thinking about fleas
fleas are small but not as tiny
I am fine, but please, don't mind me
growing tadpoles in the pond
just a patient, won't take long
alcohol is in my blood
inject an overdose
when water floods
the find is dry
she lied again
I don't know why?
I do know when.
I can see that
water frog
In a pond
When there is no water there is danger
When there is excess water there is danger,
Ranger of forest tells that trees die
Due to wiled fire that spreads,
It happens when there is no rain
And summer runs for long time and
When monsoon comes very late to rain,
Then excess rain brings flood in river,
Landslide is seen and devastation too,
Trees are uprooted in heavy rain and cyclone,
Climate change is a big threatening,
When there is no water life becomes desert,
When there is clean and pure water we drink,
Polluted and muddy water we cannot drink,
During heavy rain we see water and play
We see flowing water in many streets
But we feel still thirsty expressing grief!
In two thousand and one hundred drops of water
We do our daily rituals and offer prayer to God,
His greatest natural creation is water is nectar,
No other nectar can quench our thirst,
Water only quenches thirstof billions,
Water expels the grief of its scarcity and
We get unlimited happiness getting clean water.
Growing pollution at present in 2019 is in peak
What will happen to the water and air in 2100?
Perhaps we shall see a state of grief and joy,
Water scarcity will burst over its peak point,
If pollution grows at present rate
Then no river or stream water we can drink at all
Due to solar, nuclear, industrial and other radiations,
Although we will see the clean water near us
Still we shall fear to drink due to fear of cancer,
Water carrying radiation can easily cause cancer,
To avoid such danger by 2100 we should be careful,
At right now only we should promise for cleanliness,
Cleanliness with righteousness we need for purity,
In pure mind we should do meditation and link God,
Then we should add our vibrations into water sources,
Water should be charged with positive cosmic energy,
Then only we can get gradually pure water,
God helps us a lot to remove negative energy,
We have to protect greatest resource of nature,
Water is singing and dancing angel in God's garden,
Are you hearing the pure ripple sound nearer?
You feel, flowing water is singing holy song of God!
© Kumaarmani Mahakul,02 July 2019. All rights reserved.
Just not wet anymore.
Won't work as a door stop.
Must have some water.
WATER-WATER-WATER-WATER
In the baby bottle, SMALL BOTTLE-ok.
Just thirsty.
Want some cold WATER? ?
We don't have any water.
CRY-CRY-CRY, tears are water.
BUT-there not wet NOW.
TEARS NOT WET - TEARS NOT WET.
ACID RAIN no pain.
ACID RAIN no pain.
ACID RAIN no pain.
DRIP rain drops - DRIP.
Clouds full of ACID RAIN.
CRY-CRY-CRY-CRY.
11/24/2006 Joe Poewhit
scribbleclub.com - defunct
JESUS SAVES
135
Water, is taught by thirst.
Land—by the Oceans passed.
Transport—by throe—
Peace—by its battles told—
Love, by Memorial Mold—
Birds, by the Snow.
If you have forgotten water lilies floating
On a dark lake among mountains in the afternoon shade,
If you have forgotten their wet, sleepy fragrance,
Then you can return and not be afraid.
But if you remember, then turn away forever
To the plains and the prairies where pools are far apart,
There you will not come at dusk on closing water lilies,
And the shadow of mountains will not fall on your heart.
As I quietly enter
The portals of the Habitat center,
To attend the Delhi Poetree session.
I simply cannot mention
My sense of wonder and disbelief,
At spotting water lilies in the midst of glass and concrete.
The sight of half closed mauve flowers,
Growing in a pool of stagnant water,
Green serrated leaves afloat
My riveted eyes couldn’t fail to note.
Petals coming together at dusk as if in a greeting.
Perhaps, to welcome me to the meeting.
The sight filled me with ecstasy
I stood there awed by the beauty,
Pleased and filled with serenity.
This is poetry without words,
That can’t be heard.
But the eyes can see
And the heart can feel
And the soul can rejoice
Without hearing a voice.
The memory lingers in my mind,
As I lie down to unwind.
No thorns, limbs sashay longly, cheetah
walk toward
no prey, footloose, her dark blond hair
streaming, no intrusion. (Beer)     'Could I've
one? ' No
harm. 'Lotsa' people hang
out here.' No blame. (Smoke)
'Peace, ' she said,
in Chrystal clear Downeast, an aroma eluding words, &
a smile that lights a soggy
joint. 'Peace, '
she says, again,
long as she looks past the sniffing. '...I
don't think I've ever
voted... [T]here's a pebble in my shoe...' (and those
feet!) , nature jealously scraping along
her only
tan-less feature, limnable as last year's hangups.
She turns twenty-nine today,
loved me watch her walk away.
My whole life is mine, but whoever says so
will deprive me, for it is infinite.
The ripple of water, the shade of the sky
are mine; it is still the same, my life.
No desire opens me: I am full,
I never close myself with refusal-
in the rythm of my daily soul
I do not desire-I am moved;
by being moved I exert my empire,
making the dreams of night real:
into my body at the bottom of the water
I attract the beyonds of mirrors...
Translated by A. Poulin
The words are a beautiful music.
The words bounce like in water.
Water music,
loud in the clearing
off the boats,
birds, leaves.
They look for a place
to sit and eat-
no meaning,
no point.
water
need
water
so
thirsty
tired
thirsty
after labour
working
in the night
almost
spent
can't carry on
without
water
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Water Nymph come swim with me,
in the deepest valleys of the sea.
Swim through the eddies,
flirt with the sea ladies.
Many treasures here for you and me.
sirens of the sea waving happily.
Water nymph, water nymph,
did you see, they waved at me.
Come water nymph come swim with me.
Enjoy the vastness of the deep blue sea.
There are sea monkeys, sirens, mermaids and more.
Maybe we can take some treasures back to shore.
Oh cmon water nymph, don’t be shy.
Come swim with me, watch the boats sail by.
(July 1,2007)
Oh! water for me-bright water for me!
And wine for the tremulous debauchee!
It cooleth the brow, it cooleth the brain,
It maketh the faint one strong again;
It comes o'er the sense like a breeze from the sea:
All freshness, like infant purity.
Oh water for me, bright water, for me!
Give wine, give wine to the debauchee!
Fill to the brim! fill, fill to the brim!
Let the flowing crystal kiss the rim:
For my hand is steady, my eye is true,
For I, like the flowers, drink nothing but dew.
Oh! water, bright water's a mine of wealth,
And the ores it yieldeth are vigour and health.
So water, pure water for me, for me!
And wine for the tremulous debauchee!
When over the hills, like a gladsome bride,
Morning walks forth in her beauty's pride,
And leading a band of laughing hours,
Brushes the dew from the nodding flowers,
Oh! cheerily then my voice is heard,
Mingling with that of the soaring bird,
Who flingeth abroad his matins loud,
As he freshens his wing in the cold grey cloud.
But when evening has quitted her sheltering yew,
Drowsily flying, and weaving anew,
Her dusky meshes o'er land and sea,
How gently, oh Sleep, fall thy poppies on me!
For water I drink, pure, cold and bright,
And my dreams are of heaven the live long night.
So, hurrah for thee, water, hurrah, hurrah!
Thou art silver and gold, thou art ribbon and star,
Hurrah for bright water! hurrah! hurrah!
Save Water
Free Verse Poem
.We drink and use water,
.Without knowing what it does,
.What benefits it gives,
.Water is around but has decreased,
.Without knowing that the world is drying,
.Before the leaves get crooked up as life,
.We need to save water, to save our life,
.Water helps everything,
.As we need to help it too,
.We do not need water just to drink and use,
.We need it, to help it, so it can help us too.
poemtheart.com
(Sarah Shahzad, November 2019)
In the pond in the park
all things are doubled:
Long buildings hang and
wriggle gently. Chimneys
are bent legs bouncing
on clouds below. A flag
wags like a fishhook
down there in the sky.
The arched stone bridge
is an eye, with underlid
in the water. In its lens
dip crinkled heads with hats
that don't fall off. Dogs go by,
barking on their backs.
A baby, taken to feed the
ducks, dangles upside-down,
a pink balloon for a buoy.
Treetops deploy a haze of
cherry bloom for roots,
where birds coast belly-up
in the glass bowl of a hill;
from its bottom a bunch
of peanut-munching children
is suspended by their
sneakers, waveringly.
A swan, with twin necks
forming the figure 3,
steers between two dimpled
towers doubled. Fondly
hissing, she kisses herself,
and all the scene is troubled:
water-windows splinter,
tree-limbs tangle, the bridge
folds like a fan.
Water still, water deep, how many secrets do you keep?
We look upon your surface calm, and feel the peace that is a balm.
Now the gentle stream runs faster, racing swiftly swiftly ---
Over boundless cataracts. Water -- share your energy with me.
As a big wide river flowing slowly to the sea,
It fills me with its strength. Love and peace now cover me.
Sunshine on the water fills everything with gold.
And silver from the moonbeams. Feel the joy you now behold.
Water in its many forms soothes the jangled nerves,
Isn't this a pleasure that everyone deserves?
The spirit of life,
spreads everywhere,
to all corners of our globe.
Rain, mist, fog, snow,
form lakes, rivers,
babbling running brooks;
the carriers of life’s soul
life’s bountiful
identity and joy.
Without it,
grasses brown,
trees rot and fall,
no leaves, flowers,
seeds, or fruit;
no shade, no scent,
no colour, food.
Animals, people, die;
no creatures great or small.
Deserts of want appear
no life or giving;
there is a thirst upon the land.
In time, all will wither,
wilt, rot and die.
Then a dirt, an ash
a sandy earth of want,
no open hand,
all life has gone.
More valuable than gold,
a treasure for us all.
use wisely, it is life.
All used up;  We die!
You sway
Like my emotions
You glitter
Into my eyes
You swallow
Me inside
You give me warmth
You make me shiver
You keep the petals of a rose
From wither
I look at you
You are transparent
But within you
There is beauty
There is life
And without you
My petals will stiffen and wither
water the world
before anything
else came along
from the water,
i heard record of things
old and new
they unveil them
to me with its
tingling sounds
the piano nature's
hands have played
since creation began
if there is anything
i wish my poem
to flow, it would
be water - in the
stream, river, sea,
waterfall,  under the ice,
wherever it is,
water that harbours
a life of its own
and within it
a million lives
- seeps its way
into everybody's heart
it fools all agelbra
master with its agility
the only medium that
can take any shape
any form vapour,
snow and ice
if there is anything
i wish my poem to run
it would be the water
splashing, streaming,
swirling, splitting, spilling,
cornering, dancing down
reader's heart
water, in it are secrets
of news both good and bad
- of the present, of the future -
if you would just  let your heart,
soul and mind flow with its rhythm
you could hear it playing out
all the secrets it held since
the beginning of time in the
most delightful tune
Water is pure,
Water is natural,
Water is healthy,
Water can help all
Water is simple,
Water is free,
Water can help the lives,
The lives of you and me
Everything on the earth bristled, the bramble
pricked and the green thread
nibbled away, the petal fell, falling
until the only flower was the falling itself.
Water is another matter,
has no direction but its own bright grace,
runs through all imaginable colors,
takes limpid lessons
from stone,
and in those functionings plays out
the unrealized ambitions of the foam.
I am the contrails in the sky
Transporting your love to my heart-felt joy
I am those rolling white riffles splashing
Across those ancient glistening granite rocks
I am the warm tingling steaming massage
Sensate-ly refreshing your tired soul
I am that energizing frozen cube
That cools that sweet tea you sip on our porch
I am the main ingredient carrying
Life-giving nutrients to your keen mind
I am the visible steam rising up
That prepares your scrumptious wild rice tonight
I am those fluffy white clouds high above
That sponge down the dust into the earth
I am that which keeps your Force Five afloat
So you can sail on to your newer dreams
I am your frozen-ed winter delight
Magical crystals spun during the night
I am that drink your ravenous soul desires
Sprinkled grace, His most dear promise-d gift
(Mountaintop Cottage, Tennessee
October 2,2006)
The river
has not entered the house yet.
I pack framed photographs:
weddings, babies,
dead uncles, and grandparents,
set aside ceramic eggs,
balanced on wooden stands,
to reach the wedding cake couple,
equidistant between two photographs.
My mother,
in her borrowed wedding dress,
holding a bouquet of artificial flowers,
whiter than Aunt Rose Mary's silk skirt.
My father,
in his Navy uniform, bearing
the insignia of a Water Tender,
his cap worn tilted to the right.
Standing midpoint,
the wedding cake couple
represents their union.
Flesh colored paint overlaps
the neckline of the bride,
executed too quickly.
The groom's black top-hat
is worn, a wedding ring shape
encircles the edge of the crown.
My mother is dead,
my father has remarried.  He's left
behind the photographs, the eggs,
the wedding cake couple.
The river enters an open door.
I salvage what I can.
Let me drink water
I know water is
Only true drink for me.
Food juices and soups
Are my foods,
Coffee tea wine
Are all poison.
I am thirsty
Give me a drop of
Pure water.
Let me sip water
As slowly as I
Comfortably can.
I know when I am
Sipping water
I am taking internal bath,
That eliminates uric acid,
excess of salt and sugar
And waste products of my body.
I know taking water
With meals dilutes
My stomach juice and
Hinders digestion.
Water, water,
Let me drink water
O my dear, I know
Water is useful
In constipation,
Asthma, flatulence,
Piles and fever.
Let me take bath
In water,
Let me rub my body
With hands before bathing
Let me take light exercises
Or for a few minutes slight sun-bath.
Let me take hot and cold hip baths
Together to get relieve from
Retention of urine, flatulence ad pain.
Let me take spinal bath
I know it is useful for my
Blood pressure, insomnia.
I take steam bath for my
Tonsillitis throat troubles,
Rheumatism, sciatica, pimples etc.
Hot foot bath is an antidote
To malaria and heaviness.
Let me swim in water
O my dear, I know it is
Beneficial to health
And it serves as a recreative activity.
Give me a cup of water
O my dear, and give me a
Better treatment and a better life.
Life is water
Water is life
Without water
The earth would
Become desert.
Let me enjoy
The recycling of water
From rain to ocean
In this rainy season,
Let me say it is
My life's new version  .
Water Water Everywhere
Water water everywhere and not a drop to drink
That is of course until   this lovely ship does sink
There is nothing to compare to a sunrise     while at sea
Oh how I've missed those moments       special just to me
Sunrises on the ocean with        no one else around
Seems to show God's near us   without a single sound
Sunsets are special too,   dull moments they are not
Beautiful red  colors emitting hues   not too soon forgot
Night time on the ocean      brings many things anew
On moonless skies it seems so cold with just a hint of dew
Of course those starry nights are     quite a sight to see
The beauty of those twinklers was fashioned    just for me
I'll always miss the wonders the stars have    brought to me
And when I die I'd like my ashes spread far,   far out to sea
Jim 1999
Water water every where but not a dropp to spare,
It’s time to stop and really think
A war we must declare.
The stone dry enemy will dry all the river beds,
So we’ll fight this war together
With loaded Aussie water tanks..
If man can pump his oil a thousand ‘K’s
Across the dessert lands, let’s get pumping
Northern monsoon lakes to dryer southern lands.
And in this raining fight of ours
We must never never cower,
And hope all the couples in our hot sunburnt land
Will always pull together and share
Their morning shower.
Water, water everywhere,
And not a drop to drink.
The river Ely burst its banks,
Making many a welsh heart sink.
A flood of biblical proportions,
Well, perhaps the odd drop or two.
Has drowned our cherished museum,
But the fine staff all came through.
All that was so painfully yesterday,
For the dark waters have ebbed away.
And so our robust museum of the year,
Is radiantly open this St David's Day!
Water, water you’re good for me
You help me hydrate and make me pee
Sodium and you are meant to be
Water, water I must have thee
I drink you in and you come out
Can’t have too much or little without a doubt
Water, water you’re clear and cool
You help brake food down into stool
When my kidneys scream and shout
You reabsorb and balance out
Water, water when I’m thirsty
You with fluoride keep teeth more than three
I must have you to survive
Cause without you I’m not alive
Water, water so plain to see
I’ll drink you till the end of me
Water water water
Where there is water
There is life.
No water no life.
A dropp of water
A deity.
Keep it
Serve it.
‘Water' seems a fitting title
of this rhyme on something vital
for the beings we take care of
and the others we're aware of.
Life on Earth depends on water,
whether human or sea otter,
fish or fowl, whatever creatures
having some subsistence features.
Water may have been existent
in archaic ages distant
long before we tend to think—
even water that we drink.
Yet when in our galactic history
it was formed has been a mystery…
The researchers have debated
as to if it could be stated
that this liquid can be dated
back to when it's been related
there was a disk of gas and dust
and molecules that were a must
for water that originated
when our ‘system' was created
(namely, ‘solar', where we're fated)  …
Or might it be more antiquated? !
Could we trace to outer space
the genesis that took place
of the water in our glass?
If indeed this came to pass,
it would open up new queries,
not to mention E.T. theories…
But that's within the jurisdiction
of those who compose science fiction.
Many scientists have avowed
that from the Sun's parental cloud
of interstellar dust and gas,
from which our star derived its mass,
water, well, to be precise,
water in the form of ice
was inherited there and then,
in that olden where and when…
Some astronomers theorize
that what we may not realize
is up to half the H2O
within the oceans that we know
right here on Planet Earth could be,
yes, older than the Sun we see
illuminating from on high,
in daylight's path across the sky,
our frets and frolics down below,
where heedlessly we come and go…
Water and life go hand in hand,
from briny deep to wooded land.
In the mariner's rhyming tale,
all the winds at sea did fail,
and the sailors lives were lost—
the idle ship was merely tossed
as if on a painted ocean,
painted ship, devoid of motion.
There was water ‘every where',
Coleridge says, except that there
was none to quench their parching thirst;
so the voyage seemed doubly cursed.
Water is such precious stuff!
Do we value it enough?
Oh, may there never come a time
(as in that famous rhyming rime)
when as to water here on Earth—
where mortals meet their death and birth—
we too will ever need to think
that there is not a drop to drink!
< October 8,2014 >
Water water The Ganges water
Flows from You
All Truth come down
With this sacred water
Life is with this
Sinless and
Glowing effulgence
Emanating again and again
With this I am expressing
My words of Love
Words of affection
You are my finest selection
I am doing everything here
Only for Your glorification.
Water water turbulent water
No water in future
Try to live without water
A drop of water you can not find
Here there except in media
Imagine image of a thirsty man
And beast and bird and parched
And cracked earth
No water in sea in ocean
In village cities industries population
Water water turbulent water
O my brother, save water
For your son and daughter
If you want them to be here.
Water for life
to quench thirst
to wash away dirt
to sustain life
if food is denied.
Water, water, water,
wrapped up by toxic chemicals
filled with lead and copper;
bringing illness and rashes,
fear and hazard to everyone's life.
Oh, water, water, water
What has mankind done
to make you so unkind?
___________________________
Remembering water crisis in Michigan
Water water water and water
Give me water in this hot summer.
And water has atom, water has favor,
And water water water and water
Water as cloud, and water drops
In action, in creation and
Water is the symbol of supreme devotion.
Water, water. water and water
And in water there is true love
That is flowing within and outside.
What a girl called "the dailiness of life"
(Adding an errand to your errand.  Saying,
"Since you're up . . ." Making you a means to
A means to a means to) is well water
Pumped from an old well at the bottom of the world.
The pump you pump the water from is rusty
And hard to move and absurd, a squirrel-wheel
A sick squirrel turns slowly, through the sunny
Inexorable hours.  And yet sometimes
The wheel turns of its own weight, the rusty
Pump pumps over your sweating face the clear
Water, cold, so cold! you cup your hands
And gulp from them the dailiness of life.
The water
is flowing
with rage,
it splashes
and bubbles,
hurtles and
troubles,
anyone
who is
near.
The water
is flowing
downstream,
pulling
pebbles,
pinecones,
and people.
It's roaring
in the ears
of the raftors,
who are hollering
to be heard
over
the white
foaming
water.
Old Noah he had an ostrich farm and fowls on the largest scale,
He ate his egg with a ladle in a egg-cup big as a pail,
And the soup he took was Elephant Soup and fish he took was Whale,
But they all were small to the cellar he took when he set out to sail,
And Noah he often said to his wife when he sat down to dine,
"I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine."
The cataract of the cliff of heaven fell blinding off the brink
As if it would wash the stars away as suds go down a sink,
The seven heavens came roaring down for the throats of hell to drink,
And Noah he cocked his eye and said, "It looks like rain, I think,
The water has drowned the Matterhorn as deep as a Mendip mine,
But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine."
But Noah he sinned, and we have sinned; on tipsy feet we trod,
Till a great big black teetotaller was sent to us for a rod,
And you can't get wine at a P.S.A., or chapel, or Eisteddfod,
For the Curse of Water has come again because of the wrath of God,
And water is on the Bishop's board and the Higher Thinker's shrine,
But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine.
Naked TV dinners
: the remains of...
you absentmindedly
“playing” with me
me nonchalantly
“playing” with you.
And now with
THE NEWS AT TEN
we both
... come!
And now
...for the weather.
A process in the weather of the heart
Turns damp to dry; the golden shot
Storms in the freezing tomb.
A weather in the quarter of the veins
Turns night to day; blood in their suns
Lights up the living worm.
A process in the eye forwarns
The bones of blindness; and the womb
Drives in a death as life leaks out.
A darkness in the weather of the eye
Is half its light; the fathomed sea
Breaks on unangled land.
The seed that makes a forest of the loin
Forks half its fruit; and half drops down,
Slow in a sleeping wind.
A weather in the flesh and bone
Is damp and dry; the quick and dead
Move like two ghosts before the eye.
A process in the weather of the world
Turns ghost to ghost; each mothered child
Sits in their double shade.
A process blows the moon into the sun,
Pulls down the shabby curtains of the skin;
And the heart gives up its dead.
On such a cloudy day why you are far away?
Lightning is writing in sky what I want to say
The cloudy sky is like my gloomy face
The thunderbolts are showing my distress
The raindrops are like my sorrowful tears
My soul is on your way like pioneers
The murmur of the leaves is like my whisper
Please meet me in such a romantic weather
It isn't the foe that we fear;
It isn't the bullets that whine;
It isn't the business career
Of a shell, or the bust of a mine;
It isn't the snipers who seek
To nip our young hopes in the bud:
No, it isn't the guns,
And it isn't the Huns --
It's the MUD,
MUD,
MUD.
It isn't the melee we mind.
That often is rather good fun.
It isn't the shrapnel we find
Obtrusive when rained by the ton;
It isn't the bounce of the bombs
That gives us a positive pain:
It's the strafing we get
When the weather is wet --
It's the RAIN,
RAIN,
RAIN.
It isn't because we lack grit
We shrink from the horrors of war.
We don't mind the battle a bit;
In fact that is what we are for;
It isn't the rum-jars and things
Make us wish we were back in the fold:
It's the fingers that freeze
In the boreal breeze --
It's the COLD,
COLD,
COLD.
Oh, the rain, the mud, and the cold,
The cold, the mud, and the rain;
With weather at zero it's hard for a hero
From language that's rude to refrain.
With porridgy muck to the knees,
With sky that's a-pouring a flood,
Sure the worst of our foes
Are the pains and the woes
Of the RAIN,
THE COLD,
AND THE MUD.
At sea I learned the weather,
At sea I learned to know
That waves raged not forever,
Winds did not ever blow.
I learned that, 'mid the thunder,
Was nothing might avail
But lying to and riding
The storm with scanted sail,
Knowing that calm would follow
Filled full of golden light
Though hail and thunder deafened
The watches of the night.
And, now today I'm sailing
The changing seas no more,
But tied up to a woman
And snug and safe ashore,
With pipe and 'baccy handy
And Sal still loving me -
I tell you that I'm thankful
For things I learned at sea!
Scorching sun may
Push us to stop and turn
In pricking hot sand
Our feet might burn
On our way, we may be
Stopped by twisting hurricanes
And might be troubled
By lashing heavy rains
Winter would be seething
May haunt us with chilling cold
And would try its every trick
To check and keep us in its fold
Every journey has
Its share of hostile weather
We are sure to overcome them
If we try together
We just have to keep the faith
And trust each other
Our journey will have many more
Autumns and Springs for weather
26 August 2009
Fountains that frisk and sprinkle
The moss they overspill;
Pools that the breezes crinkle;
The wheel beside the mill,
With its wet, weedy frill;
Wind-shadows in the wheat;
A water-cart in the street;
The fringe of foam that girds
An islet's ferneries;
A green sky's minor thirds -
To live, I think of these!
Of ice and glass the tinkle,
Pellucid, silver-shrill;
Peaches without a wrinkle;
Cherries and snow at will,
From china bowls that fill
The senses with a sweet
Incuriousness of heat;
A melon's dripping sherds;
Cream-clotted strawberries;
Dusk dairies set with curds -
To live, I think of these!
Vale-lily and periwinkle;
Wet stone-crop on the sill;
The look of leaves a-twinkle
With windlets clear and still;
The feel of a forest rill
That wimples fresh and fleet
About one's naked feet;
The muzzles of drinking herds;
Lush flags and bulrushes;
The chirp of rain-bound birds -
To live, I think of these!
Envoy
Dark aisles, new packs of cards,
Mermaidens' tails, cool swards,
Dawn dews and starlit seas,
White marbles, whiter words -
To live, I think of these!
It's a Northern winter wonderland
Happy couples walking hand in hand
Department stores aglow with lights
Christmas trees always in sight
Snow falls down on New York City
Snow falls down on New York City
It's true that the place is lit up bright
And maybe the streets look amazing at night
And while the country can seem kind of plain
Alabama's got sunshine when New York's got rain
Frost on rooftops and gifts with bows
Teddy bears in shop windows
Santa in the mall with children on his lap
So much to do, so many presents to wrap
And snow falls down on New York City
Snow falls down on New York City
It's true that the place is lit up bright
And maybe the streets look amazing at night
And while the country can seem kind of plain
Alabama's got sunshine when New York's got rain
There's no white Christmas for Dixie this year
But we don't need snow to bring holiday cheer
Maybe we're simple but we still do our part
To keep Christmas a tradition that lives in the heart
So let the snow fall down on new York City
Just let it fall down on New York City
Dear Love, where the red lilies blossomed and grew
The white snows are falling;
And all through the woods where I wandered with you
The loud winds are calling;
And the robin that piped to us tune upon tune,
Neath the oak, you remember,
O'er hill-top and forest has followed the June
And left us December.
He has left like a friend who is true in the sun
And false in the shadows;
He has found new delights in the land where he's gone,
Greener woodlands and meadows.
Let him go! what care we? let the snow shroud the lea,
Let it drift on the heather;
We can sing through it all: I have you, you have me.
And we'll laugh at the weather.
The old year may die and a new year be born
That is bleaker and colder:
It cannot dismay us; we dare it, we scorn,
For our love makes us bolder.
Ah, Robin! sing loud on your far distant lea,
You friend in fair weather!
But here is a song sung that's fuller of glee,
By two warm hearts together.
But the weather is becoming more hospitable
in this part of the world
------
wet morning
but is already
brightening up
a time  for the sun
on your face
the impish wind is raising
my gauzy scarf
is sailing and as the kite
on the sky
an August sun
through leaves
it is lighting
and  is going out
as the candle blown out
when the night is falling...
Sunshine and Roses they make us smile-
As do the soft Springs blossoming trees-
Bringing us total delight-ever so bright...
Happiness can be found in Springs most glorious breeze;
Effervescent are the brooks waters in the glen-
As the BumbleBees pollinate the blooms...
Alas, Springs clouds oft' bring thunder so loud...
And grayer days that just loom with gloom;
But ne'er do these days last for long-
As the Sunshine and Roses return...
Refreshed with soft air-and days so fair...
Leaving no room for a days weather concern;
It rained and drenched the waiting night,
Heavy torrents did it pour;
Next morning, all was clean and bright,
I could not ask for more.
The sky was baby powder blue,
the clouds had slipped away;
Sunlight deigned to shine on cue,
a refeshing brand new day.
I almost skipped onto the street,
this day felt new, washed clean;
Smiling, as I turned to greet,
the trees, in vibrant green.
The storm had passed at last,
I laughed with sweet relief;
No more skies downcast,
No deary days of grief.
Then suddenly,  I felt a drop,
hit hard upon my cheek;
It hurt as if it wouldn't stop,
It made me feel so weak.
As I turned my face to wince,
the skies turned angry grey;
Clouds gathered with a vengeance,
And the sun just hid away.
Rain burst from the thundering skies,
in a grandiose downpour;
Just like life...I turned my eyes;
Nothing is for sure.
©
Weather is changing again…
Summer is slowly giving way to winter,
Yellow leaves are falling,
New ones are coming in their place,
Early mornings now have a soft, soothing touch,
The ravaging afternoon sun has cooled down,
Evenings have a crisp, chilly feel
And nights are pleasant with clear, starry skies…
Yes, in a way
This winter will be like the last winter…
But in lots of ways
It will not be like the last one…
New experiences,
New friends,
New sensations,
Fresh insights,
Now light up my way;
And I plod ahead,
With a clearer vision
With a better understanding
of self, of people;
Humming a song
that I had never heard before
A song that has set my pulse racing...
A song that has touched my heart...
Do you barely see,
the sun in the sky,
when you know it's very high.
You stand in the sunshine,
and you wonder why,
on a day like today,
you go inside and stay.
When the snow flakes,
come your way
you wished you could
go outside today.
You wait for warm days,
cold is all you get,
making you have a fit.
Finally spring is here,
flowers are blooming,
love this weather, oh so dear.
wrote 2-7-07
To-day, fair Thisbe, winsome girl!
Strays o'er the meads where daisies blow,
Or, ling'ring where the brooklets purl,
Laves in the cool, refreshing flow.
To-morrow, Thisbe, with a host
Of amorous suitors in her train,
Comes like a goddess forth to coast
Or skate upon the frozen main.
To-day, sweet posies mark her track,
While birds sing gayly in the trees;
To-morrow morn, her sealskin sack
Defies the piping polar breeze.
So Doris is to-day enthused
By Thisbe's soft, responsive sighs,
And on the morrow is confused
By Thisbe's cold, repellent eyes.
Glancing out our western window, toward the Ocean beyond some hills,
I see, near sundown, a layering of assorted clouds, like alternating color spills;
shades of gray this November day, plus white, and some almost resembling amber.
It makes me imagine a playing field over which winged-angels might clamber.
I took some photos to show my wife and now the scene has changed.
A dark gray streak is beside one forest-fire orange.  Clouds are also rearranged.
As more time passes, whatever remnants there were of blue sky disappear,
and light and dark grays and almost-white stand alone……, as sunset is quite near.
(Nov.2012)
Do not ever, ever, ever
ask an Englishman about the weather.
Believe you me, it’s a big mistake
that you should never ever make.
For he’ll go on and on forever
until you think that you will never
get away from his mad tirade
about Fahrenheit and Centigrade.
They learn it at their mothers’ knees:
it is the national disease
where they all seem quite possessed
by this strange climatic zest.
They’ll talk and talk for simply hours
on the possibilities of showers
or the outside chance of freezing fog
should you want to walk the dog.
Thunderstorms will get them going
and they really love it when it’s snowing.
Especially they find it pleasing
to prophesy a spell of freezing.
They like their weather pretty dire
in places such as Staffordshire
and when it comes to wind and gale,
they play fine tunes on the Beaufort Scale.
Most of all, they really get boring
explaining why it’ll soon be pouring,
and you’ll learn more than you want to know
of drizzle, rain and sleet and snow.
So I will give you this advice:
“An Englishman can be very nice
but keep him off all talk of weather
or you’ll be stuck with him for ever.”
The warm front
of my laughter
collides with
the cold front of her
silence
I can see there is
stormy weather
ahead.
This level reach of blue is not my sea;
Here are sweet waters, pretty in the sun,
Whose quiet ripples meet obediently
A marked and measured line, one after one.
This is no sea of mine. that humbly laves
Untroubled sands, spread glittering and warm.
I have a need of wilder, crueler waves;
They sicken of the calm, who knew the storm.
So let a love beat over me again,
Loosing its million desperate breakers wide;
Sudden and terrible to rise and wane;
Roaring the heavens apart; a reckless tide
That casts upon the heart, as it recedes,
Splinters and spars and dripping, salty weeds.
Once a favorite conversation piece,
now something more like a disease.
A weathervane sings, a wind chime clangs.
It’s December, only a slight silver breeze,
but already I’m imagining the tangled
metal of cars, birds falling from the trees.
My therapist says fear is normal,
that it’s simply a matter of degrees,
the brain has an internal mechanism,
she says, a switch that flicks on and off with ease.
I imagine a kind of silver machine
in my brain, humming like a hive of bees,
fear hopping from synapse to synapse
like some sort of electric, Post-modern flea.
Each day I swallow my grief like a pill,
ignore my therapist’s advice, my wife’s pleas.
I wait for the sky to fall, longing for the days
when wind was only wind, trees only trees.
Walking in the rain
Catching the raindrops
As we laughed in love
Was fun with you, gentle you
But now the dark clouds
Bringing storm and rain
Terrify me
Real funeral weather
As it is today
Pitter patter, pitter patter
The winds have howled and gone
Taking you along
I remember the day you went away
The sky cried tears
Day was dark as night
When the gods took you away
I was alone,
Alone, alone, alone
Crying in the rain
Funeral weather
--
A glimmer of spring recedes,
as winter rebounds towards furor
Sending off the cheerful malarkey
To be draped with an abstemious simmer
The rooftops bearing with tarmac
Become throttled with frosty garments
With bars made of ice, and walls made of snow
My sights claustrophobic and glacially narrow
And in the blink of an eye you'll hear my voice gripe
Muttering nonsensical adjectives of indolent tripe
But to be perfectly frank, this is good Canadian weather
The prelude of sallow lawns
Is disrupted by the Siberian sawn
Waylaying afterglows for lost summers
For rosy cheeks purchased from arctic dowers
I've traded my Hikers for Mukluks
Annoyed by the downgrade of gear
To shovel hours away, to keep contents at bay
Hunching over my back to find a parchment of clay
That will deliver the spark, to enthusiasms drought
Emancipating my spirits which are the size of a mouse
Though to be absolutely blunt this is good Canadian weather
To savour Februarys warmth
Shun caution towards Marches girth
For the balmy thrills of cupid
Coif unpleasant gifts from the ides
Never celebrate a battle in session
When the odds are constantly threatened
And Mother Nature's deck is blurring
She'll call the house down on top of your jeering
Condemning us to return to hibernation
And the chronicles of repeated complaining
So in absolute fact, to the vault in my heart
All of this muddle, is good Canadian weather
It is true that, older than man and ages to outlast him, the Pacific surf
Still cheerfully pounds the worn granite drum;
But there's no storm; and the birds are still, no song; no kind of excess;
Nothing that shines, nothing is dark;
There; is neither joy nor grief nor a person, the sun's tooth
sheathed in cloud,
And life has no more desires than a stone.
The stormy conditions of time and change are all abrogated, the essential
Violences of survival, pleasure,
Love, wrath and pain, and the curious desire of knowing, all perfectly
suspended.
In the cloudy light, in the timeless quietness,
One explores deeper than the nerves or heart of nature, the womb or soul,
To the bone, the careless white bone, the excellence.
Bursts from a rending East in flaws
The young green leaflet's harrier, sworn
To strew the garden, strip the shaws,
And show our Spring with banner torn.
Was ever such virago morn?
The wind has teeth, the wind has claws.
All the wind's wolves through woods are loose,
The wild wind's falconry aloft.
Shrill underfoot the grassblade shrews,
At gallop, clumped, and down the croft
Bestrid by shadows, beaten, tossed;
It seems a scythe, it seems a rod.
The howl is up at the howl's accost;
The shivers greet and the shivers nod.
Is the land ship? we are rolled, we drive
Tritonly, cleaving hiss and hum;
Whirl with the dead, or mount or dive,
Or down in dregs, or on in scum.
And drums the distant, pipes the near,
And vale and hill are grey in grey,
As when the surge is crumbling sheer,
And sea-mews wing the haze of spray.
Clouds--are they bony witches?--swarms,
Darting swift on the robber's flight,
Hurry an infant sky in arms:
It peeps, it becks; 'tis day, 'tis night.
Black while over the loop of blue
The swathe is closed, like shroud on corse.
Lo, as if swift the Furies flew,
The Fates at heel at a cry to horse!
Interpret me the savage whirr:
And is it Nature scourged, or she,
Her offspring's executioner,
Reducing land to barren sea?
But is there meaning in a day
When this fierce angel of the air,
Intent to throw, and haply slay,
Can for what breath of life we bear,
Exact the wrestle?--Call to mind
The many meanings glistening up
When Nature to her nurslings kind,
Hands them the fruitage and the cup!
And seek we rich significance
Not otherwhere than with those tides
Of pleasure on the sunned expanse,
Whose flow deludes, whose ebb derides?
Look in the face of men who fare
Lock-mouthed, a match in lungs and thews
For this fierce angel of the air,
To twist with him and take his bruise.
That is the face beloved of old
Of Earth, young mother of her brood:
Nor broken for us shows the mould
When muscle is in mind renewed:
Though farther from her nature rude,
Yet nearer to her spirit's hold:
And though of gentler mood serene,
Still forceful of her fountain-jet.
So shall her blows be shrewdly met,
Be luminously read the scene
Where Life is at her grindstone set,
That she may give us edgeing keen,
String us for battle, till as play
The common strokes of fortune shower.
Such meaning in a dagger-day
Our wits may clasp to wax in power.
Yea, feel us warmer at her breast,
By spin of blood in lusty drill,
Than when her honeyed hands caressed,
And Pleasure, sapping, seemed to fill.
Behold the life at ease; it drifts.
The sharpened life commands its course.
She winnows, winnows roughly; sifts,
To dip her chosen in her source:
Contention is the vital force,
Whence pluck they brain, her prize of gifts,
Sky of the senses! on which height,
Not disconnected, yet released,
They see how spirit comes to light,
Through conquest of the inner beast,
Which Measure tames to movement sane,
In harmony with what is fair.
Never is Earth misread by brain:
That is the welling of her, there
The mirror: with one step beyond,
For likewise is it voice; and more,
Benignest kinship bids respond,
When wail the weak, and them restore
Whom days as fell as this may rive,
While Earth sits ebon in her gloom,
Us atomies of life alive
Unheeding, bent on life to come.
Her children of the labouring brain,
These are the champions of the race,
True parents, and the sole humane,
With understanding for their base.
Earth yields the milk, but all her mind
Is vowed to thresh for stouter stock.
Her passion for old giantkind,
That scaled the mount, uphurled the rock,
Devolves on them who read aright
Her meaning and devoutly serve;
Nor in her starlessness of night
Peruse her with the craven nerve:
But even as she from grass to corn,
To eagle high from grubbing mole,
Prove in strong brain her noblest born,
The station for the flight of soul.
W HEN misty, misty mornings come,
When wild geese low are flying,
And down along the reedy marsh
The mallard drakes are crying;
When cattle leave the highest hills,
And blackbirds flock together --
By all these signs the hunter knows
Has come good hunting weather.
I grew. Foul weather, dreams, forebodings
Were bearing me - a Ganymede -
Away from earth; distress was growing
Like wings - to spread, to hold, to lead.
I grew. The veil of woven sunsets
At dusk would cling to me and swell.
With wine in glasses we would gather
To celebrate a sad farewell,
And yet the eagle's clasp already
Refreshes forearms' heated strain.
The days have gone, when, love, you floated
Above me, harbinger of pain.
Do we not share the sky, the flying?
Now, like a swan, his death-song done,
Rejoice! In triumph, with the eagle
Shoulder to shoulder, we are one.
There is one thing about Montana
That always fascinates me
It is that from one minute to another
You don’t know what the weather will be
It can be so hot that it seems
You are barely able to breathe
Scorching hot everywhere
Without a single breeze
And then you hadn’t noticed
But a few clouds had drifted in
You look up at the big sky
Not realizing what will begin
But begin it surely does
The wind suddenly blows hard
A few sprinkles are felt at first
On your roof and in your yard
Thunder rolls like bowling balls
Across your heavenly world
A storm like you’ve never seen
Has suddenly been hurled
Yep, it’s always a mystery
As clouds will slowly gather
How things change so quickly
I love the Montana weather!
Weather Forecast in Kabul.
Rain in Kabul, the weather woman on TV said.
and I wondered if that was a good or bad thing.
Slippery roads and confused drones, what do
I know? Perhaps the rain is just what the poppy
fields need right now. Weather forecast on T. V
is pure entertainment, all respectable channels
have a person with a map who looks confident
when trying to predict the tomorrow. Danish
bomber pilots listen to weather forecast too,
will there be sun over Libya? Kaddafi hasn’t any
more planes left, we are now bombing his tanks.
No-fly –zone? I didn’t know tanks could fly. Rain
in Chad, that’s sad, they like Kaddafi he has been
helpful to this poor country. Never mind all that
he’s a despot and so says all of us.
A sheet of wet curls lay over her face
she'd been drenched by the downpour
and her brand new shoes were indubitably ruined
Louisiana weather
could do this to a girl
one day is sunny and humid
and the next, is cold and wet
Most of your winter is hot
and most of your spring is cold
its changes can be so bold
it's the strangest weather story ever told
Every thing changes
Changes the face of relations
In the markets of exchanging hearts
The much known face changes
Into an unknown like the path
You tread just before the sandy storm
Has any one ever refused to walk
Along with you who comes
In the days of your sorrow
Has any river felt any scarcity of water
In the days of flood?
Then, why the heart of men and women
Changes like the weather of Melbourne?
'Tis Christmas weather, and a country house
Receives us: rooms are full: we can but get
An attic-crib. Such lovers will not fret
At that, it is half-said. The great carouse
Knocks hard upon the midnight's hollow door,
But when I knock at hers, I see the pit.
Why did I come here in that dullard fit?
I enter, and lie couched upon the floor.
Passing, I caught the coverlet's quick beat:--
Come, Shame, burn to my soul! and Pride, and Pain--
Foul demons that have tortured me, enchain!
Out in the freezing darkness the lambs bleat.
The small bird stiffens in the low starlight.
I know not how, but shuddering as I slept,
I dreamed a banished angel to me crept:
My feet were nourished on her breasts all night.
Man chisels, sculpts the mountain-sides by hand;
Man cuts granite blocks off by huge machines;
Man breaks the boulders using dynamite;
The remnants are not worth seeing at all!
When Nature weathers mountains and hill-tops,
In slow degrees for years by crumbling stones,
What’s left appears a master-piece of art –
So queer yet wonderful to human eyes!
A flock of sheep are grazing up a rock;
A crowd of people move to see someone;
Is Jesus preaching from the mountain-side?
The weathered stones appear as if alive!
Imagination can pick various shapes;
The mind’s eye thinks of people present, past;
The thinker views the grotesque shapes anew;
Old mountains turn great sculptures unrivaled!
Copyright by Dr John Celes 11-09-2013
I've got you.
You've got me.
And we've got...
Dreams.
I've got you.
You've got me.
And we've got...
Our dreams.
Together we can conquer,
With our dreams.
Together we can make it,
With our dreams.
Together life is better,
With our dreams.
And I've got you.
You know you've got me.
And together...
We've got those dreams.
Oh yes I've got you.
And you've got me.
And we both together will fulfill dreams.
Together we can conquer,
With our dreams.
Together we can make it,
With our dreams.
Together life is better,
With our dreams.
No matter what the weather,
We've got dreams.
Storm winds come blowing...
But no matter what the weather shows,
Together we'll combat it with our dreams.
Storm winds come blowing...
But no matter what the weather shows,
Together we'll combat it with our dreams.
Together we'll combat the storms,
With our dreams.
I've got you.
You've got me.
And we've got...
Dreams.
No matter what the weather shows,
Together we will always know...
Together we'll combat it with our dreams.
Together we'll combat it with our dreams.
O suns and skies and clouds of June,
And flowers of June together,
Ye cannot rival for one hour
October's bright blue weather;
When loud the bumblebee makes haste,
Belated, thriftless vagrant,
And goldenrod is dying fast,
And lanes with grapes are fragrant;
When gentians roll their fingers tight
To save them for the morning,
And chestnuts fall from satin burrs
Without a sound of warning;
When on the ground red apples lie
In piles like jewels shining,
And redder still on old stone walls
Are leaves of woodbine twining;
When all the lovely wayside things
Their white-winged seeds are sowing,
And in the fields still green and fair,
Late aftermaths are growing;
When springs run low, and on the brooks,
In idle golden freighting,
Bright leaves sink noiseless in the hush
Of woods, for winter waiting;
When comrades seek sweet country haunts,
By twos and twos together,
And count like misers, hour by hour,
October's bright blue weather.
O sun and skies and flowers of June,
Count all your boasts together,
Love loveth best of all the year
October's bright blue weather.
★ October's Bright Blue Weather
☆ Poetry by Helen Hunt Jackson
O suns and skies and clouds of June,
And flowers of June together,
Ye cannot rival for one hour
October's bright blue weather;
When loud the bumblebee makes haste,
Belated, thriftless vagrant,
And goldenrod is dying fast,
And lanes with grapes are fragrant;
When gentians roll their fingers tight
To save them for the morning,
And chestnuts fall from satin burrs
Without a sound of warning;
When on the ground red apples lie
In piles like jewels shining,
And redder still on old stone walls
Are leaves of woodbine twining;
When all the lovely wayside things
Their white-winged seeds are sowing,
And in the fields still green and fair,
Late aftermaths are growing;
When springs run low, and on the brooks,
In idle golden freighting,
Bright leaves sink noiseless in the hush
Of woods, for winter waiting;
When comrades seek sweet country haunts,
By twos and twos together,
And count like misers, hour by hour,
October's bright blue weather.
O sun and skies and flowers of June,
Count all your boasts together,
Love love the best of all the year
October's bright blue weather.
▲ Chinese Translation
★ 十月明亮蔚蓝的天气
☆ [美国]  海伦•亨特•杰克逊  (1830 –1885)  诗
☆ [中国] 罗志海 (1954 -)    译
啊，六月太阳、天空、云儿
和六月的鲜花一起
你们不能竞争一小 时
十月明亮蔚蓝的天气
嗡嗡响的大黄蜂匆忙
迟来，无用的流浪汉
黄 花快要死亡
小路巷道，葡萄芬芳
龙胆手指紧紧翻滚
去拯救他们的早晨
栗子从光滑的毛刺上掉下
没有预警，悄无声音
躺在地面上的红苹果
像成堆 的宝石闪闪烁烁
旧石头墙依旧红火
忍冬叶缠绕交错
路边所有可爱的植物
白茸茸种子传播
田间地头依旧美艳绿色
迟发的再生草生势蓬勃
泉水向低 处流，汇成小溪
闲置的黄金货运
亮晃晃的叶子寂静无声沉入水底
树林，等待冬季
战友们寻找甜蜜的国度常来常去
三三两两在一起
守财奴锱铢必较，每时每刻
十月明亮蔚蓝的天气
啊，六月太阳、天空、云儿
加上你所有的引以为傲
爱，爱上全年最好
十月明亮蔚蓝的天气
北京时间2015年3月8日翻译< br>Beijing time on March 8,2015, Translation
And were it for thy profit, to obtain
All sunshine?  No vicissitude of rain?
Think'st thou that thy laborious plough requires
Not winter frosts as well as summer fires?
There must be both: sometimes these hearts of ours
Must have the sweet, the seasonable showers
Of tears; sometimes the frost of chill despair
Makes our desired sunshine seem more fair;
Weathers that most oppose the flesh and blood
Are such as help to make our harvest good.
We may not choose, great God: it is thy task;
We know not what to have, nor how to ask
Is it as plainly in our living shown,
By slant and twist, which way the wind has blown?
Th'imprison'd winds slumber within their caves
Fast bound: the fickle vane, emblem of change,
Wavers no more, long-settling to a point.
All nature nodding seems compos'd: thick steams
From land, from flood up-drawn, dimming the day,
"Like a dark ceiling stand:" slow thro' the air
Gossamer floats, or stretch'd from blade to blade
The wavy net-work whitens all the field.
Push'd by the weightier atmosphere, up springs
The ponderous Mercury, from scale to scale
Mounting, amidst the Torricellian tube.
While high in air, and pois'd upon his wings
Unseen, the soft, enamour'd wood-lark runs
Thro' all his maze of melody; -- the brake
Loud with the black-bird's bolder note resounds.
Sooth'd by the genial warmth, the cawing rook
Anticipates the spring, selects her mate,
Haunts her tall nest-trees, and with sedulous care
Repairs her wicker eyrie, tempest torn.
The plough-man inly smiles to see upturn
His mellow glebe, best pledge of future crop:
With glee the gardener eyes his smoking beds:
E'en pining sickness feels a short relief.
The happy school-boy brings transported forth
His long-forgotten scourge, and giddy gig:
O'er the white paths he whirls the rolling hoop,
Or triumphs in the dusty fields of taw.
Not so the museful sage: -- abroad he walks
Contemplative, if haply he may find
What cause controuls the tempest's rage, or whence
Amidst the savage season winter smiles.
For days, for weeks, prevails the placid calm.
At length some drops prelude a change: the sun
With ray refracted bursts the parting gloom;
When all the chequer'd sky is one bright glare.
Mutters the wind at eve: th' horizon round
With angry aspect scowls: down rush the showers,
And float the delug'd paths, and miry fields.
The sun is annoyed with the earth
that so he is not seen throughout
but aroma of his arrival
spreaded throughout the earth
Air is not humming to  - day
stopped mesmerizing the flowers
so, flowers are sad too
not sympathetic with bees even
to sip her nectar today
to view the piteous scene of earth
sky also weeps  with drizzling tears
an unforeseen silence stirs the nature
making me bore except
to lean and chat with my poetry.
like poetry
life isn't about explanation
it all about the words
that you chosen
same like a clime
you can't change the weather
but you can change
the wind direction
earthzcity,070213
It’s raining ouside – survival weather, saving our lives
but overcast weather makes me feel bad, I need the
sun to feel better; whenever I am down I go outside
and lie in the sun, when it’s rainy like now, there’s
no hope, all falls apart, the negative side of my mind
turns up, and I can’t change it into happy and content
regardless of what I do, say or eat – the only thing that
helps is sunshine, but rainy weather bringing the
water we need, is necessary – so I have to keep my
sadness inside while applauding the good effects
of rain in our lives…
Easy it is to receive a bright sunny day,
To then say what events could have been prevented.
So easy it is when clouds of yesterday have passed,
To admit a limited point of view...
Could have been broadened if more time one had.
And easy it is to make repeated mistakes,
As long as one knows they will be forgiven.
But many are quick and too easy to offend,
When someone is honest with a truth spoken to them.
And deliberately mentioned regardless of the weather.
Fallen leaves come in                                                 That pretty Fall anywhere and                                         Everywhere...                                                        Fallen snows come in                                                  That wonderful Winter anywhere and                                    Everywhere...                                                        All pretty blossoms come in                                           That great Spring anywhere and                                        Everywhere...                                                        All pretty fruits come in                                             That fabulous Summer anywhere and                                     Everywhere...                                                        Four different seasons with                                           Four different outcomes...                                           All seasons produce what we need                                      Just to make our life great and                                       Pretty anytime, anywhere, and everywhere...                           This is the real seasons' weather forecast...                        _________________________________________________ _____________________
The weather has gotten very nasty
And it's causing a lot of heartache.
It's raining dogs and cats!
And tornadoes are leaving just destruction on their wake
The weather conditions are so bad
They're bringing death and making a lot of people sad,
With all the death and disaster they have left just behind
Because of their houses, there's nothing left they can ever find
The severe weather is causing plenty of tornadoes, and floods,
And the wind starts to blow dreadfully, turning the ground below into a chaotic mud.
It's raining dogs and cats!
And tornadoes are leaving just destruction in their wake
Folks might be terrified but they always have a courageous spirit, they are hurting
Right now and in their hearts they are mourning for all they have lost without a warning,
But life continues, some folks will go away, but some come back and start over again,
As life just goes on, rain just stops and the sun will shine again, thru each road and little plain
The weather has gotten very nasty
And it's causing a lot of heartache.
It's raining dogs and cats!
And tornadoes are leaving just destruction on their wake.
A beautiful day
Sun’s shining, birds are singing
God’s in his heaven.
Pouring rain today
A good thing to wash away
The sins of the world.
It’s snowing outside
Little white flakes floating down
Blanketing the world.
Snow falling on me
Anesthetizing my pain
Pristine flakes from sky.
High winds are blowing
Papers swirling down the road
Hold onto your hat.
Very dark tonight
It’s the story of my life
There’s no moon at all.
My dog lay asleep by the window
lost in dreams of drizzle,
I pat her head
and watch the rain descend.
Cold November blows
October forever away,
and here am I, a melancholy warm
sitting with my faithful old friend.
The wind wails
a mournful tune,
a song sung sad
when the sky comes weeping.
The fireplace aglow
holds the heart at home,
as simply contented
I and my old dog, together, lay sleeping.
Dear sister, you have no idea
About  the weather here
The earth is dry
We haven't seen any rain
For the past few years
And hunger is striking.
Looking out through the window
Father is trying to forecast the weather
And he has been saying something
But no one heard what the exact words are
For he's talking to no one, but himself.
Oh! how terrible things are here
The weather is  bad, so bad that
I am beginning to believe what father has said.
'This is not weather, but a curse laid upon us.'
23/03/2004
It was raining
in the kitchen.
“Splish...splash! ”
said my footsteps
enjoying themselves
like never before.
It was like
a swamp.
The butter was swimming
in its blue bowl.
The sugar
had dissolved in its.
The bread was
sodden
and was busy losing
a lot of its breadiness.
Little pieces
of shit
lazily floated from
the cat’s litter.
The sink
had half a sink of rain
in it
as well as last night’s dirty dishes.
The kettle with the lid left off
had filled itself twice.
It had never rained
in the kitchen
...before.
The book left open on page 69
was dying.
The mobile phone
looked like it wasn’t
having an exactly
good time.
The stone
that some kids had thrown
sat on the table
like a king on its throne.
The broken skylight
gathered around it
listening like flunkeys
to everything
the stone
had said.
The birthday cake
lay dead.
The ink
on the letter
wept
copiously
ran
away crying.
Respondez s’il vous plait.
It was raining in the kitchen.
“Damn! ”
we both said
in unison
“Damn! ”
There's an angry rainstorm brewing,
I can feel it in the air;
The pigeons stop their cooing,
to fly out they do not dare.
All the crows have congregated
in the verdant mango tree;
that the seagulls have vacated,
as they fly out to watch the sea.
I sit put inside my alcove,
like a sparrow in her nest;
A ricepearl in a treasure trove,
on a secret singing quest.
And as the rain begins to pelt,
and crash high upon the sea;
I feel my heart begin to melt,
as I sip my cup of tea.
My old white lace curtains billow,
wind-blown sails upon the ships,
Seasprays brine upon my pillow,
blow salty kisses on my lips.
A lightening flash lights up the sky,
like a spotlight in a play;
A thundering roar in prompt reply,
echoes on cue across the bay.
My son climbs into my waiting lap,
His smile keeps me safe and warm;
Under the flannel blanket wrap,
I have my sonshine in the storm!
When outside the icy rain
Comes leaping helter-skelter,
Shall I tie my restive brain
Snugly under shelter?
Shall I make a gentle song
Here in my firelit study,
When outside the winds blow strong
And the lanes are muddy?
With old wine and drowsy meats
Am I to fill my belly?
Shall I glutton here with Keats?
Shall I drink with Shelley?
Tobacco’s pleasant, firelight’s good:
Poetry makes both better.
Clay is wet and so is mud,
Winter rains are wetter.
Yet rest there, Shelley, on the sill,
For though the winds come frorely,
I’m away to the rain-blown hill
And the ghost of Sorley.
The storm rolls over
Tormenting the earth below
Showering relief
Fire in jagged ribbons ripping groundward
With belated drumbeats echoes of past passage
Rushing to horizons obscured from view
Cascading torrents of icy stones that threaten broken bones
With river’d roads rushing past pensive habitants of homes
Until the sun at last breaks through that deep dark grey
That filled many with such fear as fire and brimstone brings
To those possessed of many things
This is what a dark mood brings even on the fairest day.
I love to look at the clouds above
They tell a story, don't you think?
Sometimes they are white and puffy
But can change within a blink
The wind picks up and blows in
Clouds so dark and bold
They almost take your breath away
Unlike the weather channel told
But nevertheless they are interesting
The rain may come pouring down
Get your umbrella ready in case
The weather may change in your town!
Severe storm winds crash
leaving rubble in it's path
devistation hits.
The wattlebirds calling on the flowering gum trees
On a beautiful day in mid Winter of around eighteen degrees
Such beautiful weather for the time of year
Six weeks to September and Spring is drawing near
A pair of magpies with nesting material for their nest nearby
Make a whirring sound with their wings as they fly
Their young will be fully fledsged by early Spring
The wonders of Nature is a marvellous thing
With black, gold and gray feathers one cannot get wrong
The beautiful bird with the ordinary song
The new holland honeyeater searching for insects and nectar their chirpings one can hear
On a beautiful day for July of the year
September and Spring it is not far away
And we ought to feel glad for this beautiful day.
Reader! what soul that laoves a verse can see
The spring return, nor glow like you and me?
Hear the quick birds, and see the landscape fill,
Nor long to utter his melodious will?
This more than ever leaps into the veins,
When spring has been delay'd by winds and rains,
And coming with a burst, comes like a show,
Blue all above, and basking green below,
And all the people culling the sweet prime:
Then issues forth the bee to clutch the thyme,
And the bee poet rushes into rhyme.
For lo! no sooner has the cold withdrawn,
Than the bright elm is tufted on the lawn;
The merry sap has run up in the bowers,
And bursts the windows of the buds in flowers;
With song the bosoms of the birds run o'er,
The cuckoo calls, the swallow's at the door,
And apple-tree at noon with bees alive
Burn with the golden chorus of the hive.
Now all these sweets, these sounds, this vernal blaze,
Is but one joy, express'd a thousand ways:
And honey from the flowers and song from birds
Are from the poet's pen his oeverflowing words.
Ah friends! methinks it were a pleasant sphere,
If, like the trees, we blossom'd every year;
If locks grew thick again, and rosy dyes
Return'd in cheeks, and raciness in eyes,
And all around us, vital to the tips,
The human orchard laugh'd with cherry lips!
Lord! what a burst of merriment and play,
Fair dames, were that! and what a first of May!
So natural is the wish, that bards gone by
Have left it, all, in some immortal sigh!
And yet the winter months were not so well:
Who would like changing, as the seasons fell?
Fade every year, and stare, midst ghastly friends,
With falling hairs, and stuck-out fingers' ends?
Besides, this tale of youth that comes again
Is no more true of apple-trees than men.
The Swedish sage, the Newton of the flow'rs,
Who first found out those worlds of paramours,
Tells us, that every blossom that we see
Boasts in its walls a separate family;
So that a tree is but a sort of stand
That holds those afilial fairies in its hand;
Just as Swift's giant might have held a bevy
Of Lilliputian ladies, or a levee.
It is not her that blooms: it is his race,
Who honour his old arms, and hide his rugged face.
Ye wits and bards, then, pray discern your duty,
And learn the lastingness of human beauty.
Your finest fruit to some two months may reach:
I've known a cheek at forth like a peach.
But see! the weather calls me. Here's a bee
Comes bounding in my room imperiously,
And talking to himself, hastily burns
About mine ear, and so in heat returns.
O little brethren of the fervid soul,
Kissers of flowers, lords of the golden bowl,
I follow to your fields and tusted brooks:
Winter's the time to which the poet looks
For hiving his sweet thoughts, and making honied books.
The night sobbed
Her heart-out - near fully,
That is why the day arises happy.
Joyous as a songbird full of mirth
But see how the blackbird is nesting
In some dark shadows girth.
Gazing through - yellow ringed eyes
Her eye - is like the centre
Of a yew tree berry:
It speaks of a defining, terror
When autumn fruits are falling
The call of winter weather!
Re: HEAT WAVE
Dear Sir, we've had enough.
Do you forget, I think you do, perhaps,
Our temperate position on the maps?
Daily we mourn the collar's swift collapse,
The limp and wrinkled cuff.
Dear Sir, we've got to work.
We cannot all lie idle on the beach,
Or skim, white- winged, the river's limpid reach.
We've got to buy and sell, to talk and teach,
Although we'd like to shirk.
Think of the crowded street,
The roar, the clatter, and the throbbing head
Where shout and clash, and jangle meet and spread,
And thought is irksome and the brain is lead
And asphalt grills the feet.
Now don't get in a huff.
Pity the pain the stifling town endures,
A bracing rain will work a thousand cures.
Believe me, Sir, obediently yours
P.S. We've had enough.
The weather is perfect for running.
I think that I'll go for a jog.
Except I'm a little bit tired,
so maybe I'll just walk the dog.
But he seems too hyper for walking.
He looks kind of hard to control.
So maybe I'll leave him at home,
and go for a leisurely stroll.
But all of my socks are too dirty,
and all of my shoes are untied.
So maybe I'll sit on the front porch.
Or maybe I'll just stay inside.
I see that my kitten is purring,
and wants to curl up on my lap.
It wouldn't be right to prevent her
from getting her afternoon nap.
It's comfortable here on the sofa.
My pillows are cozy and deep.
The weather is perfect for running.
So that's why I'm going to sleep.
The Weather Maker reigns above, creating all weather we speak of,
The One and Only True Creator, from both the poles to the equator,
Over this planet that we call earth, He’s the Only One who can birth,
All the weather that men shall see, upon all the lands and every sea.
God alone hides the day’s light, with ominous clouds dark as night,
And whether it is snow, hail or rain, it is The Lord, Who does ordain,
All earth’s precipitation, as it falls, while, God’s mighty thunder rolls,
With piercing lights from the sky, as His lightning catches every eye.
All the winds blow where they may, whether it is the night or the day,
Winds blowing, as The Maker wills, as His purpose, The Lord fulfills,
God stirring up many angry waves, in an ocean that rants and raves,
Or moving wind on desert sands, creating dust storms on the lands.
Hurricane winds, by Him, are spawn, as their path, by God, is drawn,
With tornados, also cutting their path, from God’s destructive Wrath,
This as the very Finger of God, scores the very ground that we trod,
As The Lord God shows His Power, both day and night, at any hour.
This is The Creator, known by some, showing to all, what is to come,
Upon this earth, created by Him, that has been tainted, by man’s sin,
For soon, He’ll purge from this world, all of the evil, sin has unfurled,
Filling it with eternal joy and mirth, when our God makes a New Earth.
(Copyright ©05/2010)
The weather out is frozen
the weather out be chill
the weather out walks frosty
but here
here
in the house between
the old ancient treble walls
cold makes its feast the
same and more.
In Sydney today it's 20 degrees centigrade
Humidity is 94% and the light at 6: 21pm will fade
Wind blows from the north east, at 17 kilometres per hour
The moon is waxing gibbous and Monday there's a late shower
On Saturday it'll be mostly sunny, temperature 17 degrees max
Thursday, UV's only moderate, these are the facts
Air pressure is 1012 hpascals, no longer measured in millibars
They use hectos instead of kilos, yes I also thought it quite bizarre
On Sunday there'll be morning clouds, which won't linger in afternoon
They'll drift over to Honiara, maybe take part in a monsoon
Waves will arrive every 7 seconds, be careful, they're head-height
And on Friday,05: 53am is the exact time of first light
Well that's all of the weather captured in verse
You'll have to weather it whether for better or worse
(Sydney, Australia - 2008)
The weather vane
It crackled
And the wind
Turned round
A little
Not that
The wind was not
Running though not
A gale.
Yet
It was just restless
A restless Soul
Selling its merchandise.
The weather warming up a bit it's getting warm today
And people for the weekend will be heading for the bay
To do a bit of fishing and relax by the sea
To surf or go skin diving or have a sea side tea.
It's nice to leave suburbia it's nice to get away
If only for the weekend for a brief holiday
To walk along the tide line salt water to your knees
or sit back from the high cliffs and feel the ocean breeze.
A weekend from suburbia to breathe the ocean air
To lay out on the sand dunes on beach reclining chair
A short break from pollution and the humid and noisy street
Down by the country coast line a different sort of heat.
November is upon us and Summer days are nigh
And weather getting warmer the weather glass is high
And not one sign of rain cloud in blue and sunny sky
And myna's song sounds sweeter as Spring goes laughing by.
The traffic will be heavy on the coastal highway
From 4 p m till after dark on evening of friday
As people leave suburbia mum, dad and family
And drive towards coastal country town for weekend by the sea.
I think it's the places I've been
or the people I've known,
that led me to find
I'm not alone.
For the first time down this road
it feels like me at summertime.
The eternal gold light within
ready to glitter, willing to shine.
It's a good life some have the luxury to live
drowning in sad song days,
laughing in a hot breeze, at ease,
by a poolside or under palm trees,
with echos that leave voiceless nobody's behind.
But the world was always a beautifully distorted creature, wasn't it?
We are the lucky stars who had a choice,
to do, or not to sharpen the mind.
Like electric diamonds, a spark for dark silhouettes.
I chose to fall, I loved to die,
walking under telephone wires,
pale yellow sun in the sky.
It's so gorgeous to pretend we are all that matters
dancing in your psychedelic souls glow,
waiting for the days to end.
A universal emptiness that has a dream to mend.
T-shirt weather, happiness is better
It will be raining all Day
with short intervals of showers
you may not see the sun
for many many hours
The sun it does seem to be struggling through the dark gray clouds for to shine
And though rain is in the weather forecast the day it is holding out fine
'Tis the typical sort of weather one expects of Victoria's Fall
Threatening to rain very often though on the dry side overall
A flock of silver gulls for food are begging by the forseshore on the pavement of the street
Some of them with part of one or their two legs missing and some others with very sore feet
To infections in their feet they must be quite vulnerable their handicaps with them through their short lives remain
Their crippled feet must feel painful pity for them in their pain
Returning once more to the weather the sun out and shining again
The weather forecaster may have it wrong today 'tis not likely to rain
Nature herself she is fascinating such insights from her we do gain
Yet we know so little about her as her ways as a mystery to us does remain
The scientists are learning from her and artists and writers she does inspire
And she always does fill me with wonder and her I can only admire.
The first dark day of summer came sooner than I had hoped,
I took one look at it and just looked back at me
'You're a total wreck' it said
'Wearing a jacket in this overheated hell hole'
'You turned me on in winter' I replied
I walked away from it soon after
'Haven't I gone blind yet I wonder' aloud
but I don't want to see out of my eyes anymore...
Just staring Inside my own soul
Seeing how terrified I've become
Now I've got this sick feeling inside
Whenever it rains, and when it doesn't
The perfect end to a perfect life
But, with nothing on the horizon
I forget about what's above
and All I can think about is what I'm under,
The only thing that ever makes any more sense
missing
forgetting
little poems
a lot
at
present
time deep fried
bed dead tired
short circuited
cause flu renders effect
health is most inclement
in limbo doldrums present
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
Louring heavy skies
Threaten rain.
We must hurry home
Yet again.
Passing scurry-crabs
Seeking caves,
Fleeing to avoid
Powerful waves.
Winging back to roost,
Flurried gulls
Battle to reach cliffs
As it comes.
Harbouring, small boats
Race the storm.
Hoping to be safe
'Til the dawn
Changing fickle wind
Turns about
Then proceeds to die,
And fizzles out.!
Weather and woman
Same and unchanged.
It is your topics
My dear poet
Charles Bukowski.
And I am here
Not so serious reader
On your line
Giving suggestions
Either to go with
The Govt or leave
The land.
O Charles Bukowski,
I have nothing to write
You must admit
And I have to
Fetch the rain
That is running
Through me
Day and night.
as i look out the window
i see the sun rise
before my very eyes
i feel its warmth & power upon my face
as i look out the window
i see the rain fall
before my very eyes
i feel its cool calming effect on my soul
as i look out the window
i see the snow fall
before my very eyes
i feel that cold bitterness on my skin
as i look out the window
i see the trees sway
before my very eyes
i feel the love it offers surround me
as i look out the window
i relise that
weather be good, weather be bad
i'm alive
The sun is out but rain’s within
The future looks quite grey
I’ve been informed because of sin
There must be change today
What can I do to make things well?
Outside the weather’s fine
But deep inside I feel like hell
With shivers down my spine
My Christian neighbours seem to cope
I’ve thought it rather odd
But change for me I’ve little hope
Without some help from God
I’m dismal here depressing there
Miserable day and night
There’s little chance that I may share
Of Heaven’s great delight
In life I never learnt to pray
For such I wasn’t keen
To God I don’t know what to say
To church I’ve never been
They say I only need to kneel
Believe that Christ is true
Believe His birth and death were real
And seek His birth anew
Is this the change I’ve heard about?
Is this what must be done?
Even when still I’m plagued with doubt
About God’s risen Son
Is it still right for me to bow?
To pray on bended knee
Asking for change to come right now
For God to set me free
Changing
Like wind that blows
Uncharted in its course
It is never predictable
Like girls.
There used to be winters before the weather became entertainment.
There was frost, rain, flooding and landslide one had to accept as norm,
unless it was of a disastrous dimension.1948 was so cold birds fell
from the sky and we had steal coal at the depot – a hole in the fence not
repaired before spring- the worker knew but looked away, this was a time
of social cohesion, we´re equally poor and recovering from a war
Snow in Ohio, and we see cars skidding on icy roads, what a distraction
from our sheltered life, nature actually exists and we better show respect
if not nature will turn against us and shake us into obeisance.
The weather girl
Is a priceless pearl.
Chic and smart,
She has the art
Of making weather
Altogether—
However bloody—
A pleasure to study.
To truly know is to endure raw experiences
to sensitize each momentous moments agonies
to time absorb learn through testing years
residue body mind tested in furnace adversities
impurities burned off in flowing molten streams
finest steal heated beaten into perfection blades
what soul sacrifice can be reborn in phoenix flames?
what soul endure fall not in raging wave ocean agonies?
what soul can weather master enlightenment paths?
Copyright © Terence George Craddock
THERE is a world of being
We range from pole to pole,
Through seasons of the spirit
And weather of the soul.
It has its new-born Aprils,
With gladness in the air,
Its golden Junes of rapture,
Its winters of despair.
And in its tranquil autumns
We halt to re-enforce
Our tattered scarlet pennons
With valor and resource.
From undiscovered regions
Only the angels know,
Great winds of aspiration
Perpetually blow,
To free the sap of impulse
From torpor of distrust,
And into flowers of joyance
Quicken the sentient dust.
From nowhere of a sudden
Loom sudden clouds of fault,
With thunders of oppression
And lightnings of revolt.
With hush of apprehension
And quaking of the heart,
There breed the storms of anger,
And floods of sorrow start.
And there shall fall,—how gently!—
To make them fertile yet,
The rain of absolution
On acres of regret.
Till snows of mercy cover
The dream that shall come true,
When time makes all things wondrous,
And life makes all things new.
I
The August day you wake to takes you by surprise.
Its bitterness. Black sullen clouds. Brackish downpour.
A drift-net of wetness enmeshes the rented cottage,
towels and children’s swimwear sodden on the line.
Dry-gulleted drains gulp down neat rain.
Drops bounce from a leaking gutter with hard,
uncompromising slaps: and, like resignation
in the face of death, you contemplate winter
with something close to tenderness, the sprint
from fuel shed to back door, the leisurely
ascent of peat smoke, even the suburban haze
of boiler flues when thermostats are set.
You warm to those thoughts as you sit there,
brainstorming ways to keep the family amused,
plans abandoned for barefoot games on dry sand.
Handcraft shops? Slot-machine arcades? Hotel grills?
In truth - manipulating toast crumbs backwards,
forwards at the unsteady table’s edge - you’d prefer
to return to your bed as if with some mild
ailment, pampered by duvet, whiskey, cloves.
II
Let it rain.
Let the clouds discharge their contents like reserve tanks.
Let the worms burrow their way to the topsoil
from whatever dank Sargasso they were spawned in.
Let dampness rot the coffin-boards of the summer house.
Let the shrubs lose their foothold in the wind,
the nettles lose their edge, the drenched rat
with slicked-back hair scuttle to its sewage pipe.
Let the tropical expanses of the rhubarb leaves
serve as an artificial pond, a reservoir.
Let the downpour’s impact on the toolshed be akin
to the dull applause on an archive recording of a love duet.
Let the bricklayers at the building site wrap
pathetic sheets of polythene around doomed foundations.
Let the limb ripped from the tree’s socket
hover fleetingly in the air, an olive branch.
Let a rainbow’s fantail unfurl like a bird of paradise.
Let a covenant be sealed, its wording watertight.
Let the floods recede.
Let there be light.
III after Giacomo Leopardi
The storm runs out of wind; nature, which
abhors a silence, fills the vacancy with birdsong.
Deserting the airless, low-ceilinged coop,
the hen repeats herself ad infinitum. Replenished
like the rain-barrels, hearts grow sanguine.
Hammering resumes. Humming. Gossip. Croons.
Sun strides down lanes that grass has repossessed,
takes a shine to the brasses at the hotel where,
by the window she thrust open, the chambermaid
is marvelling at the cleansed freshness, calm.
Balm of mind and body. Will we ever feel
more reconciled to life than now, ever
know a moment more conducive to new hopes,
eager beginnings, auspicious starts?
How easily pleased we are. Rescind
the threat of torment for the briefest
second and we blot out dark nights of the soul
when lightning flashes fanned by wind
ignited fire and brimstone visions.
Sorrow is perennial; happiness, a rare
bloom, perfumes the air - so that we breathe
with the ease of a camphor-scented chest
from which congestion has just lifted.
Lack of woe equates with rapture then,
though not till death will pain take full leave
of our senses, grant us permanent relief.
Once I dipt into the future far as human eye could see,
And I saw the Chief Forecaster, dead as any one can be--
Dead and damned and shut in Hades as a liar from his birth,
With a record of unreason seldome paralleled on earth.
While I looked he reared him solemnly, that incandescent youth,
From the coals that he'd preferred to the advantages of truth.
He cast his eyes about him and above him; then he wrote
On a slab of thin asbestos what I venture here to quote--
For I read it in the rose-light of the everlasting glow:
'Cloudy; variable winds, with local showers; cooler; snow.'
All can a lesson learn from weather
The way cryptic tongues it can weather,
And still never agree
To change but a degree,
Nonchalant still remain
If or not it would rain,
And not a scruffy ruffled feather!
__________________________________________
Tongue-in-cheek | 06.01.05 |
Dot a dot dot dot a dot dot
Spotting the windowpane.
Spack a spack speck flick a flack fleck
Freckling the windowpane.
A spatter a scatter a wet cat a clatter
A splatter a rumble outside.
Umbrella umbrella umbrella umbrella
Bumbershoot barrel of rain.
Slosh a galosh slosh a galosh
Slither and slather a glide
A puddle a jump a puddle a jump
A puddle a jump puddle splosh
A juddle a pump a luddle a dump
A pudmuddle jump in and slide!
Today the sun shines,
then some clouds,
it cannot always be the same.
What I don't like about the weather
is we the people aren't allowed
to have some input - what a shame!
No consultation, consideration,
just titillation, exasperation,
and consternation, then desperation.
As thunder follows lightning strikes
I am not asked, it's just not done,
and all the while these climate spikes
can get you down or may  be fun.
And when the Gods want you to pay
they punish you - they even may
condemn you if you're innocent:
The honest soul needs to repent.
And that reminds me, I hear thunder
the weather's better here -Down Under.
The open window before me,
I look through and see,
The cloudy sky grey,
No winds today
It is a windy day.
The water's white with spray.
And pretty soon, if this keeps up,
The world will blow away.
There is one thing we can’t avoid
And that, my friend, is weather
It is usually unpredictable
As the clouds began to gather
Or perhaps a puff of wind picks up
And those clouds will blow away
In summer the sun is warm and nice
And we hope that it will stay
But in the winter it’s so different
The clouds help us stay warm
They hover above protectively
Or is there a chance of a storm?
It is really very complicated
That’s why we have those who know
What it all means when suddenly
The winds begin to blow
Rain pours down and it floods
The wind brings a tornado
Hurricane’s can be devastating
So troubling, don’t you think so?
And the snow, oh let me tell you
It can cripple a city over night
It stops everything in its tracks
Blanketing what ever is in sight
The experts spend lots of time
With fancy equipment and such
But since we can’t change a thing
I don’t worry about it too much!
Weather stops me
running my nerves.
I'll rather sleep
under the leafy
tree of Amaltas.
The scorching heat
of the summer days
and the penetrating
sunlight will be gone,
with its keen rays.
The breeze will cool
my restless mind
and the shade may
balm my fever
leaving my grief behind.
According to a place and time in the world
Depending upon the four sweasons of the year
Weather is described in many ways
It can be
fair
good
clear
fine
sunny
d ry
hot
bad
terrible
horrible
merci less
stormy
foul
favorable
breezy
calm
cool
cloudy
windy
rainy
snowy
cold
unseasonable
unpredi ctable
intolerable
Showers alternate with sunshine
in April weather
People's emotion badly
affected by weather
Some are happy and satisfied
Others are sad and moody
Yet nobody can ever
control weather.
Today it's raining cats and dogs,
Tomorrow it might be raining frogs.
If I should drink some syrup of figs,
perhaps tomorrow it will rain some pigs.
Last week we had lots and lots of snow,
My snow-mans joined the Navy you know.
Soon it will be time for April showers,
Will this help to paint the flowers.
Now I'll put on my sou'-wester,
And catch a boat that's going to Chester.
I might even make a telephone call,
To ask the sun to shine on us all.
A man I know wants to hire a boat,
Will this help him to keep afloat.
One of these days very very soon,
I'll catch a bus that's going to the moon.
In Burma I'm told they get monsoons,
They eat curried rice with wooden spoons.
There was also a man in China town,
That built his house upside down.
Now this poem is not a weather report,
And if it rains tomorrow, It's not my fault.
The weather reports
there will be
humans
here
here
&
here.
Long may
we reign
the storm clouds
laugh & bellow
peeing down
like Gods
relieving
themselves
on the humans
far below
scurrying like ants
for cover...cover!
whether the weather
is predictable or not
weather reports are
[after reading sandra maitryes; a passing cyclone]
Severe storms, earthquakes and the like
Caused by Tesla technology aka HAARP
Perpetrated by America’s “Fourth Reich”
While politicos, networks n’ pundits carp
(Wake up…inform yourself, then push for change)
From murky
overcast sky
rife with heavily
laden cold
comes out of nowhere
brightness.
The warm sun's face
pushes holes
through
to reveal cornflower blue
circles of bloom,
bouqueting
the day
Smiles begin
undoing furrowed brows
and start
breaking frowns in two,
increasingly.
From nowhere folk want
to hello
and tension
shows a release.
Murky weather moods
have to go.
The leaves are blowing away
Up, up, and away they go.
Swish, swoosh, they go.
Like a dancing ballerina
Up, up and away they go
Way up , in the sky.
The trees standing there,
Their branches all bare.
The wind whistling throughout empty branches,
The trees look scary, swish, swoosh,
The wind is getting louder,
Throughout the trees it howls
The trees are blowing
From side to side
Like someone dancing swiftly,
The clouds in the sky are moving quietly
Is the weather ever going to change,
What weather it is today
Whether the weather be fine
Or whether the weather be not,
Whether the weather be cold
Or whether the weather be hot,
We'll weather the weather
Whatever the weather,
Whether we like it or not.
I, not
knowing then
that you
would be
my
now
walked by your house
for years
before the years
brought us together
as if
our paths
were blown
together
by the weather
chasing after
your wind-snatched hat
bring it back
tamed in my hand
to be tamed
in turn
by your smile
& the touch of your hand
as I give it
reluctantly
back
unwilling
to let go
of your fingertips
our laughter
lost in a flock
of leaves
throwing themselves
against our bodies
and Time
(that took its time)
seemed now
in a hurry.
We now
forever
comfortable
with this intimacy
your breath
stroking my face with
its thank you.
All as if
weather & leaves
had conspired
to bring us
together
our voices
naked with desire
our footsteps
& shadows
so soon
mingling
into one.
Crisp Winter, final season of the year,
Comes suddenly when awesome Autumn's past
The frost makes Winter mornings bright and clear,
But fosters Winter's biting icey blasts.
But Winter's winsomeness is also there,
The snow which hides the scars of furrowed ground,
The frost that sparkles on the hedgerows bare,
The snow that muffles harsh intrusive sound.
Ah! Winter, time of joy and peace and cheer,
Of carols chant and chimes of Christmas Bells,
The promise of 'The love that casts out fear',
The pleasure of sweet spicey Yuletide smells.
Remind us after Winter comes the Spring
When all things bright and beautiful will sing!
(John Knight - September 2009) .
Is Winter your favourite Season?  If it is please post a comment saying why. In the UK we have many many parties and presents and holidays celebrating Christmas and New Year, This is to compensate for many cold and drizzly days. Despite Global Warming we stll get some snow in the North and especially Scotland where we have popular Ski Resorts. Winter in the Northern USA and Canada and Scandinavia and Russia is awesome and a great opportunity for Winter Sports and Apre-ski! People whose Birthday is on Christmas Day (DECEMBER 25)   are doubly blessed because they are allowed a separate celebration on JUNE 25 in the following year.  I have used capital letters for the Seasons in this poem because I think they are worth it. It is no longer de rigeur in the UK.  John Knight.
My face falls into my hands,
can't cope any more.
Down the drain went all my plans,
put them in the bottom drawer.
This all might sound hardcore,
but my plan I will not ignore.
I'm gonna pull myself together,
I can conquer any weather.
My plan I dug out again,
going to use my brain.
I am not quite slain,
I will not hang my head in shame.
Any plan is a good plan,
you just got to stick to it.
Hold your head up be a man,
what ever you do don't quit.
Night falls, so gently, from the darkening sky,
soft calling us to leave all that the day
has shone upon; from universal light
to turn to homely private lamp, and seek
what evening's quiet brings our close-knit souls.
Then, love, as midnight calls us to our rest,
lay down the things of day, and mount the stair
to that so private chamber where our love
may seek the oneness in our otherness,
enjoy distinction in our single sight;
put out the light, lay down the he and she
to seek the god and goddess of sweet night.
Thus is the soul to God, and God to soul;
in loving dark unknowing, love known whole.
love never grows old
like vintage wine
it acquires a taste,
richness and smoothness
that swirls on the stage
of a connoisseur's
discerning tongue
to lift the joy of his heart
as the days go by
only those with it know why
in the heartfelt smile
of Charles, Camilla
love shines bright as
the fresh spring foliage,
a sparkling rage over
the gnarled weather beaten
branches and twigs
every bloom and leaf
is a renewal of hope
that seeps through every
royal vein today
now in charles' arms
lingers the charms
of spring that slowly
surely makes itself felt
after a frostbiting blizzard
a refreshing rose
greets the spring wind
twists gently to and fro
in a nuptial dance
to herald a new season
yesterday was deception,
a withered patch
taken over by snow
two persons left in the cold
living out other people's dreams
today a world comes true
for Charles and Camilla to
share their real selves
feeling with the world
the snow that slowly melts,
gives way to the beauty below -
a man and woman on a piece
of ground satiated with
their love for each other
a long cherished passion
that would see spring
spring into a riotious ring
of well wishes and joy
the rose that trails
the spring wind to fall
on Charles' arms today
god's gift after a trailblazing storm
I wrote this blessing to read at my Granddaughter Rachel's Wedding. I read it just as we sat down for the Wedding Breakfast.
We stand before God to bless David and Rachel on their Wedding Day
May God - by whose will creation had its being
Bless you real good in your union together
May Christ seal your marriage with the seal of His love
May the Holy Spirit guide you in joy and peace.
We give thanks to God the Father who will bless you
To God the Son who rejoices - with us - in your spiritual union
To God the Holy Spirit - who will indwell you forever
Father - we thank you for your provision in all things
We thank you for this meal - to celebrate the marriage
Of David and Rachel - and their commitment
To each other and to your service.
We ask you to bless this meal - and
Our fellowship together - on this
Very very special occasion.
In Christ's Name............................... AMEN.
(John Knight - Colchester UK - March 2010)
I. The husband's.
She's not a faultless woman; no!
She's not an angel in disguise:
She has her rivals here below:
She's not an unexampled prize:
She does not always see the point
Of little jests her husband makes:
And, when the world is out of joint,
She makes a hundred small mistakes:
She's not a miracle of tact:
Her temper's not the best I know:
She's got her little faults in fact,
Although I never tell her so.
But this, my wife, is why I hold you
As good a wife as ever stepped,
And why I meant it when I told you
How cordially our feast I kept:
You've lived with me these fifty years,
And all the time you loved me dearly:
I may have given you cause for tears:
I may have acted rather queerly.
I ceased to love you long ago:
I loved another for a season:
As time went on I came to know
Your worth, my wife: and saw the reason
Why such a wife as you have been
Is more than worth the world beside;
You loved me all the time, my Queen;
You couldn't help it if you tried.
You loved me as I once loved you,
As each loved each beside the altar:
And whatsoever I might do,
Your loyal heart could never falter.
And, if you sometimes fail me, sweetest,
And don't appreciate me, dear,
No matter: such defects are meetest
For poor humanity, I fear.
And all's forgiven, all's forgot,
On this our golden wedding day;
For, see! she loves me: does she not?
So let the world e'en go its way.
I'm old and nearly useless now,
Each day a greater weakling proves me:
There's compensation anyhow:
I still possess a wife that loves me.
2. The wife's.
Dear worthy husband! good old man!
Fit hero of a golden marriage:
I'll show towards you, if I can,
And absolutely wifely carriage.
The months or years which your career
May still comprise before you perish,
Shall serve to prove that I, my dear,
Can honour, and obey, and cherish.
Till death us part, as soon he must,
(And you, my dear, should shew the way)
I hope you'll always find me just
The same as on our wedding day.
I never loved you, dearest: never!
Let that be clearly understood:
I thought you good, and rather clever,
And found you really rather good.
And, what was more, I loved another,
But couldn't get him: well, but, then
You're just as bad, my erring brother,
You most impeccable of men:--
Except for this: my love was married
Some weeks before I married you:
While you, my amorous dawdler, tarried
Till we'd been wed a year or two.
You loved me at our wedding: I
Loved some one else: and after that
I never cast a loving eye
On others: you -- well, tit for tat!
But after all I made you cheerful:
Your whims I've humoured: saw the point
Of all your jokes: grew duly tearful,
When you were sad, yet chose the joint
You liked the best of all for dinner,
And soothed you in your hours of woe:
Although a miserable sinner,
I am a good wife, as wives go.
I bore with you and took your side,
And kept my temper all the time:
I never flirted; never cried,
No ranked it as a heinous crime,
When you preferred another lady,
Or used improper words to me,
Or told a story more than shady,
Or snored and snorted after tea,
Or otherwise gave proofs of being
A dull and rather vain old man:
I still succeeded in agreeing
With all you said, (the safest plan),
Yet always strove my point to carry,
And make you do as I desired:
I'm glad my people made me marry!
They hit on just what I required.
Had love been wanted - well, I couldn't
Have given what I'd not to give;
Or had a genius asked me! wouldn't
The man have suffered? now, we live
Among our estimable neighbours
A decent and decorous life:
I've earned by my protracted labours
The title of a model wife.
But when beneath the turf you're sleeping,
And I'm sitting here in black,
Engaged, as they'll suppose, in weeping,
I shall not wish to have you back.
3. The Vicar's.
A good old couple! kind and wise!
And oh! what love for one another!
They've won, those two, life's highest prize,
Oh! let us copy them, my brother.
‘A Jinxed wedding ring’
A gold wedding ring with diamonds two
A hundred years ago was bought new
He went down a mine, a hole to blow
Something went wrong, what? We’ll never know
She kept the ring on her wedding finger
Cos for his return, she did linger
She died all alone in a paupers bed
Wear this on your wedding day to the nurse she said
The nurse wore it with pride
Seeing the old lady by her side
Next day her husband went off to war
Never to be seen any more
She waited for him and happy news
A life of solitude was what she choose
Constantly waiting forever forlorn
Her wedding ring forever worn
The nurse gave it to her daughter
Whose husband also went of to the slaughter
She wondered what It was all for
Another widow, another product of war
The ring was passed down to her son
Who gave it to his chosen one
But, shortly after the lovers pact
They were both victims of a terrorist act
Once something new the ring of gold
Was handed down as the something old
There’s no use for you to get worried
The jinxed ring is now buried
Never to produce another loner
Interred with it’s last owner
Another gold ring with diamonds two
My dear! ! !  Will be bought just for you
Michael Micmac Mccrory
Why have such scores of lovely, gifted girls
Married impossible men?
Simple self-sacrifice may be ruled out,
And missionary endeavour, nine times out of ten.
Repeat 'impossible men': not merely rustic,
Foul-tempered or depraved
(Dramatic foils chosen to show the world
How well women behave, and always have behaved).
Impossible men: idle, illiterate,
Self-pitying, dirty, sly,
For whose appearance even in City parks
Excuses must be made to casual passers-by.
Has God's supply of tolerable husbands
Fallen, in fact, so low?
Or do I always over-value woman
At the expense of man?
Do I?
It might be so.
If hours be years the twain are blest,
For now they solace swift desire
By bonds of every bond the best,
If hours be years. The twain are blest
Do eastern stars slope never west,
Nor pallid ashes follow fire:
If hours be years the twain are blest,
For now they solace swift desire.
Unlike the days gone by
When the veil covered the eyes,
And the bride couldn’t even catch
A glimpse of one she was getting married.
My niece stepped out with parted lips,
Radiant, swaying to the beat with her hips.
It was the traditional ladies sangeet,
All the naughty songs were played to tease.
The boy was there with his friends,
A formal invitation had been sent.
There was warmth and bonhomie,
Both young and old were acting naughty.
Men too danced with abandon and energy
I too longed to join in the revelry
Come on dear, what… he said with a start,
Let’s too dance, I feel young at heart.
Disgruntled, 'you know I have two left feet',
Let me lead,  and you move with the beat'.
'Mam, that's what I have done all my life,
From the day i took you for my wife...'
Ladies sangeet is a musical evening, a day before the traditional north indian wedding ceremony.
God with honour hang your head,
Groom, and grace you, bride, your bed
With lissome scions, sweet scions,
Out of hallowed bodies bred.
Each be other’s comfort kind:
Déep, déeper than divined,
Divine charity, dear charity,
Fast you ever, fast bind.
Then let the March tread our ears:
I to him turn with tears
Who to wedlock, his wonder wedlock,
Déals tríumph and immortal years.
The time has not come before
And this is new.
The light is opening for the day
An ingénue displaying her bosom
To man’s face-
I remember when
I was young in following her.
Her tassels feeling through the trees
And drinking roots,
She laughed even while
Alone;
Giggling,
She rode her bicycle across campus.
I staid up all night and prayed for her.
When tired, she slept
In the shade of a house-
Eyes half closed. I came to her,
She yawned and turned me away.
She said she loved me
Only when she was drunk,
And it was yet that time-
So long ago, yesterday....
Then early this morning she came to me
And offered me the quaff
Of lips.
Dripping nectar on the limbs,
She said, “Never before now, old man, ”
As they lowered me in the grave,
Her light budded
A valleyide of rubrum,
A wedding at my funeral.
Clash your cymbals, maids, to--day.
Chaunt the praise of Cynthia.
You, her virgins, yokeless, free,
Young Time's choice, his brides--to--be.
Nymphs in white, who hand in hand
Next to her high altar stand,
Take your timbrels, strike your strings;
Tune them to Love's clamourings.
Heralds be of her your fairest,
Her of rarities the rarest.
Instant all her laud rehearse,
Idol of your universe;
And thus armed stand forth and say,
``All is nought but Cynthia.''
Clash your cymbals. Beat your drums.
Cynthia in her glory comes,
High with him whose duty is
Her to lead to a new bliss.
Ah, what fortune his to be
Angel of her ecstasy!
Red with roses Love's path lies,
Rich in rainbows of surprise.
They that tread it wiser are
Than the wise kings with their star,
Eve and morn who went pursuing
Eve's old hopes to Time's undoing,
Robbing Time of his vain wrath.
Run to Love; take all he hath,
Idle maids! Nay, shout and sing,
In Love's praise new chorusing,
Stintless this thrice happy day.
Shout aloud for Cynthia!
wedding
is not
Make you...
Wedding is
Fun for hevan...
Heaven is
Wedding...
Life is
Boor and
Cry too
Fighting...
oh...
god...
what is
this..?
Come up the broad river, the Thames, my Dane,
My Dane with the beautiful eyes!
Thousands and thousands await thee full fain,
And talk of the wind and the skies.
Fear not from folk and from country to part,
O, I swear it is wisely done:
For (I said) I will bear me by thee, sweetheart,
As becometh my father's son.
Great London was shouting as I went down.
'She is worthy,' I said, 'of this;
What shall I give who have promised a crown?
O, first I will give her a kiss.'
So I kissed her and brought her, my Dane, my Dane,
Through the waving wonderful crowd:
Thousands and thousands, they shouted amain,
Like mighty thunders and loud.
And they said, 'He is young, the lad we love,
The heir of the Isles is young:
How we deem of his mother, and one gone above,
Can neither be said nor sung.
He brings us a pledge—he will do his part
With the best of his race and name;'—
And I will, for I look to live, sweetheart,
As may suit with my mother's fame.
Everyone knew we were heading for snow.
Lowering banks of menacing clouds trying
To threaten cold wedding guests told us so.
You and I cuddled close. I was crying.
After a night of passionate rapture
You would be gone. Yet these moments were ours.
My body, heart, mind and soul you captured,
Snowbound, we then bound ourselves to love's vows.
Your presence has stayed, 'tho war took your life.
It shines in your son, and comforts your wife.
Dedicated to all war widows.
Beauty brightens the wedding day
with purity of conduct at bay,
And innocence lies dormant now
marked by uncertainty on the brow.
A wedding, like a bell doth ring,
Attached to the heart with a string,
And ecstasy, dawning the eyes,
Reflects the marvel of the skies.
The vows taken on a wedding day by far,
like the sanctity of life and character are,
And the animation in the eyes more bright
than the moonlight on a tranquil night.
She opened her eyes and dawn
Entered her mind,  falling
Into her heart it sparkled
With rose-petal joy, imparting
A light to her thoughts.  Today
She was to be wed, shaky
She rose and looked around
At the brightening room proudly.
Wedding gown hung dreamily
And appeared very unreal.
Cream lace, studded with roses
And pearls, it shone, imposing
A tender glow to her soul.
This day she would be wholly
His, and the image gave blush
To her cheeks, - then a crushing
Thought filled her with painful
Foreboding - - - he would again
Be away  to  war  before
The day was done.  With awful
Blight on wedded bliss, fear crept
Over her heart,  and she wept.
Make my funeral happy when my life as gone
Dress in rainbow colours nothing dark and drab
Smile though your hearts are aching
Send me off with a King Cole song
My darling wife all thru my life my kids and theirs
I love you all, give a toast have a dance and really stand up tall
Shed a tear of course but finish off, with a grin
Turn this into a happy day God approves it ain’t no sin
Bring on the clowns and dancers, cakes and fun
Open all the doors and fill the place with sun
Fill your hearts with joy in knowing I’m dressed in white and
Dancing in the clouds and see, my quickstep makes it rain
I promise to you all I will rest in peace if after this day
You will live every day in happiness and pursue your dreams of joy
Then if you do I assure you they will all come true...........
God bless you's all
A Golden Wedding had to be
A celebration to remember.
Dancing through the years with thee
Steps were sure ~ kisses tender.
Sparkling  words of love to share
Brimming over with such kindness.
Satins and lace, and beauty of face,
But glamour is now far behind us.
Does love still linger, can it be true
We will celebrate in heaven?
Death us may part, but take my heart
And there will be - A Diamond Wedding.
By the side of the brook, where the willow is waving
Why sits the wan Youth, in his wedding-suit gay!
Now sighing so deeply, now frantickly raving
Beneath the pale light of the moon's sickly ray.
Now he starts, all aghast, and with horror's wild gesture,
Cries, "AGNES is coming, I know her white vesture!
"See! see! how she beckons me on to the willow,
"Where, on the cold turf, she has made our rude pillow.
"Sweet girl ! yes I know thee; thy cheek's living roses
"Are chang'd and grown pale, with the touch of despair:
"And thy bosom no longer the lily discloses--
"For thorns, my poor AGNES, are now planted there!
"Thy blue, starry Eyes! are all dimm'd by dark sorrow;
"No more from thy lip, can the flow'r fragrance borrow;
"For cold does it seem, like the pale light of morning,
"And thou smil'st, as in sadness, thy fond lover, scorning!
"From the red scene of slaughter thy Edmund returning,
"Has dress'd himself gayly, with May-blooming flow'rs;
"His bosom, dear AGNES! still faithfully burning,
"While, madly impatient, his eyes beam in show'rs!
"O ! many a time have I thought of thy beauty--
"When cannons, loud roaring, taught Valour its duty;
"And many a time, have I sigh'd to behold thee--
"When the sulphur of War, in its cloudy mist roll'd me!
"At the still hour of morn, when the Camp was reposing,
"I wander'd alone on the wide dewy plain:
"And when the gold curtains of Ev'ning were closing,
"I watch'd the long shadows steal over the Main!
"Across the wild Ocean, half frantic they bore me,
"Unheeding my groans, from Thee, AGNES, they tore me;
"But, though my poor heart might have bled in the battle,
"Thy name should have echoed, amidst the loud rattle!
"When I gaz'd on the field of the dead and the dying--
"O AGNES! my fancy still wander'd to Thee!
"When around, my brave Comrades in anguish were lying,
"I long'd on the death-bed of Valour to be.
"For, sever'd from THEE, my SWEET GIRL, the loud thunder
"Which tore the soft fetters of fondness asunder--
"Had only one kindness, in mercy to shew me,
"To bid me die bravely , that thou, Love, may'st know me!
His arms now are folded, he bows as in sorrow,
His tears trickle fast, down his wedding-suit gay;
"My AGNES will bless me," he murmurs, "to-morrow,
"As fresh as the breezes that welcome the day !"
Poor Youth! know thy AGNES, so lovely and blooming,
Stern Death has embrac'd, all her beauties entombing!
And, pale as her shroud in the grave she reposes,
Her bosom of snow, all besprinkled with Roses!
Her Cottage is now in the dark dell decaying,
And shatter'd the casements, and clos'd is the door,
And the nettle now waves, where the wild KID is playing,
And the neat little garden with weeds is grown o'er!
The Owl builds its nest in the thatch, and there, shrieking,
(A place all deserted and lonely bespeaking)
Salutes the night traveller, wandering near it,
And makes his faint heart, sicken sadly to hear it.
Then Youth, for thy habit, henceforth, thou should'st borrow
The Raven's dark colour, and mourn for thy dear:
Thy AGNES for thee, would have cherish'd her Sorrow,
And drest her pale cheek with a lingering tear:
For, soon as thy steps to the Battle departed,
She droop'd, and poor Maiden ! she died, broken hearted
And the turf that is bound with fresh garlands of roses,
Is now the cold bed, where her sorrow reposes!
The gay and the giddy may revel in pleasure,--
May think themselves happy, their short summer-day;
May gaze, with fond transport, on fortune's rich treasure,
And, carelessly sporting,--drive sorrow away:
But the bosom, where feeling and truth are united--
From folly's bright tinsel will turn, undelighted--
And find, at the grave where thy AGNES is sleeping,
That the proudest of hours, is the lone hour of weeping!
The Youth now approach'd the long branch of the willow,
And stripping its leaves, on the turf threw them round.
"Here, here, my sweet AGNES! I make my last pillow,
"My bed of long slumber, shall be the cold ground!
"The Sun, when it rises above thy low dwelling,
"Shall gild the tall Spire, where my death-toll is knelling.
"And when the next twilight its soft tears is shedding,
"At thy Grave shall the Villagers--witness our WEDDING!
Now over the Hills he beheld a group coming,
Their arms glitter'd bright, as the Sun slowly rose;
He heard them their purposes, far distant, humming,
And welcom'd the moment, that ended his woes!--
And now the fierce Comrade, unfeeling, espies him,
He darts thro' the thicket, in hopes to surprize him;
But EDMUND, of Valour the dauntless defender,
Now smiles , while his CORPORAL bids him--"SURRENDER!"
Soon, prov'd a DESERTER, Stern Justice prevailing,
HE DIED! and his Spirit to AGNES is fled:--
The breeze, on the mountain's tall summit now sailing
Fans lightly the dew-drops, that spangle their bed!
The Villagers, thronging around, scatter roses,
The grey wing of Evening the western sky closes,--
And Night's sable pall, o'er the landscape extending,
Is the mourning of Nature! the SOLEMN SCENE ENDING.
This day, of all our days, has done
The worst for me and you :-
'Tis just six years since we were one,
And five since we were two.
I'm getting ready
For the garage sale tomorrow
My grandma passed away
A few weeks ago
She was a collector of things
You would never know.
I am thinking to sell
Her pair of wedding shoes
She wore one morning
Sixty years ago
Walking slowly
In a long tailed wedding gown,
Holding a bouquet of flowers in one hand
While her father held the other
Soon to be given away to her beau,
Walking beside her proud and smiling
In a wedding tuxedo.
Could she have wildly imagined then
That Thirty years later
Her unwed daughter
Would give me up for adoption
Shortly after I was born?
My mom, a poor mother
Could not face raising me up.
I look at the pair of shoes
They still look like new to me.
She saved them as a treasure
In the original shoe box, tucked
Under her wedding grown
In her old leather suitcase
Made in some small
Now a non-existent Texas' town.
The shoes are high heeled
Light brown, each with two leather straps
To go around the ankles
Some sort of a hybrid
Of dress shoes and sandals,
High fashion luxury of grandma's days.
I look at them again
And change my mind
I will not sell them
They are worth a fortune to me.
Sixty years ago
After I do, I do
The choir boy rang
the wedding bells
On the top of the steeple.
That moment, my grandma
Was wearing these shoes.
If I was a ghost in love
Walking veiled in mystery
I would ask a ghostly dove
to take a message to thee
Flying down from above
Asking you to marry me
From the spectoral one you love
Strange as this might be
On this October night
I think  that it might be
For our guests a terrible fright
To see what they  will see
And will they hear the I do's
Against the sea of wails
And will you always be true
To a lover who's very pale
Marriage is a bond of love
sealed under the eyes of God.
An arrangement of love for one another,
and the enrichment of their two lives.
Wedding Anniversaries celebrate
the bond of both man and wife,
of their choice to live together
for the rest of their lives.
So as we say Happy Wedding Anniversary to someone.
We are celebrating two people
whose lives have now become one.
We are wishing them love,
luck for the future
and that more anniversaries
they will share together.
Happy Wedding Anniversary Meggie
with many many more to come.
From a special friend.
After paying tax, other kings left.
King Harichandran then kept
For counseling a few courtiers
On some important matters.
By then, some hermits
Stood at the palace gate.
With their pious faces
In their ascetic dresses.
He rushed up to the gate
And fell at their feet.
With all the due respects,
He offered them proper seats.
He said, “It’s my fortune,
And my good deeds alone,
Brought Your Holiness
To this humble place.”
“What’re the holy places
Also the holy rivers
You’ve visited so far?
In what condition they’re? ”
They replied, “We’ve come
From the Kannoj Kingdom,
After our bath in holy water
Of the famous Kandagi river.”
“There we heard about you
And came here to see you.
King Chandradayan is
The ruler of that place.”
“He’s an ardent devotee
Of Shiva, the Presiding Deity,
And a daughter was born
To him with His boon.”
“For her matchless beauty,
He named her Chandramathi.
She’s known for her chastity,
And her feminine modesty.”
“Her spear-like beautiful eyes,
Her sweet melodious voice,
Her black, thick, lock of hairs
Added to her charming face.”
“She has a sharp chest
Above her slim waist.
Her pretty swan-like walk,
Spoke of her majestic look.”
“With a *thali, she was born.
It’ll be visible to only one,
To whom she’ll be married.
This, Lord Shiva promised.”
(*Thali = A nuptial knot
tied around the neck of
bride by bridegroom at
the time of marriage)
“We came here to tell you,
She’s an ideal wife for you.
No doubt, you’ll like her,
When you go and see her.”
The words of the hermits,
Into his ears, strongly hit.
As destiny played its role,
In love with her, he fell.
“Oh Sages, I’m eager,
Right now, to marry her.
Your help, may I seek.
Can you initiate the talk? ”
“It’ll be our pleasure,
Oh King, to go there,
And after the talk,
Here, we’ll come back.”
After their departure,
He thought of his future.
Cupid’s arrow shot him well,
Into love sickness, he fell.
Crossing forests, rivers
Mountains and plains,
To Kannoj the hermits went
And the king, they met.
The King Chandradayan,
Got up from his throne,
Prostrated before them,
And gave a royal welcome.
They told, “Oh king, listen,
We met King Harichandran,
Of the Ayodhya Kingdom.
About Chandramathi, we told him.”
“We found him eligible,
The one most suitable
To marry your daughter.
He awaits your answer.”
The King told, “The man
Who sees her thali is the one
To marry her, is laid down
By Lord Shiva as a condition.”
“I’ll invite him here.
Also you bring him here.
Let the Lord of Heaven,
Take His final decision.”
Thro’ royal messengers
He sent invitation letters
To all the kings to come
For the selection of groom.
Kings of every state
Came there in haste
With all pomp and show
And camped there in a row.
Harichandran had heard
What all the hermits said
When they returned back
After their marriage talk.
He went then in his chariot
To take part in the event,
Followed by his ministers,
Soldiers, horses and elephants.
Sage Vashista arrived in
A white special palanquin,
To sanctify the function
With Vedas recitation.
There was a procession
To mark that occasion.
In front soldiers marched.
Elephants, horses went behind.
Many hermits and sages,
Irrespective of all ages,
Came to bless the function,
This being a rare occasion.
Colorful umbrellas, flags,
The sound of bugles, drums,
Elephants carrying maids,
Thrilled the processions.
Harichandran camped near
The famous Komati River
With his soldiers, horses,
Elephants and chariots.
It was time for the sun
To set in the west then.
At the river bank site
They settled for the night.
To the trees, horses were tied.
The elephants were chained.
For stay, tents were erected.
For light, torches burned.
Outside, the moon light
Made the night bright.
For sleep, went everyone,
Except King Harichandran.
The thought of Chandramathi
Kept Harichandran’s mind busy.
He hated the slow moving night,
And the vexing moon light.
For the sake of Harichandran,
Cocks crowed early morn
Inviting the rising sun,
To come out very soon.
The night moon had gone,
With the arrival of the sun,
That began its open session,
In the morning reddish sky then.
From their homely nests
Flew out all hungry birds
In search of their foods,
From the city and woods.
After his bath in the river,
And his morning prayer,
King Harichandran went
To places in his chariot.
It was a pleasant sight,
To see wherever he went,
Like waterfalls, gardens,
Streams and mountains.
After days of travel
Crossing every hurdle
He reached the destination
In time for the function.
The hermits first led him
To Kannoj Kingdom
And then to the City
Of Kannamapuri
They said, “This is the place
Where Chandramathi lives.
It is here we saw her father
And discussed your matter.”
Into the City when he came,
Happy Harichandran became.
The guest house, he reached,
Where all the kings stayed.
Chandradayan gave him
A pleasing warm welcome.
All eyes looked at him
For his beauty and charm.
After what he has seen
Chandradayan was keen
That King Harichandran
Would be a good selection.
Close maids of Chandramathi
Briefed her about his beauty.
After hearing about him,
She fell in love with him.
In the main assembly hall
Kings were seated well.
There, she was led
By her close maid.
Her gorgeous bridal dress,
Enhanced her beautiful face,
That highly did impress
All the assembled Kings.
One of her maids followed,
King after king, she introduced,
But her eyes were looking for
Harichandran, her dream lover.
At last, when the turn came,
On hearing Harichandran’s name,
She saw him very closely,
Who looked so lovely.
“Is she a married woman? ”
Asked King Harichandran,
After seeing the nuptial thali
Tied around her neck closely.
Chandradayan heard this,
And explained him the cause,
That it was Shiva’s boon,
What he had actually seen.
Chandramathi was worried
And threw the garland
That straight went and fell
On Harichandran’s neck well.
Other kings felt unhappy,
While he was too happy
To receive her garland
From her lovely hand.
The wedding followed
And they got married.
It was a lovely first night,
Happily they both spent.
It was time for them
To leave Kannoj Kingdom,
From there, they all came
Back to Ayodhya Kingdom.
Chandramathi conceived.
In due course she delivered
A cute handsome boy
To their boundless joy.
They named him Devadasan,
And till he reached seven,
They both lived happily,
Free from any worry.
It finally snapped!
It had become tighter
over the years.
He pretended he didn’t notice
that his finger was growing
around the ring.
He assured me it didn’t hurt,
claimed his finger was always
that shade of purple,
but yesterday it was stretched
beyond it’s limits
and it just snapped.
He was pushing a shopping cart
(of all things!)
buying the needed supplies
to cook me a special dinner.
He stood there
like a deer caught in the headlights
not sure what to do.
Does this say something
about our marriage?
Did he really think our love
was dependant on a ring?
I grabbed his hand and looked
where the ring had been.
That finger looked so painful
the ring had actually left
a permanent imprint
as if his finger was made
of play dough.
I couldn’t help but wonder
if that is how our marriage has felt to him.
Confining, painful and restrictive………
I will buy him a new ring,
One that allows his finger room
To breathe and move freely
just as I want him to feel
in this marriage.
You shall hear how Pau-Puk-Keewis,
How the handsome Yenadizze
Danced at Hiawatha's wedding;
How the gentle Chibiabos,
He the sweetest of musicians,
Sang his songs of love and longing;
How Iagoo, the great boaster,
He the marvellous story-teller,
Told his tales of strange adventure,
That the feast might be more joyous,
That the time might pass more gayly,
And the guests be more contented.
Sumptuous was the feast Nokomis
Made at Hiawatha's wedding;
All the bowls were made of bass-wood,
White and polished very smoothly,
All the spoons of horn of bison,
Black and polished very smoothly.
She had sent through all the village
Messengers with wands of willow,
As a sign of invitation,
As a token of the feasting;
And the wedding guests assembled,
Clad in all their richest raiment,
Robes of fur and belts of wampum,
Splendid with their paint and plumage,
Beautiful with beads and tassels.
First they ate the sturgeon, Nahma,
And the pike, the Maskenozha,
Caught and cooked by old Nokomis;
Then on pemican they feasted,
Pemican and buffalo marrow,
Haunch of deer and hump of bison,
Yellow cakes of the Mondamin,
And the wild rice of the river.
But the gracious Hiawatha,
And the lovely Laughing Water,
And the careful old Nokomis,
Tasted not the food before them,
Only waited on the others
Only served their guests in silence.
And when all the guests had finished,
Old Nokomis, brisk and busy,
From an ample pouch of otter,
Filled the red-stone pipes for smoking
With tobacco from the South-land,
Mixed with bark of the red willow,
And with herbs and leaves of fragrance.
Then she said, "O Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Dance for us your merry dances,
Dance the Beggar's Dance to please us,
That the feast may be more joyous,
That the time may pass more gayly,
And our guests be more contented!"
Then the handsome Pau-Puk-Keewis,
He the idle Yenadizze,
He the merry mischief-maker,
Whom the people called the Storm-Fool,
Rose among the guests assembled.
Skilled was he in sports and pastimes,
In the merry dance of snow-shoes,
In the play of quoits and ball-play;
Skilled was he in games of hazard,
In all games of skill and hazard,
Pugasaing, the Bowl and Counters,
Kuntassoo, the Game of Plum-stones.
Though the warriors called him Faint-Heart,
Called him coward, Shaugodaya,
Idler, gambler, Yenadizze,
Little heeded he their jesting,
Little cared he for their insults,
For the women and the maidens
Loved the handsome Pau-Puk-Keewis.
He was dressed in shirt of doeskin,
White and soft, and fringed with ermine,
All inwrought with beads of wampum;
He was dressed in deer-skin leggings,
Fringed with hedgehog quills and ermine,
And in moccasins of buck-skin,
Thick with quills and beads embroidered.
On his head were plumes of swan's down,
On his heels were tails of foxes,
In one hand a fan of feathers,
And a pipe was in the other.
Barred with streaks of red and yellow,
Streaks of blue and bright vermilion,
Shone the face of Pau-Puk-Keewis.
From his forehead fell his tresses,
Smooth, and parted like a woman's,
Shining bright with oil, and plaited,
Hung with braids of scented grasses,
As among the guests assembled,
To the sound of flutes and singing,
To the sound of drums and voices,
Rose the handsome Pau-Puk-Keewis,
And began his mystic dances.
First he danced a solemn measure,
Very slow in step and gesture,
In and out among the pine-trees,
Through the shadows and the sunshine,
Treading softly like a panther.
Then more swiftly and still swifter,
Whirling, spinning round in circles,
Leaping o'er the guests assembled,
Eddying round and round the wigwam,
Till the leaves went whirling with him,
Till the dust and wind together
Swept in eddies round about him.
Then along the sandy margin
Of the lake, the Big-Sea-Water,
On he sped with frenzied gestures,
Stamped upon the sand, and tossed it
Wildly in the air around him;
Till the wind became a whirlwind,
Till the sand was blown and sifted
Like great snowdrifts o'er the landscape,
Heaping all the shores with Sand Dunes,
Sand Hills of the Nagow Wudjoo!
Thus the merry Pau-Puk-Keewis
Danced his Beggar's Dance to please them,
And, returning, sat down laughing
There among the guests assembled,
Sat and fanned himself serenely
With his fan of turkey-feathers.
Then they said to Chibiabos,
To the friend of Hiawatha,
To the sweetest of all singers,
To the best of all musicians,
"Sing to us, O Chibiabos!
Songs of love and songs of longing,
That the feast may be more joyous,
That the time may pass more gayly,
And our guests be more contented!"
And the gentle Chibiabos
Sang in accents sweet and tender,
Sang in tones of deep emotion,
Songs of love and songs of longing;
Looking still at Hiawatha,
Looking at fair Laughing Water,
Sang he softly, sang in this wise:
"Onaway! Awake, beloved!
Thou the wild-flower of the forest!
Thou the wild-bird of the prairie!
Thou with eyes so soft and fawn-like!
"If thou only lookest at me,
I am happy, I am happy,
As the lilies of the prairie,
When they feel the dew upon them!
"Sweet thy breath is as the fragrance
Of the wild-flowers in the morning,
As their fragrance is at evening,
In the Moon when leaves are falling.
"Does not all the blood within me
Leap to meet thee, leap to meet thee,
As the springs to meet the sunshine,
In the Moon when nights are brightest?
"Onaway! my heart sings to thee,
Sings with joy when thou art near me,
As the sighing, singing branches
In the pleasant Moon of Strawberries!
"When thou art not pleased, beloved,
Then my heart is sad and darkened,
As the shining river darkens
When the clouds drop shadows on it!
"When thou smilest, my beloved,
Then my troubled heart is brightened,
As in sunshine gleam the ripples
That the cold wind makes in rivers.
"Smiles the earth, and smile the waters,
Smile the cloudless skies above us,
But I lose the way of smiling
When thou art no longer near me!
"I myself, myself! behold me!
Blood of my beating heart, behold me!
Oh awake, awake, beloved!
Onaway! awake, beloved!"
Thus the gentle Chibiabos
Sang his song of love and longing;
And Iagoo, the great boaster,
He the marvellous story-teller,
He the friend of old Nokomis,
Jealous of the sweet musician,
Jealous of the applause they gave him,
Saw in all the eyes around him,
Saw in all their looks and gestures,
That the wedding guests assembled
Longed to hear his pleasant stories,
His immeasurable falsehoods.
Very boastful was Iagoo;
Never heard he an adventure
But himself had met a greater;
Never any deed of daring
But himself had done a bolder;
Never any marvellous story
But himself could tell a stranger.
Would you listen to his boasting,
Would you only give him credence,
No one ever shot an arrow
Half so far and high as he had;
Ever caught so many fishes,
Ever killed so many reindeer,
Ever trapped so many beaver!
None could run so fast as he could,
None could dive so deep as he could,
None could swim so far as he could;
None had made so many journeys,
None had seen so many wonders,
As this wonderful Iagoo,
As this marvellous story-teller!
Thus his name became a by-word
And a jest among the people;
And whene'er a boastful hunter
Praised his own address too highly,
Or a warrior, home returning,
Talked too much of his achievements,
All his hearers cried, "Iagoo!
Here's Iagoo come among us!"
He it was who carved the cradle
Of the little Hiawatha,
Carved its framework out of linden,
Bound it strong with reindeer sinews;
He it was who taught him later
How to make his bows and arrows,
How to make the bows of ash-tree,
And the arrows of the oak-tree.
So among the guests assembled
At my Hiawatha's wedding
Sat Iagoo, old and ugly,
Sat the marvellous story-teller.
And they said, "O good Iagoo,
Tell us now a tale of wonder,
Tell us of some strange adventure,
That the feast may be more joyous,
That the time may pass more gayly,
And our guests be more contented!"
And Iagoo answered straightway,
"You shall hear a tale of wonder,
You shall hear the strange adventures
Of Osseo, the Magician,
From the Evening Star descending."
The small dust particle
Is like an atom
Revolves on its centre
The light coming through the window
Gives it visibility
The drops of rain were falling
Splashing on earth
Leaving behind lightening thunders
We had heard in childhood
The rain drops so falling
Is the jackal's wedding
The celebration
Though deep in the heart
And around is the circle
Of the singing girls
And playing children
Islamabad
21/5/2010
I will make the sun shine bright on your wedding day
and I will make your night as a  beautiful and peaceful one
I will make the heaven to throw his blessings to you
and I will show you how much I love you my son
Today is your wedding day and its the most beautiful day for you
A man and a woman promise each other in front of me to live together forever
and an oath of life between both of you can not be broken till the end
Trust each other and make your journey to the greatest love
Have a faith on me then I will protect you in many ways
and I will make your life worth to live the way you want to do so
Show your availability by coming to this church for prayers
and  I will show you my ability through my precepts my son
Always, have a kind word for those who needs help
Always, give your heart for those who loves me
Always, make others to understand my strength and power
Always, have a hearty appetite to follow my steps my son
Today is your wedding day and its the most happiest day for you
Let the rest of your life be the best of life with my blessings
Walk with me my son I will clear all those rough path ways
and I will make you to reach a life without falling into any sins
Ravi Sathasivam / Sri Lanka
Copyright @2006 Ravi Sathasivam
I love:
The tides that ebb and flow
And marbled lights on broken roads
The warmth of poetry within
Evening caress that transcends sin.
I love:
The birds that were duped by an early thaw
To mid-winter song, and wonder -
If they were so very wrong?
I ask you to take this ageing ring of gold
Companion touchstone of a first communion
And to hold its trust as we will mold
What God shall join for evermore.
Why do you speak so softly, Death, Death,
Creep upon me, watch me so stealthily?
This is not how a lover should behave.
When evening flowers droop upon their tired
Stems, when cattle are brought in from the fields
After a whole day’s grazing, you, Death,
Death, approach me with such gentle steps,
Settle yourself immovably by my side.
I cannot understand the things you say.
Alas, will this be how you will take me, Death,
Death? Like a thief, laying heavy sleep
On my eyes as you descend to my heart?
Will you thus let your tread be a slow beat
In my sleep-numbed blood, your jingling ankle-bells
A drowsy rumble in my ear? Will you, Death,
Death, wrap me, finally, in your cold
Arms and carry me away while I dream?
I do not know why you thus come and go.
Tell me, is this the way you wed, Death,
Death? Unceremonially, with no
Weight of sacrament or blessing or prayer?
Will you come with your massy tawny hair
Unkempt, unbound into a bright coil-crown?
Will no one bear your victory-flag before
Or after, will no torches glow like red
Eyes along the river, Death, Death?
Will earth not quake in terror at your step?
When fierce-eyed Siva came to take his bride,
Remember all the pomp and trappings, Death,
Death: the flapping tiger-skins he wore;
His roaring bull; the serpents hissing round
His hair; the bom-bom sound as he slapped his cheeks;
The necklace of skulls swinging round his neck;
The sudden raucous music as he blew
His horn to announce his coming - was this not
A better way of wedding, Death, Death?
And as that deathly wedding-party’s din
Grew nearer, Death, Death, tears of joy
Filled Gauri’s eyes and the garments at her breast
Quivered; her left eye fluttered and her heart
Pounded; her body quailed with thrilled delight
And her mind ran away with itself, Death, Death;
Her mother wailed and smote her head at the thought
Of receiving so wild a groom; and in his mind
Her father agreed calamity had struck.
Why must you always come like a thief, Death,
Death, always silently, at night’s end,
Leaving only tears? Come to me festively,
Make the whole night ring with your triumph, blow
Your victory-conch, dress me in blood-red robes,
Grasp me by the hand and sweep me away!
Pay no heed to what others may think, Death,
Death, for I shall of my own free will
Resort to you if you but take me gloriously.
If I am immersed in work in my room
When you arrive, Death, Death, then break
My work, thrust my unreadiness aside.
If I am sleeping, sinking all desires
In the dreamy pleasure of my bed, or I lie
With apathy gripping my heart and my eyes
Flickering between sleep and waking, fill
Your conch with your destructive breath and blow,
Death, Death, and I shall run to you.
I shall go to where your boat is moored,
Death, Death, to the sea where the wind rolls
Darkness towards me from infinity.
I may see black clouds massing in the far
North-east corner of the sky; fiery snakes
Of lightning may rear up with their hoods raised,
But I shall not flinch in unfounded fear -
I shall pass silently, unswervingly
Across that red storm-sea, Death, Death.
February 25th, 1851.
YOU are to be married, Mary;
This hour as I wakeful lie
In the dreamy dawn of the morning,
Your wedding hour draws nigh;
Miles off, you are rising, dressing,
Your bridemaidens gay among,
In the same old house we played in,--
You and I, when we were young.
Your bridemaids--they were our playmates:
Those known rooms, every wall,
Could speak of our childish frolics,
Loves, jealousies, great and small:
Do you mind how pansies changed we
And smiled at the word 'forget'?--
'T was a girl's romance: yet somehow
I have kept my pansy yet.
Do you mind our poems written
Together? our dreams of fame--
And of love--how we'd share all secrets
When that sweet mystery came?
It is no mystery now, Mary;
It was unveiled, year by year,
Till--this is your marriage morning;
And I rest quiet here.
I cannot call up your face, Mary,
The face of the bride to-day:
You have outgrown my knowledge,
The years have so slipped away.
I see but your girlish likeness,
Brown eyes and brown falling hair;--
God knows, I did love you dearly,
And was proud that you were fair.
Many speak my name, Mary,
While yours in home's silence lies:
The future I read in toil's guerdon,
You will read in your children's eyes:
The past--the same past with either--
Is to you a delightsome scene,
But I cannot trace it clearly
For the graves that rise between.
I am glad you are happy, Mary!
These tears, could you see them fall,
Would show, though you have forgotten,
I have remembered all.
And though my cup may be empty
While yours is all running o'er,
Heaven keep you its sweetness, Mary,
Brimming for evermore.
One said, its a secret
So don't say to anyone
Said, she is marrying
That she is, my love
The one, don't knew it
Heart stopped for second
And started to pain badly
My throat too had felt it
But my lips had smiled
And said, its good news
The one said me date
And told me to come
By then heart was broken
But my lips still smiled
Said, wish i can do so
The one started to say
About my loves only love
So my ears were on job
And lips carried the talk
But rest of me had died
The one told me all
About my loves love
Then my dead heart felt
My loves love is better
Far far better than me
So I wiped my eyes
Said bye to the one
And placed hand on heart
Said, its time to sing
For my only loves wedding
Wedding, which i can't go
My broken heart is weak
It can't break down more
But its each broken piece
Sings a happy marry life
Forever to my loves wedding
Humble submission: ~ India gives highest tribute to Motherhoodness. Women are considered as embodiment of Mother. Here in Poem Hunter I’d rare privilege to get all love, psychic solace and support from Mom Almedia. As I’m reared in Indian milieu it was not difficult for me to accept Ma’am Almedia as Mom [vide ‘OMNI PERVADING MOTHER’].
To quote Mom [23.10.10] ‘I will read one of your poems at my wedding dinner on the 7th of November… I'm wearing sori [sari] on my wedding day’.
Wow! ~ Wow! ! ~ Wow! ! ! Spellbound and dumbfounded I’m Mom by  your nectarine love for me.
Mom I wish salubrious and spic peace [Shanti] ~ wee niv.
Today I’ve also posted one poetry [Paean] which is also on wholesome Motherhoodness.
~ MY MOM’S WEDDING  ~
Ms. Nivedita
UK
29 October 2010
Falling love is innate and incurable
Unchallangbly dependably durable
There will be flowething bliss unstoppable
Vibe escalation catharsis in all inflatable
May All Highest bestow love calorie inextinguishable
Is the sincere prayer of wee niv is unfathomable.
Why fuss for age
Ride and rally on sledge
Explore explode in ablaze
Bloom and boom in made for each other tutelage
Savor love care share bear bare in life’s mileage.
===
Copyright reserved by author
My wedding day
The day before it we had a fight
Bits and pieces stay in the mind
Your tears and my fright
For all you would not say,
Became as a wall between us that night.
My wedding day
So many lights
Wanting to disappear into the crowd
Can't you take me away?
Please, listen......
Hear the words I am afraid to say.
My wedding day
Why in the world am I here?
This isn't truly where I long to be....
Please, just say the words,
The ones you'd speak to set me free.
My wedding day
A smile on my face to mask the sorrow
This wasn't what I wanted....
I've truly only wanted you.
The biggest mistake I'll ever make...
Are these vows I'm about to take.
My wedding day
And in the end I am in your arms
But for only heartbeat; a moment-
You hold me close as your tears overflow.
All I ever really wanted was to hold you....
And forever it breaks my heart
That you chose to let me go.
Some Change Exists
The signs of love-sickness,
Were visible on the princess,
But her maids couldn’t guess
What was the reason behind this?
They were scared about her,
And told this to her mother,
“Dhamayanthi, your daughter
Is not doing well, as before.”
“Some change exists, we see.
Of late she’s not care free.”
On hearing this, her mother
Carried the news to her father.
Her Father came
On hearing the same,
Vimarasan, her father came,
Accompanied by her maids,
Many walking on both sides.
Some blew conches.
A few bet drums.
Others shook fans
To give him cool breeze.
Heading this royal procession,
He reached her mansion,
In a tense atmosphere
To know more about her.
The Girl Carried Creeper
Honeybees swarmed
Her flower garland
And were humming
Around while circling.
With her soft hair
She looked so fair.
She fell at his feet
As a mark of respect.
Wedding thoughts.
As she stood up face to face,
He saw her sweating face.
Her face was full of beauty
That made him so happy.
He thought, as a father,
“A chance be given to her
To select a bridegroom
Of her own, well in time.”
It was a prevailing custom
To select a bridegroom
From an assembly of princes
Eligible to marry a princess.
The bride went round,
With a flower garland,
To select her own
Choicest groom then.
Suyam-Varam day for the girl
The flooding surplus water,
From the Ganges River,
Was flowing, with noise,
O’er the green palm leaves.
The good country’s ruler,
Vidharpan, also her father,
Sent his royal messengers
To other states’ kings.
“We’ll have, from this day,
On the seventh auspicious day,
The Suyam-Varam ceremony
Of the Princess Dhamayanthi.”
Like this, he issued orders
Thro’ the tom-tom criers
To all the nooks and corners,
Also the towns and countries.
(Suyam-Varam = bridegroom
self-chosen by bride)
Great Kings Assembled
Great kings assembled,
For the ceremony held.
With all their royal pomp
And show they came up.
One with an umbrella, white,
Another, on a royal elephant,
The third, wore a big garland,
That, by bees, was swarmed.
One looked like a warrior,
Chandran Swarki, one more,
Also those, who praised him,
And, in Tamil poetry, adored him.
Like this, Kings in groups,
Of various, assorted types,
In Vidharba’s Capital arrived
And in the hall they assembled.
Royal Kings Arrived
To swallow the pollen grains,
Many bees swarmed the garlands,
Worn by the king Vimarasan,
The rich, broad chested man.
Elephants tied to posts,
Stood at his main gates.
Royal kings gathered in.
With their kith and kin.
Some of them stayed around
In tents laid on open ground,
Some in guest house or inn,
Awaiting the grand function.
Happiness everywhere
The Vidharpa’s King always held,
A spear of victory in his hand.
The red-lined-eyes of his daughter
Were pretty and crystal clear.
Like the Goddess Lakshmi
She represented beauty.
Like gold, shone her body.
Everyone was after this lady.
Inside the flower gardens,
Where birds stayed in,
And alongside lotus ponds
Some of them stayed in tents.
Came With Clouds
Nalan kept his eye vision
Right in the direction
By which the swan
Was likely to return.
He kept open his ears
To receive the news
From Dhamayanthi,
Whose face was lovely.
In the whirlpool of love,
He was immersed now,
That kept him very tired
In looking for swan that side.
In the sky, thro’ the cloud,
The flying swan hurried
Towards his direction,
That reduced his tension.
A Feast for the Ear
Nalan killed his enemies,
Who disobeyed his orders.
Such a great warrior
Stood like a beggar.
He was like a mendicant,
Who was a dependent
On rich men’s mercy,
To relive his poverty.
His posture was like this
When he heard the news
How she also loved him
And cared more for him.
He was so simple
And looked humble,
When the swan told
What all it heard.
No harm to her?
Nalan had a victorious spear,
That made his enemies fear.
He humbled his enemies,
Whose ego, he did suppress.
Immediately after he heard,
From the mouth of the bird,
He told, “Oh Swan, dear
The King of Swans, you’re.”
“It’s you, who got back,
My lost life for my sake,
Any harm did she face,
Let me know, in any case? ”
Told And Lost
At the command of Nalan,
There went the swan,
Met the lovely princess,
And conveyed the news.
It brought back the news
From the side of princess,
And passed the same on
To the victorious Nalan.
After hearing the news,
He lost his mental balance,
Could think nothing else,
And he became helpless.
Like an elephant in pit, he was
When he heard, she fell sick
Due to love, his heart broke.
Like an elephant in a pit
He fell into this love-pit.
He couldn’t come out
From this love-pit
That like fire burnt
His body and spirit.
Scene of Truth
The doors of Nalan
Were always kept open,
And never closed
During any period.
Bees slept with mates
In the beds of flowers
And it was fertile land
With greeneries around
The messengers who came
There to inform him,
Reached his palace
And gave him the news.
Get the Chariot
When they told Nalan
The news from Vimarasan,
He ordered his charioteer
To bring his chariot there.
First Man of the Town
Readily the chariot was kept.
At once Nalan took his seat.
He told the charioteer then
“Start the chariot soon.”
To the land of Vimarasan
Fast the chariot moved on
It was a land of plenty.
People lived there happily.
By the sea coastal side,
Vimarasan’s land spread.
From lotus flowed honey,
That made the land sticky.
Good lives lived in this land
Agriculture flourished there
Thick plants grew everywhere,
With gold like paddy grains
In his Nidathanadu plains.
Leaving this land behind,
His chariot went far ahead
In the land of Vimarasan
And reached the main town.
A sea of soldiers marched.
In alert, a bow-force stood,
As if it was scene of war
Ready to fight anywhere.
On this ceremonial occasion
The daughter of Vimarasan
Had a beautiful flower garland,
Adding colour to the back ground.
He saw beauty everywhere.
It was a great pleasure
For him to be there
In the land of his lover.
The sky is torn across
This ragged anniversary of two
Who moved for three years in tune
Down the long walks of their vows.
Now their love lies a loss
And Love and his patients roar on a chain;
From every tune or crater
Carrying cloud, Death strikes their house.
Too late in the wrong rain
They come together whom their love parted:
The windows pour into their heart
And the doors burn in their brain.
Once upon a wedding day
A couple joined in a close association
with hopes of love and good fortune to stay
That brought a state of euphoria to them
In every distinguished way.
Once upon a wedding day
the memories of their courtship
Glowed warmly in their heart
Where care and cultivated affection
Ever played a fundamental part.
Once upon a wedding day
The marriage ceremony was extra special
With the wedding march stately and slow
And the procession seemed to sparkle
And brought forth an attractive glow.
Once upon a wedding day
The marriage ceremony and festivities,
The cards and gifts and flowers
Filled this day with cheerfulness
And many lovely and happy hours.
Once upon a wedding day
Those that they loved surrounded them
To share their happiness this day
Bestowing their blessings of the marriage
And for their nuptial vows to forever stay.
Here's a happy new year! but with reason
I beg you'll permit me to say
Wish me many returns of the season,
But as few as you please of the dy.
January 2, 1820.
If ever I am old, and all alone,
I shall have killed one grief, at any rate;
For then, thank God, I shall not have to wait
Much longer for the sheaves that I have sown.
The devil only knows what I have done,
But here I am, and here are six or eight
Good friends, who most ingenuously prate
About my songs to such and such a one.
But everything is all askew to-night,—
As if the time were come, or almost come,
For their untenanted mirage of me
To lose itself and crumble out of sight,
Like a tall ship that floats above the foam
A little while, and then breaks utterly.
Aeronaut, you're fairly caught,
Despite your bubble's leaven:
Out of the skies a lady's eyes
Have brought you down to Heaven!
No more, no more you'll freely soar
Above the grass and gravel:
Henceforth you'll walk-and she will chalk
The line that you're to travel!
Delighted
you undo my tie
then use it to
pull me to you
button
by
button
undo
slowly my shirt
cuffs
with lustful laughter.
Then just
as suddenly you
cry
weep bitterly unexpectedly.
'Shhhhhh! '
I hold you
close to me
ask why
dry your tears with kisses.
'Sometimes...'
(through tears you tell me)
'I love you so
much
I wonder
what would I do
if I were
to lose you...? '
I sweep you
off your feet
carry you
like a bride to bed
swear to marry you
each night forever.
This, then
is our 1,000th wedding.
Oh! We have come across thirty six dark thorny streets hand-in-hand
And ultimately stranded here in the land of opportunity.
I shook the tall money tree in the back yard.
But only the decayed leaves fell leaving the ripen fruits on the tree top.
My beloved wife wants to make a love cake on this particular day.
And she search the money in her till.
She grumbled that I have stolen half of the collection for my aromatic cigars in vain.
There the mail came and were some greeting cards from Australia, Sri-Lanka & et cetera.
Our precious daughters and son-in-laws have sent some of their hard earned money.
We must be very grateful to our loved ones!
I whispered to my cock-a-hoop wife's ear; ' Darling leave the bourgeois love cake aside,
Buy a cheap bottle of wine and finish it to the bottom.
Then we could have a sound sleep on the couch
Dreaming of a better world to-morrow.
* The trouble is, old age is not interesting until one gets there.It's a foreign country with an unknown language to the young and even to the middle aged.
-May Sarton
As we are now
In our wedding night
I saw the bright stars
Promising us happiness
Through all days to come
My bride I much adore you
You have my unbound love
Your shining beauty
Your gleaming eyes
The doors to paradise
Your cheerfulness
Your radiating delight
The candles lead our way
In the journey of life
The golden bells
The silver bells
They will all chime
Announcing merrily
For joyful future
For beautiful family
Crowning our love
Pour the wine bridegroom
where before you the
bride is enthroned her hair
loose at her temples a head
of ripe wheat is on
the wall beside her the
guests seated at long tables
the bagpipers are ready
there is a hound under
the table the bearded Mayor
is present women in their
starched headgear are
gabbing all but the bride
hands folded in her
lap is awkwardly silent simple
dishes are being served
clabber and what not
from a trestle made of an
unhinged barn door by two
helpers one in a red
coat a spoon in his hatband.
Sit down with me awhile, my Love
Let's leave the world behind;
This hour belongs to us alone:
Our moment etched in time.
Lean upon my shoulder, Sweet
And press your cheek to mine.
Let's set our eyes to spy upon
Our promised
ever after
, find.
Rest your arm upon my knee
And hold that smile again.
Another spot is next in line
On our wedding photography.
... for richer, or for richer still,
in status or in wealth,
in parenthood or career opportunity,
for as long as my current commitments permit,
I take thee...
Everywhere on floor litter paper cups.
Stale smell of jasmine flowers linger on.
Lie scattered are crushed carnations of bouquets.
Foul sweaty air blows from air conditioners.
Staring at the podium were a sea of sultry faces,
Where they exchanged rings and garlands.
Masked countenances were many in crowd.
Dyed n supplemented whole body by makeup.
A heap of plastic chairs stacked waiting.
Glittering graffiti n golden strings fly around.
Leftovers dried on dining tables, awaits a wipe.
Black ants returns home on a beeline with a morsel
A solitary wick in brass lamp still holds a flame.
Masks fallen from faces of dignitaries glares in light,
Expressions and emotions in many die stumbling on it.
Flow of life continues by sheath of births n deaths.
Beating a retreat sun peeps in with feeble rays.
Cast off by bride, a bouquet lie in a corner.
Day ends, as priests bid farewell with a grin.
Bride and groom enters back from their rest room
Night rides in a chariot driven by horses of time.
Couple on a ride to reality gallop on many terrains
Shades of moonlit images reflect on their faces.
At the end of ride, they alight in crumpled skin.
______________
Janaka, the King of Mithila,
A close friend of Dasaratha.
In a sowing ceremony held,
Ploughed a chosen field.
He saw amidst a nearby shrub,
A new born beautiful female babe,
And took her, as a father childless,
A gift from Mother Earth priceless!
To the palace, he brought her.
Sita, the lovely, he named her,
Adopted as his own daughter,
Proud of being her lucky father.
When she reached the proper age,
Almost ready for her marriage,
Janaka searched for an alliance,
Of the most suitable lovely prince.
He arranged for a competition.
To eligible princes sent a notification,
That her hand was for a worthy prince,
Who stringed the Shiva's bow once.
Princes of all the countries
Came and gave their tries,
But miserably failed to lift,
Bend or even slightly move it.
This brought worry to Janaka,
While the Sage Viswamitra,
Along with Lakshman and Rama,
Was nearing the city, Mithila,
On the way, an Ashram they saw
Of the revered Sage Gautama,
But none there was to be seen,
The Sage told them the reason.
Indra fell in love with Ahalya,
And in disguise as Gautama,
He had an undesirable union,
That she could have forsaken.
Indra tried to run away,
But the sage on the way,
Thro’ his inner eye view
What happened, he knew.
As a Gautama’s curse for his act,
His manhood total, he had lost,
And for the crying-pleading wife,
She had to live an invisible life.
He told that she be freed,
Back her visible life restored,
When the blessed feet of Ram
Touched the floor of the Ashram.
When Ram entered the site,
Ahalya appeared in their sight,
Gautama, by then, came there.
As a purified wife, he took her.
On their onward journey,
Towards the city roadway,
They went ahead slowly,
For the Royal ceremony.
King Janaka’s joy knew no bound,
At the sight of the lads he found.
He was so happy to give them
Both a hearty warm welcome.
At the king's humble request,
And at the Sage’s behest,
Ram bent, with ease, the divine bow,
But, just it broke into two.
Janaka offered the hand of Sita,
As a trophy for the winner Rama!
Dasaratha soon joined them,
For their marriage to perform.
What a pomp and show it was,
Beyond one’s description and guess?
Thus ended the Holy wedding of Sita-Ram,
With people hailing “Jai Janaki Ram! ”
It was the design of the Heaven,
That Goddess Lakshmi be born
As Sita to marry Rama incarnation
Of God Vishnu, in this Holy mission.
Even today, there goes a belief,
That a Hindu unmarried gets a relief,
Once he or she reads this in Ram’s life,
Gets married soon as husband and wife.
(Ashram = Cottage)     (Indra = Lord of all the heavenly bodies)
Juliet:
I will be thy chased rose and take thy name.
My heart will continue drumming its love for you the same;
And though thy mother and father mean nothing to me—
You are the sun rising over the bosom of my heart’s sea.
I will go with you hand in young hand
And be like your shadow roaming with you across the land.
In your eyes I see the myriad truths of my own soul
A kaleidoscope of sea shells in a pretty bowl—
To  you, my love, I will always be true—
And that is why I say that I do—
Romeo:
To think that the very sun I saw last night should so suddenly be mine
It gives me proof, at last, in a god that is kind—
For to you, I will be the very bird returning to burn in your sky:
And every night, I hope that with you in bed I lie—
So happy I am that you should become the rose that bares my name—
To your midnight’s balcony I am so glad I came—
Now if we can only escape the dark fate I am so afraid that I see
And that you can go on forever with me.
Now let me take your lips to my lips
and share for a moment an eternity’s bliss.
Silver Wedding
The party is over and I sit among
The flotsam that its passing leaves,
The dirty glasses and fag-ends:
Outside, a black wind grieves.
Two decades and a half of marriage;
It does not really seem as long,
Of youth's ebullient song.
David, my son, my loved rival,
And Julia, my tapering daughter,
Now grant me one achievement only;
I turn their wine to water.
And Helen, partner of all these years,
Helen, my spouse, my sack of sighs,
Reproaches me for every hurt
With injured, bovine eyes.
There must have been passion once, I grant,
But neither she nor I could bear
To have its ghost come prowling from
Its dark and frowsy lair.
And we, to keep our nuptials warm,
Still wage sporadic war;
Numb with insult each yet strives
To scratch the other raw.
Twenty-five years we've now survived;
I'm not sure either why or how
As I sit with a wreath of quarrels set
On my tired and balding brow.
Submitted by Andrew Mayers
WITH a bridegroom's joyous bearing,
Mounts Sir Curt his noble beast,
To his mistress' home repairing,
There to hold his wedding feast;
When a threatening foe advances
From a desert, rocky spot;
For the fray they couch their lances,
Not delaying, speaking not.
Long the doubtful fight continues,
Victory then for Curt declares;
Conqueror, though with wearied sinews,
Forward on his road he fares.
When he sees, though strange it may be,
Something 'midst the foliage move;
'Tis a mother, with her baby,
Stealing softly through the grove!
And upon the spot she beckons--
"Wherefore, love, this speed so wild?
Of the wealth thy storehouse reckons,
Hast thou nought to give thy child!"
Flames of rapture now dart through him,
And he longs for nothing more,
While the mother seemeth to him
Lovely as the maid of yore.
But he hears his servants blowing,
And bethinks him of his bride;
And ere long, while onward going,
Chances past a fair to ride;
In the booths he forthwith buys him
For his mistress many a pledge;
But, alas! some Jews surprise him,
And long-standing debts allege.
And the courts of justice duly
Send the knight to prison straight.
Oh accursed story, truly!
For a hero, what a fate!
Can my patience such things weather?
Great is my perplexity.
Women, debts, and foes together,--
Ah, no knight escapes scot free!
My Sister Has Always Been In My Life
Right From The Start
Now She’s About To Become Darren’s Wife
Because She Loves Him From The Bottom Of Her Heart
Having A Sister Is The Best Thing In The Ever
We Can Never Be Broken Apart, No Never
Having A Sister Is Not Just A Trend
Because I Know She Is My Bestest Freind
Sometimes We May Get Mad
Or Begin To Fight
But That’s The Fun  Part About Having A Sister
We Both Think That We’re Always Right
Now You Are Getting Married Zo
You’re Life Will Soon Be Complete
But I Will Still Come To You
Whenever I Feel Defeat
But Here’s My Chance
To Thank You For All You’ve Done
Because In My Book
You’ll Always Be Number One
To Me You Are An Angel In Disguise
You Are Happy, Intelligent And Wise
If I Had One Wish It Would Surely Be
To Give As Much To You As You’ve Given To Me
Thank You Zo, My Sister, My Freind
My Thanks To You Has No End
Through Our Ups And Downs
This Much Is True:
You’re A Sister, My Sister
And I Will Always Love You!
They waited sixteen long years
For the sounds of wedding bells
The wedding bells ring, dingdong, dingdong
The wedding bells sing, dingdong, dingdong
For all to hear strikingly clear
Hold your silence and wish them well
It is the sounds of wedding bells
This aged love birds have been waiting for
Once unofficial honeys
From this point declared official
In this matrimonial ceremony
I wish them well
Their braveness is my acknowledgement
Their enduring fight is my guiding light
Their victory will go down in history
Together they compliment and compliment
Each other like a perfect pair of fitting shoes
One way or another they already knew
Long before the sound of wedding bells
They would love each other till the very end
So listen to the sound of wedding bells
As they sing dingdong, dingdong
Perhaps for you it wouldn’t be long!
Copyright 2005 - Sylvia Chidi
I was a summer blossom
given away;
walking before a tear-scented Wedding Train,
inside an arm-locked processional,
with attending musical strains,
rose petal aisled
marriage vows.
My Dad finally breathed-
not wanting to release
but willed himself.
Love leaves that autumn-
mixing then
separations
and matrimonies,
ironies
and cleavings,
all falling gently
from his tree;
floating
evolving-
winging
paradoxes
and meanings-
leaf rustlings stirring;
signaling
someone's winter
and someone's spring.
Dad cries.
Daughter loves
both autumn leaves
and summer blossomings-
a gardenia scent
in the heavy air
falls quietly-
memory
stroked;
still trembling.
By the Eldest Grandson.
A rainbow span of fifty years,
Painted upon a cloud of tears,
In blue for hopes and red for fears,
Finds end in a golden hour to-day.
Ah, YOU to our childhood the legend told,
'At the end of the rainbow lies the gold,'
And now in our thrilling hearts we hold
The gold that never will pass away.
Gold crushed from the quartz of a crystal life,
Gold hammered with blows of human strife,
Gold burnt in the love of man and wife,
Till it is pure as the very flame:
Gold that the miser will not have,
Gold that is good beyond the grave,
Gold that the patient and the brave
Amass, neglecting praise and blame.
O golden hour that caps the time
Since, heart to heart like rhyme to rhyme,
You stood and listened to the chime
Of inner bells by spirits rung,
That tinkled many a secret sweet
Concerning how two souls should meet,
And whispered of Time's flying feet
With a most piquant silver tongue.
O golden day, -- a golden crown
For the kingly heads that bowed not down
To win a smile or 'scape a frown,
Except the smile and frown of Heaven!
Dear heads, still dark with raven hair;
Dear hearts, still white in spite of care;
Dear eyes, still black and bright and fair
As any eyes to mortals given!
Old parents of a restless race,
You miss full many a bonny face
That would have smiled a filial grace
Around your Golden Wedding wine.
But God is good and God is great.
His will be done, if soon or late.
Your dead stand happy in yon Gate
And call you blessed while they shine.
So, drop the tear and dry the eyes.
Your rainbow glitters in the skies.
Here's golden wine: young, old, arise:
With cups as full as our souls, we say:
'Two Hearts, that wrought with smiles through tears
This rainbow span of fifty years,
Behold how true, true love appears
True gold for your Golden Wedding day!'
In these days of peace and money, free to all the Commonweal,
There are ancient dames in Buckland wearing wedding rings of steel;
Wedding rings of steel and iron, worn on wrinkled hands and old,
And the wearers would not give them, not for youth nor wealth untold.
In the days of black oppression, when the best abandoned hope,
And all Buckland crouched in terror of the prison and the rope,
Many fair young wives in Buckland prayed beside their lonely beds
For the absent ones who knew not where to lay their outlawed heads.
But a whisper went through Buckland, to the rebels only known,
That the man across the border had a chance to hold his own.
There were men that came in darkness, quiet, grim and travel-worn,
And, by twos, and threes, the young men stole away to join Kinghorn.
Slipping powder-horns and muskets from beneath the floors and thatch,
There were boys who kissed their mothers ere they softly dropped the latch;
There were hunters' wives in backwoods who sat strangely still and white
Till the dawn, because their men-folk went a-hunting in the night.
But the rebels needed money, and so, through the Buckland hills,
Came again, by night, the gloomy men of monosyllables;
And the ladies gave their jewels to be smuggled out and sold,
And the homely wives of Buckland gave their wedding rings of gold.
And a Buckland smith in secret, and in danger, in his shed
Made them rings of baser metals (from the best he had, to lead),
To be gilt and worn to market, or to meetings where they.prayed,
Lest the spies should get an inkling, and the husbands be betrayed.
Then a silence fell on Buckland; there was peace throughout the land,
And a loyalty that puzzled all the captains in command;
There was too much Law and Order for the men who weren't blind,
And the greatest of the king's men wasn't easy in his mind.
They were hunting rebels, certes, and the troops were understood
To be searching for a stronghold like a needle in a wood;
But whene'er the king was prayed for in the meeting-houses, then
It was strange with how much unction ancient sinners cried "Ah-men!"
Till at last, when all was quiet, through the gloomy Buckland hills
Once again there came those furtive men of monosyllables;
And their message was – "Take warning what the morrow may reveal,
Death and Freedom may be married with a wedding ring of steel."
In the morning, from the marshes, rose the night-mist, cold and damp,
From the shipping in the harbour and the sleeping royal camp;
From the lanes and from the by-streets and the high streets of the town,
And above the hills of Buckland, where the rebel guns looked down.
And the first one sent a message to the camp to fight or yield,
And the wintry sun looked redly on a bloody battlefield;
Till the man from 'cross the border marched through Buckland once again,
With a charter for the people and ten thousand fighting men.
There are ancient dames in Buckland with old secrets to reveal,
Wearing wedding rings of iron, wearing wedding rings of steel;
And their tears drop on the metal when their thoughts are far away
In the past where their young husbands died on Buckland field that day.
THERE falls with every wedding chime
A feather from the wing of Time.
You pick it up, and say “How fair
To look upon its colors are!”
Another drops day after day
Unheeded; not one word you say.
When bright and dusky are blown past,
Upon the hearse there nods the last.
O will ye hear a mirthful bourd?
Or will ye hear of courtesie?
Or will ye hear how a gallant lord
Was wedded to a gay ladye?
'Ca' out the kye,' quo' the village herd,
As he stood on the knowe,
'Ca' this ane's nine and that ane's ten,
And bauld Lord William's cow.'-
'I swear by the light of the Michaelmas moon,
And the might of Mary high,
And by the edge of my braidsword brown.
They shall soon say Harden's kye.'
He took a bugle frae his side,
With names carved o'er and o'er -
Full many a chief of meikle pride
That Border bugle bore-
He blew a note baith sharp and hie,
Till rock and water rang around-
Three score of moss-troopers and three
Have mounted at that bugle sound.
The Michaelmas moon had enter'd then,
And ere she wan the full,
Ye might see by her light in Harden glen
A bow o' kye and a bassen'd bull.
And loud and loud in Harden tower
The quaigh gaed round wi' meikle glee;
For the English beef was brought in bower
And the English ale flow'd merrilie.
And mony a guest from Teviotside
And Yarrow's Braes was there;
Was never a lord in Scotland wide
That made more dainty fare.
They ate, they laugh'd, they sang and quaff'd,
Till nought on board was seen,
When knight and squire were boune to dine,
But a spur of silver sheen.
Lord William has ta'en his berry brown steed-
A sore shent man was he;
'Wait he, my guests, a little speed-
Weel feasted ye shall be.'
He rode him down by Falsehope burn,
His cousin dear to see,
With him to take a riding turn-
Wat-draw-the-sword was he.
And when he came to Falsehope glen,
Beneath the trysting-tree,
On the smooth green was carved plain,
'To Lochwood bound are we.'
'O if they be gane to dark Lochwood
To drive the Warden's gear,
Betwixt our names, I ween, there's feud;
I'll go and have my share:
'For little reck I for Johnstone's feud,
The Warden though he be.'
So Lord William is away to dark Lochwood,
With riders barely three.
The Warden's daughters in Lochwood sate,
Were all both fair and gay,
All save the Lady Margaret,
And she was wan and wae.
The sister, Jean, had a full fair skin,
And Grace was bauld and braw;
But the leal-fast heart her breast within
It weel was worth them a'.
Her father's pranked her sisters twa
With meikle joy and pride;
But Margaret maun seek Dundrennan's wa'-
She ne'er can be a bride.
On spear and casque by gallants gent
Her sisters' scarfs were borne,
But never at tilt or tournament
Were Margaret's colours worn.
Her sisters rode to Thirlstane bower,
But she was left at hame
To wander round the gloomy tower,
And sigh young Harden's name.
'Of all the knights, the knight most fair,
From Yarrow to the Tyne,'
Soft sigh'd the maid, 'is Harden's heir,
But ne'er can he be mine;
'Of all the maids, the foulest maid
From Teviot to the Dee,
Ah!' sighing sad, that lady said,
'Can ne'er young Harden's be.'-
She looked up the briery glen,
And up the mossy brae,
And she saw a score of her father's men
Yclad in the Johnstone grey.
O fast and fast they downwards sped
The moss and briers among,
And in the midst the troopers led
A shackled knight along.
These are twelve rose buds
in the bouquet
I give to you.
1.
This one is my Mind
for it has learned
that our two minds
melding will provide
light for our way.
2.
This one is my Heart
for there can be no
courage without it,
Faith its underpinning.
3.
My Body here now
unfolds
for only you
and under your touch
it blooms.
buffeted by that Innocence Betrothed
which smothers the Cynical Twinge.
4.
Our Future resides here
curled up fetal-style because
indeed our marriage
is just beginning.
5.
Home in this bulb
making it our mutual effort flower.
6.
This one is my shy
steel Devotion
which will not waver
or fall.
7. Here is my wish
for children
who reflect what we seek to grow here.
They are the earthly angels
humans are allowed.
8-9
My Spirit and my Soul
are these rose spheres
which inhabit our aora
these precious buds bring;
and this last is the
10.
Silver One
which is my Love
which opened its flower petal wings first
with you
taking my own breath away.
Under your touch
I,
for the first time in my life
bloomed
reeling from the smell
of rose-bud
bouquets;
of Tomorrows
Futures
and Yesterdays.
These in the end
are not mine to give
but I merely pass them
on to you and us
in the way that Nature
intends.
From these
are made
true Weddings.
You shall hear how Pau-Puk-Keewis,
How the handsome Yenadizze
Danced at Hiawatha's wedding;
How the gentle Chibiabos,
He the sweetest of musicians,
Sang his songs of love and longing;
How Iagoo, the great boaster,
He the marvellous story-teller,
Told his tales of strange adventure,
That the feast might be more joyous,
That the time might pass more gayly,
And the guests be more contented.
Sumptuous was the feast Nokomis
Made at Hiawatha's wedding;
All the bowls were made of bass-wood,
White and polished very smoothly,
All the spoons of horn of bison,
Black and polished very smoothly.
She had sent through all the village
Messengers with wands of willow,
As a sign of invitation,
As a token of the feasting;
And the wedding guests assembled,
Clad in all their richest raiment,
Robes of fur and belts of wampum,
Splendid with their paint and plumage,
Beautiful with beads and tassels.
First they ate the sturgeon, Nahma,
And the pike, the Maskenozha,
Caught and cooked by old Nokomis;
Then on pemican they feasted,
Pemican and buffalo marrow,
Haunch of deer and hump of bison,
Yellow cakes of the Mondamin,
And the wild rice of the river.
But the gracious Hiawatha,
And the lovely Laughing Water,
And the careful old Nokomis,
Tasted not the food before them,
Only waited on the others
Only served their guests in silence.
And when all the guests had finished,
Old Nokomis, brisk and busy,
From an ample pouch of otter,
Filled the red-stone pipes for smoking
With tobacco from the South-land,
Mixed with bark of the red willow,
And with herbs and leaves of fragrance.
Then she said, 'O Pau-Puk-Keewis,
Dance for us your merry dances,
Dance the Beggar's Dance to please us,
That the feast may be more joyous,
That the time may pass more gayly,
And our guests be more contented!'
Then the handsome Pau-Puk-Keewis,
He the idle Yenadizze,
He the merry mischief-maker,
Whom the people called the Storm-Fool,
Rose among the guests assembled.
Skilled was he in sports and pastimes,
In the merry dance of snow-shoes,
In the play of quoits and ball-play;
Skilled was he in games of hazard,
In all games of skill and hazard,
Pugasaing, the Bowl and Counters,
Kuntassoo, the Game of Plum-stones.
Though the warriors called him Faint-Heart,
Called him coward, Shaugodaya,
Idler, gambler, Yenadizze,
Little heeded he their jesting,
Little cared he for their insults,
For the women and the maidens
Loved the handsome Pau-Puk-Keewis.
He was dressed in shirt of doeskin,
White and soft, and fringed with ermine,
All inwrought with beads of wampum;
He was dressed in deer-skin leggings,
Fringed with hedgehog quills and ermine,
And in moccasins of buck-skin,
Thick with quills and beads embroidered.
On his head were plumes of swan's down,
On his heels were tails of foxes,
In one hand a fan of feathers,
And a pipe was in the other.
Barred with streaks of red and yellow,
Streaks of blue and bright vermilion,
Shone the face of Pau-Puk-Keewis.
From his forehead fell his tresses,
Smooth, and parted like a woman's,
Shining bright with oil, and plaited,
Hung with braids of scented grasses,
As among the guests assembled,
To the sound of flutes and singing,
To the sound of drums and voices,
Rose the handsome Pau-Puk-Keewis,
And began his mystic dances.
First he danced a solemn measure,
Very slow in step and gesture,
In and out among the pine-trees,
Through the shadows and the sunshine,
Treading softly like a panther.
Then more swiftly and still swifter,
Whirling, spinning round in circles,
Leaping o'er the guests assembled,
Eddying round and round the wigwam,
Till the leaves went whirling with him,
Till the dust and wind together
Swept in eddies round about him.
Then along the sandy margin
Of the lake, the Big-Sea-Water,
On he sped with frenzied gestures,
Stamped upon the sand, and tossed it
Wildly in the air around him;
Till the wind became a whirlwind,
Till the sand was blown and sifted
Like great snowdrifts o'er the landscape,
Heaping all the shores with Sand Dunes,
Sand Hills of the Nagow Wudjoo!
Thus the merry Pau-Puk-Keewis
Danced his Beggar's Dance to please them,
And, returning, sat down laughing
There among the guests assembled,
Sat and fanned himself serenely
With his fan of turkey-feathers.
Then they said to Chibiabos,
To the friend of Hiawatha,
To the sweetest of all singers,
To the best of all musicians,
'Sing to us, O Chibiabos!
Songs of love and songs of longing,
That the feast may be more joyous,
That the time may pass more gayly,
And our guests be more contented!'
And the gentle Chibiabos
Sang in accents sweet and tender,
Sang in tones of deep emotion,
Songs of love and songs of longing;
Looking still at Hiawatha,
Looking at fair Laughing Water,
Sang he softly, sang in this wise:
'Onaway! Awake, beloved!
Thou the wild-flower of the forest!
Thou the wild-bird of the prairie!
Thou with eyes so soft and fawn-like!
'If thou only lookest at me,
I am happy, I am happy,
As the lilies of the prairie,
When they feel the dew upon them!
'Sweet thy breath is as the fragrance
Of the wild-flowers in the morning,
As their fragrance is at evening,
In the Moon when leaves are falling.
'Does not all the blood within me
Leap to meet thee, leap to meet thee,
As the springs to meet the sunshine,
In the Moon when nights are brightest?
'Onaway! my heart sings to thee,
Sings with joy when thou art near me,
As the sighing, singing branches
In the pleasant Moon of Strawberries!
'When thou art not pleased, beloved,
Then my heart is sad and darkened,
As the shining river darkens
When the clouds drop shadows on it!
'When thou smilest, my beloved,
Then my troubled heart is brightened,
As in sunshine gleam the ripples
That the cold wind makes in rivers.
'Smiles the earth, and smile the waters,
Smile the cloudless skies above us,
But I lose the way of smiling
When thou art no longer near me!
'I myself, myself! behold me!
Blood of my beating heart, behold me!
Oh awake, awake, beloved!
Onaway! awake, beloved!'
Thus the gentle Chibiabos
Sang his song of love and longing;
And Iagoo, the great boaster,
He the marvellous story-teller,
He the friend of old Nokomis,
Jealous of the sweet musician,
Jealous of the applause they gave him,
Saw in all the eyes around him,
Saw in all their looks and gestures,
That the wedding guests assembled
Longed to hear his pleasant stories,
His immeasurable falsehoods.
Very boastful was Iagoo;
Never heard he an adventure
But himself had met a greater;
Never any deed of daring
But himself had done a bolder;
Never any marvellous story
But himself could tell a stranger.
Would you listen to his boasting,
Would you only give him credence,
No one ever shot an arrow
Half so far and high as he had;
Ever caught so many fishes,
Ever killed so many reindeer,
Ever trapped so many beaver!
None could run so fast as he could,
None could dive so deep as he could,
None could swim so far as he could;
None had made so many journeys,
None had seen so many wonders,
As this wonderful Iagoo,
As this marvellous story-teller!
Thus his name became a by-word
And a jest among the people;
And whene'er a boastful hunter
Praised his own address too highly,
Or a warrior, home returning,
Talked too much of his achievements,
All his hearers cried, 'Iagoo!
Here's Iagoo come among us!'
He it was who carved the cradle
Of the little Hiawatha,
Carved its framework out of linden,
Bound it strong with reindeer sinews;
He it was who taught him later
How to make his bows and arrows,
How to make the bows of ash-tree,
And the arrows of the oak-tree.
So among the guests assembled
At my Hiawatha's wedding
Sat Iagoo, old and ugly,
Sat the marvellous story-teller.
And they said, 'O good Iagoo,
Tell us now a tale of wonder,
Tell us of some strange adventure,
That the feast may be more joyous,
That the time may pass more gayly,
And our guests be more contented!'
And Iagoo answered straightway,
'You shall hear a tale of wonder,
You shall hear the strange adventures
Of Osseo, the Magician,
From the Evening Star descending.'
The girl smiled and said: What
is the secret of this gold ring,
the secret of this ring that so tightly
embraces my finger,
the secret of this band
that sparkles and shines so?
the man was startled and said:
it's the ring of good fortune, the ring of life.
Everyone said: Congratulations and best wishes!
the girl said: Alas
that I still have doubts about its meaning.
The years passed, and one night
a downhearted woman looked at that gold band
and saw in its gleaming pattern
days wasted in hopes of husbandly fidelity,
days totally wasted.
The woman grew agitated and cried out:
O my, this ring that
still sparkles and shines
is the band of slavery and servitude.
Disciplined by the artist
to go round
and round
in holiday gear
a riotously gay rabble of
peasants and their
ample-bottomed doxies
fills
the market square
featured by the women in
their starched
white headgear
they prance or go openly
toward the wood's
edges
round and around in
rough shoes and
farm breeches
mouths agape
Oya !
kicking up their heels
WITHIN the chamber, far away
From the glad feast, sits Love in dread
Lest guests disturb, in wanton play,
The silence of the bridal bed.
His torch's pale flame serves to gild
The scene with mystic sacred glow;
The room with incense-clouds is fil'd,
That ye may perfect rapture know.
How beats thy heart, when thou dost hear
The chime that warns thy guests to fly!
How glow'st thou for those lips so dear,
That soon are mute, and nought deny!
With her into the holy place
Thou hast'nest then, to perfect all;
The fire the warder's hands embrace,
Grows, like a night-light, dim and small.
How heaves her bosom, and how burns
Her face at every fervent kiss!
Her coldness now to trembling turns,
Thy daring now a duty is.
Love helps thee to undress her fast,
But thou art twice as fast as he;
And then he shuts both eye at last,
With sly and roguish modesty.
When Mardi Gras wooed Pantomime
they danced through all the streets,
the gods, whose Credo was the time
sent fireworks as treats.
As time does not stand still, you see
beauty unlocked the door
allowing spirits to be free
and scribes record the lore.
From New Orleans to Times bright squares
Verona, then to Rome
ignoring gawkers and their stares
so far away from home.
With sequined costumes everywhere
spark-lit harlequinade,
of apple shapes or stately pear
enlivened the charade.
As slapstick played with comedy
Toto digging out yellow road bricks,
and under the rainbow's canopy
there was Lion who juggled his tricks.
*****************************
Paparazzi were shuttled in
lenses clicked at the dropp of a pin.
There was always a crush
for celebrity lush,
cover page means you fight 'til you win.
Many dwarves did attend the event,
Mardi Gras, in a wagon or tent.
Pantomime at the door
for today and for more,
'twas Uranus who claimed love is meant.
Pink chrysanthemums tickling the paws
of Koalas (to flaunt local laws) ,
there was Tarzan who stripped,
a much shorter, tight-lipped
Popeye Sailor, who's singing the Bla's.
Theatre audiences, all were in awe
crowds were screaming, 'Mesdames, nous adore'
came Dionysos too
and the Socrates crew
Cleopatra not wearing a bra.
***********************************
As blue smoke pirouettes to the sky,
and the quivers from Burgundy moan,
there's a lady who flashes her thigh
and a tightrope surrounded by stone.
Gays in gowns then assemble, true Queens,
with their bitches performing as maids
Monkey saw, monkey do dancing scenes
of CanCan in their petticoat shades.
Seven dwarves with Snow White and fresh tears,
Pantomime on a horse of pure white,
dressed in blue are the three musketeers
bearing lanterns to light up the night.
Cinderella threw slippers, she knew,
there would come a young lad to her aid,
not a mermaid she needed her shoe
her two sisters preferred masquerade.
Twas a wedding to beat all events,
as white rabbits tossed roses around,
there was Romeo, near the big tent
little Blueboy asleep on the ground.
There was art, there was craft on the stage
and the witch had brought Haensel to town
and trapezes swung high in a cage,
Big Bad Wolf was dressed up in a gown.
On the banks of the river so blue
Papa bear from the Yellowstone Hills,
little Bambi andSkippy the 'roo,
they were smiling amidst all the frills.
**************************************
When Mardi Gras wooed Pantomime
and led her out the door,
she turned and said: ' I give this rhyme,
myself, and so much more;
I pledge my body and my soul
to you my Mardi Gras
and if you like I shall be whole,
discard my finest bra,
and, like a wedge of Maasdam Cheese
I slip right in between,
to have you kiss my cleavage (please)
outside the mens' latrine.'
**********
So now you've learnt the history
of how these lovers met,
and not a hint of misery
a perfect match was set.
When LOVE itself joins hand to hand
no end will ever come,
and all of us must understand
the music of our drum.
A Co-Production by:
Emancipation Planz
and
Herbert Nehrlich
© 2009
The wide Pacific waters
And the Atlantic meet.
With cries of joy they mingle,
In tides of love they greet.
Above the drowned ages
A wind of wooing blows: —
The red rose woos the lotos,
The lotos woos the rose . . .
The lotos conquered Egypt.
The rose was loved in Rome.
Great India crowned the lotos:
(Britain the rose's home).
Old China crowned the lotos,
They crowned it in Japan.
But Christendom adored the rose
Ere Christendom began . . .
The lotos speaks of slumber:
The rose is as a dart.
The lotos is Nirvana:
The rose is Mary's heart.
The rose is deathless, restless,
The splendor of our pain:
The flush and fire of labor
That builds, not all in vain. . . .
The genius of the lotos
Shall heal earth's too-much fret.
The rose, in blinding glory,
Shall waken Asia yet.
Hail to their loves, ye peoples!
Behold, a world-wind blows,
That aids the ivory lotos
To wed the red red rose!
How special it was as family and friends
Gathered to welcome husband and wife
Happiness was felt by everyone
As they start this precious new life
Pictures taken to collect memories
To pass down for generations to come
You can see by the smiles on faces
Fun and food was enjoyed by everyone
No happier occasion can there be
That brings folks together again
Than a wedding filled with loved ones
With wonderful wedding trends
What a perfect way to start a new life
With a love that is forever true
Congratulations to the bride and groom
We wish only the best to you!
A FEAST was in a village spread,--
It was a wedding-day, they said.
The parlour of the inn I found,
And saw the couples whirling round,
Each lass attended by her lad,
And all seem'd loving, blithe, and glad;
But on my asking for the bride,
A fellow with a stare, replied:
"'Tis not the place that point to raise!
We're only dancing in her honour;
We now have danced three nights and days,
And not bestowed one thought upon her."
Whoe'er in life employs his eyes
Such cases oft will recognise.
i wake up early dawn
to witness the changes in sky
from darkness to morn
for a new bride tonight..
the pain is still here
with sadness and anger
today may be the end
tomorrow is never a fine..
this man who'll be my groom
is as good as Homer
a monster from the north
captured me as his lover..
i never love this man before
but he never let me go
he give me no freedom
only to find..i love him too....
for all those days of confusions
my hours filled with loneliness
all i see is his perfect love
a true love which is always the best...
perhaps it's just a fair
to think that i am a bride to be
morning comes with no illusion
a celebration for wedding anniversary..
and as the ceremony starts
my eyes filled with tears
he is lying in white satin
while everybody stands with me...
today...as we celebrate our anniversary
no other words i can say
i love you so much
'happy silver wedding anniversary'
The wedding:
it must be right
everything must go to plan
be exact to near perfection.
We must hope the weather holds
and sunshine dominates.
We must feed the guests
occupy them with our chat
and false politeness.
We must keep them with a drink
a joke
a dance
it must be right -
the wedding MUST succeed
- regardless if ill-fated marriage
fails.
O marriage-bells, your clamor tells
Two weddings in one breath.
SHE marries whom her love compels:
-- And I wed Goodman Death!
My brain is blank, my tears are red;
Listen, O God: --  "I will," he said: --
And I would that I were dead.
Come groomsman Grief and bridesmaid Pain
Come and stand with a ghastly twain.
My Bridegroom Death is come o'er the meres
To wed a bride with bloody tears.
Ring, ring, O bells, full merrily:
Life-bells to her, death-bells to me:
O Death, I am true wife to thee!
I dance in circles holding
the moth of the marriage,
thin, sticky, fluttering
its skirts, its webs.
The moth oozing a tear,
or is it a drop of urine?
The moth, grinning like a pear,
or is it teeth
clamping the iron maiden shut?
The moth,
who is my mother,
who is my father,
who was my lover,
floats airily out of my hands
and I dance slower,
pulling off the fat diamond engagement ring,
pulling off the elopement wedding ring,
and holding them, clicking them
in thumb and forefinger,
the indent of twenty-five years,
like a tiny rip of a tiny earthquake.
Underneath the soil lies the violence,
the shift, the crack of continents,
the anger,
and above only a cut,
a half-inch space to stick a pencil in.
The finger is scared
but it keeps its long numb place.
And I keep dancing,
a sort of waltz,
clicking the two rings,
all of a life at its last cough,
as I swim through the air of the kitchen,
and the same radio plays its songs
and I make a small path through them
with my bare finger and my funny feet,
doing the undoing dance,
on April 14th, 1973,
letting my history rip itself off me
and stepping into
something unknown
and transparent,
but all ten fingers stretched outward,
flesh extended as metal
waiting for a magnet.
I pawned my sick wife's wedding ring,
To drink and make myself a beast.
I got the most that it would bring,
Of golden coins the very least.
With stealth into her room I crept
And stole it from her as she slept.
I do not think that she will know,
As in its place I left a band
Of brass that has a brighter glow
And gleamed upon her withered hand.
I do not think that she can tell
The change - she does not see too well.
Pray God, she doesn't find me out.
I'd rather far I would be dead.
Yet yesterday she seemed to doubt,
And looking at me long she said:
"My finger must have shrunk, because
My ring seems bigger than it was."
She gazed at it so wistfully,
And one big tear rolled down her cheek.
Said she: "You'll bury it with me . . ."
I was so moved I could not speak.
Oh wretched me! How whisky can
Bring out the devil in a man!"
And yet I know she loves me still,
As on the morn that we were wed;
And darkly guess I also will
Be doomed the day that she is dead.
And yet I swear, before she's gone,
I will retrieve her ring from pawn.
I'll get it though I have to steal,
Then when to ease her bitter pain
They give her sleep oh I will feel
Her hand and slip it on again;
Through tears her wasted face I'll see,
And pray to God: "Oh pity me!"
'Now, while she's changing,' said the Dean,
'Her bridal for her traveling dress,
I'll preach allegiance to your queen!
Preaching's the thing which I profess;
And one more minute's mine! You know
I've paid my girl a father's debt,
And this last charge is all I owe.
She's yours; but I love more than yet
You can; such fondness only wakes
When time has raised the heart above
The prejudice of youth, which makes
Beauty conditional to love.
Prepare to meet the weak alarms
Of novel nearness; recollect
The eye which magnifies her charms
Is microscopic for defect.
Fear comes at first; but soon, rejoiced,
You'll find your strong and tender loves,
Like holy rocks by Druids poised,
The least force shakes, but none removes.
Her strength is your esteem; beware
Of finding fault; her will's unnerved
By blame; from you 'twould be despair;
But praise that is not quite deserved
Will all her noble nature move
To make your utmost wishes true.
Yet think, while mending thus your Love,
Of matching her ideal too!
The death of nuptial joy is sloth;
To keep your mistress in your wife,
Keep to the very height your oath,
And honor her with arduous life.
Lastly, no personal reverence doff.
Life's all externals unto those
Who pluck the blushing petals off,
To find the secret of the rose. -
How long she's tarrying! Green's Hotel
I'm sure you'll like. The charge is fair,
The wines good. I remember well
I stayed once, with her mother, there.
A tender conscience of her vow
That mother had! She's so like her!'
But Mrs. Fife, much flurried, now
Whispered, 'Miss Honor's ready, sir.'
A wedding dress is what I would like,
So to a wedding shop then, I must hike,
To choose a dress, that is my aim,
One that will suit my voluptuous frame.
Now how does one begin to acquire,
Such stylish and suitable attire,
The choice is really overpowering,
Where to start is really quite cowering.
There are satins, chiffons, silks and tulles,
Oh my goodness, how my mouth drools.
So what now am I going to buy,
I suppose each one I'll have to try.
Diamonds sparkle, sequins flash,
Diamante to add a bit of a dash,
Frills and flounces, drapes and folds,
Such a variety my eye beholds.
In colours of so many hues,
Pinks, lemons, lilacs, greens and blues,
Creams and whites for formal brides,
Whatever the choice, the bride decides.
There are strapless tops, and separate skirts,
This dress buying, it really hurts,
There are ones with trains a mile long,
Oh gosh, times flying, I must crack on.
I think I'll have the one that's dreamy,
The one that is so deliciously creamy,
There's lots of ruching and a fake fur stole,
I think this one has hit the 'goal'.
It will well cover up my significant bulges,
An excess of all my too many indulges,
And that makes me happy, so I'm happy to say,
Whatever the price, I'm happy to pay.
So there's the cash, and here's my dress,
I've got it now, so no more stress,
Thank you so much for all your advice,
I'll tell all my friends, you really are nice.
I'll send you a photo when the deed is done,
Before we jet off to the sun.
You've gone and really made my day,
So I wish you good fortune, all the way.
©   Ernestine Northover
The flowering cherries
Flowing and pink,
Blossoms, like snow
Fall to the ground,
Never making a sound.
Like pink confetti,
Their petals are ready.
They must be The Wedding Trees.
I'll get married under one of these.
I, d like to get married
In satin and bows,
As petals fall on my clothes,
And scent touches my nose,
As I tingle at the toes.
So just hold my hand,
And we'll stroll through the land,
Tears roll down my face,
In this Heavenly place,
This is my Wedding day!
Though you know it anyhow
Listen to me, darling, now,
Proving what I need not prove
How I know I love you, love.
Near and far, near and far,
I am happy where you are;
Likewise I have never larnt
How to be it where you aren't.
Far and wide, far and wide,
I can walk with you beside;
Furthermore, I tell you what,
I sit and sulk where you are not.
Visitors remark my frown
Where you're upstairs and I am down,
Yes, and I'm afraid I pout
When I'm indoors and you are out;
But how contentedly I view
Any room containing you.
In fact I care not where you be,
Just as long as it's with me.
In all your absences I glimpse
Fire and flood and trolls and imps.
Is your train a minute slothful?
I goad the stationmaster wrothful.
When with friends to bridge you drive
I never know if you're alive,
And when you linger late in shops
I long to telephone the cops.
Yet how worth the waiting for,
To see you coming through the door.
Somehow, I can be complacent
Never but with you adjacent.
Near and far, near and far,
I am happy where you are;
Likewise I have never larnt
How to be it where you aren't.
Then grudge me not my fond endeavor,
To hold you in my sight forever;
Let none, not even you, disparage
Such a valid reason for a marriage.
To love and a wedding
~
I share in the joy of my friends
While the air is filled with songs
To love, to love and a wedding
Blessed are the lives of friends
I share in their smiles quite often
For their humour is a narcotic
It infiltrates almost every thought
Induces many a joyful memory
In an addictive fashion I realise
The excited talk and anticipation
To love, to love and a wedding
Is something private shared
An intimate union of two
Shared with those close and loved
The glasses raised in celebration
The smiles and the laughter
What joy it has been to share
In the joy of my friends
Who sing of love and the song
To love, to love and a wedding
I leave for thee, beloved one,
The home and friends of youth,
Trusting my hopes, my happiness,
Unto thy love and truth;
I leave for thee my girlhood's joys,
Its sunny, careless mirth,
To bear henceforth my share amid
The many cares of earth.
And yet, no wild regret I give
To all that now I leave,
The golden dreams, the flow'ry wreaths
That I no more may weave;
The future that before me lies
A dark and unknown sea --
Whate'er may be its storms or shoals,
I brave them all with thee!
I will not tell thee now of love
Whose life, ere this, thou'st guessed,
And which, like sacred secret, long
Was treasured in my breast;
Enough that if thy lot be calm,
Or storms should o'er it sweep,
Thou'lt learn that it is woman's love,
Unchanging, pure and deep.
If this life's sunshine gild thy lot,
Bestowing wealth and pride,
Its light enjoying, I shall stand,
Rejoicing, at thy side;
But, oh! if thou should'st prove the griefs
That blight thy fellow-men,
'Twill be my highest, dearest right,
To be, love, with thee then.
And thou, wilt thou not promise me
Thy heart will never change,
That tones and looks, so loving now,
Will ne'er grow stern and strange?
That thou'lt be kind, whatever faults
Or failings may be mine,
And bear with them in patient love,
As I will bear with thine?
To my sister on her wedding day
I am happy to say,
You're love is peur for this man hear,
And he wont throe her love away.
They will be happy,
I know
So i am happy to say it is her wedding day.
Two fluttering hearts
Sunlight gleams on a gold band
A Springtime wedding
JPM 5/14/2008
Wedding bells are ringing in the chapel,
and I’m falling in love again.
I am remembering all the good times,
when we were man and wife.
Remembering all the days before
you left me with this lonely, lonely life.
Now wedding bells are ringing,
out for someone new.
Let’s hope that they don’t follow
the same roads as me and you.
Those roads only lead to heartaches,
each mile along the way,
so let’s hope along those roads they don’t stray.
Wedding bells are ring in the chapel,
only I wish they were for me and you.
Then we would get another chance,
of trying to make our love run true,
learning from all the mistakes
that we made before, and
end with a happy endings sign hanging from our door.
2 August 2007
Wedding bells are ringing in the chapel
that should have been ringing
out for you and me.
Now down the isle you walk
with someone else on your arm
instead of me.
We thought in our love
we had everything
until he came along
and swept you off your feet
taking you from my loving arms.
Now up the isle you go with him
to take your wedding vows
as I stand watching,
just another face in the crowd.
I could say something
but I won’t,
as this is your wedding day.
I shall simply slip into the shadows
and then slowly slip away.
You have a new life before you,
one I hope will bring you joy
as the wedding bells keep ringing
for your wedding day.
24 July 2008
The stars shall shine little longer
tonight, little brighter as well, for they
need to match the spark of her eyes. The
flowers ' fragrance shall have to live
Longer, for the night is still young.
The Music shall have to fill the air, reach
farther, for the hearts have just begun
to move their feet. The nuptial
dance of destiny waits for  the curtain
to be raised. The eyes shall have to
remain awake, for they need to witness
the genesis of a journey, that shall begin
tonight. The wedding ring finds a new
home, It shall enjoy a new freedom out
of the velvet box. The road
needs to convert itself into a runway
for the wishes shall take off and kiss
the clouds with their wings, aiming
for the horizon and nothing less. The
night sky has to create some space
for the eyes are full of stars tonight
The echo of music, shall resonate
till the doors of the dreams open
and welcome the couple  in their home.
* For a friend who is getting married today.
Fire up the sky with rocket sparks!
Release balloons!
Dance after dark!
Science is betrothed to Art!
As witnesses shall ever tell,
no better dressed souls,
from heaven fell!
So Brothers! Sisters! Parents! Friends!
Gather round, your open hearts to lend!
For this, the journey of the lovely Nicola,
and handsome Monsieur Ben!
Light the fuse with music!
Not for moderated heart!
For soon we must this glorious church
depart!
And time on wings begins to fly!
We'll catch its tail, and swing it high!
To ride its great adventure!
On a promise and a prayer!
With our goodwill we too will share!
As Dawn ascends tommorow's sky,
We'll turn our heads and breathe a sigh,
This October day was beautiful!
and we as wondrous ghosts,
Play out this scene,
'a dream,
within
a dream'.
For only when truly happy,
do we see life as it is!
Not this stolen moment!
Or that broken kiss!
For a love revealed will cut through Time!
and Here,
and Now,
and In this Place,
it  is
Sublime!
Nature's beauty bows
when exchanged vows radiate
pure love in their eyes.
Thou God, whose high, eternal Love
Is the only blue sky of our life,
Clear all the Heaven that bends above
The life-road of this man and wife.
May these two lives be but one note
In the world's strange-sounding harmony,
Whose sacred music e'er shall float
Through every discord up to Thee.
As when from separate stars two beams
Unite to form one tender ray:
As when two sweet but shadowy dreams
Explain each other in the day:
So may these two dear hearts one light
Emit, and each interpret each.
Let an angel come and dwell to-night
In this dear double-heart, and teach!
Far from the feasting, in the bedroom
Sits loyal Amor and quakes with dread:
What if the guests become too zestful,
Break the peace of the bridal bed?
A mystical and holy shimmer
Flows from his pale flames of gold;
For you both a whirl of incense
Readies pleasures manifold.
How throbs your heart as chiming timepiece
Chases noisy guests away;
Any moment, lips you burn for
Nought will utter, nought gainsay.
You hasten with her to the temple,
There to consummate your bliss;
The guardian holds aloft his flambeau,
Still and small as a taper is.
How she trembles with your kisses,
Bosom, lips, and cheeks, and brow:
His severities are shivers,
Your derring-do is duty now.
Quick, Amor helps you undress her,
He has half your enterprise;
Roguish, then, but also modest,
He'll be closing both his eyes.
A man follows an alluring woman
From a bookstore rendezvous
Through twisting streets
Of illicit passion;
He enters her house
To gently kiss her neck
In the plain white kitchen
Where she has prepared meals
For life-draining years
For the same unappreciative husband.
He removes her clothes
Slowly in the afternoon,
Dropping her panties in a hallway
Next to her husband’s study;
He tastes her body, the warm sweetness,
Until she achingly moans.
He gazes for a moment at a wedding picture
And then turns it face down;
He makes no promises
Beyond the present adoration
Of her tender body
Currently unused for years
In the confines of her bedroom.
Forbidden lust
Has a magnetic pull;
The biting of shoulders,
Red finger marks left on the flesh
That was firmly pressed,
Her designations of sensual desire,
To be later camouflaged and covered up
By modest clothing and showers discreetly taken
When her husband isn’t present
To hand her a towel.
WEDDING
Alex Brown
UK
21.12.09.
Wedding is:
Believing,
Accepting,
Adjusting,
Bearing,
Harmonizing,
Enduring,
Tolerating,
Sharing,
Symbiosing,
Synchronizing,
Swapping
Smiling,
Weeping
All in togethering
Finally LOVING
Each strips his own skin
Each bares his own constellation
Which has never seen the night
Each fills his skin with rocks
And plays with it
Lit by his own stars
Who doesn't stop till dawn
Who doesn't bat an eyelid or fall
Earns his own skin
(This game is rarely played)
This is your wedding day
and in your eyes
the light of love
is brighter than the stars.
Your heart is full of hope
with all the joyful promise
this all brings.
And the promise will come true,
if you remember this one thing,
Just love each other
as you are,
Don't try to change
this person you found
and learned to love.
Let your love be
the greatest gift
you both receive
and when you do
the love will last through all
as the light that lights
the evening sky.
Love is a wedding ring,
a little band of gold I give to you
under the eyes of heaven
for now and evermore.
Our love can stretch vast distances
whenever we are apart
for within that wedding ring
you hold the essence of my heart.
14 November 2008
My wedding-ring lies in a basket
as if at the bottom of a well.
Nothing will come to fish it back up
and onto my finger again.
&nb sp;       &nbs p;    It lies
among keys to abandoned houses,
nails waiting to be needed and hammered
into some wall,
telephone numbers with no names attached,
idle paperclips.
&nb sp;  It can't be given away
for fear of bringing ill-luck.
&nb sp;  It can't be sold
for the marriage was good in its own
time, though that time is gone.
&nb sp;  Could some artificer
beat into it bright stones, transform it
into a dazzling circlet no one could take
for solemn betrothal or to make promises
living will not let them keep? Change it
into a simple gift I could give in friendship?
THE tale of the Count our glad song shall record
Who had in this castle his dwelling,
Where now ye are feasting the new-married lord,
His grandson of whom we are telling.
The Count as Crusader had blazon'd his fame,
Through many a triumph exalted his name,
And when on his steed to his dwelling he came,
His castle still rear'd its proud head,
But servants and wealth had all fled.
'Tis true that thou, Count, hast return'd to thy home,
But matters are faring there ill.
The winds through the chambers at liberty roam,
And blow through the windows at will
What's best to be done in a cold autumn night?
Full many I've pass'd in more piteous plight;
The morn ever settles the matter aright.
Then quick, while the moon shines so clear,
To bed on the straw, without fear,
And whilst in a soft pleasing slumber he lay,
A motion he feels 'neath his bed.
The rat, an he likes it, may rattle away!
Ay, had he but crumbs there outspread!
But lo! there appears a diminutive wight,
A dwarf 'tis, yet graceful, and bearing a light,
With orator-gestures that notice invite,
At the feet of the Count on the floor
Who sleeps not, though weary full sore.
"We've long been accustom'd to hold here our feast,
Since thou from thy castle first went;
And as we believed thou wert far in the East,
To revel e'en now we were bent.
And if thou'lt allow it, and seek not to chide,
We dwarfs will all banquet with pleasure and pride,
To honour the wealthy, the beautiful bride
Says the Count with a smile, half-asleep;--
"Ye're welcome your quarters to keep!"
Three knights then advance, riding all in a group,
Who under the bed were conceal'd;
And then is a singing and noise-making troop
Of strange little figures reveal'd;
And waggon on waggon with all kinds of things--
The clatter they cause through the ear loudly rings--
The like ne'er was seen save in castles of kings;
At length, in a chariot of gold,
The bride and the guests too, behold!
Then all at full gallop make haste to advance,
Each chooses his place in the hall;
With whirling and waltzing, and light joyous dance,
They begin with their sweethearts the ball.
The fife and the fiddle all merrily sound,
Thy twine, and they glide, and with nimbleness bound,
Thy whisper, and chatter, and, chatter around;
The Count on the scene casts his eye,
And seems in a fever to lie.
They hustle, and bustle, and rattle away
On table, on bench, and on stool;
Then all who had joined in the festival gay
With their partners attempt to grow cool.
The hams and the sausages nimbly they bear,
And meat, fish, and poultry in plenty are there,
Surrounded with wine of the vintage most rare:
And when they have revell'd full long,
They vanish at last with a song.
And if we're to sing all that further occurr'd,
Pray cease ye to bluster and prate;
For what he so gladly in small saw and heard
He enjoy'd and he practis'd in great.
For trumpets, and singing, and shouts without end
On the bridal-train, chariots and horsemen attend,
They come and appear, and they bow and they bend,
In merry and countless array.
Thus was it, thus is it to-day.
Workmen lift high
The beams of the roof,
Hymenæus!
Like Ares from sky
Comes the groom to the bride,
Hymenæus!
Than men who must die
Stands he taller in pride,
Hymenæus!
St. John tells how, at Cana's wedding feast,
The water-pots poured wine in such amount
That by his sober count
There were a hundred gallons at the least.
It made no earthly sense, unless to show
How whatsoever love elects to bless
Brims to a sweet excess
That can without depletion overflow.
Which is to say that what love sees is true;
That this world's fullness is not made but found.
Life hungers to abound
And pour its plenty out for such as you.
Now, if your loves will lend an ear to mine,
I toast you both, good son and dear new daughter.
May you not lack for water,
And may that water smack of Cana's wine.
i will love, cherish, and take care of you
all the days of my life.
for you have consented to be my wife.
i will honor and respect all your
beliefs and thoughts, for which you stood and fought.
you did not let anything distract or sway you
from your beliefs, which gave me a sense of relief.
because if anyone was able to sway you
in your younger years, we would not
find happiness and cheer.
you are strong, just like me
and you captured my heart and set me free.
and now that we are united as one
under the eyes of GOD.
i vow that we will never part.
and this will be the beginning
of our brand new start.
i give you my heart as a token of my love
for JESUS filled it from above.
i searched my whole life through
for a man such as you.
i saw in you all that i desired
and you set my heart on fire.
i see that you are a caring and a non violent man
and praised me when i took a stand.
on all that i believe and feel to be true.
that's the reason i have fallen in love with you.
so on this beautiful day in my life
i consent to be your wife.
1
I understand the boredom of the clerks
fatigue shifting like dunes within their eyes
a frightful nausea gumming up the works
that once was thought aggression in disguise.
Do you remember? then how lightly dead
seemed the moon when over factories
it languid slid like a barrage of lead
above the heart, the fierce inventories
of desire. Now women wander our dreams
carrying money and to our sleep's shame
our hands twitch not for swift blood-sunk triremes
nor languorous white horses nor ill fame,
but clutch the groin that clouds a pallid sky
where tow'rs are sinking in their common eye.
2
My ship is flung upon the gutter's wrist
and cries for help of storm to violate
that flesh your curiosity too late
has flushed. The stem your garter tongue would twist
has sunk upon the waveless bosom's mist,
thigh of the city, apparition, hate,
and the tower whose doves have, delicate,
fled into my blood where they are not kissed.
You have left me to the sewer's meanwhile,
and I have answered the sea's open wish
to love me as a bonfire's watchful hand
guards red the shore and guards the hairy strand,
our most elegant lascivious bile,
my ship sinking beneath the gutter's fish.
3
How can I then, my dearest winter lay,
disgorge the tasty worm that eats me up
falling onto the stem of a highway
whose ardent rainbow is the spoon's flat cup
and in the vilest of blue suited force
enamored of the heated needle's arm
finds the ministrant an own tongue's remorse
so near the blood and still so far from harm,
thus to be eaten up and gobbled down
volcanoes of speedometers, the strike
that heats the iris into flame and flow'rs
the panting chalice so a turning pike:
you are not how the gods refused to die,
and I am scarred forever neath the eye.
4
What are my eyes? if they must feed me, rank
with forgetting, in the jealous forest
of lustrous blows, so luminously blank
through smoke and in the light. All faint, at rest,
yet I am racing towards the fear that kills
them off, friends and lovers, hast'ning through tears
like alcohol high in the throat of hills
and hills of night, alluring! their black cheers
falling upon my ears like nails. And there
the bars grow thick with onanists and camps
and bivouacs of bears with clubs, are fair
with their blows, deal death beneath purple lamps
and to me! I run! closer always move,
crying my name in fields of dead I love.
5
I plunge deep within this frozen lake
whose mirrored fastnesses fill up my heart,
where tears drift from frivolity to art
all white and slobbering, and by mistake
are the sky. I'm no whale to cruise apart
in fields impassive of my stench, my sake,
my sign to crushing seas that fall like fake
pillars to crash! to sow as wake my heart
and don't be niggardly. The snow drifts low
and yet neglects to cover me, and I
dance just ahead to keep my heart in sight.
How like a queen, to seek with jealous eye
the face that flees you, hidden city, white
swan. There's no art to free me, blinded so.
Some day, when trees have shed their leaves
And against the morning's white
The shivering birds beneath the eaves
Have sheltered for the night,
We'll turn our faces southward, love,
Toward the summer isle
Where bamboos spire to shafted grove
And wide-mouthed orchids smile.
And we will seek the quiet hill
Where towers the cotton tree,
And leaps the laughing crystal rill,
And works the droning bee.
And we will build a cottage there
Beside an open glade,
With black-ribbed blue-bells blowing near,
And ferns that never fade.
The truth is dark under your eyelids.
What are you going to do about it?
The birds are silent; there's no one to ask.
All day long you'll squint at the gray sky.
When the wind blows you'll shiver like straw.
A meek little lamb you grew your wool
Till they came after you with huge shears.
Flies hovered over open mouth,
Then they, too, flew off like the leaves,
The bare branches reached after them in vain.
Winter coming. Like the last heroic soldier
Of a defeated army, you'll stay at your post,
Head bared to the first snow flake.
Till a neighbor comes to yell at you,
You're crazier than the weather, Charlie.
All out of doors looked darkly in at him
Through the thin frost, almost in separate stars,
That gathers on the pane in empty rooms.
What kept his eyes from giving back the gaze
Was the lamp tilted near them in his hand.
What kept him from remembering what it was
That brought him to that creaking room was age.
He stood with barrels round him -- at a loss.
And having scared the cellar under him
In clomping there, he scared it once again
In clomping off; -- and scared the outer night,
Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roar
Of trees and crack of branches, common things,
But nothing so like beating on a box.
A light he was to no one but himself
Where now he sat, concerned with he knew what,
A quiet light, and then not even that.
He consigned to the moon, such as she was,
So late-arising, to the broken moon
As better than the sun in any case
For such a charge, his snow upon the roof,
His icicles along the wall to keep;
And slept. The log that shifted with a jolt
Once in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted,
And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept.
One aged man -- one man -- can't keep a house,
A farm, a countryside, or if he can,
It's thus he does it of a winter night.
The half-stripped trees
struck by a wind together,
bending all,
the leaves flutter drily
and refuse to let go
or driven like hail
stream bitterly out to one side
and fall
where the salvias, hard carmine--
like no leaf that ever was--
edge the bare garden.
Oh! dost thou flatter falsely, Hope?
The day hath scarcely passed that saw thy birth,
Yet thy white wings are plumed to all their scope,
And hour by hour thine eyes have gathered light,
And grown so large and bright,
That my whole future life unfolds what seems,
Beneath their gentle beams,
A path that leads athwart some guiltless earth,
To which a star is dropping from the night!
Not many moons ago,
But when these leafless beds were all aglow
With summer's dearest treasures, I
Was reading in this lonely garden-nook;
A July noon was cloudless in the sky,
And soon I put my shallow studies by;
Then, sick at heart, and angered by the book,
Which, in good sooth, was but the long-drawn sigh
Of some one who had quarreled with his kind,
Vexed at the very proofs which I had sought,
And all annoyed while all alert to find
A plausible likeness of my own dark thought,
I cast me down beneath yon oak's wide boughs,
And, shielding with both hands my throbbing brows,
Watched lazily the shadows of my brain.
The feeble tide of peevishness went down,
And left a flat dull waste of dreary pain,
Which seemed to clog the blood in every vein;
The world, of course, put on its darkest frown --
In all its realms I saw no mortal crown
Which did not wound or crush some restless head;
And hope, and will, and motive, all were dead.
So, passive as a stone, I felt too low
To claim a kindred with the humblest flower;
Even that would bare its bosom to a shower,
While I henceforth would take no pains to live,
Nor place myself where I might feel or give
A single impulse whence a wish could grow.
There was a tulip scarce a gossamer's throw
Beyond that platanus.  A little child,
Most dear to me, looked through the fence and smiled
A hint that I should pluck it for her sake.
Ah, me! I trust I was not well awake --
The voice was very sweet,
Yet a faint languor kept me in my seat.
I saw a pouted lip, a toss, and heard
Some low expostulating tones, but stirred
Not even a leaf's length, till the pretty fay,
Wondering, and half abashed at the wild feat,
Climbed the low pales, and laughed my gloom away.
And here again, but led by other powers,
A morning and a golden afternoon,
These happy stars, and yonder setting moon,
Have seen me speed, unreckoned and untasked,
A round of precious hours.
Oh! here, where in that summer noon I basked,
And strove, with logic frailer than the flowers,
To justify a life of sensuous rest,
A question dear as home or heaven was asked,
And without language answered.  I was blest!
Blest with those nameless boons too sweet to trust
Unto the telltale confidence of song.
Love to his own glad self is sometimes coy,
And even thus much doth seem to do him wrong;
While in the fears which chasten mortal joy,
Is one that shuts the lips, lest speech too free,
With the cold touch of hard reality,
Should turn its priceless jewels into dust.
Since that long kiss which closed the morning's talk,
I have not strayed beyond this garden walk.
As yet a vague delight is all I know,
A sense of joy so wild 't is almost pain,
And like a trouble drives me to and fro,
And will not pause to count its own sweet gain.
I am so happy! that is all my thought.
To-morrow I will turn it round and round,
And seek to know its limits and its ground.
To-morrow I will task my heart to learn
The duties which shall spring from such a seed,
And where it must be sown, and how be wrought.
But oh! this reckless bliss is bliss indeed!
And for one day I choose to seal the urn
Wherein is shrined Love's missal and his creed.
Meantime I give my fancy all it craves;
Like him who found the West when first he caught
The light that glittered from the world he sought,
And furled his sails till Dawn should show the land;
While in glad dreams he saw the ambient waves
Go rippling brightly up a golden strand.
Hath there not been a softer breath at play
In the long woodland aisles than often sweeps
At this rough season through their solemn deeps --
A gentle Ariel sent by gentle May,
Who knew it was the morn
On which a hope was born,
To greet the flower e'er it was fully blown,
And nurse it as some lily of her own?
And wherefore, save to grace a happy day,
Did the whole West at blushing sunset glow
With clouds that, floating up in bridal snow,
Passed with the festal eve, rose-crowned, away?
And now, if I may trust my straining sight,
The heavens appear with added stars to-night,
And deeper depths, and more celestial height,
Than hath been reached except in dreams or death.
Hush, sweetest South!  I love thy delicate breath;
But hush! methought I felt an angel's kiss!
Oh! all that lives is happy in my bliss.
That lonely fir, which always seems
As though it locked dark secrets in itself,
Hideth a gentle elf,
Whose wand shall send me soon a frolic troop
Of rainbow visions, and of moonlit dreams.
Can joy be weary, that my eyelids droop?
To-night I shall not seek my curtained nest,
But even here find rest.
Who whispered then?  And what are they that peep
Betwixt the foliage in the tree-top there?
Come, Fairy Shadows! for the morn is near,
When to your sombre pine ye all must creep;
Come, ye wild pilots of the darkness, ere
My spirit sinks into the gulf of Sleep;
Even now it circles round and round the deep --
Appear!  Appear!
It isn't the foe that we fear;
It isn't the bullets that whine;
It isn't the business career
Of a shell, or the bust of a mine;
It isn't the snipers who seek
To nip our young hopes in the bud:
No, it isn't the guns,
And it isn't the Huns --
It's the MUD,
MUD,
MUD.
It isn't the melee we mind.
That often is rather good fun.
It isn't the shrapnel we find
Obtrusive when rained by the ton;
It isn't the bounce of the bombs
That gives us a positive pain:
It's the strafing we get
When the weather is wet --
It's the RAIN,
RAIN,
RAIN.
It isn't because we lack grit
We shrink from the horrors of war.
We don't mind the battle a bit;
In fact that is what we are for;
It isn't the rum-jars and things
Make us wish we were back in the fold:
It's the fingers that freeze
In the boreal breeze --
It's the COLD,
COLD,
COLD.
Oh, the rain, the mud, and the cold,
The cold, the mud, and the rain;
With weather at zero it's hard for a hero
From language that's rude to refrain.
With porridgy muck to the knees,
With sky that's a-pouring a flood,
Sure the worst of our foes
Are the pains and the woes
Of the RAIN,
THE COLD,
AND THE MUD.
After the red leaf and the gold have gone,
Brought down by the wind, then by hammering rain
Bruised and discolored, when October's flame
Goes blue to guttering in the cusp, this land
Sinks deeper into silence, darker into shade.
There is a knowledge in the look of things,
The old hills hunch before the north wind blows.
Now I can see certain simplicities
In the darkening rust and tarnish of the time,
And say over the certain simplicities,
The running water and the standing stone,
The yellow haze of the willow and the black
Smoke of the elm, the silver, silent light
Where suddenly, readying toward nightfall,
The sumac's candelabrum darkly flames.
And I speak to you now with the land's voice,
It is the cold, wild land that says to you
A knowledge glimmers in the sleep of things:
The old hills hunch before the north wind blows.
Three months bade wane and wax the wintering moon
Between two dates of death, while men were fain
Yet of the living light that all too soon
Three months bade wane.
Cold autumn, wan with wrath of wind and rain,
Saw pass a soul sweet as the sovereign tune
That death smote silent when he smote again.
First went my friend, in life's mid light of noon,
Who loved the lord of music:  then the strain
Whence earth was kindled like as heaven in June
Three months bade wane.
A herald soul before its master's flying
Touched by some few moons first the darkling goal
Where shades rose up to greet the shade, espying
A herald soul;
Shades of dead lords of music, who control
Men living by the might of men undying,
With strength of strains that make delight of dole.
The deep dense dust on death's dim threshold lying
Trembled with sense of kindling sound that stole
Through darkness, and the night gave ear, descrying
A herald soul.
One went before, one after, but so fast
They seem gone hence together, from the shore
Whence we now gaze:  yet ere the mightier passed
One went before;
One whose whole heart of love, being set of yore
On that high joy which music lends us, cast
Light round him forth of music's radiant store.
Then went, while earth on winter glared aghast,
The mortal god he worshipped, through the door
Wherethrough so late, his lover to the last,
One went before.
A star had set an hour before the sun
Sank from the skies wherethrough his heart's pulse yet
Thrills audibly:  but few took heed, or none,
A star had set.
All heaven rings back, sonorous with regret,
The deep dirge of the sunset:  how should one
Soft star be missed in all the concourse met?
But, O sweet single heart whose work is done,
Whose songs are silent, how should I forget
That ere the sunset's fiery goal was won
A star had set?
Crisply the bright snow whispered,
Crunching beneath our feet;
Behind us as we walked along the parkway,
Our shadows danced,
Fantastic shapes in vivid blue.
Across the lake the skaters
Flew to and fro,
With sharp turns weaving
A frail invisible net.
In ecstacy the earth
Drank the silver sunlight;
In ecstacy the skaters
Drank the wine of speed;
In ecstacy we laughed
Drinking the wine of love.
Had not the music of our joy
Sounded its highest note?
But no,
For suddenly, with lifted eyes you said,
"Oh look!"
There, on the black bough of a snow flecked maple,
Fearless and gay as our love,
A bluejay cocked his crest!
Oh who can tell the range of joy
Or set the bounds of beauty?
Above the marge of night a star still shines,
And on the frosty hills the sombre pines
Harbor an eerie wind that crooneth low
Over the glimmering wastes of virgin snow.
Through the pale arch of orient the morn
Comes in a milk-white splendor newly-born,
A sword of crimson cuts in twain the gray
Banners of shadow hosts, and lo, the day!
The night's drifts
Pile up below me and behind my back,
Slide down the hill, rise again, and build
Eerie little dunes on the roof of the house.
In the valley below me,
Miles between me and the town of St.-Jeannet,
The road lamps glow.
They are so cold, they might as well be dark.
Trucks and cars
Cough and drone down there between the golden
Coffins of greenhouses, the startled squawk
Of a rooster claws heavily across
A grove, and drowns.
The gumming snarl of some grouchy dog sounds,
And a man bitterly shifts his broken gears.
True night still hangs on,
Mist cluttered with a racket of its own.
Now on the mountainside,
A little way downhill among turning rucks,
A square takes form in the side of a dim wall.
I hear a bucket rattle or something, tinny,
No other stirring behind the dim face
Of the goatherd's house. I imagine
His goats are still sleeping, dreaming
Of the fresh roses
Beyond the walls of the greenhouse below them.
And of lettuce leaves opening in Tunisia.
I turn, and somehow
Impossibly hovering in the air over everything,
The Mediterranean, nearer to the moon
Than this mountain is, Shines. A voice clearly
Tells me to snap out of it. Galway
Mutters out of the house and up the stone stairs
To start the motor. The moon and the stars
Suddenly flicker out, and the whole mountain
Appears, pale as a shell.
Look, the sea has not fallen and broken
Our heads. How can I feel so warm
Here in the dead center of January? I can
Scarcely believe it, and yet I have to, this is
The only life I have. I get up from the stone.
My body mumbles something unseemly
And follows me. Now we are all sitting here strangely
On top of sunlight.
I
The air is silent save where stirs
A bugling breeze among the firs;
The virgin world in white array
Waits for the bridegroom kiss of day;
All heaven blooms rarely in the east
Where skies are silvery and fleeced,
And o'er the orient hills made glad
The morning comes in wonder clad;
Oh, 'tis a time most fit to see
How beautiful the dawn can be!
II
Wide, sparkling fields snow-vestured lie
Beneath a blue, unshadowed sky;
A glistening splendor crowns the woods
And bosky, whistling solitudes;
In hemlock glen and reedy mere
The tang of frost is sharp and clear;
Life hath a jollity and zest,
A poignancy made manifest;
Laughter and courage have their way
At noontide of a winter's day.
III
Faint music rings in wold and dell,
The tinkling of a distant bell,
Where homestead lights with friendly glow
Glimmer across the drifted snow;
Beyond a valley dim and far
Lit by an occidental star,
Tall pines the marge of day beset
Like many a slender minaret,
Whence priest-like winds on crystal air
Summon the reverent world to prayer.
I think you know that this is winter day.
This time last year woodsmoke blew us away.
Frost wrote the poem on tall panes of gray.
That was the morning of the yellow finch,
A dropp of sun upon a garden bench.
Light raised the bird's momentum, inch by inch.
You held your coffee cup up to the sky,
Promised as long as yellow birds could fly,
This anniversary would never die
I hold your words much prettier today.
Though where the bird went, who could ever say?
Memory locks all emptiness away.
All night, all day, in dizzy, downward flight,
Fell the wild-whirling, vague, chaotic snow,
Till every landmark of the earth below,
Trees, moorlands, roads, and each familiar sight
Were blotted out by the bewildering white.
And winds, now shrieking loud, now whimpering low,
Seemed lamentations for the world-old woe
That death must swallow life, and darkness light.
But all at once the rack was blown away,
The snowstorm hushing ended in a sigh;
Then like a flame the crescent moon on high
Leaped forth among the planets; pure as they,
Earth vied in whiteness with the Milky Way:
Herself a star beneath the starry sky.
The winter wind is raving fierce and shrill
And chides with angry moan the frosty skies,
The white stars gaze with sleepless Gorgon eyes
That freeze the earth in terror fixed and still.
We reck not of the wild night's gloom and chill,
Housed from its rage, dear friend; and fancy flies,
Lured by the hand of beckoning memories,
Back to those summer evenings on the hill
Where we together watched the sun go down
Beyond the gold-washed uplands, while his fires
Touched into glittering life the vanes and spires
Piercing the purpling mists that veiled the town.
The wintry night thy voice and eyes beguile,
Till wake the sleeping summers in thy smile.
When biting Boreas, fell and doure,
Sharp shivers thro' the leafless bow'r;
When Phoebus gies a short-liv'd glow'r,
Far south the lift,
Dim-dark'ning thro' the flaky show'r,
Or whirling drift:
Ae night the storm the steeples rocked,
Poor Labour sweet in sleep was locked,
While burns, wi' snawy wreeths upchoked,
Wild-eddying swirl,
Or thro' the mining outlet bocked,
Down headlong hurl.
List'ning, the doors an' winnocks rattle,
I thought me on the ourie cattle,
Or silly sheep, wha bide this brattle
O' winter war,
And thro' the drift, deep-lairing, sprattle,
Beneath a scar.
Ilk happing bird, wee, helpless thing!
That, in the merry months o' spring,
Delighted me to hear thee sing,
What comes o' thee?
Whare wilt thou cow'r thy chittering wing
An' close thy e'e?
Ev'n you on murd'ring errands toil'd,
Lone from your savage homes exil'd,
The blood-stain'd roost, and sheep-cote spoil'd
My heart forgets,
While pityless the tempest wild
Sore on you beats.
My window-pane is starred with frost,
The world is bitter cold to-night,
The moon is cruel, and the wind
Is like a two-edged sword to smite.
God pity all the homeless ones,
The beggars pacing to and fro.
God pity all the poor to-night
Who walk the lamp-lit streets of snow.
My room is like a bit of June,
Warm and close-curtained fold on fold,
But somewhere, like a homeless child,
My heart is crying in the cold.
Who shall declare the joy of the running!
Who shall tell of the pleasures of flight!
Springing and spurning the tufts of wild heather,
Sweeping, wide-winged, through the blue dome of light.
Everything mortal has moments immortal,
Swift and God-gifted, immeasurably bright.
So with the stretch of the white road before me,
Shining snowcrystals rainbowed by the sun,
Fields that are white, stained with long, cool, blue shadows,
Strong with the strength of my horse as we run.
Joy in the touch of the wind and the sunlight!
Joy! With the vigorous earth I am one.
AH! leave the smoke, the wealth, the roar
Of London, leave the bustling street,
For still, by the Sicilian shore,
The murmur of the Muse is sweet.
Still, still, the suns of summer greet
The mountain-grave of Helike,
And shepherds still their songs repeat
Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea.
What though they worship Pan no more
That guarded once the shepherd’s seat,
They chatter of their rustic lore,
They watch the wind among the wheat:
Cicalas chirp, the young lambs bleat,
Where whispers pine to cypress tree;
They count the waves that idly beat,
Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea.
Theocritus! thou canst restore
The pleasant years, and over-fleet;
With thee we live as men of yore,
We rest where running waters meet:
And then we turn unwilling feet
And seek the world—so must it be—
We may not linger in the heat
Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea!
ENVOY
Master,—when rain, and snow, and sleet
And northern winds are wild, to thee
We come, we rest in thy retreat,
Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea!
Around the house the flakes fly faster,
And all the berries now are gone
From holly and cotoneaster
Around the house. The flakes fly!--faster
Shutting indoors that crumb-outcaster
We used to see upon the lawn
Around the house. The flakes fly faster,
And all the berries now are gone!
Blow, blow, thou winter wind
Thou art not so unkind
As man's ingratitude;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Because thou art not seen,
Although thy breath be rude.
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
Most freindship if feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then heigh-ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly.
Freeze, freeze thou bitter sky,
That does not bite so nigh
As benefits forgot:
Though thou the waters warp,
Thy sting is not so sharp
As a friend remembered not.
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then heigh-ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly.
Winter uses all the blues there are.
One shade of blue for water, one for ice,
Another blue for shadows over snow.
The clear or cloudy sky uses blue twice-
Both different blues. And hills row after row
Are colored blue according to how far.
You know the bluejay's double-blur device
Shows best when there are no green leaves to show.
And Sirius is a winterbluegreen star.
So the winter now closed round them
With resistless fury. Scattering
Over all his breath so icy,
He inflamed each wind that blithe
To assail them angrily.
Over them he gave dominion
To his frost-unsharpened tempests;
Down to Timur's council went he,
And with threat'ning voice address'd him:--
"Softly, slowly, wretched being!
Live, the tyrant of injustice;
But shall hearts be scorch'd much longer
By thy flames,--consume before them?
If amongst the evil spirits
Thou art one,--good! I'm another.
Thou a greybeard art--so I am;
Land and men we make to stiffen.
Thou art Mars! And I Saturnus,--
Both are evil-working planets,
When united, horror-fraught.
Thou dost kill the soul, thou freezes
E'en the atmosphere; still colder
Is my breath than thine was ever.
Thy wild armies vex the faithful
With a thousand varying torments;
Well! God grant that I discover
Even worse, before I perish!
And by God, I'll give thee none.
Let God hear what now I tell thee!
Yes, by God! from Death's cold clutches
Nought, O greybeard, shall protect thee,
Not the hearth's broad coalfire's ardour,
Not December's brightest flame."
It is winter in California, and outside
Is like the interior of a florist shop:
A chilled and moisture-laden crop
Of pink camellias lines the path; and what
Rare roses for a banquet or a bride,
So multitudinous that they seem a glut!
A line of snails crosses the golf-green lawn
From the rosebushes to the ivy bed;
An arsenic compound is distributed
For them. The gardener will rake up the shells
And leave in a corner of the patio
The little mound of empty shells, like skulls.
By noon the fog is burnt off by the sun
And the world's immensest sky opens a page
For the exercise of a future age;
Now jet planes draw straight lines, parabolas,
And x's, which the wind, before they're done,
Erases leisurely or pulls to fuzz.
It is winter in the valley of the vine.
The vineyards crucified on stakes suggest
War cemeteries, but the fruit is pressed,
The redwood vats are brimming in the shed,
And on the sidings stand tank cars of wine,
For which bright juice a billion grapes have bled.
And skiers from the snow line driving home
Descend through almond orchards, olive farms.
Fig tree and palm tree - everything that warms
The imagination of the wintertime.
If the walls were older one would think of Rome:
If the land were stonier one would think of Spain.
But this land grows the oldest living things,
Trees that were young when Pharoahs ruled the world,
Trees whose new leaves are only just unfurled.
Beautiful they are not; they oppress the heart
With gigantism and with immortal wings;
And yet one feels the sumptuousness of this dirt.
It is raining in California, a straight rain
Cleaning the heavy oranges on the bough,
Filling the gardens till the gardens flow,
Shining the olives, tiling the gleaming tile,
Waxing the dark camellia leaves more green,
Flooding the daylong valleys like the Nile.
(The moons of December, January
and February were once known by our
forebears respectively as Long Night or
Cold Moon, Wolf or Storm Moon, and Snow Moon)
Cold moons of winter
The wolf and the storm
Ice crystals splinter
The long night is born
Grey shadows lope
Over the snow
Yet still there is hope
Though fires burn low.
[Supposed to be chanted to some rude instrument at a modern fireplace]
Chant we the story now
Tho' in a house we sleep;
Tho' by a hearth of coals
Vigil to-night we keep.
Chant we the story now,
Of the vague love we knew
When I from out the sea
Rose to the feet of you.
Bird from the cliffs you came,
Flew thro' the snow to me,
Facing the icy blast
There by the icy sea.
How did I reach your feet?
Why should I — at the end
Hold out half-frozen hands
Dumbly to you my friend?
Ne'er had I woman seen,
Ne'er had I seen a flame.
There you piled fagots on,
Heat rose — the blast to tame.
There by the cave-door dark,
Comforting me you cried —
Wailed o'er my wounded knee,
Wept for my rock-torn side.
Up from the South I trailed —
Left regions fierce and fair!
Left all the jungle-trees,
Left the red tiger's lair.
Dream led, I scarce knew why,
Into your North I trod —
Ne'er had I known the snow,
Or the frost-blasted sod.
O how the flakes came down!
O how the fire burned high!
Strange thing to see he was,
Thro' his dry twigs would fly,
Creep there awhile and sleep —
Then wake and bark for fight —
Biting if I too near
Came to his eye so bright.
Then with a will you fed
Wood to his hungry tongue.
Then he did leap and sing —
Dancing the clouds among,
Turning the night to noon,
Stinging my eyes with light,
Making the snow retreat,
Making the cave-house bright.
There were dry fagots piled,
Nuts and dry leaves and roots,
Stores there of furs and hides,
Sweet-barks and grains and fruits.
There wrapped in fur we lay,
Half-burned, half-frozen still —
Ne'er will my soul forget
All the night's bitter chill.
We had not learned to speak,
I was to you a strange
Wolfling or wounded fawn,
Lost from his forest-range.
Thirsting for bloody meat,
Out at the dawn we went.
Weighed with our prey at eve,
Home-came we all forespent.
Comrades and hunters tried
Ere we were maid and man —
Not till the spring awoke
Laughter and speech began.
Whining like forest dogs,
Rustling like budding trees,
Bubbling like thawing springs,
Humming like little bees,
Crooning like Maytime tides,
Chattering parrot words,
Crying the panther's cry,
Chirping like mating birds —
Thus, thus, we learned to speak,
Who mid the snows were dumb,
Nor did we learn to kiss
Until the Spring had come.
I love to see the old heath's withered brake
Mingle its crimpled leaves with furze and ling,
While the old heron from the lonely lake
Starts slow and flaps its melancholy wing,
An oddling crow in idle motion swing
On the half-rotten ash-tree's topmost twig,
Beside whose trunk the gypsy makes his bed.
Up flies the bouncing woodcock from the brig
Where a black quagmire quakes beneath the tread;
The fieldfares chatter in the whistling thorn
And for the haw round fields and closen rove,
And coy bumbarrels, twenty in a drove,
Flit down the hedgerows in the frozen plain
And hang on little twigs and start again.
Ok, so I'm sorry.
Isn't that what you wanted to know?
in that case, you win.
I'll send back your pictures and your books,
you can keep the dictionary, some day
you might put it to use.
Assuming you ever want
to look up the definition of
relationship or abandonment.
I'll stop being acrimonious,
I'll stop talking to your sibling.
This year I promise to:
take better care of myself,
to rest more,
to read more,
to write more
and overall, just exist more.
I'll stop blaming you for everything,
though it's all your fault.
I'll accept my own downfalls:
loving you more,
wanting you more,
needing you more.
So, yeah,
I'll send back the pieces of you:
Your voice, the ever present
ringing in my ears.
Your avoidance, my constant worry.
However,
I'm keeping the kiss,
your last letter and the paper cut.
First winter rain--
even the monkey
seems to want a raincoat.
Translated by Robert Hass
How strange to greet, this frosty morn,
In graceful counterfeit of flower,
These children of the meadows, born
Of sunshine and of showers!
How well the conscious wood retains
The pictures of its flower-sown home,
The lights and shades, the purple stains,
And golden hues of bloom!
It was a happy thought to bring
To the dark season's frost and rime
This painted memory of spring,
This dream of summertime.
Our hearts are lighter for its sake,
Our fancy's age renews its youth,
And dim-remembered fictions take
The guise of present truth.
A wizard of the Merrimac, -
So old ancestral legends say, -
Could call green leaf and blossom back
To frosted stem and spray.
The dry logs of the cottage wall,
Beneath his touch, put out their leaves;
The clay-bound swallow, at his call,
Played round the icy eaves.
The settler saw his oaken flail
Take bud, and bloom before his eyes;
From frozen pools he saw the pale
Sweet summer lilies rise.
To their old homes, by man profaned
Came the sad dryads, exiled long,
And through their leafy tongues complained
Of household use and wrong.
The beechen platter sprouted wild,
The pipkin wore its old-time green,
The cradle o'er the sleeping child
Became a leafy screen.
Haply our gentle friend hath met,
While wandering in her sylvan quest,
Haunting his native woodlands yet,
That Druid of the West;
And while the dew on leaf and flower
Glistened in the moonlight clear and still,
Learned the dusk wizard's spell of power,
And caught his trick of skill.
But welcome, be it new or old,
The gift which makes the day more bright,
And paints, upon the ground of cold
And darkness, warmth and light!
Without is neither gold nor green;
Within, for birds, the birch-logs sing;
Yet, summer-like, we sit between
The autumn and the spring.
The one, with bridal blush of rose,
And sweetest breath of woodland balm,
And one whose matron lips unclose
In smiles of saintly calm.
Fill soft and deep, O winter snow!
The sweet azalea's oaken dells,
And hide the banks where roses blow
And swing the azure bells!
O'erlay the amber violet's leaves,
The purple aster's brookside home,
Guard all the flowers her pencil gives
A live beyond their bloom.
And she, when spring comes round again,
By greening slope and singing flood
Shall wander, seeking, not in vain
Her darlings of the wood.
In the glad springtime when leaves were green,
O merrily the throstle sings!
I sought, amid the tangled sheen,
Love whom mine eyes had never seen,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
Between the blossoms red and white,
O merrily the throstle sings!
My love first came into my sight,
O perfect vision of delight,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
The yellow apples glowed like fire,
O merrily the throstle sings!
O Love too great for lip or lyre,
Blown rose of love and of desire,
O the glad dove has golden wings!
But now with snow the tree is grey,
Ah, sadly now the throstle sings!
My love is dead: ah! well-a-day,
See at her silent feet I lay
A dove with broken wings!
Ah, Love! ah, Love! that thou wert slain -
Fond Dove, fond Dove return again!
1     For weeks and weeks the autumn world stood still,
2         Clothed in the shadow of a smoky haze;
3     The fields were dead, the wind had lost its will,
4     And all the lands were hushed by wood and hill,
5         In those grey, withered days.
6     Behind a mist the blear sun rose and set,
7         At night the moon would nestle in a cloud;
8     The fisherman, a ghost, did cast his net;
9     The lake its shores forgot to chafe and fret,
10       And hushed its caverns loud.
11   Far in the smoky woods the birds were mute,
12       Save that from blackened tree a jay would scream,
13   Or far in swamps the lizard's lonesome lute
14   Would pipe in thirst, or by some gnarlèd root
15       The tree-toad trilled his dream.
16   From day to day still hushed the season's mood,
17       The streams stayed in their runnels shrunk and dry;
18   Suns rose aghast by wave and shore and wood,
19   And all the world, with ominous silence, stood
20       In weird expectancy:
21   When one strange night the sun like blood went down,
22       Flooding the heavens in a ruddy hue;
23   Red grew the lake, the sere fields parched and brown,
24   Red grew the marshes where the creeks stole down,
25       But never a wind-breath blew.
26   That night I felt the winter in my veins,
27       A joyous tremor of the icy glow;
28   And woke to hear the north's wild vibrant strains,
29   While far and wide, by withered woods and plains,
30       Fast fell the driving snow.
1670
In Winter in my Room
I came upon a Worm—
Pink, lank and warm—
But as he was a worm
And worms presume
Not quite with him at home—
Secured him by a string
To something neighboring
And went along.
A Trifle afterward
A thing occurred
I'd not believe it if I heard
But state with creeping blood—
A snake with mottles rare
Surveyed my chamber floor
In feature as the worm before
But ringed with power—
The very string with which
I tied him—too
When he was mean and new
That string was there—
I shrank—"How fair you are"!
Propitiation's claw—
"Afraid," he hissed
"Of me"?
"No cordiality"—
He fathomed me—
Then to a Rhythm Slim
Secreted in his Form
As Patterns swim
Projected him.
That time I flew
Both eyes his way
Lest he pursue
Nor ever ceased to run
Till in a distant Town
Towns on from mine
I set me down
This was a dream.
I WHO all the winter through
Cherished other loves than you,
And kept hands with hoary policy in marriage-bed and pew;
Now I know the false and true,
For the earnest sun looks through,
And my old love comes to meet me in the dawning and the dew.
Now the hedged meads renew
Rustic odour, smiling hue,
And the clean air shines and tinkles as the world goes wheeling through;
And my heart springs up anew,
Bright and confident and true,
And my old love comes to meet me in the dawning and the dew.
Now winter nights enlarge
This number of their hours;
And clouds their storms discharge
Upon the airy towers.
Let now the chimneys blaze
And cups o'erflow with wine,
Let well-tuned words amaze
With harmony divine.
Now yellow waxen lights
Shall wait on honey love
While youthful revels, masques, and courtly sights
Sleep's leaden spells remove.
This time doth well dispense
With lovers' long discourse;
Much speech hath some defense,
Though beauty no remorse.
All do not all things well:
Some measures comely tread,
Some knotted riddles tell,
Some poems smoothly read.
The summer hath his joys,
And winter his delights;
Though love and all his pleasures are but toys
They shorten tedious nights.
When first the fiery-mantled sun
His heavenly race begun to run;
Round the earth and ocean blue,
His children four the Seasons flew.
First, in green apparel dancing,
The young Spring smiled with angel grace;
Rosy summer next advancing,
Rushed into her sire's embrace:-
Her blue-haired sire, who bade her keep
For ever nearest to his smile,
On Calpe's olive-shaded steep,
On India's citron-covered isles:
More remote and buxom-brown,
The Queen of vintage bowed before his throne,
A rich pomegranate gemmed her gown,
A ripe sheaf bound her zone.
But howling Winter fled afar,
To hills that prop the polar star,
And lives on deer-borne car to ride
With barren darkness at his side,
Round the shore where loud Lofoden
Whirls to death the roaring whale,
Round the hall where runic Odin
Howls his war-song to the gale;
Save when adown the ravaged globe
He travels on his native storm,
Deflowering Nature's grassy robe,
And trampling on her faded form:-
Till light's returning lord assume
The shaft the drives him to his polar field,
Of power to pierce his raven plume
And crystal-covered shield.
Oh, sire of storms! whose savage ear
The Lapland drum delights to hear,
When frenzy with her blood-shot eye
Implores thy dreadful deity,
Archangel! power of desolation!
Fast descending as thou art,
Say, hath mortal invocation
Spells to touch thy stony heart?
Then, sullen Winter, hear my prayer,
And gently rule the ruined year;
Nor chill the wanders bosom bare,
Nor freeze the wretch's falling tear;-
To shuddering Want's unmantled bed
Thy horror-breathing agues cease to lead,
And gently on the orphan head
Of innocence descend.-
But chiefly spare, O king of clouds!
The sailor on his airy shrouds;
When wrecks and beacons strew the steep,
And specters walk along the deep.
Milder yet thy snowy breezes
Pour on yonder tented shores,
Where the Rhine's broad billow freezes,
Or the Dark-brown Danube roars.
Oh, winds of winter! List ye there
To many a deep and dying groan;
Or start, ye demons of the midnight air,
At shrieks and thunders louder than your own.
Alas! Even unhallowed breath
May spare the victim fallen low;
But man will ask no truce of death,-
No bounds to human woe.
When the light falls on winter evenings
And the river makes no sound in its passing
Behind the house, is silent but for its cold
Flowing, its reeds frozen stiffer than glass
How can one anticipate the dawn, a sudden
Blazing of sunlight thawing the harshest sky?
How can one not remember summer evenings?
Must not the tired heart sink and must not fear
Bite, like an acid, wrinkles in its stone?
Behind drawn curtains, gazing at the fire,
Think how the earth spins dumb and bound
By iron chains of frost through death-still air;
And how in every street the sealed windows
And orange cubes of firelight, how in houses
Cuckoo-clocks imitate the spring, candles are
Suns. Perpetual winter never known,
Families warm their hands and wait, nor
Ever doubt the season's transience.
Summer fading, winter comes--
Frosty mornings, tingling thumbs,
Window robins, winter rooks,
And the picture story-books.
Water now is turned to stone
Nurse and I can walk upon;
Still we find the flowing brooks
In the picture story-books.
All the pretty things put by,
Wait upon the children's eye,
Sheep and shepherds, trees and crooks,
In the picture story-books.
We may see how all things are
Seas and cities, near and far,
And the flying fairies' looks,
In the picture story-books.
How am I to sing your praise,
Happy chimney-corner days,
Sitting safe in nursery nooks,
Reading picture story-books?
Hello Winter, hello flanneled
blanket of clouds, clouds
fueled by more clouds, hello again.
Hello afternoons,
off to the west, that silver
of sunset, rust-colored
and gone too soon.
And night (I admit to a short memory)
you climb back in with chilly fingers
and clocks, and there is no refusal:
ice cracks the water main, the garden hose
stiffens, the bladed leaves of the rhododendron
shine in the fog of a huge moon.
And rain, street lacquer,
oily puddles and spinning rubber,
mist of angels on the head of a pin,
hello,
and snow, upside-down cake of clouds,
white, freon scent, you build
even as you empty the world of texture-
hello to this new relief,
this new solitude now upon us,
upon which we feed.
The city is closing for the night.
Stores draw their blinds one by one,
and it's dark again, save for the dim
infrequent streetlight bending at the neck
like a weighted stem. Years have built
the city in layers: balustrades filled in
with brick, adobe reinforced with steel,
and the rounded arches smoothed
with white cement. Neighborhoods
have changed the burro trails
to streets, bare at night—
no pedestrians, no cars, no dogs.
With daylight, the houses turned galleries
and stores turned restaurants open—
the Navajos wrapped in wool
crowd the Palace of the Governors plaza
to sell their handmade blankets,
silver rings, and necklaces
to travelers who will buy jewelry
as they buy everything—
another charming history for themselves.
The schoolboys still their morning ramble take
To neighboring village school with playing speed,
Loitering with passtime's leisure till they quake,
Oft looking up the wild-geese droves to heed,
Watching the letters which their journeys make;
Or plucking haws on which their fieldfares feed,
And hips and sloes; and on each shallow lake
Making glib slides, where they like shadows go
Till some fresh passtimes in their minds awake.
Then off they start anew and hasty blow
Their numbed and clumpsing fingers till they glow;
Then races with their shadows wildly run
That stride huge giants o'er the shining snow
In the pale splendour of the winter sun.
Now the ice lays its smooth claws on the sill,
The sun looks from the hill
Helmed in his winter casket,
And sweeps his arctic sword across the sky.
The water at the mill
Sounds more hoarse and dull.
The miller's daughter walking by
With frozen fingers soldered to her basket
Seems to be knocking
Upon a hundred leagues of floor
With her light heels, and mocking
Percy and Douglas dead,
And Bruce on his burial bed,
Where he lies white as may
With wars and leprosy,
And all the kings before
This land was kingless,
And all the singers before
This land was songless,
This land that with its dead and living waits the Judgement Day.
But they, the powerless dead,
Listening can hear no more
Than a hard tapping on the floor
A little overhead
Of common heels that do not know
Whence they come or where they go
And are content
With their poor frozen life and shallow banishment.
"Delightful are trees and fields with the outgrowth of new tender-leaves and crops, Lodhra trees are with their blossomy flowers, crops of rice are completely ripened, but now lotuses are on their surcease by far, for the dewdrops are falling... hence, this is the time of pre-winter that drew nigh...
"The busts of flirtatious women that are graced by bosomy bosoms are bedaubed and reddened with the redness of heart-stealing saffrony skincare, called Kashmir kumkum, on which embellished are the white pendants that are in shine with the whiteness of whitish dewdrops, white jasmines, and whitely moon...
"Undecorated are the hiplines of kittenish women with gem-studded golden strings of girdle, nor their lotus like feet that have the brightness of lotuses with jingling anklets, whose jingling is correlative to the clucks of swans, for the cold touch of coldish metal gives cold quivers...
"Unbearable is the touch of metallic circlets on wrists and bicep-lets on upper-arms of the couple of arms of vivacious women, or the touch of new silk cloths on the discoid of their waistline, or fine fabric on their robust breasts...
"The womenfolk are rubbing fragrant wood-turmeric powder on their bodies, and their lotus-like faces are tattooed with erasable tattoos of foliage, and their head-hair is fumigated with the fumes of aloe vera resin, and they are doing all this for merrymaking in an enjoyable lovemaking...
"Thoughgood fortune is bechanced in the happiness of lovemaking, the women of age are with sallowish and whitened faces owing to the strain of lovemaking, and though they want to laugh heartily, they desist from it, noticing very painful lower lips that are bitten with the edges of teeth of their lovers in lovemaking, lest the lip is lengthened, the pain is sharpened...
"On reaching the valleys of bosomy busts of women of age, the winter breeze is attaining their coolant splendidness, but when those bosoms are pressingly hugged by their lovers it is incarcerated there with an unable pain, and that pain is expressed by the Hemanta season, as though it is bewailing for a release of that breeze at least at dawn time, with tear-like dewdrops clinging on to the spires of grass-blades...
"Overspread with abundant rice crops and ornamented with herds of she-deer, and delightfully reverberated by the ruddy geese, with their calls and counter-calls, the complacent corridors of confines are captivating hearts...
"Now the lakes are adorned with fully blossomed black-lotuses, and elaborated with swan-like waterfowls in their excitement, and sheeted with considerably coldish waters that are depurated, thus these lakes are stealing the hearts of men, for men look up to them as the visages of women that are with black-lotus-like hairdo, with swanlike eyes, and whose bodies are cold, wanting a warm hug...
"Oh, dear, the Priyangu plants that give fragrant seeds are ripened by the snow caused coldness, and they are frequently wobbled by the snowy winds, and they now appear like the fragrant and frisky women gone into paleness and wobbliness by their dissociation from their lovers...
"These days the mouths of people are fragranced with the fragrance of liquors made from the essential oils of flowers, and their bodies are fragrant with the same fragrancy by their puffs of suspires, and while lying on beds jointly with their bodies in tight embrace, they are slipping into sleep, entwined with the essence of passion...
"The young and beautiful ladies that are new to their adulthood have bruises and marks of teeth notches on their lips, and even their bosoms are incised with nails of their lovers, thus these marks and incisions clearly indicate that they have enjoyed lovemaking consummately...
"Some woman of age staying in the warmth of tender sun to warm up herself, is holding a mirror and applying cosmetics on her lotus-like face, and while doing so, she is pouting her lips and examining them that are dented with teeth bites of her lover, whose quintessence is guzzled down by her lover in last night...
"One more woman whose body is fatigued by the strain of excessive lovemaking, and who is quiet sleepless last night, and whose eyes are palish like white lotuses, and whose bun is slithered and plaits of head-hair are loosened and hair tousling on her shoulders, bust, and on her bosoms, is tripping into sleep, warmed up by the rays of tender sun...
"Bedraggled are the loose ends of cloudlike blackish head-hair onto the lofty busty bosoms of some other slender-bodied women of age, by which busty weight crouching are their bodies, as slim pearly pendants would crouch onto their bosoms, and they are taking away the circlets of flowers from their hairdos, as those flowers are already utilised and devoid of their heart-pleasing fragrance of yester night, and now they are grooming their hair, afresh...
"On examining her body that is completely enjoyed by her lover, another woman is highly gladdened, and she remade her pleasant lips resplendently with lip-colouring, and on examining her bust with nail scratches, she embarrassedly wore her bodice, and while doing so the pain of friction of bodice with nail-scratches made her eyes to twitch, on which eyes dangling are her dark, delicate, and twitchy hair-curls...
"By the exertion in their long-lasting games of lovemaking other women of age are wearied, and their slim bodies are thrilling at their flanks from bosoms to thighs, thereby those prettily pretty women are applying bodily oils and pastes to take an oil bath, that relieves these tingling sensations...
"Pleasant with many an attribute, stealer of the hearts of women, and at which time the confines of villages are overspread with many an abundant rice-crop on earth, and overlaid is the sky with the garlanded flights of ruddy gees, that which is always with a heart-stealing environ, such as it is, let this season Hemanta, pre-winter, endow comfort to all of you passionate people...
"Oh, dear with best thighs, heart-stealing is this environ with abundantly grown stacks of rice and their cobs, or with sugarcane, and it is reverberated with the screeches of ruddy gees that abide hither and thither... now heightened will be passion, thereby this season will be gladdening for lusty womenfolk, hence listen of this season, called Shishira, the Winter...
"At this time, people enjoy abiding in the medial places of their residences, whose ventilators are blockaded for the passage of chilly air, and at fireplaces, in sunrays, with heavy clothing, and along with mature women of age, for they too will be passionately steamy...
"Presently, not the sandal-paste, which will be coolant like moonbeams of moon, nor the building tops, that were once rendered pleasant with the immaculate moonshine, nor the breezes, that are chilled by dense sleet... any of them is delightful for the people...
"The nights are unenjoyable for the people, for they are chilled with the huddles of snow, and further chilled by moonbeams of the moon, besides, these nights are ornamented very whitish clusters of cluttered and lacklustre stars...
"On taking betel leaves and their enclosing material like lime and areca-nut parings, and other fragrant material for chewing, and even handling body creams and tassels of flowers, for it is cool to wear them on, and with their lotus-like faces that are fragranced with delightful recreational drinks, the women are enthusiastically entering their bedchambers, that are desirably fragranced with the fumigation of aloe vera resin...
"On entering bedchambers seen are the irritant husbands irritating for the arrival of their wives, but once these husbands were at fault and they were daunted repeatedly earlier, hence they are now wavery, for their hearts are ciphered by their hesitation, and on looking at such husbands, who are now longing for lovemaking, the lustful women are overlooking their faults, lest time and opportunity fritters away... thus this season unites couples, though they are at loggerheads...
"The women that are new to adulthood are relentlessly gratified for a long time in longish nights, by young men who are muchly impassioned and lusting for their women, thus these young women after the end of night are moving about sluggishly in the morning, with their aching busts that are strained during last night's escapade...
"The womenfolk's breasts are tightly bound by breast-bands thus they are squeezy, and on them the upper fringe of their colourful silk wraparound is wrapped, and such busts are ornamented, and in their hairdo interposed are flowers, thus those women are delightful and it appears that they themselves are embellishing the wintry season as its ornaments...
"Nowadays the chests of lustful men are ocherish for they are rubbed against bosoms of their flirtatious women, whose busts are adorned with vermilion coloured skincare, and which young women are befitting for a comfortable close self-indulgence, for they are new to adulthood, and have warmish bosoms, and the men are sleeping while overly pressing the bosoms of their ladyloves against their own, thus the men are brazening out the chilling coldness of winter, and thus the women of age have an edge on the frostiness of this season...
"In nights the gladdened women of age, desirous of lovemaking are consuming best, heart-stealing, excitant, and stimulant hard drinks along with their lovers, in which drinks lotus petal are placed for fragrance, and which lotus petals are undulated by the richly scented lusty suspirations of those women...
"In the morning, one woman on getting rid of her penchant of passion, examined her own body, and observed that her nipples are subdued by her lover's embrace, and thus concluding that her body is completely enjoyed by her lover, she is going out of the bedchamber to another chamber, laughingly ...
"At dawn, another charmingly delightful and attractive woman, whose rumps are heavy and whose waistline is slender, on joggling the ends of her slithered hair plaits from which discarded are the circlets of flowers, that adorned her bun last night but now withered, and on furling up that hair which is fragrant, for it was fumigated with the resin of aloe vera during last night, is leaving the bed...
"With their discoid faces that look like golden lotuses, cleansed just with water, and with their wide and medially whitish eyes, whose edges touch the edges of ears, and with their just cleansed hair dangling and clasping their shoulders, those women of age are snugly in the heart of their houses in these days, and they appear to be many a personified prosperity, Goddess Lakshmi-s, amidst Her golden lotuses...
"Other women of age, uneasy with the weight of their beamy behinds, a little bent down at waist by the weight of their breasts, which weight of breasts and behinds is making them to walk slowly and slowly, but they are quickly disrobing themselves of their night-time and love-time getups, and enrobing themselves with the getups befitting for daytime...
"On observing the areas of their bosoms that are puckered at their tops with edges of nails of their lovers during last night, and while touching the teeth-cracked tender-leaf like lower lips with their tongues, those women of age are rejoicing, for all this is according to their sought-after delectation, thus they are applying makeup on their faces, at the dawn time of the sun, that rejoicingly...
"In this season, abundant are the new sugar-candies and their modified sweetmeats, new rice is relishable, juice of new sugar-cane is delightful, intensified will be the disport of lovemaking, for the self-conceit of Love-god occasions anew, but this season alone will be the cause for scorching the hearts of those that are devoid of their loved ones, and thus let this winter season be always there for your propitiousness...
To the Memory of the Household It Describes
This Poem is Dedicated by the Author:
"As the Spirits of Darkness be stronger in the dark, so Good Spirits,which be Angels of Light, are augmented not only by the Divine lightof the Sun, but also by our common Wood Fire: and as the CelestialFire drives away dark spirits, so also this our Fire of Wood doth thesame." -- Cor. Agrippa, Occult Philosophy,
Book I.ch. v.
"Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,
Arrives the snow, and, driving o'er the fields,
Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air
Hides hills and woods, the river and the heaven,
And veils the farm-house at the garden's end.
The sled and traveller stopped, the courier's feet
Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit
Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed
In a tumultuous privacy of Storm."     EMERSON, The Snow Storm.
The sun that brief December day
Rose cheerless over hills of gray,
And, darkly circled, gave at noon
A sadder light than waning moon.
Slow tracing down the thickening sky
Its mute and ominous prophecy,
A portent seeming less than threat,
It sank from sight before it set.
A chill no coat, however stout,
Of homespun stuff could quite shut out,
A hard, dull bitterness of cold,
That checked, mid-vein, the circling race
Of life-blood in the sharpened face,
The coming of the snow-storm told.
The wind blew east; we heard the roar
Of Ocean on his wintry shore,
And felt the strong pulse throbbing there
Beat with low rhythm our inland air.
Meanwhile we did our nightly chores, --
Brought in the wood from out of doors,
Littered the stalls, and from the mows
Raked down the herd's-grass for the cows;
Heard the horse whinnying for his corn;
And, sharply clashing horn on horn,
Impatient down the stanchion rows
The cattle shake their walnut bows;
While, peering from his early perch
Upon the scaffold's pole of birch,
The cock his crested helmet bent
And down his querulous challenge sent.
Unwarmed by any sunset light
The gray day darkened into night,
A night made hoary with the swarm
And whirl-dance of the blinding storm,
As zigzag, wavering to and fro,
Crossed and recrossed the wingëd snow:
And ere the early bedtime came
The white drift piled the window-frame,
And through the glass the clothes-line posts
Looked in like tall and sheeted ghosts.
So all night long the storm roared on:
The morning broke without a sun;
In tiny spherule traced with lines
Of Nature's geometric signs,
In starry flake, and pellicle,
All day the hoary meteor fell;
And, when the second morning shone,
We looked upon a world unknown,
On nothing we could call our own.
Around the glistening wonder bent
The blue walls of the firmament,
No cloud above, no earth below, --
A universe of sky and snow!
The old familiar sights of ours
Took marvellous shapes; strange domes and towers
Rose up where sty or corn-crib stood,
Or garden-wall, or belt of wood;
A smooth white mound the brush-pile showed,
A fenceless drift what once was road;
The bridle-post an old man sat
With loose-flung coat and high cocked hat;
The well-curb had a Chinese roof;
And even the long sweep, high aloof,
In its slant spendor, seemed to tell
Of Pisa's leaning miracle.
A prompt, decisive man, no breath
Our father wasted: "Boys, a path!"
Well pleased, (for when did farmer boy
Count such a summons less than joy?)
Our buskins on our feet we drew;
With mittened hands, and caps drawn low,
To guard our necks and ears from snow,
We cut the solid whiteness through.
And, where the drift was deepest, made
A tunnel walled and overlaid
With dazzling crystal: we had read
Of rare Aladdin's wondrous cave,
And to our own his name we gave,
With many a wish the luck were ours
To test his lamp's supernal powers.
We reached the barn with merry din,
And roused the prisoned brutes within.
The old horse thrust his long head out,
And grave with wonder gazed about;
The cock his lusty greeting said,
And forth his speckled harem led;
The oxen lashed their tails, and hooked,
And mild reproach of hunger looked;
The hornëd patriarch of the sheep,
Like Egypt's Amun roused from sleep,
Shook his sage head with gesture mute,
And emphasized with stamp of foot.
All day the gusty north-wind bore
The loosening drift its breath before;
Low circling round its southern zone,
The sun through dazzling snow-mist shone.
No church-bell lent its Christian tone
To the savage air, no social smoke
Curled over woods of snow-hung oak.
A solitude made more intense
By dreary-voicëd elements,
The shrieking of the mindless wind,
The moaning tree-boughs swaying blind,
And on the glass the unmeaning beat
Of ghostly finger-tips of sleet.
Beyond the circle of our hearth
No welcome sound of toil or mirth
Unbound the spell, and testified
Of human life and thought outside.
We minded that the sharpest ear
The buried brooklet could not hear,
The music of whose liquid lip
Had been to us companionship,
And, in our lonely life, had grown
To have an almost human tone.
As night drew on, and, from the crest
Of wooded knolls that ridged the west,
The sun, a snow-blown traveller, sank
From sight beneath the smothering bank,
We piled, with care, our nightly stack
Of wood against the chimney-back, --
The oaken log, green, huge, and thick,
And on its top the stout back-stick;
The knotty forestick laid apart,
And filled between with curious art
The ragged brush; then, hovering near,
We watched the first red blaze appear,
Heard the sharp crackle, caught the gleam
On whitewashed wall and sagging beam,
Until the old, rude-furnished room
Burst, flower-like, into rosy bloom;
While radiant with a mimic flame
Outside the sparkling drift became,
And through the bare-boughed lilac-tree
Our own warm hearth seemed blazing free.
The crane and pendent trammels showed,
The Turks' heads on the andirons glowed;
While childish fancy, prompt to tell
The meaning of the miracle,
Whispered the old rhyme: "Under the tree,
When fire outdoors burns merrily,
There the witches are making tea."
The moon above the eastern wood
Shone at its full; the hill-range stood
Transfigured in the silver flood,
Its blown snows flashing cold and keen,
Dead white, save where some sharp ravine
Took shadow, or the sombre green
Of hemlocks turned to pitchy black
Against the whiteness at their back.
For such a world and such a night
Most fitting that unwarming light,
Which only seemed where'er it fell
To make the coldness visible.
Shut in from all the world without,
We sat the clean-winged hearth about,
Content to let the north-wind roar
In baffled rage at pane and door,
While the red logs before us beat
The frost-line back with tropic heat;
And ever, when a louder blast
Shook beam and rafter as it passed,
The merrier up its roaring draught
The great throat of the chimney laughed;
The house-dog on his paws outspread
Laid to the fire his drowsy head,
The cat's dark silhouette on the wall
A couchant tiger's seemed to fall;
And, for the winter fireside meet,
Between the andirons' straddling feet,
The mug of cider simmered slow,
The apples sputtered in a row,
And, close at hand, the basket stood
With nuts from brown October's wood.
What matter how the night behaved?
What matter how the north-wind raved?
Blow high, blow low, not all its snow
Could quench our hearth-fire's ruddy glow.
O Time and Change! -- with hair as gray
As was my sire's that winter day,
How strange it seems, with so much gone
Of life and love, to still live on!
Ah, brother! only I and thou
Are left of all that circle now, --
The dear home faces whereupon
That fitful firelight paled and shone.
Henceforward, listen as we will,
The voices of that hearth are still;
Look where we may, the wide earth o'er,
Those lighted faces smile no more.
We tread the paths their feet have worn,
We sit beneath their orchard trees,
We hear, like them, the hum of bees
And rustle of the bladed corn;
We turn the pages that they read,
Their written words we linger o'er,
But in the sun they cast no shade,
No voice is heard, no sign is made,
No step is on the conscious floor!
Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust,
(Since He who knows our need is just,)
That somehow, somewhere, meet we must.
Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through his cypress-trees!
Who, hopeless, lays his dead away,
Nor looks to see the breaking day
Across the mournful marbles play!
Who hath not learned, in hours of faith,
The truth to flesh and sense unknown,
That Life is ever lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its own!
We sped the time with stories old,
Wrought puzzles out, and riddles told,
Or stammered from our school-book lore
"The Chief of Gambia's golden shore."
How often since, when all the land
Was clay in Slavery's shaping hand,
As if a far-blown trumpet stirred
The languorous sin-sick air, I heard:
"Does not the voice of reason cry,
Claim the first right which Nature gave,
From the red scourge of bondage to fly,
Nor deign to live a burdened slave!"
Our father rode again his ride
On Memphremagog's wooded side;
Sat down again to moose and samp
In trapper's hut and Indian camp;
Lived o'er the old idyllic ease
Beneath St. François' hemlock-trees;
Again for him the moonlight shone
On Norman cap and bodiced zone;
Again he heard the violin play
Which led the village dance away.
And mingled in its merry whirl
The grandam and the laughing girl.
Or, nearer home, our steps he led
Where Salisbury's level marshes spread
Mile-wide as flies the laden bee;
Where merry mowers, hale and strong,
Swept, scythe on scythe, their swaths along
The low green prairies of the sea.
We shared the fishing off Boar's Head,
And round the rocky Isles of Shoals
The hake-broil on the drift-wood coals;
The chowder on the sand-beach made,
Dipped by the hungry, steaming hot,
With spoons of clam-shell from the pot.
We heard the tales of witchcraft old,
And dream and sign and marvel told
To sleepy listeners as they lay
Stretched idly on the salted hay,
Adrift along the winding shores,
When favoring breezes deigned to blow
The square sail of the gundelow
And idle lay the useless oars.
Our mother, while she turned her wheel
Or run the new-knit stocking-heel,
Told how the Indian hordes came down
At midnight on Concheco town,
And how her own great-uncle bore
His cruel scalp-mark to fourscore.
Recalling, in her fitting phrase,
So rich and picturesque and free
(The common unrhymed poetry
Of simple life and country ways,)
The story of her early days, --
She made us welcome to her home;
Old hearths grew wide to give us room;
We stole with her a frightened look
At the gray wizard's conjuring-book,
The fame whereof went far and wide
Through all the simple country side;
We heard the hawks at twilight play,
The boat-horn on Piscataqua,
The loon's weird laughter far away;
We fished her little trout-brook, knew
What flowers in wood and meadow grew,
What sunny hillsides autumn-brown
She climbed to shake the ripe nuts down,
Saw where in sheltered cove and bay,
The ducks' black squadron anchored lay,
And heard the wild-geese calling loud
Beneath the gray November cloud.
Then, haply, with a look more grave,
And soberer tone, some tale she gave
From painful Sewel's ancient tome,
Beloved in every Quaker home,
Of faith fire-winged by martyrdom,
Or Chalkley's Journal, old and quaint, --
Gentlest of skippers, rare sea-saint! --
Who, when the dreary calms prevailed,
And water-butt and bread-cask failed,
And cruel, hungry eyes pursued
His portly presence mad for food,
With dark hints muttered under breath
Of casting lots for life or death,
Offered, if Heaven withheld supplies,
To be himself the sacrifice.
Then, suddenly, as if to save
The good man from his living grave,
A ripple on the water grew,
A school of porpoise flashed in view.
"Take, eat," he said, "and be content;
These fishes in my stead are sent
By Him who gave the tangled ram
To spare the child of Abraham."
Our uncle, innocent of books,
Was rich in lore of fields and brooks,
The ancient teachers never dumb
Of Nature's unhoused lyceum.
In moons and tides and weather wise,
He read the clouds as prophecies,
And foul or fair could well divine,
By many an occult hint and sign,
Holding the cunning-warded keys
To all the woodcraft mysteries;
Himself to Nature's heart so near
That all her voices in his ear
Of beast or bird had meanings clear,
Like Apollonius of old,
Who knew the tales the sparrows told,
Or Hermes, who interpreted
What the sage cranes of Nilus said;
A simple, guileless, childlike man,
Content to live where life began;
Strong only on his native grounds,
The little world of sights and sounds
Whose girdle was the parish bounds,
Whereof his fondly partial pride
The common features magnified,
As Surrey hills to mountains grew
In White of Selborne's loving view, --
He told how teal and loon he shot,
And how the eagle's eggs he got,
The feats on pond and river done,
The prodigies of rod and gun;
Till, warming with the tales he told,
Forgotten was the outside cold,
The bitter wind unheeded blew,
From ripening corn the pigeons flew,
The partridge drummed i' the wood, the mink
Went fishing down the river-brink.
In fields with bean or clover gray,
The woodchuck, like a hermit gray,
Peered from the doorway of his cell;
The muskrat plied the mason's trade,
And tier by tier his mud-walls laid;
And from the shagbark overhead
The grizzled squirrel dropped his shell.
Next, the dear aunt, whose smile of cheer
And voice in dreams I see and hear, --
The sweetest woman ever Fate
Perverse denied a household mate,
Who, lonely, homeless, not the less
Found peace in love's unselfishness,
And welcome wheresoe'er she went,
A calm and gracious element,
Whose presence seemed the sweet income
And womanly atmosphere of home, --
Called up her girlhood memories,
The huskings and the apple-bees,
The sleigh-rides and the summer sails,
Weaving through all the poor details
And homespun warp of circumstance
A golden woof-thread of romance.
For well she kept her genial mood
And simple faith of maidenhood;
Before her still a cloud-land lay,
The mirage loomed across her way;
The morning dew, that dries so soon
With others, glistened at her noon;
Through years of toil and soil and care,
From glossy tress to thin gray hair,
All unprofaned she held apart
The virgin fancies of the heart.
Be shame to him of woman born
Who hath for such but thought of scorn.
There, too, our elder sister plied
Her evening task the stand beside;
A full, rich nature, free to trust,
Truthful and almost sternly just,
Impulsive, earnest, prompt to act,
And make her generous thought a fact,
Keeping with many a light disguise
The secret of self-sacrifice.
O heart sore-tried! thou hast the best
That Heaven itself could give thee, -- rest,
Rest from all bitter thoughts and things!
How many a poor one's blessing went
With thee beneath the low green tent
Whose curtain never outward swings!
As one who held herself a part
Of all she saw, and let her heart
Against the household bosom lean,
Upon the motley-braided mat
Our youngest and our dearest sat,
Lifting her large, sweet, asking eyes,
Now bathed in the unfading green
And holy peace of Paradise.
Oh, looking from some heavenly hill,
Or from the shade of saintly palms,
Or silver reach of river calms,
Do those large eyes behold me still?
With me one little year ago: --
The chill weight of the winter snow
For months upon her grave has lain;
And now, when summer south-winds blow
And brier and harebell bloom again,
I tread the pleasant paths we trod,
I see the violet-sprinkled sod
Whereon she leaned, too frail and weak
The hillside flowers she loved to seek,
Yet following me where'er I went
With dark eyes full of love's content.
The birds are glad; the brier-rose fills
The air with sweetness; all the hills
Stretch green to June's unclouded sky;
But still I wait with ear and eye
For something gone which should be nigh,
A loss in all familiar things,
In flower that blooms, and bird that sings.
And yet, dear heart! remembering thee,
Am I not richer than of old?
Safe in thy immortality,
What change can reach the wealth I hold?
What chance can mar the pearl and gold
Thy love hath left in trust with me?
And while in life's late afternoon,
Where cool and long the shadows grow,
I walk to meet the night that soon
Shall shape and shadow overflow,
I cannot feel that thou art far,
Since near at need the angels are;
And when the sunset gates unbar,
Shall I not see thee waiting stand,
And, white against the evening star,
The welcome of thy beckoning hand?
Brisk wielder of the birch and rule,
The master of the district school
Held at the fire his favored place,
Its warm glow lit a laughing face
Fresh-hued and fair, where scarce appeared
The uncertain prophecy of beard.
He teased the mitten-blinded cat,
Played cross-pins on my uncle's hat,
Sang songs, and told us what befalls
In classic Dartmouth's college halls.
Born the wild Northern hills among,
From whence his yeoman father wrung
By patient toil subsistence scant,
Not competence and yet not want,
He early gained the power to pay
His cheerful, self-reliant way;
Could doff at ease his scholar's gown
To peddle wares from town to town;
Or through the long vacation's reach
In lonely lowland districts teach,
Where all the droll experience found
At stranger hearths in boarding round,
The moonlit skater's keen delight,
The sleigh-drive through the frosty night,
The rustic party, with its rough
Accompaniment of blind-man's-buff,
And whirling-plate, and forfeits paid,
His winter task a pastime made.
Happy the snow-locked homes wherein
He tuned his merry violin,
Or played the athlete in the barn,
Or held the good dame's winding-yarn,
Or mirth-provoking versions told
Of classic legends rare and old,
Wherein the scenes of Greece and Rome
Had all the commonplace of home,
And little seemed at best the odds
'Twixt Yankee pedlers and old gods;
Where Pindus-born Arachthus took
The guise of any grist-mill brook,
And dread Olympus at his will
Became a huckleberry hill.
A careless boy that night he seemed;
But at his desk he had the look
And air of one who wisely schemed,
And hostage from the future took
In trainëd thought and lore of book.
Large-brained, clear-eyed, of such as he
Shall Freedom's young apostles be,
Who, following in War's bloody trail,
Shall every lingering wrong assail;
All chains from limb and spirit strike,
Uplift the black and white alike;
Scatter before their swift advance
The darkness and the ignorance,
The pride, the lust, the squalid sloth,
Which nurtured Treason's monstrous growth,
Made murder pastime, and the hell
Of prison-torture possible;
The cruel lie of caste refute,
Old forms remould, and substitute
For Slavery's lash the freeman's will,
For blind routine, wise-handed skill;
A school-house plant on every hill,
Stretching in radiate nerve-lines thence
The quick wires of intelligence;
Till North and South together brought
Shall own the same electric thought,
In peace a common flag salute,
And, side by side in labor's free
And unresentful rivalry,
Harvest the fields wherein they fought.
Another guest that winter night
Flashed back from lustrous eyes the light.
Unmarked by time, and yet not young,
The honeyed music of her tongue
And words of meekness scarcely told
A nature passionate and bold,
Strong, self-concentred, spurning guide,
Its milder features dwarfed beside
Her unbent will's majestic pride.
She sat among us, at the best,
A not unfeared, half-welcome guest,
Rebuking with her cultured phrase
Our homeliness of words and ways.
A certain pard-like, treacherous grace
Swayed the lithe limbs and drooped the lash,
Lent the white teeth their dazzling flash;
And under low brows, black with night,
Rayed out at times a dangerous light;
The sharp heat-lightnings of her face
Presaging ill to him whom Fate
Condemned to share her love or hate.
A woman tropical, intense
In thought and act, in soul and sense,
She blended in a like degree
The vixen and the devotee,
Revealing with each freak or feint
The temper of Petruchio's Kate,
The raptures of Siena's saint.
Her tapering hand and rounded wrist
Had facile power to form a fist;
The warm, dark languish of her eyes
Was never safe from wrath's surprise.
Brows saintly calm and lips devout
Knew every change of scowl and pout;
And the sweet voice had notes more high
And shrill for social battle-cry.
Since then what old cathedral town
Has missed her pilgrim staff and gown,
What convent-gate has held its lock
Against the challenge of her knock!
Through Smyrna's plague-hushed thoroughfares,
Up sea-set Malta's rocky stairs,
Gray olive slopes of hills that hem
Thy tombs and shrines, Jerusalem,
Or startling on her desert throne
The crazy Queen of Lebanon
With claims fantastic as her own,
Her tireless feet have held their way;
And still, unrestful, bowed, and gray,
She watches under Eastern skies,
With hope each day renewed and fresh,
The Lord's quick coming in the flesh,
Whereof she dreams and prophesies!
Where'er her troubled path may be,
The Lord's sweet pity with her go!
The outward wayward life we see,
The hidden springs we may not know.
Nor is it given us to discern
What threads the fatal sisters spun,
Through what ancestral years has run
The sorrow with the woman born,
What forged her cruel chain of moods,
What set her feet in solitudes,
And held the love within her mute,
What mingled madness in the blood,
A life-long discord and annoy,
Water of tears with oil of joy,
And hid within the folded bud
Perversities of flower and fruit.
It is not ours to separate
The tangled skein of will and fate,
To show what metes and bounds should stand
Upon the soul's debatable land,
And between choice and Providence
Divide the circle of events;
But He who knows our frame is just,
Merciful and compassionate,
And full of sweet assurances
And hope for all the language is,
That He remembereth we are dust!
At last the great logs, crumbling low,
Sent out a dull and duller glow,
The bull's-eye watch that hung in view,
Ticking its weary circuit through,
Pointed with mutely warning sign
Its black hand to the hour of nine.
That sign the pleasant circle broke:
My uncle ceased his pipe to smoke,
Knocked from its bowl the refuse gray,
And laid it tenderly away;
Then roused himself to safely cover
The dull red brands with ashes over.
And while, with care, our mother laid
The work aside, her steps she stayed
One moment, seeking to express
Her grateful sense of happiness
For food and shelter, warmth and health,
And love's contentment more than wealth,
With simple wishes (not the weak,
Vain prayers which no fulfilment seek,
But such as warm the generous heart,
O'er-prompt to do with Heaven its part)
That none might lack, that bitter night,
For bread and clothing, warmth and light.
Within our beds awhile we heard
The wind that round the gables roared,
With now and then a ruder shock,
Which made our very bedsteads rock.
We heard the loosened clapboards tost,
The board-nails snapping in the frost;
And on us, through the unplastered wall,
Felt the light sifted snow-flakes fall.
But sleep stole on, as sleep will do
When hearts are light and life is new;
Faint and more faint the murmurs grew,
Till in the summer-land of dreams
They softened to the sound of streams,
Low stir of leaves, and dip of oars,
And lapsing waves on quiet shores.
Next morn we wakened with the shout
Of merry voices high and clear;
And saw the teamsters drawing near
To break the drifted highways out.
Down the long hillside treading slow
We saw the half-buried oxen go,
Shaking the snow from heads uptost,
Their straining nostrils white with frost.
Before our door the straggling train
Drew up, an added team to gain.
The elders threshed their hands a-cold,
Passed, with the cider-mug, their jokes
From lip to lip; the younger folks
Down the loose snow-banks, wrestling, rolled,
Then toiled again the cavalcade
O'er windy hill, through clogged ravine,
And woodland paths that wound between
Low drooping pine-boughs winter-weighed.
From every barn a team afoot,
At every house a new recruit,
Where, drawn by Nature's subtlest law,
Haply the watchful young men saw
Sweet doorway pictures of the curls
And curious eyes of merry girls,
Lifting their hands in mock defence
Against the snow-ball's compliments,
And reading in each missive tost
The charm with Eden never lost.
We heard once more the sleigh-bells' sound;
And, following where the teamsters led,
The wise old Doctor went his round,
Just pausing at our door to say,
In the brief autocratic way
Of one who, prompt at Duty's call,
Was free to urge her claim on all,
That some poor neighbor sick abed
At night our mother's aid would need.
For, one in generous thought and deed,
What mattered in the sufferer's sight
The Quaker matron's inward light,
The Doctor's mail of Calvin's creed?
All hearts confess the saints elect
Who, twain in faith, in love agree,
And melt not in an acid sect
The Christian pearl of charity!
So days went on: a week had passed
Since the great world was heard from last.
The Almanac we studied o'er,
Read and reread our little store
Of books and pamphlets, scarce a score;
One harmless novel, mostly hid
From younger eyes, a book forbid,
And poetry, (or good or bad,
A single book was all we had,)
Where Ellwood's meek, drab-skirted Muse,
A stranger to the heathen Nine,
Sang, with a somewhat nasal whine,
The wars of David and the Jews.
At last the floundering carrier bore
The village paper to our door.
Lo! broadening outward as we read,
To warmer zones the horizon spread
In panoramic length unrolled
We saw the marvels that it told.
Before us passed the painted Creeks,
And daft McGregor on his raids
In Costa Rica's everglades.
And up Taygetos winding slow
Rode Ypsilanti's Mainote Greeks,
A Turk's head at each saddle-bow!
Welcome to us its week-old news,
Its corner for the rustic Muse,
Its monthly gauge of snow and rain,
Its record, mingling in a breath
The wedding bell and dirge of death:
Jest, anecdote, and love-lorn tale,
The latest culprit sent to jail;
Its hue and cry of stolen and lost,
Its vendue sales and goods at cost,
And traffic calling loud for gain.
We felt the stir of hall and street,
The pulse of life that round us beat;
The chill embargo of the snow
Was melted in the genial glow;
Wide swung again our ice-locked door,
And all the world was ours once more!
Clasp, Angel of the backword look
And folded wings of ashen gray
And voice of echoes far away,
The brazen covers of thy book;
The weird palimpsest old and vast,
Wherein thou hid'st the spectral past;
Where, closely mingling, pale and glow
The characters of joy and woe;
The monographs of outlived years,
Or smile-illumed or dim with tears,
Green hills of life that slope to death,
And haunts of home, whose vistaed trees
Shade off to mournful cypresses
With the white amaranths underneath.
Even while I look, I can but heed
The restless sands' incessant fall,
Importunate hours that hours succeed,
Each clamorous with its own sharp need,
And duty keeping pace with all.
Shut down and clasp with heavy lids;
I hear again the voice that bids
The dreamer leave his dream midway
For larger hopes and graver fears:
Life greatens in these later years,
The century's aloe flowers to-day!
Yet, haply, in some lull of life,
Some Truce of God which breaks its strife,
The worldling's eyes shall gather dew,
Dreaming in throngful city ways
Of winter joys his boyhood knew;
And dear and early friends -- the few
Who yet remain -- shall pause to view
These Flemish pictures of old days;
Sit with me by the homestead hearth,
And stretch the hands of memory forth
To warm them at the wood-fire's blaze!
And thanks untraced to lips unknown
Shall greet me like the odors blown
From unseen meadows newly mown,
Or lilies floating in some pond,
Wood-fringed, the wayside gaze beyond;
The traveller owns the grateful sense
Of sweetness near, he knows not whence,
And, pausing, takes with forehead bare
The benediction of the air.
141
Some, too fragile for winter winds
The thoughtful grave encloses—
Tenderly tucking them in from frost
Before their feet are cold.
Never the treasures in her nest
The cautious grave exposes,
Building where schoolboy dare not look,
And sportsman is not bold.
This covert have all the children
Early aged, and often cold,
Sparrow, unnoticed by the Father—
Lambs for whom time had not a fold.
How like a winter hath my absence been
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!
What old December's bareness everywhere!
And yet this time removed was summer's time,
The teeming autumn, big with rich increase,
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease:
Yet this abundant issue seemed to me
But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
And thou away, the very birds are mute.
Or, if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer,
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.
When Winter snows upon thy golden hairs,
And frost of age hath nipt thy flowers near,
When dark shall seem thy day that never clears,
And all lies wither'd that was held so dear,
Then take this picture which I here present thee,
Limn'd with a pencil not all unworthy:
Here see the gifts that God and Nature lent thee;
Here read thy self, and what I suffer'd for thee.
This may remain thy lasting monument,
Which happily posterity may cherish;
These colors with thy fading are not spent;
These may remain, when thou and I shall perish.
If they remain, then thou shalt live thereby;
They will remain, and so thou canst not die.
WHEN daisies pied and violets blue,
And lady-smocks all silver-white,
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
Do paint the meadows with delight,
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
Mocks married men; for thus sings he,
Cuckoo!
Cuckoo, cuckoo! - O word of fear,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws,
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks,
When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws,
And maidens bleach their summer smocks
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
Mocks married men; for thus sings he,
Cuckoo!
Cuckoo, cuckoo! - O word of fear,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
from an officer's diary during the last war
I
The sour daylight cracks through my sleep-caked lids.
"Stephan! Stephan!" The rattling orderly
Comes on a trot, the cold tray in his hands:
Toast whitening with oleo, brown tea,
Yesterday's napkins, and an opened letter.
"Your asthma's bad, old man." He doesn't answer,
And turns to the grey windows and the weather.
"Don't worry, Stephan, the lungs will go to cancer."
II
I speak, "the enemy's exhausted, victory
Is almost ours..." These twenty new recruits,
Conscripted for the battles lost already,
Were once the young, exchanging bitter winks,
And shuffling when I rose to eloquence,
Determined not to die and not to show
The fear that held them in their careless stance,
And yet they died, how many wars ago?
Or came back cream puffs, 45, and fat.
I know that I am touched for my eyes brim
With tears I had forgotten. Death is not
For these car salesmen whose only dream
Is of a small percentage of the take.
Oh my eternal smilers, weep for death
Whose harvest withers with your aged aches
And cannot make the grave for lack of breath.
III
Did you wet? Oh no, he had not wet.
How could he say it, it was hard to say
Because he did not understand it yet.
It had to do, maybe, with being away,
With being here where nothing seemed to matter.
It will be better, you will see tomorrow,
I told him, in a while it will be better,
And all the while staring from the mirror
I saw those eyes, my eyes devouring me.
I cannot fire my rifle, I'm aftaid
Even to aim at what I cannot see.
This was his voice, or was it mine I heard?
How do I know that in this foul latrine
I calmed a soldier, infantile, manic?
Could he be real with such eyes pinched between
The immense floating shoulders of his tunic?
IV
Around the table where the map is spread
The officers gather. Now the colonel leans
Into the blinkered light from overhead
And with a penknife improvises plans
For our departure. Plans delivered by
An old staff courier on his bicycle.
One looks at him and wonders does he say,
I lean out and I let my shadow fall
Shouldering the picture that we call the world
And there is darkness? Does he say such things?
Or is there merely silence in his head?
Or other voices which the silence rings?
Such a fine skull and forehead, broad and flat,
The eyes opaque and slightly animal.
I can come closer to a starving cat,
I can read hunger in its eyes and feel
In the irregular motions of its tail
A need that I could feel. He slips his knife
Into the terminal where we entrain
And something seems to issue from my life.
V
In the mice-sawed potato fields dusk waits.
My dull ones march by fours on the playground,
Kicking up dust; The column hesitates
As though in answer to the rising wind,
To darkness and the coldness it must enter.
Listen, my heroes, my half frozen men,
The corporal calls us to that distant winter
Where we will merge the nothingness within.
And they salute as one and stand at peace.
Keeping an arm's distance from everything,
I answer them, knowing they see no face
Between my helmet and my helmet thong.
VI
But three more days and we'll be moving out.
The cupboard of the state is bare, no one,
Not God himself, can raise another recruit.
Drinking my hot tea, listening to the rain,
I sit while Stephan packs, grumbling a bit.
He breaks the china that my mother sent,
Her own first china, as a wedding gift.
"Now that your wife is dead, Captain, why can't
The two of us really make love together?"
I cannot answer. When I lift a plate
It seems I almost hear my long-dead mother
Saying, Watch out, the glass is underfoot.
Stephan is touching me. "Captain, why not?
Three days from now and this will all be gone.
It no longer is!" Son, you don't shout,
In the long run it doesn't help the pain.
I gather the brittle bits and cut my finger
On the chipped rim of my wife's favorite glass,
And cannot make the simple bleeding linger.
"Captain, Captain, there's no one watching us."
I
If seasons all were summers,
And leaves would never fall,
And hopping casement-comers
Were foodless not at all,
And fragile folk might be here
That white winds bid depart;
Then one I used to see here
Would warm my wasted heart!
II
One frail, who, bravely tilling
Long hours in gripping gusts,
Was mastered by their chilling,
And now his ploughshare rusts.
So savage winter catches
The breath of limber things,
And what I love he snatches,
And what I love not, brings.
Oh, pretty girl, you have trapped
yourself in the wrong body.Twenty
extra pounds hang like a lumpy
tapestry on your perfect mammal nature.
Three months ago you were like a
deer staring at the first winter snow.
Now Aphrodite thumbs her nose at you
and tells stories behind your back.
Frosty-white and cold it lies
Underneath the fretful skies;
Snowflakes flutter where the red
Banners of the poppies spread,
And the drifts are wide and deep
Where the lilies fell asleep.
But the sunsets o'er it throw
Flame-like splendor, lucent glow,
And the moonshine makes it gleam
Like a wonderland of dream,
And the sharp winds all the day
Pipe and whistle shrilly gay.
Safe beneath the snowdrifts lie
Rainbow buds of by-and-by;
In the long, sweet days of spring
Music of bluebells shall ring,
And its faintly golden cup
Many a primrose will hold up.
Though the winds are keen and chill
Roses' hearts are beating still,
And the garden tranquilly
Dreams of happy hours to be­
In the summer days of blue
All its dreamings will come true.
See! Winter comes, to rule the varied Year,
Sullen, and sad; with all his rising Train,
Vapours, and Clouds, and Storms: Be these my Theme,
These, that exalt the Soul to solemn Thought,
And heavenly musing. Welcome kindred Glooms!
Wish'd, wint'ry, Horrors, hail! -- With frequent Foot,
Pleas'd, have I, in my cheerful Morn of Life,
When, nurs'd by careless Solitude, I liv'd,
And sung of Nature with unceasing Joy,
Pleas'd, have I wander'd thro' your rough Domains;
Trod the pure, virgin, Snows, my self as pure:
Heard the Winds roar, and the big Torrent burst:
Or seen the deep, fermenting, Tempest brew'd,
In the red, evening, Sky. -- Thus pass'd the Time,
Till, thro' the opening Chambers of the South,
Look'd out the joyous Spring, look'd out, and smil'd.
THEE too, Inspirer of the toiling Swain!
Fair AUTUMN, yellow rob'd! I'll sing of thee,
Of thy last, temper'd, Days, and sunny Calms;
When all the golden Hours are on the Wing,
Attending thy Retreat, and round thy Wain,
Slow-rolling, onward to the Southern Sky.
BEHOLD! the well-pois'd Hornet, hovering, hangs,
With quivering Pinions, in the genial Blaze;
Flys off, in airy Circles: then returns,
And hums, and dances to the beating Ray.
Nor shall the Man, that, musing, walks alone,
And, heedless, strays within his radiant Lists,
Go unchastis'd away. -- Sometimes, a Fleece
Of Clouds, wide-scattering, with a lucid Veil,
Soft, shadow o'er th'unruffled Face of Heaven;
And, thro' their dewy Sluices, shed the Sun,
With temper'd Influence down. Then is the Time,
For those, whom Wisdom, and whom Nature charm,
To steal themselves from the degenerate Croud,
And soar above this little Scene of Things:
To tread low-thoughted Vice beneath their Feet:
To lay their Passions in a gentle Calm,
And woo lone Quiet, in her silent Walks.
NOW, solitary, and in pensive Guise,
Oft, let me wander o'er the russet Mead,
Or thro' the pining Grove; where scarce is heard
One dying Strain, to chear the Woodman's Toil:
Sad Philomel, perchance, pours forth her Plaint,
Far, thro' the withering Copse. Mean while, the Leaves,
That, late, the Forest clad with lively Green,
Nipt by the drizzly Night, and Sallow-hu'd,
Fall, wavering, thro' the Air; or shower amain,
Urg'd by the Breeze, that sobs amid the Boughs.
Then list'ning Hares forsake the rusling Woods,
And, starting at the frequent Noise, escape
To the rough Stubble, and the rushy Fen.
Then Woodcocks, o'er the fluctuating Main,
That glimmers to the Glimpses of the Moon,
Stretch their long Voyage to the woodland Glade:
Where, wheeling with uncertain Flight, they mock
The nimble Fowler's Aim. -- Now Nature droops;
Languish the living Herbs, with pale Decay:
And all the various Family of Flowers
Their sunny Robes resign. The falling Fruits,
Thro' the still Night, forsake the Parent-Bough,
That, in the first, grey, Glances of the Dawn,
Looks wild, and wonders at the wintry Waste.
THE Year, yet pleasing, but declining fast,
Soft, o'er the secret Soul, in gentle Gales,
A Philosophic Melancholly breathes,
And bears the swelling Thought aloft to Heaven.
Then forming Fancy rouses to conceive,
What never mingled with the Vulgar's Dream:
Then wake the tender Pang, the pitying Tear,
The Sigh for suffering Worth, the Wish prefer'd
For Humankind, the Joy to see them bless'd,
And all the Social Off-spring of the Heart!
OH! bear me then to high, embowering, Shades;
To twilight Groves, and visionary Vales;
To weeping Grottos, and to hoary Caves;
Where Angel-Forms are seen, and Voices heard,
Sigh'd in low Whispers, that abstract the Soul,
From outward Sense, far into Worlds remote.
NOW, when the Western Sun withdraws the Day,
And humid Evening, gliding o'er the Sky,
In her chill Progress, checks the straggling Beams,
And robs them of their gather'd, vapoury, Prey,
Where Marshes stagnate, and where Rivers wind,
Cluster the rolling Fogs, and swim along
The dusky-mantled Lawn: then slow descend,
Once more to mingle with their Watry Friends.
The vivid Stars shine out, in radiant Files;
And boundless Ether glows, till the fair Moon
Shows her broad Visage, in the crimson'd East;
Now, stooping, seems to kiss the passing Cloud:
Now, o'er the pure Cerulean, rides sublime.
Wide the pale Deluge floats, with silver Waves,
O'er the sky'd Mountain, to the low-laid Vale;
From the white Rocks, with dim Reflexion, gleams,
And faintly glitters thro' the waving Shades.
ALL Night, abundant Dews, unnoted, fall,
And, at Return of Morning, silver o'er
The Face of Mother-Earth; from every Branch
Depending, tremble the translucent Gems,
And, quivering, seem to fall away, yet cling,
And sparkle in the Sun, whose rising Eye,
With Fogs bedim'd, portends a beauteous Day.
NOW, giddy Youth, whom headlong Passions fire,
Rouse the wild Game, and stain the guiltless Grove,
With Violence, and Death; yet call it Sport,
To scatter Ruin thro' the Realms of Love,
And Peace, that thinks no Ill: But These, the Muse,
Whose Charity, unlimited, extends
As wide as Nature works, disdains to sing,
Returning to her nobler Theme in view --
FOR, see! where Winter comes, himself, confest,
Striding the gloomy Blast. First Rains obscure
Drive thro' the mingling Skies, with Tempest foul;
Beat on the Mountain's Brow, and shake the Woods,
That, sounding, wave below. The dreary Plain
Lies overwhelm'd, and lost. The bellying Clouds
Combine, and deepening into Night, shut up
The Day's fair Face. The Wanderers of Heaven,
Each to his Home, retire; save those that love
To take their Pastime in the troubled Air,
And, skimming, flutter round the dimply Flood.
The Cattle, from th'untasted Fields, return,
And ask, with Meaning low, their wonted Stalls;
Or ruminate in the contiguous Shade:
Thither, the houshold, feathery, People croud,
The crested Cock, with all his female Train,
Pensive, and wet. Mean while, the Cottage-Swain
Hangs o'er th'enlivening Blaze, and, taleful, there,
Recounts his simple Frolic: Much he talks,
And much he laughs, nor recks the Storm that blows
Without, and rattles on his humble Roof.
AT last, the muddy Deluge pours along,
Resistless, roaring; dreadful down it comes
From the chapt Mountain, and the mossy Wild,
Tumbling thro' Rocks abrupt, and sounding far:
Then o'er the sanded Valley, floating, spreads,
Calm, sluggish, silent; till again constrain'd,
Betwixt two meeting Hills, it bursts a Way,
Where Rocks, and Woods o'erhang the turbid Stream.
There gathering triple Force, rapid, and deep,
It boils, and wheels, and foams, and thunders thro'.
NATURE! great Parent! whose directing Hand
Rolls round the Seasons of the changeful Year,
How mighty! how majestick are thy Works!
With what a pleasing Dread they swell the Soul,
That sees, astonish'd! and, astonish'd sings!
You too, ye Winds! that now begin to blow,
With boisterous Sweep, I raise my Voice to you.
Where are your Stores, ye viewless Beings! say?
Where your aerial Magazines reserv'd,
Against the Day of Tempest perilous?
In what untravel'd Country of the Air,
Hush'd in still Silence, sleep you, when 'tis calm?
LATE, in the louring Sky, red, fiery, Streaks
Begin to flush about; the reeling Clouds
Stagger with dizzy Aim, as doubting yet
Which Master to obey: while rising, slow,
Sad, in the Leaden-colour'd East, the Moon
Wears a bleak Circle round her sully'd Orb.
Then issues forth the Storm, with loud Control,
And the thin Fabrick of the pillar'd Air
O'erturns, at once. Prone, on th'uncertain Main,
Descends th'Etherial Force, and plows its Waves,
With dreadful Rift: from the mid-Deep, appears,
Surge after Surge, the rising, wat'ry, War.
Whitening, the angry Billows rowl immense,
And roar their Terrors, thro' the shuddering Soul
Of feeble Man, amidst their Fury caught,
And, dash'd upon his Fate: Then, o'er the Cliff,
Where dwells the Sea-Mew, unconfin'd, they fly,
And, hurrying, swallow up the steril Shore.
THE Mountain growls; and all its sturdy Sons
Stoop to the Bottom of the Rocks they shade:
Lone, on its Midnight-Side, and all aghast,
The dark, way-faring, Stranger, breathless, toils,
And climbs against the Blast --
Low, waves the rooted Forest, vex'd, and sheds
What of its leafy Honours yet remains.
Thus, struggling thro' the dissipated Grove,
The whirling Tempest raves along the Plain;
And, on the Cottage thacht, or lordly Dome,
Keen-fastening, shakes 'em to the solid Base.
Sleep, frighted, flies; the hollow Chimney howls,
The Windows rattle, and the Hinges creak.
THEN, too, they say, thro' all the burthen'd Air,
Long Groans are heard, shrill Sounds, and distant Sighs,
That, murmur'd by the Demon of the Night,
Warn the devoted Wretch of Woe, and Death!
Wild Uproar lords it wide: the Clouds commixt,
With Stars, swift-gliding, sweep along the Sky.
All Nature reels. -- But hark! the Almighty speaks:
Instant, the chidden Storm begins to pant,
And dies, at once, into a noiseless Calm.
AS yet, 'tis Midnight's Reign; the weary Clouds,
Slow-meeting, mingle into solid Gloom:
Now, while the drousy World lies lost in Sleep,
Let me associate with the low-brow'd Night,
And Contemplation, her sedate Compeer;
Let me shake off th'intrusive Cares of Day,
And lay the medling Senses all aside.
AND now, ye lying Vanities of Life!
You ever-tempting, ever-cheating Train!
Where are you now? and what is your Amount?
Vexation, Disappointment, and Remorse.
Sad, sickening, Thought! and yet, deluded Man,
A Scene of wild, disjointed, Visions past,
And broken Slumbers, rises, still resolv'd,
With new-flush'd Hopes, to run your giddy Round.
FATHER of Light, and Life! Thou Good Supreme!
O! teach me what is Good! teach me thy self!
Save me from Folly, Vanity and Vice,
From every low Pursuit! and feed my Soul,
With Knowledge, conscious Peace, and Vertue pure,
Sacred, substantial, never-fading Bliss!
LO! from the livid East, or piercing North,
Thick Clouds ascend, in whose capacious Womb,
A vapoury Deluge lies, to Snow congeal'd:
Heavy, they roll their fleecy World along;
And the Sky saddens with th'impending Storm.
Thro' the hush'd Air, the whitening Shower descends,
At first, thin-wavering; till, at last, the Flakes
Fall broad, and wide, and fast, dimming the Day,
With a continual Flow. See! sudden, hoar'd,
The Woods beneath the stainless Burden bow,
Blackning, along the mazy Stream it melts;
Earth's universal Face, deep-hid, and chill,
Is all one, dazzling, Waste. The Labourer-Ox
Stands cover'd o'er with Snow, and then demands
The Fruit of all his Toil. The Fowls of Heaven,
Tam'd by the cruel Season, croud around
The winnowing Store, and claim the little Boon,
That Providence allows. The foodless Wilds
Pour forth their brown Inhabitants; the Hare,
Tho' timorous of Heart, and hard beset
By Death, in various Forms, dark Snares, and Dogs,
And more unpitying Men, the Garden seeks,
Urg'd on by fearless Want. The bleating Kind
Eye the bleak Heavens, and next, the glistening Earth,
With Looks of dumb Despair; then sad, dispers'd,
Dig, for the wither'd Herb, thro' Heaps of Snow.
NOW, Shepherds, to your helpless Charge be kind;
Baffle the raging Year, and fill their Penns
With Food, at will: lodge them below the Blast,
And watch them strict; for from the bellowing East,
In this dire Season, oft the Whirlwind's Wing
Sweeps up the Burthen of whole wintry Plains,
In one fierce Blast, and o'er th'unhappy Flocks,
Lodg'd in the Hollow of two neighbouring Hills,
The billowy Tempest whelms; till, upwards urg'd,
The Valley to a shining Mountain swells,
That curls its Wreaths amid the freezing Sky.
NOW, all amid the Rigours of the Year,
In the wild Depth of Winter, while without
The ceaseless Winds blow keen, be my Retreat
A rural, shelter'd, solitary, Scene;
Where ruddy Fire, and beaming Tapers join
To chase the chearless Gloom: there let me sit,
And hold high Converse with the mighty Dead,
Sages of ancient Time, as Gods rever'd,
As Gods beneficent, who blest Mankind,
With Arts, and Arms, and humaniz'd a World,
Rous'd at th'inspiring Thought -- I throw aside
The long-liv'd Volume, and, deep-musing, hail
The sacred Shades, that, slowly-rising, pass
Before my wondering Eyes -- First, Socrates,
Truth's early Champion, Martyr for his God:
Solon, the next, who built his Commonweal,
On Equity's firm Base: Lycurgus, then,
Severely good, and him of rugged Rome,
Numa, who soften'd her rapacious Sons.
Cimon sweet-soul'd, and Aristides just.
Unconquer'd Cato, virtuous in Extreme;
With that attemper'd Heroe, mild, and firm,
Who wept the Brother, while the Tyrant bled.
Scipio, the humane Warriour, gently brave,
Fair Learning's Friend; who early sought the Shade,
To dwell, with Innocence, and Truth, retir'd.
And, equal to the best, the Theban, He
Who, single, rais'd his Country into Fame.
Thousands behind, the Boast of Greece and Rome,
Whom Vertue owns, the Tribute of a Verse
Demand, but who can count the Stars of Heaven?
Who sing their Influence on this lower World?
But see who yonder comes! nor comes alone,
With sober State, and of majestic Mien,
The Sister-Muses in his Train -- 'Tis He!
Maro! the best of Poets, and of Men!
Great Homer too appears, of daring Wing!
Parent of Song! and, equal, by his Side,
The British Muse, join'd Hand in Hand, they walk,
Darkling, nor miss their Way to Fame's Ascent.
Society divine! Immortal Minds!
Still visit thus my Nights, for you reserv'd,
And mount my soaring Soul to Deeds like yours.
Silence! thou lonely Power! the Door be thine:
See, on the hallow'd Hour, that none intrude,
Save Lycidas, the Friend, with Sense refin'd,
Learning digested well, exalted Faith,
Unstudy'd Wit, and Humour ever gay.
CLEAR Frost succeeds, and thro' the blew Serene,
For Sight too fine, th'Ætherial Nitre flies,
To bake the Glebe, and bind the slip'ry Flood.
This of the wintry Season is the Prime;
Pure are the Days, and lustrous are the Nights,
Brighten'd with starry Worlds, till then unseen.
Mean while, the Orient, darkly red, breathes forth
An Icy Gale, that, in its mid Career,
Arrests the bickering Stream. The nightly Sky,
And all her glowing Constellations pour
Their rigid Influence down: It freezes on
Till Morn, late-rising, o'er the drooping World,
Lifts her pale Eye, unjoyous: then appears
The various Labour of the silent Night,
The pendant Isicle, the Frost-Work fair,
Where thousand Figures rise, the crusted Snow,
Tho' white, made whiter, by the fining North.
On blithsome Frolics bent, the youthful Swains,
While every Work of Man is laid at Rest,
Rush o'er the watry Plains, and, shuddering, view
The fearful Deeps below: or with the Gun,
And faithful Spaniel, range the ravag'd Fields,
And, adding to the Ruins of the Year,
Distress the Feathery, or the Footed Game.
BUT hark! the nightly Winds, with hollow Voice,
Blow, blustering, from the South -- the Frost subdu'd,
Gradual, resolves into a weeping Thaw.
Spotted, the Mountains shine: loose Sleet descends,
And floods the Country round: the Rivers swell,
Impatient for the Day. -- Those sullen Seas,
That wash th'ungenial Pole, will rest no more,
Beneath the Shackles of the mighty North;
But, rousing all their Waves, resistless heave, --
And hark! -- the length'ning Roar, continuous, runs
Athwart the rifted Main; at once, it bursts,
And piles a thousand Mountains to the Clouds!
Ill fares the Bark, the Wretches' last Resort,
That, lost amid the floating Fragments, moors
Beneath the Shelter of an Icy Isle;
While Night o'erwhelms the Sea, and Horror looks
More horrible. Can human Hearts endure
Th'assembled Mischiefs, that besiege them round:
Unlist'ning Hunger, fainting Weariness,
The Roar of Winds, and Waves, the Crush of Ice,
Now, ceasing, now, renew'd, with louder Rage,
And bellowing round the Main: Nations remote,
Shook from their Midnight-Slumbers, deem they hear
Portentous Thunder, in the troubled Sky.
More to embroil the Deep, Leviathan,
And his unweildy Train, in horrid Sport,
Tempest the loosen'd Brine; while, thro' the Gloom,
Far, from the dire, unhospitable Shore,
The Lyon's Rage, the Wolf's sad Howl is heard,
And all the fell Society of Night.
Yet, Providence, that ever-waking Eye
Looks down, with Pity, on the fruitless Toil
Of Mortals, lost to Hope, and lights them safe,
Thro' all this dreary Labyrinth of Fate.
'TIS done! -- Dread WINTER has subdu'd the Year,
And reigns, tremenduous, o'er the desart Plains!
How dead the Vegetable Kingdom lies!
How dumb the Tuneful! Horror wide extends
His solitary Empire -- Now, fond Man!
Behold thy pictur'd Life: pass some few Years,
Thy flow'ring SPRING, thy short-liv'd SUMMER's Strength,
Thy sober AUTUMN, fading into Age,
And pale, concluding, WINTER shuts thy Scene,
And shrouds Thee in the Grave -- where now, are fled
Those Dreams of Greatness? those unsolid Hopes
Of Happiness? those Longings after Fame?
Those restless Cares? those busy, bustling Days?
Those Nights of secret Guilt? those veering Thoughts,
Flutt'ring 'twixt Good, and Ill, that shar'd thy Life?
All, now, are vanish'd! Vertue, sole, survives,
Immortal, Mankind's never-failing Friend,
His Guide to Happiness on high -- and see!
'Tis come, the Glorious Morn! the second Birth
Of Heaven, and Earth! -- awakening Nature hears
Th'Almighty Trumpet's Voice, and starts to Life,
Renew'd, unfading. Now, th'Eternal Scheme,
That Dark Perplexity, that Mystic Maze,
Which Sight cou'd never trace, nor Heart conceive,
To Reason's Eye, refin'd, clears up apace.
Angels, and Men, astonish'd, pause -- and dread
To travel thro' the Depths of Providence,
Untry'd, unbounded. Ye vain Learned! see,
And, prostrate in the Dust, adore that Power,
And Goodness, oft arraign'd. See now the Cause,
Why conscious Worth, oppress'd, in secret long
Mourn'd, unregarded: Why the Good Man's Share
In Life, was Gall, and Bitterness of Soul:
Why the lone Widow, and her Orphans, pin'd,
In starving Solitude; while Luxury,
In Palaces, lay prompting her low Thought,
To form unreal Wants: why Heaven-born Faith,
And Charity, prime Grace! wore the red Marks
Of Persecution's Scourge: why licens'd Pain,
That cruel Spoiler, that embosom'd Foe,
Imbitter'd all our Bliss. Ye Good Distrest!
Ye Noble Few! that, here, unbending, stand
Beneath Life's Pressures -- yet a little while,
And all your Woes are past. Time swiftly fleets,
And wish'd Eternity, approaching, brings
Life undecaying, Love without Allay,
Pure flowing Joy, and Happiness sincere.
Today the world...
Landscaped in pen and ink by
hidden hands
Is winter and embossed in white
on white,
The sky cries down its tears
upon the earth.
Black angled trees...
An onyx labyrinth twists down
the wind
Until the ground is rippled
white brocade
bemeath a shifting candleflame
of sun.
And we ourselves...
Embracing on the creek, like
figurines
Skate out across a polished
mirror of ice
Its edges rough and ridged
like hobnailed glass.
THEE for my recitative!
Thee in the driving storm, even as now--the snow--the winter-day
declining;
Thee in thy panoply, thy measured dual throbbing, and thy beat
convulsive;
Thy black cylindric body, golden brass, and silvery steel;
Thy ponderous side-bars, parallel and connecting rods, gyrating,
shuttling at thy sides;
Thy metrical, now swelling pant and roar--now tapering in the
distance;
Thy great protruding head-light, fix'd in front;
Thy long, pale, floating vapor-pennants, tinged with delicate purple;
The dense and murky clouds out-belching from thy smoke-stack;
Thy knitted frame--thy springs and valves--the tremulous twinkle of
thy wheels;                                                  10
Thy train of cars behind, obedient, merrily-following,
Through gale or calm, now swift, now slack, yet steadily careering:
Type of the modern! emblem of motion and power! pulse of the
continent!
For once, come serve the Muse, and merge in verse, even as here I see
thee,
With storm, and buffeting gusts of wind, and falling snow;
By day, thy warning, ringing bell to sound its notes,
By night, thy silent signal lamps to swing.
Fierce-throated beauty!
Roll through my chant, with all thy lawless music! thy swinging lamps
at night;
Thy piercing, madly-whistled laughter! thy echoes, rumbling like an
earthquake, rousing all!                                     20
Law of thyself complete, thine own track firmly holding;
(No sweetness debonair of tearful harp or glib piano thine,)
Thy trills of shrieks by rocks and hills return'd,
Launch'd o'er the prairies wide--across the lakes,
To the free skies, unpent, and glad, and strong.
There is one story and one story only
That will prove worth your telling,
Whether as learned bard or gifted child;
To it all lines or lesser gauds belong
That startle with their shining
Such common stories as they stray into.
Is it of trees you tell, their months and virtues,
Or strange beasts that beset you,
Of birds that croak at you the Triple will?
Or of the Zodiac and how slow it turns
Below the Boreal Crown,
Prison to all true kings that ever reigned?
Water to water, ark again to ark,
From woman back to woman:
So each new victim treads unfalteringly
The never altered circuit of his fate,
Bringing twelve peers as witness
Both to his starry rise and starry fall.
Or is it of the Virgin's silver beauty,
All fish below the thighs?
She in her left hand bears a leafy quince;
When, with her right hand she crooks a finger, smiling,
How many the King hold back?
Royally then he barters life for love.
Or of the undying snake from chaos hatched,
Whose coils contain the ocean,
Into whose chops with naked sword he springs,
Then in black water, tangled by the reeds,
Battles three days and nights,
To be spewed up beside her scalloped shore?
Much snow is falling, winds roar hollowly,
The owl hoots from the elder,
Fear in your heart cries to the loving-cup:
Sorrow to sorrow as the sparks fly upward.
The log groans and confesses:
There is one story and one story only.
Dwell on her graciousness, dwell on her smiling,
Do not forget what flowers
The great boar trampled down in ivy time.
Her brow was creamy as the crested wave,
Her sea-blue eyes were wild
But nothing promised that is not performed.
Although the roof is just a story high,
It dizzies me a little to look down.
I lariat-twirl the rope of Christmas lights
And cast it to the weeping birch's crown;
A dowel into which I've screwed a hook
Enables me to reach,lift,drape,and twine
The cord among the boughs so that the bulbs
Will accent the tree's elegant design.
Friends, passing home from work or shopping, pause
And call up commendations or critiques.
I make adjustments. Though a potpourri
Of Muslims,Christians,Buddhists, Jews, and Sikhs,
We all are conscious of the time of year;
We all enjoy its colorful displays
And keep some festival that mitigates
The dwindling warmth and compass of the days.
Some say that L.A. doesn't suit the Yule,
But UPS vans now like magi make
Their present-laden rounds, while fallen leaves
Are gaily resurrected in their wake;
The desert lifts a full moon from the east
And issues a dry Santa Ana breeze,
And valets at chic restaurants will soon
Be tending flocks of cars and SUV's.
And as the neighborhoods sink into dusk
The fan palms scattered all across town stand
More calmly prominent, and this place seems
A vast oasis in the Holy Land.
This house might be a caravansary,
The tree a kind of cordial fountainhead
Of welcome, looped and decked with necklaces
And ceintures of green,yellow,blue,and red.
Some wonder if the star of Bethlehem
Occurred when Jupiter and Saturn crossed;
It's comforting to look up from this roof
And feel that, while all changes, nothing's lost,
To recollect that in antiquity
The winter solstice fell in Capricorn
And that, in the Orion Nebula,
From swirling gas, new stars are being born.
Stay, season of calm love and soulful snows!
There is a subtle sweetness in the sun,
The ripples on the stream's breast gaily run,
The wind more boisterously by me blows,
And each succeeding day now longer grows.
The birds a gladder music have begun,
The squirrel, full of mischief and of fun,
From maples' topmost branch the brown twig throws.
I read these pregnant signs, know what they mean:
I know that thou art making ready to go.
Oh stay! I fled a land where fields are green
Always, and palms wave gently to and fro,
And winds are balmy, blue brooks ever sheen,
To ease my heart of its impassioned woe.
"Blow, blow, thou winter wind."
Away from here,
And I shall greet thy passing breath
Without a tear.
I do not love thy snow and sleet
Or icy flows;
When I must jump or stamp to warm
My freezing toes.
For why should I be happy or
E'en be merry,
In weather only fitted for
Cook or Peary.
My eyes are red, my lips are blue
My ears frost bitt'n;
Thy numbing kiss doth e'en extend
Thro' my mitten.
I am cold, no matter how I warm
Or clothe me;
O Winter, greater bards have sung
I loathe thee!
O Winter! bar thine adamantine doors:
The north is thine; there hast thou built thy dark
Deep-founded habitation. Shake not thy roofs,
Nor bend thy pillars with thine iron car.'
He hears me not, but o'er the yawning deep
Rides heavy; his storms are unchain'd, sheathèd
In ribbèd steel; I dare not lift mine eyes,
For he hath rear'd his sceptre o'er the world.
Lo! now the direful monster, whose 1000 skin clings
To his strong bones, strides o'er the groaning rocks:
He withers all in silence, and in his hand
Unclothes the earth, and freezes up frail life.
He takes his seat upon the cliffs,--the mariner
Cries in vain. Poor little wretch, that deal'st
With storms!--till heaven smiles, and the monster
Is driv'n yelling to his caves beneath mount Hecla.
Twice a week the winter thorough
Here stood I to keep the goal:
Football then was fighting sorrow
For the young man's soul.
Now in Maytime to the wicket
Out I march with bat and pad:
See the son of grief at cricket
Trying to be glad.
Try I will; no harm in trying:
Wonder 'tis how little mirth
Keeps the bones of man from lying
On the bed of earth.
When the winter chrysanthemums go,
there's nothing to write about
but radishes.
Translated by Robert Hass
The wintry west extends his blast,
And hail and rain does blaw;
Or the stormy north sends driving forth
The blinding sleet and snaw:
While, tumbling brown, the burn comes down,
And roars frae bank to brae;
And bird and beast in covert rest,
And pass the heartless day.
"The sweeping blast, the sky o'ercast,"
The joyless winter day
Let others fear, to me more dear
Than all the pride of May:
The tempest's howl, it soothes my soul,
My griefs it seems to join;
The leafless trees my fancy please,
Their fate resembles mine!
Thou Power Supreme, whose mighty scheme
These woes of mine fulfil,
Here firm I rest; they must be best,
Because they are Thy will!
Then all I want-O do Thou grant
This one request of mine!-
Since to enjoy Thou dost deny,
Assist me to resign.
Now when I have a cold
I am careful with my cold,
I consult a physician
And I do as I am told.
I muffle up my torso
In woolly woolly garb,
And I quaff great flagons
Of sodium bicarb.
I munch on aspirin,
I lunch on water,
And I wouldn’t dream of osculating
Anybody’s daughter,
And to anybody’s son
I wouldn’t say howdy,
For I am a sufferer
Magna cum laude.
I don’t like germs,
But I’ll keep the germs I’ve got.
Will I take a chance of spreading them?
Definitely not.
I sneeze out the window
And I cough up the flue,
And I live like a hermit
Till the germs get through.
And because I’m considerate,
Because I’m wary,
I am treated by my friends
Like Typhoid Mary.
Now when you have a cold
You are careless with your cold,
You are cocky as a gangster
Who has just been paroled.
You ignore your physician,
You eat steaks and oxtails,
You stuff yourself with starches,
You drink lots of cocktails,
And you claim that gargling
Is a time of waste,
And you won’t take soda
For you don’t like the taste,
And you prowl around parties
Full of selfish bliss,
And greet your hostess
With a genial kiss.
You convert yourself
Into a deadly missle,
You exhale Hello’s
Like a steamboat wistle.
You sneeze in the subway
And you cough at dances,
And let everybody else
Take their own good chances.
You’re a bronchial boor,
A bacterial blighter,
And you get more invitations
Than a gossip writer.
Yes, your throat is froggy,
And your eyes are swimmy,
And you hand is clammy,
And you nose is brimmy,
But you woo my girls
And their hearts you jimmy
While I sit here
With the cold you gimmy.
Dark frost was in the air without,
The dusk was still with cold and gloom,
When less than even a shadow came
And stood within the room.
But the three around the fire,
None turned a questioning head to look,
Still read a clear voice, on and on,
Still stooped they o'er their book.
The children watched their mother's eyes
Moving on softly line to line;
It seemed to listen too -- that shade,
Yet made no outward sign.
The fire-flames crooned a tiny song,
No cold wind moved the wintry tree;
The children both in Faerie dreamed
Beside their mother's knee.
And nearer yet that spirit drew
Above that heedless one, intent
Only on what the simple words
Of her small story meant.
No voiceless sorrow grieved her mind,
No memory her bosom stirred,
Nor dreamed she, as she read to two,
'Twas surely three who heard.
Yet when, the story done, she smiled
From face to face, serene and clear,
A love, half dead, sprang up, as she
Leaned close and drew them near.
To-night the very horses springing by
Toss gold from whitened nostrils. In a dream
The streets that narrow to the westward gleam
Like rows of golden palaces; and high
From all the crowded chimneys tower and die
A thousand aureoles. Down in the west
The brimming plains beneath the sunset rest,
One burning sea of gold. Soon, soon shall fly
The glorious vision, and the hours shall feel
A mightier master; soon from height to height,
With silence and the sharp unpitying stars,
Stern creeping frosts, and winds that touch like steel,
Out of the depth beyond the eastern bars,
Glittering and still shall come the awful night.
When snow falls against the window,
Long sounds the evening bell...
For so many has the table
Been prepared, the house set in order.
From their wandering, many
Come on dark paths to this gateway.
The tree of grace is flowering in gold
Out of the cool sap of the earth.
In stillness, wanderer, step in:
Grief has worn the threshold into stone.
But see:  in pure light, glowing
There on the table:  bread and wine.
Winter garden,
the moon thinned to a thread,
insects singing.
Translated by Robert Hass
Sharp is the night, but stars with frost alive
Leap off the rim of earth across the dome.
It is a night to make the heavens our home
More than the nest whereto apace we strive.
Lengths down our road each fir-tree seems a hive,
In swarms outrushing from the golden comb.
They waken waves of thoughts that burst to foam:
The living throb in me, the dead revive.
Yon mantle clothes us: there, past mortal breath,
Life glistens on the river of the death.
It folds us, flesh and dust; and have we knelt,
Or never knelt, or eyed as kine the springs
Of radiance, the radiance enrings:
And this is the soul's haven to have felt.
Scene.--A wide stretch of fallow ground recently sown with wheat, and
frozen to iron hardness. Three large birds walking about thereon,
and wistfully eyeing the surface. Wind keen from north-east: sky a
dull grey.
(Triolet)
Rook.--Throughout the field I find no grain;
The cruel frost encrusts the cornland!
Starling.--Aye: patient pecking now is vain
Throughout the field, I find . . .
Rook.--No grain!
Pigeon.--Nor will be, comrade, till it rain,
Or genial thawings loose the lorn land
Throughout the field.
Rook.--I find no grain:
The cruel frost encrusts the cornland!
Sweet life! how lovely to be here
And feel the soft sea-laden breeze
Strike my flushed face, the spruce's fair
Free limbs to see, the lesser trees'
Bare hands to touch, the sparrow's cheep
To heed, and watch his nimble flight
Above the short brown grass asleep.
Love glorious in his friendly might,
Music that every heart could bless,
And thoughts of life serene, divine,
Beyond my power to express,
Crowd round this lifted heart of mine!
But oh! to leave this paradise
For the city's dirty basement room,
Where, beauty hidden from the eyes,
A table, bed, bureau, and broom
In corner set, two crippled chairs
All covered up with dust and grim
With hideousness and scars of years,
And gaslight burning weird and dim,
Will welcome me . . . And yet, and yet
This very wind, the winter birds
The glory of the soft sunset,
Come there to me in words.
LIKE the vulture
Who on heavy morning clouds
With gentle wing reposing
Looks for his prey,--
Hover, my song!
For a God hath
Unto each prescribed
His destined path,
Which the happy one
Runs o'er swiftly
To his glad goal:
He whose heart cruel
Fate hath contracted,
Struggles but vainly
Against all the barriers
The brazen thread raises,
But which the harsh shears
Must one day sever.
Through gloomy thickets
Presseth the wild deer on,
And with the sparrows
Long have the wealthy
Settled themselves in the marsh.
Easy 'tis following the chariot
That by Fortune is driven,
Like the baggage that moves
Over well-mended highways
After the train of a prince.
But who stands there apart?
In the thicket, lost is his path;
Behind him the bushes
Are closing together,
The grass springs up again,
The desert engulphs him.
Ah, who'll heal his afflictions,
To whom balsam was poison,
Who, from love's fullness,
Drank in misanthropy only?
First despised, and now a despiser,
He, in secret, wasteth
All that he is worth,
In a selfishness vain.
If there be, on thy psaltery,
Father of Love, but one tone
That to his ear may be pleasing,
Oh, then, quicken his heart!
Clear his cloud-enveloped eyes
Over the thousand fountains
Close by the thirsty one
In the desert.
Thou who createst much joy,
For each a measure o'erflowing,
Bless the sons of the chase
When on the track of the prey,
With a wild thirsting for blood,
Youthful and joyous
Avenging late the injustice
Which the peasant resisted
Vainly for years with his staff.
But the lonely one veil
Within thy gold clouds!
Surround with winter-green,
Until the roses bloom again,
The humid locks,
Oh Love, of thy minstrel!
With thy glimmering torch
Lightest thou him
Through the fords when 'tis night,
Over bottomless places
On desert-like plains;
With the thousand colours of morning
Gladd'nest his bosom;
With the fierce-biting storm
Bearest him proudly on high;
Winter torrents rush from the cliffs,--
Blend with his psalms;
An altar of grateful delight
He finds in the much-dreaded mountain's
Snow-begirded summit,
Which foreboding nations
Crown'd with spirit-dances.
Thou stand'st with breast inscrutable,
Mysteriously disclosed,
High o'er the wondering world,
And look'st from clouds
Upon its realms and its majesty,
Which thou from the veins of thy brethren
Near thee dost water.
Within the circuit of this plodding life
There enter moments of an azure hue,
Untarnished fair as is the violet
Or anemone, when the spring stew them
By some meandering rivulet, which make
The best philosophy untrue that aims
But to console man for his grievences.
I have remembered when the winter came,
High in my chamber in the frosty nights,
When in the still light of the cheerful moon,
On the every twig and rail and jutting spout,
The icy spears were adding to their length
Against the arrows of the coming sun,
How in the shimmering noon of winter past
Some unrecorded beam slanted across
The upland pastures where the Johnwort grew;
Or heard, amid the verdure of my mind,
The bee's long smothered hum, on the blue flag
Loitering amidst the mead; or busy rill,
Which now through all its course stands still and dumb
Its own memorial, - purling at its play
Along the slopes, and through the meadows next,
Until its youthful sound was hushed at last
In the staid current of the lowland stream;
Or seen the furrows shine but late upturned,
And where the fieldfare followed in the rear,
When all the fields around lay bound and hoar
Beneath a thick integument of snow.
So by God's cheap economy made rich
To go upon my winter's task again.
All night the wind swept over the house
And through our dream
Swirling the snow up through the pines,
Ruffling the white, ice-capped clapboards,
Rattling the windows,
Rustling around and below our bed
So that we rode
Over wild water
In a white ship breasting the waves.
We rode through the night
On green, marbled
Water, and, half-waking, watched
The white, eroded peaks of icebergs
Sail past our windows;
Rode out the night in that north country,
And awoke, the house buried in snow,
Perched on a
Chill promontory, a
Giant's tooth
In the mouth of the cold valley,
Its white tongue looped frozen around us,
The trunks of tall birches
Revealing the rib cage of a whale
Stranded by a still stream;
And saw, through the motionless baleen of their branches,
As if through time,
Light that shone
On a landscape of ivory,
A harbor of bone.
I tell my secret? No indeed, not I:
Perhaps some day, who knows?
But not today; it froze, and blows, and snows,
And you're too curious: fie!
You want to hear it? well:
Only, my secret's mine, and I won't tell.
Or, after all, perhaps there's none:
Suppose there is no secret after all,
But only just my fun.
Today's a nipping day, a biting day;
In which one wants a shawl,
A veil, a cloak, and other wraps:
I cannot ope to every one who taps,
And let the draughts come whistling thro' my hall;
Come bounding and surrounding me,
Come buffeting, astounding me,
Nipping and clipping thro' my wraps and all.
I wear my mask for warmth: who ever shows
His nose to Russian snows
To be pecked at by every wind that blows?
You would not peck? I thank you for good will,
Believe, but leave that truth untested still.
Spring's and expansive time: yet I don't trust
March with its peck of dust,
Nor April with its rainbow-crowned brief showers,
Nor even May, whose flowers
One frost may wither thro' the sunless hours.
Perhaps some languid summer day,
When drowsy birds sing less and less,
And golden fruit is ripening to excess,
If there's not too much sun nor too much cloud,
And the warm wind is neither still nor loud,
Perhaps my secret I may say,
Or you may guess.
It snowed and snowed ,the whole world over,
Snow swept the world from end to end.
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
As during summer midges swarm
To beat their wings against a flame
Out in the yard the snowflakes swarmed
To beat against the window pane
The blizzard sculptured on the glass
Designs of arrows and of whorls.
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
Distorted shadows fell
Upon the lighted ceiling:
Shadows of crossed arms,of crossed legs-
Of crossed destiny.
Two tiny shoes fell to the floor
And thudded.
A candle on a nightstand shed wax tears
Upon a dress.
All things vanished within
The snowy murk-white,hoary.
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
A corner draft fluttered the flame
And the white fever of temptation
Upswept its angel wings that cast
A cruciform shadow
It snowed hard throughout the month
Of February, and almost constantly
A candle burned on the table;
A candle burned.
What is this feeling within my heart;
Concealed  by  daylight hours, in  a  shroud of taut restraint.
Winter  evenings  consume,  yesterdays  pursue me,
Smiling, speaking, acting – I can cope, I can cope….
An injured heart bares  healing in the nearness of love,
Yet love becomes frigid  when winter sweeps in, I am alone.
The  world is cold, my heart  laments in  fearful silence
Winter, winter,  where are your friends? ,
Betrayed by the sheath of night, rejoicing in decay
In scornful silence, reflecting on unfulfilled dreams,
Dreading the night, enduring the day. Winter.
Hopes and Dreams,  rest  upon a cradle of love,
Unconditional, fruitful, forbearing, eternal,
Winter  steals, freezes,  and denies.
To be alone in this season, is to be alone,
No voices, no echoes, no gentle memories shared.
A solitary tree yielding to an  unfeeling winter,
Surrendering its leaves  to  winters steel sky.
Fleeting Sunshine, stolen,   lacking of kindness,  or  warmth
Sheets of invasive rain, such unforgiving indifference
Winter is  reconciliation without forgiveness
Yet,  it is the door to Spring, and the resurrection of hope.
Winter! Oh dear our sweet winter,
You are our only lovely time hinter.
We wait for you again waking soon,
Sun rays fall we do get warm boon.
Even at noon we search a blanket,
Some feel happy some wear jacket.
Basket brings a little girl for flower,
She moves toward Church's tower.
Some burn candle and do get light,
Few get fun watching weather's fight.
Might is father he stays in heaven,
He has made Nature in colours seven.
Christmas and New Year come here,
Oh winter you fill us sure in cheer.
You are also one cute sweet season,
You come near us with new reason.
Vision we spread over fog and mist,
Oh dear winter you do write our list.
By touch of mist shines the splinter,
Winter! Oh dear our sweet winter.
A wrinkled crabbed man they picture thee,
Old Winter, with a rugged beard as grey
As the long moss upon the apple-tree;
Blue-lipt, an icedrop at thy sharp blue nose,
Close muffled up, and on thy dreary way
Plodding alone through sleet and drifting snows.
They should have drawn thee by the high-heapt hearth,
Old Winter! seated in thy great armed chair,
Watching the children at their Christmas mirth;
Or circled by them as thy lips declare
Some merry jest, or tale of murder dire,
Or troubled spirit that disturbs the night,
Pausing at times to rouse the mouldering fire,
Or taste the old October brown and bright.
Clouded with snow
The cold winds blow,
And shrill on leafless bough
The robin with its burning breast
Alone sings now.
The rayless sun,
Day's journey done,
Sheds its last ebbing light
On fields in leagues of beauty spread
Unearthly white.
Thick draws the dark,
And spark by spark,
The frost-fires kindle, and soon
Over that sea of frozen foam
Floats the white moon.
I am Winter, that do keep
Longing safe amidst of sleep:
Who shall say if I were dead
What should be remembered?
When icicles hang by the wall
And Dick the shepherd blows his nail
And Tom bears logs into the hall,
And milk comes frozen home in pail,
When Blood is nipped and ways be foul,
Then nightly sings the staring owl,
Tu-who;
Tu-whit, tu-who: a merry note,
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
When all aloud the wind doth blow,
And coughing drowns the parson's saw,
And birds sit brooding in the snow,
And Marian's nose looks red and raw
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
Then nightly sings the staring owl,
Tu-who;
Tu-whit, tu-who: a merry note,
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
Tomatoes rosy as perfect baby's buttocks,
eggplants glossy as waxed fenders,
purple neon flawless glistening
peppers, pole beans fecund and fast
growing as Jack's Viagra-sped stalk,
big as truck tire zinnias that mildew
will never wilt, roses weighing down
a bush never touched by black spot,
brave little fruit trees shouldering up
their spotless ornaments of glass fruit:
I lie on the couch under a blanket
of seed catalogs ordering far
too much. Sleet slides down
the windows, a wind edged
with ice knifes through every crack.
Lie to me, sweet garden-mongers:
I want to believe every promise,
to trust in five pound tomatoes
and dahlias brighter than the sun
that was eaten by frost last week.
Two evils, monstrous either one apart,
Possessed me, and were long and loath at going:
A cry of Absence, Absence, in the heart,
And in the wood the furious winter blowing.
Think not, when fire was bright upon my bricks,
And past the tight boards hardly a wind could enter,
I glowed like them, the simple burning sticks,
Far from my cause, my proper heat and center.
Better to walk forth in the frozen air
And wash my wound in the snows; that would be healing;
Because my heart would throb less painful there,
Being caked with cold, and past the smart of feeling.
And where I walked, the murderous winter blast
Would have this body bowed, these eyeballs streaming,
And though I think this heart's blood froze not fast
It ran too small to spare one drop for dreaming.
Dear love, these fingers that had known your touch,
And tied our separate forces first together,
Were ten poor idiot fingers not worth much,
Ten frozen parsnips hanging in the weather.
When against earth a wooden heel
Clicks as loud as stone on steel,
When stone turns flour instead of flakes,
And frost bakes clay as fire bakes,
When the hard-bitten fields at last
Crack like iron flawed in the cast,
When the world is wicked and cross and old,
I long to be quit of the cruel cold.
Little birds like bubbles of glass
Fly to other Americas,
Birds as bright as sparkles of wine
Fly in the nite to the Argentine,
Birds of azure and flame-birds go
To the tropical Gulf of Mexico:
They chase the sun, they follow the heat,
It is sweet in their bones, O sweet, sweet, sweet!
It's not with them that I'd love to be,
But under the roots of the balsam tree.
Just as the spiniest chestnut-burr
Is lined within with the finest fur,
So the stoney-walled, snow-roofed house
Of every squirrel and mole and mouse
Is lined with thistledown, sea-gull's feather,
Velvet mullein-leaf, heaped together
With balsam and juniper, dry and curled,
Sweeter than anything else in the world.
O what a warm and darksome nest
Where the wildest things are hidden to rest!
It's there that I'd love to lie and sleep,
Soft, soft, soft, and deep, deep, deep!
I saw the city's towers on a luminous pale-gray sky;
Beyond them a hill of the softest mistiest green,
With naught but frost and the coming of night between,
And a long thin cloud above the colour of August rye.
I sat in the midst of a plain on my snowshoes with bended knee
Where the thin wind stung my cheeks,
And the hard snow ran in little ripples and peaks,
Like the fretted floor of a white and petrified sea.
And a strange peace gathered about my soul and shone,
As I sat reflecting there,
In a world so mystically fair,
So deathly silent--I so utterly alone.
Winter solitude--
in a world of one color
the sound of wind.
Translated by Robert Hass
When you startle awake in the dark morning
heart pounding breathing fast
sitting bolt upright staring into
dark whirlpool black hole
feeling its suction
Get out of bed
knock at the door of your nearest friend
ask to lie down ask to be held
Listen while whispered words
turn the hole into deep night sky
stars close together
winter moon rising over white fields
nearby wren rustling dry leaves
distant owl echoing
two people walking up the road laughing
Let your soul laugh
let your heart sigh out
that long held breath so hollow in your stomach
so swollen in your throat
Already light is returning pairs of wings
lift softly off your eyelids one by one
each feathered edge clearer between you
and the pearl veil of day
You have nothing to do but live
Rain and wind, and wind and rain.
Will the Summer come again?
Rain on houses, on the street,
Wetting all the people's feet,
Though they run with might and main.
Rain and wind, and wind and rain.
Snow and sleet, and sleet and snow.
Will the Winter never go?
What do beggar children do
With no fire to cuddle to,
P'raps with nowhere warm to go?
Snow and sleet, and sleet and snow.
Hail and ice, and ice and hail,
Water frozen in the pail.
See the robins, brown and red,
They are waiting to be fed.
Poor dears, battling in the gale!
Hail and ice, and ice and hail.
The browns, the olives, and the yellows died,
And were swept up to heaven; where they glowed
Each dawn and set of sun till Christmastide,
And when the land lay pale for them, pale-snowed,
Fell back, and down the snow-drifts flamed and flowed.
From off your face, into the winds of winter,
The sun-brown and the summer-gold are blowing;
But they shall gleam with spiritual glinter,
When paler beauty on your brows falls snowing,
And through those snows my looks shall be soft-going.
WE take from life one little share,
And say that this shall be
A space, redeemed from toil and care,
From tears and sadness free.
And, haply, Death unstrings his bow
And Sorrow stands apart,
And, for a little while, we know
The sunshine of the heart.
Existence seems a summer eve,
Warm, soft, and full of peace;
Our free, unfettered feelings give
The soul its full release.
A moment, then, it takes the power,
To call up thoughts that throw
Around that charmed and hallowed hour,
This life's divinest glow.
But Time, though viewlessly it flies,
And slowly, will not stay;
Alike, through clear and clouded skies,
It cleaves its silent way.
Alike the bitter cup of grief,
Alike the draught of bliss,
Its progress leaves but moment brief
For baffled lips to kiss.
The sparkling draught is dried away,
The hour of rest is gone,
And urgent voices, round us, say,
' Ho, lingerer, hasten on !'
And has the soul, then, only gained,
From this brief time of ease,
A moment's rest, when overstrained,
One hurried glimpse of peace ?
No; while the sun shone kindly o'er us,
And flowers bloomed round our feet,­
While many a bud of joy before us
Unclosed its petals sweet,­
An unseen work within was plying;
Like honey-seeking bee,
From flower to flower, unwearied, flying,
Laboured one faculty,­
Thoughtful for Winter's future sorrow,
Its gloom and scarcity;
Prescient to-day, of want to-morrow,
Toiled quiet Memory.
'Tis she that from each transient pleasure
Extracts a lasting good;
'Tis she that finds, in summer, treasure
To serve for winter's food.
And when Youth's summer day is vanished,
And Age brings Winter's stress,
Her stores, with hoarded sweets replenished,
Life's evening hours will bless.
Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.
Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.
Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit;
Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.
When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
Its frosty pepper up my nose.
Black are my steps on silver sod;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding cake.
All the complicated details
of the attiring and
the disattiring are completed!
A liquid moon
moves gently among
the long branches.
Thus having prepared their buds
against a sure winter
the wise trees
stand sleeping in the cold.
The frost that stings like fire upon my cheek,
The loneliness of this forsaken ground,
The long white drift upon whose powdered peak
I sit in the great silence as one bound;
The rippled sheet of snow where the wind blew
Across the open fields for miles ahead;
The far-off city towered and roofed in blue
A tender line upon the western red;
The stars that singly, then in flocks appear,
Like jets of silver from the violet dome,
So wonderful, so many and so near,
And then the golden moon to light me home--
The crunching snowshoes and the stinging air,
And silence, frost, and beauty everywhere.
Winter, winter, winter,
When are you going away.
I love it when you snow, but i hate it when you stay.
At first i start to play, until the end of day.
But when the snow gets hard, I wish you go away.
There are strange and mysterious sounds
When the winds of winter blow,
The long nights are crystal clear and cold,
And the fields and meadows are covered with snow.
The stars are frosty against the sky,
And the wind's whistle is shrill,
As the snow blows against the house
And drifts against the hill.
Yet, I like to see during the winter
A white carpet on the ground,
To plod aimlessly in the deep snow,
where deer tracks abound.
I like to feel the stillness
Of a crisp winter's night,
Watching a full moon rise over the horizon,
Exposing a winter wonderland beautiful and bright.
When winter winds are piercing chill,
And through the hawthorn blows the gale,
With solemn feet I tread the hill,
That overbrows the lonely vale.
O'er the bare upland, and away
Through the long reach of desert woods,
The embracing sunbeams chastely play,
And gladden these deep solitudes.
Where, twisted round the barren oak,
The summer vine in beauty clung,
And summer winds the stillness broke,
The crystal icicle is hung.
Where, from their frozen urns, mute springs
Pour out the river's gradual tide,
Shrilly the skater's iron rings,
And voices fill the woodland side.
Alas! how changed from the fair scene,
When birds sang out their mellow lay,
And winds were soft, and woods were green,
And the song ceased not with the day!
But still wild music is abroad,
Pale, desert woods! within your crowd;
And gathering winds, in hoarse accord,
Amid the vocal reeds pipe loud.
Chill airs and wintry winds! my ear
Has grown familiar with your song;
I hear it in the opening year,
I listen, and it cheers me long.
When I led by zummer streams
The pride o' Lea, as naighbours thought her,
While the zun, wi' evenen beams,
Did cast our sheades athirt the water;
Winds a-blowen,
Streams a-flowen,
Skies a-glowen,
Tokens ov my jay zoo fleeten,
Heightened it, that happy meeten.
Then, when maid an' man took pleaces,
Gay in winter's Chris'mas dances,
Showen in their merry feaces
Kindly smiles an' glisnen glances;
Stars a-winken,
Day a-shrinken,
Sheades a-zinken,
Brought anew the happy meeten,
That did meake the night too fleeten.
a happy man
saying,
life
You don’t need to help me please
You can go and sit in peace
Because I will do my best
And God will do the rest
All my work is done
And I’ll go have some fun
Cause I have done my best
And god will do the rest
So shall I go and have some rest please
And you can go and watch TV in ease.
I told my kids we'd see it, this movie, they couldn't wait.
We finally saved the money so we started on our ''date''.
They were so very happy to be on there way to see
this show that they'd been saving for even more than me.
Standing by the corner, he came into our view.
He looked so very helpless that I knew what we should do.
I tried to just look past him, to keep my spirits bright.
But, then I looked in the rearview mirror and knew what would be right.
The kids were looking also, they got quiet and so still.
My son's eyes looked so heavy as they simply began to fill.
He said ''Who needs a movie? There's good stuff on t.v.''
That's when I knew my kids would feel the pain of other's just like me.
As we gave this man the money, he looked me in the eye.
He blessed us all and watched us leave without saying goodbye.
His blessing was well worth it, I felt it in my soul.
I saw my kids' compassion shine and I've never felt so whole.
“The whole world is watching
How Sister Bernarde is living?
Had she died, on us the blame
Surely would’ve come.”
“So, we should keep her
Healthy and safe here,
Let her duty be light
Till she feels alright.”
As a rebirth for her it was,
The Bishop said like this.
Taken out from the kitchen,
Light work, she was given.
She spent her time,
In a spacious room,
On works like paintings,
And colorful drawings.
She did them in perfection
It was a center of attraction
To every visiting personality
Who praised her simplicity.
One day a visitor came,
Not announcing his name,
With his long grey hair
To meet and wish her.
It took sometime for her,
To recognize her father.
She saw him very old
He came there too tired.
To see him, she was glad.
She gave him nice food.
About brothers and sister
To hear, she was eager.
He told, “We miss you
But always remember you.
By His grace, I’ve a mill
That is running well.”
“Your sister Marie has
One boy and two girls
And your two brothers
Are my two helpers.”
“To you, my dear child,
So far, I haven’t been good
Nor given you proper food
From the days of childhood.”
“No Papa, I never felt
In my life like that.
I was always happy.
Now also, I’m happy.”
“I’m sorry for mother
Who loved me forever.
Always I remember her.
Now badly, I miss her.”
Their feelings went thus.
They talked for hours.
When he left the place
Tears filled her eyes.
All Things will indeed fall in place, for our God is a God of Grace.
All fears God will erase away, giving you comfort along the way.
Replacing the fear He does erase, with God’s peace in its place.
Soon what seems so very new, will all be common place for you.
The Grace God bestows on you, in His time will see you through.
No matter what your heart may say, God will lead you all the way.
As your emotion wells up inside, in Christ Jesus you must abide.
For His Grace is sufficient friend, from the beginning to the end.
What seems today to be concern, is just one more means to learn.
God will help you to understand, the present task you have at hand.
God puts you on unknown roads, sometimes with very heavy loads.
God uses things you don’t know, within your world to help you grow.
He works out tasks big and small; and God helps you when you fall.
What seems to be a huge task, can shrink to nothing when you ask.
Going to God on bended knees, will put your troubled heart at ease.
Just ask God right where you are, for Christ, my friend, is never far.
Friend, any time, any place, you can call upon His Awesome Grace.
A Grace that reaches far and wide, filling you with His Peace inside.
Just let Christ Jesus fill your heart, in each and every task you start.
And all your fears shall melt away, as Christ is in your heart to stay.
08/2005
My mommy told me an' the teacher told me, too,
There's all kinds of work that I can do:
Dry my dishes, sweep my floor,
But if we all work together it won't take very long.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
My sister told me,
Brother told me, too,
Lots an' lotsa work
That I can do.
I can bring her candy.
Bring him gum.
But if we all work together
Hadn't oughtta take long. So
My daddy said,
And my grandpaw, too,
There's work, worka, work
For me to do.
I can paint my fence.
Mow my lawn.
But if we all work together,
Well, it shouldn't take long. So
I tell Mama an' Daddy,
Grampaw an' Granmaw, too,
I tell my sister an' my brother,
Lotsa work for you to do.
You can bring me pennie
And candy and gum;
But if we all work together
'Twon't take so very long. And so
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
With a wiggle and a giggle and a google and a goggle
And a jigger and a jagger and a giggle and a grin.
Hair-raising novelty;
Unbelievable story.
Yet something truly experienced.
In India all of them were all ears,
When I once fell into recounting the story to men by the roadside,
Clad in pure white, who became
Visibly quite amused and elated by such foreign freelance reports from
Their world of heavenly Hindu earth.
Came home once, 'twas a good year, from downtown, there
Where I'd been living for long way far out East,
Came home once with some sheets of mystical-scientific papers
Under my arm,
Completely new to me,
It happened to be on my mother's birthday,
Extramundane instructions of indeed one of a kind,
Matters from on high, pertaining to
Goddesses' royal worships and their ritualistic aspects,
High-lighted and exposed in ornamental details for the
Advanced regal audience of initiated followership.
One full length of a page, with most diverse mantras on it;
All dedicated to and given by Great Lady Time, Mother Mahakali
- Greatest Being of a cosmic Damsel spirit
Middling between
World terror and world harmony.
Different mantras, different powers, different effects.
Hoary magic knowledge, derived from the knowledge about cosmic mind.
'And if your concentration and meditation was well-focused
And the practitioner's attitude beneficial to the world
All along the application of the mantra,
Any reward might in due time turn in.'
Understandable point!
But then there was one mantra with a terrific,
An almost unbelievable claim:
'... This is a wish-fulfilling magic rhyme that will make
Any desire formed in mind
Come true to its chanter
Instantaneously!
Instantaneously?
In a second!
Oh, what a high claim!
'This must be a truly most secret mantra! '
'Would I want to test and apply it? '
('Thou shalt not put the Gods to test! ! ')
'What would I possibly want to wish for at this moment,
If I were to apply the instantly fulfilling magic rhyme? '
'Everyone's healthy at home,
Of needed things there's actually nothing lacking for the moment -
But only, maybe, for one thing:
A herbal gift package for an inspirational matinee
Through the verdant hands of friendly Shaktigurunathan
Hadn't found its way for long to
This house of enjoyment.'
After thinking thus poetically, and perusing for once the mantra,
There was a knock on my room door:
It was by one of my close ones:
'My love, there's someone at the gate for you,
A man who wants to speak to you.'
'Tell him to step in. Who is he? '
Had been a former neighbour boy,
Who helped us carry things
When we moved to the other house,
Whom I hadn't seen for many years.
'I have something to offer to you, it is of best quality
And it's rather cheap,
I thought of you, you might want it.'
There it was, the very thing I had thought of, when
Trying to think of anything for a
Desire in my mind,
Before reading that mantra of quickest promise.
It really had fulfilled itself in an instant,
Its claim returned in a second!
Overwhelming.
It got me into making the mistake of letting it out and
The boy know about it, who
In an unguarded moment while inside my house
Must have stolen the sheet with the precious mantras on.
Later on I've never seen the magic paper anymore,
From then on, it was simply gone.
And so was the boy with whom the paper went.
Soon after he was rumoured about as having
Gotten himself into some bad trouble.
Then I could well understand why.
To-day I have downloaded from the net
And installed for display,
To my own gratification as the good gadget's user,
Into the small upper window of the main
Menue on my mobile phone
A new operator logo,
That says in classic hand-writing,
Written in light red:
'Bestfriend',
And fits perfectly into the pre-given space,
Cutting a nice figure within the set.
Yet, before this 'Bestfriend' was granted to successfully
lock in
With my unit to be lodged here with me,
Some hard-headed ethereal signal inhibition was
Yet hampering the finalization of the download act, and
It was that first a real one-time bestfriend,
Someone whom for long I hadn't heard of,
Chanced to have wanted to make a
Courtesy call for once again
Inquiring about my well-fare.
A short call only for decency's sake
Which rendered both of us all the happier.
And then only it was,
A few moments after that call that
I was allowed to accomplish the started download, thus
From that moment only onward now
Having the word 'Bestfriend' glittering on the topside of this toy boy,
My mental compost catering fawn.
With the Gods, so it seems,
An instant fulfillment of a desire, and be it a latent one,
May, if whenever and with whomsoever
They haven chosen to make it happen,
Indeed, come true, and be it in a short
Instant,
Even if there hadn't been any secret mantras known.
To make oneself worthy of being given once in a while
Some sudden and deeper joy, like as if
From higher Angelic spheres,
There maybe it is where our 'true secrets' lie.
Paragraphs,
of words to be.
Written down,
to fill a need.
Sentences,
penned forth to read.
Hung on walls,
for all to see.
Explanations,
of the past.
For the future,
made to last.
Little words,
that make us dream.
Fantasize,
cry and scream.
Delivered to us,
in a grin,
Read in ways,
that chill the skin.
Serious,
but sometimes fun.
A poets work is never done...
What's keepng me
From writing better poetry
(Beyond not finding a word
That rhymes with orange)
I don't see myself as a poet
No one has granted me a license
I have however somehow
Learned how to wheedle words
Out of my head
Onto a blank page
I'll admit I have had to
Kick them around a bit
After they have landed
Some had to be kicked out
I was sad to see them go
It was like having to fire
Your cousin who just
Wasn't carring his weight
My additional problem is
That whenever I pick up a page
Of even my revised poetry
The words are still moving
Some are embarrased
Asking to be replaced
By better more appropriate ones
Some adamately think that
They should remain
Just as they are
Some are trying to jump
From here
To there
For clarity
So what's holding me back
From better words and arrangements
What's preventing a coup
What's keeping them
From breaking through the lines
And taking over
They know how much work
It was to put them there
They know I am reluctant
To call them back
Without having stronger replacemenets
That's all that's holding me back
A glint of early morning sun reflected
in the shiny waxed panels of the parked cars
with blinding rays of light from the mirrored wings
bursting star like on my eyes from a focal intensity
only a pale shadow of the low lying god in my heaven
which hung with unknown colour in a pale blue sky.
The sole of my shoe crunched a gravel chipping
as it pressed into the dry surface of the tarmac drive
making a small mark in memory of my passing
A butterfly with painted wings left its soft repose
and dipped and rose upon the gentle blowing wind
the same air that filled my body with breath and life.
I trace
with trembling fingertip
the naked caligraphy
of your body
my hands
creating you
out of this darkness
so that dawn
finds you
drawn with such
exquisite passion
that it tells
the sun
to look:
'Look! '
And the sun
reaching in the window
can not help but touch
to see if you are real.
'Hands off! '
I warn.
'She's mine! '
And the sun
sulks
as I cover you up
my masterpiece
and finally exhausted I
...fall asleep.
When Nature made her chief work, Stella's eyes,
In colour black why wrapt she beams so bright?
Would she in beamy black, like painter wise,
Frame daintiest lustre, mix'd of shades and light?
Or did she else that sober hue devise,
In object best to knit and strength our sight;
Lest, if no veil these brave gleams did disguise,
They, sunlike, should more dazzle than delight?
Or would she her miraculous power show,
That, whereas black seems beauty's contrary,
She even in black doth make all beauties flow?
Both so, and thus,--she, minding Love should be
Plac'd ever there, gave him this mourning weed
To honour all their deaths who for her bleed.
They say it's never done.
A woman's work.
When, and how can we find fun
Without shirking
All the things there are to do?
Here's a clue.
Try to be aware of
Gifts, hiding in
Every dull and mundane job.
When cooking - stop -
Think, 'how does this vegetable FEEL'
When peeling.
Then, arranging flowers.
Spare only one
Moment, to see the powerful
Colours, deeply
Glowing with exciting sheen.
Once we've seen
Their beauty shining there
Just for us,
We can start to look elsewhere
For other joys.
The whiteness gleaming, through
Folds of blowing clothes
Drying on a line.
When changing beds
Bouncing up and down is fine
For mothers too!
And when cleaning floors why
Not start to jive,
Put music on and show
That we're alive.
Like all other things we flow
With vibrant life.
Try this satisfying way.
Start today.
They are happy because I have moved with them;
They remember that today I spoke to them.
The day has ended as the working time is over;
Surely someone will say a kind word of me there.
The day is going fast whether we know or not;
But we have done the best we can in time tight.
Certainly everyone is rejoicing over what is done;
And everyone’s confidence is restored as it is fun.
By involving all I have utilised the day without waste;
I leave behind my mark in all the things I did fast.
So, I can have a cool sleep even in the summer night
With hope and confidence I have created in the work!
Many loves have come and gone, with many never staying too long.
But my love for you is un-bending,
My thoughts of you un-ending
My love for you is as the sea;
Ever lasting, ever deep.
The bonsai tree
in the attractive pot
could have grown eighty feet tall
on the side of a mountain
till split by lightning.
But a gardener
carefully pruned it.
It is nine inches high.
Every day as he
whittles back the branches
the gardener croons,
It is your nature
to be small and cozy,
domestic and weak;
how lucky, little tree,
to have a pot to grow in.
With living creatures
one must begin very early
to dwarf their growth:
the bound feet,
the crippled brain,
the hair in curlers,
the hands you
love to touch.
I’m well aware that they are laying poems
out on slabs these days – dissecting them –
dropping their heart, their mind, their guts
into little dishes and putting their cells under
a microscope.  They scrape under fingernails
for evidence and chart wounds, both long since
sustained and newly acquired, on a diagram for
future reference.  They drain their blood and
pump them full of something they say will
preserve them, something as insanely unnatural
as the exercise itself, only to then abandon
them, alone, in the long dark night
as if they never existed.
My poems do not wish to be undressed
and undone, poked and prodded, severed
or sliced, only to be forgotten at the turning
of a page.  They want to fly, burn, breath, rage
and urge from you the conversation we would
not otherwise have had.  They want your
instinct, your humanity - understanding –
and not the scalpel or the thin white gloves
that keep us from actually touching.  So, if I
say the horse was just a horse, that the colors
were randomly chosen or that I hung a moon
in the middle of a poem for no particular
reason at all, just let me have that –
but don’t believe me.
.
“Bound to work”
She was ailing with pain.
Work speed was some slow still then she was working.
Why?
She was a worker in a factory.
Work provides food and medicine for her family.
So, she was bound to work in illness also.
She was not telling to the manager about her ailment.
Because it may be possible that manager can sent her on leave with out pay.
And pay was everything for her.
She was a poor worker of a factory having burden of her poor family.
Poverty and burden was her destiny.
I feel that it is the story of unaccountable poor people of the world.
The shadow of uncreated creatures
Flickers in sleep,
Like palm fronds
On an enamel wall.
Violet hands
On the enamel wall
Drowsily sketch sounds
In the ringing-resonant silence.
And transparent kiosks,
In the ringing-resonant silence,
Grow like spangles
In the azure moonlight.
A naked moon rises
In the azure moonlight...
Sounds hover drowsily,
Sounds caress me.
The secrets of created creatures
Caress me caressingly
And palm shadows gutter
On an enamel wall.
All week she's cleaned
someone else's house,
stared down her own face
in the shine of copper--
bottomed pots, polished
wood, toilets she'd pull
the lid to--that look saying
Let's make a change, girl.
But Sunday mornings are hers--
church clothes starched
and hanging, a record spinning
on the console, the whole house
dancing. She raises the shades,
washes the rooms in light,
buckets of water, Octagon soap.
Cleanliness is next to godliness ...
Windows and doors flung wide,
curtains two-stepping
forward and back, neck bones
bumping in the pot, a choir
of clothes clapping on the line.
Nearer my God to Thee ...
She beats time on the rugs,
blows dust from the broom
like dandelion spores, each one
a wish for something better.
Though I have only experimented with it briefly, I am a believer in ‘Lucid Dreaming’
Do you ever create poetry in your dreams? Or do you perhaps compose music?
Do you solve complex problems? Or have you ever thought up a joke?
I have done all of the above and of course many more entertaining things.
Dreams amaze and delight me. Do you remember your dreams?
I often do and one morning woke up with this small poem in complete form.
It is not the greatest poem, but I was amazed nonetheless. I will share it now below:
Dream Work
As sure as I am shooting
As far as I can tell
All things of worth
Persist in dreams
So make them serve you well.
Sun rises and sets everyday;
Moon rises and sets everyday;
Plough man ploughs the field;
Poets love to compose poems!
Some love to do duty well;
But many do only for profit.
How duty has to be done?
What do duty, work mean?
Duty is done expecting none;
Work is done expecting some.
Duty and work all have to do;
But duty, works are different!
Duty is life work for everyone;
Work is done to live life here!
Attending the PMDS workshop today
a 46-page page performance document
to be discussed in detail, I opened it and
closed it immediately, more boring than
that can’t exist in any universe, I’ll go to the
meeting hoping to enjoy the conversation,
the facial expressions of my colleagues;
but not in order to be man-handled again
by Human Resources whose insanity is
rampant and getting worse every day,
we do five minutes of work for every
fifty-page document delineating how
the work should be done, we have a
new form on which clients must fill in
what they thought of our performance -
strangely enough not a single client made
use of it as yet; I wonder why, given how
joyously we compile forms, isn’t it?
Be still, be quiet and you shall see, the hand of The God of Eternity.
Just be still and know He is God, shepherding all with staff and rod.
He’s at work throughout your life; He’s the comfort in pain and strife.
And when a problem won’t relent, God is there with encouragement.
He’s at work in the darkest night; for God is for you that guiding light.
He guides you with a loving nod, protecting you on this earthly sod.
God’s at work in all of His own, as He guides us to an eternal home.
Even if you do not see God’s hand, simply be still then understand,
God doesn’t move like you or me, He moves throughout all eternity.
Starting before the beginning friend, and His presence will not end.
He doesn’t work on earthly time; God’s timely measures are Divine.
God’s been working in lives of men, since that pair was condemned.
God has been working to rectify, the problem created by Satan’s lie.
Friend it isn’t that God is slow, He’s just patient so that all can know,
The problem by Satan was rectified, on the cross, when Jesus died.
Now He’s at work in believers friend, helping others to comprehend,
The saving Truth of Jesus Christ, so that they can gain Eternal Life.
With a new life in Christ you’ll see, how He’s at work in you and me.
Let Christ Jesus in your heart, and a new work in you God will start.
God’s work will be done in ways, to fill your heart with eternal praise.
(Copyright ©02/2006)
gotta go to work
work work work wok work work work work work work work
gotta go to work
work work work work work work work work work work work
12697566846748857455848
work work work work work
gotta go to work
work work work work wok work
136498368574934
gotta go to work
repeatedly, until u want to stop
By: Ashley jones
the hours passed
so swiftly
now it is 9: 04 on my watch
i have written
poems
candidly
direct from the mind
to this blank eyes
always staring at me
this dumb monitor
i like to write more
but what can i do?
got to work to and
earn my living
and got to hammer
some more
this mortar and pestle
of this justice
system that
does not really
work....
the Chief Justice
can kill me
but oh well,
this is nothing
but work
and work
and work
and work
nothing to do with justice
but work
nothing personal
(so it is but impersonal)
no eyes
just this blindness
hammer, hammer now
hammer out, hammer in
this gavel
this, oh, well, this bread
of life
this death for some
this escape for you
Go work in my vineyard, said the Lord,
And gather the bruised grain;
But the reapers had left the stubble bare,
And I trod the soil in pain.
The fields of my Lord are wide and broad,
He has pastures fair and green,
And vineyards that drink the golden light
Which flows from the sun's bright sheen.
I heard the joy of the reapers' song,
As they gathered golden grain;
Then wearily turned unto my task,
With a lonely sense of pain.
Sadly I turned from the sun's fierce glare,
And sought the quiet shade,
And over my dim and weary eyes
Sleep's peaceful fingers strayed.
I dreamed I joined with a restless throng,
Eager for pleasure and gain;
But ever and anon a stumbler fell,
And uttered a cry of pain.
But the eager crowd still hurried on,
Too busy to pause or heed,
When a voice rang sadly through my soul,
You must staunch these wounds that bleed.
My hands were weak, but I reached them out
To feebler ones than mine,
And over the shadows of my life
Stole the light of a peace divine.
Oh! then my task was a sacred thing,
How precious it grew in my eyes!
'Twas mine to gather the bruised grain
For the "Lord of Paradise."
And when the reapers shall lay their grain
On the floors of golden light,
I feel that mine with its broken sheaves
Shall be precious in His sight.
Though thorns may often pierce my feet,
And the shadows still abide,
The mists will vanish before His smile,
There will be light at eventide.
Do I read signs that aren't there
Is that look in your eye a wanting or a pity
Is your mind split in two like mine
Guess work
Make your move
Because I wont......
wish i could pull the
distance between us like a
rug in the sad times
(by edgardo s. tugade,13 aug 08)
A truck loads garbage,
Driver hums along, and sticks
Red bouquet on seat.
Flowers not discriminate;
Fragrance emanate...
What is life without difficulty?
Is there such meaning as simplicity?
Problems only make us more stress.
And also give us white hairs.
Here are the school work.
Crash! I knelt on the floor!
Here comes the homework.
Bam! I fell on all fours!
' What are you doing? '
My mother boomed.
' School work and homework, Mom! '
I grumbled.
To be continued...
How do you tackle your work each day?
Are you scared of the job you find?
Do you grapple the task that comes your way
With a confident, easy mind?
Do you stand right up to the work ahead
Or fearfully pause to view it?
Do you start to toil with a sense of dread?
Or feel that you're going to do it?
You can do as much as you think you can,
But you'll never accomplish more;
If you're afraid of yourself, young man,
There's little for you in store.
For failure comes from the inside first,
It's there if we only knew it,
And you can win, though you face the worst,
If you feel that you're going to do it.
Success! It's found in the soul of you,
And not in the realm of luck!
The world will furnish the work to do,
But you must provide the pluck.
You can do whatever you think you can,
It's all in the way you view it.
It's all in the start you make, young man:
You must feel that you're going to do it.
How do you tackle your work each day?
With confidence clear, or dread?
What to yourself do you stop and say
When a new task lies ahead?
What is the thought that is in your mind?
Is fear ever running through it?
If so, just tackle the next you find
By thinking you're going to do it.
--From "A Heap o' Linin'," by Edgar A. Guest
I tackle my terrible job each day
With a fear that is well defined;
And I grapple the task that comes my way
With no confidence in my mind.
I try to evade the work ahead,
As I fearfully pause to view it,
And I start to toil with a sense of dread,
And doubt that I'm going to do it.
I can't do as much as I think I can,
And I never accomplish more.
I am scared to death of myself, old man,
As I may have observed before.
I've read the proverbs of Charley Schwab,
Carnegie, and Marvin Hughitt;
But whenever I tackle a difficult job,
O gosh! I hate to do it!
I try to believe in my vaunted power
With that confident kind of bluff,
But somebody tells me The Conning Tower
Is nothing but awful stuff.
And I take up my impotent pen that night,
And idly and sadly chew it,
As I try to write something merry and bright,
And I know that I shall not do it.
And that's how I tackle my work each day--
With terror and fear and dread--
And all I can see is a long array
Of empty columns ahead.
And those are the thoughts that are in my mind,
And that's about all there's to it.
As long as there's work, of whatever kind,
I'm certain I cannot do it.
Because no one could ever praise me enough,
because I don't mean these poems only
but the unseen
unbelievable effort it takes to live
the life that goes on between them,
I think all the time about invisible work.
About the young mother on Welfare
I interviewed years ago,
who said, "It's hard.
You bring him to the park,
run rings around yourself keeping him safe,
cut hot dogs into bite-sized pieces fro dinner,
and there's no one
to say what a good job you're doing,
how you were patient and loving
for the thousandth time even though you had a headache."
And I, who am used to feeling sorry for myself
because I am lonely,
when all the while,
as the Chippewa poem says, I am being carried
by great winds across the sky,
thought of the invisible work that stitches up the world day and night,
the slow, unglamorous work of healing,
the way worms in the garden
tunnel ceaselessly so the earth can breathe
and bees ransack this world into being,
while owls and poets stalk shadows,
our loneliest labors under the moon.
There are mothers
for everything, and the sea
is a mother too,
whispering and whispering to us
long after we have stopped listening.
I stopped and let myself lean
a moment, against the blue
shoulder of the air. The work
of my heart
is the work of the world's heart.
There is no other art.
244
It is easy to work when the soul is at play—
But when the soul is in pain—
The hearing him put his playthings up
Makes work difficult—then—
It is simple, to ache in the Bone, or the Rind—
But Gimlets—among the nerve—
Mangle daintier—terribler—
Like a Panter in the Glove—
Hunger is fasting always eating bubbles asking
for a people stick on which to chew.
Leaking tears of spice to mellow tast of you.
Sitting on a bay of sunken docks sniffing reused
questions fixing clocks flakes of mind floating by
a big deluge.
Baby fish in fluid takes no druid stones where
crazy people seem to lay angle fish swimming
close to shore hooked up with you.
Even a retarded fish can bend the rule floating
in a sea bent ruler way to fat to throw you back.
just love your work
and tell you what
the work does
it all for you
just sit there
do not even think
or lift a finger
your work hands
everything to you
in finished forms
perfectly perfect
love your work
and everything is done
without noticing
the existence of time
love your work
the table comes to you
all set and all you have
to do is simply sit,
eat and relax and
wait
kewl.
Work is
Life...
Life is work...
Any work is not
Wrong...
Without work is
Worng...
Human every budy works
Wny way  too work...s
Work is making you...
Work is given good life
For you...and your's...
So...
Understand too work
Earn money too work...
Live  life with your work...
Love too work...
Learn to do the work...
Lovingely do the work...
3-foot blue cannisters of nitro
along a conveyor belt, slow fish
speaking the language of silence.
On the roof, I in my respirator
patching the asbestos gas lines
as big around as the thick waist
of an oak tree. "These here are
the veins of the place, stuff
inside's the blood." We work in rain,
heat, snow, sleet. First warm
spring winds up from Ohio, I
pause at the top of the ladder
to take in the wide world reaching
downriver and beyond. Sunlight
dumped on standing and moving
lines of freight cars, new fields
of bright weeds blowing, scoured
valleys, false mountains of coke
and slag. At the ends of sight
a rolling mass of clouds as dark
as money brings the weather in.
Mamas don't let your babies grow up and work for Disney,
Don't let 'em wear mouse ears,
Or sing a pop song,
Don't let 'em wear belly shirts,
The whole thing is wrong.
Mamas don't let your babies grow up to work for Disney.
They''ll end up on drugs
And be managed by thugs
Cos here's where it's at,
Mickey mouse is really a rat..
Around 1608; a pleasant day in Cambridge;
eight men sit round a table. Originally there were nine:
Dr Lively who presided at their speedy start
is now departed their distinguished company;
gave his lively life to this great enterprise, some say.
Among them still, the greatest of divines and
Hebrew scholars of their day.
This, the seventh version of the Bible
through its history; ‘seven times purified’
as the Bible says itself,
through Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, Latin,
and English versions over centuries…
Since 1604, they’ve worked upon their
allotted section of the Bible; one sixth;
now they’re on the 'Canticles'; today
it’s Psalm 46: God is our hope and strength,
a very present help in trouble…
They have arrived now at the final verses:
God has stilled the warring armies
of the outer world; and now to still the inner world…
‘Lette goe; and knowe thatte I am Godde’..
that, the learned Hebrew scholars say,
is how it actually translates…
‘Bee stille and knowe..’ they find in earlier translation;
which command should they pass down
to centuries to come? Which sound tells the soul
the most, of its true nature? Or which sound will aid the soul
the quickest to return to its true self?
The scholars and divines, (all 54 of them in sum)
work at phenomenal, at godly, speed;
this is the great work of their lives;
‘Let go’; ‘Be still’ – which has more
the ring of soul’s eternity?
All have done their homework; rolled the words
around their tongue, their mind; heard them
uttered from the pulpit of their inner house of God;
a brief discussion; summary arms then raised in silent vote;
one command, they have agreed,
is for our present help in trouble, for
the moment now; the other is for ever;
the soul’s instruction from its peaceful self;
as God speaks to the angels, who
speak to the hearts of men:
the room falls silent; while
the secretary scratches in the wet black ink:
‘Be still and know that I Am God’
The body of the lingerneedle is filled
with hemolymph unconstricted except
for a single dorsal vessel. A ventral
diaphragm bathes the organs of the head,
undulations drawing the fluid back through
tiny holes called ostia aided by the movement
of a Napoleon within each abdominal segment
pacing his Elba exile, muttering la Russie
la Russie as the snow squeaks beneath
his boots. All through the night
the temperature drops but no one
knows where the lingerneedle goes.
Yet it emerges each spring like
a baseball team. Gertrude Stein
may have been referring to this when
she wrote, A hurried heaving is a quartz
confinement, although what we normally think of
as referring is brought into question by her work.
A hive of white suching. At the time
of her death, she owned many valuable
paintings renowned for ugliness.
Gertrude Stein grew up in Oakland
but an Oakland as we know it not. No
plastic bags snagged in the trees. Semi-
automatics had yet to reach the fifth grade.
A person could stand in a field, naked
and singing. Sure, there was blood but
there were rags for wiping up the blood.
Deciduous trees, often confused by California
dimes, just bloom whenthehellever like how
people have sex in French movies. Here,
during the cool evenings and hot mid-days,
the mild winters and resistive texts,
the lingerneedle thrives. Upon the ruddy
live oak leaves appears its first instar,
spit-like but changing shortly to a messy lace
erupting into many-legged, heavy-winged
adults that want only to mate. Often in July,
one finds them collapsed in the tub, unable
to gain purchase on the porcelain that seems
to attract them mightily. It is best not
to make everything a metaphor of one's own life
but many have pressed themselves against cool
and smooth, in love and doomed. Truly
the earth hurtles through the cosmos at
an alarming rate. Recent research suggests
a gummy discharge of the mating pair
has promise as an anti-coagulant. Please,
more money is needed. The sun sets. The air
turns chilly and full of jasmine.
Work, work, work..
sitting effort,
on a chair
empty screen,
emotive stare
Work, work, work...
slunched shoulders,
side by side
warming ocean,
stolen pride,
Work, work, work...
hey man,
you man,
ant-field flys
pergatory,
promotion,
pitch-fork eyes.
Work, work, work...
college loving,
take me back,
drunk lace orgy,
primrose sack
Work, work, work...
day dream,
day stare,
simple soul.
Drop your complexity
and know,
your,
role.
Copyright (c)    David DeSantis
On no work of words now for three lean months in the
bloody
Belly of the rich year and the big purse of my body
I bitterly take to task my poverty and craft:
To take to give is all, return what is hungrily given
Puffing the pounds of manna up through the dew to heaven,
The lovely gift of the gab bangs back on a blind shaft.
To lift to leave from treasures of man is pleasing death
That will rake at last all currencies of the marked breath
And count the taken, forsaken mysteries in a bad dark.
To surrender now is to pay the expensive ogre twice.
Ancient woods of my blood, dash down to the nut of the seas
If I take to burn or return this world which is each man's
work.
One lesson, Nature, let me learn of thee,
One lesson which in every wind is blown,
One lesson of two duties kept at one
Though the loud world proclaim their enmity--
Of toil unsever'd from tranquility!
Of labor, that in lasting fruit outgrows
Far noisier schemes, accomplish'd in repose,
Too great for haste, too high for rivalry.
Yes, while on earth a thousand discords ring,
Man's fitful uproar mingling with his toil,
Still do thy sleepless ministers move on,
Their glorious tasks in silence perfecting;
Still working, blaming still our vain turmoil,
Laborers that shall not fail, when man is gone.
He
was a piece
of  work,
His life a
work of art
He was
a brilliant fool
masquerading as genius
Or, perhaps,
a stellar genius
just  acting
the fool
He wore his success
like a stagnant, rotting albatross
around his neck,
its stench his constant
companion and
splendid cologne
His Life Portrait was
surreal,
abstract, askew
Each and every
moment of his moments
engorged with
gleeful rage and
upcoming root-canal apprehension
He
was a proverbial
mess
Who constantly,
addictively,
helplessly
sought the problem,
the flaw,
the not-quite-right –
even in Summer’s pale roses
He just
took for granted
that,
even in Heaven
there’s something
terribly off,
The angels’ harps just
a wee bit out of tune
Like I said,
this man
was a colossal mess –
Picasso gone wrong
She sat alone
in front of her computer screen
hoping for some images to appear
and awaken her lost dream.
She wrote of love
in words so sweet and pure.
Words of love she hoped one day
would be spoken back to her.
Everyday she grew more lonely
as time kept marching on;
hoping all the time to hear
springs sweet love song.
Whether she ever heard it
is very hard to tell
as she no longer works here.
Some say she found her love
and eloped with him,
others said she just died
of a lonely broken heart.
Whichever way the story went
it is hard to tell
as she don’t work here anymore.
18 February 2008
My heart is beating
I have a brush in my hand
There is paint all around me
Your face I paint
Now it's done
On the wall it hangs
I'm looking at it and smiling
My heart is beating faster
It's beautiful
It's my mom
Those hours, that with gentle work did frame
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell,
Will play the tyrants to the very same
And that unfair which fairly doth excel;
For never-resting Time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'ersnowed and bareness everywhere.
Then, were not summer's distillation left
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.
But flowers distilled, though they with winter meet,
Leese but their show; their substance still lives sweet.
Those hours, that with gentle work did frame
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell,
Will play the tyrants to the very same
And that unfair which fairly doth excel;
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter, and confounds him there;
Sap checked with frost, and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness every where:
Then were not summer's distillation left,
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
Nor it, nor no remembrance what it was:
But flowers distill'd, though they with winter meet,
Leese but their show; their substance still lives sweet.
Forget the past, however bitter be;
Tomorrow is yet in your very hands;
But labor hard towards a goal truly;
Your dreams could turn true from some distant lands.
Let patience stay with you till very last;
Small bickering should not upset your mood;
All cannot take the lane that is too fast;
There isn't the time to waste or even brood.
And when a hill in life is climbed by you;
The glory, satisfaction are so great;
Nevertheless, you must condescend too;
And try in life to do a greater feat.
All days are same; we must keep working more;
Work harder till life takes you to the fore.
Sorcerer's Work
If all  the morning     became  identical,
If all the night- long continue in a twilight...
If the soul is punished to live without dream,
Tell me,  it's not called death of the poet...
If  azure- eyes do not see to sky more, more
Inevitably, I will soon forget of   heavens colour ...
Don't begin a white song  my white swan, while
I know, it's  sorcerer's  work, he has not died   -live...
Nothing is still, and we need to keep pace
With seasonal race, as earth itself works.
Life's march is relentless, submission wise,
As eternity lies in and around
The urges to work.
Nature hates shirking.
Starting today, join in the harmony.
Play the symphony along with the universe
Learn that tasking begets much
Self-respect from the first.
There is a saying, those who love work
Love life, and labour enables the worker
To tap it's secrets of utmost delight.
All knowledge leads to it, all love
Is filled with it, structures are built with it.
This love of work is a linking with self
And a binding with others, even with God,
For the Great Workers' example
Stands as it's own proof.
Injecting something of spirit in work
Is shown, no matter what object attained.
Pertaining to effort,
A mere loaf of bread, statue of stone,
Table of wood, flagon of wine,
All have the breath of their maker around
And inside, hiding golden rewards.
Because labour is visible love
In perpetual motion, resulting in action,
And always achieving
Only what love would approve.
SPIRIT whose work is done! spirit of dreadful hours!
Ere, departing, fade from my eyes your forests of bayonets;
Spirit of gloomiest fears and doubts, (yet onward ever unfaltering
pressing;)
Spirit of many a solemn day, and many a savage scene! Electric
spirit!
That with muttering voice, through the war now closed, like a
tireless phantom flitted,
Rousing the land with breath of flame, while you beat and beat the
drum;
--Now, as the sound of the drum, hollow and harsh to the last,
reverberates round me;
As your ranks, your immortal ranks, return, return from the battles;
While the muskets of the young men yet lean over their shoulders;  10
While I look on the bayonets bristling over their shoulders;
While those slanted bayonets, whole forests of them, appearing in the
distance, approach and pass on, returning homeward,
Moving with steady motion, swaying to and fro, to the right and left,
Evenly, lightly rising and falling, as the steps keep time;
--Spirit of hours I knew, all hectic red one day, but pale as death
next day;
Touch my mouth, ere you depart--press my lips close!
Leave me your pulses of rage! bequeath them to me! fill me with
currents convulsive!
Let them scorch and blister out of my chants, when you are gone;
Let them identify you to the future, in these songs.
the light is fading out
we come together
we each hold a candle
to form a greater light
as you see
teamwork is the best way
Let your work be, bride. Listen, the
guest has come.
Do you hear, he is gently shaking
the chain which fastens the door?
See that your anklets make no loud
noise, and that your step is not over-
hurried at meeting him.
Let your work be, bride, the guest
had come in the evening.
No, it is not the ghostly wind, bride,
do not be frightened.
It is the full moon on a night of
April; shadows are pale in the court-
yard; the sky overhead is bright.
Draw your veil over your face if
you must, carry the lamp to the door
if you fear.
No, it is not the ghostly wind, bride,
do not be frightened.
Have no word with him if you are
shy; stand aside by the door when you
meet him.
If he asks you questions, and if
you wish to, you can lower you eyes
in silence.
Do not let your bracelets jingle
when, lamp in hand, you lead him in.
Have no words with him if your are
shy.
Have you not finished you work yet,
bride? Listen, the guest has come.
Have you not lit the lamp in the
cowshed?
Have you not got ready the offering
basket for the evening service?
Have you not put the red lucky
mark at the parting of your hair, and
done your toilet for the night?
O bride, do you hear, the guest has
come?
Let your work be!
is by admitting
or opening away.
This is the simplest form
of current: Blue
moving through blue;
blue through purple;
the objects of desire
opening upon themselves
without us; the objects of faith.
The way things work
is by solution,
resistance lessened or
increased and taken
advantage of.
The way things work
is that we finally believe
they are there,
common and able
o illustrate themselves.
Wheel, kinetic flow,
rising and falling water,
ingots, levers and keys,
I believe in you,
cylinder lock, pully,
lifting tackle and
crane lift your small head--
I believe in you--
your head is the horizon to
my hand. I believe
forever in the hooks.
The way things work
is that eventually
something catches.
The love of a muse,
The pen of an artist,
This ink work will teach many yet unborn.
This art is from a realm to guide you,
This art work is like a mustard seed aroun you;
It is original!
It comes from a realm unknown;
It will inspire you.
This art is real to abstract your minds,
The innovative nature of my mind to you all;
It is the act of my dreams beyond imaginations!
This art will teach many,
It will inspire you all that love the muse.
This art work,
It is like a mustard seed;
It will grow to give you joy!
It is like the muse next door,
It will touch and influence you;
This art work ia sll that i have as an artist
This art work is never known,
It is called, 'Pen-Painting Graphics Abstracts'.
This art will teach many,
My innerself from the realm of imaginations!
This art will teach you;
But, the artist is never known.
This art is from a realm to guide you into my heart,
This art is from a realm to bring you into my world,
This is the love of a sweet muse to you all;
This art is from the pen of an artist who,
Is yet to be known.
This art is here to stay,
This art is all that i have for you all;
Cos', he who proves his skills proves his realms.
When I got married I had a rubber lizzard that I had for a number of years. The lizzard looked and felt real. So I said, Tonight I'm gonna have a little fun with my honey bun.
I slipped in bed and put the lizzard under the covers on her side of the bed. When I lay there in wait for the fun to begin.
She came in and hopped in beside me and landed on that lizzard.
She let out the awfulest blood curdling scream I ever heard.Then she started to cry. Then she screamed again. Then she cried some more.
Then she finally got her breath.
"O.K. You jerk. Take that lizzard and get out the door."
I put the lizzard in my dresser drawer before I went out the door.I thought our marriage had come to an end.
I promised her I'd never do that again.
All the people in town told my wife that she had married a clown that would never settle down.
I learned something that night when we had our first fight. If you treat your wife with respect and don't act like a jerk, your marriage is bound to work and she will even iron you shirts.
You can't expect her to earn your living. You've got to get off your duff and earn some of that spending stuff.
You may not have much money.
But you will alwyas have your honey. Which is worth more than all the money. You've got to settle down and quit your fooling around.
Trying to paint the town.
You can't sit in a bar.
And make the payment on your car.
The other side of the street may look greener, poison oak may look like four leave clover. But you will know the difference when it's all over.
My wife and I have been married almost fifty years now and that lizzard is still in my dresser drawer.
NOW all the truth is out,
Be secret and take defeat
From any brazen throat,
For how can you compete,
Being honour bred, with one
Who, were it proved he lies,
Were neither shamed in his own
Nor in his neighbours' eyes?
Bred to a harder thing
Than Triumph, turn away
And like a laughing string
Whereon mad fingers play
Amid a place of stone,
Be secret and exult,
Because of all things known
That is most difficult.
A paradoxical ode, after Shelley.
I.
My soul is an entangled knot,
Upon a liquid vortex wrought
By Intellect, in the Unseen residing,
And thine cloth like a convict sit,
With marlinspike untwisting it,
Only to find its knottiness abiding;
Since all the tools for its untying
In four-dimensioned space are lying
Wherein thy fancy intersperses
Long avenues of universes,
While Klein and Clifford fill the void
With one finite, unbounded homaloid,
And think the Infinite is now at last destroyed.
II.
But when thy Science lifts her pinions
In Speculation’s wild dominions,
We treasure every dictum thou emittest,
While down the stream of Evolution
We drift, expecting no solution
But that of the survival of the fittest.
Till, in the twilight of the gods,
When earth and sun are frozen clods,
When, all its energy degraded,
Matter to æther shall have faded;
We, that is, all the work we’ve done,
As waves in æther, shall for ever run
In ever-widening spheres through heavens beyond the sun.
III.
Great Principle of all we see,
Unending Continuity!
By thee are all our angles sweetly rounded,
By thee are our misfits adjusted,
And as I still in thee have trusted,
So trusting, let me never be confounded!
Oh never may direct Creation
Break in upon my contemplation;
Still may thy causal chain, ascending,
Appear unbroken and unending,
While Residents in the Unseen—
Æons and Emanations—intervene,
And from my shrinking soul the Unconditioned screen.
That time catches up on us all is surely not a lie
He is too old to work and he is too young to die
On retirement pension and quite bored with life
He spends much of his time arguing with his wife
On their fortieth year of marriage and love between them long dead
With a son and daughter and seven grandchildren and old age ahead
Since the warm feelings of love in their life has gone cold
They have nothing to look forward to but growing old
He and his wife in their mid to late sixties and their best years long gone
And only the will to live keeps them living on
Years ago they used to walk hand in hand to the park off of the street
But nowadays out walking them one never does meet
On his own in the pub he sits and drinks his beer
Looking rather unhappy and lacking in cheer.
Every day can be lovely if you open your mind
Face life as it is, do your best and unwind.
Some of us lives for work and be important,
Some of us spend time doing nothing for them work is unpleasant.
It is not the work, but what we learn through where we are now,
How we communicate with others & what we learn of life anyhow.
So, work hard or do nothing, your place is there to learn the secret,
Preferably with peace, happiness, easy living wish & positive deep-set.
Then you will find life's easy street,
You work only if you want and will find life sweet.
Will find how to enjoy everything,
With gratefulness in your heart everlasting.
He would leave early and walk slowly
As if balancing books
On the way to school, already expecting
To be tardy once again and heavy
With numbers, the unfashionably rounded
Toes of his shoes invisible beyond
The slope of his corporation. He would pause
At his favorite fundamentally sound
Park bench, which had been the birthplace
Of paeans and ruminations on other mornings,
And would turn his back to it, having gauged the distance
Between his knees and the edge of the hardwood
Almost invariably unoccupied
At this enlightened hour by the bums of nighttime
(For whom the owlish eye of the moon
Had been closed by daylight) , and would give himself wholly over
Backwards and trustingly downwards
And be well seated there. He would remove
From his sinister jacket pocket a postcard
And touch it and retouch it with the point
Of the fountain he produced at his fingertips
And fill it with his never-before-uttered
Runes and obbligatos and pellucidly cryptic
Duets from private pageants, from broken ends
Of fandangos with the amoeba chaos chaos
Couchant and rampant. Then he would rise
With an effort as heartfelt as a decision
To get out of bed on Sunday and carefully
Relocate his center of gravity
Above and beyond an imaginary axis
Between his feet and carry the good news
Along the path and the sidewalk, well on his way
To readjusting the business of the earth.
No thorns, limbs sashay longly, cheetah
walk toward
no prey, footloose, her dark blond hair
streaming, no intrusion. (Beer)     'Could I've
one? ' No
harm. 'Lotsa' people hang
out here.' No blame. (Smoke)
'Peace, ' she said,
in Chrystal clear Downeast, an aroma eluding words, &
a smile that lights a soggy
joint. 'Peace, '
she says, again,
long as she looks past the sniffing. '...I
don't think I've ever
voted... [T]here's a pebble in my shoe...' (and those
feet!) , nature jealously scraping along
her only
tan-less feature, limnable as last year's hangups.
She turns twenty-nine today,
loved me watch her walk away.
We stand in the rain in a long line
waiting at Ford Highland Park. For work.
You know what work is—if you're
old enough to read this you know what
work is, although you may not do it.
Forget you. This is about waiting,
shifting from one foot to another.
Feeling the light rain falling like mist
into your hair, blurring your vision
until you think you see your own brother
ahead of you, maybe ten places.
You rub your glasses with your fingers,
and of course it's someone else's brother,
narrower across the shoulders than
yours but with the same sad slouch, the grin
that does not hide the stubbornness,
the sad refusal to give in to
rain, to the hours wasted waiting,
to the knowledge that somewhere ahead
a man is waiting who will say, 'No,
we're not hiring today,' for any
reason he wants. You love your brother,
now suddenly you can hardly stand
the love flooding you for your brother,
who's not beside you or behind or
ahead because he's home trying to
sleep off a miserable night shift
at Cadillac so he can get up
before noon to study his German.
Works eight hours a night so he can sing
Wagner, the opera you hate most,
the worst music ever invented.
How long has it been since you told him
you loved him, held his wide shoulders,
opened your eyes wide and said those words,
and maybe kissed his cheek? You've never
done something so simple, so obvious,
not because you're too young or too dumb,
not because you're jealous or even mean
or incapable of crying in
the presence of another man, no,
just because you don't know what work is.
I know that today I ran from you
I didn't mean to hurt,
I couldn't stay a minute longer
I'd waited by the church.
You said be there by nine
When you got there I was gone,
I thought it would be fine
It was nearly ten past one.
I waited there for hours
The rain was pouring down
Looking at the spires
Birds flying and swooping round.
You can't hold on forever
I have walked out the door
I wondered briefly why and realised
I didn't want to see you anymore.
(C)  Victoria Elizabeth Hughes 2005
Now that you work
I have suddendly found my self pacing about
in our silent apartment
missing you and wishing
you would ask me the time.
I've got the children to tend
The clothes to mend
The floor to mop
The food to shop
Then the chicken to fry
The baby to dry
I got company to feed
The garden to weed
I've got shirts to press
The tots to dress
The can to be cut
I gotta clean up this hut
Then see about the sick
And the cotton to pick.
Shine on me, sunshine
Rain on me, rain
Fall softly, dewdrops
And cool my brow again.
Storm, blow me from here
With your fiercest wind
Let me float across the sky
'Til I can rest again.
Fall gently, snowflakes
Cover me with white
Cold icy kisses and
Let me rest tonight.
Sun, rain, curving sky
Mountain, oceans, leaf and stone
Star shine, moon glow
You're all that I can call my own.
The woman singeth at her spinning-wheel
A pleasant chant, ballad or barcarole;
She thinketh of her song, upon the whole,
Far more than of her flax; and yet the reel
Is full, and artfully her fingers feel
With quick adjustment, provident control,
The lines--too subtly twisted to unroll--
Out to a perfect thread. I hence appeal
To the dear Christian Church--that we may do
Our Father's business in these temples mirk,
Thus swift and steadfast, thus intent and strong;
While thus, apart from toil, our souls pursue
Some high calm spheric tune, and prove our work
The better for the sweetness of our song.
Each day I live I thank the Lord
I do the work I love;
And in it find a rich reward,
All price and praise above.
For few may do the work they love,
The fond unique employ,
That fits them as a hand a glove,
And gives them joy.
Oh gentlefolk, do you and you
Who toil for daily hire,
Consider that the job you do
Is to your heart's desire?
Aye, though you are to it resigned,
And will no duty shirk,
Oh do you in your private mind
Adore your work?
Twice happy man whose job is joy,
Whose hand and heart combine,
In brave and excellent employ
As radiantly as mine!
But oh the weary, dreary day,
The wear and tear and irk
Of countless souls who cannot say:
'I love my work.'
Then a ploughman said, "Speak to us of Work."
And he answered, saying:
You work that you may keep pace with the earth and the soul of the earth.
For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession, that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite.
When you work you are a flute through whose heart the whispering of the hours turns to music.
Which of you would be a reed, dumb and silent, when all else sings together in unison?
Always you have been told that work is a curse and labour a misfortune.
But I say to you that when you work you fulfil a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born,
And in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life,
And to love life through labour is to be intimate with life's inmost secret.
But if you in your pain call birth an affliction and the support of the flesh a curse written upon your brow, then I answer that naught but the sweat of your brow shall wash away that which is written.
You have been told also life is darkness, and in your weariness you echo what was said by the weary.
And I say that life is indeed darkness save when there is urge,
And all urge is blind save when there is knowledge,
And all knowledge is vain save when there is work,
And all work is empty save when there is love;
And when you work with love you bind yourself to yourself, and to one another, and to God.
And what is it to work with love?
It is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth.
It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house.
It is to sow seeds with tenderness and reap the harvest with joy, even as if your beloved were to eat the fruit.
It is to charge all things you fashion with a breath of your own spirit,
And to know that all the blessed dead are standing about you and watching.
Often have I heard you say, as if speaking in sleep, "he who works in marble, and finds the shape of his own soul in the stone, is a nobler than he who ploughs the soil.
And he who seizes the rainbow to lay it on a cloth in the likeness of man, is more than he who makes the sandals for our feet."
But I say, not in sleep but in the over-wakefulness of noontide, that the wind speaks not more sweetly to the giant oaks than to the least of all the blades of grass;
And he alone is great who turns the voice of the wind into a song made sweeter by his own loving.
Work is love made visible.
And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy.
For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger.
And if you grudge the crushing of the grapes, your grudge distills a poison in the wine.
And if you sing though as angels, and love not the singing, you muffle man's ears to the voices of the day and the voices of the night.
Work requires professionalism,
at all times in all set of conditions.
let an earned knowledge and skills,
an asset to be utilized as maximal.
no regrets even if reward is scare,
go ahead do it for the love of work.
People around need not to be told,
everyone knows who perform well.
real professional does not brag,
seldom claims for recognition.
open-minded to a paradigm shift,
never pessimistic but often optimistic
at anything of value and substance.
let others rationalize to find reasons,
act on the issues with sound mind
no jesting around just do things right.
406
Some—Work for Immortality—
The Chiefer part, for Time—
He—Compensates—immediately—
The former—Checks—on Fame—
Slow Gold—but Everlasting—
The Bullion of Today—
Contrasted with the Currency
Of Immortality—
A Beggar—Here and There—
Is gifted to discern
Beyond the Broker's insight—
One's—Money—One's—the Mine—
Today's poem, about
what? I asked for help at work
and I got a lot.
Honesty moves hearts
as honest. As policy,
it is justly best.
(by edgardo s. tugade,22 july 08)
Work seems to be mandatory,
For people like me,
Slaving over books at school,
Just to get the grades,
We don’t have much money,
So after school I work,
Cleaning, babysitting, retail,
It’s tiring after awhile,
Homework and coursework,
Two more pains of teenage life,
It seems to me that I,
Work all night and work all day,
In the future for many years to come,
I know I’ll have to work,
Uni work and training,
I’ll need a part time job too,
But then I see, between it all,
I do get a rest and have fun,
I have great times, out with friends,
Addicted to CSI,
So now I work faster,
To get it over with,
Cus my philosophy is,
Work hard now, play harder later.
Hell is a place I have to go
Hell is a place that I truly know
I have to go to hell
I have to hear that ringing bell
I must scrape through the day
Just need to make some bread every day
Hell is a place that makes me pay
Hell is a place I hate
Hell is a meal that leaves a bitter taste
Hell is a place I wake up and go to
Is Hell a place you call work, too?
Beautiful majestic
Wild horses
Roaming freely
Full of spirit
We
Rope them
Break them
Brand them
Enslave them
A form of Jim Crow
Spirit and freedom
Gone
No longer
Beautiful
Majestic
Wild
Now just
Four legged robots
The work of the devil
MAN
We struggle with it
under many names;
we all feel the tension
and the tug-
how can I as a child
learn equality
and go to work
where
equality dies
in  the bureaucracy-
a lonely stepchild?
Where in the hierarchical
schema chart
does Freedom live?
Where is Justice
in the work place Meeting With Staff?
No, we all have bosses
and contemplate each day
where do my child-learned
ideals fit?
I will tell you;
in the Water Cooler Gossip Group.
There is where Justice is done
complaints are vented,
where equality before the H2O
is talked about and dispensed.
How can
what I learned democracy is
be banned from my work space?
How can Fairness and Morality
be slaughtered like the lamb
in the hierarchy?
We have revolutions not because of the
ruling class
but because of the anger exposed
and felt
before the Water-Cooler Deity;
where
shock and awe
exist,
where plots and plans
from the latest
gossip-tidbit
to strategic strategies shared
among participants
who like soldiers and couriers
make sure to dispense
each bon mot and redemption
far and wide
among those who did not make
the morning
Water-Cooler Meet.
True community
exists here,
at Water Cooler Church
complete
with the Paper Water Cooler
Communion Cup.
Drink up-
Salvation is Coming.
Truths long concealed
bubble up
Truthiness is clear like
Evian
and we drink it down
and steeled,
return
to that cubicle space
for another run
at Demon Boss
who hovers
overhead;
the Lufiwaulfe;
verbal bombs and
critiques
in the bomb bay
ready for release.
Excuse me
I need a drink.
Can't stand too much more
of this Faux-Equality.
WHAT are we set on earth for ? Say, to toil;
Nor seek to leave thy tending of the vines
For all the heat o' the day, till it declines,
And Death's mild curfew shall from work assoil.
God did anoint thee with his odorous oil,
To wrestle, not to reign; and He assigns
All thy tears over, like pure crystallines,
For younger fellow-workers of the soil
To wear for amulets. So others shall
Take patience, labor, to their heart and hand
From thy hand and thy heart and thy brave cheer,
And God's grace fructify through thee to
The least flower with a brimming cup may stand,
And share its dew-drop with another near.
Let me but do my work from day to day,
In field or forest, at the desk or loom,
In roaring market-place or tranquil room;
Let me but find it in my heart to say,
When vagrant wishes beckon me astray,
"This is my work; my blessing, not my doom;
"Of all who live, I am the one by whom
"This work can best be done in the right way."
Then shall I see it not too great, nor small,
To suit my spirit and to prove my powers;
Then shall I cheerful greet the labouring hours,
And cheerful turn, when the long shadows fall
At eventide, to play and love and rest,
Because I know for me my work is best.
Work is the curse of the working class
The rich just bide their time
Work gives riches to all but me
The rich just get by fine
Work is the cures of the working class
The ratio is not clear
The rich get most of all that’s earnt
The worker just little I fear
The worker is not a happy soul
The rich sit back in glee
And if he gets but half a chance
they’ll take everything from me
If I get rich I would like to think
That wealth I would want to share
But something tells me when you’re rich
You never seem to care
So all I ask is half a chance
To prove that theory wrong
Give me half a million quid
And see how I get along
No’ give me two’ no give me three
Sod it give me four
Just look what happens when you’re rich
You’re always wanting more
So maybe work will keep me down
My feet firm on the floor
I have my wife my health my kids
Who could ask for more.
A work
is an act
of exerting
an effort
to accomplish
something,
with dedication
and enthusiasm.
Do you work?
When twenty-one I loved to dream,
And was to loafing well inclined;
Somehow I couldn't get up steam
To welcome work of any kind.
While students burned the midnight lamp,
With dour ambition as their goad,
I longed to be a gayful tramp
And greet adventure on the road.
But now that sixty years have sped,
Behold! I toil from morn to night.
The thoughts that teem into my head
I pray: God give me time to write.
With eager and unflagging pen
No drudgery of desk I shirk,
And preach to all retiring men
The gospel of unceasing work.
And yet I do not sadly grieve
Such squandering of golden days;
For from my dreaming I believe
Have stemmed my least unworthy lays.
Aye, toil is best when all is said,
As age has made me understand . . .
So fitly fold, when I am dead,
A pencil in my hand.
Margaret Alice did not master e-filing,
her electronic tax form was all wrong,
the tax office sent her a note come fix
your e-filing form; this morning I went
Took my place on a chair, as the first guy
vacated his chair we all hopped up like
Jack-in-the-box to move to the next
one – I nearly stuck out my tongue
Then my turn at the big desk, got to see
Mr Phaswana, first name Elvis, told him
of the Pratchett I was clutching while
still chuckling,
Elvis retyped my e-filing form to make it
conform to the norm; more people arriving
hopping up and down, making the game
even better to watch
All the while Elvis typed away while
explaining he’d love to learn French
some day – and voilà, before long
the form was done and the tax ghost
Was laid for 2007 – next year the struggle
will begin again, combating e-filing, but
until then – freedom, comrades, freedom
for me; thank you Elvis – most heartily!
1. Fun
Why would the sum of Tolylfluanid and
Dimethylaminosulfotoluidide
be expressed as
Tolylfluanid?
Clearly Tolylfluanid is a he and
Dimethylaminosulfotoluidide
is a she, so the kid should
proudly carry the name
Of the father’s clan…
But I’m glad to report
the sum of Benomyl
and Carbendazim
is expressed as
Carbendazim
making the gender
question quite
superfluous
If you know
what I mean…
2. Last But Not Least – Prince Diazinon
I know, these impressive names could be
used in a Terry-Pratchett-type novel about
the Discworld - ancient families in the
Ramtops and learned scholars at Magic
University, though Mustrum Ridcully
will always be my favourite, the library
baboon definitely a firm second, as
well as Lord Vetinirari
Let’s look at the fabulous list of families:
Mr and Mrs Azoxystrobin, young Chlorfenapyr,
The beautiful Isabella Folpet, Madame Iprodione,
she’d have to be the seamstresses’ leader, I think
Professor Lambda-Cyhalothrin,
That mad Hatter of a guy called Maleic Hydrazide,
Little Metalaxyl, and last but not least –
Prince Diazinon…
The Lord has work for all to do, prepared good works for me and you.
A work that is intended to Glorify, the One who on the cross had died.
Jesus’ work accomplished for all, man’s redemption from Adam’s fall.
Christ’s finished work for all of us, a work in which we place our trust.
And nothing can be added to, His work accomplished for me and you.
For salvation is a gift of Grace, secured when Jesus died in our place.
No righteous works on our part; it was all of Christ right from the start.
Christ’s finished work on that cross, alone is what saves sinners lost.
The work prepared for us you see, is to point others towards Eternity.
As God will use you in many ways, as you live out your earthly days.
God above can use most any skill, as it’s tempered by His loving will,
Pointing other men to Jesus Christ, as The Holy Spirit leads your life.
This work was prepared long before, anybody knew Christ was Lord.
An Eternal Plan by The Lord above, and centered on a cross of Love.
Where Christ Jesus paid the price, by offering Himself as a sacrifice.
For a body was prepared for Him, as the atonement for all of our sin.
Now for us the work to be done, is to lead all men to God’s Only Son.
What better work could there be, than in helping other people to see,
That The Lord Jesus died for us, and in Him we must place our trust,
So when all earthly labors cease, with Him we’ll have Eternal Peace.
(Copyright ©03/2006)
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work:
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work, sleep, work, sleep,
Work.
Oh free me please with gentle ease
From work, sleep, work, sleep, work!
This odium, pounding tedium
Of my work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
Just whisk me off to lands afar
From work, sleep, work, sleep, work -
That grinding train of rhythmic pain
Called ‘Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.’
Poor neural circuits fizzle and pop
In work, sleep, work, sleep, work,
In trying to make some sense of all this
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
But Hark! I see a golden gleam -
A saving spirit of hope:
‘You’re fired! ’ He screams. What news to bear,
This wondrous hangman’s rope!
So now I’m free, released from all this
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work -
Eternal peace and rest for me, no
Work, sleep, work, sleep, work.
Drive my car wear my jewels
Make me feel like the king of fools.
Work that body
Work that body
Try not to hurt nobody
David loved Bathsheba, Samson loved Delilah
I love you and your name's Twyla.
Work that body
Work that body
Try not to hurt nobody
Life without love is empty and cruel
Without God's grace we remain a fool.
Work that body
Work that body
Try not to hurt nobody
After death I pray to go to Heaven
For I've been saved since I was eleven.
Work that body
Work that body
Try not to hurt nobody
Life can be short, life can be long
God sees all we do right or wrong.
Work that body
Work that body
Try not to hurt nobody
By Tom Zart
Most Published Poet On The Web!
Tom Zart www.internetvoicesradio.com/t_zart/
http: //www.veteranstodayforum.com/viewforum.php? f=38
Wake, work, home, eat sleep
This cycle keeps on and on
As the time it takes is so long
Wake, work, home, eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
This cycle don't seem at all to end
All your life in work you seem to spend
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
You start to see your life is slipping away
As people no longer around you stay
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
I'm surprised now I'm even getting time to eat
It would be bliss to stop rest my feet
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
You doing so many hours you feel ill
And you keep doing the cycle still
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
People bosses customers just keep adding more
You start to long for sleep and to snore
Wake work home eat sleep
Wake work home eat sleep
Something drastic happens the cycle breaks
And that all that it really takes
Wake work home eat sleep no more.....
You WILL work till you're 70,
all you sloggers.
My government can't afford
to pay you a pension,
and I'd like to mention
I need my expenses
and recompenses.
And those poor young things
pushing buggies and things
need food
and fags
and we need to support the dads
(if we know who they are) .
Asylum seekers,
foreign speakers,
benefit tweakers
and the like
need a hike
into comfortable living.
So you'll need to be giving
your ALL
for all.
Poor dears,
no jobs or careers,
they can't live on fresh air, you know.
So off you go,
work till the grave.
We will shave
every penny off you.
I have people to support
and I don't want to be short
of a bob or two myself.
Gordon Black, MP.
Just off to claim my expenses. I'm entitled to mortgage payments on my mansion...em I mean house...in London. And I need to carpet my house in the country. My cars need replacing and how could I do all that on a measly MP's wages, I ask you?
Work Together*
Every creature on earth has feelings no matter the age
And the 'Go Getters' want to set their own stage
They forget how they got to be so smart
For they were taught by the older one's heart
We learn from our elders on what we should do
and we should all work together to see all things through
13 May 2008
*response to David's poem 'Old and New'
thanks for the inspiration Big Bruv: O)
All Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair--
The bees are stirring--birds are on the wing--
And WINTER slumbering in the open air,
Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring !
And I, the while, the sole unbusy thing,
Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing.
Yet well I ken the banks where Amaranths blow,
Have traced the fount whence streams of nectar flow.
Bloom, O ye Amaranths ! bloom for whom ye may,
For me ye bloom not ! Glide, rich streams, away !
With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll :
And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul ?
WORK WITHOUT HOPE draws nectar in a sieve,
And HOPE without an object cannot live.
Hammer closed the sale that day.
Your sweat man-profit of ways.
Work in the field, sun is hot.
Water boy, fast or maybe not.
Master wants more work today.
You have no real say.
What is the time of morn.
Sun down-fullmoon- work long.
Cant ever stop this pace.
Thought I was part of the human race.
More ships are comming ashore.
Work without pay-open door.
Man has found many ways.
Pet dogs and bones of may.
[GOOGLE: search, POEWHIT]
Work! Work! Work! And Reap!
Work! Work! Work! And Sleep!
Everyday most of we work
Some of us love to work
Some of us just want to rock
Some of us want to lie on a beach or take a walk
If we had our way, we could spend all day and talk
But work we all must
Or our lifestyles will go bust!
We may then have to readjust
To unacceptable standards of living in disgust
Work! Work! Work! And Reap!
Work! Work! Work! And Sleep!
We all have different professions
Some of us have silent confessions
We fancy someone at work with an obsession
Work is then fun with a passion until confusion
Work! Work! Work! And Reap!
Work! Work! Work! And Sleep!
There are jobs that are monotonous
The atmosphere is negatively outrageous
Nothing in the air signifies hilarious
Every single person is always very serious
Sometimes played at work
Is the kind of politics
That makes one quite sick
This is where the strong kick
Kick hardest the backside of the weak
But work we all must
Or our lifestyles will go bust!
As we find ourselves lost
And then try hard to readjust
So do we swallow?
Or is fighting back shallow
Will it leave in your pocket a dent that is hollow?
Or produce a scene labeled horror
Enough to leave you in tears of sorrow
I don't have all the answers
I know work is a living cancer
People at work ought to be a little nicer
Everyone needs to make a living including a dancer!
Copyright 2006 - Sylvia Chidi
Work is the means
Cessation of works
Is also a means.
Work and work
Work is ladder
Work is different
Parts of ladder.
Complete the works
And be perfect.
Work
What should be just play
Was turned into toil for pay.
The curse of sin they say.
Why do they lead us astray?
Worker's Pledge
Salt and sweat will rule my day.
I will work for my daily pay.
Myself will I never betray.
Limits
Humans will never know an earthly end
Ever striving higher, deeper, faster then
Never ready to breath a last amen.
Youth
Life - what about it do you care for most?
Living - isn’t that your only boast?
What later then will be your toast?
- May 19,2008
Work work and hard work
There is no substitute of hard work
Only by hard work you can earn money
And money is not a thing to believe
Money fetches good food
Virility beautiful wife and charity
And all above have no eternity.
Work in the morning
Work at noon
Work in the afternoon
and work in the night.
Work, work, work
One wakes up thinking of work
eating and planning for work
sleeping and dreaming of work.
Work, work, work
work with passion
work with obsession
derive joy from work
or take  work as the sole end.
Work, work, work
Give work the chance
never to rule over your life.
Work is only a tiny part
of who you are.
You work, work, work
To provide for, and to live,
Then you buy, buy, buy
You constantly spend and you give.
Then you work, work, work
Just to pay your bills and your debt,
You work, work, work
Until you are tired and you sweat.
You work to go on a vacation
For relaxation and some thrills,
But, then when you return home
You have more debt and even more bills.
So, you work, work, work
To find more stuff to buy,
Then you work, work, work
Until the day that you die.
Living, it is just a cycle
Life it is just a quest
You work, spend and buy
Then at the end of the day or life, you rest.
long walk at night
the breeze freezes my spirit
the moon warms it up
pulling at my poetic soul
the crickets sing their poems to the night
a million other insects contribute their share
to loosen up the night
for lovers, husbands and wives
while a tide of words too
creeps in all directions in my mental sphere
saturates the poetic bar of the intellect
waiting to be strummed into verses
the rhythm swims along with them
as i write out verse by verse
the moon my friend shares its light
the night wind inspires
lovelorn stars wave all the way
a million light years away
heralding the birth of a song
sparkling, twinkling
guided by intricate orchestration of the night
before gracing the written page
long walk in the night
even the insects with the lamps
start to lend me their lights
between the twinke of the stars
they dance, sing, beat out a dance
When that rich soul which to her heaven is gone,
Whom all do celebrate, who know they have one
(For who is sure he hath a soul, unless
It see, and judge, and follow worthiness,
And by deeds praise it? He who doth not this,
May lodge an inmate soul, but 'tis not his)
When that queen ended here her progress time,
And, as t'her standing house, to heaven did climb,
Where loath to make the saints attend her long,
She's now a part both of the choir, and song;
This world, in that great earthquake languished;
For in a common bath of tears it bled,
Which drew the strongest vital spirits out;
But succour'd then with a perplexed doubt,
Whether the world did lose, or gain in this,
(Because since now no other way there is,
But goodness, to see her, whom all would see,
All must endeavour to be good as she)
This great consumption to a fever turn'd,
And so the world had fits; it joy'd, it mourn'd;
And, as men think, that agues physic are,
And th' ague being spent, give over care,
So thou, sick world, mistak'st thy self to be
Well, when alas, thou'rt in a lethargy.
Her death did wound and tame thee then, and then
Thou might'st have better spar'd the sun, or man.
That wound was deep, but 'tis more misery
That thou hast lost thy sense and memory.
'Twas heavy then to hear thy voice of moan,
But this is worse, that thou art speechless grown.
Thou hast forgot thy name thou hadst; thou wast
Nothing but she, and her thou hast o'erpast.
For, as a child kept from the font until
A prince, expected long, come to fulfill
The ceremonies, thou unnam'd had'st laid,
Had not her coming, thee her palace made;
Her name defin'd thee, gave thee form, and frame,
And thou forget'st to celebrate thy name.
Some months she hath been dead (but being dead,
Measures of times are all determined)
But long she'ath been away, long, long, yet none
Offers to tell us who it is that's gone.
But as in states doubtful of future heirs,
When sickness without remedy impairs
The present prince, they're loath it should be said,
'The prince doth languish,' or 'The prince is dead;'
So mankind feeling now a general thaw,
A strong example gone, equal to law,
The cement which did faithfully compact
And glue all virtues, now resolv'd, and slack'd,
Thought it some blasphemy to say sh'was dead,
Or that our weakness was discovered
In that confession; therefore spoke no more
Than tongues, the soul being gone, the loss deplore.
But though it be too late to succour thee,
Sick world, yea dead, yea putrified, since she
Thy' intrinsic balm, and thy preservative,
Can never be renew'd, thou never live,
I (since no man can make thee live) will try,
What we may gain by thy anatomy.
Her death hath taught us dearly that thou art
Corrupt and mortal in thy purest part.
Let no man say, the world itself being dead,
'Tis labour lost to have discovered
The world's infirmities, since there is none
Alive to study this dissection;
For there's a kind of world remaining still,
Though she which did inanimate and fill
The world, be gone, yet in this last long night,
Her ghost doth walk; that is a glimmering light,
A faint weak love of virtue, and of good,
Reflects from her on them which understood
Her worth; and though she have shut in all day,
The twilight of her memory doth stay,
Which, from the carcass of the old world free,
Creates a new world, and new creatures be
Produc'd. The matter and the stuff of this,
Her virtue, and the form our practice is.
And though to be thus elemented, arm
These creatures from home-born intrinsic harm,
(For all assum'd unto this dignity
So many weedless paradises be,
Which of themselves produce no venomous sin,
Except some foreign serpent bring it in)
Yet, because outward storms the strongest break,
And strength itself by confidence grows weak,
This new world may be safer, being told
The dangers and diseases of the old;
For with due temper men do then forgo,
Or covet things, when they their true worth know.
There is no health; physicians say that we
At best enjoy but a neutrality.
And can there be worse sickness than to know
That we are never well, nor can be so?
We are born ruinous: poor mothers cry
That children come not right, nor orderly;
Except they headlong come and fall upon
An ominous precipitation.
How witty's ruin! how importunate
Upon mankind! It labour'd to frustrate
Even God's purpose; and made woman, sent
For man's relief, cause of his languishment.
They were to good ends, and they are so still,
But accessory, and principal in ill,
For that first marriage was our funeral;
One woman at one blow, then kill'd us all,
And singly, one by one, they kill us now.
We do delightfully our selves allow
To that consumption; and profusely blind,
We kill our selves to propagate our kind.
And yet we do not that; we are not men;
There is not now that mankind, which was then,
When as the sun and man did seem to strive,
(Joint tenants of the world) who should survive;
When stag, and raven, and the long-liv'd tree,
Compar'd with man, died in minority;
When, if a slow-pac'd star had stol'n away
From the observer's marking, he might stay
Two or three hundred years to see't again,
And then make up his observation plain;
When, as the age was long, the size was great
(Man's growth confess'd, and recompens'd the meat),
So spacious and large, that every soul
Did a fair kingdom, and large realm control;
And when the very stature, thus erect,
Did that soul a good way towards heaven direct.
Where is this mankind now? Who lives to age,
Fit to be made Methusalem his page?
Alas, we scarce live long enough to try
Whether a true-made clock run right, or lie.
Old grandsires talk of yesterday with sorrow,
And for our children we reserve tomorrow.
So short is life, that every peasant strives,
In a torn house, or field, to have three lives.
And as in lasting, so in length is man
Contracted to an inch, who was a span;
For had a man at first in forests stray'd,
Or shipwrack'd in the sea, one would have laid
A wager, that an elephant, or whale,
That met him, would not hastily assail
A thing so equall to him; now alas,
The fairies, and the pigmies well may pass
As credible; mankind decays so soon,
We'are scarce our fathers' shadows cast at noon,
Only death adds t'our length: nor are we grown
In stature to be men, till we are none.
But this were light, did our less volume hold
All the old text; or had we chang'd to gold
Their silver; or dispos'd into less glass
Spirits of virtue, which then scatter'd was.
But 'tis not so; w'are not retir'd, but damp'd;
And as our bodies, so our minds are cramp'd;
'Tis shrinking, not close weaving, that hath thus
In mind and body both bedwarfed us.
We seem ambitious, God's whole work t'undo;
Of nothing he made us, and we strive too,
To bring our selves to nothing back; and we
Do what we can, to do't so soon as he.
With new diseases on our selves we war,
And with new physic, a worse engine far.
Thus man, this world's vice-emperor, in whom
All faculties, all graces are at home
(And if in other creatures they appear,
They're but man's ministers and legates there
To work on their rebellions, and reduce
Them to civility, and to man's use);
This man, whom God did woo, and loath t'attend
Till man came up, did down to man descend,
This man, so great, that all that is, is his,
O what a trifle, and poor thing he is!
If man were anything, he's nothing now;
Help, or at least some time to waste, allow
T'his other wants, yet when he did depart
With her whom we lament, he lost his heart.
She, of whom th'ancients seem'd to prophesy,
When they call'd virtues by the name of she;
She in whom virtue was so much refin'd,
That for alloy unto so pure a mind
She took the weaker sex; she that could drive
The poisonous tincture, and the stain of Eve,
Out of her thoughts, and deeds, and purify
All, by a true religious alchemy,
She, she is dead; she's dead: when thou knowest this,
Thou knowest how poor a trifling thing man is,
And learn'st thus much by our anatomy,
The heart being perish'd, no part can be free,
And that except thou feed (not banquet) on
The supernatural food, religion,
Thy better growth grows withered, and scant;
Be more than man, or thou'rt less than an ant.
Then, as mankind, so is the world's whole frame
Quite out of joint, almost created lame,
For, before God had made up all the rest,
Corruption ent'red, and deprav'd the best;
It seiz'd the angels, and then first of all
The world did in her cradle take a fall,
And turn'd her brains, and took a general maim,
Wronging each joint of th'universal frame.
The noblest part, man, felt it first; and then
Both beasts and plants, curs'd in the curse of man.
So did the world from the first hour decay,
That evening was beginning of the day,
And now the springs and summers which we see,
Like sons of women after fifty be.
And new philosophy calls all in doubt,
The element of fire is quite put out,
The sun is lost, and th'earth, and no man's wit
Can well direct him where to look for it.
And freely men confess that this world's spent,
When in the planets and the firmament
They seek so many new; they see that this
Is crumbled out again to his atomies.
'Tis all in pieces, all coherence gone,
All just supply, and all relation;
Prince, subject, father, son, are things forgot,
For every man alone thinks he hath got
To be a phoenix, and that then can be
None of that kind, of which he is, but he.
This is the world's condition now, and now
She that should all parts to reunion bow,
She that had all magnetic force alone,
To draw, and fasten sund'red parts in one;
She whom wise nature had invented then
When she observ'd that every sort of men
Did in their voyage in this world's sea stray,
And needed a new compass for their way;
She that was best and first original
Of all fair copies, and the general
Steward to fate; she whose rich eyes and breast
Gilt the West Indies, and perfum'd the East;
Whose having breath'd in this world, did bestow
Spice on those Isles, and bade them still smell so,
And that rich India which doth gold inter,
Is but as single money, coin'd from her;
She to whom this world must it self refer,
As suburbs or the microcosm of her,
She, she is dead; she's dead: when thou know'st this,
Thou know'st how lame a cripple this world is
....
Long walks at night--
that's what good for the soul:
peeking into windows
watching tired housewives
trying to fight off
their beer-maddened husbands.
Is there a man who never ate
his daily bread with tears,
is there a man whose destined fate
led to the land of fears?
Is there a man who never loved
another human being,
is there a surgeon, scrubbed and gloved
who operates unseeing?
Is there a man who steals and robs
who hesitates but kills,
a killer who so loudly sobs
about all mankind's ills?
Is there a man good in his heart
who will not compromise,
or is he just another tart
a man made up of lies?
Is there a God, so good and pure
a holy, but free   sample,
that he could guarantee a cure
by heavenly example?
Are all the Gods up in their sky
completely apathetic,
and are they of indifferent eye
besmirched by anaesthetic?
Is there a world that we foresee
that could approach perfection,
or does the fault lie painfully
with faulty gene selection?
There is no God, no world, no man
who'd make us only proud,
we need a new God, one who can
come down from his high cloud.
A God who doesn't sit and snicker
about our bad behaviour,
nor raise his finger, scold and bicker,
can we please have a saviour?
And will He pardon my advice
to scrap all DNA
and I don't care if this defies
the rules He may obey.
Is there in all the universe
a bigger, sadder mess,
if not perhaps He could rehearse
new plans, where best is less.
'Cause I am certain He does know
this world must be destroyed,
all new ones will be pure, and glow
forever overjoyed.
No blame shall fall upon Him then
for all the hasty dealings
He did when He created men
Good luck, God, no hard feelings.
This life is a hospital where every patient is possessed with the desire to change beds; one man would like to
suffer in front of the stove, and another believes that he would recover his health beside the window.
It always seems to me that I should feel well in the place where I am not, and this question of removal is one
which I discuss incessantly with my soul.
'Tell me, my soul, poor chilled soul, what do you think of going to live in Lisbon? It must be warm there, and there
you would invigorate yourself like a lizard. This city is on the sea-shore; they say that it is built of marble
and that the people there have such a hatred of vegetation that they uproot all the trees. There you have a landscape
that corresponds to your taste! a landscape made of light and mineral, and liquid to reflect them!'
My soul does not reply.
'Since you are so fond of stillness, coupled with the show of movement, would you like to settle in Holland,
that beatifying country? Perhaps you would find some diversion in that land whose image you have so often admired
in the art galleries. What do you think of Rotterdam, you who love forests of masts, and ships moored at the foot of
houses?'
My soul remains silent.
'Perhaps Batavia attracts you more? There we should find, amongst other things, the spirit of Europe
married to tropical beauty.'
Not a word. Could my soul be dead?
'Is it then that you have reached such a degree of lethargy that you acquiesce in your sickness? If so, let us
flee to lands that are analogues of death. I see how it is, poor soul! We shall pack our trunks for Tornio. Let us go
farther still to the extreme end of the Baltic; or farther still from life, if that is possible; let us settle at the Pole. There
the sun only grazes the earth obliquely, and the slow alternation of light and darkness suppresses variety and
increases monotony, that half-nothingness. There we shall be able to take long baths of darkness, while for our
amusement the aurora borealis shall send us its rose-coloured rays that are like the reflection of Hell's own
fireworks!'
At last my soul explodes, and wisely cries out to me: 'No matter where! No matter where! As long as it's out
of the world!'
ALCESTIS
Shall I never make him look at me again?
I look at him, I look my life at him,
I tell him all I know the way to tell,
But there he stays the same.
Shall I never make him speak one word to me?
Shall I never make him say enough to show
My heart if he be glad? Be glad? … ah! God,
Why did they bring me back?
I wonder, if I go to him again,
If I take him by those two cold hands again,
Shall I get one look of him at last, or feel
One sign—or anything?
Or will he still sit there in the same way,
Without an answer for me from his lips,
Or from his eyes,—or even with a touch
Of his hand on my hand?…
“Will you look down this once—look down at me?
Speak once—and if you never speak again,
Tell me enough—tell me enough to make
Me know that you are glad!
“You are my King, and once my King would speak:
You were Admetus once, you loved me once:
Life was a dream of heaven for us once—
And has the dream gone by?
“Do I cling to shadows when I call you Life?
Do you love me still, or are the shadows all?
Or is it I that love you in the grave,
And you that mourn for me?
“If it be that, then do not mourn for me;
Be glad that I have loved you, and be King.
But if it be not that—if it be true …
Tell me if it be true!”
Then with a choking answer the King spoke;
But never touched his hand on hers, or fixed
His eyes on hers, or on the face of her:
“Yes, it is true,” he said.
“You are alive, and you are with me now;
And you are reaching up to me that I—
That I may take you—I that am a King—
I that was once a man."
So then she knew. She might have known before;
Truly, she thought, she must have known it long
Before: she must have known it when she came
From that great sleep of hers.
She knew the truth, but not yet all of it:
He loved her, but he would not let his eyes
Prove that he loved her; and he would not hold
His wife there in his arms.
So, like a slave, she waited at his knees,
And waited. She was not unhappy now.
She quivered, but she knew that he would speak
Again—and he did speak.
And while she felt the tremor of his words,
He told her all there was for him to tell;
And then he turned his face to meet her face,
That she might look at him.
She looked; and all her trust was in that look,
And all her faith was in it, and her love;
And when his answer to that look came back,
It flashed back through his tears.
So then she put her arms around his neck,
And kissed him on his forehead and his lips;
And there she clung, fast in his arms again,
Triumphant, with closed eyes.
At last, half whispering, she spoke once more:
“Why was it that you suffered for so long?
Why could you not believe me—trust in me?
Was I so strange as that?
“We suffer when we do not understand;
And you have suffered—you that love me now—
Because you are a man.… There is one thing
No man can understand.
“I would have given everything?—gone down
To Tartarus—to silence? Was it that?
I would have died? I would have let you live?—
And was it very strange?”
A shadow is a second fiddle
and always feels inferior
it tries to reach the golden middle
of things in the interior
but is condemned to stay outside
can't mix it with the boys
can only  come along to ride
like ragged children's toys.
A shadow has no real life
it is a saprophyte
though if you try to use a knife
cut loose this parasite
you'll find that no amount of prying
can kill this sad reflection
so now you know, there's no denying
you add to your collection
of fans and others who adore
your talent and your wit
a shadow sticks for evermore
it really is a zit
that needs supply from the outside
of nutrients to eat
it lives in layers of your hide
and draws your body heat
and when its life comes to an end
it shrivels up and dies
a shadow hovers to offend
and when rebuffed  it cries
a zit is born with intellect
a shadow pretty dumb
the former would be a defect
the latter is a bum
who wants a handout from his host
that's why he never leaves
and clings to you just like a ghost
all shadows then are thieves.
A word of warning to you now
don't ever shadow-box
your shadow knows exactly how
he's agile as a fox
Then what, you ask is there to do
to make you shadow-free
you show him he has no IQ
and he will leave you be.
The tall camels of the spirit
Steer for their deserts, passing the last groves loud
With the sawmill shrill of the locust, to the whole honey of the
arid
Sun.  They are slow,  proud,
And move with a stilted stride
To the land of sheer horizon, hunting Traherne's
Sensible emptiness, there where the brain's lantern-slide
Revels in vast returns.
O connoisseurs of thirst,
Beasts of my soul who long to learn to drink
Of pure mirage, those prosperous islands are accurst
That shimmer on the brink
Of absence; auras, lustres,
And all shinings need to be shaped and borne.
Think of those painted saints, capped by the early masters
With bright, jauntily-worn
Aureate plates, or even
Merry-go-round rings.  Turn, O turn
From the fine sleights of the sand, from the long empty oven
Where flames in flamings burn
Back to the trees arrayed
In bursts of glare, to the halo-dialing run
Of the country creeks, and the hills' bracken tiaras made
Gold in the sunken sun,
Wisely watch for the sight
Of the supernova burgeoning over the barn,
Lampshine blurred in the steam of beasts, the spirit's right
Oasis, light incarnate.
I wish I could take a quiet corner in the heart of my baby's very
own world.
I know it has stars that talk to him, and a sky that stoops
down to his face to amuse him with its silly clouds and rainbows.
Those who make believe to be dumb, and look as if they never
could move, come creeping to his window with their stories and with
trays crowded with bright toys.
I wish I could travel by the road that crosses baby's mind,
and out beyond all bounds;
Where messengers run errands for no cause between the kingdoms
of kings of no history;
Where Reason makes kites of her laws and flies them, the Truth
sets Fact free from its fetters.
If I make the lashes dark
And the eyes more bright
And the lips more scarlet,
Or ask if all be right
From mirror after mirror,
No vanity's displayed:
I'm looking for the face I had
Before the world was made.
What if I look upon a man
As though on my beloved,
And my blood be cold the while
And my heart unmoved?
Why should he think me cruel
Or that he is betrayed?
I'd have him love the thing that was
Before the world was made.
One spoke: "Come, let us gaily go
With laughter, love and lust,
Since in a century or so
We'll all be boneyard dust.
When unborn shadows hold the screen,
(Our betters, I'll allow)
'Twill be as if we'd never been,
A hundred years from now.
When we have played life's lively game
Right royally we'll rot,
And not a soul will care a damn
The why or how we fought;
To grub for gold or grab for fame
Or raise a holy row,
It will be all the bloody same
A hundred years from now."
Said I: "Look! I have built a tower
Upon you lonely hill,
Designed to be a daughter's dower,
Yet when my heart is still,
The stone I set with horny hand
And salty sweat of brow,
A record of my strength will sand
A hundred years from now.
"There's nothing lost and nothing vain
In all this world so wide;
The ocean hoards each drop of rain
To swell its sweeping tide;
The desert seeks each grain of sand
It's empire to endow,
And we a bright brave world have planned
A hundred years from now.
And all we are and all we do
Will bring that world to be;
Our strain and pain let us not rue,
Though other eyes shall see;
For other hearts will bravely beat
And lips will sing of how
We strove to make life sane and sweet
A hundred years from now.
No longer of Him be it said
"He hath no place to lay His head."
In every land a constant lamp
Flames by His small and mighty camp.
There is no strange and distant place
That is not gladdened by His face.
And every nation kneels to hail
The Splendour shining through Its veil.
Cloistered beside the shouting street,
Silent, He calls me to His feet.
Imprisoned for His love of me
He makes my spirit greatly free.
And through my lips that uttered sin
The King of Glory enters in.
THREE summers have gone since the first time we met, love,
And still 'tis in vain that I ask thee to wed ;
I hear no reply but a gentle " Not yet, love,"
With a smile of your lip, and a shake of your head.
Ah ! how oft have I whispered, how oft have I sued thee,
And breathed my soul's question of " When shall it be ?"
You know, dear, how long and how truly I've wooed thee,
So don't tell the world that you're waiting for me.
I have fashioned a home, where the fairies might dwell, love,
I've planted the myrtle, the rose, and the vine ;
But the cottage to me is a mere hermit's cell, love,
And the bloom will be dull till the flowers are thine.
I've a ring of bright gold, which I gaze on when lonely,
And sigh with Hope's eloquence, " When will it be ?"
There needs but thy " Yes," love--one little word only,
So don't tell the world that you're waiting for me.
Doth then the world go thus? doth all thus move?
Is this the justice which on earth we find?
Is this that firm decree which all doth bind?
Are these your influences, Powers above?
Those souls, which vice's moody mists most blind,
Blind Fortune, blindly, most their friend doth prove;
And they who thee, poor idol Virtue! love,
Ply like a feather tossed by storm and wind.
Ah! if a Providence doth sway this all,
Why should best minds groan under most distress?
Or why should pride humility make thrall,
And injuries the innocent oppress?
Heavens! hinder, stop this fate; or grant a time
When good may have, as well as bad, their prime!
Here lies the body of this world,
Whose soul alas to hell is hurled.
This golden youth long since was past,
Its silver manhood went as fast,
An iron age drew on at last;
'Tis vain its character to tell,
The several fates which it befell,
What year it died, when 'twill arise,
We only know that here it lies.
God fashioned the ship of the world carefully.
With the infinite skill of an All-Master
Made He the hull and the sails,
Held He the rudder
Ready for adjustment.
Erect stood He, scanning His work proudly.
Then -- at fateful time -- a wrong called,
And God turned, heeding.
Lo, the ship, at this opportunity, slipped slyly,
Making cunning noiseless travel down the ways.
So that, forever rudderless, it went upon the seas
Going ridiculous voyages,
Making quaint progress,
Turning as with serious purpose
Before stupid winds.
And there were many in the sky
Who laughed at this thing.
O world, I cannot hold thee close enough!
Thy winds, thy wide grey skies!
Thy mists that roll and rise!
Thy woods this autumn day, that ache and sag
And all but cry with colour! That gaunt crag
To crush! To lift the lean of that black bluff!
World, World, I cannot get thee close enough!
Long have I known a glory in it all,
But never knew I this;
Here such a passion is
As stretcheth me apart, -- Lord, I do fear
Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year;
My soul is all but out of me, -- let fall
No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call.
Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful World,
With the wonderful water round you curled,
And the wonderful grass upon your breast--
World, you are beautifully drest.
The wonderful air is over me,
And the wonderful wind is shaking the tree,
It walks on the water, and whirls the mills,
And talks to itself on the tops of the hills.
You friendly Earth! how far do you go,
With the wheat-fields that nod and the rivers that flow,
With cities and gardens, and cliffs, and isles,
And people upon you for thousands of miles?
Ah, you are so great, and I am so small,
I tremble to think of you, World, at all;
And yet, when I said my prayers to-day,
A whisper inside me seemed to say,
"You are more than the Earth, though you are such a dot:
You can love and think, and the Earth cannot!"
I am a little world made cunningly
Of elements, and an angelic sprite;
But black sin hath betrayed to endless night
My worlds both parts, and (oh!) both parts must die.
You which beyond that heaven which was most high
Have found new spheres, and of new lands can write,
Pour new seas in mine eyes, that so I might
Drown my world with my weeping earnestly,
Or wash it if it must be drowned no more:
But oh it must be burnt! alas the fire
Of lust and envy have burnt it heretofore,
And made it fouler: Let their flames retire,
And burn me, O Lord, with a fiery zeal
Of Thee and Thy house, which doth in eating heal.
I am a little world made cunningly
Of Elements, and an Angelike spright,
But black sinne hath betraid to endlesse night
My worlds both parts, and (oh) both parts must die.
You which beyond that heaven which was most high
Have found new sphears, and of new lands can write,
Powre new seas in mine eyes, that so I might
Drowne my world with my weeping earnestly,
Or wash it if it must be drown'd no more;
But oh it must be burnt! alas the fire
Of lust and envie have burnt it heretofore,
And made it fouler; Let their flames retire,
And burne me o Lord, with a fiery zeale
Of thee and thy house, which doth in eating heale.
I am much too alone in this world, yet not alone
enough
to truly consecrate the hour.
I am much too small in this world, yet not small
enough
to be to you just object and thing,
dark and smart.
I want my free will and want it accompanying
the path which leads to action;
and want during times that beg questions,
where something is up,
to be among those in the know,
or else be alone.
I want to mirror your image to its fullest perfection,
never be blind or too old
to uphold your weighty wavering reflection.
I want to unfold.
Nowhere I wish to stay crooked, bent;
for there I would be dishonest, untrue.
I want my conscience to be
true before you;
want to describe myself like a picture I observed
for a long time, one close up,
like a new word I learned and embraced,
like the everday jug,
like my mother's face,
like a ship that carried me along
through the deadliest storm.
"If all the world were paper
And all the sea were ink,
If all the trees were bread and cheese
What would we do for drink?
If all the world were sand O,
Oh then what should we lack O,
if as they say there were no clay
How should we take Tobacco?
If all our vessels ran-a,
If none but had a crack-a,
If Spanish apes ate all the grapes
How should we do for sack-a?
If all the world were men
And men lived all in trenches,
And there were none but we alone,
How should we do for wenches?
If friars had no bald pates
Nor nuns had no dark cloisters,
If all the seas were beans and peas
How should we do for oysters?
If there had been no projects
Nor none that did great wrongs,
If fiddlers shall turn players all
How should we do for songs?
If all things were eternal
And nothing their end bringing,
If this should be, then how should we
Here make an end of singing?
"If all the world were paper
And all the sea were ink,
If all the trees were bread and cheese
What would we do for drink?
If all the world were sand O,
Oh then what should we lack O,
if as they say there were no clay
How should  we take Tobacco?
If all our vessels ran-a,
If none but had a crack-a,
If Spanish apes ate all the grapes
How should we do for  sack-a?
If all the world were men
And men lived all in  trenches,
And there were none but we alone,
How should we do for wenches?
If friars had no bald pates
Nor nuns had no dark  cloisters,
If all the seas were beans and peas
How should we do for oysters?
If there had been no projects
Nor none that did  great wrongs,
If fiddlers shall turn players all
How should we do for songs?
If all things were eternal
And nothing their end bringing,
If this should be, then how should we
Here make an end of singing?
If I were in charge of the world
I'd cancel oatmeal,
Monday mornings,
Allergy shots, and also Sara Steinberg.
If I were in charge of the world
There'd be brighter nights lights,
Healthier hamsters, and
Basketball baskets forty eight inches lower.
If I were in charge of the world
You wouldn't have lonely.
You wouldn't have clean.
You wouldn't have bedtimes.
Or "Don't punch your sister."
You wouldn't even have sisters.
If I were in charge of the world
A chocolate sundae with whipped cream and nuts would be a vegetable
All 007 movies would be G,
And a person who sometimes forgot to brush,
And sometimes forgot to flush,
Would still be allowed to be
In charge of the world.
The world is narrow and ways are short, and our lives are dull and slow,
For little is new where the crowds resort, and less where the wanderers go;
Greater, or smaller, the same old things we see by the dull road-side --
And tired of all is the spirit that sings
of the days when the world was wide.
When the North was hale in the march of Time,
and the South and the West were new,
And the gorgeous East was a pantomime, as it seemed in our boyhood's view;
When Spain was first on the waves of change,
and proud in the ranks of pride,
And all was wonderful, new and strange in the days when the world was wide.
Then a man could fight if his heart were bold,
and win if his faith were true --
Were it love, or honour, or power, or gold, or all that our hearts pursue;
Could live to the world for the family name, or die for the family pride,
Could fly from sorrow, and wrong, and shame
in the days when the world was wide.
They sailed away in the ships that sailed ere science controlled the main,
When the strong, brave heart of a man prevailed
as 'twill never prevail again;
They knew not whither, nor much they cared --
let Fate or the winds decide --
The worst of the Great Unknown they dared
in the days when the world was wide.
They raised new stars on the silent sea that filled their hearts with awe;
They came to many a strange countree and marvellous sights they saw.
The villagers gaped at the tales they told,
and old eyes glistened with pride --
When barbarous cities were paved with gold
in the days when the world was wide.
'Twas honest metal and honest wood, in the days of the Outward Bound,
When men were gallant and ships were good -- roaming the wide world round.
The gods could envy a leader then when `Follow me, lads!' he cried --
They faced each other and fought like men
in the days when the world was wide.
They tried to live as a freeman should -- they were happier men than we,
In the glorious days of wine and blood, when Liberty crossed the sea;
'Twas a comrade true or a foeman then, and a trusty sword well tried --
They faced each other and fought like men
in the days when the world was wide.
The good ship bound for the Southern seas when the beacon was Ballarat,
With a `Ship ahoy!' on the freshening breeze,
`Where bound?' and `What ship's that?' --
The emigrant train to New Mexico -- the rush to the Lachlan Side --
Ah! faint is the echo of Westward Ho!
from the days when the world was wide.
South, East, and West in advance of Time -- and, ay! in advance of Thought
Those brave men rose to a height sublime -- and is it for this they fought?
And is it for this damned life we praise the god-like spirit that died
At Eureka Stockade in the Roaring Days
with the days when the world was wide?
We fight like women, and feel as much; the thoughts of our hearts we guard;
Where scarcely the scorn of a god could touch,
the sneer of a sneak hits hard;
The treacherous tongue and cowardly pen, the weapons of curs, decide --
They faced each other and fought like men
in the days when the world was wide.
Think of it all -- of the life that is!  Study your friends and foes!
Study the past!  And answer this:  `Are these times better than those?'
The life-long quarrel, the paltry spite, the sting of your poisoned pride!
No matter who fell it were better to fight
as they did when the world was wide.
Boast as you will of your mateship now -- crippled and mean and sly --
The lines of suspicion on friendship's brow
were traced since the days gone by.
There was room in the long, free lines of the van
to fight for it side by side --
There was beating-room for the heart of a man
in the days when the world was wide.
.    .    .    .    .
With its dull, brown days of a-shilling-an-hour
the dreary year drags round:
Is this the result of Old England's power?
-- the bourne of the Outward Bound?
Is this the sequel of Westward Ho! -- of the days of Whate'er Betide?
The heart of the rebel makes answer `No!
We'll fight till the world grows wide!'
The world shall yet be a wider world -- for the tokens are manifest;
East and North shall the wrongs be hurled that followed us South and West.
The march of Freedom is North by the Dawn!  Follow, whate'er betide!
Sons of the Exiles, march!  March on!  March till the world grows wide!
Yo no naka wa kutte hako shite nete okite
Sate sono ato wa shinuru bakari zo
In this world of ours,
We eat only to cast out,
Sleep only to wake,
And what comes after all that
Is simply to die at last.
In this world
we walk on the roof of hell,
gazing at flowers.
Translated by Robert Hass
In this world all the flow'rs wither,
The sweet songs of the birds are brief;
I dream of summers that will last
Always!
In this world the lips touch but lightly,
And no taste of sweetness remains;
I dream of a kiss that will last
Always.
In this world ev'ry man is mourning
His lost friendship or his lost love;
I dream of fond lovers abiding
Always!
I SAW a new world in my dream,
Where all the folks alike did seem:
There was no Child, there was no Mother,
There was no Change, there was no Other.
For everything was Same, the Same;
There was no praise, there was no blame;
There was neither Need nor Help for it;
There was nothing fitting or unfit.
Nobody laugh’d, nobody wept;
None grew weary, so none slept;
There was nobody born, and nobody wed;
This world was a world of the living-dead.
I long’d to hear the Time-Clock strike
In the world where people were all alike;
I hated Same, I hated Forever;
I long’d to say Neither, or even Never.
I long’d to mend, I long’d to make;
I long’d to give, I long’d to take;
I long’d for a change, whatever came after,
I long’d for crying, I long’d for laughter.
At last I heard the Time-Clock boom,
And woke from my dream in my little room;
With a smile on her lips my Mother was nigh,
And I heard the Baby crow and cry.
And I thought to myself, How nice it is
For me to live in a world like this,
Where things can happen, and clocks can strike,
And none of the people are made alike;
Where Love wants this, and Pain wants that,
Where all our hearts want Tit for Tat
In the jumbles we make with our heads and our hands,
In a world that nobody understands,
But with work, and hope, and the right to call
Upon Him who sees it and knows us all!
I stood musing in a black world,
Not knowing where to direct my feet.
And I saw the quick stream of men
Pouring ceaselessly,
Filled with eager faces,
A torrent of desire.
I called to them,
"Where do you go? What do you see?"
A thousand voices called to me.
A thousand fingers pointed.
"Look! look! There!"
I know not of it.
But, lo! In the far sky shone a radiance
Ineffable, divine --
A vision painted upon a pall;
And sometimes it was,
And sometimes it was not.
I hesitated.
Then from the stream
Came roaring voices,
Impatient:
"Look! look! There!"
So again I saw,
And leaped, unhesitant,
And struggled and fumed
With outspread clutching fingers.
The hard hills tore my flesh;
The ways bit my feet.
At last I looked again.
No radiance in the far sky,
Ineffable, divine;
No vision painted upon a pall;
And always my eyes ached for the light.
Then I cried in despair,
"I see nothing! Oh, where do I go?"
The torrent turned again its faces:
"Look! look! There!"
And at the blindness of my spirit
They screamed,
"Fool! fool! fool!"
When you look for peace
then the peace lies within you
When you search for peace
then it is not hard to find
When you want to keep peace alive
then you allow white doves to fly over you
When you make peace with others
then the whole world live in your heart
When you let peace be in the world
then you live in wonderful world
When you allow peace flow around the world
then your hateness will go and love will flow
When you open the door for peace
then peace welcome to your lives.
Let the peace prevail in our wonderful world
Thou warden of the western gate, above Manhatten Bay,
The fogs of doubt that hid thy face are driven clean away:
Thine eyes at last look far and clear, thou liftest high thy hand
To spread the light of liberty world-wide for every land.
No more thou dreamest of a peace reserved alone for thee,
While friends are fighting for thy cause beyond the guardian sea:
The battle that they wage is thine; thou fallest if they fall;
The swollen flood of Prussian pride will sweep unchecked o'er all.
O cruel is the conquer-lust in Hohenzollern brains;
The paths they plot to gain their goal are dark with shameful stains:
No faith they keep, no law revere, no god but naked Might; --
They are the foemen of mankind. Up, Liberty, and smite!
Britain, and France, and Italy, and Russia newly born,
Have waited for thee in the night. Oh, come as comes the morn.
Serene and strong and full of faith, America, arise,
With steady hope and mighty help to join th brave Allies.
O dearest country of my heart, home of the high desire,
Make clean thy soul for sacrifice on Freedom's altar-fire:
For thou must suffer, thou must fight, until the warlords cease,
And all the peoples lift their heads in liberty and peace.
Children - are staring of eyes so frightful,
Mischievous legs on a wooden floor,
Children - is sun in the gloomy motives,
Hypotheses' of happy sciences world.
Eternal disorder in the ring's gold,
Tender word's whispers in semi-sleep,
On the wall in a cozy child's room, the dreaming
Peaceful pictures of birds and sheep.
Children - is evening, evening on the couch,
In the fog, through the window, glimmer street lamps,
A measured voice of the tale of King Saltan,
Mermaid-sisters of seas from tales.
Children - is rest, brief moment of respite,
A trembling vow before God's eyes,
Children - are the world's tender riddles,
Where in the riddle the answer hides!
The eyes open to a cry of pulleys,
And spirited from sleep, the astounded
soul
Hangs for a moment bodiless and
simple
As false dawn.
Outside the open window
The morning air is all awash with
angels.
Some are in bed-sheets, some are
in blouses,
Some are in smocks: but truly there
they are.
Now they are rising together in calm
swells
Of halcyon feeling, filling whatever they
wear
With the deep joy of their impersonal
breathing;
Now they are flying in place,
conveying
The terrible speed of their
omnipresence, moving
And staying like white water; and now
of a sudden
They swoon down in so rapt a quiet
That nobody seems to be there.
The soul shrinks
From all that it is about to remember,
From the punctual rape of every
blessed day,
And cries,
"Oh, let there be nothing on
earth but laundry,
Nothing but rosy hands in the rising
steam
And clear dances done in the sight of
heaven."
Yet, as the sun acknowledges
With a warm look the world's hunks
and colors,
The soul descends once more in bitter
love
To accept the waking body, saying now
In a changed voice as the man yawns
and rises,
"Bring them down from their ruddy
gallows;
Let there be clean linen for the backs
of thieves;
Let lovers go fresh and sweet to be
undone,
And the heaviest nuns walk in a pure
floating
Of dark habits,
keeping their difficult
balance."
Submitted by Robert Fish
I.
Cold as the breath of winds that blow
To silver shot descending snow,
Lucasta sigh't; when she did close
The world in frosty chaines!
And then a frowne to rubies frose
The blood boyl'd in our veines:
Yet cooled not the heat her sphere
Of beauties first had kindled there.
II.
Then mov'd, and with a suddaine flame
Impatient to melt all againe,
Straight from her eyes she lightning hurl'd,
And earth in ashes mournes;
The sun his blaze denies the world,
And in her luster burnes:
Yet warmed not the hearts, her nice
Disdaine had first congeal'd to ice.
III.
And now her teares nor griev'd desire
Can quench this raging, pleasing fire;
Fate but one way allowes; behold
Her smiles' divinity!
They fann'd this heat, and thaw'd that cold,
So fram'd up a new sky.
Thus earth, from flames and ice repreev'd,
E're since hath in her sun-shine liv'd.
I sit here alone,
in this dark place.
My mind has gone crazy,
my heart's in a race.
I sit here alone,
with my thoughts gone mad.
I feel I'm insane,
my life's turned bad.
I sit here alone,
as people pass by.
I scream to be heard,
but can't and cry.
I sit here alone,
I'm all messed up.
I have no control,
It's time to give up.
I sit here alone,
I can't hold on.
I'm losing my grasp,
My sanity's gone.
I sit here alone,
My freedom is here,
The struggle is over,
I won't shed a tear.
I sit here alone,
I shall never see light.
I have only darkness,
In my own world tonight.
In my dream, all the oceans are chocolate
that I sail in my gummy bear boat.
The mountain, there, is a chocolate cake
with waterfalls to root beer floats.
Bubble gum berries grow wild here and there.
Tall pretzels are telephone poles.
Potato chips fall like crisp autumn leaves
that I gather in sugar cone bowls.
In my garden, the trees all grow jelly beans
with every color they make, except black.
The leaves on the flowers are little green spoons
'cause the flowers bloom jello cup snacks.
When it rains, the puddles are lemonade
and I swallow sweet drops from the sky.
In the winter, it always snows popcorn
so I make popcorn men seven feet high.
Chocolate chip cookies are stepping stones
under soft cotton candy pink clouds.
The sidewalks are made of red licorice sticks.
It all tastes just as good as it sounds.
If my world could be like my dream,
what an exciting place it would make -
to have all of my favorites everywhere,
but never a bad tummy ache.
I
Half of the fellow father as he doubles
His sea-sucked Adam in the hollow hulk,
Half of the fellow mother as she dabbles
To-morrow's diver in her horny milk,
Bisected shadows on the thunder's bone
Bolt for the salt unborn.
The fellow half was frozen as it bubbled
Corrosive spring out of the iceberg's crop,
The fellow seed and shadow as it babbled
The swing of milk was tufted in the pap,
For half of love was planted in the lost,
And the unplanted ghost.
The broken halves are fellowed in a cripple,
The crutch that marrow taps upon their sleep,
Limp in the street of sea, among the rabble
Of tide-tongued heads and bladders in the deep,
And stake the sleepers in the savage grave
That the vampire laugh.
The patchwork halves were cloven as they scudded
The wild pigs' wood, and slime upon the trees,
Sucking the dark, kissed on the cyanide,
And loosed the braiding adders from their hairs,
Rotating halves are horning as they drill
The arterial angel.
What colour is glory? death's feather? tremble
The halves that pierce the pin's point in the air,
And prick the thumb-stained heaven through the thimble.
The ghost is dumb that stammered in the straw,
The ghost that hatched his havoc as he flew
Blinds their cloud-tracking eye.
II
My world is pyramid. The padded mummer
Weeps on the desert ochre and the salt
Incising summer.
My Egypt's armour buckling in its sheet,
I scrape through resin to a starry bone
And a blood parhelion.
My world is cypress, and an English valley.
I piece my flesh that rattled on the yards
Red in an Austrian volley.
I hear, through dead men's drums, the riddled lads,
Screwing their bowels from a hill of bones,
Cry Eloi to the guns.
My grave is watered by the crossing Jordan.
The Arctic scut, and basin of the South,
Drip on my dead house garden.
Who seek me landward, marking in my mouth
The straws of Asia, lose me as I turn
Through the Atlantic corn.
The fellow halves that, cloven as they swivel
On casting tides, are tangled in the shells,
Bearding the unborn devil,
Bleed from my burning fork and smell my heels.
The tongue's of heaven gossip as I glide
Binding my angel's hood.
Who blows death's feather? What glory is colour?
I blow the stammel feather in the vein.
The loin is glory in a working pallor.
My clay unsuckled and my salt unborn,
The secret child, I sift about the sea
Dry in the half-tracked thigh.
News of the Gold World of May in Holland Michigan:
"Wooden shoes will clatter again
on freshly scrubbed streets--"
The tulip will arise and reign again from awnings and
windows
of all colors and forms
its vine, verve and valentine curves
upon the city streets, the public grounds
and private lawns
(wherever it is conceivable
that a bulb might take root
and the two lips, softly curved, come up
possessed by the skilled love and will of a ballerina.)
The citizens will dance in folk dances.
They will thump, they will pump,
thudding and shoving
elbow and thigh,
bumping and laughing, like barrels and bells.
Vast fields of tulips in full bloom,
the reproduction of a miniature Dutch village,
part of a gigantic flower show.
Oh, could we do with this world of ours
As thou dost with thy garden bowers,
Reject the weeds and keep the flowers,
What a heaven on earth we'd make it!
So bright a dwelling should be our own,
So warranted free from sigh or frown,
That angels soon would be coming down,
By the week or month to take it.
Like those gay flies that wing through air,
And in themselves a lustre bear,
A stock of light, still ready there,
Whenver they wish to use it;
So in this world I'd make for thee,
Our hearts should all like fire-flies be,
And the flash of wit or poesy
Break forth whenever we choose it.
While every joy that glads our sphere
Hath still some shadow hovering near,
In this new world of ours, my dear,
Such shadows will all be omitted; --
Unless they're like that graceful one,
Which when thou'rt dancing in the sun,
Still near thee, leaves a charm upon
Each spot where it hath flitted!
It's my opinion - though I own
In thinking so I'm quite alone -
In some respects I'm but a fright.
YOU like my features, I suppose?
I'M disappointed with my nose:
Some rave about it - perhaps they're right.
My figure just sets off a fit;
But when they say it's exquisite
(And they DO say so), that's too strong.
I hope I'm not what people call
Opinionated!  After all,
I'm but a goose, and may be wrong!
When charms enthral
There's some excuse
For measures strong;
And after all
I'm but a goose,
And may be wrong!
My teeth are very neat, no doubt;
But after all they MAY fall out:
I think they will - some think they won't.
My hands are small, as you may see,
But not as small as they might be,
At least, I think so - others don't.
But there, a girl may preach and prate
From morning six to evening eight,
And never stop to dine,
When all the world, although misled,
Is quite agreed on any head -
And it is quite agreed on mine!
All said and done,
It's little I
Against a throng.
I'm only one,
And possibly
I may be wrong!
"The worlds in which we live are two
The world 'I am' and the world 'I do.'"
The worlds in which we live at heart are one,
The world "I am," the fruit of "I have done";
And underneath these worlds of flower and fruit,
The world "I love,"--the only living root.
Is that the only way we can become like Indians, like Rhinoceri,
like Quartz Crystals, like organic farmers, like what we imagine
Adam & Eve to’ve been, caressing each other with trembling limbs
before the Snake of Revolutionary Sex wrapped itself round
The Tree of Knowledge? What would Roque Dalton joke about lately
teeth chattering like a machine gun as he dabated mass tactics
with his Companeros? Necessary to kill the Yanquis with big bomb
Yes but don’t do it by yourself, better consult your mother
to get the Correct Line of Thought, if not consult Rimbaud once he got his leg cut off
or Lenin after his second stroke sending a message thru Mrs Krupskaya
to the rude Georgian, & just before his deathly fit when the Cheka aides
outside
his door looked in coldly assuring him his affairs were in good hands no need to move - What sickness at the
pit of his stomach moved up to
his brain?
What thought Khlebnikov on the hungry train exposing his stomach to the
sun?
Or Mayakovsky before the bullet hit his brain, what sharp propaganda for
action
on the Bureaucratic Battlefield in the Ministry of Collective Agriculture in
Ukraine?
What Slogan for Futurist architects or epic hymn for masses of Communist
Party Card holders in Futurity
on the conduct of the world seeking beauty against Government?
The world's an Inn; and I her guest.
I eat; I drink; I take my rest.
My hostess, nature, does deny me
Nothing, wherewith she can supply me;
Where, having stayed a while, I pay
Her lavish bills, and go my way.
Once, when midnight smote the air,
Eunuchs ran through Hell and met
On every crowded street to stare
Upon great Juan riding by:
Even like these to rail and sweat
Staring upon his sinewy thigh.
ONCE, when midnight smote the air,
Eunuchs ran through Hell and met
On every crowded street to stare
Upon great Juan riding by:
Even like these to rail and sweat
Staring upon his sinewy thigh.
Passing away, saith the World, passing away:
Chances, beauty and youth, sapp'd day by day:
Thy life never continueth in one stay.
Is the eye waxen dim, is the dark hair changing to grey
That hath won neither laurel nor bay?
I shall clothe myself in Spring and bud in May:
Thou, root-stricken, shalt not rebuild thy decay
On my bosom for aye.
Then I answer'd: Yea.
Passing away, saith my Soul, passing away:
With its burden of fear and hope, of labour and play,
Hearken what the past doth witness and say:
Rust in thy gold, a moth is in thine array,
A canker is in thy bud, thy leaf must decay.
At midnight, at cockcrow, at morning, one certain day
Lo, the Bridegroom shall come and shall not delay:
Watch thou and pray.
Then I answer'd: Yea.
Passing away, saith my God, passing away:
Winter passeth after the long delay:
New grapes on the vine, new figs on the tender spray,
Turtle calleth turtle in Heaven's May.
Though I tarry, wait for Me, trust Me, watch and pray.
Arise, come away, night is past and lo it is day,
My love, My sister, My spouse, thou shalt hear Me say.
Then I answer'd: Yea.
Since I don't know who will be reading
this or even if it will be read, I must
invent someone on the other end
of eternity, a distant cousin laboring
under the same faint stars I labored
all those unnumbered years ago. I make you
like me in everything I can -- a man
or woman in middle years who having
lost whatever faiths he held goes on
with only the faith that even more
will be lost. Like me a wanderer,
someone with a taste for coastal towns
sparkling in the cold winter sun, boardwalks
without walkers, perfect beaches shrouded
in the dense fogs of December, morning cafes
before the second customer arrives,
the cats have been fed, and the proprietor
stops muttering into the cold dishwater.
I give you the gift of language, my gift
and no more, so that wherever you go
words fall around you meaning no more
than the full force of their making, and you
translate the clicking of teeth against
teeth and tongue as morning light spilling
into the enclosed squares of a white town,
breath drawn in and held as the ocean
when no one sees it, the waves still,
the fishing boats drift in a calm beyond sleep.
The gift of sleep, too, and the waking
from it day after day without knowing
why the small sunlit room with its single bed,
white counterpane going yellow, and bare floor
holds itself with such assurance
while the flaming nebulae of dust
swirl around you. And the sense not to ask.
Like me you rise immediately and sit
on the bed's edge and let whatever dream
of a childhood home or a rightful place
you had withdraw into the long shadows
of the tilted wardrobe and the one chair.
Before you've even washed your face you
see it on the bedoilied chiffonier -- there,
balanced precariously on the orange you bought
at yesterday's market and saved for now.
Someone entered soundlessly while you slept
and left you sleeping and left this postcard
from me and thought to close the door
with no more fuss than the moon makes.
There's your name in black ink in a hand
as familiar as your own and not
your own, and the address even you
didn't know you'd have an hour before
you got it. When you turn it over,
there it is, not the photo of a star,
or the bright sailboats your sister would
have chosen or the green urban meadows
my brother painted. What is it? It could be
another planet just after its birth
except that at the center the colors
are earth colors. It could be the cloud
that formed above the rivers of our blood,
the one that brought rain to a dry time
or took wine from a hungry one. It could
be my way of telling you that I too
burned and froze by turns and the face I
came to was more dirt than flame, it
could be the face I put on everything,
or it could be my way of saying
nothing and saying it perfectly.
Purity
Is obscurity.
X
Should the wide world roll away
Leaving black terror
Limitless night,
Nor God, nor man, nor place to stand
Would be to me essential
If thou and thy white arms were there
And the fall to doom a long way.
We live our lives of human passions,
cruelties, dreams, concepts,
crimes and the exercise of virtue
in and beside a world devoid
of our preoccupations, free
from apprehension--though affected,
certainly, by our actions. A world
parallel to our own though overlapping.
We call it "Nature"; only reluctantly
admitting ourselves to be "Nature" too.
Whenever we lose track of our own obsessions,
our self-concerns, because we drift for a minute,
an hour even, of pure (almost pure)
response to that insouciant life:
cloud, bird, fox, the flow of light, the dancing
pilgrimage of water, vast stillness
of spellbound ephemerae on a lit windowpane,
animal voices, mineral hum, wind
conversing with rain, ocean with rock, stuttering
of fire to coal--then something tethered
in us, hobbled like a donkey on its patch
of gnawed grass and thistles, breaks free.
No one discovers
just where we've been, when we're caught up again
into our own sphere (where we must
return, indeed, to evolve our destinies)
--but we have changed, a little.
VII
The face of all the world is changed, I think,
Since first I heard the footsteps of thy soul
Move still, oh, still, beside me, as they stole
Betwixt me and the dreadful outer brink
Of obvious death, where I, who thought to sink,
Was caught up into love, and taught the whole
Of life in a new rhythm. The cup of dole
God gave for baptism, I am fain to drink,
And praise its sweetness, Sweet, with thee anear.
The names of country, heaven, are changed away
For where thou art or shalt be, there or here;
And this . . . this lute and song . . . loved yesterday,
(The singing angels know) are only dear
Because thy name moves right in what they say.
O, lest the world should task you to recite
What merit lived in me that you should love
After my death, dear love, forget me quite;
For you in me can nothing worthy prove—
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie
To do more for me than mine own desert,
And hang more praise upon deceasèd I
Than niggard truth would willingly impart.
O, lest your true love may seem false in this,
That you for love speak well of me untrue,
My name be buried where my body is,
And live no more to shame nor me nor you.
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
And so should you, to love things nothing worth.
The face of all the world is changed, I think,
Since first I heard the footsteps of thy soul
Move still, oh, still, beside me, as they stole
Betwixt me and the dreadful outer brink
Of obvious death, where I, who thought to sink,
Was caught up into love, and taught the whole
Of life in a new rhythm. The cup of dole
God gave for baptism, I am fain to drink,
And praise its sweetness, Sweet, with thee anear.
The names of country, heaven, are changed away
For where thou art or shalt be, there or here;
And this . . . this lute and song . . . loved yesterday,
(The singing angels know) are only dear
Because thy name moves right in what they say.
There was a man in our town, and he
was wondrous rich;
He gave away his millions to the colleges
and sich;
And people cried: "The hypocrite! He ought
to understand
The ones who really need him are the children
of this land."
When Andrew Croesus built a home for children
who were sick,
The people said they rather thought he did it
as a trick,
And writers said: "He thinks about the drooping
girls and boys,
But what about conditions with the men whom
he employs?"
There was a man in our town who said that he
would share
His profits with his laborers, for that was
only fair,
And people said: "Oh, isn't he the shrewd and
foxy gent?
It cost him next to nothing for that free
advertisement."
There was a man in our town who had the perfect
plan
To do away with poverty and other ills of man,
But he feared the public jeering, and the folks
who would defame him,
So he never told the plan he had, and I can hardly
blame him.
There's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away
When the glow of early thought declines in feeling's dull decay;
'Tis not on youth's smooth cheek the blush alone, which fades so fast,
But the tender bloom of heart is gone, ere youth itself be past.
Then the few whose spirits float above the wreck of happiness
Are driven o'er the shoals of guilt, or ocean of excess:
The magnet of their course is gone, or only points in vain
The shore to which their shivered sail shall never stretch again.
Then the mortal coldness of the soul like death itself comes down;
It cannot feel for others' woes, it dare not dream its own;
That heavy chill has frozen o'er the fountain of our tears,
And though the eye may sparkle still, 'tis where the ice appears.
Though wit may flash from fluent lips, and mirth distract the breast,
Through midnight hours that yield no more their former hope of rest,
'Tis but as ivy-leaves around the ruined turret wreath—
All green and wildly fresh without, but worn and grey beneath.
Oh, could I feel as I have felt, or be what I have been,
Or weep as I could once have wept, o'er many a vanished scene;
As springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be,
So, midst the withered waste of life, those tears would flow to me.
The salmon lying in the depths of Llyn Llifon
Secretly as a thought in a dark mind,
Is not so old as the owl of Cwm Cowlyd
Who tells her sorrow nightly on the wind.
The ousel singing in the woods of Cilgwri,
Tirelessly as a stream over the mossed stones,
Is not so old as the toad of Cors Fochno
Who feels the cold skin sagging round his bones.
The toad and the ousel and the stag of Rhedynfre,
That has cropped each leaf from the tree of life,
Are not so old as the owl of Cwm Cowlyd,
That the proud eagle would have to wife.
Today the Masons are auctioning
their discarded pomp: a trunk of turbans,
gemmed and ostrich-plumed, and operetta costumes
labeled inside the collar "Potentate"
and "Vizier." Here their chairs, blazoned
with the Masons' sign, huddled
like convalescents, lean against one another
on the grass. In a casket are rhinestoned poles
the hierophants carried in parades;
here's a splendid golden staff some ranking officer waved,
topped with a golden pyramid and a tiny,
inquisitive sphinx. No one's worn this stuff
for years, and it doesn't seem worth buying;
where would we put it? Still,
I want that staff. I used to love
to go to the library -- the smalltown brick refuge
of those with nothing to do, really,
'Carnegie' chiseled on the pediment
above columns that dwarfed an inconsequential street.
Embarrassed to carry the same book past
the water fountain's plaster centaurs
up to the desk again, I'd take
The Wonders of the World
to the Reading Room
where Art and Industry met in the mural
on the dome. The room smelled like two decades
before I was born, when the name
carved over the door meant something.
I never read the second section,
"Wonders of the Modern World";
I loved the promise of my father's blueprints,
the unfulfilled turquoise schemes,
but in the real structures
you could hardly imagine a future.
I wanted the density of history,
which I confused with the smell of the book:
Babylon's ziggurat tropical with ferns,
engraved watercourses rippling;
the Colossus of Rhodes balanced
over the harbormouth on his immense ankles.
Athena filled one end of the Parthenon,
in an "artist's reconstruction",
like an adult in a dollhouse.
At Halicarnassus, Mausolus remembered himself
immensely, though in the book
there wasn't even a sketch,
only a picture of huge fragments.
In the pyramid's deep clockworks,
did the narrow tunnels mount toward
the eye of God? That was the year
photos were beamed back from space;
falling asleep I used to repeat a new word
to myself,
telemetry
, liking the way
it seemed to allude to something storied.
The earth was whorled marble,
at that distance. Even the stuck-on porticoes
and collonades downtown were narrative,
somehow, but the buildings my father engineered
were without stories. All I wanted
was something larger than our ordinary sadness --
greater not in scale but in context,
memorable, true to a proportioned,
subtle form. Last year I knew a student,
a half mad boy who finally opened his arms
with a razor, not because he wanted to die
but because he wanted to design something grand
on his own body. Once he said,
When a child
realizes his parents aren't enough,
he turns to architecture
.
I think I know what he meant.
Imagine the Masons parading,
one of them, in his splendid get-up,
striding forward with the golden staff,
above his head Cheops' beautiful shape --
a form we cannot separate
from the stories about the form,
even if we hardly know them,
even if it no longer signifies, if it only shines.
Once, when midnight smote the air,
Eunuchs ran through Hell and met
From thoroughfare to thoroughfare,
While that great Juan galloped by;
And like these to rail and sweat
Staring upon his sinewy thigh.
What's the best thing in the world?
June-rose, by May-dew impearled;
Sweet south-wind, that means no rain;
Truth, not cruel to a friend;
Pleasure, not in haste to end;
Beauty, not self-decked and curled
Till its pride is over-plain;
Love, when, so, you're loved again.
What's the best thing in the world?
--Something out of it, I think.
THE WORLD did say to me,
‘My bread thou shalt not eat,
I have no place for thee
In house nor field nor street.
‘I have on land nor sea
For thee nor home nor bread,
I scarce can give to thee
A grave when thou art dead.’
‘O crazy World,’ said I,
‘What is it thou canst give,
Which wanting, I must die,
Or having, I shall live?
‘When thou thy all hast spent,
And all thy harvests cease,
I still have nutriment
That groweth by decrease.
‘Thy streets will pass away,
Thy towers of steel be rust,
Thy heights to plains decay,
Thyself be wandering dust;
‘But I go ever on
From prime to endless prime,
I sit on Being’s throne,
A lord o’er space and time.
‘Then, crazy World,’ said I,
‘What is it thou canst give,
Which wanting, I must die,
Or having, I shall live?’
Quite unexpectedly, as Vasserot
The armless ambidextrian was lighting
A match between his great and second toe,
And Ralph the lion was engaged in biting
The neck of Madame Sossman while the drum
Pointed, and Teeny was about to cough
In waltz-time swinging Jocko by the thumb
Quite unexpectedly to top blew off:
And there, there overhead, there, there hung over
Those thousands of white faces, those dazed eyes,
There in the starless dark, the poise, the hover,
There with vast wings across the cancelled skies,
There in the sudden blackness the black pall
Of nothing, nothing, nothing -- nothing at all.
Here, at the end of the world,
the flowers bleed
as if they were hearts,
the hearts ooze a darkness
like india ink,
& poets dip their pens in
& they write.
"Here, at the end of the world,"
they write,
not knowing what it means.
"Here, where the sky nurses on black milk,
where the smokestack feed the sky,
where the trees tremble in terror
& people come to resemble them. . . . "
Here, at the end of the world,
the poets are bleeding.
Writing & bleeding
are thought to be the same;
singing & bleeding
are thought to be the same.
Write us a letter!
Send us a parcel of food!
Comfort us with proverbs or candied fruit,
with talk of one God.
Distract us with theories of art
no one can prove.
Here at the end of the world
our heads are empty,
& the wind walks through them
like ghosts
through a haunted house.
The goblet is sparkling with purpled-tinged wine,
Bright glistens the eye of each guest,
When into the hall comes the Minstrel divine,
To the good he now brings what is best;
For when from Elysium is absent the lyre,
No joy can the banquet of nectar inspire.
He is blessed by the gods, with an intellect clear,
That mirrors the world as it glides;
He has seen all that ever has taken place here,
And all that the future still hides.
He sat in the god's secret councils of old
And heard the command for each thing to unfold.
He opens in splendor, with gladness and mirth,
That life which was hid from our eyes;
Adorns as a temple the dwelling of earth,
That the Muse has bestowed as his prize,
No roof is so humble, no hut is so low,
But he with divinities bids it o'erflow.
And as the inventive descendant of Zeus,
On the unadorned round of the shield,
With knowledge divine could, reflected, produce
Earth, sea, and the star's shining field,--
So he, on the moments, as onward they roll,
The image can stamp of the infinite whole.
From the earliest age of the world he has come,
When nations rejoiced in their prime;
A wanderer glad, he has still found a home
With every race through all time.
Four ages of man in his lifetime have died,
And the place they once held by the fifth is supplied.
Saturnus first governed, with fatherly smile,
Each day then resembled the last;
Then flourished the shepherds, a race without guile
Their bliss by no care was o'ercast,
They loved,--and no other employment they had,
And earth gave her treasures with willingness glad.
Then labor came next, and the conflict began
With monsters and beasts famed in song;
And heroes upstarted, as rulers of man,
And the weak sought the aid of the strong.
And strife o'er the field of Scamander now reigned,
But beauty the god of the world still remained.
At length from the conflict bright victory sprang,
And gentleness blossomed from might;
In heavenly chorus the Muses then sang,
And figures divine saw the light;--
The age that acknowledged sweet phantasy's sway
Can never return, it has fleeted away.
The gods from their seats in the heavens were hurled,
And their pillars of glory o'erthrown;
And the Son of the Virgin appeared in the world
For the sins of mankind to atone.
The fugitive lusts of the sense were suppressed,
And man now first grappled with thought in his breast.
Each vain and voluptuous charm vanished now,
Wherein the young world took delight;
The monk and the nun made of penance a vow,
And the tourney was sought by the knight.
Though the aspect of life was now dreary and wild,
Yet love remained ever both lovely and mild.
An altar of holiness, free from all stain,
The Muses in silence upreared;
And all that was noble and worthy, again
In woman's chaste bosom appeared;
The bright flame of song was soon kindled anew
By the minstrel's soft lays, and his love pure and true.
And so, in a gentle and ne'er-changing band,
Let woman and minstrel unite;
They weave and they fashion, with hand joined to hand,
The girdle of beauty and right.
When love blends with music, in unison sweet,
The lustre of life's youthful days ne'er can fleet.
Through the world which the Spirit creative and kind
First formed out of chaos, I fly like the wind,
Until on the strand
Of its billows I land,
My anchor cast forth where the breeze blows no more,
And Creation's last boundary stands on the shore.
I saw infant stars into being arise,
For thousands of years to roll on through the skies;
I saw them in play
Seek their goal far away,--
For a moment my fugitive gaze wandered on,--
I looked round me, and lo!--all those bright stars had flown!
Madly yearning to reach the dark kingdom of night.
I boldly steer on with the speed of the light;
All misty and drear
The dim heavens appear,
While embryo systems and seas at their source
Are whirling around the sun-wanderer's course.
When sudden a pilgrim I see drawing near
Along the lone path,--"Stay!  What seekest thou here?"
"My bark, tempest-tossed,
I sail toward the land where the breeze blows no more,
And Creation's last boundary stands on the shore."
"Stay, thou sailest in vain!  'Tis INFINITY yonder!"--
"'Tis INFINITY, too, where thou, pilgrim, wouldst wander!
Eagle-thoughts that aspire,
Let your proud pinions tire!
For 'tis here that sweet phantasy, bold to the last,
Her anchor in hopeless dejection must cast!"
A week ago; only a little week:
it seems so much much longer, though that day
is every morning still my yesterday;
as all my life 'twill be my yesterday,
for all my life is morrow to my love.
Oh fortunate morrow! Oh sweet happy love!
A week ago; and I am almost glad
to have him now gone for this little while,
that I may think of him and tell myself
what to be his means, now that I am his,
and know if mine is love enough for him,
and make myself believe it all is true.
A week ago; and it seems like a life,
and I have not yet learned to know myself:
I am so other than I was, so strange,
grown younger and grown older all in one;
and I am not so sad and not so gay;
and I think nothing, only hear him think.
That morning, waking, I remembered him
"Will he be here to-day? he often comes; --
and is it for my sake or to kill time?"
and, wondering "Will he come?" I chose the dress
he seemed to like the best, and hoped for him;
and did not think I could quite love him yet.
And did I love him then with all my heart?
or did I wait until he held my hands
and spoke "Say, shall it be?" and kissed my brow,
and I looked at him and he knew it all?
And did I love him from the day we met?
but I more gladly danced with some one else
who waltzed more smoothly and was merrier:
and did I love him when he first came here?
but I more gladly talked with some one else
whose words were readier and who sought me more.
When did I love him? How did it begin?
The small green spikes of snowdrops in the spring
are there one morning ere you think of them;
still we may tell what morning they pierced up:
June rosebuds stir and open stealthily,
and every new blown rose is a surprise;
still we can date the day when one unclosed:
but how can I tell when my love began?
Oh, was it like the young pale twilight star
that quietly breaks on the vacant sky,
is sudden there and perfect while you watch,
and, though you watch, you have not seen it dawn,
the star that only waited and awoke?
But he knows when he loved me; for he says
the first time we had met he told a friend
"The sweetest dewy daisy of a girl,
but not the solid stuff to make a wife;"
and afterwards the first time he was here,
when I had slipped away into our field
to watch alone for sunset brightening on
and heard them calling me, he says he stood
and saw me come along the coppice walk
beneath the green and sparkling arch of boughs,
and, while he watched the yellow lights that played
with the dim flickering shadows of the leaves
over my yellow hair and soft pale dress,
flitting across me as I flitted through,
he whispered inly, in so many words,
"I see my wife; this is my wife who comes,
and seems to bear the sunlight on with her:"
and that was when he loved me, so he says.
Yet is he quite sure? was it only then?
and had he had no thought which I could feel?
for why was it I knew that he would watch,
and all the while thought in my silly heart,
as I advanced demurely, it was well
I had on the pale dress with sweeping folds
which took the light and shadow tenderly,
and that the sunlights touched my hair and cheek,
because he'd note it all and care for it?
Oh vain and idle poor girl's heart of mine,
content with that coquettish mean content!
He, with his man's straight purpose, thinking "wife,"
and I but that 'twas pleasant to be fair
and that 'twas pleasant he should count me fair.
But oh, to think he should be loving me
and I be no more moved out of myself!
The sunbeams told him, but they told me nought,
except that maybe I was looking well.
And oh had I but known! Why did no bird,
trilling its own sweet lovesong, as I passed,
so musically marvellously glad,
sing one for me too, sing me "It is he,"
sing "Love him," and "You love him: it is he,"
that I might then have loved him when he loved,
that one dear moment might be date to both?
And must I not be glad he hid his thought
and did not tell me then, when it was soon
and I should have been startled, and not known
how he is just the one man I can love,
and, only with some pain lest he were pained,
and nothing doubting, should have answered "No."
How strange life is! I should have answered "No."
Oh, can I ever be half glad enough
he is so wise and patient and could wait!
He waited as you wait the reddening fruit
which helplessly is ripening on the tree,
and not because it tries or longs or wills,
only because the sun will shine on it:
but he who waited was himself that sun.
Oh was it worth the waiting? was it worth?
For I am half afraid love is not love,
this love which only makes me rest in him
and be so happy and so confident,
this love which makes me pray for longest days
that I may have them all to use for him,
this love which almost makes me yearn for pain
that I might have borne something for his sake,
this love which I call love, is less than love.
Where are the fires and fevers and the pangs?
where is the anguish of too much delight,
and the delirious madness at a kiss,
the flushing and the paling at a look,
and passionate ecstasy of meeting hands?
where is the eager weariness at time
that will not bate a single measured hour
to speed to us the far-off wedding day?
I am so calm and wondering, like a child
who, led by a firm hand it knows and trusts
along a stranger country beautiful
with a bewildering beauty to new eyes
if they be wise to know what they behold,
finds newness everywhere but no surprise,
and takes the beauty as an outward part
of being led so kindly by the hand.
I am so cold: is mine but a child's heart,
and not a woman's fit for such a man?
Alas am I too cold, am I too dull,
can I not love him as another could?
And oh, if love be fire, what love is mine
that is but like the pale subservient moon
who only asks to be earth's minister?
And, oh, if love be whirlwind, what is mine
that is but like a little even brook
which has no aim but flowing to the sea,
and sings for happiness because it flows?
Ah well, I would that I could love him more
and not be only happy as I am;
I would that I could love him to his worth,
with that forgetting all myself in him,
that subtle pain of exquisite excess,
that momentary infinite sharp joy,
I know by books but cannot teach my heart:
and yet I think my love must needs be love,
since he can read me through -- oh happy strange,
my thoughts that were my secrets all for me
grown instantly his open easy book! --
since he can read me through, and is content.
And yesterday, when they all went away,
save little Amy with her daisy chains,
and left us in that shadow of tall ferns,
and the child, leaning on me, fell asleep,
and I, tired by the afternoon long walk,
said "I could almost gladly sleep like her,"
did he not answer, drawing down my head,
"Sleep, darling, let me see you rest on me,"
and when the child, awaking, wakened me,
did he not say "Dear, you have made me glad,
for, seeing you so sleeping peacefully,
I feel that you do love me utterly,
no questionings, no regrettings, but at rest."
Oh yes, my good true darling, you spoke well
"No questionings, no regrettings, but at rest:"
what should I question, what should I regret,
now I have you who are my hope and rest?
I am the feathery wind-wafted seed
that flickered idly half a merry morn,
now thralled into the rich life-giving earth
to root and bud and waken into leaf
and make it such poor sweetness as I may;
the prisoned seed that never more shall float
the frolic playfellow of summer winds
and mimic the free changeful butterfly;
the prisoned seed that prisoned finds its life
and feels its pulses stir, and grows, and grows.
Oh love, who gathered me into yourself,
oh love, I am at rest in you, and live.
And shall I for so many coming days
be flower and sweetness to him? Oh pale flower,
grow, grow, and blossom out, and fill the air,
feed on his richness, grow, grow, blossom out,
and fill the air, and be enough for him.
Oh crystal music of the air-borne lark,
so falling, nearer, nearer, from the sky,
are you a message to me of dear hopes?
oh trilling gladness, flying down to earth,
have you brought answer of sweet prophecy?
have you brought answer to the thoughts in me?
Oh happy answer, and oh happy thoughts!
and which is the bird's carol, which my heart's?
My love, my love, my love! And I shall be
so much to him, so almost everything:
and I shall be the friend whom he will trust,
and I shall be the child whom he will teach,
and I shall be the servant he will praise,
and I shall be the mistress he will love,
and I shall be his wife. Oh days to come,
will ye not pass like gentle rhythmic steps
that fall to sweetest music noiselessly?
But I have known the lark's song half sound sad,
and I have seen the lake, which rippled sun,
toss dimmed and purple in a sudden wind;
and let me laugh a moment at my heart
that thinks the summer-time must all be fair,
that thinks the good days always must be good:
yes let me laugh a moment -- may be weep.
But no, but no, not laugh; for through my joy
I have been wise enough to know the while
some tears and some long hours are in all lives,
in every promised land some thorn plants grow,
some tangling weeds as well as laden vines:
and no, not weep; for is not my land fair,
my land of promise flushed with fruit and bloom?
and who would weep for fear of scattered thorns?
and very thorns bear oftentimes sweet fruits.
Oh the black storm that breaks across the lake
ruffles the surface, leaves the deeps at rest --
deep in our hearts there always will be rest:
oh summer storms fall sudden as they rose,
the peaceful lake forgets them while they die --
our hearts will always have it summer time.
All rest, all summer time. My love, my love,
I know it will be so; you are so good,
and I, near you, shall grow at last like you;
and you are tender, patient -- oh I know
you will bear with me, help me, smile to me,
and let me make you happy easily;
and I, what happiness could I have more
than that dear labour of a happy wife?
I would not have another. Is it wrong,
and is it selfish that I cannot wish,
that I, who yet so love the clasping hand
and innocent fond eyes of little ones,
I cannot wish that which I sometimes read
is women's dearest wish hid in their love,
to press a baby creature to my breast?
Oh is it wrong? I would be all for him,
not even children coming 'twixt us two
to call me from his service to serve them;
and maybe they would steal too much of love,
for, since I cannot love him now enough,
what would my heart be halved? or would it grow?
But he perhaps would love me something less,
finding me not so always at his side.
Together always, that was what he said;
together always. Oh dear coming days!
O dear dear present days that pass too fast,
although they bring such rainbow morrows on!
that pass so fast, and yet, I know not why,
seem always to encompass so much time.
And I should fear I were too happy now,
and making this poor world too much my Heaven,
but that I feel God nearer and it seems
as if I had learned His love better too.
So late already! The sun dropping down,
and under him the first long line of red --
my truant should be here again by now,
is come maybe. I will not seek him, I;
he would be vain and think I cared too much;
I will wait here, and he shall seek for me,
and I will carelessly -- Oh his dear step --
he sees me, he is coming; my own love!
The house was quiet and the world was calm.
The reader became the book; and summer night
Was like the conscious being of the book.
The house was quiet and the world was calm.
The words were spoken as if there was no book,
Except that the reader leaned above the page,
Wanted to lean, wanted much to be
The scholar to whom his book is true, to whom
The summer night is like a perfection of thought.
The house was quiet because it had to be.
The quiet was part of the meaning, part of the mind:
The access of perfection to the page.
And the world was calm. The truth in a calm world,
In which there is no other meaning, itself
Is calm, itself is summer and night, itself
Is the reader leaning late and reading there.
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans
Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground,
The emptiness of ages in his face,
And on his back the burden of the world.
Who made him dead to rapture and despair,
A thing that grieves not and that never hopes,
Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox?
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw?
Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow?
Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the Thing the Lord God made and gave
To have dominion over sea and land;
To trace the stars and search the heavens for power;
To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the Dream He dreamed who shaped the suns
And marked their ways upon the ancient deep?
Down all the stretch of Hell to its last gulf
There is no shape more terrible than this --
More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed --
More filled with signs and portents for the soul --
More fraught with menace to the universe.
What gulfs between him and the seraphim!
Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him
Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?
What the long reaches of the peaks of song,
The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look;
Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop;
Through this dread shape humanity betrayed,
Plundered, profaned and disinherited,
Cries protest to the Judges of the World,
A protest that is also prophecy.
O masters, lords and rulers in all lands,
Is this the handiwork you give to God,
This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched?
How will you ever straighten up this shape;
Touch it again with immortality;
Give back the upward looking and the light;
Rebuild in it the music and the dream;
Make right the immemorial infamies,
Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes?
O masters, lords and rulers in all lands,
How will the Future reckon with this Man?
How answer his brute question in that hour
When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world?
How will it be with kingdoms and with kings --
With those who shaped him to the thing he is --
When this dumb Terror shall reply to God,
After the silence of the centuries?
A man roams the streets with a basket
of freestone peaches hollering, "Peaches,
peaches, yellow freestone peaches for sale."
My grandfather in his prime could outshout
the Tigers of Wrath or the factory whistles
along the river. Hamtramck hungered
for yellow freestone peaches, downriver
wakened from a dream of work, Zug Island danced
into the bright day glad to be alive.
Full-figured women in their negligees
streamed into the streets from the dark doorways
to demand in Polish or Armenian
the ripened offerings of this new world.
Josef Prisckulnick out of Dubrovitsa
to Detroit by way of Ellis Island
raised himself regally to his full height
of five feet two and transacted until
the fruit was gone into those eager hands.
Thus would there be a letter sent across
an ocean and a continent, and thus
would Sadie waken to the news of wealth
without limit in the bright and distant land,
and thus bags were packed and she set sail
for America. Some of this is true.
The women were gaunt. All day the kids dug
in the back lots searching for anything.
The place was Russia with another name.
Joe was five feet two. Dubrovitsa burned
to gray ashes the west wind carried off,
then Rovno went, then the Dnieper turned to dust.
We sat around the table telling lies
while the late light filled an empty glass.
Bread, onions, the smell of burning butter,
small white potatoes we shared with no one
because the hour was wrong, the guest was late,
and this was Michigan in 1928.
In his cool hall, with haggard eyes,
The Roman noble lay;
He drove abroad, in furious guise,
Along the Appian way.
He made a feast, drank fierce and fast,
And crowned his hair with flowers -
No easier nor no quicker passed
The impracticable hours.
The brooding East with awe beheld
Her impious younger world.
The Roman tempest swelled and swelled,
And on her head was hurled.
The East bowed low before the blast
In patient, deep disdain;
She let the legions thunder past,
And plunged in thought again.
So well she mused, a morning broke
Across her spirit grey;
A conquering, new-born joy awoke,
And filled her life with day.
'Poor world,' she cried, 'so deep accurst
That runn'st from pole to pole
To seek a draught to slake thy thirst -
Go, seek it in thy soul!'
She heard it, the victorious West,
In crown and sword arrayed!
She felt the void which mined her breast,
She shivered and obeyed.
She veiled her eagles, snapped her sword,
And laid her sceptre down;
Her stately purple she abhorred,
And her imperial crown.
She broke her flutes, she stopped her sports,
Her artists could not please;
She tore her books, she shut her courts,
She fled her palaces;
Lust of the eye and pride of life
She left it all behind,
And hurried, torn with inward strife,
The wilderness to find.
Tears washed the trouble from her face!
She changed into a child!
Mid weeds and wrecks she stood -a place
Of ruin -but she smiled!
There may be chaos still around the world,
This little world that in my thinking lies;
For mine own bosom is the paradise
Where all my life's fair visions are unfurled.
Within my nature's shell I slumber curled,
Unmindful of the changing outer skies,
Where now, perchance, some new-born Eros flies,
Or some old Cronos from his throne is hurled.
I heed them not; or if the subtle night
Haunt me with deities I never saw,
I soon mine eyelid's drowsy curtain draw
To hide their myriad faces from my sight.
They threat in vain; the whirlwind cannot awe
A happy snow-flake dancing in the flaw.
Know then thyself, presume not God to scan
The proper study of Mankind is Man.
Placed on this isthmus of a middle state,
A Being darkly wise, and rudely great:
With too much knowledge for the Sceptic side,
With too much weakness for the Stoic's pride,
He hangs between; in doubt to act, or rest;
In doubt to deem himself a God, or Beast;
In doubt his mind and body to prefer;
Born but to die, and reas'ning but to err;
Whether he thinks to little, or too much;
Chaos of Thought and Passion, all confus'd;
Still by himself, abus'd or disabus'd;
Created half to rise and half to fall;
Great Lord of all things, yet a prey to all,
Sole judge of truth, in endless error hurl'd;
The glory, jest and riddle of the world.
WHO dreamed that beauty passes like a dream?
For these red lips, with all their mournful pride,
Mournful that no new wonder may betide,
Troy passed away in one high funeral gleam,
And Usna's children died.
We and the labouring world are passing by:
Amid men's souls, that waver and give place
Like the pale waters in their wintry race,
Under the passing stars, foam of the sky,
Lives on this lonely face.
Bow down, archangels, in your dim abode:
Before you were, or any hearts to beat,
Weary and kind one lingered by His seat;
He made the world to be a grassy road
Before her wandering feet.
This is not exactly what I mean
Any more than the sun is the sun.
But how to mean more closely
If the sun shines but approximately?
What a world of awkwardness!
What hostile implements of sense!
Perhaps this is as close a meaning
As perhaps becomes such knowing.
Else I think the world and I
Must live together as strangers and die—
A sour love, each doubtful whether
Was ever a thing to love the other.
No, better for both to be nearly sure
Each of each—exactly where
Exactly I and exactly the world
Fail to meet by a moment, and a word.
The world is a beautiful place
to be born into
if you don't mind happiness
not always being
so very much fun
if you don't mind a touch of hell
now and then
just when everything is fine
because even in heaven
they don't sing
all the time
The world is a beautiful place
to be born into
if you don't mind some people dying
all the time
or maybe only starving
some of the time
which isn't half bad
if it isn't you
Oh the world is a beautiful place
to be born into
if you don't much mind
a few dead minds
in the higher places
or a bomb or two
now and then
in your upturned faces
or such other improprieties
as our Name Brand society
is prey to
with its men of distinction
and its men of extinction
and its priests
and other patrolmen
and its various segregations
and congressional investigations
and other constipations
that our fool flesh
is heir to
Yes the world is the best place of all
for a lot of such things as
making the fun scene
and making the love scene
and making the sad scene
and singing low songs and having inspirations
and walking around
looking at everything
and smelling flowers
and goosing statues
and even thinking
and kissing people and
making babies and wearing pants
and waving hats and
dancing
and going swimming in rivers
on picnics
in the middle of the summer
and just generally
'living it up'
Yes
but then right in the middle of it
comes the smiling
mortician
I perceive the world as a playground
Where dawn and dusk appear in eternal rounds
In His Universal form is a plaything the throne of Solomon
The miracles of the Messiah seem so ordinary in my eyes
Without name I cannot comprehend any form
Illusionary but is the identity of all objects
My anguish envelopes the entire desert
Silently flows the river in front of my floods
Ask not what separation has done to me
Just see your poise when I come in front of you
Truly you say that I am egotistical and proud
It is the reflection, O friend, in your limited mirror
To appreciate the style and charm of conversation
Just bring in the goblet and wine
Hatred manifests due to my envious mind
Thus I say, don't take his name in front of me
Faith stops me while temptations attract
Inspite of Kaaba behind and church ahead
I am the Lover, yet notorious is my charm
Thus Laila calls names to Majnu in front of me
'Dies' not one though the union is a delight
In premonition of the separation night
Alas, this be it, the bloody separation wave
I know not what else is in store ahead of me
Though the hands don't move, the eyes are alive
Wine and goblet, let them stay in front of me
Says 'Ghalib'
Conscience is companion and trusted friend
Don't pass any judgments in front of me.
The world is full of double beds
And most delightful maidenheads,
Which being so, there’s no excuse
For sodomy of self-abuse.
The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers:
Little we see in Nature that is ours;
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!
This Sea that bares her bosom to the moon;
The winds that will be howling at all hours,
And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers;
For this, for everything, we are out of tune,
It moves us not.--Great God! I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn;
So might I, standing on this pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn;
Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea;
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn.
The world is with me, and its many cares,
Its woes--its wants--the anxious hopes and fears
That wait on all terrestrial affairs--
The shades of former and of future years--
Forboding fancies and prophetic tears,
Quelling a spirit that was once elate.
Heavens! what a wilderness the world appears,
Where youth, and mirth, and health are out of date;
But no--a laugh of innocence and joy
Resounds, like music of the fairy race,
And, gladly turning from the world's annoy,
I gaze upon a little radiant face,
And bless, internally, the merry boy
Who "makes a son-shine in a shady place."
Some are the brothers of all humankind,
And own them, whatsoever their estate;
And some, for sorrow and self-scorn, are blind
With enmity for man's unguarded fate.
For some there is a music all day long
Like flutes in Paradise, they are so glad;
And there is hell's eternal under-song
Of curses and the cries of men gone mad.
Some say the Scheme with love stands luminous,
Some say 't were better back to chaos hurled;
And so 't is what we are that makes for us
The measure and the meaning of the world.
Love built a stately house, where Fortune came,
And spinning fancies, she was heard to say
That her fine cobwebs did support the frame,
Whereas they were supported by the same;
But Wisdom quickly swept them all away.
The Pleasure came, who, liking not the fashion,
Began to make balconies, terraces,
Till she had weakened all by alteration;
But reverend laws, and many a proclomation
Reforméd all at length with menaces.
Then entered Sin, and with that sycamore
Whose leaves first sheltered man from drought and dew,
Working and winding slily evermore,
The inward walls and summers cleft and tore;
But Grace shored these, and cut that as it grew.
Then Sin combined with death in a firm band,
To raze the building to the very floor;
Which they effected,--none could them withstand;
But Love and Grace took Glory by the hand,
And built a braver palace than before.
1     I saw Eternity the other night,
2     Like a great ring of pure and endless light,
3         All calm, as it was bright;
4     And round beneath it, Time in hours, days, years,
5         Driv'n by the spheres
6     Like a vast shadow mov'd; in which the world
7         And all her train were hurl'd.
8     The doting lover in his quaintest strain
9         Did there complain;
10   Near him, his lute, his fancy, and his flights,
11       Wit's sour delights,
12   With gloves, and knots, the silly snares of pleasure,
13       Yet his dear treasure
14   All scatter'd lay, while he his eyes did pour
15       Upon a flow'r.
16   The darksome statesman hung with weights and woe,
17   Like a thick midnight-fog mov'd there so slow,
18       He did not stay, nor go;
19   Condemning thoughts (like sad eclipses) scowl
20       Upon his soul,
21   And clouds of crying witnesses without
22       Pursued him with one shout.
23   Yet digg'd the mole, and lest his ways be found,
24       Work'd under ground,
25   Where he did clutch his prey; but one did see
26       That policy;
27   Churches and altars fed him; perjuries
28       Were gnats and flies;
29   It rain'd about him blood and tears, but he
30       Drank them as free.
31   The fearful miser on a heap of rust
32   Sate pining all his life there, did scarce trust
33       His own hands with the dust,
34   Yet would not place one piece above, but lives
35       In fear of thieves;
36   Thousands there were as frantic as himself,
37       And hugg'd each one his pelf;
38   The downright epicure plac'd heav'n in sense,
39       And scorn'd pretence,
40   While others, slipp'd into a wide excess,
41       Said little less;
42   The weaker sort slight, trivial wares enslave,
43       Who think them brave;
44   And poor despised Truth sate counting by
45       Their victory.
46   Yet some, who all this while did weep and sing,
47   And sing, and weep, soar'd up into the ring;
48       But most would use no wing.
49   O fools (said I) thus to prefer dark night
50       Before true light,
51   To live in grots and caves, and hate the day
52       Because it shews the way,
53   The way, which from this dead and dark abode
54       Leads up to God,
55   A way where you might tread the sun, and be
56       More bright than he.
57   But as I did their madness so discuss
58       One whisper'd thus,
59   "This ring the Bridegroom did for none provide,
60         But for his bride."
See, the world for youth prepares,
Harlot-like, her gaudy snares!
Pleasures round her seem to wait,
But 'tis all a painted cheat.
Rash and unsuspecting youth
Thinks to find thee always smooth,
Always kind, till better taught,
By experience dearly bought.
So the calm, but faithless sea
(Lively emblem, world, of thee)
Tempts the shepherd from the shore
Foreign regions to explore.
While no wrinkled wave is seen,
While the sky remains serene,
Fill'd with hopes, and golden schemes
Of a storm he little dreams.
But ere long the tempest raves,
Then he trembles at the waves;
Wishes then he had been wise,
But too late—he sinks and dies.
Hapless thus, are they, vain world,
Soon on rocks of ruin hurl'd,
Who admiring thee, untry'd,
Court thy pleasure. wealth, or pride.
Such a shipwreck had been mine,
Had not Jesus (name divine!)
Sav'd me with a mighty hand,
And restor'd my soul to land.
Now, with gratitude I raise
Ebenezers to his praise;
Now my rash pursuits are o'er,
I can trust thee, world, no more.
Wee falsely think it due unto our friends,
That we should grieve for their too early ends:
He that surveys the world with serious eys,
And stripps Her from her grosse and weak disguise,
Shall find 'tis injury to mourn their fate;
He only dy's untimely who dy's Late.
For if 'twere told to children in the womb,
To what a stage of mischief they must come
Could they foresee with how much toile and sweat
Men court that Guilded nothing, being Great;
What paines they take not to be what they seem,
Rating their blisse by others false esteem,
And sacrificing their content, to be
Guilty of grave and serious Vanity;
How each condition hath its proper Thorns,
And what one man admires, another Scorns;
How frequently their happiness they misse,
And so farre from agreeing what it is,
That the same Person we can hardly find,
Who is an houre together in a mind;
Sure they would beg a period of their breath,
And what we call their birth would count their Death.
Mankind is mad; for none can live alone
Because their joys stand by comparison:
And yet they quarrell at Society,
And strive to kill they know not whom, nor why,
We all live by mistake, delight in Dreames,
Lost to ourselves, and dwelling in extreames;
Rejecting what we have, though ne're so good,
And prizing what we never understood.
compar'd to our boystrous inconstancy
Tempests are calme, and discords harmony.
Hence we reverse the world, and yet do find
The God that made can hardly please our mind.
We live by chance, and slip into Events;
Have all of Beasts except their Innocence.
The soule, which no man's pow'r can reach, a thing
That makes each women Man, each man a King.
Doth so much loose, and from its height so fall,
That some content to have no Soule at all.
"Tis either not observ'd, or at the best
By passion fought withall, by sin deprest.
Freedome of will (god's image) is forgot;
And if we know it, we improve it not.
Our thoughts, thou nothing can be more our own,
Are still unguided, verry seldom known.
Time 'scapes our hands as water in a Sieve,
We come to dy ere we begin to Live.
Truth, the most suitable and noble Prize,
Food of our spirits, yet neglected ly's.
Errours and shaddows ar our choice, and we
Ow our perdition to our Own decree.
If we search Truth, we make it more obscure;
And when it shines, we can't the Light endure;
For most men who plod on, and eat, and drink,
Have nothing less their business then to think;
And those few that enquire, how small a share
Of Truth they fine! how dark their notions are!
That serious evenness that calmes the Brest,
And in a Tempest can bestow a rest,
We either not attempt, or elce [sic] decline,
By every triffle snatch'd from our design.
(Others he must in his deceits involve,
Who is not true unto his own resolve.)
We govern not our selves, but loose the reins,
Courting our bondage to a thousand chains;
And with as man slaverys content,
As there are Tyrants ready to Torment,
We live upon a Rack, extended still
To one extreme, or both, but always ill.
For since our fortune is not understood,
We suffer less from bad then from the good.
The sting is better drest and longer lasts,
As surfeits are more dangerous than fasts.
And to compleat the misery to us,
We see extreames are still contiguous.
And as we run so fast from what we hate,
Like Squibs on ropes, to know no middle state;
So (outward storms strengthen'd by us) we find
Our fortune as disordred as our mind.
But that's excus'd by this, it doth its part;
A treacherous world befits a treacherous heart.
All ill's our own; the outward storms we loath
Receive from us their birth, or sting, or both;
And that our Vanity be past a doubt,
'Tis one new vanity to find it out.
Happy are they to whom god gives a Grave,
And from themselves as from his wrath doeth save.
'Tis good not to be born; but if we must,
The next good is, soone to return to Dust:
When th'uncag'd soule, fled to Eternity,
Shall rest and live, and sing, and love, and See.
Here we but crawle and grope, and play and cry;
Are first our own, then others Enemy:
But there shall be defac'd both stain and score,
For time, and Death, and sin shall be no more.
1     They are all gone into the world of light!
2         And I alone sit ling'ring here;
3     Their very memory is fair and bright,
4         And my sad thoughts doth clear.
5     It glows and glitters in my cloudy breast,
6         Like stars upon some gloomy grove,
7     Or those faint beams in which this hill is drest,
8         After the sun's remove.
9     I see them walking in an air of glory,
10       Whose light doth trample on my days:
11   My days, which are at best but dull and hoary,
12       Mere glimmering and decays.
13   O holy Hope! and high Humility,
14       High as the heavens above!
15   These are your walks, and you have show'd them me
16       To kindle my cold love.
17   Dear, beauteous Death! the jewel of the just,
18       Shining nowhere, but in the dark;
19   What mysteries do lie beyond thy dust
20       Could man outlook that mark!
21   He that hath found some fledg'd bird's nest, may know
22       At first sight, if the bird be flown;
23   But what fair well or grove he sings in now,
24       That is to him unknown.
25   And yet as angels in some brighter dreams
26       Call to the soul, when man doth sleep:
27   So some strange thoughts transcend our wonted themes
28       And into glory peep.
29   If a star were confin'd into a tomb,
30       Her captive flames must needs burn there;
31   But when the hand that lock'd her up, gives room,
32       She'll shine through all the sphere.
33   O Father of eternal life, and all
34       Created glories under thee!
35   Resume thy spirit from this world of thrall
36       Into true liberty.
37   Either disperse these mists, which blot and fill
38       My perspective still as they pass,
39   Or else remove me hence unto that hill,
40       Where I shall need no glass.
This is my letter to the world,
That never wrote to me,-
The simple news that Nature told,
With tender majesty
Her message is committed
To hands I cannot see;
For love of her, sweet countrymen,
Judge tenderly of me!
501
This World is not Conclusion.
A Species stands beyond—
Invisible, as Music—
But positive, as Sound—
It beckons, and it baffles—
Philosophy—don't know—
And through a Riddle, at the last—
Sagacity, must go—
To guess it, puzzles scholars—
To gain it, Men have borne
Contempt of Generations
And Crucifixion, shown—
Faith slips—and laughs, and rallies—
Blushes, if any see—
Plucks at a twig of Evidence—
And asks a Vane, the way—
Much Gesture, from the Pulpit—
Strong Hallelujahs roll—
Narcotics cannot still the Tooth
That nibbles at the soul—
A famished, ill-clad beggar stands
Amidst some barking dogs!
All searching through the garbage-dump
For left-over food, fast;
Each taking turns at emptying,
The things inedible;
Their hunger-pangs can drive them mad;
Will Dame Luck smile on them?
His eyes keep straining just for food,
On plantain-leaves by luck;
The scorching sun can’t bother him,
Nor can the stench within;
His pangs of hunger goads him on
To lick the residue;
His face keeps smiling when he sees,
A morsel of cooked grain!
The dogs are happy biting bones,
Though meat, they never meet;
He’s back to work upon the pile
And sorts the rocks from leaves;
There’s silence excepting the noise
Of scrambling for food found;
The garbage-dump’s a blessed spot,
Where man and beast share food!
"I Have sacrificed all," thou sayest, "that man I might succor;
Vain the attempt; my reward was persecution and hate."
Shall I tell thee, my friend, how I to humor him manage?
Trust the proverb!  I ne'er have been deceived by it yet.
Thou canst not sufficiently prize humanity's value;
Let it be coined in deed as it exists in thy breast.
E'en to the man whom thou chancest to meet in life's narrow pathway,
If he should ask it of thee, hold forth a succoring hand.
But for rain and for dew, for the general welfare of mortals,
Leave thou Heaven to care, friend, as before, so e'en now.
IF the butterfly courted the bee,
And the owl the porcupine;
If churches were built in the sea,
And three times one was nine;
If the pony rode his master,
If the buttercups ate the cows,
If the cats had the dire disaster
To be worried, sir, by the mouse;
If mamma, sir, sold the baby
To a gypsy for half a crown;
If a gentleman, sir, was a lady,—
The world would be Upside-down!
If any or all of these wonders
Should ever come about,
I should not consider them blunders,
For I should be Inside-out!
Chorus
Ba-ba, black wool,
Have you any sheep?
Yes, sir, a packfull,
Creep, mouse, creep!
Four-and-twenty little maids
Hanging out the pie,
Out jump’d the honey-pot,
Guy Fawkes, Guy!
Cross latch, cross latch,
Sit and spin the fire;
When the pie was open’d,
The bird was on the brier!
527
To put this World down, like a Bundle—
And walk steady, away,
Requires Energy—possibly Agony—
'Tis the Scarlet way
Trodden with straight renunciation
By the Son of God—
Later, his faint Confederates
Justify the Road—
Flavors of that old Crucifixion—
Filaments of Bloom, Pontius Pilate sowed—
Strong Clusters, from Barabbas' Tomb—
Sacrament, Saints partook before us—
Patent, every drop,
With the Brand of the Gentile Drinker
Who indorsed the Cup—
Truly My Satan thou art but a Dunce
And dost not know the Garment from the Man
Every Harlot was a Virgin once
Nor canst thou ever change Kate into Nan
Tho thou art Worship'd by the Names Divine
Of Jesus & Jehovah thou art still
The Son of Morn in weary Nights decline
The lost Travellers Dream under the Hill
830
To this World she returned.
But with a tinge of that—
A Compound manner,
As a Sod
Espoused a Violet,
That chiefer to the Skies
Than to himself, allied,
Dwelt hesitating, half of Dust,
And half of Day, the Bride.
Try to praise the mutilated world.
Remember June's long days,
and wild strawberries, drops of wine, the dew.
The nettles that methodically overgrow
the abandoned homesteads of exiles.
You must praise the mutilated world.
You watched the stylish yachts and ships;
one of them had a long trip ahead of it,
while salty oblivion awaited others.
You've seen the refugees heading nowhere,
you've heard the executioners sing joyfully.
You should praise the mutilated world.
Remember the moments when we were together
in a white room and the curtain fluttered.
Return in thought to the concert where music flared.
You gathered acorns in the park in autumn
and leaves eddied over the earth's scars.
Praise the mutilated world
and the grey feather a thrush lost,
and the gentle light that strays and vanishes
and returns.
Translated by Renata Gorczynski
Anonymous submission.
Wake not for the world-heard thunder,
Nor the chimes that earthquakes toll;
Stars may plot in heaven with planet,
Lightning rive the rock of granite,
Tempest tread the oakwood under,
Fear not you for flesh or soul;
Marching, fighting, victory past,
Stretch your limbs in peace at last.
Stir not for the soldier's drilling,
Nor the fever nothing cures;
Throb of drum and timbal's rattle
Call but men alive to battle,
And the fife with death-notes filling
Screams for blood--but not for yours.
Times enough you bled your best;
Sleep on now, and take your rest.
Sleep, my lad; the French have landed,
London's burning, Windsor's down.
Clasp your cloak of earth about you;
We must man the ditch without you,
March unled and fight short-handed,
Charge to fall and swim to drown.
Duty, friendship, bravery o'er,
Sleep away, lad; wake no more.
We may roam through this world, like a child at a feast,
Who but sips of a sweet, and then flies to the rest;
And, when pleasure begins to grow dull in the east,
We may order our wings and be off to the west:
But if hearts that feel, and eyes that smile,
Are the dearest gifts that heaven supplies,
We never need leave our own green isle,
For sensitive hearts, and for sun-bright eyes.
Then, remember, wherever your goblet is crown'd,
Through this world, whether eastward or westward you roam,
When a cup to the smile of dear woman goes round,
Oh! remember the smile which adorns her at home.
In England, the garden of Beauty is kept
By a dragon of prudery placed within call;
But so oft this unamiable dragon has slept,
That the garden's but carelessly watch'd after all.
Oh! they want the wild sweet-briery fence
Which round the flowers of Erin dwells;
Which warns the touch, while winning the sense,
Nor charms us least when it most repels.
Then remember, wherever your goblet is crown'd,
Through this world, whether eastward or westward you roam,
When a cup to the smile of dear woman goes round,
Oh! remember the smile that adorns her at home.
In France, when the heart of a woman sets sail,
On the ocean of wedlock its fortune to try,
Love seldom goes far in a vessel so frail,
But just pilots her off, and then bids her good-bye.
While the daughters of Erin keep the boy,
Ever smiling beside his faithful oar,
Through billows of woe, and beams of joy,
The same as he look's when he left the shore.
Then remember, wherever your goblet is crown'd,
Through this world, whether eastward or westward you roam,
When a cup to the smile of dear woman goes round,
Oh! remember the smile that adorns her at home.
When you were born in this world
Everyone laughed while you cried
Conduct NOT yourself in manner such
That they laugh when you are gone
Kabir's mind got cleansed like the holy Ganges water
Now everyone follows, saying Kabir Kabir
Guru the washer man, disciple is the cloth
The name of God liken to the soap
Wash the mind on foundation firm
To realize the glow of Truth
Alive one sees, alive one knows
Thus crave for salvation when full of life
Alive you did not cut the noose of binding actions
Hoping liberation with death!
Inexpressible is the story of Love
It cannot be revealed by words
Like the dumb eating sweet-meat
Only smiles, the sweetness he cannot tell
Worry is the bandit that eats into one's heart
What the doctor can do, what remedy to impart?
Says Kabir
Don't be so proud and vain
Looking at your high mansion
Death makes one lie on bare land
And grass will grow thereon
Says Kabir
Don't be so proud and vain
The clutches of Time are dark
Who knows where shall it kill
Whether at home or abroad
Says Kabir
By my doing nothing happens
What I don't does come to pass
If anything happens as if my doing
Then truly it is done by someone else
Like the pupil in the eyes
The Lord resides inside
Ignorant do not know this fact
They search Him outside
First the pangs of separation
Next grows the thirst for Love
Says Kabir then only hope
The union to materialize
When I cast a look around the world,
I marvel at what I see and hear.
Why, I ponder , is the world at war?
Why, I lament, should the world know no peace?
You world Powers! Put your ammunition in its arsenal.
Enough of nuclear wars, enough of threats of war.
The Lilliputian Third World walking under your Gangatuan feet,
Was created by God just as God created you.
Your duty, it is to help it outgrow its groping stage.
There should be no re-occurrence of the war in Vietnam,
No more fracas in Surinam,
No repeat performance of the Soweto imbroglio.
Rwanda should not be put asunder.
Enough of the Somalia saga.
Ethiopia and Liberia experience we want no more.
Let peace reign in Bosnia Herzegovina.
'No' to war I say, 'Yes' to peace I maintain.
War does no good to anyone.
War kills, war maims, war annihilates.
Turmoil and tribulation all characterize war.
Famine and deprivation are all babies of war.
Wars tear families apart, refugees abound everywhere.
Many are rendered homeless, a lot become hopeless.
Causalities of war in the scenes of ravage and wreck,
Letter the ground in their hundreds and thousands.
Let's have a new world order.
Let's make peace our watchword.
Let peace reign supreme in the world.
Peace brings joy; peace puts the mind at rest.
The world must embrace peace, not war.
The world must live, in peace, not in pieces.
'No' to war I say, 'Yes' to peace I maintain.
WORLD, take good notice, silver stars fading,
Milky hue ript, weft of white detaching,
Coals thirty-eight, baleful and burning,
Scarlet, significant, hands off warning,
Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores.
World was in the face of the beloved--,
but suddenly it poured out and was gone:
world is outside, world can not be grasped.
Why didn't I, from the full, beloved face
as I raised it to my lips, why didn't I drink
world, so near that I couldn't almost taste it?
Ah, I drank. Insatiably I drank.
But I was filled up also, with too much
world, and, drinking, I myself ran over.
Translated by Stephen Mitchell